^°-': 


NEW    CENTURY    EDITION. 


THE  HOUSEHOLD 

COOK  BOOK 


A  Complete  and  Comprehensive  Collection 
of  New,  Choice  and  Thoroughly  Tested 
Recipes,  including  every  Department  of 
Domestic  Cookery,  especially  adapted  for 
Household  Use.  ==^=^===^=== 
Also  containing  Medical  and  Toilet  Hints, 
Invalid  Cookery,  Plans  for  Setting  the 
Table,  Carving  and  a  great  variety  of 
Information  invaluable  to  every  Housewife 

Edited  by  JAMES  B.  SMILEY 


PROFUSELY  ILLUSTRATED. 


CHICAGO : 

FREDERICK  J.  DRAKE  AND  COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS 


THE  LIBRARY  OF 
CONGRESS, 

T*o  Copies   Received 

m.   U  1902 

nPVRIQHT    ENTRY 

CLASS  6LXX0.  No, 

127/75- 

COPY  B. 


ii 


4 


COPYRIGHT,  1902,  BY  SMILEY  PUBLISHING  COMPANY 

All  Rights  Reserved. 


Copyri;.'ht,  1894,  by  James  B,  Smiley,    Copyright, 

1895, 1896  and  1900  by  Smiley  Publishing  Company. 

All  Rights  Reserved. 


PREFACE. 


ejj^te   ™ 


following  pages  are  the  result  of  many  years  of  experi- 
ment, investigation  and  study.  We  have  aimed  to  prepare 
work  for  the  use  of  housekeepers  on  a  more  thorough  and 
comprehensive  plan  than  has  been  heretofore  attempted. 
As  the  book  is  intended  for  the  use  of  the  average  housekeeper,  there 
is  nothing  in  it  which  cannot  be  easily  understood  by  any  person  of 
ordinary  intelligence,  for  we  have  taken  much  pains  to  present  the 
results  of  modern  scientific  investigations  in  a  clear  and  simple  way, 
avoiding,  as  far  as  possible,  the  use  of  technical  terms. 

Most  of  the  household  books  in  current  use  give  the  processes  for 
doing  things  merely,  with  no  attempt  to  explain  the  reasons  for  the 
processes  or  the  principles  which  underlie  them.  We  also  give,  as 
clearly  as  possible,  the  most  detailed  directions  in  all  our  recipes,  but 
we  do  not  stop  there,  as  we  think  any  one  can  work  more  intelli- 
gently by  understanding  not  only  how  to  do  a  certain  thing,  but  also 
why  it  is  done  one  way  rather  than  another,  and  the  principles  which 
underlie  the  process.  For  this  reason,  throughout  the  work,  we 
systematically  explain  principles  as  well  as  processes.  We  have  long 
felt  that  a  sad  defect  in  most  cook  books  is  their  utter  failure  to 
explain  those  simple,  fundamental  principles  which  every  cook  should, 
if  possible,  understand.  If  these  principles  are  once  thoroughly 
understood  the  mystery  and  uncertainty  of  kitchen  operations  will 
vanish,  and  cooking  will  simply  be  adopting  certain  clearly  under- 
stood methods  to  produce  certain  definite  results,  and  success  will 
always  follow. 

For  years  we  have  been  gathering  material  for  this  book,  resulting 
in  the  accumulation  of  a  great  mass  of  recipes.  These  have  been 
tested  and  culled,  and  in  making  selections  our  rule  has  been  to 
choose  those  which  were  most  simple  and  economical,  because  the 
book  is  primarily  designed  for  the  use  of  the  masses,  whose  means 
are  always  limited,  and  we  aim  to  meet  their  every  day  wants, 
although  we  present  also  an  ample  number  of  more  elaborate  recipes 
suitable  for  special  occasions.  Our  endeavor  has  been  to  make 
the  collection  as  complete  and  comprehensive  as  possible,  and  to  give 
new,  choice,  and  well-tested  recipes  in  every  department  of  house- 
hold cookery. 

s 


4  PREFACE 

The  "Time  Tables  for  Cooking,"  and  also  the  "Time  to  Cook" 
given  with  recipes  throughout  the  book,  will  be  very  convenient  and 
helpful  to  our  readers  and  this  is  a  feature  which  is  lacking  in  most 
other  cook  books.     Its  preparation  has  cost  us  much  labor. 

In  the  chapter  on  "Cake"  we  have  adopted  a  new  arrangement  of 
the  recipes,  and  used  an  exceptionally  large  and  clear  type  which  for 
practical  kitchen  use  will  be  found  a  great  convenience.  The  type 
used  throughout  the  book  is  large,  clear  and  new,  and  the  ease  with 
which  it  can  be  read  will  be  appreciated  by  busy  housewives. 

The  colored  plates  and  numerous  illustrations  with  which  the  book 
is  embellished  have  required  much  labor  and  expense,  and  they  will 
make  many  of  the  subjects  much  clearer  than  any  wholly  verbal  de- 
scription could  possibly  do. 

In  preparing  this  work  we  have  constantly  had  four  main  objects 
in  view.  (1)  To  secure  the  fullest,  latest,  and  most  reliable  informa- 
tion possible  on  the  subjects  treated.  (2)  To  explain  processes  and 
methods  for  saving  time  and  labor,  for  the  average  housewife  is 
sadly  overworked  and  her  time  and  strength  are  of  the  utmost  value. 
(8)  To  select  the  best  and  most  economical  recipes;  and  (4)  to  point 
out  ways  to  prevent  waste. 

The  effort  of  the  editor  has  been  to  produce  a  thoroughly  reliable 
and  a  plain  and  practical  guide  to  housekeeping  in  all  its  branches, 
which  no  housewife  can  afford  to  do  without. 

The  book  has  not  been  written  by  any  one  individual,  but  many 
pens  have  been  employed  more  or  less  in  its  preparation. 

The  book  will  certainly  shed  much  needed  light  on  the  problems 
which  confront  and  often  harass  housekeepers,  explain  the  funda- 
mental principles  which  underlie  their  work,  and  present  a  mass  of 
recipes  which  will  materially  aid  them  in  their  labors. 

James  B.    Smiley,  Editor. 


ORDER  OF  DEPARTMENTS. 


Table  Showing  the  Compar- 
ative Amount  of  Nutriment 

in  Different  Foods 7,  8 

Table  Showing  the  Compar- 
ative Amount  of  Nutriment 
which  25  cents  will  Buy 
when  Invested  in  Differ- 
ent Foods 9,10 

Tables  of  Weights  and 

Measures 11  to  IB 

Time  Tables  for  Cook- 
ing   14  to  16 

Table  of  Proportions . .  17 

Altering  Recipes 18 

Intoxicating  Liquors . .  18 

Soups 19  to  47 

Fish 48  to  81 

ShelMsh........^ 82  to  94 

Sauces  for  Fish,  Shells 

Fish  and  Meats  ...  95  to  110 

Meats Ill  to  164 

Beef 127  to  135 

Veal 135  to  140 

Mutton  and  Lamb .  140  to  143 

Pork 144  to  148 

Poultry 148  to  158 

Game 158  to  164 

Cutting  up  and  Curing 

Meats 165  to  175 

Hash  and  Croquettes  176  to  183 

Eggs 184  to  191 

Milk,    Butter    and 

Cheese 192  to  203 

Salads 203  to  215 

Vegetables 216  to  255 

Bread,  Biscuit,  etc. .  .256  to  294 

Bread 256  to  272 

Biscuit 273,  274 

Buns,  Rusks,  Rolls, 

etc 274  to  277 

Johnny      Cakes, 

Pones,  etc 277  to  279 

Gems,       Muffins, 
Scones,  etc 280  to  283 


Bread,   Biscuit,    etc. 
(Continued.) 

Griddle  Cakes 283  to  285 

Waffles 285  to  286 

Mushes,  etc 286  to  289 

Toast 289,  290 

Sandwiches 290  to  294 

Pastry 295  to  314 

Pies 300  to  311 

Tarts 312  to  313 

Shortcakes 313  to  314 

Puddings  and  Dump- 
lings  315  to  337 

Doughnuts  and  Frit- 
ters   338  to  345 

Cake 346  to  408 

Layer  Cakes 359  to  372 

Loaf  Cakes 372  to  390 

Frosting  and  Icing  391  to  398 
Small  Cakes,  Cook- 
ies,     Jumbles, 
Snaps,  etc 398  to  408 

Desserts ....409  to  433 

Ice  Cream,  Water  Ices 

and  Sherbets 434  to  446 

Home  Candy  Making  457  to  463 

Fruits  and  Nuts 464  to  487 

Fresh   Fruits    and 

Nuts 465  to  473 

Dried  Fruits 473  to  476 

Cooked  Fruits 477  to  485 

Compotes 485  to  487 

Jams,  Jellies,  Marma- 
lades and  Preserves  488  to  517 

Jellies 491  to  496 

Marmalades 496  to  499 

Fruit  Cheeses 499  to  500 

Fruit  Pastes 500  to  502 

Jams 502  to  504 

Preserves. 505  to  517 

Canning  Fruits,  Vege- 
tables, etc 518  to  529 

Pickles,  Catsups,  Soys, 
etc 530  to  549 


OEDER  OF  DEPARTMENTS 


Pickles,  Catsups,  Soys, 
etc.  (Continued). 

Sour  Pickles 531  to  540 

Sweet  Pickles 540  to  544 

Spiced  Fruit 544  to  545 

Catsups  and  Soys.. 546  to  549 

Yinegar 550  to  563 

Beverages 554  to  572 

Syrups 5Y0  to  572 

Invalid  Cookery 573  to  588 


Carving 589  to  602 

The  Table  and  Its  Ap- 
pointments   603  to  611 

Setting  the  Table. .  ..602  to  609 
The  Chafing  Dish.. .  .612  to  621 

Medical  Hints 622  to  630 

Toilet  Hints 631  to  632 

Glossary 633  to  638 

Index 639  to  656 


TABLE  SHOWING  THE  COMPAKATIVE  AMOUNT  OF  NUTRIENTS  IN  DIFFEB- 
ENT  FOODS. 


The  following  table  will  show  the  comparative  amount  of  nutrients,  after  evaporating 
the  water,  remaining  in  the  edible  portions  of  the  more  important  articles  of  food,  i.  e.,  after 
removing  the  refuse,  like  bones,  shell,  skin,  etc.  The  nutritive  value  of  the  different  foods, 
and  the  elements  of  which  they  are  composed,  are  explained  more  fully  elsewhere,  but 
this  table  will  bring  clearly  before  the  eye,  at  a  glance,  the  striking  difference  in  the  nutri- 
tive value  of  different  foods.  In  vegetables,  one  of  their  great  benefits  to  the  system  is  de- 
rived from  the  potash  and  other  salts  which  they  contain,  as  we  elsewhere  explain,  and 
these  make  little  showing  in  a  table  like  this,  but  the  table  will  serve  to  give  some  idea  of 
the  value  as  food  of  different  articles.  There  is  a  lamentable  ignorance  at  the  present 
time  regarding  the  true  value  to  the  system  of  different  articles  of  food,  causing  much  loss, 
which  is  especially  burdensome  to  poor  people. 


Beef,  Brisket  of - 

Beef,  Dried, - 

Beef,  Fiank  of - 

Beef,  Flank,  Corned.- 

Beef,  Neck  of - 

Beef,  Ribsof. - 

Beef,  Shoulder  of. ...  ■ 

Beef,  Sirloin  of - 

Beef,  Round  of - 

Beef,  Liver  of - 

Beef,  Heart  of - 

Beef,  Tongue  of - 

Veal,  Shoulder  of...- 
Mutton,  Breast  of . .  .- 
Mutton,  Flank  of. ...  ■ 

Mutton,  Leg  of - 

Mutton,  Neck  of. ...  - 
Mutton,  Shoulder  of- 

Lamb,  Leg  of ■ 

Lamb,  Loin  of ■ 

Lamb,  Neck  of ■ 

Lamb,  Shoulder  of..- 
Pork,  Shoulder  roast- 
Pork,  fat,  salt - 

Pork,  smoked  ham.." 

Sausage,  Pork ■ 

Tripe,  soused ■ 

Chicken ■ 

Turkey ■ 

Eggs,  Hen's - 

Bass,  black ■ 

Blue  Fish ■ 

Codfish,  fresh - 

Codfish,  salt ■ 

Eel,  salt  water ■ 

Flounder - 

Haddock - 

Haddock,  smoked..  .- 

Halibut,  fresh - 

Halibut,  smoked  ...- 

Herring,  fresh ■ 

Mackerel,  fresh - 

Mackerel,  salted - 

Salmon,  fresh ■ 

Sardines,  canned...  .- 

Trout,  brook - 

Whitefish ■ 

Clams ■ 

Lobsters,  fresh - 

Oysters,  fresh ■ 

Shrimp ■ 


MEATS,  ETC. 


FISH  AND  SHELL-FISH. 


DAIRY  PRODUCTS. 


Milk ■ 

Buttsr - 

Cheese,  fvill  cream..* 
Cheese,  skim  milk..  .■ 
Oleomargarine - 

Asparagus ■ 

Beans,  Lima,  green." 
Beans,  string,  green.- 

Beans,  dried ■ 

Beets ■ 

Cabbage 

Carrots • 

Cauliflower ■ 

Cucumber ■ 

Corn,  sweet,  green  .■ 
Com,  sweet,  canned- 
Egg  Plant - 

Lettuce ■ 

Onions ■ 

Okra ■ 

Peas,  green - 

Peas,  dried  ■ 

Potatoes - 

Potatoes,  sweet - 

Pumpkin - 

Rice ■ 

Spinach ■ 

Squash ■ 

Turnips - 

Tomatoes - 

Barley,  pearl - 

Flour,  graham - 

Flour,  entire  wheat.- 
Flour,  bucKwneat..  .- 

Flovir,  rye - 

Flour,  wheat - 

Cornmeal - 

Oatmeal ■ 

White  hominy ■ 

Buckwheat  farina. .  .- 

Bread,  graham - 

Bread,  rye ■ 

Bread,  wheat - 

Boston  crackers - 

Graham  crackers « 

Oatmeal  crackers - 

Apples ■ 

Bananas - 

Blackberries - 

Cherries ■ 

Cocoanuts - 

Cranberries  m 

Grapes ■ 

Lemons ■ 

Peaches ■ 

Pineapples ■ 

Strawberries ■ 

Watermelon b 

Whortleberries - 

Walnuts _ 


VEGETABLES. 


CEREALS,  ETC. 


FRUITS, 


TABLE  SHOWING   THE    COMPAKATIVE    AMOUNT    OF   NUTRIMENT   "WHIC:^ 
25    CENTS    WILIi    BUY    WHEN    INVESTED    IN    DIEFEKENT    FOODS. 

The  following  table  shows  at  a  glance  the  comparative  amount  of  nntriment 
which  25  cents  will  buy  when  invested  in  different  foods  at  the  ordinary  retail 
prices  in  the  city.  In  studying  the  table,  however,  the  advantage  of  a  variety  in 
food  should  be  borne  in  mind,  as  the  fruits  furnish  the  system  with  acids,  and 
fresh  vegetables  furnish  potash  and  other  salts  which  are  of  the  highest  value.  A 
thorough  knowledge  of  the  nutritive  value  of  foods  will  enable  many  people  to 
make  a  material  saving  in  their  household  expenses. 
MEATS,    ETC. 

Beef,  brisket  of ^..^ ,     ■ ,    ■ 

Beef,  dried ai^_^ 

Beef,  flank  of ■_«---— --^—-i---------™--^™™--™™--™-— 

Beef,  neck  of ^___»_« 

Beef,  ribs  of — i^i— — ™^ 

Beef,  shoulder  of. .  ..„,^b_h,^ 

Beef,  sirloin  of ,■„__, 

Beef,  round  of ■■=■■.■ 

Beef,  liver  of __«__« 

Beef,  heart  of _^.._i_i.i— «i».«— 

Beef,  tongue  of ____^ 

"Veal,  shoulder  of. .  .____■ 
Mutton,  breast  "f 

Mutton,  flank  of. .  n .i,,,  ,  mi,, 

Mutton,  leg  of .^iiii™.— ™i 

Mutton,  neck  of . . . .  .■■■■..■■i.n  f^ -' 

Mutton,  loin  of _^_^_— . 


Mutton.shoulder  of. 

Lamb,  leg  of _ 

Lamb,  loin  of ., 

Lamb,  neck  of „ 

Lamb,  shoulder  of.. 

Pork,  fresh , 

Pork,  fat,  salt 

Pork,  smoked  ham. 

Sausage,  pork , 

Tripe,  soused , 

Chicken , 

Turkey _ 

Hen's  Eggs, „ 


Bluefish.... 

Cod 

Eels 

Flounder . . 
Haddock  .. 
Halibut.... 

Herring 

Mackerel . . 

Perch  

Pickerel  . . . 

Salmon 

Shaa 

Smelts 

Swordfish. 

Trout 

Whitefish  . 

Clams 

Crabs  

Oysters.... 
Lobsters. .. 
Shrimp  .... 


FISH    AND    SHELX,=FISH. 


DAIRY    PBODUCTS. 


Milk 

Butter 

Oleomargarine 

Cheese,  full  cream., 
Cheese,  skim  milk. 


VEGETABLES. 


Asparagus 

Beans,  lima,  green.. 

Beans,  dried 

Beets 

Cabbage 

Carrots ■ 

Cauliflower 

Cucumber 

Com,  sweet,  green. 

Lettuce 

Onions 


Peas,  dried 

Potatoes 

Potatoes,  sweet. 

Pumpkin 

Rhubarb 

Rice 

Spinach 

Squash 

Turnips 

Tomatoes 


Apples. 


Blackberries. 

Cherries 

Cranberries. . 


Grapes 

Lemons 

Pineapples 

Strawberries.. 
Watermelons 


Barley,  pearl.. 
Flour,  graham . 


CEREALS,  ETC. 


Flour,  entire  wheat. 
Flour,  buckwheat.. 

Flour,  rye 

Flour,  wheat , 

Commeal _ 

Oatmeal , 

White  hominy , 

Buckwheat  farina. „ 

Bread,  graham 

Bread,  rye _ 

Bread,  wheat _ 

Boston  crackers..., 
Graham  crackers... 
Oatmeal  crackers.- 


10 


TABLES  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


NoTTOE. — The  standard  of  measure  which  we  have  adopted  in  this  book  is  the 
ordinary  coffee  cup,  which  holds  \^  pint.  Where  not  otherwise  specified,  we  al- 
ways mean  that  by  a  cup.  Of  course  the  size  of  the  cups  and  spoons  in  actual  use 
vary  somewhat,  and  extraordinary  dampness  or  dryness  of  the  materials  will  affect 
their  weight,  but  these  tables  are  as  accurate  as  we  can  make  them.  In  making  up 
any  recipe,  using  the  same  measure  throughout  will  keep  the  proportions  correct. 

Before  measuring  sugar,  meal,  flour,  soda,  salt  and  spices,  they  should  be  sifted. 
Materials  like  baking  powder  or  mustard,  which  have  been  packed,  should  be 
stirred  and  crushed  if  you  do  not  sift  them.    - 

To  get  ^  a  spoonful,  fill  the  spoon,  divide  it  through  the  center  lengthwise, 
and  use  one=half.  To  get  an  even  spoonful  of  any  dry  material,  fill  the  spoon  and 
level  it  off  with  a  knife.  A  heaping  spoonful  is  all  it  will  hold.  To  get  a  spoon- 
ful, fill  the  spoon  and  shake  it  a  little  until  it  is  slightly  rounded  on  top. 

As  a  cup  is  smaller  at  the  bottom  than  at  the  top,  J^  a  cup  does  not  mean  to 


fill  it  3^  the  way  up,  but  a  little  more  than  that.  The  tin  measuring  cups  holding 
3^  pint,  and  divided  into  fourths  and  thirds,  are  the  best  to  use;  they  can  be  pur- 
chased at  tin  or  hardware  stores. 

Throughout  the  work,  to  save  space,  we  drop  off  the  "fnl"  in  such  words  as 
"cupful,"  "tablespoonful,"  etc.,  and  write  simply  "cup,"  "tablespoon,"  etc.  We 
always  mean  full  measure  unless  we  add  the  word  "  heaping,"  or  "  scant." 


COMMON  ARTICLES  OF  FOOD. 

Almonds: — 1    cup,    shelled,    weighs  7 

ounces. 
Babley: — 1   cup   weighs   4  ounces;   I 

tablespoon,  heaped,  3^  ounce.' 
Bbead  cbumbs,  grated: — 1  cup  weighs 

'    2  ounces. 
Buttee: — 1  even  cup,  hard  or  melted, 

weighs  7  ounces;  2 /tiM  cups  weigh 

1  pound;  a  rounded  tablespoon 
weighs  1  ounce;  the  "size  of  an 
^%^  "  weighs  2  ounces. 

Citbon: — 1  cup  of  chopped  weighs  7 

ounces. 
Coffee,    ground: — 4     cups     weigh     1 

pound;    1   cup   weighs    4   ounces; 

2  rounded  tablespoons  weigh  1 
ounce. 

Coenmeal: — 1  even  cup  weighs  IJ^ 
ounces;  a  heaping  tablespoon  i^ 
ounce, 

Coensstaboh: — 1  cup  weighs  5  ounces; 
a  heaping  tablespoon  y^  ounce;  3 
cups  equal  1  pound. 

Cubeants: — 1  cup,  cleaned  and  dried, 
weighs  6  ounces. 

Dates: — 1  cup  weighs  3^  pound. 

Eggs: — 10  eggs,  average  size  (or  9  if 
very  large)  weigh  1  pound;  1  white 
of  egg  weighs  about  1  ounce,  and 
1  yolk  about  1  ounce. 

Figs: — 1  cup  weighs  3^  pound. 

FiiOXTB  (wheat,  well  sifted  always): — 1 
quart,  heaped,  weighs  1  pound; 
1  cup,  level,  weighs  4  ounces,  or  6 
ounces  when  heaped;  4  cups  equal 
1  pound  or  1  quart;  1  tablespoon, 
heaped,  holds  1  ounce;  1  teaspoon, 
heaped,  "%  ounce. 

Labd: — Same  as  butter. 


COMMON  ARTICLES  OF  FOOD  -Continued 

Meat: — 1  solid  cup  of  chopped  meat 
weighs  8  ounces;  a  pint  =  l  pound. 

Nutmegs: — 5  medium  sized  nutmegs 
weigh  1  ounce. 

Peunes: — 1  cup  weighs  3^  pound. 

Raisins: — 1  cup  weighs  '%  pound,  or  8 
ounces. 

Rioe: — 1  cup,  heaped,  weighs  8  ounces; 
1  tablespoon,  heaped,  3^  ounce. 

Salt: — A  "  pinch ''  =  1  saltspoon. 

Sago: — Icup,  heaped,  weighs  8  ounces; 
1  tablespoon,  heaped,  3^  ounce. 

Suet: — Same  as  butter. 

SuGAB,  granulated,  or  dry  brown: — 1 
cup,  heaped,  weighs  8  ounces;  1 
tablespoon,  heaped,  1  ounce.  Pow- 
dered sugar: — 23^  cups  equal  1  lb. 

Tea: — 1  cup,  heaped,  weighs  2  ounces; 
1  tablespoon,  heaped,  weighs  3^ 
ounce;  1  teaspoon,  heaped,  3^ 
ounce. 

Walnuts: — 1  cup,  shelled,  weighs  7 
ounces. 


LIQUIDS. 

Ceeam: — 1    cup     holds    3^    pint    and 

weighs  7  ounces. 
Milk: — 1  cup  holds  Yz  pi^i*'  ^"^^  weighs 

8  ounces. 
Molasses:—!  cup   holds   3^  pint  and 

weighs  12  ounces. 
Vinegab: — 1    cup   holds   3^   pint   and 

weighs  8  ounces. 
Watee: — 1    cup    holds    %     pint     and 


weighs 
pound. 


ounces;    2  cups  weigh  1 


MEASURING  CUPS,  ETC. 

Cup: — 1  cup  holds  2  gills,  or  \/^  pint, 
or  8  ounces  of  liquid;  or  16  table- 
spoons of  liquid;  4  cups  of  liquid 
equal  1  quart;  4  cups  of  flour 
equal  1  quart  or  1  pound;  1  cup 
holds  4  ounces  of  coffee  or  2 
ounces  of  tea. 

Basting  =  spoon: — 4  basting  *  spoons 
make  1  cupful;  1  basting=spoon 
equals  4  tablespoons  or  8  tea- 
spoons. 

Saltspoon: — 4  saltspoons  of  liquid 
equal  1  teaspoon. 

Tablespoon: — 1  tablespoon  holds  3^ 
ounce  of  water;  8  tablespoons 
liquid  make  1  gill;  16  tablespoons 
of  liquid  make  1  cupful;  12  table- 
spoons, or  8  heaping  tablespoons, 
of  dry  material  equal  1  cup;  4 
tablespoons  of  liquid  make  1 
■wineglass;  8  tablespoons  of  liquid 
make  1  gill;  2  rounded  table- 
spoons equal  1  ounce  of  flour  or 
coffee;  1  tablespoon,  heaped,  holds 
3^  ounce  barley,  cornmeal,  corn= 
starch,  ground  spice,  sago,  sugar 
or  coffee,  and  34  ounce  of  tea. 

Teaspoon: — 4  teaspoons  of  liquid  equal 
1  tablespoon;  3  teaspoons  of  dry 
material  equal  1  tablespoon.  1 
teaspoon  holds  34  ounce  of  coffee 
and  %  ounce  of  tea. 

A  TUMBLES,  common  size,  holds  3^ 
pint,  or  8  fluid  ounces,  or  1  cup. 

A  WINE  glass,  common  size,  holds  % 
gill,  or  2  fluid  ounces,  or  %  cup. 


AVOIRDUPOIS  WEIGHT. 

16  drams  (  dr.)  make  1  ounce  (oz.). 

16  ounces  make  1  pound  (R).). 

25  pounds  make  1  quarter  (qr.). 

4   quarters    make    1    hundred  weight 

(cwt.). 
20  hundred  weight  make  1  ton  (T.). 


LIQUID  OR  WINE  MEASURE. 

4  gills  make  1  pint  (pt.). 
2  pints  make  1  quart  (qt.). 
4  quarts  make  1  gallon  (gal.). 
313^  gallons  make  1  barrel  (bbl.). 
63  gallons  make  1  hogshead  (hhd.). 
2  hogsheads  make  1  pipe  or  butt  (pi.). 


DRY  MEASURE. 

2  pints  make  1  quart. 
8  quarts  make  1  peck. 
4  pecks  make  1  bushel. 
8  bushels  make  1  quarter. 


CLOTH    MEASURE, 

234  inches  make  1  nail. 
4  nails  make  3^  yard. 

4  quarters  make  1  yard. 

3  quarters  make  1  Ell  Flemish. 

5  quarters  make  1  Ell  English. 

Cloth  Measure  is  little  used  at  pres- 
ent. In  measuring  goods  sold  by  the 
yard,  it  is  divided  into  halves,  quart- 
ers, eighths  and  sixteenths. 


LINEAR    MEASURE. 

12  inches=^l  foot. 

3  feet  =  l  yard. 

5%  yards=:l  rod  or  pole. 

40  rods  — 1  furlong. 

8  furlongs  =  1  mile. 
3  miles  =  l  league. 

3  barley=corns=l  inch. 

3  inches  =  l  palm. 

4  inches=:l  hand. 

9  inches  =  l  span. 

21.888  inches  =  l  sacred  cubit. 

18  inches  =  l  English  cubit. 

11  feet  =  l  great  cubit. 

6  feet  =  l  fa,hom. 

120  fathoiiij=l  cable's  length. 

6086.7  feet=l  knot. 

3  feet=l  pace. 

1,152%  common  miles  =  l  geographi- 
cal mile. 

3  geographical  miles=l  league. 

60  geographical  miles=:l  degree. 

360  degrees  =  the  circumference  of  the 
globe. 


THE    METRIC    SYSTEM. 

Measures  of  Weights. 

1  milligramme=0.015432  grains. 
1  gramme  =  15.432  grains. 
1  decagramme  =  0.02204G  pounds. 
1  hectogramme  =  0.22046  pounds. 
1  kilogramme=:2.2046  pounds. 
1  myriagramme  =  22.046  pounds. 

Measures  of  Capacity. 
1  millilitre=0.0610  cubic  in.=338  fluid 

oz. 
1  litre  =  1.0567  quarts. 
1  dekalitre  =  2.6417  gallons. 
1     kektolitre  =  26.4175    gallons  =  2.84 

bushels. 
1     kilolitre  =  264.175     gallons  =  2837 

bushels. 

Measures  of  Length. 

1  millimetre=0.03937  inch. 
1  centimetre=:0.3937  inch. 
1  metre  =  39.37  inch. 
1  decametre  =  .32.809  feet. 
1  hectometre= 328.09  feet. 
1  kilometre  =  .6213  mile. 
1  myriametre=6.2138  mile. 


MEDICINAL    TERMS    AND     APOTHECA- 
RIES    WEIGHTS    AND    MEASURES. 


60  minims  (M)  or  drops=l  fluidrachm 

(/  3.) 
8  fluidrachms=l  fluid  ounce  (/ §.) 
16  fluid  ounces=l  pint  (O.) 
8  pints  =  1  gallon  {Cong.) 

Weights. 

20  grains    (gr,    xx)  =  l    scruple  (3   or 

sc.) 
3  scruples  (3    iij)=l     drachm    (3   or 

dr.) 
8  drachms  (3  viij)  =  l  ounce  (§  or  oz.) 
12  ounces  (|  xij)  =  l  pound  (lb.) 

Physicians  in  writing  prescriptions 
use  the  Roman  numerals  instead  of 
figures,  but  the  small  letters  only, 
which  they  precede  by  the  symbols. 
They  write  j  for  i  when  it  terminates 
a  number.  Thus  §  Tij  meaas  7  ounces, 
3  xiy  means  14  scruples,  etc.  R  is  an 
abbreviation  for  recipe,  or  take;  P 
fox  particula,  or  little  part;  q.  s.  quan- 
tity sufficient;  P.  seq.  for  equal  parts; 
q.  p.  as  much  as  you  please;  gr.  for 
grain;  ss.  for  semi;  a,  aa.  for  equal 
quantities;  ii  for  2;  gtt  is  a  drop;  Cong, 
is  an  abbreviation  of  congius,  the  latin 
for  gallon;  O.  for  octarius,  the  latin  for 
one=eighth.  The  minim  is  equal  to  a 
drop  of  water;  a  pint  of  water  weighs 
ft  pound. 


MISCELLANEOUS  TABLES 

COMPRISING    VARIOUS   THINGS 

WORTH  KNOWING. 

Counting. — 12  units  make  a  dozen; 
12  dozen  make  a  gross;  12  gross  make 
a  great  gross.      20  units  make  a  score. 

Papbb. — 24  sheets  make  1  quire;  20 
quires  make  1  ream;  2  reams  make  1 
bundle. 

Books. — A  sheet  of  paper  folded  in 
two  leaves  makes  a  folio  or  4  pages; 
in  4  leaves  a  quarto,  4  to,  or  8  pages; 
in  8  leaves  an  octavo,  8  vo,  or  16 
pages;  in  12  leaves,  a  duodecimo,  12 
mo,  or  24  pages;  in  16  leaves,  a  16 
mo,  or  32  pages;  in  18  leaves  an  18 
mo,  or  36  pages.  These  terms  are 
applied  without  regard  to  the  size  of 
the  sheet  folded,  which  may  vary 
widely. 


MISCELLANEOUS  TABLES 

(Continued.) 

Apples,     dried,     a    bushel=:22   to    28 

lbs.* 
Apples,  green,  a  bushel=50  Ibs.^ 
Beets,  a  bushel=50  to  60  lbs.* 
Barley,  a  bushel=48  Ibs-f 
Beans,  a  bushel=60  lbs.* 
Bran,  a  bushel=20  lbs. 
Buckwheat,  a  bushelr=40  to  52  lbs.* 
Butter,  a  firkin=56  lbs. 
Carrots,  a  bushel=50  to  55  lbs.* 
Charcoal,  a  bushel=:22  lbs. 
Clover  seed,  a  bushel  =  60  lbs. 
Corn,  a  bushel,  shelled  =  56  Ibs.^j" 
Corn,    a    bushel,    unshelled^TO    or  68 

lbs.* 
Cornmeal,  a  bushel=48  Ibs.f 
Cranberries,  a  bushel=33  Ibs.f 
Feathers,  a  bale=about  1  cwt. 
Flaxseed,  a  bushel=56  lbs. 
Fish,  a  quintal  =  100  lbs. 
Fish,  a  barrel=200  lbs. 
Flour,  a  barrel=196  lbs. 
Hempseed,  a  bushel=44  lbs. 
Hickory=nuts,  a  bushel=60  lbs. 
Honey,  a  gal]on  =  12  lbs. 
Meat,  a  stone=80  lbs. 
Molasses,  a  hogshead  =  130tol50  gals.* 
Oats,  a  bushel=  32  Ibs.j 
Onions,  a  bushel=:48  to  57  lbs.* 
Parsnips,  a  bushel  =  155  lbs.| 
Peaches,  dried,  a  bushel=28  to  33  lbs.* 
Peas,  dried,  a  bushel=60  lbs. 
Peas,  in  pod,  a  bushel=:32  lbs.* 
Popcorn,  a  bushel=70  lbs. 
Potatoes,  a  bushel=60  lbs. 
Potatoes,  sweet,  a  bushel=50  lbs.* 
Pork,  a  barrel=200  lbs. 
Rice,  a  barrel=600  lbs. 
Raisins,  a  barrel  =  112  lbs. 
Rye,  a  bushel  =  56  lbs. 
Salt,  a  barrel=280  lbs. 
Salt,  a  bushelrr:70  lbs. 
Soap,  a  barrel=256  lbs. 
Soap,  a  box  =  56  lbs. 
Sugar,  a  barrel=200  to  250  lbs.* 
Tea,  a  chest  =  60  to  84  lbs.* 
Timothy  seed,  a  bushel=45  lbs."}" 
Tobacco,  a  hhd.  =  168  lbs. 
Turnips,  a  bushel  =  55  Ibs-t 
Wheat,  a  bushel=r60  lbs. 
Wood,  a  tod  =  28  lbs. 


■f"  In  most  states,  but  varies. 
*  Varying  in  difl'erent  states. 


DEGREES  OF  HEAT  FROM  FUEL. 

Coal  produces  1000°  F.;  wood  (hard) 
800°  to  900°;  charcoal (ordinary) 700°; 
charcoal  (willow)  600°. 


TIME  TABLES  FOR  COOKING. 

TIME  TO  COOK  MEATS. 

Beef,  brisket  of,  boiled  gently,  about  30  minutes  per  lb. 

Beef,  corned,  boiled  gently,  about  31  minutes  per  lb. 

Beef,  fillet  of,  rare,  in  moderate  oven,  |  to  1  hour. 

Beef,  rib=roast,  rolled,  rare,  in  moderate  oven,  10  minutes  per  lb. 

Beef,  sirloin,  roasted  in  oven,  rather  underdone,  9  minutes  per  lb. 

Mutton,  leg  of,  roasted,  rather  rare,  10  minutes  per  lb. 

Mutton,  loin  of,  roasted,  rare,  9  minutes  per  lb. 

Mutton,  saddle  of,  roasted,  rare,  10  minutes  per  lb. 

Mutton,  shoulder,  staffed,  roasted,  well  done,  16  minutes  per  lb. 

Mutton,  leg  of,  boiled,  gently,  17  minutes  per  lb. 

Veal,  fillet  of,  roasted  in  slow  oven,  well  done,  20  minutes  per  lb. 

Veal,  loin  of,  roasted  in  slow  oven,  well  done,  17  minutes  per  lb. 

Veal,  shoulder,  stuffed,  roasted  in  slow  oven,  well  done,  20  minutes 

per  lb. 
Pork,  leg  of,  roasted  in  slow  oven,  well  done,  20  minutes  per  lb. 
Pork,  loin  of,  roasted  in  slow  oven,  well  done,  18  minutes  per  lb. 
Pork,  shoulder  of,  roasted  in  slow  oven,  well  done,  20  minutes  per  lb. 
Liver,  roasted,  well  done,  in  moderate  oven,  about  2  hours. 
Bacon,  boiled  gently,  15  minutes  per  lb. 
Ham,  boiled  gently,  20  minutes  per  lb. 
Tripe,  boiled,  nearly  5  hours. 

Meat  for  bouillon,  simmer  gently,  35  minutes  per  lb. 
Tongue,  salted,  boiled,  3  to  4  hours. 

TIME  TO  COOK  POULTKY,  ETC. 

Chicken,  boiled  gently,  20  minutes  per  lb. 

Chicken,  roasted  in  oven,  20  minutes  per  lb. 

Duck,  baked  in  hot  oven,  20  to  30  minutes. 

Duck,  roasted,  full  growth,  f  to  1  hour;  duckling  25  to  35  minutes. 

Fowl,  old,  boil  gently,  20  to  80  minutes  per  lb. 

Fowl,  old,  roasted,  20  to  30  minutes  per  lb. 

Goose,  roast,  1  to  If  hours,  according  to  size. 

Grouse,  roasted  in  oven,  30  to  35  minutes. 

Partridge,  roasted  in  oven,  25  to  35  minutes. 

Pigeons,  roasted,  20  to  30  minutes. 

Prairie  Chicken,  broiled,  4  to  6  minutes. 

Quail,  broiled,  4  to  6  minutes. 

Kabbit,  roasted  in  oven,  -J  to  f  hour. 

Turkey,  boiled  gently,  20  minutes  per  lb. 

Turkey,  roasted  in  oven,  3  hours  for  an  8  lb.  turkey. 

Venison,  haunch  of,  roasted,  rare,  10  minutes  per  lb. 

Venison,  saddle  of,  roasted,  rare,  10  minutes  per  lb. 

TI]\IE  TO  COOK  VEGETABLES. 

Artichokes,  globe,  boiled,  ^  to  1  hour,  according  to  age,  etc. 
"  Jerusalem,  boiled,  ^  to  ^  hour,  according  to  size. 

Asparagus,  boiled,  15  to  25  minutes. 
Beans,  shelled,  boiled,  1  hour  or  more  according  to  age. 
Beans,  shelled,  baked,  8  to  10  hours  in  moderate  oven. 


TIME  TO  COOK  VEGETABLES— (Continued.) 

Beans,  string,  boiled,  1  to  3  hours,  according  to  age,  etc.  ' 

Beans,  boiled,  if  young,  about  1  hour;  if  old  2  to  4  hours. 

Brocoli,  boiled,  about  ^  hour. 

Brussels  sprouts,  boiled,  10  to  20  minutes. 

Cabbage,  winter,  1  hour  or  more;  young,  quartered,  -|  to  f  hour;  sliced 

^  hour. 
Carrots,  boiled,  if  young  |  to  |  hour;  old,  whole,  1  hour  or  more. 
Cauliflower,  boiled,  15  to  35  minutes. 
Celery,  boiled,  ^  hour. 
Corn,  green,  boiled,  20  to  25  minutes. 
Cucumbers,  boiled,  12  to  15  minutes. 
Endive,  stewed,  5  to  10  minutes. 
Kohlrabi,  boiled,  15  to  20  minutes. 
Lentiles,  boiled,  2  hours  or  more. 
Lettuce,  steamed,  10  or  15  minutes. 
Mushrooms,  stewed,  about  J  hour. 
Okra,  boiled,  ^  hour  or  more. 

Onions,  boiled,  if  young  ^  to  1  hour;  if  old  2  hours  or  more. 
Parsnips,  boiled,  if  small  ^  to  1  hour;  large,  1  to  IJ  hours. 
Peas,  green,  boiled,  \  hour  or  more,  according  to  age,  etc. 
Potatoes,  boiled,  25  to  35  minutes. 
Potatoes,  baked,  f  to  1  hour. 
Sweet  potatoes,  boiled,  f  to  1  hour. 
Sweet  potatoes,  baked,  1  to  1|  hours. 
Pumpkin,  stewed,  4  to  5  hours. 
Salsify,  boiled,  about  1  hour. 
Sea^kale,  boiled,  15  to  20  minutes. 
Sorrel,  scalded,  10  to  15  minutes. 
Spinach,  covered  closely,  about  1  hour. 
Squash,  boiled,  20  to  30  minutes. 
Squash,  baked,  about  1  hour. 
Tomatoes,  baked,  -I  to  f  hour. 
Tomatoes,  stewed,  i  to  |  hour. 

Turnips,  boiled,  if  young  15  to  20  minutes ;  if  old  f  to  1^  hours. 
Yams,  boiled,  f  to  1  hour. 

TIME  TO  BAKE. 

Beans,  8  to  10  hours. 

Beef,  sirloin,  rare,  8  to  10  minutes  per  lb. 

Beef,  sirloin,  well  done,  12  to  15  minutes  per  lb. 

Beef,  long  or  short  fillet,  20  to  30  minutes  per  lb. 

Beef,  rolled  rib  or  rump,  12  to  15  minutes  per  lb. 

Biscuit,  10  to  20  minutes. 

Bread,  brick  loaf,  40  to  60  minutes. 

Cake,  thin,    15  to  20  minutes;  thick,  30  to  40  minutes;  fruit,  2    to  3 

hours. 
Cake,  sponge,  45  to  60  minutes. 
Chicken,  3  to  4  lbs.,  1  to  1^  hours. 
Cookies,  10  to  15  minutes. 
Custards,  20  to  30  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Duck,  tame,  40  to  60  minutes. 
Fish,  6  to  8  lbs.,  1  hour. 


TIME  TO  BAKE— (Continued.) 

Gringerbread,  20  to  30  minutes. 

Graham  Gems,  |  hour. 

Lamb,  well  done,  15  minutes  per  lb. 

Mutton,  rare,  10  minutes  per  lb.  —  well  done  16  minutes  per  lb. 

Pies,  I  to  I  hour 

Pork,  well  done,  30  minutes  per  lb. 

Potatoes,  25  to  40  minutes,  according  to  age  etc. 

Pudding, — bread,  rice  and  tapioca,  f  to  1  hour. 

Pudding, — plum,  2  to  3  hours. 

Rolls,  10  to  15  minutes. 

Turkey,  8  lbs.,  3  hours. 

Veal,  well  done,  20  minutes  per  lb. 


TIME  TO  BROIL. 


Chickens,  about  20  minutes. 
Chops,  8  minutes. 
Steak,  4  to  8  minutes. 
Fisli,  5  to  15  minutes. 


TIME  TO  FRY. 


Bacon,  3  to  5  minutes. 
Breaded  chops,  4  to  6  minutes. 
Croquettes,  1  to  2  minutes. 
Doughnuts,  3  to  5  minutes. 
Fish  balls,  1  minute. 
Fritters,  3  to  5  minutes. 
Muffins,  3  to  5  minutes. 
Small  fish,  1  to  3  minutes. 
Smelts,  1  minute. 


BOILING  WATER ^Water  boils  at  212»  at  sea  level.    In  high  altitudes 

the  air  being  lighter,  the  pressure  on  top  of  the  water  is  less,  and  so  it  more 
easily  rises  into  vapor.  The  temperature  at  which  water  boils  decreases  about 
one  degree  for  each  600  feet  above  sea  level.  In  a  vacuum  water  boils  at  about 
100°;  at  an  altitude  of  6,500  feet  it  will  boil  at  about  200";  at  9,000  feet,  it  boils 
at  about  194°  and  so  on.  Down  in  a  mine,  the  air  pressure  on  top  being  greater, 
water  boils  at  a  higher  temperature.  Salt  water  boils  at  a  higher  temperature 
than  fresh,  its  boiling  point  being  about  224°  or  less,  according  to  its  saltness. 
Water  is  equally  hot  whether  it  boils  fast  or  slow,  and  if  fresh  it  will  not  rise 
above  212°  in  an  open  kettle.  In  high  altitudes  longer  boiling  may  compensate 
in  part  for  the  lower  temperature,  but  in  very  high  altitudes  it  is  diflScult  to  boil 
fDod  at  all.  When  boiling,  the  water  at  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  is  turned  to 
vapor  by  contact  with  the  hot  metal,  and  rises  toward  the  surface:  the  bubbles 
are  condensed  by  the  colder  water  near  the  top,  if  the  water  only  simmers,  but  in 
boiling  water  the  bubbles  of  vapor  rise  to  the  surface,  burst  and  escape  in  the  form 
of  steam.  The  "bubbling"  of  the  water  is  caused  by  this  rising  vapor.  The 
active  bubbling  which  takes  place  in  violent  boiling  may  sometimes  be  of  service 
in  cooking,  although  it  is  more  often  objectionable.  Violent  boiling  is  a  great 
waste  of  fuel,  and  many  of  the  more  volatile  and  savory  particles  of  food  are 
carried  away  in  the  steam,  so  that,  as  a  rule,  it  is  not  desirable  iu  cookiag.  (See 
also  "Cooking  in  High  Altitudes"  page  358.) 


TABLE  OF  PROPORTIONS. 

Baking   Powdee. — For    bread,  use  4  even  teaspoons  to  1  quart  of 

flour,  or  1  teaspoon  to  each  cup  of  flour.     Cake,  made  light  with 

eggs,  needs  less. 
Batters. — Use  1  scant  cup  of  liquid  to  each  full  cup  of  flour. 
Beead. — Use  1  scant  cup  of  liquid  for  3  full  cups  of  flour. 
Cake. — Yor plain  cake  use  1  saltspoon  of  spice  and  1  teaspoon  oi  ex- 
tract for  each  loaf  of  usual  size,  and  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

to  2  cups  flour.     For  sponge  cake  use  1  saltspoon  of  salt  and  1 

teaspoon  of  extract  to  1  ordinary  sized  loaf. 
Ceeam  of   Taetae. — Use   2  full   teaspoons   to  1  level  teaspoon  of 

soda. 
CuSTAEDS. — Use  1  teaspoon  of  extract  for  1  quart  of  custard,  and  1 

saltspoon  of  salt  to  4  cups  of  milk. 
Exteact. — Use  1  teaspoon  to  each  loaf  of  plain  or  sponge  cake,  or  to 

1  quart  of  custard. 
Heebs. — In  soup,  use  for  flavoring  1  teaspoon  of  mixed  herbs  to  each 

quart  of  soup. 
Liquids. — For  bread  use  1  scant  cup  to  3  full  cups  flour;  for  muffins 

use  the  same  for  2  full  cups  flour;  for  batters  use  the  same  for  1 

full  cup  flouf . 
Muffins. — Use  1  scant  cup  liquid  for  three  full  cups  flour. 
Peppee. — Use  1  saltspoon  of  white  pepper  to  1  quart  of  soup  stock. 
Salt. — Use  1  teaspoon  to  2  quarts  of  flour,  or  to  1  quart  of  soup 

stock.     Use  1  saltspoon  to  1  quart  of  milk  in  custards,  or  to  1 

loaf  of  sponge  cake. 
Soda. — Use  1  even  teaspoon  to  2  fidl  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar; 

use  1  teasx^oon  soda  to  1  cup  molasses,  or  2  cups  sour  milk. 
Soup. — In  soup  stock  use  1  tablespoon  of  each  chopped  vegetable,  1 

teaspoon  of  mixed  herbs,  4  cloves,  4  pepper^corns,  1  teaspoon  of 

salt,  or  1  saltspoon  of  white  pepper  to  each  quart  of  stock.     For 

each  pound  of  meat  and  bone  use  1  quart  of  water. 
Spice. — Use  1  saltspoon  of  any  kind  for  1  loaf  of  cake. 
Yeast. — For  each  2  cups  of  liquid  used  in  bread,  etc.,  use  1  cup  liquid 

yeast,  or  |  of  a  yeast  cake.     1  cup  of  liquid  yeast  is  equal  to  ^ 

cake  of  compressed  yeast. 

17 


ALTERING  RECIPES. 

In  order  to  be  S2ire  of  the  result,  care  should  be  taken  in  meas- 
uring all  the  ingredients,  to  use  the  exact  quantities  called  for  in  a 
recipe,  but  if  all  the  ingredients  are  changed  in  the  same  pi-oportion 
(as  for  example,  using  twice  as  much,  or  \  or  |  as  much  of  each  one) 
the  result  will  not  be  afPected.  As  has  been  well  said  by  the  author 
of  ''  Quick  Cooking,"  however,  except  in  those  cases  like  the  cooking 
of  meat  and  vegetables,  the  baking  of  bread,  etc.,  where  definite 
chemical  laws  apply  (which  cannot  be  violated  without  loss)  the 
rules  of  cooking  are  not  absolute  and  unchangeable.  The  large  class 
of  materials  combined  for  producing  flavors  (as  in  soups,  etc.)  can  be 
varied  indefinitely,  according  to  convenience  and  the  materials  at 
hand.  Whenever  you  get  hold  of  a  recipe  calling  for  numerous  ar- 
ticles for  flavoring,  some  of  which  you  do  not  have,  you  can  often  use 
the  recipe,  putting  in  the  flavorings  you  do  have,  or  substituting 
others  for  those  you  lack,  and  still  produce  a  very  good  dish,  although 
it  will,  of  course,  be  a  new  one — or,  if  not  judiciously  done,  it  may  not 
be  so  good!  Those  who  have  mastered  the  principles  of  cookery  and 
acquired  a  little  experience  can  devise  many  new  and  excellent 
recipes. 

INTOXICATING  LIQUORS. 

In  all  recipes  contained  in  the  department  of  cookery,  which  ad- 
vised the  use  of  intoxicating  liquors,  we  have  substituted  fruit  juices 
— often  using  orange  or  lemon  juice.  Nothing  can  excel  the  unfer- 
mented  juices  of  fruits  as  a  flavoring,  or  for  giving  a  desirable  pi- 
quancy to  various  dishes.  They  make  an  almost  perfect  substitutute 
for  liquors,  and  for  obvious  reasons  are  much  safer  for  family  use. 
Fruit  juice  can  be  easily  substituted  for  liquor  in  any  recipe  by  those 
who  desire  to  do  so.  In  fruit  cake,  \  cup  or  10  tablespoons  of  mo- 
lasses is  equal  to  1  wine  glass  of  brandy  or  other  liquor.  Those  so 
disposed  can  substitute  molasses  for  liquor  in  this  way  in  any  such 
recipe  found  in  books,  magazines  or  newspajDers;  a  cake  thus  made 
will  be  quite  as  good  as  though  the  liquor  was  used.  As  the  alcohol 
evaporates  in  baking,  however,  liquors  are  not  so  objectionable  in 
cakes  as  in  sauces. 

18 


SOUPS. 

OUPS  are  of  2  kinds;  the  heavy,  rich  soups,  made  from  stock 
prepared  the  day  before,  with  the  addition  of  other  ingre- 
dients on  the  day  of  serving,  and  plain  soups,  made  entirely 
in  the  morning  before  dinner.  These  latter  will,  no  doubt, 
be  more  useful  for  ordinary  occasions,  being  lighter,  and  quite  as 
palatable,  and  they  certainly  are  more  economical  than  those  made 
from  stock. 

Soups  are  made  by  cooking  meat,  fish  or  vegetables  in  water  or 
milk,  and  they  are  seasoned  with  a  great  variety  of  flavorings.  If 
you  see  a  recipe  calling  for  a  great  variety  of  ingredients,  many  of 
which  you  do  not  have,  you  will  find  that  you  can  often  use  what 
ingredients  you  do  have  and  still  produce  a  very  good  soup,  as  many 
of  the  ingredients  can  be  omitted  without  much  loss — it  will  simply 
change  the  flavor  a  little.  Kemember  that  the  2  important  points 
with  soups  are,  (1)  their  nutritive  properties,  which  are  extracted 
from  the  meat,  fish,  etc.,  and  (2)  the  flavoring  derived  from  herbs, 
spices,  etc.,  added  for  that  purpose.  Some  soups  will  contain  a  good 
deal  of  nourishment  and  others  very  little;  some  will  be  very  highly 
and  others  only  slightly  flavored. 

The  names  are  often  given  to  soups  because  of  their  principal 
ingredients,  as  with  "Beef,"  "Chicken,"  "Potato,"  or  "Cabbage 
Soup,"  and  sometimes  because  of  the  color,  as  "White,"  or  "Brown 
Soup,"  while  often  they  are  purely  fanciful.  By  bearing  these 
things  in  mind,  and  by  studying  the  principles  involved  in  extract- 
ing the  nutritive  properties  from  the  flsh  or  meat,  the  inexperienced 
cook  can  soon,  master  the  mysteries  of  soup  making,  and  she  can  then 
easily  make  new  and  appetizing  combinations  for  herself. 

The  Utensils  Used. — The  soup^kettle  or  stock-pot  for  an  ordinary 
family  should  hold  from  6  quarts  to  2  gallons.  The  allowance  of 
soup  for  each  person  is  a  half  pint,  and  unless  the  family  is  very 
large,  a  kettle  of  this  size  will  give  ample  room  for  a  full  supply, 
after  straining  from  the  soup  material.  The  best  kettle  is  made  of 
aluminum,  and  iron  is  next,  and  if  kept  scrupulously  clean  (as  all- 
cooking  utensils  should  be)  it  will  not  discolor  the  soup.  If  any- 
thing should  happen  to  turn  color  in  it,  there  is  nothing  'harmful  in 
the  oxide  of  iron,  whereas,  some  articles  of  food  are  made  poisonous 
if  prepared  in  brass,  copper,  or  lead,  especially  acid  foods,  if  allowed 

19 


20  SOUPS 

to  stand  in  those  vessels.  The  soup^kettle  should  be  high  in  propor- 
tion to  the  size,  as  only  a  small  surface  in  contact  with  the  hot  range 
is  needed  for  the  long,  slow  simmering  required  in  the  preparation  of 
soups.  A  kettle  of  that  form  takes  less  room  on  the  range,  and  when 
dinner  is  being  prepared,  this  is  desirable. 

Other  utensils  used  in  the  preparation  of  soups  are,  1  coarse  and 
1  fine  colander,  and  2  or  3  squares  of  cheese  cloth  for  strainers.  The 
cloth  strainer  should  be  boiled  in  water  with  a  little  cooking=soda 
added.  If  boiled  in  soap,  the  odor  is  apt  to  remain  in  the  cloth, 
giving  a  bad  flavor  to  the  soup. 

The  Principles  Involved  in  Soup  Making. —  Many  cooks  have  little  idea 
of  the  principles  involved  in  extracting  the  nutritive  properties  from 
meat,  but  they  are  quite  simple,  and  are  as  follows:*  Fibre,  fat, 
gelatine  and  albumen,  with  extractives  and  salts  (to  which  some 
writers  give  the  name  of  osmazome) ,  are  the  component  parts  of  all 
meats.  Fibres  swell  up  and  soften  when  subjected  to  the  action  of 
hot  water.  They  are  a  valuable  and  nourishing  food,  but  are  insolu- 
ble in  water,  and  constitute  nearly  all  that  remains  of  meat  after  long 
boiling.  Fat  is  dissolved  by  boiling,  but  as  it  is  contained  in  cells 
covered  by  a  very  fine  membrane  which  never  dissolves,  a  portion  of 
it  always  adheres  to  the  fibres.  The  other  portion  rises  to  the  sur- 
face of  the  stock,  and  is  that  which  has  escaped  from  the  cells  which 
were  not  whole,  or  which  have  burst  by  boiling.  Fat  is  also  added 
to  thickened  soups,  where  it  combines  with  starch  and  does  not  rise 
to  the  surface.  The  gelatine  is  soluble  in  water,  and  is  the  basis  and 
nutritious  portion  of  soup  stock.  It  is  the  gelatine  which,  when 
enough  of  it  is  present,  causes  the  stock  to  become  a  jelly  when  cold. 

Albumen  surrounds  the  fibres  of  meat  in  its  soluble  state,  just  as 
it  exists  in  an  unboiled  egg.  It  is  soluble  in  cold  or  tepid  water,  but 
it  begins  to  coagulate  at  145°  and  sets  into  a  jelly  at  160°,  for  which 
reason  it  is  evident  that  if  the  water  is  boiling  when  the  meat  is  put 
in,  or  if  it  is  afterwards  made  to  boil  up  quickly,  the  albumen  will 
harden,  and  will  form  a  thin  case  or  shell  which  will  prevent  the  gel- 
atine and  osmazome  from  dissolving,  and  the  result  will  be  a  thin 


*Count  Rumford,  writing  of  his  experiments  in  feeding  the  Bavarian  army, 
says:  "I  constantly  found  that  the  richness  or  quality  of  a  soup  depended 
more  upon  the  proper  choice  of  the  ingredients,  and  the  proper  management 
of  the  lire  in  the  combination  of  these  ingredients,  than  upon  the  quantity  of 
solid  nutritious  matter  employed;  much  more  upon  the  art  and  skill  of  the 
cook  than  upon  the  sums  laid  out  in  the  market."  To  which  we  may  add, 
that  the  poor  suffer  more  from  the  common  lack  of  skill  than  the  rich,  be- 
cause they  are  least  able  to  bear  the  losses  it  entails,  and  therefore  we  say, 
that  to  no  class  is  a  clear  understanding  of  the  principles  of  cookery  bo  im- 
portant as  to  the  poor. 


SOUPS  21 

and  tasteless  stock.  Albumen  partially  dissolved,  makes  the  cloudy 
appearance  of  soup  and  jelly;  coagulated  albumen  is  removed  a£ 
scum.  Scum  is  wasted  food.  It  is  well  also  to  know  that  the  size  of 
the  piece  of  meat  affects  the  solubility  of  the  albumen,  as  the  part 
farthest  from  the  surface  will  receive  enough  heat  to  be  coagulated 
before  it  is  dissolved,  if  the  piece  is  large.  The  extractives  and  salts 
(osmazome)  are  soluble  in  water,  cold  or  hot,  and  they  give  flavor 
and  perfume  to  the  stock.  The  flesh  of  old  animals  contains  more 
than  that  of  young  ones,  and  brown  meats  contain  more  than  white 
and  make  the  stock  more  fragrant.  By  roasting  meat,  a  portion  is 
converted  to  caramel;  thefore,  by  putting  the  remains  of  roast  meats 
in  the  stock^pot  a  better  flavor  is  obtained.  Choose  lean  rather  than 
fat  meat  for  soup.  See  also  what  we  say  elsewhere  about  the  princi- 
ples involved  in  cooking  meats. 

Bones  are  composed  of  ossein,  a  gelatinous,  fatty  fluid  some- 
thing like  marrow,  and  an  earthy  substance,  to  which  they  owe  their 
solidity.  As  much  gelatinous  matter  is  contained  in  2  oz.  of  bone  as 
in  1  lb.  of  meat,  but  it  is  so  incased  in  the  earthy  substance,  that  usu- 
ally only  the  surface  is  dissolved  in  boiling  water;  when  the  bones 
are  broken,  there  are  more  surfaces,  and  more  gelatinous  matter  is 
dissolved;  and  by  reducing  the  bones  to  powder,  all  the  gelatinous 
matter  can  be  obtained.  Long  continued  boiling  is,  therefore,  needed 
for  bones,  aud  this  boiling  should  continue  until  the  earthy  matter  is 
full  of  little  empty  holes  where  the  gelatinous  matter  once  was,  and 
until  the  bone  has  lost  |  of  its  weight.  They  should  boil  for  days 
rather  than  hours.  The  best  way  to  break  bones  is  to  pound  them 
roughly  in  an  iron  mortar,  adding  a  little  water  from  time  to  time  to 
prevent  their  heating.  It  is  a  great  saving  to  thus  utilize  bones 
which  are  often  entirely  wasted.  If  the  bones  are  finely  broken,  tie 
them  up  in  a  bag  and  put  them  in  the  stock^pot.  Now  gelatine 
forms  the  basis  of  stocks,  but  although  nourishing,  it  is  without  taste, 
and  so  stock  made  entirely  of  it,  is  not  liked.  Flavoring  and  salts  are 
needed  to  make  it  palatable,  and  when  meat  and  vegetables  are  add- 
ed to  the  cooking  bones,  they  make  the  stock  savory. 

Stock — When  meat  is  used  solely  to  make  stock,  cut  it  into  very 
small  pieces,  put  it  into  cold  water,  and  heat  very  slowly;  but  if  you 
wish  to  have  stock  and  a  piece  of  savory  meat  also,  choose  the  fresh- 
est meat,  and  have  it  cut  as  thick  as  possible,  for  if  it  is  a  thin,  flat 
piece,  if  will  not  look  well,  and  will  be  soon  spoiled  by  the  boiling. 
It  is  impossible,  however,  to  have  Jiist  rate  stock  and  good  boiled 
meat  at  the  same  time,  as  the  two  objects  are  diametrically  opposed. 


22  .  SOUPS 

As  it  extracts  all  the  juices  from  the  surface  of  meat  to  wash  it,  that 
should  never  be  done  unless  it  is  absolutely  necessary.  Add  cold 
water,  and  put  the  stock=x)ot  on  a  gentle  fire  and  heat  it  gradually. 
The  albumen  will  dissolve  if  it  is  never  heated  above  160°,  and  will 
not  coagulate,  but  as,  in  this  state,  it  is  much  lighter  than  water,  it 
will  rise  to  the  surface,  and  this  is  what  makes  the  scum.  The  ris- 
ing of  the  hardened  albumen  (scum)  has  the  same  effect  in  clarify- 
ing stock  as  the  white  of  eggs  (which  is  albumen)  and,  as  a  rule,  it 
may  be  said,  that  the  more  scum  there  is,  the  clearer  the  stock  will 
be.  If  you  want  clear  stock,  remove  the  scum  when  it  rises  thickly. 
Do  not  let  the  stock  boil  fast,  because  then  part  of  the  scum  will 
be  dissolved  and  another  part  will  go  to  the  bottom,  thus  making 
it  difficult  to  obtain  a  clear  broth.  Always  try  to  have  the  fire  very 
regular,  as  then  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  add  cold  water  in  order 
to  make  the  scum  rise;  but  if  the  fire  is  too  warm  at  first,  that  will  be 
necessary.  If  fried  onions  are  added  to  stock,  tie  them  in  a  bag,  as 
they  may  cloud  it  without  this  precaution.  Generally  speaking,  the 
longer  the  stock  simmers,  the  better  it  will  be. 

Removing  Fat — The  English  and  Americans  prefer  soup  with  the 
fat  removed;  it  has  become  the  fashion  and  the  fat  is  thought  to  look 
badly,  but  the  fat  is  food,  and  quite  nutritious.  The  common  people 
on  the  continent  prefer  their  soup  covered  with  "eyes"  (fat).  The 
scum  is  coagulated  albumen,  and  if  clean  meat  was  used,  the  scum 
will  not  be  objectionable;  it  is  certainly  nutritious,  and  to  throw  it 
away  is  clear  waste.  Its  presence  is  not  noticable  in  thickened  soups 
as  it  is  mingled  in  and  hidden  by  the  other  ingredients.  Those  who 
want  clear  soux)s  can  easily  make  them,  but  it  is  well  to  understand 
that  they  are  less  nutritious  than  others.  In  invalid  cookery  the  fat 
is  removed  because  the  stomach  is  then  weak,  and  often  not  able  to 
digest  it,  but  with  healthy  people  the  case  is  different. 

When  it  is  desired  to  remove  the  fat,  soup  can  be  allowed  to 
stand  until  next  day,  and  it  can  then  all  be  taken  off;  then  the  soup 
can  be  re=warmed.  Or  any  surplus  fat  on  the  surface  of  souj)  may 
be  removed  (after  skimming  off  as  much  as  x^ossible  with  a  spoon) 
by  drawing  a  piece  of  blotting  paper  across  it,  which  will  remove  all 
the  remaining  fat.  Or  to  take  fat  from  soups,  sauces,  etc.,  thor- 
oughly wet  a  cloth  with  cold  water  and  pour  the  stock  through  it; 
the  coldness  of  the  cloth  will  coagulate  the  fat,  which  will  collect  on 
the  cloth;  repeat  if  necessary;  if  any  particles  of  fat  remain,  take 
them  off  with  blotting  paper  as  above.  The  fat  on  the  cloth  can  be 
removed  and  clarified,  and  is  good  for  many  purposes. 


SOUPS  23 

Flavorings — Add  vegetables  used  for  flavoring  about  an  hour 
before  serving  soup;  that  is,  do  not  add  them  until  the  juices  are 
nearly  extracted  trom  the  meat.  Wash  and  pare  the  vegetables,  cut 
them  into  small  pieces,  and  keep  them  in  cold  water  until  ready  to 
add  them  to  the  soup.  They  can  be  first  blanched  or  parboiled  if 
very  strong  or  old.  If  desired^  a  part  or  all  of  the  vegetables  can  be 
fried  before  being  added  to  the  soup;  potatoes, 
cabbages  and  onions  are  better  for  being  boiled 
in  separate  water  before  being  added.  Pars- 
ley, summer  savory  and  celery  are  also  often 
used;  onions  and  garlic  we  speak  of  in  a 
following  paragraph.  Some  cooks  occasionally 
use  cloves,  basil,  bay  leaf,  nutmeg,  etc.  For  a 
variety,  try  a  little  caraway  seed  in  potato  soup. 
Just  before  serving,  add  the  salt  and  pepper. 

Sweet  Basil  is   a  tender  annual,  a  native    of  Asia. 
The  leaves  and  leafy  tops  are  highly  aromatic,  and  their  basil. 

flavor  resembles  that    of    cloves.     It    is   much    used    in 
French  cookery,  but  not  much  by  English  or  American  cooks. 

The  flavoring  of  all  food  is  an  important  matter  and  should 
never  be  slighted.  For  soups  and  stews  the  best  rule  is  to  combine 
several  flavors  without  having  any  one  of  them  too  prominent. 

As  boiling  spoils  the  flavor  of  wines  and  catsups,  if  they  are 
added,  it  should  not  be  until  just  before  serving.  Unless  the  soup 
is  to  be  thick,  no  flavor  should  be  added,  but  if  some  of  the  meat 
and  vegetables  used  are  fried,  it  will  improve  the  color  and  flavor, 
but  be  sure  nothing,  either  meat  or  vegetable,  is  added,  which  will 
have  the  taste  of  being  smoked  or  burnt. 

Great  richness  may  often  be  given  to  soups  by  the  addition  of 
fried  cucumbers.  Cut  ofp  celery  leaves,  dry  them,  and  put  them  in  a 
tin  can,  and  you  will  have  them  the  year  round  to  flavor  soux^s. 

Using  Onions. — Onions,  garlic  and  shallot  are  disliked  by  so  many 
people,  that,  in  making  stock,  or  any  of  the  quickly  made  soups,  it 
is  better  to  leave  them  out;  but  as  many  people  consider  soup  flavor- 
less without  those  vegetables,  a  dish  of  stewed  onions,  garlic  or  shal- 
xot  may  be  cooked  separately,  and  on  serving  it,  a  little  can  be  added 
to  the  soup  given  to  those  who  like  such  flavors.  In  this  way,  soup 
either  with  or  without  onions  can  be  served  from  the  same  tureen. 

Onion  juice  for  flavoring  can  easily  be  obtained  by  peeling  and 
mincing  an  onion  and  squeezing  it  in  an  ordinary  lemon  squeo"er.  or 
cheese=cloth.  The  odor  can  be  removed  from  the  squeezer  and  knife 
by  washing  them  in  cold  water. 


24  SOUPS 

Tne  Chite  is  a  plant  belonging  to  the  same  family  as  the 
leek  and  onion,  being  the  smallest  of  the  onion  tribe.  Its 
properties  are  similar  to  the  onion,  and  it  is  used  like  that  in 
soups,  sauces,  salads,  etc.,  but  it  is  much  stronger,  and  only 
about  %  as  much  is  needed. 

The  Shallot,  Shalot  ob  Eschalot  is  a  native  of  Pales- 
tine. It  was  introduced  into  Europe  by  the  Crusaders.  It 
belongs  to  the  same  family  as  the  common  onion,  but  its  fla- 
vor is  stronger,  and  it  does  not  leave  an  unpleasant  odor 
behind.  The  leaves  of  the  plant  may  be  cut  while  growing, 
and  used  like  young  onions.  It  is  used  for  high  flavored  soups 
and  gravies,  and  is  excellent  when  pickled.  Shallot  vinegar  is 
used  for  flavoring  soups,  sauces,  hashes,  etc. 

Rocambole  is  oiten  called  Spanish  Shallot,  and  belongs  to 
the  order  Liliacm.     It  is  very  similar  to  garlic,  but  is  milder. 

Broth  can  be  changed  and  often  improved  in  fla-  shallot. 

vor  by  using  2  or  3  kinds  of  meat  at  the  same  time; 
for  example,  with  beef   a   little   liver  can  be  added,  or  with  veal  a 
piece  of  ham. 

For  seasoning,  salt,  whole  and  ground  pepper,  both  black  and 
white,  cayenne,  allspice,  ginger,  cloves,  mace  and  cinnamon  should 
be  ready.  Whole  pepper  is  always  used  for  white  soups,  as  ground 
pepper  makes  them  look  dusty.  As  herbs  and  spices  are  more  easily 
removed  from  soup,  by  straining,  when  whole  than  when  ground,  it 
is  better  to  use  them  whole. 

Be  chary  of  seasoning  and  spices.  A  little  of  these  things  will 
go  a  long  way.  But  a  very  little  sugar  judiciously  added  will  often 
be  found  to  greatly  improve  the  flavor.  Never  indulge  over  freely  in 
onion  or  shallot  in  soups.  The  condiments  should  not  be  added 
until  just  before  the  simmering  is  completed,  in  any  soup,  as  they 
will  harden  the  meat  etc.,  with  which  they  come  in  contact. 

Hints, — When  the  meat,  vegetables,  etc.,  are  put  in  the  kettle 
add  what  water  will  be  needed,  as  it  will  injure  the  flavor  of  soup  to 
add  more  afterwards. 

If  too  much  salt  is  added  by  mistake,  its  taste  may  be  modified 
by  adding  2  or  8  teaspoons  of  vinegar;  its  acid  will  partially  neu- 
tralize the  alkaline  salt;  then  add  a  little  sugar  to  mask  the  taste 
of  the  vinegar. 

No  further  general  directions  will  be  needed  for  making  soups, 
as  special  directions  accompany  each  recipe.  The  experienced  cook 
can  vary  the  rules  according  to  the  tastes  of  her  family,  while  the 
novice  in  cookery  will  find  the  best  results  by  adhering  strictly  to  the 
recipes  as  given,  as  they  have  been  tested  and  found  good. 

STOCK  FOR  SOUP. 

All  meat  and  bones,  scraps  and  trimmings,  used  in  making  stock, 


SOUPS  25 

or  plain  soup,  must  be  perfectly  fresh,  for  the  least  taint  in  the  meat 
is  sure  to  sjaoil  stock  or  soup.  Soft  water  is  also  required,  as  this  ex- 
tracts the  juices  from  the  meat,  and  gelatine  from  the  bones,  much 
better  than  hard  water.  The  proportion  of  meat  and  water  for  stock 
is  about  1  pound  of  meat,  bones  and  trimmings,  for  2  quarts  of  water. 
The  slow  boiling  does  not  much  reduce  the  quantity,  but  a  little  boil- 
ing water  may  be  added  from  time  to  time  if  any  appreciable  quanti- 
ty has  evaporated.  When  the  meat  separates  from  the  bones,  it  can 
be  taken  out  and  used  in  making  various  side  dishes  found  under  the 
head  of  "  Meats  " — the  bones  remaining  longer  for  the  extraction  of 
gelatine. 

Mutton,  lamb  and  pork  are  not  good  for  stock,  as  the  flavor  of 
the  former  is  unpleasant  when  re=cooked,  and  pork  is  too  oily  to  use 
in  this  way,  although  many  cooks  do  use  ham  bones  in  soups.  Beef 
makes  the  best  stock,  as  the  flesh  of  mature  animals  contains  more 
osmazome;  an  old  fowl  is  a  great  addition  to  stock.  Veal  alone 
makes  a  fine  white  stock,  but  not  so  savory.  Bones  ought  always  to 
form  a  component  part  in  the  soup=kettle  when  making  stock,  and 
they  should  be  finely  broken,  in  order  to  extract  all  the  gelatine. 

Watch  the  stock^pot  until  it  is  ready  to  boil,  then  carefully  take 
off  all  the  scum  as  fast  as  it  rises.  When  thoroughly  skimmed,  set 
back  on  the  range  where  it  will  just  simmer — do  not  boil  rapidly  as 
this  hardens  the  albumen.  It  may  be  kept  simmering  on  a  gas  or 
kerosene  stove,  if  fire  is  not  needed  for  other  purposes.  Stock  while 
cooking  should  not  be  tightly  covered.  A  sieve  should  be  placed 
over  the  kettle  to  keep  out  flies,  but  close  covering  prevents  the  stock 
from  being  clear. 

The  vegetables  used  in  making  stock,  are  turnips,  carrots,  onions 
or  garlic  and  celery.  The  meat  should  slowly  cook  4  or  5  hours,  and 
the  vegetables  the  last  hour,  as  vegetables  should  only  be  added  in 
time  to  become  thoroughly  done  when  used  in  any  soup;  then  strain 
it  through  the  cloth  strainer  (called  by  foreign  cooks  a  "tamgiy") 
into  a  tin  pail,  or  deep  tin  pan,  as  it  cools  more  quickly  in  tin  than  in 
any  other  vessel.  The  pail  or  pan  must  be  entirely  tinned,  for  if  the 
tin  is  off  the  vessel,  the  stock  may  be  discolored  by  standing  in  con- 
tact with  iron; — the  salt  in  the  soup  will  attack  the  iron,  and  cause 
rust.  While  boiling,  the  salt  does  not  attack  the  kettle  unless  it  is 
new  and  rough,  because,  after  using  a  smooth  kettle  for  a  while,  the 
pores  of  the  iron  become  filled  with  the  fat  of  the  meats  cooked  in  it. 

Place  the  tin  containing  the  stock  in  an  airy  place,  iu  the  shade, 
where  it  will  cool  as  quickly  as  possible,  and  cover  it  with  a  sieve  to 
keep  out  the  flies.     When  it  is  cooled,  place  it  uncovered  in  the  ice 


26  SOUPS 

chest  for  the  fat  to  rise.  The  stock  should  be  a  firm  jelly  and  will 
keep  for  a  week  in  the  ice  chest.  The  next  day  after  making  it,  the 
fat  can  all  be  removed  from  the  top  of  the  stock,  and  used  in  cooking 
vegetables.  Wipe  the  top  of  the  stock  with  a  dry  cloth,  and  then 
with  a  little  cloth  wet  with  extract  of  cloves  to  prevent  its  molding. 

For  ordinary  cooking,  especially  in  hot  weather,  it  is  better  to 
make  stocK  one  day,  for  the  soup  of  the  following  day,  rather  than 
take  the  risk  of  having  it  mold  or  sour.  Remember  that  it  must  be 
cooled  as  quickly  as  possible  without  other  covering  than  a  sieve, 
which  facilitates  the  escape  of  steam,  and  consequently  the  cooling  of 
the  stock,  and  at  the  same  time  keeps  out  the  flies.  If  tightly  cov- 
ered, and  the  stock  is  a  long  time  in  cooling,  it  will  ferment  and  sour, 
when  it  becomes  poisonous.  If  only  beginning  to  turn,  it  is  said 
that  it  may  be  restored  by  tying  some  charcoal  in  a  bag,  putting  it  in 
the  stock,  and  then  boiling  it. 

STOCK  NO.  1. 

2  lbs.  shin  of  beef  well  broken.  1  head  of  celery. 

2  lbs.  knuckle  of  veal.  4  whole  cloves. 

1  gallon  cold  water.  1  teaspoon  of  broken  white  pepper. 

1  large  onion.  1  teasxaoon  of  sugar  caramel. 

3  carrots.  1  blade  of  mace,  or  a  little  nutmeg. 
1  turnip.  1  soup  bunch;  salt. 

STOCK  NO.  2. 
1  old  fowl.  2  carrots. 

4  lbs.  veal  bones  well  broken.  1  turnip. 

1  gallon  of  cold  water.  Salt  and  pepper. 

2  onions.  Cloves  and  herbs. 

STOCK  NO.  3. 

4  lbs.  beef  shin-bones,  broken.  3  large  carrots. 

1  chicken,  1  turnip. 

1  gallon  cold  water.  Salt  and  pepper. 

3  large  onions.  Cloves  and  herbs. 

VEAL  OR  WHITE  STOCK. 

Wipe  4  lbs,  knuckle  of  veal,  break  the  bones,  put  it  into  one  gal- 
lon of  cold  water,  heat  slowly,  and  simmer  4  hours,  skimming  well; 
then  add  1  stalk  of  celery,  1  onion,  1  bay  leaf  and  1  tablespoon  salt, 
and  simmer  1  hour  longer.  It  should  jelly  when  cold,  and  the  fat 
can  easily  be  taken  off.  It  can  be  melted  for  use  and  strained 
through  cheese-cloth,  or  flannel,  or  clarified  with  egg  if  necessary  and 
it  is  wanted  very  clear. 


SOUPS  27 

FISH  STOCK. 

Never  throw  away  the  water  in  which  fish  has  been  boiled;  it  is 
valuable  for  making  fish  sauce,  and  also  cheap  fish  soups — {soup 
maigre).  Therefore,  in  boiling  fish,  or  any  meats  whatever,  when 
the  broth  is,  or  may  be  wanted  for  stock,  be  careful  about  putting  in 
too  much  salt.  Salt  in  quantity  is  not  needed  for  boiling  fish — only 
a  little  to  harden  it,  and  the  sauce  served  with  it  can  contain  more  if 
liked.  Many  kinds  of  fish,  after  boiling  in  just  sufficient  water  to 
cover  them,  will  leave  the  broth  a  hard  jelly  when  it  is  cold.  This  of 
course  contains  nourishment,  and  the  next  day  can  be  utilized  for  a 
fine  soup,  by  adding  the  bones  and  remnants  of  the  boiled  fish  with 
additional  seasoning  and  vegetables. 

Stock,  to  Clear  or  Clarify.— For  each  quart  of  jellied  stock,  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  are  required;  melt  the  stock  and  let  it  get 
steaming  hot,  but  not  boiling;  beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  with  the 
shells  which  have  been  washed  and  well  crushed,  and  stir  into  the 
hot  stock,  then  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point;  set  it  back  on  the 
range  and  simmer  15  minutes;  strain  through  a  flannel  bag;  keep 
returning  it  through  the  bag  until  it  runs  through  bright  and  clear. 
In  cold  weather  this  operation  must  be  near  the  fire  to  keep  the  jelly 
from  setting.  The  bag  must  be  made  of  fine,  thin,  new  flannel,  and 
well  scalded  in  hot  water  containing  a  teaspoon  of  borax,  or  cooking 
soda.  Never  use  soap  in  cleaning  the  bag,  or  other  strainers  used  in 
making  soups  or  gravies,  as  the  odor  of  the  soap  will  afPect  the 
flavor  of  the  soups.  Clearing  stock  extracts  the  flavor  and  nutrition, 
and  is  not  necessary  for  every-day  soups,  besides  being  too  expen- 
sive, as  well  as  consuming  too  much  time.  The  every-day  soup  only 
needs  straining  and  the  removal  of  superfluous  fat. 

To  Clarify  Soup,  when  desired,  beat  the  white  of  an  egg 
with  a  small  cup  of  cold  water  and  add  to  the  soup;  simmer  for  10 
minutes,  and  then  strain  through  the  "  tammy,"  or  cloth  strainer. 

Hints — Even  very  weak  stock  is  much  better  than  water  to  use 
for  soups  and  gravies,  vegetable  stock  being  better  than  none. 
White  stock  is  made  of  veal,  and  of  bones  which  have  been  boiled 
once  or  contain  only  gelatine.  The  best  stock  is  obtained  from  the 
freshest  meat. 

Soup  meat  if  not  boiled  too  long,  can,  after  cooling,  be  finely 
chopped,  seasoned  to  taste,  and  heated  again  with  a  piece  of  butter. 
If  not  moist  enough,  1  or  2  spoonfuls  from  the  soup^kettle  may  be 
added.  This  will  make  a  delicious  side  dish,  or  nice  breakfast  dish 
the  next  morning. 


28  SOUPS 

If  a  good  soup  is  served  (which  can  be  made  of  the  cheapest 
cuts  of  meat)  with  bread,  it  is  almost  a  meal  in  itself.  Then  the 
meat  can  be  served  as  houilli,  or  minced  and  made  delicious  by  judi- 
cious seasoning  and  flavoring — it  is  much  less  expensive  than  the 
heavy  and  costly  large  joints.  French  cookery  is  proverbially  inex- 
pensive, and  it  is  equally  renowned  for  its  delicacy.  In  France  just 
this  rule  of  cookery  is  most  often  followed.  But  it  should  be  remem- 
bered that  the  French  do  not  cook  the  soup  until  (dl  the  osmazome 
and  nutrients  are  extracted  from  the  meat.  If  cooked  until  all  the 
nutrients  are  extracted  from  the  fibres,  they  will  be  of  little  value,  as 
needed  fibre  can  be  obtained  more  cheaply  in  other  ways,  than  to 
attempt  to  make  them  palatable  by  adding  the  other  ingredients 
necessary. 

Coloring  for  Soups. — Amber  Color. — The  favorite  color  for  soups 
is  caramel  or  scorched  sugar  (not  burned).  This  not  only  gives  the 
soup  a  fine  amber  color  but  imparts  a  fine  flavor  to  it.  Vegetables 
sliced  thin  and  fried  in  a  very  little  butter  till  nicely  browned,  and 
then  put  into  the  soup  kettle,  will  impart  an  amber  color. — Broton. 
Onions  fried  a  dark  brown,  will,  in  addition  to  caramel,  give  a 
brown  color.  Many  cooks  fry  a  few  slices  of  the  soup  meat  a  dark 
brown  before  the  simmering  process  is  begun. — Green.  Pounded 
spinach  and  puree  of  young  green  peas  color  soups  green. — Golden 
Color.  Saffron  will  give  soups  a  fine  golden  color — only  a  very  little 
is  needed. — Red.  Tomatoes,  lobster  coral,  well  pounded,  and  cochi- 
neal will  impart  a  red  color.  Pot=marigold,  leaves,  stems  and  flowers 
are  used  by  the  French  to  color  and  flavor  soups. 

Lobster  Butter — Take  lobster  coral  (not  the  little  red  eggs  that 
cling  to  the  outside  of  the  lobster,  but  the  red  lumps  inside  when  it 
is  cut  open  down  to  the  tail);  wash  it  carefully,  removing  every  mor- 
sel of  the  flesh  or  green  part,  as  that  may  turn  it  after  it  is  made. 
Add  a  little  butter  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar — the  less  butter  used  the 
better,  but  it  must  be  pounded  until  perfectly  smooth  and  free  from 
grit;  then  add  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  nutmeg,  which  will  pre- 
serve it.  About  half  fill  jelly  glasses  with  it,  set  it  in  the  oven  till 
thoroughly  hot,  press  it  down,  pour  on  a  little  melted  parafine  or 
clarified  butter,  and  tie  on  paper. 

ADDITIONS  TO  SOUPS. 
Queoelles  or  Force=Meat,  Croutons  and  Nudels  or  Noodles  are  additions 
to  soup  used  by  foreign  cooks.     Curry^powder  and  various  sauces  are 
also  used  for  flavoring  rich  soups  for  banquets  and  dinners  for  cere- 
mony, and  can  be  us   ^    '    liked,  in  the  preparation  of  side  dishea 


SOUPS  29 

made  from  soup=meat,  in  warming  the  remains  of  boiled  and  roasted 
meat. 

CROUTONS  (pronounced  kru-tons'). — These  are  bits  of  bread 
cut  in  small  diamonds,  squares,  cubes,  or  in  fanciful  shapes.  They 
are  fried  brown  in  butter,  and  used  in  soups,  and  as  a  garnish  for 
side  dishes  and  entrees  of  meat. 

FORCEMEAT  OR  QUENELLES  (pronounced  kee-nells.)— This 
is  made  of  equal  parts  of  bread-crumbs,  beef- suet,  and  any  kind  of 
raw  meat  excepting  mutton,  lamb,  or  pork.  Poultry  and  game  make 
excellent  force-meat,  but  veal  is  most  commonly  used.  The  suet  and 
meat  must  first  be  cut  finely,  then  chopped,  and  lastly  pounded  to  a 
paste  in  a  mortar,  with  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  any  pulverized  herbs, 
if  liked. 

To  1  pound  of  meat  and  1  of  suet,  allow  4  eggs.  Beat  the  eggs 
thoroughly  and  mix  with  the  paste,  and  work  through  a  wire  sieve  or 
fine  colander  to  take  out  any  fibers  that  may  remain  in  the  meat; 
to  the  strained  mixture  add  the  bread=crumbs  which  have  been  previ- 
ously dried,  pulverized  and  sifted;  then  take  up  the  mixture  in  a  tea- 
spoon, and  with  another  teaspoon  form  and  smooth  the  quenelles  in 
shape  like  a  small 
egg;  they  are  then 
dropped  in  boiling 
water  for  ten  min- 
utes     to    poach. 

"When  a  soup  is  to     \  |  ^m^J^^  fobmino-  quenelles. 

be     served    with 
them,  place  them  in 

the  tureen,  and  pour  the  hot  soup  over  them.  Another  way  to  pre- 
pare force-meat  balls  is  to  shape  the  above  mixture  into  balls  the  size 
of  marbles,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  until  a  light  brown. 

SUET  DUMPLINGS  FOR  SOUP— Take  3  cups  sifted  flour, 
sift  in  B  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  then  rub  in  well  1  cup  of 
finely  chopped  suet;  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  enough  sweet  milk 
to  make  as  stiff  as  biscuit  dough ;  then  form  it  into  balls  about  the 
size  of  oranges,  flour  them  well,  and  |  hour  before  serving  the  soup, 
put  them  in  it;  the  cover  should  not  be  taken  off,  and  to  make  them 
nice  they  should  boil  steadily  until  ready  to  serve.  They  make  a 
kind  of  pot^pie. 

NOODLES  OR  NUDELS.— To  1  egg  add  a  little  salt,  and  Cour  to 
make  a  stiff  paste.     Eoll  out  as  thin  st  a  wafer,  then  roll  up  as  you 


30  SOUPS 

would  jelly=cake.  Slice  off  the  end  in  fine  strings,  shake  out  loosely 
and  cook  in  the  soup  for  10  minutes  before  taking  it  up;  or  the 
dough  may  be  rolled  out  a  little  thicker  than  pie^crust,  and  cut  in 
rounds  with  a  tiny  biscuit  cutter;  or  it  may  be  divided  in  2,  then  4, 
then  8  parts,  and  so  on  until  the  pieces  are  the  size  of  a  gooseberry 
when  rolled  in  the  hand.  Roll,  and  boil  them  in  the  soup  for  15 
minutes  before  taking  it  up.  The  German  nudels  are  made  much 
the  same  as  this,  but  they  use  no  salt,  as  that,  they  think,  makes 
them  sticky  when  cooked. 

SOUP=BUNCH — This  is  a  bunch  of  young  onions  or  leeks,  car- 
rots, and  various  herbs  to  be  found  in  the  market  in  most  large  places, 
such  as  green  sage,  thyme,  marjoram  etc.;  celery-tops  are  sometimes 
included.  The  onions,  carrots  and  other  vegetables  can  be  cut  in 
pieces  for  the  soup,  but  the  herbs  are  best  folded  in  thin  muslin  and 
taken  out  after  10  minutes  simmering  in  the  soup. 

SOUPsBOQUET. — A  boquet  of  herbs  for  flavoring  soups  and 
sauces  is  much  used  by  foreign  cooks,  and  is  made  of  a  few  sprigs  of 
parsley,  thyme,  celery  leaves,  1  or  2  leaves  of  sage  and  a  bay  leaf. 
This  may  be  folded  in  a  small  square  of  tarlatan  or  other  thin  cloth, 
and  wound  with  a  thread.  This  can  be  put  in  the  soup  for  a  little 
time,  and  all  removed  without  trouble  when  the  soup  is  served. 

THICKENING  FOR  SOUP.— Clear  soup  may  be  thickened  with 
a  little  corn=starch,  and  still  preserve  its  transparency.  For  brown 
soups,  browned  flpur  is  much  better  than  the  raw  for  thickening. 
Put  into  a  small  sauce=pan  ^  lb.  of  butter  and  when  hot,  stir  into  it 
2  cups  of  flour.  Stir  this  over  the  fire  till  it  is  pale  brown,  taking 
care  that  it  does  not  burn.  One  large  tablespoonful  thickens  a 
quart  of  soup. 

Flour,  arrowroot,  bread-crumbs,  sago,  rice,  oatmeal,  barley, 
macaroni  and  vermicelli  are  all  put  into  soujp  to  thicken  it.  They  all 
have  this  in  common,  that  the  soup  must  actually  boil  to  burst  the 
starch  granules  after  they  are  added.  Floury  substances  must  be 
mixed  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water,  milk  or  broth,  before  being 
added  to  the  bulk  of  the  broth.  Eggs,  when  added,  should  be 
beaten,  mixed  with  a  little  of  the  warm  liquid,  strained  into  the  soup, 
and  not  afterwards  allowed  to  boil,  lest  they  harden  in  tiny  lumps,  or 
what  is  iDopularly  called  "  curdle."  The  yolk  is  better  to  use  than 
the  white.  "Body"  may  be  given  to  soup  by  adding  a  little  cold 
potato,  grated,  and  mashed  potato  is  sometimes  added,  mixed  smooth 
with  a  Itttle  milk.     Flour  can  be  cooked  in  a  little  butter  and  then 


SOUPS  31 

added,  which  is  probably  better  than  first  mixing  it  in  cold  water  as 
above.  Barley,  when  added,  should  be  soaked  over  night,  and  then 
stirred  in  an  hour  before  the  soup  is  done.  With  rice,  use  1  table 
spoon  to  1  quart  of  soup,  and  add  it  about  30  minutes  before  it  is 
done.  Farina  can  be  sprinkled  in  a  short  time  before  serving,  allow- 
ing it  to  boil  a  little  while. 

CARAMEL  FOR  SOUP. — Put  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  in  a  frying^ 
pan  and  place  on  the  stove;  let  it  dissolve  and  brown,  but  not  burn 
When  it  has  turned  a  bright  golden  color  and  begins  to  smoke,  add 
water  enough  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  i^an;  let  it  boil  up  and  dis- 
solve the  caramel;  then  pour  into  the  soup  for  coloring  and  flavor. 
This  is  not  to  be  used  in  any  white  soup.  If  you  have  prepared 
caramel  on  hand,  use  that.  See  our  recipe  given  elsewhere  for  pre- 
paring it. 

BROWNED  CRACKERS — These  are  a  fine  addition  to  soups, 
and  with  tea  or  coffee  are  good  for  invalids.  The  crackers  are  first 
split  and  a  little  butter  spread  on  the  halves;  they  are  then  placed  on 
a  baking  tin,  with  the  split  and  buttered  side  up;  set  them  in  a  hot 
oven,  on  the  top  shelf,  and  they  are  done  when  of  a  delicate  yellow- 
ish brown.  They  need  watching  very  closely,  to  prevent  scorching. 
They  are  delicious  with  soups,  fish  chowder  and  oyster  stews. 

EGQ=BALLS  FOR  SOUP — Powder  some  hard=boiled  yolks  of 
egg,  and  add  sufficient  raw  yolk  to  make  the  mixture  into  a  paste 
that  can  be  rolled;  add  some  pepper,  salt,  a  little  finely  chopped  pars- 
ley, and  a  "suspicion"  of  nutmeg;  roll  into  balls  the  size  of  marbles. 
Dip  the  balls  into  flour  and  throw  them  into  boiling  water  till  they 
are  set;  then  drain  them  and  throw  them  into  the  soup  before  serv- 
ing.    They  can  also  be  used  to  garnish  entrees. 

VIRGINIA  FLAVORING.— Take  thyme,  mint,  sweet  marjoram, 
and  rosemary  gathered  in  full  perfection;  pick  from  the  stalks,  put 
them  in  a  large  jar,  pour  on  strong  vinegar,  and  let  stand  24  hours; 
then  take  out  the  herbs,  throw  in  fresh  bunches,  and  do  this  3  times; 
then  strain  the  liquor,  put  it  in  bottles,  cork  and  seal  tight.  Do  not 
let  the  herbs  stay  in  more  than  24  hours  at  one  time,  else  a  bitter, 
unsavory  taste  may  be  imparted.  What  is  wanted,  is  just  the  deli 
cate  first  flavor  which  comes  from  steeping  the  herbs  in  the  liquid 
It  makes  a  delicious  flavor  for  soups  and  sauces. 


82  VEGETABLE  SOUPS 

VEGETABLE    SOUPS. 

ALMOND  SOUP. — Blanch  and  pound  finely  1  pound  of  sweet 
almonds,  and  the  yolks  of  4  hard  boiled  eggs;  beat  these  well  togeth- 
er, and  add  to  a  gallon  of  hot  stock;  let  it  come  to  boiling  and  stir 
constantly;  thicken  with  bits  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  just  before 
serving,  add  salt  to  taste,  and  a  coffee  cup  of  rich  cream.  Have  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  cut  in  small  pieces  in  the  tureen,  pour  over  it  the 
hot  soup  and  serve.     Time,  20  minutes. 

ASPARAGUS  SOUP — Break  off  all  that  is  tender  from  a  bundle 
of  fresh,  green  asparagus,  and  put  this  in  a  large  pan,  with  a  large 
handful  of  freshly  gathered  spinach,  1  of  parsley,  and  the  same  of 
spring  onions.     Wash  in  2  waters  and  drain  in  a  sieve;  then  boil  in 

2  quarts  of  water,  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  salt.  As  soon  as 
the  asparagus  is  done,  rub  all  through  a  fine  colander  and  return  to 
the  pot;  then  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg  (cut  in 
bits  and  rolled  in  flour),  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  a  sprinkle  of  white 
pepper.     Serve  hot  with  croutons.     Time,  ^  hour. 

BARLEY  SOUP. — Scald  10  tablespoons  of  pearled  barley;  drain, 
cover  with  fresh  boiling  water,  and  boil  8  hours.  Scald  a  quart  of 
rich,  sweet  milk  and  add  to  the  barley  when  done.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the  yolks  of  10  eggs  to  a  foam  and  put  in 
the  soup4ureen;  pour  over  the  barley  soup  and  serve. 

BEAN  SOUP — Soak  1  cup  of  white  beans  over  night;  in  the 
morning  boil  until  quite  tender;  then  rub  through  a  colander,  and 
add  8  pints  of  water  and  1  quart  of  rich  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 

3  large  potatoes  chopped  fine;  season  with  finely  cut  parsley,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.     Simmer  about  ^  hour,  and  serve  hot. 

LIMA  BEAN  SOUP — Soak  a  pint  of  dried  Lima  beans  over 
night;  turn  off  the  water  in  the  morning,  and  put  on  the  fire  to  boil 
slowly  for  2  hours,  with  3  pints  of  water;  then  rub  through  a  colan- 
der. Put  in  the  kettle  again  and  add  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  and 
thicken  with  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  When  it  boils,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  with 
a  Toll  at  each  plate.     Time,  about  2^  hours. 

BEAN  PORRIDGE.— Soak  over  night  a  quart  of  any  kind  of 
good  beans,  such  as  are  used  for  baking;  boil  them  the  next  morning 
in  plenty  of  water,  until  they  begin  to  break  in  pieces;  then  drain, 
and  add  them  to  any  good  broth  of  fresh  or  salted  meat,  with  a  few 
slices  of  salt  pork  cut  in  dice.     Cook  and  stir  them  often,  until  they 


VEGETABLE  SOUPS  6'd 

are  all  broken  fine.  This  is  a  rtiost  nutritious  soup  to  keep  constantly 
on  hand  in  winter,  when  milk  is  scarce;  it  is  inexpensive,  for  the 
broth  of  all  salted  meats  and  "boiled  dinners"  can  be  used  in  prepar- 
ing it.  It  is  more  easily  digested  than  baked  beans,  being  less  con- 
centrated food.     Of  this  soup  it  was  said  in  "  olden  times;" 

"Bean  porridge  hot,  bean  porridge  cold, 
Bean  porridge  is  the  best  when  nine  days  old." 

CABBAGE  SOUP. — Cut  a  small  cabbage  in  quarters;  carefully 
take  apart  and  wash;  then  chop  finely.  About  |-  hour  before  dinner 
add  it  to  2  quarts  of  stock,  or  broth,  in  which  meat  has  been  boiled; 
let  it  boil  until  dinner  time,  when  the  cabbage  will  be  done.  Serve 
with  toasted  bread. 

CARROT  SOUP  (a  la  Cressy). — Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg  into  the  frying-pan,  and  when  melted,  add  1  large  onion 
cut  finely,  a  slice  of  ham  cut  in  little  squares,  a  teacup  of  chopped 
celery  and  10  grated  carrots.  Stew  over  the  fire  until  the  vegetables 
begin  to  brown,  then  add  2  quarts  of  stock,  and  simmer  for  2  hours. 
Rub  all  through  the  coarse  colander,  put  back  into  the  kettle  to  re= 
heat,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  with  a  few  dice  of 
toasted  bread  in  the  tureen.  This  is  good  made  with  3  pints  of 
water,  adding  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream  when  it  is  re=heated.  Time 
about  2^  hours. 

CELERY  SOUP — Break  apart,  and  carefully  clean  2  bunches 
of  celery;  then  cut  it  finely  and  boil  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  it, 
until  it  is  soft  enough  to  rub  through  a  coarse  colander;  scald  3  pints 
of  milk  and  add  to  the  celery,  and  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled, 
with  half  a  small  onion  cut  finely  if  liked;  then  rub  together  a  table- 
spoon each  of  butter  and  flour  and  stir  it  in  the  boiling  soup,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  serve  with  strips  of  toasted  bread 
without  butter,  or  with  browned  crackers.     Time,  about  1  hour. 

CELERY  CREAM  SOUP— Take  3  lbs.  veal,  and  let  it  simmer 
slowly  in  2  quarts  of  water  till  reduced  one=half ;  when  cold  it  will 
make  a  jelly4ike  white  stock.  Take  some  celery,  cut  the  best  parts 
small,  and  cook  it  until  tender  in  this  stock;  now  put  it  through  a 
colander  first,  and  then  through  a  coarse  sieve,  and  it  will  make  a 
kind  of  paste;  return  this  to  the  saucepan,  add  2  pints  of  cream,  sea. 
son  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  it  simmer  10  minutes,  stirring  it 
often.     It  is  excellent. 

GREEN  CORN  SOUP — Grate  sweet-'corn  from  6  ears,  and 
boil  the  cobs  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  them;  remove  them  after  10 


34  VEGETABLE  SOUPS 

minutes  boiling,  and  use  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled  to  stew 
the  grated  corn;  just  before  it  is  time  to  serve,  add  1  quart  of  rich, 
sweet  milk,  letting  it  boil  a  few  minutes.  Season  well  with  pepper 
and  salt.     Time,  about  ^  hour. 

CUCUMBER  SOUP.— Peel  the  cucumbers  (they  must  be  young 
enough  to  have  small,  fine  seeds)  and  put  in  a  kettle  to  boil  in  a  pint 
of  water;  when  soft,  rub  through  a  fine  colander  and  return  to  the 
kettle,  with  a  little  onion  if  liked,  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Add 
enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  quart;  when  hot,  add  a  little  corn= 
starch,  or  arrowroot  to  thicken  it,  and  serve  with  toasted  bread. 

FLEMISH    SOUP. 

5  heads  of  celery.  2  quarts  of  water. 

1  pint  of  cream.  10  medium-sized  potatoes. 

2  small  onions. 

Slice  the  onions,  celery  and  potatoes,  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan, 
with  just  sufficient  water  to  cover  them,  and  stew  them  until  they 
can  be  rubbed  through  a  fine  colander.  Keturn  to  the  kettle  with 
the  water,  and  let  it  boil  up;  season  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  or  a 
little  curry  powder;  have  the  cream  scalding  hot,  in  a  pitcher  stand- 
ing in  hot  water,  and  add  to  the  soup  just  before  serving.  If  onion 
is  disliked,  2  small  carrots  may  be  substituted  for  the  onions.  Make 
^  the  quantity  if  desired. 

OKRA  OR  GUMBO  SOUP.— The  foundation  for  this  should  be 
stock,  or  broth  made  of  a  chicken,  or,  what  is  better  even  for  any 
chicken  soup,  an  old  fowl.  Carefully  pluck,  draw,  singe  and  wash  the 
fowl;  cut  it  in  pieces,  cover  with  cold  water,  put  on  to  boil  up,  skim, 
and  then  place  the  kettle  where  it  will  slowly  cook.  A  little  salt  may 
be  added  if  the  fowl  is  young,  but  if  old,  simmer  for  an  hour  before 
adding  the  salt.  When  the  fowl  is  done,  take  up  the  breast,  thighs 
and  legs,  which  can  be  served  with  a  sauce  for  dinner,  or  made  into 
salad;  then  slowly  cook  the  remainder  of  the  fowl  to  "rags,"  after 
adding  pepper,  a  little  sweet  herbs,  and  a  trifle  of  cayenne,  and  an 
even  teaspoon  of  powdered  sassafras  leaves.  Strain  through  the  fine 
colander  and  return  to  the  kettle.  Add  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork,  if 
the  fowl  was  lean,  then  wash  and  slice  a  quart  of  green  okra  and  add 
to  the  soup;  cook  until  the  pork  and  okra  are  done.  Serve  with 
boiled  rice,  boiled  onions  and  rolls  or  bread. 

ITALIAN  SOUPS — These  are  made  by  adding  to  hot  stock,  either 
macaroni,  vermicelli,  semolina,  or  other  Italian  pastes.  They  should 
be  boiled  for  10  or  15  minutes  in  water  to  cover  them,  before  adding 


VEGETABLE  SOUPS  35 

them  to  the  stock.     Macaroni  and  vermicelli  are  best  cut  in  short 
pieces  about  |  inch  long,  before  being  added  to  soup. 

JULIENNE  SOUP.— For  a  soup  to  serve  for  5  or  6  persons,  take  2 
or  3  middling==sized  carrots  (only  the  red  parts),  a  middling-size  tur- 
nip, a  piece  of  celery=root,  the  core  of  a  lettuce,  some  sorrel  leaves,  an 
onion,  the  white  of  half  a  leek.  Rasp,  peel  or  pluck  these  vegetables 
according  to  their  nature;  wash,  drain  them,  and 
mince  them  to  "Julienne,"  that  is,  cut  them  in  thin 
fillets  about  an  inch  long;  carrots,  turnip,  celery 
and  lee>k,  all  in  equal  lengths.  Fry  the  onion  and 
leek  in  a  little  butter,  then  add  the  carrots,  tur- 
nips ard  celery,  raw  if  tender,  if  not,  blanch  them. 
Season  with  salt  and  a  little  sugar,  and  add  2 
quarts  of  good  stock.  Let  it  simmer  for  ^  hour 
before  g^erving.  ^^^^g. 

The  Leek  belongs  to  the  same  order  as  the  shallot,  gar- 
lic and  onion.     It  possesses  similar  properties  to  the  onion.     It  is  very  succulent 
and  wholisome,  but  to  prevent  tainting  the  breath  it  should  be  well  boiled. 

MOCK  BISQUE  SOUP.— Take  |  can  of  tomatoes  cook  until  ten- 
der, and  strain;  cook  2  pints  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  in  a  small 
sauce-p^in  cook  2  teaspoons  of  corn-starch  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
adding  (^nough  of  the  hot  milk  to  make  it  pour  easily;  now  stir  this 
into  the  boiling  milk  carefully,  and  boil  about  10  minutes.  Cut  4 
tablespo'  >ns  of  butter  in  small  pieces  and  add  it,  mixing  it  well,  and 
add  also  the  strained  tomatoes,  ^  saltspoon  of  white  pepper,  and  1 
teaspoon  of  salt;  serve  hot.  Before  straining  the  tomatoes,  if  they 
are  very  =icid,  ^  saltspoon  of  soda  will  improve  them,  by  neutralizing 
the  acid. 

MUSHROOM  SOUP.— Cut  a  hip  of  veal  in  rather  large  pieces 
and  break  the  bones;  allow  to  each  pound  a  little  less  than  a  quart  of 
water.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  ^  dozen  blades  of  mace. 
Boil  until  the  meat  falls  to  pieces;  then  strain  into  a  clean  soup=pot. 
Have  ready  a  quart  of  mushrooms,  peeled  and  divested  of  their 
stems;  put  them  into  the  soup,  adding  ^  pound  of  butter  divided  into 
bits,  each  bit  rolled  in  flour.  Boil  until  the  mushrooms  are  tender, 
about  20  to  30  minutes;  keep  closely  covered;  have  toasted  bread  in 
small  pieces  in  the  soup4ureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over  it. 

NOODLE  SOUP — Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  until  light;  add  flour 
and  a  little  salt.  Mould  very  stiff,  then  roll  thin,  and  cut  in  narrow 
strips,  about  an  inch  long.  Put  in  boiling  water  for  10  minutes, 
then  in  cold  water  for  3  minutes.     Add  this  to  3  pints  of  hot  stock, 


36  VEGETABLE  SOUPS 

ONION  SOUP. — Put  a  piece  of  butt.er  the  size  of  an  egg  into 
a  sauce=pan,  or  spider,  and  slice  1  medium  sized  onion  into  it;  let 
it  fry  until  a  delicate  brown.  Put  in  1  quart  of  stock  or  hot  water, 
with  herbs  if  liked,  salt,  white  pepper,  and  a  dust  of  cayenne. 
Strain  into  the  tureen,  add  3  crackers,  halved  and  well  toasted,  and 
send  to  the  table. 

PALESTINE  SOUP — Peel  and  slice  a  quart  of  Jerusalem  arti- 
chokes, 4  onions  and  1  head  of  celery.  Have  3  pints  of  water  in  the 
soup=kettle,  or  white  veal  stock  or  broth;  add  the  vegetables,  with 
pepper,  salt,  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar;  boil  till  tender, 
rub  through  the  fine  colander,  and  return  to  the  kettle  to  keep  hot; 
add  a  pint  of  cream,  and  send  to  the  table  hot,  with  croutons.  Time, 
about  1  hour. 

CANADIAN  PEA  SOUP — Put  a  quart  of  whole  hard  peas,  or 
split  peas,  in  2  quarts  of  cold  soft  water,  and  set  on  the  fire  in  the 
morning.  Let  it  boil,  and  as  soon  as  the  peas  begin  to  soften,  mash 
with  a  long-handled  iron  spoon,  as  much  as  possible,  and  skim  off 
the  skins  as  they  rise  to  the  top  of  the  kettle.  About  10  o'clock  add 
to  the  peas  a  pound  or  more  of  salt  pork,  and  if  liked,  a  small  onion 
cut  finely.  Boil  together  until  noon,  then  take  out  the  pork,  add  a 
little  salt  if  needed,  and  a  bowlful  of  bread,  finely  shaved  from  the 
loaf,  which  thickens  the  soup  and  prevents  the  peas  from  settling  to 
the  bottom  of  the  tureen.  This  is  a  most  nutritious  and  palatable 
soup.  The  pork  can  be  served  in  thin  slices,  with  vegetables,  and 
chili  sauce,  or  sour  baked  ap]ples. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP — Into  the  broth  in  which  a  leg  of  lamb  has 
been  boiled,  put  the  shells  of  a  quart  of  tender  young  peas;  let  them 
boil  in  the  broth  for  ^  hour,  then  strain  out  the  shells  and  put  in  the 
peas  to  boil  20  minutes  longer.  Serve  with  any  "soup-addition" 
liked. 

POTATO  SOUP. — Slice  6  large  potatoes  and  boil  until  tender; 
mash  fine  and  rub  through  a  colander  into  the  soup  ^kettle;  add  2 
quarts  of  sweet  milk.  When  it  comes  to  boiling,  add  noodles 
already  boiled  in  salt  water.     Season  the  soup  to  taste  and  serve. 

PUMPKIN  SOUP — Peel  the  pumpkin  and  cut  into  pieces  (re- 
moving the  seeds).  Put  it  into  boiling  water  with  some  salt,  and 
leave  it  to  boil  until  reduced  to  a  pulp  thin  enough  to  pass  through 
a  strainer.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  sauce=pan  with  a  wine=glass 
of  cream.  Strain  the  pulj)  and  add,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  a  pinch  of  flour.  Let  the  whole  simmer  \  hour,  thicken  with 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  serve. 


VEGETABLE  SOUPS  37 

RICE  SOUP — Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  1 
cup  of  bread  crumbs  in  a  skillet,  and  fry  tliem  as  thoroughly  brown 
as  possible  without  burning.  When  sufficiently  browned,  pour  on 
3  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  add  a  pint  of  rice,  a  head  of  finely 
cut  celery,  and  a  little  salt.  Stew  all  together  until  the  rice  is  ten- 
der. Add  a  cup  of  rich  milk  or  cream,  and  serve.  Half  the  above 
quantity  will  serve  a  small  family. 

SAQO  SOUP — Wash  |  cup  of  sago  in  warm  water,  set  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  2  quarts  of  milk,  and  simmer  until  the  sago  is  thor- 
oughly dissolved;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  add  a  cup  of 
cream  before  serving  Good  clear  stock  is  generally  used  for  both 
sago  and  tapioca  soup,  but  they  are  even  nicer  made  with  milk. 

FOR  SEMOLINA,   MACARONI  AND  VERMICELLI  SOUP,  see 

"Italian  Soups." 

FRENCH  SORREL  SOUP— Take  a  large  handful  of  garden 
sorrel;  wash  thoroughly,  and  cut  finely  with  shears,  and  add  some 
lettuce  leaves  and  sweet  h'erbs,  also  finely  cut.  Drain  thoroughly  on 
a  sieve,  then  put  them  in  a  frying-pan  xnth.  butter  already  melted, 
and  fry,  stirring  with  a  spoon.  After  about  10  minutes  of  cooking 
in  this  way,  put  in  the  soup-kettle,  with  2  quarts  of  boiling  water, 
and  add  salt,  white  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter  well 
rolled  in  flour.  Serve  rolls  with  the  soup;  hard 
boiled  eggs,  sliced  into  the  tureen,  are  an  addition 
much  liked. 

The  SoBKEii-  (Rumex  Aeetosa)  is  a  hardy  perennia,, 
which  grows  in  Europe,  Asiatic  Russia  and  North  America. 
It  grows  in  any  good  garden  soil,  and  when  fully  grown,  the 
leaves  are  gathered  singly,  and  they  are  used  to  flavor  soups, 
salads  and  sauces.  Sorrel  was  known  to  the  Romans,  who 
sometimes  stewed  it  with  mustard,  and  seasoned  it  with  a 
little  oil  and  vinegar.  It  is  not  much  used  in  English  and 
American  cookery,  but  is  used  considerably  in  France.  Its 
acid,  which  is  very  pronounced,  is  a  combination  of  oxalic 
acid  ^ith -potash,  called  hj  chemists,  binoxalate  of  potash.  soiujel. 

TAPIOCA  SOUP — Make  like  sago  soup,  given  above,  only  the 
tapioca  must  be  soaked  for  at  least  |  hour  in  warm  water  before 
being  put  into  the  milk. 

TOMATO  SOUP — Put  1  quart  of  tomatoes  in  1  quart  of  boiling 
water  and  let  them  cook  thoroughly;  set  1  quart  of  milk  in  a  pitcher 
or  tin,  into  a  kettle  or  pan  of  hot  water  to  scald.  When  the  tomatoes 
are  done,  add  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  when  foaming  ceases,  add  the 
hot  milk  with  a  generous  lump  of  butter;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Cream   may   be   added   instead   of  butter,   and  more  milk  and  less 


38 


VEGETABLE  SOUPS 


water  used  if  desired.  Brown  a  few  crackers,  roll  fine  and  add  to 
the  soup.  Serve  with  small  pieces  of  dry  toast  without  butter. 
Time,  about  30  to  40  minutes. 

TOMATO  SOUP  No.   2 One  pint  of  canned  tomatoes,  or  4 

raw  ones,  cut  finely;  add  1  quart  of  water  and  cook  thoroughly — 
about  ^  hour;  then  add  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  which  causes  it  to  foam. 
Immediately  add  1  pint  of  sweet  milk  with  a  little  salt  and  butter. 
When  this  boils,  add  8  small  crackers,  rolled  fine,  and  serve. 

MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP — Soak  over  night  1  pint  of  black 
beans.  The  next  day  boil  them  in  2  quarts  of  water,  until  soft 
enough  to  rub  through  a  colander;  return  them  to  the  soup=kettle. 
Tie  in  a  bit  of  strainer  cloth  (which  must  be  perfectly  clean)  a 
bit  each  of  thyme,  parsley  and  summer  savory;  let  it  boil  in  the 
soup.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  cut  in  bits  and  rolled  in  flour; 
also  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cut  the  yolks  of 
hard  boiled  eggs  in  quarters  and  add  to  the 
soup,  with  one  sliced  lemon,  A  good  imitation 
of  real  turtle  soup. 

The  Thyme  is  a  native  of  Spain  and  Italy,  and  was 
well  known  to  the  Romans.  Its  leaves  possess  an  agree- 
able and  highly  aromatic  flavor,  and  are  used,  in  both  a 
green  and  a  dried  state,  to  season  soups,  sauces,  stuflBngs, 
etc.,  but  a  little  of  it  goes  a  long  ways.  The  Lemon  Thyme 
is  a  variety  of  the  wild  thyme,  remarkable  for  its  smell, 
which  closely  resembles  the  rind  of  a  lemon, 

LEMON  THYME, 

VEGETABLE  MARROW  SOUP— Pare  and  cut  in  quarters  a 
large  vegetable  marrow,  and  remove  the  seeds  from  it.  Dissolve  a 
slice  of  fresh  butter  in  a  stew  pan,  and  put  in  the 
marrow  with  a  little  salt,  pepper,  a  lump  of  loaf 
sugar  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Stew  in  water  to  cover 
it  until  it  will  jjass  through  a  fine  colander,  or  ^>J^,  tVill2\'^ 
hair-sieve;  then  add  enough  scalding  hot  milk  to  f^mf  \W^ 
make  it  the  consistency  of  cream;  serve  with  fried 
bread  cut  in  small  dice. 

Vegetable  Mabeow  belongs  to  the  gourd  tribe,  and  was 
first  introduced  from  Persia.  It  has  a  delicate  flavor  and  is 
easily  digested.  One  of  the  simplest  and  best  ways  of  cook- 
ing is  to  boil  them  and  serve  with  a  sauce  poured  over  them.      vegetable  makrow. 

VICTORIA  SOUP.— Wash  and  scald  I  pound  of  pearl  barley; 
put  it  in  the  soup  pot  with  3  pints  of  white  veal  stock,  and  simmer 
gently  over  a  slow  fire  for  1^  hours,  by  which  time  the  barley  will  be 
nearly  dissolved;  remove  \  of  it  to  a  small  soup^pot,  rub  the  remain- 


MEAT,  POULTRY  AND  GAME  SOUPS  39 

der  through  a  tammy  or  sieve,  pour  over  the  whole  barley,  add  half  a 
pint  of  cream  season  with  a  little  salt,  stir  it  over  the  fire  until  hot, 
and  serve. 

This  soup  may  be  made  with  rice,  and  these  were  the  only  soups 
eaten  by  Queen  Victoria  during  the  time  Francatelli  was  chef  in  her 
household. 

WHITE  SOUP. — White  soup  is  in  reality  white  sauce,  only  in 
larger  quantities  and  not  quite  so  strong.  White  soups,  such  as  cel- 
ery, cauliflower,  Palestine,  potato,  vegetable  marrow,  have  all  the 
same  basis,  viz.,  reduced  stock  and  boiling  milk,  and  only  differ  as  to 
which  stewed  vegetable  is  rubbed  through  the  wire  sieve  and  added, 


MEAT,  POULTRY  AND  GAME  SOUPS. 

ALMA  MATER  SOUP — Take  a  sheep's  head  and  pluck. 
Have  the  head  cut  in  several  pieces  with  a  cleaver,  wash  thoroughly 
in  salted  water  and  put  in  the  soup-kettle  with  a  gallon  of  water;  cut 
the  liver  and  heart  in  slices,  and  fry  brown  in  a  little  butter,  then 
add  to  the  soup;  simmer  gently  until  the  bones  separate  from  the 
meat;  take  from  the  fire,  and  remove  all  the  bones  from  the  meat;  cut 
the  meat  in  very  small  pieces,  and  return  to  the  kettle;  fill  in  with 
hot  water  to  keep  the  gallon,  add  1  teacup  of  pearl  barley;  season 
with  4  cloves,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs;  cut  finely  2 
onions,  2  carrots,  1  turnip,  and  cook  until  the  vegetables  are  done. 
Serve  with  forcemeat  balls. 

BEEF  SOUP. — Put  1  small  beef  bone  in  about  1  gallon  or 
water;  when  it  has  simmered  about  3  hours,  add  4  potatoes,  2  tur- 
nips, 2  onions,  and  2  tablespoons  each  of  rice  and  barley;  season 
with  salt  and  white  pepper,  and  boil  1  hour  longer.  Add  one  table- 
spoon of  chopped  celery  just  before  serving. 

'  BOUILLON — For  a  party  of  12,  allow  6  pounds  of  beef  cut 
finely,  and  2  shinbones  of  beef  well  broken.  Put  over  the  fire  with 
3  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Skim  thoroughly,  and  set 
back  on  the  range  to  simmer  slowly  for  5  hours;  then  strain  through 
the  fine  colander.  Eemove  every  particle  of  fat,  which  can  be  done 
by  drawing  the  edge  of  blotting  paper  across  the  bouillon.  After  the 
fat  is  removed,  return  to  the  kettle  and  re^heat.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  serve  in  bouillon  cups  (/.  <?.,  cups  about  the  size  of  cof- 
fee-cups, with  2  handles)  when  served  at  lunches.  Cloudy  bouillon 
is  caused  generally  by  rapid  boiling  and  careless  skimming. 


4U  MEAT,  POULTRY  AND  GAME  SOUPS 

CLEAR  SOUP. — Cut  4  lbs.  lean  beef  into  small  pieces,  carefully 
removing  all  the  fat;  jjour  on  1  gallon  of  water,  and  boil  it  up  three 
times,  skimming  well  each  time;  if  not  well  skimmed,  it  will  not  be 
clear.  Into  each  of  2  small  onions  stick  4  cloves  firmly,  scrape  2 
small  carrots,  and  put  them  into  the  soup;  add  6  blades  of  mace,  1 
bunch  of  parsley  and  1  teaspoon  of  celery  seed,  salt  and  pepper;  boil 
until  the  vegetables  are  tender,  strain  through  muslin,  and  return  to 
the  soup^pot;  add  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  boil  until 
they  gather  to  one  side;  skim  and  tint  it  a  delicate  amber  .with  £ 
little  caramel;  wash  the  muslin,  pour  through  again,  and  serve. 

Maoe  is  the  membrane  which  surrounds  the  nut- 
meg. This  membrane  is  removed,  and  when  dried 
and  flattened  it  forms  the  mace  of  commerce.  It  con- 
tains about  4:  per  cent,  of  an  aromatic  oil,  and  its 
general  properties  are  similar  to  the  nutmeg.  A 
coarse  and  inferior  article  from  a  different  tree  is 
sometimes  palmed  off  for  the  genuine  mace. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. — This  need  not  be  made  wholly  of  young 
spring  chickens,  for  they  are  more  valuable  for  roasting  or  broiling; 
but  the  remnants  of  raw  chickens  when  used  for  fricassee  or  "  chicken 
supreme,"  can  be  utilized  in  a  soup,  and  if  a  large  quantity  of  soup 
is  needed,  a  few  pounds  of  veal  bones  and  cheap  veal  trimmings  may 
be  simmered  with  the  chicken,  which  will  flavor  them  all.  Let  the 
6oup=pot  come  to  boiling;  skim,  and  then  set  on  the  back  of  the 
range  to  slowly  simmer  for  3  or  4  hours,  or  until  the  meat  drops  from 
the  bones.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  or  a  little  curry  powder 
instead  of  pepper,  and  a  soup^bunch;  then  simmer  10  minutes  longer, 
strain  through  the  cloth  strainer,  and  return  to  the  kettle.  Thicken 
with  a  little  corn=starch,  and  color  and  flavor  with  caramel.  Serve 
with  oyster  crackers. 

Chicken  Soup  No.  2. — Take  the  remnants  of  roasted  chickens— the 
necks,  wings,  all  the  bones,  and  every  part  left  from  dinner  the  day 
previous;  add  water  sufficient  to  cover  it  all;  slowly  simmer  until 
the  meat  separates  from  the  bones.  Then  add  any  gravy  or  rem- 
nants of  dressing,  and  let  it  boil  up  once.  For  the  remnants  of  2 
chickens  there  should  be  8  pints  of  soup;  strain  through  cheese-cloth 
or  fine  colander,  put  the  souj)  back  into  the  kettle,  add  more  season- 
ing if  needed;  thicken  with  bits  of  butter  well  rolled  in  flour;  boil  up 
once,  and  serve  immediately. 

CHICKEN  AND  GUMBO — Take  a  fair  sized  chicken,  cut  up  as 
for  fricassee,  pick  out  the  bones,  and  fry  with  ^  lb.  finely  chopped 
bacon.    Add  1  gallon  water,  2  pints  small  okras,  and  the  same   of 


MEAT,  POULTRY  AND  GAME  SOUPS  41 

tomatoes;  season  highly  with  white  pepper,  salt  and  cayenne,  and 
Bimmer  4:  hours.  Put  1  tablespoon  of  boiled  rice  in  each  plate  before 
serving,  and  pour  the  soup  over  it. 

Gumbo  File  is  made  the  same  way,  but  seasoned  more  highly,  and 
tender  shoots  and  leaves  of  young  sassafras  added  (dried  and 
pounded).     Green  corn,  and  lima  beans  are  also  added  sometimes. 

CONSOMME. 

5  quarts  of  water.  2  turnips. 

2  carrots.  1  bunch  of  herbs. 

2  leeks.  2  old  fowls. 

i  pounds  of  lean  beef.  2  onions. 

Let  it  simmer  slowly  for  8  hours,  or  till  it  is  reduced  to  2  quarts. 
Observe  the  nsual  rule  of  skimming,  straining  and  seasoning,  and 
use  for  dainty  appetites,  with  quenelles,  or  any  garnish  liked  best. 

DUCHESS  SOUP. — Put  a  quart  of  rich  stock,  or  consommS, 
on  the  range  to  heat;  when  it  comes  to  boiling,  thicken  it  with  a 
tablespoon  of  arrowroot,  and  then  pour  it  into  the  tureen  containing 
neatly  cut  lengths  of  roasted  poultry  or  game. 

EQQ  SOUP. — Break  6  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl;  add  a  pint  of 
sweet  cream  and  a  little  white  pepper  and  salt;  beat  the  eggs  well  and 
add  the  cream ;  pour  into  a  square  tin  well  buttered,  and  place  it  in 
the  oven  in  a  dripping-pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  about  |  hour.  Let  it 
get  cold,  then  cut  in  small  squares,  put  in  the  soup  tureen,  pour  2 
quarts  of  hot  stock,  or  broth,  over  it,  and  send  it  to  the  table.  Milk 
may  be  used  instead  of  stock.  This  souid  is  rich  and  may  be  served 
with  hot  toasted  crackers  when  the  dinner  is  otherwise  light. 

Egg  Soup  No.  2. — When  you  have  a  broth  in  which  meat  has  been 
boiled,  or  poultry,  even  if  thin  and  not  transparent,  a  good  soup  may 
be  made  when  eggs  are  plenty  by  boiling  for  20  minutes,  4  eggs  for 
every  quart  of  broth.  Throw  the  eggs  in  cold  water,  and  shell  them. 
Have  the  broth  well  strained,  and  put  it  back  in  the  kettle.  Cut  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  in  rings,  and  pulverize  the  yolks  with  a  fork  on  a 
plate  (they  should  be  mealy  with  the  boiling)  and  add  whites  and 
yolks  to  the  broth,  also  a  few  bits  of  butter  well  rolled  in  flour.  Do 
not  boil  after  the  egg  mixture  is  put  in  the  kettle. 

EVERY=DAY  SOUP — Go  in  the  jpantry  in  the  morning  and  put 
into  the  soup  kettle  all  the  nice  meat  bones,  cold  bits  of  meat,  cold 
gravy,  also  any  cooked  vegetables  left  the  day  before.  Get  ready  the 
meat  for  dinner,  and  put  the  trimmings  in  the  kettle.  Season  with  a 
little  salt,  a  few  whole  cloves,  and  a  few  pepper=corns  broken  in  the 
mortar;  add  also  a  small  onion  cut  finely.     Put  in  the  kettle  enough 


42  MEAT,  POULTRY  AND  GAME  SOUPS 

water  to  serve  each  person  with  -|  pint  of  soup.  Simmer  all  together 
until  an  hour  before  dinner;  then  strain  and  return  to  the  kettle. 
Have  ready,  shredded,  and  standing  in  cold  water,  some  vegetable, 
either  cabbage,  turnips,  carrots,  asparagus,  green  peas  or  spinach, 
and  add  to  the  soup.  When  the  vegetable  is  done,  serve  with  rolls  or 
bread. 

FLORENCE  SOUP.— Put  on  to  heat,  3  pints  of  white  stock, 
beef,  veal  or  chicken  broth,  and  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  1  cup  of  cream;  boil  3  or  4  sticks  of  macaroni  in  salted  water  for 
10  minutes;  cut  in  ^  inch  pieces  and  add  to  the  soup;  have  the  bot- 
tom of  the  soup  tureen  covered  with  grated  cheese,  pour  over  the  hot 
soup,  and  serve. 

GAME  SOUP. — This  can  be  made  of  a  squirrel,  wild  duck,  rab= 
bit,  partridge,  2  or  3  squabs  (young  jjigeons)  or  any  kind  of  game 
brought  in,  in  too  small  a  quantity  for  serving  in  any  other  way,  and 
is  a  good  soup  for  an  invalid,  or  small  family.  Dress  the  game  by 
skinning,  if  a  quadruped,  or,  by  picking,  if  a  fowl  or  bird.  Draw, 
and  wipe  clean  with  a  v/et  cloth.  Cut  in  small  pieces  and  boil  gently 
2  or  3  hours,  or  until  the  meat  separates  from  the  bones;  then  take 
out  the  bones  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Cut  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  in  small  bits,  roll  each  bit  in  flour;  add,  and  let  it 
boil  for  ^  minute,  and  serve  with  thin  slices  of  bread  laid  on  the  bot- 
tom of  the  tureen. 

Game  soup  can  also  be  made  by  one  of  our  recipes  for  stock, 
using  game  instead  of  beef  or  other  meat. 

HOTCH=POTCH  SOUP — Soak  |-  pint  of  split  peas  over  night 
and  add  ^  teaspoon  of  soda  to  the  water;  the  next  morning,  turn  off 
the  water  and  rinse  again;  then  put  them  to  boil  in  2  quarts  of  water; 
boil  slowly  2  or  3  hours;  then  add  a  pound  of  beef  or  mutton,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  a  small  cabbage,  an  onion,  all  cut 
finely,  and  3  or  4  large  slices  of  salt  pork.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  cook  until  the  meat  is  done,  keeping  it  just  covered  with 
water.  This  is  fine  in  a  cold  day  in  the  winter,  and  is  an  inexpensive 
dinner  by  itself,  without  other  meat. 

MEAT  BROTH — Put  the  beef  or  mutton  on  in  cold  water  and 
let  it  heat  slowly;  a  scum  will  rise  when  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point; 
remove  thin  very  carefully,  then  cover  the  pot,  and  keep  it  at  a  gentle 
simmer;  'Irom  time  to  time  lift  the  cover  and  skim  till  no  more  scum 
rises.  Take  out  the  meat  when  thoroughly  cooked — in  2  or  3  hours. 
Set  the  meat  in  the  oven  to  keep  it  warm,  with  the  door  of  the  oveD 


MEAT,  POULTRY  AND  GAME  SOUPS 


43 


open  a  little  way.  Have  some  tliin  slices  of  toasted  bread  well  butter- 
ed, or  some  browned  crackers  in  the  tureen,  and  after  pouring  the 
broth  through  the  cloth  strainer,  pour  over  the  tureen  and  serve. 
Instead  of  the  toast,  a  little  chopped  cabbage,  boiled  in  a  separate 
stew-pan  can  be  added,  or  any  other  vegetable  liked. 

MULLAGATAWNY  SOUP. 

1  fowl  or  rabbit,  or  2  lbs.  of  lean     2  large  onions. 


A  bit  of  garlic  (or  2  or  8 

cloves). 
2  quarts  of  cold  water. 


beef  or  veal. 

1  bunch  of  herbs. 

2  tablespoons  of  curry  powder. 
Peal  of  1  lemon. 

Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces  and  cover  with  the  water;  slice  the 
onions,  fry  them  brown  in  beef  drippings,  and  put  the  onions,  lemon 
peel,  herbs,  and  cloves  or  garlic,  with  the  meat,  and  simmer  slowly 
for  5  hours,  skimming  well;  then  strain  through  the  fine  colander. 
Return  to  the  kettle,  add  salt  to  taste  and  ground  white  pepper,  and 
a  teacup  of  rice.  When  the  rice  begins  to  break 
in  pieces,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  2  table- 
spoons of  curry  powder. 

MuUagatawny  means  "pepper  pot,"  and  it  is  an  Indian 
soup.  It  always  requires  to  be  well  seasoned,  and  rice  should 
be  served  with  it. 

Gablio  is  an  eastern  plant  which  has  been  cultivated 
from  ancient  times.  It  belongs  to  the  same  family  as  the 
onion,  and  it  posseses  its  properties  in  an  intensified  degree. 
It  is  much  used  in  Italian,  Spanish  and  French  cookery,  but 
very  little  in  English  and  American.  It  is  very  wholesome, 
assists  digestion,  and  acts  as  a  slight  stimulant  and  tonic. 
It  possesses  much  medicinal  value.  As  a  rule  in  using  garlic 
it  is  not  chopped  but  the  flavor  is  imparted  simply  by  rub- 
bing; cut  a  little  off  the  end  of  the  garlic,  and  rub  it  on  the  gaelio. 
dish  in  which  the  food  to  be  flavored  is  placed. 

•  MUTTON  BROTH.— Take  2  lbs.  of  what  is  known  as  the  scrags 
end  of  the  neck  of  mutton;  remove  as  much  as  possible  every  parti- 
cle of  fat.  Put  it  in  a  quart  of  cold  water,  with  a  slice  of  onion  and 
a  saltspoon  of  salt.  Let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  3  or  4  hours;  skim 
occasionally.  Strain  off  the  broth  and  allow  it  to  cool.  Take  off  all 
fat,  and  warm  up  when  required.  When  not  required  for  invalids, 
some  chopped  parsley  may  be  added  to  the  broth,  as  well  as  other 
vegetables,  such  as  turnips,  carrots,  or  leeks. 

OXTAIL  SOVP.—{Eich  beef  souj)) .—Tvio  shin=bones  of  beef  well 
broken,  and  2  beef=tails  cut  in  short  pieces.  Put  in  the  soup  kettle 
with  3  quarts  of  water.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  carefully  skim; 
then  slowly  simmer  until  the  meat  will  separate  from  the  bones. 
Take  out  the  meat  and  bones  with  a  skimmer  into  a  pan,  and  cut  the 


44  MEAT,  POULTKY  AND  GAME  SOUPS 

meat  in  small  pieces,  putting  back  the  bones  to  simmer  until  an  hour 
before  dinner;  then  take  out  the  bones  again  and  add  a  carrot,  a 
small  turnip,  a  small  onion,  all  cut  finely,  with  herbs,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  if  preferred,  a  tablespoon  of  any  of  the  ready=made  meat 
sauces  liked  by  the  family.  Fry  the  bits  of  meat  a  nice  brown,  in  a 
little  butter,  and  place  in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen;  pour  the  soup 
and  vegetables  over  the  meat  and  send  it  to  the  table.  Serve  with- 
rolls,  bread,  or  toasted  crackers.  The  ingredients  of  this  soup  may 
be  all  simmered  together  for  4  or  5  hours,  then  strained  through  the 
cloth  strainer.  A  tablespoon  of  corn^starch  in  a  little  water  may  be) 
added  for  thickening,  and  a  tablespoon  of  caramehsugar  used  for  col- 
oring.    Sufficient  for  8. 

RABBIT  SOUP. — Out  a  young  rabbit  in  small  pieces  and  soak 
in  water  for  an  hour;  then  put  in  the  soup=pot,  and  cook  until  the 
meat  separates  from  the  bones.  Take  all  the  best  meat,  and  return 
the  remainder  to  the  kettle,  with  a  carrot,  turnip,  onion,  and  2  or  3 
sticks  of  celery,  all  cut  finely,  with  seasoning  to  taste,  and  simmer 
for  2  hours  longer;  then  strain  the  soup  and  return  to  the  kettle;  add 
a  piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of  an  English  walnut,  cut  in  pieces 
and  rolled  in  flour,  to  thicken  it.  There  should  be  3  quarts  of  broth 
when  done.  Out  the  meat  in  small  pieces,  put  in  the  tureen,  and 
pour  over  the  hot  rabbit  soup. 

TURKEY  SOUP — After  a  turkey  has  been  served  for  dinner 
and  the  meat  has  been  taken  from  the  carcass,  break  all  the  bones 
finely  and  put  in  the  soup^kettle,  with  any  remaining  dressing  or 
gravy,  and  add  3  quarts  of  water  if  the  turkey  was  large  —  less  for  a 
small  one.  Let  boil  slowly  for  2  or  3  hours;  then  pour  through  a 
coarse  colander,  and  serve  with  toasted  crackers. 

MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP— Scald  a  calf's  head,  and  wash  it  clean. 
Boil  in  a  large  pot  of  water  for  ^  hour,  then  cut  all  the  skin  ofiF 
by  itself;  take  the  tongue  out,  take  the  broth  made  of  a  knuckle 
of  veal,  put  in  the  tongue  and  skin,  with  an  onion,  ^  ounce  each  of 
cloves  and  mace,  ^  a  nutmeg,  all  kinds  of  sweet  herbs  chopped  fine, 
3  anchovies;  stew  it  till  tender;  then  take  out  the  meat,  and  cut  it  in 
pieces  2  inches  square;  cut  the  tongue,  previously  skinned,  in  slices; 
strain  the  liquor  through  a  sieve.  Melt  ^  lb.  butter  in  a  stew-pan; 
put  in  i  lb.  flour;  stir  it  till  smooth;  if  at  all  lumpy,  strain  it;  add 
the  liquor,  stirring  it  all  the  time;  then  add  to  the  meat  the  juice  of 
2  lemons.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  pretty 
high;  put  in  5  meat  balls,  8  eggs,  boiled  hard.     Stew  it  1  hour  gently. 


FISH  AND  SHELL=FISH  SOUPS  45 

VEAL  SOUP — Into  4  quarts  of  water  put  a  3  lb.  joint  of 
veal,  well  broken,  and  set  on  the  stove  to  boil.  In  a  separate  dish 
put  ^  lb.  of  macaroni,  with  just  water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  boil  till 
tender;  then  add  a  little  butter.  Finally  the  souid  should  be  strained, 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  afterwards  add  the  macaroni  and 
the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled.  Many  will  find  it  an  improvement 
to  add  1  pint  of  cream,  or  rich  milk,  and  celery  flavor. 


FISH  AND  SHELL=FISH  SOUPS. 

BOSTON  SOUP — Any  kind  of  fish  may  be  used  for  this  dish. 
Chop  2  onions,  and  put  them  with  a  piece  of  butter  into  a  stew==pan 
and  let  them  brown  without  burning.  Then  arrange  the  fish  which 
has  been  previously  cut  into  small  pieces,  in  the  pan.  Add  a  small 
quantity  of  the  best  olive  oil,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  bayleaf ,  two  slices 
of  lemon,  2  tomatoes,  and  as  much  powdered  saffron  as  v/ill  go  on  the 
point  of  a  table=knife,  and  lastly  the  juice  of  the  remainder  of  the 
lemon.  Put  in  sufficient  stock  to  cover  the  whole,  and  boil  from  10 
to  20  minutes,  skimming  carefully  the  whole  time. 
When  ready  to  serve,  throw  in  a  handful  of 
chopped  parsley. 

Bay  Leaves  are  taken  from  a  species  of  laurel,  L.  Nobil- 
is.  It  is  a  native  of  Asia  Minor,  but  is  cultivated  as  a 
handsome  evergreen.  The  leaves  are  large,  shining  and 
lance*shaped,  and  are  bitter,  aromatic,  and  narcotic.  They 
are  used  by  cooks  and  confectioners  because  of  their  agree- 
able flavor.  Most  of  the  dried  figs  imported  into  this 
country  are  packed  in  bay  leaves.  The  laurel  among  the 
Greeks  was  sacred  to  Apollo,  and  from  it  the  garlands 
were  made  which  were  placed  on  the  heads  of  heroes  and 
poets.  ^HE  3^Y. 

BISQUE  OF  LOBSTER— Wash  thoroughly  with  a  brush,  a 
small  lobster,  then  remove  all  the  solid  meat  and  x)ut  it  on  ice.  Break 
finely  the  shell  and  claws  of  the  lobster,  and  put  it  in  the  soup^ket- 
tle  with  enough  water  to  cover  it.  Cut  finely,  and  add  a  small  carrot, 
1  head  of  celery,  and  a  very  small  onion  or  bit  of  garlic,  with  herbs, 
salt  and  white  pepper,  to  taste.  Boil  1  hour  and  then  strain;  put 
back  in  the  kettle  and  add  3  pints  of  stock.  Set  it  on  the  range 
where  it  will  keep  hot  but  not  boil,  as  boiling  causes  it  to  curdle. 
Just  before  serving,  cut  the  meat  of  the  lobster  in  small  pieces  and 
fry  brown  in  a  little  butter,  and  place  in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen. 
Add  to  the  bisque  the  juice  of  -^  a  lemon,  and  a  dust  of  cayenne  pep- 


46  FISH  AND  SHELL^FISH  SOUPS 

per,  and  pour  over  the  meat  in  the  tureen.  Serve  with  a  French  roll 
at  each  plate,  or  with  browned  crackers. 

CLAM  SOUP.— Put  25  clams  in  boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes. 

Then  open  them  and  save  the  liquor  that  comes  from  them;  add  to  it 
an  equal  quantity  of  water,  1  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley,  1  chop- 
ped onion,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  cut  in  bits  and  rolled  in 
flour;  j)epper  and  salt  to  taste,  2  well  beaten  eggs  and  the  chopped 
clams,  adding  lastly  1  pint  of  milk.  Boil  10  minutes.  A  very  nice 
soup.  (It  is  better  to  add  the  eggS  to  this  soup  the  last  thing  before 
taking  up,  as  the  egg  is  apt  to  curdle,  if  boiled. ) 

NEWPORT  CLAM  CHOWDER.— Wash  the  clams  thoroughly 
with  boiling  water,  aud  let  them  stand  10  minutes,  when  they  can 
easily  be  removed  from  the  shell.  Cut  ofp  the  black  heads  and  put 
the  bodies  in  a  clean  dish.  For  a  peck  of  clams  use  8  large  jpotatoes, 
peeled  and  sliced  thin,  and  |  an  onion  cut  in  small  pieces.  Cut  ^ 
pound  of  salt  pork  into  small  j^ieces  and  fry  brown.  Put  the  onion 
and  potatoes  into  the  kettle  with  the  pork,  with  a  tablespoon  of  salt, 
a  little  pepper  and  |  a  cup  of  flour  shaken  in;  strain  on  this  4  quarts 
of  the  water  in  which  the  clams  were  scalded,  and  let  all  boil  15  min- 
utes; then  add  the  clams,  6  crackers  split,  ^  cup  of  tomato  sauce; 
cook  10  minutes  longer,  and  serve. 

SALT  CODFISH  SOUP.— Take  a  piece  of  codfish  the  size  of  the 
hand,  scald,  skin,  and  pick  in  small  pieces,  and  put  in  a  kettle  with  a 
quart  of  water;  soak,  and  change  the  water  until  it  is  fresh  enough; 
then  add  1  pint  of  cream  and  1  pint  of  water  and  let  it  come  to  boil- 
ing.    Serve  it  with  buttered,  toasted  crackers. 

FISH  SOUP.— Take  any  kind  of  fresh  fish  liked  best— about  2 
pounds  for  3  quarts  of  water.  Cut  in  small  pieces  and  put  in  the 
soup=pot — skin,  bones  and  all — with  a  large  onion,  sliced,  a  bunch  of 
parsley,  a  sliced  lemon,  with  a  little  salt  and  white  pepper.  Cook  to 
rags;  then  strain  through  the  cloth  strainer,  and  return  to  the  kettle. 
Add  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  corn=starch  wet  in  half  a  teacup  of 
water;  let  it  come  to  boiling,  and  serve  with  quenelles,  if  desired. 
Time,  about  2  hours. 

FISH  SOUP  No.  2 — Take  a  fish  that  weighs  about  2  pounds; 
cut  enough  slices  for  the  frying-pan,  and  put  the  remainder,  with  the 
bones,  in  the  soup=kettle,  Muth  an  onion  if  liked,  a  sliced  lemon,  a 
bunch  of  parsley,  salt,  and  white  pepper.  Simmer  together  for  an 
hour;  strain  and  return  to  the  kettle,  and  add  ^  pint  of  cream,  and 
enough  hot  water  to  make  3  pints  of  soup.      Fry  the  fish  cutlets  in 


FISH  AND  SHELL:=FISH  SOUPS  47 

butter,  and  add  to  the  soup,  or  serve  on  a  platter  instead  of  meat  on 
a  fast  day.  If  the  fish  is  not  added  to  the  soup,  serve  it  with  nood- 
les.    Time,  about  1\  hours. 

OYSTER  SOUP.— Put  a  pint  of  small  oystesr  with  their  liquor 
in  a  quart  of  boiling  water  and  let  them  become  plump;  then  take 
them  out  with  a  skimmer,  rinse  thoroughly  in  warm  water,  and  be 
sure  there  are  no  bits  of  shell  adhering  to  them.  Strain  the 
soup=water  through  the  cloth  strainer  and  return  to  the  kettle.  Let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  add  a  little  white  pepper  and  a  very  little  cayenne, 
with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  cut  in  bits  and  rolled  in 
flour.  Boil  a  minute  after  this,  then  pour  over  the  oysters  in  the  tu- 
reen and  serve  with  small  crackers,  or  large  crackers  split,  and 
browned  in  the  oven.  A  richer  soup  is  made  by  leaving  out  one  pint 
of  water  and  substituting  one  pint  of  cream. 

SPANISH  SOUP.— Slice  and  shred  2  large  onions  and  fry  in  2 
tablespoons  of  salad=oil  until  the  onions  are  quite  yellow;  then  add  a 
dessert-spoon  of  Spanish  sweet  red  pepper,  a  little  salt  and  a  quart  of 
good  stock,  or  water;  boil  together  for  3  minutes;  then  add  small 
slices  of  any  kind  of  fish  most  agreeable  or  convenient;  boil  these  for 
a  few  minutes  and  serve  with  the  crusts  of  a  round  French  roll  fried 
in  a  little  oil  and  butter.  The  slices  of  fish  may  be  removed  to  a 
platter,  covered  with  one  of  the  fish  sauces,  and  served  as  a  course 
separate  from  the  soup. 


FISH. 

I    ^  ISH  has  been  an  important  article  of  food  in  all  ages  and  in 

HP;       all  countries.      Although   less  nourishing  and   stimulating 

X  (h      than  meat,  it  has  much  nutritive  value.     Its  abundance  and 

cheapness  commend  it,  and  it  should  be  used  freely  in,  the 

season  when  it  is  best  and  cheapest. 

The  flesh  of  fish  when  in  season,  i.  e.,  before  spawning,  is  solid 
and  boils  firm  and  curdy.  It  should  be  used  as  fresh  as  possible,  as 
it  soon  spoils.  White  fleshed  fish  are  the  most  easily  digested,  and 
the  oily  varieties  like  mackerel,  salmon  and  eels,  are  the  most  difiicult 
of  digestion.  White  fleshed  fish  is  the  most  delicate,  and  the  red 
fleshed  and  oily  kinds  the  most  nourishing.  Fish  is  highly  nitrog- 
enous, and  requires  an  abundant  use  of  starchy  food  in  combination 
with  it,  to  sux5ply  a  sufiicient  amount  of  heat^giving  material;  and, 
owing  to  the  lack  of  oil  in  the  white  fleshed  varieties,  they  are  best 
cooked  in  fat.  Lemon  juice  or  vinegar  (being  acid)  are  excellent  as 
an  accompaniment,  or  in  the  sauces,  for  fish  and  shellfish,  because  of 
the  alkaline  nature  of  their  juices.  It  is  essential  to  the  wholesome- 
ness  of  fish  that  they  should  be  thoroughly  cleaned  and  cooked. 

The  popular  idea  that  fish  aid  brain  and  nervous  development  because  of  tho 
phosphorus  they  contain  is  wholly  erroneous.  There  is  no  relation  between  the 
amount  of  phosphorus  passing  through  the  system  and  the  intensity  of  thought. 
It  is  not  because  of  the  j)hosphorus  they  contain  that  fish,  oysters  and  eggs,  are 
suitable  for  students,  but  because  they  are  easily  digested,  and  those  leading  sed- 
entary lives  do  not  need  the  hearty  food  suited  to  a  day^laborer,  besides  which  they 
are  adapted  to  those  on  whose  nervous  energies  there  are  large  drains  because  of 
the  large  amount  of  nitrogenous  material  which  they  contain.  It  should  also  be 
said  that  fish  contains  no  larger  per  cent,  of  phosphorus  than  meat. 

Cleaning  Fish. — Fish  should  be  cleaned  as  soon  as  possible  after 
being  caught.  Make  an  incision  in  the  under  side  from  the  gills  half 
way  down,  and  take  out  the  insides;  carefully  remove  the  thin  black 
membrane  lining  the  cavity,  as  it  is  apt  to  impart  a  bitter  flavor 
to  the  whole  fish  if  it  is  left.  It  is  best  to  remove  the  white  part  ad- 
hering to  the  bone,  called  the  sound,  although  some  people  leave  it. 
Do  not  cut  off  the  tail  and  head^if  it  is  to  be  served  whole.  Scrape 
from  the  tail  towards  the  head  to  remove  the  scales;  take  out  the 
eyes,  and  wash  in  strongly  salted  water;  dry  carefully,  and  wrap  a 
cloth  sprinkled  with  salt  around  it,  and  keep  near  the  ice.  The  salt 
checks  the  outflow  of  the  juices.  Handle  the  fish  as  little  as  possible, 
a,nd  do  not  wash  it  too  much  (one  water  is  usually  enough)  and  do 

48 


FISH  49 

not  let  the  fish  soak  in  the  water,  as  that  will  extract  the  juices 
and  detract  from  its  value.  Keep  fish  in  a  cool  place  near  the  ice, 
but  do  not  let  ice  touch  it,  as  that  will  soften  and  injure,  if  it  does 
not  spoil  it.  Do  not  keep  fish  in  the  ice  chest,  as  it  will  taint  any- 
thing like  milk  or  butter.  Keep  any  fish  left  after  the  meal  in  the 
same  way. 

To  Skin  a  Fish — Cut  a  narrow  strip  along  the  backbone,  using  a 
sharp  knife,  and  removing  the  fin  on  the  back;  then  run  up  the  knife 
through  and  under  the  bony  part  of  the  gills  and  peel  the  skin  off 
backwards  toward  the  tail,  holding  the  bony  part  of  the  gills  with  the 
thumb  and  finger;  then  peel  off  the  skin  from  the  other  side  in  the 
same  manner,  and  throw  it  away. 

To  Bone  a  Fish. — Fish  like  herring  and  shad,  abounding  in  fine 
bones,  are  not  boned,  but  whitefish,  mackerel,  cod,  etc.,  can  be  boned 
as  follows:  Clean,  skin  and  spread  it  out  flat  on  a  board;  then  begin 
at  the  tail,  and  run  a  sharp,  thin  knife  under  the  flesh,  close  to  the 
bone,  and  loosen  the  backbone  with  the  forefinger.  Take  pains  not 
to  break  the  flakes,  and  when  the  flesh  on  one  side  is  loosened,  slip 
the  knife  under  the  bone  on  the  other;  when  all  the  bone  is  loosened, 
pull  it  from  the  flesh.  Any  small  bones  remaining  in  the  flesh  can 
be  felt  and  removed  with  the  fingers. 

Hints — The  earthy  or  muddy  taste  which  taints  some  kinds  of 
fresh  water  fish  can  be  removed  by  rubbing  on  salt  and  letting  them 
stand  a  few  hours  or  over  night;  or,  if  in  a  hurry,  soak  them  in  salted 
water  -|  to  2  hours. 

If  fish  are  dipped  in  hot  water  for  a  minute,  they  will  scale 
much  easier.  To  remove  scales,  there  is  no  instrument  equal  to  a 
currycomb — it  is  everyway  superior  to  a  knife.  The  scales  and  en- 
trails should  be  removed,  and  also  the  blood  and  white  skin  along  the 
backbone,  as  soon  after  the  fish  is  caught  as  possible;  then  rinse, 
wipe  dry,  and  keep  near  ice.  Keep  the  eggs,  or  fish  roe,  and  cook  it 
with  the  fish. 

The  quickest  and  best  way  to  freshen  salt  fish  is  to  soak  it  in 
sour  milk.  As  salt  will  settle,  put  the  fish  flesh  side  down,  then  the 
salt  as  it  dissolves  out  of  the  fish  will  settle  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 
If  the  skin  side  is  down  the  salt  will  settle  against  the  skin  and  be 
retained  in  the  fish.     All  fish  lose  nourishing  power  by  being  salted. 

Salted  fish  and  canned  fish,  oysters,  lobsters  etc.,  can  be  kept  in 
the  store=room  against  an  emergency,  but  great  care  must  be  taken 
in  the  case  of  canned  meats,  fish,  lobsters,  and  vegetables,  that  the 
4 


50  FISH 

brands  selected  are  put  up  in  j^nre  tin  cans;  a  mixture  of  lead  with 
the  tin  is  sometimes  used,  the  oxide  of  which  is  poisonous.  All  the 
contents  of  a  tin  can  when  opened  should  be  immediately  removed 
into  an  earthen  or  glass  dish,  as  oxidation  proceeds  rapidly  after 
the  can  is  ojpened,  and  the  inside,  with  its  contents,  exposed  to  the 
action  of  the  air. 

The  knives  and  spoons  used  about  fish  should  not  be  used  for 
other  food  till  well  cleaned,  as  they  will  impart  a  fishy  flavor  to  it. 
Eub  steel  knives  or  forks  with  fresh  lemon  or  orange  peel  to  take  off 
the  fishy  taste. 

To  thaw  out  frozen  fish,  put  it  in  cold  water,  and  leave  it  until  it 
is  flexible  and  the  frost  is  all  drawn  out;  then  dress  and  cook  at  once. 

Fish,  if  kept  near  ice  and  very  cold,  retains  much  of  its  fresh- 
ness, but  if  once  heated,  its  delicate  flavor  cannot  be  restored.  Fish 
that  is  not  quite  fresh  can  be  improved  by  washing  in  vinegar  and 
water,  or  permanganate  of  potash  and  water.  It  is  afterwards  better 
fried  than  boiled,  but  no  dressing  will  entirely  conceal  its  quality. 
Fish  purchased  in  the  market  should  be  used  the  same  day  if  pos- 
sible. 

The  garnishing  of  fish  is  an  art,  if  nicely  done.  Celery  tops,  horse- 
radish, common  radishes,  water-cresses,  parsely,  nasturtium  flowers, 
sliced  lemons  and  red  pickled  beets,  cut  in  fanciful  shapes,  are 
among  the  most  effective  and  popular  things  to  use. 

Methods  of  Cooking  Fish. — Broiling  a  fish  best  retains  its  nourish- 
ing qualities;  baking  is  next,  while  boiling  retains  the  least — in  fact, 
boiling  is  the  least  desirable  way  of  cooking  them.  Small  fish  are 
usually  fried;  those  of  medium  size  broiled  and  baked,  and  the  larg- 
est can  be  boiled. 

As  the  directions  for  frying,  boiling,  stewing,  broiling  and  bak- 
ing fish  apply  to  nearly  all  kinds,  we  will  give  these  methods  quite 
fully,  instead  of  describing  the  same  method  o\er  and  over  again  for 
each  different  kind  of  fish.  Anyone  who  masters  the  process,  can 
easily  cook  any  fish  adajoted  to  that  way  of  cooking. 

TO    BOIL    FISH. 

When  boiling  fish,  to  have  the  water  bubble  is  worse  than 
useless,  as  it  cracks  the  skin.  If  fish  is  put  into  cold  water 
at  first,  it,  like  meat,  gets  dry  (see  our  article  on  the  prin- 
cij)les  involved  in  cooking  meat).  A  compromise  is  therefore  made, 
and  salt  is  added  to  the  water  (use  about  1  oz.  of  salt  to  each  quart 
of  water) ;  it  is  well  also  to  add   about   1   tablespoon   of  vinegar   or 


FISH 


51 


A    FISH    KETTLE. 


lemon  juice  to  each.  2  quarts  of  water.  Vinegar  or  lemon  juice  are 
valuable  because  albumen  coagulates  sooner  when  in  contact  with  an 
acid,  and  they  thus  help  to  coagulate  the  surface  albumen,  and  so  re- 
tain the  juices  inside.  Salt  added  to  the  water  in  which  fish  is 
cooked  acts  in  3  ways,  as  explained  in  the  article  on  cooking  meats. 
The  old  plan  has  been 
to  put  fish  into  cold 
water  at  first,  but  it  is 
much  better  to  put  it 
into  water  as  hot  as 
the  skin  will  bear 
without  breaking,  and 
this  varies  with  each 
kind  of  fish.  To 
break  the  skin  is  very 
undesirable ,  because 
it  not  only  makes  an 

unsightly  appearance  but  each  crack  makes  an  opening  through 
which  the  interior  juices  will  escape.  Any  fish  which  is  to  be  served 
without  the  skin  on,  like  sturgeon  or  halibut,  is  best  if  put  into  boil- 
ing water.  Fish  having  a  thick,  tough  skin,  can  be  put  into  water 
at  the  boiling  point.  Fish  with  delicate  skins,  like  trout,  mackerel, 
etc.-  should  be  put  into  warm  water — 140°  to  150°.  If  a  fish  kettle  is 
used,  and  a  fish  plate  that  can  be  taken  up,  there  is  no  need  of  a 
cloth  around  the  fish,  but  if  it  has  to  be  boiled  in  a  common  kettle, 
it  should  be  rolled  in  a  piece  of  cloth  (butter  cloth  is  best)  to  keep  it 
in  shape,  and  it  is  likely  to  be  broken  when  taken  from  the  water, 
if  the  cloth  is  not  used.  Allow  the  fish  to  gently  simmer,  not  actually 
boil,  or  the  outside  will  break  into  pieces  before  the  inside  is  done. 
If  water  is  to  be  added,  do  not  pour  it  directly  on  the  fish,  as  that  is 
apt  to  break  the  skin;  pour  it  gently  in  on  one  side  of  the  kettle. 
Fish  should  always  be  put  into  the  water  in  which  it  is  to  be  cooked; 
if  the  water  is  poured  upon  it,  it  is  apt  to  become  broken.  It  should 
not  be  allowed  to  remain  in  the  water  after  it  is  done;  if  it  has  to  be 
kept  hot,  it  should  be  taken  up  on  a  drainer,  placed  across  the  fish^ 
kettle  over  the  hot  water,  and  covered  with  a  soft  cloth  or  flannel 
folded  several  times,  to  prevent  its  losing  its  color.  The  reason  for 
skimming  is,  that  the  scum  will  be  likely  to  settle  on  the  fish  if  that 
is  not  done,  and  give  it  an  unsightly  appearance.  Save  the  liquor 
in  which  fish  has  been  boiled,  as  it  makes  an  excellent  soup  with  a 
few  cheap  additions. 

Boiling  is  the  least  desirable  way  of  cooking  fish. 


62  FISH 

The  Time  of  Boiling  depends  entirely  on  the  freshness  and 
thickness  of  the  fish,  and  varies  so  much  that  no  rule  can  be  given; 
experience  is  the  only  guide.  There  are  three  reliable  tests  by  which 
it  can  be  ascertained  if  the  fish  has  been  sufiiciently  cooked:  First,  if 
the  fins  will  pull  out  easily;  second,  if  the  skin  of  the  fish  is  cracked; 
or,  third,  if  a  skewer  passes  easily  when  run  into  the  fish  close  to  the 
bone.  Too  long  boiling  makes  fish  "  woolly  "  and  tasteless.  Fish 
should  be  well  cooked  to  be  digestible,  but  should  not  be  overdone. 
White  fish  cook  much  more  rapidly  than  meat.  All  dark^fleshed  fish 
require  more  boiling  than  the  white=fleshed  kinds.  Salmon  needs 
about  10  minutes  to  each  lb.  Haddock,  cod,  etc.  only  need  2  or  3 
minutes  to  the  lb.  Mackerel  needs  about  \  hour.  Bass  or  sheeps- 
head,  of  4  or  5  lbs.,  will  boil  in  about  10  minutes.  Herring  and 
many  similar  fish,  in  6  or  8  minutes. 

Au  Court  Bouillon  is  a  term  applied  when  white  wine  or  vine- 
gar and  onions  and  spices  are  used  to  flavor  the  water  in  which  the 
fish  is  boiled. 

A  la  bonne  eau  is  a  term  applied  when  the  fish  is  simmered  in  a 
little  water  made  savory  with  herbs,  and  the  water  in  which  it  is 
cooked  is  generally  served  with  it.  When  sea  water  is  used  the 
fish  is  said  to  be  a  V  Hollandaise. 

Au  bleu  is  the  term  applied  when  red  wine  and  vinegar  are  used 
in  the  water  in  which  the  fish  is  boiled,  and  it  is  also  strongly  im- 
pregnated with  herbs,  The  fish  is  then  generally  served  cold.  Only 
the  best  kinds  of  fish  are  thus  treated. 

All  boiled  fish  should  have  a  good  sauce  served  with  it.  Hollan- 
daise and  sauce  piquante  go  well  with  salmon,  oyster,  lobster,  and 
shrimp;  and  drawn  butter,  egg,  pickle,  etc.,  with  other  fish.  Serve 
the  sauce  in  a  sauce-boat  unless  the  fish  breaks  and  looks  badly,  in 
which  case  the  bones  can  be  taken  out,  the  fish  flaked,  piled  on  a 
platter  lightly,  and  the  sauce  poured  over,  it. 

Garnish  boiled  fish  with  slices  of  lemon  or  hard  boiled  eggs, 
parsley,  button  mushrooms,  fried  oysters,  sliced  pickles,  Saratoga 
potatoes,  etc. 

STEAMED  FISH. 

An  excellent  way  to  cook  fish  is  to  thoroughly  clean,  remove 
the  head,  skin  and  tail,  rub  with  salt  and  lemon  juice,  and  cook  in  a 
steamer,  over  boiling  water,  instead  of  boiling  it.  In  many  respects 
it  is  better  than  boiling.  When  done,  serve  on  a  platter  on  which  a 
folded  napkin  is  laid,  pile  Saratoga  potatoes  around  it,  and  garnish 
with  parsley,  slices  of  lemon  or  hard  boiled  egg.  Serve  a  good  sauce 
in  a  sauce-boat  with  it. 


FISH  63 

Time  to  steam,  about  20  minutes  for  moderate  sized  fish,  and 
longer  for  large  ones. 

STEWED  FISH. 

Cut  the  fish  in  small  pieces  and  sprinkle  on  salt;  then  in  |  pint 
of  water  boil  one  onion  (sliced)  and  when  cooked,  pour  off  the  water; 
then  add  1  cup  water,  the  juice  of  |  a  lemon,  |  teaspoon  salt,  a  salt= 
spoon  of  pepper,  and  a  sprig  of  parsley  or  other  herbs.  Boil  the  fish 
in  this  till  done,  and  serve  very  hot.  Eub  to  a  cream  1  teaspoon  of 
butter  and  1  large  teaspoon  of  flour,  and  thicken  the  gravy  with  it. 
Any  fresh  water  fish  can  be  thus  stewed. 

Time  to  stew,  about  20  minutes. 

TO  BROIL  FISH. 

Clean  the  fish  properly  and  either  rub  it  with  vinegar  or  dry  it 
and  dredge  it  with  flour.  Salt  and  pepper  is  all  that  is  really  neces- 
sary to  apply  to  oily  fish  before  broiling  them,  but  salad  oil  or  butter 
should  be  first  spread  over  dry,  white  fish.  Fish  is  sometimes  soaked 
in  marinade  previous  to  broiling,  as  it  improves  the  flavor.  The 
French  steep  it  in  olive  oil  flavored  with  spices. 

Large  fish  need  a  moderate  fire  so  as  not  to  burn  the  outside 
before  the  inside  is  done;  they  are  best  split,  in  order  to  cook  them 
through  well,  ox  else  make  notches  at  equal  distances  on  the  sides  to 
admit  the  heat.  Small  fish  need  a  clear  hot  fire,  and  may  be  cooked 
whole.  The  gridiron  should  always  be  well  greased.  As  the  skin 
burns  easily,  the  flesh  side  should  be  cooked  first  to  a  golden  brown; 
then  turn  and  broil  the  skin  side  until  it  is  crisp.  A  double  wire 
gridiron  is  easily  turned,  but  the  best  way  when  an  old  style  iron  or  a 
single  gridiron  is  used,  is  to  take  a  knife  and  separate  any  part  that 
sticks;  then  with  one  hand  hold  a  platter  over  the  fish,  and  with  the 
other,  turn  over  the  gridiron;  the  fish  will  then  be  on  the  platter  and 
can  easily  be  returned  to  the  gridiron  without  breaking.  When  done, 
sprinkle  on  salt  and  pepper,  and,  using  a  knife,  spread  a  little  butter 
over  it,  and  then  put  it  in  the  oven  a  moment  to  let  it  soak  in.  A 
Maitre  d'  liotel  or  other  good  sauce  can  be  used  with  it. 

All  oily  fish,  like  mackerel,  herring  etc.,  are  better  broiled  than 
fried. 

The  pieces  of  fish  are  sometimes  wrapped  in  a  piece  of  oiled 
paper  before  being  broiled,  when  very  delicate  broiling  is  desired. 
The  paper  must  be  very  thoroughly  oiled  or  buttered,  but  no  oil 
should  drop  on  the  fire,  and  a  very  clear  fire  is  needed. 

A  gridiron  that  has  cooked  fish  needs  most  thorough  cleaning. 


54  FISH 

Kemember  that  the  secret  of  having  dry,  white  fish,  nice,  is  to 
rub  them  with  salad  oil  or  melted  butter  before  broiling  them. 

Time  to  Cook. — This  depends  largely  on  the  size.  Small  fish  will 
broil  in  5  to  10  minutes,  while  larger  ones  will  need  15  to  20  min- 
utes. 

BKOILED   SALT  FISH. 

Use  any  salt  fish,  and  either  soak  it  in  cold  water  24  hours, 
changing  it  2  or  3  times,  or  if  in  a  hurry  use  warm  water  and  soak  it 
a  short  time,  changing  the  water  and  parboiling  it  slightly.  When 
wanted  for  use,  drain,  dry,  and  broil  briskly.  Season  with  pepper,  a 
little  salt  if  needed,  and  pour  on  melted  butter. 

Time  to  broil,  about  10  to  12  minutes. 

MARINADE  FOR  BROILED  FISH. 

Mix  together  |-  cup  of  salad  oil,  a  chopped  onion,  the  juice  of  a 
lemon  or  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  and  a  bunch  of  herbs.  Scores 
1  inch  apart  are  often  made  in  the  fish  before  putting  it  in  the 
marinade.  Let  them  soak  in  this  ^  hour.  Many  kinds  of  dry  fish 
are   much  improved  by  this  treatment. 

TO  FRY  FISH. 

By  frying  fish  we  mean  immersing  it  in  hot  fat.  The  fish 
should  be  well  cleaned,  dried  with  a  soft  cloth,  and  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt;  then  rub  it  with  flour,  dip  it  in  beaten  egg,  and 
then  sprinkle  with  fine  bread  or  cracker  crumbs;  sometimes  wheat 
flour  or  Indian  corn=meal  are  used,  but  fully  cover  the  fish  so*  that 
there  are  no  cracks.  Then  fry  it  in  smoking  hot  fat  like  doughnuts, 
and  as  directed  elsewhere  under  "The  Processes  of  Cooking."  It 
should  be  fried  a  rich  golden  brown.  A  sheet  of  paper  can  be 
placed  to  receive  it  after  it  is  fried,  that  it  may  be  free  from  all 
grease.     Some  cooks  lay  it  in  the  oven  for  a  moment,  and  then  serve. 

Time  to  Cook. — A  very  little  time  is  all  that  is  needed  to  cook  it 
(from  2  to  5  minutes)  if  the  fat  is  the  right  temperature;  a  general 
mistake  is  to  overcook  it. 

Do  not  fry  oily  fish,  like  mackerel,  salmon,  etc.  Halibut,  cod, 
etc.,  can  be  skinned,  boned,  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  then 
fried.  Fish  which  is  very  cold  should  be  slightly  warmed  first,  or  it 
will  chill  the  fat  and  become  greasy.  Fish  thus  fried  is  nicer  than 
by  the  common  method  of  frying  in  the  frying=pan;  try  it  once,  if 
you  never  have. 

Fish  is  also  sometimes  fried  in  batter.  The  fish  should  be  dried, 
seasoned  with  pepj)er  and  salt,  dipped  in  the  batter,  and  quickly  put 


FISH 


55 


into  the  hot  fat.  The  batter  must  be  smooth  and  thick.  As  soon  as 
the  batter  is  of  a  bright  golden  color,  take  it  out,  and  if  the  fish  is 
thick,  put  it  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  The  fat  is  more  than 
100°  hotter  than  boiling  water,  and  the  inside  part  of  whatever  is 
cooked  in  it  goes  on  cooking  after  it  is  taken  out  of  the  fat. 

For  frying  in  the  frying-pan  or  sauUing,  butter  is  not  desira- 
ble, as  it  scorches  too  easily  and  gives  a  bad  odor  to  any  fish  that  re- 
quires long  cooking.  Small  brook^trout,  however,  are  sometimes 
cooked  in  butter  in  the  frying=pan.  For  ordinary  sized  pan-fish,  or 
slices  of  large  fish,  the  fat  from  a  few  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  is  excel- 
lent; the  thin  scraps  of  fried  pork  are  used  with  other  garnishing, 
around  the  fish  on  the  platter. 

Garnish  fried  fish  with  parsley,  lemon,  pickle,  etc.,  and  serve 
with  any  acid  sauce,  like  tomato  or  tartare.  Small  fish  should  be  ar- 
ranged with  heads  and  tails  alternating.  Arrange  fillets  in  a  circle, 
one  overlapping  the  other. 

BAKED  FISH. 

Clean,  dry,  and  stuff  the  fish  with  one  of  the  stuffings  given  be- 
low, and  sew  it.  Long,  narrow  fish  bake  best  if  a  trussing  needle  is 
run  through  the  side  of  the 
head,  then  the  middle  of  the 
■body,  and  then  the  tail,  in  such 
a  way  as  to  form  the  fish  into 
the  shape  of  a  letter  S  as  shown 
in  the  accompanying  illustra- 
tion; it  will  then  rest  on  its  bel- 
ly while  baking,  instead  of 
on    its    side.       Shad    or    other 

short,  broad  fish,  may  be  propped  up  on  their  bellies  with  peeled  po- 
tatoes, or  pieces  of  old  bread.  In  order  to  lift  the  fish  out  easily 
when  done,  it  is  best  to  put  the  fish  on  an  iron  or  tin  baking  sheet, 
with  handles  at  the  ends,  and  set  that  in  the  baking  pan;  if  you  have 
no  such  baking  sheet,  2  broad  strips  of  cotton  cloth  can  be  used  to 
lift  the  fish  out  with,  laying  the  cloth  across  the  pan  before  putting 
in  the  fish.  Grease  the  baking  sheet  well  with  salt  pork  fat,  to  keep 
the  fish  from  sticking,  and  put  some  pieces  of  pork  under  the  fish  al- 
so. Sprinkle  it  over  with  salt  and  pepper,  rub  on  soft  butter,  and  put 
narrow  strips  of  pork  in  gashes  cut  across  the  back  of  the  fish  about 
2  inches  apart.  Dredge  it  well  with  flour,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until  nicely  browned,  basting  it  often  to  prevent  the  skin  from  crack- 
ing.    Remember  that  constant  basting  is  essential  to  success.     Some 


IJAKED    FISH. 


56  FISH 

cooks  put  a  little  water  in  the  baking  pan,  but  it  is  better  not  to  do 
so,  but  use  the  pork  fat  to  baste  with.  When  done,  lift  it  carefully 
and  put  it  on  a  hot  platter,  take  out  the  trussing  needle  or  threads, 
and  remove  the  salt  pork. 

The  best  fish  for  baking  whole  are  fresh  shad,  bass,  cod,  blue- 
fish,  haddock  and  small  salmon. 

Time  to  Bake. — This  depends  on  the  size  and  character  of  the 
fish,  varying  from  ^  to  1  hour  usually.  A  medium  sized  shad  or  cod 
should  bake  in  f  hour. 

Oarnish  with  parsley,  water==  cresses  or  Saratoga  potatoes,  and 
serve  a  drawn  butter  or  Hollandaise  sauce  with  it. 

Stuffing  for  Baked  Fish — Take  1  cup  cracker  crumbs,  1  teaspoon 
of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  pepper,  2  teaspoons  of  chopped  parsley,  4  ta- 
blespoons melted  butter.  If  it  is  wanted  more  moist,  wet  the  crack- 
er crumbs  with  |-  cup  of  warm  water,  or  with  1  beaten  egg.  This 
makes  a  stuffing  for  a  fish  weighing  4  to  6  lbs. 

Stuffing,  No.  2 — Take  bread  crumbs,  1  well  beaten  egg,  1  table- 
spoon chopped  suet,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  2  tablespoons 
minced  onion,  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Stuff  the  fish,  sew  or 
tie  up,  and  bake. 

Oyster  Stuffing. — Prepare  |  pint  of  buttered  cracker  crumbs;  then 
take  2  cups  oysters,  roll  each  one  in  the  cracker  crumbs  (draining 
them  first)  and  fill  the  fish  with  them;  sprinkle  the  oysters  with  the 
balance  of  the  crumbs,  sew  up  the  fish,  and  bake. 

Oyster  Stuffing,  No.  2. — Season  a  pint  of  oysters  with  salt,  red  pep 
per  and  lemon  juice;  fill  the  fish  with  the  oysters,  sew  up,  and  bake 
as  before  directed. 

FILLET  OF  FISH. 

This  consists  of  the  flesh  of  fish,  skinned,  boned,  and  cut  into 
small  strips.  (The  word  fillet  means  literally  a  thread  or  string). 
These  strips  (fillets)  are  usually  dredged  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dipped  in  beaten  eggs,  rolled  in  crumbs,  and  fried  like  doughnuts  in 
smoking  hot  fat.  Time  to  fry,  1  or  2  minutes.  On  taking  out  lay 
them  on  paper  a  moment  to  drain.  Serve  on  fried  or  toasted  bread, 
or  with  a  good  fish  sauce,  like  cream,  tartar,  or  Hollandaise.  The 
strips  (fillets)  are  sometimes  allowed  to  stand  1  hour,  sprinkled  with 
salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice,  and  then  baked,  having  melted  butter 
in  the  pan  and  basting  the  fish  with"  it-  When  done,  garnish  and 
serve  with  a  good  fish  sauce. 


FISH  57 

TURBAN  OF  FISH. 

This  consists  of  fish  prepared  as  directed  above  for  fillets  of  fish, 
but  the  fillets  (strips)  of  fish  are  rolled  up  and  fastened  with  a  small 
skewer,  such  as  a  wooden  tooth  pick.  Then  fry  or  bake  as  directed 
for  fillets  and  serve  the  same  way. 

PICKLED  OR  SPICED  FISH. 

Use  remains  of  any  cold  fresh  fish,  remove  all  skin  and  bones, 
put  it  in  a  deep  dish,  and  add  enough  hot,  spiced  vinegar  (prepared 
by  boiling  cloves  and  allspice  in  the  vinegar  for  10  minutes)  to  just 
cover.     As  soon  as  cold  it  can  be  used. 

FISH  AU  GRATIN. 

Cut  an  onion  in  small  pieces,  and  fry  it  in  3  tablespoons  of 
butter;  skin  and  bone  2  lbs.  fish,  cut  it  in  pieces,  roll  and  dip  it  in 
flour,  and  fry  it  in  the  onion  and  butter,  in  a  frying  pan;  let  only  1 
side  brown.  Now  pour  over  the  onions  and  butter,  1  tablespoon 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar,  3  tablespooons  beef  gravy  or  good  meat 
extract,  4  tablespoons  of  tomatoes  just  out  of  the  can,  and  the  liquor 
from  1  pint  of  oysters.  Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the  top,  and 
here  and  there  put  bits  of  butter.  Set  the  platter  in  the  oven  over  a 
pan  of  hot  water,  to  prevent  the  dish  from  breaking,  and  bake  till  the 
crumbs  are  brown.  Season  1  pint  of  raw  oysters  with  red  pepper, 
salt  and  lemon  juice;  put  them  in  a  sauce=pan,  and  let  them  cook 
until  they  puff  up.  Shake  the  pan  to  keep  them  from  burning,  and 
when  done,  pour  them  around  the  fish.  Shrimp  or  mushrooms  may 
be  used  instead  of  oysters  if  more  convenient. 

FISH  BALLS. 

To  1  cup  salt  fish  picked  in  pieces  and  freed  from  bones,  take  2 
cups  potatoes  peeled  and  cut  in  small  pieces;  put  all  in  a  pan  togeth- 
er, cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil  till  the  potato  is  soft  but  not 
soggy  —  about  25  minutes.  Then  drain,  and  mash  and  beat  till  very 
light;  add  a  little  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  butter,  and,  when  cooled  a 
little,  1  well  beaten  egg,  with  a  little  more  salt  if  needed.  Then 
shape  it  into  balls  with  a  tablespoon.  In  shaping  them  press  very 
lightly;  if  pressed  hard  they  will  be  injured  or  ruined.  Then  fry 
like  doughnuts  in  smoking  hot  fat  about  1  minute;  on  taking  out  lay 
them  on  soft  paper  to  drain.  Or,  if  desired,  the  mixture  can  be  fried 
till  brown  in  a  frying  pan,  with  salt  pork  fat  or  butter,  and  then 
turned  out  like  an  omelet.     These  are  delicious. 


58  FISH 

FISH  CHOWDEK. 

Take  three  lbs.  fish  cut  in  pieces,  4  cups  sliced  potatoes  and  ^  lb. 
salt  pork  cut  in  thin  slices.  Fry  the  pork  in  a  deep  kettle  till  brown, 
but  not  burned;  then  over  it  put  a  layer  of  fish,  then  a  layer  of  pota- 
toes well  dredged  with  flour,  pepper  and  salt.  Repeat  alternate  layers 
till  all  is  used;  then  pour  on  hot  water,  not  quite  to  cover,  and  boil 
till  the  potatoes  are  tender.  In  another  saucepan  heat  4  cups  milk, 
and  when  the  potatoes  are  tender  add  it  to  the  chowder  with  one  heap- 
ing tablespoon  of  butter  and  |  lb.  fresh  Boston  crackers  (if  stale  they 
will  spoil  the  chowder)  having  first  split  and  soaked  them  a  few 
minutes  in  warm  milk  or  water  Boil  up  once  and  the  dish  is  done. 
The  broth  should  be  about  the  consistency  of  a  thin  cream  soup. 
The  best  fish  to  use  are  cod,  haddock  or  striped  bass.  A  good  way  to 
serve  it  is  to  put  the  fish  and  potatoes  on  a  large  platter,  with  the 
crackers  in  a  circle  around,  and  then  strain  the  broth  and  put  in  a 
soup  tureen.  This  will  make  an  entire  dinner  of  itself  (soup,  fish  and 
vegetables,)  adding,  to  finish,  a  simple  dessert  or  a  little  fruit.  Time 
to  cook  about  ^  hour. 

UTIDIZING  COLD  FISH. 
CREAMED  FISH — Use  remnants  of  any  cold  fish  left  from  din- 
ner, picking  it  to  pieces  and  removing  all  bones.  Make  a  cream 
sauce  by  cooking  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  two  tablespoons  flour 
until  they  bubble;  then  add  2  cups  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  pep- 
per or  cayenne.  Butter  a  pudding  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  fish,  then 
a  layer  of  the  sauce,  and  so  on  alternately.  Spread  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs  on  top,  add  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  about  20  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven.  A  little  parsley,  onion  or  lemon  juice  can  be  added  to  the 
sauce  for  flavor  if  desired. 

CURRY  OF  FISH — Use  cold  boiled  or  baked  fish  of  any  kind; 
pick  it  to  pieces  and  remove  all  bones.  In  a  little  butter  fry  a 
sliced  onion  till  quite  brown;  add  1  cup  hot  water  and  1  teaspoon 
curry  powder;  then  add  1  teaspoon  of  flour  which  has  been  mixed  in  a 
little  cold  water  and  freed  from  lumps.  Then  strain  the  sauce,  put 
in  the  fish,   heat  till  warmed  through,  and  serve. 

ESCALLOPED  FISH — Use  remnants  of  any  broiled,  fried  or 
baked  fish  left  from  dinner,  picking  the  fish  to  pieces  and  removing 
all  bones.  Into  a  baking  dish  put  alternate  layers  of  the  fish,  and 
either  mashed  potatoes  or  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  small  piec- 
es. Pour  over  a  cream  sauce  made  as  directed  for  "  Creamed  Fish," 
and   bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  ^  hour. 


FISH  59 

ESCALLOPED  FISH  No.  2 — Pick  cold  fish  in  pieces  and  remove 
all  bones.  Make  a  cream  sauce  as  for  "Creamed  Fish."  Into  a  pud- 
ding dish  put  a  layer  of  fish,  then  a  layer  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs; 
moisten  it  with  the  sauce,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  if  needed, 
and  put  on  bits  of  butter.  Put  in  alternate  layers  in  this  way,  fin- 
ishing with  crumbs.  Bake  it  in  the  oven  till  the  crumbs  are  brown- 
ed on  top — about  20  minutes. 

FISH  CAKES — Take  remnants  of  any  cold  fish,  pull  them  to  piec- 
es, and  thoroughly  incorporate  with  them  a  little  butter  and  some 
mashed  potatoes;  season  the  whole  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
and  a  little  cayenne  if  desired.  Form  the  mixture-into  cakes,  and 
fry  in  smoking  hot  fat  till  of  a  golden  brown.  Serve  garnished  with 
parsley.     Time  to  cook  1  or  2  minutes. 

FISH  PIE. — Take  any  cold  fish  left  from  dinner,  pick  it  into 
small  pieces,  removing  all  bones,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Have  a  kettle  of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  put  half  the  potatoes  into  the 
bottom  of  a  pudding  dish,  spread  the  fish  on  it,  and  cover  with  the 
remainder  of  the  potato.  Smooth  over  the  top  and  brown  in  the 
oven  10  minutes. 

FISH  AND  OYSTER  PIE — Take  remnants  of  any  cold  fish,  pick 
it  in  pieces,  remove  all  bones,  spread  a  layer  in  a  pudding  dish  and 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt;  spread  on  a  layer  of  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs  and  oysters  and  sprinkle  with  nutmeg  and  parsley,  and  so 
continue  with  alternate  layers.  Form  a  covering  of  either  crumbs, 
which  should  be  browned,  or  pufp  paste,  which  should  be  cut  into 
long  strips  and  laid  in  cross=bars  over  the  fish,  with  a  line  of  the 
paste  first  laid  around  the  edge,  and  bake.  Before  putting  on  the 
top,  pour  in  some  melted  butter,  or  a  little  thin  white  sauce,  and  the 
oyster  liquor.  Time  to  bake,  if  of  cooked  fish,  ^  hour;  if  made  of 
fresh  fish  and  puff  paste,  f  hour. 

RE=DRESSED  COLD  FISH — Cut  the  fish  into  square  pieces, 
and  lay  them  neatly  in  a  fiat  dish;  then  cover  them  with  mayonnaise 
sauce.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  beet^root  if  you  have  it. 
White  fish  or  salmon  may  be  dressed  in  this  way. 

POTTED  FISH. 

Clean  the  fish,  skin  it,  remove  the  larger  bones,  and  cut  it  in 
pieces.  Mix  together  3  tablespoons  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  pep- 
percorns, 1  saltspoon  of  cayenne,  and  ^  cup  of  salt.  Into  a  small 
stone  jar  (not  earthenware)  pack  the  fish  in  layers,  sprinkling  the 
mixture  of  spices  between  the  layers.     Put  in    vinegar   enough    to 


60  FISH 

cover,  tie  a  thick  paper  over  the  top,  and  bake  5  or  6  hours  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  It  will  keep  some  time  in  a  cool  place  (if  kept  under  the 
vinegar),  and  can  be  eaten  cold  or  hot,  making  a  fine  relish  for  tea  or 
lunch.     The  bones  will  be  dissolved  by  the  vinegar. 

CRIMPING  FISH. 

This  consists  in  striking  the  fish  on  the  head  when  caught,  and 
then  making  a  number  of  transverse  gashes  in  it;  the  fish  is  then  put 
in  cold  water  which  makes  the  muscular  fibres  contract  strongly,  and 
the  flesh  becomes  firmer  than  would  otherwise  be  the  case.  Cod  are 
often  crimped,  and  are  then  thought  to  be  firmer,  better  flavored,  and 
to  keep  longer  than  when  uncrimped. 

CAVIAR. 

This  is  the  hard  roe  of  sturgeon  and  other  fish  preserved  by 
washing  in  vinegar  and  salting.  It  is  pretty  extensively  prepared 
and  used  as  an  article  of  food  in  Russia,  but  in  this  country  is 
served  principally  as  a  relish  at  the  table,  the  mode  of  serving  it 
being  on  dry  toast  with  lemon  juice  squeezed  on  it.  It  is  generally 
disliked  at  first,  but  is  highly  esteemed  by  those  in  whom  the  taste 
has  been  cultivated.  It  is  now  quite  extensively  manufactured  in 
the  United  States. 

ANCHOVIES. 
FRIED — Slightly  fry  the  little  fish  in  their  own  oil;  and  serve 
them  on  thin  fried  toast.      They  make  a  nice  accompaniment  to  the 
cheese  course  at  dinner. 

ANCHOVIES  ON  TOAST.— Wash  the  fish  in  milk,  dry  them, 
remove  the  bones,  and  fillet  them  (each  anchovy  should  make  two 
fillets.)  Put  the  fillets  on  nice  strips  of  thin  buttered  toast,  set  in 
the  oven  a  minute  to  heat,  and  serve. 

The  anchovy  is  a  small  fish  of  the  herring  tribe  caught  principally  in  the  Med- 
iterranean sea,  the  best  coming  from  the  island  of  Gorgona.  It  was  weU  known  to 
the  ancients,  and  they  made  a  valued  sauce  from  it  called  gareen.  A  large  part  of 
the  anchovies  put  up  in  Europe  are  really  sprats  or  pilchards,  the  name  anchovy 
now  indicating  a  peculiar  method  of  preparing  fish  rather  than  the  fish  it- 
self. There  is  an  American  variety  of  the  anchovy  but  it  is  mainly  sold  as  white- 
bait. 

THE  ALEWIFE. 

This  fish  can  be  dressed,  and  then  fried,  or  sauted  like  brook 
trout. 

The  alewife  is  an  American  fish,  allied  to  the  herring  and  shad.  It  abounds 
on  the  eastern  coast  of  N.  America,  appearing  in  the  late  spring  and  early  summer. 
It  enters  the  rivers  to  spawn,  but  ascends  only  as  far  as  the  tide  goes.      Although 


FISH  61 

inferior  to  the  herring  they  are  a  valuable  food  fish.  They  attain  a  length  of  from 
8  to  12  inches.     It  is  the  most  abundant  of  any  of  our  coast  fishes. 

The  Babbel  belongs  to  the  carp  family  and  resembles  the  American  sucker. 
Numerous  species  are  found  in  Europe,  but  no  true  barbel  is  known  in  the  United 
States. 

Tne  Bleak  is  another  European  fish  not  found  in  the  United  States. 

BASS. 

Striped  Bass — Those  weighing  less  than  1  lb.  can  be  allow  ed  to 
soak  1  hour  in  salted  water  (after  cleaning  and  dressing);  then 
drain,  wipe  dry,  and  fry  in  salt  pork  fat.  Anchovy  butter  is  nice 
with  them.  (2)  Small  striped  or  black  bass  can  be  filleted,  as  previ- 
ously directed  for  filleting  fish.  Serve  a  good  sauce,  like  tartare  with 
them.  (3)  Those  weighing  from  1  to  3  lbs.  can  be  broiled.  (4) 
Those  weighing  5  to  8  lbs.  can  be  boiled  as  previously  directed  foi 
fish.  Time  to  boil,  20  to  30  min- 
utes according  to  the  size.  (5) 
They  can  be  stuffed  and  baked  as 
previously  directed  for  baking  fish . 
(6)  Very  large  ones  can  be  cut  in 
pieces  and  boiled,  steamed,  fried, 

or  broiled  as  previously  directed  stbiped  bass. 

for  cooking  fish  by  those  meth- 
ods, at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter.     They  often  reach  a  weight 
of  20  lbs. 

Black  Bass. — The  smaller  ones  can  be  cooked  as  directed  for 
small  striped  bass,  and  the  larger  ones  broiled.  The  flesh  is  hard, 
white  and  flaky,  but  not  specially  flavored. 

This  fish  bears  many  names  in  different  localities,  being  called  Chub  in  North 
Carolina,  Jumper  in  Kentucky,  and  Moss  Bass  in  Indiana.  Otsego  Bass  is  a  local 
name  for  Whitefish.  There  is  much  confusion  in  the  use  of  the  name  bass,  it  being 
often  applied  to  fish  which  have  no  claim  to  the  title. 

The  White  Bass — these  usually  weigh  from  1  to  3  lbs.  They  are 
often   also  called  perch.      Cook  them  as  directed  for  small  striped 


The  Yellow  Bass,  which  is  often  called  Bar-fish  in  the  south 
closely  resembles  the  white  bass  in  size  and  color,  and  is  cooked  the 
same. 

BLACKFISH. 

These  are  very  nice  made  into  fillets  as  previously  directed  for 
filleting  fish.  Serve  with  tartare  or  other  good  fish  sauce.  It  makes 
an  excellent  chowder.  It  is  also  good  boiled.  Proceed  as  directed 
for  cooking  fish  by  these  methods,  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

The  blackfish  is  an  inhabitant  of  the  coasts  of  Europe,  but  is  rare  because  it 


62  FISH 

inhabits  deep  waters.  It  often  attains  a  length  of  2%  feet,  and  a  weight  of  12  to 
15  lbs.  It  is  an  excellent  food  fish.  Its  flesh  is  firm,  flaky  and  very  sweet.  It  is 
variously  known  as  "Sea=bass,"  Rock^bass,"  "Black=Will,"  "Black=Harry "  and 
"Hannahills." 

'^  BONITO. 

This  fish  is  best  broiled  or  grilled  as  previously  directed  for 
broiling  fish,  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

The  bonito  is  found  only  in  the  Atlantic  basis.  It  is  often  called  "Skipjack" 
in  the  Boston  market.  The  fish  is  not  very  common,  but  is  a  marvel  of  beauty 
and  strength,  and  is  nearly  equal  to  the  Spanish  Mackerel  as  a  food  fish. 

The  Bbill  is  a  European  fish  allied  to  the  turbot,  but  inferior  to  it  as  a  food 
fish.     It  is  not  found  in  American  waters. 

THE  BKEAM, 

The  American  variety  belongs  to  the  species  of  suiifish,  and  is 
not  very  highly  esteemed.  It  is  best  cooked  as  a  jjan-fish — that  is 
fried  or  sauted  in  the  frying  pan. 

The  European  variety  is  much  used  for  food.  There  is  much  confusion  in  the 
use  of  the  name  "bream,"  as  it  is  applied  both  to  a  sea*fish  and  to  several  varie- 
ties of  fresh  water  fish. 

BLUEFISH. 

This  is  excellent  stuffed  and  baked  as  previously  directed  for 
baked  fish,  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter.  Serve  with  it  any  fish 
sauce  liked  best.  (2)  It  can  be  boiled  as  directed  for  boiling  fish, 
at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter.  Or  (3)  it  can  be  cut  in  steaks  and 
fried  in  salt  pork  fat  in  the  frying  pan,  or  cut  in  pieces,  egg  and 
bread^crumbed,  and  fried  in  smoking  hot  fat  till  of  a  golden  brown 
color.  Garnish  as  directed  for  fried  fish  at  the  beginning  of  this 
chapter. 

The  bluefish  is  an  American  fish,  and  it  has  never  been  found  on  the  coast  of 
Europe.  It  is  the  most  destructive 
fish  known,  devouring  eagerly  all  other 
varieties  of  fish.  The  size  of  the  fish 
varies  in  different  localities  from  2  or 
3  lbs.  on  the  southern  coast,  to  15  or 
20  lbs.  on  the  northern  coasts.  The 
flesh  is  sweet  and  savory  but  does 
not  keep  very  well.  They  appear  on 
the  coast  from  May  to  October.  the  bluefish. 

BUTTERFISH. 

These  are  excellent  when  fresh  if  fried  in  salt  pork  fat  in  the 
frying  pan.  They  can  also  be  broiled  or  filleted  as  directed  for  fish 
at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter.  They  are  nice  boiled  and  a  good 
sauce  served  with  them. 

The  butterfish  is  found  along  the  Atlantic  coast  from  Maine  to  the  Carolinas 
They  attain  a  length  of  7  or  8  inches.  Their  flavor  somewhat  resembles  the 
mackerel,  but  they  are  not  so   oily.      They   are  excellent   eating   when    properly 


FISH  63 

cooked.  When  freshly  caught  their  color  is  iridescent  and  beautiful,  resembling 
the  dolphin.  The  "Harvest=fish,"  "Dollar=fish,"  "Sheepshead,"  "Skipjack"  and 
"Starsfish"  are  different  names  applied  to  this  fish  or  to  nearly  allied  species. 

THE  CARP. 

Dress,  and  if  it  comes  from  stagnant  or  muddy  water  let  it  soak 
in  salt  water  for  an  hour,  or  sprinkle  on  salt  and  let  it  stand  over 
night.  (1)  It  is  nice  stuffed  and  baked  as  previously  directed  for 
baking  fish.  Or  (2)  it  can  be  stewed  as  directed  previously  for  fish, 
and  garnished  with  fried  bread.  (3)  It  is  also  nice  fried  as  directed 
previously  for  fish.  .  It  may  be  improved  by  letting  it  soak  a  little 
while  before  cooking  it,  in  vinegar  flavored  with  thyme,  parsley  and 
nutmeg. 

The  carp  is  a  native  of  Asia,  but  it  has  been  naturalized  in  many  countries  on 
account  of  its  value  as  food.  It  is  said  to  live  150  to  200  years.  Its  weight  is 
from  3  or  4  lbs.  at  3  years  of  age,  to  15  or  20  lbs.  at  6  or  7  years.  It  prefers  stag- 
nant or  slowly  running  waters  with  a  muddy  bottom.  Its  quality  depends  much 
upon  its  habitat.  In  stagnant  water  it  tastes  strongly  muddy.  It  should  then  be 
freshened  by  soaking  it  in  salted  water. 

CATFISH. 

Dress  and  always  soak  it  in  salted  water,  or  leave  it  over  night 
with  salt  sprinkled  on,  to  remove  the  muddy  taste.  (1)  It  can  then 
be  cooked  as  previously  directed  for  "Stewed  Fish."  (2)  Fried. 
Prepare  it  as  above,  then  drain,  dredge  with  flour  or  corn=meal,  and 
fry  in  a  little  fat.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve.  Waffles 
are  nice  with  this  dish.  (3)  It  is  also  good  when  steamed.  (4)  Cut 
it  in  pieces  and  fry  it  in  smoking  hot  fat,  proceeding  as  directed  for 
cooking  fish  by  these  methods  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

CATFISH  CHOWDER — Dress  the  fish  and  let  it  soak  a  little 
while  in  salted  water.'  Then  boil  it,  (in  just  enough  water  to  cover 
it)  until  tender.  Take  out  the 
largest  bones,  chop  the  fish,  and 
put  it  into  a  stew  pan;  add  2 
cups  hot  water,  1  cup  milk  or 
cream,  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 
1  onion,  1    teaspoon    mustard, 

salt,   pepper  and  A  teacup  wal-  ^^^  catfish. 

nut  catsup;  stew  till   thick  and 
serve  hot.     Garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 

The  catfish  is  a  species  of  the  family  siluridae  and  is  found  in  American  rivers 
and  lakes.  The  common  catfish  or  horned  pout  of  the  eastern  states  attains  a 
length  of  7  to  9  inches,  but  in  the  west  and  in  the  great  lakes  they  sometimes  grow 
to  a  length  of  4  feet  and  attain  a  weight  of  50  to  150  lbs. 

" The  Bull-head"  " Bull=}jout"  and  '■' Horned-itout"  of  the  eastern  states  is  the 
common  representative  of  the  catfish  in  those  regions.     They  are  detested  by  those 


64  FISH 

■who  do  not  like  them,  but  that  is  partly,  at  least,  owing  to  not  cooking  them  prop- 
erly. When  well  cooked  they  are  very  palatable,  resembling  the  eel  in  texture  and 
flavor.  Many  of  our  common  fish  are  not  appreciated  as  they  deserve  to  be  for 
food. 

THE  CHAR. 

The  char  belongs  to  the  same  species  and  is  very  similar  to  the 
trout.  The  method  of  cooking  is  the  same.  It  is  a  delicious  food 
fish.     (See  Trout.) 

THE  CHUB. 

This  is  best  fried  in  the  frying-pan  after  being  caught,  as  direct- 
ed for  frying  fish  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

The  chub  is  closely  related  to  the  dace  and  minnows.  It  reaches  a  length  of  10 
or  12  inches  and  rarely  attains  a  weight  of  5  lbs.  There  are  many  American  spe- 
cies, but  they  are  not  highly  esteemed  for  food. 

CODFISH. 

When  fresh,  the  cod  is  excellent  stuffed  and  baked  as  previously 
directed  for  baking  fish.  (2)  It  is  excellent  also  stewed  or  fried,  as 
directed  for  fish.  (3)  It  is  nice  boiled  whole  as  directed  for  other 
fish,  but  if  boiled  quite  fresh  it  is  apt  to  be  watery;  it  is  rendered 
firmer  by  being  salted  a  little.  If  a  large  cod  is  boiled  whole  the 
upper  part  is  so  much  thicker  than  the  tail  that  the  latter  may  be 
boiled  to  rags  before  the  rest  is  cooked.  The  head  and  shoulders 
are  therefore  generally  boiled;  the  rest  may  be  fried,  or  stewed  in 
slices.  (4)  Cold  boiled  cod  is  very  nice  creamed,  curried  or  escal- 
loped  as  directed  for  preparing  fish  in  these  ways,  at  the  beginning 
of  this  chapter. 

CODFISH  BALLS.— Make  as  previously  directed  for  "Fish 
Balls." 

ESCALLOPED  CODFISH.— If  salt  codfish  is  used,  freshen  it  by 
soaking  it  in  water  or  sour  milk.  Then  proceed  as  previously  di- 
rected for  "  Escalloped  Fish." 

BROILED  SALT  CODFISH — Soak  it  ^  hour  in  cold  water,  dry, 
and  broil  10  or  12  minutes  over  a  moderate  fire.  Put  it  on  a  warm 
platter  and  spread  on  butter,  cutting  it  in  several  places  to  let  the 
butter  penetrate  the  fish,  and  serve. 

CODFISH  TOAST. — Shred  1  teacup  nice  salt  codfish,  and  soak 
it  over  night  in  cold  water.  In  the  morning  thicken  2  cups  milk 
slightly  with  flour,  add  1  well  beaten  egg,  and  boil  ^  hour;  then  add 
the  codfish  (which  should  have  been  well  drained  in  a  colander) 
and  let  it  boil  5  miivutes  longer,  and  spread  it  over  nice  well  but- 
tered toast;  serve  hot. 


FISH  65 

SALT  CODFISH  OMELET.— Soak  a  piece  of  codfish  about  3 
inches  square  over  night.  Split  3  crackers  and  lay  them  in  enough 
cold  water  to  cover  them.  Pick  the  fish  up  fine  and  mix  well  with 
the  crackers,  and  add  1  well  beaten  egg,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and 
salt  and  pepper.  Take  2  cups  milk  and  1  teaspoon  of  corn=starch  and 
boil  5  minutes,  and  pour  it  over  the  other  ingredients.  Bake  20  min 
utes. 

CODFISH  TONGUES.— Wash  them  thoroughly  in  cold  water 
and  then  boil  them  in  slightly  salted  water.  When  done,  drain 
them,  arrange  them  on  a  napkin  on  a  hot  dish,  and  garnish  with 
slices  of  lemon  and  parsley.  Serve  cream  sauce  with  them.  Time 
to  boil  about  |  hour. 

COD  SOUNDS — These  usually  come  salted.  Soak  them  all 
night  in  cold  water,  then  scrape  and  rub  off  the  dark  skin  with  a 
cloth,  wash  thoroughly,  and  then  boil  them  very  gently  in  equal 
parts  of  fresh  milk  and  water  until  tender.  Be  careful  to  remove 
the  scum  as  it  rises.  Serve  them  on  a  hot  napkin  with  egg  sauce. 
Time  to  boil  about  f  hour  per  pound. 

SCROD — This  is  a  term  applied  in  the  east  to  small  cod.  They 
can  soak  over  night  in  salted  water  and  then  be  boiled  or  fried,  as 
previously  directed  for  fish  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

TOMCODS — These  are  small  codfish.  They  are  nice  fried  as 
follows.  Do  not  remove  the  heads,  but  dress,  clean,  dry,  and  rub 
salt  on  the  inside.  Dredge  with  flour  and  fry  a  golden  brown  in 
deep,-  smoking  hot  fat.  (2)  They  can  also  be  baked.  Dress  as 
above,  put  in  the  baking  pan,  put  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  on  each  one, 
add  pepper  and  salt,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Time  to  bake  about 
20  minutes.  S^rve  with  slices  of  lemon.  They  are  sometimes  called 
"  Tommies." 

The  Codfish  is  found  in  the  northern  Atlantic,  but  is  not  known  in  tlie  Med- 
iterranean sea.  It  is  the  most  important  of  our  food  fishes.  Cod  tonfjues,  and 
sounds,  {i.  e.  airbladders)  are  esteemed  a  delicacy,  and  are  often  salted  for  the 
market.  Cod  is  less  digestible  than  most  other  white  fish,  and  is  hardly  suitable 
for  invalids,  being  more  difiQcult  of  digestion  than  is  commonly  imagined. 

DACE. 

This  is  nice  either  fried  in  the  frying-pan  (sauted),  or  broiled, 
as  directed  for  cooking  fish  by  these  methods  at  the  beginning  of 
this  chapter. 

The  dace  is  common  in  western  Europe,  but  it  is  not  very  highly  esteemed  for 
food.  There  are  many  allied  species  in  the  United  States,  as  the  horned  dace 
found  in  clear  streams  in  the  east  which  attains  a  length  of  10  or  12  inches.  The 
"horns"  develop  on  the  males  in  the  breeding  season,  but  arc  absent  at  other 
times. 


66 


FISH 


The  John  Doky  is  a  marine  fish  found  on  the  coasts  of  Europe.     It  has  a 

large  head  with  a  black  spot  on  each  side,  and  it  attains  a  length  of  18  inches. 
The  French  Canadians  apply  the  name  to  a  species  of  pike.  It  is  not  found  in 
America. 

THE  DRUM. 

The  young  make  a  fine  pan=fish,  ?.  e.  fried  in  the  frying  pan. 
The  large  ones  are  not  much  esteemed  for  food. 

The  drum  derives  its  name  from  the  drumming  noise  which  it  makes.  It  is 
found  on  the  gulf  coast  and  as  far  north  as  Maryland.  When  young  and  fresh  the 
flavor  is  agreeable,  but  the  flesh  is  coarse  though  tender. 

EELS. 

Eels  should  always  be  skinned,  and  the  head  cut  off  and  thrown 
away.  They  can  then  be  washed  dried,  and  cut  into  lengths  about 
3  inches  long.  They  are  sometimes  allowed  to  then  soak  a  short 
time  in  a  little  water  and  vinegar,  which  improves  them.  They  can 
then  be  fried,  as  previously 
directed  for  frying  fish,  in 
deep  smoking  hot  fat.  Serve 
tomato,  pickle  or  any  acid 
sauce  with  them.  They  can 
also  be  broiled,  stewed  or 
boiled  as  directed  for  cook- 
ing fish  by  those  methods  at 
the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 


CONGEB    EEIi. 


THE  FLOUNDER. 

This  is  nice  fried.  Scrape  the  fish,  cut  off  the  head  and  tail, 
wash,  dry,  and  fry  as  directed  for  frying  fish.  Time  to  fry  about  6 
or  7  minutes.  They  are  often  broiled  as  directed  for  fish  at  the 
beginning  of  this  chapter.  They  make  nice  fillets  also.  Serve  a 
good  fish  sauce  with  the  latter. 

The  Floundee  is  found  along  the 
Atlantic  coast  from  Cape  Cod  to  Florida. 
They  lie  upon  the  bottom  or  bury  them- 
Helves  in  the  sand.  They  attain  a  length 
of  12  to  30  inches,  and  a  weight  of  2  to  8 
lbs.  It  is  a  flat  fish  having  both  t yes  on 
the  same  side  of  the  head.  The  upper 
side  is  darker  than  the  lower.  They  live 
long  out  of  the  water.  The  flounder  is 
easy  of  digestion,  but  is  best  broiled 
when  intended  for  weak  stomachs. 

FROGS. 
The  hind  legs  only  are  used.     Skin  and  put  them  for  3  minutes 
in  boiling  salted  %vater  containing  a  little  lemon  juice;  then  drain 
and  wipe  dry.     Fry  the  fat  from  2  or  3  slices  of  thin  salt  pork;  dip 


FLOUNDEB. 


FISH  67 

the  frogs'  legs  in  beaten  egg  and  then  m  flour,  and  fry  a  delicate 
brown.  Or  (2)  dip  them  in  bread  crumbs,  then  season  with  j)epper 
and  salt,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  a  golden 
brown  in  smoking  hot  fat.  (3)  If  preferred  they  can  be  broiled. 
Or  (4)  stew  them  in  a  little  water  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and 
herbs;  stew  until  tender,  then  let  the  water  boil  out,  put  in  a  bit  of 
butter  and  let  them  brown.  Serve  with  parsley,  water-cresses  or 
X>e.pper-grass  and  lettuce.  (5)  Frogs'  legs  are  also  made  into  a  broth 
the  same  as  chicken  broth. 

Seventy  years  ago,  Charles  Lamb  wrote  to  a  friend:  "Since  I  saw  you  I  tiave 
been  in  France  and  have  eaten  frogs,  the  nicest  little  rabbity  things  you  ever  tast- 
ed. Pick  ofif  the  hind^quarters;  boil  them  plain,  and  serve  with  parsley  and 
butter.'' 

THE  GKAYLING. 

This  belongs  to  the  same  species  as  the  trout.  It  is  found  in 
Europe  and  America,  but  is  con- 
fined to  special  localities.  It  is 
a  very  gamey  fish,  and  is  deli- 
cious eating.  It  is  cooked  in  the 
same  ways  as  brook  trout 
(which  see).  the  gbayling. 

The  Gudgeon  is  a  European  fish  belonging  to  the  carp  family.  It  is  not  com- 
mon in  the  U.  S. 

GUENARD. 

The  large  ones  can  be  boiled,  or  stewed,  or  stuffed  and  baked,  as 
previously  directed  for  cooking  fish  by  those  methods.  Small  ones 
can  be  broiled  or  fried,  as  directed  for  fish,  at  the  beginning  of  this 
chapter. 

The  gurnard  is  much  eaten  in  Europe,  but  is  neglected  in  America.  The  flesh 
is  a  flaky  white,  firm,  and  most  agreeable  eating.     It  deserves  more  attention. 

HADDOCK. 

When  fresh  the  haddock  is  very  nice  (1)  broiled  or  (2)  stuffed 
or  (3)  baked.  It  is  also  good  (4)  boiled  or  (5)  steamed,  or  (6) 
fried,  and  (7)  it  makes  a  splendid  chowder.  (8)  It  is  also  nice 
filleted.  Proceed  as  previously  directed  for  cooking  fish  by  those 
methods,  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

Smoked  haddock,  if  very  salt,  should  be  soaked  1  or  2  hours  in 
water.  Then  the  simplest  and  best  way  to  cook  it  is  to  broil  it  over  a 
clear  fire.  Time  to  boil  1  to  10  minutes  according  to  its  thickness. 
Rub  on  butter  before  sending  it  to  the  table.  It  can  also  be  boiled, 
or  boiled  a  short  time  and  then  baked. 


(38  FISH 

DRIED  HADDOCK,  STEWED— Warm  the  haddock  before  the 
fire  just  enough  to  make  the  skin  peel  off  easily.  Cut  it  into  i^ieces 
down  the  middle,  and  2  or  3  times  across.  Put  it  into  a  closed 
saucepan,  with  a  lump  of  butter  and  a  teaspoon  of  water  and  stew 
gently  a  few  minutes. 

The  haddock  is  found  in  both  the  Atlantic  and  Pacific  oceans  and  immense 
quantities  are  now  caught.  Their  average  length  is  about  10  to  15  inches,  and 
their  weight  3  or  4  lbs.  although  they  sometimes  attain  a  weight  of  12  or  15  lbs. 
When  very  large  its  flesh  is  coarse.  It  does  not  take  salt  as  well  as  the  cod, 
although  it  belongs  to  the  same  family,  and  it  is  often  smoked  and  dried.  It  is  in 
season  from  October  to  January.  It  is  wholesome,  nutritious,  and  easy  of  diges- 
tion. 

HAKE, 

This  fish  is  not  often  eaten  except  when  salted,  but  it  is  some- 
times (1)  boiled,  or  (2)  stuffed  and  baked,  or  (3)  stewed,  or  (4) 
made  into  fillets,  the  methods  being  the  same  as  directed  for  other 
fish  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter.  When  salted  and  dried  it 
much  resembles  codfish,  and  is  often  sold  for  it.  The  method  of 
cooking  is  the  same. 

The  hake  belongs  to  the  cod  family 
and  is  found  in  the  North  Atlantic.  It  is 
sometimes  3  or  4  feet  in  length.  Its 
flesh  is  white  and  flaky.. 

illl    IlAIvl  . 

THE  HALIBUT. 

This  excellent  fish  is  nice  either  (1)  baked,  (2)  broiled,  (3) 
boiled,  (4)  steamed,  or  (5)  made  into  fillets,  as  previously  directed 
for  cooking  fish  by  those  methods.  (6)  When  cold  it  is  excellent 
creamed  or  j)repared  by  the  other  recipes  given  for  cold  fish  at 
the  beginning  of  this  chajpter. 

HALIBUT  STEAKS— Fry  the  fat  thoroughly  from  4  thick  slices 
of  clear  salt  pork;  take  out  the  pork  when  crisp;  roll  the  steaks  in 
flour  or  yellow  corn^meal,  and  put  in  the  pan;  fry  over  a  hot  fire,  but 
do  not  scorch;  when  done  on  one  side,  turn  carefully  with  a  fish  or 
pie  knife,  and  when  done,  have  both  sides  a  golden  brown.  Place 
the  fish  on  a  platter;  send  to  the  table,  with  cream  gravy  made  in 
the  pan  after  taking  up  the  fish.     Serve  with  cucumber  pickles. 

HALIBUT,  PICKLED— Take  a  piece  of  cold  boiled  halibut,  put 
it  in  a  bowl  and  pour  over  it  hot  vinegar  in  which  has  been  boiled 
for  8  or  10  minutes  a  little  red  pepper  and  1  blade  of  mace;  let  it 
stand  2  days  before  using. 


FISH 


69 


The  halibut  is  emphatically  a  cold 
water  fish,  being  found  in  the  north 
Atlantic  and  Pacific  oceans.  It  is 
the  largest  of  the  cold  water  fish, 
sometimes  attaining  a  weight 
of  300  lbs.  Those  weighing  SO 
to  iO  lbs.  are  best.  Its  eyes  are 
both  on  the  same  side  of  the  head, 
and  it  is  dark  on  the  upper  and  white 
on  the  lower  side.  The  flesh  is 
white  and  firm,  but  dry.  It  is  high- 
ly esteemed  for  food,  but  is  not  equal 
to  the  turbot. 


THE    HALIBUT. 


THE  HERRING. 

Fresh,  herrings  are  excellent  either  (1)  broiled  or  grilled,  or  (2) 
baked,  or  (3)  boiled,  or  (4)  fried,  or  (5)  made  into  fillets,  as  directed 
for  cooking  fish  by  those  methods,  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

SMOKED  HERRING,  BROILED.— Let  them  stand  10  minutes 
covered  with  boiling  water.  Then  skin,  wipe  dry,  and  broil  them 
over  clear  coals.  Put  them  on  a  warm  dish,  moisten  with  butter, 
and  serve.     Time  to  broil,  about  7  or  8  minutes. 

The  herring  is  the  most  important  food  fish  known.  Enormous  quantities  are 
caught  every  year.  It  is  eaten  fresh,  and  is  smoked,  dried  and  pickled.  It  is  very 
oily,  and  not  very  digestible,  but  it  is  exceedingly  nutritious.  The  so  called  her- 
ring of  the  great  lakes  is  a  kind  of  whitefish. 

Bloateb  is  an  English  name  applied  to  herring  prepared  for  the  market  by 
slightly  salting,  smoke-drying,  etc. 

THE  LAMPREY. 

The  lamprey  is  like  a  very  tough  eel.  It  can  be  cooked  like  eel, 
only  it  requires  to  cook  longer,     (See  eel.) 


The  lamprey  is  an  eeHike  fish,  having  a  car- 
tilagenous  body,  without  scales,  and  a  round, 
sucking  mouth  with  numerous  teeth.  It  is  found 
in  Europe,  and  there  are  several  species  in  the 
U.  S.  They  are  very  tenaceous  of  life,  and  are 
prized  by  some  for  food.  . 


THE    LAMPBBY. 


LING,  CUSK  OR  BURBOT 

The  ling  is  caught  in  the  northern  seas,  and  it  is  a  fish  belong- 
ing to  the  same  family  as  the  cod  and  hake,  which  it  much  resembles. 
It  can  be  (1)  boiled  or  (2)  fried  or  (3)  stewed,  treating  it  the  same 
as  the  cod,  and  (4)  it  makes  a  good  soup.  The  fish  is  wholesome 
and  nutritious,  alihough  not  much  used  fresh.  It  takes  salt  well, 
and  large  quantities  are  prepared  for  the  market.     It  is  also  dried. 

Cusk,  Burbot  and  Eehpoiit  are  otSer  names  for  the  same  or  very 
similar  fish. 


70  FISH 

MACKEKEL. 

•  This  fish  is  excellent  if  eaten  fresh,  but  it  spoils  easily.  In 
dressing  and  cleaning  be  careful  not  to  break  the  skin.  One  of  the 
best  ways  to  cook  it  is  to  broil  it.  Time  to  broil,  15  to  20  minutes. 
(2)  It  is  excellent  steamed,  and  many  people  can  eat  it  that  way  who 
cannot  when  broiled.  It  is  also  good  (3)  when  boiled  or  (4)  fried  or 
or  (5)  filleted,  proceeding  as  previously  directed  for  cooking  fish  by 
those  methods  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

PICKLED  MACKEREL.— Boil  fresh  mackerel.  Then  take  the 
liquor  it  was  cooked  in,  add  1  cuj)  vinegar,  ^  oz.  whole  black  pepper, 
2  bay  leaves,  and  boil  all  7  or  8  minutes;  pour  it  over  the  mackerel, 
cover  tightly,  and  let  stand  24  hours,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

BROILED  SALT  MACKEREL.— Take  a  medium  sized  salt  mack- 
erel and  soak  it  over  night  in  cold  water.  In  the  morning  dry  it, 
rub  on  a  little  butter,  and  broil  it  nicely,  but  not  too  long.  When 
done,  plunge  it  into  boiling  water  a  moment,  which  makes  it  swell 
up  and  look  fat.  Then  put  it  on  a  hot  plate,  add  a  little  melted  but- 
ter, lemon  juice  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

CREAMED  SALT  MACKEREL.— Soak  the  fish  over  night,  and 
wipe  dry  the  next  morning;  heat  the  gridiron,  butter  it,  and  broil  the 
fish  over  a  clear  fire;  lay  it  on  a  hot  platter  while  you  make  a  sauce 
as  follows:  Heat  1  cup  of  milk  to  near  boiling,  and  thicken  it  with 
2  teaspoons  of  corn^starch  rubbed  smooth  in'  2  teaspoons  of  butter; 
add  salt,  pepper,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  when  taken  from 
the  stove  and  partly  cool,  stir  in  1  beaten  egg;  then  pour  it  over  the 
fish  and  serve.     A  nice  breakfast  dish  in  hot  weather. 

The  mackerel  is  found  in  the  northern  Atlantic,  and  immense  quantities  are 
used  as  food.  Its  usual  length  is  about  16  to  18  inches,  and  its  weight  2  lbs.  It  is 
very  nourishing  although  difficult  of  digestion  by  weak  stomachs. 

The  "  Spanish  Maokeeel  ''  is  caught  on  the  Atlantic  coast,  but  it  is  not  very 
highly  esteemed  for  food. 

THE  MENHADDEN. 

This  fish  is  best  (1)  broiled,  or  (2)  fried,  or  (3)  filleted,  proceed- 
ing as  directed  for  cooking  fish  by  those  methods,  at  the  beginning 
of  this  chapter. 

The  menhadden  belongs  to  the  same  family  as  the  shad  and  herring,  and  is 
extensively  caught  along  the  Atlantic  coast  of  the  U.  S.  It  is  not  much  eaten  fresh, 
as  it  is  full  of  bones  and  very  oily.  It  is  now  put  up  and  sold  for  sardines,  the 
bones  being  softened  by  steam.  • 

THE  MULLET. 

This  fish  frequently  has  an  earthy  taste.  That  can  be  removed, 
as  in  other  fish,  by  soaking  it  in  salted  water  for  an  hour  or  two,  or 


FISH  71 

sprinkle  on  salt  and  leave  it  over  night.  It  can  then  be  stuffed  and 
baked  as  previously  directed  for  baking  fish.  (2)  It  can  also  be  split 
and  broiled.  Or  (3)  it  may  be  fried,  or  (4)  filleted.  It  is  sometimes 
(5)  boiled  or  (6)  steamed,  proceeding  as  directed  for  fish  at  the  be- 
ginning of  this  chapter. 

Mullet  Roes  are  often  eaten  raw  and  they  are  also  salted  and  dried 
in  the  sun.  They  are  then  eaten  raw  like  dried  beef,  or  they  can  be 
fried. 

The  mullet  is  found  in  both  Europe 
and  the  U.  S.  The  red  mullet  of  Europe 
is  considered  the  best.  The  mullet  is 
very  plentiful  along  the  gulf  coast  of 
the  U.  S.,  and  two  varieties  are  found, 
the  Striped  and  White.  It  attains  an 
average    length   of    about  a   foot    and  steiped  mullet. 

weight  of  about  1%  lbs. 

MUSKELLUNGE. 

(1)  This  fish  is  nice  stuffed  and  baked  as  previously  directed 
for  baking  fish.  (2)  It  is  often  cut  in  pieces  the  right  size  for 
the  table,  rolled  in  corn  meal,  and  fried  in  smoking  hot  fat  like 
doughnuts,  until  of  a  rich  golden  brown.  (3)  It  is  also  often  fried 
in  the  frying-pan  in  salt  pork  fat,  and  garnished  with  the  crisp  slices 
of  pork.  It  can  also  be  (4)  stewed  as  directed  for  stewing  fish  at  the 
beginning  of  this  chapter. 

The  muskellunge  belongs  to  the  pike  family,  and  is  found  in  the  Great  Lakes 
and  the  St.  Lawrence  river.  The  flesh  is  superior  to  that  of  any  of  the  rest  of  the 
species  of  pike.     It  is  sometimes  called  "  lake  trout." 

THE  PEECH. 

To  facilitate  removing  the  scales  it  may  be  plunged  into  boiling 
water  for  a  moment.  It  is  in  America  quite  generally  fried  in  the 
frying  pan  with  salt  pork  fat.  (2)  It  is  nice  fried  in  deep  fat  as 
previously  directed  for  frying  fish.  (3)  It  is  also  good  broiled  or 
(4)  stewed,  as  directed  for  cooking  fish  by  those  methods,  at  the 
beginning  of  this  chapter. 

The  true  perch  is  the  common  yellow  perch  of  Europe  and  America.  In  re- 
gions where  the  true  perch  is  not  found  the  name  is  loosely  applied  to  various 
fishes.  All  the  true  perches  are  confined  to  the  north  temperate  zone.  This  fish 
loves  still  waters  and  is  very  voraceous  and  tenaceous  of  life.  The  flesh  is  firm,  of 
good  flavor  and  digestible. 

PICKEREL. 

This  fish  is  cooked  in  the  same  ways  as  pike,  (which  see). 

The  pickeiel  is  a  diminutive  pike.  It  is  rarely  more  than  a  foot  in  length,  but 
it  sometimes  attains  a  weight  of  5  to  8  lbs.  The  flesh  is  the  same  as  the  pike's. 
In  the  southern  states  it  is  called  the  "  Jack." 


72  FISH 

PIKE. 

This  fish  should  be  carefully  scaled  and  cleaned.  It  is  very  nice 
stuffed  and  baked  as  i^reviously  directed  for  baking  fish.  (2)  It 
can  also  be  boiled  or  (3)  fried  or  (4)  stewed  or  (5)  filleted,  as  pre- 
viously directed  for  cooking  fish  by  those  methods,  at  the  beginning 
of  this  chapter. 

and  America,  and  is  exceedingly  vora-       !^^^^^M^M^^~^  "-^^^ ""^^^j!!^  --^^v^. 

The  fleah  is  much  esteemed  for  food,  ^^i        '.— — j^  l^'^^:  ""~Z^^^^^ 

although  jfc  is  ratlier  dry.       Those  of  ^"^  ~—  =^  '  ^ 

moderjite    size    are    better    than    very  ^^^  pike. 

large  ontv.     Tiie  roe  of  the  pike  is  made  into  caviare,  and  in  some  countries  the 
flesh  is  dried  and  salted. 

THE  PLAICE. 

This  is  an  excellent  fish,  the  best  being  those  with  a  thick,  firm 
body.  Large  fish  should  be  skinned,  but  small  ones  need  not  be, 
but  it  is  best  to  remove  the  head  and  fins,  and  clean  thoroughly. 
The  fish  is  excellent  (1)  boiled,  or  (2)  baked,  or  (8)  broiled,  or  (4) 
fried,  and  (5)  it  is  very  nice  steamed.  (6)  Small  ones  are  proba- 
bly best  fried  or  baked.  Proceed  as  directed  for  cooking  fish  by 
these  various  methods,  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

The  plaice  belongs  to  the  same  family  as  the  flounder  and  turbot.  It  is  a  flat 
fish  having  both  eyes  on  the  same  side  of  the  head.  It  seeks  sandy  and  muddy 
bottoms,  and  attains  a  weight  of  6  to  12  lbs.  It  is  light,  digestible,  and  -when  fresh 
has  a  delicate  flavor.     Invalids  can  eat  it  without  fear. 

THE   PORGY. 
This  fish  is  found  along  the  southern  Atlantic  coasts.     It  is  -best 
fried  in  the  frying  pan,  with  salt  pork  fat. 

RED  SNAPPER. 

This  fish  is  best  (1)  boiled,  or  (2)  stuffed  and  baked  as  previous- 
ly directed  for  cooking  fish  by  those  methods,  (3)  It  also  makes  an 
excellent  chowder.  Medium  sized  fish  will  boil  in  30  to  40  minutes, 
while  to  bake  them  will  take  about  1  hour. 

Snapper  is  a  name  applied  to  several  different  fish  in  the  U.  S.  The  red  snap- 
per is  a  fish  found  along  the  gulf  coast  of  the  U.  S.  It  resembles  the  porgy  aud  is 
highly  esteemed  for  food. 

THE  POLLOCK  OR  COALFISH. 

This  fish  is  found  in  the  north  Atlantic  and  belongs  to  the 
same  family  as  the  cod  and  whiting.  Owing  to  an  unwise  pre- 
judice it  is  very  much  underestimated  as  food.  Some  who  have  in- 
vestigated  the   subject   say  that  they  prefer  it,  when  salted,  to  cod. 


FISH  73 

It  is  rather  deficient  in  flavor,  but  makes   a   gooa   curry.     It  can  be 
cooked  by  any  of  the  recipes  given  elsewhere  for  codfish. 

THE  POMPANO. 

This  fish  can  be  (1)  broiled,  or  (2)  baked  or  (3)  boiled  or 
(4)  steamed  or  (5)  filleted,  as  directed  for  cooking  fish  by  those 
methods  at  the  beginning  of  this 
chapter. 

The  pompano  is  found  both  on 
the  Atlantic  and  Pacific  coasts.  It  ap- 
pears chiefly  in  the  summer  and  fall. 
There  are  several  varieties.  The  flesh 
is  fat,  rich  and  delicious,  being  consid- 
ered the  best  of  all  the  food  fishes,  and 
they  usually  command  a  very  high 
price. 

THE     POMPANO. 

THE  KAY  OR  SKATE. 

This  fish  can  be  either  (1)  boiled  or  (2)  fried  or  (3)  stewed  or 
(4)  curried,  as  previously  directed  for  cooking  fish  by  those  methods. 
The  Skate  is  a  species  of  the  Ray  family. 

THE  ROACH. 

This  fish  is  probably  best  (1)  fried,  but  (2)  is  also  good  baked, 
(if  baked,  be  sure  and  baste  it  well.)  (3)  It  can  also  be  stewed,  or 
(4)  filleted,  proceeding  as  previously  directed  for  cooking  fish  by 
those  methods,  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

The  roach  belongs  to  the  same  family  as  the  carp,  dace,  etc.  It  is  common  to 
both  Europe  and  America.  The  name  is  applied  in  America  to  several  species  of 
fish,  and  sometimes  to  sunfish. 

FISH  ROES. 

The  hard,  yellow,  granular  roe  is  the  spawn  or  eggs  of  fish, 
and  comes  from  the  female,  and  the  soft  whitish  roe  is  the  milt, 
which  comes  from  the  male.  For  frying  (either  the  hard  or  the  soft) 
wash  them,  then  parboil  by  putting  them  for  10  minutes  in  boiling 
salted  water  containing  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar;  then  take  out,  plunge 
in  cold  water,  drain,  egg  and  bread=crumb,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  till  a 
nice  brown.  They  are  also  sometimes  sauted  or  fried  in  a  frying- 
pan,  being  first  cut  in  slices  f  inch  thick  and  egg  and  breads  crumbed. 

FISH  ROES,  BAKED.— Parboil  them  in  slightly  salted  water 
for  10  minutes;  then  drain  them  on  a  cloth,  lay  them  on  thin  slices 
of  breakfast=bacon  in  a  baking=tin,  place  thin  slices  of  bacon  over  the 
roe,  and  set  it  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  bacon  is  baked  crisp  and  brown. 
Serve  with  any  one  of  the  fish  sauces  preferred. 


74  FISH 

FISH  ROES,  BOILED.— Boil  them  m  slightly  salted  water  lor 
30  minutes;  if  small,  they  will  cook  in  less  time.  Do  not  let  them 
break  in  pieces.  In  the  meantime  make  a  nice  butter  gravy,  add  to 
it  a  very  little  chojoped  parsley,  and  pour  it  over  the  roe,  after  plac- 
ing it  on  a  hot  platter. 

FISH  ROES,  BROILED.— Parboil  the  roes  for  10  or  15  minutes 
in  slightly  salted  water  to  harden  them,  drain  on  a  cloth,  and  wipe 
them  dry;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker-crumbs,  and  broil  over  a 
clear  fire  of  coals  until  well  browned  on  both  sides;  place  them  on  a 
hot  -  platter,  spread  them  with  butter,  or  pour  over  them  any  fish 
sauce  preferred. 

The  fecundity  of  fish  has  always  excited  the  wonder  of  naturalists.  The  males 
have  the  milt,  and  the  females  the  ?*oe.  The  greater  number  deposit  their  spawn  in 
the  sand  or  gravel,  but  some  of  those  who  dwell  in  the  depths  of  the  ocean  attach 
their  eggs  to  sea=weeds.  According  to  Lewenhoeck,  the  cod  annually  spawn  up- 
wards of  9,000,000  of  eggs;  the  flounder  1,000.000,  the  sturgeon  700,000;  the  perch 
■iOO.OOO  the  mackerel  500,000;  the  herring  10,000.  Fish  roes  form  a  cheap  and  ap- 
petizing dish  for  those  who  like  them. 

SALMON. 

Probably  the  two  best  ways  of  cooking  salmon  are  by  ( 1 )  broiling, 
or  (2)  boiling.  (3)  Salmon  steaks  are  very  nice  broiled,  steamed  or 
fried.  (4)  Fillets  of  salmon  are  nice  fried;  or  first  parboiled  or 
steamed,  and  then  stewed  in  a  good  brown  or  matelote  sauce.  In 
cooking  salmon  by  the  above  methods  proceed  as  directed  for  cook- 
ing fish  by  those  methods  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

Cold  Salmon,  may  be  prepared  by  any  of  the  various  recipes  giv- 
en for  cold  fish  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

Salmon  is  nice  spiced,  as  directed  in  our  recipe  for  spiced  fish 
previously  given. 

SALMON  CUTLETS — Cut  slices  of  salmon  -^  inch  thick,  remove 
skin  and  bone,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  on  flour,  dip  in 
beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Or  they  can  be 
fried  in  a  frying=pan. 

SALMON  STEAKS — Salmon  steaks  are  good  broiled  and  served 
with  piccalilli  heated  and  piled  in  the  middle,  and  with  a  hot  sauce 
poured  round,  but  not  over  the  fish.  A  very  simple  but  delicious 
way  of  cooking  salmon  is  to  cut  it  in  slices,  and  grill  it,  serving  it 
at  once  with  a  good  squeeze  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  dust  of  cayenne  on 
v^ach  side. 

Large  Trout  cooked  in  the  same  way  are  equally  good. 

SALMON  TOAST — Soak  2  oz.  of  bread  crumbs  in  cold  milL 
and  mix  with  a  can  of  salmon   which   has  been  worked  to  a  paste. 


FISH  75 

Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  nut- 
meg, and  the  grated  peel  of  |  a  lemon.  Put  into  a  dish,  and  on  the 
top  place  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and 
when  the  top  is  slightly  brown,  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

CANNED  SALMON — A  good  way  to  serve  it  for  breakfast,  is  to 
heat  it,  add  pepper  and  salt  to  season,  and  serve  on  slices  of  toast, 
pouring  over  milk,  thickened  with  flour  and  butter. 

Another  way  to  use  canned  salmon  is  to  put  the  can  for  about  20 
minutes  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water;  then  turn  it  into  a  dish,  and  pour 
on  drawn  butter,  to  which  finely  cut  hard  boiled  eggs  and  chopped 
parsley  has  been  added;  eat  with  mashed  potatoes. 

SALMON,  GERMAN  STYLE— Take  2  pints  sauerkraut,  boil. 
drain,  pile  it  on  a  dish,  and  make  a  hole  in  the  center;  have  1  lb. 
hot  canned  salmon  ready,  put  it  in  the  hole;  heat  and  season  the 
salmon  liquid,  pour  it  over  the  dish  and  serve. 

SMOKED  SALMON,  BROILED.— Smoked  salmon  is  nice 
washed,  drained,  and  broiled  nicely.  Then  put  it  on  a  warm  dish, 
spread  on  butter,  and  serve. 

The  Salmon  is  found  in  both  the  Atlantic  and  Pacific  oceans.  There  are  many 
varieties.  Although  the  fish  is  considered  most  delicious  when  fresh,  it  is  said  to 
be  more  wholesome  when  kept  1  or  2  days.  It  is  very  nutritious,  but  should  be 
eaten  in  moderation. 

SARDINES. 

These  are  nice  broiled.  Do  not  break  them  in  taking  from  the 
can.  Scrape  off  the  skin  carefully,  and  broil  to  a  delicate  brown 
between  double  wire  broilers.  Then  put  them  in  a  hot  dish  and 
serve  with  lemon  juice  squeezed  over  them.  They  are  also  nice  with 
orange  juice. 

To  serve  sardines,  the  oil  can  be  drained  from  them,  and  then 
place  them  on  any  small  ornamental  dish.  Some  people  cover  them 
with  fresh  olive  oil,  and  others  do  not,  as  tastes  differ.  They  can 
be  garnished  with  parsley,  pepper-grass  or  lettuce.  Set  a  dish  of 
quartered  lemons  near  them. 

SARDINES  ON  TOAST.- -Take  3  eggs,  3  sardines,  3  slices  of 
buttered  toast.  Bone  the  sardines  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar  with 
a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  and  cayenne.  Spread  this  paste  on 
the  hot  buttered  toast.  Heat  |-  pint  of  cream,  and,  when  hot,  add 
the  eggs  well  beaten  with  a  Dover  beater.  Stir  well  until  almost 
boiling;  then  pour  it  over  the  sardines  and  toast,  and  send  to  the 
table.     Sufficient  for  3  persons. 


76  FISH 

Sardines  belong  to  the  same  order  as  the  herring.  They  abound  in  the  Medi- 
terranean, and  are  also  found  in  parts  of  the  Atlantic.  They  appear  in  shoals,  are 
caught  with  nets,  and  are  salted,  dried,  soaked  in  boiling  oil  and  put  into  boxes 
and  covered  with  oil.  A  good  many  of  the  fish  sold  as  sardines  are  really  sprats, 
cured  and  preserved  in  the  same  way.  A  variety  named  anchovied  sardines  are 
sardines  that  have  been  cured  in  red  wine.  Sardines  are  very  wholesome,  and  fur- 
nish an  agreeable  addition  to  the  table. 

THE  SCUPPAUG. 

The  scup,  or  scuppaug,  is  very  abundant  in  the  eastern  market 
in  some  seasons.  (1)  Small 
ones  are  best  fried  in  the  frying 
pan.  (2)  Large  ones  can  be 
broiled,  and  a  rich  sauce  served 
with  them.  The  flesh  is  rather 
dry,  and  flavorless. 


THE    SOUPPATJG. 

SHAD. 

This  fish  is  probably  best  broiled.  The  fish  is  apt  to  be  dry. 
The  secret  of  having  it  juicy  is  to  rub  it  with  melted  butter  or  salad 
oil  before  broiling  it.  Then  broil  it  over  a  clear  coal  fire,  It  will 
take  20  or  30  minutes.  When  done,  spread  with  butter,  salt  and 
pepper.  A  cream  or  bechamel  sauce  is  often  served  with  it.  (2) 
Many  people  prefer  this  fish  baked  Stuff  and  bake  it  as  directed 
for  baking  fish.     It  will  take  from  1  to  1|  hours  to  bake, 

Dressing  for  Baked  Shad. — Boil  up  the  gravy  in  which  the  shad 
was  baked,  put  in  a  large  tablespoon  of  browned  flour  which  has  been 
wet  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons.  Pour  it 
around  the  fish  after  it  is  placed  on  the  platter,  or  serve  it  in  a  sauce= 
boat. 

(3)  It  is  also  nice  fried,  proceeding  as  directed  for  frying  fish,  at 
the  beginning  of  this  chapter.  (4)  It  is  sometimes  potted.  See  our 
recipe  for  potting  fish,  given  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

The  shad  is  found  only  in  the  northern  hemisphere.  The  American  shad 
is  best.     They  attain  a  length  of  2  to  3  feet,  and  weight  of  4  to  8  lbs. 

SHEEPSHEAD. 

This  fish  is  excellent  boiled.  Proceed  as  previously  directed  for 
boiling  fish.  (2)  It  is  probably  best  steamed.  Take  a  medium  sized 
fish,  dress,  clean,  rub  with  a  little  salt,  wrap  it  in  a  cloth  and  then 
steam.  Time  to  steam,  about  1  hour.  Then  garnish  with  parsley 
and  slices  of  lemon,  and  serve  with  drawn  butter  or  other  good  fish 


FISH  77 

sauce.  (3)  It  is  excellent  broiled.  Split  it  in  two  lengthwise, 
remove  the  head  and  backbone,  rub  on  butter  or  salad  oil,  and  broil 
over  a  clear  fire.  When  done  spread  on  butter,  add  salt  and  pepper, 
and  squeeze  on  lemon  juice,  and  serve.  (4)  It  is  also  nice  stuffed 
and  baked  as  directed  previously  for  baking  fish,  at  the  beginning  of 
this  chapter. 

The  eheepshead  is  found  in  the  warm- 
er waters  of  the  Atlantic,  south  of  Cape 
Cod.  It  sometimes  exceeds  2  feet  in 
length,  and  weighs  14  or  15  lbs.,  but  its 
average  weight  is  5  or  6  lbs.  Its  flesh  is 
very  delicate  and  has  been  likened  to  the 
English  turbot,  and  is  one  of  the  best  of 
our  food  fish. 


THE    SHEEP8HEAD. 

SMELTS. 
Smelts,  small  trout,  and  all  small  pan  fish  are  better  dressed 
with  scissors  than  with  a  knife. 

BAKED  SMELTS.— This  delicious  little  fish  is  of  a  fine  silvery 
appearance,  with  a  light"  fawn=colored  shade  on  the  back,  and  when 
fresh,  has  an  odor  resembling  cucumbers.  Wash  and  dry  them  with 
a  cloth ;  arrange  them  in  a  buttered  flat  baking  dish ;  cover  them  with 
a  layer  of  fine,  fresh  bread  crumbs,  first  sprinkling  the  fish  with  a 
little  salt  and  white  pepper;  place  bits  of  butter  over  the  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  until  a  nice  brown,  say  20  or  30  minutes.  Send  to 
the  table  in  the  dish  in  which  they  were  baked;  squeeze  the  juice  of 
a  lemon  over  them  just  before  sending  to  the  table. 

FRIED  SMELTS.— They  may  be  fried  in  a  little  butter  after  the 
manner  of  cooking  small  trout,  or  in  the  fat  of  a  slice  of  salt  pork; 
or  they  may  be  strung,  6  on  a  wire  skewer,  dipped  in  egg  and  then 
cracker  crumbs,  and  cooked  in  boiling  fat  like  doughnuts.  Sauce 
tartare  is  nice  with  them  when  fried.  So  is  anchovy,  cucumber,  or 
other  good  sauce. 

BROILED. — Clean,  split,  and  broil  them  nicely  in  a  double  wire 
broiler.     Serve  sauce  tartare  with  them,  or  slices  of  lemon. 

The  smelt  is  found  in  both  Europe  and  America,  and  belongs  to  the  same 
family  as  the  trout  and  salmon.  Most  of  the  species  inhabit  salt  water,  but  some 
are  found  in  fresh.     The  flesh  is  very  delicate. 

The  Sole. — The  English  sole  is  from  10  to  20  inches  long  and  weighs  from  1 
to  10  lbs.  It  is  a  flat  fish  like  the  turbot,  and  its  ^esh  is  much  esteemed.  In 
America  the  name  is  often  applied  to  the  "Hog=ohoker,"  "Calico"  or  "Cover- 
slip,"  a  fish  which  is  not  used  for  food. 


78 


FISH 


SPRATS. 

DRIED  SPRATS.— Let  them  stand  for  10  minutes  covered  with 
boiling  water;  then  skin,  wipe  dry,  and  broil  them  over  a  clear  fire. 
Serve  them  on  a  warm  dish  with  butter  spread  over  them.  Time  to 
broil  about  8  minutes 

Fresh  sprats  are  also  best  when  broiled;  serve  with  lemon  juice 
squeezed  on.     They  are  also  sometimes  fried. 


The  sprat 
salted. 


a  small  herring  seldom  over  6  inches  long.     It  is  often  dried  or 


THE    SQUEXEAGUK     OB    WEAKFI 


THE     SQUETEAGUE. 

This  fish  is  excellent  (1)  broiled,  or  (2)  fried,  or  (3)  filleted. 
The  larger  ones  can  be  (4)  boiled  or  (5)  steamed,  or  (6)  stufl'ed  and 
baked,  proceeding  as  previously  directed  for  cooking  fish  by  those 
methods,  at  the  beginning  of  this 
chapter. 

The  squeteague  is  found  along  the 
Atlantic  Coast  from  Cape  Cod  to  Florida. 
It  attains  a  weight  from  1  to  8  or  10 
lbs.  The  flesh  is  soft,  delicately  flavored 
and  is  highly  esteemed.  It  is  often  called 
"  Weakfish." 

STUEGEON. 

The  flesh  from  a  medium  sized  fish  will  be  found  more  tender 
and  better  than  that  of  a  very  large  one.  (1)  Small  ones  can  be 
skinned,  and  then  stuffed  and  baked  as  previously  directed  for  bak- 
ing fish.  (2)  Steaks  cut  from  sturgeon  can  be  broiled,  or  (8)  small 
cutlets  can  be  cut  out  and  fried,  or  (4)  the  flesh  can  be  stewed  as 
previously  directed  for  cooking  fish  by  those  methods.  (5)  The 
flesh  is  sometimes  allowed  to  soak  in  the  marinade  given  at  the  be- 
ginning of  this  chapter  before  being  broiled. 

This    fish   requires   more     thor- 
ough cooking  than  almost  any  other 
kind.     Its   flesh   is   more    like   meat      - 
than  that  of  any  other  fish. 

The  sturgeon  is  found  in  both  Europe 
and  America.  It  is  shark  like  in  form,  and 
has  strong  fins  but  no  scales.  The  flesh  is  ^ 
a  pale  red,  very  wholesoa:e  and  agreeable, 
and  the  flesh  of  the  back  tastes  like  veal, 
while    the    flank   is    more   like    pork.     It  is 

found  in  the  raarkets  from    April   to    Sep-       %^ 

tember. 

SUCKERS. 
These  should  be  dressed,  and  allowed  to  lie  in  salted  water  for  1 


FISH  79 

or  2  hours,  or  with  salt  sprinkled  on  over  night,  to  remove  the 
earthy  taste.  Then  they  can  be  either  (1)  stewed  or  (2)  fried,  or 
(3)  broiled,  proceeding  as  previously  directed  for  cooking  fish  by 
those  methods,  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

Many  people  have  a  prejudice  against  these  fish  and  will  not 
eat  them,  but  if  properly  cooked  they  are  good,  and  as  a  food  supply 
they  are  too  much  ignored. 

SUNFISH. 

These  are  usually  fried  in  the  frying-pan  (saut6d)  in  salt  pork 
fat.  They  can  also  be  (2)  filleted  or  (3)  broiled.  Serve  with  lem- 
on juice  squeezed  on.  Proceed  as  directed  at  the  beginning  of  this 
chapter  for  cooking  fish  by  those  methods. 

SWORDFISH.      ' 

The  flesh  of  this  fish  is  usually  cut  into  steaks,  and  either  (1) 
broiled  or  (2)  boiled;  it  can  also  be  (3)  stewed  or  (4)  steamed,  pro- 
ceeding as  previously  directed  for  cooking  fish  by  those  methods,  at 
the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

The  swordfish  ranges  from  the  Atlantic  to  tlje  Mediterranean.  It  is  from  10  to 
15  feet  long,  and  a  rapid  swimmer.  The  flesh  is  rather  coarse  and  oily,  but  the 
flavor  is  good. 

THE    TAUTOa. 

This  fish  can  be  either  (1)  broiled,  or  (2)  fried,  or  (3)  filleted, 
or  (4)  boiled  or  (5)  stewed,  as  directed  for  cooking  fish  by  those 
methods  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 


The  tautog  is  found  along  the  At- 
lantic coast  of  the  U.  S.  It  appears 
from  April  to  November.  Its  average 
weight  is  about  2  lbs.,  but  it  sometimes 
weighs  10  to  15  lbs.  The  flesh  is 
white,  dry  and  delicate  in  flavor,  and 
is  much  esteemed. 

THE     TAUTOG. 

The  Thoenbaok  is  a  fish  very  abundant  along  some  parts  of  the  English  coast 
and  highly  esteemed  for  food.     It  is  not  found  in  the  United  States. 

The  Tunny  is  a  large  fish  belonging  to  the  same  family  as  the  mackerel,  and 
the  "horse  mackerel"  is  nearly  allied  to  it.  It  is  found  in  the  Mediterranean  and 
Black  seas  as  well  as  in  the  Atlantic,  and  although  esteemed  for  food  in  Europe  it 
is  seldom  or  never  eaten  in  America. 

BROOK  TROUT. 

In  dressing  trout  the  head,  tail  and  fins  should  not  be  removed, 
but  cut  the  fish  open  and  scrape  out  the  insides. 

The  sportsman's  way  of  cooking  perfectly  fresh  trout  is  to  dress 
them,  rub  table  salt  inside,  and  fry  in  the  frying=pan  in  smoking  hot 


80  *      FISH 

salt  pork  fat.  (2)  As  the  fish  comes  to  the  city  market  it  is  best  to 
broil  it  nicely  over  a  declining  fire.  Season  it  with  salt,  pepijer,  a 
little  lemon  juice  and  butter,  and  serve  on  hot  plates.  (3)  Those 
weighing  1  lb.  or  more  can  be  stufPed  and  baked  as  previously  di- 
rected for  baking  fish.  Time  to  bake  20  to  30  minutes.  This 
method  is  not  common,  but  the  fish  are  good  thus  prepared.  (4) 
When  many  are  received  and  there  is  danger  that  some  may  spoil 
they  can  be  boiled  in  water  seasoned  with  lemon  juice,  whole  peppers, 
mace  and  salt,  and  then  they  can  be  served  at  luncheon,  or  prepared 
as  previously  directed  for  any  cold  fish,  at  the  beginning  of  this 
chapter. 

Trout  au  Bleu. — Take  some  freshly  caught  trout;  clean  and  wipe 
them;  put  them  in  a  sauce=pan,  and  pour  over  them  a  pint  of  boiling 
vinegar,  which  immediately  turns  them  blue;  then  add  a  pint  of 
water  to  cover  the  fish;  add  4  bay  leaves,  salt  and  pepper,  an  onion 
stuck  with  cloves,  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  half  a  head  of  celery,  a  carrot, 
and  a  small  bunch  of  parsley;  cover  and  boil  ^  hour.  Serve  with 
fish  sauce,  or  oil  and  vinegar. 

The  trout  is  found  in  most  northern  countries  and  is  a  fresh  water  fish.  It  is 
very  voraceous  and  agil,  and  20  species  are  known  in  America.  It  is  a  delicious 
food  fish.  In  the  south  the  name  is  sometimes  erroneously  applied  to  black 
bass,  etc. 

TURBOT. 

In  choosing  turbot  the  medium  sized  are  best,  and  those  with 
yellowish=white  rather  than  bluish^white  flesh.  Soak  the  fish  in 
salted  water  1  hour  to  facilitate  removing  the  slime,  or,  if  in  a  hurry, 
rub  with  salt  and  wash  in  several  waters.  The  fins  are  not  removed 
as  the  gelatinous  parts  about  them  are  esteemed  a  delicacy,  but  they 
may  be  trimmed.  Red  spots  on  the  white  side  can  be  removed  by 
rubbing  them  with  salt  and  lemon  juice.  The  skin  becomes  gelatin- 
ous when  cooked,  and  is  highly  esteemed,  but  is  rather  indigestible. 
Unlike  most  fish  it  is  better  if  kept  for  a  day  or  two.  If  boiled,  a 
gash  through  the  skin  down  the  back  will  keep  the  skin  on  the  belly 
from  cracking  when  it  begins  to  swell  in  cooking. 

It  is  often  boiled.  Dress  and  prepare  it  as  above  and  then  boil 
as  previously  directed  for  boiling  fish.  Time  to  boil  15  to  20  min- 
utes for  small  fish,  and  20  to  30  for  larger  ones.  Then  garnish  and 
serve  with  a  good  fish  sauce.  It  can  also  be  (2)  stuflPed  and  baked, 
or  (3)  fried,  or  (4)  filleted,  proceeding  as  directed  for  cooking  fish 
by  those  methods. 

Cold  remnants  of  the  fish  are  nice  prepared  by  any  of  the  recipes 
given  previously  for  cooking  cold  fish,  at  the  beginning  of  this 
chapter. 


FISH 


81 


FRIED  TURBOT.— Cut  some 
neat  pieces,  steep  tliem  in  a 
marinade  of  lemon  juice,  oil, 
pepper  and  salt,  for  1  or  2 
hours,  then  dip  them  in 
batter  and  fry  them  a  golden 
brown  in  plenty  of  hot  fat. 


The  turbot  is  found  on  the 
northern  Atlantic  coast  of  the  U. 
S.  It  is  a  flat  fish  like  the  flounder 
and  halibut,  having  the  upper  side 
dark  and  the  underside  light.  It 
attains  a  weight  of  2  to  20  lbs. 
The  flesh  is  highly  esteemed  for 
food. 

The  Tenoh  is  a  fish  belonging 
to  the  same  family  as  the  carp.  It 
is  found  in  Europe  and  Asia,  but  not  in  the  U.  S. 


remnants   of  boiled   turbot   into 


It  is  highly  esteemed  for  food 

WHITEPISH. 

This  fish  is  splendid  broiled.  Cut  it  in  two  lengthwise,  take  out 
the  backbone,  cut  each  half  in  tv/o,  rub  on  butter  or  salad  oil,  and 
broil  nicely  over  a  moderate  fire.  Time  about  10  minutes.  Serve 
on  a  hot  dish  with  butter  spread  on,  salt  and  pepper  added,  and 
lemon  juice  sqeezed  over.  Garnish  to  taste.  It  is  also  nice  (2) 
boiled,  or  (3)  filleted,  proceeding  as  directed  for  cooking  fish  by 
those  methods  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

Cold  Remnants  can  be  prepared  by  any  of  the  recipes  given  for 
utilized  cold  fish,  given  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

The  whitefish  belongs  to  the  same  family  as  the  salmon  and  trout.  It  is 
found  in  the  northern  parts  of  America.  It  sometimes  attains  a  weight  of  10  lbs. 
and  a  length  of  2  feet  or  more.  The  flesh  is  a  bluish  white,  turning  pure  white 
when  boiled.     It  is  one  of  the  best  of  the  summer  fishes. 

WHITING. 

This  fish  is  excellent  fried  in  a  frying-pan  with  salt  pork  fat  or 
butter.  It  can  also  be  (2)  broiled  or  (3)  filleted  as  directed  for 
cooking  fish  by  those  methods  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter. 

The  whiting  is  found  along  the  southern  Atlantic  coast  of  the  JJ.  S.  Its 
flesh  is  sweet  and  hard,  but  soon  looses  its  delicate  flavor. 

WEAKFISH. 

Same  as  squeteague,  which  see. 

WHITEBAIT. 

The  whitebait  is  the  name  given  in  England  to  young  herring 
not  over  (j  iiiolies  long.     They  are  usually  rolled  in  flour  and  iiied  in 

deo[),  fjMu. ]•::!::.;■  hot  fit.     Tiny  aio  coneiJ.cred  very  choice.     They  ap- 


pear  aitor  Ap 


ilaud 


sri miner  mun 


ths. 


SHELL=FISH. 

NDER  the  head  of  shell=fish  we  include  oysters,  clams,  crabs, 
lobsters,  shrimps,  prawns,  mussels,  crayfish,  scollops,  and 
terrapin  or  turtle. 

Of  the  shell=fish,  oysters  are  the  most  valuable,  not  only 
for  their  flavor,  but  for  the  ease  with  which  they  can  be  taken  by 
invalids,  and  for  the  nutritious  qualities  they  possess.  Lobsters  and 
clams  are  more  difficult  of  digestion,  but  are  much  liked  by  many 
persons.  Lobsters  and  clams  should  be  perfectly  fresh,  as  many 
cases  of  illness  have  been  caused  by  eating  them  after  decomposition 
has  begun.  All  shell=fish  should  be  kept  near  ice  both  before  and 
after  being  cooked,  if  there  is  a  remainder  after  the  meals,  except  in 
cold  and  freezing  weather. 

CLAMS. 

Clams  are  good  during  the  months  when  oysters  are  not  in  sea- 
son— those  without  an  "  r,"  May  to  August.  If  only  eaten  when 
fresh,  they  are  wholesome. 

CLAMS  AU  QRATIN— Chop  all  the  hard  part  of  uncooked 
clams;  to  a  cup  of  clams  add  a  cup  of  fine  cracker  or  bread  crumbs, 
reserving  a  little  for  the  top  of  the  mixture  before  it  is  placed  in  the 
oven;  add  also  to  the  chopped  clams  a  dessertspoon  of  chopped  onion, 
a  small  teaspoon  of  marjoram  and  sage,  a  little  chopped  celery,  some 
cayenne  and  salt;  moisten  all  with  the  broth  of  the  clams;  fill  but- 
tered shells  with  the  mixture,  sprinkle  crumbs  over  the  top,  with 
some  bits  of  butter,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  for  20  minutes;  garnish 
with  parsley  when  served. 

CLAM  CHOWDER.— Take  1  quart  of  clams  and  chop  them  fine; 
6  large  fresh  crackers,  1  onion,  sliced,  6  potatoes,  cut  in  dice.  In  an 
iron  pot  fry  2  slices  of  salt  pork;  take  it  out  soon,  leaving  the  fat  in 
the  pot;  put  in  2  or  3  slices  of  onion,  then  a  layer  o|  potatoes,  then  a 
layer  of  the  chopped  clams,  sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  pepper;  then 
a  layer  of  the  onion,  then  the  bits  of  fried  pork,  cut  into  small  pieces; 
add  a  layer  of  broken  crackers;  put  in  the  remainder  in  the  same 
way;  then  add  the  clam  liquor,  and  enough  water  to  more  than  cover 
them.  Cook  20  minutes,  or  until  the  potatoes  are  done;  add  2  cups 
hot  milk  just  before  serving.     Sufficient  for  8  persons. 


SHELL^FISH  83 

ESCALLOPED  CLAMS — Scald  the  clams,  remove  the  hard  part 
and  chop  the  rest.  Make  a  soup  of  the  liquor,  with  enough  water 
added  to  make  it  fresh  enough;  thicken  it  and  make  suflSiciently  rich 
with  butter.  Butter  a  scalloped  dish,  strew  the  bottom  with  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs,  moisten  them  with  the  soup,  then  spread  a  layer  of 
clams  seasoned  with  pepper,  and  continue  alternately  till  the  dish  is 
full,  the  last  layer  being  crumbs  moistened  with  soup.  Bake  ^  hour, 
and  serve  at  once. 

ROAST  CLAMS. — Scrub  the  shells,  wash  well,  drain,  and  put 
them  in  a  dripping-pan.  Set  them  in  a  hot  oven  and  as  soon  as 
the  shells  open  serve  them  on  the  half  shell,  or  in  the  whole  shell, 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  slices  of  lemon.  Serve  toasted  brown  bread 
with  them.     Time  to  roast  about  10  or  12  minutes. 

STEWED  CLAMS — Take  2  cups  milk,  add  1  teaspoon  butter 
and  a  little  white  pepper  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Then  add  the  clams, 
freshly  opened,  bring  them  to  a  boil,  let  simmer  4  or  5  minutes  and 
serve.     They  will  be  tough  and  indigestible  if  boiled  long. 

CLAMS  ON  TOAST.— Take  the  clams  out  of  the  shell  and  cut 
their  heads  ofp;  boil  them  in  their  own  liquor;  skim  it  well,  and  add 
as  much  water  or  milk  as  there  is  liquor;  thicken  with  flour  or  pow- 
dered rice  to  the  consistency  of  cream ;  add  butter,  and  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Have  some  thin  slices  of  buttered  toast  prepared,  pour 
on  enough  of  the  liquor  to  soften  the  toast  and  lay  3  or  4  clams  on 
each  slice.  Serve  at  once,  on  hot  plates.  Garnish  with  parsley.  A 
teacup  of  hot  water  will  "start  the  steam"  for  |  peck  of  clams;  the 
amount  of  liquor  which  each  shell  contains  will  surprise  the  novice. 
As  few  like  the  liquor  full  strength,  it  is  better  to  dilute  it  one- 
half  as  above  directed, 

CKABS. 

A  crab  of  the  medium  size  is  the  best,  and  the  crab,  like  the 
lobster,  should  be  judged  by  its  weight.  It  should  be  heavy  for 
its  size,  for  if  light,  it  is  watery.  They  are  called  •'  soft  shell  crabs  ' 
when  the  new  shell  is  forming,  as  they  shed  their  shell  annually. 
They  are  a  similar  shell=fish  to  lobster,  and  are  prepared  in  the  same 
ways  for  the  table, 

BOILED  HARD  SHELL  CRABS — Put  them  into  slightly  salt- 
ed boiling  water,  and  boil  12  to  15  minutes.  Drain,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  with  catsup  or  lemon  juice, 

BROWNED  CRABS.-Take  the  great  shell,  clean  and  butter  ii; 
mince  all  the  lish,  shred  some  parsley,   umshvoonis,   trufties,   and  a 


84  SHELL  FISH 

small  onion.  Brown  these  in  a  sauce-pan  with  a  very  little  butter; 
put  in  the  minced  crab  with  the  inside  bruised,  and  some  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt;  stir  this  about,  shake  in  some  flour,  and  add  a  little 
coral.  Let  this  simmer  up,  fill  up  the  shell,  strew  over  crumbs  of 
bread  with  a  small  piece  of  butter;  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

DEVILED  CRABS.— Boil  the  crabs,  take  out  the  meat  and  chop 
it  fine;  then  add  |  as  much  bread  crumbs,  cream  or  a  cream  sauce, 
salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  mustard  and  lemon  juice.  Clean  the  shells, 
fill  them  with  the  mixture,  dust  them  with  cracker  crumbs,  and  bake 
them  brown  in  a  quick  oven.  Deviled  crabs  should  always  be  sea- 
soned highly. 

ESCALLOPED  CRABS.— Take  the  meat  of  boiled  crabs,  chop  it 
fine;  add  cream  or  cream  sauce,  chopped  hard=boiled  egg,  pepper 
and  salt  to  season,  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Clean  the  shells,  put  in 
the  mixture,  dust  on  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

FRIED  SOFT  SHELL  CRABS.— Kemove  the  sand  bags,  etc., 
wash  and  dry  them ;  sprinkle  on  pepper  and  salt,  roll  them  in  flour, 
then  in  egg,  then  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

KROMESKIES  OF  CRABS — Boil  for  40  minutes,  1  or  more 
crabs;  when  cool,  pick  them  out  in  as  large  pieces  as  possible. 
Mash  fine  the  hard-boiled  yolks  of  4  eggs,  add  them  to  the  crabs, 
with  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  whole  egg  well  beaten,  and  a 
palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  cayenne.  Mix 
carefully,  and  form  into  tiny  rolls;  wrap  each  in  a 
very  thin  slice  of  bacon,  dip  it  in  fritter  batter, 
and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat.  Serve  on  a  napkin; 
garnish  with  cress. 

The  flesh  belonging  to  the  claws  of  the  crab  Is  far  less 
likely  to  disagree  with  the  stomach  than  the  soft  part  con- 
tained within  the  shell.     Crabs  are  diflScult  of  digestion,  and   so   not  suitable   for 
invalids  or  dyspeptics. 

CKAY^FISH,  PKAWNS  AND  SHRIMPS. 

These  are  much  like  lobsters,  only  smaller,  and  they  are  to  be 
found  in  x)rovision  stores  in  hermetically  sealed  cans,  already  cooked, 
and  the  meats  picked  from  the  shells.  They  are  used  whole  and 
boiled  for  garnishing  boiled  fowls  and  all  kinds  of  boiled  fish.  They 
are  boiled  in  the  same  manner  as  lobsters,  but  for  a  much  shorter 
time,  from  5  to  15  minutes  being  the  rule.  After  boiling,  they  may 
be  broken  in  pieces,  shells  and  all  together,  and  form  a  foundation 
for  a  delicious  soup,  with  any  additions  preferred. 


SHELL^FISH 


85 


These  shell-fish  make  ornamental  side  dishes,  served  whole  and 
garnished  with  parsley  and  nasturtiums. 

BUTTERED  SHRIMPS  OR  PRAWNS.— Pick  1  pint  of  shrimps 
or  prawns,  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  f  pint  of  bouillon;  add  a 
thickening  of  butter  and  flour;  season  to  taste  with  salt,  cayenne  and 
nutmeg,  and  simmer  gently  for  8  minutes.  Serve  on  a  dish  gar- 
nished wnth  fried  bread  or  toasted  sippets.  Cream  sauce  may  be 
substituted  for  the  gravy. 

CURRIED    CRAY=FISH,    PRAWNS    AND    SHRIMPS.— For    a 

can  of  these  shelhfish,  melt  a  small  cup  of  butter  in  a  pan;  add  a 
saltspoon  of  curry=powder,  a  sour  apple  chopped  finely,  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  and  ^  pint  of  hot  water;  a  small  onion  may  be  added  if  liked. 
When  all  the  ingredients  are  well  scalded  together,  add  a  tablespoon 
of  corn-starch  wet  with  a  little  water,  and  stir  until  it  thickens;  add 
the  can  of  shellfish  to  the  curry  sauce.  Let  it  get  quite  hot — do  not 
boil — then  serve. 

POTTED  CRAY=FISH,  PRAWNS  OR  SHRIMPS — Pick  the 
meat  from  50  cray*fish  and  pound  it  to  a  j)aste  in  a  mortar;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg.  The  butter  must  be  slightly  softened,  but  not  melted,  and  the 
ingredients  should  be  thoroughly  mixed.  Put  it  in  small  earthen 
pots,  pack  tightly,  and 
cover  with  salad  oil; 
then  .cover  in  such  a 
way  as  to  entirely  ex- 
clude the  air.  The 
earthen  pot  can  be  had 
of  apothecaries,  with  the 
covers,  the  potted  cray= 
fish  should  be  kept  in  a 
cool,  dry,  dark  place. 

Prawns  and  shrimps  may  be  potted  in 
the  same  manner. 

SHBIMP. 

Shrimps    and    jjrawns,   although    not    easy    of 
digestion  nor  adapted  to  a  weak  stomach,  are  less  likely  to  disagree  than  crabs  or 
lobsters. 

LOBSTERS. 

The  largest  lobsters  are  not  as  good  as  those  of  a  medium  size, 
and  those  full  of  eggs  are  inferior.  Lobsters  should  be  put  in  cold 
water  to  boil,  for  they  are  dead  as  soon  as  the  water  becomes  warm, 
and  suffer  less  than  when  plunged  into  boiling  water;  they  are  done 


86  SHELL  FISH 

when  they  have  boiled  about  20  minutes.  Lobsters  are  not  poison- 
ous if  perfectly  fresh;  there  is  no  poison  "lady"'  in  the  lobster.  The 
stomach  near  the  head  is,  of  course,  taken  out,  and  also  the  "  string '' 
or  intestine  which  goes  through  the  lobster;  all  the  rest  is  edible. 
The  green  tomally  or  liver  can  be  eaten,  and  do  not  waste  the  sweet 
meat  between  the  bones  of  the  body.  Lobsters  that  were  alive  when 
put  into  the  water  to  boil,  will  have  the  tail  curled  up,  while  one  that 
was  dead  will  have  the  tail  extended.  Long  or  slow  cooking  will 
toughen  lobsters  and  make  them  indigestible.  Brushing  the  large 
shells  on  the  outside  with  olive  oil,  is  thought  to  preserve  the  bright 
red  color.  Cayenne  pepper,  mustard,  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  should 
be  eaten  with  lobsters;  they  are  digested  with  difficulty. 

To  kill  a  lobster  quickly  and  easily,  cut  the  si)inal  cord  by  pushing  a 
long,  narroW'bladed  knife  into  the  tail,  slanting  the  blade  downward, 
and  inserting  it  at  the  third  joint,  counting  from  the  end. 

Lobster  Coral  can  be  kept  a  long  time  if  put  in  a  jar  or  bottle  and 
covered  with  vinegar.  To  use,  soak  about  an  hour  in  water,  and 
then  in  milk  for  the  same  time;  wipe  dry,  and  use  like  fresh  coral. 
During  the  season  it  is  well  to  preserve  surplus  coral  in  this  way,  for 
coloring  soups,  etc. 

LOBSTERS  AU  QRATIN — Split  the  tail  and  body  of  the  lob- 
ster, removing  the  fish  and  taking  care  not  to  break  the  shells;  mince 
the  fish,  and  put  all  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  good  stock,  and  pep- 
per and  salt;  mix  it  well,  fill  the  shells  with  the  mixture,  cover  them 
well  with  bread  crumbs,  brush  over  with  clarified  butter,  and  brown 
it  in  a  hot  oven. 

BROILED  LOBSTER.— After  being  boiled,  a  lobster  may  be 
broiled  as  follows:  Take  the  claws  off  and  crack  them,  split  the  body 
and  tail  in  two,  season  well  with  pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne,  and  broil. 
Serve  with  plain  butter,  or  with  a  little  heated  catsui^,  dashed  with 
Worcestershire  sauce. 

BUTTERED  LOBSTER — A  buttered  lobster  should  be  first 
boiled  and  broken  up.  Take  out  all  the  meat,  cut  it  small  and  put  it 
in  a  stew=pan  with  plenty  of  butter,  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar, 
and  stir  till  it  is  hot.  If  a  handsome  dish  of  2  or  3  lobsters  be  de- 
sired, the  tails  should  be  halved  and  broiled,  and  put  round  the  dish 
with  the  minced  lobster  in  the  middle. 

LOBSTER  CANAPES— For  this,  there  must  be  the  meat  of  a 
medium  sized  lobster,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  mingled  with  the 
green  fat;  pour  over  it  a  very  little  salad  oil  and  vinegar,  just  enough 


SHELL  FISH  87 

to  moisten  it  well,  and  let  it  stand  10  or  15  minutes.  Cut  thin  slices 
of  bread  for  the  croutons,  trim  off  the  crust  to  make  them  square,  or 
cut  them  with  fancy^shaped  cutters,  and  fry  them  a  delicate  brown, 
on  a  griddle  well  buttered;  spread  the  croutons  on  a  platter  gar- 
nished with  parsley;  on  the  croutons  spread  the  lobster,  and  on  the 
lobster  may  be  placed  thin  slices  of  lemon,  or  sprinkle  them  well 
with  capers. 

LOBSTER  CREAMED. — Chop  finely  a  medium=sized  lobster  and 
pour  over  it  a  pint  of  cream;  put  in  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  and  3 
eggs  well  beaten,  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  butter  a  mold,  fill  in 
the  mixture,  invert  a  plate  over  the  top,  and  steam  for  an  hour. 
Serve  with  any  nice  fish  sauce. 

LOBSTER  CURRY.— Put  |  cup  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and 
when  melted,  stir  into  it  2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  1  heaping  salt- 
spoon  of  curry  powder;  stir  constantly  until  it  is  brown;  then  gradu- 
ally add  ^  pint  of  hot  water,  stirring  rapidly  until  it  thickens;  season 
with  salt  to  taste.  Chop  coarsely  the  meat  and  fat  of  a  medium^sized 
lobster,  and  add  it  to  the  curry  sauce;  simmer  5  or  6  minutes,  or  un- 
til it  is  quite  hot;  if  onion  is  liked,  rub  the  hot  platter  with  a  raw  on- 
ion; place  on  the  platter  slices  of  nicely- toasted  bread,  and  pour  the 
curried  lobster  over  the  toast.     Serve  hot. 

DEVILED  LOBSTER.— Cut  lobster  fine,  and  season  it  highly 
with  salt,  cayenne,  mustard,  chopped  parsley,  onion  juice,  if  desired, 
and  some  pungent  sauce,  like  Worcestershire;  place  the  mixture  in 
the  lobster  shell,  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the  top,  with  bits  of 
butter,  and  bake  till  brown  on  top.     Eat  hot  or  cold. 

LOBSTER  PATTIES — Chop  a  medium=sized  lobster  very  finely, 
and  mix  with  it  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  little  salt,  and  white  pepper, 
and  salad  oil  enough  to  moisten  it,  if  not  moist  enough;  line  patty^ 
pans  with  puff  paste  and  put  into  each  a  small  piece  of  bread;  put  on 
a  top  crust  of  paste,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake;  when 
done,  take  off  the  top  crust,  remove  the  bread,  fill  the  patties  with 
minced  lobster  (after  stirring  it  over  the  fire  with  the  seasoning 
for  2  or  3  minutes) ;  then  replace  the  top  crusts. 

STEWED    LOBSTER.— Cut  the  lobster  small  and  put  it  in  a 

stew=^pan,  and  add  just  a  little  water,  milk  or  cream,  the  latter  being 
best,  although  the  first  will  answer;  let  it  boil  up,  add  a  teaspoon  of 
butter,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  season,  and  serve  hot,  either  on  toast 
or  plain. 


88  SHELL  FISH 

The  flesh  found  in  the  claws  of  the  lobster  is  more  delicate  and  digestible  than 
that  found  in  the  tail,  but  all  lobstev  meat  is  difficult  of  digestion  and  not  suited  to 
invalids  or  dyspeptics. 

MUSSELS. 

These  cheap  and  excellent  shellfish  are  sometimes  called  the 
poor  man's  oyster.  They  are  sometimes  eaten  raw,  but  it  is  better  to 
cook  them.  They  can  be  fried,  broiled,  stewed,  or  pickled,  being  us- 
ually prepared  for  the  market  by  pickling.  The  "  moss,"  or  byssus, 
which  serves  to  attach  them  to  rocks,  etc.,  is  usually  removed,  be- 
ing considered  poisonous,  although  there  is  no  proof  of  that.  Still, 
it  is  better  to  remove  it  after  being  boiled  and  before  serving  them. 

BOILED  MUSSELS — Clean  the  shells  and  put  them  in  a  kettle 
vv'ith  water  slightly  salted  and  containing  a  little  vinegar;  heat  until 
the  shells  open,  and  they  will  be  done.  Remove  them  from  the 
shells,  trim  off  the  "moss,"  strain  the  liquor,  add  a  little  flour,  the 
yolks  of  1  or  2  eggs,  pour  over  the  mussels  and  serve  at  once.  Choi?- 
ped  parsley  may  be  added  if  desired. 

The  mussel  more  often  exerts  a  deleterious  effect  than  any  other  shell=fish.  It 
often  has  a  poisonous  effect,  the  reason  for  which  is  not  clearly  understood. 

OYSTEES. 

Oysters  are  only  good  during  the  months  containing  an  "r" 
(that  is,  from  September  to  April)  as  their  multiplying  season  is 
during  the  warm  weather,  and  at  that  time  they  are  soft  and  tasteless. 
They  are  not  easily  kept  in  warm  weather,  being  a  fish  that  quickly 
spoils.  Canned  oysters  can  be  used  in  hot  weather  if  liked,  for  they 
are  only  canned  in  their  season.  In  cooking  oysters,  great  care 
should  be  taken  that  they  may  not  be  cooked  too  long,  as  that  pro- 
cess hardens  them.  They  are  easily  digested  and  are  commonly 
given  to  invalids,  although  cooking  renders  them  a  little  less  digesti- 
ble; if  too  much  cooked,  they  are  tough  and  leathery.  Always  buy 
the  "solid"  oysters,  or  those  containing  very  little  juice,  as  they  are 
sometimes  watered  and  it  is  more  economical  to  water  them  yourself 
The  smallest  oysters  are  used  for  stews  and  escallops,  and  are  sold  by 
measure,  as  are  the  "straits,"  that  is,  the  large  and  small  mixed. 
The  largest  oysters  are  usually  sold  by  the  dozen  for  broiling  and 
frying;  they  are  called  "counts,"  and  "selects." 

Never  salt  oysters  until  just  before  serving,  as  cooking  them 
with  salt  hardens  them.  They  should  be  served  at  once  after  being 
cooked.  Be  sure  that  all  bits  of  shell  are  removed  before  cooking. 
Do  not  open  them  until  just  before  using  if  wanted  raw;  if  to  be 
cooked,  do  not  keep  them  long  after  being  opened.  As  the  crabs  are 
usually  regarded  as  a  delicacy,  save  any  which  are  found  among  the 


SHELL^FISH  89 

oysters.     As  oysters  in  cooking  produce  liquor  enough  of  tlieir  own, 
there  is  less  need  of  saving  their  liquor. 

BROILED  OYSTERS.— Take  as  many  large  oysters  as  are 
needed,  dry  them  in  a  towel,  rub  butter  on  the  bars  of  a  wire  grid- 
iron, brush  a  little  over  the  oysters,  and  broil  over  a  clear  jBre.  If 
the  wires  of  the  gridiron  are  close  together,  smaller  ones  can  be 
broiled.  Arrange  them  on  toast,  season  and  serve.  Or  they  can  be 
dipped  in  melted  butter,  then  rolled  in  crumbs  which  are  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  broiled  until  the  juice  flows;  this  saves  the 
juice  more  and  many  people  prefer  it. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS.— Cook  3  tablespoons  of  flour  and  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  together  until  they  bubble;  add  1  cup  of  milk  and  1 
cup  of  oyster  liquor,  and  stir  until  you  have  a  thick  sauce;  into  this 
drop  1  quart  of  oysters  freed  from  their  liquor.  Have  ready  an  egg 
beaten  light  in  a  cup,  mix  some  of  the  hot  sauce  with  it,  turn  all 
back  into  the  saucepan,  stir  1  minute  (not  longer)  and  take  from  the 
fire.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Serve 
on  toast,  or  put  the  creamed  oysters  into  buttered  scallop=shells; 
sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 
Eat  hot. 

DEVILED  OYSTERS — Drain  the  oysters  and  dry  in  a  clean 
towel;  then  put  them  in  a  dish,  and  cover  with  a  mixture  of  melted 
butter  and  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  adding  a  little  pepper  sauce  or 
cayenne  pepper  if  desired;  let  them  soak  5  or  10  minutes  and  take 
them  out;  dip  them  in  fine  cracker  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  and 
again  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS.— Koll  1  quart  of  crackers  fine  with 
the  rolling  pin.  Grease  the  baking  dish  as  you  would  before  baking  a 
cake  in  it.  Put  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  in  the  dish;  drain  the  liq- 
uor from  the  oysters  and  add  twice  the  quantity  of  milk  to  it;  mois- 
ten the  crumbs  with  some  of  this,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  oysters  with 
a  seasoning  of  salt,  x^epper  and  bits  of  butter.  Put  in  the  layers  of 
crumbs  alternately  with  the  oysters  in  this  way  until  all  are  in,  with 
a  layer  of  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Beat  1  egg  and  add  to 
it  the  remainder  of  the  milk  and  oyster  liquor,  or  if  none  remains, 
add  a  little  milk  to  the  egg  and  pour  it  over  all.  Put  a  cover  over 
it  and  bake  -^  hour;  then  remove  the  cover  and  bake  ^  hour  longer 

FRIED  OYSTERS — Take  large  sized  oysters,  parboil  slightly, 
drain,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt  and  cool  20  minutes.  Then 
roll  each  one  separately  in  bread  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  eggs  and 


90  V  SHELLFISH 

milk  mixed,  then  again  season,  and  again  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Put 
into  smoking  hot  fat  and  fry  1  minute;  take  out,  lay  on  paper  to  ab- 
sorb surplus  grease,  garnish  and  serve. 

They  can  also  be  fried  in  the  frying-pan.  Prepare  as  above,  roll 
in  cracker  crumbs  only,  and  fry  on  each  side  until  brown,  using  but- 
ter for  the  fat. 

FRICASSEE  OF  OYSTERS — Put  about  75  oysters  on  the  fire  in 
their  liquor  and  an  equal  quantity  of  chicken  broth ;  add  the  juice  of 
1  lemon,  and  when  all  comes  to  a  boil,  remove  from  the  fire;  in  an- 
other steW'pan  put  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  1^  tablespoons  of  flour; 
stir  them  together  carefully  so  as  not  to  color;  add,  slowly,  the  liquor 
and  oysters  from  the  other  stew-pan,  then  the  beaten  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  1  saltspoon  of  white  pepper  and  salt  mixed,  1  tablespoon  of 
chopioed  parsley;  let  the  mixture  become  thoroughly  hot,  but  do  not 
boil;  serve  as  soon  as  x)ossible. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS.— Have  ready  a  batter  made  as  follows: 
Dissolve  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  'n  4  tablespoons  of  water  or 
oyster  liquor,  and  stir  to  this  1-|  tablespoons  of  sifted  flour;  mix  well 
over  the  fire.  Take  it  off  and  mix  in,  one  after  the  other,  3  eggs,  and 
a  little  salt.  Beard  and  scald  the  oysters,  dip  each  into  the  batter, 
fry  lightly  in  smoking  hot  fat,  and  serve. 

OYSTERS  ON  THE  HALF   SHELL Do  not  open  them  until 

just  before  they  are  served,  and  then  leave  each  one  in  half  the  shell. 
Allow  about  h  doz.  large  oysters  for  each  guest.  Put  them  on  a  din- 
ner plate,  and  in  the  center  of  the  dish  put  1  or  2  slices  of  lemon  cut 
thin. 

OYSTERS  AND  MACARONI — Take  some  macaroni,  boil  until 
soft,  put  a  layer  into  a  baking  dish,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  oysters; 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  so  on  with  alternate  layers 
of  macaroni  and  oysters,  until  the  dish  is  full.  Then  bake  till 
brown,  and  serve. 

OYSTER  OMELET.— Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  6  eggs  separ- 
ately; to  the  yolks  add  ^  cup  of  rich  milk  or  thin  cream,  a  little  salt, 
and  12  oysters,  chopped  fine.  Put  butter  in  your  frying=pan,  as  for 
an  ordinary  omelet,  and  allow  it  to  heat  while  you  are  mixing  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  with  the  rest  of  the  ingredients.  Mix  the  whole 
lightly  and  turn  into  the  pan.  Shake  to  prevent  burning,  and  as 
soon  as  the  omelet  is  set,  or  begins  to  be  firm,  turn  one  half  over  the 
other  half  quickly,  slip  on  to  a  hot  platter  and  serve  at  once.  Good, 
but  not  as  economical  as  many  dishes. 


SHELL^FISH  91 

PANNED  OYSTERS — Kemove  the  crust  from  thin  slices  of 
stale  bread,  toast  it,  cut  it  in  pieces,  and  fit  them  into  muflSn  or 
patty=pan8;  moisten  with  oyster  liquor;  put  oysters  on  the  toast, 
sprinkle  with  pepper,  and  put  a  bit  of  butter  on  each  one;  cover  with 
a  dripping-pan,  or  any  convenient  cover  to  prevent  the  escape  of 
steam,  and  cook  in  a  quick  oven;  they  will  be  done  when  the  oysters 
curl  (in  6  or  8  minutes).     Then  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve  hot. 

OYSTER  PATTIES — Make  a  rich  puff  paste  and  bake  it  in 
earthen  sauce=dishes.  Wash  nice  fresh  oysters  in  warm,  salted 
water;  drain  and  put  in  a  sauce=pan,  with  a  piece  of  butter,  a  little 
salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  if  liked.  Cook  them  only  until  they  are 
plump,  stirring  with  a  silver  fork  while  plumping;  when  cold,  fill  the 
crusts  and  send  to  the  table.  If  liked  hot,  the  crusts  can  be  filled, 
before  baking,  with  the  plumped  oysters,  and  sent  from  the  oven  to 
the  table. 

OYSTER  PIE — Line  a  deep  pie-dish  with  puff  paste;  dredge 
with  flour;  pour  in  1  pint  of  oysters,  season  with  butter,  salt,  pepper, 
and  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  the  oysters;  pour  on  some  oyster  liquor 
and  cover  with  a  crust,  with  a  hole  in  the  top  for  steam  to  escape. 
Bake  30  minutes. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS.— Put  100  oysters  in  a  sauce^pan,  and  let 
them  simmer  gently  in  their  own  liquor  for  about  10  minutes;  take 
them  out  one  by  one,  put  in  jars,  and  when  cold,  cover  with  a  pickle 
made  as  follows:  Measure  the  oyster  liquor  and  add  to  it  the  same 
amount  of  vinegar,  and  for  each  cup  of  vinegar,  add  1  blade  of 
pounded  mace,  12  cloves,  and  a  strip  of  lemon  peel;  boil  5  minutes, 
and  when  cold,  pour  it  over  the  oysters  and  cover  closely. 

PIGS  IN  BLANKETS. — Choose  large  oysters,  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt;  wrap  each  one  in  a  slice  of  bacon  cut  very  thin,  and 
fasten  with  a  wooden  toothpick.  Cook  in  a  hot  frying=pan  just  long 
enough  to  crisp  the  bacon.  Have  small  pieces  of  toast  ready,  put 
each  "pig"  on  one,  without  removing  the  skewer;  serve  at  once. 

RAW  OYSTERS — In  cold  weather  these  are  much  better  to  lie 
a  short  time  in  warm  salted  water;  this  takes  the  chill  from  the  juice 
of  the  oyster,  and  they  are  more  agreeable  than  when  very  cold,  as 
they  will  be  in  winter.  They  may  be  eaten  with  just  salt,  pepper, 
and  vinegar,  but  some  persons  like  them  served  with  one  of  the  ap- 
petizing sauces.  Nice  bread  and  butter  sandwiches  are  good  with 
raw  oysters. 

At  large  dinners  where  raw  oysters   are  served,  they  are  some- 


92  SHELLFISH 

times  brought  to  each  individual  place  before  the  company  is  seated. 
It  is  a  pleasant  and  homelike  way  for  the  host  to  serve  them  from  a 
platter  before  him,  on  small  dessert^plates.  Drain  the  oysters  well, 
arrange  them  on  a  platter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  slice 
lemon  over  them.  Thin  slices  of  buttered  brown  bread  may  be 
served  with  the  oysters.  Let  them  stand  in  the  ice  chest  ^  hour 
before  serving. 

STEAMED  OYSTERS — Drain  them,  lay  on  a  plate  and  set  in 
the  steamer,  and  steam  for  about  10  minutes  till  they  look  white  and 
plump.  Use  the  liquid  for  a  dressing;  beat  it,  mix  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  cream,  and  thicken  it  with  a  little  corn=starch. 

OYSTER  STEW — Put  the  liquor  from  1  pint  of  oysters  with  1 
cup  of  sweet  milk  in  a  kettle;  let  it  just  boil,  add  the  oysters  and  let 
it  boil  up  once;  then  season  with  jDepper,  salt,  and  butter,  with  a  few 
crackers  toasted  and  broken  in  jjieces.  Never  salt  oysters  until  just 
before  removing  from  the  fire,  or  they  will  shrivel  and  harden. 

SMOTHERED  OYSTERS — Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg  into  a  sauce^pan,  with  a  little  salt,  white  pepper  and  cayenne. 
Have  ready  a  pint  of  oysters,  which  have  been  washed  in  warm  water 
slightly  salted,  and  thoroughly  drained  and  dried  on  a  napkin;  when 
the  butter  is  hot,  put  in  the  oysters  and  cook  them  until  they  are 
plump  (2  or  3  minutes);  stir  them  carefully  all  the  time  with  a  silver 
fork  to  prevent  them  from  sticking  to  the  sauce^pan.  Serve  on 
toasted  crackers. 

OYSTER  TOAST — Chop  fine  1^  dozen  good  large  oysters,  and 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Beat  together  ^  cup 
of  cream  and  yolks  of  2  eggs;  heat  the  oysters  till  they  simmer,  stir 
in  the  egg  and  cream,  and  pour  it  on  prepared  slices  of  buttered 
toast. 

OYSTERS  UNSHELLED— Take  oysters  in  the  shell;  wash  and 
scrub  the  shell  till  perfectly  clean;  then,  to  keep  in  the  juice,  set 
them  with  the  round  shell  down.  Either  steam  them  in  the  steamer 
10  to  20  minutes,  or  roast  them  over  hot  coals  on  a  gridiron,  or  put 
them  in  the  dripping-pan  on  top  of  the  stove,  or  in  the  hot  oven. 
They  will  be  done  when  the  shells  open.  Then  take  ofip  the  flat  top 
shell,  and  season  each  one  with  a  little  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  lem- 
on juice.  Serve  hot.  This  method  retains  the  natural  flavor  of  the 
oyster  better  than  any  other. 

Oysters  are  wholesome  and  nutritious,  but  are  more  digestible  when  raw  than 
when  cooked,  as  cooking  usually  hardens  and  toughens  them. 


SHELLFISH  93 

SCALLOPS. 

This  fish  somewhat  resembles  the  oyster  in 
appearance  and  the  crab  in  taste.  It  is  com- 
'paratively  little  known,  although  when  fresh 
and  well  cooked  it  is  very  delicious.  It  is  found 
in  all  parts  of  the  world,  and  in  ancient  times 
the  shells  were  used  extensively  in  cookery,  giv-  .  . 

ing  us  our  prefix  of  "scalloped."     They  are  in  1;^!^::^!^^ 

season  in  fall  and  winter.    The  muscle  by  which  the  scallop. 

it  opens  and  closes  its  shell   is  the  only  part  eaten.     They  can  be 
stewed  like  oysters,  or  fry  them,  which  is  a  better  way. 

FRIED  SCALLOPS.— Kinse  them  in  cold  water  slightly  salted, 
and  dry  in  a  napkin;  dip  them  in  cracker  dust  seasoned  with  pepper 
and  salt,  then  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  They 
are  sometimes  dredged  with  flour  and  fried  in  a  frying-pan  with  pork 
fat,  and  some  people  prefer  them  that  way. 

TEKRAPIN  OR  TURTLE. 

To  dress  terrapin,  cut  off  the  head  and  bleed  thoroughly,  then 
soak  in  cold  water  for  an  hour.  Next  boil  10  or  15  minutes,  take  it 
out  into  cold  water  and  with  a  coarse  cloth  rub  off  all  the  black  skin. 
Have  another  water  heating  in  the  kettle,  and  when  the  turtle  is 
cleaned,  boil  until  the  shell  loosens;  the  time  will  vary  from  ^  hour 
to  2  hours,  according  to  the  age  of  the  terrapin.  When  done,  put  in 
cold  water  again,  take  off  the  under  shell  and  carefully  take  out  the 
gall-sack  and  the  liver  and  sand  bag,  and  throw  away  the  head. 

Be  careful  not  to  break  the  galLsack,  or  the  gall  will  escape  and 
spoil  the  whole  dish.  Save  the  juice  that  runs  from  the  meat,  open- 
ing it  over  a  bowl  for  that  purpose.  The  eggs  and  meat  are  served 
in  various  ways.  If  made  into  a  soup  or  stew,  the  eggs  are  put  in 
and  served  with  it;  if  served  in  other  ways,  the  eggs  are  used  with 
other  decorations,  as  a  garnish.  In  whatever  way  served,  the  meat 
must  be  cut  finely. 

ESCALLOPED  TERRAPIN.— Put  a  cup  of  butter  in  a  sauce^pan, 
melt,  and  stir  in  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  then  pour  on  a  pint  of  hot 
water,  stirring  rapidly,  to  make  a  smooth  gravy;  pound  the  terrapin 
eggs  to  a  paste  and  add  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  trifle  of  nutmeg  to 
taste;  then  strain.  For  a  quart  of  finely  cut  terrapin,  have  a  quart 
of  bread  crumbs  made  fine;  put  a  layer  of  terrapin  on  the  bottom  of  a 
pudding  dish,  then  a  layer  of  crumbs,  then  of  sauce,  and  so  fill  the 
dish,  having  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  the  top.     Add  sweet  milk  enough 


94  SHELL^FISH 

to  show  through  the  top  layer  of  crumbs  if  it  is  not  sufficiently  moist; 
put  on  a  few  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 
Serve  with  slices  of  lemon. 

TERRAPIN  STEW — Make  a  sauce  as  for  escalloped  terrapin; 
put  in  the  meat,  cut  finely,  and  let  it  get  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil 
longer  than  a  minute.  Add  lemon  juice  to  the  stew  if  liked.  Serve 
with  croutons  or  toasted  crackers. 


■k 


SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHBLL=FISH 
AND  MEATS. 

"T  T  is  of  much  importance  that  the  cook  should  know  how  to  make 
((rj  ^  good  sauce  for  her  meats,  etc.  A  great  deal  of  the  elegance 
J^  of  cooking  depends  upon  having  the  accompaniments  of  each 
dish  appropriate  and  well  adapted  to  it.  The  most  homely  fare 
may  be  made  relishing,  and  the  most  excellent  improved,  by  a  well 
made  sauce.  It  may  safely  be  asserted  that  a  first  rate  sauce  maker  is 
also  a  good  cook.  Sauces  are  necessary  in  the  most  modest  kitchen, 
and  they  are  as  easily  made  rightly  as  wrongly,  if  one  only  knows 
how,  so  that  this  branch  of  the  art  of  cookery  deserves  very  careful 
attention.  A  busy  and  economical  house^wife  will  sometimes  say  she 
has  no  time  or  money  for  sauces,  when  as  a  matter  of  fact  she  cannot 
afford  to  do  without  them,  for,  by  using  flavorings  is  the  best  way  to 
induce  the  system  to  take  plain  food  with  relish;  and  when  we  say 
this,  we  are  not  unmindful  of  the  old  saying  that  "  hunger  is  the  best 
sauce."  Animals  certainly  would  hardly  be  considered  over  particu- 
lar, and  yet  they  have  been  known  to  starve  in  the  experimenter's 
hand  rather  than  eat  a  nutritious  food  from  which  the  flavor  had 
been  extracted  and  of  which  they  had  become  tired.  We  are  con- 
vinced that  poor  people  especially  are  too  much  inclined  to  neg- 
lect the  very  important  matter  of  flavorings  and  relishes  for  their 
food. 

The  Utensils. — To  make  sauces  successfully,  proper  utensils  should 
be  provided.  The  most  essential  are  wooden  spoons  and  round  bot- 
tomed sauce^pans.  It  is  very  difiicult  to  prevent  lumps  in  a  sauce  if 
it  has  to  be  made  with  a  pointed  spoon  and  a  flat  bottomed  pan.  All 
utensils  must,  of  course,  be  scrupulously  clean.  Sauces  are  best 
cooked  in  a  double  boiler  to  guard  against  scorching  them  in  the 
least,  which  should  be  carefully  avoided. 

Herbs,  etc — Do  not  be  appalled  at  the  number  of  ingredients,  like 
thyme,  mace,  parsley,  etc.,  called  for  in  a  recijDe.  A  few  cents  will 
buy  enough  of  all  these  things  to  last  for  a  year,  and  the  good  cook 
aims  to  keep  a  small  sujpply  of  all  flavoring  herbs  on  hand;  but  if 
you  do  not  have  them  ail,  very  good  results  may  be  produced  with 
less. 

Thickening. — The  most  common  thickening  for  sauce  is  Jloiir. 
The  quantity  generally  used  is  one  ounce,  or  a  heaping  tablespoon,  to 

95 


90        SAUCES  FOK  FISH,  SHELL=FISH  AND  MEATS 

a  pint  of  liquid;  though  2  or  3  times  that  is  needed  to  make  a  sauce 
thick  enough  to  adhere  to  \^hat  it  is  poured  over.  Corivstarch  or  ar- 
row-rooi  is  often  used  instead  of  flour,  and  makes  a  smooth  and  more 
delicate  sauce.  All  sauces  containing  flour  or  any  other  form  of 
starch  for  thickening,  must  hoU,  and  must'  be  stirred  uniil  it  boils, 
or  the  starch  will  settle  to  the  bottom  and  make  lumps,  instead  of 
thickening  the  whole.  Although  the  starch  swells,  and  thickens  the 
liquid  even  before  the  boiling  point  is  reached,  even  in  this  pulver- 
ized form  the  starch  needs  to  cook  ten  minutes  at  least,  to  he  made 
digestible;  it  should  be  remembered  that  all  starch  needs  at  least  10 
to  20  minutes  cooking. 

There  is  some  difPerence  in  the  quality  of  flour  and  it  does  not 
thicken  the  same  at  one  time  as  another.  Dry  flour  must  never  be 
mixed  with  hot  liquid  unless  it  is  intended  to  form  lumps;  but  it 
must  flrst  be  stirred  to  a  smooth  jDaste  with  cold  liquid,  and  then  the 
hot  poured  over  it,  or  it  must  be  mixed  with  a  little  melted  fat  over 
the  fire  when  hot,  or  cold  liquid  can  be  gradually  added.  As  a  gen- 
eral rule,  the  following  is  the  best  way  to  mix  all  flour  sauces:  Melt 
the  fat,  stir  in  the  flour,  and  when  they  are  well  mixed,  and  there  are 
no  lumps,  add  liquid  gradually,  on  or  off  the  fire,  stirring  continu- 
ously till  all  boils.  Sometimes  the  flour  is  cooked  in  the  fat  until  it 
takes  a  brown  color,  more  or  less  dark.  Sauces  thus  made  have  a 
fine  flavor,  and  are  smooth  and  free  from  grease. 

All  the  different  kinds  of  brown  sauces  are  made  by  using  brown 
stock,  browning  the  butter,  and  using  various  seasoning  materials. 
As  flour,  when  cooked  into  brown  roux  does  not  thicken  quite  as 
much  as  when  uncooked,  rather  more  is  needed. 

Eggs  are  also  used  to  thicken  sauces,  sometimes  the  yolk  only, 
sometimes  both  yolk  and  white,  and  both  with  and  without  the  addi- 
tion of  flour.  They  must  be  M^ell  stirred  and  never  allowed  to  heat 
to  boiling,  as  the  yolk  then  hardens,  and  will  not  mix  with  the  sauce: 
but  they  must  be  heated  enough  to  slightly  coagulate  the  albumen, 
or  the  sauce  does  not  thicken.  To  pour  boiling  water  very  gradually 
over  the  eggs  in  a  basin  is  often  sufficient.  The  safest  way  to  cook 
an  egg  sauce  is  in  a  basin  or  pitcher  standing  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water,  or  in  a  hcmi  marie  made  on  purpose;  but  an  ordinary  sauce- 
pan can  be  used  if  care  is  exercised.  On  the  least  appearance  of 
"  curdling,"  the  sauce  should  be  lifted  from  the  fire,  poured  into  a 
,  cold  basin,  and  stirred. 
'^j^M\^  v\-.  Coloring  for  Sauces — It  may  be  said  that  sauces  should  as  a  rule 
be  of  some  decided  color.  In  order  to  get  these  decided  colors,  ar- 
tificial coloring  matter  is  often  used.     Brown  is  the  most  common 


SAUCES  FOK  FISH,  SHELL^FISH  AND  MEATS       9T 

and  the  most  harmless,  for  it  is  produced  by  roasted  flour,  sugar  or 
vegetables,  which  add  to  the  flavor  as  well  as  appearance,  if  not 
carried  to  the  point  of  burning.  Onion  skins  contain  much  col- 
oring of  a  harmless  kind.  Home-made  brown  roux  is  to  be  preferred 
to  that  which  is  bought,  and  is  much  cheaper.  Milk,  cream,  or 
white  stock  are  used  in  white  sauces.  Lobster  spawn  gives  a  bril- 
liant scarlet.  Spinach  green  is  always  harmless,  and  is  the  only 
green  suitable  for  kitchen  use,  as  many  greens  contain  arsenic. 
Other  harmless  colors  are  given  in  our  article  on  frosting  for  cakes. 

Good  fresh  butter  only  should  be  used  for  flrst  rate  sauces.  In- 
ferior or  rancid  butter  should  never  be  used;  it  is  not  as  good  as 
fresh  beef  dripping  or  fat.  Where  economy  is  studied,  it  is  better 
to  use  less  butter  and  have  that  good,  than  to  buy  a  large  quantity 
of  cheap  cooking  butter. 

Meat  should  always  be  sufficiently  fat  to  "  cook  itself,"  that  is 
it  should  furnish  enough  oil  for  the  gravy — if  it  does  not,  it  is  poor 
meat.  Good  salad  oil  is  much  used  in  salads,  and  dishes  made  of 
dry  cooked  meats,  as  the  gravy  is  mostly  served  with  the  hot  meat 
at  dinner. 

Serve  hot. — Gravies  and  sauces  should  be  sent  to  the  table  very 
hot.  Being  made  in  small  quantities,  they  are  more  liable  to  cool 
quickly  than  if  they  were  in  a  larger  body.  If  made  before  the  mo- 
ment of  serving,  they  should  be  kept  in  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water ; 
a  fish  kettle  makes  a  good  improvised  hain  marie. 

Roux  (pronounced  Roo). — Brown  Roux,  for  thickening  gravies 
and  sauces,  is  made  by  melting  butter  in  a  stew-pan  and  adding  an 
equal  quantity  of  flour.  Stir  constantly  while  it  is  browning,  so  that 
it  will  not  burn;  when  of  a  nice  yellowish  brown,  put  it  in  jars,  cover 
tightly,  and  keep  it  in  a  dry  dark  place.  It  is  then  ready  to  use  at 
any  time  by  taking  1  or  2  heaping  spoonfuls,  according  to  the  quan- 
tity of  soup,  and  stirring  it  in  while  the  soup  is  boiling,  and  it  will 
instantly  thicken.     This  is  the  Brown  Roux  used  by  foreign  cooks. 

The  White  Roux  is  made  in  the  same  manner,  but  only  cooked 
together  for  a  few  minutes  without  browning.  Many  prefer  the  bits 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  used  as  occasion  requires ;  then  there  is 
no  danger  of  rancidity  or  waste,  as  there  might  be  if  a  quantity  of 
roux  was  prepared  and  it  was  not  needed  for  use,  as  expected. 

Condiments. — These  are  used  to  give  a  relish  to  food  and  gratify  the  taste. 
The  principal  condiments  are  salt,  vinegar,  oil,  butter,  herbs,  spices,  ginger,  pep- 
per and  mustard.  Some  of  these,  like  mustard,  are  food  and  condiment  combined. 
When  taken  in  moderation  they  are  conducive  to  health,  but  used  to  excess,  they 
are  highly  injurious. 

It  is  diflBcult  to  draw  a  very  distinct  line  between  spices  and  condiments,  but 
7 


98 


SAUCES  FOK  FISH,  SHELL  FISH  AND  MEATS 


spices  are  generally  added  to  articles  of  food  containing  sugar,  while  condimenta 
are  eaten  with  meat,  and  generally  with  any  foods  which  contain  common  salt. 
Cloves  and  allspice  are,  however,  eaten  with  meat,  and  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and 
mace  with  sweet  foods.  Spices  can  be  used  in  moderation,  but  if  used  in  eicess, 
they  irritate  the  mucous  membrane  and  are  harmful,  often  causing  dyspepsia. 


SAUCES 


ASPIC  JELLY — Take  a  tablespoon  of  good  extract  of  meat 
add  2  quarts  of  water,  a  small  onion  cut  finely,  or  a  bit  of  garlic,  a 
pinch  of  celery-seed,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a  carrot  cut  finely,  with  the 
rind  of  a  lemon,  and  a  few  drops  of  tarragon  vinegar.  Let  all  boil 
slowly  together  until  the  vegetables  are  soft.  Have  2  large  table- 
spoons of  gelatine  soaking  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover,  and  add 
when  the  vegetables  are  done.  Stir  in  the  softened  gelatine  until  it 
is  dissolved,  and  add  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  with  the  whites  of  2 
eggs  slightly  beaten;  now  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  set  back  on  the 
range  for  15  minutes.  Strain  through  a  jelly^bag  until  clear,  pour 
into  a  mould  and  place  on  ice.  Aspic  jelly  is  used  as  a  garnish  for 
various  meat  dishes,  A  plain  lemon  jelly  made  with  gelatine,  an- 
swers every  purpose  for  decorations,  instead  of  this  elaborate  jelly. 

BOKDEAUX  SAUCE. 


2  quarts  of  cider  vinegar. 

2  quarts  finely  chopped  green 

tomatoes. 
2  quarts  finely  chopped  cabbage 
1  ounce  of  turmeric. 
1  teaspoon  celery  seed. 


1  teaspoon  ground  ginger. 

1  teaspoon  ground  cloves. 

1  heaping  teaspoon  of  salt. 

1  teaspoon  of  ground  mustard. 

1  teaspoon  of  ground  black  pepper. 

1  heaping  teaspoon  of  sugar. 
Mix  all  together  and  cook  until  soft,  stirring  often  to  prevent 
sticking  to  the  sauce=pan.       Cork  tightly  in  wide  mouthed  bottles, 
and  keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place.     A  good  meat  sauce. 

Cloves  are  the  dried  flower  buds  of  the  clove  tree,  an 
evergreen  tree  belonging  to  the  myrtle  order.  Our  supplies 
come  principally  from  Zanzibar  and  the  West  Indies.  They 
contain  a  considerable  quantity  of  a  pungent  oil  which  is 
aromatic  and  stimulant. 

BREAD  SAUCE — Dry  white  bread  or  rolls 
thoroughly  in  the  oven,  but  do  not  brown  them; 
then  roll  on  the  moulding  board,  put  it  in  the  fine 
colander,  and  sift  through  the  finer  crumbs.  Put 
the  fine  crumbs  in  a  sauce=pan,  and  for  each 
cup,  add  2  cups  stock  or  water,  a  slice  of  onion, 
with  pepper  and  salt;  simmer  20  minutes.  In 
the  meantime  put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  the  small 


THE    CLOVE. 


SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL^FISH  AND  MEATS       99 

frying=pan,  and  when  melted  add  the  coarser  crumbs  of  bread;  stir 
continually  until  they  are  a  nice  golden  brown.  Take  the  onion 
from  the  sauce,  add  the  browned  bread  crumbs,  and  serve  in  a  sauce= 
boat.  This  sauce  can  be  made  with  fresh  sweet  milk  instead  of 
stock,  and  is  served  with  game. 

ANCHOVY  SAUCE. — Take  1  cup  of  drawn  butter  sauce,  and 
add  1  tablespoon  of  anchovy  paste  or  extract. 

BECHAMEL  OR  WHITE  SAUCE— Put  |  a  cup  of  butter  in  a 
sauce-pan  and  let  it  soften;  mix  with  it  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  then 
add  1  pint  of  milk;  set  the  sauce^pan  in  a  larger  one  containing  hot 
water,  stir  constantly  until  it  thickens,  and  let  it  scald;  rub  out  the 
lumps,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  This  can  be  used  as  a 
foundation  for  many  other  sauces.  A  few  bits  of  celery,  sprigs  of 
parsley  and  a  little  nutmeg  can  be  added,  with  a  sliced  onion,  if 
desired,  for  flavor;  scald  15  minutes,  strain  through  cloth  to 
remove  onion,  etc.,  and  send  to  the  table.  It  is  often  made  with  ^ 
milk  and  ^  stock. 

BROWN  SAUCE. — Fry  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  onion  in  1 
tablespoon  of  butter;  let  this  brown,  but  not  burn,  and  then  add  1 
heaping  tablespoon  of  flour;  stir  thoroughly  and  then  add  (a  little  at 
a  time)  1  cup  of  hot  stock,  stirring  rapidly  until  it  is  smooth  and 
thick.  Season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt,  let  it  simmer  5  min- 
utes; remove  the  onion  by  straining  the  sauce.  Leave  out  the  onion 
if  its  flavor  is  not  liked.  Color  with  caramel.  This  will  serve  as  the 
foundation  for  many  sauces  by  using  various  flavoring  materials. 

DRAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE.— Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  into  a 
sauce^pan  and  melt  it,  but  do  not  let  it  turn  brown;  then  add  1 
tablespoon  of  flour  and  mix  well;  then  add  (a  little  at  a  time)  1  cup 
of  hot  water,  or  white  stock  if  you  have  it,  stirring  it  thoroughly. 
When  smooth,  add  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  cut  in  pieces,  and  stir 
it  in  thoroughly.  Add  pep]per  and  salt  to  season,  and  strain  it  if  not 
perfectly  smooth.  This  can  be  used  as  the  foundation  for  many  other 
sauces.  A  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  can  be  added  by 
those  who  want  it  acid,  and  a  little  finely  cut  parsley  can  be  added 
also  if  desired. 

Maitre  d'  Hotel  Butter — Melt  a  teacup  of  butter  in  a  sauce^panj 
stir  into  it  a  tablespoon  of  corn-starch,  then  a  pint  of  hot  water;  stir 
well  so  that  it  will  be  smooth.  Add  the  strained  juice  of  a  lemon, 
a  saltspoon  of  cayenne;  salt  to  taste  and  add  2  large  spoons  of 
chopped  parsley.     It  is  served  with  meat  or  boiled  fish. 

Butter,  Montpelier. — Pick  the  leaves  from  water  cress,  which  must 
be   green  and  fresh,   chop   thorn    finely,   dry    them  in  a  cloth  and 

.  L.ct  0. 


100      SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL  FISH  AND  MEATS 

mince  again;  then  thoroughly  mix  them  with  fresh  butter  until  il  is 
of  a  bright  green,  seasoning  with  the  pepper,  or  cayenne  and  s^.lt. 
This  is  used  as  an  appetizer,  for  spreading  croutons,  or  to  make  a 
garnish  for  savory  dishes. 

Horseradish  Butter. — Thoroughly  mix  equal  parts  of  horseradish 
and  butter,  pass  through  a  sieve  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Garlic  or  Tarragon  Butter  can  be  prepared  the  same  way,  regulat- 
ing the  flavor  by  the  proportion  of  butter  used  to  the  other  ingredi- 
ents. 

Nut  Butters. — Peanuts,  hazel  nuts,  filberts  or  other  nuts  can  be 
pounded,  mixed  with  butter,  and  then  passed  through  a  sieve.  The 
strength  can  be  regulated  by  the  proportions  used.  They  are  deli- 
cious and  easily  made 

Scented  Butter. — Butter  can  be  worked  in  a  bowl  with  a  few  drops 
of  the  essence  of  any  scent  desired,  then  passed  through  a  sieve,  and 
it  is  ready  for  use. 

CAPER  SAUCE. — Melt  a  cup  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  stir  in  2 
tablesi30ons  of  flour,  then  add  a  pint  of  hot  water,  stirring  rajjidly 
while  it  boils  and  thickens;  add  a  little  salt  if  needed,  a  trifle  of 
white  pepper,  and  about  a  gill  of  jDickled  capers.  Caper  sauce  is 
served  with  boiled  fish,  boiled  mutton  and  lamb. 

Mock  Capers. — Pick  full  grown  seeds  of  nasturtiums,  but  which 
have  not  turned  yellow,  leaving  2  inches  of  the  stem  attached;  wash 
them,  put  in  a  glass  jar,  add  vinegar  enough  to 
cover,  and  in  7  or  8  days  they  can  be  used. 

Capers  are  the  unopened  buds  of  a  low,  trailing 
shrub  growing  in  Asia  and  Africa,  and  they  are  now  culti- 
vated in  Europe.  They  are  pickled  in  vinegar  and  salt 
before  being  imported,  and  are  used  to  flavor  sauces  and 
vinegars.  They  have  a  pleasant  pungent  taste,  and  pos- 
sess both  stimulant  and  laxative  properties.  They  are 
sometimes  colored  green  by  the  use  of  copper  vessels, 
producing  a  poisonous  adulteration.  This  can  be 
detected  by  inserting  a  polished  piece  of  steel  or  iron, 
and  if  copper  is  present  it  will  coat  the  metal  in  a 
short  time,  the  same  as  described  for  pickles.  The  hys- 
sop of  Scripture  is  a  variety  of  caper. 

THE    OAPEB. 

CAULIFLOWER  SAUCE — Make  a  drawn  butter  sauce  with 
part  cream,  and  to  it  add  boiled  cauliflower,  cut  into  small  dice. 
Nice  for  fried  or  boiled  fowls. 

CELERY  SAUCE — Take  G  sticks  of  celery  and  cut  the  white 
part  into  pieces  ^  inch  long;  cook  them  in  salted  water  for  20  min- 
utes, pour  off  the  water  and  cover  them  with  1  pint  of  milk;  boil 
until  the  celery  is  tender — about  15  minutes;  add  an  even  tablespoon 
of  flour  and  a  piece  of  butter   the  size   of   an   egg;    rub   the  flour 


SAUCES  FOE  FISH,  SHELL=FISH  AND  MEATS      101 

rimooth  with  a  little  cold  milk;  season  with  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste. 
Boil  2  minutes  to  thicken. 

CHESTNUT  SAUCE.— Take  2  cups  shelled  chestnuts,  and 
blanch  them  by  putting  them  for  3  minutes  into  boiling  water  and 
then  taking  off  the  skin;  Cook  till  soft  in  salted  water,  and  then 
mash  very  fine.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of 
flour  into  a  saucepan,  and  cook  till  brown;  add  it  to  the  chestnuts, 
stir  it  in  well,  cook  3  minutes,  and  season  to  taste  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  drippings  of  the  poultry,  stir  in  the  chest- 
nuts, and  serve.     Good  for  roast  turkey, 

CHUTNEE  SAUCE. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar.  1  clove  of  garlic. 

2  cups  vinegar.  ^  teaspoon  mustard. 
^  tablespoon  ground  ginger.             1  large  onion. 

15  sour  apples.  ^  teacup  raisins,  seeded  and 

chopped. 
Peel,  core  and  slice  the  apples,  and  stew  soft  in  just  enough 
vinegar  to  cover  them;  then  mash  finely.  Chop  the  onions  and  gar- 
lic finely  and  add,  with  the  sugar,  raisins,  salt,  ginger  and  mustard; 
scald  all  together  and  set  away  till  next  day ;  then  add  the  vinegar, 
cold,  and  mix  all  together  thoroughly.  Bottle  and  cork  tightly,  and 
keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place.      Good  for  meat  or  fish. 

CURKANT  SAUCE. 
1  cup  of  soup^stock.  1  mustard=spoon  of  cloves 

1  teaspoon  of  salt.  and  black  pepper. 

1  tumbler  of  currant  jelly.  Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon. 

Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  a  sauce-pan  with  the 
above  ingredients,  and  let  them  come  to  the  boiling  point;  then  add 
1  tablespoon  of  corn-starch  wet  with  a  little  water:  stir  until  it 
thickens,  then  send  to  the  table.     Good  with  game  and  poultry. 

CREAM  SAUCE — Heat  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan, 
and  stir  in  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  add  a  little  salt  and  a  little  white 
pepper,  then  add  gradually  a  pint  of  hot  cream.  Scald  the  cream 
by  putting  it  in  a  pitcher;  set  the  pitcher  in  a  tin  dish  or  kettle  of 
hot  water,  and  set  on  the  hot  stove.  Cream  sauce  is  good  to  serve 
with  an  omelet,  or  any  kind  of  boiled  fish. 

CUCUMBER  SAUCE — Peel  and  chop  finely  2  or  3  cucumbers 
(they  must  be  so  young  that  the  seeds  are  small);  chop  one  small 
onion  and  add  to  the  cucumbers.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne 
and  vinegar;  this  is  better  liked  by  some  people  than  the  navy 
sauce. 


102     SAUCES  FOK  FISH,  SHELL=FISH  AND  MEATS 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE.— To  serve  with  roasted  tmkey:  A  pint 
of  cranberries,  |  teacup  of  sugar,  and  |  teacup  of  water  is  about  the 
right  proportion.  Stew  the  cranberries  in  the  water  until  they  are 
tender;  then  add  the  sugar. 

CURRY  SAUCE.— Slice  thin  1  carrot,  2  onions,  1  head  of  cel- 
ery and  stew  in  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  until  tender;  put  in  a  pinch 
of  mace,  a  teaspoon  of  curry  powder  and  1  of  thyme  leaves;  add  1 
pint  of  water  and  a  bay=leaf ;  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point;  thicken 
with  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  strain  and  serve. 

EQG  SAUCE — Take  three  hard=boiled  eggs,  chop  fine,  and  add 
to  1  cup  of  drawn  butter  sauce.     Good  for  fish. 

FENNEL  SAUCE.— Mix  1  tablespoon  of 
flour  and  1  cup  water  to  a  smooth  batter;  put 
into  a  sauce^pan,  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 
season  with  salt,  and  keep  stirring  one  way 
until  all  are  melted;  add  1  tablespoon  of  fen- 
nel, chopped  fine  and  free  from  dirt;  simmer 
for  1  or  2  minutes,  and  serve.  Excellent 
for  oily  fish  like  salmon  or  mackerel. 

Fennel  is  generally  grown  in  gardens,  and  its  ele- 
gant leaves  are  used  to  ornament  and  garnish  various 
dishes  and  they  are  sometimes  used  to  flavor  soups  and 

^^^°^^'  THE  FENNEL. 

FISH  SAUCE. 

1  saltspoon  of  cayenne.  2  tablespoons  of  walnut  catsup. 

1  qt.  best  cider  vinegar.  1  teaspoon  of  salt. 
1  bruised  garlic. 

Mix   all   together!     Put  in  large  bottles,  after  standing  a  week, 

stirring  every  day;  cork  tightly.  Use  with  any  fish. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE.— Rub  ^  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs  (one  at  a  time)  and  beat  well.  Stir  in  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  1  saltspoon  of  s£,lt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper. 
When  ready  to  serve,  add  ^  cup  of  boiling  water;  place  the  bowl  in  a 
pan  of  boiling  water,  or  on  the  top  of  the  tea=kettle,  and  scald  until 
as  thick  as  custard,  stirring  all  the  time.  This  sauce  is  served  with 
fish  or  meat. 

HORSERADISH  SAUCE— Thoroughly  mix  4  tablespoons  of 
grated  horseradish  with  1  teaspoon  of  pounded  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of 
salt,  "I  teaspoon  of  pepper  and  2  teaspoons  made  mustard;  moisten  it 
with  sufficient  vinegar   to   give   it   the   consistency  of  cream;  3  or  4 


H0ESEBADI8H. 


SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL^FISH  AND  MEATS      103 

tablespoons  of  cream  added  will  improve  its  appearance  and  flavor. 
To  heat  it  to  serve  with  hot  roast  beef,  put  in  a  hain  marie,  or  put  it 
in  a  cup  or  jar  and  place  it  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water;  make  it  hot, 
but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil,  or  it  will  curdle.  This  is  a  great  improve- 
ment on  the  old-fashioned  way  of  serving  cold,  scraped  horse-radish 
with  hot  roast  beef.  Of  course  with  cold  meat  the  sauce  should  be 
served  cold. 

Horseradish  Sauce,  No.  2. — Cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  15  minutes, 
^  cup  cracker  crumbs,  ^  cup  grated  horseradish,  and  2  cups  milk;  add 
1  large  tablespoon  of  butter,   and   salt   and  pepper  to   taste.     Use 
freshly    grated    horseradish   and  rolled  cracker 
crumbs.     This  is  very  appetizing. 

No.  3. — Take  2  cups  horseradish  grated  fine, 
1  hard=boiled  egg  pulverized;  add  sweet  cream, 
and  a  little  butter;  salt    and   vinegar   to  taste. 

Horseradish  is  a  native  of  Europe  and  grows  readily 
in  damp  ground.  It  should  never  be  preserved  by  drying, 
because  of  the  great  volatility  of  its  oil,  but  the  root 
should  be  kept  moist  by  burying  it  in  the  sand.  Its  vola- 
tile oil  evaporates  so  rapidly  that  even  when  scraped  for 
the  table  it  almost  immediately  spoils  by  exposure  to  the 
air.  It  stimulates  the  appetite  and  aids  digestion,  but  is 
most  unwholesome  when  taken  on  an  empty  stomach. 

LEMON  SAUCE.— For  a  boiled  fowl  take  the  chicken  liver  boil- 
ed and  mashed  fine;  add  the  juice  and  pulp  of  one  lemon  (without 
the  seeds)  and  add  it  to  1  cup  of  drawn  butter  sauce, 

LOBSTER  SAUCE — Take  the  meat  from  the  tail  and  claws  of 
a  boiled  lobster,  chop  it  into  dice  ^  inch  in  size.  Add  it  to  a  drawn 
butter  sauce,  and  season  with  cayenne  pepper,  salt  and  lemon  juice. 
Adding  a  teaspoon  of  lobster  butter  will  make  it  a  bright  red.  Good 
for  any  fish. 

MANDRAM  SAUCE — Take  cucumbers,  pare  them,  and  chop  in 
small  pieces;  take  half  the  quantity  of  young  onions  and  cut  them 
fine;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  dessert-spoon  of  vinegar.  This 
is  very  good  with  any  roast  meat. 

MATELOTE  SAUCE — Peel  and  cut  finely  2  large  or  4  small 
onions,  and  fry  them  in  a  little  butter  until  they  are  a  rich  brown, 
but  do  not  burn  them;  then  add  about  half  a  teacup  of  butter. 
When  it  is  all  melted,  stir  in  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  when  it  is 
well  browned  in  the  butter,  add  half  a  pint  of  cold  water;  stir  well 
and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Season  with  ground  white  pepper,  a  little 
nutmeg,  a  saltspoon  of  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste;  rub  all  through  the 
fine  colander  and  return  to  the  sauce^pan  to  keep  hot  until  wanted. 
Good  \vith  meats. 


104      SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL=FISH  AND  MEATS 

MISS  MAITLAND'S  MAYONNAISE.— Take  the  raw  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  ^  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  a  pinch  of  white  pepper, 
a  mustard  spoon  of  made  mustard,  |  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  ^  pint 
of  olive  oil.  After  all  is  thoroughly  blended,  add  2  tablespoons  of 
tarragon  vinegar.     Good  with  fish. 

MILK  SAUCE  (Plain). — Melt  |  cup  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan; 
stir  in  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  then  pour  in  and  stir  rapidly  1  pint  of 
scalded  milk;  season  with  salt  and  white  pepper. 

MINT    SAUCE — Take  2  tablespoons  sugar,  ^  cup   of   finely   cut 
mint,  ^  cup  vinegar;  mix  and  let  stand  1  or  2  hours  before  serving,  to 
well  season  the  vinegar  with  the  mint.     Use   the  leaves 
and    tender    tips     only;   wash   them   in   slightly    salt- 
ed water;  then  shake  off  the  water,  gather  tightly  in  the 
hand,  and  cut  finely  with  the  scissors. 

Mint. — There  are  many  varieties  of  mint,  and  tlie  species  are 
distributed  nearly  all  over  the  world.  The  green  mint  or  sjjear- 
mint  is  the  variety  commonly  used  in  cookery,  the  leaves  being 
used  in  sauces  and  salads,  and  to  counteract  the  flatulent  proper- 
ties of  some  young  vegetables.  Spearmint  is  highly  esteemed  as 
an  anti=3pasmodic  and  stomachic.  Peppermint  is  another  variety, 
possessing  the  same  properties,  but  is  much  stronger.  The  oil 
which  is  extracted  from  it  is  a  carminative  and  stimulant,  and  is 
used  for  flavoring  lozenges,  etc.  mint. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE — Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 
in  a  sauceqjan  with  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  sifted  flour.  Soften  the 
butter  and  mix  thoroughly  with  the  flour;  then  add  1  pint  of  hot 
stock,  broth,  or  hot  water;  boil  up,  and  add  4  teaspoons  of  mush- 
room catsup,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon;  beat  an  egg  thoroughly  and 
stir  into  the  sauce;  remove  immediately  from  the  fire  to  prevent 
curdling.     This  sauce  is  served  with  poultry  and  game. 

MUSTARD  SAUCE — To  1  cup  of  drawn  butter  sauce,  add  a 
little  cayenne  pepi^er  and  three  teaspoons  of  prepared  mustard. 

Prepared  Mustard — Take  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  ground  mustard 
and  add  1  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  \  teaspoon  of  salt;  wet  it  with  good 
vinegar  and  stir  it  to  a  smooth  paste;  then  add  more  vinegar  and 
cook  it  until  it  thickens  like  paste,  adding  more  vinegar  until  of  the 
consistency  required. 

No.  2.— Put  3  large  tablespoons  of  ground  mustard  into  a  bowl, 
and  pour  on  enough  warm  water  to  make  a  stiff  paste;  rub  smooth, 
add  I  cup  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs;  set 
the  mixture  in  bollliig  water,  and  stir  constantly  until  it  thickens; 
then  add  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  continue  the  stirring  until  it 
is  dissolved.     Splendid. 


SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL^FISH  AND  MEATS     105 

French  Mustard". — Use  4  tablespoons  of  the  best  English  mustard, 
2  teaspoons  of  salad  oil,  2  teaspoons  of  white  sugar,  2  teaspoons  of 
salt,  1  teaspoon  of  white  pepper,  1  small  garlic  minced  very  fine,  and 
tarragon  vinegar  to  mix  to  a  smooth  paste.  Put  the  mustard  into  a 
bowl  and  add  the  oil,  rubbing  it  in  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  is 
all  absorbed.  Wet  with  the  vinegar  until  you  have  a  stiff  paste;  add 
the  salt,  pepper,  garlic  and  sugar,  and  work  all  together  thoroughly, 
wetting  little  by  little  with  the  vinegar  until  you  can  beat  it  as  you 
do  cake  batter.  Beat  5  minutes  very  hard;  put  into  wide  mouthed 
bottles — empty  French  mustard  bottles  are  the  thing,  if  you  happen 
to  have  them — pour  a  little  oil  on  the  top,  cork  tightly  and  set  away 
in  a   cool  place.     It  will  be   well  mixed  and  ready  for  use  in  2  days. 

French  Mustard,  No.  2. — Take  2  tablespoons  mustard,  pour  on  it 
just  enough  boiling  hot  water  to  make  a  paste;  then  add  a  teaspoon  of 
salt,  and  1  of  sugar,  and  add  a  few  drops  of  salad  oil  if  you  have  it,  a 
little  butter,  then  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar. 

.German  Mustard. — Take  8  tablespoons  of  mustard,   4  tablespoons 
white  sugar,  4  tablespoons  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  cayenne   pepper,  4   ta- 
blespoons  of  butter,   and  juice  of  1  large  raw  onion; 
mix  all  well   together,    and    moisten    with    a  little 
vinegar. 

The  flour  of  mustard  in  common  use  is  ground  from  the 
seed  of  black  mustard  {sinapis  nigra).  It  possesses  an  agree- 
able pungency,  and  is  the  best  stimulant  employed  to  impart 
strength  to  the  digestive  organs.  In  its  present  form  it  has 
only  been  in  use  about  150  years,  although  it  was  used  long  be- 
fore in  a  coarsly  powdered  state.  Mixed  with  hot  water,  it  is  a 
strong  emetic.  In  moderate  quantities,  both  mustard  and  red 
pepper  are  useful  with  indigestible  foods,  like  lobster,  etc.,  as 
they  are  stimulant  and  aid  in  the  digestion.  Mustard  is  best 
mixed  with  cold  water,  as  hot  water  impairs  its  essential  prop- 
erties. It  is  well  to  prepare  it  in  small  quantities,  as  it  is  bet-  m.ua±ji.au. 
ter  when  freshly  made. 

NAVY  SAUCE. — Chop  finely  2  or  3  large  onions,  and  season 
highly  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar.  This  is  fine  for  those  who  like 
raw  onions,  and  is  served  with  oysters  raw  or  cooked. 

NUT  SAUCE — This  is  made  by  pounding  to  a  paste,  in  a  mor- 
tar, the  meats  of  any  kind  of  wild  nuts  (hazel  nuts,  hickory  nuts, 
butter-nuts,  etc.)  and  mixing  the  paste  with  an  equal  amount  of 
nice  buttter.     It  is  served  with  game,  or  poultry. 

OLIVE  SAUCE. — Extract  the  salt  from  1  doz.  olives  by  soaking 
them  "I  hour  in  warm  water;  then  pare  them  close  to  the  stone, 
round  and  round,  as  you  would  an  apple,  to  remove  the  stone.  Then 
put  the  olive  into  ^  pint  brown  sauce,  simmer  10  to  15  minutes  and 
serve.     Good  with  roast  duck  or  other  game. 


106      SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL=FISH  AND  MEATS 

ONION  SAUCE.— Take  3  good' sized  onions,  boil  them  till  soft, 
pulp  through  a  sieve,  and  mix  it  into  1  cup  white  sauce.  Good  with 
mutton  or  lamb  chop. 

OYSTER  SAUCE — Blanch  small  oysters,  drain  and  dry  in  a 
towel,  and  add  them  to  drawn  butter  sauce;  put  in  a  very  little  lemon 
juice  or  tarragon  vinegar,  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point  and  serve. 
It  goes  with  fish,  boiled  turkey  or  chicken. 

PARSLEY  SAUCE — Take  2  tablespoons  of  chopped  parsley, 
and  add  it  to  1  cup  of  hot  drawn  butter  sauce.  Color  with  spinach 
green  if  you  have  it,  as  that  will  improve  the  appearance. 

PICKLE  SAUCE.— Take  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  finely  chopped 
cucumber  pickles,  and  add  them  to  a  drawn  butter  sauce. 

SAUCE  PIQUANTE.— Add  1  tablespoon  each  of  chopped  cu- 
cumber pickles,  capers  and  vinegar,  to  one  cup  of  brown  sauce. 

POTATO  SAUCE — Grate  3  or  4  large  potatoes,  wash  out  the 
starch,  and  dry  a  little  in  a  napkin;  chop  a  small  onion  and  mix 
with  the  raw  potato.  Season  highly  with  salt,  cayenne  and  vinegar. 
Good  with  raw  or  cooked  oysters. 

PEPPER  SAUCE — Break  in  pieces  6  pods  of  red  pepper,  3 
dozen  black  pepper-corns  broken  in  a  mortar,  2  tablespoons  of  white 
sugar,  and  1  quart  best  vinegar.  Scald  the  vinegar  in  which  the 
sugar  has  been  dissolved,  pour  it  over  the  peppers,  put  in  a  jar,  and 
steep  a  fortnight;  strain  and  bottle.  This  is  served  with  raw  oys- 
ters, or  fish,  and  is  a  fine  addition  to  various  salads. 

RAISIN  SAUCE. — Cut  in  two  and  remove  the  seeds  from  1  lb. 
of  large  choice  raisins;  put  over  the  fire  in  a  pint  of  hot  water  and 
stew  slowly  until  tender;  then  add  1  pint  of  granulated  sugar,  ^  pint 
of  good  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoon  of  mixed  ground  cin- 
namon and  cloves.  Boil  all  together  10  minutes,  and  cork  well  in 
wide  mouthed  bottles.     An  excellent  sauce  for  any  cold  meats. 

SAUCE  ROBERT — Cut  finely  3  large  onions,  and  fry  in  a 
piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg;  caramel  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  and 
add  it  to  ^  pint  of  water,  and  2  tablespoons  of  good  cider  or  wine 
vinegar;  add  salt,  ground  white  pepper,  a  saltspoon  of  dry  mustard, 
and  a  pinch  of  pulverized  sage.  Boil  well  together  and  add  a  tea- 
spoon of  corn=starch  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  This  is  good  with 
most  kinds  of  meat,  game,  or  fish. 

SHRIMP  SAUCE— Take  |  of  a  cup  of  chopped,  picked,  boiled 
shrimx)s,  and  add  it  to  1  cup  drawn  butter  sauce;  let   it   merely   sim- 


SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL^^FISH  AND  MEATS      107 

mer.  without  boiling,  and  add  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice  the  last  thing. 

SAUCE  SUPREME— Chop  3  mushrooms  finely,  add  1  table- 
spoon  of  butter  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  mix  it  into  2  cups  be- 
chamel sauce,  let  all  simmer  10  minutes,  rub  through  a  strainer,  and 
it  is  ready  for  use. 

TARTAR  SAUCE. — Take  2  tablespoons  each  of  Worcestershire 
sauce  and  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  and  2  saltspoons  of 
salt;  put  them  into  a  bowl  and  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  to  heat.  Put 
I  Clip  of  butter  in  a  sauce=pan,  brown  it,  strain,  and  add  to  the  other 
ingredients.     Serve  it  hot  with  boiled  fish. 

SAUCE  TARTARE — Put  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  into  a  sauce^pan, 
and  add  ^  teaspoon  salt  and  1  teaspoon  mustard ;  then  add  alternately 
1  teaspoon  each  of  olive  oil  and  tarragon  vinegar  (adding  them  very 
gradually)  until  it  is  of  the  right  consistency.  Then  add  2  chopped 
shallots,  or  instead  2  tablespoons  chopped  pickled  onions  and  gher- 
kins. This  sauce  is  often  too  acid.  It  goes  well  with  fried  oysters 
or  fish,  or  with  boiled  tongue  or  codfish. 

TOMATO  SAUCE.— To  6  tomatoes  add  2  cloves,  pepper,  salt 
and  a  sprig  of  parsley;  stew  30  minutes,  and  strain  through  a  sieve 
into  a  saucepan  put  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  set  over  the  fire,  and 
when  it  bubbles  well,  add  1  large  tablespoon  flour;  when  well  Cooked 
(keeping  it  stirred  and  mixed  well)  add  the  strained  tomato;  stir  un= 
til  smooth,  and  serve.  This  can  also  be  made  with  canned  toma- 
toes. 

SAUCE  VELOUTE — Heat  in  melted  butter,  1  pound  of  veal,  cut 
finely,  and  any  bits  of  fowl  you  may  have,  together  with  12  good=siz- 
ed  mushrooms;  do  not  let  them  brown;  then  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  two  carrots  and  onions  cut  finely,  a  large  tablespoon  of 
flour,  salt,  pepper,  a  little  mixed  spice  and  as  much  veal  gravy  as  will 
cover  them.  Let  it  boil  up,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  let  it  simmer  for  an 
hour  and  a  half;  strain,  and  keep  it  covered  for  use. 

WORCESTERSHIRE    SAUCE. 

1  oz.  of  cayenne.  1  grated  nutmeg.  ^ 
6  anchovies  (mashed).  1  oz.  of  salt. 

2  qts.  vinegar.  6  cloves  of  garlic  (minced). 
1  oz.  black  pepper.  1  oz.  cloves  (pulverized). 

Mix  all  together  and  let  it  stand  in  a  jug  for  2  weeks;  then 
'strain  and  bottle  for  use.  It  must  be  tightly  corked  and  kept  in  a 
dry,  cool  place. 


108     SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL=FISH  AND  MEATS 

WORCESTERSHIRE    SAUCE,    No.    2. 
3  teaspoons  cayenne.  1  mustard= spoon  powdered  cloves. 

3  anchovies,  chopped  fine.  3  onions,  chopped  fine. 

3  teaspoons  walnut  catsup.  1  qt.  good  cider  or  wine  vinegar. 

Put  all  together  in  a  stone  jar  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  water  to 
become  scalding  hot;  then  let  it  stand  in  the  jar,  closely  covered,  2 
days;  bottle  after  straining,  and  cork  tightly. 

WALNUT  SAUCE. — A  half  peck  of  walnuts  young  enough  to 
crush  easily — they  can  be  rolled  on  a  board  or  crushed  in  a  mortar. 
Add  2  quarts  of  vinegar  "and  a  gill  of  salt.  Stir  and  mash  together 
for  a  week;  then  boil  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  adding  a  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  ground  black  pepper,  the  same  of  cloves,  1  grated  nutmeg, 
1  teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  1  teaspoon  of  ground  ginger. 
Boil  all  to  a  paste;  if  too  thick  to  run  from  a  bottle,  add  more  vine- 
gar to  thin  it.  Keep  corked  tightly  in  a  dark  closet.  Some  cooks 
do  not  mash  while  cooking,  but  strain  off  the  juice  to  bottle.  Good 
with  meats. 

CURRY  POWDER.     {Kitchener's.) 
3  oz.  coriander  seed.  1  oz.  mustard,  ground. 

1  oz.  cayenne.  ^  oz.  fenugreek  seed. 

1  oz.  allspice.  2  oz.  cassia  buds. 

3  oz.  turmeric.  1  oz.  ground  ginger. 

Pulverize  all  together;  bottle  tight,  and  keep  in  a  dark  closet. 
Good  for  meats. 

CURRY  POWDER.     {White's.) 

^  lb.  turmeric.  2  oz.  ground  ginger. 

4  oz.  black  pepper.  |  oz.  cardamon  seed. 
^  oz.  caraway  seed.  8  oz.  coriander  seed. 
4  oz.  cumin  seed.  2  oz.  cayenne. 

Pulverize  and  bottle  as  above. 

HERB  POWDER  FOR  FLAVORING— Dry  in  a  moderate  oven 
very  carefully  2  oz.  each  of  thyme,  winter  savory,  parsley,  sweet 
marjoram  and  lemon  peel;  then  pound  the  lemon  peel  in  a  mortar 
separately  with  ^  oz.  celery  seed;  then  pound  the 
herbs,  mix  all,  pass  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  keep 
closely  corked  in  a  bottle.      To  use,  add  to  each  2 
pints  of  soup  1  teaspoon  of  the  powder. 

The  Maejobam  is  a  plant  of  which  there  are  several 
varieties.  The  sweet  or  knotted  marjoram  ia  the  one  usual- 
ly preferred  in  cookery.  It  is  a  native  of  Greece.  It  is 
rather  tender,  and  requires  a  light,  dry  soil,  but  if  taken  in 
doors  and  kept  in  a  warm,  sheltered  place,  free  from  wet,  it 
may  be  kept  through  the  winter.  The  leaves  have  an 
agreeable  aromatic  flavor,  and  are  used  in  soups,  stuffings, 
etc.     Medicinally    it    is   a  stimulant    tonic,  and  useful  for  makjobam. 

nervousness. 


SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL=FISH  AND  MEATS     109 

RAGOUT  POWDER.— Take  1  oz.  of  lemon  peel,  dried  and 
grated,  1  oz.  each  of  black  pepper  and  mustard,  ^  oz.  each  of  nutmeg, 
ginger,  mace  and  cloves,  all  ground  fine;  1  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper, 
and  4  tablespoons  of  salt.  Thoroughly  mix  the  ingredients  together, 
pass  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  keep  in  closely  corked  bottle.  Ragout 
or  sauce  is  much  improved  by  adding  a  teaspoon  of  the  powder. 

SASSAFRAS  POWDER — Select  sassafras  leaves  which  are  very 
young  and  tender,  and  dry  them  in  a  cool,  airy  place,  spread  out  on 
white  paper;  then  pound  in  a  mortar  till  fine,  pass  through  a  hair 
sieve;  bottle  and  cork  tightly.  They  are  used  in  gumbo  and  other 
soups,  and  in  sauces. 

FLAVORED  VINEGARS — These  are  a  great  addition  to  many 
dishes,  like  fish,  sauces,  salads,  meats,  etc.  Keep  them  well  corked, 
in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

Cayenne  Vinegar. — Put  into  a  glass  bottle  2  cups  vinegar  and  1 
tablespoon  of  cayenne  pepper,  let  stand  4  weeks,  strain  and  bottle  for 
use.  It  is  useful  for  gargling  sore  throats,  as  well  as  for  seasoning 
soups  and  sauces;  but  very  little  is  needed  at  a  time. 

Celery  Vinegar. — Put  into  a  jar  2  pints  celery,  chopped  fine;  bring 
to  a  boil  and  pour  on  hot,  2  pints  good  cider  vinegar,  and  1  table- 
spoon each  of  sugar  and  salt;  let  it  cool,  cover  and  let  it  stand  a  fort- 
night; strain  and  bottle. 

Chili  Vinegar. — Out  finely  1  quart  of  chili  peppers,  or  any  kind  of 
ripe  red  peppers.  Add  a  quart  of  vinegar  and  a  tablespoon  of  salt; 
let  it  stand  for  a  week,  stirring  daily;  then  strain  and  bottle  for  use. 

Cucumber  Vinegar — Pare,  slice,  and  put  into  a  stone  jar,  10  large 
or  12  small  cucumbers;  add  2  onions  sliced,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  2  ta- 
blespoons of  pepper,  |  teaspoon  cayenne  and  1  quart  vinegar;  let  it 
stand  1  week,  boil  it  up  once,  and  when  cold,  strain  through  muslin, 
bottle  and  seal.  Excellent  for  gravies,  hashes,  salads  and  cold 
meats. 

Elder=flower  Vinegar. — Into  1  quart  of  good  strong  vinegar  put  1 
pint  elder  flowers  free  from  the  stalks;  let  stand  2  weeks  in  the  sun 
or  in  a  warm  place;  strain  through  flannel,  and  put  up  in  quite  small 
bottles.  It  can  also  be  made  by  infusing  the  leaves,  either  fresh  or 
dried,  in  the  same  way,  the  fresh  being  the  best.  The  vinegar  is 
used  both  in  cookery  and  in  perfumery. 

Garlic  Vinegar. — Into  1  quart  of  cold  boiled  vinegar  put  2  oz.  of 
finely  chopped  garlic;  let  stand  2  weeks,  strain,  and  bottle  for  use. 

Shallot  vinegar  can  be  made  the  same  way. 

Cress  vinegar  can  be  made  by  bruising  in  a  mortar  ^  oz.  cress 
seed,  and  letting  it  stand  2  weeks  in  1  quart  of  cold,  boiled  vinegar. 


110      SAUCES  FOK  FISH,  SHELL-FISH  AND  MEATS 

Horseradish  Vinegar. — Put  into  a  bottle  1  quart  vinegar,  ^  lb. 
scraped  horseradish,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  1  teaspoon  sugar;  let 
stand  two  weeks,  shaking  daily;  then  strain  and  bottle.  An  excellent 
relish  for  cold  beef,  etc. 

Lemon  Vinegar. — Put  the  vinegar  in  a  glass  bottle  and  add  lemon 
peel;  the  rind  of  1  lemon  will  flavor  a  pint  of  vinegar;  let  it  stand  2 
weeks,  then  strain  and  bottle. 

Orange  Vinegar  can  be  made  the  same  way. 

Mint  Vinegar. — Pick  nice  fresh  mint  from  the  stalks,  fill  a  bottle 
or'  jar  loosely  with  them,  and  then  fill  it  full  with  vinegar;  cover 
closely  to  exclude  the  air,  and  let  stand  3  weeks;  then  strain,  put 
into  small  bottles,  and  cork  tightly.  Excellent  for  roast  meats,  cold 
meats,  soups,  etc. 

Parsley  vinegar  can  be  prepared  the  same  way,  the  principle  be- 
ing merely  to  let  the  herb  soak  in  the  vinegar  until  its  flavor  is  ex- 
tracted. 

Onion  Vinegar.— Mince  6  large  onions  and  add  a  tablespoon  of 
salt,  letting  them  stand  for  5  or  6  hours.  Take  1  quart  of  vinegar, 
and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  pour  over  the  onions;  put  in  a  jar,  tie 
down  the  cover  and  let  steep  for  a  fortnight;  then  strain  and  bottle. 
This  gives  an  onion  flavor  to  meat  sauces  and  gravies,  when  liked, 
without  the  trouble  of  cooking  onions  for  each  dinner. 

Tarragon  Vinegar. — Take  a  handful  of  tarragon  leaves  just  before 
the  plant  begins  to  bloom,  and  cover  them  with  the  best  cider  or 
wine  vinegar  (a  quart  is  as  much  as  would  be  needed  for  a  year  in  a 
small  family ) ;  let  the  leaves  steep  in  the  vinegar  for  a  week,  turning 
them  every  day;  then  strain,  and  bottle  tightly.  This  is  good  in 
sauces  for  boiled  fish  or  poultry. 

The  Taebagon  is  a  hardy  plant  which  grows  in  light,  dry- 
ish soil.  It  is  a  native  of  Siberia,  and  belongs  to  the  order 
Compositae.  It  has  smooth  leaves,  of  a  bright  green  color, 
which  are  agreeable  to  the  taste,  and  are  used  principally  for 
making  the  tarragon  vinegar. 

Other  Flavored  Vinegars.— J5Zacfc  Pepper  Vinegar, 
Caper  Vinegar,  Capsicum  Vinegar,  Ginger  Vine- 
gar, Red  Rose  Vinegar,  Curry  Vinegar,  Truffle 
Vinegar,  White  Pepper  Vinegar,  and  several  oth- 
ers can  be  made  by  steeping  about  1  oz.  of  the  arti- 
cle in  1  pint  of  good  vinegar  for  2  weeks,  to  ex-  tabbaqon. 
tract  its  flavor;  then  strain  and  bottle.  Celery  Seed 
vinegar  is  made  the  same  way,  but  first  crush  the  seeds.  Using  a 
little  more  of  any  article  increases  the  strength. 


MEATS. 


THE  PROCESSES  AND  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING. 

"To  be  a  good  cook  means  the  economy  of  our  great'grandmothers,  and  the 
science  of  the  modern  chemist." — Ruskin. 

EFORE  taking  up  the  subject  of  cooking  meats,  etc.,  it  may 
be  of  both  interest  and  profit  to  our  readers  to  explain  some 
of  the  fundamental  principles  which  underlie  the  processes 
of  cookery.  It  is  a  lamentable  fact  that  of  the  great  multi- 
tude of  people  who  daily  prepare  food  for  human  consumption,  very 
many  have  no  idea  of  the  principles  involved.  And  yet  these  prin- 
ciples are  quite  simple,  and  can  be  easily  comprehended,  and  if  they 
were  well  understood,  immense  amounts  of  food  might  be  saved 
which  are  now  spoiled  in  the  cooking  and  thus  rendered  both  unpal- 
atable and  indigestible. 

BROILING  OR  GRILLING — To  broil  successfully  put  meat  on  a 
broiler  or  gridiron,  put  it  over  the  fire,  and  heat  it  suddenly  to  crust 
the  outside  and  keep  in  the  juices.  Fibres  of  meat  are  surrounded 
by  water  holding  in  solution  albumen  and  certain  soluble  salts  which 
are  of  the  highest  value  as  food.  Albumen  is  soluble  in  cold  water, 
it  begins  to  coagulate  at  145°,  sets  into  a  jelly  at  160°  and  becomes  a 
tough  opaque  mass  at  212°.  When  suddenly  heated  this  albumen 
near  the  surface  coagulates  and  forms  a  thin  film  or  crust  which 
will  hold  in  the  other  nutritive  juices.  The  crust  should,  if  pos- 
sible, be  formed  all  over  the  surface  of  the  meat,  and  not  on  one 
side  alone.  Do  not  stick  a  fork  or  anything  else  into  meat  to  see 
if  it  is  done,  as  that  will  form  holes  and  let  out  the  juice. 

If  the  article  is  dipped  in  melted  fat  before  putting  it  on  the 
gridiron,  it  will  help  set  the  surface  albumen  quickly.  If  it  is  very 
lean,  or  there  is  but  little  fat,  it  is  well  to  draw  it  through  a  little 
melted  butter  or  oil  on  a  plate.  For  fish,  it  would  be  well  to  always 
do  this,  and  the  fish  (not  meat)  may  be  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pep- 
per before  being  dipped  in  the  oil.  Fish  is  also  floured  to  prevent 
its  sticking  to  the  gridiron. 

When  the  meat  is  browned  all  over,  and  ceases  to  feel  sjDongy,  it 
is  done.  A  little  experience  will  show  just  the  right  time  to  stop  the 
broiling;  then  allow  it  to  rest  for  1  minute  on  a  very  hot  plate,  and 
serve.     Do  not  put  any  salt  on  the  meat  while  it  is  cooking;   the 

111 


112  MEATS 

seasoning  should  be  put  on  the  meat  after  it  is  put  on  the  hot  plat- 
ter. Kemember,  therefore,  that  the  rules  for  broiling  are  always  the 
same,  viz.:  a  hot  fire  at  ^rs/  with  a  hot  gridiron  well  greased;  fre- 
quent turning;  no  holes  made  to  see  if  the  meat  is  done  and  so  let 
out  the  juices.  Also  remember,  that  the  smaller  the  article,  the  hot- 
ter the  fire  necessary,  and  that  for  larger  ones  a  more  moderate  fire  is 
needed,  or  hold  it  further  away  from  the  fire. 

BAKING  AND  ROASTING.— The  first  object  is  to  harden  the 
surface  albumen,  and  so  imprison  the  juices  of  the  meat  the  same  as 
in  broiling.  To  do  this,  the  fire  and  utensils  must  be  very  hot  at 
first,  and  the  heat  can  afterwards  be  lessened  by  cooling  the  oven. 
The  smaller  the  joint,  the  higher  the  temperature  to  which  it  should 
be  exposed,  while  the  larger  the  joint,  the  smaller  the  fire,  lest  it 
should  be  burnt  outside  before  it  is  cooked  enough  inside;  but  it 
should  be  hot  at  first  and  cooler  afterwards.  If  the  oven  is  only 
warm  at  first,  the  surface  albumen  will  not  be  coagulated,  the  juices 
will  escape,  and  the  damage  cannot  afterwards  be  repaired.  In  a 
perfectly  roasted  joint  the  outside  albumen  should  be  thoroughly 
hardened,  but  inside,  the  heat  should  only  reach  the  stage  which 
swells  and  softens  the  fibrin.  If  cooked  more  than  this,  the  fibre 
becomes  tough  and  separates  into  bundles  which  resist  the  teeth  and 
digestive  organs. 

Basting — It  is  very  important  that  the  meat  should  be  frequently 
basted — say  every  10  to  20  minutes —  and  do  it  quickly,  so  as  not  to 
keep  the  oven  door  open  longer  than  necessary.  The  drippings  from 
the  meat  are  the  best  thing  with  which  to  baste  it;  some  cooks  add 
some  beef  drippings.  Owing  to  the  heat  of  the  oven,  the  outside 
surface  soon  becomes  dry,  and  basting  the  meat  covers  it  over  with  a 
thin  film  of  fat  which  assists  in  imparting  heat,  while  it  checks  the 
evaporation  of  the  juices.  Water  is  sometimes  put  in  the  drippings 
pan  to  baste  with,  but  it  should  be  remembered  that  the  water  can- 
not be  heated  above  212°,  while  280°  or  more  is  needed  for  proper 
baking;  so  that  water  should  not  be  put  in  the  pan  at  first.  Use 
beef  drippings  or  fat  from  the  meat  itself  at  first,  and  add  a  little 
water  later,  if  it  is  used.  If  a  frothed  surface  is  desired,  flour  may 
be  dredged  upon  it  every  time  it  is  basted.  When  you  baste  it,  look 
at  the  joint  and  see  if  one  side  is  more  brown  than  the  other;  if  so, 
turn  it  around;  also,  it  is  well  very  often  to  turn  it  over.  All  game 
and  poultry  requires  a  hot,  clear  fire,  frequent  basting,  and  should  be 
sent  to  the  table  direct  from  roasting.  It  should  not  be  finished 
long  before  it  is  wanted,  and  then  "  kept  hot." 

A  basin  of  water  in  the  oven  will  produce  steam  which  will 


THE  PROCESSES  AND  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING    IIB 

check  the  tendency  to  scorch  and  dry  the  meat.  Hot,  dry  air  is 
thirsty  for  water  and  will  absorb  it  eagerly  from  any  moist  substance 
with  which  it  comes  in  contact,  but  if  the  air  is  kept  moist  by  keep- 
ing a  pan  of  water  in  the  oven,  the  tendency  is  overcome;  water  in 
the  dripping=pan  does  the  same  thing.  This,  however,  should  not  be 
relied  on  as  a  substitute  for  having  the  oven  hot  at  first  and  cooler 
afterwards.  Do  not  put  in  the  water  until  after  the  strong  heat  at 
first  has  set  the  surface  albumen  of  the  meat.  It  is  better  not  to  use 
water  with  meat  which  is  desired  rare,  or  with  small  cuts,  but  only 
for  large  roasts  which  require  long,  slow  cooking. 

BOILING. — To  properly  boil  meat  is  quite  an  art,  and  the  best 
method  is  as  follows:  Meat  to  be  eaten  should  be  plunged  at  once 
into  boiling  water,  as  that  coagulates  the  albumen  on  or  near  the  sur- 
face and  forms  a  thin  film  (perhaps  not  thicker  than  cotton  cloth), 
and  this  film  holds  the  juices  inside  the  meat.  After  this  the  water 
should  merely  simmer  until  the  meat  is  heated  through  to  the  center 
sufl&ciently  to  cook  it,  but  not  enough  to  harden  the  albumen  inside. 
About  160°  to  180°  is  right  for  the  simmering  water.  Cooked  in 
this  way  the  meat  should  cook  longer,  however,  than  by  the  old 
method  of  rapid  boiling,  but  it  will  be  much  more  digestible  and 
better. 

If  there  are  any  exceptions  to  the  above  principles  for  boiling 
meat,  they  are  in  the  case  of  sinewy  and  tendonous  meat  when  gela- 
tine is  abundant,  for  to  make  gelatine  soft  and  eatable,  long  contin- 
ued boiling  is  necessary.  Thus  calf's  head  and  feet,  shins  of  beef, 
knuckles  of  veal,  cow  heel,  tripe,  etc.,  are  usually  best  put  into  cold 
water  first,  and  boiled  longer  than  other  meat. 

A  good  practical  method  for  boiling  meat  is  to  put  it  first  into 
boiling  water,  being  sure  to  have  enough  water  to  cover  the  meat. 
Of  course,  putting  a  large  piece  of  cold  meat  into  the  water  will  at 
first  stop  it  from  boiling,  so  keep  it  on  the  fire  a  short  time  (say  10 
minutes)  with  the  lid  on;  then  take  off  the  lid  and  skim  it.  As  soon 
as  the  water  begins  to  boil  thoroughly  again,  the  surface  albumen 
will  be  coagulated;  then  lift  the  kettle  off  the  fire  on  to  the  side  of 
the  range,  so  as  to  stop  the  boiling  at  once.  Leave  it  there  a  short 
time — say  15  to  20  minutes — so  that  the  meat  may  get  hot  clear 
through.  This  will  prevent  the  meat  at  the  finish  from  being  over- 
cooked outside,  and  blue  and  uncooked  in  the  middle.  Then  place  it 
on  the  fire  again  and  let  it  simmer.  The  time  for  simmering  should 
be  from  10  to  12  minutes  for  every  pound  of  meat.  All  the  best  ex- 
perience, however,  agrees  in  this,  that  a  long,  slow  boiling  produces 


114  MEATS 

the  best  results,  so  that  no  exact  rule  can  be  given  as  to  the  time. 
An  even  teaspoon  of  salt  can  be  put  into  the  water  in  which  the  meat 
simmers;  it  is  enough  to  season  the  meat  on  the  outside,  and  more 
can  be  added  when  it  is  eaten,  and,  besides,  most  of  the  meat  sauces 
contain  a  quantity  of  salt  which  serves  as  flavoring. 

After  meat  is  put  into  boiling  water,  a  scum  will  rise  to  the  sur- 
face; this  should  be  skimmed  off  and  thrown  away.  It  is  one  of  the 
very  few  things  in  the  processes  of  cooking  which  should  be  thrown 
away,  as  it  is  wasted  food.  The  scum  is  the  albumen  which  is  drawn 
out  of  the  meat,  coagulated  by  the  heat,  and  rises  to  the  surface. 
Although  the  greater  part  will  rise  at  first,  do  not  fail  to  skim  during 
the  whole  process;  if  any  is  left,  it  will  attach  itself  to  the  meat,  and 
spoil  its  appearance. 

Salt  meat  should  be  put  in  cold  water  after  being  washed  thor- 
oughly  in  fresh  water  or  milk;  the  water  should  then  be  slowly 
brought  up  to  the  simmering  point.  This  will  draw  out  the  salt. 
Remember  that  all  salted  and  dried  meats  should  simmer  slowly,  as 
rapid  boiling  hardens  them.  All  trimmings  of  meat  should  be  used 
in  the  soup^kettle,  or  simmered  in  a  little  water  and  made  into  gravy. 

In  boiling  an  egg,  what  we  want  is  to  set  the  white,  without 
making  the  albumen  tough  and  hard;  the  best  way,  therefore,  is  to 
always  keep  the  water  below  the  boiling  point — nearer  that  of  sim- 
mering water.  Some  people  put  the  egg  in  cold  water  and  take  it  off 
as  soon  as  it  boils.  Others  prefer  to  put  it  first  into  a  sauce=pan  of 
boiling  water,  and  then  take  off  the  pan  and  let  it  cook  as  the  water 
cools.  It  is  a  mistake  to  boil  even  a  hard  boiled  egg  an  instant 
longer  than  is  enough  to  set  the  albumen  in  the  white  and  yolk. 

Recollect  that  vegetables  require  boiling,  and  meat  only  simmer- 
ing; therefore,  you  can  not,  as  a  rule,  boil  vegetables  with  meat  with- 
out spoiling  one  of  them.  Vegetables  should  be  put  into  boiling 
water  at  first,  and  kept  there. 

Flour  foods,  such  as  macaroni,  sago,  rice,  cornflour  and  flour 
puddings,  should  be  kept  all  the  time  in  boiling  water,  in  order  to 
burst  the  starch  granules.  The  mechanical  action  of  fast  bubbling 
water  is  often  useful  here,  partly  in  preventing  the  grains  of  rice, 
etc.,  from  settling  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 

STEWING — This  is  a  process  often  confounded  by  ilhinformed 
people  with  boiling  a  long  time,  and  even  moderately  good  cooks 
often  confound  it  with  "  simmering."  A  stew,  properly  so  called, 
is  when  both  meat  and  juice — that  is,  all  the  liquor — are  eaten  to- 
gether.     Stewing  invariably  requires  a   heat  much  below   that  of 


THE  PROCESSES  AND  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING    115 

boiling  water;  135°  to  160°  is  about  stewing  point.  Whatever  is 
stewed,  parts  with  much  of  its  goodness  to  the  surrounding  liquor, 
which  should  not,  therefore,  be  wasted.  And  yet  it  is  not  desirable 
in  stewing  to  extract  all  the  juices  from  the  meat,  as  is  done  in  mak- 
ing soup  or  beef  =  tea;  part  should  be  barely  coagulated,  and  thus  re- 
tained in  the  meat  in  as  tender  a  condition  as  possible.  To  accom- 
plish this,  a  hain-marie  or  double  boiler  is  an  excellent  thing  to  use. 
If  you  have  not  this,  it  will  be  a  good  idea  to  extemporize  one,  by 
setting  one  dish  inside  another,  something  like  a  carpenter's  glue- 
pot.  A  puddingsbasin,  with  a  wide  projecting  rim,  may  be  set  into 
another  pan  just  large  enough  for  it  to  drop  into  and  rest  upon  its 
rim.  Put  the  meat  into  this  basin,  pour  hot  water  over  it,  and  pour 
hot  water  into  the  outer  basin,  forming  a  "  water  bath;"  then  let  this 
outer  water  boil,  but  very  gently,  so  as  not  to  make  the  inside  basin 
jump  with  its  steam.  Stew  it  thus  for  about  double  the  time  usually 
prescribed,  and  compare  the  result  with  similar  materials  stewed  in 
the  old  way.  ^  The  superiority  will  be  evident.  In  any  event,  even 
if  stewed  on  the  old  plan,  the  water  should  not  hoil  nor  get  near  the 
boiling  point:  keep  the  water  at  150°  to  160°  by  setting  the  dish  at 
the  side  of  the  stove  and  letting  it  quietly  stew.  Less  water  is  used 
than  in  boiling.  A  common  mistake  is  to  put  in  too  much  water. 
The  meat  needs  to  be  barely  covered,  and  cooks  forget  that  at  the 
moderate  heat  of  stewing  there  is  very  little  loss  by  evaporation.  It 
is  the  cheapest  method  of  cooking  that  there  is.  Little  heat  is  re- 
quired, and  therefore  little  fuel  used;  nothing  is  wasted,  and  what- 
ever goes  into  the  pot  comes  out.  No  attention  is  needed  while 
cooking,  and  the  cheapest  and  coarsest  meat  can  be  used. 

This  method  is  peculiarly  adapted  for  all  gelatinous  meat,  such 
knuckles,  heads  and  feet,  and  for  all  tough,  fibrous  meats,  because 
long=continued,  moderate  heat,  with  moisture,  is  the  best  way  of 
bringing  gelatine  and  tough  fiber  into  an  eatable  condition,  and  it 
will  not  only  make  it  eatable  but  palatable.  A  tough  fowl  can  in  this 
manner  be  made  presentable,  better  than  by  any  other.  In  order  to 
prevent  the  extraction  of  all  the  juices  from  the  meat  in  stewing, 
the  best  way  is  to  fry  it  first;  this  gives  it  a  good  color  and  mode- 
rates the  escape  of  the  juices,  which  is  often  very  desirable.  The 
thoughtless  method  of  putting  it  in  an  excess  of  water  and  then  let- 
ting  it  boil  away,  produces  miserable  results. 

In  stewing,  meat  and  vegetables  are  often  cooked  together,  but 
as  the  principles  involved  in  cooking  them  are  difPerent,  and  they  re- 
quire different  treatment,  the  best  plan  is  to  boil  the  vegetables  first. 


118  MEATS 

and  then  use  them  and  their  liquor  for  the  stew.  Some  people  have 
a  prejudice  against  a  "  stew."  If  so,  you  can  dignify  it  by  giving  it 
a  French  name,  and  call  it  a  ragout — but  be  sure  you  pronounce  it 
ra=goo',  not  ra=gowt. 

FRICASSEEINQ.— This  means,  literally,  "  to  fry."  It  is  usually 
applied  to  a  chicken,  rabbit  or  any  small  animal  which  is  cut  up  and 
fried,  either  before  or  after  stewing,  and  served  in  a  well  flavored  sauce. 

FRYING. — There  are  2  ways  of  frying  known  to  cooks  as  (1) 
wet  frying,  sometimes  called  French  frying  or  frying  in  a  kettle  of 
hot  fat;  and  (2)  dry  frying  or  cooking  in  a  frying-pan.  The  best  re- 
sults are  undoubtedly  obtained  by  the  first  method,  although  it  is 
little  used  in  this  country.     We  will  describe  the  2  methods: 

To  fry  anything  by  the  first,  or  French  method,  is  to  cook  it  by 
immersing  it  in  very  hot  fat.  In  fact,  just  as  in  boiling  we  must  let 
the  water  cover  what  is  boiled,  so  in  this  method  we  must  let  the  fat 
cover  what  is  fried.  The  same  fat  will  do  over  and  over  again,  so 
that  this  method  is  not  as  expensive  as  many  people  imagine.  Food 
fried  in  this  way  comes  out  quite  dry,  and  without  any  of  the  greasy 
moisture  of  frying-pan  cookery.  An  iron  sauce=pan  or  small  kettle 
must  be  used,  as  the  heat  of  the  fat  melts  the  solder  of  a  tin  i)an. 
The  rules  for  good  frying  are:  (1)  The  fat  must  be  sufficiently 
deep  to  fully  cover  the  article.  (2)  The  fat  must  be  sufiiciently 
hot,  in  fact,  it  should  smoke.  (3)  When  anything  is  floured  before 
it  is  fried,  it  must  not  be  floured  until  the  last  moment  before  it  is 
plunged  into  the  fat.  (4)  When  anything  is  fried  that  has  been 
egged  and  bread^crumbed,  it  is  best  to  egg  and  bread-crumb  it  some 
little  time  before  it  is  fried.  (5)  Shut  the  kitchen  door  and  open 
the  window  a  little  to  avoid  scenting  up  the  house;  this  is  a  practical 
point  which  should  be  remembered. 

Now  a  few  hints:  The  exterior  of  the  substance  to  be  fried 
should  be  as  dry  as  possible;  by  this  means  we  get  a  good  color,  and 
less  bubbling  is  caused.  Fish  can  be  rubbed  in  flour;  vegetables 
with  a  cloth;  meat  should  not  be  washed.  Before  dropping  anything 
that  contains  much  water  into  hot  fat,  lift  the  kettle  ofp  of  the  stove, 
as  the  fat  is  liable  to  bubble  over  and  catch  fire.  Most  things  that 
are  fried  are  covered  with  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  flour  and  milk,  or 
batter,  in  order  that  a  crust  may  be  formed  round  them  to  keep  the 
juice  in  and  the  fat  out;  the  essential  thing  is  to  cover  them  com- 
pletely and  leave  no  crack.  It  is  best  to  warm  the  articles  a  little 
before  putting  them  in  to  fry,  as,  if  they  are  to  cold,  or  if  too  many 
are  put  in  together,  they  will  chill  the  fat,  so  that  it  will  soak  into 


THE  PEOCESSES  AND  PRINCIPLES  OP  COOKING    117 

them.  On  taking  any  fried  article  out  of  the  fat,  lay  it  to  drain  on  a 
sieve,  bottom  up,  or  on  a  very  hot  cloth,  or  best  of  all,  on  a  sheet  of 
blotting  paper.  The  hot  fat  being  extremely  fluid,  will  drain  off  and 
leave  the  article  free  from  grease.  Never  pile  up  on  top  of  each  oth- 
er articles  which  are-  fried.  Bread  crumbs  should  be  very  fine;  if 
coarse,  grease  will  adhere  to  or  be  absorbed  by  them.  They  should 
take  a  fine,  yellow  color,  being  slightly  charred  or  toasted  by  the 
high  temperature  to  which  they  are  exposed.  Things  well  fried  are 
not  greasy,  but  quite  dry. 

Frying  food  thus  is  not  adapted  to  materials  which  require  slow 
cooking  at  a  low  temperature,  because  it  heats  the  surface  much  be- 
yond the  temperature  of  boiling,  and,  if  prolonged,  meat  is  heated 
clear  through  and  toughened.  Croquettes  and  similar  preparations 
of  cold  meat  are  much  nicer  cooked  in  this  way,  and  many  kinds  of 
fish  are  greatly  improved  by  this  process,  while  chops  and  cutlets 
which  are  first  egged  and  bread- crumbed,  are  delicious  thus  cooked. 

If  many  articles  are  to  be  fried,  reheat  the  fat  occasionally  to 
keep  it  hot  enough.  Using  fat  which  is  not  hot  enough  is  a  com- 
mon mistake;  keep  the  fat  smoking  hot.  There  is  much  more  danger 
of  not  having  it  hot  enough  than  too  hot. 

It    is    advisable,   when    possible,   to   use  a  wire   frying-basket. 
This  does  away  with  much  handling,  and  lifts  all  the   things   out   at 
the  same  time.     A  basket  should  not  be  used  for  fritters,  which  stick 
to  the  basket,  and  the  articles  in   the  bas- 
ket should  not  touch  each   other.     As   a 
basket  expands  with  heat,  it  should  not  fit 
the  x)an  very  tightly;  it  should  not  touch 
the  bottom  of  the   pan.     If   you   have   no 
basket  use  an  iron  spoon,   as   tin  or   Brit-  basket  foe  frying. 

annia  metal  will  melt  if  the  fat  is  very  hot. 

Grease  the  basket  by  dipping  it  into  the  hot  fat  before  putting  the 
articles  into  it,  and  lay  them  in  so  as  to  keep  them  from  touching 
each  other. 

Fats  and  oils  may  be  heated  much  hotter  than  water,  but  some 
burn  much  more  easily  than  others.  About  350°  to  400°  is  a  suit- 
able temperature  for  use;  it  can  be  higher;  for  some  things  which  re- 
quire slow  cooking,  it  should  be  lower.  It  is  better  to  have  the  tem- 
perature high  at  first,  lowering  it  afterwards.  Remember  that  put- 
ting anything  cold  into  fat  to  cook,  lowers  its  temperature  someM^hat. 

The  temperature  of  fat  can  be  obtained  with  a  thermometer,  but 
without  that,  the  following  tests  offer  some  guide:     (1)     Drop   in  a 


118  MEATS 

few  drops  of  water;  if  the  fat  bubbles  thereupon,  it  is  over  212°;  if  it 
bubbles  very  smartly,  it  is  over  300°,  (2)  Drop  in  a  piece  of  bread 
and  take  it  out  in  |  minute;  if  the  bread  is  then  crisp,  the  fat  is 
about  350°  or  more.  (3)  The  more  violent  the  bubbling  when  any- 
thing is  put  in,  the  hotter  the  fat,  (4)  A  thin,  filmy,  blue  smoke 
arises  when  the  fat  is  fit  for  frying;  after  that,  if  the  fat  is  further 
heated,  it  becomes  thicker,  until  the  fat  is  burning,  when  there  is  a 
dense  cloud.  (5)  Fat,  unless  it  has  left  off  bubbling  and  is  quite 
still,  is  never  hot  enough  for  frying.  These  rules  are  true  of  all  fats, 
and  more  or  less  of  all  frying. 

The  reason  that  fat  crackles  when  it  is  first  put  on  is,  that  there 
is  generally  w^ater  in  it.  This  water,  being  heavier  than  fat,  sinks  to 
the  bottom  and  is  converted  into  steam,  and  these  bubbles  of  steam 
escaping  up  through  the  fat  makes  the  bubbling.  If  not  moist  with 
water,  it  would  not  crackle.  When  the  crackling  ceases,  it  shows 
simply  that  the  fat  is  hotter  than  boiling  water,  and  that  the  water  is 
evaporated. 

When  you  have  finished  using  the  fat,  pour  it  into  a  basin  con- 
taining  some  hot  water.  Have  more  water  than  fat,  and  pour  the  fat 
in  gradually,  if  it  is  very  hot,  or  else  it  will  suddenly  create  a  volume 
of  steam;  then  agitate  the  fat  a  little,  and  let  it  stand  until  it  is  cold. 
When  you  next  use  the  fat,  take  it  out  in  one  large  cake,  and  scrape 
the  part  next  to  the  water,  which  will  contain  impurities.  The  fat 
should  also  be  occasionally  strained  while  warm. 

With  regard  to  the  best  fat  to  use,  it  may  be  said  that,  while 
olive  oil  is  generally  considered  the  best,  it  is  too  expensive  for  gen- 
eral use,  and  the  taste  is  not  liked  by  some  people.  Pure  cotton  seed 
oil  answers  well,  and  it  has  but  little  odor.  Mutton  fat  or  drippings 
is  not  suitable,  as  it  is  apt  to  leave  a  tallowy  taste  and  smell,  and  it 
cools  quickly.  For  every  day  use,  lard  is  best,  or,  lard  mixed  with 
clarified  beef  suet,  or  the  drippings  from  roast  beef,  pork  or  veal. 
We  think,  however,  that  some  of  the  vegetable  oils  will  soon  largely 
supplant  the  animal  fats  for  frying,  and  most  other  cooking  pur- 
poses. There  are  many  advantages  and  few  objections  to  their  use. 
The  fat  can  be  used  over  and  over  again. 

It  is  generally  believed  that  for  this  method  of  frying,  several 
different  supplies  of  fat  are  needed,  one  for  meat,  one  for  fish,  and  so 
on,  but  if  the  fat  is  properly  handled  and  clarified,  it  will  be  found 
that  this  idea  is  exaggerated. 

Fat  for  frying  can  be  clarified  by  cutting  it  up  into  small  piec- 
es, and  putting  it  into  the  sauce=pan  with  just  enough  water  to  pre- 
vent its  burning,  and  then  heat  it  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  bottom 


THE  PKOCESSES  AND  PKINCIPLES  OF  COOKING    119 

can  be  seen,  then  it  should  be  strained;  or  heat  it  in  [a  frying-pan  to 
285°  to  300°  F.,  and  then  very  cautiously  sprinkle  upon  it  small 
quantities  of  water.  The  steam  carries  off  the  volatile  fatty  acids 
which  produce  the  rancidity  in  such  as  fish  oils,  and  also  removes  the 
neutral,  offensive  fatty  matters  that  are  decomposable  by  heat. 

CoTTOLENE.— This  is  a  mixture  of  cottonseed  oil  and  beef  suet,  and  nothing 
SiSe.  It  is  an  excellent  substitute  for  butter  or  lard  for  shortening,  or  for  other 
fats  for  frying.  It  can  be  used  for  shortening  in  any  recipe  calling  for  butter  or 
lard,  but  use  only  about  two^thirds  as  much  of  it.  When  used  for  frying  it  should 
be  heated  very  hot  before  the  articles  to  be  fried  are  put  into  it,  as  we  elsewhere 
explain  about  all  fats  used  for  frying  (see  "Frying"),  but  cottolene  will  not 
"smoke"  as  other  fat  does,  so  test  it  first  by  dropping  in  a  piece  of  bread,  and  if 
that  browns  in  j^  minute,  it  is  hot  enough  for  use.  No  further  general  directions 
are  necessary  for  using  it. 

We  have  elsewhere  stated  that  we  believe  the  day  is  near  at  hand  when  the 
vegetable  oils  will  largely  supplant  the  animal  fats  for  all  cooking  purposes,  and 
we  believe  the  change  to  be  desirable.  This  is  a  move  in  that  direction.  Cotton- 
seed oil  is  healthful,  nutritious,  and  its  use  is  unobjectionable. 

CoTOBUET. — This  is  a  preparation  similar  to  cottolene,  but  made  by  another 
manufacturer.  It  is  80  per  cent,  cottonseed  oil  and  20  per  cent,  beef  suet.  All 
that  we  have  said  above  about  cottolene  will  apply  to  cotosuet,  or,  in  fact,  to  any 
similar  preparation  of  the  same  ingredients  such  as  Vegetole. 

If  an  accident  occurs  when  frying,  do  not  throw  water  on  the 
flames,  as  that  turns  to  steam;  smother  them  instead  with  a  thick 
cloth  or  strip  of  carpet. 

The  Philosophy  of  Frying. — This  consists  largely  in  the  fact  that 
different  fluids  will  receive  different  amounts  of  heat — water  boiling 
at  212°,  beyond  which  it  cannot  be  heated  in  an  open  kettle,  while 
fat  or  oil  will  go  to  560°  to  600°.  Water  dissolves  and  extracts  the 
juices  of  meats  submitted  to  its  action,  but  in  fats  the  juices  are  pre- 
served, for  they  are  insoluble  in  oil,  and  substances  submitted  to  its 
action  when  it  is  very  hot,  harden,  assume  a  more  or  less  deep  color, 
and  finally  become  carbonized.  If  the  fat  is  at  the  right  tempera- 
ture, it  will  instantly  harden  the  surface  albumen,  but  if  the  tem- 
perature is  too  low,  the  fat  will  soak  into  the  article,  instead  of  draw- 
ing out  the  juices  as  water  does. 

To  Fry  by  the  Second  Plan  we  Mentioned  above,  or  Dry  Frying  (the 
French  call  it  Saut6ing)  the  following  directions  may  be  given.  To 
fry  meat  properly  in  this  way,  requires  care  and  expedition,  or  the 
operation  will  be  a  failure,  and,  as  in  the  case  of  broiling,  it  must  be 
done  the  last  thing  while  preparing  the  meal;  everything  should  be 
in  place  on  the  table,  excepting  the  vegetables  in  their  hot  dishes, 
and  if  mutton  or  lamb  is  to  be  fried,  the  plates,  even  in  warm  weath- 
er, must  be  hot,  as  the  fat  chills  rapidly  after  being  taken  from  the 
fire.  Have  the  cutlets,  steaks  or  chops  all  ready  for  the  pan  before- 
hand, so  as  to  lose  no  time  at  the  last;  the  slices  should  be  of  the 
right  size  to  serve.     If  beef  is  to  be  fried,  a  little  of  its  own  fat,  cut 


120  MEATS 

in  bits,  should  be  melted  and  sizzling  hot  in  the  pan — on  this,  much 
depends.  Put  the  pieces  of  meat  in  the  hot  fat,  add  no  salt,  as  that 
draws  the  juices,  and  fry  as  fast  as  possible,  turning  and  tossing  the 
meat  to  keep  it  from  burning;  do  not  leave  it  a  moment.  Have  a 
hot  platter  in  readiness  and  take  up  the  meat  when  well  browned  on 
both  sides  (which  will  be  in  less  than  5  minutes)  dust  on  it  a  little 
pepper,  if  liked,  and  spread  it  with  butter,  with  a  very  little  salt 
sprinkled  over  it  very  evenly,  and  send  it  to  the  table  as  hot  as  possi- 
ble. Meat  done  in  this  way  will  be  tender  and  juicy,  like  well 
broiled  steak.  A  long,  slow  simmering  of  fresh  meat,  salted  in  the 
pan,  will  make  it  hard  and  indigestible. 

Fresh  pork,  beef,  mutton  and  lamb  should  each  be  cooked  in  its 
own  fresh  fat;  veal  is  so  dry  and  lean  that  it  is  usually  fried  in  the 
fat  from  salt  pork,  and  afterwards  seasoned  as  above.  Other  meats, 
if  they  are  lean,  can  be  fried  in  the  fat  of  a  single  slice  of  salt  pork, 
rather  than  in  butter,  which  burns  if  brought  to  the  right  heat  to 
cook  meat  without  losing  the  juices.  Only  enough  fat  is  required  to 
keep  the  meat  from  sticking  to  the  pan;  if  there  is  more,  it  can  be 
poured  over  the  meat,  or  thickened,  and  with  a  little  water  added, 
used  for  gravy. 

BRAISING.  —This  is  a  way  of  cooking  by  the  action  of  heat 
above  as  well  as  below  the  article  cooked — the  effect  is  somewhat 
similar  to  stewing.  A  braising=pan  has  a  deep  cover,  on  which  live 
coals  are  placed.  The  pan  is  air-tight,  and  as  all  evaporation  is  thus 
precluded,  the  food  imbibes  whatever  flavor  the  cook  may  wish  to 
give  it,  in  order  to  effect  which,  she  must  place  in  the  pan  with  the 
meat,  whatever  vegetables,  etc.,  her  recipe  may  direct.  The  ingredi- 
ents should  be  very  well  proportioned,  and  the  stewing  should  go  on 
very  slowly.  It  is  not  a  common  method  of  cooking  in  America, 
although  more  practiced  in  Europe. 

TO  STEAM. — Cooking  by  steam  in  private  families  is  not  as 
generally  practiced  as  it  might  be.  The  steamer  fits  tightly  on  a  pan 
Or  kettle,  and  as  the  water  boils,  the  steam  fills  the  steamer  and  cooks 
the  articles  in  it.  A  tough  fowl,  filled  with  a  stufiing  of  bread 
crumbs,  etc.,  and  steamed  for  2  hours  or  so,  will  be  made  quite  ten- 
der. Fish  and  oysters  cooked  in  this  way  are  delicious.  Stale  bread 
and  biscuit  steamed  5  or  6  minutes,  is  made  fresh  and  good.  Plum 
cake  steamed  8  hours  and  then  baked  1  hour,  is  better  than  when 
baked  in  the  ordinary  way.  Potatoes  are  often  steamed.  In  steam- 
ing ]Duddings,  etc.,  do  not  use  water  in  which  anything  else  has  been 
cooked,  as  it  will  give  them  an  unpleasant  flavor.     Articles  being 


THE  PHOCESSES  AND  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING     121 


steamed  cannot  burn,  but  do  not  let  the  fire  get  so  low  that  the  water 
stops  boiling  for  an  instant,  or  the  supply  of  steam  will  be  lessened, 
to  the  detriment  of  the  article  being  cooked, 

SAUTEING. — This    is  the   French   name   for   frying   anything 

quickly  in  a  small  pan,  with  a  very  little  dripping,  oil  or  fat,  doing 

one  side  at  a  time.     It  is  the  same  as  the  dry  frying  which  we  have 

previously  described.     The  art  consists  in  having  the  pan  and  fat 

very  hot  at  the  start,  and  in  doing  it  very  quickly,  to  save  the  juices 

and  succulence  in  the  meat. 

♦\  TO  LARD. — This  consists  in  sticking  bacon  or  other  specified 

articles    into    poultry,   meat,    etc. 

It  is  done  with  a  larding  needle. 

It  is  sometimes  thought  a  difficult 

operation,  but  is  really  exceeding- 

^ly    easy.      It  improves  dry,   lean 

leats,  and  though  it  needs  to  be 

lone  neatly,  to  look  well,  a  little 


JB  Ig.  :i.      METHOD  OF  LAEDING  MEAT. 

pr^tice  teaches  this  readily.     The  method  is  to  cut  fat  bacon  into 

nar^^ow  strips  of  equal  length  and  thickness;  for  poultry  and  game, 

the^  should  be  about  2  inches  long,  ^  inch  thick,  ^  inch  wide;  for 

fillets^  of  beef,  loins  of  veal,  or 

other  solid    joints,    the    same  ^ 

length   and   ^   inch    thick  and 


Fig.  1.       LAKDOONS. 


Fig.  3.     Ueded  neok  of  mutton.  Fig.  4.     labded  tubkey. 

wide.  Nitice  that  for  all  white  meats,  the  bacon  used  must  be  cured 
without  s^tpetre,  as  that  tinges  meats  red  in  cooking.  Put  each  of 
these  strip\  of  bacon  (which  is  called  a  "lardoon")  into  a  ''larding 
needle,"  an\  pass  the  point  of  this  through  enough  of  the  fowl  or 
joint  to  holQthe  lardoon  safely;  then  draw  the  needle  through,  leav- 
ing the  bacoy  in  the  meat,  with  both  ends  projecting  equally.  Do 
this  in  regul^-  rows,  and  at  equal  distances,  until  the  meat  is  covered 


122  MEATS 

with  a  regular  pattern.  Generally  the  breasts  only  of  poultry  and 
feathered  game  are  larded,  and  the  backs,  or  backs  and  thighs  of  rab- 
bits and  hares.  With  soft  meat,  like  poultry  it  is  well  to  first 
dip  the  part  to  be  larded  in  boiling  water  for  a  moment,  as  that  im- 
parts greater  firmness  to  it,  and  makes  it  hold  the  lardoons  better. 

DAUBING. — This  is  somewhat  like  larding,  but  the  strips  of 
pork  are  pushed  entirely  through  the  meat  from  side  to  side,  instead 
of  being  merely  inserted  near  the  surface.  By  this  means  the  fat 
and  flavor  of  the  pork  penetrates  the  inside  of  the  meat,  giving  it  a 
flavor  which  some  people  relish.  Cut  the  fat  pork  into  strips  as  for 
larding,  but  a  little  thicker,  and  long  enough  to  a  little  more  than  go 
through  the  meat,  projecting  a  little  to  each  side.  A  hole  is  first 
punched  clear  through  the  meat  with  a  steel  instrument,  and  then 
the  strip  of  fat  pork  is  thrust  through  with  the  larding  needle  or  fin- 
gers. Daubing  is  usually  apialied  to  a  thick  piece  of  beef  or  veal 
The  flavor  of  the  ijork  may  also  be  obtained,  however,  by  laying  it  oi 
the  top  of  the  meat,  leaving  it  on  while  cooking,  and  removing  't 
when  done. 

BONING. — This  is  usually  done  by  the  butcher,  and  means  littr- 
ally  making  the  joint  or  fowl,  or  whatever  it  is,  boneless. 

BARDING — This  is  practiced  on  poultry  and  game  and  consists 
in  fastening  a  thin,  large  slice  of  fat  salt  pork  on  the  breast ;  ii  an- 
swers the  purpose  of  basting. 

GLAZING — This  consists  in  covering  certain  meats  with  a  thin, 
golden^brown  paste  (a  glaze)  made  by  boiling  down  rich  soup  stock. 
It  is  used  to  give  meats  which  have  not  been  colored  by  cooling,  a 
glossy  surface,  and  a  brown,  roasted  appearance. 

TO  EGG  AND  BREAD=CRUMB — The  best  way  to  make  breads 
crumbs  is  to  rub  stale  bread  through  a  wire  sieve,  because  th«  breads 
crumbs  should  be  very  fine.  A  wire  sieve  is  a  necessity  n  every 
home  where  economy  is  considered  or  good  cooking  desved.  If 
the  bread=crumbs  are  to  be  used  for  meat  or  fish,  a  little  p*pper  and 
salt  can  be  added;  if  for  sweet  dishes,  add  a  little  sugar.  The  eggs 
should  be  beaten  up  lightly;  a  teaspoon  of  water  to  each  egg  helps 
in  beating  it  thin.  The  rule  is,  to  dip  the  article  that  is  b  be  egged 
and  bread= crumbed  first  in  the  crumbs  to  dry  it;  now  et  it  dry  a 
little,  then  dip  it  in  the  beaten  up  egg,  drain  it,  and  then  roll  it 
again  in  the  bread  crumbs  and  leave  it  in  the  crumbs  uxtil  it  is  put 
in  the  smoking  hot  fat.  It  is  best  to  egg  and  breachcrunb  anything 
some  time  before  it  is  fried.  The  dryer  the  crumbs  tie  better  if  a 
good  color  is  desired. 


THE  PROCESSES  AND  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING    123 

The  philosophy  of  this  process  is  that  the  egg,  being  albumen, 
when  put  into  the  hot  fat,  hardens  into  a  thin,  tough  film,  which 
keeps  the  fat  from  penetrating,  and  with  meat  and  fish  holds  the 
juices  within  them.  It  is  evident  that  for  this  purpose  every  part 
of  the  surface  should  be  perfectly  covered  with  the  egg,  and  that 
there  should  be  no  cracks  for  the  juice  to  escape  through. 

If  the  egg  and  bread  crumbs  fall  ofp,  it  is  because  the  crumbs 
are  too  coarse;  or  there  is  not  enough  fat  in  the  kettle;  or  it  is  not 
hot  enough,  the  latter  being  often  the  cause. 

DRIPPING — Excepting  the  fat  from  mutton,  lamb,  and  that 
from  boiled  ham  that  has  been  smoked,  "  dripping  "  is  any  fat  tried 
from  cooked  meat.  The  fat  of  salted  pork  is  ready  for  use  as 
soon  as  tried,  and  may  be  poured  from  the  frying=pan  into  the 
bowl  kept  for  that  purpose,  but  the  fat  from  roasted  or  boiled 
meat  contains  more  or  less  water  and  must  be  heated  in  the 
frying=pan  until  all  the  water  has  evaporated,  and  then  strained 
into  an  earthen  vessel.  If  more  dripping  is  saved  in  this 
way  than  is  needed  for  shortening  or  for  re^cooking  potatoes, 
it  can  be  strained  into  the  kettle  for  frying  doughnuts.  An  econ- 
omical cook  never  allows  good  fat  to  spoil.  The  fat  from  baked 
sausages  is  excellent  for  re= warming  potatoes,  but  will  not  do  for 
the  doughnut  kettle.  The  fat  from  poultry  may  be  used  very  soon 
after  trying  out,  but  it  becomes  rancid  much  sooner  than  the  fat  of 
beef  and  pork.  The  fat  of  mutton  and  lamb,  with  that  from  the 
boiled  smoked  ham,  is  only  fit  for  the  soap^man. 

When  the  drippings  to  be  clarified  for  use  are  smoking  hot  in 
the  frying-pan,  all  unpleasant  odors  (like  that  of  fat  from  corned 
beef)  can  be  removed  by  slicing  1  or  2  raw  potatoes  into  the  pan 
and  leaving  them  until  fried  crisp;  the  potatoes  absorb  all  unpleas- 
ant flavors. 

Thermometers. — We  wonder  that  no  one  has  ever  invented  a  good 
thermometer  to  be  used  when  cooking,  and  in  the  kitchen.  We 
know  of  none  now.  Mrs.  M.  H.  Abel  says  she  fastened  a  thermo- 
meter to  a  cork,  having  the  bulb  project  below,  and  protecting  it 
with  a  piece  of  wood;  thus  arranged,  the  cork  would  float  on  the 
water,  and  the  temperature  of  any  article  boiling  or  stewing  could 
be  determined.  She  also  used  it  to  test  the  oven  by  hanging  it  on  a 
wire  frame.  The  present  "method  of  guessing  at  the  temperature 
when  cooking  is  very  unsatisfactory,  and  must  give  way  before  long 
to  a  more  exact  and  scientific  plan. 

HINTS — In  cooking  meat,  it  will  be  an  assistance  to  remem- 
ber that  freshly  killed  meat  requires  more  time  to  cook  than  that 


124  MEATS 

which  has  been  kej)t;  also  that  meat  needs  cooking  rather  longer  in 
cold  weather  than  in  hot. 

To  Make  Tough  Meat  Tender — Soak  it  in  vinegar  and  water;  if  the 
piece  is  very  large,  soak  it  about  12  hours;  for  10  lbs.  of  beef,  use 
about  3  quarts  of  water  and  |  pint  of  vinegar,  and  soak  it  for  6  or  7 
hours.  If  the  vinegar  is  not  very  strong,  a  very  tough  piece  can  be 
soaked  3  or  4  days  in  summer,  and  twice  as  long  in  wnnter  to  advan- 
tage, and  spices  may  be  added  if  liked.  Or  the  meat  can  be  brushed 
over  with  vinegar  and  let  stand  with  that  on  ^  to  one  day.  The 
tough  fibre  is  cut  and  softened  by  the  acid.  Sour  milk  is  used  for 
the  same  purpose,  by  foreign  cooks,  the  lactic  acid  of  the  milk  acting 
the  same  as  the  acetic  acid  of  the  vinegar.  The  meat  should  be  im- 
mersed in  the  sour  milk,  which  should  be  changed  every  day,  and 
thoroughly  washed  off  before  cooking  the  meat.  Meat  is  also  "hung" 
to  make  it  tender.  Stewing  also  makes  many  tough  mea<vs  tender; 
see  the  preceeding  article  on  "  Stewing." 

Washing  Meat. — Meat  purchased  from  a  good  butcher  should  not 
need  washing  before  being  cooked;  all  that  Mali  be  necessary  will  be 
to  dampen  a  cloth  with  cold  water  and  wipe  it  off;  or  scrape  it  with 
a  dull  knife  to  remove  splinters  of  bone,  sand,  etc.  Washing  meat 
will  dissolve  out  the  surface  albumen  and  juices,  and  detract  just 
that  much  from  its  value.  If  necessary  to  wash  it,  do  not  let  it  stay 
in  water,  but  use  cold  water,  throw  it  on  quickly,  and  then  wipe  the 
meat  dry. 

The  Action  of  Salt  on  Meat.— This  should  be  understood.  Salt 
causes  the  fibers  of  meat  to  contract,  and  the  juice  to  flow  out  of  its 
pores,  often  forcing  out  in  this  way  as  much  as  \  of  the  juice  of 
the  meat,  which  is  the  reason  of  the  fact,  familiar  to  every  house- 
wife, that  dry  salt  in  contact  with  fresh  meat  gradually  becomes 
fluid  brine.  Now  as  the  juice  thus  extracted  contains  albumen,  and 
other  valuable  principles,  it  will  be  seen  that  meat  which  has  been 
preserved  with  salt  can  never  have  the  nutritive  value  of  fresh  meat, 
because  the  juices  when  once  drawn  out  can  never  be  restored. 

Do  7iot  put  salt  on  meat  that  is  being  cooked  until  it  is  nearly 
done;  if  added  earlier  it  toughens  the  fibre. 

Hard  and  Soft  Water. — Many  cooks  also  do  not  understand  the 
action  of  different  waters  on  meat.  For  making  soup,  or  broth,  soft 
water,  unsalted,  is  best  to  use,  because  that  more  readily  penetrates 
the  tissues  and  extracts  the  juices;  but  for  cooking  meat  to  be  eaten, 
where  it  is  desired  to  retain  the  juices  in  the  meat,  hard  water  is 
best,  or  if  soft  water  is  used,  put  a  little  salt  in  it.  Salt  added  to  the 
water  in  which  meat  or  fish  is  cooked  acts  in  3  ways:    (1)     It  helps 


MEATS  125 

to  coagulate  the  surface  albumen.  (2)  Water  containing  salt  boils 
at  a  little  higher  temperature  than  pure  water.  (3)  It  increases  the 
density  of  the  water,  and  the  juices  flow  out  less  readily.  Although 
each  action  is  rather  small,  they  all  combine  to  keep  in  the  juices. 

The  Disagreeable  Odor  of  Boiling.— This  may  be  kept  from  filling 
the  house  by  putting  into  the  water  a  pod  of  red  pepper.  A  lump  of 
charcoal  wrapped  in  muslin  and  dropiDed  in  the  kettle  will  also 
absorb  the  odor  and  prevent  its  permeating  the  house. 

Burning  Fat.— When,  in  brcwling  meat,  fat  drops  down  on  the 
coals,  and  you  fear  it  may  give  the  meat  a  smoky  taste,  take  off  the 
gridiron  for  a  minute  or  two,  and  put  a  little  salt  on  the  coals. 

To  Thaw  Frozen  Meat. — Put  it  in  cold  water,  and  do  not  try  to 
cook  it  until  it  is  fully  thawed.  Do  not  thaw  it  until  just  before  it  is 
to  be  cooked.  To  ascertain  whether  the  thawing  is  complete,  drive 
an  iron  skewer  through  the  thickest  part  of  the  joint;  if  there  is  a 
core  of  ice  within,  it  will  be  distinctly  felt  by  the  resistance  it  offers. 
If  the  meat  is  cooked  before  it  is  perfectly  thawed,  it  will  often  dis- 
play a  raw  center  when  done.  Meat  that  has  been  frozen  decom- 
poses easily  when  thawed,  and  it  is  apt  to  be  insipid  and  dry  when 
cooked. 

Cold  Meat. — Cold,  sliced  meats  are  much  relished  by  many,  but 
need  not,  necessarily,  be  entirely  cold  when  served,  especially  in  cold 
weather.  Arrange  the  slices  neatly  on  a  platter,  then  set  the  platter 
in  the  oven  with  the  door  open,  and  warm  just  enough  to  take  off  the 
chill,  but  not  to  start  the  fat  from  the  meat.  Serve  it  with  tomato 
or  chili  sauce.     Cold  meat  cuts  better  after  it  is  entirely  cold. 

Kemember  that  in  re^warming  all  kinds  of  meat,  it  must  not  be 
re^cooked,  as  that  has  a  tendency  to  harden  it.  By  placing  thinly 
cut  bits  of  cold  meat  in  a  hot  dish,  or  platter,  and  pouring  over  it  the 
hot  sauce  or  gravy,  and  then  serving  in  hot  plates  in  cold  weather, 
the  meat  will  be  sufficiently  heated.  Cold  butcher's  meat  of  all 
kinds  can  be  treated  in  this  way;  also  fish,  shelhfish,  poultry  and 
game,  each  covered  with  its  appropriate  hot  sauce  or  gravy.  Mutton 
particularly  calls  for  hot  x^lates  nearly  all  the  year  round,  as  thf^  fat 
hardens  immediately  on  a  cold  plate. 

GRAVY — Gravy  differs  from  a  meat  sauce  in  that  it  is  made  of 
the  juices  which  drip  from  roasted  or  baked  meats;  or  from  tliose 
extracted  in  the  iDrocess  of  frying  or  sauteing;  or  from  the  broth 
from  boiled  meats,  in  contradistinction  from  a  sauce  made  frc^m 
something  foreign  to  the  meat. 

Gravy  for  roasted  meat  is  made  by  adding  water  to  the  drippings 
pan  in  which  the  meat  is  roasted;  the  juices  of  the  meat  which  liav(^ 


126  MEATS 

dried  and  browned  on  the  sides  of  the  dripping-pan,  should  be  thor- 
oughly stirred  down  into  the  pan  with  a  spoon,  as  this  gives  color 
and  flavor  to  the  gravy;  the  surplus  fat  must  be  dipped  off,  but  a 
small  i^ortion  left  in  gives  the  needed  fat  and  richness  to  the  gravy 
without  the  addition  of  butter,  and  will  be  thoroughly  blended 
through  it  by  the  addition  of  the  thickening.  The  thickening  is 
made  by  mixing  flour  or  corn^starch  with  a  little  cold  water,  and 
stirring  it  into  the  boiling  contents  of  the  drij)ping=pan,  which  is 
placed  on  the  top  of  the  stove  or  ran^e,  immediately  upon  taking  up 
the  roast.  Most  cooks  of  the  present  day  use  corn-starch,  which 
cooks  free  from  lumps;  others  prefer  the  flavor  of  flour  thickening, 
even  if  it  necessitates  the  straining  of  the  gravy;  browned  flour,  or 
browned  flour  and  butter,  called  brown  roux,  or  white  roux,  which  is 
raw  flour  and  butter  already  mixed,  is  used  by  professional  cooks. 
Gravies  should  be  kept  hot  in  a  sauce^pan,  after  straining,  until  sent 
to  the  table  for  a  cold  gravy  is  an  abomination. 

Gravy  for  meat  fried  in  a  frying-pan  is  made  in  the  same  way, 
by  adding  a  little  hot  water  to  the  pan  after  the  meat  is  taken  up, 
then  thickening  it  as  above;  there  is  usually  no  surplus  fat  when 
meat  is  cooked  in  a  frying=pan,  as  only  enough  fat  is  used  to  keep 
the  meat  from  sticking  to  the  pan. 

Gravy  for  boiled  meat  is  made  by  dipping  the  required  quantity 
of  broth  from  the  top  of  the  iDot,  together  with  a  portion  of  the  fat, 
then  thicken  and  season  as  for  other  gravies.  A  spoonful  of  any  one 
of  the  various  meat  sauces  may  be  added  to  gravies  for  seasoning  if 
preferred. 

Do  not  spoil  gravies  with  high  seasoning  of  any  kind,  for  the 
best  gravy  is  that  in  which  the  flavor  of  the  meat  is  best  retained. 
The  English  method  of  making  gravy  with  meat=liquor  or  soup=stock 
is  as  follows:  When  roasting  beef,  mutton,  lamb  or  pork,  pour  oflP 
into  a  dish,  ^  hour  before  dinner  time,  all  the  contents  of  the  drip- 
ping=pan,  and  set  them  away  in  a  cool  place;  then  put  into  the  pan 
1  or  2  cups  of  the  meat  liquor  or  stock;  if  you  have  cold  gravy  or 
drippings  of  a  previous  day,  take  off  all  the  fat  from  the  top,  and  put 
the  liquid  which  is  left,  into  the  pan.  Wet  some  browned  flour 
smooth,  and  when  you  take  up  the  meat,  set  the  dripping=pan  on  top 
of  the  stove;  the  gravy  will  at  once  boil  up,  and  the  wet  flour  must 
then  be  stirred  in.  Do  not  let  it  stand  too  long,  as  it  will  boil  away 
fast. 

With  veal  and  venison,  there  is  but  little  fat,  and  that  is  not 
gross,  and  so  the  gravy  is  made  differently.      When  the  meat  is  first 


BEEF  127 

put  to  roast,  put  some  meat-liquor  or  stock  in  the  dripping-pan,  and 
add  a  little  more  as  it  boils  away.  When  the  meat  is  done,  set  the 
dripping=pan  on  the  stove,  and,  having  stirred  in  the  wet  flour  as 
before,  add  a  piece  of  butter  ^  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  stir  until  it  is 
all  melted  or  it  will  make  the  gravy  oily. 

For  poultry,  the  gravy  is  made  by  boiling  the  giblets  by  them- 
selves in  a  little  water;  skim  it  carefully,  as  a  good  deal  of  scum  will 
rise.  After  1  or  1^  hours,  take  them  out  and  pour  the  water  into  the 
dripping==pan;  mash  or  chop  the  liver  fine,  and  when  you  make  the 
gravy,  add  this  and  a  bit  of  butter,  some  pepper,  the  wet  flour,  and, 
if  you  choose,  a  little  sweet  marjoram. 

The  fat  that  roasts  out  of  a  turkey  should  be  dipped  off  with  a 
spoon  before  these  ingredients  are  added;  it  is  too  gross  to  be  palat- 
able. 

For  goose  gravy,  pour  off  all  the  drippings  as  directed  for  beef 
or  pork,  and  put  in  some  of  the  meat-liquor  or  stock. 

To  Brown  Flour. — Some  cooks  keep  browned  flour  on  hand  for 
gravies  and  soups,  and  think  it  gives  a  better  flavor  and  color  than 
white  flour.  Prepare  it  as  follows:  Put  about  a  quart  of  flour  into  a 
gpider  and  set  it  into  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the  stove;  stir  it  often 
lest  it  should  burn.  When  it  is  a  light  brown  color,  set  it  away  for 
use,  in  a  jar  or  wide  mouthed  bottle,  keeping  it  corked. 

Garnishing  meat  adds  much  to  its  aiDpearance.  Slices  of  carrots 
are  suitable  for  hot  or  cold  boiled  beef.  Mint  is  used  for  hot  or  cold 
roast  lamb,  either  with  or  without  parsley.  For  roast  veal  and  calf's 
head,  slices  of  lemon  are  used.  For  boiled  meats  or  stews,  use 
capers,  boiled  onions  or  pickled  gherkins.  For  roast  beef,  horse- 
radish is  often  used.  Slices  of  red  beet-root  go  well  on  boiled  beef 
or  cold  meat,  and  for  poultry,  fish,  cold  meats,  etc.,  parsley  is  very 
generally  used. 

Slices  of  lemon  served  with  a  plate  of  beefsteak  will  impart  a 
Jpleasant  flavor  to  it,  and  those  who  like  onions  will  relish  beefsteak 
served  on  a  platter  that  has  been  well  rubbed  with  raw  onion. 


BEEF. 

Beef  is  probably  the  best  and  the  most  wholesome,  as  it  is  cer- 
tainly the  most  economical  meat  that  can  be  purchased  for  family 
use.  Very  lean  beef  is  of  inferior  quality,  while  that  which  is  very 
fat  is  objectionable  because  it  is  so  wasteful. 

Before  boiling  salted  beef,  it  should  be  soaked  in  a  quantity  of 


128  BEEF 

water  over  nii^lit;  then  put  it  on  in  cold  water  nnd  it  is  mnch  better 
for  a  lonj.!^,  slo/c  boiling. 

BEEF  BALLS. — Chop  fine  some  cold  beef,  mix  with  the  meat  1 
or  2  welhbeaten  eggs,  according  to  quantity  of  meat;  a  bit  of  chopped 
onion,  a  little  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  flour  your  hands,  roll 
the  prepared  meat  into  balls,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

CHIPPED  BEEF.— Heat  together  1  cup  each  of  milk  and  water, 
and  thicken  with  a  beaten  egg  and  a  little  flour;  when  it  has  boiled 
5  minutes,  add  a  quantity  of  chipped  beef;  stir  in  well  and  remove 
at  once  from  the  fire. 

BEEF  OR  VEAL  CHEESE — Boil  and  skim  beef  until  the  meat 
and  gristle  drop  from  the  bone;  choj)  the  meat  fine,  season  with  pep- 
per, salt  and  sage,  and  put  in  a  deep  dish;  take  all  the  fat  from  the 
soup  and  boil  it  away  some,  then  pour  it  over  the  meat,  stir  well,  and 
set  away  to  cool  and  harden.     Cut  in  slices  and  eat  Cold. 

CORNED  BEEF.— Put  it  into  cold  water  and  boil  slowly  until 
tender.  If  there  are  any  bones  take  them  out,  fold  the  meat  together 
and  press  it  under  a  heavy  weight.  It  can  then  be  sliced  in  nice 
shape.     Time  to  boil  |  hour  for  each  pound  of  beef. 

BEEF  DAUBE  (doe-b). — Have  a  slice  cut  from  the  top  of  the 
round  of  beef,  3  or  4  inches  thick;  take  out  the  bone,  cut  places  all 
over  it  an  inch  or  two  apart  (doing  it  as  evenly  as  possible)  and 
place  little  squares  of  salt  pork  in  each  cut;  put  it  in  a  deep  frying= 
pan  or  bakings  tin  with  a  little  water,  cover  tightly,  and  bake,  or  sim- 
mer on  the  stove  for  an  hour;  then  turn  it  in  the  pan,  season  with  a 
little  salt,  pepper,  and  herbs  if  liked,  slice  on  an  onion,  2  or  3  pota- 
toes, a  small  turnip,  and  a  carrot,  cover  again,  and  bake  or  simmer 
until  the  vegetables  are  done.  Serve  with  sour  apples,  baked  or 
fried.     Time,  If  hours. 

DEVILED  BEEF.— Take  2  lbs.  round  steak,  chopped  fine,  add  a 
cup  of  bread  crumbs,  |  cup  of  sweet  milk,  a  good  table  spoon  of  but- 
ter, a  good  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little  pepper.  Mix  and  put  into  square 
deep  tins,  and  bake  about  |  hour.     It  slices  nicely  when  cold. 

DRIED  BEEF — This  is  commonly  served  as  an  appetizer,  sliced 
very  thinly,  and  eaten  raw.  It  is  cooked  by  slicing  thinly,  or  rather, 
shaving  it  as  for  a  relish,  then  put  it  in  a  sauce^jjan  and  scald  with 
just  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  it;  let  it  scald  4  or  5  minutes, 
then  drain  off  the  water,  and  add  ^  pint  of  cream;  when  this  gets  hot 
thicken  it  with  a  little   corn^starch  in  cold  milk:  when  thoroughly 


BEEF  129 

hot,  serve  in  a  hot  dish.  Milk  may  be  substituted  for  cream,  and  a 
little  butter  added  to  season  it,  or  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  This  is  a  con- 
venient and  economical  dish  for  a  small  family  living  at  a  distance 
from  a  market.     Serve  with  either  boiled  or  baked  potatoes. 

DRIED  BEEF  RELISH— Cut  dried  beef  very  fine,  put  it  in  a 
sauce^pan  with  a  little  hot  water  and  let  it  simmer  on  the  stove  a  few 
minutes;  add  a  little  butter,  toast  slices  of  bread  a  nice,  delicate 
brown,  and  spread  the  beef  over  the  slices  of  toast.  If  the  dried  beef 
is  very  salt,  turn  off  the  hot  water  after  standing  a  few  minutes;  then 
add  a  little  more  to  prepare  it. 

FILLET  OF  BEEF — This  is  the  underside  of  the  loin;  take 
out  the  bones.  After  trimming  and  larding,  put  into  a  pan,  in  the 
bottom  of  which  are  some  small  pieces  of  beef  suet;  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper;  add  1  cup  of  water.  Bake  in  hot  oven  30  minutes; 
baste  often  with  hot  water. 

FRIZZLED  BEEF— Take  2  cups  of  sliced  dried  beef,  i  cup  of 
butter,  6  cups  of  sweet  milk,  6  even  teaspoons  of  flour,  |  teaspoon  of 
pepper,  and  12  small  slices  of  bread.  Brown  the  butter  slightly,  add 
the  dried  beef  and  let  it  cook  until  it  curls  at  the  edges;  stir  in  the 
flour  dry,  add  the  milk  and  pepper,  stirring  constantly  until  it  boils; 
turn  it  over  the  bread  and  serve. 

BEEF  HEART — Cut  open  the  heart,  rub  well  outside  and  in 
with  salt;  maKe  a  nice  dressing  the  same  as  for  chicken,  stuff  the 
heart  and  sew  it  together.  Roll  a  nice  round  steak  around  it  and  tie; 
season  well  with  pepper  and  salt.  Then  put  a  plate  in  the  bottom  of 
a  kettle,  put  in  the  heart,  cover  with  water,  and  cook  until  tender. 
When  about  done,  take  it  out  and  put  into  a  dripping-pan,  pour  over 
the  juice  in  which  it  was  cooked,  and  place  it  in  the  oven  to  brown. 
Make  a  nice  gravy  to  go  with  it.     Excellent. 

HUNTERS'  BEEF— Take  25  lbs.  of  round  of  beef,  3  oz.  of  salt- 
petre, 3  oz.  of  the  coarsest  brown  sugar,  1  oz.  of  cloves,  1  nutmeg,  ^ 
oz.  of  allspice,  3  handfuls  of  common  salt — all  in  the  finest  powder. 
Take  the  bones  from  about  25  lbs.  of  a  round  of  beef,  and  let  it  hang 
for  2  or  3  days.  Then  rub  the  above  ingredients  well  into  it  every 
day  for  2  or  3  weeks,  turning  it  every  morning.  When  ready  to 
be  dressed,  dip  it  into  cold  water  to  take  off  the  loose  spice,  bind 
it  up  tightly  with  a  wide  tape  and  put  it  into  a  pan  with  a  crust  of 
flour  and  water;  set  it  in  the  oven  and  bake  it  six  hours.  When  it  is 
cold,  take  off  the  paste  and  tape,  glaze  it  and  garnish  it  with  savory 
jelly.  The  gravy  is  very  fine, 'and  add,-;  greatly  to  the  flavor  of  soups, 
hashes,  etc.     It  keeps  good  for  some  time. 


130  BEEF 

BEEF  KIDNEYS.— Cut  the  kidneys  in  2  slices,  lengthwise;  soak 
an  hour  in  salted  water,  then  wipe  dry;  dip  them  in  a  beaten  egg, 
roll  in  cracker  dust,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire. 

Kidneys  may  be  stewed  until  tender  in  a  very  little  water,  and 
seasoned;  then  thicken  the  broth,  and  serve. 

STUFFED  LIVER.— Scald  slices  of  liver  in  boiling  water  with  a 
little  salt;  make  dressing  as  for  poultry;  put  a  layer  of  thin  slices  of 
salt  pork  on  the  bottom  of  a  deep  baking-dish  or  the  short=handled 
frying=pan;  then  spread  half  the  liver  on  the  pork  and  place  the 
dressing  on  it.  Cover  the  dressing  with  the  remaining  half  of  the 
liver,  cover  with  a  pan  or  plate,  and  bake  an  hour. 

DEVILED  LIVER— Chop  very  fine  3  lbs.  of  liver  and  ^  lb.  of 
salt  pork,  both  uncooked.  Then  mix  |-  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  3  ta- 
blespoons of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  pepper,  ^  teaspoon  cayenne,  and  ^ 
teaspoon  of  mace  and  cloves;  add  and  mix  well  with  the  chopped 
liver  and  pork;  put  it  in  a  covered  sauce-pan,  and  set  that  in  a  sauce- 
pan of  cold  water.  Cover  the  sauce- pan  and  place  on  the  fire  to  boil 
2  hours.  Take  out  the  mold,  uncover,  and  let  it  stand  in  an  open 
oven  to  let  the  steam  escape.     This  is  a  cold  dish. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE — Cut  the  bone  from  a  round  of  beef,  and 
fill  the  space  with  bread  and  butter  dressing,  or  a  dressing  made  with 
onions  and  spiced  with  herbs.  Put  a  bandage  around  it  to  keep  it  in 
shape,  and  put  it  in  a  pot  just  large  enough  to  hold  it;  add  about  a 
pint  of  water,  cover  tightly,  and  bake  3  hours.  Good  either  hot  or 
cold. 

MOCK  DUCK. — Take  a  good  piece  of  upper  round  steak,  make  a 
dressing  as  for  turkey,  and  spread  it  over  the  steak;  roll  it  up  and 
wind  it  with  a  string*  Bake  it  as  you  would  roast  beef,  but  not  so 
long.  It  can  be  served  hot,  or  allowed  to  cool  with  the  string  around 
it,  when  it  can  be  cut  in  thin  slices  for  luncheon  or  tea.  If  served 
cold,  garnish  handsomely  with  sliced  lemon  and  green  parsley. 

Mock  Duck  No.  2.— Make  a  dressing  the  same  as  for  turkey,  put  it 
in  a  round  of  beefsteak  which  has  been  salted  and  peppered,  and 
sew  it  np;  then  roast  it  with  2  or  3  slices  of  salt  pork  on  top,  and 
baste  it  frequently.     It  will  be  equal  to  duck. 

BEEF  OMELET — Chop  finely  1  pound  of  raw  beef;  roll  3 
crackers  to  a  powder,  and  mix  with  them  h  teaspoon  of  baking  powder; 
beat  well  2  eggs,  and  then  mix  all  together  with  a  seasoning  of  salt, 
pepper  and  powdered  herbs;  put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 
in  a  pudding==dish,  let  it  just  melt,  then  place  the  mixture  in  a  cake 


BEEF  131 

in  the  dish,  flatten  down  into  a  flat  cake  in  the  bottom  of  the  pud- 
ding^dish,  and  bake  |  hour.  Take  it  up  on  a  hot  platter,  spread  the 
top  with  soft  butter,  and  send  to  the  table  hot.  Good  for  supper  or 
breakfast  in  cold  weather.  For  breakfast,  serve  hot  corn=meal  muf- 
fins with  the  omelet. 

BEEF  POT  PIE — A  good  dinner  which  combines  the  needed 
variety  of  foods  in  1  dish,  is  a  beef  or  mutton  stew.  Two  pounds  of 
cheap  meat,  neck  of  mutton,  shin  or  round  of  beef,  is  enough  for  4  to 
6  people.  Cut  the  meat  in  inch  pieces,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  roll  in  flour.  Put  the  bones  in  cold  water  and  heat  slowly;  when 
boiling,  put  in  the  meat,  already  browned  in  a  frying-pan,  with  a  lit- 
tle hot  fat.  Add  1  or  2  small  onions  sliced  and  fried  with  the  meat, 
if  liked;  a  stalk  of  celery,  or  ^  cup  of  strained  tomato,  also  gives  a 
nice  flavor.  Simmer  an  hour,  then  add  a  medium=sized  carrot  and 
turnip,  cleaned  and  cut  in  ^  inch  squares;  cook  2  hours,  or  till  the 
meat  is  tender;  ^  hour  before  serving,  put  in  6  potatoes  already 
pared,  quartered  and  parboiled  to  draw  out  their  strong  juice.  Taste 
and  season  more  if  liked,  and  skim  all  fat  from  the  top;  10  minutes 
before  dinner  time,  put  in  the  dumpling  and  cook  without  removing 
the  cover.  The  Dumplings :  1  pint  of  flour,  I  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  sifted  together  and  mixed  into  a  soft  dough 
with  1  cup  more  or  less  of  milk  or  water.  Drop  from  the  tip  of  the 
spoon  into  the  boiling  stew,  cover  closely,  and  in  10  minutes  take  up 
on  a  hot  platter  or  place  around  the  platter  on  which  the  stew  is 
served. 

POT=ROAST  OF  BEEF — Take  5  or  6  pounds  of  the  round  of 
beef,  remove  the  bone,  put  slices  of  suet  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  pot, 
and  fry  out  the  fat;  leave  the  bits  of  suet  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle, 
put  in  the  beef  in  a  round  shape,  and  add  a  pint  of  hot  water;  put  on 
the  stove  where  it  will  cook  slowly.  Cover  well  after  sprinkling  on  a 
little  salt,  pepper,  and  sweet  herbs,  if  liked.  It  should  cook  2  or  3 
hours,  and  at  last  uncover  it  and  rapidly  cook  out  all  the  water,  until 
it  begins  to  fry  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle;  when  it  is  nicely 
browned  on  the  bottom,  take  up  on  a  platter,  the  browned  side  up, 
and  pour  over  it  any  fat  left  in  the  pot.  Good,  warm  or  cold.  Cut 
in  thin  slices  it  makes  nice  sandwiches. 

PRESSED  BEEF — Take  any  kind  of  beef,  stew  it  till  the  bones 
fall  out,  pick  it  over  carefully,  removing  all  gristle,  and  chop  finely. 
Season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  add  any  herbs  or  spices  de- 
sired. Put  it  in  a  brick^shaped  pan  with  a  flaring  top,  put  another 
pan  on  top,  and  weight  with  flatnrons  or  other  convenient  weight 


132  BEEF 

When  cold,  serve  in  slices.  Thus  prepared,  cheap  and  tough  pieces 
of  meat  may  be  made  delicious. 

ROAST  BEEF.— The  best  pieces  for 
roasting  are  the  first  and  second  cut  of  the 
sirloin.  The  next  to  be  preferred  are  the 
first  cut  of  the  rib  and  the  back  of  the 
rump.  Dredge  with  flour,  salt,  and  pep- 
per,  place  in  dripping-pan  with  very  little  sirloin. 

water;  baste  frequently.     If  a  large -piece 

of  beef  (10  or  12  pounds)  allow  15  minutes  to  every  pound;  a  small 
piece,  10  minutes  to  every  pound.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  dripping. 
After  carefully  skimming  off  all  the  grease,  pour  the  remainder  into 
a  sauce^pan,  mix  a  little  brown  flour  carefully  so  as  not  to  have  any 
lumps,  and  stir  into  the  liquid  while  boiling;  boil  3  minutes  and  it  is 
ready  to  serve. 

ROAST  RIBS  OF  BEEF — Take  a  2  or  3  rib  roast,  have  ribs 
sawed  across  3  times  at  least,  with  no  seasoning  of  anjj  kind  as  that 
injures  the  flavor  of  the  meat.  Set  on  bricks  in  a  very  hot  oven,  sear 
over,  and  when  well  browned  decrease  heat  by  opening  the  door  and 
closing  the  dampers;  then  cook  slowly  for  1  hour  if  liked  rare,  or  1^ 
hours  if  well  done. 

ROAST   BEEF  AND    YORKSHIRE    PUDDING Into    2    cups 

flour  mix  1  teaspoon  baking  i)owder,  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  add  1  cup 
milk,  beat  till  smooth,  and  add  another  cup  of  milk.  Put  it  in  hot 
gem=pans  and  bake;  baste  it  with  beef  drippings.  Serve  it  with  the 
roast  beef.  The  batter  is  often  poured  under  the  beef  to  bake, 
but  this  is  a  better  way. 

SPICED  BEEF.— Boil  2  or  3  pounds  of  fat  beef  slowly  until  the 
bones  will  easily  separate  from  the  meat;  then  take  it  out,  take  out 
all  the  bones,  and  chop  the  meat  (fat  and  lean  together)  while  hot; 
season  with  salt,  white  pepper  and  sifted  sweet  herbs — sage,  thyme, 
parsley,  or  any  best  liked.  Mix  all  thoroughly  and  put  in  a  brick- 
shaped  bread  pan  to  become  cold  for  the  next  day.  The  broth  can 
be  used  for  a  soup  the  next  day.  Serve  the  spiced  meat,  cut  in 
slices,  with  potatoes,  baked,  or  cooked  in  any  way  liked. 

BOILED  TONGUE — If  the  tongue  is  salted,  soak  over  night  in 
plenty  of  cold  water;  the  next  morning  put  it  over  the  fire  with 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  it,  and  boil  slowly  3  or  4  hours,  according 
to  the  size;  skin  the  tongue  while  hot  and  set  away  to  cool.  When 
cold,  cut  in  very  thin  slices,  excepting  the  extreme  tip,  which  can  be 


I 


BEEF  133 

used  for  making  side  dishes.  If  the  tongue  is  fresh,  then  soak  it 
over  night  in  cold  water  in  which  is  a  handful  of  salt;  the  next  morn- 
ing put  it  over  the  fire  and  cook  slowly,  and  proceed  in  the  same 
manner  as  with  salted  tongue. 

TRIPE — Tripe  is  usually  sold  already  boiled  and  pickled,  and  is 
a  good  food  if  cider  vinegar  is  used  for  a  pickle;  if  any  of  the  miner- 
al acids  are  used,  it  will  unfavorably  affect  the  digestion.  After 
coming  from  the  market,  it  is  sometimes  broiled,  spread  with  butter, 
and  served  with  baked  potatoes.  It  can  be  put  on  a  platter  and  set 
on  the  grate  in  the  oven  until  hot  and  then  spread  with  butter;  again, 
it  can  be  fried  brown  in  the  frying-pan  with  a  little  butter,  and  sea- 
soned with  any  of  the  piquant  meat  sauces.  It  may  also  be  cut  in 
strips,  soaked  10  or  12  hours  in  salt  and  vinegar,  wiped  dry,  and  fried 
in  hot  lard.     It  can  be  stewed  also. 

Fricasseed  Tripe — Cut  in  narrow  strips  1  lb.  of  tri^oe  and  add  to  it 
1  cu^D  of  milk,  or  part  water;  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  of 
flour,  stirred  with  a  little  cold  milk  or  water.  Let  it  simmer  gently 
for  I  hour,  and  serve  hot.  It  may  be  improved  by  a  bunch  of  parsley 
cut  small  and  put  with  it. 

BEEFSTEAK. — Broiled  Steak. — Grease  the  gridiron  with  suet. 
Have  it  hot.  Put  on  the  steak  over  hot  coals.  In  a  moment, 
when  the  steak  is  colored,  turn  it  over.  Watch  and  turn  frequently. 
Do  not  let  out  the  juice  by  sticking  a  fork  in  it.  Remove  to  a  hot 
platter.  Sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  butter  well.  Set  plat- 
ter into  oven  a  few  minutes,  to  let  butter  soak  well  in.  Serve  hot. 
The  juice  of  a  good  steak  is  inside  of  it — not  a  gravy  in  the  dish. 

Broiled  Chopped  Beefsteak  (called  Salisbury  steak).— Take  2  lbs.  of 
raw  beefsteak  and  chop  fine  in  a  chopping  bowl;  then  press  together 
in  flat  pieces,  each  one  large  enough  for  1  person,  and  broil  over  a 
bed  of  coals.  This  is  nice  for  an  invalid  or  person  with  poor  teeth, 
especially  if  tender  steak  cannot  be  had. 

Beefsteak  and  Oysters. — Broil  the  steak  the  usual  way.  Put  1  qt. 
of  oysters  with  very  little  of  the  liquor  into  a  stew^jpan  upon  the  fire; 
when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  take  off  the  scum  that  may  rise,  stir  in  3 
ounces  of  butter  mixed  with  a  tablespoon  of  sifted  flour;  let  it  boil 
one  minute  until  it  thickens;  pour  it  over  the  steak  and  serve  hot. 

Beefsteak  Pie. — Put  about  2  pounds  of  steak  (round  steak  will  an- 
swer) into  a  sauce=pan  with  a  gill  of  water;  put  on  the  cover  and  sim- 
mer for  an  hour;  then  cut  the  steak  into  small  pieces  about  h  inch 
square;  put  them  into  a  white  pudding^dish,  thicken  the  juice  with  a 


134  BEEF 

tablespoon  of  corn=starch,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  herbs,  also 
with  garlic  or  onion  if  liked,  and  pour  it  over  the  meat;  then  cover 
with  a  rich  pie  crust  and  bake  until  the  crust  is  a  rich  golden  brown. 
This  is  good  to  serve  at  luncheons.  A  less  expensive  pie  can  be 
made  by  covering  the  meat  with  a  nice  baking-powder  biscuit  dough. 
Bake  this  also  until  it  is  nicely  browned.     Time,  about  If  hours. 

Beefsteak,  Rolled. — Put  a  slice  of  round  steak  on  the  meat=board, 
sprinkle  on  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  on  bits  of  butter,  with  a 
little  chopped  onion  if  liked,  and  a  little  sifted  sage;  spread  over  it 
mashed  potatoes,  or  sliced  raw  potatoes,  and  roll  it  up;  wind  with  a 
string  and  fasten  the  ends  with  skewers;  put  in  a  baking^pan  with  a 
pint  of  water  and  bake  slowly  an  hour;  baste  often. 

Beefsteak  Smothered  in  Onions. — Cut  6  onions  very  fine,  put  them  in 
a  sauce=pan  with  2  cups  hot  water,  2  oz.  butter,  some  pepper,  salt, 
and  dredge  in  flour;  let  stew  until  the  onions  are  quite  soft.  Have 
the  steak  broiled,  put  it  into  the  sauce=pan  with  the  onions,  let  sim- 
mer 5  or  10  minutes;  send  to  the  table  very  hot. 

Hamburg  Steak. — Lay  your  beefsteak  on  the  meat=board,  salt  and 
pepper  it  as  required;  peel  and  slice  a  few  onions  and  cover  the 
steak.  Then  with  chopping-knife  chop  all  together  until  like  hash, 
and  fry  in  hot  fat,  either  in  balls  like  sausage,  or  plain.  Leave  out 
the  onions  unless  you  know  everyone  at  the  table  likes  them.  This 
is  delicious. 

MINCED  BEEF. 
2  cups  of  cold  minced  beef.  1  teacup  of  gravy.  < 

1  shallot,  or  small  onion.  1  tablespoon  of  Chutnee  sauce. 

1  bunch  of  parsley.  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Put  the  butter  in  a  sauce^pan,  slice  and  fry  the  onion  until  a  yel- 
lowish brown,  add  the  gravy,  then  the  chopped  parsley;  stir  in  the 
chutnee,  add  the  beef,  and  let  it  get  hot,  but  do  not  re=cook.  Serve 
it  on  a  platter  garnished  with  parsley  and  fried  bread.  Time,  20  to 
30  minutes. 

BOILED  DINNER — Boil  the  corn^beef  early  in  the  day;  when 
tender,  tak?  it  out  and  skim  the  fat  ofp  the  meat  liquor;  then,  about  1 
hour  before  dinner,  put  into  the  boiling  meat  liquor  the  carrots  first, 
having  them  washed  and  scraped;  a  little  later  put  in  the  cabbage 
which  has  been  quartered,  and  the  turnips  which  have  been  pared 
and  sliced;  last,  about  \  hour  before  dinner,  put  in  the  potatoes 
(peeled)  and  a  crook=neck  squash,  peeled  and  sliced.  Boil  the  beets 
by  themselves.  When  done,  take  up  the  vegetables,  put  the  cabbage 
in  a  colander  and  press  out  the  water,  cut  up  the  carrots,  and  serve 


VEAL  135 

the  meat  and  vegetables  separately.  Try  to  serve  them  as  attractive- 
ly as  possible.  This  is  better  than  boiling  meat  and  vegetables 
together. 

MOCK  SAUSAGE — Take  1  lb.  of  cold  beef  and  chop  fine;  then 
take  3  tablespoons  of  chopped  or  mashed  potatoes,  1  egg,  1  table- 
spoon of  flour,  and  a  small  slice  of  bread;  moisten  the  bread  with 
milk  or  water,  stir  all  together,  add  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  sage,  or 
chop  an  onion  in.  Make  in  small  balls,  and  shape  like  slices  of  sau- 
sage. Fry  in  a  little  hot  fat  like  potato  balls,  and  when  brown  on 
one  side,  turn  over  and  brown  the  other. 

SAUSAGE  ROLL — Make  a  dough  as  for  baking  powder  biscuit; 
roll  out  and  cut  in  large  rounds  with  a  large  biscuit  cutter;  lay  fine 
sausage  meat  on  half  of  each  piece,  turn  the  other  half  over  and 
pinch  together;  lay  close  together  in  a  baking=tin  or  dripping-pan, 
and  bake  ^  hour.     These  are  good  either  hot  or  cold. 

PRESERVING  MEAT — In  cold  weather  when  meat  is  plentiful, 
it  can  be  preserved  for  a  long  time  by  treating  it  in  the  following 
manner:  Take  large  pieces  of  the  fore=quarter  of  beef  (the  cheap 
pieces  of  the  neck  and  shoulders);  boil  it  slowly  in  just  water  enough 
to  cover,  until  it  is  tender;  add  a  little  salt  for  the  last  hour;  let  it 
stand  until  quite  cold,  then  mince  it  finely;  season  well  with  pepper, 
and  last,  pack  tightly  in  a  stone  jar,  put  a  few  whole  cloves  on  the 
top,  then  pour  over  it  hot,  melted  beef  suet.  When  this  gets  cold, 
cover  the  jar  with  a  cloth,  then  with  the  cover,  and  store  in  a  cool 
room.  This  is  ready  to  use  for  mince  pies,  and  for  slicing  to  put  in 
a  potato  pie,  or  it  can  be  cut  in  slices  and  served  cold  with  hot  baked 
potatoes,  for  breakfast.  • 


VEAL 

Veal  should  be  thoroughly  cooked,  for  cases  are  not  uncommon 
of  illness  arising  from  eating  under-done  veal.  The  flesh  is  rather 
indigestible.  No  meat  is  more  useful  for  making  stews  and  gravies 
than  veal.  It  needs  much  seasoning  as  it  is  deficient  in  flavor,  and 
while  it  is  richer  in  gelatine  than  beef,  it  has  less  nitrogen.  It  con- 
tains the  least  heat  producing  elements  of  any  meat,  and  is  best  eaten 
with  bacon  and  jelly,  rice  or  potatoes,  etc.,  which  supply  the  elements 
it  lacks. 

Old  Veal. — This  is  most  delicious  meat  and  but  little  known.  It 
is  a  calf  kept  yarded  near  the  house,  fed  liberally  with  skimmed 


136  VEAL 

milk,  vegetables  of  all  kinds,  and  fattened  to  the  age  of  5  or  6  months 
in  this  way,  then  killed  in  the  fall  when  the  vegetables  are  gone.  It 
is  dressed  and  used  like  beef. 

BREAKFAST  VEAL.— Butter  a  small  oval  dish  very  thoroughly, 
and  fill  with  bits  of  cold,  stewed  veal,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  little  nutmeg;  put  in  alternately  with  layers  of  bread  crumbs; 
moisten  with  gravy,  put  bits  of  butter  over  the  top,  and  bake.  When 
it  is  brown,  turn  out  of  the  dish  on  a  hot  platter  and  garnish  with 
parsley.  If  not  too  moist,  it  will  keep  its  form  when  turned  out. 
Time  to  bake,  20  to  30  minutes, 

VEAL,  CREAMED — Chop  cold  veal,  or  cut  in  small,  thin  slices, 
leaving  out  the  stringy  part  for  your  stock  kettle.  If  you  have  a 
pint  of  meat,  it  is  enough  for  a  handsome  dish.  Put  1  teacup  of  rich 
milk  into  the  teakettle  pail,  and,  when  hot,  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour 
and  1  of  butter,  rubbed  together.  Let  it  boil  up,  and  then  stir  in 
the  veal,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  a  pinch  of  mace,  and  a  slice  of 
onion.  When  hot,  pour  on  a  platter  edged  with  leaves  of  puff 
pastry,  and  lay  a  few  on  the  top  of  the  mince.  The  leaves  can  be 
made  of  remiiants  of  pastry  when  you  are  making  pies. 

CALF'S  BRAINS. — Remove  all  the  fibrous  membrane  which 
covers  them,  and  throw  into  a  pint  of  cold  water  containing  ^  tea- 
spoon salt  and  1  teaspoon  vinegar.  Boil  3  minutes,  and  plunge  into 
cold  water.  When  cold,  cut  into  small  pieces,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  egg  and  bread-crumb,  and  fry  in  a  little  hot  drippings.  They 
may  be  prepared  early  in  the  day  if  for  dinner,  or  the  night  before  if 
for  breakfast,  and  they  may  be  served  plain  or  with  tomato  sauce. 

VEAL  CUTLETS,  BREADED.— 

Egg    and    bread=crumb   the   cutlets, 

and   fry   them   in   smoking   hot   fat, 

turning  them  until  well  done — time  4 

to  6  minutes.      Then    take   up   and 

pour  over  them  a  good  brown  gravy; 

serve  hot.      They  may  be  garnished  7eal  outlet. 

with  parsley. 

CALF'S  LIVER,  FRIED— Cut  the  liver  in  thin  slices,  pour  hot 
water  over,  to  blanch  it;  let  stand  in  the  water  while  you  fry  the  fat 
from  ^  dozen  slices  of  breakfast  bacon;  take  out  the  bacon  and  cut  a 
large  onion  in  slices  and  fry  brown;  then  fry  the  liver,  after  drying 
it  in  a  cloth;  after  the  liver  is  brown  on  both  sides,  sprinkle  over  it  a 
little  salt  and  a  teaspoon  of  curry  i^owder;  cover  and  stew  20  min- 
utes. 


VEAL  137 

CALF'S  LIVER  STEWED.— Wash  and  lard  a  calf's  liver;  chop 
1  turnip,  1  carrot,  1  stalk  of  celery,  and  1  onion,  and  place  them  in 
the  bottom  of  a  deep  baking^pan;  place  the  liver  on  toio,  sprinkle  salt 
and  pepper  over  the  whole,  and  pour  on  a  pint  of  boiling  water; 
cover  the  pan,  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  for  2  hours;  when 
done,  remove  the  liver,  put  a  teaspoon  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan, 
and  place  over  the  fire  to  heat;  add  the  liquor  strained  from  the  veg- 
etables, and  a  little  flour,  stir  until  it  begins  to  boil,  then  add  a  table- 
spoon of  Worcestershire  sauce;  pour  over  the  liver  and  serve  at  once. 

ROAST  FILLET  OF  VEAL.— Bone  the  joint,  make  a  deep  in- 
cision between  the  fillet  and  saddle,  and  fill  with  dressing  made  as 
for  poultry;  bind  the  joint  in  round  form  and  fasten  with  skewers 
and  twine,  and  roast  slowly,  allowing  about  20  minutes  to  the  pound. 
Baste  well  with  butter,  dredge  over  a  little  flour,  and  butter  well; 
make  gravy  of  drippings,  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon  added;  garnish 
the  platter  on  which  the  meat  is  served  with  slices  of  lemon  and 
parsley. 

VEAL  LOAF — Chop  3-|  lbs.  of  lean  and  fat  raw  veal  very  fine, 
with  1  slice  of  salt  pork;  add  6  crackers  rolled  fine,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  pepper  and  1  of  sage;  mix  this 
thoroughly  and  pack  it  tightly  in  a  deep,  square  tin;  sprinkle  over 
the  top  a  little  melted  butter  and  fine  cracker  crumbs.  Cover  it  with 
another  tin  and  bake  2  hours;  uncover  and  brown  the  top.  Serve 
cold  in  thin  slices.     This  is  very  nice  for  a  picnic  lunch. 

VEAL  MAYONNAISE.— Cut  pieces  of  cold  veal  into  bits,  not  as 
small  as  dice;  put  in  an  equal  quantity  of  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces; 
mix  thoroughly,  and  pour  over  it  a  little  of  the  dressing,  reserving 
the  rest  to  put  over  the  top  when  it  is  arranged  in  the  dish;  garnish 
with  lettuce  leaves,  and  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices.  Lettuce  can 
be  substituted  for  celery. 

MOLDED  VEAL — Cut  thin  slices  of  cold  roasted  veal,  put  them 
in  the  bottom  of  a  pan,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  chopped  celery; 
add  a  layer  of  hard=boiled  eggs  sliced  thin,  then  a  layer  of  thinly- 
sliced,  cold  boiled  ham,  and  in  this  way  fill  the  pan.  Pour  over  it 
enough  stock  to  cover  the  meat,  and  bake  in  the  oven  1  hour.  Let  it 
stand  until  cold,  and  serve  in  thin  slices. 

VEAL  POT=PIE.— Take  2  or  3  pounds  of  fat  veal,  cut  it  in  small 
pieces,  and  put  over  the  fire  in  cold  water.  When  it  comes  to  the 
boiling  point,  skim  well,  then  cook  slowly  about  an  hour;  do  not  boil 
rapidly,  as  that  tends  to  make  the  meat  hard.     At  the  end  of  an  hour 


138  VEAL 

sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  sliced  onion  if  liked  by  all, 
and  a  handful  of  washed  rice  to  thicken  it  a  little.  Pare  and  slice 
enough  potatoes  for  the  family,  and  add  to  the  stew;  when  the  broth 
boils  again,  after  putting  in  the  potatoes,  add  dumplings  made  of 
baking=powder  biscuit  dough,  or  crust  made  from  recipe  for  pot-pie 
crust,  and  boil  |  hour. 

POT^PIE  CRUST — One  pint  sour  milk,  1  teacup  sour  cream,  1 
teaspoon  soda;  mix  hard  like  bread,  let  it  stand  1  hour  to  rise; 
never  roll  nor  cut,  but  nip  it  off  in  pieces  the  size  you  want,  let  boil 
30  minutes,  without  lifting  the  lid,  and  you  will  always  have  them 
like  a  puff. 

VEAL=AND=HAM  PIE — Cut  the  veal  into  very  small  pieces  and 
put  a  layer  on  the  bottom  of  a  pudding^dish;  sprinkle  over  it  a  sea- 
soning of  salt,  pepper  and  powdered  herbs  (sage,  thyme,  summer 
savory,  etc.),  then  lay  on  thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham,  fat  and  lean 
together,  then  another  layer  of  veal,  and  so  proceed  to  fill  the  dish; 
pour  in  enough  cold  stock  or  water  to  cover  the  meat,  having  sliced 
ham  on  the  top;  cover  the  top  with  a  thick  puff  paste,  and  bake  an 
hour  in  a  hot  oven.  Put  a  dish  of  hot  water  in  the  oven  to  prevent 
scorching  the  crust.  When  this  is  cold,  it  should  be  a  firm  jelly 
inside. 

"It's  a  veal=and'ham  pie,"  said  Mr,  Boflan.  "  Is  it  indeed,  sir?  And  it  would 
be  hard,  sir,  to  name  the  pie  that  is  a  better  pie  than  a  weel  and  hammer,"  said 
Mr.  Wegg. 

ROAST  VEAL  PIE — Cut  cold  roast  veal  into  slices,  with  the 
stuffing,  and  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish,  adding  pepper  and  salt;  dredge 
lightly  with  flour,  and  put  in  the  gravy  that  was  left,  with  a  little 
hot  water  added  to  it;  a  dish  that  holds  3  pints  will  require  1  cup  of 
gravy.  Cover  the  top  of  the  pie  with  a  crust  made  as  follows:  Crusf. 
■ — One  pint  of  flour  with  2  teaspoons  of  baking=powder  sifted  through 
it;  add  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  f  an  egg,  rubbing  it  into  the 
flour  with  the  hand.  Wet  with  some  sweet  milk,  enough  to  make  a 
dough  as  soft  as  you  can  handle  it.  Different  qualities  of  flour  differ 
in  the  quantity  of  wetting  required.     Bake  till  brown — about  1  hour. 

SCALLOPED  VEAL.— Mince  cold  veal  very  fine.  Put  a  layer 
in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  season  with  peiDper,  salt 
and  a  very  little  nutmeg;  then  put  in  a  thin  layer  of  fine  cracker 
crumbs,  then  another  layer  of  meat,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full. 
Wet  with  good  broth ;  if  you  have  no  broth,  make  a  little  by  boiling 
the  bones  and  trimmings  of  your  veal.  Put  over  the  top  a  layer  of 
cracker  crumbs,  wet  into  a  paste  with  a  little  milk,  and  mixed  with  a 


VEAL  139 

beaten  egg.  If  your  oven  is  not  very  slow,  it  is  best  to  cover  the  dish 
with  a  pan  for  the  first  |  hour,  and  then  let  it  brown  10  minutes 
after  you  uncover  it.     Time,  about  1^  hours. 

SPICED  VEAL. 

3  lbs.  veal  cut  fine.  3  Boston  crackers  rolled  fine. 

1  large  slice  fat  pork.  ^  teacup  of  catsup. 

3  eggs  beaten  well.  1  lemon,  rind  and  juice. 

The  salt  and  pepper  should  be  mixed  with  the  crackers;  mix  all, 
moisten  with  water  and  butter.     Bake  2  hours. 

SMOTHERED  VEAL — Place  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking^^pan  3 
or  4  potatoes  sliced,  1  small  onion  sliced,  2  slices  of  salt  pork  cut  into 
strips;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage;  place  over  this  3  or  4 
pounds  of  veal  from  the  breast,  or  any  other  part  desired;  cover  the 
meat  with  sliced  potatoes,  onion  and  other  seasoning;  sprinkle  over 
all  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  add  a  pint  of  water,  cover  the  pan  with 
another  one,  and  place  in  the  oven  and  cook  1|  hours,  adding 
water  if  it  cooks  dry. 

VEAL  STEW. — Cut  up  2  pounds  of  veal,  and  after  having  wash- 
ed it  carefully,  put  it  in  the  dinner^pot;  add  3  pints  of  water,  put  in  1 
onion,  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  it  stew  an  hour;  then  add  sliced 
potatoes,  and  take  a  crust  made  with  a  pint  of  flour,  a  cup  of  sour 
milk,  and  ^  a  teaspoon  of  soda  sifted  through  the  flour,  a  pinch  of 
saltj  cut  up  in  squares,  dust  a  little  flour  Over  them,  lay  them  in  on 
top,  cover  closely  and  cook  f  an  hour. 

VEAL  TOAST. — One  cup  of  chopped  veal,  1  cup  of  hot  water, 
a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  a  butternut,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  ^  tea- 
spoon of  pepper.  Have  ready  on  a  platter,  slices  of  bread  toasted 
brown,  and  buttered;  if  the  crusts  are  hard,  dip  the  edges  in  hot  wa- 
ter. Heat  the  minced  veal  thoroughly  hot,  pour  it  on  the  toast,  and 
serve  at  once. 

SWEETBREADS. — At  once  on  coming  from  the  butcher  (and 
that  should  be  as  soon  as  possible  after  the  animal  is  killed)  sweet- 
breads should  be  soaked  1  or  2  hours  in  cold  water,  and  then  cooked 
about  20  minutes  in  boiling  water  containing  1  teaspoon  each  of  salt 
and  lemon  juice;  then  plunge  them  into  cold  water  to  harden  them; 
take  out  and  put  into  a  towel  to  drain  out  all  the  water,  and  remove 
the  pipes  and  membranes.  They  may  then  be  cut  into  thin  slices 
and  broiled;  or  egged  and  bread^crumbed  and  fried  in  hot  fat;  or 
sauted;  or  stewed  in  a  very  little  water,  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pep- 
per and  butter.  Serve  with  any  of  the  meat  sauces  best  liked  by  the 
individual. 


140  MUTTON  AND  LAMB 

SWEETBREAD  CROQUETTES.— After  preparing  2  pairs  of 
sweetbreads  as  above,  cut  them  into  dice,  and  also  cut  up  and  add  ^ 
box  of  mushrooms.  Into  a  sauce=pan  put  1  large  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, and  when  it  bubbles,  sxDrinkle  in  1  tablespoon  of  flour;  cook 
well  and  add  |  cup  cream  or  soup  stock;  heat  and  add  the  sweet- 
breads and  mushrooms;  when  well  heated,  lift  from  the  fire  and  add 
yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten;  form  into  croquettes  when  cool,  then  egg 
and  bread=crumb,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

CREAMED  SWEETBREADS Prepare  as  above,  and  then  with 

a  silver  knife  pick  them  in  pieces;  then  put  1  tablespoon  butter  in  the 
sauce=pan;  melt  without  browning  it,  add  1  tablespoon  flour,  stir  till 
smooth;  add  1  cup  cream  and  the  sweetbreads,  stir  till  it  thickens; 
lift  from  the  stove,  season  with  salt  and  pepjaer  and  serve.  Time,  20 
to  30  minutes. 

Sweetbreads  consist  of  the  Thymus  Gland  found  in  the  neck  of  veal  and  lamb. 
It  decreases  in  size  and  flavor  as  the  animal  grows  older.  The  glands  are  found  in 
the  back  part  of  the  throat  and  in  the  breast.  There  should  always  be  2  of  them, 
although  they  are  sometimes  sold  separately.  The  heart  sweetbread  is  so  called 
because  it  lies  nearest  the  heart.  It  is  the  lower  one  and  is  round  in  shape.  The 
throat  sweetbread  is  the  upper  one,  and  is  long  and  narrow.  They  are  a  great  del- 
icacy (those  of  the  calf  are  most  esteemed)  and  if  properly  prepared  make  a  fine 
dish  to  tempt  the  appetite  of  the  invalid,  although  opinions  differ  somewhat  as  to 
their  digestibility.  The  pancreatic  gland  of  the  bullock  (that  is,  the  gland  near  the 
stomach  which  secretes  the  pancreatic  juice  which  aids  in  digesting  the  food)  is 
sometimes  sold  as  sweetbreads,  but  it  is  inferior  in  quality  to  the  thymus  gland  of 
young  animals  and  requires  long  and  careful  washing  and  cooking. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 

Within  the  limits  of  wholesomeness,  mutton  varies  immensely  in 
quality  and  flavor.  It  is  often  thought  more  digestible  than  beef  and 
is  therefore  j^rescribed  for  invalids.  All  young  meat  is  less  digestible 
and  is  also  less  nourishing  than  fulbgrown,  but  lamb  has  a  better  re- 
pute in  this  respect  than  veal.  Although  mutton  may  be  served  rare, 
lamb  should  be  thoroughly  cooked  always.  The  strong  flavor  of  mut- 
ton, which  is  disagreeable  to  many,  comes  from  the  penetration 
through  the  skin  of  the  oil  from  the  wool;  the  thin  outside  skin 
should  be  taken  off  before  cooking  the  meat.  Mutton  should  always 
be  served  on  hot  plates  in  the  winter,  never  allowing  any  cold  mutton 
tallow  to  appear  on  the  edges  and  disfigure  the  dish. 

BOILED  MUTTON.— Cut  off  the  superfluous  fat  from  a  breast  of 
mutton,  remove  as  much  of  the  bone  as  will  bring  it  into  shape  for 
the  kettle,  add  water  to  only  half  cover  it,  and  cover  the  kettle  tight- 
ly; let  it  boil  gently  for  an  hour,  then  turn  it  in  the  kettle,  and  sea- 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB  141 

son  with  salt,  pepper  and  herbs  if  liked.      Add  a  little  more  water  if 
needed,  and  boil  for  another  hour;  then  serve  with  caper  sauce. 

A  mutton  ham  can  be  boiled  in  the  above  manner  with  another 
half  hour's  time.  A  leg  of  lamb  also  can  be  cooked  in  this  way  in 
about  1|  hours. 

MUTTON  CHOPS.— Eemove  a  portion  of  the  fat  and  trim  them 
into  a  nice  shape;  place  the  gridiron  over  a  bright,  clear  fire,  rub  the 
bars  with  a  little  fat,  and  lay  on  the  chops.  Whilst  broiling,  frequent- 
ly turn  them,  and  in  about  8  minutes  they  will  be  done.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  hot  on  a  hot  dish.  Or  they  can  be  bak- 
ed in  a  dripping-pan  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  frequently;  they  are  very 
nice  this  way.  They  can  also  be  fried  on  a  frying=pan,  having  it  very 
hot,  and  using  no  other  fat  than  that  from  the  chop.  As  soon  as  one 
side  is  seared  (in  about  1  minute)  turn  over  on  the  other;  then  finish 
the  cooking  more  slowly.  Sprinkle  salt  on  each  side  when  almost 
done. 

MUTTON  AND  RICE.— Mince  into  dice,  pieces  of  cold  mutton 
or  lamb;  add  1  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice  to  1  cup  of  meat;  butter  the 
sauce=pan  thoroughly,  pour  in  a  little  water,  add  the  mutton  and 
rice,  and  stir  until  it  is  hot;  then  pour  in  2  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and 
stir  until  the  eggs  are  cooked.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

MUTTON  PATTIES — Mince  cold  mutton,  fat  and  lean  together, 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  if  the  mutton  is  lean,  add  a  piece 
of  butter  and  warm  all  together  in  a  sauce=pan,  with  a  little  water  to 
make  it  moist;  put  it  in  patty^pans,  and  cover  the  top  with  mashed 
potatoes;  put  a  bit  of  butter  in  a  little  dent  in  the  center  and  bake  in 
the  oven  to  a  delicate  brown — about  10  or  15  minutes,  Serve  hot 
in  the  patty^pans. 

MUTTON  PIES — Mince  coarsely,  cold  mutton,  fat  and  lean 
together,  and  put  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding^dish.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  with  a  little  butter  if  the  mutton  is  not  fat,  then 
cover  deeply  with  hot  mashed  potatoes;  set  in  the  oven  to  brown  a 
little,  and  to  let  the  pudding=dish  get  thoroughly  hot — about  10  or  15 
minutes.     Serve  with  hot  plates. 

Warming  cold  minced  meats,  as  a  pie  with  mashed  potatoes,  is  one  of  the  best 
ways  of  re=warming  any  kind  of  fish  or  cold  meat — the  moct  appe+.izing  and  the 
most  economical. 

MUTTON  OR  LAMB  PIE.— Out  finely,  bits  of  raw  mutton  or 
lamb;  put  to  stew  in  just  water  enough  to  cover,  and  cook  slowly 
until  the  bones,  if  there  are  any,  will  separate  from  the  meat.  Put 
them  in  a  pudding  disli,  season  and  thicken  the  gravy,  and  pour  over 


142  MUTTON  AND  LAMB 

the  meat  in  the  baking-dish.       Make  a  nice  baking= powder  biscuit 
dough,  and  cover  the  pie;  bake  until  the  crust  is  a  golden  brown. 

MUTTON  RECHAUFFE — Slice  an  onion  and  fry  it  brown  in 
the  pan,  with  a  little  good  butter;  then  put  in  a  pint  of  good  stock, 
or  water,  if  you  have  no  stock,  and  let  it  come  to  boiling.  Thicken 
with  a  teaspoon  of  corn-starch  wet  in  a  little  water.  When  it  has 
boiled,  strain  out  the  onion,  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Have 
cold  sliced  mutton  on  a  hot  platter;  pour  the  hot  sauce  over  it,  and 
send  to  the  breakfast  table  with  hot  plates.      Time,  20  to  30  minutes, 

SCRAMBLED  MUTTON.— Take  2  cups  of  cold  chopped  mutton 
or  lamb,  2  tablespoons  of  hot  water,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
English  walnut.  When  the  meat  is  hot,  break  into  it  3  eggs  and 
cook  until  the  eggs  begin  to  stiffen,  stirring  constantly.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt.     Time,  10  to  20  minutes. 

IRISH  STEW — This  is  a  nice  and  economical  dish,  and  can  be 
made  from  any  kind  of  meat,  the  best  being  the  best  end  of  the  neck 
of  mutton.  Remove  nearly  all  the  fat  from  2  lbs.  of  meat,  and  cut  it 
into  chops.  Peel  and  slice  3  lbs.  potatoes,  and  also  slice  1^  pounds 
onions.  Put  a  layer  of  potatoes  in  the  kettle,  then  a  layer  of  onions, 
then  meat;  pepper  and  salt  it  well,  and  so  put  in  all  the  materials  in 
layers.  Add  1  or  2  cups  water,  cover  closely,  and  let  it  stew  {not 
boil)  2  or  3  hours. 

SCOTCH  STEW. — Cut  2  pounds  of  fresh  mutton  into  small 
pieces;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  3  quarts  of  cold  water  and  a 
tablespoon  of  salt;  set  it  upon  the  fire,  and  cook  very  slowly,  letting 
it  simmer,  and  keeping  it  well  skimmed.  After  it  has  simmered  an 
hour,  add  a  large  carrot,  2  turnips,  2  large  onions,  all  cut  in  pieces, 
and  2  small  heads  of  cabbage.  Let  the  whole  simmer  until  tender, 
1  to  1^  hours,  and  serve  it  with  the  various  ingredients. 

MUTTON  AND  TOMATOES— Out  cold  roast  mutton  in  thin 
slices,  fat  and  lean  together;  put  it  on  a  hot  platter,  and  pour  over  it 
5  or  6  tomatoes,  stewed,  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  a  bay  leaf,  a 
little  pulverized  sage,  and  a  bit  of  onion,  if  liked.  If  the  mutton  is 
lean,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  to  the  tomatoes.  There 
should  not  be  much  juice  of  the  tomatoes,  and  the  excess  should  be 
poured  off  before  seasoning.  Good  for  breakfast  with  baked  potatoes 
and  toast 

BOILED  SHEEP'S  TONGUES. -Boil  ^  doz.  tongues  until  ten- 
der, in  water  which  is  salted  and  contains  the  juice  of  -^  a  lemon 
Serve  cold.  Sauce  Tartare  is  excellent  to  serve  with  them.  Time  to 
boil  2  or  3  hours,  slowly. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB  143 

ESCALLOPED  LAMB.— Chop  coarsely,  cold  lamb,  either  baked 
or  boiled,  and  put  a  layer  in  a  pudding^dish  with  a  sprinkle  of  salt 
and  pepper,  and  little  bits  of  butter,  then  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs, 
and  thus  fill  the  dish,  having  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  the  top;  fill  the 
dish  with  hot  water  up  to  the  top  layer  of  crumbs,  and  bake  until  the 
crumbs  are  browned — about  1  hour. 

LAMB'S  LIVER,  CURRIED.—Cut  it  in  convenient  slices  to 
serve,  soak  in  salted  water  for  5  minutes,  while  an  onion  is  frying  in 
salt  pork  fat;  take  the  liver  from  the  water,  dry  in  a  cloth,  then  put 
it  into  a  pan  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides.  Have  the  fat  hot,  and  fry 
quickly.  When  brown,  add  a  little  water  or  stock,  dust  with  salt  and 
a  little  curry  powder,  cover,  and  simmer  10  minutes. 

LAMB,  GRILLED — Take  a  cold  shoulder  of  lamb,  and  score 
the  meat  deeply  at  |  inch  distances;  prepare  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  of 
white  pepper,  a  saltspoon  of  cayenne,  a  trifle  of  onion  juice,  and  the 
strained  juice  of  a  lemon;  rub  this  into  the  meat  at  night.  In  the 
morning,  put  it  on  a  gridiron  over  a  clear,  coal  fire,  and  thoroughly 
heat  through ;  put  on  a  hot  platter  and  spread  with  softened  butter. 
Send  to  the  table  with  hot  plates. 

KID — This  is  cooked  in  the  various  ways  given  for  lamb,  and  is 
much  like  lamb  after  being  cooked. 

SHEEP'S  BRAINS. — Kemove  the  skin  and  blood  vessels  and 
put  them  in  warm  water  for  2  hours;  then  put  them  in  boiling  water, 
containing  a  little  salt  and  vinegar,  and  leave  until  firm;  then  take 
out  and  put  in  very  cold  water.  Then  drain,  dry,  brush  with  oil,  and 
roll  in  crumbs,  well  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put  slices  of 
bacon  on  them,  and  bake  in  a  well  heated  oven,  basting  frequently. 
When  nicely  browned,  take  up,  put  the  slices  of  bacon  on  toast,  and 
lay  the  brains  on  the  bacon.  Serve  with  tomato,  Tartare,  or  some 
acid  sauce. 

MEAT    ROLY    POLY. 

4  cups  flour.  1  teacup  milk. 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Do  not  use  any  shortening,  but  mix  and  roll  out  ^  inch  thick, 
and  spread  minced  mutton,  Yeal  or  chicken  on  it.  Have  the  meat 
free  from  gristle,  and  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt.  Tlien  roll  the 
crust  over  and  over,  and  put  it  on  a  buttered  plate,  and  steam  in  the 
steamer  |-  hour.  Serve  for  breakfast  or  lunch,  giving  a  slice  to  each 
person,  with  gravy  served  with  it. 


144  PORK 

PORK. 

Pork,  more  than  any  other  meat,  requires  to  be  chosen  with  the 
greatest  care.  If  it  is  killed  and  the  flesh  eaten  when  in  an  un- 
healthy condition,  those  who  eat  it  will  probably  pay  dearly  for  their 
indulgence.  Care  should  be  taken  that  pork  is  thoroughly  cooked, 
as  it  is  most  indigestible  when  under-dressed.  Uncooked  or  under= 
cooked  pork  should  on  no  account  be  eaten.  Exposure  to  the  tem- 
perature of  boiling  water  effectually  kills  the  trichina,  but  obviously 
every  part  of  the  meat,  inside  and  out,  must  be  fully  heated  to 
destroy  all  the  trichina,  and  there  is  no  safety  without  that. 

To  freshen  salt  pork  or  ham,  after  cutting  in  slices,  soak  it  for  a 
few  hours,  or  over  night,  in  milk  and  water,  or  in  sour  milk,  which  is 
quite  as  good;  afterv/ards  rinse  it  until  the  water  is  clear,  before 
frying,  and  it  will  be  as  palatable  as  salt  pork  can  be  made. 

BAKED  HAM — Cover  the  ham  with  cold  water  (after  having 
thoroughly  cleaned  it)  and  simmer  gently  just  long  enough  to  loosen 
the  skin,  so  that  it  can  be  easily  taken  ofp — in  2  or  3  hours,  if  the 
ham  is  large.  After  skinning,  place  it  in  a  dripping-pan  in  the  oven, 
and  pour  over  it  a  teacup  of  vinegar,  and  1  of  water;  put  a  little 
mustard  in  the  v/ater,  and  baste  the  ham  with  this  while  baking 
slowly  for  an  hour;  then  cover  the  ham  all  over  thickly  with  sugar, 
in  which  is  mixed  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  bake  slowly  another 
hour  wUhoui  hasUng.  This  gives  a  nice,  brown,  glazed  crust;  when 
it  has  partly  cooled,  turn  a  flat  dish  on  the  pot,  and  put  a  weight  on 
it,  to  get  thoroughly  cold.  This  latter  process  insures  nice,  smooth 
slices  when  cut.  The  juice  of  a  lemon  may  be  substituted  for  the 
vinegar,  if  preferred. 

HAM  BALLS.— With  ^  cup  of  bread  crumbs  mix  2  well=beaten 
eggs  and  some  finely=chopped  ham;  season  with  pepper  and  a  very 
little  salt;  make  into  balls,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

BOILED  HAM.— To  boil  a  ham  it  must  first  be  thoroughly 
washed  and  scraped  in  warm  water,  containing  a  little  baking-soda; 
'ihen  rinse  in  cold  water,  put  it  over  the  fire,  skin  side  upward  in  the 
kettle,  with  water  enough  to  completely  cover  it;  let  it  slowly  simmer 
3  or  4  hours,  according  to  the  size ;  if  it  cooks  rapidly,  it  will  break  in 
pieces.  When  done,  take  it  from  the  kettle  and  remove  the  skin 
while  hot,  leaving  on  all  the  fat;  stick  cloves  all  over  the  fat  part,  and 
put  it  into  the  oven,  to  brown  a  little.  It  should  be  entirely  cold  be- 
fore it  is  cut.  Both  lean  and  fat  should  be  served  in  carving,  as 
many  persons  like  the  latter  best.  Mustard,  spiced  vinegar,  catsup, 
or  pickles,  are  used  as  ©oiad<iTr!'^r+<=  with  this. 


POKK  145 

BROILED  HAM.— Ham  is  better  broiled  than  fried.  Slice  it 
thin,  and  broil  the  slices  on  a  gridiron,  and  when  done  on  both  sides, 
place  on  a  platter  with  a  fried  egg  on  each  slice.  It  should  be  broil- 
ed over  bright,  hot  coals,  from  3  to  6  minutes. 

HAM  PATTIES.— Take  1  pint  of  cold  boiled  ham,  finely  chop- 
ped; mix  it  with  an  equal  quantity  of  bread  crumbs  wet  in  milk  to 
make  a  soft  batter;  put  the  batter  in  patty=pans,  break  a  fresh  egg 
over  each  pan,  sprinkle  the  top  of  each  dish  thickly  with  cracker 
crumbs,  and  bake  until  brown  on  the  top — about  1^  hours. 

ROAST  PIG.— The  pig  should  weigh  12  pounds  at  least,  be- 
fore dressing;  the  butcher  should  dress  it,  leaving  on  the  head  and 
feet,  and  clean  thoroughly;  the  harslet  should  be  sent  with  the 
pig.  First  cook  the  liver  and  heart  by  boiling  about  20  minutes  in  a 
little  salted  water;  then  chop  them  finely.  Cut  a  loaf  of  bread  in 
slices  and  dip  in  cold  water,  chop,  and  add  to  the  harslet;  pour  over 
it  a  teacup  of  melted  butter,  and  2  welhbeaten  eggs;  season  with  pep- 
per, salt,  sage,  and  onions  if  liked.  Mix  all  together,  and  fill  the  pig; 
then  sew  it  together.  Bend  the  front  legs  under  at  the  knees,  and 
the  hind  legs  forward  at  the  gambrel  joint;  put  a  stick  in  the  mouth 
to  keep  it  open,  wind  a  cord  around  to  keep  the  legs  in  place;  put  in 
the  dripping=pan  with  a  little  water,  and  tin  dishes  on  each  side  to 
keep  it  on  the  knees.  Bake  until  done — 2  to  3  hours.  Baste  fre- 
quently, using  melted  butter  at  first;  do  not  let  it  burn.  Put  a 
small  red  apple  or  lemon  in  the  mouth  before  sending  to  the  table, 
and  'serve  with  baked  sour  apples. 

ROAST  PORK — The  loin,  chine  or  spare  ribs  are  best  for  roast- 
ing. Rub  on  salt,  pepper  and  flour,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven; 
baste  often.  Time,  about  20  minutes  to  the  pound.  It  is  best  eaten 
cold. 

BOILED  PIGS'  FEET— The  2  front  feet  should  be  cleaned, 
scraped,  and  to  keep  them  in  shape  wrap  them  tightly  in  muslin,  and 
sew  or  tie  it  up;  boil  6  or  7  hours  moderately;  then  let  them  cool, 
take  off  the  wraj)ping  and  they  will  be  like  jelly.  They  can  then  be 
split,  rolled  in  crumbs,  and  broiled  or  fried.  Some  acid  sauce  should 
be  served  with  them. 

SPARE=R1BS  AND  CHINES — These  are  usually  too  fat  to  cook 
in  any  other  way  than  by  baking  or  roasting  in  the  oven;  in  this  way 
much  of  the  superfluous  fat  is  drawn  from  them.  Rub  them  well  with 
a  little  fine  salt,  flour,  pepper  and  pulverized  sage,  if  liked;  put  them 
on  the  rack  in  the  dripping-pan,  containing  a  pint  of  hot  water;  the 

10 


146  PORK 

3ven  must  be  hot,  but  not  enough  to  scorch  the  meat;  baste  often. 
The  meat  should  bake  about  2  hours,  or  until  it  is  well  browned ;  then 
take  it  up,  pour  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  at  one  corner  of  the  drip- 
ping-pan, and  thicken  the  remainder  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  or 
corn^starch;  add  a  little  water  to  make  about  a  pint  of  gravy.  Serve 
with  sour  baked  apples,  onions,  potatoes  and  mashed  turnips.  Shoul- 
der chine  of  pork,  and  loin,  are  cooked  in  the  same  manner. 

Pork  requires  long  and  thorough  cooking,  for  the  texture  of  the  flesh  is  close; 
fresh  spappsribs  particularly  require  it,  to  extract  all  the  superfluous  fat,  and  it 
should  be  roasted  or  baked  until  of  a  rich  brown  color. 

Chine  of  Poek. — The  chine  of  an  animal  is  the  back»bone  with  the  meat 
attached,  and  griskin  (a  term  obsolete  in  this  country)  is  used  in  England  to  desig- 
nate the  backsbone  of  swine,  and  particularly  that  part  lying  between  the  shoul- 
ders of  the  animal.  The  chine  of  pork  is  more  often  divided  into  "  fore  loin,"  that 
part  lying  between  the  shoulders;  "  spare=ribs,"  or  that  part  containing  the  long 
ribs,  and  "hind^oin,"  or  small  part  of  the  spine  just  above  the  hams.  In  Eng- 
land, the  hind=loin  is  sometimes  called  a  chine  when  the  bone  is  uncut  and  the  two 
sides  of  the  loin  are  in  one  piece,  corresponding  to  the  "baron  of  beef,"  or  "saddle 
of  mutton."  In  England  these  are  all  roasted,  but  in  this  country  (the  land  of 
Yankee  cooking=stoves)  all  divisions  of  the  chine  are  cooked  exactly  like  the  mid- 
dle pieces  or  spare=ribs. 

PORK  CUTLETS. — Take  the  remains  of  cold  baked  pork  and  cut 
it  in  nice  pieces  of  the  right  size  to  serve;  put  a  little  of  the  cold  fat 
in  a  frying-pan  and  let  it  get  hot;  fry  a  sliced  onion  brown,  then  lay 
in  the  cutlets,  and  fry  them  a  light  brown  in  the  fat  with  the  onions; 
take  them  up,  and  make  a  gravy  with  a  little  corn=starch  and  cold 
water;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  when  thickened,  pour  it  over 
the  cutlets  and  serve. 

PORK  AND  EGGS— Cut  2  or  3  slices  of  salt  pork  in  dice,  and 
fry,  often  turning  it  over  and  over  with  a  fork;  then  break  5  or  6 
fresh  eggs  and  put  them  in  the  pan  with  the  pork;  stir  all  together 
rapidly,  and  cook  until  the  eggs  are  set. 

PORK  RECHAUFFE  {Reheated) .—Cut  finely,  cold  roast  pork, 
put  a  layer  of  this  in  the  bottom  of  a  pan  or  pudding=dish  and  season 
to  taste;  then  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  another  layer  of  cold  pork, 
thus  fill  the  dish;  have  a  layer  of  fine  crumbs  on  the  top,  but  before 
putting  them  on,  pour  into  the  dish  enough  broth  or  water  to  moist- 
en the  ingredients;  then  i^ut  crumbs  on  the  top,  and  bake  until  brown 
on  top,  about  f  to  1  hour.  Cold  baked  or  roasted  j)ork  is  more  often 
served  cold,  nicely  sliced,  and  sent  to  the  table  with  hot  baked,  or 
mashed  potatoes. 

PORK  STEAKS.— Take  slices  of  fresh  pork  that  have  the  fat 
and  lean  well  blended,  put  on  a  hot  gridiron  and  broil  it  thoroughly, 
over  a  clear  coal  fire,  turning  often,  and  lifting  if  the  dropping   fat 


PORK  147 

blazes  to  scorch  the  meat;  put  it  on  a  hot  platter,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
and  send  in  with  baked  potatoes. 

FRIED  SALT  PORK — This  is  a  most  excellent  dish  when  prop- 
erlj^  prepared,  for  those  who  are  blessed  with  a  good  digestion.  The 
pork  should  be  of  the  best  quality  and  "  clear  fat."  Cut  the  slices 
nearly  ^  of  an  inch  thick,  take  off  the  rind,  put  in  a  hot  frying-pan, 
and  fry  until  crisp.  Place  the  pork  around  the  .edge  of  the  platter, 
fry  a  few  eggs  for  the  center,  and  serve.  Salt  pork  is -sometimes 
dipped  in  flour  or  yellow  corn-meal  before  frying,  and  is  excellent. 
After  taking  up  the  pork,  a  nice  milk  gravy  can  be  made  by  adding 
corn-starch  or  flour  to  milk;  pour  it  into  the  hot  fat  from  the  pork, 
and  stir  until  it  is  thickened  and  well  blended.  This  gravy  is  good 
with  new  potatoes;  also  delicious  with  buck= wheat  muffins. 

SOUSE — Clean  the  ears,  feet  and  gristly  part  (not  the  fat)  of 
the  pig's  head;  let  them  soak  12  hours  in  brine,  then  take  out,  scrape 
clean,  and  soak  again  in  fresh  brine.  Then  wash,  put  them  in  cold 
water,  and  boil  gently  until  the  bones  loosen  from  the  meat.  Then 
put  the  meat  in  jars  (not  earthenware,  or  the  vinegar  will  act  on  it) 
and  cover  with  boiling  hot  spiced  vinegar. 

SOUSE  PIE — Cut  the  toes  from  the  pig's  feet,  and  use  the  legs 
up  to  the  ham.  Soak  and  clean  well;  cut  in  pieces,  and  boil  in 
water  to  cover,  with  a  little  salt,  until  tender.  Add  a  little  boiling 
water  from  time  to  time  as  it  evaporates,  and  turn  the  meat  from  the 
bottom  of  the  kettle  with  a  skimmer  to  prevent  burning.  Take  out 
the  meat  when  done,  and  remove  the  bones;  put  the  meat  in  a  pan, 
or  large  pudding^dish,  adding  a  little  more  salt  if  necessary;  thicken 
the  broth  with  corn^starch  and  pour  over  the  meat;  cover  it  with 
baking-powder  biscuit  dough,  and  bake  until  the  dough  is  well 
browned.     Cheap  and  good.     Time,  altogether,  4  or  5  hours. 

SALT  PORK  DINNER.— Cut  enough  slices  of  salt  pork  to 
cover  the  bottom  of  the  frying=pan;  take  off  the  rind;  pour  hot  water 
over  the  pork  and  turn  it  off  immediately;  dip  each  slice  in  flour,  and 
fry  it  brown  on  both  sides;  take  it  up  on  a  platter  and  keep  warm. 
Pour  nearly  all  the  fat  into  another  frying-pan  and  fill  it  with  sour 
apples  already  sliced,  with  the  skins  on.  Sprinkle  the  apples  with  a 
little  salt,  and  cover  tightly  with  a  deep,  white  pie=plate;  stew  until 
the  apples  are  soft.  In  the  meantime  add  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  to  the 
fat  left  in  the  first  pan;  let  it  simmer,  then  thicken  with  a  little  flour 
or  corn=starch,  and  send  it  to  the  table  in  a  bowl  or  gravy-boat. 
Serve  with  new  potatoes  and  sweet=corn. 


148  POULTRY 

PORK  WORST. — Cut  a  pig's  head  in  pieces,  and  soak,  with  the 
liver  and  heart,  over  night  in  slightly  salted  water.  The  next  morn- 
ing wash  and  put  it  over  the  fire  to  cook  slowly,  in  just  water  enough 
to  cover  it.  When  the  bones  will  separate,  take  them  all  out,  and 
cut  the  meat  in  very  small  pieces;  return  to  the  kettle,  add  salt,  pep- 
per, and  any  sweet  herbs  liked;  then  thicken  it  to  the  consistency  of 
mush,  with  flour;  fill  square  baking^pans  with  it,  and  let  it  get  cold; 
then  slice,  dip  in  flour,  and  fry  in  salt  pork  fat. 

HEAD  CHEESE  {English  Brawn). — The  cheeks  of  pig's  heads 
are  reserved  for  salting  with  the  hams  and  shoulders;  the  remainder 
is  cut  in  pieces  and  soaked  over  night  in  salted  water;  the  next  morn- 
ing wash  thoroughly,  and  put  over  the  fire  in  a  kettle  with  just  water 
enough  to  cover  the  meat  (the  cleansed  pig's  feet  may  be  added). 
Simmer  slowly  until  the  bones  will  easily  separate  from  the  meat, 
then  take  it  up  in  a  pan  and  pick  out  every  bone;  cut  the  meat  in 
small  pieces,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepjDer,  and  sifted  sage;  pour 
over  the  broth  from  the  kettle,  and  put  it  in  a  cold  pantry  to  harden. 
When  thoroughly  cold,  remove  the  fat  from  the  top  of  the  pan,  cut 
in  slices,  and  serve  with  hot  baked,  or  mashed  potatoes. 

SAUSAGES,  TO  COOK.— Sausage  cakes  are  usually  fried; 
when  they  are  in  skins,  they  should  be  pricked  to  prevent  them  from 
bursting,  and  they  should  be  turned  on  all  sides  to  insure  thorough 
cooking.  Sausages,  especially  those  made  of  pork,  should  always  be 
v/ell  cooked,  and  should  never  look  red  in  the  center  when  cut. 
They  are  best  baked,  as  they  are  then  cooked  slowly  and  are  more 
thoroughly  browned  than  when  fried.  Serve  with  baked  potatoes,  or 
mashed  potatoes  and  other  vegetables.  The  large  Bologna  sausages, 
made  of  beef  mostly,  require  a  long  and  thorough  boiling  for  3  or  4 
hours;  they  are  then  dried  and  smoked.  They  are  usually  prepared 
and  cooked  by  the  butcher,  and  are  eaten  cold.  The  best  thing  to 
serve  with  pork  sausages  is  apple-sauce.  They  garnish  a  roast 
turkey  nicely. 


POULTRY. 

In  selecting  poultry,  choose  those  which  are  plump,  but  not  too 
fat.  If  they  are  young,  they  should  be  firm  to  the  touch.  If  the 
bone  across  the  breast  above  the  hollow  skin  is  hard  to  the  touch,  the 
bird  is  old;  in  young  ones  it  is  more  like  gristle.  Whitedegged  birds 
are  given  the  preference  by  some,  because  they  look  better  on  the 
table,  but  bte&k  are  equally  good  eating.     Dark=fleshed  game  can  be 


POULTRY  149 

eaten  rare,  but  the  white^fleshed  should  always  be  well  done.  In 
preparing  poultry  great  care  is  required  not  to  break  the  gall-bladder, 
for  if  it  is  broken,  the  gall  will  leave  a  bitter  taste  on  every  place  it 
touches,  which  cannot  be  washed  off. 

Young  poultry  has  not  an  excess  of  fat  unless  it  has  been 
"  crammed  "  for  that  purpose,  in  which  case  it  should  be  avoided,  as 
that  process  affects  the  health  of  the  fowls. 

Slightly  Tainted  Meat. — Poultry  and  all  meats  should  be  cooked 
immediately  if  the  least  sign  of  taint  appears;  give  it  first  a  thorough 
washing  in  soda  water,  then  a  rinsing  in  clear  water  to  which  a  little 
vinegar  has  been  added;  then  either  bake  or  roast  it,  as  that  mode  of 
cooking  drives  away  bad  odors  from  meat  better  than  any  other. 

Onion. — It  is  better  to  leave  onions  out  of  all  meat  dressings,  un- 
less you  are  sure  they  are  liked  by  all  at  the  table.  A  rich  onion 
sauce  can  be  sent  in  with  them,  or  boiled-  onions  served  as  one  veg- 
etable, for  those  who  like  them. 

Overcoming  the  Strong  Smel!  of  Old  Fowls. — If  old  fowls  are  washed 
in  warm  soda  water,  the  strong  smell  will  be  overcome. 

If  a  roast  fowl  cannot  be  served  as  soon  as  it  is  done,  put  it 
over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  put  a  dripping-pan  over  it,  which 
will  keep  it  from  drying  up. 

The  Garnishes  for  Fowls. — These  are  parsley,  water  cress,  horserad- 
ish, slices  of  lemon,  slices  of  ham,  fried  oysters  or  sausages,  and 
forcemeat-balls. 

To  Draw  a  Fowl. — Place  the  fowl  on  its  back,  and  make  a  slit 
lengthwise  in  the  skin  of  the  neck  from  the  body  to  the  head;  free 
the  neck  from  the  skin,  and  cut  off  the  neck  as  close  to  the  body  as 
possible;  then  cut  the  skin,  leaving  a  flap  at  least  8  inches  long 
hanging  to  the  breast.  Loosen  the  crop  and  the  windpipe,  and  insert 
the  first  finger,  keeping  it  close  to  the  inside  surface  of  the  body; 
work  it  round,  breaking  all  the  ligaments  with  which  it  comes  in 
contact,  thus  loosening  the  contents  of  the  carcass.  Be  careful 
not  to  thrust  the  finger  into  the  centre,  for  if  the  gall-bladder  is 
broken,  the  gall  will  imi^art  a  bitter  taste  to  whatever  it  may  touch. 
Turn  the  bird,  slightly  enlarge  the  opening  at  the  vent,  insert  the 
finger,  and  loosen  the  insides  from  the  carcass  at  that  end.  Turn  the 
bird  again,  and  place  it  on  its  back;  press  the  breast  with  the 
thumbs,  and  push  out  the  gizzard  by  the  hole  at  the  vent;  take  hold 
of  it  and  pull  steadily,  when  the  whole  of  the  interior  should  be 
brought  away  entire.  If  all  the  insides  are  removed,  little  washing 
will  be  needed.  Wipe  it  out  with  a  damp  cloth,  or  rinse  quickly  and 
wipe  dry.      If  the  breast  bone  protrudes  too  much,  put  a  cloth  over 


150  POULTRY 

it  and  beat  it  down  flat,  putting  something  like  a  pestle  inside  to 
pound  on. 

To  Truss  a  Fowl. — After  stuSing  the  fowl,  sew  the  skin  of  the 
neck  over  the  back.  Then  run  a  long  skewer  through  the  pinion 
and  then  through  the  body  and  out  through  the  other  pinion,  press- 
ing them  close  to  the  body.  Also  press  a  skewer  through  the 
thigh  and  body  and  out  through  the  other  thigh.  Pass  a  string  over 
the  projecting  ends  of  the  skewers  and  tie  it  firmly  at  the  back,  to 
keep  the  bird  firmly  trussed.  The  legs  can  be  crossed  over  the  tail 
and  firmly  tied.  The  wings  and  thighs  can  be  tied  in  place  by 
winding  a  string  around  the  body,  if  you  have  no  skewers;  cut  the 
string  off  carefully  when  done,  so  as  not  to  tear  the  flesh. 

Boned  Poultry. — Cut  through  the  skin  down  the  center  of  the 
back,  and  raise  the  flesh  carefully  on  either  side,  with  the  point  of 
a  sharp  knife,  until  the  sockets  of  the  wings  and  thighs  are  reached. 
Until  a  little  practice  has  been  gained,  it  will  perhaps  be  best  to 
bone  their  joints  before  proceeding  further;  but  after  they  are  once 
detached  from  it,  the  whole  body  may  be  easily  separated  from  the 
flesh,  and  taken  out  entire;  only  the  neck,  bones,  and  the  merry = 
thought  will  then  remain  to  be  removed.  The  fowl  thus  prepared 
may  either  (1)  be  restored  to  its  original  form  by  filling  the  legs  and 
wings  with  stufiing;  the  body  of  the  bird,  also,  should  be  filled 
with  stuffing,  and  then  the  skin  on  the  back  should  be  sewn  together, 
and  the  fowl  trussed  as  usual.  Or  (2)  the  legs  and  wings  may  be 
drawn  into  the  body,  and  the  remaining  space  be  filled  with  the 
dressing. 

Plain  Dressing. — Take  slices  of  stale  bread  (do  not  remove  the 
crusts)  dip  it  in  cold  water,  and  clioj)  in  the  tray;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  for  ^  loaf  of  bread  soften  a  teacup  of  butter 
and  stir  into  the  bread;  add  a  beaten  raw  egg  and  stir  that  in  well. 
Fill  the  cavity  in  the  fish  or  meat,  but  do  not  crowd  it  in;  sew  up, 
or  wind  the  meat  with  a  string,  and  when  done,  this  will  be  light 
and  crumbly — not  pasty,  as  when  made  with  hot  water,  nor  hard,  as 
when. stuffed  into  the  fish  or  fowl.  This  is  excellent  for  fish,  poul- 
try, game,  etc. 

Poultry  Stuffing.— Take  a  loaf  of  light  bread,  chop  fine;  add  a 
little  melted  butter,  or  cream,  and  2  eggs.  Some  savory  summer 
celery  leaves  improve  it  often,  with  warm  water  and  milk. 

Various  Stuffings.— For  fowls  a  variety  may  be  had  by  adding  to 
the  i^lain  dressing,  dates,  stoned  raisins,  chopped  celery,  etc.  A  little 
ingenuity  will  devise  many  varieties. 


POULTKY  151 

Oyster  Stuffing. — Take  a  small  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  remove  the 
crust,  and  crumb  the  bread  very  fine;  pour  on  hot  water  enough 
to  moisten  it,  and  cover  it  tight.  Chop  1  large  onion  and  a  qt, 
of  oysters,  take  ^  cup  of  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  powdered 
sage,  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  all  together,  and  if  the  oyster  liquor 
does  not  make  it  moist  enough,  add  a  little  more  hot  water. 

Chestnut  Stuffing — Blanch,  boil,  and  mash,  12  large  chestnuts. 
Cook  the  liver  of  the  fowl,  mince  it  fine,  and 
add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  each  of  salt 
and  minced  onion,  1  tablespoon  chopped  ham,  2 
tablespoons  grated  bread,  a  little  lemon  juice  and 
white  pepper;  mix  all  with  the  mashed  chestnuts^ 
and  use  for  stuffing. 


The  chestnut  is  said  to  have  come  originally  from  Lydia. 
It  has  been  used  for  food  from  very  ancient  times.  It  attains 
a  great  age.  As  a  food  it  is  the  least  oily  of  all  the  nuts,  and 
the  easiest  of  digestion.  It  contains  15  per  cent,  of  sugar, 
and  a  large  proportion  of  starch.  They  can  be  preserved  so 
as  to  keep  good  for  years.  The  tree  called  horse=chestnut  is 
altogether  different  and  its  fruit  is  not  suitable  to  eat.  chestnut. 

BOILED  CHICKEN — Pluck,  singe,  wash,  and  bone  them,  fill 
with  any  dressing  liked;  do  not  crowd  in  the  dressing;  sew  up,  and 
boil  gently  for  an  hour  or  more.  To  prevent  the  skin  from  breaking, 
roll  each  one  up  in  a  separate  cloth.  For  salads,  and  cold  sliced 
chicken,  they  may  be  boiled  in  a  kettle  with  the  v/ater  slightly 
salted,  and  without  the  dressing.  Boil  until  the  meat  will  start  from 
the  bones,  and  let  them  get  entirely  cold  before  cutting  for  salads; 
then  they  can  be  skinned  and  all  the  meat  served  in  a  much  nicer 
manner  than  when  the  bones  are  taken  out  before  cooling. 

CHICKEN  FRICASSEE— Take  2  young  chickens,  cut  them 
up,  put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  merely  cover  with  cold  water,  cover  with 
the  pan,  and  stew  until  tender;  then  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
2  tablespoons  of  butter,  A  little  celery  can  be  added  if  liked.  Add 
2  tablespoons  of  flour,  wet  with  a  little  milk  or  water,  and  the  well 
beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  which  are  mixed  with  a  little  of  the  cooled 
gravy,  before  being  added;  bring  all  to  a  boil,  and  then  put  the 
chicken  on  a  warm  plate,  and  pour  on  part  of  the  gravy,  sending  the 
balance  to  the  table  in  a  boat.  If  old  fowls  are  used,  they  will  need 
longer  stewing  than  chicken— 3  or  4  hours  being  none  too  much. 

SOUTHERN  FRICASSEE.— Cut  up  chicken  as  for  a  fricassee. 
Dry  each  piece  and  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  cracker  dust;  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  each  piece  very  brown  in  half 
butter  and  half  lard.     When  well  browned,  add  1  cup  of  hot  water, 


152  POULTRY 

cover  and  simmer  ^  hour.  Then  take  out  chicken  and  put  on  plate 
in  warming  oven.  Have  ready  a  bowl  of  rice — cooked;  put  it  into 
frying=pan  which  the  chicken  liquid  has  simmered  in,  add  2  toma- 
toes, chopped  fine,  a  chili  pepper,  also  choj^ped  fine.  Toss  all 
together  lightly  with  a  fork.  Pile  high  in  the  center  of  platter  and 
lay  around  it  the  pieces  of  fried  chicken;  garnish  with  stoned  olives. 

CHICKEN  CHEESE — Take  2  chickens,  boiled  tender,  chopped 
not  too  fine,  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  hard  3  or  4 
eggs,  and  slice,  with  which  line  molds  and  pour  in  the  chickens, 
adding  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  boiled.  When  perfectly  cold, 
slice  for  luncheon,  or  Sunday  tea,  or  for  sandwiches. 

ESCALLOPED  CHICKEN.— Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  irreg- 
ular pieces;  remove  all  the  meat  from  a  cooked  chicken  and  cut  it 
into  small  pieces;  make  a  sauce  of  1  pint  of  milk  and  1  beaten  egg, 
seasoned  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  put  a  layer  of  the  meat  in  a 
pudding-dish,  then  a  layer  of  potatoes,  and  sauce  to  cover  them; 
another  layer  of  meat  and  potatoes,  and  cover  the  whole  with  cracker 
crumbs,  moistened  with  melted  butter;  bake  ^  an  hour. 

CHICKEN  LOAF — Boil  2  chickens  in  as  little  water  as  possible 
to  cook  them  without  burning,  until  the  meat  will  droj)  from  the 
bones.  Remove  the  meat  from  the  bones  and  cut  it  fine  without 
chopping.  Put  it  back  in  the  kettle,  with  plenty  of  butter,  pepper 
and  salt;  heat  it  thoroughly.  Slice  a  hard-boiled  egg  in  the  bottom 
of  a  dish,  pour  the  chicken  over  it  hot,  place  a  weight  upon  it  and 
set  in  a  cool  place.     When  cool,  it  will  come  out  in  a  form. 

CHICKEN  AND  OYSTERS— Take  a  nice,  tender  chicken,  and 
split  it  down  the  back,  and  after  cleaning  it  well,  pound  all  the  bones 
flat;  wash  and  wipe  it  dry;  season  with  pej)per  and  salt,  and  fry  in 
sweet  lard  until  tender  and  brown  on  both  sides;  put  it  on  a  platter 
and  keep  it  warm.  Make  a  gravy  in  the  pan  (after  pouring  out  the 
fat)  with  ^  pint  of  water,  a  piece  of  butter,  and  flour  for  thickening, 
or  use  ^  pint  of  cream  without  the  butter,  if  preferred.  Have  ready 
about  25  large  oysters  washed  clean  in  salt  and  water,  then  dried  in  a 
towel,  and  add  them  to  the  gravy  when  it  comes  to  boiling;  plump 
them  in  the  hot  gravy,  and  pour  on  the  dish  of  chicken.  Serve  hot. 
Time,  about  ^  hour. 

CHICKEN  PATTIES.— Take  1  pint  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  of 
corn=starch,  1  pint  of  cooked  chicken,  chopped  coarsely.  Let  half 
the  cream  come  to  a  boil  in  a  stew-pan.  Mix  tlie  remainder  of  the 
cream  with  the  corn=starch,  and  add  as  soon  as  it  boils;  when  this 


POULTEY  153 

thickens,  take  off  the  fire,  add  the  chopped  chicken,  and  season  to 
taste  with  salt,  white  pepper,  and  any  other  seasoning  liked.  Line 
patty=pans,  small  saucers,  or  sauce=plates,  with  rich  pie^crust,  and 
bake.  When  all  is  cold,  place  a  heaping  spoon  of  the  chicken  on 
each  crust  and  serve. 

CHICKEN  PIE. — Cut  the  chicken  in  small  pieces  as  for  frying, 
and  stew  in  just  water  sufficient  to  cover  it,  with  a  little  salt,  until 
the  meat  begins  to  separate  from  the  bones;  take  it  out,  pick  out  the 
bones,  and  put  the  meat  in  a  tin  pan  or  large  pudding=dish;  season 
the  gravy  with  a  little  more  salt,  if  needed,  and  a  little  white  pex)per, 
then  thicken  with  a  little  corn^starch;  add  a  lump  of  butter  if  the 
chicken  is  lean,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  chicken.  Make  a  rich 
baking-powder  biscuit  dough,  spread  it  with  the  hands  until  it  is 
large  enough  to  cover  the  pie,  place  it  on  the  meat,  and  cut  a  large 
cross  in  the  middle  of  the  crust;  bake  until  the  crust  is  a  rich,  golden 
brown  (|  to  1  hour),  but  do  not  have  the  oven  hot  enough  to 
scorch  it. 

Dangerous  Gases  in  Meat  Pies. — If  the  pie  is  cut  and  eaten  hot, 
there  will  be  no  danger  of  its  being  poisonous — if  set  away  to  cool, 
be  sure  that  there  is  an  opening  in  the  center  of  the  crust  down  to 
the  meat,  for  the  escape  of  the  steam  and  gases  while  cooling.  The 
rising  of  the  crust  while  baking,  sometimes  closes  the  opening  in  it, 
and  the  slow  cooling,  and  confined  gases,  cause  it  to  be  unwholesome. 
This  should  be  especially  guarded  against  with  all  meat  pies.  Meat 
pies  are  those  made  entirely  of  meat  and  crust,  while  mince  pies  are 
made  of  minced  meat,  apples,  fruit  and  spices. 

MEAT  PIE — Take  cold  turkey,  chicken,  or  any  cold  meat  chop- 
ped fine;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  gravy;  lay  pie^crust  around 
the  edge  of  a  platter,  and  cover  the  same ;  bake  a  nice  brown  in  the 
oven.     Time,  ^  to  |  hour. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN — Boil  2  or  3  chickens  and  use  what  is 
wanted  for  dinner — then  take  what  is  left  and  boil  until  it  will  drop 
from  the  bones  easily.  Remove  bones,  and  let  the  liquor  boil  down 
if  there  is  too  much;  then  add  the  meat,  and  season  with  pepper  and 
a  little  cinnamon.  Put  in  a  square  tin  to  press.  It  is  easily  made, 
and  is  very  nice  for  Sunday  lunch. 

CHICKEN  AND  RICE — Take  fricasseed  chicken  and  remove 
the  bones  from  the  largest  pieces,  leaving  the  others  in.  Cover  the 
bottom  of  a  small  pudding^dish  with  cold  boiled  rice,  then  put  in  a 
layer  of  the  chicken,  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper;  then  more  rice, 


154  POULTRY 

and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Have  the  last  layer  rice.  Put  in 
the  gravy  that  is  left,  and  cover  the  whole  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
well  beaten.  Set  in  the  oven  and  bake  until  it  is  light  brown. 
Time,  |  to  1  hour. 

CHICKEN  SHORTCAKE.— Cut  the  meat  from  the  largest  pieces 
of  cold  stewed  chicken  and  remove  the  bones  (the  wishbone  and 
other  small  pieces  may  be  left  whole);  heat,  adding  more  gravy,  if 
necessary,  and  when  hot  pour  it  on  a  shortcake,  cut  in  pieces  made  as 
follows:  Shortcake. — Mix  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  with  2  cups 
of  flour.  Rub  into  it  a  small  -|  cup  of  butter,  and  then  add  1  cup  of 
sweet  milk.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  a  thin  sheet. 

CHICKEN  SUPREME.— First  skin,  then  carefully  cut  the  breast 
meat  from  2  full  grown  chickens;  divide  each  side  of  the  breast  meat 
into  2  long  fillets — this  will  give  8  pieces,  and  is  sufficient  for  a  party 
of  that  number;  flatten  them  by  rolling  with  the  rolling-pin  until 
they  are  about  an  inch  thick,  then  broil  over  a  clear  coal  fire  until 
they  are  thoroughly  done  and  well  browned;  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
white  pepper,  xDlace  on  a  hot  platter,  and  spread  with  butter.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley,  and  serve  with  currant  jelly,  or  any  meat  sauce 
preferred.  These  fillets  can  be  stewed  tender  in  a  little  water,  and 
served  with  Bechamel  sauce.  The  remainder  of  the  fowls  can  be 
used  for  a  stew,  chicken  pie,  or  chicken  fricassee. 

CHICKEN  TARTS. — Mince  cold  chicken  very  fine,  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  1  cup  of  milk  with  -|  an  onion 
and  a  blade  of  mace  in  it;  when  it  is  scalding  hot,  take  out  the  onion 
and  mace,  and  stir  in  a  thickening  made  of  1  teaspoon  of  flour  wet 
with  cold  milk.  When  it  has  boiled  a  few  minutes,  mix  in  2  cups  of 
chopped  chicken.  Have  ready  some  rather  large  tarts  made  of  puff 
paste,  and  put  a  spoonful  of  the  mince  in  each. 

CHICKEN  AND  TOMATOES.— Prepare  chicken  as  for  a  fricas- 
see, with  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork  and  a  small  onion,  sliced;  cover 
them  with  water  and  let  them  simmer  slowly;  when  nearly  cooked 
add  4  medium^sized  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  and  a  little  salt  and 
pepper,  and  cook  |  hour  longer.  Arrange  the  chicken  on  a  platter 
with  some  toasted  crackers,  and  pour  the  broth  over  the  whole  and 
serve. 

FRIED  FOWL — -Cold  roast  or  boiled  fowl  can  be  dipped  in  bat- 
ter and  fried.  Make  the  batter  of  4  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour,  1 
egg,  ^  cup  of  water,  and  2  tablespoons  of  salad  oil.  Add  the  water  to 
the  flour  gradually,  stirring  it  smooth;  then  beat  in  the  yolk  of  the 


POULTKY  155 

egg,  with  I  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  just  before  you  want  your  batter, 
stir  in  the  beaten  white;  some  flour  may  require  a  little  more  water. 
Dip  each  piece  of  chicken  in  the  batter,  and  fry  a  light  brown, 

TO  MAKE  OLD  FOWLS  TENDER.— Take  an  old  fowl  and 
stew  it  from  2  to  4  hours  according  to  our  directions  for  stewing; 
then  roast  it  in  the  oven,  basting  frequently.  It  will  make  an  old 
fowl  5  or  6  years  old,  tender  and  equal  to  a  chicken.     Try  it. 

FOWLS  RECHAUFFE  {Eeheated).— Cut  up  a  cold  fowl,  taking 
off  the  legs  and  wings,  and  dividing  the  fowl  in  pieces.  Season  bread 
crumbs  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  minced  parsley;  mix  all  together 
and  lay  over  the  pieces  of  fowl  in  a  dripping-pan,  and  brown  them  in 
the  oven.  While  that  is  taking  place,  make  a  gravy  of  butter  and 
flour  in  |  pint  of  water  or  broth;  add  a  tablespoon  of  catsup  and  let 
it  come  to  the  boiling  point;  place  the  warmed  fowl  in  a  dish  to 
serve,  pour  over  it  the  hot  gravy,  and  send  to  the  table  immediately. 
Good  for  breakfast.     Time,  about  ^  hour. 

MINCED  FOWL.— Cut  the  meat  from  the  bones,  and  put  them 
on  to  boil  with  the  bits  of  skin  which  are  left,  and  an  onion,  in 
enough  water  to  cover  them.  When  they  have  boiled  until  you  have 
a  cup  of  strong  stock,  strain  and  pour  in  a  cup  of  hot  milk,  with  pep- 
per and  salt;  then  stir  in  2  cups  of  minced  fowl,  and  serve  with  chop- 
ped parsley  sprinkled  over  it. 

STEAMED  FOWL. — Place  a  fowl  in  a  close  steamer  and  cook  1 
hour.  Then  remove  the  steamer,  rub  well  with  salt,  and  stuff  as  for 
baking;  steam  again  until  perfectly  tender,  then  place  it  in  a  baking- 
pan,  rub  with  flour  and  butter  and  place  in  the  oven  until  brown, 
basting  often  with  butter.  Use  some  of  the  liquor  in  the  steamer  for 
gravy  by  adding  it  to  the  butter  in  the  drip- 
ping-pan; thicken  the  gravy  with  flour,  and  add 
the  chopped  giblets  and  a  little  celery  salt. 
Time,  2  to  3  hours. 


GUINEA  FOWLS — They  are  better  when 
a  year  old  and  under,  for  the  old  fowls  are  apt 
to  be  tough  and  dry,  Gruinea  fowls  are  cooked 
in  various  ways  in  the  same  manner  as  the  com-  guinea  fowl. 

mon  domestic  fowls. 

GIBLETS. — These  are  the  liver,  heart  and  gizzard  of  fowls,  with 
the  feet,  and  long,  bony  part  of  the  legs,  and  the  tips  of  the  wings. 
Carefully  cut  away  the  gall  sack  from  the  liver,  peel  the  hard  lining 


156  POULTRY 

from  the  inside  of  the  gizzard,  and  remove  the  veins,  arteries  and  en- 
veloping membranes  from  the  heart;  throw  them  in  cold  water  and 
wash  well.  Boil  them  |  hour  in  slightly  salted  water  sufficient  to 
cover  them.  Take  them  up,  cut  in  small  pieces,  or  chop,  thicken 
and  season  the  gravy  and  return  the  giblets  to  reheat;  then  serve  as 
giblets  stewed.  Or  they  may  be  baked  in  2  crusts  as  "  giblet  pie." 
Giblets  are  also  chopped,  added  to  the  gravies,  and  served  with  the 
fowls  they  were  taken  from.  Scald  and  scrape  the  legs  and  feet  for 
the  soup=kettle — they  are  rich  in  gelatine. 

ROAST  DUCK — Choose  ducks  that  are  plump,  and  have  yellow- 
ish feet;  dress  like  other  poultry,  taking  care  to  get  off  all  the  down. 
Fill  the  body  with  seasoned  dressing,  sew  up,  and  bake  or  roast,  bast- 
ing often.  Time,  20  to  40  minutes.  They  are  often  parboiled  before 
being  baked,  as  that  lessens  the  strong  taste.  They  can  also  be 
stuffed  with  apples  which  absorb  the  strong  taste  and  should  not  be 
eaten  on  that  account.  Celery  should  be  served  with  roast  duck,  and 
any  of  the  piquant  meat  sauces  liked  best. 

Wild  ducks  are  cooked  in  the  same  way  as  the  domestic  variety, 
but  if  the  bones  are  solid  and  show  indications  of  age,  they  are  better 
Ftewed,  or  boiled  and  made  into  side  dishes. 

GEESE — Greese  are  called  green  until  they  are  4  or  5  months 
old.  They  are  dressed,  singed,  trussed,  and  roasted  in  the  same  way 
as  chicken,  carefully  basting  them  while  baking  or  roasting.  Cook 
until  they  are  thoroughly  browned  on  both  sides,  and  the  English 
sauce  for  them  is  made  of  gooseberries,  as  their  name  indicates. 
The  remains  of  baked  green  goose  is  made  into  entrees,  side  dishes, 
hashes,  etc.,  in  the  same  way  that  other  cold  poultry  is  re=warmed. 
Time,  1  to  1^  hours  according  to  size. 

ROAST  GOOSE — It  is  better  to  keep  the  goose  a  few  days  after 
coming  from  the  market,  but  do  not  let  it  come  to  the  slightest  taint. 
Pluck,  singe,  draw,  and  wash  thoroughly;  then  fill  the  cavity  with  a 
dressing  made  with  sage  and  onions,  if  liked,  or  a  plain  bread  and 
butter  filling  may  be  used.  Sew  up,  and  bake  or  roast  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  a  golden  brown  on  both  sides.  Baste  often;  use  butter 
and  flour  when  nearly  done.  The  goose  is  sometimes  parboiled  be- 
fore baking.  The  oil  which  runs  out  will  be  too  strong  for  gravy. 
Serve  apple  sauce  with  the  goose.  Time,  if  small,  1^  hours;  if  large. 
If  hours. 

Goose  Stuffing  {Soyer''s). — Take  4  ajjples,  peeled  and  cored,  4  on- 
ions, a  little  sage  and  thyme;  stew  until  soft,  then  pulp  through  a 
sieve;  add  a  sufficient  amount  of  mashed  potato  to  fill  the  bird.  The 
stuffing  should  be  well  seasoned  with,  salt  and  pepper. 


POULTKY  157 

BOILED  TURKEY.— Draw  and  clean  the  turkey,  then  bone  and 
nearly  fill  the  inside  with  veal  force-meat;  thrust  a  trimmed  boiled 
tongue  down  the  middle  of  the  force=meat,  and  sew  up  the  turkey 
securely;  truss  and  put  it  as  near  as  possible  in  the  original  shape. 
Sew  it  up  in  a  buttered  cloth,  and  boil  very  gently  to  prevent  it  from 
bursting.  Time,  3  to  4  hours,  according  to  the  size.  To  carve,  cut 
across  the  breast,  so  as  to  give  each  person  a  slice  composed  of  equal 
parts  of  tongue,  turkey  and  force-meat.  Turkeys  dressed  in  this 
fashion,  covered  with  Bechamel  sauce,  and  garnished  with  aspic 
jelly,  form  an  elegant  dish  for  ball  suppers. 

BONED  TURKEY,  BOILED— Chop  finely  about  a  pound  of 
veal,  and  |  pound  of  salt  pork;  roll  3  crackers,  add  2  eggs  well 
beaten,  with  a  little  chopped  parsley;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  mix, 
and  fill  the  turkey,  not  crowding  it.  Sew  it  up  and  roll  in  a  cloth; 
boil  from  3  to  4  hours,  then  press  by  putting  it  on  a  platter,  turn 
another  platter  over  it,  and  place  a  weight  on  the  upper  platter,  until 
cold.  Take  a  quart  of  the  broth  in  which  the  turkey  was  boiled,  add 
an  ounce  of  gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  in  a  little  cold  water,  and 
the  juice  of  a  lemon;  place  it  in  a  dish  about  an  inch  deep;  when 
solid,  cut  ^  of  it  in  inch  squares  to  lay  over  the  top  of  the  turkey ; 
beat  the  other  half  with  a  fork  and  place  around  the  turkey.  Sau- 
sage meat  of  fresh  pork,  highly  seasoned,  may  be  used  for  filling,  in- 
stead of  the  veal  and  salt  pork. 

ROAST  TURKEY — After  drawing  the  turkey,  stuff  it  with 
bread,  oysters,  or  any  other  stuffing  desired;  then  sew  it  up,  truss, 
and  rub  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  on  pepper,  salt  and  flour.  Put  it 
in  to  roast,  having  the  oven  hot  at  first;  then  reduce  the  heat  and 
put  2  cups  of  water  in  the  dripping=pan.  Baste  frequently,  and  each 
time  dredge  on  salt  and  flour.  It  should  be  cooked  thoroughly,  roast- 
ing about  20  minutes  to  the  pound,  and  20  minutes  extra.  Cran- 
berry sauce  and  currant  jelly  are  the  best  things  to  serve  with  roast 
turkey. 

Giblet  Gravy  can  be  made  for  turkey  by  boiling  the  giblets  till 
very  tender  (begin  to  boil  them  early);  then  chop  fine,  and  add  salt, 
pepper,  and  sufficient  flour  to  thicken.  When  the  turkey  is  removed 
from  the  pan,  pour  on  the  giblets  sufficient  gravy  from  the  pan,  and 
boil  it.  Make  an  ordinary  gravy  with  the  balance  left  in  the  pan,  as 
some  do  not  like  giblet  gravy. 

TURKEY  CHEESE — This  is  an  excellent  way  to  cook  an  old 
turkey  too  toiT^h  for  roasting.  Have  it  dressed  in  the  usual  way,  and 
let  it  hano-  in  the  lardi^-  for  a  few  days  if  the  weathor  is  co\(\.     Singe. 


1.58  '  GAME 

wash,  and  cut  it  in  small  pieces  as  for  a  fricassee  of  chicken ;  put  it 
in  the  dinner- pot  with  just  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it,  put  on  the 
fire,  and  let  it  come  to  boiling;  then  add  a  tablespoon  of  salt  and  set 
the  kettle  on  the  back  of  the  range,  where  it  will  gently  simmer  until 
the  meat  will  separate  from  the  bones.  At  this  stage,  remove  the 
kettle  from  the  fire,  take  out  the  turkey  into  a  pan  or  deep  earthen 
dish,  remove  all  the  bones,  cut  the  larger  pieces  of  meat  into  smaller 
portions,  season  with  more  salt,  if  needed,  add  pepper  and  herbs,  if 
liked;  then  pour  the  liquor  from  the  kettle  over  it,  and  let  it  get  cold 
before  using  it. 

TURKEY  RAGOUT — Cut  all  the  meat  left  from  roast  turkey,  in 
as  large  pieces  as  it  will  allow.  Break  up  the  bones,  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan,  with  cold  water  to  cover  them,  boil  an  hour,  strain  out  the 
bones;  season  the  liquid  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  chopped  celery  or 
celery  salt;  stir  in  a  thickening  made  of  a  spoonful  of  flour  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk,  ^  a  cup  of  milk,  and  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg.  Stir  over  the  fire  constantly  until  thick  as  cream  put  in  the 
cold  turkey,  simmer  five  minutes  and  serve. 

A  GOOD  BREAKFAST  DISH— A  fine  breakfast  dish  can  be 
made  by  frying  the  livers  of  chickens  or  turkeys  with  a  few  thin 
slices  of  bacon,  Cut  the  liver  and  bacon  very  thin;  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt. 


GAME. 

Game  is  young  if  the  bones  of  the  legs  and  wings  break  easily, 
and  if  the  skin  is  tender. 

All  water  birds  should  be  eaten  as  fresh  as  possible,  as  their  flesh 
is  oily,  and  soon  becomes  rank.  If  there  is  a  large  quantity  of  game 
on  hand  at  one  time,  it  will  be  well  to  cook  the  young  game  first,  and 
the  old,  1  or  2  days  later,  as  old  birds  will  keep  longer  than  young 
ones.  Old  birds  also  need  longer  cooking.  Young  game  cooks 
rather  more  quickly  than  poultry,  and  the  flavor  is  best  retained  by 
cooking  it  plainly.  The  rule  is,  that  while  dark  meated  game  may 
be  rare,  white  meated  game  should  be  well  done. 

Game,  like  all  meat,  should  not  be  washed,  unless  it  is  really 
needed,  and  should  never  be  left  in  the  water,  because,  as  we  have 
elsewhere  explained,  the  water  will  draw  out  the  juices. 

Game  drawn  with  care  only  needs  wiping.  It  is  best  o  dry-pick 
birds,  using  care,  and  taking  off  all  the  feathers  which  can  be  readily 


GAME  159 

removed;  then  plunge  into  boiling  water,  skin,  draw,  and  finally 
wipe  carefully.  Vfild  ducks  and  geese,  however,  are  so  oily  that 
they  should  be  washed  with  warm  water  and  soap,  as  anything  less 
effectual  will  not  cleanse  them  properly.  The  objectionable  flavor  of 
wild  ducks  comes  from  the  oil  in  the  skin ;  if  it  is  very  strong,  they 
can  be  skinned;  then  spread  with  butter,  dredge  thickly  with  flour, 
and  put  in  a  very  quick  oven  to  roast. 

The  directions  for  "  drawing  "  and  "  trussing  "  given  for  poultry, 
will  apply  equally  well  for  wild  iV)wls. 

Overcoming  the  Wild  Flavor. — It  is  sometimes  desired  to  overcome 
the  wild  flavor  in  the  large  birds,  as  it  is  disliked  by  some  people. 
There  are  various  ways  to  do  this:  (1)  Take  a  lemon,  take  off  the 
peel,  and  lay  it  inside;  renew  it  every  10  or  12  hours,  and  continue 
for  1  or  2  days.  From  most  game  this  will  absorb  the  unpleasant 
flavors.  (Probably  the  best  plan.)  (2)  Ducks,  geese,  prairie  chick- 
ens, pheasants,  etc.,  may  lie  for  10  or  12  hours  in  salt  and  water. 
(3)  They  may  be  put  in  soda  and  water  for  2  or  3  hours,  (4)  Par- 
boil in  water  containing  1  or  2  onions. 

Restoring  Tainted  Game. — If  game  becomes  slightly  tainted,  it 
should  at  once  be  picked  clean  and  put  into  milk  for  a  full  day  (24 
hours)  keeping  it  entirely  covered;  this  will  sweeten  it,  and  it  should 
be  cooked  at  once. 

Most  game  is  kept  as  long  as  it  can  be  without  becoming  tainted, 
as  it  is  thought  the  flavor  is  thereby  developed. 

Game  is  less  fat  than  butcher's  meat,  and  is  generally  considered 
very  nourishing;  it  is  easy  of  digestion  and  is  valued  in  the  sick- 
room. This  does  not  apply  to  wild  fowl,  however,  which  have  close, 
firm  and  rather  oily  flesh,  and  are,  therefore,  unsuited  to  weak  stom- 
achs. 

The  garnishes  for  the  larger  game,  like  wild  ducks,  etc.,  are  pars- 
ley, slices  of  orange  or  lemon,  cranberry  or  apple  sauce;  while  for 
small  game,  the  most  common  are  parsley,  toast,  currant  jelly,  and 
slices  of  lemon.  Currant,  grape,  or  any  acid  jelly,  is  suitable  to  serve 
with  game. 

Cranes,  Plovers,  Snipes,  Herons,  Prairie  Chickens,  Quails,  Pigeons,  Wood- 
cocks, and  all  small  game,  are  cooked  in  much  the  same  way  as  spring 
or  broiler  chicken — that  is,  if  the  game  is  young,  which  will  be  known 
by  the  tenderness  of  the  bones,  and  the  freshness  of  the  feet.  They 
can  be  broiled,  fricasseed,  stewed,  etc.,  in  the  same  manner  as  poul- 
try. 

Old  game  should  be  parboiled  before  roasting,  as  that  is  the  bet- 
ter way  of  cooking  old  game  or  poultry. 


160 


GAME 


WILD    DUOK. 


BLACKBIRD  PIE.— Take  1  doz.  blackbirds,  reedbirds  or  otii- 
er  small  game;  skin  and  draw  them,  cutting  off  the  heads  and  feet. 
Put  a  bit  of  bread,  buttered,  peppered,  and  salted,  into  the  body  of 
each  bird;  place  them  in  a  pudding-dish  with  thin  slices  of  cold,  boil- 
ed, fat  salt  pork;  add  a  little  cold  water,  cover  them  with  rich  pie 
crust  I  inch  thick,  and  bake  thoroughly  in  a  moderate  oven.  Time, 
30  to  40  minutes. 

WILD  DUCK. — Pick  the  ducks  carefully,  and  thoroughly  singe 
off  the  down,  then  rub  them  with  a  coarse  cloth.  Split  them  open 
down  the  back,  wash  clean,  and  dry 
them  with  a  cloth;  pound  flat  with 
the  potato^masher,  or  rolling=pin,  and 
broil;  turn  often  on  the  fire,  which 
must  be  clear  and  bright.  Have  a 
little  wisp,  made  of  a  bit  of  linen,  tied 
on  a  clean  stick,  and  rub  them  with 
melted  butter  every  time  you  turn 
them.  Serve  hot.  Ccmvas'-back  ducks 
should  be  served  on  hot  plates,  and  eaten  as  soon  as  possible  after  be- 
ing taken  from  the  fire.     Serve  with  celery  mayonnaise. 

PARTRIDGES.— Sowed.— Bone  the  birds,  and  lard  with  thin 
slices  of  salt  pork;  stuff  with  oysters,  roll  up  and  tie;  place  in  a  drip- 
ping-pan with  a  little  hot  water  and  butter;  bake  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven  until  well  browiied,  basting  often.  Serve  with  mushroom  sauce 
and  mashed  potatoes  and  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon  and  parsley. 
Time,  about  ^  hour. 

Roast  Partridges,— Pick,  draw,  and  wipe  clean;  then  fill  with  tur- 
key dressing;  truss  them  in  shaj)e 
and  put  in  the  dripping-pan  with 
a  little  water;  lay  on  the  birds 
thin  slices  of  fat  salt  pork.  Roast 
about  an  hour,  basting  often ;  when 
done  thicken  the  water  in  the  pan, 
add  more  seasoning  if  needed, 
place  the  partridges  on  a  hot  plat- 
ter, and  pour  the  gravy  around 
them,  or  send  it  to  the  table  in  the 
gravy  boat,  with  a  garnish  of  pars- 
ley around  the  birds  on  the  platter. 

PIGEONS — _Rorts/.— These  to  be  good  should  be  cooked  soon  af- 
ter  being  killed,   and  should  be  dressed  and  drawn   immediately. 


PABTBIDGE. 


GAME  161 

Wash  them  thoroughly  and  wipe  them  dry;  spread  a  lump  of  butter 
on  a  bit  of  bread  and  place  it  in  the  cavity  of  each  bird;  truss  them 
into  shape,  cover  the  bottom  of  the  baking=pan  with  very  thin  slices 
of  salt  pork,  place  the  pigeons  in  the  pan  with  the  backs  down,  and 
put  a  little  water  in  the  pan;  roast  in  a  hot  oven  until  they  are  done, 
and  of  a  nice  brown  color;  they  should  be  basted  often.  Time,  about 
20  to  30  minutes.  Garnish  the  pigeons  with  the  bits  of  pork,  slices 
of  lemon  and  parsley.  Make  a  gravy  in  the  pan,  and  send  it  to  the 
table  in  a  gravy  boat,  with  the  pigeons.  The  juice  of  a  lemon 
dripped  over  the  birds  after  they  are  on  the  platter  adds  to  their  deli- 
cacy. 

Pigeon  Pie.— Line  a  pie  dish  with  thin  slices  of  fat  bacon,  place 
on  this  the  pigeons  cut  in  quarters,  three  pigeons  to  a  pie.  Fill  the 
interstices  with  veal  taken  from  the  loin  or  leg  (of  course  uncooked); 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  proceed  as  to  the  crust  in  the  same 
way  as  for  other  meat  pies.     Time,  about  1^  hours. 

Squabs  (Young  Pigeons). — Dress  in  the  same  manner  as  for  "broil- 
er'' chicken;  split  down  the  back,  pound  flat  with  the  rolling-pin, 
butter  the  broilingsiron,  and  cook  over  clear  coals  until  a  delicate 
brown,  turning  often.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper  when 
done,  and  spread  with  butter,  and  keep  hot  on  the  top  shelf  of  the 
oven  until  ready  to  set  on  the  table.     Time^  4  to  6  minutes. 

PLOVER — Fricassee. — Dress,  wash  clean,  and  put  to  stew  in 
just  water  to  cover  them;  boil  slowly  for  an  hour,  then  add  a  little 
salt,  and  boil  the  water  out  rapidly,  to  brown  the  birds  in  the  kettle; 
watch  that  they,  do  not  burn.  Take  out,  put  bits  of  butter  on  the 
birds  and  keep  hot.  Make  a  brown 
gravy  in  the  kettle,  pour  over  the 
birds,  and  send  to  the  table. 

Fried  Plover. — Skin  the  birds,  re- 
serving only  the  breast  and  legs — the 
remainder  can  go  into  the  soup^kettle 
• — wash  and  wipe  them  dry;  roll  in 
flour  or  bread  crumbs,  put  in  a  hot 
well  buttered  frying-pan  and  fry  until 
nicely  browned  on  both  sides;  place  on 
a  hot  platter,  spread  with  butter,  and 
sprinkle  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  plovek. 

and  keep  the  platter  hot  while  making 

a  gravy.     Add  more  butter  for  the  gravy,  to  that  in  the  pan.  and  ^ 
pint  of  hot  water.     Mix  a  little  cold  water  with  a  tablespoon  of  com= 
starch,  stir  rapidly  until  it  thickens,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
11 


162  GAME 

pour  it  over  the  birds.     Serve   with   wild  grape  jelly,  or  some  nice 
meat  sauce. 

PRAIRIE  CHICKEN.— Cut  out  the  breasts,  cut  each  one  in  two, 
rub  with  butter,  broil,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  on  but- 
tered toast;  garnish  with  currant  jelly.  If  for  breakfast,  serve  on 
fried  mush.  The  balance,  except  the  breast,  is  apt  to  be  tough,  and 
is  best  if  first  parboiled;  then  rub  with  butter  and  broil  as  above. 
They  are  often  split  open  at  the  back,  rubbed  with  butter  and  broiled, 
but  we  think  the  above  the  best  way. 

QVAIL.— Broiled.— Fick,  draw, 
and  split  down  the  back,  then  wash 
and  wipe  dry;  pound  flat  with  the  roll- 
i  ng'pin,  or  a  flatnron  coveredwith  a 
cloth;  broil  slowly,  and  baste  often 
with  butter.  Serve  on  toasted  slices 
of  bread,  richly  buttered.  Time,  4  to 
6  minutes. 

QUAIL. 

QUAIL  PIE. — Take  8  or  10  quails,  cut  each  in  two,  and  lay  in 
salt  water  for  2  hours;  then  put  them  in  a  sauce^pan  with  1  large 
onion,  2  chili  peppers,  some  parsley,  cut  fine,  salt  and  black  pepper; 
cover  with  water,  and  stew  until  tender;  then  add  ^  lb.  butter,  2 
tablespoons  flour,  and  simmer  for  a  few  minutes;  season  with  a  little 
lemon  juice  and  mushroom  catsup.  Place  in  a  pan,  cover  with  puff 
paste,  and  bake.     Time,  about  1  hour. 

SMALL  BIRDS. — A  method  of  treating  small  birds  which  is 
liked  by  many,  is  to  halve  sweet  potatoes  lengthwise,  scoop  out  a 
depression  large  enough  to  receive  half  a  bird,  or  if  very  small,  a 
whole  one.  Put  in  the  dressed  bird,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and 
butter,  put  on  the  other  half  of  the  potato,  tie  it,  and  bake  till  soft. 
Serve  in  the  potatoes;  garnish  with  green  leaf.  Reedbirds,  etc.,  are 
nice  this  way.  Small  birds  can  also  be  fried  in  hot  fat,  or  roasted, 
broiled  or  stewed. 

SNIPE.— Treat  the  same  as  Woodcocks. 

WOODCOCK. — Pick  the  birds,  draw  the  trail,  and  wipe  clean. 
Tie  the  legs,  remove  the  skin  from  the  head,  turn  the  head  under  the 
wing  and  tie,  also  tying  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  on  the  breast.  Fry  in 
hot  lard  2  or  3  minutes.  Season,  and  serve  on  toast,  with  currant 
jelly.  If  preferred,  it  can  be  prepared  the  same  way  and  roasted  in 
the  oven.     Time,  about  ^  hour. 


GAME 


163 


SaWis  of  Woodcock. — This  is  made  of  cold  roast  woodcock.  Cut 
the  birds  into  small  neat  pieces  to  serve,  and  keep  the  remainder — all 
the  bones  and  trimmings — for  the  soup=^kettle.  Simmer  until  the 
meat  comes  off  the  bones,  with  herbs,  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
also  any  gravy  left  from  the  day  before.  Strain  through  a  colander, 
and  return  to  the  kettle.  Thicken  with  a  little  corn=starch  and  put 
in  the  pieces  of  woodcock  to  get  hot  in  the  soup.  There  should  be 
about  enough  of  the  soup  for  a  plenty  of  good  gravy.  Croutons,  or 
strips  of  toasted  bread  can  be  laid  around  the  edge  of  the  platter, 
with  sprigs  of  parsley  or  chives. 

GROUSE. — Cook  same  as  "Prairie  ""'" 

Chicken."  Or  the  breast  and  legs  can 
be  larded;  then  rub  with  butter,  sprinkle 
on  pepper  and  salt,  dredge  with  flour, 
and  roast  in  the  oven.  A  bread  sauce 
is  best  served  with  it. 


delicious,  cooked  in 
and  they  make  a  fine 
the  skin  tough,  they 


RABBITS.— Jack=rabbit  is  the  term 
usually  applied  to  the  wild  rabbit  of  the 
United  States.  They  are  plentiful  in 
some  parts  of  the  country,  and  in  the 
fall,  when  the  boys  bring  them  in  from 
gunning  excursions,  they  are  fat  and  most 
various  ways,  either  roasted,  fried  or  boiled, 
soup  or  pot-pie.  If  the  bones  are  strong  and 
are  old,  and  are  better  boiled  whole  and  served  with  white  or  cream 
sauce.  If  young,  the  skin  is  tender  and  the  ears  tear  easily,  in  which 
case  they  are  nice  cut  in  pieces,  pounded  flat  and  broiled  over  a  clear 
fire  in  the  same  way  as  chickens  are  broiled.  They  can  be  roasted 
whole,  if  young,  after  being  filled  with  a  bread  and  butter  dressing, 
with  a  large  slice  of  fat  salt  pork  spread  over  the  rabbit,  and  it  should 
be  frequently  basted.  If  large,  it  should 
be  in  the  hot  oven  from  1|  to  2  hours,  and 
well  browned,  and  served  with  a  brown 
gravy  made  in  the  dripping=pan  after  the 
meat  is  put  on  the  platter. 

OPOSSUM — Scald  like  a  hog,  clean, 
and  expose  to  a  frosty  air  about  2  days. 
Then  parboil,  and  bake  like  pigs'  meat,  in 
a  moderate  oven,  basting  often.  Peel  and 
split  sweet  potatoes  and  place  them  in  the 
pan  to  bake  with  the  meat. 


164  GAME 

SQUIRRELS The  old  ones  may  be  known  by  their  greater  size, 

and  by  the  greater  strength  of  the  bones.  After  dressing  and  clean- 
ing, they  are  cut  in  quarters;  those  that  are  old  are  better  stewed. 
Put  them  over  the  fire  in  a  kettle,  with  water  enough  to  cover  them; 
stew  gently  until  the  meat  starts  from  the  bones,  then  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  herbs,  if  liked;  add  a  little  corn- starch  for  thicken- 
ing, with  a  lump  of  butter.  The  young  squirrels  can  be  cut  in  quar- 
ters, and  either  broiled  or  fried,  as  you  would  chickens. 

Squirrel  Pie. — Clean,  and  soak  |  hour  in  salt  water;  take  out  and 
stew  with  a  little  salt  pork  until  half  done.  Line  the  sides  of  the 
dish  with  pastry,  lay  in  the  squirrel,  put  in  the  gravy,  put  on  an 
upper  crust,  cut  a  cross  in  it  to  let  out  the  steam  and  gases,  and 
bake.     Time,  about  ^  hour. 

BUFFALO  AND  BEAR — Bear  and 
bufPalo  meat  is  either  baked,  boiled,  fried 
or  broiled,  in  the  same  ways  as  beef. 

RACCOONS  AND  WOODCHUCKS — 
Kaccoons  and  woodchucks,  are  stewed  or 
baked,  and  served  after  the  manner  of 
pigs'  meat,  and  are  considered  a  delicacy 
by  hunters.  Old  animals  can  be  parboiled 
before  cooking — with  young  ones  it  is  not  necessary. 

VENISON — Venison  is  easily  digested.  As  the  hairs  often 
cling  to  the  meat,  it  should  be  cleaned  carefully  before  cooking.  The 
best  cuts  for  steaks  or  roasting  come  from  the  loin  or  saddle.  The 
rules  given  for  cooking  beef  or  mutton  apply  equally  to  venison. 
Stew  the  tougher  parts.  Currant  jelly  is  considered  the  best  thing 
to  serve  with  venison,  or  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 

Venison  Steaks. — Cut  venison  steaks  in  suitable  pieces  for  serving; 
heat  ^  of  a  lb.  of  butter  in  your  frying-pan;  season  the  steaks  with 
salt  and  pepper,  then  dip  them  in  wheat  flour  or  rolled  cracker 
crumbs,  and  fry  them  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides.  When  done,  set 
them  in  the  oven  with  a  tin  over,  to  keep  them  warm,  while  you  pre- 
pare gravy,  as  follows:  Dredge  a  large  tablespoon  of  flour  into  the 
butter  in  the  pan,  and  stir  until  it  is  brown,  without  burning;  put  in 
a  teacup  of  boiling  water,  with  a  teaspoon  of  currant  jelly  dissolved 
into  it.  Stir  briskly  for  a  few  minutes,  then  strain  the  gravy  over 
the  meat  and  serve  at  once. 


CUTTING  UP  AND  CURING 
MEATS. 


"ir  T  is  very  desirable  for  every  housekeeper  to  know  the  location 
f(pj  and  names  of  the  different  parts  of  meat,  and  many  families 
i  occasionally  cut  up  and  cure  animals  for  their  own  use,  and  so 
in  this  chapter  we  will  give  such  information  on  these  subjects 
as  will  meet  the  requirements  of  our  readers.  Before  corning  meat 
hang  it  1  or  2  days  after  it  is  killed. 

BEEF. 

1.  Rump. — Used  for  corned  beef, 
stews  and  steaks. 

2.  Aitchbone. — Used  for  stews  and 
pot-roasts. 

3.  Round  or  Buttock. — Used  for 
stews,  boiling,  pot=roasts,  or  steaks. 
The  lower  part  is  good  to  work  up  in 
Hamburg  steaks  and  curry  of  beef. 

4.  Hock. — Best  for  soup  or  stews. 

5.  Shin  or  Leg. — Used  for  soup, 
stewing  or  hash. 

6.  Shin. — Used  for  soup  or  cheap 
stews. 

7.  CZod.— Used  for  soup,  stock, 
stews,  sausages,  etc. 

8.  Neck  or  Sticking  Piece. — Used  same  as  clod. 

9.  Shoulder   Clod. — Used   for   stews,   pot=roasts,   hashes 


Brisket. — Used   for   soups,   stews,  corned  and  spiced 


-^ 

s 

<^ 

3 

■  \ 

,--' 

'2/ 

13 

rW 

etc. 

10, 
beef. 

11.  Thin  Flank. — Used  for  stews  or  for  corned  beef  or 
dried  beef. 

12.  Thick  Flank. — Suitable  for  corned  beef,  boiling, 
stews,  or  pressed  beef. 

13.  Sirloin. — Used  for  sirloin  or  porter  house  steaks  or 
choice  roasts.  The  tip  is  an  extra  fine  roast,  and  should  have 
3  but  is  sometimes  cut  up  with  2  ribs. 

14.  Fore  Rib. — The  5  ribs  nearest  the  sirloin  are  the  best; 
it  makes  fine  roasting  pieces,  or  steaks;  the  bones  are  often 
taken  out  and  the  meat  rolled,  when  the  bones  can  be  used  for 
soup. 

15.  Middle  Ribs. 

16.  Chuck  Ribs.- 
second  quality. 

17.  Cheek. — Used  for  soups  or  stews. 

Other  parts  used  are:  (18)  The  Brains  which, 
when  well  soaked,  can  be  stewed,  fried,  scalloped  or  made  into  cro- 
quettes.    (19)  Ox'tail,  used  for  soups  and  stews.      (20)    Cow-heels, 


—Usually  roasted. 

-Used  for  stews  and  steaks  and  roasts  of 


/    '* 

Q 

/     '^ 

\ 

ii 

166      .  CUTTING  UP  AND  CURING  MEATS 

which  make  as  good  jelly  as  calves'  feet,  and  what  remains  of  them 
is  good  eating;  they  also  make  good  soup.  (21)  The  Heart,  which 
can  be  stuffed,  braised  or  roasted,  but  although  economical  it  is 
rather  indigestible.  (22)  The  Liver. — It  can  be  boiled  or  fried  and 
is  very  nutritious  and  cheap.  The  food  known  as  "faggots  "  is  made 
of  the  liver  and  lights  of  sheep  and  bullocks  mixed  with  some  fat. 
(23)  The  Kidneys,  used  for  stewing,  pies  or  puddings.  They  are 
cheaper  than  the  kidneys  of  young  animals,  but  difficult  of  diges- 
tion. They  need  light  cooking,  as  they  are  apt  to  dry  up  when 
exposed  to  a  high  temperature.  (24)  The  Tongue  is  boiled  and 
braised,  either  fresh  or  salted.  It  can  be  bought  either  way.  (25) 
Tripe. — This  is  easily  digested,  but  is  not  very  nutritious.  (26) 
Sweetbreads  — This  in  full  grown  animals  consists  of  the  pancreas, 
and  is  not  equal  to  the  thymus  gland  of  the  calf.  (27)  Suet. — That 
which  surrounds  the  kidneys  is  the  firmest  and  best.  (28)  The 
Spleen  or  Milt  of  bullock,  sheep  and  x)ig  is  sold  for  food.  It  is  gen- 
erally stuffed  and  roasted,  or  stewed  or  boiled  for  stock.  (29)  The 
Fillet  lies  under  the  rump  and  loin  and  weighs  6  or  8  lbs. 

Tlie  Lights  are  the  lungs.  The  Pluck  is  the  lights,  liver  and 
heart. 

It  is  well  to  remember  that  any  part  of  an  animal  which  is  much 
exercised  is  tougher  than  parts  which  are  exercised  little  or  none. 

VEAL. 

1.  Head. — Used    for    soup    or    jelly.        Calves^ 
brains  are  served  as  an  entree. 

2.  Neck. — Used  for  stews  or  soup. 

3.  Knuckle. — Best  stewed  or  boiled;    occasion- 
ally roasted. 

4.  Feet. — Used  for  jelly  making;    occasionally 
stewed  or  fried. 

5.  Loin. — Prime  roasting  joint  or  for  cutlets. 

6.  Chump  end  of  Loin. — Used  for  roasting  or 
cutlets. 

7.  Fillet. — The  most  economical  roasting  j  oint, 
and  furnishes  the  best  cutlets. 

8.  Knuckle. — This   is    cheap  and  is   best  used 
for  stewing,  boiling  or  for  stock. 

9.  Flank. — Used  for  stews. 

10.  Breast. — Best  stewed;  sometimes  roasted.  This  part  furnishes  veal  ten- 
dons served  as  an  entree. 

11  and  12.  Shoulder  or  Bladebone. — Used  sometimes  for  roasting  and  some- 
times for  cutlets. 

13.  Rib. — Used  for  small  roasting  joint  or  for  chops. 

14.  Siveetbreads. — These  are  found  above  Fig.  14  and  consist  of  the  tJiymus 
gland  found  on  both  sides  of  the  windpipe.  The  stomach  sweetbreads  are  located 
further  along  near  the  stomach. 

Other  parts  used  are :  (15)  T/ie  If (^c/r/,  which  is  more  digestible 
than  bullock's  heart  and  is  liked  by  many.  .  (16)  Li rer.— Thin  is 
very  lean,  and  is  usually  cooked  with  some  of  the  inside  fat  or  with 


CUTTING  UP  AND  CUEING  MEATS 


167 


bacon.  (17)  Kidney. — This  is  more  delicate  than  beef  kidney,  and 
is  preferred  to  it.  (18)  Suet. — Veal  suet  is  more  delicate  than  beef 
suet,  and  may  advantageously  be  substituted  for  that  in  puddings 
and  for  all  purposes. 

*PORK. 

1.  Feet. — Used  for  pickle  or  jelly; 
occasionally  boiled,  or  boned  and  stufif- 
ed. 

2.  Ham  or  Leg. — Used  for  roasting, 
boiling  or  frying;  the  most  economical 
piece  to  buy. 

3.  Bacon. — Generally  cured. 

4.  Hock. — Best  stewed  or  boiled. 

5.  Shoulde}\ — Smoke,  or  cut  steaks 
from  this. 

6.  Lower  Neck. — Used  foe  sausages 
or  lard. 

7.  Head. — Can  be  boiled  or  made  into  brawn;  the  cheek 
can  be  made  into  smoked  jowls,  and  the  snout  boiled. 

8.  Shoulder  Top. — Used  for  spare=ribs,  steak  or   sausage. 

9.  Fore  Loin. —  Usually  roasted. 
10.  Loin. — The    best  roasting   joint;  chops  are   also   cut 

from  it. 

Other  parts  are:  (11)  Pig''s  Fry. — This  con- 
sists of  the  liver,  sweetbreads  and  some  of  the 
inside  fat.  (12)  The  Harslet,  consisting  of  the 
liver,  lights  and  heart.  (13)  The  Chine;  this  is 
the  2  loins  unseparated  from  the  backbone.  (14) 
Lard;  this  has  a  lower  melting  point  than  beef  or 
mutton  fat,  and  the  lower  the  heat  at  which  it  is 
melted  the  smoother  it  is. 

TO  CUT  UP  PORK.— Have  the  hog  laid  on 
his  back  on  a  clean  bench;  cut  off  the  head  close 
to  the  base.  If  large  there  will  come  off  a  considerable  collar  be- 
tween the  head  and  shoulders,  which,  pickled  or  dried,  is  useful  for 
cooking  with  vegetables.  Separate  the  jowl  from  the  face  at  the  nat- 
ural joint;  open  the  skull  lengthwise  and  take  out  the  brains — es- 
teemed a  luxury.  Then,  with  a  sharp  knife,  remove  the  backbone 
the  whole  length;  then  the  long  strip  of  fat  underlying  it,  leaving 
about  1  inch  of  fat  covering  the  spinal  columu.  Take  out  the  leaf 
lard,  and  the  tenderloin — a  fishy  shax3ed  piece  of  flesh.  Now  cut  out 
the  middle  or  sides,  leaving  the  shoulders  square=shaped  and  the 
hams  pointed  or  rounded  as  desired.  The  spare^ribs  are  usually 
wholly  removed  from  the  sides,  with  but  little  meat  adhering.  It  is 
the  sides  of  young  hogs,  cured  as  hams,  that  bear  the  name  of  break- 
fast bacon.  The  sausage  meat  comes  chiefly  in  strips  from  the  back- 
bone, part  of  which  may  also  be  used  as  steak.     The  lean  trimmings 


168  CUTTING  UP  AND  CURING  MEATS 

from  about  the  joints  are  used  for  sausage.  The  chines  are  smoked 
with  the  jowls  and  used  in  late  winter  and  spring.  The  feet  should 
be  heated  over  the  fire  until  the  hoofs  can  be  easily  removed;  then 
scrape  clean,  and,  after  being  a  few  minutes  in  hot  water,  scrape  and 
wash  carefully,  and  they  will  be  ready  to  cook.  The  fat  from  the 
intestines  is  all  removed;  use  that  which  sticks  to  the  larger  intes- 
tines for  soap  grease. 

Sometimes  the  smaller  intestines  are  used  for  sausage  cases.  Try 
uj)  all  flabby  pieces  for  lard.  The  sweetbreads,  liver,  kidneys  and 
heart  are  used  for  boiling.  When  meat  is  to  be  pickled  it  should  be 
dusted  lightly  with  saltpetre,  sprinkled  with  salt,  and  allowed  to 
drain  24  hours;  then  plunge  it  into  pickle,  and  keep  it  under  weight. 
It  is  good  policy  to  pickle  a  portion  of  the  sides. 

Pork  is  cured  for  the  market  iu  different  ways;  the  fat  sides  are  taken  from 
the  ribs,  cut  in  pieces,  packed  in  barrels  with  layers  of  salt,  and  then  covered  with 
strong  brine,  in  which  it  is  kept  until  retailed  from  the  barrels.  Sometimes  the 
sides  are  well  cured  in  the  brine,  then  hung,  dried,  and  afterwards  packed  in  boxes 
with  dry  salt.  At  the  South  this  is  called  bacon,  and  smoked  bacon  if  it  has  been 
hung  in  a  smoke=house.  Pig  meat  is  treated  in  the  latter  way,  and  makes  a  deli- 
cate meat  called  breakfast  bacon.  The  hams,  shoulders  and  cheeks  of  pork  are 
pickled  in  brine  for  a  certain  length  of  time,  then  are  taken  from  the  pickle,  and 
either  packed  dry  in  salt,  or  smoked  and  packed  in  a  manner  to  best  preserve 
them.  One  of  the  best  ways  of  keeping  hams  in  the  country,  is  to  dry  the  hams 
well  in  a  smoke-house,  then  rub  them  well  with  fine  salt  and  sugar,  roll  up  well  in 
newspapers,  and  pack  in  barrels,  filling  as  you  go  with  clean  wood  ashes. 

MUTTON    AND    LAMB. 

1.  Loin,  chump  end. — Used  for  roasting  or  chops; 
chump  chops  are  cut  nearest  the  tail  where  there  is 
the  EQOst  bone. 

2.  Loin. — The  best  roasting  joint. 

3.  Back. — Used  for  roasting,  boiling,  or  for  mut- 
ton cutlets. 

4.  Shoulder. — Used  for  roasting  or  for  stuffing; 
is  fatter  and  not  so  economical  as  the  leg,  but  is  pre- 
ferred by  many. 

5.  Neck. — Used  for  stews. 

6.  Head. — This  makes  excellent  broth  but  is  not 
much  used  by  the  well=to!=do  classes. 

7.  Shank. — Suitable  for  stews  or  soups. 

8.  FeeL—Vsed  for  jelly. 

9.  Hock. — Suitable  for  stews  or  soup. 

10.  Leg. — Used  for  roasts  or  chops;  mutton  steaks  are  cut  from  the  leg;  usu- 
ally considered  the  most  economical  piece  to  buy. 

11.  Breast. — Suitable  for  stewing  or  boiling;  often  economical  but  too  fat  for 
some. 

Other  iDarts  are:  (12)   The  Chine,  which  consists  of  the  2  loins 

unseparated  from  the  backbone.     (13)   The  Saddle,  which  consists  of 

2  loins  and  2  legs  undivided.    (14)  The  Heart,  which  is  best  roasted. 

(15)  The  Liver,  which  can  be  fried  or  made  into  soup.      (16)   The 

Kidney,  which  can  be  broiled  or  stewed  (often  sold  with  the  Ibin). 

(17)  MuUon  Suet. — This  is  not  so  good  as  beef  suet  for  puddings, 

etc. 


CUTTING  UP  AND  CUEING  MEATS 


169 


LAMB. — When  very  large  it  is  cut  into  the  same  joints  as  mut- 
ton; when  small  it  is  simply  cut  into  quarters.  Lamb's  Sweetbreads 
are  considered  a  delicacy.  Lambs  Fry  consists  of  the  liver,  the 
sweetbreads,  and  some  of  the  inside  fat  or  leaf  of  the  heart. 
Lambs  Kidney,  Head  and  Feet  are  also  eaten.  Lamb's  kidneys 
cooked  a  little  while  are  tender,  but  long  cooking  toughens  them. 
Many  people  prefer  the  fore  quarters,  but  the  leg  is  the  most  eco- 
nomical part  to  buy. 

VENISON. 

1.  Loin  or  Haunch. — Used  for  steaks,  roasts  and 
,e-wB;  also  for  making  smoked  venison;  the  ribs  can 
3  used  for  soup. 

2.  Foi^e  Loin. — Good  for  roasts  or  steaks. 

3.  Shoulder. — Usually  roasted,  or  boned,  stuffed, 
and  then  roasted  or  baked. 

4.  Neck  or  Scrag. — Used  for  soup  or  stews. 

5.  Breast. — Used  for  stews  or  baking. 
The  best  and  sweetest    venison    comes    from    a 

female  deer  about  4  years  old;  doe  venison  (in  season 
from  October  to  December)  is  not  equal  to  buck 
venison — (in  season  from  June  to  October  1st).  The 
haunch  is  the  prime  joint,  though  the  shoulders  are 
much  esteemed.  Venison  requires  more  care  in  the 
killing,  preserving  and  dressing  than  any  other  meat. 
As  soon  as  it  is  cut  up  it  should  be  taken  into  a  cool, 
dry  larder,  dried  with  a  cloth,  and  hung  in  an  airy 

place.  If  it  is  to  be  kept  some  time,  dust  dry  ginger  and  pepper  over  it  to  keep 
off  flies;  keep  it  as  long  as  it  is  possible  to  preserve  it  untainted.  If  it  should  in- 
advertently become  musty,  first  wash  it  with  lukewarm  vinegar  and  water,  and 
afterwards  with  lukewarm  milk  and  water,  and  then  dry  it  perfectly  with  a  cloth, 
and  flour  it. 

PICKLE  FOR  MEAT.— Make  8  gallons  of  brine  strong  enough 
to  float  an  egg,  add  2  lbs.  of  brown  sugar,  and  1  quart  of  molasses, 
and  4  oz.  saltpetre;  boil  and  skim  clean,  and  pour  cold  on  the  meat. 
Meat  intended  for  smoking  should  remain  in  pickle  about  4  weeks. 
This  pickle  can  be  boiled  over,  and  with  a  fresh  cup  of  sugar  and 
salt,  used  all  summer.  Some  persons  use  as  much  soda  as  saltpetre; 
it  will  correct  acidity,  but  we  think  impairs  the  meat. 

Note. — In  salting  or  pickling  beef  or  pork  for  family  consumption,  it  not  be- 
ing generally  required  to  be  kept  for  a  great  length  of  time,  less  salt  and  more  of 
other  matters  better  adapted  to  retain  the  mellowness  in  meat  may  be  used  than 
could  be  adopted  by  those  who  cure  large  quantities  for  shipment.  Sugar  is  well 
known  to  possess  the  preserving  principle  to  a  large  degree  without  the  pungency 
and  stringency  of  salt.  It  acts  without  contracting  the  fibers  of  the  meat,  and 
therefore  does  not  impair  its  mellowness,  but  when  used  in  sufiiciently  large  quan- 
tities for  preserving  effect  it  imparts  a  flavor  not  agreeable  to  many  people.  It 
may  be  used  with  salt,  however,  to  great  advantage  in  about  the  proportion  of  1 
part  by  weight  of  sugar  to  4:  parts  of  the  mixture,  and  now  that  sugar  is  so  much 
cheaper  than  formerly  it  may  be  more  commonly  used. 

MEAT  PICKLE — Take  of  moist  sugar,  2  lbs.,  common  salt,  4 
lbs.,  saltpetre,  ^  lb.,  fresh  ground  allspice,  2  oz.;  water  6  to  8  quarts. 


170  CUTTING  UP  AND  CUKING  MEATS 

Dissolve.     Used  to  pickle  meat,  to  which  it  imparts  a  fine  red  color, 
and  a  superior  flavor. 

TO  CURE  MEAT.— To  1  gallon  of  water  add  1^  lbs.  salt,  ^  lb.  of 
sugar,  I  oz.  saltpetre,  |  oz.  potash.  Make  any  quantity  desired,  pre- 
serving these  proportions.  Boil  these  together  until  all  the  dirt  from 
the  sugar  rises  to  the  top  and  is  skimmed  off;  then  throw  it  into  a 
tub  to  cool,  and  when  cold  pour  it  over  the  beef  and  pork  to  remain 
the  usual  time,  say  4  or  5  weeks.  The  meat  must  be  well  covered 
with  pickle  and  should  not  be  put  down  for  at  least  2  days  after  kill- 
ing, during  which  time  it  should  be  slightly  sprinkled  with  salt- 
petre, which  removes  all  surface  blood,  etc.,  leaving  the  meat  fresh 
and  clean.  If  this  recipe  is  tried  it  will  never  be  abandoned — 
nothing  surpasses  it. 

CURING  BEEF  AND  HAM— For  beef  use  6  lbs.  salt,  1  oz.  salt- 
petre, 4  oz.  New  Orleans  sugar,  ^  gallon  sorghum  molasses,  3^  gal. 
water;  boil  and  skim  the  mixture;  when  cold,  pour  it  over  the  meat, 
and  if  the  latter  is  bloody  pour  ofp  the  brine,  scald  it,  and  when  cold 
pour  over  the  meat  again.  If  the  meat  is  a  ham  or  shoulder  to  be 
smoked,  it  should  lie  in  the  brine  20  to  30  days,  and  then  be  hung  up 
to  smoke.  Beef  to  be  dried  should  be  treated  in  the  same  way,  but 
corned  beef  lies  in  the  brine  until  it  is  used  up. 

HAMS,  TO  CURE — To  each  green  ham  of  18  lbs.  use  1  dessert- 
spoon of  saltpeter,  ^  lb.  of  brown  sugar  applied  to  the  fleshy  side  of 
the  ham  and  about  the  hock;  cover  the  fleshy  -side  with  fine  salt  ^ 
inch  thick,  and  pack  away  in  tubs;  let  remain  from  3  to  6  weeks,  ac- 
cording to  size.  Before  smoking,  rub  off  any  salt  that  may  remain 
on  the  ham,  and  cover  well  with  ground  pepper,  particularly  about 
the  bone  and  hock,  hang  up  and  drain  for  2  days;  smoke  with  green 
wood  for  8  weeks,  or  until  the  rind  assumes  a  light  chestnut  color. 
The  iDepper  is  an  effectual  preventive  of  the  fly.     (An  extra  recipe.) 

A  Southern  Rule  for  Curing  Meat — For  250  lbs.  of  beef  or  hams  and 
shoulders,  use  16  lbs.  salt,  8  gal.  water,  4  oz.  saltpetre,  2  quarts  mo- 
lasses, 1  tablespoon  soda;  mix  and  dissolve.  For  salting  beef,  first 
cut  it  into  suitable  pieces  and  pack  in  a  clean  barrel  as  closely  as 
can  be  pressed  in  by  the  hand;  put  it  in  even  layers.  When  all  the 
meat  is  packed  place  on  top  4  sticks  crossed,  and  lay  on  them  a  clean 
stone  heavy  enough  to  keep  the  meat  under  the  brine.  Pack  hams 
the  same  way,  and  after  30  days  remove  from  the  brine  and  smoke. 

WESTPHALIAN  HAMS— The  famous  Westphalian  hams  are 
cured  thus:    First  rub  with  dry  salt,  and  then  drain  24  hours.     Take 


CUTTING  UP  AND  CUBING  MEATS  171 

4  quarts  salt,  3  lbs.  brown  sugar,  1  lb.  saltpetre,  4  oz.  salprunella,  4 
oz.  juniper  berries;  bruise,  mix  well,  boil  in  6  quarts  of  water,  cool 
and  skim.  Take  the  hams  from  the  salt,  wipe  dry,  pour  over  the 
pickle,  and  rub  well  into  the  meat.  Then  smoke  a  little  every  day 
for  3  months  until  completely  dry,  when  they  will  keep  sound  and 
improve  in  flavor  for  years.  Hams  shrink  in  smoking  about  10%  in 
weight,  while  pickled  or  salted  pork  gains  about  10%. 

SUGAR  CURING  HAMS  {English  Recipe).— As  soon  as  the 
meat  comes  from  the  butcher's  hand  rub  it  thoroughly  with  salt; 
repeat  this  4  days,  keeping  the  meat  where  it  can  drain.  The  fourth 
day  rub  it  with  saltpetre  and  a  handful  of  salt,  allowing  1  lb.  of  salt- 
petre to  70  lbs.  of  meat.  Now  mix  1  lb.  of  brown  sugar,  and  1  lb.  of 
molasses;  rub  it  over  the  ham  every  day  for  a  fortnight,  and  then 
smoke  with  hickory  chips  or  cobs.  Hams  should  be  hung  highest  in 
meat  houses,  because  there  they  are  less  liable  to  the  attacks  of 
insects. 

TO  KEEP  CURED  HAM —  A  simple  way  is  by  packing  closely 
in  a  stone  jar,  (after  taking  oif  the  rind  and  cutting  in  slices)  and 
then  exclude  the  air  by  pouring  over  enough  melted  lard  to  cover 
them;  they  will  keep  this  way  several  months.  When  some  is  taken 
out  melt  the  lard  and  pour  on  again,  to  protect  the  balance. 

PICKLE  FOR  CORNED  BEEF— (1)  Use  1  gal.  water,  1|  lbs. 
salt,  ^  lb.  brown  sugar,  ^  oz.  saltpetre,  \  oz.  potash;  use  same  propor- 
tions for  any  quantity;  boil  all  together  in  an  iron  kettle,  skim  and 
strain;  put  into  the  pickle  tub,  and  when  cold  put  in  the  meat,  hav- 
ing the  pickle  cover  it,  and  weighting  it  down  with  clean  stones.  (2) 
For  100  lbs.  of  beef  use  8  lbs.  fine  salt,  4  lbs.  brown  sugar,  4  oz.  sal- 
eratus,  2  oz.  saltpetre,  and  mix  well;  put  a  layer  of  this  in  the  bottom 
of  the  barrel  and  between  each  layer  of  meat,  removing  the  large 
bones.  Put  a  weight  on  the  top  layer  to  hold  it  down,  and  the  juices 
of  the  meat  furnish  all  the  brine  necessary.  Meat  thus  pickled  is 
ready  for  drying  in  six  weeks,  and  does  not  toughen  in  the  summer. 

TO  CORN  BEEF  {Pocock  Piclcle) .—Take  4  gallons  fresh  water. 
1^  lbs.  coarse  brown  sugar,  2  oz.  saltpetre,  7  lbs.  common  salt;  put  all 
in  a  boiler,  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  boil  well,  and  then  let  it  get 
cold.  Have  sufiicient  to  cover  the  meat,  lay  a  cloth  over  it,  and 
weight  down  the  meat.  The  same  pickle  may  be  used  again  by 
re=boiling,  and  adding  a  small  quantity  of  each  ingredient  fresh. 

SPICED  CORN  BEEF. — Prepare  a  mixture  of  4  cups  molasses, 
4  cups  of  salt,  4  tablespoons  of  saltpetre,   2  tablespoons  cloves,  2 


172  CUTTING  UP  AND  CURING  MEATS 

tablespoons  ground  pepper;  each  day  for  10  days  rub  this  into  the 
beef,  turning  the  meat,  and  rubbing  well  in.  This  is  for  20  lbs. 
of  meat.    At  the  end  of  the  10  days  it  can  be  used. 

HAMBURGH  BEEF — Take  a  piece  of  meat  from  some  fleshy 
part;  scatter  common  salt  under  and  over  it,  and  let  lie  24  hours  to 
void  the  blood;  then  put  into  a  pickle  made  with  1  gal.  water  that 
has  been  boiled,  1  lb.  common  salt,  1|  lbs.  coarse  sugar,  2  oz.  salt- 
petre, ^  pint  vinegar;  simmer  until  all  are  melted;  place  the  meat  in 
a  deep  narrow  pan  and  pour  over  the  liquor,  covering  it  completely; 
it  will  be  ready  for  smoking  in  3  weeks;  dry  well  with  a  cloth,  and 
rub  pea  meal  all  over  it,  until  it  has  a  good  coat  on  it.  If  well 
smoked  it  will  come  out  a  bright  yellow,  and  will  keep  any  length  of 
time. 

HOME  MADE  DRIED  BEEF— Select  a  nice  round  of  beef- 
better  from  a  young  animal — divide  it  into  2  pieces,  following  the 
natural  line  of  division  very  carefully,  so  as  not  to  make  any  cuts  or 
gashes  for  the  fly  to  burrow  in.  Then  for  50  lbs.  of  meat  make  a 
mixture  of  2  lbs.  fine  salt,  1  oz.  of  powdered  saltpetre,  1^  lbs.  brown 
sugar.  Rub  this  mixture  well  into  the  meat  every  morning  until 
used  up,  and  at  the  end  of  2  weeks  hang  up  in  a  smoke  house  to 
smoke  slightly  or  just  enough  to  be  tasted.  Excess  of  smoke  is  not 
generally  relished.  It  may  be  left  hanging  in  any  dry  place  away 
from  flies.     If  it  molds  a  little  on  the  outside  that  will  not  hurt. 

BEEF,  SCOTCH  METHOD  OF  DRYING.— Take  2  lbs.  salt,  1 
oz.  finely  ground  cloves,  2  oz.  of  ground  pepper,  or  in  these  propor- 
tions for  any  desired  quantity.  After  cutting  the  meat  into  suitable 
pieces,  rub  this  mixture  well  into  it  every  day  for  5  or  6  days;  then 
hang  the  meat  up  to  dry.  This  is  said  to  produce  superior  dried 
beef. 

TONGUES,  TO  CURE— (1)  Take  9  lbs.  salt,  8  oz.  sugar,  and  9 
oz.  powdered  saltpetre.  Rub  the  above  ingredients  well  into  the 
tongues,  and  keep  them  in  this  curing  mixture  for  2  months,  turning 
them  every  day.  Drain  them  from  the  pickle,  cover  them  with 
brown  paper,  and  have  them  smoked  for  about  3  weeks,  The  above 
quantity  of  brine  is  suSicient  for  12  tongues  of  5  lbs.  each.  (2) 
Take  ^  oz.  saltpetre,  ^  oz.  salprunella,  1  lb.  salt,  ^  lb.  very  coarse 
sugar,  4  bay  leaves,  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  and  3  pints  of  water. 
Let  it  boil  for  |  hour,  skim  off  the  scum,  and  pour  the  liquid  into  a 
pickling  dish;  when  it  is  quite  cold  put  the  tongue  in,  and  turn  it 
every  day  for  3  weeks,  if  you  wish  to  cook  it  green,  but  if  not  leave  it 


CUTTING  UP  AND  CURING  MEATS  173 

in  the  pickle  for  a  month.  This  pickle  will  keep  good  for  months  if 
re^boiled  and  skimmed.  Every  tongue  put  in  should  first  be  well 
rubbed  with  salt,  left  to  drain  for  3  days,  and  then  wiped  dry. 

PICKLE  FOR  TONGUES  AND  BEEF.— Use  1  gal.  water,  2 
lbs,  common  salt,  4  oz.  saltpetre,  f  lb,  brown  sugar;  boil  all  well  to- 
gether. A  tongue  should  be  pickled  14  days  before  it  is  considered 
well  cured. 

TO  PICKLE  PIGS'  FEET.— Put  them  in  strong  brine,  and 
leave  for  1  week;  then  take  out  and  boil  in  water  to  remove  the 
brine,  then  pour  vinegar  over  them,  and  soak  in  a  pickle  containing 
bay  leaves,  allspice  and  mace. 

TO  CLEAN  BEEF  TRIPE— Rinse  carefully  in  cold  water 
(after  emptying  the  contents,  none  of  which  should  be  allowed  to 
touch  the  outside).  Then  sprinkle  on  lime,  put  it  in  a  tub,  pour  on 
hot  water  and  leave  2  hours ;  then  try  scraping  it  with  a  knife — if  the 
dark  does  not  come  off  readily,  spread  on  more  lime  and  put  in  the 
tub  another  hour  or  two;  then  scrape,  and  rinse  clean  with  cold 
water.  Put  it  in  salt  water,  enough  to  cover  it,  and  leave  3  days; 
change  the  water  each  day.  Take  it  out,  cut  in  strips,  and  whiten  by 
laying  it  in  buttermilk  for  a  few  hours;  then  rinse  clean,  and  boil  for 
a  few  hours — or  till  it  is  tender  enough  to  mash  with  the  fingers. 
Then  it  is  ready  to  cook  as  desired. 

RENNET,  TO  PREPARE — Rennets  should  not  be  saved  from 
calves  less  than  a  week  old;  those  from  3  to  4  weeks  old  make 
the  best.  Never  use  a  stomach  of  an  animal  the  least  out  of  health. 
Take  the  rennet  out  immediately  after  the  animal  is  killed,  turn 
inside  out  without  washing,  cure  thoroughly  with  dairy  salt,  dry 
perfectly,  and  keep  in  paper  bags  till  wanted  for  use.  For  use, 
soak  in  clean  whey,  saturated  with  salt,  for  24  hours  before  using, 
frequently  squeezing  them  with  the  hand  to  macerate.  After  being 
soaked,  keep  the  liquor  as  cool  as  possible  in  tightly  covered  ves- 
sels until  used. 

TO  PREPARE  BLADDERS  FOR  USE — Soak  them  for  24  hours 
in  a  basin  of  water  in  which  a  little  chloride  of  lime  has  been  dis- 
solved; then  clear  all  extraneous  matter  from  the  bladders,  wash 
them  thoroughly  in  clean  water,  and  hang  them  up  to  dry. 

SAUSAGES. — Use  the  trimmings  and  other  lean  and  fat  por- 
tions of  pork,  selecting  about  twice  as  much  lean  as  fat.  Some 
consider   it   an  improvement  to  add  about  one-sixth  the  weight  of 


174  CUTTING  UP  AND  CURING  MEATS 

beef.  Season  to  taste.  Some  use  salt  and  pepper  alone  (say  1  tea- 
spoon to  2  lbs.  of  meat),  and  others  add  sage,  thyme,  mace,  cloves 
and  other  spices.  If  the  meat  is  put  into  muslin  bags  2|  to  3 
inches  in  diameter,  and,  after  being  filled,  are  dipped  into  melted 
lard  and  hung  up  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  it  will  keep  very  satisfactorily. 

PORK  SAUSAGES.— For  these  the  right  proportions  of  fat 
and  lean  meat  is  about  ^  fat,  and  for  every  10  lbs.  of  the  minced 
sausage  4  oz.  of  salt,  1  oz.  of  pulverized  black  pepper,  and  1  table- 
spoon pulverized  sage  is  nearly  the  right  proportion  of  seasoning. 
Mix  thoroughly,  but  add  no  water.  It  can  be  packed  down  in  stone 
jars,  with  hot  lard  poured  over  it,  to  be  cut  out  in  slices  for  cooking; 
put  in  cheese=cloth  bags  of  the  right  size  to  cut  off  pieces  to 
serve,  or  it  can  be  filled  into  the  small  intestines  for  beef  or 
pigs,  and  tied  into  links.  The  intestines  should  be  cut  into 
pieces  about  a  yard  long;  strip  out  the  contents,  turn  them 
inside  out  on  a  stick;  take  them  off  and  wash  thoroughly  in  warm 
salted  water;  put  to  soak  over  night  in  another  salted  water;  the 
next  day  thoroughly  scrape  them  on  a  board  with  a  dull  knife;  then 
soak  them  another  night  in  salted  water,  when  they  will  be  ready 
foi*  use. 

BOLOGNA  SAUSAGES.— Take  3  lbs.  lean  beef,  3  lbs.  lean  pork, 
2  lbs.  fat  bacon,  1|  lbs.  beef  suet;  put  the  lean  meat  into  a  stew=pan 
of  hot  water,  and  set  it  over  the  fire  for  ^  hour;  then  cut  it  small, 
each  sort  by  itself;  shred  the  suet,  bacon  or  ham,  each  by  itself. 
Season  with  pepper,  thyme,  chopped  fine,  and  ground  mace;  fill  ox- 
skins  with  it,  tie  them  in  lengths,  and  put  them  in  a  beef 
brine  for  10  days;  then  smoke  them  the  same  as  ham  or  tongue. 
Rub  ground  ginger  or  pepper  over  the  outside  after  they  are  smoked, 
and  keep  them  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  (To  prepare  the  skins,  take 
ox  intestines,  cut  them  into  strips  about  6  feet  long,  wash  them 
thoroughly  in  warm  water,  and  then  turn  them  inside  out  and  wash 
again;  scrape  them  with  a  suitable  scraper  designed  for  this  use, 
wash  off,  and  put  them  into  salt  water  to  soak  until  desired  for 
use.     Be  very  careful  not  to  tear  the  skins  while  working  on  them.) 

A  SIMPLE  WAY  TO  SMOKE  MEAT.— Take  a  kerosene  or  rain 
water  barrel,  and  drive  nails  around  the  top  on  which  to  hang  the 
meat;  fill  an  iron  pan  or  pail  half  full  of  ashes,  and  build  a  fire 
in  it;  set  it  in  the  bottom  of  the  barrel,  place  a  board  on  top  and 
cover  with  a  heavy  cloth  or  blanket  to  keep  out  the  air  and  con- 
fine the  smoke.  Those  without  a  smoke  house  can  easily  do  a  little 
smoking  in  this  way. 


CUTTING  UP  AND  CUKING  MEATS  175 

LARD,  TO  MAKE — Cut  the  fat  up  into  pieces  about  2  inches 
square;  fill  a  vessel  holding  about  3  gal.,  with  the  pieces;  put  in  a 
pint  of  boiled  lye  made  from  oak  and  hickory  ashes,  and  strained 
before  using;  boil  gently  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  cracklings  have 
turned  brown;  strain  and  set  aside  to  cool.  This  will  give  more, 
whiter,  and  better  lard  than  any  other  process. 

LARD,  TO  BLEACH. — Apply  a  mixture  of  bichromate  of 
potassa  and  muriatic  acid  in  minute  proportions  to  the  fat. 

LARD,  TO  KEEP  SWEET— When  rendering  (melting)  it, 
throw  into  each  kettle  a  handful  of  slippery  elm  bark.  Add  no 
salt  at  any  time;  the  jars  in  which  it  is  kept  must  be  perfectly 
cleaned.     This  plan  will  keep  it  sweet  even  in  the  warmest  weather. 

BEEF  FAT — This,  if  thoroughly  cooked  in  water  and  the  fat 
skimmed  oiff  as  it  rises,  is  very  nice.  It  will  remain  soft,  and  is  pre- 
ferred to  lard  by  many,  for  various  uses. 

TALLOW,  TO  CLARIFY.— Dissolve  ^  lb.  of  alum  in  1  pint 
of  water;  add  50  lbs.  of  tallow  in  a  jacket  kettle  (^.  e.,  a  kettle, 
set  in  a  larger  one,  and  the  intervening  space  filled  with  water; 
this  prevents  burning  the  tallow);  boil  it  f  of  an  hour  and  skim. 
Then  add  ^  lb.  salt  dissolved  in  1  pint  of  water;  boil  and  skim. 
When  well  clarified  the  tallow  should  be  nearly  the  color  of  water. 

SUET. — Cut  fresh  suet  in  small  pieces  and  cover  them  with 
water;  let  them  remain  in  the  water  bath  24  hours,  but  change 
the  water  once  during  the  time;  this  removes  the  peculiar  tallowy 
taste.  Now  drain  well  and  put  in  an  iron  kettle  with  \  teacup  of 
milk  to  each  pound  of  suet;  let  it  cook  very  slowly  till  the  fat  looks 
clear  and  is  light  brown,  and  till  all  sound  of  cooking  has  ceased. 
Loosen  the  pieces  from  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  to  prevent  scorch- 
ing, but  avoid  stirring;  let  it  stand  till  partly  cooled,  then  pour  into 
cups  to  become  cold.  It  smells  as  sweet  as  butter,  and  can  be 
used  in  place  of  it  for  many  purposes.  The  fat  left  in  the  pieces 
may  be  pressed  out  and  used  in  various  ways. 


HASH  AND  CROQUETTES. 

>  I  /HE  dinner  table  should  be  liberally  supplied  with  both  meat 
\\  f  and  vegetables,  as  it  is  the  principal  meal  of  the  day.  This 
"SJ  I '^  should  be  done  so  that  each  member  of  the  family  can  be  gen- 
erously helped,  remembering  that  a  family  stinted  in  food, 
no  matter  how  finely  dressed,  or  housed,  'can  never  be  in  a  healthful 
condition;  it  also  provides  for  unexpected  guests.  The  remainder  of 
the  dinner,  if  at  noon,  can  be  sliced  cold,  and  served  with  the  supper 
if  needed,  or  minced  the  next  morning  for  hash.  Hash  is  also  a  fine 
accompaniment  on  the  supper  table  in  cold  weather,  when  hungry 
children  come  from  school.  The  meat  for  dinner  need  not  be  of  the 
most  expensive  joints,  for  the  cheaper  cuts  are  quite  as  nutritious, 
and,  if  properly  cooked,  can  be  made  very  palatable. 


HASH  AND  MINCED  MEATS. 

Under  this  head  are  included  recipes  for  mincing  and  re=warm- 
ing  in  an  appetizing  manner,  cold  meat  of  all  kinds,  fish,  etc.,  etc. 
This  minced  meat  is  usually  combined  with  vegetables,  or  bread,  ei- 
ther in  crumbs,  or  toasted  slices,  and  forms  a  series  of  dishes,  both 
economical  and  agreeable  to  the  palate.  The  French  term  Salmis 
{Salmy  by  foreign  cooks)  is  used  more  particularly  to  designate 
minced  game  re=warmed  in  various  ways,  but  in  plain  English  it  is 
simply  hash.  In  making  hash,  and  in  re-warming  any  kind  of  cold 
meat,  do  not  confound  the  term  re= warming  with  re=cooking;  to  re= 
cook  meat  is  to  harden  it,  and  the  secret  of  good  hash  is  to  make  it 
just  piping  hot,  and  no  more. 

HASH. — One  of  the  most  common  forms  in  which  cold  potatoes 
and  meat  left  from  yesterday's  meal  appears,  is — hash.  Not  1  per- 
son in  10  knows  how  to  put  it  together  appetizingly.  Chop  fine  such 
bits  of  cold  meat  as  you  may  have,  add  a  double  quantity  of  potato, 
chopped  fine  also,  mix  well,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  8 
minutes  before  you  wish  to  serve  the  dish,  melt  a  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter in  a  spider,  and,  when  hissing  hot,  put  in  the  hash  and  press  it 
down  well  and  evenly  all  around.  At  the  end  of  the  time  specified, 
have  a  heated  plate  ready,  turn  it  over  the  spider,  tip  the  latter  upside 
down  with  the  plate  beneath,  and  send  your  steaming  "'  hash  cake  " 

176 


HASH  AND  MINCED  MEATS  177 

to  the  table.  This  "  hash  "  can  be  varied  indefinitely.  Some  prefer 
a  larger  portion  of  meat,  others  not  so  much.  Occasionally  a  flavor- 
ing of  chopped  onion  may  be  added,  or  a  spoonful  of  any  good  catsup 
or  sauce  to  give  piquancy.  And  sometimes  for  a  change,  mix  as  di- 
rected, flour  your  hands  well  and  form  into  balls,  and  fry  light  brown 
in  plenty  of  hot  lard. 

Do  not  stir  hash  while  it  is  heating,  for  that  inclines  it  to  stick 
to  the  pan,  and  it  also  makes  the  hash  salvey.  The  very  best  hash  is 
made  with  hot  baked  potatoes,  f  potato  to  ^  of  finely  chopped  meat. 

BAKED  HASH — Chop  finely  the  remnants  of  cold  meat  left 
from  dinner,  chop  cold  potatoes  and  add — there  should  be  twice  as 
much  potato  as  meat.  If  there  are  not  enough  of  cold  potatoes  for 
this  proportion,  dip  2  slices  of  bread  in  cold  milk  or  water,  and  chop; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  herbs,  if  liked,  with  a  bit  of  sliced 
onion.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  in  the  baking=pan, 
put  the  hash  well  mixed  in  the  pan  and  cover  tightly  with  a  plate; 
bake  ^  hour,  and  turn  out  in  a  cake  on  a  hot  dish.  If  it  is  covered 
with  a  white  pie-plate,  that  is  the  best  dish  to  serve  it  on,  as  it  is 
already  hot.     Economical  and  good.     Serve  with  pickles. 

CORNED=BEEF  HASH.— If  the  family  is  large,  in  addition  to 
the  daily  dinner,  it  is  well  to  boil  a  piece  of  corned-beef  every  2  or  3 
days  and  have  this  hash  every  day  or  every  other  day,  either  for  sup- 
per or  breakfast,  as  it  is  economical  and  liked  by  most  people.  Not- 
withstanding the  threadbare  jokes  about  "  hash-mills,  "  "  hash^factor- 
ies,"  mysteries,"  etc.,  people  still  like  a  good  dish  of  hash  when  they 
have  "confidence  in  the  cook."  Cook  the  beef  slowly  until  done;  let 
it  get  cold  in  the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in,  then  take  it  out,  wipe  it  dry, 
and  it  is  ready  to  chop.  Use  the  fat  and  lean  together,  and  the  cold 
fat  from  the  top  of  the  kettle  to  heat  with  the  hash.  Have  the  pota- 
toes quite  cold,  or  they  will  stick  to  the  chopping  knife.  A  lady  with 
a  large  family  of  fashionable  boarders,  told  the  writer  that  this  dish 
was  often  called  for  at  her  table. 

FRENCH  HASH — Take  cold  bits  of  meat  left  from  a  roast  of 
beef,  chicken  or  cold  turkey,  finely  minced,  add  gravy  enough  to 
make  moist;  when  quite  hot,  place  the  mixture  over  toast.  This 
is  a  very  nice  breakfast  dish. 

HAM  HASH — Take  equal  parts  of  potato,  boiled  ham  and  bread, 
chopped  fine,  and  cooked  in  hot  fat  left  from  frying  ham;  cook  about 
10  minutes,  and  season  with  pepper  when  it  is  ready  to  be  dished. 

SCOTCH  HASH. — Chop  raw  beef  very  fine;  add  butter  about 
the  size  of  an  egg,  pepper,  salt,  and  chopped  parsley;  cover  with 

12 


178  HASH  AND  MINCED  MEATS 

water,  stew  15  minutes,  keeping  it  covered.      Pour  it  over  slices  of 
toasted  bread. 

TURKEY  HASH. — Mince  the  remnants  of  turkey  left  from  a 
previous  dinner.  Boil  the  bones  in  a  quart  of  water  until  the 
quart  is  reduced  to  a  pint;  then  strain,  add  turkey  gravy  if  you  have 
it,  a  bit  of  butter  if  the  turkey  is  not  fat,  with  a  seasoning  of  salt  and 
pepper;  if  there  is  dressing  left,  boil  it  in  with  the  bones.  Dredge 
a  little  flour  over  the  minced  turkey,  i)ut  it  in  the  hot  gravy  and 
let  it  just  come  to  boiling  heat.  Serve  in  a  hot  dish  on  slices 
of  toasted  bread. 

VEAL  HASH. — Chop  |  pint  of  fricasseed  veal  (do  not  make 
it  as  fine  as  for  croquettes);  put  veal  fat,  beef  dripping  or  butter,  in 
the  stew'pan  with  the  meat;  if  you  have  no  broth  or  gravy,  add 
hot  water  enough  to  wet  the  meat.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
dredge  on  a  little  flour,  stir  all  together,  put  in  a  hot  dish,  with 
slices  of  Itoasted  bread  or  crackers  in  the  bottom,  and  send  to  the 
table  with  baked  potatoes. 

VEGETABLE  HASH — Take  equal  parts  of  boiled  vegetables, 
corned^beef,  and  salt  pork,  choj)ped  together;  this  makes  a  fine  hash. 
When  you  have  a  boiled  dinner,  always  have  enough  left  to  make 
hash  for  breakfast  the  next  morning.  The  vegetables  used  are 
potatoes,  turnips,  cabbage,  beets,  and  parsnips  or  carrots;  put  the  fat 
from  the  kettle  in  which  the  dinner  was  boiled,  in  a  large  frying-pan, 
and  let  it  melt;  then  put  in  the  hash,  smooth  it  down,  put  a  pie- 
plate  over  it  to  keep  in  the  steam,  set  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove 
for  15  or  20  minutes  until  thoroughly  heated,  and  dish  it  in  the  hot 
plate  which  covered  it.  Vegetable  hash  is  often  made  without  meat, 
and  is  much  liked  by  most  people. 

HASH  PIE — Take  any  kind  of  cold  meat  and  chop  it  finely; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  in  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  then  a 
layer  of  meat,  then  crumbs,  until  the  dish  is  full.  Make  a  gravy, 
pour  it  over,  and  bake. 

SCRAPPLE — This  can  be  made  of  odds  and  ends  of  fresh  meat 
such  as  would  be  used  for  soups — pigs'  heads  and  feet,  beef  shanks 
and  trimmings.  Boil  the  meat  with  sufiicient  water  to  cover  it  well, 
until  the  meat  separates  from  the  bones ;  then  take  it  up,  remove  the 
bones,  cut,  or  chop  the  meat  finely,  and  return  it  to  the  broth ;  add  salt, 
pepper,  and  herbs,  if  liked.  Let  it  boil  up  again  and  thicken  it  with 
corn-meal  to  make  a  stiff  mush,  and  cook  it  thoroughly.  Put  it  in 
bread  pans  to  solidify,  and,  when  cold,  cut  off  in  slices  and  fry  in  salt 


CROQUETTES  179 

pork  fat,  dripping,  or  sausage  fat.  This  is  an  inexpensive  dish,  and 
excellent  in  cold  weather,  for  supper  or  breakfast.  Finely  minced 
remnants  of  any  kinds  of  cold  meats,  with  the  gravy,  can  be  utilized 
in  the  above  manner,  instead  of  the  fresh  meat. 

PILAFF. 

1  onion.  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

2  cups  minced  cold  meat.  1  teacup  rice. 
1  pint  tomatoes. 

Put  the  butter  iii  a  frying-pan,  and  cut  the  onion  in,  then  fry  to 
a  delicate  brown;  add  the  rice,  and  brown  that  in  the  butter,  taking 
care  not  to  let  it  scorch.  Next  add  the  tomatoes  and  1  pint  of  hot 
water;  cover  and  cook  until  the  rice  is  done,  adding  more  water  if 
needed,  but  it  should  not  be  watery  when  done.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  cayenne,  and  curry  powder  if  liked;  then  put  in  the 
chopped  meat,  stir  well,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

POTTED  MEAT  OR  FISH — All  kinds  of  meats  can  be  potted, 
and  the  same  general  principles  hold  good  for  all.  Take  the  cooked 
meat  or  fish,  remove  it  from  the  bones,  clear  away  all  skin  and  gris- 
tle, and  pound  it  in  a  mortar.  It  should  be  well  pounded,  reduced  to 
a  smooth  paste,  and  no  unbroken  fibre  left.  Then  add  spices,  pepper, 
salt,  made  mustard,  mace  and  cayenne;  the  amount  used  varies.  If 
it  is  intended  for  immediate  use,  add  the  spices  sparingly;  if  to  be 
kept  some  time,  spice  highly.  Then  moisten  with  melted  butter,  and 
press  the  mixture  down  in  small  pots  or  jars  of  stone  or  earthenware, 
and  let  it  get  thoroughly  hot  in  the  oven;  or  better,  steam  it  30  min- 
utes in  the  steamer.  Then  press  down  again  and  cover  with  hot 
•clarified  butter  or  beef  suet,  and  tie  paper  dipped  in  egg  over  the  top. 
Game  of  all  kinds,  fish  and"  beef,  are  best  put  up  alone,  but  chicken 
or  veal  can  be  mixed  with  tongue  or  ham.  This  potted  meat  can  be 
used  in  slices,  or  for  sandwiches,  and  as  it  will  keep  for  weeks  if 
properly  put  up,  it  ojffers  a  change  from  hashes  or  stews,  for  using 
remnants  of  food  which  are  left  over. 


CROQUETTES. 

These  are  somewhat  allied  to  hash,  as  they  are  only  elaborate 
dishes  made  of  finely  cut  meats,  or  with  fish,  oysters,  vegetables,  rice 
etc.,  or  of  several  of  these  ingredients  combined.  They  are  formed 
into  rolls  or  ovals,  and  usually  fried  in  smoking  hot  fat,  after  they  are 
egged  and  bread  crumbed.  Drain  on  paper,  or  a  wire  sieve,  paper 
being  best.     The  mixture  may  be  stiffened  by  working-  in  a  little  fine 


180  CKOQUETTES 

cracker  dust,  if  too  soft  to  roll  well,  but  it  is  apt  to  be  made  too  stiff 
if  any  uncooked  material  like  flour  is  added. 

If  the  fat  in  which  they  are  fried  is  not  hot  enough  they  will 
burst  open,  especially  rice  and  potato  croquettes. 

Time  to  fry,  about  1  to  2  minutes. 

BAKED  CROQUETTES — Take  2  cups  finely  chopped  veal,  ^  cup 
dried  bread  crumbs,  1  egg,  well  beaten,  1  teaspoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon 
pepper,  a  pinch  of  mace;  form  into  croquettes,  roll  in  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

BRAIN  CROQUETTES.— Put  2  oz.  of  butter  or  beef  drippings 
into  a  sauce^pan  and  set  on  the  stove;  when  the  butter  has  melted, 
add  1  small  onion  chopped  fine;  let  it  brown,  then  add  calf's  brains 
cut  in  small  pieces,  a  small  slice  of  bread  first  soaked  in  cold  water 
and  squeezed  dry,  a  little  thyme,  minced  parsley,  \  nutmeg  grated,  a 
little  cayenne  pepper  and  salt;  heat  these  all  well,  then  remove  from 
the  stove  and  add  ^  cup  of  milk  and  1  egg,  well  beaten.  Mix  all 
thoroughly  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  form  into  croquettes, 
dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  brown  in  hot 
fat. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES— To  2  cups  of  cold  boiled  chicken, 
finely  minced,  add  1  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  2  well  beaten  eggs, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  add  a  little  cream  if  not  moist  enough — it 
should  be  as  soft  as  can  be,  and  keep  its  shape  after  being  molded. 
Have  ready  on  the  fire  a  kettle  of  hot  fat;  flour  the  hands  and  make 
the  croquettes  into  rolls  a  little  larger  than  English  walnuts;  dip 
them  in  beaten  eggs,  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs;  place  in  a  wire  bas- 
ket and  fry  in  the  hot  fat  until  a  golden  brown;  drain  on  a  wire 
sieve,  then  keep  them  hot  until  time  to  serve. 

Chicken  Croquettes  No.  2. — Take  1  cup  finely  chopped  chicken,  1  cup 
finely  sifted  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  white  pepper, 
■|  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  and  ^  cup  stock,  made  by  boiling  the 
bones  of  the  chicken;  heat  all  together,  and  then  stir  in  1  beaten  egg. 
When  cold,  form  into  croquettes,  roll  each  in  fine  bread  crumbs, 
then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again.  Put  them  carefully  into 
the  frying=basket,  and  plunge  it  into  smoking  hot  fat  for  1  or  2  min- 
utes. 

CHICKEN  AND  OYSTER  CROQUETTES— Take  one  cup  of  cold 
chicken,  chopped  fine,  1  saucer  of  cold,  escalloped  oysters,  also  chop- 
ped, \  cup  sifted  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  mace,  and  1  egg. 
beaten  light;  add  a  little  broth  made  of  the  bones  of  the  chicken  boil- 


CEOQUETTES  181 

ed  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  them.  Have  the  mixture  as  soft  as 
you  can  handle  it,  form  into  long  rolls  as  large  as  a  man's  finger,  roll 
in  sifted  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Serve  with  slices  of 
lemon. 

FISH  CROQUETTES — Remnants  of  any  cold  fish,  egg,  bread 
crumos,  cayenne,  salt,  and  fat  for  frying  are  needed  for  these.  Flake 
the  fish  finely,  season  to  taste,  add  an  equal  quantity  of  bread 
crumbs;  make  a  stiff  paste  with  beaten  egg;  form  into  round  balls 
about  an  inch  thick  and  3  or  4  inches  long,  and  fry  them  a  golden 
brown  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

HOMINY  CROQUETTES.— Soak  1  cup  hominy  in  water  all 
night,  and  the  next  morning  boil  it  till  tender  in  1  quart  milk;  let  it 
cool,  add  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  egg,  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
cayenne.  When  cool,  shape  it  in  balls,  egg  and  bread=crumb  each, 
and  fry  in  hot  fat.     Serve  with  tomato  or  onion  sauce. 

LOBSTER  CROQUETTES.— Use  the  fresh  or  canned  lobster; 
strain  off  all  the  liquor  and  chop  fine.  Take  2  slices  of  bread,  soak 
in  water,  remove  the  crust,  squeeze  dry,  and  mix  with  the  lobster; 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  mix  to  a  paste 
with  a  well  beaten  egg.  Form  into  cakes,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then 
in  sifted  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

MEAT  CROQUETTES.— Use  1  quart  of  meat,  either  chicken, 
veal  or  lamb,  chopped  but  not  too  fine.  To  this  quantity  allow  1 
cup  stock  or  gravy,  1  cup  rich  milk  or  cream,  2  large  tablespoons 
of  butter,  2  large  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon 
onion  juice,  cayenne  and  white  pepper  to  taste,  mace  and  any  sweet 
herbs  liked  for  seasoning  meat,  and  1  large  cup  boiled  rice.  Melt 
the  butter  in  a  sauce^pan,  add  flour,  stir,  then  add  stock  or  gravy, 
then  the  milk;  when  thick  so  that  it  can  be  raised  from  the  pan 
with  a  spoon,  add  meat,  rice  and  seasoning;  stir  till  thoroughly  mixed. 
Remove  from  fire,  pour  into  a  large  flat  dish  and  leave  till  perfectly 
cold,  then  form  with  the  hand  into  cone  or  pear  shapes,  roll  in  bread 
crumbs,  then  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again,  and  fry  in  smoking 
hot  lard.  Turn  with  a  long  handled  skimmer  and  when  brown  lift 
out  and  place  on  brown  paper  to  absorb  the  surplus  fat.  Set  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  5  minutes  and  serve. 

OYSTER  CROQUETTES — Take  the  oysters,  beard  them  and 
cnop  fine,  and  mix  into  a  firm  paste  with  bread  crumbs,  moistened 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  seasoned  with  parsley,  sweet  marjoram,  pep- 
per and  salt.  Cut  into  finger-shaped  pieces,  and  fry  a  delicate  color. 
Strain  and  serve  piled  high  on  a  dish,  garnished  with  parsley. 


182  CKOQUETTES 

POTATO  CROQUETTES.— Take  2  cups  cold  mashed  potatoes,  2 
eggs,  salt  to  taste,  ^  cup  fine  cracker  crumbs;  mix  well,  and  roll  on 
the  kneading  board  with  the  hands  in  round  cakes  or  long  ones; 
scatter  a  little  fine  cracker  dust  on  the  board;  egg  and  bread-crumb, 
and  fry  until  brown  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTES.— Take  ^  cup  rice,  boil  until  soft,  let  it 
cool  and  beat  into  it  2  eggs,  2  spoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt;  mold 
into  balls,  egg  and  bread= crumb,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

RICE  AND  CHICKEN  CROQUETTES.— Take  1  cup  cold  chopped 
chicken,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  one  cup  boiled  rice; 
heat  together  on  a  teakettle,  pail  or  double  boiler,  and  if  the  mixture 
seems  dry,  add  a  little  milk;  when  hot,  stir  in  1  egg,  beaten  light,  and 
take  from  the  fire  when  thoroughly  mixed.  When  cold,  shape  into 
balls,  egg  and  bread-crumb,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

VEAL  CROQUETTES Take   1   heaping  cup  of  cold  chopped 

veal,  1  cup  fine,  dry  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley,  a  pinch  each  of  sage  and  red  pep- 
per, 2  teaspoons  lemon  juice;  moisten  with  sweet 
milk,  heat  it,  and  add  1  egg,  well  beaten;  use  milk 
enough  to  make  it  as  soft  as  you  can  handle  when 
it  is  cold.  When  cold,  form  it  into  croquettes,  egg 
and  bread=crumb,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

The  Sage  is  a  hardy  shrub,  a  native  of  the  south  of 
Europe.  There  are  several  kinds  of  it,  known  as  the  red,  the 
green,  etc.  Its  principal  use  in  cookery  is  for  stuffini^  and 
sauces,  the  red  being  most  agreeable  for  this  use,   and  the  sage. 

green  next.  The  other  varieties  are  used  for  medical 
purposes. 

KROMESKIES.— Kromeskies  are  croquettes  cooked  in  the  Rus- 
sian manner;  they  are  made  as  follows:  Mince  the  remains  of  any 
cold  meat,  fish,  poultry,  or  shell  fish,  as  for  croquettes;  season  them 
nicely,  and  shape  like  a  cork.  Instead  of  dipping  them  in  egg,  and 
afterwards  in  bread  crumbs,  cut  some  slices  of  cold  fat  bacon 
(boiled)  as  thin  as  writing  paper;  wrap  the  croquettes  in  these,  dip 
each  one  in  a  little  frying  batter,  fry  them  in  hot  clarified  fat,  and 
when  brown  and  crisp,  arrange  neatly  on  a  hot  dish;  garnish  with 
fried  parsley,  and  serve  immediately.  Kromeskies  may  be  made 
according  to  any  of  the  recipes  given  for  croquettes,  and  should  be 
cooked  as  above. 

SCOTCH  COLLOPS — Cut  away  the  fat  and  any  skinny  portions 
there  may  be  from  about  1|  lbs.  of  steak,  and  mince  it  finely,  sea- 
soning it  well  with  salt  and  pepper.    An  onion  can  be  added,  if  liked, 


CEOQUETTES  183 

but  this  is  a  matter  of  taste.  Melt  a  little  butter  in  a  stew-pan,  put 
in  the  mince  and  stir  it  frequently  to  keep  it  from  getting  into 
lumps.  In  about  8  minutes,  dredge  a  little  flour  over  it,  and  pour 
upon  it  a  little  stock,  boiling  hot.  Let  it  simmer  gently  a  minute  or 
two  longer,  and  serve  very  hot.  Three-cornered  pieces  of  toasted 
bread  may  be  put  around  the  dish  as  a  garnish. 

KOUFTAS  (An  Indian  Dish) — Chop  cold  meat  finely,  season 
it  well  with  pepper,  salt  and  spice,  make  it  into  a  paste  with  the  yolk 
of  egg,  form  it  into  cakes,  and  fry  (saut6)  it  brown  in  butter. 


EGGS. 

VTTT^HE  eggs  of  different  birds  vary  much  in  size  and  color. 
^  I  /  Those  of  the  ostrich  are  the  largest.  They  are  said  to  be 
JL  pleasant  in  taste,  and  to  keep  longer  than  hens'  eggs.  The 
eggs  of  the  goose  are  large,  but  well  flavored,  while  turkey 
eggs  are  almost  as  mild  as  hens'  eggs.  Ducks'  eggs  have  a  rich 
flavor,  and  the  albumen  is  slightly  transpauent,  or  bluish  when  set  by 
boiling.  Guinea  fowls'  eggs  are  smaller  and  more  delicate  than 
those  of  the  hen.  The  eggs  of  wild  fowl  generally  i3artake  somewhat 
of  the  flavor  of  the  bird  they  belong  to.  Those  of  sea=fowl  have  a 
fishy  taste  more  or  less  strong.  The  eggs  of  the  turtle  consist  of 
yolk  only,  without  shell,  and  are  delicious.  Hens'  eggs  are  the  ones 
principally  used,  and  when  raw  they  weigh  2  to  2^  oz.  The  white  of 
an  egg  is  principally  albumen,  while  the  yolk  contains  most  of  the 
fat  found  in  the  egg,  and  most  of  the  mineral  matters,  the  latter 
being  principally  sulphur  and  phosphate  of  lime. 

Eggs  are  deficient  in  the  carbohydrates,  and  hence  bread,  pota- 
toes, rice,  or  other  starchy  foods,  should  be  eaten  with  them  to 
supply  the  elements  they  lack.  It  will  be  wise  to  use  eggs  freely,  as 
they  are  nutriment  in  its  most  portable  and  concentrated  form,  and 
they  are  palatable  to  all  classes  of  people.  They  are  strengthening 
to  consumptives  and  to  all  feeble  persons,  and  young  children. 
They  are  medicine  as  well  as  food.  The  white  of  an  egg  is  a  sooth- 
ing application  for  a  burn,  as  it  coats  it  over  and  excludes  the  air, 
and  it  is  an  antidote  for  various  poisons  like  corrosive  sublimate, 
creosote  and  acids,  as  these  articles  coagulate  albumen,  and  if  white 
of  egg  is  given  soon  after  they  enter  the  system,  it  combines  with 
them  and  protects  the  stomach. 

Children  do  not  receive  into  their  systems  a  sufficient  supply  of  lime  for  the 
development  of  bones,  if  eggs  form  a  large  part  of  their  diet,  for  the  albumen  and 
vitellin  of  eggs,  although  highly  nutritious,  and  adapted  to  the  making  of  muscle, 
is  deficient  in  lime.  The  embryo  chicken  takes  its  lime  for  the  growth  of  bone 
from  the  shell  of  the  egg,  which  diminishes  in  thickness  day  by  day,  until  the  time 
of  hatching,  when  it  becomes  so  thin  as  to  be  easily  broken  for  the  escape  of  the 
chicken.  If  the  water  supply  of  the  family  is  in  a  limestone  formation,  children 
will  get  a  sufficiency  of  lime  through  the  medium  of  water;  but  if  the  rock  forma- 
tion is  primitive,  and  the  water  very  soft,  the  defect  may  be  remedied  by  the  use 
of  lime=water,  as  explained  in  the  chapter  on  "Invalid  Cookery." 

Invalids  should  never  be  given  eggs  which  are  more  than  2  or  S  days  old,  as 
they  will  then  have  begun  to  deteriorate.  The  albumen  in  an  egg  will  not  become 
thick  enough  to  beat  well  until  it  has  been  laid  about  10  hours;  for  boiling  or 
poaching,  eggs  1'^  days  old  are  best.  The  philosophy  of  cooking  eggs  is 
explained  in  our  article  on  the  principles  and  processes  of  ^cooking  meat,  which 
Bee. 

181 


EGGS  185 

In  hreahing  eggs,  each  one  should  be  broken  separately  into  a 
cup,  and  then  there  will  be  no  danger  that  a  bad  egg  will  spoil  other 
eggs  or  materials.  Also  be  careful  not  to  break  the  yolks,  as  that 
will  spoil  them  for  poaching,  frying,  etc. 

When  putting  eggs  in  to  hoil,  great  care  should  be  taken  not  to 
crack  the  shell,  as  a  portion  of  the  white  will  then  exude  inevitably, 
and  it  lets  water  into  the  egg.  When  fresh  eggs  are  dropped  into  a 
large  quantity  of  boiling  water,  they  crack,  because  the  interior, 
being  full,  is  expanded  by  the  heat,  and  the  shells  give  way.  If  the 
quantity  of  water  is  small,  the  shells  do  not  crack,  because  putting 
cold  eggs  into  hot  water  lowers  its  temperature.  Stale  eggs  do  not 
crack  because  the  air  inside  is  easily  compressed.  Prick  pin-holes  in 
the  large  end  of  the  shell  to  keep  the  contents  from  oozing  out 
through  the  crack,  if  an  egg  is  cracked  before  putting  it  into  the 
water. 

Eggs  should  always  be  washed  as  soon  as  they  come  into  the 
house.  Take  a  little  cloth  and  carefully  remove  every  particle  of  soil 
from  the  eggs,  and  then  the  shells  will  be  ready  to  use  in  clarifying 
coffee  or  soups. 

COLORING  AND  DYEING  EGGS.— Eggs  can  be  easily  dyed  for 
Easter,  etc.  The  aniline  dyes  are  useful  for  the  purpose.  A  simple 
plan  is  to  place  the  eggs  in  colored  water  and  boil  them  in  it.  Mot- 
toes, monograms,  etc.,  may  be  produced  as  follows:  Draw  upon  the 
shell  with  simple  oil  and  a  camel's  hair  brush,  whatever  name  or  de- 
vice it  is  wished  to  display;  then  place  it  in  the  coloring  liquid  and 
the  portions  touched  with  oil  will  remain  white,  while  the  remainder 
will  be  dyed.  In  a  similar  way  the  ground  may  be  left  white  while 
the  designs  are  colored.  Wrapping  them  in  calico  which  is  brightly 
colored,  and  then  boiling  them  in  lye,  will  also  color  them.  Eggs 
can  be  colored  brown  by  boiling  them  in  strong  coffee,  and  yellow 
with  onion  peeling  Cochineal  will  color  them  any  shade  from  crim- 
son to  pink,  according  to  the  quantity  used.  Logwood  chips  will 
color  them  any  shade  from  port  wine  to  black,  by  varying  the 
quantity  used.  They  can  be  made  like  gold  or  silver  by  coating 
them  with  painters'  size  (after  boiling  them  hard)  and  then  rolling 
them  in  a  plate  containing  gold  or  silver  dust,  such  as  bookbinders 
use,  until  they  are  entirely  covered,  or  a  name  or  other  device  may 
be  put  on  in  this  way.  A  little  butter  or  oil  rubbed  over  the  egg 
when  it  is  sufficiently  cool  to  handle,  after  being  boiled,  gives  it  a 
nice  bright  look. 

BAKED  EGGS. — Cut  nice  toast  into  squares.  Take  eggs  out  of 
the  shell,  keeping  yolks  whole.     Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  frotli,  lay 


186  EGGS 

the  beaten  white  around  nicely  on  the  toast,  drop  yolks  in  center  of 
white  ring,  sprinkle  on  salt  and  put  in  hot  oven  to  bake  a  few  min- 
utes. When  taken  out  of  the  oven,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  on 
the  toast. 

No  2. — Grease  a  pie-plate  well  with  butter,  break  into  it  as  many 
eggs  as  it  will  conviently  hold,  and  bake  until  the  whites  are  fully 
set  and  the  yolks  slightly  hardened;  slip  them  on  to  a  hot  platter, 
and  drop  bits  of  butter  over  them,  w^tli  a  sprinkling  of  salt. 

TO  BOIL  EGGS. — Many  fairly  good  cooks  do  not  know  how  to 
boil  eggs  in  the  best  manner.  There  are  2  good  ways.  One  is  to 
put  them  into  cold  water,  gradually  bring  it  to  a  boil,  and  as  soon 
as  the  water  commences  to  boil,  they  will  be  done.  Another  way  is 
to  put  them  into  a  sauce^pan  and  pour  on  boiling  water  enough  to 
cover  them;  pouring  the  hot  water  on  the  eggs  will  lower  its  temper- 
ature a  little;  then  let  it  simmer,  not  boil,  until  they  are  done, 
keeping  the  water  about  180°  to  185°. 

It  takes  longer  to  cook  eggs  in  this  way  than  when  they  are  put 
into  boiling  water,  but  when  done,  they  will  be  jelly-like  instead  of 
tough  and  leathery,  and  are  more  easily  digested.  The  length  of 
time  to  leave  them  in  the  water  depends  on  the  individual  taste. 
An  egg  to  be  soft=boiled  should  not  be  cooked  in  boiling  water,  for 
then  the  albumen  near  the  outside  will  become  tough  before  the  yolk 
is  heated.  To  hard-boil  an  egg,  it  needs  only  to  be  left  in  the  sim- 
mering water  longer — say  20  to  80  minutes ;  it  will  then  be  solid  but 
not  leathery;  the  yolk  is  more  mealy  when  cooked  20  minutes  then 
when  cooked  10.  Eggs  for  salads,  etc.,  should  be  thus  hard-boiled, 
and,  when  done,  put  in  a  basin  of  cold  water  a  few  minutes;  then 
roll  them  on  the  table  with  the  hand  and  the  shell  will  peel  off  easily. 
Do  not  cut  up  eggs  for  garnishing  purposes  until  about  the  time 
they  are  needed,  or  the  yolk  will  dry  up  and  get  discolored. 

Breakfast  Eggs. — A  nice  breakfast  dish  is  made  by  taking  eggs 
from  the  shell  and  boiling  them  2  minutes  in  a  cup  of  sweet  cream; 
then  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

CREAMED  EGGS.— Remove  the  shells  from  6  hard-boiled  eggs, 
cut  them  in  halves,  and  cut  a  slice  off  the  round  end,  enough  to  make 
them  stand.  Put  one  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  sauce=^pan  to  melt; 
add  1  tablespoon  flour,  mix  till  smooth,  add  1  teacup  milk  or  cream, 
and  stir  until  it  boils;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stand  the 
eggs  on  a  heated  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over,  and  serve. 

CURRIED  EGGS— Cut  some  hard  boil.^d  eggs  in  halves;  cut  off 
the  white  end  sufficiently  to  make  thoiii  stand  upright;  then  pour 
some  curry  sauce  around  them,  and  serve. 


EGGS  187 

DEVILED  EGGS. — Boil  1  doz.  eggs  hard;  cut  in  two,  length.- 
wisGj  take  out  the  yolks,  and  mash  them.  Prepare  2  teapoons  of 
mustard  by  pouring  a  very  little  boiling  water  on,  and  mix  smooth; 
add  a  small  teaspoon  of  butter,  1  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  a  few 
drops  of  vinegar.  Mix  some  of  the  prepared  mustard  with  the  yolks, 
and  refill  the  white  part  of  eggs  with  the  dressing.  They  make  a 
nice  garnish  for  lettuce,  and  also  a  nice  dish  for  picnics.  Other  stuff- 
ings can  be  devised  and  filled  into  the  whites  in  the  same  way.  Cut 
them  in  two  crosswise  instead  of  lengthwise,  if  preferred. 

DROPPED  EGGS  ON  TOAST.— Have  ready  a  dish  of  boiling 
water,  well  salted,  break  the  eggs  into  a  saucer,  and  slide  into  the 
water,  one  at  a  time.  Let  the  water  keep  at  boiling  point,  but  not 
bubble,  anddijp'the  water  with  a  spoon  over  the  top  of  the  eggs. 
Have  ready  some  nice  buttered  toast,  take  the  eggs  up  with  a  skim- 
mer, lay  on  the  toast,  dust  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  them,  and 
serve. 

ESCALLOPED  EGGS.— Boil  1  doz.  eggs  for  25  minutes;  put  in 
cold  water  and  take  off  the  shells.  Slice  the  eggs,  and  put  them  in 
a  pudding^dish  in  alternate  layers  with  bread  crumbs,  having  a  layer 
of  the  finest  crumbs  on  the  top  of  the  dish.  Season  each  layer  of 
eggs  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  if  liked,  and  be- 
fore .putting  on  the  top  layer  of  crumbs,  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  sweet 
cream.  Bake  until  browned  on  the  top.  Serve  hot.  A  good  coun- 
try dish  for  luncheon,  tea  or  breakfast. 

FRIED  EGGS — Take  a  hot  frying=pan,  put  in  a  lump  of  butter, 
let  it  melt,  and  then  drop  in  the  eggs;  let  them  fry  3  minutes;  add 
salt  and  pepper  to  season;  lift  out  with  a  skimmer.  The  nicest  way, 
however,  is  to  use  the  egg  molds  now  made  for  the  purpose  in 
various  sizes.  In  each  mold  put  a  piece  of  butter,  and  when  melted, 
drop  in  the  eggs;  to  prevent  the  under  side  from  being  over=done, 
loosen  the  edges  every  few  seconds;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
take  out  with  a  spoon  when  done.  Sorrel,  spinach  and  green  salads 
are  nice  with  them.  If  a  few  eggs  are  fried  in  a  large  mold,  put  hot 
water  in  the  unused  forms. 

Cold  Fried  Eggs  can  be  used  for  salad,  or  revamped  by  dipping 
them  in  fritter  batter,  and  frying.  A  fine  sauce  for  fried  eggs  is 
made  of  stewed  tomatoes,  grated  cheese,  and  a  couple  of  chopped  up 
boiled  sausages. 

EGG  GEMS. — Mix  together  chopped  cold  meat  and  bread 
crumbs,   in  equal  quantities.     If  liked,  a  tiny  bit  of  onion,  chopped 


188  EGGS 

very  fine,  may  be  added  to  the  meat  and  crumbs.  Season  with  pep- 
per, salt,  a  spoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  enough  milk  to  wet  and 
bind  it  together  nicely.  Have  some  gem=pans  well  greased,  and  fill 
with  the  mixture;  then  break  an  egg  carefully  on  the  top  of  each, 
season  it  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  sj)rinkle  some  fine  cracker 
or  bread  crumbs  on  the  top.     Bake  8  minutes. 

EQQ  NESTS. — Dip  slices  of  toast  quickly  in  hot  water,  spread 
lightly  with  butter,  pile  on,  in  the  shape  of  nests,  stiffly  beaten  and 
salted  whites  of  eggs,  place  a  yolk  in  the  center  of  each,  and  bake  8 
minutes. 

OMELETS. — These  light  and  simple  dishes  require  practice  to 
prepare  them  to  perfection.  Do  not  cook  them  until  just  before  they 
are  needed,  and  then  serve  them  at  once  on  a  very  hot  dish.  The 
mixing  is  simpler  than  the  cooking.  Any  smooth  iron  spider  will 
answer,  but  have  it  very  clean.  Have  a  clear  fire,  and  the  pan  hot 
before  making  the  omelet.  Mix  the  omelet,  moisten  the  bottom  of 
the  pan  with  a  little  butter,  pour  in  the  omelet  and  as  soon  as  slightly 
brown  underneath,  turn  one  half  over  the  other  with  a  knife,  let  it 
harden  a  moment,  and  turn  out  on  a  plate,  or  lift  out  with  a  pancake 
turner.  Brown  the  omelet  merely — never  burn  it,  as  the  scorched 
egg  flavor  is  an  injury  to  it.  Numerous  flavorings  can  be  added,  and 
the  name  will  be  derived  from  the  meat,  fish,  vegetable  or  herb  used. 

Omelet,  No.  I — Beat  6  eggs  very  light,  the  yolks  and  whites  sepa- 
rate; add  I  teaspoon  salt,  and  3  tablespoons  of  milk;  have  a  very  hot 
pan,  put  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  pour  in  the  egg  mixture,  shake  on 
the  hottest  part  of  the  stove  until  the  egg  begins  to  thicken,  then 
place  on  a  grate  in  the  oven  until  set;  run  the  knife  between  the 
omelet  and  pan,  fold  the  omelet  over,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Omelet  No.  2 — Take  6  eggs,  beat  yolks  and  whites  separately;  add 
1  teacup  milk,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  tablespoon  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.     Cook,  and  serve  hot. 

Baked  Omelet. — Take  4  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately; 
1  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  a  little  salt;  add  the  whites 
just  before  putting  the  mixture  in  the  oven.  Bake  20  minutes  in  a 
well=buttered  dish. 

Baked  Omelet  No.  2.— Six  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of 
flour,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Mix 
the  flour,  milk  and  salt,  add  the  yolks,  then  add  beaten  whites.  Have 
a  buttered  spider  very  hot;  pour  in.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  5  min- 
utes. 

Green  Corn  Omelet — Take  6  ears   corn,  grate  or  cut  the    kernels 


EGGS  189 

fine,  add  4  eggs,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  cup  milk;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  bake  |-  hour. 

Orange  Omelet. — Mix  a  little  orange  juice,  grated  rind,  and  sugar, 
with  the  eggs  before  cooking  them.  Or  (2)  slice  the  oranges,  remov- 
ing the  seeds  and  skin;  make  a  plain  omelet,  and  fold  the  omelet 
over  part  of  the  oranges,  and  sioread  the  rest  on  top  when  it  is 
done,  sugaring  the  top  also. 

Queen  Omelet. — Use  2  extra  yolks  to  every  egg.  Beat  fast  for  2 
minutes.  Have  the  frying=pan  or  spider  hot,  with  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg;  set  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake.  When  done  it  will 
be  a  light  puff,  and  the  extra  yolks  will  keep  it  in  shape  and  prevent 
its  falling.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  and,  if  liked,  with  sugar;  turn  on  a 
hot  plate,  sprinkle  the  other  side  with  salt,  and  send  to  the  table. 

Rice  Omelet. — To  1  cup  of  steamed  or  boiled  rice,  add  1  cup  of 
water,  3  well  beaten  eggs,  and  1  teaspoon  of  butter;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and,  if  liked,  with  a  little  finely  chopped  ham.  Bake 
until  it  is  a  light  brown. 

Sweet  Omelet. — Do  not  use  any  pepper,  but  add  a  little  sugar — 
about  1  teaspoon  for  each  egg.  Make  like  a  plain  omelet,  and  when 
done,  sprinkle  sugar  on  top.  This  can  be  varied  by  putting  any 
desired  kind  of  jam,  jelly,  marmalade  or  preserves  on  top,  or  they  can 
be  folded  inside  when  the  omelet  is  folded  over. 

Omelette  Souffle. — Beat  thoroughly  together  the  yolks  of  6  eggs 
and  6  tablespoons  of  pulverized  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon, 
and  then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  lightly 
and  quickly  with  the  yolks  and  sugar;  bake  in  an  enameled  puddings 
dish,  or  in  small  paper  souffle  cases,  one  for  each  person.  The 
souffles  should  bake  10  or  15  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  and 
be  sent  to  the  table  immediately,  as  they,  soon  fall.  Blanched  and 
pulverized  sweet  almonds  can  be  added  to  the  above  for  Almond 
Souffle. 

Various  Omelets. — Any  sort  of  an  omelet  can  be  made  by  folding 
into  the  omelet  either  sardines,  tomatoes,  ham,  oysters,  cheese,  kid- 
ney, mushrooms,  macaroni,  or  whatever  one  desires  or  has  on  hand. 
Asparagus  tops  are  nice  in  an  omelet.  The  ingenious  cook  can 
devise  many  new  and  attractive  dishes. 

POACHED  EGGS — Break  the  eggs  separately  into  a  cup;  let 
them  slide  gently  into  boiling  water  with  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  in 
it.  Take  them  out  and  serve  on  hot  buttered  toast.  They  are  often 
conveniently  poached  in  a  frying  pan;  when  poached  in  quantities 
they  are  ai:)t  to  run  together.  In  poaching  eggs,  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar  in  the  water  keeps  the  whites  from  spreading. 


190  EGGS 

EQGS  POACHED  IN  QRAVY.— Poach  the  eggs  in  gravy  instead 
of  water.  Serve  them  in  their  gravy,  if  clear.  Or,  poach  the  eggs  in 
water,  and  serve  with  rich  gravy  poured  round  them. 

HAM  AND  EGGS — Prepare  thin  slices  of  fried  or  broiled  ham, 
and  serve  a  poached  egg  on  each  one. 

EGGS  ON  RICE — Butter  a  baking  dish  and  fill  it  |  full  of  cold 
rice  which  was  seasoned  with  salt  and  butter  when  boiled;  make  as 
many  depressions  in  the  rice  as  there  are  persons  to  be  served,  break 
an  egg  into  each  depression,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  strew  with  bits 
of  butter.     Bake  until  the  eggs  are  set.     Serve  hot. 

SPANISH  EGGS. — Serve  poached  eggs  on  highly  seasoned,  hot, 
boiled  rice. 

ANCHOVIED  EGGS. — Prepare  slices  of  toast,  spread  them  with 
butter  and  anchovy  paste,  and  put  a  poached  egg  on  each  slice.  Sar- 
dine paste  may  be  used  instead  of  the  anchovy,  if  preferred. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. — For  every  egg  allow  an  even  tablespoon 
of  melted  butter  and  a  tablespoon  of  sweet  milk.  When  the  butter 
and  milk  is  hot,  put  in  the  eggs  without  beating,  and  stir.  When  it 
begins  to  cook,  scrape  fast  from  the  bottom  of  the  frying=pan  to  keep 
from  scorching.  Take  off  while  very  soft,  as  they  cook  a  half  minute 
after  being  taken  off,  for  which  many  cooks  do  not  allow.  Serve  by 
itself  hot,  or  on  toast.  A  dash  of  lemon  juice  added  just  as  they  are 
going  to  the  table  is  an  improvement. 

Scrambled  Eggs  No.  2. — Beat  the  eggs,  and  allow  1  tablespoon  of 
milk  for  each  egg;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  in  a  buttered 
frying=pan,  and  while  cooking,  stir  from  the  bottom.  A  few  spoons 
of  boiled  string^beans,  or  boiled  peas,  or  tender  ends  of  aspara- 
gus left  over  from  dinner,  can  be  stirred  in;  these  are  nice,  furnish 
variety,  and  use  up  remnants.     Try  and  devise  new  dishes. 

SCALLOPED  EGGS. — Moisten  bread  crumbs  with  cream;  place 
a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  dish;  slice  hard-boiled  eggs,  and 
put  in  a  layer  of  them,  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  with  chopped 
cold  meat;  continue  alternately  until  the  dish  is  full;  sift  grated 
crumbs  over  the  top,  and  put  bits  of  butter  on  it;  set  it  in  the  oven 
and  bake  10  minutes. 

SHIRRED  EGGS. — Take  6  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of  gravy — from 
poultry  is  best — enough  fried  toast  to  cover  bottom  of  a  flat  dish,  a 
very  little  grated  cheese,  1  teaspoon  butter.  Melt  the  butter  in  a 
^^-ying-pan;  when  hot,  break  into  this  the  eggs.     Stir  in  gravy,  and 


EGGS  191 

season;  stir  quickly  and  well  up  from  the  bottom,  until  the  whole  is 
a  soft  yellow  mass.  Have  ready  in  a  flat  dish  the  fried  toast.  Heap 
the  shirred  eggs  upon  this,  and  serve  before  it  hardens. 

SCOTCH  EQQS — With  1  cup  of  cooked  ham,  chopped  fine,  mix 
^  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs  made  into  a  paste  with  ^  a  cui3  of  milk,  ^  a 
teaspoon  of  prepared  mustard,  a  little  salt,  and  1  egg,  well  beaten ; 
hard=boil  6  eggs,  remove  the  shells,  and  cover  them  with  the  prepared 
mixture,  and  fry  about  2  minutes  in  very  hot  fat;  serve  either  hot  or 
cold.  Chicken,  veal  or  salmon  may  be  substituted  for  the  ham,  but 
lemon  juice  should  be  added  to  the  seasoning  if  salmon  is  used. 

SNOWED  EQQS — Beat  the  whites  of  6  eggs  till  stiff;  have  on 
the  stove  2  cups  of  milk  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla;  when  it 
boils  drop  the  beaten  eggs  into  it  by  tablespoons,  and  as  soon  as 
they  set  dip  them  out.  Let  the  milk  cool  a  little,  then  slowly  stir  in 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  when  thick  pour  it  around  the  snowed 
eggs  and  serve. 

STEAMED  EQQS. — Break  each  egg  into  an  egg=cup,  set  them 
in  a  steamer  and  steam  until  cooked.  They  can  be  put  in  buttered 
patty=pans,  if  more  convenient,  and  then  steamed.     Serve  hot. 

STUFFED  EQQS.— Cut  hard-boiled  eggs  in  two,  take  out  the 
yolk,  and  mix  it  with  fried  onions,  a  little  finely  chopped  ham,  and 
parsley,  pepper  and  salt;  fill  the  whites  with  this  mixture,  and  fry 
until  the  yellow  browns  a  little. 

EQQ  TOAST. — Take  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  2  of  cream,  and 
warm  together  in  a  frying=pan.  Break  6  eggs  in  it  and  stir  lightly 
until  cooked;  have  it  well  seasoned;  have  buttered  slices  of  toast, 
spread  the  mixture  on  it,  and  serve  hot. 


MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE. 

MILK. 

ILK  is  the  only  food  which,  taken  alone,  will  support  life  in 
all  its  stages.  It  is  the  only  perfect  food  for  children, 
and  in  old  age  it  is  one  of  the  most  valuable  foods  known. 
The  fat  rises  in  the  form  of  cream;  curd  is  the  nitrogenous 
matter,  and  the  whey  contains  sugar  of  milk,  or  lactose,  with  the  salt 
or  mineral  matter.  Milk  differs  as  procured  from  different  animals, 
but  its  general  characteristics  are  the  same  in  all,  and  that  of  the  cow 
is  most  generally  used.  Unless  the  milk  is  of  the  best  quality,  all 
the  preparations  made  from  it  will  be  of  an  inferior  character. 

Milk  when  taken  into  the  stomach  is  coagulated  by  the  acids  in  the  gastric 
fluids,  and  the  coagulum  (curd)  is  digested  like  any  other  solid.  The  watery  parts 
are  absorbed.  If  much  milk  is  drunk  rapidly  it  will  form  a  solid  mass;  if  it  is 
sipped  a  little  at  a  time  it  will  be  broken  into  small  parts,  and  will,  therefore,  be 
more  easily  digested.  A  quantity  of  acid  taken  into  the  stomach  just  before  or 
after  drinking  milk  is  apt  to  harden  the  curd,  and  so  interfere  with  its  digestion. 
Between  milk,  flour  and  blood,  there  is  great  similarity  of  composition.  The  curd 
is  the  albumenoid  part. 

From  no  other  substance,  solid  or  fluid,  can  so  great  a  number  of  distinct 
kinds  of  aliment  be  prepared  as  from  milk,  some  forming  food,  others  drink;  some 
of  them  delicious  and  deserving  the  name  of  luxuries,  all  of  them  wholesome,  and 
some  medicinal. 

Milk  when  first  drawn  from  the  cow  is  slightly  alkaline,  but  afterwards  lactic 
acid  is  formed,  so  that  it  becomes  first  neutral,  then  acid,  and  the  acidity  goes  on 
increasing  until  it  is  perceptible  to  the  taste;  this  acidity  is  thought  to  assist  in 
the  rising  of  the  cream.  In  milk  we  have  the  tissue=making  elements  in  its  casein, 
and  the  heat=making  in  its  butter;  the  curd  or  casein  is  changed  to  albumen 
again  in  the   process  of   digestion. 

The  souring  of  milk  is  caused  by  the  bacteria  which  alight  on  the  milk  and 
cause  a  fermentation  which  acts  on  the  lactose  (sugar  of  milk)  and  forms  lactic 
acid,  which  causes  the  sourness.  When  enough  acid  is  formed  it  will  unite  with  the 
soda  in  the  casein,  making  lactate  of  soda.  The  casein,  when  thus  deprived  of  its 
soda,  is  insoluble  in  water,  and  it  shrinks  into  a  curdy  mass.  The  introduction 
of  an  acid  will  hasten  the  process,  as  is  done  in  making  cheese. 

Solidified  milk  is  made  by  sweetening  fresh  cow's  milk,  and  evap- 
orating it  to  dryness  in  a  water  bath;  when  re=dissolved  in  water,  it  is 
said  to  have  all  the  qualities  of  fresh  milk.  This  preparation  of  milk 
is  sometimes  called  lactoline. 

Sugar  of  milk  is  the  dry,  white,  nearly  tasteless  powder  used  by 
physicians  in  preparing  medicine  in  powders.  It  does  not  gather 
dampness  like  cane  sugar,  and  will  keep  in  good  condition  for  years. 
It  is  sometimes  given  to  children  by  itself,  as  a  remedy  in  certain 
conditions  of  the  system.     It  is  made  from  evaporated  whey. 

Canned  or  Condensed  Milk. — This  is  now  to  be  obtained  in  all 
parts  of  the  civilized  world,  and  is  invaluable,  as,  being  evaporate i 

192 


MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE  193 

by  steam  and  hermetically  sealed,  it  will  keep  for  an  indefinite  time, 
while  sealed,  and  after  the  can  is  opened,  if  care  is  taken,  it  will  keep 
good  for  a  week.  The  directions  for  reducing  it  are  on  the  can. 
There  is  cane  sugar  added  to  it  before  condensing,  and  it  has  the 
color  and  consistency  of  thick,  opaque  honey.  It  can  be  used  clear, 
a  teaspoon  to  a  cup  of  coffee,  without  sugar,  as  it  is  already  sweet- 
ened. Diluted  to  the  right  consistency,  it  is  much  used  as  a  food  for 
infants.  When  good  milk  is  difficult  to  obtain,  condensed  milk  is  a 
great  blessing,  for,  being  sterilized  by  extreme  heat,  it  is  free  from 
dangerous  germs.  The  large  amount  of  cane  sugar  which  it  con- 
tains, and  which  is  added  to  preserve  it  and  prevent  its  thickening  in 
the  can,  renders  it  somewhat  less  suited  for  infants  than  the  natural 
milk,  however. 

Sour  Milk. — If  milk  sours  on  your  hands,  do  not  throw  it  away — 
it  can  be  used  in  various  ways,  as  in  making  corn  bread,  soda  biscuit 
and  all  kinds  of  pancakes,  while  many  cooks  prefer  it  to  sweet  milk, 
in  making  cookies,  doughnuts  and  gingerbread.  Sour  milk  can  be 
substituted  for  sweet  in  making  most  kinds  of  cake,  but  remember 
in  that  case  that  only  half  as  much  cream  of  tartar  should  be  used 
as  the  recipe  calls  for. 

Buttermilk  also  has  many  uses  besides  being  used  as  a  drink  (to 
drink,  it  should  be  fresh)  as  it  can  be  made  into  soup,  or  used  in 
making  corn  bread,  pancakes,  soda  biscuit,  and  many  kinds  of  cake. 

BUTTER. 

Butter  is  the  solidified  oil  or  fatty  matter  of  the  milk  of  animals. 
The  Greeks  and  Romans  neither  employed  it  in  cooking,  nor  had  it 
brought  ux3on  their  tables;  they  used  it  only  as  an  ointment  in  their 
baths.  The  Hebrews  appear  to  have  used  it  as  food  from  an  ancient 
date,  and  in  England  it  has  been  used  from  very  early  times.  In 
making  butter  the  utmost  care  is  required  in  all  the  manipulations 
from  the  time  it  leaves  the  cow  until  it  is  packed.  The  peculiar 
flavor  of  butter  is  derived  principally  from  the  butyric  acid  it  con- 
tains. In  the  milk,  the  globules  of  fat  are  held  in  solution  by  the 
albumenoid  (or  proteid)  matters,  forming  what  is  termed  an  emul- 
sion. The  albumenoid  matter  must  be  separated  from  the  butter 
before  or  during  the  process  of  churning,  or  the  butter  will  not  keep 
well. 

TO  MAKE   BUTTER  QUICKLY.— Immediately  after  the  cow  is 

milked,  strain  into  clean  pans  and  sot  over  a  moderate  fire  until  it  is 

scalding  hot;  do  not  let  it  boil;  then  set  it  aside,  and  when  cold,  skim 

off  the  cream,  and  the  milk  will  still  bo  fit  for  any  ordinary    use. 

13 


194  MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE 

When  you  have  enough  cream,  put  it  into  a  clean  earthen  basin,  beat 
it  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  the  butter  is  made,  which  will  not  be 
long;  then  take  it  out  of  the  milk  and  work  it  in  a  little  cold  water 
until  it  is  free  from  milk,  then  drain  off  the  water,  put  in  a  small 
tablespoon  of  fine  salt  to  each  lb.  of  butter  and  work  it  in.  A  small 
teaspoon  of  fine  white  sugar  worked  in  with  the  salt  will  be  found  an 
improvement;  sugar  is  a  great  preservative.  Make  the  butter  in  a 
roll,  cover  with  a  piece  of  muslin  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

An  easy  method  of  washing  butter  is  to  remove  the  butter  from  the 
churn,  pour  off  the  milk  or  buttermilk,  as  the  case  may  be,  half  fill 
the  churn  with  cold  water  (a  little  salt  may  be  added  to  the  water), 
replace  plunger  and  throw  back  the  butter,  and  operate  the  churn  as 
before  for  1  minute.  This  process  will  extract  all  the  milk  from  the 
butter,  which  may  then  be  placed  in  a  sieve  to  allow  the  water  to 
strain  from  it,  and  then  worked  in  the  usual  manner. 

BUTTER,  TO  SALT  (JrM  i?ecif>e).— To  1  lb.  of  common  salt 
add  1  lb.  of  saltpetre  and  |  lb.  of  white  sugar;  pound  all  these 
together  and  mix  them  well,  and  to  every  pound  of  butter  allow  1 
ounce  of  this  mixture;  make  it  fresh  as  you  want  it,  observing  to  be 
careful  always  to  keep  the  same  proportions,  and  to  mix  the  ingre- 
dients thoroughly.  The  butter  should  stand  a  month  before  you  use 
it,  to  ripen. 

Butter  to  Salt,  No.  2 — One  pound  of  best  salt,  4  oz.  of  sugar  and  1 
oz.  of  saltpetre;  pulverize  it  well  together,  and  allow  of  this,  1  oz. 
to  the  pound  of  butter. 

CLARIFIED  BUTTER,  OR  GHEE,  as  it  is  called  by  the  Arabs, 
is  prepared  as  follows:  Put  butter  in  a  farina  boiler  or  porcelain 
bowl,  put  it  on  the  stove  and  bring  to  a  boil;  when  cheesy,  thick, 
white  grains  form,  move  it  to  the  back  of  the  range;  the  buttermilk 
which  rises  to  the  top  should  be  skimmed  off;  after  it  has  settled, 
strain  it,  and  the  clear,  oily  fluid  remaining  can  be  bottled  for  use 
It  can  be  kept  for  years,  and  for  frying  oysters,  fritters,  etc.,  there  it, 
nothing  better  known. 

SUBSTITUTES  FOR  BUTTER — Butterine — In  preparing  this, 
lard  is  heated  to  a  temperature  not  exceeding  120°,  and  the  oil  is  sep- 
arated; a  similar  oil  is  obtained  from  beef  fat,  the  2  are  mixed,  and 
they  are  then  churned  with  milk,  making  the  butterine  of  commerce. 

Oleomargarine.* — In  preparing  this,   beef  fat  is  washed,  ground, 


*It  was  during  the  Francc-=German  war  of  1870-71  that  a  French  chemist  Mege* 
Mourier  acting  under  instructions  from  Napoleon  III,  went  into  his  laboratory  and 


MILK,  BUTTEK  AND  CHEESE  196 

and  heated  to  120°  to  200°  to  separate  the  oil,  which  is  known  as 
"butter  oil."  This  is  cooled,  salted,  put  into  milk,  a  little  annatto 
added  to  give  it  color,  and  it  is  then  churned  and  worked  like  butter. 
In  preparing  butterine  and  oleomargarine  only  the  best  fats  can  be 
used,  for  there  is  no  way  now  known  to  remove  the  unpleasant  odor 
of  fat  if  it  is  at  all  foul.  These  preparations  are  about  as  nutritious 
as  true  butter,  and  if  properly  used  they  are  a  most  valuable  addition 
to  the  food  of  the  poorer  people,  who  commonly  suffer  from  a  want 
of  fatty  food.  Strict  laws  have  been  passed  in  some  of  the  states 
against  their  sale  except  under  their  true  name,  and  this  is  very  de- 
sirable. It  is  a  fraud  to  sell  them  for  pure  butter,  but  if  well  made, 
and  sold  for  what  they  really  are,  they  merit  an  extensive  sale.  They 
are  certainly  preferable  to  the  poorer  grades  of  butter,  often  partly 
rancid,  which  are  frequently  sold  in  the  large  cities.  The  objection 
to  their  use  rests  rather  on  sentiment  and  prejudice  than  on  any  phy- 
siological basis.  They  are  to  be  considered  rather  as  substitutes  for, 
than  imitations  of  butter. 

Other  substitutes  for  butter  are  the  vegetable  oils;  olive  oil  is  best,. if 
pure,  but  it  is  often  adulterated  with  inferior  oils.  Peanut  oil  is  ex- 
cellent, and  cotton=seed  oil  of  late  has  taken  an  important  place  in 
cookery;  it  is  inexpensive,  and  a  less  quantity  is  required  than  of 
butter  in  cooking.  A  preparation  of  cotton-seed  oil  and  beef  suet 
has  been  widely  advertised,  and  is  much  used  instead  of  butter  and 
lard.  Sesamum  or  Benne  oil  should  be  better  known;  it  is  easily 
raised  in  the  southern  states.  It  is  a  bland  and  oderless  oil,  and  a 
most  excellent  substitute  for  olive  oil  in  salads.  It  keeps  for  a  long 
time  without  becoming  rancid,  if  stored  in  a  dark  place.  Poppy=^seed 
oil  is  also  being  used  now  somewhat.  We  believe  the  day  is  near  at 
hand  when  some  of  the  vegetable  oils  will  largely  supplant  lard  and 
other  animal  fats  in  nearly  all  cooking  operations. 

Some  people  who  have  a  dread  of  "margarine,"  take  a  piece  of 
fat  pork,  melt  it  down,  and  strain  it  through  a  piece  of  coarse,  thin 
muslin;  then  set  it  aside  until  it  is  cold.  It  is  then  white  and  firm, 
and  may  be  used  like  butter  in  any  kind  of  cake.  In  pound  cake  it 
is  delicious, 

A  Word  About  Fats. — And  right  here  we  may  say  a  few  words  about 
different  fats.  There  are  three  substances  called  "stearin,"  "mar- 
garin,"  and  "  olein "  which,  without  exception,  principally  make  up 
all  the  fats  we  consume.     They  are  called  "  neutral  fats,"  and  the  fact 


inTented  the  process  of  making  a  substitute  for  butter,  designing  it  for  use  in  the 
French  army.  The  process  has  since  been  further  perfected,  and  the  making  of 
these  substitutes  has  now  become  a  great  industry. 


196  MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE 

that  they  melt  at  diflPerent  temperatures  constitutes  the  principal 
difference  between  them.  There  is  a  small  amount  of  what  are 
known  as  "  fatty  acids "  in  the  vegetable  oils,  and  in  butter  there 
is  from  5  to  8  per  cent,  of  4  of  these  fatty  acids  (butyric,  capronic, 
caprylic  and  cai^rinic)  and  from  these  butter  derives  its  pecular  fla- 
vor. Olein  melts  the  most  easily,  and  stearin  the  least  so.  The  fats 
which  melt  most  readily  are  the  most  digestible,  and  are  most  readily 
assimilated  by  the  system,  but  the  healthy  stomach  readily  disposes 
of  any  fat  used  in  the  household,  in  reasonable  quantities,  although 
it  should  be  taken  into  the  system  finely  divided  instead  of  in 
lumps.  It  will  readily  be  seen,  therefore,  that  all  the  fats  are  sub- 
stantially alike,  and  when  once  they  are  assimilated,  they  perform 
the  same  services  for  the  body.  Their  flavors,  and  the  readiness  with 
which  they  melt  in  the  mouth  and  in  the  digestive  tract,  make  some 
forms,  like  butter,  more  palatable  than  others.  Mutton  fat  would  do 
about  as  well  as  any,  but  it  is  not  swallowed  readily  because  it  con- 
tains so  much  stearin.  The  body  requires  a  certain  amount  of  fat, 
but  it  makes  very  little  difference  which  one  it  takes,  and  for  this 
reason  the  introduction  of  some  cheaper  forms  of  fat,  in  such  a  shape 
that  they  will  be  palatable,  will  be  a  great  benefit  to  the  mass  of  the 
people.  We  believe,  as  we  have  elsewhere  stated,  that  some  of  the 
vegetable  oils  will  soon  be  quite  generally  used,  and  it  is  certainly 
to  be  desired  that  they  should  be.  Wealthy  people  will  always  use 
the  best  butter,  but  the  mass  of  the  j)eople  should  understand  what 
the  cheaper  substitutes  are,  and  their  properties  and  merits,  and  cer- 
tainly there  is  no  hygienic  or  physiological  reason  why  they  should 
not  use  these  cheaper  substitutes,  and  so  make  a  material  saving 
in  the  household  expenses. 

To  keep  butter  sweet  when  it  seems  likely  to  taint,  take  some 
lime  water  and  put  the  vessel  containing  the  butter  into  it,  leaving 
it  there  until  the  sweetness  is  restored. 

Rancid  butter  may  be  sweetened  and  recovered  (1)  by  washing 
and  kneading  it  well,  first  in  new  milk,  and  afterwards  in  cold  spring 
water;  butyric  acid,  on  which  the  rancidity  depends,  being  freely  solu- 
ble in  new  milk.  (2).  Beat  the  butter  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
water,  in  which  you  put  25  to  80  drops  of  lime  chloride  to  each 
pound  of  butter.  After  mixing  it  till  all  its  iDarts  are  in  contact  with 
the  water,  it  may  be  left  in  from  1  to  2  hours;  afterwards  withdraw, 
and  repeatedly  wash  in  fresh  water.  (3).  Melt  the  butter  and  skim 
as  for  clarifying;  then  put  into  it  a  piece  of  bread  thoroughly  toasted 
all  over.  In  1  or  2  minutes  the  butter  will  lose  its  offensive  smell 
and  taste.    (4).  Thoroughly  mix  1  teaspoon  of  soda  and  1  tablespoon 


MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE  197 

of  salt  for  each,  pint  of  butter;  then  add  equal  parts  of  butter  and 
cold  water,  set  on  the  stove,  and  bring  all  to  a  boil;  then  remove,  let 
cool,  and  take  off  the  butter;  it  will  be  sweet,  and  good  for  cooking. 
(5).  A  little  saltpetre  worked  into  butter  that  has  become  sour  or 
rancid  will  render  it  sweet. — Remember  that  great  care  must  be  taken 
not  to  burn  butter  when  trying  it  out. 

A  word  about  rancid  butter. — Nobody  eats  it  on  bread,  but  it  is  sometimes  used 
in  cooking,  although  it  really  ruins  every  dish  into  which  it  enters.  It  is  injurious, 
and  many  cases  of  dyspepsia  can  be  directly  traced  to  rancid  butter.  It  should 
never  enter  into  the  composition  of  any  dish  which  appears  on  the  table.  Sweeten 
it  or  throw  it 


To  keep  butter  hard  in  hot  weather,  without  ice,  invert  a  large 
crock  of  unglazed  earthenware  over  the  dish  containing  the  butter 
(a  large,  clean  flower=pot  will  answer);  the  porousness  of  the  earth- 
enware will  keep  the  butter  hard  if  the  pot  is  wrapped  in  a  wet  cloth. 
Another  way  is,  after  one  meal  is  served,  take  a  silver-plated  butter= 
dish,  clean  and  wash  it,  then  when  cool,  place  on  it  sufficient  butter 
for  the  next  meal;  set  the  dish  in  a  shady,  airy  place  (in  a  draft  if 
possible);  wet  a  clean  towel  with  cold  water,  cover  the  dish  tightly 
with  the  towel  and  let  it  stand  until  the  next  meal;  the  evaporation  of 
the  water  will  cool  the  butter. 

CHEESE. 

When  milk  is  curdled  it  separates  into  two  portions — curd  and 
whey.  The  former  consists  of  the  butter  and  casein,  and  produces 
cheese;  the  latter  is  mainly  water,  holding  the  sugar  and  mineral 
constituents  of  the  milk  in  solution.  Any  acid  introduced  in  milk 
has  the  curious  property  of  coagulating  the  curd  or  casein.  This 
acid  is  supplied  by  the  "  rennet,"  but  in  some  countries  a  weak 
solution  of  hydrochloric  acid  is  used  instead.  In  preparing  cheese 
for  cooking,  old  cheese  should  be  grated,  and  new  and  soft  ones 
should  be  chopped. 

An  analysis  of  cheese  shows  it  to  be  one  of  the  most  nourishing  of  foods,  1 
lb.  of  average  cheese  containing  more  nutriment  than  an  equal  weight  of  ordi- 
nary meat.  Eaten  raw  it  is  not  suited  to  persons  of  weak  digestion  or  of  sed- 
entary habits,  and  it  tends  to  produce  costiveness.  If  it  could  be  properly  cooked 
it  ought  to  be  one  of  the  most  desirable  of  foods.  It  is  frequently  over=cooked, 
converting  it  into  an  air=tight,  leathery  substance,  which  is  harder  to  digest  than 
the  raw  cheese.  When  lightly  cooked  it  is  easily  assimilated,  and  very  nourishing. 
In  fact  it  is  too  nourishing  to  be  eaten  heartily  as  an  accompaniment  to  meat;  it  is 
more  adapted  for  the  main  course  of  the  meal.  It  is  most  deficient  in  the  salts  of 
potash,  which,  on  account  of  their  great  solubility,  are  left  behind  in  the  whey. 
Eating  freely  of  fruits  or  salads  will  supply  these  salts,  but  vegetables  do  not 
answer  the  purpose,  because  in  ordinary  methods  of  cooking  them,  their  salts 
are  dissolved  out  and  wasted. 

"With  the  advance  of  scientific  knowledge  and  scientific  cookery,  the  true  value 
of  cheese  for  food  will  sometime  be  better  appreciated,  and  it  will  take  a  mucli 
more  important  place  among  the  foods  of  the  race  than  at  present,  we  believe,  and 


198  MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE 

it  is  certainly  entitled  to  it.  We  would  add  that  some  of  the  German  scientists 
have  recently  been  investigating  the  digestibility  of  cheese.  Dr.  Rubner  found 
that  when  taken  alone  he  could  not  consume  much  of  it,  but  when  taken  with 
milk  he  easily  assimilated  nearly  %  lb.  The  softer  kinds  are  very  largely  used 
in  Germany.    Except  in  fat,  skim  cheeses  are  as  nutritious  as  any  others. 

Rennet. — This  is  made  from  the  fourth  or  lowest  stomach  (the 
abomasus)  of  the  calf.  Soon  after  the  animal  is  slain  the  stomach 
should  be  cut  open  at  1  end,  emptied  of  the  curdled  milk,  and  turned 
inside  out;  then  with  a  damp  cloth  dipped  in  dry  salt,  carefully 
wipe  the  inside  of  the  bag  until  it  is  free  from  any  particles  of 
curdled  milk;  do  not  wash  it,  as  that  extracts  the  gastric  juice. 
Rub  fine  salt  thoroughly  into  both  the  inside  and  outside  of  the  bag, 
place  it  in  a  bowl,  and  cover  it  to  keep  out  the  flies.  The  next  day 
there  will  be  a  brine  formed  with  the  salt;  turn  the  rennet=skin  in 
the  bowl,  and  let  it  stand  another  day  to  pickle.  Take  a  long,  slen- 
der, green,  wooden  stick,  make  it  into  bow  shape,  and  stretch  the  ren- 
net bag  on  the  stick  and  hang  it  up  to  dry.  When  thoroughly  dry, 
do  it  up  in  paper  so  that  no  insects  can  get  into  it,  and  keep  it  in  a 
dry  place. 

To  Prepare  Rennet — When  wanted  for  use,  the  dried  rennet  is  cut 
in  pieces  about  an  inch  square,  and  if  to  be  used  for  invalids'  curds 
it  is  put  in  a  bottle  with  wine;  a  piece  half  the  size  of  the  hand  is 
enough  for  a  pint  of  wine;  it  must  be  kept  well  corked.  It  is  bet- 
ter to  have  the  druggist  prepare  the  wine  after  his  formula.  A  tea- 
spoon is  enough  to  "  set "  a  quart  of  sweetened  milk.  Set  the  milk 
on  some  solid  foundation,  as  it  then  coagulates  with  much  less  ren- 
net than  when  it  is  jarred  by  people  walking  near  it.  For  dairy 
purposes  the  rennet  is  steeped  in  a  weak  brine,  but  that  way  of  pre- 
paring it  is  not  the  best  for  invalid  cookery. 

The  Usual  Mode  of  Serving  Cheese,  is  to  cut  the  desired  quantity  into 
neat,  square  pieces,  and  put  them  in  a  glass  cheese=dish,  in  which 
it  is  handed  around  the  table.  If  the  cheese  is  too  crumbly  to  serve 
in  this  manner,  the  host  or  hostess  can  have  the  large  piece  of 
cheese  placed  on  the  table,  with  a  cheese^scoop  to  serve  it  with,  or 
a  heavy  silver  spoon.  The  cheese  must  be  nicely  scraped  before 
serving  in  the  latter  way.  When  there  is  a  cheese  course  at  dinner, 
several  kinds  of  cheese  are  placed  on  the  table  at  once,  cream  cheese, 
Parmesan,  Stilton,  etc.,  etc.,  and  rusks,  crackers,  or  fancy  biscuits, 
fanciful  pats  of  butter,  lettuce,  cucumbers  or  cresses,  are  served  with 
the  cheese. 

Parmesan  cheese  is,  perhaps,  the  most  celebrated  of  the  foreign  varieties.  It  is 
made  of  skimmed  milk,  and  owes  its  rich  flavor  to  the  fine,  sweet  herbage  of  Lom- 
l)ardy  about  Farma  and  Favia,  in  Italy,  where  the  cows  are  pastured.  It  is  distin- 
guished by  its  power  of  keeping,  and  after  being  kept  some  time  it  becomes  hard 
and  needs  to  be  grated  before  it  can  be  used. 


MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE  199 

BOILED  CHEESE.— Take  2  thick  slices  of  cheese,  1  teaspoon  of 
butter,  ^  teacux)  of  milk,  a  little  sugar  and  mustard,  1  egg,  pe^jper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Put  all  the  ingredients,  except  the  egg,  into  a  clean 
pan,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  they  boil  and  become  quite  smooth; 
then  beat  the  egg  well,  and  stir  it  in  over  the  fire  for  a  minute,  after 
which  pour  out  on  a  dish  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

CREAM  CHEESE. — Dip  a  cheese  cloth  in  salted  water,  and  put 
it  in  a  square  dish  or  baking  tin,  having  first  laid  a  folded  napkin 
in  the  dish;  on  the  cheese=cloth  put  the  thickest  cream  you  have 
— it  must  be  perfectly  sweet  (Devonshire  cream  is  the  best);  pour 
the  cream  in,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  on  each 
layer;  fold  over  the  cloth  and  let  it  lie  until  the  next  day;  then 
turn  it  into  a  dry  cloth,  put  a  dry,  folded  cloth  under  it,  put  a  lixtle 
square  platter  on  it,  and  set  a  flat=iron  on  the  platter;  change  the  dry 
cloth  once  more,  and  on  the  third  day  it  is  ready  to  eat.  If  preferred, 
this  cheese  can  be  made  in  a  round  form  in  a  pudding-dish. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE — Put  a  pan  of  sour  or  loppered  milk  on 
the  stove  or  range  where  it  is  not  too  hot;  let  it  scald  until  the 
whey  rises  to  the  top  (be  careful  not  to  let  it  boil  or  the  curd  will 
become  hard  and  tough).  Place  a  clean  cloth  or  towel  over  a  sieve, 
and  pour  this  whey  and  curd  into  it,  leaving  it  covered  to  drain  2 
or  3  hours.;  then  put  it  into  a  dish  and  chop  it  fine  with  a  spoon, 
adding  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  teaspoon  of  butter,  and  enough  sweet 
cream  to  make  the  cheese  the  consistency  of  putty.  With  your 
hands  make  it  into  little  flattened  balls.  Keep  in  a  cool  place. 
Some  like  it  made  rather  thin  with  cream,  serving  it  in  a  deep  dish. 

DEVONSHIRE  CREAM — The  milk  should  stand  24  hours  in  the 
winter,  and  half  that  time  in  warm  weather;  then  the  milk  pan  is 
set  on  the  stove,  and  should  there  remain  until  the  milk  is  quite 
hot,  but  it  must  not  boil.  When  it  is  sufficiently  done,  the  undu- 
lations on  the  surface  look  thick,  and  small  rings  appear.  .  The  time 
required  for  scalding  cream  depends  on  the  size  of  the  pan,  and  the 
heat  of  the  fire,  but  the  slower  it  is  done  the  better.  Set  it  back  in 
the  dairy  again,  after  scalding,  and  skim  the  following  day.  This 
cream  is  so  much  esteemed  that  it  is  sent  to  the  London  markets 
in  small  square  tins,  and  is  exceedingly  delicious  when  eaten  with 
fresh  fruit.  In  Devonshire,  butter  is  made  from  this  cream,  and  is 
usually  very  firm. 

CHEESE  FRITTERS.— Put  into  a  sauce=pan  1  pint  of  water,  1^ 
oz.  of  butter,  a  teaspoon  of  black  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and 


200  MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE 

bring  the  water  to  boiling  point;  then  gradually  stir  in  flour  enough 
to  make  a  thick  paste.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  incorporate  ^  lb. 
of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth, 
and  the  yolks  of  4.  Let  the  paste  stand  for  2  hours,  and  then  fry  in 
little  pieces,  dropped  into  boiling  lard.  Sprinkle  a  little  salt  over 
them  before  serving. 

FONDUE. — Beat  6  eggs  until  light;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
2  tablespoons  grated  cheese;  put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying^ 
pan;  when  hot,  pour  in  the  eggs  and  stir  until  well  done  and  smooth; 
serve  on  buttered  toast. 

THE  HOME  CHEESE  SCALLOP.— Soak  1  cup  of  dry  bread 
crumbs  in  fresh  milk;  beat  into  it  3  eggs,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  "I  lb.  of  grated  cheese;  strew  ujpon  the  top  sifted  bread  crumbs, 
and  bake  in  the  oven  a  delicate  brown. 

ITALIAN  CURDS  {Gallino  CMrcfe).— Take  a  number  of  the 
rough  coats  that  line  the  gizzards  of  turkeys  and  fowls;  clean  them 
from  their  contents,  rub  them  well  with  salt,  and  hang  them  to  dry. 
When  needed  for  use,  break  off  bits;  pour  over  them  a  little  hot 
water,  and  after  standing  over  night  it  is  ready  for  use.  It  makes  a 
more  delicate  curd  than  calf's  rennet.  Warm  2  quarts  of  milk,  and 
add  some  of  the  gallino  liquor,  and,  when  the  curd  is  well  set,  dip  it 
carefully  with  a  large  spoon  or  ladle  into  a  colander  over  which  a 
cheese=cloth  has  been  spread;  handle  it  carefully  so  as  not  to  start 
the  white  whey.  When  the  Mdiey  has  separated  from  the  curd,  so 
that  it  has  consistence,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  send  to  the  table. 

CHEESE  AND  MACARONI  {Italian  ilfocZe).— Boil  6  ounces  of 
the  best  macaroni  in  3  pints  of  boiling  water,  with  a  little  pepper  and 
salt.  Allow  it  to  simmer  gently  for  15  or  20  minutes,  then  drain  it, 
return  the  macaroni  to  the  sauce=pan  with  -|  a  pint  of  good  gravy  and 
allow  it  to  simmer  until  it  has  absorbed  all  the  liquid.  Have  ready 
grated  ^  lb.  of  cheese,  put  half  of  it  with  the  macaroni  until  it  is 
nearly  melted,  and  then  add  the  remainder  with  an  ounce  of  butter. 
Stir  it  well,  always  the  one  way,  until  cheese  and  macaroni  are  well 
mixed.  Serve  very  hot.  A  little  short  crust  bordering  the  dish  is 
an  addition. 

POLPETTI  {Italian). — Chop  cold  meat  finely,  either  roast  or 
boiled;  season  with  mushrooms  or  truffles,  and  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  nutmeg,  salt,  pepper  and  chutnee  sauce;  spread  on  a  tin  to 
cool,  after  being  well  heated  together;  cut  in  small  squares  when 
cold,  dip  in  egg,  and  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
Serve  with  plain  boiled  macaroni  and  cream. 


MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE  201 

POTTED  CHEESE — To  pot  cheese  is  an  economical  way  of 
disposing  of  any  that  has  become  dry.  Cut  the  cheese  into  small 
pieces,  and  pound  it  smoothly  in  a  mortar,  adding  a  little  nice  sweet 
butter,  just  sufficient  to  make  a  paste  suitable  for  spreading  on  bread 
for  sandwiches;  add  a  little  mixed  mustard,  and  a  trifle  of  cayenne  to 
the  paste;  pack  in  little  earthen  pots;  if  to  be  set  on  the  table  for  an 
appetizer,  cover  closely,  and  set  in  a  dry  place;  if  there  is  danger  of 
mold,  put  a  few  drops  of  extract  of  cloves  on  the  top  of  the  paste 
before  covering;  or,  if  preferred,  a  thin  layer  of  nice  salad  oil. 

SMEAR  CASE — Pour  boiling  water  on  clabbered  milk,  till  the 
curd  separates  from  the  whey;  let  it  stand  till  the  curd  settles,  then 
pour  cold  water  on  it  and  stir;  let  settle,  drain  water  off;  do  this  till 
the  water  is  clear,  then  let  it  settle,  and  sqiieeze  out  enough  curd  for 
one  meal.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sugar,  and  pour  good,  sweet 
cream  over.  You  can  keep  it  in  water  for  several  days,  by  changing 
the  water  every  day. 

CHEESE  STRAWS.— Mix  together  4  tablespoons  of  flour,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper,  and  3  oz.  of  grated  English 
cheese.  Add  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  then  enough  iced  water 
to  make  a  very  stiff  paste.  Roll  the  paste  out  on  a  board  into  a  sheet 
■J  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  the  paste  into  strips  ^  of  an  inch  wide  and 
5  inches  long,  and  bake  them  about  10  minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven. 
They  should  be  a  very  light  brown.  If  you  have  any  scraps  of  paste 
left,  roll  them  into  a  sheet,  and  cut  it  into  small  rings.  Bake  them, 
and  slip  little  bundles  of  the  straws  through  them. 

TOAST  WITH  CHEESE.— In  1  cup  of  milk  stir  1  cup  of  grated 
cheese,  and  boil  until  the  cheese  softens  in  the  milk;  then  add  2well= 
beaten  eggs;  stir  until  it  boils,  take  from  the  fire  and  spread  over 
nicely=browned  toast.  Served  very  hot.  This  will  be  found  enjoya- 
ble.    It  is  a  nice  dish  for  breakfast  or  tea. 

WELSH  RAREBIT.— Cut  slices  of  stale  bread  about  |  inch 
thick,  and  toast  them  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides  (take  time  enough 
6o  that  it  can  be  well  done  without  scorching,  and  this  rule  will 
apply  to  making  toast  at  any  time).  Have  as  many  thin  slices  of 
rich,  mild  cheese  as  there  are  of  the  toasted  bread;  dip  the  edges  of 
the  toast  in  hot  water,  and  spread  with  softened  butter;  lay  a  slice 
of  the  cheese  on  each  slice  of  toast,  and  set  the  platter  on  the  top 
shelf  of  a  hot  oven  until  the  cheese  is  melted  into  the  toast  and 
slightly  browned.  Another  way  is  to  lay  each  slice  of  toast  on  a 
blue^^edged  English  baking=^plate,  just  a  little  larger  than  the  toast; 


202  MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE 

dust  a  little  cayenne,  or  pepper,  on  the  toast  before  putting  on  the 
cheese;  place  the  little  plates  in  a  large  dripping-pan,  without  water, 
set  on  the  top  shelf  of  the  hot  oven,  and  when  done  as  above  directed, 
serve  each  person  with  the  rarebit  on  the  hot  plate.  Another  method 
is  to  melt  the  cheese  in  a  little  cup  and  pour  it  over  the  prepared 
toast.  Some  add  a  little  butter  and  milk,  stirring  it  into  the  melted 
cheese  till  smooth,  before  pouring  it  over  the  toast.  Others  add  a 
little  egg,  butter,  mustard  and  cayenne.  Do  not  make  it  until  just 
ready  to  serve  it,  as,  if  it  stands  and  becomes  cold,  it  will  be  nearly 
spoiled. 

CHEESE  CRACKERS.— Take  small,  thin  crackers,  sprinkle  on 
grated  cheese  and  set  in  the  oven  until  the  cheese  adheres  to  them. 
Serve  either  hot  or  cold.  Some  people  butter  the  crackers  lightly 
and  add  a  dash  of  cayenne  before  sprinkling  on  thp  g-^ated  cheese. 


SALADS. 


ALADS  are  preparations  of  vegetables,  fruits,  nuts,  meafe? 
and  fish,  which  are  dressed  with  oils,  acids,  salt,  pepper  and 
often  mustard.  Vegetables  when  eaten  raw  are  apt  to  fer- 
ment in  the  stomach  and  the  condiments  used,  such  as  vine- 
gar, pepper,  salt  and  mustard,  aid  in  their  digestion.  The  prejudice 
against  the  use  of  oil  which  is  entertained  by  many  people  is  proba- 
bly exaggerated,  as  it  is  a  nutritious  food  and  aids  digestion,  but 
medical  authorities  differ  about  its  value. 

The  vegetables  used  in  salads  should  be  very  carefully  cleaned, 
using  ice-cold  water  to  wash  them  in,  and  they  should  be  after- 
wards carefully  dried  in  a  towel.  Do  not  break  the  leaves  if  you 
can  help  it,  as  that  will  make  them  wilt  quickly.  Putting  lettuce, 
cabbage,  celery,  etc.,  into  ice-cold  water  for  2  or  3  hours  will  make 
them  crisp.  Vegetable  salads  are  best  eaten  at  once  after  they  are 
made,  but  chicken  salad  will  keep  a  number  of  days  in  cold  weather. 
As  a  knife  when  used  on  a  vegetable  salad  will  blacken  it,  and  impair 
its  crispness,  it  is  better  to  avoid  using  one;  use  a  wooden  spoon  to 
stir  a  salad,  and  stir  no  more  than  necessary. 

The  freshest  olive  salad  oil  is  the  best  to  use.  Cotton=seed  oil  is 
often  sold  as  olive  oil,  which  is  a  fraud,  but  if  sold  at  a,  fair  price  un- 
der its  true  name,  its  use  is  unobjectionable,  as  it  is  a  nutritious  vege- 
table oil.  Melted  butter  is  used  instead  of  oil  by  some  people,  who 
say  they  like  it  better.  While  melted  butter  may  do  for  family  use, 
oil  is  the  only  thing  for  "  state  occasions."  Arrange  a  salad  on  a  plat- 
ter or  in  an  earthen  salad  bowl;  never  put  it  in  glass,  as  it  looks 
disagreeably  smeary  when  you  begin  to  dish  it  out. 

As  lettuce  is  necessary  to  so  many  salads,  a  word  may  be  said 
about  the  proper  way  to  prepare  it.  It  is  quite  apt  to  be  infested 
with  insects  which  penetrate  even  to  the  inner  leaves,  and  therefore 
each  leaf  must  be  carefully  washed  and  examined.  Let  it  stand  in 
very  cold  water  an  hour  or  longer,  shake  in  a  wire  basket  or  coarse 
towel  to  free  it  from  water,  and  put  in  the  ice-box  until  serving  time. 
An  easier  and  quicker  way  than  cutting  lettuce  for  salad  is  to  lay  6 
or  8  leaves  together  in  the  hand  and  twist  and  tear  them  apart;  it  is 
better  to  tear  than  to  cut  it. 

There  is  a  common  idea  that  salads  are  difficult  to  make  and  are 
principally  adapted  for  the  wealthy,  or  for  special  occasions.      This 


204  SALADS 

is  a  mistake,  as  they  can  be  made  from  "  left^oVer  "  vegetables,  and 
so  are  economical,  and  they  are  easily  prepared  when  one  knows  how. 
The  common  people  among  the  French  use  them  almost  daily,  and 
to  advantage. 

The  vegetables  used  should  be  drained  or  dried  thoroughly  from 
the  water,  or  the  dressing  when  applied  will  be  watery,  and  spoil  the 
salad.  Do  not  prepare  plain  salads  until  wanted  at  the  table;  if 
prepared  long  beforehand,  the  lettuce  withers,  and  the  dressing 
becomes  watery. 

There  is  an  admirable  Spanish  proverb  about  dressing  salads. 
It  says  it  requires  4  persons  to  mix  a  salad;  a  spendthrift  to  throw 
in  the  oil,  a  miser  to  drop  in  the  vinegar,  a  lawyer  to  add  the  sea- 
soning, and  a  madman  to  stir  it  together. 

To  Fringe  Celery. — A  simple  and  convenient  way  to  fringe  celery 
stalks,  is  to  take  a  cork,  put  many  large  needles  in  the  end,  and  then 
cut  the  celery  into  pieces  about  2  inches  long,  and  draw  about  half 
of  each  strip  through  the  needles  a  few  times.  When  well  shred- 
ded, put  away  to  become  crisp  in  a  cold  place.  Thus  prepared  it 
makes  a  good  garnish  for  salads,  meats,  etc. 

To  Marinate  a  salad,  is  to  let  it  stand  for  a  time  to  season, 
sprinkled  with  a  French  dressing. 

Although  salads  usually  contain  no  flesh  forming  or  heat  giving  material,  they 
are  valuable  because  they  introduce  into  the  system  large  quantities  of  saline  mat- 
ter, which  by  the  common  method  of  cooking  is  generally  removed  from  vegetables. 
For  this  reason  they  are  of  much  valuo  to  the  poorer  inhabitants  of  our  towns  and 
cities.  They  should-bc  cleaned  very  carefully  so  that  no  parasitic  animals  remain  in 
them.  The  vegetables  are  best  used  when  freshly  cut,  although  some  of  their  fresh- 
ness may  be  regained  if  the  litalks  are  freshly  cut  and  placed  underwater.  The  salad 
dressing  should  not  be  added  until  the  last  moment.  The  French  and  Italians  seem 
to  best  appreciate  the  value  of  salads, 

SALAD  DKESSINGS. 
FRENCH  SALAD  DRESSING.— Mix  1  saltspoon  salt  and  ^ 
saltspoon  pepper;  then  mix  in  3  tablesiDoons  salad  oil  slowly,  and 
1  tablespoon  vinegar,  and  pour  it  over  the  salad.  If  liked,  ^  tea- 
spoon of  onion  juice  can  be  added;  some  people  also  add  1  teaspoon 
of  made  mustard.  Lemon  juice  or  tarragon  vinegar  can  be  used 
instead  of  the  vinegar  if  preferred.  For  a  French  dressing  the 
standard  proportion  is  to  use  3  times  as  much  oil  as  vinegar,  but 
some  people  use  as  high  as  6  times  as  much  oil  as  vinegar,  and  others 
as  low  as  ^  as  much.     Tastes  difiPer,  and  these  rules  are  all  variable. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING.— Break  the  yolks  of  2  raw  eggs  in 
a  soup  plate,  beat  smooth  with  a  silver  fork,  and  add  oil,  a  few 
drops  at  a  time,  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  when  it  can  be  added  'n 


SALADS  205 

larger  quantities;  but  the  stirring  must  be  kept  up  constantly,  and 
with  a  rapid  motion.  When  it  grows  thick,  add  a  few  drops  of  vin- 
egar, beat  smooth  again,  and  then  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  level 
saltspoon  of  mustard,  and  a  dust  of  cayenne.  The  vinegar  should 
be  added  a  little  at  a  time  until  2  tablespoons  have  been  used.  The 
amount  of  oil  de^Dends  on  the  quantity  of  dressing  required,  but  a 
scant  cupful  will  be  an  abundance  for  an  ordinary  salad.  Should 
the  mayonnaise  curdle,  or  crack,  as  it  is  called,  take  another  egg, 
add  oil  in  small  quantities  until  it  thickens,  and  then  stir  in  the 
curdled  mixture,  which  will  soon  grow  smooth  and  velvety  in  appear- 
ance. Take  special  pains  in  hot  weather  to  have  both  ingredients 
and  utensils  ice  cold. 

To  color  mayonnaise,  lobster  coral  will  produce  a  bright  red, 
and  spinach  green  or  chopped  parsley  will  color  it  green. 

BOILED  DRESSING.— Take  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
of  mustard,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  oil  or  butter;  stir 
together  until  smooth,  and  then  add  3  eggs  and  beat  well;  add  1  cup 
vinegar  and  1  cup  milk  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  to  a  smooth 
paste,  stirring  constantly.     It  will  keep  2  weeks  in  a  cool  place. 

BOILED  DRESSING  No.  2.— Beat  3  eggs  well;  add  |  cup  but- 
ter, 1  cup  vinegar,  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon mustard,  |  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper;  boil  until  thick. 

CREAM  DRESSING — Rub  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs  fine 
with  a  spoon,  stir  in  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  ^  teacup  of  thick 
sweet  cream,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  a  dust  of  cayenne,  and  vinegar 
enough  to  reduce  all  to  a  smooth,  creamy  state.  Add  a  little  mustard 
also,  if  liked,  and  pour  it  upon  salad  when  ready  for  serving. 

EGG  DRESSING — Eub  to  a  paste  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled 
eggs.  Add  1  teaspoon  each  of  mustard,  salt  and  sugar,  with  -|  tea- 
spoon of  pepper,  drop  in  about  2  tablespoons  of  salad  oil  or  sweet 
cream,  and  add  4  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice.  This  is  a  nice  dressing 
for  canned  salmon  also. 

SALAD  DRESSING  WITHOUT  OIL — Rub  till  smooth  the 
yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  add  1  teasx^oon  powdered  sugar,  ^  tea- 
spoon white  pepi^er,  1  teaspoon  of  mixed  mustard,  ^  saltspoon  of  salt 
and  a  pinch  of  cayenne;  mix  thoroughly  and  add  equal  amounts  of 
cream  and  vinegar  until  the  mixture  has  the  desired  consistency. 
Rubbing  the  rind  of  a  fresh  lemon  on  a  piece  of  loaf  sugar,  and  dis- 
solving this  in  the  vinegar  before  using  it  will  be  an  improvement. 
Those  who  cannot  eat  salads  containing  oil  can  try  this  dressing. 


206  SALADS 

SWISS  DRESSING.— Put  2  ounces  of  cheese  in  a  mortar,  pound 
it    well,    add    1    tablespoon    vinegar,    a  small  quantity  of  salt  and 
pepper,  and  very  gradually  dilute  it  with  salad  oil. 
VEGETABLE  SALADS. 

BOILED  SALAD. — Boil  celery  and  beans  separately  until  ten- 
der,  cut  the  celery  into  pieces  about  2  inches  long,  put  both  into  a 
salad  dish  and  cover  with  one  of  the  salad  dressings  previously  given. 
Some  people  find  salads  indigestible  when  made  with  raw  vegetables, 
and  the  cooked  salads  are  more  wholesome  if  less  agreeable  to  the 
taste.  A  little  boiled  onion,  boiled  cauliflower,  chopped  lettuce, 
blanched  endive  or  tarragon  can  be  added  if  desired;  also  slices  of 
cold  meat,  poultry  or  fish. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD. — Take  boiled  asparagus  and  dip  it  while 
warm  into  melted  butter  with  which  is  mixed  a  little  mustard  and 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  The  extreme  ends  need  not  be  coated.  Ar- 
range with  the  heads  toward  the  center.  It  is  better  if  iced  before 
serving.  Or  (2)  cut  the  tender  parts  of  boiled  asparagus  into  short 
lengths,  and  cover  it  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing, 

BEET  SALAD — Cut  cold  boiled  beets  into  pieces,  and  cover 
with  any  salad  dressing.  Celery  or  other  vegetable  may  be  added  if 
desired. 

STRING  BEAN  SALAD — String  young,  green  string  beans, 
and  cook  till  tender  in  salted  water;  then  drain,  cover  with  cold 
water,  let  stand  till  cold,  drain  and  dry.  Serve  with  or  without  let- 
tuce, and  use  a  French  dressing.     Add  a  little  onion  juice,  if  liked. 

CABBAGE  SALAD. — Chop  a  cabbage,  and  add  a  French,  may- 
onnaise, or  boiled  dressing. 

CARROT  SALAD — Into  a  salad  bowl  put  1  cup  chopped  celery, 
I  cup  boiled  sliced  carrot  and  2  cups  chopped  cold  veal ;  add  a  little 
finely  chopped  raw  onion,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  very  little 
melted  butter,  pour  over  ^  cup  good  vinegar  and  mix  well. 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD.— Boil  the  cauliflower,  cut  in  pieces, 
and  cover  with  a  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing.  A  little  parsley, 
boiled  beets,  carrots  or  tomatoes  can  be  added  if  desired,  and  also 
cold  tongue  or  other  meat. 

COLD  SLAW. — Take  |  cup  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  "I  teaspoon  mixed  mustard,  butter  size  of  small  egg;  mix, 
stir  until  it  boils,  and  when  cold  pour  it  over  chopped  or  shaved  cab- 
bage. Very  nice.  (The  term  "  cold  slaw  "  is  derived  from  the  Dutch 
Kohlslaiv,  meaning  simply  cabbage  salad.) 


SALADS  207 

Cream  Dressing  for  Cold  Slaw. — Take  2  tablespoons  whipped 
sweet  cream,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  4  tablespoons  vinegar.  Beat  well, 
and  pour  over  cabbage  previously  cut  very  fine,  and  seasoned  with 
salt. 

CREAM  SLAW — Chop  a  head  of  cabbage  fine  and  sprinkle  on 
a  little  salt;  let  it  stand  while  you  make  the  cream.  Mix  well 
together,  and  cook  slowly  until  quite  smooth  and  creamy,  1  table- 
spoon flour,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  -|  teacup 
vinegar,  ^  teacup  sweet  milk  or  cream;  when  done,  pour  over  the 
cabbage.  After  you  put  it  in  the  dish,  sprinkle  with  pepper.  Excel- 
lent.    If  kept  in  a  cool  place  will  be  nice  for  1  or  2  days. 

HOT  SLAW. — Chop  a  head  of  cabbage  and  put  into  the  kettle, 
with  a  tablespoon  of  lard  (or  meat  fryings)  in  the  bottom,  with 
enough  hot  water  to  keep  it  from  boiling  dry;  add  a  little  salt  and 
pepper.  When  the  cabbage  is  boiled  tender,  beat  1  egg  in  a  teacup , 
^  full  of  vinegar,  and  then  fill  the  cup  with  cream  (sour  cream  will 
do  as  well  as  sweet);  pour  it  over  the  hot  cabbage,  let  stand  5  min- 
utes, and  serve.     Will  cook  in  1  hour. 

CELERY  SALAD. — Wash  and  wipe  ^  dozen  heads  of  celery. 
Cut  with  shears  in  a  salad  bowl.  Mix  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  teaspoon 
of  mustard,  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons  with  2 
tablespoons  of  water.  Stir  well  together,  drop  over  it  3  ounces  of 
salad  oil,  then  add  a  spoon  of  hot  water,  and  pour  over  the  celery. 

Endive  is  used  also  for  salads  like  celery.  Endive  is  a  native  of  China  and 
Japan.  It  resembles  eea*kale  in  flavor,  being  rather  bitter,  and  it  is  used  for  salads 
and  soups.     It  is  not  so  tender  as  lettuce,  but  it  makes  an  excellent  winter  salad. 

EsoABOLE  and  Monk's«Beabd  {Barbe  de  Cai^ucin)  belong  to  the  same  family  as 
the  endive.  They  can  be  made  into  salads  alone,  or  mixed  with  sorrel,  lettuce,  etc. 
They  make  good  winter  salads,  and  also  excellent  salads  to  serve  with  game.  The 
method  is  simply  to  cut  them  small,  and,  using  1  alone,  or  2  or  3  different  vegeta- 
bles mixed,  to  cover  them  with  a  good  salad  dressing. 

CHICORY  OR  SUCCORY  SALAD.— Take  a 
bunch  of  chicory  cut  small,  add  1  boiled  egg  and 
1  onion  cut  fine,  and  pour  over  a  good  salad  dress- 
ing. 

Chiooey  or  SuoooET  belongs  to  the  order  compositce, 
and  the  leaves  are  blanched  and  used  for  salads,  while  the 
root  is  used  to  adulterate  coffee.  ohicoby. 

CREAMY  SALAD.— Whip  thick  cream  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  to 
it  some  of  the  boiled  salad  dressing  given  among  our  dressings;  have 
the  salad  dressing  cold;  use  2  or  3  times  as  much  of  the  whipped 
cream  as  of  the  salad  dressing.  Have  ready  cold  boiled  potatoes 
cut  into  small  dice,  pour  over  the  mixture  and  stir  it  together.  It 
IS  more  light  and  creamy  than  other  salads. 


208  SALADS 

CUCUMBER  SALAD.— (1)  Peel  and  slice  fresh  cucumbers, 
and  let  them  stand  in  a  bowl  of  water  2  hours,  changing  the  water 
twice.  When  it  is  time  to  serve  dinner,  drain  and  chop  the  cucum- 
bers coarsely  with  a  knife,  and  add  1  or  2  new  onions,  cut  finely. 
Put  in  a  salad  dish,  and  send  to  the  table  without  dressing.  Serve 
in  small  salad=plates  and  send  it  around  the  table  with  salad  oil,  vin- 
egar, salt  and  pepper.  (2)  Mix  sliced  cucumbers  and  new  onions, 
sliced,  and  cover  with  a  French  dressing. 

DANDELION  SALAD.— Choose  that  which  is  small  and  tender, 
cut  off  the  root,  wash  carefully,  drain  and  shake  out  the  water,  put  it 
in  a  salad  bowl  and  cover  with  a  French  dressing. 
Chives  and  chervil  can  be  sprinkled  on  toj),  if  you 
have  them,  before  applying  the  dressing,  or  add  a 
little  sliced  onion  if  liked,  or  lettuce  or  other  vege- 
table. 

Cheevil. — This  is  a  plant  the  roots  of  which  are  poison- 
ous, but  the  leaves  are  tender  and  are  used  in  salads.      They       ^] 
emit  an  aromatic  flavor  and  are   often  called  myrrh  by  the 
peasantry  of  Scotland.      The  leaves  are  also  used  to  flavor 
soups. 


OHEBVIL. 


LETTUCE  SALAD. — Lettuce  makes  the  foundation  for  many 
excellent  salads.  Prepare  it  as  previously  directed,  and  serve  it  crisp 
and  cold.  It  can  be  served  (1)  alone  with  French  or  boiled  dressing; 
or  (2)  mixed  with  celery  cut  into  dice,  and  with  a  French  dressing, 
which  makes  an  excellent  salad.  It  goes  well  (3)  mixed  with  sorrel, 
with  a  French  dressing,  or  (4)  with  chives,  using  the  same  dressing 
and  garnishing  with  olives,  or  (5)  with  pepper=grass  and  water-cress- 
es mixed,  using  a  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  garnishing  with  radishes. 
A  few  nasturtium  blossoms  for  a  garnish  produce  a  brilliant  effect. 
(6)  A  bed  of  lettuce  covered  with  sliced  cucumbers,  and  a  layer  of 
sliced  tomatoes  on  top,  covered  with  a  mayonnaise  or  French  dress- 
ing, makes  a  good  salad. 

Lamb's  Lettuce  (also  called  Corii'salad  or  Fetticus)  is  a  small  annual  plant, 
often  used  for  salads.  It  comes  early  in  the  spring,  and  although  inferior  to  let- 
tuce, it  makes  a  fairly  good  substitute  for  it,  and  a  good  spring  salad. 

OKRA  SALAD. — Put  it  on  top  of  a  bed  of  potato  salad;  sprinkle 
on  mustard  and  cress  and  dress  with  oil,  tarragon  vinegar,  salt,  pep- 
per and  a  little  grated  horseradish.  Another  way  is  to  mix  sprigs  of 
cress,  endive,  young  onions  and  radishes  with  okra,  and  cover  with 
any  salad  dressing  liked. 

PEPPERS  SALAD — Take  boiled  peppers,  cut  them  into  strips, 
add  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice  and  cover  with  a  French  dressing.  It 
goes  well  with  hot  or  cold  meala. 


SALADS  209 

POTATO  SALAD.— Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  dice  and  "rwar- 
inate''''  in  a  French  dressing;  chill  thoroughly,  then  arrange  in  a 
tasteful  manner,  and  garnish  with  parsley,  chopped  pickled  beets, 
and  hard*boiled  eggs,  sliced.  For  a  quart  of  cut  potatoes,  a  teaspoon 
of  salt,  a  saltspoon  of  pepper,  3  tablespoons  of  oil,  and  3  of  vinegar, 
are  required  for  the  dressing,  and  4  hard=boiled  eggs.  This  is  a 
tasteful  dish  of  white,  yellow,  red,  and  green. 

POTATO  SALAD,  No.  2 — Chop  1  large  or  2  small  onions  very 
fine;  add  12  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  chop  also;  if  lettuce  is  to  be 
had,  chop  a  head  or  more  with  the  onion — if  not,  take  the  tender 
green  leaves  of  a  cabbage.  Pour  on  the  boiled  dressing  given  among 
our  dressings,  and  put  curled  lettuce  around  the  edges  and  slices  of 
cold  boiled  egg  on  top. 

POTATO  SALAD  WITH  EQQS— Cut  cold  potatoes  finely,  and 
mix  with  French  salad  dressing;  place  on  a  garnished  platter,  and 
coyer  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Good  for  a  luncheon  or  sup- 
per dish  in  hot  weather. 

RUSSIAN  SALAD.—  Out  up  very  small,  equal  quantities  of  any 
cold  vegetables,  adding  lettuce,  endive  and  cress,  if  you  have  them; 
add  any  cold  flaked  fish,  mix  all  well  in  a  bowl  with  mayonnaise 
sauce,  turn  out  into  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served,  and  garnish 
with  olives,  filleted  anchovies  and  lemon  jelly. 

SALAD  IN  JELLY — Fill  a  mold  with  a  lemon  or  other  gelatine 
jelly;  when  cold,  cut  out  most  of  the  center,  leaving  a  shell  of  jelly, 
fill  it  with  salad,  and  serve. 

SALSIFY  SALAD — Chop  cold  boiled  salsify,  and  pour  over  it  a 
French  or  mayonnaise  dressing.  Or  (2)  it  can  be  combined  with 
other  cold  boiled  vegetables,  such  as  cauliflower,  carrots,  beans  or 
potatoes,  and  then  the  salad  dressing  added. 

SPINACH  SALAD. — Take  cold  boiled  spinach,  mince  fine,  cover 
with  a  French  salad  dressing,  and  garnish  with  sliced  hard-boiled 
eggs.     It  goes  well  with  roast  beef,  mutton  or  game. 

SUMMER  SALAD — Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  2  heads  of  let- 
tuce, the  heads  of  2  green  onions,  and  a  handful  of  the  tojjs  of  freshly 
cut  mustard  and  water  cress;  add  a  plain  dressing,  placing  it  under 
the  vegetables  and  stirring  well  before  using  The  mustard  and  cress 
are  so  highly  flavored  that  a  plain  dressing  is  better  than  a  more  elab. 
orate  one. 


210  SALADS 

SWEET  POTATO  SALAD — Boil  3  large  sweet  potatoes,  and 
when  thoroughly  cold  cut  them  into  half=inch  squares;  cut  into  very 
small  pieces  2  stalks  of  celery ;  mix  with  a  seasoning  of  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  pour  over  it  a  French  dressing, 

TOMATO  SALAD — (1)  Cut  ripe  tomatoes  into  slices,  remove 
all  the  seeds,  sprinkle  on  a  French  dressing,  let  them  stand  2  hours 
on  ice,  and  they  will  be  ready  to  serve.  (2)  Another  way  is  to  peel 
the  tomatoes,  cut  them  in  two,  put  a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing on  each  half,  and  serve. 

GELATINE  SALAD. — Take  a  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  stew, 
strain,  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  |  box  of  gelatine  soaked  in  |  cup  of 
cold  water,  and  then  dissolved  in  ^  cup  of  boiling  water;  put  it  in 
cujos  and  when  set  and  cold  turn  them  on  to  leaves  of  lettuce  and 
garnish  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

RED  VEGETABLE  SALAD.— Use  2  cups  each  of  cold  boiled 
potatoes,  cold  boiled  beets  and  raw  red  cabbage.  Cut  the  potatoes 
in  thin  slices,  and  the  beets  fine,  and  slice  the  cabbage  as  thin  as 
possible.  Cover  with  a  dressing  made  of  6  tablespoons  of  oil,  8 
tablespoons  of  red  vinegar  (that  in  which  beets  have  been  pickled)  2 
tablespoons  of  salt  and  ^  teaspoon  pepper.  Let  stand  in  a  cold  place 
an  hour  before  serving. 

VARIOUS  VEGETABLE  SALADS.— Almost  any  cold  vegetable 
may  be  used  for  salads,  and  this  is  an  excellent  way  to  utilize  the 
remnants  of  vegetables  left  from  dinner  the  day  before.  Take  any 
one  alone,  or  several  vegetables  mixed,  and  arrange  them  tastefully 
(with  lettuce  if  you  have  it,  without  if  not);  cover  with  a  French  or 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Many  varieties  may  thus  be  made  by  any 
housekeeper. 

WATER=CRESS  SALAD.— Pick  over  the  leaves  and  remove 
bruised  or  wilted  ones;  if  long,  tear  them  into  2=incli  lengths;  if  short, 
it  is  not  necessary.  Cold  boiled  beets,  cut  in  dice,  or  chopped  onion 
may  be  added.  Use  a  French  dressing.  Water=cress  makes  one  of 
the  most  wholesome  of  salads,  and  is  remarkable  for  the  amount  of 
mineral  matter  found  in  it. 

The  garden  cress  also  makes  an  excellent  salad.  Cresses  can  be 
used  alone,  or  mixed  with  cucumbers,  tomatoes  or  onions  for  salads, 
and  then  cover  them  with  a  good  salad  dressing. 

WINTER  SALAD — Bake  1  Spanish  onion  and  1  large  or  2 
medium  sized  beets;  slice  them  and  cut  the  slices  in  two  twice;  cut 
3  stalks  of  celery  quite  fine  and  mix  with  it  1  tablespoon  of  minced 


SALADS  2H 

herbs;  mix  all  together  and  set  in  a  cool  place  till  time  to  serve; 
then  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over  1  tablespoon  of 
butter  and  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar. 

MEAT,  EGG  AND  CHEESE  SALADS. 

BEEF  SALAD. — Take  the  crisp,  small  center  leaves  of  2  heads 
of  cabbage  lettuce;  add  ^  lb.  cold  boiled,  fresh  beef,  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Add  or  not,  as  preferred,  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  sweet 
Spanish  peppers.     Serve  with  a  plain  salad  dressing. 

Lamb  Salad  can  be  made  the  same  way,  by  using  instead  of  the 
beef,  f  lb.  cold  roast  lamb,  cut  in  small  pieces. 

HAM  SALAD — Cut  cold  boiled  ham  into  dice,  lean  and  fat  to- 
gether; niix  with  celery  or  lettuce  and  cover  with  a  boiled  dressing. 

CHICKEN  SALAD.— Take  the  meat  of  2  large  boiled  chickens, 
free  it  from  skin  and  fat  and  cut  in  dice;  add  an  equal  quantity  of 
celery  cut  in  dice,  3  olives,  chopped,  2  teaspoons  capers;  make  a 
dressing  of  6  spoons  salad  oil,  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  2  teaspoons  salt, 
and  a  dash  of  red  pepper;  pour  it  over  the  salad  and  let  stand  several 
hours  in  the  ice  chest.  Then  arrange  it  on  a  platter  in  a  mound, 
pour  on  a  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  garnish  with  lettuce,  olives, 
beets  and  carrots  cut  in  fancy  forms.  The  chicken  should  be  cooked 
the  day  before  using  so  as  to  be  thoroughly  cold.  (See  "Veal 
Salad.") 

Chicken  Salad,  No.  2. — Take  the  meat  from  1  cold  boiled  chicken, 
and  2  teacups  celery;  do  not  chop  either,  but  cut  each  into  dice,  and 
mix.  Put  2  teacups  cream  into  a  sauce^pan  and  boil;  stir  in  4  eggs, 
well  beaten,  until  it  becomes  like  thick  corn-starch;  put  the  sauce= 
pan  into  cold  water  and  stir  in  |  bottle  Durkee's  salad  dressing,  stir- 
ring to  keep  it  from  curdling;  add  vinegar  to  taste.  When  cold, 
pour  over  the  chicken  and  celery.     Excellent. 

TONGUE  SALAD. — Chop  a  nicely  cooked  tongue  fine,  then  add 
chopped  celery  and  lettuce  and  the  whites  of  eggs.  Use  a  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

VEAL  SALAD — Boil  tne  veal  until  it  is  tender;  let  it  become 
quite  cold,  cut  it  quite  fine,  and  use  as  much  chopped  celery  as  veal. 
Mix,  after  chopping,  and  just  before  serving  pour  over  it  a  rich  may- 
onnaise dresssing.  (When  a  large  quantity  of  chicken  salad  has  to 
be  made  for  a  party,  half  the  meat  may  be  of  veal,  boiled  in  the 
chicken  broth  after  that  is  done,  and  no  one  will  ever  know  the 
difference.) 

SWEETBREAD  SALAD.— Cut  cold,  boiled  sweetbreads  into 
cubes;  chill  it  in  the  refrigerator  for  1  hour,  then  add  celery,  cut 


212  SALADS 

fine,  arrange  it  on  lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with  a  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

CHEESE  SALAD. — Arrange  lettuce  in  a  salad  bowl,  sprinkle  on 
grated  cheese,  and  cover  with  a  French  dressing. 

CHEESE  AND  EQQ  SALAD — Put  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs  in 
a  dish,  grate  on  nice  cheese,  add  another  layer  of  eggs,  and  so  on 
alternately.  Put  a  few  capers  and  finely  chopped  pickles  on  top, 
pour  a  mayonnaise  dressing  over  all  and  sprinkle  grated  cheese  on 
top.     Nice  at  picnics. 

EQQ  SALAD. — Put  into  a  salad  bowl  the  leaves  of  a  head  of  let- 
tuce; slice  4  hard=boiled  eggs  and  add;  mince  12  capers  and  sprinkle 
over  the  eggs,  and  cover  with  either  a  French  or  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. Or  (2)  slice  cold  boiled  eggs,  pour  over  a  salad  dressing,  and 
garnish  with  lettuce. 

FISH  AND  SHELLFISH  SALADS. 
FISH  SALAD. — Take  any  cooked  fish  which  has  become  cold, 
remove  skin  and  bones,  and  flake  it  or  cut  in  jiieces,  and  spread  it  on 
lettuce  leaves.  Cover  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Finely  picked  sar- 
dines may  be  added  if  desired,  and  also  some  hard-boiled  eggs.  Sal- 
mon is  the  favorite  fish  for  salads,  but  almost  any  other  will  do. 
The  fish  can  be  mixed  with  cabbage  or  celery  instead  of  lettuce,  if 
more  convenient. 

CRAB  SALAD — Take  the  meat  of  boiled  crab,  chop  it,  and  mix 
a  mayonnaise  sauce  with  it.  Clean  the  shells,  jjut  in  the  mixture, 
and  garnish  with  parsley  or  cresses  and  sliced  lemon. 

LOBSTER  SALAD — It  is  better  to  use  large  lobsters,  as  there 
is  less  waste  than  with  small  ones.  Cut  up  the  meat,  and  pour  on  it 
oil  and  vinegar  in  the  proportion  of  1  tablespoon  of  oil  to  3  of  vine- 
gar, with  pex^per  and  salt,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  cold  place  for  1  hour 
at  least;  this  is  called  ''marinating^''  it,  and  serves  to  season  it.  At 
serving  time,  drain  it  from  the  oil  and  vinegar  not  absorbed,  put  it 
on  a  bed  of  lettuce,  and  cover  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing.  Garnish 
it  with  the  claws  of  the  lobster  and  with  capers,  pounded  coral  and 
parsley  if  you  have  them.  It  can  be  made  without  going  through 
the  marinating  process,  but  we  think  that  an  improvement. 

OYSTER  SALAD.— Use  the  small  oysters,  and  just  let  them 
come  to  boiling  in  their  own  liquor;  skim  and  drain  in  a  colander, 
then  on  a  cloth.  For  a  pint  of  oysters,  add  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar, 
2  of  salad  oil,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  mix  well,  and  set  it  in 


SALADS  213 

the  ice^cliest.  Cut  finely  a  pint  of  nice  white  celery,  and  mix  with 
the  oysters  just  before  serving;  arrange  it  on  a  salad  dish,  garnish 
with  the  white  leaves  of  the  celery,  and  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

SALMON  SALAD — Put  the  meat  of  1  can  of  salmon  in  a  col- 
ander to  drain;  then  carefully  pick  out  any  bones,  skin,  or  unsightly 
bits.  When  well  drained,  put  it  in  a  bowl  in  the  ice^chest  until  time 
to  serve;  make  a  mayonnaise  dressing  and  keep  that  by  itself  in  the 
ice-chest.  Have  ready  the  hearts  of  nice  head4ettuce  leaves  in  ice- 
cold  water;  just  before  serving  put  a  heavy  border  of  lettuce  around 
the  salad  dish,  cut  the  salmon  finely,  and  place  in  the  center;  then 
pour  the  mayonnaise  over  the  fish.  Serve  a  few  of  the  lettuce  leaves 
with  the  salad  to  each  person.  The  water  from  the  lettuce  must  be 
thoroughly  shaken  off,  or  it  will  dilute  the  mayonnaise.  Another 
way  is  to  put  3  stalks  of  sliced  celery  into  a  salad  bowl,  add  ^  lb. 
of  canned  salmon,  arranging  neatly.  Use  mayonnaise  dressing,  gar- 
nish and  serve. 

SARDINE  SALAD — Drain  the  oil  from  a  small  box  of  sardines, 
laying  them  afterward  on  brown  paper  so  that  no  trace  may  re- 
main of  the  oil  in  which  they  are  preserved.  Eemove  the  skin  and 
bones,  and  iDour  a  little  lemon  juice  over  them.  Lay  them  on  a  bed 
of  lettuce,  pour  a  plain  French  dressing  over  them,  and  garnish 
with  2  hard-boiled  eggs  which  have  been  chopped  fine. 

SHRIMP  SALAD — Take  1  can  of  shrimp,  break  them  into  2  or 
3  pieces  each,  add  2  sticks  of  celery,  cut  small,  and  1  bunch  of  let- 
tuce, and  cover  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing.  Marinate  the  shrimps 
for  1  or  2  hours,  after  taking  them  from  the  can,  if  desired. 

FRUIT  AND  NUT  SALADS. 

Note. — Combinations  of  oranges,  pineapples,  bananas  and  other  fruits  sweet- 
ened with  sugar,  are  often  erroneously  called  "fruit  salads."  Strictly  speaking 
fruit  salads  are  prepared  with  oil,  and  acid  fruits,  or  those  with  a  pronounced 
flavor,  are  the  ones  best  adapted  for  salads.  The  combinations  of  fruits  above 
referred  to  belong  properly  with  desserts,  for  which  they  are  intended,  and  in  our 
chapter  on  "Desserts"  (which  see)  we  give  a  great  variety  of  such  dishes. 

AQUACATE  SALAD — Pare  the  aguacate,  cut  it  into  thin  rings 
add  lettuce  and  sliced  onion,  if  liked,  and  cover  with  a  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Aguaoate  is  a  fruit  which  comes  from  the  Vilest  Indies,  and  is  found  in  fruit 
stores  dealing  in  foreign  fruits. 

APPLE  SALAD.— Take  tart  apples  and  slice  them;  chop  young 
green  onions,  mis  the  two  together,  cover  with  a  plain  salad  dressing 
and  serve. 


214  -  SALADS 

BARBERRY  SALAD — Slice  cucumbers,  mix  them  with  barber- 
ries, cover  with  a  plain  salad  dressing  and  serve.  Or  (2)  chop  young 
onions,  mix  them  with  barberries  and  cover  with  a  plain  salad 
dressing, 

CRANBERRY  SALAD — Mix  cranberries  with  chopped  young 
green  onions,  and  cover  with  a  good  salad  dressing. 

CURRANT  SALAD — Take  nice  tender  lettuce,  mix  it  with  cur- 
rants and  cover  with  a  dressing  made  of  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  1  salt- 
spoon  of  pepper,  and  3  tablespoons  of  salad  oil.  It  is  wholesome  and 
refreshing. 

GOOSEBERRY  SALAD. — Chop  young  onions,  mix  them  with 
gooseberries,  cover  with  a  plain  salad  dressing  and  serve.  Or  (2) 
Sliced  cucumbers  can  be  mixed  with  gooseberries,  and  covered  with 
plain  salad  dressing. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  SALAD.— Peel  the  fruit,  remove  the  bitter 
white  membrane,  slice  it,  and  pour  over  it  a  mayonnaise  dressing 
It  makes  a  good  salad. 

FRENCH  FRUIT  SALAD — Use  2  oranges,  3  bananas,  24  large, 
firm,  white  grapes,  12  walnuts,  1  head  lettuce  and  1  cup  mayonnaise. 
Peel  the  oranges,  divide  into  lobes,  cut  each  lobe  into  3  jpieces  and 
remove  the  seeds.  With  a  very  sharp  knife  skin  the  grapes  and  seed 
them.  Slice  the  bananas  with  a  silver  knife,  and  shell  and  halve  the 
walnuts.  Arrange  the  fruit  on  choice  and  delicate  lettuce  leaves, 
cover  with  1  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing  and  serve  ice  cold. 

MELON  SALAD. — Take  ice  cold  muskmelons  (have  them  on 
ice  for  5  or  6  hours);  oi)en  them,  scrape  out  the  seeds,  divide  into 
crescents,  cut  ofp  the  rind  and  green  part,  leaving  the  fully  ripe 
portion  only;  put  these  pieces  in  a  bowl  with  bits  of  ice  among  them, 
pour  on  a  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing  and  serve. 

Watermelons  which  are  lacking  in  sweetness  may  be  served  the 
same  way. 

ORANGE  SALAD — Peel  the  oranges,  slice  them  crossways,  take 
out  the  seeds,  and  cover  with  a  dressing  made  in  the  proportion  of  8 
spoons  of  salad  oil  to  1  spoon  lemon  juice,  and  add  salt  and  a  dash  of 
cayenne;  flavor,  if  desired,  with  a  little  grated  orange  rind.  Excel- 
lent with  cold  game,  roast  pork  or  poultry. 

LEMON  SALAD.— Make  as  directed  for  orange  salad,  but  add  a 
little  lettuce,  and  sprigs  of  mint  or  tarragon,  if  you  have  it. 


SALADS  215 

LIME  SALAD. — Make  the  same  as  directed  for  orange  and 
lemon  salad,  only  use  limes  instead  of  the  other  fruits. 

NUT  SALAD — Mix  together  1  qt.  of  shredded  lettuce,  and  2 
cups  chopped  nuts;  dress  with  a  little  mayonnaise  dressing,  arrange 
in  fresh  lettuce,  and  garnish  with  more  mayonnaise. 

WALNUT  SALAD — Get  the  kernels  as  nearly  whole  as  possible, 
and  let  them  soak  2  hours  in  lemon  juice;  pick  them  out  without 
draining,  and  serve  on  water-cress  or  lettuce,  with  French  dressing. 


VEGETABLES. 


N  abundance  and  variety  of  vei^etables  are  essential  to  perfect 
health.  They  furnish  the  mineral  matters,  alkalies  and 
^X  acids  in  which  meat  is  deficient,  and  most  of  the  carboliy 
drates  needed  by  the  system. 
The  lack  of  fat  in  vegetables  should  be  supi)lied  by  using  butter, 
or  some  other  form  of  fat,  with  them  all.  A  moment's  thought  will 
show  our  readers  that  in  arranging  a  dietary  the  object  is  to  supply 
the  lack  of  any  element  in  one  article  of  food,  by  using  with  it  some 
other  food  containing  the  missing  element.  Although  the  foods  in 
every-day  use  thus  supplement  each  other,  many  people  do  not  think 
of  the  principle  involved.  Why  does  butter  go  with  bread?  Because 
the  gluten  of  the  bread  furnishes  the  albumenoid  element  needed  by 
the  body,  while  the  starch  supplies  the  carbohydrates,  but  bread  it- 
self lacks  fat,  and  the  butter  used  supplies  that.  So  meat  and  pota- 
toes go  well  together,  the  lean  meat  suj^plying  the  albumenoids,  the 
potato  the  carbohydrates,  and  the  fat  or  butter  furnishes  the  fats, 
the  3  together  thus  supplying  the  body  with"  the  3  great  food  ele- 
ments which  it  needs. 

Vegetables  when  taken  as  food  are  valuable  not  only  for  the  direct  nourish- 
ment which  they  afford  to  the  system,  but  also  because  they  impart  to  the  blood 
certain  constituents  which  are  necessary  to  maintain  its  highest  purity.  This  has 
been  amply  proved  by  the  appearance  of  such  blood  diseases  as  scurvy,  etc.,  in  cir- 
cumstances where  vegetable  food  was  not  procurable  for  any  length  of  time.  Few 
people  rightly  estimate  the  value  of  vegetables  to  the  system.  One  of  the  chiet 
benefits  derived  from  eating  them  comes  from  the  salts  which  they  contain,  while 
they  also  introduce  into  the  system  some  water  necessary  for  digestion  and  assimi- 
lation, and  afford  the  benefit  of  variety  in  food.  It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  by 
the  method  of  cooking  vegetables  which  commonly  prevails  in  this  country  the 
greater  part  of  their  salts  are  dissolved  out  by  the  water  in  which  they  are  cooked, 
and  this  water  is  thrown  away,  only  the  vegetable  itself  being  eaten.  There  seems 
to  be  a  common  impression  that  the  water  in  which  many  vegetables  are  boiled  is 
poisonous,  but  this  is  a  most  erroneous  idea. 

In  this  connection  we  quote  from  Mr.  Mattieu  Williams:  "I  must  add  a  few 
words  in  advocacy  of  further  adoption  in  this  country  of  the  French  practice  of  us- 
ing aspotage{iov  soups,  etc)  the  water  in  which  vegetables  generally  (excepting  po- 
tatoes) have  been  boiled.  When  we  boil  cabbages,  turnips,  carrots,  etc.,  we  dissolve 
out  of  them  a  very  large  proportion  of  their  saline  constituents;  salts  which  are 
absolutely  necessary  for  the  maintenance  of  health;  salts  without  which  we  become 
victims  of  gout,  rheumatism,  lumbago,  neuralgia,  gravel,  and  all  the  ills  that  hu- 
man flesh  with  a  lithic  acid  diathesis  is  heir  to;  i.e..  about  the  most  painful  series  of 
all  its  inheritances."  To  which  we  may  add  the  recommendation  to  save  vegetable 
broth,  and  utilize  it  for  soup,  sauce,  etc.  A  rich  soup  can  be  made  from  the  water 
•in  which  potatoes  have  been  boiled  (if  xvithout  their  skins)  by  mashing  2  or  3,  and 
adding  a  little  thickening  and  seasoning  and  a  little  butter.  The  juices  of  other 
vegetables  like  cabbage,  turnips,  celery    and   most  others,  are  palatable  and  work 

216 


VEGETABLES  21^ 

well  into  soups.  Onions  are  an  exception;  they  should  be  used  sparingly,  as  flavor- 
ing, for  those  who  like  them,  but  a  dish  of  boiled  onions,  served  with  the  water  they 
are  boiled  in,  causes  distressing  flatulence  often.  They  can  be  parboiled,  the  water 
changed  once,  and  then  eaten  by  most  people  without  unpleasant  digestive  disor- 
ders. 

All  green  vegetables  are  best  when  tliey  are  grown  quickly,  in 
which  case  they  have  less  woody  fibre.  All  green  vegetables  need  to 
be  eaten  fresh.  When  fresh,  vegetables  will  snap' crisply.  Peas 
picked  in  the  early  moruing  can  be  cooked  the  same  day  in  about  | 
the  time  needed  if  they  are  kept  1  or  2  days  longer,  and  their  flavor 
is  much  better.  Ears  of  green  corn  that  are  just  filled,  will,  if  plung- 
ed into  boiling  water  as  soon  as  gathered,  cook  in  10  minutes,  or 
perhaps  less,  and  if  kept  1  or  2  days  twice  as  much  time  will  be 
needed,  and   they  will  not  then  be  as  tender  and  fine  flavored. 

Very  few  vegetables  are  roasted;  they  are  generally  boiled. 
Those  which  contain  saccharine  matter,  such  as  carrots,  beet-root, 
parsnips,  etc.,  are  best  cooked  by  steam,  as  boiling  water  dissolves 
out  a  large  quantity  of  their  nutritious  ingredients.  Vegetables, 
however,  which  contain  much  starch,  as  a  rule,  are  best  boiled,  as  by 
boiling,  the  granules  of  the  starch  are  ruptured  and  partially  dis- 
solved, and  any  volatile  oils  which  may  be  present  are  expelled,  as 
well  as  the  confined  air.  We  elsewhere  explain  how  much  cooking 
adds  to  the  digestibility  of  starch. 

All  vegetables,  with  a  few  exceptions,  should  be  put  first  into 
boiling  water  which  contains  salt  in  the  proportion  of  an  even  tea- 
spoon to  every  2  qts.  of  water;  the  exceptions  are  old,  dry,  and  partly 
dried  vegetables,  such  as  peas,  beans  of  all  kinds,  and  wilted  vege- 
tables; the  latter  had  better  be  thrown  away  if  they  do  not  become 
crisp  after  standing  a  few  hours  in  cold  water. 

How  to  Boil  Vegetables. — While  in  boiling  meat,  the  great  point  is 
not  to  have  the  water  boil,  but  to  have  it  simmer  instead,  the  great 
point  in  boiling  vegetables  is  not  to  let  the  toiling  stop.  Even  if  the 
boiling  water  could  be  raised  above  212°  the  vegetable  would  be 
rather  improved  than  injured  thereby.  Have  plenty  of  water,  espe- 
cially for  greens  of  all  kinds.  Choose  a  sufficiently  large  kettle,  and 
get  it  |-  full  of  boiling, water  in  ample  time;  then  the  water  will  come 
to  a  boil  more  quickly  when  the  vegetables  are  thrown  in,  for  when 
the  cold  vegetables  are  first  put  in  they  will  check  the  boiling.  The 
quicker  vegetables  boil  the  greener  they  will  be,  and  remember  that 
freshly  gathered  vegetables  do  not  require  as  long  boiling  as  those 
which  have  been  long  kept.  Experience  will  best  tell  you  when  the 
vegetables  are  sufficiently  cooked.  The  rule  should  be  to  cook  them 
until  they  are  soft  and  tender,  hut  no  longer,  because  the  starch  cells 


218  VEGETABLES 

having  then  burst,  they  will  begin  to  absorb  water,  and  the  vege- 
table will  become  soggy,  and  loose  flavor  as  well.  If  not  sufficiently 
done  they  are  indigestible,  and  if  left  too  long  they  become  soggy. 
As  soon  as  they  are  done,  take  them  out  and  serve  them. 

Remember  then,  that  there  is  a  right  and  a  wrong  way  to  boil 
vegetables.  The  essentials  of  the  right  way  are:  (l)'to  put  them 
into  boiling  water,  which  is  slightly  salted;  (2)  haw e  plenty  of  it;  (3) 
do  not  let  the  boiling  sto2:>  until  they  are  done;  (4)  take  them  out  as 
soon  as  they  are  done.  The  wrong  way  is  the  opposite  of  this — it  is 
to  use  little  water,  let  it  simmer  w^ithout  really  boiling,  and  to  leave 
the  vegetables  in  too  long.  If  you  will  try  the  2  methods  once,  the 
difference  in  the  results  and  the  superiority  of  the  first  method  will 
be  apparent.  Asparagus,  cauliflower  and  peas  should  boil,  but  the 
water  should  not  bubble,  as  that  tosses  them  around  and  breaks 
them. 

Time  to  boil. — The  age  of  the  vegetable  and  the  time  it  has  been 
gathered  affects  the  time  needed  to  boil  it,  so  that  it  is  impossible  to 
give  the  exact  time  needed  to  boil  different  vegetables.  When  old 
and  wilted,  more  time  is  needed  than  when  young  and  fresh.  The 
best  rule  is  to  test  them  by  piercing  them  with  a  fork,  watch  them 
closely,  and  cook  until  they  are  soft  and  tender,  but  no  longer. 

The  Pbinciples  Involved  in  Boiling  Vegetables. — These  are  not  generally 
understood.  Each  minute  granule  of  starch,  in  its  original  state,  is  surrounded  by 
a  thin  sheath  of  cellulose,  much  like  the  shell  on  a  chestnut;  this  cellulose  sheath  is 
nearly  insoluble  in  the  digestive  fluids,  so  that  they  cannot  get  at  the  starch  inside. 
In  boiling,  the  starch  swells  and  bursts  this  sheath;  the  starch  thus  liberated  is 
readily  attacked  by  the  digestive  fluids,  which  turn  it  into  sugar,  and  then  it  is  as- 
similated by  the  system.  The  object  therefore,  in  boiling  any  form  of  starch  is 
merely  to  burst  these  cells,  and  that  is  best  done  by  having  the  water  as  hot  as 
possible,  and  by  keeping  it  boiling  actively  as  long  as  the  article  is  in  it.  As  soon 
as  the  starch  cells  burst,  however,  the  vegetable  should  be  taken  out,  as,  if  it  is  left 
in  longer,  the  starch  will  absorb  water  and  deteriorate.  When  starch  is  improper- 
ly cooked  its  digestion  is  very  diflScult  and  much  waste  is  caused  the  system,  which 
is  quite  a  loss  even  to  one  in  good  health;  but  for  invalids  it  is  particularly  im- 
portant that  the  starch  should  be  suitably  cooked  so  as  to  be  easily  digested.  The 
difference  in  the  digestibility  of  different  forms  of  uncooked  starch  is  caused  by 
the  fact  that  the  cellulose  coating  in  some  forms  of  starch  is  tougher  than  in  others. 
When  properly  cooked,  so  that  its  cellulose  sheath  is  burst  open,  all  forms  of 
starch  are  about  equally  digestible. 

In  baking  potatoes  the  heat  of  the  oven  causes  the  starch  granules  to  swell  and 
burst  their  sheaths,  much  as  a  chestnut  or  a  grain  of  popcorn  bursts  open  when 
roasted,  thus  liberating  the  starch. 

Overcoming  the  Odor  of  Boiling. — Various  plans  have  been  devised 
to  mitigate  the  unpleasant  odor  caused  by  many  vegetables  while 
cooking.  (1)  Wrap  a  piece  of  bread  about  the  size  of  a  lemon  in  a 
cloth,  and  drop  it  in  the  kettle  at  the  start;  it  wilt  absorb  the  odor. 

(2)  A  lump  of  charcoal  treated  in  the  same  way  will  alisorb  the  odor. 

(3)  Fold  a  towel  to  3  or  4  thicknesses  and  lay  over  the  kettle.     (4) 


VEGETABLES  219 

A  piece  of  red  pepper,  ^  inch  in  diameter,  dropped  in  at  the  start,  is 
used  by  some  cooks.  The  essential  oils  are  dissolved  out  of  the  veg- 
etable while  cooking,  and  from  this  oil  the  odor  comes.  If  the  water 
is  changed  once  or  twice  while  the  vegetable  is  cooking,  it  will  be  an 
advantage,  but  be  sure  the  fresh  water  is  boiling  hot  when  put  in. 
Changing  the  water  while  cooking  also  gets  rid  of  some  unwholesome 
sulphuric  gases  given  out  by  cabbage  and  onion. 

Effect  of  Different  Waters. — Many  cooks  do  not  understand  the  dif- 
ferent effects  produced  by  hard  and  soft  water;  peas  and  beans  espe- 
cially should  be  cooked  in  soft  water  if  possible  to  obtain  it  (see 
"Kain  Water  Cisterns"),  as  hard  water  containing  lime  and  gypsum 
harden  vegetable  casein,  making  them  less  digestible.  With  some 
vegetables,  soft  water  extracts  most  of  their  flavor  and  salts;  but  the 
addition  of  a  little  salt  partially  remedies  this. 

Hints.— Be  very  careful  to  wash  vegetables  thoroughly,  and  exam- 
ine them  for  insects.  Spinach  should  be  allowed  to  float  on  water  in 
a  deep  vessel  and  then  lifted  out  with  the  hand  and  placed  in  deep 
water  in  another  vessel,  in  order  to  free  it  from  sand. 

Any  vegetables  which  are  peeled  should  be  thrown  into  cold 
water  until  wanted  for  cooking,  to  prevent  their  turning  color. 

When  possible,  it  is  much  better  to  boil  the  different  vegetables 
by  themselves;  also,  when  such  vegetables  as  cabbage,  carrots,  beets, 
onions,  potatoes,  parsnips  or  turnips  are  boiled  with  meat,  the  flavor 
of  both  the  meat  and  the  vegetable  is  injured.  Not  only  this,  but  it  is 
also  better  to  store  vegetables  separately.  Certainly  the  strong  scent- 
ed vegetables,  like  onions,  leeks  and  cabbage,  should  be  kept  apart, 
for  delicate  vegetables  will  be  spoiled  in  a  short  time,  if  near  the 
strongly  scented  ones.  * 

Vegetables  are  much  -icer  boiled  in  slightly  salted  water,  and 
then,  when  seasoned  with  butter,  they  are  usually  salted  sufficiently 
for  most  persons;  the  water  being  salted  reaches  a  higher  temi^erature 
before  boiling,  and  secures  better  cookery  of  the  vegetables. 

It  is  important  that  all  vegetables  should  go  to  the  table  as  hot 
as  possible,  and  2  or  3  two-qt.  tin  basins  are  good  to  keep  them  in 
until  ready  to  put  them  on  the  table;  or  they  may,  if  more  conven- 
ient, be  kept  in  the  kettles  they  were  boiled  in.  Have  the  vege- 
table dishes  (that  will  not  bear  standing  on  the  back  of  the  range  to 
keep  hot)  standing  ready  on  a  table  with  hot  water  in  them.  For 
common  use,  heavy  white  nappies  are  good  for  dishing  up  vegetables, 
as  they  will  bear  standing  on  the  back  of  the  range,  or  in  the  edge 
of  the  oven,  with  the  door  open.  In  dishing  up  vegetables,  di-ain 
them  thoroughly  from  the  water. 


220  VEGETABLES 

Vegetables  which  contain  much  sugar,  like  beets,  turnips 
squash,  pumpkins,  etc.,  especially  if  they  are  not  of  the  best  quality, 
are  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  little  sugar — a  fact  overlooked  by 
many  cooks.  Boiling  deprives  them  of  jjart  of  their  sweetness,  so  add 
a  little. 

Vegetables  like  lettuce  and  cabbage,  which  contain  potasl^  salts, 
are  best  eaten  with  a  mild  acid,  like  vinegar.  It  is  usual  to  serve 
some  condiment,  like  vinegar,  salt,  oil  or  pe^jper,  with  vegetables 
which  are  eaten  raw,  and  which  may  therefore  ferment  in  the  stom- 
ach. 

When,  by  reason  of  long  keeping,  the  freshness  of  salads,  greens, 
roots,  etc.,  has  been  somewhat  lost,  it  may  be  restored  by  putting  the 
stems  and  7'oots  in  cold  fresh  water  for  1  or  2  hours  before  dressing 
them,  but  the  leaves  should  not  be  immersed,  as  that  injures  them. 

In  winter,  or  after  long  keeping,  tuberous  vegetables  like  carrots, 
turnips,  potatoes,  etc.,  become  wilted,  and  their  flavor  impaired;  after 
peeling  and  slicing,  let  them  stand  in  cold  water  for  several  hours 
before  cooking  them,  and  it  will  restore  their  freshness. 

To  shell  beans  easily,  pour  upon  the  pods  a  quantity  of  scald- 
ing water,  and  the  beans  will  slij)  out  very  readily. 

In  boiling  suet  dumplings,  to  be  served  with  meat,  like  a  vegeta- 
ble, put  a  plate  at  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  as,  wlien  first  put  in,  they 
will  sink,  and  sometimes  stick  at  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  and  burn 
When  they  swell  with  boiling,  they  get  light  and  float.  Puddings 
are  always  boiled  in  a  cloth. 

AKTICHOKES. 
JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES— Wash  the  roots  thoroughly, 
scrape  off  the  skin,  cut  off  1  end  flat,  and  leave  the  other  pointed. 
Boil  until  soft,  in  water  containing  a  little  salt,  and  a  few  drops  of 
vinegar.  Cook  until  soft,  but  do  not  leave  longer,  or  they  will  be- 
come hard  again.  Take  them  up  carefully,  put  them  in  the  vegeta- 
ble dish,  and  pour  over  them  scalded  cream,  or  serve  with  a  white 
sauce.  They  can  also  be  chopped  coarsely  and  served  as  a  salad, 
with  a  salad  dressing.     Time  to  boil  about,  20  minutes. 

GLOBE  ARTICHOKES.— Cut  off  the  outside  leaves,  trim  away 
the  lower  ones,  and  boil  in  salted  water  containing  a  few  drops  of 
vinegar;  boil  about  1  hour,  drain,  take  out  the  choke,  and  serve  with 
drawn  butter  poured  over  them. 

FRENCH  ARTICHOKES,  FRIED— Wash  and  trim  the  arti- 
choke  heads,  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices;  place  in  cold  water  with 
a  little  salt  and  vinegar  added;  this  should  be  done  15  or  20  minutes 


VEGETABLES  221 

before  frying  them.  Drain,  and  wipe  tliem  dry;  make  a  batter  with 
3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  salad  oil,  and  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper;  mix  the  sliced  artichoke  thoroughly  with  the 
batter,  then  fry  in  hot  fat,  being  careful  that  the  artichoke  is  cooked 
through  as  well  as  browned. 

CANNED  ARTICHOKES  should  be  placed  in  ice-cold  water  for 
15  minutes  before  serving  them.  The  dressing  to  accompany  them 
IB  made  by  mixing  2  large  spoons  of  vinegar  with  1  of  chopped 
parsley,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  8  spoons  of  good  salad  oil. 

Abtichokes. — There  are  two  vegetables  called  by  this  name,  both  belonging  to 
the  order  Compositce.  The  Jerusalem  artichoke,  {Helianthus  tuberosus)  is  said  to  be 
a  native  of  Brazil,  but  has  long  been  naturalized  in  this  country.  Its  name  is  a 
corruption  of  the  Italian  girasole  (sunflower).  The  flowers  are  like  the  common 
sunflower,  only  smaller,  and  the  roots,  something  like  potatoes  in  shape  and  size, 
are  cooked  as  a  vegetable,  and  sometimes  used  for  pickles.  This  plant  is  perren- 
nial,  and  when  once  planted  in  a  rich  soil  can  be  dug  early 
every  spring;  the  small  roots  left  in.  the  ground  will  keep 
the  crop  growing  year  after  year. 

The  globe,  or  French  artichoke,  so  called  (Cynara  Scols- 
m.us)  is  a  native  of  Asia,  but  is  naturalizdd  in  this  country. 
The  flowerbuds  and  upper  part  of  the  stalks  are  used  for  a 
vegetable  at  table,  and  are  cultivated  from  suckers  placed  in 
rows  3  feet  apart.  Artichokes  contain  80^  of  water;  2  of 
albumenoids;  16%  carbohydrates;  0.5^  fats;  1$^  mineral  mat- 
ters. 

The  Cakdoon  {Cynara  Sardimculus)  is  a  native  of  south- 
ern Europe,  and  much  resembles  the  artichoke.  It  has  pur- 
ple flowers,  and  is  grown,  blanched  and  eaten  like  celery. 

ASPAKAGUS. 

A  LA  FRANCAISE — Wash  and  boil  the  asparagus  until  tender 
— about  15  to  25  minutes;  drain  them,  cut  off  the  heads  and  about  2 
inches  of  the  white  part  of  the  stalks;  mince  them  with  a  knife,  and 
mix  them  with  a  small  onion  cut  finely;  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  well 
beaten,  with  salt  and  x^epper  to  taste;  make  it  hot  in  a  stew=i3an,  and 
dish  it  up  on  a  platter,  with  nicely  browned,  buttered  toast. 

BUTTERED  ASPARAGUS.— Pour  boiling  water  over  a  bunch 
of  asparagus,  then  untie  the  bundle  and  lay  it  in  a  large  frying-pan; 
cover  with  boiling  water,  sprinkle  on  a  very  little  salt,  cover,  and 
cook  20  or  30  minutes — do  not  cook  until  the  heads  break  off.  When 
done,  pour  off  the  water,  lift  the  pieces  carefully  by  the  hard  end  of 
the  stem,  lay  them  in  a  flat  vegetable  dish,  place  bits  of  butter  on  the 
asparagus,  set  in  the  oven  until  the  butter  is  melted,  and  send  to  the 
table. 

CREAMED  ASPARAGUS.— Wash  and  cut  asparagus  in  inch 
pieces  until  the  hard  part  of  the  stem  is  reached,  stew  15  minutes  in 
slightly  salted  water;  then  drain  in  a  colander.  Make  a  rich  cream 
sauce  and  pour  over.     Or  use  drawn  butter. 


222  VEGETABLES 

STEAMED  ASPARAGUS — There  is  another  method  of  boiling 
asparagus,  rarely  practiced  by  American  cooks.  It  is  to  take  the 
stouter  varieties,  cut  them  of  exactly  equal  lengths,  and  stand  them 
on  end  in  a  deep  sauce^pan,  with  the  heads  projecting  about  2  inches 
out  of  the  water;  then  cook  80  to  40  minutes.  By  this  plan  at  least 
^  more  of  the  stalk  will  be  rendered  delicious,  while  the  head  will  be 
properly  cooked  by  the  steam.  Then  season,  and  serve.  This  is 
especially  adapted  to  the  "giant"  and  stouter  varieties. 

Asparagus  is  a  native  of  Europe,  and  is  sometimes  vulgarly  called  sjyarrow- 
grass.  It  is  wholesome,  but  not  very  nutritious,  and  has  been  used  in  medicine, 
being  a  diuretic,  and  aperient.  The  cellular  tissue  contains  a  substance  similar  to 
sago.  Its  juice  composed  of  a  peculiar  crystallizable  principle  called  asparagin 
albumen,  mannite,  malic  acid  and  some  salts. 

To  avoid  getting  the  woody  white  part,  which  is  not  made  tender  by  boiling, 
asparagus  when  gathered  can  be  snapped  off,  instead  of  cutting  it. 

BEANS. 

SHELLED — Shell,  wash  and  boil  until  tender,  adding  salt 
after  they  have  boiled  about  10  minutes.  If  possible,  always  cook 
them  in  soft  water.  They  should  boil  at  least  an  hour.  Season  with 
salt  and  butter.     Add  hot  cream  to  Lima  or  any  white  beans. 

FRENCH  BEANS — Soak  them  over  night,  then  parboil  them 
until  the  skins  loosen,  change  the  water,  and  when  they  are  cool,  rub 
off  the  skins;  put  them  back  in  the  pot  with  fresh  water  to  just  cover 
them,  and  boil  until  they  begin  to  break  in  pieces;  then  drain, 
sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  them,  and  bits  of  butter.  Set 
the  dish  in  the  oven  to  get  hot;  then  send  to  the  table.  Time  to  boil 
if  very  young  10  to  12  minutes;  if  older  15  to  20  minutes. 

STRING  BEANS.— The  bean  pods  should  be  tender  enough  to 
snap  off  short  when  bent.  Pull  off  the  string  on  each  side,  and  break 
in  pieces  |  inch  long.  Boil  in  slightly  salted  water.  A  few  thin 
slices  of  salt  pork  can  be  put  in  or  not,  as  desired.  It  takes  a  full 
hour  to  cook  them  well,  and  may  take  3  with  some  varieties.  Drain, 
and  season  with  butter  and  pepper  or  butter  and  cream,  and  a  little 
more  salt  if  needed.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  change  the  water  once 
while  they  are  boiling,  as  that  gets  rid  of  part  of  an  unwholesome 
gas  which  they  yield  in  boiling. 

DELICIOUS  BAKED  BEANS.— Take  about  3  pints  of  the  small 
white  beans,  wash,  and  then  soak  them  over  night.  Do  not  boil,  but 
put  at  once  in  the  baking  dish  and  add  a  piece  of  salt  pork  that  has 
been  scalded,  or  if  beef  is  preferred,  use  a  piece  of  the  brisket.  Add 
salt,  and  a  little  pepper,  and  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  molasses.  Place  in 
the  oven,  with  i^lenty  of  water  to  cover,  early  in  the  morning,  and  let 


VEGETABLES  223 

cook  all  dny.  Do  not  allow  them  to  cook  dry.  A  teaspoon  of  mustard 
is  sometimes  added  with  the  molasses;  it  adds  to  both  the  flavor  and 
wholesomeness  of  the  beans  when  done. 

NEW  ENGLAND  BAKED  BEANS.— Pick  over  and  wash,  1  pint 
of  beans,  put  them  into  2  quarts  of  cold  water  and  let  them  stand 
over  night.  The  following  morning  drain  off  all  the  water,  and  put 
them  into  an  earthen  bean  pot — which  comes  for  this  purpose — with 
2  tablespoons  of  molasses,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  half  a 
pound  salt  pork — quite  fat — and  fill  the  pot  up  with  boiling  water 
and  bake  from  8  to  10  hours  in  a  good  steady  oven;  keep  the  pot  well 
filled  with  water,  till  2  hours  before  serving,  and  then  allow  it  to 
simmer  away  one-half  at  least.  You  will  find  them  delicious  if  di- 
rections are  strictly  followed. 

Beans  are  supposed  to  be  a  native  of  the  East,  particu- 
larly of  Egypt,  but  have  been  known  in  Europe  from  time 
immemorial,  having,  in  all  probability,  been  introduced  by 
the  Romans.  The  common  dwarf  kidney  bean,  erroneously 
called  the  French  bean,  is  a  tender  annual,  a  native  of  India, 
and  was  introduced  into  Enrope  in  1597,  or  perhaps  earlier. 
All  varieties  of  the  bean  are  wholesome  and  nutritious,  but 
are  not  suitable  to  persons  with  delicate  stomachs  or  of  sed- 
entary habits.  They  are  best  eaten  with  fatty  or  starchy 
foods,  like  bacon  or  rice.  If  bean  flour  was  to  be  had  as 
wheat  flour  is,  a  much  larger  proportion  of  the  nutrient 
parts  of  beans  could  bs  assimilated,  experiment  having 
shown  that  91%   of  bean   flour  was  digested,  and  only  4:0%  of  fkench  beans. 

the  nutritive  parts  were   assimilated  as  ordinarily  prepared. 

If  beans  are  well  cooked  and  passed  through  a  sieve,  it  will  divest  them  of  their 
indigestible  skins,  or  cellulose. 

The  Pulses,  which  include  lentils,  beans  and  peas,  are  among  the  most 
nourishing  of  foods.  Owing  to  the  large  amount  of  nitrogenous  matter  which 
they  contain,  they  should  be  accompanied,  whon  eaten,  with  articles  in  which  fat 
and  starch  abound.  The  nutritive  value  of  these  articles  is  somewhat  deteriorated 
by  the  fact  that  they  are  rather  difficult  of  digestion.  They  sometimes  occasion 
flatulence,  and  have  a  stimulating,  heating  effect  on  the  system.  They  should 
never  be  eaten  without  being  thoroughly  cooked. 

BEETS. 

BOILED — These  should  be  washed  clean,  and  the  tops  and  tips 
cut  closely,  but  do  not  peel  them  nor  prick  the  skin,  as  the  juice  will 
then  escape  and  injure  both  the  oolor  and  flavor.  Cook  until  tender 
in  boiling  water  Young  beets  will  cook  in  about  an  hour;  fully 
grown  ones  take  2  to  4  hours;  the  very  largest  are  not  suitable  for  the 
table,  as  they  are  apt  to  be  tough  and  tasteless.  When  done,  put  them 
in  cold  water  and  rub  off  the  rind;  then  slice,  put  in  a  vegetable 
dish,  and  cover  with  vinegar;  or  serve  with  a  butter  or  white  sauce. 
For  a  "boiled  dinner''  cook  them  by  themselves;  they  are  peeled 
after  cooking,  cut  in  slices,  and  served  without  dressing.  They  are 
also  cut  in  fancy  pieces  and  used  to  garnish  various  dishes.  They 
are  also  used  for  salads  mixed  with  other  vegetables. 


224  VEGETABLES 

CREAMED  BEETS — First  boil  in  imsalted  water  until  ten- 
der; rub  oil  the  skins  with  a  wet  towel,  and  serve  at  once  in  hot 
cream  sauce,  which  can  be  made  while  they  are  boiling.  (See 
"Cream  Sauce.") 

BEET  GREENS. — Beet  greens  are  boiled  whole,  the  beets  with 
the  tops,  while  they  are  young.  Put  into  slightly  salted  boiling 
water,  and  boil  for  an  hour.  When  the  little  beets  are  done,  the 
tops  are  done  also.  Sometimes  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  are  cooked 
with  them.  When  done,  take  up  into  a  colander  and  drain  well,  cut 
through  several  times  with  a  knife,  so  that  they  can  be  served  with 
a  spoon,  and  send  to  the  table  in  a  vegetable  dish.  They  are  usually 
eaten  with  vinegar.  If  no  pork  is  boiled  with  them,  they  can  be 
seasoned  with  a  little  butter,  and  a  very  little  vinegar,  about  a  table- 
spoon to  a  medium=sized  vegetable  dish.  They  can  be  served  hot  ot 
cold. 

The  beet  roo.t  is  a  native  of  the  shores  of  the  Mediterranean.  It  is  wholesome 
and  nutritious,  and  is  chiefly  characterized  by  the  large  amount  of  starch,  sugar, 
und  alkaline  salts  which  it  contains. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS. 
BOILED — Pick  off  all  dead  or  discolored  leaves,  and  soak  in 
cold  salted  water  1  hour  before  cooking;  then  put  them  in  boiling 
water  containing  a  little  salt  and  soda,  the  latter  to  preserve  their 
green  color;  leave  the  kettle  uncovered,  and  boil  briskly  until  tender. 
Drain  and  send  to  the  table  at  once,  as  they  cool  quickly.  Serve 
with  melted  butter  or  maitre  d'hotel  sauce.  Time  to  boil,  10  to  15 
minutes. 

SAUTED — Take  1  qt.  of  sprouts,  remove  loose,  hanging  leaves, 
and  soak  ^  hour  in  cold  water;  then  wash  and  boil 
^  hour  in  2  qts.  of  water,  adding  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
after  the  first  10  minutes;  then  drain  off  all  the 
water,  and  add  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of 
sugar,  1  teasjDoon  of  flour,  \  teaspoon  of  pepper,  and 
1  teaspoon  of  salt;  shake  the  pan  over  the  fire  3  or  4 
minutes,  or  until  the  sprouts  are  slightly  colored. 
Serve  at  once  in  a  warm  dish. 

Brussels  Sprouts  is   a   variety   of   the   cabbage,  and  is  so 
named  because  the  seed  was  obtained  from  Belgium  in  former    bbussels  spboutb. 
times.     It  grows  from  3  to  5  feet  in  height,  the  stalk  terminat- 
ing in  a  large,  cabbage«like  head,  and  the  stem  being  covered  with  the  sprouts. 

CABBAGE. 

BAKED — Boil  a  firm  white  cabbage  for  15  minutes,  changing 
the  water  once;  drain  and  set  aside  until  cold;  then  chop  finely,  and 


VEGETABLES  225 

j,dd  2  beaten  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste; 
stir  all  together  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding^dish  until  brown. 
This  is  economical,  good  and  nourishing.  It  is  sometimes  covered 
with  bread  crumbs,  moistened  with  white  sauce,  and  then  baked. 
Time  to  bake,  about  \  hour. 

BOILED  CABBAGE. — Cut  it  in  quarters,  soak  30  minutes  in 
salted  water;  then  boil  rapidly,  uncovered,  until  tender,  hut  no 
longer,  in  slightly  salted  water;  push  it  down  with  a  spoon  as  it  rises 
above  the  water;  it  should  boil  in  about  25  to  30  minutes.  When 
done,  take  it  up,  drain,  put  it  in  a  vegetable  dish,  and  put  bits  of 
butter  over  it  with  a  little  salt.  Kemember  that  the  secret  of  boiling 
cabbage  is  to  boil  it  rapidly,  uncovered,  and  in  plenty  of  water,  and 
boil  until  tender,  hut  no  longer.  If  boiled  longer  it  becomes  wilted, 
yellow,  and  loses  flavor.  Try  cabbage  thus  cooked  and  see  how 
much  better  it  is  than  when  cooked  in  the  old  way.  If  the  water  it 
is  boiled  in  is  not  very  soft,  add  to  each  4  quarts  of  water  1  saltspoon 
of  baking  soda,  but  no  more. 

FRIED  CABBAGE. — Chop  cold  white  cabbage  quite  fine;  stir  in 
some  melted  butter  to  taste,  pepper  and  salt,  and  four  tablespoons 
of  milk  or  cream;  after  it  is  heated  through  add  1  or  2  welhbeaten 
eggs,  according  to  quantity  of  cabbage;  then  turn  the  mixture  into  a 
well=buttered  spider,  and  fry  about  5  minutes,  or  until  a  light  brown 
on  the  under  side.  Place  a  hot  dish  over  the  pan,  which  must  be 
reversed  when  turned  out  to  serve. 

CABBAGE  AND  MILK.— Cut  the  cabbage  into  very  fine  slices, 
take  out  the  coarser  veins  carefully;  put  it  in  a  tin  sauce-pan,  over 
a  slow  fire,  add  milk  enough  to  cover  entirely,  and  simmer  very 
slowly  2  hours.  Grate  some  nutmeg  over  it  before  serving,  and  add 
a  good  sized  lump  of  butter.  Thus  cooked  its  coarseness  disappears, 
and  it  almost  equals  cauliflower.  Very  few  people  know  how  good  it 
is  thus  prepared. 

COLCANNON — Take  equal  parts  of  cold  cabbage  and  cold  pota- 
toes; cut  all  together  well  with  a  knife;  fry  salt  pork,  and  when  the 
pork  i§  crisp,  put  the  cabbage  and  potato  into  the  fat;  season  with 
jiepioer,  and  a  little  more  salt,  if  needed;  cover  closely  with  a  plate 
and  let  it  steam  in  the  pan  for  |-  hour.  Do  not  stir  it  until  you  take 
it  up,  then  stir  all  together,  and  serve  hot,  with  the  pieces  of  crisp 
pork  around  the  edge  of  the  platter.  A  little  onion  may  be  added  to 
this,  if  liked. 

15 


226 


VEGETABLES 


A  Hint. — The   young  white  leaves   of   a   white*hearted  cabbage 
chopped  fine,  are  a  fairly  good  substitute  for  lettuce  when  the  latter 


IS  scarce. 


The  botanical  order,  CrucifercB,  is  a  most  important  one,  in  fnrnishing  Tarious 
nitrogenous,  and  therefore  highly  nutritious  dishes  for  our  use;  cabbage,  cale,  cau- 
liflower, brocoli,  Brussels  sprouts,  turnips,  all  belong  to  this  order.  For  salads 
and  relishes  we  have  cresses,  pepper=grass,  8curvy=grass,  wild  pepper=root,  rad- 
ishes, horseradish  and  cardamine.  Cabbage  contains  90^  of  water,  and  is  more 
wholesome  than  nourishing.  Its  tendency  is  to  purify  the  blood,  and  it  is  partic- 
ularly serviceable  in  cases  of  skin  disease,  but  should  be  avoided  by  all  who  are 
subject  to  flatulence  and  diarrhea.  It  is  long  in  digesting,  and  is  best  fitted  to 
robust  and  active  persons.  Cabbage  eaten  raw  as  a  salad  is  more  wholesome  than 
when  cooked.  Cabbage  and  cauliflower  contain  more  gluten  than  other  vegeta- 
bles, and  for  that  reason  they  should  be  eaten  with  fatty  foods.  A  mild  acid,  like 
vinegar,  aids  their  digestion. 

CAULIFLOWEK  AND  BKOCOLI. 

BOILED. — Out  cauliflower  where  it  begins  to  branch,  place  it, 
head  down,  in  cold  salted  water  for  an  hour;  this  will  take  out 
hidden  insects  if  there  are  any;  rinse  it  up  and  down  several  times. 
Put  in  a  kettle  with  enough  slightly  salted  boiling  water  to  cover, 
and  boil  till  tender — time  15  to  25  minutes  according 
to  size.  Do  not  let  the  water  bubble  and  boil  so  vio- 
lently as  to  make  the  cauliflower  jump  about,  as  that 
will  break  it.  It  is  sometimes  tied  in  a  muslin  bag; 
if  not,  skim  the  water.  When  done,  put  it  in  a  colan- 
der to  drain  well,  and  at  the  same  time  keep  it  hot. 
Then  cut  it  coarsely  with  a  knife,  put  it  in  a  vegetable 
dish,  put  a  few  lum^DS  of  butter  over  it,  and  send  to 
the  table.  Or  instead  of  the  butter  pour  over  either  a 
bechamel,  Hollandaise  or  cream  sauce.  It  is  used  also 
for  garnishing  chicken  or  sweetbreads,  or  for  salads. 

ESCALLOPED  CAULIFLOWER.— Boil  as  directed 
above.  Then  put  in  a  baking^dish,  pour  over  a  thick 
drawn  butter  sauce,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  put  in 
the  oven  and  bake  until  brown — about  10  to  15  minutes. 
Sprinkle  on  grated  cheese,  also,  before  baking,  if 
desired. 

BROCOLI — This,  both  white  and  purple,  is  only  a 
variety  of  the  cauliflower,  and  is  cooked  in  the  same  ways. 

Caulifoweb  is  only  a  form  of  the  wild  cabbage  in  its  cultivated  state.  Cauli- 
flower has  been  known  since  the  times  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans.  It  is  a  whole- 
some, but  not  particularly  nourishing,  article  of  food;  it  is  difficult  of  digestion, 
and  ought  to  be  avoided  by  those  who  have  delicate  stomachs,  but,  on  the  whole, 
it  is  less  indigestible  and  richer  in  flesh=formers  than  cabbage. 


OAULIFLOWEB. 


VEGETABLES  227 

CAEROTS. 

BOILED. — Wash,  scrape,  not  pare,  cut  into  strips,  barely  cover 
with  boiling  water,  and  as  soon  as  they  begin  to  boil  put  in  a  little 
butter;  as  soon  as  tender  add  some  minced  parsley  and  serve.  They 
need  to  boil  longer  than  most  vegetables.  Time,  1  hour  or  more 
according  to  age.     They  are  often  boiled  with  corned  beef. 

Another  way  is  to  cut  lengthwise,  boil  until 
soft  and  slice  thin.  Put  in  sauce^pan  with  2 
tablespoons  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  milk.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sugar;  stew  15  min- 
utes and  serve. 

CARROTS  WITH  CREAM.— Cut  the  carrots 
in  thin  slices;  boil  in  water  until  almost  tender; 
then  pour  the  water  off  and  add  butter;  fry  them  a 
little;  then  add  a  few  spoons  of  cream;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  very  hot. 

OABKOIS. 

Carrots  grow  in  all  parts  of  the  globe.  They  are  one  of 
the  most  important  vegetables  used  in  domestic  cookery,  and  their  flavor  renders 
them  valuable  in  soups,  stews  and  sauces,  but  they  are  not  particularly  nourishing 
as  it  requires  2  lbs.  of  carrots  to  produce  1  oz.  of  the  nitrogenous  substance  of 
muscle  and  flesh.  They  contain  pectine  (a  gelatinous  substance)  instead  of  starch, 
and  hence  soups  containing  them  become  gelatinous  when  cold.  For  1  part  of 
flesh=formers  they  contain  10  of  heatsgivers. 

CELERY. 

Many  people  throw  away  the  outside  green  stalks  of  celery,  not 
knowing  that  it  makes  a  very  savory  dish  when  stewed.  Take  all  the 
fine  white  stalks,  wash  well  and  serve;  the  remainder  break  into 
short  pieces,  pulling  off  all  the  stringy  outside.  Put  the  pieces  in  a 
stew=pan,  cover  well  with  boiling  water,  and  boil  ^  hour.  Make  a 
cream  or  drawn  butter  sauce,  pour  it  over  the  celery,  and  serve. 

BAKED  CELERY — Take  a  qt.  of  veal  stock,  and,  having  par- 
boiled a  proper  amount  of  the  stalks,  put  them  into  a  baking=dish. 
Rub  together  2  spoonfuls  of  butter  and  2  of  flour,  smoothly,  then 
beat  in  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and  stir  these  into  the  veal  broth,  and 
pour  it  over  the  celery.  Lastly,  cover  the  top  with  finely  grated 
bread  crumbs,  and  then  with  grated  cheese.  Bake  10  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven.  This  is  one  of  the  most  delicious  forms  in  which  celery 
can  be  put  upon  the  table. 

FRIED  CELERY — After  cutting  it  into  inch  lengths,  and  boil- 
ing till  tender  in  slightly  salted  water,  dip  the  pieces  in  fritter  batter 
and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat.      Garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  with 


228  VEGETABLES 

tomato  sauce.      Or  sprinkle  the  pieces  with  salt  and  nutmeg;  then 
egg  and  bread=crumb  them  and  fry  the  same  way; 
drain  on  a  sieve  and  serve  on  a  napkin. 

Celsry  grows  wild  nearly  all  over  Europe,  growing  chiefly 
in  ditches  and  marshes  near  the  sea,  and  when  wild  is  called 
Smallage.  Smallage  was  first  cultivated  by  Italian  gardeners 
and  the  result  of  their  labors  was  the  production  of  two  plants, 
Celery  and  Celeriac.  The  latter  variety  (often,  also,  called  Ger- 
man or  knob  celery)  is  turnip=shaped,  and  large,  and  is  exten- 
sively used  by  the  Germans,  who  prefer  it  to  the  variety  we 
commonly  use.  In  its  raw  state,  it  is  not  suited  to  persons  of 
weak  stomachs,  but  is  more  easily  digested  when  cooked. 
Celery  has  medicinal  properties,  and  is  used  as  a  corrector  of 
bilious  conditions,  and  as  a  tonic  for  the  nervous  system.  It 
contains  about  93  per  cent,  of  water,  1  of  albumen,  2  of  sugar,  1 
of  mineral  matter,  and  2  of  starch,  etc.  celeby. 

CORN. 

BOILED. — Green  corn  when  in  proper  condition  for  boiling 
should  be  well  filled  out,  but  still  in  the  milk,  so  that  it  will  exude 
freely  when  pressed  with  the  nail.  It  should  be  put  when  freshly 
gathered  into  slightly  salted  boiling  water,  and  as  soon  as  its  milk 
thickens,  and  the  raw  taste  is  gone,  it  should  be  taken  up,  as  longer 
cooking  hardens  it  and  injures  its  flavor.  Corn  for  fritters,  pud- 
dings, etc.,  may  be  a  trifle  older,  but  never  out  of  the  milk. 

To  cut  corn  from  the  cob  the  best  way  is  to  stand  it  on  the  small 
end,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  about  half  the  kernel ;  then  with 
the  back  of  the  knife  press  and  scrape  out  the  remainder  with  a 
downward  stroke.  If  scraped  with  the  sharp  edge  it  will  carry  many 
of  the  hulls  with  it,  and  they  are  not  wanted.  This  is  the  best 
method  of  cutting  ofP  corn  for  canning  or  any  purpose. 

DRIED  CORN — Select  corn  that  is  right  for  boiling,  and  boil  5 
minutes  in  slightly  salted  water;  then  cut  and  scrape  from  the  cob  as 
above,  and  dry  in  the  oven  in  shallow  pans  or  on  plates.  Pack  in 
paper  bags,  and  hang  in  a  dry  place  or  it  will  mold.  It  sours  easily, 
and  the  drying  process  should  not  be  long.  To  use  it,  soak  over 
night,  and  then  cook  like  green  corn.  Season  with  butter,  cream, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  serve. 

BAKED  CORN — Take  48  full  ears  of  sweet  corn,  cut  and  scrape 
from  the  ears  as  above,  and  then  pound  in  a  mortar;  add  (according 
to  the  juiciness  of  the  corn)  3  or  4  cups  of  milk,  4  well  beaten  eggs, 
^  teacup  butter,  the  same  of  flour  rubbed  fine  in  a  little  milk,  1 
tablespoon  of  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste.  Pour  into  a  well  greased 
earthen  dish,  bake  2  hours  till  browned  on  top,  and  place  on  the 
table  hot.     Eat  with  plenty  of  fresh  butter. 


VEGETABLES  229 

CORN  CHOWDER.— Take  1  can  of  corn,  -er  the  same  amount  of 
green  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  2  oz.  pork  fried  brown  and  chopped,  6 
potatoes  sliced  thin,  1^  quarts  water;  cook  until  the  potatoes  are 
done — about  25  minutes;  then  add  2  cups  milk,  and  butter  and  salt 
to  taste. 

ESCALLOPED  CORN. — Cut  corn  from  the  cob,  spread  a  layer  in 
a  basin,  season,  put  on  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  season,  and  so  on 
with  alternate  layers,  seasoning  each  layer;  then  fill  the  dish  with 
rich  milk  in  which  a  little  soda  is  dissolved,  and  bake  1  hour. 

FRIED  CORN. — Select  roasting  ears,  cut  the  corn  from  the  cob, 
add  salt  and  pepper,  put  it  in  a  large  pie=tin  containing  hot  butter, 
set  where  it  will  cook  slowly,  and  fry,  stirring  it  often.  If  it  should 
stick  to  the  pan  add  a  very  little  water,  but  not  otherwise. 

'  ^  CORN  OYSTERS — Cut  the  corn  from  6  ears,  add  to  it  1  well 
beaten  egg,  1  tablespoon  of  sweet  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  then  flour 
enough  to  make  a  pretty  stiff  batter;  drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  into 
smoking  hot  fat,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown. 

GREEN  CORN  PUDDING.— Take  the  pulp  from  2  doz.  ears  of 
corn,  1-|  quarts  of  new  milk,  2  crackers  rolled  fine,  3  eggs,  2  teacups 
sugar,  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  the  crackers  with  the  milk,  then  put  in 
the  corn  and  other  ingredients;  bake  slowly  2^  hours.  Serve  warm 
with  butter  and  pepper. 

CORN  SOUFFLE — Take  2  cups  of  canned  corn,  2  cups  of  milk, 
2  eggs,  salt  to  taste.  Beat  the  eggs  until  very  light;  add  the  other 
ingredients;  put  the  mixture  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and  bake 
about  40  minutes 

STEWED  CORN. — Cut  young  corn  from  the  ear,  put  it  in  a 
basin,  cover  it  with  milk,  and  cook  ^  hour,  stirring  it  frequently; 
then  season  to  taste,  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  add  some  rich 
cream  in  which  a  little  corn=starch  is  stirred,  and  serve. 

SUCCOTASH — Boil  or  steam  the  corn  and  cut  it  from  the  cob; 
allow  2  cups  corn  for  1  cup  beans.  Any  good,  fresh  shelled  beans 
may  be  used;  they  should  be  boiled  by  themselves,  in  slightly  salted 
water,  until  they  begin  to  break;  then  drain  them  in  the  colander, 
mix  them  with  the  corn,  and  season  to  taste,  with  cream,  butter, 
pepper  and  salt. 

Indian  corn  is  a  native  of  America,  where  it  was  cnltivated  by  the  aborigines 
before  the  discovery  of  America  by  Columbus.  There  are  many  varieties  of  the 
plant,  and  the  grains  vary  in  color,  but  the  yellow  is  the  most  common.  Although 
ti  is  deficient  in  gluten  it  is  richer  than  other  grains  in  oily  and  fatty  matter;    hut 


230  VEGETABLES 

the  constituent  elements  of  the  different  varieties  vary  a  good  deal.  It  is  highly 
nutritious,  and  rivals  rice  and  sugar  cane  in  its  importance  to  the  human  family. 
It  is  a  very  important  article  of  consumption  alike  for  man  and  beast.  Owing  to 
its  lack  of  gluten  it  is  not  sufficiently  sticky  to  hold  together  well,  and  so  does  not 
make  good  bread.  Corn=meal  is  not  suitable  for  an  exclusive  diet,  but  it  makes  a 
very  valuable  addition  to  our  food  resources,  and  is  more  fattening  than  wheat 
flour. 

CUCUMBERS. 

These  are  usually  served  raw,  cut  in  slices,  and  served  with 
pepper,  salt  and  vinegar,  and  onions  are  sometimes  added.  Three 
or  4  hours  before  serving  they  should  be  peeled,  sliced  and  placed 
in  a  large  bowl  of  water  to  stand  1  or  2  hours;  then  the  water 
should  be  poured  off,  and  fresh,  cold  water  added,  and  just  before 
sending  to  the  table,  the  water  should  be  changed  again.  Serve  in 
salad  dishes,  and  send  around  with  them,  salt,  black  pepper,  vinegar 
and  oil,  to  be  added  by  each  person  as  preferred.  Thus  served, 
they  are  not  so  likely  to  prove  indigestible  as  when  served,  as  they 
sometimes  are,  by  slicing  wilted  cucumbers  a  few  minutes  before  a 
meal,  sending  to  the  table  in  the  first  water  they  are  placed  in,  and 
strong  vinegar  and  salt  added  to  that,  which  causes  them  to  wilt 
still  more;  served  in  the  latter  way,  it  is  no  wonder  that  people 
say,  "  I  cannot  eat  cucumbers — they  always  distress  me." 

BOILED. — After  paring  the  cucumbers,  and  slicing  about  |  inch 
thick,  boil  them  about  12  minutes  in  slightly  salted  water,  con- 
taining a  little  vinegar.  Serve  with  drawn  butter  or  Hollandaise 
sauce. 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS — Peel  and  slice  them,  and  soak  in  cold 
water  an  hour;  this  takes  out  the  gummy  qualities  of  the  plant; 
then  drain  and  dry  the  slices  on  a  cloth;  dip  the  pieces  in  egg, 
then  in  flour,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS — Peel  and  slice  fresh  young  cucum- 
bers, and  soak  them  an  hour  in  cold  water;  then  put  them  in  a 
stew=pan  with  just  sufficient  water  to  cover  them,  and  let  them  boil 
until  soft — about  ^  hour;  then  take  off  the  cover,  to  let  them  dry 
down  a  little,  dredge  in  a  little  flour,  to  thicken  the  water  they  were 
stewed  in,  add  a  piece  of  butter,  with  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper. 
Sweet  cream  can  be  used  instead  of  butter,  if  one  has  it,  and  it  is 
much  better. 

The  cucumber  is  a  native  of  Asia,  and  it  has  been  cultivated  from  very  early 
times.  It  is  not  very  nutritious,  and,  generally  speaking,  it  is  not  suited  to  weak 
stomachs,  as  it  is  indigestible  and  disagrees  with  many  when  eaten  raw,  but  when 
stewed,  it  is  light  and  wholesome.  It  contains  about  })f)  per  cent,  of  water,  some 
grape  sugar,  and  a  little  volatile  flavoring  matter. 


VEGETABLES  231 

EGG  PLANT. 

BAKED. — Pare,  slice  and  boil  till  tender,  in  slightly  salted 
water;  then  drain,  masli,  and  add  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  milk, 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  butter  and  minced  parsley; 
beat  together,  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  bread 
crumbs  on  top,  and  bake  a  nice  brown.  Time,  altogether,  about  1\ 
hours. 

FRIED — Cut  in  slices  without  paring,  sprinkle  on  salt,  pile 
them  up,  and  weight  them  with  a  flat-iron  or  other  weight;  let  stand 
about  an  hour  and  it  will  squeeze  out  much  of  their  bitter  flavor; 
rinse  them  off  in  cold  water,  drain,  dip  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs, 
then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again,  and  fry  brown  in  a  fry- 
ing-pan.    They  are  sometimes  dipped  in-  batter  and  then  fried. 

Egg  Plant  belongs  to  the  order  Solanaceoe,  which  includes  also  tobacco  and 
potatoes.  All  varieties  of  this  order  contain  a  bitter,  more  or  less  poisonous  juice. 
The  egg  plant  is  indigenous  to  the  East  Indies.  There  are  several  varietes;  one 
of  which  is  the  Dead  Sea  apple. 

ENDIVE. 

STEWED  ENDIVE — Wash  and  free  6  heads  of  endive  thor- 
oughly from  insects,  remove  the  green  part  of  the  leaves,  and  put  it 
into  boiling  water  slightly  salted.  Let  it  remain  for  10  minutes; 
then  take  it  out,  drain  until  there  is  no  water  remaining,  and  chop  it 
very  fine.  Put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  1  pint  of  broth;  add  a  little 
salt  and  a  lump  of  sugar,  and  boil  until  the  endive 
is  perfectly  tender.  When  done,  it  may  be  ascer- 
tained by  squeezing  a  piece  between  the  thumb 
and  finger,  add  a  thickening  of  butter  and  flour,  and 
1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice;  let  the  sauce  boil  up, 
and  serve.     Time  to  boil,  10  to  15  minutes. 

Endive  is  said  to  be  a  native  of  China  and  Japan. 
It  has  long  been  cultivated  as  a  garden  vegetable,  and 
used  for  salads  and  soups.  It  is  slightly  narcotic,  and  has 
a  bitter  taste,  on  account,  of  which  some  people  dislike  it 
very  much  while  those  who  like  it  call  it  a  fine  bitter. 

GKEENS. 

Dandelions  are  most  commonly  used  for  greens,  either  alone  or 
mixed  with  other  herbs,  as  plantain,  young  milk-weeds,  scurvy=grass, 
beet^tops,  horseradish  tops,  and  the  young  shoots  of  poke  or  gorget; 
the  roots  of  the  latter  plant  are  a  violent  cathartic,  and  should  never 
be  used.  Wash  and  examine  all  herbs  used  for  greens,  and  then 
boil  them  till  tender  in  slightly  salted  water.  A  little  baking  soda 
added  to   the   water   in  which  the  greens  are  cooked  will  preserve 


232  VEGETABLES 

their  color,  and  it  also  softens  the  cellulose.  Salt  pork  is  commonly 
boiled  with  them,  but  they  are  rather  more  wholesome  boiled  with- 
out it.  When  done,  drain  them  in  a  colander,  and  while  draining 
cut  them  through  and  through  in  every  way,  to  facilitate  serving 
them;  then  put  them  on  a  platter,  season  with  butter  and  salt,  and 
Bend  vinegar  around  with  them.  If  salt  pork  is  boiled  with  them, 
slice  it,  and  use  it  to  garnish  the  greens  instead  of  the  butter. 
Greens  are  usually  eaten  in  the  spring,  and  are  chiefly  valuable  for 
their  alkaline  salts  and  water. 

KOHLRABI. 

Peel,  cut  it  in  two,  and  then  slice  thin;  put  into  salted  water, 
parboil,  and  then  drain;  then  stew  it  in  some  weak  broth;  when 
nearly  done,  shred  some  of  the  green  leaves  growing  at  the  top, 
and  add  them;  they  will  tinge  it  a  light  green.  When  tender,  drain 
out  the  kohlrabi.  Make  a  bechamel  sauce  with  the  liquid  in  which 
it  is  cooked,  pour  it  over  the  vegetable,  let  it  get  hot,  and  serve. 
Time,  15  to  25  minutes. 

Kohlrabi  is  a  cultivated  variety  of  the  cabbage,  distinguished  by  the  swelling 
in  a  globular  form  of  that  part  of  the  stem  which  is  just  above  the  ground. 
This  protuberance  is  the  part  used,  its  uses  being  similar  to  the  turnip.  It  is  only 
fit  to  use  when  young,  being  then  wholesome,  nutritious  and  palatable;  later  it 
contains  much  indigestible  fibrous  matter.  It  is  very  valuable,  also,  as  food  for 
cattle. 

LETTUCE. 

If  lettuce  has  become  wilted  in  the  market,  let  it  stand  with 
the  stems  in  a  bowl  of  cold  water  for  several  hours  before  using,  to 
become  crisp  again.  Just  before  serving,  wash  carefully,  then  shake 
off  the  water,  tear  it  in  small  pieces,  as  it  is  more  convenient  to 
serve  in  that  way.  It  should  never  be  cut  with  a  knife.  Pile  it  in 
a  glass  dish,  and  serve  on  salad  dishes,  or  small  plates.  Vinegar 
and  sugar  is  sometimes  used  for  a  dressing,  or  oil  and  vinegar,  salt 
alone,  French  salad  dressing,  or  mayonnaise  if  preferred.  It  is  deli- 
cious served  with  lemon  juice,  using  sugar  also  if  liked. 

FRIED  LETTUCE — Chop  lettuce  and  the  tops  of  2  onions 
fine,  add  2  welhbeaten  eggs,  put  a  little  salad  oil  or  butter  into  a 
frying-pan,  and  pour  in  the  mixture  well  beaten;  cover,  stir  up 
when  well  heated,  and  serve  with  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  or  without 
either,  .according  to  taste. 

STEAMED  LETTUCE.— Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan,  add  vinegar  and  1  well  beaten  egg;  stir  well  together,  and  add 
the  leaves  from  2  large  heads  of  lettuce,  cover,  and  let  it  steam  until 
the  lettuce  is  well  wilted;  serve  hot. 


VEGETABLES  233 

Lettuce  is  snppoeed  to  be  a  native  of  the  East  Indies,  but  it  has  been  cultiva- 
ted in  Europe  from  very  early  times.  It  is  wholesome  and  has  a  particularly 
pleasant  taste.  It  is  said  to  have  a  sedative  action  on  the  nervous  system,  which 
allays  pain  and  induces  sleep.  Those  who  have  no  tendency  to  apoplexy,  and  who 
are  troubled  with  wakefulness  may  be  recommended  to  eat  lettuce  at  supper.  It 
contains  little  nutriment,  being  d6%  water.  It  contains  about  1%  of  mineral  mat- 
ters (especially  nitre),  which  are  useful. 

MAOAEONI,  SPAGHETTI  AND  VEKMICELLI. 
BOILING  MACARONI.— Do  not  wash  macaroni,  as  that  extracts 
part  of  its  nutrients.  After  breaking  it  into  suitable  lengths  put  it 
into  plenty  of  boiling  water,  slightly  salted,  and  boil  actively  until  it 
is  done;  most  cook  books  say  to  boil  it  15  to  20  minutes,  but  you  will 
find  it  better  if  you  boil  it  ^  to  f  hour,  but  do  not  boil  it  too  long  or 
it  will  logiB  its  nutritive  qualities;  then  drain  in  a  colander,  pour  on 
cold  water,  which  will  prevent  its  sticking,  then  spread  the  strips 
beside  each  other  and  cut  them  all  at  once  into  pieces  about  an  inch 
long,  which  is  better  than  leaving  them  in  unweildy  lengths. 

BAKED  MACARONI — Boil  and  prepare  as  above  directed;  then 
butter  a  baking^dish,  put  in  the  macaroni,  cover  with  bread  crumbs, 
pour  a  little  melted  butter  on  top,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  5  min- 
utes, and  serve. 

FRIED  MACARONI — Boil  the  macaroni  as  above,  and  grate 
cheese.  Take  the  cold  macaroni,  make  it  into  little  balls  with  the 
cheese,  egg  and  bread-crumb  them,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat  to  a 
rich  brown. 

MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE.— Boil  i  lb.  and  prepare  as  above 
directed;  then  make  a  sauce  with  1^  cups  hot  milk,  and  1  tablespoon 
each  of  butter  and  flour,  and  salt  to  taste.  Then  in  the  bottom  of 
the  baking^dish  put  a  layer  of  grated  cheese,  put  on  a  layer  of  maca- 
roni, and  cover  with  the  sauce;  then  other  layers  of  cheese,  macaroni 
and  sauce;  put  fine  bread  crumbs  on  top,  dot  with  bits  of  butter  and 
a  little  grated  cheese,  and  bake  until  the  top  is  browned.  Time, 
about  20  minutes. 

MACARONI  WITH  MILK  SAUCE— Boil  and  prepare  the 
macaroni  as  above;  make  a  sauce  with  1  cup  milk  thickened  with  a 
dessertspoon  of  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together,  and  a  little  salt-, 
after  it  has  boiled  a  few  moments  drop  in  the  macaroni,  and  in  5 
minutes,  dish  up  and  serve. 

SPAGHETTI — Boil  this  the  same  as  macaroni,  only  it  does  not 
need  to  cook  quite  as  long,  and  drain  and  pour  on  cold  water  the 
same.  Out  it  or  not  as  you  prefer.  It  can  be  treated  otherwise 
much  the  same  as  macaroni. 

Vermicelli  is  treated  the  same  as  spaghetti. 


234  VEGETABLES 

Macaboni  is  a  particular  form  of  wheaten  flour.  It  is  made  by  selecting  th 
finest  flour,  making  it  into  a  paste  with  water,  then  pressing  it  through  holes  o 
molds  in  a  metal  plate,  or  stamping  it  to  the  desired  form,  then  drying  or  baking 
it.  When  properly  dressed  it  is  pleasant  and  wholesome,  but  not  so  easy  of  diges- 
tion as  some  other  wheaten  preparations.  It  is  nutritious,  however,  and  if  well 
cooked  deserves  au  extensive  use.  Butter  and  cheese  go  well  with  it,  as  the  butter 
supplies  the  fat  it  lacks,  and  cheese  adds  the  albumenoid  element  in  its  casein. 

VEEMioEiiLii  and  Spaghetti  are  prepared  in  the  same  way  as  macaroni,  only 
they  are  pressed  through  smaller  holts,  making  them  a  little  smaller  round. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Never  be  content  with  wiping,  but  always  wash  mushrooms, 
thoroughly,  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  They  should  be  cooked  soon  after 
being  gathered,  for  as  soon  as  decay  begins  they  are  unfit  for  food* 
To  this  cause  alone  many  of  the  cases  of  illness  caused  by  them  can 
be  attributed.  The  trimmings  are  useful  for  flavoring  gravies, 
soups,  ragouts,  etc. 

MUSHROOMS,  FRIED.— Peel,  cut  o&  the  stalks,  and  place  them 
in  the  frying-pan  with  a  little  butter;  fry  gently  until  they  are  quite 
tender;  season  with  pejoper  and  pour  the  contents  of  the  frying-pan 
over  them.  If  desired  put  them  on  buttered  toast  before  pouring  on 
the  gravy. 

ESCALLOPED  MUSHROOMS.— Take  3  cups  chopped  mush- 
rooms and  2  cups  cracker  crumbs,  rolled  fine.  Put  a  layer  of  cracker 
crumbs  into  a  pudding-dish,  then  a  layer  of  mushrooms;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  add  bits  of  butter.  Add  alternate  layers  of  crackers 
and  mushrooms  thus,  finishing  with  crackers.  Then  pour  on  1  cup 
cream,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  1  hour. 

MUSHROOM  PIE — Cut  fresh  agarics  in  small  pieces;  add  pep- 
per, salt,  and  place  them  on  small  shreds  of  bacon  in  the  bottom  of  a 
pie  dish;  cover  with  mashed  potatoes,  and  so  add  alternate  layers, 
having  potato  on  top.     Bake  well  ^  hour,  and  brown  before  a  quick 


MUSHROOMS  EN  RAGOUT — Put  into  a  sauce=pan  a  little 
"stock,"  vinegar,  parsley,  salt,  spices,  and  green  onions  chopped  up; 
when  about  to  boil  put  in  the  cleaned  mushrooms;  when  done  till 
tender,  remove  from  the  fire  and  thicken  with  yolks  of  eggs. 

MUSHROOMS  ON  TOAST — Put  2  cups  mushrooms  into  a  stew» 
pan  with  2  oz.  butter  rolled  in  flour;  add  1  teaspoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon 
each  of  white  pepper  and  grated  lemon  peel  and  a  blade  of  powdered 
mace;  stew  until  the  butter  is  absorbed  and  the  mushrooms  tender. 
Serve  at  once  on  toast.     Garnish  with  lemon. 


VEGETABLES  235 

CANNED  MUSHROOMS.— Take  1  can  mushrooms,  add  2  tea- 
spoons melted  butter  with  flour  and  salt;  heat  in  a  double  boiler 
thoroughly.  Stir  in  1  beaten  egg  and  3  tablespoons  of  cream  just 
before  serving. 

Our  Colored  Illustrations. 

Fig.  I — The  Morel  (Morchella  esculenta).  This  mushroom  is 
found  in  April  and  May  in  grassy  places  on  the  borders  of  fields  and 
the  raised  banks  of  streams,  sometimes  in  fir  or  chestnut  forests  and 
in  hilly  countries. 

Cooking  them.  (1)  Eemove  the  butt  of  the  stem  and  wash  and  dry 
carefully.  Out  large  ones  in  small  pieces,  and  split  small  ones. 
Pour  on  boiling  water,  set  on  stove  5  minutes  and  then  drain.  Then 
gently  stew  1  hour  in  a  little  water;  then  add  a  little  soup  stock,  pej)- 
per,  salt  and  butter,  and  onion  if  liked,  and  cook  a  few  minutes. 
Serve  on  buttered  toast.  Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon.  (2)  Fill 
them  with  a  forcemeat  of  seasoned  bread  and  wrap  them  in  thin 
slices  of  salt  pork  or  bacon ;  bake  in  the  oven  30  to  40  minutes,  or 
slowly  stew  1  hour  in  good  broth,  (3)  Escallop  them  as  directed 
above  for  mushrooms. 

Fig.  2 — Meadow  Mushroom  {Agaricus  campestris).  This  vari- 
ety grows  in  open  grassy  places  in  fields  and  rich  pastures,  but  never 
in  thick  woods.  They  are  fall  mushrooms.  Cooking.  (1)  To  fry, 
scald  a  few  seconds,  dry  with  a  cloth,  dredge  with  flour  seasoned  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  5  or  6  minutes  in  smoking .  hot  fat.  Serve 
hot.  (2)  They  can  be  boiled  and  then  they  make  desirable  additions 
to  soups,  gravies,  ragouts,  etc.  (3)  Stewed  with  butter,  spice,  pars- 
ley, salt,  pepper,  lemon  juice  and  sweet  herbs  it  goes  well  with  steak 
or  mutton  chops.  (4)  Escallop  as  directed  above  for  mushrooms. 
(5)  It  makes  a  fine  catsup. 

Fig.  3. — Chanterelle  {Cantharellus  cibarious).  This  variety  is 
generally  found  in  light  woods  and  high  situations,  and  it  grows  in 
great  abundance.  For  cooking,  choose  crisp,  heavy  ones  rather  than 
light  soft  ones,  as  they  are  less  likely  to  become  leathery.  They  are 
sometimes  soaked  in  milk  over  night  to  make  them  tender.  To  stew, 
cut  them  across  and  remove  the  stems;  put  them  into  a  closely  cov- 
ered saucespan,  with  a  little  butter,  and  stew  till  tender  at  the  lowest 
possible  temperature;  great  heat  destroys  the  flavor.  As  they  are 
rather  dry  and  tough,  long,  slow  stewing  is  needed,  with  plenty  of 
liquid. 

Fig.  4. — Hedgehog  or  Spine  Mushroom  {Hydmim  rcpaudinn). 
This  is  the  most  desirable  species  of  the  genus  Hydnum.  It  may  be 
stewed  in  brown  or  white  sauce,  cooking  slowly  and  for  a  long  time; 
as  it  is  naturally  deficient  in  moisture  keep  well  supplied  with  liquid. 
This  species  is  easily  i3reserved  and  may  be  kept  a  long  time. 

Fig.  5. — Horse  Mushroom  {Agariciifi  avvcusis).  This  variety 
is  found  in  the  fields  and  pastures  in  autumn.  Its  flesh  is  firm  ami 
delicious  and  yields  an  abundant  gravy* 


236  VEGETABLES 

Fig.  6.— The  Oyster  Mushroom  {Agaricus  ostreatus).  This  va- 
riety is  found  on  dead  tree  trunks  in  the  fall.  It  can  be  cooked  in 
any  of  the  usual  ways  given  above  for  mushrooms,  but  is  belter  cook- 
ed over  a  slow  fire. 

Fig.  7.— Orange  Milk  Mushroom  (Ladarius  deliciosus).  This 
variety  is  found  in  swampy  woods  and  in  forests  of  fir  and  pine.  Its 
flavor  when  cooked  is  thought  to  resemble  kidney  stew.  It  requires 
delicate  cooking,  as,  if  kept  over  the  fire  until  its  juice  evaporates  it 
becomes  tough.     It  is  probably  best  baked. 

Fig.  8. — Edible  Pore  Mushroom  {Boletus  edulis  Bull).  This  va- 
riety is  found  chiefly  in  the  woods,  especially  of  pine,  oak  and  chest- 
nut. It  is  most  abundant  in  autumn,  but  is  found  in  spring  and 
summer.  Its  flesh  is  tender  and  juicy  and  it  requires  less  cooking 
than  some  of  the  tougher  varieties.  It  can  be  (1)  broiled;  or  (2) 
stewed  in  white  sauce  with  or  without  chicken  in  fricassee;  or  (3) 
escalloped  as  directed  above  for  mushrooms. 

Fig.  9. — The  Plum  Mushroom  {Agaricus  prunulus).  This  va- 
riety grows  in  and  near  damp  woods.  The  flesh  is  firm,  juicy  and 
full  of  flavor.  It  may  be  (1)  broiled;  or  (2)  stewed,  and  is  then  de- 
licious. 

Mushrooms  belong  to  the  genus  Agaricus,  and  over  1000  different  species  are 
known.  The  season  for  mushrooms  extends  from  spring  well  into  autumn.  They 
are  highly  nitrogenous  and  some  varieties  contain  much  fat  or  oil;  when  dried 
about  %  their  weight  is  nitrogenous.  They  are  admirably  adapted  for  human  con- 
sumption, no  other  class  of  vegetables  containing  in  a  higher  degree  the  elements 
needed  for  nutrition.  Many  people  are  prejudiced  against  their  use  because  there 
are  so  many  poisonous  varieties,  and  the  inexperienced  cannot  readily  distinguish 
between  them.  It  is  probable  that  in  the  future  they  will  become  a  more  import- 
ant article  of  food  than  at  present.  The  fresh  are  better  than  the  canned,  but  it  is 
better  in  gathering  them  to  be  guided  by  some  one  who  unerringly  knows  the  edi- 
ble varieties,  than  to  trust  to  any  written  description.  Any  mushroom  having 
an  offensive  smell,  or  a  bitter,  astringent,  or  even  unpleasant  flavor,  is  unfit  for 
food. 

OKKA. 

BOILED. — Use  only  that  which  is  young  and  tender;  wash  care- 
fully, so  as  not  to  break  the  skins  for  the  mucilage  to  escape.  After 
washing,  take  off  the  stems  and  boil  until  quite  soft,  in  water  con- 
taining a  little  salt.  When  done,  drain  in  the  colander,  place  in  the 
dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  sent  to  the  table,  season  with  pepper  and  a 
little  more  salt;  then  pour  over  it  butter  sauce,  or  hot  cream.  Cook 
okra  in  porcelain  lined  or  tin  vessels,  as  iron  colors  it  black.  Time 
to  boil,  1  hour  or  more. 

The  Okra  is  a  species  of  manow  (the  Hibiscus  esculentus)  possessing  mucilagen- 
ous  seed  pods  which  are  valuable  for  soups  and  stews.  The  dishes  thus  formed  are 
healthful  and  nutritious,  and  are  quite  popular  in  the  South  and  in  France.  The 
ripe  seeds  are  sometimes  used  to  adulterate  coffee,  and  form  one  of  its  least  ob- 
jectionable adulterations.  Use  the  pods  when  young  and  tender;  when  over  3 
inches  long,  they  become  tough  and  stringy. 


VEGETABLES  237 

ONIONS. 

Onions,  as  has  been  said  elsewhere,  should  not  be  cooked  with 
other  vegetables,  nor  should  the  kettle  in  which  they  are  cooked  be 
used  for  other  foods,  as  the  odor  of  the  onions  clings  tenaciously  to 
the  kettle  for  a  long  time  after  using  it  for  that  vegetable.  So  many 
people  dislike  onions,  and  others  who  like  them  do  not  eat  them  for 
other  reasons,  that  great  care  should  be  taken  in  this  respect. 
Remember  the  caution  about  using  them  in  soups,  when  you  are  not 
sure  of  the  tastes  of  the  partakers ;  boil  the  onions  separately,  in  the 
oniowkettle,  and  add  them,  at  the  time  of  serving,  to  the  soup  of 
those  who  like  them. 

When  peeling  and  slicing  onions,  hold  the  hands  under  water 
and  they  will  not  then  affect  the  eyes.  After  peeling  onions  the 
smell  may  be  taken  from  the  hands  by  rubbing  them  with  celery. 

It  is  said  that  after  eating  onions,  the  odor  may  be  overcome  by 
eating  a  little  parsley. 

Onions,  carrots  and  turnips  should  be  cut  across  the  fibre  in 
rings,  instead  of  being  split  the  other  way,  as  they  will  then  cook 
tender  more  quickly.  The  rank  flavor  of  onions  may  be  relieved  by 
soaking  them  for  an  hour  before  cooking,  in  warm  salt  water. 

PLAIN,  BOILED  ONIONS — Pour  on  boiling  water,  and  take 
off  the  skins  (use  those  of  medium  size,  as  the  largest  ones  can  be 
sliced  for  frying,  and  the  smallest  can  be  used  for  soups,  if  liked). 
Boil  them  in  salted  water,  changing  it  once  or  twice  during  the 
process;  when  done  soft,  take  them  out  with  a  fork,  or  drain  them, 
put  in  a  vegetable  dish,  sprinkle  on  salt,  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter, 
which  will  be  melted  by  the  heat  of  the  onions,  and  serve.  Time  to 
boil,  about  |  hour. 

ONIONS  A  LA  BORDEAUX.— Parboil  medium  sized  onions, 
then  drain  the  water  from  them;  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  a  little  salt,  and  use  stock,  gravy  or  water,  to  moisten 
them;  simmer  them  until  tender,  and  the  sauce  is  reduced;  add  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

ONIONS  WITH  CREAM.— Skin  the  onions  and  cut  them  in 
small  pieces  and  put  them  into  a  sauce^pan  with  a  piece  of  butter 
and  a  little  water,  and  let  them  cook  thoroughly.  Strain  them  and 
put  them  back  into  the  sauce-pan,  with  a  piece  of  butter;  when  this 
is  melted,  stir  in  a  little  flour,  pepper  and  salt,  and  just  before  serv- 
ing, a  small  quantity  of  cream.  When  this  is  added,  the  sauce  must 
on  no  account  be  allowed  to  reach  boiling  point.  Milk  can  be  used 
in  place  of  cream.     Time,  altogether,  about  ^^  hour. 


238  VEGETABLES 

ESCALLOPED  ONIONS — Boil  the  onions  till  quite  soft,  chang- 
ing the  water  twice.  Butter  a  deep  baking=dish,  and  put  in  a  layer 
of  onions  just  pulled  apart  in  bits,  but  not  chopped;  season  with  bits 
of  butter  and  a  little  salt;  then  add  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  or 
crushed  crackers,  season  to  taste,  and  moisten  with  milk.  Then  put 
in  alternate  layers  of  onions  and  crumbs,  seasoning  each  layer,  till 
the  dish  is  full;  finish  with  the  bread  crumbs.  Moisten  the  last  layer 
very  thoroughly  with  milk;  bake  |  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 

Escalloped,  No.  2. — Lay  an  onion,  sliced,  and  fried  brown  in  but- 
ter, in  the  bottom  of  a  baking=dish;  put  a  layer  of  cold  boiled  rice 
next,  well  moistened  with  an  equal  quantity  of  stewed  tomatoes,  and 
cover  the  whole  with  a  layer  of  crumbs,  wet  with  milk.  Set  in  the 
oven  till  heated  through  and  brown  on  top.  The  rice  and  tomatoes 
should  be  previously  seasoned. 

FRIED  ONIONS — If  the  onions  are  large,  cut  them  in  quarters 
first,  then  across  in  small  pieces.  The  small  ones  may  be  cut  in 
rings;  put  them  in  a  spider,  with  a  little  dripping,  or  salt  pork  fat,  to 
keep  them  from  sticking;  cover  for  10  minutes,  to  partly  stew  them, 
then  uncover  and  stir  them  until  they  are  a  nice  yellowish  brown. 
Butter  may  be  used  in  frying  onions,  if  preferred,  but  anything  fried 
with  butter  must  be  closely  watched,  as  it  is  more  apt  than  other  fat 
to  scorch. 

SPANISH  ONIONS,  FRIED.— Heat  2  tablespoons  butter  in  the 
frying=pan  till  smoking  hot;  put  in  2  lbs.  Spanish  onions,  peeled  and 
sliced,  add  1  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  and  a  little  black  pep, 
per;  cook  until  tender,  stirring  constantly;  then  serve  on  toast 
Pour  over  them  the  gravy  they  form  in  cooking. 

The  onion  belongs  to  the  natural  order  Allium,  which  includes  also  the  leek, 
garlic  and  shallot.  It  is  supposed  to  be  a  native  of  India,  or  Egypt,  in  both  of 
which  it  has  been  grown  from  very  early  times.  In  Egypt,  it  was  an  object  of 
worship.  Of  all  the  flavoring  substances  used  in  cookery,  it  is  the  most  valuable, 
next  to  salt.  The  onion  possesses  strong  irritant  and  excitant  properties,  and  ie 
diuretic,  expectorant  and  stimulating.  It  is  believed  to  promote  sleep,  and  1h 
usually  considered  very  nutritious,  but  opinions  differ  on  this  point.  They  are  not 
suited  to  all  stomachs,  and  some  cannot  eat  them  fried  or  roasted,  while  others 
prefer  them  boiled,  by  which  process  they  are  deprived  of  their  essential  oil 
Some  authorities  claim  for  them  medicinal  qualities  of  a  high  order,  and  advise 
their  more  general  use.  The  strong  smell  comes  from  a  volatile  oil,  rich  in 
sulphur. 

Sj)anish  Onions  are  large,  white,  and  delicate  in  odor  and  flavor.  They  can  be 
used  to  flavor  other  vegetables,  or  used  as  a  salad  when  cut  in  thin  shavings. 
They  can  also  be  baked,  boiled  or  fried,  and  served  as  a  vegetable. 

PARSNIPS. 

BOILED — Wash  and  scrub  well,  and  boil  until  tender  in  salted 


VEGETABLES  239 

water;  tlien  put  them  into  cold  water  and  the  skins  will  easily  rub 
off.  Then  cut  them  up  and  serve  in  a  bechamel  or  white  sauce, 
letting  them  steep  in  it  a  little  while  before  serving.  Time  to  hoil, 
if  small,  ^  to  1  hour;  if  large  1  to  1|  hours, 

PARSNIP  BALLS.— Boil  as  above  and  take  off  the  skins;  then 
mash  smooth,  removing  any  tough  fibre;  add  salt,  pepper,  a  little 
flour,  and  well-beaten  egg;  form  into  balls,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot 
fat. 

FRIED  PARSNIPS. — Boil  and  skin  as  above;  when  cold,  slice 
them  and  saute  in  butter  or  salt  pork  fat.  Season  with  salt  and  Dep- 
per,  and  serve  hot. 

STEWED  PARSNIPS — Wash  and  scrape  them  clean,  then  cut 
them  in  little  pieces  about  ^  an  inch  square,  put  them  in  a  kettle 
with  just  sufficient  water  to  cover  them,  with  a  trifle  of  salt  and  a  lit- 
tle pepper.  When  they  are  done,  take  off  the  cover,  and  let  the 
water  they  were  boiled  in  evaporate,  so  that  there  will  be  none  to 
turn  off,  and  they  will  brown  a  little;  do  not  stir  them  until  you 
take  them  up;  then  add  a  generous  piece  of  butter  (remember  the 
old  adage,  "Fine  words  butter  no  parsnips");  stir  lightly  with  a 
fork,  take  them  up  into  a  hot  vegetable  dish,  and 
send  to  the  table. 

Parsnips  are  a  native  of  England,  and  are  found  in 
many  parts  of  Europe  and  northern  Asia.  There  are 
several  varieties  in  cultivation.  They  are  wholesome  and 
more  nutritious  than  either  the  carrot  or  the  turnip.  Pars- 
nips are  sweetish  in  taste,  and  are  a  particularly  useful 
vegetable  in  spring,  when  a  change  of  diet  is  desirable 
and  fresh  vegetables  are  scarce.  They  contain  a  little 
gluten,  and  a  small  percentage  of  starch  and  sugar.  They 
go  well  with  corned  beef  and  salt  fish.  Although  they 
are  left  in  the  ground  during  the  winter,  they  should  be 
dug  as  soon  as  the  frost  is  out  of  the  ground,  and  before 
the  tops  start  to  grow,  as  that  detracts  from  their  sweet- 
ness. ^^«o„ii. 

PEAS. 

Young  green  peas  should  be  washed  in  the  pods,  then  shelled; 
then  put  the  pods  in  a  little  soft  water  and  boil  about  10  minutes, 
as  these  pods  are  sweet,  and  full  of  flavor  which  is  worth  saving; 
then  skim  them  out,  put  in  the  peas,  and  boil  about  ^  hour,  or  until 
tender,  adding  a  little  salt  when  almost  done.  Do  not  drain  off  the 
water  they  were  cooked  in,  but  serve  with  the  peas.  When  done,  add 
a  little  butter,  and  salt  if  needed.  A  little  sugar  will  be  an  improve- 
ment, and  cream  if  you  have  it. 

Green  peas  are  nice  cooked  in  a  steamer  without  water;  then 
salted,  and  cream  poured  over  them. 


240 


VEGETABLES 


If  dried  peas  are  boiled  until  very  soft,  mashed  and  passed 
through  a  sieve,  then  seasoned  and  served,  it  will  divest  them  of 
their  indigestible  outer  coat,  and  it  is  really  the  best  way  to  serve 
them.  This  applies  also  to  beans.  These  pulses  are  among  the 
most  nutritious  of  food,  but  the  outer  skin  is  almost  indigestible  ceL 
lulose  and  is  best  gotten  rid  of  as  far  as  possible.  Time  to  boil  peas, 
about  I  to  1  hour,  according  to  age  and  condition. 

The'  water  in  which  peas  are  boiled 
should  not  be  thrown  away.  If  to  this,  as 
it  comes  from  the  kettle,  is  added  a  little 
stock,  or  some  good  meat  extract,  a  deli- 
cious soup  is  at  once  produced,  requiring 
nothing  more  than  ordinary  seasoning. 

Peas  have  been  cultivated  in  the  East  from 
time  immemorial,  and  were  introduced  into  Europe 
very  early  in  the  middle  ages.  When  eaten  young, 
they  are  wholesome  and  digestible,  and  being  richer 
in  phosphates  than  most  other  vegetables,  they  are 
more  adapted  to  invalids;  but  when  older  they  are 
more  indigestible.  Split  peas  have  the  tough  envel- 
ope removed. 

Green  peas  are  more  digestible  but  less  nour- 
ishing than  dried,  which  require  prolonged  boiling 
to  make  them  digestible.  Dried  peas  should  always 
be  boiled  in  soft  water,  for  the  longer  they  are  boiled 
they  become.  A  little  bicarbonate  of  soda,  (cooking  soda)  may  be  added  to  the 
water  in  which  dried  peas  and  beans  are  cooked,  as  this  assists  in  softening 
the  legumen.  It  may  also  be  added  to  stale  green  peas,  but  it  impairs  the  color  of 
fresh,  tender,  green  peas  and  beans,  and  is  not  needed  for  softening  purposes. 

PARSLEY. 

FRIED. — See  that  the  parsley  is  dry,  dip  it  in  smoking  hot  fat 
1  minute,  drain  on  paper,  sprinkle  on  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. 

The  Pabsley  is  a  hardy  biennial  plant,  a  native  of 
Eastern  Europe.  There  are  several  varieties,  the  Ham- 
burg parsley  being  grown  for  the  sake  of  its  roots  which 
are  eaten  like  parsnips.  The  leaves  of  parsley  are  nutri- 
tious and  stimulating,  and  are  used  as  a  flavoring  for 
soups,  etc.,  as  well  as  for  garnishing  foods.  The  root  is 
diuretic.  The  fruit  (seed)  is  a  deadly  poison  to  many 
birds,  especially  jiarrots. 

To  keep  parsley  for  the  winter,  use  that  which  is  freshly 
gathered,  wash  it  free  from  grit  and  dirt,  and  put  it  into 
water  which  has  been  slightly  salted  and  well  skimmed, 
and  let  it  boil  a  or  3  minutes;  then  take  it  out,  drain,  and 
lay  it  on  a  sieve  before  the  fire  and  dry  as  quickly  as 
possible;  store  away  in  bottles  in  a  dry  place.  When 
wanted  for  use,  pour  a  little  warm  water  over  it  and  let 
litand  about  5  minutes. 

POTATOES. 

Probably  the  best  method  of  cooking  jjotatoes,  certainly  from 
September  to  June,  is  by  steaming  them  in  the  skins;   by  this  pro- 


PEA. 

hard  water,  the  harder 


**f*' 


VEGETABLES  241 

tjess  the  steam  penetrates  everywhere,  and  there  is  no  loss  ci  mate- 
rial or  salts.  If  the  skins  are  removed  before  boiling,  a  large  amount 
of  salts  will  be  lost.  Dr.  Letheby  estimates  the  loss  when  the  skins 
are  removed  at  14%,  and  when  not  removed  at  only  3%.  The 
addition  of  common  table  salt  to  the  water  is  advantageous,  as 
it  modifies  the  extraction  of  the  natural  salts,  and  improves  the 
flavor.  The  boiling  should  be  thorough,  so  that  the  starch  grains 
of  which  they  are  largely  composed,  may  swell  and  burst  the  walls 
of  cellulose,  which  confine  them;  too  often,  however,  the  potatoes 
are  spoiled  by  allowing  them  to  absorb  water,  and  so  become  sod- 
den after  this  stage  is  reached. 

Old  potatoes,  towards  the  end  of  the  season,  are  improved  by 
being  peeled  and  put  into  cold  water  over  night,  by  which  process 
they  regain  in  a  measure  their  natural  color  and  consistency. 

Put  potatoes,  into  cold  water  as  soon  as  peeled;  they  turn  dark  if 
left  exposed  to  the  air. 

Old  potatoes  are  rendered  more  digestible  by  being  finely 
mashed;  mash  them  very  thoroughly  indeed — you  will  hardly  over= 
do  it.  Roasted  potatoes  are  more  nutritious  than  boiled,  and  mealy 
potatoes  more  nutritious  than  those  which  are  waxy. 

Potatoes  are  spoiled  by  germination  or  growing  (which  exhausts 
the  starch)  and  by  frost;  severe  frost  invariably  kills  them,  so  that 
when  the  thaw  comes  the  process  of  putrification  almost  immediately 
sets  in.  The  sweetness  of  potatoes  which  have  been  frozen  and 
thawed,  arises  from  the  fact  that  the  starch  then  changes  to  sugar  on 
being  exposed  to  warmth  and  air."  Keep  them  frozen  until  wanted 
for  use,  then  thaw  by  letting  them  lie  in  cold  water,  and  use  at  once. 
Potatoes  after  being  frozen  decay  very  quickly,  because  in  freezing 
the  water  they  contain  bursts  the  cells.  They  can  be  jDut  on  to  bake 
without  being  thawed,  when  frozen. 

Whenever  the  starch  cells  are  intact,  ripe  potatoes  can  be 
cooked  so  that  they  will  be  mealy.  The  starch  cells  have  not  matured 
in  unrij)e  potatoes,  so  that  when  cooked  they  will  not  be  so  mealy, 
but  they  need  not  be  soggy.  When  potatoes  sx)rout,  the  process  of 
germination  ruptures  the  starch  cells  so  that  they  will  not  afterwards 
cook  as  mealy  as  before  sprouting.  If  sprouts  appear  they  should 
be  removed  or  killed  at  once,  as  they  exhaust  the  starch  as  they 
grow,  and  spoil  the  potato  for  food. 

TO  BOIL  POTATOES — Wash  them   very  thoroughly,  or  scrub 
them;  a  narrow  strip  cut  off  around  the  middle  will  allow  the  poi- 
sonous solanine  to  escape  more  readily;  put  them  into  boiling,  salted 
16 


242  VEGETABLES 

water,  and  boil  tliem  until  soft  (about  25  minutes)  varying  accord- 
ing to  variety  and  size.  The  thing  to  bear  in  mind  is  that  to  have 
potatoes  mealy  they  must  be  taken  out  of  the  water  as  soon  as  the 
starch  cells  are  cooked  enough  so  that  their  walls  are  ready  to  burst; 
if  drained  oflf  at  once,  the  superfluous  water  will  pass  off  as  steam, 
and  the  interior  will  be  dry  and  floury;  if  left  longer  they  will 
absorb  water  and  become  sodden;  therefore  as  soon  as  they  are  ten- 
der enough  to  pierce  readily  with  a  fork,  drain  them,  cover  with  a 
thick  cloth,  and  set  them  for  15  or  20  minutes  on  the  back  part 
of  the  range,  or  where  they  will  keep  hot  without  burning.  They 
can  be  kept  thus,  hot  and  dry,  for  several  hours  if  need  be,  and 
right  for  eating. 

BAKED  POTATOES — Select  potatoes  as  nearly  of  a  size  as 
possible,  wash  or  scrub  thoroughly  clean,  and  if  old,  let  them  stand 
for  2  hours  in  cold  water;  then  wipe  dry  (always  dry  potatoes  for 
baking)  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven;  it  will  take  from  f  to  1  hour.  It 
is  a  good  plan  to  prick  the  skin  before  putting  them  in  to  bake,  to 
allow  the  escape  of  the  steam  and  prevent  their  bursting;  if  not 
pricked,  break  the  skin  as  soon  as  they  are  done  to  allow  the 
steam  to  escape.  Never  cover  baked  potatoes  to  confine  the  steam, 
as  that  makes  them  soggy.  Potatoes  baked  until  just  done  are  best; 
baked  longer,  they  harden  near  the  skin,  lose  their  light,  mealy  char- 
acter, and  so  deteriorate.  Serve  while  hot.  Baked  potatoes  are 
the  most  wholesome,  because  none  of  the  nutrients  are  lost,  part  of 
the  starch  is  turned  to  sugar,  and  the  solanine  escapes  with  the 
steam. 

POTATO  BALLS. — Mix  2  teacups  mashed  potatoes,  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  2  well=beaten  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste; 
form  into  balls,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard,  or  drippings. 

BROILED  POTATOES.— Cut  .whatever  you  may  have  of  cold 
boiled  potatoes  into  lengthwise  slices,  about  ^  inch  thick;  dip  each  in 
flour,  and  lay  them  between  an  oyster  broiler.  Have  the  fire  clear, 
and  when  both  sides  are  nicely  browned,  lay  the  slices  on  a  hot  dish, 
put  a  piece  of  butter  on  each  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  A 
very  delicate  dish. 

POTATO  CAKE — Boil  the  potatoes  till  they  are  soft  and  floury, 
dry  them,  and,  while  warm,  mash  them  thoroughly— this  is  usually 
done  with  the  hand;  then  mix  with  them  as  much  flour  as  will  bind 
the  potato  without  making  it  stiff,  add  salt,  and  roll  out  on  a  floured 
board,  and  shape  the  cake  or  cakes,  then  fry  in  boiling  bacon=fat. 


VEGETABLES  243 

Usually,  the  cake  is  rolled  to  about  |  inch  in  thickness,  molded  to 
the  shape  of  the  pan,  and  fried  whole.  Properly  made,  it  is  won- 
derfully light.  It  requires  some  art  in  turning  it.  This  is  managed 
by  heating  only  enough  fat  at  j5rst  to  fry  one  side,  then  dexterously 
turning  the  cake  on  to  a  plate,  and  when  sufficient  fat  is  boiling  for 
the  other  side,  sliding  it  into  the  pan  again. 

BOSTON  CHIPS. — After  paring  the  potatoes,  soak  them  1  hour 
in  cold  water;  then  cut  them  into  thin  slices,  lengthways  of  the 
potato;  after  this  do  not  wet  them  again.  Have  a  kettle  of  moder- 
ately hot  fat  ready;  put  the  chips  in  a  basket,  dip  them  in  the  fat, 
leave  a  moment,  lift  out,  dip  in  again,  lift  out  again,  and  then  put  in 
and  fry  until  they  turn  a  golden  brown;  then  lift  out,  put  them 
in  a  colander,  sprinkle  on  salt,  set  in  the  oven  a  minute,  and  serve. 

SARATOGA  POTATOES.— Shave  them  thin,  soak  in  cold  or  ice 
water  20  or  30  minutes,  drain  them,  dry  on  a  towel,  and  fry  in  boiling 
fat  to  a  light  brown;  when  done,  drop  them  on  blotting  or  unglazed 
paper  to  absorb  the  extra  fat;  sprinkle  on  salt  and  serve  hot.  Enough 
can  be  done  at  one  time,  if  desired,  for  several  meals;  they  keep 
well,  are  easily  warmed  over  by  setting  them  in  the  oven  a  few  min- 
utes, and  are  nearly  as  good  as  when  fresh. 

A  similar  method  is  to  cut  them  in  cubes,  instead  of  thin  strips. 
They  require  a  little  longer  frying,  but  are  nice  for  a  change,  and  are 
more  moist  and  digestible  than  chips. 

CREAMED  POTATOES.— Into  a  frying-pan  put  1  tablespoon 
butter;  as  soon  as  it  bubbles,  stir  in  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  1 
cup  of  hot  milk;  season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt;  then  put  in 
2  cups  cold  boiled  potatoes,  which  are  cut  into  small  cubes,  heat 
thoroughly  and  serve. 

POTATOES  WITH  CHEESE — Put  alternate  layers  of  thinly* 
sliced  cheese,  and  sliced  cold  potatoes  into  a  dish,  with  the  cheese 
on  top;  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  a  light  brown  in  a  slow  oven. 
Time,  about  |  hour. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES — Slice  small,  raw  potatoes  quite  thin. 
Butter  a  dish  well,  and  sprinkle  fine  bread  crumbs  on  the  bottom ; 
then  put  in  a  layer  of  sliced  potatoes  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  bits  of  butter.  Then  add  another  layer  of  crumbs,  and  so  alter- 
nately until  the  dish  is  full,  having  crumbs  on  top  with  a  good 
supply  of  butter.  Moisten  with  milk  and  a  little  cream,  if  it  is  to 
be  had,  and  bake  until  potatoes  are  creamy  and  nicely  browned  on 
top.  If  the  oven  is  very  hot,  it  is  well  to  cover  them  part  of  the 
time. 


244  VEGETABLES 

POTATOES  AND  EGGS.— Take  2  large  cups  of  cold,  well- 
mashed  iDotatoes,  and  -|  cup  melted  butter;  beat  together  until  light 
and  smooth,  and  add  2  welhbeaten  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  and  a  little  salt; 
beat  all  together,  put  into  a  deep  dish,  brown  in  a  quick  oven,  and 
serve  hot.     Time,  about  10  minutes. 

FRIED. — Peel  and  slice  cold  potatoes,  and  fry  first  one  side; 
then  turn  and  fry  the  other,  in  a  frying==x3an,  with  salt  pork  fat,  beef 
drippings  or  butter.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and.  always  send 
to  the  table  hot.  Raw  potatoes  can  be  fried  in  the  same  way.  They 
will  be  better  if  soaked  in  cold  water  after  being  peeled  and  sliced; 
the  water  will  take  out  the  starch  and  they  will  then  fry  more  crisp. 
The  French  usually  fry  them,  like  doughnuts,  in  smoking  hot  fat. 
Take  them  out  the  minute  they  are  browned,  drain  on  paper,  sea- 
son, and  serve  hot. 

POTATOES  WARMED  IN  GRAVY.— Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes 
in  the  chopping^bowl  (with  a  knife  they  are  never  cut  even,  some 
pieces  are  large,  while  others  are  almost  mashed);  after  the  potatoes 
are  pretty  fine,  put  a  piece  of  butter  in  the  fryingpan,  turn  in  the  po- 
tatoes, brown  slightly,  then  turn  in  gravy  (chicken  gravy  is  very 
nice),  and  stir  the  potatoes  carefully  with  a  fork,  so  as  not  to  mash 
Ihem,  until  the  gravy  is  very  hot.  Season  with  a  little  salt  and 
pepper. 

LVONNAISE  POTATOES.— Slice  6  cold  boiled  potatoes,  or  cut 
into  dice.  Put  a  little  butter  in  the  frying=pan,  j)ut  in  ^  onion  chopped 
fine,  and  fry  it  a  light  brown,  turning  them  without  breaking;  then 
stir  in  1  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley,  and  serve  hot.  A  few  drops 
of  vinegar  added  with  the  onion,  improves  the  flavor. 

MASHED  POTATOES — Pare  and  boil  them  in  slightly  salted 
water;  when  done,  drain  off  the  water,  and  mash  them  in  the  kettle 
with  a  wire  masher;  add  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt  to  10  potatoes,  and  a 
little  cream,  or,  if  one  has  no  cream,  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  hot 
water;  mash  and  beat  against  the  side  of  the  kettle,  until  they  are 
creamy — you  can  hardly  mash  too  much;  keep  them  hot  in  the  ket- 
tle until  ready  to  serve.  Pour  hot  water  in  the  vegetable  dish  to 
warm  it,  pile  the  potato  in  the  dish,  put  dots  of  black  pepper  over  it, 
and  send  it  to  the  table. 

POTATOES  A  LA  MAITRE  D'HOTEL— Cut  cold  boiled  pota- 
toes in  small  squares,  the  size  of  dice,  and  put  them  over  the  fire  in 
a  stew=pan,  with  butter  or  cream,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.      Let 


VEGETABLES  245 

them  get  hot,  shaking  the  pan  to  keep  them  from  burning,  and  serve 
them  in  a  hot  dish  that  has  been  rubbed  with  a  raw  onion. 

POTATO  PUFF — To  2  cups  of  mashed  potatoes,  add  2  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter,  and  beat  until  light;  then  mix  in  it  2  eggs, 
well  beaten,  a  cup  of  milk,  and  salt  to  taste.  Beat  together  thorough- 
ly, and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish  in  a  quick  oven  until  nicely 
browned.     A  fine  breakfast  dish. 

PUFFED  POTATOES. — Cut  peeled  raw  potatoes  in  thin  slices, 
and  fry  in  a  kettle  of  hot  fat;  stir  with  a  fork  to  prevent  their  stick- 
ing together.  When  they  are  soft,  take  them  out  with  a  skimmer 
and  let  them  drain  on  a  sieve  until  cool;  then  return  to  the  hot  fat 
and  fry  4  minutes  longer;  the  second  frying  causes  the  slices  to  puff 
and  become  hollow.     Sprinkle  them  with  salt  and  serve. 

POTATO  STEW, — Take  6  or  8  large  potatoes,  peel  and  slice 
thin;  cut  3  thick  slices  of  salt  pork  into  little  squares,  and  put  into 
the  bottom  of  the  soup^kettle;  fry  thoroughly,  then  add  the  potatoes, 
with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sage,  if  liked,  and  1  large  tomato  peeled 
and  sliced;  cover  with  water  and  closely  cover  the  kettle.  Cook 
until  the  potatoes  begin  to  break  in  pieces.     Cheap  and  good. 

QUIRLED  POTATOES. — Peel,  boil,  season  and  mash  potatoes; 
put  them  through  a  colander  into  the  dish  in  which  you  wish  to 
serve  them,  set  in  a  hot  oven  and  brown. 

SALTED  POTATOES — Make  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  water; 
clean  but  do  not  cut,  smooth,  medium  sized  potatoes;  when  the  brine 
is  boiling  hot  put  in  the  potatoes  and  boil  until  tender.  Serve  with 
the  jackets  on,  with  good  butter.     Nice  and  new. 

STUFFED  POTATOES — Choose  12  good^sized  potatoes,  wash 
them,  and  scrub  the  skins  with  a  brush;  bake  them  until  done — 
about  1  hour.  Kemove  them  from  the  oven,  cut  a  slice  off  one  end 
of  each,  scrape  out  the  potato,  mix  it  lightly  with  a  small  piece  of 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  replace  it  in  the  skin,  and,  when  all  are 
done,  return  them  to  the  oven  for  10  minutes.  In  serving,  cut  a  slice 
off  the  other  end  to  make  them  stand  upright  on  a  flat  dish,  leaving 
the  toj)  uncovered.  A  little  cooked  meat  can  be  mixed  in  before 
replacing  the  potato  in  the  skin,  if  desired. 

POTATO  TURNOVERS.— Have  some  cold  roast  beef,  or  veal 
and  ham  mixed,  and  cut  very  fine.  Take  hot  mashed  potatoes  and 
make  into  a  paste  with  1  or  2  eggs,  according  to  quantity.  You 
should  have  twice  as  much  potato  as  meat.      Roll  the  jDotato  out, 


246  VEGETABLES 

dredging  with  flour.  Cut  this  round,  about  the  size  of  a  small 
saucer.  On  one  half  put  the  chopped  meat,  fold  the  other  half  over 
and  fry  a  light  brown. 

WARMED  OVER  POTATOES — (1)  Slice  up  cold  potatoes, 
fry  in  a  little  butter,  lard,  or  nice  drippings,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  fry  a  nice  brown,  and  just  before  serving  pour  in  a  little 
cream  or  milk;  toss  about  for  a  few  minutes.  Serve  very  hot.  Or, 
(2)  grate  them  into  the  dish  they  are  to  be  served  in,  dot  with 
butter,  sprinkle  on  salt,  and  bake  about  5  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 
Or,  (8)  cut  into  dice,  put  into  a  dish,  add  a  little  milk,  butter  and 
salt,  and  heat  in  the  oven.     Never  waste  any  potato  left  over. 

The  potato  is  a  native  of  America.  It  was  introduced  into  England  in  the 
sixteenth  century,  but  it  was  nearly  100  years  before  it  was  cultivated  to  any  ex- 
tent. As  food,  it  ranks  next  in  value  to  the  cereals,  but  it  is  not  as  cheap  and 
desirable  a  food  in  itself  as  is  often  supposed,  since  it  does  not  contain  the  neces- 
sary food  elements  in  right  proportions  for  a  steady  diet.  It  is  best  eaten  as  an 
addition  to  pulses,  lean  meat,  and  other  nitrogenous  food. 

Potatoes  consist  mainly  of  starch  and  water,  about  19>%  being  water;  starch  18^, 
and  fibrin  and  albumen  2%.  Young  new  potatoes  are  more  indigestible  than  old 
ones.  In  a  floury  and  mealy  state  they  are  easily  digested,  but  when  close  and 
waxy  they  are  not.  They  possess  slightly  laxative  qualities.  The  waste  in  boiling 
is  much  less  when  they  are  boiled  in  their  skins,  because  that  is  of  a  cork=like  sub- 
stance partly  impervious  to  water. 

There  is  considerable  waste  in  peeling  potatoes  because  the  most  albuminous 
part  lies  immediately  under  the  skin.  In  and  near  the  skin  itself,  is  a  poisonous 
acid  juice,  called  solanine,  but  that  is  destroyed  or  dissipated  when  the  potatoes 
are  cooked.  It  is  this  poisonous  acid  which  causes  the  disagreeable  smell  and 
taste  of  the  water  in  which  potatoes  have  been  boiled,  and  it  makes  the  water  unfit 
for  use. 

SWEET  POTATOES. 
TO  BOIL. — Select  those  of  an  even  size,  wash  x^erfectly  clean, 
and  boil  until  tender;  then  peel,  cut  them  in  two  lengthwise,  and 
place  them  on  a  buttered  tin  in  the  oven  to  brown;  in  this  way  the 
skins  are  disposed  of  before  sending  them  to  the  table.  It  takes 
longer  to  cook  sweet  potatoes  than  the  common  ones.  The  time  is 
about  f  to  1  hour. 

BAKED — Wash  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes  and  i^lace  on  the 
top  grate  of  a  hot  oven;  when  the  potatoes  are  about  half  done,  pierce 
them  with  a  fork  to  let  the  steam  escape ;  this  will  make  them  dry  and 
mealy. 

BROILED — Boil,  let  cool,  and  peel  the  number  of  large,  sweet 
potatoes  required.  Slit  them  in  2  or  3  slices,  dip  in  melted  butter, 
and  place  them  in  a  double  gridiron.  Broil  a  light  brown  on  both 
sides,  dish  them  up,  and  after  j)ouring  some  melted  butter  over  the 
potatoes,  they  may  be  served. 

FRIED — Peel  the  raw  potato,  cut  it  into  very  thin,  lengthwise 
strips,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat»  deep  enough  to  immerse  them  in; 


VEGETABLES  247 

as  they  rise  to  the  top  and  brown  on  one  side,  turn  them  and  let 
them  brown  on  the  other.     Nice,  and  new  in  the  north. 

SWEET  POTATOES  AND  PORK.— Select  white  looking  fresh 
pork — rib  pieces;  cut  them  thin  and  free  from  fat  and  bone;  fry  them 
carefully,  and  cook  thoroughly  until  nicely  browned;  then  place  on  a 
warm  platter;  cut  boiled  sweet  potatoes  in  slices  lengthways,  and  fry 
until  brown  in  the  fat  in  the  spider;  use  care  not  to  burn  them;  salt 
them  as  they  cook;  then  arrange  on  the  platter  around  the  meat; 
serve  very  hot,  with  apple-sauce  and  hot  johnny-cake. 

SUGARED  SWEET  POTATOES— Boil  those  of  medium  size, 
dry  off  in  the  oven,  peel,  let  them  get  cold,  and  then  cut  in  two  length- 
wise; then  lay  each  half  on  its  round  side 
in  a  shallow  pan  or  dripping-pan,  put  a 
good  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  on  each  one,  sift  granulated 
sugar  generously  over  all,  and  put  in  a 
quick  oven  to  brown;  it  takes  about  40 
minutes.     Excellent  and  new. 

The  sweet  potato  is  probably  of  American  ori-  sweet   potato. 

gin,  though  now  extensively    cultivated    in    many 

countries.  It  belongs  to  the  Convolvulus  order.  It  contains  more  sugar  than  the 
true  potato.  Its  constituent  parts  are,  water  71  parts;  albumen,  1}£;  starch,  15; 
sugar,  3;  pectose  gum  and  cellulose,  5;  mineral  matter,  1. 

PUMPKINS. 

PUMPKIN  BUTTER — Peel  and  cut  enough  pumpkin  to  fill  a 
large  iron  or  porcelain  kettle.  Select  the  sweetest  pumpkins,  as  you 
would  for  pies.  Stew  4  or  5  hours,  until  it  is  a  rich  golden  brown 
color,  and  dried  to  a  thick  paste.  It  must  be  frequently  stirred  at 
last,  to  prevent  burning.  This  sauce  is  especially  good,  served  with 
pork,  either  salt  or  fresh. 

Pumpkins  for  winter  can  be  stewed  and  canned  like  fruit,  and  will 
then  nearly  equal  fresh  pumpkins. 

Pumpkins  are  a  species  of  gourd.  They  were  formerly  more  used  for  food 
than  at  present,  having  been  somewhat  supplanted  by  the  squash.  They  possess 
one  peculiar  quality — that  of  absorbing  and  retaining  the  flavor  of  whatever  they 
are  cooked  with.  If  stewed  with  apples  they  taste  exactly  like  them  in  puddings 
and  tarts,  and  they  may  be  used  to  advantage  in  most  savory  cookery.  They  con- 
tain about  1%  of  sugar,  2  to  5^  of  starch,  and  about  1%  of  fat  and  nitrogenous  mat- 
ter. An  anonymous  writer  in  the  early  settlement  of  America  wrote  home  to  Eng- 
land as  foUows: 

"  If  fresh  meat  be  wanting  to  fill  up  our  dish. 
We  have  carrots,  and  pumpkins,  cind  turnips  and  fish, 
We  have  pumpkins  at  morning,  and  pumpkins  at  noon, 
And  i-£  '■t'sete  not  for  pumpkins  we  should  be  undone." 


248  VEGETABLES 

RICE. 

BOILED Pick  over  carefully,  and  wash  at  least  twice,  in  cold 

water,  washing  it  thoroughly  clean,  and  drain.  Then  put  the  rice 
into  plenty  of  well  salted  boiling  water,  and  make  it  boil  actively  so 
that  the  water  will  bubble  and  toss  the  rice  around;  cook  it  till 
tender,  hut  no  longer,  for  if  the  grains  burst  they  will  surely  stick 
together;  test  it  often  by  squeezing  a  grain  between  the  fingers;  if 
it  flattens  easily  it  is  ready  to  drain;  it  should  cook  in  15  to  20 
minutes,  according  to  the  age  of  the  rice.  When  soft,  drain  oif  the 
water,  remove  the  rice,  and  set  it  at  the  back  of  the  stove  to  dry 
about  ^  hour.  If  you  stir  it  while  cooking,  use  a  fork  instead  of 
a  spoon,  as  that  separates  the  grains.  Cooked  thus  each  grain  will 
be  distinct,  and  separate.  Unless  the  water  is  used  for  soup,  boil- 
ing rice  is  less  desirable  than  steaming  it,  because  so  much  of  its 
nutrients  are  dissolved  out  and  thrown  away  in  the  water. 

BAKED. — Take  some  cold  boiled  rice,  add  1  or  2  wellbeaten 
eggs,  some  grated  cheese,  some  finely  chopped  boiled  ham,  and  a 
little  melted  butter;  put  it  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  grated  cheese 
on  top,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven  until  a  broom  straw,  when  thrust 
into  the  middle,  will  come  out  clean, 

STEAMED — Pick  over  the  rice  and  wash  it  thoroughly  in  cold 
water;  put  it  in  a  farina  boiler,  with  |  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  pint  of 
boiling  water  to  each  cup  of  rice;  cover,  and  cook  till  soft  (about 
^  hour);  then  remove  the  cover  and  let  it  dry  off,  stirring  it  with  a 
fork  to  facilitate  the  escape  of  the  steam  and  keejp  the  grains  sci:»- 
arate.  If  you  have  no  double  boiler  it  can  be  put  in  a 
tin  xoail   and  steamed  in  the  steamer.      Stock   or  milk  .'jj  / 

can  be  used  instead  of  water,  if  desired,  but  use  a  little 
more. 

RICE  WITH  CHEESE — Steam  some  rice  in  either 
water  or  milk;  then  mix  in  some  grated  cheese,  pepper 
and  salt;  put  the  mixture  in  a  pie=disli  or  tin,  shake 
some  grated  cheese  on  top,  and  bake  until  nicely 
browned.  The  mixture  must  be  fairly  moist  befere  it 
is  baked,  or  it  will  get  dry. 

Rice  appears  to"  be  a  native  of  the  East  Indies,  and  it  has 
formed  the  princiiDal  food  of  the  Indian  and  Chinese  people  from 
remote  antiquity.  It  is  now  cultivated  in  every  country  where  the 
climate  is  suitable.     It  contains  about  75^  of  starch,  and  because  kice. 

it  has  little  fat  or  albumen,  it  is  not  fit  for  a  sole  article  of  diet.    In 
nourishing  properties  it  is  greatly  inferior  to  wheat,  but  it  is  a  light  and  whole., 
some  food,  and   is  well   adapted  for  invalids.     As  it   has  little    of  the   heat   pro- 
ducing elements,  it  is  suitable  for  the  inhabitants    of  hot  climates.     It  goes  well 
with  meat  and  other  articles  rich  in  albumenoids. 


VEGETABLES  249 

SALSIFY  OR  VEGETABLE  OYSTER. 

Scrape  the  roots  clean,  and  keexD  them  covered  with  cold  water 
containing  a  little  vinegar,  until  time  to  cook,  as  exposure  to  the  air 
will  blacken  them.  Then  boil  till  tender,  in  salted  water — about  1 
hour.  After  boiling  thus,  it  can  be  mashed,  the  fibres  picked  out, 
salted  to  taste,  butter  worked  in,  and  served  in  a  warm  vegetable 
dish.  Or,  after  boiling,  they  can  be  drained,  sliced,  dipped  in  frit- 
ter batter,  and  fried  in  smoking  hot  fat;  or  egg  and  bread- crumbed, 
and  then  fried.  Or  the  slices  can  be  saut6d  in  a  frying-pan,  with 
butter  or  salt  pork  fat. 

CREAMED  SALSIFY — Wash  it,  scrape,  cut  into  slices  |  inch 
thick,  boil  till  tender  in  a  sauce-pan;  then  turn  off  most  of  the  liquor, 
add  milk  or  cream,  and  salt  to  taste,  and  boil  5 
to  10  minutes   longer;  thicken   the  liquor  with 
rice   flour   or  other  thickening,   and   serve   hot. 
If  milk  is  used  add  a  large  lump  of  butter. 

ESCALLOPED    SALSIFY Boil,    mash    it, 

moisten  with  milk,  add  butter,  salt  and  pepper 

to  season,  put  it  in  a    baking-pan,   cover   with 

dry  'crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  7 

or  8  minutes.  salsify. 

Salsify  (also  called  vegetable  oyster)  belongs  to  the  natural  order  Composifce, 
the  same  order  to  which  lettuce  and  chicory  belong.  It  is  the  root  which  is  used, 
which  is  shaped  somewhat  like  the  common  carrot.  As  a  rule,  members  of  this 
order  are  tonic  or  stimulant  in  their  medicinal  qualities. 

SEA^KALE. 

BOILED. — Wash  the  kale  thoroughly  and  examine  it  for  insects; 
tie  it  in  bunches  like  asparagus,  and  boil  about  ^ 
hour,  or  until  tender,  in  water  containing  a  trifle  of 
salt;  when  done,  drain  thoroughly  on  a  cloth,  untie 
the  bundle,  and  spread  the  kale  on  slices  of  toasted 
bread;  then  pour  over  it  hot  butter  sauce. 


Seaskale  resembles  asparagus,  and  belongs  to  the  same  tribe. 
It  is  easily  cultivated.  It  is  so  light  that  the  most  delicate  or- 
ganizations may  readily  eat  it,  and  it  is  nutritious,  stimulating 
to  the  appetite,  and  easily  digested.  It  usually  contains  no 
sugar,  but  some  mucilage  and  starch,  the  percentage  being, 
starch  and  mucilage,  3;  cellulose,  1;  albumen  2A;  mineral  matter, 
0.6,  and  water,  93.  sea  kale. 

SooTOH  Kale. — This  has  a  fine  head  of  curly  leaves;  the  ten- 
derest    are   used  as  greens,    and    are    pre])ared  in  the  same  manner  as  dandelions 
and  other  greens.     This  herb  may  be  planted  late,  like  late  turnips,  and  is  in  sea- 
son, if  planted  early,  from  midsummer  to  late   fall;   it  may   be  picked  green  and 
fresh,  even  after  the  ground  is  covered  with  snow. 

RADISHES. 

These  are  washed  and  scraped,  and  to  keep  them  fresh  looking 


250  VEGETABLES 

are  placed  on  the  table  in  glasses  containing  a  little  water.     All  vari- 
eties are  served  in  the  same  way. 

There  are  many  varieties  of  the  radish,  and  they  are  supposed  to  possess  some 
power  in  stimulating  the  appetite.  The  radish  is  demulcent,  stimulating  ana 
diuretic,  but  it  is  not    suitable  for  those  with  weak  digestive  powers. 

SAUERKROUT. 
TO  MAKE — Choose  firm,  white  cabbage  heads  and  remove  the 
coarse  outer  leaves,  and  the  large  fibres  of  the  back  of  the  white 
leaves;  chop  coarsely,  and  for  about  30  medium^sized  heads,  allow  | 
lb.  of  salt  and  mix  it  well  with  the  chopped  cabbage;  cover  the  bot- 
tom of  a  small  oak  barrel  or  cask  with  cabbage  leaves,  and  press 
the  cabbage  firmly  into  the  barrel,  or  pound  it  down  with  a  wooden 
pestle.  When  all  the  cabbage  is  firmly  packed,  cover  with  cabbage 
leaves  and  a  cloth,  then  have  a  round  cover  that  goes  into  the  barrel, 
press  it  down  firmly  and  put  a  stone  on  that  to  keep  it  in  place. 
As  soon  as  it  begins  to  ferment  (and  you  will  know  it  by  the  odor) 
place  the  barrel  in  a  cold  cellar  or  storehouse,  where  it  will  not 
freeze.     Made  in  October,  it  is  ready  to  cook  in  February. 

TO  COOK — To  cook  sauerkrout,  take  it  from  the  barrel,  and  if 
very  sour  it  can  be  washed  in  a  plenty  of  water  and  drained  dry  in 
the  colander;  put  butter,  dripping  or  salt  pork  fat  in  the  frying=pan, 
add  a  sliced  onion,  if  liked,  put  a  few  spoonfuls  of  water  in  the  pan 
with  the  krout;  cover  with  a  plate  and  stew  slowly  for  an  hour;  then 
stir  it  well  before  taking  up.  It  is  eaten  with  a  little  pepper  and 
vinegar,  or  with  sour  baked  apples. 

SPINACH. 

BOILED. — Wash  it  many  times  in  cold  water  to  thoroughly  and 
perfectly  free  it  from  sand  and  dust.     Then  put  in  a  close  sauce=pan, 
without  a  drop  of  water,  over  a  moderate  fire ;  cover  closely,  and  cook 
till  tender — about  ^  hour.     Its  own  juice  runs   out, 
and  it  cooks  in  that.     Spinach  should  be  one  of  the 
most  healthful  of  springtime  vegetables,  but  its  most 
valuable  elements  are  its  mineral  matters  or  potash 
salts,  and  by  the  old  method  of  cooking  they  are  al- 
most  entirely  lost.       The   above   method    preserves 
them.     When  done,  drain,  chop  fine,  and  season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt;  or  pour  over  a  cream  sauce. 
Serve  with  slices  of  hard=boiled  egg  over  it. 

Spinach  is  supposed  to  be  a  native  of  Western   Arabia.     It  spinach. 

was  not  known  to  the  ancients,  but  was   introduced  into  Europe 
some  400  years  ago.     It  is  laxative,  cooling,  wholesome,  and  easily  digested,  but 
does  not  afford  much  nutriment. 


VEGETABLES  251 

SQUASH. 

SUMMER  SQVASn.— Boiled.— They  must  be  so  young  that  the 
thumb  nail  will  strike  through  the  shell.  Wash  and  quarter  or  slice 
them  (you  need  not  remove  the  skin  or  seeds);  then  boil  till  tender 
in  slightly  salted  water — about  20  or  30  minutes.  When  done,  turn 
off  the  water  and  set  the  kettle  back  on  the  stove;  mash,  and  stir  to 
let  the  water  dry  out,  then  add  butter,  salt,  and  a  little  white  pep- 
per.    Keep  hot  on  the  back  of  the  stove  until  time  to  serve. 

Baked. — Pare  the  squash,  remove  the  seeds,  and  steam  it  until 
tender;  then  mash,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  to  a  me- 
dium=sized  squash  add  1  cup  cracker  or  bread  crumbs;  stir  together 
well,  put  it  in  a  greased  baking^dish,  and  bake  1  hour. 

Fried  Summer  Squash — Peel  the  squash,  cut  it  in  small  squares, 
and  fry  in  hot  butter;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  It  will  be  as 
delicate  as,  and  taste  much  like  egg  plant.     Try  it. 

WINTER  SQUASH — This  usually  has  a  hard  shell,  and  has  to 
be  broken  with_a  hatchet,  by  dropping  on  a  plank  floor,  or  by  sawing 
with  the  meat  saw.  Break  in  small  pieces  for  the  kettle,  scrape  out 
the  seeds,  and  wash  clean.  Put  the  pieces  in  the  kettle  with  the 
shell  side  up,  have  a  little  salt  in  the  water,  which  should  cover  it, 
and  cook  for  an  hour,  if  it  does  not  break  to  pieces.  When  done, 
take  the  shells  in  a  clean  cloth,  and,  with  an  iron  spoon,  scrape  the 
squash  into  a  basin  to  keep  hot  on  the  back  of  the  range.  If  too  dry, 
moisten  with  a  little  water,  and  add  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Some  winter  squashes  have  a  thin  soft  shell  and  are  watery;  they  can 
be  baked  in  the  oven,  then  seasoned  as  above.  Both  summer  and 
winter  squashes  are  also  steamed  instead  of  boiled  by  some  cooks. 

The  squash  is  a  species  of  the  gourd,  belonging  to  the  same  general  order  as 
the  cucumber  and  pumpkin.  It  is  a  pleasant  and  wholesome  article  of  food,  but 
contains  little  nutriment,  having  about  1^  of  sugar,  2  to  4:%  of  starch,  and  less  than 
1%  of  nitrogenous  matter. 

TOMATOES. 

BAKED — Scald  and  skin  tomatoes  that  are  whole  and  firm,  and 
ripe  enough  to  be  thoroughly  red;  cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end,  and 
with  a  sharp  knife  take  out  the  hard  core;  arrange  them  in  a  round 
baking4in  well  buttered,  with  the  cut  side  upward;  put  a  sprinkle  of 
salt  and  pepper  over  them,  and,  in  each  one,  a  bit  of  bread  well  but- 
tered.   Then  bake.     Time,  about  ^  hour 

BAKED  STUFFED  TOMATOES — Choose  large  tomatoes,  as 
nearly  the  same  size  as  possible;  from  the  stem  end  take  out  the 
seeds  and  inner  part  of  the  tomato;  make  a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs, 


252  VEGETABLES 

finely-chopped  cold  ham,  and  the  chopped  tomato;  season  with  but- 
ter, pepper,  a  little  salt  and  mustard.  Fill  the  tomatoes  with  the 
stuflfing  and  bake  them.  Time,  about  \  hour.  Add  a  little  butter  to 
them  before  putting  in  the  oven,  and  a  very  little  water  in  the  bak- 
ing=pan.  When  they  are  done,  set  them  where  they  will  keep  hot; 
add  a  little  more  butter  and  hot  water  to  the  baking=pan,  and  make  a 
thin  gravy,  thickening  it  with  brown  flour  and  stirring  in  a  table- 
spoon of  sugar. 

TOMATOES    AND   CREAM Slice  the  tomatoes  rather   thick, 

and  turn  oflp  all  the  juice  that  escapes;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  just 
before  they  are  served  pour  [cream  over  them  To  those  who  have 
never  tried  it  this  dish  may  be  uninviting,  but  to  those  who  are  fond 
of  the  natural  flavor  of  the  tomato,  it  will  be  found  delicious.  The 
yellow  tomato  preserves  are  very  nice  served  with  cream.  Accom- 
panied with  nice  white  cake,  no  daintier  dessert  could  be  wished  for. 

TOMATO  CROUTES — Small  tomatoes  are  better  for  this  dish. 
Scald  and  peel,  then  cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end,  leaving  about 
f  of  the  tomato;  place  them  the  cut  side  down,  on  slices  of  buttered 
bread,  arranged  in  a  buttered  bakings  tin;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per; bake  ^  hour.  This  dish  can  be  served  with  cold  meat,  and  is 
well  worth  trying. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES — Tomatoes  are  escalloped  like  oys- 
ters. Put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  in  a  buttered  baking=dish;  over  this, 
a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  a 
very  little  sugar.  Have  the  top  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  and  scatter 
over  it  bits  of  butter,  and  then  bake — time,  about  i  hour.  A  little  of 
the  gravy  left  from  roast  meats  would  add  to  the  flavor,  and  might  be 
poured  over  just  before  it  is  put  in  the  oven.  Canned  tomatoes  can 
be  used  almost  equally  well. 

RAW  TOMATOES — Tomatoes  are  often  eaten  raw.  Some  peo- 
ple object  to  having  the  skin  removed,  but  if  i^roperly  done,  the 
flavor  is  not  injured.  Select  those  which  are  firm,  smooth  and  fully 
ripe,  put  them  in  a  pan,  and  pour  on  enough  boiling  water  to  cover, 
and  leave  them  15  seconds,  but  no  more;  then  pour  off,  and  fill  the 
dish  with  cold  water.  Take  out,  remove  the  skins  and  cores,  and  set 
on  ice  till  wanted.  Cut  in  thin  slices  and  serve  ice  cold.  They  are 
delicious  eaten  either  with  sugar  alone,  or  with  sugar,  salt,  pepj^er 
and  vinegar.  They  should  be  prepared  several  hours  in  advance,  to 
be  eaten  this  way;  or,  if  wanted  for  breakfast,  skin  them  the  night 
before,  and  keep  on  ice  till  ready  to  use  them. 


VEGETABLES  253 

FRIED  TOMATOES — Select  the  largest  firm,  ripe  tomatoes  for 
frying.  Cut  them  in  halves  and  put  them  in  a  frying=pan  that  can 
be  covered,  having  first  melted  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  the  pan; 
place  the  tomatoes  with  the  skin  side  down,  and  on  the  top  of  each 
half  put  as  much  of  bread  crumbs  as  it  will  hold;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Cover  the  tomatoes  and  allow  them  to  cook  10  minutes 
without  removing  the  cover;  then  take  out  the  tomatoes  on  a  platter 
and  set  where  .they  will  keep  hot  while  you  prepare  a  gravy  for  them, 
as  follows:  If  the  butter  has  cooked  away,  add  a  little  more  to  the 
frying=pan;  pour  in  ^  teacup  of  boiling  water,  then  thicken  with  a 
teaspoon  of  flour  wet  with  a  little  water;  stir  until  it  boils,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes. 

TOMATOES  AND  MACARONI Turn  -|  lb.    tomatoes    into  a 

sauce^pan,  with  a  spoonful  of  stock  or  a  bit  of  butter;  let  them  cook 
until  tender  enough  to  pass  through  a  coarse  sieve  or  colander,  then 
re-heat,  season  nicely,  adding  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar, 
and  pour  over  a  flat  dish  covered  with  nicely  boiled  macaroni,  not  the 
pipe;  that  answers  when  it  is  to  be  cut  into  short  lengths.  Cover 
the  surface  with  grated  cheese  and  bread  crumbs,  put  a  few  bits  of 
butter  over  it,  and  brown  it  before  the  fire  or  in  a  quick  oven. 

SALTED  TOMATOES.— Pick  ripe  tomatoes  (but  not  too  ripe) 
and  put  in  jars.  Put  strong  salt  brine  over  them,  and  cover  with  a 
plate,  having  the  brine  just  cover  them,  and  then  in  the  winter  when 
you  want  to  use  them,  take  out  what  you  want  and  soak  24  hours  in 
cold  water,  and  peel  and  slice  the  same  as  when '  they  are  fresh  from 
the  vines.     They  are  much  better  in  this  way  than  when  canned. 

STEWED  TOMATOES.— Scald,  peel,  slice  and  stew  slowly  in  a 
sauce^pan  about  ^  hour;  then  add  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  a  little 
sugar  to  sweeten;  stew  ^  hour  more,  stirring  in  the  seasoning. 
Thicken,  if  desired,  with  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  or  corn^starch,  or 
flour  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Canned  tomatoes  can  be  prepared  in 
the  same  manner. 

TOMATO  TOAST.  —Scald  and  peel  nice,  fresh  tomatoes,  and 
stew  till  tender— about  ^  to  |  hour;  season  with  butter,  salt,  pepper 
and  a  little  sugar.  Take  as  many  slices  of  bread  as  needed  for  the 
family,  toast  well,  butter,  and  arrange  in  layers  in  a  deep  dish  with 
some  of  the  stewed  tomatoes  on  each  slice;  cover  and  serve  at  once. 

CANNED  TOMATOES — These  are  nice  stewed  and  baked  in 
alternate  layers  with  boiled  rice,  or  boiled  macaroni,  seasoning  the 
layers  with  butter,  popper  and  salt. 


254  VEGETABLES 

The  tomato  is  a  native  of  South  America,  and  belongs  to  the  nightshade  order, 
■which  includes  the  potato  and  tobacco.  It  was  considered  poisonous  or  unfit  for 
food  until  within  a  comparatively  few  years.  The  fruit  is  the  only  part  which  is 
eaten.  It  is  a  delicious  article  of  food,  and  exerts  a  healthful  influence  upon  the 
liver  and  biliary  organs,  and  is  considered  by  some  physicians  a  good  remedy  for 
indigestion  and  dyspepsia.  It  contains  about  6^  of  sugar,  a  little  less  than  1^  of 
malic  acid,  to  which  it  owes  its  refreshing  and  cooling  qualities,  a  little  pectose, 
etc.  The  skins  will  readily  come  off  if  boiling  water  is  poured  over  them  and  they 
are  allowed  to  stand  a  while. 

TURNIPS. 

BOILED — Wash,  peel,  cut  in  pieces,  and  boil  until  tender  in 
just  enough  salted  water  to  cover  them.  They  are  then  sometimes 
mashed  until  the  lumps  are  all  out,  then  seasoned  with  salt,  white 
pepper,  and  a  little  butter;  serve  hot.  A  better  way  than  mashing, 
because  it  makes  them  less  soggy,  is  to  chop  them;  when  boiled 
tender,  turn  them  into  a  wooden  bowl,  season  with  salt,  white  pep- 
per and  a  little  butter,  chop  them  very  quickly,  and  put  them  in  the 
oven  to  become  hot  before  serving.  Small  turnips  are  very  nice 
served  whole,  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  if  one  has  it  to  spare, 
a  few  spoons  of  cream  on  them.  Time  to  boil,  young,  15  to  20  min- 
utes; if  old,  I  to  1  hour. 

CREAMED  TURNIPS — Boil,  cut  in  dice,  and  pour  over  a  cream 
sauce.     A  drawn  butter,  or  any  white  sauce,  can  be  used  instead. 

PIEDMONTESE  TURNIPS.— Half  boil  the  turnips;  after  cutting 
them  in  slices,  butter  a  pudding-dish,  put  in  the 
turnips,  moisten  them  with  a  little  milk  or  cream, 
dust  over  them  pepper,  salt  and  bread  crumbs,  and  a 
little  grated  cheese,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  of  a 
bright  golden  brown.      Omit  tlie  cheese  if  preferred. 


The  turnip  is  used  throughout  the  United  States  and 
Europe,  but  it  does  not  thrive  in  a  hot  climate.  It  contains 
little  nutritive  matter,  and  is  good  for  human  food  only  when 
taken  with  other  articles.  When  eaten  alone  it  creates  flatu- 
lency. It  contains  no  starch  but  has  instead  a  jelly=like  sub- 
stance called  pectins,  and  in  the  best  kinds  a  slightly  acid 
quality  also.  It  is  somewhat  laxative  and  diuretic.  It  is  not 
good   for   those    with    weak    digestive    organs.      Turnips    need  tubnips. 

much    salt    as  they  contain   none,  and  being  without  fats    or 
starch  they  go  well  with  fat   meats,   potatoes,   etc.,   which  contain   those  elements- 

YAMS 

BOILED. — Peel  and  cut  into  slices  about  ^  inch  thick,  put  them 
into  a  kettle  with  barely  enough  salted  water  to  cover;  cover  closely 
and  cook  till  tender — about  |  to  1  hour.  Drain  in  a  colander,  keep- 
ing it  hot.     Make  a  white  sauce,  pour  it  over  and  serve. 


VEGETABLES 


255 


FRIED. — Peel  the  yams  and  slice  as  above; 
parboil  20  minutes  in  slightly  salted  water;  then 
drain,  wipe  dry,  and  fry  brown  in  butter,  pork  fat 
or  oil,  as  preferred;  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt  and 
white  pepper  while  frying. 

The  yam  is  a  native  of  tropical  countries.  The  roots 
are  tuberous,  something  like  our  own  potatoes.  When 
boiled  or  baked  they  are  nice  in  flavor,  and  very  nutritious. 
Although  somewhat  resembling  sweet  potatoes  they  are  of  a 
widely  different  order,  belonging  to  the  order  Dioscorea. 
They  contain  water,  7d%;  albumenoids,  2%;  starch,  etc.,  16^: 
fats,  0.5%;  mineral  matters,  1}4%- 


BREAD,   BISCUIT,   ETC. 

KEAD  has  well  been  called  the  staff  of  life.  It  is  in  vegeta- 
ble foods,  that  which  flesh  is  in  animal  foods,  and  each  con- 
tains nearly  all  the  elements  needed  for  nutrition. 

Wheat  makes  the  best  bread  of  any  cereal.  This  is  ow- 
ing to  the  peculiar  character  of  its  albuminous  matter,  which  is  u 
greyish  yellow,  elastic,  sticky  substance,  called  gluten.  This  gluten 
is  a  compound  of  at  least  4  albumenoids,  called  gluten=film,  gluten- 
casein,  gliadin,  and  mucedin. 

Grains  like  corn  and  oatmeal,  which  lack  gluten,  do  not  make  good 
bread.  Wheat  bread  best  meets  the  requirements  of  adult  life.  The 
gluten  furnishes  the  flesh  making  elements,  and  the  starch  the  heat 
giving,  while  deficiences  in  the  amount  of  phosphates,  etc.,  can  be 
made  up  by  the  use  of  eggs,  vegetables,  etc. 

The  essentials  of  bread  making  are  (1)  perfect  cleanliness;  (2) 
good  flour;  (3)  good  yeast;  (4)  the  dough  must  rise  well;  (5)  the 
oven  must  be  right — neither  too  hot  nor  too  cold;  (6)  the  careful 
attention  of  the  cook  throughout  the  process. 

The  principal  causes  of  sour  bread  are  using  poor  yeast,  raising 
at  too  high  a  temperature,  insufficient  baking,  and  cooling  in  a  warm, 
impure  atmosphere. 

Wheat  bread  is  the  kind  most  commonly  eaten  in  this  country, 
and  it  is  made  of  the  best  quality  of  wheat  flour  by  mixing  it  with 
water  or  milk  and  yeast  of  some  kind,  which  causes  a  more  or  less 
rapid  fermentation  according  to  the  kind  of  yeast  employed.  A 
thorough  kneading  or  molding  process  is  also  essential  in  making 
this  bread,  and  great  care  and  skill  emj)loyed  in  the  baking.  • 

The  yeast  must  be  fresh  and  good  or  the  bread  will  be  heavy  and 
indigestible;  stale,  sour  yeast  or  leaven,  produces  instead  of  vinous, 
an  acetous  fermentation,  and  the  result  is  a  sour,  heavy  and  unwhole- 
some loaf. 

Mixing  the  Bread.— Always  sift  the  flour  before  using  it,  and  it 
should  also  be  dry.  Dough  for  bread,  if  mixed  at  night,  should  be 
made  late  in  the  evening,  and  well  molded  (or  kneaded  as  the  process 
is  usually  called),  and  in  cool  or  cold  weather  should  be  placed 
where  it  will  retain  the  warmth  of  the  water  or  milk  used  in  mixing 
the  dough.  The  wetting  should  be  quite  warm,  but  not  hot  enough 
to  scald  the  yeast.     The  flour  should  also  be  warmed  in  cold  weather 

256 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  257 

by  setting  the  pan  which  contains  it  on  the  back  of  the  range,  and 
constantly  stirring  it  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  until  the  flour 
feels  warm  to  the  hand.  The  hand  is  better  for  stirring  it,  as  a 
spoon  does  not  always  prevent  its  caking  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 
When  thus  warmed  it  will  rise  much  more  quickly,  and  when  thor- 
oughly warmed  it  can  be  mixed  with  the  warm  wetting.  A  table- 
spoon of  salt  is  added,  and  many  cooks  use  a  tablespoon  of  sugar, 
which  hastens  the  fermentation  and  rising  of  the  dough. 

In  hot  weather  the  flour  does  not  need  warming,  and  the  wetting 
may  also  be  of  the  temperature  of  the  air.  The  dough  will  be  light 
in  the  morning,  and  can  be  molded  again,  divided  into  loaves  and 
put  into  the  bakings  tins  to  rise  again,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  bake; 
or,  instead  of  molding  it  early  in  the  morning,  if  other  work  is  press- 
ing, or  the  third  rising  is  desired,  it  may  be  cut  down  with  a  knife, 
until  it  is  very  nearly  of  the  bulk  it  was  before  rising,  and  left  to  rise 
again  until  after  breakfast  is  over,  when  it  can  be  molded  to  put  in 
the  baking4ins.  One  good  bread  making  rule  is  to  mold  20  minutes 
at  night  after  mixing,  keeping  the  dough  as  soft  as  possible;  then  cut 
down  well  the  first  thing  in  the  morning;  after  breakfast  mold  10 
minutes,  with  as  little  added  flour  as  possible,  then  divide  into  loaves 
and  put  it  in  the  baking4ins. 

If  dough  becomes  chilled,  put  the  pan  at  once  into  a  larger  one 
filled  with  warm  water,  and  as  fast  as  the  water  cools  replace  it  with 
more  which  is  warm,  until  the  dough  begins  to  rise  again.  By  keep- 
ing rising  dough  at  a  temperature  of  about  50°  (by  putting  it  in  a 
cellar  or  otherwise),  it  may  be  kept  at  a  standstill  for  hours  without 
being  injured;  then  it  should  be  brought  into  a  warm  room  about  an 
hour  before  baking,  to  finish  the  rising  process. 

The  best  icay  of  mixing  bread  is  to  mix  the  yeast  well  into  the 
water  or  milk,  and  then  work  in  the  flour.  This  is  better  than  the 
old  way  of  making  a  hole  in  the  flour  and  then  pouring  the  liquid 
into  it,  as  less  kneading  will  be  necessary,  and  the  yeast  will  be  more 
uniformly  mixed  with  the  flour.  It  is  better  to  measure  the  liquid, 
letting  that  regulate  the  size  of  the  loaf,  and  then  add  enough  flour 
to  make  it  the  right  consistency,  than  it  is  to  measure  the  flour  first 
and  then  add  the  liquid.  Measure  the  liquid,  and  either  mix  in  all 
the  flour  at  first,  or  else  add  about  half  at  first,  making  a  batter,  let  it 
rise  well,  then  add  the  remainder,  and  let  it  rise  again.  By  the  latter 
method  the  bread  rises  more  quickly,  and  milk  bread  may  in  the 
summer  be  thus  mixed  in  the  morning  and  baked  by  noon.  House- 
licepers  can  try  the  2  methods  and  adopt  the  one  which  they  prefer, 

When  yeast  bread  is  mixed  in  the  morning  instead  of  at  night 

17 


258  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

(and  with  the  quickly  rising  comxDressed  yeast  this  is  often  done) 
instead  of  molding  the  bread  when  first  mixed,  it  can  be  stirred  with 
a  sjDoon,  and  the  flour  cut  into  it,  until  the  dough  is  quite  stitf;  then 
cover  it  to  keep  it  warm  and  in  2  or  3  hours  it  will  have  risen  so  that 
more  flour  can  be  added,  then  molded,  and  put  into  baking-pans  to 
rise.  Many  persons  prefer  this  bread  as  being  better  and  sweeter 
than  when  risen  over  night. 

Remember  that  getting  the  dough  too  stiff  is  one  great  fault  in 
making  bread;  aim  to  have  it  as  soft  as  possible  without  being  at  all 
sticky  or  wet.  If  either  the  sponge  or  the  dough  be  permitted  to 
overwork  itself,  that  is  to  say,  if  the  mixing  and  kneading  be  neg- 
lected when  it  has  reached  the  proper  point  for  either,  sour  bread 
will  probably  be  the  result  in  warm  weather,  and  bad  bread  at  all 
times. 

The  Kneading. — The  object  in  kneading  the  dough  is  to  thor- 
oughly mix  the  flour  and  water,  and  evenly  distribute  the  yeast,  so 
that  the  fermentation  may  be  uniform.  It  is  best  done  on  a  bread 
board,  although  often  done  in  a  mixing  bowl.  The  dough  should  be 
kneaded  until  it  is  a  smooth,  plastic,  even  grained  mass.  The  mo- 
tion is  hard  to  describe,  but  much  depends  on  having  the  kneading 
thoroughly  and  properly  done.  Use  as  little  extra  flour  as  possible. 
Deftness  rather  than  strength  counts  in  the  process.  If  you  can  pull 
the  dough  out  long,  and  it  springs  back  to  the  hand,  it  is  good. 

The  Rising. — In  setting  the  dough  to  rise,  the  rule  is  that  it 
should  rise  till  its  size  is  a  little  more  than  doubled.  It  is  best  to 
cover  it  with  several  thicknesses  of  cloth  and  a  tight  fitting  cover; 
this  will  keep  out  the  air  and  prevent  a  thick  crust  from  forming, 
which  will  not  mix  well  with  the  dough  when  it  is  kneaded,  and 
will  cause  streaks  or  spots  in  the  bread.  Grease  the  bowl  in  which 
the  dough  is  set  to  rise. 

Care  should  be  taken  in  rising  bread  that  it  is  kept  warm  in  cold 
weather;  but  not  too  hot,  as  that  induces  the  acetous  fermentation 
instead  of  the  vinous,  and  the  dough  sours;  about  70°  to  80°  is  right. 
Old  bread  makers  preferred  a  slow  rise,  which  they  said  made  a 
sweeter  bread,  but  later  scientific  developments  point  towards  a 
quick  rising  as  the  best,  because  yeast  being  a  plant  which  lives  and 
dies,  by  quick  fermentation  the  plant  is  living  when  the  bread  is 
ready  to  bake,  but  by  the  slower  process  only  the  dead  spores  are 
left.  To  hasten  the  process  of  rising,  use  plenty  of  yeast,  but  do  not 
keep  it  too  hot.  The  less  yeast  used  however,  the  sweeter  the  bread 
will  be,  because  the  yeast  consumes  the  sugar  in  the  dough,  and  the 
more  yeast  used  the  more  sugar  will  be  consumed. 


BKEAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  •     259 

Bread  keeps  better,  esx^ecially  in  hot  weather,  if  no  milk  is  used 
in  the  mixing;  a  bit  of  butter  or  a  little  lard  may  be  added  to  the 
warm  water  used  in  mixing  the  bread,  which  will  give  it  the  neces- 
sary "shortness"  when  the  milk  is  omitted.  When  the  dough  is 
molded  and  placed  in  the  pans,  allow  for  its  doubling  in  size  before 
baking — that  is,  make  up  the  loaves  to  half  fill  the  pans.  It  should 
be  placed  in  the  oven  before  the  pans  are  quite  full  of  the  risen 
dough,  for  it  rises  a  little  after  being  put  in  the  oven. 

The  Bread  Pans. — The  brick=shaped  sheet=iron  pans  are  preferable 
to  any  others,  both  in  shape  and  material.  Eound  loaves  do  not  cut 
in  equal  sized  or  symmetrical  slices,  and  the  untinned  iron  pans  are 
better  conductors  of  heat  than  those  bright  with  tin.  Grease  the  pan 
lightly  before  putting  in  the  bread.  The  bread  should  not  be  made 
in  too  large  loaves,  as  it  is  not  so  sure  of  being  done  in  the  center; 
besides,  the  smaller  loaves  furnish  slices  of  convenient  size  without 
breaking,  or  cutting  in  2  parts,  as  is  sometimes  done  when  the  loaves 
are  very  large;  the  medium=sized  pans  or  small  ones  are  the  best.  A 
loaf  is  of  better  shape  if  molded  in  2  parts,  which  after  baking  come 
out  of  the  pan  as  a  single  loaf.  One  long  loaf  will  be  smaller  at  the 
ends,  and  will  not  cut  in  nice  slices,  unless  the  dough  is  pulled  out 
quite  long,  and  filled  in  at  the  ends  of  the  pans. 

The  Oven  should  be  well  heated,  and  a  steady  fire  maintained 
during  the  process  of  baking.  An  old  rule  for  the  heat  of  the  oven, 
for  bread  and  most  baking,  was  to  have  it  so  that  you  could  "hold 
your  hand  in  it  while  you  counted  12,  but  no  longer, "  but  the  sensi- 
tiveness to  heat,  in  difPerent  individuals  varies  and  a  much  better  test 
is  to  throw  a  tablespoon  of  fresh  flour  on  the  oven  bottom.  If,  after 
a  few  seconds  the  flour  remains  white,  the  temperature  is  too  low  and 
should  be  increased.  If  it  burns  black  quickly,  takes  fire,  or  assumes 
a  dark  brown  color,  the  oven  is  too  hot  and  must  be  cooled.  If  it 
turns  a  blackish  or  brownish  yellow,  and  looks  slightly  scorched,  the 
oven  is  right. 

If  the  oven  gets  too  hot  and  there  is  danger  of  burning  the  bread, 
put  a  dish  of  hot  water  in  the  oven,  and  the  steam  will  prevent  its 
scorching;  it  is  better,  however,  to  carefully  regulate  the  heat  so  that 
this  will  not  be  necessary.  The  right  temperature  of  the  oven  for 
baking  bread  is  from  400°  to  450°. 

Baking  the  Bread. — Medium=sized  loaves  should  have  from  |  to  1 
hour's  time  for  baking,  and  should  turn  out  of  the  pan  of  a  yellowish 
brown  color  on  the  top,  bottom  and  sides  of  the  loaf.  One  test  is  to 
thrust  into  the  loaf  a  straw  taken  from  the  broom;  when  it  is  pulled 
out,  if  it  is  clear  from  dough  the  bread  is  done,  but  if  it  is  sticky  the 


2G0  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

bread  should  be  baked  longer.  Or,  if  the  loaf  is  baked  in  2  parts, 
break  them  apart,  and  press  with  the  finger  where  broken;  if  clammy 
it  is  not  done  and  must  be  baked  longer,  but  if  elastic  it  is  done. 

If  on  ojjening  the  oven  door  you  are  met  with  a  cloud  of  steam 
which  quickly  passes  away,  in  all  probability  the  bread  is  done. 
Bread  should  reach  the  temperature  of  boiling  water  (212°)  clear  to 
the  center,  but  when  carelessly  baked,  even  when  burned  on  the  out- 
side, it  sometimes  does  not  do  so ;  in  such  slack-baked  bread  the  yeast 
germs  are  not  all  killed,  and  the  bread  is  not  wholesome.  In  j)utting 
the  j)ans  into  the  oven  leave  space  enough  between  them  so  that  the 
heat  can  freely  circulate  around  each  one. 

When  turned  out  of  the  pan,  if  the  sides  of  the  loaf  look  white, 
while  the  top  and  bottom  crust  is  of  a  good  color,  turn  the  loaf  so 
that  one  side  will  come  at  the  toj)  and  the  other  at  the  bottom  of  the 
j)an,  return  it  to  the  oven  and  finish  browning  the  sides;  if  this  is  not 
done  there  is  danger  that  the  loaf  will  be  doughy  in  the  center.  An 
oven  too  cold  will  allow  the  bread  to  rise  too  much,  and  cause  it  to 
run  over  the  sides  of  the  pans,  which  detracts  from  the  flavor  of  the 
bread.  If  the  oven  is  too  hot  it  crusts  over  the  top  of  the  loaf  and 
causes  it  to  crack  at  the  sides;  it  will  also  crack  at  the  sides  if  it  has 
not  sufiiciently  risen  in  the  pan  before  putting  it  in  the  oven. 

Remember  then,  that  bread  should  be  thoroughly  baked,  for 
slack  baked  bread  is  both  unwholesome  and  unpalatable;  and  also 
that  bread  which  "doughs"  in  the  mouth  will  "dough"  in  the  stom- 
ach, and  hence  is  very  indigestible,  because  it  becomes  a  sticky  mass 
which  the  digestive  fluids  do  not  readily  penetrate. 

After  the  loaves  are  baked  put  them  where  the  air  can  freely  circu- 
late around  them,  thus  cooling  them  quickly  and  carrying  away  any 
gas  remaining  about  them;  do  not  leave  them  in  the  j)ans.  A  fine 
wire  frame  is  sometimes  used  to  set  them  on;  or  turn  the  pan  bottom 
upward  and  place  the  loaf  on  it,  bottom  upward  also.  Do  not  wet 
the  crust  or  put  a  wet  towel  over  it;  a  little  butter  or  lard  may  be 
rubbed  over  the  crust  if  preferred,  but  the  moisture  from  the  cooling 
bread  will  soften  the  crust  sufficiently,  and  the  bread  keeps  better  to 
be  cooled  quickly.  A  thin  dry  cloth  may  be  thrown  over  if  there  are 
flies  about. 

The  best  bread  cloths  are  made  from  coarse  table  linen.  Do  not 
use  them  for  anything  else,  and  keep  them  scrupulously  clean. 

Bread  keeps  best  in  a  tin  box  with  a  cover  which  shuts  ilowu  tight- 
ly to  keep  it  from  drying  out  quickly.  It  must  be  thoroughly  cold 
before  iDutting  it  in  the  bread-box,  or  it  will  not  keep  well,  and  be- 
sides the  steam  from  the  bread  will  cause  the  box  to  rust — two  thingo 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  261 

to  be  carefully  avoided.  Do  not  wrap  bread  with  a  cloth  while  in  the 
box,  as  it  is  then  more  apt  to  mold.  If  the  box  is  rusty,  put  a  plate 
or  platter  in  the  bottom  of  the  box  for  the  bread  to  rest  on. 

If  hot  bread  is  put  on  a  wooden  table,  spread  on  a  cloth  before 
doing  so,  or  the  part  of  the  bread  which  touches  the  table  will  sweat 
and  absorb  the  odor  of  the  wood. 

Heat  the  knife  when  cutting  either  warm  bread  or  cake,  as  it 
then  cuts  much  smoother. 

The  Bread=box  and  Remnants. — On  the  day  of  baking,  while  the 
bread  is  cooling,  take  all  the  old  pieces  from  the  box,  wash,  scald, 
and  thoroughly  dry  it,  and  let  it  stand  in  the  sun,  if  possible,  until 
the  bread  is  ready  to  go  into  it.  If  there  are  pieces  of  old  bread  left, 
use  them  in  some  way,  by  making  them  into  toast;  or,  if  not  enough 
for  that,  put  them  on  a  tin  and  dry  them  in  the  oven,  roll  fine,  and 
use  them  in  puddings,  griddle^cakes,  croquettes,  or  in  escalloped  or 
gratinated  dishes.  Do  not  allow  a  particle  of  the  old  bread  to  go 
back  into  the  bread^box  with  the  new;  put  it  under  a  pan  to  keep 
from  drying  until  it  is  time  to  use  it.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  dispose  of 
every  particle  of  old  bread  before  beginning  on  the  fresh. 

Eating  Hot  Bread — Bread  made  with  yeast  is  indigestible  when 
fresh  from  the  oven,  or  on  the  day  it  is  baked,  because  is  is  full  of 
moisture  and  the  starch  is  held  together  in  masses  which  are  impen- 
etrable to  the  saliva,  and  when  chewed  by  the  teeth  it  forms  into 
leathery,  poreless  masses,  which  lie  in  the  stomach  like  lead;  it 
ripens,  however,  after  being  kept  a  day,  and  then  the  particles  of  the 
bread  separate  more  easily,  so  that  the  digestive  fluids  can  more 
readily  come  in  contact  with  every  portion  of  them.  Hot  yeast 
bread,  rolls,  biscuit,  or  muffins  should  never  be  eaten  by  persons  of 
weak  digestion,  or  by  those  who  suffer  from  dyspei^sia,. 

Some  people  find  bread  indigestible  which  is  in  the  least  sour;  a 
little  lime= water  (a  teaspoon  for  each  loaf  of  bread)  is  sometimes 
used  in  mixing  the  bread;  the  lime= water  being  an  alkali,  neutralizes 
any  acid  which  is  generated  during  the  process  of  fermenta- 
tion. Soda  is  also  sometimes  used  to  correct  the  sourness  in  bread, 
but  sourness  can  easily  be  avoided  by  proper  care,  and  that  is  much 
the  better  plan. 

Mixing  Different  Flours.— A  mixture  of  f  wheat  or  rye  flour  and  I 
cornmeal  makes  a  bread  quite  as  nutritious  as  either  all  wheat  or 
rye  bread,  and  more  digestible  because  the  lessened  quantity  of 
gluten  makes  it  less  adhesive  and  more  readily  penetrated  by  the 
gastric  juices. 

Using  Cornmeal. — In  most  dishes  made  with  cornmeal  the  addition 


262  BKEAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

of  about  25%  of  wheat  flour  increases  the  adhesiveness  of  the  mix- 
ture, and  is  an  improvement. 

Baking  Powder  Bread. — If  bread  runs  short,  a  tin  of  baking  pow- 
der biscuits  or  a  baking  powder  loaf  of  bread  can  be  quickly  made, 
and,  unless  it  is  eaten  too  hot,  there  is  no  danger  of  dyspepsia,  as 
bread  and  biscuits  made  in  this  way  easily  separate  into  particles. 
This  can  be  readily  demonstrated  by  putting  a  slice  of  each  kind  of 
bread  on  a  platter  and  wetting  them  with  cold  water;  the  yeast  bread 
can  be  taken  up  whole  from  the  water,  while  that  made  with  baking 
powder  falls  apart  immediately.  The  baking= powder  bread  is  more 
digestible  because  it  thus  separates  more  readily  into  particles,  so 
that  the  digestive  fluids  can  easily  attack  every  part,  while  the  other 
forms  a  solid,  nearly  impenetrable  mass  in  the  stomach.  Other 
advantages  of  baking=powder  bread  are  that  none  of  the  starch  in  the 
flour  is  consumed  by  the  baking  powder,  as  is  done  by  yeast,  and 
there  are  certainly  no  yeast  germs  in  the  bread  when  eaten. 

Using  Pastry  Flour. — It  is  a  generally  safe  rule  to  use  pastry  flour 
whenever  baking  powder  is  used,  and  patent  flour  with  yeast.  A 
mixture  of  ^  spring  wheat  or  pastry  flour,  and  ^  winter  wheat  or  pat- 
ent flour,  gives  good  results  in  yeast  breads,  and  by  many  is  pre- 
ferred to  the  patent  flour  alone. 

Prepared  flour,  which  has  the  baking  powder  already  mixed  with 
it,  can  be  obtained  at  grocery  stores,  or  a  quantity  can  easily  be 
prepared  at  home  and  kept  on  hand  for  use.  The  proportion  is  2|  to 
3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  to  the  quart  of  flour,  taking  care  that 
it  is  well  sifted  in. 

Adding  Sugar  and  Potatoes — In  fermented  bread  it  is  best  to  add  a 
little  sugar — not  enough  to  produce  a  very  sweet  taste,  but  merely 
enough  to  replace  that  which  is  decomposed  by  fermentation,  and  so 
restore  its  natural  sweetness.  Some  people  object  to  using  sugar, 
but  for  the  foregoing  reason  it  is  ijrobably  better  to  use  a  little.  Add- 
ing potatoes  to  bread  dough,  which  is  sometimes  done,  is  unneces- 
sary with  the  best  grades  of  flour,  but  with  the  inferior  grades  it  im- 
proves the  bread. 

The  Peinoiples  Involved. — As  the  making  of  bread  is  the  most  important 
method  of  cooking  grain  food,  let  us  examine  the  process  a  little  and  find  the 
principles  involved.  Grinding  the  grain  removes  the  indigestible  bran,  and  by 
reducing  it  to  a  powder  it  vastly  increases  the  surface  exposed  to  the  action  of  the 
■water  and  yeast.  The  water  when  added  causes  the  expansion  of  the  starch  cells, 
and  it  also  gives  an  agreeable  consistence  to  the  bread  after  it  is  baked.  Each 
grain  of  flour  should  be  surrounded  by  a  thin  film  of  water;  a  white,  powdery  ker- 
nel of  unmixed  flour  is  sometimes  seen  in  bread  when  this  is  not  done. 

Adding  a  little  salt  not  only  causes  the  dough  to  rise  better  in  the  oven,  but 
probably  ;it  enables  the  albuminous  matter  to  set  more  re  ;ulily,  and  thus  helps  to 
prevent  the  inflated  dough  from  collapsing  bcf.iro  Ihc  h.-ikiugis  comulete.     It  also 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  263 

acts  as  a  condiment  and  supplies  the  system  with  hydrochloric  acid  and  soda 
which  are  insufficiently  supplied  by  natural  foods. 

In  leavened  bread  the  dough  is  subjected  to  fermentation  before  it  is  baked, 
by  introducing  leaven  or  yeast.  The  yeast  cells,  which  are  very  inuch  smaller  than 
the  grains  of  Hour  and  are  dissolved  in  the  water  or  milk,  should  be  brought  into 
contact  with  every  part  of  the  flour,  and  by  the  kneading,  a  small  quantity  of  air  is 
introduced  which  favors  the  subsequent  fermentation.  When  the  yeast  is  well 
mixed  in,  the  action  of  fermentation  is  set  up  equally  in  all  parts  of  the  mass,  but, 
if  not  well  mixed,  there  will  be  an  accumulation  of  gas  in  some  places,  and  little  or 
none  elsewhere.  After  introducing  the  yeast  the  dough  is  set  aside  to  ferment  and 
it  is  put  in  a  warm  place  because  moderate  heat  stimulates  the  process — about  70° 
to  80°  is  right.  " 

During  the  process  of  fermentation  millions  of  small  bubbles  of  carbonic  acid 
gas  are  generated,  and  these  bubbles  permeate  the  mass.  These  bubbles  of  gas, 
being  very  light,  naturally  rise,  but  they  are  held  in  by  the  tough,  elastic  and 
sticky  gluten,  and  so  they  lift  the  whole  mass  and  cause  it  to  "  rise  "  or  increase  in 
bulk.  If  it  was  not  for  this  adhesive  gluten,  the  gas  would  readily  escape  without 
lifting  the  bread,  and  it  is  because  cornmeal  and  oatmeal  lack  gluten,  and  so  are 
not  "sticky"  enough,  that  they  do  not  make  good  bread. 

To  have  good  bread,  it  should  undergo  2  fermentations,  (1)  the  saccharine  (or 
sweet)  fermentation,  and  (2)  the  vinous.  It  will  smell  a  little  like  foaming  beer  in 
this  stage.  A  third,  or  acetous  fermentation  would  follow,  but  it  should  never 
be  allowed  to  reach  this  stage.  Should  this  happen-,  it  can  be  remedied  by  add- 
ing 1  teaspoon  of  soda  for  each  qt.  of  water  or  4  qts.  of  flour  used,  because  soda 
being  an  alkali,  will  neutralize  any  acid  which  has  been  generated,  but  the  bread 
will  not  afterward  be  as  healthful  or  nutritious.  Bread  raised  but  once  is  coarse 
of  grain  but  sweet  to  the  taste. 

The  risen  dough  is  baked  in  an  oven  at  a  temperature  varying  between  320° 
and  572°;  the  alcohol  and  carbonic  acid  gas  are  expelled,  the  yeast  germs  are  (or 
should  be)  destroyed  by  the  heat,  and  various  chemical  changes  are  effected.  The 
starch  granules  are  mostly  ruptured  and  intimately  connected  with  the  gluten, 
a  portion  of  the  starch  near  the  surface  is  converted  into  dextrin,  and  a  little  cara- 
tnel  is  usually  produced. 

It  is  this  conversion  of  the  starch  into  dextrin  which  makes  the  crust  more 
easily  digested  than  the  center — a  fact  which  some  people  do  not  understand. 
This  turning  of  the  starch  to  dextrin  is  the  same  thing  which  takes  place  when 
bread  is  toasted,  as  we  have  explained  under  toast.  More  of  the  starch  is  turned 
to  dextrin  in  the  crust  than  in  the  center  because  it  is  heated  more.  The  evapora- 
tion of  the  water  inside  the  loaf  while  baking,  keeps  down  the  temperature  there 
to  about  212°. 

Some  time  before  the  cooking  is  complete  the  generation  of  carbonic  acid  gas 
will  stop,  but  by  that  time  a  hard  crust  should  be  formed  which  will  prevent  the 
dough  from  falling.  Flour  mixed  with  water  and  baked,  without  being  made  to 
"  rise"  by  using  yeast  or  baking  powder,  would  be  solid  and  almost  impenetrable 
by  the  digestive  fluids,  and  therefore  very  indigestible,  but  the  expansion  caused 
by  the  carbonic  acid  gas  separates  the  particles  of  gluten,  and  leaves  the  bread  full 
of  little  holes,  into  which  the  digestive  fluids  readily  enter,  and  so  attack  the 
bread  in  every  part. 

It  will  be  seen  that,  as  a  result  of  the  foregoing  processes,  bread  differs  in  many 
important  respects  from  the  flour  from  which  it  is  made.  In  leavened  bread  the 
albumen  is  coagulated,  the  starch  cells  are  ruptured,  a  portion  of  the  starch  is 
turned  to  sugar,  and  part  of  that  is  decomposed  into  carbonic  acid  gas  and  alco- 
hol, and  part  is  turned  to  dextrin  and  maltose,  and  a  little  caramel  is  often  pro- 
duced. The  alcohol  generated  by  decomposing  the  sugar  is  all  evaporated  before 
the  bread  is  fully  baked. 

YEAST. 

THREE  HOUR  YEAST.— Take  1  cup  of  flour,  |  cup  of  sngar,  3 

tablespoons  of  salt;  pour  over  this  1  pint  of  boiling  water;  let  it  cool, 

then  add  1  cup  of  hop  yeast.      After  this  gets  light,  take  8  qts.  of 

mashed  boiled  potatoes,  and  3  qts.  of  warm   water  and  add  to  the 


^64  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

other.  It  will  be  ready  for  use  the  next  day.  Then  1  qt.  of  this 
yeast  and  1  qt.  of  warm  water  will  make  6  loaves  of  bread.  With 
this  yeast,  bread  will  rise  in  3  hours  and  the  bread  can  be  baked  the 
same  day,  which  is  quite  an  advantage. 

HOP  YEAST — Take  1  qt.  of  water,  steep  a  small  handful  of 
hops  in  it,  and  when  it  has  boiled  for  a  few  minutes  strain  this  water 
on  6  grated  potatoes;  then  boil  them  until  clear,  say  20  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time;  if  the  potatoes  are  large,  and  the  paste  becomes 
too  thick,  add  a  little  more  water;  while  it  is  boiling,  stir  in  ^  cup  of 
sugar  and  a  tablespoon  of  salt;  when  it  has  cooled  so  that  it  is  luke- 
warm, add  a  teacup  of  yeast;  let  it  rise  over  night,  then  stir  it  down, 
and  put  in  the  yeast  jar;  cover  tightly  and  set  it  in  the  cellar.  This 
yeast  usually  keeps  2  weeks  in  hot  weather,  and  longer  in  cold.  A 
coffee-cup  of  this  yeast,  and  2  qts.  of  warm  water  or  milk,  with  a 
little  salt,  and  lard  or  butter,  will  make  6  or  8  loaves  of  bread, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  pans. 

POTATO  BALL  YEAST.— Take  a  pint  of  finely  mashed  boiled 
potatoes  and  have  it  as  dry  as  jDossible;  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
and  1  tablespoon  of  salt.  Soak  1  fresh  yeast  cake  in  as  little  water 
as  possible,  and  when  the  potato  is  cool  add  the  yeast;  mix  thorough- 
ly, and  set  it  in  a  cool  place  for  2  or  3  days.  When  you  wish  to  set 
bread  to  rise,  have  about  as  much  fresh  mashed  potato,  with  sugar 
and  salt  added,  as  you  took  at  first;  mix  this  thoroughly  with  the 
first,  then  divide  it  in  half;  roll  up  one  half  in  a  ball  for  the  next 
baking;  add  the  other  half  to  water  sufficient  for  sponge  for  the 
bread. 

MILK  YEAST  OR  RISING.— Take  1  pint  of  new  milk;  in  the 
morning  add  ^  teaspoon  of  salt;  stir  in,  and  beat  for  ^  minute,  2 
tablespoons  of  flour;  then  place  the  pitcher  in  a  kettle  of  warm 
water,  and  where  it  will  keep  warm,  but  not  hot  (about  110°).  It 
takes  about  5  hours  for  it  to  rise.  Instead  of  milk,  water  is  some- 
times used,  and  then  it  is  called  salt=rising.  Mix  the  rising  with  a 
quart  of  warm  water  and  a  little  salt;  make  a  stiff  sponge,  and  let  it 
rise  again;  then  mold  and  put  in  the  pans  to  bake. 

YEAST  CAKES. — Take  common  home=made  yeast,  and  when 
the  fermentation  ceases  stir  in  enough  cornmeal  to  make  a  dough. 
Roll  out,  cut  in  squares,  and  dry  thoroughly.  Do  not  dry  in  the 
oven  as  the  heat  will  kill  the  yeast  germs;  choose  a  dry  day  to  make 
them,  and  dry  in  the  shade  rather  than  in  the  sun.  Keep  them 
where  it  is  shady,  but  where  the  air  circulates  freely;  they  will  keep 
indefinitely. 


BEEAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  265 

On  examining  yeast  under  a  microscope  it  is  found  to  consist  of  a  collection 
of  small  oval  cells,  of  a  vegetable  nature,  known  as  yeast  cells,  or  yeast  plant.  It 
is  really  a  living  plant,  and  if  this  was  well  understood  many  mistakes  in  its  use 
could  be  avoided.  Extremes  of  heat  and  cold  kill  it,  and  an  unfavorable  tempera- 
ture will  check  its  active  growth,  even  though  it  may  not  be  hot  or  cold  enough  to 
kill  or  prevent  its  growing  in  future  under  more  favorable  conditions.  The  better 
the  food  suits  the  yeast  the  faster  it  grows.  Rough  usage  will  also  prevent  its 
growth.  Under  favorable  conditions  it  grows  very  fast,  as  much  as  will  lie  on  a  25 
cent  piece  will  fill  a  cup  in  1  or  2  hours.  Given  a  little  good  yeast  and  any  amount 
more  can  be  grown.  People  talk  about  keeping  yeast,  but  it  is  only  kept  as  one 
year's  corn  is  kept  to  be  sown  for  the  next  year's  crop. 

Yeast  as  it  grows  converts  into  sugar  some  of  the  starch  with  which  it  comes 
in  contact,  and  this  sugar  it  decomposes  into  alcohol  and  carbonic  acid  gas,  and  it 
is  to  this  action  that  it  owes  its  value,  because  the  carbonic  acid  gas  thus  formed 
will  permeate  the  mass  and  cause  it  to  "rise." 

The  yeast  plant  can  live  in  a  temperature  ranging  between  30°  and  170°,  but 
it  thrives  best  between  70°  and  80°.  * 

Good  yeast  is  yellow,  or  greyish  yellow  in  color;  the  more  brown  it  is  the 
more  dead  germs  there  are.  A  blue  line  sometimes  appears;  it  is  due  to  mold,  and 
bread  made  from  such  yeast  will  soon  become  moldy.  Yeast  with  a  pungent  odor, 
and  which  is  foamy  and  full  of  bubbles  is  good;  if  it  has  an  acid  odor  and  looks 
watery  it  has  spoiled.  Potato  starch  is  the  best  for  the  growth  of  the  yeast  plant, 
and  old  potatoes  are  preferable  to  new  for  the  reason  that  there  is  more  sugar  in 
them.  If  all  the  starch  cells  in  the  flour  or  potato  used  are  broken  by  boiling,  the 
yeast  acts  on  them  more  readily. 

Salt  and  sugar  are  added  to  aid  the  fermentation.  The  office  of  hops  or 
ginger  when  used  is  to  keep  the  yeast  from  souring,  which  they  do  by  stopping 
the  fermentation  before  all  the  sugar  is  decomposed  into  alcohol,  and  if  too  much 
is  not  used  they  give  it  a  pleasant  flavor.  Tin  or  iron  vessels  may  turn  the  yeast 
dark,  but  this  can  be  prevented  by  mixing  with  a  wooden  spoon  in  an  earthen 
vessel,  and  boiling  the  potatoes  and  hops  in  a  non=metallic  kettle,  either  granite  or 
porcelain  lined.  Of  the  3  kinds  of  yeast  in  common  use — liquid,  dry  and  com- 
pressed— each  has  its  advantages,  and  any  kind  is  good  which  makes  good  bread. 

BAKING    POWDEE. 

8  ounces  cream  of  tartar.  4  ounces  of  corn^starch. 

4  ounces  baking  soda. 

Powder  the  ingredients  and  sift  them  together  several  times,  as 
the  chief  danger  of  failure  lies  in  not  having  them  well  mixed.  This 
baking  powder  will  do  all  that  can  be  done  by  any  baking  powder  on 
the  market.  The  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture  has  fully  tested 
and  recommends  this  powder,  their  chemist  saying  in  his  report: 
"  The  consumer  can  i^ay  full  retail  price  for  the  ingredients  and  still 
make  it  up  for  about  ^  the  price  at  which  a  good  baking  powder  is 
sold,  and  if  she  makes  sure  of  the  quality  of  her  cream  of  tartar,  she 

will  have  an  article  of  which  the  purity  is  assured I  can 

see   no   reason   why   all  housekeepers   should  not  make  their  own 
baking  powder." 

Baking  powder  should  always  be  mixed  with  the  flour  before 
adding  the  ether  ingredients. 

The  action  of  baking  powder  consists  in  the  fact  that  when  wet  with  water  the 
alkali  (soda)  and  the  acid  (cream  of  tartar)  of  which  it  is  composed,  will  effervesce, 
and  in  so  doing  will  give  off  carbonic  acid  gas;  this  operates  in  the  same  way  ns 
the  gas  genera^^^d  by  yeast — that  is,  it  permeates  the  mass  of  dough  and  causes  it 


266  BREADS 

to  "rise"  or  swell  up.  The  action  of  the  baking  powder  will  soon  be  over,  how- 
ever, and  if  the  bread  or  pastry  is  not  baked  at  once,  the  gas  which  it  generates 
will  escape,  the  dough  will  settle  down  in  a  solid  mass,  and  the  whole  value  of  the 
powder  will  be  lost. 

To  succeed  when  using  baking  powder  or  soda  2  things  are  essential:  (1)  The 
baking  powder  (or  soda  and  cream  of  tartar)  must  be  thoroughly  and  perfectly 
mixed  with  the  flour.  (2)  After  the  raising  agencies  have  been  wet  so  that  they 
begin  to  work,  push  the  operation  rapidly  to  completion;  and  when  all  is  ready 
bake  without  delay.  After  the  soda  and  acid  are  mixed  to  form  the  baking  pow- 
der they  do  not  act  on  each  other  as  long  as  they  are  kept  dry;  the  only  reason  for 
adding  starch  or  flour  is  to  absorb  moisture  and  keep  them  dry.  As  soon  as  they 
are  wet  the  action  begins. 

Baking  powder  can  be  made  by  using  only  3^  as  much  starch  as  we  give  in 
the  above  formula,  or  with  even  less;  the  powder  will  then  be  a  little  stronger,  but 
it  will  not  keep  as  well,  so  that  for  ordinary  use  we  prefer  the  proportions  there 
given.  If  you  cannot  get  pi(?-e  cream  of  tartar  use  tartaric  acid  instead,  as  that  is 
less  often  adulterated.     It  answers  the  same  purpose,  but  use  only  ],^  as  much. 

People  as  a  rule  will  not  tire  of  yeast  bread  as  quickly  as  they  will  of  soda 
bread,  and  inferior  materials  can  be  used  with  yeast  better  than  with  baking 
powder. 


BREADSo 

The  Time  to  Bake  Bread  is  f  to  1  hour,  but  it  is  better  to  bake 
10  minutes  longer  than  not  enough. 

WHITE    BREAD. 

Take  1|  quarts  of  milk  and  scald  it  till  the  top  is  covered  with  a 
thin  skin,  by  setting  it  over  a  good  fire  in  a  double  boiler;  then  pour 
it  out  and  let  it  cool  after  adding  1  oz.  butter;  now  add  1  cake  com- 
pressed yeast  dissolved  in  1  cup  lukewarm  water.  After  it  has 
cooled,  add  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  about  1^  quarts  of  flour  (or 
enough  to  make  a  good  batter)  and  for  5  minutes  beat  energetically; 
then  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  over  night,  covering  it  with  a 
cloth.  The  next  morning  early,  while  it  is  still  in  the  bowl,  work  in 
with  the  hand  about  4  pints  of  flour  (or  enough  to  form  a  good 
dough);  then  take  it  out  on  to  the  bread-board  and  knead  15  or  20 
minutes.  Sufficient  kneading  is  essential  to  the  quality  of  the 
bread,  so  work  it  till  the  dough  is  soft  and  the  gas  thoroughly 
distributed  through  it.  Then  i^ut  it  back  in  the  bowl  and  set  it  in  a 
warm  place  till  it  becomes  quite  light  (about  3  hours  probably). 
Shape  into  loaves  and  put  into  the  pans,  and  bake  when  risen, 
pricking  with  a  fork  to  let  out  any  gas  within  the  loaf.  Time  to 
bake,  50  to  60  minutes, 

WATER  BREAD. 

Mix  together  1|  quarts  of  bread  flour  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt;  rub 
in  1  teaspoon  of  butter  until  fine  like  meal.     Soak  a  whole  yeast  cake 


BREADS  267 

in  ^  cup  of  lukewarm  water,  and  mix  the  liquid  with  the  dry  mix- 
ture; add  enough  more  flour  to  make  it  stiff'  enough  to  knead,  and, 
when  well  kneaded,  place  it  in  a  bowl,  cover  it  well  and  set  it  to  rise 
for  3  hours;  then  cut  it  down,  shape  into  loaves,  place  in  buttered 
pans,  let  it  rise  again,  and  bake  about  50  minutes.  If  the  bread  is 
set  to  rise  at  night,  use  J  of  a  yeast  cake,  but,  as  we  elsewhere  ex, 
plain,  the  latest  investigations  point  to  a  quick  rising  as  best. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  BREAD. 

Scald  1  pint  milk,  add  ^  cup  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt;  after 
it  has  cooled,  add  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  ^  cup  of  lukewarm  water, 
and  4^  cups  of  fine  granulated  wheat;  mix  well  with  a  broad  knife  or 
spoon;  cover,  and  set  it  to  rise  for  about  3  hours,  or  until  it  doubles 
its  bulk;  then  cut  it  down,  turn  it  into  buttered  pans,  let  it  rise  again, 
and  bake  about  50  minutes,  Whole  or  entire  wheat  bread  is  mixed 
soft,  or  only  stiff  enough  to  handle  with  a  spoon  or  knife.  Entire 
wheat  bread  is  more  crumbly  than  white  wheat  bread. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  BREAD  No.  2. 
Take  4  even  cups  of  entire  wheat  flour,  and  1  cup  plain  white 
flour  (before  sifting),  ^  of  a  compressed  yeast  cake  (dissolve  it  in 
lukewarm  water),  1  tablespoon  of  butter  (before  melting),  ^  cup  of 
molasses;  stir  in  lukewarm  milk  and  water  to  make  it  less  stiff  than 
for  white  bread;  beat  and  stir,  but  do  not  knead  it;  turn  into  a 
greased  baking^pan,  let  stand  till  light,  and  bake  nearly  an  hour. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  BREAD  WITH  BAKING  POWDER. 

Take  2  pints  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  saltspoon  of 
salt;  mix  thoroughly,  and  then  stir  in  2  cups  cold  water;  turn  into  a 
well  greased  baking^pan  and  bake  1  hour. 

HALF  AND  HALF  BREAD. 

A  very  nice  bread  is  made  by  using  3  cujds  each  of  white  flour 
and  granulated  or  entire  wheat  flour;  add  the  other  ingredients  and 
mix  as  directed  in  the  last  recipe. 

Entii'e  wheat  is  sometimes  called  graham,  but  is  not  exactly  the  same,  as  it  has 
all  the  nutritive  part  of  the  grain  without  the  silica  in  the  bran,  which  is  like  pow- 
dered glass,  and  .often  irritates  the  stomach  and  intestinal  canal.  Always  buy  the 
best  graham  and  entire  wheat,  as  the  cheaper  grades  may  be  siftings  mixed  with 
third  rate  flour.  Before  measuring  entire  wheat  flour,  sift  it,  not  to  remove  the 
bran,  but  to  make  it  lighter;  if  unsifted,  the  measurements  will  not  be  accurate.  If 
graham  or  entire  wheat  bread  is  moistened  with  molasses,  do  not  set  it  to  rise  over 
night,  for  you  will  then  surely  have  an  acetous  fermentation.  As  entire  wheat  flour 
is  much  more  nutritious  than  clear  white  flour,  its  more  extended  use  is  very  desir- 
able. 

MILK  BREAD. 

Take  2  cups  scalded  milk,  in  which  molt  1  tablespoon  butter;  add 


268  BREADS 

1  teaspoon  salt  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar;  when  cool  add  |  cup  yeast, 
and  stir  in  just  flour  enough  to  knead  it  well — about  6  to  7  cui)s. 
Knead  well,  cover,  let  rise  till  light;  cut  down,  divide  into  4  parts, 
shape  into  loaves  or  biscuit,  put  into  j)ans,  let  rise  again,  and  bake. 
Time  to  bake,  40  to  50  minutes. 

BAKING  POWDER  BREAD. 
Sift  together  thoroughly  1  quart  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  \  tea- 
spoon sugar,  and  2  heaping  teasjpoons  baking  powder.  Then  add 
enough  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough  (about  2  cups,  more  or  less,  ac- 
cording to  the  flour)  and  stir  it  together  quickly  with  a  large  spoon; 
then  turn  it  immediately  into  a  well  greased,  brick=shaped  bakings 
pan,  and  bake  at  once  for  |  hour  in  a  hot  oven,  covering  with  paper 
the  first  ^  hour,  to  prevent  its  crusting  over  too  soon.  Have  the  oven 
heated  right  before  beginning  to  mix  the  bread,  and  have  the  pan 
greased  and  ready. 

ONCE.RAISED  BREAD. 
Have  the  bread-bowl .  warm,  if  it  is  an  earthen  one,  and  the 
weather  cold;  put  a  piece  of  butter  in  it  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a 
tablesi^oon  of  salt;  then  pour  over  it  a  qt.  of  hot  milk  and  water;  stir 
cold  flour  into  it,  until  it  is  a  batter  that  can  be  beaten  with  a  spoon, 
and  beat  well  for  a  minute;  then  add  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast 
mixed  with  a  little  cold  water.  The  batter  at  this  time  should  be 
lukewarm;  wait  a  little  for  it  to  cool  if  it  is  too  hot,  but  the  cold  flour 
usually  makes  it  just  right;  beat  in  the  yeast  another  minute,  then 
place  a  pan  of  flour  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove,  i^ut  both  hands  in 
it  and  stir  constantly  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  until  the  flour  feels 
warm  all  through;  then  stir  into  the  batter  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
dough — cutting  in  the  flour  with  the  spoon — do  not  knead  it;  put  a 
little  flour  on  the  to^j  and  press  it  down  flat  all  around  the  spoon 
with  the  back  of  the  fingers.  Set  the  bowl  or  pan  over  a  kettle  or  tin 
pail  of  hot  water  on  the  cooking  table,  cover  with  a  cloth,  and  let  it 
rise  up  light,  which  will  be  in  B  hours;  stir  down  once,  let  it  come  up 
again,  take  it  on  the  moldings  board,  with  a  little  flour,  and  knead  10 
minutes;  make  in  3  small  loaves,  let  them  rise  to  twice  their  former 
bulk,  and  bake  nearly  an  hour.  Bread  mixed  in  this  way,  as  late  as 
10  o'clock,  will  be  out  of  the  oven  by  3  in  the  afternoon,  making  a 
delicious  bread  with  little  trouble. 

MILK,  OR  SALT  RISING  BREAD. 
Early  in  the  morning  (the  earlier  the  better)  mix  in  a  pitcher  a 
pint  of  warm  water,  or  |  water  and  -|  new  milk,  with  flour  enough  vo 


BREADS  269 

make  a  thin  batter.  Put  the  pitcher  in  a  kettle  of  warm  water,  and 
keep  it  at  an  even  heat— about  70°  to  80°.  Cover  the  pitcher  with  a 
saucer,  and  in  about  5  hours  it  will  begin  to  rise  (not  frothy,  like 
hop  yeast,  but  with  very  fine  bubbles);  then  add  1  qt.  water  with  a 
little  more  salt,  and  mold  in  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  and  put  it  in 
3  brick'shaped  baking-tins  to  rise.  When  it  has  risen  to  nearly 
twice  its  bulk  in  the  pans,  it  is  ready  to  bake.  This  bread  requires 
great  care  in  making,  and  much  time.  It  gives  off  a  disagreeable  gas 
while  rising,  but  that  is  all  driven  off  in  the  baking,  leaving  a  fine= 
grained,  most  delicious  bread. 

BUTTERMILK  BREAD. 

Take  2  cups  sour  buttermilk,  warm  it,  and  add  1  cake  of  yeast 
and  1  teaspoon  soda  (scant);  add  2  teaspoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  tablespoon  butter  and  form  to  a  soft  dough  with  warm  flour;  knead 
well,  let  it  rise,  knead  again,  put  in  greased  tins,  let  rise  and  bake 
about  1  hour, 

BROWN  BREAD, 

2  cups  cornmeal.  1  cup  graham  flour. 
1  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  rye  meal..  1  cup  molasses. 

1  cup  water.  A  little  salt. 

Bake  2  hours  in  a  covered  tin. 

BROWN  BREAD  No.  2. 

2  cups  sweet  milk.  4  cups  cornmeal. 

1  cup  molasses.  2  teaspoon-s  salt,  scant. 

2  cups  sour  milk.  2  cuids  flour. 

^  cup  sugar.  2  teaspoons  soda. 

Steam  3  hours,  and  bake  ^  hour. 

BROWN  BREAD  No.  3. 
8  cups  sour  milk.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  cups  cornmeal.  1  cup  graham  flour. 

-|  cup  molasses.  A  little  salt. 

Steam  3  hours  and  bake  ^  hour.     If  the  milk  is  very  sour,  use  ^ 
sweet  milk. 

BROWN  BREAD  No.  4. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  |  cup  wheat  flour. 

2  cups  graham  flour.  2  tablespoons  brown  sugar. 
1  teaspoon  salt.                                   1  large  teaspoon  soda. 

^  cup  molasses,  scant. 

Steam  2|  hours,  and  bake  -|  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 
Take  1  cup  each  of  cornmeal,  rye  meal  and  graham  meal;  mix  all 


270  BREADS 

three  together;  mix  in  1  cup  molasses,  3  cups  rich  sour  milk,  1  des- 
sertspoon soda,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Put  it  in  a  covered  pail,  leaving 
room  for  it  to  rise,  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  putting  a  ring  un- 
der the  pail  to  keep  it  from  burning;  boil  4  hours,  and  do  not  once 
et  the  water  stop  boiling,  and  do  not  remove  the  cover  till  done. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD  No.  2. 
Take  2  cups  cornmeal,  and  the  same  of  either  rye  or  graham 
flour;  sift  together  with  1  teaspoon  salt;  add  1  cup  molasses,  f  cup 
sour  milk  or  cream,  1  teaspoon  soda  (dissolved  in  a  little  boiling 
water);  mix  all  well  and  add  2^  cups  cold  water;  pour  into  a  well 
greased  pan  and  steam  4  hours.  It  will  look  thin  when  ready  to 
steam,  but  will  come  out  all  right. 

CORN  BREAD. 
Warm  1  pint  of  milk,  stir  in  enough  cornmeal  to  make  a  thin 
batter,  add  ^  cup  shortening,  3  eggs,  1  heaiaing  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder;  heat  the  tins  it  is  to  be  baked  in,  and  bake  quickly.  It  is 
splendid,  and  bakes  promptly.  As  a  rule  corn  bread  requires  a 
longer  time  to  bake  than  either  graham  or  wheat  bread. 

CORN  BREAD  No.  2. 

Mix  ^  cup  cornmeal  with  1  cup  white  flour,  and  add  1  teaspoon 
salt.  Beat  together  till  light,  1  egg  and  2  tablespoons  sugar;  add  3 
tablesjioons  melted  butter,  and  |  cup  sweet  milk;  then  stir  in  the 
above  flour  mixture,  beat  smooth  and  add  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der. Put  into  greased  pans,  and  bake  ^  hour  in  a  moderately  quick 
oven. 

STEAMED  CORN  BREAD. 

Take  2  cups  sour  milk,  2  cups  cornmeal,  ^  cup  white  flour,  4 
tablespoons  molasses,  2  teaspoons  soda,  a  little  salt;  steam  1^  hours, 
and  bake  ^  hour. 

WHITE  CORN  BREAD   (Southern). 
2  cups  white  cornmeal,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  white  flour.  1  teaspoon  sugar. 

1  tablespoon  baking  powder.  Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Use  milk  or  water  to  make  a  soft  dough;  bake  in  a  loaf,  or  if 
preferred,  in  shallow  baking-tins. 

KENTUCKY  EGG  CORN  BREAD. 

Take  2  pints  cornmeal,  3  cups  buttermilk,  1  or  2  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoon soda  (scant),  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  lard;  mix  well,  and 
bake  quickly. 


BREADS  271 

RICE  BREAD. 

Boil  1  lb.  rice  till  tender  in  water  or  milk  (milk  is  best)  and 
mash  it;  then  with  the  hands,  rub  the  rice  into  4  lbs.  flour,  in  the 
same  manner  that  butter  is  rubbed  in,  mixing  it  thoroughly;  add  3 
teaspoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon  salt,  and  1  cake  compressed  yeast  dis- 
solved in  2  pints  lukewarm  milk  or  water,  have  the  dough  soft  to  the 
touch,  knead  thoroughly,  and  let  it  rise,  then  knead  again  thor- 
oughly, form  into  loaves,  put  into  greased  pans,  let  rise,  and  bake  in 
a  good  oven.     Excellent,  especially  if  made  with  milk. 

CAROLINA  RICE  BREAD. 

Take  3  well=beaten  eggs,  add  3  cups  sweet  milk,  2  cups  white  corn- 
meal,  ^  pint  cold  boiled  rice;  1  tablespoon  butter,  melted,  1  teaspoon 
salt;  beat  together  well,  and  add  1  tablespoon  baking  powder;  mix 
all  thoroughly,  put  in  greased  pans,  and  bake  |  hour. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

3  cups  sour  milk.  1  cuj)  molasses. 

2  teaspoons  soda.  1  egg. 

1  teaspoon  salt, 

Graham  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  bake  slowly. 

GRAHAM  BREAD  No.  2. 
Make  a  stiff  batter  of  1  cup  warm  water  thickened  with  graham 
flour;  add  to  it  ^  cup  of  yeast;  let  it  rise  over  night;  in  the  morning 
add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  ^  cup  sugar,  and  wheat  flour  to  mold; 
put  it  in  well  greased  pans,  let  it  rise,  and  bake  slowly  1  hour.  Gra- 
ham bread  bakes  slower  than  white  bread. 

GLUTEN  BREAD. 

Scald  2  cups  milk  and  add,  when  lukewarm,  1  teaspoon  salt  and 
i  cup  good  yeast;  make  it  to  a  thick  batter  by  adding  gluten  flour, 
and  beat  thoroughly;  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Knead  (without  adding  more 
flour),  let  stand  until  light;  turn  into  well  greased  pans,  let  rise 
again,  and  then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  |  hour. 

OATMEAL  BREAD. 

Boil  2  cups  oatmeal  as  for  jDorridge,  add  ^  teaspoon  salt,  and 
when  cool,  ^  cup  molasses,  and  |-  a  yeast  cake  or  ^  cup  yeast;  stir  in 
enough  wheat  flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  it  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon; 
put  it  into  2  well  greased  tin  pans,  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  till 
very  light;  bake  about  1^  hours.  Do  not  cut  until  the  day  after  it  is 
baked.  This  will  make  delicious  thin  slices;  butter  each  slice  before 
cutting  it  from  the  loaf,  and  then  cut  as  thin  as  possible  with  a  very 
sharp  knife. 


•!72  BREADS 

RYE  BREAD. 

Bread  made  of  bolted  rye  flour  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as 
white  wheat  bread;  that  made  from  rye  meal  is  made  according  to 
recipes  for  graham  bread.  Rye  bread  is  often  made  with  4  parts  rye 
flour,  1  part  cornmeal,  and  a  handful  of  wheat  flour.  It  should  bake 
2  or  3  hours  in  a  slow  oven;  or  steam  it  2  hours,  and  then  bake  1 
hour. 

PUMPKIN  BREAD. 

Make  a  plain  corn-bread  batter;  beat  into  it  1  cup  of  stewed 
pumpkin  (that  left  from  dinner  will  do).  Bake  in  either  the  bread 
pan  or  in  gem  tins. 

SQUASH  BREAD. 

Take  1  cup  stewed  and  sifted  squash,  and  mix  in  2  tablespoons 
of  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  salt;  melt  1  tablesiDoon  butter  in  1|  cups 
scalded  milk,  and  when-  lukewarm,  add  ^  cup  yeast,  and  flour  enough 
to  knead;  knead  ^  hour,  let  rise  till  light;  knead  again,  put  it  into 
greased  tins,  let  rise  again,  and  bake. 

UTILIZING  STALE  BREAD. 
(1)  Bread  crumbs  can  be  utilized  in  so  many  ways  that  every 
piece  of  stale  bread  and  the  ends  of  loaves  should  be  saved  and  pre- 
pared for  use  in  the  various  dishes  which  call  for  bread  crumbs. 
(2)  Put  the  stale  bread  on  a  baking4in,  and  set  it  on  the  shelf  in 
the  oven  where  it  will  dry  and  slightly  brown;  when  thoroughly 
crisp,  place  it  on  the  molding=board,  roll  it  finely,  and  keep  it  in  a 
jar  well  covered.  These  are  dried  bread  crumbs  and  should  not  be 
used  for  scalloped  dishes  or  bread  puddings,  as  they  absorb  so  much 
moisture.  (3)  Stale  bread  crumbs  can  be  made  into  griddle  cakes; 
or  used  in  an  omelet;  or  used  with  stewed  tomatoes,  and  in  many 
ways. 

Steamed  Stale  Bread — When  bread  or  biscuit  become  very  dry  they 
may  be  steamed  a  few  minutes,  which  will  make  them  very  palat- 
able. Stale  i3ieces  can  be  freshened  by  dipping  them  in  water,  and 
putting  them  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  A  stale 
whole  loaf  can  be  freshened  in  this  way  without  first  dipping  in 
water,  although  many  cooks  are  not  aware  of  it;  for  this  purpose 
the  oven  should  not  be  too  hot — say  260°  to  300°  is  best.  The 
steam  which  is  generated  opens  out  the  pores  which  had  shrunk 
together.  Or  put  a  stale  loaf  in  a  deep  pan,  cover  with  another  pan, 
and  set  in  a  moderate  oven  20  minutes;  then  take  from  the  pan  and 
set  on  (^nd  to  cool;  it  will  cut  like  a  fresh  loaf. 


BISCUITS  273 

BISCUITS. 

Time  to  Bake  Biscuits,  about  10  to  20  minutes. 

BAKINQ=POWDER  BISCUITS — Have  the  oven  hot  to  begin 
with,  then  rub  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  English  walnut  into 
a  cup  of  flour,  and  butter  your  baking-tins  Next  put  a  level  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  in  the 
flour,  and  stir  it  well.  U]p  to  this  time  you  can  work  leisurely,  but 
from  this  onward,  work  as  fast  as  you  can  "  fly."  Add  a  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  stir  it,  and  add  enough  more  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough; 
take  it  out  onto  the  molding-board,  and  form  it  quickly  into  a  round 
mass;  cut  it  in  2  parts,  then  4,  then  8;  give  the  pieces  just  a  roll 
in  the  floured  hands,  put  it  in  the  tin,  and  bake  8  or  10  minutes.  The 
oven  should  brown  them  top  and  bottom  in  that  time.  Everybody 
likes  them. 

CREAM  BISCUIT.— To  1  quart  of  flour  use  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  rich  sweet  cream  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

BEAT  BISCUIT — Take  2  quarts  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  ta- 
blespoon of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of  lard  rubbed  in  the  flour;  mix 
to  a  stiff  dough  with  water.  Beat  with  the  rolling-pin  until  perfect- 
ly light,  turning  and  folding  as  you  work;  do  not  cut  the  dough, 
but  break  off  pieces  and  form  into  little  biscuits,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  BEAT  BISCUIT.— Take  1  quart  whole  wheat 
flour,  3  rounded  tablespoons  lard,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  1  cup  each  of  water  and  milk;  mix  thoroughly,  lay  it  on  the 
molding^board,  and  beat  with  the  rolling=pin  until  it  ceases  to  be 
sticky;  roll  out,  cut  into  biscuits  (be  sure  and  thoroughly  prick 
each  one),  and  bake  f  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

For  Wafers  take  some  of  the  dough  so  prepared,  roll  thin,  but- 
ter it,  beat  again,  roll  very  thin,  cut  out,  and  bake. 

RAISED  BISCUIT — Set  a  sponge  of  2  cups  milk,  a  little  salt 
and  -^  cake  compressed  yeast,  and  let  it  rise;  beat  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg  with  2  tablespoons  sugar  and  1  egg;  stir  them  into  the  sponge, 
adding  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  stir  well,  let  it  rise,  and  when 
light,  take  dough  enough  with  a  spoon  for  each  biscuit,  work  light- 
ly into  shape,  put  in  a  pan,  let  rise,  and  bake. 

MILK  BISCUIT.— Rub  ^  lb.  butter  and  1  saltspoon  of  salt  into 
2^  lbs.  flour;  add  1    cup   yeast   and   enough   boiled   milk    (have   it 

18 


271  BUNS,  RUSKS,  EOLLS,  ETC 

lukewarm  wlien  used)  to  make  a  tolerably  stiff  dougli;  kuead  well, 
let  it  rise  over  night,  knead  again  in  the  morning,  put  into  greased 
tins,  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

BUTTERMILK  BJSCUIT.— Sift  4  cups  flour,  add  1  teaspoon 
soda,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  and  rub  in  one  tablespoon  lard,  and  1  tablespoon 
butter ;  make  into  a  soft  dougli  v\^ith  buttermilk,  roll  out,  cut  out,  and 
bake  quickly. 

DROP  BISCUIT.— Take  1  cup  milk,  1  level  teaspoon  salt,  1 
tablespoon  baking  powder  stirred  into  1  cup  flour ;  beat  all  together, 
and  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  in  spoonfuls  on  a 
buttered  tin  and  bake  quickly  in  a  hot  oven. 

Drop  Biscuit  No.  2.— Take  1  quart  flour,  add  1  tablespoon 
sugar,  ^  teaspoon  oalt,  3  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  milk 
sufficient  to  form  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  in  spoonfuls  on  a  buttered 
tin,  and  bake  in  a  very  quick  oven. 

SHORTCAKE  BISCUIT.— To  4  cups  flour  use  1  large  tablespoon 
butter,  a  little  salt,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder  (heaped),  and  milk 
enough  to  roll  out  as  soft  as  possible. 

SODA  BISCUIT. — Into  4  cups  sifted  flour  sift  1  teaspoon  soda, 
2  teaspoons  cream  tartar  and  1  teaspoon  salt;  rub  in  with  the  hand  1 
tablespoon  lard  or  butter;  make  it  into  a  soft  dough  with  sweet  milk. 

GRAHAM  BISCUIT — Use  2  cups  graham  flour,  2  cups  wheat 
flour,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  molasses,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2 
teaspoons  cream  of  tartar  (or  3  teaspoons  baking  powder  instead),  a 
little  salt;  sift  the  last  3  ingredients  into  the  wheat  flour,  add  the 
graham  flour,  rub  into  the  butter  thoroughly,  moisten  with  milk  or 
water  to  make  a  dough  just  stiff  enough  to  roll  out;  roll  thin,  cut  in 
small  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Double  this  recipe  if  the 
family  requires  it. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI  BISCUIT.— Mix  bits  of  fruit  liberally  into  the 
dough  of  common  soda  biscuit  before  baking  it,  as  fruit  is  put  into 
cake;  very  nice.  Tea  rolls  are  nice  v\'ith  fruit  put  in  in  the  same 
way. 

BUNS,  RUSKS,  ROLLS,  ETC. 

BUNS. 

Time  to  Bake,  20  to  30  minutes. 

PLAIN. — Use  1  quart  flour,  1  large  cup  warm  milk,  J  cup  butter 
or  lard,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  ^  cup  sugar,  i  a  grated  nutmeg,  i  a  yeast 
cake  (or  ^  cup  yeast),  2  eggs;  dissolve  the  butter  in  the  milk,  boat 


BUNS,  RUSKS,  ROLLS,  ETC.  275 

the  eggs  separate,  add  all  to  the  flour;  the  dough  should  be  very 
soft;  knead  well,  let  rise  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  break  into 
pieces  the  size  of  a  large  egg,  work  them  into  rather  flat  cakes,  put 
them  on  a  buttered  pan,  about  ^  inch  apart,  let  rise  to  double  size, 
then  cut  a  cross  on  top  of  each  bun  (not  too  deep)  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  25  minutes. 

ENGLISH  BUNS — Use  |  teacup  butter  rubbed  into  1  pint 
flour,  I  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  Zante  currants  washed  and  dr:'  3d,  1  level 
teaspoon  salt,  2  cups  new  milk,  ^  cup  good  yeast;  mix  a'  i  together, 
and  add  enough  flour  to  mold  into  a  soft  dough,  let  rise  till  light, 
mold  down  again,  keeping  the  dough  as  soft  as  possible,  roll  out,  and 
cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Let  them  rise  till  very  light  in  the  bak- 
ing=tins,  and  bake  until  they  are  a  nice  yellowish  brown  on  top  and 
bottom — about  25  minutes.  Brush  them  over  to  glaze  with  a  little 
sugar  and  milk  mixed,  and  return  to  the  oven  till  the  glazing  dries. 

CINNAMON  BUNS.— Rub  ^  teacup  butter  into  a  coffee  cup  of 
flour;  add  a  little  salt,  and  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder; 
then  add  a  coffee  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  enough  flour  to  roll  out  into 
a  large  thin  sheet.  Spread  with  soft  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
cinnamon,  roll  up,  and  cut  into  buns.     Bake  about  20  minutes. 

RUSKS. 
Time  to  Bake,  20  to  30  minutes. 

PLAIN.— Into  1  quart  of  flour  rub  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
large  egg;  beat  2  eggs  well,  add  2  cups  warmed  new  milk,  flavor  with 
a  little  cinnamon,  and  add  |  teacup  of  fresh  yeast;  mix  thoroughly 
with  the  flour,  but  do  not  mold;  let  it  rise,  and  add  a  little  more  flour 
if  too  thin  to  mold,  cut  in  jpieces  the  size  of  biscuits,  knead  each  one 
separately,  place  in  a  buttered  pan,  let  rise  till  quite  light  and  bake. 

BAKING  PPWDER  RUSK.— Sift  2  tablespoons  sugar,  |  teaspoon 
salt,  and  1  tablespoon  baking  powder  into  3  cups  flour,  and  then  rub 
in  2  tablespoons  cold  lard;  add  2  well^beaten  eggs,  2  cups  sweet  milk, 
1  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  extract;  mix  into  a  dough 
soft  enough  to  handle,  and  turn  out  on  the  molding  board;  turn 
quickly  once  or  twice  to  smooth  it,  break  off  pieces  about  the  size  of 
an  egg,  roll  into  small  balls  with  the  hand,  and  lay  close  together  in 
a  well  greased  baking-tin.  Wash  over  the  top,  to  glaze  it,  with  a 
little  milk  and  melted  butter  mixed;  bake  ^  hour  in  a  moderate  oven 
Sift  fine  white  sugar  on  top  when  cold. 

BRIOCHES. 

Dissolve  ^  a  yeast  cake  in   1   teacuji  of  lukewarm  water;  mix 


276  BUNS,  KUSKS,  KOLLS,  ETC. 

with  enough  flour  to  make  a  thick  sponge,  cover  with  a  cloth,  and  let 
rise  in  a  warm  place  till  it  doubles  in  bulk;  then  add  ^  teacup  milk, 
5  eggs,  1  saltspoon  salt,  and  ^  lb.  dissolved  butter;  beat  all  together 
well,  add  flour  to  make  a  dough,  and  let  rise  again  1  to  1|  hours; 
then  turn  on  to  the  molding=board,  flour  as  little  as  possible,  and  roll 
the  sides  over  into  the  middle  several  times.  Then  form  into  tiny 
loaves,  laying  1  flattened  ball  of  dough  onto  a  little  larger  loaf, 
making  an  indentation  for  it  in  the  center  of  the  lower  one  with  the 
thumb.  Brush  over  with  white  of  egg,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven — 
about  ^  hour. 

ROLLS. 
Time  to  Bake  rolls,  10  to  20  minutes. 

FRENCH  ROLLS.— Rub  1  ounce  butter  in  1  quart  flour;  mil 
in  1  beaten  egg,  a  little  yeast,  and  as  much  milk  as  will  make  a 
rather  stiff  batter;  beat  well,  but  do  not  knead,  let  rise,  and  then 
bake  in  tins.     Very  nice. 

COFFEE  ROLLS.— Take  1  quart  of  light  dough,  mix  in  1 
tablesx)oon  of  lard  and  |  cup  of  sugar;  then  roll  thinner  than  biscuit, 
spread  with  butter,  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  sprinkle  a  little  flour 
over.  Roll  up  2  turns  and  cut  off,  standing  them  on  end  in  the  tin; 
let  rise,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

GRAHAM  ROLLS — Mix  4  cups  graham  flour  with  enough  milk 
to  make  a  stiff  batter;  add  \  cup  good  yeast  and  let  rise  over  night; 
in  the  morning  add  1  large  tablespoon  sugar,  2  eggs,  .butter  size  of 
an  egg,  \  teaspoon  soda,  and  a  little  salt;  put  it  in  cups  and  let  stand 
20  minutes  before  baking. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS.— Make  a  hole  in  2  quarts  of  flour, 
and  pour  in  1  pint  of  milk  which  has  been  boiled  and  -|  cup  butter  or 
lard  melted  in  it  and  allowed  to  cool;  add  ^  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  and  ^  cup  good  yeast;  let  it  stand  over  night  without  mixing;  in 
the  morning,  mix  and  knead;  let  rise  till  after  dinner,  when  knead 
again,  roll  ^  inch  thick,  cut  out,  and  let  rise  till  baked.  Bake  about 
\  hour. 

CRACKERS. 

PLAIN. — Into   2   quarts   flour   rub   well  with   the   hand  1  cup 

butter,  and  1   teaspoon  salt;  wet  with  cold   water,   beat  thoroughly 

,  with  the  rolling=pin,  and  work  in  flour  enough  to  make  quite  brittle 

and  hard;  then  pinch  off  pieces,  and  if  you  want  them  to  look  like 

baker's  crackers,  roll  each  piece  separately. 


JOHNNY  CAKE,  PONES,  ETC.  277 

CORN=STARCH  CRACKERS.— Sift  together  3  cups  flour,  1  cup 
corn-starch,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  and  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder;  rub  into  this  1  tablespoon  lard,  and  add  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  mixing  it  to  a  smooth  dough;  slightly  flour  the  bread-board, 
turn  out  the  dough,  and  get  it  into  smooth  and  even  form  with  as 
little  kneading  as  possible;  then  spread  a  clean  towel  over  it  and 
let  it  stand  10  minutes.  Then  roll  very  thin  with  the  rolling-pin, 
cut  with  the  cutter,  prick  with  a  fork,  and  put  them  on  a  greased 
baking- tin;  wash  the  top  of  the  crackers  over  with  milk,  and*  bake  8 
minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven.  These  make  a  delightful  accompani- 
ment for  salads. 

GRAHAM  CRACKERS. — Sift  1  heax^ing  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der and  1  even  teaspoon  salt  into  4  cups  sifted  graham  flour;  rub  in 
I  cup  butter  or  lard,  and  make  into  a  stiff  dough  with  sweet  milk  or 
cold  water;  knead  10  minutes,  using  white  flour  to  prevent  its  adher- 
ing to  the  board;  roll  thin,  cut  in  squares,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

TO  FRESHEN  CRACKERS.— Stale  crackers  may  be  freshened 
by  putting  them  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  It  is  not  necessary 
to  moisten  them. 

GKAHAM  DIAMONDS. 

To  4  cups  graham  flour  add  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  sugar, . 
and   pour  on   boiling  water  to  scald    thoroughly;    work  into  a  soft 
dough,  roll  out  |  inch  thick,  cut   into  diamonds  with  a  sharp  knife, 
and  bake  30  minutes  in  a  quick  oven,  or  till  crisp. 


JOHNNY   CAKE,  PONES,   ETC. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. 
Time  to  Bake,  20  to  30  minutes. 

Use  1  cup  sour  milk,  3  tablesjooons  molasses,  1  egg,  -J  teaspoon 
soda;  add  cornmeal  sufficient  to  make  a  thin  batter. 

POTATO  JOHNNY  CAKE.— To  2  cups  finely  mashed  potatoes 
add  2  cups  flour  in  which  has  been  mixed  ^  cuiJ  of  lard;  add  niilk 
enough  to  mix,  and  -^  teaspoon  salt ;  roll  out  and  bake  in  a  well  heated 
oven.     Butter  and  eat  hot. 

Johnny  Cake,  No.  3 — Use  1  egg,  l  cup  sugar,  a  little  salt,  1  cup 
milk,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  -^  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  cornmeal,  1  cup 
white  flour;  bake  in  a  shallow  pan  in  a  quick  oven. 


278  JOHNNY  CAKES,  PONES,  ETC. 

Fruit  with  Johnny  Cake — Dried  fruit,  such  as  raisins,  currants, 
etc.,  added  to  johnny  cake,  is  a  pleasant  addition  for  a  change. 

CORN  AND  GRAHAM  JOHNNY  CAKE. 

3  good  cups  cornmeal.  3  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

2  good  cups  graham  flour.  2  heaping  teaspoons  soda. 
1  good  cup  white  flour.  1  good  teaspoon  salt. 

3  eggs.  1  quart  sour  milk  (part  of  which 
^  cup  molasses.  may  be  sour  cream  if  it  is  to 

•  be  had). 

SPIDER  CAKE. 

This,  as  the  name  implies,  is  baked  in  a  spider,  or  short  handled 
frying-pan.  Beat  2  eggs  very  light,  add  1  cup  sour  milk,  and  1  cup 
sweet;  stir  into  this  2  cups  cornmeal,  and  a  handful  of  flour,  1  table- 
siDoon  sugar,  and  1  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  soda;  mix,  and  beat 
thoroughly,  and  then  pour  it  into  the  spider,  which  should  be  already 
hot  and  well  greased.  After  the  butter  is  in  the  spider,  pour  over  it 
1  cup  sweet  milk,  but  do  7iot  stir-  it  into  the  hatter.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  I  hour.  Take  it  from  the  pan  onto  a  plate,  being  careful  not 
to  break  it. 

RICE  SPIDER  CAKE — Use  1  cup  boiled  or  steamed  rice,  1  cup 
yellow  cornmeal  (the  granulated  is  best),  2  cujjs  sweet  milk,  1  table- 
spoon sugar,  1  tablespoon  baking  powder,  and  1  level  teasfDoon  salt; 
mix  all  thoroughly,  and  add  at  least  a  handful  of  flour.  After  beat- 
ing in  the  flour,  j)ut  the  batter  in  a  hot  buttered  spider,  or  short 
handled  frying=pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  |  hour.  The  batter  must 
be  thin  enough  to  "  run  "  a  little,  but  not  as  soft  as  for  griddle  cakes. 
If  needed  to  make  it  thinner,  when  the  flour  is  added,  put  in  a  little 
more  milk;  if  too  thin  add  a  little  more  flour. 

FLORIDA  CORN  CAKE. 
.  1  egg.  1  teaspoon  sugar. 

1  cup  milk  or  water.  2  cups  white  cornmeal. 

1  tablespoon  salt  pork  fat.  1  tablespoon  baking  powder. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  all  thoroughly,  and  bake  in  2  thin  cakes. 

CORN  PONE. — Into  2  cups  of  corn  meal  mix  1  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  1  teaspoon  sugar;  scald  with  2  cups  boiling  water,  and  let  stand 
till  it  swells  and  becomes  lukewarm ;  then  add  a  ^  oz.  cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water;  if  too  stiff  reduce  it 
with  warm  water  to  a  consistency  sufficient  to  retain  its  form;  then 
put  it  in  the  baking^pan,  let  rise  4  or  5  hours,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 


JOHNNY  CAKES,  PONES,  ETC.  279 

oven  till  thoroughly  done.     Pone  should  be  eaten  fresh  and  warm, 
but  is  very  nice  toasted,  after  it  is  a  day  old. 

FLORIDA  PONE— Mix  1  tablespoon  of  baking  powder  and  1 
teaspoon  salt,  into  2  cups  of  white  cornmeal.  Mix  with  sufficient 
water  to  make  a  thick  batter,  and  beat  in  a  tablespoon  of  hot  salt 
pork  fat.  Make  in  a  thin  cake,  and  bake  until  well  browned.  Deli- 
cious with  meat. 

HOE  CAKE. — Into  a  mixing=bowl  put  4  cups  white  cornmeal 
and  one  teaspoon  salt;  make  it  to  a  stiff  batter  with  hot  water,  stir- 
ring it  all  the  time.  Have  a  pan  of  cold  water  ready,  moisten  the 
hands,  and  then  with  the  hands  press  a  tablespoon  of  the  batter  into 
a  round,  thin  cake.  Bake  on  a  griddle  over  the  fire,  or  on  an  oak 
board  before  an  open  fire,  thoroughly  baking  first  one  side  and  then 
the  other.     Pull  apart  when  done,  butter,  and  serve  hot. 

BAKED  BUCKWHEAT  CAKES — Mix  in  the  mixing=bowl  | 
cup  buckwheat  flour,  1  cup  white  flour,  and  1  heaping  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder;  add  -J  cup  light  brown  sugar,  1  egg  well  beaten,  and  8 
tablespoons  melted  butter  or  lard;  mix  all  together  well,  and  add 
enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  batter  that  will  pour  and  spread  slowly, 
but  not  as  thin  as  for  griddle  cakes;  hake  in  a  deep  tin  in  a  rather 
hot  oven,  allowing  plenty  of  room  for  it  to  rise.  Eat  hot  with  butter. 
Try  this  once  and  you  will  be  surprised  at  its  quality.  By  using  corn- 
meal instead  of  the  buckwheat  a  fine  corn  cake  is  made. 

CORN  DODGERS — Into  a  mixing-bowl  put  1  pint  white  corn- 
meal; scald  by  adding  just  enough  boiling  water  to  moisten  the  meal, 
stirring  it  all  the  time;  work  in  1  tablespoon  butter  or  lard,  and 
when  cool  add  1  well^beaten  egg,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  2  tablespoons 
milk;  mix  well,  put  by  spoonfuls  into  a  large,  well  greased  baking- 
pan,  and  bake  brown  on  both  sides. 

INDIAN  BANNOCK — Mix  1  cup  boiling  milk,  |  pint  cornmeal, 
1  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  sugar;  when  partially  cooled,  add  2  eggs, 
beaten  separately;  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  in  a  shallow  earthern 
dish;  serve  like  a  pudding,  in  the  dish  it  is  baked  in. 

GREEN  CORN  PATTIES.— For  every  cup  of  grated  green  corn 
allow  1  egg,  \  cup  of  milk  and  1  cup  of  flour;  1  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder  should  be  well  mixed  with  the  flour.  Stir  all  together  until 
well  mixed,  then  bake  in  buttered  patty^pans.  This  recipe  can  be 
doubled,  if  the  family  to  be  served  requires  it. 


280  GEMS,  MUFFINS,  SCONES,  ETC. 

GEMS,  MUFFINS,  SCONES,  ETC. 

Time  to  Bake,  ^  to  ^  hour. 

WHEAT  GEMS.— Beat  1  eg^  light,  add  2  cups  milk  and  1  tea 
spoon  salt,  and  gradually  beat  it  into  2  cups  wheat  flour;  put  it  into 
hot,  well  greased  gem=pans,  and  bake  about  20  minutes. 

Wheat  Gems  No.  2.— Use  2  cups  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt;  flour  to  thicken. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. — Use  2  cups  sour  milk,  o  cups  graham  flour 
I  teaspoon  soda;  beat  together  a  few  minutes,  drop  it  into  hot 
greased,  gem^pans,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  10  or  15  minutes. 

MUFFINS  {White  Flour). 

1  cup  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  f)owder. 
2|  cups  flour.  1  cup  milk. 

2  eggs.  Butter  the  size  of  amegg. 

Bake  in  cups,  or  hot  gem=]pans. 

Muffins  No.  2. — Into  3  cups  flour  sift  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
and  a  little  salt;  add  2  eggs  and  2  cups  milk;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  in 
rings  or  gem4ius. 

TEA  MUFFINS — Work  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  2  cups 
flour;  add  \  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  2  even  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  and  stir  together  thoroughly ;  beat  1  egg,  add 
to  it  1  cujD  milk,  mix  it  with  the  flour  quickly,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven.  This  will  make  1  cake  in  a  brickshaped  baking=pan;  then  cut 
in  squares  with  a  hot  knife. 

BUCKWHEAT  MUFFINS.— To  1  pint  of  sour  milk  and  cream 
mixed,  add  1  even  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  soda,  and  make  a  stiff 
batter  with  buckwheat  flour.  Bake  in  a  square  tin,  in  a  hot  oven, 
about  I  hour;  cut  in  squares,  and  serve  hot,  with  fried  salt  pork,  and 
milk  gravy  made  in  the  fat.  This  can  also  be  made  with  the  pre- 
pared buckwheat  flour,  by  making  a  stiff'  batter  with  sweet  milk,  salt 
and  shortening;  put  in  a  hot  gem=pan,  and  serve  with  butter,  or  milk 
gravy.     A  good  breakfast  dish. 

GKAHAM  MUFFINS. 

3  cups  graham  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  cup  white  flour.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  sugar. 

Mix  all  together.  Then  take  a  jaiece  of  butter  the  size  of, an  egg 
and  put  it  into  1  pint  of  sweet  milk;  set  it  on  the  stove  until  the  but- 
ter is  melted;  when  cool,  mix  all  together  with  2  eggs,  and  bake. 


GEMS,  MUFFINS,  SCONES,  ETC.  281 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS  No.  2. 

2  cups  graham  flour.  1  tablespoon  melted  shortening. 

1  cup  white  flour.  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

2|  cups  sour  milk.  1  tablespoon  soda.     Salt. 

CEREALINE  MUFFINS— Take  1|-  cups  flour  and  sift  in  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  2  teaspoons  baking  f)owder. 
To  1  well  beaten  egg  add  |  cup  cold  milk.  Into  1  cup  hot  milk  stir 
1  cup  of  cerealine  and  add  2  teaspoons  of  butter.  Stir  all  together, 
beat  well,  put  into  well  buttered  pans,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Time  to  bake,  about  30  minutes. 

CORNMEAL  MUFFINS — Use  1  egg,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups 
granulated  yellow  cornmeal,  1  cup  white  flour,  1  level  teaspoon  salt, 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  2  teaspoons  baking  x^owder.  Butter  the  gem= 
pan  and  have  it  hot  before  putting  in  the  batter;  bake  -|  hour  in  a 
hot  oven. 

Cornmeal  Muffins  No.  2. — Use  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  cup  corn- 
meal,  1  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  j)owder,  ^  tablesiDoon  butter, 
^  teaspoon  salt,  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

RAISED  MUFFINS.— To  2  cups  scalded  milk,  add  butter  or 
dripping  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  1  teaspoon  salt;  when  lukewarm  add 
I  of  a  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  ^  teacup  warm  water,  or  ^  teacup  of 
liquid  yeast;  add  1  egg  and  about  4  cups  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a 
batter  that  will  drop  easily,  remembering  that  it  is  thinner  after 
rising.  Beat  all  well  together,  let  rise  till  light,  and  bake  in  buttered 
muffin  rings  on  a  griddle,  or  in  a  gem=pan.  Do  not  stir  it  down  before 
baking;  mix  at  night  for  breafast,  and  in  the  morning  for  supper. 

RICE  MUFFINS — Use  1  cup  cold  boiled  rice,  2  cups  flour,  2 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  quart  milk,  or  enough  to 
make  a  thin  batter;  bake  quickly. 

RYE  MUFFINS — Sift  together  1  cup  wheat  flour,  ^  cup  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  -|  teaspoon  soda,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  add  1  cup 
rye  meal  (not  flour);  beat  1  egg,  add  1  cup  milk,  add  it  to  the  other 
ingredients,  beat  well,  put  in  hot,  greased  muffin  tins,  and  bake  20 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

GLUTEN  MUFFINS — To  1  egg,  beaten  light  without  separa- 
ting, add  1  pint  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  1  pint  gluten  flour;  beat 
well,  add  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  pour  into  well  greased,  hot 
muffin  ring^,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  ^  hour. 

ENTIRE    WHEAT   MUFFINS.— Mix  together    1^  cups  wheat 


282  GEMS,  MUFFINS,  SCONES,  ETC. 

flour,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  sift  them  into  a  bowl.  Then  beat  1  egg  till  light,  and  add 
1  cup  milk  and  ^  cup  of  water;  pour  this  on  to  the  first  mixture,  and 
beat  rapidly  and  energetically.  Have  buttered  muffin=pans  ready, 
pour  in  the  batter,  and  bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven  about  25  min- 
nutes.  The  batter  will  be  thin,  and  the  muffins  moist,  but  that  is 
right. 

ENGLISH  CRUMPETS — In  3  cups  lukewarm  milk,  put  1  salt- 
spoon  salt,  and  ^  a  yeast  cake  dissolved,  or  |  cup  liquid  yeast;  let 
rise  till  light,  and  add  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  and  a  trifle  of 
flour  to  keep  the  batter  from  becoming  too  thin;  stir  in  hard,  1  salt- 
spoon  soda,  let  stand  ^  hour,  and  bake  in  patty^pans,  or  muffin=rings. 

GRAHAM  CRUMPETS — Dissolve  ^  cup  butter  in  1  quart 
scalded  sweet  milk,  and  when  cool,  add  1  cake  compressed  yeast 
(soaked  in  a  litte  water),  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  2  tablespoons  sugar; 
add  enough  graham  flour  to  make  a  rather  stitf  batter,  and  beat 
hard  a  few  minutes;  let  rise  over  night  in  a  warm  place,  and  in  the 
morning  add  2  well=beaten  eggs;  put  in  buttered  gem-tins,  let  rise 
till  light,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

2^  cups  flour.  ^  cup  sugar. 

1  egg  well  beaten.  8  tablespoons  butter  (melted), 

1  cujo  sweet  milk.  1^  teaspoons  cream  tartar, 

f  teaspoon  soda. 

Bake  20  minutes  in  muffin^rings,  or  in  square  pie=x3ans. 

CORNMEAL  SCONES — Mix  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tea- 
spoon salt  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  into  1  pint  cornmeal;  rub  in 
with  the  hand  1  tables^ooon  butter;  make  it  into  a  batter  that  will 
drop  from  a  spoon  (not  pour)  with  cold  milk;  bake  like  ordinary 
muffins  in  muffin=rings  on  a  griddle. 

SCOTCH  SCONES — Into  2  cups  flour  sift  2  small  teaspoons 
baking  powder;  rub  in  with  the  hand  4  tablespoons  butter,  adding  a 
little  milk  to  bind  the  paste;  flour  the  bread=board  and  pin,  roll  out 
f  inch  thick,  cut  into  small  3=cornered  pieces  with  a  sharp  knife; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  on  a  baking  sheet,  taking  out  as  soon  as  they 
are  lightly  and  evenly  colored. 

OATMEAL  CAKES — Use  2  cups  of  oatmeal,  2  tablespoons 
shortening  (either  butter,  beef  fat,  or  salt  pork  fat).  RiTb  the  fat 
into  the  meal;  add  cold  water  enough  to  make  a  dough.  Mold  until 
smooth,  roll  out  thin,  cut  into  rounds  or  squares,  and  bake  quickly  in 
a  hot  oven. 


GRIDDLE  CAKES  283 

Oatmeal  Cakes  No.  2 — Stir  oatmeal  with  cold  water,  making  a 
tliick  paste;  salt  to  taste.  Make  into  little  round  cakes,  about  ^  inch 
thick,  in  tin  bake^pans,  and  bake  in  an  oven  not  too  hot. 

POP  OVERS — Use  1  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  flour,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon 
butter,  a  pinch  of  salt;  beat  the  white  and  yolk  of  the  egg  separately 
until  very  light,  then  beat  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

BREAKFAST  PUFFS — Use  1  cup  milk,  1|  cups  flour,  2  eggs, 
^  teaspoon  salt;  beat  5  minutes,  and  bake  in  gem=pans. 

BREAD  PUFFS.— Take  light  bread  dough,  roll  out  about  |  inch 
thick,  cut  with  a  biscuit-cutter,  drop  into  boiling  lard,  and  turn  over 
very  quickly. 


GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

To  Keep  Buckwheat  Batter  Sweet — Cover  with  cold  water  the  batter 
left  after  you  are  done  baking  cakes;  drain  it  off  carefully  at  night 
before  stirring  up  fresh  batter;  the  batter  settles  at  the  bottom,  while 
the  water  absorbs  the  acid,  thus  keeping  the  batter  sweet  and  fresh. 

A  Substitute  for  Maple  Syrup. — Take  2  cups  light  brown  sugar  and 
1  cup  of  water  and  boil  until  a  nice  thick  syrup;  then  flavor  with  a 
teaspoon  of  vanilla,  when  nearly  cold.  Nice  with  griddle  cakes  and 
hot  biscuits.     Use  other  flavoring  if  desired. 

ImitatioQ  Maple  Syrup — Boil  clean  corn  cobs  in  water;  then  remove 
the  cobs,  add  light  brown  sugar  and  boil  to  a  nice,  thick  syrup.  One 
can  hardly  tell  it  from  genuine  maple  syrup.  The  cobs  give  the 
maple  flavor.     The  syrup  is  delicious.     Try  it. 

Caramel  Syrup,  a  recipe  for  preioaring  which  we  give  among  our 
"  Pudding  Sauces,"  is  fine  with  griddle  cakes. 

It  is  said  that  a  common  iron  griddle,  ground  down  smooth  on  a  grindstone 
and  then  polished  with  fine  sand  paper  on  a  flat  piece  of  wood,  is  superior  to  a 
soapstone  griddle,  and  can  be  used  without  grease. 

If  buckwheat  batter  has  a  small  spoonful  of  molasses  added  to  it  each  morn- 
ing, it  will  give  the  cakes  a  fine  brown  color.  Grease  the  griddle  evenly,  and  do 
not  leave  pools  of  fat  to  burn  and  taint  the  cakes.  Turn  the  griddle  often,  to 
keep  it  evenly  heated  on  all  sides;  have  it  hot  enough,  so  the  mixture  hisses  or 
sizzles  as  it  touches  it.  Do  not  turn  the  griddle  cakes  more  than  once,  as  that  will 
them  heavy. 


APPLE  GRIDDLE  CAKES.— Put  1  cup  finely-chopped  apple  in 
1  quart  of  any  griddle  cake  batter;  distribute  it  evenly  by  stirring 
with  the  spoon  every  time  a  spoonful  is  taken  out. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES.— Use  1  quart  buckwheat  flour,  ^  cup 
cornmeal,  1  tablespoon  salt,  4  tablespoons  yeast,  1  tablespoon  mo- 
lasses (not  syrup);    mix  with  warm  water  enough  to  make  a  thin 


284  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

batter,  and  let  rise  over  night  in  a  warm  place.  If  the  batter  is  the 
least  bit  sour  in  the  morning,  a  little  soda  should  be  ddded,  and  if 
not  sour,  a  very  little  soda  will  make  them  more  light  and  tender. 

QUICK  BUCKWHEAT  CAKES — To  2  cups  of  buckwheat  flour, 
add  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  1  tablespoon 
brown  sugar  (or  New  Orleans  molasses  instead);  when  ready  to  bake, 
add  2  cu^js  cold  water,  or  enough  to  make  a  batter,  stirring  as  little 
as  possible  after  it  is  stirred  smooth.  Wheat  flour,  cornmeal,  or 
graham  flour,  may  be  added,  if  desired. 

CORNMEAL  GRIDDLE  CAKES.— Use  1  pint  cornmeal,  |  pint 
sour  milk  and  1  teaspoon  soda  in  the  milk,  stirred  until  it  foams,  2 
eggs  beaten  until  light,  salt  to  taste;  have  the  griddle  hot  and  well 
greased.  About  1  tablespoon  of  wheat  flour  added  to  the  cornmeal  is 
an  improvement. 

Cornmeal  Griddle  Cakes  No.  2 — Use  1  cup  sweet  milk,  or  cold 
water,  1  egg,  2  cups  yellow  cornmeal,  ^  cup  flour,  1  tablespoon  salt, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Strawberries  and  Griddle  Cakes. — If  you  want  a  delightful  dish,  use 
hot  cornmeal  griddle  cakes,  strawberries,  sugar  and  cream,  and  com- 
bine them  sandwich  fashion. 

STALE  BREAD  GRIDDLE  CAKES.— Soak  2  cups  stale  bread 
crumbs  for  1  hour  in  1  quart  of  milk  which  has  been  made  boiling 
hot  to  pour  over  them;  beat  2  eggs  till  light,  yolks  and  whites  sei^a- 
rate;  into  the  soaked  l?reacl=batter  put  first  the  beaten  yolks,  then  3 
ounces  flour,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  scant  teaspoon  salt;  beat 
thoroughly,  and  then  stir  in  very  lightly  2  teaspoons  baking  x^owder 
and  the  beaten  whites.  Grease  the  griddle,  and  bake  quickly  in 
small  cakes.  These  are  about  the  lightest  and  most  digestible  grid- 
dle cakes  that  are  made. 

OATMEAL  GRIDDLE  CAKES.— Use  1  cup  oatmeal,  1  cup 
flour,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  |-  teaspoon  salt; 
sift  the  baking  powder  in  with  the  flour;  add  cold  water  to  make  a 
batter  the  consistency  of  buckwheat  cakes;  beat  together  well,  and 
bake  immediately. 

GRAHAM  GRIDDLE  CAKES.— Use  *  graham  and  I  wheat  flour; 
mix  with  sour  milk,  or  buttermilk,  and  soda  (1  small  teaspoon  soda 
to  1  quart  milk);  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  1  egg.     Bake  immediately 
'  on  a  hot  gric'dle. 

RICE  GRIDDLE  CAKES.— To  1  cup  boiled  rice  add  |  cup 
milk,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  flour  and  a  little  salt;  then 


WAFFLES  285 

beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  them  with  the  other 
ingredients  and  fry  as  soon  as  possible  after  they  are  added,  on  a 
hot,  buttered  griddle.  These  are  light,  digestible,  and  especially 
nice  for  invalids. 

RAISED  GRIDDLE  CAKES.— At  night  scald  1  cup  white  corn- 
meal  with  2  cups  boiling  water;  while  warm  stir  in  2  cups  flour,  2 
cups  milk,  2  tablespoons  brown  sugar,  and  2  tablespoons  yeast;  let 
it  rise  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  add  2  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and 
»^  teaspoon  baking  powder;  if  too  thin,  add  cornmeal  till  it  is  of  the 
right  consistency. 

SQUASH  GRIDDLE  CAKES.— Into  1  cup  boiled  and  sifted 
squash  (use  dry,  mealy  squash)  pour  -|  pint  boiling  milk;  add  1 
tablespoon  sugar,  2  teaspoons  butter,  ^  teaspoon  salt;  let  it  cool  and 
add  1  welhbeaten  egg,  and  1  cup  flour  into  which  2  teaspoons  of  bak- 
ing powder  have  been  sifted.  If  too  thick,  thin  with  milk;  add 
more  flour  if  too  thin. 

Pease  Griddle  Cakes  can  be  made  the  same  way,  by  using  instead 
of  the  squash,  1  cui3  pease  which  have  been  boiled,  mashed,  and 
passed  through  the  squash  strainer. 

FLANNEL  CAKES.— Make  a  batter  with  -|  pint  milk,  and  -| 
pint  flour  with  1  teaspoon  of  soda  sifted  into  it;  beat  in  1  teaspoon 
melted  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  1  egg;  add  more  milk  if  the  batter  is 
too  thick;   bake  on  a  griddle. 


WAFFLES. 

Grease  the  waffle  iron  thoroughly,  as,  if  the  waffles  stick  it  is 
hard  to  clean.  Use  salt  pork  fat,  or  butter  wrapped  in  a  thin  clean 
cloth.  Heat  the  iron  well,  both  sides,  grease  it  and  only  fill  about  ■§ 
full,  leaving  room  for  them  to  rise;  cook  one  side  a  minute,  then  turn 
and  cook  the  other.  They  will  take  longer  to  bake  than  griddle 
cakes. ,  Butter  as  soon  as  done,  and  sprinkle  on  powdered  sugar,  or 
serve  with  lemon  syrup,  maple  syrup  or  caramel  sauce. 

WAFFLES  NO.  i — Into  4  cups  flour  sift  2  teaspoons  baking 
j)owder,  and  1  teaspoon  each  of  sugar  and  salt;  add  2  eggs,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  and  1  cup  either  sweet  or  sour  milk;  if  the  later,  use 
1  teaspoon  soda. 

No  2. — Use  2  cups  buttermilk,  flour  enough  to  make  a  rather 
thin  batter,  1  teasxjoon  each  of  salt  and  soda,  1  egii;;  stir  the  milk, 
flour   and    salt  toirether,  sift  llie  t^oda  in  the  batter,  beat  volk  and 


286  MUSH,  ETC. 

white  separately,  and  add  the  white  last.  Have  the  waffle  irons  very 
hot,  and  well  greased,  before  putting  in  the  batter.  Salt  or  water 
will  cause  the  waffles  to  stick  to  the  irons;  the  batter  is  also  apt  to 
stick  if  sour.  If  the  milk  is  very  sour  a  little  more  soda  than  the 
above  can  be  used.     Some  people  use  sweet  milk,  and  prefer  it. 

RAISED  WAFFLES.— To  2  cups  of  flour  add  2  cups  of  milk 
and  5  tablespoons  yeast;  let  rise  over  night,  and  in  the  morning 
add  2  teaspoons  melted  butter,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  and  2  eggs,  whites 
and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

CORN=STARCH  WAFFLES — Make  a  batter  with  2  cups 
(heaped)  corn=starch,  1  scant  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  a  little  lemon  fla- 
vor, adding  milk  as  needed;  warm  the  molds,  butter  them  out  and 
fill;  close  them,  place  on  the  fire,  then  turn  them  over;  repeat  this 
until  they  are  evenly  baked:   dust  sugar  over  them  when  done. 

CORNMEAL  WAFFLES — Take  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs,  2 
pints  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  and  enough  cornmeal  to  make  a  bat- 
ter a  trifle  thicker  than  for  griddle  cakes;  dissolve  1  teaspoon  soda 
in  warm  water,  stir  it  into  the  milk,  and  add  a  little  salt.  Use  ^ 
wheat  flour  if  they  break  in  pieces  while  cooking. 

RICE  WAFFLES. — Use  2  eggs,  |  cup  boiled  rice,  1^  cups  flour, 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  a  little  salt, 
1^  cups  milk;   mix  well  and  bake  immediately. 

RICE  AND  CORNMEAL  WAFFLES.— Use  2  welbbeaten  eggs, 
"I  pint  cold  boiled  rice,  ^  pint  cornmeal,  ^  jDint  wheat  flour,  ^  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter, 

2  cups  milk;   beat  together  thoroughly  before  baking. 


MUSHES,  ETC. 

As  the  grain  of  which  mush  is  made  is  coarsely  ground,  in  order 
to  cook  the  starch  properly  and  soften  the  cellulose,  long  boiling  is 
required.  Thorough  cooking  is  the  most  important  point  connected 
with  its  preparation. 

CORNMEAL  MUSH — Have  the  water  coiling,  and  nothing 
short  of  boiling  with  sufficient  salt  in  the  water  for  seasoning.  Stir 
the  meal  gradually,  sifting  it  slowly  through  the  fingers  of  the  left 
hand  while  stirring  with  the  right.  Use  a  kettle  with  a  rounding 
bottom.  Do  not  make  it  too  thick  if  it  is  to  be  eaten  with  milk,  or 
with  sugar  and  milk  for  dessert.       If  it  is  to  fry,  1  or  2  haudiuls  of 


MUSHES  287 

flour  added  at  the  last  will  improve  it.  Mush  should  cook  very  thor- 
oughly; after  it  is  thickened  enough,  set  it  on  top  of  the  stove  where 
it  will  cook  slowly  1  or  2  hours;  stir  often. 

No  2. — Mix  1  cup  corhmeal  and  1  teaspoon  salt  to  a  paste  with 
a  little  cold  water;  then  pour  on  2  pints  boiling  water,  put  it  in  a 
double  boiler,  and  boil  4  or  5  hours.  If  the  water  cooks  away  add 
more  boiling  water  from  the  teakettle.  There  is  no  danger  of  its 
burning  in  the  double  boiler.  Anything  will  cook  faster  in  the 
double  boiler,  if  the  water  in  Hie  lower  boiler  is  strongly  salted. 

FRIED  MUSH Put  the  mush  in  brick=shaped  baking4ins  used 

for  bread,  and  when  cold  and  solid  cut  in  slices.  The  old  way  has 
been  to  fry  the  slices  on  a  spider  or  on  a  griddle  with  salt  pork  fat. 
A  better  way  is  to  cut  the  slices  a  little  less  than  |-  inch  thick;  dip 
them  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  like 
doughnuts  in  hot  fat.  Oatmeal  or  other  mushes  may  be  fried  in  the 
same  way. 

GREEN  CORN  MUSH.— Take  corn  on  the  cob  when  the  milk  is 
just  set,  grate  it  and  make  mush  in  the  ordinary  way;  eat  in  milk. 
Excellent. 

OATMEAL  MUSH — Put  |  pint  oatmeal  and  1  teaspoon  salt  into 
the  double  boiler;  add  4  cups  boiling  water,  set  the  upper  part  of  the 
boiler  on  the  stove  and  boil  4  or  5  minutes  to  start  the  cooking; 
then  put  it  into  the  lower  boiler  and  cook  3  to  5  hours;  salting  the 
water  in  the  lower  boiler  makes  it  cook  faster.  It  is  often  cooked 
so  that  the  grains  are  whole,  but  it  is  not  then  so  easily  digested, 
nor  so  pleasant  in  flavor.  It  should  be  thin  enough  to  pour  when 
done,  and  should  cool  into  a  jelly4ike  consistency.  Serve  with 
sugar  and  cream,  tart  jelly,  apple  sauce  or  baked  apples.    ■ 

Oatmeal  with  Figs — Add  to  oatmeal  5  or  6  figs  cut  fine;  cook  in 
the  usual  way  and  serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

GRAHAM  MUSH — Use  a  little  cold  water  and  mix  to  a  thin 
paste  ^  pint  graham  flour  and  1  teaspoon  salt;  stir  in  4  cups  boiling- 
water,  and  cook  like  oatmeal  mush,  but  it  does  not  need  to  cook  so 
long.  Time  to  cook,  about  20  minutes.  Just  before  taking  graham 
mush  from  the  fire,  stir  in  stoned  dates,  and  you  will  find  it  makes 
a  very  nice  pudding. 

BUCKWHEAT  MUSH.— Mush  made  of  buckwheat  flour  is  made 
in  the  same  way  as  cornmeal  mush,  but  requires  less  cooking. 
When  cold  it  can  be  fried,  if  desired,  like  cornmeal  mush. 


288  MUSHES 

GLUTEN  MUSH. — Use  2  cups  boiling  water  to  1  cup  gluten' 
cook  like  graliani  musl?.  It  does  not  thicken  because  it  contains  no 
starch. 

RYE  MUSH. — Cook  as  directed  for  graham  mush.  It  is  served 
with  molasses  often. 

HOMINY  MUSH. — Cook  in  a  double  boiler  3  or  4  hours  as  di- 
rected for  oatmeal  mush,  using  a  little  over  4  times  its  bulk  of 
water,  and  salt  to  taste.  (For  the  long  cooking  absolutely  necessary 
with  corn  preparations,  the  double  boiler  is  much  the  best  thing  to 
use.)  It  can  be  eaten  in  bowls  with  milk,  or  for  dessert  with  hard 
sauce.     When  cold,  it  can  be  fried  as  directed  for  cornmeal  mush. 

CRACKED  WHEAT.— Pick  over  ^  pint  cracked  wheat,  put  it  in 
a  double  boiler,  add  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  8  cujds  boiling  water,  and 
cook  it  2  or  3  hours.  It  cooks  best  in  a  double  boiler.  Serve  with 
sugar  and  cream.  It  can,  if  desired,  be  poured  into  cups  or  jelly- 
molds,  wet  with  cold  water,  and  so  molded. 

FARINA. — Into  2  cu^js  boiling  water,  j)ut  |  saltspoon  salt,  and 
3  tablespoons  farina;  let  it  actually  boil  in  a  sauce=i3an  20  minutes,  or 
cook  1  hour  in  a  double  boiler.     Serve  with  sugar  and  milk  or  cream. 

WHEATLET  WITH  DATES.— Into  4  cups  boiling  water  put  1 
teaspoon  salt  and  stir  in  1  cup  wheatlet;  cook  it  in  the  double  boiler 
30  minutes.  Have  1  cup  dates  stoned  and  cut  small,  and  stir  them 
in  just  before  serving.     Serve  with  cream. 

GRANULA — To  1  cup  granula  add  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  1-|  cups 
boiling  water,  and  boil  10  to  15  minutes;  this  is  better  than  to  boil  it 
1  minute  in  milk  as  is  often  recommended.  It  is  a  jjreparation  of 
grain  prepared  by  dry  heat,  and  is  cooked  nearly  enough  when 
bought. 

WHEAT  GERM — Use  1^  cups  boiling  water,  ^  teaspoon  salt, 
and  ^  cup  wheat  germ,  and  boil  30  minutes  in  an  uncovered  sauce- 
pan, or  1  hour  in  a  double  boiler;  it  is  doubtful  if  it  is  wholesome 
cooked  in  the  short  time  directed  on  the  packages. 

Imperial  Granum  can  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

HULLED  CORN. — Soak  a  quart  of  yellow  corn  over  night;  the 
next  morning  pour  off  the  water  and  i3ut  the  corn  in  a  kettle  of  hot 
water  containing  a  cheese-cloth  bag,  holding  a  pint,  or  a  little  more, 
of  clean  wood  ashes.  Boil  until  the  hulls  begin  to  come  off,  then 
pour  off  the  lye;  rub  the  corn  well  in  cool  water  to  remove  the 
hulls,  then  boil  again  in  clear  water  until  soft,  changing  the  wat«v 


TOAST  289 

once  or  twice  to  take  out  the  taste  of  the  lye  as  much  as  possible. 
Hulled  corn  is  eaten  with  milk  like  mush,  and  like  mush  it  is 
fried  when  cold, 

HASTY  PUDDING.— Into  2  cups  cold  milk,  stir  2  cups  corn- 
meal,  2  teaspoons  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt;  gradually  stir  this  into  4  cups 
boiling  water,  and  boil  30  minutes,  stirring  it  frequently.  It  can 
be  fried  when  cold  as  directed  for  cornmeal  mush. 


TOAST. 

Simple  as  the  process  of  making  it  seems,  perfect  toast  is  very 
rare.  Good  toast  should  be  crisp  and  golden  clear  through,  not 
brown  outside  and  clammy  in  the  center.  Use  stale  bread,  cut 
even  slices  J  inch  thick,  heat  them  gradually  at  first,  so  that  the 
heat  may  penetrate  to  the  center  of  the  slice  and  evaporate  the 
water  before  the  outside  is  crusted  over;  dry  it  carefully  and,  lohen 
well  dried,  move  it  near  the  coals  (which  should  be  clear  and  red), 
and  it  will  quickly  turn  a  golden  brown. 

Toast  is  often  eaten  which  is  cut  in  thick  slices,  browned  outside,  and  left  clam- 
my in  the  center.  Such  toast  is  less  wholesome  than  untoasted  bread,  and  is 
wholly  unfit  for  invalids,  although  healthy  stomachs  may  cope  with  it.  Well  made 
toast  is  very  easy  of  digestion,  and  well  suited  for  invalids,  because  starch,  when 
heated  to  401°,  is  turned  to  dextrin,  and  that  is  much  more  easily  digested  than  the 
starch.  The  object  should  be  to  turn  as  much  of  the  starch  as  possible  to  dextrin, 
and  clear  through  the  bread,  not  merely  a  little  on  the  outside.  A  little  caramel  is 
also  developed  usually  in  toasting  bread. 

Some  people  prefer  toast  soft  inside  and  browned  outside,  because  they  say  it 
is  easier  to  eat,  but  if  you  will  try  it  you  will  find  good,  dry  toast  easily  breaks  and 
crumbles  apart,  and  is  readily  moistened  by  the  saliva.  For  invalids  always  instead 
of  leaving  toast  soft  inside,  it  is  better  to  toast  the  bread  well,  and  then  dip  it  in 
hot  water  for  an  instant  to  moisten  it,  but  do  not  soak  it. 

If  possible,  serve  dry  toast  directly  from  the  fire;  if  not,  pile  it  on  a  plate,  lay  a 
napkin  over  it,  and  set  it  in  the  oven,  or  on  the  hearth  to  keep  warm.  Be  careful 
not  to  burn  the  outside  while  toasting  bread.  For  ordinary  use  (not  for  invalids) 
the  thicker  slices  of  bread,  less  perfectly  toasted,  can,  of  course,  be  eaten  by  those 
who  prefer  them. 

WATER  TOAST. — Prepare  a  pan  of  boiling  hot  water,  adding  al- 
ways 1  teaspoon  salt  to  the  quart  of  water.  Toast  bread,  dip  in  each 
slice  quickly,  moistening  it  merely,  but  do  not  let  it  soalc,  as  sloppy, 
sodden  toast  is  not  good.  Butter  each  slice  and  pile  them  on  a  hot 
plate.  Apple  sauce,  baked  apples,  poached  eggs,  and  minced  meats 
go  with  this  kind  of  toast. 

MILK  TOAST — For  plain  milk  toast,  toast  the  bread,  and  pour 
•)  or  4  tablespoons  of  boiling  salted  milk  or  cream  on  each  slice. 
The  toast  can  be  buttered  or  not,  as  loreferred,  before  pouring  on  the 

I'j 


290  SANDWICHES 

hot  milk.  Crackers  can  be  split,  toasted,  and  prepared  in  the  same 
way.  Or,  scald  the  milk,  add  for  each  pint  1  tablespoon  corn^starch 
or  flour  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water,  1  teaspoon  butter,  and  ^  tea- 
spoon salt;  prepare  the  toast,  moisten  it,  dip  each  slice  in  the  hot, 
thickened  milk,  put  all  in  a  dish,  and  pour  the  balance  of  the  thick- 
ened milk  over  it.     Serve  hot. 

CREAM  TOAST. — Put  2  cups  milk  into  a  sauce^pan  and  bring  it 
to  a  boil;  while  it  is  heating,  put  1  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and 
flour  in  another  sauce-pan,  stir  them  together  gently  while  the  but- 
ter is  melting,  and  then  let  them  bubble  2  or  3  minutes  together; 
then  add  the  hot  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  it  in  well  till  it  is 
smooth  and  free  from  lumps;  let  it  simmer  while  preparing  the  toast. 
Toast  the  bread,  soak  it  thoroughly  in  salted  boiling  milk  (as  the 
cream  will  be  too  thick  to  soften  [it),  put  it  in  a  dish,  and  pour  the 
prepared  cream  over  and  between  the  slices. 

MERINQUED  TOAST — Prepare  a  meringue  by  dissolving  1  tea- 
spoon butter  in  -^  cup  boiling  milk,  and  just  before  taking  it  from 
the  fire,  stir  in  the  well-beaten  white  of  1  egg;  pour  this  over  fresh- 
ly4oasted  bread,  which  has  been  dipped  in  slightly  salted  water;  put 
it  in  the  oven  5  minutes,  and  delicately  brown  the  meringue. 

VERMICELLI  TOAST — Pass  the  yolk  of  hard:=boiled  eggs 
through  a  coarse  strainer;  it  will  fall  out  in  broken  threads,  looking 
something  like  vermicelli ;  scatter  it  over  cream  toast. 

TOASTED  GRAHAM  GEMS — Split  the  gems,  toast  nicely, 
and  while  they  are  toasting,  heat  some  rich  milk  to  the  boiling  point, 
add  a  little  salt,  butter,  and  thicken  with  flour  moistened  with  cold 
milk,  and  pour  over  the  toasted  gems.  Gems  left  one  day  may  be 
thus  utilized  for  the  next  day's  breakfast. 

STRAWBERRY  TOAST — Toast  thick  slices  of  bread,  butter 
them,  and  pile  them  with  alternate  layers  of  strawberries,  crushed 
and  sweetened  as  for  shortcake,  with  strawberries  on  top;  serve  with 
cream,  at  once  and  while  hot. 


SANDWICHES. 

Bread  for  sandwiches  should  be  one  day  old,  and  a  brick-sbaped 
loaf  is  the  best.  Cut  the  crust  from  the  end,  then  spread  the  end  of 
the  loaf  evenly  with  softened  butter,  or  compounds  of  butter,  sea- 
soned meat,  etc.,  if  desired,  then  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  the  buttered 
slice  from  the  loaf.     In  this  way  the  bread  is  not  broken,  as  it  is  apt 


SANDWICHES  291 

to  be  if  very  tender,  wlien  spread  after  slicing.  Spread  and  cut  in 
this  way  until  the  loaf  is  used.  Place  two  of  the  spread  slices  to- 
gether, press  firmly,  and  trim  in  any  way  liked.  They  may  be  cut 
in  rounds  or  heart-shaped  with  biscuit  cutters;  the  crust  may  be 
trimmed  off  and  the  sandwiches  cut  from  corner  to  corner,  making 
triangles,  or  for  ordinary  occasions  they  may  be  left  un trimmed, 
as  many  persons  prefer  them  with  the  crusts. 

For  hearty,  hungry  children,  nothing  is  better  for  luncheons, 
picnic  refreshments,  etc.,  than  sandwiches.  Spread  evenly  the  end 
of  a  loaf  of  good  home=made  bread,  a  day  old,  then  cut  it  off  ^  inch 
thick,  spread  another  slice  with  butter,  place  boiled  ham,  cold 
tongue,  roast  beef  or  chicken,  on  one  slice,  cover  it  with  another,  and 
press  tightly  together;  roll  each  one  in  buttered  pajDer,  or  all  together 
in  a  clean  napkin.  To  keep  them  moist  until  eaten,  put  them  after 
wrapping,  into  a  tin  pail,  and  cover  tightly. 

If  the  meat  used  for  filling  sandwiches  is  chopped  fine  it  will  be 
much  more  convenient  to  eat.  In  putting  up  sandwiches  for  picnics, 
etc.,  it  will  add  to  their  appearance  to  tie  them  with  ribbon  in  pack- 
ages; a  different  colored  ribbon  can  be  used  effectively  for  each  kind 
of  sandwich 

Although  it  is  a  little  more  trouble  to  make  them,  sandwiches 
can  be  improved  both  in  appearance  and  flavor  by  cutting  thin  slices 
of  bread  into  small  square,  oval,  or  round  pieces,  and  frying  them  in 
smoking  hot  fat  to  a  light  golden  brown;  then  drain  on  blotting 
paper.  These  pieces  can  be  made  into  anchovy,  lobster,  egg,  salmon, 
chicken  or  other  sandwiches,  piled  high  on  plates  with  bright  greeii 
parsley  around  the  base.  Such  sandwiches  are  admirably  adapted 
for  evening  parties,  and  will  be  more  appreciated  than  second  and 
third  rate  sweets. 

Mustard  or  Anchovy  Butter  for  sandwiches  may  bs  prepared  as  fol- 
lows: For  mustard  butter,  take  soft  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and 
2  tablespoons  of  good  mustard,  put  them  in  a  stone  mortar  and  work 
them  together  with  the  pestle  till  perfectly  mixed.  For  anchovy  but- 
ter, take  the  same  amount  of  butter  and  1  teaspoon  of  anchovy  paste, 
and  work  them  together  in  the  same  way.  Same  i)^'^roi"tions  for 
larger  quantities. 

ABERDEEN  SANDWICHES — Put  in  the  chopping^bowl  cold 
meat,  either  of  veal,  ham,  beef  or  poultry,  and  chop  it  very  fine;  for 
1  teacup  of  chopped  meat,  add  to  it  a  piece  of  softened  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  with  1  or  2  spoons  of  water  to 
slightly  moisten  it,  and  1  teacup  of  fine  bread  crumbs;  chop  and  mix 
all  to  a  paste.     Take  a  bit  of  the  mixture  on  the  molding- board,  and 


292  SANDWICHES 

with  a  knife  wet  in  hot  water,  form  it  into  a  strip  about  3  inches 
long  and  2  wide.  Trim  off  the  edges,  detach  it  from  the  board  with 
a  knife,  and  roll  into  an  oblong  shape.  If  it  is  too  dry  to  roll 
without  cracking,  add  a  little  more  water;  if  too  wet,  add  more  bread 
crumbs.     These  are  served  with  lettuce,  or  cresses. 

ANCHOVY  AND  EQG  SANDWICHES.— Bone  anchovies,  steep 
them  in  milk  for  2  hours  and  chop  fine;  also  mince  hard4)oiled  eggs 
very  fine;  sprinkle  the  chopped  egg  on  a  slice  of  buttered  bread, 
cover  with  the  anchovy,  add  pepi^er  and  a  layer  of  mustard  and  cress, 
and  lay  on  the  other  slice  of  buttered  bread. 

BAKED  SANDWICHES.— Sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  on  thin 
slices  of  cold  meat,  put  them  between  thin  slices  of  bread,  form 
them  into  a  pile  5  or  6  inches  high,  fasten  them  together  with  a 
skewer,  and  brown  them  until  the  bread  is  crisp,  in  a  hot  oven,  first 
basting  them  with  melted  butter. 

CHEESE  SANDWICHES — Mix  together  I  lb.  of  grated  cheese, 
and  ^  teaspoon  each  of  pepper,  salt  and  mustard,  add  1  tablespoon 
each  of  vinegar  and  melted  butter,  make  it  to  a  paste,  and  spread  it 
thin  on  the  buttered  bread. 

DATE  SANDWICHES.  — Seed  choice  dates,  press  flat,  and 
spread  between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

EGG  SANDWICHES.— (1)  Put  between  buttered  slices  of  bread 
moderately  thin  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  seasoning  them  with  salt, 
pepper  and  nutmeg.  (2)  Chop  the  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs  very 
fine;  mash  the  yolks,  and  mix  with  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 
If  not  smooth  enough,  add  thick  cream.  Spread  the  paste  on  the 
bread. 

FISH  SANDWICHES.— Use  any  kind  of  cooked  fish,  chop  it 
fine,  make  it  into  a  soft  paste  with  butter,  and  season  it  well. 

GINGER  SANDWICHES — Use  the  preserved  ginger  which 
comes  in  small  jars;  cut  very  thin,  and  put  between  slices  of  buttered 
bread.     Cover  with  a  damp  napkin  until  ready  to  serve. 

HAM  SANDWICHES — Boil  the  ham  the  day  before,  slice  it  as 
thin  as  possible,  and  lay  it  between  the  thin,  buttered  slices  of  bread. 
Spread  on  a  little  mustard,  or  not,  as  preferred.  Chopped  ham 
sandwiches  can  be  made  by  chopping  the  ham  as  fine  as  grated 
cheese,  and  making  it  to  a  paste  with  malted  butter,  or  butter  and 
cream,  or  beaten  egg,  as  preferred,  with  mixed  mustard,  pepper,  and 
a  little  finely  chopped  pickle.      Then  spread  the  paste  on  the  bread. 


SANDWICHES  298 

HONOVER  SANDWICHES.— To  tlie  well-beaten  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  add  ^  lb.  best  butter,  3  tablespoons  mixed  mustard,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt;  beat  all  together  very  smoothly,  and  set  on  ice_ 
Spread  it  on  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  put  between  the  slices  very 
finely  chopped  tongue  and  ham,  to  which  a  little  chicken  or  roast 
beef  is  added.  This  makes  a  delicious  sandwich.  Thin  slices  of 
pressed  beef  may  also  be  used. 

LABETTE  SANDWICHES — Spread  Devonshire  cream  on  thin 
buttered  slices  of  l)rowii  bread;  then  spread  on  apricot  jam,  being- 
careful  that  there  are  no  lumps  in  it,  then  lay  on  another  slice  of 
buttered  bread,  and  press  together. 

LETTUCE  SANDWICHES — Put  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  between 
thin  slices  of  buttered  bread;  serve  as  soon  as  possible  after  prepar- 
ing.    Add  a  mayonnaise  dressing  if  preferred. 

Various  sandioicJies  can  be  thus  made  by  using  instead  of  the 
lettuce,  the  plumed  tops  of  young  white  celery;  or  nastni'tium 
leaves;  or  young  dandelion  leaves;  or  i^eppergrass;  or  water-cress; 
and  so  on. 

LOBSTER  SANDWICHES.— Pound  together  in  a  mortar  until 
quite  smooth  ^  lb.  lobster  meat,  the  yolks  of  2  hard=boiled  eggs,  2  oz. 
butter,  5  capers,  pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Spread  thinly 
on  slices  of  bread  and  butter,  si3rinkle  with  a  very  little  chopped 
mustard  and  cress,  if  liked,  cover  with  another  slice  of  bread  and 
butter,  cut  neatly,  and  serve. 

NUT  SANDWICHES.— Grate  English  walnuts  or  pecans,  mix 
with  salt  and  a  little  cream  or  milk,  and  spread  it  on  thin  slices  of 
buttered  brown  bread. 

Almonds  or  peanuts  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

PEANUT  SANDWICHES.— Kemove  the  shells  and  brown  skins, 
roll  the  peanuts  moderately  fine,  but  not  to  powder,  pour  on  any 
good  salad  dressing,  and  spread  between  slices  of  bread.  Make 
almond  or  walnut  sandwiches  the  same  way. 

SALMON  SANDWICHES.— Drain  all  the  oil  from  canned 
salmon,  remove  all  skin  and  bone,  reduce  it  to,  a  jjaste;  season,  spread 
some  on  one  slice  of  buttered  bread,  squeeze  lemon  juice  over  it,  and 
lay  on  the  other  buttered  slice  of  bread. 

SARDINE  SANDWICHES.— (1)  Drain  the  sardines  from  the 
oil,  put  them  in  hot  water  a  few  minutes  which  will  take  out  the 
grease,  drain  them,  dry  in  a  cloth,  and  pound  to  a  paste;  season  with 


294  SANDWICHES 

salt  and  pepper,  add  a  little  very  finely  chopped  lettuce,  and  spread 
it  on  the  bread.  (2)  Chop  the  fish  fine,  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice,  and  cover  the  buttered  bread  with  it. 

TOMATO  SANDWICHES.— (1)  Spread  a  French  dressing  over 
the  buttered  slices  of  bread,  and  put  slices  of  tomatoes  between  them. 
(2)  Put  potted  beef  on  the  lower  buttered  slice,  lay  on  thin  slices 
of  tomatoes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  on  the  top  slice, 

VARIOUS    SANDWICHES A   little   ingenuity  will  invent  an 

almost  endless  variety  of  new  and  attractive  sandwiches.  We  sug- 
gest a  few  more.  (1)  Prawns  or  shrimps  may  be  used  instead  of 
lobsters.  (2)  Fresh  caviare  spread  on  bread  and  butter,  with  a 
squeeze  of  lemon,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  if  liked,  a  little  minced 
salad,  is  excellent,  (8)  Slices  of  cucumber,  dressed  with  oil  and 
vinegar,  make  a  delicious  sandwich.  (4)  Use  yolks  of  eggs 
pounded  with  butter  and  Parmesan  cheese.  (5)  Make  pate  de  foie 
gras  sandwiches,  with  or  without  water=cress,  (6)  Make  salmon  or 
shrimp  sandwiches  with  mayonnaise  sauce  and  minced  salad.  (7) 
Put  kippered  salmon  in  thin  shreds  between  slices  of  hroimi  bread 
and  butter.  (8)  Vary  any  sandwich  by  using  mayonnaise,  bechamel 
or  other  sauoe. 


PASTRY. 


Tr%  OTWITHSTANDING  the  frequent  denunciations  of  pastry 
I  \^y      for  its  unliealthf ulness,  people  will  eat  pie,  and  a  thorough 

JLV  knowledge  of  pastry^making  is  indispensable  to  the  econom- 
ical housewife.  To  succeed  in  this,  certain  rules  must  be 
remembered  and  implicitly  carried  out.  The  excellence  of  puff  paste 
depends  upon  the  quality  of  the  materials  used,  the  lightness  of 
hand  and  dexterity  of  the  operator,  and  the  coldness  of  the  materials. 
The  hands  should  be  washed  very  clean,  and  then  dipped  into  very 
hot  and  then  into  cold  water.  The  mixing=bowl  should  also  be  filled 
with  hot,  and  then  with  cold  water,  which  makes  it  smooth  and  pre- 
vents the  butter  from  sticking.  The  slab  or  board  for  working  upon 
should  be  smooth,  clean  and  dry.  A  marble  slab  is  better  than  a 
board  because  it  keeps  the  pastry  cooler,  but  few  can  command  this, 
and  a  board  is  more  frequently  used. 

The  Flour. — The  flour  used  should  be  of  a  fine  quality,  and  should 
be  thoroughly  sifted,  dried  and  chilled.  For  making  paste  a  starchy 
flour  is  better  than  one  rich  in  gluten,  and  that  is  what  is  meant  by 
pastry  flour.  Although  eggs  are  commonly  used  in  paste,  they  are 
really  not  necessary,  and  a  good  paste  can  be  made  without  them. 
The  butter  should  be  of  good  quality  and  pliable,  or  it  will  not  mix 
properly  with  the  pastry. 
Work  it  in  clear,  cold 
water,  to  free  it  from  salt 
and  buttermilk,  and  the 
pastry  will  then  be  more 
delicate;  then  keep  it  cold 
until  used. 

Method  of  Making  Paste. 
— The  method  of  making 
paste  is  as  follows:  For 
the  best  paste  use  1  lb.  of 
butter  to  1  lb.  of  flour  (if 
measured  use  2  pints  flour 
to  1  pint  butter).  Take  1 
lb.  of  the  washed  butter,  flatten  it  out,  press  it.  on  all  sides  to  remove 
the  moisture,  keep  out  about  2  or  3  oz.  and  put  the  balance  in  a 
floured  cloth  on  ice  till  needed.     Now  put  the  1  lb.  of  sifted  and 

296 


FIG.  1.  PASTE  FOLDED  OVEB  THE  BUTTER. 


296 


PASTRY 


chilled  flour  into  the  mixing^bowl,  keeping  out  about  2  oz.  for 
sprinkling  the  board  with,  x^ut  in  the  3  oz.  of  butter  and  1  small  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  the  eggs  if  they  are  used,  and  with  the  tips  of  the 
fingers  work  them  into  the  flour.  Many  chop  these  ingredients  to- 
gether to  avoid  heating  them  with  the  fingers.  Add  a  little  ice  cold 
water  occasionally,  and  keep  mixing  until  a  perfectly  smooth  paste  is 
formed,  A  cup  of  water,  more  or  less,  will  be  needed.  When  the 
paste  is  of  the  right  consistency,  and  forms  a  smooth  ball,  dust  the 
board  lightly  with  flour,  and  remove  the  paste  on  to  it,  and  pound  it 
lightly  with  the  rolling-pin  to  toughen  it.  Then  roll  it  out  about  \ 
inch  thick,  always  using  a  well-floured  rolling=pin,  and  rolling  from 
you.  Then  take  the  cold  butter  and  roll  it  out  in  the  same  way,  only 
smaller,  and  lay  it  upon  the  paste,  and  fold  the  ends  of  the  paste  over 
the  butter  as  shown  in  Fig.  1.  on  p.  295.  (The  butter  is  sometimes 
cut  into  4  pieces  and  only  1  piece  worked  in  at  a  time,  but  the  meth- 
od would  be  the  same.)  Then  turn  it  bottom  up  on  the  board,  and 
roll  it  out  carefully,  using  a  light,  quick  stroke,  and  being  careful 
not  to  break  the  paste,  as  the  aim  should  be  to  keep  all  the  air  pos- 
sible inside,  to  assist  in  making  it 
rise.  If  by  accident  the  dough 
breaks,  lay  on  a  piece  of  plain 
dough  (a  little  plain  dough  may 
be  kept  out  for  this  purpose),  dust 
on  flour,  and  go  on  with  the  roll- 
ing. Roll  it  out  into  a  sheet  about 
\  inch  thick,  and  fold  \  of  it  over 
onto    the   balance,    and    then   the 


Fig.  2.    eolled  paste  folded 


Fig.    3.       PASTE    AFTEB    MAKING    A  "TURN.' 


other  side  over  onto  that,  making  3  layers  about  8  times  as  long  as 
it  is  wide,  as  shown  in  Fig.  2;  then  turn  it,  and  fold  it  lengthwise 
into  3  thicknesses  as  shown  in  Fig.  3,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  roll- 
ing out  again.  This  is  known  as  the  "first  turn." 


PASTKY  297 

In  lifting  the  paste  at  any  time  let  it  roll  up  on  the  roller,  then 
lift  it  gently,  dust  a  little  flour  on  the  board,  and  gently  unroll  the 
paste  the  way  you  want  it  to  lie,  having  the  side  which  was  next  the 
roller  come  next  the  board.  The  process  just  described  as  the  "first 
turn"  should  be  repeated  3  or  4  times  for  common  pies,  and  6  or  7 
times  for  the  best  pastry,  but  should  be  repeated  until  no  streaks  of 
butter  can  be  seen.  The  more  layers  there  are  the  more  "flaky"  it 
will  be.  To  keep  the  butter  evenly  distributed  so  that  the  paste  will 
rise  evenly,  it  is  folded  in  an  opijosite  direction  each  time,  and  after 
each  "turn"  it  is  laid  with  the  top  of  the  paste  on  the  board,  thus 
turning  it  over.  It  is  customary  in  warm  weather  (it  is  a  good  plan 
at  any  time)  to  put  it  on  ice  for  5  or  10  minutes  between  each  "turn." 
This  may  be  done  by  putting  it  in  a  long,  floured  pan,  putting  it  on 
ice,  and  then  set  another  pan  filled  with  ice  on  top  of  it,  thus  having 
ice  both  above  and  below.  The  top  tin  should  not  be  heavy  with  ice, 
as  only  a  little  ice  is  needed.  Tins  are  best,  because  dishes  would  not 
conduct  heat  readily  enough  to  cool  the  paste  quickly.  After  making 
the  last  "turn,"  roll  the  paste  out  about  ^  inch  thick,  and  cut  it  in 
shape  for  pies,  patties,  etc.  Some  cooks  think  that  the  shortest  route 
from  the  flour  barrel  to  the  bake  oven  is  the  best  for  pastry,  and 
others  prefer  to  set  the  paste  aside  in  a  cold  place  and  bake  next  day. 
Skillful  cooks  obtain  good  results  either  way.  From  first  to  last 
the  paste  should  be  kept  as  cold  as  possible. 

If  not  ready  to  bake  at  once  when  made  up,  keep  the  i^aste  in 
the  ice-chest  until  wanted.  We  knew  of  one  lady  who  had  a  long, 
slim  glass  bottle  which  she  filled  with  ice*water  and  used  for  a  roll- 
ing-pin. Pastry  should  be  rolled  lightly,  the  rolling-pin  often  lifted 
and  but  little  pressed  upon,  so  as  not  to  force  out  the  air. 

The  point  to  aim  at  in  making  pufp  paste  is  to  have  as  many  al- 
ternate layers  of  butter  and  dough  as  possible,  and  to  have  each  layer 
so  light  and  thin  that  in  baking  it  will  rise  separately.  The  paste 
will  be  difficult  to  manage,  and  a  failure,  probably,  if  it  is  either  too 
dry  and  stiff  or  soft  and  stick5^  If  the  flour  used  is  the  least  damp, 
the  paste  made  from  it  may  be  heavy.  The  less  flour  used  in  rolling 
the  paste  the  better,  as  if  an  excess  of  flour  is  used  the  flakes  will  be 
pale,  thick  and  tough,  if  not  absolutely  flat  and  heavy,  and  the  bak- 
ing will  be  much  slower.  Using  coarse  and  heavy  flour  may  produce 
a  similar  result,  and  so  may  slow  and  heavy  handling,  a  warm  or  ir- 
regular temperature  when  working,  or  faulty  baking. 

The  Butter. — If  the  butter  is  not  right,  rapid  handling,  partial 
freezing,  an  extra  sprinkle  of  flour  and  a  little  cream  of  tartar  may 
keep  the  flakes  separated  until  the  oven  is  reached  and  the  baking 


298  PASTRY 

begins;  it  will  bake  sharp  and  crisp  with  a  quick  heat,  but  the 
butter  will  fry  out  and  cover  the  flakes  of  paste  and  they  will  be 
found  greasy  to  the  touch  when  removed  from  the  oven.  •  Do  not 
suppose  that  if  the  butter  and  paste  are  not  in  the  best  condition 
possible  the  amount  of  the  butter  can  be  reduced  in  the  finishing 
process  of  rolling  together;  there  will  be  fewer  layers  of  paste,  the 
quality  inferior  and  the  quantity  less. 

For  some  dishes  a  rich  crust  is  neither  so  digestible  nor  so 
suitable  as  a  substantial  light  one,  and  a  light,  quick,  cool  hand  will 
influence  the  lightness  of  the  pastry  as  well  as  the  quantity  of  the 
butter  used 

Baking  Tins. — For  baking,  tin  plates  should  always  be  used,  as 
the  under  crust  will  be  apt  to  not  bake  well  in  anything  earthen;  the 
crust  will  readily  separate  from  the  pan  when  done.  It  should  then 
be  taken  off  the  plate  at  once,  or  the  under  crust  may  get  "  soggy." 
Grease  pie4ins  well  before  laying  on  the  crust;  for  some  kinds  of 
toastry  they  are  wet  with  water  instead  of  being  greased. 

The  Oven. — The  heat  of  the  oven  is  important.  If  too  hot,  the 
top  will  become  scorched  before  the  pastry  is  risen;  if  too  cold,  it 
will  melt,  spread,  and  the  paste  become  heavy  and  sodden.  It  is 
best,  therefore,  to  keep  the  pastry  out  until  the  oven  is  right.  Exper- 
ience will  guide  in  this,  but  a  good  plan  is  to  try  the  heat  of  the 
oven  first  with  a  small  piece  of  paste;  the  heat  should  be  strong 
enough  to  cause  the  cold  air  in  the  paste  to  expand,  and  so  make  it 
rise,  and  then  quickly  set  it  in  the  form  given  by  this  expansion  of 
the  air.  The  heat  should  be  strong  underneath  at  first,  to  make  the 
paste  rise  well  before  browning  on  top;  then  turn  the  heat  from 
below,  or  to  prevent  bu.rning,  put  a  grate  or  pan  under  the  baking- 
tin,  and  quicken  the  heat  on  top. 

The  Two  Crusts. — In  making  pies  with  an  upper  crust  always 
make  small  holes  in  it  to  allow  for  the  escape  of  steam,  or  that  will 
burst  the  crust.  These  holes  may  be  made  in  any  fanciful  shape  de- 
sired An  excellent  plan  is  to  use  a  rich  paste  for  the  top  crust,  and 
a  plainer  one,  with  much  less  shortening,  for  the  under  one.  Have 
the  under  crust  a  little  the  thicker.  If  there  is  no  uj^per  crust,  have  a 
heavy  edge  on  the  pie.  Mixing  the  white  flour  with  3  to  ^  its 
bulk  of  cornmeal  is  said  to  make  pie  crust  lighter  and  more  digest- 
ible. 

A  fine  brown  color  will  be  given  to  the  upper  crust  of  pies  if, 
just  before  putting  them  in  the  oven,  they  are  brushed  over  with 
milk. 


PASTKY  299 

To  Prevent  Juice  from  Running  out. — To  prevent  the  juices  of  fruit 
pies  from  running  over,  which  is  so  annoying  to  cooks,  various  plans 
have  been  employed.  (1)  Make  a  small  tube  of  writing  paper 
about  ^  inch  in  diameter,  and  let  it  set  through  the  upper  and  rest 
on  the  lower  crust;  or  a  short  piece  of  macaroni  set  on  end  makes 
a  good  tube.  The  juice  will  bubble  up  in  this  instead  of  running 
out.  (2)  In  all  fruit  fillings  stir  the  flour  into  the  fruit,  so  that  all 
the  fruit  may  be  covered,  instead  of  sx)rinkling  it  on  top.  Also 
avoid  having  too  much  fruit  in  the  5)ie,  and  add  no  water,  as  the 
fruits  make  their  own  juices.  (3)  Have  a  pie  tin  deep  enough  to 
allow  a  wall  of  crust  deep  enough  to  hold  in  the  juice.  (4)  Fasten 
the  upjper  crust  securely  by  turning  the  edge  of  it  under  the  under 
crust,  first  wetting  the  latter  with  a  little  beaten  white  of  egg 
or  water.  Sometimes  the  white  of  egg  is  used  and  the  two  firmly 
pressed  together  without  turning  the  upjper  under  the  lower  crust. 

All  the  small  juicy  fruits,  like  strawberries,  raspberries,  blueber- 
ries and  blackberries,  can  be  made  to  retain  their  juices  in  the 
crust  by  mixing  with  the  sugar  used  for  sweetening  them  a  heap- 
ing tablespoon  of  either  flour,  corn=starch,  arrowroot  or  cracker  dust. 
These  act  simply  by  absorbing  the  surplus  juice,  and  so  keep  it  from 
running  out.  The  mixture  should  be  well  shaken  down  through 
the  berries  before  the  top  crust  is.  put  on;  as  the  sugar  draws  out 
the  juice,  it  is  better  not  to  sprinkle  it  on  the  fruit  until  that  is  put 
in  the  crust.  The  under  crust  in  these  pies  will  be  raw  and  clammy, 
unless  there  is  a  good  heat  at  the  bottom  of  the  oven.  If  the  under 
crust  in  fruit  and  custard  pies  is  rubbed  over,  just  before  filling  the 
pies,  with  a  mixture  of  egg,  well  beaten,  it  will  prevent  the  juice  from 
soaking  into  it.  The  white  alone  will  do  if  the  pie  is  very  delicate  in 
color.  A  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar  added  to  the  flour  makes  the 
paste  into  a  nice,  short  crust,  for  fruit  pies.  If  in  fruit  pies  the  sugar 
is  not  added  until  after  they  are  baked,  and  then  the  crust  is  lifted 
up  and  it  is  put  in,  less  sugar  will  be  needed.  ( See  what  we  say 
about  "Using  Sugar,"  in  our  chapter  on  "Cooked  Fruit.") 

The  Pbinciples  Involved. — The  principles  involved  in  this  mode  of  baking 
flour  are  as  follows:  In  making  paste  or  pie  crust,  the  paste  of  flour  and  water  is 
rolled  out  into  very  thin  paper=like  layers,  with  fat  between.  In  folding  and  rolling 
it  out,  much  cold  air  is  imprisoned  and  distributed  through  the  mass.  When  baked, 
this  air  is  heated  and  so  expands,  and,  being  confined,  it  "lifts"  the  dough,  or 
makes  it  rise  and  become  light.  This  action  is  purely  mechanical,  without  pro- 
ducing any  chemical  change  like  that  worked  by  yeast.  It  is  obvious  that  (he 
colder  this  imprisoned  air  is  when  the  mass  is  ready  to  bake,  the  more  it  will 
be  contracted,  and,  therefore,  when  heated,  the  more  it  will  expand  and  lift  the 
dough;  hence  the  repeated  injunctions  to  keep  the  mass  as  cold  as  jiossible. 

Eggs,  when  used,  act  in  two  ways — they  increase  the  tenacity  of  (he  dough  so 
that  it  better  retains  the  air,  and  when  beaten  up  they  carry  a  good  deal  of  air  into 
the  dough.  As  soon  as  (he  cold  air  expands,  the  mass  should  stiffen,  before  it  has 
time  to  fall,  hence  the  importance  of  having  the  heat  of  the  ovea  right. 


300  PASTKY 

It  will  be  seen  that  the  lightness  of  the  pastry  will  depend  on  the  amount  and 
coldness  of  the  air  it  contains  before  it  is  put  in  the  oven,  and  the  extent  of  the 
expansion  of  the  air  afterwards;  therefore,  other  things  being  equal,  the  best 
pastry  will  be  that  which  contains  the  greatest  quantity  of  the  coldest  air  before  it 
is  baked.  Cooks  with  a  hot  hand  will  do  well  to  mix  the  paste  with  a  knife  (a 
steel  chopping=knife  with  a  wooden  handle  is  about  the  best  thing)  as  the  warmth 
of  the  hand  will  heat  the  paste  in  working  it. 

The  "flakiness"  of  the  paste  will  depend  on  the  number  of  layers  of  butter 
and  paste  it  contains,  but  its  rising  depends  on  its  air.  We  knew  an  experiment 
in  maiing  some  pastry  in  which  the  lady  pressed  it  hard  with  her  thumb  in 
certain  spots.  When  baked,  it  was  light  everywhere  except  where  her  thumb  had 
pressed,  and  there  it  was  soggy  and  heavy.  The  pressure  of  her  thumb  had  forced 
out  the  air,  so  that  in  those  places  there  was  nothing  to  expand  and  "lift"  the 
paste.  This  will  show  the  importance  of  the  lightness  and  deftness  of  touch  in 
making  paste,  which  we  have  elsewhere  insisted  on. 

Pastry,  though  generally  liked,  is  not  easily  digested,  and  is  not  suited  to  deli- 
cate stomachs,  although  the  strong  may  eat  it.  Flaky  paste,  although  easily 
broken  in  pieces,  is  not  easily  pulverized  or  ground  iiito  a  pulpy  mass  by  the 
teeth,  so  that  comparatively  large=sized  flakes  are  commonly  swallowed,  besides 
which  the  starchy  matter,  being  enveloped  in  fat,  is  not  readily  reached  by  the 
saliva,  and  thus  the  first  step  in  the  conversion  of  fiour  into  sugar  is  prevented, 
while  for  the  same  reason  it  is  not  readily  attacked  by  the  gastric  juices  in  the 
stomach.  From  these  causes  proceed  the  evil  results  so  often  experienced  from 
eating  pastry.    When  eaten,  it  should  be  very  thoroughly  and  patiently  masticated. 

Using  Cornmeal. — Cornmeal  mixed  with  flour,  using  }^  cornmeal  to  %  Hour  or 
a  little  more,  makes  puddings  or  pastry  more  digestible,  because  it  makes  them 
less  cohesive — that  is,  when  it  is  used  the  products  fall  more  readily  into  minute 
particles  so  that  the  saliva  can  act  on  the  starch,  and  the  gastric  juice  on  the 
albumenoids,  much  more  readily.  Cornmeal,  lacking  gluten,  breaks  up  the  sticki- 
ness of  gluten  flour  as  we  elsewhere  explain. 

Meringue  (pronounced  me  -rang' )  for  pies,  puddings  or  cake,  is  a 
frosting  spread  on  top  of  them.  It  is  made  by  beating  the  white  of 
1  egg  and  1  tablespoon  of  powdered  white  sugar  to  a  froth,  and 
flavoring  it  if  desired.  After  spreading  it  on,  it  must  always  be  put 
in  the  oven  to  brown  and  harden;  let  a  pudding  cool  slightly  before 
spreading  it  on,  or  else  it  will  liquify. 

Doree,  or  gilding,  applied  to  patties,  etc.,  is  an  egg  beaten  up  and 
brushed  over  the  top.     It  gives  them  a  beautiful  golden  shade. 

PASTE,    OK    PIE    CRUST. 

For  the  best  pufip  paste  the  uniform  rule  is  equal  quantities,  by 
weight,  of  butter  and  flour.  A  good  paste  is  made  with  £  lb.  butter 
to  1  lb.  flour.  For  home  use,  as  low  as  |  lb.  butter  to  1  lb.  flour  is 
sometimes  used. 

For  the  best  paste,  good  butter  is  the  thing  to  use;  the  next  best 
thing,  butter  and  lard  mixed.  For  meat  pies  clarified  drippings 
makes  a  good  crust.  A  light  biscuit  crust  answers  well  for  dump- 
lings, and  may  also  be  used  for  meat  pies.  A  paste  made  with  lard 
alone,  will  be  tender,  but  not  flaky. 

If  any  baking  powder  is  used  with  paste  at  any  time  add  that  to 
the  flour  first  of  all.      When  baking  powder  is  used  in  pastry,  speedy 


PASTRY  301 

work  is  needed  or  the  effervescence  will  be  over  before  the  work  is 
completed,  the  gas  will  escape,  and  the  paste  will  fall.  For  delicate 
puffspaste  or  pie  crust  do  not  use  baking  powder. 

No.  I.  PUFF  PASTE — Use  2  cups  flour,  1  solid  cup  butter, 
and  1  level  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  about  ^  of  the  butter  in  the  flour, 
then  roll  out  and  work  in  the  balance  as  directed  for  making  pastes, 
giving  it  4  to  6  "  turns."  This  makes  a  rich  paste  suitable  for  the 
upper  crust  of  pies,  using  a  plainer  one  for  the  under  crust. 

No.  2.  LIGHT  PASTE — Use  2  cups  flour,  1  solid  cup  butter, 
1  level  teaspoon  salt,  1  egg  (2  are  sometimes  used).  Mix,  roll  out, 
and  finish  as  directed  above  for  making  paste,  giving  it  at  least  4 
"  turns  " — 6  is  better.     It  makes  a  good  paste  for  fruit  tarts. 

No.  3.  PUFF  PASTE. — Use  1  teacup  each  of  butter  and  lard,  4 
cups  sifted  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  white 
of  egg,  beaten.  Sift  the  baking  powder  and  salt  into  the  flour;  then 
rub  in  the  lard  till  it  forms  a  fine,  smooth  paste.  Add  enough  ice 
water,  containing  the  beaten  white  of  egg,  to  make  a  stiff  dough — 
say  ^  cup;  roll  out  thin,  spread  on  ^  of  the  butter,  and  make  1 
"turn"  as  previously  explained  for  pastry;  repeat  with  another  ^  of 
the  butter,  and  so  on  till  all  is  used.      Then  set  on  ice  till  cold — say 

1  or  2  hours — before  using  it.     An  excellent  paste. 

No.  4.  FRENCH  PASTE — Use  4  cups  flour,  1  cup  powdered 
sugar,  1  level  teaspoon  salt,  3  whole  eggs.  Mix  thoroughly  with  the 
flngers  to  a  smooth  paste;  if  too  dry  to  mold,  add  the  yolk  of  another 
egg;  after  it  is  molded,  roll  out  and  cut.  This  paste  is  more  diges- 
tible than  shortened  pie  crust. 

No.  5.  PIE  CRUST — Use  1  cup  flour,  1  tablespoon  lard,  |- 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  ^  teaspoon  salt.  Sift  the  baking  powder 
and  salt  together,  chop  the  lard  into  the  flour,  and  add  just  enough 
cold  water  to  moisten  the  flour.     This  quantity  will  make  1  pie  with 

2  crusts. 

No.  6.  PIE  CRUST — Mix  equal  amounts  of  white  and  graham 
flours;  stir  in  cold  sweet  cream  with  a  sjDOon,  lightly  and  rapidly,  in 
the  proportion  of  1  cup  of  cream  to  3  cups  flour;  with  the  fingers 
gather  the  dough  together,  without  kneading  it,  and  set  it  in  a  very 
cool  place  ^  hour  before  rolling  out.  It  can  be  made  still  lighter  by 
adding  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  for  each  3  cups  flour,  but  in  that 
case  roll  out  and  bake  at  once. 


302  PIES 

PIES. 

Time  to  Bake. — Pies  should  bake,  as  a  rule,  in  |  to  f  hour.  They 
should  slip  on  the  tin  when  done.  Crust  alone  should  brown  in 
about  \  hour. 

APPLE  PIE. — Line  a  large  pie^plate  with  a  good  crust,  fill  it 
well  with  sliced  apples;  take  a  small  cup  of  sugar  and  mix  well  with 
it  1  tablespoon  of  floiir,  a  little  nutmeg,  half  a  teaspoon  of  cinnamon, 
and  sprinkle  over  the  pie;  put  on  the  top  crust;  wet  the  edges  (^f 
the  under  crust,  pinch  the  top  one  upon  it  closely,  cut  an  opening 
in  the  middle  of  the  top  crust,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven  about  an 
hour;  serve  the  day  of  baking. 

POT  APPLE  PIE — Put  a  quart  of  water  in  a  kettle  with  2  cups 
of  sugar,  a  saltspoon  of  salt  and  6  tart  apples,  pared,  quartered  and 
cored;  let  them  cook  in  the  syrup  until  they  look  like  preserves,  then 
make  a  baking-powder  crust,  without  shortening,  cut  it  in  rounds 
with  a  biscuit^cutter,  put  it  in  the  kettle,  add  a  jpiece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  and  more  water  if  the  syrup  is  much  reduced;  cover, 
and  cook  20  minutes.     Turn  into  a  deep  dish  to  serve. 

DRIED  APPLE  PIE.— The  dried  apples  should  be  soaked  over 
night,  then  slowly  stewed,  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  them,  for  2  or 
3  hours,  especially  those  dried  in  the  old-fashioned  way,  and  which  are 
preferred  by  many  cooks  to  those  that  are  bleached.  When  soft,  stir 
to  a  mash  with  a  spoon,  or  work  the  apple  through  a  coarse  colander; 
season  to  taste  with  sugar  and  spices,  and  bake  in  two  crusts.  A  few 
dried  raspberries,  or  a  little  raspberry  jam  is  a  great  improvement  in 
dried  apple  pies. 

A  good  way  to  treat  dried  apples  is  to  soak  them  over  nighb,  tnen  cover  with 
boiling  water,  and  stew  soft.  A  little  sour  cider  or  lemon  juice  may  be  added  if 
they  are  not  tart  enough,  and  a  fine  flavor  will  be  imparted  by  adding  a  little 
orange  peel  when  they  are  about  half  stewed;  then  add  sugar  and  nutmeg  to 
season,  and  strain  through  a  colander. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE.— Take  2  cups  sweet  milk,  2  cups  apple 
sauce,  3  eggs;  flavor  and  sweeten,  and  bake  with  an  under  crust  only. 
This  wiU  make  2  small  or  1  large  pie. 

Apple  Custard  No.  2.— Take  |  cup  melted  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3 
cups  stewed  apples,  4  eggs  beaten  separately.  Bake  in  pie=plates 
in  bottom  crusts  only. 

APPLE  PIE  A  LA  MODE.— Take  a  good  apple  pie,  warm  it, 
and  spread  ice  cream  over  the  top  1  inch  thick,  and  serve  at  once. 


PIES  303 

BANANA  PIE. — Slice  the  bananas  thinly,  put  over  them  the 
grated  peel  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  let  them  lie  in  the  acid  for  an 
hour  before  using;  then  sweeten  to  taste,  and  bake  in  two  crusts. 

CARROT  PIE.— To  1  lb.  of  carrots,  boiled  and  mashed  through 
a  colander,  add  2  eggs,  and  rich  milk  or  cream  to  make  quite  thin; 
flavor  to  taste  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg;  put  it  into  2  pie- 
plates  lined  with  rich  paste,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CHERRY  PIE. — Pit  the  cherries  and  be  careful  to  reject  all  that 
are  wormy;  place  them  on  a  nice  under  crust,  sweeten  to  taste  and 
mix  a  teaspoon  of  corn=starch  with  the  sugar,  or  a  tablespoon  if  the 
cherries  are  large  and  juicy.  Bake  in  two  crusts,  or  as  a  tart  with 
strips  of  paste  twisted  and  placed  over  it  in  diamond  shape.  Eat 
cold,  with  sugar  sifted  over  the  top. 

DRIED  CHERRY  PIE.— Use  a  pie-'plate  that  will  hold  1  pint, 
line  with  rich  paste;  take  1  teacup  of  sugar  and  put  |  of  it  on  the 
under  crust,  roll  2  soda  crackers  fine,  put  ^  on  the  sugar,  and  1  tea- 
cup of  cherries  strewn  evenly  on  the  cracker;  now  add  a  piece  of 
butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  cover  with  the  remainder  of  the 
sugar  and  cracker;  when  the  top  crust  is  ready  to  put  on,  add  1  tea- 
cup of  cold  water,  and  bake  ^  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

GROUND  CHERRY  PIE.— Line  a  pie-plate  with  a  nice  pie  crust, 
and  then  put  in  a  layer  of  ground  cherries  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Cover 
with  a  nice  crust  and  bake. 

The  ground  cherry  {Physatis  viscosa)  belongs  to  the  order  Solanacce — the  order 
which  gives  us  the  tomato  and  potato. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE — Take  2  cups  milk,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  |  of  a 
cup  of  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  corn-starch,  and  2  tablespoons  of 
grated  chocolate.  Heat  the  milk,  sugar  and  chocolate  together; 
when  hot,  add  the  corn-starch,  mixed  in  a  little  of  the  cold  milk,  then 
add  the  beaten  yolks;  let  all  come  to  a  boil;  line  a  pie-tin  with  good 
pie  crust,  bake,  and  then  pour  in  the  chocolate  cream;  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stifP  froth  with  2  tablespoons  of  white  sugar; 
pour  it  over  the  pie,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

GREEN  COCOANUT  PIE — Open  the  eyes  of  a  cocoanut  with  a 
gimlet,  and  pour  out  the  milk  into  a  cup;  then  break  the  shell,  take 
out  the  meat,  and  grate  it  fine;  take  the  same  weights  of  sugar  and 
the  grated  nut,  and  stir  together;  beat  4  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks 
separately,  to  a  stiff  foam;  mix  1  cup  of  cream,  and  the  milk  of  the 
cocoanut  with  the  sugar  and  nut;  then  add  the  eggs.  Line  deep  pie 
tins  with  a  nice  cruSt>  fill  them  with  the  cu^ard,  and  bake  carefully 
^  hour. 


304 


PIES 


OOOOANUT   PALM. 


DRIED  COCOANUT  PIE.— Put  a  cup  of  cocoanut  to  soak  in 
sweet  milk  as  early  in  the  morning  as  possible;  take  a  teacup  of  the 
cocoanut  and  put  it  into  a  coffeecup,  and  fill  up  with  milk.  When 
ready  to  bake  take  2  teaspoons  of  flour,  mix  with  milk,  and  stir  until 
it  thickens;  add  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  while  warm;  when  cold, 
add  a  little  salt,  2  eggs  (saving  out  the  white 
of  one  for  the  top),  sweeten  to  taste,  add  the 
cocoanut,  beating  well,  fill  the  crust  and  bake 
When  done,  have  the  extra  white  beaten 
with  sugar  and  ready  to  spread  over  the  top; 
return  to  the  oven  and  brown  lightly. 

Cocoanut  is  the  frnit  of  a  species  of  palm.  It 
now  grows  in  nearly  all  tropical  regions.  The  num- 
ber of  different  ways  in  wliich  it  is  made  useful  to  the 
inhabitants  in  the  region  in  which  it  grows  is  surpris- 
ing. Each  tree  yields  80  to  100  nuts  annually.  The 
oil  expressed  from  the  kernel  is  good,  and  might  be 
used  as  food,  but  it  quickly  becomes  rancid.  The  nut 
should  be  eaten  moderately  only,  as  it  is  rather  diffi- 
cult of  digestion  alone,  but  in  connection  with  other 
food,  aids  their  digestion.  It  is  more  of  a  heat=giver 
than  of  a  flesh'former. 

CORN=STARCH  PIE — Scald  1  pint  of  milk  and  stir  in  it  3 
tablespoons .  of  sugar  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs;  wet  2  table- 
spoons of  corn^starch  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  stir  it  in  the  milk, 
sugar,  and  eggs.  Line  a  pie-plate  with  paste,  bake,  and  fill  it  with 
the  cream.  Beat  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
spread  over  the  top  of  the  pie,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown.  This 
may  be  served  with  or  without  cream,  and  will  be  found  very  nice. 

CREAM  PIE. — Take  2  cups  thick  cream,  and  1  cup  milk.  Put 
the  cream  and  milk  in  a  tin  xDail,  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 
If  there  is  danger  that  the  cream  may  curdle,  put  into  it  as  much 
soda  as  will  lie  on  the  point  of  a  pen=knife.  When  the  cream  is  hot, 
beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  a  tablespoon  of  corn^starch,  and  2  heaping 
tablespoons  of  sugar  all  together,  and  add  to  the  cream.  When  it 
thickens,  let  cool  a  little,  and  add  a  teaspoon  of  extract  of  vanilla. 
Pour  into  a  deep  crust  already  baked.  Cover  with  a  meringue  and 
brown  in  the  oven. 

Cream  Pie  No.  2.-^Bake  a  crust  in  a  largo  pie=pan,  lift  it  out  on  a 
plate;  for  filling,  take  1  pint  of  very  rich  milk;  boil  |  of  it;  with  the 
remaining  ^  stir  2  tablespoons  of  corn-starch;  add  to  the  boiling 
milk,  stirring  all  the  time;  then  add  |  teacup  of  sugar,  then  the  yolks 
-of  2  eggs,  well  beaten  and  thinned  with  a  little  milk;  remove  from 
•ihe  fire,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  pour  into  the  crust;  whip  Hke  wiiite», 


PIES  305 

add  ^  teacup  sugar,  frost  the  pie,  and  place  in  the  oven  to  brown 
slightly.     Serve  cold. 

Cream  Pie  No.  3. — Use  1  egg,  1  cup  sugar  with  butter  size  of  an 
egg  well  rubbed  into  it,  ^  cup  milk,  in  which  dissolve  ^  teaspoon 
soda,  1|  cups  flour,  and  sift  well  through  it  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar 
and  a  little  salt;  bake  in  3  tins. 

Cream  Filling. — Take  1  egg,  ^  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  flour;  wet  the  flour 
with  a  little  milk,  then  stir  it  into  1  cup  boiling  milk,  then  add  the 
egg  and  sugar,  and  a  little  salt;  stir  till  thick  and  smooth.  This  is 
cheap,  but  delicious. 

DATE    PIE. — Prepare  the    dates    as 

directed  in  the  introduction  to  "Cake" 

(which  see).     Spread  the  lower  crust  on 

the  pan,  put  in  the  prepared  dates,  add  a 

little  cold  water,  sprinkle  with  flour,  dot 

with  butter,  put  on  the  upper   crust  and 

bake. 

The  Date  is  the  fruit  of  a  palm  tree.  It 
bears  bunches,  weighing  perhaps  25  lbs.  with  200 
dates.  It  grows  extensively  in  Persia  and 
throughout  Asia  and  Africa.  More  than  half  its 
weight  is  sugar.  It  is  a  gentle  laxative,  and  is  in 
many  cases  to  be  preferred  to  figs.     Dates  can  be  date  palm. 

used  in  pies,  puddings,  bread  and  sauce,  and  they 

are  worthy  of  a  more  extensive  use,  although  many  people  do  not  understand  how 
to  handle  them.  Dates  may  be  used  to  advantage  in  place  of  citron  in  many  kinds 
of  cookery. 

GREEN  CURRANT  PIE.— Currants  fully  grown,  and  just  before 
turning  red,  make  very  nice  pies;  mix  a  little  flour  or  corn=starch 
with  the  sugar  used  for  seasoning,  and  bake  with  an  upper  crust. 
Green  gooseberry  pies  are  made  in  the  same  manner,  first  picking  off 
the  stems  and  blossom  ends. 

CUSTARD  PIE — Take  2  teacups  milk,  2  eggs,  3  tablespoons 
light  brown  sugar,  1  heaping  teaspoon  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Heat 
the  milk,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Beat  eggs,  sugar,  flour  and  salt 
together,  and  add  the  milk.  Line  a  deep  plate  with  plain  crust,  pour 
in  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  there  is  no  milk  in 
the  center.  Do  not  let  it  boil,  as  that  causes  it  to  whey.  When 
done,  grate  nutmeg  on  top. 

Custard  Pie  No.  2 — -The  proper  proportions  for  a  rich  custard  pie 
are  4  well-beaten  eggs,  4  tablespoons  of  white  sugar,  and  1  quart  of 
milk,  or  milk  aTul  cream  mixed.  This  makes  the  filling  for  a  deep 
pie=plate  with  a  built=up  edge  of  crust. 

20 


306  PIES 

Frosted  Custard  Pie.— Use  1  pint  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  8  eggs  and 
white  of  1,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt.  When  baked,  put 
on  the  frosting  made  of  the  2  remaining  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten 
stiff,  and  2  spoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  a  small  pinch  of  salt,  and  any 
flavoring  you  choose;  set  it  back  in  the  oven  and  brown. 

ELDERBERRY  PIE Take  |  elderberries  and  ^  rhubarb,  with 

sugar  sufficient  to  sweeten,  and  bake  with  2  crusts.  This  makes  an 
excellent  pie  which  cannot  be  distinguished  from  one  made  of  rasp- 
berries, and  is  much  cheaper.  This  proportion  of  elderberries  and 
rhubarb  makes  a  nice  jam. 

FRIED  PIES.— Roll  out  a  good  biscuit  dough,  about  7  or  8 
inches  in  diameter,  but  a  spoonful  of  any  good  sauce  near  the  center, 
fold  the  dough  over  it,  press  the  edges  together,  and  fry  like  dough- 
nuts in  smoking  hot  fat. 

FRUIT  PIES,  OR  TARTS — Fruit  pies  of  all  kinds  may  be  made 
with  an  under  crust  only.  Have  the  fruit  stewed,  sweetened  and 
cold.  Fill  the  crust  with  the  fruit,  place  a  few  bits  of  b.utter  over 
the  fruit,  and  bake.  When  the  pie  is  cool,  beat  the  white  of  1  egg 
and  1  tablespoon  of  fine  sugar  to  a  froth,  spread  over  the  pie,  and 
brown  in  the  oven.  If  a  thicker  meringue  is  liked,  make  with  whites 
of  2  eggs,  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  If  the  fruit  is  very  juicy  a  lit- 
tle pulverized  cracker  can  be  sprinkled  over  the  pie  before  baking. 
Pies  made  in  this  way  with  one  crust  are  often  called  "  tarts." 
Fruit  pies  can  also  be  made  by  putting  the  fruit  in  a  pudding 
dish,  sweeten  and  dust  over  the  fruit  a  little  corn^starch,  flour,  or 
cracker 'dust;  put  bits  of  butter  over  the  fruit,  and  any  spices  liked; 
cover  with  a  crust  a  Itttle  thicker  than  when  there  is  an  under  crust. 
Bake  slowly.  In  this  way  there  is  no  danger  of  losing  the  juice  of 
the  pie. 

GOOSEBERRY  PIE. — Take  ripe  gooseberries,  or  green  ones 
when  fully  grown,  pick  the  stems  and  blow  ends  from  them  and  place 
on  the  under  crust.  Mix  a  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  in  a  small  cup 
of  sugar  for  the  sweetening.     Bake  with  2  crusts. 

QRAPE  PIE. — Take  1  coffee-cup  of  grapes,  1  tea^cup  of  sugar,  1 
egg,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  dessertspoon  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoon  of  butter. 
This  makes  1  pie.     Bake  in  2  crusts. 

HICKORY=NUT  PIE — Use  1^  pints  milk,  4  teaspoons  sugar,  2 
eggs,  and  1  cup  chopped  hickory=nut  meats;  bake  with  an  under 
crust  only. 


PIES  307 

HUCKLEBERRY  PIE — Fill  a  pie  tin,  lined  with  paste,  with  the 
berries,  and  add  sugar  to  sweeten — about  f  cup.  A  pleasant  tartness, 
which  will  improve  the  flavor,  may  be  imparted  by  adding  a  little 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  or  by  mixing  in  some  currants.  Cover  with 
a  top  crust  and  bake. 

JELLY  PIE. — Take  1  cup  jelly,  2  cups  sugar,  4  eggs,  ^  cup  but- 
ter. Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  beat  the  yolks  until  light  and  stir 
them  in,  then  add  the  beaten  whites  and  last  the  jelly.  A  small 
piece  of  this  served  on  the  same  plate  with  apple  or  peach  pie  is 
nice. 

LEMON  PIE. — Line  a  pie  plate  with  a  good  crust  and  bake. 
For  the  filling  take  1  cup  sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon, 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  corn^starch  (a  little  heaping);  stir 
sugar  and  yolks  together,  add  the  lemon  juice,  then  add  the  corn= 
starch  and  stir  well  together;  add  1|  cups  boiling  water,  put  on  stove 
and  cook  carefully  until  thick,  ,and  then  pour  into  the  baked  crust. 
For  the  meringue  beat  the  3  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  put  over  top  and  brown  delicately  in  oven. 

LEMON  PIE  WITH  UPPER  CRUST.— Grate  the  yellow  part  of 
2  lemons  into  a  dish,  peel  off  the  white  and  throw  away;  then  cut  up 
the  lemons  with  the  grated  yellow,  add  5  eggs,  if  they  are  plenty,  if 
not,  4  will  do;  add  2  cups  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  2  tablespoons  of 
water.  Line  your  pie=tins  with  a  flaky  crust,  and  divide  the  filling 
for  2  pies;  put  on  an  upper  crust,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  and  you 
will  find  it  a  delicious  dessert. 

MINCE  PIES. — These  generally  come  on  Thanksgiving  day  for 
the  season;  they  are  better  when  a  few  days  old.  It  is  better  to  make 
the  mince-meat  a  week  before  Thanksgiving,  and  the  pies  in  time  to 
stand  at  least  3  days.  Boil  6  lbs.  lean  beef  till  tender,  let  it  stand 
over  night  and  then  chop  fine;  chop  1  lb.  beef  suet,  also  5  lbs.  apples, 
and  2  lbs.  seeded  raisins;  slice  thin  -I  lb.  citron,  and  mix  these  ingre- 
dients, with  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  and  1  tablespoon  grated  nut- 
meg. 

Hints — We  may  ofifer  a  few  hints  about  mince  pies.  Dried  apples,  soaked  in 
■water  a  few  hours,  or  over  night,  or  Irish  potatoes  soaked  in  the  same  way  in 
vinegar,  make  a  very  fair  substitute  for  fresh  apples  in  mince  pies.  Fresh  apples 
can  be  washed,  wiped  dry,  and  chopped  fine  without  peeling,  and  some  labor  saved 
thereby.  Dried  cherries  and  other  fruit,  prepared  with  sugar,  can  be  soaked  10  or 
12  hours  in  a  very  little  water,  and  then  both  water  and  fruit  used  instead  of  rai- 
sins. They  will  bo  much  cheaper  and  will  answer  very  well.  EcoQomioal  house- 
wives will  often  find  hints  like  these  very  serviceable. 


308  PIES 

Canned  Mince  Meat, — If  mince  meat  is  canned  hot,  in  the  same 
manner  as  hnit,  j)ut  in  glass  jars;  sealed  tight,  and  kept  in  a  cool, 
dark  place,  it  will  keep  for  months.  A  quart  jar  full  will  hold 
enough  for  2  pies,  and  in  this  way  mince  pies  can  be  had  the  year 
round,  as  well  as  in  winter, 

MINCE  MEAT. 

3  bowls  of  meat,  chopped.  1  bowl  molasses. 
2  bowls  cider.                                      2  bowls  raisins. 

4  bowls  sugar  (use  5  if  liked  1  tablespoon  cloves. 
very  sweet).                                     1  tablespoon  pepper. 

8  lemons,  use  juice  and  yellow         1  bowl  vinegar, 
rind.  1  bowl  citron. 

5  bowls  of  apple.  1  tablespoon  salt. 

1  bowl  suet.  3  nutmegs. 

2  tablesjDoons  cinnamon. 

A  bowl  holding  about  1^  pints  is  used  for  measuring 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE. 

1  cup  rolled  crackers.  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

^  cup  boiled  cider.  1  cup  molasses. 

1  teaspoon  of  cloves.  1  cup  chopped  raisins. 

1  cup  sugar.  ^  cup  vinegar. 

1  cup  hot  water.  1  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE  No.  2. 
1  cup  dried  English  currants.  1  cup  sugar. 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon.  1  teaspoon  allspice. 

1  cup  sour  cream.  1  egg. 

1  teaspoon  cloves. 

This  will  make  2  pies.     Bake  in  2  crusts. 

SUMMER  MINCE  PIES. 

1  cup  bread  crumbs.  1  cup  molasses. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  raisins. 

1  teaspoon  cloves  and  cinnamon.  ^  cup  butter. 
1  cup  water. 

ORANGE  PIE — Take  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  table- 
spoon corn=starch,  1  teacup  boiling  water,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  1  orange.  Mix  all  together.  Bake  in  an  open  shell. 
When  set,  cover  with  a  meringue  made  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
and  brown  in  the  oven 

Orange  Pie  No.  2. — Use  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  oranges. 
Cream  1  tables^Doon  butter  with  4  tablesjjoons  sugar;  into  this  beat 
the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  then  the  whites  of  2,  beaten  stiff,  and  mix  all 
with  the  orange  juice  and  the  rind.  Bake  with  an  under  crust  only; 
make  a  meringue  with  the  reserved  white,  spread  over  tke  pie,  and 
lightly  brown  in  the  oven. 


PIES  309 

PEACH  PIE. — Peel  and  halve  peaches,  and 
fill  a  pie^plate  lined  with  good  paste  with  them; 
sprinkle  ^  cup  sugar  over  the  fruit,  sift  on  1 
tablespoon  flour  (less,  if  the  fruit  is  not  juicy), 
and  a  few  bits  of  butter;  bake  until  the  peaches 
are  done. 

The   Peaoh  tree  belongs  to  the  Rose  order,  is  a  na- 
tive of  Persia  and   greatly   resembles    the   almonditree.  peaoh. 
All  the  varieties  are  divided  into  2  classes — "freestones" 

and  "  clingstones,"  the  former  being  the  best.  Too  much  down  on  a  peach  is  a 
sign  of  inferior  quality.  Although  a  delicious  fruit  it  contains  little  nutritive  mat 
ter.  It  contains  little  sugar,  but  the  malic  acid  it  contains  is  masked  by  its  pec- 
tose.  The  skin  is  indigestible.  Its  acid  is  principally  tartaric.  The  kernels  of 
peach  stones  yield  an  oil  identical  with  that  of  bitter  almonds. 

PEACH  COBLER. — Take  a  good  sized  dish  like  a  pudding=dish ; 
line  the  sides  with  good  paste,  and  fill  the  dish  with  good  peaches, 
halved  and  pared;  sweeten  according  to  taste  and  the  flavor  of  the 
peaches.  Place  a  small  cup  in  the  center  to  keep  the  crust  from 
sinking  down;  roll  out  a  crust  considerably  thicker  than  for  pies,  just 
large  enough  to  cover  the  top  of  the  dish,  cut  a  slit  each  way  in  the 
center  and  place  over  the  peaches;  bake  a  crisi3  brown,  and  eat  with 
cream  and  sugar,  or  sweet  sauce.  Canned  peaches  may  be  used  if 
more  convenient. 

Apple  Cobler  may  be  made  in  the  same  way, 

PEAR  PIE — The  iDears  should  be  ripe  and  mellow  enough  to 
eat;  core  and  slice  them  and  prepare  a  crust  as  for  apx^le  pies;  put  a 
small  amount  of  sugar  on  them,  and  a  few  bits  of  butter,  but  no 
spices.  Bake  until  the  top  crust  is  of  a  nice  light  brown  color,  and 
the  under  crust  will  slip  on  the  plate.  This,  from  the  taste,  might 
be  called  honeij  pie. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE — Grateor  chop  the  "Pine"  (see  Pineapples 
in  chapter  on  fruits),  line  a  deep  pie-dish  with  nice  short  paste,  stir 
a  tablespoon  of  arrowroot  or  corn^starch  into  -|  cu^d  of  sugar  and  cover 
the  pineax)ple  in  the  pie=dish;  wet  the  edge  of  the  under  crust  with 
cold  water  or  the  white  of  an  egg,  cover  with  the  top  crust,  cutting  a 
place  in  the  center,  and  bake.  Press  the  edge  of  the  pie  all  around, 
and  bake  until  of  a  delicate  brown  on  top  and  the  crust  will  slii3  on 
the  pie-plate. 

POTATO  PIE. — Use  |  cup  melted  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  eggs, 
well  beaten,  1  quart  potatoes  boiled  and  sifted,  1^  cups  milk,  salt  and 
nutmeg,  and  flavor  with  orange  or  lemon  juice.  Bake  with  an  under 
crust  ordy,  to  a  light  brown.     Eat  when  a  little  warm. 


310  PIES 

SWEET=POTATO  PIE — Boil  the  potatoes  until  soft,  mash  them 
through  a  colander  and  for  every  ^  i^int  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar 
and  2  eggs,  with  milk  to  make  a  quart.  This  fills  a  deep  pie=plate, 
with  crust  build  above  the  edge  of  the  plate  as  for  custard  pie,  and 
it  is  done  when  the  center  is  not  milky. 

PRUNE  PIE — Stew  prunes  as  for  sauce,  stone  them,  have  ready 
a  deep  iDie^dish  lined  with  puff  paste,  fill  this  dish  with  the  stoned 
prunes,  sprinkle  over  them  -J  cup  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon.  Bake 
it  with  an  upper  crust,  or  cover  it  with  deep  frosting  made  of  the 
whites  of  2  eggs,  powdered  sugar  to  taste,  and  any  flavor  desired. 

PUMPKIN  PIE.— Pare  and  stew  the  pumpkin  till  it  is  soft  and 
dry.  It  must  be  cooked  slowly  to  the  last,  to  prevent  scorching. 
Press  through  a  colander,  and  to  1  cup  of  the  sifted  pumx^kin,  add 
1  egg,  3  tablespoons  molasses,  -J-  cup  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon ginger  (or  cinnamon),  and  1  pint  of  milk.  This  will  fill  1  pie 
on  a  large  plate.  Bake  like  a  custard,  in  rather  a  slow  oven,  till  a 
golden  brown. 

Pumpkin  Pie  No.  2.— For  3  pies  take  1  pint  of  cooked,  strained 
pumpkin,  1  quart  of  nice  rich  milk,  5  eggs,  1^  cups  of  sugar,  ^  cup  of 
butter  and  2  tablesi^oons  of  cinnamon.  (Ginger  may  be  used  instead 
of  cinnamon  if  preferred. ) 

In  pumpkin  or  squash  pie  1  tablespoon  of 
flour  may  be  substituted  as  the  equivalent  of  1 
egg- 

RAISIN  PIE— Take  the  seeds  from  1  cup  of 
raisins,  add  1  cui^  of  water  and  boil  until  the 
raisins  are  soft.  When  cold,  add  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  of  rolled  crackers, 
and  sweeten  to  taste.  Bake  in  1  crust,  and  when 
cool  cover  with  a  meringue,  and  slighty.  brown  in 
the  oven. 

Raisins  are  dried  grapes.  There  are  2  ways  of  prepar- 
ing them.  One  way  is  to  partially  cut  through  the  stalk,  and 
then  let  the  fruit  shrink  and  dry  on  the  vine,  by  the  heat  of 
the  sun.  The  other  method  is  to  dip  them  while  yet  on 
the  vines  into  a  hot  solution  of  alkali,  derived  from  wood  ashes,  to  which  olive 
oil  and  "salt  are  added.  The  oil  causes  them  to  shrink  and  wrinkle,  and  the  alkali 
removes  the  waxy  coat  which  impedes  their  drying.  They  are  then  dried  in  the 
sun  in  bunches,  on  lines  or  prepared  floors.  Muscatels  are  prepared  by  the  firs' 
method,  and  are  sometimes  called  "  raisins  of  the  sun."  Raisins  contain  more 
sugar  and  less  Hcid  than  grapes,  and  are  therefore  more  nutritious,  but  eaten  to 
they  are  apt  to  derange  the  digestive  organs. 


BAISIN    GBAPE. 


RHUBARB  PIE — The  giant  variety  with  red  stalks  is  the  best 
to  use.     Cut  IIk!  stalks  in  half  inch  pieces;  after  it  is  cut  pour  boil- 


PIES  311 

ing  water  over  it  and  let  it  stand  20  minutes;  pour  that  off  and  re- 
peat the  process  with  boiling  water;  this  extracts  much  of  its  oxalic 
acid  and  partly  cooks  it  without  breaking  it  in  pieces.  Mix  the 
sugar  with  a  little  corn-starch.  Bake  in  2  crusts.  The  flavor  is  im- 
proved by  adding  a  little  orange.  A  little  nutmeg  added  to  rhu- 
barb pie  will  improve  the  flavor  and  make  it  taste  much  like  apple. 
Note. — If  a  little  baking  soda  is  mixed  with  the  fruit  (say  -|  a 
fealtspoon  to  each  pie)  the  alkali  will  neutralize  the  oxalic  acid  of  the 
rhubarb  and  much  less  sugar  will  be  required  for  sweetening — a  fact 
worth  knowing. 

RICE  PIE. — To  1  cup  steamed  rice  add  3  cups  cream;  sweeten 
to  taste,  and  flavor  with  cinnamon;  beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a 
froth,  then  beat  all  together  and  put  in  a  deep  pie=plate,  with  under 
crust  only.     Bake  about  |-  hour. 

SQUASH  PIE. — To  1  pint  of  squash,  boiled  and  passed  through 
a  sieve  or  colander,  add  3  eggs,  1  heaping  teaspoon  corn^starch,  1 
teaspoon  vanilla,  and  milk  to  make  it  soft;  sweeten  to  taste.  This 
makes  a  large,  thick  pie. 

STRAWBERRY  PIE.— Make  a  rich  butter  crust  to  line  the  pie- 
plate;  fill  in  the  berries,  and  for  each  pie  use  for  sweetening  about  ^ 
cup  of  sugar  and  a  tablespoon  of  corn=starch  mixed  with  the  sugar; 
bake  with  an  upper  crust. 

TOMATO  PIE. — Into  a  tin  lined  with  puff  paste,  slice  ripe  toma- 
toes; sweeten  with  sugar;  sprinkle  on  2  teaspoons  flour,  and  add  a 
little  lemon  juice  for  flavor;  put  on  a  top  crust  and  bake. 

TRANSPARENT  PIE.— Take  yolks  of  3  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  1|  tablespoons  of  butter;  beat  well  together,  flavor  to  suit 
taste,  and  bake  in  1  crust  only  of  rich  puff  paste.  Cover  with  a 
meringue,  if  desired. 

VINEGAR  PIE — Take  1  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  vinegar,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  3  tablespoons  of  flour,  2  cux)s  of  water,  1  teaspoon  of  cinna- 
mon.    Boil  till  thick,  pour  into  the  crust  and  bake. 

WASHINGTON  PIE — For  the  crust,  use  2  cups,  sugar,  ^  cup 
butter,  3  cups  sifted  flour,  4  eggs,  ^  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  for  the 
filling,  1  tablespoon  corn  starch,  boiled  in  -|  pint  milk;  beat  the  yolk 
of  1  egg  very  liglit,  and  stir  into  the  milk;  flavor  with  vanilla,  and, 
when  cold,  add  the  oDier  half  of  the  milk  and  the  white  of  the  egg, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  iVoth  and  stirred  in  quickly;  spread  this  bolwoon  the 
cakes,  and  ico  il  >vill\  the  white  of  1  egg  and  8  tablespoons  o'i  finely 
sifted  sugar,  llavuiwl  willi  lemon. 


312  TAKTS 

TARTS. 

TARTLETS. — Cut  rounds  of  rich  pie=crust,  put  a  strip  of  the 
same  around  the  edges  and  bake;  when  wanted,  a  little  jam,  jelly  or 
preserves  can  be  placed  in  each  one  before  serving. 

CRANBERRY  TART. — Stew  a  pint  of  cranberries  with  a  very 
little  water,  and  sweeten  while  hot.  When  cold,  if  not  sweet  enough, 
add  more  sugar.  Bake  with  an  under  crust,  and  when  the  tart  is 
cool  cover  with  a  meringue,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

GOOSEBERRY  TART — Stew  the  gooseberries  until  they  are 
soft,  in  a  very  little  water,  but  be  careful  and  not  break  them;  drain 
the  water  from  them,  put  them  on  a  bottom  crust,  sprinkle  a  layer 
of  sugar  over  them,  then  lay  twisted  strips  of  puff  paste  acioss  in 
diamond  shape,  or  bake  the  crust  separately  in  lieart=shapes,  (see 
"  Flauns  ")  and  lay  it  on  the  tart  after  baking  in  one  crust. 

LEMON  TARTS — Mix  together  thoroughy  1  pint  sugar,  8  eggs, 
well  beaten,  1  tablespoon  butter,  and  2  whole  lemons  grated;  set  it  on 
the  stove,  stir  until  it  boils  up,  and  put  aside  to  cool.  Fill  into  tart- 
lets at  any  time,  as  it  will  keep  for  weeks. 

PINEAPPLE  TARTS — Cut  as  many  heart-shaped  pieces  of  puff 
paste  as  the  pie  is  to  be  divided  into;  bake  them  in  a  tin  in  the  oven 
until  they  are  light  and  brown;  line  a  pie^plate  with  nice  pie^crust, 
or  puff  paste,  and  bake  that.  Take  a  grated  pineapple,  stew  until 
tender  in  a  very  little  water,  then  add  ^  cup  of  sugar  mixed  with 
corn^starch,  and  stir  until  it  is  thick;  then  pour  it  into  the  baked 
bottom  crust  to  cool.  When  cool  and  solid,  brush  over  the  top 
with  the  white  of  an  egg,  lay  a  heart  of  puff  paste  on  each  division 
of  the  tart,  and  it  will  adhere  to  it  when  dry.  Arrowroot  or  crack- 
er=dust  can  be  used  instead  of  the  corn=starch,  in  fruit  pies  or  tarts 
if  preferred. 

STRAWBERRY  TART.— Sprinkle  sugar  over  the  berries  and 
let  them  lie  over  night; before  using,  drain  off  the  juice,  and  bake  the 
fruit  in  one  crust,  with  strips  of  paste  twisted  and  crossed  over  the 
tart  in  diamond  shape;  or  puff  paste  may  be  baked  in  heart  shape 
and  laid  on  the  tart  after  it  is  baked. 

The  juice  drawn  from  the  berries  can  be  boiled  with  added 
sugar,  and  the  syrup  bottled  and  sealed  while  hot,  to  be  used  in  pud- 
ding sauces,  or  diluted  with  water  for  a  summer  beverage. 

Canned  strawberries  and  other  small  fruits  can  be  made  into 
tarts  in  the  same  way  by  draining  off  the  juice. 


SHORTCAKES  313 

FLAUNS  [Parisian  Tarts). — Stew  fresh  fruit  of  any  kind  as 
for  a  comi^ote — that  is,  it  should  be  somewhat  sweeter  than  for  fruit 
sauce,  but  not  like  preserves.  Make  a  plain  crust  and  line  pie^plates, 
cover  them  thickly  with  the  stewed  fruit,  and  bake  without  an  upper 
crust.  Have  some  nice  pufp  paste,  cut  it  with  a  heart-shaped  cookey= 
cutter,  and  bake  the  hearts  separately  in  a  hot  oven  on  baking4ins; 
when  the  jBauns  are  cold,  and  the  paste  cooled  after  baking,  brush 
over  the  tops  of  the  tarts  with  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg;  then  place 
a  heart  of  paste  over  each  part  of  the  tart  to  be  cut  for  each  person; 
the  points  or  the  hearts  are  to  be  turned  toward  the  center  of  the 
tarts. 


SHORTCAKES. 

Make  a  soft  dough  as  for  baking  powder  biscuit  (see  "  Baking 
Powder  Biscuit");  take  it  on  the  molding=board  and  divide  the 
dough  into  2  parts,  making  it  up  lightly  in  round  masses;  do  not 
mold  or  knead  it,  but  flatten  each  x^iece  of  dough  down  into  buttered 
jelly^cake  tins,  or  any  round  pans;  bake  quickly  and  turn  each  one 
on  a  dinner  plate;  slice  off  the  top  of  each  one,  butter  each  piece, 
spread  with  the  prepared  fruit,  place  one^half  on  the  other,  and  have 
fruit  on  top.  This  makes  2  cakes,  which,  cut  in  quarters,  will  serve  8 
persons.  For  1  cake  use  ^  cup  milk  for  mixing,  and  other  ingredi- 
ents in  proportion. 

The  fruit  used  should  be  prepared  with  sufficient  sugar  and 
ready  at  hand,  so  that  there  will  be  no  delay  when  the  cakes  are 
taken  from  the  oven. 

A  little  fine  white  cornmeal  added  to  the  flour  in  making  short- 
cake is  thought  an  improvement  and  much  relished  by  some  people. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE.— Prepare  the  cake  as  above, 
split  it,  butter,  and  spread  on  the  berries,  If  small  they  can  be 
sweetened  and  spread  on  whole;  if  large  they  can  be  mashed  or 
chopped  and  sweetened,  and  then  spread  on.  Chopping  is  better 
than  mashing  the  berries.     Serve  with  cream. 

APPLE  SHORTCAKE — As  soon  as  the  cake  is  baked,  split  it 
open,  spread  one  piece  with  butter,  spread  it  with  welhsweetened 
apple  sauce,  pour  on  some  thick  sweet  cream,  grate  on  nutmeg,  then 
lay  on  the  other  piece  and  cover  it  the  same  way. 

BANANA  SHORTCAKE.— Slice  the  bananas  and  mix  with 
oranges  in  the  proportion  of  3  bananas  to  1  orange;  grate  the  outside 


314  SHORTCAKES 

of  the  orange  peei  and  mix  it  with  1  cup  of  sugar;  spread  the  whole 
over  the  buttered  cakes.  It  is  an  improvement  to  add  4  tablespoons 
of  sweet  cream,  beaten  stiff. 

BERRY  SHORTCAKES — Any  of  the  small  berries,  like  rasp- 
berries, blackberries,  or  blueberries,  make  nice  shortcakes.  Sweeten 
the  berries  and  make  like  strawberry  shortcake.  Black  and  red 
rasphemes  mixed,  or  raspberries  with  a  few  ripe  curi'ants  mixed  in 
make  delicious  shortcakes. 

CRANBERRY  SHORTCAKES — Stew  the  cranberries,  make 
them  quite  sweet,  and  spread  on  the  prepared  cake. 

FRUIT  SHORTCAKES — Any  kind  of  stewed  or  canned  fruit 
can  be  used  for  shortcake.  Apples,  rhubarb,  or  pears  stewed  and 
sweetened  to  taste  are  nice;  prepare  the  fruit,  have  it  ready,  and 
spread  it  on  the  shortcake  as  soon  as  that  is  baked. 

JAM  SHORTCAKE — Bake  the  shortcake,  split  it,  and  spread  on 
raspberry  or  other  jam,  as  for  layer  cakes,  only  thicker.  Serve  with 
cream. 

PEACH  SHORTCAKE — Slice  and  sweeten  the  peaches,  and 
spread  on  the  buttered  cakes,  as  directed  for  other  shortcakes. 

Apricots,  or  any  other  kind  of  fruit,  may  be  used  the  same  way. 

ORANGE  SHORTCAKE — Make  a  shortcake,  as  before  described; 
then  slice  oranges,  and  put  in  layers  of  these,  with  sugar  and  cream. 
Serve  with  sweetened  cream. 

For  chicken  shortcake  see  page  154, 


PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS. 

fN  making  pudding  all  the  materials — butter,  eggs,  milk,  and 
fruit — should  be  good.  After  cutting  suet  into  slices  and  free- 
ing it  from  fibrous  matter,  chop  it  finely,  dredging  it  lightly 
with  flour  during  the  process  to  keep  the  pieces  from  sticking 
together.  Suet  or  milk,  which  is  tainted  in  the  least,  will  ruin  a 
pudding.  Fruit,  when  added,  should  be  stirred  in  the  last  thing,  the 
same  as  with  cake.  Wet  fruit  will  make  the  pudding  heavy,  so  have 
it  dry  before  putting  it  in  the  pudding.  The  rules  for  preparing 
raisins  and  currants  are  the  same  as  for  "Cake"  (which  see).  See 
also  what  we  say  there  about  grating  lemon  or  orange  peel. 

Have  all  spices  and  almonds,  which  are  used,  finley  powdered. 
Break  eggs  separately,  for  1  bad  one  will  spoil  the  others;  beat  yolks 
and  whites  separately.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  strain  the  yolks;  add  the 
whites  last.  A  pinch  of  salt  is  an  improvement  to  all  puddings,  but 
add  it  sparingly,  as  its  flavor  should  not  be  detected.  Do  not  add 
eggs  to  boiled  milk  till  it  cools  a  little,  or  they  will  coagulate  into 
little  lumps. 

Sugar  should  be  used  sparingly,  as  an  excess  of  sugar  is  the 
cause  of  many  a  broken  pudding. 

The  ingredients  for  pudding  are  generally  better  for  being  mixed 
some  time  before  they  are  wanted.  A  batter  pudding  is  better  for 
standing  a  while.  When  you  make  a  batter  pudding,  first  mix  the 
flour  well  with  milk,  and  stir  in  the  other  ingredients  by  degrees ;  it 
will  then  be  smooth  and  quite  free  from  lumps.  Another  good  way 
is  to  strain  it  through  a  coarse  hair  sieve. 

The  Cloth  Used. — A  thick  cloth  is  best  for  boiling  large  puddings. 
Canton  flannel,  with  the  nap  side  out,  is  excellent,  although  some 
cooks  use  muslin.  Dip  the  cloth  into  boiling  water  before  putting 
in  the  pudding,  then  wring  it,  spread  it  over  a  basin,  and  dredge  it 
evenly  and  thickly  with  flour;  then  put  in  the  pudding,  gather  up 
the  corners  of  the  cloth,  and  tie  them.  If  it  is  a  bread  pudding,  tie 
it  loose;  if  a  batter  pudding,  tie  it  nearly  close;  fruit  puddings 
should  be  tied  quite  close.  As  soon  as  possible  after  it  is  taken  off 
of  the  pudding  the  cloth  should  be  soaked  in  water,  and  then  well 
washed,  without  soap  unless  it  is  very  greasy.  Then  dry  it  well,  fold 
it  up,  and  keep  in  a  dry  place.  It  is  perhaps  needless  to  state  that 
there  should  be  no  holes  in  the  cloth. 

315 


316  PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS 

TO  BOIL  PUDDINGS.— The  correct  method  is  to  put  them  at 
first  into  hoiling  water,  and  it  should  be  kc^d  boiling  until  they  are 
done.  Never  keep  them  simmering  in  moderately  hot  water,  as  act- 
ive hoiling  is  what  they  need.  The  principle  is  the  same  as  described 
for  cooking  vegetables.  Always  beat  up  the  pudding  just  before 
pouring  it  into  the  cloth.  Keep  the  pudding  covered  with  water, 
and  if  it  boils  away  pour  in  more  water  which  is  hoiling.  Move 
puddings  occasionally,  to  keep  them  from  sticking  to  the  kettlp.  An 
inverted  plate  or  saucer  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  will  save  the 
pudding  from  burning  or  sticking  to  the  bottom.  When  the  pud- 
ding is  done,  lift  it  out  and  dij)  it  at  once  in  cold  water,  let  it  stand 
to  cool  a  minute,  and  the  cloth  will  not  adhere  to  it,  nor  will  it 
break;  untie  the  cloth  and  turn  it  away  from  the  pudding,  place  a 
hot  dish  on  top  of  it,  and  turn  the  j)udding  into  it.  If  boiled  in 
molds,  treat  the  same  way.  Serve  immediately,  for  if  a  pudding  is 
allowed  to  stand,  it  will  darken,  fall,  and  be  ruined.  When  preferred, 
the  pudding  may  be  boiled  in  a  Ijasin,  but  first  grease  the  basin  or 
mold  well,  and  after  putting  in  the  pudding,  tie  a  floured  cloth 
over  it. 

Time  to  Boil. — There  is  an  old  saying  that  puddings  cannot  be 
too  well  boiled;  and  certainly  there  is  more  danger  of  boiling  them 
too  short  than  too  long  a  time.  They  need  to  boil  from  2  to  4  hours 
usually. 

STEAMING — As  a  rule  puddings  will  be  lighter  and  better  if 
they  are  steamed  rather  than  baked  or  boiled.  Put  them  into  a  well 
greased  tin  pan  or  earthen  dish,  dredge  a  thick  cloth  with  flour,  tie  it 
on  top,  set  the  dish  in  the  steamer  and  cover  it  closely.  Put  the 
steamer  over  hoiling  water,  which  should  be  hept  boiling,  and  during 
the  whole  process  of  steaming  do  not  remove  the  cover. 

Time  to  Steam. — It  takes  a  little  longer  to  steam  than  to  boil  a 
pudding,  and  the  steaming  should  be  thorough.  It  will  take  from  2 
to  4^  hours  to  steam  puddings  w^ell. 

BAKING — When  baked  puddings  are  sufiiciently  solid,  turn  them 
out  of  the  dish  they  were  baked  in,  bottom  uppermost,  and  strew  fine- 
ly sifted  sugar  over  them.  If  the  outside  of  baked  puddings  are  suffi- 
ciently brown,  and  yet  they  are  not  baked  through,  put  a  piece  of 
white  paper  over  them  which  will  prevent  the  top  from  burning  be- 
fore they  are  thoroughly  cooked.  Puddings  made  of  custard  require 
more  care  in  baking  than  others,  and  should  never  remain  in  the  oven 
until  they  become  watery;  they  will  be  thicker  and  richer  if  made 
with  1  egg  and  baked  slowly,  than  if  made  with  3  eggs  and  baked 


PUDDING  SAUCES  317 

quickly.  Any  pudding  in  which  milk  and  eggs  are  used,  will  sepa- 
rate if  the  oven  is  too  hot,  and  it  should  therefore  be  cooked  at  a  low 
temperature. 

The  time  to  hake  depends  on  the  joudding,  a  rice  or  tapioca  pud- 
ding baking  in  about  1  hour,  while  a  plum  pudding  takes  2  or  3 
hours. 

TO  CREAM  BUTTER — In  making  cake  and  the  better  class  of 
puddings  it  is  often  desirable  to  beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  before  us- 
ing it.  Put  the  butter  in  an  earthenware  vessel  (but  do  not  use  tin 
or  iron,  as  they  will  discolor  it),  and  beat  it  with  a  spoon  or  fork — a 
wooden  or  silver  fork  or  spoon  is  best.  After  beating  it  about,  the 
butter  gradually  comes  back  into  a  creamy  state,  but  thicker  than 
cream  itself,  and  is  then  "  creamed  butter."  If  cold,  warm  the  ves- 
sel by  pouring  hot  water  in  it;  then  wipe  it  dry  before  using  it. 


PUDDING  SAUCES. 

Do  not  boil  a  sauce  after  adding,  the  butter.  If  sugar  and  cream 
are  served  for  a  pudding  sauce,  pass  them  separately,  letting  each  one 
use  what  their  taste  desires. 

Caramel. — This  makes  a  fine  flavoring  for  sauces  as  well  as 
soups,  and  can  be  preijared  as  directed  for  soups.  The  ^jrei^ared  car- 
amel can  be  used  if  you  have  it  on  hand.  ( See  the  recipe  for  pre- 
l^aring  it,  given  in  our  article  on  colors  for  frostings,  in  the  chapter 
on  Cake.) 

Caramel  Syrup — Sprinkle  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  over  the  bot- 
tom of  the  frying-pan  and  put  over  the  fire  until  it  bubbles  brown 
and  begins  to  smoke,  but  do  not  let  it  burn  black;  then  add  a  pint  of 
water,  and  let  it  boil  until  the  caramel  is  dissolved;  then  add  2  cups 
granulated  sugar  and  melt  to  a  syrujp.  If  liked  heavier,  add  more 
sugar.  This  makes  a  fine  substitute  for  maple  sugar,  and  has  much 
the  same  flavor.     It  is  also  excellent  with  griddle  cakes. 

Substitute  for  Cream. — Use  2  cups  sweet  milk,  yolk  of  1  egg,  1 
teaspoon  of  flour,  sugar  to  sweeten,  and  any  flavoring  desired. 
Boil  the  milk,  beat  the  egg  and  flour  with  sugar  enough  to  make  quite 
sweet;  stir  this  into  the  milk  when  that  boils,  and  let  it  simmer  (not 
boil),  stirring  it  well;  flavor  to  taste  when  it  cools.  This  is  better 
than  thin  cream,  and  good  for  any  pudding  in  which  eggs  are  used. 

ACID  PUDDING  SAUCE.~Mix  together  thoroughly  1  cup 
sugar,  \  cup  butter,  and  2  tablespoons  flour;  add  a  little  vinegar  or 


318  PUDDING  SAUCES 

juice  of  some  acid  fruit,  and  a  little  nutmeg;  pour  on  about  2  cups  of 
boiling  water,  and  boil  a  few  minutes. 

BERRY  PUDDING  SAUCE — Use  2  eggs,  ^  cup  butter,  and  1 
cup  sugar  beaten  well,  with  1  cujo  boiling  milk,  and  1  cup  berries, 
steamed  apx)les,  or  any  fruit  (chopped)  you  may  have.  Or  (2)  cream 
|-  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  1  cup  of  any  fresh  berries  and  stir 
well  together.     Jam  or  marmalade  can  be  used  instead  of  the  berries. 

BROWN  PUDDING  SAUCE— Take  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  *  cup  of 
butter,  1  cup  of  sugar;  stir  all  to  a  cream,  and  add  the  whites  of  2 
eggs,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

CIDER  SAUCE — Use  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  2  tablesj)oons  of 
butter,  4  tablespoons  of  boiled  cider,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  ^  cuiJ  boil- 
ing water.  Mix  the  flour  and  butter,  stir  in  the  sugar  and  cider,  add 
the  boiling  water,  mix  all  thoroughly,  and  simmer  a  little  while. 

CREAM  SAUCE. — Sweet  cream,  either  alone  or  sent  with  white 
sugar,  makes  an  excellent  sauce  for  most  puddings;  it  is  sometimes 
flavored. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  SAUCE.— Whip  1  cup  ice  cold  sweet  cream 
and  ^  cuj)  powdered  sugar;  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  or  lemon.  The 
beaten  whites  of  1  to  3  eggs  are  often  added.  Nice  with  fruit  pud- 
dings, or  to  cover  slices  of  sponge  cake. 

Use  also  the  "Mock  Whipped  Cream  "  given  among  our  fillings 
for  cake.      It  is  delicious. 

DELICATE  PUDDING  SAUCE.— Scald  a  teacup  of  sweet  milk, 
beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  §  cup  of  brown  sugar,  and  stir  in;  when 
it  is  thick  as  custard  remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  add  what- 
ever flavoring  you  choose,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth. 

DUTCH  SAUCE — Take  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  whites  of  2 
eggs.  Beat  together  with  sufficient  sugar  to  give  the  proper  consist- 
ency. 

EGG  SAUCE — Beat  to  a  cream  1  cup  sugar,  and  ^  cup  butter, 

add  1  egg,  beaten  separately,  and  set  it  over  a  kettle  of  hot  water. 

FOAMING  SAUCE — Use  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of 
boiling  water.  Beat  the  sugar  and  yolks  together;  pour  the  boiling 
water  over.     Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in  last. 

Foam  Sauce,  No.  2 — Take  the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  beat  it  with  1  cup 
sugar  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  until  light,  add  boiling  water  and 
set  it  over  a  kettle  until  cooked;  flavor  with  lemon  juice;  beat  the 
white  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  the  last  thing. 


PUDDING  SAUCES  819 

FRUIT  JUICE  SAUCE — Take  ^-  pint  of  any  kind  of  fruit  juice, 
like  apricot,  peach,  etc.,  add  1  teaspoon  of  flour  or  corn^starch  and  ^ 
cup  sugar;  mix  well,  boil  5  minutes,  and  strain. 

GOLDEN  SAUCE — Beat  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  into  1 
cup  of  powdered  sugar  until  light;  stir  into  this  the  yolks  of  3  eggs 
and  3  tablespoons  of  milk  or  cream,  and  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs.  Set  the  bowl  in  which  the  sauce  is  being  made  in  a  ket- 
tle of  boiling  water,  and  stir  constantly  until  it  thickens,  but  no 
longer;  add  lemon  or  vanilla  when  the  sauce  's   done. 

JELLY  SAUCE — Use  2  tablespoons  of  jelly,  2  heaping  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  |-  teaspoon  of  corn^starch  and  water.  Melt  the  jelly 
and  sugar  in  ^  pint  of  boiling  water;  then  dissolve  the  corn=starch  in 

1  cup  of  cold  water  and  stir  it  in;  bring  to  a  boil  and  it  will  be  done. 
Any  jelly  can  be  used. 

HARD  LEMON  SAUCE.— Mix  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  with 

2  cups  sugar,  and  beat  it  to  a  cream  with  1  cup  butter;  then 
thoroughly  mix  with  the  sauce  the  strained  juice  of  the  lemon. 

Hard  Vanilla  Sauce  is  made  by  beating  to  a  cream  1  cup  butter 
and  2  cups  sugar,  and  then  mixing  in  1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract. 
Either  of  these  go  well  with  plain  boiled  rice. 

LEMON  SAUCE — Cream  together  1  cup  sugar  and  ^  cup  but- 
ter; add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  egg  well  beaten,  and 
1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg;  set  the  dish  containing  it  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water,  add  ^  cup  boiling  water,  and  stir  5  minutes.  Keep  hot  until 
used. 

Lemon  Sauce,  No.  2. — Take  1  cup  of  sugar,  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  1  lemon,  2  cups  water,  1  tablespoon  corn-starch;  boil  from  8  to  10 
minutes. 

LOMBARD  SAUCE. — Heat  2  cups  cream  slowly,  set  in  a  sauce= 
pan  of  boiling  water;  when  scalding  hot,  remove  it  from  the  fire,  add 
4  teaspoons  powdered  sugar,  and  ^  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg;  stir  2  or 

3  minutes,  add  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  mis  thoroughly, 
add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  to  flavor,  and  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  to 
keep  hot  till  served,  stirring  occasionally. 

MAPLE  SAUCE — Beat  well  together  2  cups  maple  sugar,  juice 
of  2  lemons,  2  eggs,  and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut;  steam  20 
minutes.     Good  also  on  fritters. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  SAUCE.— Shave  maple  sugar  into  a  bowl  of 
thick,  sweet  cream.  It  makes  one  of  the  best  of  sauces  for  cornmeal 
pudding. 


•!20  PUDDING  SAUCES 

MILK  PUDDiiNQ  SAUCE.— Take  1  egg,  -|  cup  butter,  1  cup  of 
sugar;  mix  thoroughly  together,  and  then  pour  over  them  1  cup 
boiling  milk.     Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  vanilla. 

MOLASSES  SAUCE.— Use  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  ^  cup  of 
water,  1  cup  of  molasses,  ^  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  (or  nutmeg),  ^ 
teaspoon  of  salt,  juice  of  1  lemon.  Mix  all  together,  and  boil  20 
minutes.     Good  for  rice  or  apple  puddings. 

ORANGE  SAUCE. — Use  1  cup  hot  water,  1  cup  sugar,  ^  yup 
butter,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  corn-starch  wet  in  the  strained  juice 
of  2  acid  oranges  (the  red,  or  blood  oranges  are  the  best);  boil  the 
water,  sugar  and  orange  ijeel  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  then  add 
the  corn-starch  and  orange  juice,  and  let  boil  until  it  thickens;  take 
out  the  orange  peel  and  add  the  butter,  with  1  saltspoon  of  salt;  stir 
well  together,  and  serve. 

PINEAPPLE  SAUCE. — Use  4  tablesi^oons  sugar  (heaping),  2 
tablespoons  of  butter,  white  of  1  egg  (beaten),  pineapple  to  flavor. 
Mix  the  sugar,  butter  and  beaten  egg,  and  add  the  flavor.  Shape  it 
into  a  pyramid,  and  make  the  sides  like  a  pine=aj)ple,  using  the  point 
of  a  teaspoon.     Any  other  flavor  can  be  used,  if  preferred. 

PLAIN  PUDDING  SAUCE — Beat  together  thoroughly,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  flour;  add  the 
white  of  1  egg,  well  beaten,  and  -|  cup  boiling  water,  and  any  flavor- 
ing desired.  This  makes  a  good  sauce  for  ordinary  uses,  although 
most  sauce  recipes  call  for  more  butter.  It  goes  well  with  any  hot 
pudding. 

PLUM  PUDDING  SAUCE.— Rub  2  spoons  of  corn^starch 
smooth  with  a  little  milk,  and  stir  it  into  1  pint  of  boiling  water;  add 
a  large  piece  of  butter,  and  use  currant  jelly  to  flavor  it  with.  It 
may  be  well  to  know  that  a  good  foundation  for  plum  pudding  sauce 
is  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled,  as  that  is  quite  rich. 

Plum  Pudding  Sauce  No.  2.— Use  fresh  butter  and  pulverized  or 
granulated  sugar  beaten  together  until  the  mixture  becomes  of  the 
consistency  of  cream. 

SWEET  PUDDING  SAUCE.— Beat  to  a  cream  ^  cup  butter  and 
1  cup  sugar;  thicken  1^  cups  boiling  water  with  a  very  little  corn- 
starch (just  enough  to  make  it  creamy);  let  it  boil,  draw  to  the  back 
of  the  stove,  and  stir  the  butter  and  sugar  in  quickly.  Flavor  with 
vanilla,  lemon,  nutmeg,  or  anything  preferred. 

VANILLA  SAUCE — Use  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  whites  of  2  eggs,  ^ 
cuj)  sugar    (powdered),   3   tablespoons   sweet  milk,    1    teaspoon  of 


PUDDINGS  321 

vanilla.  First  beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  2  eggs;  beat  the 
sugar  in  next;  then  the  yolk  of  egg,  and  the  milk  and  vanilla  last. 
Serve  at  once.     Most  suitable  for  light  puddings. 

VINEGAR  SAUCE. — Use  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  1^  tablespoons 
of  vinegar,  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  of  butter,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  nutmeg.  Mix  the  flour  in  a  little  water  and  stir  in  the 
vinegar,  sugar,  salt  and  nutmeg;  add  the  boiling  water,  and  boil  10 
minutes;  add  the  butter  last,  just  as  it  is  about  to  be  taken  from  the 
stove. 

WHITE  PUDDING  SAUCE — Take  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  butter,  and  a  little  salt,  pour  on  1  cup  boiling  water,  and, 
when  it  boils,  thicken  with  1  large  tablespoon  of  flour  blended  in  3 
of  milk;  boil  1  minute,  flavor  with  lemon,  take  from  the  fire,  and  stir 
in  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  1  tablespoon  of 
powdered  sugar  added. 


PUDDINGS. 

Puddings  are  less  expensive  than  pies,  and  they  are  also  much 
more  wholesome. 

ALMOND    PUDDING. 

1  pint  of  milk.  1  teaspoon  lemon  essence. 

2  ounces  of  almonds.  3  tablespoons  of  flour. 
4  ounces  of  sugar.                                1  ounce  of  butter. 

3  eggs. 

Boil  the  milk  and  let  it  cool;  beat  the  eggs  lightly  with  the 
flour;  blanch  the  almonds,  and  pound  in  a  mortar  to  a  paste  with  the 
essence  of  lemon,  or  use  peach  water;  melt  the  butter  in  the  milk, 
add  the  sugar  and  pounded  almonds,  and  beat  all  well  together. 
Bake  in  buttered  cups,  or  small  molds. 

The  almond  is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  which  grows  to  a  height 
(•"f  20  to  '60  feet,  and  resembles  the  peach.  There  are  2  varie- 
liefs  the  sweet  and  the  bitter.  The  bitter  are  smaller  and 
thicker  than  the  sweet,  and  contain  prussio  acid,  a  most  ac- 
tive poison.  In  domestic  economy  the  sweet  should  always 
be  used  in  preference  to  the  others.  Although  considered 
nourishing  they  often  disagree  with  those  of  weak  digestion. 

APPLE  PUDDING.— Use  1^  lbs.  peeled  ap- 
ples; make  it  into  apple  sauce,  sweeten  and  spice 
to  taste,  add  4  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter  -|  the  size  of 
an  egg,  and  flour  to  stiffen ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Servo  with  a  good  sauce,  or  sugar  and  cream. 
21. 


322  PUDDINGS 

APPLE  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

1  cup  Indian  meal.  2  teaspoons  salt. 

1  cup  molasses.  3  tablespoons  butter. 

A  little  ginger  and  nutmeg.  1  quart  apples,  pared  and  quart- 

2  quarts  milk.  ered  (not  too  sour). 

Scald  the  milk  and  pour  it  gradually  on  the  meal;  put  this  in 
the  double  boiler  and  cook  ^  hour,  stirring  often.  Butter  a  deep 
pudding  dish,  add  molasses,  butter,  spices  and  apples  to  this  ^lixture, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  3  hours.  If  any  remains  it  may  be  eaten 
cold  with  cream  or  milk  next  day. 

BERRY  PUDDING. 

1  cup  milk.  1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

3  cups  flour.  2  tablespoons  baking  powder, 

1  egg.  1^  cups  berries    or   fruit   of  any 

kind. 

Steam  2  hours. 

No.  2. — Mix  1  cup  sugar  (|  cup  will  do  very  well),  2  tablespoons 
butter,  add  2  cups  flour  with  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  into 
it,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup  milk  and  1  egg;  cover  a  buttered  pudding 
dish  thick  with  berries,  pour  this  batter  over  them,  and  bake  about 
40  minutes.  This  is  delicious  with  fresh  blackberries,  but  is  nearly 
as  good  with  apples  peeled  and  sliced,  or  with  canned  huckleberries 
or  blackberries.  For'  sauce,  use  3  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
butter,  1  egg,  and  flavoring. 

BIRD'S  NEST  PUDDING. 
Flour    enough    to    make   a   stiff    1  egg, 

batter,  1  teaspoon  of  soda. 

1  pint  sour  milk.  A  little  salt. 

Pare  4  or  5  apples,  take  out  the  cores,  place  in  a  buttered  dish 
and  pour  over  the  batter.  Bake  about  ^  hour.  Use  hard  sauce  or 
cream. 

BLACK  PUDDING.— Sift  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  into  1  cup 
flour,  add  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  a  pinch  of 
salt;  wet  with  milk  till  smooth,  and  add  1  cup  molasses,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  1  egg;  bake  in  a  greased  pudding  dish  |  hour.  Use  foam 
sauce  or  hard  sauce, 

BREAD  CRUMB  PUDDING.— Take  1  teacup  of  dried  crumbs, 
soak  with  boiling  water,  add  2  cups  milk,  2  eggs,  a  full  ^  cup  of 
sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoon  of  flavoring,  and  bake.  It  will 
be  an  improvement  to  cover  it  with  a  meringue  and  brown  in  the 
oven  when  cool;  or  spread  a  little  jam  on  top. 


PUDDINGS  323 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  soaked  in       2  eggs  (well  beaten). 

4  cups  milk.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  teaspoon  butter  (heaping).  1  saltspoon  nutmeg. 

^  cup  white  sugar. 

Stir  well  together  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  f  to  1 
hour. 

A  nice  dessert  is  made  by  stirring  into  a  common  bread  pudding 
almost  any  kind  of  fruit,  such  as  apples,  raisins,  peaches,  prunes, 
dates,  figs,  cranberry  sauce,  jelly  etc.;  then  bake.  Many  varieties  are 
thus  easily  produced. 

BEEAD  PUDDING  No.  2. 

1  quart  of  milk.  1  small  cup  sugar. 

1  pint  bread  crumbs.  1^  teaspoons  vanilla  extract. 

8  eggs.  A  small  piece  of  butter. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  stir  them  with  the  rest  of  the  ingre- 
dients, reserving  the  whites  for  the  top.  Bake  the  pudding  25  min- 
utes, then  take  it  from  the  oven,  spread  a  layer  of  currant  jelly  over 
the  top;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  1  tablespoon 
of  sugar,  spread  this  on  top  of  the  jelly,  return  to  the  oven  to  brown 
on  top.  Raspberry  jam  is  equally  as  good  as  jelly  for  this  pudding. 
Serve  with  cream  or  a  hot  sauce. 

BERRY  BREAD  PUDDING.— Cut  stale  bread  in  even  slices, 
pare  off  the  crust,  and  butter  each  slice;  put  the  largest  slice  on  a 
platter,  cover  it  with  canned  huckleberries  or  blackberries  which  are 
heated  scalding  hot;  put  on  another  slice,  cover  it  with  the  berries, 
and  so  on  till  all  is  used,  and  you  have  a  neat  mound  of  pudding. 
This  may  be  covered  and  kept  hot  in  the  warming  closet  until  serv- 
ing time,  and  eaten  with  hard  sauce,  or  made  early  in  the  day  and 
served  cold  with  sugar  and  cream — it  is  delicious  either  way.  If 
the  berries  are  very  sweet,  adding  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar  is 
an  improvement. 

STEAMED    BREAD    PUDDING. 


1  pint  bread  crumbs. 

1  cup  raisins. 

1  cup  molasses. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  hot  water  poured  on  the 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

bread. 

1  egg. 

1  cup  flour. 

Spices  to  taste. 

Steam  2  hours.     Good  and  inexpensive. 

CAKE  PUDDING — Soak   slices  of  stale  cake  in  lemonade  and 
lay  them  in  a  pudding  dish.     Pour  over  it  a  soft  custard,  and  cover 


324  PUDDINGS 

it  with  a  meringue;  then  place  it  in  the  oven  to  brown  slightly. 
To  be  eaten  cold. 

Cake  Pudding  No.  2. — Cut  thin  slices  of  stale  cake  of  any  kind, 
enough  to  fill  a  pudding  dish  §  full;  then  make  plain  "sweet  sauce" 
enough  to  cover  all,  and  let  it  stand  in  the  oven  until  time  to  serve. 
A  little  lemon,  or  other  fruit  juice,  can  be  added  to  the  sweet  sauce 
if  liked. 

Cake  Pudding  No.  3. — Put  any  kind  of  stale  cake  in  a  steamer  -| 
hour  before  dinner,  and  steam  it  through;  prepare  a  sauce  by  tak- 
ing ^  cup  sugar,  1  even  tablespoon  of  flour,  a  little  water  to  moisten; 
stir  well  together,  pour  in  1^  cups  boiling  water,  grate  in  a  little 
nutmeg,  and  boil  10  minutes;  add  a  spoon  of  vinegar,  and  serve 
with  the  cake  cut  up  in  thick  slices. 

CALIFORNIA  PUDDING.— Use  1  cup  sugar,  |  cup  butter,  |  cup 
molasses,  ^  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  teaspoon  soda, 
2^  cups  flour.  Steam  3  hours.  Eat  with  whipi^ed  cream,  or  our 
mock  whipped  cream  (which  see),  or  with  our  egg  sauce. 

CANNED  PUDDING — Soak  and  wash  1  pint  of  tapioca,  and 
add  3  pints  of  warm  water,  and  let  it  stand  3  hours  in  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water;  then  place  in  glass  fruit  jars  a  layer  of  sliced  peaches, 
with  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  them,  then  a  layer  of  tapioca,  adding 
alternate  layers  until  the  cans  are  filled;  then  set  them  in  a  kettle 
in  f  their  dej)th  of  water,  let  the  water  come  to  boiling  and  keep 
the  jars  in  ^  hour;  then  take  them  out  and  seal  them.  A  thickly 
folded  cloth  must  be  under  the  jars  to  keep  them  from  touching  the 
bottom  of  the  kettle.  Tapioca  and  apples  can  be  canned  the  same 
way.  Serve  either  hot  or  cold,  with  sweetened  cream,  or  any  liquid 
sauce.  This  canned  pudding  is  convenient  in  case  you  need  a  des- 
sert in  a  hurry. 

CHARLOTTE  PUDDING — Butter  a  mold,  then  line  it  with  thin 
slices  of  bread  well  buttered,  with  a  well-buttered  slice  on  the  bot- 
tom; fill  with  nice  baking  apples  pared,  quartered  and  cored,  sea- 
soned with  sugar  and  spices  to  taste;  cover  it  with  a  thin  slice  of 
bread  well  buttered ;  put  a  plate  or  tin  cover  over  that,  and  bake  2 
hours.  Sponge  cake  may  be  substituted  for  bread,  or  slices  of  any 
plain  cake,  if  it  is  preferred. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING.— Whip  to  a  cream  1  cup  sugar  and  | 
cup  butter;  add  -|  pint  of  milk,  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten; 
add  1  pint  of  flour  and  1  oz.  of  chocolate  or  cocoa  which  has  been 
melted  over  hot  water  and  beat  until  smooth;   then  add  the  whites 


PUDDINGS  B25 

of  the  2  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  1  teaspoon  baking  powder;   put  it  in 
cups,  and  steam  f  hour. 

CHRISTMAS    PUDDING. 
1  cup  finely  chopped  suet.  1  cup  Zante  currants. 

1  cup  seeded  raisins.  1  cup  molasses. 

1  egg.  1  even  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  flour.  1  even  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  sugar.  Cinnamon  and  allspice  to  season. 

Prepare  the  day  before  the  pudding  is  cooked.  Wash  the  cur- 
rants and  pick  over  carefully;  then  put  them  wet  into  a  cooking 
bowl  to  stand  over  night,  and  all  the  other  ingredients  excepting  the 
flour  and  soda;  beat  well.  The  next  morning  add  the  flour  and 
soda,  and  beat,  and  stir  together  again;  put  in  the  pudding  basin 
or  mold,  and  steam  4  hours.  The  water  must  boil  in  the  steamer- 
kettle,  and  be  kept  boiling  until  the  pudding  is  taken  up.  Hot  water 
from  the  tea-kettle  can  be  added  as  needed. 

CHERRY  PUDDING — Put  pitted  and  sweet- 
ened cherries  an  inch  deep  or  so,  in  the  bottom  of 
a  pudding  dish.  Take  1  cup  sugar,  beaten  to  a 
cream  with  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  1  egg,  1  cup 
milk,  2  cups  flour,  and  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der; mix  well,  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  lemon,  pour 
over  the  cherries,  and  bake.  Then  turn  from  the 
dish,  having  the  fruit  on  top;  and  serve  with 
warm  sweet  sauce.  Or  (2)  cherries  can  be  stirred 
into  a  common  bread  pudding,  and  then  baked — 
see  "  Bread  Pudding." 

The  Cherry  as  a  cultivated  fruit  tree  is  generally  sup- 
posed to  be  of  Asiatic  origin.      It  belongs  to  the  rose  order.      It  bears  a  sub«acid 
fruit  which  is  wholesome,  cooling,  laxative  and  antiscorbutic,  but  if  not  fully  ripe 
should  be  eaten  cautiously,  as  it  has  a  tendency  to  disorder  the  bowels.     Its  acid  is 
principally  malic. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING— Take  nicely  buttered  slices  of  bread, 
sprinkle  each  one  thickly  with  cocoanut  and  sugar,  and  put  them 
into  a  pie  dish.  Make  a  custard  of  2  cups  milk  and  2  eggs,  pour  it 
over,  -put  bits  of  butter  on  toj)  and  bake  1  hour. 

COCOANUT  RICE  PUDDING— Soak  1  cup  of  rice  in  water  3 
hours,  then  add  1  pint  of  milk  and  cook  gently  until  it  is  tender; 
beat  5  eggs  and  1  cup  of  white  sugar  together,  add  another  pint  of 
milk,  a  little  salt  and  the  rice,  mix  well,  flavor  with  lemou  and  pour 
into  a  buttered  bowl  and  boil  steadily  for  1  hour;  dip  the  bowl  into 
cold  water  after  it  is  cooked,  and  let  it  stand  about  10  minutes,  turn 


326  PUDDINGS 

out   into  a  flat  dish  and  strew  all  over  with  desiccated  cocoanut 
Serve  with  a  thin  boiled  custard  for  sauce. 

CORN    PUDDING. 

12  ears  of  corn.  4  eggs,  thoroughly  beaten. 

1  quart  of  milk.  3  taljlespoons  of  sugar. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Scald  the  corn,  then  grate  it,  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  poui 
into  a  pudding  dish.     Bake  slowly. 

CORN^^STARCH    PUDDING. 
3  cups  milk.  2   tablesj)oons    corn=starch  —  in   a 

1  teaspoon  vanilla.  little  milk. 

2  eggs,  beaten  light.  ^  cup  of  sugar. 

Let  the  milk  and  sugar  boil  before  putting  in  the  eggs,  starch  or 
vanilla.     Save  out  the  whites  of  the  eggs  for  frosting,  if  you  like. 

Corn=starch,  as  its  name  indicates,  is  the  starch  extracted  from  Indian  corn. 
It  is  light  and  easily  digested  but  is  not  very  nutritious,  as  it  is  about  84^  starch, 
and  15^  water. 

Note. — It  should  be  understood  that  starch  to  be  digestible  should  be  cooked 
about  20  minutes,  and  that  it  is  not  cooked  as  soon  as  swollen,  as  many  cooks 
imagine.  There  is  danger  of  cooking  corn=starch  too  short  a  time,  and  so  leaving 
it  indigestible,  and  with  a  raw  taste. 

CRANBERRY  PUDDING — Use  1  egg,  beaten  light,  1  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  milk,  and  sift  1  heaping  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar  and  a  little  salt  thoroughly  into  2  cups  flour;  add  1  cup  of 
cranberries,  and  steam  1^  hours.     Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

COTTAGE    PUDDING. 
1  cup  of  suet.  1  egg. 

1  cup  of  sweet  milk.  2  cups  of  flour. 

1  teaspoon  cream  tartar.  -g  teaspoon  soda 

Bake  |  hour.     Eat  with  hot  sauce. 

BAKED    COTTAGE    PUDDING. 
1  pint  of  flour.  1  small  cup  of  sugar. 

1  cup  of  milk.  1  tablespoon  of  butter. 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

STEAMED    COTTAGE    PUDDING. 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter  and     1  cup  milk. 

1  teacup  sugar  beaten  together.       1  egg. 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.         2  cups  of  flour. 

Steam  -|  hour. 

CRACKER  PUDDING — Put  a  layer  of  split  crackers  in  a  deep 
pudding  dish,  put  on  raisins,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  a  little  salt,  and 
fill  it  ^  full  with  alternate  layers  in  this  way,  packing  it  down 
tightly;  then  put  a  plate  over  it,  till  the  dish  with  milk,  and  let  it 


PUDDINGS  327 

stand  several  hours  to  soak.  Tlien  beat  2  eggs  witli  1  cup  sugar, 
pour  off  any  milk  not  absorbed  and  mix  it  with  the  eggs,  adding 
more  milk  if  needed;  pour  this  over  the  pudding,  leaving  on  the 
plate  to  keep  it  in  shape,  and  bake  about  2  hours.  It  should  retain 
its  shape  when  turned  out,  if  right.  Good  either  hot  with  sauce,  or 
cold. 

CRACKED    WHEAT    PUDDING To   1   quart  of  unskimmed 

milk  add  |  cup  uncooked  cracked  wheat,  ^  cup  sugar,  and  a  little 
piece  of  stick  cinnamon,  and  ^  cup  of  any  fruit  preferred.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven,  and  when  about  half  done  stir  in  the  crust  which 
will  be  formed,  leaving  it  to  form  another,  which  will  be  sufficiently 
brown.  Test  by  tasting  a  grain  of  the  wheat,  which  must  be  very 
soft.     Eat  when  cold. 

DATE  PUDDING — Soak  1  cup  bread  crumbs  in  1  cup  milk  10 
minutes;  add  2  beaten  eggs,  2  tablespoons  powdered  suet,  1  teaspoon 
each  of  salt  and  cinnamon  and  ^  cup  sugar;  have  1  cup  dates  cut 
into  small  pieces,  dredge  them  in  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  stir  them 
into  the  pudding,  beat  all  vigorously,  turn  into  a  well  greased  mold, 
and  steam  3  hours.  Eat  with  hard  sauce.  Or  (2)  stir  dates  into  a 
common  bread  pudding  and  bake,  see  "  Bread  Pudding." 

DELMONICO  PUDDING.— Mix  3  tablespoons  corn=starch  with  a 
little  cold  milk,  stir  it  into  4  cups  milk,  and  add  6  tablespoons  sugar 
and  5  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  together;  boil  4  or  5  minutes,  pour  it  in  a 
pudding  dish,  and  bake  30  minutes.  Beat  6  ^tablespoons  sugar  and 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  together,  si>read  it  on  top  of  the  pudding,  and 
brown  it  delicately  in  the  oven. 

DOVEK  PUDDING. 

1|  pints  stewed  apples.  |  pound  butter 

1  cup  cream.  I  eggs. 

Grated  lemon  peel  and  sugar  to 
taste. 

Put  in  the  butter  while  the  apples  are  hot;  the  remainder  when 
cool.  Dried  apples  will  do.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  a  deep  pie  tin, 
covered  with  crust. 

ENGLISH  PUDDING. 

1  cup  suet.  3^  cups  flour. 

1  cup  raisins,  chopped.  1  cup  of  milk  or  cider. 

1  cup  molasses.  ^  teaspoon  soda  dissolved   in  the 

Add  salt.  molasses. 

Steam  3  hours. 


328  PUDDmGS 

FARINA  PUDDING — Boil  a  quart  of  milk  and  water,  half  and 
half;  add  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  then  slowly  sprinkle  in  farina  until 
it  is  a  thin  mush;  turn  into  sm'all  cups  or  molds  to  harden.  Serv(^ 
cold,  one  to  each  person,  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  any  favorite  liquid 
pudding  sauce.  This  is  a  good  dessert  for  hot  weather,  and  particu- 
larly relished  by  invalids  and  children.  This  pudding  can  be  mixed 
with  milk,  sugar  and  eggs,  and  baked  like  a  rice  pudding 

FEATHER  PUDDING — Use  1  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2 
cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  tables^joons  melted  butter; 
steam  1  hour.     For  sauce,  cream  ^  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar,  add 

1  cup  raspberries  and  stir  well  together.  Any  jam  or  other  fresh 
berries  may  be  used  instead  of  the  raspberries. 

FIG  PUDDING — Use  2  cups  bread  crumbs;  chop  tine  and  add  ^ 
lb.  nice  figs;  cream  1  teacup  butter  with  ^  teacup  of  brown  sugar  and 
add  4  beaten  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately;  mix  all 
together,  put  into  a  greased  pudding  mold  and  steam  3  hours;  or  it 
can  be  boiled  in  a  pudding  bag  2^  hours.  Nice  beef  suet  can  be 
used  instead  of  butter  if  more  convenient.  Eat  with  any  good  sweet 
pudding  sauce. 

FRUIT  PUDDING — Into  the  farina  boiler  put  3  cups  rich  milk 
and  1  cup  sugar  and  bring  to  a  boil;  have  5  tablespoons  of  sifted 
flour  wet  with  1  cup  of  milk,  and  pour  on  the  hot  mixture  gradually, 
stirring  all  the  time  to  prevent  lumps;  return  to  the  kettle  and  cook 
till  it  thickens, — about  10  minutes  after  beginning  to  boil;  then  take 
from  the  stove  and  beat  while  cooling;  when  half  cooled  add  sliced 
peaches,  apricots,  bananas,  whole  raspberries,  blackberries,  huckle- 
berries or  strawberries.  Serve  ice  cold.  Vary  the  amount  of  fruit  to 
suit  taste 

This  pudding  may  be  varied  by  leaving  out  the  fruit  and  using 

2  cups  strong  coffee  instead  of  that  much  milk,  and  proceed  as 
before.  Or,  i3ut  1  square  of  chocolate  in  the  milk,  omit  the  fruit, 
and  thus  make  a  chocolate  pudding. 

GINGER  PUDDING— Take  1  cup  molasses,  1  egg,  ^  cup  butter, 
^  cup  hot  water,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon  soda;  stir  in  flour 
enough  to  make  pretty  stiff,  and  add  ^  cup  of  any  fruit  desired;  put 
in  a  greased  mold  and  steam  1^  hours. 

GOOSEBERRY  PUDDING.— Cook  the  gooseberries  until  soft,  in 
as  little  water  as  possible,  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  and  add  2  table- 
spoons butter,  3  eggs  well  beaten,  1  teacup  bread  crumbs,  |  teacup 
sugar;  put  a  border  of  puff  paste  around  the  side  of  a  pudding  dish. 


PUDDINGS  329 

beat  the  mixture  well,  or  until  very  liii;lit,  put  it  in  a  tlisli,  and  bake 
40  minutes.  As  soon  as  it  is  done  strew  suL,^ar  over  it  thickly,  and 
serve  at  once. 

GOLD  PUDDING — To  the  well^beaten  yolks  of  8  eggs,  add  | 
cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  cvip  milk;  add  1  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  fairly  stiff  batter,  a  little  salt,  and 
1  cup  seeded  raisins;  beat  all  well  together  and  steam  one  hour. 
Serve  with  our  white  pudding  sauce.  The  golden  yellow  pudding, 
with  white  sauce,  will  please  both  eye  and  palate. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING.— Take  1  cup  raisins  seeded  and  chopped, 
1  cuxj  molasses,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  1  scant  cup  sweet  milk, 
-|  teaspoon  salt,  2  cups  graham  flour;  steam  3  hours.     Fine. 

STEAMED  GRAHAM  PUDDING.— Beat  together  3  eggs  and  3 
tablespoons  sugar,  add  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  ^  cup  sour  cream, 
1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teasjooon  soda  sifted  into  3  cups  graham  flour; 
add  dried  cherries,  or  pour  over  sliced  apples,  if  fruit  is  desired,  and 
steam.     It  is  nice  with  or  without  fruit.     Eat  with  cream  and  sugar. 

HANOVER  PUDDING.— Sift  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  into  2^ 
cups  flour,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  some  spices  (say  cinnamon  and 
nutmeg),  1  cup  suet  or  ^  cup  butter,  |  cup  molasses,  1  cup  milk,  1 
egg,  1  cup  stoned  raisins;  boil  2^  to  3  hours.  Eat  with  hard  sauce, 
or  any  liquid  sauce  preferred. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING — Beat  2  eggs  without  separating, 
add  1  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1|  cups  flour  and  beat 
thoroughly;  have  2  cups  huckleberries  washed  and  dried,  dust  them 
with  flour,  add  them  to  the  pudding  Math  1  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder,  mix  quickly,  turn  into  a  greased  mold,  and  steam  1  hour. 

INDIAN  PUDDING,  BAKED— Stir  gradually  1  even  cup  corn- 
meal  in  1  quart  of  boiling  milk,  let  boil  a  few  minutes,  lift  from  the 
stove,  and  add  1  teasp)oon  butter  and  a  little  salt;  stir  in  ^  pint 
molasses,  and  ■§  pint  cold  milk  last;  put  into  a  i^udding  dish,  well 
buttered,  and  bake  3  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

No.  2. — In  1  quart  boiling  milk,  stir  1^  cups  cornmeal,  and  1  cup 
molasses;  let  it  cool  and  add  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teacup  suet,  and  stir 
in  a  little  allspice;  pour  in  2  cups  cold  milk,  and  bake. 

INDIAN  PUDDING,  BOILED.— Warm  2  cups  molasses  and  2 
cups  milk,  stir  well  together;  beat  4  eggs  and  stir  with  the  molasses 
and  milk;  add  1  lb.  beef  suet  chopj)ed  tine,  and  Indian  meal  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  batter;  add  1  teaspoon  each  of  ciiinamon  and  nulmeg, 


330  PUDDINGS 

and  a  little  grated  lemon  peel;  stir  together  well,  tie  in  the  floured 
bag,  leaving  room  to  swell,  and  boil  3  hours  Serve  hot  with  a  good 
sauce. 

No.  2.— Use  1  cup  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  2  cups  milk,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter  (or  4  table- 
spoons sour  cream),  3  eggs,  1  small  i^inch  of  soda,  and  enough  corn- 
meal  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Mix  in  the  order  giv^,  and  pour  into  a 
baking  powder  can,  or  any  other  covered  can  of  convenient  size;  set 
in  a  kettle  containing  enough  boiling  waiter  to  come  up  nearly  to  the 
top  of  the  can,  i^lace  a  weight  on  top  of  the  can  to  keep  it  upright, 
and  boil  about  2  hours.  Eat  with  the  maple  sugar  sauce  given 
among  our  i^udding  sauces. 

INDIAN  PUDDING,  STEAMED.— Use  2  cups  milk,  2  eggs,  1^ 
cups  Indian  meal,  2  small  tablespoons  beef  suet,  2  tablespoons 
molasses,  |  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  ground  ginger,  1  salt- 
spoon  salt,  a  pinch  of  soda.  Heat  the  milk  boiling  hot,  add  the  soda 
and  pour  it  upon  the  meal;  stir  well,  add  the  suet,  chopped,  and  the 
salt;  when  it  gets  cold,  add  the  eggs,  beaten  light,  the  molasses  and 
spices,  and  beat  all  hard.  Turn  in  a  welhgreased  mold,  and  steam  4 
hours.     Eat  with  hard  sauce. 

LEMON  PUDDING — Use  1  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1 
heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  and  flour  enough  to  roll  out;  roll 
in  3  sheets.  Take  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  pulverized  sugar,  and 
spread  between  the  layers  like  jelly.  Put  it  in  a  tin  and  steam  3 
hours.     Serve  with  our  Lemon  Sauce  No.  1. 

Lemon  Pudding  No.  2 — Heat  4  cups  milk,  pour.it  over  2  cups  bread 
crumbs  and  add  2  tablespoons  butter;  when  cold  add  beaten  yolks 
of  4  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon;  bake  in  a  buttered 
dish  till  firm  and  slightly  brown.  When  done,  cover  with  a 
meringue  made  of  4  whites  of  eggs  whipped  with  4  tablespoons  of 
sugar  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  brown  slightly  in  the  oven. 
Eat  warm  with  lemon  sauce. 

LOWELL  PUDDING. 
1  cup  milk.  1  teacup  suet. 

1  cup  raisins.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

I  cup  molasses.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

I  teacup  brown  sugar.  'Flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Steam  3  hours.     Serve  with  any  good  sauce. 

MINUTE  PUDDING— Use  1  quart  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  1  pint 
sifted  flour,  1  level  teaspoon  of  salt;  beat  the  eggs  well,  add  the  flour, 
and  milk  enough  to  make  it  smooth.     Butter  the  kettle,  and  put  in 


PUDDINGS  331 

the  remainder  of  the  milk  with  the  salt;  when  it  boils,  put  in  the 
eggs  and  flour,  and  cook  until  stiff.  Serve  hot  with  any  simple 
sauce. 

No.  2. — Use  1  cup  of  water,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  salt  to  taste;  let  it 
boil  and  stir  in  flour  until  it  is  a  stiff  batter;  the  flour  must  be  stirred 
in  very  gradually,  to  avoid  large  lumps.  Serve  immediately  with 
cream  and  maple  sugar,  or  any  good  sauce. 

GRAHAM  FLOUR  MINUTE  PUDDING Take  i  water   and  | 

milk,  and  when  it  boils  stir  in  graham  flour  the  same  as  if  water 
alone  was  used,  except  that  it  should  be  made  a  little  thicker.  Cook 
about  10  minutes.  Eat  with  sugar  and  cream.  If  you  do  not  happen 
to  have  cream,  jelly  makes  a  nice  sauce.  Children  are  very  fond  of 
this  simple  pudding. 

ORANGE  PUDDING.— Boil  2  cups  milk;  beat  2  eggs  light,  add 
3  tablespoons  sugar,  grate  in  the  yellow  of  1  orange,  pour  in  the  milk 
hot,  and  beat  2  minutes;  set  the  pan  in  a  larger  pan,  filled  with 
water,  and  put  in  the  oven  until  set;  sprinkle  with  sifted  sugar, 
brown  on  top  with  a  hot  shovel,  and  cool.     Eat  with  cream. 

FRUIT  PUDDINGS— Take  as  many  small  pudding  cloths  as 
needed,  spread  boiled  rice  on  each  cloth,  and  then  put  on  a  peeled 
orange,  or  a  pear  or  apple  pared  and  cored,  or  stoned  cherries,  or  ber- 
ries; then  tie  the  cloths,  having  the  fruit  surrounded  by  the  rice; 
boil  till  the  fruit  is  cooked.  Serve  with  sugar  sprinkled  plentifully 
on  top,  and  with  sweetened  cream  or  any  good  sweet  sauce. 

OXFORD  PUDDING — Take  1  cup  rice  1  tablespoon  oatmeal, 
3  tablespoons  sitgar,  1  teaspoon  salt  (level),  1  cup  milk,  6  cups  water; 
stir  together,  and  bake  2  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

PEACH  PUDDING — Drain  the  liquor  from  a  can  of  peaches, 
and  wet  ceraline  with  it,  but  do  not  make  it  too  thick  to  pour,  add  2 
eggs,  well  beaten,  ^  cup  sugar,  and  a  little  salt;  pour  this  mixture 
into  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  drop  the  reserved  peaches  into  the  cen 
ter  of  the  mixture,  and  bake  15  to  25  minutes  Good  hot  or  cold, 
and  without  sauce. 

STEAMED  PEACH  PUDDING.— Fill  a  pudding  dish  with  alter- 
nate layers  of  bread  crumbs  sprinkled  with  butter,  and  sweetened, 
sliced  peaches,  having  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  on  top;  pour  over  this 
a  custard  made  of  2  cups  milk,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  2  tablespoons 
sugar;  steam  it,  and  serve  with  our  Lombard  Sauce. 

POTATO  PUDDING — Take  1  lb.  of  boiled  potatoes  mashed  with 
sweet  milk;  add  ^  lb.  white  sugar,  6  eggs,  and  1  grated  lemon;  bake 
40  minutes. 


332  PUDDINGS 

PLAIN  PLUM  PUDDING. 

2  cups  bread  crumbs.  1  teaspoon  of  spices. 

1  teaspoon  of  salt.  2  cups  seeded  raisins. 

1  cup  chojjped  suet.  1  cup  of  flour. 

2  cups  milk  or  water.  2  cups  washed  currants. 

3  cups  sugar. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  to  make  a  stifp  batter;  if  it  is  too  thick, 
add  more  water,  and  if  too  thin,  add  more  flour;  »then  stir  in  2  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  beat  it  well,  tie  loosely  in  a  pudding  cloth, 
so  that  it  will  have  room  to  swell,  and  boil  4  hours.  It  can  be  placed 
in  a  mold  or  tin  basin,  with  a  plate  to  cover  it,  and  steamed  for  the 
same  length  of  time,  if  more  convenient.  Serve  with  lemon  pudding 
sauce. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 
3  eggs.  i  cup  citron. 

3  cups  flour.  I  teaspoon  spices. 

1  cup  chojDped  suet.  A  little  nutmeg. 

^  cup  candied  lemon.  1  cup  of  raisins. 

.1  cup  molasses.  2  even  teasj)oons  of  cream  of  tartar. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  1  cup  currants. 

1  teasi^oon  of  soda.  1  cuj)  brown  sugar. 

1  teaspoon  salt.  Steam  4  hours. 

PRUNE  PUDDING — Stew,  stone  and  chop  1  cup  of  prunes; 
beat  whites  of  6  eggs,  add  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  beat  well,  mix 
with  the  prunes,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  mold,  in  slow  oven,  about  30 
minutes.  Serve  with  whipped  cream,  mock  whipped  cream  or  thin 
custard. 

No.  2. — Stew  prunes,  stone  them,  stir  into  a  jplain  bread  pudding 
and  bake — see  "  Bread  Pudding." 

PRINCESS  PUDDING.— Scald  4  cups  sweet  milk;  stir  in  i  cup 
of  flour  and  -i  teaspoon  of  salt;  when  cof)l,  stir  in  6  welhbeaten  eggs; 
bake  20  minutes.     Serve  with  butter  and  sugar. 

STEAMED  PUFF. PUDDING.— Make  a  batter  by  sifting  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder  and  a  little  salt  into  2  cups  flour,  and  add  milk 
enough  to  make  it  quite  soft;  butter  coffee=^cups  and  put  them  in  the 
steamer;  drop  in  first  a  spoonful  of  batter,  then  1  of  berries,  steamed 
apples,  or  any  fruit  or  sauce  you  happen  to  have;  then  put  in  batter 
to  fill  the  cup,  and  steam  25  minutes.  Serve  with  our  berry  pud- 
ding^sauce,  using  the  same  fruit  for  the  sauce  that  you  have  in  the 
pudding. 

QUEEN  PUDDING.— Use  1  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  1  quart  of 
milk,  1  teacup  white  sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 
Beat  yolks,  sugar  and  lemon  together,  and  stir  in  the  crumbs;  bake 


PUDDINGS  333 

until  it  is  of  a  nice  brown  color;  when  done,  beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  with  4  tablespoons  of  sugar;  sj^read  fruit  jelly  or  jam 
over  the  pudding,  then  cover  it  with  the  frosting  and  set  it  in  the 
oven  to  brown  slightly.  To  be  served  cold.  No  one  ever  tires  of 
this  delicious,  old=fashioned  dessert. 

RAISIN  PUDDING.— Cream  together  1  cup  sugar  and  ^  cup 
butter;  add  2  well  beaten  eggs,  ^  cup  milk  and  2  cups  flour  into 
which  f  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  has  been  sifted;  mix  all  well, 
and  add  1  cup  seeded  raisins  which  have  been  sprinkled  with  a  little 
flour;  steam  2  hours.  Serve  with  a  good  hot  sauce.  Or  (2)  stir 
chopped  and  seeded  raisins  into  a  common  bread  pudding  and  bake; 
see  "  Bread  Pudding." 

RASPBERRY  PUDDING — Rub  together  1|  cups  sugar,  and  ^ 
cup  butter;  add  ^  cup  milk,  and  2  eggs;  stir  together  well,  and  add  2 
cups  flour  with  -|  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  sifted  in,  and,  lastly, 
add  2  cups  fresh  raspberries.     Steam  3  hours. 

RATAFIA  PUDDING. 

1  quart  of  milk.  4  tablespoons  of  sugar. 

2  eggs.  ^  pound  of  ratafias. 

2  teaspoons  of  corn-starch.  Flavor  with  cinnamon. 

Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  beat  the  sugar,  eggs,  and 
corn=starch  together,  and  stir  into  the  scalding  milk;  when  it  thick- 
ens, pour  it  into  a  well-buttered  pudding=disli;  cover  the  top  of  the 
pudding  with  the  ratafias — right  side  upwards — and  bake  ^  hour. 
(For  directions  for  making  ratafias,  see  our  chapter  on  "  Candy.") 

RHUBARB  PUDDING— Butter  a  basin  which  will  hold  1^ 
pints,  and  line  it  with  good  suet  crust  rolled  out  to  the  thickness  of 
I  inch.  Fill  it  with  rhubarb  which  has  been  stewed  for  ^  hour  with 
a  little  moist  sugar  and  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon.  Cover  the  pudding 
with  pastry,  rolled  out  to  the  same  thickness  as  the  sides,  pinch  the 
edges  securely,  tie  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  2  hours,  or  until  done;  then 
turn  out  carefully,  and  cut  a  small  opening  in  the  top  for  the  escape 
of  the  steam.  Serve  with  sweetened  melted  butter,  or  cream  and 
sifted  sugar. 

RICE  PUDDING — Use  1  pint  milk,  1  tablespoon  washed  rice, 
■^  cup  raisins,  ^  cup  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg.  Mix  and  put  to 
bake;  stir  4  times  to  keep  rice  and  raisins  mixed;  let  it  bake  about  1 
hour,  or  until  the  rice  is  done.     Serve  cold  with  cream  and  sugar. 

A  Hint. — It  is  not  generally  known  that  the  cheap,  broken  rice  is  better  for 
puddings  than  the  more  expensive  article.  One  tablespoon  of  this,  well  washed, 
the  usual  quantity  of  milk  and  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  with  a  little 
butter,  will  make  an  excellent  rice  pudding.     Bake  very  slowly. 


334  PUDDINGS 

Rice  Pudding  No.  2. — Soak  f  cup  rice  in  milk  till  soft,  then  add  4 
cups  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  2  tablespoons  sugar;  x)ut  in  the  oven 
and  bake  very  slowly  for  2  hours;  it  should  be  of  the  consistency  of 
jelly  when  done.  The  secret  of  success  with  this  pudding  is  to  bake 
very  slowly,  and  bake  a  long  time.  A  cup  of  seeded  raisins  is  a  great 
improvement  if  added  when  it  is  put  in  the  oven.  Thick  sweet 
cream  is  the  best  sauce  for  it,  or  sugar  and  cream  mixed. 

Sago  and  Tapicoa  puddings  made  in  the  same  way  are  delicious, 
but  without  any  raisins. 

Rice  Pudding  No.  3. — Use  2  tablespoons  rice,  1  quart  milk,  ^  teacup 
white  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla  or  lemon;  a  little  salt;  scald  the  rice, 
then  add  the  other  ingredients  and  scatter  on  top  a  little  butter  cut  in 
small  bits.  Bake  2  hours  in  a  slow  oven.  Pour  over  it  ^  hour  be- 
fore it  is  done  ^  teacup  cold  milk;  this  will  make  it  creamy. 

ROLY  POLY  PUDDING.— Use  1  cup  chopped  suet,  3  cups 
flour,  1  even  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  1  even  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Mix  the  suet,  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together;  then  wuth  a  lit- 
tle cold  water  make  a  stiff  dough;  roll  out  in  a  long  strip,  and  spread 
it  with  jam,  preserves  or  fruit,  leaving  a  little  space  at  the  edges  free ; 
wet  the  edges  and  roll  up  the  strip.  Dip  a  pudding  cloth  in  hot 
water;  flour  it  well;  put  in  the  pudding,  roll,  tie  up  the  ends  and  wind 
it  with  a  string  to  keep  it  in  place;  boil  2  hours.  Serve  with  sweet 
sauce  with  a  trifle  of  lemon  juice.  The  roly-poly  can  be  baked  in  a 
buttered  pan,  if  preferred,  but  without  the  cloth. 

SPONGE  PUDDING.— Use  1  cup  butter  rubbed  into  3  cups 
flour;  1  teaspoon  soda  stirred  in  1  cup  molasses;  1  cup  sweet  milk;  ^ 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  nutmeg;  1  cup  fruit,  if  liked;  steam 
1^  hours. 

SUET  PUDDING. 
1  cup  of  chopped  suet.  1  egg. 

1  cup  of  seeded  raisins„  1  teaspoon  of  salt. 

1  cup  of  molasses.  1  teaspoon  of  soda. 

1  cup  of  sour  milk.  Steam  2  hours. 

3  cups  of  flour. 

SUET  PUDDING  No.  2, 
1  cup  molasses.  ^  cup  dried  currants. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  2|  cups  flour. 

1  cup  suet,  chopped  fine.  ^  teaspoon  of  soda. 

1  cup  of  raisins. 

Mix  well,  add  salt  and  spice  to  taste,  and  steam  2  hours.  Eat 
with  liquid  sauce.  If  suet  is  objected  to,  or  cannot  be  obtained,  ^ 
cup  of  butter  may  be  used.  Be  sure  the  i^udding  is  thoroughly  done. 
This  is  a  good  pudding  to  follow  a  picked  up  dinner,  or  if  the  supply 
is  a  little  short,  as  it  is  rather  substantial. 


PUDDINGS  335 

8TEAMED  PUDDING. 

1  cup  of  molasses.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

^  cup  butter  (scant).  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  2   teaspoons   of   cinnamon   or  in- 

1  cup  raisins  chopped  fine.  stead  of  this  ^  a  nutmeg. 
Steam  2|  hours.  3  cups  flour. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING.— Soak  1  cup  tapioca  for  2  hours  in  cold 
water  enough  to  cover  it;  if  not  all  absorbed  drain  off  what  is  left; 
add  1  quart  of  milk,  and  soak  2  hours  longer;  when  the  tapioca  is 
quite  soft,  beat  together  2  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  2  table- 
sjpoons  of  sugar.  Add  this  to  the  tapioca  with  the  yolks  of  4  eggs 
beaten  light;  stir  well  and  bake  till  brown  on  top;  then  add  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth  with  pulverized  sugar,  and  re- 
turn to  the  oven  to  brown.  Be  careful  to  see  that  there  are  no  hard 
lumps  left.     Eat  either  with  or  without  sauce. 

Sago  pudding  may  be  made  the  same  way. 

Rice  Pudding  can  be  made  the  same  way,  and  can  be  made  more 
dainty  by  adding  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon  to  the  frosting. 

APPLE  TAPIOCA  PUDDING.— Put  1  cup  tapioca  in  1  quart 
of  cold  water,  and  let  it  soak  slowly  on  the  stove  until  thin  like 
starch;  have  the  apples  peeled  and  quartered  and  in  a  pan  ready  to 
bake;  season  the  soaked  tapioca  with  sugar,  butter  and  nutmeg,  xDour 
it  over  the  apples,  and  bake  till  done. 

COCOANUT  TAPIOCA  PUDDING.— Soak  3  tablespoons  of  tap- 
ioca in  water  over  night;  then  put  it  in  1  quart  of  boiling  milk  and 
boil  I  hour;  beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  3  table- 
spoons prepared  cocoanut,  stir  it  in,  boil  10  minutes  longer,  and  pour 
into  a  pudding  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  4  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
stir  in  3  tablespoons  sugar,  put  this  over  the  top  with  a  little  cocoa- 
nut  sprinkled  over  it,  and  brown  5  minutes  in  the  oven. 

Tapioca  is  the  starch  extracted  from  the  root  of  a  plant  which  grows  in  South 
America.  It  is  light  and  easily  digested,  but  as  it  is  about  83;^  starch  it  is  not  very 
nutritious.  When  used  for  puddings  crushed  tapioca  is  better  than  that  in  large 
granules. 

Cassava  is  the  starch  from  the  same  root  more  highly  granulated.  It  is  called 
Manioc  in  Brazil,  and  Yucca  in  Peru. 

WHOETLEBEKKY  PUDDING. 

2  cups  sugar.  6  eggs. 

2  cups  bread  crumbs.  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  quart  milk.  1  tablespoon  of  salt. 

4  cups  flour. 

Make  to  a  stiff  batter,  and  mix  in  1  quart  of  whortleberries.  Put 
it  in  a  buttered  mold,  and  steam  3  hours.  Half  this  will  do  for  a 
small  family.     Serve  with  any  liquid  pudding  sauce  preferred. 


336  DUMPLINGS 

DUMPLINGS. 

In  putting  dumplings  of  any  kind  into  water  to  boil,  put  them 
in  one  at  a  time,  as  they  will  mix  or  stick  if  put  in  together. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS.— These  may  be  either  baked  or  boiled;  if 
baked,  they  should  be  made  with  pastry;  if  boiled,  use  a  light  suet 
crust.  In  either  case  pare  the  apples  and  scoop  out  the  core,  filling 
up  the  space  with  sugar  and  a  clove,  or  some  grated  lemon  peel. 

For  baked  dumplings  make  a  light  p)uff  paste,  enclose  the  apples 
in  it,  making  as  many  as  desired,  pinch  the  edges  so  closely  that  no 
seam  can  be  seen,  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  good  oven.  Eat  with  a 
rich  pudding  sauce,  or  with  maple  syrup. 

For  boiled  dumplings  choj)  ^  1^-  ^^ef  suet  very  finely,  add  ^  lb. 
flour,  a  little  salt  and  baking  powder,  and  mix  with  water  enough  to 
give  it  consistency;  roll  out  twice  on  the  pastry  board,  enclose  the 
apples  as  for  baked  dumplings,  put  them  in  boiling  water,  and  boil 
fast  1  hour.     Drain,  and  serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

OHEKRY  DUMPLINGS. 

^  cup  sugar.  1  cup  prepared  flour,  or  use  flour 

2  cups  stoned  cherries.  and  baking  powder  same  as  for 

2  heaping  tablespoons  lard.  biscuits. 

2  cups  sweet  milk.  A  little  salt. 

After  rubbing  the  lard  into  the  salted  flour,  add  the  milk,  then 
roll  out  ^  inch  thick.  Cut  into  squares,  and  into  the  middle  of  each 
one  put  2  spoonfuls  of  the  stoned  cherries.  Add  sugar,  and  then 
bring  the  edges  together  and  pinch  closely.  Bake  until  done  on  a 
floured  baking=pan,  with  the  joined  edges  at  the  bottom.  Eat  while 
hot. 

HUCKLEBERRY  DUMPLINGS.— Use  1  tablespoon  lard,  4  cups 
flour,  1  cup  milk,  8  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Sift  the  baking  pow- 
der into  the  flour,  work  in  the  lard,  and  add  the  milk;  when  rolled 
out,  cut  rather  larger  than  biscuit;  after  putting  in  the  berries  close 
the  edges  tightly,  and  boil  (or  steam)  20  minutes. 

JAM  DUMPLINGS — Roll  out  a  puff  paste,  and  spread  jam 
(raspberry  or  any  other)  on  it;  make  into  dumplings -and  boil  till 
done — about  1  hour  usually.  Serve  with  a  sauce  made  of  |  butter  to 
I  sugar,  beaten  to  a  cream. 

STEAMED  DUMPLINGS— Pare  and  quarter  nice  tart  apples, 
place  them  in  a  deep  dish,  adding  a  little  water;  make  a  crust  as  you 
would  for  tea  biscuit,  with  sour  cream,  or  rich  buttermilk,  if  you 
have  it;  if  not,  use  a  good  baking-powder  recipe;  roll  out  about  1 


DUMPLINGS  337 

inch  thick,  place  it  over  the  apples,  and  steam  ^  hour.     Serve  with  a 
sauce  made  of  ^  butter  to  |  sugar,  beaten  to  a  cream. 

Fruit  Dumplings  of  any  kind  can  be  made  in  this  way,  using  any 
kind  of  fruit,  either  fresh  or  canned  instead  of  the  apples. 

PANDOWDY — Pare,  core,  and  slice  thin,  sour,  juicy  apples; 
butter  a  deep  dish  and  put  in  a  layer  of  apples,  sweeten  with 
brown  sugar  and  flavor  with  lemon  peel;  strew  over  it  a  layer  of 
bread  crumbs,  and  bits  of  butter;  repeat  alternately  till  the  dish  is 
full,  finishing  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Bake  till  the  apples  are 
soft.    A  little  cider  improves  it.    To  be  eaten  with  sweetened  cream. 


DOUGHNUTS  AND  FRITTERS. 

%  I  /HE  Fat. — The  fat  for  frying  doughnuts  and  fritters  may  be  any 
\\  '  soft  fat  free  from  rancidity,  which  is  at  hand;  pure  leaf  lard, 
(^  I  te  for  this  purpose,  was  once  considered  indispensable,  but 
soft  suet,  or  the  fat  trimmed  from  the  outside  of  fat  beef,  is 
excellent,  combined  with  lard;  also  clarified  drippings  from  roasted 
meat,  either  beef  or  pork.  A  small  proportion  of  the  hard  kidney 
suet  of  beef  may  be  added,  but  if  hard  suet  is  in  excess  in  frying  fat, 
food  cooked  therein  will  have  a  thick,  tallowy  crust,  which  is  neither 
palatable  nor  digestible.  Cottonseed  oil,  alone,  or  in  combination 
with  a  small  jiroportion  of  beef  suet  is  used  by  some  cooks;  others 
dislike  it.  With  this,  as  with  some  other  food  preparations,  the  taste 
may  perhaps  be  acquired.  Mutton  fat  should  never  be  added  to  the 
frying  kettle,  or  used  in  any  way;  as  stated  elsewhere,  the  strong  odoi 
to  which  many  people  have  a  great  aversion,  is  intensified  by  reheat- 
ing; besides,  it  is  the  hardest  of  animal  fats,  and  cools  too  quickly  on 
food  cooked  in  it.  If  black  specks  adhere  to  the  doughnuts  after 
they  are  fried,  put  a  few  slices  of  raw  potato  in  the  fat,  and  the 
specks  will  adhere  to  the  potato.  If  lard  or  drippings  are  not  per- 
fectly sweet,  before  putting  in  any  dough  put  in  some  slices  of  raw 
potato  and  fry  them;  the  potatoes  will  absorb  the  rank  flavor.  A  few 
slices  of  raw  potatoes  in  the  kettle  while  cooking  doughnuts  will  keep 
the  odor  from  permeating  the  house. 

Potatoes  are  largely  composed  of  starch  and  carbon  and  they  purify  the  fat  in 
much  the  same  way  that  water  is  purified  by  charcoal;  being  very  porous,  and 
possessing  great  powers  of  absorption,  they  take  up  the  gases  and  odors,  thus  puri- 
fying the  fat. 

The  Kettle — A  kettle  should  be  kept  for  the  purpose  of  frying 
doughnuts  and  fritters,  and  one  rounded  at  the  bottom,  broad,  and 
shallow,  is  the  most  convenient  shape. 

Clarifying  Fat — The  frying  fat  must  be  clarified  from  time  to 
time,  as  more  or  less  flour  falls  to  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  whenever 
it  is  used;  the  fat  can  be  poured  while  still  warm — not  hot — into  a 
pan  of  water,  and  the  settlings  scraped  from  the  cake  of  fat  when  it 
is  cold;  a  more  simple  way  is  to  set  the  kettle  away  with  the  fat  in  it 
to  cool,  and  when  next  wanted  for  use  set  on  the  fire  just  long  enough 
to  start  the  cake  of  fat  in  the  kettle;  lift  it  from  the  kettle  with  a 
carving  fork,  and  with  a  knife  cut  the  black  from  the  cake  of  fat, 
wipe  out  the  kettle  with  papers  and  put  them  in  the  fire;  then  return 


DOUGHNUTS,  CKULLERS,  ETC.  339 

the  fat  to  the  kettle  and  add  more  if  needed.  The  dirty  looking  sedi- 
ment is  commonly  thrown  away,  but  it  need  not  be  altogether  wasted; 
when  a  considerable  quantity  has  accumulated  it  may  be  clarified  by 
the  second  method  described  for  clarifying  fats  in  our  article  on  fry- 
ing meats,  etc.  (which  see). 

The  Dough. — Be  careful  in  shortening  all  doughs  to  be  fried  in  fat, 
either  for  doughnuts  or  fritters,  for  if  too  tender  they  will  absorb  the 
frying  fat.  If  shortening  is  used,  eggs  must  be  added  and  the  dough 
made  more  stiff,  to  counteract  the  tendency  to  soak  fat;  little  or  no 
shortening  is  best  for  most  doughs  cooked  in  fat.  The  fat  must  also 
be  hot  enough  for  any  dough  placed  in  it  to  rise  instantly  to  the  sur- 
face of  the  fat;  this  can  be  ascertained  by  trying  it  with  a  small  bit 
of  dough,  before  proceeding  with  a  quantity.  Remember  that  a  fre- 
quent cause  of  trouble  is  not  having  the  fat  hot  enough,  and  we  have 
several  times  alluded  to  this.  Have  it  so  that  it  gives  off  a  blue 
smoke,  as  explained  for  frying  meats  (which  see). 


DOUGHNUTS,  CRULLERS,  ETC. 

In  frying  all  kinds  of  doughnuts  let  them  thoroughly  brown  on 
one  side  before  turning  them;  in  this  way  they  rise  thoroughly,  and 
are  much  lighter  than  if  frequently  turned  while  frying,  but  fry  both 
sides  well  before  taking  them  out.  Do  not  fry  so  many  at  once  as  to 
cause  crowding.  When  done,  take  them  out,  let  them  drain,  and 
when  cool  keep  them  in  an  earthen  crock. 

Fried  cakes  keep  moist  longer  when  made  with  brown  sugar 
than  when  made  with  any  other  kind. 

The  time  required  to  fry  is  3  to  5  minutes. 

DOUGHNUTS.  {Extra  Nice). 
1  cup  sour  cream.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  1  teaspoon  soda  (heaping). 

1  cup  sugar  (heaping).  Flour  to  roll. 

3  eggs. 

Beat  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add  cream,  milk,  salt,  beaten 
whites  and  flour  containing  soda.  Fry  in  smoking  hot  fat.  Excel- 
lent. 

EAISED  DOUGHNUTS. 

1  cup  outter  and  lard  mixed.  1  cup  yeast. 

2  cups  sugar.  3  eggs,  beaten. 
1  cup  warm  water.  Salt  and  spices. 

Rub  the  butter  and  lard  into  a  ({navt  of  sifted  flour,  add  1  even 
tablespoon  uf  sail,  and  spic-es  if  liked;  pul   Ihc  water  in  the  flour, 


340  DOUGHNUTS,  CRULLERS,  ETC. 

then  the  beaten  eggs,  then  the  sugar;  now  mix  all  together,  and  add 

flour  enough  to  mold  into  a  soft  dough;  let  it  rise  over  night,  knead 

down  again  in  the  morning,  let  it  lie  on  the  moldings 

board  until  it  begins  to  rise  again,  then  roll  out  and 

cut  in  rings  or  make  into  twists,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

A  cup  of  washed  and  dried  Zante  currants  are  nice 

in  these  cakes. 


Zdnte  Currants  are  not  really  currants  at  all;  they  are  small 
grapes  grown  in  Zante,  which  is  an  island  near  the  western 
coast  of  Greece.  They  are  cultivated  on  an  immense  plain  u..- 
der  the  shelter  of  the  mountains,  and  when  gathered  and  dried 
in  the  sun  and  air  they  are  stored  in  magazines  until  ready  for 
shipment.  Zante  produces  about  9,000,000  lbs.  of  these  currants  zante  oubbants. 
annually.     Zante  currants  are  rather  indigestible. 

PLAIN  DOUGHNUTS — Use  1  cup  new  milk,  1  level  teaspoon 
of  salt,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  sifted  into  2  cups  of 
flour;  mix  all  together,  and  add  a  little  more  flour  if  needed,  but  the 
cakes  are  better  to  be  made  quite  soft.  Do  not  mold  the  dough  but 
place  it  on  the  molding^board,  flatten  the  dough  down  with  the 
hands  until  it  is  about  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  shape  and  fry  in  hot 
fat.  Powdered  sugar  can  be  dredged  over  them  when  served,  if 
liked. 

OHIO  DOUGHNUTS. — L^se  3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  new  milk, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  flour  enough  to  permit  the  spoon 
to  stand  ux^right  in  the  mixture;  add  2  teasj)oons  baking  powder  and 
beat  until  very  light.  Drop  by  the  dessertspoonful  into  hot  fat. 
They  will  not  absorb  the  fat,  and  are  as  digestible  as  any  doughnuts. 

COFFEE  DOUGHNUTS — Use  one  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon 
of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  soda;  make  the  flour  as 
soft  as  you  can  handle  it;  then  make  into  twists  or  rings,  and  fry  in 
hot  fat.     These  are  not  rich  but  are  nice  in  the  morning  with  coffee. 

CREAM  DOUGHNUTS. — Beat  1  cup  sour  cream,  1  cup  mgar 
and  2  eggs  together;  add  1  teaspoon  soda,  a  little  salt  andr  flour 
enough  to  roll. 

CRULLERS. 

1  cup  butter.  3  eggs. 

2  cups  sugar.  Spice  to  laste. 

2  cups  sour  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Use  flour  to  stiffen;  cut  out  and  fry. 

CAROLINA  CRULLERS. 

Butter  size  of  egg.  3  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar.  Flour  enough  to  roll. 


FKITTERS  B41 

FRIED  CAKES 

1  large  spoon  melted  butter.  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

2  cups  sugar  (scant).  1  saltspoon  cinnamon. 
1  cup  milk.                                          1  teaspoon  salt. 

4  eggs,  medium  sized.  Flour  to  roll. 

FLORIDA  FRIED  CAKES. 

1  tablespoon  shortening.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  teaspoon  salt. 
2  cups  sour  milk.                                Flour  to  roll. 

2  eggs. 

JOLLY  BOYS. 

-|  cup  sugar.  1  cup  flour. 

1  egg.  2  cups  cornmeal  (scalded). 

^  teaspoon  of  salt.  ^  teaspoon  soda. 

Drop    by    tablespoonfuls  into   smoking  hot   fat,   and   fry  like 
doughnuts. 


FRITTERS. 

These  are  composed  of  batters  and  doughs  of  various  kinds, 
usually  enclosing  fruits  or  sweets  of  some  sort,  and  are  fried  in  hot 
fat;  they  are  eaten  hot,  and  some  sweet  sauce  or  sugar  served  with 
them.  They  should  be  quickly  made,  and  thoroughly  beaten.  The 
batter  should  be  smooth  and  thick  enough  to  cling  to  whatever  is 
dipped  into  it  without  running  off,  and  the  fat  should  be  very  hot,  in 
fact,  it  should  smoke.  Probably  more  cooks  fail  on  the  heat  of  the 
fat  than  on  anything  else,  and  yet  it  should  not  be  too  hot.  When  it 
gives  off  a  blue  smoke,  as  we  described  in  our  directions  for  frying 
meats,  etc.,  it  is  right;  or  test  it  by  dropping  in  a  teaspoon  of  the 
batter;  if  the  temperature  is  right,  the  batter  will  quickly  rise  to  the 
surface  in  a  puff  ball,  sputtering  and  dancing,  and  will  speedily 
become  a  light  brown.  When  the  fat  is  right  it  will  not  soak  into 
the  dough,  but  will  make  it  delightfully  crisp,  light,  and  puffy.  In 
the  introduction  to  this  chapter  we  explain  about  the  kinds  of  fat  to 
use.  Take  the  fritters  out  with  a  skimmer,  as  soon  as  they  are  done, 
dislodge  any  fat  which  adheres,  pile  them  in  a  hot  dish,  sift  sugar 
over  them,  and  serve  at  once. 

The  batter  may  be  simply  made,  as  for  griddle  cakes,  and  of 
about  the  same  consistency.  If  it  is  allowed  to  stand  an  hour  or  so 
before  being  used,  the  starch  grains  will  swell  by  contact  with  the 
moisture,  and  hence  it  will  be  lighter.  Eggs  added  to  the  batter 
make  it  crisp  and  delicate,  and  ensure  a  good  coating  over  the  fruit, 


342  FRITTERS 

etc.,  enclosed.  Baking  powder,  or  cream  of  tartar  and  soda,  are 
sometimes  used  when  the  batter  is  wanted  very  light;  when  shorten- 
ing is  used  add  eggs  also,  as  their  albumen  quickly  coagulates  in 
the  hot  fat,  and  forms  a  crust,  or  film,  which  prevents  the  fat  from 
soaking  in.  The  best  batter  is  made  with  the  yolk  of  egg,  and  just 
before  using,  the  white  is  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  added  also. 
Always  add  a  little  salt.  A  little  more  flour  can  be  used,  making  the 
batter  a  little  thicker,  for  fruit  which  is  very  juicy. 

Fritters  are  quickly  made,  and  can  be  served  for  breakfast,  lunch- 
eon, tea,  or  a  dessert  for  dinner,  and  they  are  almost  invariably  rel- 
ished. Hot  caramel  syrup,  or  maple  syrup,  can  be  served  with  them, 
or  the  6imj)le  white  syrup  made  of  granulated  sugar  and  a  little 
water,  while  many  of  the  pudding  sauces  are  also  suitable. 

The  time  needed  to  fry  is  3  to  5  minutes. 

FRITTER  BATTER  (PZam).— Use  2  cups  of  flour  and  2  eggs. 
Beat  the  eggs  and  flour  together,  and  add  enough  sweet  milk  to 
make  a  batter  of  the  consistency  of  griddle  cakes;  then  beat  in  a 
level  teaspoon  of  salt.  This  batter  is  siuqDly  made,  and  cau  be  used 
for  any  kind  of  fritters. 

Batter  No.  2. — Mix  together  ^  cup  water  or  milk,  1  saltspoon  of 
salt,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,. and  the  welhbeaten  yolks  of  2  eggs; 
then  beat  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  good  batter  of  it.  Many  cooks 
use  1  tablespoon  of  olive  oil  instead  of  the  butter,  and  prefer  it. 
Just  before  using  it  beat  in  the  welhbeaten  whites  of  the  2  eggs.  If 
it  is  used  for  meat,  oysters,  or  clams,  2  teaspoons  of  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice  will  be  an  improvement;  if  for  fruit,  add  instead  1  teaspoon  of 
sugar. 

APPLE  FRITTERS — Peel  the  apples,  and  take  out  the  core 
with  a  core=cutter,  cut  the  ajDples  in  thick  slices,  crosswise — this 
makes  a  ring;  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  let  tl^em  lie  for  an  hour; 
then  dip  each  j)iece  in  batter,  and  fry  until  of  a  light  brown  color. 
Sprinkle  again  with  sugar  and  send  to  the  table. 

BANANA  FRITTERS.— Cut  the  bananas  in 
slices  ^  inch  thick,  sprinkle  with  powdered  cinna- 
mon, dip  in  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Serve  with 
syrup. 

BERRY  FRITTERS— Make  a  batter  of  2  eggs 
well  beaten,  add  a  gill  of  cream  and  a  gill  of  milk 
thickened  with  a  tablespoon  of  corn=starch;  season 
with  a  little  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Put  raw  straw- 
berries into  this  batter,  and  fry  them  in  a  pan  of  hot 


FKITTEKS  843 

fat,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,     Disli  them  in  a  pyramid,  and  sift  sugar 
over  and  between  them. 

Raspberries,  Blackberries,  Currants,  and  other  small  fruits  can  be 
made  into  fritters  in  this  manner,  and  are  delicious. 

BREAD  FRITTERS.— Cut  stale  bread  into  slices  |  inch  thick, 
and  then  cut  it  into  small  squares.  Into  2  cups  milk  put  a  piece  of 
cinnamon  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon;  boilit  ^  hour;  dip  the  bits  of 
bread  in  the  milk,  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain,  then  dip  them  in 
beaten  egg,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown  in  smoking  hot  fat.  Sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar,  and  serve.  Or  (2)  dip  thin  slices  of  yeast 
bread  in  the  plain  fritter  batter,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown.  Sprinkle 
on  powdered  sugar,  and  garnish  with  jelly. 

CAKE  FRITTERS. — Cut  rounds,  squares  or  triangles  of  any  kind 
of  dry  cake,  dip  them  in  milk  with  a  little  lemon  juice  added,  then 
flour  them,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

CARROT  FRITTERS — Take  2  boiled  carrots,  beat  them  to  a 
pulp,  add  2  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of  flour,  moisten  them  with  milk  or 
cream,  add  1  teaspoon  sugar,  and  beat  together  thoroughly ;  drop  by 
spoonfuls  into  smoking  hot  fat;  when  done,  squeeze  a  little  orange 
juice  over  them,  and  sprinkle  on  pulverized  sugar. 

CLAM  FRITTERS. — Drain  the  liquor  from  the  clams,  and  make 
a  fritter  batter  with  it;  chop  the  hard  part  of  the  clams,  mix  them  in 
the  batter,  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  smoking  hot  fat. 

CORN  FRITTERS.— Boil  the  corn,  cut  it  from  the  cob,  mix  it  in 
the  fritter  batter,  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  smoking  hot  fat. 

CORNMEAL  FRITTERS — To  the  welhbeaten  yolks  of  4  eggs 
add  3  cups  milk,  2  cups  cornmeal,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt;  mix  all  thoroughly,  and  add  the  well= 
beaten  whites  of  the  4  eggs,  and  -^  cup  flour  in  which  ^  teaspoon 
baking  powder  has  been  sifted;  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  smoking  hot 
fat;  when  done,  drain  on  paper,  to  absorb  the  fat.  Eat  with  a  sauce 
made  of  butter  and  sugar,  seasoned  with  cinnamon. 

CREAM  FRITTERS.— Mix  3  cups  flour  with  2  cups  milk;  stir  in 
6  well^beaten  eggs,  then  2  teaspoons  salt  and  2  cups  cream ;  stir  the 
whole  just  enough  to  intermix  the  cream,  and  fry.  The  addition  of  a 
few  tender  apples,  chopped  fine,  will  improve  them. 

FRUIT  FRITTERS.— Almost  every  kind  of  fruit  wiU  make  frit- 
ters. If  the  fruit  is  cut  up,  sprinkled  with  sugar,  and  allowed  to 
stand  2  or  3  hours  before  being  used,  the  flavor  is  improved;  a  little 


344  FRITTERS 

grated  lemon  peel  can  be  added  also,  if  desired.  Then  drain  the 
fruit,  dip  or  mix  it  in  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Apricots,  peaches, 
pears,  pineapples,  etc.,  make  nice  fritters  in  this  way.  Canned 
fruit  can  also  be  used,  and  makes  nice  fritters. 

JELLY  OR  JAM  FRITTERS.— Make  a  batter  of  2  eggs,  1  cup 
of  milk,  and  flour  enough  to  thicken  to  the  consistency  of  griddle 
cakes;  beat  in  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  drop  in  spoonfuls  in  hot 
fat;  fry  brown.  When  well  drained,  place  on  each  one  a  bit  of  jam 
or  firm  jelly.  (Lemon  jelly  made  with  gelatine  is  nice  for  these 
fritters). 

LEMON  FRITTERS.— The  lemons  must  be  sliced  as  thin  as 
l^aper,  the  seeds  carefully  removed,  and  then  cover  them  with  batter, 
and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Orange  Fritters  can  be  made  the  same  way. 

MEAT  FRITTERS — Take  cold  meat  of  any  kind,  cut  it  into 
small  pieces,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover  with  fritter  batter, 
aiid  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat;  drain  on  brown  paper  and  serve.  A  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  on  the  meat  and  a  little  nutmeg 
grated  on  will  be  an  improvement,  or  the  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  can 
be  added  to  the  fritter  batter.     (Se  our  batter  No.  2.) 

Tripe  makes  good  fritters.     Make  like  other  meat  fritters. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS — Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and  to 

1  cup  of  this  liquor  add  1  cup  milk,  3  beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter;  chop  the  aysters,  add  them  to 
the  batter,  and  drop  by  the  spoonful  into  smoking  hot  fat.  Serve 
immediately  when  done.  Or  (2)  boil  the  oysters  until  the  liquor 
flows;  make  a  batter  with  the  liquor,  dip  in  each  oyster  whole,  and 
fry  in  smoking  hot  fat.  A  little  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  added  either 
to  the  oysters  or  the  batter  will  be  an  improvement. 

PORK  FRITTERS — Dip  thin  slices  of  fat  pork,  or  breakfast  ba- 
con, in  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

POTATO  FRITTERS.— Use  2  cups  mashed  potatoes,  1  egg,  ^ 
teaspoon  salt,  and  3  tablespoons  flour,  into  which  ^  teaspoon  baking 
powder  is  sifted;  make  in  rolls,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 
These  are  a  nice  relish  for  breakfast. 

RAW  POTATO  FRITTERS.— Grate  4  large  raw  potatoes,  add  a 
.little  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  and  make  a  rather  thick  batter  by 
adding  2  beaten  eggs;  drop  in  hot  fat  by  spoonfuls  and  fry  a  light 
brown. 


PRITTEES  345 

RICE  FRITTERS.— To  1  cup  of  boiled  or  steamed  rice  allow  a 
eggs,  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour;  add  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  1  of 
ground  cinnamon;  mix  thoroughly  with  the  hand,  then  drop  by- 
spoonfuls  in  hot  lard;  fry  brown. 

SALSIFY  FRITTERS— Boil  the  salsify,  mash  it,  pick  out  all 
tough  fibres,  and  for  each  2  cups  of  mashed  salsify  work  in  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  and  then  ^  cup  of  milk  and  3  well-beaten  eggs; 
thicken  with  a  little  flour,  make  into  round  cakes,  dredge  with  flour 
and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat;  or  the  batter  may  be  fried  like  griddle 
cakes. 

VEGETABLE  FRITTERS — Boil  the  vegetables  until  tender, 
and  either  cut  in  slices,  dip  them  in  the  fritter  batter  and  fry,  or 
chojp  fine,  mix  the  pieces  into  fritter  batter,  and  drop  it  by  spoonfuls 
into  smoking  hot  fat  and  fry  a  delicate  brown.  Celery,  parsnips,  and 
other  vegetables  can  be  used. 

VARIOUS  FRITTERS. — An  ingenious  cook  can  easily  devise  va- 
rieties by  using  different  flavors.  Use  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  for 
meat,  oyster  or  clam  fritters,  and  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  orange  juice, 
jellies,  etc.,  in  various  combinations,  and  also  vary  the  sauces  used. 
As  almost  any  meat,  fruit  or  vegetables  can  be  used  for  fritters,  the 
varieties  that  can  be  produced  are  almost  endless. 

CANNELONS. — These  are  made  of  puff  paste  rolled  very  thin, 
and  cut  in  pieces  about  2  inches  wide  and  6  inches  long;  place  upon 
each  piece  a  spoonful  of  jam,  wet  the  edges  with  the  white  of  egg, 
and  fold  the  paste  over  twice  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  jam  while 
frying;  slightly  press  the  edges  of  the  cannelons,  and  fry  in  smoking 
hot  fat  until  a  nice  brown.  Lay  them  on  blotting  paper  to  absorb  su- 
perfluous fat,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  before  serving.  Cannelons 
can  be  made  with  any  kind  of  fresh  fruit,  and  are  delicious. 


CAKE. 

For  Cooking  in  High  Altitudes,  see  page  358* 

\  I  /HE  4  corner-stones  of  cake  making  are  flour,  sugar,  buttei 
W  [  and  eggs.  By  combining  these  in  varying  proportions  and 
Q^^te  using  a  few  minor  accessories,  an  endless  variety  of  attrac- 
tive and  delicious  cakes  are  obtained. 

In  measuring  for  cake  the  cups,  if  more  than  1  is  used,  must  be  of 
exactly  the  same  size,  for  the  cook  must  remember  that  success  is 
more  apt  to  follow  accuracy  of  measurement.  Make  the  fire  the  first 
thing,  and  while  the  oven  is  heating,  measure  and  place  on  the  cook- 
ing table  all  the  materials  for  the  cake,  and  have  at  hand  all  the 
implements  (forks,  spoons,  cup,  beaters,)  which  will  be  required  in 
making  it. 

Materials  for  cake. — These  should  always  be  of  the  best  quality, 
as  cake  is  a  luxury,  and  if  served  at  all  should  be  made  of  the  best 
ingredients.  Have  everything  perfectly  dry,  as  dampness  in  the 
materials  is  almost  certain  to  produce  heaviness  in  the  cake.  It 
is  best  to  have  each  ingredient  prox3erly  prepared  before  beginning 
to  mix  the  cake,  and  in  cold  weather  warm  them  to  a  uniform  tem- 
perature and  they  will  mix  better.  While  all  the  materials  should 
be  good,  however,  many  cooks  are  needlessly  extravagant  in  their 
use  of  butter  and  eggs,  and  we  commend  to  our  readers  the  econom- 
ical recipes  which  we  have  gathered  together  in  this,  as  in  other  de- 
partments of  the  book. 

Butter  used  in  cake  making  should  be  free  from  rancidity.  In 
cold  weather  let  it  stand  near  the  stove  to  soften,  but  most  cake  mak- 
ers agree  that  it  should  not  melt.  It  must  be  worked  and  beaten 
with  the  sugar  until  it  is  thoroughly  creamed.  Many  cooks  use 
moderately  salted  butter  without  washing,  as  the  small  amount  of 
salt  which  it  contains  adds  to  the  flavor  of  the  cake,  but  if  it  is  ex- 
cessively salted  the  washing  process  is  indispensable.  To  wash 
butter  it  must  be  thoroughly  worked  with  the  hands  in  a  deep  pan 
or  pail  of  water  until  it  is  soft  and  pasty,  changing  the  water  once 
or  twice  if  needed.  In  cold  weather  the  water  may  be  slightly 
warmed,  but  in  summer  it  should  be  cold. 

Sugar  should  always  be  dry  and  well  powdered.  For  delicate 
cakes,  pulverized  or  the  finest  grades  of  granulated  sugar  should  be 
used.  Some  kinds  of  fruit  cake  have  a  fine  flavor  imparted  by  using 
a  good  quality  of  unrefined  brown  sugar,  and  brown  sugar  is  suita- 


CAKE  347 

ble  for  most  dark  cakes.  Cake  is  made  heavy  by  using  very  coarse 
granulated  sugar.  Lumpy  sugar  should  always  be  crushed  and 
sifted. 

For  many  of  the  finer  cakes  cofPee  "A"  sugar  produces  better  re- 
sults than  any  other  kind. 

Molasses  for  cooking  should  be  the  rich,  dark  New  Orleans  or 
West  India  molasses.  Light  colored  syrups  are  sometimes  made  of 
glucose  and  are  inferior,  being  less  sweet  than  that  drained  from 
crude  sugar,  these  grades  being  the  viscid,  brown  liquid  which  drains 
from  sugar  during  its  formation.  In  baking  cakes  remember  that 
those  containing  molasses  burn  quicker  than  others. 

Flour. — Pastry  Flour  (that  is  "  old  process"  or  St.  Louis  flour)  is 
much  the  best  for  all  kinds  of  cake.  It  contains  more  starch  and  less 
gluten  than  the  new  process  flour.  A  trifle  less  flour  (about  ^  less) 
must  be  used  if  it  is  new  process.  Be  sure  the  flour  is  dry;  sift  it  be- 
fore using,  and  if  it  is  cold,  warm  it  slightly.  Measure  it  after  be- 
ing sifted.  The  baking  powder  or  cream  of  tartar  should  be  sifted 
into  it. 

Eggs  will  beat  more  quickly  in  cold  weather  if  they  are  placed  for 
a  short  time  in  warm  water  before  breaking  them.  In  summer  put 
them  in  cold  water  for  a  short  time.  Break  each  egg  separately  into 
a  cup  to  make  sure  that  it  is  not  stale;  not  only  look  to  see  if  it  is 
good  but  test  it  also  by  smelling.  An  egg  that  is  the  least  tainted 
will  spoil  the  cake  or  anything  else  in  which  it  is  used.  The  quick- 
est way  to  separate  the  yolk  and  the  white  is  to  carefully  break  them 
into  a  plate  and  then  lift  out  the  yolk  with  the  fingers,  allowing  the 
white  to  fall  between  them.  If  even  the  smallest  amount  of  yolk 
gets  mixed  into  the  whites  they  will  not  froth.  Beat  eggs  in  an 
earthen  dish.  The  whites  and  yolks  are  best  beaten  separately  as  it 
takes  longer  to  beat  the  whites.  When  beaten  separately,  if  the  cook 
has  no  assistant,  the  yolks  should  be  beaten  first  and  until  they  are  a 
light  lemon  color,  and  strain  them  if  the  cake  is  fine;  then  beat  the 
whites  until  they  are  too  stiff  to  fall  out  of  an  inverted  dish.  If  the 
whites  become  liquid  again  they  cannot  afterwards  be  made  light,  so 
do  not  stop  beating  till  they  are  light  and  stiff.  The  eggs  should  be 
put  in  a  cool  place  till  wanted  to  use.  When  only  the  whites  are 
used,  the  yolks,  if  unbroken  and  kept  covered,  will  keep  2  or  3  days, 
but  it  is  better  to  use  them  at  once,  working  them  into  custards,  etc. 
The  whites  of  eggs  will  beat  quicker  if  a  pinch  of  salt  is  added,  and 
they  also  beat  more  easily  in  a  cool  place  or  in  a  draught.  If  both 
yolks  and  whites  are  strained  through  a  sieve  before  beating  them 
they  will  beat  smoother  and  easier. 


U8  CAKE 

The  object  in  beating  eggs  is  to  force  in  air.  The  more  and  quicker  they  are 
beaten  the  better,  up  to  the  point  where  the  albumen  forms  a  thin  film  around  all 
the  air  bubbles  it  will  hold — millions  of  them.  More  beating  after  that  only  serves 
to  break  the  film  and  let  the  air  escape,  and  then  the  c<rgs  will  faU.  If  allowed  to 
stand  after  being  beaten,  their  own  weight  will  break  the  thin  films,  the  air  will  es- 
cape, and  they  will  fall.  Because  of  the  oil  contained  in  yolks  they  will,  if  added 
to  beaten  whites,  cause  the  films  to  break,  and  so  let  out  the  air.  This  is  the  prin- 
ciple involved. 

Milk  when  called  for  in  our  recipes,  always  means  sweet  milk,  un- 
less otherwise  specified.  Some  cooks  use  water  instead  of  milk  in 
even  the  best  cakes,  and  water  can  be  substituted  without  detriment, 
so  that  if  you  wish  to  make  a  cake  calling  for  milk,  and  you  are  out 
of  it,  you  can  still  make  the  cake  and  use  water  instead. 

A  hint. — For  cakes,  jpuddings,  bread,  etc.,  skimmed  milk  an- 
swers as  well  as  rich  milk,  and  the  cream  can  be  saved  and  used  for 
coffee,  desserts,  etc. 

Spices  for  cake  should  be  of  the  best  quality. 
Cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice,  and  pepper  are 
much  nicer  if  bought  in  bulk,  and  freshly 
ground  at  home,  when  needed. 

Cinnamon. — This  is  the  inner  bark  of  a  tree,  a  spe- 
cies of  the  laurel  family  which  grows  to  the  height  of  20 
or  30  feet,  and  is  found  ii.  Ceylon,  Java,  etc.  "  Clove 
OiV  is  distilled  from  the  leaf.  Cinnamon  contains  a  fra- 
grant essential  oil.  It  is  best  to  br.y  it  in  the  stick 
or  roll;  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  and  sift  it  fine  for  use.  cinnamon. 

Fruit  is  best  prepared  the  day  before.  It  should  be  dry  when 
used.  Leave  out  a  little  flour  for  the  purpose  and  roll  the  fruit  in  it 
just  before  putting  it  in  the  cake.  With  raised  cake  spread  fruit 
lightly  on  top,  pressing  it  in  a  little,  but  do  not  beat  it  in  or  it  will 
sink  to  the  bottom. 

Almonds  should  be  blanched  by  being  put  into  boiling  water; 
leave  a  few  minutes  and  then  rub  off  the  skin;  then  throw  into  cold 
water  to  preserve  their  color.  If  they  are  pounded,  a  little  white  of 
egg  or  water  should  be  added  every  2  or  3  minutes  to  prevent  their 
oiling.  Or  cut  them  up  and  roll  with  a  rolling  pin  on  a  table  or 
marble  slab,  spreading  a  little  sugar  on  first.  If  not  pounded  or 
rolled  they  should  be  cut  into  thin  slices  or  divided  lengthwise.  To 
shred  almonds,  cut  them  with  a  sharp  knife  into  fine  strips  length- 
wise, 

Citron  should  be  sliced  very  thin,  and  the  pieces  should  not  be 
too  large. 

A  Cocoanut  should  have  the  milk  drawn  out  through  a  hole  cut  in 
the  end;  crack  it  and  take  i\\e  meat  out  (having  previously  loosened 


CAKE  349 

it  by  pounding  it  all  over)  and  dry  for  a  few  hours  in  a  cool  open  ov- 
en; then  grate  and  use.  If  any  is  left  it  can  be  kept  for  several 
weeks,  if  necessary,  by  sprinkling  it  with  sugar  and  keeping  it  in  a 
cool,  dry,  airy  place. 

Currants  should  be  washed  in  warm  water,  changing  it  2  or  3 
times,  and  rubbing  them  well  with  the  hand.  Then  drain  them, 
spread  out  on  a  cloth,  and  pick  out  all  bad  ones,  sticks,  grit,  etc., 
and  dry  them  in  the  sun;  an  oven  unless  very  slow  will  harden  them. 
It  is  well  to  prepare  several  pounds  at  a  time,  and  keep  them  in  glass 
jars  English  currants  are  ax3t  to  be  "gritty;"  they  may  be  made  to 
'■plump,"  or  fill  out,  by  pouring  boiling  water  over  them,  after  which 
dry  them.  Currants  are  neither  so  wholesome  nor  nutritious  as  rai- 
sins. 

Dates  aro  prepared  by  separating  them  from  each  other;  then  put 
them  into  lukewarm  water,  shake  them  about  for  2  or  8  minutes,  and 
drain.  Now  take  out  the  stones;  this  can  be  done  with  the  fingers  as 
a  rule,  but  if  they  are  very  hard  use  a  sharp  knife.  Then  rinse  them 
very  carefully  again,  and  drain  them  very  thoroughly. 

Raisins  can  be  stoned  more  easily  if  boiling  water  is  poured  over 
them  and  left  on  5  or  6  minutes,  as  that  loosens  the  seeds.  Pick  out 
stems  and  defective  raisins.  For  light  fruit  cake  they  may  be  chop- 
ped, but  not  too  fine.  Have  them  perfectly  dry  when  used,  and 
dredge  flour  over  them. 

Baking  powder,  Cream  of  Tartar  and  Soda. — Cake  should  not 
be  made  overflight  with  baking  powder.  A  less  quantity  is  needed, 
in  proxjortion  to  the  flour,  than  for  biscuits,  which  are  made  light  and 
comparatively  dry,  as  they  are  to  be  eaten  soon  after  being  made,  but 
cake  is  made  to  keep  for  some  time — a  week  or  longer.  It  should  of 
course  be  light,  hut  fine-grained  and  moist.  The  rule  for  biscuits  is 
about  3  rounded  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  to  a  quart  of  flour;  for 
that  amount  of  flour  in  cake,  made  with  eggs  properly  beaten,  1  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder  is  sufficient.  The  baking  powder  or  cream 
of  tartar  should  be  well  sifted  into  the  flour  before  mixing  that  into 
either  cake,  biscuits,  or  bread.  Dissolve  the  soda  into  a  little  milk 
or  water. 

Cream  of  tartar  and  soda  can  be  used  instead  of  baking  powder 
in  any  recipe,  or  vice  versa,  but  as  all  baking  powder  contains  some 
starch  or  flour  to  keep  it  dry  (see  our  recipe  for  making  it)  it  is  not 
quite  as  strong  as  the  pure  cream  of  tartar  and  soda,  so  that  about  -^ 
moi'c  baking  powder  is  required  than  of  the  cream  of  tartar  and  soda 
combined.  The  usual  i^roportion  for  1  quart  of  flour  for  bread  or 
biscuit  is  1  teaspoon  soda  and  2  teaspoons   cream   of   tartar;   or   3 


350  CAKE 

rounded  teaspoons  baking  powder;  and  a  convenient  rule  is  1  level 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder  to  1  cup  flour,  but  cake,  when  lightened 
with  eggs,  requires  less  than  -|  of  this. 

In  making  rich  fruit  cakes  eggs  alone  are  used,  without  any  bait- 
ing powder,  or  cream  of  tartar  and  soda,  to  make  them  light. 

The  2  alkalies  used  in  cooking  are  soda  and  potash  or  their  derivatives.  Pot- 
ash is  found  in  all  fertile  soils,  and  is  essential  to  jjlants,  and  all  land  plants  when 
burned  yield  potash.  When  calcined  and  purified  it  yields  pearlash.  Salerahis  is 
a  kind  of  pearlash  derived  by  subjecting  it  to  the  action  of  carbonic  acid  gas. 
The  potash  compounds  are  now  little  used. 

Soda  is  obtained  from  sea*salt  or  marine  plants.  It  is  called  sal'noda  when 
unpurified.  It  is  combined  with  1  part  of  carbonic  acid  to  form  the  carbonate, 
and  2  parts  of  carbonic  acid  to  form  the  bicarbonate  of  soda,  or  the  baking  soda 
ordinarily  used.  Soda  should  ahvays  be  thoroughly  pulverized  before  it  is  meas- 
ured so  that  there  are  no  lumps  in  it.  Strong  alkalies  are  powerful  poisons  and 
must  be  counteracted  or  rendered  inert  before  entering  the  system.  This  is  done 
by  the  acids  used.  The  too  free  use  of  soda  or  saleratus  in  cooking  is  injurious  to 
the  health  and  is  recognized  and  commented  on  by  good  medical  authorities. 
The  alkali  particularly  affects  the  coatings  of  the  stomach  and  bowels  and  causes 
indigestion  and  bowel  complaint,  sometimes  ending  in  acute  inflammation. 
Children  are  often  injured  by  it.  Bicarbonate  of  soda  contains  twice  as  much 
carbonic  acid  as  common  washing  soda,  but  if  it  is  dissolved  in  hot  water,  or 
heated  in  any  way,  this  extra  gas  is  driven  off,  and  it  is  at  once  reduced  to  the 
level  of  common  washing  soda.  For  this  reason  soda  should  never  be  dissolved  in 
hot  water;  tejjid  water  may  be  used,  but  cold  water  or  milk  is  best.  It  will  dis- 
solve as  thoroughly  in  cold  as  in  hot  water,  although  not  as  quickly;  or  it  can  be 
thoroughly  mixed  and  sifted  into  part  of  tlie  Hour,  and  will  then  be  incorporated 
so  as  to  leave  no  yellow  spots.  If  used  in  n^olasses,  dissolve  it  in  as  little  water  as 
possible,  beat  it  into  the  molasses  till  it  foams,  and  then  add  to  the  other  materials 
at  once. 

Cream  cf  Tartar  is  an  acid  obtained  from  crude  tartar,  or  argol,  a  substance 
deposited  on  the  sides  of  casks  during  the  fermentation  of  wine.  It  is  purified 
by  using  charcoal  and  clay,  and  crystalized.  When  cream  of  tartar  unites  with  the 
Ibicarbonate  of  soda,  carbonic  acid  gas  is  liberated,  and  the  minute  bubbles  per- 
meate the  mass  of  dough  and  make  it  ritse,  while  the  residue  forms  a  salt  known  as 
Rochelle  salt.  This  is  a  well=known  cathartic,  but  is  not  harmful  in  the  small 
quantities  thus  formed.  The  acid  and  the  alkali  should,  however,  be  so  propor- 
tioned as  to  neutralize  each  other.  They  then  form  what  is  known  as  a  neutral 
salt.  If  the  acid  is  in  excess  the  salt  will  be  acid,  and  if  the  alkali  is  in  excess  it 
will  be  alkaline.  Experiment  shows  that  1  level  teaspoon  of  soda  is  neutralized 
by  2  full  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar — that  is,  by  a  little  more  than  2  parts  of 
cream  of  tartar  to  1  part  of  soda;  and  these  are  the  proportions  in  which  they 
should  be  used. 

Muriatic  acid  is  sometimes  used  instead  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  when  acted  on 
by  soda  it  leaves  a  residue  of  common  salt,  which  is  unobjectionable.  It  acts  so 
quickly,  however,  that  it  is  not  adapted  to  domestic  use,  as  much  of  the  gas  will 
escape  before  it  performs  any  work,  but  it  is  sometimes  used  in  bakeries. 

When  sour  milk  is  used,  the  lactic  acid  it  contains  acts  on  the  soda  the  same  as 
ttie  acid  cream  of  tartar,  and  so  liberates  gas.     Tlie  proportion  to  use  is  1  teaspoon 


CAKE  351 

of  soda  to  1  pint  of  sour  milk,  or  y^  teaspoon  to  a  cup,  but  it  should  be  remem- 
bered that  very  sour  milk  contains  more  acid  than  that  which  is  just  turning,  so 
that  some  judgment  is  needed  in  guaging  the  proportions.  In  recipes  where 
molasses  is  used,  milk  which  tastes  or  smells  sour,  hut  is  not  thick,  can  be  used  as 
sweet  milk. 

Molasses  furnishes  another  acid  which  answers  the  same  purpose  as  that  of  the 
sour  milk  and  cream  of  tartar,  acting  on  the  alkaline  soda  and  liberating  carbonic 
acid  gas. 

HOW  TO  MIX  CAKE — Probably,  as  many  cakes  are  wasted 
through  imiDroper  mixing,  as  by  any  other  cause,  unless  it  is  insuffi- 
cient beating.  In  mixing  cakes  in  which  butter  is  used  proceed  in 
the  following  order: 

1.  Cream  the  butter.  If  it  is  very  cold,  warm  without  melting 
it.     (For  the  method  of  creaming  butter,  see  ''  Puddings.") 

2.  Add  the  sugar  and  beat  it  thoroughly.  If  a  very  large 
amount  is  used,  part  may  be  beaten  into  the  eggs. 

3.  Add  the  seasoning — spices,  lemon^juice,  flavoring  extracts, 
etc.,  as  given  in  each  recipe,  and  incorporate  them  well  with  the  but- 
ter and  sugar. 

4.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  and  beat  all  well  together. 
6.     Add  the  milk. 

6.  Add  the  flour,  which  should  be  already  thoroughly  mixed 
with  the  baking  powder.  Stir  it  in,  a  little  at  a  time,  or  add  a  little 
flour  and  milk  alternately,  stirring  continually,  and  now  heat  long 
and  vigorously  to  fill  it  with  air  and  make  the  cake  smooth  and 
fine-grained. 

7.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 

8.  Add  the  fruit,  if  used,  which  should  be  already  dusted  with 
Qour.  Make  fruit  cakes  a  little  stiffer  with  flour  than  those  without 
Eruit, 

Sift  baking  powder  and  cream  of  tartar  into  the  flour.  Usually 
the  soda  is  dissolved  in  the  milk  or  water,  but  sometimes  it  is  sifted 
into  the  flour. 

Beat  continuously,  from  beginning  to  end  of  the  process.  Place 
the  dough  in  the  prepared  cake4ins  and  send  to  the  oven  as  soon  as 
possible,  when  finished,  so  that  the  air  which  has  been  beaten  in 
(and  which,  by  exx^anding,  makes  it  light)  may  not  escape. 

Always  work  cake  together  with  a  spoon,  if  possible,  but  when  a 
large  quantity  of  fruit  cake  is  made,  it  is  necessary  to  use  the  hand 
in  order  to  mix  it  properly. 

For  sponge  cakes  (which  are  those  made  without  butter  or  short- 
ening) proceed  as  follows:  (1)  Beat  the  yolks.  (2)  Gradually  add 
the  sugar  and  beat  well.     (3)  Add  the  flavoring  and  water,  if  used 


B52  CAKE 

(4)  Add  the  well=beateii  whites  of  eggs.  (5)  Sift  in  the  flour  and 
carefully  fold  it  in.  After  adding  the  flour,  sponge  cakes,  unlike 
other  cakes,  should  not  be  beaten.  If  beaten  like  other  cake,  after 
adding  the  flour,  sponge  cake  will  be  tough  and  unwholesome,  but  if 
after  folding  in  the  flour,  the  cake  is  put  directly  into  the  oven  it  will 
be  tender  and  digestible.  The  lightness  depends  on  the  quantity  of 
air  beaten  into  the  egg.  Less  beating  is  required  when  soda  and 
cream  of  tartar  are  used,  but  the  cake  is  not  as  good. 

Always  use  an  earthen  bowl  or  pan,  for  mixing  cake.  Butter 
and  sugar,  if  worked  to  a  cream  in  tin,  is  apt  to  be  discolored.  Beat 
the  eggs  with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon.  As  a  rule  (in  cold  weather, 
always),  pour  hot  water  into  the  mixing^bowl  to  warm  it;  then  wipe 
dry.  This  facilitates  the  blending  of  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  is  the 
first  operation. 

If  a  large  quantity  of  cake  is  to  be  made,  the  cook  should  have 
an  assistant;  for  a  small  quantity,  and  if  the  cook  is  alone,  every- 
thing in  the  way  of  ingredients  or  utensils  should  be  ready  at  hand 
on  the  cooking  table,  so  that  there  will  be  no  delay.  Much  depends 
on  mixing  the  cake  rapidly,  and  immediately  placing  it  in  the  oven. 
Those  who  will  bear  the  above  rules  in  mind  can  handle  any  cake,  so 
far  as  the  mixing  is  concerned. 

Beating  and  Stirring. — There  is  a  good  deal  of  difference  between 
beating  and  stirring.  Stirring  merely  mixes  the  different  ingredi- 
ents together,  while  beating  carries  in  "air  and  thoroughly  distributes 
it  through  the  mass,  and  in  baking,  this  air  expands  and  makes  the 
cake  light.  Unless  the  air  is  well  beaten  into  the  dough,  no  after 
attention  will  mdke  it  light  and  wholesome.  After  putting  in  the 
beaten  white  of  egg,  too  much  subsequent  beating  will  let  the  air 
escape  and  so  be  a  detriment.  It  is  heating,  not  stirring,  which  is 
needed  throughout  the  process. 

Cake  Baked  in  Paper. — If  there  is  danger  that  cake  will  rise  above 
the  top  of  a  pan  and  run  out,  or  if  you 
have  a  large  cake  and  the  pan  is  too 
small  to  hold  it,  the  cake  can  be  baked 
in  paper  as  shown  in  the  accompanying 
engraving.  Make  the  paper  case  out  of 
thick  glazed  paper,  coat  it  thickly  with 
butter,  put  in  the  cake,  and  the  paper 
will  not  burn  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Cake  Pans — Layer  cakes  are  baked 
in  thin  cakes  in  tins  made  for  the  pur- 
pose, sometimes  called  jelly=cake  tins. 
Loaf  cakes  are  baked  in  deep  bread  tins, 


CAKE  353 

or  hoops  and  large  pans  made  for  the  purpose.  Flat  loaves  are  usu- 
ally baked  in  the  old-fashioned  brick  shaped  tins  and  are  1  or  2 
inches  in  thickness. 

The  cake  pans  (with  a  few  exceptions  found  among  the  recipes) 
should  be  well  buttered,  and  clean,  thick  manilla  or  heavy  writing 
paper  fitted  to  the  bottoms  of  the  pans,  and  for  rich  fruit  or  wedding 
cakes  which  require  baking  for  hours,  3  or  4  thicknesses  will  be  a 
safe^guard  against  burning  the  bottoms  of  the  cakes.  Butter  well 
the  top  sheet  next  the  cake.  It  is  not  necessary  to  line  the  sides  and 
ends  of  the  pans  if  they  are  well  buttered;  a  knife  slipped  around  the 
cake  will  easily  detach  it. 

In  baking  layer  cakes  the  pans  are  not  usually  papered  to  pre- 
vent them  from  sticking,  but  when  paper  is  not  used  butter  the  pans 
well,  throw  in  a  handful  of  flour  and  shake  it  .well  over  the  inside  of 
the  pan;  then  droj)  it,  bottom  side  upward,  to  remove  all  the  flour 
which  does  not  adhere  to  the  butter.  If  layer  cakes  do  not  easily 
remove  from  the  pans,  leave  them  for  a  few  moments  bottom  side 
upwards,  turned  on  a  cloth,  and  the  steam  from  the  cakes  will  soon 
cause  them  to  drop.  If  buttered  paper  is  used  put  it  in  buttered 
side  up,  and  let  it  overlap  the  sides  about  1  inch  to  assist  in  lifting 
out  the  cake. 

If  a  cake  pan  with  a  tube  in  the  center  is  used  the  cake  will 
bake  more  evenly.  Many  substitutes  are  devised  by  those  who  are 
without  such  pans,  such  as  a  lamp-chimney,  glass  bottle  or  paper 
tube.  They  should  be  greased,  and  placed  in  the  center  of  the  pan 
before  the  batter  is  poured  in.  Something  weighted  down  is  best, 
like  a  tumbler  or  bottle  filled  with  sand. 

The  Oven  and  Baking. — While  cake  is  being  made  there  should  be 
no  other  cooking  done  on  the  stove,  for  as  success  depends  very 
much  on  the  baking,  the  cake  maker  should  constantly  watch  and 
have  absolute  control  of  the  fire.  Make  the  fire  the  first  thing, 
and  while  the  oven  is  heating  mix  and  prepare  the  cakes. 

In  the  absence  of  a  thermometer,  a  few  rules  are  here  given  for 
testing  the  heat  of  the  oven,  but  as  every  stove  or  range  bakes  a 
little  differently  from  others,  the  cook  must  learn  by  practice  the 
proper  heat  required  for  different  kinds  of  cake  (1)  Put  white 
writing  pai3er  in  the  oven,  and  if  it  turns  to  a  dark  yellow  color 
— not  brown — in  five  minutes,  the  oven  is  of  the  right  temperature 
for  most  cakes.  (2)  Place  a  little  flour  on  a  tin  plate,  and  set  it  in 
the  oven;  if  it  turns  a  dark  yellow  in  5  minutes  the  heat  is  right, 
(3)  Hold  the  hand  in  the  oven  and  count  12.  If  you  cannot  do  this 
the  oven  is  too  hot.  23 


354  CAKE 

Small  cakes  require  a  quick  oven  when  they  are  first  put  in,  to 
make  them  rise,  but  the  heat  should  not  be  increased  after  they  have 
begun  to  bake.  Large  cakes  should  be  put  into  a  more  moderate 
oven,  in  order  that  they  may  be  well  done  in  the  middle  before 
they  are  over==done  on  the  outside. 

Cake  will  not  be  light  if  the  oven  is  too  cold  at  first,  or  if  it  is 
too  hot  and  bakes  the  cake  too  quickly.  The  oven  is  too  hot  if  it 
browns  the  cake  before  it  rises.  Cake  should  first  rise  at  the  edge, 
the  middle  should  come  up,  crack  a  little,  then  settle  back  and  the 
cracks  close.  Too  much  flour  has  been  used  if  it  rises  in  the  cen- 
ter the  most,  cracks,  and  remains  up.  Most  loaf  cakes  require  an 
oven  about  the  same  as  bread,  but  layer  cakes  are  best  baked  quickly 
and  need  a  brisk  fire. 

For  all  cake  the  temperature  should  be  even.  For  this  reason 
avoid  stirring  the  fire  or  crowding  on  heat  during  the  process 
of  baking,  and  if  the  fire  is  replenished  add  a  little  fuel  at  a  time  to 
keep  the  heat  uniform.  If  the  oven  is  too  hot,  slip  one  of  the 
stove  lids  partially  ofP  for  a  little  while,  thus  checking  the  draft. 

If  the  oven  bakes  too  rapidly  on  the  bottom,  an  inverted  drip- 
ping-pan may  be  placed  in  it,  or  if  required,  the  bottom  of  the 
oven  can  be  covered  with  hard=baked  bricks.  If  it  bakes  too 
rapidly  at  the  top,  placing  a  thin  hard^wood  board,  or  a  thick  piece 
of  paste^board  on  the  top  grate,  over  the  cakes,  is  much  better  than 
covering  the  cakes  with  paper,  which  is  likely  to  interfere  with  the 
crust  as  the  cake  rises.  Open  the  oven  as  little  as  possible,  and 
do  not  let  a  draft  of  cold  air  strike  the  cakes  or  they  will  fall,  and 
do  not  move  them  till  they  "  set "  or  brown  a  little  on  top. 

Thin  cakes  (flat  loaves)  may  be  turned  in  the  oven,  if  neces- 
sary, after  baking  10  minutes;  thick  loaves  of  rich  cake  should  not 
be  moved  in  less  than  20  or  30  minutes,  and  then  the  turning  should 
be  very  gently  done  or  they  may  be  heavy  in  the  center.  The  old 
"  test "  for  cake  was  to  insert  a  piece  of  clean  broom=straw  or  a  fine 
knitting-needle  free  from  rust,  and  if  the  cake  was  done  it  would 
come  out  free  from  dough;  another  test  is  to  hold  the  cake  to  the 
ear  and  listen  closely;  if  done  it  will  be  silent;  if  there  is  the  least 
noise  return  it  at  once  to  the  oven.  Another  sign  is  its  settling  down 
a  little  and  shrinking  from  the  pan. 

Fruit  Cake — It  is  better  to  steam  fruit  cake  3  hours  and  then 
transfer  it  quickly  to  a  well  heated  oven  and  bake  1  hour,  than  to 
rely  on  baking  alone.  It  is  also  a  good  plan  to  allow  fruit  cakes  to 
stay  in  the  oven  until  the  fire  dies  down,  after  they  are  baked,  plan- 
ning to  bake  them  the  latter  part  of  the  day,  and  leaving  until  even- 
ing. 


CAKE  355 

Gingerbread — Mix  soft  gingerbreads  as  soft  as  they  can  be  han- 
dled, and  keep  the  molding-board  well  floured  to  prevent  the  dough 
from  sticking.  Use  New  Orleans  molasses  as  we  explained  for  other 
cake.  Watch  the  oven  closely,  as  molasses  cakes  burn  more  easily 
than  others.  If,  before  rolling  out  the  dough,  it  gets  too  stifP,  set  it 
before  the  fire.  Lemon  or  orange  flavor  can  be  added  when  desired, 
and  many  think  it  an  improvement,  and  the  same  with  raisins,  fruit, 
etc.  Ginger  can  be  replaced  by  other  spices,  like  cinnamon  and 
nutmeg,  by  those  who  prefer  their  flavor  to  ginger.  Yolks  of  eggs 
improve  gingerbread  even  when  not  prescribed  in  the  recipe;  and 
yolks  left  from  other  cooking  can  be  worked  into  gingerbread  to 
advantage;  2  yolks  equal  one  egg,  and  can  be  so  used  for  this 
purpose. 

EXTKACTS  AND  FLAVOKINGS. 

These  are  often  adulterated.  Many  of  them  can  be  easily 
and  successfully  made  at  home,  and  much  cheaper  than  to 
buy  them,  while  their  purity  will  then  be  assured.  In  making 
extracts  use  deodorized  alcohol  always.  If  the  oils  used  are  not 
pure  and  fresh  they  will  spoil  the  extract  by  giving  it  a  tur- 
pentine taste.  If  a  little  extract  is  dropped  on  anything  after  it  is 
baked,  less  will  be  needed,  because  heat  partially  destroys  the 
flavor.  It  is  therefore  better  not  to  add  extracts  to  anything  while 
hot. 

Essence    of  Allspice — Add  to  a  wine=glass   of 

strong  spirits,   1    drachm   of  the   oil   of  allspice. 

This  is  used,  2  or  3  drops  at  a  time,  for  puddings, 

soups,  etc. 

Allspice  is  the  popular  name  given  to  Pimento  or 
Jamaica  peppeb.  It  is  the  berry  of  a  tree  (the  Pimenta  Offi- 
cinalis) -which  grows  in  the  West  Indies  and  South  America, 
and  attains  a  height  of  15  to  20  feet.  The  berries  are 
picked  green  and  dried  in  the  sun,  when  they  become  black. 
Pimento  contains  about  4  per  cent  of  an  aromatic  pungent 
oil  much  like  cloves.  It  is  a  mild,  agreeable  and  innocent 
spice.  allspice. 

Almond. — Crush  1  cup  of  the  kernels  of  peach  stone,  and  soak 
them  in  2  cups  alcohol.  In  using,  allow  1  teaspoon  of  the  extract 
for  1  quart  of  cake  dough  or  custard.  The  flavor  is  very  much  like 
almonds. 

Bedford  Flavoring. — Put  into  a  bottle  3  drops  of  peppermint,  the 
same  of  oil  of  rose,  and  -^  cup  deodorized  alcohol;  shake  well,  and 
keep  corked. 

Essence  of  Celery — Soak  for  12  or  l-I  days  ^  oz.  of  celery  seeds  in 


356  CAK£. 

^  j)iiit  of  brandy.  A  few  drops  will  flavor  a  pint  of  souj^  equal  to  a 
head  of  celery. 

Cherry  and  Plum. — The  kernels  of  cherry  and  plum  stones,  steeped 
in  brandy,  make  a  nice  flavoring  liquid  for  tarts,  etc. 

Citronelle. — Take  the  grated  rind  of  1  orange  and  1  lemon  i^eel, 
rub  them  to  a  pulp,  and  add  ^  of  a  nutmeg  grated;  add  1  cup  water 
and  6  whole  cloves,  and  gently  boil  2  or  3  minutes;  then  strain,  and 
add  1  cup  sugar,  and  boil  to  a  thin  syrup;  keep  it  in  a  bottle. 

Coffee. — Infuse  ^  lb.  of  the  best  ground  and  roasted  coffee,  in  1 
pint  alcohol. 

Curacoa. — This  is  nothing  but  a  tincture  of  the  Curacoa  orange 
peel,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  essential  oils.  Orange  juice  can 
be  used  in  its  place  for  flavorings;  or  orange  essence,  tinctured  with 
cinnamon,  mace  or  cloves. 

Laural  Flavoring. — Take  an  earthen  bowl,  and  break  into  it  7  or  8 
bay  leaves,  and  add  4  cloves  and  ^  of  a  nutmeg  grated;  then  add  ^ 
cup  of  water  and  steep  for  a  few  minutes  on  the  stove  in  a  basin  of 
liot  water,  and  covered  with  a  saucer;  now  strain,  add  2  tablspoons 
of  sugar,  and  when  cold  add  ^  cup  deodorized  alcohol.  KeeiJ 
bottled  for  use. 

Lemon. — Put  lemon  peel,  cut  into  small  pieces,  into  a  bottle,  add 
alcohol  enough  to  cover  it,  cork,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  5  or  6 
days,  until  the  alcohol  extracts  the  essential  oil  from  the  rind.  It 
can  be  strengthened  by  adding  oil  of  lemon,  (about  ^  oz.  to  an  8  oz. 
bottle)  or  weakened  by  adding  more  alcohol.  It  is  easily  made, 
cheap  and  good. 

Orange  extract  is  made  in  the  same  way  as  the  lemon. 

Maraschino. — This,  when  genuine,  is  made  from  the  kernel  of  the 
Marasca  cherry,  which  is  grown  only  in  Dalmatia.  It  is  often  made 
from  the  oil  of  bitter  almonds,  blended  with  oils  of  cinnamon,  rose= 
water,  etc.  A  similar  flavor  can  be  made  as  follows:  Infuse  ^  lb. 
of  kernels  of  cherries  (bruised),  in  1  quart  of  alcohol  for  6  days; 
add  1  drachm  of  oil  of  maraschino,  and  1  lb.  of  white  sugar,  made 
into  a  syrup  by  boiling  it  in  |  quart  of  water  down  to  a  pint;  strain 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  bottle  for  use.  Make  |  or  ^  the  quantity  if 
desired. 

Noyau — This  is  made  from  white  brandy  and  bruised  bitter  al- 
monds. It  contains  a  large  proportion  of  prussic  acid  derived 
from  the  bitter  almonds.  The  best  comes  from  Martinique,  but  it 
is  expensive  and  often  imitated.  Make  thus:  Infuse  some  fresh 
young  peach  leaves  in  whisky  for  a  couple  of  days;  then  strain  the 
infusion  and  mix  with  clarified  syrup  when  cold.  With  age  it 
will  nearly  equal  the  genuine. 


CAKE  357 

Ratafias. — This  is  the  name  given  to  spirituous  liquors  flavored 
with  the  kernels  of  various  fruits,  such  as  peaches,  cherries,  apricots, 
etc.,  used  as  flavoring  for  sweet  dishes.  Although  delicious  when 
used  sparingly,  they  are  unpleasant  or  oven  poisonous  if  used  to 
excess.  Peach  or  apricot  leaves  infused  in  alcohol  can  be  used  in- 
stead of  ratafia  for  flavoring  pudding.  The  ratafia  cakes  are  fla- 
vored with  almonds. 

Cherry  Ratafia.— Take  1  lb.  Morrella  cherries  with  the  kernels 
bruised,  1  pint  proof  spirits,  -^Ib.  sugar;  let  it  soak  2  weeks,  and 
strain  through  flannel. 

Currant  Ratafia. — Take  -|  cup  black  currant  juice,  2  grains  cin- 
namon, 2  grains  cloves,  2  grains  peach  kernels,  1  pint  brandy,  6  oz. 
white  sugar;  let  stand  2  weeks,  and  strain  through  flannel. 

Rose  Extract — Let  rose  leaves  soak  in  alcohol  till  the  essential 
oil  is  extracted  (about  a  week);  then  strain,  and  add  about  -|  drachm 
of  otto  of  roses  to  1  pint  of  the  extract. 

Tea  Flavoring. — Take  about  4  teaspoons  of  the  best  black  tea, 
crush  it  and  put  it  into  a  bowl  (it  is  a  good  plan  to  mix  2  or  3  differ- 
ent kinds);  pour  on  about  f  cup  of  freshly  boiled  water,  and  boiling 
hot;  cover  it  with  a  saucer,  and  let  it  steep  10  or  12  minutes;  then 
strain  through  cloth  and  use. 

Vanilla. — Cut  up  5  or  6  vanilla  beans,  pods  and  all,  put  them  in 
a  pint  bottle,  fill  with  alcohol,  and  in  a  few  days  the  alcohol  will 
extract  the  essential  oil.  Equal  parts  of  vanilla  and  tonka  beans 
can  be  used,  and  a  very  good  flavoring  extract  produced.  The  tonka 
beans  should  be  soaked  in  warm  water  till  the  skin  can  be  rubbed 
off,  and  then  both  should  be  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Vanilla  sugar  is  prepared  by  cutting  up  the  pods,  putting 
them  in  a  mortar  with  10  or  12  times  as  much  sugar,  and  pounding 
fine;  then  pass  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  pound  again  if  necessary,  and 
keep  in  a  bottle  tightly  corked.  Or  the  beans 
can  be  cut  up,  put  in  a  jar,  covered  with  the 
sugar,  and  covered  tightly.  Use  the  sugar  as 
needed,  adding  more  as  long  as  the  beans  fla- 
vor it. 

Syrup  of  vanilla  is  simple  syrup  flavored 
with  essence  of  vanilla. 

The  vanilla  bean  is  the  fruit   of  a   plant  (an  orchid) 
indigenous  to  Mexico,  Peru.  Brazil,  etc.     The  fruit  is  cyl-  tonka  bean. 

indrical    in   shape    and   is    filled  with   small,    black,    oily 

seeds.  Its  odor  is  due  to  the  presence  of  benzoic  acid,  and  is  so  powerful  that  it  i.- 
said  to  intoxicate  those  who  climb  the  trees  to  gather  it.  Vanilla  is  not  suitabU 
for  flavoring  food  for  invalids  because  of  its  medicinal  qualities.  It  is  a  >j(Mit!( 
stimulant  and  promotes  digestion.     The  Mexican  beans  are  the  best. 


358  CAKE 

The  tonka  beans  are  the  seeds  of  the  Dipterus  otiorata,  which  is  a  native  of 
Guiana.     The  odor  comes  from  a  volatile  oil  which  they  contain. 

Rose  Water — This  can  be  prepared  by  puttinL^-  a  large  pinch  of 
carbonate  of  magnesia,  and  4  drops  of  kissaulik  otto  of  rose  into  2 
pints  of  pure  water;  then  filter  through  fine  muslin  or  filter  paper. 
If  the  otto  is  good  it  will  make  a  fine  rose  water,  and  will  keep  in- 
definitely. 

Orange  Flower  Water. — This  can  be  prepared  the  same  way,  using 
4  drops  of  oil  of  neroli  Begarade,  instead  of  the  otto  of  rose. 

To  Grate  Lemon  Peel. — Lemon  peel  gives  a  different  flavor  from 
any  extract.  There  is  a  right  and  wrong  way  to  grate  it.  The 
flavor  comes  from  an  essential  oil  found  only  in  the  yelloio  rind  at 
the  surface.  The  white  part  underneath  is  bitter,  contains  no  lemon 
flavor,  will  curdle  milk  or  cream,  and  is  objectionable.  Therefore 
grate  a  lemon  carefully,  aiming  to  remove  all  the  yellow  surface,  hut 
no  more.  Begin  at  the  end,  turn  the  lemon  round  as  it  is  grated, 
and  work  evenly,  and  it  can  be  easily  and  smoothly  done.  This 
gives  the  zest  as  it  is  called. 

Orange  peel  can  be  grated  the  same  way.  Either  can  be  used 
for  sherbets,  cakes,  puddings,  etc.  They  can  be  kept  on  hand  for 
use  by  mixing  them  with  powdered  sugar,  (use  4  parts  sugar  to  1 
part  grated  peel)  and  keep  in  tightly  corked  l^ottes. 

COOKING  IN  HIGH  ALTITUDES. 

In  all  high  altitudes  the  rule  is  to  use  less  butter  and  sugar,  and 
more  flour  and  eggs.  If  too  much  butter  is  used  in  such  regions  the 
cake  will  fall,  so  that  very  rich  cakes  cannot  be  made  there.  The 
greater  the  elevation  the  more  difficulty  is  experienced.  Cakes 
having  no  butter  like  sponge  cake,  are  easily  made  in  high  altitudes. 
(See  also  our  "  Denver  cake.")  The  filling  for  layer  cakes  can  be 
made  quite  rich  in  such  regions,  if  desired. 

The  reason  for  the  foregoing  rule  appears  to  be  this:  The  object  in  beating  eggs  is  to 
fill  them  with  air,  which  the  tenacious  albumen  of  the  egg  holds,  and  carries  into  the  cake, 
but  in  high  altitudes  the  air  thus  incorporated  is  much  lighter  than  at  sea  level,  and  the  cake 
will  fall  unless  it  is  "held  up,"  so  to  speak,  by  a  stiff  batter;  hence  the  rule  is  to  "Double 
the  flour,  or  divide  the  egg,  and  useless  butler."  It  is  found  in  these  regions  that  powdered 
sugar  works  better  than  granulated.  At  an  altitude  of  6,000  feet  above  sea  level,  for  an  ordinary 
cake  recipe  use  only  one-half  as  much  sugar,  and  from  one-fourth  to  one-half  as  much  butter 
as  the  recipe  calls  for.  At  that  altitude  not  over  one-half  cup  of  butter  can  be  used,  as  a  rule, 
in  any  cake.  This  rare  atmosphere  is  very  dry,  and  quickly  dries  cake  and  bread.  These 
should  be  kept  in  a  close  box,  in  which  vessels  of  water  are  placed  to  keep  the  air  moist  Owing 
to  this  dryness  of  the  air,  however,  meats  will  keep  much  longer  than  in  damper  climates.  The 
effect  of  light  air  on  boiling  water  we  have  explained  on  page  16.  It  is  difficult  to  cook  anything 
by  boiling  at  all,  above  what  is  known  as  "  the  timber  line."  Eggs  must  be  boiled  10  minutes  to 
even  be  "soft"  on  Pike's  Peak 


LAYEE  CAKES  359 

LAYER    CAKES. 

Let  layer  cakes  cool  on  some  flat  surface,  like  an  inverted  jelly- 
tin,  rather  than  on  an  uneven  surface,  like  a  plate.  An  inverted  jelly- 
tin  also  makes  a  good  base  on  which  to  build  up  a  jelly  cake,  and  it 
should  be  left  there  till  cold.  Those  with  a  little  experience  can 
vary  the  fillings  for  jelly  cakes  and  make  many  attractive  combina- 
tions, but  the  novice  will  best  adhere  to  her  recipes  closely. 

For  Time  to  Bake  see  "  Loaf  Cakes." 

FILLINGS. 

Layer  cakes,  when  analyzed,  will  be  found  to  consist  of  a  cake 
baked  in  layers  (different  recipes  being  often  quite  similar)  and  then 
various  fillings  are  used.  We  give  an  exceptionally  full  list  of  differ- 
ent fillings  which  are  suitable  for  use  with  any  good  recipe  for  layer 
cake,  and  many  varieties  are  thus  easily  produced. 

ALMOND  FILLING — Use  1  cup  thick  sour  jam,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  1  lb.  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped  fine,  and  sugar  to  taste 
or  make  sweet.  Or,  (2)  Stir  blanched  and  chopped  almonds  into 
whipped  or  mock  whipped  cream,  and  spread  between  layers.  Or, 
(3)  Mix  chopped  almonds  into  the  icing  filling  given  below. 

APPLE  FILLING.— Cook  2  large  apples  until  soft;  then  add  1 
cup  sugar,  the  well^beaten  yolk  of  1  egg,  and  the  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  1  lemon;  cook  all,  about  5  minutes,  and  spread  between  the 
layers  while  warm.  Or,  (2)  Mix  slices  of  apple  in  the  icing  filling 
given  below. 

DRIED  FRUIT  FILLING — To  4  cups  of  the  best  evaporated  ap- 
ples, take  3  cups  of  nice  dried  raspberries,  and  let  them  cook  slowly 
for  3  or  4  hours;  then  work  through  the  colander  and  add  2  cups  of 
sugar  (or  more,  if  preferred)  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  This  is  nice  for 
layer  cake,  short  cake,  and  with  meats. 

BANANA  FILLING — Mash  6  bananas,  add  the  juice  of  1  lem- 
on, and  3  tablespoons  of  sugar — more  if  liked.  Or,  (2)  Mix  sliced 
bananas  with  the  whipped  cream  or  icing  fillings  given  below. 

CARAMEL    FILLING Take   1   cup  granulated  sugar,   1  cup 

brown  sugar,  ^  tablespoon  butter  (scant,)   |  cup  sweet  milk;   boil 
about  7  minutes;  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  beat,  and  spread  on  cake. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING. — Into  ^  cup  milk  scrape  2  squares  of 
chocolate  and  add  3  tablespoons  sugar  (heaping);  boil  till  thick,  and 
spread  between  layers  and  on  top. 


B60  LAYER  CAKES 

CREAM  CHOCOLATE  FILLING.— Take  1|  cups  of  confection- 
er's sugar  and  just  enough  sweet  cream  to  moisten;  mix  well,  set  the 
vessel  containing  it  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water  and  let  it  come  to  the 
boiling  point;  then  add  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
also  enough  grated  chocolate  to  give  a  light  or  dark  color,  as  desired. 
Beat  until  cool  and  stiff;  then  add  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla;  spread  be- 
tween and  on  the  top  of  layer  cakes. 

COCOANUT  FILLING — Use  either  a  plain  or  boiled  icing,  and 
stir  in  either  grated  or  dessicated  cocoanut.  The  cocoanut  is  some- 
times soaked  in  milk  for  |  hour  before  using  it. 

CRANBERRY  FILLING. — On  each  layer  spread  rich  cranberry 
jelley,  and  cover  it  with  white  icing. 

CREAM  FILLING.— One  pint  of  sweet  milk;  1  small  cup  of 
sugar;  put  it  over  the  fire,  in  a  double  boiler,  or  pail  set  in  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water;  just  before  it  boils  add  2  welbbeaten  eggs;  a  pinch  of 
salt,  and  2  tablespoons  of  corn=starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk; 
stir  until  it  thickens.     When  cool,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  FILLING — Whip  1  cup  sweet  cream  to  a 
stiff  froth ;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste,  and  spread  on.  The  cream 
will  froth  easier  if  put  on  ice  ^  hour  before  whipping. 

MOCK  WHIPPED  CREAM.— Take  1  large  sour  apple,  peel- 
ed  and  grated,  1  cup  white  sugar,  white  of  1  egg;  beat  all  together 
a  long  time.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Mix  the  apple  with  the  sugar  as 
soon  as  possible  after  grating,  or  it  will  turn  dark.  Use  like  whipped 
cream.     Delicious.     Try  it. 

CUSTARD  FILLING — Spread  good  custard  between  layers,  hav- 
ing it  slightly  cool  before  spreading  it  on. 

DATE    FILLING — Take   2   lbs.  dates,  remove   the  seeds,  chop 
fine  and  add  cold  water  enough  to  make  a  smooth  paste. 
Figs  may  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

FIG  FILLING. — (1)  Use  1  cup  chopped  figs,  |  cup  hot  water,  1 
small  cup  powdered  sugar;  cook  till  soft,  and  spread  between  layers. 
Or  (2)  Stir  chopped  figs  into  the  icing  filling  given  below. 

ICING  FILLING.— Beat  together  whites  of  3  eggs  and  1  cup 
pulverized  sugar;  add  |  teaspoon  of  any  flavoring  desired.  This  can 
be  varied  by  stirring  in  any  fruit  desired,  such  as  stoned  and  seeded 
raisins,  chopped  almonds,  bananas,  berries,  figs,  dates,  etc. 

BOILED  ICING  FILLING — Put  a  little  water  on  2  cups  of  gran- 
ulated sugar —  just  enough  to  dissolve  it;  let  it  boil  until  it   linir.ui 


LAYER  CAKES  36] 

from  a  spoon;  pour  it  slowly  on  the  well-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs, 
beating  all  the  time,  until  thick  enough  to  spread  on  the  cake;  add  a 
teaspoon  of  any  flavoring  desired.  As  it  cools  any  kind  of  fruit  can 
be  stirred  in  if  desired. 

JELLY  FILLING. — Fruit  jelly,  jam  or  marmalade  of  almost 
any  kind  is  nice  spread  between  layers  of  cake.  Add  a  layer  of 
icing  also  if  desired. 

LEMON  FILLING.— Use  1  lemon  (juice  and  grated  rind),  1  egg, 
•|  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  water,  butter  size  of  walnut.  Beat  all 
together,  set  on  stove  and  let  boil  up  a  minute. 

LEMON  HONEY  FILLING.— Use  1  lb.  loaf  sugar,  2  whole  eggs, 
yolks  of  8  eggs,  ^  lb.  butter,  juice  of  6  lemons,  grated  rind  of  2  lem- 
ons. Put  the  sugar,  lemon  and  butter  into  a  sauce=:pan,  and  melt 
over  a  gentle  fire;  when  all  is  dissolved  stir  in  the  eggs,  which  have 
been  well  beaten;  stir  rapidly  until  it  is  as  thick  as  honey.  Spread 
this  between  the  layers  of  cake.  Set  aside  the  remainder  in  a  closely 
covered  vessel  for  future  use. 

MAPLE  FILLING — Take  1  cup  maple  sugar,  1  cup  white  sugar 
and^  cup  of  water;  boil  until  it  will  form  in  stiff  drops  when  dropped 
into  cold  water;  cool  until  slightly  warm,  and  add  whites  of  2  eggs, 
beaten  stiff;  spread  between  the  layers  of  cake. 

MOCK  MAPLE  FILLING — Take  2  cups  good  brown  sugar,  | 
cup  sweet  cream,  butter  size  of  large  egg;  boil  together  carefully  12 
minutes;  strain  through  a  hair  sieve  or  double  cheese  cloth.  Flavor 
with  1|  teaspoons  vanilla.  Let  it  cool  and  thicken  before  spreading 
on  cake. 

NUT  FILLING — Take  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  thick  cream,  (sweet 
or  sour)  1  cup  hickory  nuts  chopped  fine;  boil  all  together  until 
thick.  Any  other  oily  nuts  can  be  used  instead,  such  as  peanuts, 
almonds  or  butternuts. 

ORANGE  FILLING — Take  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  oran- 
ges, stir  in  as  much  powdered  sugar  as  the  liquid  will  take  up,  and 
spread  it  between  layers.  This  may  be  varied  by  stirring  in  des- 
sicated  cocoanut  with  the  sugar,  and  then  si3rinkling  dry  cocoanut 
on  top  of  the  cake.  Or  use  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff",  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  1  orange  made  thick  with  pulverized  sugar;  beat 
all  well  together  and  use.  Or  mix  slices  of  orange  into  the  icing 
filling  given  above. 

ORANGE  FILLING  No.  2.— One  cup  sugar  wet  with  3  table- 
spoons of  orange  juice  (enough  drops  from  the  oranges  as  you  slice 


362  LAYEK  CAKES 

them,  if  not,  use  water);  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Simmer  this  on  the 
stove  until  a  nice  syrup,  and  when  boiling  add  2  beaten  eggs;  remove 
from  stove  and  stir  briskly.  When  cold  add  orange  or  lemon  flavor 
and  the  sliced  fruit,  and  sjoread  between  the  layers. 

ORANGE  AND  COCOANUT  FILLING — Beat  1  egg  stiff,  add  1 
cup  sweet  cream,  1  cup  grated  cocoanut,  juice  and  -|  the  grated  rind 
of  1  large  orange  and  ^  cup  sugar.  Spread  it  between  layers  and 
on  top   of  cake,  and  sprinkle  on  fresh  grated  cocoanut. 

PEACH  OR  FRUIT  CREAM  FILLING.— Cut  peaches  into  thin 
slices,  or  chop  them,  and  prepare  cream  by  whipping  and  sweeten- 
ing. Put  a  layer  of  peaches  between  the  layers  of  cake,  and  pour 
the  cream  over  each  layer  and  over  the  top. 

Bananas,  strawberries,  and  other  fruit  may  be  used  the  same 
way,  mashing  the  strawberries  when  used,  and  strewing  them  thick 
with  powdered  sugar. 

PINEAPPLE  FILLING.— Chop  1  pineapple  fine  and  cook  it 
with  f  its  weight  of  sugar;  while  hot,  add  ^  box  of  gelatine  (having 
had  that  soaking  in  cold  water  for  1  hour  before.)  It  should  be 
thick  enough  not  to  run.  Spread  thickly  on  all  layers  but  the  top 
one. 

PLUM  FILLING — Stew  plums  till  soft,  remove  pits  and  skins, 
and  pass  the  pulp  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Spread  between  layers. 
Or  (2)  stew,  chop,  and  stir  the  plums  into  the  icing  filling  given 
above. 

PRUNE  FILLING — Stew,  stone  and  chop  the  prunes  and  stir 
them  into  the  icing  filling  given  above. 

RAISIN  FILLING.— ^Seed  and  chop  1  cup  of  raisins,  and  stir 
them  into  the  icing  filling  given  above.  Or,  use  equal  amounts  of 
raisins  and  blanched  almonds  (chopjjed)  if  desired. 

RAISIN  FILLING  No.  2.— Take  1  cup  maple  syrup,  add  a  little 
vinegar  to  prevent  its  graining,  boil  till  it  threads  from  a  spoon;  then 
add  1  cup  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped,  and  stir  till  cold. 

RHUBARB  FILLING.— Yolks  of  2  eggs,  beaten,  ^  cup  sugar,  I 
cup  butter,  \  cup  rhubarb  juice,  strained  and  sweetened;  set  the  dish 
containing  this  mixture  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  stir  continually 
until  the  paste  is  smooth  and  thick.  Then  spread  between  layers  of 
cake, 

STRAWBERRY  FILLING.— Take  white  of  1  egg,  beat  till  very 


LAYER  CAKES  md 

stiff,  add  f  cup  of  sugar  and  beat  again;  then  add  f  cup  fresh 
strawberries  bruised  to  a  pulp,  and  beat  till  stiff. 

STRAWBERRY  AND  RASPBERRY  FILLING.— Spread  icing 
over  each  layer,  and  cover  the  icing  with  choice  fresh  strawberries  or 
r&sberries,  or  stir  the  fruit  into  the  icing  before  spreading  it  on. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI  FILLING.— Make  a  soft  icing  with  whites  of  2 
eggs,  well  beaten,  and  pulverized  sugar.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or 
lemon  if  desired.  Then  stir  into  it  ^  cup  best  raisins,  seeded  and 
chopped  fine,  2  tablespoons  currants,  washed,  dried  and  picked,  2 
tablespoons  orange  marmalade.  Enough  for  2  good  sized  layer 
cakes.  Other  combinations  of  fruit  can  be  easily  devised  by  the 
ingenious  cook,  and  stirred  into  a  soft  icing.  Almonds  (chopped), 
raisins  (seeded  and  chopped)  and  cocoanut  make  a  nice  combina- 
tion.    So  do  figs,  almonds  and  citron. 

LAYER  CAKE.^ 
i  cup  butter.  1  pint  flour. 

1  cup  sugar  (heaping).  2  level  teaspoons  baking 
i  cup  milk.  powder. 

2  eggs.  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 
Bake  in  layers.     This  is  a  standard  recipe.     It  can 

be  varied,  if  desired,  by  using  i  to  1  cup  of  corn=starch 
in  place  of  that  much  flour,  and  4  to  6  eggs  could  be 
used  if  preferred;  also  rich  cream  instead  of  milk,  and 
any  other  extract  instead  of  the  lemon.  Use  any  of  the 
preceding  fillings  desired. 

1-2-3  CAKE. 
i  cup  butter.  3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

2  cups  sugar.  Any  flavoring  desired. 

3  eggs.  Bake  in  layers. 

Filling. — Use  1  cup  milk;  2  eggs;  i  cup  sugar; 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  hickory  nut;  any  fla- 
voring desired.  Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil;  thicken  the 
Qgg  with  flour  and  add  to  the  boiling  milk.  When  off 
the  fire  stir  in  1  cup  cocoanut.  Also  sprinkle  cocoanut 
over  the  top  of  cake  when  it  is  done. 


364  LAYEK  CAKES 

ALMOND  CAKE. 

1  cup   butter.  3  eggs. 

2  cup    sugar.  4  cups  flour. 

1  cup  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  layers  and  use  the  almond  filling  given 
among  our  fillings. 

APPLE  JELLY  CAKE. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  1  egg. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  layers,   and   use  the   apple  filling  given 
among  the  previous  fillings. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE  No.  1. 

i  cup  butter.  4  eggs. 

2  cups  powdered  sugar.        2  cups  flour  (well  filled). 

i  cup  sweet  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Divide  into  3  parts  and  bake  2  layers  as  mixed. 
Into  the  third  part  mix  i  cup  grated  chocolate  and 
bake.  For  the  icing,  boil  1  cup  white  sugar  and  3 
spoonfuls  water  till  it  ropes;  add  the  white  of  an  egg 
and  beat  together  until  white.  Ice  each  layer,  putting 
the  dark  layer  in  the  center,  and  ice  the  top. 
BEATEN  CREAM  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter.  3  whites  of  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar.  2    cups  flour. 

I  cup  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  3  layers  and  put  together  with  thick  sweet 
cream  beaten  with  a  little  pulverized   sugar.    Or   use 
the  "  mock  whipped  cream  "  given  among  the  fillings. 
CHEAP  CREAM  CAKE. 

1  tablespoon  butter.  1  egg. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Add  1  teaspoon  of  any  flavoring  and  bake  in  lay- 
ers.   Use  the  cream  filling  given  among  our  fillings. 


LAYER  CAKES  365 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE  No.  2. 

i  cup  butter.  2  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  cups  flour, 

i  cup  sweet  milk.  li  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  layers. 
Chocolate  Cream  For  Filling. — Take  i  cup   milk, 
yolk  of  1   egg,   i  cup   chocolate,   1   teaspoon  vanilla; 
sweeten  to  taste;    boil  until  thick  as  jelly.     Spread 
between  layers  when  cold. 

COCOANUT  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  10  whites  of  eggs. 

2  cups  sugar.  3i  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  2i  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Filling. — Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  sugar 
enough  added  to  keep  it  from  running;  spread  it  on 
layers,  and  sprinkle  cocoanut  between  layers  and  on 
top  of  cake. 

COCOANUT  CAKE  No.  2. 

i  cup  butter.  h  cup  corn= starch, 

li  cups  sugar.  li  cups  flour, 

i  cup  water.  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

6  whites  of  eggs.  i  teaspoon  soda. 

Bake  in  layer  tins.  Then  take  the  whites  of  3  eggs 
and  beat  to  a  froth  with  6  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  1 
cup  grated  cocoanut.  Use  it  for  both  filling  and  frost- 
ing. 

CREAM  CAKE. 
1  cup  sugar.  li  cups  flour. 

3  eggs.  2  small    teaspoons    baking 
3  tablespoons  water.  powder. 

Bake  in  4  jelly  tins,  and  when  done  spread  the  lay- 
ers with  the  cream  filling  given  among  our  fillings. 
Do  not  spread  on  the  filling  till  the  cake  is  cold.  If 
preferred  it  can  be  baked  in  2  ordinary  pie  tins  and 
split  open  when  cold. 


866  LAYER  CAKES 

CUSTARD  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar.  U  cups  flour. 

3  eggs,  beaten  separate.        1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

2  tablespoons  cold  water      Flavor  to  taste, 
added  to    the    beaten 

whites. 
Bake  in  2  tins  in  a  hot  oven;  split  when  hot,  and 
spread  with  custard. 

DATE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2  cups  sugar.  3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

5  eggs. 

Bake  in  5  layers,  and  use  the  date   filling   given 

among  our  fillings. 

DENVER  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter.  1  cup  sweet  milk, 

li  cups  sugar.  3  cups  sifted  flour. 

6  eggs.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

This  cake  must  be  well  beaten.  It  will  make  5 
layers.  Use  any  filling  desired.  It  can  be  made  in 
high  altitudes. 

ECONOMICAL  LAYER  CAKE. 
i  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  tablespoon  corn=starch 

made  smooth  in 
1  cup  sweet  milk. 

Bake  in  thin  sheets.  Use  cream,  cocoanut,  jelly  or 
any  filling  desired. 

FIG  LAYER  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour  (sifted). 

1  cup  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

4  large  or  5  small  eggs.  1  teaspoon  vannilla. 
i  cup  milk. 

Bake  in  4  layers.     When  cold  spread  on  our  "  Fig 

Filling,  No.  1." 


LAYEK  CAKES  367 

lEOQUOIS  CAKE, 
i  cup  butter.  li  cups  flour. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  whites  of  eggs.  (scant), 

i  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

Bake  in  2  tins,  and  use  the  "  icing  filling  "  given 
among  our  fillings. 

JELLY  CAKE. 
i  cup  butter.  i  cup  milk  (scant). 

1  cup  sugar.  If  cups  flour. 

2  eggs.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  teaspoon  of  any  flavoring. 

Bake  in  three  layers.     Spread  jelly  between  layers 

for  filling. 

PEACH  CAKE. 

Bake  sponge  cake  in  3  layers  as  for  jelly  cake;  take 
fine  ripe  peaches,  chop  fine  or  slice  thin.  Between 
layers  and  on  top  put  a  layer  of  the  peaches  and  cover 
them  with  either  the  whipped  cream  or  mock  whipped 
cream  given  among  our  fillings.  Eat  soon  after  pre- 
paring it. 

ROCHESTEK  JELLY  CAKE. 

LIGHT   PAET. 

1  cup  butter.  3  cups  flour. 

2  cups  white  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
6  whites  of  eggs.  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  Bake  in  3  layers. 

DAEK   PAET. 

i  cup  butter.  2  cups  seeded  raisins. 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  i  cup  citron  (chopped  fine). 

i  cup  molasses.  ^  teaspoon  cloves. 

1  egg.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

2  cups  flour.  i  nutmeg,  grated. 

i  teaspoon  soda  dissolved    1  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 
in  i  cup  coffee.  Bake  in  2  layers. 

Put  light  and  dark  parts  alternately,  spreading 
jelly  between  the  layers.    Frost  the  top. 


368  LAYER  CAKES 

ROLLED  JELLY  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  flour 

3  eggs.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

2  tablespoons  milk.  i  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

Bake  in  a  long  tin,  and  while  warm  spread  with 
jelly  or  jam. (raspberry  is  best)  and  roll  thus;  spread  a 
towel  on  the  table,  lay  on  the  cake,  and  roll,  keeping 
towel  over  it  to  prevent  its  cracking.  Do  not  take  off 
towel  until  the  cake  is  cold. 

MINNEHAHA  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  3  cups  flour. 

2  cups  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
1  cup  milk.                              Flavor  with  lemon. 

8  whites  of  eggs. 

Filling.— Use  1  cup  blanched  almonds,  and  2  cups 
seeded  raisins,  chopped  fine;  mix  these  with  a  boiled 
frosting,  and  flavor  with  lemon.  Put  blanched  almonds 
in  halves  in  the  frosting  on  top. 

NUT  LAYER  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  li  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
i  cup  sweet  milk.  der. 

2  eggs.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Use  the  "  Nut  Filling  "  given  among  our  fillings. 
ORANGE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

2  cups  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
h  cup  water.  1  orange,  juice  and  grated 
5  yolks  of  eggs.  rind. 

3  whites  of  eggs. 

Use  the  orange  filling  No.  1  given  among  our  fill- 
ings. 

CORNSTARCH  JELLY  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  1  cup  flour. 

2  cups  sugar.  7  whites  of  eggs. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

1  cup  corn=starch.  i  teaspoon  soda. 

Bake  in  layers.  Spread  any  good  jelly  between 
layers  for  filling. 


LAYER  CAKES  869 

ORIENTAL   CAKE. 

WHITE   AND    PINK    LAYERS. 

i  cup  butter.  h  cup  corn=starch. 

1  cup  granulaied  sugar.  li  cups  flour. 

i  cup  milk.  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

3  whites  of  eggs.  powder. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  cream,  add  milk  and 
corn=starch,  first  stirring  them  together,  then  the  flour 
and  baking  powder,  and  last  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
light.  Divide  the  mixture  in  two,  and  into  i  put  as 
much  pink  coloring  as  you  like,  the  object  being  to  form 
different  colored  layers. 

YELLOW  AND  BEOWN  PAETS. 

i  cup  butter.  1  whole  egg. 

1  cup  sugar.  If  cups  flour. 

i  cup  sweet  milk.  li  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

4  yolks  of  eggs,   beaten 
light. 

After  mixing  divide  into  2  parts,  and  to  1  part  add: 

1  oz.  grated  chocolate,  1  tablespoon  of  water,  3  tea- 
spoons of  sugar  and  i  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  which  should 
be  stirred  until  smooth  over  a  hot  fire.  Bake  all  the 
layers  in  jelly=pans  in"  a  moderate  oven — it  should  bake 
in  about  20  minutes. 

For  filling  use  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  and  whites  of 

2  eggs,  beaten  light.  Use  the  brown  cake  for  the  bot- 
tom layer,  spread  over  it  a  thin  coating  of  the  filling 
and  cover  with  a  layer  of  thin  slices  of  figs  placed  close 
together;  next  the  yellow  cake  with  icing  and  sliced 
oranges  free  from  seeds  and  rind;  next,  whites  with 
icing  and  cocoanut;  finish  with  the  pink  layer  spread 
with  a  firm,  white  icing,  decorated  with  almonds  and 
candies.  It  is  best  eaten  fresh.  This  makes  a  deli- 
cious cake.  If  desired,  you  can  leave  out  all  the  filling 
except  the  icing.         '^^ 


370  LAYER  CAKES 

POLONAISE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter  (scant).  3  cups  flour. 

2  cups  pulverized  sugar.       H  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
1  cup  milk.  Bake  in  4  layers. 

7  whites  of  eggs. 

Filling. — Use  3  cups  pulverized  sugar  boiled  in  a 
little  water  until  brittle;  then  turn  the  hot  sugar  upon 
the  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs,  stirring  until  cold.  On  the 
first  layer  spread  \  lb.  macaroons  chopped  fine  and 
mixed  with  some  of  the  frosting.  On  the  second  layer 
I  lb.  crystalized  fruit,  chopped  fine,  mixed  with  some  of 
the  frosting  and  flavored  with  lemon.  Third  layer,  i 
lb.  blanched  almonds  and  i  lb.  citron  both,  chopped  fine 
and  mixed  with  some  of  the  frosting,  flavored  with  1 
teaspoon  extract  of  almonds  and  1  teaspoon  of  rose 
water.  Frost  the  top  with  the  frosting  left  over,  mixed 
with  a  little  crystalized  fruit. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar.  li  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  Flavor  with  almond. 

2  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  layers. 

Grated  cocoanut  mixed  with  sugar  can  be  spread 
between  the  layers;  or,  if  desired,  an  icing  can  be  made 
of  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs,  and 
enough  dissolved  chocolate  to  give  it  a  rich  dark  color. 

COCOANUT  WHITE  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter.  3  eggs. 

li  cups  sugar.  2  cups  flour. 

i  cup  sweet  milk.  li  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  jelly  tins.  Make  a  frosting  of  the  whites 
of  2  eggs  and  \  cup  sugar,  and  beat  into  it  some  finely 
grated  cocoanut  Spread  it  between  and  on  top  of  cake 
and  set  it  aside  to  cool. 


LAYER  CAKES  371 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

3  cups  flour.  2  cups  boiling  water. 

1  cup  butter.  5  eggs. 

A  pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  the  flour,  butter  and  salt,  pour  in  the  boiling 
water,  beat  lightly,  and  put  on  the  stove  in  a  rice  boil- 
er; cook  until  it  becomes  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Then  take  from  stove,  let  it  cool,  and  then  break  in  the 
eggs  1  at  a  time.  Drop  on  buttered  dripping  pan  or 
gem  irons,  and  bake.  Have  the  puffs  baked  just  before 
serving  time;  split  and  fill  them  with  the  custard  filling 
given  among  our  fillings,  having  it  slightly  cool  before 
putting  it  in  the  puffs. 

RIBBON  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter.  5  yolks  of  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  cups  flour. 

i  cup  milk.  li  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  and  divide.  Flavor  one  half  with  orange ;  for 
the  other  half  use  vanilla,  and  enough  grated  chocolate 
to  color  brown.  Take  enough  for  1  layer  out  of  each 
half.    Then  take 

i  cup  butter.  5  whites  of  eggs. 

li  cups  sugar.  2  cups  flour. 

i  cup  milk.  li  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  and  divide.  Flavor  one  half  with  lemon; 
flavor  the  other  half  with  rose  water,  and  with  pulver- 
ized cochineal  color  it  pink  or  red.  Take  enough  for  1 
layer  out  of  each  half.  Then  mix  all  the  balance  of  the 
batter  together  and  put  in  any  kind  of  fruit  desired — 
seedless  raisins,  currants  or  citron.  Bake  in  5  layers. 
Build  the  cake  while  hot,  putting  nothing  between  lay- 
ers. Have  the  fruit  layers  alternate  with  the  brown, 
white,  yellow  and  red.     Frost  top  or  not. 


372  LOAF  CAKES 

STEAWBERRY  CAKE. 

Any  sponge  cake  recipe  will  do;  make  the  sponge 
cake  dough  in  very  thin  layers  and  bake  in  biscuit 
pans.  Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  and  when  stiff  add  4 
teaspoons  sugar.  Have  ready  a  dish  of  strawberries, 
sweetened  enough  to  take  away  the  acid  taste,  and 
spread  it  between  the  layers,  covering  the  berries  with 
the  frosting.     Cut  in  small  squares  and  serve  cold. 

VANITY  CAKE. 
4  cup  butter.  i  cup  corn=starch. 

H  cups  sugar.  li  cups  flour, 

li  cups  sweet  milk.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

6  whites  of  eggs. 

Bake  in  2  cakes,  putting  frosting  between  and  on 
top. 

LOAF  CAKES. 

Time  to  Bake. — Thin  cakes  will  bake  well  in  15  to  20  minutes; 
thicker  cakes  require  30  to  40  minutes;  and  very  thick  ones  will  re- 
quire about  1  hour.     Fruit  cake  will  require  from  2  to  3  hours. 

Do  not  take  cakes  out  of  the  oven  too  soon.  Let  delicate  cakes 
cool  a  little  in  the  pans  as  they  are  apt  to  fall  if  taken  out  of  them 
hot,  but  do  not  let  cakes  stay  in  the  pans  till  moist.  Let  the  air  cir- 
culate around  cakes  freely  to  cool  them,  and  have  them  thoroughly 
cold  before  putting  them  away.  Keep  them  in  a  tin  box  or  stone  jar 
tightly  closed.  Any  cake  made  with  yeast  is  best  eaten  quite  fresh. 
Cakes  which  are  to  be  long  kept,  like  wedding,  black  and  fruit  cakes, 
can  be  wrapped  in  waxed  paper  to  advantage.  Any  cake  can  have 
powdered  sugar  dusted  on  it  while  warm;  if  it  melts,  more  can  be 
added  after  it  cools. 

Use  a  warm  knife  if  you  cut  cake  while  it  is  warm. 

ALMOND  CAKE, 
i  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

li  cups  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

i  cup  milk.  1  cup  blanched  almonds. 

3  eggs. 

Blanch  the  almonds,  split  them  lengthwise,  dry 
them,  and  mix  with  the  cake  last. 


.  LOAF  CAKES  373 

APPLE  CAKE. 

h  cup  butter  and  2  eggs, 

i    cup    lard — melt    these    4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
together.  Flour     enough     to     make 

i  cup  sugar.  rather  soft. 

2i  cups  milk. 

Pare  and  slice  7  or  8  apples  and  set  them  down 
into  the  top  of  the  dough,  close  together,  when  it  is  in 
the  pan.  Sprinkle  A  cup  sugar  and  some  cinnamon  on 
top  of  all.  Bake  slowly,  and  when  the  apples  are  done 
the  cake  is  done.  This  makes  a  dripping  pan  full. 
APPLE  CAKE  No.  2. 

i  cup  butter.  2  cups  preserved  apples. 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  nutmeg. 

1  cup  boiling  water.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

After  these  are  well  mixed  together  add  2  well= 
beaten  eggs  and  4  cups  flour.  To  preserve  the  apples, 
take  1  quart  of  chopped  apples  and  stew  slowly  in  li 
cups  molasses  4  or  5  hours,  or  until  reduced  to  1  pint. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.    AVill  keep  several  weeks. 

DKIED  APPLE  CAKE. 
1  cup  butter  or  cream.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  Spice  to  taste. 

3  cups  flour. 

Soak  2  cups  dried  apples  over  night;  in  the  morn- 
ing boil  them  1  hour  (or  till  soft)  in  1  cup  sugar  and  1 
cup  molasses;  when  cold,  add  the  above  ingredients 
and  bake. 

ANGEL'S  FOOD. 

Take  1  tumbler  of  flour  and  put  into  it  1  teaspoon 
of  cream  of  tartar  and  sift  the  whole  4  times;  beat  the 
whites  of  11  eggs  to  a  stiff  frotli  and  then  beat  in  Ih 
tumblers  of  pulverized  suga)-,  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  and 
a  pinch  of  salt;  then  add  the  flour  and  beat  thoroughly 


374 


LOAF  CAKES 


but  lightly;  bake  in  a  bright  imgreased  pan  40  to  45 
minutes.  When  done,  turn  it  over  to  cool,  placing 
something  under  the  corner  of  the  pan  so  that  the  air 
will  circulate  underneath  and  assist  the  cooling;  cut  it 
out  when  cool. 

BLACK  CAKE. 


H  cups  butter. 
2  cups  brown  sugar. 
2  cups  sweet  milk. 
2  tablespoons  molasses. 
6  eggs  beaten  separate. 
»3  cups  browned  flour. 
2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 
1  teaspoon  soda. 


1  teaspoon  mace  or  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoon  cloves. 

4  cups  currants. 

1  cup  citron. 

4  cups  raisins. 

Bake  3  hours. 


BLUEBEKRY  OR  HUCKLEBERRY  CAKE. 


1      tablespoon 
(rounding). 

1  cup  sugar, 
f  cup  milk. 

2  eggs. 


butter         2  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

(scant). 
1  cup  berries,  added  last. 


i    cup    butter 
i  cup  lard. 
2  cups  sugar. 
2  eggs,  well  beaten. 


BREAD  CAKE 
added    to 


It  cups  raisms. 

Nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 

2  cups  dough. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

Work  the  cake  thoroughly. 


BUTTERMILK  CAKE. 

1  teaspoon  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  buttermilk.  Spice  to  taste. 

1  egg'  Cheap  and  good. 

CAMERON  CAKE  {Without  Eggs). 

h  cup  butter.  i  teaspoon  soda. 

1^  cups  sugar.  •  2  cups  chopped  raisins. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  Nutmeg   and    cinnamon   to 

3  cups  sifted  flour.  taste. 


LOAF  CAKES  875 

CANADA  CAKE  {Without  Eggs.) 
i  cup  butter.  2i  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  raisins. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  1  teaspoon  soda  in  the  sour 

milk. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  3i  cups  flour. 

2  cups  sugar.  2i  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
1  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

5     eggs     (leaving     out 
whites  of  2). 
Fo^"  frosting  beat  the  whites  of  the  2   eggs   with 
sugar  enough  to  keep  it  from  running,  and  add  i  cake 
of  sweet  chocolate;    flavor   with  vanilla.     Apply   the 
frosting  while  the  cake  is  hot. 

CLOVE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  h  teaspoon  cloves. 

2  cups  brown  sugar.  i  nutmeg. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

1  egg.  1  cup  raisins. 

3  cups  flour.  h  teaspoon  salt. 
1  teaspoon  soda. 

CIDEK  CAKE, 
i  cup  butter.  4  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  cider.  1  cup  raisins. 

1  egg. 

CITRON  CAKE. 
1  cup  butter.  4i  cups  flour. 

3  cups  brown  sugar.  2k  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

H  cups  sweet  milk.  2  cups  citron,  cut  fine. 

7 


COFFEE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  4i  cups  flour. 

2  cups  brown  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  cup  strong  coffee  (cold).    1  cup  raisins  (chopped). 

1  cup  molasses.  2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 

3  eggs.  1  teaspoon  cloves. 


376  LOAF  CAKES 

COLD  WATER  CAKE. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  i  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  cold  water.  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

1  egg. 

CONFEDERATE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour  (level). 

1   cup    pulverized    sugar    1  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

(heaped).  Frost  if  desired. 

6  eggs. 

CORN=STARCH  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter.  4  whites  of  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  cups  corn=starch. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,   then  the 

whites  of  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  mix;  beat  together, 

and  add  the  corn=starch,  a  tablespoon  at  a  time,  beating 

constantly.      Bake  in  a  tin  lined  with  buttered  paper. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  about  1  hour. 

CORN=STARCH  CAKE  No.  2. 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

2  cups  sugar.  .    1  cup  corn=starch. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

4  eggs.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

Sift  soda,  cream  tartar,  corn=starch  and  flour  all 
together;  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients,  and  flavor  with 
1  teaspoon  of  any  flavoring  desired. 

CREAM  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar.  2i  cups  flour. 

1  cup  thick  sour   cream.     1  teaspoon    saleratus    (put 

2  eggs.  into  the  cream). 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

■i  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

lA  cups  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  1  teaspoon  any  flavoring. 
4  whites  of  eggs. 


LOAF  CAKES  377 

DENNISON  CAKE  {Without  Eggs). 

i  cup  butter.  4  cups  flour. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  teaspoon  soda  in  the  milk. 

1  cup  buttermilk.  Spice  to  taste. 

2  cups  raisins. 

DATE  CAKE, 
i  cup  butter.  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

1  cup  sugar,  rounding  full.     1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  i  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

2  eggs.  A  dash  of  nutmeg. 

2i  cups  flour.  1  heaping  cup  of  prepared 

dates. 
Prepare  the  dates  as  directed  in  the  introduction  to 
this  chapter,  and  stir  them  in  the  last   thing.     Bake  in 
a  shallow  pan.     Cut  in  squares  to  serve. 

DOUGH  CAKE, 
i  cup  butter.  1  cup  chopped  raisins  (seed- 

1  cup  sugar.  ed). 

2  eggs.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

1  cup  raised  bread  dough.    A  little  nutmeg. 

i  teaspoon  soda. 

Mix  the  dough  and  butter   thoroughly   with    the 

hand,  then  the  sugar,  then  the  eggs;  add  the  fruit  last. 

Do  not  let  it  stand  to  rise,  but  put  it  in  a  bread  pan  as 

soon  as  mixed  and  bake  for  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

DOUGH  CAKE  {Economical). 

2  lbs.  raised  dough.  1  lb.  raisins  (seeded), 
i  cup  butter.                           i  nutmeg  (grated). 

2  cups  sugar.  1  teaspoon  saleratus. 

Mix  well,  put  in  greased  pans,  let  rise  about  t  hour, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

FKENCH  CAKE. 
f  cup  butter.  3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar,  heaped.  i  nutmeg,  grated. 

1  cup  cream.  f  cup  raisins. 

\  cup  milk.  2  ounces  citron,  chopped. 

6  eggs.  2  ounces  almonds,  pounded. 


378  LOAF  CAKES 

FEATHEK  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  3  cups  flour. 

2  cups  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
I  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  lemon. 

3  eggs. 

This  also  makes  a  nice  layer  cake,  with  jelly  or 
chocolate  between  layers. 

FOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 
1  cup  milk.                              i  teaspoon  soda. 

6  yolks  of  eggs.  1  teaspoon  any  flavoring. 

Mix  the  above;  stir  in  quickly  the  well=beaten  whites 
of  4  of  the  eggs,  reserving  the  whites  of  2  for  the  frost- 
ing.   Bake  in  loaves,  and  as  soon  as  done  cover  with 

frosting. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter.  If  cups  flour. 

k  cup  brown  sugar.  i  teaspoon  soda. 

i  cup  molasses.  1  cup  chopped  raisins, 

i  cup  sweet  milk.  Cinnamon,  citron  and  cloves. 

1  egg.  Flour  the  fruit  before  add- 

ing. 
FRUIT  CAKE  No.  2. 

i  cup  butter.  4  eggs  well  beaten. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

-2-  cup  molasses.  1  cup  raisins  (seeded), 

i  cup  water.  1  cup  currants. 

Flour  to  make  about  as  thick  as  common  stirred 
cake  (not  too  thick).     It  makes  a  large  cake. 

FRUIT  CAKE  No.  3. 
li  cups  butter.  4  cups  currants. 

2  cups  sugar  (heaped).         4  cups  raisins  (seeded). 
1  teaspoon  rose  water.  1  cup  citron. 

Juice  of  2  lemons.  i  cup  almonds. 

10  eggs.  1  tablespoon  of  mace. 

4  cups  flour. 

Flour  the  fruit  and  add  it  last.  Allow  2  hours  to 
bake  if  in  1  loaf. 


LOAF  CAKES  379 

FKUIT  CAKE  {Economical). 

i  cup  butter.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

2i  cups  sugar.  i  teaspoon  each  of  ground 

i  cup  sour  milk.  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nut- 

6  cups  flour  (about  that).  meg. 

1  cup  raisins,  currants  and 
citron,  mixed. 

Knead  all  together,  roll  about  2  inches  thick,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

STEAMED  FKUIT  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter  (full).  6  cups  raisins. 

2    cups     brown     sugar  2  cups  citron, 

(heaped).  1  nutmeg,  grated. 

1  teacup  milk.  i    tablespoon    each   cinna- 
t  cup  molasses.  mon  and  cloves. 

2  eggs.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

4  cups  flour. 

Put  in  a  pan  and  steam  3  hours;  then  place  in  the 
oven  1  hour,  to  dry. 

WHITE  FKUIT  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

2  cups  white  sugar.  1  lb.  almonds,  blanched  and 
1  cup  sweet  milk.  cut  fine. 

5  whites  of  eggs.  1  lb.  citron  cut  in  thin  slices. 
3i  cups  flour.  1  grated  cocoanut. 

GEORGIA  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  3  cups  flour. 

2  cups  sugar.  h  cup  corn=starch. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

4  eggs.  1  teaspoon  any  flavoring. 

GOLD  CAKE. 

h  cup  butter  (scant).  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

J  cup  sweet  milk.  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 
4  yolks  of  eggs. 


380  LOAF  CAKES 

GRAHAM  CAKE. 
i  cup  butter.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  sugar.  i  cup  raisins  (seeded). 

1  cup  sour  milk.  i  nutmeg,  grated. 
3h  cups  graham  flour. 

GROOM'S  CAKE. 

2  cups  butter  (heaped).         2  cups  raisins  (seeded). 

2  cups  white  sugar  (heap-     2    lbs.     almonds,    blanched 

ed).  and  chopped. 

10  eggs.  h  lb.  citron,  shaved  fine. 

4  cups  flour. 

Stir  the  almonds  into  the  cake;  flour  the  raisins 
and  citron  and  put  a  layer  in  the  cake  pan,  then  put  in 
a  layer  of  cake,  then  fruit  again,  and  so  on  alternately, 
finishing  with  cake.     Bake  2  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

HASTY  CAKE. 

1  tablespoon  butter.  1  egg. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar.  2  cups  flour. 

i  cup  milk.  3   small   teaspoons    baking 

powder. 

Bake  immediately  in  a  quick  oven;  it  may  be  baked 

in  patty  tins  or  in  a  loaf.    Nice  while  fresh. 

HICKORY  NUT  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter.  li  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
h  cup  sweet  milk.  1   cup   hickory    nut    meats 

2  eggs.  (chopped). 

Add  the  nickory  nut  meats  last.  Frost  it  when 
baked,  mark  in  squares,  and  put  a  nut  meat  in  each 
square. 

ICE  CREAM  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  sifted  flour. 

2  Clips  sugar.  1  cup  corn= starch. 

1  cup  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

8  whites  of  eggs. 


LOAF  CAKES  381 

IMPEKIAL  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter  (heaped).  2  cups  flour  (level). 

1  cup  sugar  (heaped).  i  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice.        1  cup  raisins. 

i  the  grated  rind  of  1  lem-    i  cup  walnuts  (chopped), 
on.  5  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  li  hours.     Flour  the  fruit 
with  a  scant  tablespoon  of  flour  extra. 
LEMON  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter.  2  to  2h  cups  flour. 

li  cups  sugar.  1  lemon,  (juice  and  grated 

i  cup  sweet  milk.  rind). 

3  eggs.  i  teaspoon  soda. 

MAEBLE  CAKE. 

LIGHT   PAET. 

i  cup  butter.  4  whites  of  eggs. 

Ih  cups  white  sugar.  2  cups  flour. 

i  cup  sour  milk.  A  teaspoon  soda. 

i  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

DAEK   PAET. 

i  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  1  teaspoon  soda, 

i  cup  sour  milk.  i  teaspoon  allspice. 

i  cup  molasses.  1  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

5  yolks  of  eggs.  1  teaspoon   each  of  cinna- 

mon and  cloves. 

Put  alternate  spoonfuls  of  each  part  into  a  butter- 
ed cake  tin  and  bake  slowlj^ 

CHOCOLATE  MAEBLE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  1  cup  corn=starch. 

2  cups  sugar.  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

4  eggs.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2  cups  flour. 

After  mixing  all,  take  out  1  cupful  of  the  batter 
and  stir  into  it  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  grated  choco- 
late; drop  this  in  the  greased  pan  alternately  with  the 
other  part. 


382  LOAF  CAKES 

MOLASSES  CAKE  ( Without  Eggs). 
1  cup  butter,  lard  or  drip-    5  cups  flour. 

ping.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  Zante  currants. 

1  cup  hot  water.  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinna- 

1  cup  molasses.  mon,  cloves  and  allspice. 

Put  in  2  bread=pans,  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake 
an  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

ONE  EGG  CAKE. 
1  cup  butter.  3  cups  flour. 

H  cups  sugar.  H  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  1  cup  chopped  raisins. 

1  egg. 

MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 
i  cup  butter.  2  large  cups  flour. 

Ih  cups  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

h  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  of  any  flavoring. 

3  eggs.  Fruit  if  desired. 

Add  a  little  more  flour  if  any  fruit  is  added. 
OKANGE  CAKE. 
i  cup  butter.  4  whites  of  eggs. 

2  cups  sugar.  2  cups  flour. 

i  cup  water.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

5  yolks  of  eggs.  1  orange,  (juice  and  grated 

rind). 

PLUM  CAKE. 

1  large  cup  butter.  i  lb.  dates. 

2  cups  sugar  (heaped).         i  teaspoon  each  mace   and 
12  eggs,  beaten  separately.        cloves. 

4  cups  sifted  flour.  1  teaspoon  each   cinnamon 
1   lb.   citron   cut  in    thin        and  allspice. 

slices.    _  i  nutmeg,  grated. 

3  lbs.  raisins,  stoned  and    3    tablespoons     strawberry 
halved.  jam  added  last. 

Ih  lbs.  currants. 

Flour  the  fruit  before  adding  it;  beat  the  mixture 
thoroughly,  and  bake  in  well=buttered  tins  4  hours,  keep- 
ing a  steady  heat. 


LOAF  CAKES  383 

POOK  MAN'S  CAKE. 

1  tablespoon  butter.  1  cup  raisins. 

1  cup  sugar.  1    teaspoon    saleratus    dis- 

2  cups  flour.  solved  in 

1  cup  sour  milk. 

POKK  CAKE. 

1  cup  boiling  water  pour-  1  cup  molasses. 

ed  over  1  lb.  raisins. 

1  lb.  fat  pork,  chopped  fine.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  cups  sugar.  Spices  to  taste. 

Stir  in  flour  until  quite  stiff,  and  bake  slov^ly. 

POUND  CAKE. 

1  lb.  butter.  1  lb.  flour. 

1  lb.  v^hite  sugar.  *  teaspoon  mace. 

12  eggs,  beaten  separately.  1  nutmeg,  grated. 

3  tablespoons  rose=v7ater.  Beat  eggs  very  thoroughly. 

QUICK  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter.  2  eggs. 

i  cup  sugar.  li  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

i  cup  sweet  milk. 

Add  flour  until  it  will  not  drop  from   the    spoon. 
Can  be  eaten  warm. 

RAISED  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  raisins. 

2  eggs.  Spice  to  taste. 

1  cup  sponge.  Let  rise  2  hours. 

i  cup  flour. 

RAISIN  CAKE  {Economical). 

T  cup  butter.  i  teaspoon  soda. 

i  cup  sugar.  1  cup  raisins, 

i  cup  hot  water.  1  teaspoon  each    cinnamon 

i  cup  molasses.  and  cloves. 

1  egg.  Flour  to  make  stiff  enough 

to  hold  a  spoon. 


884  LOAF  CAKES 

RAISIN  CAKE, 

1  cup  butter.  4  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar.  3i  cups  flour. 

1  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  molasses.  Juice  of  1  lemon. 

1  teaspoon  rose=water.  2  cups  seeded  raisins. 

SILVER  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  3  cups  flour. 

2  cups  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
1  scant  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

5  whites  of  eggs. 

Cover  with  white  frosting.  This  cake  is  sometimes 
baked  in  small  round  tins  and  called  "  Snow  Cake." 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar.        1  saltspoon  salt. 

6  eggs,  beaten  separate.  ^  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
1  cup  flour.  of  a  lemon. 

After  baking,  while  hot,  dredge  powdered  sugar  on 

top. 

SPONGE  CAKE  No.  2. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  flour. 

3  tablespoons  of  water.  li  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

2  eggs.  1  teaspoon  flavoring. 

BERWICK  SPONGE  CAKE. 

6  eggs.  1  cup  water. 

3  cups  granulated  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baling  powder. 
5  cups  flour.  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1 
1  saltspoon  of  salt.  lemon. 

Beat  the  eggs  2  minutes;  add  the  sugar  and  beat 
5  minutes;  then  2  cups  of  flour  and  beat  2  minutes;  add 
the  water,  lemon  juice  and  peel  with  the  salt  and  beat  1 
minute.  Have  the  baking  powder  mixed  with  the 
remaining  3  cups  of  flour,  add  and  beat  1  minute.  Bake 
slowly  I  hour  in  2  deep  bread  pans. 


LOAF  CAKES  385 

COOOANUT  SPONGE  CAKE. 

6  eggs,  beaten  separately.    1  teaspoon  lemon  essence. 
1  cup  sugar,  heaped.  i  nutmeg,  grated. 

1  cup  flour.  Grated  cocoanut. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Put  it  about  i  inch  deep  in  tins  lined  with  well= 
buttered  paper.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  30  min- 
utes. 

COKN^STAKCH  SPONGE  CAKE. 

1  cup  pulverized  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

i  cup  flour.  8  whites  of  eggs,  well  beat- 
i  cup  corn=starch.  en. 

1  teaspoon  of  flavoring. 

Mix  the  flour,  sugar,  corn-starch  and  baking  pow- 
der together  dry,  sifting  all  several  times,  and  stirring 
thoroughly;  then  add  the  eggs  and  lemon  flavor,  and 
bake  immediately.  It  is  best  baked  in  a  long  deep  pan. 
— It  also  makes  an  excellent  roll  jelly  cake;  this  quan- 
tity is  enough  for  2  large  rolls;  bake  in  long  shallow 
tins;  as  soon  as  done,  remove  on  a  clean  cloth,  spread 
with  jelly,  and  roll  up  at  once. 

CKEAM  SPONGE  CAKE. 

2  eggs,  broken  into       ,         2  cups  sifted  flour. 

1  teacup  of  cream.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  cup  white  sugar.  1  teaspoon  of  flavoring. 
A  pinch  of  salt. 

Beat  together  for  5  or  10  minutes.     Bake  in   a 

square  baking  tin  about  i  hour. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter  (scant).  21  cups  flour. 

2  cups  brown  sugar.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 

2  yolks  of  eggs.  1  teaspoon  allspice. 
I  white  of  egg.  i  teaspoon  cloves. 

h  nutmeg,  grated. 

25 


386  LOAF  CAKES 

SUNSHINE  CAKE. 
1  cup  granulated  sugar.        |  cup  of  flour. 
Whites  of  7  small  eggs.        i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 
Yolks  of  5  small  eggs.  A  pinch  of  salt. 

Beat  yolks;  beat  whites  about  half,  add  cream  of 
tartar  and  beat  until  very  stiff;  stir  the  sugar  in  lightly, 
then  stir  beaten  yolks  in  thoroughly;  add  flour  last. 
Put  in  a  tube  pan,  if  you  have  it,  and  bake  35  to  50 
minutes,  in  a  slow  oven. 

TENNESSEE  CAKE. 
i  cup  butter.  1     full     teaspoon     baking 

1  cup  sugar.  powder, 

i  cup  milk.  1  cup  currants. 

li  cups  flour.  A  few  slices  citron. 

Cloves  and  nutmeg. 

Bake  in  sheets,  ice,  and  cut  in  squares. 
TROY  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter.  5  whites  of  eggs. 

li  cups  sugar.  3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Divide  the  mixture  and  color  i  with  strawberry 
coloring,  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  flavor  the  other  part 
with  lemon.  Put  in  the  white,  then  the  pink  part,  and 
bake  slowly. 

WEDDING  CAKE. 

4  full  cups  butter.  18  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

4  cups  white  sugar,  heaped.  4  cups  flour. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  teaspoon  saleratus. 
Juice  of  2  lemons.  i  cup  citron   cut  thin  and 
3  tablespoons   cloves  small. 

(ground).  4  cups  seedless  raisins. 

2  tablespoons     each     of    4  cups  currants, 
mace,  allspice  and  nut- 
meg. 

Cream  the  butter  and  add  the  sugar,  then  the 
molasses,  lemon  and  spices,  then  the  beaten  yolks,  beat- 
ing all  well  together,  then  the  flour  with  saleratus  sifted 


LOAF  CAKES  387 

in,  and  last  the  beaten  whites;  beat  all  together  thor- 
oughly. Flour  the  fruit  and  add  last.  Bake  slowly  4 
hours,  or  longer  if  needed.  The  cake  will  keep  for 
years. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

h  cup  butter.  H  cups  flour. 

1  cup  white  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

i  cup  sweet  milk.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  va- 

3  whites  of  eggs.  nilla. 

WATERMELON  CAKE. 

i  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

h  cup  sweet  milk.  i  teaspoon  soda. 

3  whites  of  eggs.  Flavor  with  lemon. 

Take  a  little  more  than  i  of  the  mixture  and  to  it 
add  1  teaspoon  liquid  cochineal  and  i  cup  raisins.  Put 
the  red  part  in  the  center  and  bake.  Cover  with  a 
frosting  colored  green  with  spinach. 

WHITE  CAKE  {Without  Eggs). 

3  tablespoons  nice  fat.  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar.        1  teaspoon  soda. 
1  cup  milk.  Nutmeg    or    any    flavoring 

2i  cups  flour.  desired. 

Add  raisins  or  currants  if  liked;  bake  in  a  rather 
slow  oven.    It  resembles  old  fashioned  election  cake. 

WHITE  PERFECTION  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  3  cups  flour. 

3  cups  powdered  sugar.         1  cup  corn=starch. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  2i  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

12  whites  of  eggs. 

Caramel  Icing. — Take  2  cups  powdered  sugar,  f 
cup  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Boil  10  min- 
utes, and  stir  while  boiling;  then  set  the  dish  in  cold 
water,  stir  until  cold  and  spread  on. 


388  LOAF  CAKES 

WHOKTLEBERKY    CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon 

5  eggs.  and  nutmeg. 

3  cups  flour.  4  cups  fresh  whortleberries. 

Be  careful  not  to  bruise  the  berries;  flour  them  and 

add  last.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

GINGER  CAKE  {Without  Eggs). 

i  cup  butter.  5  cups  sifted  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  milk.  1  tablespoon  ginger. 

1  cup  molasses.  A  little  cloves  if  liked. 

Melt  the  butter  and  molasses  in  the  sugar,  allow 
the  mixture  to  become  hot,  and  then  add  spices,  milk 
with  soda,  and  flour.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  try  a  small 
cake  first,  and  if  it  falls  add  more  flour. 

GINGERBREAD. 
i  cup  butter.  3  cups  flour. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  tablespoon  baking  powder. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  1  teaspoon  ginger. 

2  eggs. 

Bake  in  a  thin  sheet,  and  while  hot  sprinkle  granu- 
lated sugar  on  top.  Cut  in  squares.  (See  our  article 
on  "Frosting  and  Icing  "  for  the  method  of  glazing  gin- 
gerbread). 

HARD  GINGERBREAD. 

f  cup  shortening.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  molasses.  i  teaspoon  salt. 

1  teaspoon  ginger.  Flour  enough  to  roll  out  like 

pie=crust. 

HARD  GINGERBREAD  No.  2. 
i  cup  butter.  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

1  cup  sugar.  powder. 

2  eggs.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  teaspoon  ground  ginger.     Flour  to  roll  out. 

Mix  hard,  and  roll  thin.  Bake  in  a  large  dripping 
pan  if  you  have  not  sheets  of  tin. 


LOAF  CAKES  389 

HAKD  GINGEKBREAD  ( Without  Eggs). 
i  cup  butter.  1  teaspoon  ground  ginger. 

1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved    1  level  teaspoon  salt. 
in  1  cup  molasses. 

h  cup  water.  Flour  to  roll  out. 

Mix  hard  and  roll  thin,  and  bake  as  above. 
HOT  WATER  GINGERBREAD. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  1  large  cup  flour. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  tablespoons  sour  milk.       i  teaspoon  ginger, 
i  cup  hot  v^ater. 

ORMSKIRK  GINGERBREAD. 
1  cup  butter  (heaped).  5  level  cups  flour. 

1  cup  brown  sugar  i  nutmeg  (grated).     ' 

(heaped).  1  cup  molasses. 

1  tablespoon  ginger  i  cup  citron  (cut  fine). 

(heaped). 

Work  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  molasses, 
flour  and  ginger,  grate  in  the  nutmeg,  and  stir  in  the 
citron.  Let  the  dough  stand  over  night;  then  roll  thin, 
cut  in  shapes  with  a  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  It  makes  a  delicious  hard  gingerbread. 
SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg.     1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
1  cup  molasses.  1  cup  of  water. 

1  teaspoon  ginger.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  stiff  with  flour  and  bake  in  a  square  tin. 
SOUR  CREAM  GINGERBREAD 

h  cup  shortening  (part  1  egg. 

butter  and  part  meat         1  teaspoon  soda. 

dripping).  1  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  tablespoon      ginger      (or 

L  cup  thick  sour  cream.  more  to  suite  taste). 

Stir  all  together,  dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  water, 
use  flour  enough  to  make  a  medium  stiff  batter,  but  not 
too  stiff  as  that  will  spoil  the  effect.  Bake  in  a  good 
sized  dripping  pan  so  the  cake  will  be  Ih  inch  thick. 


390  LOAF  CAKES 

KICH  SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 

1  cup  butter.  2  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  small  cup  molasses.  1  teaspoon  each  of   ginger 

and  salt. 

Make  a  stiff  dough  with  flour,  and  bake  in  a  square 
tin. 

RAISIN  GINGERBREAD. 

3  eggs.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  teaspoon  of  soda. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  1  cup  chopped  raisins. 

Spice  to  taste. 

SPICE  GINGERBREAD. 

1  cup  butter.  3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  molasses.  i  cup  of  dried  currants. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  Ginger,     cinnamon,    cloves 

4  eggs.  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Bake  in  square  tins. 

SOUR  MILK  GINGERBREAD. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

i  cup  molasses.  1  level  teaspoon  soda. 

i  cup  sour  milk.  1  level      teaspoon     ground 

1  egg.  ginger. 

Bake  in  a  flat  tin,  not  as  a  loaf. 

SUGAR  GINGERBREAD. 
h  cup  butter.  li  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  level  teaspoon  salt. 

i  cup  sour  milk.  1  heaping  teaspoon  ground 

2  eggs.  ginger. 

Mix  hard  and  roll  thin.     Bake  on  sheets  of  tin  or  in 
the  dripping  pan. 


FROSTING  AND  ICING  391 

FROSTING  AND  ICING. 

Frosting  or  icing  made  from  the  beaten  white  of  egg  and  sugar, 
serves  for  all  kinds  of  ornamentation,  both  for  cakes  and  pastry. 
The  eggs  can  be  beaten  in  a  flat  dish,  with  a  fork,  until  stifp,  and 
then  the  sugar  added,  and  then  the  flavoring;  or  the  sugar  and  eggs 
can  be  beaten  together.  Frosting  cannot  be  made  satisfactorily  un- 
less the  sugar  used  is  the  powdered  kind,  made  expressly  for  this 
purpose.  The  proportions  are  1  egg,  to  ^  of  a  cup,  or  10  heaping 
teaspoons,  of  sugar.  If  an  acid  flavor  like  lemon  is  used,  a  little 
more  sugar  will  be  needed;  the  size  of  the  egg  must  also  be  consid- 
ered. If  an  insufficient  quantity  of  sugar  is  used  icing  will  not  hard- 
en. A  little  sweet  cream,  lemon=juice  or  \^inegar  softens  icing  so 
that  it  crumbles  less  readily.  The  egg  and  sugar  must  be  thoroughly 
beaten,  some  insisting  on  30  minutes  beating  and  others  on  only  5 
minutes.  If  the  eggs  do  not  beat  readily  a  pinch  of  salt  can  be 
added,  which  will  help  some.  Have  the  frosting  all  beaten  and 
ready  before  the  cake  comes  out  of  the  oven.  The  frosting  should 
be  put  on  while  the  cake  is  warm,  but  not  while  it  is  hot  If  there 
are  several  cakes,  and  some  of  them  cool  while  the  others  are  being 
iced,  they  can  be  set  in  the  oven  and  warmed  before  being  frosted. 
A  heavy  frosting  put  directly  on  to  a  cake  will  inevitably  peel  on  ac- 
count of  the  moisture  or  oiliness  of  the  cake.  A  little  flour  dusted 
on  a  cake  and  then  the  loose  particles  rubbed  ofP  is  a  good  preventative 
against  the  cracking  of  the  frosting;  or  a  little  gelatine  dissolved  in 
boiling  water  and  applied  hot  is  sometimes  used.  An  inverted  milk= 
pan  is  a  good  thing  on  which  to  set  the  cake  while  applying  the 
frosting.  Dip  the  knife  often  in  cold  water  if  the  frosting  is  stiff, 
and  smooth  it  off  nicely.  If  it  is  desired  to  frost  the  top  only,  strips 
of  paper,  well  oiled,  can  be  pinned  around  the  cake,  extending  above 
the  top,  to  prevent  the  icing  from  running  down  the  sides;  and  re- 
moved when  it  cools.  After  icing,  the  cake  can  be  set  in  a  very  cool 
oven  to  dry  and  harden  for  a  short  time,  but  do  not  let  the  top  be- 
come colored;  or  set  it  in  the  warm  sun.  If  nuts,  raisins,  or  similar 
articles  are  put  on  for  ornaments  they  should  be  added  while  the 
icing  is  moist.  Piping  is  done  when  the  icing  is  dry.  All  iced  cakes 
should  be  kept  in  a  very  dry  place. 

It  will  please  a  child  when  making  cake  to  make  a  small  one  for 
her;  cover  with  white  frosting,  and  when  that  hardens,  write  the 
child's  name  on  top  with  a  small  brush  dipped  in  the  yolk  of  egg. 
Children  will  be  more  pleased  with  some  simple  cake,  not  much  more 
than  sweetened  bread,  and  ornamented  for  them,  than  they  would  be 


392  CAKES 

by  the  richest  phim  cake  unornamented,  and  which  they  could  not 
eat  with  safety. 

Any  frosting  left  over  can  be  made  into  little  wafers,  dried  in  the 
oven,  and  used  for  decorating  various  dishes. 

COLOKS  FOR  FROSTINGS,  CANDIES,  ETC. 

A  Caution. — Nothing  but  vegetable  colors  should  ever  be  used  for 
frostings,  candies,  or  any  cooking  purposes.  As  some  of  the  coloring 
matters  sold  in  the  stores  (and  too  often  used  by  the  uninformed) 
are  deleterious  or  even  poisonous,  it  is  better,  when  possible,  to  pre- 
pare all  coloring  matters  at  home.  We  give  the  best  of  those  which 
are  adapted  for  domestic  use,  and  they  will  meet  all  the  ordinary 
wants  of  our  readers. 

To  Whiten  Frosting. — A  few  drops  of  lemon= juice  whitens  frosting; 
BO  does  .a  small  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar. 

For  an  Amber  Coloring  Mixture  put  f  oz.  turmeric  in  2  oz.  deodor- 
ized alcohol;  shake  till  dissolved,  strain  it,  and  bottle  for  use. 

Blue  Frosting  is  colored  with  indigo.  It  does  for  ornamental 
icing,  but  is  better  not  eaten. 

Brown  Frosting  may  be  made  by  adding  caramel  to  gelatine  frost- 
ing; or  by  beating  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  nice  maple  sugar. 

For  Chocolate  Color  add  a  little  chocolate  or  cocoa. 

Pink  Frosting  may  be  made  by  adding  cranberry,  strawberry,  or 
raspberry  juice  from  which  the  seeds  have  been  strained;  the  jelly 
can  also  be  strained  and  used,  or  a  little  cochineal  will  produce  the 
color. 

Yellow  Frosting  may  be  made  by  adding  a  trifle  of  strong  saffron 
tea  (if  to  much  is  used  it  is  apt  to  impart  a  bitter  taste).  Or  grate 
the  rind  of  an  orange  into  some  orange  juice,  let  it  soak  about  1 
hour;  strain,  and  use  for  coloring.  Lemon  peel  can  be  used  in  the 
same  way.  (These  are  preferable  to  the  saffron.  See  what  we  say 
in  the  introduction  to  our  article  on  cakes  about  how  to  grate  orange 
peel.) 

A  Very  Pretty  Tint  for  frosting  white  cakes  is  made  by  beating  to- 
gether 1  cup  of  white  sugar  and  the  yolks,  of  3  eggs;  flavor  with 
lemon. 

Carmine  Color  can  be  made  by  mixing  1^  oz.  boiling  water,  |  oz. 
ammonia,  and  ^  oz.  No.  40  carmine;  bottle,  cork  closely,  and  it  will 
keep  any  length  of  time. 

Cochineal  Coloring — In  1  cup  hot  water  dissolve  1  teaspoon  cream 
of  tartar,  1  teaspoon  powdered  alum,  and  2  teaspoons  powdered  coch- 
ineal; boil  5  minutes,  strain  through  cloth,  and  bottle  for  use.  Add- 
ing a  little  alcohol  will  make  it  keep  any  length  of  time. 


FROSTING  AND  ICING  393 

A  Red  Color  for  confectionery,  jellies,  etc.,  is  sometimes  prepared 
by  boiling  sliced  beetroot  in  a  little  water,  and  then  squeezing  it 
through  a  cloth. 

Saffron. — Boil  thoroughly  1  oz.  of  saffron  in  2  cups  of  water; 
strain  through  cloth  and  bottle  for  use.  In  using  this,  the  shade 
may  be  varied  by  using  more  or  less  of  it.  (The  objection  to  saffron 
is  its  tendency  to  impart  a  bitter  taste  if  too  much  is  used). 

Spinach  Green. — Carefully  trim  the  leaves  from  some  young 
spinqich,  wash  them,  pound  them  to  a  pulp,  add  a  little  water,  and 
boil  till  it  curdles;  then  strain.  This  juice  can  be  used  fresh,  or  it 
can  be  worked  up  into  colored  sugar,  and  kept  for  future  use. 

Coloring  Almonds. — Almonds  can  be  given  a  yellow  color  by  split- 
ting them  in  two  after  blanching,  and  putting  them  in  the  oven  till 
they  get  a  light  golden  tinge.  They  can  be  tinged  pink  or  red  with 
cochineal  mixed  with  a  little  syrup,  rubbing  the  almonds  in  it,  and 
drying  them  in  a  cool  oven.  Gi'een  coloring  is  produced  in  the  same 
way  with  spinach  green.  Only  vegetable  colorings  should  be  used 
for  this  purpose. 

Coloring  Sugar — Dry  granulated  sugar  can  be  tinted  by  working 
in  enough  of  the  desired  tint  to  color  the  sugar;  then  dry  the  sugar, 
powder  it,  and  bottle  for  use. 

Flavoring  Sugar  is  done  in  various  ways.  It  can  be  pounded, 
adding  the  flavoring  during  the  process;  then  sift  through  a  fine 
sieve,  and  bottle  for  use.  For  1  lb.  of  sugar,  2  oz.  of  either  lemon  or 
orange  peel  will  be  sufiicient.  Other  flavors  can  be  obtained  by 
using  instead,  1  oz.  of  ginger,  or  2  oz.  of  cinnamon,  or  ^  oz.  of  cloves. 
We  have  previously  explained  how  to  prepare  vanilla  sugar. 

Prepared  Caramel.— Caramel  is  crystallized  sugar  heated  to  420° 
F.  when  it  decomposes,  loses  its  power  of  crystallizing  and  ferment- 
ing, and  acquires  a  dark  brown  color  and  a  bitter  flavor.  It  can  be 
prepared  as  follows:  Put  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar  in  the  frying^^ 
pan,  add  1  tablespoon  of  water,  and  heat  it  over  a  clear  fire,  stirring 
continually,  till  it  assumes  a  dark  brown  color,  is  brittle,  and  bitter 
to  the  taste,  but  do  not  burn  it.  Then  add  slowly  2  cups  hot  water, 
stir  constantly,  and  boil  10  minutes  and  let  it  cool.  If  it  candies 
when  cool,  add  water  and  boil  again.  Bottle  when  cold,  keep  corked, 
and  it  will  never  spoil.  It  is  used  to  flavor  or  color  custards,  sauces, 
soups,  broths,  gravies,  etc  and  has  so  many  uses  that  it  is  well  to 
always  keep  it  on  hand. 

FROSTING    AND    ICING. 

PLAIN  FROSTING — Beat  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  gradually 
work  in  1  cup  powdered  sugar  and  2  teaspoons  corn-starch.  Use  any 
flavoring  preferred. 


394  CAKES 

ALMOND  FROSTING.— Make  like  raisin  frosting,  but  use  1  cup 

blanched  sweet  almonds  instead  of  the  raisins. 

BOILED  FROSTING,— The  white  of  1  egg,  1  cup  granulated 
sugar.  Beat  the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  just  enough  boiling  water 
on  the  sugar  to  melt  it;  then  boil  to  a  thick  syrup;  pour  the  boiling 
syrup  over  the  beaten  egg,  and  beat  until  it  is  thoroughly  mixed. 
Add  flavor.  Pour  over  the  cake  while  hot.  If  too  much  boiled,  the 
.tendency  of  the  frosting  will  be  to  dry  before  it  cools,  but  1  or  2 
drops  of  hot  water  added  while  using  will  remedy  it. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING — Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  stir  in  1  teacup  of  pulverized  sugar  and  6  tablespoons  of  grated 
chocolate;  mix  well,  and  spread  on  while  the  cake  is  hot. 

BOILED  CHOCOLATE  FROSTING — Boil  together  1  cup  of 
light  brown  sugar  and  |  cup  of  water.  Remove  it  from  the  stove  as 
soon  as  it  strings  from  the  spoon,  and  stir  in  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  together  with  ^  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate, 
finely  grated.  Spread  this  between  the  layers  and  on  top  while  the 
frosting  is  warm. 

EASILY^MADE  FROSTING.— Allow  a  full  half  cup  of  pulver- 
ized sugar  to  the  white  of  1  egg,  stirring  it  in  instead  of  beating  the 
egg;  spread  it  smoothly  over  the  cake  and  set  away  to  dry  and  you 
will  find  that  the  icing  made  in  this  way  will  cut  -without  breaking, 
and  be  smoother  than  when  beaten  in  the  old  way.  The  icing  made 
from  the  white  of  1  egg  is  enough  for  an  ordinary  sized  cake. 
Flavor,  if  desired,  to  suit  the  taste. 

GELATINE  FROSTING — One  teaspoon  gelatine  put  to  soak  in 
1^  tablespoons  of  cold  water,  and  allowed  to  stand  till  it,  becomes  a 
little  soft.  Now  add  2  tablespoons  boiling  water,  and  let  the  mix- 
ture boil  a  minute.  Soak  it  in  a  cup  in  which  it  can  boil.  Measure, 
and  pour  upon  a  large  plate,  and  to  every  tablespoon  of  the  liquid 
add  4  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar  rolled  and  sifted  to  free  it  from 
lumps.  Beat  well,  as  the  longer  it  is  beaten  the  lighter  and  whiter  it 
becomes.  Flavor  with  1  teaspoon  of  any  extract.  Have  the  cake 
cold.  This  quantity  is  enough  for  2  pies  or  1  loaf  of  cake.  It  can 
be  put  on  very  thick,  will  not  crumble,  cuts  as  well  as  the  cake  itself, 
and  is  not  sticky. 

ISINGLASS  FROSTING.— Pour  1  co£fee=cup  of  hot  water  on  1 
sheet  isinglass,  then  leave  it 'to  dissolve  in  a  warm  place.  When 
quite  dissolved,  and  there  is  no  scum,  stir  in  1  large  teaspoon  corn= 
starch  and  2  heaping  cups  of  pulverized  sugar.     Pour  it  on  the  cakes 


FKOSTINa  AND  ICING  395 

when  they  are  cold,  do  not  smooth  it  much,  and  let  it  harden  in  a 
cool  place.     More  easily  made  than  the  ordinary  frosting. 

MAPLE  FROSTING — This  is  made  by  adding  the  beaten  white 
of  1  egg  to  1  cup  of  good  maple  syrup;  or  use  granulated  maple 
sugar  instead. 

MILK  FROSTING — Boil  together  2  cups  sugar,  |  cup  of  milk, 
and  1  tablespoon  of  butter  for  10  minutes;  remove  from  the  stove, 
and  beat  until  creamy  and  thick  enough  to  spread.  Add  |  teaspoon 
of  any  flavoring, 

RAISIN  FROSTING.— Put  1  cup  white  sugar  in  2  tablespoons 
warm  water,  and  boil  5  minutes;  pour  it  over  the  beaten  white  of  1 
egg,  and  beat  well;  then  add  1  cup  chopped  raisins. 

SOFT  FROSTING — Take  1  cup  sugar  and  ^  cup  milk,  and  boil 
until  it  will  drop  in  strings  from  the  spoon ;  then  put  in  a  bowl,  add 
1  teaspoon  of  flour,  and  beat  a  few  minutes;  let  stand  until  cool,  and 
thick  enough  to  spread  on  cake  without  running. 

BOILED  ICING — Stir  1  cup  granulated  sugar  in  1  cup  water, 
and  set  on  the  stove  to  boil;  do  not  stir  after  it  begins  to  boil;  test  it 
with  a  cold  spoon,  and  when  it  ''  threads  "  by  holding  the  spoon  high 
and  letting  the  syrup  fall  back  very  slowly  into  the  sauce-pan,  take  it 
from  the  fire;  add  the  beated  white  of  1  egg  to  the  hot  syrup,  and 
beat  5  minutes.     Add  flavoring.     Spread  on  the  cake  while  warm. 

COFFEE  ICING  is  made  by  stirring  confectioner's  sugar  into 
strong  coffee  set  on  the  stove  till  it  is  heated;  put  it  on  the  cake 
while, warm. 

ORANGE  ICING. — Squeeze  the  juice  of  an  orange  over  the 
grated  rind,  and  let  it  stand  an  hour;  then  strain  the  juice;  add  to  it 
a  coffee=cup  of  confectioner's  sugar  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  then 
beat  until  stiff  enough  to  spread  on  the  cake. 

ICING  COOKIES,  ETC. — Before  putting  in  the  oven,  dredge  or 
sprinkle  sugar'-gingerhread,  cooJdes,  and  other  small  cakes  not  to  be 
frosted,  with  fine  sugar,  and  it  will  give  a  rich  brown  glaze,  and  add 
much  to  their  flavor. 

OKNAMENTAL  ICING. 

Many  people  imagine  that  it  requires  a  great  deal  of  practice  and 
special  skill  to  do  anything  of  this  kind,  but  those  who  have  never 
tried  it  will  be  surprised  to  find  what  pretty  effects  can  be  produced 
with  the  simplest  materials.  All  that  is  needed  is  a  paper  cone, 
which  is  easily  made,  and  a  little  icing- 


CAKES 


Paper  cones  for  icing  can  be  made  as  follows:  Cut  a  sheet  of 
rather  stiff  pajDer  so  as  to  get  a  triangular  sheet  as  shown  in  Fig.  1, 
having  it  about  10  inches  from  1  to  2,  and  5  inches  from  1  to  3.  Di- 
vide the  hypothenuse,  2,  3,  into  3  equal  parts  at  5  and  4.  Then  fold 
over  the  paper  to  make  creases  in  it  as  shown  by  the  dotted  lines 
from  1  to  5  and  5  to  P,  and  also  from  6  to  4.  Then  take  the  point  3 
between  the  finger  and  thumb  of  the  left  hand,  with  the  point  3  up- 
ward and  the  long  side  1,  2,  towards  you,  and  taking  the  poiiit  2  be- 
tween the  thumb  and  finger  of  the  right  hand  roll  the  paper  around 
the  fingers  of  the  left  hand  so  as  to  form  a  cone,  the  apex  of  which 
will  be  at  5,  and  the  crease  5,  P,  overlaps  the  crease  5,  1.  This  will 
leave  the  long  point  2,  4,  6,  projecting  above  the  cone,  and  it  can 
be  turned  down  into  the  center,  bringing  the  point  2  down  to  the 
apex;  and  this  will  hold  the  cone  in  shape,  as  seen  in  Fig,  2.  The 
point  is  then  cut  off  and  the  icing  passes  out  of  the  opening  thus 
made.  The  amount  cut  off  regulates  the  size  of  the  hole,  and 
therefore  the  size  of  the  stream  of  icing  which  will  come  through. 
Little  brass  tubes  are 
made  for  this  purpose, 
which  can  be  bought  if 
desired  for  a  few  cents 
each.  The  end  of  the 
cone  is  cut  off,  and  the 
tube  dropped  into  the 
cone,  projecting  a  little 
as  shown  by  the  dark 
end  in  Fig.  3.  It  is 
best  to  make  6  or  8 
cones  at  a  time,  as  the 
icing  softens  the  paper, 
and  for  this  reason  a 
rather  stiff  paper  is 
needed. 

To  Use  the  Cone  it  is 
filled  about  |-  to  |  full 
of  icing,  and  the  sides  of  the  top  are  folded  in  over  each  other  in 
such  a  way  as  to  hold  in  the  icing,  as  shown  inFig.  3.  In 
using  the  cone  it  is  grasped  by  the  thumb  and  fore-finger  of  the 
left  hand  a  little  ways  up  from  the  apex,  while  the  right  hand 
holds  the  top  and  the  right  thumb  rests  over  the  center  or  top,  and 
forces  out  the  icing  by  a  slight  pressure.  The  icing  or  frosting 
which  is  used  is  simply  the  white  of  egg  beaten  up  with  sugar  as 


Fiy.3. 


^9  1 

PAPEB    CONE    FOR    PIPING    OK   OENAMENTAL    ICING. 


FKOSTING  AND  ICING 


397 


minf^nfimri 


we  have  explained  for  frosting.  It  can  be  variously  colored  as 
desired.  The  frosting  on  the  cake  should  be  cold  when  this  orna- 
mental work  is  applied.      This  sort  of  decoration  is  termed  piping. 

If  the  icing  gets  too  thin,  add  more  sugar;  if  too  thick,  add  a 
little  more  beaten  egg;  it  can  be  kept  from  drying  while  being  used 
by  laying  a  wet  cloth  over  the  bowl  containing  it. 

Piping  or  ornamental 
frosting  admits  of  endlessly 
varied  designs  and  effects. 
It  is  best  to  begin  with 
some  simple  design.  It 
can  be  drawn  on  paper,  a 

piece  of  glass  laid  over  it,  -pxa.  4. 

and  then  let  the  nozzle  of 
the  cone  trace  the  design 
while  the  icing  is  steadily 
pressed  out  by  the  thumb 
at  the  top.  Then  the  glass 
can  be  cleaned  off  and  an-  ^^^  ^ 

other  trial  made.     In  this 

way  very  rapid  progress  can  be  make,  and  any  one  can  speedily  learn 
to  ornament  their  own  cakes,  while  those  with  special  aptitude  can 
devise  very  attractive  designs.  A  simple  figure  for  a  border  is  shown 
in  Fig.  4,  while  Fig.  5  shows  another  design,  in  which  the  dots  might 
be  put  on  with  pink  icing  to  make  a  contrast.  We  give  other 
designs  suitable  for  practice.  The  best  taste,  however,  does  not 
favor  an  excessive  use  of  colors.  Plain  white,  and  the  milder  colors 
judiciously  used  to  produce  some  contrast,  will  result  in  the  most 
pleasing  effects.  Ladies  will  be  surprised  at  the  ease  with  which  the 
work  is  done  and  the  advance  they  make  in  learning.  Cakes  can  be 
thus  decorated  so  as  to  produce  very  pretty  effects  which  will  be 
pleasing  and 
gratifying  to 
guests.  Pat- 
terns as  pretty 
as  any  they  can 
embroider  can 
be  made  much 
more  quickly 
with  a  paper 
cone.      A   well= 

decorated     cake  Fig-  6.  Fig.  7. 

makes    a    pretty    addition    to    a    welh ornamented    table. 


398  SMALL  CAKES 

Crystallization  which  is  sometimes  used,  is  merely  putting  on, 
while  the  icing  is  moist,  crushed  rock  candy  or  granulated  sugar, 
white  or  colored  (see  "  Colors  for  Frosting").  Special  designs  can 
be  applied  by  letting  the  frosting  dry,  then  marking  out  the  design 
with  white  of  egg  or  gum  water;  then  sprinkle  on  the  white  or 
colored  sugar  or  candy,  and  shake  off  all  that  does  not  adhere. 

Jelly  can  be  used  for  piping  in  just  the  same  manner  as  frosting. 
Warm  it  so  that  it  will  pass  easily  through  the  cone;  beating  it  to  a 
uniform  consistency  with  a  spoon  often  helps  it,  especially  in  cold 
weather. 

Butter  or  Lard  can  also  be  used  in  the  same  way.  Have  it  soft 
enough  to  pass  easily  through  the  cone  with  gentle  pressure,  but  not 
too  soft.  In  hot  weather  it  can  be  stiffened  with  a  little  flour,  but  do 
not  get  it  too  stiff. 

Ornamenting  Other  Articles — Piping  is  used  for  decorating  many 
other  things  besides  cakes,  but  the  method  is  the  same  for  all.  For 
pastry  or  puddings  the  frosting  made  of  white  of  egg  and  sugar  is 
used,  while  butter,  lard  or  jelly,  are  used  for  ham,  tongue  or  7'oast 
fowl. 

SMALL  CAKES. 

For  cookies,  snaps,  jumbles,  etc.,  a  quick  oven  is  the  best.  They 
are  all  best  kept  in  a  tin  box.  If  they  get  moist  by  keeping,  dry 
them  out  in  the  oven.  For  icing  cookies,  etc.,  see  our  article  on 
"Frosting  and  Icing."  Some  people  sprinkle  cookies  with  sugar, 
after  being  rolled  out,  then  cut  them  out,  press  a  raisin  in  the  center, 
and  bake. 

For  time  to  hake  see  "  Loaf  Cakes." 

ALMOND  DROPS. 

1  cup  butter.  1  cup  almonds,  blanched. 
U  cups  sugar.                        Flour  to  roll  and  drop. 

3  eggs. 

ANISE  DROPS. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar.      3  cups  flour. 

3  eggs.  .  1  teaspoon  anise  seed. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  well  for  i  hour;  then  add 
the  other  ingredients;  drop  on  buttered  pans  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.  The  secret  lies  in  beating  rapidly 
and  thoroughly.  Each  teaspoon  is  dropped  separately 
so  as  to  make  separate  cakes. 


SMALL  CAKES  399 

aiNGEK  DKOPS. 

h  cup  butter.  2  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

i  c'jp  molasses.  1  teaspoon  ground   ginger. 

Beat  all  well  together,  adding  flour  tiil  stiff  enough 
to  drop  from  the  spoon  in  drops  the  size  of  an  eg^. 
Bake  on  tins  in  a  moderate  oven. 

GINGEK  DROPS  No.  2. 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

i  cup  molasses.  2  teaspoons  ginger. 

2  eggs,  well  beaten.  Flour  to  roll  out. 

1  tablespoon  vinegar.  Flavor  with  lemon   or  va- 

nilla. 
Koll  out  thin,  cut  with  a  small  cutter  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

GINGEE  NUTS  {Without  Eggs). 

i  cup  lard.  1  cup  molasses. 

h  cup  brown  sugar.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

i  cup  sour  milk  or  butter-  1  teaspoon  ginger, 
milk. 

Mix  very  soft,  form  into  round  balls  like  nuts,  and 
bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven. 

COOKIES. 

i  cup  lard.  1  cup  sour  milk, 

i  cup  butter.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

li  cups  white  sugar.  Flour    sufficient    to    make 

dough. 

Season  with  caraway  seed  or  nutmeg  to  suit  the 
taste.     Mix  thoroughly;  roll  very  thin;  bake  quickly. 

BOSTON  TEA  COOKIES. 

1  teacup  butter.  ^  teaspoon  soda. 

3  teacups  sugar.  Spice  to  taste. 

h  cup  sour  milk.  Flour   enough   to    roll    out 

3  eggs.  rather  stiff. 


400  SMALL  CAKES 

CINNAMON  COOKIES. 

1  cup  butter,  heaped.  3  eggs. 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  heaped. 

Flour  to  roll  out;  cut  in  small  cakes,  and  sprinkle 
on  cinnamon  and  sugar  just  before  baking. 

COCOANUT  COOKIES, 
i  cup  butter.  i  teaspoon  soda  in  a  little 

1  cup  sugar.  water. 

1  egg.  h  cocoanut  (grated). 

Flpur  enough  to  roil. 

CREAM  COOKIES  {Extra). 
\h  cups  butter.  Flour  to  roll  soft. 

H  cups  sugar.  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  cup  thin  sweet  cream.        Sprinkle    with    sugar    and 
1  egg.  cut. 

CREAM  COOKIES  No.  2. 
1  cup  thick  sour  cream.         h  teaspoon  soda. 
1  cup  sugar.  Flavor  with  lemon. 

A  pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  with  flour  enough  to  roll;  after  they  are  rolled 
sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar  and  just  pass  the  roll- 
ing pin  over  again  so  it  will  not  dust  off. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 
I  cup  butter.  2  teaspoons  soda. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  heaping  teaspoons  ginger. 

1  cup  molasses.  A  pinch  of  salt, 

f  cup  warm  water.  Mix  rather  soft. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES  {Without  Eggs). 
i  cup  melted  butter.  i  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  m 

1  cup  New  Orleans  moias-    2  tablespoons    cold    water 

ses.  (not  more). 

Add  cinnamon,  cloves  and 

nutmegs  or  other  spices 

to  taste. 

Use  flour  to  make  stiff  enough  so  that  it  will  just 
drop  off  from  the  spoon.     They  are  nice  eaten  warm, 


SMALL  CAKES  401 

MOLASSES  COOKIES  No.  2. 
Beat  together  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sugar  and  1 
egg\  add  I  cup  of  melted  lard  in  which  is  1  teaspoon  of 
salt;  add  1  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  warm  water, 
and  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  ginger; 
when  all  are  mixed  add  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  and  as 
much  flour  as  can  be  mixed  in.  Roll  out  thin,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

HEEMIT  COOKIES. 
h  cup  butter.  Flour  to  roll  soft. 

H  cups  sugar.  i  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in 

3  eggs.  4  tablespoons  water. 
1  teaspoon  each  cinnamon, 

cloves  and  nutmeg. 

HICKOEY  NUT  COOKIES. 
i  cup  butter.  Flour  enough  to  roll   thin, 

li  cups  sugar.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

4  tablespoons  milk.  1   cup   hickory    nut    meats 
3  eggs,  well  beaten.  chopped  rather  fine. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

OEANGE  COOKIES. 
I  cup  butter.  Flour  to  roll  out. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

3  eggs.  •  powder. 

Grated  rind  of  2  or  3  orang- 
es. 

EOCKFOED  COOKIES, 
i  cup  butter.  Hour  enough  to  roll  out. 

1  cup  white  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

2  tablespoons  sweet  milk.     Bake  quickly, 
legg. 

VANILLA  COOKIES. 
h  cup  butter.  Flour  enough  to  roll  soft. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

1  cup  milk.       _  i  teaspoon  soda. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Sprinkle   on   sugar  as  you 

roll  them  out. 


402  SMALL  CAKES 

SOFT  COOKIES, 
i  cup  butter  (scant).  2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

i  cup  milk.  i  teacup  cocoanut  stirred  in. 

Mix  soft  with  flour.  Roll  about  i  inch  thick. 
Take  white  of  1  egg  beaten  stiff,  add  4  tablespoons 
granulated  sugar,  and  cover  top  with  this  frosting; 
sprinkle  with  cocoanut.  Bake  a  light  brown  in  a  quick 
oven.  Watch  closely  as  they  burn  easily.  Extra  nice. 
JUMBLES. 

i  cup  butter.  Flour  to  roll  out. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

i  cup  milk.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

COCOANUT  JUMBLES. 
1  cup  butter  (scant).  1  cup  flour  (heaped), 

li  cups  pulverized  sugar.     1  lb.  grated  cocoanut. 
5  eggs.  Drop    on   tins  with  table- 

spoon. 

CREAM  JUMBLES. 
i  cup  butter.  3  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar.  2i  cups  flour. 

i  cup  sour  cream.  i  teaspoon  soda. 

HICKORY  NUT  JUMBLES. 
1  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  hickory  nuts. 

2  eggs.  Drop  off  a  spoon. 

GINGER  BISCUITS. 

1  cup  butter.  2  eggs. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
i  cup  sweet  milk.  1  teaspoon  ground  ginger. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  the  eggs 
and  beat  again;  then  add  the  milk.  Have  the  baking 
powder  and  ginger  well  mixed  in  a  coffee  cup  of  flour; 
add  this  and  more  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Cut  out 
little  cookies  and  bake. 


SMALL  CAKES  403 

GINGEE  SNAPS. 

1  cup  lard.  1  teaspoon   soda   dissolved 

1  cup  sugar.  in  2  or  3  tablespoons   of 

1  cup  molasses.  water. 

1  tablespoon  ginger.  Salt  to  taste. 

Stir  in  flour  until  the  dough  can"  be  made  into  mar- 
bles between  the  palms;  flatten  and  place  in  tins  far 
enough  apart  not  to  touch  each  other  in  rising,  and  bake 
moderately.  These  snaps  will  keep  weeks  if  kept  dry; 
if  they  become  damp  they  can  be  dried  out  and  baked 
again. 

GINGER  SNAPS  No.  2. 

1  cup  butter.  2  teaspoons  soda. 

2  cups  New  Orleans  2  tablespoons  ginger, 
molasses.  Flour  to  roll  out. 

2  eggs. 

GINGER  SNAPS  {Without  Eggs). 

i  cup  lard.  i  cup  water. 

i  cup  butter.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  sugar.  Flour  to  roll  out. 

2  cups  molasses. 

SUGAR  GINGER  SNAPS. 
4  tablespoons  lard.  Flour  enough  to  roll. 

3  tablespoons  butter.  2  teaspoons  ginger.  _ 

1  cup  sugar.  i  teaspoon    soda    dissolved 

i  cup  water  (scant).  in  warm  water. 

Warm  the  shortening  and  sugar  and  stir  in  the 
water  and  ginger;  then  the  soda  and  add  the  flour  last. 
Roll  out  very  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

FRUIT  SNAPS. 
1  cup  butter.  1  cup  each  raisins  and  cur- 

1  teaspoon  soda.  rants. 

Ih  cups  sugar.  1  teaspoon  each  of  ginger, 

i  cup  molasses.  cloves,  cinnamon  and  all- 

3  eggs.  spice. 

Flour  to  roll  out  as  soft  as  can  be  cut.  These  will 
keep  several  months. 


404 


SMALL  CAKES 


LEMON  SNAPS. 
f  cup  butter.  Flour  to  roll  soft. 

1  cup  sugar.  h  teaspoon  soda. 

4  tablespoons  hot  water.       2  teaspoons  lemon  juice. 

2  eggs.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

LADY  FINGEKS. 
.  Take  the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  beaten  light,  1  cup  white 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  flour  to  roll  thin; 
flavor  to  taste.  Cut  in  strips 
the  size  of  a  finger.  Do  not 
let  them  touch  in  the  pan. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven, 
watching  them,  as  they 
readily  scorch. 

Lady  Fingers,  No.  2. — 
Another  recipe  is  to  take 
the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  beat 
light,  add  \  cup  powdered 
sugar  and  beat  again;  add  2 
heaping  tablespoons  of  flour,  mix  well,  and  add  the 
well=beaten  whites  of  the  3  eggs.  Squeeze  them  out  of 
a  paper  cone,  or  bag  (as  shown  in  our  illustration), 
dust  on  sugar,  and  bake  till  light  brown  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

To  Mcike  a  Pastry  Bag. — Take  strong  muslin  12  inches  square, 
fold  together  2  opposite  corners  and  fell  together  tightly  2  of  the 
edges,  thus  making  a  triangular  bag;  then  cut  off  the  point  and  in- 
sert a  tin  pastry  tube.  It  is  best  to  make  2  or  3  bags  for  different 
sized  tubes.  To  use  the  bag,  put  in  the  mixture,  close  the  top,  twist 
it,  and  hold  it  tightly  with  the  right  hand,  while  the  left  guides  the 
point  and  presses  out  the  mixture  to  form  lady  fingers,  6claires  or 
anything  else  desired,     (See  the  illustration.) 

MACAKOONS. 
Almond  Macaroons. — Take  1  lb.  almonds,   blanch 
them,  and  pound  to  a  paste  with  a  little  rose  water  or 


FOEMING    LADY    FINGEES. 


SMALL  CAKES     .  405 

oil  of  lemon;  add  1  lb.  of  white  sugar,  and  the  well= 
beaten  whites  of  4  eggs.  Bake  in  drops,  or  small  cakes, 
on  buttered  tins  in  a  slow  oven  to  a  light  brown.  Some 
glaze  them  with  beaten  yolk  of  egg^  and  others  dust  on 
sugar  before  baking  them.  Keep  in  tightly  closed  tin 
boxes  or  glass  jars. 

Filbert  Macaroons  may  be  made  in  the  same  way, 
by  using  equal  parts  of  filberts  and  almonds. 

For  Cocoanut  Macaroons,  use  1  cup  powdered 
sugar  and  1  cup  grated  cocoanut;  work  in  enough  of  the 
cocoanut  milk  to  form  a  plain  paste;  mold  and  bake  as 
above  directed. 

Hickory  Nut  Macaroons. — Beat  the  whites   of    3 
eggs,  1   cup   granulated   sugar,   and   1   cup   powdered 
sugar,   till  very  light;    stir  in  1  cup  chopped  hickory 
nuts,  and  bake  like  almond  macaroons. 
lECLAIRS. 

1  cup  butter.  .  3  cups  flour. 

2  cups  water.  10  eggs  beaten  separately. 
A  pinch  of  salt. 

Put  the  water  and  butter  (cut  small)  on  the  stove 
till  melted ;  bring  to  a  boil,  beat  in  the  flour,  stir  2  or  3 
minutes;  let  cool  and  then  beat  in  the 
beaten  yolks  and  then  the  beaten 
whites.      Spread   on  buttered  baking  eolaib. 

tins,  in  strips  about  4  inches  long  and  li  inches  wide 
(squeeze  through  the  nozzle  of  a  pastry  bag  if  you  have 
one)  leaving  them  2  inches  apart  to  allow  for  swelling. 
Bake  i  to  i  hour.  "When  cool,  cut  open  and  fill  with 
whipped  cream,  flavored  to  taste,  or  with  our  mock 
whipped  cream,  or  with  any  fruit  jelly  desired.  Cover 
'^ith  chocolate,  vanilla  or  almond  frosting. 
CREAI^I  PUFFS. 

Use  same  mixture  as  for  ''  eclairs,"  but  drop  it  onto 
the    buttered  baking,  tins  by  tablespoonfuls,   making 


406  SMALL  CAKES 

round  balls  instead  of  fingers.     When  done  and  cool, 
cut  open  and  fill  same  as  the  "  eclairs." 
KISSES. 

Take  the  well=beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  add  5  table- 
spoons of  powdered  sugar,  and  flavor  with  lemon  juice; 
drop  on  buttered  paper 
with  a  spoon,  sift  sugar 
over  them  and  bake  30 
minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

For  Chocolate  Kisses 
pound  together  2  oz.  chocolate  and  2  cups  white  sugar; 
sift  it,  mix  it  with  the  well=beaten  white  of  egg^  and 
finish  as  above. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  CAKES. 

Rub  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  2  cups 
of  flour,  then  add  an  even  teaspoon  of  salt,  well  pulver- 
ized; again  add  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  home=made  bak- 
ing powder;  stir  all  together  thoroughly.  Have  on 
hand  a  cup  of  maple  sugar  coarsely  sliced  from  the 
cake.  (Place  the  cake  of  sugar  on  a  tin  and  put  in  the 
hot  oven  until  it  is  soft  enough  to  cut.)  Have  the  oven 
hot  and  a  baking=tin  well  buttered;  add  a  teacup  of 
sweet  milk  to  the  flour  and  stir  quickly.  If  the  dough 
is  not  thick  enough  add  a  trifle  more  of  flour;  put  in  the 
sugar  and  stir  again.  Roll  out  and  cut  with  the  bis- 
cuit cutter;  place  on  the  tin  and  put  in  the  oven.  The 
oven  should  be  hot  enough  to  bake  them  brown  in  10 
minutes. 

PATTY  CAKES. 
i  cup  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  cup  milk  or  water.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2^ggs. 

Make  a  soft  sponge  and  bake  quickly  in  patty  pans. 


SMALL  CAKES  407 

PUFFS. 
2  rounded  tablespoons  2  eggs  (well  beaten). 

butter.  1  tablespoon  flour. 

4  heaping  tablespoons  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon, 

sugar.  1  cup  milk. 

Mix  the  milk  and  beaten  eggs;  slowly  add  the  flour, 
butter,  sugar  and  flavor,  and  mix  well.     Bake  20  min- 
utes in  a  quick  oven  in  buttered  saucers. 
SHKEWSBERKY  CAKES. 

1  cup  butter  (heaped).  2  cups  flour. 

1  scant  cup  granulated  i  oz.  caraway  seeds, 

sugar.  1  egg^  beaten  well. 

Koll  very  thin  and  cut  into  small  cakes;  prick  them 
and  bake  in  tins  or  shallow  pans  in  a  moderate  oven. 

VERNON  CAKES. 
1  heaping  cup  butter.  4  eggs. 

1  heaping  cup  sugar.  2  teaspoons  soda. 

2  cups  molasses.  2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 
1  cup  milk.  1  nutmeg,  grated. 

Stir  together  well;  bake,  not  too  close  together  on 
sheet  iron.    As  they  burn  easily  watch  carefully. 

CREAM  CAKES. 
1  tablespoon  butter.  3  yolks  of  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

i  cup  milk.  Flour  to  make  stiff  batter. 

Bake  in  patty  pans  in  a  quick  oven.  Cut  a  cone 
shaped  hole  in  the  center  of  each  and  fill  with 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla; 
or  use  our  '^  Mock  Whipped  Cream,"  given  among  our 
fillings  for  layer  cakes.  Sprinkle  a  little  dessicated 
cocoanut  on  top.  This  makes  about  1  doz.  cakes. 
They  are  delicious. 

SAVOY  BISCUITS. 

Break  5  eggs  into  a  pan  and  add  a  coffee-cup  of 
granulated  sugar;  beat  together  until  it  is  thick,  then 
beat  in  gradually  a  coffee=cup    of    dry    sifted    flour. 


408  SMALL  CAKES 

Place  the  dough  in  teaspoonfuls  on  buttered  paper  in  a 
dripping=pan,  and  bake  a  light  brown.  When  cold, 
brush  the  under  sides  of  the  biscuits  with  the  beaten 
white  of  an  egg^  and  press  2  together. 

TRIFLES. 
2  cups  butter  (heaped).        2  cups  sugar  (heaped). 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  4  cups  flour  (heaped). 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  sift  in  the  flour,   add 
the  milk,  turn  the  dough  onto  a  bread=board  and  work 
well;  roll  out  in  as  thin  sheets  as  possible,   cut  in  small 
round  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven. 
TURTLE  CAKES. 

These  always  please  the  children.  Have  the  tur- 
tles all  made  the  day  before,  and  ready  on  a  plate. 
Take  large  raisins  and  flatten  them;  insert  at  one  end 
a  whole  clove,  with  the  head  sticking  out  for  the 
head  of  the  turtle;  at  the  other  end  insert  the  stem  of  a 
clove  with  the  smaller  end  out  for  the  turtle's  tail;  on 
each  side  insert  two  cloves  with  the  heads  picked  out 
leaving  the  spurs  on  for  the  claws  of  the  turtle.  Make 
nice  round  cookies,  spread  a  thick  frosting  on  one  side, 
and  place  a  turtle  on  the  frosting  to  dry. 
SAND  TARTS. 

Put  together  2  cups  sugar  (heaped),  1  cup  butter, 
4  cups  flour  (level);  add  2  beaten  eggs,  mix  smooth, 
roll  out,  and  cut  into  cakes;  wash  over  with  egg^  beaten 
whole,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  sugar,  and  bake. 

TRILBY  LAYER  CAKE  (Fine). 

2  cups  powdered  sugar.  1  cup  sweet  milk. 
1  cup  butter.                                        4  whites  of  eggs. 

3  cups  sifted  flour.  2  scant  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Flavor  to  taste.  For  high  altitudes  use  flour  not  sifted,  and  less 
sugar  and  butter  (see  pages  16  and  358).  For  filling,  use  Boiled 
Icing  Filling  (given  on  page  360)  with  finely  chopped  figs  or  walnuts 
stirred  in. 


DESSERTS. 


NDER  this  head  may  be  found  recipes  for  making  many  deli- 
cate dishes  with  corn-starch,  eggs,  gelatine,  etc.,  which  can 
be  prepared  in  the  morning,  or  the  day  before  they  are 
to  be  used,  and,  in  warm  weather,  served  cold  as  dessert. 

Fresh  new  milk  should  be  used  whenever  a  recipe  calls  for  milk, 
but  condensed  milk  can  be  used  if  fresh  milk  is  not  to  be  obtained. 
If  cream  is  used  it  should  be  sweet,  and  as  fresh  as  possible — the 
cream  from  "  separators  "  and  creamers  is  the  safest  to  use.  Thin 
cream  with  milk  mixed  in  it  will  not  whip  to  a  froth.  The  colder  it 
is  the  better  it  whips — in  warm  weather  it  is  apt  to  turn  to  butter. 

If  cream  is  slightly  turned  a  very  liUle  cooking  soda  dissolved 
in  a  little  cold  water  may  be  mixed  with  it  and  will  restore  it  without 
injuring  the  flavor.  The  soda  (alkali)  counteracts  the  lactic  acid 
developed  in  souring.  Milk  should  be  scalded  in  a  double  boiler 
made  for  the  purpose;  or  use  a  tin  pail  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  which  answers  very  well,  and  is  not  likely  to  be  melted  to 
pieces  by  a  careless  servant. 

So  many  warnings  against  using  bad  eggs  have  already  been 
given  that  we  need  not  rej)eat  them  here.  Beat  eggs  in  stone  or 
earthenware  and  not  in  tin,  as  explained  for  cakes.  It  is  an  improve- 
ment to  strain  yolks  through  a  small  wire  strainer  after  beating  them. 
The  yolks  alone,  or  the  whole  egg,  can  be  used  for  floats  and  boiled 
custards.  To  add  the  eggs  so  that  they  will  not  curdle  there  are  sev 
eral  ways.  One  way  is  to  heat  the  milk  till  a  slight  foam  appears  on 
top,  then  put  in  the  sugar,  which  cools  it  so  that  the  eggs  can  be 
added  without  curdling.  Another  way  is  to  mix  in  a  bowl,  the 
sugar  and  beaten  yolks,  then  gradually  add  a  little  of  the  boiling 
milk  which  will  heat  the  eggs  and  sugar;  then  slowly  stir  them  into 
the  boiling  milk;  stir  constantly  until  it  thickens  a  little  but  do  not 
leave  long  enough  to  curdle;  then  at  once  set  the  pail  containing  it 
in  cold  water  or  else  turn  it  into  a  cold  dish,  as,  if  left  in  the  hot 
pail,  it  will  curdle. 

Molds  when  used  for  blanc  mange,  charlotte  russe  and  all  creams, 
should  be  first  wet  with  cold  water. 

See  what  we  say  about  the  action  of  neat  on  flavoring  extracts  in 
our  introduction  to  "  Cake."  The  flavoring  is  best  added  after  the 
dish  is  taken  from  the  stove. 

109 


410  -  DESSEKTS 

Rennet Get  the  butcher  to  prepare  the   stomach  of  a  calf  for 

you,  salt  it  well,  and  spread  out  to  dry;  when  about  half  dry,  shake 
the  loose  salt  off  and  cut  it  into  strips;  then  take  a  quart  bottle,  put 
in  the  strips,  and  fill  with  currant,  Muscatine,  or  any  other  sweet 
wine;  let  stand  12  or  15  days,  and  it  can  be  used.  It  is  superior  to 
the  liquid  rennet  sold  in  the  stores,  and  will  keep  12  months  or  more. 

BLANC  MANGE. 

Blanc  Mange  means  literally  "white  food"  or  jelly,  but  in  many 
recipes  fruit  or  other  coloring  is  now  added  to  such  desserts  to  im- 
prove the  appearance  and  give  variety.  Blanc  mange  is  made  of 
many  materials,  like  corn^starch,  arrowroot,  sago,  tapioca,  gelatine, 
etc.  It  may  be  garnished  with  bright  colored  jelly  if  desired,  and 
eaten  with  whipped  cream,  cream  and  sugar,  boiled  custard,  pre- 
serves, fruit  juices,  jellies  or  sauces. 

Arrowroot  and  several  other  blanc  manges  are  given  in  our  "  In- 
valid Cookery"  (which  see). 

ALMOND  BLANC  MANQE.— Take  4  cups  milk,  4  tablespoona 
of  corn=starch  and  4  tablespoons  of  sugar;  boil  all  together  until 
thick,  and  add  30  almonds,  blanched  and  split. 

FARINA  BLANC  MANGE — Mix  5  tablespoons  of  farina  in  a 
little  cold  water,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  stir  it  into  1  quart  of  boil- 
ing milk;  boil  10  to  15  minutes,  and  turn  into  a  wet  mold. 

Corn=Starch  Blanc  Mange  is  made  the  same  way,  but  do  not  cook 
quite  as  long.  It  can  also  be  made  by  using  1  tablesjjoon  less  of 
corn=starch,  and  adding  2  well^beaten  eggs,  which  makes  it  richer. 

FRUIT  BLANC  MANGE — Stew  the  fresh  fruit,  strain  off  the 
juice  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Put  it  in  a  double  kettle  and  let  it  boil. 
While  it  is  boiling,  stir  in  corn^starch  wet  with  a  little  cold  water,  in 
the  proportion  of  2  tablespoons  of  corn=starch  to  1  pint  of  juice;  stir 
it  until  it  is  cooked;  then  pour  in  molds  wet  in  cold  water,  and  set 
them  away  to  cool.  They  may  be  cooled  quickly  by  setting  the  cups 
in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  changing  the  water  as  it  becomes  warm. 
Eat  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  a  rather  thin  boiled  custard. 

Cherries  or  red  raspberries  are  nicest,  but  other  fruit  may  be 
used.  Currant  juice  combined  with  raspberries  is  fine;  strawberries 
are  good,  and  a  circle  of  fresh  strawberries  around  the  molds  makes  a 
good  garnish. 

IRISH  MOSS  BLANC  MANGE— Wash  1  cup  moss  in  soda 
water  to  remove  the  saline  taste,  and  rinse  in  several  waters;  steep  it 
in  1  quart  of  milk  till  that  is  thickened;  strain  through  a  fine  sieve, 


DESSEETS  411 

and  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Wet  the  mold  in  cold  water  and 
pour  in  the  blanc  mange.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream,  eating  it  the 
day  it  is  made.  It  is  an  addition  to  give  a  little  preserved  ginger 
with  each  plate.     This  is  good  for  invalids  without  the  ginger. 

RICE  BLANC  MANGE.— Use  l  pound  ground  rice,  1  quart 
milk,  3  ounces  loaf  sugar,  1  ounce  fresh  butter.  Mix  the  rice  to  a 
smooth  batter  with  about  ^  pint  of  the  milk;  put  the  remainder  into 
a  sauce-pan  with  sugar,  butter,  and  a  small  pinch  of  salt;  bring  to  the 
boiling  point;  then  stir  in  the  rice  and  let  it  boil  10  minutes.  After 
taking  from  the  fire  add  any  flavoring  desired.  Grease  the  mold 
with  salad  oil,  and  when  perfectly  set,  it  should  turn  out  easily. 
Garnish  with  jam,  or  pour  around  a  compote  of  any  kind  of  fruit 
just  before  sending  to  the  table.  It  is  best  made  the  day  before  it  is 
wanted,  A  nice  flavoring  is  made  by  steeping  3  laurel  leaves  in  the 
milk  and  taking  them  out  before  the  rice  is  added. 

VARIEGATED  BLANC  MANGE.— Make  2  blanc  manges— 1 
white,  of  corn=starch,  and  1  colored,  of  fruit;  pour  a  little  of  each  of 
these  alternately  into  a  mold,  thus  forming  different  colored  layers, 
letting  each  layer  set  before  pouring  on  the  next. 

CUSTAEDS. 

Duck's  eggs,  when  obtainable,  add  much  to  the  richness  and 
flavor  of  custards.  Less  are  required  than  of  the  ordinary  eggs. 
Four  duck's  eggs  to  a  pint  of  milk  makes  a  delicious  custard. 

Custards  may  be  made  with  cream  or  milk,  and  with  eggs  vary- 
ing in  number.  One  tablespoon  of  sugar  for  each  egg  is  the  uniform 
rule  for  custards. 

A  very  plain  custard  can  be  made  with  1  egg  to  a  pint  of  milk 
and  a  good  one  with  3  eggs,  but  if  it  is  wanted  very  rich  4  or  even  5 
eggs  can  be  used.  The  richer  the  custard  the  more  likely  it  is  to 
curdle.  If  it  does  curdle,  take  an  egg-beater  and  thoroughly  beat  a 
bowlful  at  once  and  it  can  be  saved,  although  many  cooks  do  not 
know  this.  Floating  Island  can  be  saved  the  same  way.  For  boiled 
custards  the  yolks  give  a  smoother  consistency  than  the  whites. 

Boiled  custards  require  constant  attention  from  beginning  to 
end;  do  not  let  them  boil  an  instant  too  long,  but  take  them  from 
the  stove  as  soon  as  they  are  done  and  they  will  thicken  in  cooling; 
do  not  leave  them  in  the  hot  dish,  or  they  will  curdle,  but  pour  them 
into  cold  molds,  or  set  the  vessel  containing  them  in  cold  water. 

Custard  ought  to  be  thin  enough  to  pour  if  it  is  to  serve  as  a 
sauce,  and  should  then  be  taken  off  an  instant  sooner. 


412  DESSEKTS 

If  the  yolks  only  are  used  in  the  custard,  the  whites  may  be 
utilized  in  various  ways.  They  can  be  beaten  up,  sweetened  and 
flavored  and  put  on  top,  as  in  "Floating  Island";  or  after  beating, 
they  may  be  poached  by  dipping  a  spoonful  at  a  time  into  boiling 
water  or  milk,  and  then  spread  on  top  of  the  custard,  either  dotted 
with  bits  of  jelly  or  not,  as  preferred.  The  beaten  whites  can  also  be 
colored  by  beating  in  any  bright  colored  jelly,  using  1  tablespoon  of 
jelly  to  the  white  of  each  egg. 

The  Time  to  Bake  custards  is  20  to  30  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Bake  them  slowly  with  moderate  heat;  if  there  is  too  much 
heat  they  will  partly  turn  to  whey.  They  are  done  when  firm  in  the 
center;  or  test  them  by  thrusting  in  a  knife  or  spoon — they  are  done 
when  it  comes  out  clean. 

BAKED  CUSTARD.— Scald  4  cups  milk;  beat  the  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  add  4  tablesi3oons  of  sugar  and  ^  teaspoon 
of  salt;  pour  on  the  scalded  milk  and  bake  in  cups 
set  in  a  dripping-pan  with  boiling  water  in  the 
bottom;  grate  nutmeg  on  toi^.  Time  to  bake, 
about  20  minutes.  Or  it  can  be  steamed  in  a 
bowl  or  in  cups.  Six  eggs  are  often  used,  but  it  is 
nice  with  4. 

Nutmeg  is  the  kernel  of  the  fruit  of  an  evergreen  tree 
now  cultivated  in  the  West  India  Islands,  etc.  It  contains 
about  &i  of  a  pungent  essential  oil.  It  is  aromatic,  stimu- 
lant, and  contains  narcotic  properties.  Nutmeg  is  injur- 
ious to  many  people,  causing  what  is  called  heart^burn. 

BOILED  CUSTARD — Bring  2  cups  milk  to  the  boil;  beat  the 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  add  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  ^  saltspoon  salt,  and  beat 
well;  add  the  boiling  milk  slowly,  set  it  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  till 
thick;  when  jpartly  cool  stir  in  ^  teas^Doon  of  vanilla  or  any  other  flavor- 
ing preferred.  One  half  teaspoon  of  corn=starch  dissolved  in  a  little 
cold  water  and  boiled  with  the  milk  will  prevent  the  custard  from 
curdling  which  it  is  sometimes  apt  to  do.  A  meringue  can  be  made 
of  the  whites  and  spread  over  the  top  when  cool,  if  desired. 

For  a  chocolate  custard  add  |-  square  of  chocolate,  melted.  For 
cocoanut  add  |  cup  grated  cocoanut.  Lemon  or  orange  jelly  can  be 
cut  in  cubes  and  added  if  desired  for  variety,  or  canned  or  candied 
fruits,  can  be  added. 

CORN=STARCH  CUSTARD — Beat  together  the  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
1  cup  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  corn^starch;  add  2  cups  boiling  milk,  let 
boil  10  minutes,  add  1  teaspoon  butter,  and  when  cooled  a  little,  ^  tea- 
spoon of  any  flavoring  extract  liked  best. 


NUTMEG. 


SESSEETS  413 

ALMOND  CUSTARDS.— Make  a  boiled  custard  with  1  pint  of 
milk,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  4  tablesx)oons  of  sugar,  and  1  saltspoon 
of  salt.  When  cold,  add  -|  cup  of  finely  chox3ped  almonds  and  1  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla.  Serve  in  glasses  with  whipped  cream  sprinkled  with 
finely = shredded  almonds. 

APPLE  CUSTARD. — Take  1  pint  stewed  apples,  sweetened  and 
cooled;  1  pint  sweet  milk,  4  eggs,  well  beaten.  Mix  the  apple,  milk 
and  eggs,  put  in  the  baking=dish,  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top, 
and  bake  ^  hour. 

ARROWROOT  CUSTARD — Two  cups  of  boiling  milk,  3  heaping 
teaspoons  arrowroot  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar 
beaten  with  1  egg.  Mix  the  paste  with  the  boiling  milk,  stirring 
briskly;  take  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  egg  and  sugar,  and  boil  2  min- 
utes ;  flavor  to  taste  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  This  is  very  light  and 
delicate,  and  suitable  for  invalids. 

BANANA  CUSTARD. — Make  a  plain  boiled  custard,  and  when 
cool,  pour  it  over  bananas  cut  in  thin  slices. 

FRUIT  CUSTARDS — Make  the  same  as  banana  custard,  using 
any  kind  of  fruit  desired,  either  fresh  or  canned. 

BENGAL  CUSTARD — Take  1  quart  of  milk,  3  tablespoons  of 
rice  flour,  3  welhbeaten  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  or  more  if  liked. 
Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  beat  the  eggs,  rice  flour,  and  sugar 
together,  and  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  vanilla.  Bake  or  steam  in  cus- 
tard=cups.  If  baked,  place  the  cups  in  a  dripping=pan  of  hot  water 
and  the  cups  will  not  be  discolored. 

SOFT  CARAMEL  CUSTARD— Take  1  quart  of  milk,  |  cup 
of  sugar,  6  eggs,  ^  teaspoon  of  salt.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  reserv- 
ing a  cupful.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add  the  cold  milk  to  them.  Stir 
the  sugar  in  a  small  frying-jDan  until  it  becomes  liquid  and  just  be- 
gins to  smoke.  Stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk;  then  add  the  beaten  eggs 
and  cold  milk  and  stir  constantly  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken. 
Set  away  to  cool.     Serve  in  glasses. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD.— Use  i  lb.  Baker's  prepared  cocoa  to 
1  quart  of  milk.  Mix  the  milk  and  scraped  chocolate  to  a  thick  paste; 
boil  15  minutes;  while  warm  stir  in  3  tablespoons  sugar,  and  set  it 
away  to  cool.  Beat  8  eggs  well,  and  stir  into  this  mixture.  Bake  in 
cups.     It  may  be  served  with  a  macaroon  on  top  of  each. 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD — One  quart  milk,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  6  ta- 
blespoons of  sugar,  2  tablespoons  corn==starch  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla 


414  DESSEETS 

flavoring.  Put  milk,  sugar  and  eggs  on  the  stove  in  a  fettle  of  hot 
water,  or  use  a  double  boiler;  when  the  milk  begins  to  simmer  add 
the  corn=starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk;  boil  3  minutes.  When 
cool  add  the  flavoring  and  cover  the  top  with  grated  cocoanut. 

CUSTARD  FLOAT. — Put  4  large  tablespoons  of  chocolate  in  1 
quart  of  milk;  dissolve  it  well,  and  heat  it  in  a  double  boiler;  add  the 
wellsbeaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  ^  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  corn= 
starch,  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla;  boil  about  as  long  as  corn=starch 
custard,  and  then  put  on  ice  to  cool.  When  ready  to  serve  pour 
into  a  glass  dish,  and  put  the  welhbeaten  whites  of  the  4  eggs  or 
top.     It  will  be  relished  by  those  who  like  chocolate. 

LEMON  CUSTARD.— Take  1  pint  of  fresh  milk,  1  lemon,  -|  cup 
sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Put  the  milk  to  scald  in  the  double  boiler; 
add  the  grated  rind  and  strained  juice  of  the  lemon  to  the  sugar; 
beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  stiff,  then  mix  with  the  sugar  and  lemon,  and 
stir  it  into  the  milk  when  scalding  hot;  take  it  from  the  fire  immedi- 
ately as  it  must  not  boil.  When  it  has  cooled  a  little  fill  it  into  the 
custard=cups.  The  white  of  1  egg  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  may  be 
made  into  frosting  and  a  portion  placed  on  each  custard. 

RENNET  CUSTARD.— Heat  1  quart  of  milk  until  it  is  luke- 
warm; add  2  tablespoons  of  rennet  (see  our  recii^e  for  preparing  it> 
although  it  can  be  bought  at  the  stores),  2  tablespoons  of  lemon 
juice,  and  4  tablespoons  of  sugar;  stir  the  ingredients  gently  to- 
gether; as  soon  as  they  are  mixed  pour  the  custard  immediately  into 
the  bowl  in  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Set  it  on  the  ice  as  soon  as  it 
is  cool,  and  serve  it  for  dessert,  with  preserves  or  cream  and  sugar. 
It  will  be  firm  in  about  2  hours,  and  should  be  served  soon  after. 

OST  KAKA  [of  Sweden). — This  is  rennet  custard  served  with 
cinnamon  and  cream. 

CUSTARD  SOUFFLE.— Use  2  cups  milk,  2  tablespoons  butter, 
•|  cup  sugar,  4  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Scald 
the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  when  hot  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
well  beaten  with  the  sugar  and  flour;  take  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  it 
begins  to  thicken,  and  stir  in  the  butter;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  cut  it  into  the  custard  lightly,  and  bake  \  hour  in 
a  slow  oven.     Servo  as  soon  as  taken  from  the  oven. 

STEAMED  CUSTARD.— Take  5  eggs  (throw  out  the  yolks  of  2, 
and  beat),  3  tablesiDoons  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  chij)  or  two  of 
lemon  or  orange,  and  a  little  vanilla.     Scald  1  quart  of  milk,  take  off 


DESSEETS  415 

the  scum,  and  pour  it  on  the  beaten  eggs.      Set  it  to  pteaming  in  a 
close  covered  vessel,  and  steam  5  or  6  minutes;  then  set  on  ice. 

.  TAPIOCA  CUSTARD.— Take  1  quart  of  fresh  milk,  2  eggs,"  | 
cup  of  pearl  tapioca,  ^  cup  of  white  sugar.  Soak  the  tapioca  over 
night,  and  the  next  morning  drain  off  all  the  water  while  the  milk  is 
scalding  in  a  double  boiler;  when  the  milk  is  hot,  add  the  tapioca 
and  let  it  simmer  10  minutes;  beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  together,  and 
add  to  the  milk  and  tapioca;  flavor  with  cinnamon,  vanilla  or  nut- 
meg. 

TOMATO  CUSTARD.— Peel  and  stew  until  thoroughly  cooked  1 
quart  of  ripe  tomatoes;  strain  through  a  sieve  to  remove  the  seeds; 
beat  3  fresh  eggs  very  light  and  add  them  to  the  strained  tomatoes 
with  a  teacup  of  white  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  15  or  20  minutes. 
This  is  nice  served  hot  or  cold. 

VARIOUS  CUSTARDS.— Those  without  experience  should  ad- 
here closely  to  the  recipes  given,  but  cooks  with  a  little  experience 
can  produce  a  variety  of  custards  by  varying  the  flavors  used,  leaving 
the  body  of  the  custard  the  same.  Oranges  cut  fine  (after  being 
peeled  and  seeded)  can  be  used,  simply  adding  them  to  a  good 
custard;  so  can  canrccd  or  candied  fruits,  chopjjed  almonds,  grated 
cocoanut,  chocolate,  caramels,  macaroons,  etc.,  thus  making  various 
custards.  An  ingenious  cook  can  devise  many  changes,  and  make 
attractive  dishes,  and  we  advise  experienced  cooks  to  try  it. 

CKEAMS,  PUFFS,  ETC. 
CHOCOLATE  CREAM — Heat  4  cups  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt; 
when  hot  add  3  tablespoons  of  flour;  after  it  thickens  add  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  cream  with  3  tablespoons  of  sugar;  cook  a  few  min- 
utes, and  when  done  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  the  3  whites  stifp, 
add  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  then  3  tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate. 
Spread  it  on  the  cream  and  brown  it  in  the  oven. 

COFFEE  CREAM — Mix  \  cup  sugar,  \  cup  strong  coffee  and  1 
pint  rich  cream;  whip  till  it  is  all  froth;  put  in  stem  glasses,  freeze, 
and  serve  in  the  same  glasses. 

HAMBURG  CREAM — Grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice  o9. 
1  lemon  into  1^  cups  sugar;  beat  the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  put  into  a  pan, 
add  the  sugar,  and  set  in  hot  water,  stirring  all  the  time;  when  the 
gggs  begin  to  cook,  add  the  5  whites,  which  should  be  beaten  anf' 
ready;  then  remove  and  let  cool. 


416  DESSEKTS 

MOCK  CREAM Take  1  quart  of  new  milk,  1  fresh  egg,  1  tea- 
spoon of  corn^^starch,  1  teaspoon  of  white  sugar.  Scald  the  milk  in  a 
double  boiler,  or  tin  pail  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Beat  the 
starch,  sugar  and  egg  thoroughly,  and  stir  into  the  milk  when  it  is 
scalding  hot.     Let  it  get  thoroughly  cold  before  serving. 

PINK  CREAM. — Use  3  gills  raspberry  syrup  mixed  with  ^ 
pound  of  sugar  and  1  pint  of  thick,  sweet  cream.  Whisk  until  very- 
light,  and  serve  in  whip  glasses. 

RICE  CREAM — Boil  1  cup  rice  till  tender,  in  new  milk;  add 
white  sugar  to  whiten,  pile  on  a  dish,  and  spread  slices  of  currant 
jelly  or  preserved  fruit  on  top  of  it.  Then  take  the  welhbeaten 
whites  of  5  eggs,  sweetened  with  powdered  sugar,  and  add  1  table- 
spoon of  rich  cream  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  spread  this  on  top  like 
snow. 

RICE  CREAM  No.  2 — Cook  4  tablespoons  of  dry  rice  in  4 
cups  milk,  then  add  yolks  of  4  eggs,  4  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt;  cook  till  done  and  add  1  teaspoon  of  any  flavoring  de- 
sired. Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
spread  it  on  the  cream,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM. — Soak  1  cup  tapioca  in  2  cups  water  over 
night.  In  the  morning  add  4  cups  rich  milk,  put  it  in  the  double 
boiler  and  cook  ^  hour;  then  add  ^  cup  sugar  (scant),  a  little  lemon 
flavor,  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs;  stir  continually,  letting  it  cook 
gently  for  3  minutes,  and  then  stir  in  the  3  whites  of  egg,  beaten 
stiff.     Pour  it  into  a  glass  dish  and  serve  cold. 

For  a  change  instead  of  adding  the  3  whites  of  egg  the  tapioca 
can  be  allowed  to  get  cold,  then  spread  on  a  layer  of  jelly  and  cover 
with  a  meringue.  Or,  leave  off  the  jelly,  cover  with  a  soft  frost- 
ing, and  brown  slightly  in  the  oven. 

SAGO  FLOAT — Soak  4  tablespoons  of  sago  in  cold  water  ^ 
hour;  then  cook  till  clear.  Heat  to  boiling  4  cups  milk,  add  the  sago, 
2  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  milk,  and  salt  and  flavoring  to  taste.  Cook  in  a 
double  boiler;  when  thick  and  creamy  pour  it  into  a  pretty  dish  and 
dot  it  over  with  a  meringue  in  spoonfuls;  brown  delicately  and  serve 
cold. 

AIR  BALLS — Make  as  for  cream  of  tartar  biscuit,  and  cut  in 
small  squares.  Fry  them  in  smoking  hot  fat,  like  doughnuts,  lay 
them  on  paper  to  drain  off  the  grease,  and  dip  them  in  hot  simmered 
molasses,  which  should  be  ready  at  hand.     Serve  hot. 


DESSEKTS  417 

CRACKER  DESSERT — Put  a  square  cracker  in  a  saucer,  pour 
just  enough  boiling  water  on  it  to  soften  it;  put  a  teaspoon  of  jelly 
in  the  center,  sprinkle  sugar  over,  and  pour  sweet  cream  over  all. 
Very  nice  also  for  invalids. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE.— Beat  the  whites  of  7  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth;  whip  1  pint  of  cream  and  add  it;  add  sugar  and  flavor  to 
taste;  pour  it  over  sliced  cake.     Set  in  a  cool  place  after  making. 

JELLY  AND  RICE  DESSERT — Soak  1  teacup  rice;  when  done 
to  a  jelly  add  1  teaspoon  of  currant  jelly  and  ^  teacup  of  fruit  juice; 
boil  a  few  minutes;  put  in  molds,  and  eat  with  cream  and  sugar. 

FLOATING  ISLAND.— Beat  well  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  add  5 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  stir  it  into  1  quart  of  sweet  milk;  when 
cool,  flavor  and  pour  into  a  dish.  Heap  upon  it  the  5  well=beaten 
whites,  to  which  a  little  sugar  is  added,  and  ^  cup  jelly.  Dot  with 
bits  of  jelly. 

LAYER  PUDDING  (Brown  Layer) — Take  2  cups  milk,  ^  cup 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  scraped  chocolate,  and  2  rounded  tablespoons 
of  corn=starch;  moisten  the  starch  in  a  small  portion  of  the  milk,  and 
place  the  remainder  in  a  double  boiler  with  the  chocolate  until  it  is 
scalding  hot;  then  add  the  corn=starch  and  sugar  and  stir  it  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens;  then  put  it  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  or 
mold  to  cool. 

Yellow  Layer. — Take  2  cups  milk,  ^  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2 
tablespoons  of  corn^starch  and  ^  teaspoon  of  extract  of  vanilla;  scald 
the  milk  as  above,  saving  a  portion  to  moisten  the  corn^starch;  when 
the  milk  is  hot  add  the  egg  yolk,  corn^starch  and  sugar,  and  stir 
until  thick;  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  vanilla,  and  put  this  in  the 
mold  to  cool,  over  the  brown  layer  of  pudding. 

Pink  Layer. — Take  2  cups  milk,  ^  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  corn* 
starch  dissolved  in  berry  juice,  or  the  berries  may  be  crushed  fine 
and  added  without  straining;  make  like  the  other  layers,  and  put  this 
layer  in  the  mold  over  the  yellow  layer.  Then  beat  the  2  whites  of 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  ^  cup  pulverized  sugar,  and  place  it  on  top. 

This  pudding  can  be  made  of  water  instead  of  milk,  if  milk  is 
scarce,  and  if  eggs  are  scarce  the  yellow  part  may  be  colored  with  a 
little  saffron  instead  of  the  yolk  of  egg,  and  the  frosting  omitted. 
Serve  with  sweet  cream,  or  any  liquid  pudding  sauce  preferred. 

KISS  PUDDING — Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  |  cup  sugar 
until  light;  add  1^  tablespoons  corn=starch  wet  with  a  little  cold 
milk;  stir  in  2  cups  boiling  milk  till  thick;  then  let  cool.  Boat  tlie 
whites  of  the  3  eggs  with  ^  cup  sugar,  spread  it  over  the  top,  and 
brown  in  the  oven. 
2t 


418  DESSEKTS 

MOCK  LEMON  JELLY.— To  4  cups  boiling  water  add  1  small 
teacup  of  sugar,  and  5  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  or  less  if  very  strong; 
boil  2  or  3  minutes  and  stir  in  2  level  tablespoons  of  corn-starch  dis- 
solved in  cold  water;  boil  2  minutes  and  add  2  teaspoons  lemon 
extract;  let  it  cool  before  serving, 

DESSERT  PUFFS.— Take  the  welhbeaten  whites  of  4  eggs,  2 
cups  cream,  2  cups  milk,  1  cup  sifted  flour  (heaped),  1  cup  powdered 
sugar  (scant),  a  little  salt,  and  a  little  grated  rind  of  lemon;  beat 
them  all  together  until  very  light;  bake  in  gem  pans,  and  then  sift 
pulverized  sugar  over  them.     Eat  with  sauce  flavored  with  lemon. 

RICE  DESSERT — Spread  rice  that  has  been  cooked  quite 
thick,  on  a  plate;  spread  over  it  a  layer  of  strawberry  jam,  then  a 
layer  of  rice  on  top.  Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  on  top  and  serve 
with  cream. 

RICE  WITH  CUSTARD— Boil  2  cups  rice  in  4  cups  of  water, 
with  a  little  salt;  when  done  turn  into  small  cups.  When  cold  turn 
onto  a  dish.  Make  a  boiled  custard  with  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  cups 
milk  and  1  teaspoon  of  corn=starch;  flavor  with  lemon.  When  cold 
pour  it  over  the  rice  balls. 

RICE  MOLDS — Cook  rice  in  the  morning  and  turn  it  into  but^ 
tered  teacups;  when  cold  turn 
them  on  to  a  platter,  make  a 
little  cavity  in  the  top  of  each 
one  and  fill  the  opening  with 
any  kind  of  jelly  liked  best. 
Serve  sweetened  and  flavored 
cream  with  them.      Or  put  the  kice  mold. 

rice  in  a  large  mold  first;  when 

cold  turn  out  on  a  plate,  make  a  cavity  in  the  top,  fill  it  with  jelly 
and  put  fruit  around  the  base,  as  shown  in  our  illustration. 

MOLDED  SNOW — Scald  8  cups  of  milk  and  mix  ^  cup  of  corn= 
starch,  with  1  cup  of  milk,  using  1  quart  of  milk  in  all.  Stir  the 
diluted  corn=starch  into  the  hot  milk,  adding  also  2  tablespoons  of 
sugar.  Cook  15  minutes;  then  add  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff 
and  pour  into  a  mold.     Chill  and  serve. 

SCANDINAVIAN  ROGROD.— Take  1|  quarts  of  water  and  add 
1^  quarts  of  any  acid  fruit  juice,  like  currant,  and  2  heaping  cups 
sugar,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  A  little  stick  cinnamon  tied  in  a  bag 
should  be  dropped  in  and  later  taken  out,  as  it  can  be  used  in  that 


DESSEKTS  419 

way  often.  While  boiling,  stir  in  slowly,  to  keep  it  from  lumping,  1 
lb.  soaked  sago,  or  1^  lbs.  arrowroot;  then  boil  15  minutes,  and  turn 
into  molds  or  cups  to  cool.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream  when  cold. 
(A  favorite  dish  in  Sweden  and  Norway). 

SPONGE  BISCUIT  FOR  DESSERT— Take  2  cups  flour,  1|  cups 
sugar,  sifted,  6  eggs,  beaten  separate,  lemon  flavor.  Beat  the  whites, 
add  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the  lemon  flavor,  then  the  sugar;  mix  well 
and  add  flour  last.  Bake  in  patty^pans,  with  sugar  sprinkled  over 
the  top  to  glaze.     Serve  with  a  rich  liquid  sauce. 

FKUIT    DESSEETS. 

See  also  what  is  said  at  the  close  of  this  section  under  the  head 
of  "  Additional  Fruit  Desserts." 

APPLE  FLOAT — Bake  3  apples  (with  no  water  around  them); 
when  done,  scrape  the  pulp  all  out,  thoroughly  mix  in  1  cup  sugar 
and  let  it  cool.  Then  add  the  well=beaten  white  of  1  egg,  and  beat 
all  together  thoroughly.  Form  it  into  shape  and  pour  around  it  a 
custard  made  of  1  quart  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  corn^starch,  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  sugar  to  sweeten,  and  lemon  or  vanilla  flavor. 

APPLE  KUCHEN — Make  a  pie^crust  a  trifle  richer  than  biscuit, 
roll  out  and  place  it  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  in  which  meat  is 
roasted.  Peel  cooking  apples,  slice  them  into  eighths,  and  place  them 
across  the  pan,  close  together  in  even  rows,  leaving  a  small  space 
between  the  rows,  and  pressing  the  inner  edge  of  the  apple  slightly 
into  the  crust;  sprinkle  cofifee  "A"  sugar  over  the  apple,  and  a  little 
nutmeg;  bake  in  the  oven  until  the  apples  are  cooked.  This  will 
make  a  simple  and  attractive  dessert. 

APPLE  SNOW.— Make  a  boiled  custard  with  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  2  cups  milk,  4  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  ^  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Beat  the  3  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  then 
beat  in  1  cup  pulverized  sugar  and,  little  by  little,  2  cups  unsweet- 
ened apple  sauce.     Serve,  using  the  custard  as  a  sauce. 

Apple  Snow  No.  2. — Sift  steamed  apples  to  make  2  cups  of  pulp. 
Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  stiff  and  stir  together.  To  every  table- 
spoon of  apple  use  1  teaspoon  of  sugar  until  the  apple  is  all  beaten 
in.    Beat  the  whole  stiff  and  keep  cold.    Serve  with  cream  or  custard. 

RED  CURRANT  SNOW.— Use  2  cups  boiling  water,  2  table- 
spoons of  corn=starch  and  1  cup  sugar;  when  cooked  thick  remove 
from  fire  and  add  the  juice  of  2  cups  of  red  currants  crushed  and 


420  DESSEKTS 

pressed  through  the  colander.  Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  add  a  little 
sugar  and  pour  over  all. 

RASPBERRY     SNOW Proceed   as   directed   for   red   currant 

snow. 

STRAWBERRY  SNOW — Proceed  as  directed  for  red  currant 
snow. 

Other  Fruits  can  be  used  the  same  way,  producing  many  varieties. 

BANANA-  DESSERT.— Allow  for  12  bananas  1^  cups  fruit  juice 
(any  kind  preferred)  and  1  cup  sugar.  Peel  the  bananas  and  stew 
them  gently  in  this  syrup  20  minutes;  then  take  out  and  lay  them  in 
a  glass  dish.  Boil  the  syrup  until  it  thickens  and  pour  it  over  the 
bananas.     Serve  cold. 

BANANA   DESSERT,    No.   2 — Peel  and  slice  6  bananas;   peel, 
slice  and  seed  6  oranges;  arrange  in  alternate  layers,  sprinkling  on 
powdered  sugar,  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon 
over  all  and  serve  cold! 

BERRY  DESSERTS.— In  2  cups  water  sim- 
mer 4  cups  of  any  berries  desired,  sweetening  to 
taste;  boil  2  tablespoons  of  corn^starch  in  2  cups 
water  for  15  minutes;  then  stir  in  the  fruit,  turn 
it  into  molds  and  set  it  in  a  cold  place  to  harden. 
Serve  cold,  with  cream,  whipped  cream  or  mock 
whipped  cream.  Or  (2)  arrowroot  can  be  used 
instead  of  the  corn=starch  if  preferred;  also  fresh 
fruit  can  be  used  instead  of  the  stewed. 


AKEOWBOOT. 


FRUIT  CUPS — Stir  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  into  2  cups 
sifted  flour;  add  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Butter  coffee-cups, 
drop  in  a  little  of  the  dough,  then  2  or  3  teaspoons  of  chopped 
peaches,  then  enough  more  dough  to  fill  the  cups  about  half  full. 
Put  the  cups  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  set  in  the  oven,  cover  closely  and 
steam  30  minutes.     Eat  with  sugar  and  cream  or  whipped  cream. 

Stoned  cherries,  currants,  dates,  figs,  strawberries,  raspberries,  or  any 
other  fruit  can  be  used  instead  of  the  j)eaches,  and  a  variety  of 
desserts  produced  in  this  way. 

COCOANUT  CORN=STARCH.— Bring  4  cups  milk  to  the  boil; 
moisten  2  tablespoons  of  corn=starch  with  a  little  of  the  hot  milk,  add 
the  well-beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  ^  cup  of  grated  cocoanut  and  1  salt- 
spoon  of  salt;  stir  all  into  the  boiling  milk  until  it  thickens.  Beat 
the  4  whites  of  eggs  with  ^  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  spread  it  on  top 


DESSEETS  421 

of  the  corn-starch  when  it  is  partly  cooled,  and  sprinkle  cocoanut 
on  top. 

SNOWED  FRUIT.— Spread  a  layer  of  sliced  apples,  pears, 
peaches,  bananas,  pineapple  or  other  fruit;  then  put  on  a  layer  of 
dessicated  or  fresh  grated  cocoanut  and  sugar,  then  another  layer  of 
.  fruit,  and  so  on  alternately.  Cover  the  top  lightly  with  cocoanut  and 
sugar.     Eat  with  or  without  cream. 

Berries  of  any  kind  may  also  be  used  instead  of  the  larger  fruit. 

TAPIOCA  NUT  CREAM — Soak  ^  pound  of  pearl  tapioca  over 
night  in  1^  cups  of  cold  water.  Cover  with  3  cups  of  cold  water  and 
cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  transparent,  then  add  ^  cup  of  sugar, 
and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon;  turn  into  small  molds. 
Chill  and  turn  into  a  glass  dish  garnished  with  apricots  and  whipped 
cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  chopped  walnuts  and  vanilla. 

THICKENED  CREAM.— Stir  together  i  cup  of  rich  milk,  |  cup 
white  sugar,  and  1  wine=glass  of  rose= water;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of 
2  eggs,  and  stir  all  into  1  quart  of  rich  cream ;  set  it  over  hot  coals, 
let  it  just  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  all  the  time;  then  take  ofp,  pour 
into  a  glass  bowl,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Eat  with  any  berries,  like 
strawberries,  or  raspberries,  or  with  sweetmeats. 

FRENCH  JELLIES — Let  a  layer  of  melted  jelly  cool  in  the  bot- 
tom of  a  mold;  then  add  a  layer  of  any  kind  of  fresh  fruit,  or  soft 
dried  fruit;  then  add  another  layer  of  jelly,  and  so  on  until  the  mold 
is  filled.     Many  delicious  desserts  can  be  thus  produced. 

BIRD'S  NEST — Take  6  apples,  peel,  sweeten  and  bake,  and 
then  cover  with  a  custard  made  of  2  tablespoons  sugar,  3  yolks  of 
eggs,  3  cups  milk,  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla;  bake  till  firm. 

FRUIT  DESSERT.— Cover  the  bottom  of  a  berry  disli  with  a 
layer  of  sliced  oranges;  sprinkle  on  pulverized  sugar,  then  put  on  a 
layer  of  strawberries,  and  so  on  alternately  until  the  dish  is  full. 
Over  the  whole  pour  orange  juice  in  the  proportion  of  3  oranges  to  a 
quart  of  berries.  Let  stand  about  an  hour,  and  just  before  serving 
sprinkle  with  pounded  ice. 

Fruit  Dessert  No.  2 — Cut  bananas,  oranges  and  pineapple  in  small 
pieces;  arrange  them  in  alternate  layers  in  a  glass  dish,  with  pow- 
dered sugar  and  grated  cocoanut  between  each  layer.  Squeeze  the 
juice  of  a  lemon  on  top  and  set  on  ice  for  4  or  5  hours.  The  last 
thing  before  serving  sprinkle  grated  cocoanut  freely  on  top.  It 
makes  a  nice  dessert  with  white  cake. 

Various  other  fruits  may  also  be  combined  for  fruit  desserts. 


422  DESSERTS 

such  as  strawberries,  raspberries,  currants,  peaches,  etc.,  and  thus  a 
variety  of  pleasing  combinations  and  flavors  can  be  produced.  Ex- 
ercise your  ingenuity  in  devising  new  combinations. 

FRUIT  DESSERT  No.  3-— Put  4  cups  of  sliced  apples  or 
peaches  or  pears  (or  2  cups  of  any  nice  canned  fruit)  in  a  pudding 
dish  and  set  it  on  the  stove  to  heat,  while  a  batter  is  whisked  to  pour 
over  it.  Make  the  batter  with  2  beaten  eggs,  2  cups  sweet  milk,  2 
tablespoons  melted  butter,  2|  cups  sifted  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  When  the  fruit  is  bubbling  hot, 
pour  the  batter  over  it,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  it  is  thoroughly 
done.  Serve  warm  with  cream  and  sugar.  Many  varieties  can  be 
thus  produced. 

FRUIT  WHIP. — Take  either  raspberries,  strawberries,  peaches, 
nectarines,  apricots,  pears  or  other  fruit,  sweeten  to  taste,  mash,  and 
add  4  well-beaten  eggs  for  every  quart  of  fruit,  stir  together  well  and 
set  on  ice.  Serve  either  with  or  without  cream,  or  with  whipped 
cream  or  mock  whipped  cream. 

LEMON  CREAM — Take  the  pulp  of  1  lemon  cut  fine  with  a 
knife  (not  chopjDed),  add  the  grated  rind,  1  cup  sugar,  and  |  cup 
water  and  bring  to  a  boil;  add  2  well  beaten  eggs  and  1  tablespoon 
flour  rubbed  smooth  in  water;  when  it  thickens  take  from  the  fire. 
Let  it  cool  before  serving. 

ORANGE  DRESSING.— Take  the  juice  of  3  oranges  and  1  lem- 
on; add  ^  cup  sugar  and  1  egg;  beat  all  together,  bring  to  the  boil, 
simmer  5  minutes  and  strain.  Add  a  little  grated  peel  of  orange  and 
lemon  if  desired.  It  makes  an  excellent  dressing  for  fruits  like  sliced 
oranges,  bananas,  etc.     Keep  on  ice  till  ready  to  serve. 

ORANGES  AND  COCOANUT.— Peel  and  slice  oranges,  put  a 
layer  in  a  glass  dish,  sprinkle  on  white  sugar,  cover  with  a  layer  of 
dessicated  or  fresh  grated  cocoanut,  add  another  layer  of  oranges  and 
sugar,  and  so  on  alternately,  with  cocoanut  on  top.  It  should  be  pre- 
pared in  the  morning  and  left  in  a  cool  place,  or  on  ice,  till  tea  time. 
Layers  of  pineapple  can  be  added  also  if  desired.  A  glass  of  lemon 
and  orange  juice  mixed  and  poured  over  all  will  be  an  improvement. 

ORANGE  FLOAT. — Stir  4  tablespoons  sugar  in  4  tablespoons 
water;  pour  on  4  cups  boiling  water  and  stir  in  1  cup  sugar  and  the 
juice  of  1  lemon;  when  it  thickens  (in  about  ^  hour)  take  from  the 
stove,  and  as  it  cools  pour  it  over  5  or  6  sliced  and  seeded  oranges. 
Oranges  and  bananas  mixed  are  also  nice.     It  can  be  eaten  thus,  or 


Desserts  428 

if  desi  '"ed  spread  over  the  top  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  sweetened 
and  fl/ivored  with  a  few  drops  of  vanilla.     Eat  with  cream. 

OI^ANGE  PUDDING.— Peel  3  sweet  oranges,  slice,  take  out 
seeds,  and  pour  on  1  cup  white  sugar.  Let  2  cups  milk  get  boiling 
hot,  add  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten  and  1  teaspoon  of  corn-starch 
made  smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk;  when  thickened  pour  it  over  the 
fruit.  Make  a  meringue  with  the  2  whites  of  eggs  and  1  tablespoon 
of  sugar,  spread  it  on  top,  and  harden  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven 
Serve  cold. 

ORANGE  AND  RHUBARB.— Into  a  fruit 
dish  put  a  layer  of  sliced  oranges,  sprinkle  on 
sugar,  add  a  layer  of  cold  rhubarb  sauce  well 
sweetened,  and  so  on  alternately.  Let  stand  ^ 
hour  before  serving. 

The  Okange  belongs  to  the  citrus  family,  to  which  the 
citron,  lime,  shaddock,  pomaloe,  etc.,  belong.      They  are  all  oeange. 

characterized  by  varying  quantities  of  citric  acid,  citrate  of 

potash  and  sugar  in  their  fleshy  parts.  The  peeled  fruit  contains  about  86%  of 
water,  8  to  lOj^  of  sugar,  and  small  quantities  of  citric  acid,  albumen,  cellulose,  etc. 
In  buying  oranges  remember  that  the  sweetest  ones  have  rough,  reddish  skins, 
while  those  with  a  thin,  light  yellow  skin,  will  be  more  juicy,  but  also  more  acid. 
They  are  not  ripe  when  picked  if  they  have  a  greenish  tinge.  Oil  of  neroli  is  ob- 
tained from  orange  flowers.     The  fruit  is  quite  wholesome. 

PEAR  MERINGUE — Cook  8  canned  pears  in  their  syrup  until 
clear  and  the  syrup  is  thickened,  then  lay  them  in  a  glass  dish,  or 
one  that  may  be  sent  to  the  table.  Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth  with  sugar,  spread  it  over  the  pears  and  brown  the  top  in 
the  oven.     Serve  with  cake — sponge  cake  is  nice  with  it. 

Other  canned  fruits  can  be  prepared  the  same  way,  and  many  varie- 
ties produced. 

PEAR  FLUMMERY — Line  a  dish  with  lady  fingers,  or  any  kind 
of  stale,  plain  cake;  pour  on  a  thin  boiled  custard,  and  on  this  spread 
a  layer  of  sliced  and  sugared  j)ears;  cover  it  with  a  frosting  made  of 
the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  with  xoulverized  sugar.     Serve  at  once. 

Peach  Flummery  can  be  made  the  same  way  by  using  peaches 
instead  of  the  pears. 

Oranges,  plums,  bananas  or  other  fresh  fruits  can  also  be  used, 
thus  producing  various  kinds  of  flummery. 

Also  any  good  jam,  jelly,  marmalade  or  fruit  sauce  can  be  used 
instead  of  the  pears,  and  many  varieties  can  thus  be  made. 

PEACHES  AND  RICE.— Spread  a  layer  of  plain  boiled  rice  on 
a  platter,  s^jrinkle  sugar  over  it,  on  this  put  a  layer  of  pared  and 
sliced  peaches,  sxjrinkle  sugar  over  the  whole  and  serve  with  cream 


424  DESSERTS 

PINEAPPLE  PUDDING.— To  5  eggs  add  1  grated  pineapple,  1 
cup  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk  and  a  little  salt;  boil  until  thick,  in  a 
double  boiler,  pour  into  a  mold  and  set  on  ice  till  cold.  Serve  with 
whipped  or  our  mock  whipped  cream. 

PRUNE  WHIP — Take  2  cups  prunes,  sweeten  to  taste  and  stew; 
when  cold  add  whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  stifp,  stir  all  together  till 
light,  put  in  a  dish  and  bake  20  minutes.     Serve  with  cream. 

Other  fruit  whips  can  be  made  the  same  way. 

FRUIT  PUFFS — Take  |  teacup  of  sugar,  ^  teacup  of  milk,  2 
eggs,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  flour  to 
make  a  batter  a  trifle  thicker  than  for  griddle  cakes;  stir  in  a  cup  of 
seeded  and  chopped  raisins  or  other  fruit.  Butter  teacups  and  fill  ^ 
full  of  batter,  set  the  cups  in  a  steamer,  put  on  the  cover  and  steam  1 
hour.  This  quantity  will  make  6  cups.  Eat  hot  with  orange  pud- 
ding sauce. 

QUINCE  SNOW.— Take  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  ^  cup  sugar,  and  5 
oz.  of  quince  marmalade;  put  it  in  a  dish  shaped  like  a  pyramid,  and 
bake  it  a  light  yellow.  Use  other  marmalades  the  same  way,  and  so 
produce  many  varieties. 

SAGO  WITH  FRUIT.— Take  1  cup  sago 
and  soak  it  in  half  milk  and  water;  then  add  1 
quart  of  boiling  milk,  stirring  until  it  becomes 
thick,  and  let  it  cool.  Put  a  layer  of  peaches, 
pears,  strawberries,  raspberries,  bananas,  pine- 
apple, oranges,  or  any  other  fruit  preferred,  into 
a  pudding  dish,  using  a  little  sugar  if  needed; 
then  put  on  a  layer  of  sago;  then  another  of 
fruit,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Set  it  on 
ice;  serve  with  sweetened  cream. 

Sago  is  a  starch   obtained   mainly  from  the  pith   of  ^^°*^  palm. 

the  sago  palm.  A  single  tree  is  said  to  yield  500  to  600  lbs.  of  sago.  It  is  mainly 
starch,  is  easily  di;;ested  and  so  is  adapted  to  invalids,  but  is  not  very  nutritious. 
Portland  sago,  or  Portland  arrowroot  is  a  starch  obtained  from  the  tubers  of  a 
species  of  arum. 

STRAWBERRY  FOAM.— Take  1  quart  strawberries,  crush, 
sprinkle  on  ^  cup  sugar  and  set  in  a  cool  place  till  serving  time. 
Beat  2  eggs  stiff,  add  2  tablespoons  sugar,  stir  into  the  crushed  straw- 
berries and  serve,  decorated  with  large  ripe  berries. 

Raspberries  and  other  fruits  can  be  used  the  same  way,  thus  produc- 
ing several  varieties. 

TAPIOCA  WITH  FRUIT.— Pick  over  and  wash  ^  cup  pearl  tap- 
oca;  put  it  in  3  cups  boiling  water  and  cook  1  hour,  or  till  soft  and 


DESSEKTS  425 

transparent,  stirring  often;  add  1  scant  teaspoon  of  salt,  ^  cup  sugar, 
and  I  cup  currant  jelly;  stir  till  the  jelly  is  all  dissolved,  pour  into  a 
mold,  and  serve  very  cold  with  sugar  and  cream.  Instead  of  the  jelly, 
^  cup  lemon  juice,  or  any  acid  fruit  jelly  may  be  used;  or  use  1  cup 
canned  apricot,  peach  or  quinc«. 

In  their  season  2  cups  of  ripe  strawberries,  raspberries,  black- 
berries, chopped  peaches,  pears,  or  other  fruits  can  be  used  instead 
of  the  jelly,  adding  more  sugar.  These  make  delicious  summer 
desserts. 

TURON — Whip  the  whites  of  4  eggs  to  a  stifp  froth;  chop  7  oz. 
of  almonds,  and  sprinkle  by  degrees  into  the  egg;  work  in  sufficient 
sugar  to  make  a  flexible  paste,  stirring  well  the  whole  time.  Flavor 
with  lemon  essence,  and  put  into  a  mold. 

This  recipe  may  be  varied  by  using  chestnuts,  walnuts  or  pea- 
nuts instead  of  the  almonds,  thus  producing  several  varieties. 

FRUIT  TRIFLE — Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  to  a  stifp  froth;  add 
2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  the  same  of  raspberry  jam  and  currant 
jelly.     Eat  with  sponge  cake,  and  it  is  delicious. 

MOCK  STRAWBERRIES.— Peel  and  cut  rhubarb  in  small 
pieces  and  boil  until  tender;  drain,  and  add  4  tablespoons  of  straw- 
berry juice  to  each  pound  of  rhubarb;  add  enough  molasses  to 
sweeten  and  color  a  pale  pink.  Serve  as  cold  as  possible.  (2)  An- 
other dessert  may  be  made  by  putting  slices  of  sponge  cake  in  a 
dish;  prepare  the  fruit  as  above,  and  while  warm  pour  it  over  the 
cake;  when  cold  cover  the  top  with  custard  or  whipped  cream. 

Mock  Raspberries  may  be  made  the  same  way,  using  raspberry 
instead  of  strawberry  juice. 

As  rhubarb  possesses  the  property  of  absorbing  the  taste  of 
other  fruits  it  can  be  made  to  taste  exactly  like  them  by  being  mixed 
with  them  and  allowed  to  stand  for  a  time.  Pumpkin  will  absorb  the 
taste  of  other  fruits  in  the  same  way. 

Mock  Strawberries  No.  2. — Use  1  part  apples  to  3  parts  peaches;  se- 
lect choice,  ripe  fruit,  and  pare,  core,  and  cut  it  into  dice  about  as 
large  as  strawberries;  put  them  in  a  dish  in  alternate  layers,  spread 
on  sugar  thickly,  and  spread  crushed  ice  on  top;  let  stand  2  or  3 
hours,  and  then  thoroughly  mix  them  together;  serve  after  they  have 
stood  some  time  longer. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI. — Prepare  a  cocoanut  by  opening  the  2  eyes  and 
letting  out  the  milk  which  must  be  strained  and  kept;  break  the  nut 
with  a  hatchet,  or  saw  it  in  two,  take  out  the  meat,  peel  oil'  the  brown 
skin  and  grate.     Cut  2  bananas  in  quarters  lengthwise,  and  then  cut 


426  DESSEKTS 

in  slices.  Have  ready  a  chopped  pineapple,  a  pint  of  strawberiies  or 
raspberries,  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon  and  1  orange. 
Put  a  layer  of  the  fruits  and  cocoanut  in  the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish, 
then  a  layer  of  granulated  sugar,  then  another  layer  of  fruit  and  co- 
coanut and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Pour  over  all,  the  milk  of 
the  cocoanut  and  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  orange.  Dip  from  the 
bottom  when  serving. 

FRUIT  ON  TOAST. — Choose  good  apricots,  halve  them,  remove 
the  stones,  put  each  half  on  a  nice  piece  of  bread,  having  the  hollow 
side  up,  and  arrange  them  in  a  well  buttered  dish;  put  a  little  butter 
in  the  hollow  of  each  piece  of  fruit,  sprinkle  on  sugar,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  about  25  or  30  minutes.  When  done,  put  them  in  a 
dish,  pour  over  them  the  syrup  from  the  baking  dish,  and  serve  hot. 
Peaches,  pears,  bananas  and  large  plums  can  be  treated  in  the  same 
way. 

ADDITIONAL  FRUIT  DESSERTS.— There  are  no  more  deli- 
cious or  acceptable  desserts  than  those  made  from  fruits  in  their  sea- 
son. In  addition  to  the  recipes  for  fruit  desserts  given  above  we 
would  refer  our  readers  to  such  recipes  as  those  for  "  Fruit  Ice 
Cream,"  "  Nesselrode  Pudding,"  "  Iced  Strawberry  Pudding,"  "Fro- 
zen Fruit,"  "Fruit  Molds,"  and  several  others  in  our  chapter  on  "Ice 
Cream,  Water  Ices,  etc." 

Also,  in  the  chapter  on  "  Home  Candy  Making,"  see  such  reci- 
pes as  those  for  "  Fruit  Creams,"  "  Cream  Coaled  Fruits,"  "  Cream 
Walnuts,  Dates  Figs,  Cherries,  etc.,"  "  Glaces  "  "  Crystallized  Cher- 
ries," "Crystallized  Nuts,"  "Frosted,  Iced  or  Crystallized  Fruits," 
and  some  others. 

Many  delicious  fruit  desserts  will  also  be  found  in  the  articles  on 
"Cooked  Fruits,"  and  "  Compotes"  (which  see),  and  in  the  chapter 
on  "  Puddings,"  and  several  in  the  following  section  on  "  Gelatine 
Preparations."  By  using  these,  in  addition  to  the  recipes  given 
above,  a  very  extensive  list  of  fruit  desserts  will  be  found. 


DESSERTS  427 

GELATINE  PREPARATIONS. 

TAKE    NOTICE.— A  tablespoonfol  of   gpelatine  weighs  abont  1^^  ounce. 

To  prepare  gelatine  first  soak  it  in  a  small  quantity  of  cold  water, 
and  then  add  hot  water  to  dissolve  it;  or  it  may  be  placed  in  the 
required  amount  of  cold  water  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  range 
where  it  will  heat  and  dissolve  gradually.  About  1  to  1|-  cups  of 
cold  water  to  the  ounce  of  gelatine  is  the  right  proportion. 

Eemember  that  gelatine  should  not  boil,  and  never  needs  cook- 
ing. It  is  a  good  plan  to  strain  it,  after  it  is  dissolved,  through  a 
fine  strainer. 

Gelatine  can  be  used  most  satisfactorily  in  jellies,  blanc  mange, 
creams  and  ices.  Never  use  more  than  will  suffice  to  make  a  jelly 
strong  enough  to  retain  its  form  when  turned  out  of  the  mold.  More 
is  needed  in  summer  than  in  winter,  a  scant  ounce  being  sufficient  in 
summer  for  1  pint  of  liquid,  while  a  little  over  ^  ounce  will  do  in 
winter — this  being  the  rule  for  jellies,  while  creams  require  a  little 
less.  It  is  best  to  set  them  on  ice,  when  possible,  as  soon  as  they  are 
ready. 

Molds  should  be  buttered  or  oiled  to  facilitate  taking  the  jellies 
from  them;  or  they  may  be  wet  with  cold  water  before  filling.  If 
jellies  stick  to  the  molds,  set  them  for  a  moment  in  hot  water,  and 
they  can  be  easily  removed. 

Gelatine  is  prepared  from  the  skin  and  bones  of  animals.  It  requires  a  care- 
ful selection  of  materials  and  cleanly  preparation,  to  obtain  a  wholesome  product. 
The  use  of  white  of  egg  to  clarify  the  jelly  is  not  needed  now,  as  was  formerly 
the  case,  because  the  gelatine  is  clarified  during  the  process  of  manufacture. 

The  changes  of  opinion  regarding  the  nutritive  value  of  gelatine  are  inter- 
esting. In  the  18th  century  gelatine  was  considered  the  most  nourishing  constitu- 
ent of  meat.  About  the  middle  of  the  19th  century  the  French  Academy  of  Science 
made  a  special  investigation  of  the  subject,  and  as  a  result  a  complete  change  of 
opinion  took  place.  It  was  shown  that  gelatine  alone  could  not  sustain  life,  a 
reaction  occurred,  and  very  mistakenly  all  food  value  was  denied  it.  Further  ex- 
periments, however,  have  put  it  in  its  right  place,  and  it  is  now  admitted  that 
while  it  cannot  sustain  life  alone,  it  has  some  value  as  food,  biit  it  must  hold  a 
subordinate  place,  and  it  is  only  valuable  when  eaten  with  other  things  which  sup- 
ply the  elements  which  it  lacks.  It  has  some  slight  value  in  convalescence,  al- 
though very  much  less  than  many  people  imagine.  When  pure  it  is  tasteless  and 
devoid  of  flavor. 

Isinglass. — This  was  formerly  obtained  from  the  swimming  bladder  of  the 
sturgeon  and  came  from  Russia,  but  now  it  is  obtained  from  many  other  fish  and 
comes  from  South  America,  the  East  Indies,  Canada,  etc.  The  best  is  almost  color- 
less, is  free  from  fish  odor,  taste  and  smell,  and  dissolves  freely  in  any  warm  liquid. 

Chemically  there  is  litttle  difference  between  isingh\ss  and  gelatine,  and  what 
we  say  about  the  nourishing  properties  of  gelatine  applies  equally  to  isinglass. 
Tests:  A  little  pure  isinglass  put  into  cold  water  swells,  and  becomes  soft,  white 
and  opaque,  while  gelatine  will  become  transparent  and  glass=like.  In  hot  water 
isinglass  dissolves  with  little  or  no  residuum,  while  gelatine  leaves  a  considerable 
deposit.  In  vinegar,  isinglass  swells  into  a  jelly  and  all  trace  of  its  structure  is 
soon  destroyed,  while  gelatine  hardens  and  retains  its  form.  These  are  the  best 
tests  for  distinguishing  between  them. 


428  DESSEKTS 

Jelly  of  Different  Colors. — This  can  be  prepared  by  having  jelly  of 
the  desired  colors  prepared  separately;  then  put  a  little  of  one  in  a 
mold  and  let  it  cool;  then  pour  in  a  little  of  the  other  and  let  that  cool, 
and  so  on,  allowing  each  layer  to  set  before  putting  in  the  next. 
Blanc  mange  and  jelly  can  be  combined  thus  very  prettily. 

ALMOND  BLANC  MANGE.— Put  an  ounce  of  gelatine  to  soak 
in  a  teacup  of  cold  water;  set  on  the  stove  where  it  will  heat  gradual- 
ly and  dissolve.  Blanch  24  sweet  almonds,  and  pound  them  in  a 
mortar;  mix  with  1  pint  of  milk  and  1  pint  of  cream,  scald  the  mix- 
ture in  a  double  boiler,  or  tin  pail  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water; 
sweeten  to  taste,  add  the  dissolved  gelatine,  stir  thoroughly,  and  pour 
into  a  mold  to  set. 

BANANAS  IN  JELLY. — Prepare  the  gelatine,  sweeten  it,  and 
when  cool  put  a  layer  of  sliced  bananas  and  oranges  in  the  bottom 
of  a  prepared  mold  or  glass  dish,  then  pour  on  a  little  of  the  gel- 
atine, let  it  set,  and  then  put  in  another  layer  of  fruit,  and  so  on 
alternately  until  the  dish  is  full;  set  on  ice  till  ready  to  serve. 
Bananas  and  strawberries  can  be  used  the  same  way.  For  a  variety, 
soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water,  and  then  dissolve  it  in  hot  lemonade; 
then  use  it  with  the  fruit  as  above. 

APPLES  IN  JELLY — Choose  tart,  medium  sized  apples,  pare, 
core,  and  simmer  them  till  tender;  skim  out  the  apples  but  retain  the 
liquor  they  were  cooked  in  and  to  it  add  1  cuj)  sugar  for  each  pound 
of  fruit;  boil,  skim,  put  in  the  apples  (keeping  them  whole)  and  cook 
till  they  are  clear.  Slice  lemons,  remove  the  seeds,  and  cook  them 
with  the  apples,  using  1  lemon  for  each  |  doz.  apples.  Skim  out  the 
apples,  put  them  in  the  dish  in  which  they  are  to  be  served,  and  on 
each  one  put  a  slice  of  lemon.  Into  the  syrup  pour  gelatine,  which 
have  previously  dissolved  and  ready,  (using  about  1  oz.  of  gelatine 
for  6  or  8  apples);  stir  till  cool,  strain  it  over  the  fruit,  set  away  to 
cool,  and  serve  with  cream. 

CHOCOLATE  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE.— Cover  1  ounce  of  gelatine 
with  cold  water,  shave  3  ounces  of  Baker's  jjrepared  cocoa,  and  mix  it 
with  1  pint  of  sweet  cream  and  the  gelatine.  Put  it  in  a  porcelain 
kettle  over  a  slow  fire,  and  stir  it  until  it  boils  and  is  well  mixed. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  8  eggs  and  whites  of  4  together  until  very  light; 
then  stir  them  in  the  mixture,  with  ^  lb.  of  white  sugar;  simmer  it 
over  the  fire  but  do  not  let  it  boil;  pour  it  in  a  bowl  and  whip  it  to  a 
strong  froth.  Having  lined  your  pans  or  molds  with  sponge  cake  fill 
them  with  the  mixture  and  set  them  on  ice,  or  in  a  cool  place. 


GELATINE  PREPAEATIONS  429 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE.  (  Without  eggs).— Soak  2  tablespoons  of 
gelatine  in  a  little  cold  milk  2  hours.  Take  2  coffee=cups  cream,  1 
teacup  milk;  whip  the  cream  stiff  in  a  large  bowl;  set  on  ice.  Boil 
the  milk  and  pour  gradually  over  the  gelatine  until  dissolved,  then 
strain;  when  nearly  cold  add  the  whipped  cream,  a  spoonful  at  a 
time.  Sweeten  with  pulverized  sugar,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Line 
a  dish  with  lady-fingers  or  sponge=cake;  pour  in  the  cream  and  set 
in  a  cool  place  to  harden. 

CALF'S  FOOT  JELLY.— Boil  2  calves'  feet  in  4  quarts  of  water 
until  it  is  reduced  to  1  quart;  strain,  let  it  get  cold,  and  take  off  the 
fat;  then  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  7  eggs,  the  juice  of  4  lemons, 
and  1  cup  of  sugar;  mix  thoroughly  and  boil,  with  constant  stirring, 
for  about  a  minute,  and  stir  through  a  bag  of  flannel. 

CIDER  JELLY — Take  1|  oz.  gelatine,  the  juice  of  b  lemons  and 
the  grated  rind  of  1;  add  2  cups  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  1  hour; 
then  add  2^  lbs.  loaf  sugar,  3  pints  boiling  water,  and  1  pint  boiled 
cider;  put  into  molds,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

COFFEE  JELLY. — Take  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  strong  coffee,  3 
cups  boiling  w^ater,  and  1  box  gelatine.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold 
water,  then  put  the  boiling  water  on  it;  then  stir  the  coffee  and  sugar 
in  it,  and  place  in  molds.  Eat  it  with  whipped  cream.  Whipped 
cream  piled  around  it  makes  it  a  very  elegant  dish. 

ENGLISH  CREAM  JELLY — Mix.  8  beaten  egg  yolks  with  10 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  1  of  good  vanilla  flavoring.  Stir  this  into  1 
quart  of  milk,  and  stir  over  the  fire  till  it  thickens.  Strain,  and  stir 
occasionally  till  cool.  Having  soaked  2  ounces  gelatine  in  a  pint  of 
cold  water,  add  to  it  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  and,  when  dissolved  and 
smooth,  strain  into  the  cream  and  put  into  wet  molds. 

.  For  Chocolate  Cream  proceed  as  above,  omitting  the  vanilla,  and 
adding  ^  lb.  of  melted  chocolate.  Cooled  in  layers,  with  yellow 
cream,  it  makes  a  very  handsome  dish. 

GOOSEBERRY  CREAM — Take  off  the  tops  and  stalks  from  | 
cup  of  gooseberries,  and  stew  them  in  1  plump  half  cup  of  sugar  in  ^ 
cup  of  water;  then  pulp  through  a  sieve.  Melt  1  oz.  gelatine  in  ^ 
cup  of  milk.  Whip  1  cup  of  cream  well  and  stir  lightly  in  with  the 
pulp;  add  the  gelatine  and  milk,  and  stir  till  nearly  cold.  Put  into 
a  mold  and  cool. 

LEMON  GELATINE. — Use  ^  box  of  gelatine  covered  with  1  cup 
of  cold  water;  let  stand  ^  hour;  add  3  cups  boiling  water,  2  cups  of 
sugar  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons;  let  stand  until  all  is  dissolved,  strain 
and  put  in  a  mold. 


430  DESSERTS 

LEMON  CREAM. — Take  the  juice  of  4  lemons,  strain,  and  add 
1|  cups  sugar;  dissolve  ^  box  of  gelatine,  and  add  that"  and  the 
strained  lemon  juice  to  3  cups  of  cream  whipped  till  stiff.  Pour  into 
a  mold,  set  on  ice,  and  serve  cold. 

COCOANUT  CREAM — In  1  cup  of  milk  dissolve  f  box  of  gela- 
tine; strain,  and  when  cool  add  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  of  either  desicca- 
ted or  fresh  grated  cocoanut,  and  2  cups  of  cream  whipped  until  stiff; 
then  put  it  in  a  mold  and  set  it  on  the  ice. 

LEMON  JELLY — Place  |  box  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  cold  water, 
and  set  it  on  the  stove  where  it  will  heat  and  dissolve  gradually. 
When  dissolved,  add  another  x^int  of  hot  water,  and  sugar  and  lemon 
juice  to  taste — about  2  lemons,  if  small,  will  suit  the  taste  of  most 
people,  but  the  more  lemon  juice,  the  more  sugar.  Make  it  a  day 
before  using,  and  set  in  the  ice^chest  to  harden;  serve  with  thick 
whipped  cream,  or  our  mock  whipped  cream,  given  among  the  fill- 
ings for  layer  cakes. 

LEMON  JELLY  AND  CREAM— Place  a  mold  of  vanilla  cream 
on  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  sent  to  the  table;  cut  another 
mold  of  lemon  jelly  in  pieces,  or  break  it  with  a  spoon  to  a  quiv- 
ering mass,  for  a  garnish.  Serve  a  portion  of  each  to  a  person;  the 
combined  flavor  is  delicious. 

LEMON  WHIP — Cover  ^  box  of  gelatine  with  4  tablespoons  of 
cold  water;  let  stand  ^  hour  and  add  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  ^  cup 
sugar,  the  juice  of  1  small  lemon  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla;  stir 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  set  in  a  cold  place  to  stiffen.  When 
congealed,  but  not  really  hard,  add  the  unbeaten  whites  of  2  eggs, 
and  beat  all  to  a  stiff  white  froth.  Turn  into  a  pudding  mold  and 
set  aside  several  hours  to  harden.  Serve  with  vanilla  sauce  made 
from  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  2  cups  of  milk  v/ith  vanilla  flavoring. 

GELATINE  FROZEN  PUDDING.— Soak  |  box  gelatine  in  2 
cups  cold  water  for  |  hour;  pour  on  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  and 
stir  till  it  is  all  dissolved.  Set  away  to  cool  until  it  begins  to  jelly, 
then  stir  in  2  oranges  cut  in  small  pieces,  2  bananas  sliced,  12 
English  walnuts,  6  figs.  Eat  with  whipped,  or  mock  whipped 
cream,  or  soft  custard.  It  will  keep  on  ice  for  several  days.  One= 
half  this  will  be  enough  for  5  or  G  persons. 

MOCK  ICE — Rub  3  tablespoons  of  some  good  preserve  through 
a  sieve  with  enough  milk  to  fill  a  quart  mold.  Dissolve  |  oz.  of 
gelatine  in  1  cup  milk,  mix  well  with  the  above,  put  it  in  a  mold, 
set  in  a  cool  place  and  turn  out  the  next  day. 


GELATINE  PKEPARATIONS  431 

MACEDONIAN  JELLY.— Put  2  ounces  of  gelatine  in  3  pints 
of  cold  water  and  place  it  on  the  stove,  where  it  will  heat  gradually 
and  dissolve.  Add  to  the  hot  gelatine  the  strained  juice  of  2  lemons, 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Cool  a  little  of  the  jelly  in  a  mold  by  setting 
it  on  ice;  when  solid,  add  a  layer  of  nicely- washed  Zante  currants, 
seeded  raisins,  and  stoned  dates,  then  cover  the  fruit  with  more  of 
the  warm  jelly;  harden  again  on  the  ice,  and  repeat  the  process  until 
the  mold  is  full.  Fresh  grated  or  desiccated  cocoanut  may  be  used 
instead  of  fruit  if  preferred. 

ORANGE  DESSERT — Dissolve  ^  box  or  gelatine  in  2  cups 
cold  water;  add  2  cups  boiling  water,  2  cups  sugar  and  the  juice 
and  pulp  of  1  lemon.  Slice  8  oranges,  put  them  in  a  dish,  and 
pour  the  mixture  over  them.  Keep  in  a  cool  place  till  ready  to 
serve. 

Other  Fruits  can  be  prepared  with  gelatine  in  the  same  way. 

ORANGE  CREAM — In  2  cups  of  water  dissolve  1  oz.  of  gel- 
atine;  strain  it,  and  add  1^  cups  sugar,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  the 
juice  of  8  oranges,  with  the  grated  rind  of  1  orange,  and  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Put  it  over  a  gentle  fire,  stir  until  it  just 
boils  (no  more),  pour  it  into  a  mold,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place. 

ORANGE  JELLY — For  delicious  orange  jelly,  which  does  not 
require  boiling,  take  4  good-sized  oranges,  grate  the  rind  of  2  and 
use  the  juice  and  pulp  of  2  lemons;  take  ^  box  of  gelatine,  and 
soak  it  in  1  cup  of  cold  water;  sweeten  to  suit  the  taste,  and 
put  with  the  juice  of  the  fruit,  and  add  |  of  a  pint  of  boiling  water. 
Strain  into  molds. 

ORANGE  JELLY  (i^renc/0.— Swell  2  oz.  of  gelatine  in  2  quarts 
of  cold  water,  with  12  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
beaten  to  a  froth;  strain  through  a  wet  napkin  into  an  earthen  dish; 
add  the  rind  of  4  very  fair  oranges,  pared  very  thin;  cover,  and 
partly  cool;  add  the  juice  of  8  oranges  and  2  lemons;  strain,  and  mix 
with  the  other  ingredients.  A  few  drops  of  yellow  coloring  is  an 
improvement.     It  is  then  ready  for  cooling. 

PEACH  CREAM — Cut  a  can  of  peaches  into  very  small  pieces; 
dissolve  -|  a  box  of  gelatine  by  heating  it  slowly,  on  the  back  of  the 
range,  in  a  coffee=cup  of  cold  water;  then  mix  the  fruit  and  gelatine, 
and  when  partly  cooled,  beat  a  pint  of  sweet  crean^  until  stiff;  add 
sugar  to  taste.     Mix  all  together  and  pour  into  a  mold  to  harden. 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM — Peel  and  shred  a  pineapple,  add  §  cup 
s>f  powdered  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  beat  till  stiff  1  cup  sweet 


m  DESSERTS 

cream;  dissolve  1  oz.  isinglass  in  a  little  hot  water;  mix  all  together 
lightly  and  jDour  into  a  mold;  serve  cold. 

PINEAPPLE  JELLY.— (1)  Slice  pineappio  thinly,  sprinkle  it 
with  sugar,  and  let  stand  2  or  3  hours;  make  a  stiff  jelly  v/ith  gelatine 
and  when  cool  enough  to  begin  to  thicken  put  a  layer  of  the  pineap- 
ple in  a  glass  dish,  cover  it  with  the  jelly  and  when  it  sets  add  more 
fruit,  and  so  on  alternately  until  the  dish  is  full;  then  set  on  ice. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  our  mock  whipi)ed  cream.  (2)  For  a 
variety  alternate  layers  of  pineapple  and  sliced  orange  can  be  used, 
sprinkling  on  lemon  juice  and  sugar;  serve  cold  without  cream. 

PRUNE  JELLY — Soak  1  lb.  of  prunes  in  1  quart  of  water  3 
hours;  drain  them,  and  strain  the  water  in  which  you  soaked  them; 
put  it  on  the  range,  with  1  lb.  of  sugar,  and  let  it  boil  -^  hour.  Re- 
move the  stones  from  the  prunes  and  put  them  into  the  boiling  syr- 
up, and  boil  it  up  again;  have  -^  box  gelatine  which  has  been  soaked 
in  a  little  cold  water  and  stir  it  into  the  boiling  prunes.  Pour  into 
wet  molds,  and  set  to  harden  in  a  cold  place.  Serve  with  sugar  and 
cream,  or  whipped  cream,  or  our  mock  whipped  cream.  If  desired 
for  a  variety  the  juice  of  2  oranges  and  that  of  2  lemons,  with  2 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  can  be  added  with  the  gelatine. 

RICE  CREAM — Thicken  a  pint  of  new  milk  with  rice  flour  to 
the  consistency  of  cream;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Beat  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  ^  ounce  of  gelatine  in  -^  pint 
cold  water;  when  well  soaked  place  over  the  fire  until  the  gelatine  is 
dissolved.  When  cold  beat  to  a  froth  with  an  egg=beater  and  mix 
with  an  egg.     This  is  excellent  for  inflammation  of  the  bowels. 

RUSSIAN  JELLY — Dissolve  1  ounce  of  gelatine  in  1^  cups  of 
cold  water,  by  placing  it  over  a  moderate  heat;  when  warm  and 
thoroughly  dissolved,  add  the  juice  of  -^  a  lemon,  and  sugar  to  taste; 
stir  all  together  until  well  mixed,  and  the  sugar  melted;  flavor  with 
extract  of  anise  seed,  strain,  and  when  nearly  cold  beat  to  a  froth 
with  an  egg-beater,  then  pour  into  a  mold,  and  place  in  the  ice= 
chest  to  harden.  A  little  raspberry,  or  other  fruit  juice  may  be  used 
for  coloring,  if  preferred. 

RUSSIAN  CREAM— r/ie  Jell!].— To  1  package  of  gelatine  add  1 
pint  of  cold  water.  When  dissolved  add  1  pint  of  hot  water,  2  cups 
of  f  ugar,  juice  of  6  lemons.  Stir  slowly  until  well  dissolved,  then 
strain  into  molds.  The  Cream. — Cover  1  package  of  gelatine  with 
cold  water.  When  dissolved  add  1  cup  of  new  milk,  1  cuj)  sugar; 
ke»,t  to  boiling  point,  stirring  frequently;   then  set  away   to   cool 


GELATINE  PKEPAEATIONS  438 

Whip  1  quart  of  thick  cream  until  light,  beat  the  whites  of  6  eggs, 
and  add  both  to  the  mixture;  when  cool  flavor  with  vanilla.  Place 
the  jelly  in  the  bottom  of  the  molds,  and  when  stiff  and  cold  add  the 
cream-,  turn  out  of  the  mold  and  serve  in  slices. 

STRAWBERRY  JELLY.— Mash  a  quart  of  strawberries,  add  a 
coffee-cup  of  water,  and  let  them  stand  where  they  will  become 
hot,  but  not  boil,  while  ^  a  box  of  gelatine,  in  a  pint  of  cold  water,  is 
gradually  dissolving  and  heating,  on  the  back  of  the  range.  Strain 
the  strawberry  juice  into  the  gelatine,  and  add  sugar  to  taste;  place  it 
in  .a  mold  to  harden  in  the  refrigerator.  The  juice  of  half  a  lemon 
can  be  added  if  desired,  and  it  can  be  served  plain,  or  with  whipped 
cream  alone,  or  with  whipped  cream  and  sponge  cake. 

The  juice  of  other  berries  can  be  used  instead,  such  as  currants, 
raspberries,  etc.,  and  so  varieties  can  be  made. 

SPANISH  CREAM.— Put  ^  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  1|  pints  of 
milk  and  soak  1^  hours;  then  simmer  slowly,  and  add  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs  beaten  with  1  cup  sugar;  add  a  i^inch  of  salt  and  any  flavoring 
desired.  Let  the  mixture  cool  a  little,  and  add  the  3  welhbeaten 
whites;  turn  in  glasses  or  custard- cups,  and  serve  cold. 

SNOW  PUDDING.— Use  1  pint  water,  1  cup  sugar,  juice  of  1 
lemon,  ^  package  of  gelatine;  dissolve  and  strain  into  cups  or  molds, 
enough  for  each  person;  let  stand  until  partly  cool.  Beat  the  whites 
of  2  eggs  stiff,  and  stir  a  portion  into  each  cup  with  a  fork;  it  will 
look  exactly  like  snowflakes  all  over  the  pudding.  With  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  make  a  thin  custard  for  sauce.  Put  the  molded  pudding 
into  sauce  plates,  and  pour  the  custard  around  each  when  served. 
Good  for  Sunday  dinner  as  it  can  be  made  Saturday  and  kept  in  a 
cool  jplace,  and  is  better  than  when  first  made. 

VELVET  CREAM — Soak  |  box  gelatine  in  1  cup  warm  water, 
adding  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons  and  two  cujds  sugar; 
heat  and  stir  till  it  dissolves,  but  do  not  let  it  boil;  when  nearly  cold, 
but  before  it  begins  to  stiffen,  add  the  cream  and  beat  thoroughly 
together  until  stiff;  then  pour  into  molds,  and  set  on  ice  to  harden. 
Half  fill  the  molds  first  with  nice  strawberries,  raspberries,  or  other 
fruits,  if  desired,  for  a  variety. 

VANILLA  CREAM — Soak  1  ounce  of  gelatine  in  cold  water  1 
hour,  drain  and  dissolve  in  a  little  hot  water.  Thoroughly  beat  the 
whites  of  6  eggs  and  beat  in  1  quart  of  whipped  cream,  add  sugar  to 
sweeten,  and  flavor  with  1^  teaspoons  of  vanilla;  then  add  the  gela- 
tine, beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken  and  pour  into  molds.  Serve 
very  cold  with  cream. 

28 


ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND 
SHERBETS. 

fCE  creams  and  ices  can  be  easily  prepared  at  home,  and  without 
much  expense  or  labor.  Many  people  do  not  realize  how  easily 
many  wholesome  and  attractive  dishes  can  be  prepared  in  this 
way. 

Cream. — Cream  which  is  skimmed  off  of  milk  after  it  has  stood  12 
hours  is  called  single  cream;  that  which  is  taken  off  at  the  end  of  24 
hours  is  called  double  cream,  and  that  taken  off  at  the  end  of  36 
hours  is  called  butter  cream..  The  best  double  cream,  and  which  can 
all  be  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  is  obtained  by  letting  "  single  cream  " 
stand  12  hours,  and  then  taking  off  the  richer  part.  The  best  cream 
to  use  is  "  double  cream,"  the  next  best  is  "  single  cream."  If  any 
milk  is  used  it  is  apt  to  give  the  ice  cream  a  mushy,  snowy  taste, 
because  the  water  it  contains  will  freeze  into  coarse  crystals,  and  it 
melts  quicker  than  when  i^ure  cream  is  used.  Gelatine  is  sometimes, 
added  to  such  cream  to  give  it  firmness  and  disguise  the  milk. 
There  are  many  so  called  ice  creams  made  with  corn=starch,  etc., 
without  using  any  cream  at  all;  of  course  real  cream  is  superior  to 
any  substitute,  but  for  economy's  sake  the  substitutes  are  often  used. 
The  more  water  and  less  cream  used,  the  easier  ices  are  frozen. 
When  short  of  cream  it  is  well  to  remember  that  to  add  a  little,  if  not 
more  than  ^  teacup,  is  always  better  than  to  use  none. 

Condensed  MHk  can  be  used  by  mixing  it  with  scalded  milk  (1  can 
of  condensed  milk  to  1^  quarts  of  scalded  milk)  making  it  into  a 
thick  custard,  and  freezing  it;  flavor  to  taste,  but  rather  highly. 

Sugar. — Double  refined  or  sifted  white  sugar  is  the  best  to  use. 
See  what  we  say  about  eggs  in  the  introduction  to  our  article  on 
"Cake."  Ice  cream  should  seem  quite  sweet  before  freezing,  as 
when  frozen  it  seems  less  so. 

Arrowroot,  etc — A  little  arrowroot  added  to  the  plainer  creams 
gives  them  a  smooth  consistency,  but  the  best  creams  are  made  with- 
out it.  Arrowroot  is  more  delicate  and  better  to  use  than  corn= starch 
or  flour  in  creams. 

Ice. — The  best  ice  to  use  is  snowy  ice  which  is  full  of  air=holes, 
and  is  readily  penetrated  by  the  salt.  The  ice  is  most  readily  broken 
up  by  putting  it  in  a  coarse  bag  or  coffee-sack,  and  pounding  it  witii 

434 


ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS        435 

an  ax  or  wooden  mallet  nntil  it  is  broken  into  pieces  about  as  large 
as  walnuts.  The  finer  it  is  broken  the  faster  it  melts.  Snow  makes 
an  excellent  substitute  for  ice,  and  in  winter  can  readily  be  used. 
Pack  it  firmly  into  the  freezer,  add  enough  water  to  make  it  into  a 
thick  mush,  and  then  put  in  the  salt.  The  proportion  is  about  2  to  3 
parts  snow  or  ice,  to  1  part  salt.  It  is  not  necessary  to  draw  ofp  the 
water  as  fast  as  the  ice  melts,  but  wait  until  it  floats  the  ice. 

Salt. — The  best  salt  to  use  is  Turk's  Island  salt;  rock  salt  is  next. 
For  the  first  freezing  have  it  coarsely  ground,  and  have  it  in  small 
lumps  for  the  "  packing  down "  after  the  freezing  is  done.  Fine 
table  salt  melts  the  ice  too  rapidly  and  is  not  suitable.  When 
through  with  a  freezer,  any  salt  left  in  it  may  be  drained,  dried,  and 
used  again. 

Canned  fruits,  etc.,  when  used  in  creams,  should  be  opened  an 
hour  before  using,  and  turned  into  a  pitcher  to  aerate;  this  improves 
their  flavor  very  much. 

For  extracting  lemon  juice  a  glass  squeezer  is  best.  If  a  metal  one 
is  used,  do  not  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  and  then  use  it  again  with- 
out washing,  as  the  acid  will  attack  the  metal,  and  so  taint  the  flavor. 

Orange  juice  can  be  extracted,  without  any  bitter  flavor,  by  cutting 
the  orange  in  two,  removing  the  pulp  with  a  teaspoon,  and  straining 
it  through  a  piece  of  clean  cheese  cloth. 

Flavoring. — Ice  creams  should  seem  quite  highly  flavored  before 
being  frozen,  as  after  freezing  they  will  seem  less  so. 

The  Freezer. — Buy  a  freezer  larger  than  you  actually  need  to  hold 
the  cream  to  be  frozen.  Cream  is  better  if  there  is  room  allowed  for 
air,  and  this  is  especially  true  of  sherbets  and  water  ices;  besides  this 
the  cream  expands  ^  to  |  in  freezing,  so  that  it  is  better  not  to  fill 
the  can  more  than  ^  full.  Less  ice  and  salt  are  required  in  propor- 
tion to  their  contents  by  large  than  by  small  freezers. 

When  not  in  use,  the  can  of  a  freezer  should  be  kept  uncovered. 
After  being  used  it  should  be  cleaned,  scalded,  and  thoroughly  dried 
before  being  put  away. 

Freezing  the  Cream. — Before  beginning  to  freeze  ice  cream  let 
it  stand  in  the  freezing=can,  packed  with  ice,  but  covered  only  with 
gauze,  until  it  is  thoroughly  chilled;  if  this  is  done  it  will  freeze  more 
readily  and  take  less  ice,  and  also,  if  not  cooked,  it  is  apt  to  become 
granular,  or  curdle,  if  the  attempt  is  made  to  freeze  it  while  warm  or 
lukewarm. 

There  are  many  freezing=machines  on  the  market  which  are 
nearly  equal  in  value,  and  less  ice  is  required  by  them  than  by  an 


436        ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS 

open  pail.  Dii^ections  for  using  the  diflPerent  machines  are  fur- 
nished with  them,  and  we  advise  those  who  can  do  so  to  get  a  good 
freezer  of  some  kind.  Those,  however,  who  have  no  freezer  can  make 
ices  by  using  a  tin  pail  with  a  close  cover,  and  setting  it  in  a  larger 
pail  which  holds  the  ice  and  salt.  First,  pack  in  solidly  a  layer  of 
broken  ice  about  3  inches  deep,  then  set  in  a  pail  containing  the  ice 
cream  mixture,  and  pack  the  ice  and  salt  around  it ;  next  sprinkle  on 
a  layer  of  salt,  then  about  3  times  as  much  ice,  distributing  it  evenly, 
and  packing  it  down  firmly,  then  more  salt,  and  so  on  until  the  freez- 
er is  full,  covering  it  over  the  top  also,  and  then  cover  it  all  over  with 
an  old  carpet  or  blanket.  After  letting  it  chill  for  about  an  hour, 
open  up  the  can,  scrape  the  frozen  cream  from  the  sides,  and  beat  all 
together  thoroughly  until  it '~  smooth;  the  quality  of  the  cream  de- 
pends on  doing  this  thoro  ^hlj  then  turn  off  the  brine,  put  on  fresh 
ice  and  salt,  covering  it  ove.  '\j  top,  lay  on  the  carpet,  and  leave  for 
2  or  3  hours  until  frozen.  The  can  holding  the  mixture  should  have 
a  tight  lid,  so  that  not  a  drop  of  salt  or  brine  can  get  into  the  cream* 

A  litte  ice  cream  for  the  use  of  an  invalid  can  be  put  in  a  baking 
powder  can  or  tin  pail,  packed  in  salt  or  ice  for  10  minutes,  then 
opened  and  stirred  w^ell,  then  let  stand  until  the  freezing  is  complete. 

Do  not  allow  ice  cream  or  fruit  ices  to  stand  long  in  tin  or  copper 
vessels,  certainly  not  when  above  the  freezing  point,  for  the  melting 
cream  will  decompose  and  develop  acetic  acid,  which  will  attack  the 
metal,  producing  a  poisonous  compound. 

Packing  Down. — Newly=frozen  ice  cream  is  apt  to  be  mushy,  and 
lacks  flavor  and  consistence,  so  that  after  being  frozen  it  is  best  to 
pack  it  down  and  let  it  ripen  4  or  5  hours  before  it  is  served.  In 
packing  down  ice  cream  which  is  to  be  kept  some  time,  turn  off  the 
brine,  pack  in  some  coarser  ice  and  salt,  and  cover  with  an  old  carpet 
or  blanket  wet  in  brine.  Keep  the  carpet  wet  by  rewetting  it  from 
time  to  time,  as  then  much  less  ice  is  needed  because  the  evaporation 
keeps  it  cold.  As  long  as  any  ice  lasts  the  temperature  will  not  rise 
above  the  freezing  point. 

The  priyiciples  involved  in  making  ice  cream  are  as  follows:  There  are  varions 
freezing  mixtures  known  and  occasionally  used,  some  of  which  we  give  elsewhere, 
but  for  our  present  purpose  the  ingredients  almost  universally  relied  on  are  ice 
and  salt.  All  freezing  mixtures  have  some  solid  substance  which  turns  to  a  liquid, 
and  in  so  doing  it  absorbs  heat  from  the  surrounding  substances  and  so  reduces 
their  temperature,  and  this  is  the  philosophical  principle  underlying  the  whole  pro- 
cess. The  ice  is  submitted  to  the  action  of  the  salt,  which  has  a  great  affinity  for  it 
and  melts  it  very  rapidly,  and  the  ice  in  turning  to  water  withdraws  heat  rapidly 
from  the  various  preparations  of  cream,  etc..  which  are  buried  in  it.  and  so  reduces 
their  temperature  rapidly  and  freezes  them.  But  from  this  it  will  be  clear  that  the 
cream  will  not  freeze  until  the  ice  around  begins  to  melt.  So  also  the  smaller  the 
pieces  of  ice  the  more  readily  the  salt  will  act  on  them  and  melt  them. 


ICE  CKEAM,  WATEK  ICES  AND  SHERBETS        437 

It  is  a  mistake  to  think  that  the  freezing  needs  to  be  done  in  a  cool  place.  In 
a  warm  room  tlie  ice  melts  more  rapidly,  and  so  draws  the  heat  more  rapidly  from 
the  mixture  submitted  to  its  action;  but  if  the  cream  is  kept  after  being  frozen,  it 
should  be  in  a  cool  place,  of  course. 

The  object  of  the  continual  stirring  of  the  ice  cream  is  to  keep  the  ingredients 
from  separating,  and  the  heaviest  of  them  from  settling  to  the  bottom,  while  any 
cream  which  washes  up  against  the  side  of  the  can  and  freezes  must  be  scraped  off 
and  mixed  in  with  the  balance  of  the  contents.  Unless  the  contents  are  thoroughly 
stirred  before  the  freezing  takes  place  the  whole  will  be  spoiled;  either  lumps 
will  form,  disfiguring  and  discoloring  it,  or  the  sugar  will  settle  to  the  bottom, 
leaving  the  contents  imperfectly  sweetened. 

It  is  a  mistake  to  turn  the  dasher  of  a  freezing  machine  rapidly,  as  that  pre- 
vents the  cream  from  being  smooth;  turn  fast  enough  to  accomplish  the  above  ob- 
jects, but  that  is  all. 

Molds. — Molds  are  prepared  to  form  the  cream  into  many  fanci- 
ful shapes.  If  they  are  used,  after  freezing  the  ice  cream  press  it 
into  them  firmly,  so  that  there  are  no  air  spaces,  have  the  cover 
firmly  pressed  down,  wrap  buttered  paper  around  the  joint,  and  bury 
them  in  ice  and  salt.  When  ready  to  serve  them,  wash  off  the  brine; 
take  off  the  cover,  turn  the  mold  on  to  a  dish,  and  the  ice  cream  will 
soon  slip  out  if  the  room  is  warm.  The  molds  are  sometimes  dipped 
in  warm  water  to  loosen  the  contents,  but  this  is  apt  to  melt  the 
cream  too  much,  and  make  it  run  down  the  sides  and  disfigure  it. 

If  it  is  desired  to  use  2  coJors,  freeze  them  separately,  fit  a  piece 
of  card=board  into  the  mold  which  is  to  be  filled,  pack  in  1  kind  of 
ice  cream  on  each  side,  withdraw  the  card=board,  and  set  the  mold  on 
ice. 

Coloring  Ices. — For  coloring  ices  and  creams,  caramel  can  be  used, 
or  the  amber  color  and  some  of  the  others  mentioned  under  "  Color- 
ings for  Frostings  "  (which  see).  Only  vegetable  colors  should  be 
used. 

Simple  Syrup  can  be  made  by  putting  2  lbs.  of  the  best  lump 
sugar  to  1  quart  of  water;  stir  occasionally  till  it  dissolves,  bring  to  a 
boil,  take  off  any  scum  as  it  rises,  draw  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let 
it  boil  gently  If  boiled  too  fast  it  troubles  an  inexperienced  opera- 
tor, as  it  will  candy.  Should  this  happen,  add  more  water  and  boil 
again  till  the  requisite  strength  is  attained.  Test  it  by  letting  a  drop 
fall  into  a  glass  of  cold  water;  if  it  retains  its  shape  it  will  answer. 
When  cold,  bottle  and  keep  for  use.  It  will  keep  any  length  of  time, 
and  can  be  used  for  many  purposes. 

When  too  much  syrup  is  present  a  mixture  will  not  freeze 
readily.  The  remedy  is  to  thin  it  with  a  proportionate  quantity  of 
liquid,  according  to  the  description  of  ice  you  are  making. 

PHILADELPHIA    ICE    CREAM. 

Philadelphia  ice  creams,  so-called,  are  those  whicn  are  made 
without  eggs  (those  made  with  eggs  are  called  Neapolitan  creams) 


438        lOE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS 

and  many  people  prefer  the  Philadelphia  creams  to  any  others,  as 
they  have  a  light,  snowy  texture. 

Methods  of  Making. — There  are  2  ways  of  making  ice  cream — one 
is  by  cooking  and  the  other  is  without  cooking  the  cream  and  sugar. 
It  is  a  little  less  work  to  make  it  without  cooking,  and  the  texture  is 
white  and  snowy,  but  cooking  not  only  prevents  any  tendency  to 
curdling,  but  also  gives  the  cream  more  richness  and  body.  If  the 
cream  is  cooked,  put  it  in  a  double  boiler,  set  it  on  the  stove  and  stir 
often;  take  it  off  the  stove  when  the  water  in  the  outer  pan  boils,  add 
the  flavors  and  sugar,  stirring  it  till  the  sugar  dissolves;  let  it  stand  a 
few  minutes,  strain,  and  put  it  into  the  freezing=can  and  freeze. 

If  uncooked  cream  is  used,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  whip  a  part  of  it, 
chill  it,  and  stir  it  in  just  as  the  freezing  cream  is  beginning  to  set. 

The  cooked  cream  is  rich  and  solid;  the  uncooked  is  snowy  and 
lighter  in  color,  and  when  part  of  the  cream  is  whipped  it  is  very 
white  and  delicate,  and  suitable  to  put  in  molds  to  decorate  the  table. 

PHILADELPHIA  ICE  CREAM  No.  i.— Take  1  quart  of  rich 
cream,  1  heaping  cup  (which  equals  ^  lb.)  of  sugar,  and  flavor  to 
taste.  This  makes  the  simplest  form  of  ice  cream,  and  these  materi- 
als form  the  basis,  and  the  above  are  the  standard  proportions  for  all 
the  best  Philadelphia  ice  creams. 

We  give  1  or  2  other  recipes  for  Philadelphia  ice  cream  which 
are  sometimes  used. 

PHILADELPHIA  ICE  CREAM  No.  2.— Mix  together  2  quarts 
of  thick  cream  and  1  pint  of  milk  and  ^  lb.  of  sugar;  dissolve  1  table- 
spoon of  soda  in  4  tablespoons  of  hot  water,  cool  it,  and  add  to  the 
cream  just  before  freezing.     Flavor  to  suit  the  taste. 

PHILADELPHIA  ICE  CREAM  No.  3— Heat  3  cups  of  fresh 
milk,  and  when  it  comes  to  the  scalding^point  have  ready  2  table- 
spoons of  arrowroot  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk  and  add  it;  when 
of  the  consistency  of  cream,  remove  from  the  fire  and  cool,  stirring 
frequently  to  prevent  lumping;  add  this  custard  to  1|-  quarts  of  well* 
whipped  cream,  and  1^  cups  sugar;  flavor  to  taste  and  freeze. 

NEAPOLITAN  ICE  CREAM. 
Method  of  Making. — To  make  cooked  Neapolitan  cream,  proceed 
as  follows:  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  again; 
then  stir  in  the  well=beaten  whites  and  mix  all  into  the  cream.  Cook 
it  over  a  good  fire,  in  a  double  boiler,  with  continual  stirring,  until  a 
knife=blade  dipped  into  it  will  be  slightly  coated  without  its  running, 
but  do  not  let  it  curdle;  then  remove  from  the  fire,  strain,  let  stand 
until  cold,  and  put  into  the  freezingscan.     This  method  is  best  suited 


ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS        439 

for  caramel,  chocolate,  coffee,  vanilla  and  nut  ice  creams.  Should 
the  custard  curdle  while  being  cooked  do  not  throw  it  away,  as  if 
well  frozen,  it  will  come  out  smooth. 

There  is  a  simple  rule  with  regard  to  the  use  of  sugar  in  these 
creams  which  it  will  be  convenient  to  know.  Use  -|  lb.  (or  1  heaping 
cup)  of  sugar  to  sweeten  each  quart  of  cream;  2  quarts  of  cream 
would  therefore  require  1  lb.  (  or  2  cups)  of  sugar,  and  so  on.  Any- 
where from  1  to  6  eggs  are  used  for  each  quart  of  cream,  and  more 
sugar  is  required  to  sweeten  eggs  than  cream,  the  rule  being  |  lb.  of 
sugar  to  every  12  eggs — as  the  number  of  eggs  vary,  alter  the 
amount  of  sugar  to  correspond;  thus  1  quart  of  cream  and  6  eggs 
would  require  f  lb.  of  sugar,  and  so  on. 

NEAPOLITAN  ICE  CREAM  No.  i— Take  6  eggs,  1  quart  of 
cream,  |  lb.  of  sugar;  flavor  to  taste  and  prepare  it  as  directed  in  the 
above  paragraph.  This  is  the  standard  formula  for  the  best  Neapoli- 
tan cream  made  by  confectioners.  Various  flavors  are  used,  as 
vanilla,  cofPee,  chocolate  and  caramel,  and  nuts  may  also  be  intro- 
duced, like  fllberts,  almonds,  etc.,  and  such  fruits  as  apricot,  cherry 
and  peach,  thus  giving  variety  to  the  cream. 

While  the  above  is  the  standard  formula,  used  by  flrst  class 
confectioners,  and  it  makes  the  richest  and  best  cream,  many  other 
combinations  are  used,  and  the  cooking  is  often  dispensed  with.  We 
give  2  or  3  sample  recipes. 

NEAPOLITAN  ICE  CREAM  No.  3.— Take  1  pint  of  milk,  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  6  oz.  of  sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  of  arrowroot;  scald 
until  it  thickens.  When  it  is  cool  add  1  pint  of  whipped  cream  and 
the  whites  of  the  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  flavor  to  taste,  and 
freeze. 

NEAPOLITAN  ICE  CREAM  No.  3.— Take  1  quart  of  rich 
milk  or  milk  and  cream,  4  eggs  and  4  tablespoons  of  sugar;  beat  the 
eggs  and  sugar  together,  stir  it  into  the  milk  or  cream,  cool,  flavor 
and  freeze. 

NEAPOLITAN  ICE  CREAM  No.  4.— (Picnic  ice  cream.)  Take 
3  pints  of  milk,  1  i^int  cream,  1|  cups  sugar,  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth;  flavor  and  freeze  without  cooking.  It  can  be  made 
and  served  in  1  hour. 

VARIOUS    FLAVORED    ICE     CREAMS. 
Variety  in  ice  creams  is  produced  mainly  by  varying  the  flavors. 
One  of  the  recipes  which  we  have  given  for  either  the  Philadelphia 
or  Neapolitan  ice  creams  can  be  used  as  the  basis,  and  by  using 


440        ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS 

different  flavors  an  endless  variety  of  creams  can  be  produced.  We 
give  directions  following  for  making  many  of  the  best  anO  most 
popular  of  the  flavors  in  use.  All  that  is  needed  is  to  prepare  the  ice 
cream  by  one  of  the  recipes  which  we  have  previously  given,  and 
flavor  it  with  any  desired  flavor,  according  to  the  directions  given. 

ALMOND  ICE  CREAM.— After  blanching  the  almonds  pound 
them  to  a  paste,  adding  a  little  rose= water  to  prevent  their  oiling; 
then  add  it  to  any  of  the  above  ice  creams  for  flavor.  Use  about  3  oz. 
almonds  to  the  quart  of  ice  cream.  Another  flavor  is  produced  by 
blanching  the  almonds,  roasting  them  in  the  oven  to  a  golden  brown, 
and  pounding  to  a  smooth  paste  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  sugar  and 
cream. 

BURNT  ALMOND  ICE  CREAM.— Put  3  tablespoons  of  sugar 
over  a  hot  fire,  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  add  4  oz.  almonds,  and  heat  till 
the  almonds  brown,  stirring  constantly.  Then  pound  fine  in  a  mor- 
tar and  sift  through  a  fine  strainer.  Use  this  to  flavor  any  of  the 
ice  creams  previously  given,  using  4  oz.  almonds  to  1  quart  of 
cream.  A  pleasant  combination  is  produced  by  fitting  card^board  into 
a  mold  and  filling  with  almond  ice  cream  on  one  side,  and  orange 
ice  cream  on  the  other.  Then  withdraw  the  card=board  and  pack  the 
mold  in  ice  2  hours,  or  till  ready  to  serve. 

BAKED  APPLE  ICE  CREAM — Use  6  good  sized  sweet  apples 
to  1  quart  of  ice  cream;  bake  the  apples,  pass  them  through  a  sieve, 
sweeten,  stir  it  in  the  cream,  and  freeze. 

BANANA  ICE  CREAM — Put  3  cups  milk  into  a  double  boiler 
and  bring  to  a  boil;  then  add  1  heaping  cup  of  sugar  and  thicken 
with  1  tablespoon  of  arrowroot  dissolved  in  cold  milk;  when  it  forms 
a  thick  custard  take  from  the  stove  and  cool;  when  cold,  add  1  pint 
of  cream  and  6  thinly  sliced  bananas,  and  freeze. 

BISQUE  ICE  CREAM. — This  is  cream  to  which  something  is 
added  to  give  it  roughness,  like  nuts  or  powdered  macaroons:  Dis- 
solve 1  cup  sugar  in  1^  quarts  of  cream ;  add  ^  cup  caramel  and  ^  cup 
hickory^nut  meats,  chopped  fine;  then  freeze.  Other  combinations 
can  be  used. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM — Use  about  3  tablespoons  of  caramel 
for  each  quart  of  ice  cream.  See  our  directions  for  making  caramel 
in  our  article  on  "Colors  for  Frostings,  etc."  in  the  chapter  on  "Cake." 
A  little  less  sugar  will  be  needed  when  caramel  is  used.  This  is 
highly  esteemed  by  many  persons. 


ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS        441 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM — Use  about  4  to  5  ounces  of  choco- 
late to  the  quart  of  ice  cream.  It  should  be  rubbed  smooth  in  a  lit- 
tle milk.  A  little  vanilla  is  also  added  often,  and  a  little  cinnamon 
gives  it  spicy  flavor;  steep  the  cinnamon  in  warm  water,  and  use  the 
clear  liquid  for  flavoring.  Or  for  variety,  a  little  caramel  can  be 
used  instead  of  the  cinnamon  flavor.  That  makes  a  chocolate  cara- 
mel ice  cream,  and  many  people  like  it. 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM.— Use  about  4  tablespoons  of  very 
strong  coffee  to  each  quart  of  ice  cream.  If  preferred,  ground  coffee 
can  be  boiled  with  the  milk.  A  little  arrowroot  is  sometimes  added 
with  coffee  cream. 

Tea  Ice  Cream — Strong  tea  can  also  be  used  for  a  flavor  the  same 
as  coffee. 

FRUIT  ICE  CREAM — Soft  fruit,  like  raspberries  or  straw- 
berries, should  be  mashed,  sweetened,  strained  through  a  colander  or 
not,  as  preferred,  and  stirred  into  the  ice  cream  when  partly  frozen. 
Firm  fleshed  fruit,  like  peach,  apricot,  plum,  etc.,  should  be  cut  into 
small  pieces,  sugar  added,  allowed  to  stand  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, and  then  stirred  into  the  cream  when  it  is  partly  frozen. 

Preserved  Fruit  and  Jams  can  be  used  instead  of  fresh  fruit  for  ice 
cream.  For  water  ices  fresh  fruits  should  always  be  used.  If  the 
juice  or  fruits  are  deficient  in  flavor  add  lemon  juice. 

FRUIT  JUICE  ICE  CREAM.— Mix  any  desired  fruit  juice  with 
sugar  to  form  a  clear  syrup,  and  then  beat  it  into  the  ice  cream  after 
it  is  frozen,  or  stir  it  in  after  beginning  the  freezing.  Fruit  juice 
should  never  be  cooked  with  the  cream  or  milk.  Use  1  cup  of  the 
prepared  juice  to  1  quart  of  cream. 

GELATINE  IN  ICE  CREAMS.— Use  |  oz.  of  gelatine  to  2 
quarts  of  custard,  (soaking  it  in  a  little  cold  milk)  and  dissolve  it  in 
the  boiling  custard  just  before  taking  it  off  the  stove.  The  gelatine 
should  be  disguised  by  high  flavoring;  it  is  used  to  help  the  molding 
of  thin  creams. 

LEMON  ICE  CREAM.— Grate  the  rind  of  1  lemon  into  1^ 
cups  of  sugar  which  will  extract  the  volatile  oil;  then  add  the  juice 
of  the  lemon  and  stir  it  in  1  quart  of  cream;  strain  and  freeze  at  once 
or  the  acid  will  turn  the  cream.  Or  lemon  extract  can  be  used  to 
flavor  one  of  our  recipes  for  Philadelphia  ice  cream. 

MACAROON  AND  BROWN  BREAD  ICE  CREAM.— Dry  the 
brown  bread,  pound  or  crumble  it,  sift  it  through  a  sieve,  and  beat  it 
into  the  ice  cream  when  partly  frozen. 


442        ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  A^D  SHERBETS 

Macaroons  can  be  roasted  to  a  bright  brown,  crushed,  sifted  and 
stirred  in  in  the  same  way. 

NUT  ICE  CREAM — Take  walnuts,  hazelnuts,  or  similar  nuts, 
chop  fine,  and  stir  them  into  the  ice  cream  when  it  is  partly  frozen. 
Or  they  may  be  j)ounded  in  a  mortar  to  a  fine  paste  and  then  used. 

ORANGE  ICE  CREAM. — Use  oranges  same  as  directed  for 
lemon  ice  cream. 

PINEAPPLE  ICE  CREAM.— To  each  quart  of  ice  cream  allow 
1  large  pineapple;  pare,  slice,  cut  it  very  fine,  lay  it  in  a  deep  dish 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar;  cover  the  dish,  and  let  it  stand  2  or  3  hours; 
then  strain  through  a  sieve,  mashing  and  pressing  out  all  the  juice; 
stir  it  gradually  into  the  cream,  beating  well.  A  few  slices  of  pine- 
apple can  be  retained  unsugared,  if  desired,  then  cut  into  dice  and 
when  the  cream  is  partly  frozen  stir  them  in. 

PISTACHIO  ICE  CREAM — Use  ^  cup  pistachio=nuts  to  1  quart 
of  cream;  blanch  the  nuts,  jjut  them  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  fine 
paste,  adding  a  little  rose= water,  and  a  little  sugar  and  cream;  then 
add  it  to  the  ice  cream.  As  pistachio=nuts  are  costly,  almonds  make 
a  good  substitute  for  them. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI  ICE  CREAM.— This  is  an  Italian  name  mean- 
ing simply  "  all  fruits."  Any  kind  of  candied  or  crystallized  fruit 
can  be  chopped  fine  and  stirred  into  the  ice  cream  when  it  is  partly 
frozen;  or  home-made  preserves,  with  the  syrup  drained  out,  and 
chopped  up,  can  be  used.  Mix  any  kinds  of  fruit  you  have,  or  de- 
sire to  use  to  get  a  good  effect,  as  pineapples,  plums,  pears,  cherries, 
etc. 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM.— Use  1  tablespoon  of  vanilla  extract, 
or  f  ounce  of  vanilla  sugar  to  each  quart  of  ice  cream.  For  making 
vanilla  sugar  see  the  introduction  to  "  Cake."  It  should  be  intro- 
duced while  the  cream  is  cooking,  and  fully  dissolved.  This  is  one 
of  the  most  popular  creams. 

MACEDOINES. — These  are  formed  by  mixing  2  or  more  fruits. 
Those  should  be  selected  whose  flavors  harmonize,  as  strawberry  and 
lemon;  orange  and  ai^ple;  apricot  and  peach;  pineapple  and  orange; 
grape  and  plum,  etc.  Prepare  and  stir  the  fruit  into  the  ice  cream 
when  it  is  partly  frozen,  as  directed  above  for  "  Fruit  Ice  Cream." 

NESSELRODE  PUDDING.— Scald  in  a  double  boiler,  1  quart  of 
rich  milk — the  more  cream  it  has  the  better;  then  add  yolks  of  4 
eggs  and  1  cup  sugar  beaten  to  a  cream,  and  2  cups  chestnuts  wh-'^h 


ICE  CKEAM,  WATEK  ICES  AND  SHEKBETS        443 

have  been  shelled,  blanched,  boiled  30  minutes,  and  mashed  to  a 
pulp;  strain,  put  it  into  the  freezer,  and  when  partly  frozen  stir  in  2 
cups  of  any  fruit  liked — berries,  stoned  cherries,  currants  or  peaches 
— and  finish  freezing;  it  should  stand  2  or  3  hours  before  serving,  to 
ripen. 

ICED  STRAWBERRY  PUDDING.— Boil  2  heaping  cups  of 
sugar  and  2  cups  water  together  for  30  minutes,  watching  carefully 
that  it  does  not  get  too  thick.  Beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  very  light, 
and  add  to  the  boiling  syrup;  stir  a  moment  over  the  fire,  then  turn 
into  a  large  bowl,  and  beat  continually  until  cold  and  thick  like  a 
sponge=cake  batter;  then  add  1  pint  of  strawberry  juice  and  freeze. 
Other  fruit  juices  can  be  used  instead  of  strawberry  if  desired,  and 
so  produce  varieties. 

MOUSSE — This  is  a  French  word  meaning  moss,  and  is  ap- 
plied to  cream  so  frozen  as  to  give  it  a  mossy  look.  Make  it  as  fol- 
lows: In  1  cup  cold  water  soak  ^  box  gelatine,  and  then  set  it  over 
hot  water  to  dissolve;  whip  2  cups  of  cream,  turn  it  into  a  basin,  add 
the  gelatine  and  |-  cup  of  powdered  sugar;  add  the  flavoring,  and  stir 
carefully  from  the  bottom  towards  the  top  until  it  begins  to  stiffen; 
have  a  mold  ready,  wet  with  cold  water,  turn  in  the  mousse,  lay  on  a 
piece  of  greased  writing  paper,  turned  greased  side  up,  fit  on  the 
cover  tightly,  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  1  hour.  Or  it  can  be  put  into 
a  freezer  and  frozen  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  put  in  the  molds, 
and  packed  in  salt  and  ice.  Flavor  it  with  vanilla,  or  any  flavoring 
desired,  and  also  stir  finely^chopped  fruit  in  it  if  desired,  the  same  as 
in  ice  cream. 

FROZEN  FRUIT.— Cut  firm=fleshed  fruits  like  peaches,  pine- 
apples, apijles,  etc.,  into  dice;  grapes,  plums,  etc.,  should  be  stoned 
and  chopped,  but  strawberries  and  raspberries  need  not  be  crushed. 
Add  sugar  to  sweeten,  and  when  that  is  dissolved  put  them  in  the 
freezer  and  freeze.  If  desired,  a  little  whipped  cream  can  be  added 
when  they  are  partly  frozen,  but  they  are  delicious  without  it. 

FRUIT  MOLDS — Take  molds,  line  them  with  ice  cream,  and 
into  the  center  put  any  fruit  liked,  cut  into  dice;  or  fill  with  berries, 
if  preferred;  put  ice  cream  over  all,  press  down  the  cover,  and  pack 
in  ice  and  salt.     Chill  the  fruit  thus,  but  do  not  freeze  it. 

WATEK  ICES  AND  SHERBETS. 

Water  ices  and  sherbets  (sherbet  means  a  drink)  are  all  com- 
posed of  the  juice  of  fruit,  sugar  and  water.  They  vary  much  in 
richness  from  the  ordinary  lemonade  which  has  been  frozen,  up  to 


444        ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS 

those  composed  of  equal  parts  of  sugar  and  pure  fruit  juice.  They 
have  been  less  popular  than  ice  cream  because  they  not  only  become 
soft  and  spongy  and  melt  soon  on  exposure  to  the  air,  but  as  ordi- 
narily made  they  are  often  lumpy,  have  a  gritty  taste,  and  a  texture 
like  a  stiffened  compound  of  flavored  water  and  snow.  If  the  fol- 
lowing method  is  pursued  they  can  be  made  much  like  ice  cream 
in  texture,  being  firm,  smooth  and  delicious. 

Method  of  Making  Water  Ices  and  Sherbets — Cook  the  water  and 
sugar  to  a  clear  syrup  in  a  double  boiler,  take  off  the  scum,  strain  it 
(using  fine  muslin  cloth  for  the  strainer),  and  let  it  cool;  then  add 
the  other  materials  (fruit  juice,  etc.)  and  put  all  into  the  freezer, 
pack  in  the  ice  and  salt,  and  freeze  it.  It  will  take  rather  longer  to 
freeze  than  ice  cream,  but  slowly  turn  the  crank  until  the  contents 
become  stiff;  then  the  can  should  be  opened,  the  sides  scraped 
dowU;  and  all  stirred  till  smooth;  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg,  with 
1  teaspoon  of  pulverized  sugar  beaten  with  it,  should  then  be  added, 
and  worked  in  till  smooth.  This  amount  of  egg  and  sugar  will  be 
sufficient  for  4  quarts  of  sherbet.  Then  let  the  brine  off,  pack  again 
with  ice  and  salt,  and  let  stand  2  or  3  hours  to  ripen,  covered  with 
a  carpet  wet  in  brine,  keeping  it  wet.  Then  open  it,  beat  again  and 
again  pack  down.  Fruit  jellies,  when  used  should  be  melted  very 
carefully  in  water,  then  cooled,  and  frozen  as  just  explained. 

If  the  granular  kind  of  ices  are  preferred,  the  cooking  should 
be  omitted,  the  ingredients  mixed  and  then  frozen;  also  omit  the 
beaten  egg  and  sugar  added  last,  as  above  directed,  for  finish.  Some 
people  dissolve  a  little  gelatine  and  add  it  to  water  ices,  as  it  makes 
them  smooth. 

In  preparing  water  ices  remember  that  too  much  sugar  prevents 
freezing,  and  too  little  makes  them  brittle. 

Ices  are  not  considered  very  wholesome.  They  should  not  be 
taken  at  once  after  violent  exercise,  nor  while  very  warm,  and  they 
are  apt  to  retard  digestion  if  taken  while  that  is  going  on. 

Granites  and  Frappes  (pronounced  frap-pay)  are  formed  by  mix- 
ing the  ingredients  without  cooking,  and  only  about  half  freezing 
them,  so  that  they  are  like  wet  snow.  The  ingredients  used  are  fruit 
juice,  sugar  and  water,  the  same  as  for  M-ater  ices  and  sherbets. 

ORANGE  ICE — Take  12  fine  juicy  oranges,  squeeze  out  the 
juice  and  i)our  a  little  boiling  water  on  the  pulp  to  extract  the  juice 
from  that;  add  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  the  grated  rind  of  2  oranges, 
1^  lbs.  of  sugar,  and  1  quart  of  water;  strain  and  freeze.  When  about 
half  frozen  add  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  • 

Lemon  Ice  can  be  made  the  same  way,  but  may  need  more  sugar. 


ICE  CKEAM,  WATEE  ICES  AND  SHEEBETS        445 

PINEAPPLE  ICE. — Mix  1  can  of  chopped  pineapple,  2  cups 
sugar,  and  2  cups  of  water;  then  freeze.  Or  2  cups  fresh  fruit  can 
be  used  instead  of  the  canned.  A  little  lemon  or  orange  juice  or 
both  are  sometimes  added  to  improve  the  flavor.  A  little  gelatine 
dissolved  and  strained  is  also  added  sometimes. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE.— Mix  2  cups  of  strawberry  juice,  2  cups  of 
sugar,  and  8  cups  of  cold  water.  Soak  1  tablesj)oon  of  gelatine  in 
2  tablespoons  of  cold  water,  then  add  2  tablespoons  of  boiling  water 
and  when  thoroughly  dissolved  strain  and  mix  with  the  strawberry 
juice  and  sugar;  then  freeze.  In  winter  strawberry  shrub  rnay  be 
used  in  place  of  the  juice  and  it  will  be  nearly  as  good,  but  it  should 
be  colored  with  a  little  cochineal. 

Other  fruit  juices  can  be  used  instead  of  the  strawberry,  and 
thus  a  variety  produced. 

GINGER  SHERBET. — Make  and  freeze  a  lemon  water  ice;  stir 
into  it  4  oz.  of  preserved  ginger  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  2  table- 
spoons of  the  ginger  syru^),  and  pack  down. 

LEMON  SHERBET — Take  4  cups  water,  2-  cups  of  sugar,  juice 
of  6  lemons,  and  1  tablespoon  of  gelatine.  The  gelatine  should  be 
dissolved  in  part  of  the  water,  added  to  the  other  ingredients, 
strained  and  frozen. 

MILK  SHERBET — Mix  1  quart  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  the 
juice  of  2  lemons;  then  freeze. 

PINEAPPLE    SHERBET.— Take   1  can 

of  sliced  pineapples,  cut  it  in  very  small 
pieces,  and  cook  until  soft;  add  the  juice  of 
4  lemons  (strained)  and  1  cup  sugar;  cool, 
and  add  -|  lb.  of  candied  cherries  cut  in  small 
pieces;  add  cold  water  enough  to  make  the 
mixture  8  quarts.  Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs 
very  stiff  and  mix  with  the  sherbet  just  before 
freezing  and  freeze  at  once.  This  amount 
will  serve  20  persons. 

The  Pineapple  is  a  native  of  South  America,  but 
has  been  naturalized  in  many  semi=tropical  countries.  The  fruit  is  eaten  fresh 
and  although  the  taste  is  delicious  it  is  not  very  digestible.  It  is  very  perishable. 
It  contains  little  nutrition,  having  89,'»  of  water,  9^  of  carbohydrates,  O.i^  albumen- 
oids,  0.3fo  fat  and  O.ofo  mineral  matters.  When  eaten  uncooked  they  are  best  if  pre- 
pared and  placed  on  ice  2  or  3  hours  before  being  served. 

VARIOUS  SHERBETS — If  2  cups  of  fruit  juice  are  used  to  2 
lbs.  of  sugar  and  8  pints  water,  and  it  is  cooked  and  prepared  as  di- 


446        ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS 

rected  in  the  "  Method  of  Making  Water  Ices  and  Sherbets,"  very 
fine  sherbets  can  be  made.  Raspberry,  strawberry,  currant,  apple, 
cherry,  grape  and  ftineapple  juice  all  work  well;  or  jelly  can  be  used 
as  there  directed,  but  it  takes  rather  more  of  the  jelly  than  of  the 
juice.  The  piilj^i  of  peach,  aprtcot  and  nectarine  can  be  used  instead 
of  the  juice.  The  amount  of  sweetening  can  be  altered  if  any  of  the 
juices  require  it, 

SORBET — Take  1  quart  water  and  2  cups  sugar,  and  boil 
together  for  20  minutes;  then  add  1  cup  orange  juice,  ^  cup  lemon 
juice,  and  1  can  of  grated  pineapple;  cool,  strain,  and  freeze  to  a 
mush.  Serve  as  soon  as  possible  after  freezing.  This  can  be  varied 
by  substituting  1  pint  of  strawberry  or  raspberry  juice  for  the  otheT 
flavors. 


HOME  CANDY  MAKING. 

i  ^'^ ANDY  can  be  made  at  home  for  |-  its  cost  at  stores,  and  when 
I  y^  so  made  you  know  it  is  pure,  which  unfortunately  is  not  the 
\^J  case  with  some  of  that  sold  by  the  trade.  Ladies  who  de- 
light in  making  cake,  preserves,  etc.,  may  easily  add  this  to 
their  other  accomplishments.  A  few  failures  at  first  should  cause  no 
discouragement,  as  knowledge  comes  by  experience.  As  candy  will 
absorb  moisture  from  the  air  in  damp  weather,  which  interferes  with 
its  hardening,  choose  dry  weather  to  make  it. 

The  Materials  and  Tools. — Confectioner's  powdered  sugar  is  the  best 
to  use  for  uncooked  candies  as  it  is  prepared  expressly  for  this  pur- 
pose. It  is  a  kind  of  powdered  sugar  much  finer  than  the  ordinary 
powdeued  sugar.  When  the  confectioner's  sugar  is  not  easily  ob- 
tained the  ordinary  powdered  or  fine  granulated  can  be  used.  For 
the  kind  of  sugar  to  use  for  cooked  candies  see  what  we  say  under 
"Fondant." 

Have  nuts  or  fruit  thoroughly  dry  before  using  them  in  can- 
dy. Slightly  salting  most  nuts  before  using  them  will  improve  the 
flavor  of  the  candy.  If  almonds  are  to  be  pounded  they  will  pulver- 
ize more  readily  if  after  being  blanched  they  are  well  dried  in  an 
open  oven. 

Oil,  or  washed  butter  is  the  best  to  use  in  greasing  tins  for  deli- 
cate candies  like  macaroons,  kisses  or  ratafias,  as  salted  butter  or  lard 
is  apt  to  imi3art  an  unpleasant  taste. 

Porto  Rico  molasses  of  a  medium  grade  is  best  for  candy;  or  use. 
the  best  New  Orleans  molasses. 

Unsweetened  chocolate  can  be  used  for  caramels  and  similar 
candies,  but  confectioner's  sweet  chocolate  is  better  to  use  to  dip 
candies  in. 

Many  ladies  are  bewildered  by  the  list  of  tools  and  their  names, 
but  good  results  can  be  obtained  with  a  small  sauce=^pan,  and  a  silver 
spoon  and  fork,  although  a  few  other  things  are  an  advantage  and 
can  be  obtained  if  candy  is  to  be  made  often.  The  sauce=pan  should 
not  be  iron,  but  brass,  copper,  tin  or  enamel  will  do;  2  or  3  small 
wooden  paddles  will  be  useful.  A  thermometer  costing  $2.00  to 
$2.50  for  testing  sugar  will  be  convenient  if  much  candy  is  made, 
but  as  there  are  other  tests  it  is  not  essential.  A  marble  slab  with  a 
smooth  top  will  be  a  convenience  but  a  large  meax  plate  can  be  used 

U7 


448  HOME  CANDY  MAKING 

for  small  quantities  if  you  haven't  that.  Candy  tongs  and  candy 
dippers  will  also  be  an  advantage,  and  so  will  a  stout  candy  hook 
fastened  to  the  wall  on  which  to  pull  candies.  Any  blacksmith  can 
make  such  a  hook,  using  |  inch  iron,  about  14  inches  long,  bending 
it  into  the  shape  of  a  fish  hook,  sharpening  the  point,  and  flattening 
the  other  end  and  boring  3  screw  holes  in  it.  Fasten  it  up  about  5 
feet  from  the  floor. 

In  making  candy  use  a  vessel  deep  enough  to  hold  it  when  it 
boils  up,  and  lift  it  from  the  fire  when  it  is  in  danger  of  boiling  over. 
Watch  carefully  to  keep  it  from  burning. 

In  Pulling  candy  have  the  hands  well  greased,  throw  the  candy 
over  the  hook  and  pull  it  towards  you;  as  a  rule,  take  hold  of  the 
candy  firmly,  and  make  that  move  without  sliding  the  hands  over  it 
or  you  will  blister  the  hands;  as  soon  as  the  candy  seems  likely  to 
break,  throw  it  over  the  hook  again,  and  continue  pulling  it  thus 
until  it  is  white  and  nearly  cold. 

Greasing  the  hands  is  better  than  flouring  them  when  handling 
candy  as  the  flour  is  apt  to  unpleasantly  affect  its  flavor. 

Coloring.— For  this  use  vegetable  colors  only,  and  they  are  better 
prepared  at  home  than  when  bought  at  the  stores.  For  preparing 
various  colors  see  "Frosting"  for  cakes.  For  amber  or  light  hrown, 
use  a  little  caramel.  For  carmine  or  pink,  use  some  of  the  cochineal. 
For  green  use  more  or  less  of  the  spinach  green,  according  to  the 
shade  desired.  For  yellow  use  saffron,  or  grated  orange  rind,  which 
is  better,  and  so  on.     Only  a  little  coloring  matter  is  needed. 

Flavorings. — These  should  be  selected  with  care.  Flavorings  for 
fondant  should  be  as  strong  as  possible  and  then  use  but  little,  be- 
cause fondant  liquifies  so  easily.  Many  of  the  flavorings  given  in 
our  article  on  flavorings  in  the  introduction  to  the  chapter  on 
"  Cake "  can  be  used.  The  tea,  Bedford,  laurel  and  citronelle, 
will  be  found  excellent.  If  chocolate  is  used  it  will  be  an  advan- 
tage to  add  a  little  vanilla.  For  ordinary  candies  5  cents  worth 
of  oil  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  wintergreen,  lemon  or  peppermint  will 
flavor  50  lbs.  of  candy.  Add  flavors  the  last  thing,  or  when  the  candy 
is  nearly  cold,  as  their  strength  is  wasted  if  added  while  it  is  hot. 

BOILING  SUGAR — In  boiling  sugar  it  is  well  to  understand 
the  different  "  degrees,"  as  the  confectioners  call  them,  through 
which  the  sugar  passes.  There  are  12  of  these  degrees  called  small 
ihread,  large  thread,  little  pearl,  large  pearl,  the  blow,  the  feather, 
the  soft  ball,  the  hard  ball,  the  soft  crack,  the  crack,  the  hard  crack, 
and   the  caramel.      Let  us  examine  this  a  little,  but  remember  that 


HOME  CANDY  MAKING  449 

in  nandling  sugar  skilfully  much  judgment  is  needed.  Suppose 
we  put  on  the  stove  3  lbs.  of  sugar  and  2  cups  of  water  and  stir  till  it 
dissolves.  After  boiling  a  few  minutes  it  will  approach  the  first  de- 
gree called  tlwead,  and  as  it  passes  from  1  degree  to  another  quite 
rapidly  it  must  be  watched  closely  and  tested  often  but  without  stir- 
ring it. 

The  thread  degree  is  known  by  dipping  the  forefinger  into  the 
syrup,  or  touching  it  to  the  syrup  adhering  to  a  small  stick  which 
has  been  dipped  in;  then  touch  the  forefinger  with  the  thumb,  and 
draw  the  fingers  apart;  if  a  fine  thread  is  formed  which  breaks  at  a 
short  distance,  and  remains  on  the  finger  and  thumb  as  a  drop,  it 
has  reached  the  small  thread.  Boil  a  little  longer,  repeat  the  test, 
and  a  longer  thread  will  be  drawn  known  as  the  large  thread.  This 
is  the  finger  test.     A  thermometer  will  show  about  220°. 

The  pearl  degree  is  tested  the  same  way.  When  the  thread 
reaches  from  the  thumb  to  the  finger,  without  breaking,  as  they  are 
drawn  apart,  it  has  reached  the  small  pearl,  and  when  it  will  spin 
across  as  far  as  the  thumb  and  finger  can  be  separated,  it  has  reached 
the  large  pearl.  Another  sign  is  that  the  syrup  shows  bubbles  on 
the  surface,  but  this  is  more  of  a  hint  than  a  test.  The  thermometer 
will  show  226°. 

The  b!ow  degree  is  tested  by  dipping  a  skimmer  into  the  syrup, 
shaking  it  a  little,  and  blowing  through  the  holes;  if  small  bubbles  or 
air  bladders  appear  on  the  other  side  the  blow  is  reached.  It  will  be 
230°  by  the  thermometer. 

.The  feather  degree  is  tested  in  the  same  way,  but  more  bubbles 
are  produced;  another  test  is  to  dip  in  the  skimmer,  shake  it  over  the 
pan,  and  then  give  it  a  sudden  flirt  away  from  you,  and  the  syrup  will 
fly  off  like  feathers,  or  n.ore  properly  in  threads.  At  this  stage  there 
is  not  enough  water  left  to  hold  the  sugar  in  solution,  and  it  will 
manifest  a  tendency  to  crystallize  or  grain.  The  thermometer  will 
show  236°. 

The  ball  degree  is  tested  by  dipping  the  forefinger  in  a  basin  of 
ice  water,  then  take  a  little  syrup  on  the  finger-tip  and  plunge  it  into 
the  water  again,  and  roll  it  with  the  thumb;  if  it  forms  a  soft  ball  it 
has  reached  the  soft  ball  (at  240°).  This  is  the  point  at  which  to 
use  it  for  mint  cream  drops.  When  a  larger  and  harder  ball  is 
formed,  which  sticks  unpleasantly  to  the  teeth  on  being  bitten,  the 
hard  ball  degree  is  reached  (at  248°). 

The  crack  degree  is  tested  in  the  same  way,  and  if  the  sugar  adher- 
ing to  the  finger  breaks  with  a  slight  noise,  and  docs  not  acJhoro  to 
the  teeth,  it  has  reached  the  soft  crack;  the  thernionictor  will  .-^how 

29 


450  HOME  CANDY  MAKING 

252°,  On  boiling  it  up  again,  and  testing  the  same  way,  the  crack 
degree  will  be  reached  at  260° ;  at  290°  tlie  syrup  will  break  short 
and  brittle,  cracking  like  an  egg-shell,  and  is  then  known  as  the  hard 
crack  degree. 

The  caramel*  degree  soon  follows,  and  the  syrup  loses  its  white- 
ness and  turns  a  light  straw  color.  A  few  drops  of  some  acid, 
like  vinegar,  lemon  juice  or  tartaric  acid,  should  be  added  now  to 
prevent  its  graining,  and  the  pan  should  be  quickly  taken  from  the 
stove  and  set  into  cold  water  to  prevent  the  syrup  from  burning,  or 
it  will  soon  become  a  dark  brown  and  be  spoiled.  At  the  caramel 
stage  the  sugar  will  snap  like  glass  on  being  dipped  into  water. 

Hints. — Dropping  in  the  acid  is  called  greasing  the  syrup.  Do 
not  add  too  much  or  you  will  spoil  it.  Confectioners  have  a  saying 
that  "there  are  20  different  ways  to  grease  syrujj,  but  none  to  make 
it  grain  when  greasy." 

A  small  piece  of  butter  put  into  the  pan  will  prevent  the  syrup 
from  rising  over  the  sides,  and  will  grease  or  smooth  it,  and  thus  act 
like  the  acid  in  keeping  it  from  graining. 

For  testing  the  syrup  a  small  round  stick  is  sometimes  used  in- 
stead of  the  finger;  dip  it  into  the  cold  water,  then  into  the  syrup, 
and  then  into  the  water  again.  Have  the  water  close  by,  and  be  sure 
it  is  cold  or  it  will  not  test  well.  If  the  water  is  cold  enough  and  the 
fingers  are  held  in  it  till  cold,  then  dipped  into  the  hot  syruj)  and  in- 
stayitly  plunged  into  the  cold  water  again,  they  will  not  burn  when 
used  to  test  even  boiling  syrup. 

Kee]3  the  sides  of  the  pan  clear  from  crystals  of  sugar  by  wiping 
them  off  with  a  damp  sponge  or  flannel,  and  do  not  let  the  crystals 
drop  into  the  pan,  or  they  will  cause  granulation.  In  doing  this  do 
not  let  the  fingers  touch  the  syrup  or  they  will  be  burned.  One 
washing  down  is  generally  enough,  but  repeat  if  necessary. 

If  at  any  time  you  boil  the  syrup  a  little  too  much,  or  produce  a 
degree  beyond  what  you  wish  for,  put  in  a  little  water  and  boil  it  up 
again.  Sugar  that  has  been  boiled  too  often,  however,  loses  many  of 
its  good  qualities.  After  dissolving  the  sugar  do  not  stir  the  syrup; 
there  will  be  danger  of  making  it  granulate  if  the  pan  is  shaken 
while  it  is  boiling.  Sugar  which  has  grained  can  be  boiled  again 
and  used  for  taffy  or  cream  candy. 

Do  not  set  candy  in  a  refrigerator  to  cool  it,  but  in  a  cool,  dry 
place.     Airtight  boxes  are  the  best  in  which  to  keep  candy. 


*The  name  "Caramel"  is  derived  from  a  Count  Albufage  Caramel,  of  Nismes, 
France,  who  discovered  this  stage  of  boiling. 


HOME  CANDY  MAKING  451 

FONDANT  OK  CREAM  CANDIES. 

FONDANT  OR  CREAM.— Fondant  is  the  foundation  for  almost 
all  French  candies,  and  can  be  easily  made  by  the  amateur  so  that  it 
will  look  and  taste  as  well  as  that  made  by  the  professional.  Granu- 
lated confectioner's  powdered  or  coffee  A  sugar  can  be  used,  but  cof- 
fee A  more  generally  gives  good  results.  For  a  trial  add  f  teacup  of 
water  to  1  lb.  coffee  A  sugar;  let  it  stand  an  hour  or  so,  and  then  add 
cream  of  tartar  the  size  of  a  white  bean,  dissolving  it  first  in  a  little 
cold  water;  now  set  the  pan  over  a  quick  fire  (be  particular  about 
that,  as  it  is  quite  important)  and  stir  constantly  until  the  candy  be- 
gins to  boil;  then  stop  stirring  at  once.  After  it  has  boiled  a  few 
minutes  drop  some  of  it  into  cold  water  to  test  it;  try  it  often,  and 
when  you  find  the  candy  can  be  gathered  up  in  the  fingers  in  a  ball 
which  does  not  at  once  soften  when  held  (about  the  soft  ball  degree) 
it  is  ready  to  take  from  the  fire,  and  should  be  very  carefully  poured 
into  a  pan  which  has  been  sprinkled  with  cold  water,  and  which  sets 
level.  Be  sure  the  candy  is  not  stirred  from  the  time  it  begins  to 
boil  until  it  is  poured  into  the  pan,  as  it  would  grain  if  stirred. 
Greasing  the  pan  is  often  advised,  but  it  is  apt  to  affect  the  taste  of 
the  candy,  and  we  have  found  moistening  sufficient.  Let  it  remain 
without  stirring  or  shaking  until  it  is  almost  perfectly  cold;  then 
beat  it  constantly  with  a  large  spoon  or  paddle.  In  a  short  time  the 
candy  will  get  white,  and  then  begin  to  harden;  now  gather  it  into  a 
mass  and  put  it  on  a  sprinkled  marble  slab  if  you  have  it;  if  not, 
knead  it  in  the  same  pan  in  which  it  cooled,  but  in  either  case,  knead 
it  as  you  would  bread  dough  for  a  few  minutes  with  the  hands.  If  it 
is  not  hard  enough  to  knead,  stir  as  long  as  you  can  with  the  spoon 
and  then  set  away  awhile  and  it  may  harden  sufficiently  to  work;  if 
not,  add  a  little  water  and  cook  again,  allowing  the  ball  to  cook  a  lit- 
tle harder  than  before.  Eemember  that  sugar  passes  very  rapidly 
from  one  degree  to  another,  and  so  must  be  tried  often.  When 
cooked  enough,  pour  it  into  the  pan  and  treat  as  before  directed.  If 
not  boiled  long  enough  the  fondant  will  be  too  soft  on  attempting  to 
knead  it;  if  boiled  too  long  it  will  harden  too  quickly,  and  be  hard 
and  lumpy.  Skill  in  working  it  will  come  with  practice  and  experi- 
ence. 

This  fondant  can  be  used  for  dipping,  and  if  it  is  cooked 
enough  it  can  be  made  into  balls  to  be  dipped  in  melted  fondant.  It 
can  also  be  used  for  "patties."  It  can  be  made  in  quantities  and 
kept  in  a  stone  or  china  dish  or  jar,  well  covered  with  waxed  or  but- 
tered pape^^o  keep  the  air  out,  using  it  as  needed;  it  will  keep  thus 
a  week  in  cold  weather.     Do  not  scrape  the  sauce  pan  after  pouring 


452  HOME  CANDY  MAKING 

out  the  fondant;  put  a  little  boiling  water  in  it,  set  on  the  stove, 
and  it  can  soon  be  easily  washed  out. 

The  above  fondant  will  form  the  foundation  for  all  your  French 
candies.  It  can  be  colored  with  cochineal,  saffron,  etc.,  and  flavored 
with  any  flavoring  desired.  In  working  these  candies  there  is  a 
chance  for  displaying  one's  taste  and  skill.  It  can  be  made  into 
rolls,  and  pieces  sliced  off,  or  made  into  cubes,  or  formed  into  any 
shape  to  imitate  French  candies.  As  French  candies  are  nearly  all 
made  by  hand,  you  can  notice  their  forms  and  imitate  them.  We  ex- 
plain some  of  the  most  popular  forms  for  these  candies,  and  you  can 
easily  devise  others;  there  is  no  limit  to  the  varieties  which  can  be 
produced  by  varying  the  flavors,  using  noyeau,  maraschino,  tea,  cof- 
fee, and  other  flavors  less  common  than  the  vanilla  and  lemon.  Va- 
riegated effects  are  produced  by  using  fondant,  variously  colored,  and 
so  on. 

Melting  Fondant. — In  melting  fondant  put  some  of  it  in  a  cup  and 
set  it  in  a  dish  of  boiling  water,  instead  of  setting  it  directly  on  the 
stove;  when  melted,  the  cup  can  be  held  in  the  hand  while  the  dip- 
ping or  dropping  is  being  done.  It  is  sometimes  said  that  the  cup 
must  be  kept  in  hot  water  during  the  "dipijing,  but  we  have  not  found 
this  necessary,  for  as  soon  as  it  hardens  too  much  to  use  readily  it  can 
be  set  back  in  the  hot  water  and  softened  again.  If  very  hot,  it  may 
be  too  thin;  if  so,  stir  a  minute  till  it  thickens.  If  it  is  too  thick, 
cautiously  add  a  little  hot  water,  1  or  2  drops  at  a  time,  as  a  little  too 
much  water  will  spoil  it  for  dipping  candies,  although  it  can  be  used 
for  dipping  fresh  fruits. 

In  using  a  iork  for  diiiping  candies,  grease  it  well,  and  do  not  stick 
it  into  the  article,  but  drop  the  ball  or  nut  into  the  melted  fondant 
and  lift  it  out  with  the  tines  of  the  fork,  using  them  like  a  spoon; 
rest  it  a  second,  to  drain,  on  the  edge  of  the  bowl,  and  then  deftly 
drop  the  coated  candy  onto  the  oiled  paper. 

ORANGE  OR  LEMON  CREAMS — Grate  the  yellow  rind  of  an 
orange  carefully  into  a  plate,  and  add  the  juice  of  ^  an  orange  and  ^ 
a  lemon,  and  just  a  dash  of  tartaric  acid;  then  mix  it  with  enough 
confectioner's  powdered  sugar  to  make  a  stiff  paste,  form  it  into  little 
balls,  and  set  away  to  dry  for  a  few  hours;  then  melt  a  little  fondant 
in  a  cup  as  before  directed,  and  drop  in  each  little  ball,  lift  it  out 
with  a  fork,  and  lay  it  on  oiled  paper.  If  the  cream  gets  too  thin  to 
cover  the  balls  well,  let  it  cool  a  minute;  if  it  gets  too  thick  warm  it 
again. 

Lemon  Creams  are  made  by  using  lemon  in  the  same  way. 


HOME  CANDY  MAKING  453 

BALLS. — Fondant  can  be  melted  and  an  equal  amount  of  alm- 
ond paste  stirred  into  it;  this  can  be  formed  into  balls,  and  these 
balls  dipped  into  melted  fondant  as  directed  for  orange  creams.  By 
flavoring  this  melted  fondant  with  cofPee,  tea,  etc.,  various  effects  can 
be  produced,  which  will  be  novel  and  attractive. 

WALNUT  CREAMS — Melt  a  little  fondant  in  a  cup  as  before 
directed;  color  it  with  cochineal,  and  flavor  with  vanilla  or  not,  as 
preferred;  then  drop  in  walnut  meats,  one  at  a  time,  taking  them  out 
on  the  tines  of  a  fork,  and  placing  them  on  buttered  paper  to  harden; 
then  repeat  the  operation  giving  each  one  a  second  coat.  Another 
way  is  to  flavor  a  little  fondant  with  vanilla,  form  it  into  small  balls, 
press  the  2  halves  of  a  walnut  on  opposite  sides  of  each  one,  and  set 
it  on  an  oiled  dish  to  harden.  If  the  nuts  are  slightly  salted  before 
being  used  it  will  improve  the  flavor. 

Almond  Creams  can  be  formed  by  using  almonds  instead  of  wal- 
nuts. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS — Flavor  a  little  fondant  with  vanilla 
and  roll  it  into  balls  the  size  of  walnuts;  then  take  some  confection- 
er's sweetened  chocolate,  heat  it,  and  mix  in  enough  well-beaten 
white  of  egg  to  make  a  smooth,  thick  paste;  dip  each  little  ball  into 
this  paste,  and  lift  it  out  with  a  fork  and  drop  it  onto  oiled  paper;  if 
the  white  shows  through,  add  more  chocolate.  Let  the  balls  dry  for 
some  time. 

RASPBERRY  CREAMS.— Mix  a  little  raspberry  jam  with 
enough  confectioner's  powdered  sugar  to  form  a  stiff  paste,  and 
roll  it  into  little  balls  between  the  palms  of  the  hands;  then  melt  a 
little  fondant  as  before  directed,  color  it  with  cochineal,  and  dip  in 
these  balls  as  directed  for  "  Orange  Creams,''  giving  each  ball  2  coats 
if  needed. 

Strawberry  Creams  can  be  made  with  strawberry  jam  tTie  same 
way, 

MAPLE  SUGAR  CREAMS.— Grate  fine  maple  sugar  and  mix 
it  with  fondant  to  suit  the  taste,  and  form  into  any  shape  desired. 
The  walnut  creams  are  very  nice  made  with  maple  sugar, 

COCOANUT  CREAMS.— Take  ^  cup  grated  cocoanut,  1  cup  con- 
fectioner's powdered  sugar  and  5  teaspoons  of  milk;  mix,  form  it 
into  little  balls,  let  them  dry  3  or  4  hours,  and  dip  them  in  melted 
fondant  as  directed  for  "  Orange  Creams,"  These  are  very  nice  cov- 
ered with  maple  sugar  fondant. 

FRUIT  CREAMS — Take  some  fondant  and,  while  it  is  warm, 
work  in  grated  cocoanut,  or  finely-chopped  citron,  currants,  figs,  or 


454  HOME  CANDY  MAKING 

other  fruit;  it  can  then  be  formed  into  balls,  bars,  or  flat  cakes,  and 
these  set  aside  to  dry. 

Dates  and  Cherries  can  be  cut  in  two,  and  the  stones  or  seeds 
taken  out,  and  little  balls  of  flavored  fondant  put  inside;  then  press 
them  together,  roll  them  in  granulated  sugar,  and  set  to  dry.  A  deli- 
cious confection  is  also  produced  by  putting  salted  almonds  inside, 
instead  of  the  fondant.     Try  it. 

Canoed  Plums  or  Figs  can  have  the  skins  and  stones  removed,  then 
be  rubbed  to  a  paste  with  confectioner's  powdered  sugar  and  a  trifle 
of  cream  of  tartar  added;  then  form  into  balls,  and  dip  as  directed  for 
"Orange  Creams." 

CREAM=COATED  FRUITS.— Melt  some  fondant,  and  add  any 
flavoring  desired,  only  select  that  which  will  go  well  with  the  fruit 
to  be  dipped.  The  fondant  can  also  be  colored,  if  desired,  to  suit 
one's  fancy.  A  fondant  which  is  too  soft  for  making  the  balls  or  cen- 
ters for  candy,  can  be  used  for  this  pur^jose.  Grapjs,  currants,  cher- 
ries, strawberries,  raspberries,  and  other  fruit,  can  then  be  dipj^ed 
into  the  prepared  fondant,  dipping  each  berry  separately,  and  laying 
them  to  dry  on  oiled  paper,  or  set  them  in  the  little  paper  cases  if  you 
have  them.  Select  choice  fruit  for  this  purpose.  Fruit  thus  dipped 
is  quite  attractive  for  dessert  or  breakfast.  Oranges  also  may  be 
peeled,  each  carpel  separated  carefully  without  breaking  the  skin, 
and  then  dipped  in  melted  fondant,  which  is  colored  with  grated 
orange  rind  and  thinned  with  orange  juice  This  process  is  new  and 
good. 

PATTIES. — These  are  simply  melted  fondant,  flavored  as 
desired,  and  formed  into  drops  or  patties  the  size  of  a  half  dollar; 
they  will  be  hard  enough  to  eat  in  ^  hour.  By  using  diflPerent  flavors, 
as  peppermint,  wintergreen,  etc.,  numberless  varieties  can  be  pro- 
duced. 

UNCOOKED  CREAM  OR  FONDANT.— Pass  2  or  3  lbs.  of  XXXX 
powdered  sugar  through  a  sieve,  shape  it  like  a  cone  on  the  table, 
make  a  well  in  the  top,  put  in  a  little  water,  work  in  sugar  till  it  is 
absorbed,  put  in  a  little  more,  and  keep  on  thus  doing  until  a  smooth, 
stiff  paste  is  formed.  While  doing  this,  work  in  a  little  vanilla  or 
any  other  flavor  desired.  This  will  serve  as  a  foundation  for  any  of 
the  candies  for  which  "  Fondant"  is  used,  but  it  cannot  be  melted  to 
use  as  a  coating. 

By  varying  this  uncooked  cream  a  little  a  variety  of  fine  candies 
can  be  produced.  Thus  lemon  creams  can  be  made  by  working  up 
the  sugar  with  lemon  juice  and  a  little  grated  rind;  then  form  them 


HOME  CANDY  MAKING  455 

into  creams.  Or  use  orange  juice  and  rind  for  orange  creams.  Or 
use  any  fruit  juice  instead  of  the  water  for  mixing,  such  as  pineap- 
ple, raspberry,  strawberry,  etc.;  the  flavor  is  thus  easily  varied. 

Cream  Walnuts,  Dates,  Figs,  Cherries,  etc. — These  can  be  made  from 
the  uncooked  fondant  as  follows:  Roll  some  of  the  uncooked  fondant 
between  the  hands  into  a  strip  about  1  inch  in  diameter,  and  then  cut 
the  strip  into  sections  about  1  inch  long,  and,  using  the  hands,  roll 
these  into  balls,  then  take  each  one,  press  the  2  halves  of  a  walnut  on 
the  sides  opposite  each  other,  and  put  them  in  a  pan  in  rows  as  fast 
as  formed;  set  them  aside  to  harden  a  few  hours  and  they  will  be 
ready  to  use.  To  prepare  cherries,  figs,  or  dates,  take  out  the  seeds 
after  cutting  them  in  two,  put  in  a  piece  of  cream,  roll  them  in  the 
hands,  and  set  in  rows  on  a  greased  dish  to  harden.  If  desired,  they 
can  be  rolled  in  granulated  sugar  as  fast  as  formed,  to  coat  the  sur- 
face; then  set  aside  to  harden, 

CREAM  CANDIES.— Take  the  whites  of  1  or  2  eggs,  add  an 
equal  quantity  of  cold  water,  and  stir  in  enough  confectioner's  pow- 
dered sugar  to  knead  well.     Flavor  to  taste. 

Chocolate  Creams  can  be  made  by  flavoring  some  of  this  paste, 
forming  into  balls,  and  dipping  it  into  melted  chocolate;  grate 
the  chocolate,  put  it  in  a  dish,  and  set  that  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water 
till  melted;  after  dipping  in  the  creams,  any  kind  of  nuts,  figs,  or  rai- 
sins can  be  pressed  on  top. 

A  great  variety  of  candies  can  be  formed  from  this  cream,  as 
it  is  in  reality  only  an  uncooked  "  Fondant,"  and  will  serve  as  the 
foundation  for  any  of  the  candies  previously  given  for  which  "Fond- 
ant" is  used,  but  it  cannot  be  melted  for  use  as  a  coating. 

Varying  the  Cream — This  paste  is  varied  sometimes  by  using 
milk,  instead  of  water,  and  by  beating  the  egg.  Take  the  white  of  an 
egg  and  an  equal  quantity  of  milk;  beat  the  egg,  add  the  milk,  and 
form  to  a  paste  with  confectioner's  powdered  sugar  as  above  directed; 
this  x^aste  when  done  is  handled  the  same  as  the  other  paste.  Gum 
arable  is  used  sometimes  instead  of  the  white  of  egg;  a  paste  is 
formed  by  mixing  the  gum  arable  with  confectioner's  powdered  sugar, 
and  the  paste  thus  formed  is  worked  up  in  numberless  ways.  There 
are  many  slight  changes  in  making  the  paste  or  cream,  but  the  re- 
sults are  very  similar. 

LOZENGES — 'Wintergreen  lozenges  can  be  made  of  the  above 
cream  by  flavoring  it  with  wintergreen,  rolling  it  out  thin,  and  cutting 
out  the  lozenges  with  a  little  tin  cutter.  Various  other  lozenges  can 
be  produced  by  using  different  flavors,  and  they  can  also  be  tinted 
with  different  colors,  if  desired,  for  a  variety. 


456  HOME  CANDY  MAKING 

BONBONS. — Make  a  paste  by  working  confectioner's  powdered 
sugar  into  gum  arabic  water,  and  flavor  it  with  vanilla;  form  it  into 
balls  and  let  them  dry.  Then  dip  each  ball  into  a  cream  made  of  the 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  the  confectioner's  sugar,  flavored  and  col- 
ored with  chocolate.  This  last  cream  should  be  thin.  By  varying 
the  flavorings,  using  different  colors,  etc.,  an  endless  variety  may  be 
made. 

CREAM  NUT  CANDY — Mix  |  lb.  coffee  A  or  granulated  sugar  in 
1  teacup  of  sweet  cream,  and  heat  slowly  on  the  stove  till  the  sugar 
is  dissolved;  then  boil  5  minutes,  and  stir  in  ^  lb.  of  nut  kernels, 
which  should  be  finely  grated  or  chopped;  then  boil  10  minutes,  and 
pour  it  onto  the  buttered  plates;  cut  it  into  squares  when  partly 
cool;  it  will  harden  in  about  2  days. 

MARSH=MALLOWS — Take  4  oz.  of  the  best  white  gum  arabic, 
dissolve  it  in  1  cup  of  water  and  strain  it;  then  add  a  full  ^  cup  of 
powdered  sugar,  set  it  on  the  stove,  and  continually  stir  until  the 
mixture  is  about  as  thick  as  honey,  and  the  sugar  is  well  dissolved; 
the  welhbeaten  whites  of  2  eggs  should  then  be  added  gradually,  and 
stirred  until  the  mixture  becomes  thinned  and  will  not  stick  to  the 
finger  when  touched;  flavor  to  taste  with  lemon,  rose,  wintergreen  or 
anything  preferred.  Pour  it  to  cool  into  a  square  tin 
pan  dusted  with  corn^starch.  Cut  into  squares  when 
cold,  and  dust  each  one  with  corn^starch.  This  will 
keep  best  in  tin  boxes. 

NOUQAT. — Make  the  marsh-mallow  paste  as  above 
directed,  and  then  stir  in  ^  lb.  of  almonds  blanched 
and  cut  fine;  set  to  cool  as  before;  then  cut,  when  cold, 
into  long  bars  and  wrap  in  waxed  pajDer.  Hazel-nuts, 
pisiacliio'-nuts,  etc.,  can  be  used  at  times  for  a  variety. 

COCOANUT  CREAM  CANDY.— Mix  the  milk  of  1 
cocoanut  and  1^  lbs.  coffee  A  or  granulated  sugar,  and 
heat  slowly  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  then  boil  5 
minutes,  add  the  grated  meat  of  the  cocoanut,  and  boil 
10  minutes  longer,  stirring  continually;  pour  on  buttered  plates  .o 
harden,  and  when  it  begins  to  harden,  cut  into  squares.  It  will 
harden  in  about  2  days. 

MISCELLANEOUS  CANDIES,  ETC. 
GLACES — Take   2  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  water,  and  \ 
teaspoon  of  cream  tartar;  boil  it  to  the  "crack"  degree,  that  is,  so 
that  it  will  break  when  in  cold  water,  and  will  not  stick  to  the  teeth 


COCOANUT 
AND  BLOSSOM. 


HOME  CANDY  MAKING  457 

when  eaten,  and  set  the  vessel  containing  it  into  a  basin  of  hot  water 
to  keep  it  warm;  if  it  gets  too  cool  while  being  used,  it  can  be 
reheated  twice,  but  it  will  not  soften  after  that.  Into  this  mixture 
can  be  dipped  nuts,  such  as  almonds,  peanuts,  walnuts,  etc.,  or  fruits 
like  grapes,  cherries,  dates,  figs,  sections  or  carpels  of  oranges,  etc. 
Have  the  fruit  or  nuts  dry  before  dipping  them,  and  dip  them  one  at 
a  time.  Grapes  and  cherries  can  be  dipped  in  by  their  stems;  nuts 
and  so  on,  can  be  dropped  in  and  lifted  out  on  the  well=greased  tines 
of  a  fork.  Lay  them  to  dry  on  greased  paper  or  pans,  or  on  a  sieve 
also  greased.  In  damp  weather  the  atmosphere  is  apt  to  make  them 
sticky,  and  even  in  dry  weather  they  should  be  kept  in  an  air-tight 
jar  or  tin  box.  Some  of  the  fruits  are  best  eaten  within  a  few  hours 
after  being  prepared. 

TAFFY  (Lemon). — Put  1  cup  of  water  and  1^  lbs.  cojBfee  A  sugar 
over  the  fire;  stir  until  dissolved,  then  add  \  teaspoon  of  cream 
tartar;  wipe  down  the  sides  of  the  pan  with  a  damp  cloth  or  sponge 
to  remove  the  crystals,  and  boil  until  it  reaches  the  "crack"  degree; 
then  turn  it  into  shallow  greased  pans  to  cool,  sprinkling  on  1  tea- 
spoon of  lemon  extract.  Mark  into  squares  with  a  sharp,  greased 
knife,  when  it  is  partly  cold.  Or,  it  can  be  turned  onto  a  well- 
greased  slab,  and  when  the  edges  cool  a  little  they  should  be  turned 
in  toward  the  center,  repeating  this  every  few  minutes  until  it  is  cool 
enough  to  handle.  Then  pull  it  as  previously  directed  for  pulling 
candy.  If  it  is  pulled,  the  flavoring  extract  is  best  sprinkled  on  a 
little  at  a  time  during  the  pulling.  Then  take  it  off  the  hook,  pull  it 
into  long  strips,  and  cut  these  into  little  blocks  3  or  4  inches  long; 
set  them  in  a  cool  place  on  greased  pans  to  cool. 

Vanilla  Taffy  can  be  made  in  the  same  way,  but  flavor  with  vanilla 
instead  of  lemon. 

Molasses  Taffy. — Boil  1  quart  of  New  Orleans  molasses  for  30  min- 
utes in  a  large  pan,  so  that  it  will  not  run  over,  stirring  continually; 
then  add  -^  teaspoon  baking  soda,  and  boil  it  to  the  "  crack  "  degree ; 
then  add  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  and  pour  it  into  shallow,  well- 
greased  pans  or  a  platter  to  cool;  when  partly  cool  it  may  be  marked 
into  squares  or  pulled  to  a  bright  golden  color,  and  finished  as 
directed  for  other  tafiies. 

Walnut  Molasses  Candy. — Make  the  molasses  taffy  as  just  directed, 
and  when  it  gets  to  the  "crack,"  degree,  stir  in  all  the  walnut  ker- 
nels it  will  hold  (have  the  walnuts  ijerfectly  dry);  pour  it  into  well 
greased  pans  to  cool;  cut  a  lemon  in  two,  and  with  the  flat  side  press 
the  candy  down  smooth;  cut  it  into  bars  with  a  welbgreased  knife, 
when  partially  cool. 


458  HOME  CANDY  MAKINa 

Peanut  Molasses  Candy  can  be  made  the  same  way,  but  use  peanuts 
instead  of  walnuts. 

Everton  Taffy — To  1  lb.  coflfee  A  or  granulated  sugar,  add  1  tea- 
cup of  water;  cream  ^  lb,  of  butter  and  have  it  ready,  and  when  the 
sugar  is  dissolved  stir  it  in;  flavor  with  lemon,  cook  to  the  "crack" 
degree,  turn  it  into  greased  pans,  and  with  a  greased  knife  mark  into 
blocks  when  partly  cold. 

PLAIN  MOLASSES  CANDY.— Take  2  cups  of  molasses,  1  cup 
of  brown  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  boil  until  it  will  hard- 
en in  cold  water;  then  stir  in  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  pour  it  on  the 
buttered  plates,  and  pull  as  soon  as  cool. 

Adding  the  sugar  makes  the  candy  more  brittle;  if  white  sugar  is  used  instead 
of  brown,  the  candy  will  be  whiter,  and  if  a  teaspoon  of  soda  is  stirred  in  well,  just 
before  pouring  out  the  candy,  it  will  whiten  it  still  more.  The  vinegar  keeps  it 
from  graining,  and  lemon  juice  or  tartaric  acid  would  answer  as  well.  The  butter 
keeps  it  from  rising  over  the  sides  of  the  pan  as  it  boils,  and  makes  it  smoother; 
some  people  add  a  little  sweet  cream  also.  The  idea  that  molasses  candy  should 
be  stirred  from  the  time  it  is  put  on  the  stove  until  it  is  taken  off  is  erroneous.  A 
tin  lid  placed  over  the  pan  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil,  will  keep  in  the  steam 
which  will  wash  the  candy  from  the  sides  of  the  pan.  When  beginning  to  pull  the 
candy  it  should  be  rather  sticky,  or  else  it  will  not  be  of  the  right  consistency 
when  done.  After  getting  the  mass  into  good  shape,  pull  it  briskly  a  few  minutes 
while  holding  it  over  the  stove,  and  the  heat  and  the  pulling  combined  will  whiten 
it  wonderfully. 

For  Peanut  Molasses  Candy  prepare  the  peanuts  while  the  candy  is 
cooking,  lay  them  on  buttered  pans,  and  pour  the  candy  over  them 
when  done;  cut  into  blocks  with  a  greased  knife  when  it  is  slightly 
cooled. 

For  Walnut  Candy  stir  in  a  cup  of  walnuts  just  before  removing 
it  from  the  fire;  then  pour  into  greased  tins  and  finish  as  above. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH. — Take  3  cups  of  white  sugar,  ^  cup  of  water, 
-|  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar  and  1  tablesjaoon  of  butter;  boil,  without 
stirring,  to  the  "crack"  degree;  add  ^  teaspoon  of  soda  and  8  drops  of 
lemon  extract,  and  turn  it  into  welhgreased  pans,  having  it  about  ^ 
inch  thick;  when  partly  cool,  mark  into  inch  squares  with  a  well= 
greased  knife. 

SWEET  FLAG  CANDY.— Take  some  sweet  flag  root,  wash  it, 
scrape  thoroughly,  slice  very  thin,  and  boil  10  minutes  in  twice  as 
much  water  as  there  is  of  the  flag;  drain  off  the  water,  and  for  each 
cuj)  of  this  extract  add  1  cup  thick  maple  syrupy — or  sugar  will  an- 
swer; stir  well  together,  and  cook  till  the  sugar  grains.  Excellent  for 
colds, 

COUGH  CANDY — Break  2  oz.  slippery  elm  bark  into  small  bits, 
add  1  cup  water  and  2  oz,  flaxseed,  and  let  it  soak,  stirring  a  few 


HOME  CANDY  MAKING 


459 


times,  for  1  or  2  hours;  strain,  add  3  cups  brown  sugar,  put  it  on  the 
stove,  stir  till  the  sugar  dissolves,  and  boil  5  minutes;  put  in  2  table- 
spoons of  lemon  juice  and  bring  to  the  "crack"  degree;  pour  it  to 
cool  into  greased  pans,  and  cut  into  small  squares  when  partially  cool. 
This  is  a  valuable  remedy  for  those  troubled  with  throat  affections, 
or  who  use  their  voices  much,  and  a  pleasant  candy  as  well. 

PEPPERMINT  DROPS.— Take  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  moisten 
it  with  2  tablespoons  water;  boil  it 
5  minutes,  then  take  from  the  fire 
and  add  cream  of  tartar  the  size  of 
a  pea;  mix  well,  and  add  4  or  5 
drops  of  oil  of  peppermint,  and  beat 
it  briskly  until  the  mixture  whitens 
(have  the  cream  of  tartar  and  pep- 
permint measured  and  ready  while 
the  sugar  is  boiling),  then  drop 
it  quickly  onto  oiled  paper,  in 
drops  about  the  size  of  peas,  or 
other  sizes  if  preferred.  When 
firm,  they  can  be  removed  from  the 
paper  by  moistening  it  on  the 
under  side,  and  lifting  them  ofP 
with  a  limber  knife.  Dry  them 
in  a  warm  place  on  a  sieve,  and  keep  in  closely  covered  boxes.  If 
powdered  or  confectioner's  sugar  is  used  the  drops  will  be  less  bril- 
liant. If  the  sugar  dust  is  separated  from  the  granulated  sugar  with 
a  hair  sieve,  it  will  be  an  advantage.  If  the  cream  gets  too  hard  to 
drop  from  the  spoon  set  it  on  the  stove,  stir  till  it  gets  thinner,  and 
drop  as  before. 

Peppermint  belongs  to  the  mint  family  and  grows  abundantly  in  all  temperate 
climates.  It  is  a  powerful  stimulant  and  the  peppermint  candies  are  very  efficace- 
ous  in  relieving  flatulence  and  nausea. 

For  Ginger  Drops  proceed  exactly  the  same  as  for  peppermint,  but 
instead  of  flavoring  with  peppermint  use  2  teaspoons  of  Jamaica 
ginger. 

For  Rose  Drops  flavor  with  7  or  8  drops  of  essence  of  rose,  and 
color  it  with  7  or  8  drops  of  the  prepared  cochineal  given  elsewhere 

Lemon  Drops  can  be  produced  by  flavoring  it  with  1  teaspoon  of 
acetic  acid;  or  proceed  as  follows:  Use  just  enough  strained  lemon 
juice  to  dissolve  1  cup  of  sugar;  boil  to  a  thick  syrup,  drop  onto 
greased  plates,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  harden.  We  prefer  the 
first  method. 


PEPPEKMINT. 


460  HOME  CANDY  MAKING 

Wintergreen  Drops  can  be  made  like  peppermint  drops,  bat  flavor 
with  wintergreen,  and  tint  with  the  prepared  cochineal. 

For  Currant  Drops  moisten  the  sugar  with  currant  juice  instead  of 
water;  set  it  on  the  stove  and  melt,  stirring  constantly,  but  do  not  let 
it  boil;  then  add  a  very  little  more  sugar,  warm  it  a  moment  with  the 
rest,  drop  it  on  oiled  paper,  and  finish  like  peppermint  drops. 

By  using  raspberry  or  strawberry  juice,  instead  of  the  currant 
juice,  raspberry  or  strawberry  drops  are  produced. 

Orange  Drops — Take  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  orange,  add  a 
pinch  of  tartaric  acid,  and  stir  in  enough  confectioner's  powdered 
sugar  to  work  well;  form  it  into  balls  the  size  of  marbles. 

CARAMELS  {Chocolate.) — Take  4  cups  of  brown  sugar,  2  cups 
New  Orleans  molasses,  |  cup  of  milk,  2  cups  Baker's  chocolate  (grat- 
ed), and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  stir  all  together,  and  boil  slowly 
over  a  slow  fire  until  it  cracks  in  water  (the  "soft  crack"  degree); 
add  vanilla  flavor  and  turn  it  about  |  inch  deep,  into  large,  flat,  wen= 
greased  tins;  when  nearly  cold,  mark  it  deeply  into  squares  with  a 
greased  knife.     Break  apart  when  cold,  and  wrap  in  waxed  paper. 

Maple  Caramels. — Take  4  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  crushed 
maple  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  cream;  bring  to  a  boil  and  add  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  and  a  pinch  of  cream  tartar;  cook  slowly,  with  constant 
stirring,  to  the  "soft  crack"  degree,  and  finish  as  directed  for  choco- 
late caramels. 

Nut  Caramels. — Make  the  same  as  chocolate  caramels  and  when  it 
is  cooked  (to  the  "crack"  degree)  stir  in  about  1  lb.  of  nuts,  chopped 
fine;  use  walnuts,  or  walnuts  and  almonds  mixed;  then  finish  as  with 
the  chocolate  caramels. 

Vanilla  Caramels — Cream  2  tablespoons  ot  butter,  and  work  in  1 
cup  brown  sugar;  then  mix  in  1  cup  cream  and  1  cup  New  Orleans 
molasses,  and  treat  as  directed  for  chocolate  caramels,  flavoring 
with  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  just  before  pouring  out  to  cool. 

This  can  be  made  into  strawberry  caramel  by  flavoring  with 
strawberry  instead  of  vanilla,  and  working  in  a  little  red  coloring. 

FRENCH  CHOCOLATES — Melt  some  confectioner's  sweetened 
chocolate  in  a  cup  set  in  hot  water,  and  into  it  drop  nuts  of  various 
kinds,  or  small  pieces  of  candied  fruit;  lift  out  each  piece  with  a  fork 
and  lay  it  on  oiled  paper  to  harden.  A  great  variety  of  delicious  and 
popular  candies  can  be  made  thus,  and  they  will  keep  longer  than 
the  French  chocolates  sold  in  the  stores. 

HOARHOUND  CANDY— Boil  about  1  oz.  of  the  herb  in  1^ 
cups  water;  then  strain  it,  stir  in  3  cups  brown  sugar,  and  when  it 


HOME  CANDY  MAKING  461 

boils  add  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar;  boil  until  it  is  brittle  when  tested 
in  cold  water;  pour  it  into  greased  pans,  and  mark  into  squares  with 
a  greased  knife  when  partly  cold. 

HONEY  CANDY.— Take  2  cups  coffee  A 
sugar,  water  enough  to  dissolve  it,  and  4  table- 
spoons of  strained  honey;  boil  until  brittle  on 
being  dropped  in  cold  water;  stir  in  a  teaspoon 
of  nut  kernels,  and  pour  it  to  cool  in  greased 
pans.  Or,  for  a  variety,  leave  out  the  nuts  and 
pull  it  while  cooling. 

PEANUT  CANDY— Take  1  cup  coffee  A 
or  granulated  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  water, 
and  boil  till  it  will  harden  in  cold  water;  add  a  peanut. 

pinch  of  cream  tartar,  and  stir  in  1  cup  of 
shelled  peanuts;  finish  as  directed  for  hoarhound  candy. 

The  Peanut  is  a  native  of  India  but  is  now  extensively  grown  in  America. 
It  will  yield  from  60  to  90  bushels  or  even  more  to  the  acre.  It  is  an  oily  nut  con- 
taining a  good  deal  of  nutrition,  but  it  is  rather  difficult  of  digestion. 

BUTTERNUT  BALLS — Take  some  butternuts  or  beachnuts, 
pound  them  very  fine  in  a  mortar,  and  add  a  little  allspice  and  nut- 
meg. Make  a  frosting  as  for  cakes,  and  stir  in  enough  of  the  mix- 
ture to  make  it  thick  enough  to  handle.  Grease  the  hands,  form  this 
mixture  into  balls,  and  set  on  greased  tins,  allowing  room  for  them 
to  spread  as  they  dry. 

FIQ  CANDY. — Take  1^  cups  water  and  1  lb.  coffee  A  or  granu- 
lated sugar;  boil  until  it  is  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water;  add 
1  teaspoon  each  of  butter  and  vinegar,  and  pour  it  into  greased  pans 
on  which  slices  of  figs  have  been  laid;  put  slices  on  top  also. 

CRYSTALLIZED  POPCORN — Take  1  teacup  coffee  A  or  gran- 
ulated sugar,  3  tablespoons  of  water  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  boil 
to  the  "hard  ball"  degree,  and  then  throw  in  3  quarts  of  nicely 
popped  corn;  stir  briskly  until  the  candy  is  evenly  distributed  over 
the  corn;  take  the  kettle  from  the  fire  (be  careful  the  corn  does  not 
burn)  stir  until  it  cools  a  little,  and  each  grain  will  be  separated  and 
coated  with  crystallized  sugar. 

Nut  meats  of  any  kind  may  be  crystallized  the  same  way. 

CRYSTALLIZED  CHERRIES.— Prepare  the  sugar  and  bring  it 
to  the  "  hard  ball "  degree  as  directed  for  crystallized  popcorn,  and 
then  pour  it  over  some  fine  ripe  cherries  which  have  been  stoned: 
move  them  about  gently,  to  coat  them  nicely,  and  when  almost  cold 
dry  them  in  a  cool  oven  or  ne^r  the  fire. . , 


462  HOME  CANDY  MAKING 

POPCORN  BALLS — Sort  all  the  hard  kernels  out  of  popcorn; 
then  take  the  amount  of  molasses  needed,  and  boil  it  until  it  will 
hair  or  thread  otf  the  end  of  a  spoon  (the  "feather"  degree);  pour 
the  hot  molasses  over  the  corn,  mix  well,  and  make  into  balls  as  soon 
as  it  cools  a  little,  having  the  hands  well  greased, 

Cornoke  can  be  prepared  by  putting  the  mass  while  warm  into 
greased  tins,  pressing  it  into  thin  sheets  with  greased  rollers  and 
afterwards  cutting  it  into  small  square  cakes. 

RATAFIAS. — Use  ^  lb.  of  sweet  almonds,  ^  lb.  bitter  almonds,  2 
cups  granulated  sugar,  whites  of  4  eggs.  Blanch,  skin  and  dry  the 
almonds;  then  pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  the  white  of  1  egg;  then 
stir  the  sugar  in  gradually,  and  add  the  remaining  whites  of  egg; 
beat  thoroughly,  and  drop  on  tins  covered  with  writing  or  cartridge 
paper,  and  bake  about  10  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  The  ratafias 
should  be  about  the  size  of  a  large  button  when  done,  and  as  they 
spread  very  much  in  baking  only  a  very  little  of  the  paste  should  be 
allowed  for  each  one.  Have  them  far  enough  apart  on  the  paper  so 
that  they  will  not  touch  as  they  swell  in  baking. 

WHITE  CANDY. — Take  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  water, 
and  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar;  boil  without  stirring  until  it  is  brittle 
when  dropped  in  cold  water;  pour  into  greased  pans,  and  pull  when 
cool  enough,  adding  vanilla  flavor  as  you  pull  it;  form  it  into  sticks, 
and  set  in  a  cool  place  till  the  next  day. 

CRYSTALLIZED  NUTS.— Select  the  finest  nuts  and  lay  them  in 
welhbeaten  white  of  egg,  drain  them,  and  again  beat  what  white  of 
egg  drips  off;  then  dip  them  one  by  one  into  powdered  sugar; 
lay  a  sheet  of  fine  paper  on  a  pan,  place  the  nuts  on  it,  and  set  in  a 
cool  oven;  when  the  icing  becomes  firm,  pile  them  on  a  dish,  and 
keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

FROSTED,  ICED  OR  CRYSTALLIZED  FRUITS.— Select  ripe, 
perfect  fruit,  and  dijj  it  in  the  welhbeaten  white  of  egg  to  which  a 
little  cold  water  has  been  added,  or  into  thin  gum  arable  water;  then 
roll  it  in  pulverized  or  fine  granulated  sugar;  let  it  dry  a  little,  and 
roll  again,  laying  it  on  oiled  paper  to  dry.  Keep  it  in  a  cool,  dry 
place  until  ready  to  arrange  it  for  the  table,  as  dampness  may  make 
it  sticky. 

Currants,  cherries,  grapes,  plums,  peaches,  or  other  fruit,  may  be 
thus  prepared,  and  it  is  very  attractive  for  the  tea  table  or  dessert. 
Leave  grapes  or  currants  on  the  stem,  and  brush  the  fur  off  of 
peaches  before  frosting  them. 


HOME  CANDY  MAKING  463 

ORANGE  PEEL,  CANDIED.— Use  thick  peel  and  cut  it  in  thin 
strips,  then  boil  it,  frequently  changing  the  water  until  there  is  no 
bitter  taste  in  the  water  (don't  be  alarmed  at  the  amount  of  boiling 
required);  drain  thoroughly,  then  put  in  a  kettle  with  sugar  only,  in 
proportion  of  1  cup  to  the  peel  of  a  dozen  oranges.  Set  the  kettle 
on  the  back  of  the  stove,  and  stir  occasionally  while  the  sugar  dis- 
solves and  the  peel  becomes  candied  and  dry.  Keep  in  a  glass  jar. 
Used  instead  of  raisins  in  cake  it  gives  a  daintily-flavored  fruit  cake. 

FUDGE. — Take  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  1 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  1  small  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  2  squares 
or  1  ounce  of  chocolate.  Shave  the  chocolate  fine.  Mix  the  sugar 
and  milk  until  there  are  no  lumps :  then  place  it  on  the  stove,  and 
put  butter  in  at  once,  and  stir  continually.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil 
add  the  chocolate ;  allow  it  to  boil  until,  when  dropped  into  a  cup  of 
cold  water,  it  sticks  together  like  a  soft  caramel  (about  10  minutes) ; 
add  the  vanilla  just  before  taking  off  of  the  stove,  and  continue 
stirring  until  it  is  quite  stiff,  but  not  so  hard  that  it  will  not  run 
freely.  Pour  into  buttered  pans,  and  cut  into  squares  just  before 
it  gets  cold. 

Nuts  of  any  kind  may  be  chopped  fine  and  added  at  the  same 
time  as  the  vanilla,  if  desired,  to  give  variety. 


FRUITS  AND  NUTS. 

GREAT  variety  of  fine  fruits  abound  in  our  markets  which  in 
their  season  are  clieap  and  easily  obtainable.  They  may  be 
considered  as  luxuries,  because  no  fruit  is  essential  to  life, 
but  they  afford  a  ijleasing  variety  to  bills  of  fare,  and  they 
possess  some  value  in  themselves.  While  most  highly  prized  by  the 
inhabitants  of  warm  countries  they  are  craved  and  procured  by  those 
of  temperate  climates,  often  even  at  much  expense.  Fruit  may  be 
profitably  eaten  at  least  once  a  day.  The  juice,  consisting  largely  of 
watery  solutions  of  acid  and  sugar,  is  the  most  enjoyable  part,  and 
those  varieties  containing  the  most  juice  with  the  least  cell  structure 
are  the  most  highly  prized.  Although  judged  by  their  chemical 
composition  their  food  value  is  not  large,  fruits  act  beneficially  on 
the  system,  when  fully  ripe  and  eaten  in  moderation,  as  they  improve 
the  apj)etite  and  promote  a  healthy  condition  of  the  vital  organs. 

Nuts  do  riot  form  a  very  important  article  of  diet  among  any  peo- 
ple with  the  exception  of  the  cocoanut.  Although  judged  solely  by 
their  chemical  composition  they  should  be  very  nutritious,  they  are 
difficult  of  digestion  and  are  valuable  principally  for  the  oil  which 
they  contain. 

The  most  wholesome  and  nutritious  fruits  are  the  bland  varieties,  like  ap>>ie8, 
grapes,  pears,  strawberries,  and  gooseberries,  although  the  latter,  as  well  as  cur- 
rants and  raspberries,  are  less  wholesome  than  the  others. 

Stone  fruits  are  apt  to  disagree  with  the  stomach,  but  the  more  watery,  like 
peaches  and  large  plums,  are  better  than  those  which  are  smaller  and  drier,  like 
apricots  and  damsons.     Bananas  are  wholesome. 

The  skin  of  fruits,  and  the  cellular  parts  in  general,  are  not  readily  digeste  1. 

The  pulp  of  oranges  renders  them  heavy. 

Fruit  may  be  eaten  with  a  meal  or  on  an  empty  stomach.  The  quantity  vhich 
should  be  taken  depends  on  the  kind.  A  healthy  person  may  now  and  then  eat  the 
bland,  nutritious  fruits,  as  freely  as  any  other  wholesome  food,  but,  as  a  rule,  he 
will  gain  most  if  he  eats  but  little,  and  takes  it  regularly. 

Whatever  fruit  is  eaten  uncooked,  must  be  fully  ripe,  but  not  over-ripe. 

When  eaten  with  a  meal,  fruit  promotes  digestion  by  its  gently  irritating  ef- 
fect on  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  stomach  and  intestine.  For  a  laxative  effect 
it  is  best  eaten  in  the  early  morning  before  breakfast,  or  between  meals.  Among 
the  laxative  fruits  may  be  mentioned  oranges,  figs,  tamarinds,  prunes,  mulberries, 
dates,  nectarines,  apricots  and  plums.  In  the  early  morning  an  orange  acts  very 
decidedly  as  a  laxative,  sometimes  amounting  to  a  purgative,  and  may  generally 
be  relied  on.  Pomegranites,  cranberries,  blackberries,  sumach  berries,  dewber- 
ries, raspberries,  barberries,  quinces,  pears,  wild  cherries,  and  medlars  are  astrin- 
gent. Pomegranites  are  very  astringent,  and  relieve  a  relaxed  throat  and  uvu'a. 
Apples  are  correctives,  useful  in  nausea  and  the  vomiting  of  pregnancy;  they  at 
once  relieve  the  nausea  due  to  smoking.  Grapes  and  raisins  are  nutritive  and  de- 
mulcent, and  very  grateful  in  the  sick  chamber. 

Among  the  fruits  which  act  as  diuretics  are,  grapes,  peaches,  strawberries, 
whortleberries,  prickly  pears,  black  currants  and  melon  seeds.      Lemons,  limeSi 

461 


FRESH  FRUITS  AND  NUTS  465 

apples,  gooseberries,  red  and  white  currants,  pumpkins  and  melons  are  refriger- 
ants. 

Cooking  removes  much  of  the  acidity  from  unripe  fruit,  and  renders  it  lighter 
as  well  as  more  palatable.  The  acid  of  unripe  fruit  acts  as  an  irritant  poison, 
causing  an  excessive  intestinal  secretion  with  more  or  less  irritation,  and  hence 
arises  the  resulting  diarrhea.  On  the  other  hand,  fruit  which  is  over«ripe,  in  which 
fermentation  has  begun,  frequently  causes  the  same  disorder,  and  should  be 
equally  avoided,  although  less  easily  avoided  because  the  insidious  beginning  of 
decay  is  not  easily  recognized. 

The  Acids  in  Fruit. — The  pleasant  flavor  of  many  of  the  fruit  sauces  depends 
on  blending  the  acids  which  fruits  contain,  with  sugar,  and  much  of  the  success  of 
the  various  cooking  operations  in  which  they  are  used  depends  on  the  proper  com- 
bination of  these  elements.  If  the  acid  was  neutralized,  as  might  easily  be  done 
with  an  alkali,  the  piquancy  would  be  gone,  and  the  product  would  taste  insipid 
and  flat.  The  aim,  therefore,  is  not  to  wholly  neutralize  the  acid,  but  merely  to 
blend  it  agreeably  with  sweetening. 


FRESH  FRUITS  AND  NUTS. 

Fruit  for  the  table  should  be  selected  with  care,  and  choose  only 
that  which  is  ripe  and  perfect.  In  arranging  it  for  the  table  there  is 
an  opportunity  to  display  one's  taste  and  ingenuity.  The  garnishing 
requires  attention.  Arrange  the  fruit  tastefully  on  dishes,  with 
leaves  between  and  around  it,  as  the  contrast  of  brilliantly  colored 
fruits  with  nicely  arranged  foliage  is  very  charming.  The  double= 
edged  malloM%  strawberry  and  vine  leaves  have  a  pleasing  effect,  and 
in  winter  the  bay  and  laurel  are  sometimes  used.  For  the  breakfast 
table  melons,  oranges,  and  small  fruits  are  generally  served,  but  for 
the  dinner  table  all  fruits  are  served  in  their  season.  Serve  whole 
fruit  in  a  raised  dish,  blending  the  colors  harmoniously,  and  mix  in 
any  pretty  green  leaves  or  vines.  Arrange  them  conveniently  for 
serving,  and  so  that  they  will  not  fall  out  when  moved. 

Have  fruit  fresh,  and  as  cold  as  possible  when  served.  That 
v/hich  has  stood  for  some  days  in  a  warm  room  is  not  very  tempting. 
Pounded  ice  is  an  agreeable  addition  to  a  dish  of  raspberries,  straw- 
berries, or  currants.  Pound  it  in  a  clean  cloth  until  it  is  almost  as 
fine  as  snow,  and  then  spread  it  over  the  berries.  If  sliced  fruits  or 
berries  are  sprinkled  with  sugar  and  allowed  to  stand  1  or  2  hours  be- 
fore serving,  they  will  be  much  improved. 

Grape  scissors,  a  melon  knife  and  fork,  and  nut  crackers  should 
always  be  put  on  the  table  if  there  are  dishes  of  fruit  requiring  their 
use. 

There  are  many  very  attractive  ways  of  preparing  fresh  fruits  for 
desserts,  etc.,  which  we  explain  elsewhere,  such  as  "  Frozen  Fruit," 
"Frosted  or  Iced  Fruit,"  "  Glaces,"'  "  Cream= Coated  Fruit,"  "Fruit 
Molds,"  "Fruit  Ice  Creams,"  etc.,  which  the  reader  can  readily  refer 
tc 

30 


466 


FRESH  FRUITS  AND  NUTS 


APPLES. — Choose  those  which  are  not  too  sour,  and  which  have 
a  pleasant  taste;  wipe  them  clean,  or  polish  brightly  with  a  cloth, 
and  mix  together  different  colors,  like  red  and  yellow,  piling  them  up 
on  a  dish  when  they  are  to  be  served  at  the  table. 

APRICOTS — These  need  only  a  few  green  leaves  to  garnish 
them.     Pile  them  high  on  a  glass  or  other  dish. 

BANANAS. — These,  if  whole,  should  be  piled  on  either  high  or 
low  dishes,  and  high  in  the  center,  with  bright  green  leaves  to  make 
them  look  pretty.  They  are  often  mixed  in  with  oranges  and  grapes. 
Bananas  make  a  delicious  dessert  if  the  skins  are  taken  off,  and  they 
are  cut  crossways  into  thin  slices,  and  then  sugar  and  cream  served 
on  them.  Or,  after  slicing  them,  si)rinkle  on  sugar  and  add  a  little 
orange  juice.  Alternate  layers  of  bananas  and  oranges  (peeled  and 
sliced)  with  sugar  on  each  layer  are  very  nice.  It  will  be  an  im- 
provement to  let  the  fruit  get  very  cold,  and  cover  with  whipped 
cream  when  serving.  Bananas  and  strawberries  also  go  well  to- 
gether. 

BERRIES. — Choose  the  freshest.  It  is  better  not  to  wash  them 
unless  they  need  it,  but  pick  them  over,  hull  them,  spread  a  layer  in 
a  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  then  put  in  another  layer  of  berries,  and 
so  on  alternately.  Set  them  in  a  cold  place  until  ready  to  serve,  and" 
then  put  on  a  layer  of  crushed  ice.  If  necessary  to  wash  them,  use 
cold  water,  wash  a  few  at  once,  and 
then  hull  them,  handling  as  little  as 
need  be.  Do  not  stir  them  wuth  a 
spoon  nor  drain  them  with  a  colander. 
Then  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  set  away 
as  before.  Do  not  wash  berries  after 
being  hulled,  as  more  or  less  juice  es- 
capes with  the  hulling,  and  the  less 
they  are  then  disturbed  the  better.  It 
improves  their  appearance  to  garnish 
them  with  a  border  of  green  leaves. 

Blueberries,  blackberries,  huckle- 
berries, whortleberries,  etc.,  are  all 
served  much  the  same  way. 

The  Whobtlebekky  is  native  to  the  nortli- 
ern  parts  of  the  world,  and  there  are  many 
varieties.  The  fruit  contains  about  71%  water, 
6.7^  sugar  and  l.S^  free  acid.  It  is  very  whole- 
some. 

The  Bluebebky  belongs  to  the  same  species  as  the  bilberry,  whortleberry,  etc. 


nOETLEBEEEY. 


FRESH  FRUITS  AND  NUTS  467 

It  is  found  in  most  northern  countries.     It    is    a    very    -wholesome    and    palatable 
fruit,  and  its  composition  is  about  the  same  as  the  whortleberry. 

CHERRIES — These  can  be  piled  in  rows  and  high  like  a  pyra- 
mid. They  are  also  nice  if  kept  in  clusters.  Then  garnish  with 
green  leaves  if  convenient. 

COCOANUTS. — These  can  be  grated  and  served  with  either 
cream  or  jelly  as  preferred,  or  both  can  be  used;  or  serve  them  with 
jelly  or  jam.  For  whatever  dish  cocoanut  is  to  be  used  it  will 
be  more  digestible  if  X3ut  to  soak  for  a  time  in  any  liquid, 
such  as  milk,  etc.,  which  is  to  form  an  ingredient  of  the  dish. 
Adding  a  little  lemon  juice  is  also  to  be  recommended.  Vanilla  and 
rose=water  are  favorite  flavorings  for  dishes  made  from  cocoanut. 

CURRANTS — When  fully  ripe  these  are  delicious  and  attractive 
in  appearance.  Mix  together  the  red  and  white  on  bunches,  in  alter- 
nate rows,  with  leaves  bordering  the  outside;  or  pick  them  from  the 
stem  and  sweeten  them.  They  are  delicious  served  with  raspberries. 
They  are  nice  crystallized  or  frosted.  The  method  of  preparing 
them  is  explained  in  our  article  on  "Home  Candy  Making"  (which 
see). 

DATES,  FIGS,  FRENCH  PLUMS,  ETC.— These  are  all  served 
on  small  glass  plates  or  oval  dishes,  piled  high  in  the  center.  Gar- 
nish them  with  green  leaves. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  OR  SHADDOCK.— Peel  in  sections  like  the 
orange,  remove  the  bitter  white  membrane  cov- 
ering the  sections,  break  open  the  pulp  and 
serve.  Sugar  is  sometimes  added,  and  some- 
times it  is  sprinkled  on  and  left  for  1  or  2  hours 
or  over  night,  but  many  prefer  the  fruit  un- 
sweetened. This  fruit  is  wholesome  and  re- 
freshing, and  it  deserves  to  be  more  highly 
appreciated,  but  by  many  the  taste  for  it  has  to 
be  acquired. 

RIPE  FIGS. — Peel  and  slice  fresh  figs,  and 
serve  with  pulverized  sugar  and  cream. 

GOOSEBERRIES..— These  should  be  piled  high,  but  need  no 
other  arrangement,  except  a  few  green  leaves  for  decoration. 

GRAPES — Examine  these  carefully,  and  pick  out  all  which  are 
withered  or  unsound.  Rinse  them  in  cold  water,  Malagas  especially. 
Have  the  bunches  of  medium  size,  dividing  the  large  ones.  They 
can  be  piled  in  a  pyramid,  with  a  few  hanging  over  the  side  of  the 


FRESH  FRUITS  AND  NUTS 


MANGO    TBEE. 


dish.     Different  kinds  mixed  look  well,  by  the  contrast  of  colors,  and 
their  own  or  other  green  leaves  can  be  placed  at  the 
edge  of  the   dish.      Divide  the  bunches  with  fruit 
scissors. 

THE   GUAVA — This  is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  which 
grows  in  the  tropics.      It  is  an  agreeable  and  whole- 
some fruit,  its  taste  when  quite  ripe  being  not  unlike 
that  of  strawberries  and  cream.      The  fruit  is  eaten 
raw,  but  is  also  made  into   jams   and  jellies.      The 
rind  is  sometimes   stewed  with  milk.      The 
fruit    is    also    eaten    fresh   with   sugar   and 
cream,  and  it  can  be  preserved  or  canned  like 
other  fruit. 

THE  MANGO. — The  mango  is  a  native 
of  India,  but  grows  in  other  tropical  coun- 
tries. The  fruit  is  finely  flavored,  sweet, 
cooling,  and  medicinal,  especially  if  partaken 
of  early  in  the  morning,  but  it  is  too  perisha- 
ble to  transport  to  a  distance.  The  unripe 
fruit  is  made  into  i)ickles  often. 

MELONS. — These  should  be  very  cold  when  served,  and  are 
best  kept  on  ice  a  few  hours  before  serving.  They  may  be  cut  in 
strix3S  and  piled  up  on  a  platter,  or  merely  cut  crossways.  The  ice 
should  not  be  allowed  to  come  in  contact  with  the  inside  of  the 
melon.  Eat  with  a  spoon  or  fork.  They  are  eaten  alone,  or  witli 
salt,  sugar  or  peisper,  sprinkled  on. 

CANTELOPES. — Chill  by  keeping  them  on  ice  before  serving: 
cut  them  in  two,  remove  the  seeds,  and  serve  a  half  to  each  person. 
Serve  salt  with  them.     Eat  with  a  spoon. 

THE  MULBERRY — This  fruit  although  called  a  berry  is  in 
reality  a  spike.  When  to  be  used  as  a  dessert  it  should  be  freshly 
gathered  and  so  ripe  as  to  drop  from  the  tree.  It  has  a  fine  flavor 
and  a  sweet,  sub-acid  taste,  and  is  succulent,  sugary  and  rich.  The 
fruit  drops  as  soon  as  it  is  ripe  and  is  eaten  much  like  blackberries 
and  raspberries  which  it  resembles  somewhat.  It  makes  fine 
preserves. 

OLIVES. — These  can  be  most  attractively  served  by  draining 
them  and  putting  them  in  a  small  fancy  dish  on  a  bed  of  broken 
ice,  with  a  small  silver  fork  in  the  dish.  They  are  served  at  din- 
ders,  lunches  and  suppers,  and  are  placed  on  the  table  at  the  begin- 


FKESH  FRUITS  AND  NUTS 


469 


THE  OLIVE. 


ning  of  the  meal  and  are  left  until  it  is  over.      If  they  are  too  salt 

let  them  soak  in   cold   water   an   hour  before 

serving  them.      On  taking  them  from  the  table 

put  them  in  a  bottle  of  slightly  salted  water, 

covering  them   completely  to  keep  them  from 

darkening  in  color. 

The  Olive  tree  is  a  native  of  the  soutii  of  Europe. 
The  fruit  is  valuable  in  its  ripe  and  unripe  state.  Unripe 
olives  are  pickled  in  various  ways,  being  usually  pickled 
in  lime  water  which  renders  therh  softer  and  milder  in 
taste.  They  are  eaten  to  destroy  the  taste  of  viands  pre- 
viously eaten,  and  to  promote  digestion.  The  well=known 
olive  oil  is  obtained  mainly  from  the  external  part  of  the 
ripe  fruit. 

ORANGES. — These  may  be  served  whole,  piled  up  like  a  pyr- 
amid or  mixed  in  with  bananas  and  grapes.  If  served  whole  they 
can  be  cut  in  two  crossways,  without  peeling  them;  then  eat  with  a 
spoon,  sprinkling  on  sugar  or  not  as  preferred.  Or  they  can  be 
served  cut  in  halves,  and  laid  on  green  leaves;  or  with  the  peeling  cut 
and  rolled  down.  Or  they  can  be  peeled,  divided  into  sections,  the 
seeds  taken  out,  and  each  one  cut  in  3  pieces  with  a  silver  knife; 
then  sprinkle  on  sugar  just  before  serving.  In  Havana  a  fork  is 
run  into  the  orange  from  the  stem  end,  which  serves  as  a  handle; 
then  with  a  sharp  knife  the  peel  is  cut  in  strips  and  turned  down 
from  the  top,  and  the  orange  is  eaten,  which  leaves  the  fibrous  iDulp 
on  the  fork. 

THE  MANQOSTAN  OR  MAN= 
QOSTEEN.— This  tree  is  a  native  of 
the  tropical  parts  of  Asia  and  Africa. 
The  tree  grows  to  about  20  feet  in 
height,  and  it  has  a  regular,  tapering 
form  something  like  the  fir.  The  fruit 
in  size  and  shape  resembles  an  orange. 
It  is  dark  brown,  spotted  with  yellow  or 
gray,  and  it  has  a  thick  rind.  The 
fruit  is  very  juicy  and  deliciously  fla- 
vored, and  it  may  be  eaten  freely  with 
perfect  safety.  It  is  one  of  the  most 
delicious  of  fruits. 

PEACHES.— These  should  have  the  fur  wiped  ofp,  but  any 
other  garnish  than  a  few  green  leaves  is  superfluous,  as  their  own 
color  is  so  rich.  They  make  a  beautiful  center  dish.  Or  they  can 
be  pared,  sliced,  granulated  sugar  sprinkled  on,  and  served  at  once, 


MANGOSTAN  OR  MANG08TEEN. 


470  FKESH  FRUITS  AND  NUTS 

and  cream  passed  for  them.  Some  people  think  it  an  improvement 
to  grate  nutmeg  over  sliced  peaches.  Try  it.  Or  they  can  be  frozen 
or  frosted  by  the  methods  we  explain  in  our  articles  on  "  Ice  Cream  " 
and  "  Candy  Making,"  and  made  very  attractive. 

The  Nectarine  can  be  treated  like  the  peach  of  which  it  is  only 
a  variety. 

PEARS. — WijDe  them  with  a  cloth,  and  pile  them  high  like  a 
pyramid,  with  a  few  green  leaves  at  the  base.  For  eating,  select  fine 
grained  pears. 

PERSIMMONS.— When  dead  ripe   the   skin   will  be  so  tough 
that   the  calix  may  be  pulled  out,  and 
then   the    delicious    contents    may    be 
taken  out  with  a  spoon,  but  it  is  very 
astringent  unless  fully  ripe. 

The  persimmons  may  be  kept  for 
some  time  by  putting  a  layer  of  brown 
sugar  in  an  earthen  jar;  then  put  in  a 
layer  of  persimmons,  then  sugar,  and  so 
on  with  alternate  layers;  have  sugar  on 
top.     Keep  paper  closely  tied  over  the  peksimmons. 

top. 

Pebsimmon  is  the  fruit  of  the  Diospyros  virginiana.  It  grows  in  the  Southern 
States,  but  is  seldom  found  north  of  40°.  When  green  the  fruit  is  very  astringent, 
but  when  ripe,  or  when  mellowed  by  frost,  it  is  sweet  and  luscious.  By  a  course  of 
cross  fertalization  and  selection  the  Japanese  are  said  to  have  brought  this  fruit 
to  great  perfection. 

PINEAPPLES. — A  handsome  center=piece  is  formed  with  a  pine- 
apple surrounded  with  oranges  and  grapes.  A  pineapple  may  be 
pared,  and  then  holding  it  by  the  tuft,  use  a  sharp  knife  and  start 
the  fruit  in  thin  slices  and  tear  each  piece  from  the  hard  central 
core;  then  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  add  sugar  and  allow  it  to 
stand  in  the  refrigerator  some  time  before  serving,  to  form  juice. 
Another  way  is  to  cut  off  the  tuft,  then  cut  the  pineajople  into 
quarters  lengthwise;  take  out  the  hard  core,  and  grate  off  the  fruit 
until  the  rind  is  reached.  Pineapple  forms  a  good  desert  served  with 
lady  =^ fingers  or  slices  of  sponge  cake  in  a  row  around  the  dish. 
The  "strawberry"  is  considered  the  best,  and  the  "sugardoaf  "  next. 
It  is  also  nice  served  in  layers  with  cocoanut  and  oranges,  with  sugar 
between  the  layers;  after  preparing,  set  in  the  refrigerator  till  ready 
to  serve. 

The  rind  of  pineapple  contains  an  acid  which  will  make  the  lips  and  mouth 
sore  if  it  gets  on  them;  therefore,  peel  it  with  one  knife,  and  slice  it  with  a  clean 
fresh  one.     Salt  is  used  as  an  antidote  for  the  acid  if  it  gets  on  the  lips. 


FRESH  FRUITS  AND  NUTS 


471 


take  out  tlie  seeds,  and 


POMEGBANATE. 


POMEGRANATES.— Remove   the  skin, 
carefully  remove  all  the  thin  brown 
skin  separating  the  sections;  mix  the 
seeds  with   finely  pounded  ice  on  a 
pretty  dish,  and  serve. 

Pomegranate  is  native  to  Asia  and 
probably  Africa.  It  has  never  come  into 
very  extensive  use  in  Europe  or  America. 
The  pulp  has  a  delicate,  pleasant  flavor,  and 
its  sub=acid  juice  malces  it  cooling  and  grate- 
ful in  warm  climates.  The  rind  is  very 
astringent  (caused  by  the  tannin  it  contains) 
and  a  decoction  of  it  malies  a  good  gargle 
for  sore  throat,  and  is  good  for  diarrhea. 
The  tree  grows  to  a  height  of  15  or  20  feet. 
The  pulp  of  the  fruit  is  of  a  reddish  hue  and 
very  refreshing. 

PLUMS. — Pile  these  in  pyramidal  form.  A 
pretty  effect  is  produced  by  adding  sprays  of  nas- 
turtium leaves  and  blossoms. 

The  Sloe  is  the  parent  of  the  plum.  The  leaves  have 
been  used  to  adulterate  tea.  The  juice  is  sharp  and  astrin- 
gent, and  the  fruit,  when  ripe,  makes  good  preserves. 

RAISINS — Serve  only  the  choice  varieties  on 
the  table  like  the  loose  "Muscatels"  or  layer  raisins.  sloe. 

They  may  be  served  with  candy  and  nuts,  or  almonds  are  sometimes 
blanched  and  strewed  over  them. 

Raisins  contain  more  sugar  and  less  acid  than  fresh  grapes,  and  so  are  more 
nutritious  but  less  refrigerant.  If  eaten  too  freely  they  are  apt  to  derange  the  di- 
gestive organs. 

RASPBERRIES. — If  very  large  and  fine  they  are  sometimes  piled 
in  rows  in  pyramidal  form.  Otherwise  merely  pile  them  in  the  center 
of  the  dish  with  a  few  green  creepers  about  the  edge.  Some  people 
prefer  them  with  little  or  no  sugar.      Or  prepare  them  as  directed  for 

"  Berries.'* 

STRAWBERRIES — Put  them  in  a  pretty  dish  and  garnish  with 
some  of  their  own  green  leaves.  Large  fine  berries  are  served  by  the 
French  without  hulling;  each  one  is  taken  by  the  hull  and  dipped  in- 
to powdered  sugar,  which  is  xoassed  vrith  them,  and  then  eaten,  They 
are  also  niceinit  into  a  dish  in  alternate  layers  of  berries  and  sugar; 
then  whip  together  2  cu^^s  cream,  1  cup  of  pulverized  sugar  and  the 
whites  of  3  eggs.;  flavor  with  strawberry  or  orange  juice,  and  put  it 
on  toiD  of  the  berries.  Another  way  is  to  put  alternate  layers  of  ber- 
ries and  sugar  in  a  dish;  then  take  orange  juice  in  the  proportion  of 
3  oranges  to  2  pints  of  berries,  pour  it  over,  and  set  the  dish  in  a 


472 


FKESH  FRUITS  AND  NUTS 


cool  place  for  1  or  2  hours.      Sprinkle  pounded  ice  on  them  just  be- 
fore  serving. 

PRICKLY  PEAR.— Cut  a  slice  ofp  of  each 
end,  then  peel  it,  and  cut  the  pulp  into  slices. 
It  can  be  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar  and 
the  juice  of  an  orange  squeezed  on,  or  it  can  be 
eaten  unseasoned. 


PBIOKLY    PEAK. 


They  are 


The  Peiokly  Peab  is  the  fruit  of  a  species  of  cactus. 
It  is  of  a  purplish  color  and  it  is  covered  with  spines  so 
that  it  must  be  handled  carefully,  protecting  the  hand  with 
a  napkin.  The  fruit  is  freely  eaten  in  Mexico  and  it  is 
often  imported  from  there. 

THE  TAMARIND — This  tree  is  native  to 
the  West  Indies,  but  is  cultivated  in  warm 
climates.      The  tree  grows  to  a  height  of  about 

40  feet.  The  pods  are  from  3  to  6  inches  long  and  contain  pulp  and 
seeds.  The  pulp  is  juicy  and  acid.  It  contains  citric,  tartaric  and 
malic  acids,  with  potash,  sugar  etc.  It  makes  a  drink  which  is  cool- 
ing and  laxative.  Tamarinds  are  best  preserved  by  putting  alternate 
layers  of  tamarinds  and  vv^hite  sugar  into  a  stone  jar;  cover  with  sugar 
and  seal  tight. 

NUTS. 

If  served  with  the  shells  on  nuts  should  be  wiped. 

merely   piled  high   in   the  center   of  the  dish 

wdth  or  without  green  leaves  around  the  edge. 

It  is  best  to  crack  them,  however,  and  serve 

them  with  salt.     Nuts  with  a  tough  skin,  like 

almonds,    should   be  blanched.      Almonds,   fil- 

erts,  Brazihnuts,  hickory=nuts  aud  walnuts,  go 

well  with  raisins.     Nut  crackers  should  always 

be  provided  if  any  of  the  nuts  are  uncracked. 

Bbazil=nut8  are  the  seeds  of  a  majestic  and  beautiful 
tree  which  grows  to  a  height  of  100  to  120  feet.  When 
fresh  the  fruit  is  agreeable.  It  contains  a  very  large 
amount  of  oil.     They  are  rather  difficult  of  digestion.  bbazil«nut. 

CHESTNUTS,    ROASTED — Wash  the  chestnuts,  make  a  slit  in 

the  side  of  each  one;  boil  10  minutes  in  water  enough  to  cover  them; 
then  drain  and  bake  in  a  dripping  pan  for  10  minutes  in  a  hot  o»'en. 
Serve  hot  with  salt. 

SUGARED  ALMONDS. — Put  into  a  sauce^pan  ^  cup  sugar  and 
•|  cup  boiling  water;  boil  ^  hour,  and  add  1  cup  blanched  almonds: 
boil  till  the  sugar  grains  (about  5  minutes)  stirring  constantly;  then 
turn  them  on  a  buttered  dish  to  cool. 


DRIED  FRUITS  473 

For  Glazed  Almonds  proceed  the  same  way,  but  after  the  sugar 
grains  cook  until  it  begins  to  brown;  then  add  -I  cup  boiling  water 
and  cook  until  that  evaporates  and  they  are  a  dark  brown;  then 
spread  them  in  a  shallow  pan,  and  dry  them  in  the  oven. 

SALTED  ALMONDS — Shell,  blanch  and 
dry  the  almonds;  allow  2  teaspoons  butter  for 
each  cup  of  almonds-  put  these  in  a  frying=pan 
or  baking-dish  and  cook,  with  moderate  heat, 
until  the  almonds  are  a  delicate  brown,  sth-ring 
frequently — it  will  take  about  ^  hour.  Then 
sprinkle  with  salt  Put  them  on  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  meal  and  serve  them  with  the  crack- 
ers and  cheese. 

ALMOND    TEEE. 

Peanuts  can  be   salted   the   same   way,   first 
removing  the  shell  and  brown   skin.     Walnuts   can  be  salted   the 
same  way  also. 


DRIED  FRUITS. 

Many  people  do  not  appreciate  the  value  of  dried  fruit.  A  large 
part  of  the  water  evaporates  when  the  fruit  dries,  and  the  nutritive 
portions  are  left  in  a  more  concentrated  form.  The  percentage  of 
nutritive  elements  in  dried  apples  approaches  that  of  bread,  but  one 
great  drawback  to  the  use  of  dried  fruit  is  that  as  ordinarily  dried 
many  fruits  lose  much  of  their  peculiar  and  delicate  flavor.  Many  of 
the  fruits  are  readily  and  easily  dried  and  can  thus  be  kept  for  future 
use.  Cherries  and  peaches  are  (next  to  apples)  about  the  best  of  the 
dried  fruits. 

Fruits  like  apples,  etc.,  can  be  dried  by  putting  them  on  a  kind 
of  sieve=like  holder,  and  submitting  them  for  3^  hours  to  the  action 
of  a  cold  air  blast.  Thus  dried  they  are  superior  to  fruits  dried  by 
the  sun  or  hot  air. 

The  new  process  of  preparing  fruit  by  evaporation  has  overcome  many  of  the 
objections  to  the  old  fashioned  dried  fruit,  and  its  sale  has  increased  enormously. 
I*-,  is  probable  that  the  sale  of  evaporated  fruit  will  in  the  near  future  partly  or 
possibly  largely  supplant  canned  fruit  in  the  market,  as  it  possesses  many  advan- 
tages.    It  is  healthful  and  its  use  desirable. 

Fruit  which  is  to  be  dried  should  be  ripe  and  sound.  It  should 
be  spread  in  a  single  layer  on  boards  or  in  shallow  boxes.  Insects 
may  be  kept  away  by  covering  it  with  mosquito  netting.  Keep  it 
spread  in  the  hot  sun  until  it  is  fully  dry.  as  indicated  by  its  turning 


474  DRIED  FRUITS 

dark;  never  set  it  out  in  damp  or  cloudy  weather,  and  always  bring  it 
in  before  sunset,  to  prevent  the  dew  from  falling  on  it.  The  oven  is 
an  excellent  place  to  dry  any  fruit,  as  it  dries  more  quickly,  and  is 
not  so  much  exposed  to  insects;  but  do  not  let  the  oven  become  hot 
enough  to  scorch  the  fruit  at  all.  Fruits  are  still  further  preserved 
often  by  the  use  of  sugar,  as  in  some  of  the  recipes  which  follow. 

Keeping  it. — Dried  fruit  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  away 
from  the  light,  tightly  tied  in  thick  paper  bags,  or  in  closely  covered 
jars.  By  turning  it  occasionally  into  a  tin  x>an  and  setting  it  in  a 
hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  tying  it  in  the  bags  again,  there 
will  be  no  trouble  with  worms,  but  to  reheat  it  thus,  injures  its  flavor 
and  makes  it  dark  colored.  Security  against  moths  is  secured  by 
using  paper  sacks,  tightly  tied,  or  a  box  or  barrel  lined  with  paper. 
To  avoid  frequent  opening  of  large  packages  it  is  best  to  keep  a 
small  quantity  on  hand  in  fruit  jars.  It  is  sometimes  advised  to 
scatter  sassafras  bark  among  dried  fruit  to  keep  away  the  worms;  but 
its  flavor  will  spoil  the  fruit  for  many  people,  so  that  it  is  better  not 
to  use  it. 

To  cook  dried  fruit  let  it  soak  a  few  hours,  or  over  night,  in  soft 
water,  and  it  will  then  need  less  boiling;  then  slip  it  carefully  into  an 
aluminum,  earthen,  granite  or  porcelain4ined  sauce^pan,  azid  cook  it 
in  the  same  water  until  done,  thus  keeping  it  in  shaj^e;  it  is  best  not 
to  add  the  sugar  for  sweetening  until  about  5  minutes  before  taking 
it  from  the  stove.  Another  good  way  is  to  drain  the  water  off  when 
soaked,  add  sugar  to  make  a  syrup,  let  it  boil  up,  turn  in  the  soaked 
fruit  and  cook  until  tender;  it  equals  canned  fruit  w^lien  thus  cooked. 

DRIED  APPLES — The  apples  should  be  pared,  cut  into  slices, 
and  dried  in  the  sun  or  the  oven  as  above  explained. 

Pears  and  Quinces  can  be  dried  the  same  as  apples. 

Apples,  to  SItin. — By  pouring  scalding  water  on  apples  the  skin 
may  be  easily  slipped  off  and  much  labor  in  paring  them  saved. 

DRIED  BLACKBERRIES— The  cheapest  way  to  preserve  them 
is  to  carefully  dry  them  in  the  sun  as  you  would  apples.  Thus  pre- 
served they  make  excellent  pies.     Keex3  them  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

DRIED  CHERRIES — (1)  Cherries  may  be  put  into  a  slow  oven 
and  thoroughly  dried  before  they  begin  to  change  color.  They 
should  then  be  taken  out  of  the  oven,  tied  in  bunches,  and  stored 
away  in  a  dry  place.  Particular  care  must  be  taken  that  the  oven  is 
not  too  hot.  (2)  Another  method  is  to  take  the  stones  and  stems 
from  ripe  cherries;  spread  them  on  flat  dishes,  and  dry  them  in  a 
warm  oven  or  the  hot  sun;  pour  whatever  juice  may  have  run  from 


DRIED  FRUITS  475 

diem,  a  little  at  a  time,  over  them;  stir  them  about,  that  they  may 
dry  evenly.  When  they  are  perfectly  dry,  line  boses  or  jars  with 
white  paper,  and  pack  them  close,  in  layers;  strew  on  a  little  brown 
sugar,  fold  thj  paper  over,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place.  (3)  An- 
other plan  for  cherries  is  to  take  equal  quantities  of  cherries  and 
sugar;  boil  the  sugar  to  a  caramel;  have  the  cherries  stoned,  throw 
them  into  the  caramel,  and  let  them  cool.  Then  take  them  out  and 
put  them  in  a  sieve  to  dry,  in  a  slow  oven,  watching  them  carefully. 

DRIED  CITRON — Pare  and  quarter  it,  and 
boil  it  in  water  until  it  is  clear,  and  so  tender 
that  a  brooiji=^ straw  will  readily  penetrate  it; 
then   have  ready  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  JKSfM^^^^^j::?^ 

drain  the  citron,  and  boil  it  in  the  syrup  until 
the  sugar  permeates  it;  then  dry  it  slowly, 
spread  out  on  dishes,  turning  it  occasionally, 
and  sprinkling  on  powdered  sugar  several  times. 
When  sufficiently  dried,  pack  it  in  alternate 
layers  of  citron  and  sugar,  in  boxes  and  jars. 
It  can  be  used  for  cakes,  etc.  citeon. 

The  Citkon  belongs  to  the  same  genus  as  the  orange  and  lemon.  It  is  a  na- 
tive of  India,  but  is  cultivated  in  all  orange^growing  countries.  It  is  aciduous,  an- 
tiseptic, and  antiscorbutic  and  has  been  recommended  for  chronic  rheumatism, 
gout  and  scurvy.  It  is  not  unsuited  for  eating  in  its  natural  state,  and  the  juice 
mixed  with  water  and  sweetened  forms  an  excellent  drink.  The  prepared  rind  or 
peel  is  much  used  for  cooking  and  confectionery. 

DRIED  CURRANTS — Put  alternate  layers  of  currants  and  sugar 
in  a  jar,  using  1  cup  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  currants;  let  stand 
until  the  next  day  and  bring  them  to  a  boil,  and  boil  ^  hour;  skim 
them,  and  then  dry  in  a  slow  oven  or  the  sun,  spreading  them  out 
on  plates.  They  serve  well  in  i^udding  or  pies  instead  of  raisins. 
Keep  them  in  paper  bags,  or  in  stone  crocks  well  covered,  or  pack 
them  in  sugar  in  glass  jars. 

DRIED  GOOSEBERRIES — (1)  To  7  lbs.  of  red  gooseberries, 
add  1^  lbs.  powdered  sugar,  which  must  be  strewed  over  them  in  the 
preserving  pan;  let  them  remain  at  a  good  heat  over  a  slow  fire  until 
they  begin  to  break;  then  remove  them;  repeat  this  process  for  2  or  3 
days;  then  take  the  gooseberries  from  the  syrup,  and  spread  them  on 
sieves  to  dry.  The  syrup  may  be  used  for  other  purposes.  When 
the  gooseberries  are  quite  dry,  store  them  in  tin  boxes  on  layers  of 
paper.  (2)  They  are  sometimes  dried  in  a  moderate  oven  or  the 
sun,  without  the  sugar,  as  directed  for  cherries.  Select  firm,  ripe 
fruit. 


476  DKIED  FRUITS 

DRIED  PEACHES. — (1)  Take  free=stone  peaches,  cut  in  halves 
and  place  them  on  plates,  hollow  side  up;  fill  the  hollows  with  gran- 
ulated sugar,  and  place  in  a  slow  oven,  or  in  the  sun,  if  the  weather 
is  fine,  until  they  are  half  dry;  then  pack  them  in  glass  jars,  hollow 
side  down;  first  a  layer  of  dry  sugar,  then  a  layer  of  peaches  mashed 
flat  with  the  small  end  of  a  potato  masher,  then  layers  of  sugar  and 
fruit  until  the  jar  is  full,  having  a  layer  of  sugar  on  top.  Screw  on 
the  covers,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  closet.  (2)  Another  way  is  to 
put  welhripened  peaches  in  boiling  water  for  1  or  2  minutes, — a 
whole  bushel  can  be  put  in  the  boiler  at  once;  then  turn  off  the  wa- 
ter and  the  skins  can  be  more  easily  and  quickly  removed,  they  can 
be  stoned  easier,  they  will  dry  quicker,  and  are  better  'when  dried. 
Dry  them,  sprinkled  with  sugar,  in  a  moderate  oven  or  in  the  sun. 
(3)  They  can  also  be  dried  without  removing  the  skins,  but  the  fur 
should  be  well  rubbed  with  a  piece  of  flannel;  then  dry  like  apples. 

PEACH  CHIPS — Use  1  cup  of  sugar  to  each  lb.  of  fruit;  boil 
the  sugar  in  water  enough  to  dissolve  it,  until  it  becomes  very  thick; 
then  put  in  the  peaches,  which  should  be  peeled  and  sliced,  and  scald 
them  well;  then  take  them  out  with  the  skimmer  and  dry  in  the  sun. 
When  dry,  pack  closely  in  jars  in  layers,  with  powdered  sugar  be- 
tween each  layer.  The  syrup  left  can  be  bottled,  and  used  in  pud- 
ding sauces,  blanc  manges,  etc.  The  chips  can  be  used  in  puddings 
instead  of  raisins. 

DRIED  PINEAPPLE — Pare  and  slice  the  fruit  thinly,  put  it  on 
dishes,  and  strew  on  it  a  plenty  of  powdered  sugar;  keep  it  in  a  very 
.slow  oven  8  or  10  days,  and  turn  the  fruit  every  day  until  dry;  then 
put  the  pieces  of  pineapple  on  tins  and  place  them  in  a  quick  oven 
for  10  minutes.  Let  them  cool,  and  store  them  away  in  dry  boxes, 
with  x)aper  between  each  layer. 

DRIED  PLUMS.— These  need  not  be  pared;  rub  the  skin  thor- 
oughly with  a  piece  of  flannel,  and  dry  in  the  sun  or  an  oven,  like 
apples. 

DRIED  WATERMELON  RINDS— These  can  be  dried  in  the  sun 
after  being  preserved,  and  they  can  be  used  instead  of  the  imported 
citron  for  cakes  and  puddings,  answering  very  well. 

The  melon  belongs  to  the  gourd  tribe.  It  has  never  been  found  in  a  wild 
state,  but  is  supposed  to  be  a  native  of  the  sub=tropical  parts  of  Asia;  it  is  properly 
the  fruit  of  a  hot  climate.  It  was  originally  named  the  niusk^melon.  The  water- 
melon although  less  sweet  than  the  muskmelon  is  more  juicy.  There  are  many  var- 
ieties, but  all  are  wholesome.  In  their  season  melons  are  beneficial  because  of  their 
action  on  the  kidneys,  but  they  should  not  be  eaten  unless  of  good  quality  and  fully 
ripe.  The  composition  of  watermelon  is  92%  water;  Q%  carbohydrates;  1%  albnmeQ- 
oids;  0.7^  fat,  and  0.3%  mineral  matters. 


COOKED  FRUITS  477 

COOKED  FRUITS. 

Baking,  stewing  and  frying  are  the  simplest  and  easiest  ways  of 
CGoking  fruit.  Do  not  pare  the  fruit  long  before  cooking  it,  or  it  will 
discolor  by  exposure  to  the  air,  and  its  delicate  flavor  will  be  im-* 
paired.  Cook  it  in  aluminum,  earthen  or  porcelain  kettles,  and  use 
earthen  dishes,  silver  or  aluminum  knives  and  wooden  spoons,  as  iron 
or  pewter  spoons  may  cause  discoloration.  It  is  better  not  to  prepare 
a  great  deal  of  stewed  fruit  at  once,  as  it  does  not  keep  long.  Only  a 
little  sugar  is  needed. 

Using  Sugar. — Many  cooks  do  not  understand  the  use  of  sugar  in 
cooKing  fruit.  The  sugar  in  ordinary  use  is  cane  sugar,  and  is  2^ 
times  as  sweet  as  grape  sugar,  but  is  closely  allied  to  it,  as  we  have 
explained  elsewhere.  Cane  sugar  can  be  changed  to  grape  sugar  by 
cooking  it  with  acids  and  thus  its  sweetening  power  will  be  reduced 
k)  that  of  grape  sugar  Some  cooks  put  their  sugar  in  with  a  mass  of 
acid  fruit  to  be  cooked,  and  keep  cooking  and  adding  sugar  as  the 
mass  gets  sweeter  until  at  last  they  use  2-|  times  as  much  sugar  as  they 
need  to  do,  because  the  cane  sugar  becomes  changed  to  grape  sugar.  If 
the  sugar  had  been  added  after  the  fruit  was  cooked,  much  less  would 
have  been  required,  and  the  result  would  have  been  far  more  satisfac- 
tory. By  bearing  this  in  mind  a  large  saving  can  be  made  in  the  use 
of  sugar.  Many  people  misapprehend  the  effect  of  sugar  on  the  acids 
of  fruits.  Enough  sugar  can  be  added  to  disguise  the  taste  of  the 
acid,  but  it  does  not  neutralize  it  as  an  alkali  would  do,  nor  does  it 
effect  any  chemical  change  in  the  acid  whatever. 

APPLE  BUTTER. — Boil  new  cider  down  |;  then  add  an  equal 
quantity  of  apples  which  have  been  pared,  quartered  and  cored; 
boil  until  the  apples  are  tender,  and  then  sweeten  with  light  brown 
sugar,  and  boil,  with  constant  stirring,  until  it  is  reduced  to  a 
smooth  buttery  mass;  spice  to  taste  and  jout  away  in  stone  jars.  If 
cooked  properly,  the  spices  can  be  omitted  if  desired,  as  the  true 
apple  flavor  is  preserved  better  without  them.  It  is  better  if  lef^ 
slightly  tart. 

FRIED  APPLES. — Cut  sour  ai^ples  from  the  cores  in  small 
chunks — do  not  peel  them — and  put  them  in  a  frying-pan  with  the 
fat  fried  from  2  or  3  slices  of  salt  pork;  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over 
them,  cover  tightly  with  a  plate  and  place  on  the  stove  where  they 
will  cook  slowly  ^  hour.  Serve  as  a  sauce  for  meat  at  dinner.  ■  They 
are  also  good  cold  with  bread  and  butter. 


478 


COOKED  FRUITS 


BAKED  APPLES. — Wash  sour  apples,  wipe  them  diy,  and  re- 
move the  cores;  fill  the  holes  wdth  sugar,  and  add  a  little  spice  and  a 
piece  of  butter  on  each  apple;  put  -|-  cup  of  hot  water  in  the  pan  and 
bake  the  apples  until  tender.  Serve  with  sponge  cake.  If  i^referred, 
a  little  grated  lemon  peel  can  be  mixed  with  the  sugar  instead  of  the 
spice  and  butter;  baste  often  with  the  syrup  as  they  bake.  Baked 
ajjples  served  with  or  without  flavored  milk,  are  delicious. 

BAKED  APPLES,  No.  2 — Take  tart 
apples,  pare,  quarter,  and  place  them  in  a 
long,  shallow  pan,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
cinnamon  and  flour,  dot  with  small  pieces 
of  butter,  pour  in  a  little  water,  and  bake. 
Serve  warm. 

Baked  Apples  and  Oranges. — Take  6  good 
sweet  apples;  remove  the  blossom  end, 
pare,  and  put  in  a  baking-pan;  sprinkle  on 
1  small  cup  sugar.  Invert  a  pan  over 
them,  and  bake  until  tender;  let  them 
cool  in  their  own  juice,  then  pile  high 
in  a  glass  fruit  dish;  pour  the  sweetened 
juice  and  pulx)  of  8  oranges  over  them,  and 
sprinkle  on  the  grated  yellow  rind. 

APPLE. 

BOILED    APPLES.— Take    12     good 
whole  apples;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  and  pour  on  2  cups  boiling 
water;  boil  until  soft,  and  sweeten  on  taking  them  from  the  stove. 
Serve  hot  or  cold — best  cold. 

QLACED  APPLES — Partially  stew  large  whole  apples;  take 
them  out  and  bake  them.  Take  the  water  in  which  they  stewed 
add  white  sugar,  and  boil  until  it  will  form  a  soft  candy  when 
cool  (about  the  "crack"  degree).  Arrange  the  baked  apples  on 
the  dish  in  which  they  will  be  served,  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them 
hot.  When  cold,  an  amber  coating  of  soft  candy  will  have  formed 
about  each  apple,  which  will  add  to  its  appearance  and  taste. 

APPLE  MERINGUES.— Take  6  apples,  peel,  quarter  and  core 
them;  set  them  over  the  fire  in  a  sauce=pan,  with  2  tablespoons  of 
water,  stirring  occasionally  until  done;  then  mix  2  or  3  tablespoons 
of  sugar  with  them,  and  arrange  them  into  a  mound  in  a  silver  or 
tin  4ish.  Take  the  welhbeaten  whites  of  8  eggs,  and  add  8  oz.  pul- 
verized sugar;  spread  |  of  this  over  and  around  the  apples,  smooth- 
ing it  with  a  knife  dipped  in  cold  water;  i^ut  the  remainder  in  a  pip- 


COOKED  FRUITS  479 

ing  bag  (see  "Piping"  in  our  article  on  "Frosting  and  Icing"  in 
the  chapter  on  "  Cake")  and  decorate  the  dish  according  to  taste,  or 
put  small  knots  here  and  there,  over  and  around  the  dish.  Dust  with 
sugar,  and  put  into  a  hot  oven  20  or  25  minutes.  Serve  in  the  same 
dish. 

APPLE  SAUCE — Select  12  sour  apples,  pare,  core,  and  fill 
the  holes  with  sugar;  when  cooked  very  soft,  mash  through  a  sieve 
into  a  small  pudding  dish,  and  add  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon; 
beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  4  tablespoons  of  white  sugar;  add  it, 
and  brown  slightly.     Eat  cold 

Improved  Apple  Sauce. — Pare  and  core  10  tart  apples  and  stew 
with  as  little  water  as  possible;  then  add  1  cup  powdered  sugar; 
whip  the  whites  of  4  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to  the  apples,  and  stir 
rapidly  for  a  few  minutes.  Set  aside  to  cool,  and  serve  with  sweet- 
ened cream  flavored  with  lemon.  It  somewhat  resembles  ice  cream, 
and  makes  a  delicious  dessert  served  with  nice  cake. 

Improved  Apple  Sauce  No.  2. — Too  sweet  apples  do  not  cook  well. 
Cook  the  sliced  apples,  in  barely  water  enough  to  cover  them,  until 
tender  enough  to  mash  easily  through  a  colander;  sweeten  while 
warm,  and  season  with  rose-water,  lemon  juice  and  nutmeg.  Lemon 
peel  stewed  with  them  adds  a  delicate  flavor. 

CIDER  APPLE  SAUCE.— Take  4  quarts  of  sweet  apples,  pared, 
quartered  and  cored;  add  2  quarts  of  cider  either  sweet  or  boiled; 
cover  with  a  plate,  and  boil  slowly  but  steadily  until  the  apples  are 
cooked. 

DRIED  APPLE  SAUCE.— Look  over  and  wash  the  apples,  and 
let  them  soak  over  night  in  soft  water;  cook  them  next  morning, 
slowly  and  without  stirring,  until  they  are  tender;  about  5  minutes 
before  taking  from  the  stove  add  sugar  to  sweeten;  mash  through  a 
sieve,  and  flavor  with  cinnamon. 

Dried  Peach  Sauce  can  be  made  the  same  way,  but  do  not  mash  it, 
and  season  it  less. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE.— Pick  over  the  berries,  wash  and  scald 
them,  and  put  on  to  stew  over  a  moderate  fire,  adding  1  cup  water  for 
each  pound  of  cranberries;  cover,  and  stew  slowly,  stirring  as  little  as 
possible.  If  boiled  hard,  especially  when  first  put  on  the  stove,  it  is 
apt  to  separate  the  skin  from  the  berry.  Sweeten  them  to  taste  on 
taking  them  from  the  stove.  Part  of  the  acid  can  bo  extracted  from 
the  cranberries,  so  that  less  sugar  will  be  needed  to  sweeten  them,  if 
they  are  allowed  to  stand  first,  for  about  5  minutes,  in  boiling  water; 


480  COOKED  FKUITS 


gfOfS 


then  drain  them  out,  and  set  them  on  to  stew  with  fresh  water, 
few  raisins  added  to  cranberries  make  a  pleasant  combination. 

Cranberry  Sauce  No.  2.— Take  3 
cups  water,  1  lb.  of  raisins,  and  2 
quarts  of  cranberries;  boil  until 
soft  enough  to  sift  easily;  pass  it 
through  a  sieve,  add  2  cups  sugar, 
and  boil  10  minutes.  If  some  of 
it  is  desired  for  immediate  use 
pour  it  into  a  mold;  can   the   re-  oeanbeeeies. 

mainder  for  future  use.     Or   they 

can  be  cooked  together,  sweetened,  and  set  aside  to  cool  without  be- 
ing  lout  through  the  sieve. 

BANANAS,  BAKED — Peel  the  bananas,  cut  them  in  halves, 
and  irat  them  in  a  shallow  pan;  for  each  banana  allow  1  tablespoon 
of  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  of  hot  water;  melt  a  little  butter  in  the  hot 
water  and  pour  it  over  the  bananas;  with  the 
sugar  mix  a  little  salt  and  spice  or  lemon  juice, 
sprinkle  it  on  top,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  till 
brown — about  20  minutes. 


BANANA    TBKE. 


FRIED  BANANAS. -(1)  Choose  bananas 
which  are  not  quite  rijDe  (the  "Plantain"  being 
best) ;  peel,  slice,  and  drop  them  into  a  frying-pan 
containing  smoking  hot  fat,  about  ^  inch  deep; 
they  will  soon  brown;  then  take  them  out  and 
serve  hot,  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt,  or,  if  for 
dessert,  sprinkle  with  sugar  instead.  (2)  Or  peel,  slice,  egg  and 
bread=crumb  them,  and  fry  to  a  delicate  brown  in  a  kettle  of  smoking 
hot  fat;  drain  on  a  sieve  or  blotting  i^aper  and  serve. 

The  Banana  grows  almost  everywhere  in  the  tropics.  It  is  really  a  variety  of 
the  plantain,  and  is  very  much  like  it.  It  is  a  nutritious  food,  and  contains  less 
water  and  more  nitrogenous  matter  then  most  fresh  fruits.  It  is  always  eaten  ripe, 
and  then  contains  much  sugar,  but  little  starch.  A  pound  of  bananas  contains  as 
much  nutriment  as  .S  lbs.  of  potatoes,  and  there  is  every  reason  to  encourage  their 
more  extensive  use. 

DATE  SAUCE. — Prepare  dates  for  cooking  as  directed  under 
"Cake."  (1)  Pare,  core  and  quarter  apx^les,  and  stew  until  nearly 
done;  then  add  an  equal  quantity  of  dates  and  stew  until  tender,  but 
no  longer;  sweeten  to  taste.  (2)  Another  way  is  to  pare  and  core 
apples,  without  quartering  them,  fill  the  center  of  each  apple  with 
dates,  pour  on  a  little  hot  water,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  the 
dish  in  w^hich  they  are  to  be  served;  then  cover  with  a  meringue  and 
brown  slightly  in  the  oven. 


COOKED  FRUITS  481 

DRIED  BERRIES,  STEWED.— To  stew  dried  berries  take 
about  1  quart  of  water  to  1  pint  of  berries,  and  boil  slowly  and 
steadily  ^  hour.  Sweeten  to  taste.  The  various  dried  berries  are 
cooked  alike.  Easpberries  and  blackberries  mixed  are  nice,  using 
the  same  amount  of  each. 

FIG  SAUCE. — Scald  and  wash  ^  lb.  of  nice  figs;  take  every  seed 
from  ^  lb.  of  raisins,  tearing  them  in  two  pieces  as  you  seed  them; 
cut  the  figs  in  very  small  pieces  and  mix  with  the  raisins;  add  water 
enough  to  cover  them,  and  steam  1  hour  in  a  pudding  dish.  It 
makes  a  delicious  sauce  for  tea,  or  dessert  for  dinner. 

GOOSEBERRY   FOOL.— Take  off  the  tops  and  stalks  from  1  lb. 
of  gooseberries  and  stew  them  with  ^  cup  sugar  in  -^  cup  water;  then 
pulp  through  a  sieve.       Whip  2  cups  cream  and 
beat  into  the  pulp. 

GOOSEBERRY  TRIFLE.— Put  1  quart  of 
gooseberries  with  1  lb.  of  sugar  in  a  kettle  and 
boil  until  reduced  to  a  pulp.  When  cold,  place 
in  a  dish,  pour  over  it  1  quart  boiled  custard,  and 
cover  with  whipped  cream. 

The  Goosebeeky  belongs  to  the  same  order  of  plants 
as  the  red  and  black  currants.  It  does  not  appear  to  have 
been  known  to  the  ancients.  The  name  is  by  some  thought 
to  be  a  corruption  of  the  Saxon  gorst  (gorse=berry,  mean-  goosebeeby. 

ing  rough=berry).     The  skin  is  very  indigestible.     The  acid 
is  principally  citric  and  malic.       Red  gooseberries  contain 

more  acid  than  the  white,  but  when  that  is  masked  with  sugar  they  are  most 
■wholesome.  The  red  variety  makes  an  excellent  jelly  which  is  light  and  refresh- 
ing, and  is  good  for  bilious  and  plethoric  persons,  and  invalids  generally  who  need 
light  and  digestible  food,  but  it  is  not  very  nourishing. 

LEMON  BUTTER.— Take  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  the  grated 
rind  of  1,  2  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  4  eggs;  beat  all 
well  together,  place  over  the  fire,  and  stir  until  the  consistency  of 
honey. 

LEMON  JELLY. — Mix  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  and  1  grated  lemon; 
boil  until  thick. 

PEACHES,  TO  SKIN — If  peaches  are  dipped  in  boiling  hot 
M^ater  for  an  instant  the  skins  will  readily  slip  off,  saving  labor  in 
paring  them. 

BAKED  PEACHES — Choose  those  which  are  ripe,  or  nearly  so, 
put  them  in  a  deei3  earthen  dish,  sprinkle  on  sugar,  and  bake  until 
done,  keeping  them  covered. 

PEACH   BUTTER.— (1)  Take  1  gallon  of  sweet  cider  and  boil 

31 


482  COOKED  FRUITS 

it  down  one-half;  into  this  put  soft  peaches,  pared  and  cut  into 
pieces,  and  boil,  with  frequent  stirring,  until  they  are  reduced  to  a 
pulp;  just  before  taking  from  the  fire  add  sugar,  if  it  is  not  sweet 
enough,  and  cloves  and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Keep  in  tightly  covered 
jars.  (2)  Take  ripe  peaches,  pare  and  stone  them,  and  put  in  a 
kettle;  add  a  little  water  and  boil  them  soft,  and  then  pass  through 
a  colander.  Then  add  1^  cups  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  peaches,  and 
boil  slowly  1  hour,  stirring  often;  do  not  let  them  burn.  Keep  in  a 
cool  place  in  stone  or  glass  jars. 

FRIED  PEACHES — Take  ripe,  freestone  peaches,  cut  them  in 
two,  remove  the  stones,  and  at  once  drop  each  half,  the  cut  side 
down,  into  a  frying=pan  containing  about  ^  inch  of  smoking  hot  fat; 
as  soon  as  they  are  a  light  brown,  turn  them  over  and  fry  the  other 
side;  as  soon  as  heated  through,  transfer  them  to  a  hot  platter. 
Serve  them  hot,  the  hollow  side  up,  sprinkling  on  a  little  pulverized 
sugar. 

STEWED  PEARS — Cover  medium  sized  pears  with  water, 
adding  4  to  6  ounces  of  sugar  for  each  pint  of  water;  cook  in  a  slow 
oven  until  done — 1  or  2  hours  or  more  according  to  ripeness.  Take 
out,  and  when  cold  remove  the  cores,  using  a  long  cutter;  reduce  the 
syrup  well;  fill  the  interior  of  the  pears  with  whipped  cream  flavored 
with  vanilla  and  pour  the  syrup  around  them.  Serve  more  whipped 
cream  with  them.  For  a  change  gelatine  may  be  added  to  set  the 
syrup;  when  cold,  chop  it,  and  pile  around  or  over  the  fruit. 

Apples  are  also  nice  thus  treated. 

BAKED  PEARS — Pare  and  core  the 
pears  without  dividing;  place  them  in  a  pan 
and  fill  the  hole  in  each  pear  with  brown 
sugar;  add  a  little  water  and  bake  until  per- 
fectly tender.  Serve  cold  with  cream  or 
boiled  custard.  (2)  Hard  pears  or  "wind- 
falls "  can  be  pared,  quartered  and  cored,  and 
put  into  a  deep  jpudding  dish;  add  1  cup 
water  and  1  cup  sugar  for  each  2  quarts  of 
pears-  cover  closely,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven — it  will  take  several  hours.  They  will 
keep  then   indefinitely,   if  sealed  in  Mason 

jars  as  soon  as  they  are  done,  and  while  still  hot.  Fruit  that  is  often 
left  on  the  ground  to  waste,  may  be  saved  thus  and  made  useful. 

CHIPPED  PEARS.-^Take  pears  not  quite  ripe;  pare  and  core 
them,  and  cut  into  long,  thin  strips;  to  8  lbs.  of  the  fruit  add  6  lbs. 


COOKED  FRUITS  483 

of  sugar,  the  juice  of  3  lemons  and  the  rind  cut  into  strips,  2  cups  of 
water  and  2  tablespoons  of  ginger;  boil  the  whole  until  the  fruit  is 
transparent,  and  then  bottle. 

The  Peak  belongs  to  the  same  order  as  the  quince  and  the  apple,  and  is  one 
of  the  most  valuable  fruit  trees  of  temperate  climates;  there  are  about  150  varie- 
ties, but  none  of  them  keep  as  well  as  apples.  They  are  perfectly  wholesome  when 
ripe,  but  not  when  green,  although  they  may  then  be  stewed.  A  fermented  liquor 
called  perry  is  made  from  the  pear.     Its  acid  is  tartaric  principally. 

PLUM  CHARLOTTE.— Take  1  quart  of  ripe  plums,  stone,  stew, 
and  then  sweeten  them;  place  slices  of  bread  and  butter  in  the  bot- 
tom and  around  the  sides  of  a  large  bowl  or  deep  dish,  and  pour  in 
the  plums,  boiling  hot;  cover  the  bowl  and  set  it  away  to  cool  gradu- 
ally.    Send  it  to  the  table  cold,  and  eat  with  cream. 

DAMSON  SAUCE. — Take  6  lbs.  ripe  damsons,  1  quart  cider  vin- 
egar, 1^  lbs.  sugar;  boil  until  the  damsons  are  soft,  then  take  them 
out,  mash  them,  put  back  into  the  syrup  and  boil  from  |-  to  f  hour, 
stirring  them  and  watching  that  they  do  not  stick  to  the  kettle  or 
burn. 

PRUNE  SAUCE — (1)  Soak  the  prunes  over  night;  in  the  morn- 
ing boil  until  they  will  slip  from  the  stones  easily;  when  used,  slip 
them  from  the  stones  and  serve  with  thick  cream.  (2)  To  1  lb. 
prunes  when  put  on  to  stew,  add  the  juice  and  thin  yellow  rind  of  an 
orange;  when  done  (when  the  stones  are  loose)  sweeten  with  plenty 
of  sugar.  This  sauce  is  excellent  with  rabbit,  roast  pig,  kid,  venison 
or  fawn. 

STEWED  PRUNES — Select  good  prunes,  wash  them,  and  let 
soak  1  or  2  hours  if  dry  and  hard;  then  cover  them  with  boiling 
water,  cover  closely,  and  boil  until  tender  and  swollen;  then  for  each 
quart  of  prunes  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  boil  a  little  more, 
but  not  long  enough  to  break  the  skins.  A  little  lemon  juice  may  be 
added  if  they  are  deficient  in  flavor. 

Prunes  are  simply  dried  plums.  They  are  often  used  for  their  laxative  effect 
by  persons  subject  to  habitual  constipation. 

BAKED  QUINCES — Choose  ripe  quinces,  wash  and  core  them, 
fill  the  cavities  with  sugar,  put  in  a  baking  pan  with  a  little  water 
and  bake  until  soft.  They  are  very  fine  if  eaten  with  sugar  and  but- 
ter when  hot. 

STEWED  QUINCES. — Choose  good  quinces,  and  pare,  quarter 
and  core  them;  add  sufiicient  water  to  \  cover  them,  cover  closely, 
and  stew  until  tender;  for  each  lb.  of  quinces  add  1  cup  of  sugar, 
cover  closely,  and  cook  until  a  thick  syrup.  If  \  as  many  apples  as 
quinces  are  used  it  makes  a  nice  dish. 


484  COOKED  FRUITS 

RAISINE. — Take  very  ripe  but  quite  sound  grapes,  squeeze  the 
juice  from  them  and  boil  until  it  is  reduced  a  half.  Peel  and  core 
some  pears,  quarter  them,  put  them  in  this  grape  syrup,  and  boil  till 
it  is  reduced  a  third.  It  may  be  made  with  unripe  grapes,  but  then 
sugar  must  be  added,  allowing  ^  lb.  to  each  pint  of  grape  juice. 

STEWED  RHUBARB — Peel  it,  cut  into  inch  pieces,  stew  it  un- 
til soft,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  If  very  sour,  it  can  be  allowed  to  first 
stand  5  minutes  in  boiling  water,  then  drain  it  out  and  put  it  in 
fresh  water  to  stew.  This  extracts  part  of  its  acid,  and  less  sugar  is 
then  needed  to  sweeten  it.  Rhubarb  and  green  currants  mixed  to- 
gether, stewed,  and  sweetened  to  taste,  make  a  pleasant  sauce. 

RHUBARB  BUTTER— To  each  pound  of 
rhubarb,  which  is  peeled  and  chopped,  allow  2 
cups  sugar;  let  them  simmer  together  until  it  is 
done. 

A  Hint. — If  equal  quantities  of  rhubarb  and 
any  other  kind  of  fruit  are  mixed  together  the 
rhubarb  will  soon  taste  exactly  like  the  other  fruit. 

Rhubabb  is  a  native  of  Asia,  and  its  introduction  into 
Europe  is  of  quite  recent  date.  It  belongs  to  the  buck- 
wheat order.  Although  it  cannot  be  eaten  raw,  when  cooked 
it  is  uuch  used.      All  kinds  are  best  for  culinary  purposes  khubakb. 

when  blanched.     The  stalks  are  sometimes  jiartly  blanched 

by  putting  a  headless  barrel  over  them  and  allowing  them  to  grow  up  through  it. 
Its  food  value  is  small,  not  J^  of  its  solid  matter  being  nutritive.  It  contains 
about  2%  of  sugar,  which  is  its  chief  nutritive  element.  Its  sour  taste  is  due  to  the 
presence  of  oxalic  acid,  of  which  it  contains  0.3^.  In  some  conditions  of  the  body, 
rhubarb,  sorrel,  and  other  plants  containing  oxalic  compounds,  are  best  avoided. 
Oxalic  acid  is  always  and  everywhere  an  irritant  poison,  but  the  amount  in  rhubarb 
is  small. 

TAMARIND  SAUCE.— Fill  a  stone  jar  with  thoroughly  ripe 
tamarinds,  and   put    into   a   cool   oven   until  ,,^ 

quite    tender,    adding    during    the    stewing  "^^^^^^^T" 

enough  sugar,   but   not   more   than   enough,  "^SI^Ih^^^^ 

to  take    away    the   extreme   acidity    of   the  ^^HM^^^^^^ 

fruit;   then   rub   through  a  sieve.  ^"^S^B^^^^^^ 

The  tamarind  sold  in  the  markets  is  often  adulter-  >^Bi^!«l^^^^^»^ 

ated  with  copper.     Its  presence  may    be  detected  by  ^BBBiiyMi^BE^^^*. 

putting  in  a  piece  of  polished  iron  or  steel  and  leav-  ^SBW^tIP^BI'^k'^ 
ing  it  for  a  while;  if  copper  is  present  the  metal  will  ^^r"\f'   ^      ^^ 

TAMAEIND    TKEE. 

TOMATO  BUTTER— Scald  the  tomatoes,  remove  the  skins,  and 
add  \  as  much  pared,  cored  and  quartered  apples  as  there  are  toma- 
toes; cook  slowly,  stirring  often,  till  reduced  to  the  consistency  of 


COMPOTES  485 

marmalade;  when  the  apples  begin  to  break,  sweeten  to  taste  with 
light  brown  sugar,  and  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  1  teaspoon  gin- 
ger, if  desired,  for  each  6  lbs.  of  the  fruit. 


COMPOTES. 

These  are  the  French  method  of  preparing  the  English  stewed 
fruit.  Compotes  consist  of  any  kind  of  fresh  fruit,  partly  cooked  in 
a  syrup  less  strong  than  that  used  for  preserves  or  jam,  and  are  used 
the  same  day  they  are  made.  If  enough  sugar  is  allowed  they  will 
keep  good  for  2  or  3  days,  in  a  cool  place.  If  there  is  any  sign  of 
mold  or  fermentation,  it  may  be  checked  on  its  first  appearance  by 
boiling  the  preparation  a  second  time  for  1  or  2  minutes.  They  are 
more  economical  and  wholesome  than  pastry,  and  superior  compotes 
can  be  served  for  dessert.  They  are  much  relished  by  persons  who 
cannot  eat  raw  fruit.  They  should  be  served  in  a  glass  dish  with 
cake. 

The  essential  thing  to  remember  in  making  compotes  is  that 
the  fruit  should  not  be  cooked  as  thoroughly  as  when  it  is  to  be 
served  as  stewed  fruit;  it  must  not  cook  enough  to  lose  either  its 
form  or  color.  After  the  fruit  has  simmered  in  the  syrup,  lift  it  out 
with  a  skimmer,  arrange  it  in  a  glass  dish  (called  a  Compoiier)  boil 
the  syrup  a  little,  let  it  cool,  and  pour  it  over,  straining  it  if  it  needs 
it.  If  an  insufiicient  amount  of  sugar  is  used  the  syrup  will  not  be 
clear  and  bright. 

Syrup  for  Compotes. — A  good  rule  is  to  allow  3  cups  of  water  for 
each  lb.  of  sugar;  boil  it  15  minutes,  removing  the  scum  carefully  as 
it  rises;  the  syrup  is  then  ready  for  use.  Articles  boiled  in  this  will 
not  keep  long,  it  being  suited  only  for  dishes  intended  to  be  eaten 
immediately;  more  sugar  must  be  added  for  syrup  intended  to  keep. 
Also  the  kind  of  fruit  and  its  ripeness  will  aflPect  the  amount  of  sugar 
needed. 

COMPOTE  OF  APPLES.— Select  moderate  sized  apples;  either 
pare,  halve,  and  core  them,  or  cook  them  whole  if  preferred;  then 
add  prepared  syruja  and  let  them  simmer  until  tender,  adding  a  little 
lemon  juice;  lift  out  the  apples  and  boil  the  syrup  a  little  to  thicken 
it;  cool  it  and  pour  it  over  the  apples.  Garnish  it  with  strips  of 
green  angelica,  candied  citron,  or  a  border  of  rice  jelly  or  plain 
boiled  rice,  or  put  a  slice  of  lemon  on  each  apple. 

Pears,  Peaches,  Apricots,  Bananas  and  other  fruit  may  be  prepared 
the  same  way,  but  it  is  best  to  stone  peaches  or  apricots. 


486  COMPOTES 

Oranges  shoula  be  peeled  and  divided  into  sections  without 
breaking  the  thin  skin;  then  treat  them  as  directed  for  apples. 

BANANA  COMPOTE. — Peel  and  slice  the  bananas  and  place 
them  in  a  dish  (alternate  layers  of  red  and  white  bananas  look  nice), 
pour  over  them  the  hot  syrup  for  compotes,  let  stand  till  cold,  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream. 

COMPOTE  OF  FIGS — Dissolve  ^  lb.  of  loaf  sugar  in  2  cups  of 
water;  add  1  lb.  of  dried  figs,  a  little  grated  lemon  rind,  and  stew  all 
very  gently  for  2  hours.  Have  some  sponge  cake  ready,  cut  into 
squares;  lay  a  stewed  fig  on  each  square,  add  a  little  lemon  juice  to 
the  syrup,  which  should  be  pretty  thick,  and  pour  it  over  the  figs. 
Serve  when  cold  with  thick  cream  or  wipped  cream.  It  makes  a 
dainty,  cheap  and  wholesome  dessert. 

A  Compote  of  Green  Figs  can  be  made  with  1| 
pints  of  green  figs  and  1  pint  of  the  prepared 
syrup,  and  proceed  as  directed  for  a  compote  of 
apples. 


The  Fig  is  a  native  of  Persia,  Asia  Minor,  etc.  The 
common  fig  in  its  native  land  bears  2  crops  a  year.  The 
figs  of  commerce  come  mainly  from  Turkey  and  the  coun- 
tries bordering  on  the  Mediterranean.  The  fruit  contair]s 
about  57  per  cent,  of  sugar,  and  is  wholesome  and  nutritious, 
but  the  seeds  are  indigestible,  and  sometimes  have  an  irri-  j.jq  tkee  and 

tant  action  on  the  bowels.  fbuit. 

GOOSEBERRY  COMPOTE— Gooseberries  for 
compote  should  not  be  very  ripe;  top  and  tail  them,  pour  on  some 
boiling  water,  then  take  them  out  and  plunge  them  into  cold  water 
containing  a  little  vinegar,  which  will  assist  in  keeping  the  color 
good;  then  drain  them,  put  them  into  the  syrup,  and  proceed  as 
directed  for  apples,  being  careful  not  to  break  their  skins. 

RASPBERRY  COMPOTE.— Use  ripe  fruit  and  allow  just  enough 
red  currant  juice  to  cover,  or  a  little  water  may  be  mixed  with  it. 
Use  a  shallow  dish,  add  a  little  granulated  sugar  to  the  currant  juice 
and  as  soon  as  it  boils  put  in  the  raspberries  and  cover;  then  remove 
from  the  fire,  and  when  cold  pour  into  a  dish. 

This  is  delicious  with  puddings  hot  or  cold,  or  with  plain  or 
frozen  cream,  and  is  also  excellent  iced. 

RHUBARB  COMPOTE— Cut  the  rhubarb  into  inch  lengths, 
and  boil  it  fast  in  plenty  of  water  until  soft;  at  once  drain  it  from 
the  water,  put  it  in  a  dish  and  sprinkle  on  sugar  (|  lb.  or  so  for  each 
lb.  of  fruit);  leave  until  cold,  and  there  will  be  plenty  of  syrup. 


COMPOTES  487 

STRAWBERRY  COMPOTE— Put  alternate  layers  of  strawber- 
ries and  sugar  in  a  stew-pan,  add  a  gill  of  currant  syrup  for  each  lb, 
of  fruit,  shake  it  over  the  fire  for  a  minute  or  two  and  then  turn  it 
out  to  cool.     Flavor  it  if  liked. 


JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES, 
AND  PRESERVES. 

\  I  /HESE  include  all  those  prei3arations  of  fresh  fruit  made  with 
)  I  /  a  sufficient  quantity  of  sugar  to  prevent  fermentation,  with- 
'-^J[^^  out  the  process  of  sealing  them  in  cans  or  bottles  while  hot. 
They  have  been  used  from  time  immemorial  under  the 
name  of  sweetmeats  or  preserves.  A  goodly  array  of  preserves  and 
jellies  in  her  store-closet  will  fill  the  heart  of  the  thorough  houses 
wife  with  great  satisfaction,  and  although  it  is  some  work  to  make 
them  she  will  know  that  they  are  pure  and  healthful,  while  often 
there  is  much  uncertainty  about  those  bought  at  the  stores. 

GENERAL  SUGGESTIONS. 

The  Fruit. — Fruit  intended  for  preservation  should  be  gathered  in 
dry  weather,  and,  if  possible,  while  the  morning  sun  is  on  it;  it  will 
then  have  its  finest  flavor,  and  will  keep  better  than  when  gathered 
at  any  other  time.  It  should  be  used  as  soon  as  possible  after  it  is 
gathered;  if  kept  a  short  time,  put  it  in  a  refrigerator  or  ice=house  — 
in  the  latter  it  will  keep  fresh  and  plump  for  several  days.  Fruit 
that  is  dusty  is  not  injured  by  being  rinsed  quickly  in  and  out  of 
cold  water,  but  if  gathered  during  or  immediately  after  a  rain  the 
juice  will  be  less  rich  and  less  full  of  flavor;  if  gathered  in  damp  or 
foggy  weather  it  will  soon  mildew,  and  so  will  be  worthless  unless 
used  immediately,  and  boiled  very  thoroughly,  when  it  can  be  made 
into  jams  or  preserves  that  will  keep,  but  they  will  be  of  inferior 
quality  and  doubtful  wholesomeness.  There  is  no  greater  mistake 
than  to  imagine  that  half -ripe  or  over^ripe  fruit  is  good  enough  for 
preserves.  The  fruit  should  be  free  from  dust,  and  any  which  is  un- 
sound should  be  cast  aside.  Whatever  fruit  has  been  boiled  should 
be  finished  up  the  same  day,  and  never  any  kept  over  night 
Quinces,  pears,  apples,  etc.,  can  be  kept  from  turning  dark  by  put- 
ting them  in  cold  water  as  soon  as  pared,  but  it  is  better  to  cook 
them  as  soon  as  possible. 

The  Sugar. — The  best  quality  of  sugar  either  white  or  brown  will 
be  found  the  cheapest  in  the  end.  For  the  more  delicate  kinds  of 
preserves  only  the  best  sugar  should  be  used.  Jelly  made  from  a 
bluish  white  sugar  will  not  harden    well.     An    inferior    quality   of 


JAMS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES,  ETC.  489 

sugar  is  sometimes  used  for  preserves 'or  canned  fruit,  but  when  that 
is  used  they  will  spoil  more  easily,  and  will  not  look  as  well.  If  too 
little  sugar  is  used  the  mixture  will  not  keep,  and  it  is  false  economy 
to  try  it.  If  too  much  sugar  is  used,  on  the  other  hand,  the  flavor  of 
the  fruit  will  be  lost.  Coarse  brown  sugar  conceals  the  flavor  of  the 
fruit,  and  moist  sugar  lacks  sweetening  power. 

The  water  used  for  melting  sugar  should  be  pure,  clear  and  entire- 
ly free  from  sediment,  as  any  cloudiness  will  impair  the  clearness 
of  the  product,  and  in  clear  jellies  this  is  objectionable. 

The  Utensils  Used. — The  best  vessels  to  use  in  cooking  fruits  for 
preserves  or  canning  are  aluminum,  porcelaindined  kettles  or  yellow 
ware  dishes.  Never  use  tin  vessels,  as  the  acid  of  the  fruit  acts  on 
the  tin  and  the  poisonous  acetate  of  lead  is  formed.  To  cook  the 
fruit  equally  throughout,  the  vessel  should  be  rather  large  in 
diameter  and  not  too  deep;  if  too  much  heaped  the  fruit  will  not 
cook  evenly.  Close  fitting  covers  should  be  provided,  and  put  on 
after  the  scum  has  done  rising,  so  as  to  retain  the  flavor  of  the  fruit 
with  the  steam.  Wire  sieves  and  iron  pots  destroy  the  flavor  and 
should  not  be  used.  Copper  or  brass  kettles  should  be  scoured  very 
bright  with  salt  and  vinegar  before  being  used,  and  the  fruit  removed 
at  once  on  taking  it  from  the  fire,  but  even  then  some  of  the  poison- 
ous verdigris  will  be  formed  by  the  action  of  the  acids  on  the  metal. 
Porcelain^lined  vessels  are  much  better.  Aluminum  vessels  are 
excellent  to  use,  because  the  citric,  malic  and  other  acids  found  in 
fruits  do  not  aflPect  that  metal. 

Fruit  should  be  stirred  with  either  an  aluminum,  silver  or  wood- 
en spoon — the  latter  is  best.  Iron,  tin  or  pewter  ones  will  spoil  the 
color. 

The  Pbinoiples  Involved, — -Although  the  sugar  passes  easily  into  the  state  of 
fermentation,  and  is  in  fact  the  only  substance  capable  of  undergoing  the  vinous 
stage  of  that  process,  it  will  not  ferment  at  all  if  the  quantity  be  suificient  to  con- 
stitute a  very  strong  syrup;  hence  syrups  are  used  to  preserve  fruits  and  other 
vegetable  substances  from  ttie  changes  they  would  undergo  if  left  to  themselves. 
Before  sugar  was  in  use  honey  was  employed  in  preserving,  but  it  is  now  replaced 
by  sugar.  In  putting  up  juice  or  fruit,  the  object  is  to  boil  it  with  sugar  to  such  a 
consistency  that  it  will  neither  ferment  nor  mildew. 

In  boiling  most  fruits,  it  is  best  to  boil  them  in  water  first,  and  add  the  sugar 
when  the  fruit  has  become  soft  and  the  juice  is  drawn  out.  The  first  object  in 
preserving  fruit  is  to  soften  it  by  boiling  in  water,  so  that  the  sugar  by  which  it  is 
preserved  may  penetrate  all  through  it,  and  so  preserve  it  well.  The  more  thor- 
oughly the  skimming  is  done  the  clearer  the  preserves  will  be. 

Fruit  jellies  owe  their  jelly=like  consistency  to  the  presence  of  a  sort  of  gum  = 
like  substance  which  they  contain  called  pectose,  or  pectic  acid.  This  substance, 
although  soluble  in  fruit  juice,  when  mixed  with  sugar,  exposed  to  heat,  and 
cooled,  will  coagulate.  Although  in  appearance  so  much  resembling  gelatine,  from 
a  chemical  standpoint  it  is  entirely  different,  being  nearly  allied  to  guvi,  but  it  has 
about  the  same  food  value  as  the  sugar  with  which  it  is  mixed.  The  pectose  di.)es 
not  develop  in  fruit  until  it  begins  to  ripen,  but  as  soon  as  the  fruit  is  over-ripe  it 


490  JAMS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES,  ETC. 

loses  its  gelatinizing  property.  For  jellies,  therefore,  fruit  should  be  gathered  ar, 
soon  as  fully  ripe,  or  just  a  little  before.  Overscooking  jelly  also  destroys  the  gel- 
atinizing properties  of  the  pectose. 

The  chemical  composition  of  the  various  preserves  is  simply  the  composition  of 
the  fruit  juice  and  fruit  itself,  with  the  loss  of  a  few  volatile  constituents,  and 
the  addition  of  cane  sugar. 

Home-made  preserves,  jams,  etc.,  when  properly  prepared  and  well  made,  are 
much  superior  to  those  which  are  sold  in  the  market.  Professor  Sharpless  says 
that  "  apple  sauce  is  frequently  pumpkin  boiled  with  cider;  that  raspberry  jam 
offered  for  sale  is  often  sour,  and  that  strawberry  jam  is  frequently  made  from  the 
refuse  strawberries  of  the  market." 

Putting  in  Jars  and  Keeping — Put  jellies,  jams,  and  marmalades  in 
small  glasses,  which  will  prevent  the  frequent  opening  necessary 
with  large  ones.  The  usual  method  has  been  to  lay  on  top  a  piece  of 
paper  dipped  in  brandy  or  alcohol  and  cut  to  fit  nicely,  and  then 
paint  a  larger  piece  with  white  of  egg  and  tie  it  on  over  the  other — 
some  people  tie  on  parchment.  A  much  simpler  and  easier  method 
for  jellies  is  when  they  get  cold  to  pour  on  melted  parafine.  It 
hardens  almost  immediately,  and  then  a  piece  of  brown  paper  can  be 
tied  on  to  keep  out  the  dust.  The  parafine  will  lift  off  easily,  and  it 
can  be  washed,  kept,  and  used  again  by  remelting. 

If  any  of  the  preparations  become  candied,  set  the  glasses  in 
water  and  let  it  boil  around  them,  which  will  remedy  it.  If  jellies 
are  put  in  wine  bottles  for  exportation,  put  1  tablespoon  of  alcohol  in 
each  bottle  before  sealing.  Look  over  jellies  the  last  of  the  summer, 
and  reboil  them  if  there  are  any  indications  of  fermentation. 

The  glasses  or  jars  into  which  jams,  preserves,  etc.,  are  put, 
should  be  perfectly  dry,  and  the  closet  in  which  they  are  stored 
should  be  neither  so  warm  that  they  ferment,  nor  so  damp  that  they 
become  moldy. 

Preventing  Mold. — Jellies  can  be  kept  from  molding  by  covering 
the  top,  when  cool,  with  pulverized  sugar,  melted  parafine,  or  oil,  like 
salad  or  cotton  seed. 

Mold. — Remember  that  mold  is  a  low  form  of  life  (it  is  a  plant)  and  a  certain 
amount  of  moisture  is  necessary  to  its  growth.  Its  seeds  are  so  small  that  they 
penetrate  the  tiniest  crack,  and  the  mold  spreads  readily  from  one  thing  to  anoth- 
er. If  specks  of  mold  appear,  the  plant  can  be  killed  by  putting  the  jars  in  a 
well*heated  oven,  or  by  putting  them  in  a  pan  of  water  and  letting  it  boil  around 
them.  Its  presence  is  always  an  injury,  detracting  from  both  the  wholesomeness 
and  flavor  of  the  article  it  attacks. 

Keep  jellies,  jams,  etc.,  in  a  dark,  cool,  dry  closet.  Paste  on  the 
side  of  each  glass  a  little  strip  of  paper  bearing  the  name  of  its  con- 
tents. If  glass  jars  are  used  for  preserves,  wrap  2  or  3  thicknesses  of 
paper  around  each  one,  which  will  exclude  the  light  and  keep  them 
from  bleaching. 

Coloring — The  only  coloring  suitable  for  any  fruit  preparation   is 


JELLIES  491 

some  vegetable  color,  like  those  we  give  for   "  Frostings "   in   our 
chapter  on  "  Cakes,"  but  they  should  be  used  sparingly. 


JELLIES. 

These  are  made  with  clear  fruit  juice  and  sugar,  the  usual  rule 
being  to  mix  them  in  equal  proportions.  As,  owing  to  the  change  in 
its  pectose,  fruit  will  not  make  jelly  when  it  is  over-ripe,  it  should  be 
gathered  for  this  purpose  just  as  it  turns  ripe.  If  you  wish  clear, 
firm  jelly,  do  not  make  it  in  damp  or  rainy  weather. 

When  a  sweet  fruit,  like  the  pear,  etc.,  is  used  in  making  jelly, 
add  some  very  sour  apple  juice — say  about  half;  or  for  strawberries 
use  red  currant  juice.  Alone,  the  sweet  fruits  do  not  make  good  jel- 
ly because  they  lack  pectose — the  substance  which  causes  fruit  juice 
to  jelly.  Gelatine  is  sometimes  added  with  cherries  and  some  other 
fruits;  allow  a  package  to  each  |  gallon  of  juice  when  it  is  used. 
Grapes  are  unreliable.  Crab  apples  jelly  readily.  Combining  2 
fruits,  like  |  currants  to  ^  raspberries,  improves  the  flavor  of  jams 
and  jellies.  Another  excellent  combination  for  jelly  is  ^  apple  juice 
to  |-  peach  juice.  A  delightful  jelly  is  made  from  swamp  huckleber- 
ies  or  low  blackberries.  Barberries,  currants,  apples,  grapes  and 
quinces  all  jelly  well.     Damsons  make  an  excellent  jelly. 

To  Make  Jelly. — In  making  jellies  cut  large  fruit  into  small  pieces; 
add  water  enough  to  prevent  the  fruit  from  burning — apples  and 
quinces  need  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  currants  less; 
cover  the  kettle  and  boil  slowly  until  the  fruit  is  soft.  Then  put 
both  fruit  and  juice  into  the  jelly  bag,  and  allow  it  to  drip,  setting  it 
in  a  warm  place.  Toward  the  last,  squeeze  the  bag  gently  with  the 
hand,  or  use  2  spoons,  but  do  not  be  too  anxious  to  squeeze  out  all 
the  juice,  as  the  more  you  squeeze  it  the  cloudier  you  will  make  the 
jelly.*  Measure  the  juice,  and  the  general  rule  is  to  allow  1  lb. 
sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice,  but  quinces  need  only  f  lb.  sugar  to  each 
lb.  of  juice.  Now  put  the  juice  on  the  stove,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  and 
continue  to  boil  without  being  covered,  until  done — 20  minutes  being 
the  rule  for  most  fruits;  skim  frequently,  as  the  more  perfect  the 
skimming  the  clearer  the  jelly  will  be ;  do  not  boil  it  too  hard.     Have 


*Note. — Squeezing  all  the  juice  out  of  the  bag  makes  the  jelly  cloudy;  if  it  is 
not  squeezed,  much  of  the  contents  of  the  bag  is  often  wasted.  To  prevent  the 
■waste  some  housewives  use  the  juice  which  will  drip  through  withoiit  squeezing, 
and  make  a  clear  jelly  for  table  use.  The  balance  they  squeeze  out,  and  with  it 
they  make  a  second  quality  of  jelly  to  use  for  cake,  puddings,  sauces,  etc.  It  is 
good,  but  not  so  clear. 


492  JELLIES 

the  sugar  ready  heated  (heat  it  in  the  oven  wnile  the  juice  is  boiling, 
stirring  it  frequently  from  the  bottom),  and  now  drop  it  into  the 
boiling  juice,  stirring  constantly.  Let  it  just  come  to  a  boil,  and  put 
at  once  into  the  jelly  glasses;  or  another  plan  is  to  have  a  heated 
pitcher  ready,  with  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  wet  in  liot  water  spread 
over  the  top.  Pour  the  jelly,  a  dipperful  at  a  time,  through  the  strainer 
into  the  pitcher,  and  then  turn  it  from  the  pitcher  into  the  glasses, 
and  set  away  to  cool.  The  jelly  glasses  can  be  standing  ready  in  a  pan 
of  hot  water;  take  them  out,  drain,  and  turn  in  the  jelly. 

In  making  jelly  it  should  boil  neither  too  long  nor  too  short  a 
time;  if  it  boils  too  long  a  time  it  will  be  discolored  and  its  flavor  in- 
jured; if  insufficiently  boiled  it  will  not  keep  well.  The  longer  it 
boils  the  darker  it  becomes.  If  the  juice  is  very  watery,  and  the 
effort  is  made  to  evaporate  the  water  by  long  boiling,  the  gelatiniz- 
ing property  is  destroyed,  and  it  becomes  gummy  and  will  not  jelly. 

To  Test  Jelly — There  are  various  ways:  (1)  Drop  a  little  into  cold 
water  or  on  a  cold  plate,  stirring  it  for  «,  few  seconds,  and  if  it  coagu- 
lates it  is  done;  or  (2)  let  1  or  2  droj)s  fall  from  the  skimmer  into  a 
glass  of  cold  water;  if  it  reaches  the  bottom  a  solid  drop  of  jelly,  with- 
out dissolving  in  the  water,  it  is  done;  or  (3)  diji  the  skimmer  in  and 
out,  holding  it  sideways  over  the  jelly;  if  it  runs  off  in  only  one  place 
it  is  not  cooked  enough;  if  it  runs  around  the  skimmer  and  drips  off 
in  2  or  3  places  in  wide  thick  drops,  it  is  done. 

Hardening  Jelly. — Jelly  which  is  not  quite  as  firm  as  desired  can  be 
shrunk  by  setting  the  glasses  in  the  sun. 

To  prevent  breaking  the  glasses  when  pouring  in  the  hot  jelly,  sev- 
eral plans  are  in  use.  One  plan  is  to  rub  the  glass  over  on  the  out- 
side with  lard  or  butter,  and  then  pour  in  the  first  1  or  2  spoonfuls 
slowly.  Another  is  to  stand  the  glasses  while  being  filled  on  a  folded 
towel  wet  with  cold  water.  Another  plan  is  to  put  a  silver  spoon  in 
the  jar;  but  the  folded  towel  is  the  best  plan. 

Jelly  bags  should  be  made  of  white  flannel,  and  wrung  out  of  hot 
water,  to  prevent  their  absorbing  too  much  of  the  juice.  Tie  the  top 
of  the  bag  closely  when  the  liquor  is  all  in,  to  prevent  the  flavor  from 
evaporating.  A  wooden  frame  on  which  to  tie  the  jelly  bag  while  it 
is  dripping,  is  a  convenience.  Use  the  bags  for  nothing  but  making 
jelly. 

Waste  nothing  when  making  jellies;  the  pulp  can  be  put  up  as 
marmalade  for  tarts  and  cake  fillings. 

To  remove  jelly  from  a  glass,  dip  it  into  hot  water  for  an  instant; 
then  take  it  out,  and  the  jelly  will  come  out  easily  and  whole. 

The  prevention  of  mold,  keeping  jellies,  etc.,  are  discussed  in  the  pre- 
ceding "General  Suggestions"  (which  see). 


JELLIES  493 

APPLE  JELLY. — Use  good,  sour  apples;  slice  them  thin,  seeds, 
skins  and  all;  let  them  simmer  with  only  the  addition  of  a  little  water, 
until  well  cooked  and  soft;  strain,  add  1  lb.  sugar  to  each  pint  of 
juice,  and  finish  as  directed  previously  for  making  jelly.  If  desired, 
a  little  lemon  flavor  can  be  added. 

PLUM  AND  APPLE  JELLY  can  be  made  by  using  1  part 
plum  juice  to  2  parts  sour  apple  juice,  and  finishing  like  other  jelly. 
It  is  very  good. 

CRAB  APPLE  JELLY — Cut  them  into  pieces,  but  do  not  pare 
or  remove  the  seeds;  boil  until  soft  in  a  jar  set  in  hot  water, 
adding  barely  water  enough  to  cover  them ;  mash  them,  drain  off  the 
juice  without  squeezing;  use  1  lb.  sugar  for  each  pint  of  juice,  and 
finish  as  before  directed.  A  little  lemon  juice  can  be  added  for  flavor 
if  desired;  or  a  little  stick  cinnamon  boiled  with  the  juice  and  taken 
out  before  putting  in  the  sugar,  is  good. 

The  pulp  and  juice  which  remain  can  be  made  into  marmalade. 
Add  more  water  and  cook  to  a  pulp;  strain  through  a  sieve  to  remove 
skin,  cores  and  seeds.  Add  brown  sugar  to  the  pulp,  pound  for 
pound.     It  needs  careful  watching  and  stirring  to  prevent  burning. 

DRIED  APPLE  JELLY.— Boil  the  dried  apples  until  tender, 
strain  through  the  jelly  bag,  and  allow  f  lb.  sugar  to  the  pint  of 
juice;  adding  a  little  lemon  juice  will  improve  the  flavor;  then  finish 
like  other  jellies. 

BLACKBERRY  JELLY. — Choose  berries  which  are  under  rather 
than  over  ripe;  the  wild  berries  are  best.  Cook  till  soft,  adding  very 
little  water;  strain  through  the  jelly  bag,  and  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to 
each  pint  of  juice.     Finish  like  other  jellies. 

Raspberry  and  Strawberry  Jellies  are  made  just  the  same  way. 

RED  CURRANT  JELLY.— Choose  good,  ripe  currants;  pick 
them  over,  but  do  not  stem  them;  wash,  drain  and  mash  them  in  a 
porcelain  kettle;  it  will  darken  the  jelly  to  heat  them  now;  use  a 
wooden  masher;  drain  over  night  in  the  jelly  bag,  but  do  not  squeeze 
it.  Use  1  pint  sugar  to  1  pint  juice;  boil  and  finish  as  directed  for 
jellies.  After  putting  ^n  the  hot  sugar,  let  it  boil  till  it  thickens 
when  exposed  to  the  air  on  the  spoon  (which  will  be  in  3  to  5 
minutes)  and  then  put  it  into  the  glasses  immediately.  A  second 
grade  of  jelly,  not  so  clear,  can  be  made  by  squeezing  the  remaining 
juice  out  of  the  currants,  and  finishing  it  like  jelly. 

Various  Jellies. — A  very  nice  jelly  is  made  by  using  red  antl  white 
eurrants  in  equal  parts.     A  raspberry  and  curraiit  jolly  can  be  made 


494 


JELLIES 


by  using  1  X3art  red  currants  and  2  parts  red  raspberries.  It  is  very- 
fine.  A  icild  cherry  and  currant  jelly  can  be  made  by  stewing  2 
parts  wild  cherries  (stones  and  all)  and  1  part  red  currants. 

White  currant  jelly  can  also  be  made  like  other  currant  jellies. 

CHERRY   JELLY.— Pick  the    fruit   (Morellos  are   best)    when 
not  quite  ripe;  wash  and  put  on  the  stove  in  cold  water  with  the  pits 
in;  let  it  simmer  (not  boil)  until  the  cherries  are  white  and  tender; 
strain    through    the  jelly    bag, 
allow    1    pint   sugar   to   2  pints 
juice,    and    cook    briskly   until 
done.      Cooks  sometimes  add  \ 
part   of   red  currant   juice,    but 
cherry  jelly  can  be  made  without 
it.      Leave  the  pits  in  because  a 
large  part  of  the  ^Dectose  is  in 
the  pits. 

CRANBERRY   JELLY. 

Pick  over  the  cranberries  care- 
fully, and  put  2  cups  water  in  2 
quarts  of  cranberries;  let  boil, 
stirring  occasionally,  until  soft 
enough  to  mash;  strain,  and  fin-  ceanberby. 

ish  like  other  jellies.    Use  1  lb.  of  sugar  to  1  pint  of  juice. 

The  Cbanbeeey  is  nearly  related  to  the  bilberry.  The  species  are  all  natives  of 
cold  countries,  and  grow  well  on  swampy  land.  The  fruit  is  too  acid  to  be  eaten 
raw,  but  has  a  very  pleasant  taste  when  cooked.  The  juice  contains  malic  and 
citric  acid. 

QUAVA  JELLY — Take  ripe  guavas, 
pare,  quarter,  and  drop  the  sections  into 
cold  water.  Simmer  them  till  tender  in 
water  enough  to  nearly  cover  them; 
strain,  hanging  the  bags  up  to  drain  all 
night,  but  do  not  squeeze  them;  boil  the 
juice  1  hour,  uncovered,  skim,  and  add 
white  sugar,  using  1  scant  pint  to  each 
pint  of  juice.  Let  simmer  till  the  jelly 
is  clear,  add  lemon  or  lime  juice  to  taste, 
and  let  simmer  ^  hour  more,  skimming 
frequently.  Pour  into  jars  and  seaJ 
when  cold.  Guava  jelly  can  be  made 
from  any  species  of  guava,  and  it  is 
known  the  world  over  as  one  of  the  most  delicious  of  all  conserves. 


i.    MEXICAN  GUAV» 

2.    WEST  INDIAN  GUAVt 


JELLIES 


495 


GOOSEBERRY  JELLY.— Take  full-grown,  but  not  quite  ripe 
gooseberries;  cover  with  water  and  boil  until  they  are  soft;  strain  the 
juice,  and  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice;  finish  like  other 
jelly. 

GRAPE  JELLY.— Isabella,  Concord  or  Clinton  grapes  are  best 
to  use;  have  them  freshly  picked,  and  finish  as  directed  for  other 
jellies,  using  1  lb.  of  sugar  to  1  pint  of  juice. 

GREEN  GRAPE  JELLY — Use  green  grapes;  wash,  stem,  and 
cook  till  soft  with  a  very  little  water;  mash  with  a  wooden  pestle, 
strain  through  the  jelly  bag,  and  allow  1^  lbs.  sugar  to  each  pint  of 
juice.  Finish  like  other  jelly.  It  makes  the  nicest  jelly  there  is  to 
go  with  poultry  and  game,  and  is  superior  to  ripe  grape  jelly, 

MANGO  JELLY. — Make  as  directed  for  guava 
jelly,  only  peel  the  mangoes,  stone  them,  and 
throw  them,  before  being  cooked,  into  a  very  weak 
solution  of  lime  or  lemon  juice. 

PEACH  JELLY — Use  1  part  very  sour  apple 
juice  to  2  parts  peach  juice,  and  make  like  other 
jellies.  Equal  parts  are  sometimes  used.  A  little 
lemon  juice  is  sometimes  added. 

Pear  Jelly  can  be  made  the  same  as  peach  jelly. 

PLUM  JELLY — Choose  the  common  blue 
plums,  wash  them,  cook  until  soft  in  a  porcelain 
kettle,  adding  Icup  water  to  each  2  quarts  plums; 
then  drain  through  the  jelly  bag,  and  finish  like 
other  jellies. 

Damson  Jelly  is  made  the  same  way. 

The  Plum  has  been  cultivated  from  ancient  times,  and 
the  lirst  fine  varieties  were  probably  introduced  into  Europe 
from  the  East,  the  Damson  or  Damascene  taking  its  name 
from  Damascus.  When  perfectly  ripe  the  best  varieties  are 
wholesome.      Some  varieties  are  too  astringent,  though  by  jJA.uoui^a. 

baking  they  loose  much  of  their  bad  qualities,  and  are  used 

in  tarts  and  preserves,  but  they  should  be  used  with  moderation.  If  eaten  unripe, 
they  are  almost  sure  to  cause  diarrhea.  They  are  not  very  rich  in  sugar,  but 
contain  much  pectose  or  vegetable  jelly,  which  gives  them  their  gelatinizing 
quality. 

QUINCE  JELLY. — Cut  the  quinces  into  small  pieces,  and  put 
them,  skin,  seeds  and  all,  into  a  preserving  kettle  (a  large  part  of  the 
pectose  is  found  in  the  seeds);  cover  with  water  and  boil  till  soft; 
mash,  and  drain  in  the  jelly  bag  over  night;  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  each 
pint  of  juice,  and  boil  to  the  jelly  degree.  The  pulp  of  tlie  quinces, 
left  after  making  the  jelly,  can  be  rubbed  through  a  fine  colander. 


496  MARMALADES 

and,  using  as  much  sugar  as  pulp,  boil  them  together  for  marmalade. 
Another  plan  is  to  use  the  best  portions  of  the  fruit  for  canning  or 
preserves,  and  make  jelly  with  the  hard  parts,  cores  and  skin,  and 
this  works  well.  Sour  apple  juice  is  sometimes  mixed  with  quince 
juice. 

RHUBARB  JELLY — Cut  the  rhubarb  into  pieces  about  1  inch 
long,  but  do  not  peel  it;  cook  it  to  a  soft  pulp  in  water  enough  to 
cover  it;  strain  through  the  jelly  bag,  and  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  each 
pint  of  juice;  finish  like  other  jelly.  Apple  and  rhubarb  mixed 
together,  and  finished  like  other  jellies,  is  very  nice;  flavor  it  with 
lemon. 

WILD  PLUM  JELLY.— Gather  wild  plums  just  before  they 
ripen;  use  7  pints  of  water  to  5  pints  of  plums,  and  boil  until  they 
fall  to  pieces;  then  strain  through  the  jelly  bag;  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to 
each  pint  of  juice,  and  boil  rapidly  to  the  jelly  degree.  They  make 
very  nice  jelly.  Some  cooks  boil  the  plums  with  water  until  they 
burst,  and  then  throw  it  away  because  of  its  bitterness;  then  boil  the 
plums  again  in  water  to  cover  them  until  they  fall  to  pieces;  then 
finish  as  above.  The  pulj)  remaining  can  be  made  into  a  good 
marmalade  by  using  the  pulp  and  sugar  pound  for  pound. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI  JELLY — Use  equal  quantities  of  red  currants, 
red  raspberries,  strawberries  and  morello  cherries;  stone  the  latter 
carefully  saving  all  the  juice;  mix  together  all  the  fruit  and  squeeze 
it  well;  after  straining  through  the  jelly  bag,  allow  2  lbs.  sugar  to 
each  pint  of  juice,  and  finish  like  other  jelly. 


MARMALADES. 

These  are  made  from  the  pulp  of  fruit  boiled  with  sugar.  If 
marmalade  is  made  at  the  same  time  with  jelly,  the  pulp  left  from 
the  jelly  can  be  used  and  waste  prevented.  Rub  the  pulp  through  a 
sieve,  and  for  acid  fruits  the  rule  is  to  allow  equal  weights  of  sugar 
and  pulp;  sweet  fruits  need  a  little  less.  If  too  much  sugar  is  used 
the  sides  and  tops  of  the  vessels  containing  the  marmalade  will  be 
covered  with  a  coating  of  sugar,  and  it  will  candy  or  crystallize; 
fermentation  will  take  place  if  too  little  sugar  is  used,  or  the  boiling 
is  insufficient.  The  rule  is  to  boil  slowly  -^  to  |  hour,  with  frequent 
stirring  to  prevent  burning. 

To  Test  Both  Marmalade  and  Jam  let  a  spoon  of  it  cool  on  a  plate,- 
it  will  be  done  if  it  looks  glittering  and  dry,  and  neither  moisture  nor 
juice  collects  on  it. 


MARMALADES 


497 


If  the  sugar  is  not  added  until  the  fruit  is  mashed  and  cooked, 
less  boiling  will  be  needed,  and  the  marmalade  will  be  better  and 
smoother.  When  done,  put  it  in  glasses  as  explained  in  the  pro- 
ceeding "  General  Suggestions."     Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

The  term  marmalade  is  derived  from  the  Portuguese  marmelo, 
meaning  a  quince,  to  which  it  was  first  applied;  but  it  has  come  to 
be  applied   to   similar   preparations   of  any  fruit     Marmalades  are 
very  wholesome,  and  serve  to  stimulate 
the  appetite, 

GRAPE  MARMALADE.— Pulp  the 

grapes,  but  put  the  skins  and  pulp 
together  into  the  preserving  kettle  and 
let  boil.  When  the  skins  are  tender 
let  cool  until  you  can  work  the  mass 
through  a  fine  colander.  Wash  the 
kettle  and  return  the  strained  grapes, 
set  over  the  fire,  and  add  the  same 
measure  of  sugar  as  there  is  of  the  grape. 
Let  boil  5  minutes,  and  put  hot  into 
jelly  tumblers.  If  the  grapes  are  not 
quite  ripe  the  marmalade  will  be  more 
firm. 

ORANGE       MARMALADE Pare 

the  yellow  rind  carefully  off  the  oranges;  remove  the  thick  white 
rind  and  squeeze  the  pulp  through  a  sieve;  add  |  cup  of  water 
to  4  lbs.  fruit,  and  set  on  to  boil;  add  the  yellow  parings  of  the  rind, 
cut  into  pieces,  and  boil  ^  hour,  or  until  the  rind  is  soft;  the  juice, 
pul^D  and  yellow  peel  of  a  lemon  can  be  added  if  liked;  add  1  lb.  sugar 
to  1  lb.  pulp,  boil  a  few  minutes  and  put  into  jelly  glasses. 

Rhubarb  can  be  added  instead  of  the  lemon  if  desired;  use  1  quai't 
of  sliced  rhubarb  for  6  oranges  and  boil  with  them.  It  makes  a  fine 
combination  and  gives  a  variety. 

PEACH  MARMALADE — Choose  fine,  ripe  peaches;  pare,  stone 
and  cut  them  up;  add  a  very  little  water  and  cook  in  the  farina 
boiler  until  reduced  to  a  pulp;  pass  through  a  colander  and  allow  | 
lb.  sugar  to  each  lb.  of  pulp;  put  it  on  the  stove  and  boil  until  it 
will  jelly,  or  until  it  will  drop  from  the  spoon  in  clots.  Stir  it  from 
the  bottom  with  a  wooden  spoon  all  the  time  it  is  on  the  fire  to  pre- 
vent burning.     When  done,  seal  in  jars. 

Apricots,  Apples,  Pears,  Quinces,  and  other  Fruits  can  be  prepared  in 

the  same  way. 
'S2 


GONOOBD    GEAPES. 


498  MAKMALADES 

PLUM  MARMALADE.— Stone  the  plums,  and  put  in  the  ket- 
tle with  a  very  little  water,  boil  till  the  fruit  softens,  and  then  mash 
to  a  pulp  with  a  wooden  pestle;  do  not  take  it  from  the  stove,  but 
add  1  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  of  pulp,  and  boil  15  or  20  minutes  longer; 
then  put  it  in  jars. 

QUINCE  MARMALADE.— Pare,  core  and  slice  the  quinces;  put 
the  seeds,  cores  and  skins  in  the  kettle,  add  barely  enough  water  to 
cover  them,  and  boil  sloivly  ^  hour;  strain  through  cloth,  and  when 
nearly  cold  add  it  to  the  quinces  in  the  farina  boiler  and  boil  until 
it  is  reduced  to  a  smooth  paste,  mashing  and  stirring  the  quinces 
with  a  wooden  spoon;  if  the  flavor  is  desired  the  juice  of  2  oranges 
can  be  added  to  each  3  lbs  of  pulp;  now  add  f  lb.  sugar  to  each 
pound  of  fruit,  and  boil  10  minutes  longer,  stirring  continually. 
Then  put  in  jars. 

No.  2 — Quinces  which  are  not  good  enough  to  be  utilized  in 
other  ways  can  be  used;  wash,  core,  but  do  not 
pare  them,  and  cut  into  pieces;  add  1  teacup 
of  water  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  and  boil  slowly, 
mashing  and  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  until 
soft;  add  |  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  pulp;  boil  them  to- 
gether for  5  or  10  minutes,  strain  through  a 
colander  and  jjut  in  jelly  glasses. 

Sour  Apples  or  Crab  Apples  can  be  put  up  in  like 
manner. 

The  Quince  is  a  native  of  India,  whence  it  was  intro- 
duced  to    Greece.     The    ancients    preserved    it    in    honey,  or  sweet  wine  reduced 
^   by  boiling.      It  makes  a  fine  marmalade  and  a  little   added   to    apple   pie    ioi- 
proves  the  flavor. 

RASPBERRY  MARMALADE.— Either  use  the  raspberries  alone, 
or  add  1  cup  of  red  currant  juice  to  each  2  lbs.  fruit;  boil  30  minutes, 
mashing  and  stirring  well  with  a  wooden  spoon;  add  |  lb.  sugar  to 
every  pound  of  fruit,  and  cook  20  minutes  more. 

Blackberry  Marmalade  can  be  made  the  same  way,  but  without 
any  currant  juice. 

RHUBARB  MARMALADE— Cut  the  rhubarb  into  pieces  1  or 
2  inches  long;  to  each  1^  lbs.  of  rhubarb  allow  1  lb.  sugar,  -^  of  a 
lemon  peel  cut  thin,  and  ^  oz.  of  bitter  almonds  blanched  and 
divided.     Boil  all  well  together  and  put  up  like  other  marmalades. 

STRAWBERRY  MARMALADE  OR  JAM.  -Allow  5  lbs.  sugar 
and  1  lb.  currants  to  6  lbs.  strawberries;  mash  the  currants  in  the 
preserving  pan  with  1  cup  water,  put  it  on  the  stove  and  boil;   then 


FRUIT  CHEESES 


499 


add  the  strawberries  (which  should  be  picked  over),  then  press  and 
rub  them  into  an  earthenware  pan  through  a  fine  sieve.  Let  the 
sugar  boil  to  the  consistency  of  thick  molasses,  add  the  fruit  pulp, 
and  boil  briskly,  with  constant  stirring,  for  20  minutes.  Skim  it, 
and  put  into  jars. 

TOMATO  MARMALADE.— First  scald,  peel  and  slice  the 
tomatoes;  allow  2  lbs.  sugar  to  1  lb.  tomatoes,  and  boil  them  down 
together  until  well  thickened;  then  add  1  tablespoon  powdered  gin- 
ger, and  the  juice  and  peel  of  2  lemons,  for  every  3  lbs.  of  tomatoes. 
Boil  about  3  hours,  skimming  off  the  froth  that  rises;  wl c-n  very 
thick  put  in  jars. 

VEGETABLE    MARROW    MARMALADE — 

Pare  and  core  the  marrow,  cut  in  thin  slices,  add 
12  oz.  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  marrow  and  let 
stand  all  night;  then  bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  con- 
stantly, and  cook  till  almost  soft;  turn  into  a  bowl 
and  when  cold  add  2  good  tablespoons  of  orange 
or  lemon  marmalade  for  every  pound  of  marrow 
used;  put  back  on  stove,  stir  to  the  boil  and  sim- 
mer until  it  sets. 


VEGETABLE    MAEEOW 


FRUIT  CHEESES. 

Fruit  cheeses  are  somewhat  like  marmalades,  and  they  are  gen- 
erally used  for  desserts.  Stone  fruits,  like  plums,  quinces,  etc.,  make 
the  best.  The  method  is  usually  to  boil  the  fruit  until  it  is  soft 
enough  to  pass  through  a  sieve,  and  then  the  pulp  is  boiled  with 
sugar  until  it  will  solidify  when  cold.  Cherries  are  often  used,  and 
jerries  sometimes. 


APRICOT     CHEESE.— Wipe     apricots,  AW^%^\ 

cut  them  into  pieces,  and  take  equal  quanti- 
ties by  weight  of  apricots  and  sugar;  wipe 
the  inside  of  the  preserving  pan  with  fine 
salad  oil,  put  in  the  fruit,  and  boil  it  to  a 
pulp,  stirring  all  the  time:  add  the  sugar, 
continue  to  stir,  and  boil  sharply  till  it  is  a 
golden  brown;  it  will  cling  to  the  spoon 
when  done,  and  leave  the  pan  clear.     Pour  Aiim  (n> 

it  into  small   molds   and   cover.      It   takes 
about  6  hours  to  make.     Some  people  blanch  and  shred  the 
and  add  them. 


kernels. 


500  FRUIT  PASTES 

The  Apbioot  is  a  native  of  Armenia,  and  belongs  to  the  same  species  as  the 
plum.  Its  delicious  fruit  much  resembles  the  peach.  It  only  keeps  a  short  time, 
and  is  either  eateu  fresh  or  is  made  into  preserves  or  jelly.  It  has  sometimes  been 
condemned  for  its  laxative  qualities,  but  this  may  have  been  caused  by  eating  the 
fruit  when  unripe,  or  in  too  great  quantities.  Delicate  persons  should  use  a  lib- 
eral quantity  of  powdered  sugar  with  them  if  they  eat  them  uncooked.  The  ker- 
nels are  sometimes  used  for  the  same  purposes  as  almonds.  Apricots  contain 
rather  less  water,  and  more  sugar  and  pectine  than  peaches. 

ALMACK  CHEESE — Split  4  doz.  plums,  and  take  out  the  stones; 
pare,  core,  and  slice  2  doz.  pears  and  2  doz.  apples;  put  the  whole  in 
layers  into  a  stone  jar,  and  put  them  into  a  cool  oven;  when  suffi- 
ciently tender  press  them  through  a  coarse  sieve  into  a  preserving 
pan,  and  stir  in  1  lb.  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Stir  them 
over  a  moderate  fire  until  very  firm.  Cut  into  slices  after  it  has  be- 
come sufficiently  cool. 

QUINCE  CHEESE. —This  is  simply  marmalade  which  has  been 
boiled  down  very  thick,  and  put  into  little  jars.  It  will  be  as  solid 
as  cheese  when  turned  out,  and  it  can  be  served  for  tea  or  luncheon, 
cut  into  slices  like  cheese. 

PLUM  CHEESE — Add  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning,  and 
boil  the  i^lums;  now  mash  them,  strain,  and  add  ^  lb.  good  brown 
sugar  to  1  lb.  plums;  boil  down  until  thick,  with  continual  stirring, 
and  i)ut  in  small  jars.  It  will  turn  out  firm  as  cheese,  and  can  be 
served  for  tea  or  luncheon  cut  in  slices. 


FRUIT  PASTES. 

These  are  a  kind  of  marmalade,  consisting  of  the  i)ulp  of  fruits, 
first  evaporated  to  a  proper  consistency,  and  then  boiled  with  sugar. 
The  mixture  is  then  poured  into  a  mold,  or  spread  on  sheets  of  tin, 
and  afterwards  dried  in  the  oven  or  on  the  stove  until  it  assumes  the 
form  of  a  paste.  Strips  may  be  cut  from  one  of  these  sheets  and 
formed  into  any  shajDC  desired.  Use  only  fine  white  sugar  for  these 
pastes.  Use  a  wooden  spoon  to  stir  them  with,  and  watch  them  care- 
fully, as,  if  they  burn  in  cooking  it  will  spoil  them.  The  cakes  can 
be  cut  up  and  kept  in  tin  or  paper  boxes  with  layers  of  paper  be- 
tween; they  are  fine  with  desserts. 

APRICOT  PASTE — Use  ripe  apricots;  put  them  in  a  preserving 
pan  with  a  little  sugar,  and  place  them  on  the  side  of  the  range  to  re- 
duce them  to  a  paste;  rub  them  through  a  hair  sieve,  allow  ^  lb. 
sugar  to  1  lb,  pulp,  and  boil  it  10  minutes;  then  finish  like  apple 
paste. 


APPLE  AND  BLOSSOM. 


FRUIT  PASTES  501 

APPLE  PASTE — Choose  sound  ripe  apples, 
peel,  core  tliem,  and  cook  in  a  little  water  till  quite 
soft;  rub  them  through  a  hair  sieve,  using  a  wooden 
spoon;  weigh  the  pulp  and  put  it  in  the  preserving 
pan,  with  the  same  weight  of  sugar,  and  boil  20 
minutes;  remove  it,  spread  out  thin  on  plates  or  in 
molds,  and  dry  in  a  cool  oven  or  on  a  cool  stove.  If 
desired  it  can  be  colored  with  some  of  the  vegetable 
colors  elsewhere  given. 

The  Apple  belongs  to  the  rose  order.  The  cultivated 
varieties  have  sprung  from  the  wild  apple  or  crab.  This  de- 
lightful fruit  is  made  very  wholesome  by  baking  or  boiling. 
The  acid  is  mainly  malic.  The  hard,  acid  kinds  are  unwhole- 
some if  eaten  raw,  but  by  cooking  a  great  deal  of  their  acid 
is  decomposed  and  converted  into  sugar.  A  large  part  of  its  acid  is  turned  to 
sugar  as  the  fruit  ripens,  or  even  after  it  is  gathered,  by  the  process  of  maturation. 
When  apples  decay,  the  sugar  is  changed  to  a  bitter  principle,  and  the  gum  be- 
comes moldy  and  offensive.  Old  cheese  has  a  remarkable  effect  in  meliorating  the 
effects  of  the  apple  when  eaten  with  it,  probably  from  the  volatile  alkali  or  ammo- 
nia of  the  cheese  neutralizing  the  acid. 

CURRANT  PASTE — Take  red  or  white  currants,  pick  them 
over  carefully,  rub  through  a  sieve,  and  put  the  mashed  fruit  in  a 
pan  on  the  fire,  stirring  it  until  it  forms  a  paste;  allow  1^  lbs.  sugar 
for  1  lb.  pulp,  mix  them  together,  and  boil  20  minutes.  Finish  like 
other  paste. 

ORANGE  PASTE. — Press  the  juice  out  of  5  Seville  oranges, 
and  boil  them  until  the  rinds  are  very  soft  indeed;  with  a  thin 
wooden  or  silver  spoon  scoop  out  all  the  pulp,  and  pound  the  rinds  as 
fine  as  possible  in  a  mortar  with  |-  the  extracted  juice.  Rub  it  all 
through  a  hair  sieve,  and  simmer  on  the  fire  until  it  becomes  like 
marmalade.  Empty  it  out,  weigh  it,  and  allow  2  lbs.  sugar  for  1  lb. 
pulp;  boil  it  10  minutes,  and  spread  out  and  dry  like  apple  paste. 

Lemon  Paste  can  be  made  the  same  way,  but  do  not  use  any  of  the 
juice. 

PEACH  PASTE — Out  the  peaches  into  small  pieces,  and  cook, 
with  barely  enough  water  to  cover  them,  until  reduced  to  a  pulp; 
allow  ^  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  pulp,  and  boil  20  minutes;  finish  like  other 
paste. 

PLUM  PASTE — Any  kind  of  preserving  plums  M-ill  do;  stone 
them  and  boil,  with  very  little  water,  to  a  jam;  rub  through  a  hair 
sieve,  put  on  the  stove,  and  reduce  to  a  paste;  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  1 
lb.  pulp,  £lnd  cook  20  minutes;  finish  like  other  paste. 

RASPBERRY  PASTE — Take  2  quarts  of  ripe  red  raspberries, 
put  them  in  an  eathern  jar  and  place  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water; 


502  JAMS 

boil  until  the  juice  is  well  separated,  then  pulp  them  through  a  fine 
colander.  Mix  with  the  fruit  an  equal  weight  of  sugar,  put  it  in  a 
sauce=pan,  and  cook  until  it  is  a  firm  paste — stirring  constantly  to 
prevent  burning;  spread  on  plates  to  nearly  dry  in  the  oven,*  then  cut 
it  in  squares,  cover  both  sides  well  with  pulverized  sugar,  and  pack 
in  paper  boxes  with  layers  of  white  paper  between. 
Strawberry  Paste  can  be  made  the  same  way. 


JAMS. 

These  are  made  with  large  fruit  cut  into  small  pieces,  or  with 
whole  small  fruits.  In  making  common  jams  the  fruit  should  be 
well  boiled  before  the  sugar  is  added,  and  care  should  be  taken  that 
it  is  not  so  much  thickened  that  the  sugar  will  not  easily  dissolve. 
The  old  rule  was  equal  amounts  of  fruit  and  sugar,  but  acid  fruits  re- 
quire more  sugar  than  those  which  are  sweet.  If  they  burn  at  all  in 
cooking  the  flavor  is  spoiled;  to  prevent  this  close  attention  is  needed 
and  constant  stirring.  Jam  will  not  keep  well  unless  sufficiently 
boiled,  and  enough  sugar  is  used,  but  do  not  use  too  much  sugar. 

As  jams  and  preserves  made  from  stone  fruits  are  apt  to  ferment, 
care  should  be  taken  to  get  rid  of  the  moisture,  and  only  enough 
water  added  in  cooking  to  simply  prevent  burning. 

In  the  "General  Suggestions"  previously  given  we  explain  about 
putting  jams  into  glasses  or  jars  when  done.  The  hardening 
of  fruit  is  discussed  under  "Preserves,"  but  mashing  also  prevents 
hardening. 

APPLE  JAM — Pare,  core  and  slice  the  apples;  boil  them  till 
soft,  add  I  lb.  sugar  for  1  lb.  fruit,  and  cook  till  done.  A  fine  flavor 
will  be  imparted  by  tying  in  muslin  a  little  lemon  peel,  ginger  and 
cloves  and  boiling  it  with  the  fruit;  take  it  out  when  the  jam  is  done. 

APPLE  GINGER.  (Imitation  of  Preserved  Ginger).— Boil  to  a 
syrup  3  oz.  of  ginger,  3  lbs.  of  sugar,  the  juice  and  |  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  and  1^  pints  of  water;  take  out  the  rind  and  add  3  lbs.  of  ap- 
ples pared,  cored,  and  cut  into  irregular  strips  to  imitate  ginger; 
boil  50  or  60  minutes.  They  should  not  break  and  should  be  soft 
and  clear;  there  will  be  a  good  supply  of  syrup.  Put  in  jars  when 
cold. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM— Take  5  lbs.  of  fruit,  mash  it,  and  boil 
10  minutes;  then  add  7  lbs.  sugar,  and  boil  20  minutes,  stirring  to 
keep  from  burning.     Put  into  the  glasses  hot;  tie  up  when  cold 


JAMS  508 

CHERRY  JAM. — Before  stoning  the  cherries,  weigh  them,  and 
to  1  lb,  cherries  allow  -|  lb,  sugar;  then  stone  them  and  boil  until  the 
juice  is  nearly  evaporated,  stirring  constantly;  then  add  the  sugar 
and  add  also  1  pint  of  red  currant  juice  for  each  6  lbs.  of  cherries 
used,  and  add  also  1  lb.  sugar  for  each  pint  of  currant  juice  used; 
then  finish  like  other  jams. 

RED  CURRANT  JAM — Pick  over  the  currants  carefully,  and 
allow  I  lb.  sugar  to  each  pound  fruit;  let  them  simmer  in  the  farina 
boiler  until  soft;  then  set  aside  until  next  morning,  and  cook  them 
gently  in  a  porcelain  kettle  25  minutes;  then  put  into  glasses. 

White  Currant  and  Barberry  Jam  can  be  made  the  same  way,  but  for 
barberries  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb,  berries. 

GOOSEBERRY  JAM.— Pick  the  gooseberries  just  as  they  begin 
to  turn;  stem,  wash  and  weigh  them;  to  4  lbs.  of  fruit  add  |-  teacup 
of  water,  boil  until  soft,  then  add  4  lbs  sugar,  and  boil  until  clear. 
The  jam  will  be  clear  and  amber=colored  if  the  fruit  is  picked  at  the 
right  stage,  and  much  nicer  if  it  is  not  picked  until  fully  ripe. 

GRAPE  JAM. — Allow  f  lb,  sugar. to  1  lb,  grapes;  squeeze  the. 
pulp  from  the  skin;  boil  the  pulp  a  few  minutes  and  remove  the 
seeds  by  passing  through  a  sieve;  then  add  the  skins  and  sugar, 
boil  until  it  thickens,  and  put  up  like  other  jam. 

Green  Grape  Jam  is  made  the  same  way, 

ORANGE  JAM. — Sweet  oranges  are  best;  remove  the  rind 
and  then  the  seeds  by  passing  it  through  a  colander  or  sieve;  to  1  lb. 
pulp  and  juice  allow  1  lb.  sugar;  boil  10  minutes,  add  the  sugar  and 
cook  till  done;  put  u^d  like  other  jams. 

PINEAPPLE  JAM. — Pare  it,  cut  in  small  jjieces,  and  cook  in 
just  enough  water  to  cover  until  tender.  Allow  |  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb. 
fruit;  make  the  sugar  into  a  syrup,  add  the  pineapple  and  boil  10 
minutes;  then  put  up  like  other  jams. 

Pineapple  Parings. — After  the  fruit  has  been  trimmed  for  making 
jams,  etc.,  wash  the  jDeel  in  warm  water,  dry  it,  put  it  in  a  sauceqaan, 
add  cold  water  to  cover,  and  simmer  h  hour,  or  so;  then  strain  the 
liquid,  boil  it  with  sugar,  and  it.can  be  served  with  puddings,  etc.;  or 
if  essence  of  pineaxjple  is  added  when  cold  it  will  serve  for  ices 
sweet  sauces  for  puddings  and  the  like. 

PLUM  JAM.— Allow  £-  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit  before  it  is  stoned; 
then  take  out  the  stones  and  stew  the  fruit  in  a  little  water  till  soft; 
pass  it  through  a  coarse  sieve,  add  the  sugar,  and  cook  till  done.  Put 
up  like  other  jam. 


504  JAMS 

QUINCE  JAM. — Cook  any  desired  amount  of  quinces  until 
soft,  in  as  little  water  as  possible  without  burning;  pour  off  the 
water  and  rub  the  fruit  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  smooth;  add  10 
oz.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit,  let  it  boil  20  minutes,  and  remove  it  from  the 
fire,  put  up  like  other  jams. 

RASPBERRY  JAM — Mash  the  berries,  and  treat  as  directed 
for  strawberries.  If  2  parts  raspberries  and  1  part  red  currants 
are  mixed  it  makes  a  fine  jam,  or  add  a  little  currant  juice. 

RHUBARB  JAM — Allow  1  lb.  sugar  for  1  lb.  rhubarb;  cut  up 
the  fruit  into  small  pieces,  put  on  the  sugar,  and  let  it  stand  several 
hours,  or  until  next  morning;  then  take  out  the  fruit,  and  boil  the 
syrup  until  it  thickens;  then  put  in  the  fruit  and  let  it  simmer 
gently  until  done,  stirring  it  to  prevent  its  burning;  then  put  in 
glasses. 

STRAWBERRY  JAM — Hull  the  berries,  put  them  over  the 
fire,  and  boil  gently  ^  hour,  keeping  them  constantly  stirred;  allow  | 
lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit;  remove  the  berries  from  the  fire,  add  the 
sugar,  and  then  boil  them  again  ^  hour.  Then  put  in  jars  as  before 
directed. 

The  Strawbebey  was  known  to  the  ancient  Greeks  and  Romans,  and  is  indi- 
genous in  all  temperate  climates.  It  does  not  contain 
mtich  nutritive  matter,  but  is  very  wholesome.  The  seed» 
like  pericarps  are  not  easy  of  digestion  and  sometimes 
cause  intestinal  irritation  en  which  account  some  j^hysi- 
cians  have  recommended  passing  them  through  muslin 
before  being  eaten.  They  have  more  water  in  their  com- 
position than  gooseberries  or  currants,  and  they  are 
cooling,  laxative,  and  slighly  diuretic.  Some  epicures 
grate  the  zest  of  an  orange  over  them,  thinking  it 
imjiroves  the  taste,  especially  when  a  little  sugar  is  added 
also. 

TOMATO  JAM — Use  equal  weights  of 
sugar  and  tomatoes;  peel  and  slice  them,  add 
the   sugar  and   let  simmer  gently  until  done, 

which  should  be  in  about  an  hour.  A  pleasant  flavor  may  be  im- 
parted by  tying  lemon  peel  and  ginger  in  a  muslin  bag,  and  letting 
it  cook  with  the  fruit,  lifting  it  out  when  that  is  cooked. 

VEGETABLE  MARROW  JAM.— Peel  and  core  6  lbs.  of  medium 
sized  vegetable  marrows  cut  into  strips  about  2  inches  long;  cover 
it  with  6  lbs.  of  sugar  and  let  stand  all  night;  then  add  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  4  lemons  and  1  oz.  of  bruised  ginger  and  boil  1^  hours, 
skimming  well.  A  pinch  of  cayenne  is  considered  an  improvement 
by  some  cooks. 


PEESERVES  505 

PRESERVES. 

The  fruit  used  for  preserves  should  be  perfectly  sound,  fresh 
and  ri^De,  and  use  good  sugar.  If  you  would  have  good  preserves 
work  carefully.     A  very  large  amount  is  less  easily  handled  than  less. 

The  old  rule  of  pound  for  pound  of  sugar  and  fruit  is  hardly 
reliable,  because  fruits  differ  so  much  in  sweetness.  If  too  much 
sugar  is  used  the  fruit  may  be  unpleasantly  sweet,  and  very  little  of 
the  fruit  jQavor  left. 

Cooking  the  Fruit. — Large  fruits  should  cook  until  a  broom  straw 
will  readily  pierce  them.  To  avoid  burning,  boil  them  gently.  They 
must  be  soft  enough  to  be  readily  penetrated  by  the  sugar  ( as  that  is 
what  preserves  them)  but  that  is  all.  Over  boiling  is  to  be  avoided, 
and  small  fruit  especially,  like  strawberries  and  raspberries,  are 
spoiled  if  much  cooked.  The  object  aimed  at  is  to  have  the  sugar 
thoroughly  permeate  the  fruit  enough  to  preserve  it,  but  without 
injuring  its  shape  more  than  necessary.  Fruit  is  darkened  in  color 
and  its  flavor  injured  by  long  boiling.  Small  fruits  and  berries 
should  be  taken  out  of  the  syruj),  when  done,  with  a  small  strainer, 
as  a  cup  will  not  separate  the  syrup  from  them. 

When  the  fruit  has  simmered  in  the  syrup  until  done  quite 
through,  it  may  be  taken  out  with  a  skimmer  and  set  on  dishes  to 
cool;  then  boil  up  the  syrup  until  it  begins  to  jelly,  put  back  the 
fruit,  boil  it  up  once,  and  then  put  it  into  jars.  Another  way  is  to 
put  the  fruit  directly  into  jars  instead  of  on  dishes  to  cool;  then  boil 
the  syrup  and  pour  it  over,  and  tie  up  as  directed  in  the  "  General 
Suggestions "  at  the  beginning  of  this  section.  Either  method 
works  well. 

Hardening  Fruit. — Those  fruits  like  strawberries,  tomatoes,  peach- 
es, apples,  etc.,  which  are  liable  in  cooking  to  become  too  soft,  can  be 
allowed  to  stand  a  few  hours  with  sugar  on  them,  or  pour  on  hot 
syrup;  this  hardens  them  by  extracting  the  juice.  There  are  some 
fruits  like  citrons,  quinces,  pineapples,  etc.,  which  harden  if  i3ut  into 
strong  syrup  at  first;  to  avoid  this  they  can  be  cooked  first  in  water 
or  weak  syrup  until  tender,  and  then  the  balance  of  the  sugar  added. 

Canned  Fruit  can  be  used  in  making  preserves,  and  then  less 
sugar  is  needed.  '  Adding  a  few  slices  of  lemon  or  orange  will 
improve  the  flavor. 

Keeping  Preserves. — Preserves  keep  better  in  glass  than  in  earth- 
enware vessels,  but  glass  should  be  wrai3i)ed  in  paper  to  keep  the 
light  from  bleaching  the  fruit;  keep  in  a  cool,  dark,  dry  place. 


506 


PRESERVES 


To  Clarify  and  Prepare  Syrup. — A  good  syrup  can  be  made  with  2 
pints  granulated  or  loaf  sugar,  and  2  cups  water;  put  them  in  a 
porcelain  kettle,  and  stir  in  the  white  of  1  egg  beaten  light  but  not 
dry;  bring  it  slowly  to  a  boil,  stirring  frequently,  and  then  at  once 
move  to  the  back  of  the  range,  cover  it,  and  let  it  simmer  gently,  not 
boil  rapidly,  for  ^  hour;  then  take  off  the  cover  and  remove  the  cake 
of  thick  white  scum  appearing  on  top.  The  syrup  will  be  clear  and 
ready  for  use.  White  of  egg,  being  albumen,  coagulates  at  160°, 
and  as  it  rises  to  the  surface  it  acts  like  a  strainer,  carrying  the 
impurities  with  it;  hard  boiling  breaks  it  into  small  grains,  and  it 
does  not  strain  well.  Small  fruits,  like  strawberries,  raspberries, 
currants,  etc.,  put  into  this  syruj)  will  retain  their  form,  color,  and 
their  fresh  and  natural  taste.  Juicy  fruits  require  a  rich  syruj),  like 
the  above,  but  dry  fruits  which  require  long  cooking  need  a  thinner 
syrup  made  of  equal  parts  of  water  and  sugar. 

Graining. — A  little  acid  added  to  syrup  will  prevent  graining,  as 
explained  for  candy  making. 

TABLE    SHOWING    THE    TIME    TO    BOIL     AND    THE    AMOUNT    OF    SUGAR 
NEEDED   FOR   VARIOUS   FRUITS   IN   MAKING   PRESERVES.* 


NAME  OF  FRUIT. 

Apples,  sour,  quartered . 
Apples,  sour,  whole  . . . . 

Blackberries 

Blueberries 

Cherries 

Crab=apples,  whole  . .  .  . 

Currants,  ripe 

Grapes,   wild 

Peaches,  halved 

Peaches,  whole 

Pears,  small  sour,  whole 
Pears,  Bartlett,  halved. 

Pineapples,  sliced 

Plums 

Quinces,  quartered  .  . . . 

Raspberries 

Rhubarb,  sliced 

Strawberries 

Tomatoes 

Whortleberries 


TIME  TO  BOIL  IN 
MINUTES. 

SUGAR  NEEDED  FOR  EACH 
QUART  OF  FRUIT. 

10 

G  ounces 

30 

6 

i 

6  (moderately) 

6 

i 

5 

4 

" 

5  (moderately) 

6 

' 

25 

8 

( 

6 

8 

( 

10 

8 

( 

8 

8 

( 

15 

8 

< 

30 

8 

« 

20 

6 

< 

15 

6 

' 

10  (moderately) 

8 

( 

25 

10 

( 

6  (moderately) 

4 

< 

10 

10 

( 

8  (moderately) 

8 

* 

20 

.    8 

' 

5 

4 

* 

APPLE   PRESERVES.— Choose  firm,  well^flavored  apples,  and 
proceed  as  directed  for  quinces.      They  can  be  improved  by  adding 

•For  Cooking  in  High  Altitudes  see  pages  16  and  358. 


PRESEKVES  507 

«i 
the  juioe  of  1  lemon  to  each  1-|  lbs.  of  apples;  or  cut  up  and  add  a 
little  quince. 

PRESERVED  APRICOTS— Stone  and  pare  1  lb.  of  the  finest 
apricots,  put  them  into  a  preserving  pan,  and  dust  on  some  double 
refined  sugar;  have  ready  and  add  1  cup  of  the  juice  of  white 
currants,  pressed  out  of  raw  berries;  1^  lbs.  loaf  sugar,  putting  in 
half  of  it  first,  and  adding  the  balance  at  2  different  times  during  the 
cooking.  Boil  them  over  a  slow  fire,  and  when  done  put  them  ujd, 
putting  2  or  3  in  a  glass;  be  careful  not  to  break  them  in  the  skim- 
ming.    A  little  more  boiling  makes  it  jam. 

CRAB  APPLE  PRESERVES— The  red  Siberian  crab  is  the 
best.  Pick  out  those  nearly  perfect,  leaving  the  stems  on;  put  them 
in  the  preserving  kettle  with  enough  warm  water  to  cover  them,  heat 
this  to  boiling  slowly,  and  simmer  until  the  skins  break.  Drain  and 
skin  them;  then  with  a  pen-knife  extract  the  cores  through  the  blos- 
som ends.  Weigh  them,  allow  1^  lbs.  sugar  and  a  gill  of  water  to 
every  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  the  water  and  sugar  together  until  the 
scum  ceases  to  rise,  put  in  the  fruit,  cover  the  kettle,  and  simmer 
until  the  apples  are  a  clear  red  and  tender.  Take  out  with  a  skim- 
mer, spread  upon  dishes  to  cool  and  harden;  add  to  the  syrup  the 
juice  of  1  lemon  to  3  lbs.  fruit,  and  boil  until  clear  and  rich.  Fill 
jars  f  full  with  apples,  pour  in  the  syrup,  and  when  cool,  tie  up. 

BARBERRY  PRESERVES— Use  1  lb.  sugar 
and  1  cup  water  to  1  lb.  of  barberries;  prepare 
the  syrup  and  put  in  the  barberries,  let  them 
cook  until  the  syrup  is  quite  thick,  which  will 
probably  be  in  about  2  hours.  Then  put  them  up 
in  jars  with  enough  syrup  to  keep  them.  The 
rest  of  the  syrup  can  be  strained,  put  in  bottles, 
and  corked  tight,  and  it  can  be  used  to  make  a 
delightful  and  a  refreshing  drink. 

The  Babbeeky  is  found  in  most  parts  of  the  world.  Its 
fruit  is  cooling,  astringent,  and  very  acid.  The  juice,  mixed 
with  water,  makes  a  refreshing  fever  drink.  The  bright  red 
berries,  alternating  with  parsley,  are  a  very  pretty  garnish  for  white  meats. 

BLACKBERRY  PRESERVES.— Choose  the  best  berries,  pick 
them  over,  and  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  berries;  let  them  stand  for  1 
or  2  hours  spread  on  dishes  with  the  sugar  sprinkled  on;  then  put 
them  on  the  stove  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  adding  all  the  juice  which 
came  from  them,  and  heat  slightly.  Now  take  them  out,  putting 
them  on  the  plates,  and  boil  the  syrup  for  5  minutes  rapidly;  then 


BABBEBBIES. 


508  PRESEKVES 

put  back  the  berries,  and  let  them  simmer  {not  boil)',  if  they  show  a 
tendency  to  break,  take  them  from  the  stove  at  once.  Cool  them 
slightly,  and  put  in  jelly  glasses. 

Currants  and  Dewberries  are  put  wp  the  same  way 

PRESERVED  CHERRIES — Select  short^stemmed  red  cherries, 
or  Morelloes,  as  sweet  cherries  are  not  suitable  for  preserving. 
Stone  them,  and  save  every  drop  of  the  juice;  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to 
each  i3ound  of  fruit;  first  put  in  a  layer  of  sugar,  then  a  layer  of 
fruit,  and  so  on  until  all  are  put  in;  let  them  stand  2  or  3  hours,  pour 
over  the  juice,  and  boil  gently  until  the  syrup  begins  to  thicken; 
then  put  in  jars.  Adding  3  tablespoons  of  red  currant  juice  to  each 
lb.  of  fruit  is  an  improvement. 

Currants  may  be  put  up  the  same  way.  White  cm-rants  make 
fine  preserves. 

CITRON  MELON. — Pare  and  cut  the  melons  into  small  pieces 
about  ^  inch  square.  Put  in  a  porcelain  kettle;  cover  with  water 
and  boil  until  tender,  but  not  to  break;  then  put  them  in  a  cloth 
strainer  and  hang  up  to  drain  over  night.  The  next  day  weigh  the 
melon,  and  with  an  equal  weight  of  granulated  sugar  make  enough 
syrup  to  cover  the  melon,  then  boil  gently  until  the  melon  is  clear. 
By  this  time  the  syrup  will  have  become  quite  thick.  Set  away  in 
the  kettle  to  stand  over  night,  or  until  it  is  cooled  through.  Allow  4 
lemons  to  every  pound  of  the  preserves.  Squeeze  and  strain  the 
lemon  juice  on  to  the  preserves,  and  with  the  hand  lift  and  gently 
mix  all  together,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  cubes  of  melon.  Put 
cold  into  glass  jars;  place  a  few  cloves,  from  which  the  heads  have 
been  taken,  on  the  toia  of  each  jar;  screw  the  cover  on  tightly,  and 
put  in  a  dark,  cool  place.  It  must  be  a  month  old  before  using. 
This  is  a  delicious  sweetmeat.  Be  sure  that  the  lemons  are  not 
bitter. 

CITRON      PRESERVES— These      should    be 
made  as  late  in  the  season  as  possible,  when  the 
melons  are  ripest.      After  paring,   cut  into  fancy 
shapes,  but  not  too  small.     Cook  till  tender,  in  just 
water  enough  to  cover,  with  a  large  spoonful  of  al- 
um added.     Drain  the  pieces  well,  and  then  cook  ^ 
hour  in  the  preserving  syrup,  with  the  juice  of  sev- 
eral lemons  added,  omitting  the  rind,  as  it  is  apt  to  oitbon. 
impart  a  bitter  taste.     In  a  few  weeks  this  citron  may  be  taken  from 
the  syrup,  drained,  dipped  in  powdered  sugar,  and  dried  on  plates  in 
the  sun,  when  it  is  very  nice  for  cake,  to  add  to  its  flavor  and  beauty. 


PKESEKVES  509 

If  this  is  to  be  done  on  a  large  scale,  however,  the  pieces  of  citron 
should  be  quite  large  for  convenience. 

CRANBERRY  PRESERVES— Allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  each  pound 
of  berries;  make  a  strong  syrup  by  adding  water,  using  only  enough 
water  to  dissolve  the  sugar;  put  in  the  fruit  boil  until  tender,  and 
put  into  glasses. 

PRESERVED  BLACK  CURRANTS.— Pick  over  the  currants 
and  cook  till  all  are  broken.  Add  -^  as  much  sugar  (measured)  as 
you  have  fruit.  Cook  ^  hour  longer  and  seal.  This  is  excellent  for 
sore  throat. 

FIG  PRESERVES..— Gather  the  fruit  when  fully  ripe  but  not 
cracked  open;  place  it  in  a  perforated  tin  bucket  or  wire,,  screen,  and 
dip  it  for  a  moment  in  a  deep  kettle  of  lye,  hot  and  moderately 
strong  (some  prefer  to  let  them  lay  an  hour  in  lime  water,  draining 
them  afterwards).  Allow  1  lb.  of  sugar  to  1  lb.  figs,  make  it  into  a 
syrup;  drain  the  figs,  put  them  in,  and  boil  until  well  cooked;  skim 
out  the  figs  and  boil  down  the  syrup  until  there  is  just  enough  to 
cover  the  figs;  put  the  figs  back  in  the  syrup,  let  all  boil,  put  into 
glasses  while  hot,  and  seal. 

GREEN  FIG  PRESERVES.— Lay  the  figs  in  cold  wafer  for  24 
hours;  then  simmer  them  until  tender;  x^.ut  them  again  in  cold  water, 
and  let  them  remain  2  days,  changing  the  water  each  day.  Then  if 
you  do  not  find  them  soft,  give  them  another  simmer  and  put  them 
again  into  cold  water  until  the  next  day.  Then  take  1  lb.  sugar  to  1 
lb.  fruit,  and  with  f  of  it  make  a  syrup  and  simmer  the  figs  in  it  for 
10  minutes.  In  2  days  take  the  remaining  ^  of  the  sugar  and  pour 
the  syrup  from  the  figs  on  it.  Make  a  rich  syrup,  adding  the  peel  of 
a  lemon  and  a  little  raw  ginger,  and  boil  the  figs  in  it;  then  mix  all 
together  and  put  into  large  jam-pots  and  tie  them  closely  over.  The 
figs  may  be  cut  in  half  if  preferred,  after  they  have  simmered  until 
soft. 

TOMATO  FIGS — These,  although  made  from  tomatoes,  will 
nearly  approach  true  figs,  and  will  keep  as  long  as  desired.  Select 
good  tomatoes,  scald,  skin  them,  and  allow  1-|  lbs.  best  brown  sugar 
to  each  4  lbs.  tomatoes.  Let  them  simmer  gently  in  the  sugar  until 
they  cook  clear,  and  the  sugar  permeates  them  thoroughly  (add  no 
water),  and  then  take  them  out  and  dry  them,  spread  on  dishes  in 
the  sun;  while  they  are  drying  sprinkle  a  little  syrup  on  them.  Pack 
them  in  layers  with  sugar  between,  in  boxes  or  jars.  While  drying 
do  not  let  rain  or  dew  fall  on  them. 


510  PRESEKVES 

GREEN  GINGER  PRESERVES.— Put  the  ginger  for  2  weeks 
every  night  and  morning  into  boiling  water;  then  j)aie  off  the  outside 
skin  with  a  sharp  knife.  Boil  it  in  water  till  quite  soft,  and  slice  it 
into  thin  slices.  Prepare  a  syrup  of  1  lb.  sugar  to  |  pint  water,  clar- 
ify it,  put  in  the  ginger,  and  boil  till  it  is  clear.  Let  it  cool  before 
putting  it  in  jars. 

MOCK  GINGER  PRESERVES.— Boil  small  tender  carrots, 
scrape  them  until  free  of  all  spots,  and  cut  out  the  heart  or  middle 
portion.  Steep  them  for  several  days  in  frequently  changed  water, 
until  the  flavor  of  the  carrot  has  been  completely  destroyed.  Allow 
1  quart  of  water,  2  lbs.  sugar,  2  oz.  whole  ginger,  and  the  thin  peel 
(yellow  only)  of  1  lemon  to  each  jjound  of  prepared  carrots.  Boil  ^ 
hour  daily  until  the  carrots  are  transparent.  When  done,  add 
enough  red  pepper  to  make  the  preserves  as  hot  as  desired. 

GOOSEBERRY  PRESERVES.— Allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  each  pound 
of  gooseberries;  top  and  tail  them,  and  put  the  berries  and  sugar  into 
a  deep  jar  in  alternate  layers;  pour  on  enough  red  currant  juice  to 
dissolve  the  sugar  and  add  the  same  weight  of  sugar;  cook  it  next 
day  in  the  preserving  pan,  and  put  it  in  glasses. 

GRAPE  PRESERVES — Pick  from  the  stem, 
wash,  drain,  and  weigh,  and  allow  an  equal  weight  of 
sugar;  then  press  the  skin  from  the  pulp  with  the 
thumb  and  finger,  and  cook  the  pulp  gently;  when 
the  seeds  loosen  pass  it  through  a  sieve  to  remove 
them.  Then  put  the  skins  into  the  juice,  cover,  and 
simmer  gently  until  tender;  add  the  sugar,  keep  it 
hot,  loithout  boiling,  15  minutes,  and  can. 

Grapes  of  all  varieties  are  mostly  natives  of  tropical  and 
6emi=tropical  regions.  Some  varieties  are  dried  and  sold  as  rai- 
sins  and  currants.  Fresh,  ripe  grapes,  contain  much  sugar, 
sometimes  nearly  20$^  and  the  acid  is  chiefly  tartaric,  part  of 
which  is  combined  with  potash.  All  grapes  are  nutritive  and  sultana  gkape. 
wJiolesome,  but  they  are  subject  to  fermentations,  and  when  eat- 
en immoderately  sometimes  bring  on  colic.  In  moderation  they  may  be  safely 
eaten  even  by  invalids,  and  are  refrigerant,  diuretic  and  laxative. 

GREEN  GOOSEBERRY  PRESERVES.— Top,  tail  and  wash  the 
gooseberries  in  cold  water,  and  drain;  then  pour  on  boiling  water  and 
let  stand  a  few  minutes  to  scald;  this  will  soften  them  and  extract 
part  of  their  acid;  when  tender,  take  them  out  with  a  skimmer  and 
slip  them  into  cold  water,  leave  a  few  minutes  and  take  out  with  the 
skimmer,  and  slide  carefully  into  the  syrup;  have  the  syrup  made 
with  3  cups  water  and  1^  lbs.  sugar  for  each  lb.  of  gooseberries;  let 


PRESEKVES 


511 


them  simmer  slowly  in  the  syrup  until  quite  clear — about  20  min- 
utes; if  they  seem  likely  to  break  take  them  out  sooner  with  the 
skimmer,  and  let  the  syrup  boil  a  little  longer;  put  them  in  the  jars, 
and  when  cold  pour  on  the  syrup,  and  tie  up. 

GREENGAGE  PRESERVES — Prick  the  plums  with  a  fine 
needle  to  prevent  their  breaking,  put  them  into  a  preserving  pan 
with  only  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  set  them  over  a  gentle 
fire  until  the  water  simmers;  then  take  them  out  and  set  them  on  a 
sieve  to  drain.  Add  to  the  water  in  which  the  plums  were  boiled  1 
lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  plums;  boil  it  quickly,  skimming  it  as  the  scum 
rises,  until  the  syrujp  thickens  on  the  spoon;  then  put  in  the  plums, 
let  them  boil  until  the  sugar  bubbles,  and  pour  the  whole  into  a  ba- 
sin; let  it  stand  until  the  next  day.  Drain  the  syrup  from  the  fruit, 
boil  it  up  quickly,  and  pour  it  over  the  plums.  Repeat  this  4  days, 
which  cooks  the  fruit  without  injuring  the  shape;  then  boil  it  in  the 
syrup  for  5  or  6  minutes,  put  into  jars,  and  pour  the  syrup  over. 
The  kernels  must  be  blanched  and  boiled  with  the  fruit. 

Damsons  can  be  put  up  the  same  way. 

Gkeengages  are  a  variety  of  plum,  although  not  the  largest  in  size;  for  deli- 
cacy and  richness  of  flavor  they  are  unsurpassed,  and  are  generally  esteemed  as 
one  of  the  finest  varieties.  The  name  is  derived  from  the  Gage  family  who  intro- 
duced them  into  England. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PRESERVES.— Use  f  lb.  of  sugar  and  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon  to  each  lb.  of  huckleberries;  put  half  the  sugar 
on  the  berries,  and  let  stand  a  few  hours  or  over  night;  then  drain  off 
the  juice,  add  1  cup  water,  the  lemon  juice,  and  the  balance  of  the 
sugar;  set  it  on  the  stove  till 
the  sugar  dissolves,  boil  quick- 
ly, and  skim;  then  put  in  the 
berries  and  let  it  simmer 
merely  until  they  are  tender 
— about  I  hour;  then  take 
them  out,  put  in  jars  and 
when  cold,  pour  on  the  syrup 
and  tie  up. 

Bilberries  can  be  preserved 
the  same  way. 

The  Bilberry  is  found  in  the 
northern  parts  of  the  world,  and  it 
belongs  to  the  same  species  as  the 
whortleberry.  Its  composition  and 
pro]»erties  are  about  the  same,  and 
it  is  very  wholesome. 


.\  41/ 


^ 


512  PEESERVES 

PRESERVED  LEMONS.— Pare  off  the  thin  yellow  skin  care- 
fully, cut  a  small  hole  in  the  end,  scoop  out  the  pulp  carefully  with  a 
silver  spoon,  rub  each  one  with  salt  and  drop  it  into  clear  cold  M^ater 
as  fast  as  finished,  which  will  prevent  its  turning  dark;  let  them  lie 
in  it  5  or  6  days,  and  then  boil  them  in  fresh  salt  and  water  15  min- 
utes. Have  ready  made  a  thin  syrup  of  1  quart  of  water  to  1  lb. 
sugar;  drain,  and  boil  them  in  this  for  5  minutes,  and  repeat  once  a 
day  for  4  or  5  days;  then  j)ut  them  in  jars  with  the  syrup  and  let 
them  stand  6  or  8  weeks,  as  that  will  make  them  clear  and  plump; 
then  take  them  out  of  the  syrup.  Make  a  fresh  syrup  of  double 
refined  sugar,  with  only  enough  water  to  moisten  it;  boil  and  skim 
it,  put  in  the  lemons,  and  let  them  simmer  slowly  until  they  are  clear. 
Put  them  in  small  jars,  covered  as  previously  directed,  and  tie  them 
up  tight. 

MULBERRY  PRESERVES— Put  about  1  lb.  of  mulberries  into 
a  preserving  pan  with  ^  cup  water  to  prevent  burning;  simmer  slowly 
over  a  slow  fire  until  all  the  mulberries  are  soft;  strain  through  a 
fine  sieve,  and  add  5  lbs.  of  sugar  to  each  4  cups  of  juice.  Put  the 
sugar  into  the  preserving  pan,  pour  the  strained  juice  on  it,  boil  up, 
and  skim  it  well.  Then  add  4  lbs.  of  ripe  mulberries,  and  let  them 
stand  in  the  syrup  until  warm;  then  boil 
them  slowly  for  about  ^  hour,  and  turn  them 
out  carefully  into  a  china  bowl  until  the  next 
day;  then  repeat  the  boiling  ^  hour,  or  until 
the  syrup  is  thick  and  will  jelly  when  cold. 
Put  into  jelly  glasses,  set  away  to  cool,  and 
then  tie  up.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  break 
the  mulberries  when  boiling. 

The  Mulbebey  is  a  tree  of  which  there  are  many 
varieties.  The  black  is  cultivated  for  its  fruit,  and 
^he  white  for  its  leaves  on  which  silkworms  feed. 
The   black    is    a    native    of   Persia.      Some   varieties 

attain  a   height  of  only  15  feet,  and  others  grow  to  45  mulbebby. 

or  50  feet.     The  fruit  is  wholesome,  cooling  and  rather 
laxative,  but  when  eaten  to  any  large  extent  it  is  apt  to  disorder  the  stomach  and 
bowels. 

MUSKMELONS. — Choose  ripe  muskraelons,  remove  the  seeds, 
peel,  cut  in  pieces,  XDut  into  a  stone  jar,  and  cover  with  scalding 
vinegar;  let  them  stand  until  the  next  day,  pour  off  the  vinegar,  heat 
it,  and  pour  on  them  again;  repeat  this  every  day  for  4  days.  To 
each  5  lbs.  of  fruit  allow  1  quart  of  vinegar,  3  lbs.  sugar,  and  spices 
to  suit;  put  all  together,  and  simmer  until  the  melons  are  tender; 
then  set  aside,  and  the  second  day  pour  off  the  syrup,  and  boil  it 
down  so  there  will  be  just  enough  to  cover  the  melons.  Then  put 
in  glasses. 


PRESERVES  513 

PRESERVED  ORANGES — Select  very  ripe  oranges,  cut  a  small 
hole  in  the  stalk  end,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp  with  a  silver  spoon 
very  clean,  and  be  careful  not  to  break  the  rind;  save  all  the  juice  by 
holding  the  orange  over  a  bowl  while  scooping  it  out,  and  drop  each 
one  into  a  basin  of  cold  water  as  fast  as  done;  then  drain  them,  put 
into  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  pour  on  enough  boiling  water  to  cover 
them,  having  dissolved  in  it  1  teaspoon  of  alum  to  each  ^  gallon  of 
water;  let  them  simmer  gently  in  this  solution  until  almost  trans- 
parent and  clear;  now  drain  them,  put  into  cold  water,  change  it  2  or 
8  times,  and  let  them  stand  until  next  morning,  then  drain  again, 
pour  on  boiling  water  to  cover,  and  again  gently  simmer  for  1^  hours, 
and  drain  them;  now  allow  1  lb.  of  sugar  and  1  cup  water  for  each 
pound  of  the  rinds,  and  make  the  sugar  and  water  into  a  syrup;  then 
put  in  the  oranges,  together  with  the  juice  which  was  saved,  and 
gently  simmer  until  they  are  clear  and  tender;  then  take  them  out, 
lay  them  on  dishes  to  dry,  and  set  away  2  days,  and  the  syrup  also. 
Now  take  4  fresh  oranges  for  each  1  which  is  being  preserved,  cut 
them  in  two,  extract  the  juice,  and  allow  1^  lbs.  sugar  to  each  pint  of 
it.  Put  this  sugar  and  juice  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  the  sugar 
dissolves,  boil  it  quickly  to  a  thick  jelly,  which  should  be  in  about  20 
minutes;  test  it  and  it  will  be  done  if  a  teaspoon  of  it  hardens  at  once 
when  set  in  a  saucer  in  a  cool  place.  Now  put  this  jelly  into  the  or- 
anges, filling  them  full,  and  let  it  harden  until  the  next  morning. 
Then  put  them  in  glasses  with  the  open  end  down,  and  pour  on  the 
first  syrup,  and  tie  them  up.  They  will  be  found  a  delicious  pre- 
serve. 

Lemons  and  Limes  can  be  put  up  in  the  same  manner. 
Preserved  Oranges  No.  2 — Select  good  oranges  and  boil  them  in 
soft  water  until  you  can  run  a  broom  straw  through  the  skin.  Allow 
f  lb.  sugar  for  1  lb.  oranges,  make  it  into  a  syrup,  and  clarify  it;  then 
drain  the  oranges  from  the  water,  pour  on  the  hot  syrup,  and  let  them 
stand  in  it  over  night.  Boil  them  in  the  syrup  the  next  day  until  it 
is  thick  and  clear;  then  put  them  in  jars,  pour  the  strained  syrup  on 
them,  and  tie  up. 

ORANGE  AND  RHUBARB  PRESERVES — Take  6  oranges  and 
carefully  peel  off  the  thin  yellow  rind;  remove  the  white  rind  and 
the  seeds,  and  slice  the  pulp  into  a  preserving  pan,  adding  the  yellow 
rind  cut  very  fine.  Add  1  quart  of  rhubarb  cut  fine,  and  1  lb.  to  1^ 
lbs.  sugar,  and  bcil  the  whole  down  and  put  up  like  any  other  pre- 
serves. 

PEACH  PRESERVES — Select  fine  ripe  peaches;  pare.  Halve 
and  stone  them;  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit,  and  put  a  layer  of 

83 


514  PRESEKVES 

sugar  in  the  kettle,  then  a  layer  of  peaches,  and  so  on  alternately  un- 
til all  is  used.  Cover  and  let  it  stand  until  the  next  morning;  then 
bring  to  a  boil  quickly,  and  let  it  simmer  merely,  until  the  fruit  is 
clear  and  tender.  Blanch  and  add  4  peach  kernels  for  each  pound  of 
fruit,  for  flavor,  when  it  begins  to  boil.  Then  lift  out  the  fruit 
carefully,  and  put  it  into  glasses;  boil  the  syrup  until  thick  (about  15 
minutes)  and  pour  it  over. 

Apricots  and  Nectarines  can  be  put  up  in  the  same  way. 

Pears  can  be  put  up  in  like  manner,  but  they  should  be  pared; 
leave  the  stems  on,  and  if  small  put  them  up  whole.  Add  no  peach 
kernels  for  pears,  apricots  or  nectarines. 

PRESERVING    PEACHES   WITHOUT  COOKING.— Brush    the 

down  from  the  peaches,  and  put  them  into  a  deep  dish ;  pour  enough 
boiling  water  on  to  cover  them,  and  lay  a  thickly^folded  towel  over 
the  dish,  and  let  it  stand  until  the  water  is  nearly  cold;  then  take  out 
the  peaches  one  by  one  and  rub  off  the  skins  with  a  coarse  towel. 
Then  put  a  layer  of  sugar  in  a  jar,  then  a  layer  of  peaches,  cover 
them  thickly  with  sugar,  and  so  on  alternately,  having  sugar  on  top. 
Close  and  seal  them  down  at  once,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 
Removing  the  skins  by  the  use  of  hot  water  as  above  directed,  is 
much  easier  than  paring  them. 

PRESERVED  PEARS— If  large,  they  can  be  pared  and  quar- 
tered; if  small,  they  can  be  pared  and  put  up  whole.  Allow  equal 
weights  of  fruit  and  sugar;  make  the  sugar  into  a  syrup,  using  1  cup 
of  water  to  the  pound;  when  clear,  put  in  the  fruit  and  heat  it 
through;  then  take  it  out  and  cool  it;  then  put  it  back  and  cook  un- 
til soft,  and  then  put  in  jars.  A  clove  stuck  in  the  end  of  each  pear 
before  cooking  imparts  a  pleasant  flavor.  Some  people  stew  a  few 
slices  of  lemon  peel  in  the  syrup  for  flavoring. 

PRESERVED  PINEAPPLE— Pare  off  the  rough  outside  care- 
fully, that  nothing  be  lost,  and  slice  the  fruit;  put  it  in  a  preserving 
pan,  add  1  teacup  of  water  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  and  boil  gently 
until  it  is  tender  and  clear;  then  take  it  out  with  a  skimmer,  add  1 
lb.  of  sugar  to  1  lb.  of  fruit,  stir  until  it  is  dissolved,  then  put  in  the 
pineapple  and  let  it  boil  gently  until  it  is  transparent  throughout: 
then  take  out  the  fruit,  cool  it,  and  put  it  into  glass  jars.  Let  the 
syrup  simmer  gently  until  it  is  thick  and  rich,  and  when  nearly  cool 
pour  it  over  the  fruit,  and  the  next  day  seal  up  the  jars.  Pineapple 
is  often  jput  directly  into  the  syrup  without  first  boiling  in  water,  but 
it  is  then  tougher  and  not  so  good. 

See  "  Pineapple  Jam  "  for  a  way  to  utilize  the  parings. 


PEESERVES  515 

PRESERVED  PLUMS.— (1)  "Weigh  them  and  allow  1  lb.  sugar 
to  1  lb.  plums;  put  a  layer  of  sugar  in  a  stone  jar,  then  a  layer  of 
plums,  and  so  on  alternately  until  all  are  in,  finishing  with  sugar; 
now  put  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  leave 
them  until  the  oven  cools,  or  put  them  in  at 
tea=time,  and  let  them  stay  all  night;  then  boil 
and  clarify  the  juice,  after  straining  it  from  the 
plums;  put  the  fruit  in  glasses,  pour  on  the  hot 
syrup,  and  tie  up.  (2)  Another  way  is  to  allow 
I  lb.  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Divide  the 
plums,  take  out  the  stones,  and  put  them  on  a 
dish  with  sugar  strewed  over;  the  next  day  put 
them  into  a  preserving  pan  and  let  them  sim- 
mer gently  over  a  nice  fire  for  about  30  minutes;  plums. 
then  boil  them  quickly,  removing  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  keep 
them  constantly  stirred,  or  the  fruit  will  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the 
pan.  Crack  the  stones,  and  add  the  kernels  to  the  preserves  when  it 
boils.     Then  put  up  like  other  preserves. 

The  Plum  appears  to  have  been  introduced  into  Europe  from  the  East  where 
it  has  been  cultivated  from  very  ancient  times.  It  is  now  extensively  cultivated  and 
is  a  very  useful  fruit.  When  perfectly  ripe  the  best  plums  are  wholesome,  but 
some  varieties  are  too  astringent.  They  lose  much  of  their  bad  qualities  in  cook- 
ing, but  they  should  be  eaten  in  moderation.      They  make  good  preserves. 

PUMPKIN  PRESERVES — Choose  a  good  sweet  pumpkin,  pare, 
take  out  the  seeds  and  cut  into  slices.  Allow  1  lb.  sugar  and  1  gill 
of  lemon  juice  for  1  lb.  of  pumpkin.  Put  the  pumpkin  in  a  deep 
dish  in  layers,  with  the  sugar  sprinkled  between,  and  pour  the  lemon 
juice  on  top;  let  stand  2  or  3  days,  and  then  boil  all  together,  adding 
1  cup  water  for  each  3  lbs.  sugar  used,  until  the  pumpkin  is  tender; 
then  let  it  stand  for  1  week,  when  drain  ofp  the  syrup,  boil  until  it  is 
quite  thick,  skim,  and  pour  it  hot  over  the  pumpkin.  A  little  bruised 
ginger  and  lemon  rind  thinly  pared  may  be  boiled  in  the  syrup  to 
flavor  the  pumpkin. 

STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES.— Select  the  largest  berries,  and 
use  equal  weights  of  strawberries  and  sugar;  lay  the  fruit  in  deep 
dishes,  and  sprinkle  ^  the  sugar  over  them  in  fine  powder;  shake  the 
dish  so  that  the  sugar  may  touch  the  under  part  of  the  fruit.  The 
next  day  make  a  syrup  with  the  remainder  of  the  sugar  and  the 
juice  drawn  from  the  strawberries  and  boil  until  it  jellies;  then  put 
in  the  strawberries  carefully,  and  let  them  simmer  nearly  an  hour. 
Put  them  carefully  in  glass  jars  and  fill  up  with  the  syrup;  there  will 
be  more  than  enough  to  fill  the  jars,  but  after  standing  over  night 


516 


PRESERVES 


the  jars  will  hold  more.  Any  syrup  remaining  can  be  used  in  mak- 
ing pudding  sauces,  etc.  Putting  strawberries  up  whole  thus,  is 
much  the  best  way. 

Raspberries  can  be  put  up  the  same  way 

QUINCE   PRESERVES.— 

Take  fine  yellow  quinces,  and  pare, 
quarter  and  core  them  (save  cores 
and  skins) ;  add  just  water  enough 
to  cover  the  quinces,  set  them  on 
the  stove  and  simmer  until  soft, 
but  not  until  they  begin  to  break; 
carefully  remove  the  fruit,  spread 
it  on  dishes  to  cool,  and  into  the 
water  in  which  the  quinces  were 
boiled  put  the  cores,  seeds  and 
parings;  stew  it  1  hour,  covered 
closely,  and  strain  it  through  a 
jelly  bag;  add  1  lb.  sugar  for  each 
pint  of  this  liquor,  boil  it  up, 
skim,    and    put   in    the    quinces  quince, 

and  boil  gently  25  minutes;  let  it  stand  in  a  deep  dish,  closely  cov 
ered,  24  hours;  then  drain  ofp  the  syrup,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  put  in 
.the  fruit  carefully,  and  boil  |  hour;  then  take  it  out  as  dry  as  pos- 
sible, spread  it  on  dishes  to  cool,  and  boil  the  syrup  down  thick;  fill 
jars  I  full  of  fruit,  and  pour  on  the  syrup.  The  preserves  should  be 
of  a  fine  red  color.  An  equal  amount  of  sweet  apples  can  be  cooked 
with  the  quinces  (and  without  additional  sugar),  and  the  difference 
will  hardly  be  noticed. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PRESERVES.— Select  small,  even^sized  toma- 
toes for  preserving.  To  each  3  lbs,  tomatoes  take  2  fresh  lemons; 
pare  off  the  yellow  rind  thin,  so  as  to  leave  the  white  part,  and 
squeeze  out  the  juice.  First  boil  the  tomatoes  in  water  sufficient  to 
cover  them,  until  they  begin  to  get  tender;  add  the  lemon  and  a  few 
peach  leaves  and  powdered  ginger  tied  in  muslin  bags;  boil  together 
until  the  tomatoes  are  tender,  take  them  out  carefully,  strain  the 
liquor,  and  add  to  it  1^  lbs,  sugar  for  each  pound  tomatoes;  put  the 
tomatoes  back  into  the  syrup,  and  boil  until  they  appear  to  be  done. 
In  the  course  of  a  week  pour  the  syrup  from  the  tomatoes,  heat  it 
scalding  hot,   and  pour  it  again  on  the  tomatoes;  then  tie  up, 

RIPE  TOMATO  PRESERVES — For  these  use  for  8  lbs.  tomatoes, 
7  lbs.  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  4  lemons.      Peel  the  tomatoes,  and  let 


PRESERVES  517 

lemon  juice,  sugar  and  tomatoes  stand  together  over  night;  drain  ofp 
the  syrup  and  boil  it,  skimming  it  well;  then  put  in  the  tomatoes  and 
allow  them  to  boil  gently  and  steadily  for  20  minutes.  Take  them  out 
with  the  skimmer  and  spread  them  on  dishes  to  cool.  Boil  down  the 
syrup  until  it  thickens,  put  the  tomatoes  in  jars  and  pour  the 
syrup  over  them  hot. 

PRESERVED  WATERMELON  AND  CANTELOPE  RINDS.— It 

is  a  good  plan  to  keep  these  rinds  in  a  strong  solution  of  salt  and  water 
until  they  are  needed  for  preserving;  the  salt  can  then  be  removed 
by  boiling  them  in  fresh  water.  Now  soak  them  in  alum  water  (have 
it  weak)  for  a  little  while,  and  then  again  boil  in  clear  water  until  the 
alum  taste  disappears.  Allow  for  every  pound  of  rind  2  lbs.  sugar, 
and  make  it  into  a  rich  syrup,  clarifying  it;  then  boil  the  rind  for  1 
hour  in  this  syrup.  Adding  a  little  acid,  like  vinegar,  will  keep  the 
syrup  from  graining.     Flavor  with  lemon  if  desired. 


CANNING  FRUITS,  VEGETA- 
BLES, ETC. 

HEN  it  is  properly  done,  fruits  ana  vegetables  canned  at 
home  are  both  better  and  cheaper  than  those  bought  at 
stores.  Select  sound,  fresh  fruit,  and  use  good  sugar. 
The  first  record  of  canning  appears  in  a  paper  sub- 
mittea  to  the  English  Society  of  Arts  in  1807,  by  Mr.  Saddington; 
but  M.  Appert  who  first  put  it  into  use  on  a  large  scale  (about  1809) 
has  generally  received  the  credit  for  its  discovery.  Canning  in  its 
present  form  dates  from  a  patent  granted  in  1823  to  Pierre  Angii- 
bert. 

The  Principles  Involved. — The  principles  underlying  the  process  of  canning 
have  been,  quite  generally  misunderstood,  and  successful  fruit  canning  has  been  by 
many  people  supposed  to  depend  upon  the  observance  of  certain  methods  which 
•would  result  in  the  expulsion  of  the  air,  and  the  directions  have  been  to  boil  fruit 
to  expel  the  air,  to  heat  the  jars  very  hot,  to  stir  the  contents  that  all  air  bubbles 
may  escape,  to  fill  to  overflowing,  and  seal  immediately.  It  is  impossible  by  any 
heating  process  to  expel  all  the  air.  However  full  jars  may  be  filled  with  hot 
fruit,  when  cold  there  is  more  or  less  air  at  the  top.  The  correct  reason  for  heat- 
ing fruit  is  not  to  expel  the  air,  but  to  destroy  minute,  living  germs  (bacteria*) 
that  to  a  greater  or  less  extent  are  always  floating  in  the  air,  and  which  alight 
upon  fruit  and  all  other  substances.  These  germs  especially  abound  in  the  atmos- 
phere in  the  season  when  fruits  ripen.  Under  favorable  conditions  they  multiply 
with  marvelous  rapidity,  and  in  a  remarkably  short  space  of  time  entirely  change 
the  composition  of  fruit  and  its  juices.  This  disorganization  of  the  fruit  takes 
place  to  a  greater  or  less  extent  according  to  the  readiness  with  which  the  germs 
find  access  thereto,  and  the  favorableness  of  the  surrounding  conditions. 

Experiment  has  demonstrated,  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt,  that  most  of  the 
bacteria  which  produce  fermentation  (for  there  are  many  varieties  of  them)  can- 
not exist  in  a  temperature  above  140°,  and  nearly  all  die  at  130°  to  135°.  The 
spores,  however,  (corresponding  to  seeds)  are  more  tenacious  of  life  than  the  de- 
veloped bacteria,  but  these  are  all  killed  at  the  temperature  of  boiling  water  if 
submitted  to  its  action  for  some  time,  for  they  do  not  all  die  instantly,  even  at  that 
temperature.  It  should  also  be  said  that  the  bacteria  flourish  best  in  a  neutral  or 
alkaline  solution,  while  an  acid  solution  is  unfavorable  to  them,  and  the  acid 
nature  of  many  of  the  fruit  juices  hastens  their  destruction.  Furthermore  it  is 
difficult  to  arrange  so  that  the  central  parts  of  a  can  shall  receive  the  same  amount 
of  heat  as  the  surface,  particularly  in  the  case  of  solidly  packed  goods,  like  corn 
and  beans,  so  that  they  need  to  be  cooked  for  some  time. 


*  Bacteria  and  microbes  are  terms  applied  to  minute  organisms  which  abound 
everywhere,  and  which  play  an  important  part  in  the  economy  of  nature,  causing 
both  fermentation  and  putrefaction.  They  are  rather  more  like  plants  than  ani- 
mals, and  so  small  are  they  tlrat  the  most  powerful  microscope  makes  them  ap- 
pear as  little  more  than  dots  and  rods.  There  are  many  varieties,  but  in  shape 
they  take  principally  3  different  forms  which  may  be  compared  to  a  lead  pencil 
(those  having  this  form  are  called  bacilli),  a  ball  (called  cocus),  and  a  corkscrew 
(called  spirilum). 

618 


CANNING  FKUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  519 

These  being  the  principles  involved,  canning  resolves  itself  simply  into  kill- 
ing all  the  bacteria  and  spores,  and  preventing  any  new  ones  from  obtaining  access 
to  the  fruit,  and  the  simplest  and  most  effectual  method  of  doing  this  is  the  best. 

Fruit  has  often  been  cooked  more  than  was  necessary,  but  the  housewife  need 
not  be  troubled  by  having  her  fruit  "go  all  to  pieces"  and  get  "mussy"  when 
being  canned,  if  she  handles  it  intelligently.  Enclosing  air  in  the  can  when  it  is 
sealed  will  do  no  harm,  provided  such  air  has  been  heated  hot  enough  to  kill  all 
germs  floating  in  it.  If  the  cans  are  not  sealed  perfectly  air  tight,  cold,  unsteril- 
ized  air  will  in  time  enter  the  can,  carrying  in  living  germs.  These  are  so  infini- 
tesimally  small  that  they  will  pass  through  the  most  minute  opening  and  they 
will  then  begin  to  propagate,  and  cause  fermentation. 

The  Breaking  of  Jars. — If  fruit  is  put  into  jars  and  the  jars  put 
in  a  boiler,  surrounded  with  water  and  boiled,  the  jars  are  liable  to 
crack  if  set  directly  on  the  metal  bottom.  Breaking  will  be  prevent- 
ed by  putting  several  thicknesses  of  wet  cloth  under  the  jars;  or  use 
strips  of  wood,  or  hay  or  straw.  Wrapping  the  jars  in  hay  or  straw 
simply  keeps  them  from  touching  each  other  and  allows  the  water  to 
circulate  around  them  freely. 

A  fruit  jar  for  canning  hot  fruit  need  never  be  heated  by  rolling 
in  hot  water  or  otherwise;  a  cloth  wrung  from  cold  water  and  com- 
pletely swathing  the  jar  will  insure  against  cracking,  if  the  jar  is 
perfect,  and  if  it  is  not  it  will  be  likely  to  crack  in  any  event.  The 
cloth  should  be  soft,  and  touch  the  jar  in  every  part,  and  cover  the 
glass  well  at  the  top. 

Utensils. — See  what  we  say  about  "  The  Utensils  Used  "  in  the 
introduction  to  our  previous  chapter  on  "  Jams,  Jellies,  etc.,"  for 
the  action  of  the  acids  in  fruits  on  tin,  copper,  etc. 

Peaches. — If  peaches  are  dipped  in  scalding  hot  water  for  a 
minute  (some  use  hot  lye)  and  then  into  cold  water,  the  skin  will 
readily  slip  off.  If  the  stones  are  cracked  and  the  kernels  slightly 
cooked  in  the  syrup  which  is  poured  over  them  it  will  be  an  improve- 
ment. The  tastelessness  of  canned  peaches  sold  in  the  stores  often 
results  from  not  doing  this. 

Pare  Fruit  with  a  silver  or  aluminum  knife  and  use  forks  of  the 
same  metals — steel  will  discolor  it.  Drop  it  in  cold  water  as  soon 
as  pared,  which  will  prevent  its  turning  dark. 

To  Soften  Hard  Fruits,  like  apples,  pares,  hard  peaches  or  quinces, 
steam  them;  or  cpok  in  water  till  tender. 

Using  Sugar. — Although  fruits  can  be  canned  without  sugar,  many 
fruits  are  improved  by  the  use  of  more  or  less  of  it;  it  improves 
those  fruits  when  canned  which  require  it  when  fresh.  Fruits  which 
are  to  be  used  for  flavoring  ice  creams  and  water  ices,  are  best 
canned  without  sugar.  If  sugar  is  sprinkled  on  small  fruits,  and  left 
on  1  or  2  hours,  they  retain  their  shape  better.  Any  siirplus  juice 
from  strawberries  or  other  small  fruits,  can  be  made  into  jelly. 

Strain  syrup  which  is  not  clear  through  flue  flannel. 


520  CANNING  FKUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC. 

Sealing. — When  fruit  is  otherwise  properly  put  up  it  often  fails 
to  keep  because  of  improper  sealing;  covers  should  be  screwed  on 
reasonably  tight  at  first,  and  tightened  often  till  quite  cold;  the  glass 
shrinks  by  cooling,  and  the  covers  should  be  tightened  up  on  it  as 
it  shrinks.     Be  sure  the  rubbers  used  are  close  fitting  and  firm. 

If  corks  and  wax  are  used  in  sealing,  soak  the  corks  in  hot 
water:  dry  both  cork  and  the  edge  of  the  bottle  with  a  hot  cloth 
before  applying  the  wax,  to  insure  its  close  adherence  to  the  glass. 

Parafine  paper  tied  or  pasted  over  heated  fruit  will  keep  it  sweet 
for  quite  a  time  in  summer,  and  for  weeks  in  cold  weather.  It  is  also 
recommended  for  covering  jellies  and  jams,  as  it  is  impervious  to  air 
and  is  water-proof. 

Keeping. — All  goods  canned  in  glass  (and  that  is  the  safest  and 
most  reliable  thing  to  use)  should  be  kept  in  the  dark,  or  the  cans 
wrapped  in  paper,  as  the  light  will  bleach  and  injure  many  fruits, 
especially  tomatoes  and  strawberries.  Canned  fruit  and  vegetables 
should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  and  dark  place. 

The  Flavor  of  Canned  Fruit  is  improved  if  it  is  opened  some  time 
before  it  is  needed  for  use,  and  allowed  to  aerate. 

Vegetables  Intended  for  Canning  should  be  as  fresh  as  possible,  as 
wilted  vegetables  will  not  can  well. 

The  Food  Value  of  Canned  Goods. — A  careful  analysis  of  the  canned  good« 
sold  in  the  market  has  shown  that  they  should  be  regarded  mainly  in  the  light  of 
an  expensive  luxury.  This  is  owing  principally  to  the  large  amount  of  water  they 
contain.  In  such  articles  as  corn  and  string  beans  a  test  has  shown  that  the  con- 
tents of  the  can  consists  of  65%  to  25%  of  water,  so  that  if  one  bought  100 
lbs.  of  these  goods,  he  would  buy  65  lbs.  to  95  lbs.  of  water,  and  only  5  lbs.  to  35 
lbs.  of  dry  food  material.  For  this  reason  10  or  25  cents  invested  in  flour,  corn 
meal  or  meat  will  get  as  much  actual /ood  material  for  the  body  as  $1  or  $2  will 
if  invested  in  canned  goods.  Poor  people,  and  those  of  moderate  means  should 
understand  these  things.  When,  however,  the  goods  are  canned  at  home  the  food 
is,  of  course,  bought  uncanned,  and  as  cheaply  as  it  could  be  obtained  in  any  form. 
If  properly  put  up  canned  goods  are  wholesome. 

A  WoKD  or  Caution. — Sometimes  goods  which  are  put  up  in  tin  cans,  and 
which  are  all  right  when  opened,  are  allowed  to  stand  afterwards  exposed  to  the 
air,  and  then  the  acid  they  contain  will  at  once  attack  the  lead  in  the  tin,  produc- 
ing poisonous  compounds  of  lead.  For  this  reason  the  contents  of  tin  cans  should 
be  emptied  out  at  once  on  being  opened.  So  important  is  this  that  it  should  be 
understood  by  every  one. 

Salicylic  Acid. — This  has  been  often  used  in  canning  fruits,  and  many  agents 
have  passed  through  the  country  selling  recipes  or  preparations  guaranteed  to  pre- 
serve fruit,  the  active  ingredient  of  which  was  salicylic  or  some  form  of  sulfurous 
acid.  These  should  never  be  used.  They  may  injure  the  health  of  the  consumer, 
they  impair  the  taste  of  the  fruit,  and  their  use  is  wholly  unnecessary,  as  fruit  is 
easily  canned  successfully  without  them.     Don't  buy  or  use  such  preparations. 

CANNING  BERRIES,  ETC.— To  can  small  fruit,  or  those  which 
require  little  cooking,  such  as  berries,  peaches,  etc.,  allow  for  every 
quart  jar  1  teacup  of  sugar,  more  or  less  according  to  the  acidity  of 
the  fruit.     Dissolve  the  sugar  in  a  very  little  water,  put  the  fruit  in 


CANNING  FRUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC  521 

it  and  heat  to  the  boiling  point;  swathe  each  jar  with  a  wet  cloth, 
fill  it  with  fruit,  and  seal  it  at  once  while  hot. 

CANNING  APPLES — Select  choice  apples,  pare,  quarter,  core, 
and  let  simmer  merely,  until  tender;  then  drain  them  out,  put  into 
hot  syrup,  boil  2  or  3  minutes,  and  fill  hot  into  jars.  The  juice  and 
rind  of  1  lemon  to  4  lbs.  apples  imparts  a  pleasant  flavor.  Using  1  lb. 
of  quinces  or  1  good-sized  pineapple  to  4  lbs.  apples  also  makes  a 
pleasant  combination. 

CANNING  CURRANTS.— Use  |  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit;  let  the 
fruit  stand  2  or  3  hours  covered  with  the  sugar  in  the  preserving 
kettle;  then  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  fill  into  jars  and  seal. 

Raspberries  are  nice  put  up  with  currant  juice;  allow  1  cup  cur- 
rant juice  and  1  cup  sugar  to  each  quart  of  raspberries,  add  the  juice 
and  sugar  to  the  berries,  bring  to  the  boil  and  put  in  jars.  Bed 
rasjpberries  and  red  curranis  are  also  very  nice  canned  together  half 
and  half. 

Dewberries  and  Elderberries  can  be  put  up  like  currants,  but  allow 
i  lb.  sugar  for  1  lb.  fruit. 

The  Dewbekky  belongs  to  the  same  species  as  the 
raspberry  and  blackberry  Its  composition  is  about  the 
same,  and  it  can  be  used  like  them  for  pies,  pudding  or 
jam.     It  is  a  very  wholesome  fruit. 

CANNING  DAMSONS.— Allow  |  lb.  sugar 
to  1  lb.  fruit;  place  alternate  layers  of  sugar 
and  plums  in  a  preserving  kettle,  first  pricking 
the  plums  to  prevent  their  breaking;  let  it  stand 
1  or  2  hours  at  the  back  of  the  stove,  then 
heat    gradually  just   to   the   boiling  point,  fill 

.      ,         .  -I  1  ^'HE    DEWBEBBY. 

into  jars  and  seal. 

Greengages  or  Plums  of  any  kind,  can  be  canned  the  same  way, 
but  allow  f  lb.  of  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit.  They  can  be  allowed  to  stand 
in  alternate  layers  of  plums  and  sugar  over  night  if  desired;  the  next 
day  bring  to  a  boil  and  can. 

GOOSEBERRIES These  when  ripe  can  be  put  up  like  currants, 

allowing  ^  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  gooseberries.  Green  gooseberries  are 
best  put  up  by  the  "  Cold  Process"  (which  see). 

CANNING  PEARS.— Steam  them  until  tender  in  a  steamer; 
then  put  them  into  jars  and  fill  with  boiling  syrup,  holding  in  solu- 
tion for  each  jar  ^  teaspoon  of  tartaric  acid  dissolved  in  a  little  water. 
This  acid  gives  a  piquant  flavor  to  the  otherwise  sweet  or  insipid 
fruit,  and  is  harmless. 


522  CANNING  FRUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC. 

RHUBARB. — The  simplest  and  best  method  for  this  is  by  the 
"Cold  Process  "  (which  see). 

CANNING  QUINCES. — Pare,  quarter,  core,  and  let  them  simmer 
merely,  in  water  until  tender;  then  drain  them  from  the  water,  put 
them  into  the  hot  syrup  (allow  ^  lb.  sugar  and  1  cup  water  to  1  lb. 
quinces),  let  simmer  10  minutes  (at  170°)  and  put  into  jars.  The 
core,  seeds  and  parings  can  be  made  into  jelly. 

CANNING  GRAPES — Grapes  may  be  canned  whole  without  the 
usual  process  of  scalding.  Heat  the  jars  very  hot  by  steaming  them 
over  water  brought  gradually  from  tepid  to  boiling  heat,  or  by 
placing  them  in  the  oven  on  several  thicknesses  of  paper,  and  increas- 
ing the  heat  gradually.  Wring  a  towel  from  hot  water  and  swathe 
the  cans;  then  fill  them  with  the  cold  grapes,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  seal,  and  let  stand  10  minutes;  then  take  off  the  covers,  pour 
off  the  water,  and  cover  with  boiling  syrup  sweetened  to  taste,  and 
seal.  The  skins  will  not  break,  and  the  fruit  will  have  a  very  differ- 
ent flavor  from  seeded  grapes. 

Blackberries,  Huckleberries,  Juaeberries  and  Rasp- 
berries may  be  canned  as  directed  for  grapes. 

The  Junebekby. — This  fruit,  as  its  name  indicates, 
appears  in  June.  It  has  a  mild  sub=acid  flavor,  approach- 
ing that  of  the  huckleberry.  It  may  be  served  with  sugar 
and  cream  when  eaten  for  dessert. 

STRAWBERRIES.— To  preserve  the  color 
and  flavor  of  strawberries  requires  care.  They 
should  go  directly  from  the  field  or  garden  to  the 
preserving  kettle— even  washing  them  injures  their  keeping  qualities. 
Use  ^  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit.  Place  alternate  layers  of  sugar  and 
berries  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  let  stand  1  hour;  then  heat  slowly 
just  to  the  boiling  point;  fill  into  jars  and  seal  hot. 

CANNING  APRICOTS.— Pack  them  whole  into  the  jars,  pack- 
ing them  full,  and  as  closely  as  possible  without  mashing  or  pressing 
the  fruit;  fill  the  jars  with  syrup  up  to  the  shoulder,  put  on  the 
cover  loosely,  and  set  them  in  a  wash=boiler  so  that  they  do  not 
touch  the  metal  bottom,  as  directed  in  the  introduction  to  this  chap- 
ter, and  fill  water  around  them  up  to  their  necks;  put  on  the  cover, 
bring  it  to  a  boil,  and  keep  it  boiling  12  to  15  minutes,  so  that  the 
fruit  in  the  jar  may  be  heated  clear  through;  then  remove  from  the 
stove,  fill  1  jar  at  a  time  with  hot  syrup  (have  some  surplus  syrup 
ready,  and  bring  it  to  a  boil  at  the  same  time  as  the  fruit),  screw  on 


JUNEBEBBY. 


CANNING  FRUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  523 

the  cover,  set  it  back  in  the  water,  and  let  all  cool  together.  Prac- 
tically this  is  a  very  good  method,  as  it  kills  all  germs,  without 
overcooking  the  fruit. 

Cherries;  put  up  like  apricots;  boil  10  minutes. 

Nectarines;  put  up  like  apricots;  boil  12 
minutes. 

Plums;  put  up  same  way;  boil  10  minutes. 

Strawberries;  put  up  same  way;  boil  8  min- 
utes. , 

Peaches  can  be  put  up  the  same  way,  but  they 
should  be  pared  and  halved;  if  2  or  3  kernels  are 
put  in  the  center  of  each  I'ar  they  will  flavor  all  the 

p        .,     .  .  1        1    •  1  T  1    1  1  NEOTAKINE. 

rruit  m  it;  and  this  should  be  done,  as  they  lack 
flavor  without  the  kernels. 

Pineapples  can  be  put  up  in  the  same  way,  but  they  should  be  first 
pared  and  sliced,  using  a  silver  knife.     Boil  ^  hour. 

CANNED  CORN. — Select  young  tender  ears,  cut  the  corn  care- 
fully from  the  cob  with  a  very  sharp  knife,  and  scrape  the  cob  with 
the  back  of  a  knife  to  secure  the  milk.  Dissolve  1  oz.  of  druggist's 
pure  tartaric  acid  in  a  large  teacup  of  warm  water,  and  use  ^  of  this 
for  every  4  quarts  of  corn;  to  be  exact,  measure  by  tablespoons. 
Stir  the  required  amount  into  the  corn,  add  2  teacups  of  hot  water, 
and  cook  15  minutes.  Stir  often  and  thoroughly  while  cooking;  then 
can  in  the  usual  way.  On  opening  for  use,  to  each  quart  add  a 
level  teaspoon  of  soda  (to  neutralize  the  acid),  cook  5  minutes 
and  season  to  taste,  being  careful  to  add  a  little  sugar.  Should  the 
corn  turn  yellow  on  adding  the  soda,  add  a  very  little  more  acid 
water  (some  may  be  kept  corked);  should  there  be  a  slight  acid 
taste,  put  in  a  little  more  soda.  If  the  acid  is  impure,  or  too  much  is 
used,  crystals  will  form. 

Canned  Corn  No.  2. — Another  method  is  to  crowd  corn  cut  from 
the  cob  into  glass  jars,  seal  moderately  tight,  set  them  into  cold 
water,  bring  it  to  the  boil,  and  then  boil  3  hours;  then  loosen  the  cov- 
ers an  instant,  seal  again,  and  cook  1  hour;  then  remove  from  the  fire. 
Tighten  the  covers  occasionally  as  the  cans  cool.  Corn  i3ut  up  this 
way  keeps  perfectly,  but  it  is  not  as  fresh  as  that  put  up  with  acid, 
and  the  process  is  more  tedious.  In  serving  this  corn  all  that  it 
needs  is  to  get  it  thoroughly  hot,  and  add  a  little  milk  or  cream, 
butter  and  seasoning;  further  cooking  toughens  it. 

CANNED  PEAS — Shell  them,  and  pack  closely  in  cans;  add  to 
each  quart  1  teaspoon  salt  and  1  teaspoon  sugar  dissolved  in  a  little 


524  CANNING  FRUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC. 

water;  fill  them  full  of  water,  put  on  the  covers,  and  proceed  as 
directed  for  apricots,  but  keep^  the  water  boiling  3  hours;  fill  hot 
water  into  the  boiler,  as  that  in  it  cooks  away;  when  done,  screw 
down  the  tops,  and  let  them  cool. 

ASPARAGUS. — Put  it  up  as  directed  above 
for  peas,  but  omit  the  sugar  and  salt, 

LIMA  BEANS. — Treat  as  directed  above  for 
peas,  but  omit  the  sugar, 

STRING  BEANS.— Either  green  or  cream 
beans  can  be  put  up  as  directed  above  for  peas. 
String  them,  cut  into  inch  lengths,  put  into  cans, 
add  to  each  quart  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  continue 
as  directed  for  peas. 

String  Beans  No.  2.— String  the  beans  and   re-  aspaeagus. 

move  the  stem  end.  Boil  them  in  water  until 
about  half  tender,  then  to  each  4  quarts  of  beans  add  ^  pint  of  salt; 
boil  10  minutes,  put  in  cans,  cover  well  with  the  liquor  in  which 
they  were  boiled  and  seal.  To  use,  drain,  cook  in  a  little  water,  and 
season  to  taste  with  cream  or  butter.  A  very  little  white  sugar 
added  to  the  seasoning  is  an  improvement. 

String  Beans  No.  3. — Another  method  is  to  boil  the  beans  in 
slightly  salted  water  until  they  are  tender,  but  not  until  they 
break;  then  drain  quickly  and  can,  covering  them  with  weak  boil- 
ing vinegar,  or  vinegar  and  water.  To  use,  drain  them,  soak  in 
warm  water  15  minutes,  heat  5  minutes,  and  season  with  butter  and 
a  little  milk,  thickened  slightly  with  corn^starch. 

CANNING  CABBAGE — Slice  cabbage  when  it  comes  from  the 
pits  in  the  spring,  cook  it  in  very  little  water,  season  with  salt,  and 
can  boiling  hot. 

CANNING  CARROTS.— Boil  carrots  till  tender,  peel  and  slice, 
reheat  them  in  a  steamer  and  can,  covering  them  with  weak  boiling 
vinegar,  or  vinegar  and  water.  Use  them  as  a  garnish,  or  season 
with  cream  for  a  salad. 

CANNED  BEETS — Chop  beets  while  tender,  season  with  sweet- 
ened vinegar,  and  can  hot.     They  make  delicious  salad. 

PUMPKIN. — Scrape  out  the  seeds  after  cutting,  it  up,  and  either 
stew  or  bake  it  until  tender,  without  paring,  as  the  sweetest  part  lies 
next  the  rind;  when  baked,  remove  the  rind,  mash  with  the  potato 
masher,  put  it  in  jars  and  seal  while  hot.  Add  no  seasoning  until 
opened  for  use. 


CANNING  FRUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  525 

CANNED  SUCCOTASH.— Put  lima  beana  in  salted  water,  and 
cook  nearly  enough  for  table  use;  take  green  corn  on  the  ^ cob,  and 
boil  until  when  a  grain  is  cut  no  milk  flows,  then  cut  it  from  the  cob, 
and  mix  with  the  lima  beans,  using  1  measure  of  beans  to  2  measures 
of  corn;  cover  them  with  boiling  water,  bring  to  a  boil,  and  fill  them 
into  glass  jars.  String  beans  can  be  used  instead  of  lima  beans,  but 
cut  them  into  1  inch  lengths.  To  use  this  succotash,  drain  off  the 
liquor  and  add  butter,  milk  and  flour  the  same  as  for  fresh  succotash. 

CANNED  TOMATOES  ( IT/ioZe).— Select  good  small  ones,  re- 
jecting all  that  are  soft  or  spotted;  put  them  whole  into  the  cans 
without  peeling,  fill  with  cold  water,  and  proceed  as  directed  for 
peas,  but  omit  the  salt  and  sugar,  and  boil  only  -|  hour. 

Canned  Tomatoes  No.  2. — Scald  and  skin  them;  bring  them  gradu- 
ally to  a  boil  in  the  preserving  kettle,  and  let  them  simmer  merely  -^- 
hour  (at  170°);  put  into  the  cans  while  hot,  and  seal. 

Canned  Tomatoes  No.  3. — Select  the  tomatoes  before  they  are  ripe. 
As  soon  as  they  are  gathered  from  the  vines  remove  the  skins,  cut 
them  in  small  pieces  and  drain;  boil  them  20  minutes,  stirring  often, 
and  adding  salt  freely  while  boiling.  Can  in  the  usual  way.  One 
can  determine  by  tasting  just  how  much  salt  can  be  used.  They  are 
less  likely  to  sour  when  salt  is  used. 

Canned  Tomatoes  are  nice  stewed  and  baked  in  alternate  layers 
with  boiled  rice  or  boiled  macaroni,  seasoning  the  layers  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt. 

CANNED  TOMATOES  WITH  CORN — Boil  the  corn  on  the 
cob  the  same  as  for  table  use,  and  cut  it  off  while  hot;  have  tomatoes 
skinned  and  rubbed  to  a  smooth  pulp;  put  2  parts  tomatoes  to  1  part 
corn,  salt  as  for  the  table,  bring  to  a  hard  boil,  and  can  quickly. 

CANNED  BEANS  WITH  ACID — Cook  the  beans  until  done; 
then  add  for  each  pint  of  beans  1  tablespoon  of  a  solution  made  by 
dissolving  1^  oz.  tartaric  acid  in  1  cup  water;  can  at  once  while  hot. 
To  use,  to  each  quart  of  beans  add  ^  teaspoon  of  soda  to  neutralize 
the  acid,  and  let  stand  a  little  while  before  cooking.  Then  season 
and  serve.  If  there  is  a  slightly  acid  taste  use  a  little  more  soda;  if 
too  much  soda  is  used  add  a  trifle  more  acid. 

Peas  oan  be  put  up  the  same  way. 

FRUIT    JUICES Select   the  best  fruit,  squeeze  out  the  juice, 

strain  it  through  fine  muslin  (4  thicknesses)  or  through  flannel 
cloth,  add  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  |  lb.  sugar  to  1  quart  of  juice, 
and  bring  to  a  boil;  use  an  earthen  or  porcelaindined  kettle,  remove 
all  scum  which  rises,  and  put  while  hot  into  small  bottles,  and 
keep  closely  corked;  or  it  can  be  kept  ia  Mason  jars. 


626  CANNING  FRUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC. 

When  canning  fruit  the  juice  remaining  can  be  bottled  in  the 
same  manner.  For  pudding  sauces,  etc.,  these  can  be  used  in  place 
of  wines  and  intoxicating  liquors,  as  we  have  elsewhere  stated  in 
speaking  of  intoxicating  liquors;  they  can  also  be  used  for  water  ices 
and  summer  beverages. 

Fruit  jui-ces  can  also  be  put  up  without  the  use  of  sugar;  strain 
the  juice,  and  fill  it  into  the  bottles  to  the  bottom  of  the  neck  only; 
then  cork  securely,  wire  the  corks  down,  and  set  the  bottles  into 
water  up  to  the  neck;  let  it  boil  ^  hour,  then  take  from  the  stove,  let 
them  stand  in  the  water  till  cold,  and  seal  the  corks.  Juices  put  up 
this  way  can  be  used  like  fresh  juices,  but  when  exposed  to  the  air 
they  spoil  quickly,  so  that  all  must  be  used  at  once  when  a  bottle  is 
opened.     Small  bottles  are  therefore  best. 

CANNING   WITHOUT   SYRUP. 

Fruit  can  be  put  up  much  as  directed  for  apricots,  but  without 
using  any  syrup.  The  fruit  should  not  be  very  ripe  when  picked; 
fill  wide=mouthed  bottles  as  full  as  they  will  hold,  cork  and  seal  each 
one  tightly,  surround  it  with  water  and  boil  as  there  directed;  then 
remove  from  the  stove  and  let  them  cool  standing  in  the  water,  tight- 
ening the  covers  occasionally.  It  will  be  found  to  nearly  equal  fresh 
fruit  when  opened,  and  can  be  used  like  it.  Apricots,  cherries, 
gooseberries,  sliced  pineapple,  plums,  and  other  fruit  can  be  put  up 
thus. 

CANNING  BY  THE  COLD  PROCESS. 

Many  fruits  may  be  canned  by  what  is  termed  the  "  Cold  Pro- 
cess." It  is  best  to  boil  the  water  used  for  this  purpose,  to  kill  all 
germs  in, it;  then  let  it  get  cold  before  using  it. 

Green   Currants   and    Green    Gooseberries 

To  can  them  in  this  manner  fill  jars  with  the 
green  fruit,  shaking  it  well  together ;  j^ZZ  with 
water  which  has  been  boiled  and  allowed  to 
get  perfectly  cold;  seal,  wrap  each  jar  in  pa 
per,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

The  Cukbant  is  supposed  to  be  a  native  of  North- 
ern Europe,  and  did  not  attract  much  attention  till 
■within  the  last  1  jO  years.  It  is  not  mentioned  by  the 
ancient  Greek  and  Roman  writers.  The  red,  white  and 
black,  all  belong  to  the  same  species  as  the  goose- 
berry, and  their  composition  is  nearly  the  same.  It  is  white  cukeant. 
a  wholesome  and  useful  fruit.  Its  acid  is  principally 
citric  and  malic. 

Grapes  (Cold  Process).— Remove  them  from  the  large  clusters  in 
smaller  clusters  of  2  or  3,  being  very  careful  indeed  that  the  stem  of 


CANNING  FRUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  527 

each  grape  is  in  no  wise  loosened  from  the  fruit;  fill  the  jars  with 
these  clusters,  or  with  the  single  grapes  if  preferred,  with  the  stems 
left  entire  or  partly  clipped;  when  full  (do  not  shake,  as  the  success 
depends  upon  the  stem  adhering  to  the  fruit)  immerse  the  jar  in  a 
pail  of  water  which  has  been  boiled  and  become  cold;  when  the  jar  is 
quite  full  of  water  screw  on  the  top  while  under  water. 

Cherries  (Cold  Process) — The  stems  of  cherries  may  be  clipped 
and  the  fruit  canned  in  the  same  manner  as  grapes.  It  is  more  diffi- 
cult to  prepare  cherries,  as  they  loosen  so  easily  from  the  stem. 

Canned  Peaches  (Cold  Process).— Pare  and  halve  the  fruit,  fill  a  jar 
with,  it,  pacJcing  closehj,  and  fill  the  jar  with  water  as  for  currants; 
cover  and  let  stand  6  or  8  hours  for  the  water  to  work  its  way  into  all 
openings;  then  fill  in  water  to  take  the  place  of  that  which  has 
worked  in,  and  seal.  Thus  put  up,  all  the  freshness  and  flavor  of  the 
fruit  is  retained.  Instead  of  the  water  cold  syrup  can  be  used,  but 
the  natural  flavor  is  best  retained  without  any  sweetening. 

Canned  Rhubarb  (Cold  Process).— Take  fresh  green  stalks,  peel  and 
slice  as  if  for  pies;  then  take  fruit  jars  and  pack  this  in  up  to  the 
necks,  and  then  fill  the  jars  with  cold  water;  now  seal  up  air  tight 
and  it  will  keep  any  number  of  months.  To  see  if  the  jars  are  tight 
set  them  bottom  up  for  a  little  while  and  see  if  any  water  escapes;  if 
not,  they  are  all  right.  To  use  it,  pour  off  the  water  and  use  like 
fresh  pieplant;  but  to  sweeten  it,  not  over  ^  the  sugar  ordinarily  used 
will  be  needed,  as  the  water  will  extract  some  of  the  acid.  The 
method  is  simple,  and  it  will  be  equal  to  fresh  pieplant  when  used. 

Strawberries  Canned  Cold. — To  each  lb.  of  fruit  allow  1  lb.  sugar; 
dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  least  possible  quantity  of  water,  put  in  the 
strawberries  and  let  both  boil  up  together  once 
thoroughly;  then  put  the  fruit  and  syrup  in  deep 
earthen  pie  plates,  and  let  stand  in  the  sun  24 
hours  covered  with  mosquito  netting;  or  dry  it  in 
a  cool  oven;  then  can  cold.     Delicious. 

Currants,  Raspberries,  Huckleberries  and  other  small 
fruit  may  be  canned  the  same  way. 

The  Huoklebekey  is  native  to  the  northern  parts  of 
the  world.  It  has  a  spicy,  rather  sweetish  taste  and  is 
very  wholesome.  It  contains  about  Tir*  water,  6.7^  sugar 
and  1.3^  free  acid.     It  belongs  to  the  same  species  as  the  bil-  huoklkbkbby. 

berry  and  blueberry. 

CANNING    MEAT. 

Do  not  leave  meat  designed  for  canning  exposed  to  the  air;  as 
soon  as  it  is  thoroughly  cold,  after  killing,  prepare  it  by  selecting 


528  CANNING  FEUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC. 

pieces  free  from  blood.  Remove  all  bone,  gristle  and  inferior  pieces, 
and  cut  it  into  suitable  pieces  for  the  table,  having  them  rather  thin 
than  otherwise.  On  the  bottom  of  a  Mason's  self=sealing  can  put  a 
little  salt,  pepper,  and  a  dash  of  pulverized,  sifted  saltpetre;  then  put 
in  a  layer  of  meat,  and  on  that  sprinkle  more  of  the  same  seasoning, 
and  so  on  alternately,  filling  the  can  to  within  an  inch  of  the  top, 
pressing  the  layers  down  firmly  while  packing  that  there  may  be  no 
air  spaces.  On  the  top  layer  use  the  seasoning  more  freely.  Fill 
the  can  with  lard,  heated  sufficiently  to  run  smoothly.  Cover  with  a 
paper  bag,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  It  will  keei3  from 
January  to  July. 

Canned  Meat  No.  2 — Take  fresh  beef  and  boil  it  until  all  the 
bones  will  come  out;  then  take  the  meat  out,  remove  the  bones  and 
cut  in  short  lengths,  returning  it  to  the  liquor;  season  to  taste  with 
salt,  pepper,  a  little  mace,  cloves  and  chopped  onions,  if  liked.  Take 
the  meat  from  the  liquor  with  a  wire  dipper,  fill  it  into  the  cans, 
pour  on  the  boiling  liquor,  and  seal  tight.  Keep  in  a  dark,  cool 
place. 

CANNED  CORN  BEEF — Before  the  brine  sours  or  changes  in 
the  least,  boil  the  meat  till  tender;  then  remove  the  bone,  gristle,  and 
white  fiber,  return  to  the  boiling  liquor,  and  when  hot,  can  it,  press- 
ing it  compactly;  cover  it  well  with  the  boiling  hot  liquor  and  seal 
Keep  the  cans  in  paper  bags  in  a  cool  cellar.  Examine  on  the 
approach  of  warm  weather,  and  if  on  shaking  the  cans  any  bubbles 
arise,  open  such  cans  and  use  the  meat  at  once. 

Pickled  Tongue  is  also  very  nice  put  up  in  this  way. 

Mince  and  Sausage  Meat  must  be  put  into  cans  while  at  boiling 
keat,  if  thus  preserved. 

Pbesebvino  Meats. — All  the  resources  of  science  have  been  called  into  play  to 
devise  means  to  preserve  meat  so  that  the  surplus  of  one  region  can  be  trans- 
ported unimpaired  to  supply  the  needs  of  another  region  less  bountifully  supplied. 
The  4  most  important  methods  which  have  been  devised  are  by  drying,  by  cold,  by 
heating  and  excluding  the  air,  and  by  the  use  of  antiseptics.  They  are  all  based 
on  killing  or  preventing  the  development  of  the  germs  (bacteria)  which  cause 
putrefaction.  Drying  preserves  meat  and  vegetables  because  the  low  forms  of  life, 
as  well  as  the  higher,  cannot  develop  without  a  certain  amount  of  moisture,  but  the 
flavor  and  other  qualities  of  meat  are  not  improved  by  drying.  Freezing  preserves 
the  meat  because  cold  checks  the  growth  of  all  micro=crganisms.  In  canning,  the 
usual  method  is  to  heat  the  article  enough  to  kill  all  the  germs,  and  then  seal  it  up  so 
tightly  that  no  more  can  enter.  Antiseptics,  like  salt,  sugar,  etc.,  act  by  preventing 
the  development  of  the  micro=organisms  which  cause  decay.  The  action  of  salt  is 
to  draw  the  juices  and  many  of  the  nutritive  elements  out  of  the  meat,  and  whei-. 
they  are  once  drawn  out  they  can  never  be  restored  again,  so  that  salted  meat  is 
never  as  nutritious  as  fresh  meat.  The  salt  also  hardens  the  fiber  of  the  meat  and 
makes  it  less  digestible.     Salt  has  a  whitening  effect  on  the  meat  also,  and  to 


CANNING  FKUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  529 

tjonnteract  that,  saltpetre  is  often  added,  bnt  the  latter  tends  to  make  the  meat 
hard,  dry  and  indigestible,  and  therefore  a  little  cochineal  is  sometimes  used  for 
coloring  instead. 

/v4 


PICKLES,  CATSUPS,  SOYS,  ETC. 

\  I  /HE  custom  of  pickling  seems  to  have  been  practiced  since 
A  I  /  very  early  times,  the  ancient  Greeks  and  Komans  highly 
@J  I  ^  esteeming  their  pickles  made  from  herbs,  roots  and  vegeta- 
bles preserved  by  vinegar. 

All  vegetables  and  fruit  used  for  pickles  should  be  sound,  and 
not  over^ripe.     Fruits  can  be  pickled  as  well  as  vegetables. 

The  Vinegar. — Use  only  pure  vinegar  in  making  pickles,  catsups 
and  sauces.  Cider  vinegar  is  usually  considered  about  the  best  for 
this  purpose.  As  vinegar  is  weakened  by  boiling,  it  should  be  merely 
brought  to  the  scalding  point  and  then  x)oured  on  the  pickles;  if  not 
scalded  but  put  on  raw,  however,  it  will  not  keep  well.  Have  the 
vinegar  strong  or  the  pickles  will  seem  "insipid,"  If  the  strength 
of  the  vinegar  is  lost,  replace  it  with  some  which  is  strong,  and  boil- 
ing hot  when  poured  on.  Adding  a  little  horseradish  will  help  to 
keep  up  the  life  of  the  vinegar,  but  use  it  sparingly;  1  or  2  clusters 
of  green  grapes  serve  the  same  purpose.  To  heat  vinegar,  a  good  way 
is  to  put  it  in  a  stone  jar  in  a  sauce=pan,  with  hot  water  around  it,  and 
as  soon  as  it  reaches  the  boiling  point  remove  from  the  fire,  as 
boiling  reduces  both  its  strengh  and  flavor. 

Vinegar  can  be  kept  from  molding  by  putting  into  each  jar  some 
horseradish,  mustard  seed  or  nasturtiums,  but  use  only  a  little. 

Using  Alum  and  Parboiiing.^If  articles  to  be  pickled  are  parboiled  or 
scalded  they  will  absorb  the  vinegar  more  readily,  but  they  will  not 
be  so  crisp.  Cucumbers  and  gherkins  are  made  crisp  and  green  by 
dissolving  a  small  lumj)  of  alum  in  the  vinegar  the  first  time  it  is 
scalded,  but  it  is  injurious  to  the  health  if  too  much  is  used. 

Coloring  Pickles. — A  green  color  can  easily  be  obtained,  if  desired, 
by  soaking  cabbage  or  vine  leaves  or  the  leaves  of  parsley  or  spinach 
in  the  vinegar,  and  the  color  thus  obtained  is  harmless.  Or  to  have 
cucumbers  green  put  them  into  cold  vinegar  and  heat  them  slowly 
over  a  moderate  fire  until  they  become  green, 

A  Caution. — •  Bright  green  pickles  have  been  popular,  merely  because  of  their 
looks.  To  gratify  this  taste  pickles  have  been  boiled  in  copper  kettles  with  vine- 
gar and  a  little  alum.  The  acetic  acid  of  the  vinegar  acts  on  the  copper  and  forms 
acetate  of  copper,  which  is  commonly  and  well  known  as  verdigris.  This  pene- 
trates the  pickles  and  colors  them  green,  but  it  should  be  understood  that  this 
acetate  of  copper  (verdigris)  is  really  a  most  active  poison,  and  that  pickles  thus 
prepared  are  poisonous  and  unhealthy. 

630 


SOUR  PICKLES  531 

Spices. — Use  spices  judiciously  so  that  all  combine  into  a  pleasant 
flavor  without  having  one  flavor  predominate  over  all  the  others,  and 
do  not  flavor  so  strongly  as  to  entirely  disguise  the  original  flavor  of 
the  article  pickled. 

Brine. — The  rule  for  the  brine  used  for  x>ickles  is  "strong 
enough  to  float  an  egg."  The  proportion  is  about  1  quart  of  water 
to  1  cup  salt. 

Tlie  Kettle,  etc.— Use  porcelain4ined  or  granite  kettles  for  putting 
up  pickles.  The  acid  in  vinegar  will  act  on  the  lead  in  tinned  ves- 
sels, and  produce  the  poisonous  acetate  of  lead,  and  in  brass  or  cop- 
per vessels  it  produces  the  poisonous  acetate  of  copper  {verdigris). 
As  the  mild  acids,  however,  do  not  affect  aluminum,  utensils  made 
of  that  metal  are  excellent  to  use  for  this  purpose. 

Use  wooden  spoons  instead  of  metal  spoons  or  forks.  If,  how- 
ever, any  metal  spoons  or  forks  are  used  have  them  either  of  alumi- 
num or  silver. 

Keeping  Piclcles. — Pickles  wiH  become  soft  and  spoil  if  exposed  to 
the  air,  so  that  they  should  always  be  kept  covered  with  vinegar; 
there  should  be  2  or  3  inches  of  vinegar  over  them;  keep  the 
jar  tightly  closed.  If  pickles  show  signs  at  any  time  of  becoming 
moldy  or  soft,  pour  off  the  vinegar,  scald  it,  skim,  add  to  each  gal- 
lon of  vinegar  1  handful  of  sugar,  and  pour  it  back  on  again,  boil- 
ing hot.  The  sugar  will  form  fresh  vinegar  and  so  strengthen  the 
old.  If  pickles  are  put  in  jars  and  sealed  while  hot,  they  keep  bet- 
ter than  in  any  other  way. 

Pickles  should  be  kept  in  a  dry,  cool  place,  but  they  will  be 
spoiled  if  they  freeze.  They  are  best  kept  in  stone  or  glass;  never 
use  glazed  jars,  as  the  salt  and  vinegar  will  dissolve  out  the  little  lead 
which  is  used  in  glazing,  and  form  the  poisonous  acetate  of  lead.  No 
vessel  which  has  held  grease  should  be  used  for  keeping  pickles. 

Pickles  are  an  agreeable  addition  to  our  food,  but  they  should  be 
eaten  sparingly,  as  they  are  not  easily  digested. 


SOUR  PICKLES. 

PICKLED  BEETS — (1)  Wash  them,  and  be  careful  not  to 
prick  the  outside  skin  or  they  will  lose  their  beautiful  color;  put 
them  into  boiling  water,  simmer  gently  until  -|  done  (about  1^ 
hours),  take  out  and  cool;  then  peel,  and  cut  into  slices  ^  inch 
thick.  Take  vinegar  enough  to  cover,  add  2  oz.  allspice,  and  2  oz. 
whole  pepper  to  each  gallon,  and  boil  5  minutes;  when  cold,  pour  it 


\i.rii  iiuKi . 


532    •  SOUR  PICKLES 

on  the  beets,  and  cover  closely.  They  can  be  used  in  a  week.  (2) 
Another  way  is  to  take  4  or  5  medium=sized  beets,  boil  them  soft, 
put  in  cold  water,  rub  oflp  the  skins,  wipe  dry,  cut  in  pieces,  and  chop 
finely  in  the  chopping  bowl;  add,  while  chopping,  an  even  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  sugar,  a  saltspoon  each  of  mustard  and  pepper;  pack  in- 
to a  salad  dish  or  bowl;  cover  with  cold  vinegar,  and  let  it  stand  until 
the  next  day  before  serving. 

Carrots  may  be  pickled  in  the  same  manner.  Few  fieople  know 
how  good  carrots  are  when  pickled. 

ARTICHOKES — Take  a  strong  brine 
and  boil  the  artichokes  in  it  2  or  3  minutes; 
then  drain  them  on  a  sieve,  and  put  in  jars 
when  cold.  Boil  some  nutmeg,  mace  and 
ginger  in  enough  vinegar  to  cover;  pour 
it  on  hot  and  seal  the  jars. 

BEANS — String  the  beans  and  boil 
until  tender,  putting  a  little  salt  in  the 
water;  then  drain  in  a  colander,  and 
when  cold  put  in  jars;  add  1  tablespoon 
of  horseradish,  sprinkle  with  cayenne  pep- 
per lightly,  and  cover  with  good  cider  vinegar. 

PICKLED  CABBAGE.— Slice  the  cabbage  fine,  and  cover  with 
boiling  water;  drain  off  the  water  when  cold.  Season  with  red  and 
black  pepper  in  equal  parts,  salt,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  and  grated 
horseradish.     Cover  with  strong  vinegar. 

PICKLED  CAULIFLOWER— Break  the  heads  into  small  pieces, 
and  boil  in  salt  and  water  10  or  15  minutes;  then  drain  carefully,  and 
place  in  jars  when  cold;  tie  white  mustard,  cloves,  allspice  and  pep- 
per in  a  bag,  put  it  in  vinegar  and  scald;  take  the  vinegar  from  the 
stove,  take  out  the  bag,  and  to  each  quart  add  ^  cup  sugar,  and  1 
tablesi3oon  of  mustard;  pour  it  over  the  cauliflower,  and  cover  tightly. 

CELERY  PICKLES. — Take  ^  gallon  of  chopped  celery,  the  same 
of  chopiDed  white  cabbage,  4  oz.  white  mustard  seed,  ^  oz.  ginger 
root,  2  tablespoons  salt,  ^  oz.  turmeric,  ^  cup  sugar,  |  gallon  cider 
vinegar;  let  all  simmer  gently  until  celery  and  cabbage  are  tender; 
then  put  in  jars. 

CHERRY  PICKLES — Take  large,  ripe  cherries,  leave  the  stems 
on,  and  put  them  whole  into  cans,  filling  them  only  §  full;  take 
good  cider  vinegar,  fill  the  cans  with  it  cold,  and  seal  without  heat- 
ing. 


SOUR  PICKLES  ^       533 

PICKLED  CORN — Select  good  corn  and  boil  it  on  the  cob; 
When  done  let  it  cool,  and  cut  it  from  the  cob;  then  pack  it  in  a 
jar  in  alternate  layers  of  salt  and  corn,  having  salt  at  the  bottom  and 
on  top;  then  spread  on  a  cloth,  lay  on  a  board,  and  weight  it  down. 
For  use,  soak  it  till  fresh,  in  water,  and  cook  or  heat  it.  Many  like 
it  better  this  way  than  when  canned. 

String  Beans  and  Lima  Beans  can  also  be  packed  in  salt;  after  being 
in  the  salt  2  days  they  can  be  used  at  any  time,  and  can  be  cooked 
like  green  vegetables,  but  while  boiling,  change  the  water  1  or  2 
times.     They  will  be  like  fresh  vegetables. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES.— Cut  cucumbers  from  the  vine  instead 
of  twisting  or  pulling  them  off,  as  that  injures  them.  Fill  a  jar  with 
cucumbers,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  with  a  little  salt;  let 
stand  6  hours  or  over  night,  and  then  put  them  into  cold  vinegar. 
•To  1  gallon  of  vinegar  add  1  cup  salt  and  1  tablespoon  pulverized 
alum,  and  scald  the  pickles  in  this  mixture;  pour  it  ofp,  and  pour  on 
new  vinegar,  with  spice,  red  peppers,  cinnamon,  root  ginger  and 
cloves. 

Cucumber  Pickles  No.  2. — Take  |  bushel  cucumbers,  and  soak  24 
to  36  hours  in  brine  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg;  then  take  them 
out,  wash,  and  cover  them  with  vinegar  and  water  (half  and  half) 
adding  alum  the  size  of  a  large  walnut;  let  soak  2  clays.  Then  take 
out,  put  in  jars,  and  put  1  green  pepper  in  each  large  jar.  Scald  2 
gallons  vinegar  with  3  lbs.  brown  sugar,  1  oz.  each  stick  cinnamon, 
whole  cloves,  and  whole  allspice,  and  pour  it  over  the  pickles.  They 
can  be  used  next  day,  and  are  fine. 

Cucumber  Pickles  No.  3. — Pick  when  2  or  3  inches  long,  no  larger^ 
Wash,  dry,  and  put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  glass  fruit  jar;  mix  1 
teaspoon  each  of  whole  cloves,  whole  pepper-corns,  allspice,  and  2 
teaspoons  of  stick  cinnamon  broken  fine;  sprinkle  the  cucumbers  in 
the  jar  with  this  mixture,  add  more  cucumbers,  then  more  spice,  and 
so  alternately  until  the  jar  is  full.  This  amount  of  spice  is  for  1 
quart  can.  Fill  the  can  with  strong  vinegar,  cold,  screw  on  the 
cover,  and  in  about  4  or  5  weeks  they  will  be  ready  for  use.  By  this 
method  one  can  pick  cucumbers  each  day,  using  ac  many  cans  as 
they  will  fill;  it  is  sure  and  easy,  as  there  is  no  trouble  salting,  boil- 
ing, etc. 

Cucumber  Pickles  No.  4. — Take  2  j)arts  soft  water,  and  1  part 
New  Orleans  molasses  or  sorghum;  put  it  in  a' jar  or  cask,  and  set  it 
in  the  sun  with  a  thin  cloth  and  board  covering  it;  the  board  should 
be  removed  during  the  day,  but  the  cloth  left  on  to  keep  out  insects. 
This  must  be  prepared  long  enough  to  get  sour  (say  4  weeks)  before 


534 


SOUK  PICKLES 


putting  in  cucumbers.  Set  it  in  a  cool  place  as  soon  as  you  begin  to 
put  in  cucumbers;  pick  and  put  some  in  each  day,  and  every  time 
you  put  in  cucumbers  add  a  little  molasses  to  keep  up  the  strength 
of  the  vinegar.  Lastly  add  5  or  6  lbs.  of  brown  sugar,  a  few  horse- 
radish roots  and  a  small  piece  of  alum.  Some  use  the  same  vinegar 
every  year;  strain  it,  and  add  molasses  as  the  cucumbers  are  put  in. 
It  saves  the  trouble  of  making  fresh  every  year. 

SALTING  CUCUMBERS — Wash  them,  and  put  first  a  layer  of 
salt,  then  a  layer  of  cucumbers,  and  so  on  alternately  until  the  jar  is 
full,  having  salt  on  top  and  keeping  all  down  with  a  weight.  They 
will  keep  this  way  2  or  3  years.  For  use,  freshen  them  by  soaking 
in  water  for  2  or  3  days,  changing  the  water  daily.  Scald  vinegar,  to 
which  is  added  spices,  and  a  little  sugar  if  desired,  and  pour  this  hot 
over  the  cucumbers.  A  cloth  can  be  laid  over  salted  cucumbers, 
under  the  weight,  and  the  scum  that  arises  may  be  removed  by 
taking  off  the  cloth  and  rinsing  it.  Horseradish  tops  or  cabbage 
leaves  placed  under  the  cloth  will  prevent  molding. 

LARGE  CUCUMBER  PICKLES.— Very  nice  pickles  may  be 
made  with  the  large  cucumbers  that  would  be  considered  unfit  for 
use  by  some  people.  Peel  them,  and  take  out  the  seeds  and  soft 
part;  cut  them  the  long  way  of  the  cucumber,  cover  them  with  cold 
vinegar,  and  let  them  stand  one  day  and  night;  drain  them  well  and 
put  on  fresh  vinegar,  with  2  lbs.  sugar;  put  1  oz.  cassia  buds  in  a 
quart  of  vinegar  and  add  to  the  pickles.  Boil  for  20  minutes  then 
put  them  away  in  jars,  well  covered. 

PICKLED  GHERKINS — Put  them  in 
strong  brine  until  they  are  yellow;  then  remove 
them,  and  pour  on  hot,  spiced  vinegar,  and  keep 
them  in  a  warm  place  until  they  turn  green;  take 
them  out,  and  cover  with  good  vinegar,  boiling 
hot  and  spiced  to  taste. 

Ghebkins  are  young  cucumbers,  gathered  before  they 
are  mature,  and  they  are  used  for  nothing  but  pickling;  as 
pickles,  however,  they  are  generally  liked.  They  should 
not  be  gathered  too  young,  or  their  flavor  will  not  be  suf- 
ficiently developed. 

PICKLED  EGGS— Boil  eggs  hard,  take  off 
the   shells,   and  put  them  in  jars;  take  vinegar 
enough  to  cover,  season  it  well  with  cloves,  all- 
spice and  whole  peppers,  and  a  little  ginger  tied  in  a  muslin  bag; 
bring  it  to  a  boil,  and  pour  it  hot  on  the  eggs;  close  the  jars  tightly 
when  cold.     They  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  fortnight. 


SOUR  PICKLES  I    535 

SPICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLES— Soak '  2  quarts  of  salted 
pickles  in  cold  water  until  quite  fresh — it  may  take  2  days;  be  sure 
and  change  the  water  2  or  3  times  a  day;  when  fresh,  wipe  dry  and 
pack  closely  in  jars.  Take  1  quart  vinegar,  1|-  cups  brown  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  cinnamon,  and  1  teaspoon  cloves  tied  in  a  bag;  bring  to  a 
boil,  and  turn  it  over  the  pickles  while  hot. 

JERSEY  PICKLES— Take  one  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  3  pep- 
pers, 8  tablespoons  salt,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  cloves,  3  heaping  tea- 
spoons cinnamon,  4  cups  sugar,  2  cups  vinegar;  boil  from  1^  to  2 
hours. 

PICKLED  LEMONS— (1)  Select  12  small  lemons  with  thick 
skins;  cut  into  them  nearly  to  the  center,  but  not  quite  enough  so 
that  they  fall  apart;  fill  the  openings  with  salt,  and  pack  them  in  an 
earthen  dish  on  end;  set  away,  and  in  about  4  days  there  will  be 
brine  enough  to  partly  cover  them;  turn  them  over,  repeating  each 
day  for  4  days,  so  that  all  parts  may  soak  in  the  brine;  then  drain 
them  out  and  put  in  glass  jars.  Add  enough  cider  vinegar  to  cover 
the  fruit,  a  little  crushed  ginger  root  and  a  Jamaica  pepper  if  de- 
sired, or  other  spice;  bring  it  slowly  to  a  boil,  skim,  and  pour  it  on 
the  fruit  when  cold.  (2)  Another  way  is  to  wash  2  doz.  lemons,  cut 
across  or  through  the  ends  of  each  about  2  inches  and  pack  with  the 
cut  end  down  in  a  stone  jar;  add  4  quarts  vinegar,  ^  lb.  mustard=^seed, 
f  lb.  salt,  ^  oz.  each  of  cayenne  pepper,  cloves,  and  nutmeg,  and  1 
small  onion;  cover  the  jar,  and  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and 
boil  all  day.  They  should  be  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a  fork 
easily. 

PICKLED  LIMES.— (1)  Take  12  limes,  make  incisions  into  the 
rinds  into  which  rub  salt,  put  them  on  end  in  an  earthen  dish,  and 
set  in  a  warm  place  4  or  5  days,  or  until  soft,  turning  them  over  1  or 
2  times,  and  put  them  in  glass  jars,  pouring  in  the  brine.  Take 
enough  vinegar  to  cover  them,  add  -J  oz.  whole  pepper,  and  2  oz.  each 
of  bruised  ginger  and  mustard=seed,  bring  to  a 
boil,  and  pour  on  them  while  hot.  When  cold,  seal 
the  jars.  (2)  Pick  limes  when  full  grown,  sound 
and  fresh,  and  put  them  at  once  into  brine  about 
as  strong  as  sea=water;  in  2  or  3  days  it  will  become 
bitter;  pour  it  off,  cover  with  fresh  brine,  and  re- 
peat about  3  times,  or  until  the  bitterness  is  ex- 
tracted. Cover  with  fresh  brine,  and  they  will 
keep  indefinitely  and  can  be  shipped,  being  always  the  hme. 

saleable  barreled  thus. 


536  -       SOUR  PICKLES  "^ 

The  lime  is  a  native  of  India  and  China.  In  the  West  Indies  it  is  grown  for 
hedges.  The  fruit  is  similar  to  the  lemon,  but  smaller.  It  has  a  thin,  smooth 
rind  and  a  very  acid  juice  which  some  prefer  to  that  of  the  lemon. 

PICKLED  MARTYNI AS.— Choose  the  small,  tender  martynias; 
wash  and  brush  them  carefully;  soak  them  in  a  strong  brine  for  5 
days,  then  soak  them  in  fresh  water  until  the  salty  taste  is  nearly 
gone;  next  wipe  them  dry;  put  them  in  a  jar,  and  pour  over  them 
well  spiced  hot  vinegar,  flavored  with  onions  if  liked. 

MANGO  PICKLES — Pick  green  cantelope  melons  when  hall' 
grown  (about  the  size  of  a  pint  bowl);  cut  out  1  lobe,  carefully 
scrape  out  all  the  seeds,  return  the  lobe  and  tie  it  in  place;  put  15  of 
the  melons  in  a  brine  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg,  and  leave  6 
weeks,  keeping  them  well  under;  then  take  out,  soak  in  fresh  water 
24  hours,  then  remove,  wipe  dry,  and  fill  with  the  following  stuffing: 
Take  ^  lb.  scraped  horseradish,  ^  lb.  race  ginger,  scalded,  scraped 
and  chopped  fine,  2  nutmegs,  ^  oz.  mace,  1  oz.  whole  black  peppers; 
1  small  box  good  mustard,  1  oz.  turmeric,  12  large  onions  minced  very 
fine.  Pound  the  mace,  nutmegs  and  black  pepper  together,  and  mix 
all  the  ingredients  together  with  enough  salad  oil  to  make  it  into  a 
paste.  Stuff  each  melon  perfectly  full;  return  and  tie  the  lobe  in 
place  with  thread,  and  put  each  mango  when  stuffed  into  a  jar  large 
enough  to  hold  them  all.  Put  enough  strong  cider  vinegar  to  fill  the 
jar  into  a  preserving  kettle;  crack  and  add  ^  oz.  each  of  cloves, 
ground  ginger,  mace  and  allspice,  let  boil,  and  x)our  hot  over  the 
mangoes.  Keep  the  jar  closely  covered.  Made  in  the  fall  the  pick- 
les will  be  fit  to  eat  Christmas,  but  the  following  Christmas  they  will 
be  matchless,  their  perfection  increasing  with  age.  This  pickle  is 
the  most  elegant  made,  and  is  suitable  for  any  dinner  that  can  be 
served. 

MIXED  PICKLES.— Take  2  heads  of  cauliflower,  2  heads  cab- 
bage, 50  small  cucumbers,  8  small  carrots,  2  quarts  string  beans,  12 
sticks  of  celery,  6  red  peppers  (without  the  seeds)  and  3  green  pep- 
pers; chop  these  vegetables  separately,  and  let  them  soak  over  night 
in  salt  and  water;  in  the  morning  wash  and  drain  them.  Take  2 
grated  nutmegs,  3  teaspoons  each  of  mace  and  cinnamon,  tie  in  a 
muslin  bag,  and  put  into  vinegar  enough  to  cover  the  vegetables; 
scald  it,  pour  it  over  the  vegetables  hot,  put  in  jars  and  cover  closely. 

GREEN  PEPPER  MANGOES.— Take  green  peppers  which  are 
sound  and  firm  and  add  as  many  red  ones  for  appearance;  cut  off  the 
top,  extract  the  seeds,  put  into  a  strong  brine,  and  let  soak  21  hours; 
then  drain  them,  wipe,  and  fill  with  a  stuffing  made  of  ground  cloves, 


SOUK  PICKLES 


537 


OAPSIOUM. 


mustard  seed,  green  tomatoes  chopped,  cabbage  chopped,  and  salt, 
mixed  all  together;  sew  on  the  toj)s,  and  cover  them  with  strong,  hot 
vinegar  containing  1  cup  brown  sugar;  repeat  for  4  mornings,  and 
seal  up. 

The  Capsicum  family  (to  which  peppers  belong)  is  na- 
tive to  Asia  and  America.  Cayenne  pepper  is  made  from  the 
dried  pods  and  seeds  of  various  species  of  capsicum.  As  a 
condiment  it  is  wholesome  and  aids  digestion.  Althongh 
less  used  than  black  pepper  it  is  more  wholesome.  Chillies 
is  a  Mexican  name  signifying  pods. 

PEACH  MANGOES — Take  large,  fine,  free- 
stone peaches;  with  a  silver  knife  cut  a  hole  in  the 
side  just  large  enough  to  remove  the  stone,  take  it 
out,  put  back  the  piece,  tie  it  in,  and  put  the 
peaches  into  a  strong  brine;  leave  86  hours,  drain 
out,  and  let  them  lie  20  minutes  in  cold  water; 
wipe  carefully,  and  fill  the  inside  with  grated  horseradish  to  which  is 
added  a  little  celery  seed  and  crushed  ginger  root,  and  moistened 
with  vinegar.  Replace  the  piece  forming  the  opening,  sew  or  tie  it 
in  place  with  thread;  stand  them  closely  in  glass  jars,  and  cover  them 
with  boiling  hot  vinegar,  containing  1  cup  sugar  to  each  quart  of 
vinegar;  tie  up  when  cold.     They  can  be  used  in  8  days. 

PICKLED  MUSHROOMS.— Clean  carefully,  and  boil  a  few  min- 
utes in  salt  and  water;  drain,  and  dry  them  between  linen  cloths; 
put  into  jars,  and  cover  with  vinegar,  spiced  to  taste. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES — Chop  fine,  equal  quantities  of  cauli- 
flower, white  onions,  celery,  green  j)eppers  and  green  tomatoes;  pour 
on  a  scalding  hot  brine,  let  stand  over  night,  and  drain.  Take  f  gal- 
lon cider  vinegar,  1  cui3  sugar,  and  2  tablespoons  of  butter;  bring  to 
a  boil,  and  add  1  cup  flour,  6  tablesjDoons  ground  mustard,  \  oz.  tur- 
meric powder  wet  in  cold  vinegar;  pour  it  all,  scalding  hot,  over  the 
pickles. 

PICKLED  NASTURTIUMS.— Leave  about  1  inch  of  stem  on 
when  they  are  picked;  let  them  soak  in  strong 
brine  for  3  days;  drain,  and  soak  them  in  cold 
water  1  day;  draili,  put  in  jars,  and  pour  on 
boiling  vinegar  to  cover;  they  need  no  spices. 
They  can  be  used  in  a  month,  and  will  serve  in- 
stead of  capers  if  desired. 

The  Nastuktium  is  a  native  of  the  east.      It  belongs 
to  the  same  family  as  the  cresses.     The  leaves  are  some- 
times added  to  salads.     The  flowers  can  be  steeped  in  vin-  »,.c,a.rTT,-r,TT-..a 
egar,  thus  forming  nasturtium  vinegar. 


538  SOUE  PICKLES 

PICKLED  ONIONS.— (1)  Take  nice  onions,  peel  them,  put  in- 
to boiling  water,  and  let  them  stew  until  quite  clear;  then  remove 
them  quickly,  put  them  between  cloths  to  dry,  and  then  put  them  in 
glass  jars.  Take  good  vinegar,  put  in  ginger  and  whole  peppers, 
bring  to  a  boil,  and  when  cold  pour  over  the  onions,  and  tie  up 
closely.  (2)  Select  button  onions,  cover  with  scalding  hot  brine, 
and  leave  36  hours;  drain,  put  in  jars,  and  cover  with  vinegar,  jwured 
on  hot,  and  spiced  as  desired. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS — Take  1  quart  oyster  liquor,  7  table, 
spoons  good  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  each  of  allspice  and  white  pepper,  1 
tablespoon  of  salt  and  2  blades  of  mace;  into  this  put  1  quart  of  oys- 
ters, and  simmer  5  minutes;  take  them  out,  boil  the  liquor,  skim  it, 
and  pour  it  over  the  oysters;  can  them  while  hot  if  you  wish  to  keep 
them  some  time. 

PICKLED  PARSLEY — Prepare  a  brine  and  thoroughly  wash 
selected  parsley  in  it;  drain,  shake  dry,  i)ut  into  glass  jars,  cover  with 
cold  vinegar,  containing  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  horseradish  to  the 
quart,  and  tie  up.     It  can  be  used  for  garnishing. 

PICKLED  PEPPERS — Take  large  green  ones,  and  extract  the 
seeds  through  a  slit  cut  in  the  side,  but 
leaving  them  whole;  then  put  them  in  a 
strong  brine  for  2  days,  changing  it  once; 
then  put  them  in  cold  water  for  1  day; 
drain,  and  pour  on  boiling  hot,  a  solution 
of  -g  vinegar  and  ^  water;  when  cold,  drain 
them,  put  into  jars,  and  cover  with  strong 
cider  vinegar,  boiling  hot.  Tie  uj)  when 
cold.  They  are  sometimes  filled,  before 
being  put  into  the  jars,  with  a  stuffing 
made  of  cabbage  head,  chopped  fine,  sea- 
soned with  salt  and  white  mustard^seed  mixed  in  well;  then  sew  up, 
put  in  jars,  and  cover  with  cold  spiced  vinegar. 

PICCALILLI — Slice  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  add  1  cup  salt, 
cover  with  water  and  let  stand  24  hours;  then  drain  through  a  sieve, 
add  4  green  peppers  and  8  onions  and  chop  fine;  cover  with  vinegar 
and  scald;  drain  ofp,  add  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  each  of  cloves  and 
allspcie,  and  2  ounces  of  white  mustard  seed,  and  cover  with  cold 
vinegar. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES.-Slice  1  peck  of  green  tomatoes 
and  let  stand  over  night  with  a  little  salt  sprinkled  between  them;  h 


SOUR  PICKLES  539 

the  morning  put  them  into  weak  vinegar  and  scald ;  remove  the  toma- 
toes and  when  cold  put  in  jars.  Take  strong  cider  vinegar  to  cover, 
add  1  cup  sugar,  4  green  peppers,  mustard  and  spice  to  taste,  bring 
it  to  a  boil,  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes. 

RIPE  TOMATO  PICKLES.— Use  the  small  yellow  plum  toma- 
toes; prick  them  with  a  coarse  needle,  pack  in  jars,  and  cover  with 
hot  cider  vinegar,  spiced  or  not  as  preferred.  Cover  close  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place. 

PICKLED  TURNIPS.— Wash  them,  but  do  not  break  the  skin 
or  the  juice  will  escape;  boil  them,  and  when  done,  pare,  cut  in  slices 
^  inch  thick,  and  pour  on  spiced  vinegar  boiling  hot.  They  are  best 
eaten  when  new. 

PICKLED  WALNUTS  OR  BUTTERNUTS— Gather  them  when 
young  enough  to  be  pierced  readily  with  a  pin;  put  them  in  strong 
brine,  and  leave  them  7  days,  changing  it  every  other  day;  then  take 
them  out,  wipe  dry,  and  pierce  them  with  a  large  needle  in  a  number 
of  places;  cover  them  for  8  hours,  or  over  night,  with  cold  water; 
then  drain,  and  put  in  jars.  Take  enough  cider  vinegar  to  cover,  and 
to  each  gallon  allow  12  blades  mace,  1  cup  sugar,  36  black  pex)per= 
corns,  36  cloves,  and  1  tablespoon  allspice;  boil  5  minutes  and  pour 
hot  on  the  nuts;  repeat  twice,  3  days  apart,  and  tie  up. 

ORNAMENTAL  PICKLE — Take  red  beets,  cook  until  tender, 
then  peel  and  cut  into  dice,  put  in  jars  and  cover  with  vinegar  spiced 
to  taste.  Boil  eggs  25  mintues,  then  drop  into  cold  water;  when  cold, 
shell  and  put  in  with  the  pickles. 

FRENCH  PICKLES.— Take  1  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  1  med- 
ium^sized  cabbage,  6  large  onions,  6  large  peppers;  chop  all  very  fine, 
but  let  the  tomatoes  drain  through  a  colander  before  adding  the  rest. 
Add  1  cup  white  mustard-seed,  2  lbs.  brown  sugar,  1  gallon  strong 
vinegar,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  each  of  allspice,  cloves 
and  black  pepper  and  ^  cup  salt;  cook  ^  hour  and  put  into  a  jar. 

RUSSIA  PICKLES — Take  2  gallons  cabbage  coarsely  chopped, 
12  onions,  4  quarts  green  tomatoes  chopped  together,  6  green  pep- 
pers, 1  oz.  pepper  berry,  1  oz.  celery  seed,  ^  lb.  white  mustard-seed, 
1^  lbs.  sugar,  ^  gill  salt,  4  quarts  vinegar;  boil  all  together  until  the 
cabbage  and  tomatoes  are  tender; 'then  add  ^  oz.  turmeric.  Can 
while  hot. 

CHILI  SAUCE. — Take  18  large  tomatoes  (not  too  ripe),  1  green 
pepper,  3  onions;  chop  fine  and  add   2   tablespoons   of  salt,  ^  cup 


540  SWEET  PICKLES 

sugar,  2  cups  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  nutmeg,  cinnamon 
and  allspice;  boil  2  hours  and  put  in  cans. 

CHOW  CHOW — Take  2  large  heads  of  cauliflower,  2  quarts 
green  pejjpers,  8  quarts  green  cucumbers,  3  quarts  green  tomatoes,  2 
quarts  small  onions;  slice  about  ^  inch  thick,  and  sprinkle  with  salt 
in  alternate  layers  of  tomatoes,  onions  and  cucumbers;  boil  the  cauli- 
flowers about  5  minutes;  let  them  stand  over  night,  then  strain  all 
carefully  and  free  from  water.  Then  place  in  jars  and  make  a  sea- 
soning as  follows:  Take  1  lb.  mustard,  ^  lb.  mustard=seed,  |  lb.  whole 
allspice,  ^  lb.  whole  black  pepper,  2  cups  brine,  1  gallon  vinegar,  1 
tablespoon  curry  powder;  boil  strongly  15  minutes,  and  pour  over 
the  vegetables.  If  too  thick,  add  vinegar.  Mix  the  mustard  with 
vinegar,  and  tie  the  spices  all  together  in  a  muslin  bag;  they  should 
all  boil  with  the  vinegar. 

Chow  Chow  No.  2 — Take  equal  amounts  of  green  tomatoes  and 
cabbage,  ^  the  amount  of  onions,  or  less  if  preferred,  and  1  or  2 
green  peppers;  chop  all  together  fine;  then  season  with  plenty  of  salt, 
a  red  pepper  cut  fine  after  removing  the  seeds,  black  pepper  and  a 
little  white  mustard-seed.  Mix  the  spices  well  through  the  mass, 
pack  in  jars  or  bottles,  and  pour  on  cold  vinegar.  Keep  it  cool.  It 
will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  few  days,  will  keep  several  weeks,  and  can 
be  made  thus  without  cooking. 


SWEET  PICKLES. 

These  are  made  from  any  of  the  fruits  suitable  for  preserving, 
and  also  from  some  of  the  vegetables.  The  strength  of  the  syrup 
used  varies  from  1  to  4  lbs.  sugar  to  the  quart  of  vinegar,  as  vinegar 
varies  in  strength  and  some  people  like  it  sweeter  than  others,  but  it 
is  better  to  have  the  syrup  rich.  The  best  sugar  to  use  is  the  best 
light  brown  or  coffee  "  C  "  sugar;  some  use  maple  sugar. 

The  spices  generally  used  are  cinnamon  and  cloves,  although 
allspice,  mace  and  ginger  are  sometimes  added,  and  can  be  used  by 
any  who  desire  them.  The  spices  should  be  tied  in  a  muslin  bag  be- 
fore being  boiled  in  the  syrup,  or  they  will  discolor  such  fruits  as 
apples,  pears,  etc. 

Apples,  melon  rinds,  cucumbers  and  pears  should  be  steamed 
until  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a  broom  straw  or  fork  before 
jDouring  the  hot  syrup  over  them,  as  it  then  penetrates  them  more 
readily.  Smooth  skinned  fruits,  like  plums,  etc.,  should  be  pricked 
with  a  needle  before  being  cooked  in  the  syrup.    Peaches  if  very  ripe 


SWEET  PICKLES  541 

do  not  need  steaming,  but  otherwise  they  do.  They  are  sometimes 
merely  rubbed  well  with  a  cloth;  some  people  wash  them  first  with  a 
weak  lye,  and  some  cooks  jpeel  them. 

The  method  of  making  sweet  pickJes  is  to  prepare  the  syrup,  bring  it 
to  a  boil,  put  in  the  jpickles,  and  boil  until  tender;  then  x)ut  into  jars 
and  put  away  when  cold.  Another  way  is  to  preioare  the  syrup  and 
pour  it  boiling  hot  on  the  iDickles;  let  stand  until  next  day,  drain  ofp 
the  syrup,  boil  it,  pour  on  hot  again,  and  repeat  this  for  4  or  5  days; 
then  seal  hot.     Either  j)lan  works  well. 

A  Hint. — Many  people  do  not  know  that  sweet  pickles  can  be 
made  from  preserves  of  almost  any  kind.  All  that  is  needed  is  to 
take  the  syrup,  add  vinegar  and  any  spices  desired,  boil  it  up,  and 
pour  it  again  on  the  fruit. 

PICKLED    APPLES — Peel   and  core   them,    and  steam    until 
tender;  prejpare  a  syrup  of   3   lbs.   sugar   to   1 
quart   of  vinegar,   add   spices  (tied  in   a  bag) 
bring  to  a  boil,  put  in  the  apples,  let  simmer 
quietly  2  minutes,  then  put  in  jars  and  seal. 

CRAB  APPLES — Select  good  apples,  take 
out  the  blossom  end,  steam  until  a  fork  will 
readily  pierce  them;  prepare  a  rich  syrup  of  3^ 
lbs.  sugar  to  1  pint  vinegar,  add  spices,  and  fin-  obab  apple. 

ish  like  sweet  apples. 

PICKLED  BEETS. — Boil  them  until  tender,  in  a  porcelaindined 
kettle,  and  when  cold  slice  them  crossways,  as  the  appearance  is  bet- 
ter than  if  cut  lengthways;  put  in  jars  and  pour  on  a  hot  rich  syrup 
of  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices  to  taste  (put  the  spices  in  a  bag). 

PICKLED  BLACKBERRIES — Prepare  a  syrup  of  2  pints  vine- 
gar, 4  lbs.  sugar,  and  |  oz.  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves;  bring  it  to  a 
boil,  put  in  10  lbs.  berries,  simmer  for  ^  hour,  and  put  into  jars. 

Blueberries,  Raspberries  and  Strawberries  can  be  put  up  the  same 
way. 

PICKLED  RED  CABBAGE.— Cut  fine  8  heads  of  red  cabbage, 
pack  it  in  a  crock  in  layers,  sprinkling  salt  between  each  layer,  and 
let  stand  over  night.  Then  put  6  lbs.  sugar  in  f  gallon  of  vinegar, 
add  2  oz.  each  of  allspice,  pepper,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  and  2  table- 
spoons of  celery  seeds  (tied  in  a  bag);  boil  it  and  pour  hot  on  the 
cabbage. 

PICKLED  CANTELOPE.-  Select  melons  which  are  neither  soft. 
yellow,  nor  yet  very  green;  pare,  remove  the  seetls  and  soft  inside, 


542  SWEET  PICKLES 

slice,  and  stick  a  clove  with  the  blossom  eiid  taken  ofp  into  each 
piece.  Prepare  a  syrup  of  3|-  lbs.  sugar  to  2  quarts  vinegar,  and 
when  it  boils  put  in  the  melons  and  simmer  until  they  are  soft  and 
transparent;  then  put  into  glass  jars  and  pour  on  the  syrup  hot;  leave 
until  the  next  day  and  they  will  have  settled  a  little,  when  fill 
again  with  the  cold  syrup  left  over,  and  cover  closely. 

PICKLED  CAULIFLOWER — Cut  the  cauliflower  into  any 
shaped  pieces  desired,  put  them  into  strong  brine,  and  leave  24 
hours;  then  take  out,  boil  the  brine,  and  pour  it  on  the  pickles  scald- 
ing hot;  let  stand  until  next  day,  and  drain  them  out.  Prepare  a 
spiced  vinegar,  boiling  any  spices  desired  in  it;  let  it  get  cold,  and 
pour  it  cold  on  the  jDickles. 

PICKLED     CHERRIES.— Stone     and    put 

into  a  jar  5  lbs.  good  ripe  cherries,  adding  a  few 
pits  to  flavor;  take  -|  oz.  each  of  mace,  cloves 
and  cinnamon,  2  lbs.  sugar,  and  2  pints  good  ci- 
der vinegar;  put  all  together,  bring  to  a  boil, 
and  pour  over  the  fruit  hot. 

CURRANTS.— Put  6  heaping  cups  of  sug- 
ar into  1  quart  vinegar;  add  7  lbs.  currants, 
scald  them,  take  them  out  and  put  in  jars;  boil 
the  syrup  a  few  minutes,  and  pour  it  hot  over 
the  fruit.     Use  only  ^  as  much  vinegar  if  they  are  desired  sweeter. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES — Take  ripe  cucumbers,  quarter  them, 
remove  the  seeds,  and  soak  in  strong  brine  (keeping  them  well  un- 
der) for  10  days;  take  out,  soak  1  day  in  clear  cold  water,  and  then 
over  night  in  weak  alum  water,  and  drain  them  out;  take  1  quart  of 
vinegar,  6  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons  each  of  cloves,  mace  and  cinna- 
mon (tied  in  a  bag),  bring  to  a  boil,  put  in  the  cucumbers,  and  sim- 
mer until  tender. 

PICKLED  GRAPES — Take  fresh,  sound,  ripe  grapes,  and  pack 
them  in  jars;  prepare  sweetened  and  spiced  vinegar,  let  it  get  cold, 
and  pour  over  the  grapes,  covering  them  fully. 

PICKLED  FIGS. — Make  a  hot  pickle  of  sweetened  cider  vinegar; 
take  ripe  figs,  peel  them,  put  them  in  the  pickle,  and  boil  gently  un- 
til tender. 

PICKLED  PLUMS— Gather  the  plums  with  the  stalks,  prick 
them  with  a  needle,  and  put  them  with  layers  of  cloves  and  cinna- 
mon into  glass  jars.     For  every  4  lbs.  plums  boil  up  2  lbs.  sugar  and 


SWEET  PICKLES  543 

1  quart  of  vinegar,  and  pour  it  liot  over  the  plums.  Next  day  pour 
off  the  vinegar,  boil  it  up  again,  and  pour  it  over  the  fruit  again; 
repeat  this  twice,  then  tie  up.     It  improves  by  keeping. 

PICKLED  PEACHES— If  hard,  steam  them  until  tender;  if  soft, 
wipe  them  only;  then  pack  them  in  jars.  Take  1  quart  of  sugar  and 
1  tablespoon  of  cloves  and  broken  stick  cinnamon  (tied  in  a  bag)  to 
each  quart  of  vinegar;  boil  it  5  minutes  and  pour  hot  over  the  fruit; 
the  next  day  turn  it  off,  boil  again,  and  pour  hot  on  the  peaches 
again;  repeat  once,  seal  up  and  i^ut  away. 

Pears  and  Quinces  can  be  put  up  the  same  way,  but  the  latter  can 
be  pared,  cored  and  quartered  before  steaming,  and  the  x^arings  and 
cores  used  for  making  jelly. 

PICKLED  PINEAPPLE— This  can  be  pared,  sliced,  and  boiled 
gently  until  tender;  then  put  in  jars  and  finished  like  peaches. 

PICKLED  RAISINS. — Prepare  a  syrup  of  1  cup  sugar  to  1  pint 
vinegar;  put  in  2  lbs.  raisins,  leaving  the  stems  on,  and  cook  gently 
30  minutes;  then  put  them  into  jars. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES— Slice  1  peck 
green  tomatoes  and  6  large  onions  (or  1  quart  of 
small  ones);  sprinkle  on  1  cup  salt,  and  let  stand 
over  night;  in  the  morning  drain;  then  boil  them  5 
minutes  in  2  pints  vinegar  and  4  pints  water,  and 
again  drain  through  a  colander.  Then  take  1  gallon 
vinegar,  and  2  lbs.  sugar,  2  oz.  white  mustard=seed,  2 
tablespoons  each  of  cinnamon,  ginger  and  cloves, 
and  6  green  peppers,  chopped,  or  ^  teaspoon  cayenne  j-^maxu. 

pepper  instead;  boil  all  gently  15  minutes,  and  jjour  over  the  chop- 
ped tomatoes  and  onions.  They  will  keep  a  year  or  more.  If  de- 
sired, the  onions  can  be  omitted,  and  the  tomatoes  put  up  alone  in 
the  same  way. 

Tomato  Pickles  No.  2. — Take  1  peck  sliced  green  tomatoes,  and 
let  them  stand  in  strong  brine  all  night;  then  drain,  boil  until  ten- 
der, drain  again  and  put  in  jars.  Prepare  a  syrup  of  3  lbs.  sugar,  ^ 
oz.  allspice,  and  1  oz.  each  cinnamon  and  cloves  to  1  quart  vinegar; 
boil,  and  pour  hot  over  the  tomatoes. 

HUSK  TOMATO  PICKLES.— For  7  lbs.  husk  tomatoes  use  4  lbs. 
sugar,  2  cups  vinegar,  2  teaspoons  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and 
mace;  prick  the  tomatoes  instead  of  peeling,  jiut  them  in  a  ptn-celain 
kettle  with  the  sugar  in  alternate  layers,  heat  slowly  to  boiling,  add 
the  vinegar  and  spices,  and  boil  5  minutes;  take  the  fruit  out  with  a 


544  SPICED  FRUIT 

perforated  skimmer,  and  spread  it  on  dishes  to  cool;  when  cool,  pack 
it  in  glass  jars,  boil  the  syrup  thick,  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  on  the 
fruit.  Examine  them  occasionally  the  first  month,  and  if  any  signs 
of  fermenting  appear,  set  the  jars  uncovered  in  a  kettle  of  water 
(with  thick  cloth  under  them)  and  heat  until  the  contents  are 
scalded.     These  are  very  nice. 

WATERMELON  RIND.— Soak  it  in  vinegar  over  night;  then 
boil  it  in  water  until  tender,  and  drain.  Prepare  a  syrup  of  3  lbs. 
sugar  and  1  oz.  each  cinnamon  and  cloves  (tied  in  a  bag)  to  1  quart 
vinegar,  or  to  1  pint  vinegar  if  wanted  very  sweet;  bring  it  to  a  boil, 
put  in  the  rind,  boil  5  minutes  and  put  in  jars. 

Citroo  can  be  put  up  in  the  same  way. 


SPICED  FRUIT. 

Some  people  confound  spiced  fruit  and  sweet  pickles,  but  they 
are  not  the  same.  Sweet  pickles  are  really  a  pickle,  but  spiced  fruit 
is  a  spiced  preserve,  usually  boiled  down  thick. 

SPICED  FRUIT.— Sprinkle  1|  lbs.  sugar  over  3^  lbs.  fruit  and 
let  it  stand  over  night;  then  take  the  juice,  add  1  cup  vinegar,  and 
cinnamon,  mace  and  cloves  to  taste,  and  boil  15  minutes,  then  put 
the  fruit  in  and  boil  10  minutes  and  put  in  jars. 

SPICED  APPLES.— Take  2  cups  vinegar,  2  lbs.  of  sugar,  |  oz. 
cinnamon  and  ^  oz.  of  cloves;  boil  all  together,  and  while  boiling  add 
4  lbs.  of  apples  which  are  pared,  quartered  and  cored;  let  them  boil 
about  20  minutes,  or  until  tender;  then  take  them  out  and  put  in  a 
jar;  boil  the  syrup  down  until  thick  and  pour  it  over  the  apples. 

SPICED    BLACKBERRIES Take    1 

cup  of  vinegar,  2  cups  of  sugar,  and  1  ta- 
blespoon each  of  allspice,  cloves  and  cin- 
namon; add  2^  lbs.  blackberries,  bring  to  a 
boil,  skim  out  the  blackberries,  and  boil 
the  balance  for  1  hour;  put  back  the  ber- 
ries and  boil  15  minutes;  then  put  in  jars 
and  tightly  cover. 

The  Blackbekby  is  found  in  northern  climates 
and  well  repays    cultivation.      The    root  is    astrin-  blaokbebby. 

gent  and  is  used  to  check  diarrhea.      The  fruit  is 

wholesome  and  palatable.     Its  composition  is  86.3{e  water,  4.5^  sugar  and  1.2J^  free 
ftcid. 


SPICED  FKUIT  545 

SPICED  CHERRIES— Boil  together  2  pints  vinegar,  2  lbs. 
sugar,  and,  tied  in  a  bag,  -|  oz.  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  mace; 
then  put  in  5  lbs.  tart  cherries,  having  the  stems  left  on,  and  boil  20 
minutes. 

SPICED  CURRANTS— Take  4  lbs.  sugar,  2  cups  of  vinegar,  4 
teaspoons  each  of  allspice,  cinnamon  and  cloves  (tied  in  a  bag);  add 
5  lbs.  currants  and  boil  2  to  3  hours. 

SPICED  ELDERBERRIES— Take  2  cups  vinegar,  4  lbs.  sugar,  1 
teaspoon  each  of  allspice  and  cloves  and  1  table- 
spoon of  cinnamon  (all  tied  in  a  bag),  and  boil; 
then  add  6  lbs.  elderberries,  boil  2  hours,  and 
put  in  jars. 

The  Eldekbebry  is  widely  distributed.     The  berries 
are  sub=acid  and  sweetish  with  a  rather  unpleasant  flavor.  eldebbebeies. 

Some  of  the  poorer  German  people  use   them   in   soups. 

The  flower  buds  are  sometimies  pickled  and  used  like  capers.      They  are  aperient, 
diuretic  and  sudorific  medicinally. 

SPICED  GOOSEBERRIES — Take  5  lbs.  gooseberries,  4  lbs. 
sugar,  2  cups  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  cloves  and  cinnamon;  boil  3 
hours,  then  put  in  jars. 

SPICED  GRAPES.— Pulp  7  lbs.  grapes  and  scald  until  the  pulps 
will  pass  through  a  sieve;  then  put  them  in  the  preserving  kettle,  add 
5  lbs.  sugar,  1  quart  vinegar,  and  ground  cinnamon,  cloves  and  all- 
spice to  taste;  let  boil,  add  the  skins,  and  boil  1  hour,  or  longer  if 
they  are  wanted  very  thick. 

SPICED  PEARS. — Take  2  cups  vinegar  and  6  cups  of  sugar,  and 
put  cinnamon,  cloves  and  mace  in  a  bag  and  boil  all  till  nearly  thick 
enough;  then  put  in  pears  which  have  been  nicely  pared,  and  3  or  4 
cloves  (without  the  heads)  stuck  in  each  one,  and  boil  until  they 
look  clear;  now  put  the  pears  in  a  jar,  pour  the  syrup  over,  cover 
tightly,  and  they  will  keep  indefinitely. 

SPICED  PEACHES — Wipe  2^  lbs.  peaches  and  boil  them  until 
tender  in  2  cups  vinegar  and  1  lb.  brown  sugar;  then  take  them  out 
and  put  in  ^  oz.  each  of  cinnamon,  mace  and  cloves,  boil  them  all 
well,  and  pour  over  the  peaches, 

SPICED  TOMATOES.— To  each  pound  of  ripe  tomatoes  (peeled) 
allow  -|  cup  vinegar,  |  lb.  sugar,  and  spices  to  taste;  boil  all  together 
gently  until  the  tomatoes  are  cooked;  take  out  the  tomatoes  and  put 
them  on  a  dish  till  cold,  but  let  the  syrup  sinuner;  put  back  the 
tomatoes  when  cold,  and  cook  till  they  are  a  dark  red;  then  take 
them  out  and  boil  the  syrup  down  thick.  When  cold,  put  in  jara 
and  seal. 


546  CATSUPS  AND  SOYS 

CATSUPS  AND  SOYS. 

In  making  catsups  use  good  sound  fruit.  See  what  we  say 
about  "  The  Utensils  Used "  in  the  introduction  to  our  article  on 
"  Jams,  Jellies,  etc.,"  as  that  will  apply  also  for  catsups.  Do  not  put 
these  up  in  tin  cans,  but  use  glass  or  stone  jars.  If  mold  is  found  on 
top  when  the  catsup  is  opened,  it  can  all  be  removed,  and  the  con- 
tents will  not  be  seriously  injured;  but  if  mold  is  scattered  in  spots 
throughout  the  mass,  it  is  worthless.  If  when  a  can  is  opened  there 
is  danger  that  the  balance  of  the  contents  will  spoil,  it  should  be 
thoroughly  heated.     Vinegar  can  then  be  added  if  too  thick. 

Catsups,  like  preserves,  should  be  kept  in  a  dark,  dry,  cool  place 
A  few  whole  cloves  laid  on  top  will  prevent  mold  from  forming, 

APPLE  CATSUP. — Take  12  tart,  sound  apples,  pare  and  quarter 
them,  and  cook  in  very  little  water  until  soft;  then  pulp  through  a 
sieve;  for  each  quart  of  this  pulp  take  2  cups  vinegar,  2  medium^ 
sized  onions  chopped  fine,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  teasjDoons  of  cinnamon,  1 
teaspoon  each  of  mustard,  cloves  and  pepper,  1  tablespoon  salt;  mix 
all  together  with  the  pulp,  and  boil  1  hour;  put  into  jars  hc^  and  seal 
tight. 

CRAB  APPLE  CATSUP.— Take  |  peck  of  chopped  crab  apples 
(do  not  remove  the  skins),  3  cups  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  vinegar,  1  even 
tablespoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  each  of  ground  cinnamon,  pepper,  and 
cloves.     Cook  slowly  until  soft;  then  put  in  jars. 

CHERRY  CATSUP.— Take  the  pits  from  2  quarts  of  nice  large 
cherries;  put  2  cups  of  vinegar  with  2  cups  of  sugar,  a  dozen  whole 
cloves,  and  2  or  3  sticks  of  cinnamon,  broken  coarsely,  in  the  preserv- 
ing kettle,  and  boil  the  cherries  10  minutes.  Set  away  in  the  kettle 
until  next  day;  boil  again  5  minutes  and  pack  hot  in  wide=mouthed 
bottles;  cork  tightly.  A  few  whole  cloves  under  the  corks  will  pre- 
vent mold  in  the  tops  of  the  bottles. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP— Grate  the  cucum- 
bers, drain  them  in  a  colander,  and  for  each 
quart  allow  2  cups  vinegar,  4  tablespoons  grated 
horseradish,  2  teaspoons  salt,  and  ^  teaspoon 
cayenne  pepper.  Bottle  without  cooking,  and 
seal.  Some  cooks  cover  it  with  vinegar  alone; 
others  add  1  large  onion,  chopped  very  fine. 

CURRANT     CATSUP Take   6   quarts   of  cuoumbkb. 

currant  juice,  2  lbs,  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1 

tablespoon  each  of  cinnamon,  allspice   and   salt.     Boil   half  down; 

then  add  1  cup  vinegar.     Cork  tightly. 


CATSUPS  AND  SOYS 


547 


ELDERBERRY  CATSUP.— Pick  2  pints  elderberries  from  the 
stalk,  put  in  a  jar,  and  pour  over  them  2  pints  scalding  hot  vinegar; 
cover  with  window  glass  and  set  in  the  sun  2  days;  then  drain  off  the 
liquor  and  add  2  tablespoons  white  sugar,  1  tablespoon  small  pep- 
pers, 6  anchovies  soaked  and  picked  to  pieces,  1  teaspoon  salt,  -|  tea- 
spoon cloves;  boil  1  hour,  stirring  frequently,  and  keeping  covered 
when  not  stirring;  then  take  from  the  stove,  let  it  cool,  then  strain, 
bottle,  and  seal. 

GRAPE  CATSUP.— Take  6  lbs.  grapes,  boil  in  a  little  water  and 
strain;  add  3  lbs.  sugar,   2   cups  vinegar,   1 
tablespoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  extract 
of    lemon,   and   salt;    boil   until    thick,   and 
bottle. 

GOOSEBERRY  CATSUP.— To  8  quarts 
of  gooseberrries  add  4  lbs.  brown  sugar,  2 
cups  vinegar,  2  oz.  cinnamon,  1  oz.  cloves. 
Boil  4  hours  slowly,  and  stir  frequently. 

LEMON  CATSUP.— Mix  together  4  tablespoons  of  white  mus- 
tard-seed, 2  tablespoons  each  of  grated  horseradish  and  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  each  of  white  pepper  and  turmeric,  1  tablespoon  each  of 
mace  and  cloves,  1  saltspoon  of  cayenne  pepper,  1  shallot  minced 
fine;  have  the  spices  all  ground  fine,  and  sprinkle  on  2  tablespoons 
salt.      Add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  12  lemons,  cover,  and  put  for 


GOOSEBEKEIES. 


MUSHROOMS 


bottle  and  seal. 

MUSHROOM  CATSUP.— Put  the  mush- 
rooms in  layers,  with  salt  sprinkled  on  each 
layer,  and  let  stand  4  days;  then  mash  them 
fine,  and  to  each  quart  add  |-  of  a  teaspoon  of 
black  pepper,  and  boil  it  2  hours  in  a  crock 
set  in  boiling  water;  strain  it  from  the  liquor 
without  squeezing;  boil  the  liquor,  and  let  it 
stand  to  cool  and  settle;  then  bottle  and  seal 
securely. 

OYSTER  CATSUP.— Chop  1  quart  of  oysters^  put  them  in  a 
porcelain  kettle  with  their  liquor  and  1  cup  vinegar;  bring  to  a  boil, 
skim  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  boil  3  or  4  minutes;  strain  through 
coarse  flannel  or  a  hair  sieve,  return  the  liquor  to  the  fire  and  add  1 
tablespoon  salt,  and  1  teaspoon  each  of  mace  and  cayenne  pepper; 
boil  20  minutes,  and  bottle  when  cold,  sealing  it  well. 


548  CATSUPS  AND  SOYS 

PEPPER  CATSUP.— Take  50  pods  of  large,  red,  bell  peppers, 
seeds  and  all;  add  1  x)int  vinegar,  and  boil  until  you  can  pull 
it  through  a  sieve;  then  add  to  the  pulp  1  pint  vinegar,  2  tablepoons 
each  of  sugar,  cloves,  mace,  allspice,  salt  and  onions,  and  boil  all  to 
the  jDroper  consistency.     Some  cooks  omit  the  spices. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. — Tomatoes  for  catsups  are  best  gathered  in 
August,  as  they  become  acid  and  watery  later  on.  Select  good  toma- 
toes, scald  and  strain  through  a  sieve;  to  each  2  quarts  of  the  sifted 
tomatoes,  allow  2|  tablespoons  each  of  black  pepper,  salt  and  ground 
mustard,  1  tablespoon  of  cloves,  and  2  cups  of  vinegar;  boil  3  hours 
and  bottle  for  use. 

Tomato  Catsup  No.  2. — Take  1  bushel  of  tomatoes,  2  oz.  salt,  1|  oz. 
ground  black  pepper,  1  oz.  ground  cinnamon,  ^  oz.  ground  cloves,  3 
tablespoons  ground  mustard.  Skin  and  slice  the  tomatoes,  stew 
them  until  soft,  rub  through  a  sieve,  and  boil  the  pulp  slowly  until  it 
is  about  the  consistency  of  apple  butter;  then  add  1  quart  of  vinegar 
to  which  has  been  added  1  cup  of  sugar  and  the  above  s^Dices;  boil  up 
twice,  bottle  and  seal. 

WALNUT  CATSUP.— Gather  the  nuts  while  they  are  young 
and  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a  pin  easily;  mash  them  to  a  soft 
pulp,  and  let  them  lie  in  salt  water  2  weeks;  drain 
them,  cover  with  boiling  vinegar,  mix  and  mash 
them  in  it,  and  strain  through  a  colander ;  to  each 
quart  of  the  juice  add  3  tablespoons  each  of 
pejDper  and  grated  nutmeg,  2  tablespoons  of 
powdered  cloves,  1  tablespoon  of  ginger;  boil  1 
hour,  and  bottle  when  cold. 

The  Walnut  is  a  native  of  Persia.  In  the  south  of 
Europe  it  is  quite  largely  consumed,  being  there  considered 
wholesome  and  nutritious.     The  unripe  fruit,  when  the  shell  walnjt. 

is  soft,  makes  an    excellent  pickle.       By  boiling  them    in 
syrup  a  delicate  sweetmeat  is  prepared.         The  oil  pressed 

from  the  nut  is  sometimes  used  as  a  substitute  for  olive  oil  on  the  continent, 
and  it  is  the  nut  oil  used  in  painting.  The  matter  left  after  the  oil  is  extracted 
is  nutritious  for  poultry  or  cattle.  Grated  walnuts  are  used  in  Spain  for  tarts  and 
other  dishes. 

SOYS. 
CURRANT  soy.- Take  i  gallon  of  currants  and  add  2  cups  vin- 
egar,  1  cup  sugar  (heaped),  1  tablespoon  mace,  the  same  of  allspice, 
1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  pepper;  boil  all  together  1  hour, 
bottle  and  seal. 

Soy. — The  genuine  soy  is  made  in  Japan  and  China  from  the  seeds  of  a  plant 
called  Dolichos  Soja;  the  seeds  are  similar  to  our  kidney  bean,  but  are  black.  The 
Boy  is  made  by  boiling  the  seeds  until  soft,  adding  wheat  or  barley,  allowing  it  to 
ferment,  and  then  adding  an  equal  amount  of  salt.      It  becomes  clearer  with  age. 


CATSUPS  AND  SOYS  549 

There  are  many  stories  of  its  adulteration,  some  of  them  unfortunately  being  too 
true.  It  is  much  liked  with  fish.  The  term  has  now  come,  however,  to  be  applied 
to  a  kind  of  catsup. 

GOOSEBERRY  SOY.— Take  2  cups  vinegar,  3  lbs.  sugar,  and  6 
lbs.  gooseberries;  boil  30  minutest 

QRAPE  SOY. — Take  5  lbs.  grapes  and  let  them  simmer  gently 
until  soft;  strain  through  a  sieve  and  add  2  tablespoons  each  of  all- 
spice and  cinnamon,  ^  tablespoon  each  of  cloves,  grated  nutmeg,  and 
salt,  3  cups  of  sugar  (heaped),  and  2  cups  vinegar;  mix  all  thor- 
oughly, boil  until  thick,  bottle  and  seal. 

PLUM  SOY.— Take  1  gallon  of  plums,  boil  gently  until  tender, 
rub  through  a  sieve,  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  the  same  of  salt, 

1  tablespoon  each  of  cloves,  ground  mustard  and  black  pepper,  and 

2  cups  vinegar;  boil  gently  1  hour,   bottle  and  seal. 

GREEN  TOMATO  SOY.— Take  4  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  sliced 
but  not  peeled,  12  onions  peeled  and  sliced,  add  4  cuj^s  sugar,  1  table- 
spoon each  of  cloves  and  allspice,  2  tablespoons  each  of  black  pepper; 
ground  mustard  and  salt,  and  |-  gallon  of  good  vinegar;  boil  gently, 
stirring  frequently,  until  tender;  bottle  and  seal. 

RIPE  TOMATO  SOY.— Peel  and  slice  4  quarts  of  ripe  tomatoes, 
slice  and  add  7  onions,  sprinkle  on  1  cup  salt,  and  let  stand  36 
hours,  when  drain  off  the  liquor;  then  add  1  teaspoon  red  pepper,  2 
teaspoons  each  of  allspice,  cloves,  ginger  and  ground  mustard,  and  ^ 
gallon  of  good  vinegar;  let  it  simmer  quietly  2  hours  and  add  ^  lb. 
white  mustard=seed  and  4  cups  sugar;  cook  till  done,  then  bottle  and 
seal. 


VINEGAR. 

INEGAR  (from  the  French  vin  aigre  meaning  literally  sour 
wine)  is  a  form  of  acetic  acid,  and  its  flavor  varies  according 
(i)^"  to  the  source  from  which  it  is  obtained.  Vinegar  of  the 
best  quality  is  obtained  from  the  grape,  white  wine  vinegar 
being  usually  considered  the  best.  Cider  vinegar  is  derived  from 
cider,  and  in  the  United  States  most  of  the  vinegar  was  formerly 
obtained  from  this  source.  Its  flavor  is  jieculiar,  and  many  prefer  it' 
Vinegar  is  also  made  from  barley,  sour  ale  or  beer,  glucose,  etc.  Vin- 
egar containing  5  %  of  the  pure  acetic  acid  is  called  proof  vinegar, 
and  is  the  strongest  that  is  used,  but  much  of  that  sold  in  the  market 
contains  only  3%  of  the  acid  or  even  less.  It  is  frequently  adulter- 
ated with  other  acids  like  sulphuric,  muriatic,  etc.  Many  flavored 
vinegars  used  for  culinary  purposes  are  merely  ordinary  vinegar  fla- 
vored with  fruits,  herbs  or  vegetables.  We  give  elsewhere  recipes  for 
making  a  great  variety  of  these. 

All  vegetable  juices  can  go  through  the  acetous  fermentation  and 
produce  vinegar.  The  process  can  be  hastened  by  introducing  a  lit- 
tle ferment,  like  yeast.  The  fermentation  takes  place  most  readily  at 
70°  to  90°  F.,  but  below  60°  or  above  90°  the  action  begins  to  dimin- 
ish; boiling  and  freezing  both  stop  it  altogether. 

Vinegar  can  be  made  from  any  pure  fruit  jelly  which  has  begun 
fermenting,  or  which  will  not  "  set."  All  that  is  needed  is  to  add 
water  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place,  or  exposed  to  the  sun  is  best, 
covered  with  mosquito  netting.  Adding  a  little  "  mother,"  or  yeast, 
will  hasten  it.  Vinegar  can  also  be  made  from  cider  or  any  pure 
fruit  wine  in  the  same  way,  but  add  a  little  sugar. 

Vinegar  and  yeast  are  best  kept  in  glass  vessels;  glazed  ware  is 
not  suitable,  as  their  acids  attack  the  glazing,  extract  its  lead,  and 
produce  the  poisonous  acetate  of  lead.  See  what  we  say  about 
"The  Utensils  Used"  in  our  preceding  chapter  on  "Jams,  Jellies, 
etc."     It  will  apply  for  vinegar,  also. 

Mother  of  vinegar  is  a  fungus,  or  low  form  of  plant  life  (the  Mycodermi  aceti). 
A  little  of  this  put  into  a  sweet  or  alcoholic  solution  will  soon  convert  it  into  acetic 
acid  or  vinegar.     The  plant  may  be  divided  and  propagated  to  any  extent. 

Vinegar  can  hardly  be  said  to  have  any  nutritive  value,  its  office  being  to  stim- 
ulate the  nerves  of  taste,  and  to  flavor  various  foods.  It  also  has  a  powerful  pre- 
servative action,  preventing  the  decomposition  of  vegetable  and  animal  sub- 
stances. 

550 


VINEGAR 


551 


APPLE  VINEGAR. — When  cooking  apples,  save  the  parings 
and  cores  (if  sound) ;  they  can  be  thrown  into  a  jar  from  time  to  time, 
as  they  accumulate;  add  enough  soft  water  to  cover,  and  1  cup  of 
sugar  or  molasses  to  each  7  or  8  quarts  of  water;  keep  out  insects  by 
covering  with  netting;  keep  it  in  a  warm  place  and  it  will  form  good 
vinegar, 

BEET  VINEGAR. — A  good  vinegar  can  be 
made  from  beets  by  extracting  the  juice,  and 
letting  it  stand  in  a  warm  place,  or  exposed  to 
the  sun,  covered  with  netting;  a  little  yeast  will 
hasten  the  process. 

CHERRY  VINEGAR.— Into  1  quart  of  good 
cider  put  4  lbs.  cherries,  mashed,  and  add  their 
stones,  also;  let  stand  24  hours,  and  add  4  lbs. 
more  cherries  without  their  stones;  let  stand  3 
days  and  strain  (but  do  not  squeeze)  through  a 
thin  bag;  add  1  quart  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  beet. 

juice,  and  boil  gently  80  minutes;  skim  and  bot- 
tle when  cold. 

CIDER  VINEGAR — To  each  2  quarts  of  cider  add  1  cup  molas- 
ses and  ^  cup  yeast;  keep  covered  where  the  temperature  is  70°  to 
90°  and  it  will  soon  make  vinegar;  then  draw  it  off  from  the  dregs, 
and  keep  in  a  jug,  or  bottles,  tightly  corked.  Cider  for  vinegar, 
should  be  made  from  good  sound  apples  which  are  not  wormy  or 
decayed. 

CLOVER  VINEGAR.— Put  into  a  jar  1  quart  of  molasses,  and 
pour  on  2^  gallons  of  pure  soft  water,  boiling  hot;  as  soon  as  it  is 
barely  lukewarm,  add  2  cups  hop  yeast  and  5  pints  clover  blossoms; 
cover  and  let  stand  a  fortnight;  then  strain  through  cloth. 

CORN  VINEGAR Put  into  a  jar  2  cups  of  corn  cut  from  the 

cob,  add  2  cups  of  molasses  or  brown  sugar,  and  4  quarts  of  pure  soft 
water;  set  it  in  the  sun  covered  with  netting  to  keep  out  the  insects; 
in  3  weeks  it  will  make  good  vinegar,  which  is  preferred  by  many 
people  to  cider  vinegar. 

CURRANT  VINEGAR.— To  1  gallon  of  pure  soft  water  add  3 
cups  brown  sugar  and  5  cups  strained  currant  juice;  keep  in  a  warm 
place  (from  70°  to  90°)  and  it  will  form  vinegar.  Or,  mash  the  cur- 
rants, let  stand  over  night,  strain,  and  let  the  juice  stand  in  a  warm 
place  until  fermentation  ceases.  White  currants  will  make  a  deli- 
cate, pale  vinegar. 


552  VINEGAR 

GOOSEBERRY  VINEGAR,— Take  ripe  gooseberries,  mash  them, 
and  to  each  quart  add  1|  quarts  soft  water,  milk  warm;  let  it  stand 
24  hours,  strain  it,  and  add  1  lb.  coarse  brown  sugar  to  each  quart; 
let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  in  the  kitchen,  and  in  2  or  3  months  it 
will  make  fine  vinegar.  It  will  be  superior  to  much  that  is  sold  as 
white  wine  vinegar. 

HONEY  VINEGAR.— Mix  thoroughly  into  1  gallon  of  warm  soft 
water,  2  cups  of  clear  honey;  cover  and  let  it  ferment,  when  it  will 
make  good  vinegar. 

MOLASSES  VINEGAR.— To  each  gallon  of  warm  soft  water  add 
1  pint  molasses  and  ^  cup  yeast;  keep  warm  and  in  3  weeks  it  will 
make  vinegar. 

POTATO  VINEGAR — Take  the  water  in  which  potatoes  have 
been  boiled,  and  to  a  gallon  add  ^  cup  hop  yeast  and  2  cups  sugar; 
cover  with  netting,  let  stand  exposed  to  the  sun  or  in  a  warm  place, 
and  in  about  a  month  it  will  make  good  vinegar. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR.— Put  raspberries 
in  a  stone  jar  and  add  enough  vinegar  to  cover 
them;  let  stand  6  days  covered  over,  but  stirring 
occasionally;  then  strain  through  flannel;  add 
sugar  pint  for  pint,  boil  ^  hour,  skim,  and  bottle 
when  cold. 

The  Raspbekky  belongs  to  the  same  species  as  the 
blackberry.  There  are  2  kinds — the  red  and  the  white. 
Th6  white  is  the  rarer  of  the  two.  The  juice  is  rich  and 
abundant,  and  the  fruit  is  wholesome  and  valuable  to  people 
of  a  nervous  or  bilious  temperament. 

RHUBARB   VINEGAR.— Crush  the   rhubarb,  ^aspbeebies. 

cover  with  lukewarm  water,  and  let  stand  36  hours;  then  strain,  add 
1^  lbs.  raw  sugar  or  molasses  to  the  gallon  of  juice,  and  also  add  a  lit- 
tle yeast;  keep  it  covered  and  in  a  warm  place  for  4  weeks;  then 
strain,  put  in  a  keg  and  leave  it  to  ripen. 

SORGHUM  VINEGAR.— Use  about  4  gallons  of  water  to  1  gal- 
lon of  sorghum;  keep  it  in  a  warm  place,  or  in  the  sun  covered  with 
netting,  and  it  will  turn  to  vinegar.  Adding  a  little  yeast  will 
hasten  the  process. 

Tomato  vinegar  can  be  made  of  it  by  adding  1  gallon  of  ripe 
tomatoes  at  the  same  time  that  the  sorghum  is  added. 

SUGAR  VINEGAR.— To  1  gallon  of  water  add  1^  lbs.  raw  sugar, 
and  4  pint  yeast;  keep  it  at  about  80°;  in  4  days  it  can  be  drawn  ofP, 
when  add  1  oz.  each  of  cream  of  tartar  and  chopped  raisins;  in  a  few 
weeks  it  will  be  ready  to  bottle. 


VINEGAK  553 

YEAST  VINEGAR — Put  into  an  open  keg  or  jar  2  quarts  of 
hop  yeast  sponge  (set  and  allowed  to  get  light  as  for  bread);  add  5 
lbs.  sugar  or  molasses,  5  gallons  of  soft  water,  and  2  quarts  of  corn 
which  has  been  boiled  until  tender  (adding  it  when  cold);  keep  it 
covered  and  in  3  weeks  it  will  make  fine  vinegar. 

AROMATIC  VINEGAR — Take  15  grains  of  oil  of  cloves,  10 
grains  oil  of  cinnamon,  5  grains  of  oil  of  lavender,  1  oz.  of  camphor, 
I  pint  glacial  acetic  acid;  mix  and  bottle.  Aromatic  vinegar  is  a 
nasal  stimulant  useful  for  reviving  and  refreshing  those  who  suffer 
from  faintness  and  nervous  headaches. 

SPICED  VINEGAR.— Mix  and  tie  in  small  muslin  bags,  1  oz. 
each  of  allspice,  celery  seed,  cloves,  turmeric,  mace,  pepper,  ground 
mustard  and  white  ginger  cut  small;  add  3  cups  sugar  and  1^  gallons 
vinegar;  keep  closely  covered  and  use  as  needed. 


BEVERAGES. 


HEN  it  is  remembered  that  abont  87%  of  the  body  consists 
of  water,  which  is  constantly  evaporating  and  passing 
away,  and  which  must  be  regularly  renewed,  the  neces- 
sity and  importance  of  beverages  will  be  readily  seen. 
Water  is  the  most  natural  drink  for  man,  and  however  it  may  be 
flavored  or  disguised  it  is  the  chief  ingredient  in  all  his  beverages. 
Not  less  than  3^  pints  a  day  are  needed  by  an  ordinary  person,  and 
those  who  are  very  large  or  active  may  need  4  or  5  pints  daily.  Al- 
though water  is  found  in  all  the  food  we  take,  a  large  proportion  of 
the  needed  amount  must  be  taken  in  beverages.  Although  in  hot 
weather  cold  drinks  are  very  refreshing,  and  within  proper  limits  are 
not  objectionable,  at  other  times  they  often  chill  the  digestive  organs 
and  depress  the  nerve  centers,  so  that  there  is  reason  as  well  as  plea- 
sure in  the  use  of  hot  drinks. 

TEA. 

Of  all  the  beverages  devised  by  man  tea  is  probably  the  most 
extensively  used. 

TO  MAKE  TEA. — Allow  1  teaspoon  of  tea  for  each  cup  water, 
and  an  extra  one  for  the  pot.  This  is  the  old  rule,  but  it  varies 
somewhat  with  the  quality  of  the  tea,  less  being  required  of  the  finer 
grades  than  of  the  cheap  teas,  and  as  the  finer  grades  go  farther 
they  are  not  so  much  more  expensive  in  the  end.  If  much  is  made 
at  once  the  proportion  can  be  reduced  a  little.  Pour  boiling  water 
into  the  teapot,  and  let  it  stand  until  the  pot  is  heated  through;  then 
pour  out  the  water,  put  in  the  tea,  and  pour  on  the  water  boiling  hot, 
cover  closely,  and  set  for  3  to  5  minutes  where'  it  will  keep  hot  but 
without  boiling.  English  breakfast  tea  may  stand  3,  and  black  tea  5 
minutes;  then  pour  into  the  cups. 

ICED  TEA  {Russian  Recipe). — Tea  for  icing  should  be  made 
rather  stronger  than  when  intended  for  drinking  hot,  letting  the 
boiling  water  stand  on  the  tea  for  7  minutes;  then  pour  the  tea  from 
the  leaves,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  stand  it  in  a  refrigerator  for  5  or  6 
hours.  Serve  it  in  a  bowl  with  lumps  of  ice  and  slices  of  lemon 
floating  in  it.  Have  a  pitcher  of  ice  water  at  hand  to  weaken  it  for 
those  who  think  it  too  strong.  In  serving  it  each  person  should 
receive  a  lump  of  ice  and  a  slice  of  lemon. 

654 


BEVERAGES  655 

Iced  Tea  No.  2. — For  each  tumbler  of  water  allow  1  teaspoon  of 
the  best  tea;  put  the  tea,  water  and  lumps  of  ice  into  an  earthen  ves- 
sel and  stand  in  the  refrigerator  5  or  6  hours.  Easier  than  the  for- 
mer method. 

ORANGE  TEA — Slice  a  tart  orange,  peel  and  all,  place  a  slice 
in  each  cui3,  and  fill  with  hot  tea. 

The  Pbinciples  Inyolved. — Experiments  have  shown  that  five=sixths  of  the 
valuable  qualities  are  extracted  from  tea  by  boiling  water  in  3  minutes,  and  in 
10  minutes  the  leaves  are  nearly  exhausted.  If  the  leaves  are  steeped  a  second 
time,  or  if  they  remain  too  long  in  the  hot  water,  the  aroma  is  wasted,  the  tannin 
is  extracted  which  makes  the  tea  bitter,  and  it  then  disorders  the  digestion.  Much 
of  the  evil  wrought  by  tea  is  caused  by  this  too  long  infusion  which  extracts  a 
large  part  of  its  tannin. 

The  object  to  aim  at  is  to  extract  as  much  as  possible  of  the  theine  and  vola- 
tile oil,  and  as  little  as  possible  of  the  tannin.  When  the  infusion  is  once  com- 
plete, adding  fresh  tea  adds  very  little  to  the  strength;  if  more  tea  is  wanted, 
empty  out  the  old  leaves,  scald  the  pot,  and  make  fresh  tea  as  before. 

Essentials  of  Making  Tea — The  following  are  the  4  essentials  for 
good  tea:  (1)  Use  good  tea,  and  have  the  right  amount  of  it.  (2) 
Have  the  water  'boiling  hot  (not  lukewarm)  when  poured  on.  (3) 
Have  the  teapot  hot  before  the  tea  and  water  are  put  in.  (4)  Do  not 
let  it  steep  too  long.     Stewed  tea  is  no  good. 

If  Tea  Is  Required  Quickly,  put  it  into  the  teapot  and  stand  it  in 
the  oven  while  the  water  is  coming  to  the  boil;  as  soon  as  that  is  boil- 
ing hot  pour  it  on  the  tea,  and  in  a  minute  it  can  be  served. 

The  Teapot. — A  china  teapot  is  the  best  to  use.  Do  not  use  tin, 
because  a  poisonous  compound  is  produced  by  the  action  on  the 
metal  of  the  tannic  acid  of  the  tea.  The  teapot  should  be  clean  and 
dry  before  using. 

The  Water  Used. — In  making  tea  the  water  used  is  an  important 
consideration.  Soft  water  is  better  than  hard,  but  if  it  is  too  soft 
it  is  apt  to  extract  too  much  of  the  general  properties  of  the  tea  and 
sacrifice  its  delicacy  of  flavor,  and  if  too  hard  it  does  not  extract  the 
theine  and  volatile  oil  readily  enough.  Do  not  use  water  which  has 
been  twice  boiled,  or  which  has  boiled  long  before  being  used,  be- 
cause boiling  expels  the  air  and  gasses  and  makes  the  water  flat  and 
tasteless.  This  is  really  an  important  item — far  more  important  than 
many  people  imagine.  The  more  rapidly  the  water  is  heated  the  bet- 
ter the  tea.  When  the  water  is  poured  on  the  tea  it  should  be  boiling 
hot,  and  not  either  cold  or  lukewarm,  and  it  should  be  poured  on  as 
soon  as  it  boils.  If  poured  on  cold  and  brought  to  a  boil  it  will 
extract  the  tannic  acid,  injuring  both  the  flavor  and  the  value  of  the 
tea.  Carbonate  of  soda  has  been  sometimes  used  in  making  tea;  it 
may  soften  very  hard  water,  but  it  will  spoil  the  flavor  and  effect  of 
the  tea. 


556  BEVERAGES 

Hints. — With  some  persons  the  sleeplessness  and  headache  caused 
by  drinking  tea  is  prevented  by  putting  in  a  slice  of  lemon  instead  of 
the  milk. 

Weak  green  tea  with  a  little  sugar  and  lemon  juice  in  it,  but  no 
milk,  is  a  very  refreshing  drink  in  cases  of  fever,  taken  either  hot  oi 
cold. 

The  tea  plant  (Thea  sinensis)  is  native  to  China,  Japan  and  Northern  India. 
The  use  of  the  dried  leaves  is  said  to  have  been  introduced  into  China  from  Corea 
in  the  4th  century,  and  from  thence  to  Japan,  and  to  have  been  brought  to  Europe' 
by  the  Dutch  East  India  Company  in  the  17th  century.      The 
leaves  of  the  tea  plant  can  only  be  gathered  at  certain    sea- 
sons.    The  first  picking  is  in  April.     It  yields  the  finest  tea, 
but  little  of  it  is  shipped  abroad,  as  a  sea  voyage  injures  its 
delicate  flavor.      This  tea  is  largely  used  by   the  wealthy  Chi- 
nese, and  some  of  it  is  carried  overland  to  Russia.     The  next 
picking  is  in  May,  and  a  third,  later   in  the  season,  furnishes 
the  inferior  teas  which  are  bitterer  and  more  woody  than  that 
gathered  earlier. 

Tea  leaves  are  dried  in  pans  which  are  heated  over  smoke- 
less fires.  Green  teas  are  dried  quickly  to  preserve  their  color, 
while  black  teas  are  exposed  to  the  air  for  a  time  and  undergo 
a  sort  of  fermentation  which  darkens  them.  In  tea  producing 
countries  the  decoction  is  drunk  alone  without  flavoring;  in 
other  countries  something  is  added.  The  Germans  often  flavor  it  with  rum,  cinna- 
mon or  vanilla.  The  Russians  squeeze  in  lemon  juice,  while  some  savage  tribes 
in  Tartary  boil  the  leaves  with  soda,  season  them  with  butter  and  salt,  and  eat 
them. 

Tea  contains  an  alkaloid  called  theine,  which  is  similar  to  the  caffeine  in  coffee, 
and  theobromine  in  cocoa.  Besides  this  it  contains  a  volatile  oil,  some  tannic  acid, 
and  some  ordinary  food  substances.  Its  volatile  or  essential  oil  is  develojjcd  dur- 
ing drying  and  roasting,  and  ought  not  to  escape,  as  upon  this  its  market  value 
depends  more  than  on  anything  else.  The  volatile  oil,  as  well  as  the  theine  and 
tannin,  is  more  abundant  in  green  than  in  black  tea.  As  ordinarily  made,  3  times 
as  much  theine  is  obtained  from  tea  as  from  coffee. 

The  nutritive  element  in  tea  is  very  small,  it  being  a  stimulant  rather  than  a 
food,  but,  "it  aids  the  assimilation  and  transformation  of  other  foods,  increases 
cheerfulness  and  activity,  clears  and  quickens  the  brain,  and  lessens  the  desire  to 
sleep."  It  warms  the  body  when  cold,  cools  it  when  hot  by  promoting  the  perspi- 
ration of  the  skin,  and  has  an  astrinf^cnt  action  on  the  bowels.  Tea  contains  from 
2  to  4:%  of  theine,  about  1^  of  essential  oil,  life  of  tannin,  and  20;^  of  nitrogenous  mat- 
ter insoluble  in  water.  Taken  to  excess  it  acts  like  a  vegetable  poison,  and  with 
young  people  it  is  liable  to  interfere  with  the  proper  development  of  the  nervous 
system. 

COFFEE. 

It  is  safe  to  say  that  a  large  percentage  of  the  people  who  use 
coffee  never  drank  a  really  first  class  cup  of  it,  and  a  large  projjortion 
of  the  stuff  served  as  coffee  is  unworthy  of  the  name.  And  yet  good 
coffee  is  not  difficult  to  make  if  it  is  handled  intelligently. 

The  water  used  should  be  fresh  and  clear.  Long  boiling  of  the 
water  expels  the  air  and  gases,  and  makes  it  flat  and  insipid.  It 
should  therefore  be  used  as  soon  as  it  boils,  and  this  is  a  much  more 
important  item  than  many  people  imagine.  Do  not  reboil  the  water, 
nor  let  it  boil  long  before  being  used,  or  the  best  results  cannot  be 
obtained. 


BEVERAGES  557 

The  roasting  of  the  coffee  is  also  an  important  matter.  It  is  best 
roasted  and  ground  just  before  it  is  used.  If  more  is  roasted  than 
needed,  for  immediate  use  it  should  be  kept  in  an  airtight  glass  jar  or 
canister;  if  exposed  to  the  air  it  deteriorates.  Unpleasant  odors  and 
moisture  are  readily  absorbed  by  it,  so  keep  it  in  a  dry  and  clean 
place.  To  roast  coffee,  put  the  desired  quantity  into  a  perfectly 
clean,  broad  dripping  X3an;  have  a  moderate  heat  at  first,  shake  and 
stir  frequently;  after  20  or  30  minutes  increase  the  heat  and  stir  fre- 
quently until  it  is  an  even  chestnut  or  "  coffee  color."  If  any  berries 
are  burned  they  must  be  picked  out  and  thrown  away,  or  they  will 
spoil  the  coffee.  Remember  that  the  peculiar  and  delightful  aroma 
of  coffee  is  due  to  the  changes  in  one  or  more  oils  produced  by  this 
roasting;  in  raw  berries  it  is  lacking.  When  properly  roasted  the.se 
elements  constitute  about  13%  of  the  berry.  If  not  heated  suffi- 
ciently the  aroma  is  not  properly  developed;  if  heated  too  much  the 
flavor  is  again  dissipated. 

When  the  berries  are  properly  browned,  lift  the  pan  from  the 
stove  to  the  table  and  stir  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  the  beaten 
white  of  2  eggs  to  each  jpound  of  coffee,  stirring  it  quickly  and  .well 
that  each  berry  may  be  glazed.  This  helps  to  develop  the  aroma,  and 
also  to  confine  it  in  the  berry  until  let  out  by  grinding.  All  the  cof- 
fee which  is  not  used  at  once  should  be  put  into  a  sieve,  when 
cold,  and  shaken  to  break  apart  any  berries  which  stick  together; 
then  put  it  into  an  air-tight  canister. 

If  coffee  is  bought  at  the  store,  roasted  but  not  ground,  each 
time  any  is  used  put  into  the  frying=pan  what  you  want  for  that  meal, 
but  no  more;  heat  it  over  a  quick  fire  until  the  aroma  is  perceptible, 
shaking  it  constantly  and  adding  barely  enough  butter  to  gloss  but 
not  make  it  greasy;  then  grind  it  at  once  and  use  it.  If  it  was 
ground  at  home  and  buttered,  reheat  it  and  use  the  same  way,  but 
without  buttering  it.  This  freshens  it  and  develops  its  aroma.  Re- 
member that  the  coffee  should  always  go  hot  from  the  frying-pan  to 
the  coffee  mill,  and  from  the  mill  to  the  coffee  pot,  if  you  want  the 
best  results.  If  ground  coffee  is  used,  that  can  also  be  heated  until 
the  aroma  is  perceptible,  before  adding  the  water. 

Grinding  the  Coffee. — Be  sure  your  coffee  is  ground  right.  Most 
grocers  grind  the  coffee  too  coarse,  so  that  much  more  coffee  is  used 
than  necessary,  because  in  coarse  coffee  the  flavor  is  not  readily  ex- 
tracted. If  you  grind  it  yourself  make  it  about  like  coarse  corumeal 
—not  coarser  than  that.  If  your  grocer  grinds  it  make  him  grind  it 
the  same  way.  He  may  not  like  to,  but  it  is  the  best  and  most  eco- 
nomical way  and  insist  on  it.     If  it  is  too  fine  (say  as  fine  as  flour),  on 


558  BEVEKAGES 

the  other  hand,  it  will  clog  the  strainer.  It  is  too  coarse  if  it  is  like 
rice  or  coarse  oatmeal. 

Over=boiling.^The  tannic  acid  in  coffee  should  not  be  extracted  or 
it  will  make  the  coffee  bitter,  and  it  will  also  disorder  the  stom- 
ach more;  5  minutes  is  the  limit  to  which  coffee  should  be  boiled  to 
avoid  this,  while  3  minutes  is  better.  It  is  an  erroneous  idea  that  the 
longer  coffee  boils  the  stronger  and  better  it  is.  After  the  caffeine 
and  aroma  are  extracted,  further  boiling  is  a  detriment.  Cover  the 
spout  also  when  boiling  coffee  in  a  coffee  pot,  that  the  aroma  may  not 
escape  through  it.  The  one  great  object  in  making  coffee  is  to  ex- 
tract and  retain  the  caffeine  and  aromatic  essential  oils,  icithout  ex- 
tracting the  tannin,  and  any  method  which  does  this  is  a  good 
method. 

The  Cream  and  Sugar — The  milk  served  with  coffee  should  be 
scalding  hot,  but  should  not  be  boiled.  A  pitcher  of  milk  can  be  set 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  brought  nearly  to  the  boiling  point  day 
after  day,  without  injuring  the  china.  Some  persons  find  the  taste  of 
boiled  milk  objectionable.  Serve  cream  also  if  you  can;  1  tablespoon 
of  cream  and  2  of  hot  milk  is  about  right.  If  the  coffee  is  very 
strong,  fill  the  cup  ^  to  ^  full  of  coffee,  and  fill  it  up  with  hot  milk; 
this  is  much  better  than  diluting  the  coffee  with  water.  Never  fill  a 
cup  quite  full — it  must  not  run  over.  Allow  each  guest  to  add  the 
sugar  to  his  taste,  unless  it  is  one  of  the  family  whose  taste  you 
know.  A  very  pretty  effect  is  j)roduced  by  placing  on  the  surface  of 
each  cup  a  teaspoon  of  whipped  cream. 

Settling  the  Coffee. — Isinglass,  fish  skins,  eggs  and  cold  water  are 
used  to  clear  or  settle  coffee.  Egg  shells  can  be  washed  and  saved 
for  this  purpose,  2  or  3  of  them  being  enough  to  clear  a  quart  of 
coffee;  they  answer  about  as  well  as  the  egg  itself,  and  are  less  expen- 
sive. 

The  Coffee  Pot. — As  good  coffee  as  was  ever  tasted  can  be  made 
with  a  common  coffee  pot,  but  some  prefer  a  French  biggin  or  some 
other  device.  Those  who  like  these  improvements  and  find  them  a 
help  can  use  them,  but  do  not  imagine  that  they  are  really  necessary 
in  order  to  make  good  coffee,  for  they  are  not.  But  whatever  coffee 
pot  is  used  must  be  absolutely  clean — not  even  milk  pans  require 
more  scrupulous  cleanliness. 

Every  time  the  coffee  pot  is  used  it  should  be  thoroughly 
cleaned,  spout  and  all.  If  neglected,  or  if  the  coffee  is  allowed  to 
stand  long  in  the  pot,  a  sort  of  black,  greasy  deposit  will  form  on  the 
inside,  and  it  will  spoil  all  coffee  made  in  the  pot  while  it  is  there. 
So  wash,  scald  and  dry  the  pot  each  time  after  being  used.      Dry 


BEVEKAGES  559 

eacli  piece  of  a  Frencli  coffee  pot  separately.  Scald  it  out  with  liot 
water — cold  water  sets  the  greasy  jBlm,  and  is  worse  than  useless.  Do 
not  use  any  soap  or  soapy  water,  but/?'es/i,  liot  water  merely. 

If  the  pot  has  been  neglected,  and  is  coated,  put  in  a  tablespoon 
of  washing  soda,  fill  it  with  water,  and  boil  it  for  a  long  time;  then 
scrub  it  out  well,  rinse  it  with  hot  water,  and  dry  it.  Boil  the 
strainers  and  all  parts  in  the  soda  water,  and  scrub  them  also.  Do 
not  heat  the  coffee  pot  too  hot  in  drying  it,  or  the  next  coffee  made 
in  it  will  taste  burnt. 

Essentials  of  Making  Coffee.— The  essentials  of  making  good  coffee 
are  the  following:  (1)  Have  good  coffee,  and  use  the  right  ciuantity 
of  it.  (2)  Have  it  hot  so  that  there  is  a  perceptible  smell  of  the 
aroma  before  it  goes  to  the  coffee  pot.  (3)  Cook  it  just  long  enough 
to  extract  all  the  caffeine  and  aroma,  without  getting  the  tannic  acid. 
(4)  Serve  it  hot  at  once,  and  with  hot  milk.  (5)  Be  sure  the  coffee 
pot  is  clean  and  in  good  condition. 

There  are  many  ways  of  making  coffee.  It  may  be  boiled  or 
unboiled,  made  in  a  plain  coffee  pot  or  a  French  biggin  or  "grecque" 
and  so  on.  While  the  object  aimed  at  is  the  same  in  all  cases,  the 
modus  operandi  must  vary  with  the  coffee  pot  used,  etc.  We  will 
explain  a  few  of  the  best  methods,  with  and  without  the  biggin. 
But  remember  that  by  no  process  will  the  result  be  satisfactory 
unless  good  coffee  is  used,  and,  also,  if  you  would  have  really  good 
coffee  you  must  take  pains  with  it.  If  you  will  observe  the  princi- 
ples which  underlie  the  process  you  can  serve  up  most  delicious 
coffee  which  will  make  glad  the  hearts  of  those  who  drink  it. 

Amount  of  Coffee  to  Use. — Allow  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  ground 
coffee  for  each  cup  of  water;  this  is  the  standard  rule,  but  if  a  large 
quantity  is  made  the  proportion  can  be  a  little  less. 

FILTERED  COFFEE  WITHOUT  EGG.— Have  the  coffee 
heated  hot,  pour  on  the  water  boiling  hot,  cover  closely,  let  it  stand  5 
minutes,  strain  it  through  muslin  (having  it  wrung  out  of  hot  water) 
into  the  coffee  pot  (having  that  heated);  cover  it,  set  it  on  the  stove 
and  heat  a  moment  (not  boil)  and  serve.  Have  the  milk  thoroughly 
hot.  The  coffee  may  be  heated  in  a  pan  or  pitcher  if  more  conven- 
ient. 

BOILED  COFFEE  WITHOUT  EGG.— Scald  the  coffee  pot;  put 
in  the  coffee,  pour  on  the  water  boiling  hot,  stir  it  well,  bring  it  to  a 
boil,  move  it  to  the  back  of  the  range  keeping  it  hot,  ivitho,(f  further 
boiling;  add  |  cup  of  cold  water,  let  stand  5  minutes,  turn  out  1  cup 
coffee,  pour  back  into  the  pot,  do  the  same  agaiu,  let  stand  5  minutes 


560  BEVERAGES 

to  settle,  and  serve.     Boiled  coflPee  has  a  different  flavor  from  the 
filtered,  and  many  prefer  it. 

BOILED  COFFEE  WITH  EQQ — Scald  the  cofPee  pot;  put  in 
the  coffee  and  egg  shell,  (or  the  egg  or  isinglass  if  they  are  used 
instead);  add  the  water,  boiling  hot,  cover  closely,  and  boil  3  to  5 
minutes — no  more.  Set  where  it  will  keep  hot  but  not  boil;  pour  in 
^  cup  of  cold  water;  pour  out  1  cup  of  coffee  to  clear  the  spout,  and 
pour  it  back  again;  let  stand  10  minutes,  and  serve. 

FRENCH  COFFEE  WITH  COLD  WATER — Heat  the  coffee, 
put  it  in  the  filter  of  a  French  coffee  pot  or  biggin,  add  a  very  little 
cold  water,  a  tablespoon  at  a  time;  let  it  stand  30  to  60  minutes,  then 
pour  in  the  balance  of  the  water  slowly,  a  cupful  at  a  time;  when  it 
has  all  filtered  through  turn  it  out,  and  pour  it  through  the  filter 
again;  cover  it  tightly,  and  when  ready  to  serve  bring  it  just  to  a 
boil  (never  boil  it)  and  serve  immediately.  Coffee  can  be  made  thus 
at  your  leisure,  and  not  heated  until  ready  to  serve  it. 

FRENCH  COFFEE  WITH  BOILING  WATER.— Heat  the  cof- 
fee, put  it  into  the  filter  of  the  biggin,  and  pour  on  just  enough 
boiling  water  to  moisten  it  well;  let  stand  5  minutes,  and  pour  on  the 
balance  of  the  water  slowly,  a  cupful  at  a  time,  and  wait  2  or  3  min- 
utes between  each  cup;  if  wanted  very  strong  turn  out  the  coffee  and 
pour  it  through  the  filter  again;  serve  at  once.  This  coffee  should 
never  boil;  the  best  way  to  avoid  this  is  to  set  the  coffee  pot  in  a  pan 
of  boiling  water  while  the  water  is  being  filtered  through  the  coffee. 

COFFEE  BY  A  SIMPLE  METHOD— Heat  the  coffee  and  tie  it  in 
a  muslin  bag;  scald  the  coffee  pot,  suspend  the  bag  in  it,  pour  on  the 
water  boiling  hoi  (be  sure  it  covers  the  bag),  let  it  stand  10  minutes 
where  it  will  keep  hot  but  not  boil,  and  serve.  This  answers  some- 
what the  same  purpose  as  the  French  biggin,  but  can  be  used  by 
those  who  do  not  have  one. 

STEAMED  COFFEE.— This  can  be  made  in  a  double  boiler 
kept  for  the  purpose,  or  by  setting  the  coffee  pot  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water;  steam  20  minutes,  then  strain  it  into  a  heated  coffee  pot,  and 
serve. 

COFFEE  WITH  COLD  WATER.— Let  the  coffee  and  water 
stand  all  night  in  an  earthen  or  china  pot,  closely  covered;  in  the 
morning  bring  to  the  boiling  point  merely,  and  serve.  No  clearing 
or  straining  is  needed. 

CAFE  NOIR.— This  is  a  French  term  meaning  literally  "  black 
coffee."      It  can  be  made  like  other  coffee,  but  very  strong,  using 


BEVEKAGES  561 

twice  as  much  coffee  (2  tablespoons)  for  each  cup  of  water.  It  is 
served  in  small  cups  with  sugar,  but  no  milk  or  cream  are  served 
with  it. 

CAFE  AU  LAIT. — This  is  a  French  term  meaning  "  coffee  and 
milk."  It  is  simply  very  strong  coffee,  to  which  is  added  a  large 
proportion  of  good  hot  milk — half  and  half  being  the  proportions. 
Sweeten  to  taste. 

VIENNA  COFFEE. — This  consists  simply  in  adding  to  each 
cup  of  coffee  3  tablespoons  of  whipped  cream.  Equal  parts  of 
whipped  cream  and  beaten  white  of  egg  are  sometimes  used. 

ICED  COFFEE — Make  a  quart  of  extra  strong  coffee  and  let  it 
get  cold;  beat  2  eggs  very  light,  stir  into  them  2  cups  milk  and  4 
tablespoons  cream;  sweeten  to  taste,  and  stand  in  the  refrigerator  5 
or  6  hours.  Serve  with  a  lump  of  ice  in  the  pitcher.  If  no  refriger- 
ator is  at  hand  the  pitcher  can  be  set  for  1  hour  in  a  i^ail  of  ice  and 
salt  (|-  ice  to  ^  salt);  take  care  that  it  does  not  freeze.  Iced  tea  can 
be  cooled  the  same  way. 

CARAMEL  COFFEE — Use  caramel  made  as  directed  for  "Pre- 
pared Caramel"  in  the  article  on  "Colors  for  Frosting,  etc.,"  in  the 
chapter  on  "Cake."  Add  1  teaspoon  of  good  ground  coffee  for  each  ^ 
cup  of  the  caramel;  let  it  boil  for  a  minute,  strain  it,  and  add  an 
equal'amount  of  hot  milk,  or  milk  and  cream.  Children  like  it;  so 
do  "  children  of  a  larger  growth." 

SUBSTITUTES  FOR  COFFEE.— Take  4  cups  unground  loheat 
or  rye,  add  |-  cup  molasses,  rub  all  together  with  your  hands,  and 
brown  it  in  the  oven  like  genuine  coffee.  When  used,  grind  and  put 
it  in  a  muslin  bag  and  boil  it  in  a  coffee  pot;  very  good  and  slightly 
nutritious.  If  desired,  it  can  be  mixed  with  genuine  coffee  when 
used. 

Oatmeal,  grouad  barley  or  graham  flour  can  be  browned  and  used 
also.  In  using  them  allow  1  tablespoon  to  a  cup  of  water;  moisten  it 
with  a  little  cold  water,  pour  on  the  water  boiling  hot,  and  let  stand 
10  minutes. 

Corn  Coffee. — Roasted  sweet  corn,  browned  without  pojjping  or 
hardening,  is  easily  broken  in  a  mortar,  and  makes  a  delicious  drink 
for  invalids,  children,  and  those  who  cannot  drink  coffee.     Try  it. 

Cornmeal  can  also  be  roasted  brown  and  used;  boil  5  minutes  and 
strain;  a  little  salt  can  be  added  to  improve  the  flavor. 

These  substitutes  for  coffee  contain   no  caffeine,  nor  anythiii},'  similar  to  it.  so 
than  they  possess  no  power  as  stimulants.       Their  value  is  simply  that  of  hot  water 
containing  a  little  flavoring  and  nourishment,  which  is  increased  by  the  milk  and 
sugar  used. 
36 


562 


BEVERAGES 


COFFEE. 


Coffee. — The  origin  of  the  use  of  coffee  is  involved  in 
obscurity.  It  was  not  known  to  the  Greeks  and  Romans.  It 
was  introduced  into  Europe  in  the  17th  century.  Mocha  is  an 
Arabian  coffee.  The  brands  from  Central  and  South  America 
were  formerly  considered  inferior,  but  some  of  the  best  cofifees 
now  come  from  those  regions.  Maracaibo  is  often  sold  for  Java, 
and  is  quite  as  good.  Unground  coSee  is  adulterated  very  little, 
but  the  ground  coffee  is  almost  universally  adulterated. 

"Coffee,"  says  Prof.  Johnstone,  "exhilarates,  arouses  and. 
keeps  awake;  it  counteracts  the  stupor  occasioned  by  fatigue,  by 
disease,  or  opium.  It  allays  hunger  to  a  certain  extent;  it  gives 
to  the  weary  increased  strength  and  vigor,  and  it  imparts  a  feel- 
ing of  comfort  and  repose."  It  appears  to  make  the  brain  more 
active,  and  the  demand  for  food  less,  by  checking  the  change  and 
waste  of  the  body.  Taken  in  excess,  it  produces  tremors  and 
contractions  of  the  muscles,  and  an  exhilaration  somewhat  like  that  of  alcohol.  It 
is  not  so  stimulating  as  tea,  and  it  does  not  increase  the  perspiration  so  much.  It 
owes  its  stimulating  effect  to  the  caffeine  and  aromatic  oils.  It  contains  only 
about  1%  of  caffeine  and  ifc  of  tannin,  and  is  therefore  less  injurious  than  tea  to  the 
coatings  of  the  stomach. 

Coffee  loses  20  to  30^  in  roasting,  but  the  roasting  accomplishes  several  things. 
It  makes  it  brittle  and  easily  ground;  the  aromatic  properties  are  developed  as 
previously  explained;  the  tannin  and  other  properties  are  rendered  partly  soluble 
in  water,  and  its  sugar  is  all  converted  into  caramel;  this  gives  color  and  part  of 
the  flavor  to  the  coffee. 

The  color  and  flavor  may  be  increased  by  mixing  a  little  caramel  with  the 
ground  coffee,  a  fact  which  many  people  do  not  understand. 

Mixing  Coffee. — Coffee  can  be  mixed  to  obtain  different  flavors.  Rio  and  San- 
tas are  strong,  while  Java,  Mocha,  and  Maracaibo  are  mild  coffees.  A  rich,  deli- 
cate flavored  coffee  is  obtained  by  using  Vg  Java  and  %  Mocha,  and  that  is  proba- 
bly the  most  popular  mixture.  Some  mix  them  half  and  half.  For  a  strong  cof- 
fee use  Rio  alone,  or  temper  it  as  desired  by  mixing  some  of  the  milder  brands 
with  it.     Some  people  like  equal  parts  of  Rio,  Mocha  and  Java. 

Keeping  Coffee. — Green  coffee,  that  is  the  unroasted  bean,  not  only  does  riot  lose 
its  flavor  but  actually  improves,  by  keeping  for  2  or  3  years.  It  can  advanta- 
geously be  bought  by  the  sack  when  the  market  is  favorable,  and  it  should  be  of  a 
yellowish  or  brownish  shade  and  well  seasoned.  Store  it  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 
As  coffee  readily  absorbs  bad  odors  nothing  strongly  odorous  should  be  stored 
near  it;  much  coffee  has  thus  been  ruined. 

Chicoky. — This  is  prepared  by  cutting  the  roots  of  the 
chicory  plant  {Cicorium  intibns)  into  small  pieces  and  roast- 
ing them,  much  as  coffee  is  roasted.  It  was  first  mixed  with 
coffee  by  the  Dutch,  but  is  now  used  in  all  countries.  While 
it  is  properly  an  adulteration,  it  is  not  deleterious.  It  does 
not  possess  any  trace  of  the  alkaloid  caffeine,  which  is  one 
of  the  peculiar  properties  of  coffee,  but  it  does  possess  an 
aromatic  oil,  starch,  sugar  (which  will  turn  to  caramel  in 
roasting)  nitrogenous  substances  and  salts.  It  is  used  by 
some  people  as  an  independent  beverage.  It  will  give  body, 
color  and  bitterness  to  coffee,  and  possibly  modify  its  stim- 
ulant effect  by  acting  as  a  diuretic,  sedative  and  tonic.  Some  housekeepers  add 
chicory  to  their  coffee,  using  1  to  4  oz.  of  chicory  to  a  pound  of  coffee.  Unfortn- 
nately,  chicory  is  often  adulterated,  as  well  as  coffee. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Whipped  Cream  is  best  to  serve  with  chocolate.  It  can  be  whipped 
with  a  Dover  egg  beater,  and  |-  pint  is  enough  for  a  dozen  cups. 

TO  MAKE  CHOCOLATE.— Put  the  grated  chocolate  in  a  sauce= 
pan  and  dissolve  it  in  a  very  little  boiling  water;  then  add  the  de- 
sired amount  of  cold  milk,  bring  it  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  it  is  ready  to 
serve. 


OHIOOBY. 


BEVEKAOES  563 

The  Spaniards  mix  chocolate  so  thick  that  a  spoon  can  stand  up  in  it.  Choc- 
olate is,  much  improved  by  frosting,  but  to  do  this  properly  a  French  or  Italian 
chocolatiere  is  required,  with  a  ■whisk  passed  through  the  lid  so  that  it  can  be 
whisked  while  coming  to  the  boil. 

CHOCOLATE  "MAILLARD'S  STYLE."— Put  into  a  saucepan 
f  cup  of  sugar,  a  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  cup  grated  chocolate  aud  1  cup 
boiling  water  and  stir  until  smooth;  then  add  1  cup  boiling  water 
and  2  cups  boiling  milk  and  boil  1  minute  only.  In  ^  cup  of  cold 
milk  dissolve  1  level  teaspoon  of  corn^starch;  stir  it  in,  boil  1  minute 
more,  take  from  the  fire,  add  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  flavor,  and  serve. 
The  salt,  corn=starch  and  vanilla  add  to  its  richness  and  flavor. 

CHOCOLATE  WITH  EGG.— Allow  for  each  person  1  large  ta- 
blespoon of  grated  chocolate;  put  it  in  a  sauce=pan  and  slowly  add 
boiling  water,  stirring  and  boiling  a  little  until  it  thickens;  then  pour 
in  enough  milk  to  cool  it,  sweeten  with  sugar,  and  stir  in  1  or  2  eggs 
well  beaten,  using  more  or  less  as  desired;  make  up  the  desired  quan- 
tity by  adding  milk,  or  milk  and  water,  and  simmer;  not  boil,  10 
minutes;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  serve.  If  allowed  to  boil  after  add- 
ing the  eggs  they  will  become  "curdled." 

CHOC  A — This  is  caf6  au  lait  and  chocolate  mixed  in  equal 
quantities.     Many  people  like  it  for  breakfast. 

COCOA. 
TO  MAKE  COCOA — To  |  gallon  of  water  add  1  gill  of  broken 
cocoa,  and  let  it  boil  gently  until  reduced  -^  (about  2  hours);  equal 
parts  of  shells  and  cocoa  can  be  used  if  preferred.  If  it  cools  and 
the  fat  is  taken  from  the  surface,  and  it  is  then  heated  again,  it  will 
digest  more  easily.  Serve  with  cream,  or  scalded  milk,  and  sugar. 
Cocoa  can  be  flavored  by  adding  a  little  vanilla  extract  if  desired. 
In  Spain,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  musk  are  also  used  to  flavor  it. 

TO  USE  PREPARED  COCOA.— Allow  2  teaspoons  to  a  cup-, 
add  enough  cold  milk  to  form  a  smooth  paste,  then  add  equal  parts 
boiling  milk  and  boiling  water,  and  stir  all  together  well.  There  are 
many  preparations  of  cocoa,  some  of  which  are  recommended  for 
preparation  at  the  table,  but  all  cocoa  is  better  for  being  boiled  1  or 
2  minutes.     Use  hot  milk  to  dilute  it. 

COCOA  SHELLS. — In  use  allow  \  cup  of  the  shells  to  1  cup  of 
water;  pour  on  the  water  boiling  hot  and  lot  them  simmer  gently  3  or 
4  hours;  as  the  water  boils  away  add  more;  then  strain,  and  serve. 
Sugar  and  cream,  or  hot  milk,  goes  with  it. 


564 


BEVERAGES 


ICED  COCOA.— Make  the  cocoa  in  the  usual  way,  and  for  each  2 
cups  beat  in  |  cup  whipped  cream;  sweeten  to  taste,  let  stand  till 
cold,  and  serve  in  glasses  containing  a  little  chipped. ice. 


Cocoa    is    made   from  the    seeds  of  the  Theobromo  cacao, 
grows  in  Central  and  South  America  and  the  West  Indies.     (Th 


COCOA    BEAN. 


as  an  adulteration. 


small  tree  which 
bromo  means  lit- 
erally "  food  of  the  Gods,"  a  name  given  it  by  Linnaeus  who  was  excessively  fond 
of  chocolate).  The  fruit  is  shaped  something  like  a  cu- 
cumber; the  outside  skin  is  thick,  the  pulp  sweet  and 
palatable;  the  seeds  are  much  like  almonds,  witha  thin 
skin,  and  the  kernel  is  dark,  bitter,  oily  and  aromatic. 

Cocoa  shells  are  the  husks  or  shells.  They  contain 
little  fat,  but  have  more  astringent  matter  than  the  seeds. 
They  make  a  i^leasant  and  wholesome  drink,  not  stimu- 
lating, and  well  suited  to  nervous  invalids  and  children. 
They  need  long  boiling.  An  inferior  cocoa  is  sometimes 
made  by  grinding  the  shells  with  the  seeds. 

Cocoa  nibs  are  the  seeds  freed  from  the  husks,  roast- 
ed and  cracked,  but  not  ground,  although  some  of  the  fat 
is  usually  removed.  Prepared  cocoa  is  made  by  grind- 
ing the  kernel  to  powder,  removing  some  of  the  fat,  and 
adding  a  certain  amount  of  sugar  and  starch.  Some  of 
the  husk  is  ground  and  added  to  many  of  the  cheaper  cocoas. 

The  cocoa  bean  contains  about  1%  of  theobromine,  which  is  an  alkaloid  much 
like  caffeine  and  theine;  about  50^  of  fat;  from  U%  to  18^  of  nitrogenous  substance, 
^4  of  which  is  soluble  in  water;  i%  of  starch,  and  about  7%  of  an  astringent  princi- 
ple much  like  tannin. 

Chocolate  is  made  from  cocoa  nibs  ground  into  a  paste  by  machinery,  mixed 
with  sugar,  flavored,  and  pressed  into  molds  of  various  shapes.  It  is  the  most  con- 
venient and  nutritious  way  of  preparing  cocoa. 
It  does  not  stimulate  the  nervous  system  as  much 
as  tea  and  coffee  do,  and  it  is  food  as  well  as  drink, 
satisfying  hunger  to  some  extent.  Delicate  stom- 
achs will  digest  it  more  readily  if  the  oily  scum  is 
removed  from  the  surface  after  it  is  boiled,  but  for 
healthy  beople  the  scum  is  nutritious  and  need  not 
be  removed. 

Coca  is  the  dried  leaf  of  the  Enjfhroxylon  Co- 
ca, a  plant  resembling  the  blackthorn.  It  is  used 
by  the  inhabitants  of  Peru  and  Bolivia,  who  chew 
the  leaves  and  make  an  infusion  of  them.  It  is  es- 
timated that  8,000,000  people  use  it,  but  it  is  little 
used  in  this  country,  except  by  a  few  cyclists  or' 
pedestrians.  It  derives  its  special  properties  from 
the  alkaloid  cocaine.  It  is  a  powerful  stimulant  to 
the  nervous  system  and  enables  fatigue  to  be  borne 
more  easily  for  a  time,  but  there  is  some  uncer- 
tainty about  the  exact  effects  of  its  continued  use. 

Mate,  ob  Paraguay  Tea  is  prepared  from  the 
Brazillian  holly.  It  is  used  in  Paraguay  and  Bra- 
zil, but  very  little  in  this  country.     It  contains  1  or 

2^  of  theine,  about  16^  of  tannin,  some  aromatic  oil,  and  gluten.  It  acts  mainly 
on  the  nervous  system,  but  also  affects  the  digestive  system.  It  is  not  suitable  for 
general  consumption,  and  is  very  injurious  if  habitually  used. 

MISCELLANEOUS  BEVERAGES. 
APPLE  WATER. — Take  tart  apples,  quarter  and  core;  add  \  their 
weight   of   sugar,   cover  with  water,  and  simmer  till  tender;  strain 
through  a  jelly  bag  and  cool.     Put  pounded  ice  in  the  glass  when 
you  drink  it. 


MATE  OK  PARAGUAY  TEA. 


BEVERAGES  565 

BLACKBERRY  NECTAR.— Crush  the  berries,  add  an  equal 
amount  of  water,  and  1  teaspoon  orange  juice  and  1  sliced  lemon  to 
each  2  quarts;  let  stand  4  hours,  strain  through  flannel,  and  to  1 
quart  of  juice  add  1  cup  sugar.     Kee^o  on  ice  till  ready  to  serve. 

CHERRY  ACID — Dissolve  8  oz.  citric  acid  in  1  quart  water; 
pour  it  on  a  bowl  of  cherries  and  let  stand  6  or  8  hours;  strain  off  the 
juice,  pour  it  over  another  bowl  of  cherries  and  let  stand  the  same 
time;  strain,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  1  pint  sugar,  boil,  skim, 
bottle,  and  cork  while  hot. 

COCOANUT  BEVERAGE — Break  2  cocoanuts,  saving  the  milk 
carefully;  grate  the  cocoanuts,  add  them  to  the  milk  and  also  4  pints 
water;  put  in  a  sauce^pan,  and  boil  5  minutes,  stirring  with  a 
wooden  spoon  continually  to  prevent  burning  (it  will  ruin  it  to 
burn);  then  strain,  add  f  lb.  powdered  sugar,  and  mix  well.  Ice  it 
and  serve. 

CREAM  SODA. — Boil  together,  for  3  or  4  minutes,  1|  quarts 
water,  4^  cuios  sugar,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  2  oz.  tartaric  acid; 
when  cold,  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of 
flour  blended  in  |-  cup  cold  water;  flavor  to  taste,  bottle,  and  keep 
cool.  To  use,  put  2  tablespoons  in  |  tumbler  of  water,  add  a  salt- 
spoon  of  soda,  and  drink  when  it  effervesces. 

CURRANT  SHRUB.— Mash  the  currants,  strain,  and  to  each 
pint  of  juice  add  1  pint  sugar,  boil  10  minutes,  and  bottle  when  cold. 
If  used  at  once  it  need  not  be  boiled. 

CURRANT  WATER.— To  2  cups  red  currant  juice  add  |  cup 
raspberry  juice,  2  cups  white  sugar,  and  2  xoints  water. 

GRAPE  JUICE  AND  ALMONDS.— Take  6  oz.  sweet  almonds; 
blanch  and  pound  in  a  mortar,  working  in  2  cups  grape  juice  and  1^ 
cups  white  sugar;  then  add  1^  quarts  water,  and  when  all  are  dis- 
solved, filter  it.     Ice  when  used. 

GRAPE  WATER. — Squeeze  4  lbs.  grapes  through  a  coarse  cloth, 
and  add  ^  cup  of  white  sugar  and  1  pint  water  to  the  juice.  Serve 
with  crushed  ice  in  the  glass. 

JELLY  BEVERAGES.— Almost  any  jelly  dissolved  in  ice  water 
and  sweetened  to  taste  makes  a  j^leasant  drink.  Most  summer 
drinks  are  improved  by  adding  a  little  orange  juice. 

KOUMISS. — Take  6  cups  sweet  milk  and  3  tablespoons  of  sugar; 
add  2  tablespoons  of  yeast  and  set  in  a  warm  place  for  a  few  hours 
until  it  ferments  and  the  bubbles  rise  all  over  the  top;  then  stir  well 


566  BEVERAGES 

for  3  minutes,  bottle  and  fasten  the  corks.  Keep  cold  (on  ice  is  the 
best)  and  use  at  once  on  being  opened,  as  it  soon  spoils  on  exposure 
to  the  air.  It  can  be  used  in  2  days,  but  it  is  better  after  1  week.  It 
will  keep  for  months  if  kept  cold. 

GINGER  BEVERAGE.— To  4  cups  water  add  1  scant  cup  vine- 
gar, 3  largo  tablespoons  sugar,  and  2  teaspoons  sifted  ginger.  Use 
lemon  instead  of  vinegar  if  preferred.  (2)  Another  recipe  is  4  cups 
milk,  4  cups  water,  and  1  tablespoon  of  ginger.  Or  (3)  take  ^  cup 
of  vinegar,  1  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  ginger;  stir  thoroughly  together, 
put  it  in  a  quart  pitcher  and  fill  it  with  water. 

GiNGEK  is  the  root  of  a  plant  deriving  its  name  from  the 
mountain  Ginger,  in  Hindoostan,  of  which  it  is  a  native.  It 
now  comes  chiefly  from  the  East  and  West  Indies.  It  is  dug  up 
in  January  or  February,  scraped,  washed,  and  carefully  dried. 
It  contains  starch,  gum,  an  acid  resin  which  gives  its  hot  taste, 
and  a  volatile  oil  which  gives  its  odor.  The  best  comes  from 
Jamaica.  There  are  2  kinds — white  and  black;  white  is  con- 
sidered superior.  It  is  aromatic,  stimulant,  and  in  hot  weather 
is  valuable  as  a  medicine.  It  is  less  heating  to  the  system  than 
might  be  expected  from  its  taste. 

GOOSEBERRY  SHRUB.— Take  green   gooseber- 
ries, pour  on  boiling  water  to  cover,  let  stand  till  cool  gingeb. 
with   a  cloth  spread  over  the  jar;  strain  off  the  juice,  heat  it,  and 
pour   on   again;    then  strain,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  1  pint 
sugar;  boil,  skim  and  bottle. 

LEMONADE — Squeeze  the  juice  from  lemons,  add  a  little  of  the 
thin  yellow  rind,  with  water,  and  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  to  taste. 

Adding  ripe  strawberries,  mashed,  is  a  great  improvement  to 
lemonade.  So  also  is  adding  either  grated  or  sliced  pineapple. 
Remember  in  using  either  lemon  or  orange  jjeel  that  the  thin  yellow 
rind  (called  zest)  is  all  that  is  used;  the  white  part  of  the  rind  is 
bitter  and  injurious.  Boiling  water  is  sometimes  poured  over  the 
thin  yellow  rind  and  allowed  to  stand  a  while;  then  the  lemon  juice, 
water  and  sugar  are  added. 

Coffee  Lemonade. — Make  coffee  as  for  breakfast;  when  cold,  strain 
and  use  it  instead  of  water  in  making  lemonade.  It  is  healthful  and 
refreshing  in  hot  weather. 

Effervescing  Lemonade. — Into  2  cups  granulated  sugar  work  30  drops 
of  oil  of  lemon  and  sift;  then  sift  in  2^  oz.  tartaric  acid,  and  2^  oz. 
carbonate  of  soda;  keep  dry  in  air-tight  bottles.  To  use,  stir  2  table- 
spoons into  a  glass  of  ice  water. 

Invalid's  Lemonade. — Into  a  glass  of  water  put  a  few  drojjs  lemon 
extract,  and  2  tablespoons  of  lemon  sugar.  It  can  be  made  when 
lemons  are  not  attainable.  .^ 


BEVERAGES  567 

Milk  Lemonade. — In  4  cups  boiling  water  dissolve  3  cups  white 
sugar;  add  3  cups  milk  and  1  cup  lemon  juice. 

Portable  Lemonade — Mix  thoroughly  6  oz.  powdered  sugar,  1  oz. 
powdered  tartaric  acid,  and  1  drachm  essence  of  lemon;  dry  thor- 
oughly, divide  into  24  parts  and  wrap  each  one  in  paper;  each  pow- 
der will  make  a  nice  glass  of  lemonade,  and  can  be  used  at  any  time. 

Lemon  belongs  to  the  citrus  family,  and  is  a  native  to 
the  north  of  India.  It  was  unknown  to  the  ancient  Greeks 
and  Romans,  and  was  introduced  into  Europe  during  the 
crusades.  It  is  now  widely  naturalized.  Its  acidity  is  due 
to  the  presence  of  citric  and  malic  aciO  in  the  juice.  It  also 
contains  3  or  ifo  of  gum  and  sugar,  and  some  albumenous 
matter,  and  a  little  potash  and  phosphoric  acid.  Lemons 
with  thick  rough  skins  are  almost  certain  to  be  dry  and 
spongy,  so  choose  those  with  thin,  smooth  skins.  Persons 
of  bilious  and  sanguine  temperaments  may  freely  drink  the 
lemonade  made  from  its  juice,  but  those  with  irritable 
stomachs  should  avoid  it  on  account  of  its  acid  and  there- 
fore irritating  qualities. 

VINEGAR    WATER— A   little    vinegar    put  ^™^^- 

into  cold  water,  and  then  sweetened  to  taste,  makes  a  pleasant  bever- 
age in  hot  weather.  It  is  more  refreshing  and  healthier  than  to 
drink  large  quantities  of  clear  water.  (It  is  the  presence  of  the 
citric  acid  in  lemons  which,  makes  lemonade  so  refreshing  and 
healthful,  and  the  acetic  acid  in  vinegar  serves  much  the  same 
purpose). 

MEAD. — Take  6  cups  sugar,  2  cups  molasses,  \  lb.  tartaric  acid; 
pour  on  3  pints  boiling  water,  stir  till  dissolved,  let  cool,  and  add  1 
spoonful  essence  of  sassafras,  or  flavor  with  fruit  juices;  then  bottle 
for  use.  To  serve,  put  2  tablespoons  into  a  tumbler  f  full  of  ice 
water,  add  \  teaspoon  of  soda,  stir  it,  and  drink  while  foaming. 

OATMEAL  DRINK.— (1)  Dissolve  I  cup  of  oatmeal  in  a  jug  of 
water;  let  settle,  and  drink  cold.  (2)  Take  ^  lb.  sugar,  ^  a  lemon, 
sliced  small,  and  ^  lb.  fine  oatmeal;  mix  them  with  a  little  warm 
water  first,  and  then  pour  on  4  quarts  boiling  water;  stir  well 
together,  let  settle,  and  use  cold.  Any  other  flavoring  can  be  used 
instead  of  the  lemon  if  desired.  (3)  Mix  together  gradually,  in  4 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  ^  lb.  sugar,  \  lb.  fine  oatmeal,  and  4  oz.  cocoa. 
Use  when  cold. 

About  Summer  Drinks. — In  hot  weather  there  is  nothing  which  quenches  the 
thirst  better,  or  which  is  more  healthful  and  refreshing  than  oatmeal  drinks.  If 
laboring  men,  harvest  hands,  etc.,  would  use  them  more  it  would  be  a  great  advan- 
tage to  them.  For  heavv  work  they  are  far  better  than  either  beor,  cider  or 
spirits.  Boil  the  oatmeal  if  possible;  if  not  mix  it  with  cold  water.  When  heavy 
work  is  to  be  done  without  time  to  stop  and  eat,  make  it  stronger.  It  can  be  used 
cold  in  summer  and  hot  in  winter.  Cold  cofTee  is  thirst=quenchmg;  so  is  cold  tea, 
but  neither  equals  oatmeal.     Cocoa  is  refreshing  and  nourishing. 


568  BEVERAGES 

ORANGEADE. — (1)  In  1  cup  boiling  water  infuse  the  thin  yel- 
low rind  of  2  oranges;  then  add  |  cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  6 
oranges;  ice  before  serving.  (2)  Take  1  lemon  and  4  oranges,  slice 
crossways,  put  into  an  earthen  jug,  add  4  cups  boiling  water,  and  let 
stand  1  hour,  covered;  then  pour  ofP,  and  ice  before  serving. 

ORG  BATE. — Blanch  and  pound  in  a  mortar  |  lb.  sweet  and  |  oz. 
bitter  almonds,  working  in  gradually  2  tablesj^oons  of  orange  flower 
water;  then  work  in  ^  pint  rose  water  and  1|  cups  pure  water;  strain, 
and  add  3  cups  simple  syrup.  Put  it  in  a  sauce-pan,  boil  up  1  min- 
ute, remove  at  once,  and  bottle.  To  use,  add  1  tablespoon  to  a  tum- 
bler of  ice  water,  soda,  or  seltzer  water. 

PINEAPPLE  BEVERAGE.— Take  1  pineapple,  peel,  slice,  and 
pound  to  a  pulj).  Take  2  cups  water,  add  f  lb.  sugar,  boil,  skim,  and 
l^our  it  hot  on  the  pineapple  pulp;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  let 
stand  2  hours  covered;  then  filter  through  cloth,  and  add  2  pints  cold 
water.     Ice  when  served. 

PERSIAN  BEVERAGE — Take  1  cup  rose-water,  4  tablespoons 
of  orange  flower  water,  2  cup)s  strawberry  juice,  and  2  cups  simple 
syrujD;  mix  well  together.     Ice  it  when  served. 

RASPBERRY  ACID — In  4  pints  water  dissolve  3  oz.  tartaric 
acid;  X30ur  it  over  4  quarts  raspberries  and  let  stand  24  hours;  strain 
without  iDressing,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  1^  lbs.  of  sugar;  stir 
till  it  dissolves,  let  stand  48  hours;  bottle  and  seal.  To  use,  put  a 
little  into  water. 

RASPBERRY  WATER — Take  2  cups  raspberry  juice,  1  cup  red 
currant  juice,  2  cups  sugar,  2  ijints  water;  mix  well. 

RED  RASPBERRY  SHRUB.— Pickle  the  raspberries  in  white 
wine  vinegar  for  1  week;  strain  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  to  each  pint 
of  juice  allow  1  pint  sugar;  boil  gently  |  hour,  and  bottle.  Use  2  or 
3  tablespoons  of  the  shrub  to  a  glass  of  water. 

Raspberry  Shrub  No.  2. — On  3  quarts  fresh  berries  pour  4  cups 
cider  vinegar;  let  stand  1  day,  strain,  and  pour  the  juice  on  3  quarts 
fresh  berries;  let  stand  24  hours,  strain,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add 
1  pint  sugar;  boil  gently  10  minutes,    skim, 

and  bottle  when  cold.     Use   2   or   3  table-     6  y^ 

spoons  to  a  glass  of  water. 

Strawberry  Shrub  is  made  the  same  way. 

TAMARIND     WATER.— Take     2     oz.      {\i^ 
tamarinds,  1^  cups    raisins,    1    cup    sugar       '-^ 
(scant);  boil   them  in  1  gallon  of  water  till  tamabind. 

it  is  reduced  to  3  quarts;  strain  and  cool. 


\ 


BEVERAGES  569 

STRAWBERRY  ACID — In  2  pints  water  dissolve  2  oz.  citric 
acid;  pour  it  on  4  quarts  rixDe  strawberries,  let  stand  24  hours;  strain 
without  pressing,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  1^  lbs.  sugar;  boil 
10  minutes,  let  stand  3  days,  and  bottle.  To  use,  put  a  little  into 
water. 

STRAWBERRY  WATER.— Take  1  lb.  ripe  strawberries  and  1 
cup  sugar;  mash  them  together  and  add  1  cup  cold  water.  Strain 
and  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon. 

TISANE — Take  2  oz.  dates,  figs  or  prunes,  cut  them  up,  add  5 
cups  water  and  boil  1  hour;  strain  through  cloth  and  serve  ice  cold. 
Dilute  with  cold  water  if  desired. 

TOMATO  BEVERAGE.— Steam  the  tomatoes,  mash  them,  and 
strain  through  cheese  cloth;  add  -|  lb.  sugar  to  each  quart  of  juice 
and  let  stand  8  or  10  days;  then  drain  the  liquor  from  the  settlings, 
bottle,  and  cork  tight.  It  improves  with  age.  To  use,  add  1  or  2 
tablespoons  to  the  pint  of  water,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  A  little  lemon 
juice  will  improve  it. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI. — Take  1  tablespoon  mashed  strawberries,  1 
peach,  cut  fine,  1  tablespoon  pineapple,  cut  fine,  the  juice  of  ^  a 
lemon,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar;  mix  well,  strain  through  a  jelly  bag, 
mix  with  pounded  ice  and  jpour  on  water. 

CIDER — To  improve  cider,  strain  it  through  flannel  while  new 
and  sweet,  and  put  into  each  barrel  ^  lb.  white  sugar,  and  suspend 
a  bag  of  raisins  in  it.  If  acidity  appears  in  cider,  add  a  little  bak- 
ing soda,  which  neutralizes  the  acid,  but  add  it  on  the  first  appear- 
ance of  acidity.  If  cider  turns  black  it  is  caused  by  the  presence  of 
oxide  of  iron  which  turns  dark  on  exposure  to  the  air;  adding  a  little 
tartaric  acid  will  usually  correct  it. 

GINGER  POP. — Infuse  8  oz.  bruised  root  ginger  in  5  gallons 
boiling  water;  add  4  lbs.  sugar,  and  2  oz.  cream  of  tartar,  and  1  oz. 
tartaric  acid;  when  lukewarm,  strain,  add  1  quart  yeast,  and  1  bot- 
tle lemon  essence  to  flavor;  let  stand  over  night  and  bottle. 

LEMON  BEER Into  2  gallons  of  boiling  water  put  2  lbs.  sugar, 

the  thin  yellow  peel  of  2  lemons,  and  1  oz.  bruised  ginger;  when 
lukewarm  add  -|  pint  yeast;  let  stand  over  night,  or  a  little  longer,  to 
ferment,  and  bottle. 

MILK  BEER. — Into  4  cups  water  put  ^  cup  of  buttermilk  and 
3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  10  hours; 
then  pour  from  1  vessel  to  another  until  smooth;  bottle  and  let  stand 
a  day.     Serve  ice  cold. 


570  SYRUPS 

SPRUCE  BEER. — Into  4  gallons  of  water  put  3  lbs.  sugar,  ^  oz. 
essence  of  spruce,  a  little  zest  of  lemon,  1  oz.  ginger,  and  ^  pint  of 
yeast;  let  stand  24  hours,  and  bottle. 


SYRUPS. 

Fruit  syrups  are  made  by  adding  enough  sugar  to  fruit  juices 
to  preserve  them.  Fine  flavored  fruit  should  be  used,  because  syrup 
of  fine  flavor  cannot  be  made  from  fruit  lacking  flavor.  Decayed  fruit 
also  will  affect  the  flavor  of  the  syrup,  and  should  not  be  used.  If 
fruit  juice  is  allowed  to  stand  2  or  3  days  until  fermentation  begins, 
it  will  change  the  pectose  it  contains  so  that  it  will  not  jelly,  and 
jellying  is  not  desired  with  fruit  syrups.  They  should  be  made  in 
granite,  porcelain  or  aluminum  kettles,  as  the  acids  the  fruit  juices 
contain  will  act  on  other  metals  and  change  and  injure  the  color  of 
the  syrups,  while  in  metals  like  brass,  tin,  and  copper  they  will  also 
develop  poisonous  compounds.  If  boiled  hard,  or  heated  too  hot,  it 
will  injure  the  flavor  and  color  of  the  syrups.  A  double  boiler  is  the 
best  to  use  to  prevent  this.     Stir  syrups  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

Fruit  syrups  can  be  used  when  fruits  are  out  of  season,  and  they 
not  only  make  delicious  drinks,  but  they  can  also  be  used  for  pud- 
dings, water  ices  and  ice  creams.  They  are  best  kept  in  a  dark,  dry 
and  cool  X3lace. 

SIMPLE  SYRUP.— Take  2  quarts  water  and 
7  lbs.  white  sugar;  heat  gently  until  dissolved, 
and  strain 

BARBERRY  SYRUP.— Take  good  ripe  bar- 
berries, strip  them,  and  put  them  in  a  porcelain 
kettle  with  water  enough  to  cover  them;  let  them 
simmer  gently,  but  do  not  boil  or  burn  them,  and 
when  done  squeeze  out  and  strain  the  juice; 
allow  1  quart  sugar  to  1  pint  of  juice  and  set  the 
pitcher  holding  them  into  a  pan  of  boiling 
water  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  then  bottle  it, 

BLACKBERRY  SYRUP.-Take  ^  gallon  black- 
berry juice,  add  4  cups  white  sugar  (heaping),  -|  oz.  each  of  allspice, 
cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  and  {  oz,  cloves;  pulverize  the  spice,  boil  all 
for  ^  hour,  strain,  and  when  cold,  bottle  and  cork  closely. 

CHERRY  SYRUP.—Bruise  6  lbs.  cherries  with  the  stones  in 
(breaking   them);    add   3   cups   hot   water   and  boil  ^  hour,  strain 


SYRUPS  571 

through  a  jelly  bag,  add  3  lbs.  sugar,  and  boil  until  it  will  sink  to 
the  bottom  of  a  cup  of  water  when  dropped  from  a  spoon ;  then  turn 
into  jelly  cups  and  cover  with  paper  dipped  in  the  white  of  egg. 
To  use  for  a  drink,  put  a  spoonful  in  a  glass  of  water,  let  stand  10 
minutes,  stir  it,  and  fill  with  pounded  ice  if  you  have  it. 

CURRANT   SYRUP — Mash  the  currants,  cover  them  over,  and 

let  them  stand  3  or  4  days  to  ferment;   then  strain  through  a  jelly 
bag,  and  allow  2  lbs.  sugar  to  each  pint  of 
juice;  dissolve  the  sugar  slowly  (in  a  fa-  ^C%:^v-     .<fk 

rina^boiler  is  best,  as  there  is  no  danger  '  j 

of   its   burning),   and  then  let  it  become  , ^ 

cold,  put  it  in  small  bottles,  filling  them  '  -^J^J.^-^  _ 

full,  seal  tightly  and  put  away,  ^X     ij^     ,  T^;  -., 

Raspberry  Syrup  can  be  made  the  same  ^L  vB^^    ^^^ 

way.  w^C;r-^ 

The     Raspbebey     in     some     form    is    found  .c^^fefet. 

throughout    Europe    and   America.      There    are    2  ^^^^^ 

kinds — the  red  and  white,  the  former  being  most  ^^flSr^fflf 

common.      The  juice  is  very  wholesome  and  valu-  iiASPBEBKY. 
able   to  people  of  a  nervous  or    bilious  tempera- 
ment. 

LEMON  SYRUP — In  a  porcelain  pan  dissolve  2  lbs.  white 
sugar  and  2  cups  cold  water,  and  let  it  boil  2  minutes;  then  add  the 
juice  of  4  lemons,  and  \  oz.  tartaric  acid;  after  it  has  cooled  a  little 
add  \  teaspoon  lemon  essence.     When  quite  cold,  bottle  it. 

Lemon  Syrup  No.  2.— Rub  the  yellow  rind  of  6  lemons  with  1  lb. 
lump  sugar;  moisten  the  sugar  with  as  much  water  as  it  will  absorb, 
and  boil  it  to  a  clear  syrup;  to  this  (without  letting  it  boil  any  more) 
add  the  juice  of  1  doz.  lemons,  stirring  it  beside  the  fire;  bottle  at 
once,  and  cork  when  cold. 

Lemon  Syrup  No.  3. — Mix  4  cups  water  and  2  lbs.  sugar,  and  boil 
till  clear;  when  cool,  add  1  teaspoon  essence  of  lemon  and  1  oz.  cit- 
ric acid,  and  bottle  when  cold. 

ORANGE  SYRUP. — Select  fine,  ripe  oranges,  extract  the  juice, 
and  to  each  pint  add  1  pint  sugar;  boil  gently  10  minutes,  skim, 
and  bottle  when  cold.  An  excellent  flavor  for  sauces,  as  well  as  a 
delightful  drink. 

ROSE  SYRUP.— Take  \  lb.  rose  leaves,  pour  on  1  pint  of  hoil- 
ing  water  and  let  stand  till  next  day;  strain  through  muslin  add  2 
lbs.  sugar,  and  heat  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  let 
it  cool,  and  bottle  when  cold. 


572 


SYRUPS 


SARSAPAEILLA. 


For  Violet  Syrup  use  violets  in  like  manner,  but  do  not  allow  the 
calyx  or  stalks  to  be  mixed  with  the  leaves. 

SARSAPARILLA  SYRUP — Into  5 
quarts  of  water  put  ^  lb.  Spanish  sarsapa- 
rilla,  and  boil  until  it  is  reduced  to  2 
quarts;  add  2^  oz.  tartaric  acid  and  4  lbs. 
sugar;  mix,  boil  3  minutes  and  bottle.  To 
use,  put  2  tablespoons  in  a  glass  of  water, 
add  a  little  soda,  and  drink  when  it  effer- 
vesces. 

Sabsapaeilla  is  a  native  of  Central  America. 
Tliere  are  several  varieties.  The  roots  appear  in 
bundles  12  to  18  inches  long,  and  4  or  5  in  breadth. 
Tire  taste  when  chewed  is  bitter  and  even  acid.  It 
has    been    used   as    a    remedy    in    a   great   variety 

of  diseases  and  in  certain  broken  down  conditions  of  health  it  appears  to  do  much 
good. 

STRAWBERRY  SYRUP.— Wash  the  strawberries,  and  strain 
through  a  jelly  bag;  prepare  a  syruj)  and  bring  it  to  the  "  soft  ball 
degree  "  as  directed  in  "  Candy  Making,"  and  to  each  pint  of  the 
syrup  add  1  pint  of  the  strawberry  juice;  bring  it  to  a  boil,  skim,  and 
remove  from  the  fire.     Bottle  and  seal  when  cold. 

Pineapple  Syrup  can  be  jDrepared  by  gradually  adding  strained 
pineapple  juice  to  the  syrup,  instead  of  the  strawberry  juice,  and 
finishing  the  same  way. 

TOMATO  SYRUP — Take  good  ripe  tomatoes,  squeeze  out  the 
juice,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  ^  lb.  sugar;  bottle  and  set  away. 
No  alcohol  is  needed  to  preserve  it.  It  will  keep  for  years,  makes 
a  delightful  beverage  for  the  sick,  and  will  resemble  pure  wine  in 
flavor. 

VANILLA  SYRUP — Take  2  quarts  of  simple  syrup,  into  some 
of  it  rub  ^  oz.  citric  acid,  add  ^  oz.  fluid  extract  of  vanilla,  and  mix 
all;  then  bottle. 

WINTERQREEN  SYRUP.— To  2|  quarts  of  simple  syrup 
add  25  drops  oil  of  wintergreen,  and  burnt  sugar  enough  to  color  it. 

ARTIFICIAL  HONEY.— (1)  Take  10  lbs.  good  brown  sugar, 
add  4  lbs.  water  and  gradually  bring  it  to  a  boil,  skimming  it  well. 
When  it  has  become  cooled,  add  2  lbs.  bee's  honey  and  8  drops 
of  peppermint.  A  better  article  can  be  made  with  white  sugar  in- 
stead of  brown,  with  1  lb.  less  of  water  and  1  lb.  more  of  sugar. 


INVALID    COOKERY. 

HILE  in  robust  health  the  appetite  is  ^undoubtedly  an  ad. 
,^5/^  mirable  guide  in  the  choice  of  foods,  but  when  debility 
and  disease  are  present,  intelligent  knowledge  of  the 
properties  of  different  foods  is  necessary,  and  experience 
should  guide  in  administering  them.  Ignorance  in  a  sickroom  is 
most  deplorable,  even  when  accompanied  by  the  utmost  family 
afPection.  In  many  disorders  a  knowledge  of  dietetics  is  as  impor- 
tant as  a  knowledge  of  materia  medica,  for  the  action  of  a  medicine 
may  be  counteracted  by  unsuitable  diet.  When  a  patient  is  very 
sick  the  diet  is  prescribed  by  the  doctor,  and  his  directions  in  regard 
to  the  foods  to  be  given  should  be  carried  out  quite  as  implicitly  as 
they  are  in  giving  the  medicine,  for  they  are  usually  quite  as  im- 
portant. Many  persons  have  a  superstitious  faith  in  the  cravings  of 
the  sick  and  will  disobey  the  doctor  to  gratify  the  patient,  but  this  is 
very  unwise,  as  in  disease  the  appetite  is  not  a  safe  guide,  and  many 
a  patient  has  been  seriously  injured  or  even  killed  by  such  folly.  In 
some  cases,  (notably  after  fever)  the  patient  develops  a  surprising 
appetite  which,  in  the  ^tate  of  his  digestive  organs,  it  would  be  dan- 
gerous to  gratify.  Other  patients  will  actually  sink  from  exhaustion 
while  refusing  all  food.  Still,  if  a  desire  for  any  particular  article  is 
expressed  it  would  be  well  to  call  the  doctor's  attention  to  it,  as  it 
may  be  a  valuable  indication  of  the  needs  of  the  system. 

In  general  it  may  be  said  that  in  feeding  the  sick  2  objects  are 
kept  in  view :  ( 1 )  to  choose  the  food  which  will  give  least  work  to 
the  part  of  the  digestive  canal  which  is  most  deranged;  (2)  to  com- 
pensate for  the  waste  or  drain  upon  the  system.  The  doctor  should 
thoroughly  understand  the  process  of  digestion,  the  needs  of  the  sys- 
tem and  the  composition  of  foods,  and  be  able  to  make  the  selection 
of  foods  more  skilfully  than  an  untrained  person.  It  is  sometimes 
thought  that  when  a  person  is  ill  he  should  be  coaxed  or  coerced  into 
taking  as  much  food  as  possible,  but  it  should  be  remembered  that  it 
is  only  the  food  which  is  assimilated  by  the  system  which  is  of  any 
real  benefit  to  the  patient,  and  to  overload  the  feeble  digestive  or- 
gans, will  impose  a  burden  that  will  be  a  positive  detriment;  there- 
fore in  case  of  serious  illness,  get  directions  from  the  doctor  regard- 
ing the  quantity  as  well  as  kind  of  food  to  be  given.  The  prepara- 
tion and  cooking  of  food  should  be  thoroughly  understood  by  a  good 

573 


574  INVALID  COOKERY 

nurse,  so  that  should  any  dish  be  sent  from  the  kitchen  imperfectly 
prepared,  directions  can  be  given  how  this  can  be  remedied. 

The  conditions  of  different  patients  vary  so  greatly  (one  may  be 
suffering  from  an  acute  disease  like  a  fever,  while  another  has  some 
lingering  chronic  disease;  one  may  be  suffering  from  over^work  and 
nervous  prostration,  while  another  suffers  from  a  lack  of  exercise, 
and  so  on)  that  it  is  evident  that  no  exact  rules  can  be  given  which 
will  apply  to  all  cases,  but  the  following  hints  in  regard  to  sickroom 
feeding  may  be  suggestive  to  our  readers. 

(1)  Give  little  food  and  often.  What  is  eaten  with  a  relish 
does  more  good  than  twice  as  much  swallowed  with  disgust,  so  do 
not  urge  a  patient  to  swallow  large  quantities  at  once;  but  remember 
also  that  very  sick  people  often  refuse  to  swallow  anything,  though 
they  may  be  actually  sinking  for  want  of  food. 

(2)  Let  the  food  come  at  stated  times  and  punctually.  A  con- 
valescent looks  forward  to  meals  as  the  great  events  of  the  day,  and 
frets  and  worries  if  they  do  not  come  on  time,  and  a  very  weak 
patient  may  faint  and  flag  if  instead  of  an  hour  it  is  20  or  30  minutes 
longer  than  that,  between  the  times  of  feeding.  If  obliged  to  wait 
long,  a  i3atient  may  lose  the  desire  to  eat,  and  turn  against  the  food 
when  brought. 

(3)  As  a  rule,  patients  should  not  be  awakened  to  be  fed, 
though  it  may  sometimes  be  necessary  to  do  so.  Amateur  nurses 
often  forget  to  feed  patients  in  the  small  hours  of  the  morning,  al- 
though at  that  time  the  patient's  strength  is  at  the  lowest  ebb. 

(4)  When  there  is  no  appetite,  give  such  food  as  affords  the 
most  nourishment  for  the  least  work  to  the  system.  When  very 
weak,  the  exertion  of  eating  is  quite  a  tax,  so  put  the  greatest 
amount  of  nourishment  in  the  least  space. 

(5)  Endeavor  to  give  the  food  most  appreciated  by  the  patient, 
provided  it  is  not  injurious.  Do  not  let  a  convalescent  know  before 
hand  what  the  bill  of  fare  will  be,  as  surprises  are  often  very  pleasing 
to  him. 

(6)  For  a  convalescent  the  food  should  be  as  varied  as  possi- 
ble, for  invalids  easily  tire  of  the  same  thing.  If  the  food  may  not 
be  varied  the  mode  of  serving  it  may,  and  a  stray  flower  or  a  new 
plate  is  better  than  no  variety  at  all. 

(7)  For  invalids,  never  make  a  large  quantity  of  one  thing,  as 
they  seldom  require  much  at  a  time.  Only  as  much  as  the  patient  is 
likely  to  eat  should  be  taken  into  the  sickroom,  and  at  once  remove 
what  remains.  Never  leave  food  at  the  bed  side  or  about  a  sickroom; 
if  the  patient  cannot  eat  it,  take  it  away  and  bring  it  again  in  1  or  2 


INVALID  COOKERY  575 

hours.  As  a  rule  nothing  made  for  an  invalid  is  fit  to  be  used  a  day 
after  it  has  been  prepared,  and  neither  food  nor  drink,  except  in 
cases  of  absolute  necessity,  should  be  kej^t  in  the  invalid's  room,  as 
the  air  and  temperature  are  apt  to  hasten  decomposition. 

(8)  In  case  of  infectious  fevers  all  remains  of  food  should  at 
once  be  burned,  and  on  no  account  be  eaten  by  another  person.  The 
nurse  should  not  eat  in  the  sickroom. 

(9)  Have  every  thing  tempting  in  appearance  and  daintily 
served.  See  that  the  linen  is  spotless,  and  the  prettiest  china  used 
to  hold  the  sick  one's  food.  Never  give  an  invalid  soiled  or  crumpled 
napkins. 

(10)  Do  not  put  a  very  little  broth  in  a  very  large  basin.  If  a 
limited  amount  of  drink  is  to  be  given  it  is  better  to  put  the  right 
amount  in  a  small  glass  than  to  hand  a  large  glass  full,  and  tell  him 
how  many  swallows  to  take.  Gruel  served  in  a  tumbler  is  more  ap- 
petizing than  when  served  in  a  basin  or  cup  and  saucer.  It  is  better 
not  to  have  a  cup  more  than  f  full,  and  then  it  will  be  less  likely  to 
spill  over.  Never  have  anything  spilled  into  the  saucer  on  handing 
an  invalid  a  cup  and  saucer.  Little  things  like  these  tell  on  the  sen- 
sitive nerves  of  an  invalid  more  than  many  people  think. 

(11)  Sponge  the  hands  and  face  of  an  invalid  carefully  before 
serving  any  meal. 

(12)  If  a  feeding  cup  is  used,  scald  it  carefully  and  keej)  it 
quite  clean;  warm  it  before  using  it  for  hot  food.  Keep  one  for  milk, 
and  lay  that  in  water;  have  a  separate  cup  for  beef  tea  and  broth. 

When  much  fever  is  present  very  little  gastric  juice  is  secreted, 
and  therefore  at  the  commencement  of  a  fever  there  is  little  craving 
for  anything  but  cold  water.  All  nourishment  given  in  high  fever 
should  be  in  fluid  form,  and  it  is  very  doubtful  if  starch  can  then  be 
converted  into  sugar. 

Lemonade  is  agreeable  as  the  acid  taste  pleases  the  patient's 
palate,  and  the  sugar  passes  into  the  system  without  digestion  or 
making  any  demands  on  the  powers  of  the  stomach,  and  various 
other  drinks  can  be  given.  As  the  fever  subsides  the  gastric  and 
intestinal  juices  are  sufficiently  secreted  to  digest  farinaceous  foods, 
and  the  medical  man  can  decide  in  each  case  what  articles  are  most 
suitable.  By  degrees  the  patient  is  able  to  satisfy  his  natural  ap- 
petite, convalescence  becomes  more  rapid,  and  bynindby  steaks  and 
other  food  can  be  eaten  again.     This  would  be  dietetic  regimen. 

The  following  quotation  from  Dr.  Pavy's  "  Treatise  on  Food  and 
Dietetics,"  will  be  of  interest  and  value.  Regarding  the  foods  which 
may  be  given  jjatients  as  convalescence  advances,  he  says:     "  In  feb- 


576  INVALID  COOKERY 

rile,  acute,  inflammatory,  and  other  conditions  where  an  absence  of 
digestive  power  prevails the  food  should  be  confined  to  such  ar- 
ticles as  beef  tea,  mutton,  veal  or  chicken  broth,  whey,  calf's  foot,  and 
other  kinds  of  jelly,  arrowroot,  and  such  like  farinaceous  articles, 
barley  water,  rice,  mucilage,  gum  water,  fruit  jelly,  and  the  juice  of 

fruits,  as  lemons,  oranges,  etc.,  made  into  drinks Where  a  little 

latitude  is  allowable,  the  employment  of  milk  and  eggs  in  a  fluid 
form  may  be  sanctioned.  Bread  jelly,  which  is  made  by  steeping 
bread  in  boiling  water  and  passing  it  through  a  sieve  while  still  hot, 
is  also  an  article  that  may  be  used  either  alone  or  boiled  with  milk. 
From  this,  as  circumstances  permit,  an  advance  may  be  made  to  sub- 
stances which  do  not  throw  much  work  on  the  stomach,  such  as  rice, 
sago,  tapioca,  bread  and  custard  puddings,  and  stale  bread  and  toast 

sopped.      Next   may   be  allowed  fish which  should  be  boiled  or 

broiled,  and  not  fried.  As  power  becomes  restored,  calves'  feet, 
chicken,  game  and  butcher's  meat — mutton  to  begin  with — may  be 
permitted  to  follow,"  and  so  on  till  ordinary  diet  is  reached.  The 
object  is  to  convey  fuel  foods  (carbohydrates)  to  the  system,  and 
only  enough  albumenoids  (flesh  formers)  for  repairing  the  tissues. 
Later,  an  abundance  of  albumenoids  will  be  needed  to  rebuild  the 
wasted  tissues. 

In  cases  of  fever,  pure  milk  as  the  main  article  of  diet  is  superior  to 
anything  else,  especially  in  fevers  which  cause  disturbance  of  the 
stomach  and  bowels.  Beef  tea,  which  is  commonly  used,  is  often 
irritating;  but  milk  is  soothing,  cooling,  and  at  the  same  time 
nourishing.  A  patient  who  can  take  milk  has  a  greater  chance  of 
recovery.  With  some  persons  it  does  not  agree,  either  in  sickness  or 
health.  Mixing  ^  to  ^  its  quantity  of  lime  water  with  it  will  help  it 
with  some.  Soda  water  and  milk,  or  seltzer  water  and  milk,  agree 
with  some.  Boiled  milk  is  more  digestible  with  some,  especially  hot 
boiled  milk.  Only  in  rare  cases  should  the  cream  be  removed. 
The  slightest  souring  is  sufiicient  to  make  milk  disagree  with  a 
patient.  In  the  early  stages  of  convalescence,  hot  milk,  given  often 
in  small  quantities,  with  a  little  toasted  bread,  or  thin  gruel  added, 
is  often  excellent. 

In  chronic  disorders  of  the  stomach  and  bowels  a  milk  diet  is  most  val- 
uable. It  allows  the  stomach  to  have  almost  absolute  rest,  which  is 
often  all  that  is  required.  As  it  is  already  prepared  for  absorption 
into  the  system  it,  in  fact,  requires  no  digestion.  When  milk  is  con- 
stipating, a  little  salt  sprinkled  in  each  glassful  will  obviate  the  diffi- 
culty. When  it  has  an  opposite  effect,  a  few  drojDS  of  brandy  in  each 
tumbler  of  milk  will  prevent  purgation.     If  diluted  with  ^  lime  water 


INVALID  COOKERY  577 

it  will  rarely  cause  biliousness  or  indigestion.  The  idea  that  milk 
should  not  be  eaten  with  pickles  is  a  mistake,  as  it  is  curdled  by  the 
gastric  juice  as  soon  as  swallowed,  but  it  is  better  to  be  sipped  in 
small  quantities  than  taken  in  large  amounts  at  one  time  if  acids 
accompany  it, 

Cream  can  often  be  taken  freely  when  nothing  else  will  remain 
on  the  stomach.  It  should  always  be  fresh,  and  may  be  diluted  with 
water  or  given  pure.  In  many  chronic  diseases  it  is  irreiDlaceable  by 
any  other  article  whatever.  With  many  people  it  is  easier  of  diges- 
tion than  milk,  and  it  seldom  disagrees. 

Buttermilk  is  often  very  useful.  It  is  almost  always  allowable  in 
sickness,  especially  in  fevers  with  gastric  symtoms. 

Whey  is  often  found  useful  when  every  preparation  of  fresh  milk 
disagrees.  It  is  not  very  nourishing,  but  is  digestible,  and  is  a 
refreshing  drink  in  inflammatory  disorders.  It  is  rich  in  organic 
salts. 

The  fats  for  the  system  are  best  obtained  by  using  cream,  or  butter 
which  is  next  best,  rather  than  fatty  meats.  Do  not  have  the  butter 
made  into  a  sauce,  nor  melted  and  soaked  into  food.  When  exposed 
to  heat  (as  for  buttered  toast)  it  is  very  likely  to  disagree  with  dys- 
peptics and  other  invalids.  All  decomposing  fats,  as  a  rule,  disagree 
with  the  stomach.  The  value  of  cod  liver  oil  in  many  diseases  con- 
sists in  the  fact  that  it  is  the  most  easily  digested  of  fats,  not  even 
excepting  cream. 

Eggs  are  nutritious  and  easily  digested  when  raw  or  lightly  cook- 
ed; they  are  more  digestible  if  beaten  to  a  froth.  Do  not  submit 
them  to  a  high  temperature  in  cooking,  for,  as  we  explain  elsewhere, 
that  will  make  them  tough  and  indigestible.  The  white  is  least 
likely  to  disagree  with  a  bilious  patient.  Use  only  fresh  eggs  for 
invalids.  Eggs  boiled  20  minutes  are  more  digestible  than  when 
boiled  10;  boiled  10  minutes,  they  become  tough  and  horny,  but 
become  mealy  and  dry  when  cooked  20  minutes,  and  crumble  up 
readily  so  that  they  are  easily  acted  on  by  the  gastric  juices.  Eggs 
in  the  tough  and  horny  state  are  insoluble,  and  pieces  often  stay  in 
the  digestive  tract  till  they  decompose,  when  they  emit  ammonia  and 
sulphuretted  hydrogen  which  are  injurious  to  the  system. 

Beef  Tea  is  not  a  nourishing  food,  although  it  used  to  be  so  con- 
sidered, and  it  is  now  known  to  have  more  value  as  a  stimulant  than 
as  food,  properly  speaking,  and  yet  many  persons  place  their  main 
reliance  on  it,  and  think  the  more  a  patient  swallows  the  sooner  he 
will  recover.  It  should  be  combined  with  other  foods,  or  given  alter- 
nately when  possible,  and  when  containing  farinaceous  foods  it  is 

37 


578  INVALID  COOKERY 

useful.  If  well  made,  it  is  a  pleasant  and  refreshing  beverage.  A 
healthy  man  would  starve  on  beef  tea  alone,  and  so  would  an  invalid. 

Broth  made  from  chicken  is  more  nutritious  than  that  made  from 
either  beef  or  mutton,  and  the  sick  often  find  it  very  useful.  The 
meat  extracts,  (Liebig's  and  others)  are  made  by  boiling  lean  meat 
in  water,  and  then  taking  out  the  insoluble  parts  and  evaporating  it 
down.  As  some  of  the  most  nutritious  parts  of  the  meat  are  insol- 
uble in  water  the  extracts  contain  comparatively  little  nourishment. 
Their  principal  value  is  as  stimulants,  and  they  often  imf)rove  the 
appetite  so  that  more  nutritious  foods  are  craved  and  digested. 
Other  food,  therefore,  should  be  given  with  them.  A  German  took  2 
dogs  and  gave  one  meat  extract  and  the  other  water,  and  nothing 
else.  The  one  given  the  extract  lost  flesh  faster  and  died  before  the 
one  having  only  water. 

Jelly,  Gelatine  and  Isinglass  have  excited  much  discussion.  Alone 
they  are  of  little  value,  and  it  is  a  mistake  to  place  much  reliance  on 
them  for  nourishment.  (See  our  remarks  on  this  subject  under  the 
head  of  "  Gelatine  Preparations.") 

Toast  is  valuable  for  invalids  because  by  toasting  part  of  the 
starch  is.  turned  into  dextrin,  which  is  easily  digested.  Cut  the 
bread  thin,  hold  it  a  little  ways  from  the  fire  to  dry,  then  hold  it 
closer  till  it  browns.  Serve  it  dry,  or  buttered  lightly,  or  with  hot 
water  or  milk  poured  on  it. 

Flour,  Rice,  Barley  and  Oats  are  preferable  to  arrowroot,  sago,  tapi- 
oca, etc.,  for  nourishment,  if  suitably  prepared.  Browned  flour  we 
mention  elsewhere.  Rice  is  valuable  for  invalids,  as  it  taxes  the 
digestive  powers  very  little.  It  can  be  roasted  like  coffee;  then  cook 
it  in  the  usual  way,  and  serve  it  with  cream.  Barley  for  invalids 
should  be  thoroughly  cooked.  Use  oatmeal  cautiously  until  the 
digestive  powers  become  strong.  Cornmeal  because  of  its  fat  is  val- 
uable for  thin,  chilly  invalids,  but  cook  it  ihoroughhj.  Macaroni  is 
nutritious  and  easily  digested. 

Fine  Flour  Bread  is  indigestible  because  it  does  not  readily  sepa- 
rate into  particles  in  the  stomach,  so  as  to  be  readily  attacked  by  the 
digestive  fluids.  A  little  fine  Indian  meal  added  to  fine  flour  bread 
will  obviate  this  difficulty  and  cause  it  to  separate  quickly.  Corn- 
meal  is  also  loosening  in  its  effects  upon  the  digestive  organs,  there- 
fore in  a  relaxed  condition  of  the  bowels  cornmeal  should  be  avoided. 
Maliine,  taken  with  fine  flour  bread  or  biscuit,  will  assist  digestion. 
Thorough  mastication  must  be  insisted  on,  for  that  is  the  first  pro- 
cess of  the  thorough  digestion  of  all  starch  foods  in  which  fine  flour 
is  used. 


INVALID  COOKERY  579 

Tea,  Coffee  and  Cocoa.— Tea  is  often  misused 
for  invalids.  A  little  tea  or  coffee  restores  them 
quite  as  much  as  a  great  deal.  As  a  rule,  do  not 
give  either  after  five  o'clock  in  the  afternoon. 
Sleeplessness  in  the  early  night  is  generally  from 
excitement,  and  is  increased  by  tea  or  coffee;  in 
the  early  morning  it  comes  from  exhaustion,  and 
is  relieved  by  tea.  In  general,  the  dry  and  coated 
tongue  prefers  tea  to  coffee.  Coffee  is  a  better 
restorative  than  tea.  Cocoa  is  often  recommended  bbanch  of  cuoco- 
instead  of  tea  or  coffee,  but  it  has  a  very  different  i-at^  tkee. 

effect.  It  is  a  food  rather  than  a  beverage,  owing  to  its  fatty  charac- 
ter, and  for  invalids  it  has  no  restorative  or  stimulating  effect,  and  its 
fat  is  often  ojipressive  to  a  weak  stomach. 

Vegetables. — If  an  invalid  is  allowed  to  eat  vegetables,  be  careful 
to  choose  only  such  as  are  young  and  tender,  perfectly  fresh,  and 
sufficiently  cooked;  never  send  them  up  half  done.  All  of  the 
cabbage  tribe  are  unsuitable,  as  they  are  likely  to  produce  flatulence, 
and  all  the  pulses  are  difficult  of  digestion.  A  mealy  old  potato  is 
more  digestible  than  a  new  one.  The  best  way  to  use  it  is  to  boil, 
remove  the  inside,  mash  thoroughly,  and  use  a  little  salt  and  cream  to 
season  it. 

The  juice  of  fruits  can  be  used  early  in  convalescence  for  preparing 
drinks  for  an  invalid,  but  do  not  use  the  pulp.  When  fruits  can  be 
used  again  a  baked  apple  can  first  be  safely  eaten. 

The  appetite  may  be  unimpaired  or  even  greatly  increased  in 
many  chronic  diseases,  like  dyspepsia,  etc.,  and  in  these  cases  there 
will  be  danger  of  yielding  to  the  claims  of  appetite  and  overstepping 
the  bounds  of  prudence,  so  that  an  undue  amount  or  an  unsuitable 
food  may  be  eaten,  for  which  reason  it  is  of  great  importance  for 
such  persons  to  X3ay  attention  to  some  suitable  rules  for  the  diet. 

People  who  are  subject  to  gout  and  biliousness  should  remember  that 
"bile  poison"  and  "gout  poison"  are  of  albumenoid  descent,  and 
that  they  follow  a  diet  too  rich  in  albumenoids  like  the  avenging 
fates.  The  system  requires  for  the  growth  and  repair  of  its  tissues  a 
certain  amount  of  albumenoids,  but  when  an  excess  is  eaten  the  sur- 
plus is  imperfectly  oxydized  and  the  blood  becomes  laden  with 
waste,  and  the  result  is  biliousness  or  gout.  People  with  a  tendency 
to  these  diseases  should  eat  very  sparingly  of  albumenoid  foods  like 
meat,  eggs,  beans,  cheese,  etc. 

People  with  a  tendency  to  consumption  should  eat  nutritious  and  eas- 
ily digested  foods,  and  plenty  of  fats  in  their  most  easily  digested 


580  INVALID  COOKEKY 

form,  such  as  cream,  good  butter,  oil  and  salads,  oatmeal,  cornmeal, 
etc.,  rather  than  in  the  indigestible  form  they  assume  when  mixed 
with  starch. 

Diet. — Every  year  diet  plays  a  larger  part  in  the  skille<.l  treatment 
of  disease;  it  is  harmless  where  drugs  are  dangerous,  and  it  can  often 
cure  where  drugs  are  useless  or  worse.  There  are  many  diseases 
where  the  only  hope  of  cure  or  alleviation  lies  in  rigid  abstinence 
from  certain  kinds  of  food,  and  in  many  common  ailments  some 
slight  change  in  diet  is  by  far  the  best  remedy. 

A  deficiency  of  oil  or  fat  in  the  diet  develops  scrofulous  diseases,  and 
yet  we  often  hear,  when  fat  meats,  cream,  butter,  etc.,  are  suggested 
for  scrofulous  children  "O,  that  will  feed  the  disease,"  when  that  is 
likely  to  be  the  one  thing  that  would  most  assist  a  cure.  Fat  is  heat 
giving,  and  is  naturally  craved  by  most  delicate  children.  The  fol- 
lowing is  about  the  proportion  of  fat  in  the  different  grains:  Rice  1; 
Rye  1.75;  Wheat  2.10;  Oats  3.30;  Indian  Corn  5  (the  amount  of  oil 
varies  in  difPerent  varieties  of  corn,  the  northern  yellow  containing 
much  more  than  the  southern  white).  Oatmeal  porridge  and  milk 
have,  with  intelligent  people,  long  been  regarded  as  the  best  food  for 
the  nursery.  It  owes  its  chief  value  for  that  j)urpose  to  its  large 
amount  of  fat,  but  with  many  children  it  does  not  agree,  and  corn- 
meal  porridge  possessing  so  much  fat  can  often  be  used  in  its  place 
to  advantage.  Thoroughly  cook  it  always,  as  it  is  only  indigestible 
when  improperly  prepared.  The  dietary  for  children  from  2-|  to  7 
years  of  age,  which  has  been  settled  by  long  experiment  in  various 
children's  hospitals  is  as  follows:  At  least  12  ounces  of  bread  daily; 
1  oz.  butter;  ^  pint  of  milk;  2  oz.  meat;  6  oz.  vegetables;  6  oz.  gruel 
or  porridge.  Rapidly  growing  children  require  an  abundance  of 
meat  (or  albumenoids)  to  build  up  the  rapidly  growing  system. 

Lime. — In  parts  of  the  country  where  lime  does  not  exist  in  the 
soil,  so  that  the  water  is  deficient  in  lime,  use  -|  pint  of  lime  water 
with  the  mixing  for  bread  every  time  bread  is  made.  In  this  way 
children  will  get  the  lime  which  is  necessary  for  the  proper  solidi- 
fying of  the  bones,  and  the  preservation  of  the  teeth.  We  explain 
elsewhere  how  to  make  lime  water. 

When  a  patient  suffers  from  sickness  and  nausea  every  food  should  be 
given  iced,  or  as  cold  as  possible,  and  in  the  smallest  quantities,  and 
it  will  be  a  good  plan  to  slip  a  little  piece  of  ice  into  the  patient's 
mouth  immediately  after  giving  the  food. 

Ice  for  the  sickroom  can  be  nicely  kept  through  the  night  by  ty- 
ing a  piece  of  strainer  cloth  over  a  large  iDitcher,  with  a  piece  of 
twine  around  it,  leaving  a  sag  in  the  center  on  which  may  be  placed 


INVALID  COOKEKY  581 

1  or  2  pounds  of  ice — enough  to  serve  the  invalid  through  the  night. 
Fold  np  the  corners  of  the  cloth  over  the  ice,  and  cover  it  again  with 
a  square  of  canton  flannel,  folded  4  double.  When  a  bit  of  ice  is 
needed  have  at  hand  a  large  darning  needle  and  thimble;  press  stead- 
ily on  a  corner  of  the  ice  with  the  needle,  and  flake  off  pieces  as 
needed.  The  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pitcher  can  be  poured 
through  the  strainer  without  disturbing  the  ice  which  is  covered  with 
the  corners  of  the  strainer. 

Fat  may  be  removed  from  beef  tea  or  broth  by  letting  it  get  cold, 
when  it  can  all  be  taken  off;  or,  if  in  haste,  by  drawing  a  piece  of 
blotting  paper  edgeways  over  the  surface,  and  it  will  take  up  the 
fatty  particles.  In  some  cases  a  little  fat  will  be  beneficial;  in  others 
it  is  better  to  remove  it  all. 

MILK  SOUP.— Use  1  quart  of  new  milk,  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  1 
saltspoon  of  powdered  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  of  granulated  sugar; 
scald  all  together  for  an  hour  in  a  pitcher  set  in  a  kettle  of  water; 
then  add  the  welhbeaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Good  for  delicate  persons 
and  children. 

MUTTON  BROTH.— Boil  slowly  about  2  lbs.  of  lean  mutton  for 

2  hours;  skim  it  carefully;  do  not  put  in  too  much  salt — more  can  be 
added  if  needed;  a  little  barley  or  rice  may  be  added;  strain,  and  take 
off  all  fat  with  blotting  paper  drawn  across  it. 

CHICKEN  BROTH.— Put  half  the  chicken  into  a  small  stew=pan 
with  a  teaspoon  of  rice,  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  with  cold 
water  and  boil  slowly  until  the  meat  falls  from  the  bones;  then  take 
out  the  chicken,  leave  the  rice  in,  and  serve.     Very  nutritious. 

ESSENCE  OF  MEAT.— Take  1  pound  of  good  lean  beef  (have 
it  free  from  fat  and  skin),  chop  it  into  small  jjieces,  and  put  it  into  a 
glass  fruit  jar  adding  1  tablespoon  of  water,  and  screw  on  the  cover; 
set  it  in  cold  water,  heat  gradually  to  150°  to  160°  (don't  let  it  boil), 
and  keep  it  there  2  hours;  the  water  in  the  outside  kettle  must  not 
get  into  the  fruit  jar;  remove  all  fat  with  a  piece  of  clean  blotting  pa- 
per, and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Chicken  or  any  other  meat 
can  be  treated  the  same  way.  The  pure  essence  of  meat,  thus  ex- 
tracted, will  be  received  by  the  most  delicate  stomach,  and  is  also 
valuable  where  considerable  nutriment  is  required  in  a  concentrated 
form.  A  single  tablespoon  can  be  taken  by  an  invalid,  and  would 
afford  as  much  sustenance  as  ^  pint  of  broth.  It  becoihes  a  jelly 
when  cold,  and  may  in  this  way  be  eaten  with  chicken  or  game. 


582  INVALID  COOKERY 

STEWED  BEEF  ESSENCE.— Cut  i  lb.  of  beef  into  bits,  salt  it, 
and  in  a  few  minutes,  squeeze  it,  let  it  stand  ^  hour,  heat  hot,  but  do 
not  boil  it,  and  serve  at  once. 

BROILED  BEEF  JUICE.— Broil  ^  lb.  of  round  steak  1  or  2  min- 
utes on  each  side,  cut  in  bits,  squeeze  out  the  juice,  salt  and  serve. 

BROILED  STEAK — Wipe  the  steak  with  a  clean,  wet  cloth, 
take  a  piece  of  the  fat  to  grease  the  gridiron,  broil  over  a  bright  fire 
4  or  5  minutes,  turn  often,  put  on  a  hot  plate,  season  with  salt,  pep- 
per and  a  little  butter. 

TOASTED  MUTTON — Cut  very  thin  slices  from  loin  of  mutton, 
with  a  sharp  knife.  Lay  each  slice  on  a  toasting  fork,  and  toast  over 
a  clear  hot  fire.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  It  may  be 
eaten  with  a  thin  piece  of  toast. 

MEAT  PATTY. — Scrape  a  piece  of  lean  beef=steak  with  a  very 
dull  knife,  holding  it  with  the  left  hand,  and  scraping  from  you  with 
the  right.  This  removes  the  tender  meat  fiber  and  leaves  the  tough 
connective  tissue.  Press  the  former  into  a  thin  cake  or  patty,  and 
broil  on  a  toasting  fork  over  a  very  hot  fire.  When  done,  season  to 
taste.  Eaten  with  toast  or  thin  cut  bread  and  butter  it  makes  a  very 
delicate  dish.  The  cake  or  patty,  prepared  as  above,  may  also  be 
fried  in  a  little  butter,  and  will  be  found  very  nutritious,  and  a  weak 
stomach  will  retain  it. 

RAW  BEEF  SANDWICHES.— Scrape  fine  2  or  3  tablespoons  of 
raw,  juicy,  tender  beef,  season  slightly  with  salt  and  pepper,  spread 
on  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  put  it  in  a  toaster  and  toast  slightly. 

COOKING  EGGS  FOR  INVALIDS.— Put  3  cups  of  boiling  water 
into  a  skillet  and  add  a  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  a  little  salt.  Have  it 
boiling  hot,  then  break  the  eggs  in,  and  cover  and  set  back  where 
they  will  not  boil.  Let  the  eggs  remain  in  until  they  cook  white  on 
top,  but  not  hard. 

STEAMED  EGGS. — Put  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  new  milk  in  plain 
patty  tins,  and  break  fresh  eggs  into  them;  add  a  little  salt  and  put 
into  the  steamer  and  steam  until  white,  over  the  yolks,  but  not  long 
enough  to  harden  them.  Eggs  thus  prepared  are  very  nice  and  look 
very  inviting. 

BEEF  TEA. — Mince  a  pound  of  tender  beef,  free  from  fat,  and 
put  it  into  a  covered  crockery  jar;  pour  on  barely  enough  cold  water 
to  cover  the  meat,  and  allow  it  to  soak  2  or  3  hours;  then  place  it 
on  the  stove  or  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  let  it  simmer  (donH  let  it 


INVALID  COOKERY  583 

boil — it  should  not  go  above  160°)  for  2  or  3  hours  longer,  adding  a 
little  water  from  time  to  time  as  it  evaporates;  strain  and  season  to 
taste.  To  make  it  more  nourishing  a  little  arrowroot,  rice  or  barley 
may  be  added. 

Mutton  or  Veal  may  be  treated  the  same  way. 

If  beef  tea  must  be  had  quickly  broil  a  thick  piece  of  steak,  turning 
it  often,  to  keep  in  the  juices,  as  explained  elsewhere  for  broiling; 
then  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  and  press  it  in  a  lemon  squeezer. 

Prof.  Liebig's  Beef  Tea. — A  saltspoon  of  the  extract  (Liebig's)  is 
stirred  in  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Add  salt  and  pepper  as  desired. 
If  too  much  of  the  extract  is  used,  which  is  a  common  mistake,  the 
drink  has  a  bitter  taste.  Dry  toast  eaten  with  it  makes  a  palatable 
dish. 

BROILED  BEEF  TEA — Broil  ^  lb.  of  lean,  juicy  beef  1  minute 
on  each  side,  cut  in  small  pieces,  pour  over  it  ^  cup  of  boiling  water, 
squeeze  it,  salt  the  juice  and  serve  instantly.     Do  not  heat  it  again. 

STEWED  BEEF  TEA — Use  |  lb.  of  round  steak,  cut  fine,  soak 
it  in  1  cup  of  water  -|  hour,  let  it  heat  (not  boil),  strain,  salt  and 
serve.  (In  making  beef  tea  it  is  well  to  know  that  1  lb.  of  the  round 
will  yield  4  oz.  of  beef  extract,  and  contains  more  nutriment  and  is 
much  cheaper  than  extract  bought  ready  prepared. ) 

APPLE  WATER — Cut  3  or  4  apples  in  slices,  pour  boiling 
water  over,  allow  to  stand  2  or  3  hours,  strain,  and  sweeten  slightly. 
This  is  a  very  refreshing  drin 

BARLEY  WATER.— To  1  cup  of  barley  (first  washed)  add  1 
quart  of  water.  Allow  to  simmer  until  J  has  boiled  away.  Strain, 
and  to  this  add  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  dissolved  in  1  cup  of  hot  water- 
This  is  an  excellent  drink  in  febrile  affections;  also  it  is  very  refresh- 
ing and  somewhat  nourishing.  To  make  a  mild  laxative  drink,  for 
children,  add  to  the  barley  8  or  10  figs  cut  in  pieces.  It  is  a  delight- 
ful drink,  and  quite  laxative. 

RICE  WATER.— Wash  2  oz.  of  rice;  boil  1  hour  in  2  quarts  of 
water;  strain,  and  sweeten;  flavor  with  nutmeg.  It  is  a  very  pleasant 
drink  and  efiicacious  in  the  bowel  troubles  of  children. 

TOAST  WATER.— Cut  4  slices  of  bread  thin;  toast  to  near 
burning.  Pour  over  them  1  quart  of  boiling  water  and  allow  to  cool, 
and  strain.  It  may  be  flavored  with  a  little  lemon  juice.  This  is  a 
most  wholesome  and  refreshing  drink. 

HOT  LEMONADE. — Peel  the  yellow  rind  off  1  lemon,  squeeze, 
and  add  a  glass  of  boiling  water;  sweeten  with  crushed  sugar.    This 


584  INVALID  COOKERY 

is  an  excellent  drink  in  the  feverish  condition  of  colds.  It  will 
quickly  induce  perspiration. 

EGG  AND  LEMON  JUICE.— Dissolve  1  oz.  sugar  in  1  pint  of 
water,  and  stir  in  the  juice  of  1  lemon;  add  the  white  of  1  egg  and 
froth  up.     Ice  it  if  desired. 

EGG  DRINK — Use  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  1  teacup  milk. 
Beat  the  egg  well  in  a  cup  with  the  sugar,  put  the  milk  on  to  boil, 
and  when  it  boils  pour  it  over  the  egg,  beating  with  a  fork  all  the 
time.     It  is  refreshing  and  invigorating. 

EGG  AND  LIME  WATER/— To  a  wine  glass  of  lime  water  add 
the  white  of  1  egg  beaten  so  it  will  not  string.  Give  it  in  small 
quantity  and  often.  It  is  excellent  in  obstinate  vomiting  and  irrita- 
tion of  the  stomach. 

LIME  WATER — Put  2  teaspoons  of  lime  water  in  |  tumbler  of 
milk;  add  a  little  sugar  to  taste.  This  will  often  be  retained  when 
the  stomach  rejects  all  other  kinds  of  food.  The  same  may  be  said 
of  milk  and  soda  water  in  equal  proportions.  We  explain  elsewhere 
how  to  make  lime  water. 

FLAXSEED  TEA — To  1  cup  water  allow  1  tablespoon  flaxseed; 
pour  on  the  water  boiling  hot,  boil  5  minutes  and  strain.  Sweeten 
with  sugar,  and  for  flavor  add  a  little  lemon  or  orange  juice. 

LINSEED  TEA — Boil  2  tablesjDoons  of  the  unground  linseed  in 
3  pints  of  water  untd  reduced  to  a  quart;  strain,  and  add  lemon  juice 
to  relieve  the  flat  taste.  A  very  useful  drink  in  colds  and  coughs. 
It  is  also  good  in  affections  of  the  urinary  organs. 

LICORICE  TEA. — Take  2  oz.  each  of  licorice  and  marshmallow 
root;  boil  m  3  pints  of  water  down  to  a  quart.  Allow  it  to  stand  to 
settle;  then  strain  through  muslin.  It  is  a  very  desirable  drink  in 
colds,  etc. 

SLIPPERY  ELM  TEA — Boil  1  oz.   in  a  quart  of  water  until  i 
boiled  away.     Pour  off,  and  flavor  with  lemon  juice  if  desirH 
Useful  in  the  same  cases  as  the  former. 

RENNET  WHEY — Infuse  a  piece  of  the  rennet  in  a  little  boil- 
ing water,  as  for  making  cheese;  let  it  remain  1  or  2  hours;  put  a 
tablespoon  of  this  fluid  into  3  pints  of  new  milk,  just  warmed  (not 
hot).  Cover  it  with  a  cloth  and  let  stand  siill  until  the  curd  is  form- 
ed thick  on  the  top;  press  out,  and  use  the  whey. 

WINE  WHEY.— Add  to  a  pint  of  milk,  brought  to  the  boiling 
point,  sufficient  madeira  or  sherry  wine  to  coagulate  it.  Strain, 
sweeten  or  flavor  to  the  t,a»t^ 


INVALID  COOKEKY 


585 


RICE  AND  MILK.— Wash  3  tablespoons  of  rice;  put  in  a  saucer 
ipan  with  a  pint  of  milk;  allow  to  simmer  until  rice  is  soft,  stirring 
from  time  to  time  to  prevent  burning;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste. 
This  is  a  nice  dish  for  children,  especially  when  troubled  with  sum- 
mer complaint. 

Tapioca,  Macaroni,  Vermicelli  etc.,  may  be  treated  in  the  same  way. 
They  make  very  palatable  dishes. 

SWISS  CREAM. — Boil  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk  with  a  little  cin- 
namon or  lemon  peel;  rub  a  teaspoon  of  flour  in  a  small  c^uantity  of 
milk,  and  add  it  to  the  rest,  stirring  it  on  the  fire. 

ASSES'  MILK — This  is  much  like  human  milk  in  consistency, 
but  contains  a  little  less  cream  and  more  soft  caseous  matter.  It 
is  often  used  by  persons  afilicted  with  lung  affections,  and  is  consider- 
ed very  strengthening. 

Artiiicial  asses'  milk  may  be  made  by  dissolving  2  oz.  of  sugar 
of  milk  in  1  pint  of  warm,  skimmed,  cow's  milk.  Another  recipe  for 
artificial  asses'  milk  is  ^  oz.  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  quart  of  hot 
barley  water,  then  add  1  oz.  of  refined  sugar,  and  then  1  pint  of  new 
cow's  milk  and  beat  all  together. 

ARROWROOT.  —  Mix     2 

teaspoons  of  arrowroot  with  1 
tablespoon  of  cold  water,  then 
add  I  pint  of  boiling  milk  and 
boil  10  minutes.  Sweeten  to 
taste  and  add  nutmeg  or  pow- 
dered cinnamon.  It  is  light 
and  agreeable  for  a  delicate 
stomach. 

Aeeowkoot. — This  is  a  species 
of  starch  obtained  from  the  roots  of 
a  variety  of  plants  cultivated  chiefly 
in  the  West  Indies.  The  origin  of 
the  name  is  said  to  be  the  use  by  the 
Indians  of  the  fresh  roots  to  cure  the  abboweoot. 

wounds  caused  by  poisoned    arrows. 

Any  kind  of  starch  to  be  difjestible 
should  boil  10  to  20  minutes.      It  is  not  enough  to  cook  it  until  it  swells,  but  it 
must  be  cooked  until  the  starch  granules  burst  their  sheaths.     Starch  preparations 
are  often  cooked  too  little. 

GOAT'S  MILK. — This  is  considered  very  good  for  invalids  in 
some  conditions.  It  resembles  cow's  milk,  but  the  butter  contained 
in  it  is  harder  than  that  of  the  cow. 

Artificial  goat's  milk  is  made  by  taking  a  piece  of  fresh  calf's 
suet  the  size  of  an  egg,  tying  it  in  a  cloth,  scalding  it  in  a  quart  of 


686^  INVALID  COOKITRT 

new  milk,  and  adding  a  level  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar.  The 
suet  must  be  cut  finely,  or  chopped,  and  tied  loosely  in  a  thin  piece 
of  muslin  or  lace.  This  is  excellent  for  scrofulous  children,  and  any 
person  suffering  from  affections  of  the  lungs. 

FRANQIPANE — This  is  a  preparation  for  invalids  made  by 
evaporating  to  a  thick  consistency  (in  a  double  boiler)  milk  mixed 
with  blanched  and  pounded  sweet  almonds,  and  a  little  sugar. 

SUET  AND  MILK — To  1  pint  of  new  milk  add  1  cup  of  scraped 

veal  suet  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Scald  together  for  an  hour,  then 
strain,  and  add  a  little  flavoring  if  liked.  This  is  a  nourishing  drink 
for  an  invalid  or  delicate  child. 

MILK  OR  CREAM  TOAST.— Toast  a  slice  of  bread  uniformly 
brown.  Break  the  crust  by  rolling,  and  add  sufficient  hot  milk  or 
cream  to  thoroughly  soak  it.     Sweeten  with  powdered  gugar. 

SIPPETS. — When  the  stomach  cannot  bear  meat,  toast  some 
slices  of  bread,  lay  them  on  a  hot  plate,  and  pour  hot  meat  gravy 
over  them;  add  salt  to  taste. 

BOILED  OR  BAKED  FLOUR.— Tie  some  flour  in  a  cloth  as  if 
it  were  a  jjudding,  put  it  in  boiling  water  and  boil  for  3  hours;  then 
scrape  down  the  inner  part  of  the  ball,  and  use  a  tablespoon  in  a  pint 
of  milk  to  make  a  gruel.  Or  put  the  flour  on  a  tin  in  the  oven  and 
bake  it  till  it  is  a  light  brown;  then  use  as  before.  Both  these  prep- 
arations are  more  digestible  than  uncooked  flour. 

GRUELS Corn=starch,   Rice,    Wheat   Flour  or   Arrowroot.  —  Wet   2 

teaspoons  of  the  flour  in  cold  water  or  milk,  stir  it  into  1  cup  of 
boiling  water,  add  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  boil  10  to  15  minutes;  thin  it 
with  ^  cup  of  milk. 

Barley  Gruel.— Wash  ^  cup  of  pearl  barley  and  boil  it  in  1  pint  of 
water  for  20  minutes;  pour  off  this  water  and  add  1  quart  of  fresh 
boiling  water;  let  it  boil  until  reduced  ^;  strain,  and  add  the  rind  of 
a  lemon  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

Codfish  Gruel — Freshen  a  tablespoon  of  shredded  codfish  to  taste; 
add  to  it  1  teaspoon  sifted  flour,  and  1  cup  of  boiling  water — allow- 
ing it  to  simmer  long  enough  to  thoroughly  cook  the  flour;  add  a 
very  little  butter,  and  eat  with  toasted  cracker. 

Cornmeal  or  Oatmeal  Gruel — Mix  ^  cup  of  the  meal  with  a  little 
cold  water;  then  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and 
boil  25  or  30  minutes.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  a  little  nutmeg. 
This  makes  a  nice  light  nourishment  for  the  sick  or  convalescent. 

Cracker  Gruel — To  4  tablespoons  of  powdered  cracker,  wet  with 
boiling  water,  add  2  cups  of  hot  milk. 


INVALID  COOKEEY  587 

Egg  Gruel. — Beat  well  1  egg,  white  and  yolk  separately;  pour  1 
cup  of  boiling  water  or  milk  to  the  yolk,  add  1  teaspoon  of  sugar; 
mix  well,  and  stir  in  the  white. 

Onion  Gruel — Slice  and  cut  finely  2  or  3  small  onions;  stew  them 
in  a  quart  of  water  until  they  are  soft;  then  add  a  teaspoon 
of  good  extract  of  beef.  This  is  excellent  for  a  cold.  Or 
the  onions  may  be  stewed  in  milk  instead  of  water,  and  a 
sprinkle  of  oatmeal  and  a  pinch  of  pepper  stirred  in, 
instead  of  the  meat  extract  if  preferred.  Take  it  just 
before  getting  into  bed, 

MILK  PORRIDGE.— Boil  24  raisins  cut  in  quarters, 
in  water  enough  to  cover  them,  20  minutes;  when  iDlump, 
and  the  water  has  evaporated,  add  2  cups  of  milk,  and 
when  boiling  add  1  teaspoon  of  flour  rubbed  to  a  paste;  let 
it  boil  up,  then  with  a  little  cold  milk  add  the  white  of  an  onion. 
egg  well  beaten. 

OATMEAL  JELLY  OR  STIFF  PORRIDGE.— Boil  a  pint  of 
water,  and  while  it  is  still  on  the  fire,  stir  in  small  quantities  of  oat- 
meal very  fast,  sprinkling  it  in,  until  it  is  rather  thick;  then  boil  it 
slowly  ^  hour.  Turn  it  out  into  a  soup  plate,  and  eat  it  with  milk,  or 
syrup,  or  butter  and  salt. 

ELM  JELLY — To  1  quart  of  water  add  4  tablespoons  chipj)ed 
slippery  elm,  and  let  it  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  strain  off 
the  water,  add  1  or  2  slices  of  lemon  (without  seeds),  sweeten,  and 
let  it  boil  for  10  minutes.  Remove  the  lemon,  and  pour  it  into  a 
mold  to  cool  and  harden. 

RICE  JELLY — Make  a  thin  paste  of  2  oz.  of  rice  flour  and  3  oz. 
of  loaf  sugar;  boil  them  in  a  quart  of  water  till  transparent.  Flavor 
with  rose,  orange,  or  cinnamon  water.  It  can  be  made  also  by  boil- 
ing whole  rice  long  and  slowly.     A  pinch  of  salt  improves  it. 

TAPIOCA  JELLY — Choose  the  largest  sort,  j)our  on  cold  water 
to  wash  it  2  or  3  times,  then  soak  it  in  fresh  water  5  or  0  hours,  and 
simmer  it  in  the  same  until  it  becomes  clear,  adding  the  peel  of  1 
lemon;  then  add  sugar,  and  lemon  juice.  It  thickens  very  much 
Wine  is  also  sometimes  added  for  invalids. 

RESTORATIVE  JELLY — Use  1  box  of  gelatine,  1  tablespoon 
of  powdered  gum  arable,  ^  pint  of  port  wine,  juice  of  -^  a  Jenion,  3 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  3  whole  cloves;  put  all  in  a  covered  glass 
jar,  set  it  on  a  plate  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  let  it  soak  ^  hour,  put  it 
on  the  fire,  and  heat  slowly;  when  all  is  dissolved,  stir  well,  and 
strain  into  a  shallow  dish,  and  cut  in  squares. 


588  INVALID  COOKERY 

WINE  JELLY — Use  |  cup  of  gelatine;  soak  soft  in  ^  cup  of 
cold  water;  then  jjomt  in  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  juice  of  1  lemon,  1 
cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sherry  wine;  stir  and  strain  through  a  cloth 
into  a  mold.     , 

CRACKER  PANADA. — Pour  over  3  or  4  crackers,  in  a  sauce-pan^ 
enough  water  to  barely  cover  them.  Boil  2  or  3  minutes.  Pour  off 
the  surplus  water,  and  add  enough  hot  milk  or  cream  to  soak  them. 
Sweeten  with  powdered  sugar. 

ICELAND  MOSS — Wash  1  oz.  in  boiling  water;  then  boil 
slowly  in  a  pint  of  water  until  quite  soft.  Strain  through  cloth,  and 
sweeten.     When  done  it  will  make  a  very  palatable  dish. 

Iceland    Moss. — This   is   really   a   lichen,  not   a   moss.     It 
grows  in  northern  latitudes.     Its  bitter  taste  is  due  to  an  acid  it  v.v<fti. 

contains,  but  by  soaking  it  in  a  weak  solution  of  carbonate  of        ^^^r 
soda  that  can  be  removed.      It  contains  about  10  per  cent,  of        ^ip? 
water,  9   of  albumenoids,  70  of  lichen  starch,  6  of  lichen  acids,       ^i*^^  f^^^ 
3}4  of  cellulose,  and  1%  of  mineral  matter.  ^fel^  V<^ 

Ibish  Moss  is  a  seaweed,  collected  mostly  on  the  coasts  of         "^^X^  "^^i^^ 
Ireland.      Its  chief  constituent  is  a  kind  of  mucilage  which  dis-        ""^^T^SfcAT^ 
solves  to  a  stiff  paste  in  boiling  water;  it  also  contains  a  little  ^^^ 

iodine  and  much  sulphur.     Its  constituents  are,  water  19^,  albu-  "*^ 

menoids   9,  mucilage,  etc.  56,  mineral  matter  li.      It  should  be         Iceland  moss. 
soaked  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  so  before  being  boiled  in 
water  or  milk.      It  will  often  relieve  a  severe  cough,  and  is  fre- 
quently given  in  cases  of  rheumatism  and  gout. 

ARROWROOT  BLANC  MANGE.— Mix  arrowroot  in  the  usual 
way,  but  use  3  times  more  than  you  would  for  gruel;  add  milk  and 


RICE  BLANC  MANGE — Boil  as  much  ground  rice  in  a  pint  of 
milk  as  w411  make  it  thick  enough  to  turn  out  of  a  mold,  sweetening 
and  flavoring  to  taste.  A  sauce  can  be  added  of  milk,  cream,  or  any 
invalid  custard. 

Sago  Blanc  Mange  is  made  the  same  way,  first  washing  the  sago  in 
several  waters. 

Tapioca  Blanc  Mange  is  made  the  same  way,  washing  the  tapioca, 
and  using  less  of  it. 

TAQANROK  BLANC  MANGE.— Put  2  cups  milk  in  a  double 
boiler,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  and  sprinkle  in  2  tablespoons  taganrok 
farina,  stirring  all  the  time;  add  ^  teaspoon  salt,  and  cook  30  min- 
utes, stirring  often;  then  turn  into  a  mold  which  has  been  wet  with 
cold  water;  let  cool,  and  serve  ice  cold  with  cream  and  sugar. 
(Taganrok  is  Russian  wheat  farina.  It  can  be  bought  in  small 
packages  at  the  stores.) 


CARVING. 

fT^ARYING  is  an  art — it  is  to  be  regretted  that  it  is  an  art  so 
I  y^  little  understood,  for  there  are  far  too  many  poor  and  indif- 
i^  ferent  carvers  in  the  world.  Every  man  and  woman  must  at 
times  be  called  on  to  carve,  and  they  should  certainly  know 
how  to  do  so  properly.  A  joint  of  meat  will  go  very  much  farther, 
and  the  guests  will  be  much  better  served  when  handled  by  a  skilful, 
than  by  a  poor  and  awkward  carver. 

It  is  not  difficult  to  learn  to  carve  well,  and  it  ought  to  be  a  pari 
of  the  education  of  every  boy  and  girl.  Certainly  it  is  an  accom- 
plishment they  may  be  proud  to  possess,  and  it  will  often  save  them 
from  embarassment.  Any  one  who  will  begin  at  the  beginning  and 
give  the  matter  a  little  thoughtful  study  can  master  the  art,  and  it 
will  be  of  far  more  advantage  in  life  than  many  other  accomplish- 
ments to  which  much  more  time  and  thought  are  given. 

Before  coming  to  the  table  the  knife  should  be  well  sharpened 
and  put  in  good  condition.  It  will  be  very  annoying  to  wait  to 
sharpen  the  knife,  and  without  having  it  sharp  no  one  can  carve 
well.  Keep  the  carving  knife  for  that  purpose  alone,  and  never  use 
it  to  cut  bread  or  other  articles.  During  all  pauses  in  carving,  the 
knife  and  fork  should  be  placed  on  the  knife  rests,  and  not  thrust 
and  left  under  the  meat. 

It  would  be  much  better  if  instead  of  sending  all  the  gravy  to 
the  table  at  first,  a  portion  was  reserved  to  be  sent  in  hot  for  the  "sec- 
ond help."  To  have  the  meat  swimming  in  a  platter  full  of  gravy  is 
not  at  all  desirable.  Many  platters  are  now  made  with  a  well  to 
receive  and  hold  the  gravy.  When  such  a  dish  is  not  used,  a  crust  of 
bread  can  be  slipped  under  the  platter  to  tip  it  a  little  and  cause  the 
gravy  to  run  to  one  side,  but  to  tilt  up  the  plate  with  one  hand,  while 
the  gravy  is  ladled  out  with  the  other,  is  considered  inelegant. 

The  dish  upon  which  the  article  to  be  carved  is  placed  should 
be  near  the  carver,  so  that  he  may  have  full  control  of  it.  If  placed 
far  away,  ungracefulness  in  appearance  and  difficulty  in  performing 
the  task  are  inevitable.  Any  display  of  exertion  reflects  either  on 
the  skill  of  the  carver  or  the  quality  of  the  meat.  Work  deliberately 
and  carefully,  and  try  to  divide  the  material  so  that  all  may  be 
served  equally  well,  and  when  serving  the  meat  lay  the  best  side  up. 

589 


590 


CARVING 


The  directions  which  we  give,  and  the  illustrations  accompany- 
ing them,  will  make  the  best  methods  of  carving  clear.  Always  do 
the  best  you  can  while  carving,  but  as  practice  alone  makes  perfect, 
no  opportunity  to  practice  should  be  lost,  for  thus  alone  can  the 
facility  so  essential  to  ease  be  acquired. 

TONGUE — This  can  be  carved  in  either  of  2  ways.     One  is  to 
cut  f  of  the  way  down,  as  shown  by  the 
line  A  B,  and  then  cut  thin,  even  slices  A 

from  each  side,  but  this  method  is  waste- 
ful. A  more  economical  way  is  to  cut 
clear  through  the  tongue,  and  then  cut 
slices  from  each  half.  A  little  fat  should 
be  cut  from  the  root  of  the  tongue  and 
placed  with  each  slice.     Although  it  is 

not  generally  carved  in  that  way,  it  will  be  an  improvement  if  the  tip 
of  the  tongue  is  cut  lengthwise,  in  thin,  even  slices. 

SIRLOIN  OF   BEEF.— A  sirloin  of  beef  may  be  divided  into  2 
parts — the  underwent  or  fillet,  and  the  top  or  rump.     As  the  under- 
cut is  best  served  hot,  and  as  it  is  often  sufficient  to  dine  a  small 
family,   it  is  frequently  carved 
first.     Besides  this  it  is  thought 
that  the   top  presents  a  better 
appearance  when   sent   cold  to 
the   table;   some  families,  how- 
ever,  prefer  to  reserve  the  un- 
der^^cut  for  a  cold  dinner  next 
day — it   is   purely   a   matter  of 
taste. 

If  the  under  side  is  cut  first, 
the  best  way  is  to  remove  the 

fat,  E,  which,  if  not  eaten  at  the  table,  chops  up  well  to  make  pud- 
dings. A  portion  of  the  fat  should  go  with  the  lean  to  each  guest. 
Then  the  meat  can  be  cut  in  good  even  slices  as  shown  by  the  dotted 
lines  H.  For  the  upper  j)ortion,  first  thrust  in  the  knife  and  run  it 
along  the  upper  side  of  the  bone  from  b  to  d,  separating  the  meat. 
Then  with  a  firm,  even  stroke,  cut  as  shown  by  the  dotted  line  A  to  c, 
cutting  down  clear  to  the  bone. 

Each  slice  should  be  thin  and  even,  and  the  sirloin  should  cut 
fairly  to  the  very  end.  Some  persons  cut  across  from  i  to  J,  but  this 
is  a  wasteful  plan,  and  not  to  be  recommended.  As  the  welhdone 
portion  comes  on  the  outside,  and  the  rare  in  the  center,  a  number  of 


SIBLOIN    OF    BEEF. 


oARvma 


591 


BKIBKET    OF    BEEF. 


slices  should  be  cut  off,  and  the  guest  offered  his  choice  between  rare 
and   well=done. 

RIBS  OF  BEEF — These  are  best  cut  in  the  manner  described 
for  the  upper  part  of  the  sirloin.  First  thrust  in  the  kaife  and  sepa- 
rate the  meat  from  the  bone,  and  then  cut  from  end  to  end  (not 
across),  cutting  the  meat  in  thin,  even  slices. 

BRISKET    OF    BEER— A 

brisket  is  very  easy  to  carve — 
cut  across  as  shown  by  the  en- 
graving from  A  to  B.  Cut  mod- 
erately thick  slices,  and  evenly, 
with  a  firm  hand,  down  to  the 
bone,  so  that  it  will  not  have  a 
rough  and  jagged  look  when  re- 
moved. The  carving  knife  used  for  joints  of  this  character  should 
not  be  too  thin. 

ROUND  OF    BEEF.— In 

carving  a  round  of  beef,  or 
ribs  rolled,  a  long,  thin,  and 
very  sharp  knife  should  be 
used.  A  slice  is  cut  off  of  the 
top  leaving  the  surface  flat, 
and  then  very  thin,  even  sli- 
ces should  be  cut  across  as 
shown  in  the  direction  a  to  b. 
A  morsel  of  the  fat  should  be  served  with  each  slice  of  the  lean. 

BREAST  OF  VEAL — First  separate  a  breast  of  veal  into  2 
parts  (it  rightly  consists  of 
2,  the  rib  bones  and  the 
gristly  brisket)  by  passing 
the  knife  along  sharply  in 
the  direction  of  from  a  to 
B.  Then  carve  the  rib 
bones  as  shown  by  e  to  f, 
while  the  gristle  is  carved 
by  cutting  as  shown  by  the  lines  G  to  d.  In  a  breast  of  veal,  stewed, 
these  are  particularly  tender  and  inviting,  and  should  be  offered  to 
those  who  prefer  it.  A  slice  of  the  sAveetbread,  if  it  is  served  with 
the  dish,  should  be  given  to  each  guest. 


BOUND  OF  BEEF. 


0     D  D" 

BBEA8T  OF  VEAL. 


592 


CARVING 


NECK    OF   YEAL. 


NECK  OF  VEAL.— If  this 
is  jointed  by  the  butcher  and  a 
chop  given  to  each  one  it  serves 
them  with  a  gigantic  piece 
much  of  which  will  be  wasted. 
The  best  way  to  carve  it  is  to 
cut  diagonally  as  shown  by  the 
dotted  lines  B  to  c,  and  help  in 
slices    of  moderate    thickness; 

you  can  then  cut  from  o  to  d  in  order  to  separate  the  small  bones,, 
and  divide  and  serve  them,  first  inquiring,  however,  if  they  are  de- 
sired. 

LOIN  OF   VEAL.— 

This  should  be  carved  by 
cutting  along  the  line  in- 
dicated by  A  to  B.  If  the 
butcher  does  his  work  well 
there  is  little  difficulty,  but 
if  not  it  is  hardly  possible 
to  carve  it  decently.  When 
the  loin  is  large,  one  chop 
will  make  two  small  helps;  in  this  case  the  under-cut,  which  is  the 
tenderest  part,  should  be  put  with  the  end,  and  the  bone  and  upper 
left  together.  The  kidney  and  kidney  fat,  which  lie  underneath,  are 
considered  great  delicacies,  and  a  piece  should  be  given  to  each 
guest.  The  most  economical  way  of  serving  loin  of  veal  is  to  bone 
and  roll  it,  when  it  can  be  cut  in  thin  slices  like  a  jfillet. 

KNUCKLE  OF  VEAL— 

Carve  a  knuckle  of  veal  by 
simply  cutting  off  slices  as 
indicated  by  the  line  a  to  b. 
Cut  clear  to  the  bone,  and  oc- 
casionally cut  along  the  bone 
and  horizontally  around  it  to 
clear  the  center.  The  best  sli- 
ces are  those  from  the  thick- 
est part — that  is  near  the  end. 

SHOULDER  OF   VEAL. 

— This  is  sent  to  the  table  with  the  upper  part  placed  uppermost. 
Serve  it  like  a  shoulder  of  mutton,  beginning  at  the  knuckle  end 


LOIN    OF    VEAL. 


KNUCKLE    OF    VE.». 


CARVING 


593 


FILLET  OF  VEAL — This  meat  has  a  tendency  to  break  and 
crumble,  and  should,  therefore,  be  cut  with  a  thin  and  very  sharp 
knife,  in  the  manner  explained  tor  a  round  of  beef.  The  top,  if  it  is 
well  roasted,  is  a  nice  brown,  and  should  be  cut  into  small  pieces, 
and  a  little  served  to  each  one,  unless  it  is  given  as  a  courtesy  to 
some  favored  guest.     Place  a  little  stuffing  on  each  plate. 

CALF'S  HEAD. — Commence  by  making  long  slices  from  end 
to  end  of  the  cheek,  cutting  quite  through  to  the  bone,  as  shown  by 
the  dotted  lines  A  to  b.  Serve  with 
each  slice  a  cut  of  what  is  called  the 
throat  sweetbread,  which  lies  at  the 
fleshy  part  of  the  neck  end.  Cut 
small  slices  also  from  c  to  d  and 
serve  small  pieces  with  the  meat;  they 
are  gelatinous  and  delicious.  The 
tongue  is  served  on  a  separate  plate, 
surrounded  by  the  brains,  and  is  cut 
across  in  rather   thin  slices.      Offer 

,  -t  I  rr\  .1  calf's    HEAD. 

some  to  each  guest.     To  remove  the 

eye  insert  the  knife  at  f,  x)nsh  it  down  to  the  center,  and  turn  around 
as  shown  by  the  dotted  line.  This  will  bring  it  out  cone=shaped  and 
entire.  Some  consider  it  a  titbit.  Then  turn  the  plate  and  remove 
the  jaw,  beginning  to  cut  at  g.  The  palate  is  considered  a  dainty, 
and  a  little  should  be  offered  each  one. 

HAUNCH  OF  MUTTON.— Have  the  dish  placed  so  that  the  loin 
is  nearest  and  the  knuckle  farthest  from  you.  Then  make  an  inci- 
sion from  A  to  B  with  the  point  of  the  knife,  holding  it  rather  up- 
right. Then  cut  from  a  to  c 
with  a  slanting  cut,  not  more 
than  ^  of  an  inch  deep  at  a 
B,  though  it  may  go  to  the 
bone  in  the  middle.  Let 
each  succeeding  cut,  shown 
by  the  dotted  lines  to  c,  be 
sloping,   and   the   gravy  will 

gather  in  the  center,  called  the  "well."  Serve  a  spoonful  of  this 
gravy  with  each  slice  of  meat.  Be  careful  and  not  let  the  gravy  run 
out  into  the  dish.  The  fat  will  be  found  at  c,  and  a  little^  should  be 
served  with  the  meat. 

SADDLE  OF  MUTTON.— The  tail  end  is  divided  in  the  illustra- 
tion,,  and  the  kidnej^s  skewered  under  each  division;  this  is  not  al- 


lUNCH    OF   MUTTON 


594 


CAKVING 


SADDLE    OF    MUTTON. 


ways  done,  as  it  is  a  matter  o£  taste.     Carve  a  saddle  of  mutton  by 

cutting   tliin,   even  slices  a-  

long  each  side  of  the  center 
bone,  in  the  direction  A  to  B; 
help  fat  from  c  to  D.  You 
may  help  from  the  vertabrse 
on  both  sides  the  loin,  and 
then  carve  crosswise,  as  mark 
ed  in  the  engraving,  which 
gives  you  both  fat  a^id  lean. 
Help  a  slice  of  kidney  to 
those  who  desire.      It  is  best 

to  have  relays  of  very  hot  gravy  served  separately,  as  saddle  of  mut- 
ton very  soon  gets  cold.  The  dish  in  which  it  is  served,  as  well  as 
the  plates,  should  be  very  hot, 

NECK   OF   MUTTON— This  is  usually  boiled,  and  then  carved 
by  cutting  it  into  chops,  as  shown  in  the  dotted  line,  and  into  pieces, 
by  bringing  the  knife  between  the  bones,  at  what  is  known  as  the 
scrag  end.    When  the  best  end  of  the  neck 
is  roasted  (this  forms  an  admirable  joint 
for  2  or  3  persons)  it  should  be  carved  like 
a   saddle  of  mutton,  and  the  neck  should 
not  be  jointed  by  the  butcher  (see  remarks 
about   that  on   carving  the   loin).     When 
carved  thus,  nothing  is  wasted;  the  bones 
left  on  the  platter  will  do  for  the  stock=pot, 
while   the   scrapings,  etc.  will  make  a  dish 
of  mince. 

LEG  OF  MUTTON.— The  knife  should  be  carried  down  sharply 
in  the  direction  of  the  line  a  to  b,  and  slices  taken  from  either  side, 
as  the  guests  may  desire, 
some  liking  the  knuckle 
end  because  well  done,  and 
others  preferring  the  rar- 
er parts.  The  fat  should 
be  sought  near  the  line  c 
to  D.  Some  connoisseurs 
are  fond  of  having  this 
joint  dished  with  the  un- 
der side  uppermost,  so  as 
to  get  at  the  finely  grained  meat  lying   underneath,   known  as  the 


NECK  OF  MUTTON. 


LEG  OF  MUTTON. 


CAKvma 


595 


SHOULDEB    OF    MUTTON. 


Pope's  eye  but  that  is  an  extravagant  fashion,  of  carving.  When 
carved  outside  the  room  a  leg  of  mutton  can  be  cut  in  slices  parallel 
with  the  bone,  when  it  has  the  appearance  of,  and  is  practically,  a 
haunch. 

SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON.— Commence   carving   from    a  to  b 
taking  out  moderately  thick  slices  in  the  shajoe  of  a  wedge;  some  nice 
pieces'  may  then  be  helped  from  the  blade  bone,  from  c  to  d,  cutting 
on  both   sides   of  the  bone. 
Out  the  fat  from  E  to  F,  cut- 
ting it  in  thin  slices.      Now 
turn  the  joint  and  carve  the 
under   side  of  the   shoulder, 
as  some  of  the  choicer  parts 
lie   there.      Cut  horizontally 
along  the   whole    length,   as 
from   o  to   D.     Some    tender 
slices  are  met  at  E  to  f,  but 
they  are  cut  as  indicated.     In 

carving  this  joint  the  tastes  of  those  at  the  table  should  be  consulted, 
as  it  has  many  titbits.  It  should  be  served  hot,  as  it  is  very  insipid 
when  cold 

FORE=QUARTER  OF  LAMB.— Place  your  knife  near  the 
knuckle,  and  cut  along  a,  b,  c,  d,  e.  Pass  your  knife  under,  lift 
with  the  fork,  and  the  shoulder  will  come  away.  Do  not  cut  away 
too  much  meat  from  the 
breast,  as  that  will  spoil 
the  appearance.  The  juice 
of  half  a  lemon  is  then 
squeezed  under  the  shoul- 
der, salt  and  pepper  sprink- 
led on,  and  a  small  piece  of 
butter  added,  and  the  parts 
reunited  until  the  butter  is 
melted,  when  the  shoul- 
der is  removed  to  another  plate.  Then  sejjarate  the  ribs  from  the 
brisket  by  cutting  from  p  to  E.  Carve  the  ribs  in  the  direction  of  i  to 
K,  and  the  brisket  from  g  to  h.  Ask  guests  which  part  they  pre- 
fer, ribs,  brisket,  or  a  piece  of  the  shoulder,  and  serve  accordingly. 

OTHER  JOINTS  OF  LAMB.— These  are  carved  exactly  like  the 
corresponding  joints  of  mutton,  and  our  readers  can  refer  to  the  di- 
rections given  for  those. 
41 


FOEE=QUAKTER    OF    LAMB. 


596 


CAKVING 


LOIN    OF    MUTTON. 


LOIN  OF  MUTTON.— The  most  economical  way  of  carvinpj  a 
loin  of  mutton  is  to  carve  it  like  a  saddle,  by 
taking  slices  along  the  line  A  b.  The  end 
can  be  cut  off  before  roasting,  and  will  make 
a  good  stew.  When  carved  in  this  way,  how- 
ever, tell  the  butcher  not  to  joint  the  meat, 
as  each  chop  makes  a  gash  that  lets  out  the 
gravy.  When  the  loin  is  jointed  it  is  too  oft- 
en served  up  in  irregular  chops,  which  are 
only  half  picked,  and  as  much  of  the  meat  is 
wasted  as  is  eaten.  When  it  is  jointed  it  is 
cut  as  indicated  by  the  line  c  to  D- 

LEQ    OF    PORK.— Carve 

this  like  a  leg  of  mutton,  by 
cutting  sharply  down  to  the 
bone  in  the  direction  of  A  to  B. 
Serve  a  piece  of  crackling  with 
each  slice.  When  the  leg  is 
stuffed  ask  if  stuffing  is  liked, 
as  many  persons  object  to  the 
flavor  of  onions.  The  best  way 
to  serve  sage  and  onion  stuffing, 
is  sejDarately  in  a  sauce  tureen. 
Also  serve  apple  sauce,  and  some 
very  hot  gravy  with  it. 

LOIN    OF    PORK 

This  should  be  properly 
jointed  before  cooking,  and 
the  crackling  should  be 
scored.  Then  carve  from 
A  to  B,  dividing  it  into 
neat  and  even  chops.  Stuf- 
fing is  best  served  sepa- 
rately, as  well  as  good  hot 
gravy  in  tureens.  Give  a 
piece  of  crackling  with  each  help. 

HAM.— The  carver  must  judge  whether  he  wishes  to  be  guided 
by  economy,  or  to  get  the  prime  slices  at  once.  On  the  former  plan 
he  will  begin  at  the  knuckle  end  c  to  d,  and  work  gradually  back 


LEG  OF  PORK. 


CARVING 


597 


into  the  ham,  cutting  off  thin  even  slices,  and  leaving  the  knuckle 
bone  bare.     On  the  other 

plan  he  will  begin  by  cut-  ^ 

ting  at  A  to  B,  and  carve 
thin,  wedge  shaped  slices, 
going  clear  to  the  bone, 
and  working  on  the  side 
away  from  the  knuckle. 
The  knife  should  be  very 
sharp  and  thin,  and  the  ex- 
perienced   carver    prefers 

one  which  has  been  worn  down  narrow  as  well  as  thin.  A  third  plan 
is  to  cut  a  circular  hole  at  the  top  e,  and  slice  pieces  off  inside  the 
hole,  gradually  enlarging  the  circle,  but  the  other  plans  are  generally 
considered  preferable.  Send  ham.  to  the  table  with  the  knuckle  or- 
namented with  a  paper  frill,  as  shown  in  our  illustration,  if  con- 
venient. 

SUCKING  PIG. — This  is  usually  sent  to  the  table  as  snown  m 
our  illustration.  First  cut  off  the  shoulder  by  bringing  the  knife 
round  as  shown  by  the 
dotted  line  A,  b,  c.  Then 
cut  off  the  hind  leg  by 
cutting  as  shown  by  the 
dotted  line  A,  b,  c.  The 
ribs  can  now  be  easily  cut 
down  in  the  direction  D  to 
E.  The  other  half  is,  of 
course,  carved  in  the  same 
way.  The  pig  is  some- 
times sent  to  the  table 
whole  In  that  case  first  cut  off  the  head.  Then  cut  directly  down 
the  center  of  the  back  from  neck  to  tail,  dividing  the  pig  in  two. 
Then  proceed  as  above.  A  sucking  pig  is  considered  delicious  eat- 
ing, but  different  parts  are  variously  esteemed,  and  the  carver  should 
consult  the  preferences  of  his  guests.  Give  a  portion  of  the  crack- 
ling to  each  one. 

HAUNCH  OF  VENISON.— The  manner  of  carving  this  is  identi- 
cal with  that  of  a  haunch  of  mutton.  See  the  explanation  given  for 
that. 

NECK  OF  VENISON.— A  neck  if  it  is  kept  just  long  enough, 
but  not  too  long,  is  equal  to  a  haunch.      The  neck,  however,  should 


ROAST    PIG. 


598 


CARVINa 


BOILED  BABBIT. 


never  be  jointed,  as  that  ruins  it.  In  carving,  cut  parallel  with  the 
spine,  as  explained  for  a  loin  of  mutton  (which  see).  Slices  of  fat 
will  be  found  lower  down,  and  a  little  can  be  served  each  guest. 

BOILED     RABBIT — 

Draw  the  knife  on  each 
side  of  the  back  bone  the 
whole  length  of  the  rab- 
bit, as  shown  by  the  line 
A  to  B,  thus  dividing  it  in- 
to 3  parts.  Now  divide 
the  back  into  2  parts,  cut- 
ting in  the  direction  of  the 

line  c  to  D.  Then  take  off  the  leg  by  cutting  along  the  line  E  to  F; 
the  joint  will  readily  disclose  itself.  Cut  the  shoulder  as  shown  at  G 
to  H.  The  tenderest  part  is  on  the  loins.  There  are  other  x:»lans  of 
carving  a  rabbit,  but  we  think  this  the  best.  With  a  very  large  rab- 
bit, slices  may  first  be  cut  out  of  the  back,  parallel  with  the  backbone; 
then  take  off  the  legs,  and  then  divide  the  back  as  at  c  to  D. 

ROAST  RABBIT.— The  trussing  of  a  roast  rabbit  is  rather  differ- 
ent from  one  which  is 
boiled,  but  the  carving  is 
quite  similar.  Cut  as 
many  slices  of  moderate 
thickness  from  A  to  B  as 
it  will  give,  and  then  dis- 
engage the  legs  and  shoul- 
ders as  with  boiled  rabbit. 
The  loins  are  the  tenderest  part. 

ROAST  TURKEY.— The  chief  efPort  should  be  to  obtain  as  many 
slices  as  possible  from 
the  breast;  it  is  re- 
markable how  many 
more  a  good  carver 
will  obtain  than  a 
poor  one.  A  skilful 
carver  knows  the  lo- 
cation of  the  joints, 
and  easily  manages 
the  dissection.  Com- 
mence by  carving  sli- 
ces from  both  sides  of 
the  breast  in  the  direction  of  the  lines  B  to  o,  beginning  close  to  the 


BOAST  BABBIT. 


BOAST  TUBKEY. 


CARVING  599 

wing  and  working  upwards  towards  the  ridge  of  the  breastbone. 
Then  separate  the  legs  by  passing  the  knife  along  a  to  h,  and 
on  turning  the  leg  out  a  little  with  the  fork  the  joint  will  dis- 
close itself;  then  divide  the  thigh  from  the  drumstick.  Separate  the 
pinion  carefully  and  neatly  from  the  body.  The  stuffing  can  be  ob- 
tained by  making  an  opening  at  B. 

BOILED  TURKEY— This  is  trussed  in  a  little  different  manner 
from  a  roast  turkey,  but  it  is  carved  in  the  same  way 

ROAST  FOWL — Have  the  fowl  lie  upon  its  back,  with  the 
tail  to  the  left.  Insert  the  fork  into  the  breast  firmly,  a  little  to  the 
left  of  the  center,  with  a  prong  on  either  side  of  the  ridge  of  the 
breastbone.  Insert  the  knife  between  the  leg  and  the  side  and  press 
back  the  leg  with  the  blade  of  the  knife;  the  thighbone  will  leave  the 
socket,  and  only  a  little  assistance  of  the 

knife  is  needed  to  free  the  leg.      Remove  ^^-'T'--*^ 

the   wing  by  cutting  from  b  to  D;  press  ^^^^^^^       A 

out  the  knife  and  the  joint  will  come  apart;  ^^^^TT^?^^^ 

then  separate  it  from  the  body.  Remo-ve  ^^^^p^^°^^^^^ 
the  merrythought  and  neck  bones  by  in-  M3^^fesi|g^^^^^P 
serting  the  knife  and  forcing  it  under  the  boast  fo^^^T" 

bones  as  at  c  to  d;   raise   it  and  it  will 

readily  separate  from  the  breast.  Divide  the  breast  from  the  body 
by  cutting  through  the  small  ribs  down  to  the  vent,  turn  the  back 
uppermost,  put  the  knife  into  about  the  center  between  the  neck  and 
rump,  raise  the  lower  part  firmly  yet  gently,  and  it  will  easily  sep- 
arate; then  turn  the  neck  or  rump  from  you  and  take  off  the  side 
bones. 

In  separating  the  thigh  from  the  drumstick  the  knife  must  be 
inserted  exactly  at  the  joint  or  much  difficulty  will  be  experienced. 
In  very  young  fowls  the  breast  is  served  whole ;  the  wings  and  breast 
are  preferred.  A  very  large  fowl  is  often  carved  like  a  turkey,  which 
see. 

BOILED  FOWL — This  is  carved  the  same  as  roast  fowl.  The 
knife  should  be  very  sharp,  and  it  should  be  carved  with  a  sort  of 
drawing  cut,  instead  of  using  much  downward  pressure,  as  the 
boiled  white  flesh  is  apt  to  crumble. 

CAPONS. — These  when  very  fine  and  roasted,  should  have  sli- 
ces carved  from  the  breast,  like  a  turkey.  See  our  di^-ections  for  carv- 
ing a  turkey. 

ROAST  GOOSE. — In  carvini;-  a  goose  the  first  effort  should  be  to 


GOO 


CARVING 


EOAST  GOOSE. 


cut  as  many  slices  as  possible  from  the  breast,  and  to  do  this  the 
meat  attached  to  the  wings 
liiiist  be  sacrificed.  Turn 
the  neck  end  of  the  goose 
towards  you,  and  cut  the 
Vv'hole  breast  in  long  slices 
from  one  wing  to  the  oth- 
er; see  the  dotted  lines  b  to 
c.  To  separate  the  legs, 
turn  the  goose  on  its  side, 
and  cut  with  the  knife  as  near  to  the  carcass  as  possible  until  stopped 
by  the  bone;  then  raise  the  leg  with  the  fork  and  it  can  be  easily 
separated  from  the  body.  To  take  off  the  wing,  insert  the  fork  in  the 
small  end  of  the  pinion  and  press  it  close  to  the  body,  then  put  the 
knife  in  above  and  divide  the  joint.  Make  an  incision  at  A,  A,  A,  and 
offer  a  little  of  the  stuffing  to  each  one. 

ROAST  DUCK — In  carving  a  duck  a  good  deal  depends  on  its 
size  and  fatness.  A  large  duck  with  plenty  of  fat  on  the  breast  is 
carved  like  a  goose  (which  see),  first  cutting  slices  oft'  the  breast,  and 
then  removing  the  legs  and  wings.  Then  remove  the  neckbone,  or 
merrythought,  as  it  is  sometimes  called,  and  then  the  whole  breast- 
bone is  separated  from  the  rest  by  cutting  through  the  sides.  The 
backbone  easily  divides  in  two  by  being  ijressed  downwards.  A  lit- 
tle stuffing  is  served  with  each  portion.  A  small  or  young  duck  is 
carved  the  same  as  directed  for  a  fowl. 

PARTRIDGE. — The  usual  way  is  to  place  the  bird  on  its  back 
and   carry   the   knife   sharply   along   the   breastbone   and  cut  clear 
through,  thus  dividing  the  bird  into  2  equal  portions.     Another  way 
is  to  cut  it  into  3  pieces  by  severing  a 
small  wing  and  leg  from  the  body  by 
following  the  line  A  to  B,  thus  mak- 
ing 2  helpings,  when  the  breast  will 
remain  for  a  third. 

PIGEONS — These  are  usually 
cut  in  half,  like  the  partridge,  by  cut- 
ting through  the  breast  and  back,  and  a  half  is  sent  to  each  person. 

SNIPE. — One  of  these  is  usually  sent  whole  to  a  gentleman, 
but  for  a  lady  it  is  generally  divided  in  halves,  as  explained  for  a 
partridge. 

Woodcock,  Quails,  and  other  Small  Birds,  are  served  like  snipe,  or 
halved  and  served  on  toast. 


PARTBIDGE. 


CASVING  601 

WILD  DUCKS. — The  breast  of  these  is  considered  the  choice 
portion,  and  is  divided  in  slices.  If  necessary  the  leg  and  wing  can 
be  taken  off  as  described  for  roast  fowl. 

SWEETBREADS,  CHOPS,  AND  CUTLETS.— Serve  1  to  each 
person  without  dividing  it. 

POACHED  EGGS,  QUAILS,  AND  OTHER  MEATS  ON  TOAST. 

—Use  a  broad  knife,  lift  the  toast  carefully,  and  without  displacing 
the  egg  or  bird  transfer  it  to  the  guest's  plate 

FISH. — More  care  than  knowledge  is  required  in  carving  fish, 
as  the  princiiDal  thing  is  to  avoid  breaking  the  flakes.  Still  the  car- 
ver should  be  acquainted  with  the  choicest  parts  and  should  aim  to 
give  each  guest  an  equal  share  of  the  titbits.  Steel  knives 
and  forks  should  not  be  used  in  helping  fish  as  they  are  liable  to 
impart  a  very  disagreeable  flavor  to  it.  Silver  plated  ones  can  easily 
be  obtained  when  the  solid  silver  is  considered  too  expensive,  and 
should  be  used. 

COD — Whether  a  codfish  is  sent  to  the  table  whole,  or  only  a 
part  is  served,  like  the  head  and  shoulders,  it  is  best  to  make  1  cut 
from  the  head  towards  the  tail  (or  vice  versa)  down  to  the  bone, 
A,   B,   and  then  cut  slices 

across   from   this    line    to  ,c™..jc  c 

the  side  c  c,  d  d.       When  ^5{r'*"^^^^^^^B?5>^j^ 

codfish  breaks  into  flakes,       ^^^~^_  )  j^—-—--\--\----—b  "^•'•nnww-,^^^ 
which  it  is  very  apt  to  do,       ^^jC^  //^^-aags^"''"^ 

they  should  be  lifted  with  ^  o 

the  fish  knife,  and  one  or  ^^^' 

more,   according  to   their 

size,  served  to  each  person.  Also  serve  a  piece  of  the  sound,  (which 
is  found  lining  the  back,  and  may  be  obtained  by  passing  the  knife 
under  the  backbone)  with  each  help.  Give  also  a  piece  of  the  liver, 
which  should  be  divided  into  pieces  enough  to  go  around.  The 
gelatinous  parts  about  the  head  and  neck  are  considered  a  delicacy. 

HADDOCK,  BASS,  BLUEFISH,  SMALL  SALMON,  ETC.— 
These  are  carved  much  the  same  as  cod. 

THE  TURBOT.— This  is  carved  much  like  cod,  first  ruuniiig  the 
knife  lengthwise  of  the  fish,  quite  to  the  bone,  and  then  cutting 
slices  to  the  sides  as  directed  above  for  cod. 

WHITEFISH,  MACKEREL,  ETC. -Divide  the  moat  from  the 
bones   by   cutting   down  the  back  lengthwise.       Remove  the  lu'ail, 


602  CAKVING 

tail  and  backbone,  and  divide  the  fish  into  suitable  portions  for  the 
guests.     The  upper  part  is  the  best. 

Brook  Trout  and  All  Small  Fish  are  served  whole. 

TURBANS  AND  FILLETS  OF  FISH— These,  and  all  small  slices 
of  fish,  are  served  without  being  divided. 

MEAT  PIES — In  carving  and  serving  meat  pies  begin  by  cut- 
ting the  cover  of  paste  in  triangular  pieces  from  the  center  to  the 
sides.  Cut  only  2  pieces  before  taking  out  and  serving  the  meat. 
Serve  a  piece  of  the  crust,  and  also  a  little  gravy,  with  each  piece  of 
meat. 

PLUM  PUDDING.— This  should  be  cut  in  slices  from  top  to  bot- 
tom,  cutting  always  from  the  center. 

CHEESE. — This  should  be  cut  and  served  in  small  thick  pieces. 


THE  TABLE  AND  ITS  APPOINT= 

MENTS. 

\  I  /he  rule  in  serving  meals  should  be  to  make  them  as  attract- 
)  I  /  ive  as  possible,  and  this  is  equally  true  whether  one  lives 
^X  plainly  or  enjoys  every  luxury  that  can  be  obtained.  The 
two  principal  methods  of  serving  meals  are  known  as  the 
French  and  Russian  (or  a  la  Busse)  methods,  the  latter  being  the 
most  common  method  for  formal  dinners. 

DINNEE. 

This  is  the  most  substantial  meal  of  the  day,  and  should  be 
served  in  a  manner  as  elegant  as  the  resources  of  the  household  will 
permit.  When  there  are  invited  guests  the  number  should  not 
exceed  twelve  people,  so  that  the  conversation  may  be  general.  For 
this  number  the  table  should  be  a  long  one  (the  extension  table  com- 
monly used)  and  drawn  out  to  its  greatest  length;  there  should  be 
ample  room  allowed  for  each  "  cover  "  or  place  for  a  guest.  The  host 
may  sit  at  one  end  of  the  table  and  the  hostess  at  the  other,  or  if 
more  convenient  they  can  sit  opposite  each  other  at  the  centre  of  the 
table.  The  round  table,  about  five  feet  in  diameter,  is  suited  to  a 
square  dining-room,  and  for  small  parties,  as  it  gives  comfortable 
room  for  only  6  or  8  people.  Great  care  should  be  taken  that  the 
covers  are  not  crowded.  The  round  table  is  better  adapted  to  serv 
ing  dinner  a  la  Busse  where  all  the  carving  is  done  at  a  side  table. 
The  object  of  a  dinner  party  or  high  tea,  is  not  to  make  a  display  of 
fine  table=furniture,  or  too  elaborate  cookery,  but  to  promote  agree- 
able social  intercourse  and  conversation  among  friends.  In  England 
the  dinner  hour  is  usually  at  eight  o'clock,  but  in  this  country  seven 
o'clock  is  more  commonly  set  for.  a  ceremonious  supper  or  dinner; 
this  gives  ample  time  at  the  table  and  afterwards  for  a  social  evening 
with  conversation,  amusements,  and  music. 

SETTING  THE  DINNER  TABLE.— There  is  more  art  than 
many  people  imagine  in  setting  a  table  properly.  The  table  cloth 
should  be  laid  evenly,  with  an  equal  amount  falling  over  at  tlie  two 
ends  and  sides.  A  thick  baize  or  canton  flannel  should  be  put  under 
the  table  cloth,  because  if  laid  on  a  bare  table,  the  hoM.  table  linen 

603 


THE  TABLE  605 

will  look  thin  and  slazy.  Nothing  but  the  best  white  table  cloths  or 
uapkins  should  be  used  for  a  dinner  table. 

In  Fig.  1  we  give  an  illustration  showing  how  to  set  a  table  for  a 
company  of  6  where  the  carving  is  done  by  the  host,  which  is  the 
most  common  American  plan.  The  plates  are  distributed  at  each 
place  when  it  is  desired  to  carve  at  the  sideboard,  but  otherwise  the 
same  general  arrangement  prevails.  We  show  2  knives  and  forks  at 
each  plate  in  this  illustration. 

The  edges  of  the  knives  should  always  be  turned  towards  the 
plates.  Sometimes  3  or  more  are  placed  in  this  way,  but  2  is  a  good 
rule,  and  if  more  are  needed  they  can  be  brought  in  as  required. 

The  napkin,  folded  square,  with  a  piece  of  bread  an  inch  thick 
and  3  inches  long  can  be  placed  on  each  plate  or  put  on  instead  of 
the  plate  as  shown  in  this  illustration  Instead  of  the  individual  salt 
cellars  formerly  used,  salt  stands  are  now  placed  at  each  end  of  the 
table,  together  with  the  pepper  stands. 

At  the  right  of  each  plate  is  arranged  a  goblet  of  water,  and  as 
many  wine  glasses  as  are  needed.  Those  who  use  wine  glasses  can 
add  them,  but  we  omit  them  because  this  is  a  temperance  work.  The 
water  goblet  is  filled  just  before  dinner  is  announced. 

Neither  glasses  of  any  kind  nor  plates  should  ever  be  placed 
upside  down. 

In  some  families  water  is  served  from  the  sideboard,  and  in 
others  a  water  carafe  for  every  2  or  3  persons  is  placed  on  the  table. 
At  a  party  a  small  boquet  would  be  at  the  place  of  each  lady,  and  a 
buttondiole  boquet  (called  a  boutonniere)  at  that  of  each  gentleman. 

The  grapes,  fruit,  nuts,  raisins,  candies,  bon-bons,  fancy  cakes, 
etc.,  (whatever  is  intended  for  dessert)  are  placed  in  2  or  4  fancy 
dishes  around  the  centeri^iece — this  illustration  shows  4. 

The  butter  may  be  made  up  in  neat  balls  and  placed,  with  suffi- 
cient individual  butter  plates  to  supply  the  company,  near  the 
hostess,  who  will  serve  it.  It  is  not  passed  until  after  the  soup 
dishes  are  removed.  Some  families  place  the  butter  on  the  sidebcnrd, 
and  have  it  served  by  the  servant.  We  have  omitted  it  from  the 
table  in  this  illustration. 

Of  course  more  or  less  latitude  for  individual  preference  is  al- 
lowed in  these  matters.  In  Fig.  2  we  show  another  plan  of  setting  a 
table  as  arranged  by  the  well  known  firm  of  Marshall  Field  &  Co., 
of  Chicago.  In  this  illustration  it  will  be  noticed  that  there  is  a 
tumbler  but  no  wine  glasses,  because  this  is  a  temperance  work. 
Here  the  dinner  plates  are  on  the  table,  and  the  knives, 
forks  and  spoons  are  all  on  the  right  hand  side  of  the  plate,  while 


606 


THE  TABLE 


Fig.  3. 


the  napkin  is  placed  on  the  left  hand  side,  instead  of  on  the  plate. 
This  is  a  very  appropriate  and  tastefid  arrangement,  and  by  looking 
at  the  two  illustrations  our  readers  can  see  two  approved  methods  of 
setting  the  table  at  the  present  day. 

SERVING  THE  DINNER— The  first  course  will  be  oysters 
(when  they  are  served)  with  which  comes  lemon 
or  vinegar;  5  oysters  for  each  plate  are  enough. 
If  they  are  not  served,  the  oyster  fork  shown  in 
our  illustration  will  of  course  be  omitted  in  set- 
ting the  table.  When  the  oysters  are  eaten  the 
plates  are  removed,  and  soup  is  brought  on  by 
the  servant  who  places  it,  together  with  the  soup 
plates,  before  the  hostess  in  the  manner  shown 
in  the  accompanying  illustration,  Fig.  3.  The 
hostess  then  ladles  out  the  soup,  half  a  ladleful  being  enough  for 
each  person,  and  the  servant  places  it  before  the  guest.  The  ladies 
are  served  first  by  some  hostesses,  and  others  serve  the  guests  in 
rotation. 

After  the  soup  comes  fish,  which  is  carved  by  the  host.  The 
accom^Danying  illustration.  Fig.  4,  shows  the 
way  in  which  the  servant  would  place  the  fish 
platter,  plates,  etc.,  before  the  host  ready  to  be 
carved.  The  servant  passes  each  plate  as  the 
host  hands  it  to  her,  and  the  servant  should 
always  pass  the  plates  in  at  the  left  hand  side 
of  the  guest. 

After  the  fish  comes  the  meat  or  game 
which  is  carved  by  the  host,  and  xDassed  by  the 
servant  in  the  same  way.  The  vegetables  go 
with  the  meat,  although  at  very  formal  dinners 
they  are  often  made  courses  by  tliemselves. 

The  hostess  serves  the  salad.     Then  the 
table  is  brushed  and  the  dessert  brought  in  and  placed  before  the 
hostess  who  serves  the  pastry  or  pudding.     The  usual  order  for  des- 
sert is  pastry  or  pudding,  ices,  fruit,  nuts  and  raisins,  and  bon-bons. 
Coffee  follows  the  fruit. 

The  finger  bowls  come  before  the  fruit,  and  slioukl  be  about  \ 
full  of  water  slightly  warmed  and  perfumed,  and  a  doily  is  laid 
between  the  bowl  and  plate.  The  bowl  and  doily  is  lifted  from  the 
plate  by  the  guest  and  placed  at  his  left.  The  fingers  should  never 
be  wiped  on  the  doily,  the  napkin  being  used  instead. 


THE  TABLE  609 

At  the  close  of  the  meal,  when  the  hostess  sees  that  all  have  fin- 
ished, she  looks  at  the  lady  seated  at  the  right  of  the  host,  and  the 
guests  rise,  and  they  retire  to  the  drawing  room  in  the  order  in 
which  they  are  seated. 

The  above  described  method  of  serving  dinner  is  appropriate 
for  a  family  of  moderate  means  with  one  or  two  servants.  In  cases 
where  more  expensive  establishments  are  maintained,  with  many 
servants,  the  fish  and  meat  would  be  carved  by  the  butler,  and  the 
different  courses  would  all  be  served  from  the  sideboard  by  the  serv- 
ants, instead  of  being  placed  on  the  table  as  described  above  and 
served  by  the  host  and  hostess. 

The  ordinary  family  dinner  usually  spread  by  a  majority  of  the 
people  in  this  country  consists  of  three  courses, — viz.  soup,  meats 
and  vegetables,  and  a  dessert  of  puddings  or  pies, — more  commonly 
of  only  2  courses,  the  soup  being  omitted.  When  the  table  is  sup- 
plied in  this  way,  the  meat  or  meats,  with  2  or  more  vegetables,  are 
placed  before  the  one  who  serves  it  and  the  dessert  near  some  mem- 
ber of  the  family  who  serves  that.  If  there  is  a  maid  she  removes 
the  first  set  of  plates,  knives,  and  forks,  with  the  remainder  of  the 
meat  and  vegetables,  takes  off  the  crumbs  with  a  crumb=knife  and 
pan,  then  places  smaller  plates  with  the  dessert  before  the  one  who 
serves  it,  replenishes  water  glasses,  brings  tea  or  coffee  if  desired, 
and  leaves  the  room. 

THE  BEEAKFAST  TABLE. 

At  the  dinner  table  a  white  table=cloth  and  napkins  should 
always  be  used,  but  at  breakfast  tinted  napery  is  allowable.  A 
plate,  knife,  fork,  spoon,  goblet,  egg=cui3  and  neatly  folded  napkin 
are  set  at  each  place  at  the  table.  Our  illustration,  Fig.  5,  shows  the 
manner  of  arranging  them. 

The  edge  of  the  knife  should  always  be  turned  towards  the  plate, 
and  the  goblet  or  egg=cup  should  never  be  upside  down. 

The  old  individual  salt  cellars  are  no  longer  used,  but  salt  stands 
are  placed  by  the  side  of  the  pepper  stands  at  the  ends  of  the  table. 
The  individual  butter  plates  will  be  placed  beside  the  butter  dish  and 
the  butter  will  be  served  by  the  hostess  or  some  other  member  of  the 
family.  In  many  homes  at  present  the  butter  is  kept  on  the  side- 
board and  served  by  the  servant,  but  on  these  points  each  family 
must  follow  its  own  preference. 

Casters  are  no  longer  used,  being  out  of  date.  The  pepper 
stands  and  vinegar=jug  are  shown  in  our  cut.  The  water  carafes, 
shown  in  this  illustration,  should  be  filled  witli  fresh,  cold  water,  just 


THE  TABLE  611 

before  breakfast  is  announced.     In  some  families  the  water  is  placed 
on  the  sideboard. 

Our  other  illustration,  Fig.  6,  shows  a  simple  and  tasteful  plan 
of  arrangement  as  prepared  for  us  by  Marshall  Field  &  Co.,  of 
Chicago. 

SERVING  BREAKFAST.— For  breakfast  3  courses  are  enough  at 
any  time.  The  first  course  will  consist  of  oatmeal,  cracked-wheat  or 
fruit  The  second  will  consist  of  the  substantial — meat,  potatoes, 
etc  For  convenience,  in  Fig.  5  we  show  the  arrangement  of  the 
dishes  for  the  second  course,  with  the  meat  placed  before  the  host  at 
one  end  of  the  table,  and  the  coffee  service  before  the  hostess  at  the 
other  end.     The  third  and  last  course  will  be  the  cakes  or  waffles. 

THE  LUNCH  OE  TEA  TABLE. 

The  arrangement  of  the  table  for  a  lunch  or  supper  would  be 
very  similar  to  that  for  breakfast.  The  illustrations  and  directions 
already  given  will  be  a  sufficient  guide  for  our  readers  in  arranging 
almost  any  ordinary  table.  For  a  dinner  table  nothing  but  white 
napery  is  suitable,  but  at  a  luncheon  tinted  na^aery  may  be  used  if 
desired,  although  nothing  is  more  suitable  than  white.  At  luncheon 
the  food  may  all  be  placed  on  the  table  at  the  beginning,  if  desired, 
and  those  present  may  help  each  other. 

A  FEW  HINTS. 

In  pretentious  establishments  it  is  not  considered  the  proper 
thing  to  keep  the  table  set  all  the  time,  but  in  modest  houses,  where 
the  dining  room  is  not  used  for  other  purposes,  it  is  a  saving  of 
labor  to  keep  the  table  continually  set.  After  one  meal  is  over,  the 
dishes  washed,  the  table  cleared  of  crumbs  and  the  napery  changed 
if  necessary,  put  everything  in  place  except  the  food,  and  cover  all 
with  calico  or  mosquito  netting  until  the  next  meal  is  served.  This 
prevents  confusion  and  hurry  in  placing  meals  on  the  table  just 
before  time  for  eating.  Calico  makes  the  best  covering,  as  it  protects 
from  dust  as  well  as  flies. 

Where  children  wait  on  the  table,  or  servants  at  a  prolonged 
meal,  they  should  have  their  dinner  before  their  duties  begin;  it  is 
cruel  to  make  children,  who  need  their  food  promptly,  wait  for  it 
until  after  a  long  dinner  is  served  to  their  elders. 

The   custom  of  putting  toothpicks  on  the  table  is  very  vulgar, 
and  families  of  refinement  do  not  allow  it. 
42 


THE  CHAFING  DISH. 

^  I  /HE  chafing  dish  is  very  old,  as  it  was  used  by  the  ancient 
^  I  J  Greeks  and  Romans,  and  we  find  it  also  in  use  during  the 
gjj  (g  middle  ages.  Seneca  says:  "Daintiness  gave  birth  to  this 
^  invention  in  order  that  no  viand  should  be  chilled,  and  that 
everything  should  be  hot  enough  to  i^lease  the  most  pam- 
pered palate.  The  kitchen  follows  the  supper."  It  is  used  at  pres- 
ent principally  for  preparing  dishes  directly  upon  the  table,  for  late 
suppers  and  for  light  housekeeping  that  does  not  admit  of  the  use 
of  even  an  oil  or  gas  stove.  It  is  also  very  convenient  in  the  sick 
room  and  in  travelling. 

The  Chafing  Dish  con- 
sists of  2  dishes  one  inside 
the  other,  on  a  standard  over 
an  alcohol  lamp.  With  but 
one  dish  it  is  called  a  blazer. 
When  2  are  used  the  lower 
one  is  filled  with  water  and 
this  prevents  the  food  from 
burning,  but  it  necessitates 
slow  cooking. 

Chafing  dishes  are  made 
of  various  materials  from  the 
tin  costmg  50  cts.  to  $1.  to  the  solid  silver  costing  $100.  or  more.  The 
cheajDer  ones  costing  from  $2  to  $5.  will  do  as  good  work  as  any  of  the 
more  expensive  ones.  The  best  wicks  are  of  asbestos,  and  the  fuel 
used  is  alcohol,  but  wood  alchohol  answers  just  as  well  as  high  proof 
spirits,  and  costs  much  less.  Do  not  fill  the  lamp  too  full.  Even 
the  largest  dishes  will  not  burn  over  5  or  6  cents  worth  of  high  proof 
spirits  in  an  hour,  so  that  their  use  is  not  as  expensive  as  many  i^eo- 
ple  imagine.  They  give  out  practically  no  heat,  so  that  they  can  be 
used  with  comfort  in  even  the  hottest  weather.  They  can  be  used  to 
advantage  by  the  poor  as  well'as  the  rich. 

The  wicks  should  be  perfectly  trimmed  and  so  regulated  that  all 
the  flame  comes  under  the  dish,  and  none  of  it  spreads  out  and  up 
the  sides. 

In  using  the  hot  water  pan  see  that  it  contains  the  right  quanti- 
ty of  water — have  it  about  |-  inch  deep.  Those  are  the  most  conven- 
ient which  have  a  handle  attached  to  both  pans. 

If  the  chafing  dish  is  placed  on  a  large  metal  tray  there  will  be 
less  danger  of  fire  or  of  staining  the  table.  Eussian  bowls  and  wood- 
en spoons  are  the  best  to  use.  If  a  meal  is  prepared  without  any  oth- 
er fire,  two  chafing  dishes  will  be  an  advantage,  as  part  of  the  food 
can  then  be  kept  hot  while  the  balance  is  being  cooked. 


A  CHAFING  DISH. 


THE  CHAFING  DISH 


613 


It  is  better  to  do  the  preliminary  work  of  preparing  the  foods  in 
the  kitchen  rather  than  in  the  presence  of  guests.  As  soon  as  the 
flame  is  put  out  put  the  water=pan,  containing  hot  water,  under  the 
blazer;  it  will  keep  it  warm. 

MEATS. 

CREAMED  COLD  MEAT— Make  the  "  White  Sauce  "  given 
hereafter;,  then  stir  in  2  cups  cold  meat,  cut  small,  and  cook  till  it  is 
thoroughly  heated  through.  Season  and  serve.  Cold  roast  beef, 
mutton,  veal,  lamb,  turkey,  chicken  or  duck  is  nice  this  way.  If 
desired  for  a  change  1  or  2  cups  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  into  dice, 
can  be  heated  with  the  meat. 

Curry  stew. — By  adding  a  teaspoon  of  curry  powder  to  the  above 
a  curry  stew  can  be  made. 

DEVILED  MEAT.— Make  the  "  Deviled  Sauce  "  given  hereafter, 
and  put  in  cold  roast  meat  cut  into  pieces;  cook  till  thoroughly 
heated  through  and  serve.  Season  more  highly  if  desired.  Cold 
roast  beef,  mutton,  veal,  lamb,  turkey,  chicken  or  duck  are  nice  thus 
served. 

Lobster  can  be  cooked  the  same  way. 

MEAT  RE= WARMED — Into  the  blazer  put  4  teaspoons^  butter, 
2  teaspoons  of  fruit  jelly  (currant,  grape,  or  api^le)  and  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon.  Cook  and  stir  till  these  are  blended  to  form  a  smooth 
sauce;  then  put  in  slices  of  cold  roast  beef,  mutton  or  lamb,  add  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  cook  till  they  are  thoroughly  warmed  through, 
turning  the  pieces  frequently.  Use  a  low  flame,  so  as  not  to  scorch 
the  jelly. 

Cold  game  orfoiol  may  be  re= warmed  in  the  same  way. 

BROILED  BEEFSTEAK.— Heat  the  blazer  very  hot,  rub  it  with 
butter,  and  put  in  the  steak;  rather  thin  pieces  are  best;  turn  it  often, 
and  if  it  sticks  to  the  pan  or  scorches,  put  in  more  butter.  If  the 
blazer  is  very  hot  it  will  broil  nearly  as  well  as  on  a  gridiron. 

Lamb  chops  (choose 
small,  thin  ones)  or  veal 
cutlets  can  be  broiled 
the  same  way. 

Venison  steak  can 
be  broiled  the  same 
way.  When  nearly 
done  a  little  jelly  can 
bo  melted  and  poured 
over  it  or  the  jelly 
can  be  served  with 
it. 

BEEFSTEAK  AND 
ONIONS In  the  bla- 
zer   melt    1    tablespoon 


1.  STAND  AND  LAMP. 

2.  HOT  WATEB  PAN. 


BLAZES  OB  CHAFING  DZBH. 
WOODEN  BPOON./ 


614  THE  CHAFING  DISH 

butter;  when  hot  put  in  |-  lb.  beefsteak  cut  into  slices  about  ^  inch 
thick;  cook  about  5  minutes,  turning  so  as  to  cook  both  sides;  then 
put  in  3  teaspoons  chopped  onions;  cook  about  5  minutes,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve.  A  little  chopped  parsley  added  last 
will  be  an  improvement. 

DRIED  BEEF. — In  the  blazer  put  2  teaspoons  butter  and  1  cup 
milk;  when  hot,  put  in  ^  pint  dried  beef,  chopped  fine,  and  cook  till 
well  heated— about  6  minutes;  then  slowly  stir  in  2  beaten  eggs,  and 
when  thick,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  on  fried  bread  or 
toast.     Use  both  pans  with  hot  water  in  the  lower  one. 

CALF'S  BRAINS,  CREAMED.— Prepare,  parboil  and  cut  the 
calf's  brains  into  small  pieces  as  directed  on  page  136.  Make  the 
"White  Sauce"  given  hereafter,  put  in  the  prepared  brains,  cook  3 
to  5  minutes,  and  serve. 

CALF'S  LIVER  AND  BACON — Into  the  blazer  put  thin  slices 
of  bacon  and  cook  till  the  fat  drains  out  and  then  push  it  one  side. 
Have  thin  slices  of  liver  ready,  sprinkle  them  with  pepper,  roll  in 
flour,  and  fry  them  till  brown  and  tender  in  the  pork  fat,  turning  fre- 
quently.    Serve  a  slice  of  bacon  with  each  piece  of  liver  if  desired. 

CHICKEN  AND  OYSTERS.— Melt  2  tablespoons  butter,  and  add 
2  tablespoons  of  flour,  ^  teaspoon  salt  and  ^  saltspoon  of  pepper;  pour 
on  slowly  2  cups  cream  and  then  add  2  cups  cold  boiled  chicken,  cut 
into  dice,  and  2  cups  oysters  washed  and  drained;  cook  until  the  oys- 
ters are  plump.  Sprinkle  with  celery  which  has  been  chopped  fine, 
and  serve  on  toast. 

BROILED  SWEETBREADS — Prepare  the  sweetbreads  as  di- 
rected on  page  139.  When  the  chafing  dish  is  very  hot  rub  it  with 
butter;  put  in  the  prepared  sweetbreads  and  broil  them  a  delicate 
brown;  be  careful  not  to  let  them  scorch;  add  more  butter  if  they 
stick  to  the  pan;  when  done  add  2  teaspoons  butter  and  when  it  melts 
put  out  the  lamp.  With  each  portion  of  the  sweetbread  serve  a  little 
of  the  butter. 

CREAMED  SWEETBREADS.— Make  the  "  White  Sauce  "  giv- 
en hereafter;  then  put  in  the  sweetbreads,  prepared  as  directed  on 
page  139;  cook  about  5  or  6  minutes,  and  serve. 

TRIPE  WITH  ONIONS — In  the  blazer  melt  2  tablespoons  but- 
ter; when  hot  put  in  1  tablespoon  sliced  onions  and  cook  till  brown; 
then  put  in  2  cups  tripe  cut  into  dice,  add  1  cup  milk  or  cream,  and 
cook  till  heated  through.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve 
plain  or  on  toast. 

SAUCES. 

DEVILED  SAUCE — Into  the  blazer  put  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, 1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  2  onions, 
chopped  fine,  and  1  teaspoon  mixed  mustard;  stir  constantly,  and 


THE  CHAFING  DISH  615 

cook  about  2  minutes  after  the  butter  melts;  then  add  2  teaspoons 
Worcestershire  sauce,  and  a  little  salt  and  cayenne.* 

EQQ  SAUCE. — Use  both  pans,  with  hot  water  in  the  lower  one. 
In  the  blazer  melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  add  3  heaping  teaspoons  of 
flour  and  a  little  water;  stir  constantly  as  it  cooks,  and  as  it  thickens, 
thin  with  milk  or  cream  (about -|  cup)  until  of  the  right  consisten- 
cy; when  done  let  it  boil  a  minute,  and  add  3  hard  boiled  eggs  cut 
into  dice.     Be  careful  not  to  burn  the  sauce. 

SAUCE  PIQUANTE — Into  the  blazer  put  2  teaspoons  butter,  2 
teaspoons  tarragon  vinegar,  2  teaspoons  of  either  cucumber,  walnut,  or 
tomato  catsup,  ^  a  small  onion  finely  minced,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  a  pinch 
of  cayenne;  let  all  boil  together  3  or  4  minutes.  Use  both  pans,  with 
hot  water  in  the  lower  one. 

WHITE  SAUCE — In  the  blazer  melt  2  tablespoons  butter;  add 
1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  stir  constantly  to  keep  it  free  from  lumps; 
when  these  bubble  put  in  1  cup  milk  and  stir  till  it  thickens.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper.  If  desired,  for  additional  flavor,  add  lemon 
juice  or  onion.  Use  both  pans,  having  boiling  water  in  the  lower 
one. 

FISH  AND  SHELL^FISH. 

CREAMED  FISH — Take  1  can  salmon,  turn  it  on  a  platter,  take 
out  all  pieces  of  skin  and  bone  and  pick  it  well  to  pieces;  drain,  and 
let  it  stand  2  or  3  hours  to  aerate.  Make  the  "  White  Sauce"  previ- 
ously given;  add  the  salmon  and  stir  constantly  until  well  heated 
through ;  then  add  a  little  lemon  juice  and  serve. 

In  the  same  way  any  other  kind  of  fish  can  be  cooked. 

CREAMED  SALT  COD.— Shred  it  well,  put  it  in  a  colander  and 
pour  on  boiling  water  2  or  3  times.  Prepare  the  "  White  Sauce  " 
previously  given;  when  hot  put  in  1  pint  of  the  fish;  when  ,it  is  well 
heated  add  1  cup  cream;  let  it  get  hot  and  serve. 

FISH  WITH  SAUCE  PIQUANTE.— Prepare  the  "Sauce  Pi- 
quante"  as  previously  directed;  when  hot,  put  in  2  cups  cold  flaked 
fish,  and  cook  it  till  thoroughly  heated  through,  turning  it  often  so 
that  the  sauce  may  permeate  it  well. 

HALIBUT  STEAKS — Have  the  steaks  3  or  4  inches  square  and 
about  I  inch  thick.  Sprinkle  on  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  beaten  egg 
and  roll  in  flour.  Put  4  teaspoons  butter  in  the  blazer  and  when 
smoking  hot  put  in  the  fish  and  fry  it  nicely.  Garnish  with  slices  of 
lemon,  or  sprinkle  on  lemon  juice. 

SARDINES.— Free  them  from  oil  by  letting  them  drain  on 
paper,  and  scrape  off  the  skin  carefully.  Choose  those  which  are 
boneless.  In  the  chafing  dish  melt  2  teaspoons  butter;  when  hot  put 
in  the  sardines  and  cook'^them  carefully,  turning  them  once  to  cook 


*NoTE.— For  chafing  dish  cookery,  paprica  (which  is  a  kind  of  red  pepper) 
can  be  used  in  place  of  cayenne,  and  many  prefer  it. 


61G  THE  CHAFING  DISH 

both  sides.  When  done,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  on  a 
little  lemon  juice,  and  serve  on  toast. 

BROOK  TROUT — Dress  the  trout  and  dip  them  in  beaten  egg 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  and  roll  them  in  flour;  put  4  teaspoons 
butter  in  the  blazer  and  when  it  is  smoking  hot  put  in  the  trout  and 
cook  till  done.  Time  about  5  or  6  minutes.  If  desired,  a  little  pars- 
ley can  be  fried  with  them.  They  can  be  fried  the  same  way  in  olive 
oil  if  preferred. 

BOILED  WHITE  FISH — Into  the  blazer  put  a  slice  of  white 
fish  nearly  large  enough  to  cover  the  bottom ;  pour  on  enough  hot 
water  to  cover  it,  add  1  tablespoon  vinegar  and  |  teaspoon  salt,  and 
boil  till  done.  Time,  about  10  minutes.  When  served,  pour  on 
melted  butter  and  sprinkle  on  chopped  parsley. 

BROILED  OYSTERS.— Rub  butter  on  the  bottom  of  the  chafing 
dish  and  when  hot  put  in  large,  plump  oysters;  when  one  side  is  done 
turn  and  cook  the  other.  Watch  carefully  or  they  will  scorch,  as 
they  quickly  brown.  Add  more  butter  if  they  stick  to  the  bottom. 
Serve  at  once  when  done. 

DEVILED  OYSTERS.— In  the  blazer  mix  1  teaspoon  Worces- 
tershire  sauce,  2  teaspoons  melted  butter,  \  teaspoon  each  of  curry 
powder  and  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne;  as  it  heats  put  in  1  cup 
oyster  liquor,  and  when  it  boils  put  in  the  oysters;  cook  them  till 
plump,  turning  them  2  or  3  times,  and  serve  at  once. 

FRIED  OYSTERS — Drain  large  oysters,  sprinkle  on  pepper  and 
salt,  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs.  Into  the  blazer  put  3  tablespoons 
butter,  and  when  hot  put  in  the  oysters;  when  one  side  is  done  turn 
and  cook  the  other;  lift  out  with  a  fork.  Serve  slices  of  lemon  with 
them,  or  squeeze  on  a  little  lemon  juice. 

OYSTERS  IN  THEIR  SHELLS— Put  oysters  in  their  shells  into 
the  chafing  dish  (first  cleaning  the  shells  thoroughly)  and  steam 
them  till  the  shells  will  open.  Time,  ^  to  -|  hour.  Then  take  ofp  the 
upper  shell,  add  pepper,  salt  and  butter  to  season,  and  serve  at  once 
in  the  lower  shell.  Squeeze  on  lemon  juice  or  serve  with  slices  of 
lemon. 

PANNED  OYSTERS — In  the  blazer  melt  4  teaspoons  of  butter; 
when  hot,  put  in  some  good  sized  oysters;  when  the  edges  curl 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  very  little  lemon  juice.  Serve  on 
toast. 

STEWED  OYSTERS — In  the  blazer  melt  2  teaspoons    butter; 

then  stir  in  2  teaspoons  flour  and  add  2  cups  oyster  liquor;  when  it 
boils  put  in  the  oysters  and  cook  till  the  edges  curl.  Season  with 
pepper,  salt,  a  dash  of  nutmeg  and  lemon  juice,  and  serve. 

CREAMED  CLAMS.— Into  the  blazer  put  2  teaspoons  butter 
and  the  same  of  flour;  add  2  cups  cream  and  stir  and  cook  till  it 
makes  a  smooth  sauce;  then  put  in  2  cups  soft  shell  clams  and  cook 
till  plump;  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  cook  1  or  2  min- 


THE  CHAFING  DISH  617 

utes.    Add  a  little  lemon  juice  and  serve.     Use  both  pans,  with  hot 
water  in  the  lower  one. 

HARD  SHELL  CRABS.— Into  the  blazer  put  1  tablespoon 
butter;  when  smoking  hot  put  in  the  crabs  and  fry  them  nicely. 
Add  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  serve. 

OYSTER  CRABS— In  the  blazer  melt  2  teaspoons  butter;  when 
hot  put  in  the  crabs.  Time  to  cook,  about  2  or  3  minutes.  Add 
pepper,  salt  and  a  little  lemon  juice  and  serve. 

DEVILED  SOFT  SHELL  CRABS— Take  2  teaspoons  butter,  1 
teaspoon  each  made  mustard  and  curry  powder,  1  saltspoon  of  salt 
and  ^  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce;  rub  it  to  a  smooth  paste  in  the 
butter,  and  spread  each  crab  with  it.  In  the  blazer  melt  a  little 
butter;  when  smoking  hot  put  in  the  prepared  crabs  and  fry  them 
nicely. 

Lobster  meat,  (it  should  be  in  large  pieces),  can  be  prepared  the 
same  way. 

SOFT  SHELL  CRABS — Remove  the  feathery  substance  under 
the  sides  of  the  shell,  rinse  them  in  cold  water,  drain,  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  dredge  with  flour.  In  the  blazer  melt  5  or  6 
teaspoons  of  butter;  when  smoking  hot  put  in  the  crabs  and  fry 
brown  on  both  sides.  Time  to  cook  about  9  minutes.  Select  small 
crabs  and  have  them  fresh. 

CREAMED  SCALLOPS — Parboil  2  cups  of  scallops  about  6 
minutes  in  boiling  water,  and  drain.  In  the  blazer  melt  4  teaspoons 
butter;  stir  in  2  teaspoons  flour  and  2  cups  milk  and  cook  till 
smooth ;  then  put  in  the  scallops.  Time  to  cook,  about  4  to  6  min- 
utes.    Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  serve. 

FRIED  SCALLOPS — Parboil  the  scallops  about  5  minutes  in 
boiling  water;  drain,  dry,  sprinkle  on  salt  and  pepper  and  roll  them 
in  cracker  crumbs  or  flour.  Melt  2  tablespoons  butter  in  the  blazer; 
when  hot,  put  in  the  scallops  and  fry  them  a  delicate  brown. 

CREAMED  SHRIMPS.— Make  the  "White  Sauce"  previously 
given;  put  in  the  shrimps  and  simmer  until  they  are  heated  through, 
and  serve. 

STEWED  SHRIMPS Into  the  blazer  put  2  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter; when  bubbling  hot  put  in  the  shrimps;  as  soon  as  they  are  thor- 
oughly heated  put  in  1  cup  boiling  water  and  cook  about  a  minute; 
then  add  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  lemon  juice  and  serve.  The 
canned  shrimps  can  be  used  nearly  as  well  as  the  fresh,  but  rinse 
them  in  cold  water  before  they  are  cooked. 

FRIED  SMELTS.— Into  the  blazer,  over  the  hot  water  pan,  put 
2  tablespoons  butter;  when  hot  put  in  a  little  lemon  juice  and  then 
the  smelts;  cook  on  one  side,  then  turn  and  cook  the  other.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve.  A  little  chopped  parsley  added  will 
be  an  improvement. 


618  THE  CHAFING  DISH 

CREAMED  LOBSTER.— Into  the  blazer,  (be  sure  and  have  the 
hot  water  dish  under  it),  put  2  teaspoons  butter,  2  heaping  teaspoons 
flour,  1  cup  milk  and  1  cup  cream;  cook  till  it  makes  a  smooth  sauce; 
then  put  in  2  cups  lobster,  *1  teaspoon  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne; 
stir  until  the  lobster  is  thoroughly  heated  through ;  then  put  in  an- 
other cup  of  cream  and  leave  just  long  enough  to  heat  it  well.  Add 
a  little  lemon  juice  and  serve. 

DEVILED  LOBSTER.— Into  the  blazer  put  2  large  teaspoons 
butter,  1  saltspoon  each  of  salt  and  dry  mustard,  and  a  pinch  of  cay- 
enne; when  hot  put  in  the  meat  of  2  small  or  1  large  lobster  and  stir 
briskly  till  it  is  thoroughly  heated;  then  add  a  little  lemon  juice  and 
serve. 

FRIED  LOBSTER — In  the  blazer  melt  2  teaspoons  butter; 
when  smoking  hot  put  in  2  cups  fresh  lobster  meat  cut  into  small 
pieces;  stir  briskly  and  it  will  be  done  as  soon  as  it  is  thoroughly 
hot.  Add  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  A  can 
of  lobster  can  be  used  instead,  but  have  the  can  opened  and  the  lob- 
ster turned  out  and  allowed  to  aerate  2  or  3  hours  before  being  used, 
and  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces. 

FROGS'  LEGS. — Skin  and  put  them  for  3  minutes  in  boiling 
salted  water  containing  a  little  vinegar;  lift  out,  pour  on  cold  water, 
dry  them,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  roll  in  flour.  Put  4  teaspoons 
butter  in  the  chafing  dish  and  when  smoking  hot  i^ut  in  the  frogs' 
legs  and  fry  them  a  delicate  brown.  Sprinkle  on  chopped  parsley, 
if  convenient,  and  serve.  Or  the  white  sauce  previously  given  can 
be  made  in  the  lower  pan,  and  the  fried  frogs'  legs  served  in  it. 

EGGS. 

BOILED  EGGS. — Have  the  water  boiling,  put  in  the  eggs  and 
leave  1  minute;  put  out  the  lamp,  leave  on  the  cover,  and  leave  the 
eggs  in  5  or  6  minutes. 

EGG  AND  ANCHOVY  TOAST Take     5     eggs,     beat     barely 

enough  to  mingle  the  yolks  and  whites,  add  ^  cup  milk  or  cream,  i 
teaspoon  salt  and  ^  saltspoon  pepper.  Put  1  heaping  tablespoon  or 
butter  into  the  blazer,  and  when  melted  add  the  egg  mixture  and 
stir  until  the  egg  is  firm.  Spread  slices  of  toast  with  anchovy  past, 
arrange  them  on  a  platter,  and  pour  over  the  egg. 

CREAMED  EGGS.- Heat  together  in  the  blazer  1  cup  cream 
and  1  cup  veal  or  chicken  stock;  add  5  eggs  beaten  together,  stir  un- 
til thick,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve. 

CUPPED  EGGS — Have  boiling  water  in  the  water  pan,  set  2  or 
3  cups  into  it  and  when  they  are  hot,  break  a  couj^le  of  eggs  into 
each  one;  cook  3  to  5  minutes  with  the  cover  on,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  serve.     This  makes  a  delicate  dish  for  invalids  also, 

CURRIED  EGGS.— Make  a  sauce  with  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 
the  same  of  flour,  |  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  curry  powder,  1  salt- 
spoon pepper  and  2  cups  milk;  cook  till  smooth,  stirring  constantly. 


THE  CHAFING  DISH  619 

Pour  it  over  7  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  into  eighths,  lengthwise,  and 
serve. 

FRIED  EQQS — Melt  in  the  blazer  4  teaspoons  butter;  when 
hot,  break  in  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time;  turn  them  over  and  cook  the 
other  side  as  soon  as  they  set;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
serve. 

OMELETS — Beat  together  4  eggs,  add  1  scant  cup  milk,  |  tea- 
spoon salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper;  melt  4  teaspoons  butter  in  the 
blazer,  turn  in  the  egg  mixture  and  cook  till  set.  To  prevent  its 
sticking  slip  a  knife  under  the  edge  occasionally.  When  done, 
double  it  together  carefully  and  serve.  In  cooking  omelets  it  is 
best  to  use  both  pans,  having  boiling  water  in  the  lower  one. 

Any  kind  of  omelet  can  be  made  in  this  way  by  adding,  before 
folding  it,  cheese,  oysters,  tomatoes,  jelly,  orange,  mushrooms,  or 
whatever  one  has  on  hand  or  desires  to  use. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS — In  the  blazer  melt  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter; turn  in  ^  doz.  eggs,  beaten  barely  enough  to  mix  the  yolks  and 
whites;  stir  constantly  till  thick  and  smooth;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  serve. 

EGGS  ON  TOAST.— In  the  blazer  melt  1  tablespoon  butter;  add 
4  beaten  eggs,  4  teaspoons  cream,  |  teaspoon  salt,  and  a  little  black 
and  red  pepper;  stir  till  smooth,  pour  it  on  toast  or  crackers  and 
serve. 

VEGETABLES. 

ASPARAGUS. — (1)  Boil  stocks  of  asparagus  in  slightly  salted 
water  till  tender.  Time,  about  |  hour.  Drain,  season,  and  serve 
either  with  melted  butter  or  the  "  White  Sauce  "  i^reviously  given. 
(2)  If  canned  asparagus  is  used  wash  it  in  cold  water  and  drain; 
cook  it  in  slightly  salted  water  till  heated  through,  drain,  and  serve 
the  same  way. 

CANNED  LIMA  BEANS.— Wash  1  can  lima  beans  in  cold 
water  and  drain;  melt  2  tablespoons  butter  in  the  blazer,  put  in  the 
beans,  cook  till  thoroughly  heated  through,  season  to  taste  and 
serve. 

String  Beans  can  be  cooked  the  same  way,  but  they  take  longer 
to  cook  than  lima  beans  and  are  not  so  delicate 

CANNED  CORN.— In  the  blazer  melt  2  tablespoons  butter;  put 
in  1  can  sweet  corn,  cook  till  thoroughly  heated,  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt  and  serve. 

SUCCOTASH. — In  the  blazer  melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter. 
Wash  1  can  lima  beans  in  cold  water,  drain,  and  jDut  tliem  into 
the  blazer;  add  1  can  of  corn  and  cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  they 
are  thoroughly  heated  through.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
serve. 

FRIED  ONIONS.— In  the  blazer  melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter; 
when  hot,  put  in  onions  which  have  been  peeled  and  cut  into  strips 


620  THE  CHAFING  DISH 

and  cook  till  tender.     Time,  about  10  to  15  minutes.      Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  serve.     Be  careful  that  they  do  not  burn. 

BRAISED  MUSHROOMS.— In  the  blazer  melt  2  tablespoons 
butter.  Have  mushrooms  ready  which  have  been  washed  and  peeled, 
and  when  the  butter  is  hot  put  them  in,  top  down,  and  cook.  Time, 
about  ^  hour,  Add  pepper  and  salt  to  season,  and  serve  plain  or  on 
toast,  pouring  over  them  the  juice  they  were  cooked  in.  Sprinkling 
on  a  little  chopped  parsley  will  be  an  improvement. 

CANNED  GREEN  PEAS — In  the  chafing  dish  melt  4  teaspoons 
butter;  turn  in  1  can  of  peas  and  stir  continually  until  they  are 
thoroughly  heated.  Season  to  taste  and  serve.  It  will  toughen  them 
if  cooked  too  long. 

FRESH  GREEN  PEAS — Have  |  pint  boiling  water  in  the  chaf- 
ing dish,  and  turn  in  2  cups  fresh  young  peas  and  boil  till  tender; 
then  stir  in  two  teaspoons  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
serve.  A  little  sugar  will  be  an  improvement,  and  cream  if  you 
have  it. 

BOILED  POTATOES — Put  into  the  chafing  dish  thinly  sliced 
potatoes,  add  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them,  add  a  little  salt, 
and  boil  till  done.  Time,  about  20  minutes.  Then  drain,  season 
with  butter  and  salt  and  serve.  Watch  them  while  cooking  and  do 
not  let  them  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 

For  Creamed  Potatoes  (1)  boil  as  above,  then  drain  and  add 
milk  or  cream,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  add  seasoning  to  taste  and  serve. 

Or  (2)  in  the  blazer  melt  4  teaspoons  butter  and  add  1  cup  milk; 
when  warm  put  in  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  into  dice,  and  cook  till 
heated  through;  then  stir  in  2  teaspoons  flour  mixed  with  a  little 
cold  milk;  as  soon  as  it  thickens  add  pepper  and  salt  to  season,  and 
serve.     Use  both  pans,  with  hot  water  in  the  lower  one. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES— In  the  blazer  melt  4  teaspoons  but- 
ter or  dripping;  when  hot  fry  in  it  a  small  onion,  sliced  thin;  then  add 
cold  boiled  potatoes,  also  sliced,  and  fry  them.  Leave  out  the  onions 
if  they  are  not  liked.  Sprinkle  on  finely  minced  parsley  before 
serving,  if  convenient. 

FRIED  POTATOES.— In  the  chafing  dish  melt  4  teaspoons 
butter  or  chicken  fat;  when  bubbling  hot  put  in  thinly  sliced  new 
potatoes,  cook  to  a  light  brown,  and  serve. 

FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES.— In  the  blazer  melt  2  tablespoons 
butter;  when  hot  put  in  thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes;  turn 
often  and  cook  till  thoroughly  heated  through.  Season  to  taste  and 
serve. 

DEVILED  TOMATOES— Cream  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  1  tea- 
spoon powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  1  saltspoon  salt,  and  \ 
saltspoon  pepper.  Mash  the  yolk  of  1  hard  boiled  egg,  add  1  raw 
egg  beaten  slightly,  and  1|  tablespoons  hot  vinegar;  cook  until  it 
thickens.  Remove  the  skins  from  3  tomatoes,  cut  them  into  thick 
slices,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour  and  fry  in  but- 


THE  CHAFING  DISH  621 

ter.    Pour  the  sauce  over  the  tomatoes  and  serve.      Firm  canned 
tomatoes  can  be  used  if  more  convenient. 

FRIED  TOMATOES.— Excellent  with  cold  meat.  Into  the  chaf- 
ing dish  put  4  teaspoons  butter;  when  melted  put  in  thick  slices  of 
raw  tomatoes  and  cook  till  tender,  turning  frequently;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  serve. 

CREAMED  TOMATOES.— Fry  and  season  6  raw  tomatoes  as 
above  directed;  when  tender,  stir  in  1  cup  rich  milk  or  cream  in 
which  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  flour  have  been  stirred;  cook  until 
it  thickens,  stirring  constantly.     Serve  at  once. 

CHEESE  AND  PANCAKES. 
CHEESE  FONDU — In  the  blazer  melt  2  teaspoons  butter;  then 
add  ^  pint  milk,  1  pint  grated  cheese,  |  pint  fresh  bread  crumbs,  | 
teasxDoon  of  salt,  a  little  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  soda;  cook  till  smooth. 
Time,  about  5  or  6  minutes.  Then  stir  in  slowly  2  beaten  eggs, 
cook  2  or  3  minutes  and  serve.  Use  both  pans,  with  hot  water  in 
the  lower  one.  Have  everything  ready  before  beginning  to  cook 
them. 

CHEESE  WITH  EGGS— Beat  5  eggs  light,  add  5  heaping  tea- 
spoons of  very  dry,  grated  cheese,  ^  teaspoon  salt  and  a  pinch  of  cay- 
enne. Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  the  t3lazer,  add  the  egg  mixture 
and  cook  till  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  it  on  toast  or  crack- 
ers and  serve. 

ENGLISH  MONKEY — Soak  1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  in  1  cup 
milk  \  hour.  Into  the  chafing  dish  put  1  heaping  teaspoon  butter, 
add  ^  cuj)  soft  cream  cheese  cut  fine,  and  stir  until  melted.  Add  the 
crumbs,  with  1  beaten  egg,  |  teaspoon  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne; 
cook  3  minutes,  pour  it  on  to  toasted  crackers  and  serve. 

WELSH  RAREBIT — Into  the  blazer  put  1  tablespoon  butter 
and  when  melted  add  ^  lb.  cheese  cut  fine,  1  saltspoon  salt  and  \ 
saltspoon  of  cayenne.  When  creamy,  add  gradually  -^  cup  cream 
and  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs;  pour  it  over  thin  crackers  or  wafers 
and  serve. 

PANCAKES — Take  3  beaten  eggs,  -|  cup  flour,  \  pint  milk,  1 
teaspoon  sugar  and  -|  teaspoon  salt;  thoroughly  mix  all  till  smooth. 
In  the  blazer  melt  1  teaspoon  butter  and  when  hot  turn  in  a  little  of 
the  batter;  when  done  on  one  side  turn  and  brown  the  other.  Serve 
sprinkled  with  sugar  or  jelly. 


MEDICAL  HINTS. 

IMPLE  remedies  for  accidents  and  common  diseases  are  most 
suitable  for  use  in  ordinary  families,  and  simple  things  are 
(V)^  often  the  best.  The  following  list  of  simple  and  effectual 
remedies  which  are  well  adapted  for  home  use  will  be  found 
of  great  value  in  any  family,  and  will  save  our  readers  many 
doctor's  bills  as  v/ell  as  much  pain  and  suffering  often,  and  possibly 
may  even  save  a  life. 

TO  TAKE  A  PILL. — Drop  it  under  the  tongue  and  take  a  swal- 
low of  water  at  once.  Disagreeable  pills  can  be  taken  in  this  way 
without  tasting  them.  A  well  corked  bottle  is  better  than  a  box  to 
keep  pills  in. 

Powders  can  be  best  taken  mixed  in  jam,  syrup,  honey  or  milk. 

TO  REMOVE  THE  TASTE  OF  NAUSEOUS  MEDICINES  FROM 
THE  MOUTH. — Chew  a  piece  of  bread  and  then  spit  it  out. 

ACIDITY  OF  THE  STOMACH — Lime=water  taken  after  each 
meal  in  doses  of  1  to  2  oz.  is  excellent.  Or  (2)  take  one  teaspoon  of 
calcined  magnesia  in  a  wineglass  of  water.  Or  (3)  eating  a  small 
quantity  of  dry  rice  will  often  correct  it.  (4)  Relief  will  generally 
result  from  taking  10  grains  of  burnt  carbonate  of  magnesia,  1  grain 
of  powdered  rhubarb  and  1  grain  of  ginger  in  a  little  warm  water  2 
or  3  times  a  day. 

ASTHMA — Dissolve  in  water  all  the  saltpetre  it  will  hold;  dip 
blotting  paper  in  this  solution,  and  roll  strips  of  it  in  the  form  of 
cones  or  cigars.  When  dry,  burn  them,  letting  the  patient  inhale  the 
fumes.  It  often  affords  quick  relief.  Or  (2)  smoking  the  leaves  of 
thorn-apple  or  jimpson  weed,  at  the  commencement  of  the  attack,  acts 
like  magic  with  many  people. 

BITES  OF  SNAKES.— Check  the  circulation  of  the  blood  by  ty- 
ing a  handkerchief,  rope  or  something  else,  around  the  limb  between 
the  wound  and  the  heart.  At  the  same  time  suck  the  wound  as  hard 
as  possible  to  draw  out  the  poison,  spitting  out  the  blood  at  once. 
Also  give  whiskey,  brandy  or  other  liquor,  a  gill  at  a  time,  until  in- 
toxication occurs.  It  is  surprising  how  much  liquor  will  be  needed, 
but  persevere  until  intoxication  results.  This  is  one  of  the  few 
things  that  whiskey  is  good  for. 

BLISTERS — Keep  them  from  breaking  if  possible.  To  punc- 
ture them  and  draw  off  the  fluid  inside  is  a  mistake.  Bathe  them  in 
warm  water,  and  cover  with  court  plaster,  or  if  very  severe  apply 
salve  and  then  bind  on  a  soft  rag. 

BOILS. — Bind  on  a  slice  of  ripe  tomato;  change  frequently  and 
burn  the  old  slices.     It  affords  speedy  relief,  is  cool,  soothing  and 

t)22 


MEDICAL  iiii\ib  623 

hastens  the  cure.     (2)    The  skin  peeled  off  of  a  boiled  egg,  moist- 
ened  and  applied,  will  draw  off  the  matter  in  a  few  hours. 

If  the  tips  of  the  fingers  are  wet  with  spirits  of  camphor  or 
tincture  of  arnica  and  gently  rubbed  on  the  surface  every  8  or  4 
hours,  followed  later  by  ohve  oil,  it  will  prevent  a  boil  from  coming 
to  a  head. 

BLACK  EYE. — Apply  at  once  whiskey,  brandy  or  spirits  of 
wine.  Never  apply  cold  water,  except  a  little  at  first,  but  apply  a 
cloth  wrung  out  of  hot  water — as  hot  as  it  can  be  borne. 

BRUISES — Treat  first  same  as  directed  above  for  "Black  Eye." 
Later  rub  with  hamamelis,  or  apply  lard  or  butter. 

BUNIONS — These    are   caused  by  ilhfitting  shoes.      To  cur 
lem,  first  get  shoes  which  fit  properly.     If  they  are  much   irril.ilc.; 
pply  v/arm  fomentations  and  bathe  with  arnica.     If,  on  their  ihr'- 
appearance,  the  shoes  are  attended  to  and  oxide  of  pulphur  oint- 
ment is  applied  to  the  bunion  each  night,  they  are  easily   checked 
and  prevented  from  becoming  serious. 

BURNS  AND  SCALDS.— For  slight  burns  apply  a  paste  made  by 
mixing  common  baking  soda  with  a  little  water;  then  dust  on  dry  so- 
da and  bind  on  a  light  bandage.  It  affords  almost  immediate  relief 
and  stops  the  pain.     Borax  may  be  used  instead,  if  more  convenient. 

Burns  by  alkalies,  like  caustic  potash,  strong  ammonia,  soda, 
etc.,  should  first  have  a  dilute  acid  apxolied,  like  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice.  The  acid  at  once  neutralizes  the  alkali;  then  treat  the  spot 
like  any  other  burn. 

Burns  from  acids,  like  muriatic  acid,  oil  of  vitriol,  etc., 
should  have  an  alkali,  like  ammonia,  soda  or  lime=water,  applied  at 
once  to  neutralize  the  acid.  If  these  are  not  available,  pouring  on 
water  dilutes  the  acid;  or  put  on  moist  earth,  which  contains  suf- 
ficient alkali  to  dilute  the  acid.     Aftervv^ards  treat  like  other  burns. 

CANKERED  SORE  MOUTH  AND  THROAT.— Pulverize  burnt 
alum  and  add  equal  amounts  of  sulphur  and  sugar;  keep  in  a  v;idc= 
mouthed  bottle.  Put  a  little  on  the  sore  spots  and  let  it  dissolve 
slowly.     For  the  throat  put  it  on  the  back  of  the  tongue. 

CATARRH  OR  COLD — A  teaspoon  of  warm  honey  taken  every 
15  to  80  minutes  affords  great  relief  to  colds  and  catarrh.  A  little 
can  be  kept  in  every  house,  and  some  taken  at  once  on  taking  cold. 
(2)  If,  at  the  start,  camphor  is  inhaled,  or  a  little  put  on  a  lumiD  of 
sugar  and  eaten,  a  cold  can  be  broken  up.  (8)  Inhaling  aromatic 
spirits  of  ammonia  will  also  often  cure  a  catarrhal  cold. 

CHAPS.— The  best  preventive  is  perfect  dryness,  especially  be. 
fore  going  into  the  open  air.  To  produce  dryness,  after  washing  and 
wiping,  rub  on  cornmeal  or  chalk;  then  warm.  An  excellent  applica- 
tion for  chaps  is  glycerine  1  oz.;  chalk  2  oz.;  milk  5  oz.;  mix  and  rub 
on.     Vaseline  or  petroleum  jelly  is  also  good. 

CHILBLAINS. — These  are  usually  caused  by  abrupt  transitions 
from  cold  to  heat.     Do  not  warm  very  cold  feet  at  the  tire  at  once, 


624  MEDICAL  HINTS 

but  bathe  them  first  in  cold  water.  When  chilblains  appear  rub 
them  with  a  lotion  made  of  1  oz.  of  iodine  in  3  oz.  rectified  spirits  of 
wine ;  apply  with  a  brush  not  more  than  once  a  day.  Apply  tincture 
of  myrrh  in  water  to  broken  or  ulcerated  chilblains.  Protect  in- 
flamed chilblains  from  the  friction  of  boots  and  shoes. 

CHOKING — (1)  A  marble  or  similar  article  in  a  child's  throat 
may  be  dislodged  by  turning  him  heels  upwards  and  shaking  him. 

(2)  Simple  cases  of  choking  are  often  relieved  by  merely  striking  on 
the  back  between  the  shoulders.  (3)  A  hair-pin  quickly  straight- 
ened and  bent  at  one  end  in  the  shape  of  a  hook  will  sometimes  serve 
to  extract  food,  etc.  (4)  For  a  fish=bone  or  other  substance  in  the 
throat  at  once  insert  a  finger  and  press  upon  the  root  of  the  tongue 
so  as  to  induce  vomiting.  If  this  fails  let  the  patient  swallow  a  piece 
of  soft  bread.  Send  for  a  physician  at  once.  Repeatedly  sucking 
lemons  will  help  to  dissolve  a  bone. 

CHOLERA  INFANTUM — A  teaspoon  of  milk  and  lime-water 
may  be  given  every  20  or  30  minutes.  It  should  be  given  cold. 
Lime-water  may  be  given  alone  if  the  stomach  will  not  tolerate  the 
milk.     In  grave  cases  a  few  drops  of  brandy  may  be  added. 

CHOLERA  MORBUS.— Give  pulverized  chalk  in  tablespoon 
dos(  s.  Apply  to  the  stomach  flannel  cloths  wrung  out  of  hot  water 
and  sprinkled  with  turpentine,  changing  them  as  fast  as  they  cool; 
or  apply  tincture  of  cayenne  or  other  stimulating  application.  The 
remedy  given  elsewhere  for  "Diarrhea"  (which  see)  is  also  excel- 
lent. 

COLD  SORES — These  may  often  be  prevented  from  developing 
by  applying  spirits  of  camphor  on  their  first  appearance.  Cold 
cream  (see  page  885)  is  also  a  good  application  for  them. 

COLIC — A  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  finely  pulverized  black  pep- 
per in  a  glass  of  cold  water  will  almost  always  give  relief.  Then  give 
a  dose  of  rhubarb.  Also  applying  hot  cloths  to  the  abdomen,  and 
giving  warm  water  injections  are  useful. 

CORNS. — These  are  caused  by  the  friction  of  ill-fitting  shoes. 
Hard  corns  may  be  killed  by  binding  on  at  night  a  piece  of  lemon, 
half  a  cranberry,  or  some  cracker  crumbs  soaked  in  strong  vinegar; 
leave  on  all  night  and  pare  off  the  corn  in  the  morning.  Apply  2  or 
3  times  if  needed. 

For  soft  corns  trim  off  the  thicker  skin  with  scissors,  apply  car- 
bolized  vaseline,  and  wear  a  little  cotton  batting  between  the  toes, 
changing  it  often. 

COUGH  MIXTURE — (1)  Melt  together  equal  amounts  of  hoar- 
hound  and  rock  candy,  add  an  equal  amount  of  glycerine,  and  flavor 
it  with  lemon  extract.  Take  one  teaspoonf ul  at  a  time,  as  often  as  de- 
sired. Or  (2)  take  juice  of  2  lemons,  1  oz.  honey,  1  bz.  cod  liver  oil; 
mix  thoroughly  and  after  every  fit  of  coughing  take  1  teaspoon.     Or 

(3)  take  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  vinegar,  ^  cup  honey,  1  cup  boiling 
water;  boil  |  hour;  then  add  5  cents  worth  of  paregoric. 


MEDICAL  HINTS  625 

CRAMP — Wind  a  band,  like  a  cord  or  garter,  abont  tbe  affected 
part,  and  tie  it  tightly  by  giving  a  sharp  pull  on  the  ends;  it  will  hurt 
a  little,  but  the  cramp  will  disappear.  Active  friction  with  the  hand 
is  also  often  effective. 

CROUP — (1)  Cut  an  onion  in  two  and  put  a  little  sugar  on  one 
half;  it  will  dissolve  almost  immediately.  Then  scoop  up  a  little  of 
the  sweetened  juice  in  a  teaspoon  and  give  it  to  the  child.  It  will 
give  almost  instant  relief.  Or  (2)  produce  vomiting  by  giving  one 
teaspoon  of  alum  sweetened  with  two  teaspoons  of  sugar,  syrup  or 
molasses.  It  gives  immediate  relief.  Then  saturate  a  cloth  with 
turpentine  and  apply  it  to  the  throat  and  chest,  covering  it  with  a 
dry  cloth. 

CUTS  AND  WOUNDS. — The  pain  from  common  wounds  may  be 
quite  speedily  relieved  by  burning  woolen  cloth  on  a  shovel  of  live 
coals  and  holding  the  injured  part  in  the  smoke  for  15  or  20  minutes. 
The  smoke  from  common  brown  sugar  burned  on  coals  in  the  same 
way  is  also  good.  These  simple  remedies  often  act  like  a  charm,  re- 
lieving the  pain  and  hastening  the  cure.  Then  apply,  carboli  zed  vas- 
eline, or  wrap  it  ux3  in  a  cloth  wet  with  dilute  carbolic  acid. 

DIARRHEA  AND  DYSENTERY— Take  i  oz.  tincture  of  rhu- 
barb; ^  oz.  sx^irits  of  camphor;  ^  oz.  of  laudanum;  -|  oz.  pepiDermint; 
^  oz.  tincture  of  cayenne  pepper;  mix.  Dose  for  an  adult  15  to  30 
drops  in  a  little  water  after  each  passage,  according  to  age  and  the 
violence  of  the  attack.  In  case  of  active  dysentery  reiDeat  the  dose 
every  15  or  20  minutes  until  relief  is  obtained.  Dose  for  a  child  5 
to  15  drops,  according  to  its  age.  Probably  the  best  and  surest  rem- 
edy.    (This  is  sometimes  called  "The  Sun  Cholera  Mixture.") 

DIPHTHERIA — Dissolve  a  tablespoon  of  flower  of  sulphur  in  a 
tumbler  of  water  and  gargle  the  throat  with  it  frequently,  swallow- 
ing a  little  each  time.  Snuff  the  mixture  up  the  nose  also  if  the 
patches  extend  there.  If  the  patient  cannot  gargle,  blow  some  flower 
of  sulphur  through  a  clay  pix)e  into  the  throat.  Slake  a  lump  of 
lime  in  the  room  and  get  the  patient  to  inhale  the  fumes;  or  burn 
pitch  on  hot  coals  on  a  shovel  and  inhale  tlie  smoke.  It  dissolves 
the  membrane.  Give  nourishing  food  like  beef  tea  thickened  with  a 
little  rice,  eggs  beaten  up  in  milk,  sago  or  arrowroot  mixed  with  port 
or  sherry,  etc.  It  is  not  a  disease  to  trifle  with,  so  get  the  best  medi- 
cal advice  attainable. 

DIPHTHERITIC  SORE  THROAT,  CURE  FOR.— Take  a  ripe 
pine-apple,  squeeze  out  the  juice  and  give  it  to  the  patient.  It  af- 
fords much  relief. 

EARACHE. — Pouring  a  few  drops  of  laudanum  into  the  ear 
(warm  it  by  putting  the  bottle  containing  it  into  a  vessel  of  hot 
water)  and  then  covering  it  with  cotton  usually  gives  immediate 
relief. 

INSECT  IN  THE  EAR.— Pour  in  a  little  glycerine  or  sweet  or 
olive  oil,  wliichever  is  most  convenient.  This  kills  the  insect,  and  it 
is  easily  removed  later  by  a  physician. 


626  MEDICAL  HINTS 

EMETICS — To  take  a  teaspoonful  to  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
alum  is  a  speedy  emetic.  Or  from  1  to  2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt  taken 
in  a  cup  of  hot  water  will  usually  cause  vomitina:.  If  a  stronger 
emetic  is  needed,  taking  from  1  scruple  to  -|  a  draclim  of  sulphate  of 
zinc  in  1  pint  of  warm  water  will  rarely  fail, 

FOR  SORE  AND  INFLAMED  EYES — (1)  Take  2  grains  sul- 
phate  of  zinc;  2  grains  of  hydrastis;  1  oz.  rosewater;  mix.  Put  2  or  3 
drops  of  this  in  the  inflamed  eye  every  few  hours.  Dilute  it  with  a 
little  rain  water  if  too  strong.  Dilute  it  also  for  children.  (2)  lor 
weak  eyes  take  8  grains  sulphate  of  zinc;  10  drops  tincture  of  opium; 
2  oz.  water.     Mix  and  apply  3  or  4  times  a  day. 

For  inflamed  eyelids  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  to  a  froth,  with 
2  tablespoons  of  rosewater,  is  a  good  lotion. 

FOREIGN  SUBSTANCES  IN  THE  EYE.— (1)  A  spec  of  dirt 
will  often  be  washed  out  by  the  flow  of  tears  which  follov/s:  or  put 
the  eye  into  cold  water  and  wink  and  roll  the  eyeball  until  the  spec 
is  washed  out.  (2)  Lift  out  the  upper  eyelid  with  the  fingers,  draw 
it  down  over  the  lower  lid  and  release  it.  Any  substance  adhering 
to  the  ujjper  lid  will  thus  be  rubbed  ofp  by  the  lower  one.  (3)  Put 
1  or  2  grains  of  flaxseed  into  the  eye  and  leave  them  several  hours,  or 
over  night.  It  can  be  done  without  harm  or  pain.  They  will  form 
a  glutinous  substance  about  any  foreign  body  and  it  will  then  wash 
out.     This  plan  is  simple  and  usually  effective. 

FAINTING — The  simplest  and  most  effective  treatment  is  to  at 
once  lower  the  head  and  lift  the  body  so  that  the  head  hangs  down; 
the  blood  then  rushes  to  the  head  and  consciousness  returns. 

FATIGUE. — Ladies  who  are  tired  from  the  labors  of  their  house- 
work will  find  a  marked  relief  if  they  will  lie  down  for  5  or  10 
minutes  and  spread  over  the  face  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  hot  water.  It 
will  brighten  the  eyes  and  smooth  out  the  tired  lines. 

FELON — Mix  common  rock  salt  and  turpentine  in  equal  parts, 
spread  it  on  a  cloth  and  bind  it  on  the  felon,  renewing  it  as  fast  as 
it  dries.  In  about  24  hours  it  will  abort  the  felon.  Or  (2)  make  a 
salve  by  mixing  good  soft  soap  and  cornmeal  or  flaxseed  meal;  put 
this  on  cloth  and  wrap  it  around  the  finger;  renew  it  every  10  or  12 
hours.  If  applied  in  time  it  will  abort  the  felon;  if  not,  it  will  bring 
it  to  a  small  head  which  is  easily  pricked. 

FROSTBITES — To  prevent  too  sudden  reaction  the  person 
should  be  kept  away  from  the  heat.  Rub  the  affected  part  vigorous- 
ly with  snow,  and  afterwards  with  cold  water,  until  reaction  occurs, 
and  in  a  room  without  a  fire.  Later,  lard,  sweet  oil,  or  oil  and  lime- 
water  can  be  applied.  Putting  the  parts  affected  in  salt  and  water 
(cold)  for  25  or  80  minutes  is  good  for  slight  frostbites.  If  any 
Bores  follow  treat  them  like  burns. 

THE  GRIPPE — It  is  said  that  asafetida  taken  4  times  a  day, 
and  16  grains  at  a  dose,  will  check  the  grippe  at  once.  It  can  be 
bought  at  drug  stores  in  capsules,  and  is  perfectly  harmless.  It  is  as 
much  a  specific  for  the_grippe  as  quinine  is  for  ague. 


MEDICAL  HINTS  627 

GUMBOIL — Apply  a  roasted  fig  to  the  inflamed  gum,  as  hot  as 
it  can  be  endured.     Lance  it  as  soon  as  matter  is  evident. 

HAY  FEVER.— Take  of  carbolic  acid  2|-  drachms;  ammonia 
water  3  drachms;  distilled  water  5  drachms;  alcohol  7-|  drachms;  put 
all  into  a  wide=mouthed  4  oz.  vial;  keep  tightly  closed  when  not  in 
use.  To  use  it  inhale  the  fumes  through  the  nostrils.  It  often  works 
like  a  charm. 

HEARTBURN — Take  5  grains  of  aromatic  powder  and  12 
grains  of  bismuth;  mix,  and  give  3  times  a  day.  It  will  almost  al- 
ways give  relief.  Alkalies  if  given  habitually  will  weaken  the 
stomach.  Those  troubled  with  heartburn  should  drink  sparingly  at 
meals,  avoid  the  use  of  fatty  foods,  pastry  and  the  too  exclusive  use 
of  vegetables.     Everything  rich  and  indigestible  should  be  avoided. 

HYSTERIA. — Loosen  the  clothes  and  admit  an  abundance  of 
fresh  air;  then  hold  the  mouth  and  nose  closed  and  so  stop  the  breath- 
ing for  a  short  time.  On  releasing  the  hold  a  long  breath  is  at  once 
drawn  which  usually  results  in  relaxing  the  spasm  and  ending  the  fit. 

FRUIT  LAXATSVE— Chop  fine  ^  lb.  of  the  best  prunes,  and  ^ 
lb.  figs;  then  add  ^  oz.  pure  senna  and  molasses  enough  to  make  a 
thick  paste;  simmer  on  the  stove  about  20  minutes.  Keep  it  in  a 
cool  place.  A  piece  of  this  paste  about  the  size  of  a  hickory^nut 
makes  an  excellent  laxative.     Repeat  in  about  4  hours  if  necessary. 

HEADACHE — For  nervous  headaches  and  neuralgia  the  fol- 
lowing is  an  excellent  remedy.  Take  a  wide=mouthed  glass  stop- 
pered bottle,  half  fill  it  with  soft  sponge,  and  on  this  pour  3  drachms 
of  a  solution  of  bisulphide  of  carbon.  Keep  tightly  closed.  To  use 
it  remove  the  stopper  and  press  the  mouth  of  the  bottle  over  the  seat 
of  the  pain  for  5  minutes.  Press  tightly  against  the  skin  so  that 
none  of  the  vapor  can  escape.  After  1  or  2  minutes  tingling  is  felt 
which  in  3  or  4  minutes  becomes  rather  severe,  but  it  subsides  at 
once  when  the  bottle  is  removed.  Any  redness  of  the  skin  soon  dis- 
appears. 

HICCOUGH — Moisten  either  granulated  or  brown  sugar  with 
vinegar  and  eat  it.  For  infants  give  but  little  at  a  time;  or  a  little 
milk  and  water  is  usually  sufiicient  for  them.     Speedy  relief  follows. 

HOARSENESS — (1)  Beat  up  2  fresh  eggs,  thicken  them  with 
sugar,  add  a  little  lemon  juice  or  vinegar,  and  eat  a  little  frequently; 
it  will  soon  give  relief .  Or  (2)  infuse  a  little  finely  scraped  horse^ 
radish  in  a  little  water  for  2  hours  in  a  close  vessel,  and  then  atld 
double  its  weight  of  sugar;  take  a  tablespoonful  at  a  dose  and  it  will 
give  speedy  relief. 

HIVES. — Castor  oil  applied  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers  to  the 
pustules  will  give  speedy  relief  to  the  itching.  So  will  baking  soda 
dissolved  in  warm  soft  water.  Then  take  1  cup  molasses;  1  tablespoon 
()i- :.:il;)linr;  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar;  mix.  Take  1  teaspoon  each 
I:.  .1  .i:  -•  l-.'foro  breakfast  until  relieved. 


628  MEDICAL  HINTS 

ITCH. — Dissolve  ^  oz.  of  glycerine  and  1  drachm  of  carbolic 
acid  in  8  oz.  of  pure  water.     Apply  a  few  times  and  it  will  cure  it. 

LINIMENTS — (1)  Take  2  oz.  olive  oil  and  1  oz.  of  solution  of 
ammonia;  mix.  Useful  for  sore  throats,  bruises  and  sprains.  (2) 
Thoroughly  beat  1  egg,  then  add  1  teacup  each  of  turpentine  and 
good  cider  vinegar,  put  them  in  a  bottle  and  shake  very  thor- 
oughly. Excellent  for  rheumatism,  etc.  A  little  put  on  a  flannel, 
laid  on  where  the  pain  is  worst  and  covered  with  oiled  silk  will  give 
almost  instant  relief. 

MEASLES. — An  ordinary  attack  requires  no  other  treatment 
than  to  keep  the  bowels  open,  use  cooling  drinks  like  lemonade,  bar- 
ley water,  etc.,  the  daily  use  of  the  warm  bath  and  confinement  in  a 
moderately  warm  {not  exceedingly  hot),  well  ventilated  room.  After 
the  disease  has  subsided  the  patient  should  have  easily  digested 
food,  be  kept  warmly  clad,  and  not  allowed  to  go  out  of  doors  too 
soon.  If  symptoms  of  bronchitis,  pneumonia,  etc.,  appear,  a  physi- 
cian should  be  summoned  at  once. 

SORE  MOUTH.— One  drachm  of  sulphite  of  soda  to  1  oz.  of 
water  used  as  a  gargle  will  soon  check  ulcerated  or  inflamed  mouth. 

NURSINQ  SORE  MOUTH.— Gargle  the  mouth  3  or  4  times  a 
day  with  a  solution  of  borax,  or  a  iceak  solution  of  carbolic  acid. 
Also  take  a  tonic  like  chloride  of  iron  and  quinine. 

NETTLE  RASH.— This  comes  usually  from  indigestible  food. 
In  an  acute  attack  take  an  emetic  to  get  rid  of  the  otfending  sub- 
stance. This  should  be  followed  by  a  laxative  (see  "  Fruit  Laxa- 
tive " )  and  a  light  diet,  and  the  article  which  caused  it  should  be 
avoided  thereafter.  A  few  grains  of  rhubarb,  or  of  rhubarb  and 
magnesia  mixed,  taken  daily  just  before  breakfast  and  dinner  has 
often  cured  chronic  cases  of  long  standing. 

NEURALGIA. — The  following  remedy  has  often  proved  success- 
ful :  Take  25  grains  of  bromide  of  potassium ;  1  draclim  of  syrup  of 
orange;  10  drops  tincture  of  nux  vomica;  1^  oz.  water;  mix  and  take 
3  times  a  day.  Take  also  a  i)ill  containing  2  grains  of  quinine  with 
each  draught.     See  also  "  Headache." 

NOSE,  BLEEDING  FROM.— (1)  Put  the  feet  in  water  as  hot  as 
can  be  borne.  This  will  usually  stop  it.  Or  (2)  roll  up  a  piece  of 
linen,  saturate  it  with  hamamelis  or  alum  and  stuff  it  up  the  nostril 
(3)  Chew  something,  shutting  the  jaws  tightly  together.  (4)  Apply 
cold  water  or  ice  to  the  back  part  of  the  neck,  the  forehead  and  root 
of  the  tongue. — Do  not  bend  the  head  over  the  basin  as  that  favors 
the  bleeding,  but  receive  the  blood  on  a  wet  sponge  or  cloth. 

FOREIGN  BODIES  IN  THE  NOSE.— Have  the  child  draw  a 
deep  breath,  then  ]3lace  one  hand  over  his  mouth  and  a  finger  against 
the  empty  nostril,  and  strike  a  sharp  blow  on  his  back,  thus  suddenly 
forcing  the  air  from  the  lungs  through  his  nose.  It  will  usually 
force  the  substance  out. 


MEDICAL  HINTS  629 

POISONS.— The  first  effort  should  usually  be  to  rid  the  system 
of  the  poison,  if  possible,  and  then  try  to  overcome  its  effects.  Send 
for  a  physician  at  once,  and  in  the  meantime  treat  as  follows: 

For  acids,  like  carbolic  acid,  oxcdic  acid,  salts  of  sorrel,  salt  of 
lemon,  acetic  acid,  etc.,  or  for  creosote,  give  an  emetic  (see  "Emetics," 
page  879,)  followed  by  chalk  or  whitmg  in  water,  or  lime  water,  and 
white  of  egg. 

For  alkalies,  like  ammonia,  lime,  pearlash,  potash,  smelling 
salts,  etc.,  give  water  containing  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  then  salad 
or  sweet  oil,  milk,  white  of  egg,  gruel. 

For  opium,  laudanum,  paregoric,  morphine,  and  other  jjrepara- 
tions  of  opium,  or  henbane,  or  belladonna,  give  an  emetic,  (see 
"  Emetics,"  page  879),  then  strong  coffee;  keep  av/ake  with  active 
motion. 

For  arsenic,  parts  green,  rough  on  rats,  etc.,  phosphorus, 
matches,  scdtpetre,  turpentine,  or  furniture  polish,  give  an  emetic, 
(see  "  Emetics,"  page  879),  then  white  of  egg,  flour  and  water,  or 
milk. 

POISON  DOGWOOD — When  the  skin  is  poisoned  by  this,  apply 
a  weak  solution  of  sugar  of  lead,  or  dilute  citric  acid. 

POSSON  IVY — When  the  skin  is  poisoned  with  ivy,  apply  a 
weak  solution  of  carbolic  acid,  or  sugar  of  lead.  Dilute  citric  acid  or 
sweet  spirits  of  nitre  applied  freely  are  also  good.  Water  as  hot  as 
it  can  be  borne,  applied  freely  as  often  as  the  itching  returns,  will 
afford  relief. 

PRICKLY  HEAT, — This  occurs  in  hot  countries,  and  in  extreme- 
ly hot  weather.  The  treatment  is  to  open  the  bowels,  eat  temper- 
ately, dress  lightly,  and  keep  quiet  during  the  heat.  To  relieve  the 
itching,  especially  in  children,  bathe  the  skin  with  warm  water  con- 
taining .a  little  common  baking  soda. 

PROUD  FLESH. — Apply  pulverized  loaf  sugar,  or  pulverized 
burnt  alum. 

RETCHING. — Take  |  wineglass  of  pure  lemon  juice,  just  enough 
salt  of  tartar  to  destroy  the  acidity,  and  take  1  teaspoon  frequently 
until  the  retching  stops. 

RINGWORM.— Apply  1  part  carbolic  acid  in  2  parts  water;  leave 
on  30  or  40  seconds,  and  then  wash  it  off  with  tepid  water.  This  will 
cure  it. 

SALT  RHEUM.— An  ointment  of  15  to  30  grains  of  chryso- 
phanic  acid  to  each  ounce  of  cosmoline  will  often  cure  even  obstinate 
cases.     Apply  it  after  a  warm  bath 

SALVE.— Take  etiual  quantities  of  beeswax,  fresh  pure  butter, 
white  diachylon,  elder^flower  water,  sweet  oil.  and  palo  brandy;  nu>lt 
all  together  in  an  earthen  jar.  and  keep  stirring  until  nearly  cold. 
Keep  it  in  a  glass  jar.    Invaluable  for  sores  of  any  kind. 


630  MEDICAL  HINTS 

SEA  SICKNESS. — Of  all  the  drugs  proposed  at  various  times 
for  this  distressing  complaint,  bromide  of  sodium  is  the  best.  Take 
10  grain  doses  3  times  a  day  for  several  days  before  going  on  to  the 
water,  and  it  will  generally  prevent  an  attack. 

SLEEPLESSNESS.— (1)  Take  a  sharp  walk  for  about  20  min- 
utes before  retiring;  or  (2)  just  before  retiring,  sponge  the  surface 
of  the  body  with  very  hot  water;  or  (3)  take  a  cold  bath  followed  by 
vigorous  friction;  or  (4)  treat  the  feet  and  legs  in  either  of  these 
ways.  These  methods  draw  the  blood  to  the  extremities  and  away 
from  the  head,  and  so  induce  sleep.  On  waking  up  in  the  night,  rise 
and  smartly  rub  the  body  and  extremities  with  the  hands  or  a  brush 
or  towel,  to  thoroughly  start  the  circulation,  and  afterwards  one  will 
often  soon  fall  asleep.  These  plans  are  much  better  than  using 
drugs. 

SNORING. — This  is  caused  by  sleeping  with  the  mouth  open.  If 
the  nose  is  stopped  up  at  night  clear  it  out  well,  using  snuff  if  neces- 
sary. A  bandage  around  the  lower  jaw  and  over  the  head  will  serve 
to  keep  the  mouth  closed  and  render  snoring  impossible,  Nurses  by 
holding  the  lips  of  children  together  for  a  few  minutes  when  they 
are  falling  asleep  can  prevent  their  forming  the  habit. 

SPRAINS — First  ax^ply  water,  as  hot  as  can  be  borne,  for  15  or 
20  minutes;  then  apply  hot  poultices  of  bran  or  oatmeal  and  vine- 
gar. Give  the  injured  part  perfect  rest,  and  keep  it  in  an  elevated 
position.  Rub  it  night  and  morning  with  kerosene  and  vaseline 
mixed,  or  with  the  second  liniment  given  among  our  Liniments 
(which  see).  Later  on,  if  not  quite  right,  apply  a  douche  of  cold 
salt  water,  continuing  it  till  the  part  aches  a  little,  and  then  rub  it 
briskly  with  a  towel  to  cause  reaction.     This  will  help  it  very  much. 

SORE  THROAT — Take  1  oz,  each  of  borax,  sugar,  and  chlorate 
of  potash;  dissolve  them  in  1  quart  of  water,  and  use  it  as  a  gargle. 
Excellent.  Also,  before  going  to  bed,  fold  a  towel  in  2  or  3  folds, 
wet  one  end  in  water,  lay  it  on  the  throat  and  wrap  the  balance  of 
the  towel  around  the  neck  and  pin  it  securely.  Leave  it  on  all  night. 
In  the  morning  sponge  off  the  neck  with  cold  water  and  wipe  it 
dry.     A  harmless  and  excellent  remedy. 

SUBSTANCES  SWALLOWED  BY  MISTAKE.— Make  the  pa- 
tient eat  three  good  sized  slices  of  bread,  and  swallow  4  tablespoons 
of  flour  and  water  made  into  a  fairly  thick  mass;  then  give  an  emetic 
and  the  swallowed  article  will  come  up  entangled*  in  the  tenaceous 
vomit.     (For  an  emetic  see  "  Emetics.") 

SUFFOCATION — Remove  the  patient  at  once  to  the  fresh  air, 
lay  him  on  his  back  and  loosen  the  clothing  about  his  neck  and 
chest.  Dash  cold  water  on  the  face  and  chest.  Keep  up  the  warmth 
of  the  body  and  apply  mustard  plasters  over  the  heart  and  around 
the  ankles.  If  these  means  fail,  try  artificial  respiration  as  soon  as 
possible. 


TOILET  HINTS. 

FACE  POWDER — Finely  powdered  rice  is  as  simple,  harmless 
and  good  as  any  powder  to  use.  Calcined  magnesia  is  harmless, 
and  so  are  chalk  and  cascarrilla  except  for  their  mechanical  action 
in  stopping  the  pores  of  the  skin.  Any  powder  when  used  should 
be  washed  off  at  night  before  retiring.  Never  apply  any  substance 
to  the  face  containing  any  metallic  powders  or  earthy  substances. 
The  great  majority  of  the  cosmetics  so  widely  advertised  are  posi- 
tively injurious  and  we  unhesitatingly  advise  against  their  use. 

BLACK  HEADS — These  are  not  animals,  but  merely  the  greasy 
matter  secreted  by  the  glands  of  the  skin.  The  best  treatment  is  to 
soften  them  by  applying  a  little  glycerine  and  then  squeeze  them 
out  by  pressing  any  flat^  blunt  instrument  against  the  skin,  and  mov- 
ing it  along  slowly.  Any  redness  thus  caused  may  be  overcome  by 
applying  equal  parts  of  glycerine  and  prepared  chalk.  Bathing  the 
parts  affected  with  ammonia  is  a  good  preventive. 

COLD  CREAM. — The  best  formula  for  cold  cream  is  as  follows: 
— Take  of  pure  white  wax  1  oz.;  spermaceti  2  oz.;  almond  oil  \  pint. 
Mix  these  together  in  a  glazed  earthenware  dish  over  a  gcrdle  heat, 
stirring,  while  melting,  with  a  silver  or  glass  spoon.  When  melted 
add  3  oz.  glycerine  and  10  drops  attar  of  roses.  Then  strain  through 
muslin,  and,  as  it  cools,  stir  it  to  a  snowy  whiteness.  The  secret  of 
making  fine  cold  cream  is  to  stir  it  and  beat  it  well  all  the  time  it  is 
cooling. 

FRECKLES — When  caused  by  the  sun,  touch  them  with  nitre 
(saltpetre)  moistened  with  water  and  applied  with  the  finger;  apply 
three  times  a  day  and  they  will  soon  disappear.  Or  ( 2 )  apply  5  or 
6  times  a  day  a  strong  solution  of  borax  and  rosewater.  Or  (8)  apply 
a  lotion  made  of  equal  parts  of  glycerine  and  lactic  acid. 

MOTH  PATCHES,  MASK,  MORPHFW  AND  HEPATIC  SPOTS. 

— Mix  8  oz.  rosewater  and  80  grains  of  chlorate  of  potash;  wash  the 
face  with  it  2  or  8  times  a  day.  Avoid  ri(  h  and  greasy  food,  take 
outdoor  exercise,  and  keep  the  bowels  regular. 

MOLES For   small  moles  apply  the  acid  nitrate  of  mercury. 

For  large  ones  electricity  is  best,  but  consult  a  physician. 

PROFUSE  AND  OFFENSIVE  PERSPIRATION.— Wash  the 
troublesome  parts  under  the  arms,  the  feet,  etc.,  with  one  part  boracic 
acid  in  20  parts  of  water.  Also  dust  on  the  underclothes,  over  the 
affected  parts,  a  preparation  of  boracic  acid  mixed  with  starch, 

PIMPLES.^These  usually  indicate  that  the  system  is  out  of 
order,  and  should  rather  be  treated  by  proper  diet  and  remedies  than 

631 


632  TOILET  HINTS 

by  local  applications.  If  an  application  is  desired,  take  1  oz.  sperm- 
aceti ointment,  2  drachms  glycerine  and  2  oz.  bicarbonate  of  soda; 
mix  and  apply, 

SUNBURN. — Apply  frequently  a  solution  of  equal  parts  of  lime 
juice  and  olive  oil.  Rubbing  the  hands,  face,  etc.,  with  almond  oil, 
cold  cream  or  vaseline  before  being  exposed  to  the  sun  or  wind  will 
largely  prevent  their  unpleasant  effect. 

TAN.— This  may  be  removed  by  applying  glycerine  and  lemon 
juice  mixed  together.  Or  (2)  take  magnesia  wet  with  clear  water  and 
worked  to  a  thick  paste  and  rub  it  on. 

WARTS — Rubbing  warts  with  a  fresh  slice  of  Irish  potato,  or 
with  fresh  lemon  juice  will  often  cure  them  in  a  short  time.  Or 
(2)  apply  strong  carbolic  acid  carefully  with  a  brush  3  or  4  times  a 
day  and  they  will  disappear  in  1  or  2  weeks.  (3)  A  dose  of  sulphate 
of  magnesia  taken  daily  will  cure  warts  in  a  short  time  often. 

DANDRUFF. — Wash  the  head  once  a  day  with  1  oz.  borax  and 
1  oz.  glycerine  in  1  pint  of  warm  soft  water. 

TO  PROMOTE  GROWTH  OF  HAIR — Take  the  yolk  of  1  egg, 
1  pint  of  rain  water  and  1  oz.  rosemary  spirit.  Mix  thoroughly,  use 
warm  and  rub  well  into  the  scalp  with  the  fingers.  Apply  twice  a 
week.  It  softens  the  scalp,  removes  dandruff,  and  makes  the  hair 
smooth  and  glossy. 

HAIR  FALLING  OUT.— Wet  the  head  occasionally  with  salt  and 
water  and  it  will  check  it.  Or  (2)  dissolve  15  grains  of  bicarbonate 
of  soda  in  1  oz.  water;  rub  it  into  the  scalp  daily,  and  persevere  with 
it.  (3)  Rub  pure  grease  in  thoroughly  every  night  or  two.  This 
often  causes  a  new  growth  of  hair,  and  it  cures  dandruff. 

BANDOLENE. — Dissolve  1  drachm  of  gum  arable  and  2  oz. 
borax  in  1  quart  hot  water;  then  add  3  tablespoons  of  tincture  of 
camphor.     Apply  on  retiring  and  do  the  hair  up  in  curl  papers. 

OFFENSIVE  BREATH — For  immediate,  temporary  relief,  gar- 
gle the  mouth  and  throat  with  1  part  bromo-chloralum  in  8  or  10 
parts  water.  The  principal  causes  are  bad  teeth,  a  disordered  stomach 
and  catarrh,  and  permanent  relief  must  come  by  reaching  the  cause 
and  curing  it. 

The  odor  of  onions  is  removed  by  taking  a  cup  of  strong  coffee. 
Or  eat  parsley  with  vinegar. 

The  odor  of  tobacco  may  be  relieved  by  taking  1  teaspoon  tinc- 
ture of  myrrh,  ^  teaspoon  spirits  of  camphor,  1  pint  of  hot  water  and 
a  little  borax;  mix,  and  use  2  tablespoons  of  this  in  \  tumbler  of 
water  to  wash  the  teeth. 

A  TOOTH  POWDER — Take  4  oz.  powdered  charcoal;  2  oz. 
powdered  cuttle-fish  bone;  1  oz.  myrrh;  1  oz.  orris  root;  mix,  and 
use  as  needed. 


GLOSSARY  OF  TERMS  USED 
IN  COOKERY. 


Appetisants  (  A-pay-tee-zan  ). —  Small 
savories  served  before  or  between  the 
courses  of  a  dinner. 

Aspic. — A  savory  jelly,  used  mostly  for 
garnishing. 

Assiette  (ass-yett). — Small  entrees  not 
exceeding  what  one  plate  will  hold. 
At  dessert,  fruits,  cheese,  etc.,  if 
served  on  a  plate,  are  termed  ass- 
iettes. 

Attelets  or  Hatelets  (hay-t-lay). — Small 
skewers.  When  of  silver  or  plated 
they  are  used  in  dishing  up  food. 

Au  Bleu, —  (o-bleu). — Fish  dressed  in 
such  a  manner  as  to  have  a  bluish 
appearance. 

Au  Gras  (o-gra). — Dressed  with  meat 
stock, 

Au  Gratin  (o-gratin). — Prepared  with 
bread  crumbs. 

Au  Jus  (o-joo). — In  the  natural  juice 
or  gravy. 

Au  Naturel  (o-na-tu-rel).  —  Plain, 
simple  cookery;  or  anything  served 
raw,  like  oysters. 

Bain  -  Marie  (ban  ma-ree). — A  metal 
pan  which  has  a  loose  bottom  to 
hold  hot  water,  into  which  small 
vessels  can  be  set  to  keep  their  con- 
tents warm. 

Barde(bar-d). — A  thin  slice  of  fat  bacon^ 
used,  when  preferred,  instead  of  lard- 
ing, to  cover  meat,  poultry,  etc. 

Barder  (bar-day). — To  bard. 

Barole  (bar-oil). — A  thin  slice  of  fat 
bacon  placed  on  steaks,  fowls,  etc., 
instead  of  larding. 

Baron  of  Meat. — Two  sirloins,  or  hind 
quarters,  not  cut  apart. 


Baste. — To  sprinkle  on  flour  and  salt, 
or  pour  on  butter  or  fat — as  on  meat 
when  roasting. 

Batterie  de  Cuisine  (ba-ter-ee-de-kwe- 
zi-n). — A  complete  set  of  cooking 
apparatus. 

Bechamel  (bay-sha-mell).  —  A  white 
sauce. 

Beignet  (bain-yay). — Another  name  for 
fritter. 

Bisque  (bisk). — A  shell*fish  soup. 

Blanc    (blanh). — White.     Any    procesa 

to  give  a  more  delicate  appearance 

-as  to   whiten   poultry,  etc.     Blan- 

chir.     To  whiten  poultry,  fruit,  veg- 

taables,  etc. 

Blanch. — To  plunge  anything  into  boil- 
ing water  for  a  few  minutes. 

Blanquette  (blanh-kett). — Thin  slices 
of  white  meat  of  any  kind,  warmed 
up  in  a  white  sauce  and  thickened 
with  yolks  of  eggs. 

Blignir  (bleen-yay). — To  fritter  any- 
thing in  butter  and  egg  and  fry. 

Bonbon  (bon-bon). — Sweetmeats. 

Bouchees  (boo-shay).  —  Mouthfnls. 
Small  patties  filled  with  various 
preparations, 

Boudin  (boo-dan).  —  Delicate  dishe^ 
prepared  from  forcemeat,  etc. 

Bouillabaise  (boo-ya-base),  —  A  fish 
soup. 

Botdlli  (boo-ee). — Meat  (usually  beef) 
which  is  stewed  a  long  time. 

Bouillic  (boo-yce), — A  French  dish  re- 
sembling hasty  pudding. 

Bouillon  (boo-yohn), — Broth  or  stock; 
the  common  soup  of  France;  the 
liquor  from  the  boilli. 


633 


634 


GLOSSARY 


Bouquet  of  Herbs  (bo-kay).— Parsley, 
onion,  thyme  and  a  bay  leaf  tied  to- 
gether;  used  for  seasoning  soups,  etc. 

Bouquet  Garni,  or  Assaisonne  (as-sai- 
zon-ay)is  the  same  as  the  foregoing, 
■with  the  addition  of  cloves  or  aro- 
matic herbs. 

Braise  (brayz). — To  cook  in  a  closely, 
covered  dish  or  braising  pan. 

Bruiser. — To  stew  meat  in  a  braising 
pan. 

Braisiere  (brayz-yair). — A  pan  used  for 
braising. 

Brawn. — Flesh  of  a  boar.  Also  the 
salted  and  prepared  flesh  or  head  of 
a  pig. 

Brioche  (bree-osh). — A  very  light  bun= 
like  cake.  Baioche  au  couronne  is  a 
broche  in  the  form  of  a  crown  or 
ring. 

Brisket  (bris-ket) — The  breast  of  meat, 
or  the  part  lying  n«xt  the  ribs. 

Brider  (bree-day). — To  pass  a  thread 
through  poultry,  game,  etc.,  to  keep 
the  parts  together. 

Brunoise  (broon-warze). — Clear  soup 
with  vegetables. 

Cafe  au  lait  (ka-fay-o-lay). — Coffee 
with  milk. 

Cafi  Noir  (ka-fay-nwar). — Strong, 
black  coffee. 

Caisse  (kase). — A  little  case  of  paper 
or  china  in  which  various  savories 
are  served. 

Calipash  (kal-e-pash). — The  glutinous 
substance  or  meat  fSund  in  the  up- 
per shell  of  a  turtle. 

Calipee  (kal-e-pee). — The  glutinous 
flesh  found  in  the  lower  shell  of  a 
turtle. 

Canajye  (kan-nap). — A  small  savory;  a 
round  crouton  with  a  puree  in  it. 

Cannelons  (kan-lohn). — Little  rolls  of 
pastry  variously  filled. 

Capilotade  (ka-pee-lo-tad). — A  hash  of 
cooked  meat  or  poultry. 

Capon  (ka-pon). — A  chicken  gelded 
and  fattened  for  the  table. 

Caramel. — Sugar  heated  to  420°  F. 
when  it  loses  its  power  of  crystal- 


lization and  acquires  a  dark  brown 
color  and  a  bitter  flavor. 

Casserole  (kas-role). — A  crust  of  rice, 
potato,  etc.,  which  is  to  be  filled 
with  a  ragout  or  other  preparation. 
Also  a  stew  pan. 

Caul  (kaul). — A  membrane  surround- 
ing most  of  the  lower  intestines. 

Caviar  (ka-ve-arr). — A  preparation 
of  the  roes  of  certain  fish. 

Charlotte  (shar-lot). — Thin  slices  of 
bread  steeped  in  clarified  butter  and 
placed  in  regular  order  and  gar- 
nished.    They  are  entremets. 

Chartreuse  (shar-treuz). — A  dish  made 
in  a  mold  which  is  lined  in  various 
ways. 

Chaufroids  (show-fro-war). — Entrem- 
ets; a  thick  sauce  for  purposes  of 
masking. 

Chine  (kine). — A  piece  of  the  back 
bone  of  an  animal. 

Choux  (shoo). — Small  French  cakes. 

Civet  (see-va). — A  thick,  rich  stew  of 
hare  or  rabbit. 

Clouter  (klou-te). — To  insert  nail 
shaped  pieces  of  tongue  etc.,  into 
meat  or  poultry;  to  put  cloves  in 
meat. 

Collop  (kol-lop). — A  small,  thin,  round 
slice  of  poultry  or  meat. 

Comfits  (kon-fits).— Confections; sweet- 
meats. 

Confitures  (kon-fee-ture).  —  Preserves, 
sweetmeats,  jams,  etc. 

Compote  (kom-pot). — A  stew  of  fruit, 
vegetables,  etc. 

Consomme  (kon-som-may). — ^A  strong, 
clear  soup. 

Coquilles  (ko-kee-ye). — Shell«shaped 
dishes  for  serving  oysters  and  other 
savories. 

Couronne,  En  (koo-ron). — To  serve 
anything  like  fritters,  etc.,  in  the 
shape  of  a  crown  or  ring. 

Cover. — The  place  at  table  arranged 
for  each  guest. 

Crackling. — The  rind  of  roast  perk. 

Crepes  (kreeps). — A  kind  of  pan^cake. 


GLOSSAKY 


635 


Croquantees  (kro-kan-te). — A  bright 
mixture  of  fruit  and  boiled  sugar. 

Croquettes  (kro-kets). — A  preparation 
of  minces  of  meat,  etc.,  flavored  and 
fried  in  any  desired  shape.  The 
word  signifies  something  crisp. 

Croustades  (kroos-tard).  —  Rich  pie 
crust  or  paste,  baked  in  ornamental 
shapes  and  filled  witli  minces,  etc. 

CroUte  (krou-t). — Crusts  or  cakes. 

CroMons  (kru-tong). — Fried  sippets 
of  bread  used  for  garnishing. 

Cullis  (kul-lis). — A  strong  broth  of 
meat,  strained  and  made  clear. 
Also  a  savory  jelly. 

Curacoa  (kur-a-so).  —  A  flavoring 
extract  made  from  oranges.  (See 
"Extracts  and  Flavorings  "). 

Curry  (kur-ry). — A  kind  of  sauce  con- 
taining pepper  and  other  strong 
spices.  Also  a  stew  of  fowl,  fish, 
etc.,  cooked  with  curry  sauce. 

Dariole  (da-re-ol). — Custard,  cream= 
cake,  or  a  sweet  tart  baked  in  a 
dariole  mold. 

Dartwois   (dar-twor). — A  French  puflf= 


Daube  (doe-b).  — Stewed  meat.  En 
daube,  is  meat,  fowl  or  game  stewed 
in  sauce. 

Daubiere  (doe-bee-air). — An  oval  8tew= 
pan. 

Dauphins  (doe-fen). — Tartletts  filled 
with  preserves. 

D&sosser  (das-os-say). — To  take  the 
bones  out  of  meat,  poultry,  etc. 

Doree  (doe-ray). — Egg  beaten  up  and 
brushed  over  pastry  to  give  it  a 
golden  hue. 

Dorure  (doe-roor). — Literally  gilding. 
Well  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  used  to 
give  surfaces  a  golden  or  yellow 
color.  Dorer,  to  gild  with  the  fore- 
going. 

Dresden  Patties. — Same  as  croustades, 
which  see. 

J^clair  (a-klair). — A  small,  light  cake. 

J^ntrSes  (on-tray). — The  made  dishes 
which  follow  the  first  course  at  a 
meal. 


Entremet  (on-tre-may). — Small  side 
dishes,  usually  ornamental,  served 
during  the  second  course.  Entre- 
mets Sucre,  are  sweet  entremets,  and 
include  cakes,  puddings,  etc. 

JEJpigramme  or  Epigram  (ep-e-gram). — 
An  entree  in  which  two  materials 
are  placed  alternately  in  a  ring. 

Escallopes. — Same  as  collops  which 
see. 

Espagnole  (es-pa-gnol).  —  A  rich, 
brown,  Spanish  sauce. 

Fagot. — A  small  bunch  of  thyme,  pars- 
ley, etc.,  tied  together. 

Farce   (fars). — Forcemeat  or    stuffing. 

Feuilletage  (few-e-tazh). — Puff  paste. 

Fillet  (fil-let). — A  piece  of  meat,  game 
or  fish  cut  into  a  string=^like  form. 
Also  the  under  cut  of  a  sirloin  of 
beef. 

Financier e  (fee-nan-ce-air). — A  highly 
flavored  ragout  or  sauce. 

Flamber  (flom-bay). — To  singe  fowl 
or  game  after  being  picked. 

Flan  (flan). — A  French  custard. 

Fiance  (flarn-s). — Side  dishes  for 
dinner. 

Flaun. — Small  pastry,  much  like  tarts. 

Florentines  (flor-an-tin). — Light  pastry 
meringued  over. 

Flummery. — Originally  a  sort  of  pap 
made  of  flour  or  meal;  now  a  light 
food  made  of  various  ingredients. 

Fondant  (fon-dahn). — Literally  melt- 
ing; a  candy  preparation  to  be 
melted  when  used. 

Fondue  (fon-doo).— A  dish  made  with 
melted  cheese. 

Forcemeat. — Mixtures,  principally  of 
bread  crumbs,  herbs  and  suet, 
chopped  together  very  fine  and  fla- 
vored. 

Frappi  (frap-pay).— Meaning  literally 
to  pack  in  ice  boxes;  hence  applied 
to  beverages  partly  frozen  by  being 
packed  in  ice. 

Frangipanc  (frarn-go-pann). — A  kind 
of  pastry  containing  cream  and 
almonds. 


636 


GLOSSARY 


Fricandeaux  (free-kon-doe). — A  piece 
of  meat  larded  and  braised;  served 
nsTially  as  an  entree. 

Fricassee  (fric-as-say). — Fowls,  etc.,  cut 
in  pieces  and  fried. 

Fritter  (frit-ter).  —  Anything  coated 
•with  egg,  batter,  etc.,  and  fried. 

Friture  (fri-ture). — The  substance  used 
for  frying  fritters;  frying  fat  or 
pan;  fried  meat  or  fish. 

Galantine  (ga-lan-tin).  —  Fish,  meat, 
poultry,  etc.,  boned,  stuffed,  cooked, 
and  variously  garnished. 

Galette  (ga-let). — A  broad  thin  cake — 
a  kind  of  muffin. 

Garniture  (gar-ni-ture  ). — The  garnish- 
es or  adjuncts  to  a  dish. 

Gateau  (ga-toe). — Cake,  literally;  used 
often  to  denote  a  pudding,  or  a  kind 
of  tart. 

Gaufres  (go-fers). — Waffles;  wafers; 
light,  spongy  biscuit. 

Genoises  (ge-nwor-s). — Small  cakes 
made  of  French  paste. 

Giblets  (gib-lets). — The  parts  of  a  fowl 
which  are  removed  before  cooking, 
as  the  heart,  liver,  gizzard,  etc. 

Glace  or  Glaze  (glass). — Anything  iced. 
In  confectionery  to  cover  fruits, 
etc.,  with  sugar  which  glistens  when 
hardened.  Also  stock  boiled  down 
thick;  used  to  improve  the  appear- 
ance of  braised  dishes. 

Glacer. — To  apply  the  foregoing  glaze. 

Godiveau  (go-de-vo). — Savory  force- 
meats, used  for  entrees,  etc. 

Grenadines  (gren-aw-din). — Stewed 
meat;  also  a  dish  similar  to  force- 
meat. 

Granites  (grah-nit). — A  beverage  com- 
posed of  light  syrup  and  the  juice 
of  various  fruits. 

Gr'as  (grah). — Fat.  A^i  gras,  means 
dressed  with  meat  gravy. 

Gratin  (gra-tin). — Meat,  fish,  etc.,  co- 
vered with  crumbs  and  browned. 

Griskin  (gris-kin). — The  spine  of  a 
hog. 

Haricot  (har-e-ko).— Beans.  Also  a 
etew  of  vegetables  aad  meat;  origi- 


nally a  dish  of  meat  with  harcots — ■ 
hence  the  name. 

Harslet  (hars-let).^ — The  heart,  liver, 
etc.,  of  an  animal. 

Hartlet  (hart-let). — A  small  wooden  or 
metal  skewer. 

Hors  d'  ceitvres  (hor-deu-vrr). — Small 
side  dishes  served  after  the  soup  or 
fish.  They  are  considered  as  appe- 
tizers, and  consist  of  sardines,  an- 
chovies, cheese  souffles,  etc. 

HucJde. — The  hip.  The  huckle  bone  is 
the  thigh  bone. 

Jardiniere  (zhar-deen-yaire). — A  mixed 
preparation  of  vegetables  stewed 
down  in  their  own  sauce. 

Julienne  (ju-lien). — Clear  soup,  con- 
taining vegetables  cut  in  strips. 

Jugged. — Boiled  or  stewed  in  a  jug; 
thus  jugged  hare  is  a  dish  prepared 
from  stewed  hare. 

Kirswasser  (keersh-was-ser). — A  liquor 
obtained  from  fermented  black  cher- 
ries. 

Knuckle.— The  knee  joint,  especially 
of  a  calf,  as  a  knuckle  of  veal. 

Kromeskies  (kro-mees-kees). — A  Rus- 
sian dish,  prepared  from  croquettes 
wrapped  in  bacon  and  fried. 

Lard. — French  for  Bacon;  hence  to 
stuff  bacon  into  meat,  poultry,  etc. 
The  larding  jmn  is  the  vessel  used 
in  larding. 

Lardons  or  Lardoons. — The  pieces  of 
bacon,    pork,    etc.,   used   in    larding 

•   meat. 

Liaison  (le-a-zon). — Literally  a  bind- 
ing together;  hence  a  mixture  of 
cream,  eggs,  etc.,  used  to  bind  and 
thicken  soups  and  sauces. 

Legumes  (le-gume). — From  the  Latin 
legere,  to  pluck.  Applied  generally 
to  vegetables  which  can  be  gathered 
by  plucking,  like  lettuce,  aspara- 
gus, etc. 

Lights. — The  lungs  of  an  animal. 

Lit  (le). — Literally  a  bed  qr  a  layer; 
hence  slices  in  layers,  with  seasoning 
between. 


GLOSSARY 


637 


Luting  (In-ting). — A  paste  used  to 
"  lute  "  or  fasten  the  lids  on  dishes 
of  potted  game,  etc. 

Macaroon  (mak-a-roon). — A  small, 
sweet  cake. 

Macedoine  (ma-see-do-an). — A  mixture 
of  fruits  or  vegetables. 

Madeleine  (mad-e-leen). — A  cake  similar 
to  pound  cake. 

Maigre  (may-gre). — Dishes  made  -with- 
out meat. 

Maitre  d'  hotel  (me-ter-dotel). —  The 
steward.  A  la  maitre  de  hotel,  is 
literally  in  the  housekeeper's  or 
steward's  manner. 

Maraschino  (mar-as-kee-no). — A  fla- 
voring extract  made  from  cherries. 
(See  "  Extracts  and  Flavorings.") 

Marble. — To  glaze  any  dish  by  sprink- 
ling with  sugar  and  then  burning  it 
with  a  hot  salamander  or  omelet 
shovel. 

Marinade  (mar-e-nade). — A  liquor  in 
which  to  steep  meat,  fish,  etc.,  to 
heighten  the  flavor. 

Marinate,  (mar-e-nate). — To  steep 
anything  in  a  marinade. 

Marmalade  (mar-ma-lade). — A  preserve 
made  of  quince  or  other  fruit. 

Mask. — To  entirely  cover  an  article 
with  any  preparation. 

Matelot  (ma-t-low). — A  fish  stew,  with 
wine. 

Maw. — The  stomach  of  one  of  the 
lower  animals. 

Mayonnaise  (may-on-aze). — A  sauce  or 
salad  dressing,  made  of  oil,  etc. 

Mazarines  (ma-zar-reen). — Same  as 
"turbans,"  which  see. 

Menage  (me-nazh). — Family;  house- 
hold; housewife. 

Menu  (men-oo). — The  bill  of  fare. 

Meringue  (mer-rang). — A  kind  of  icing 
made  of  sugar  and  eggs  beaten  to- 
gether. 

Merepoix  (me-ra-pwah). — Essence  of 
meat  and  vegetables. 

Mirleton  (meer-le-ton). — Tartlets  made 
of  chocolate,  almonds,  pistachio 
nuts,  or   with  preserves  and  jams. 


Mirotin  (me-ro-ton). — Slices  of  meat, 
larger  than  coUops;  the  meat  served 
in  a  ring. 

Montylas  (mon-glar). — A  preparation 
of  poultry,  game,  etc.,  chopped, 
mixed  with  naushrooms,  etc.,  and 
thickened  with  sauce. 

Mouiller  (moo-yay). — Literally  to  wet; 
to  add  water  or  broth  during  cook- 
ing. 

Mouse  (moose). — The  piece  of  beef  cut 
from  the  part  next  below  the  round; 
also  called  the  mouse=buttock. 

Mousse  (moose). — Literally  moss;  a 
preparation  of  cream,  sugar,  etc., 
frozen;  much  like  ice  cream. 

Nougat  (noo-ga). — A  cake  made  of  al- 
monds and  sugar. 

Noodles  (nu-dles). — A  mixture  of  flour 
and  eggs  cut  in  strips  and  boiled. 

Noyau  (nwa-yo). — A  flavoring  extract 
made  from  almonds.  (See  "Ex- 
tracts and  Flavorings .") 

Nudels. — Same  as  noodles. 

Omelette  (om-let). — Derived  from  the 
French  oeufs  meler,  meaning  ming- 
led eggs.  Omelette  souffle  is  a  puffed 
up  omelette.  Omelette  aux  confi- 
tures, contains  jellies  and  other 
sweets. 

Orgeaie  (or-zha). — A  beverage  made 
with  sugar,  almonds  and  water. 

Panada  (pa-na-da). — A  mixture  of 
bread,  milk,  etc.,  used  in  making 
forcemeats.  Also  bread  or  crackers 
soaked  in  water  or  milk  and  season- 
ed. 

Paner  (pa-nay). — To  cover  with  egg 
and  bread  crumbs. 

Papillotes  (pa-pee-yot). — Cutlets,  etc., 
cooked  and  sent  to  the  table  in 
papers. 

Parmesan  (par-me-zan).  —  Parmesan 
cheese. 

Parboil  (par-boil). — To  boil  moder- 
ately or  in  part. 

Pamire  (pan-nure). — Cutlets,  cro- 
quettes, etc.,  which  are  covered  with 
bread  crumbs. 


'638 


GLOSSARY 


Pdti  (pa-tay). — A  small  pie.  Pat6  de 
foie  gras  is  literally  a  pie  of  fat  liver. 

Patty  or  Patties. — Small  pies. 

Paupiettes  (po-pe-et).  Slices  of  meat, 
rolled. 

Petits  Fours  (pee-tee-foor). — Small 
cakes. 

Piccalilli  (pik-ka-lil-Ii). — An  East 
Indian  dish  of   pungent  spices,  etc. 

Piice  de  Resistance  (pace  de  ra-zis- 
tarnce). — The  principal  dish  of  the 
dinner. 

Pilaff  (pe-laf). — Same  as  pilau. 

Pilau  or  Pillau  (pil-low). — A  Turkish 
dish  consisting  of  stewed  rice  with 
meat  or  poultry. 

Piping  (pi-ping), — Ornamenting  pas- 
try, etc.,  with  a  piping  tube. 

Piquer  (pee-kay). — To  lard  meat. 

Pluck. — The  heart,  liver  and  lights  of 
an  animal. 

Poele  (po-ell). — Stock  used  for  boil- 
ing fowls,  etc. 

Posset  (pos-set). — To  curdle;  a  bever- 
age compound  of  curded   milk,    etc. 

Potage  (po-taj). — Soup. 

Pot'au'Feu  (pote-o-few). — Literally  the 
pot  on  the  fire;  hence  the  stock  pot 
for  soup;  also  now  applied  to  the 
broth  made  in  the  pot. 

P  rintanier  (prin-ta-ne-ay). — Clear 
soup,  with  spring  vegetables  of 
various  kinds. 

Puree  (pu-ree). — Vegetables,  meat,  etc., 
reduced  to  a  pulp  and  mixed  with 
liquid  to  make  a  thick  soup. 

Quenelle  (kee-nel). — Delicate  forcemeat 
formed  into  balls  and  poached. 

Ragout  (ra-goo). — A  rich  stew  of  meats, 
etc. 

Raisine  (ray-ze-nay). — A  French  jam 
compounded  of  fruits,  etc. 

Ramequins  (ram-kin). — An  entremet, 
made  from  cheese,  puff  paste,  etc. 

Ravigote  (ray-ve-go). — A  rich  white 
sauce. 

RechauffS  (ray-shuw-fee).  —  Literally 
reheated;  hence  meat,  etc.,  rewarmed. 

Relievis  (ral-ve). — Dishes,  like  roasts, 


which  form  the  substantial  part  of 

the  meal. 
Removes. — Same  as  relieves. 
Remoulade      (rem-oo-lad). — A      sharp 

sauce  used  for  salad  dressing. 
Rissoles     (re-soU). — Puff     paste    filled 

with  minces  and  fried. 
Roux  (roo). — Fried  or  burnt  flour  used 
,     for  thickening  soups,  etc. 
Salmis  (sal-me). — Hashes  of  game. 
Sawte  (so-tay). — To  fry  in  a  frying  pan. 

Sauter,  is  to  fry  thus  in  a  sauce. 
Savories  (sa-vo-rees). — Small  dishes  of 

cheese,  etc.,   served  at  the  close  of 

dinner. 
Semole  (see-mool). — A  coarse,  sand  like, 

wheat  meal. 
Serviette  (serv-yet). — A  napkin.     A  la 

serviette,  is  served  up  in  a  napkin. 
Sherbet   (sher-bet). — An   agreeable  fla- 
vored beverage. 
Sippets    (sip-pets). — Small    pieces     of 

bread,  fried  and  used  for  garnishing. 
Skewer. — A  pointed  piece  of  wood  used 

to  hold  meat  in  place  while  cooking. 
Sorbet  (sor-bay). — A  partly  frozen,  well 

flavored  beverage.     Saubetiere,  a  box 

used  for  making  sorbets. 
Soufl&  (soo-flay). — A  light  pudding. 
Stock. — The  broth  of  which  soups  are 

made. 
Tamis  or   Tammy  (Tam-my). — A  fine 

sieve  for  straining  sauces,  broth,  etc 
Timbale  (tim-bal). — A  sort  of  meat  pie. 
Truffle    (truf-fle).— A  kind    of    mush- 
room. 
Truss. — To  skewer;  to    prepare  fowls 

for  cooking. 
Turbans  (tur-ban). — Ornamental  small 

dishes  made  of  fillets  of  fish,  game, 

etc. 
Veloute     (ve-loo-tay). — A     rich     white 

sauce. 
Vol-au'Vcnt    (vol-o-van). — A  crust    of 

puff  paste  filled  with  a  ragout,  fruit, 

etc. 
Zest. — The  thin  yellow  rind  of  orange 

used  for  flavoring. 


INDEX 


BEVERAGES  AND  SYRUPS- 

,554  to  572 

Chicory , 562 

Choca 563 

Chocolate. 562,563 

Cocoa    ....... 563.  564 

Coffee  . 556  to  562 

Mate,  or  Paraguay  tea .564 

Tea,  to  make 554 

Miscellaneous  Beverages. 564  to  570 

About  summer  drmks 567 

Apple  water 564 

Blackberry  nectar 565 

Cherry  acid .  .  565 

Cider 569 

Cocoanut  beverage 565 

Cream  soda ....  565 

Currant  shrub  565 

Currant  water 565 

Ginger  beverage 566 

Ginger  pop .569 

Gooseberry  shrub 566 

Grape  juice  and  almonds 565 

Grape  water 565 

Jelly  beverages 565 

Koumiss .  .565 

Lemonade,  6  recipes 566,  567 

Lemon  beer , 569 

Mead » 567 

Milk  beer , 569 

Oatmeal  drink  .  , 567 

Orangeade 568 

Orgeate 568 

Persian  iDeverage. . 568 

Pineapple  beverage  .568 

Raspberry  acid 568 

Raspberry  shrub 568 

Raspberry  water 568 

Spruce  beer .570 

Strawberry  acid   569 

Strawberry  shrub 568 

Strawberry  water 569 

'Tamarind  water 568 

Tisane 569 

Tomato  beverage .569 

Tutti  frutti 569 

Vinegar  water 567 

Honey,  artificial 572 

Syrups,  16  recipes  570  to  572 

BREAD,   BISCUIT,   MUFFINS, 
WAFFLES.   SANDWICHES, 

TOASTS,  ETC 256  to  294 

Bannock,  Indian  . .    279 

Biscuit,  14  recipes       273,  274 

Bread , ...,..,.257  to  272 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS, 
ETC. -(Continued  ) 

Bread,  baking  of .259 

Bakmg  powder  bread 262,  268 

Baking  powder  to  make       ...  ,265 

Boston  brown , .  .  ,  .269,  270 

Bread-box  for  .    .  , 261 

Brown  . 269 

Buttermilk .    ..2G9 

Carolina  rice 271 

Corn     ._270 

Cornmeai  for  . .    .      261 

Eating  hot 201 

Entire  w  heat  . .      207 

Essentials  of  making   .    .    ...o.258 

Gluten  .    ..... ,.,  .271 

Graham -  ,  *  .271 

Half  and  half  , 267 

Keeping  of 200 

Kentucky  egg  corn 270 

Kneading  of 258 

Mifk 267,  268 

Mixing  flours  for 2431 

Mixing  of 257 

Oatmeal 271 

Once  raised     ,    2Cj> 

Oven  for  baking 259 

Pans  for    .... 250 

Pastry  flour  for , 202 

Prepared  flour  262 

Principles  involved  in  making. 262 

Potatoes  in 262 

Pumpkin 272 

Rice 271 

Rising  of 2.58 

Rye 272 

Salt  rising 208 

Squash 272 

Stale,  to  utilize 272 

Steamed  com  270 

Sugar  in 202 

Time  to  bake 206 

Water 200 

White 200 

While  corn 270 

Yeast  for 258 

Brioches    275 

Buns,  3  recipes 274.  27."i 

Cakes,  buckwheat,  baked 279 

Corn  cake 278 

Cracked  wheat 288 

Cracker.s,  4  recipes 270,  277 

Crackers,  cheese 202 

Crumpets,  2  recipes 2S2 

Diamonds,  graliam  . .    277 

Dodgers,  corn 279 


639 


640 


INDEX. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  MUFFINS, 
ETC.— (ContiDued.) 

Farina .....288 

Flannel  cakes 285 

Gems,  3  reciijes 280 

Gems,  egg 187 

Gramila 288 

Griddle  cakes,  18  recipes.  .283  to  285 

Hasty  pudding 289 

Hoe  cake 279 

Hulled  corn 288 

Imperial  granum 288 

Johnny  cake,  5  recipes 270,  277 

Muffins,  14  recipes 280,  281 

Mushes,  10  recipes 2SG  to  288 

Oatmeal  cakes 282.  283 

Patties,  green  corn 279 

Pon  e,  corn 278,  279 

Pop  overs , 283 

Puffs,  2  recipes . . .  = 283 

Rolls,  4  recipes 27(j 

Rusks,  2  recipes . .    275 

Sally  luun 282 

Sandwiches,  40  recipes.  .  .290  to  294 

Scones,  2  recipes 282 

Spider  cake.  2  recipes, 278 

Toast,  7  recipes 289,  280 

Toast,  tomato .253 

Walers 273 

Waffles,  7  recipes 285,  28G 

Wheat  germ 288 

Wheatlet  with  dates 288 

Yeast,  5  recipes 2G3,  204 

CAKES 346  to  408 

General  directions  for. .  .  .340  to  355 

Almonds,  to  prepare 348 

Baking  powder 349 

Butter  for  cake 340 

Cake  baked  in  paper .352 

Cinnamon 348 

Citron,  preparing  for  use 348 

Cocoanut,  preparing  for  use 348 

Cream  of  tartar. 349,  3.50 

Crystallization 398 

Currants,  preparing  for  use 349 

Dates,  preparing  for  use. .  ,  . 349 

Eggs  tor  cakes 347 

Extracts  and  flavorings ,    .355 

Frosting,  12  recipes 393  to  395 

Icing,  4  recipes . .  : .395 

Ornamental  icing 395  to  398 

Piping 397 

Milk  for  cake,  etc. 348 

Flour,  pastry 347 

Fruit  cake,  hints  about , .  .  ..354 

Fruit  for  cake .348 

Gingerbread,  hints  about 355 

High  altitudes,  cooking  in 358 

Raisins  for  cake .340 

Soda  for  cooking 319,  3.50 

Spices 34S 

Sugar  for  cake  . .    340 


CAKES.-(Continued ) 

Fillings  for  layer  cakes. .  .359  to  3G3 

Layer  cakes 303 

1-2-3  cake .,..303 

Almond  cake 1 .  .304 

Apple  jelly  cake  . 304 

Chocolate,  2  recipes 304,  305 

Cocoanut  cake,  2  recipes 305 

Cocoanut  white  cake 370 

Corn-starch  jelly  cake ':3C8 

Cream  cake,  3  x-ecipes 304,  305 

'Cream  puffs ,371 

'Custard  cake 300 

Date  cake 360 

Denver  cake 300 

Economical  layer  cake 306 

Fig  layer  cake 306 

Iroquois  cake 307 

Jelly  cake 307 

Minnehaha  cake 308 

Xut  layer  cake 368 

Orange  cake 308 

Oriental  cake 309 

Peach  cake 367 

Polonaise  cake 370 

Riljbon  cake 371 

Rochester  jelly  cake  ...      ...  .367 

Rolled  jelly  cake 308 

Strawberry  cake  ... .....  373 

Vanity  cake . 372 

White  cake 370 

Loaf  cakes .372  to  398 

Almond  cake   372 

Angel's  food 373 

Apple  cake,  3  recipes.  .  ^ 373 

Black  cake 374 

Bluel)erry  cake 374 

Bread  cake 374 

Buttermilk  cake 374 

Cameron  cake 374 

Canada  cake 375 

Chocolate  cake 375 

Cider  cake 375 

Citron  cake 375 

Clove  cake 375 

Coffee  cake 375 

Cold  water  cake 370 

"Confederate  cake ,  .376 

Corn-starch,  2  recipes 370 

Cream  cake  370 

Date  cake , .377 

Delicate  cake 376 

Dennison  cake 377 

Dough  cake 377 

Feather  cake 378 

Fountain  cake 378 

French  cake 377 

Fruit  cake,  6  recipes 378,  379 

Georgia  cake  379 

Gingerbread,  13  recipes. 388  to  3!X) 

Gingerbread,  icing  for 395 

Ginger  cake 388 

Gold  cake 379 


INDEX 


641 


CAKES.-(Oontinued.) 

liOaf  cakes,  graham  , , . . , 380 

Groom's  cake ,.,,,,.. 380 

Hasty  cake . .  .380 

Hickory-nut  cake , .  .380 

Huckleberry  cake 374 

Ice  cream  cake 380 

Imperial  cake , 381 

Lemon 381 

Marble  cake,  2  recipes , . .  .381 

Molasses  cake 382 

Mountain  cake 382 

Quick  cake 383 

Plum  cake 382 

Poor  man's  cake. 383 

Pork  cake 388 

Pound  cake 383 

One  egg  cake 382 

Orange  cake .382 

Raisin  cake 383,  384 

Raised  cake 383 

•Silver  cake 3&4 

'Snow  cake 384 

Spice  cake 385 

Sponge  cake,  6  recipes. . .  .384,  385 

Sunshine  cake .38G 

Tennessee  cake 383 

Watermelon  cake 387 

Wedding  cake 386 

White  cake .387 

Whortleberry  cake 388 

(Small  cakes 398  to  408 

Almond  drops 398 

Anise  drops .398 

Cookies,  15  recipes 399  to  402 

Cookies,  icing  for ......,  =  .395 

Cream  cakes  » , 407 

Eclairs  ..........  .,, 405 

Ginger  biscuits c  -. . . ..  .402 

Ginger  drops,  2  recipes, .,,..,  .399 

Ginger  nuts .399 

Ginger  snaps,  4  recipes. .  .403 

Jumbles,  4  recipes. ., , . .  .402 

Kisses ,.  .........     ,...406 

Lady  fingers » . .  .404 

Macaroons,  4  recipes  ..... .404,  405 

iMaple  sugar  cakes 406 

Patty  cakes 406 

Pastry  bag,  to  make, .  o .    404 

Puffs ,....,,.  =..    ,..407 

Puffs,  cream 405 

Sand  tarts  , 408 

Savoy  biscuits .  .407 

Shrewsbury  cakes  .   407 

Snaps,  6  recipes 403,  404 

Trifles 408 

Turtle  cakes.  , 408 

Vernon  cakes. . 407 

HO:\rE  CANDY  MAKING.447  to  403 

General  directions 447  to  450 

Almond  creams 453 

Balls ...453 


Candy,  bonbons 456 

Butternut  balls 461 

Butter  scotch , 458 

Caramels 4(30 

Chocolate  creams  . 453 

Cocoanut  creams 453,  456 

Corn-cake 462 

Cough  candy 458 

Cream  candies 451,  454,  455 

Cream  coated  fruits 454 

Cream  nut  candy .456 

Cream  walnuts,  dates,  etc 455 

Crystallized  cherries 461 

Crystallized  fruits ,  .462 

Crystallized  nuts 462 

Drops 459,460 

Fig  candy .461 

Fondant 451,  454 

French  chocolates 461 

Frosted  or  iced  fruits ,  . .  .462 

Fruit  creams 453 

Fudge , .     463 

Ginger  drops 459 

Glaces 455 

Hoarhouud  candy 460 

Honey  candy  .  , , .    461 

Lemon  creams  .  : 4.52 

Lemon  drops    459 

Lozenges   455 

Maple  sugar  creams 4.53 

Marsh-mallows     456 

Molasses  candy 457,  458 

Nougat 456 

Orange  creams 452 

Orange  peel,  candied 463 

Patties 454 

Peanut  candy    461 

Peppermint  drops 459 

Popcorn   461,  462 

Raspberry  creams 453 

Ratafias 462 

iStrawberry  creams 453 

Sweet  fig  candy  . ,  . .    458 

Taffy  ...    457 

Walnut  creams 453 

White  candy  ....    , .  .462 

Wintergreen  drops  -    460 

CANNING  FRUITS,  ETC.518  to  529 

General  directions ,  ■  .  .518  to  520 

Utensils  used  .      - . —    ..529 

Canning  without  syrup .526 

Cold  process  for  canning  520 

Canning  apples 523 

Apricots 522 

Asparagus 524 

Beans 524 

Beets . ......      .  .524 

Berries     520 

Blackberries 523 

Cabbage 524 

Carrots 524 

Cherries 523.  527 

Currants .521.  52l^  527 


642 


INDEX. 


CANNING  FRUITS— (Gontinued). 

Corn 5^3 

Damsons 521 

Dewberries 521 

Elderberries 521 

Fruit  juices 525 

Grapes 522,  526 

Gooseberries 521,  526 

Greengages 521 

Huckleberries 522,  527 

Juneberries 522 

Lima  beans 524 

Nectarines 523 

Peaches 523,  527 

Pears 527 

Pears 523,  521 

Pineapples 523 

■    Plums 521,  523 

Pumpkin 524 

Quinces 522 

Raspberries 521,  522,  527 

Rhubarb 522,  527 

Strawberries 522,  523,  527 

Succotash   525 

Tomatoes 525 

Meat,  canning  of 527,  528 

CARVING 589  to  602 

OOLORS     FOR     FROSTINGS, 
CANDIES,  ETC 302,  303 

DESSERTS 409  to  433 

Preliminary  hints  409 

Air  balls 416 

Blanc  mange,  7  recipes. .  .410,  411 

Blanc  mange,  5  recipes 588 

Charlotte  russe  417 

Cracker  dessert 417 

Creams,  7  recipes 415,  416 

Custards,  21  recipes 411  to  415 

Floating  island 417 

Jelly  and  rice  dessert 417 

Kiss  pudding   417 

Layer  pudding 417 

Mock  lemon  jelly 418 

Molded  snow 418 

Puffs,  dessert 418,  424 

Rice  dessert,  3  recipes 418 

iSago  float 416 

Scandinavian  rogrod 418 

Sponge  biscuit  for  dessert 419 

Fruit  desserts 419  to  426 

Apple  float 419 

Apple  Kuchen 419 

Apple  snow,  2  recipes 419 

Banana  dessert,  2  recipes 420 

Berry  dessert 420 

Bird's  nest 421 

Cocoanut  corn-starch 420 

Flummery 423 

French  jellies 421 

Fruit  cups 420 

Fruit  desserts,  3  recipes.  .  .421,  422 


DESSERTS— (Continued). 

Fruit  on  toast 426 

Fruit  puffs  424 

Fruit  trifle 425 

Fruit  whip 422 

Lemon  cream 422 

Mock  raspberries   425 

Mock  strawberries 425 

Oranges  and  cocoanut 422 

Oranges  and  rhubarb 423 

Orange  dressing 422 

Orange  float 422 

Orange  pudding 423 

Peaches  and  rice 423 

Pear  meringue 423 

Pineapple  pudding 424 

Prune  whip 424 

Puffs,  fruit 424 

Quince  snow 424 

Raspberry  snow 420 

Red  currant  snow 419 

Sago  with  fruit 424 

Snowed  fruit 421 

Strawberry  foam 424 

Strawberry  snow  420 

Tapioca  nut  cream 421 

Tapioca  with  fruit 424 

Thickened  cream 421 

Turon 425 

Tutti  frutti 425 

Gelatine  preparations. . .  .427  to  433 

Almond  blanc  mange 428 

Apples  in  jelly 428 

Bananas  in  jelly 428 

Calf's  foot  jelly 429 

Charlotte  russe 429 

Chocolate  charlotte  russe 428 

Chocolate  cream 429 

Cider  jelly 429 

Cocoanut  cream 430 

Cofl:ee  jelly 429 

English  cream  jelly 429 

Frozen  pudding 430 

Gooseberry  cream 429 

Jelly  of  different  colors 428 

Lemon  cream 430 

Lemon  gelatine 429 

Lemon  jelly,  2  recipes 430 

Lemon  whip 430 

Macedonian  jelly 431 

Mock  ice 430 

Orange  cream  431 

Orange  dessert 431 

'Orange  jelly,  2  recipes 431 

Peach  cream   431 

Pineapple  cream 431 

Pineapple  jelly 432 

Prune  jelly 432 

Rice  cream 432 

Russian  cream 432 

Russian  jelly  432 

Snow  pudding 433 

Spanish  cream 433 


INDEX. 


643 


DESSERTS— (Continued). 

Strawberry  jelly 433 

Vanilla  cream   433 

Velvet  cream 433 

DOUGHNUTS,       FRITTERS, 

ETC.- 338  to  345 

Cannelons 345 

Crullers,  2  recipes 340 

Doughnuts,  G  recipes 339,  340 

Fried  cakes,  2  recipes 341 

Jolly  boys 341 

Fritters,  27  recipes 342  to  345 

ECGS 184  to  191 

Ancliovied  eggs 190 

Baked  eggs 190 

Boiling  of  eggs 114,  185,  186 

Breakfast  eggs ISS 

Cold  fried  eggs 187 

Coloring  and  dying  of  eggs 185 

Creamed  eggs 186 

Curried  eggs  180 

Deviled  eggs  187 

Dropped  eggs  on  toast 187 

Egg  gems 187 

Fried  eggs  187 

Ham  and  eggs 190 

Omelets,  8  recipes 188,  189 

Omelet,  beef  130 

Pickled  eggs 534 

Poached  eggs 189 

Poached  in  gravy 190 

Scalloped  eggs   190 

Egg  nests 188 

Eggs  on  rice 190 

Eggs  on  toast 191 

Escalloped  eggs  187 

Scotch  eggs  .*....  191 

Scrambled  eggs 190 

Shirred  eggs   190 

Snowed  eggs 191 

Spanish  eggs  190 

Steamed  eggs  191 

StufEedeggs 191 

EXTRACTS      AND     FLAVOR- 
INGS  355  to  358 

Curry  powder 108 

Flavoring  sugar 393 

Flavored  vinegars 109,  110 

Herb  powder 108 

Ragout  powder 109 

Sassafras  powder 109 

Virginia  flavoring   31 

FISH  AND  FROGS 48  to  81 

Au  gratin,  fish 57 

Baking  fish 55 

Boning  fish  49 

Boiling  fish 50,    53 

Broiling  fish  53 

Broiled  salt  fish 54 

Caviar CO 

Cleanin-  fi^h 48 


FISH  AND  FROGS— (Continued). 

Cold  fl;ih,  Utilizing  of 58 

Creamed  fish 58 

Crimping  of  fish GO 

Croquettes  of  fish 181 

Curry  of  fish 57 

Escalloped  fish 58,    59 

Fillets  of  fish 5G 

Fish  balls 57 

Fish  cakes 59 

Fish  chowder 58 

Frying  fish 54 

Garuishing  of  fish 50,  (JSO 

Hints 49 

Keeping  fish  "0 

Marinade  for  fish .54 

Methods  of  cooking  fi^h CO 

IMuddy  taste,  to  remove 49 

Pickled  fish 57 

Pie,   fish 59 

Potted  fish 59,  179 

Redressed  cold  fish 59 

Sauteing  fish 55 

Scaling  fish 49 

Skinning  fish 49 

Spiced  fish 57 

Steaming  fish  52 

Stewed  fish 53 

Stuffing  for  baked  fish. 5G 

Thawing  when  frozen 50 

To  freshen  salt  fish 49 

Turbans  of  fish 57 

Fishes,  cooking  of GO  to    81 

Alevrife    IKJ 

Anchovies GO 

Barbel 61 

Bass 61 

Blackfish 61 

Bleak   61 

Bloater G9 

Bluefish G2 

Bonito 62 

Bream G2 

Burbot G9 

Butterfish   62 

Carp   63 

Catfish  (!3 

Char   G4 

Chub W 

Coalfish   72 

Codfish 61 

Cod  sounds i'.." 

Codfish  tongues 6.."> 

Cusk 69 

Dace GG 

Drum GG 

Eels G5 

Fl  nuuler GG 

(Jrayling G7 

(Judgoon   G7 

tJuruard 67 

Haddock 67 

Hake tW 

Halibut CkS 


644 


INDEX. 


FISH  AND  FROGS— (Continued). 

Herring <jU 

Lamprey 09 

Ling  09 

'Maclierel   TO 

Menliadden TO 

Mullet •. TO 

Muskellunge Tl 

Perch Tl 

Pickerel Tl 

Pike  T2 

Place T2 

Pollock T2 

Pompano    T3 

Porgy T2 

Ray T3 

Red  snapper T2 

Roach T3 

Roes T3 

Salmon T4 

Sardines To 

Scrod 65 

Scuppaug T6 

Shad TO 

■Sheepshead TO 

,Skate T3 

iSmelts TT 

Sole TT 

Sprats  78 

Squeteaque T8 

Sturgeon T8 

Suckers T8 

iSunflsh T9 

Swordfish T9 

Tautog T9 

Thornback T9 

Tomcods 65 

Trout T9 

Tunnv  T9 

Turbot  80 

Weakfish 81 

Whitebait 81 

Whitefish 81 

Whiting 81 

Frogs 60 

SHELL-FISH— OYSTERS,  LOB- 
ISTERS,      TURTLES,      ETC., 

82  to  94 

Clams,  6  recipes 82,  83 

Crabs,  0  recipes 83,  84 

Cray-fish,  3  recipes 84,  85 

Lobsters,  11  recipes 85  to  88 

Oysters,  21  recipes 88  to  92 

Prawns 85 

Scallops 93 

Shrimps    85 

Terrapin 93 

Turtles 93 

FLAVORING— See  Extracts. 

FRUITS  AND  NUTS 404  to  48T 

Acids  in  fruits 405 

About  eating  fruit 404 


FRUITS  AND  NUTS-(Continued). 

Apples 400,  501 

Apricots 400,  500 

Bananas 460,  480 

Barberry,  the SOT 

Berries 406 

Bilberry,  the 511 

Blackberry,  the  544 

Blueberrj^  the 406 

Cantelopes 468 

Cherry,  the 325,  467 

Citron    475 

Cocoanut,  the 304,  407 

Cranberry,  the 494 

Currants 407,526 

Dates 305,407 

To  prepare  for  cooking 349 

Dewberry,  the  521 

Figs 407,  480 

Elderberry,  the   545 

Gooseberries 467,  481 

Grapes  467,  510 

Grapefruit 467 

Guava  468 

Huckleberry,  the 527 

Lemon,  the  567 

Lime,  the 536 

Mango 468 

Mangostan 469 

Melons 468,  476 

Mulberry,  the 408,  512 

Olives 468 

Oranges 423,  469 

Peaches .• 469 

Pears 4T0,  483 

Persimmons 4T0 

Pineapples   445,  4T0 

Plums 4T1,  495,  515 

Pomegi'anate 4T1 

Priclvl.v  pears  4T2 

Raspberries 4T1.  552,  5T1 

Ethubarb,  origin,  etc 484 

.Shaddock   46T 

Sloe 4T1 

Strawberries   4T1.  ,j04 

Tamarind  4T2 

Whortleberry,  the   466 

Compotes  of  fruit 485  to  487 

Cooked  fruits 4TT  to  485 

Using  sugar  iu  cooking 4T7 

Apples,  7  recipes 477,  478 

Apple  butter 477 

Apple  sauce,  5  recipes 479 

Bananas.  3  recipes 480 

Cranberry  sauce 479,  480 

Damson  sauce 483 

Date  sauce 480 

Dried  i)erries,  stewed 481 

Fig  sauce 481 

Goosolierry  fool  481 

Gooseberry  trifle 481 

L^mon  butter 481 

Lftinon  jelly 481 


INDEX. 


645 


FRUITS  AND  NUTS— (Oontintiecl). 

Quinces,  2  reciped 483 

Peaches,  3  recipes 481,  482 

Peach  sauce 479 

Peaches,  to  skin 481 

Pears,  3  recipes 482 

Plum  charlotte 483 

Pi'unes,  3  recipes 483 

Raisine 484 

Rhubarb,  butter 484 

Rhubarb,  stewed 484 

Tamarind  sauce 484 

Tomato  butter 484 

Dried  fruits 473  to  476 

Apples ■ 474 

Apples,  to  skin 474 

Blackberries 474 

Cherries 474 

Citron 475 

Cooking  dried  fruit 474 

Currants 475 

Gooseberries 475 

Keeping  dried  fruit 474 

Peaches 476 

Pears 474 

Pineapples 476 

Plums 470 

Quinces 474 

Watermelon  rinds 476 

Nuts 472 

Almond,  the 321 

Almonds,  glazed 473 

Almonds,  salted 473 

Almonds,  sugared 472 

Brazil-nuts .472 

Chestnut,  the 151 

'Chestnuts,  roasted 472 

Peanut,  the 461 

Peanuts,  salted 473 

Walnut,  the 548 

Walnuts,  salted  473 

HASH    AND    CROQUETTES— 

176  to  183 

Croquettes,  14  recipes. .  .179  to  182 

Kouftas 183 

Kromeskies 182 

Scotch  coUops 182 

Hash,  10  recipes 176  to  178 

Garnishing  of 633 

Pilaff  179 

Scrapple 178 

ICE   OREAINIS,    WATER    ICES 
AND  SHERBETS.  . .  .434  to  446 

Frappes 444 

Granites 444 

Ice  ci'eams 434  to  443 

Preliminary  suggestions.434  to  438 

Almond 440 

'Baked  apple 440 

Banana 440 


■  ICE  CREAMS,  ETC.— (Continued). 

Ice  cream,  bisque 440 

Brown  bread 441 

Burnt  almond   440 

Caramel 440 

Chocolate 441 

Coffee 441 

Frozen  fruit 443 

Fruit 441 

Fruit  juice 441 

Fruit  molds 443 

Gelatine 441 

Iced  strawberry  pudding 443 

Lemon  441 

Macaroon 441 

Macedoines 442 

Mousse  443 

Neapolitan  ice  cream,  4  reeipes.438 

Nesselrode  puddin.q; 442 

Nut 442 

Orange 442 

Pineapple 442 

Pistachio    442 

Philadelphia  ice  cream,  3  rec- 
ipes  438 

Tea 441 

Tutti  frutti 442 

Vanilla 442 

Sherbets 444,  445 

Sorbets 446 

Water  ices 444,  445 

INVALID  COOKERY.  . .  ..573  to  588 

Appetite,  the 579 

Apple  water 583 

Arrowroot 585 

Asses'  milk 585 

Barley  water 583 

Beef  juice 582 

Beef  tea 582,  583 

Beef  tea,  value  of 577 

Bilious  tendency 579 

Blanc  mange,  5  recipes 588 

Bread  jelly 570 

Broth,  2  recipes 581 

Broth,  value  of 578 

Buttermilk,  use  of 577 

Cocoa,  for  invalids 579 

Coffee,  for  invalids 579 

Consumptive  tendency 579 

Cream,  use  of 577 

Diet,  its  importance 580 

Elm  jelly 5S7 

Egg  drinks,  3  recipes 584 

Eggs  for  invalids 582 

Eggs,  use  of 577 

Essence  of  moat 581.  582 

Fats  and  oils 580 

Fats  for  the  system 577 

Fat.  to  remove  from  brotli 5S1 

Fever  cases 576 

Fine  Hour  bread 578 

Flaxsod  tea 584 


646 


INDEX. 


INVALID  COOKERY— (Continued). 

Flour,  baked  or  boiled 580 

Frangipane 586 

Goat's  milk 585 

Goat's  milk,  artificial 585 

Gout 589 

Gruels,  7  recipes 586,  587 

Iceland  moss 588 

Jellies 587,  588 

Jelly,  gelatine  and  isinglass 578 

Juice  of  fruits 579 

Lemonade,  hot 583 

Licorice  tea 584 

Lime 580 

Lime  water 584 

Linseed  tea 584 

Meat  patty 582 

Milk  porridge 587 

Mutton,  toasted 582 

Oatmeal  jelly 587 

Panada,  cracker 588 

Porridge 587 

Rennet  whey 584 

Restorative  jelly 587 

Rice  and  milk 585 

Rice  jelly 587 

Rice  water 583 

Sandwiches,  raw  beef 582 

Scrofulous  diseases  580 

Sippets 586 

Slippery  elm  tea 584 

Soup,  milk 581 

Steak,  broiled 582 

Stomach  and  bowel  disorder.  . .  .576 

Suet  and  milk 586 

Swiss  cream 585 

Tapioca  jelly 587 

Tea,  for  invalids 579 

Toast,  milk  or  cream 586 

Toast,  value  of 578 

Toast,  water 583 

Vegetables,  for  invalids 579 

Wine  jelly 588 

Whey,  use  of 577,  584 

Wine  whey 584 

JAM'S,       JELLIES,       MARMA- 
LADES, PRESERVES,  ETC., 

488  to  517 

General  suggestions 488  to  491 

Fruit  cheeses,  4  recipes. ..  .499,  500 

Fruit  pastes,  8  recipes 500  to  502 

Jams 502  to  504 

Apple  ginger 502 

Apple  jam  502 

Barberry  jam  503 

Blackberry  jam  502 

Cherry  jam  503 

Currant  jam 503 

Gooseberry  jam 503 

Grape  jam  503 

Quince  jam  504 

Pineapple  jam 503 


JAMS,     JELLIES,    ETC.-(Contin- 
ued). 
Pineapple  parings,  to  utilize.  .  .503 

Plum  jam 503 

Raspberry  jam 504 

Rhubarb  jam   504 

Strawberry  jam 504 

Tomato  jam 504 

Vegetable  marrow  jam 504 

Jellies 491  to  496 

Apple  jelly 493 

Blackberry  jelly 493 

Cherry  jelly 493 

Crab  apple  jelly 493 

Cranberry  jelly 493 

Currant  jelly 493 

Damson  jelly   495 

Dried  apple  jelly 493 

Gooseberry  jelly   495 

Grape  jelly   495 

Guava  jelly 494 

Mango  jelly 495 

Quince  jelly 495 

Peach  jelly  495 

Pear  jelly 495 

Plum  jelly 495 

Plum  and  apple 493 

Raspberry  jelly  493 

Rhubarb  jelly 496 

Strawberry  jelly  493 

Tutti  frutti  jelly 496 

Various  jellies  493 

Wild  plum  jelly 496 

Marmalades 496  to  499 

Making  marmalade 496 

Testing  marmalade 496 

Apple  marmalade 497,  498 

Apricot  marmalade 497 

Blackberry  marmalade 498 

Crab  apple  marmalade 498 

Grape  marmalade -, .  .497 

Orange  marmalade 497 

Quince  marmalade 497,  498 

Peach  marmalade 497 

Pear  marmalade 497 

Plum  marmalade 498 

Raspberry  marmalade 498 

Rhubarb  marmalade 497 

Strawberry  marmalade 498 

Tomato  marmalade 499 

Various  fruit  marmalades  . ..  .497 
Vegetable  marrow  499 

Preserves 505  to  517 

Canned  fruit  for  preserves.  . .  .505 

Cooking  the  fruit 505 

Graining  of  syrup 506 

Hardening  fruit 505 

Keeping  preserves 505 

Syrup  for  preserves 506 

Time  to  boil  fruits 506 

Apple  preserves JiOO 

Apricot  preserves 507,  514 

Barberry  preserves 507 


INDEX. 


647 


JAMS,    JBDDIBS,     BTG.-(Contin- 
ued). 

Bilberry  presen-es 511 

Blackberry  preserves 507 

Cantelope,  preserved 517 

Cherry  preserves 508 

Citron  preserves   508 

Crab  apple  preserves 507 

Cranberry  preserves 509 

'Currant  preserves 508,  509 

Damson  preserves 511 

Dewberry  preserves 508 

Fig  preserves  509 

Ginger  preserves 510 

Gooseberry  preserves 510 

Greengage  preserves  511 

Grape  preserves 510 

Huckleberry  preserves  511 

Lemon  preserves 512,  513 

•Limes,  preserved 513 

Nectarine  preserves  514 

Orange  preserves 513 

IMulberry  preserves 512 

Muskmelon  preserves  512 

Peach  preserves 513,  514 

Pear  preserves 514 

Pineapple  preserves 514 

Plum  preserves 515 

Pumpkin  preserves 515 

Quince  preserves 516 

'Raspberry  preserves 516 

(Strawberry  preserves 515 

'Tomato  figs 509 

Tomato  preserves  516 

Watermelon,  preserved 517 

MEAT'S,     GAME,    POULTRY— 

Ill  to  164 

Baking  meats 112 

Barding 122 

Basting 112 

Boiling  meat 113 

Boning  meat 122 

Braising 120 

Broiling  meat Ill 

Burning  fat 125 

Canning  meat 527,  528 

Cold  meat 125 

Daubing 122 

Drippings 123 

Fats  and  oils 117 

Fat,  to  clarify 118 

Flour,  to  brown 127 

Fricasseeing  116 

Frozen  meat,  to  thaw 125 

Frying !!•"> 

Garnishing  meat 127,  631 

Glazing 122,633 

Gravy,  to  make 125 

Grilling Ill 

Larding 121 

Odor  of  boiling,  to  overcome.  . .  .125 
Meat  pie li">3 


MEATS,     GAME,     POULTRY— 

(Coutinuedj. 

Meat  pies,  dangerous  gases  in. .  .153 

Potted  meat 179 

Preserving  of  meat 135 

Ragouts 116 

Roasting  meat 112 

Salt,  its  action  on  meat 124 

Salt  meat,  to  cook 114 

Sauteing 119,  121 

Steaming 120 

Stewing  meat 114 

Tainted  meat 149 

Thermometers,  use  of 123 

Tough  meat,  to  make  tender 124 

To  Egg  and  Bread-crumb 122 

Washing  meat 124 

Water,  use  of  hard  and  soft 124 

Beef 127  to  135 

A  la  mode 130 

Balls 128 

Cheese 128 

Daube 128 

Beefsteak,  7  recipes 133,  134 

Boiled  dinner  134 

Chipped  beef 128 

Corned  beef 128 

Deviled  beef 128 

Dried  beef 128 

Dried  beef  relish 129 

Filet  of  beef 129 

Frizzled  beef 129 

Hamburg  steak  134 

Heart  to  cook 129 

Hunter's  beef 129 

Kidney's,  to  cook 139 

Liver,  2  recipes 130 

Location  of  parts  in  beef 165 

Minced  beef   134 

Mock  duck 130 

Mock  sausage 135 

Omelet,  beef 130 

Pot  pie  131 

Pot  roast 131 

Pressed  beef 131 

Roast  beef 132 

Roast  ribs  of  beef 132 

Salisbury  steak 133 

Sausage  roll 135 

Spiced  beef  132 

Tongue,  broiled  132 

Tripe 133 

Yorkshire  pudding 132 

Mutton  and  lamb 140  to  143 

Kid.  to  cook 143 

Lamb.  es(^lloped 143 

Lamb's  fry 1C4) 

Lamb,  grilled  143 

Lamb,  log  of 141 

Lamb's  liver,  curried 143 

lianib  pie 141 

Mutton  and  rice 141 

Mutton  and  tomatoes 142 


648 


INDEX. 


MEATS,  GAME,  POULTRY— 
(Coiitinued). 

Muttou,  boiled  140 

Mutton  chops 141 

Mutton  ham 141 

Mutton  patties 141 

Mutton  i)ies 141 

Mutton  rechauffe 142 

Irish  stew   142 

Location  of  parts  in  mutton. .  .168 

Roly  poly 143 

Scrambled  mutton 142 

Scotch  stew 142 

Sheep's  brains 143 

Tongues,  boiled  142 

Pork 141  to  148 

Brawn 148 

Chines  145,  146 

Cooking  of  pork 146 

Cutlets 146 

Fried  salt  pork 147 

Ham,  5  recipes 144,  145 

Head  cheese 148 

Location  of  parts  in  pork 167 

Pig's  feet,  boiled 145 

Pig,  roast 145 

Pork  and  eggs 146 

Pork,  rechauffe 146 

Roast  pork 145 

Salt  pork  dinner 147 

Pork  steaks 146 

(Spare-ribs 145 

Sausages,  to  cook 148 

Souse,  2  recipes 147 

Worst,  pork 148 

Veal 135  to  140 

Breakfast  veal 136 

Calf's  brains 136 

Cheese,  veal 128 

Creamed  veal  136 

(Cutlets,  breaded 136 

Fillet  roast 137 

Liver,  fried 136 

Liver,  stewed 137 

Location  of  parts  of  veal 166 

Mayonnaise 137 

Molded  veal 137 

Old  veal 135 

Pot-pie 137 

Pot-pie  crust 138 

Roast  veal  pie 138 

Scalloped  veal 138 

Smothered  veal  139 

Spiced  veal  139 

Veal  and  ham  pie 138 

Veal  loaf 137 

Veal  stew 139 

Veal  toast 139 

Sweetbreads,  3  recipes 139,  140 

Game 158  to  164 

Garjiishing  for  game 159,  632 

Tainted  game,  to  restore 159 

TVihl  flavor  in,  to  overcome.  . .  .159 


MEATS,  GAME,  POULTRY— 
(Continued). 

Game,  keeping  of 159 

Bear 164 

Black-bird  pie 100 

Buffalo 164 

Cranes  159 

Duck,  wild 160 

Grouse 163 

Herons 159 

Opossum 163 

Partridges   100 

Pigeons,  to  cook ir)9,  160,  161 

Plovers 159,  101 

Prairie  chickens 159,  102 

Quails 159,  102 

Rabbits 103 

Raccoons   164 

Small  birds  162 

Snipes,  to  cook 159,  162 

Squabs 161 

Squirrels 104 

Venison 104 

Woodchucks  104 

Woodcocks 159,  162,  163 

Poultry 148  to  158 

Boned  poultry , 150 

Breakfast  dish,  a   158 

Dressing  for  poultry 150 

Onions,  use  of 149 

Strong  smell,  to  overcome 149 

Stuffing  for  poultry 150,  151 

Tainted  meat 149 

Chicken,  15  recipes 151  to  154 

Ducks 156 

Fowls,  5  recipes 154,  155 

Garnishing,  fowls 149,  632 

To  draw 149 

To  truss  150 

Guinea  fowls  155 

Geese 156 

Giblets 155 

Giblet  gravy 157 

Turkey,  4  recipes 157,  158 

CUTTING    UP   AND    CURING 

MEATS 165  to  175 

Beef,  Hamburg 172 

Parts  in 165 

Spiced  corn  171 

To  corn 171 

To  cure 170 

To  dry 172 

Bladders,  to  prepare 173 

Curing  meat 170 

Hams,  4  recipes 170,  171 

Lamb,  to  cut  up 169 

Lard,  to  keep  sweet 175 

Lard,  to  make 175 

Mutton,  parts  in 108 

Pickle  for  meat 109,  171,  173 

Pig's  feet,  pickle  for 173 

Pork,  cutting  up I(i7 

Pork,  parts  in 107 


INDEX. 


649 


CUTTING  UP  AND  CURING 
iMliJATS— (Coiitiuued). 

Rennet,  to  prepare 173 

Sausages,  to  make 173,  174 

Smoking  meat  171 

Suet 175 

Tallow,  to  clarify 175 

Tongues,  to  cure 172,  173 

Tripe,  to  clean 173 

Veal,  parts  in IGC. 

Venison,  to  cut  up 109 

MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE 

192  to  202 

Butter 193  to  197 

Anchovy 291 

Clarified  or  ghee 194 

'Mustard 291 

Fats,  a  word  about 195 

Rancid 19G 

■Substitutes  for 194,  195 

To  cream 317 

To  keep  hard 197 

To  keep  sweet 193 

To  make  quickly 193 

To  salt  194 

Various  butters 99,  100 

Washing  of 194 

Butterine  194 

Oleomargarine 194 

Cheese 197  to  202 

And  macaroni 200 

Boiled 199 

■Cottage 199 

Cheese  crackers 202 

Cream 199 

Derronshire  cream 199 

Cheese  fondue  200 

Fritters 199 

Home  scallop  200 

Italian  curds 200 

Mode  of  serving 198 

'Parmesan 198 

Polpetti 200 

Potted  201 

Smear  case  201 

'Straws 201 

Rennet  for 198 

Welsh  rarebit 201 

With  potatoes 243 

With  rice 248 

With  toast 201 

Milk 192  to  193 

Buttermilk  193 

Cream,  substitute  for 317 

Canned  or  condensed 192 

Solidified 1{>- 

Sour 193 

Sugar  of 19- 

PASTRY— PIES.  SHORTCAKES, 

TARTS 295  to  314 

Pastry 295  to  314 

Baking  tins  for  pastry 298 


PASTRY— (Continued). 

L utter  for  pastry 297 

Cornmeul  for  pastry 300 

Doroo 300 

Flour  ior  pastry 295 

Gilding  300 

Meringue  300 

Method  of  making  paste 295 

Oven,  the 298 

Paste,  4  recipes  for  making 301 

Principles  involved  in  making. .  .299 

The  two  ci-usts 298 

To  prevent  juice  from   running 

out 209 

Pies,  crust  for,  2  recipes 301 

Time  to  bake 302 

Apple,  (3  recipes  for 302 

Apple  cobbler 309 

Banana   303 

Carrot   303 

Cherry,  3  recipes 303 

Cho-joiate   303 

Coeoannt,   2  recipes 3^3,  304 

Corn-starch    334 

Cream,  4  recipes 304,  305 

Currant 305 

Custard,  3  recipes 3iJ5,  30G 

Date 305 

Elderberrv 30G 

Fi^ai  59 

Fri^-d ■ 306 

Fruit 3;!U 

Gooseberry 306 

Grape 306 

Hash    178 

Hickory-nut 336 

Huckleberry 307 

Lemon,  2  recipes 307 

Mince,  6  recipes oii7,  308 

Orange,  2  recipes 308 

Oyster 91 

Peach 309 

Pear 309 

Pineanplo 309 

Potato   309 

Prune 310 

Pumpkin,  2  recipes 310 

Raisin 310 

Rice 311 

Rhubarb 310 

(Squash 311 

Strawberry 311 

Sweet  potato 310 

Tomato   311 

Transparent 311 

Vinegar 311 

Washington 311 

Shortcakes,  10  recipes 313.  314 

Tarts 306 

Tarts.  7  recipes 312,  313 

PICKLES.     CAl\?rPS.     SOYS, 

SPICED  FRUIT 7:A0  to  549 

Catsup.  15  recipes •"  !:'.  to  548 


650 


INDEX. 


PICKLES,  CATSUPS,  ETC.— 
(Continued). 

Pickles 530  to  544 

A  caution 530 

Alum,  use  of 530 

Brine  for  picliles 531 

Coloring  pickles 530 

Keeping  pickles 531 

Kettle,  the,  to  use 531 

Parboiling 530 

Spices  531 

The  vinegar 530 

Sour  Pickles 531  to  540 

Artichokes 532 

Beans 532 

Beans,  in  salt 583 

Beets 531 

Butternuts 539 

Cabbage 532 

Carrots 532 

Cauliflower 532 

Celery  . . . ." 532 

Cherries 532 

Chili  sauce 539 

Chow  chow  540 

Cucumbers,  G  recipes. 533,  5-34,  535 

Cucumbers,  salted 534 

Corn 533 

Eggs 531 

French  pickles  539 

Gherkins 534 

Jersey  pickles 535 

Lemons 535 

Limes 535 

:Martynias 53G 

Mango r3i),  537 

Mixed  pickles 530 

Mushroom 537 

Mustard G37 

Nasturtium 537 

Onions 538 

Ornamental  picklos 539 

Oysters   53S 

Parsley 538 

Peppers 53S 

Piccalilli 538 

Russia  picklos 539 

Tomato 538,  539 

Turnips 539 

Walnuts   539 

Sweet  Pickles 540  to  544 

Method  of  making 541 

Apples 541 

Beets 541 

^Blackberries   541 

Blueberries    541 

Cabbage 541 

Cantelope 541 

Cauliflower 542 

Cherries 542 

Citron 544 

Crab  apples 541 

Cucumber 542 


PICKLlEiS,  CATSUPS,  ETC.— 
(Continued). 

Sweet  pickles,  figs 542 

Grapes 542 

Peaches 543 

Pears  543 

Pineapple 543 

Plums 542 

Quinces 543 

Raisins 543 

Raspberries   5-11 

Strawberries 541 

Tomato,  3  recipes 543 

Watermelon  rind 544 

Soys,  6  recipes 548,  549 

Spiced  fruit,  11  recipes 544,  545 

PUDDING'S  AND  DUMPLINGS 

315  to  337 

Dumplings,  0  recipes 330,  337 

Pandowdy 337 

Puddings,  baking  of 316 

Boiling  of 310 

Cloth  for 315 

Creaming  butter  for 317 

Steaming  of 316 

Almond 321 

Apple 321 

Apple,  Indian 322 

Berry 322 

Bird's  nest 322 

Black , 322 

Bread,  4  recipes 323 

Bread    crumb  322 

Cake,  3  recipes 323,  324 

California 324 

Canned 324 

Charlotte 324 

Cherry 325 

Chocolate 324 

Christmas 325 

Cocoanut 325 

Corn 229,  326 

Corn-starch 326 

Cottage,  3  recipes 326 

Cracked  wheat 327 

Cracker 326 

Cranberry 326 

Date 327 

Delmonico 327 

Dover 327 

English 327 

Farina 328 

Feather 328 

Fig 328 

Fruit 328,  331 

Ginger  328 

Gold 329 

Gooseberrv 328 

Graham  ." 329,  331 

Hanover  329 

Huckleberry    329 

Iced  strawberry 443 


INDEX. 


651 


PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS— 
(Con  till  ued). 

Pudding,  Indian 329,  330 

Lemon,  2  recipes 330 

Lowell 330 

Minute 330,331 

Nesselrode   442 

Orange 331 

Oxford 331 

Peach,  2  recipes 331 

Plum,  2  recipes 332 

Potato   331 

Princess 332 

Prune 332 

Puff    332 

Queen 332 

Raisin  333 

Raspberry 333 

Ratafia    333 

Rhubarb 333 

Rice,  3  recipes 334,  335 

Roly  poly 334 

Sago  334.335 

Sponge 334 

•Steamed 335 

Suet,  2  recipes 334 

Tapioca,  4  recipes 334,  335 

Whortleberry    335 

Pudding  sauces 317  to  321 

Acid  317 

Berij 31S 

Brown 31S 

Caramel 317 

Caramel  syrup 317 

Cider 31S 

Cream   318 

Cream,  substitute  for 317 

Delicate 31S 

Dutch ....31S 

'Egg 313 

Foaming 31S 

Fruit  juice 319 

Golden 319 

Jelly 310 

Lemon,  3  recipes 319 

Lombard 319 

•Maple 319 

'Maple  sugar 319 

Milk 320 

[Mock  whipped  cream 3oJ 

Molasses 320 

Orange 320 

Pineapple  320 

Plain 320 

Plum,  2  recipes 320 

'Sweet 320 

Vanilla  319,  320 

Vinegar 321 

Whipped  cream  31S 

White 321 

SALADS 203  to  215 

Oils,  to  use 203 

To  fringe  ccloi-y 204 


SALADS— (Continued). 

To  marinate  salads 204 

iSalad  dressings,  9  recipes. .  .204,  206 

Salads,  aguacate 213 

Apple 213 

Asparagus 20U 

Barberry 214 

Beef 211 

Beet  206 

Boiled 200 

Cabbage 200 

Carrot 206 

Cauliflower 206 

Celery   207 

Cheese 212 

Cheese  and  egg 212 

Chervil 208 

Chicken 211 

Chicory   207 

Cold  slaw 206 

Cold  slaw,  dressing  I'or 207 

Crab 212 

Cranberry 214 

Cm-rant  214 

Creamy 207 

Cream  slaw 2  !7 

Cucumber 208 

Dandelion 2G8 

Egg 212 

EDdive 207 

Esearole 207 

Fettieus 208 

Fish   212 

French  fruit 214 

Fruit   213 

Gelatine    210 

Gooseberry 214 

Grape  fruit 214 

Ham 211 

Hot  slaw   207 

In  jelly  209 

Lamb 211 

Lamb's  lettuce 208 

Lemon 214 

Lettuce   208 

Lime 215 

Lobster  212 

Melon 214 

Xut 215 

Okra 20s 

Orange 214 

Oyster  212 

Peppers 208 

Potato  209 

Red  vegetable 210 

Russian 209 

Salmon 213 

Salsify 209 

Sardine  213 

Shrimp 213 

Slaws 200.  207 

Sphiach  '209 

Siring  bean   2<>'. 


652 


INDEX. 


SALADS— (Continued). 

Sweetbread   211 

Swet  potato 210 

Summer 209 

Tomato 219 

Tongue 211 

Various  vegetable 210 

Veal 211 

Walnut 21G 

Water  cress 210 

Watermelon 214 

Winter 210 

SAUCES    FOR    FISH,  SHETvL- 
FISH  AND  MEATS.  .  .95  to  111 

Coloring  for  sauces 9G 

Herbs,  etc 9.5 

Rous,  to  make 97 

Thickening  for  sauces 95 

The    utensils     used     in    making 

sauce 95 

Flavored  vinegars 109,  110 

Anchovy  sauce 99 

Aspic  jelly 98 

Bechamel  sauce 99 

Bordeaux  sauce 9S 

Bread  sauce 98 

Erown  sauce 99 

Butters,  6  recipes 99,  100 

Caper  sauce  100 

Capers,  mock ^ 100 

Cauliflower  sauce 100 

Celery  sauce .100 

Chestnut  sauce 101 

Chutnee  sauce 101 

Cranberry  sauce 102 

■Cream  sauce 101 

Cucumber  sauce  101 

Currant  sauce  101 

Curry  powder 108 

Curry  sauce  102 

Drawn  butter  sauce 99 

Egg  sauce 102 

Fennel  sauce 102 

Fish  sauce 102 

Herb  powder  for  flavorin^^' 108 

Hollandaise  sauce 102 

Horseradish  sauce 102 

Lemon  sauce  103 

Lobster  sauce 103 

Mandram  sauce 103 

Matelote  sauce 103 

Milk  sauce 104 

IMint  sauce 104 

Miss  Maitland's  mayonnaise.  ..  .104 

Mushroom  sauce 104 

Mustard,  4  recipes 194,  105 

Navy  sauce 105 

Nut  sauce 105 

Olive  sauce 105 

Onion  sauce lOo 

0"ster  sauce lOG 

I'ar-.ley  sauce lOG 


SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  ETC.— 
(Continued.) 

Pepper  sauce  lOG 

Pickle  sauce lOli 

Potato  sauce lOG 

Raisin  sauce lOG 

Ragout  powder  109 

Sassafras  powder 109 

Sauce  piquante 100 

Sauce  Robert lOG 

Sauce  supx'eme 107 

Sauce  tartare 107 

Sa:uce  Velonte 107 

Shrimp  sauce lOG 

Tartar  sauce 107 

Tomato  sauce 107 

Walnut  sauce 108 

White  sauce 99 

Worcestershire  sauce 107,  108 

SOUPS 19  to    47 

Broth 24 

Browned  crackers 31 

Caramel  soup 31 

Clarifying  soup  27 

Colorings  for  soup 28 

Croutons '.  . .  .  29 

Egg-balls 31 

Fat,  to  remove  from  soup 22 

Fish  stock 27 

Flavorings 23 

Forcemeat 29 

Hints 24,    27 

Lobster  butter 28 

Noodles 29 

Onions,  use  of 23 

Principles  involved  in  making..   20 

Quenelles 28 

Salt,  to  modify  taste  of 21 

Seasonings 24 

Soup-boquet  30 

Soup-bunch   3t) 

Stock 21.  24,    27 

Suet  dumplings 29 

Tliiekening 30 

Utensils  used  19 

Veal  stock 20 

Virginia  flavoring 31 

Soups,  alma  mata 39 

Almond 32 

Asparagus    32 

Barley 32 

Bean,  3  recipes 32 

Beef  39 

Bisque  of  lobster 45 

Boston  .'. 45 

Bouillon 39 

Cabbage   33 

Carrot 33 

Celery  33 

Chicken 40 

Chicken  and  gumbo 40 

Clam 40 


INDEX. 


653 


SO  U'P  S— (Continued) . 

Clam  chowder 46 

Clear    40 

Salt  codfish  4G 

Canadian  pea  36 

Consomme 41 

Green  corn 33 

Cream  celery 33 

Cucumber 34 

Duchess    41 

Egg 41 

Every-day 41 

Fish 46 

Flemish 34 

Florence 42 

Game 42 

Gumbo 34 

Hotch-potch 42 

Italian 34 

Julienne    35 

Macaroni 37 

Meat  broth 42 

Mocli  bisque  35 

Moclv  turtle 38,    44 

Mullagatawny 43 

Mushroom 35 

Mutton  broth 43 

Noodle 35 

Okra 34 

Onion 36 

Oxtail 43 

Oyster 47 

Palestine 36 

Pea 36 

Potato 37 

Pumpkin 3<) 

Rabbit 44 

Rice 37 

Sago 37 

'Semolina 37 

Spanish 47 

'Tapioca 37 

Tomato 37,    38 

Turkey 44 

Veal 45 

Vegetable  marrow 38 

Vermicelli 37 

Victoria 38 

T\^hite 39 

TABLES 7  to  16 

Nutriment  in  foods 7  to  10 

Table  of  proportions 17 

Time  of  cooking 14  to  16 

Weights  and  measures.  .11  to  13 

THE     TABLE     AND     ITS    AP- 
POINTMENTS  G03  to  611 

VEGETABLES 216  to  1^5 

How  to  boil 217.  210 

Odor  of  boiling,  to  overcome. .  .218 
Principles  involved  in  boiling.  .218 
Time  to  boil 218 


VEGETABLES— (Continued). 

To  restore  their  freshnes.s 220 

Washing  of 219 

Water,     effects     of     different 

kinds    219 

Artich  .kes,  4  recipes 220,  221 

Asparagus,  4  recipes 221,  222 

Beans,  o  recipes 222,  223 

Beets,  3  recipes 223,  224 

Brocoli 226 

Brussels  sprouts,  2  recipes 224 

Cabbage,  5  recipes 224,  225 

Cardoon,  the 221 

Carrots,  2  recipes 227 

Cauliflower,  2  recipes 226 

Celery 227,  228 

Colcannon   225 

Corn,  10  recipes 228,  229 

Cucumbers,  3  recipes 230 

Egg  plant  231 

Endive 231 

Greens 231 

Greens,  beet 224 

Kohlrabi 232 

Lettuce.  2  recipes 232.  233 

Macaroni,  a  recipes 233 

Mushrooms 234  to  2;>6 

Ola-a    236 

Onions,  6  recipes 237,  238 

Odor  of,  to  overcome 237 

To  peel 237 

Spanish 238 

Parsley 240 

Fried   634 

rarsnips,  4  recipes 238.  239 

Peas 239,240 

Potatoes,  a  la  maitre  d'hotel.  . .  .244 

And  eggs  244 

Baked 242 

Balls 242 

Boiled    241 

Boston  chips 243 

Broiled 242 

■Cake 242 

'Creamed 243 

Escalloped  243 

Fried 244 

Frozen 241 

Lyonnaise 244 

Mashed 244 

Puff 245 

Quirled 245 

'Salted 245 

Saratoga 243 

Solaniue,  in  24(; 

iStcw 245 

Stuffed 245 

Turnovers 245 

Warmed  in  grivy 244 

Warmed  over 246 

With  cheese 243 

Pulses,   the 223 

Punutkiiis _'  17 


654 


INDEX. 


VEGETABLES-(Conlinuetl). 

Radishes   24U 

Rice.  4  recipes 24S 

Salsil'y,  3  recipes 249 

Sauerliraut 250 

Sea-lvale 249 

Scotcli-liale 249 

Spaglaetti 233 

Spiuach 25(J 

Squash,  4  recipes 251 

Succotash  220 

Sweet  potatoes,  G  recipes. . .  .246,  247 

Tomatoes,  12  recipes 251  to  254 

Turnips,  3  recipes 254 

Vermicelli  233 

Yams,  2  recipes 254,  255 

VINEGARS 550  to  553 

Aromatic  vinegar 553 

Flavored  vinegars 109,  110 

Mother  of  vinegar 550 

Spiced  vinegar 553 

To  make,  10  recipes 551  to  553 

THE  CHAFING  DISH.  .  .012  to  G21 

Asparagus 019 

Beef,  dried  014 

Beefsteak  and  onions 013 

Beefsteak,  broiled 613 

Beans,  2  recipes 019 

'Calf's  brains,  creamed 014 

Calf's  liver  and  bacon 014 

Cheese  Fondu 021 

Cheese  with  eggs 621 

Chicken  and  oysters 014 

Clams,  creamed 610 

Chops,  lamb  013 

Cod,  salt  creamed 615 

Corn,  canned   619 

■Crabs,  4  recipes 617 

Curry  stew 013 

Eggs 618,  019 

Sauce 015 

English  monkey 021 

Fish,  creamed 015 

With  sauce  piquante 015 

Fowl,  re- warmed  013 

Frogs'  legs 01« 

Game,  re-warmed 013 

Halibut  steaks 015 

Lamb  chops 613 

Lobster 613,  618 

Meats 613  to  616 

Mushrooms,  braised 020 

Omelets   619 

Onions,  fried  619 

Oysters,  6  recipes 616 

Oystex's  and  chicken 614 

Paprica 015 

Pancakes  021 

Peas,  fresh  green 020 

Potatoes,  5  recipes 020 

Potatoes,  sweet 020 

•Sardines 015 


THE     CHAFING     DISH— (Contin- 
ued). 

Sauces  614,  015 

Scallops.  2  recipes 017 

'Shrimps,  2  recipes 017 

Smelts,  fried 017 

Succotash 019 

Sweetbreads,  2  recipes 014 

Tomatoes 620,  021 

Tripe  with  onions 014 

Trout,  brook 016 

Venison  steaks 013 

Whitensh,  boiled 016 

White  sauce 615 

Welsh  rarebit 621 

MEDICAL  AND  TOILET  HINTS 

022  to  633 

Acidity  of  the  stomach 622 

Acids,  burns  from 023 

Alkalies,  burns  from 023 

Asthma 022 

Bandoline 033 

Bites  of  snakes 022 

Black   eye 023 

Black  heads  032 

Blisters 022 

Boils 622 

Breath,  offensive 633 

Bruises 623 

Burns   623 

Bunions • 623 

Cankered  mouth  and  throat 623 

Catarrh 023 

Chaps 623 

Chilblains 623 

Choking   024 

Cholera  infantum 024 

Cholera  morbus 024 

Cold  cream  032 

Colds 023 

Cold  sores 024 

Colic 624 

Corns 024 

Cough  mixture 624 

Cramp 025 

Croup 625 

Cuts 025 

Dandruff 033 

Diarrhoea 625 

Diphtheria 625 

Diphtheretic  sore  throat 025 

Dogwood,  poisoning  from 629 

Dysentery  625 

Earache  625 

Ear,  insects  in 625 

Emetics 626 

Eye,  black 023 

Eye.  foreign  substances  in 026 

Eyes,  inflamed 626 

Eyelitls.  inflamed 626 

Face  powders 632 

Fainting 626 


INDEX. 


655 


MEDICAL  AND   TOILET   HINTS 
— (Continuedj. 

Fatigue G2G 

Felons (520 

Freckles G32 

Frostbites   G2G 

Fruit  laxative  G27 

Grippe,  the  G2G 

Gumboil G27 

Hair,  falling  out 633 

Hair,  to  promote  growth  of GS:] 

Hay  fever G27 

Headache G27 

Heartburn G27 

Hepatic  spots G32 

Hiccough G27 

Hives G27 

Hoarseness   G27 

Hysteria G27 

Insect  in  ear G25 

Itch G28 

Ivy,  poisoning  from G29 

Laxative,  fruit G27 

Liniments G2S 

Mask G32 

Measles G28 

Medicines,  to  remove    nauseous 

taste  of  G22 

Moles G32 

Morphew G32 

•Moth  patches G32 

Mouth,  sore G2S 

Nettle  rash  G2S 

Neuralgia 628 

Nose,  bleding  from 628 


MEDICAL  AND  TOILET   HINTS 
—(Continuedj. 

Nose,  foreign  bodies  in 628 

Nursing  sore  mouth 628 

Offensive  breath 633 

Onions,  to  kill  odor  of 633 

Perspiration,  offensive  632 

Pills,  to  take 622 

Pimples  632 

Poisons,  antidote  for 629 

Powders,  to  take 622 

Prickly  heat 629 

Proud  flesh 629 

Retching 629 

Ringworm 629 

Salt  rheum 629 

Salve 629 

Scalds  623 

Sea  sickness 630 

Sleeplessness 630 

Snakes,  bites  of 622 

Snoring 630 

Sore  throat  (i30 

Sprains (>30 

Sunburn 633 

Suffocation 630 

Swallowing  substances  by   mis- 
take   630 

Tan,  to  remove 633 

Throat,  sore 623,  630 

Tobacco,  to  stop  odor  of G33 

Toilet,  hints 632,  633 

Tooth  powder 632 

Warts  633 

Wounds 625 


SUPPLEMENTARY  INDEX. 


ALBUMEN 20 

Allspice So."! 

Altering  recipes IS 

Arrowroot,  origin,  etc "iSo 

Aspic  jelly 98 

BACTERIA r.lS 

Bain-marie 11") 

Baking  powder  2C,T, 

Barding 122 

Basil,  the 23 

Bay,  the -1"' 

Boiled  dinner 134 

Braising  120 

Brawn 148 

Brioches 27.") 

CANNELONS 343 

Capers ^"2 

Capsicum,  the -"CT 

Caramel 31.  263.  3;  7,  -'.."n 

Caramel,  prepared  ;'•  •• 

Caramel  syrup 317 


Cassava 335 

Caviar 60 

Celery,  to  frin-e 204 

Chervil 208 

Chicory 2<i7.  riG2 

Chive,  the 24 

Cinnamon 348 

Clove,  the  98 

Col)lers  309 

Collops,  Scoti-h 182 

Compotes 48"!  to  487 

CondimoTits 97 

Cooking  in  high  altitudes 308 

Corn-starch  320 

Cottolene 119 

Cotosuet 119 

Cream,  mock  whipped 30)0 

('reaip  of  tartar 3."0 

rreaui.  substitute  for 317 

!  'rontons 29 

Oxirry  powder lo7 


656 


SUPPLEMENTARY  INDEX. 


DATES,  to  prepare  for  cooking. 349 

Daubing  122 

Dextrin 263,  289,  578 

Doree 300 

ELDERBERRY,  tlie 545 

Egg  and  bread  crumbing 122 

Endive 207 

Eschalot,  the  24 

Escarole 207 

FAGGOTS 160 

Fats  and  oils 117 

Fat,  to  clarify 117,  118,  338 

Fennel,  the 102 

Fetticus 208 

Flour,  pastry  347 

Flour,  to  brown 127 

Fondant  451 

Fondue 200 

Forcemeat 29 

GARLIC,  the 43 

Gases  in  meat  pies 153 

Gelatine 20,  427 

Ghee    194 

Gherkins 534 

Gilding 300 

Ginger 560 

Glazing 122,  633 

'HONEY,   artificial 572 

Horseradish,  the 104 

ICELAND  MOSS,  origin,  etc 588 

Intoxicating  liquors,  use  of 18 

Irish  moss,  origin,  etc 588 

Isinglass 427 

KOUFTAS 183 

Kromeskies 182 

LAMB'S  LETTUCE 208 

Larding 121 

Lardoons    121 

Leek,  the 35 

Lemon  peel,  to  grate 358 

Lights,  the  106 

Liquors,  intoxicating 18 

MACE 30 

Macedoines 442 

Maple  syrup,  imitation 283 

Marinade 54 

Marinate,  to 204 

Marjoran,  the lOS 

Meringue ' 300 

Microbes 518 

Mint,  the 104 

Molasses  for  cooking 347,  351 

Mold    4!W) 

Monks-beard 207 

Rc       1  i 


Mousse 443 

Muriatic  acid 350 

Mustard 105 

NASTURTIUM,  the 537 

Nutmeg,  the 412 

OILS 117 

Oleomai-garine 194 

Osmazome 21 

Ossein 21 

PECTOSE 489 

Peppermint 459 

Pilaff 179 

Piping 397 

Pluck,  the 166 

QUENELLES 29 

RAISINE 484 

Raisins  310 

Ragout IIG 

Rennet 198,  410 

Rice 248 

Rocambole,  the 24 

Roux  97 

Rumford,  Count  20 

SAGE,  the 182 

Sago 424 

Saleratus  350 

Salmis 176 

Sal-soda 350 

Sarsaparilla 572 

'Sautering  119,  121 

Shallot,  the 24 

Soda 350 

Solauine 240 

Sorrel,  the 37 

Spaghetti 233,  234 

Spices 97 

'Starch,  cooking  of 326 

Sugar,  use  of  in  cooking 477 

TALLOW,  to  clarify 175 

Tapioca 335 

Tarragon,  the 110 

Theine 556 

Thermometers,  use  of 123 

Thyme,  the 38 

Tonka,  beans  358 

Trichina 144 

VANILLA 357 

Vegetable  marrow 38 

Vegetole 119 

Vermicelli 233,  234 

WAFERS 273 

Wheat,  entire 267 

Williams,  Mattieu 216 

YEAST 203  to  265 

Yorkshire  pudding 132 

ZANTE  CURRANTS 340 

Zest 358 


"•^^n^ 


I' V'^#^x     V  #:  V^^ 


:\ 


•\. 


■)*  ,• 


'.*  *(• 


<^1o.      -.^^  jP.,^_ 


5^  "  \ 


^^■^  "^^  - 


-^^0^ 


0 


-^' 


0     *•' 


v-s 


<^.  ^'--^  ^^ 


* 


i'.   '-^--o^ 


0'  .•'^•,''*° 


C"    . 


\  . 


.f"  . 


,*' 


.0^  .•" 


,-^^  .^ 


"^bv^ 


^^0^ 


^^^ 


-of 


.-iq. 


*  *>• 


<.       *'-••*       A<» 


>v      » 


^v 


^0' 


>bv^    ^^  -^6^    : 


^^-n^. 


^0^     4 

^^^    ^ 


^^  V. 


;.:i 


ST.^GUSTINE  h  '^,^ 

FLA.        .  .     .^ 
32084    ' 


■..V 


•^^    tV  o/)c\    ->>J4iuk'>fc-' 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  012  822  480  4 


