Class    J   /i  /v  (j 


Book 


Jg:3 


Gopyright}^°_ 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT 


s^^^^^ 

^^ 

^OTO^ffi 

1 

i 

B 

1^ 

^fe; 

m 

^ 

^^ 

^^p^ 

^ 

i 

m 

B 

E 

iSSsIS 

^^ 

1 

^^^^ 

m^Mfmif^ 

^H 

M^j- 

i 

^^^ 

^^M^f 

3 

^^ 

raffi^^; 

i 

i 

n 

x^ 

1 

"i 

B 

1 

hv 

".4  mail's  work  is  from  sun  to  sun 
But  a  woman's  work  is  never  done." 


A  PRACTICAL  REFERENCE  WORK  FOR  HOUSEKEEPERS 


THE 


COMPRISING — 

A  COMPLETE  COOK  BOOK— PRACTICAL  HOUSEHOLD 
RECIPES,  AIDS  AND  HINTS  FOR  HOUSEHOLD  DECORATIONS  ; 
THE  CARE  OF  DOMESTIC  PLANTS  AND  ANIMALS  AND  A 
TREATISE  ON  DOMESTIC  MEDICINE 

Including  A  Chapter  ON   J_   1  J  ri  F^  r\  t_^t^  J  I  /C  /lS  I  v^  The  Great  White  Plague 

A  CURABLE  AND  PREVENTABLE  DISEASE 

BY — 

DR.   LAWRENCE    F.   FLICK 

Medical  Director  of  the  Henry  Phipps  Institute  for  the  Study, 
Treatment  and  Prevention  of  Tuberculosis 

GENERAL   EDITORS   OF  THE   WORK 

ALICE  A.   JOHNSON 

Graduate  in  Domestic  Science  of  Drexel  Institute,  Philadelphia 

MRS.   JANET  McKENZIE   HILL 

Editor  of  the  Boston  Cooking  School  Journal 

DR.    HENRY   HARTSHORNE,  M.D.,  LLD. 

Author  of  ^'Essential  of  Practical  Medicine" 

AND  Other  Specialists 

PROFUSELY     ILLUSTRATED 

With  Color   Plates,    Half-Tone 
Engravings  and  Text  Pictures 


THE    UPLIFT    PUBLISHING    CO 

PHILADELPHIA 


COPYRIGHT  1909,  BY 
M.    L.    DEWSNAP 


€CI.A,ciGi=l.98 


INTRODUCTION 


This  volume  is  dedicated  to  the  busy  American  housewife,  in  the 
hope  that  its  use  will  lighten  her  toil  and  prove  to  be  a  trusted  helper  in  the 
numerous  duties  which  she  so  nobly  undertakes. 

We  believe  that  the  pages  of  this  book  which  are  devoted  to  preparing 
appetizing  and  wholesome  dishes  will  be  welcomed  as  a  great  boon  by  many 
thousands  of  women,  whether  they  do  the  work  themselves  or  merely  super- 
vise it.  The  many  recipes  here  compiled  cover  every  variety  of  food  and  are 
easy  to  follow  in  practical  use ;  the  lists  of  ready-made  menus  for  various  kinds 
of  meals  will  often  be  referred  to,  and  this  department  will  be  found  to  con- 
tain valuable  household  recipes,  and  many  general  hints  on  serving  and  table- 
setting  which  distinguish  this  part  of  the  work  from  the  ordinary  cook  book. 

Every  woman  will  gratefully  receive  the  department  of  this  work 
which  suggests  attractive  ways  of  fixing  up  her  home.  In  the  leisure  time 
which  she  may  have,  if  she  makes  good  use  of  this  book,  she  will  take  pleas- 
ure in  planning,  with  its  assistance,  to  try  inexpensive  changes  in  the  house 
and  its  furnishings.  It  is  wonderful  how  a  new  arrangement  of  furniture, 
pictures  or  hangings  freshen  up  a  bedroom  or  living-room  and  adds  to  the 
comfort  of  its  occupants.  This  section  of  the  work  also  indicates  how 
flowers  and  pets  may  be  kept  without  much  trouble  and  with  a  great 
addition  to  the  family  total  of  enjoyment. 

Workmen's  bills  for  little  jobs  about  the  place  are  always  a  considerable 
item  "of  expense  to  the  average  family.  They  can  be  cut  down  greatly  if 
the  woman  or  man  or  boys  of  the  household  learn  how  to  use  a  few  simple 
tools.  It  will  be  well  worth  while  to  study  the  chapters  devoted  to  Practical 
Mechanics  in  this  volume  and  to  put  them  into  practice  whenever  oppor- 
tunity offers.  Nearly  everyone  likes  to  make  or  mend  things  and  this 
instinct,  directed  in  the  proper  way,  will  produce  results  of  lasting  value, 


INTRODUCTION 

The  pleasure  of  life  is  largely  increased  by  a  recognition  of  the  customs 
prevalent  in  polished  and  cultivated  society  and  the  laws  of  etiquette 
become  important  to  all  who  have  to  meet  others  in  social  intercourse  or  in 
business  relations.  Nor  is  this  department  without  practical  benefits,  for 
it  is  generally  conceded  that  politeness  makes  many  a  hard  thing  more 
easily  obtained  and  is  greatly  instrumental  in  winning  friendships  w^hich 
are  of  real  worth. 

It  is  intended  to  enable  her  to  guard  her  loved  ones  from  the  menace 
of  diseases  which  lie  in  wait  on  every  hand  in  daily  life ;  to  assist  her  in  bind- 
ing up  the  wounds  of  accidental  injuries  quickly  and  correctly  so  as  to  save 
many  a  case  from  resulting  seriously  or  even  fatally  through  otherwise 
unavoidable  neglect  and  delay;  to  show  her  how  to  nurse  the  invalid  or 
bed-ridden  so  that  a  speedy  restoration  to  health  may  follow ;  and  how  to 
take  care  of  her  own  precious  health  and  her  personal  charms  as  nature 
intended  them  to  be  cared  for. 

The  Publishers. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


BOOK   I. 

THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


PAGE 

The  Art  of  Cooking 19 

Soups  and  Their  Preparation 20 

Fish 24 

Shell  Fish 27 

Poultry  and  Game  Birds 30 

Meats ;i^ 

Beef 35 

Mutton 38 

Pork 39 

Hashes  and  Sandwiches 41 

Eggs 42 

Vegetables  and  Their  Preparation  ....  43 

Milk  and  Cheese 49 

Sauces  and  Salads 50 

Bread,  Biscuit  and  Pastry 50 

Griddle  Cakes 55 

Cereals 56 

Cakes  and  Cake-making 56 

Custards  and  Cream 60 


PAGE 

Puddings  and  Sauces 61 

Pies  and  Pastry 64. 

Jellies,  Jams,  Etc 66 

Ices  and  Ice  Cream 68 

Pickles  and  Salads 69 

Candies  and  Confections 73 

Beverages 74 

Dishes  for  the  Sick 75 

Menus  for  Various  Occasions.. 76 

Table-setting  and  Serving 79 

Cuts  of  Meats  and  Their  Uses 81 

Outside  the  Kitchen 82 

Household  Utilities 86 

Laundry  Work 90 

Recipes  for  Cleaning 92 

Household  Pests 94 

Other  Recipes 95 

Brief  Recipes  for  Housekeepers 96 


BOOK    II. 

HOME  DECORATIONS 


How  to  make  Attractive  Home  Deco- 
rations    99 

A  Rustic  Rug 99 

A  Simple  Wardrobe 99 

Bookcase 99 

Mantelpiece 100 

Screen 100 

Window  Draperies 100 

Mirrors 100 

Sofa  Pillows 100 

Ornamentation  of  Bedrooms 100 

Living-Room 10 1 

The  Convenient  Kitchen loi 

Window  Gardens • 10 1 


Decorations    for    Public    and    Festive 

Occasions 102 

Wedding  Occasions 102 

Decorating  the  Table 102 

Fancy  Work  for  Leisure  Hours 102 

Embroidery 102 

Stitches 103 

Things  to  Embroider 103 

Crocheting 103 

Knitting 103 

Decalcomanie 103 

Potpourri 104 

Wax  Flowers 104 

Flower  and  Fruit  Molds _•  105 

xi 


Xll 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Phantom  Leaves 105 

Autumn  Leaves  and  Ferns 105 

China  Painting 106 

Amateur  Photography 106 

Screens 106 

Care  of  Domestic  Animals  and  Plants. .  106 

The  Canary  Bird 106 

Care  of  Canaries 107 

The  Mocking  Bird 108 

Other  Song  Birds 108 

Parrots 108 

Pigeons 109 


PAGE 

Rabbits no 

The  Belgian  Hare m 

Other  Animal  Pets in 

The  Aquarium m 

House  Plants  and  Flowers 112 

Geraniums 112 

Sweet  Pea 112 

Azalea 112 

Hyacinths  and  Tulips 113 

Pansies 113 

Verbenas  and  Petunias 113 

The  Lily  and  the  Rose 113 


BOOK  III. 

PRACTICAL    MECHANICS 


Broken  Window,  How  to  Mend 117 

Knowledge  Must  be  Paid  For 118 

Carpentry  Most  Desirable 118 

Bricklaying  and  Masonry 118 

Excavating 118 

Kinds  and  Prices  of  Materials 119 

Working  Drawings 119 

Woods    Generally    Used   in    Ordinary 

Carpentering 119 

Strength  and  Breaking  Strain 121 

Tools  Used  in  Carpentry 121 

The  Divisions  of  the  Building  Trade...  126 

Work  in  Metals 127 

Decorative  Work 127 

Practical  Points  in  Excavating 128 

Making  Good  Concrete 128 

Bricklaying 129 

Soldering  and  Brazing 130 

Indoor  and  Outdoor  Painting 131 

Varnishes,    and    Recipes    for    Making 

Varnishes 133 

Polishing,  and  Recipes  for  Polishing. .  134 

Paper  Hanging 134 

Bells  and  Telephones 138 

Facts    and    Figures    for    Every    Day 

Use. , ,..,,., 142 


Shingles 142 

Clap-Boards 142 

Painting 142 

Stone  Work 143 

Concrete  Walls 143 

Plastering 143 

Brick- Work 143 

Slating 144 

Average  Weight  of  Animals 144 

Average    Number  of    Cubic    Feet  per 
Ton    of    Various    Substances    for 

Estimating  Work  or  Stowage.  ...  145 

Workshop  Recipes 145 

Engines  and  Boilers 147 

For  Steam  Heating  of  Houses 148 

How  to  Thaw  Out  a  Frozen  Steam- 
Pipe  149 

Suggestion     for     Hot-water     Heating 

System 149 

A  Cheap  Filter 149 

Tables  of  .Measure  and  Weight 149 

The  Metric  System 150' 

Miscellaneous  Tables 151 

Mensuration;  or,     Useful     Rules     for 

Computing  Measurements 152 

Lumber  and  its  Measurements 152 


TABLE   OF  CONTENTS 


Xlll 


BOOK   IV. 


THE  HOME   BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


PAGE 

General  Principles  of  Good  Manners  ...  155 

The  Art  of  Conversation 155 

Avoid  Heated  Argument 156 

Consider  the  Feelings  of  Others 156 

Care  in  the  Use  of  Witticisms 157 

All  can  be  Agreeable 157 

Avoid  Referring  to  Your  Own  Exploits  157 

Other  Rules  Worth  Observing 158 

A  Winning  Manner 158 

Principles  of  Politeness 159 

Good  Breeding 159 

The  Demeanor  of  a  Lady 160 

Incivilities  to  be  Avoided 161 

Flirtation 161 

Demeanor  of  a  Gentleman 162 

What    Constitues    Gentlemanly   Man- 
ners   162 

The  Demands  of  Etiquette 163 

Etiquette  of  Travel 163 

The  Art  of  Dress 164 

A  Well  Dressed  Woman 164 

Dress  for  Various  Occasions 164 

Suitability  of  Apparel 165 

Public  Occasions 165 

Jewelry 166 

Traveling  Dress 166 

A  Well  Dressed  Man 166 

Appropriate  Costume 167 

The  Shirt  Waist 168 

Introductions 168 

The  Introducer's  Formula 169 

Salutations 170 

Calls,  Formal  and  Informal 170 

Ending  a  Call 171 

Visiting  and  Visitors 172 

Evening  Calls 172 

Entertaining  Guests 173 

Bidding  Guests  Adieu 173 

Engraved  or  Printed  Cards 174 

Rules  for  Leaving  Cards 174 

Balls  and  Evening  Parties 175 

Subscription  Dances 176 

The  Dressing  Room 176 

The  Question  of  Toilette 177 

In  the  Bail-Room 177 

Requests  to  Dance 178 

In  the  Dance 178 


PAGE 

Taking  Supper 179 

After  the  Ball 179 

Breakfast,  Luncheon  and  Tea 179 

Luncheon 180 

Teas  and  Afternoon  Receptions 180 

Suppers 181 

Picnics 181 

Theatre  Parties 181 

Chaperons .' 182 

Banquets  and  Dinners 182 

Choosing  Guests .    182 

Duties  of  the  Hostess 183 

Arranging  the  Table 183 

Placing  the  Table-ware 184 

Dress 184 

Entering  the  Dining  Room 184 

The  Dinner 185 

Dinner  Courses 185 

After  the  Courses 186 

Retiring  from  the  Table 186 

General  Hints 187 

Wines 187 

Dinners  at  Restaurants 187 

Courtship  and  Marriage 188 

Wedding  Preliminaries 189 

Bridal  Gifts 189 

Flowers 190 

The  Bridesmaids 190 

The  Groomsmen 190 

The  Bride 191 

The  Ceremony 191 

The  Wedding  Breakfast 191 

A  House  Wedding 192 

Sending  Cards 192 

Funeral  Etiquette 193 

The  House  Services 193 

Flowers 194 

Mourning 194 

Anniversary  and  Other  Occasions.  .  .  .    195 

Gifts  and  Invitations 195 

Christenings 196 

Private  Theatricals 196 

Etiquette  for  General  Occasions 197 

Etiquette  of  the  Household 197 

Table  Manners 197 

Etiquette  of  the  Street 198 

In  the  Electric  Car 198 


XIV 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Etiquette  of  Business 199 

Etiquette  of  the  Club 199 

Etiquette  of  Traveling 199 

Table  Etiquette  for  Children 200 

Forms  of  Invitations 201 

Invitations  to  Parties 201 

Dinner  Invitations 202 

Small  Entertainments 203 

Form  of  English  Invitations 203 

Wedding   Invitations 203 

General  Invitations 204 

Art  of  Letter  Writing 205 

Style  in  Correspondence 205 

Forms  of  Address 206 

Letters  of  Recommendation 207 

Letters  of  Introduction 207 

Letters  of   Congratulation  or  Condo- 
lence   208 

Replying  to  Letters 209 

Punctuation 209 

Postscripts 210 

Forms  of  Correspondence 210 

Ordering  Goods 210 

Application  for  a  Situation  as  Teacher  .  210 
Introducing   a  Young    Lady    Seeking 

Employment 210 

Introducing  a  Friend 211 

Short  Form  of  Introduction 211 

Congratulating  a  Gentleman  Upon  His 

Marriage 211 


PAGE 

Congratulating  a  Young  Lady  Upon 

Her  Marriage 211 

A  Letter  Sent  with  a  Gift 211 

The  Reply 211 

Soliciting  a  Loan  from  a  Friend 212 

In  Answer  Declining,  on  Account  of 

Incapability 212 

A  Letter  to  a  Friend  (on  the  Anniver- 
sary of  His  Birthday) 212 

Reply  to  the  Above 212 

Requesting    a    Friend    to    Execute    a 

Commission 212 

Application    for    Subscription    to    a 

Charity 213 

Letters  of  Application 213 

Application  for  Position  of  Salesman 

and  Collector 213 

Requesting  the  Settlement  of  an  Ac- 
count    213 

A  Demand  for  Payment  of  Rent 213 

Introducing  a  Young  Man  Seeking  a 

Position 214 

Social  Letters 214 

From   Charles   Dickens    to   James   T. 

Fields 215 

From  Charles  Sumner  on  Leaving  for 

Europe,  to  His  Ten-year  Old  Sister  2 1 5 

Etiquette  of  Beauty 216 

How  to  Grow  Old  Gracefully 216 

Care  of  the  Bodv 216 


BOOK  v.— Part  I. 

TUBERCULOSIS 

A   CURABLE   AND   PREVENTABLE   DISEASE 
By  dr.   LAWRENCE  F.  FLICK 

Medical  Director  of  the  Henry  Phipps  Institute  for  the  Study,  Cure  and  Prevention  of  Tuberculosis 


The  Microscopic  World 231 

What  Consumption  Is 231 

What  Tuberculosis  Is 231 

Distinction  Between  Consumption  and 

Tuberculosis 232 

Recurrence  of  Tuberculosis 233 

Colds,    Influenza   and    Pneumonia    in 

Relation  to  Tuberculosis 233 

History  of  Consumption 233 

How  Tuberculosis  Got  into  the  World. .  233 

Is  Tuberculosis  Inherited 234 

Predisposition  to  Tuberculosis. . , 234 


Diseases    as    Predisposing    Causes    of 

Consumption 235 

Dissipation  as  a  Predisposing  Cause ...    235 
Want  and  Overwork  as  Predisposing 

Causes 235 

Alcohol  in  Tuberculosis 236 

Climate  in  Tuberculosis 236 

Immunity  in  Tuberculosis 237 

Contagiousness  of  Tuberculosis 237 

Mode  of  Contagion  of  Tuberculosis ....    237 

How  Contagion  can  be  Prevented 237 

Consumption  a  House  Disease ........    238 


TABLE  OF    CONTENTS 


XV 


PA«E 

Hotels  and  Boarding  Houses  as  Means 

of  Spreading  Tuberculosis 238 

Servants  and  Employees  as  Means  of 

Spreading  Tuberculosis 238 

Contracting  Tuberculosis  in  the  School 

Room 238 

Contracting  Tuberculosis  in  Churches 

and  Public  Places 239 

Contracting    Tuberciilosis    in    Public 

Conveyances 239 

Getting  Tuberculosis  on  the  Street ....    239 

Relationship  Between  Human  and  Bo- 
vine Tuberculosis 239 

How  the  Tubercle    Bacillus  gets  into 

the  System 239 

Duration  of  Tuberculosis 239 

Tuberculosis  —a  Curable  Disease 240 

Remedies  for  Tuberculosis 240 


PAGE 

Food  in  the  Treatment  of  Tuberculosis.   240 
Fresh  Air  in  the  Treatment  of  Tuber- 
culosis      240 

Rest  and  Exercise  in  the  Treatment  of 

Tuberculosis 241 

Slowness  of  Recovery  from  Tubercu- 

closis 241 

Preventability  of  Tuberculosis 241 

The  Consumptive  Protects  Himself  by 

Protecting  Others 241 

The  Government  in  the  Prevention  of 

Tuberculosis 242 

Humane  Isolation  of  Advanced  Con- 
sumptives     242 

Groundless  Fear  of  Consumption 242 

Should  Consumptives  Marry? 243 

Should      the    Consumptive      Mother 

Suckle  Her  Child? 243 


BOOK  v.— Part   II. 

THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


What  is  Disease 241 

Nature  of  Diseases 250 

General  Disorders 253 

Classification  of  Diseases 255 

Remedies  and  Their  Application 263 

Principal  Medicine  and  Other  Reme- 
dies      281 

Doses  of  Principal  Medicines 305 

Nursing  and  Care  of  the  Sick 308 

The  Sick-Room 309 

The  Sick-Bed    310 

Sick  Garments 311 

Washing  and  Bathing 312 

Food  for  the  Sick 313 

Giving  Medicines 317 

Poisons  and  Their  Antidotes 328 

Infancy  and  Childhood 332 

Clothing  Infants 334 

Sleep  for  Children 335 

Teething 336 

Why  Babies  Cry 337 

What  Teething  Is 337 

Summer  Dangers 338 


Rules  for  Management  of  Infants 338 

Rules  for  Diet  of  Infants 339 

Weaning  the  Infants 339 

The  Laws  of  Hygiene 340 

Diseases  Due  to  Impure  Water 342 

Purification  of  Water 343 

Diseases  Due  to  Impure  Food 343 

Infectious  Diseases 345 

Contagious  Diseases 347 

How  to  Avoid  Disease 348 

Muscular  Exercise 348 

Modes  of  Exercise 349 

Clothing 350 

How  to  Live  Long 351 

Value  of  Vegetable  and  Animal  Food  . .    352 

Bread 352 

Vegetables 353 

Fruits 354 

Eggs 354 

Meats 354 

Time-table  for  the  Housekeeper 356 

The  Homeopathic  Treatment 357 


BOOK  I. 

THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 

This  is  a  complete  guide  in  all  the  duties  of  the  kitchen,  containing 
general  instructions  on  the  care  of  the  fire  and  cooking.  It  also  tells  how 
to  prepare  all  the  different  classes  of  dishes,  such  as  soups,  fish,  poultry,  meats, 
eggs,  vegetables,  sauces,  breads,  cakes  and  desserts,  so  that  the  most  inex- 
perienced can  provide  appetizing  food,  and  the  best  housekeeper  can  find 
very  many  helpful  hints.  In  addition,  it  contains  exact  recipes  for 
making  all  kinds  of  dishes,  and  offers  sample  menus  for  various  occasions. 
The  suggestions  on  table-setting  and  serving,  explanations  of  the  different 
cuts  of  meats,  and  the  valuable  advice  on  the  care  of  the  house,  together 
with  practical  household  recipes  which  are  included,  make  this  department 
of  the  work  alone  an  everyday  necessity  in  every  home. 


The  Model  Cook  Book 

THE  ART  OF   COOKING— THE    PREPARATION    OF  FOOD— RECIPES 
FOR  COOKING   SOUPS,    MEATS   AND   VEGETABLES— FOR 
MAKING    BREAD,   PASTRY,    CONFECTIONS;    OTHER 
VALUABLE   RECIPES   FOR   THE    HOUSE- 
KEEPERS* NEEDS 


THE  ART  OF  COOKING 


The  section  of  the  house  which  is  most 
rarely  seen  by  the  visitor  is  the  one  which  is 
most  necessary  to  his  comfort  and  that  of 
the  family.  While  the  drawing-room,  the 
library,  the  dining-room,  and  other  apart- 
ments contribute  their  share  to  the  enjoy- 
ment of  life,  the  kitchen  and  its  products 
are  essential  to  existence  itself.  Whatever, 
therefore,  it  may  be  felt  important  to  say 
about  the  arrangement  and  adornment  of 
the  rooms  most  in  evidence  in  the  well- 
ordered  household,  in  all  accounts  of  family 
life  a  large  space  needs  to  be  devoted  to  the 
kitchen,  that  reservoir  from  which  flows  an 
endless  succession  of  palatable  viands,  which 
have  much  to  do  with  making  life  worth 
living.  Of  the  time  at  our  command  a  con- 
siderable portion  is  spent  at  the  table  ;  eating 
and  drinking  occupy  a  large  place  in  our 
thoughts,  and,  while  conscious  that  we  must 
eat  to  live,  we  do  our  utmost  to  make  the 
act  of  eating  one  of  the  chief  enjoyments  of 
Hfe. 

J  For  this  the  art  of  the  cook  is  all  essen- 
tial. Nature  offers  us  a  great  variety  of 
foods,  and  man  has  learned  how  to  combine 
and  develop  these  into  hundreds  of  palatabi'^ 
dishes.  They  can  be  spoiled ;  nothing  is 
more  easy.  They  can  be  rendered  unnutri- 
tious  and  distasteful  by  careless  or  ignorant 
handling.     On  the  other  hand,  by  t^^e  exer- 


19 


cise  of  skill  and  care,  they  can  be  made 
nutritious,  toothsome,  often  delightful  to 
the  palate,  and  the  task  of  sustaining  life 
can  be  converted  into  one  of  the  leading 
pleasures  of  existence.  How  this  may  be 
done  it  is  proposed  to  show  in  the  following 
pages,  by  giving  a  collection  of  practical 
recipes  for  the  preparation  of  food.  In  this 
it  has  been  our  purpose  to  combine  economy 
with  palatableness.  Many  of  the  recipes 
given  in  cook-books  are  so  lavish  in  the  use 
of  butter,  eggs,  and  other  costly  ingredients 
as  to  place  them  beyond  the  reach  of  ordi- 
nary families.  This  we  have  endeavored  to 
avoid,  and  have  also  taken  care  to  submit 
all  our  recipes  to  the  inspection  of  expe- 
rienced housewives,  giving  none  which  have 
not  received  the  verdict  of  approval. 

Man  is  omnivorous  in  appetite.  He  is 
at  once  a  carnivorous  and  a  herbivorous 
animal.  A  due  combination  of  meats  and 
vegetables  forms  the  basis  of  our  meals; 
followed,  when  appetite  is  stayed,  with  deli- 
cate and  tasteful  viands,  in  which  all  the  art 
of  the  cook  is  enlisted  to  make  them  deli- 
cious. In  ordinary  dinner  service  it  is  cus- 
tomary to  begin  with  soup,  and  follow  with 
fish,  meats  or  game,  accompanied  with  vege- 
tables, and  proceed  to  a  dessert  of  pies  or 
puddings,  cake,  fruit,  and  other  stays  to  the 
failing  appetite.     In  arranging  our  recipes 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOlt 


we  have  followed  in  general  this  order,  be- 
ginning with  soups  and  proceeding  through 
the  solid  courses  to  the  dessert. 

The  Kitchen  Fire. 

To  make  a  fire  in  a  stove  or  range,  take 
off  the  covers,  brush  out  the  ashes  and 
knock  all  clinkers  from  the  sides  of  the  fire 
box.  Open  all  the  dampers.  Bring  shav- 
ings or  paper,  wood  and  coal.  Cover  the 
grate  with  shavings  or  loosely  crumpled 
pieces  of  paper.  L,ay  in  crosswise  small 
pieces  of  wood,  and  on  top  of  these  larger 
pieces,  being  careful  to  fill  all  the  corners 
of  the  fire  box.  Leave  spaces  between  for 
the  passage  of  air,  and  light  the  fire  from 
underneath. 

When  the  wood  begins  to  burn  put  on 
coal,  pressing  the  wood  down  to  the  grate. 
Add  more  coal  after  the  first  supply  kindles. 
As  soon  as  the  fire  burns  freely  close  the 
back  damper,  and  when  the  oven  is  hot 
close  the  front  damper.  Never  allow  the 
coal  to  come  above  the  edge  of  the  fire  box. 

Every  stove  or  range  has,  at  least,  two 
dampers  ;  one  to  allow  the  air  to  pass  up 
through  the  fire,  -another  to  allow  the  gas  to 
escape  up  the  chimney  and  to  complete  the 
circulation  of  air.  When  the  oven  is  to  be 
used,  the  dampers  should  be  so  regulated  as 
to  allow  the  heated  air  to  pass  around  the 
oven. 

In  making  a  fire  one  thing  should  be 
borne  strictly  in  mind.  Never  pour  coal-oil 
on  the  kindling  to  make  it  burn  more  freely 
or  on  the  fire  to  give  it  new  life.  If  you 
have  it  in  view  to  do  this  you  had  better 
take  poison  at  once,  and  avoid  the  more 
painful  suicide  of  burning  to  death,  which 
has  been  the  fate  of  so  many  who  had  the 
habit  of  using  this  dangerous  material. 

To  keep  the  fire  over  night,  close  the 
front  damper  and  leave  the  back  one  partly 
open  ;  put  on  fresh  coal  and  after  it  has 
kindled  open  the  cooling  doors  to  admit  cold 
air  over  the  fire. 

The  stove  is  blackened  to  make  it  look 
well,  to  prevent  it  from  rusting  and  to  keep 
in  the  heat.  Moisten  the  blacking  with 
warm  or  cold  water,  making  a  paste  about 
as  thick  as  cream.  Rub  this  over  the  stove 
while  it  is  cold  and  polish  with  a  soft  brush 
after  the  fire  is  kindled. 


20 


Soups  and  Their  Preparation. 

In  making  soup  uncooked  meat  should 
always  serve  a^  the  basic  element.  Cracked 
bones  of  cooked  game  or  of  rare  beef  and 
mutton  may  be  added  if  desired,  but  the 
juices  derived  from  raw  meat  can  alone  be 
depended  upon  for  nourishment  and  flavor. 
The  meat  should  be  chopped  fine,  and  then 
placed  in  cold  water  and  allowed  to  soak  for 
some  time.  If  bones  are  used  they  should 
be  thoroughly  fractured.  Heat  should  next 
be  gradually  applied  and  the  water  slowly 
brought  to  a  boil.  At  no  stage  must  it  be 
allowed  to  boil  fast.  Salt  has  a  tendency 
to  harden  the  fibres  and  check  the  flow 
of  the  juices,  and  therefore  should  not 
be  added  till  the  meat  is  thoroughly  done. 
While  boiling,  keep  the  pot  covered.  When 
done,  strain  through  a  cullender  ;  and  after- 
wards, for  clear  soup,  through  a  hair  sieve, 
or  coarse  bobbinet  lace. 

Let  the  tureen  be  kept  covered  until  you 
are  ready  to  serve  the  soup  ;  then  ladle  it 
out  quickly  and  neatly,  having  the  soup- 
plates  warmed  in  advance.  In  most  cases 
soup  is  better  on  the  second  than  on  the 
first  day  ;  but  it  should  not  be  warmed  over 
too  quickly,  or  left  too  long  upon  the  fire 
after  heating.  . 

If  the  object  be  to  obtain  stock  for  soup, 
boiling  must  be  kept  up  for  some  time,  so 
as  to  obtain  from  the  meat  all  its  gelatine, 
so  far  as  possible.  The  hardened  albumin- 
ous matter  which  floats  in  the  liquid  can  be 
removed  by  straining,  so  as  to  leave  the 
soup  clear.  There  will  remain  in  the  vessel 
a  dry  fibrous  mass  without  taste  and  of  little 
nutritive  value. 

Soup  is  often  looked  upon  as  a  light 
kind  of  food — useful  only  as  a  preliminary 
to  other  foods  ;  but  in  many  countries  it  is 
the  staple  article  of  diet.  There  is  no  better 
way  of  economizing  food.  All  the  waste 
fragments  of  the  table  may  be  made  avail- 
able in  this  way.  The  French  peasant  has 
his  '•'  pot-au-feu^''  always  ready  to  receive 
anything  from  which  nutriment  can  be 
extracted,  and  makes  his  soup,  with  the 
addition  of  bread-  his  main  sustenance. 

Soups  may  be  made  alike  from  meats 
and  vegetables,  from  shell-fish  and  game, 
and  are  capable  of  being  very  widely  varied. 


Rolled  Rib  Roast  with  Riced  Potatoes 


PRACTICAL  DIRECTIONS 
Remove  the  bones  from  a  rib  roast  and  skewer  the  meat  into  a  round  shape  ;  dredge 
with  flour  and  set  on  a  rack  in  dripping  pan,  into  a  hot  oven.  When  the  outside  of  the 
meat  is  seared  over,  add  a  little  drippings  melted  in  hot  water  ;  reduce  the  temperature  of 
the  oven  and  bake,  (weight  from  six  to  eight  pounds)  from  sixty  to  ninety  minutes. 
Baste  often  with  the  drippings  in  the  pan  and  dredge  with  flour  after  each  basting ;  add 
salt  to  the  flour  when  half  cooked.  When  cooled  substitute  silver  skewers  for  those  used 
in  the  oven.  Garnish  with  a  stem  of  watercress  and  surround  with  Riced  Potatoes.  Pass 
through  a  ricer  about  eight  hot  boiled  potatoes  ;  add  three  tablespoon fuls  of  butter,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  about  half  a  cup  of  hot  milk  or  cream,  beat  thoroughly  with 
Verforated  cake  spoon,  and  pass  through  the  ricer,  or  vegetable  press,  around  the  meat. 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


We  give  below  recipes  for  preparing  some 
of  the  more  desirable  kinds  : 

Beet  Soup. — Select  a  shin  of  beef  of  five 
or  six  pounds'  weight,  crack  the  bone, 
thoroughly  wash  and  place  it  in  a  kettle  to 
boil,  with  five  or  six  quarts  of  cold  water. 
Let  it  boil  very  slowly  for  about  six  hours. 
In  this  way  the  stock  is  prepared,  which 
may  be  set  away  for  use  the  next  day.  Set 
it  on  an  hour  before  dinner,  add  salt  and 
pepper,  and  one  carrot,  two  turnips,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  rice  or  pearl  barley,  one 
head  of  celery  and  a  teaspoonful  of  summer 
savory  powdered  fine  ;  the  vegetables  to  be 
minced  up  in  small  pieces.  After  these  in- 
gredients have  boiled  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
put  in  two  potatoes  cut  up  in  small  pieces  ; 
let  it  boil  half  an  hour  longer,  take  the  meat 
from  the  soup,  and,  if  intended  to  be  served 
with  it,  take  out  the  bones  and  lay  it  closely 
and  neatlj'  on  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  sprigs 
of  parsley. 

The  seasoning  of  this  soup  is  a  matter  of 
taste.  Some  use  only  salt  and  pepper,  others 
put  in  a  little  mace  and  some  small  herbs. 
Serve  very  hot. 

To  make  a  simpler  stock  omit  the  spices 
and  herbs,  also  the  vegetables. 

Veal  Soup. — Put  a  three-pound  knuckle 
of  veal  into  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  with 
salt  and  one  small  tablespoonful  of  uncooked 
rice.  Boil  slowly  for  three  hours,  or  until 
the  liquor  is  reduced  to  half  its  original 
quantity ;  remove  from  the  fire.  Into  the 
tureen  put  the  yolk  of  one  ^%z^  and  stir  in  a 
teacup ful  of  cream,  or  new  milk  ;  add  a  small 
piece  of  butter;  on  this  strain  the  soup, 
boiling  hot,  stirring  it  all  the  time. 

Chicken  Cream  Soup. — Take  two  young 
or  one  full-grown  chicken.  Cut  it  into  pieces 
and  put  these  into  a  soup  kettle  with  half  a 
pound  of  ham,  and  an  onion ;  add  four 
quarts  of  cold  water.  Bring  slowly  to  a 
gentle  boil ,  and  keep  this  up  until  the  liquid 
has  diminished  one- third,  and  the  meat 
drops  from  the  bones  ;  then  add  half  a  cup 
of  rice.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
bunch  of  chopped  parsley. 

Cook  slowly  until  the  rice  is  tender,  then 
the  meat  should  be  taken  out.  Now,  stir 
in  two  cups  of  rich  milk  thickened  with  a 


little  flour.  A  chicken  at  least  a  year  old  is 
better  for  soup  than  a  younger  fowl. 

Mutton   or    Lamb   Broth Take  four 

pounds  of  lean  mutton  or  lamb,  and  cut  into 
small  pieces,  which  boil  slowly  in  a  gallon 
of  water,  in  a  covered  vessel,  for  two  hours. 
Soak  a  half  teacupful  of  rice  in  enough 
warm  water  to  cover  it,  and  add  to  the  boil- 
ing soup.  Cook  another  hour,  stirring  from 
time  to  time,  to  keep  the  rice  from  settling 
to  the  bottom. 

Beat  an  ^^■g  to  a  froth,  and  stir  into  it  a 
cup  of  milk,  into  which  has  been  rubbed  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour.  Mix  with  this  a  little 
of  the  hot  liquid,  until  the  &%%  is  cooled 
sufiBciently  to  prevent  danger  of  curdling. 
Then,  after  taking  out  the  meat,  pour  this 
into  the  pot,  season  with  parsley,  thyme, 
salt  and  pepper  ;  let  boil  and  serve. 

This  soup  is  nutritious  and  palatable  for 
the  sick  with  the  rice  left  in.  When  strained 
it  makes  an  excellent  white  table  soup. 

Mock  Turtle  or   Calf's  Head  Soup.— 

Scald  a  well-cleaned  calf's  head,  remove  the 
brain,  and  boil  the  head  until  the  meat  will 
easily  slip  from  the  bone.  Then  take  out 
the  head  ;  cut  it  in  small,  square  pieces,  and 
throw  them  into  cold  water ;  when  cool,  put 
it  into  a  stewpan,  and  cover  with  some  of 
the  broth  ;  boil  until  quite  tender,  set  aside. 

In  another  stewpan  melt  some  butter, 
and  in  it  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean 
ham,  cut  small,  with  herbs,  also  parsley  and 
one  onion  ;  add  about  a  pint  of  the  broth  ; 
let  it  simmer  for  two  hours,  and  then  dredge 
in  a  small  quantity  of  flour ;  add  the  re- 
mainder of  the  broth,  and  a  glass  and  a  half 
of  Madeira  or  Sherry  wine ;  let  all  stew 
quietly  for  ten  minutes  and  rub  it  through  a 
mediumsieve ;  add thecalf'shead,season  with 
a  very  little  cayenne  pepper  and  a  little  salt. 

Having  previously  prepared  force-meat 
balls,  add  them  to  the  soup,  and  serve  hot. 
Serve  with  sliced  lemon,  which  may  be  laid 
on  top  of  the  soup,  or  passed  separately. 

Force-rieat  Balls  for  Soup. — The  force- 
meat balls,  mentioned  in  the  preceding  re- 
cipe, may  be  thus  made.  Take  one  cupful 
of  cooked  veal  or  fowl  meat,  minced  ;  mix 
with  this  a  handful  of  fine  bread-crumbs, 
and   the    yolks   of   four   hard-boiled    eggs 


21 


THE  MODEL  COOtC  BOOK 


rubbed  smooth  together  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  milk  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt ; 
add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  finish 
with  two  beaten  eggs  ;  the  hands  must  be 
well  floured,  and  the  mixture  be  made  into 
little  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg  ;  drop  into 
the  soup  twenty  minutes  before  serving. 

Ox  Tail  Soup. — Boil  two  ox  tails  three 
to  four  hours,  season  with  salt,  black  pepper 
and  a  small  piece  of  ripe  pepper  pod.  Add 
one-half  cup  barley,  previously  soaked  in 
cold  water  three  hours,  a  cup  of  tomato 
juice  and  a  little  carrot  finely  chopped. 
Boil  all  together  one  hour  and  serve  hot. 

Vermicelli  Soup. — Take  four  pounds 
of  lamb,  removing  all  fat,  one  pound  veal  and 
a  slice  of  ham,  cut  up,  cover  with  a  quart  of 
cold  water,  and  let  it  heat  slowly.  Keep  it 
closely  covered.  After  an  hour,  add  four 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  till  the 
meat  is  in  shreds.  Then  season  with  salt, 
herbs,  and  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce, 
boiling  for  ten  minutes  in  the  soup.  Then 
strain  and  set  again  on  the  fire.  Now  add 
about  the  third  of  a  pound  of  vermicelli 
which  has  been  boiled  tender.  Boil  up  once, 
and  serve.  Macaroni  may  be  used  if  pre- 
ferred to  vermicelli. 

Philadelphia    Pepper     Pot. — Put    two 

pounds  of  tripe  and  four  calves'  feet  into 
the  soup  pot  and  cover  them  with  cold 
svater  ;  add  a  red  pepper,  and  boil  until  the 
calves'  feet  have  become  very  tender.  Then 
lake  out  the  meat,  skim  and  stir  the  liquid, 
and  cut  the  tripe  into  small  pieces,  which 
put  back  into  the  liquid.  If  there  is  not 
enough  of  this  add  boiling  water.  Flavor 
with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sweet  marjoram, 
sweet  basil,  and  thyme,  two  sliced  onions, 
sliced  potatoes  and  salt.  When  these  have 
boiled  until  almost  tender,  add  a  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  drop  in  some  ^"g^ 
balls,  boil  fifteen  minutes  more.    Serve  hot. 

Noodles  for  Soup. — Beat  up  one  Q^%g 
light,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  very  stiff  dough  ;  roll  out  like 
thin  pie  crust,  and  dredge  with  flour  to 
keep  from  sticking.  Let  this  dry  for  an 
hour  or  more ;  then  roll  it  up  into  a  tight 
scroll,  and  slice  it  into  thin  pieces.  After 
all  are  cut,  mix  them  lightly  together,  and, 


to  prevent  them  sticking,  keep  them  floured 
a  little  until  you  are  ready  to  drop  them  into 
your  soup.  This  should  be  done  15  min- 
utes before  serving,  for  if  boiled  too  long 
they  will  go  to  pieces. 

Fish  Soup. — Select  a  large,  fine  fish, 
clean  thoroughly,  and  put  over  the  fire  in 
water,  allowing  one  quart  for  each  pound 
of  fish.  Add  an  onion  cut  fine,  and  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs.  When  the  fish  is  cooked, 
and  is  quite  tasteless,  strain  all  through  a 
cullender,  return  to  the  fire  and  add  some 
butter  ;  then  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  A 
small  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce 
may  be  added.  Serve  with  small  squares 
of  fried  bread  and  thin  slices  of  lemon. 

Oyster  Soup. — Strain  the  juice  from  two 
quarts  of  oysters,  add  to  it  a  teacupful  of 
water,  and  heat  slowly  in  a  covered  vessel. 
When  near  boiling,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  add  the  oysters,  and  let  them  stew 
for  about  five  minutes.  Heat  in  a  separate 
vessel  a  quart  of  milk  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  pour  in,  and  stir  well  for  two 
minutes. 

Be  very  careful  that  the  soup  is  cooked 
just  enough.  Too  much  cooking  ruins  the 
oysters,  while  they  are  equally  ruined  for 
the  taste  by  being  underdone.  The  plump- 
ness of  the  body  and  the  ruffling  of  the  edge 
are  indications  of  their  being  in  the  right 
condition.  Serve  with  sliced  lemon  and 
oyster  or  cream  crackers.  Mace  and  nut- 
meg may  be  used  for  seasoning. 

Oyster  Bouillon. — Wash  and  chop  fifty 
good-sized  oysters,  put  them  in  a  double 
boiler,  cover  and  cook  slowly  for  an  hour  ; 
add  a  pint  of  water,  a  level  teaspoonful  of 
celery  seed,  and  strain  through  two  thick- 
nesses of  cheesecloth  ;  reheat,  add  a  level 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  and 
serve  in  cups. 

Clam  Soup. — Take  twenty-five  clams, 
and  chop  fine.  Put  over  the  fire  the  liquor 
that  was  drained  from  them,  pour  in  a  cup 
of  water,  and  let  boil  ten  minutes  ;  then  add 
the  chopped  clams,  and  boil  half  an  hour. 
Season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  let  it  boil 
again  and  add  one  quart  of  milk  heated  to 
scalding,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  made 


iMh  MuDkL  cook:  BOOK 


to  a  cream  wilt  a  little  cold  milk,  or  two 
crackers  rolled  fine.  Some  like  a  little 
mace  and  lemon  juice  in  the  seasoning. 
Serve  without  delay. 

Green  Turtle  Soup. — Chop  the  coarser 
meat  of  the  turtle,  with  the  bones,  add  four 
quarts  of  water,  with  salt,  pepper,  two 
onions,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  Stew 
slowly  for  four  hours,  keeping  it  at  a  boil. 
Then  strain  the  soup,  and  add  the  finer 
meat  and  the  green  fat  of  the  turtle,  which 
have  been  simmering  for  an  hour  in  a  quart 
of  water.  Thicken  with  brown  flour  and 
boil  for  an  hour  more.  If  there  are  turtle 
eggs ,  boil  them  separately  for  four  hours ,  then 
throw  into  the  soup.  Use  force-meat  balls 
if  there  are  no  eggs.  Then  put  in  the  juice 
of  one  lemon  and  a  glass  of  Madeira  wine. 
Beat  up  once  and  pour  out.  Any  private 
family  can  now  obtain  green  turtle  meat  for 
soup,  it  being  preserved  in  air-tight  cans. 

Chicken  Soup. — Prepare  a  fowl  for 
cooking.  Separate  it  at  the  joints  and  cut 
it  into  small  pieces.  Put  the  meat  into  a 
saucepan  with  three  pints  of  water  and  cook 
it  slowly  from  2)^  to  3  hours,  or  until  very 
tender.  Then  take  out  the  meat,  let  the 
liquor  continue  to  boil,  and  to  it  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
finely  cut  onion,  which  has  been  fried  in  a 
little  butter  until  soft,  but  not  brown,  and 
three  peppercorns .  Remove  the  gristle  from 
the  meat  and  put  the  meat,  with  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  into  the  soup,  and  simmer 
until  the  rice  is  very  soft.  A  little  white 
pepper  and  celery  salt  may  be  added,  if 
desired.  If  the  water  boils  away  during  the 
cooking,  add  more  boiling  water.  Serve 
the  soup  with  croutons. 

Croutons. — Cut  slices  of  stale  bread  Y^ 
incb  thick.  Cut  off  the  crusts  and  divide 
the  slices  into  ^  inch  cubes.  Place  them 
on  a  tin  sheet  and  bake  them  until  golden- 
brown.     Serve  with  stews  and  soups. 

Vegetable  Soup. — Scrape  one  small  car- 
rot and  pare  one  small  turnip,  removing  a 
thick  skin.  Grate  and  add  them  to  one  cup 
of  soup  stock  and  let  it  simmer  45  minutes. 
Pare  one  potato,  cut  it  into  small  cubes  and 
add  it  to  the  stock  after  the  turnip  and 
carrot  have  cooked  15  minutes.     Add  some 


23 


tomato ,  if  desired .  The  soup  may  be  varied 
by  using  rice  or  noodles  with  the  stock,  in- 
stead of  vegetables . 

Thick  Vegetable  Soup.— Put  i  lb.  shin 
bone  into  one  pint  cold  water  with  one-half 
teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  sugar,  let  it  sim- 
mer. Brown  two  sliced  onions  in  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  stir  in  an  equal  quantity 
of  flour  and  brown  it ;  add  one  cup  boiling 
water  gradually,  and,  when  the  mixture  is 
smooth  and  thick,  stir  it  into  the  soup.  Cut 
two  carrots  and  two  turnips  in  small  squares, 
and  some  celery  in  ^  inch  strips,  and  add 
them.  Simmer  two  hours.  Three  quarters 
of  an  hour  before  serving  slice  two  potatoes, 
parboil  5  minutes,  and  add  them  and  one- half 
teaspoonful  of  pepper.  One  tablespoonful 
of  chopped  parsley  may  be  added  just  before 
serving.  Remove  the  bone,  separate  the 
meat,  if  there  is  any,  into  small  pieces,  and 
serve  in  the  soup.  Do  not  put  any  fat 
meat  into  the  soup . 

Green  Pea  Soup. — Put  the  empty  pods 
of  a  half  peck  of  peas  into  a  gallon  of  water, 
and  boil  for  an  hour.  Then  strain,  put 
in  four  pounds  of  chopped  beef,  and  boil 
slowly  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then  add  the 
peas  ;  boil  half  an  hour,  adding  ten  minutes 
before  serving  a  half  cup  of  rice  flour,  salt, 
pepper,  and  chopped  parsley.  Strain  into  a 
hot  tureen. 

Dried  Pea  Soup. — One  gallon  of  water, 
one  quart  of  soaked  peas ;  boil  slowly  for 
two  hours.  Then  press  the  peas  through  a 
cullender  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  return 
to  the  pot,  adding  a  small  head  of  celery, 
chopped,  and  a  little  parsley  or  summer 
savory.  If  the  soup  becomes  too  thick  add 
more  water.  Place  in  the  bottom  of  the 
tureen  small  pieces  of  toasted  bread,  or 
scatter  bread  that  has  been  fried  in  butter 
until  brown  on  the  surface  of  the  soup,  after 
it  has  been  poured  into  the  tureen. 

Pea  Porridge. — Shell  the  peas  and  put 
the  pods  on  to  boil,  cooking  about  an  hour. 
Drain  off  the  water,  and  put  it  over  the  fire ; 
add  the  peas,  some  potato  cut  in  small 
pieces,  a  bunch  of  pot-herbs,  and  a  small 
onion.  When  these  are  well  cooked  add  a 
quart  of  milk,  and  thicken  with  flour  and 
butter  rubbed  together,  and  salt  and  peppei 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOk 


to  taste.     Small  dumplings  are  an  addition, 
if  liked. 

Bean  Soup. — Cook  three  pints  soup  or 
marrowfat  beans,  with  one  and  one  half 
pounds  of  fresh  pork.  When  done  remove 
the  meat.  Take  out  a  dish  of  beans  to 
serve  for  dinner.  Take  a  pint  of  beans  and 
run  them  through  a  sieve.  Have  as  much 
water  as  iaecessary,  for  the  amount  of  soup 
desired  to  make,  add  the  pulp  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  make  thickening  of  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one-half  cup 
sweet  milk,  one  well-beaten  ^%z^  ^^^  one 
onion  cut  fine. 

Black  Bean  Soup. — Take  one  cup  black 
beans,  soak  several  hours  or  over  night ; 
put  to  boil  in  one  quart  cold  water.  Slice 
half  a  small  onion,  and  fry  it  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Add  it  to  the  beans, 
and  simmer  four  or  five  hours,  or  until  the 
beans  are  soft,  adding  cold  water  so  as  to 
keep  the  quantity  one  quart.  Cook  together 
one  tablespoonful  each  flour  and  butter,  and 
add  to  the  soup  after  it  is  strained.  Season 
with  a  tablespoonful  salt  and  a  sprinkle 
of  pepper  and  mustard.  Any  other  dried 
beans  may  be  used  in  making  this  soup. 

Corn  Soup. — Stew  one-half  can  or  two 
cups  corn  with  one- half  cup  water  until 
soft.  Scald  one  pint  milk,  with  salt  and 
pepper  added,  in  the  top  of  a  double  boiler; 
add  one-half  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Pour 
in  the  corn,  and  strain  it  if  desired. 

Chicken  Corn  Soup. — ^Take  a  large 
chicken,  cut  into  pieces,  and  boil  with  the 
cobs  of  the  corn  in  a  gallon  of  water  till 
tender.  Then  put  into  the  pot  the  green 
corn  cut  from  a  dozen  ears,  and  stew  gently 
for  an  hour  longer.  Remove  the  chicken 
and  the  cobs,  season  the  soup  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  parsley,  thicken  with  rice  or  wheat 
floiir,  boil  up  again,  and  serve.  There  is 
no  need  to  strain  if  the  corn  is  young. 

The  chicken,  unless  boiled  to  rags,  may 
be  served  in  a  fricasee.  For  this,  beat  up 
an  &%'g  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  adding 
some  liquor  from  the  soup,  and  boil  for  a 
moment.  Thicken  with  flour,  season,  and 
pour  hot  over  the  chicken.  Garnish  dish 
with  parsley  and  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg. 

Graham  Soup.— Chop  up  finely  three 
onions,  three   carrots,  four   turnips,  and  a 


bunch  of  celery.  Put  on  the  fire  in  about 
three  quarts  of  water.  Simmer  half  an  hour, 
then  add  a  small  cabbage,  which  has  been 
parboiled  and  cut  up.  In  fifteen  minutes 
more  put  in  a  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes  and 
a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  boil  briskly  for 
twenty  minutes.  Then  rub  through  a  cul- 
lender, and  boil  again,  adding  pepper  and 
salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Some 
cream,  thickened  with  corn  starch,  may  be 
added,  if  convenient.  Give  it  a  brief  boil, 
and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Tomato  Soup. — Stew  a  quart  of  peeled 
tomatoes  until  soft,  strain,  and  add  a  pinch 
of  soda.  Set  over  the  fire  again,  adding  a 
quart  of  hot  milk ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  ^%%., 
and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  rolled  cracker, 
and  serve  hot.  Canned  tomatoes  may  be 
used  in  place  of  fresh  ones. 

Potato  Soup. — Three  potatoes,  one  and 
one-half  cups  water,  three  cups  milk,  one 
onion,  three  teaspoonfuls  salt,  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  and  one-half 
tablespoonfuls  butter.  Boil  potatoes  until 
soft,  drain  and  mash  them.  Cook  the  onions 
in  the  milk  ;  add  this  to  the  mashed  pota- 
toes, add  the  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  the 
butter  in  a  pan,  add  flour,  add  this  to  the 
soup,  let  boil  up  once,  strain  and  serve  hot. 

Cream  of  Tomato  or  Mock  Bisque 
Soup. — Stew  one  can  tomatoes  until  soft, 
strain,  and  add  one-half  teaspoonful  soda. 
Melt  three  tablespoonfuls  butter  in  a  sauce» 
pan,  and  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
Cook  it,  stirring  until  the  flour  swells  and  is 
smooth.  Pour  in  one  quart  scalded  milk 
gradually  and  cook,  stirring  constantly, 
until  the  mixture  thickens ;  add  one  teaspoon- 
ful salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoonful  pepper. 
Add  the  tomato,  and  serve  immediately  in 
a  hot  covered  dish.  If  the  soup  curdles, 
beat  it  with  an  egg-beater  until  smooth. 

Fish. 

The  variety  of  edible  fish  is  very  con- 
siderable, most  of  them  being  wholesome 
and  nutritious.  Yet  white- fleshed  and  red- 
fleshed  fish,  oily  fish,  shell-fish,  etc.,  difier 
widely  in  their  properties.  In  general,  fish 
contain  less  fat  than  ordinary  meat,  while 


24 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


often  much  richer  in  nitrogenous  tissue. 
The  suitability  of  fish  for  the  table  varies 
with  the  season,  its  food  supply,  the  length 
of  time  it  has  been  taken  out  of  the  water, 
and  the  treatment  it  has  received.  It  is  in 
the  highest  condition  just  before  the  spawn- 
ing time,  being  then  fatter  and  of  richer 
flavor.  Herring,  mackerel,  and  many  other 
fish  are  best  immediately  after  being  caught, 
while  the  ray  and  some  similar  fish  improve 
by  keeping  for  several  hours. 

As  a  rule,  white  fish  are  more  digestible 
than  red  fish,  and  the  less  oily  than  the  very 
oily.  Among  those  best  suited  for  weak 
stomachs  are  fresh- water  fish,  such  as  shad, 
whiting,  etc.  Salmon,  while  the  most  es- 
teemed of  table  fishes,  has  an  evil  reputation 
with  dyspeptics — this  being  probably  due 
less  to  the  fish  itself  than  to  its  condition 
when  cooked  and  its  accompaniments. 

Fish  of  all  kinds  should  be  eaten  as  fresn 
as  possible,  and  should  be  kept  near  the  ice 
until  cooked.  A  fish  in  good  condition 
should  have  firm  flesh,  bright- red  gills,  and 
full,  clear  eyes,  with  little  odor  about  it. 
Before  cooking  it  should  be  thoroughly 
cleaned  and  wiped  with  a  cloth  wet  with 
salt  water.  For  frying  and  broiling  pur- 
poses oily  fish,  such  as  shad,  mackerel,  her- 
ring, salmon,  and  bluefish,  are  the  best,  as 
they  do  not  become  dry. 

Fried  Fish. — Most  of  the  smaller  fish  are 
eaten  fried.  They  are  generally  termed  pan- 
fish.  Clean  well,  cut  off"  the  head,  and,  if 
the  fish  is  large,  cut  out  the  backbone,  and 
slice  the  body  crosswise.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Dip  in  Indian  meal,  or  wheat 
flour,  or  use  beaten  &%^  and  roll  in  bread  or 
fine  cracker  crumbs  (trout  and  perch  should 
not  be  dipped  in  meal).  Cook  in  a  thick 
bottomed  iron  frying-pan,  laying  the  flesh 
side  down,  and  using  hot  lard  or  drippings. 
Fry  slowly,  turning  when  lightly  browned. 

Steamed  Fish. — Bend  the  body  of  the 
fish  in  a  circle,  pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of 
vinegar,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
let  it  stand  an  hour  in  a  cool  place.  Then 
pour  off"  the  vinegar,  and  put  the  fish  into  a 
steamer  over  boiling  water,  and  steam 
twenty  minutes,  or  longer  for  large  fish. 
When  the  meat  easily  separates  from  the 
bone  it  is  done.     Drain  well,  and  serve  on  a 


25 


napkin  placed  on  the  platter,  decorating  with 
sprigs  of  curled  parsley. 

Broiled  Shad.— Split  and  wash  the  shad, 
and  dry  it  in  a  cloth.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Grease  the  gridiron  well,  heat  it, 
and  lay  the  shad  upon  it,  the  flesh  side 
down.  Cover  with  a  dripping-pan  and  broil 
for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  or  more,  ac- 
cording to  the  thickness.  The  fire  must  be 
clear  and  hot.  Butter  well,  and  send  to  the 
table .  Covering  the  fish  while  broiling  gives 
it  a  better  flavor. 

Broiled  Salmon.— Cut  into  slices  an 
inch  thick,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Having  buttered  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  lay 
each  slice  on  a  separate  piece,  and  envelope 
them  by  twisting  the  ends.  Broil  gently 
over  a  clear  fire,  and  serve  with  anchovy  or 
caper  sauce.  When  higher  seasoning  is  re- 
quired, add  a  few  ciiopped  herbs  and  a  little 
spice. 

Boiled  Fresh  Codfish. — Before  cooking, 
soak  in  slightly  salted  water  for  half  an 
hour.  Then  wipe  dry,  and  wrap  in  a  linen 
cloth,  dredged  with  flour,  and  sew  up  the 
edges.  Put  into  the  kettle,  with  plenty  of 
hot  water,  and  boil  briskly,  allowing  fifteen 
minutes  for  each  pound.  The  fish  is  suf- 
ficiently cooked  when  the  flesh  separates 
from  the  bone. 

The  sauce  is  prepared  by  stirring  into 
two  gills  of  boiling  water  and  milk  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour,  and 
adding,  as  it  thickens,  two  beaten  eggs. 
Season  with  salt  and  parsley,  and,  on  with- 
drawing from  the  fire,  add  pickled  nastur- 
tium or  celery  seeds.  Put  the  fish  in  a  hot 
dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it.  Garnish 
with  parsley  and  circles  of  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Rock  fish  and  bass  may  be  cooked  in  the 
same  manner,  but  will  need  less  boiling. 

Shad  Roe. — Drop  into  boiling  water  and 
cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Take  from  fire. 
Butter  a  tin  plate  and  lay  the  roe  on  it ; 
dredge  with  salt  and  pepper  and  spread  with 
butter,  then  dredge  with  flour  ;  cook  in  oven 
for  half  an  hour.  Baste  frequently  with 
salt,  pepper,  butter,  flour  and  water. 

Salt  Codfish  Balls. — Soak  shredded 
codfish  in  cold  water  about  ten  minutes  and 
drain.     Add  an  equal   amount  of  mashed 


iO 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


potatoes,  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  one 
^<g%  well  beaten.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
shape  into  balls  or  cakes,  first  flouring 
your  hands.     Fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

Fishballs,  oysters,  and  croquettes  should 
be  fried  in  a  bath  of  smoking  hot  fat.  Melt 
the  fat  (olive  oil,  lard,  cottolene,  or  beef 
dripping)  in  a  deep  pot,  and  when  it  begins 
to  smoke,  drop  in  a  small  cube  of  bread. 
If  in  forty  seconds  the  bread  browns,  the 
fat  is  hot  enough  for  frying  cooked  foods, 
such  as  fishballs  and  croquettes,  or  foods 
which  need  little  cooking,  such  as  oysters. 
All  fried  foods  should  be  drained  on  soft 
brown  paper.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to 
cook  too  much  food  at  one  time,  because 
the  cold  food  lowers  the  temperature  of  the 
fat  and  thus  makes  the  food  greasy.  The 
fat  may  be  strained  and  used  many  times. 

Codfish  Balls. — To  make  these,  prepare 
the  fish  as  for  boiling.  Cut  into  pieces  and 
boil  twenty  minutes.  Pour  off  the  water, 
cover  again  with  boiling  water,  and  boil 
twenty  minutes  more.  Then  drain  and  lay 
out  to  cool.  When  cold,  pick  to  pieces 
with  a  fork,  leaving  only  the  flesh,  and 
shredding  it  fine.  Add  an  equal  bulk  of 
mashed  potatoes,  and  work  into  a  stiff  bat- 
ter with  the  aid  of  butter  and  sweet  milk. 
Make  the  mixture  into  balls  or  cakes,  first 
flouring  your  hands.  Fry  in  smoking-hot 
lard  to  a  light  brown.  Or  use  the  cod  and 
potatoes  alone,  molding  into  the  shape  of 
biscuits. 

Baked  Shad. — In  the  opinion  of  many 
people,  the  best  way  to  cook  a  shad  is  to 
bake  it.  For  this,  fill  it  with  bread-crumbs, 
salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  parsley,  and  mix 
this  up  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs. 
Then  sew  it  up  or  fasten  a  string  around  it. 
Pour  over  the  fish  a  little  water  and  some 
butter,  and  bake  as  you  would  a  fowl.  An 
hour  or  more  will  be  needed  to  bake.  Gar- 
nish with  slices  of  lemon,  water  cresses,  etc. 

Boil  up  the  gravy  in  which  the  shad 
was  baked,  put  in  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
catsup  and  brown  flour,  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  a  glass  of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine. 
Pour  on  the  shad  as  a  dressing.  Serve  in  a 
sauce-boat  or  suitable  dish. 

Baked  Whitefish.— Clean  the  fish  and 
cut  off  the  head>  if  preferred ;  cut  ov*-  the 


26 


backbone  to  within  two  inches  of  the  tail, 
and  stuff  the  fish  with  the  following  mix- 
ture :  Soak  stale  bread  in  water ;  fry  in 
butter  a  large  onion,  and  chop  fine  ;  add  the 
bread,  squeezed  dry,  two  ounces  of  butter, 
and  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  parsley  or 
sage ;  heat  through,  take  off  the  fire,  and 
add  the  yolks  of  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Sew 
the  fish,  when  filled,  with  fine  twine,  and 
wrap  with  several  coils  of  white  tape.  Rub 
it  over  slightly  with  butter,  cover  the  bot- 
tom of  a  baking  pan  with  hot  water,  and 
place  the  fish  in  it,  back  upward.  Serve 
with  the  following  dressing :  Reduce  the 
yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth 
paste  with  two  tablespoonfuls  good  salad 
oil ;  stir  in  half  a  teaspoonful  English  mus- 
tard, and  add  pepper  and  vinegar  to  taste. 

Baked  Salmon. — Clean,  wipe  dry,  and 
rub  with  salt  and  pepper.  Then  lay  the 
fish  on  a  grating  over  your  baking-pan,  and 
roast  or  bake,  basting  at  first  with  butter, 
and  afterwards  with  its  own  drippings.  If 
browning  too  fast,  cover  with  a  sheet  of 
white  paper  until  the  whole  is  cooked. 
Then  put  in  a  hot  covered  dish,  and  add  to 
the  gravy  a  little  hot  water  thickened  with 
flour,  a  large  spoonful  of  strained  tomato 
sauce,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Let  this 
boil  up,  and  serve  in  a  sauce-boat.  If  you 
prefer,  you  can  serve  with  cream  sauce. 

Stewed  Catfish — Skin,  clean,  and  cut 
off  the  heads.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  and  lay 
in  a  cool  place.  Then  cover  with  cold 
water  in  a  saucepan,  and  stew  gently  for 
thirty  or  forty  minutes,  according  to  size. 
Add  a  small  onion,  chopped,  some  dropped 
parsley,  pepper,  and  a  paste  made  of  flour 
and  butter.  Boil  up,  take  out  the  fish,  and 
lay  in  a  deep  dish,  pouring  the  gravy  over 
the  fish.     Serve  in  a  covered  dish. 

Fried  Catfish. — Prepare  as  above.  Beat 
two  or  three  eggs,  in  which  dip  the  fish, 
and  then  dip  into  powdered  cracker.  Fry 
quickly  in  hot  lard  or  dripping.  Serve  as 
soon  as  done. 

Boiled  Salmon  Trout. — Clean,  wash, 
and  dry  the  fish.  Wrap  in  a  thin  cloth, 
cover  with  salted  water,  and  boil  gently  for 
half  an  hour,  or  longer  for  large  fish. 
When  done,  remove  the  cloth  and  lay  in  a 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


It 


iiot  dish.  Pour  over  it  cream  sauce  and 
serve.  The  cream  sauce  is  made  of  a  cup 
of  cream,  diluted  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
hot  water,  stirring  in  two  tablespoonfuls 
melted  butter  and  some  chopped  parsley. 

Fried  Trout. — Brook  trout  are  usually 
served  fried.  After  cleaning  and  drying, 
roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  butter,  or  butter 
and  lard.  L,et  the  fat  be  hot,  fry  to  a  deli- 
cate brown,  and  serve  instantly.  Use  no 
seasoning  except  salt.  Lay  on  a  hot  nap- 
kin, to  absorb  any  external  grease,  and 
rang&  side  by  side  in  a  heated  dish. 

Canned  Salmon. — Canned  salmon  may 
be  served  cold  with  any  of  the  fish  sauces. 
For  a  breakfast  dish  it  may  be  heated,  sea- 
soned with  salt  and  pepper  and  served  on 
butterea  toast,  with  a  dressing  of  milk  thick- 
ened witn  butter  and  flour  poured  over  it. 

Breakfast  flackerel. — Soak  the  fish  over 
night,  next  morning  put  in  a  skillet  in  cold 
water.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  pour  off 
water,  add  more  and  let  come  to  a  scald  ; 
take  up,  spread  over  with  butter,  dredge 
with  flour  and  set  in  oven  to  brown. 

Terrapin. — Cut  off  head  and  dress.  Boil 
till  tender  with  a  little  salt  and  a  pinch  of 
soda  added  to  the  water.  When  tender  take 
from  water  and  pick  to  pieces,  add  a  few 
cracker  crumbs,  one  onion,  parsley,  allspice, 
salt  and  pepper,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter.  Boil  liquor  down,  pour  over  fish  ; 
garnish  with  slices  of  lemon  and  bake  a 
light  brown. 

Mock  Terrapin — Take  half  a  calf's  liver, 
season  and  fry  brown.  Hash  it  not  very 
fine ;  dredge  thickly  with  flour ;  take  one 
teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  a  pinch  of 
cayenne  pepper,  two  hard-boiled  eggs 
chopped  fine,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an 
^%g,  one  teacup  of  water.  Boil  together  a 
minute  or  two  and  serve. 

Turtle.— Cut  off  the  head,  and  scald, 
scrape  and  clean  thoroughly.  Put  on  to 
boil,  shell  and  all,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and 
cook  until  very  tender,  pick  meat  from 
shell,  season  with  butter,  and  thicken  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  litl^e  milk. 

Fried  Eels. — After  cleaning  the  eels 
well,  cut  in  pieces  about  two  inches  long, 


27 


wash  them  and  wipe  them  dry,  roll  them  in 
flour  or  crackers, fry  in  hot  lard.  They  should 
be  browned  all  over  and  thoroughly  done. 

Fish  Chowder. — ^Take  i  lb.  cod  or  had- 
dock ;  put  the  head,  bones,  fins  and  skin 
into  one  cup  cold  water  and  let  simmer. 
In  one  tablespoonful  of  dripping  brown  one 
small  onion.  Pare  and  slice  two  potatoes 
and  parboil  five  minutes.  Strain  the  fish  bones 
from  the  water,  add  the  potatoes,  scrape  in 
the  browned  onion,  and  add  salt  and  pepper. 
Bring  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  fish,  cut  into 
inch  pieces  ;  simmer  from  ten  to  twenty  min- 
utes, or  until  the  fish  and  potatoes  are  done. 
Take  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  flour  and 
butter  and  one  cup  of  milk,  and  cook  to- 
gether to  make  a  white  sauce  ;  add  it  to  the 
chowder,  boil,  and  add  two  crackers  broken 
into  quarte'         Serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

Fish  S:  iice. — Put  four  tablespoonfuls 
butter  into  a  saucepan,  and  cook  in  it  the 
same  measure  of  flour.  Add  two  cups 
boiling  water,  milk  or  fish-stock,  four  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter,  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Boil  five  minutes  and  serve. 
This  is  often  cabled  drawn-butter  sauce.  To 
make  &%;g  sauce  add  to  above  two  or  three 
chopped  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Shell  Fish. 

Of  shell-fish  the  oyster  is  the  general 
favorite  among  epicures  and  everyday  people 
alike.  It  is  more  wholesome  eaten  raw  than 
when  cooked,  the  flesh  being  coagulated 
and  hardened  by  cooking.  The  least  digest- 
ible part  is  the  firm  hard  section  of  muscle, 
by  which  the  animal  was  fastened  to  the 
shell.  Persons  of  weak  digestion  should 
reject  this  portion.  The  clam,  while  it  may 
be  made  into  various  palatable  dishes,  is 
much  tougher  and  less  digestible  than  the 
oyster.  As  regards  the  crab  and  lobster, 
they  are  favorite  epicurean  dishes,  but  not 
from  their  digestibility,  since  they  are  un- 
fitted for  weak  stomachs.  Many  persons  of 
fairly  good  powers  of  digestion  find  the  crab 
or  lobster  a  heavy  load  upon  the  stomach. 

Fried  Oysters. — Remove  all  bits  of  shell 
from  oysters,  lay  them  on  a  clean  cloth,  and 
pat  them  gently  to  dry  them .  Shake  salt  and 
pepper  over  them.     Beat  an  ^%%^  and  stir 


12 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


into  it  one  tablespoonful  cold  water  or  milk. 
Sprinkle  some  fine  crumbs  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Dip  the  oysters  in  the  crumbs, 
then  in  the  beaten  ^z%,  and  again  in  the 
crumbs,  covering  them  over  each  time. 
Fry  them  in  deep,  hot  fat,  drain  on  brown 
paper,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Fried  Oysters. — Take  large  oysters  from 
their  own  liquor,  and  dry  them  in  a  thickly 
folded  napkin.  Then  heat  an  ounce  each  of 
butter  and  lard  in  a  thick- bottomed  frying- 
pan.  Season  the  oysters  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  dip  each  into  ^%<g  and  cracker- 
crumbs  rolled  fine,  until  it  will  take  up  no 
more.  Place  them  in  the  hot  grease  and 
fry  to  a  delicate  brown,  turning  them  with 
a  broad-bladed  knife.  Serve  crisp  and  hot. 
Some  roll  oysters  in  corn-meal  or  flour,  but 
they  are  much  more  crisp  '  th  ^%^  and 
cracker-crumbs . 

5mall  Oyster  Pies.— Take  a  tin  plate 
half  the  size  of  an  ordinary  dinner  plate  ; 
butter  it,  and  cover  the  bottom  with  a  puff 
paste,  as  for  pies.  Lay  on  it  five  or  six 
select  oysters,  or  enough  to  cover  the  bot- 
tom ;  butter,  and  season  with  a  little  salt 
and  plenty  of  pepper ;  spread  over  this  an 
^^•g  batter,  and  cover  with  an  upper  crust  of 
the  paste,  piercing  it  with  a  fork.  Bake  in 
a  hot  oven  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  or 
until  the  top  is  nicely  browned.  Repeat 
this  process  for  each  pie. 

Stewed  Oysters.  —Drain  the  liquor  from 
two  quarts  of  oysters,  mix  it  with  a  teacup- 
ful  of  hot  water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  boil  in  a  saucepan.  After  it  has  come 
to  a  boil  put  in  the  oysters,  and  cook  not 
over  five  minutes.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  and  when  this  is  melted  a  cupful 
of  boiling  milk.  Then  take  from  the  fire, 
and  serve  with  oyster  or  cream  crackers. 

Broiled  Oysters — Let  these  be  large 
and  plump.  Wipe  dry,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  red  pepper,  and  broil  on  a  small  grid- 
iron made  for  this  purpose.  Butter  the 
gridiron  well,  and  have  a  clear,  hot  fire. 
Broil  quickly,  and  serve  hot,  with  a  small 
bit  of  butter  on  each  oyster. 

Brown  sauce  for  broiled  oysters  may  be 
prepared  as  follows  :  Heat  a  cup  of  oyster 
juice ;  stir  two  tablespoonfuls   butter  in  a 


28 


pan  over  the  fire  till  it  is  a  delicate  brown ; 
add  four  tablespoonfuls  flour,  and  when  well 
mixed  add  the  oyster  juice  slowly,  and  then 
a  cup  of  hot  milk  or  cream.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  keep  over  a  pan  of  hot 
water  till  needed.  A  few  cloves  or  a  stick 
of  mace  may  be  used  to  flavor  the  sauce. 

Scalloped  Oysters. — Crush  several  hand- 
ful»  of  crackers,  and  put  a  layer  in  the  bot- 
tom of  a  buttered  dish,  wetting  it  with  a 
mixture  of  the  oyster  j  nice  and  milk .  Then 
place  a  layer  of  oysters,  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper,  another  layer  of  moistened 
cracker  dust,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  full, 
the  upper  layer  being  a  thick  one  of  crumbs. 
Stick  bits  of  butter  thickly  over  it,  cover 
the  dish,  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  the  oven. 
If  not  brown  on  top,  remove  the  cover,  and 
set  the  dish  on  the  upper  grating  of  the  oven. 

Panned  Oysters. — Put  the  oysters  into 
a  saucepan  without  water,  and  shake  them 
over  a  moderate  fire  until  they  look  plump 
and  their  edges  are  curled.  For  twenty-five 
oysters  add  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  salt 
and  pepper,  stirring  the  seasoning  in  well. 
Serve  in  a  hot  dish  ;  if  desired,  on  slices  of 
toast. 

Creamed  Oysters. — Cook  as  for  panned 
oysters  ;  drain  in  a  strainer  ;  make  a  cup  of 
white  sauce,  and  stir  the  oysters  into  the 
hot  sauce.  Serve  on  toast ;  or  sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs,  browned  in  butter.  For 
the  white  sauce,  see  Fish  Chowder. 

Creamed  Clams — Have  twenty-five 
clams  chopped  fine.  Put  in  a  chafing  dish 
two  tablespoonfuls  butter ;  when  melted 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  flour.  Add  the 
clams  with  half  a  pint  of  their  j  nice ;  season 
well  with  pepper  and  salt.  Let  them  sim- 
mer from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Just  before 
serving  add  a  gill  of  sweet  cream,  and  let 
come  to  a  boil.     Serve  hot. 

Steamed-  Oysters. — Drain  one  quart  of 
select  oysters,  put  in  pan  and  place  in 
steamer  over  boiling  water,  cover  and  steam 
until  oysters  are  plump  with  edges  ruffled  ; 
place  in  buttered  dish  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt  and  serve. 

Oyster  Fritters. — To  a  cupful  of  oyster 
juice  add  one  cupful    milk,  three  eggs,  a 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


13 


little  salt,  and  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter. 
Chop  the  oysters  and  stir  into  batter.  Place 
in  the  pan  a  few  spoonfuls  of  lard,  heat 
very  hot,  and  drop  in  the  batter  by  the 
tablespoonful.  Take  from  the  pan  as  soon 
as  done  to  a  yellow  brown  and  serve  very 
hot.  Some  put  one  whole  oyster  to  each 
fritter ;  in  this  case  a  thicker  batter  is 
needed. 

Oyster  Sauce. — Boil  twenty-five  oysters 
in  their  own  juice  for  one  minute,  stirring 
steadily.  Drain,  put  back  the  liquor  on 
the  fire ;  add  one  cup  milk,  rub  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  two  of  flour  to  a 
smooth  paste,  and  stir  in  the  hot  liquid  till 
it  thickens.  Chop  the  oysters  small,  add 
them  to  the  sauce,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  take  from  the  fire.  Serve  with 
poultry  and  boiled  fish. 

Clam  Fritters. — Take  fifty  small  or 
twenty-five  large  clams,  cut  each  in  two  if 
large.  Lay  them  on  a  thickly  folded  nap- 
kin, and  put  a  pint  of  wheat  flour  into  a 
basin,  adding  three  well-beaten  eggs,  and 
half  a  pint  or  more  of  clam  juice.  Beat  the 
batter  until  it  is  smooth  and  perfectly  free 
from  lumps,  then  stir  in  the  clams.  Put 
plenty  of  lard  into  a  thick-bottomed  frying- 
pan,  let  it  become  boiling  hot,  and  put  in 
the  batter  by  the  spoonful.  Fry  gently, 
and  when  one  side  is  a  delicate  brown,  turn 
the  other. 

Clam  Chowder. — For  this  take  fifty 
clams,  a  bowl  of  salt  pork,  cut  up  fine,  and 
one  of  onions,  finely  chopped,  with  the 
same  or  a  greater  quantity  of  potatoes  cut 
into  small  pieces.  Fry  the  pork  very 
gently,  and  when  brown  take  it  out  and  put 
in  the  onions  to  fry.  This  should  be  done 
in  a  frying-pan,  and  the  chowder-kettle  be 
made  very  clean  before  they  are  put  in  it, 
or  the  chowder  will  burn.  Sprinkle  some 
of  the  pork  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  place 
Dn  it  a  layer  of  clams,  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  covered  with  bits  of  butter. 
Next  have  a  layer  of  onion  and  one  of  small 
crackers  moistened  with  milk.  On  this 
pour  some  of  the  fat  from  the  frying-pan, 
and  then  repeat  the  process,  continuing  till 
the  pot  is  nearly  full.  Cover  now  with 
water  and  stew  slowly,  for  forty-five  min- 
utes.    Drain  off"  the  liquor  that  flows  freely, 


and,  after  emptying  the  chowder  from  the 
pot,  return  this  liquor.  Thicken  it  with 
flour  or  cracker  dust,  add  some  wine  and 
catsup,  boil,  and  pour  over  the  contents  of 
the  tureen. 

Devilled  Crabs. — Extract  the  meat  from 
boiled  crabs  and  mince  it  finely.  Season 
well  with  mustard,  cayenne,  salt,  and  some 
sharp  sauce.  Toss  and  stir  till  well  mixed, 
and  cook  in  a  covered  saucepan,  with  just 
enough  water  to  keep  the  meat  from  burn- 
ing. For  dressing,  use  pulverized  cracker, 
moistened  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cream, 
and  with  vinegar  until  thin.  After  the 
water  has  come  to  a  boil  stir  this  in.  Next 
stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  boil  again, 
and  take  from  the  fire.  Serve  in  the  shell 
of  the  crab,  if  desired. 

Lobster  Croquettes. — Add  pepper,  salt, 
and  powdered  mace  to  the  meat  of  a  boiled 
lobster,  chopped  fine.  Mix  with  this  a  quar- 
ter of  its  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  and  mold 
into  pointed  balls,  with  the  aid  of  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Roll  in  beaten 
^Z%,  then  in  cracker  dust,  and  fry  in  butter 
or  sweet  lard.     Serve  dry  and  hot. 

Lobster  Salad. — Extract  all  the  meat 
from  a  cold  boiled  lobster,  and  mince  it,  ex- 
cept the  coral,  which  is  reserved  for  the 
dressing.  For  this  take  four  hard  boiled 
eggs,  and  rub  the  yolks  to  a  smooth  paste 
in  a  bowl  or  mortar,  gradually  rubbing  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  jnustard,  salt,  white  sugar, 
cayenne  pepper,  and  Harvey's  or  other 
sauce.  Lastly  add  the  coral,  which  musi 
be  worked  well  upon  a  plate  with  a  spatula. 
Moisten  with  vinegar  as  the  ingredients 
stiffen,  adding  until  the  mixture  is  thin 
enough  to  pour  over  the  minced  lobster. 
Toss  with  a  silver  fork,  taking  care  not  to 
break  the  meat.  Chopped  lettuce  may  be 
mixed  with  the  salad.  Garnish  the  dish 
around  its  edges  with  curled  lettuce,  or 
rings  cut  from  the  white  of  the  boiled  eggs. 
Lobster  salad  should  be  eaten  soon.  It  be- 
comes unwholesome  if  it  stand  long. 

Broiled  and  Baked  Lobsters. — Lob- 
sters which  are  to  be  broiled  or  baked  are 
killed  by  cutting  them  into  halves ;  the 
stomach     and     long    intestine  are  theu  re- 


29 


14 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


moved,  the  lobster  basted  with  melted  but- 
ter, dusted  slightly  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and,  if  baked,  placed  in  a  very  hot  oven  for 
half  an  hour,  basting  frequently.  If  broiled, 
arrange  in  a  broiler,  sear  quickly  the  flesh 
side,  and  broil,  shell  side  down,  at  an  ele- 
vation of  six  inches  over  a  perfectly  clear 
coal  fire  for  about  30  minutes,  or,  if  under- 
neath a  gas  stove,  with  the  flesh  side  up, 
basting  four  or  five  times  while  broiling. 
Serve  immediately  with  melted  butter  sauce. 

Scallops  Fricasseed  or  Fried. — Of  scal- 
lops only  the  muscular  part  is  used.  Fri- 
casseed they  form  one  of  the  nicest  of  lunch- 
eon dishes.  Wash  them  thoroughly  in  cold 
water,  drain,  and  pour  over  suflBcient  boil- 
ing water  to  cover  ;  bring  them  to  the  boil- 
ing point  and  drain  again.  To  each  pint 
allow  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  half  a  pint  of  milk 
and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Put  the  butter 
and  flour  into  a  saucepan  ;  when  mixed  add 
the  milk  and  stir  until  boiling ;  add  the 
scallops,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of 
pepper,  just  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  and  when 
hot  add  the  yolks  slightly  beaten,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  serve  at 
once.  Scallops  may  also  be  dipped  in  &%% 
and  breadcrumbs,  fried  in  smoking-hot  fat 
and  served  with  tomato  ketchup  or  sa\tce. 

Poultry  and   Game  Birds. 

The  term  poultry  includes  chickens,  tur- 
keys, ducks,  and  geese.  Its  flesh  is  lighter 
in  color  than  that  of  other  animals,  but  it  is 
very  nourishing.  The  flesh  of  ducks,  geese, 
and  many  wild  birds  is  much  darker  than 
that  of  the  chicken  or  turkey.  The  flesh  of 
birds  is  never  mottled,  like  that  of  mam- 
mals ;  that  is,  it  does  not  contain  fat  in 
layers  between  the  musuclar  tissue,  though 
there  may  be  much  fat  in  other  parts  of  the 
body.  The  flavor  and  digestibility  of  the 
flesh  of  birds  differ  considerably,  and  the 
flavor  is  much  affected  by  the  food.  The 
white  meat  of  birds  is  generally  considered 
the  most  tender,  and  the  dark  meat  the  most 
savory  and  stimulating. 

Roast  Turkey. — Be  careful  to  choose  a 
young  turkey.  Remove  the  feathers  care- 
fully, and  singe  over  a  burning  newspaper 
on  the  top  of  the   stove ;    then  carefully 


"draw"  the  fowl,  being  heedful  not  to 
break  any  of  the  internal  organs.  Remove 
the  crop,  cut  off"  the  head,  and  tie  the  neck 
close -to  the  body  by  drawing  the  skin  over 
it.  This  done,  the  inside  of  the  turkey  must 
be  carefully  rinsed  out  with  several  waters, 
a  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  being  mixed  in 
the  next  to  the  last.  The  inside  of  a  fowl 
is  often  sour,  if  it  has  not  been  freshly  killed, 
and  soda  acts  as  a  corrective  to  this. 
Next  wipe  the  turkey  dry,  inside  and  out, 
with  a  clean  cloth,  rub  the  inside  with  some 
salt,  and  fill  with  the  dressing  described  be- 
low. Then  sew  up  the  body  with  a  strong 
thread,  tie  the  legs  and  wings  to  the  body, 
rub  with  a  little  soft  butter,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge  with  a  little 
flour.  Now  place  the  turkey  in  a  dripping 
pan,  pour  in  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  set 
it  in  the  oven.  Baste  often,  turning  the 
bird  around  occasionally  so  that  every  part 
will  be  uniformly  done.  If  the  liquid  runs 
out  clear  when  the  body  is  pierced,  the  bird 
is  done.  If  any  part  is  likely  to  scorch,  pin 
over  it  a  piece  of  buttered  white  paper.  A 
fifteen-pound  turkey  requires  between  three 
and  four  hours  to  bake.  Serve  with  cran- 
berry sauce. 

Turkey  or  Chicken  Dressing. — Crum- 
ble one  loaf  of  bread  fine,  soften  with  melted 
butter,  cover  closely,  let  stand  from  half  to 
one  hour,  then  add  salt,  pepper  and  a  little 
sage  and  onions,  mix  thoroughly. 

Chestnut  Dressing  for  Turkey. — For  a 

ten-pound  turkey,  one  quart  of  Spanish  or 
two  quarts  of  common  chestnuts  will  be  re- 
quired. Shell,  blanch  and  boil  them  until 
tender;  drain,  mash  or  chop  fine;  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Mix  and 
stuff"  into  the  turkey. 

Roast  Turkey  with  Oysters. — Clean  a 
turkey  and  lay  it  in  a  dripping  pan  ;  prepare 
a  dressing  of  stale  bread,  composed  of  one 
quart  of  bread  crumbs  and  one  cupful  of 
butter,  and  water  enough  to  moisten.  Add 
to  this  two  dozen  oysters  and  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Mix  all,  and  stuff"  the  turkey 
with  it ;  and  put  butter  over  the  outside ; 
put  some  water  in  the  dripping  pan,  set  it  in 
the  oven  and  bake  until  done,  basting  quite 
often-     Never  parboil  a  young  turkey. 


3^-» 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


15 


Gravy  for  Turkey. — When  the  turkey 
is  put  in  to  roast,  place  the  neck,  heart, 
liver  and  gizzard  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  pint 
of  water,  and  boil  until  they  become  quite 
tender.  Then,  chop  the  heart  and  gizzard, 
mash  the  liver,  and  throw  away  the  neck. 
Return  the  chopped  meat  to  the  liquor  in 
which  it  was  stewed.  When  the  turkey  is 
done  this  material  should  be  added  to  the 
gravy  that  dripped  during  the  roasting,  the 
fat  being  first  skimmed  from  the  surface  of 
the  dripping-pan.  Set  it  then  o\er  the  fire, 
boil  three  minutes  and  thicken  with  flour. 
Brown  flour  will  not  be  needed  to  color  the 
gravy.  The  garnishes  for  turkey  or  chicken 
are  fried  oysters,  thin  slices  of  ham,  slices  of 
lemon,  fried  sausages,  or  force-meat  balls. 
Parsley  is  also  used. 

Fried  Chicken   or   Beef  Qravy. — Add 

one  tablespoon  ful  of  flour  to  the  fryings 
after  the  meat  has  been  taken  up  ;  stir  rap- 
idly, and  do  not  allow  it  to  scorch  ;  add  one 
pint  sweet  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste; 
let  boil  until  thick. 

Roast  Chicken — Pick  and  draw  your 
chicken,  wash  in  two  or  three  waters,  and 
add  a  little  soda  to  the  last  but  one  if  there 
is  any  doubtful  odor.  Fill  the  bodies  and 
crops  with  a  filling  of  bread  crumbs,  butter, 
pepper,  salt,  etc.,  as  described  for  roast  tur- 
key; sew  them  up,  and  roast  an  hour  or 
more,  according  to  size.  Baste  at  first  with 
butter  and  water,  and  afterwards  with  the 
gravy  from  the  pan.  A  little  hot  water 
should  be  put  in  the  pan  to  prevent  burning. 

Stew  the  neck  and  giblets  in  a  little 
water,  and,  after  removing  the  chickens 
from  the  pan,  pour  this  into  the  drippings  ; 
boil  up  once  ;  add  the  giblets,  chopped  fine  ; 
thicken  with  browned  flour,  and  serve  in  a 
gravy  boat.  The  chickens  may  be  served 
with  tomato  sauce  or  crab-apple  jelly. 

Roast  Goose.— The  goose  should  be  ab- 
solutely young  ;  fill  with  dressing  made  of 
two  pints  bread  crumbs,  one  onion  chopped 
,  fine,  three  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  ^Z'g^ 
slice  of  pork  chopped  fine  ;  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  in  roaster,  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper 
and  flour  ;  put  one  quart  of  boiling  water  in 
roaster  and  cook  from  three  to  four  hours. 
Boil  the  giblets  tender  ;  chop  for  the  gravy  ; 


31 


thicken  gravy  with  a  little  flour  and  milk. 
Serve  goose  with  apple  sauce. 

Fricasseed  Chicken. — For  this  the  fowls 
need  not  be  as  tender  as  for  roasting.  Clean, 
wash,  and  cut  up,  and  place  for  half  an  hour 
in  salt  water.  Then  put  into  a  pot,  with 
half  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  and  cover  with 
cold  water.  Cover  the  pot,  let  them  heat 
very  slowly,  and  then  stew  for  over  an  hour, 
or  much  longer  if  the  chickens  are  tough. 
Take  care  to  cook  very  slowly  ;  rapid  boil- 
ing toughens  them.  When  tender  add  a 
small  onion  or  two,  some  parsley  and 
pepper.  Cover  again,  bring  to  a  boil,  and 
stir  in  a  cupful  of  milk,  to  which  are  added 
two  beaten  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour.  Boil  up,  and  add  a  large  spoonful  of 
butter.  Place  the  chicken  in  a  deep  dish, 
pour  the  gravy  over  it,  and  serve.  In  all 
cases  where  beaten  ^^'g  is  added  to  a  hot 
liquid,  it  is  best  first  to  drop  a  little  into 
the  egg,  beating  while  doing  so,  to  heat  it 
gradually,  and  prevent  it  curdling,  as  it  will 
if  thrown  suddenly  into  hot  liquor. 

Broiled  Chicken. — Be  sure  that  your 
chicken  is  young.  If  in  doubt  as  to  this,  it 
is  best  to  make  it  tender  by  steaming.  Place 
sticks  across  a  dripping  pan  full  of  boiling 
water,  lay  the  chicken  upon  these,  cover 
with  a  tin  pan,  set  in  the  oven,  and  let  it 
steam  for  half  an  hour.  (The  chicken  should 
first  be  split  down  the  back  and  wiped  per- 
fectly dry).  Then  transfer  to  a  buttered 
gridiron,  inside  downward,  cover,  and  broil 
till  brown  and  tender,  turning  several  times. 
Put  into  a  hot  dish,  butter  well,  and  serve 
smoking  hot. 

Broiled  Chicken  on  Toast. — Broil  in  the 
usual  way,  and  when  the  fowl  is  thoroughly 
done  take  it  up  in  a  square  pan,  butter  it 
well,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  set 
it  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  Then  put 
slices  of  moistened  buttered  toast  on  a  plat- 
ter ;  lay  the  chicken  upon  it ;  add  to  the 
pan  gravy  part  of  a  cupful  of  cream  or  milk 
thickened  with  a  little  flour  ;  pour  over  the 
chicken,  and  serve. 

Stewed  Duck. — Prepare  the  fowls  by 
cutting  them  up,  in  the  same  way  as  chicken 
for  fricassee.  Lay  some  very  thin  slices  of 
salt  pork  upon  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan, 


i6 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


and  place  the  pieces  of  duck  upon  the  pork. 
Stew  slowly  for  an  hour,  closely  covered. 
Then  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage,  or 
minced  green  sage,  and  one  chopped  onion. 
Stew  another  half  hour,  or  until  the  duck  is 
tender.  Stir  a  large  tablespoonful  of  brown 
flour  in  a  little  water  and  add  it  to  the  stew. 
Let  it  boil  up,  and  serve  all  together  in  one 
dish,  accompanied  by  green  peas. 

Chicken  Croquettes. — Take  the  cold 
chicken,  chop  very  fine,  use  about  one- 
third  as  much  cracker  crumbs  (not  too  fine) 
as  you  have  meat.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper ;  add  one  ^^g  beaten,  and  cold  gravy  ; 
make  into  rolls  or  round  cakes,  dip  into 
batter,  fry  in  very  hot  drippings,  one-half 
butter  and  one-half  lard. 

Chicken  Hash. — Remove  the  meat  from 
the  bones  of  cold  stewed  chicken,  cut  into 
small  pieces,  putting  these  in  the  gravy. 
Set  on  the  fire  with  milk  enough  to  cover  ; 
add  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  thicken  with 
flour.  When  done,  serve  on  hot  buttered 
toast. 

Chicken  5tew. — Cook  the  fowl  in  the 
same  manner  as  for  fricassee.  When  the 
meat  is  tender  remove  it  from  the  water  and 
serve  with  a  sauce  prepared  with  the  liquid 
in  which  the  meat  was  boiled.  To  one  pint 
of  liquid  allow  the  following  ingredients  : 
One  tablespoonful  butter,  two  of  flour,  and 
one  of  parsley ,  if  desired  ;  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt  and  one-quarter  of  pepper. 

Chicken  Pie. — Boil  chicken  until  tender 
(one  year  old  is  best) ,  peel  half  dozen  pota- 
toes while  it  is  stewing.  To  make  the  crust, 
take  one  quart  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of 
baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  half  a  teacupful 
of  lard,  and  sufficient  water  to  make  a  stifi" 
dough  ;  roll  half  the  dough  to  the  thickness 
of  one-half  an  inch ;  cut  in  strips  and  line 
the  dish .  Put  in  half  the  chicken  and  half 
the  potatoes  ;  season  with  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt ;  dredge  well  with  flour  and  put  in 
some  of  the  crust  cut  in  small  pieces.  The 
other  half  of  the  chicken  and  potatoes  put 
in  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  dredge 
with  flour  as  before  ;  roll  out  the  rest  of  the 
dough  for  upper  crust.  Before  putting  on 
the  cover  fill  the  dish  nearly  full  of  boiling 


water,  put  in   the   oven   immediately,  and 
bake  one  hour. 

Smothered  Chicken. — Singe  a  young 
chicken  and  split  it  down  the  back  ;  take 
out  the  intestines ;  wipe  it  with  a  damp 
towel ;  lay  the  chicken  with  inside  down- 
ward in  the  baking  pan ,  breaking  the  breast- 
bone to  make  it  lie  flat ;  spread  the  breast 
with  a  quarter  pound  of  butter,  dredge  with 
pepper,  put  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half 
cup  of  water  in  baking  pan.  Place  in  a  hot 
oven,  let  it  bake  half  hour,  basting  every 
ten  minutes.  Now  remove  the  lid,  turn  the 
chicken,  baste  it  well  on  inside,  cover  and 
bake  another  half  hour  ;  when  done,  place 
on  a  hot  dish,  put  the  pan  in  which  the 
chicken  was  cooked  on  the  fire  to  brown,  add 
one  tablespoontul  of  flour  ;  stir  until  smooth 
and  brown,  add  half  cup  of  milk.  Stir 
constantly  until  it  boils ;  if  not  properly 
seasoned  add  salt  and  pepper  and  serve. 

Chicken  Salad. — Mince  the  white  meat 
of  a  cold  boiled  or  roasted  chicken,  remov- 
ing all  fat,  gristle,  or  skin.  Cut  celery  into 
bits  half  an  inch  long,  making  three-fourths 
the  bulk  of  the  chicken.  Mix  and  set 
aside,  while  preparing  the  dressing.  For 
this  rub  to  a  fine  powder  the  yolks  of  two 
hard-boiled  eggs,  add  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
salt  and  pepper,  and  two  of  white  sugar, 
and  then  three  teaspoonfuls  salad  oil,  a  few 
drops  at  a  time,  grinding  hard  while  doing 
so.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard, 
and  let  stand  while  you  whip  an  egg  to  a 
froth.  Beat  this  into  the  dressing,  add  a 
half  cup  of  vinegar,  beating  it  in  gradually. 
Sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  the  meat,  toss  it 
lightly  with  a  fork ;  pour  on  the  dressing, 
and  mix  till  thoroughly  combined.  Place 
in  salad  bowl,  and  garnish  with  ^%%  rings 
and  bleached  celery  tops.  Turkey  may  be 
used  instead  of  chicken.     Many  prefer  it. 

Roast  Game. — To  roast  a  partridge, 
grouse,  or  any  other  gallinaceous  bird,  is 
one  of  the  simplest  processes  of  cooking, 
yet  one  in  which  the  game  is  often  spoiled 
by  being  cooked  too  fast,  the  surface  be- 
coming scorched  before  the  flesh  is  fairly 
warmed  through.  By  this  means  the  flavor 
is  lost,  the  juices  dissipated,  and  the  natu- 
ral tenderness  of  the  meat  destroyed. 


32 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


I? 


The  birds  should  be  kept  at  such  a  dis- 
tance from  the  fire  that  the  flesh  may  be 
fully  heated  before  the  surface  becomes 
browned.  Then  move  slowly  nearer  the 
fire,  so  that  the  heat  may  fully  penetrate  the 
flesh.  The  birds  should  be  basted  occa- 
sionally with  their  own  drippings,  or  with 
melted  butter  slightly  seasoned.  Catch  the 
drippings  on  pieces  of  thin,  crisp  toast  laid  in 
the  pan,  one  small  slice  for  each  bird.  When 
nearly  cooked ,  dredge  the  birds  lightly  with 
flour  and  cracker  or  bread  crumbs.  This 
unites  with  the  juices  and  makes  a  beautiful 
brown  crust. 

The  process  should,  if  the  fire  be  brisk, 
occupy  about  twenty  minutes  for  a  par- 
tridge, thirty  for  a  grouse,  fifteen  for  a 
snipe,  plover,  or  woodcock.  Serve  each 
bird  on  a  slice  of  toast,  in  covered  hot 
dishes.  This  is  the  simplest  way  of  cook- 
ing every  variety  of  game  birds. 

Broiled  Game. — Partridges,  split  in  the 
back,  and  broiled  over  a  bright  fire,  with  a 
dressing  of  salt,  oepper  and  butter,  make 
an  excellent  dish.  Care  must  be  taken  not 
to  cook  them  too  fast,  or  the  same  difiiculty 
above  mentioned,  of  browning  the  outside 
before  the  flesh  is  warmed  through,  will 
result.  The  fire  should  not  be  too  hot,  nor 
the  gridiron  rest  too  near  it.  In  all  cases 
game  should  be  served  on  hot  dishes. 

Rail  and  Reed  Birds. — Rail,  when 
roasted  on  the  spit,  enveloped  in  greased 
paper,  are  very  good.  They  should  never 
be  stufied.  Fifteen  minutes  will  cook  them 
if  the  fire  be  brisk.  Reed  birds  are  best 
when  roasted  au  naturel  on  the  spit  before 
a  brisk  fire.  They  cook  better  enveloped 
in  greased  paper,  there  being  less  waste  of 
the  fat.  They  are  good,  also,  when  stuffed 
with  bread  crumbs,  butter,  and  a  little  of 
herbs  ;  and  also  when  nicely  broiled.  Some 
prefer  them  this  way  to  all  others. 

Fried  Rabbit. — Freeze  or  soak  in  salt 
water  over  night ;  cut  off  all  the  fat.  Boil 
tender,  changing  the  water  once  or  twice. 
Dip  in  a  batter  and  fry  in  hot  butter  and 
lard  mixed. 

Stewed  Rabbit. — Dress    and    freeze  or 
lay  in  salt  water  over  night,  boil  until  ten- 
der, season  with  butter,  and  make  dump- 
25  R  33 


lings,  same  as  biscuit  dough  ;  roll,  cut  in 
pieces  and  drop  them  in;  thicken  gravy  with 
a  little  flour  and  milk. 

Rabbit  Smotliered  in  Onions. — Parboil 
the  rabbit,  salt,  pepper,  and  roll  in  flour. 
Put  in  pot  alternately  a  layer  of  rabbit  and 
a  layer  of  onions.  Let  simmer  slowly  until 
done. 

Quail  on  Toast. — Pick  dry,  draw  and 
split  down  the  back  ;  wash  and  soak  in  salt 
water  a  few  minutes,  drain  and  dry  with  a 
cloth.  Broil  and  baste  often  with  butter; 
set  in  the  oven  with  bits  of  butter  on  each 
piece  and  brown  nicely.  (They  may  be 
fried  as  chicken  if  desired.)  Have  ready  as 
many  slices  of  buttered  toast  as  there  are 
birds  and  serve  with  breast  upward  on  each 
slice. 

Roast  Pigeon. — When  clean  and  ready 
for  roasting,  fill  with  dressing  made  same 
as  for  turkey  or  chicken.  They  must  be 
well  basted  with  melted  butter,  and  roast 
from  three-quarters  to  one  hour. 

Game  Pie. — When  several  kinds  of 
small  game  are  brought  in,  the  best  way  to 
utilize  them  is  to  stew  each  kind  tender, 
add  them  together  with  enough  butter  t-o 
make  the  gravy  rich ,  and  make  the  pie  by  lin- 
ing a  baking-pan  with  a  rich  crust  the  same 
as  for  chicken  pie  ;  put  in  the  game,  sea- 
soned with  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  of  the 
dough  for  dumplings,  and  the  gravy  after  it 
has  been  thickened  ;  add  top  crust,  pinch 
the  edges  together  like  pie ;  bake  half  an 
hour  in  a  hot  oven. 

Meats. 

What  we  call  flesh  is  chiefly  composed 
of  muscle,  with  a  certain  proportion  of  fat 
and  a  considerable  quantity  of  water.  A 
piece  of  fresh  beef,  thoroughly  dried,  will 
lose  three-fourths  of  its  weight.  Starch 
and  sugar,  which  compose  nearly  fifty  per 
cent,  of  wheat  bread,  are  absent  from  meat. 
For  this  reason  a  due  admixture  of  animal 
and  vegetable  food  seems  best  adapted  for 
the  nutrition  of  the  human  body. 

Wild  animals  have  usually  very  little 
fat.  Domestic  animals,  fed  for  the  market, 
have  often  a  large  proportion  of  it.  The 
flesh  of  heavy  sheep  may  be  three-fourths 


i8 


TH^  MODEL  cook  BOOtC 


fat.  Such  fattening  as  this  is  unprofitable 
to  the  consumer,  causing  much  waste. 
Good  meat  may  be  told  from  its  firmness 
and  elasticity  to  the  touch,  from  its  marbled 
appearance,  its  color,  between  pale  pink  and 
deep  purple,  its  lack  of  unpleasant  odor, 
and  its  slight  shrinkage  in  cooking. 

The  following  directions  for  the  choice 
of  meat  will  be  of  service  to  the  young 
housekeeper : 

To  Choose  Beef. — In  ox-beef  the  grains 
should  be  loose,  the  flesh  red,  and  the  fat  of 
a  fine  cream-color.  Cow-beef  has  a  closer 
grain,  a  whiter  fat,  and  meat  not  quite  so 
red.  Poor  beef  is  indicated  by  a  hard, 
skinny  fat,  a  dark- red  lean.  In  old  animals 
a  line  of  horny  texture  runs  through  the 
meat  of  the  ribs.  When  pressed  by  the 
finger  the  meat  should  rise  up  quickly,  if  it 
does  so  slowly,  age  is  indicated. 

Mutton. — The  meat  of  sheep  should 
have  a  firm,  close  grain  and  dark -red  color, 
the  fat  being  white  and  firm.  If  too  young, 
the  flesh  is  tender  when  pinched  ;  if  too  old, 
it  wrinkles  and  remains  so. 

Lamb. — ^This  meat  will  not  keep  long 
after  it  is  killed.  If  fresh  the  large  vein  in 
the  fore-quarter  should  be  bluish  in  color  ; 
if  stale  this  becomes  green.  The  flesh 
should  be  light-colored, and  juicy,  the  fat 
white  and  rich. 

Veal. — Good  veal  is  white,  smooth  and 
juicy ;  the  fat  white  and  firm.  The  flesh  of 
a  bull-calf  is  firmer  and  darker  than  that  of 
a  cow-calf.  If  stale,  the  color  changes 
quickly,  the  flesh  feels  moist  and  clammy, 
the  joints  flabbj'',  and  there  is  a  faint  musty 
odor. 

Pork. — Here  we  should  have  a  thin, 
smooth  rind,  cold  to  the  touch,  the  fat  must 
be  very  firm  and  the  lean  white.  The  rind 
of  young  pork  should  yield  easily  to  the 
finger.  The  flesh  should  be  smooth  and 
dry;  if  clammy,  it  is  tainted.  "Measly 
pork"  is  very  unwholesome,  and  may  be 
told  by  the  fat  being  full  of  enlarged  glands, 
or  kernels. 

Bacon. — This  should  have  a  thin  rind, 
and  firm  and  reddish  fat ;  the  flesh  a  tender, 
clear  red,  with  no  yellowish  mixture,  and 
clinging  closely  to  the  bone. 


34 


Ham. — To  judge  this,  put  a  knife  undei 
the  bone  and  up  to  the  knuckle.  If  part- 
icles of  meat  adhere  to  the  knife  or  the  odor 
is  unpleasant,  the  ham  is  not  good. 

Poultry. — In  selecting  poultry  choose 
those  that  are  full-grown,  but  not  old. 
When  young  and  fresh-killed,  the  eyes  are 
full  and  bright,  the  joints  neither  stifi"  nor 
flabby  ;  the  skin  is  thin  and  tender,  so  that  it 
may  be  easily  torn  with  a  pin  ;  the  breast- 
bone is  pliable,  yielding  easily  to  pressure. 
Fowls,  if  young,  have  a  hard,  close  vent, 
and  the  legs  and  comb  are  smooth.  Old 
turkeys  have  rough  and  reddish  legs  ;  young 
ones  smooth  and  black.  If  fresh  killed  the 
eyes  are  full  and  clear  and  the  feet  moist. 
A  goose,  if  young,  has  but  few  hairs,  a  yel- 
low bill,  and  is  limber- footed.  Ducks, 
when  fat,  are  hard  and  thick  on  the  belly  ; 
if  young  and  good,  they  are  limber- footed. 

Eggs. — Put  your  tongue  to  the  larger 
end  ;  if  it  feel  warm,  the  &^^  is  fresh.  Or 
put  the  ^%^  into  a  pan  of  cold  water ;  if  per- 
fectly fresh,  it  will  sink  immediately,  and  so 
in  proportion  to  its  freshness  ;  a  rotten  ^%% 
will  float  on  the  top  of  the  water. 

Of  ordinary  meats  mutton  is  at  once  the 
most  nutritious  and  the  easiest  of  digestion. 
Beef  is  usually  considered  more  strengthen- 
ing, but  demands  more  vigorous  digestive 
powers.  Veal  and  lamb,  though  tender, 
are  less  digestible  than  the  flesh  of  mature 
animals,  this  being  especially  the  case  with 
veal.  Of  all  meats,  however,  pork  stands 
first  in  the  rank  of  the  indigestible. 

When  meat  comes  from  the  market  it 
should  be  wiped  at  once  with  a  fresh,  damp 
cloth,  covered,  and  put  in  a  cool  place. 
Never  wash  fresh  meat,  as  cold  water  draws 
out  the  juice.  Remove  from  mutton  all  the 
pink  skin  attached  to  the  meat ;  if  left  it 
will  give  it  an  unpleasant  taste  when  cooked. 
The  organs  of  animals,  as  the  heart  and 
kidneys,  should  be  washed  thoroughly; 
salted  meats  need  washing  to  remove  the  salt. 

Modes  of  Cooking  Meats. 

Meat  may  be  boiled,  roasted,  stewed, 
fried,  or  prepared  in  other  ways.  Tender 
cuts  should  be  cooked  in  their  own  juices 
to  preserve  the  flavor.     The  meat  should  at 


TME  MobEL  COOK  Book 


19 


first  be  subjected  to  a  higb  temperature  to 
harden  the  albumen  on  the  outside  and  thus 
prevent  the  escape  of  the  internal  juices. 
Then  the  temperature  should  be  lowered 
to  180  degrees. 

Roasting. — In  roasting  the  object  is  to 
retain  all  the  juice  in  the  meat.  The  heat 
should  be  sharp  at  first,  for  the  reason  above 
stated,  and  then  reduced  so  that  the  al- 
bumen in  the  interior  may  be  gradually 
coagulated  without  shriveling  and  harden- 
ing the  fibre.  The  flesh  of  young  animals 
is  better  adapted  for  roasting  than  boiling, 
as  it  contains  more  of  those  principles  sol- 
uble in  water  and  which  may  be  boiled 
away.  Whenever  it  is  desired  to  retain  and 
increase  the  flavor,  roasting  is  the  better 
method.  This  applies  to  pork,  venison, 
and  game,  and  to  poultry  unless  it  be  lean 
and  old. 

Boiling. — Meat  properly  boiled  retains 
more  of  its  nutritious  properties  and  is  more 
easily  digested  than  if  cooked  in  any  other 
w^y.  It  loses  less  in  weight  than  by  either 
roasting  or  baking.  The  degree  of  extrac- 
tion of  juices  depends  on  the  degree  of  heat 
and  the  way  it  is  applied.  If  broth  is  de- 
sired the  meat  should  be  soaked  in  cold 
water,  and  the  heat  applied  gradually  and 
kept  below  the  boiling  point.  To  obtain 
stock  for  soup,  it  must  come  to  a  boil  and 
this  be  kept  up  for  some  time.  But  if  boiled 
meat  is  the  object,  the  joint  should  be 
plunged  at  once  in  boiling  water,  so  as  to 
coagulate  the  outer  albumen,  and  the  boil- 
ing kept  up  for  five  or  six  minutes.  Then 
the  temperature  should  be  brought  down 
to  160°  F.,  and  the  process  continued  till 
the  interior  is  fully  cooked. 

Baking. — In  baking  the  temperature  is 
more  equally  maintained,  and  there  is  less 
loss  of  the  sapid  contents  of  the  meat  than 
in  roasting.  The  joint  is  richer  in  flavor 
and  its  juices  more  fully  retained.  But  it  is 
less  suitable  for  delicate  stomachs.  Great 
care  must  be  taken  that  the  fat  does  not 
come  into  contact  with  the  hot  iron  of  the 
stove,  as,  if  burnt,  it  gives  unpleasant  and 
noxious  qualities. 

Stewing. — ^This  method  is  intermediate 
between  boiling  and  roasting,  and  is  much 


35 


the  best  method  of  rendering  the  meat 
tender,  juicy,  and  sapid.  Meat  that  would 
otherwise  be  quite  indigestible  may  be  thus 
utilized.  It  also  admits  of  combining  a 
number  of  articles,  both  animal  and  vege- 
table, and  is  often  the  best  way  to  employ 
canned  meats.  Hashing  is  the  same  pro- 
cess applied  to  meat  which  has  been  pre- 
viously cooked.  It  often  fails  for  this  rea- 
son, the  meat  being  made  tough  and  leath- 
ery. Very  little  water  is  needed  for  stew- 
ing, often  the  juices  proving  sufiicient,  if 
care  be  taken  to  prevent  burning. 

Broiling. — Broiling  has  much  the  same 
effect  as  roasting.  The  purpose  is  to  keep 
the  juice  in  the  meat,  which  is  held  over  a 
clear  fire  for  a  few  seconds,  until  the  albumen 
on  one  side  hardens.  As  soon  as  the  juice 
begins  to  rise  the  meat  is  turned  and  the 
albumen  on  the  other  side  hardened.  Con- 
tinue to  turn  the  meat  frequently  until  it  is 
cooked.  Frying,  a  very  common  method, 
produces  indigestible  meat,  the  fat,  upon 
which  the  gastric  juices  do  not  act,  being 
thoroughly  absorbed,  and  seriously  inter- 
fering with  digestion. 

Beef. 

Roast  Beef. — The  sirloin  and  rib  pieces 
of  the  beef  are  the  best  for  roasting — the 
latter  for  small  families.  Have  the  butcher 
remove  the  bone  and  skewer  the  meat  into  a 
round  shape.  It  is  better,  in  oven  roasting, 
to  dash  a  small  cup  of  boiling  water  over  the 
meat  when  first  put  in.  This  acts  to  check 
the  escape  of  the  juices  until  the  meat  is 
warmed  through.  If  very  fat  on  top,  cover 
with  a  paste  of  flour  and  water  till  nearly 
done.  Baste  frequently,  with  water  at  first, 
then  with  the  drippings.  A  quarter  of  an 
hour  to  the  pound  will  cook  it  rare ;  if  it  is 
to  be  well  done,  cook  longer.  Remove,  when 
done,  to  a  heated  dish,  and  make  gravy 
from  the  drippings,  or  serve  the  liquor 
which  runs  from  the  meat  when  cut.  Serve 
with  mustard,  or  vinegar  and  scraped  horse- 
radish . 

Yorkshire  Pudding. — This  is  an  ex- 
cellent addition  to  a  roast  of  beef.  To  make 
it,  take  one  pint  of  milk,  four  eggs — white 
and  yolks  beaten  separately — one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  sifted  through  two  cups  of  flour. 


20 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


These  should  be  mixed  very  smooth,  and 
made  about  the  cunsistency  of  cream.  On 
taking  the  roast  from  the  oven,  set  it  where 
it  will  keep  hot.  In  the  meantime  have 
the  pudding  prepared.  Take  two  common 
biscuit  tins  and  dip  into  them  some  of  the 
drippings  from  the  dripping-pan  ;  pour  half 
of  the  pudding  into  each,  set  them  into  the 
hot  oven,  and  keep  them  there  until  the 
dinner  is  dished  up.  Take  the  puddings 
out  at  the  last  moment  and  send  to  the  table 
hot.  This  is  much  better  than  the  old  way 
of  baking  the  pudding  under  the  meat. 

Broiled  Beefsteak. — Place  the  steak  in 
a  wire  broiler  ;  hold  it  over  the  fire,  near 
the  coals  ;  count  ten  slowly,  then  turn  it  ; 
continue  to  count  ten  and  turn  till  the  meat 
is  done.  From  five  to  seven  minutes  will 
cook  a  steak  an  inch  thick  ;  eight  to  ten 
minutes  if  an  inch  and  a  half.  Season  with 
salt  on  both  sides,  but  do  not  put  butter  on 
the  steak.     Serve  at  once  on  a  hot  platter. 

Pan=BroiIed    Steak   or    Chops.  —  Buy 

tender  meat.  Trim  off  all  the  fat  possible. 
Heat  a  frying-pan  very  hot,  so  that  it  hisses 
if  a  little  water  is  dropped  in.  L,ay  in  the 
meat,  count  ten,  and  turn  ;  count  and  turn 
again,  and  so  on  until  the  meat  is  cooked. 
A  steak  or  chops  one  inch  thick  will  require 
from  five  to  seven  minutes.  Season  and 
serve  in  the  same  manner  as  broiled  meats. 

Beefsteak     Smothered    in     Onions. — 

Season  the  steak  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  with  flour,  and  brown  in  hot  fat. 
When  done  on  one  side,  turn  and  put  in  the 
sliced  onions,  cover,  and  when  the  onions 
are  done  cover  with  water.  Cook  slowly 
four  or  five  minutes.  Or  fry  the  onions 
separately,  and,  when  done,  dish  the  steak 
and  lay  them  thickly  over  the  top. 

Rolled  Steak. — Take  a  round  steak, 
pound,  pepper  and  salt.  Take  bread 
crumbs  and  make  a  dressing  of  them  and 
spread  over  the  top  of  the  steak.  Roll  and 
tie  it  with  a  string.  Put  in  pan  and  roast 
forty  minutes. 

Beef  Stew. — Put  on  to  boil  in  three 
quarts  of  water  three  pounds  of  beef  with- 
out bone.  Let  boil  until  tender,  and  add 
potatoes ;    season   with    salt    and    pepper 


36 


When  well  done,  make  a  gravy  of  flour  and 

water,  and  serve  hot. 

English  Stew. — Cut  meat  in  slices, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour.  L,ay 
in  a  dish,  and  put  a  few  pickles  or  a  small 
quantity  of  pickled  cabbage  over  the  meac. 
Take  half  a  teacup  of  water,  add  a  little 
vinegar,  pour  over  the  meat,  bake  half  an 
hour.     Serve  immediately. 

Pot  Roast. — For  this  purpose  take  a 
tough  piece  of  meat.  Cut  off  some  of  the 
fat  and  melt  it  in  a  deep  frying-pan  or  iron 
kettle.  When  the  fat  is  hot,  put  in  the 
meat  and  brown  it  on  both  sides  to  harden 
the  albumen  and  keep  in  the  juice.  Add 
one  pint  boiling  water,  cover,  and  simmer 
slowly  until  tender  ;  then  add  one  teaspoon- 
ful  salt.  If  the  water  evaporates,  do  not 
add  any  more,  as  the  fat  will  finish  cooking 
the  meat. 

Boiled  Beef  to  Serve  Cold. — Take  a 
boiling  piece  of  beef,  roll  and  tie,  put  in 
kettle  with  boiling  water,  salt  and  pepper. 
Chop  fine  one  small  onion,  break  in  pieces 
two  bay  leaves,  boil  all  together  ;  add  boil- 
ing water  as  needed.  Boil  down  very  low. 
Let  cool  in  the  liquor.     Slice  cold. 

Hamburg  Steak. — Chop  finely  one 
pound  of  lean,  raw  beef,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  add  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice, 
one  &^%,  mix  all  together  and  make  into 
small  balls  or  cakes.  Broil  over  hot  coals, 
or  cook  in  a  small  quantity  of  smoking  hot 
fat.  The  steaks  are  much  better  if  allowed 
to  stand  several  hours  before  cooking,  so 
that  the  flavors  may  blend  before  the  cakes 
are  made  up.  They  may  be  served  with 
tomato  sauce. 

Meat  Croquettes. — One  cup  of  cold 
chopped  beef,  one  cup  bread  crumbs,  one 
^%%.  Pour  over  this  enough  of  the  hot 
liquor  to  make  quite  soft.  Add  salt  and 
pepper,  make  in  small  rolls,  dip  in  beaten 
^gg'  then  in  cracker  crumbs.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 

Spiced  Beef. — Four  pounds  of  round 
beef  chopped  fine,  trim  off  the  fat,  add  three 
dozen  crackers,  rolled  fine,  four  eggs,  one 
cup  milk,  one  tablespoonful  ground  mace, 
two  tablespoonfuls  pepper,  one  tablespoon- 
ful butter  ;  mix  and  put  in  pan,  and  baste 


Blackberry  Shortcake 


PRACTICAL  DIRECTIONS 
Sift  together  three  cups  of  pastry  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  six  level  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking-powder ;  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers,  well  floured,  work  in  one-third  a  cup 
ef  butter  and  mix  with  about  one  cup  and-a-half  of  milk  and  water  to  a  soft  dough  ;  spread 
in  two  buttered  pans,  smoothing  the  dough  with  a  knife  or  spoon.  When  baked,  butter 
the  under  crust,  and  put  together  with  two  baskets  of  blackberries  that  have  been  standing 
mixed  with  granulated  sugar  for  some  time.  Sprinkle  the  berries  on  top  of  the  cake  with 
powdered  sugar.  The  berries  between  the  cakes  and  a  part  of  those  on  top  may  be  niashed 
if  desired. 


'*^^?s 


PREPARING  DAINTY  DISHES. 

//  is  woman's  prtde  to  skilfully  and  intelligently  prepare  healthful 
food,  and  such  as  is  adapted  to  the  needs  of  her  family.  She  should  be 
]amiliar  with  the  principles  of  cooking  as  given  by  an  authority.  . 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


21 


with  water  and  butter  ;  bake  two  hours  in  a 
slow  oven. 

Curing  Fresh  Beef. — To  each  one  hun- 
dred pounds  of  beef  take  four  gallons  of 
water,  put  in  kettle,  also  six  pounds  com- 
mon salt,  two  ounces  saltpetre  ;  simmer  over 
slow  fire,  and  skim.  When  cold  pour  over 
beef,  which  should  be  loosely  packed .  Hang 
in  about  three  weeks,  or  put  in  new  brine, 
or  boil  and  skim  the  old. 

Beef  Tongue. — Wash  the  tongue  and 
soak  over  night  in  cold  water.  Put  it  into 
a  pot  of  cold  water,  and  boil  slowly  until  it 
is  tender  to  the  centre.  When  cold,  take 
it  from  water,  pare  off  the  skin ,  cut  in  round 
slices,  and  garnish  with  parsley.  Tongue 
is  considered  better  than  ham  for  sand- 
wiches. 

Pickled  Beef  Tongue. — Wash  tongue 
thoroughly,  soak  over  night  in  salt  water ; 
put  in  cold  water  and  cook  until  tender, 
remove  the  skin  while  warm  ;  put  in  stone 
jar,  cover  with  hot  vinegar  to  which  is  added 
one  teaspoonful  of  mixed  spices  •  This  will 
keep  for  some  time. 

Dried  Beef. — This  is  commonly  served 
raw,  shaved  into  thin  slices  ;  but  is  more 
savory  if  cooked.  Put  the  slices  into  a  fry- 
ing-pan, cover  with  boiling  water;  cook  for 
ten  minutes,  then  drain  and  cut  into  small 
bits.  Return  to  pan  with  a  little  butter,  and 
stir  into  the  pan  four  well-beaten  eggs  for  a 
half  pound  meat ;  stir  and  toss  the  mixture 
for  about  two  minutes.  Serve  in  a  covered 
dish. 

Boiled  Corned  Beef. — Skewer  your  piece 
into  shape,  wash  it  in  three  or  four  waters, 
and  tie  it  up  with  stout  twine.  Cover  it  in 
a  pot  with  cold  water.  In  boiling,  give 
about  twenty  minutes  to  a  pound,  turning  it 
three  times  while  cooking.  When  done, 
drain  dry  and  serve  with  drawn  butter  in  a 
sauce  boat.  Boiled  turnips  are  eaten  with 
the  meat. 

Roast  Veal. — Cook  veal  longer  than 
lamb  or  mutton,  allowing  at  least  a  quarter 
hour  to  each  pound.  Heat  gradually  and 
baste  frequently.  When  nearly  done,  dredge 
lightly  with  flour  and  baste  once  with  melted 
butter.     If  browning   too  fast,  cover  with 


white  paper.  Breast  and  fillet  of  veal  need 
to  be  filled  with  a  dressing  made  of  bread 
crumbs,  chopped  thyme  or  parsley,  season- 
ing, and  a  beaten  ^%z- 

Veal  Cutlets. — Sprinkle  the  cutlets  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  beaten  ^%^,  roll  in 
cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  drip- 
ping. A  little  boiling  water  may  be  added 
to  the  gravy  when  the  meat  is  dished,  and 
a  thickening  of  brown  flour. 

Veal  Stevs^. — Two  pounds  of  veal,  one 
tablespoonful  of  lard,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter ;  slice  one  medium  sized  onion  over 
the  meat,  add  one- half  teacup  of  vinegar,  as 
the  meat  stews  add  a  little  water.  Cook 
two  hours. 

Veal  Fricassee. — Take  two  lbs.  of  shank 
or  neck  of  veal,  remove  bones,  place  them 
in  a  saucepan,  season,  add  two  cups  cold 
water,  and  cook  slowly.  While  cooking 
slice  two  onions,  cut  the  meat  into  inch 
cubes,  remove  the  fat,  and  dredge  the  meat 
with  flour.  Fry  the  onions  brown  and  add 
to  the  water.  Brown  the  meat  slightly  and 
add.  Let  simmer  half  an  hour.  Cook  to- 
gether one  tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and 
butter,  add  gradually  half  cup  of  milk,  and 
stir  it  into  the  fricassee.  Boil  five  minutes 
and  serve. 

Calf's  Head. — After  washing,  take  out 
the  brains  and  put  in  a  cool  place.  Tie  the 
head  in  a  floured  cloth  and  boil  for  two 
hours,  adding  some  salt  to  the  water.  Wash 
and  carefully  pick  the  brains,  cleansing 
them  till  quite  white  ;  cover  with  water  and 
stew;  mash  smooth,  and  add  gradually  a  cup- 
ful of  the  water  in  which  the  meat  is  boiled. 
Season  with  butter,  parsley,  sage,  pepper 
and  salt.  Drain  the  head  very  dry,  score 
the  top  and  rub  it  over  with  melted  butter ; 
dredge  with  flour  and  set  in  the  oven  to 
brown.  When  served,  pour  the  gravy  over 
it.  Do  not  skin  the  head.  Mock-turtle 
soup  is  made  of  calf's  head,  chopped  fine, 
well  seasoned  and  boiled,  the  brains  being 
used  with  the  yolks  of  eggs  to  make  force- 
meat balls. 

Fried  Sweetbreads. — To  fry  sweet- 
breads, wash  carefully  and  rub  dry,  lard 
with  narrow  strips  of  fat  pork,  and  lay  in  a 
hot  frying-pan,  well  greased,  and  cook  to  ? 


23 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


fine  brown.      Turn  frequently,  till  the  pork 
is  crisp. 

Broiled  Sweetbreads.— Rub  well  with 
butter,  and  cook  on  a  clean  gridiron.  Turn 
frequently,  occasionally  rolling  on  a  plate 
with  some  hot  melted  butter.  This  keeps 
them  from  getting  dry  and  hard. 

•  Stewed  Sweetbreads. — Remove  a'l  skin 
and  fat,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  bring  to 
a  boil.  Pour  off  the  hot  water,  and  cover 
with  cold  until  they  are  firm.  Stew  a  sec- 
ond time  in  very  little  water.  When  tender, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  for  each  sweet- 
bread, with  pepper,  salt,  chopped  parsley 
and  a  little  cream.  Simmer  for  five  min- 
utes, and  serve  in  covered  dish,  with  the 
gravy  poured  in. 

Sweetbreads  with  Tomatoes. — Soak  in 
salt  water  for  one  hour  ;  take  out,  pepper 
and  dip  in  breadcrumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat, 
when  done  put  in  a  dish  md  pour  tomatoes 
over  sweetbreads.  Prepare  tomatoes  by 
straining  through  a  sieve  and  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  butter,  thicken  with  flour, 
cook  until  thick. 

Mutton. 

Roast  Leg  of  Mutton. — Remove  the 
bone  from  a  leg  of  muUon  and  mix  a  filling 
as  follows  :  one  cup  rolled  cracker  or  bread 
crumbs,  and  one  teaspoonful  each  of  salt 
and  sage,  with  sprinkle  of  pepper.  Mix 
these,  scald  a  little  dropped  onion—  if  liked 
— and  add  ;  moisten  with  milk  or  water. 
Sprinkle  the  cavity  with  salt,  fill  it  and  seW. 
Dredge  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour.  Place 
the  meat  on  a  rack  in  a  roasting-pan,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven,  allowing  twenty  min- 
utes to  a  pound.  Baste  once  in  fifteen  min- 
utes. When  done,  remove  the  strings  and 
put  the  meat  on  a  hot  platter.  Pour  off  the 
fat  from  the  pan,  stir  half  tablespoonful 
flour  into  the  browned  sediment,  add  one 
cup  boiling  water  and  boil  five  minutes. 
Strain  and  serve  as  a  gravy. 

Chickens  and  other  poultry  may  be 
filled  and  roasted  as  directed.  Beef  is  usu- 
ally roasted  without  filling,  and  mutton  fre- 
quently. 

Le§  of  Mutton  a  la  Venison. — After 
removing  the  rough  fat  from  the  mutton,  lay 


it  in  a  deep  earthen  dish,  and  rub  on 
thoroughly  the  following  compound  :  On.i 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  each  of  celery- 
salt,  brown  sugar,  black  pepper,  Englis^ 
mustard,  allspice,  and  some  sweet  herbs,  al 
powdered  and  mixed.  Then  pour  over  the 
meat  a  teacupful  of  good  vinegar,  covei 
tightly,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  four  or  five 
days,  turning  it  and  basting  often  with  the 
liquid  each  day.  To  cook,  put  in  a  kettle 
a  quart  of  boiling  water,  place  over  it  an  in- 
verted shallow  pan,  and  on  this  lay  the 
meat  just  as  removed  from  the  pickle ; 
cover  the  kettle  tightly  and  stew  four  hours. 
Do  not  let  the  water  touch  the  meat.  Add 
a  cup  of  hot  water  to  the  pickle  remaining 
and  use  it  to  baste  with.  Make  a  gravy  by 
thickening  the  liquid  with  flour  and  strain' 
ing  through  a  fine  sieve.  Serve  with  cur- 
rant jelly,  as  for  venison. 

Stuffed  Shoulder  of  Mutton. — Have 
the  butcher  remove  the  blade  from  a  shoul- 
der of  mutton.  Fill  the  cavity  thus  formed 
with  a  stuffing  of  well -seasoned  bread 
crumbs  and  a  half  pint  of  oysters.  Sew  up 
and  press  into  shape.  Baste  frequently  while 
roasting.  When  done  remove  all  fat  from 
the  drippings  in  the  pan  and  thicken 
slightly.  Parboil  another  half  pint  of  oys- 
ters and  add  to  the  gravy. 

Mutton  Chops. — Trim  off  the  superflu- 
ous fat  and  skin  from  your  chops,  if  not 
done  by  the  butcher  ;  dip  each  chop  in 
beaten  ^%z^  ^^^^  i^  cracker  dust,  and  fry  in 
hot  lard  or  dripping.  Omit  the  ^%%  if  de- 
sired. Sprinkle  the  chops  with  salt  before 
rolling  in  the  ^%%.,  or  salt  the  fat.  Serve 
dry  and  hot. 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops. — Mutton  chops 
should  be  cut  one  inch  thick.  Trim  off  the 
skin  and  the  greater  part  of  the  fat.  I,ay 
the  meat  in  a  wire  broiler  and  proceed  as  in 
broiling  steak.  It  requires  from  four  to  six 
minutes  to  cook  a  chop  one  inch  thick.  Sea- 
son chops  with  salt  and  pepper,  but  no  but- 
ter, and  serve  immediately  on  a  hot  platter 

Lamb  Chops  are  very  delicate  and  ten- 
der. Prepare  and  broil  them  in  the  same  way 
that  mutton  chops  are  broiled.  They  require 
longer  cooking  than  mutton  chops  and 
should  never  be  served  rare.     A  lamb  chop 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


23 


one  inch  thick  should  be  cooked  from  seven 
to  ten  minutes. 

Lamb  5tew. — Cut  the  lamb  into  small 
squares,  first  removing  the  fat.  Then  put 
on  in  stew-pan,  covering  with  water,  and  let 
heat  slowly.  When  partly  done  add  a  little 
sliced  salt  pork,  one  or  two  sliced  onions, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  two  or  three  cut-up 
potatoes.  Cover,  and  continue  to  stew  till 
the  meat  is  tender.  Then  drop  in  a  few 
small  dumplings,  stew  fifteen  minutes  more, 
and  serve.  The  gravy  should  be  thickened 
with  a  little  flour  moistened  with  milk. 

Spring  Lamb. — Bake  six  pounds  of 
meat  one  Lour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Season  when  put  to  roast.  Baste 
often.     Serve  with  mint  sauce. 

Mint  sauce  :  Take  a  handful  of  fresh  mint, 
wash  and  dry.  Take  leaves  and  chop  fine, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  of  water 
and  cover  tightly  for  one  hour  and  a  half. 
An  hour  before  serving  add  three-fourths 
cup  of  vinegar  and  serve  with  lamb  ;  add 
essence  of  mint  if  desired. 

Pork. 


Roast  Pork. — Prepare  pork  by  wash- 
ing. Score  the  skin  in  lines,  forming  little 
squares.  Have  a  moderately  hot  oven  ; 
baste  with  its  own  drippings  ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  The  time  required  de- 
pends on  size  of  roast. 

Roast  Spare  Rib.— Cover  the  meat 
with  a  greased  paper  until  half  roasted  ; 
then  remove  the  paper  and  dredge  with 
flour.  In  a  few  minutes  baste  with  its  own 
gravy.  Before  taking  up  strew  the  surface 
with  bread  crumbs  seasoned  with  powdered 
sage,  fine  chopped  onion,  pepper  and  salt. 
Cook  five  minutes  and  baste  again  with  but-' 
ter.  Skim  the  gravy,  pour  in  half  a  cup  of 
boiling  water,  thicken  with  flour,  season, 
and  pour  over  the  meat. 

Spare  Rib  with  Oysters. — Wash  ribs, 
wipe  dry,  salt  and  pepper.  Take  one  quart  of 
oysters,  one  dozen  crackers,  mash  fine,  salt 
and  pepper  and  roll  up  in  spare  ribs  and  pin 
with  wooden  tooth  pick. 

Roast  Pig. — Take  a  pig  about  six  weeks      vv«,o^  ^^.^  ^^^ 
old,  wash  it  thoroughlyj  and  rinse  out  the  '  or  coarse  cloth 

39 


inside  again  with  water  containing  a  little 
baking  soda.  Wipe  with  a  fresh  towel, 
salt  the  inside,  and  stuff  with  the  prepared 
dressing ;  making  the  pig  plump,  so  as  to 
give  it  its  original  size  and  shape.  Sew  it 
up,  place  it  in  a  kneeling  posture  in  the 
dripping-pan,  and  tie  the  legs  in  proper 
position.  Pour  into  the  pan  a  little  hot 
salted  water,  and  baste  with  butter  and 
water  a  few  times  as  the  pig  warms  ;  after- 
wards baste  with  gravy  from  the  pan. 
When  the  meat  begins  to  smoke  rub  it  often 
with  a  rag  dipped  in  melted  butter.  This 
will  keep  the  skin  from  cracking  while  still 
keeping  it  crisp.  Roast  for  two  or  three 
hours.  To  make  the  gravy,  skim  off  most 
of  the  grease,  stir  into  that  remaining  in  the 
pan  a  good  tablespoonful  of  flour,  with 
water  enough  to  make  it  the  right  consist- 
ency, season  with  pepper  and  let  it  boil  up 
once.  Strain,  and  add  half  a  glass  of  wine, 
if  preferred.  Turn  into  a  gravy  boat. 
Place  the  pig  upon  a  large,  hot  platter,  sur- 
rounded with  parsley  or  celery  tops  ;  place 
a  green  wreath  around  the  neck,  and  a  sprig 
of  celery  in  its  mouth.  In  carving,  cut  off 
the  head  first,  then  split  down  the  back, 
take  off  the  hams  and  shoulders,  and  separ- 
ate the  ribs. 

Pork  Steaks. — Remove  the  skin  and 
trim  neatly.  Broil  over  a  brisk  fire.  Sea- 
son after  taking  up  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little 
sage  and  minced  onion.  Cover  and  set  in 
the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Spare  ribs  can 
be  cooked  in  the  same  manner. 


Salt  Pork  Fried  in  Batter, — Prepare  as 
for  plain  fried  pork,  fry  without  putting  in 
flour.  When  ready  to  remove  from  drip- 
ping pan  dip  in  a  batter  made  as  fol- 
lows :  One  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  milk, 
two  of  flour,  add  a  little  salt,  and  dip  the 
fried  pork  into  the  batter.  Put  quickly 
back  into  the  hot  drippings,  fry  a  light 
brown,  and  serve  as- soon  as  possible. 

Pork  Chops. — Season  pork  with  salt  and 
pepper,  beat  up  an  egg,  dip  the  pork  in  the 
egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  or  corn  meal, 
fry  in  plenty  of  lard,  boiling  hot. 

Boiled    Ham. — Soak   over    night,    and 

wash  hard  next  morning  with  a  stiff  brush 

Put  on  to  boil  with  plenty 


24 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


of  water.  Do  not  boil  too  fast,  and  allow 
fifteen  minutes  to  each  pound.  Do  not  re- 
move skin  until  cold.  Prepare  for  table  by 
garnishing  with  dots  of  pepper  or  dry  mus- 
tard, and  with  parsley  around  the  sides. 

Broiled  Ham. — Cut  in  slices,  soak  well 
in  scalding  water,  wipe  dry,  and  lay  in  cold 
water  for  five  minutes.  Wipe  again,  and 
broil  over  a  clear  fire.  Pepper  before  serv- 
ing. To  fry  ham,  prepare  as  for  broiling, 
and  cook  in  a  hot  frying-pan,  turning  often. 
Serve  with  or  without  the  gravy. 

Baked  Ham, — Boil  a  ten  pound  ham  in 
water  enough  to  cover,  to  this  add  two 
pounds  of  brown  sugar.  Boil  three  hours, 
then  skim.  Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  dry  mus- 
tard and  one  of  sugar,  sprinkle  over  the  fat 
side ,  and  bake  from  three  quarters  to  one  hour. 

Devilled  Ham. — Take  cold  roast  ham  5 
chop  fine  ;  make  a  dressing  of  pepper,  mus- 
tard, and  vinegar  ;  mix  thoroughly  with  the 
ham.     This  is  very  suitable  for  sandwiches. 

Broiled  Ham  and  Bacon. — Cut  ham  into 
halt-inch  slices,  or  thinner.  Trim  off  the 
outside  skin.  Broil  in  a  hot  dry  par,  or  over 
the  coals,  until  it  is  a  delicate  brown  in 
color,  turning  it  frequently.  When  done 
serve  on  a  hot  platter. 

To  cook  bacon,  cut  it  into  very  thin 
slices  and  broil  it  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  pan 
or  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  it  very  often. 
It  should  be  of  a  delicate  golden-brown 
color  when  done.     Serve  on  a  hot  platter. 

Pork  Pie. — One  pound  of  pork  chopped 
in  small  pieces,  four  good  sized  potatoes 
chopped  in  squares,  cover  over  with  water 
and  cook  until  tender.  Cook  meat  awhile 
before  putting  potatoes  in.  Make  a  gravy 
and  pour  over  ;  save  out  some  of  the  gravy 
to  pour  over  when  baked.  Make  a  short 
dough  same  as  for  pies,  with  a  little  baking 
powder  in  it.  Line  a  small  bread  pan  with 
crust,  put  in  meat  and  gravy,  cover  with 
upper  crust  and  bake  until  brown. 

Ham  Pie. — Make  a  crust,  the  same  as 
for  biscuit,  line  pan  with  dough  ;  then  put  in 
a  layer  of  potatoes  sliced  thin,  pepper  and 
salt,  and  a  little  butter,  then  a  layer  of  lean 
ham,  add  water  and  cook  slowly. 

Pigfoot  Sauce. — Cutoff  the  toes,  scrape 
clean     and   wash    thoroughly,    and   singe. 


40 


Put  in  water,  boil  and  skim.  -Pour  off  the 
water  and  add  fresh,  then  salt,  and  some 
lean  pieces  cut  from  the  head,  or  other  part 
of  the  hog.  Boil  until  ready  to  fall  to  pieces  ; 
dip  out  and  pick  all  the  bones  out.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  the  lean  meat 
with  the  fat,  but  do  not  chop.  Press  in  a 
crock  and  set  away  to  cool.  Slice  thin  and 
pour  vinegar  over  it  a  few  minutes  before 
serving. 

Head  Cheese. — Boil  the  forehead,  ears, 
and  feet,  and  trimmings  from  the  hams  of  a 
fresh  pig.  Continue  until  the  meat  is  ready 
to  drop  from  the  bones.  Then  separate  the 
meat  from  the  bones,  put  it  in  a  large  chop- 
ping-bowl,  and  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
sage,  and  summer  savory.  Chop  it  rather 
coarsely  ;  put  it  back  in  the  boiling  kettle, 
with  enough  of  the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in 
to  prevent  its  burning,  and  warm  it  thor- 
oughly, mixing  the  ingredients  well.  Then 
pour  into  a  strong  muslin  bag,  press  the  bag 
between  two  fiat  surfaces  under  a  heavy 
weight.  When  cold  and  solid  it  can  be  cut 
and  served  in  slices. 

Boston  Pork  and  Beans. — Carefully  pick 
a  quart  of  small,  white  beans,  and  let  them 
soak  over  night  in  cold  water.  In  the  morn- 
ing wash  and  drain  in  fresh  water.  Set  on 
to  boil  in  plenty  of  cold  water,  in  which  is  a 
piece  of  soda  the  size  of  a  bean.  After  they 
come  to  a  boil  drain  again,  cover  again  with 
water,  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  until 
the  skin  of  the  beans  will  crack  when  taken 
out  and  blown  upon.  Next  drain  the  beans, 
put  into  an  earthen  pot,  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  salt,  and  cover  with  hot  water.  Place 
in  the  centre  of  the  pot  a  pound  of  salt  pork, 
first  scalding  it  with  hot  water,  and  scoring 
the  rind  across  the  top  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
apart.  Place  in  the  oven,  and  bake  six 
hours  or  longer,  keeping  the  oven  at  a  mod- 
erate heat.  Add  hot  water  from  the  tea- 
kettle as  needed,  so  as  to  keep  the  beans 
moist.  When  the  meat  becomes  crisp  and 
looks  cooked  remove  it,  as  too  long  baking 
destroys  the  solidity  of  the  pork. 

Venison. 

Venison  Cutlets. — Trim  your  cutlets 
nicely,  using  the  trimmings  to  make  gravy, 
in  the  proportion  of  half  a  pound  to  a  cup  of 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


25 


water.  Put  in  bones,  fat,  etc.,  and  let  stew 
in  a  saucepan  while  you  prepare  the  cutlets. 
When  the  gravy  has  stewed  an  ht)ur,  strain 
and  let  it  cool. 

Lay  the  cutlets  in  a  saucepan,  with  a 
little  onion  to  each.  Also  a  little  minced 
thyme  and  parsley,  pepper,  and  very  little 
nutmeg.  When  all  ready,  pour  in  your 
warm  gravy.  Stew  twenty  minutes.  Then 
lay  the  cutlets  in  a  frying-pan,  and  fry 
quickly  for  five  minutes,  turning  frequently. 
Lay  in  a  chafing-dish,  pour  in  the  gravy, 
having  added  to  it  a  little  sauce,  currant 
jelly,  half  a  glass  of  wine,  and  flour  thick- 
ening. Let  all  stand  in  hot  place  five  min- 
utes before  serving. 

Roast  Venison. — Wash  and  dry  v,'ith  a 
cloth.  Butter  a  sheet  of  white  paper  and 
put  over  the  fat.  Put  in  roasting  pan  with  a 
little  boiling  water.  Cover  closely ;  cook 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  two  or  three 
hours.  Baste  occasionall3^  Twenty  min- 
utes before  it  is  done  quicken  the  fire,  remove 
lid  and  paper,  dredge  with  flour,  butter,  salt 
and  pepper.  Return  to  oven  and  brown. 
Make  a  gravy  from  its  own  drippings,  having 
first  removed  the  fat.  Have  meat  platter  very 
hot  for  venison  and  serve  with  currant  jelly. 

Hashes  and  Sandwiches. 

Potato  and  Meat  Pie. — Chop  cold  meat 
fine,  removing  the  bones,  fat  and  gristle. 
Put  the  meat  into  a  pudding-dish,  measur- 
ing it  to  find  the  quantity.  To  each  cup  of 
meat  pour  one-third  cup  of  gravy  or  stock, 
or  one- quarter  cup  water.  Taste  the  gravy, 
stir  in  one-quarter  tablespoonful  salt,  a 
sprinkle  of  pepper,  and  a  few  drops  of  onion 
juice  or  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Boil  and 
mash  potatoes,  and  spread  the  mashed  pota- 
toes as  a  crust  over  the  meat  and  gravy. 
Smooth  the  crust,  and  bake  the  pie  on  the 
grate  of  the  oven  until  golden-brown.  It 
Kvill  require  from  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes. 

Hash. — Chop  the  meat  as  in  the  pre- 
ceding recipe.  To  each  cup  of  meat  add 
two  cups  mashed  potatoes,  one-half  table- 
spoonful  salt  and  a  sprinkle  of  pepper.  Mash 
together  thoroughly.  Put  one-half  table- 
spoonful  drippings  into  a  fry-pan .  When  the 
fat  smokes  scrape  in  the  hash,  and  let  it 
cook  slowly  until  browned  on  the  bottom 


41 


Fold  over  in  the  middle,  and  serve  on  a  hot 
platter.  Stewed  tomatoes  or  onion  juice  or 
boiled  onions  chopped,  if  added  to  the  hash, 
will  improve  it. 

Vegetable  Hash. — To  the  ingredients  ol 
the  abo-^^e  recipe  add  chopped  beets,  turnips, 
beans,  or  a  little  cabbage.  One  or  all  of 
these  vegetables  may  be  used.  Moisten  the 
mixture  with  milk,  put  it  in  a  saucepan, 
and  stir  it  twenty  minutes  over  the  fire, 
until  the  milk  is  absorbed  and  the  hash  is 
thoroughly  cooked.  The  hash  may  be  put 
in  a  covered  kettle  and  set  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  two  or  three  hours.  The  long, 
slow  cooking  causes  the  flavors  of  the  vege- 
tables to  blend,  and  gives  it  a  rich  taste. 

Baked  Hash. — Chop  meat  fine,  put  a 
layer  of  meat  in  the  baking  pan,  then  a  layer 
of  potatoes,  mashed  or  cut  in  cubes,  then  a 
layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Season  with  butter, 
salt  and  pepper,  enough  water  to  moisten. 
Bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour. 

Ham  Sandwiches. — Four  pounds  of  ham 
chopped  fine .  Dressing  :  Yolks  of  four  eggs . 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  small 
teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  black  pepper,  juice  of  one  lemon,  a  little 
cayenne  pepper  if  desired .  Cook  until  thick ; 
mix  with  ham  and  spread  between  slices  of 
buttered  bread. 

Dried  Beef  Sandwiches. — Chop  dried 
beef  fine,  removing  all  stringy  pieces .  Spread 
between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread .  These 
are  much  easier  to  digest  than  ham  sand- 
wiches. 

Tongue  Sandwiches. — Wash  the  tongue 
and  soak  over  night  in  salt  water,  put  on  in 
cold  water,  boil  until  tender,  take  out,  re- 
move skin  while  warm,  when  cold  chop 
fine.  Make  a  dressing  as  follows  :  Yolks  of 
four  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  one 
small  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful pepper,  juice  of  one  lemon  ;  cook 
until  thick  and  mix  with  chopped  tongue, 
and  spread  between  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

Salmon  Sandwiches. — One  can  of  sal- 
mon chopped  fine,  one  cup  bread  crumbs, 
one  ^^Z-,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter ; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  mis.  well, 
and  put  in  two  greased  one-pound  baking 


26 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


powder  cans,  with  lids  on ;  boil  one  and  a  half 
hours,  then  take  out  of  cans  and  brown  in 
the  oven.  When  cold,  slice  thin  and  place 
between  slices  of  bread. 

Oyster  Sandwiches. — Take  a  pint  of 
raw  oysters  and  chop  them  very  fine.  Add 
salt  and  pepper.  Put  them  in  the  chafing 
dish  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  dry  biscuit  crumbs  ;  after 
cooking  for  five  minutes  they  are  ready  to 
make  up  into  sandwiches. 

Cucumber  Sandwiches. — Slice  cucum- 
bers thin  and  place  in  salt  water  on  ice  until 
ready  to  use.  Butter  sparing!/  thin  slices 
of  wheat  bread ;  roil  the  cucumbers  in 
Mayonnaise  dressing  and  place  between  two 
slices  of  bread. 

Lettuce  Sandwiches. — Slice  thin  nice 
homemade  bread,  at  least  one  day  old,  spread 
thin  with  good  butter  ;  cut  in  desired  shape, 
dip  lettuce  leaf  in  Mayonnaise  dressing  and 
lay  between. 

Eggs 

Eggs  form  a  valuable  food  and  should  be 
used  as  a  substitute  for  meats  and  in  com- 
bination with  starchy  foods.  Fresh  eggs 
should  always  be  used,  if  obtainable. 

If  eggs  are  placed  in  boiling  water  and 
allowed  to  boil,  the  white  becomes  tough 
and  indigestible  and  the  yoke  undercooked  ; 
therefore  they  should  be  cooked  at  a  tem- 
perature below  boiling  point. 

Boiled  Eggs  (A). — Have  a  saucepan  of 
boiling  water.  Remove  to  the  back  of  the 
stove  where  the  water  will  not  boil  and  add 
the  eggs,  being  careful  that  there  is  sufficient 
water  to  cover  them.  L,et  them  stand  from 
seven  to  ten  minutes  if  required  soft — forty 
to  forty-five  minutes  if  wanted  hard. 

Boiled  Eggs  (B). — Cover  the  eggs  with 
cold  water  and  place  over  fire.  When  the 
water  begins  to  boil  they  will  be  cooked 
properly  for  soft  boiled  eggs.  If  allowed  to 
remain  four  or  five  minutes  they  will  be 
hard  boiled. 

riustard  Eggs. — Remove  shells  from 
one  dozen  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  in  halves, 
take  out  yolks,  add  to  them  salt,  ground 
mustard  and  pepper,  mix  all  together,  add 


vinegar  to  moisten  ;  then  fill  whites   with 
the  yellow  mixture  and  serve. 

Poached  Eggs. — Break  eggs,  one  at  a 
time,  into  a  cup.  Put  a  quart  of  boiling 
water  and  half  teaspoonful  salt  into  a  sauce- 
pan. Let  it  boil,  then  move  it  back  on  the 
stove  so  that  it  will  just  cease  to  bubble. 
Place  muffin  rings  in  the  pan.  Drop  the 
eggs  into  the  rings  one  at  a  time,  and  cook 
until  the  white  is  firm.  Serve  them  on  toast, 
with  a  sprinkle  of  salt  on  each  ^%%. 

Fried  Eggs. — Break  the  shells  and  drop 
the  eggs  one  by  one  in  hot  fat ;  dip  the  fat  over 
them  until  the  white  is  set ;  dust  with  pep- 
per and  salt  and  serve  hot ;  cook  from  three 
to  five  minutes,  according  to  taste.  These 
are  less  digestible  than  poached  eggs,  the 
hot  fat  making  the  albumen  leathery. 

Scrambled  Eggs. — Beat  six  eggs  very 
light ;  add  a  little  salt,  eight  tablespoonfuls 
of  milk,  and  a  small  lump  of  butter.  Put 
in  a  hot  skillet  and  stir  constantly  until  the 
eggs  harden. 

Pickled  Eggs.  —  One  pint  of  strong 
vinegar,  one  half  pint  cold  water,  a  tea- 
spoonful each  of  cinnamon,  allspice  and 
mace ;  boil  eggs  till  very  hard,  remove 
shell  ;  put  on  the  spices  tied  in  a  white  mus- 
lin bag  in  cold  water,  boil  and,  if  water 
wastes  away,  add  enough  so  as  to  have  half 
a  pint  when  done,  add  vinegar  and  pour 
over  the  eggs,  put  in  as  many  eggs  as  the 
mixture  will  cover. 

Sauce  for  Eggs. — Boil  six  eggs  hard 
and  make  a  sauce  of  one  lump  of  butter,  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one  pint  of  milk, 
mix  the  butter,  milk  and  flour  together  and 
boil.  Slice  the  eggs  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  them. 

Plain  Omelet. — Beat  two  eggs,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  milk  or  water,  and  one  quarter 
teaspoonful  salt.  Heat  the  pan,  put  in  one 
teaspoonful  butter,  and  when  it  melts  pour 
in  the  mixture.  Cook  the  omelet  slowly. 
As  it  hardens  beneath,  raise  it  with  a  broad 
knife  and  let  the  liquid  portion  run  under  ; 
do  this  at  different  sides  of  the  pan.  When 
dry,  roll  the  omelet  away  from  the  handle 
of  the  pan.     Serve  on  a  hot  platter. 

Foamy  Omelet. — Separate  the  eggs. 
Beat  tfap  yolks  and  add  salt  and  one  table- 


42. 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


27 


pjjooiiful  milk  for  each.  yolk.  Beat  the  whites 
until  stiff  and  fold  lightly  into  the  liquid. 
Melt  some  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  when  hot 
pour  in  the  mixture  and  brown.  Then 
place  the  omelet  in  the  oven  to  dry  the  top. 
Fold  and  serve  immediately. 

Foamy  Omelet  with  Jelly. — Separate 
the  eggs  ;  beat  the  yolks  and  add  one  table- 
spoonful  milk  for  each  &%%,  a  saltspoonful 
of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  flour.  Put  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  a 
skillet  and  when  it  begins  to  bubble  turn  in 
the  omelet.  Fry  to  a  golden  brown,  remove 
carefully  from  the  skillet,  spread  with  an 
acid  jelly,  fold  over,  and  place  in  lettuce 
leaves.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff, 
sweeten  slightly  and  put  a  thick  coating  on 
top  the  omelet. 

Meat  Omelet. — Mix  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  chopped  meat  with  the  plain  omelet  and 
cook  as  directed.  A  little  chopped  parsley 
may  be  added.  When  the  omelet  is  cook- 
ing, spread  chopped  meat  over  half  the  top 
and  fold  double.  Oysters,  whole  or  chopped, 
or  stewed  tomatoes,  may  replace  the  meat. 

Ham  and  Eggs. — Fry  the  eggs  in  lard, 
and,  after  draining  off  all  grease,  lay  them 
on  a  hot  dish,  with  neat  slices  of  fried  ham 
around  the  edges.  Trim  the  eggs  to  smooth 
edges,  and  cut  the  ham  evenly  in  oblong 
pieces.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Vegetables  and  Their 
Preparation. 

In  the  cooking  of  vegetables  it  should 
be  borne  in  mind  that  all  woody  tissues, 
whether  in  the  roots  or  stalks,  the  husks  or 
skins,  are  nearly  devoid  of  nutriment  and 
quite  indigestible  ;  they  should,  therefore, 
be  removed.  Vegetables  should  generally 
be  boiled,  this  being  continued  long  enough 
to  disintegrate  the  tissues  and  allow  the 
starch  granules  to  break  up.  The  saline 
and  saccharine  constituents  being  extracted 
by  the  water,  vegetables  lose  some  of  their 
main  elements — especially  if  the  water  be 
soft.  This  renders  it  advisable  to  add  a 
little  salt  to  the  water.  The  salt  also  acts 
to  preserve  the  color  of  green  vegetables. 
The    garden    vegetables    of    this    country 


43 


are  numerous  and  varied  in  character,  and 
may  be  served  in  many  ways.  Chief  among 
them  are  potatoes  and  tomatoes,  which  rank 
amid  the  most  constant  constituents  of  meals. 

Boiled  Potatoes  {with  the  ski7is) . — Select 
potatoes  of  uniform  size,  wash  well  in  salted 
water  and  boil  till  a  fork  will  penetrate  with 
ease  to  the  center  of  the  largest.  Then 
pour  off  the  water,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
dry  over  the  fire.  Peel  quickly  and  serve 
in  an  open  dish. 

Without  the  Skins. — Pare  very  thin,  so 
as  to  preserve  the  starch,  much  of  which 
lies  next  the  skin.  To  this  the  mealiness 
of  the  potato  is  due.  Leave  them  half  a'l 
hour  in  cold  water,  then  put  in  slightly 
salted  boiling  water  and  boil  gently  till 
tender.  Drain,  salt,  and  dry  as  above. 
Some  varieties  of  potatoes  cook  best  by 
putting  on  in  cold  water  and  bringing  to  a 
boil;  others  best  as  above  directed. 

Fried  Potatoes. — Pare,  wash  and  slice 
some  new  potatoes,  or  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  lightly 
in  dripping  or  butter,  turning  them  con- 
stantly until  nicely  browned. 

Saratoga  Chips. — Peel  good-sized  pota- 
toes, and  slice  them  as  evenly  as  possible. 
Drop  them  into  ice-water ;  put  a  few  at  a 
time  into  a  towel  and  press,  to  dry  the  mois- 
ture out  of  them.  Then  drop  them  into  a 
pan  of  simmering  hot  lard.  Stir  occasion- 
ally, and  when  of  a  light  brown,  sprinkle 
with  salt  ;  take  them  out  with  a  perforated 
skimmer,  shake  both  an  instant.  They 
will  be  crisp  and  not  greasy. 

Potato  Croquettes. — Take  two  cups  of 
cold  mashed  potato,  season  with  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  pepper,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter. Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  thor- 
oughly and  add.  Make  into  small  balls,  dip 
them  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then 
roll  either  in  flour  or  cracker  crumbs ;  fry 
the  same  as  fish-balls. 

Baked  Potatoes. — Wash  some  large 
potatoes,  wipe,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
till  tender.  Break  the  skins  that  the  steam 
may  escape.  Serve  in  a  napkin  with  the  skins 
on.  Three  quarters  to  an  hour  should 
suffice  to  cook  them, 


28 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


Lyonnaise  Potatoes. — Cut  cold  boiled 
potatoes  into  cubes,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Fry  two  tablespoonfuls  chopped 
onions  in  an  equal  quantity  of  beef  dripping 
or  butter  till  light  brown  ;  then  put  in  the 
potato  and  cook  till  it  takes  up  the  fat. 
Add  some  chopped  parsley  and  serve.  The 
flavor  will  be  improved  by  a  teaspoonful  of 
vinegar. 

Creamed  Potatoes. — Cut  four  cold  po- 
tatoes into  cubes  or  slices,  and  put  them, 
with  a  half  cup  of  milk,  into  a  pan  or  double 
boiler  ;  cook  till  they  have  absorbed  nearly 
all  the  milk.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  but- 
ter, cook  five  minutes  longer,  and  serve  hot. 
You  may  add  to  the  seasoning  a  little 
chopped  parsley. 

Potato  Puff. — Beat  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  and  add  salt  and  pepper.  Add  two 
tablespoonfuls  butter  to  a  cup  of  hot  milk, 
mix  it  into  the  potatoes,  and  beat  in  the 
yolks.  Beat  the  whites  till  stiff,  and  pour 
into  the  potato.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  twenty  minutes,  or  until  the  mixture 
browns  and  puffs  up. 

Roast  Potatoes  with  Beef. — Pare  po- 
tatoes and  place  in  roasting  pan  with  beef, 
basting  when  you  do  the  beef;  let  bake 
until  tender  and  brown. 

Mashed  Potatoes. — To  four  medium- 
sized  potatoes,  measure  one  tablespoonful 
butter,  quarter  teaspoonful  salt,  a  sprinkle 
of  pepper,  eight  tablespoonfuls  milk,  heated. 
Mash  the  hot  potatoes  in  the  saucepan  in 
which  they  were  boiled.  Beat  with  a  wire 
masher  until  light,  and  serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

hrown  Potato  Balls. — Mash  and  sea- 
son cold  baked  or  boiled  potatoes,  or  use 
cold  mashed  potatoes.  Roll  the  potato  mix- 
ture into  balls,  oi  pat  into  flat  cakes.  Place 
on  a  buttered  tin,  put  a  small  piece  of  butter 
on  top  of  each,  and  bake  on  the  grate  of  a 
hot  oven  until  golden-brown. 

Surprise  Balls. — Roll  the  potato  balls 
as  above,  and  with  a  teaspoon  press  a  hol- 
low in  the  top.  Chop  fine  some  cold,  lean 
meat,  season  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
put  one  Len spoonful  of  the  meat  into  the 
hollow  of  the  potato  ball.  Put  a  little  but- 
ter on  the  top  of  each  ball,  and  brown  in  the 
even  on  the  grate. 


44 


Scalloped  Potatoes. = Butter  a  baking 
dish,  pare  potatoes  and  slice  them  thin,  put 
in  dish  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  a  layer  of 
onions,  a  few  bread  crumbs,  sprinkle  each 
layer  with  salt  and  pepper  and  butter,  keep 
on  this  way  till  dish  is  nearly  full,  then  fill 
with  milk  or  cream,  cover  and  bake  one 
hour.     The  onions  may  be  omitted. 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes. — Choose  po- 
tatoes of  the  same  size,  if  possible.  Put  into 
boiling  salted  water,  and  cook  till  a  fork  will 
easily  pierce  the  largest.  Pour  off  water 
and  let  dry  in  oven  for  five  minutes.  Peel 
before  serving. 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes. — Scrape  and 
slice  sweet  potatoes,  sprinkle  a  little  salt 
over  them,  use  lard  and  butter  in  frying-pan. 
put  in  potatoes  and  fry  brown .  Serve  very  hot, 

Stewed  Sweet  Potatoes. — Use  small 
sweet  potatoes,  pare  and  boil  tender.  Make 
thickening  of  cream  and  flour  ;  pour  over  po- 
tatoes, let  boil ;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Fried  Tomatoes. — Wash  the  tomatoes 
and  cut  them  in  slices  without  removing  the 
skin.  Mix  together,  sprinkle  pepper,  quar- 
ter teaspoonful  salt  and  tablespoonful  flour, 
and  dredge  the  slices  thoroughly  on  both 
sides.  Have  ready  in  the  frying  pan  enough 
melted  butter  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the 
pan,  and  when  hot  lay  in  the  tomatoes. 
When  cooked,  place  them  on  a  hot  dish 
and  keep  them  hot.  Add  half  cup  milk  or 
water  to  the  liquid  in  the  pan.  Melt  and 
brown  together  half  tablespoonful  butter, 
half  tablespoonful  flour  and  quarter  tea- 
spoonful salt,  acd  add  the  liquid  from  the 
pan.  Pour  through  a  wire  strainer  and 
serve  with  the  tomatoes. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. — Pour  boiling  water 
on  them  to  loosen  the  skins  ;  peel  and  cut 
up,  extracting  all  hard  and  unripe  parts. 
Stew  in  a  saucepan  half  an  hour  ;  then  add 
salt  and  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  white  sugar, 
and  a  tablespoonful  butter.  Stew  slowly 
fifteen  minutes  more.  A  little  grated  bread 
may  be  used  for  thickening. 

Stuffed  Baked  Tomatoes. — Cut  a  thin 
slice  from  the  blossom  and  of  large,  smooth 
tomatoes,  scoop  out  the  inside  and  chop  it 
up  fine  with  some  grated  bread,  green  corn, 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


29 


butter,  and  a  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper  and 
sugar.  Mix  well  and  stuff  the  hollowed 
tomatoes,  replace  the  sliced  pieces,  bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  deep  dish, 
until  brown.     Do  not  peel  the  tomatoes. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes. — Butter  the  sides 
and  bottom  of  a  pudding-dish.  Put  a  layer 
of  bread  crumbs  in  the  bottom,  on  which 
put  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  some  bits  of  butter, 
'and  a  very  little  white  sugar.  Then  repeat 
with  another  layer  of  crumbs,  another  of 
tomato,  and  seasoning,  until  the  dish  is 
filled,  having  the  top  layer  of  slices  of  tomato, 
with  bits  of  butter  on  each.  Bake  under 
cover  until  they  are  well  cooked  through ; 
remove  the  cover *and  brown  quickly. 

Boiled  Cabbage. — Wash  the  cabbage  in 
cold  water,  trim  off  the  limp  outside  leaves, 
cut  into  eight  pieces,  or,  if  it  must  be 
cooked  quickly,  chop  it  into  smaller  pieces. 
Put  it  into  a  kettle  and  cover  with  boiling 
water,  allowing  one-half  teaspoonful  salt  to 
each  quart  of  water.  Do  not  cover  the 
kettle  and  there  will  be  very  little  of  the 
cabbage  odor  in  the  house.  A  young  cab- 
bage requires  about  thirty  minutes  to  cook. 
When  the  cabbage  is  done  the  water  may 
be  drained  off,  and  a  little  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful  butter,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
a  sprinkle  of  pepper  added.  Boil  up  once 
and  serve. 

Vinegar  is  generally  placed  on  the  table 
with  boiled  cabbage.  Drawn  butter  may 
be  eaten  with  it,  and  is  an  improvement. 
Cabbage  may  be  boiled  in  the  water  in 
which  corned  beef  or  ham  has  been  cooked. 

Cooked  Cabbage. — Chop  cabbage  fine, 
cook  in  kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover  ; 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  meat  drip- 
pings.    Serve  with  vinegar. 

Stewed  Cabbage. — Cut  a  hard  white 
head  of  cabbage  in  two  pieces,  cut  one 
piece  as  fine  as  possible,  and  put  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  ^%,'g. 
Salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  with  flour  and 
sugar,  and  a  little  water,  and  let  cook. 
Make  a  dressing  of  one  ^^%,  one  teaspoon- 
ful cream,  one  cup  of  weak  vinegar.  Pour 
over  cabbage  about  five  minutes  before 
removing  from  fire. 


45 


Ladies'  Cabbage. — Boil  a  firm  white 
cabbage  for  fifteen  minutes,  drain  and  add 
fresh  boiling  water.  When  it  grows  tender, 
drain  and  set  aside  until  cold.  Chop  fine  ; 
add  two  beaten  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, some  pepper  and  salt,  and  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  rich  milk  or  cream.  Stir  all 
well  together,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pud- 
ding-dish until  brown.  Serve  very  hot.' 
The  prepared  cabbage  resembles  cauliflower 
and  is  a  very  digestible  and  palatable  dish. 

Sour=crout — Barrels  having  held  wine 
or  vinegar  are  generally  used  in  which  to 
prepare  sour-crout,  but  it  is  better  to  have 
a  special  barrel  for  the  purpose.  Slice 
white  and  firm  cabbages  into  fine  shreds. 
There  are  instruments  for  this  purpose.  At 
the  bottom  of  the  barrel  place  a  layer  of 
coarse  salt,  and  add  alternately  layers  of 
cabbage  and  salt,  being  careful  to  have  one 
of  salt  on  the  top.  As  each  layer  of  cab- 
bage is  added,  it  must  be  forced  down  with 
blows  of  a  heavy  pestle,  fresh  layers  being 
added  as  soon  as  the  juice  floats  on  the  sur- 
face. The  cabbage  should  be  seasoned  with 
a  few  grains  of  coriander,  juniper  berries, 
etc.  When  the  barrel  is  full  it  must  be  put 
in  a  dry  cellar,  and  covered  with  a  cloth, 
under  a~  plank,  on  which  heavy  weights  are 
laid.  At  the  end  of  a  few  days  it  will  be 
gin  to  ferment.  During  this  process  the 
pickle  must  be  drawn  off  and  replaced  by 
fresh,  until  the  liquor  becomes  clear.  This 
should  be  done  every  day.  Finally,  renew 
the  cloth,  wash  the  cover,  replace  the 
weights,  and  let  stand  for  a  month.  By 
that  time  the  sour-crout  will  be  ready  fot 
use.  Care  must  be  taken  to  let  the  least 
possible  air  enter  the  sour-crout,  and  to 
have  the  cover  perfectly  clean.  Each  time 
the  barrel  has  to  be  opened  it  must  be  care- 
fully closed  again.  To  neglect  these  pre- 
cautions may  ruin  the  operation. 

Sour-crout  is  often  fried  in  the  same 
manner  as  fried  cabbage,  excepting  that  it 
is  first  boiled  until  soft  in  just  enough 
water  to  cook  it.  Vinegar  should  be  added 
after  frying. 

Boiled  Cauliflower. — Take  off  leaves 
and  cut  stalk  close  to  flower  bunch.  Soak 
in  cold  water  half  an  hour,  then  tie  in 
coarse    bobbinet    lace    or   cheese-cloth    to 


30 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


breaking, 


put  into   boiling   salted 
until  tender.     Serve  with 


prevent 

water  and  cook 

drawn  butter. 

Scalloped  Cauliflower.-  Boil  until  ten- 
der, cut  up  and  pack,  stems  downward,  in 
a  buttered  pudding-dish.  Take  a  cup  of 
breadcrumbs,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  melted 
butter  and  six  of  milk ;  beat  to  a  soft 
paste,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  a 
beaten  ^gz,  and  cover  the  cauliflower.  Cover 
the  dish  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  six  minutes. 
Remove  cover  and  brown.     Serve  hot. 

Boiled  Onions. — Place  onions  in  cold 
water  and  peel.  Then  cover  with  boiling 
water  in  a  saucepan.  Cook  fifteen  minutes, 
drain,  and  cover  again  with  boiling  water. 
Repeat  this  twice  ;  cook  until  they  can  be 
pierced  with  a  wire  skewer.  Drain  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  plenty  of  but- 
ter.    Serve  with  drawn  butter. 

Fried  Onions. — Peel,  slice,  slightly  par- 
boil, drain,  and  fry  until  brown  in  equal 
quantities  of  lard  and  butter.  Cover  until 
they  are  perfectly  soft,  then  remove  the 
cover,  cook  imtil  brown,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper. 

Boiled  Green  Corn. — Test  corn  with 
finger  nail.  When  the  grain  is  pierced  the 
milk  should  jet  out,  and  not  be  thick.  Strip 
off  the  outer  leaves,  turn  back  the  inner 
covering,  and  pick  off  all  the  silk.  Then 
replace  the  inner  husks.  Put  into  salted 
boiling  water,  and  cook  fast  for  from  ten  to 
twenty  minutes,  according  to  size  and  age 
of  the  ears.  Cut  the  stalks  off  close  to  the 
cob,  and  send  to  table  wrapped  in  a  napkin. 

Or  the  corn  may  be  cut  from  the  cob 
while  hot,  and  seasoned  with  butter,  salt, 
and  pepper.     Serve  hot  in  a  vegetable  dish.- 

Qreen  Corn  Fritters. — Grate  the  corn  ; 
use  with  each  cupful  an  ^^-g  and  a  half  and 
a  tablespoonful  milk  or  cream.  Beat  the 
egg,  and  gradually  add  the  corn,  still  beat- 
ing. Put  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter 
to  the  pint  of  corn  ;  stir  in  the  milk,  and 
thicken  with  a  little  flour.  Salt  to  taste. 
Fry  in  hot  lard,  or  cook  on  a  griddle,  like 
batter  cakes. 

Baked  Corn. — To  two  cups  of  chopped 
fiorn  (either  fresh  or  canned)  add  two  beaten 


46 


eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  speck  of 
pepper,  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  and, 
two  cupfuls  .scalded  milk.  Bake  in  a  but- 
tered pudding  dish  until  firm. 

Corn  Pudding. — Scrape  or  grate  the 
corn  from  a  dozen  ears  of  tender  green  corn. 
Beat  separately  the  whites  and  yolks  of  tour 
eggs .  Mix  the  corn  and  yolks ,  and  stir  hard 
while  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
Then  add  one  quart  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful 
of  sugar  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and 
lastly  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Bake  slowly  at  first,  covering  the 
dish,  for  an  hour.  Then  take  off  the  cover 
and  brown.  This  pudding  can  be  made 
from  canned  corn  in  winter,  by  chopping 
the  corn  fine.  It  is  a  delit^ious  accompani- 
ment to  a  meat  course. 

Stewed  Corn. — Shave  corn  off  the  ear  ; 
to  three  pints  of  corn  add  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and 
just  enough  water  to  cover;  place  in  pan, 
cover  and  cook  rather  slow,  from  half  hour 
to  an  hour,  stirring  often  ;  just  before  it  is 
done,  add  a  half  cup  sweet  cream  thickened 
with  a  little  flour. 

Scalloped  Corn. — Cut  corn  off  the  cob, 
put  into  baking  dish  a  layer  of  corn,  then  a 
layer  of  breadcrumbs,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
pepper  and  lumps  of  butter,  then  a  layer  of 
corn,  putting  corn  on  top  with  lumps  o 
butter,  and  pour  in  cream  or  milk  till  quite 
moist.     Bake  thirty  minutes. 

Green  Beans. — To  cook  green  beans 
(fresh  from  the  vines)  without  pork,  have 
the  kettle  hot,  and  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
lard,  let  it  get  hot,  stir  in  the  lard  one  table- 
spoonful of  flour,  let  brown  a  little,  then 
pour  in  a  half  gallon  of  cold  water,  then  add 
beans,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  until 
tender. 

String  Beans. — Break  off  the  end 
that  grew  to  the  vine,  drawing  off  at  the 
same  time  the  string  upon  the  edges.  Re- ' 
peat  this  process  from  the  other  end  ;  cut 
the  beans  with  a  sharp  knife  into  pieces  half 
an  inch  long,  and  boil  them  in  just  enough 
water  to  cover  them.  They  usually  require 
two  and  a  half  hour's  boiling  ;  but  this  de- 
pends upon  their  age  and  freshness.  After 
they  have  boiled  until  tender,  and  the  water 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


31 


boiled  nearly  out,  add  pepper,  salt,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  a  half  a  cup  of  cream. 

Lima  and  Butter  Beans. — Soak  a  while 
in  cold  water ;  then  put  into  a  pot  well  filled 
with  boiling  water  and  a  little  salt.  Boil  until 
tender.  Drain  and  butter  well  when  dished. 
The  average  time  to  cook  is  forty  minutes. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. — Soak  one  quart 
of  pea  beans  over  night.  Drain,  cover  with 
fresh  water  to  which  half  teaspoonful  of  soda 
has  been  added  and  cook  slowly  until  the 
skins  wrinkle.  Drain  again  and  put  in  bean 
pot  with  half  pound  salt  pork,  half  table- 
spoonful  salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls  molas- 
ses. Cover  with  boiling  water  and  bake  at 
least  eight  hours.  The  pork  should  be 
buried  in  the  beans,  leaving  the  rind  exposed. 

Succotash. — This  is  made  of  green  corn 
and  Lima,  string,  or  butter  beans.  The 
corn,  when  cut  from  the  cob,  should  be  a 
third  more  than  the  beans.  Just  cover  with 
boiling  water,  and  stew  together  until  ten- 
der, stirring  now  and  then.  Then  pour  off 
nearly  all  the  water,  add  a  large  cupful  of 
milk,  and  stew  for  an  hour,  watching  to 
prevent  burning.  Stir  in  a  large  lump  of 
butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  moistened 
with  milk,  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  up  once, 
and  serve  in  a  deep  vegetable  dish. 

Green  Peas. — Take  fresh  peas,  hull 
them,  put  in  pan  in  cold  water  for  half  an 
hour,  and  cook  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  in 
small  quantity  of  boiling  water.  Drain ,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  plenty  of  butter. 
Serve  hot. 

Boiled  Peas  or  Beans. — Choose  fresh, 
green  peas  or  beans.  Put  them  into  a  kettle 
with  just  enough  boiling  water  to  keep 
them  from  burning.  Boil  until  they  are 
soft.  To  one  pint  of  the  vegetables  add  one 
tablespoonful  butter,  a  sprinkle  of  pepper, 
and  a  little  salt,  if  necessary.  Serve  in  a 
hot  dish. 

Dried  Peas  or  Beans. — Pick  them  over 
and  remove  specks,  pebbles,  and  faulty 
peas  or  beans.  Soak  in  cold  water  a  few 
hours  or  over  night.  Pour  off  the  water, 
add  fresh  cold  water,  and  set  on  the  back  oif 
the  stove  to  heat  slowly,  and  simmer  until 
soft.     If  desired  to  use  as  soup,  they  may 


be  boiled  until  they  fall  to  pieces  and  form 
a  soft,  pulpy  mass.  Split  peas  need  to  be 
soaked  only  half  an  hour  before  cooking. 

Boiled  Beets. — Take  small,  smooth  beets; 
wash  carefully,  and  put  into  boiling  water, 
Boil  an  hour  or  two,  or  until  tender.  Do 
not  probe  them,  but  press  with  fingers  to 
see  if  they  are  done.  Take  up,  lay  in  a  pan 
of  cold  water,  and  peel.  Cut  into  slices, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  or  vinegar. 
Serve  hot. 

Cooked    Beets   with    Dressing. — Cook 

beets  and  slice  in  saucepan,  and  pour  the 
following  dressing  over  them :  One  small  tea- 
cupful  vinegar  (if  strong  dilute  with  water), 
a  tablespoonful  each  of  sugar  and  butter. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  One  tablespoon- 
ful of  corn  starch,  dissolved  in  water ;  stir  all 
together  and  boil  until  thick  ;  pour  over  the 
beets,  and  send  to  the  table  in  a  covered  dish. 

Boiled  Beets. — Scrub  the  beets  without 
breaking  the  roots.  Boil  until  they  can  be 
easily  pierced  with  a  skewer.  Young  beets 
require  thirty  or  forty  minutes  to  cook ;  old 
beets  from  one  to  two  hours.  When  done 
dip  into  cold  water,  rub  ofi"  the  skin,  cut  off 
the  tops  and  roots,  and  slice.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  on  melted  butter 
and  serve.  Never  boil  beets  with  any  other 
food,  on  account  of  their  color. 

Spinach. — Pick  off  the  roots  and  decay- 
ed leaves  ;  wash  thoroughly  in  three  or  foui 
waters.  Put  the  spinach  into  a  large  kettle, 
.  without  water.  Put  it  on  the  back  part  of 
the  stove  where  it  will  cook  slowly,  until 
some  of  the  juice  is  drawn  out,  then  boil 
until  tender.  Drain,  and  chop  if  liked.  To 
one-half  peck  of  spinach  add  one  table 
spoonful  butter,  one- half  teaspoonful  salt, 
and  a  sprinkle  of  pepper.  Heat  again. 
Garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Fried  Egg=plant. — Cut  the  egg-plant 
into  slices  one-quarter  inch  thick  ;  salt  each 
slice  separately,  putting  one  on  top  of 
another  ;  put  on  the  upper  slice  a  heavy 
weight  to  press  out  the  juice,  and  let  stand 
about  half  an  hour.  Dip  in  beaten  &ZZ> 
then  in  cracker  dust  or  breadcrumbs,  or  the 
two  mixed  ;  fry  quickly  in  hot  lard  to  a  rich 
brown. 


47 


32 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


Stuffed  Egg=plant. — Cut  the  egg-plant 
in  two,  and  scrape  out  the  inside,  which  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  minced  ham. 
Cover  with  water  and  boil  until  soft,  then 
drain  off  the  water  and  add'two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  grated  crumbs,  a  tablespoon ful  of 
butter,  half  a  minced  onion,  salt  and  pepper. 
Stuff  each  half  of  the  shell  with  this  mix- 
ture, to  each  add  a  small  lump  of  butter, 
and  bake  fifteen  minutes.  Minced  veal  or 
chicken  in  the  place  of  ham  is  equally  good, 
and  many  prefer  it. 

Stewed    Salsify  or  Oyster=plant 

Scrape  the  roots  and  place  in  cold  water,  to 
prevent  discoloration.  Cut  in  inch-long 
pieces.  Cover  with  hot  water  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  boil  tender.  Then  pour  off  most 
of  the  water,  and  add  a  cup  of  milk.  Bring 
this  to  a  boil,  stew  ten  minutes,  put  in  a 
large  lump  of  butter,  cut  and  rolled  in  flour ; 
season  to  taste  ;  boil  up  once,  and  serve. 
This  dish  has  much  the  taste  of  stewed  oysters . 

Asparagus — Break  asparagus  stalks  in 
pieces  any  desired  length  ;  boil  until  tender  ; 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  plenty  of  but- 
ter ;  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
mixed  with  milk.  If  desired,  serve  on  toast. 
The  tops,  which  are  tender,  should  be  placed 
in  the  water  ten  minutes  after  the  other 
pieces  begin  to  boil. 

Asparagus. — Boil  a  bunch  of  asparagus 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Place  in 
a  baking  dish,  add  butter,  pepper,  and  salt 
to  taste.  Beat  well  four  eggs,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  good  cream  ;  pour  over 
the  asparagus  and  bake  ten  minutes. 

Boiled  Turnips. — Scrub  the  turnips  and 
pare  off  the  thick  skin.  Cut  into  slices  or 
quarters,  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  soft.  Then  put  them  into  a  piece  of 
coarse  cheese-cloth  and  mash  fine  with  a 
v'/ooden  masher,  pressing  them  to  remove 
the  water.  To  one  pint  of  mashed  turnips 
add  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one-quarter 
teaspoonful  salt,  and  a  sprinkle  of  pepper. 
Serve  in  hot  dish.  Potatoes  are  sometimes 
mashed  with  turnips,  to  absorb  the  water. 

Carrots. — Scrub  and  scrape  off"  a  very 
thin  skin.  Cut  each  carrot  into  slices  from 
one  quarter  to  one-half  inch  thick,  and  cook 


in  boiling  salted  water  until   soft.     Serve 
with  a  white  sauce. 

Stewed  Carrots. — Wash  and  scrape  the 
carrots,  and  cut  them  into  strips.  Put 
these  in  a  stewpan  with  water  enough  to 
cover  them,  add  a  spoonful  of  salt,  and  boil 
slowly  until  they  are  tender.  Then  drain 
and  replace  them  in  the  pan,  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  enough  cream  or 
milk  to  moisten  the  whole.  Bring  to  a 
boil  and  serve  hot. 

Parsnips. — Scrub,  scrape  off  a  thin 
skin,  cut  each  parsnip  into  quarters  length- 
wise, and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water,  from 
thirty  to  forty  minutes,  until  soft.  Place  in 
a  dish  and  pour  a  white  sauce  over  them, 
or  serve  with  vinegar  on  the  table.  They 
may  be  buttered  after  boiling,  placed  in  the 
oven  and  baked  a  golden  brown. 

Fried  Parsnips. — Wash  and  scrape  pars- 
nips, quarter  and  remove  heart,  cut  in  pieces 
about  two  inches  long,  salt  and  pepper. 
Mix  butter  and  lard  in  frying-pan ,  put  them 
in  and  fry  till  a  nice  brown. 

Parsnip  Balls. — Wash  and  boil  in 
water  with  a  little  salt,  cook  till  perfectly 
tender.  When  cold  scrape  off"  the  skin, 
mash  them ,  and  for  each  cup  of  the  mashed 
parsnips,  add  one-half  cup  breadcrumbs  and 
one  ^%^,  salt  and  pepper.  Flour  the  hands 
and  make  into  balls,  brown  in  hot  butter, 
and  serve  very  hot. 

Summer  Squash. — When  young  and 
tender,  this  can  be  fried  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  egg-plant.  Winter  squash  takes 
much  longer  to  cook,  and  should  be  soaked 
in  cold  water  for  two  hours  or  more  before 
cooking.  Cold  stewed  squash  can  be  used 
by  taking  two  cups  of  squash,  two  eggs, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of 
milk,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Fry  in 
hot  lard. 

Stewed  Pumpkin. — Cut  in  two,  remove 
the  seeds,  slice,  and  pare.  Soak  for  an 
hour  in  cold  water,  then  put  in  boiling 
water  and  stew  gently,  stirring  often. 
When  the  pieces  grow  tender  and  break, 
drain  and  squeeze  dry,  rub  through  a 
colander,    and   return   to   the   pan   with   a 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


33 


seasoning  of  bulter,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir 
rapidly  from  bottom  till  very  hot.  Dish 
in  a  mound  shape. 

Vegetable  Hash. — Chop  up  coarsely  the 
vegetables  left  over  from  dinner — cabbage, 
parsnips,  potatoes,  beans,  etc.  Sprinkle 
them  v^^ith  a  little  pepper.  Take  a  sauce- 
pan or  frying-pan,  oiling  its  sides  and  bot- 
tom vi^ith  melted  butter ;  then  put  in  the 
chopped  vegetables,  pour  in  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  hot  water,  and  cover  quickly  to  keep  in 
the  steam.  When  thoroughly  heated,  re- 
move the  cover  and  stir  the  mixture  till 
well  cooked.     Serve  hot. 

Milk  and  Cheese. 

Milk  should  be  kept  covered  with  a 
cloth  to  prevent  it  from  absorbing  impuri- 
ties from  the  air.  It  should  be  sterilized  for 
babies  and  young  children  ;  especially  during 
warm  weather.  Vessels  used  for  milk  should 
DC  kept  perfectly  clean .  Rinse  them  out  after 
using,  fill  them  with  water  in  which  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  borax  or  washing  soda  has 
been  dissolved  and  let  them  stand  an  hour. 
Then  wash  them  in  hot  soap-suds,  scald 
them,  rinse  again  and  let  them  cool. 

Sterilized  Milk.— Sterilize  milk  bottles 
or  jars  by  boiling  them  twenty  minutes  in 
water.  Remove  them,  fill  two-thirds  full  of 
milk,  and  cork  with  baked  or  prepared  cot- 
ton or  with  rubber  corks  which  have  been 
sterilized.  Place  the  bottles  on  a  vdre  stand 
in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  heat  the  water 
gradually  to  165  degrees  Fahrenheit,  and 
keep  it  at  that  temperature  forty  minutes  ; 
then  remove  the  bottles  and  cool  quickly  by 
placing  them  in  cold  or  iced  water.  Keep 
the  bottles  in  a  cool  place. 

A  thermometer  for  testing  the  tempera- 
ture may  be  bought  at  any  pharmacy,  but 
if  there  is  none  at  hand  heat  the  milk  until 
a  scum  forms  over  the  top,  and  keep  it  as 
nearly  as  possible  at  that  temperature  for 
forty  minutes.     Do  not  allow  it  to  boil. 

Cold  Custard  or  Junket. — Warm  one 
quart  new  sweet  milk,  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  sugar,  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Pour  the  mixture  into  a  glass  or 
china  dish  and  add  one  tablespoonful  liquid 
rennet,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place.     If,  at 

26  R  49 


the  end  of  an  hour,  it  has  not  begun  to 
harden,  stir  in  one  teaspoonful  more  of  ren- 
net ;  it  should  be  firm  in  one  or  two  hours. 
Remove  it  to  a  cool  place  or  set  it  on  ice  to 
cool.  It  should  be  eaten  within  an  hour 
after  it  has  hardened  or  it  will  separate  into 
curds  and  whey.  Serve  with  cream.  Cold 
custard  may  be  flavored  with  nutmeg  grated 
over  the  surface,  or  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
extract  or  rosewater  stirred  in  with  the  rennet. 

Cornstarch  Blanc  flange. — Scald  a  pint 
of  milk  in  a  double-boiler.  Add  one  table- 
spoonful  sugar  and  a  sprinkle  of  salt,  with 
some  mashed  or  preserved  strawberries  or  a 
little  cocoa,  mixed  with  some  cold  milk. 
Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  with  cold 
milk,  stir  it  into  the  hot  milk,  boil  and  stir 
five  or  ten  minutes,  until  it  is  smooth  and 
thick.  Pour  the  mixture  into  cold  wet 
cups  or  molds.  Serve  cold  with  cream  or 
milk  and  sugar. 

Toast  and  Cheese. — Prepare  toast ;  dip 
in  hot,  salted  v/ater ;  grate  enough  dry 
cheese  to  cover  the  slices  ;  set  in  the  oven  to 
melt,  and  put  the  slices  together  as  sand- 
wiches. This  may  be  enriched  in  various 
ways  by  adding  ^zz,  butter,  and  spices. 

Cheese  Pudding. — Butter  a  baking  dish, 
put  in  a  cup  of  grated  breadcrumbs  and  a 
half  cup  grated  cheese  in  layers,  or  mix  and 
keep  some  crumbs  for  the  top.  Beat  an  &gg 
slightly,  add  a  half  cup  of  milk,  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper  ;  pour  in  baking  dish,  add  a 
top  layer  of  crumbs  and  bake  till  brown. 

Rice  and  Cheese  Pudding. — Pick  over 
and  wash  a  cup  of  rice.  Steam  until  soft  in 
salted  water,  in  a  double  boiler.  Butter  a 
baking  dish,  put  in  the  rice  and  two  cups 
of  grated  cheese  in  layers,  pour  on  one  cup 
of  white  sauce.  Sprinkle  over  it  buttered 
cracker  crumbs  and  brown  in  the  oven 
Macaroni  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

Welsh  Rarebit.  —  Take  half  pound 
grated  cheese  and  Quarter  cupful  milk  or 
cream,  put  into  a  double  boiler,  and  stir 
until  the  cheese  is  melted.  Beat  one  &%%, 
and  add  mustard,  salt,  and  cayenne  pepper ; 
then  pour  the  milk  and  cheese  over  the  mix- 
ture. Add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  return 
to  the  boiler,  and  cook  until  it  thickens, 
stirring  constantly.     Pour  it  over  dry  toast. 


34 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


Cheese  Sticks. — Take  oue  pint  flour, 
one-half  pint  grated  cheese  ;  mix  and  make 
paste  with  lard  the  size  of  an  ^^^  ;  make 
the  same  as  pie  crust.  Roll  out  and  cut  in 
strips  one  half  inch  wide  and  five  inches 
long  ;  sprinkle  over  top  with  grated  cheese 
and  bake  a  light  brown. 

Cheese  Straws. — One  cup  of  grated 
cheese,  one-half  cup  butter,  three-fourths 
cup  of  flour,  sifted,  one  small  teaspoonful 
dry  mustard,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  cold 
water ;  mix  all  together  and  roll  out  like 
pie  crust,  cut  into  strips  half-inch  broad 
and  five  inches  long.  Bake  a  light  brown 
and  serve  with  salads. 

Macaroni  With  Cheese. — Take  twelve 
sticks  of  macaroni  broken  into  one  inch 
lengths,  and  cook  in  three  pints  of  boiling 
salted  water  twenty  minutes ;  turn  into  a 
colander  and  pour  over  it  cold  water  ;  drain, 
make  a  sauce  of  one  tablespoonful  each  of 
butter  and  flour,  and  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  hot  milk  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  put 
a  layer  of  grated  cheese  in  the  bottom  of 
baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  sauce,  then 
macaroni,  and  sauce,  cover  this  with  fine 
breadcrumbs  ;  bake  until  brown. 

Sauces  and  Salads. 

Drawn  Butter. — Take  one  and  one-half 
teaspoonfuls  flour,  make  of  it  a  thin  paste 
with  cold  water,  and  stir  it  into  a  teacupful 
of  hot  water.  Bring  to  a  boil,  and  add  by 
degrees  two  ounces  of  butter,  stirring  till 
well  mixed.     Boil  one  minute. 

Tomato  Sauce. — Heat  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter ;  cook  in  it  a  teaspoonful  chopped 
onion  until  golden  brown  ;  stir  in  one  table- 
spoonful  flour,  and  cook  till  smooth.  Add 
one-half  cup  water  or  stock  gradually,  pour 
in  one  cup  of  strained  tomato,  add  salt  and 
pepper,  boil  five  minutes,  and  strain.  Serve 
with  boiled  macaroni,  or  boiled  or  baked 
meat. 

White  Sauce. — Take  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  each  butter  and  flour.  Melt  the  butter 
in  a  saucepan.  Stir  in  the  flour  and  work 
in  the  butter  until  smooth.  Cook  it,  stir- 
ring until  the  flour  swells  and  is  smooth. 
Add  one  cup  scalded  milk  gradually,  and 
boil,  stirring  constantly  until  the  mixture 


thickens.  Stir  in  a  seasoning  of  salt  and 
pepper  and  serve  hot. 

Use  one  tablespoonful  flour  when  mak- 
ing the  sauce  for  macaroni.  A  brjDwn  sauce 
may  be  made  by  browning  the  butter  before 
the  flour  is  added. 

Macaroni  Served  With  White  Sauce. 

— Break  macaroni  into  pieces  one  or  two 
inches  long,  and  cook  in  boiling  salted 
water  until  tender.  It  will  require  from 
thirty  minutes  to  one  hour.  Drain  ofi"  the 
boiling  water  and  pour  cold  water  over  the 
macaroni.  Stir  the  macaroni  into  the 
white  sauce  and  heat  it.  One  cup  of  maca- 
roi.i  is  the  proportion  for  the  quantity  of 
white  cauce  in  the  above  recipe.  Two 
tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese  stirred  into  the 
white  sauce  improves  it. 

Vegetables  Served  With  White  Sauce, 

— Asparagus,  tied  in  bunches  and  cooked 
in  boiling  salted  water,  carrots,  turnips, 
parsnips  and  potatoes,  boiled  and  cut  in  slices 
or  cubes,  may  be  served  with  white  sauce. 

Bread,  Biscuit  and  Pastry. 

Bread  is  one  of  the  most  important  arti- 
cles of  diet.  It  is  made  of  flour,  salt,  water, 
and  yeast. 

The  flour  best  adapted  for  bread-making 
is  that  from  wheat,  because  it  will  produce 
the  most  appetizing  and  nutritious  loaf  at 
the  least  cost.  The  quality  of  wheat  bread 
depends  to  a  great  extent  upon  the  kind  oi 
flour  used,  whether  whole-wheat,  Graham, 
or  bread  flour  (as  the  ordinary  flour  is  called) . 

The  so-called  bread  flour  is  made  by 
grinding  the  wheat,  screening  out  the  bran 
and  sifting  the  flour  through  linen  or  bolt- 
ing cloth  several  times,  thus  making  a  fine 
white  flour  composed  chiefly  of  starch  and 
gluten.  The  whole-wheat  flour  differs  from 
this  in  that  the  whole  grain  is  ground  fine, 
thus  obtaining  more  gluten  and  some  min- 
eral matter,  both  of  which  lie  close  to  the  bran. 

Graham  flour  is  made  from  the  whole 
grain  ground  coarse. 

Both  the  whole-wheat  flour  and  the 
Graham  are  dark  in  color  and  make  dark 
bread. 

Pastry  flour  contains  a  very  small 
amount  of  gluten,  and  is  used  for  pies  and 
cakes. 


50 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


3S 


There  are  certain  general  rules  by  which 
good  bread  flour  can  be  tested. 

First.     It  should  have  a  yellowish  tinge. 

Second.  When  pressed  in  the  hand  it 
should  fall  loosely  apart. 

Third.  When  rubbed  between  the  fin- 
gers it  should  feel  slightly  granular. 

In  bread-making  an  indispensible  re- 
quisite is  good  yeast ;  and  though  modern 
bread  and  cake  makers  avail  themselves 
largely  of  baking  powders,  a  recipe  for  sat- 
isfactory yeast  is  of  the  first  importance. 
The  one  given  below  has  the  warrant  of  ex- 
perienced housekeepers. 

Excellent  Yeast. — Boil  two  ounces  of 
the  best  hops  in  four  quarts  of  water  for 
half  an  hour  ;  then  strain  and  let  stand  until 
lukewarm.  Put  it  in  an  earthen  bowl,  add 
half  a  cupful  each  of  salt  and  brown  sugar, 
and  a  quart  of  flour;  mix  all  well  together, 
and  let  it  stand  forty-eight  hours.  Now 
add  six  medium  sized  potatoes,  which  have 
been  boiled  and  mashed  through  a  colan- 
der, and  let  stand  for  another  day,  then 
stram  and  bottle  and  it  is  fit  for  use.  While 
making  it  must  be  kept  near  a  fire  and  often 
stirred.  This  yeast  ferments  of  itself  and 
needs  the  aid  of  no  old  yeast.  If  care  be 
taken  to  let  it  ferment  sufl&ciently  in  the 
bowl,  it  may  immediately  be  corked  tightly. 
Be  careful  to  keep  it  in  a  cool  place,  and 
before  using  shake  the  bottle  briskly.  It 
will  keep  in  a  cool  place  two  months,  and 
is  best  the  latter  part  of  the  time.  Use 
about  the  same  quantity  as  of  other  yeast. 

Yeast  Cakes. — Boil  one  quart  pared  and 
sliced  potatoes  and  a  double  handful  of 
hops  (tied  in  a  muslin  bag)  in  two  quarts 
of  water  for  nearly  an  hour.  Then  take 
out  the  hops  and  strain  the  remainder 
through  a  colander  into  a  bowl.  Stir  into 
the  hot  liquid  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
batter,  beat  up  well,  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  lively  yeast,  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm 
place.  When  light  stir  in  a  cup  of  Indian 
meal,  roll  into  a  thin  sheet,  and  cut  into 
round  cakes.  Dry  these  in  a  very  moderate 
heat,  and  when  quite  dry  and  cold  place 
them  in  a  cool  dry  place.  For  a  fair-sized 
loaf  use  a  cake  three  inches  in  diameter, 
soaking  until  soft  and  adding  a  little  soda. 


These  cakes  will  keep  a  month  in  summer, 
two  months  in  winter. 

Wheat  Bread. — Take  a  cup  of  luke- 
warm milk,  or  of  water  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  butter,  a  quarter  cake  yeast  dissolved  in  a 
quarter  cup  of  lukewarm  water,  or  a  quarter 
cup  of  liquid  yeast,  flour  to  make  a  stifi^ 
dough  (three  and  quarter  to  three  and  half 
cups)  one  teaspoonful  sugar  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt. 

Scald  the  milk,  add  the  sugar  and  salt, 
and  cool  it  until  lukewarm.  Dissolve  the 
compressed  yeast  in  the  lukewarm  water, 
and  add  it.  Stir  in  flour  to  make  a  dough 
stiff  enough  to  handle.  Scrape  the  dough 
out  on  a  floured  board,  and  knead  it  about 
fifteen  minutes.  It  should  be  smooth  and 
elastic,  so  that  when  pressed  with  the  finger 
the  dough  springs  back.  Put  the  dough 
back  into  the  bowl.  Cover  with  a  towel, 
and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  and  let  the  dough 
rise  until  double  its  bulk.  Then  lay  it  on 
a  board  and  knead  it  again  about  fifteen 
minutes,  using  as  little  flour  as  possible. 
Shape  it  into  biscuit  or  loaves,  lay  them  m 
a  greased  pan,  let  them  rise  in  a  warm  place, 
until  double  their  bulk,  and  bake  on  the 
floor  of  a  hot  oven.  Biscuit  will  require 
from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  and  loaves 
from  forty-five  minutes  to  one  hour.  If  the 
dough  is  mixed  with  water,  a  little  butter 
may  be  added  to  prevent  the  bread  from 
being  tough.  The  butter  should  be  added 
to  the  lukewarm  water.  The  quantity  of 
yeast  in  the  recipe  will  raise  the  dough  to 
double  its  bulk  in  about  six  hours  ;  one- 
third  of  a  cake  of  yeast  will  raise  it  in  about 
four  hours,  and  one-eighth  of  a  cake  will 
raise  it  in  about  twelve  hours.  When  the 
bread  is  baked  take  it  out  of  the  pan  and  let 
it  stand  uncovered,  that  the  air  may  circu- 
late around  it.  When  it  is  perfectly  cold 
put  it  away  in  a  clean,  dry  tin  box.  Do  not 
wrap  it  in  cloth,  as  the  cloth  absorbs  the 
moisture  in  the  bread  and  destroys  it  flavor. 

Bread  Made  with  a  Sponge. — Use  recipe 
for  bread,  stirring  in  only  enough  flour  to 
make  a  thick  batter.  lyCt  the  batter  rise 
over  night.  In  the  morning  add  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  dough,  and  knead  or  beat  it 
until  it  is  smooth.  Mold  it  lightly  into 
loaves   or    biscuits.      Let   them   rise   until 


51 


36 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


double  their  bulk,  and  bake.  A  potato 
may  be  mashed  and  stin'ed  into  the  batter 
before  it  is  set  away  to  rise. 

Graham  Bread. — Take  one  teacupful  of 
wheat  flour,  a  half  teacupful  each  of  molas- 
ses and  of  good  yeast,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  pint  of  warm  water.  Mix  these  and 
add  sufficient  Graham  flour  to  make  the 
dough  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a 
strong  spoon.  Set  this  over  night,  and  in 
the  morning  add  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Mix  well,  and 
pour  into  two  medium-sized  pans,  which 
should  be  about  half  full.  Let  stand  in  a 
warm  place  until  the  dough  rises  to  the  top 
of  the  pans,  then  bake  one  hour  in  a  fairly 
hot  oven. 

The  loaves  should  be  covered  when  first 
put  into  the  oven  with  a  thick  brown  paper, 
or  an  old  tin  cover  ;  this  prevents  the  upper 
crust  hardening  before  the  loaf  is  well  risen. 
If  these  directions  are  correctly  followed  the 
bread  will  not  be  heavy  or  sodden. 

Graham  Bread. — Mix  the  sponge  or 
batter,  using  a  pint  of  lukewarm  water,  half  a 
teaspoonful  salt,  half  yeast  cake  and  one  cup 
flour.  When  lighc,  stir  in  three  tablespoon - 
fuls  molasses  and  beat  until  it  is  thoroughly 
mixed  ;  then  add  enough  Graham  flour  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  Knead  it  ten  minutes, 
shape  it  into  two  loaves,  and  put  it  in 
greased  pans  to  rise.  When  light,  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  about  thirty  minutes.  The 
bread  may  be  made  without  any  white  flour. 

Entire  Wheat  or  Whole  Wheat  Bread. 

— Use  recipe  for  Graham  bread  substituting 
whole  wheat  flour  for  the  Graham. 

Soft  Graham  Bread. — Mix  together  two 
cupfuls  Graham  flour,  one  cupful  white 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  butter  or 
lard  and  lukewarm  water  to  make  a  soft 
dough,  add  half  a  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
halt  a  cupful  of  lukewarm  water.  Beat  thor- 
oughly and  allow  it  to  double  its  bulk. 
Beat  again,  and  pour  into  greased  pans.  L,et 
it  double  its  bulk.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. — Mix  together 
thoroughly  two  cupfuls  of  rye  meal  or  Gra- 
ham flour,  one  cupful  corn  meal,  one-half 
teaspoonful  salt,  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful 


soda.  Add  two  cupfuls  of  milk  and  one-half 
cup  molasses.  Fill  a  greased  mold  two-thirds 
full,  cover  it  and  steam  six  hours  or  longer. 
The  longer  it  is  steamed  the  darker  and 
richer  it  becomes. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. — Mix  one  pint 
of  rye  flour,  one  quart  of  corn-meal,  one  tea- 
cupful of  Graham  flour,  half  a  teacupful  of 
molasses  or  brown  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  two-thirds  of  a  teacupful  of  yeast. 
Stir  this  with  a  spoon  into  as  stifi"  a  dough 
as  you  can,  using  warm  water  for  wetting. 
Let  it  rise  several  hours,  or  over  night.  In 
the  morning,  or  when  light,  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda  dissolved  in  a  spoonful  of  warm 
water  ;  beat  well  and  turn  into,  well-greased, 
deep  pans,  and  let  it  rise  again.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  from  three  to  four  hours. 

Boston  Brown  Bread  (Unfermented). — 
Stir  thoroughly  together,  wetting  with  sour 
milk,  one  cupful  of  rye  flour,  two  cupfuls  of 
corn  meal,  one  cupful  of  white  flour,  half  a 
teacupful  of  molasses  or  sugar,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt.  Then  add  a  level  tea- 
spoonful of  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful 
of  water.  Sweet  milk  may  be  used  by  sub- 
stituting baking-powder  for  soda.  The  bat- 
ter must  be  stirred  thick  with  a  spoon,  and 
turned  into  well-greased  pans. 

Virginia  Brown  Bread. — Take  a  pint 
of  corn-meal,  and  thoroughly  scald  with 
boiling  water.  To  this,  when  cool,  add 
a  pint  of  light,  white  bread  sponge,  mix 
well,  and  add  a  cupful  of  molasses,  and  Gra- 
ham flour  sufficient  to  mold.  When  light 
bake  for  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate 
oven.  The  quantities  here  given  will  make 
two  loaves. 

Boston  Corn  Bread, — Take  one  cupful 
of  sweet  and  two  of  sour  milk,  two-thirds 
cupful  of  molasses,  a  cupful  of  wheat  flour, 
four  cupfuls  corn-meal,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda.  Steam  for  three  hours  and  brown  in 
the  oven  a  few  minutes.  If  made  with  sweet 
milk  and  baking-powder  it  is  equally  good. 

Corn  Bread. — Beat  thoroughly  two  eggs 
— whites  and  yolks  separately .  Mix  two  heap- 
ing cupfuls  of  Indian  meal  and  one  cupful 
of  flour,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  lard 
and  milk  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter. 
Put  into  the  flour  while  yet  dry  a  teaspoonful 


Chicken  and  Sweetbread  Croquettes 


PRACTICAL  DIRECTIONS 
Add  to  a  sweetbread  cooked,  cooled  and  chopped,  not  too  fine — enough  chopped 
chicken  to  make  one  pint  in  all.  Melt  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter,  add  half  a  cup  of  flour 
and  cook  until  frothy  ;  then  add  gradually,  stirring  constantly,  one  cup  of  chicken  stock, 
well  seasoned  with  vegetables  and  sweet  herbs,  and  one-third  a  cup  of  cream.  Season  to 
taste  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  add  one  egg,  well  beaten,  and  the  chopped  meat.  Set  aside 
to  become  cold,  then  shape,  apply  egg-and-bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat ;  drain  on 
soft  paper.     Serve  with  mushroom  sauce  in  a  boat. 


Medallions  of  Mutton  with  Green  Pea  Salad 


PRACTICAL   DIRECTIONS 

Remove  the  bones  and  fat  from  lamb  or  mutton  chops,  and  skewer  the  meat  in  rounds. 
Braise  the  meat  with  the  bones  and  fine  cut  vegetables  until  tender;  let  cool  under  a 
weight  cover  with  brown  chaudfroid  sauce,  decorate  with  white  and  yolk  of  egg,  and  brush 
over  with  liquid  aspic.     Serve  cold  with  cooked  peas  dressed  with  French  dressing. 

Brow7i  Chaudfroid  Sauce. — To  a  cup  of  highly  seasoned  brown  sauce  add  the  yolk  of 
an  ^%%,  diluted  with  one-fourth  a  cup  of  cream  and  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  soft- 
ened in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  stock.     Use  when  cold,  but  still  liquid. 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


37 


of  soda  and  two  of  cream  of- tartar.  Put 
in  the  eggs  last.  Beat  very  briskly.  Bake 
quickly  in  a  buttered  mold  ;  a  half  hour  is 
usually  time  enough.  All  kinds  of  corn 
bread  should  be  eaten  while  hot. 

Corn  Pone. — To  one  quart  of  corn  meal 
mush,  add  one  and  one-half  pints  cold 
water  ;  stir  well  and  add  corn  meal  to  make 
soft  batter.  Let  stand  overnight  in  a  warm 
place.  In  the  morning  add  one  cupful  but- 
termilk, a  level  teaspoonful  soda,  one  ^^^ 
beaten  light,  one  tablespoonful  salt,  three- 
fourths  cupful  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls 
flour.  Add  enough  meal  to  make  it  about 
as  stiff  as  common  corn  bread  and  bake  one 
hour  and  a  quarter  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Johnnie  Cake. — Sift  into  a  pan  one 
quart  of  Indian  meal,  and,  making  a  hole  in 
the  middle,  pour  in  a  pint  of  warm  water, 
and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  the 
meal  and  water  with  a  spoon  into  a  soft 
dough  ;  then  stir  very  briskly  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  or  more,  till  it  becomes  light  and 
spongy.  The  dough  must  next  be  spread 
evenly  on  a  straight,  flat  board,  and  the 
board  be  placed  nearly  upright  before  an 
open  fire,  with  some  support  to  hold  it  in 
position.  Bake  well ;  when  done,  cut  into 
squares ;  send  hot  to  table,  split  and  buttered. 

New  England  Corn  Cake. — Take  a 
quart  of  milk,  a  pint  of  corn  meal,  a  teacup- 
fiil  of  wheat  flonr,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Scald 
the  milk,  and  pour  it  gradually  on  the  meal. 
When  cool,  add  the  butter  and  salt,  and  half 
a  cupful  of  yeast.  L,etset  over  night.  In  the 
morning  beat  the  sponge  thoroughly,  and 
add  two  well -beaten  eggs,  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  soda  dissolved  in  a  teaspoonful 
of  water.  Pour  into  buttered  deep  earthen 
plates ,  let  stand  fifteen  minutes  to  rise  again , 
and  bake  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

Corn  Meal  Griddle  Cakes. — Scald  two 
cupfuls  of  sifted  corn  meal  and  mix  with  a 
cupful  of  wheat  flour  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Add  three  well-beaten  eggs  ;  thin  with 
enough  sour  milk  to  make  the  mixture  the 
right  consistency.  Beat  the  mass  till  very 
light,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  baking-soda 
dissolved  in  a  little  water.  If  you  use 
sweet  milk,  replace  the  soda  with  two  large 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 


Lunch    Biscuit To    enough     raised 

dough  to  make  a  loaf,  add  one-half  cupful 
sugar,  one-half  cupful  lard,  and  mix  thor- 
oughly. Roll  to  one-fourth  inch  thickness 
and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  place  them  in 
pan  one  on  top  of  the  other,  with  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  pea  between  them.  Let 
raise  and  bake. 

Rusk. — Two  teacup fuls  raised  dough, 
one  teacupful  sugar,  half  cupful  butter, 
two  well-beaten  eggs,  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  dough ;  set  to  raise,  and,  when 
light,  mold  into  high  biscuit  and  let  raise 
again,  sift  sugar  over  top  and  wet  with 
milk,  place  in  oven. 

Parker  House  Rolls. — Scald  a  pint  of 
milk,  melt  in  it  while  warm  a  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  ^ZZ^  ^^^  ^  tablespoonful 
of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  cupful  of 
yeast.  Add  flour  to  make  soft  dough  and 
let  it  rise  over  night. 

In  the  morning  add  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  a  spoonful  of  water. 
Mix  in  enough  flour  to  make  the  same  stiff- 
ness as  any  biscuit  dough,  and  roll  out 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  with 
a  large  round  cutter,  spread  soft  butter  over 
the  tops,  and  fold  one-half  over  the  other 
by  doubling.  Cover,  and  place  near  the 
fire  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  to  rise  be- 
fore baking.     Bake  in  rather  a  quick  oven. 

French  Rolls. — These  may  be  made  of 
the  bread  dough  prepared  for  baking.  When 
making  bread,  reserve  enough  dough  for 
rolls.  Work  into  this  a  tablespoonful  of  lard 
or  butter,  and  stand  in  a  cool  place  for 
four  hours.  Knead  again,  and  let  stand 
three  hours  more.  Then  roll,  very  lightly, 
pieces  of  the  dough  into  round  cakes,  and 
fold  these  over,  not  quite  in  the  centre. 
Let  rise  again  an  hour,  and  bake  half  an 
hour  in  a  hot  oven. 

Risen  Biscuit. — Mix  one  quart  milk, 
three-quarters  of  a  cupful  each  lard  or  butter 
and  yeast,  two  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  with  flour  enough 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Set  over  night.  In 
morning  roll  out  into  a  sheet  three-quarters 
of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  into  round  cakes, 
set  close  together  in  a  pan ,  let  rise  twenty 
minutes,  and  bake  twenty  minutes.    Or  hali 


53 


38 


THE  MODEL  COQK  BOO.^ 


the  flour  may  be  worked  in,  and  the  re- 
mainder five  hours  later,  the  dough  being 
ieft  to  rise  five  liours  more. 

Gluten  Bread. — Scald  a  pint  of  milk  ; 
when  lukewarm,  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
slightly  beaten,  and  one  yeast  cake  dissolved 
in  two  tablespoon fuls  of  warm  water  ;  add 
sufficient  gluten  flour  to  make  a  thick  bat- 
ter. Beat  for  five  minutes ;  cover,  and 
stand  aside  for  three  hours  ;  then  add  suffi- 
cient flour  to  make  as  thick  a  batter  as  you 
can  handle  with  a  spoon.  Turn  it  into  a 
greased  square  pan,  and  when  it  is  very. 
light  (about  one  hour)  bake  in  a  moderately 
quick  oven  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Gluten  Muffins. — Separate  two  eggs  ; 
beat  the  yolks;  add  a  pint  of  milk.  Add 
to  this  a  half  pint  of  gluten  flour,  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  When  thoroughly  mixed, 
add  a  rounding  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der ;  stir  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Bake  in  greased  hot  gem  pans  in  a 
moderate  oven  twenty  minutes. 

5ally  Lunn. — Warm  one-half  cupful  of 
butter  in  a  pint  of  milk ;  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  two 
quarts  of  flour.  Beat  thoroughl}^  and  while 
the  mixture  is  warm,  add  four  well-beaten 
eggs,  and,  lastly,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
yeast,  which  beat  in  well.  Set  it  to  rise 
over  night  in  a  buttered  dish.  In  the  morn- 
ing, dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  stir 
it  into  the  batter,  and  set  it  to  rise  again 
about  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Bake 
steadily  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until 
a  straw  thrust  in  comes  out  clean. 

This  cake  should  be  torn. apart,  hot  cut. 
Cutting  is  apt  to  make  warm  bread  heavy. 
Bake  a  light  brown.     Eat  while  hot. 

English  Crumpets. — To  a  quart  of 
warm  milk,  add  half  a  cup  of  yeast,  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  batter.  When  light,  rub  in  half  a 
cupful  of  melted  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and  a  very 
little  more  flour.  L,et  stand  twenty  minutes 
or  until  light.  Next  grease  some  muffin 
rings,  place  them  on  a  hot  griddle,  and  fill 
them  half  full  of  the  batter.  When  done  on 
one  side,  turn  and  bake  the  other  side. 
Butter  them  while  hot,  pile  one  on  another, 
and  serve  at  once. 


Rice  Cakes. — Take  one  cup  cold  boiled 
rice,  one  pint  flour,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a 
teaspoonful  salt,  and  milk  to  make  a  moder- 
ately thick  batter.  Beat  well  together  and 
bake  quickly. 

Flannel  Cakes. — A  quart  of  milk,  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  well-beaten 
eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  yeast,  with  flour  enough  to 
make  a  good  batter.  Set  at  night  as  a 
sponge,  and  add  the  butter  and  eggs  in  the 
morning. 

Buns. — Break  one  ^^^  into  a  cup  and 
fill  with  sweet  milk  ;  mix  with  it  half  cup- 
ful yeast,  half  cupful  butter,  one  cupful 
sugar,  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough  ; 
flavor  with  nutmeg.  Let  rise  till  very  lighc, 
then  mold  into  biscuits ;  let  raise  a  second 
time  in  pan,  bake,  and,  when  nearly  done, 
glaze  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Coffee  Cakes. — To  one  quart  light  dough 
add  one  cupful  sugar,  one-half  cupful  butter, 
one  cupful  raisins,  and  season  with  cinna- 
mon or  nutmeg  to  taste  ;  let  raise,  then  roll 
out  in  large  round  cakes ;  set  the  other  half 
away  in  a  can  in  a  cool  place  until  you 
wish  to  bake  again. 

Biscuit. — One  quart  flour,  one  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  one  of  soda,  sift  together  and  rub  in 
one  tablespoonful  of  lard,  sour  milk  to 
make  a  soft  dough,  bake  immediately  in  a 
quick  oven.  If  milk  is  not  very  sour  use 
less  soda. 

Tea  Biscuit. — Sift  together  one  quart  of 
flour  and  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
rub  in  a  tablespoonful  lard,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful salt.  Mix  with  enough  sweet  milk 
or  water  to  make  as  soft  a  dough  as  can  be 
handled.     Roll  and  cut  out  biscuit. 

Soda  Biscuit. — Rub  into  a  quart  of  sift- 
ed flour  two  tablespoonfuls  lard,  one  tea- 
spoonful salt,  one  scant  teaspoonful  soda, 
two  of  cream  of  tartar.  Mix  with  one  pint 
milk,  or  enough  to  make  a  very  soft  dough. 
Roll  and  cut  one-half  to  one  inch  thick  with 
biscuit  cutter  ;  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Graham  Muffins. — Mix  together  thor- 
oughly one  and  one-quarter  cupfuls  Gra- 
ham flour,  one  cupful  white  flour,  scant  tea- 
spoonful soda,  and  a  teaspoonful  salt.     Add 


54 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


39 


one-third  cupful  of  molasses  and  one  cupful 
Bour  milk.   Bake  in  greased  gem  pans. 

Muffins. — One  cupful  milk,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  butter  and  lard  melted,  a 
little  salt,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
flour  to  make  batter  like  cake.  Bake  in 
quick  oven. 

Corn  Meal  Muffins. — Two  eggs,  two 
tablespoonfuls  granulated  sugar,  one  cupful 
sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  granulated  corn 
meal,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  sifted  flour, 
three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  and -a 
pinch  of  salt. 

Wheat  Muffins. — One  pint  sour  milk, 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  soda,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one-half 
teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  butter,  one  beaten  ^%^,  flour 
enough  to  make  stiff  as  cake  batter.  Grease 
mufl&n  tins ;  fill  half  full,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  Sweet  milk  without  the  soda 
may  be  used.  Add  an  extra  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder. 

Breakfast  Gems — One  heaping  pint 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one 
teaspouniul  salt,  butter  half  size  of  an  ^^Z-, 
one  teacupful  water.     Bake  fifteen  minutes. 

Graham  Gems. — One  cupful  sour  milk, 
one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  one  tablespoonful 
sugar,  pinch  of  salt ;  add  Graham  flour  to 
make  stiff  batter.  Drop  in  greased  gem 
pans  and  bake  quickly.  This  amount  makes 
eight  gems. 

Waffles. — Mix  one  quart  each  milk  and 
flour,  five  tablespoonfuls  yeast,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt.  Set  this  over  night  as  a 
sponge.  In  the  morning  add  two  eggs  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  bake 
in  waffle-irons. 

Rice  and  Corn  Meal  Waffles. — Mix  a 
cupful  cold-boiled  rice,  half  cupful  each  flour 
and  corn  meal,  two  well-beaten  eggs  and 
milk  to  make  soft  batter.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful melted  butter,  one  and  one-half 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt.  Beat  smooth  and  bake  in  waffle- 
irons,  greasing  your  irons. 

Griddle  Cakes. 

Take  one  cupful  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  and  a  sprinkle  of  salt.     Sift 


SS 


the  dry  ingredients  together  into  a  bowl. 
Beat  an  ^%%,  add  a  scant  cupful  of  milk,  and 
stir  in  gradually  the  dry  ingredients,  to 
make  a  smooth  batter.  Place  an  iron  or 
soapstone  griddle  over  the  fire  and  grease  it 
with  a  little  dripping.  When  the  fat  be- 
gins to  smoke,  dip  out  the  batter  with  a 
tablespoon  or  ladle  and  pour  it  on  the  grid- 
dle to  form  cakes.  When  the  cakes  are  full 
of  bubbles,  turn  them  so  that  both  sides  may 
be  brown.  Serve  on  hot  plates,  with  syrup, 
or  butter  and  sugar,  or  place  them  in  layers, 
with  butter,  sugar  and  cinnamon  between. 

The  cakes  may  be  varied  by  adding  half- 
cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice,  hominy,  wheatena, 
oatmeal  or  canned  corn,  to  the  ingredients 
called  for.  By  using  a  half  cupful  of  corn 
meal,  rye,  Graham  flour  or  bread  crumbs, 
instead  of  the  flour  called  for  in  the  recipe, 
various  kinds  of  griddle  cakes  may  be  made. 

Bucl^wheat  Cakes. — ^Take  a  quart  of 
buckwheat  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
handful  of  Indian  meal,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  molasses.  Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
yeast  and  enough  warm  water  to  make  a 
thin  batter.  Beat  well  and  set  to  rise  in  a 
warm  place.  Let  rise  till  morning  and  bake 
quickly  on  a  hot  iron. 

Breakfast  Cakes. — Take  one  quart  bread 
crumbs  ;  pour  enough  boiling  water  over  to 
soak  them.  Add  quart  buttermilk,  three 
eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  tablespoon- 
ful of  lard,  teaspoonful  soda.  Stir  well  and 
thicken  with  flour  to  the  right  thickness  for 
griddle  cakes. 

Fritter  Batter. — Beat  the  yolk  and  the 
white  of  one  ^%z  separately.  To  the  yolk 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  little 
salt,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  water  or  milk, 
and  stir  in  flour  to  make  a  smooth  dough. 
Add  as  much  more  of  the  liquid  gradually 
to  make  a  batter,  and  beat  in  the  stiff  white 
of  the  ^zz-  ^"^Y  ii^  deep,  hot  fat.  The 
fritters  may  be  served  with  syrup,  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon,  or  with  a  pudding  sauce. 

To  make  apple  fritters,  add  one  table- 
spoonful of  sugar  to  the  batter.  Cut  apples 
into  slices,  dip  in  the  batter  and  fry  them. 
Sprinkle  them  with  sugar  and  cinnamon 
before  serving.  Oysters  and  clams  may  be 
dipped  in  the  fritter  batter  for  frying. 


40 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


Cereals. 

In  cooking  cereals  use  plenty  of  water. 
Be  careful  to  cook  cereals  thoroughly.  Ce- 
reals should  be  cooked  in  a  double  boiler,  to 
prevent  scorching. 

Avena  or  Relied    Oats. — Put  one  and 

one-half  cups  of  boiling  salted  water  into 
the  top  of  a  double  boiler.  Remove  any 
black  specks  found  in  the  oatmeal,  and  stir 
one-half  cup  of  the  meal  into  the  water. 
Cover  and  cook  from  thirty  minutes  to  one 
hour.  Serve  with  milk  or  cream  and  sugar. 
Baked  or  steamed  apples  and  other  fruits 
are  sometimes  served  with  oatmeal. 

Scotch  Oatmeal. — Pick  over  a  cup  of 
coarse  oatmeal  and  put  it,  with  one  teaspoon- 
ful  salt  and  five  cups  boiling  water,  into  a 
two  quart  covered  boiler  or  pail.  Set  it  on 
a  stand  in  large  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  let 
it  boil  slowly  &L  day  or  all  night.  This 
makes  a  jelly-like  mass  with  a  rich  flavor. 
Do  not  stir,  as  stirring  makes  it  ropy. 

Wheatlet. — Pick  over  the  wheat.  Put 
it,  wich  salt  and  six  cups  boiling  water,  into 
the  top  of  a  double  boiler.  It  may  cook 
from  thirty  minutes  to  two  hours. 

Cornmeal  Mush. — Add  salt  to  a  cup  of 
cornmeal  and  mix  one  cup  cold  water  grad- 
ually to  make  a  smooth  paste.  Pour  it  into 
a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  from  three  to  five  hours.  Serve  with 
milk  or  cream. 

Cold  mush  may  be  cut  in  slices  one-half 
inch  thick  and  fried  a  delicate  brown .  Serve 
with  syrup. 

Rice. — Take  one-half  cup  of  rice  and 
pick  out  the  specks.  Wash  and  rub  it  with 
the  hands  in  two  or  three  waters  to  make  it 
white.  Then  dry  it  in  a  clean  cloth.  Put 
it,  with  one  and  one-quarter  cups  boiling 
water  and  salt,  into  the  top  of  a  double  boiler 
and  cook  from  thirty  minutes  to  one  hour, 
until  perfectly  soft.  If  it  becomes  dry  in 
cooking,  add  one  tablespoonful  hot  water 
occasionally.  A  few  raisins,  seeded  and  cut 
into  small  pieces,  may  be  cooked  with  the 
rice  to  flavor  it.  If  the  rice  is  cooked  in 
milk  instead  of  water,  one  and  one-half  cups 
hot  milk  to  one  half  cup  rice  will  be  a  good 
proportion.     When  the  rice  is  done,  press  it 

R  Pros 


56 


into  small  cups,  let  it  cool  two  or  three 
minutes,  and  turn  the  shapes  out  on  a  pretty 
dish.     Serve  hot  with  sugar  and  milk. 

Boiled  Hominy. — Soak  over  night ;  put 
in  pot  with  two  quarts  water  to  a  quart  of 
hominy  ;  boil  slowly  for  three  hours,  or  till 
soft.  Drain  in  a  colander,  and  stir  in  but- 
ter, pepper,  and  salt.  There  are  two  grades 
of  hominy,  the  large  and  the  small  grained- 
The  latter  may  be  boiled  till  as  thick  as 
mush,  and  eaten  as  a  breakfast  dish  with 
sugar  and  cream. 

Fried  Hominy. — Cut  into  slices  cold 
boiled  hominy,  and  fry  in  hot  lard,  or  moisten 
with  milk  to  a  soft  paste  ;  add  melted  butter, 
and  a  beaten  ^%Z''  "^^^^  form  into  round  cakes 
Dredge  with  flour  and  fry  a  light  brown. 

Cakes  and  Cake=Making. 

General  Directions  for  Making  Cakes. 

— For  cakes  which  contain  butter,  cream 
the  butter,  warm  slightly  if  hard,  add  sugar 
gradually,  and  beat.  When  smooth  add 
the  yolks  of  eggs  or  whole  eggs  (beaten 
light)  and  the  milk.  Then  sift  in  the  flour, 
which  has  been  mixed  with  the  baking 
powder  and  spices.  When  the  yolks  and 
whites  are  beaten  separately,  the  whites  are 
usually  added  last. 

A  cake  can  be  made  fine-grained  by  long 
beating ;  light  and  delicate  with  a  small 
amount  of  beating.  Never  stir  cake  after 
the  final  beating.  For  cakes  which  do  not 
contain  butter,  separate  the  whites  and  yolks 
of  eggs.  Beat  the  yolks  until  thick,  add 
sugar  gradually,  and  continue  beating  ;  add 
flavoring.  Beat  whites  until  stiff  and  dry 
and  add  to  mixture. 

Sift  the  flour  with  the  salt  and  cut  and 
fold  in  lightly  at  the  last.  Do  not  beat 
mixture  after  flour  is  added,  if  baking  pow- 
der is  not  used. 

Light  Cake. — Cream  one  cup  of  butter, 
and  work  in  gradually  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  sugar.  Separate  three  eggs,  beat 
the  3'olks,  pour  in  one-half  cup  of  milk,  and 
add  to  the  creamed  butter.  Sift  with  three 
cups  of  flour  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  pow- 
der and  add  to  mixture.  Beat  well  to  make 
a  smooth  batter.  Beat  the  whites  until  stiflF 
and  fold  lightly  into  the  batter.     One  cnp 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


41 


ljurrants  or  nuts,  well  flavored,  may  be 
added.  Bake  in  round,  shallow  pans  ;  put 
the  cakes  together  with  jelly  between. 

Sponge  Cake. — Three  eggs,  one  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups 
sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  two 
teaspoonfuls  vanilla  or  lemon,  one-half  cup 
boiling  water.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks 
separately  until  light,  then  put  together  and 
•beat  again,  sift  in  sugar,  a  little  at  a  time, 
add  flavoring,  flour  and  baking  powder, 
beat  all  together,  last  stir  in  hot  water,  bake 
in  two  layers,  and  ice. 

Pound  Cake. — Take  one  pound  each  of 
flour,  sugar,  and  eggs,  three-quarters  pound 
of  butter,  one  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of 
mace.  Cream  half  the  flour  with  the  butter, 
add  spice.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and 
add  the  sugar,  then  add  the  beaten  whites 
and  the  remaining  flour.  When  this  is  done 
mix  all  thoroughly,  beating  for  half  an  hour. 
This,  if  properly  baked,  makes  an  excellent 
cake. 

Gold  Cake. — Take  one-half  pound  of  pul- 
verized sugar,  one-quarter  pound  of  butter, 
one  half  pound  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of 
milk,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  a  half  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda  and  one  of  cream  of  tartar,  and 
the  rind  of  one  lemon.     Mix  thoroughly. 

Silver  Cake. — Take  same  materials  as 
aoove,  except  that  the  whites,  instead  of  the 
yolks,  of  six  eggs  are  used.  Mix  the  soda 
and  cream  of  tartar  with  the  flour.  Flavor 
with  oil  of  bitter  almonds  instead  of  lemon 
rind.  Bake  gold  and  silver  cake  in  tins  of 
same  size,  and  lay  in  alternate  slices  in  the 
cake  basket. 

Angel  Food  Cake. — Whites  of  eleven 
eggs,  one  and  one-eighth  cups  of  sifted 
granulated  sugar,  one  cup  sifted  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  vanilla,  or  almond  flavoring, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  sift  flour 
^nd  cream  tartar  together  several  times  ; 
beat  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  on  a  platter,  add 
the  sugar  lightly,  then  the  flour  gently, 
then  the  flavoring.  Do  not  stop  a  moment 
before  putting  it  in  pan.  Bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  forty  minutes.  Do  not  grease  pan, 
but  put  several  layers  of  paper  in  the  bot- 
tom. When  done  invert  pan  and  do  not 
take  out  until  cool.     Use  plain  white  icing, 


Lemon  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  one 
cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups 
flour,  whites  of  four  eggs,  one  lemon,  grated 
rind  and  juice,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder ;  beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff"  froth  and  add 
after  the  batter  has  been  mixed ;  bake  in 
jelly  pans,  put  icing  between. 

Lemon  Jelly  Cake. — One  and  one-half 
cups  sugar,  one- half  cup  butter,  beat  to  a 
cream,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  and  one-half 
cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
three  eggs,  well  beaten,  bake  in  layers. 
Jelly  :  One  cup  sugar,  one  ^z%,  the  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  table- 
spoonful  water,  one  teaspoonful  flour,  place 
dish  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  let 
thicken,  when  cool  spread  between  layers. 

riountain  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  butter,  two  eggs  beaten  togethei 
until  light,  three  cups  flour,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  bake 
in  layers.  Icing:  White  of  one  ^z%^  beaten 
stiff,  seven  teaspoonfuls  pulverized  sugar. 

White  riountian  Cake. — One  cup  sugar, 
one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk, 
one-half  cup  corn  starch,  one  cup  flour, 
whites  of  six  eggs,  half  teaspoonful  vanilla, 
two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  Bake  in 
layers.  Icing:  Whites  of  two  eggs,  twenty 
teaspoonfuls  sifted  sugar,  beaten  very  light, 
half  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Spread  between 
layers  on  the  outside. 

Chocolate  Cake. — One-fourth  cake  of 
chocolate,  one- fourth  cup  sweet  milk,  one- 
half  cup  sugar  ;  cook  this  together,  and  when 
hot  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs .  Flavc' 
with  vanilla,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Take 
one  ^%%-,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup 
butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  a 
half  cups  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda 
dissolved  in  the  milk  ;  when  the  other  mix- 
ture is  cool  stir  the  two  together.  Bake  in 
layers,  and  put  cooked  icing  between. 

Marble  Chocolate  Cake. — Two  cups 
sugar,  three  fourths  cup  butter,  three  cups 
flour,  one  cup  milk,  four  well-beaten  eggs, 
two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  Take  one 
cup  of  this  batter  and  mix  with  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  chocolate,  dissolved  in  a  little 
cream.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with 
white  batter,  and   drop  a  spoonful  of  the 


57 


42 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


chocolate  mixture  upon  it  in  places,  which 
will  form  rings  ;  then  another  layer  of  white 
and  dark  until  all  is  used.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

Cocoanut  Cake. — Two  cups  sifted  gran- 
ulated sugar,  three- fourths  cup  butter,  beaten 
to  a  cream,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  whites  of 
seven  eggs,  two  heaping  cups  flour,  one  and 
one-half  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one 
cup  corn  starch.  Filling:  Two  cups  sugar, 
one-half  cup  cold  water.  Boil  together  and 
stir  into  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Beat  until  cold,  then  spread  on  each  layer, 
and  sprinkle  each  with  grated  cocoanut. 

Cream  Cake. — One  cup  sugar,  one  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder.  Beat  two  eggs  until  very  light, 
put  in  cup  and  fill  up  with  cream.  Bake  in 
layers  in  a  quick  oven.  Filling:  One-half 
cup  sugar,  one  ^%%,  one  tab.espoonful  flour, 
one  pint  milk,  small  tablespoonful  butter. 
Boil  gently  for  a  few  minutes,  flavor  after 
removing  from  the  stove. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. — One  cup  butter,  beat- 
en to  a  cream,  two  cups  pmverized  sugar. 
Mix  sugar  and  butter  and  beat  until  light, 
add  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  full  cups 
flour,  and  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder; 
lastly  add  the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  well 
beaten.     Bake  in  layers. 

Almond  Cake. — Whites  of  five  eggs,  two 
coffee-cups  "  A  "  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  flour, 
two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  \)ne  tea- 
spoonful  lemon  extract.  Cream,  butter  and 
sugar  together,  add  milk,  flour,  well-beaten 
whites  of  eggs,  then  the  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  three  layers.  Filling :  White  of 
one  egg  beaten  stiff,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one- 
fburth  cup  water.  Boil  water  and  sugar 
until  it  is  brittle,  when  drop  in  cold  water. 
Pour  over  the  ^^^  and  beat  well,  add  one- 
half  pound  of  blanched  and  chopped  al- 
monds, flavored  if  desired.  Then  spread 
between  layers. 

Fruit  Cake. — Four  eggs,  one  cup  sugar, 
two  cups  molasses,  one  and  one-half  cups 
butter,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  teaspoonful 
soda,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of 
currants,  one-half  pound  of  citron,  sliced 
fine,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  nutmeg, 


58 


one  teaspoonful  cloves,  five  cups  flour.  Bake 
two  and  one-half  hours,  in  a  slow  oven. 

Fruit  Cake. — One  pound  sugar,  one 
pound  butter,  one  pound  flour,  ten  eggs, 
one  pound  raisins,  one-half  pound  currants, 
one-fourth  pound  citron,  one  nutmeg,  one 
tablespoonful  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful 
ginger  and  allspice  mixed,  one  tablespoon- 
ful vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  soda.  Bake 
slowly. 

Boiled  Frosting — Take  one  cup  granu- 
lated sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  one-eighth 
teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  mix  together 
and  cook  without  stirring  until  the  liquid, 
when  dropped  from  a  spoon,  will  thread. 
Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs.  Remove  the 
mixture  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  pour  it 
slowly  upon  the  whites  of  eggs,  beating  all 
the  while.  Continue  beating  until  the  mix- 
ture is  a  thick,  creamy  mass  :  then  spread  it 
over  the  cake. 

Egg  Frosting. — Beat  the  white  of  an 
^%^  until  light.  Then  beat  into  it,  gradu- 
ally, enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Add  one-quarter  teaspoonful  lemon 
extract,  or  one  teaspoonful  lemon  or  orange 
juice,  or  one-quarter  teaspoonful  vanilla, 
and  spread  it  on  the  cake. 

One  tablespoonful  melted  chocolate,  or 
one  tablespoonful  desiccated  cocoanut  may 
be  mixed  with  it.  The  yolk  of  the  ^^^  may 
be  used  instead  of  the  white  to  make  Sun- 
shine Frosting. 

Plain  Frosting. — Mix  one  cup  sugar 
and  a  tablespoonful  lemon  or  orange  juice  ; 
stir  in  enough  boiling  milk  or  water  to  make 
a  soft  dough.  Spread  it  over  the  cake. 
This  may  be  varied  by  adding  difi'erent  in- 
gredients as  in  the  preceding  recipes. 

Chocolate  Filling. — Beat  together  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  cream,  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  two  sections  of  a  cake  of 
chocolate  ;  put  in  saucepan  and  boil  until 
thick  enough  to  spread. 

Cream  Filling. — One  pint  of  sweet 
cream  beaten  until  it  looks  like  ice-cream  ; 
add  one  cup  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla ; 
blanch  and  chop  one  pound  of  almonds,  stir  in 
cream  and  spread  very  thick  between  layers. 

Soft  Gingerbread. — One-half  cup  of 
lard,  one  cup  each  of  milk  and  sugar,  two 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


43 


of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  two 
tablespoonfuls  cinnamon,  and  one  of  ginger. 
Stir  butter,  sugar,  molasses  and  spice  to- 
gether, add  the  milk  and  soda,  and,  lastly, 
about  five  cups  of  flour.  Beat  hard,  and 
bake  into  a  loaf,  or  in  small  tins.  Some 
seeded  raisins  will  improve.     Add  these  last. 

Ginger  Crackers. — Take  one  pint  mo- 
lasses, one  cup  of  shortening,  and  one  of 
sugar,  with  ginger  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 
Add  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Roll  very  thin,  cut  into  small  cakes,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.  For  plain  cookies 
use  only  one-half  cup  shortening. 

Ginger  Snaps. — One  cup  each  of  sugar, 
molasses  and  lard,  one  ^zZ->  one  tablespoon- 
ful  ginger,  one  tablespoonful  vinegar,  dis- 
solving in  the  vinegar  one  teaspoonful  soda. 
Use  no  milk  or  water.  Mix  in  seven  cups 
flour  and  knead.  Roll  out  in  any  shape 
desired  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Risen  Doughnuts. — Take  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing milk,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  a  half  pint  of  yeast,  and  two  eggs. 
Beat  together  the  eggs,  butter  and  sugar, 
and  then  pour  in  the  milk.  Let  it  rise  three 
times,  the  last  rising  after  they  are  cut  out. 
Fry  in  smoking-h6t  lard.  Sift  with  pow- 
dered sugar  while  hot. 

Crullers. — Cream  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  work  in  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon , 
beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  two  eggs  sepa- 
rately, then  together,  and  stir  into  the  bat- 
ter. Sift  two-thirds  cup  sugar  and  one  tea- 
spoonful baking  powder  with  two  cups  flour, 
add  to  the  eggs  and  butter,  mix  well,  and 
stir  in  gradually  one-quarter  to  one-half  cup 
milk.  Roll  out,  cut  in  rounds,  with  a  small 
round  out  of  the  centre  of  each  ;  fry  in  deep, 
hot  fat,  turning  as  the  sides  are  browned. 
Lift  from  the  fat  with  a  wire  frying-spoon, 
and  lay  on  brown  paper  to  drain. 

Jumbles, — Mix  one  pound  each  flour 
and  granulated  sugar  and  one  grated  nut- 
meg. Put  in  one  pound  butter,  and  stir  in 
two  beaten  eggs.  Sift  granulated  sugar  on 
a  board,  lay  the  dough  on  it,  roll  out  one- 
third  inch  thick,  cut  out  with  a  round  cut- 
ter, and  cut  out  a  circle  in  the  centre.  Bake 
in  a  buttered  pan,  in  a  moderately  hot  oven, 
from  ten  to  twenty  minutes. 


Cocoanut  Jumbles. — Grate  one  cocoa- 
nut.  Rub  one-half  pound  butter  and  sifted 
sugar  together.  Mix  with  one  pound  of 
sifted  flour  and  three  well -beaten  eggs,  with 
a  little  rose  water.  Mix  the  cocoanut  grad- 
ually, so  as  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Bake  in 
a  quick  oven,  placing  the  batter  in  small 
particles  in  tin  pans,  or  on  greased  paper. 

Sugar  Cookies.^Cream  one  cup  sugar 
and  one-half  cup  butter,  beat  one  ^^%  and 
add  it  with  one-quarter  cup  milk.  Sift  in 
one  teaspoonful  baking  powder  with  one  cup 
of  flour.  Flavor  with  one-quarter  teaspoon- 
ful lemon  or  vanilla.  Stir  in  more  flour  to 
make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to  handle.  Roll 
out  on  a  floured  board  until  one-quarter 
inch  thick .    Bake  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes . 

Lemon  Crackers. — Two  and  one-half 
cups  soft  sugar,  one  cup  lard,  one  pint 
sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  five  cents'  worth  bak- 
ing ammonia,  two  cents'  worth  lemon  oil. 
Dissolve  ammonia  in  the  milk,  or  in  a  little  ' 
hot  water,  make  dough  as  stiff  as  for  pies, 
and  roll  very  thin,  cut  with  square  cake  cut- 
ter, prick  with  fork,  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Cracknells. — To  one  pint  rich  milk  add 
two  ounces  butter  and  one  tablespoonful 
yeast,  make  it  warm,  and  mix  enough  flour 
to  make  a  light  dough.  Roll  thin  and  cut 
in  any  shape  desired,  prick  well  with  fork, 
and  bake  in  slow  oven,  allowing  to  rise  as 
they  bake. 

Chocolate  Drops. — One-half  cake  grated 
chocolate,  one  pound  sugar,  four  eggs,  one 
lemon,  one  tablespoonful  baking  powder, 
one  tablespoonful  cinnamon,  flour  enough  to 
roll,  cut  out,  place  on  greased  pan  and  bake. 

Swiss  Puffs. — Two  eggs,  beat  light,  a 
pinch  of  salt  in  flour  enough  to  make  stifi" 
dough,  take  out  small  bits,  roll  very  thin 
and  cut  in  strips,  twist  and  join  the  ends 
together.  Fry  in  hot  lard,  lift  with  fork,  and 
let  drain.     Sprinkle  with  pulverized  sugar. 

Cream  Puffs. — Melt  one-half  cup  but- 
ter in  one  cup  boiling  water,  stir  in  one  cup 
flour,  take  off  stove  and  beat  thoroughly  and 
let  it  cool.  Stir  in  three  eggs,  one  at  a  time 
without  beating,  mix  thoroughly  and  drop 
a  heaping  teaspoonful  in  greased  pans,  two 
or  three  inches  apart,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 


59 


44 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


oven  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes,  or  until 
none ;  if  not  done  they  will  fall.  When 
cold  cut  open  near  the  top  and  fill  with  cus- 
tard cream.  Cream: — Two-thirds  pint 
sweet  milk,  four  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one 
^ZZ^  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  wet  in  a  little 
milk.  Mix  all  together  and  boil  until  it 
thickens,  add  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  and 
let  cool  a  little,  then  fill  pufis. 

Hickory  nut  Snaps — Three  cups  chopped 
nuts,  one  pound  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  cin- 
namon, three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  baking 
powder,  two  cups  flour.  Mix  well,  drop 
from  teaspoon  on  greased  pan,  and  bake  a 
light  brown. 

Tea  Cake. — Two  well-beaten  eggs,  two 
cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful flavoring,  five  pints  flour,  with  two 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  mixed 
into  it.  Mix  thoroughly  and  add  one-half 
cup  sweet  milk,  or  one  cup  sour  cream, 
beaten  to  a  foam  with  soda.  Take  upon  the 
bread  board  and  mix  stiff.  Bake  in  hot  oven. 

Custards  and  Creams. 

Cup  Custard. — Scald  one  pint  milk. 
Beat  two  eggs,  add  the  milk,  sprinkle  of 
salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  stir 
until  the  sugar  dissolves.  If  desired,  a 
little  nutmeg  may  be  added.  Pour  into 
cups,  stand  the  cups  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water,  put  the  pan  in  the  oven  and  bake 
until  the  custards  are  firm  in  the  centre. 

To  make  a  bread-and-butter  pudding, 
pour  the  custard  into  a  pudding-dish  and 
place  buttered  slices  of  bread  on  top  of  the 
custard.  Stand  the  pudding-dish  in  a  pan 
of  boiling  water  and  bake  in  the  oven. 

To  test  baked  custard.  Put  a  knife  in 
the  centre  ;  if  it  comes  out  without  ^%%  or 
milk  on  it  the  custard  is  cooked.  Over- 
cooking will  curdle  it. 

Steamed  Custard.  —  Scald  one  pint 
milk.  Mix  one  teaspoonful  cocoa  with  a 
little  cold  milk  and  stir  into  the  hot  milk. 
Boil  one  minute.  Separate  two  eggs,  keep- 
ing the  whites  in  a  cool  place.  Beat  the  two 
yolks  and  one  whole  0.%%  together,  add  salt 
and  three  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  stir  into 
the  hot  milk.     If  liquid  flavoring,  instead  of 


cocoa,  is  used,  add  it  last,  and  pour  the  mix- 
ture into  a  pudding-dish  o*"  into  cups.  Set 
it  into  a  pan  of  hot  water  or  into  a  steamer 
over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  until  the  cus- 
tard is  solid.  Just  before  meal  time  beat 
the  two  whites  of  eggs  stifi",  add  half  table- 
spoonful  sugar  and  half  tablespoonful  red 
jelly  or  jam,  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  the 
custard  for  a  meringue  or  float. 

Snow  Custard. — Take  one  quart  ol 
milk,  sweeten  and  flavor  with  lemon  and 
vanilla.  Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil,  and  lay 
on  top  the  whites  of  five  eggs  beaten  to  a 
froth.  When  the  whites  have  cooked 
slightly,  remove  and  lay  on  a  dish.  Then 
add  the  boiling  milk  to  the  beaten  yolks, 
stirring  constantly,  and  put  on  the  fire  until 
near  boiling.  Then  remove  it,  and  lay  the 
whites  carefully  on  top. 

Floating  Island. — Scald  one  pint  milk. 
Separate  three  eggs.  Add  salt  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  sugar  to  the  yolk  and  beat. 
Beat  the  whites  until  very  stifi",  add  one 
teaspoonful  powdered  sugar  to  them,  beat 
slightly,  and  drop  spoonfuls  of  the  stiff 
whites  on  top  of  the  scalded  milk.  Let 
them  cook  two  or  three  minutes,  until  firm, 
lift  cut  on  a  plate,  and  pour  the  scalded 
milk  oj.  the  beaten  yolks.  Put  this  mixture 
into  a  double  boiler,  and  stir  until  it  thick- 
ens. Pour  it  into  a  china  or  glass  dish. 
When  nearly  cool,  stir  in  the  flavoring,  put 
the  whites  on  the  top,  and  serve  cold,  as  a 
pudding.  A  pretty  way  to  serve  it  is  to  put 
specks  of  jellj'  on  the  tops  of  the  whites. 

To  make  cocoanut  or  chocolate  custard, 
cook  two  tablespoonfuls  cocoanut  or  one- 
half  tablespoonful  melted  chocolate  in  the 
scalded  milk. 

Tapioca  Custard. — Soak  three  heaping 
teaspoonfuls  of  tapioca  over  night.  Place 
over  fire  one  quart  milk,  let  come  to  a  boil, 
then  stir  in  tapioca,  pinch  of  salt ;  one  cup 
sugar  and  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Stii 
quickly  and  place  in  dish.  Place  on  top 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten.  Set 
on  ice. 

Small  Custard. — Beat  one  egg,  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  sugar  ;  one-half  pint 
milk.  Put  in  cup,  set  in  vessel  of  boiling 
water  and  bake. 


60 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


45 


Baked  Custard.  —  Four  well-beaten 
eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  one- 
naif  pints  milk  ;  flavor  with  nutmeg.  Bake 
from  three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  an  hour, 
according  to  temperature  of  oven.  If  baked 
too  long  it  will  be  watery.  As  soon  as  it 
solid  clear  through  it  is  done.  Set  baking- 
dish  in  a  pan  of  water  while  baking. 

Peach  Cream. — To  one  quart  of  ripe 
peaches,  peeled  and  rubbed  through  sieve, 
add  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  granulated 
sugar.  Beat  together  until  a  stiff  cream  is 
formed.     Serve  cold. 

Banana  Cream. —  After  peeling  the 
bananas,  mash  fine  with  a  spoon,  then 
allow  equal  parts  of  bananas  and  sweet 
cream.  To  one  quart  of  the  mixture  add 
one-fourth  pound  sugar.  Beat  all  together 
until  the  cream  is  light. 

Spanish  Cream. — Scald  three  cups  milk 
with  one-quarter  box  gelatine,  add  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  and  pour  on  yolks  of  three 
eggs  slightly  beaten.  Cook  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly  ;  remove  from  heat,  add 
salt,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  and  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into  mold  wet  with 
cold  water. 

Apple  Snow. — Peel  and  grate  one  large 
sour  apple,  sprinkling  over  it  a  small  cup 
of  powdered  sugar  as  you  grate  it,  to  keep 
it  from  turning  dark ;  break  into  this  the 
whites  of  two  eggs,  and  beat  it  all  con- 
stantly for  half  an  hour  ;  take  care  to  have 
it  in  a  large  vessel,  as  it  beats  up  very  stiff 
and  light ;  heap  in  a  glass  dish  and  pour  a 
fine,  smooth  custard  around  it  and  serve. 
A  very  delicate  dessert. 

Raspberry  Float. — Crush  one  pint  ripe 
red  raspberries  with  gill  of  sugar.  Beat 
whites  of  four  eggs  to  stiff  froth  and  add 
gradually  a  gill  of  powdered  sugar.  Press 
raspberries  through  fine  strainer  to  remove 
seeds,  and  by  degrees  beat  in  juice,  ^^^ 
and  sugar  until  so  stiff  that  it  will  stand 
in  pyramids. 

Lemon  Jelly. — Take  one  ounce  gela- 
tine, cover  with  one  pint  cold  water,  let 
stand  for  one  hour.  Add  one  pint  of  hot 
water  and  juice  of  three  lemons  ;  sweeten  to 
taste  and  let  boil ;  strain  and  set  away  to  cool. 


6i 


For  orange  jelly,  omit  the  lemon  juicC;, 
slice  four  oranges,  and  place  in  a  glass  jar. 
Pour  gelatine  over  and  eat  cold. 

Strawberry  Charlotte. — Make  boiled 
custard  of  one  quart  of  milk,  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  three-fourths  cup  sugar.  Place  in 
fruit  dish,  pieces  of  cake  dipped  in  sweet 
cream,  lay  upon  this  ripe  strawberries 
sweetened  to  taste,  and  alternate  layers  of 
cake  and  berries.  When  the  custard  is  cold 
pour  over  it  cake  and  berries.  Beat  whites 
of  eggs  to  stiff  froth,  add  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar  and  place  on  top  of  custard. 

Tapioca  Cream. — Soak  over  night  two 
tablespoonfuls  tapioca  in  one-half  teacup 
milk  (or  enough  to  cover),  bring  one  quart 
milk  to  boiling  point.  Beat  well  together 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
one  teaspoonful  vanilla  or  lemon  for  flavor 
ing.  Add  tapioca  and  stir  the  whole  into 
boiling  milk,  let  boil,  turn  into  dish,  and 
immediately  turn  on  the  well-beaten  whites. 
Serve  cold. 


Puddings  and  Sauces. 

Cabinet  Pudding. — Cream  together  a 
quarter  pound  butter  and  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  sugar.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  five 
eggs,  and  a  half  pound  of  flour  moistened 
with  a  cup  of  milk,  alternately  with  the 
whites.  Add  lastly  a  half  pound  seeded  and 
cut  raisins,  a  quarter  pound  currants,  and 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon, 
well  dredged  with  flour.  Cook  for  two  and 
a  half  hours  in  a  buttered  mold.  Serve  hot 
with  cabinet-pudding  sauce. 

This  sauce  is  made  as  follows :  Rub 
together  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peel  of  a 
lemon,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 
Beat  ten  minutes,  add  a  glass  of  wine,  and 
stir  hard.  Set  in  boiling  water  and  beat 
while  heating,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 

Cottage  Pudding. — Rub  together  a  cup 
of  sugar  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Beat  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  then  add  a 
cup  of  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  one 
of  soda,  and  the  beaten  whites,  and  enough 
of  flour  to  make  a  moderately  thick  batter, 


46 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOh 


To  the  flour  add  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar.  Bake  in  a  buttered  mold,  cut  in 
slices,  and  eat  with  sauce. 

Bread  Crumb  Pudding. — Take  one 
cup  bread  crumbs  and  half  cup  sugar,  put 
them  into  a  pint  of  scalded  milk,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  butter,  the  rind  and  half  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  and  stir  the  mixture  into  them.  Bake 
in  a  buttered  dish  about  thirty  minutes,  or 
until  thick  and  brown.  Cool  and  spread  a 
meringue  of  the  beaten  whites,  half  cup  pul- 
verized sugar  and  the  remainder  of  the 
lemon  juice  on  the  top.  Brown  in  the  oven 
and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

Bread=and=Butter  Pudding. — Cut  thin 
slices  of  stale  bread,  butter  thickly  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar.  Fit  neatly  into  a  but- 
tered pudding  dish  until  half  full.  Lay  on 
top  a  plate  to  keep  them  from  floating,  and 
pour  in  a  custard  made  of  three  cups  of  hot 
milk,  four  beaten  eggs,  and  nearly  a  cup  of 
"iugar.  Season  with  vanilla  and  nutmeg. 
i,et  soak  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  remove 
the  plate  and  put  in  the  oven.  If  the'  bread 
still  inclines  to  float,  hold  it  down  with  a 
fork  until  the  custard  thickens.  Eat  cold. 
L,ayers  of  currants  improve  this. 

Rice  Pudding. — Wash  a  cup  of  rice  and 
soak  for  two  hours  in  a  pint  of  milk.  Then 
add  three  pints  of  milk,  a  spoonful  of  salt, 
butter  of  the  size  of  an  ^^^  melted,  and 
flavor  with  nutmeg  and  cinnamon.  Bake 
two  hours. 

Bag  Pudding. — 'Take  one  cup  each  of 
milk,  syrup  molasses,  and  finely  chopped 
suet,  half  a  pound  of  currants,  and  three 
cups  of  flour.  Mix  thoroughly,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  each,  of  soda  and  ginger.  Pour 
into  your  pudding-bag,  tie  closely,  and  boil 
for  two  hours. 

Tapioca  Pudding. — Add  to  three  pints 
of  milk  eight  large  tablespoonfuls  tapioca. 
Warm,  and  let  soak  until  soft.  Then  stir, 
and  mix  in  two  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter, 
four  beaten  eggs,  four  spoonfuls  sugar,  one 
glass  wine,  a  grated  nutmeg  and  the  rind  of 
a  lemon.     Bake  immediately. 

Block  Pudding. — Take  three  cups  flour, 
one  cup  each  of  molasses,  sweet  milk,  and 
finely  chopped  suet    a  teaspoonful  each  of 


62 


cloves,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg,  and  a  half 
pound  of  raisins.  Stir  well  together,  boil 
for  four  hours,  and  serve  with  sauce. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding. — Mix  together 
half  cup  corn  meal,  quarter  cup  flour,  one 
^SS>  quarter  cup  New  Orleans  molasses, 
with  a  little  salt,  ginger  and  cinnamon. 
Stir  these  into  three  cups  of  hot  milk.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.  When  the  top  begins 
to  brown  pour  a  little  cold  milk  over  it  and 
cover  it.  Bake  four  to  five  hours,  putting 
cold  milk  on  the  top  every  hour.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce  or  with  cream  and  sugar. 

5uet  Pudding. — Three  cups  flour,  one 
cup  chopped  suet,  one  heaping  cup  chopped 
raisins,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls baking  powder ;  mix  one  cup  flour  while 
chopping  raisins,  then  suet  and  baking 
powder,  then  the  other  cup  flour,  water 
enough  to  finish  mixing ;  put  in  a  sack, 
boil  two  or  three  hours.  Sauce : — Table- 
spoonful  flour,  butter  size  of  one-half  ^%%, 
one-half  teacup  sugar,  nutmeg  and  vinegar 
to  taste,  one  pint  of  water,  boil  all  together. 

Batter  Pudding. — One  pint  milk,  four 
tablespoonfuls  flour,  pinch  of  salt.  Scald 
the  milk,  taking  out  some  to  smooth  tht 
flour,  then  stir  into  the  milk  until  it  thickens 
and  stand  away  to  cool.  At  noon  beat  the 
5'^olks  of  five  eggs  and  stir  in,  then  the 
whites  well  beaten  and  bake  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes.  Serve  while  hot.  Sauce: — Cream, 
one  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  add 
flavoring  and  one-half  pint  of  whipped 
cream. 

Chocolate  Pudding.— One  quart  sweet 
milk,  one  small  cup  of  sugar,  two  well- 
beaten  eggs,  six  tablespoonfuls  grated  choco- 
late, two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch, 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk,  a  small  piece 
of  butter.  Let  boil  a  few  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  To  be  served  with  whipped 
cream,  or  sugar  and  cream. 

Cottage  Pudding. — One  cup  milk,  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  one  ^^Z-<  ^wo  tablespoonfuls 
melted  butter,  one  teaspoonful  baking 
powder,  sifted  with  one  pint  of  flour.  Bake 
half  hour  and  serve  with  liquid  sauce. 
Sauce  : — Two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  cup 
sugar,  teaspoonful  vanilla,  tablespoonful  of 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


47 


butter  ;  mix  these  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
cold  water,  put  in  sauce-pan  and  pour  slowly 
in  a  little  less  than  a  pint  of  boiling  water. 

New  Century  Pudding. — Take  one  cup 
each  of  suet,  sugar,  currants,  raisins  and 
milk,  add  three  cups  of  flour.  Shred  and 
chop  fine  the  suet  and  prepare  the  fruit. 
Beat  together  until  light  the  suet  and  sugar 
and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  ;  add  the  milk 
and  flour ;  beat  until  smooth  ;  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  a  teaspoonful 
each  cinnamon  and  a  little  salt,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder.  Mix  well,  flour 
the  fruit  and  add  ;  turn  into  a  greased  mold 
and  boil  for  three  hours.  Serve  hot,  with 
wine  or  hard  sauce. 

Cream  Pudding. — Stir  together  one 
pint  of  cream,  three  ounces  sugar,  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  add  the 
well-beaten  whites,  stirring  lightly,  pour 
into  a  buttered  pie  plate  on  which  has  been 
sprinkled  crumbs  of  stale  bread  to  the  thick- 
ness of  an  ordinary  crust,  sprinkle  over  the 
top  a  layer  of  breadcrumbs  and  bake. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. — One  pint  sweet 
milk,  one-half  cup  sugar  ;  let  milk  come  to 
boil  (in  custard  kettle),  add  sugar,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in 
cold  milk,  two  cups  grated  cocoanut  (less 
will  do),  stir  well,  cook  until  it  thickens, 
remove  from  fire,  gently  beat  in  the  whites 
of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  and  vanilla  each.  Pour 
in  molds  and  serve  with  v/hipped  cream 
when  cold,  or  pour  half  in  mold,  add  a  few 
drops  of  red  fruit  coloring  to  the  remaining 
half  and  pour  on  top,  or  flavor  part  with 
two  spoonfuls  of  melted  chocolate. 

Cup  Pudding. — Make  a  batter  as  for 
waffles  ;  to  one  pint  of  milk  allow  two  eggs 
and  enough  flour  to  thicken,  one  teaspoon- 
ful baking  powder,  stirred  in  the  flour. 
Butter  a  sufficient  number  of  teacups  and 
fill  with  this  and  fruits  in  layers.  Set  cups 
in  a  steamer,  boil  water  underneath  for 
one  hour.  Serve  while  hot  with  sugar  and 
cream.  Any  jam  or  raw  apples  chopped 
fine  is  nice  with  this. 

Lemon  Pudding.— The  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  sugar,  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch, 


63 


a  pinch  of  salt,  one  pint  sweet  milk ;  mix 
corn  starch  and  part  of  milk  to  a  smooth 
paste,  add  lemon  and  sugar,  &^^  well  beaten 
and  the  rest  of  the  milk.  Line  a  jelly  tin 
with  a  rich  puff  paste  one-fourth  inch  thick, 
pour  custard  in,  and  bake  until  done;  beat 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar,  spread  over  the  top,  return 
to  oven  and  brown  ;  serve  with  whipped 
cream.  This  is  a  rich  but  not  expensive 
pudding. 

Brown  Betty. — Chop  two  cups  of  tart 
apples  ;  put  a  layer  into  a  deep  dish,  but- 
tered ;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  a  little  but- 
ter and  cinnamon  ;  cover  with  breadcrumbs, 
and  add  more  apple.  Continue  till  the  dish 
is  full,  add  a  thick  layer  of  crumbs,  cover 
closely,  and  steam  for  nearly  an  hour  in 
a  slow  oven.  Then  uncover  and  brown 
quickly.  Eat  warm  with  sweet  sauce,  or 
sugar  and  cream. 

Cherry  Roll. — Seed  one  quart  fruit, 
sweeten  to  taste,  let  it  simmer  in  its  own 
juice  until  quite  thick,  pour  one  quart  of 
milk  over  a  loaf  of  grated  bread,  beat  three 
eggs  very  light,  and  add  the  milk,  with  a 
little  flour  and  large  lump  of  butter  melted. 
Put  the  cherries  inside  the  batter  and  stir 
well .  Steam  in  cups  or  baking  powder  cans 
two  hours. 

Apple  Roll. — One  pint  flour,  one  and 
one-half  tablespoonfuls  butter,  pinch  of  salt, 
add  water  to  make  a  soft  dough,  roll  one- 
half  inch  thick  ;  chop  two  large  apples  fine, 
spread  over  the  cake,  roll  up,  fasten,  place 
in  pan  to  bake.  Pour  over  this  one  and 
one-half  pints  of  boiling  water,  one  cup 
sugar,  one-half  cup  butter.  Cover  pan, 
bake  one  hour,  basting  often  with  sauce. 
For  small  family  use  one-half  of  recipe. 

Apple  Tapioca. — Pick  over  and  wash 
three-quarters  cup  tapioca  or  sago  and  soak 
about  one  hour.  Pour  on  a  quart  of  hot 
water,  cook  till  clear;  stir  often,  add  salt. 
Prepare  and  core  six  apples,  slice  or  put 
them  whole  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
sprinkle  sugar  and  spice  over  them,  and 
.turn  in  the  tapioca.  Bake  till  the  apples 
are  soft ;  flavor  with  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 
Serve  with  cream  or  milk  and  sugar. 
Peaches  may  be  used  instead  of  apples. 


♦8 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


Pudding  Sauce. — One  cup  boiling  water, 
one  tablespoonful  corn  starch,  one-fourth 
cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  &g%,  one- 
fourth  nutmeg,  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
jelly.  Wet  the  corn  starch  in  cold  water, 
stir  into  boiling  water,  boil  ten  minutes. 
Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the 
egg  well  beaten  and  nutmeg.  Add  jelly  to 
the  corn  starch,  and  pour  this  in  the  ^^^ 
mixture,  and  stir  rapidly  until  they  are 
thoroughly  blended. 

Lemon  Sauce. — Mix  one-half  cup  sugar 
and  one  tablespoonful  corn  starch ;  add 
slowly  one  cup  boiling  water,  stirring  care- 
fully ;  boil  until  transparent ;  remove  from 
fire.  Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  little 
nutmeg. 

Cold  Cream  Sauce. — Beat  together  one 
cup  sugar  and  one  half  cup  butter,  and  add 
a  cup  rich  cream.  Stir  all  to  a  cream  ; 
flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon,  and  let  get 
very  cold  before  serving. 

Plain  Cream  Sauce. — One  pint  cream, 
three  ounces  brown  sugar,  and  half  of  a 
small  nutmeg  grated. 

Hard  Sauce. — Cream  one-half  cup  but- 
ter, Vork  in  one  cup  pulverized  sugar  grad- 
ually, and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  lemon 
juice  or  one  tablespoonful  lemon  juice  and 
one  tablespoonful  vanilla.  Beat  until  foamy. 
Serve  with  hot  pudding. 

Pies  and   Pastry. 

Pie=Crust. — One  cup  shortening,  three 
cups  flour,  little  salt,  rub  t'^e  flour,  short- 
ening and  salt  all  well  together.  Use 
enough  cold  water  to  hold  all  together,  no 
more.  Handle  as  little  as  possible.  Crust 
for  one  pie : — One  coffee  cup  flour,  lard 
size  of  an  ^zZ->  one  fourth  teaspoonful  salt, 
water  just  to  wet  the  other  ingredients. 

Puff  Paste. — Take  a  pound  of  flour  and 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter.  Chop 
half  the  butter  into  the  flour.  Beat  the  yolk 
of  an  &ZZ'  s^'^  i^  '\\\\o  half  a  cup  of  ice 
water,  and  with  this  work  the  flour  into  a 
stifi" dough.  Roll  ovit  thin,  add  in  bits  one- 
third  the  remaining  butter;  fold,  and  roll 
out  again,  and  continue  till  all  the  butter  is 
used.     Roll  very  thin,   fold,  and  set  in  an 


64 


ice-cold  place  for  a  quarter  hour.  Then 
make  your  crust.  This  paste  will  serve 
both  for  fruit  pies  and  for  oyster  pates. 

Short=Cake  Paste. — Sift  together  two 
cups  flour,  half  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar, 
and  quarter  teaspoonful  each  soda  and  salt, 
and  rub  in  half  cup  of  butter,  keeping  it  as 
cold  as  possible.  Stir  in  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk  to  make  a  dough  soft  enough  to  handle. 
Turn  it  on  a  floured  board  ;  divide  the  dough 
into  halves  and  roll  each  piece  out  to  fit  a 
round  tin  plate.  Bake  at  once,  in  a  hot 
oven.  When  done,  turn  out  each  cake  and 
lay  it  en  the  under  side  of  the  baking-tin. 
With  a  thin,  sharp  knife,  split  the  cake 
evenly,  and  lay  the  bottom  crust  on  a  china 
plate.  Butter  each  half.  Lay  partly 
mashed,  sweetened  strawberries,  peaches, 
apple- sauce,  stewed  rhubarb,  or  any  hot 
cooked  fruit  suitable  for  pies,  on  the  under 
crust,  lay  the  upper  crust  over  it,  and  serve 
as  a  pie.  Powdered  sugar  may  be  sifted 
over  the  top.     Serve  with  cream. 

Apple  Pie. — Pare,  core,  and  slice  tart 
apples,  put  a  layer  of  fruit  in  your  crust, 
sprinkle  thickly  with  light  brown  sugar,  add 
more  apples,  and  go  on  till  thick  enough. 
Cover  with  top  crust  and  bake.  Sift  pow- 
dered sugar  over  the  top. 

Apple  Custard  Pie. — Take  three  cups 
stewed  apples,  which  make  very  sweet  with 
sugar,  and  let  cool.  Beat  the  yolks  and 
whites  of  three  eggs  separately,  and  mix 
the  yolks  well  with  the  apples,  seasoning 
with  nutmeg.  Then  stir  in  one  quart  of 
milk,  beating  as  you  do  it.  Lastly,  add  the 
whites,  fill  the  crusts,  and  bake  without 
top  crust. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — Take  a  quart  of  stewed 
pumpkin,  which  has  been  pressed  through 
a  sieve  ;  six  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 
separately,  two  quarts  milk,  a  cup  or  more 
of  sugar,  and  mace,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg 
for  flavoring.  Beat  all  well  together,  and 
bake  without  top  crust. 

Lemon  Pie. — Take  the  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  of  white  sugar, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sifted  flour  and  suflBcient  milk  to  fill  a  plate. 
Bake  v^^ithout  an  upper  crust.  Bake  till 
nearly  done  and  then  add  a  frosting  made  of 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


49 


the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  two 
tablespoonfnls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  set 
back  in  the  oven  to  brown  slightly. 

Cherry  Pie. — I^ine  the  dish  with  crust ; 
fill  with  ripe  cherries,  sugared  in  accord- 
ance with  their  degree  of  sweetness  ;  cover 
and  bake.  Sift  white  sugar  over  the  top. 
Fruit  pies  generally  are  made  in  the  same 
way.     They  should  be  eaten  cold. 

Mince  Pie. — Take  four  pounds  of  meat 
(boiled  lean  beef)  and  apple — two-thirds 
Deing  apple.  Add  half  a  pound  of  suet. 
Chop  each  separately,  and  when  fine  mix 
thoroughly.  Then  put  in  three  pounds  of 
chopped  raisins  and  two  of  carefully  picked 
currants,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon, 
nutmeg,  cloves,  and  half  a  spoonful  of  mace, 
with  brown  sugar  to  make  very  sweet.  Add 
three  quarts  cider.  Mix  thoroughly,  cover 
closely,  and  let  stand  for  a  day  before  using. 
This  will  keep  all  winter,  and  may  be  used 
as  wanted.  The  flavor  is  much  improved  if 
it  is  allowed  to  stand  a  week  or  so.  Add 
one  pint  of  brandy  if  desired. 

Cocoanut  Pie. — One  large  cup  of  grated 
cocoanut,  one  quart  of  milk,  the  yolks  of 
five  eggs,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
hickory  nut,  sweeten  to  suit  taste.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  spread  over  the  pies 
after  done,  and  return  to  oven  and  brown. 
This  will  make  two  pies. 

Custard  Pie. — One-half  cup  sugar,  one 
quart  rich  milk,  two  tablespoonfnls  corn 
starch,  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Put  on  stove 
and  stir  until  thick.  Beat  whites  of  four 
eggs  to  stiff  froth,  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  spread  on  top,  and  brown.  This  will 
make  two  pies. 

Cream  Pie. — One  pint  sweet  milk,  one 
tg'g  beaten  separately,  one  tablespoonful 
flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  lump  of 
butter;  flavor  with  lemon.  Use  white  of 
^^^  for  top.  Cook  in  a  kettle.  Bake  crust 
first.  Put  into  crust,  place  white  of  egg  on 
top.  Place  in  oven  to  brown.  This  will 
make  one  pie. 

Ice  Cream  Pie, — One  pint  of  cream, 
whites  of  two  eggs,  half  cup  sugar,  teaspoon- 
ful vanilla.  Beat  eggs  to  stiff  froth,  add 
other  ingredients,  bake  with  one  crust. 

25  ^  65 


Strawberry  Pie. — I,ine  a  deep  pie  pan 
with  rich  crust,  and  bake.  Fill  with  the 
following  :  Whites  of  two  eggs,  half  cup  of 
sugar,  one  pint  of  fresh  berries.  Beat  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  in  sugar  and 
berries.     Bake  slowly  fifteen  minutes. 

Pieplant  Pie. — Mix  half  cup  sugar  with 
one  heaping  teaspoonful  flour;  sprinkle 
over  the  bottom  crust,  then  add  pieplant 
cut  up  fine  ;  sprinkle  over  this  another  half 
teacup  sugar  and  heaping  teaspoonful  flour ; 
bake  with  upper  crust  fully  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  in  slow  oven. 

Pineapple  Pie. — Five  eggs,  one  cup 
sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet 
cream,  one  pineapple  grated.  Beat  the  but- 
ter and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  the  pineapple  and 
cream,  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites  whipped 
in  lightly.  Take  each  section  out  with  a 
steel  fork  and  cut  off  the  blossom,  then  chop 
them  up  very  fine,  and  add  the  grated  core 
or  heart.  Bake  them  with  an  under  crust 
only. 

Peach  Pie. — Slice  the  peaches  ;  line  a 
pie  plate  with  crust  and  lay  in  fruit,  sprink- 
ling with  sugar.  Ripe  peaches  need  little. 
Add  three  chopped  peach  kernels  to  each 
pie  ;  add  a  little  water.  Bake  with  an  upper 
crust,  or  with  cross-bars  of  crust. 

Strawberry  Short=Cake.  —  Take  two 
cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
one- quarter  teaspoonful  salt.  Sift  into  a 
bowl,  rub  in  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  beat 
one  ^gg-,  mix  it  with  one  cup  of  milk,  and 
stir  it  gradually  into  the  flour  to  make  a 
smooth  dough.  Spread  it  in  a  greased  pan, 
anr'  bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes.  When  done  turn  it  on  a  hot  plate, 
split  open  quickly  and  butter  it.  Spread 
strawberries  over  the  lower  half,  sprinkle 
sugar  over  the  berries,  and  replace  the  upper 
half ;  put  another  layer  of  strawberries  and 
sugar  on  top.  Serve  cold  or  hot,  with 
cream.  Other  berries,  peaches  or  oranges 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  strawberries. 

Apple  Dumplings  (Boiled). — Make  your 
crust  of  a  quart  of  flour  and  a  quarter  pound 
of  suet,  with  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and 
cream-of- tartar  and  half  one  of  soda.  Make 
into  a  tolerably  thick  paste  with  cold  water. 


so 


THE  MODEL  COOft  BOOK 


Roll,  cut  into  squares,  and  put  into  each  a 
pared  and  cored  apple.  The  hole  left  by 
the  core  may  be  filled  with  marmalade,  or 
with  sugar  moistened  with  lemon  juice. 
Close  the  paste  over  your  apple,  tie  the 
dumplings  in  cloths,  and  boil  for  an  hour. 

Apple  Dumplings  (Baked). — Into  one 
quart  flour  drop  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard 
(or  lard  and  butter  mixed)  and  add  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  cream-of- tartar.  Then  put  in  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  wet  quickly  with 
milk  until  stiff  enough  to  roll  into  a  paste 
half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  into  squares,  lay  in 
each  a  pared  and  cored  tart  apple,  and  close 
the  paste  around  it.  Lay  in  a  buttered  bak- 
ing pan  and  bake  till  finely  browned.  Then 
brush  with  a  beaten  &%%,  and  let  glaze  in  the 
oven  for  a  few  minutes.  Kat  hot,  with  rich 
sweet  sauce. 

Jellies,  Jams,  Etc. 

Apple  Jelly. — Slice  nice  clean  apples  in 
preserving  kettle  with  enough  water  to 
almost  cover.  When  stewed  soft,  strain 
through  the  jelly  bag.  Measure  juice  and 
boil  twenty  minutes.  Add  two-thirds  as 
much  sugar  as  juice.  Boil  five  or  ten  min- 
utes longer.  Always  boil  jelly  as  fast  as 
possible. 

Crab  Apple  Jelly. — Wash  fruit  clean, 
put  in  kettle,  cover  over  with  water  and 
cook  thoroughly.  Pour  into  sieve  and 
drain.  Do  not  press  it  through.  For  each 
pint  of  juice  allow  one  pound  sugar.  Boil 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

Blackberry  Jelly.— Wash  berries  and 
put  in  porcelain  kettle  with  enough  water 
to  keep  them  from  sticking.  Cook  a  few 
minutes,  then  drain  through  jelly  bag.  To 
one  pint  of  sugar  add  two  pints  of  juice. 
Boil  until  it  jellies. 

Quince  Jelly. — Wash,  core  and  slice  in 
small  pieces.  Stew  in  plenty  of  water  until 
fruit  is  soft  and  juice  is  rich.  Pour  all  juice 
off;  for  jelly  use  one  pint  of  juice  and  one 
pint  of  sugar.     Boil  until  it  jellies. 

Currant  Jelly.— Wash  the  fruit  in  a 
stone  jar,  squeeze  through  a  flannel  bag, 
then  strain  without  squeezing  to  obtain  a 
clear  liquid.  Boil  briskly  in  porcelain-lined 
kettle  for  twenty  minutes,  then  stir  in  heated 


66 


sugar;  skim,  boil  two  minutes  longer; 
warm  your  tumblers  and  fill  with  the  hot 
liquid  ;  stand  it  away  twenty- four  hours  to 
jelly.  If  not  done  then,  cover  the  tumblers 
with  window  glass  and  let  stand  several 
days  in  the  sun. 

Grape  Jelly. — Take  grapes  just  turning 
ripe,  wash,  put  in  granite  kettle  with  very 
little  if  any  water,  let  simmer  for  one  hour. 
Then  mash,  strain  through  flannel  bag,  let 
come  to  a  boil.  While  this  is  heating  put 
sugar  in  moderateoven.  ("A"  sugar  is  best.) 
For  two  cups  juice  take  one  cup  of  sugar; 
let  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  simmer  ten 
minutes  more.  Strain  again  through  another 
flannel  bag  into  glasses.  Do  not  make 
more  than  three  glasses  at  once. 

Calf's  Foot  Jelly. — Clean  four  calves' 
feet,  put  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water  and  let 
simmer  for  eight  hours  ;  reducing  from  six 
to  two  quarts.  Strain  the  liquid  and  let 
stand  till  next  day.  Next  remove  all  fat 
from  the  surface  and  sediment  from  the  bot- 
tom. Put  in  a  kettle  over  the  fire;  add 
cinnamon  and  sugar,  the  juice  oi  four 
lemons,  tv/o  oranges,  and  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  slightly  beaten.  Mix  well,  boil  hard 
for  twenty  minutes  ;  throw  in  a  gill  of  cold 
water,  let  boil  again,  then  cover  and  stand 
at  side  of  range  for  twenty  minutes.  Next 
pour  into  a  flannel  jelly  bag,  warmed,  and 
let  drip  into  a  bowl.  Do  not  squeeze  or 
touch  the  bag.  Turn  into  molds  and  stand 
in  a  cold  place.  If  you  desire,  a  half  pint  of 
sherry  wine  may  be  added  before  putting  it 
into  the  molds. 

Cider  Apple  Butter. — Boil  one  barrel  of 
new  cider  down  half,  peel  and  core  three 
bushels  of  good  cooking  apples.  When 
cider  has  boiled  to  half  the  quantity  add  the 
apples  and  continue  to  cook. 

Peach  Butter. — Cook  peaches  until  they 
will  mash  easily,  run  through  a  sieve  :  add 
pound  for  pound  of  sugar  and  peaches,  stir 
until  well  cooked. 

Tomato  Butter. — Scald  and  remove  skin 
from  nice  sized  tomatoes,  slice  and  mash  fine, 
to  each  quart  of  tomatoes  add  a  quart  of 
granulated  sugar ;  let  cook  fast,  stir  until 
done. 

Lemon  Butter. — Grate  the  rinds  of 
three   lemons,    and   add    the  juice.       Beat 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


Si 


together  two  cups  sugar  and  three  eggs,  and 
add  one  teaspoonful  butter.  Stir  all  together 
and  boil  to  the  consistency  of  strained  honey. 

Strawberry  Jam. — Take  a  quart  of 
berries,  mash  with  a  potato  masher,  add 
one  pint  granulated  sugar,  and  cook  fast, 
stirring  constantly,  until  of  the  desired  con- 
sistency. 

Raspberry  Jam. — To  five  pounds  red 
berries  add  an  equal  quantity  of  granulated 
sugar.  Mash  the  berries  in  a  kettle,  put  in 
the  sugar,  let  boil  until  it  jellies  upon  a  cold 
plate. 

Pineapple  Preserves. — Pare,  slice  pine- 
apples ;  to  every  pound  of  fruit  add  one 
pound  of  sugar ;  place  in  jars  a  layer  of 
apple,  then  of  sugar  ;  let  stand  over  night  ; 
take  juice  off  of  the  fruit  and  boil  until  it 
thickens ;  pour  in  the  fruit  and  boil  fifteen 
minutes  ;  take  apples  out  of  syrup  to  cool ; 
then  put  in  jar  and  pour  syrup  over  and 
seal. 

Quince  Marmalade. — Stew  as  many 
apples  as  you  wish  to  put  with  your  quinces, 
and  strain  the  juice  as  for  jelly.  Pare  and 
core  the  quinces,  put  in  a  bowl  and  chop  as 
fine  as  desired  ;  put  in  a  vessel  and  cover 
with  the  apple  juice,  add  a  little  water  if 
necessary,  and  cook  until  the  fruit  is  tender. 
Skim  the  fruit  out  carefully,  strain  and 
measure  the  juice  ;  add  sugar  as  for  jelly, 
and  boil  until  almost  jellied.  Drop  in  the 
fruit  and  cook  until  it  begins  to  jelly.  Put 
in  jelly  glasses. 

Preserved  Strawberries. — One  large 
cup  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of  berries.  Add 
enough  water  to  dissolve  sugar,  and  boil  to 
a  thick  syrup.  Add  berries,  and  boil  rap- 
idly fifteen  minutes.  Cook  small  quantity 
at  a  time. 

Preserved  Rhubarb. — Cut  as  for  pies, 
without  peeling  ;  take  the  same  quantity  of 
sugar  as  you  have  fruit,  put  a  small  piece  of 
butter  in  the  bottom  of  a  porcelain  or  gran- 
ite kettle ;  place  the  sugar  and  rhubarb  al- 
ternately in  the  kettle,  place  on  the  back  of 
range  and  cook  slowly,  stirring  occasionally, 
until  sugar  is  dissolved ;  then  cook  more 
rapidly  until  preserved. 

Preserved    Peaches,   Pears,   Plums. — 

Make   fruit  ready  for  preserving  ;  to   each 


67 


pound  of  fruit  use  three- fourths  to  one 
pound  of  sugar  and  one  cup  water,  accord- 
ing to  tartness  of  fruit,  boil  syrup  from  five 
to  ten  minutes,  then  put  in  fruit ;  boil  until 
fruit  looks  clear  ;  fill  jars  and  close. 

Spiced  Currants. — Make  a  syrup  of 
three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  vinegar, 
two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  cinnamon  and 
cloves,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt ;  add  six 
pounds  of  currants,  and  boil  one-half  hour. 

Spiced  Peaches,  Pears,  and  Sweet  Ap- 
ples.— Take  five  pounds  fruit,  three  pounds 
sugar,  cloves  and  cinnamon  to  taste ;  one 
pint  cider  vinegar ;  have  the  syrup  hot, 
cook  until  tender. 

Canned  Strawberries. — Wash  berries 
thoroughly  before  picking  off"  stems  ;  weigh 
them.  To  each  pound  of  berries  allow  one- 
quarter  pound  of  sugar.  Let  them  cook 
fifteen  minutes ;  after  they  come  to  a  boil 
they  are  ready  to  can. 

Canned  Peaches,  Pears,  and  Quinces. 
— Prepare  fruit  for  canning,  place  in  kettle  ; 
to  each  quart  of  fruit  put  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar  ;  put  in  water  to  prevent  burn- 
ing, heat  slowly  to  a  boil,  then  boil  three  or 
four  minutes,  can  and  seal.  Cook  pears  and 
quinces  longer. 

Canned  Cling  Peaches. — Take  one  quart 
of  granulated  sugar,  one  quart  of  water,  let 
boil,  add  three  quarts  of  nice  smooth  peaches, 
peeled ;  let  boil  slowly  twenty  minutes. 
This  is  sufficient  for  two  quart  cans.  Have 
cans  hot  and  dry  ;  fill  and  seal  while  hot. 

Canned  Tomatoes. — Scald  nice  smooth 
tomatoes  and  cook  in  granite  kettle  ;  ' '  sim- 
mer," not  boil,  ten  minutes  ;  salt,  pepper  as 
for  use  ;  then  fill  cans  very  full ;  just  before 
sealing  put  in  a  lump  of  fresh  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut.  Tomatoes  canned  this 
way  will  keep  for  years. 

Canned  Corn  and  Tomatoes. — Peel  and 
slice  tomatoes  (not  too  ripe)  in  the  propor- 
tion of  one-third  corn  to  two-thirds  tomatoes; 
put  on  in  porcelain  or  granite  kettle  ;  let  boil 
fifteen  minutes ;  can  immediately  in  tin  or 
glass.  Some  take  equal  parts  of  corn  and 
tomatoes,  and  prepare  as  above. 

Canned  Rhubarb  in  Cold  Water. — Cut 

rhubarb  in  small  pieces  as  for  pies  without 
peeling ;  fill  Mason  jars  with  fruit ;  pump 


5^ 


^HE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


water  over  it  rapidly  to  force  out  all  air. 
Put  lids  on  tightly  at  once.  Set  in  a  dark, 
cool  place. 

Baked  Apples. — Wipe  and  core  sour 
apples.  Place  them  in  an  earthen  or  agate- 
ware baking  dish — never  use  tin  for  apples 
— and  fill  the  centre  of  each  apple  with 
sugar.  Measure  one  tablespoonful  water 
for  each  apple,  and  pour  it  around  the 
apples,  being  careful  not  to  pour  it  through 
the  centres,  so  as  to  take  away  the  sugar. 
Bake  until  the  apples  are  soft,  from  twenty 
to  forty-five  minutes.  When  done,  place 
on  an  attractive  dish.  Strain  the  juice, 
measure,  and  put  it  into  an  agate  saucepan. 
For  each  half  cup  of  juice  add  one-third  cup 
sugar.  Boil  five  minutes,  and  pour  it  over 
the  apples.     Serve  cold  with  milk  or  cream. 

Baked  Pears. — Remove  the  skin  and 
leave  the  pears  whole,  or  cut  them  into 
quarters  and  take  out  the  cores.  Put  into  a 
deep  earthen  dish.  To  each  pint  of  fruit 
add  quarter  cup  brown  sugar,  quarter  cup 
water.  Cover,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  soft.  This  dish  is  good  if  baked  one 
hour,  but  becomes  richer  if  cooked  three  or 
four  hours.  Apples,  peaches  and  quinces 
may  be  baked  in  the  same  way. 

Apple  Sauce. — Quarter,  pare  and  core 
sour  apples.  Put  them  into  an  agate  sauce- 
pan, with  just  enough  water  to  keep  them 
from  burning,  and  cook  until  soft.  Stir  in 
sugar,  allowing  half  cup  sugar  for  six  me- 
dium-sized apples,  and  boil  five  minutes. 
Strain  through  a  wire  strainer.  Cool  and 
serve. 

Stewed  Apricots. — Wash  one  pound 
dried  apricots  carefully,  taking  each  piece 
in  the  fingers.  Put  them  into  a  pan  with 
three  cups  water,  and  soak  two  hours  or  over 
night.  Then  cover  them  and  stand  them 
over  a  moderate  fire.  L,et  them  come  to  a 
boil,  and  cook  gently  ten  minutes.  Add 
half  cup  sugar  and  cook  five  minutes  longer. 

Stewed  Prunes.  —  Prepare  and  cook 
them  in  the  same  manner  as  apricots.  One 
pound  of  prunes  will  require  a  quarter  cup  of 
sugar.  Just  before  removing  from  the  stove, 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice.  The 
prunes  should  be  soft,  but  not  broken. 

Stewed  Cranberries. — Take  four  cups 
cranbeiTies.    Pick  them  carefully.    Put  them 


into  a  pan  with  a  cup  of  water,  and  cover 
them  closely.  Stand  them  over  a  moderate 
fire,  let  them  come  to  a  boil,  and  cook 
gently  eight  minutes.  Add  two  cups  of 
sugar,  and  cook  two  minutes  longer. 
When  cold  the  skins  will  be  tender  and  the 
juice  will  form  a  delicate  jelly. 

Cranberry  Jelly. — Cook  the  fruit  as  di- 
rected in  the  above  recipe  and  press  it 
through  a  strainer  into  a  mold  or  glass 
dish. 

Cranberry  Sauce. — Put  a  quart  of  ripe 
cranberries  into  a  saucepan  with  a  teacupful 
of  water.  Stew  slowly,  stirring  often  ;  cook 
ten  minutes.  Take  from  fire  and  sweeten 
well  with  white  sugar.  Put  into  a  mold. 
Or  strain  the  pulp  through  a  sieve  into  a 
mold  wet  with  cold  water,  and  when  firm 
turn  into  a  glass  dish.  Eat  with  roast  tur- 
key or  game. 

Steamed  Rhubarb. — Wash  one  cup  of 
rhubarb  and  cut  it  into  inch  pieces  without 
removing  the  skin,  as  this  gives  a  pretty 
pink  color  to  the  juice.  Put  it  in  an  agate 
double  boiler  without  water,  sprinkle  one- 
third  cup  of  sugar  over  it  and  steam  half 
hour,  or  until  soft.  Do  not  stir  it,  as  it 
breaks  the  pieces. 

Ices  and  Ice  Cream. 

General  Rules. — Ice  (or  snow)  and  salt 
are  necessary  for  freezing  cream,  fruit,  etc. 
Salt  melts  the  ice,  and  in  melting  it  absorbs 
heat  from  the  cream,  thus  causingthe  cream 
to  freeze.  For  each  cup  of  rock  salt  used, 
allow  three  cups  of  broken  ice.  Pound  ice 
in  a  bag  or  piece  of  carpet. 

To  pack  the  freezer :  Put  three  cups 
pounded  ice  around  the  can,  then  sprinkle 
one  cup  of  rock  salt,  and  pack  in  alternate 
layers  of  ice  and  salt  until  within  an  inch 
of  the  top  of  the  can .  Let  it  stand  from  ten 
to  twenty  minutes  to  chill,  then  turn  or  beat 
until  the  cream  is  frozen.  Pack  away  with 
ice  and  salt  around  and  over  the  can. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream.  —  One  quart  of 
cream,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  cups  sugar, 
one  tablespoonful  vanilla,  white  of  one  ^%%, 
beaten  ;  strain  cream.  For  peach  ice  cream 
leave  out  vanilla  and  add  one  quart  of 
peaches,  mashed  fine,  after  cream  is  partly 
frozen. 


68 


Steamed  Plum  Pudding 


PRACTICAL  DIRECTIONS 
Mix  thoroughly  together  half-a-pound  of  fine  chopped  suet,  half-a-pound  of  bread 
crumbs,  two  ounces  (half  a  cup)  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  '^innamon  and  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful,  each,  of  mace  and  clove,  three  fourths  a  cup  of  sugar,  three-fourths  a  pound  of 
mixed  fruit, — seeded  raisins,  orange  peel,  citron  of  figs,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  b^p' 
four  eggs,  add  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  stir  into  the  dry  ingredients.  If  the 
mixture  is  not  moist  enough,  add  more  milk.  The  mixture  should  be  much  too  soft  to 
handle,  but  of  such  consistence  that  it  can  be  taken  up  in  heaped  spoonfuls.  Steam  in  a 
buttered  mold  about  five  hours.  As  the  water  evaporates,  replenish  with  boiling  water. 
Serve  hot  with  a  hard  or  a  liquid  pudding  sauce. 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


53 


Put  the  mixture  into  a  can  with  a  tight 
cover  and  stand  it  in  a  pail.  Pack  the  ice 
and  salt  around  it,  beat  the  cream,  and  turn 
the  can  back  and  forth,  opening  it  once  in 
five  minutes  to  scrape  the  cream  from  the 
sides  of  the  can  and  stir  thoroughly.  It 
should  freeze  in  twenty  minutes. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream. — One  quart 
cream,  one  pound  sugar,  one  and  a  half 
quarts  strawberries ;  put  one  teacup  new 
milk  and  half  the  sugar  on  to  boil  in  a  dou- 
ble boiler ;  when  sugar  is  dissolved  set 
aside  to  cool ;  rub  the  berries  through  a 
colander,  and  then  add  the  remaining  half 
of  the  sugar  to  them ;  pour  the  sweetened 
milk  and  cream  into  the  freezer  and  freeze  ; 
when  nearly  done  add  the  berries  and  beat 
thoroughly. 

Banana  Ice  Cream. — Remove  the  peel 
from  eight  ripe  bananas,  mash  them  into  a 
pulp,  then  beat  them  thoroughly  with  one 
quart  of  cream.  Sweeten  and  freeze  the 
same  as  ordinary  cream.  The  bananas  may 
be  grated  or  chopped  fine. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. — Melt  one  and 
one-half  squares  Baker's  Chocolate  and  di- 
lute with  hot  water  to  pour  easily,  add  one 
quart  thin  cream  ;  then  add  one  cup  sugar, 
a  sprinkle  of  salt,  and  one  tablespoonful 
vanilla,  and  freeze. 

Orange  and  Lemon  Water  Ice. — Juice 
of  four  lemons,  juice  of  four  oranges,  four 
cups  sugar,  four  cups  water,  whites  of  four 
eggs,  well  beaten,  add  last,  then  freeze  very 
slowly. 

Lemon  Water  Ice. — To  the  juice  of  six 
large  lemons  add  one  quart  water  and  one 
quart  sugar.  Make  a  syrup  of  part  of  the 
water  and  sugar,  then  add  lemon  juice  and 
rest  of  water.  When  half  frozen  add  whites 
of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Fruit  Ices. — Take  three  each  of  oranges, 
lemons  and  bananas,  and  one  pint  of  straw- 
berries or  raspberries.  Put  the  fruit  into  a 
coarse  strainer  and  rub  it  through  into  a 
large  bowl.  Pour  three  cups  of  cold  water 
through  the  strainer,  add  three  cups  of 
sugar.     Stir  and  freeze. 

Lemon  Sherbet. — Juice  of  four  lemons, 
strained,  one  quart  water,  one  and  a  half 
pints    granulated     sugar,    one-fourth    box 

2J  69 


Pink  Plymouth  Rock  gelatine,  soaked  in 
cold  water  half  an  hour  ;  place  in  vessel  in 
warm  water  to  melt ;  one  teaspoonful  va- 
nilla, one  pinch  soda ;  mix  all  together, 
then  put  in  freezer  and  when  nearly  done  add 
the  well-beaten  white  of  one  ^%z^  then  freeze 
until  solid.     Suflficient  for  fourteen  persons. 

Pineapple  Sherbet. — Two  large  pine- 
apples or  one  quart  can,  one  and  one- 
fourth  pounds  sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons, 
one  quart  of  water.  Pare  the  pineapples, 
cut  them,  and  remove  the  cores,  or  the  pine- 
apple may  be  grated  around  them  ;  boil  the 
sugar  and  water  together  for  five  minutes, 
take  it  from  the  fire,  add  the  grated  pine- 
apple and  the  juice  of  the  lemons;  strain 
through  a  cloth,  pressing  hard  to  get  all  the 
juice.  Freeze,  and  when  almost  done  add  the 
meringue,  which  is  made  as  follows :  Beat 
the  white  of  one  ^g^  until  frothy,  then  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar  and  beat 
until  white  and  stiff. 

Milk  Sherbet.— Put  one  quart  of  milk 
into  the  can  and  let  it  freeze  five  minutes. 
Mix  together  two  cups  of  sugar  and  the 
juice  of  three  lemons  ;  stir  into  the  milk, 
and  freeze. 

Pickles  and  Salads. 

Gherkin  Pickles. — Use  small  cucum- 
bers or  gherkins.  Pack  in  a  stone  jar  in 
layers,  salting  each  layer  thickly.  Cover 
the  top  layer  deep  with  salt,  pour  cold 
water  to  cover  all,  and  weight  with  a  board 
and  stone.  lyCave  in  the  brine  a  week  to  a 
month,  stirring  up  daily.  When  ready  to 
put  up,  throw  off  the  brine  and  pick  out  any 
softened  cucumbers.  Soak  for  a  day  in 
fresh  water.  Then  change  the  water  and 
leave  another  day.  Put  them  now  in  a  ket- 
tle, lined  with  vine  leaves,  throwing  in  a 
little  powdered  alum  ;  fill  with  water,  cover 
with  vine  leaves,  and  steam  five  or  six  hours. 
When  the  pickles  are  green  take  out  the 
leaves,  and  throw  the  pickles  into  ice-cold 
water. 

To  one  gallon  of  vinegar  add  a  cup  of 
sugar,  three  dozen  each  whole  black  peppers 
and  cloves,  half  as  much  allspice  and  a 
dozen  blades  of  mace.  Boil  five  minutes. 
Put  the  cucumbers  into  a  stone  jar,  and 
pour  over  them  the  scalding  hot  vinegar. 


54 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


Scald  the  vinegar  several  times,  at  intervals 
of  two  to  five  days,  and  return.  Finally 
cover  the  jar  and  put  in  a  cool  dry  place. 
The  pickles  will  be  ready  for  use  in  two 
months.  They  should  be  examined  at  in- 
tervals of  a  few  weeks. 

Cucumber  Pickles. — Wash  cucumbers 
oarefully  and  put  in  weak  salt  water  over 
night.  In  the  morning  drain  them  and  put 
on  stove  in  weak  vinegar,  half  vinegar  and 
half  water,  to  which  has  been  added  alum,  a 
piece  the  size  of  a  small  hickorynut  to  a 
gallon.  lyet  them  heat  slowly  until  scald- 
ing hot.  Have  ready  in  another  kettle 
good  cider  vinegar  to  which  has  been  added 
sugar,  in  the  proportion  of  one  teacup  sugar 
to  one  quart  vinegar.  Have  cans  hot  and 
pack  cucumbers  in  closely,  scattering  mixed 
spices  through  them  as  desired.  When  can 
is  full  pour  over  the  sweetened  vinegar, 
boiling  hot,  and  seal. 

Pickled  Beets.-— Boil  until  quite  soft ; 
when  cool  cut  lengthwise  to  size  of  small 
cucumbers,  boil  equal  parts  vinegar  and 
sugar  with  half  a  tablespoonful  ground 
cloves,  tied  in  a  cloth,  to  each  gallon  ;  pour 
boiling  hot  over  the  beets. 

Pickled  Onions. — Peel  the  onions,  cook 
in  salt  water  till  they  begin  to  get  tender. 
Take  out  of  water  and  drain,  pack  in  cans, 
take  enough  hot  vinegar  to  cover  them,  add 
sugar  and  spices  to  taste. 

Pickled  Cauliflower. — Break  three  heads 
in  small  clusters,  lay  in  salted  water  three 
minutes,  then  drain,  use  small  onions  if 
liked.  Boil  one  quart  cider  vinegar,  and  one 
cup  sugar  together.  Mix  mustard,  celery 
seeds  or  spices  to  suit  taste.  Put  in  jars, 
pour  over  vinegar  while  hot,  seal. 

Pickled  Cabbage, — Chop  cabbage  fine, 
take  enough  for  one-half  gallon  can,  put  in 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  let  stand  over  night, 
drain  and  add  two  tablespooonfuls  of  mus- 
tard seed,  one  pod  of  red  pepper  and  horse- 
radish. Mix  well,  then  put  in  can,  press 
tightly  ;  then  pour  over  cabbage  enough 
vinegar  to  cover,  seal  in  glass  self-sealers 

Chow  Chow. — Take  six  cucumbers  just 
before  they  ripen,  peel  and  cut  in  strips  and 
remove  the  seed,  four  white  onions,  six 
good  sized  heads  of  cabbage,  chop  all  fine  ; 


let  them  stand  in  salt  water  over  night. 
Then  pour  off  the  water,  and  add  vinegar 
and  spices  to  suit  taste. 

Tomato  Pickles. — Slice  thin  one  gallon 
green  tomatoes,  salt  and  let  stand  over 
night ;  next  morning  drain,  chop  one  gallon 
cabbage,  grate  one  quart  horseradish.  Put 
tomatoes  on  in  vinegar,  boil  until  tender, 
pour  over  cabbage,  let  stand  till  cool,  and 
drain.  Mix  horseradish,  celery,  mustard 
seed  and  mixed  spices  ;  then  boil  vinegar 
and  sugar  and  pour  over  them. 

Piccalilli. — One  peck  green  tomatoes, 
one  dozen  onions,  six  red  peppers,  one-half 
ounce  ginger,  one-quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
mace,  one  tablespoonful  black  pepper,  one 
box  of  mustard,  five  cents'  worth  of  celery 
seed,  one  pound  of  brown  sugar ;  slice  onions, 
tomatoes,  and  peppers,  put  in  a  jar  with  salt, 
mix  well,  let  stand  twenty-four  hours  ;  drain 
off  and  boil  in  vinegar  (after  adding  the 
spices)  until  clear. 

Mixed  Pickles. — One-fourth  peck  green 
tomatoes,  twelve  large  pickles,  three  dozen 
small  pickles,  eight  large  onions,  two  heads 
cauliflower,  one  pint  small  green  beans,  one 
pint  salt.  Place  in  jar,  let  stand  over  night, 
rinse  in  cold  water.  Take  equal  parts  vine- 
gar and  water,  put  in  the  ingredients,  boil 
until  tender  (about  ten  minutes),  drain,  put 
three  quarts  vinegar,  one  pound  brown  sugar, 
one-half  pound  mustard  seed,  five  cents' 
worth  turmeric,  one-fourth  pound  ground 
mustard,  four  tablespoonfuls  black  pepper, 
one  ounce  celery  seed.  lyCt  come  to  a  boil, 
put  in  jar  and  seal. 

Tomato  Sweet  Pickles. — Slice  tomatoes, 
salt  and  let  stand  over  night ;  then  drain 
well  and  place  in  porcelain  kettle  and  cover 
with  vinegar  ;  let  come  to  boil,  then  lift  out 
the  slices  with  a  fork  and  place  in  cans  pre- 
viously heated .  Have  a  syrup  ready.  Two 
pints  sugar,  one  of  vinegar,  with  spices  to 
taste ;  let  boil  till  thick  and  pour  over 
tomatoes,  then  seal. 

Ripe  Tomato  Pickles.  — For  seven  pounds 
of  tomatoes,  make  a  syrup  of  one  quart  of 
vinegar  and  four  pounds  of  sugar.  Scald, 
skin  and  drain  the  tomatoes.  Boil  them  in 
the  syrup,  adding  a  little  stick  cinnamon. 
Must  boil  a  long  time,  or  until  quite  thick, 
or  they  will  not  keep  unless  in  air-tight  cans. 


70 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


55 


Pickled  Pears. — One  quart  of  vinegar, 
two  quarts  sugar  ;  boil  together  ;  pour  over 
pears  ;  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing pour  hot  boiling  syrup  on  pears;  let 
cook  until  tender  ;  put  fruit  in  cans  ;  add  one- 
half  ounce  of  cloves,  one  ounce  stick  cinna- 
mon ;  boil  in  syrup  ttntil  thick.  For  one 
gallon  of  pears. 

Pickled  Peaches. — For  six  pounds  of 
fruit  use  three  of  sugar,  about  three  dozen 
cloves,  and  a  pint  of  vinegar.  Put  one  or 
two  cloves  into  each  peach.  Have  the  syrup 
hot ;  cook  until  tender. 

Pickled  Cherries. — To  every  quart  of 
cherries  (fresh  tart  ones)  add  a  cupful  of 
vinegar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
with  a  dozen  cloves  and  six  blades  of  mace. 
Boil  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  five  min- 
utes, and  after  it  has  cooled  strain  out  the 
spices,  and  pour  the  vinegar  over  the.  cher- 
ries, which  have  been  placed  in  jars  till 
three-quarters  full.     Cork  or  cover  tight. 

Higdin  Pickle. — Take  one  peck  green 
tomatoes  and  a  dozen  medium-sized  onions. 
Cut  and  slice  these,  and  salt  and  mix  to- 
gether. L,et  them  stand  over  night,  then 
drain  them  well,  and  add  one  ounce  each  of 
cloves,  allspice  and  pepper,  and  a  quarter 
pound  of  mustard  seed,  also  a  pound  of 
sugar  and  horseradish  to  taste.  Place  the 
mixture  in  an  earthen  vessel,  cover  with 
vinegar,  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire  until 
tender. 

Pickled  Oysters. — Put  150  oysters  into 
a  suitable  vessel,  and  salt  to  taste  ;  then 
put  over  a  slow  fire,  bringing  the  liquid  to 
a  simmer,  not  a  boil.  Take  out  the  oysters 
and  put  into  a  stone  pot.  To  the  liquid  in 
the  saucepan  add  a  pint  of  good  vinegar,  a 
few  heads  of  mace,  three  dozen  each  of 
whole  cloves  and  pepper,  and  let  come  to  a 
boil.  When  the  oysters  are  cold. pour  the 
liquid  over  them. 

Tomato  Catsup. — Boil  for  half  an  hour 
three  gallons  of  good  ripe  tomatoes.  Strain 
through  a  sieve.  Then  put  on  and  boil 
down  to  two  gallons.  While  boiling  add  , 
two  ounces  each  of  whole  cloves,  allspice 
and  cinnamon,  and  a  quarter  pound  of  black 
pepper.  When  done  take  off,  cool,  add  one- 
quarter  pound  mustard  and  half  a  pound  of 

71 


sugar.  Stir  well,  and  put  in  a  quart  of  best 
cider  vinegar  for  each  gallon.  Bottle  and 
seal  up  for  winter  use. 

Apple  Salad. — Take  one-third  more  ap- 
ples than  celery  (chopped),  put  in  as  many 
English  walnuts  or  hickorynuts  as  you  like. 
Dressing;  Yolks  of  three  eggs,  beaten,  one 
teaspoonful  mustard,  two  teaspoon fuls  of 
salt,  one-fourth  saltspoonful  of  cayenne, 
two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one  tablespoonful 
butter,  one  cup  cream,  one-half  cup  of  hot 
vinegar.  Whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  stiff; 
cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  thickens  like 
soft  custard. 

Cabbage  Salad. — Two  quarts  of  chopped 
cabbage,  two  level  tablespoonfuls  white 
sugar,  one  of  black  pepper,  one  of  mustard. 
Rub  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  until 
smooth.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  butter, 
slightly  warmed.  Mix  with  cabbage  and 
add  one  teacup  good  vinegar.  Serve  with 
whites  of  eggs,  cut  in  rings  and  placed  on 
salad.     Salt  to  taste. 

Cold  Slaw  with  Cream  Dressing. — 
Slice  cabbage  fine,  season  with  salt.  Make 
a  dressing  of  one-half  cup  whipped  cream, 
two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  four  of  vinegar 
and  pour  over  cabbage. 

Cold  Slaw. — Chop  cabbage  fine,  then 
put  in  a  crock,  add  sugar,  sale  and  pepper 
to  taste ;  mash  all  together  with  a  potato 
masher  until  juicy;  add  either  sweet  or 
sour  cream  to  make  real  moist,  and  vinegar 
to  suit  taste. 

Cooked  Slaw. — O  ne  small  head  of  cab- 
bage cut  fine  ;  put  one  tablespoonful  butter 
in  a  skillet ;  when  melted,  stir  in  the  cab- 
bage. Mix  the  yolk  of  one  ^^g,  one-third 
cup  vinegar,  a  little  mustard,  sugar  and 
salt,  pour  on  the  cabbage  and  heat,  then 
serve. 

Lettuce  with  Cream  Dressing. — Care- 
fully look  over  and  wash  lettuce,  and  tear 
in  pieces.  To  two  tablespoonfuls  fresh 
meat  fryings  add  one  tablespoonful  flour, 
while  hot  add  one  cup  sour  cream,  salt  and 
pepper,  stir  rapidly  until  it  thickens,  then 
pour  over  lettuce  and  stir  very  little,  dish 
up  and  lay  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs  over 
the  top.  Sugar  or  vinegar  may  be  added  at 
the  table. 


56 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


Nut  Salad. — Mix  one  cup  chopped 
English  walnut  meats,  with  two  cups  celery 
or  shredded  lettuce  leaves  ;  arrange  on  let- 
tuce, and  serve  with  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

Potato  Salad. — Slice  thin,  eight  cold 
boiled  potatoes,  and  cover  with  a  dressing 
made  as  follows  :  Yolk  of  one  hard-boiled 
^%%,  mashed  fine,  one  teaspoonful  of  mixed 
mustard,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  but- 
ter, four  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  salt  and 
pepper.  Finely  chopped  onion  may  be 
added. 

Fruit  Salad — To  one  package  Ply- 
mouth Rock  gelatine,  add  a  pint  of  cold 
water,  the  juice  of  four  lemons,  the  grated 
rind  of  one.  Let  stand  one  hour.  Add  one 
pint  boiling  water,  two  cups  sugar.  Let 
boil  and  strain  through  a  cloth  into  a  mold. 
When  about  to  congeal  stir  in  fruit.  One 
pound  white  grapes,  seeded,  one- half  pound 
candied  pineapple,  one-half  pound  candied 
cherries,  cut  in  pieces.  Let  stand  on  ice  to 
cool  and  harden,  then  serve. 

Tongue  Salad. — Boil,  skin  and  trim  a 
tongue,  cut  in  dice  and  add  the  whites  of  six 
hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  similar  pieces.  Cut 
fine  the  white  stalks  of  three  heads  of  celery 
and  mix  with  tongue  and  eggs.  Make  a 
dressing  as  follows :  Beat  together  four 
eggs,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  five  of 
melted  butter,  one  of  prepared  mustard,  one 
of  sugar  and  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  cream. 
Put  over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook 
until  as  thick  as  boiled  custard.  Set  aside 
to  cool ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  thin 
with  lemon  juice,  mix  with  the  tongue  and 
other  ingredients,  and  serve. 

Cream  5alad  Dressing. — Mix  one-half 
each,  salt  and  mustard,  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  add  one  beaten  &%Zi  two 
and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  butter,  and 
three- fourths  cup  sweet  cream,  add  slowly 
one- fourth  cup  vinegar  ;  cook  until  it  thick- 
ens, then  strain  and  cool. 

riayonnaise  Sauce — Mix  in  a  two-quart 
bowl  one  even  teaspoonful  ground  mustard, 
one  of  salt,  and  one  and  a  half  of  vinegar, 
beat  in  the  yolk  of  a  raw  ^z^.  Then  add 
very  gradually  a  half  pint  of  pure  olive  oil. 
Beating  briskly  all  the  time.  The  mixture 
will   become  a   very  thick  batter.     Flavor 


with  vinegar  or  fresh  lemon  juice.  If  cov- 
ered closely  it  will  keep  for  weeks.  If  the 
dressing  curdles .  take  another  yoke  of  egg 
and  add  to  it  the  curdled  mixture  slowly, 
stirring  constantly. 

Salad  Dressing. — Yolks  of  three  eggs, 
one  tablespoonfnl  sugar,  a  lump  of  buttei 
size  of  a  small  ^%z>  ^  pinch  each  of  salt, 
and  cayenne  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  pre- 
pared mustard.  Stir  all  together,  add  one- 
half  pint  of  vinegar,  set  over  fire  and  stii 
constantly  until  it  becomes  about  like 
custard.  This  will  keep  several  days  in  a 
cool  place.  Very  nice  served  with  nice 
ripe  tomatoes.  Peel  and  cut  out  a  little  of 
the  top  with  a  teaspoon  ;  serve  it  on  a  let- 
tuce leaf  with  the  salad  dressing. 

Salad  Dressing. — Yolks  of  three  eggs, 
one  teaspoonful  mustard,  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  a  sprinkle  of  cayenne,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter,  one  cup  milk,  or  cream.  Stii 
the  above  together.  When  well  beaten 
pour  over  one-half  cup  of  hot  vinegar. 
Have  ready  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten 
stifi".  Cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  all  the 
time  it  is  cooking,  using  an  &%%  beater  to 
stir  with.  Cook  until  cream  thickens,  then 
bottle.  If  one  bottle  of  good  salad  dressing 
is  mixed  with  the  above  recipe,  it  is  im- 
proved. 

Potato  Salad. — Boil  four  or  six  pota- 
toes, cut  in  thin  slices,  pour  the  hot  dressing 
over  and  let  it  stand  until  cold.  Two  table- 
spoons chopped  celery  may  be  mixed  with 
the  potatoes,  and  one  teaspoon  onion  juice 
may  be  stirred  into  the  dressing  after  it  is 
cooked.  Serve  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
meat  salads.  Sliced  boiled  beets  are  some 
times  added. 

Tomato  Salad. — Pour  boiling  water  over 
four  or  six  tomatoes,  and  let  it  stand  a 
moment.  Pour  ofi",  and  add  cold  water, 
slip  ofi"  the  skins,  slice,  and  set  away  to  be- 
come cold.  Serve  with  the  cold  dressing. 
If  desired,  the  slices  of  tomatoes  may  be 
served  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Tomato  Catsup. — Take  a  peck  of  ripe 
tomatoes,  cut  each,  and  boil  in  a  porcelain 
kettle  until  the  juice  is  extracted  a«d  the 
pulp  dissolved.  Press  through  a  colander, 
then  through  a  hair  sieve.  Return  to  kettle ; 


72 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


5? 


season  with  an  ounce  each  salt  and  mace,  a 
tablespoonful  each  black  and  cayenne 
pepper,  powdered  cloves,  and  celery  seed 
(in  a  thin  bag),  and  same  of  ground  mus- 
tard. Boil  five  hours,  stirring  frequently 
and  in  the  last  hour  constantly.  L,et 
stand  twelve  hours  in  a  stone  jar  in 
cellar.  Add  a  pint  of  strong  vinegar  ;  take 
out  the  bag  of  celery  seed,  and  bottle  for 
use.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  Of  the 
numerous  catsups,  this  is  the  most  useful 
for  ordinary  purposes. 

Cold  Slaw. — Take  a  fresh,  crisp  cab- 
bage, and  pull  off  the  loose  and  torn  leaves. 
Cut  it  into  several  pieces,  and  shave  each 
piece  into  very  thin  strips.  Strain  the  salad 
dressing,  while  hot,  over  the  cabbage,  mix 
it  well,  spread  it  out,  and  set  it  away  to 
cool.  When  ready  to  serve,  arrange  in  a 
neat  mound  in  the  centre  of  a  clean  dish.  If 
the  cabbage  is  wilted,  soak  it  for  an  hour  or 
more  in  cold,  salted  water. 

Lettuce  Salad. — Pick  over  the  leaves 
carefully  and  see  that  they  are  whole,  clean 
and  free  from  insects.  Wash  them  in  cold 
water,  and  shake  the  leaves  gently  in  a  cloth 
to  dry  them.  Arrange  on  a  fiat  dish  with 
the  smaller  leaves  inside  the  larger,  and 
serve,  with  the  cold  salad  dressing  on  the 
table. 

Boil  hard  one-half  dozen  eggs.  When 
cold  chop  fine  with  stalks  and  tender  leaves 
of  a  root  of  celery,  and  a  handful  of  green 
parsley.  Pour  over  the  mixture  a  sauce 
made  by  rubbing  together  a  dessertspoonful 
of  mustard  with,  the  same  quantity  of  salt 
and  two  spoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  into 
which  beat  well,  five  spoonfuls  of  olive  oil 
and  five  of  vinegar. 

Candies  and  Confections. 

Butter  Scotch. — One  cup  of  light  brown 
sugar,  one-half  cup  of  hot  water,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  vin- 
egar ;  boil  about  twenty  minutes,  testing  in 
cold  water ;  when  it  begins  to  thicken  it 
can  be  flavored  by  adding  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  lemon  or  vanilla  if  desired.  Pour  on 
buttered  plates  and  mark  into  squares  as  it 
cools. 

Chocolate  Caramels. — One  and  a  half 
pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  cream, 


73 


one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  cake  oj 
Baker's  chocolate.  Mix  ail  together  and 
let  cook,  stirring  frequently  until  done. 
Drop  a  little  in  water  ;  if  done  it  hardens  at 
once.  Just  before  pouring  in  pan  flavor 
with  vanilla  or  lemon.  Pour  in  a  buttered 
dish,  and  before  it  gets  perfectly  cold  cut  in 
squares  by  running  a  knife  across  the  dish. 
It  will  break  when  cold. 

Vanilla  Caramels. — Two  cups  of  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  water,  one-fourth  cup  of 
vinegar;  boil  until  it  will  harden  when 
dropped  in  water,  then  add  one-half  cup  of 
cream  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla.  Stir 
to  prevent  scorching.  When  it  will  harden 
if  dropped  in  water,  pour  into  a  greased 
pan  so  it  will  be  a  half  inch  thick.  When 
cool  enough,  cut  in  squares  and  wrap  in 
paraffine  paper. 

Soft  Caramels. — Make  either  with  or 
without  nuts.  Whites  of  two  eggs  beaten 
stiff",  half  cup  of  corn  starch,  eight  table- 
spoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar.  Stir  untJ3 
stiff  enough  to  manipulate  with  the  hands 
then  work  just  with  the  fingers. 

Cocoanut  Caramels.  —  One  cocoanut 
grated  fine  ;  take  the  milk  of  the  cocoanut 
and  add  sufficient  water  to  make  one  pint, 
to  this  add  three  pounds  of  white  sugar. 
When  it  boils  up  well,  add  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  cream  of  tartar  dissolved  in  a  little 
water  ;  boil  until  it  will  make  a  soft  ball 
when  dropped  in  water,  then  add  the  grated 
cocoanut;  remove  from  the  fire  and  beat 
until  it  begins  to  get  white — if  beaten  too 
long  it  will  crumble ;  pour  into  shallow 
pans  and  when  partly  cold  cut  in  squares. 

Ice  Cream  Candy. — Two  cups  granu- 
lated sugar,  a  scant  half  cup  water,  a  lump 
of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  one  quarter 
teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  Boil  until  it  cracks  when  dropped 
into  water.  Do  not  stir.  Pour  in  buttered 
tins,  and  when  cool  pull  until  white. 

Maple  Creams. — One  cup  maple  sugar, 
one-half  cup  cream  or  milk,  lump  of  butter; 
boil  until  it  brittles  in  cold  water.  Let 
stand  until  cool,  then  beat  to  a  cream.  Put 
in  buttered  tins  and  cut  in  squares. 

English  Kisses. — Whites  of  two  ^^gi 
beaten  dry  and  stiff,  one-half  pint  granulated 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful   vanilla,  mix  thor- 


38 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


ougbly  ;  drop  in  drops  on  greased  manilla 
paper  and  lay  half  kernels  of  English  wal- 
nuts on  the  top.     Bake  a  light  brown. 

Molasses  Candy. — One  quart  good  mo- 
lasses, one-half  cup  vinegar,  one  cup  sugar, 
butter  size  of  an  ^zz-i  one  teaspoonful  bak- 
ing soda.  Boil  molasses,  sugar  and  vinegar 
until  it  hardens  when  dropped  in  cold 
water,  then  add  butter,  and  the  soda  dis- 
solved in  hot  water  ;  flavor  to  taste.  Pour 
in  buttered  dishes  and  pull  when  cold. 

Taffy. —  Put  into  a  pan  half  cup  of 
butter,  two  cups  brown  sugar,  and  the  juice 
of  a  lemon  or  four  tablespoonfuls  vinegar  ; 
stand  it  over  a  moderate  fire.  Stir  until  it 
begins  to  bubble,  then  draw  it  to  one  side  of 
the  stove  and  let  it  boil  slowly.  Test  occa- 
sionally by  dropping  a  little  into  cold  water. 
If  it  hardens  at  once,  it  is  done.  Stir  in 
shelled  peanuts  or  walnuts  and  pour  into 
buttered  pans. 

Chocolate  Creams. — Beat  the  white  of 
one  ^"gz  and  add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls 
cold  water  and  half  teaSpoonful  vanilla. 
Stir  in  gradually  enough  confectioner's  or 
XXX  sugar  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll 
into  balls  the  size  of  marbles,  and  let  dry 
one  hour.  Melt  quarter  pound  chocolate  in 
a  bowl  and  put  the  balls  into  it  in  succes- 
sion. Lift  out  each  ball  with  a  fork  and 
place  it  on  greased  paper  to  harden. 

Walnut  Creams. — Open  English  wal- 
nuts carefully,  that  the  half-kernels  may  not 
be  broken.  Press  the  two  halves  into  op- 
posite sides  of  a  sugar-ball,  as  above  de- 
scribed. 

Date  Cream s.^-Remove  the  seeds  from 
dates.  Roll  sugar-balls  into  cylinders  and 
press  them  into  the  spaces  from  which  the 
date  seeds  were  taken. 

Cherry  Creams. — Buy  quarter  pound 
red  candied  cherries.  Cut  each  cherry  partly 
open,  and  press  into  the  opening  a  small 
ball  of  the  sugar  mixture. 

Lemon  or  Orange  Creams. — Take  one 
teaspoonful  of  vthite  of  ^gg  and  mix  with 
it  one  tablespoonful  lemon  or  orange-juice. 
Add  enough  sugar  to  make  a  dough,  roll  it 
into  balls  and  let  it  harden. 

Fruit  Creams. — Take  one  tablespoonful 
ftultana  raisins,    two   figs,  four  dates,  and 


one  tablespoonful  nut  kernels.  Chop  the 
fruit  very  fine  and  stir  all  together.  Take  a 
portion  of  the  sugar  dough,  above  described, 
and  mix  with  it  the  chopped  fruit.  Roll 
the  mixture  into  balls,  or  pat  it  flat  and  cut 
into  small  squares. 

Home=made  Candy. — Two  pounds  white 
sugar,  one  pint  water ;  boil  until  it  cracks 
when  dropped  in  cold  water;  add  three 
tablespoonfuls  vinegar  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  soda  ;  flavor  to  taste. 

Peanut  Candy. — Two  cups  granulated 
sugar,  one  cup  chopped  peanuts,  no  water. 
Put  sugar  over  a  slow  fire  ;  it  melts  very 
slowly.  After  it  has  melted  a  little  it  turns 
into  very  hard  lumps,  then  melts  again. 
When  it  is  free  from  lumps  remove  from 
fire,  pour  it  over  the  peanuts,  stirring  with 
a  spoon  to  prevent  them  collecting  at  the 
bottom  of  the  pan.  When  cool  mark  into 
squares. 

Peppermint  Drops.  —  One-half  cup 
sugar,  one  half  cup  water,  one  teaspoonful 
vinegar.  Boil  until  done,  then  beat  fast 
with  a  fork.  Before  it  gets  cold  add  five 
drops  peppermint  oil,  beat  thoroughly,  let 
fall  in  drops  on  buttered  paper. 

Sugar  Candy. — Six  cups  white  sugar, 
one  cup  vinegar,  one  cup  water,  one  table- 
spoonful butter  put  in  at  the  last  with  one 
teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
Boil  without  stirring  one-half  hour.  Flavor 
to  suit  taste. 

Walnut  Macaroons.—  One  cup  walnut 
meats  chopped  fine,  one  cup  sugar,  a  little 
salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  flour.  Cook  in  a 
buttered  tin  in  a  slack  oven.  When  done 
cut  in  small  squares  and  lift  from  tin  while 
warm. 

Pop=Corn  Balls. — Pop  the  corn  and  re- 
ject all  the  h'ard  kernels ;  place  in  a  large 
pan.  To  eight  quarts  of  corn  take  one  pint 
sugar,  scant  one-half  teaspoonful  cream  of 
tartar,  and  a  little  water.     Boil  all  together 


until  it  hardens  in  water,  then 
the  corn  and  make  into  balls. 


pour  over 


74 


Beverages. 

Tea. — The  water  for  tea  should  be  freshly 
boiled.  An  earthenware  pot  should  be  used. 
Scald  the  pot,  put  in  one  teaspoonful  tea, 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


59 


and  pour  on  one  cup  of  boiling  water. 
Cover  it  and  let  it  steep  five  minutes.  Never 
allow  tea  to  boil. 

Coffee. — To  one  tdblespoonful  ground 
coffee  add  an  eggshell  or  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  white  of  ^<g%  and  one  tablespoonful  cold 
water.  Mix  together  and  pour  on  one  cup 
freshly-boiled  water,  l^et  it  come  to  a  boil ; 
then  steep  five  minutes.  A  little  boiling 
water  ynay  be  poured  in  the  spout  of  the 
cotfee-pot  to  clear  away  the  grounds.  Serve 
with  loaf  sugar  and  hot  cream  or  milk. 

Left-over  coffee  may  be  used  if  poured 
off  the  g;-ounds  immediately.  Keep  it  in  a 
cool  place  until  needed.  Wash  the  pot  out 
carefully  after  using. 

Filtered  Coffee. — Use  pulverized  coffee. 
Put  one  teaspoonful  into  the  upper  part  ol 
a  double  coffee-pot  and  pour  one  cup  boil- 
ing water  through  it.  L,et  it  stand  a  few 
minutes  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove,  where 
it  will  not  boil.     Then  remove  it,  and  serve. 

Cereal  Coffee. — Put  two  tablespoon fuls 
cereal  coffee  into  the  pot  and  pour  a  pint  of 
boiling  water  over  it.  Let  it  boil  fifteen 
minutes.  Strain  and  serve  with  sugar  and 
hot  cream  or  milk.  As  cereal  coffee  is  made 
of  browned  grain,  it  is  a  wholesome  drink, 
and  is  not  stimulating. 

Chocolate. — Grate  chocolate,  allowing 
six  tablespoonful s  for  one  quart  of  water ; 
mix  smooth  with  a  little  water,  and  boil  ten 
minutes  ;  add  one  quart  rich  milk,  boil  five 
minutes  longer,  and  serve  hot  with  sugar. 

Cocoa. — For  one  cup,  take  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  cocoa,  add  either  boiling  milk  or 
water,  or  half  each  ;  sweeten  to  taste. 

Cream  Nectar. — To  one  gallon  boiling 
water  add  four  pounds  granulated  sugar  and 
five  ounces  tartaric  acid.  Beat  the  v/hites 
of  three  eggs,  and  pour  into  a  bottle  with  a 
little  of  the  warm  syrup  ;  shake  briskly, 
then  pour  it  into  the  kettle  of  syrup,  and 
stir  it  through  well.  Boil  three  minutes, 
removing  the  scum  as  it  rises.  Flavor  with 
any  preferred  extract,  and  bottle  for  use. 
When  wanted  to  use,  take  two  or  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  syrup  to  a  glass  of 
ice-cold  water  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
soda. 


Grape  Juice. — Weigh  grapes  before  pick- 
ing from  stem,  then  pick  from  the  stem  and 
put  in  a  kettle.  Add  a  very  little  water, 
cook  until  stones  and  pulp  separate  ;  strain 
through  a  cloth  and  return  juice  to  kettle. 
Add  three  pounds  of  sugar  to  ten  pounds  of 
grapes  previously  weighed  ;  heat  just  to 
simmering.     This  makes  one  gallon. 

Lemon  Syrup. — Take  the  juice  of  twelve 
lemons  ;  grate  the  rind  of  six  in  it,  let  it 
stand  over  night ;  then  take  six  pounds  of 
white  sugar,  and  make  a  thick  syrup.  When 
it  is  quite  cool,  strain  the  juice  into  it ;  put 
in  bottles,  securely  corked,  for  future  use. 
A  tablespoonful  in  a  glass  of  water  will 
make  a  delicious  drink  on  a  hot  day. 

Lemonade  with  Fruit. — Use  six  lemons 
to  a  gallon  of  water  ;  squeeze  the  juice  from 
lemons  and  add  two  teacups  of  sugar  ;  dis- 
solve and  strain.  Then  add  juice  of  fruit, 
either  chetiies  or  raspberries,  or  any  other 
fruit  you  like  as  a  variety. 

Fruit  Punch. — One  dozen  lemons,  one- 
half  dozen  oranges,  one  can  of  pineapple  ; 
boil  four  cups  of  sugar  in  four  pints  of  water 
ten  minutes;  cool,  and  add  one  gallon  of  water. 
Grate  the  pineapple,  press  juice  from  the 
lemons  and  oranges,  strain  through  a  coarse 
towel,  serve  with  cracked  ice. 

Raspberry  Shrub. — Cover  the  berries 
over  night  in  a  stone  jar  with  vinegar,  next 
morning  strain  and  to  one  pint  of  juice  put 
One  pint  of  sugar.  Boil  ten  minutes,  bottle 
hot.     Boiled  longer  will  jelly. 

Dishes  for  the  Sick. 

Beef  Tea. — One  pound  of  lean  beef  cut 
fine,  put  in  a  glass  fruit  jar,  without  water, 
cover  tightly  and  set  in  a  pot  of  cold  water. 
Heat  gradually  to  a  boil  and  keep  hot  for 
three  or  four  hours,  until  the  meat  is  light- 
colored  and  the  juice  is  all  drawn  out. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Invalid's  Cream  Hash. — Boil  a  good 
lean,  tender,  piece  of  beef  until  well  done; 
chop  fine  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  meat ; 
roll  four  crackers  fine,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix 
all  together,  cover  with  sweet  cream,  set  in 
the  stove  and  heat. 

Barley  Water. — Put  a  large  tablespoon- 
ful of  pearl  barley  in  a  pitcher,  pour  over  it 


75 


6o 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


boiling  water,  cover  and  let  stand  till  cold, 
then  drain  off  the  water,  sweeten  to  taste. 
If  desired  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and 
grated  nutmeg. 

Broiled  Oysters. — Select  large  oysters. 
Lightly  grease  with  butter  a  wire  broiler, 
place  oysters  on  it  and  broil  over  hot  coals, 
watching  them  closely  as  they  cook  quickly. 
When  the  edges  begin  to  look  ruffled  turn 
them  and  in  a  short  time  they  will  be  done. 
Have  ready  a  slice  of  bread  nicely  toasted 
and  buttered  slightly.  Place  the  oysters  on 
it,  salt,  pepper  and  butter  slightly.  Let 
stand  in  oven  a  minute  or  two.  This  is  a 
most  tempting  dish  for  a  sick  person. 

Oatmeal  Gruel.  —  Mix  together  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  oatmeal,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  sugar  and  one 
cup  boiling  water.  Cook  thirty  minutes 
and  strain  through  a  fine  wire  strainer  to  re- 
move the  hulls.  Add  one  cup  milk  and 
heat  to  boiling-point. 

Eggs  for  Invalids. — Put  them  in  a  pan, 
pour  boiling  water  over  them,  set  back  on 
the  stove  five  minutes ;  season  to  taste. 
After  eating  them  this  way  the  sick  will  not 
want  them  any  other  way. 

Corn  Meal  Gruel. —  Stir  slowly  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  corn  meal  in  one  quart  of 
boiling  water,  cook  twenty  minutes,  stir 
often,  add  hot  water  if  too  thick. 

Mutton  Broth. — Take  two  pounds  mut- 
ton, put  in  a  sauce-pan,  with  two  quarts  of 
cold  water  and  one  ounce  of  pearl  barley  or 
rice.  When  it  boils  skim  well ;  add  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  let  boil  until  re- 
duced to  one-half.  Strain  it  off  and  skim  off 
all  the  fat. 

Clam  Broth. — Take  twelve  small  hard- 
shell clams,  chop  fine,  add  one-half  pint 
clam  juice,  or  hot  water,  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper,  small  lump  butter ;  simmer  thirty 
minutes,  add  one  gill  boiling  milk.  Strain 
and  serve. 

Toast  Crackers  or  Bread  Panade. — 
Toast  crackers  or  stale  bread  until  very 
brown.  Pour  over  them  hot  water  to 
cover ;  cover  tightly  and  steep  until  cold. 
Strain  and  sweeten  to  taste  or  drink  hot  with 
cream  and  sugar.  Or  add  lemon  juice  or  a 
very  little  nutmeg. 


Oyster  Toast. — Take  six  oysters,  strain 
off  the  liquor,  add  to  it  one-half  cup  milk. 
When  hot  add  the  oysters  ;  boil  one  minute. 
Season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  The" 
pour  over  hot  buttered  toast  and  serve. 

Flax  Seed  Tea. — To  one  tablespoonful 
of  flax  seed  add  one  pint  of  cold  water. 
Boil  slowly  for  one  hour  ;  add  sugar  to 
taste  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Very 
good  for  a  cough. 

Koumyss. — H'eat  two  quarts  of  perfectly 
fresh  milk  to  165  degrees.  Boil  together 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  two  of 
water  ;  add  this  to  the  milk.  When  it  has 
cooled  to  100  degrees,  add  one-third  of  a 
yeast  cake  dissolved  in  warm  milk.  Mix 
by  pouring  from  one  vessel  to  another. 
Bottle,  cork  and  tie.  Stand  upright  in  a 
moderately  cool  place  (60  degrees)  for 
twelve  hours  ;  then  turn  the  bottles  on  their 
sides  in  a  cool  place  (40  degrees  to  50  de- 
grees) for  twenty-four  hours,  and  it  is  ready 
for  use.     Open  with  a  syphon. 

Cooling  Drinks  in  Fever. — Crush  a 
bunch  of  Malaga  grapes,  pour  over  them 
one  pint  of  hot  water  ;  let  stand  until  cold. 
Or  pour  one-half  pint  of  boiling  water  over 
one  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly,  and  stir 
until  jelly  is  dissolved.  Other  jellies  are 
good  prepared  in  like  manner. 


Menus  for  Various  Occasions. 

Breakfast. 

Fruit. 

Oat  Meal.  Cream  and  Sugar. 

Broiled  Steak. 

Fried  Potatoes. 

Biscuit.  Coffee. 


Lunch. 

Cold  Chicken. 
Saratoga  Chips. 
Apple  Sauce.  Wafers. 

Chocolate. 


Dinner. 

Tomato  Soup. 


Roast  Lamb.  Mint  Sauce. 

Boiled  Potatoes. 


76 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


61 


Asparagus  on  Toast. 

Cabbage  Salad. 

Wafers.  Cheese. 

Peach  Ice  Cream.  Sponge  Cake. 

Coflfee. 


Breakfast. 

Fruit. 

Breakfast  Food.  Sugar  and  Cream. 

Broiled  White  Fish. 

Baked  Potatoes. 

Griddle  Cakes.  Maple  Molasses. 

CoflFee. 


Dinner. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

Fried  Chicken.  Cream  Gravy. 

Mashed  Potatoes. 

Sweet  Potatoes. 

Tomato  Salad. 

Wafers.  Cheese. 

Cherry  Pie. 

Tea. 


Supper. 

Thin  Slices  Cold  Boiled  Ham. 

Pepper  Sauce.  Thin  Bread  and  Butter. 

Potato  Salad.  Cheese  Straws. 

Raspberry  Float.  White  Cake. 

Tea. 


Breakfast. 

Fruit. 

Wheatlet,  Sugar  and  Cream. 

Broiled  Pork  Chops. 

Browned  Potatoes.  Rice  Pancakes. 

Coflfee. 


Dinner. 

Tomato  Soup. 

Roast  Duck.  Currant  Jelly. 

Sweet  Potatoes.  Mashed  Turnips. 

Stewed  Celery.      Lettuce  Salad. 

Wafers.  Apple  Pie.  Cheese. 

CoflFee. 


Supper. 

Oysters  on  Half  Shell. 
Broiled  Quail  on  Toast. 


Potato  Chips. 

Sliced  Oranges. 
Tea. 


Olives 

Crullers. 


A  Formal  Breakfast  or  Luncheon 

Bouillon  in  Cups.  Wafers 

Sweetbreads.  Rolls. 

Biroiled  Chicken,  Cream  Sauce. 

Peas. 

Tomatoes,  Mayonnaise  Dressiuji 

Thin  Bread  and  Butter. 

Charlotte  Russe  in  Molds. 

CoflFee. 


A  Wedding  Breakfast. 

Grape  Fruit. 

Corn  Fritters. 

Dumplings  stuflFed  with  Cheese, 

Cream  Sauce. 

Biscuits. 

Mayonnaise  of  Tomatoes. 

Toasted  Bread  Fingers. 
Ice  Cream  Sponge  Cake. 

CoflFee. 


A  Formal  Dinner. 


Oysters  on  the  Half  Shell. 
Horseradish  Sauce.  Wafers. 

Clear  Lintel  Soup.  Croutons. 

Olives.  Radishes.  Celery. 

Boiled  Cod  Shoulder  and  Head. 

Fish  Sauce.  Potato  Balls. 

Cucumbers  with  Fiench  Dressing. 

Roast  Chicken  with  Chestnut  Stuflfing. 

Cranberry  Sauce.  Rice  Croquettes 

Mint  Sherbet. 

Roast  Small  Birds,  Sippets  of  Bread 

Guava  Jelly. 

Lettuce  Salad  with  French  Dres&.  ug 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Wafers.  Cheese. 

CoflFee. 


77 


Thanksgiving  Dinner. 

Oyster  Soup. 

Olives.  Celery. 

Roast  Turkey.  Chestnut  Dressing 

Cranberry  Sauce.    Pickles.     Sweet  Pickles 

Fruit  Salad. 


62 


THE.  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


Scalloped  Potatoes.        Sweet  Potatoes. 
French  Peas        Scalloped  Oysters. 

Cherry  Ice. 

Sweet  Pudding.  Sauce. 

Mince  Pie.  Pumpkin  Pie. 

Cheese. 

Lemon  Jelly  with  Nuts. 

Chocolate  and  Fruit  Cake. 
Bonbons.  Almonds. 

Coffee. 


Christmas  Dinner. 


Creamed  Clams,  Wafers. 

Mixed  Pickles. 

Roast  Turkey  with  Oyster  Dressing. 

Oyster  Sauce. 

Celery.  Spiced  Currants. 

Sweet  Potatoes.  Mashed  Potatoes. 

Scalloped  Corn. 

Lemon  Orange  Ice. 

Cold  Boiled  Ham.  Horseradish  Sauce. 

Tomato  Salad.      Boston  Brown  Bread. 

English  Plum  Pudding  with  Sauce. 

Pine  Apple  Sherbet.  Fancy  Cakes. 

Coffee. 

Nuts.         Home-made  Caramels.         Fruit. 


Quick  Meals. 

Breakfast. 


Fruit. 


Boiled  Eggs. 
Coffee. 


Milk. 
Toast. 


Dinner. 


Beef  Stew. 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes. 

Sliced  Tomatoes. 

Junket. 


Supper. 

Toast  and  Cheese.  Brown  Bread. 

Mayonnaise  of  Cabbage. 

Tea. 


Breakfast — in  i5  Minutes. 

Fruit. 


Boiled  Rice. 


Toast. 


Coffee. 


Luncheon — in  2o  Hinutes^ 

Fricasse  of  Dried  Beef. 

Graham  Bread. 

Cocoa.  Crackers. 


Dinner — in  30  Minutes. 

Clear  Soup. 

Broiled  Chops.  Baked  Rice. 

Panned  Tomatoes. 

Lettuce  Cheese. 

Coffee. 


Small  Evening  Parties 

Thin  Slices  Bread. 
Tongue  Salad. 


Butter 
Cucumber  Pickles. 
Coffee. 


Clam  Sandwiches. 
Fruit  Salad. 


Mixed  Pickles. 
Cheese  Straws. 


Tea. 


Ham  Salad. 

Thin  Slices  Boston  Brown  Bread. 

Butter.  Pickles. 

Vanilla  Ginger  Bread. 

Coffee. 


Oyster  Sandwiches. 
Wafers. 

Chocolate. 


Chow  Chow, 
Cheese. 


Afternoon  Receptions. 

Clam  Broth  in  Cups.  Wafers, 

Salmon  Sandwiches.  Olives. 

Tongue  Salad  in  Tomatoes. 

Coffee. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream. 

Angel  Food.  Chocolate  Cake. 

Bonbons.  Salted  Almonds. 


78 


Chicken  Sandwiches.  Olives. 

Sweetbread  with  Peas. 

Fruit  Salad  on  Lettuce  Leaves. 

Cheese  Straws. 

Coffee.  Cake. 

Neapolitan  Ice  Cream.  Cream  Cake. 

Salted  Mixed  Nuts.  Bonbons. 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


63 


Oyster  Soup  in  Cups.  Wafers. 

Celery. 

Chicken  Salad.  Bread. 

Lemon  Jelly  with  Nuts. 

Coffee. 

Banana  Ice  Cream.  Three-Ply  Cake. 

Salted  Pecans.  Olives. 

Home-made  Caramels. 


Cold  Tongue.         Brown  Bread  and  Butter. 

Sliced  Tomatoes. 

Tea.  Gingerbread. 

For  the  children,  Whole  Wheat  Bread  and 

Milk,  Fruit,  Gingerbread. 


Small  Picnics. 


Cold  Chicken. 

Lettuce,  French  Dressing. 

Bread-and-Butter  Sandwiches. 

Olives. 

Cocoanut  Jumbles.  Lemonade. 


Cheese  Sandwiches. 

Stuffed  Eggs.  Bread  and  Butter, 

Fruits. 

Fruit  Sandwiches.  Cinnamon  Bun. 

Coffee  or  Lemonade. 


Thin  Cold  Corned  Beef. 

Brown  Bread  and  Butter. 

Sliced  Tomatoes,  Plain. 

Coffee. 

Peaches.  Water  Thins 


TABLE-SETTING  AND  SERVING 


A  table  should  be  made  to  look  as  neat 
and  attractive  as  possible. 

Dust  the  table,  and  lay  evenly  on  it  a 
cloth  of  felt-flannel  or  cotton-flannel. 
Spread  the  tablecloth  evenly  over  this.  The 
undercloth  prevents  the  dishes  from  making 
a  noise,  preserves  the  tablecloth  and  gives 
the  table  a  better  appearance. 

The  tablecloth  should  be  laid  with  the 
hemmed  edges  underneath,  and  the  lines  in 
the  cloth  parallel  with  edges  of  the  table. 

The  knife  is  placed  at  the  right  hand, 
with  the  sharp  edge  turned  to  the  left ;  and 
the  fork  at  the  left  hand  with  the  prongs 
pointing  upward.  A  spoon  is  placed  to  the 
right  of  the  knife  and  the  napkin  to  the  left 
of  the  fork.  All  these  articles  should  be 
about  two  inches  from  the  edge  of  the  table. 
The  tumbler  is  placed  at  the  end  of  the 
knife  blade  and  the  butter  plate  at  the  end 
of  the  fork.  When  bread  and  butter  plates 
are  used,  place  one  at  the  left  of  each  fork. 

The  Breakfast  Table. — Proceed  as  di- 
rected above,  with  the  addition  of  the  carv- 
ing knife  and  fork  at  the  right  hand  of  the 
one  who  carves,  and  with  the  salt  and  pep- 
per bottles  together  near  the  ends  or  opposite 
corners  of  the  table. 

Arrange  the  tea  or  coffee  service  around 
the  place  of  the  one  who  is  to  serve  it.    Put 


the  tea  or  coffee-pot  on  a  stand  at  the  right 
side,  with  the  handle  toward  the  right ;  next 
the  cream  pitcher,  with  the  handle  to  the 
right ;  then  the  sugar  bowl  and  spoon - 
holder.  At  the  left  hand  arrange  the  cups 
and  saucers. 

When  mush  or  breakfast  food  is  used, 
place  a  tablespoon,  with  the  handle  toward 
the  right,  in  front  of  the  one  who  is  to  serve, 
and  saucers  to  the  left  of  the  tablespoon. 
The  mush,  in  a  covered  dish,  should  stand 
directly  in  front  of  the  one  who  serves  it. 

The  butter  should  be  placed  near  some 
one  who  can  conveniently  serve  it,  and  the 
butter-knife  in  front  of  the  dish,  with  the 
handle  at  the  right. 

In  serving  meat,  place  the  platter  before 
the  one  who  is  to  carve,  with  the  pile  of  hot 
plates  directly  in  front  or  at  the  left  of  the 
carver. 

Plates  containing  hot  muffins  or  rolls 
should  be  at  opposite  ends  of  the  table. 

The  supper  table  is  arranged  similarly  to 
the  breakfast  table. 

The  Dinner  Table. — The  dinner  table  is 
usually  laid  for  courses. 

First. — Soup  and  rolls,  croutons  or 
baked  crackers. 

Second. — Meat,  potatoes  and  vegetables. 

Third.— Dessert. 
79 


64 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


Arrange  the  cloths,  knives  and  forks, 
etc.,  as  directed  for  the  breakfast  table. 
Place  at  the  right  of  each  knife  a  soupspoon, 
and  a  teaspoon  or  two,  if  needed. 

For  the  first  course,  place  a  ladle  with 
handle  at  the  right,  in  front  of  the  one  who 
serves  the  soup,  and  hot  plates  at  the  left. 

Soup  should  be  dipped  away,  not  toward, 
the  one  who  serves  it,  and  the  same  rule 
holds  in  eating  it.  Sip  it  qaietly  from  the 
side  of  the  spoon. 

After  the  soup  course  is  finished,  remove 
the  plates  by  taking  them  singly  in  each 
hand,  or  on  a  tray.  Never  pile  soiled  dishes 
to  carry  away,  since  it  is  not  pleasing  to  see 
and  it  makes  double  work  in  scraping  the 
dishes  before  they  are  washed. 

The  meat  and  plates  for  the  second  course 
may  be  arranged  as  for  the  breakfast  table. 
After  the  second  course  remove  everything 
but  the  dessertspoons  and  the  tumblers. 
Pass  to  the  left  of  each  person  and  scrape 
off  the  crumbs,  using  a  tray  and  a  knife, 
which  is  cleaner  and  more  thorough  than  a 
brush.  Place  the  dessert  in  front  of  the  one 
who  is  to  serve  it,  with  the  plates  or  saucers 
at  the  left. 

General  Directions.— When  the  waiter 
passes  the  food  to  each  person  it  should  be 
passed  on  the  left  side  of  the  person.  In 
placing  a  dish  in  front  of  a  person  the  waiter 
should  stand  at  the  person's  right.  Dishes 
should  be  removed  from  the  right  side. 

Place  everything  straight  upon  the  table. 

Turn  no  dishes  upside  down. 

In  setting  the  table  try  not  to  forget  any- 
thing.    Remember   that   care   in   setting  a 
table  trains  the  eye  and  hand  and  contributes 
Quch  to  the  comfort  of  a  household. 

Time  Table  for  Cooking  Vegetables. 

Potatoes,  boiled,  thirty  minutes. 

Potatoes,  baked,  forty-five  minutes. 

Sweet  potatoes,  boiled,  forty-five  min- 
utes; baked,  one  hour. 

Squash,  boiled,  twenty-five  minutes. 

Squash,  baked,  forty-five  minutes. 

Green  peas,  boiled,  twenty  to  forty  min- 
utes. 

Shelled  beans,  boiled,  one-half  to  one 
hour. 

String  beans,  boiled,  two  to  three  hours. 


Green  corn,  boiled,  one-half  hour. 
Asparagus,  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes. 
Spinach,  one  to  two  hours. 
Tomatoes  (fresh),  thirty  minutes. 
Tomatoes  (canned),  fifteen  minutes. 
Cabbage,  forty-five  minutes  to  two  hours. 
Cauliflower,  one  to  two  hours. 
Onions,  one  to  two  hours. 
Beets,  one  to  three  hours. 
Turnips,  forty-five  minutes  to  one  hour 
Parsnips,  forty-five  minutes  to  one  hour. 
Carrots  forty-five  minutes. 

Kitchen  Weights  and  Measures. 

Two  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls,  one 
tablespoonful. 

Four  tablespoonfuls,  one  wineglassful. 

Two  wineglassfuls,  one  gill. 

Two  gills,  one  teacupful. 

Two  teacupfuls,  one  pint- 
Four  teaspoonfuls  salt,  one  ounce. 

One  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
one  ounce. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  ounce. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  pound. 

One  scant  quart  flour,  one  pound. 

Ten  eggs,  one  pound. 

Two  cups  butter,  one  pound. 

The  Cellar  and  Store   Room. 

Vegetables  will  keep  best  on  a  stone  floor 
if  the  air  be  excluded ;  meat  in  a  cold  dry 
place  where  the  air  is  freely  admitted  ;  sugar 
and  sweetmeats  require  a  dry  place  ;  so  does 
salt ;  dried  meats,  hams,  bacons  and  tongues 
the  same.  All  sorts  of  seeds  for  puddings, 
such  as  rice,  etc.,  should  be  kept  closely 
covered  to  preserve  them  from  insects,  but 
if  kept  long  that  will  not  be  sufficient,  unless 
they  be  occasionally  sifted.  Apples  and 
pears  should  be  laid  upon  very  clean  and  dry 
straw  to  prevent  a  musty  taste,  nor  should 
they  be  exposed  to  either  light  or  air.  They 
should  be  arranged  singly  in  rows,  without 
touching  each  other,  and  should  be  often  in- 
spected, both  to  wipe  them  if  damp,  and  to 
reject  those  which  may  appear  to  be  getting 
rotten.  The  larger  sort  of  pears  should  be 
tied  up  by  the  stem.  Apples  may  also  be 
preserved  in  excellent  condition  for  a  long 
period  by  being  packed  in  large  barrels  with 
dry  sand,  but  require  to  be  used  immediately 
they  are  taken  out. 


So 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK  ^,5 

CUTS  OF  MEATS  AND  THEIR  USES 

Every  1  lousekeeper,  in  fact,  every  one  who  has  marketing  to  do,  should  know  some- 
thing of  the  cuts  of  all  common  meats  and  the  most  Idesirable  way  each  can  be  prepared 
for  the  table.  In  the  illustrations  below  are  shown  the  location  of  these  cuts.  The  name? 
may  vary  somewhat  in  different  sections. 


Beef. 

1.  Head.     Not  used  for  food. 

2.  Sticking    piece.       Soups,    beef-tea,    stews, 
corning. 

3.  Neck.       Soups,    stews,     beef-tea,    boiling, 
corning. 

4.  Second  and    third  chuck.      Brown  stews, 
braising,  steaks,  poorer  roasts. 

5.  First  chuck.     Roasts. 

6.  First  cut,  standing  ribs.     Roasts. 

7.  Middle  cut,  ribs.     Roasts. 

8.  Back  ribs.     Roasts. 

9.  Plate   (no  bones).     Stews,   soups,   corning. 

10.  Brisket.  Stews,  brown  stews,  soups,  corning. 

11.  Butt  end  of  brisket.     Soups,  stews,  corning. 

12.  Bolar  (no  bones).     Corning,  cheap  roasts. 

13.  Bouy  end  of  shoulders.     Soups. 

14.  Shin.     Soups. 

15.  Loin    (including     tenderloin    and    sirloin). 
Roasts  and  steaks. 

16.  Flank  or  skirt, 
boiling,  corning. 

17.  Rump.      Roasts   aud   steaks.      Meat   to   be 
cut  across  the  grain. 

18.  Veiny  piec3.     Stews,  soups. 

08  R  5 


Rolled   steaks,   braising, 


19.  Round.     Stews,  beef-tea,  poorer  steaks. 

20.  Leg.     Soups  and  stews. 

21.  Tail.     Soups. 

22.  Pin-bone.     Roasts. 

The  bones,  gristle,  tendons  and  other  gelatin 
ous  portions  are  all  excellent  for  making  soup  stock 


Mutton. 


Roasts,  chops. 
Roasts,  boiling. 


1.  Shoulder. 
Boiling. 

2.  Breast.  Roast, 
stews,  chops. 

3.  Loin.  Best 
end  used  for  roasts, 
chops. 

4.  Neck.  Best 
end,  cutlets,  stews, 
pies. 

5.  Neck.  Scrag 
end,  stewing 
pieces. 

6.  Head.  Not 
used. 


t)6 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


The  Kitchen. 

The  kitchen  arrangements  will  depend 
upon  many  conditions,  as  size,  shape  and 
means  of  owner.  But  every  kitchen  can 
always  be  kept  neat  and  tidy  and  supplied 
with  a  stove  or  range  and  usual  cooking 
utensils.  These  we  need  not  describe  here. 
Only  a  few  hints  or  things  which  may  be 
overlooked  will  be  needed  here. 

Since  American  enterprise  has  suc- 
ceeded in  supplying  cheap  time-keepers  of 
reliable  performance,  every  kitchen  should 
include  a  clock  in  its  outfit.  Having 
learned  from  cook  books  and  personal  ex- 
periment the  average  length  of  time  required 
to  cook  the  usual  meats,  poultry,  vegeta- 
bles, etc.,  make  a  list  of  these  and  hang  it 
up  in  some  convenient  place  in  your  kitchen. 
You  will  find  it  of  great  aid.  It  will  be  a 
helpful  supplement  to  the  time-table  just 
given. 

The  kitchen  utensils  should  include,  as 
useful  additions,  a  small  brush  for  cleaning 
vegetables  which  are  cooked  in  their  skins, 
as  potatoes  and  beets ;  a  pair  of  sharp - 
pointed  scissors  for  opening  fish,  small 
birds,  etc.  ;  a  wall  pincushion  containing, 
besides  pins  and  needles,  a  large  darning- 
needle  for  sewing-up  poultry  ;  a  bag  with  a 
thimble,  coarse  thread,  soft  cotton  for  the 
darning-needle,  twine,  and  narrow  strips  of 
muslin  for  tying  up  bunches  of  asparagus 
ready  for  cooking  ;  a  coarsely  crocheted  or 
netted  bag  for  boiling  cauliflower ;  several 
small  boards  to  set  hot  pots  and  pans  on, 
while  dishing  their  contents,  and  a  linked 
chain  dishcloth  for  scouring  the  inside  of 


pots  and  pans  when  they  have  been  used  to 
cook  any  article  that  sticks. 

All  cooking  utensils  should  be  kept  free 
from  soot,  as  less  fire  is  required  to  boil  the 
contents  of  a  bright,  clean  saucepan  or 
kettle.  Should  they  have  been  neglected 
and  have  become  very  black,  rub  them  with 
a  flannel  rag  dipped  first  in  oil,  then  in  pow- 
dered brick,  and  polish  with  a  dry  flannel 
and  a  little  more  brickdust.  All  pots  and 
pans  are  easier  to  wash  if  a  little  hot  water 
is  poured  into  them  when  their  contents  are 
emptied  out,  they  being  then  placed  on  the 
rack  at  the  back  of  the  stove  or  on  the 
hearth  until  it  is  convenient  to  wash  them. 

Silver  should  always  be  washed  in  clean, 
hot  water,  as  soap  dulls  the  polish.  In 
washing  the  dishes,  take  the  glasses  first, 
next  the  silver,  then  such  dishes  as  are  not 
greasy,  and,  finally,  the  greasy  dishes — 
these  are  best  washed  in  two  waters.  Never 
let  steel  knives  lie  in  water,  as  this  discolors 
and  loosens  the  handles.  Pouring  hot 
water  on  them  is  likely  to  have  the  same 
effect.  Always  have  two  cloths  for  clean- 
ing knives  ;  wet  the  first  with  water,  dip 
into  brickdust  or  fine  ashes,  and  rub  off  all 
spots  ;  polish  with  a  dry  cloth  with  a  little 
of  the  dust ;  then  wipe  on  a  clean,  dry  towel. 

It  is  best  to  have  two  sets  of  tea  towels; 
one  set  going  into  the  wash  each  week,  and 
being  ironed  and,  if  needed,  darned.  Close 
attention  should  be  given  to  the  sink.  It 
should  be  rinsed  out  whenever  soiled,  and 
when  the  day's  work  is  done  should  be 
thoroughly  flushed  with  clean  hot  water,  so 
as  to  wash  from  the  drainpipe  trap  any  im- 
purities which  may  have  lodged  there. 


OUTSIDE  THE  KITCHEN 


The  kitchen,  while  the  humblest,  is  the 
most  important  section  of  the  household, 
and  we  have  accordingly  given  ample  space 
to  its  greatly  varied  culinary  products,  and 
have  also  spoken  of  the  etiquette  and  man- 
agement of  the  dining-room,  which  comes 
next  to  it  in  importance.  But  the  duties  of 
family  life  are  by  no  means  confined  to 
these  two  apartments.  The  remainder  of 
the  house  demands  its  round  of  daily  labors. 
And  here  ornament  needs  to  be  considered 


as  well  as  utility.  It  is  here  the  family 
spends  its  hours  of  recreation,  enjoyment, 
and  repose ;  here  many  of  its  social  duties 
are  performed  ;  here  art  and  comfort  join 
hands  with  usefulness  and  necessity,  and  it 
is  to  the  demands  of  the  household  at  large 
that  our  attention  must  now  be  directed. 

The  labors  to  be  performed  comprise 
sweeping,  cleaning,  the  daily  care  of  sleep- 
ing apartments,  attention  to  the  many  small 
articles  of  adornment  and  utility;  to  clothing, 


82 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


67 


pictures,  books,  and  furniture ;  to  wash- 
ing, mending,  and  a  multitude  of  duties  of 
which  every  day  brings  a  new  list.  Let  us, 
for  example,  rapidly  review  the  ordinary 
weekly  duties  in  a  well-managed  household, 
but  one  limited  to  a  single  maid,  engaged 
for  general  housework. 

Diary  of  a  Week's  Work. 

On  Monday  the  maid  is  expected  to 
devote  the  morning  to  the  heavy  labor  of 
washing ;  rising  early,  and  getting  the  day's 
labors  well  under  way  before  the  breakfast 
hour.  She  will  have,  besides,  the  meals  to 
attend  to,  but  these  are  necessarily  made 
simple  and  expeditious  on  that  day,  the 
mistress  of  the  household  usually  finding  it 
necessary  to  assist  in  the  cooking  and  dish- 
washing. 

Care  should  be  taken  to  choose  a  plain 
dinner — steaks  or  chops,  potatoes,  and  some 
ready-made  dessert.  The  afternoon  is  occu- 
pied in  finishing  the  washing,  hanging  out 
the  clothes,  and  getting  the  tea,  which  must 
be  a  meal  easily  cooked  ;  for  the  ' '  tidying 
up  "  of  the  kitchen  is  yet  to  be  done  before 
the  girl  can  rest.  It  will  be  a  great  assist- 
ance, in  places  where  the  visiting  is  suffi- 
ciently informal  to  permit  it,  if  some  mem- 
ber of  the  family  open  the  door  to  callers 
on  busy  days. 

Tuesday,  by  general  consent,  is  assigned 
to  the  work  of  ironing ;  and  here  it  will 
usually  be  necessary  for  the  mistress  to 
"  lend  a  hand,"  and  aid  in  clear-starching 
and  ironing  the  fine  clothing. 

Wednesday  is  devoted  to  baking  part  of 
the  cake,  bread,  and  pies  that  will  be  needed 
during  the  week.  In  this  work  the  mistress 
helps  by  washing  the  currants,  stoning  the 
raisins,  beating  the  eggs,  and  making  the 
light  pastry.  Often  a  lady  who  has  a  taste 
for  cooking  makes  all  the  desserts,  cakes, 
and  pies.  She  should  never  consider  it 
extravagant  to  supply  herself  with  the  best 
cooking  utensils — egg-beaters,  sugar-sifters, 
double-boilers,  etc.,  and,  if  a  good  house- 
keeper, she  will  find  both  pride  and  pleasure 
in  her  jars  of  home-made  pickles  and  pre- 
serves. 

Thursday  the  maid  must  sweep  the  house 
thoroughly,  for  this  work,  if  the  carpets  are 
heavy,  requires  strength.   The  mistress  then 


^Z 


dusts  room  after  room,  and,  last  of  all,  the 
servant  follows  with  step-ladder  to  wipe  ofl' 
mirrors  and  windows.  This  is  morning- 
work,  for  the  Thursday  afternoon  out  for 
the  maid  is  an  established  institution. 

Friday  is  commonly  occupied  in  general 
house-cleaning:  scrubbing  the  floors,  clean- 
ing the  brasses  and  silver,  scouring  the 
knives,  and  putting  linen-closets  and  draw- 
ers in  order. 

Saturday  is  filled  with  baking  bread  and 
cake,  perhaps  with  cleaning  the  yard  or 
other  out- of  door  work,  and  in  some  house- 
holds with  preparing  the  Sunday  dinner; 
and  the  toil  of  the  week  closes  with  a  thor- 
oughly swept  and  orderly  house,  a  clean 
kitchen,  and  all  the  cooking  done  except 
the  meat  and  vegetables  for  the  Sunday 
dinner. 

Of  course  the  routine  given  above  will 
not  suit  all  families  ;  many  persons  may  pre- 
fer to  make  a  diflerent  apportionment  of  their 
work ;  but  whatever  the  system  fixed  upon 
may  be,  it  should  be  rigidly  carried  out,  and 
the  maid  should  receive  all  the  help  in  her 
manifold  duties  that  punctuality  and  order 
bestow. 

Under  the  most  favorable  circumstances 
it  is  a  credit  to  any  mistress  to  carry  on  the 
work  of  a  house  through  the  week,  with 
three  meals  daily,  and  to  accomplish  it  she 
must  be  capable  of  doing  much  of  the  light 
work  herself  and  be  careful  to  secure  a  strong 
and  willing  maid  servant. 

Svt^eeping  and  Cleaning. 

When  preparing  to  sweep  a  room,  it  is 
important  to  begin  by  dusting  all  the 
bric-a-brac  and  carrying  it  to  a  place  of 
safety.  The  smaller  articles  can  be  placed 
in  a  wide  shallow  basket  kept  expressly  for 
this  purpose,  or  on  a  tray.  Next,  with  a 
soft  cheese-cloth  or  other  duster  and  a  whisk, 
Hean  carefully  all  the  upholstered  furniture  ; 
carrying  out  the  small  articles,  and  covering 
the  larger  ones  with  dusting  sheets.  The 
glass  globes  of  gas  fixtures  must  be  washed 
in  warm,  soapy  watei,  j'nd  rinsed  in  cold 
water,  in  which  a  little  whiting  has  been 
dissolved.  Shake  the  window  curtains  and 
fold  them  up  as  high  as  you  can  reach ;  pin 
them  there,  taking  care  not  to  tear  thejfc. ., 


68 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


dust   the  shades   with  a  feather  brush  and 
roll  them  up  as  high  as  they  will  go. 

Brush  down  the  walls,  carefully  dust  the 
picture  frames,  and  then  begin  your  sweep- 
ing. Use  a  whisk  to  rid  the  corners  and 
the  edges  of  the  carpet  of  dust,  then  gently, 
but  with  a  steady  stroke,  sweep  all  the  dirt 
into  the  middle  of  the  room,  and  take  it  up 
in  a  dustpan.  Repeat  this  operation  to  se- 
cure any  dust  that  may  have  blown  back. 
Should  the  carpet  be  very  dusty,  moist  tea 
leaves  or  Indian  meal,  scattered  over  the 
floor  before  beginning  to  sweep,  will  gather 
up  most  of  the  fine  dust  and  prevent  its 
rising  and  settling  on  the  walls,  etc.  It 
freshens  and  cleans  a  carpet  wonderfully  to 
wipe  it  thoroughly  with  a  woolen  cloth 
wrung  out  of  water  mixed  with  household 
ammonia. 

Ink  stains  in  the  carpet  may  be  removed 
with  salt.  If  they  have  dried,  slightly 
moisten  the  salt  with  water,  scatter  it  over 
the  stains,  and  keep  gently  brushing  it  back 
and  forth  until  it  is  quite  black,  substitute 
more  salt,  and  so  continue  until  all  the  ink 
is  drawn  out  of  the  carpet  and  absorbed  by 
the  salt.  If  the  ink  is  freshly  spilled,  you 
need  not  dampen  your  salt. 

Should  your  window  panes  need  wash- 
ing in  freezingly  cold  weather,  it  is  best  to 
do  it  with  a  soft  cloth  dipped  in  alcohol  ; 
at  other  times  a  little  whiting  dissolved  in 
the  water  adds  to  the  brilliant  transparency 
of  the  glass.  In  all  cases  polish  with  old 
newspapers.  Having  attended  to  your  win- 
dows, carefully  dust  again  the  walls,  pic- 
tures, gas-fixtures,  and  all  cornices  and 
moldings ;  draw  down  your  shades,  unpin 
and  drape  your  curtains ;  fold  up  the  dust 
sheets  so  as  to  gather  up  all  the  dust  that 
has  settled  on  them,  and  carry  them  from 
the  room,  which  is  ready  now  to  be  put  in 
order. 

If  you  burn  lamps,  keep  them  scrupu- 
lously clean.  Wicks  soaked  in  strong  vin- 
egar and  dried  before  being  used,  will  not 
smoke.  Two  or  three  times  a  year  the  part 
of  the  lamp  containing  the  wick  should  be 
boiled  in  water  in  which  washing  soda  has 
been  dissolved  ;  this  will  improve  the  quality 
of  the  light  and  obviate  the  danger  of  an 
explosion. 


84 


Nickel-plated  lamps  must  never  be 
washed^  with  soap,  as  this  spoils  the  polish 
and  makes  them  look  like  pewter.  Wipe 
them,  instead,  with  a  soft  cloth  dipped  in 
vinegar.  Lamps  are  more  satisfactory  when 
attended  to  every  day. 

Cleanliness  About  the  House. 

It  is  very  important  that  beds  are  prop- 
erly aired  every  day.  The  most  effectual 
wajT^  to  do  this  is  to  throw  the  clothes  over 
a  chair,  and  lift  the  mattress  partly  over  the 
footboard.  If  a  feather  bed  is  used,  pull  it 
off  upon  a  chair.  Then  open  the  windows 
and  door  so  that  a  current  of  air  can  pass 
through  the  room,  and  let  it  remain  so  for 
several  hours.  Beds  thus  aired  are  always 
healthful,  and  will  induce  sound  sleep  in 
their  occupants.  Each  member  of  the 
family  should  be  taught  to  do  this  daily, 
boys  as  well  as  girls.  They  will  reap  the 
benefit  of  it  through  their  lives,  and  be 
sure  to  have  their  children  trained  in  the 
same  way. 

A  bed  that  is  aired  only  occasionally 
will  contract  impurities  from  the  body  and 
cannot  be  fresh  and  sweet.  Some  persons 
hang  the  pillows  out  of  the  window,  and 
this  is  an  excellent  plan  if  the  dust  is  first 
brushed  off  the  sill. 

"Attend,"  says  a  wise  French  writer, 
"  as  much  to  neatness  as  you  do  to  econ- 
omy. Accustom  girls  never  to  suffer  any- 
thing about  them  to  be  unclean  or  in 
disorder ;  lead  them  to  notice  the  slightest 
deiangement  in  a  house  ;  say  to  them  that 
nothing  contributes  more  to  economy  and 
neatness  than  keeping  things  in  their  proper 
place.  This  may  seem  trifling,  yet  it  leads 
to  very  important  consequences  ;  for  then 
when  anything  is  wanted  there  will  be  no 
difficulty  in  finding  it,  and  when  it  is  done 
with  it  will  be  returned  to  the  place  from 
which  it  was  taken.  This  exact  order 
forms  the  most  essential  part  of  neatness. 
For  instance,  a  dish  will  not  be  soiled  or 
broken  if  it  is  put  in  its  proper  place  as 
soon  as  it  has  been  used.  The  carefulness 
which  makes  us  place  things  in  order  makes 
us  keep  them  clean.  Joined  to  all  these  ad- 
vantages is  that  of  giving  to  domestics  a  habit 
of  neatness  and  activity  by  obliging  them  to 
place  things  in  order  and  keep  them  clean." 


Roast  Turkey 


PRACTICAL  DIRECTIONS 

Remove  tendons  from  the  legs,  singe  and  draw  the  turkey  ;  remove  pin-feathers,  wasju 

and  dry  carefully ;  fill  with  stufl&ng  if  desired ;  cover  the  breast  with  thin  slices  of  salt 

pork,  scored  lightly  and  fastened  in  place  with  strings  or  small  skewers,  and  set  on  the 

rack  of  a  baking  pan  into  a  hot  oven.     Turn  the  bird  often  that  the  heat  may  sear  over 

the  outside  uniformly  and  thus  keep  the  juices  within.     When  this  has  been  accomplishec^ 

that  is,  in  about  fifteen  to  thirty  mint^tes,  add  a  little  hot  water  and  drippings  to  the  pan, 

and  as  soon  as  possible  reduce  the  temperature  to  that  of  ordinary  baking.     Baste  everj 

ten  minutes,  dredging  with  flour  after  each  basting.     When  half  cooked  add  salt  to  the 

flour.     When  the  joints  will  separate  easily  the  cooking  is  completed.     Three  hours  are 

required  to  roast  a  ten -pound  turkey.     When  the  fowl  is  nearly  cooked,  remove  the  pork 

irom  the  breast,  baste  with  a  little  butter  melted  in  hot  water  and  return  to  the  oven  for 

iial  browning  ;  baste  several  times  or  until  the  desired  color  is  attained.     Garnish  with 

water  cress,  cover  the  ends  of  the  drum  sticks  with  paper  frills.     Serve,  at  the  same  time, 

Giblet  Sauce  made  of  the  browned  flour  in  the  pan,  additional  flour  if  needed,  the  water  in 

which  the  giblets  were  cooked,  and  the  giblets  chopped,  but  not  too  fine.     In  America 

«aaberry  sauce  accompanies  this  roast ;  in  England  gooseberry  sauce  is  in  evidence. 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


69 


Dust  is  a  constant  enemy  of  domestic 
comfort,  and  is  a  great  destroyer  of  furni- 
ture. Inhaled  into  the  lungs  it  becomes  one 
of  the  sources  of  disease.  Miss  Nightin- 
gale remarks,  with  great  truth  :  "  Dusting 
in  these  days  means  nothing  but  flapping 
the  dust  from  one  part  of  a  room  to  an- 
other, with  doors  and  windows  closed." 
A  damp  but  not  wet  duster  will  alone  re- 
move dust  without  scattering  it. 

Causes  of  Unwholesomeness. 

The  healthiness  or  unhealthiness  of  a 
house  depends  greatly  upon  its  degree  of 
cleanliness.  Dirty  houses  are  always  more 
or  less  unwholesome.  In  country  places 
care  should  be  taken  that  no  puddles  of 
dirty  water  remain  close  to  the  house,  as 
they  not  only  render  the  air  damp,  but 
cause  much  dirt  to  be  brought  in  on  the 
feet.  Slops  of  dirty  water,  tea-leaves, 
coffee-grounds,  etc.,  should  never  be  thrown 
out  near  the  house,  all  decaying  vegetable 
and  animal  matter  being  injurious.  Cab- 
bage leaves,  potato  and  apple -parings,  and 
other  waste  vegetable  matters,  should  never 
be  thrown  into  the  dust-bin.  It  is  far  the 
safest  plan  to  burn  them,  which  can  always 
be  done  if  they  are  first  dried  by  throwing 
them  at  the  back  of  the  fire  or  in  the  ash-pit. 

The  inside  of  a  house  becomes  unclean  not 
only  from  the  dust  carried  in  by  the  air  and 
the  dirt  brought  in  by  the  feet,  but  from  the 
odor  given  out  by  our  skin  and  with  the 
breath.  This  odor  is  absorbed  by  all  porous 
substances,  as  the  walls,  floors,  and  ceilings, 
and  gives  ;rise  to  that  close,  unwholesome 
smell  which  is  present  in  all  unclean  houses, 
especially  such  as  are  overcrowded.  No 
house  with  such  a  smell  can  possibly  be  a 
healthy  place  to  live  in.  This  animal  efflu- 
vium is  taken  up  by  some  substances  much 
more  readily  than  others.  Walls  that  are 
covered  with  paper  smell  much  more  offen- 
sively than  those  that  are  painted.  And  in 
rooms  where  one  paper  has  been  pasted  over 
another  the  whole  thickness  of  paper  may 
absorb  it.  Painted  or  lime-washed  walls 
are  much  to  be  preferred  to  paper  walls  for 
crowded  dwellings  and  for  sleeping-rooms. 

Woolen  garments,  carpets,  and  curtains 
absorb  such  odors  freely,  and  give  them  out 
for  a  long  time.     Rough  wooden  floors  also 
24  85 


take  them  up,  and  consequently  require  fre- 
quent washing.  For  this  reason  smoothed, 
waxed,  or  painted  floors  are  preferable  to 
rough  wooden  ones. 

The  wholesomeness  of  a  dwelling  is 
much  increased  by  frequently  whitewashing 
such  parts  of  it  as  can  be  treated  in  this 
manner — the  cellar,  storeroom,  etc.  The 
dirt  and  old  whitewash  should  be  first 
washed  away  with  a  brush  and  abundance 
of  clean  water. 

Care  of   Floors. 

Floors  should  not  be  scrubbed  too  fre- 
quently. Once  a  week  is  generally  suffi- 
cient. In  damp  weather  wet  floors  dry  very 
slowly,  and  the  house  remains  damp  and 
cold  for  a  considerable  time.  It  is  better, 
in  all  cases,  to  defer  the  scrubbing  even  for 
a  week  than  to  wet  the  floors  on  a  damp  and 
rainy  day.  In  cases  of  illness  this  is  par- 
ticularly important.  It  should  be  a  fixed 
rule  that  floors,  particularly  those  of  sleep- 
ing-rooms, are  to  be  scrubbed  only  on  dry 
days. 

Bones,  old  shoes  and  boots,  dirty  woolen 
rags,  and  pieces  of  carpet  are  often  allowed 
to  lie  about  the  hoiise.  These  render  the 
air  impure,  and  consequently  unwholesome, 
are  exceedingly  apt  to  become  mouldy,  har- 
bor vermin,  serve  as  breeding  places  for  the 
clothes-moth,  and  retain  tenaciously  any 
infection  to  which  they  may  have  been  ex- 
posed. Such  things  should  always  be  got 
rid  of ;  if  not  sold  at  once,  they  had  better 
be  given  away,  if  of  any  value,  or  else  burnt, 
rather  than  be  kept  to  render  the  air  of  the 
house  impure. 

Wash  as  often  as  convenient.  Dirty 
clothes  put  by  for  weeks  are  more  difficult 
to  clean  the  longer  they  remain  dirty  ;  they 
acquire  a  permanent  bad  color,  and  in  damp 
places  are  apt  to  become  mildewed  and 
rotten. 

Remove  all  stains  as  soon  as  possible ; 
leave  nothing  long  enough  to  fix  itself  thor- 
oughly to  the  cloth  ;  wash  out  grease,  gravy, 
fruit-stains,  etc.,  before  putting  anything 
to  one  side.  Fruit- stains  yield  readily  to 
bleaching-powder,  especially  if,  after  being 
put  on,  it  is  moistened  with  a  drop  of  some 
acid,  as  vinegar  or  lemon  ;  but  neither  acids 
nor  bleaching-powder  should  be  used  with 


70 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


colored  things.  Ink-stains  should  never  be 
put  into  soapy  or  soda  water  or  lye,  as 
they  directly  become  iron-molds  ;  but  they 
should  be  instantly  wetted  with  clean  water, 


and  may  be  at  once  removed  by  the  appli- 
cation of  a  little  salt  of  lemon  or  oxalic 
acid,  which  should  be  washed  out  imme- 
diately. 


HOUSEHOLD  UTILITIES 


It  is  proposed,  in  the  present  section  of 
our  subject,  to  give  practical  advice  on 
various  questions  of  household  utility,  such 
as  the  care  of  clothing,  the  cleaning  of  soiled 
fabrics,  the  removal  of  stains,  and  other 
matters  of  importance  which  come  up  al- 
most daily  in  the  experience  of  housekeep- 
ers. Perfumes  constitute  another  matter  of 
importance,  and  useful  information  about 
various  other  odds  and  ends  of  daily  life  ex- 
perience is  given,  suggestions  which  cannot 
fail  to  be  of  great  utility  to  all  who  have  the 
care  of  a  family  on  their  hands.  In  life 
within  doors  endless  questions  of  what  and 
how  to  do  under  certain  circumstances  arise, 
and  it  is  with  these  exigencies  of  daily  life 
that  we  shall  here  deal. 


Care  of    Furs, 


Feathers 
Goods. 


and  Woolen 


Many  things  and  substances  are  recom- 
mended for  the  destruction  of  injurious  in- 
sects. Pliny  says  that  the  Romans  used 
citron  to  preserve  their  woolen  garments 
from  moths.  We  have  found  that  the  in- 
sects which  injure  furs,  feathers,  and  woolen 
goods  may  be  destroyed  by  the  Indian 
chestnut,  cloves,  walnut  leaves,  or  common 
salt.  Still  more  useful  as  preservatives  are 
cedar  chips,  pepper,  and  camphor  (in  large 
pieces,  for  when  broken  it  loses  strength). 

Whatever  the  remedy  selected,  it  is  nec- 
essary in  the  first  place  to  carefully  shake, 
beat  and  brush  the  furs  (against  the  grain), 
and  all  other  articles  which  are  to  be  put 
away  when  the  season  is  over.  They  should 
then  be  sprinkled  with  pepper  or  camphor, 
and  wrapped  in  a  cloth  which  has  been 
washed  in  lye  water.  Close  the  parcel  care- 
ully,  and  place  in  a  chest  into  which  some 
insect  powder  has  been  sprinkled.  It  is 
well  to  put  away  feathers  in  empty  cigar 
boxes. 

If  one  owns  a  cedar  chest,  or  has  closets 
vhich  are  wainscoted  with  cedar,  it  is  suf- 


86 


ficient  to  hang  up  the  articles  after  having 
well  brushed  and  shaken  them. 

Other  methods  may  be  employed  to  get 
.id  of  moths.  A  liquor  of  one  quart  of 
alcohol  and  the  same  quantity  of  essence  of 
turpentine,  and  sixty-five  grammes  of  cam- 
phor, is  sometimes  used.  This  should  be 
kept  in  an  earthenware  jug,  and  well  shaken 
before  using.  When  the  winter  garments 
are  put  away,  soak  pieces  of  blotting  paper 
in  the  liquid,  and  scatter  among  the  furs  and 
flannels,  which  should  be  rolled  up  in  white 
cloths.  Place  one  layer  at  the  bottom,  one 
above  the  article,  and  one  at  each  side. 

If  one  has  no  such  chest,  then,  after 
having  shaken  and  brushed  the  articles,  fold 
them  separately  in  linen  paper,  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  camphor,  roll  each  parcel 
in  newspaper,  do  the  package  up  in  white 
cloth,  and  hang  in  a  closet  or  dark  room. 

Clean  furs  by  rubbing  them  against  the 
grain  with  heated  bran.  Use  magnesia  for 
white  furs. 

Cleaning  of  Lace. 

Fine  laces  should  be  washed  as  sel- 
dom as  possible  ;  but  when  it  is  necessary, 
most  women  prefer  to  have  them  washed 
under  their  own  eyes.  Make  hot  soap 
suds  with  rain  water  and  glj'cerine  soap. 
The  laces,  after  having  been  rolled  on 
a  glass  bottle  under  a  band  of  linen,  must 
be  put  in  the  suds  and  remain  there  for 
twelve  hours.  Renew  the  soap  suds  three 
times,  plunge  the  bottle  into  soft  and 
clear  water,  and  take  it  out  immediately. 
The  soap  which  remains  serves  to  give  some 
stifiness  to  the  lace  when  pressed  by  a  hot 
iron.  Pin  each  point  down  under  a  fine 
muslin,  and  iron  on  the  wrong  side.  When 
all  is  finished,  raise  each  flower  by  a  suitable 
pointed  instrument. 

Laces  may  be  bleached  by  being  exposed 
to  the  sunlight  in  soap  suds.  The  points 
are  afterward  dried  on  a  cloth  to  which  they 
are  pinned.     They  are  then  rubbed  carefully 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOlC 


71 


by  the  aid  of  a  sponge  dipped  in  soap  suds 
of  glycerine  soap.  First  clean  one  side,  and 
then  the  other.  Rinse  in  clear  water,  in 
which  a  little  alum  is  dissolved,  to  remove 
the  soap. 

A  little  rice  water  should  be  passed  over 
the  wrong  side  of  the  lace  with  a  sponge  ; 
then  it  is  to  be  ironed,  and  when  finished 
the  flowers  should  be  picked  out  as  in  the 
above  method.  If  the  lace  is  not  very  much 
soiled,  it  can  be  cleaned  with  bread  crumbs. 

As  for  cream-colored  laces,  they  should 
be  boiled  for  one  hour  in  soapy  bluing 
water,  then  taken  out  and  the  operation  re- 
peated twice,  always  in  fresh  water.  The 
third  time  there  should  be  no  bluing  in  the 
water,  and  it  should  not  be  rinsed.  The 
lace  should  afterward  be  put  in  gum  water, 
with  a  little  brandy  and  alum  dissolved  in 
it.  Then  powder  lightly  with  sulphur 
flour  and  iron  while  damp. 

Valenciennes  should  be  folded  together 
{\\  a  regular  length,  sewed  in  a  sack  of  fine 
white  linen,  and  soaked  in  olive  oil  for 
twelve  hours.  Afterward  put  some  sliced 
pure  soap  in  water  and  boil  the  sack  con- 
taining the  lace  for  fifteen  minutes.  Rinse 
well,  dip  in  a  thin  rice  water,  then  rip  open 
the  sack  and  pin  down  the  lace  to  dry. 
Iron  it  under  a  muslin  cloth. 

Black  laces  should  also  be  folded  in  a 
short  package  and  kept  in  place  by  stitching 
at  the  top,  in  the  middle,  and  at  the  bottom. 
Dip  the  lace  in  beer  and  roll  it  with  the  hands, 
not  rubbing  too  much  to  clean  it.  When  it 
is  taken  out  of  the  beer,  press  it  between  the 
hands  without  wringing,  then  roll  it  in  a 
cloth.  Iron  it  after  it  has  been  partly  dried, 
according  to  the  desired  stiffness.  To  iron 
it,  stretch  it  on  a  thick  flannel,  and  let  it  re- 
main there.  Cover  it  with  a  thin  piece  of 
muslin  to  prevent*  the  iron  from  making  it 
glossy. 

When  gowns  trimmed  with  lace  are  put 
away,  cover  the  lace  with  silver  paper. 

To  cleanse  silver  laces  and  braids,  put 
them  in  a  sack  of  white  linen,  which  dip  into 
one  pint  of  water,  adding  sixty  grams  of 
soap.  Boil  well,  and  rinse  in  cold  water. 
Apply  a  little  spirits  of  wine  to  the  tarnished 
places 


H.  C.  Pros. 


87 


Cleaning  Woolen  Goods. 

Clean  rose-colored  cashmere  by  washing 
in  cold  soapsuds.  If  you  attempt  to  put 
dye  in  the  water,  the  material  will  be  spoiled. 
Rinse  well  in  cold  water,  and  dry  in  the  shade. 

To  clean  white  serge,  use  a  decoction  of 
soap  wort  roots.  The  gown  when  washed 
will  be  white  and  soft  to  the  touch.  Soap 
hardens  stuff  goods,  and  makes  them  yellow. 

Knitted  or  crocheted  garments  should  be 
washed  in  the  following  manner:  cut  one 
pound  of  soap  in  thin  slices,  and  melt  in  a 
little  water  until  it  has  the  consistency  of 
jelly.  When  the  preparation  has  cooled, 
beat  it  up  with  the  hand,  and  add  three  spoon- 
fuls of  grated  stag's  horn.  Wash  the  whole 
material  in  this  mixture,  and  rinse  well  in 
cold  water.  If  necessary,  dip  the  articles  a 
second  time  in  salt  water  to  fix  the  color. 
Place  before  the  fire  ;  stir  frequently  in  order 
to  let  the  dampness  evaporate  ;  be  sure  not 
to  stretch  the  articles  out  to  dry. 

To  clean  a  faded  black  cashmere,  rub  it 
width  by  width  with  a  sponge  soaked  in  a 
solution  of  alcohol  and  ammonia,  equal 
parts,  diluted  with  hot  water. 

Wash  merinos  and  cashmeres  in  warm 
water  into  which  Irish  potatoes  have  been 
scraped.  Rinse  in  good  soft  water.  These 
materials  should  not  be  wrung  out.  They 
should  be  spread  smoothly  on  a  line  where 
they  may  drip,  and  should  be  allowed  to  be- 
come partly  dry  before  ironing. 

Black  merinos,  cloaks,  gentlemen^s 
clothes,  or  woolen  goods  generally,  may  be 
cleaned  with  carbonate  of  ammonia,  which 
must  be  poured  into  boiling  water  and 
allowed  to  become  cold.  Meanwhile,  brush 
the  stuff  thoroughly  with  a  hard  brush,  lay- 
ing it  upon  a  large  newspaper,  and  brushing 
both  sides,  where  possible. 

Then  take  a  large  piece  of  black  cloth  or 
other  material,  dip  it  into  the  liquid,  and 
wash  the  stuff  well.  If  the  fabric  be  cloth, 
care  must  be  taken  to  wash  it  the  right  way, 
so  as  to  keep  it  smooth.  When  washed,  fold 
the  material  in  half,  and  place  it  in  a  clean 
towel,  laying  one  piece  over  the  other  in 
case  the  garment  has  been  taken  to  pieces. 
Iron  the  wt'ong  side,  laying  the  stuff  on  a 
thickly  folded  blanket  or  sheet,  with  a  thin 
sheet  of  paper,  or  other  thin  material,  over 


72 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


the  blanket  or  sheet.  Iron  each  piece  on 
the  wrong  side  until  quite  dry.  Then  fold 
the  pieces,  but  be  careful  not  to  fold  so  as 
to  crease  them,  especiall)^  cloth.  Gentle- 
men's clothes  can  be  cleaned  in  this  way 
without  taking  to  pieces,  or  ironing,  unless 
convenient.  Vest  and  coat  collars  are 
easily  renovated,  and  grease  spots  and  white 
seams  removed. 

Colored  Fabrics. 

Nearly  all  colored  fabrics  stain  the  water 
used  to  clean  them,  and  that  without  losing 
their  own  brightness  in  any  way.  No  article 
of  a  diflferent  color  should  be  plunged  into  a 
wash  or  rinse  so  stained,  and  no  colored 
article  should  be  rinsed  in  a  blued  lather. 
Scarlet  is  particularly  likely  to  color  wash 
water. 

Colors  are  often  improved  by  the  use  of 
certain  substances  in  the  wash  or  rinse- 
Sugar  of  lead  has  the  credit  of  fixing  all 
colors  when  first  cleaned,  and  may  be  used 
with  those  likely  to  run.  To  brighten 
colors,  mix  some  ox-gall  with  the  water. 
Of  course  the  quantity  must  be  regulated  by 
the  quantity  of  suds  in  the  wash  and  rinse. 
For  buff  and  cream-colored  alpaca  or  cash- 
mere, mix  in  the  wash  and  rinse  a  small 
quantity  of  friar's  balsam  for  one  skirt. 
For  a  dress  of  black  materials,  use  a  little 
ammonia  in  the  wash  and  rinse.  For  violet, 
also  put  ammonia,  or  a  small  quantity  of 
soda,  in  the  rinsing  water  ;  but  it  must  be 
borne  in  mind  that  some  violets  and  mauves 
fade  in  soda.  For  green,  use  vinegar  in  the 
rinse,  in  the  proportion  of  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  vinegar  to  a  quart  of  rinse.  For 
blue,  to  one  dress,  put  a  good  handful  of 
common  salt  in  the  rinse.  For  brown  and 
gray,  use  ox-gall.  For  white,  blue  the 
water  with  laundry  blue. 

Blankets  may  be  similarly  dealt  with. 
Pull  them  out  well,  while  wet,  in  both  di- 
rections, two  persons  pulling.  When  half 
dry  it  is  a  good  plan  to  take  them  off  the 
line  and  pull  them  again  ;  and  when  quite 
dry,  give  them  a  little  more  pulling  out. 
This  keeps  them  open  and  soft.  Never  use 
?oda  to  them,  and  never  rinse  them  in  plain 
water  or  rub  on  soap. 


SS 


Flannels. 

It  is  very  important,  in  washing  flannels 
to  prevent  shrinkage.  The  articles  should 
be  ivashed  and  linsed  in  water  of  the  same 
temperature,  and  not  allowed  to  cool  be- 
tween. Do  not  rub  soap  on  the  goods. 
Use  a  strong  suds,  about  as  hot  as  the  hands 
can  bear  ;  rub  through  two  soapy  waters  ; 
wring  out  and  rinse  in  plenty  of  warm, 
clean  water  ;  then  in  another  water  of  same 
temperature,  blued  a  little.  Wring,  shake 
well,  and  hang  up,  but  not  in  a  freezing  air  ; 
better  dry  them  in  the  house,  unless  a 
warm  sun  is  shining.  Flannels  should  dry 
quickly. 

Colored  flannels  should  not  be  washed 
in  the  water  after  white  clothes,  or  when 
dry  they  will  be  found  covered  with  lint  ; 
they  had  better  be  washed  in  a  separate 
water.  Blue  flannel  requires  bran  water 
without  soap.  When  rinsing,  throw  a  hand- 
ful of  salt  in  the  water  to  preserve  the  color. 
Flannels  that  have  become  yellow  from  bad 
washing,  may  be  whitened  by  soaking  them 
in  a  lather  made  of  a  quarter  pound  of  soft 
soap,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  borax, 
and  the  same  quantity  of  carbonate  of  am- 
monia, dissolved  in  five  or  six  gallons  of 
water. 

Care  of  Muslins 

Muslin  dresses,  even  of  the  most  delicate 
colors,  can  be  cleaned  in  ten  minutes  or  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  without  losing  their 
color.  Melt  half  a  pound  of  soap  in  a  gallon 
of  water  ;  empty  this  into  a  washing  tub  ; 
place  nearby  two  other  large  tubs  of  clean 
water,  and  stir  in  one  a  quart  of  bran .  Put  the 
muslin  in  the  soap,  turn  it  over,  and  knead 
it  for  a  few  minutes;  squeeze  it  out  well, 
and  rinse  for  some  minutes  in  the  bran,  and 
for  two  minutes  more  in  clear  water.  Then 
hang  between  two  lines.  '  In  the  case  of  a 
colored  pattern  on  a  white  ground  do  not 
use  blue. 

In  starching  colored  muslins  use  white 
starch,  made  with  boiling  water.  Dip  the 
dress  in  this,  and,  after  drying,  rinse  quickly 
in  clean  water.  Sprinkle  and  roll,  and 
afterwards  iron  with  very  hot  irons. 

For  white  muslins,  lace  curtains,  etc., 
proceed  as  above,  but  use  blue  in  the  starch. 


FHE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


73 


Morning  cambric  dresses  may  be  cleaned  in 
the  same  way  as  muslins,  but  may  need 
some  rubbing.  Chintz  may  be  cleaned  in 
the  same  manner. 

There  are  certain  advantages  in  this  pro- 
cess, which  is  so  rapid  that  the  colors  have 
not  time  to  run,  the  fabric  is  not  rubbed  or 
strained,  and  the  work  is  done  so  quickly 
as  greatly  to  reduce  the  labor  involved. 

Silks. 

Lay  the  silk  smoothly  on  a  clean  board , 
rub  soap  upon  it,  and  wipe  it  with  a  piece 
of  velvet.  Never  brush  it ;  the  brush  ruins  it. 
When  it  has  been  in  this  manner  cleansed 
from  grease  and  dirt,  it  should  be  washed 
on  both  sides  with  clean  cold  water.  A 
little  alum  in  this  water  will  prevent  the 
colors  from  spreading.  Should  there  be 
any  patches  of  grease  upon  the  silk,  they 
should  be  removed  with  ammonia  or  a  little 
camphine  and  alcohol.  Folding  or  wring- 
ing silk  when  wet  must  be  carefully 
avoided,  since  creases  made  in  wet  silk 
never  disappear;  and,  in  like  manner,  hot 
suds  must  not  be  used  for  washing  silk,  as 
it  will  in  most  instances  remove  the  colors. 

Silks  are  easily  cleaned  if  one  knows 
how  to  work  carefully.  Mix  the  following 
well  together :  Fifty  grams  of  honey,  as 
much  soft  soap,  one  gill  of  brandy.  Rip 
the  gown,  place  in  cold  water,  spread  on  a 
table,  and  rub  well  with  a  brush  dipped  in 
the  mixture.  Rinse  three  times  in  a  pail 
of  water,  into  which  sixty-five  grams  of 
gum  have  been  dissolved.  Let  the  garment 
drip  without  being  wrung,  and  iron  on  the 
wrong  side. 

Another  recipe  :  Grate  five  Irish  pota- 
toes in  clear  cold  water.  If  the  silk  is  thin, 
slice  the  potatoes  instead  of  grating.  Wash 
them  well  before  grating  or  slicing.  Let 
the  prepared  water  stand  for  twenty-four 
hours  before  using.  Then  strain  the  liquid. 
iDip  the  silk  in  without  rumpling  it ;  spread 
it  on  a  table,  wipe  both  sides  with  a  clean 
towel,  and  iron  on  the  wrong  side. 

Grease  stains  may  be  removed  either 
with  chalk,  magnesia,  or  ether,  or  with  the 
yolk  of  an  ^^'g  and  water.  Clean  white 
brocaded  silk  with  bread  crumbs.  Plain 
silk  requires  the  following  process  :  Dis- 
solve soft  soap  in  water  as  hot  as  the  hands 


89 


can  bear  ;  rub  the  silk  between  the  hands  in 
the  soapy  water  ;  rinse  in  warm  water,  and 
dry  by  pinning  on  a  cloth. 

Nothing  is  so  good  for  black  silk,  and, 
in  fact,  for  many  materials,  as  beef  gall. 
Throw  the  gall-bladder  into  as  much  boiling 
water  as  you  care  to  use.  Spread  the  ma- 
terial on  a  table,  and  with  a  sponge  dipped 
in  the  liquid  clean  tlie  silk  on  both  sides. 
Rinse  in  clear  water,  still  on  the  table,  on 
both  sides  with  a  sponge.  Dissolve  a  little 
gum  arable  or  gelatine  in  the  water,  moisten 
the  sponge  with  it,  and  pass  it  over  the 
wrong  side  of  the  silk.  Pin  the  silk  on  a 
cloth  to  dry  it. 

A  good  way  of  removing  grease  stains 
from  black  silk  is  to  rub  them  very  vigor- 
ously with  a  piece  of  brown  wrapping 
paper. 

Velvets. 

Velvet  garments  which  have  been  stained, 
or  worn,  or  have  grown  glossy,  may  be  reno- 
vated so  as  to  look  new.  The  garment  must, 
of  course,  be  ripped,  breadth  by  breadth,  piece 
by  piece.  Then  put  burning  coals  in  a  chaf- 
ing dish,  and  place  on  this  dish  a  platter  of 
thick  brass.  When  it  is  very  hot,  cover  it 
\\ith  a  thickly  folded  cloth  dampened  in 
boiling  water.  Spread  on  this  cloth  the 
velvet,  wrong  side  out.  Do  not  be  fright- 
ened if  you  see  a  black  vapor  arise.  Pass  a 
brush  very  lightly  over  the  velvet.  Let  it 
dry  stretched  smoothly  on  a  table. 

When  the  velvet  has  been  crushed,  turn 
it  wrong  side  out,  and  hold  it  above  boiling 
water,  exposed  to  the  vapor.  Brush  it 
against  the  grain. 

Before  putting  away  gowns,  mantles, 
plush  or  velvet  jackets,  the  dust  should  be 
removed.  To  do  this,  spread  some  fine 
white  sand  over  the  material.  Brush  it  un- 
til the  last  grain  of  sand  has  disappeared. 
If  mud  stains  are  on  the  garment,  dilute 
beef  gall  and  a  little  spirits  of  wine  in  boil- 
ing water.  Wet  a  soft  brush  in  the  mix- 
ture, and  rub  the  stain,  repeating  as  often 
as  necessary.  Apply  to  the  back  of  the 
material  a  thin  solution  of  gum. 

Veils,   Hats,   Etc. 

Wash  faded  ribbons  in  cold  soapsuds. 
Rinse,  shake  out,  spread  on  the  ironing-boan ' , 
and  cover  with  muslin,  ironing  while  damp. 


74 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


Women  in  mourning  frequently  discard 
long  crape  veils  and  trimmings,  not  because 
they  are  ruined  by  the  rain,  but  because 
they  do  not  know  bow  to  care  properly  for 
this  material  when  it  is  wet.  It  should  be 
dried  immediately,  spreading  it  out,  but  not 
near  the  fire.  If  it  is  stained  with  mud, 
clean  it  with  cold  water,  and  dry  awaj^from 
the  fire,  air,  and  sunshine.  English  crape, 
when  it  has  become  limp,  should  be  damp- 
ened with  brandy,  then  rolled  on  a  roller. 
Moisten  it  at  each  turn,  and  evenly  through- 
out. Milk  may  also  be  used  to  dampen 
crape  and  to  restore  its  color,  but  the  crape 
should  be  carefully  sponged  afterward  with 
water. 

Black  thread  stockings  may  be  washed 
as  follows  :  Never  use  soap,  but  a  suds 
made  of  a  teacupful  of  bran  inclosed  in  a 
muslin  bag,  thrown  into  warm  water,  and 
well  stirred.  First  wash  the  stockings  in 
this  preparation.  On  taking  them  out  of 
the  water,  roll  them  in  a  towel,  pressing 
strongly,  and  dry  quickly  near  the  fire,  not 
in  the  air. 

If  this  precaution  be  taken,  the  stock- 
ings will  retain  a  fine  black  color,  and  never 
grow  dingy.  If  they  are  neglected  and  be- 
come rusty,  the  color  can  oe  restored  by 
boiling  them  in  one  quart  of  water,  into  which 
a  few  chips  of  logwood  have  been  thrown. 

Felt  hats  which  have  been  wet  should 
be  brushed  before  drying.  Rip  off  the  trim- 
mings ;  begin  brushing  at  the  border,  and 
continue  turning,  always  on  the  same  side, 
until  the  center  is  reached  at  the  very  top. 
Place  the  hat  on  a  mold  and  let  it  dry  be- 
fore putting  it  away.  It  will  be  as  fine  and 
beautiful  as  when  new. 

In  putting  gowns  away  for  the  season, 
wrap  them  in  blue  paper  tightly  sealed. 
White  silk  skirts  should  be  placed  in  a  sec- 
ond covering  of  muslin,  and  the  bodices  put 
away  in  cases  or  boxes.  Fold  the  trains 
their  full  length. 

To  cleanse  the  collars  of  garments,  dis- 
solve one  part  salt  in  four  of  alcohol.  Apply 
with  a  sponge  and  rub  well. 

Cloth,  serge,  felt  hats,  may  all  be  cleansed 

by  dipping  a  hard  brush,  which  has  short 

hairs,  into  spirits  of  ammonia.     Rub  until 

the  grease  spots  disappear. 

R  Pros  90 


Laundry  Work. 

In  washing  clothes,  dissolve  pipe-clay  in 
the  water,  a  cent's  worth  to  four  gallons. 
It  will  be  found  to  clean  clothing  with  hall 
the  labor,  and  considerably  less  soap,  while 
the  colors  of  the  clothes  are  improved.  Pe- 
troleum dissolved  in  the  water  is  also  of 
great  utility,  saving  much  of  the  labor  and 
soap  and  yielding  superior  results. 

Chintzes  should  always  be  washed  when 
the  weather  is  dry  and  suflSciently  warm 
not  to  freeze  them.  If  necessary  to  wash 
them  in  wet  or  very  cold  weather,  it  is  bet- 
ter to  dry  by  the  kitchen  fire  than  to  run 
the  risk  of  spoiling  the  colors  by  outdoor 
drying. 

To  Wash  Chenille  Curtains. — Two 
ounces  ether  sulphate,  two  ounces  borax, 
two  ounces  soda,  one  cake  ivory  soap ; 
shave  soap  and  let  dissolve  in  warm  water, 
then  add  all  the  ingredients  to  sufficient 
warm  water  to  wash  curtains  in.  Do  not 
rub  on  board,  but  dash  up  and  down  until 
they  are  thoroughly  clean.  Do  not  wring 
them,  but  squeeze  out  of  the  water,  and 
hang  lengthwise  in  a  shady  place.  Then 
take  a  whisk  broom  and  brush  until  dry. 
Do  not  go  near  the  fire,  as  ether  is  a  danger- 
ous explosive. 

To  Clean  Kid  Qloves  and  Shoes. — An 
easy  way  to  perform  this  is  to  stretch  the 
glove  in  some  way  as  on  the  open  hand, 
and  rub  it  carefully  with  moistened  flannel, 
having  first  placed  a  little  powdered  soap 
on  the  flannel.  After  the  dirt  has  been 
thus  removed,  the  glove  should  be  dried  by 
rubbing  with  dry  flannel. 

To  clean  ladies'  kid  boots,  dip  .a  rag  in 
almond  oil  and  remove  all  the  mud,  drying 
as  you  go,  and  never  leaving  the  leather 
moist.  Polish  with  a  clean  rag  and  more  oil. 
The  dulness  left  by  this  process  may  be  re- 
moved by  rubbing  with  the  palm  of  the 
hand.  Kid  may  be  both  cleaned  and  pre- 
served in  this  manner. 

The  Removal  of  Stains. 

Ink  stains  on  woolen  goods  and  cloth 
may  be  removed  with  oxalic  acid,  diluted, 
or  rubbed  over  with  strong  vinegar,  so  that 
it  may  not  injure  the  stuff.  This  acid  haS; 
however,   the   disadvantage   of  being  very 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


poisonous,  and  must  be  used  with  caution. 
Citric  and  tartaric  acids,  which  are  harm- 
less, and  answer  the  purpose  as  well,  are  to 
be  preferred,  especially  as  they  may  be  used 
on  the  most  delicate  fabrics  without  any 
danger  of  injuring  them.  Thev  may  also 
be  employed  to  remove  marks  of  ink  from 
books,  as  they  do  not  injure  printing-ink, 
into  the  composition  of  which  iron  does  not 
enter. 

lycmon  juice,  milk,  the  juice  of  ripe 
tomatoes,  etc.,  are  good  for  ink  stains  on 
white  goods.  If  the  ink  be  spilt  on  a  carpet 
or  table  cover,  the  stain  should  immediately 
be  rubbed  with  a  moistened  cloth,  the  rub- 
bing being  continued  over  and  beyond  the 
stain  until  the  ink  marks  have  disappeared. 
If  this  be  done  very  promptly,  the  stain  may 
be  entirely  removed.  The  work  may  be 
completed  with  a  second  wet  cloth. 

In  case  the  color  of  the  material  is  de- 
stroyed by  an  acid  used  in  removing  ink 
stains,  or  through  accident,  it  may  be  re- 
stored by  rubbing  the  spot  with  ammonia. 
In  the  case  of  varnish  or  paint  stains,  rub 
with  benzine  or  turpentine.  If  the  stain  is 
old  use  chloroform,  but  be  very  careful  in 
its  use.  To  remove  blood  stains,  saturate 
with  petroleum  and  wash  in  hot  water. 
Grease  spots  from  dripping  candles  may  be 
removed  with  cologne  water. 

Grease  spots  are  the  most  disagreeable 
stains.  They  always  spread,  and  are  more 
offensive  than  others.  Fortunately,  there 
are  many  ways  for  getting  rid  of  them. 

Before  attempting  to  remove  stains  from 
woolen  goods,  place  on  them  a  piece  of 
absorbent  paper,  pass  a  hot  iron  over  it,  and 
then  use  ammonia  and  soapsuds.  Chloro- 
form is  successfully  used,  and  also  a  mix- 
ture of  alcohol  and  ammonia.  These  spots 
may  be  also  dampened  with  ammonia 
water,  and  ironed  under  a  piece  of  white 
paper. 

Rub  the  stain  with  chalk  on  the  wrong 
side  of  the  cloth,  allowing  it  to  remain  on 
all  day.  Many  persons  keep  the  following 
preparation  to  remove  stains  whenever 
needed  :  Make  a  stiff  paste  of  Fuller's  earth 
and  vinegar.  Roll  into  a  ball  and  dry  it. 
To  use  it  scrape  the  ball  on  the  stain,  which 
must  first  be  moistened  ;  allow  it  to  dry,  and 
then  remove  the  stain  with  warm  water. 


Here  are  three  formulae  for  removing 
stains  : 

First.  Essence  of  turpentine,  very  pure,  twen- 
ty-six grams  ;  alcohol  at  forty  degrees,  thirty- one 
grams  ;  sulphuric  ether,  thirty-one  grams  ;  pour 
into  the  bottle,  cork,  and  shake  well.  To  use 
the  mixture,  place  the  material  to  be  cleaned  on 
a  piece  of  thickly  folded  white  cloth.  Wet  the 
stain  thoroughly  with  the  preparation,  and  rub 
lightly  with  a  fine  cloth.  If  the  stain  is  an  old  one, 
warm  the  material. 

Second.  Mix  ammonia  and  ether  and  alcohol, 
in  equal  parts,  thoroughly  ;  place  on  the  stain  a 
piece  of  blotting-paper  ;  moisten  with  a  sponge 
dipped  in  water,  to  make  it  more  absorbent ;  wet 
it  with  the  mixture,  and  rub  the  stain.  It  will 
disappear  in  an  instant. 

The  following  will  remove  a  stain  of  any  kind : 
Pour  into  a  large^necked  bottle  two  quarts  of  pure 
spring  water  ;  add  a  lump  of  ashes  of  old  lees  of 
wine,  about  the  size  of  a  nut,  a  lump  of  potash, 
two  sliced  lemons.  Allow  this  to  stand  for  twenty- 
four  hours.  Filter  the  liquid,  and  keep  in  well- 
corked  bottles.  When  you  wish  to  remove  the 
stain,  wet  it  with  the  preparation,  then  rub  the 
spot  with  fresh  water. 

Marble  and  Furniture  Polish. 

A  good  marble  polish  is  the  following : 
Melt  over  a  slow  fire  four  ounces  of  white  wax, 
and,  while  still  warm,  stir  into  it  an  equal 
weight  of  oil  of  turpentine.  When  these  are 
fully  combined,  put  the  compound  into  a  bot- 
tle or  other  vessel,  which  must  be  kept  well 
corked  when  not  in  use.  A  little  of  the 
above  put  upon  a  piece  of  flannel  and  well 
rubbed  upon  the  marble  will  bring  the  sur- 
face to  a  fine  polish. 

To  polish  furniture,  prepare  white  wax 
and  oil  of  turpentine  as  above  directed.  A 
small  quantity  applied  with  flannel  or  other 
woolen  cloth,  and  well  rubbed  in,  is  excel- 
lent for  mahogany  and  walnut.  If  a  yel- 
lowish tint  is  desiredfor  light-colored  wood,, 
put  into  the  turpentine  in  advance  a  smal. 
quantity  of  quercitron,  or  dyer's  oak,  and 
let  stand  for  two  days.  To  give  a  reddish 
tinge,  a  little  alkanet  may  be  used  in  the 
same  manner  as  the  quercitron. 

For  another  furniture  polish  take  one 
a  half  ounces  each  of  alcohol  and  butter  of 
antimony,  one-half  ounce  of  muriatic  acid, 
eight  ounces  of  linseed  oil,  one-half  pint  of 
cider  vinegar;  mix  these  cold  and  apply 
with  Canton  flannel,  then  rub  with  dry 
Canton  flannel. 


91 


76 


IHE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


Recipes  for  Cleaning. 

Steps  and  Flag=stones. — Where  there 
are  large  flights  of  stone  steps  and  broad 
pavements  of  flag-stones,  the  process  of 
cleaning  is  a  tedious  one.  To  clean  with 
hearthstone,  or  caked  whiting,  as  usual, 
gives  a  smeary  appearance,  and  washes 
off  with  the  first  shower.  The  following 
preparation  is  preferable  alike  for  its  ap- 
pearance and  as  a  labor  saving  appliance, 
as  it  need  be  used  but  twice  a  week, 
washing  being  sufficient  for  the  remaining 
days  :  Take  a  gallon  of  water,  and  color 
with  stone-blue  to  a  deep  tint.  Boil  in 
this  a  pound  of  white  size,  and  dissolve  in 
the  mixture  a  quarter  pound  of  whiting  and 
three  cakes  of  pipe-clay,  stirring  well.  Wash 
the  steps  rapidly  with  this  solution,  and 
finish  with  clean  water  in  the  usual  way. 

Damp  Walls. — Damp  walls  may  be  dealt 
with  in  the  following  manner  :  Mix  two 
quarts  of  tar  with  two  ounces  of  kitchen 
fat,  and  boil  together  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Then  add  some  slaked  lime  and  very 
finely  pounded  glass.  The  lime  and  glass 
must  be  in  the  proportion  of  two  to  one,  and 
thoroughly  mixed.  Apply  immediately,  as 
the  mixture  soon  sets  and  becomes  hard.  A 
coat  an  inch  thick  will  usually  quite  over- 
come the  dampness,  though  in  extreme  cases 
two  coats  may  be  necessary. 

To  Clean  Soiled  or  Stained  Furniture. 
— Use  spirits  of  turpentine,  and  afterwards 
polish  with  linseed  oil  colored  with  alkanet 
root.  If,  however,  the  furniture  is  badly 
stained  or  inky,  it  should  be  washed  with 
sour  beer  or  vinegar,  warm.  Afterwards 
rub  the  stains  with  spirit  of  salts,  which 
will  remove  them.  The  wood  may  then  be 
polished,  with  linseed  oil  colored  with 
alkanet  root,  or  with  beeswax,  dissolved  in 
turpentine,  with  a  little  copal  varnish  or 
resin  added . 

New  mahogany  may  be  given  the  dark 
tint  of  old  by  washing  with  various  sub- 
stances. Soap  and  water  will  darken  some- 
what, but  oil  is  more  efficacious  ;  if  a  very 
dark  tint  is  desired  use  lime  water. 

Paint  may  be  cleaned  with  the  following 
preparation  :  Mix  one  pound  of  soft  soap, 
two  ounces  of  pearlash,  one  pint  of  sand  and 
one  of  table  beer.  Let  these  simmer  together 


till  fully  incorporated,  and  use  the  mixture 
in  the  manner  of  soap. 

Another  cleaning  mixture  may  be  made 
by  grating  four  potatoes  to  a  pulp  and  mix- 
ing with  a  quart  of  water.  After  stirring, 
let  the  pulp  settle  and  pour  off  the  water. 
This  must  be  applied  with  a  sponge. 

To  Clean  Decanters  and  Water-bottles, 

When  these,  from  containing  hard  water 
for  a  considerable  time,  have  become  coated 
in  the  interior  with  a  deposit  of  carbon- 
ate of  lime  and  other  impurities,  the  easiest 
way  is  to  use  about  a  teaspoonful  of  hydro- 
chloric acid,  rinsing  the  bottle  with  it. 
It  will  be  found  that  the  instant  the  acid 
comes  in  contact  with  the  deposit  it  removes 
it,  a  clear  solution  of  chloride  of  calcium 
being  formed.  The  bottle  should  then  be 
rinsed  in  plenty  of  clean  water.  After  a  de- 
canter has  held  port  or  other  wines  for  a 
long  period,  a  deposit  of  coloring  matter 
will  cover  the  interior  surface  of  the  glass. 
This  may  be  easily  cleaned  off  by  a  little 
sulphuric  acid,  in  the  manner  above  de- 
scribed. 

Cleaning  Copper  Utensils, — These  can 
be  given  a  clean,  bright  surface  by  the  use 
of  nitric  acid.  The  desired  surface  is  thus 
obtained  quickly  and  with  little  trouble. 
But  there  is  the  objection  that  a  consider- 
able quantity  of  nitrous  fumes  are  given 
off,  and  these  red  vapors  are  at  once  ex- 
tremely disagreeable,  and  very  prejudicial 
to  health.  Their  production  may  be  pre- 
vented by  adding  a  little  solution  of  bichro- 
mate of  potash  to  the  dilute  nitric  acid. 
This  is  found  to  answer  perfectly,  the 
copper  surface  being  made  clean  and  bright, 
without  disengagement  of  vapors. 

To  Clean  and  Brighten  Brussels  Car- 
pets.— Take  a  fresh  beef-gall,  break  it  into 
a  clean  pan  ;  pour  one-half  into  a  very 
clean  bucket,  and  nearly  fill  it  with  luke- 
warm water  ;  take  a  clean,  coarse  cloth,  and, 
having  brushed  the  carpet  well,  rub  it  hard 
with  the  cloth  thoroughly  wet  with  gall- 
water  ;  do  a  small  piece  at  a  time  ;  have 
ready  a  dry  coarse  cloth,  and  rub  the  carpet 
dry  ;  so  proceed  until  the  whole  carpet  is 
cleaned.  A  few  drops  of  carbonate  of  am- 
monia, in  a  small  quantity  of  warm  rain' 


92 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


77 


water,  will  change,  if  carefully  applied,  dis- 
colored spots  upon  carpets,  and  indeed  all 
spots,  whether  produced  by  acids  or  alkalies. 
If  one  has  the  misfortune  to  have  a  carpet 
injured  by  whitewash,  this  will  immediately 
restore  it. 

Another  recipe  iox  cleaning  carpets  is  two 
and  one-half  bars  Ivory  soap,  one  half-pound 
powdered  borax,  one- fourth  ounce  glycer- 
ine ;  shave  soap  fine,  put  in  four  gallons  soft 
water ;  heat  till  dissolved,  then  let  cool 
enough  to  use. 

Grease  on  a  carpet,  if  not  of  long-stand- 
ing, can  be  readily  disposed  of  by  washing 
the  spot  with  hot  soapsuds  and  borax — half 
an  ounce  of  borax  to  a  gallon  of  water. 
Use  a  clean  cloth  to  wash  it  with,  rinse  in 
warm  water,  and  wipe  dry. 

To  Clean  Paper=Hangings.  Take  small 
pieces  of  stale  bread,  about  two  days  old, 
commence  at  the  top  of  the  room ,  and  with  the 
crust  wipe  lightly  downward  about  half  a  yard 
at  each  stroke,  till  the  upper  part  of  the  hang- 
ings is  completely  cleaned  all  around,  and 
so  continue  until  the  whole  is  gone  over. 
This  operation,  if  carefully  performed,  will 
frequently  make  old  paper  look  almost  equal 
to  new.  Great  caution  must  be  used  not  to 
rub  the  paper  hard,  nor  to  attempt  cleaning 
it  the  cross  or  horizontal  way.  The  dirty 
part  of  the  bread  must  each  time  be  cut 
away,  and  the  piece  renewed  as  often  as 
necessary. 

To  Extract  'irense from  Papered  Walls. 
— Dip  a  piece  of  flannel  in  spirits  of  wine, 
rub  the  greasy  spots  gently  once  or  twice, 
and  the  grease  will  disappear. 

Oill=Marks  on  wall-paper,  or  the  marks 
where  inconsiderate  people  rest  their  heads, 
are  a  sore  grief  to  good  housekeepers,  but 
they  can  be  removed  without  much  trouble. 
Take  pipe-clay  or  fuller's  earth  and  make  it 
into  a  paste  about  as  thick  as  rich  cream 
with  cold  water  ;  lay  it  on  the  stain  gently, 
without  rubbing  it  in  ;  leave  it  on  all  night. 
It  will  be  dry  by  morning,  when  it  can  be 
brushed  off,  and,  unless  an  old  stain,  the 
grease-spots  will  have  disappeared.  If  old, 
renew  the  application. 

To  Remove  Stains  in  Tables. — Wash 
the  surface  with  stale  beer  or  vinegar  ;  the 


93 


stains  may  then  be  removed  by  rubbing  them 
with  a  rag  dipped  in  spirits  of  salts.  To  re- 
polish,  proceed  as  you  would  do  with  new 
work.  If  the  work  be  not  stained,  wash  the 
surface  with  clean  spirits  of  turpentine,  and 
repolish  it  with  furniture  oil. 

To  Clean  Paint,  smear  it  over  with 
whiting  mixed  to  the  consistency  of  com- 
mon paste  in  warm  water.  Rub  the  surface 
to  be  cleaned  briskly,  and  wash  off  with  pure, 
cold  water.  Grease  spots  will  in  this  way 
be  almost  instantly  removed,  as  well  as 
other  filth,  and  the  paint  will  retain  its  bril- 
liancy and  beauty  unimpaired. 

Removal  of  Dry  Putty. — The  difficulty 
of  removing  hard  putty  from  a  window-sash 
can  be  obviated  with  great  readiness  by 
simply  applying  a  piece  of  heated  metal, 
such  as  a  soldering-iron  or  other  similar  im- 
plement. When  heated  (but  not  red  hot), 
the  iron  is  to  be  passed  slowly  over  the  putty, 
thereby  rendering  the  latter  so  soft  that  it 
can  be  cut  or  scraped  off  without  difficulty. 

To  Clean  Straw  flatting. — Wash  as 
seldom  as  possible,  but  when  it  is  necesssry 
to  do  so  use  salt  and  water.  Salt  prevents 
the  matting  from  turning  yellow.  Dry  as 
fast  as  you  wash,  and  wash  but  a  little  at  a 
time. 

To  Remove  Mold  from  Fabrics. — Rub 
them  over  with  butter,  and  then  apply  pot- 
ash moistened  in  a  little  water,  and  rub  the 
spot  until  all  traces  of  it  disappear ;  then 
wash  in  plenty  of  water  to  take  out  the  pot- 
ash ;  or  the  moldy  spot  may  be  wetted  with 
yellow  sulphide  of  ammonia,  by  which  it 
will  be  immediately  blackened.  After  a 
couple  of  minutes  wash  it  off,  and  remove 
the  black  stain  with  cold,  weak  chlorohydric 
acid  ;  then  wash  well  with  warmish  water. 

Cleansing  Picture  Frames.  —  Black 
walnut  frames  will  become  dull  and  rusty- 
looking.  They  may  be  renewed  by  first 
brushing  thoroughly  with  a  stiff  brush  to  re- 
move dust,  and  then  applying  pure  linseed 
oil  with  a  proper  brush  ;  in  the  absence  of  a 
brush,  a  piece  of  new  bleached  muslin  will 
answer  the  purpose. 

To  Clean  Mirrors,  Looking=Qlasses, 
Etc. — Take  a  soft  sponge,  wash  it  well  in 
clean    water,    and    squeeze    it   as     dry    as 


78 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


possible  ;  dip  it  into  some  spirits  of  wine  and 
rub  over  the  glass  ;  then  have  some  powder- 
blue  tied  up  in  a  rag,  dust  it  over  your 
glass,  and  rub  it  lightly  and  quickly  with  a 
soft  cloth  ;  afterward  finish  with  a  silk  hand- 
kerchief. 

To  Take  Stains  Out  of  Harble.— Mix 
unslaked  lime  in  finest  powder  with  the 
strongest  soap-lye,  pretty  thick,  and  in- 
stantly with  a  painter's  brush  lay  it  on  the 
whole  of  the  marble.  In  two  months'  time 
wash  it  off  perfectly  clean  ;  then  have  ready 
a  fine  thick  lather  of  soft  soap,  boiled  in 
soft  water ;  dip  a  brush  in  it  and  scour  the 
marble.  This  will,  with  very  good  rubbing, 
give  a  beautiful  polish. 

To  Take  Iron  Stains  Out  of  flarble. — 

An  equal  quantity  of  fresh  spirits  of  vitriol 
and  lemon-juice  being  mixed  in  a  bottle, 
shake  it  well ;  wet  the  spots,  and  in  a  few 
minutes  rub  with  soft  linen  till  they  dis- 
appear. 

Marble  can  be  nicely  cleaned  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner  :  Pulverize  a  little  bluestone, 
and  mix  with  four  ounces  of  whiting  ;  add 
to  these  four  ounces  of  soft  soap  and  one 
ounce  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  very  little 
water.  Boil  this  preparation  over  a  slow 
fire  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time. 
L,ay  it  on  the  marble  while  hot  with  a  clean 
brush.  Let  it  remain  half  an  hour ;  then 
wash  off  in  clean  suds,  wipe  dry,  and  polish 
by  quick  rubbing.  If  marble  is  smoked  or 
soiled,  either  by  bituminous  coal  or  too  free 
use  of  kindling  wood,  Spanish  whiting  with 
a  piece  of  washing  soda,  rubbed  together 
and  wet  with  only  enough  water  to  moisten 
and  make  them  into  a  paste,  will  remove  the 
grease  and  smoke.  Dip  a  piece  of  flannel  in 
this  preparation  and  rub  the  spots  while  the 
paste  is  quite  moist.  Leave  the  paste  on  for 
hours,  and,  if  need  be,  remove  it  and  renew 
with  fresh  paste.  When  the  spots  disappear, 
wash  the  place  with  clean  hot  soapsuds, 
wipe  dry,  and  polish  with  chamois  skin. 

To  Take  Bruises  Out  of  Furniture. — 

Wet  the  part  with  warm  water ;  double  a 
piece  of  brown  paper  five  or  six  times,  soak 
it  and  lay  it  on  the  place  ;  apply  on  that  a 
hot  flat-iron  till  the  moisture  is  evaporated. 
If  the  bruise  be  not  gone,  repeat  the  process 


After  two  or  three  applications  the  dent  oi 
bruise  will  be  raised  level  with  the  surface. 

Lamp=Chimneys  can  be  prevented  from 
cracking,  when  exposed  to  the  burning 
flame,  by  first  placing  them  in  a  vessel  of 
cold  water  and  bringing  this  to  a  boil  over 
the  fire,  then  removing  the  vessel  and  allow- 
ing it  to  cool  before  taking  out  the  cylinder. 

To  Remove  Glass  Stoppers. — When  the 
stopper  of  a  glass  decanter  is  too  tight,  a 
cloth  wet  with  hot  water  and  applied  to  the 
neck  will  cause  the  glass  to  expand,  and 
the  stopper  may  be  removed.  In  a  phial 
the  warmth  of  the  finger  may  be  sufficient. 

Household  Pests. 

To  Destroy  Crickets  or  Roaches. — Put 

some  strong  snuff  in  the  cracks  and  holes 
in  which  they  hide.  The  parings  of  cucum- 
bers will,  if  strewn  about  near  their  holes, 
drive  them  away.  Roaches  devour  greedily 
flour  paste,  and  die  while  eating  it,  if  into 
half  a  pint  of  it,  while  hot,  a  dime's  worth 
of  phosphorus  is  stirred  with  a  stick. 

To  Destroy  Flies. — Take  strong  green 
tea,  sweetened  well,  and  set  in  saucers  about 
the  places  where  they  are  most  numerous. 
To  destroy  them  in  this  way  is  preferable  to 
the  use  of  fly-papers,  which  catch  the  insects 
alive,  and  cause  them  to  die  a  slow  death. 

Rat  Poison. — A  tasteless,  odorless,  and 
infallible  rat  poison  is  made  as  follows : 
Mix  carbonate  of  barytes,  two  ounces,  with 
grease,  one  pound.  It  produces  great  thirst, 
consequently  water  must  be  set  by  it,  for 
death  takes  place  immediately  after  drink- 
ing, not  giving  them  time  to  go  back  to 
their  holes.  Be  sure  no  other  animal  can 
get  at  it,  except  rats  and  mice,  for  it  is  a 
most  deadly  poison. 

Persian  Insect  Powder  is  an  unfailing 
bed-bug  poison.  It  is  not  poisonous,  but 
none  the  less  is  sure  death  to  all  insects.  It 
is  blown  with  an  insect  gun  into  all  cracks, 
crevices,  and  places  where  bugs  can  find  an 
entrance.  This  has  been  tried  and  found  to 
be  efficacious  in  hundreds  of  instances.  To 
wash  bedsteads  with  coal  oil  will  also  clear 
them  of  bugs. 

To  Get  Rid  of  Ants.-  -Wash  your  shelves 
dow»  glean,  and  while  damp  rub  fine  salt 


9-^ 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


79 


on  them  quite  thick  ;  let  it  remain  on  them 
for  some  time,  and  red  ants  will  disappear. 

Another  remedy  for  ants  may  be  made 
of  half  a  pound  flour  of  sulphur  and  four 
ounces  potash.  Put  them  over  the  fire  in 
an  earthen  pan  till  they  dissolve  and  unite. 
When  cold,  beat  them  to  a  powder,  put  a 
little  of  this  into  water,  and  sprinkle  the  in- 
fested places.     The  ants  will  leave. 

An  Insect  Remedy. — Dissolve  two  ounces 
ot  alum  in  three  or  four  quarts  of  water, 
letting  it  remain  over  night,  until  the  alum 
is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Then  apply  it, 
boiling  hot,  with  a  brush,  to  every  joint  or 
crevice  that  is  infested  by  ants,  roaches, 
bed-bugs,  etc.  Brush  all  the  cracks  in  the 
floor  and  mop-boards.  Keep  it  boiling  hot 
while  using. 

Rats  and  Mosquitoes. — A  bottle  of  the 
oil  of  pennyroyal,  left  uncorked  in  a  room 
at  night,  will  dispose  of  mosquitoes.  Not 
one  will  be  found  in  the  morning.  Rats 
may  be  dealt  with  by  mixing  potash  with 
meal  and  throwing  it  into  their  holes.  If  a 
rat  or  a  mouse  gets  into  the  pantry,  stuff 
into  its  hole  a  rag  saturated  with  cayenne 
pepper.  That  pathway  to  the  pantry  will 
be  deserted. 

Other  Recipes. 

A  Simple  Disinfectant. — Put  into  a 
saucer  some  fresh-ground  coffee,  and  in  its 
centre  place  a  small  piece  of  gum  camphor, 
which  set  on  fire  with  a  match.  As  it 
burns  add  coffee  enough  to  burn  with  it. 
It  gives  a  very  pleasant  perfume,  much 
more  agreeable  than  that  of  pas  tiles,  and  it 
is  much  cheaper. 

Glass  and  China  Cement. — Curdle  a 
half  pint  of  milk  with  the  same  quantity  of 
vinegar  ;  separate  the  curd  from  the  whey, 
and  mix  the  latter  with  the  whites  of  four 
or  five  eggs,  beating  them  well  together. 
Add  a  little  quicklime,  through  a  sieve,  to 
make  a  thick  paste.  This  cement  dries 
quickly  and  resists  the  action  of  fire  and 
water. 

Another  cement  may  be  made  by  stirring 
plaster  of  Paris  into  a  thick  solution  of  gum 
arable,  bringing  it  to  the  consistency  of 
cream.  This  is  white  in  color  and  is  very 
well  adapted  to  mend  china.  After  three 
days  it  cannot  be  broken  in  the  same  place. 


95 


Still  another  is  made  of  four  ounces  of 
crushed  orange-shellac,  and  three  of  strong 
rectified  spirits  of  wine  or  wood  naphtha. 
The  spirits  of  wine  is  preferable.  Dissolve 
the  shellac  in  the  spirits,  in  a  corked  bottle 
kept  in  a  warm  place.  The  process  is  aided 
by  shaking,  and  the  composition  must  be 
shaken  before  using.  It  can  be  used  as  a 
varnish  for  unpainted  wood. 

To  mend  glassware,  dissolve  boiled  isin- 
glass in  spirits  of  wine,  half  the  quantity  of 
spirits  being  added  to  the  isinglass.  This 
is  a  transparent  cement,  which  makes  it 
very  suitable  for  mending  glassware. 

Cracks  in  Floors. — These  may  be  filled 
neatly  and  permanently  by  thoroughly  soak- 
ing newspapers  in  paste  made  of  half  a 
pound  of  flour,  three  quarts  of  water  and 
half  a  pound  of  alum.  The  mixture  will 
be  about  as  thick  as  putty.  It  can  be  forced 
into  the  cracks  with  a  case-knife,  and 
smoothed  on  top.  It  will  harden  like 
papier-mache. 

Cracks  in  Plaster. — A  good  filling  is 
plaster  of  Paris  mixed  with  vinegar,  which 
will  not  set  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes, 
while  water  will  set  very  quickly,  often  be- 
fore you  can  use  it.  The  putty-like  mass 
must  be  pushed  into  the  cracks,  and  can  be 
smoothed  off  evenly  with  a  table-knife. 

To  Prevent  Mold.— Add  to  paste,  ink, 
mucilage,  or  other  substance  liable  to 
mold,  a  little  carbolic  acid.  An  ounce  of 
this  acid  to  a  gallon  of  whitewash  will  keep 
cellars  and  dairies  from  the  disagreeable 
odor  which  is  apt  to  taint  milk  or  meat  in 
such  places. 

To  preserve  glasses  of  jelly  from  mold, 
lay  on  the  top  of  the  jelly  a  piece  of  paraf- 
fine,  and  let  it  melt  and  spread  over  it.  Or 
the  parafiine  can  be  melted  and  poured  over 
the  jelly  when  cold.  This  renders  unnec- 
essary brandy-paper  or  other  covering. 

Spots    on    Furniture    and    Fabrics. — 

These  may  be  removed  by  a  wash  of  four 
ounces  of  ammonia,  one  ounce  each  of 
glycerine,  castile  soap,  and  spirits  of  wine. 
The  soap  must  be  dissolved  in  two  quarts 
of  warm  water,  and  the  other  ingredients 
added.  Apply  with  a  soft  sponge.  This 
wash  is  very  good  for  silks. 


8o 


THE  MODEL  COOK  BOOK 


Another  furniture  wash  may  be  made  by 
mixing  a  half  pint  of  95  per  cent,  alcohol, 
a  quarter  ounce  each  of  powdered  resin  and 
gum  shellac,  and  a  half  pint  of  linseed  oil. 
Shake  these  well  together  and  apply  with  a 
brush  or  sponge  to  stains,  spots,  or  mildew. 

To  Freshen  Gilt  Frames. — Dust  care- 
fully, then  wash  with  one  ounce  of  soda 
beaten  up  with  the  whites  of  three  eggs. 
Where  scratched,  patch  up  with  gold  paint. 
To  clean  oil  paintings  use  castile  soap  and 
water,  very  carefully  applied. 

Gilt  may  also  be  brightened  by  adding 
to  a  pint  or  two  of  water  sufficient  flour  of 
sulphur  to  give  it  a  golden  tinge.  In  this 
boil  four  or  five  onions,   or  a  quantity  of 


garlic.  Strain  off  the  liquid,  and  wash  the 
gilding  with  a  soft  brush.  When  dry  it 
will  look  like  new  work. 

To  Take  Out  Paint. — Mix  ammonia 
and  turpentine  in  equal  parts,  saturate  the 
spot  two  or  three  times,  and  wash  out  with 
soapsuds.  This  will  take  out  paint  from 
clothing  even  if  dry  and  hard.  Paint  spots 
on  window  glass  can  be  removed  with  ten 
cents'  worth  of  oxalic  acid  dissolved  in  a 
pint  of  hot  water.  While  applying  it  to  the 
spots,  take  care  that  the  acid  does  not  touch 
the  hands.  Brasses  may  be  quickly  cleaned 
with  this  wash  ;  but  it  must  not  be  kept 
after  using,  as  it  is  a  deadly  poison. 


BRIEF  RECIPES  FOR  HOUSEKEEPERS 


A  little  quicklime  placed  in  the  infested  places 
will  drive  away  any  kind  of  ants. 

Burning  sulphur  in  a  tightly-closed  room  will 
kill  almost  all  kinds  of  insect  life  and  their  eggs 
and  larvae. 

How  to  Make  Leather  Waterproof. — Saturate 
it  with  castor  oil ;  to  stop  shoes  squeaking,  drive  a 
ppg  into  the  middle  of  the  sole. 

How  to  Wash  Colored  Calicoes. — Dissolve  5 
cents'  worth  of  sugar  of  lead  in  3  to  4  quarts  of  pure 
water  (rain-water  is  best),  and,  after  the  garments 
are  washed  and  rinsed,  let  them  be  dipped  in  and 
wrung  out ;  it  sets  the  color  and  keeps  it. 

How  to  Remove  Tar  from  Cloth. — Rub  it  well 
with  turpentine,  and  every  trace  of  tar  will  be 
removed. 

How  to  Set  the  Color  in  Lawn. — Dissolve  a 
half-pound  of  saltpetre  in  a  pailful  of  water,  and 
dip  the  lawn  in  it  several  times  before  washing. 

How  to  Remove  Egg  Stains  from  Spoons. — 
Rub  with  common  salt. 

Hozu  to  Remove  the  Stains  of  Fruit  from  the 
Hands. — Wash  your  hands  in  clear  water,  dry 
slightly,  and  while  yet  moist,  strike  a  sulphur 
match  and  hold  your  hands  around  the  flame.  The 
stains  will  immediately  disappear. 

How  to  Clean  Furniture. — Rul)  with  cotton 
waste,  dipped  in  boiled  linseed  oil  ;  then  rub  clean 
and  dry  with  a  soft  flannel  cloth. 

How  to  Test  'whether  an  .-h-tiLle  is  Gilt  or 
Made  of  a  Cold-colored  Alloy. — A  solution  of  bi- 
chloride of  copper  makes  a  brown  spot  on  alloy, 
but  produces  no  effect  on  a  surface  of  gold. 

How  to  Restore  Gilt  Frames. — Rub  with  a 
sponge  moistened  in  turpentine. 

How  to  Clean  Gloves. — Pour  a  little  benzine 
into  a  basin  and  wash  the  gloves  in  it,  rubbing  and 
squeezing  them  until  clean.  If  much  soiled,  they 
must  be  washed  through  clean  benzine,  and  rinsed 
in  a  fresh  supply.     Hang  up  iu  the  air  to  dry. 


96 


Hoiu  to  Clean  Hair  Brushes. — Dissolve  a  little 
soda  in  warm  water,  and  pour  in  a  small  amount  of 
ammonia.  Hold  the  brushes  with  the  bristles 
downward,  and  avoid  wetting  the  back  as  far  as 
possible  ;  shake  until  the  grease  is  removed.  Then 
rinse  in  cold  water,  and  put  in  the  air  to  dry. 

How  to  Clean  Hair. — Wash  well  with  a  mix- 
ture of  soft  water,  i  pint  ;  sal-soda,  i  ounce  ;  cream 
tartar,  %  ounce. 

How  to  Remove  Stains  from  Linen. — Wet  the 
part  stained,  and  lay  on  it  some  salt  of  wormwood; 
then  rub  without  diluting  it  with  more  water. 

How  to  Remove  Mildew  from,  Cloth. — Put  a 
teaspoonful  of  chloride  of  lime  into  a  quart  of  water, 
strain  it  twice,  then  dip  the  mildewed  places  in  this 
weak  solution  ;  lay  in  the  sun.  If  the  mildew  has 
not  disappeared  when  dry,  repeat. 

Hozv  to  Cure  Mosquito  Bites. — Put  10  drops  of 
refined  carbolic  acid  into  an  ounce  of  rose  water ; 
shake  well,  and  apply  as  needed.  If  you  hold  your 
breath  when  a  mosquito  has  its  bill  in  you  it  can- 
not withdraw  it  until  you  breathe  again. 

How  to  Remove  Paint  from  Dress  Goods. — 
When  the  color  of  a  fabric  has  been  destroyed  by 
an  acid,  ammonia  is  applied  to  neutralize  the  same; 
after  which  an  application  of  chloroform  will,  in 
almost  all  cases,  restore  the  original  color. 

Hozv  to  Color  Dress  Goods  Red. — i  ounce  of 
cochineal,  i  ounce  of  muriate  of  tin,  and  a  little 
cream  of  tartar  for  each  pound  of  goods,  dissolved 
in  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Boil  the  goods  in 
this  dye  10  minutes.     Hang  up  to  dry. 

How  to  Remove  a  Rusty  Sc^ew. — Apply  a  red- 
hot  iron  to  the  head  for  a  short  time,  the  screw- 
driver being  applied  immediately  while  the  screw 
is  hot. 

Hoiu  to  Prevent  Starch  from  Souring  when 
Boiled.— A.Adi  a  litlle  sulphate  of  copper. 


A  QUIET  LULLABY. 

"  Beat  upon  mine,  little  heart!   heat,  heat! 
Beat  upon  mine!   you  are  mine,  my  sweet! 
All  mine  from  your  pretty  hlue  eyes  to  your  feet. 
My  sweet!'' 


BOOK  II. 

ATTRACTIVE 
HOME  DECORATIONS 

Every  woman  should  desire  her  house  to  be  as  comfortable  and  as  beau- 
tiful as  her  taste  and  means  will  permit.  This  department  will  be  welcomed 
joyfully  by  every  housewife.  It  shows  how  to  make  common  things  serve 
a  double  purpose  of  decoration  as  well  as  usefulness,  with  very  little  expendi- 
ture either  of  time  or  money.  There  are  here  also  instructions  for  decorating 
the  house  suitably  for  various  occasions,  directions  for  doing  fancy  work  of 
various  kinds  in  leisure  hours,  and  taking  care  of  pet  animals,  plants,  etc.,  in 
the  house.  This  department  lifts  the  whole  work  out  of  the  ordinary  class 
of  household  reference  books,  and  appeals  in  a  healthful  way  to  the  beauty- 
loving  instincts  of  every  woman. 


ATTRACTIVE 
HOME  DECORATIONS 

SOME  COMMON  THINGS  MADE  BEAUTIFUL— CHEAP  AND  EASY 
METHODS  FOR  HOME  USE 


The  growing  love  for  artistically  attrac- 
tive rooms,  in  cases  where  the  purse  does 
not  permit  free  application  to  the  uphol- 
sterer or  the  domestic  art  establishment, 
)eads  to  many  ingenious  devices  to  bring 
beauty  out  of  homeliness,  and  to  produce 
both  from  cast-off  and  useless  lumber,  and 
material  of  more  value,  articles  of  ornament 
for  parlor  or  chamber ;  while  the  skill  in 
knitting,  crocheting,  and  other  arts  of  the 
fingers  possessed  by  many  ladies  aids  im- 
mensely in  converting  homely  rooms  into 
charming  and  attractive  ones.  It  is  pro- 
posed here  to  give  some  examples  of  deco- 
rations both  of  the  homely  and  the  more 
expensive  order,  which  may  serve  as  useful 
suggestions  for  many  other  articles  made 
from  materials  in  the  possession  of  our 
readers,  or  in  accordance  with  their  tastes 
and  the  means  at  their  command. 

A  Rustic  Rug  — Even  such  homely  stuff 
as  the  coarse  material  of  a  coffee  bag,  or 
coarse  sacking  of  any  description,  may  be 
made  into  an  attractive  rug  in  the  manner 
here  described  : 

Cut  the  stuff  to  the  shape  required. 
Then,  having  prepared  strips  of  woolen 
material  half  an  inch  wide,  darn  them  with 
a  coarse  needle  in  and  out  through  the  sack- 
ing, leaving  between  each  strip  loops  an 
inch  in  height.  The  colors  of  the  wool  may 
be  diversified  according  to  taste.  For  in- 
stance, there  may  be  a  black  border,  with  a 
centre  of  a  single  shade,  or  of  a  variety  of 
bright  colors. 

29  R  99 


After  the  work  is  ended,  the  whole  sur- 
face may  be  clipped  evenly.  A  very  tasty 
rug  can  be  made  in  this  simple  and  easy 
manner. 

A  Simple  Wardrobe. — A  wardrobe  of 
attractive  appearance  can  be  made  by  any 
one  of  ordinary  ingenuity.  To  do  so  take 
two  boards  a  foot  wide  and  five  feet  high. 
Place  these  the  distance  apart  desired  for 
the  width  of  the  wardrobe,  and  connect  them 
with  similar  boards  top  and  bottom,  mak- 
ing an  improvised  open  framework.  Cast- 
ers shouLl  be  placed  in  the  four  bottom 
corners,  and  brass  rings  screwed  into  each 
end  of  the  top  board. 

Next  prepare  a  pair  of  curtains  sulE- 
ciently  wide  and  long,  hem  the  top,  slip  a 
brass  wire  through  the  hem,  and  pass  the 
ends  of  the  wires  through  the  rings,  letting 
the  curtains  fall  to  the  floor.  The  side- 
boards of  the  wardrobe  can  be  stained  or 
treated  in  any  way  desired.  Finally,  ward- 
robe hooks  can  be  procured  and  screwed 
into  the  upper  board. 

Bookcase,  —  A  bookcase  suitable  for 
ordinary  purposes  may  be  improvised  from 
an  old  bureau  which  has  lost  its  mirror,  by 
placing  above  it  a  set  of  shelves,  made  by 
two  upright  boards  screwed  to  the  sides  of 
the  bureau,  and  two  or  three  cross  ones. 
Paint  and  brass  handles  will  serve  to  make 
the  old  bureau  look  new.  By  screwing  brass 
rings  into  the  ends  of  the  top  shelf  and  slip- 
ping a  rod  through  them,  curtains  may  be 
hung  of  any  stuff  preferred. 


HOME  DECORATIONS 


riantelpiece. — Many  houses  still  contain 
the  high,  old-fashioned,  wooden  mantel- 
pieces, painted  to  imitate  yellow-graincvi 
black  marble,  and  a  sore  aflQiction  to  the  eyes. 
A  little  paint  may  convert  an  eye  sore  into  an 
ornament.  Ebonize  the  entire  surface,  and 
paint  a  spray  of  flowers  in  each  panel,  taking 
care  to  select  blossoms  whose  tints  harmon- 
ize with  the  decorations  of  the  room.  In  a 
chamber  furnished  with  white  and  blue,  a 
mantelpiece  of  this  kind  would  be  pretty 
painted  white,  with  the  panels  outlined  in 
blue.  If  desired,  some  geometrical  design 
or  figure  in  outline  can  be  painted  in  each 
panel.  Above  the  mantelpiece  fasten  two 
shelves,  the  upper  one  shorter  than  the 
lower,  supporting  them  on  brackets.  In 
this  manner  a  very  unsightly  mantel  may 
be  converted  into  a  very  pretty  and  at- 
tractive one. 

Screen. — If  your  house  is  small  and  your 
family  large,  a  folding-screen  in  each  bedroom 
is  an  important  addition.  Very  pretty  and 
inexpensive  ones  may  be  made  by  covering  a 
wooden  frame  with  coarse  canvas,  and  on 
this  arranging  pictures  cut  from  illustrated 
papers.  When  the  canvas  is  entirely  cov- 
ered, varnish  the  whole,  and  be  happy  in 
the  knowledge  that  you  have  ad  ied  a  use- 
ful adjunct  to  your  bedroom  furniture,  as 
well,  perhaps,  as  provided  hours  of  amuse- 
ment for  sick  children  in  hunting  out  the 
various  pictures. 

Window  Draperies. — A  novel  and  pretty 
window  curtain  has  been  made  easily  and 
cheaply  by  the  practice  of  a  little  taste  and 
ingenuity.  Its  material  was  the  yellow  silk 
ribbon  which  is  used  to  tie  bundles  of  cigars. 
This  was  made  into  squares,  which  were 
joined  together  by  bands  of  antique  lace  in- 
sertion until  the  full  length  was  reached. 
The  top  and  bottom  were  then  hemmed,  and 
the  lower  end  ornamented  with  a  border  of 
white  lace  and  a  row  of  fringe. 

nirrors — If  through  ill-fortune  a  look- 
ing-glass is  broken,  it  is  easy  to  utilize  its 
larger  fragments.  These  may  be  cut  into 
square  or  diamond  shape,  and  inserted  in 
plush  frames,  or  painted  or  gilded  wooden 
frames.  Thus  utilized,  a  misfortune  may  be 
converted  into  an  advantage  in  decoration. 


Sofa  Pillows. 

Where  there  are  easy-chairs,  and  sofas, 
or  lounges,  a  beautiful  sofa  pillow  adds 
much  to  the  effect  in  the  decoration  of  a 
room.  There  should  be  a  plentiful  supply 
of  these  useful  articles,  as  they  afford  oppor- 
tunities for  ladies  to  exercise  their  ingenuity 
in  working  out  beautiful  designs.  These 
vary,  from  the  plain  pillow  made  of  denim, 
with  cord  at  the  edges,  both  for  finish  and 
for  durability,  to  the  more  expensive  plush 
and  silk  pillows  worked  with  the  needle. 
Ordinary  butchers'  linen  may  be  taken,  a 
square  design  of  drawn  work  made  in  the 
centre,  and  a  ruffle  may  be  made  around  the 
edges  of  red  and  white  taffeta  ribbon  in 
alternate  rows.  The  back  of  the  pillow 
may  also  be  of  linen. 

A  sofa  pillow  may  also  be  made  of  crim- 
son denim,  with  dark  blue  fleur-de-lis  em- 
broidered upon  it  in  dark  blue  silk,  which 
may  be  finished  with  a  crimson  cord.  The 
back  should  be  made  of  dark  blue  denim. 
This  cover  describes  one  which  would 
answer  for  a  Pennsylvania  University.  Other 
colors  may  be  used  to  represent  any  other 
college.  Inexpensive  sofa  pillows  may  also 
be  made  of  huck  toweling  embroidered  in 
wash  silks  in  white,  pink,  light  green,  light 
and  dark  yellow,  and  black.  A  ruffle  may 
be  added  of  bright  red  silk,  and  the  back  of 
the  pillow  made  of  toweling.  A  very  inex- 
pensive sofa  pillow  may  be  made  of  squares 
of  silk,  ribbon  and  velvet,  each  square 
slightly  padded  to  give  a  raised  eSect.  The 
edges  of  the  pillow  may  be  finished  with 
narrow  ruffles  or  silk  cord.  This  variety  of 
pillows  offers  great  opportunity  for  ingenu- 
ity in  using  remnants  of  silk  and  velvet,  and 
they  are  deservedly  popular. 

Quite  an  attractive  pillow  may  be  made 
of  white  linen,  on  which  autographs  of 
friends  or  of  a  class  may  be  written  in  lead 
pencil,  and  outlined  in  several  shades  of 
green  embroidery  silk,  or  any  other  color 
whic^.  suits  the  fancy  of  the  designer.  The 
pillow  may  be  square  or  octagonal  in  shape. 
A  dainty  plilow  of  this  kind  may  be  filled 
with  dried  rose  leaves. 

Ornamentation  of  Bedrooms. 

Where  there  are  several  bedrooms,  it  is 
not  unusual  to  furnish  each  one  in  a  color 


TABLE    DECORATIONS    FOR    STATE   OR    FORMAL    OCCASIONS. 

When  dinners  are  given  in  honor  of  a  distinguished  guest,  or  by  a  select  society  oi 
organization,  elaborate  decorations  for  table  and  room  are  prepared.  Engraved  or  neatly 
printed  menus  are  at  ^ach  plate.  From  the  ceiling  hangs  the  monogram  of  the  guest  oi; 
the  organization  giving  the  dinner. 


HOME  DECORATIONS 


of  its  own.  One  room,  for  instance,  may- 
be furnished  in  blue  and  white.  The  walls 
may  be  hung  with  satin  striped  paper,  the 
draperies  made  of  inexpensive  materials, 
worked  with  ruffles  and  such  designs  as  the 
occupant  may  desire,  or  which  may  please 
the  designer.  Another  room  may  be  fur- 
nished in  red  and  another  in  green,  and  so 
on.  The  proper  arrangement  of  the  dra- 
peries of  the  windows  adds  much  to  the 
effectiveness  of  the  decorations.  The  bed- 
room should  not  be  overcrowded  with  fur- 
niture, and  each  article  should  have  a  place 
where  it  can  always  be  found. 

Living=Rooni. 

Upon  the  decoration  and  furnishing  of 
the  living-room  depend  much  of  the  warmth, 
comfort,  and  pleasure  to  be  obtained  from 
it.  The  old-fashioned  fire-place  is  again 
coming  into  vogue,  as  the  warmth  and  light 
of  a  good  wood  or  coal  fire  add  greatly  to 
the  cheer  of  the  home.  The  mantelpiece 
and  surroundings  should  not  be  receptacles 
for  odds  and  ends  that  may  be  placed  there 
by  various  occupants  of  the  room,  but 
should  be  tastefully  decorated  with  a  mantel 
clock,  vases  of  flowers  or  dried  grasses,  and 
one  or  two  ornamental  articles.  Over- 
crowding should  be  avoided.  On  each  side 
of  the  mantel  should  be  hung  suitable  and 
suggestive  pictures,  neatly  framed,  always 
avoiding  the  cheap  penny  pictures,  which 
do  nothing  more  than  encumber  the  walls. 
A  few  choice  pictures  are  much  more  to  be 
desired  than  many  cheap  prints.  Books 
should  be  arranged  on  shelves,  or  in  book- 
cases specially  prepared  for  them.  Care 
should  be  taken  that  they  be  properh?-  ar- 
ranged in  such  order  as  may  be  agreed  upon, 
whether  by  titles  or  by  sizes.  Window 
draperies  for  the  living-room  should  always 
be  bright  in  color  and  serviceable.  There 
are  several  ways  of  hanging  them  ;  probably 
the  most  serviceable  one  is  by  rings  from 
poles  placed  across  the  window. 

The  Convenient  Kitchen. 

The  kitchen  is  the  workshop  of  the  home. 
It  therefore  should  be  furnished  and  ar- 
ranged for  the  special  convenience  of  the 
housewife  and  cook,  and  for  the  health  of 
the  occupants  of  the  home.     Plenty  of  light 


and  air  should  be  provided.  At  some  time, 
during  the  day  it  should  have  sunshine  in 
abundance.  In  building  a  house  it  is  more 
important  to  decide  the  location  of  the 
kitchen  than  that  of  the  parlor.  The  sani- 
tary arrangements  include  proper  drainage, 
copious  and  clean  supply  of  water,  the  best 
sanitary  plumbing,  generous  room  in  the 
closets  and  pantries,  and  facilities  for  the 
proper  care  of  cooking  utensils.  Kitchens 
should  be  made  attractive  as  well  as  useful. 
This  may  be  accomplished  by  giving  atten- 
tion to  the  hanging  of  simple  curtains  at  the 
windows  and  over  open  cupboards  ;  by  the 
arrangement  of  dishes  and  utensils  in  the 
places  where  they  belong ;  by  tidiness  in 
the  furniture  of  the  kitchen,  and  by  general 
cleanliness.  It  is  not  customary  to  decorate 
the  walls  with  pictures.  The  mantelpiece 
should  have  its  clock  and  one  or  two  sug 
gestive  ornaments. 

Window  Gardens. 

Nothing  adds  so  much  cheer  to  the  house 
as  beautiful  vrindow  gardens  filled  with 
flowers  and  potted  plants.  These  decora- 
tions are  within  the  reach  of  all,  and  there 
are  many  beautiful  designs  which  will  sup- 
gest  themselves  besides  those  we  offer.  One 
of  the  prettiest  we  have  Reen  is  a  window 
garden  occupying  the  south  end  of  a  dining- 
room,  arranged  with  a  wire  stand  in  the 
centre.  These  stands  are  readily  procured 
at  almost  any  merchandii'e  store,  or  they 
may  be  readily  made  out  of  light  pieces  of 
lumber  in  the  form  of  steps,  which,  if  neatly 
painted  green  or  red,  will  be  very  service- 
able. Window  shelves  may  be  made  and 
covered  with  heavy  paper  or  oil  cloth  of  a 
neat  figure.  The  plants  may  be  so  arranged 
as  to  give  sunlight  to  the  varieties  needing 
it  most. 

Another  very  useful  form  is  to  make  for 
the  window  garden  a  box,  m  length  equal  to 
the  width  of  the  window,  sxx  or  eight  inches 
wide  and  eight  inches  deep.  The  box 
should  be  lined  with  zinc  and  filled  with 
sand  or  light  mold.  Not  more  than  six  or 
eight  plants  should  be  used  in  an  ordinary 
window-garden  box.  In  wmter  time  the 
plants  should  be  carefully  protected  at  nigti\ 
from  the  frost  caused  by  th«  falling  of  the 
tei-iperature  of  the  room.       This  ma^^   fe^ 


lOI 


HOME  DECORATIONS 


easily  done  by  putting  heavy  paper  between 
the  plants  and  the  window. 

Decorations  for  Public  and  Festive 
Occasions. 

It  is  desirable  to  decorate  rooms  for  both 
public  and  private  occasions,  such  as  anni- 
versary days  and  festal  days.  Decorations 
intended  to  instil  patriotism  are  frequently 
used  on  Children's  Day,  Washington's 
Birthday  and  the  Fourth  of  July.  The 
national  flag  is  always  a  prominent  feature. 
The  platform,  or  stage,  or  the  part  of  the 
room  to  be  used  forthe  entertainment,  is  made 
the  centre  of  the  decorations.  Flowers,  palms 
and  vines  are  always  beautiful,  and  their 
arrangement  depends  upon  the  taste  of  the 
parties  directing  the  same.  It  must  not  be 
overlooked  that  even  the  most  common 
flowers  and  plants  form  the  prettiest  decora- 
tions. Although  the  farmer  may  fight  the 
daisy  as  a  nuisance  in  the  field,  yet  the  dec- 
orator will  find  that  it  makes  one  of  the 
most  beautiful  decorations,  either  bunched 
together  or  in  chains,  woven  around  walls 
and  furniture. 

Wedding  Occasions. 

No  wedding  would  be  complete  unless 
there  were  decorations  in  the  parlor  or 
church  where  the  marriage  ceremony  takes 
place,  and  also  of  the  dining-room  and  table 
where  the  breakfast  or  dinner  is  served. 
There  are  many  happy  suggestions  for  such 
occasions.  It  is  customary  to  decorate  the 
church  by  running  arches,  made  of  flowers 
and  vines,  over  the  aisle  along  which  the 
bridal  procession  takes  place.  Festoons 
may  be  hung  from  the  ceiling  in  artistic 
lines.  Care  should  be  taken  that  harmony 
in  arrangement  prevails,  and  one  part  is 
not  decorated  at  the  expense  of  another. 
Potted  plants  are  always  beautiful  in  decor- 
ating the  platform  and  pulpit  and  for  tables 
and  window  ledges.  White  ribbon,  either 
in  bows,  or  nicely  looped,  adds  also  to  the 
effectiveness  of  the  decorations. 

Decorating  the  Table. 

For  bridal  or  festive  occasions  very 
simple  and  pretty  decorations  may  be  made 
by  the  an'angement  of  a  few  flowers  on  the 
table  and  good  taste  in  arranging  the  china. 


the  silver,  and  the  linen.  It  should  not  be 
overlooked  that  too  much  decoration  is 
worse  than  no  decoration  at  all,  and  the 
effectiveness  is  often  lost  by  carelessness  in 
arranging  one  or  two  small  items.  Sym- 
metry and  harmony  should  not  be  lost  sight 
of.  The  color  effect  should  be  left  to  per- 
sons who  have  "  an  eye  for  color." 

Fancy  Work  for  Leisure  Hours. 

In  these  days  of  household  leisure  taste 
in  common  art  has  developed,  and  we  care 
much  more  than  did  our  grandparents  about 
surrounding  ourselves  with  things  of  beauty. 
The  struggle  of  life  was  harder  for  them, 
and  they  had  little  time  to  adorn  tables  and 
chairs,  arrange  artistic  effects  in  rooms,  and 
make  windows  and  walls  rich  with  color 
and  fair  with  soft  drapery. 

Embroidery, 

Among  the  most  popular  home  occupa- 
tions for  present-day  ladies  may  be  named 
embroidery.  The  loom  and  the  spinning- 
wheel,  in  one  form  or  another,  are  as  old  as 
civilization,  and  our  devotion  to  the  em- 
broidery frame  is  but  a  return  to  the  occu- 
pation in  which  mediaeval  ladies  found 
delight.  Few  of  them  could  read  or  write, 
and  the  needle  was  their  only  form  of  ex- 
pression. This  is  no  longer  the  case;  we 
are  not  so  narrowed  in  our  range,  and  yet 
embroidery  continues  to  be  pleasant  work 
for  a  group  of  merry  girls  or  thoughtful 
women. 

The  most  expensive  materials  for  this 
work  are  silk,  velvet,  tissue,  gold  and  silver 
cloth,  velveteen,  and  plush.  Among  cheaper 
materials  are  linens  of  various  degrees  of 
fineness,  crash,  sateen,  sheeting,  serge,  and 
Canton  flannel. 

Every  lady  who  gives  her  mind  to  it, 
even  if  her  skill  is  not  great,  can  improve 
an  unattractive  room  by  a  few  judicious  al- 
terations, and  every  young  girl  may  learn  to 
embroider  at  odd  moments,  and  by  the  work 
of  her  hands  transform  her  abode  from  ugli- 
ness to  beauty. 

Crewels  are  used  for  working  on  linen, 
serge  and  flannel.  Tapestry  wool,  a  thicker 
substance,  is  useful  on  coarse  fabrics.  Em- 
broidery silk  is  preferred  for  silk,  satin,  oi 
fine  materials.     In  working  with  crewels^, 


PATRIOTIC  DECORATIONS 

Decorations  used  to  instil  patriotism  are  the  most  commendable  of  tlie  many  public 

occasions. — Children's  Days,  Commencements  and   national  holidays   are_  the 

most  popular.     Flags  and  bunting,  banks  of  daisies,  a  "  Ship  of  State  " 

and  floral  columns  are  seen  in  this  illustration. 


DECORATIONS  FOR  A  WEDDING 

fhis  is  an  interesting  view  of  elaborate  designs,  in  arches  and  festoons.     The  green  and  whita 
in  the  arches  and  in  the  pulpit  decorations  are  easily  procured  and  arranged. 


HOME  DECORATIONS 


S 


the  threads  should  be  cut  into  short  lengths, 
it  being  difficult  to  use  a  long  thread  with- 
out puckering  the  work. 

Silk  plush,  the  most  elegant  and  effec- 
tive material  for  banners,  draperies,  and 
covers,  is  very  costly.  Woolen  plush  is  a 
little  less  costly,  but  is  also  expensive. 
Canton  flannel,  in  all  the  rich  and  desirable 
colors,  is  a  much  cheaper  material.  As  re- 
gards the  cost  of  these  and  the  other  mate- 
rials named,  our  lady  readers  are  probably 
well  informed. 

Stitches. — Stem-stitch  is  not  diflBcult. 
It  is  simply  a  long  stitch  forward,  a  short 
one  backward,  and  then  another  long  stitch 
a  little  in  advance  of  the  first.  In  working 
outlines,  care  must  be  taken  to  exactly  fol- 
low the  line  of  the  pattern,  and  to  keep 
the  thread  to  the  left  of  the  needle.  Some 
knowledge  of  drawing  is  necessary  for  good 
embroidery.  Leaves  and  flowers  or  con- 
ventional designs  should  be  nicely  drawn  or 
Stamped  before  beginning  to  work.  A  lady 
is  sometimes  so  deft  with  her  needle  that 
she  can  compose  her  pattern  as  she  goes  on, 
but  this  is  not  apt  to  be  widely  the  case. 
The  stem -stitch  may  be  longer  or  shorter 
according  to  fancy,  but  it  must  be  even. 

Split-stitch  is  a  variety  of  stem-stitch, 
but  in  bringing  the  needle  up  through  the 
material  it  must  be  passed  through  the  em- 
broidery silk  or  crewel. 

Satin-stitch  is  the  same  on  both  sides. 
The  needle  must  be  taken  back  each  time 
to  the  point  from  which  it  started.  Rope- 
stitch  is  a  twisted  chain-stitch ;  blanket- 
stitch  is  the  ordinary  buttonhole  stitch  less 
closely  worked ,  and  feather-stitch  is  a  broken 
stitch,  worked  in  a  light  airy  way,  to  suit 
the  convenience  of  the  seamstress. 

Drawn-work  consists  in  drawing  out 
threads  from  linen,  and  working  designs  in 
the  drawn  space  or  filling  in  with  needle- 
work. This  is  pretty  for  tidies  and  for  the 
bordering  of  pillow-shams,  spreads,  and 
curtains. 

The  embroiderer  needs  a  smooth  thim- 
ble, as  a  sharp  one  is  likely  to  catch  in  her 
silk,  a  sharp  and  pointed  pair  of  scissors, 
and  a  set  of  needles  of  different  sizes. 

Applique  work  is  simply  transferred 
work.     Cut  out  pretty  figures  from  damask 


or  cretonne,  or  the  best  parts  of  old  and 
worn  embroideries,  and  fasten  them  secure- 
ly on  a  foundation  of  lace,  linen,  or  silk. 

Things  to  Embroider. — In  addition  to 
curtains,  lambrequins,  screens,  and  panels, 
which  only  a  few  women  have  time  for, 
cushions  and  chair-backs  may  be  made  in 
great  variety.  Sofa  cushions  are  always 
desirable  as  gifts.  A  long  narrow  cushion 
for  the  back  of  an  invalid's  chair,  a  neck- 
rest  for  a  rocker,  covers  of  linen  to  be 
slipped  over  a  chair  that  has  lost  its  fresh- 
ness, little  round  table  mats,  pieces  to 
brighten  the  centre  of  a  dinner-table,  port- 
folios and  letter-cases,  slippers  and  sewing 
and  knitting-aprons,  with  pockets  to  hold  a 
bit  of  work,  thimble,  and  needle  sheath,  are 
among  the  many  articles  that  may  be  made 
in  leisure  hours. 

Crocheting. 

The  little  crochet  hook  is  a  very  old 
instrument.  Its  charm  is  that  with  so 
small  a  tool  so  many  beautiful  things  may 
be  produced.  From  a  counterpane  to  a 
collar,  almost  anything  may  be  made  with 
the  crochet  needle.  Babies'  afghans  and 
sofa  quilts  for  convalescents  are  often  cro- 
cheted. There  are  few  occupations  more 
fascinating  than  this  to  those  with  time  to 
spare. 

Knitting. 

The  delight  of  knitting  is  its  sociability. 
Embroidery  demands  close  attention,  but 
the  knitter  may  talk  at  the  same  time,  her 
fingers  moving  with  automatic  precision. 
What  pictures  rise  in  our  mind's  eye  of  dear 
old  ladies  knitting  by  the  fire,  their  needles 
flashing  and  their  voices  busy  with  social 
chat !  Shawls  for  breakfast  or  evening  wear 
can  be  either  knitted  or  crocheted,  and 
many  other  articles  at  once  useful  and  or- 
namental, are  at  the  command  of  busy  and 
skillful  fingers  in  this  old-fashioned  art. 

Decalcomanie. 

Beautiful  jars,  vases,  umbrella  holders 
and  boxes  may  be  made  in  this  favorite 
work,  for  which  scrap  pictures  are  neces- 
sary. It  requires  taste  to  arrange  these 
tastefullv.  and  when  well  gummed,  they 
siiould  be  varnished  to  preserve  them  and 


85 


103 


HOME  DECORATIONS 


to  impart  a  finish.  Choose  boxes,  vases,  or 
bowls  of  clear,  flawless  glass.  Cut  and 
gum  your  picture  very  carefully  on  the 
vase,  which  must  then  be  varnished.  Pass 
a  coating  of  gum  over  the  inside  of  the 
vase,  then,  if  the  outside  is  quite  dry,  paint 
it  in  oil,  in  any  color  you  please.  Tall 
vases  to  fill  with  cat-tails  and  grasses,  or  to 
contain  a  potpourri  inside,  shedding,  when- 
ever stirred,  its  faint,  spicy  odor  over  the 
drawing-room,  are  very  interesting  decora- 
tions, and  have  about  them  an  unmistak- 
able air  of  antiquity  :  that  is,  if  the  vase  be 
of  ancient  pattern,  or  the  ornaments  those 
of  Assyrian,  Egyptian,  or  Etruscan  char- 
acter. 

Potpourri. 

The  potpourri  just  referred  to  may  be 
made  of  various  combinations  of  fragrant 
materials.  A  very  agreeable  one  may  be 
made  by  the  following  recipe  for  a  rose-jar  : 
One-half  peck  of  rose  leaves,  one-half  pound 
each  of  common  salt,  bay  salt,  and  brown 
sugar;  one  ounce  each  of  storax,  benzoin, 
ground  orris  root,  cinnamon,  mace,  and 
cloves.  These  should  be  pounded  and 
mixed  by  a  druggist. 

To  the  above  may  be  added  orange  and 
lemon  verbena  and  other  aromatic  leaves. 
Putting  these  ingredients  in  your  jar,  and 
stirring  them  frequently  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  you  can,  at  any  time,  by  airing  and 
then  closing  your  room,  fill  it  with  a  deli- 
cate perfume. 

Wax  Flowers. 

Wax  flowers  are  ordinarily  only  clumsy 
imitations  of  the  lovely  blossoms  which 
adorn  our  gardens,  or  smile  upon  us  from 
lurking-places  in  wood  or  wayside,  yet  the 
artist  in  this  work  is  sometimes  so  success- 
ful as  to  cheat  the  bees  and  birds. 

In  endeavoring  to  learn  this  art  do  not 
be  too  easily  discouraged.  Practice  in  this, 
as  in  all  things,  makes  perfect.  You  may 
try  to  make  one  flower  and  produce  a  result 
more  nearly  resembling  another,  but  if  you 
would  succeed  you  must  not  let  such  fail- 
ures stop  your  work. 

You  always  have  the  advantage  that 
your  model  is  perfect.  You  are  not  re- 
quired to  make   any    improvements   upon 


nature  ;  you  have  only  to  imitate,  and  the 
pattern  is  before  you  in  all  its  charming 
perfection  of  shape  and  tint. 

Practice  will  fit  you  in  time  for  closely 
reproducing  nature,  if  the  exact  imitation 
of  her  work  is  what  you  are  to  aim  at. 
New  models  are  always  at  hand ;  s])ring 
and  summer  bring  them,  and  the  coldest 
winter  day  need  not  be  without  them  bloom- 
ing in  window-pot  or  hothouse  avenues. 

To  say  there  is  a  peculiar  fascination  in 
this  art  is  only  to  express  what  has  been  re- 
alized by  nearly  all  who  have  tried  it.  And 
when  you  have  succeeded  and  your  produc- 
tions bear  a  close  resemblance  to  their 
original  copies,  your  home  has  beautiful 
ornaments. 

Wax  should  be  kept  in  a  box,  closely 
covered  from  dust,  and  in  a  cool  place.  A 
brush  must  be  provided  for  every  color,  and 
strictly  kept  for  that  one  tint.  Your  sable 
pencils  may  be  cleaned  after  using  for  one 
color,  and  employed  in  another. 

Always  use  a  pair  of  scissors  to  cut  out 
your  petals,  and  take  as  your  pattern  the 
flower  you  wish  to  copy. 

In  purchasing,  it  is  economy  to  obtain 
the  very  best  wax.  You  will  need  white, 
cream-tinted,  very  pale  green,  smilax,  tea- 
rose  leaf,  pale  spring-  and  deep  spring- 
green  tints  for  wax,  but  at  first  a  few  colors 
will  suffice.  In  paints,  both  in  powder 
and  cake,  the  waxworker  should  have  car- 
mine, chrome-yellow,  burnt  sienna,  burnt 
umber,  Prussian  blue,  indigo,  crimson  lake, 
violet,  carmine,  rose-madder,  French  ultra- 
marine, flake-white,  and  Indian  yellow ;  a 
sufficient  number  of  tinting  and  sable  pen- 
cils ;  some  modeling  pins,  wires  covered 
with  silk  for  fine,  and  with  cotton  for  coarse 
stems  ;  a  palette  and  palette  knife ;  some 
best  Bermuda  arrowroot ;  green  and  white 
down  for  leaves  ;  two  sizes  of  wooden  molds 
for  the  lily  of  the  valley  and  a  cutter  for 
heliotrope,  and  a  bar  of  India  ink.  This  is 
a  much  larger  outfit  than  the  novice  re- 
quires, and  will  only  need  to  be  obtained 
gradually,  as  the  worker  improves  and 
grows  more  ambitious. 

To  take  the  pattern  of  a  petal,  place  it 
on  white  paper,  and  brush  it  over  with  a 
tinting-brush.     The  form  of  the  petal  will 


104 


HOME    DECORATIONS 

4.  comfortable  cozy  corner,  which  may  be  made  in  any  house  at  small  expense  by  a  rear- 
rangement of  the  furniture  or  by  a  boy  or  man  familiar  with  tools.  The  sofa  is  of  rough  wooden 
construction,  covered  with  a  mattress  and  a  rug  or  shawl. 


HOME  DECORATIONS 

The  Ingle  Nook  and  Mantel.    A  suggestion  for  beautifying  a  room  where  there  Is  a  fire  place  and  mantel  and  space  at 

each  side  for  artistic  seats  and  cushions.     The  whole  effect  is  that  of  warmth  and  comfort.     A  few  choice 

ornamentsare  on  the  mantel,  handy  volumes  on  the  shelves  and  pictures  on  the  wall. 


HOME  DECORATIONS 


be  left  white  on  the  paper,  and  may  be  cut 
out.  Or  the  petal  may  be  laid  on  a  piece  of 
paper  and  its  pattern  cut  out  in  that  way. 
Always  cut  the  petals  with  the  grain  of  the 
wax.  The  fingers  are  excellent  modeling 
tools.  A  few  drops  of  glycerine  used  on 
the  hands  an  hour  or  two  before  working 
makes  them  soft  and  pliant.  Do  not  work 
with  brittle  wax.  To  remove  its  brittle- 
ness  set  it  awhile  in  a  warm  room,  if  it  has 
been  in  the  cold. 

Flower  and  Fruit  Molds. — To  take  a 
mold  for  flower  or  fruit,  mix  some  very  fine 
plaster  of  Paris  in  a  bowl  with  water,  to  the 
thickness  of  cream.  Pour  it  lightly  over 
leaf,  or  fruit,  or  bud,  which  it  is  well  to 
place  for  the  purpose  on  a  glass  slab.  In 
about  ten  minutes  the  plaster  will  be  hard- 
ened sufficiently  to  lift  it  from  the  slab. 
Pare  away  with  a  penknife  any  plaster  that 
may  have  run  over.  lyct  the  mold  stay  in 
the  sun,  having  removed  the  leaf  or  bud, 
until  it  has  hardened.  In  twenty-four 
hours  it  will  be  ready  for  a  coat  of  varnish, 
which  must  be  very  thin  indeed. 

' '  To  take  the  mold  of  such  a  flower  as  a 
fuchsia  or  an  unopened  bud,  oil  it,  pour 
your  thick  plaster  into  a  paper  form,  and 
allow  the  bud  to  sink  on  its  side  in  the 
plaster.  Let  it  sink  only  to  the  centre  line, 
leaving  one-half  exposed."  This  we  are 
told  by  a  teacher  of  experience.  ' '  Lift  the 
mold  out  of  the  plaster  before  it  is  set  too 
hard,  scrape  the  rim  smooth,  and  with  the 
point  of  a  penknife  make  two  little  cavities, 
one  at  the  stem  end,  the  other  at  the  point 
where  the  four  sepals  of  the  calix  fold,  and 
carefully  brush  away  any  little  particles  of 
plaster  ;  place  this  half  of  the  mold  back  in 
the  paper  form,  and  paint  the  rim,  the  hol- 
low, and  the  little  cavities  with  sweet  oil ; 
place  the  bud  again  in  the  cast,  and  pour 
enough  plaster  over  the  exposed  part  to  fill 
the  paper  form." 

In  order  to  take  a  wax  mold  from  this, 
dip  it  into  cold  water,  and  pour  melted  wax 
into  one-half;  fit  the  other  half  to  it,  turn  it 
upside  down,  slowly,  and  hold  in  your  hand 
till  it  has  hardened.  On  removing  the 
mold  you  will  have  the  perfect  bud.  If 
you  were  able  before  the  plaster  became  too 
firm,  to  bore  a  little  hole  in  the  mold  at  the 


stem  end,  you  can  slip  the  wire  stem  through 
before  the  wax  hardens. 

Proceed  in  the  same  manner  to  make 
molds  for  fruit,  using  your  judgment  accord- 
ing to  shape  and  size. 

Wax  flowers  and  fruits  are  very  salable  at 
fairs  and  bazaars,  and  the  lady  who  knows 
how  to  make  them  well  is  always  sure  of 
presenting  her  favorite  table  with  something 
which  will  make  a  fine  display,  and  bring  in 
a  good  profit  when  disposed  of. 

Phantom  Leaves. 

Phantom  or  skeleton  leaves  are  the 
ghostly  remnants  of  the  leaves  that  have 
waved  on  the  trees  in  summer.  They  are 
troublesome  to  prepare,  but  are  very  pretty 
when  finished.  Gather  the  leaves  when 
they  are  perfect,  and  then  lay  them  in  a 
large  jar,  filled  with  water.  Leave  them 
there  until  they  decay,  when  the  fleshy  part 
of  the  leaves  can  be  easily  detached  from 
the  framework.  The  translucent,  thread- 
like form  of  this  delicate  veined  work  is 
very  beautiful.  Having  loosened  the  green 
part,  bleach  the  remainder  by  infusion  in  a 
strong  solution  of  soda.  When  quite  white, 
bouquets  or  wreaths  may  be  made  of  difier- 
ent  leaves  in  combination,  which  may  be 
arranged  on  a  dark  background,  or  set 
under  glass. 

Autumn  Leaves  and  Ferns. 

Happy  hours  may  be  passed  in  gathering 
and  pressing  ferns  and  autumn  leaves,  with 
which  to  adorn  the  house  when  winter  has 
made  desolate  the  fields  without. 

Never  have  too  many  of  these  in  one 
apartment,  for  ornament  should  always  be 
subordinate,  and  no  room  should  be  smoth- 
ered with  either  growing  plants,  or  pressed 
leaves  and  ferns. 

In  preparing  these,  the  brilliant  maple 
and  other  leaves  should  be,  after  drying  and 
pressing,  dipped  into  thin  wax,  or  varnished. 
When  once  safely  prepared  they  may  be 
hung  about  the  rooms  in  such  manner  as 
may  seem  most  ornamental.  They  can  be, 
if  desired,  sewn  on  paper  in  suitable  pat- 
terns, and  framed  under  glass  as  winter  pict- 
ures of  the  flown  summer. 

To  prepare  the  leaves,  press  them  imme- 
diately after  gathering  between  old  news- 


105 


HOME  DECORATIONS 


papers,  or,  if  you  have  it  handy,  large 
sheets  of  blotting-paper,  on  which  lay  a 
thin,  smooth  piece  of  board.  Take  care  to 
change  the  newspaper  every  day  until  thor- 
oughly dry.  Then  wax  or  varnish  as  above 
directed. 

China  Painting. 

For  this  work  procure  your  colors  in 
tubes,  since  you  will  thus  acquire  a  greater 
variety  than  you  would  for  either  oil  or 
water-color  painting.  The  colors  most  in 
use  are  black,  white,  gray,  and  several 
shades  of  red,  brown,  green,  yellow,  and 
purple.  These  may  be  obtained  at  any  art- 
store.  The  tube  colors  are  diluted  with 
turpentine.  You  will  require  a  porcelain 
palette,  a  glass  slab,  several  camel's  hair 
brushes  of  diflferent  sizes,  a  bottle  of  spirits 
of  turpentine,  one  of  98  per  cent,  alcohol, 
and  small  bottles  of  oil  of  turpentine,  oil  of 
lavender,  and  balsam  of  copaiba.  A  steel 
palette  knife,  and  one  of  horn  or  ivory ;  a 
rest  for  the  hand  while  painting,  made  of  a 
strip  of  wood  about  an  inch  long  and  twelve 
inches  wide ;  a  small  glass  muller-;  and  a 
fine  needle  set  in  a  handle  for  removing  tiny 
particles  of  dust. 

A  plate,  a  flat  plaque,  or  a  tile  is  best  to 
begin  with,  and  the  first  design  should  be  of 
the  simplest.  One  must  learn  by  degrees 
how  to  use  the  colors  which  will  best  stand 
the  firing,  which  is  the  crucial  test.  There 
are  places  in  the  cities  to  which  articles  of 
painted  china  may  be  sent  to  be  fired,  few 
people  having  the  facilities  to  do  this  in 
their  homes. 

Painting  can  be  applied  to  china,  to  vel- 
vet, to  satin,  to  cloth,  and  to  almost  every 
fabric  and  material  in  use  among  civilized 
peoples. 

By  study,  careful  watching  of  processes, 
attention  to  details,  and  obedience  to  the 
directions  of  the  best  manuals,  one  may 
learn  to  paint  creditably  without  a  master. 
But  all  arts  are  rendered  less  difficult  by  a 
painstaking  teacher,  and  many  weary  hours 
and  disappointments  may  be  saved  by  join- 
ing an  art  class. 

Amateur  Photography. 

To  have  one's  picture  taken  was  former- 
ly a  family  event ;  now  it  is  the  work  of  a 


106 


fraction  of  a  minute  in  the  photographer's 
chair,  while  the  art  of  photography  is  a  com- 
mon amusement  for  leisure  hours. 

An  amateur  photographer's  outfit  is  not 
very  expensive,  and  is  an  exceedingly  at- 
tractive and  instructive  possession  to  young 
and  old  alike.  The  negatives  taken  will  be 
developed  by  any  professional  photographer, 
or  may  be  by  the  amateur  himself,  if  ingen- 
ious enough  to  prepare  the  necessary  ap- 
pointments and  study  the  art.  For  this  he 
must  resort  to  works  on  photography. 

Screens. 

Our  forefathers  did  not  think  their 
houses  complete  without  screens.  These 
are  useful  for  breaking  off  the  heat  where 
there  is  an  open  grate,  and  for  placing  near 
a  door  often  opened,  to  prevent  a  draft,  and 
are  still  quite  popular.  Very  handsome 
ones  may  be  made  of  feathers  by  gumming 
them  on  a  framework  of  gauze  or  other  ma- 
terial, stretched  by  wire.  Or  card -board  may 
be  used  for  the  background.  The  lad  who 
is  skillful  with  tools  may  make  screens  of 
thin  wood  and  other  light  materials,  a 
framework  of  strips  being  made  and  fastened 
together,  and  then  covered  with  the  material 
preferred.  If  it  is  to  be  a  folding  screen, 
the  separate  parts  can  be  readily  joined 
together  with  hinges. 

Care  of  Domestic  Animals  and 
Plants. 

It  seems  advisable  to  supplement  what 
we  have  said  about  the  methods  of  making 
home  attractive  with  some  consideration  of 
other  important  elements  of  home  interest, 
the  plants  and  flowers  which  change  our 
windows  into  miniature  conservatories,  and 
the  singing  birds  and  other  pet  animals  to 
which  we  give  loving  care,  and  whose  lively 
arts  and  swset  voices  help  to  make  the 
hours  pass  pleasantly.  First  among  these 
it  will  be  well  to  speak  of  the  prime  favorite 
among  all  the  feathered  tribe,  the  golden- 
plumaged  and  sweet  voiced  canary. 

The  Canary  Bird. 

No  birds,  except  pigeons  and  fowls,  have 
developed  under  man's  care  into  so  many 
varieties  as  the  canary.  The  original  wild 
bird  is  a  finch,  of  greenish  hue.     Among 


HOME  DECORATIONS 


domestic  birds  there  are  several  varieties 
fully  or  partly  green,  but  yellow  is  the  most 
admired  tint,  there  being  several  shades  of 
this  favorite  color.  The  canary,  above  all 
other  birds,  lives  and  thrives  in  a  cage.  It 
has  been  bred  for  so  long  a  series  of  genera- 
tions to  cage-life  that  its  native  wildness  has 
vanished,  and  in  the  open  air  it  is  quite  in- 
capable of  taking  care  of  itself.  In  the  cage 
it  is  bred  with  greater  ease  and  success 
than  almost  any  other  bird,  and  the  raising 
of  canaries  is  in  some  localities,  as  in  the 
Hartz  Mountains  of  Germany,  a  distinct 
and  profitable  business. 

It  is  as  a  song-bird  that  the  canary  is 
most  valued,  and  for  many  generations  its 
powers  of  song  have  been  developed  in 
Germany  until  they  approach  perfection. 
The  young  birds  are  carefully  trained,  some 
by  skillful  older  singers,  some  by  the  flag- 
eolet, until  they  can  execute  certain  fine 
trills  or  passages  of  melody.  Some  song- 
sters have  the  wonderful  compass  of  four 
octaves,  and  can  sing  various  "  shakes  "  in 
marvelous  style.  Each  burst  of  song  should, 
for  the  best  efiect,  end  in  a  soft,  flute-like, 
falling  passage,  an  effect  which  it  takes  six 
months'  training  to  produce.  Many  birds 
of  excitable  temperament  are  apt  to  break 
into  loud,  detached  notes,  which  spoils 
their  song  to  the  ear  of  an  adept  in  canary 
music. 

The  song  of  the  canary  is  evidently  a 
matter  of  choice  and  training,  and  the  Ger- 
man song  canary  has  a  voice  vastly  more 
beautiful  than  that  of  the  wild  bird.  Cock 
birds  of  fine  voice  are  chosen  to  breed  from 
and  also  as  tutors,  young  birds,  if  possible, 
being  trained  in  a  room  where  they  can 
hear  only  the  tutor,  for  they  will  pick  up 
bad  notes  as  easily  as  good  ones  if  left  where 
they  can  hear  them.  The  tutors  and  pupils 
are  allowed  to  sing  only  about  three  hours 
each  day,  being  covered  up  the  rest  of  the 
time.  Birds  that  have  caught  up  bad  notes 
need  to  be  drafted  off,  before  they  can  make 
mischief  among  the  others.  If  there  is  no 
good  tutor,  a  flageolet  will  serve,  with  the 
condition  that  the  same  air  must  always  be 
played  in  exactly  the  same  way. 

The  colors  of  cage  birds  vary  consider- 
ably, through  green,  yellow,  white,  brown, 
gray,  etc.     The  yellow  and  the  white  have 


107 


often  red  eyes,  and  are  tne  most  tender; 
those  most  resembling  the  wild  race — dusky 
green  above  and  yellowish  green  beneath — 
are  the  strongest.  The  bird  now  most  ad- 
mired is  of  yellow  or  white  body ,  with  head , 
wings,  and  tail  of  a  lively  yellow.  The  gold- 
en yellow  bird,  with  head,  wings,  and  tail 
black,  or  dusky  gray,  comes  next  in  estima- 
tion. There  are  other  admired  shades  of 
color,  those  spotted  or  speckled  being  of 
least  value. 

Care  of  Canaries. 

In  keeping  canaries  much  attention  must 
be  paid  to  the  cage,  which  is  very  liable  to 
be  infested  with  the  canary  mite,  a  plague 
so  constant  that  great  care  is  needed  to 
avoid  it.  It  begins  with  a  floury  dust, 
which  is  soon  found  to  be  alive,  the  insects 
becoming  larger  and  reddish  in  color.  They 
harbor  in  the  minutest  crack.  To  destroy 
them,  every  cage  should  be  completely  plas- 
tered with  whitewash  and  carbolic  acid  at 
the  beginning  and  end  of  each  breeding 
season ,  each  chink  being  carefully  filled .  If 
any  of  the  "flour"  appears  on  the  perch, 
this  should  be  withdrawn,  the  place  painted 
with  oil,  and  a  new  perch  with  an  oiled  roof 
put  in.  If  it  is  in  a  crack,  paint  it  over 
with  spirit  varnish.  If  the  case  is  a  bad 
one,  paint  with  solution  of  bichloride  of 
mercury,  rubbing  it  well  into  the  places, 
and,  when  dried,  varnish  over  it.  In  this 
way  the  enemy  may  be  overcome. 

The  food  of  the  bird  is  an  important 
matter.  In  Germany  summer  rape  seed,  of 
mild  quality,  is  chiefly  used,  the  cocks— the 
only  singers— having  also  a  little  bread- 
crumb and  &^^.  To  force  them,  dealers 
often  feed  them  almost  entirely  on  egg- food, 
and  the  bird,  when  purchased,  is  fed  solely 
on  canary  seed,  or  canary  and  hemp  seed. 
This  sudden  change  is  apt  to  prove  in- 
jurious. 

Canaries  are  liable  to  various  disorders 
which  need  special  treatment.  Colds  may 
be  cured  by  putting  twenty  drops  of  pare- 
goric, a  bit  of  gum  arable  the  size  of  a  pea, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  glycerine  in  the 
water.  Loss  of  voice  may  be  treated  in  the 
same  way,  but  in  either  case  it  is  best  to 
give  first  a  drop  or  two  of  castor  oil  from 
the  point  of  a  penholder. 


lO 


HOME  DECORATIONS 


A  dirty  cage  or  stale  green  food  may 
yield  its  result  in  diarrhoea.  This  is  best 
treated  by  oil  given  as  above,  afterwards 
adding  gum  to  the  fountain  and  sprinkling 
a  little  prepared  chalk  in  the  egg-food.  If 
green  food  is  properly  given  constipation  is 
rare.  When  it  occurs,  a  teaspoonful  of  gly- 
cerine, followed  by  one  of  infusion  of  gen- 
tian, should  be  added  to  the  water. 

The  feet  need  to  be  examined  now  and 
then,  since  balls  may  gather  upon  them  and 
cause  much  pain.  The  claws  also  may  need 
to  be  shortened  a  little  from  time  to  time, 
being  clipped  with"  scissors. 

The  Mocking  Bird. 

Among  American  birds,  the  mocking 
bird  stands  high  in  public  estimation.  The 
vocal  powers  of  this  plain-plumaged  favorite 
are  extraord'nary ,  no  other  species  approach- 
ing it  as  a  mimic,  except  its  near  relative, 
the  cat  bird  Its  powers  of  imitation  are 
wonderfully  ^^aried  and  perfect,  and  it  is  in- 
clined to  show  them  as  well  in  captivity  as 
in  freedom.  Its  own  song  is  full,  bold,  and 
exceedingly  varied,  and  it  has  the  faculty  in 
its  native  bush  of  repeating  the  songs  of  all 
its  feathered  neighbors  as  exactly  as  an 
echo.  In  captivity  it  can  be  taught  a  long 
air  by  its  master,  and  will  imitate  the 
quavering  trill  of  the  canary  and  the  fluting 
whistle  of  the  redbird  with  such  fine  execu- 
tion as  to  silence  these  expert  singers.  It 
can  imitate  many  less  musical  sounds,  will 
whistle  for  the  dog,  squeal  like  a  hurt 
chicken,  bark,  mew,  creak  like  the  wheel- 
barrow, and  vary  its  notes  endlessly.  A 
well-trained  mocker  is  a  wonder,  though  at 
times  it  may  become  an  annoyance  from  its 
endless  vivacity. 

The  natural  food  of  the  mocking  bird 
consists  of  insects,  fruit  and  berries,  and  a 
few  insects  or  meal  worms  should  be  added 
to  its  daily  diet,  which  may  consist  of  what 
is  called  fig-dust — finely-grained  oats  mixed 
into  a  stiff  dough  with  milk  and  water. 
Carrot  and  boiled  potato  may  be  given  alter- 
nately, with  a  little  egg-food.  Gravel  and 
water,  of  ^uurse,  are  needed  by  all  birds. 

Other  5ong  Birds. 

The  Virginia  redbird  is  at  once  beautiful 
iu  j^lumage  and  a  favorite  for  its  loud  and 


almost  constant  song.  It  is  hardy,  and  if 
properly  fed  is  liable  to  few  ailments.  It 
needs  to  be  fed  with  seeds,  soft  food,  and 
insects.  A  little  cuttle-fish  bone  should 
hang  in  the  cage,  and  a  red  pepper-pod. 

Others  of  our  native  birds  kept  as  cage 
birds  are  the  beautiful  oriole,  the  merry 
bobolink,  with  its  canary-like  song,  the 
handsome  goldfinch,  with  its  sweet  warble, 
the  brown  thrush,  and  others  of  more  or 
less  powers  of  song. 

Of  foreign  birds  may  be  named  the 
European  starling,  a  handsome  fellow,  of 
beautiful  black  plumage  speckled  with  a 
yellowish  white,  and  with  a  song  of  great 
sweetness.  It  sings  summer  and  winter, 
and  can  be  taught  to  sing  and  whistle  tunes. 
It  needs  soft  food,  doing  well  on  bread  and 
milk,  with  a  little  animal  food  and  sweet  and 
ripe  fruit.  It  is  fond  of  bathing,  plenty  of 
water  being  essential  to  its  health.  It  must 
have  a  deep  saucer  of  gravel  or  a  large  turf 
to  dig  its  beak  in,  which  otherwise  will  grow 
deformed. 

There  are  several  other  European  birds 
of  good  voice,  chief  among  them,  of  course, 
the  nightingale,  which,  however,  does  not 
thrive  in  a  cage.  The  green  linnet  is  a 
pretty  fellow,  and,  mated  with  the  canary, 
produces  the  finest  of  singing  birds.  Other 
handsome  foreign  birds  are  the  Java  sparrow, 
a  quarrelsome  little  fellow  ;  the  Japanese 
robin,  a  good  songster  and  ready  imitator, 
and  the  beautiful  South  American  troopial, 
a  lovely  pet  with  excellent  powers  of  song. 

Parrots. 

Among  cage  birds  not  noted  for  sweet- 
ness of  song,  yet  of  high  popularity,  maybe 
named  the  gray  parrot,  a  familiar  inmate  of 
hundreds  of  households,  and  widely  wel- 
come for  the  part  it  takes  in  the  conversa- 
tion of  the  family.  It  is,  in  its  way,  as 
imitative  as  the  mocking  bird,  but  its  vocal 
powers  are  adapted  to  the  imitation  of  words 
instead  of  song  notes,  and  its  achievements 
in  this  direction  are  often  extraordinary,  es- 
pecially as  the  uncanny  bird  frequently  makes 
his  words  fit  the  occasion  so  closely  that  he 
seems  to  know  well  what  they  mean. 

The  domesticated  parrot  has  no  objec- 
tion to  the  cage,  often  manifesting  uneasi- 
ness when  let  out  for  a  promenade.     The 


loS 


HOME  DECORATIONS 


ir' 


food  of  the  "gf^ij  parrot  should  consist  of 
maize,  oats,  wheat,  and  bird-seeds,  with  oc- 
casional nuts  and  biscuits,  and  ripe  fruit  in 
its  season,  this  being  very  useful  and  whole- 
some. They  can  be  easily  taught  to  eat 
potato,  and  bread  and  milk  and  other  soft 
food  may  be  freely  given.  They  will  eat 
meat  readily,  but,  as  it  tends  to  produce 
disease,  it  should  not  be  given.  They  should 
have  frequent  opportunities  to  bathe,  and, 
if  they  fail  to  do  so,  should  be  showered  in 
summer,  now  and  then,  with  warm  water 
from  a  syringe. 

The  Amazon  parrot,  a  more  highly-col- 
ored bird,  is  as  good  a  talker  as  the  gray. 
Its  plumage  is  green  over  most  of  the  body. 
Its  food  and  general  treatment  should  be  as 
above  described.  Of  other  large  parrots  we 
may  name  the  king  parrot,  a  splendid  red 
and  green  bird,  Pennant's  parrakeet,  and 
the  rosellas.  These  must  all  have  the  same 
diet  of  seeds  and  vegetable  food,  with  fruit 
in  the  season.  The  beautiful  king  parrot, 
one  of  the  quietest  of  these  birds,  breeds 
freely  in  captivity. 

Parrots  usually  leave  oflF  screaming  when 
they  grow  tame  and  familiar,  but  there  are 
some  hopeless  cases,  and  several  cockatoos 
together  may  prove  worse  than  a  brass  band. 
The  beaks  of  the  larger  parrots  are  also  so 
strong  that  only  very  stout  cages  can  stand 
their  attacks,  and  bad-tempered  birds  need 
to  be  dealt  with  cautiously,  as  they  could 
break  or  sever  a  finger  with  great  ease. 

As  a  general  rule,  the  food  of  all  parrots 
should  consist  of  grain  and  seeds,  especially 
millet,  maize,  or  harvest  grains  in  the  ear  or 
on  the  stalk.  Sunflower  seed  is  highly  rel- 
ished, and  such  green  food  as  salad  herbs, 
chickweed,  groundsel,  etc.,  should  be  given 
freely,  with  a  twig  from  some  green  tree  to 
gnaw  at.  Biscuits  are  good  in  moderation, 
as  also  nuts  and  sweet  fruits. 

There  is  a  large  family  of  small  parra- 
keets,  the  so-called  love-birds,  of  remark- 
able beauty  of  plumage,  at  the  head  of 
which,  for  beauty,  hardiness,  and  docility, 
is  the  shell  parrot  of  Australia.  This  bird 
breeds  in  captivity  as  readily  as  the  canary, 
and,  as  it  is  very  gregarious,  it  does  best  in 
an  aviary,  where  numerous  pairs  can  be  let 
loose.  For  breeding  it  must  be  provided 
witn  a  log,  with  a  suitable  hole  made  in  it. 


its  native  nest  being  built  in  hollow  logs. 
There  are  other  varieties  of  parrakeets  kept 
in  captivity,  but  some  of  them  are  delicate 
and  hard  to  keep.  They  can  be  fed  on 
millet,  maize,  canary  seed,  and  the  like. 

Pigeons. 

There  are  few  pets  which  give  so  little 
trouble  to  keep  and  rear  as  pigeons,  owing 
to  the  fact  that  they  bring  up  and  feed  their 
young  until  these  are  old  enough  to  provide 
for  themselves.  Cage-birds,  it  is  true,  do 
the  same,  but  there  are  many  dangers  and 
mishaps  to  birds  grown  in  confinement, 
which  the  pigeon,  with  its  outdoor  exercise, 
escapes — except  in  some  of  the  highly  arti- 
ficial "  fancy  ' '  varieties. 

In  keeping  pigeons,  the  first  rule  to  ob- 
serve is  never  to  ^rr^^aya^  the  birds.  If  there 
is  only  a  small  space,  one  good  pair  of 
pigeons  will  rear  more  young  in  it  than  sev- 
eral pairs.  A  room  with  six  feet  square 
of  space  will  accommodate  about  six 
pairs  of  breeding-birds, — not  more.  There 
should  be  fewer,  unless  the  young  are  sold 
or  eaten  as  they  grow  large.  The  pigeon- 
cote  in  a  wall  or  at  the  top  of  a  pole  is  fit 
for  only  the  most  common  and  hardy 
pigeons,  and  these  if  used  remain  wild  and 
cannot  be  tamed  or  handled. 

Pigeons  must  either  be  allowed  to  fly 
out  at  liberty  or  have  a  wire-enclosed  space 
outside  in  which  they  can  take  exercise. 
A  space  twelve  feet  long  and  six  feet  wide 
and  high  will  do  very  well.  It  should  have 
shelves  at  the  ends,  affording  a  flight  from 
one  shelf  to  the  other.  The  floor  should  be 
covered  with  lime  and  sand  or  some  form 
of  concrete,  so  that  it  may  be  easily  cleaned. 
It  needs  nothing  else  except  a  vessel  of 
water  for  the  pigeons  to  bathe  in.  This 
may  be  three  or  four  inches  deep  and  two 
or  three  feet  square,  the  water  being  re- 
newed every  morning. 

Within  the  loft  nesting  places  must  be 
provided.  A  simple  kind  is  a  series  of 
shelves  across  the  back  of  the  loft,  with  an 
upright  partition  in  the  middle,  dividing  it 
into  two  sets  of  shelves.  Boards  must  be 
nailed  down  the  front,  leaving  a  central 
opening  for  the  birds  to  each  shelf  space. 
Kach  length  of  shelf  forms  a  breeding  place 
for  one  pair  of  pigeons. 


109 


12 


HOME  DhLORATIONS 


Perches  for  the  birds  must  be  fixed  along 
the  sides  of  the  loft,  as  roosting  places,  with 
slanting  boards  beneath  to  catch  the  drop- 
pings of  the  birds.  These  can  be  very  easily- 
cleaned.  The  loft  should  be  painted,  and 
scrubbed  at  intervals  with  carbolic  soap,  or 
whitewashed  at  suitable  periods  with  hot 
lime.  To  avoid  fleas  or  other  vermin,  cover 
the  floor  with  an  inch  of  coarse  pine  saw- 
dust. If  the  droppings  be  raked  off  every 
few  days,  this  need  not  be  renewed  for  sev- 
eral weeks. 

For  pigeons  in  confinement,  the  perma- 
nent staple  diet  should  be  good  gray  peas. 
In  winter  these  may  be  changed  to  small 
sound  tick  beans.  Either  should  be  mixed 
with  one-third  of  large  tares,  and  a  little 
good  barley  may  be  added.  Beans  are  too 
hard  in  summer,  and  the  diet  should  consist 
of  mixed  peas  and  wheat,  with  small  corn. 
For  very  small  pigeons  small  peas  must  be 
selected,  with  a  few  tares.  Pigeons  are  very 
fond  of  hempseed,  but  nothing  can  be  worse 
for  regular  food.  A  handful  now  and  then 
is  stimulating.  Small  seeds,  like  canary 
and  millet,  are  much  relished,  and  are  useful 
for  the  young  birds.  The  food  should  be 
given  in  some  kind  of  a  hopper,  so  that  the 
birds  cannot  foul  it  with  their  droppings. 
Pigeons  at  liberty  eat  all  kinds  of  things  be- 
sides grain,  such  as  grubs  and  small  worms. 
Some  will  eat  minced  meat  in  confinement, 
and  others  relish  boiled  potato,  bread  and 
milk,  etc. 

There  is  one  element  of  pigeon  diet 
which  must  never  be  omitted.  They  have 
a  craving  for  lime  and  salt,  and  will  pick  at 
old  mortar.  Take  equal  parts  of  old  mor- 
tar pounded,  sandy  gravel,  and  loamy  earth, 
and  add  to  a  gallon  of  this  a  half  pint  of 
cummin  seed  and  as  much  coarse  bay  salt. 
Mix  this  with  strong  lime  into  a  mortar, 
and  keep  it  constantly  supplied  to  a  box, 
with  a  slit  near  the  top  into  which  the  birds 
can  get  their  heads.  If  their  bodies  could 
get  in  they  would  soon  tread  it  hard.  If  old 
mortar  cannot  be  had,  old  slaked  lime  will 
do,  hard  enough  to  need  pounding. 

Highly-bred  pigeons  are  subject  to  vari- 
ous complaints,  from  which  the  hardier 
kinds  are  largely  free.  For  the  former  a 
special  handbook  of  diseases  and  treatment 
will  be  necessary.     For  the  latter  a  simple 


treatment  suffices.  Colds  will  often  yield  to 
a  pinch  of  Epsom  salts  and  shutting  the 
bird  up  in  a  warm  pen,  bathing  the  legs  in 
hot  water  and  drying  every  night ;  diarrhoea, 
to  a  few  drops  of  chlorodyne.  Wing  disease 
is  somewhat  frequent  in  confined  birds,  hard 
yellowish  lumps  showing  on  the  joints  of 
the  wings.  These  should  be  painted  daily 
with  spirits  of  turpentine  or  tincture  of 
iodine,  or  rubbed  with  iodine  ointment. 

Rabbits. 

The  rabbit  is  a  boy's  favorite,  needing, 
of  course,  much  more  space  than  a  bird.  It 
can  be  best  kept  in  a  dry  shed,  ventilated  at 
top  only,  and  well  lighted.  The  floors  are 
usually  of  earth,  but  are  better  if  made  of 
concrete  or  paving  stones,  for  convenience 
in  keeping  clean.  E^^en  a  rough  shed  open 
at  the  front  is  much  better  than  none  at  all, 
or  a  large  door  or  shutter  fixed  over  a  couple 
of  hutches.  The  rabbit  will  not  thrive  with- 
out light,  and  it  is  very  susceptible  to  bad 
weather,  being  subject  to  "snuffles"  (a 
kind  of  influenza)  and  other  disorders. 

A  breeding  hutch  should  not  be  less  than 
three  feet  long  and  eighteen  inches  wide, 
with  a  partition  a  foot  from  one  end,  to 
make  a  sleeping  chamber.  Near  this  must 
be  a  round  hole,  for  the  doe  to  pass  in  and 
out,  with  a  sliding  shutter  to  close  it.  Rab- 
bits are  very  prolific,  having  usually  eight 
or  ten  young  four  times  a  year.  These 
should  not  be  taken  from  their  parents  till 
they  are  six  weeks  old. 

The  rabbit  is  easily  kept,  feeding  on 
grass,  hay,  vegetable  food,  fruit,  scraps  of 
bread,  and  almost  any  fresh  vegetable  mat- 
ter. The  cuttings  and  clippings  of  the 
kitchen  are  welcome  to  the  hutch.  It  is 
easy,  however,  to  give  too  much  food,  and 
wrong  to  give  it  wet.  Some  kind  of  grain 
or  seed  is  the  basis  of  sound  rabbit  food, 
oats  being  the  best.  It  is  wise  to  give  only 
a  little  food  at  a  time,  and  keep  the  rabbite 
rather  hungry.     Overfeeding  is  bad. 

In  addition  to  the  common  rabbit,  there 
are  many  fancy  breeds,  among  them  the 
lyop-eared,  the  Horn,  the  Angora,  and  the 
Maltese.  Some  of  these  are  vtry  odd-look- 
ing, but  none  of  them  are  as  handsome  as 
the  pure  white,  pink-eyed  breed. 


no 


HOME  DECORATIONS 


13 


The  Belgian  Hare. 

This  interesting  animal  is  proving  to  be 
a  popular  one  for  small  investments.  They 
are  very  prolific  breeders,  rearing  several 
broods  each  season.  They  are  larger  than 
the  common  rabbit  and  are  better  eating.  A 
dressed  Belgian  hare  brings  good  prices  in 
the  market.  Their  meat  is  light  in  color 
and  of  excellent  flavor.  They  are  easily 
cared  for  and  cheaply  fed.  A  pair  of  Bel- 
gian hares  will  soon  multiply  into  a  large 
number  and  bring  quick  returns  in  money 
or  meat  for  the  original  investment. 

Other  Animal  Pets. 

Of  other  animals  kept  as  pets  may  be 
named  the  Guinea  pig  and  the  squirrel,  the 
former  kept  much  like  the  rabbit,  the  latter 
in  a  cage.  The  squirrel  in  captivity  is  an 
active  fellow,  fond  of  exercise,  and  if  pro- 
vided with  a  revolving  wh-eel,  for  an  occa- 
sional run,  will  keep  healthy  and  happy.  It 
should  be  provided  with  nuts  for  food,  with 
corn  or  wheat,  or  pieces  of  dry  bread  ;  also 
a  little  bread  and  milk,  squeezed  rather  dry. 
Some  bits  of  meat  are  relished,  but  should 
be  given  sparingly. 

Rats  and  mice  are  also  kept  in  cage-life, 
the  rat  being  almost  as  much  given  to  comi- 
cal antics  as  the  monkey.  The  outer  cage 
should  have  several  perches  and  a  wire  lad- 
der or  two.  The  revolving  cage  sometimes 
used  IS  a  cruel  device  for  these  animals  ;  a 
roomy  cage,  with  perches,  ladders,  and 
swings,  is  far  better  and  more  interesting, 
from  their  varied  gymnastic  powers. 

White  mice,  with  their  pretty  pink  eyes, 
are  pets  admired  by  many.  They  are  tame 
and  hardy,  and  can  be  trained  to  perform 
many  amusing  tricks.  Corn  meal  is  their 
favorite  food.  The  white  rat,  a  Chinese 
species,  is  very  similar  to  the  white  mouse, 
and  if  kept  clean  is  an  interesting  pet.  Of 
course,  these  little  creatures  are  not  likely  to 
be  welcome  to  those  who  bear  an  inborn 
prejudice  against  them,  but  they  are  inno- 
cent and  harmless  animals,  and  those  who 
keep  them  grow  very  fond  of  them. 

The  Aquarium. 

The  indoor  aquarium  is  a  very  attractive 
feature  in  many  homes,  and  is  capable  of 
being  varied  almost  endlessly.     It  will  fur- 


nish many  hours  of  study  and  occupation. 
Its  simplest  form  is  the  familiar  globe  for 
gold  and  silver  fish,  which  can  be  set  on  a 
stand  and  forms  a  very  attractive  ornament. 
It  should  be  kept  about  three-fourths  full  of 
water,  which  needs  to  be  changed  at  least 
once  a  week.  It  is  well  to  put  a  little 
washed  gravel  at  the  bottom,  and  some  clean 
duckweed  or  ether  water-plant  should  be  put 
in  the  water.  These  aid  to  keep  up  the  sup- 
ply  of  oxygen,  and  the  fish  will  nibble  them 
occasionally.  Small  particles  of  bread  or 
biscuit  serve  for  food. 

A  larger  aquarium  is  of  much  more  in- 
terest. This  is  usually  an  oblong  tank, 
with  glass  sides  and  ends,  made  water- 
tight. A  glass  plate  can  be  laid  over  the 
top,  with  a  narrov/  open  space,  so  as  to  ad- 
mit air  and  keep  out  dust.  The  tank 
should  be  bedded  with  clean,  sandy  gravel, 
which  needs  to  be  well  washed,  on  which  is 
placed  some  kind  of  rock-work,  with  a  few 
chinks  or  crannies  for  retirement.  These 
materials  should  be  well  boiled  to  destroy 
any  undesirable  growths.  The  plants  needed 
may  be  selected  somewhat  widely  from 
aquatic  growths.  Some  will  root  in  the 
gravel ;  others,  like  duckweed,  will  float  at 
large. 

A  few  fresh-water  snails  are  all  the  mol- 
lusks  needed.  For  fish,  almost  any  of  the 
smaller  kinds  will  do.  The  perch  can  be 
tamed  to  take  food  from  the  hand.  The 
sticklebacks  are  interesting  from  their  nest- 
building  habits,  but  they  are  such  fighters 
that  it  is  necessary  to  keep  them  by  them- 
selves. The  smaller  fishes  may  be  fed  with 
insects,  tiny  bits  of  meat,  and  bread  crumbs  ; 
the  larger  occasionally  with  minnows. 
Worms  are  useful,  and  sometimes  the  only 
food  available.  Of  other  aquarium  animals, 
the  newts  are  pretty  and  interesting,  swim- 
ming about  with  their  olive  bodies,  or  some- 
times basking  on  the  rock. 

Keep  only  a  few  kinds  of  fish  and  other 
animals  together.  If  scum  collects,  clean  it 
off",  or  add  another  snail,  which  will  do  the 
work  of  an  extra  scavenger.  If  the  inmates 
look  sluggish  and  poor,  replace  some  of  the 
water  and  aerate  it  well.  See  to  it  that  a 
good  supply  of  insects  and  small  worms  is 
put  in  as  food ;  water-fleas,  small  larvae, 
etc.,  may  be  given  freely.  Take  out  at  oqcip 


14 


HOME  DECORATIONS 


any  large  dead  or  decaying  thing.  If  all 
goes  well,  you  need  add  only  some  rain- 
water now  and  then,  to  supply  the  loss  by 
evaporation. 

House  Plants  and  Flowers. 

Interesting  as  many  of  the  cage-birds 
and  other  house  pets  are,  the  window  con- 
servatory and  the  flowering  plant  are  of 
more  value  for  home  adornment,  on  account 
of  the  much  less  care  needed,  and  their 
striking  beauty  when  in  bloom.  The  plants 
which  can  be  used  for  house  adornment  are 
very  numerous.  We  do  not  need  to  go  to 
foreign  lands  in  search  of  them,  for  they 
grow  and  bloom  all  around  us.  Many  of 
the  wild  flowers  of  oui  fields  and  forests 
respond  well  to  the  loving  hand  of  their 
admirer,  and  the  ferns  which  are  abundant 
in  dell  and  ravine  will  fill  \ip  with  attrac- 
tive green  many  spare  nooks  in  garden  or 
on  window-shelf. 

The  flowers  raised  in  pots  lor  house  use 
are  greatly  varied  in  kind  and  character, 
including  the  favorite  rose  and  lily,  the  con- 
stant-blooming geraniums,  the  azaleas,  hy- 
acinths, tulips,  dahlias,  and  a  great  variety 
of  others,  too  numerous  to  mention.  Among 
them  are  many  climbers  which  are  verj  at- 
tractive when  given  an  opportunity  to  drape 
an  open  space.  Not  only  in  the  house,  but 
in  any  bit  of  ground  in  its  vicinity,  green 
things  can  readily  be  kept  in  growth,  burst- 
ing into  rare  beauty  at  some  time  in  the 
year,  when  their  period  of  bloom  arrives. 

Geraniums. 

The  geranium  forms  one  of  the  most  at- 
tractive of  flowering  plants  from  its  rich 
hue  and  the  fact  that  it  keeps  in  bloom 
through  a  great  part  of  the  season.  The 
cultivation  of  it  is  easy,  almost  any  kind  of 
soil  answering  the  purpose.  To  set  out  a 
pot  of  geraniums,  a  small  quantity  of  sand 
should  be  mixed  with  the  soil,  and  some 
good  manui'e  added.  The  plant  being  well 
set  in  the  earth,  it  should  be  watered,  left 
for  several  days  in  a  cool  and  shady  spot, 
then  put  for  a  few  hours  in  the  light.  In  a 
short  time  it  will  become  accustomed  to  the 
sunshine. 

When  the  warm  season  comes,  the  pots 
tjan  be  sei  out  in  the  ground,  being  buried 


to  their  tops.  A  cloudy  day  or  late  after- 
noon should  be  chosen,  so  as  to  avoid  too 
much  sunshine  at  first.  To  keep  the  gera- 
nium in  attractive  condition,  decaying 
leaves  and  fading  flower-heads  should  be 
removed,  so  that  the  plants  may  look 
always  fresh.  Slips  will  root  well  if  set  in 
the  earth  where  shaded  from  the  direct  rays 
of  the  sun.  They  should  be  set  well  down 
and  the  earth  pressed  compactly  around 
them.  In  this  way  fine  young  plants  can 
be  got  ready  for  the  winter  flower  garden. 

Sweet  Pea. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  of  the 
summer-garden  flowers,  from  its  great  va- 
riety of  color  and  abundant  bloom.  It  has 
also  the  charm  of  a  sweet  perfume.  It  sup- 
plies many  shades  of  colored  bloom — white, 
rose,  scarlet,  purple,  and  variegated.  Each 
variety  should  be  planted  separately,  and 
several  feet  from  any  other  plant.  When 
support  is  required  by  the  growing  plant,  a 
light  rod  will  serve  the  purpose.  The  seed 
should  be  sown  in  rich  ground  in  the  early 
spring,  the  plant  growing  five  or  six  feet  ^ 
high,  and  blooming  from  July  to  October. 

In  city  gardens,  indeed,  it  often  proves 
difficult  to  cultivate,  it  being  subject  to  the 
attack  of  minute  insects  which  are  almost 
impossible  to  eradicate.  While  in  some 
gardens  it  grows  freely  and  blooms  profuse- 
ly, in  others  it  sadly  fails,  all  efforts  to  de- 
stroy its  enemies  proving  without  avail. 

Azalea. 

The  azaleas  are  easily  cultivated,  being 
very  hardy,  and  form  very  attractive  plants. 
They  come  in  many  colors  and  also  striped, 
spotted,  or  otherwise  variegated.  They 
need  a  light  soil  of  sandy  loam,  to  which 
leaf-mold  should  be  added.  The  foliage 
requires  showering  once  a  week,  but  the 
roots  will  rot  if  over  watered.  Flower  stems 
form  in  the  new  wood  of  each  summer's 
growth,  so  that  the  amount  of  bloom  is  apt 
to  depend  upon  the  annual  quantity  of.  new 
wood.  The  plants  are  set  out  in  May,  and 
need  to  be  taken  up  in  early  autumn.  They 
do  best  in  the  house  in  a  temperature  vary- 
ing from  40*^  at  night  to  70°  in  the  day- 
time. 


112 


^^^^^^^^B^' 

^^^^ibjIhhH 

Hi 

■ 

PI 

^^M 

■V^ 

!■■ 

hi 

^^^^M 

i^H 

J5 

^ 

^'■■ 

h^-^M 

1^^ 

,^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

sT^^H 

1 

^ 

1, 

^ 

% 

SOFA  PILLOWS 

Beautiful  designs  easily  made.     A  group,  each  made  of  pieces  of  silk,  ribbbon  and  velvet,  cut  in  squares,  diamonds  and  othM: 

shapes.     Of  the  others,  one  is  made  of  crimson  denim  with  fleur-de-lis  embroidered  in  dark  blue  silk  ;  a  second  is 

of  butchers'  linen  with  square  designs  of  drawn  work  in  the  centre;  a  third  is  in  alternating  squares 

of  college  colors  ;  and  the  fourth  is  an  octagonal  pillow  of  white  linen,  the  autographs 

are  written  in  with  pencil  and  outlined  in  silk 


HOME  DECORATIONS 


15 


Hyacinths  and  Tulips. 

The  hyacinth  is  an  easily-cultivated 
plant,  of  which  more  than  a  thousand  vari- 
eties are  grown  in  Holland,  forming  an  im- 
portant item  of  that  country's  export  trade. 
All  Europe  and  the  United  States  are  sup- 
plied with  bulbs  from  this  source.  These 
should  be  set  out  in  October  or  November, 
the  finer  sorts  in  beds,  the  common  kinds  as 
border  plants.  They  will  bloom  in  April, 
and  Piay  be  kept  in  bloom  for  nearly  a 
month.  No  watering  is  needed,  but  they 
must  be  kept  free  from  weeds  and  supported 
with  small  sticks  as  they  increase  in  height. 
They  form  a  rich  garden  ornament,  varying 
through  every  shade  of  red  down  to  white, 
from  blue  to  almost  black,  while  some  few 
are  of  yellow  color. 

The  brilliant  tulip  is  also  a  plant  largely 
grown  and  yielding  many  varieties  in  Hol- 
land, in  which  land  it  has  been  famous  for 
centuries.  The  bulbs  should  be  planted  in 
October  or  November,  being  set  about  four 
inches  deep  and  four  to  six  inches  apart. 
They  need  a  protective  covering  in  case  of 
severe  frosts.  They  bloom  in  early  spring, 
makmg  a  brilliant  display  with  their  gay 
and  rich  hues.  There  are  both  early  and 
late  bloomers,  so  that  a  tulip  border  may  be 
kept  in  fine  appearance  for  a  considerable 
period .  They  succeed  well  in  ordinary  gar- 
den soil,  and,  with  the  hyacinth,  make  a 
very  showy  spring  floral  display.  After  the 
period  of  bloom,  they  can  be  taken  up  and 
stored  until  autumn,  other  plants  taking 
their  places. 

Pansies. 

The  heart's-ease,  or  pansy,  is  a  favorite 
with  every  one,  from  its  beauty  of  color  and 
the  great  variation  I  alike  in  the  form  and 
tint  of  its  flowers.  These  make  their  ap- 
pearance early  in  the  spring,  and  will  con- 
tinue to  bloom  till  the  time  of  frost  comes 
again.  They  reach  their  finest  bloom  in 
May  and  June,  wilt  .somewhat  under  the 
summer  sun,  but  regain  their  beauty  in 
autumn. 

In  planting  pansies,  a  spot  with  a  north 
aspect  should  be  chosen.  Soil  of  medium 
texture  and  not  overfertilized  is  best.  The 
soil  should  be  kept  loose  around  them,  and 
care  be  taken  to  see  that  the  border  is  free 


from  the  wireworm.  By  setting  out  the 
plants  in  September  they  become  well  bedded 
before  winter,  and  seem  to  do  as  well  as 
those  kept  in  frames.  Their  propagation  is 
easy,  and  young  plants  can  be  depended 
upon  for  the  following  season's  beds. 
Seeds,  if  saved,  should  be  taken  only  from 
choice  flowers  ;  in  this  way  alone  can  im- 
proved varieties  be  obtained. 

Verbenas  and  Petunias. 

The  verbena  is  a  South  American  plant, 
which  will  bloom  with  us,  in  the  open  air, 
from  May  to  November,  its  brilliant  scarlet 
flowers  having  no  superior  for  rich  show. 
Kndless  varieties  have  been  produced  by 
cultivation,  their  tints  running  through 
every  shade  except  blue  and  yellow.  There 
are  every  shade  of  red,  scarlet,  crimson, 
purple,  rose,  etc.;  also  scarlet  and  purple, 
white  with  red  eye,  and  various  other  pretty 
combinations. 

The  plant  is  a  creeper,  taking  root  free- 
ly wherever  the  stems  come  into  contact 
with  the  ground.  It  is  difficult  to  keep  it 
through  the  winter,  except  in  the  house  or 
conservatory,  none  of  the  roots  being  quite 
hardy  enough  to  stand  the  wintry  chill. 
Yet  it  continues  to  bloom  after  frost,  and  is 
one  of  the  last  lingering  flowers  of  the  fall. 
It  can  be  easily  reproduced  from  plants  to 
be  had  at  any  greenhouse,  and  also  from 
seed,  which,  if  sown  in  May,  will  yield 
bloom  in  August.  No  plant  surpasses  the 
verbena  for  mass  effect,  when  grown  in  beds 
cut  out  on  lawns,  where  the  brilliant  flowers 
contrast  finely  with  the  green  grass. 

The  petunia  is  another  plant  which 
blooms  throughout  the  entire  season,  even 
after  severe  frosts.  A  bed  of  petunias  will 
be  profuse  in  flowers,  varying  widely  in 
color  and  markings ;  some  single,  others 
double,  occasionally  as  large  and  full  as  a 
rose.  There  are  three  classes,  the  grandi- 
flora,  the  small-flowered,  and  the  double,  the 
small-flowered  being  the  most  common.  It 
is  the  latter  that  add  so  much  to  the  beauty 
of  our  gardens  by  their  great  variety  of  hue. 

The  Lily  and  Rose. 

Of  the  lily  there  are  numerous  widely- 
varied  species,  many  of  them  well  known, 
many  others   rarely  seen  in   gardens.     It 


113 


I6 


HOME  DECORATIONS 


grows  from  a  bulb,  and  will  do  well  in  any 
well-protected  bed.  To  develop  it  in  per- 
fection the  soil  should  be  dug  to  a  depth 
of  a  foot  and  a  half,  filled  to  a  foot  with 
swamp  muck  and  leaf  mold  or  fresh 
manure,  and  the  hole  filled  with  six  inches 
of  peat  and  rich  mold.  The  bulbs  should 
be  planted  four  or  five  inches  deep,  or,  of 
the  weaker  sorts,  three  or  four  inches.  Most 
of  the  species  are  quite  hardy,  but  it  is  ad- 
vantageous to  cover  them  with  a  deep  com- 
post before  winter. 

The  cultivation  of  the  rose  needs  no 
special  directions.  The  plants,  once  rooted, 
last  for  years,  and  bloom  freely  with  little 
cultivation  ;  some  once  only  in  the  season, 
others  continually.  They  are  nearly  all 
hardy,  though  many  require  some  degree  of 
winter  protection. 

North  America  has  furnished  our  gar- 
dens with  various  handsome  flowers,  among 
them  the  large  and  beautiful  dahlia,  whose 
very  numerous  varieties,  more  than  two 
thousand  in  all,  have  been  derived  by  culti- 
vation from  two  spec'es  of  Mexican  plants. 
The  neat  grace  and  perfection  of  their  floral 
forms  and  great  variety  of  shades  of  scarlet, 
crimson,  purple,  red  and  yellow,  give  them 
a  special  adaptation  to  floral  borders,  where 
they  lift  their  trim  heads  with  an  air  of 
pride.  No  plants  surpass  these  in  their  in- 
clination to  sport  into  new  varieties.  The 
dahlias  are  generally  cultivated  by  the  divis- 
ion of  the  tuberous  roots.  These  will  not 
bear  the  frosts  of  northern  climates,  and 
must  be  taken  up  as  soon  as  frost  blackens 
the  tops  and  kept  for  winter  in  a  dry  and 
suflSciently  warm  place. 

Another  handsome  garden  plant  of  North 
American  origin  is  the  familiar  and  favorite 


phlox,  which  bears  its  flowers  in  terminal 
panicles.  The  original  form,  once  much 
grown  in  our  gardens,  is  now  rarely  met 
with,  the  showy  phloxes  of  to-day  being  all 
hybridized  varieties,  the  production  of  the 
florists.  They  are  highly  ornamental  in 
character.  One  species,  the  drumjnondii, 
has  sported  into  a  variety  of  beautiful  colors, 
and  is  one  of  the  most  showy  of  cultivated 
annuals. 

Among  the  wild  flowers  of  the  United 
States  the  most  magnificent  when  in  bloom 
is  the  rhododendron,  which  forms  impene- 
trable thickets  in  many  parts  of  the  AUe- 
ghanies,  and,  with  its  related  plant,  the 
mountain  laurel,  gives  a  wonderful  charm  in 
the  floral  season  to  the  Appalachian  moun- 
tain glens,  from  Maine  to  Georgia.  The 
cultivated  rhododendron  is  produced  by 
hybridization  between  the  American  and 
several  Asiatic  species,.  In  the  hands  of 
the  florist  it  has  attained  a  wonderful  ex- 
uberance of  form  and  color,  the  highly- 
cultivated  varieties  being  unequaled  for 
richness  of  hue  and  showiness  and  profusion 
of  petals.  It  is  a  hardy  plant,  and  will  win- 
ter out  of  doors,  calling  for  no  special  care 
or  cultivation.  This,  of  course,  does  not 
apply  to  the  floral  monstrosities  annually 
exhibited,  as  results  of  the  exaggerated  care 
of  flower  fanciers. 

We  have  named  here  only  a  few  of  the 
better  known  of  an  innumerable  variety  of 
flowers,  very  many  of  which  are  adapted  for 
house  cultivation  or  garden  growth  ;  but,  as 
their  treatment  does  not  vary  greatly,  and 
in  special  cases  must  be  learned  largely  by 
experience,  we  shall  say  no  more  here  upon 
this  attractive  subject. 


I 


BOOK  III. 

THE  Practical  Mechanic 

Here  are  pages  which  will  probably  save  the  small  cost  of  the  whole 
volume  many  times  over,  in  the  numerous  expenses  for  repairs  which  they 
will  do  away  with,  and  will  also  inspire  the  housekeeper  or  the  male  members 
of  the  family  to  add  many  home-made  articles  of  comfort  and  convenience  to 
the  housekeeping  outfit.  Mending  broken  furniture,  windows,  brick  or 
stone  work,  plumbing,  painting,  wall  paper,  and  the  thousands  of  things 
about  a  house  which  are  liable  to  get  out  of  order,  means  money  in  pocket  if 
you  can  do  it  without  having  to  call  in  a  high-priced  mechanic.  There  are 
many  men  who  could  employ  evenings  in  making  handsome  and  durable 
pieces  of  furniture,  and  at  the  end  of  the  year  find  themselves  richer  and  more 
comfortable  for  it.  The  value  of  this  section  of  the  work  can  scarcely  be 
overestimated.  All  the  directions  are  so  clear  that  the  most  inexperienced 
can  scarcely  go  astray. 


SPECIAL  DECORATIONS 

The  table  is  prepared  for  a  special  occasion  and  profusely  decorated  with  flags,  potted  plants  and 

vines.     This   answers   for   all    patriotic   occasions.     At    the   right   is   a 

beautiful  window  box  and  hanging  basket. 


TABLE    DECORATIONS 

A  happy  suggestion  for  the  arrangement  and  decoration  of  a  dinner-table  for  a  special  occasion,  tuch 

as  a  wedding  dinner.     The  contrast  of  light  draperies  on  the  walls 

and  the  green  of  the  plants  is  very  effective. 


The  Practical  Mechanic 

HOW  TO    MAKE   YOUR  OWN    REPAIRS— HELPS  IN    CARPENTERING, 

BRICKLAYING,  METAL  WORKING,  PAPER  HANGING,  AND  OTHER 

USEFUL   OCCUPATIONS— INSTALLATION   OF   ELECTRIC 

BELLS,  TELEPHONES  AND  OTHER  MECHANICAL 

APPLIANCES— PRACTICAL  RECIPES 

AND  DIRECTIONS. 


EVERY  MAN  HIS  OWN  MECHANIC 


Mend  your  broken  chairs  and  crippled 
furniture ;  put  fresh  panes  of  glass  into 
your  broken  windows  ;  do  your  own  re- 
pairs as  far  as  it  is  practicable,  indoors  and 
out  of  doors  ;  look  after  your  own  locks  and 
fastenings;  make  your  own  garden  tools 
and  appliances  ;  put  up  your  own  sheds, 
greenhouses,  and  garden  buildings,  and  I 
shall  answer  for  it  that  if  you  check  what 
you  save  on  each  job,  you  will  find  your- 
self in  pocket  at  the  end  of  the  year  merely 
through  resorting  to  self-help. 

Let  us  take  a  simple  case  of  common 
occurrence,  as  for  example,  a  broken  win- 
dow, and  see,  by  comparing  the  cost  of  re- 
pairs when  executed  by  a  glazier  on  the  one 
hand,  and  done  by  the  householder  himself 
on  the  other,  how  much  may  be  saved  by 
means  of  a  little  practical  knowledge  and 
self-help. 

Broken  Window,  How  to  Mend  It. 

We  shall  first  look  into  the  cost  of  the 
work  when  the  householder  is  his  own 
mechanic.  The  man  who  lays  himself  out 
to  do  odd  jobs  of  this  kind  will  of  course 
have  at  hand  the  tools  necessary  for  carry- 
ing out  the  work,  namely,  a  hammer,  a 
suitable  knife  for  hacking  out  or  cutting 
away  the  hardened  putty  and  fragments  of 
glass  still  remaining  in  the  window  frame, 


117 


and  a  putty  knife.  The  first  thing  to  be 
done  is  to  clear  the  rebate  or  groove  in  the 
sash-frame  for  the  reception  of  the  new  pane 
The  next  step  is  to  measure  accurately  the 
length  and  breadth  of  the  aperture,  includ- 
ing the  rebate,  and  procure  a  piece  of  glass 
of  the  required  size  from  any  painter  and 
glazier  or  store  which  cuts  glass  for  those 
who  may  require  it.  A  little  putty  must 
also  be  procured.  Now,  supposing,  that  the 
glass  measures  18  in.  by  12  in.,  or,  in  other 
words,  contains  one  and  a  half  superficial 
feet,  the  cost  of  the  glass  will  be  10  cents. 
The  cost  of  the  putty  may  be  reckoned  at 
I  cent,  putty  generally  speaking  being  5 
cents  per  pound,  though  it  may  be  fre- 
quently purchased  at  the  paint  store  for  4 
cents  per.  pound.  The  expense,  then,  of 
putting  things  as  they  were  before  to  the 
householder  who  can  use  his  hands  is  no 
more  than  11  or  12  cents.  It  will  cost  25 
cents  or  more  if  a  journeyman  is  called  in. 
It  may  be  argued  that  a  man  who  as- 
pires to  be  his  own  mechanic  cannot  possi- 
bly gain  a  sufficient  knowledge  of  all  or  any 
of  the  various  building  trades  to  enable  him 
to  do  the  necessary  work  of  construction  or 
repairs  in  a  workmanlike  manner,  and  that 
even  if  he  could  do  so  he  would  never  be 
able  to  find  time  enough  to  do  all  that  may 
be  wanted  in  house  and  garden  from  year's 

3 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


end  to  year's  end.  Yet,  so  far  as  time  is 
concerned,  it  may  be  pointed  out  at  once 
that  the  most  hard-worked  man  has  his 
regular  or  occasional  half-holiday,  to  say 
nothing  of  the  summer  evenings  when 
there  is  light  enough  for  handi-craft 
work  even  after  8  o'clock  ;  and  if  these 
be  not  enough,  he  must — as  people  are  often 
told  to  do  who  object  that  they  can  find 
no  time  for  this,  that,  and  the  other — make 
time. 

Knowledge  Must  Be  Paid  For. 

It  is  good  policy,  then,  tor  every  man 
who  seeks  to  do  a  little  as  a  handicrafts- 
man, to  lay  out  a  few  dollars  in  obtaining 
theservices  of  any  moderately  skilled  artisan , 
who,  for  such  a  sum,  would  willingly  show 
the  aspirant  how  to  use  his  tools,  and  how 
to  keep  them  in  working  order.  Thus,  for 
example,  if  a  man  desired  to  follow  up  car- 
pentry, it  will  be  beneficial  to  him  in  the 
highest  degree  to  enlist  the  services  of  a 
carpenter  who  v/ill  show  him  how  to  use 
his  saw  and  his  plane,  and  how  to  keep  his 
saw  fit  for  use  by  sharpening  it  with  a  file, 
and  his  plane  and  other  cutting  tools  in 
proper  condition  by  means  of  the  grind- 
stone and  oilstone.  If,  again,  he  wished  to 
be  able  to  build  a  brick  wall,  he  should  get 
a  bricklayer  to  show  him  how  to  prepare 
his  foundations  with  spade  and  level,  and 
how  to  put  in  the  footings  of  his  wall,  and 
to  raise  it,  course  after  course,  so  that  its 
faces  within  and  without,  may  be  truly 
perpendicular,  inclining  neither  to  the  one 
side  nor  the  other.  Having  once  learned  how 
to  do  a  thing,  a  fairly  intelligent  man  will 
not  require  so  very  much  practice  to  enable 
him  to  do  such  work  as  inclination  or 
necessity  may  suggest,  in  a  tolerably  work- 
manlike manner. 

Carpentry  Most  Desirable. 

If  it  be  asked  what  branch  of  handi- 
craft trade,  or,  to  bring  matters  within  a 
narrower  compass,  what  branch  of  the 
building  trade  is  most  suitable  and  most 
useful  for  amateurs  generally,  and  house- 
holders especially,  it  must  be  answered  that 
a  knowledge  of  carpentry  and  joinery  will 
be  found  by  far  the  most  desirable.  Next 
to  this,  it  is  necessary  to  know  something 


Ii8 


about  painting  and  glazing,  which  comes 
fairly  within  the  province  of  the  amateur 
Collaterally  with  these  useful  arts,  paper 
hanging  may  be  mentioned.  It  is  unlikely 
that  a  man  will  do  much  smith's  work,  but 
even  in  this  it  is  possible  for  an  amateur  to 
do  something,  and  a  slight  acquaintance 
with  the  arts  of  brazing,  soldering,  and 
working  in  metals  will  enable  a  man  to 
make  propagating  cases  that  shall  do  him 
good  service,  and  apparatus  for  heating  a 
small  greenhouse,  if  he  have  one,  at  little 
expense,  even  if  he  still  leaves  it  to  the 
peripatetic  knife-grinder  and  tinman  to  stop 
up  holes  in  leaking  coffee-pots  and  sauce- 
pans, and  to  renew  the  damaged  bottoms  of 
colanders  and  milk -strainers. 

Bricklaying  and  Masonry. 

Bricklaying  and  masonry  are  trades  which 
possibly  an  amateur  will  not  meddle  much 
with  ;  but  some  slight  acquaintance  with 
the  principles  of  each,  and  the  materials 
employed,  is  desirable,  even  if  it  be  for  no 
other  or  better  purpose  than  that  of  giving 
an  eye  to  any  workman  who  may  be  em- 
ployed in  this  way  on  the  premises,  in  order 
to  see  that  he  is  doing  his  work  in  a  work- 
manlike manner,  that  he  is  using  proper 
materials,  and  that  he  is  not  wasting  his 
time — a  thing  which  no  workman  who  has 
any  self-respect  will  do.  It  is,  however, 
quite  as  well  to  be  able  to  know  oneself  how 
to  set  a  stone  or  step  that  has  become  loose 
by  one  cause  or  another,  in  cement,  and 
how  to  prepare  the  cement  for  the  work  ; 
and  know  in  what  proportions  sand  and 
cement  should  be  mingled  for  the  purpose 
of  making  a  suitable  composition  for  fixing 
the  step  once  again,  so  that  it  may  remain 
immovable  in  its  proper  position. 

Excavating. 

Lastly,  a  knowledge  of  excavating  in 
all  its  branches  is  attended  with  advantage. 
In  the  term  "excavating"  a  far  greater 
variety  of  work  is  comprised  than  appears 
upon  the  face  of  it  at  first  sight.  It  means 
far  more  than  digging  or  hollowing  out  a 
pit,  as  for  a  well  or  a  trench,  or  for  the 
foundation  of  a  wall.  It  embraces  these,  it 
is  true,  but  it  also  implies  a  knowledge  of 
the  manufacture — if  we  may  use  the  word — 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


% 


of  concrete,  and  tte  purposes  to  which  it  is 
put,  of  making  garden  walks  and  paths,  and 
of  leveling,  so  far  as  it  may  be  applied  to 
the  construction  of  drains  for  carrying  off 
the  surplus  water  from  the  soil  of  the  gar- 
den, or  even  from  a  stable  or  pigsty,  and 
the  laying  of  drain-pipes  for  this  purpose. 
It  also  gathers  within  its  wide  embrace  a 
knowledge  of  the  method  of  making  tar 
paving  and  burning  clay  into  ballast — pro- 
cesses which  will  often  be  found  extremely 
useful  in  the  garden. 

Kinds  and  Prices  of  Materials. 

It  is  important  for  every  one  who  at- 
tempts to  work  in  wood  that  he  should  be 
familiar  with  the  various  kinds  of  wood 
that  are  used,  and  the  purposes  for  which 
each  is  specially  adapted.  Experience  will 
show  that  wood  which  is  admirably  fitted 
for  one  kind  of  work  is  by  no  means  suit- 
able for  another.  The  prices,  too,  of  differ- 
ent sorts  of  wood  differ  as  much  as  their 
qualities,  and  it  is  desirable  that  tne  amateur 
artisan  should  become  acquainted  with  these 
to  some  extent,  that  he  may  know  what  he 
is  about  when  he  is  making  purchases  of 
his  timber  merchant.  A  knowledge  of  the 
prices  of  the  different  kinds  of  wood  used  in 
building  and  furniture  making  will  also  be 
useful  to  him  in  other  ways.  For  example, 
if  he  intends  to  put  up  even  so  unambitious 
a  structure  as  a  weather-boarded  shed,  he 
can,  after  making  his  plans  and  working 
drawings,  calculate  to  a  nicety  the  quantity 
of  wood  that  will  be  wanted,  and  its  cost  at 
the  timber  yard  ;  and  if  he  finds  that  the 
job  will  run  into  more  money  than  he  ex- 
pected, he  can  modify  his  plans  and  the 
mode  of  structure  to  suit  his  pocket. 

Working  Drawings. 

We  would  urge  strongly  on  the  amateur 
artisan  the  necessity  of  preparing  careful 
plans  and  working  drawings  to  scale  of  any 
piece  of  work  that  he  is  about  to  take  in 
hand,  whether  large  or  small,  before  he  at- 
tempts to  put  it  in  hand.  It  is  an  old  but 
true  saying,  that "  Well  begun  is  half  done," 
and  the  worker  in  wood  or  stone  or  any 
other  building  material  will  be  led  to  appre- 
ciate its  truth  and  wisdom  when  he  finds 
how  helpful  the  making  of  correct  and  care- 


ful plans  and  drawings  will  be  to  him  in  the 
actual  performance  of  the  work  in  question. 
The  whole  mode  of  procedure — what  he  has 
to  do  and  how  he  must  do  it — will  be  clearly 
fixed  in  his  mind  before  he  even  touches  the 
material  which  he  is  about  to  work  up  into 
the  desired  form  or  object,  and  he  will  al- 
ways find  the  execution  of  the  work  to  be 
quicker  or  slower,  according  to  the  extent 
to  which  he  has  previously  worked  out  his 
plans  in  his  mind,  and  committed  them  to 
paper. 

Kinds  of  Woods  Generally  Used  in  Ordi- 
nary Carpentry. 

Of  all  the  different  kinds  of  wood,  deal,  or 
pine,  is  that  with  which  the  amateur  will  be 
most  frequently  employed,  and  of  which  it 
is  most  necessary  that  he  should  know  the 
prices  and  sizes  at  and  in  which  it  can  be  pro- 
cured at  the  timber  yard .  We  shall  now  en- 
deavor to  convey  some  idea  of  the  nature  of 
a  few  common  kinds  of  wood,  and  the  pur- 
poses for  which  they  are  or  may  be  used. 

The;  Ash  is  a  hardy  deciduous  tree, 
found  generally  in  northern  latitudes.  In 
color  the  wood  is  greenish  white  when 
young,  but  the  grain  of  timber  cut  from 
old  trees  is  often  dark  and  beautifully 
marked.  When  in  this  condition  it  is  fre- 
quently used  by  the  cabinet-maker.  Its 
toughness,  elasticity,  and  closeness  of  grain 
render  the  wood  useful  for  making  the  frames 
of  carriages,  agricultural  implements,  felloes 
of  wheels,  etc.  Hammer  handles  and  bil- 
liard-cues are  frequently  made  of  Ash,  as 
well  as  the  handles  of  croquet-mallets,  and 
it  is  much  used  by  coopers.  It  admits  of 
being  bent  almost  double  without  snapping, 
and  on  that  account  it  is  well  adapted  to  be 
used  for  curved  work. 

The;  Beech,  a  hardy  deciduous  tree,  is 
found  in  the  northern  States  and  Canada. 
The  color  varies  ;  it  is  mostly  light  or  whit- 
ish brown  in  tint,  but  is  found  in  all  shades 
of  brown,  deepening  at  times  to  black. 
The  wooc'  •«  fine  and  straight-grained,  and 
is,  iti  CO-*  sequence,  easily  worked.  The 
grain  resc_ables  that  of  mahogany,  and  it  is 
often  stained  to  represent  it.  It  is  used  in 
the  manufacture  of  furniture-tables,  beds, 
and  chairs  being  made  of  it.  It  may  be 
stained  to  im'tate  ebony  and  rosewood. 


119 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


The  Birch  is  a  forest  tree  of  graceful 
appearance,  found  in  cold  and  temperate 
regions,  and  on  elevated  situations,  such  as 
the  sides  of  mountains  in  warmer  countries. 
The  wood  is  white,  firm,  and  tough,  and  is 
Msed  especially  in  northern  countries  for  mak- 
ing wheels,  casks  and  tubs,  and  in  turnery. 

The  wood  known  as  Chestnut  is  de- 
rived from  two  widely  different  kinds  of 
trees — the  Horse  Chestnut  and  the  Spanish 
or  Sweet  Chestnut.  The  white  brittle  wood 
of  the  Horse  Chestnut  is  used  by  turners  in 
making  fancy  goods.  The  wood  of  the 
Sweet,  or  Edible,  Chestnut,  is  hard  and 
durable,  and  beautifully  grained  and  varie- 
gated. Furniture  is  sometimes  made  of  it, 
and  it  is  used  with  effect  for  decorative  pur- 
poses in  building. 

The  name  of  Pine  is  given  to  the  timber 
of  a  great  variety  of  cone-bearing  trees, 
although  the  deal  or  pine  cut  from  different 
trees  varies  considerably  in  quality  and  gen- 
eral utility.  It  may  be  broadly  distinguished 
as  Red  or  Yellow  Pine — for  the  names  are 
indifferently  used — and  White  Pine.  In  the 
one  kind,  the  ground  color  of  the  wood  is 
yellow,  diversified  with  markings  of  pale 
red;  in  the  other  kind, the  wood  is  of  a 
whitish  color,  whence  its  name.  The  Amer- 
ican White  Pine  is  highly  esteemed  in  car- 
pentry work  from  its  softness  and  the  ease 
with  which  it  can  be  worked.  While  not 
strong,  it  is  durable.  The  difference  in  the 
two  kinds  of  wood  is  this  :  the  grain  of  the 
Yellow  Pine  is  generally  very  straight  and 
free  from  knots,  and  it  is  very  durable, 
though  it  is  soft  and  easily  worked.  This 
renders  it  peculiarly  appropriate  for  all 
building  purposes,  whether  in  the  construc- 
tion of  houses  or  ships.  The  great  height 
and  straightness  of  the  pine  renders  it  well 
suited  for  the  masts  of  ships  ;  and  when 
stained  and  varnished  the  timber  presents  a 
handsome  appearance  for  joiners'  work  in 
houses.  White  Pine  is  harder  and  not  so 
straight-grained  as  Yellow  Pine,  and  it  is 
generally  full  of  knots.  The  variety  known 
as  Silver  Fir  is  used  for  flooring,  and  also  in 
the  manufacture  of  household  furniture. 

The  Oak.  The  best  Oak  timber  in  the 
world  is  grown  in  America  and  Great 
Britain,  from  whose  forests,  until  iron  came 
so  much  into  use  for  ship  building,  all  the 


Oak  was  derived  for  the  splendid  fleeti 
which  have  commanded  the  sovereignty  of 
the  seas.  Although  the  grain  is  somewhat 
open — too  open,  indeed,  for  the  purposes 
of  the  turner — the  wood  is  extremely  hard 
and  durable,  but  difficult  to  work,  and  apt 
to  take  the  edge  pretty  quickly  off  the  work- 
man's  tools.  The  wood  is  dark  in  color 
and  susceptible  of  a  high  polish.  It  is 
much  used  in  house  building,  for  houses  of 
the  better  class,  for  floors,  staircases,  doors, 
the  paneling  of  rooms,  etc.,  and  for  tables, 
chairs,  sideboards,  and  other  pieces  of 
housciiold  lUrniture. 

'TM,^  Poplar.  This  wood  is  white,  soft, 
and  brittle,  and  is  chiefly  used  in  the  manu- 
facture of  boxes,  cases,  and  children's  toys. 
The  softness  of  the  wood  causes  glass  grind- 
ers and  lapidaries  to  use  horizontal  sections 
as  polishing  wheels.  The  wood  of  the  pop- 
lar is  not  liable  to  shrink,  warp,  or  swell. 
The  fret-sawyer  will  find  it  useful  for  back- 
grounds, linings,  and  veneered  work. 

The  wood  of  the  Walnut  is  extremely 
useful  and  valuable,  and  is  used  in  the  arts 
for  many  purposes,  of  which  not  the  least 
important  is  that  of  the  manufacture  of 
ornamental  furniture.  Its  only  drawback 
is  its  want  of  density,  which  renders  it 
liable  to  injury  from  blows  and  rough 
usage.  It  is  as  useful  to  the  turner  as  to 
the  cabinet-maker,  and  works  well  in  the 
lathe.  It  is  desirable  to  get  walnut  wood 
from  old,  well-grown  trees,  for  the  older  the 
tree  the  more  beautiful  and  diversified  are 
the  markings  of  the  wood. 

For  fret- sawing  and  all  kinds  of  cabinet 
work,  the  wood  known  as  Black  Walnut 
is  the  most  suitable.  Unless  well  seasoned 
by  kiln-drying,  or  some  similar  process,  it 
is  apt  to  warp  and  split.  It  will  take  a 
beautiful  polish,  and  still  look  well.  Plain 
oiling  seems  to  harden  the  fibre,  and  a  dead 
polish  will  often  show  better  in  the  work 
than  though  it  shone  like  a  mirror.  This 
wood  ought  never  to  be  varnished,  since  this 
gives  a  common  look  to  the  article,  as  it 
always  brings  out  the  grain. 

The  White  Walnut,  known  in  the 
United  States  as  the  butternut,  is  a  pretty 
wood,  but  soft.  It  cuts  clean,  and  is 
adapted  for  many  kinds  of  work,  which, 
however,  must  not  be  delicate  in  design. 
20 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


It  Has  the  same  grain  as  Black  Walnut, 
stains  well,  and  shows  oiling  to  advantage. 

Strength  and  Breaking  Strain. 

The  most  important  qualities  of  build- 
ing material  necessary  to  consider  are  its 
strength  and  breaking  strain  or  breaking 
weight,  and  the  amount  of  pressure  which 
can  be  safely  laid  upon  it  in  accordance 
with  its  form,  thickness,  position,  etc. 
It  has  been  ascertained  by  actual  ex- 
perimentj  that  the  strength  of  a  beam  or 
girder  of  timber,  and  hence  of  any  piece  of 
timber,  whether  large  or  small,  increases 
directly  as  the  width ,  and  as  the  square  of 
the  depth.  Thus,  if  a  piece  of  wood  meas- 
uring three  inches  in  breadth  and  three 
Inches  in  depth — that  is  to  say,  nine  inches 
square  in  section — will  bear  a  certain  weight, 
a  beam  six  inches  broad  and  three  inches 
deep  will  bear  twice  the  weight ;  but  a  beam 
three  inches  broad  and  six  inches  deep  will 
h^2sfour  times  the  weight.  The  strength  is 
also  inversely  as  the  length.  If  two  beams 
of  equal  breadth  and  depth  betaken,  but  one 
of  them  be  twice  as  long  as  the  other,  the 
longer  beam  will  only  bear  half  the  breaking 
weight  that  the  shorter  one  will  sustain,  or, 
in  other  words,  will  be  only  half  as  strong. 

It  will  now  be  clear  why,  in  laying  joists 
to  sustain  a  floor,  the  timbers  are  so  placed 
as  to  have  considerable  depth  from  top  to 
bottom,  while  the  breadth  is  comparatively 
narrow. 

A  continued  strain  tends  to  weaken  the 
povv^er  of  resistance  in  a  beam,  and  the  power 
will  be  lessened  still  more  when  the  weight 
is  variable,  or  is  a  rolling  instead  of  a 
dead  weight.  The  nature  of  the  wood  must 
also  be  taken  into  account :  thus,  some  in 
which  the  fibre  is  long  and  the  grain  straight 
will   bend   to   a   verj'   great   degree,  whik 


others  in  which  the  grain  is  short  and  close 
will  scarcely  bend  at  all,  but  break  sud- 
denly. In  framing  timber,  as  the  carpenter 
is  called  upon  to  do,  all  these  points  must 
be  taken  into  consideration. 

The  instantaneous  breaking  weight  of 
any  kind  of  wood  is  the  weight  under  which 
it  will  give  way  and  break  when  loaded  with 
the  weight  in  the  centre.  It  has  been  said 
that  the  load  with  which  a  beam  may  be 
weighted  without  risk  should  never  exceed 
more  than  one-third  oi  tho.  breaking  weight ; 
but  it  is  better  and  safer  never  to  let  the 
load  exceed  one-fourih  of  the  breaking 
weight.  Indeed,  it  is  argued  that  timber  is 
permanently  injured  if  more  than  this  is 
applied  to  it.  The  best  authorities  on  car- 
pentry say  that  a  load  cannot  be  looked  on 
as  safe  if  it  exceeds  one-fifth  part  of  the 
breaking  weight. 

It  is  by  no  means  a  difiicult  thing  to 
find  the  breaking  weight  of  every  piece  of 
timber,  and,  this  being  known,  the  load  that 
it  will  sustain  without  injury  ;  this  as  it  has 
just  been  shown,  estimated  by  different 
authorities  at  from  one-fifth  to  one-third  of 
the  breaking  weight.  The  following  is  a 
general  rule  for  finding  the  breaking  weight 
in  the  middle  for  girders  of  wood  supported 
at  both  ends  : 

Rule. — Multiply  the  bi'eadth  in  inches  by 
the  square  of  the  depth  in  inches,  mid  divide 
by  the  le7igth  of  bearing  in  feet.  The  result 
obtained,  when  multiplied  by  a  certain  con- 
stant or  invariable  quantity,  for  the  kind  of 
timber  tmder  consideration ,  gives  the  breaking 
weight  in  the  centre  in  hundredweights. 

This  constant  or  invariable  quantity, 
which  has  been  determined  by  a  series  of 
experiments,  is  stated  by  Barlow  to  be :  For 
Ash,  6  ;  for  Oak,  5  ;  for  Pitch  Pine,  5  ;  foi 
Red  Pine,  4  ;  for  White  Pine,  3. 


TOOLS   USED  IN  CARPENTRY 


An  able  author  and  artisan,  describes 
the  tools  used  in  carpentry  in  groups  as  fol- 
lows, namely,  "Striking  tools,  saws,  cut- 
ting tools,  planes,  boring  tools,  pincers, 
guides,  and  auxiliary  appliances."  It 
seems  possible,  however,  to  render  the  classi- 
fication more  complete  by  the  following 
arrangement : 

2qB.R.  -  J2I 


I.  Striking  Tools. 

1.  Tools  that  are  tised  for  striking  only^, 

as  Hammers  and  Mallets. 

2 .  Tools  that  are  used  for  striking  and  cut- 

ting, as  Hatchets,  Axes,  Adzes,  etc. 
II.  Rasping  Tools,  or  Tools  that  act 

BY  abrasion. 

I.  Saws  of  all  kinds,  for  cutting  wood. 


8 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


2.  Rasps  and  Files,  for  smoothing,  shap- 
ing, cutting,  etc. 

Til.  Paring  Tools  of  all  Kinds. 

1 .  Planes  of  various  kinds,  for  smoothing, 

moulding,  etc. 

2.  Spokeshaves  and  Drawing-knives . 

3.  Chisels  and  Gouges. 

IV.  Boring  Tools. 

1.  Bradawls,  Gimlets,  a7id  Angers. 

2.  Brace  and  Bit,  sometitnes  called  Stock 

and  Bit. 

V.  Holding  or  Grasping  Tools. 

1 .  Pincers  and  Pliers ,  Nippers,  Spammers, 

and  Wrenches . 

2.  The  Vice,  i7icludhig  Ha7id-vice,  Bench- 

Vice,  etc. 

VI.  Tools  of  Guidance  and  Direction. 

1 .  The  Carpefiter' s  Rule  and  Chalk  Line. 

2.  The  Square,  Bevel,  Gauge,  Mortishig- 

Gauge,  Mitre- Box. 

3.  Spirit  Level,  Straight  Edge,   Plumb 

and  Level. 

4.  Compasses  and  Callipers. 

VII.  Miscellaneous  Tools  not  subject 

TO  Classification. 

I.  Screwdriver,  Nail-punch,  Scriber,  Ry- 
iner  or  Reamer,  etc. 

Striking  Tools. 

Of  hammers,  the  amateur  should  possess 
three — namely,  an  ordinary  joiner's  hammer 
for  heavy  work,  a  lighter  one  of  the  same 
form  for  medium  work,  and  a  light  ham- 
jier  with  a  small  face,  usually  known  as  a 
"ladies'  hammer,"  for  driving  brads  and 
.^mall  fine  nails  into  small  light  work.  If 
he  determines  to  do  any  veneering,  there  is  a 
special  kind  of  hammer  used  for  this  pur- 
pose which  must  be  obtained. 

Many  other  kinds  of  hammers  are  used 
fur  various  kinds  of  work,  but  those  named 
will  be  sufficient  for  the  amateur's  purpose. 

In  striking  a  tool  with  a  wooden  handle, 
as  a  chisel,  the  wooden  mallet,  not  the 
hammer,  should  be  used,  a  convenient  size 
having  a  head  6  inches  long  and  2^  by  3}^ 
inches  wide  in  face.  The  amateur  must 
remember  that  tools  of  a  medium  size  are 
always  likely  to  be  most  useful  to  him. 

12 


The  tools  that  are  used  for  cutting  as 
well  as  striking,  whose  blow  severs  or  splits 
as  well  as  drives  forward,  are  the  adze  and 
axe,  or  hatchet.  The  adze  is  not  likely  to 
be  required  by  the  amateur ;  it  is  used 
chiefly  by  shipwrights  in  ship  building,  and 
sometimes  by  the  carpenter.  It  is  with  the 
Axe  or  Hatchet  that  the  amateur  artisan 
is  more  immediately  concerned,  and  this  is 
a  tool  that  he  cannot  do  without,  for  it  may 
be  made  useful  in  a  variety  of  ways.  In 
framing  timber  together  it  can  be  used  as  a 
hammer,  instead  of  the  heavy  carpenter's 
hammer,  which  the  amateur  need  not  place 
among  his  tools  ;  and  for  sharpening  stakes 
or  cutting  down  timber  to  the  size  required 
in  the  rough,  or  for  splitting  pieces  of  wood, 
it  is  invaluable.  It  should  be  kept  well 
sharpened,  for  a  blunt  axe  is  useless  for  any 
purpose,  so  far  as  cutting  is  concerned,  ex- 
cept splitting  firewood. 

Rasping  Tools. 

Rasping  Tools  are  those  which  act  by 
abrasion  or  rubbing  away  the  material  to 
which  they  are  applied. 

There  are  many  kinds  of  saws  in  use, 
but  those  which  the  amateur  artisan  will 
most  require  are  the  Hand  Saw,  Tenon 
Saw,  Dovetail  Saw,  Keyhole  Saw,  and 
Frame  Saw.  These  are  sufficient  for  all 
ordinary  work.  To  these,  in  order  to  save 
wear  and  tear  of  the  hand  saw,  a  saw  called 
a  rip,  or  ripping,  saw  may  be  added.  This 
saw  has  large,  triangular  teeth,  and  is  used 
for  sawing  along  the  grain.  It  is  therefore 
useful  for  sawing  planks,  battens,  and 
boards  the  way  of  the  grain  ;  the  work  be- 
ing done  more  expeditiously  with  a  rip  saw 
than  a  hand  saw. 

The  Hand  Saw  is  generally  useful,  and 
will  serve  the  purpose  of  a  rip  saw  or  a 
panel  saw,  a  finer  kind  of  saw  used  by 
joiners. 

The  Tenon  Saw  is  used  more  especially 
for  cutting  across  the  grain  of  the  wood, 
and  leaves  the  surface  of  the  wood  that  is 
divided  by  it  as  smooth  as  is  possible  when 
the  nature  of  the  operation  is  considered. 
The  blade  is  of  necessity  thin  and  fine,  and, 
in  order  to  keep  it  straight  when  in  use,  it 
is  inserted  into  a  back  of  iron  or  brass.  It 
is  worked  by  means  of  a  handle  differing  in 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


form  from  that  of  the  hand  saw.  A  tenon 
saw  to  be  really  useful  should  be  from  14  to 
18  inches  in  length. 

The  DovETAii.  Saw  and  the  Sash  Saw 
are  nothing  more  than  tenon  saws  of  small 
size,  being  identical  with  these  in  shape  and 
make.  They  range  from  8  to  12  inches  in 
length. 

The  KeyhoIvK  Saw  consists  of  a  long 
narrow  movable  blade.  The  handle  is 
pierced  throughout  with  a  narrow  slit  suffi- 
ciently large  to  allow  of  the  easy  passage  of 
the  saw.  It  is  useful  for  cutting  out  curved 
work,  while  rough  coarse  fretwork  may  be 
done  with  it,  and  perforated  work  for  rough 
carving. 

Rasps,  generally  speaking,  are  used  in 
carpentry  for  cutting  away  or  smoothing 
wood,  or  for  wearing  away  the  sharp  edge 
left  in  a  circular  hole  that  has  been  cut  out 
with  the  keyhole  saw,  so  as  to  impart  a 
bevel  to  it  sloping  from  above  to  the  under 
part.  A  rasp  is  flat  on  one  side  and  slightly 
convex  on  the  other,  and  is  covered  with 
fine  projecting  points  beaten  up  by  a  mallet 
and  'punch.  They  are  of  different  degrees 
of  roughness. 

The  File,  whose  ridges  are  finer  than 
those  of  the  rasp,  is  used  for  cutting  metal 
and  sharpening  saws. 

Paring  Tools. 

Paring  Tools,  or  tools  which  are  used 
for  cleaning  away  the  rough,  ragged  surface 
left  b)^  the  teeth  of  the  saw  and  rendering 
wood  smooth  and  even,  or  otherwise  for 
cutting  wood  into  various  forms  and  shapes, 
are  frequently  called  edge  tools,  as  they 
present  a  sharp,  keen  edge.  Indeed,  if  they 
are  blunt  in  the  least  degree  they  are  not  fit 
for  use.  Watch  an  artisan  at  his  work,  and 
you  will  see  him  frequently  rub  his  plane- 
iron  or  chisel  on  the  oil-stone  in  order  to 
sharpen  it.  An  amateur,  especially  a  be- 
ginner, in  nine  cases  out  of  ten  either  does 
not  think  of  doing  so,  or  altogether  forgets 
that  there  is  any  necessity  for  it,  and  this  is 
one  of  the  chief  reasons  why  amateur's  work 
is  often  so  badly  done. 

It  is  important  for  the  amateur  to  buy 
none  but  good  tools,  and  to  keep  them  under 
lock  and  key.  He  must  supplement  this  by 
keeping  them  clean  and  free  from  rust,  and 


123 


learning  to  whet  the  edges  of  all    cutting 
tools  when  they  show  signs  of  dullness. 

The  tools  that  are  comprised  in  the  first 
group  of  paring  tools  are  Planes.  Of  these 
there  is  a  great  variety,  as  formerly,  before 
molding  was  made  by  machinery,  every 
different  pattern  required  a  different  plane 
or  plane-iron.  The  planes  that  are  most 
necessary  to  an  amateur  are  a  jack-plane 
and  a  smoothing-plane. 

The  Jack-Planb  is  from  15  to  18  inches 
long  and  2^  inches  broad,  and  about  the 
same  in  depth.  Near  one  end  is  a  handle 
projecting  upwards,  and  near  the  other  a 
hole  for  the  reception  of  the  plane-iron, 
which  is  held  in  its  place  by  a  wedge. 
Planes  of  this  description,  and  smoothing- 
planes  also,  are  usually  made  with  double 
irons  ;  that  is  to  say,  with  two  irons  held 
together  by  a  short  screw. 

The  Smoothing-Plank  is  different  from 
the  jack-plane  in  shape,  being  about  8 
inches  long  and  2^  inches  to  3  inches 
broad,  in  the  widest  part  where  the  iron 
issues  from  the  wood,  tapering  to  a  width 
of  about  2  inches  in  front  and  i^  inches 
behind,  so  that  it  may  be  more  easily  held 
in  the  hand.  The  jack-plane  is  used  for 
taking  the  rough  surface  from  the  sawn 
timber,  and  when  this  has  been  removed 
the  smoothing-plane  is  used  to  make  the' 
surface  of  the  wood  perfectly  smooth  and 
even. 

The  SpokeshavE  and  the  Drawing- 
Knife  are  the  tools  that  are  comprised  in  the 
second  division  of  paring  tools.  The  draw- 
ing-knife is  useful  for  reducing  the  size  of 
any  piece  of  wood  that  it  may  be  incon- 
venient to  cut  down  in  any  other  way. 
The  spokeshave,  as  its  name  implies,  may 
be  used  for  imparting  a  smooth  surface  to 
the  spokes  of  wheels,  but  it  is  also  useful 
for  smoothing  down  any  surface  that  is  not 
required  to  be  perfectly  flat.  Thus,  a 
beveled  edge  may  be  given  to  a  round  hole 
of  any  large  size  cut  in  a  piece  of  wood. 
The  drawing-knife  is  always  worked  to- 
wards the  operator,  but  the  spokeshave  may 
be  used  in  a  direction  either  towards  or 
from  the  person  who  is  using  it. 

The  third  and  last  division  of  paring 
tools  comprises  Chisels  and  GouGES.  In 
reality  the  plane  in  its  simplest  form,  as 


ro 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


seen  in  the  jack-plane  and  smoothing-plane, 
is  nothing  more  than  a  chisel  of  consider- 
able width  set  in  a  block  of  wood,  which 
serves  as  a  guide,  and  by  means  of  which 
the  operator  is  enabled  to  work  the  tool 
with  greater  ease  and  accuracy.  A  chisel 
is  a  flat  and  thick  piece  of  steel,  of  which 
the  cutting  end  is  ground  to  a  bevel,  in  or- 
der to  obtain  a  keen  edge,  while  the  other 
is  fashioned  into  a  tang,  with  a  projecting 
shoulder,  which  fits  close  against  the 
wooden  handle  into  which  the  tang  is  in- 
serted. The  gouge  differs  from  the  chisel 
in  being  hollow  instead  of  flat.  Chisels  are 
distinguished  as  firmer  chisels,  paring  chis- 
els, mortising  chisels,  and  turning  chisels. 
It  must  be  said,  however,  that  the  last- 
named  variety  difiers  from  the  other  kinds 
of  chisels  in  being  ground  to  a  bevel  on 
both  sides  instead  of  one  side  only. 

It  may  be  mentioned  that  the  tool  called 
a  cold  chisel  IS  a  long  piece  of  steel,  beveled 
on  both  sides  at  one  end  to  a  blunt  edge, 
used  by  carpenters  and  others  to  knock  out 
a  hole  in  a  wall  of  stone  or  brick  for  the 
insertion  of  a  wedge,  the  end  of  a  piece  of 
timber,  etc. 

About  half-a-dozen  chisels  and  the  same 
number  of  gouges  will  be  the  utmost  num- 
ber that  the  amateur  will  require  ;  and,  for 
both  chisels  and  gouges,  the  widths  to  be 
selected  may  be  placed  at  ^  in.,  Y^  in., 
^  in.,  I  in.,  i^  in.,  and  i>2  in.  The  or- 
dinary carpenter's  chisels  should  be  pur- 
chased first  of  all.  A  few  paring  chisels 
can  be  added  to  the  stock  at  any  time  if 
required. 

Boring  Tools. 

The  tools  comprised  in  the  first  division 
of  boring  tools  are  bradawls,  gimlets,  and 
augers.  These  tools  are,  for  the  most  part, 
extremely  simple  in  construction,  the  brad- 
awl being  a  piece  of  steel  sharpened  at  the 
end  and  fixed  for  convenience  of  use  in  a 
wooden  handle ;  and  the  gimlet  a  piece  of 
steel  so  fashioned  at  one  end  that  it  may 
take  hold  of,  and  cut  its  way  into,  timber, 
and  having  a  small  piece  of  wood  or  iron 
attached  crosswise  at  the  other  end,  which 
serves  as  a  lever  to  turn  the  steel  shank  of 
the  tool,  and  press  it  into  the  wood.  The 
auger  is  only  a  gimlet  on  a  large  scale,  the 


124 


cross  handle  being  turned  by  the  operator 
with  both  hands,  which  are  transferred  from 
end  to  end  of  the  handle  at  every  half-turn 
of  the  tool. 

The  Bit-brace  or  Stock-and-Bit,  is 
the  principal  boring  tool,  and,  indeed,  the 
only  tool  of  this  kind  with  which  the  ama- 
teur artisan  need  concern  himself.  There 
are  breast-drills,  fitted  with  a  plate  to  hold 
against  the  breast,  steadied  with  a  handle 
held  in  the  left  hand,  and  having  a  chuck 
at  the  further  extremity,  in  which  the  drill 
is  placed  and  caused  to  revolve  at  a  rapid 
rate  by  a  large  toothed-wheel  working  in  a 
smaller  wheel,  the  former  being  turned  by  a 
handle  held  in  the  right  hand. 

Other  Tools. 

In  good  carpentry  everything  depends 
on  accuracy  of  measurement  of  parts,  and 
fitting  the  parts  together  at  right  angles,  or 
at  the  required  angle  or  bevel.  For  the  at- 
tainment of  these  most  necessary  requisites, 
tools  of  guidance  and  directioji  of  various 
kinds  are  used,  without  which  it  would  be 
impossible  even  for  a  skilled  carpenter  or 
joiner  to  do  his  work,  and  fit  the  various 
pieces  together  with  the  nicety  that  is  essen- 
tial in  all  operations  of  this  nature.  Thus, 
for  setting  out  a  long,  straight  line  in  rip- 
ping a  slip  of  wood  from  a  board,  a  line  aiid 
}'eel  is  required  ;  and  for  the  measurement  of 
any  length  into  parts,  or  to  measure  any  re- 
quired length,  breadth,  and  thickness,  the 
carpenter's  rule  is  needful.  For  cutting  ofl" 
the  end  of  a  board  at  right  angles  to  the 
edge,  or  for  mortising,  etc.,  the  square  must 
be  used,  and  for  cutting  wood  at  any  given 
angle  to  the  edge,  the  proper  line  of 
direction  for  the  saw  must  be  marked  by  ai(i 
of  the  bevel.  For  cutting  notches  in  wood 
or  for  cutting  or  planing  down  pieces  of 
wood  to  the  same  thickness,  the  necessary 
guide  lines  must  be  marked  b}''  a  marking 
gauge,  while  in  mortising  the  mortise  gauge 
is  used. 

For  joining  pieces  of  wood  at  right 
angles,  as  in  making  a  picture-frame,  re- 
course must  be  had  to  the  mitre  box ;  and 
for  subdividing  any  given  space  into  smallei 
spaces,  or  marking  out  circles  and  sweeps 
of  various  diameters,  the  compasses  must  be 
used.      In  turning,  to  make  sure  of  having 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


II 


the  diameter  of  various  parts  of  the  work  in 
harmony  with  the  pattern,  these  diameters 
must  one  and  all  be  tried  and  regulated  by 
Xh&  callipers  as  the  work  goes  on.  In  bring- 
ing horizontal  bars,  shelves,  etc.,  to  a  true 
level,  the  spb'it  level  must  be  used  ;  and  in 
fixing  a  post  in  the  ground,  or  a  piece  of 
quartering  to  the  wall,  the  icpright  level  with 
cord  and  plumb-bob.  A  straight-edge  is 
useful  for  testing  the  nicety  and  accuracy 
with  which  wood  has  been  planed  up,  and 
for  other  purposes.  We  name  these,  though 
the  amateur  is  not  likely  to  need  them  all. 
There  are  many  miscellaneous  tods  and  ap- 
pliances used  in  carpentry  and  joinery 
which  are  not  subject  to  classification. 
Among  these  we  may  include  the  screw- 
driver, the  nail-punch,  the  reamer  or  rymer, 
the  scriber,  the  cramp,  the  glue-pot,  and  the 
oil-can.  Sand-paper  and  emery-paper  must 
also  be  noticed.  There  is  another  appliance 
called  the  bench  holdfast,  which  is  used  to 
hold  wood  firmly  down  on  the  carpenter's 
bench  when  necessary. 

These  tools  are  so  simple  and  easily  ob- 
tained that  a  description  of  each  is  not  neces- 
sary. In  their  selection  cheapness  is  not  to  be 
considered,  but  accuracy  and  convenience. 

The  Glue-Pot. 

The  GluK-Pot  should  be  in  every 
house,  whether  the  tenant  turns  his  atten- 
tion to  household  carpentry  or  not.  So 
many  little  odd  jobs  can  be  done  by  its  aid, 
that,  if  nothing  more  than  a  hammer  and 
screw-driver  be  kept,  a  glue-pot  should  be 
purchased.  For  example,  a  piece  of  veneer 
may  come  off  a  looking-glass  frame,  or  any 
piece  of  furniture,  and  may  be  mislaid  or 
lost  before  a.  carpenter  : happens  to  be  at 
work  in  the  house,  putting  these  and  sim- 
ilar little  matters  in  order.  Now,  if  the 
piece  of  veneer  is  lost  it  will  be  a  costly 
business — that  is  to  say,  costly  in  pro- 
portion to  the  actual  damage — to  replace  it, 
and  if  the  missing  piece  is  not  replaced 
the  appearance  of  the  piece  of  furniture  is 
spoiled,  and  its  value  considerably  deterior- 
ated. But,  if  a  glue-pot  is  at  hand,  the 
damage  may  be  instantly  repaired,  and  if 
the  mending  is  carefully  done,  as  it  ought 
to  be,  the  piece  of  furniture  is  little  the 
worse  for  the  mishap. 


The  glue-pot  is  a  pot  within  a  pot,  the 
outer  and  larger  one  being  of  iron,  and  the 
smaller  one  of  copper  or  iron,  as  the  case 
may  be.  The  glue  is  broken  up  small,  and 
placed  in  the  smaller  pot,  which  fits  into 
the  larger  pot,  the  rim  of  the  former  resting 
on  the  rim  of  the  latter.  Water  is  placed 
in  the  larger  pot,  sufiicient  to  nearly  fill  it 
when  the  smaller  pot  is  put  in.  The  pot  is 
placed  on  or  close  to  the  fire,  and  as  soon 
as  the  water  boils  the  glue  begins  to  melt, 
until  it  is  reduced  to  a  semi-fluid  condition. 

Recipe  for  Making  Glue. 

The  following  is  a  good  recipe  for  mak- 
ing, or,  rather  melting,  glue.  It  is  given  by 
an  authority  in  ' '  Workshop  Receipts  :  ' ' 
"  Break  the  glue  into  small  pieces,  and 
soak  from  twelve  to  twenty-four  hours  in 
cold  water ;  put  the  glue  in  the  glue-pot, 
fill  the  outer  vessel  with  water,  and  apply 
heat.  For  ordinary  purposes  it  should  run 
freely,  and  be  of  the  consistency  of  thin 
treacle.  The  hotter  glue  is,  the  more  force 
it  will  exert  in  keeping  the  two  parts  glued 
together;  in  all  large  and  long  joints  the 
glue  should  be  applied  immediately  after 
boiling.  Glue  loses  much  of  its  strength 
by  being  often  melted ;  that  glue,  there- 
fore, which  is  newly  made  is  preferable 
to  that  which  has  been  used.  When 
done  with,  add  some  of  the  boiling  water 
from  the  outer  vessel  to  the  glue,  so  as  to 
make  it  too  thin  for  immediate  use.  Put  it 
away  till  wanted  again,  and  by  the  time  the 
water  in  the  outer  vessel  is  boiled  the  glue 
in  the  inner  is  ready  melted  and  of  the 
proper  thickness  for  use.  Powdered  chalk, 
brickdust,  or  sawdust,  added  to  glue,  will 
make  it  hold  with  more  than  ordinary  firm- 
ness." 

To  do  any  kind  of  work  in  carpentry 
and  joinery,  with  blunted  tools,  in  a  credita- 
ble and  workman-like  manner  is  simply  im- 
possible. The  professional  carpenter  and 
joiner  will  frequently  stop  in  his  work  to 
put  his  plane-iron  and  chisel  on  the  oil- 
stone— for  he  is  well  aware  of  the  import- 
ance of  having  a  keen  edge  to  all  cutting 
tools  of  this  description — and  he  will  take 
care  to  keep  his  saws  sharpened  and  fit  foi 
use.  It  is  necessary  that  the  amateui 
artisan  should  imitate  the  resrular  mechanic 


125 


12 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


in  this  essential  duty  of  keeping  his  tools  in 
a  fit  condition  to  do  the  work  that  is  re- 
quired of  them. 

Directions  for  Sharpening  Tools. 

Of  course  all  cutting  tools  must  be  pro- 
vided with  a  keen  edge,  and  this  is  obtained 
by  grinding  them  to  a  proper  bevel  on  the 
grindstone  and  afterwards  rubbing  them  on 
the  oil-stone.  Among  striking  tools  the  adze 
and  hatchet  will  require  sharpening  on  the 
grindstone. 

For  sharpening  or  rather  for  grinding 
edge  tools  such  as  plane  irons  and  chisels, 
the  grindstone  is  also  necessary,  finishing 
off  on  an  oil-stone.  It  is  necessary  that  the 
cutting  edge  should  be  made  as  straight  and 
true  as  possible. 

The  following  directions  are  for  grinding 
edge  tools,  which  the  amateur  will  do  well 
to  follow  implicitly,  as  it  is  given  by  a 
practical  wqrkman  of  great  experience.  ' '  In 
grinding  plane  irons,  chisels,  and  similar 
tools,  the  stone  sho7ild  tnrn  towards  the  ope- 
rator,, and  the  tool  should  be  held  very 
firmly  and  quite  squarely  upon  the  stone,  at 
a  point  sufficiently  near  its  upper  part  to 
allow  the  tool  to  be  in  a  nearly  horizontal 
position,  while  its  bevel  lies  flat  upon  it.  If 
it  is  held  too  low,  so  that  its  handle  points 
downwards,  the  water  from  the  stone  will 
run  down  the  hands  and  arms,  which  is  de- 
cidedly disagreeable,  especiall)' in  winter." 
n  addition  the  tool  cannot  be  so  firmly 
held  nor  the  work  so  readily  seen.  Keep 
the  edges  of  the  stone  in  use  by  constantly 
traversing  the  tool  across  its  face,  and 
never  try  to  hurry  the  work  by  grinding  to 
1  more  obtuse  bevel  than  that  made  by  the 
nanufacturer.  This  is,  indeed,  generally 
rather  more  obtuse  than  it  ought  to  be,  and 
carpenters  reduce  this  angle,  and  then  the 
second  bevel,  formed  by  the  oil-stone,  re- 
stores it  correctly.  In  grinding  planes  and 
-hisels,  especially  the  first,  it  is  as  well  for 


the  amateur  to  make  use  of  a  square  to  test 
the  correctness  of  the  edge,  otherwise  the 
latter  may  not  be  truly  at  right  angles  to  the 
side  of  the  tool. 

The  Carpenter's  Bench. 

One  of  the  most  indispensable  essentials 
to  the  performance  of  operations  in  carpen- 
try and  joinery  is  the  carpenter's  bench. 
Nothing  can  be  fairly  done  without  it — ex- 
cept sawing,  for  which  the  stool  is  wanted  ; 
or  mortisin'g,  which  may  also  be  done  on  a 
couple  of  stools  or  trestles,  although  small 
mortises  maybe  cut  on  the  bench.  Planing 
mufet  be  done  entirely  on  the  bench,  the  sur- 
face of  a  board  being  laid  flat  on  the  top  of 
the  bench  and  butted  against  the  bench- 
stop.  In  planing  the  edges,  the  board  must 
be  laid  along  the  side  of  the  bench,  being 
supported  on  pegs  (for  the  reception  of 
which  holes  are  made  along  the  side  itself) 
in  the  middle,  and  at  one  end  nearest  the 
operator,  while  it  is  gripped  and  held  tightly 
against  the  side  by  the  bench-jaw  or  vice  at 
the  other  end. 

How  to  Hold  and  Handle  Tools. 

Having  provided  oneself  with  the  neces- 
sary tools  and  work  bench,  or  such  a  selec- 
tion from  the  whole  as  may  best  meet  his 
requirements,  the  next  thing  to  be  done  is 
to  learn  how  to  use  them.  It  is  next  to  im- 
possible to  do  this  from  printed  instructions  ; 
and  on  the  principle  that  a  little  showing  is 
better  than  a  great  deal  of  telling,  the  best 
advice  that  can  be  given  to  the  amateur  on 
this  head  is  that  he  should  arrange  with 
some  skilled  artisan  to  give  him  a  few  prac- 
tical lessons  in  the  method  of  holding, 
using,  managing,  and  sharpening  his  tools, 
and  the  everyday  operations  in  carpentry 
and  joinery,  such  as  sawing,  planing,  scar- 
fing timbers,  cutting  rebates,  mortises  and 
tenons,  dove-tailing,  mitring,  etc.,  etc. 


THE   DIVISIONS   OF  THE    BUILDING  TRADE 


When  any  art  or  manufacture  begins  to 
assume  importance,  and  there  is  a  continu- 
ally increasing  demand  for  the  articles,  be 
they  what  they  may,  that  are  made  by  those 


who  are  engaged  in  it,  it  has  been  invariably 
found  that  in  due  proportion  to  its  growth 
the  art  or  manufacture,  as  the  case  may  be, 
becomes  divided  and  even  subdivided  into 
126 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


13 


many  and  various  branches,  until  it  is  well- 
nigh  impossible  to  carry  the  subdivision  of 
the  trade  to  a  greater  extent. 

The  building  trade  is  an  aggregation  of 
various  trades  and  their  separate  depart- 
ments, which  have  become  affiliated,  as  it 
were,  and  grouped  together  for  the  better 
attainment  of  the  end  desired. 

Taking  each  a  prominent  and  active 
part  in  the  building  trade  we  find  the  exca- 
vator, bricklayer,  mason,  pavior,  slater, 
plasterer,  carpenter  and  joiner,  sawyer, 
ironmonger,  smith  and  founder,  zinc- 
worker,  wire-worker,  bell-hanger,  gas-fitter, 
plumber,  painter,  decorator,  gilder,  ppper- 
hanger  and  glazier — a  goodly  array  of 
tradesmen  and  artisans  whose  aid  and  co- 
operation is  absolutely  necessary  in  building 
and  finishing  a  house. 

Practical  Knowledge  of  all  the  Trades. 

It  is  in  doing  repairs  of  an  ordinary 
nature  that  the  amateur  will  find  practical 
knowledge  of  the  arts  connected  with  the 
building  trades  of  use  to  him,  in  the  first 
place.  Secondly,  he  will  find  it  of  equal 
val'ite  in  constructing  any  small  building  for 
use  or  ornament,  or  for  both,  out  of  doors, 
or  for  making  any  appliance  within  doors  ; 
and  thirdly,  as  it  has  been  already  urged, 
he  will  find  it  of  even  more  value  in  en- 
abling him  tc  look  after  men  who  may  be  at 
work  on  his  premises,  and  in  seeing  that  the 
work  is  done  in  a  proper  manner. 

Excavations  of  all  kinds  can  easily  be 
compassed  by  the  amateur,  and  he  will  find 
no  difficulty  whatever  in  making  and  using 
concrete.  In  connection  with  this  kind  of 
work  lies  the  making  of  walls  and  paths  of 
all  kinds,  and  no  one  will  deny  that  it  is  of 
advantage  to  the  amateur  to  know  how  to 
do  these  things.  In  building  walls  with 
brick  and  stone  he  will  probably  fail,  and 
more  particularly  because  it  is  by  no  means 
as  easily  done  as  other  kinds  of  work  that 
fall  more  naturally  within  his  compass  ;  but, 
at  the  same  time,  it  is  desirable  to  know 
how  to  repair  and  ' '  point ' '  a  piece  of  gar- 
den wall,  as  it  is  technically  called  ;  to  fix 
a  step  that  has  become  loose  with  cement ; 
to  put  a  piece  of  paving  to  rights  and  relay 
a  loose  paving-stone ;  and  to  repair  a  piece 
13 


127 


of  plastering   that  has   been  displaced  by 
damp  or  other  causes. 

Work  in  Metals. 

Similarly  he  may  not  be  able  to  accom- 
plish much  in  smiths'  work,  but  it  is  cer- 
tainly of  advantage  to  be  able  to  work  in 
iron  so  far  as  to  be  able,  by  aid  of  fire,  ham- 
mer, and  anvil,  to  beat  a  piece  of  iron  into 
any  shape  that  may  be  required,  to  drill  a 
hole,  and  to  turn  a  screw,  which  operations 
come  under  the  category  of  forging.  Cast- 
ing, which  necessitates  the  melting  of  metal 
in  a  furnace  and  running  it  into  a  mold, 
is  an  operation  which  may  well  be  left  to 
the  iron- founder  ;  but  it  is  useful  to  possess 
an  iron  ladle,  and  run  in  lead  round  an  iron 
bar  or  rail  that  has  been  loosened  in  the 
socket  cut  for  it  in  a  stone  coping  or  step. 

Zinc-working,  as  far  as  making  a  simple 
shoot  and  covering  a  small  flat  roof  are  con- 
cerned, and  wire- working  in  the  construc- 
tion of  a  wire  trellis,  hanging  basket,  sieve 
for  sifting  earth  or  cinders,  or  repairing  such 
articles,  are  far  more  practicable ;  and  sol- 
dering and  simple  working  in  sheet  metal 
are  matters  with  which  the  amateur  may 
readily  make  himself  acquainted.  Plumb- 
ing and  gas-fitting,  which  if  badly  and  in- 
efficiently done  may  involve  serious  conse- 
quences, are  best  left  to  professional  artisans  ; 
but  it  is  as  well  to  know  how  to  stop  a  leak 
in  a  pipe  on  an  emergency,  how  to  take 
down  a  gasalier,  clean  it,  and  put  it  in  its 
place  again,  and  how  to  substitute  new  gas- 
burners  for  old  ones  with  safety. 

Decorative  Work. 

In  the  decorative  portions  of  the  build- 
ing trade  he  will  find  no  very  great  difficulty. 
House-painting — that  is  to  say,  covering 
wood  or  metal  with  a  uniform  surface  of  oil 
paint — may  be  easily  managed,  and  to  a 
person  possessed  of  taste  and  manual  skill 
the  work  done  by  the  decorator  will  present , 
no  very  great  difficulty.  Paper-hanging  re- 
quires nothing  more  than  care  and  a  certain 
amount  of  manual  dexterity.  Glazing  is 
more  easily  done  than  most  of  the  work  that 
has  been  mentioned,  but  as  it  involves 
handling  putty  it  is  not,  perhaps,  very  de- 
sirable work.  Still,  it  is  work  that  should 
be  taken  up  and  carried  out  by  the  amateur 


14 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


as  he  can  put  in  a  pane  of  glass  for  about 
half  the  price  at  which  a  professional  glazier 
will  do  it  if  the  work  be  such  as  can  be  done 
at  the  shop,  as  the  glazing  of  a  light  for  a 
pit-frame,  etc.,  and  for  from  one-sixth  to 
one-fourth  the  Drice  charged  if  it  be  a 
window. 

Practical  Points  in   Excavating. 

The  following  facts  with  regard  to  exca- 
vator's work,  may  be  of  use:  "In  loose 
ground  a  man  can  throw  up  about  lo  cubic 
yards  per  day,  but  in  hard  or  gravelly  soils 
5  yards  will  be  a  fair  day's  work.  Three 
men  will  remove  30  yards  of  earth  a  dis- 
tance of  20  yards  in  a  day.  A  yard  (cubic) 
of  concrete  requires  about  3  hours'  labor  to 
mix  and  throw  in,  or  if  in  heavy  masses, 
and  the  materials  handy,  about  2  hours. 
With  regard  to  the  weight  of  materials,  19 
cubic  feet  of  sand,  18  ditto  clay,  24  ditto 
earth,  15)^  ditto  lime,  20  ditto  gravel,  will 
each  weigh  one  ton.  A  cubic  yard  of 
earth  before  digging  will  occupy  about  i^  ■ 
cubic  yards  when  dug.  Sand  and  gravel 
does  not  increase  more  than  one-third  as 
much  as  earth  in  bulk  when  dug,  but  will 
decrease  in  height  one-fourth  more  than 
earth.  A  wheelbarrow  (that  is  to  say  the 
broad,  shallow  barrow  used  by  navvies) 
holds  jV  yard  cube.  A  cubic  yard,  or  27  cubic 
feet  of  earth,  is  a  single  load,  and  contains 
20  bushels  ;  i  ciibic  yard  of  gravel  contains 
18  bushels  in  the  pit ;  when  dug  it  will  in- 
crease nearly  one-third  in  bulk,  but  will 
subside  nearly  one-fourth  in  height,  and  de- 
crease one- fifth  in  bulk  when  formed  into 
embankments.  When  earth  is  well  drained 
it  will  stand  in  embankment  about  i^ 
to  I." 

This  will  prove  a  useful  rule  for  the 
amateur  in  throwing  up  embankments, 
mounds,  etc.,  in  his  grounds  or  garden.  If 
revetted,  to  use  an  engineer's  term,  or  cov- 
ered with  turf,  the  inclination  may  be 
greater,  because  the  roots  of  the  grass  bind 
the  surface  earth  together  and  keep  it  from 
being  washed  down  by  heavy  rains.  This 
will  be  evident  from  an  inspection  of  the 
side  of  a  hedge  or  bank  covered  with  turf 
which  may  be  inclined  to  the  horizontal 
base  line  at  angles  ranging  from  10° 
to  20°. 


J  28 


flaking  Qood  Concrete. 

Concrete,  now  so  much  used  in  forming 
the  foundations  of  buildings  of  every  de- 
scription, and  even  the  walls  themselves,  is 
a  mixture  of  cement  and  sand,  gravel, 
broken  stones,  brick  rubbish,  or  similiar 
materials  in  the  proportion  of  one  part  of 
cement  to  five  or  six  parts  of  any  of  the 
other  ingredients  that  are  used  in  its  manu- 
facture. Good  lime  is  often  used  instead  of 
cement,  but  the  amateur,  if  he  uses  lime  at 
all,  is  advised  to  use  cement  with  it  in  equal 
parts.  The  cement,  being  the  substance 
that  binds  the  gravel  ballast,  etc.,  together 
into  a  solid  mass  impervious  to  water,  is 
technically  called  the  matrix,  and  the  sub- 
stance that  is  added  to  the  lime  is  called  the 
^r eg  ate. 

It  may  be  said  that  any  waste  material 
of  a  hard  nature  may  be  used  as  aggregate 
in  making  concrete,  sand  and  gravel  of  all 
kinds,  including  pea  or  fine  gravel,  pit 
gravel,  river  gravel,  ashes,  cinders,  and 
coke,  lime  chippings,  flints,  old  stones  and 
bricks,  especially  when  broken,  broken 
earthenware  and  stoneware,  and  rubbish 
from  the  brickyard  may  all  be  used.  Slag, 
too,  the  refuse  of  the  iron  furnaces,  can  be 
made  available  whenever  it  can  be  obtained. 
It  should  not  be  used  in  too  large  sizes. 
Pieces  about  the  size  of  stones  ordinarily 
used  for  mending  roads,  or  such  as  will  pass 
through  a  ring  oi  2^/2  inches  in  diameter, 
are  best  suited  for  the  purpose  when  the 
material  is  broken  up  on  purpose  for  mak- 
ing concrete. 

Any  of  the  various  cements  in  general 
use  may  be  used  in  the  manufacture  of  con- 
crete, but  the  amateur  is  recommended  in 
all  cases  to  use  Portland  cement. 

Quantities  of  Cement  Used. 

When  made  into  stucco  for  covering  a 
wall,  the  following  table  will  show  the  ex 
tent  of  surface  that  a  bushel  of  cement  may 
be  made  to  cover  when  used  pure  or  with 
various  proportions  of  sand,  and  at  certain 
thicknesses  : 

I  bushel  of  cement  will  cover  i  \i  yards 
I  inch  thick,  1%  yards  Y^  inch  thick,  2^ 
yards  >^  inch  thick  ;  i  bushel  of  cement 
and   I   of  sand,  2^  yards   i  iach  thick,  3 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


15 


yards  ^  inch  thick,  43^  yards  Y^  inch  thick  ;  ' 
I  bushel  of  cement  and  3  of  sand,  3}^  yards 
I  inch  thick,  4;^  yards   ^   inch  thick,  63^ 
yards  Y^  inch  thick. 

As  cement  will  not  keep,  especially  in  a 
moist  atmosphere,  the  amateur,  when  he  re- 
quires a  small  quantity  for  repairs,  is  re- 
commended to  buy  just  so  much  as  he 
wants  and  no  more. 

In  making  concrete,  it  is  important,  in 
the  first  place,  that  the  aggregate,  be  it 
what  it  may,  should  be  deposited  on  a  clean 
place — 'if  on  old  boards,  as  scaffold  boards, 
so  much  the  better — so  that  no  dirt  may 
get  mixed  up  with  it.  The  concrete  itself 
should  be  made  on  boards,  nailed  together 
on  ledges  or  on  three  putlogs  placed  on  the 
ground  parallel  to  one  another,  forming  a 
rough  platform.  The  aggregate  and  the 
cement  or  lime  used  as  the  matrix  must  then 
be  placed  on  the  boards,  the  aggregate  being 
measured  out  first,  and  the  proper  propor- 
tion of  concrete  to  the  aggregate  being  also 
measured  out  and  thrown  upon  it.  The 
heap  is  then  wetted  with  water  poured  over 
it  from  a  large  water-pot  fitted  with  a  fine 
rose,  and  the  whole  is  then  mixed  until  the 
materials  are  thoroughly  amalgamated. 

Bricklayinjf 

Bricklaying  is  in  itself  an  apparently 
simple  process,  inasmuch  as  it  consists 
merely  in  laying  or  disposing  regular  and 
similar  rectangular  pieces  of  baked  clay 
one  upon  another,  layer  upon  layer,  until  a 
certain  height  is  reached,  spreading  a  com- 
position of  lime  and  sand  called  mortar  be- 
tween each  layer,  which  hardens  and  con- 
nects the  bricks  together  in  a  tolerably  solid 
mass.  There  is,  however,  much  more  skill 
in  bricklaying  than  is  apparent  at  first 
sight,  and  really  good  bricklaying  cannot 
be  done  without  practice  any  more  than 
other  building  processes. 

The  tools  requisite  in  bricklaying  are  a 
large,  strong  steel  trowel,  with  which  mor- 
tar may  be  spread  and  bricks  chopped  asun- 
der or  reduced  to  any  extent  that  may  be 
required  in  order  to  produce  a  perfect  bond. 
Mortar  is  carried  up  the  ladder,  and  on  to 
the  part  of  the  scaffolding  where  the  brick- 
layer is  at  work,  by  his  attendant  laborer, 
in  a  vessel  called  a  hod,  which  is  shaped 


like  a  box,  open  at  one  end  and  cut  across 
diagonally,  and  fitted  at  the  bottom  angle 
into  a  short  pole.  Then  a  small  trowel  for 
pointing,  and  a  mortar-board  to  hold  in  the 
hand,  on  which  the  mortar  or  cement  is 
carried. 

A  brick  is  accounted  to  be  9  inches 
long,  4'/^  inches  broad,  and  Q-Yt.  inches 
thick,  the  breadth  being  half  the  length, 
and  the  thickness  rather  more  than  half  the 
breadth,  or  one-fourth  the  length  ;  an  ar- 
rangement which  renders  bricks  more  con- 
venient to  use,  owing  to  the  correspondence 
and  harmony  of  proportions  in  length, 
breadth,  and  thickness.  The  equivalents 
of  the  thicknesses  of  walls  enumerated  in 
terms  of  bricks  will,  therefore,  be,  when 
expressed  in  inches,  ^  brick  =4^  in.;  i 
brick  =9  in.;  1Y2  bricks  =13^^  in.;  2 
bricks  =  18  in.  ;  2}^  bricks  =  22^  in.,  etc. 
There  are  many  different  kinds  of  bricks, 
embracing  the  three  classes  of  building 
bricks,  fire-bricks,  and  clinkers,  or  paving 
bricks. 

Mortar  for  Brickwork. 

Bricks  are  cemented  together  with  mor- 
tar, which  is  a  mixture  of  lime  and  sand 
brought  to  a  pasty  consistence  by  the  addi- 
tion of  water.  When  it  is  desired  to  make 
brickwork  as  strong  and  durable  as  possi- 
ble, the  mortar  should  be  made  of  cement, 
or  a  little  cement  should  be  added  to  the 
lime.     The  following  are  the  proportions  : 

lyime  and  sand,  and  cement  and  sand, 
lose  about  one-third  their  bulk  when  made 
into  mortar,  and  lime  and  Portland  cement 
both  require  one-third  their  bulk  of  water 
to  mix.  For  a  rod  of  brickwork  (contain- 
ing 306  cubic  feet  and  needing  4,352 
bricks),  71  cubic  feet  of  mortar  will  be 
required,  and  to  make  this  quantity  are  re- 
quired xYi  cubic  yards  of  unslaked  lime 
and  3  of  sand  ;  or  i  cubic  yard  of  stone 
lime  and  3>^  of  sand ;  or  36  bushels  of 
cement,  and  the  same  quantity  of  sharp 
sand.  Lime  or  cement  and  sand,  to  make 
mortar,  require  as  much  water  as  is  equal 
to  one-third  of  their  bulk,  or  about  5>^ 
barrels  for  a  rod  of  brickwork  built  with 
mortar. 

The  mortar  used  by  the  old  builders  was 
far  more  durable  than  the  mortar  used  in 


129 


i6 


THB  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


the  present  day.  It  hardened  into  a  mass 
which  offered  greater  resistance  to  the 
weather  than  even  the  stone  itself  that  it 
was  used  to  cement  together. 

The  cost  of  brickwork  may  be  easily 
calculated  from  the  above  memoranda. 

Soldering  and  Brazing. 

For  zinc-working,  plumbing,  gasfitting, 
and  all  kinds  of  work  in  sheet  metal,  a 
knowledge  of  the  processes  termed  solder- 
ing and  brazing  is  necessary.  By  these 
processes  the  edges  of  pieces  of  sheet  metal 
are  joined  together,  and  although  it  is  bet- 
ter for  the  amateur,  for  safety's  saice,  to 
have  all  zinc-working  that  he  may  require 
in  the  way  of  covering  roofs,  making  zinc 
pipes,  lining  wooden  cisterns,  and  similar 
operations,  done  by  the  professional  zinc- 
worker,  and  to  call  in  the  plumber  and  gas- 
fitter  to  rectify  any  leakage  in  lead  pipes  or 
gasfittings,  it  is  as  well  that  he  should 
know  how  to  make  a  joint  in  metal,  whether 
sheet  or  pipe,  and  possess  the  few  appli- 
ances necessary  for  doing  so.  If  he  can  do 
no  more  than  repair  tin  pots,  kettles,  etc., 
it  will  be  of  advantage  to  him,  for  the 
itinerant  tinman  seldom  does  his  work 
effectually ,  and  seems  never  to  be  at  hand 
when  his  services  are  most  required . 

First,  then,  with  regard  to  soldering 
and  brazing.  They  may  both  be  described 
as  methods  of  uniting  pieces  of  either  the 
same  or  different  kinds  of  metal  with  a 
strong  and,  if  necessary,  water-tight  joint. 

To  effect  this  by  the  first-named  opera- 
tion, namely  soldering,  a  compound  metal 
called  solder  is  used.  This  composition  is 
melted,  but  the  metals  to  be  united  do  not 
require  to  be  heated  otherwise  than  through 
contact  with  the  melted  solder. 

In  the  operation  of  bi-azing  the  metals 
to  be  joined  must  be  raised  to  the  melting 
point  of  the  brazing  composition,  which  is 
soft  brass.  Although  this  makes  the 
strongest  joint,  the  necessity  for  exposing 
the  articles  to  such  a  great  heat  renders  this 
operation  inapplicable  to  many  purposes. 

Soldering  is  very  useful  for  joining  cop- 
per and  copper,  copper  and  brass,  copper 
and  iron,  brass  and  brass,  brass  and  iron, 
tin  and  tin,  and  tin  and  any  other  metal. 
If   the  joint   has   to   stand   a    rather   high 


degree  of  heat — such,  for  instance,  as  the 
seams  of  a  small  copper  steam  boiler — a 
/mr^  solder  must  be  used.  By  hard  solder 
is  meant  one  that  only  fuses  at  a  high  tem- 
perature ;  a  soft  solder,  on  the  contrary, 
fuses  at  a  low  degree  of  heat. 

The  following  are  the  compositions  of 
some  of  the  most  useful  of  solders  and 
alloys,  with  the  degree  of  heat  required  to 
melt  each : 


Tin. 

1  part 

2  " 

2      " 

5     " 
5     " 


Lead, 
25  parts 

1  " 

2  " 

3  " 
3     " 


Bismuth.         Mercury. 


I  part 
3     " 
3     " 


3  parts 


Melts  at 
558°  Fahr. 
340°      " 
292°      " 
202°      " 

122°        " 


How  Soldering  is  Done. 


The  surfaces  to  be  united  must  be  thor- 
oughly  cleaned  and  brightened.  Without 
this  the  metal  will  not  adhere.  The  solder- 
ing iron  must  be  warmed  sufficiently  to  melt 
the  solder;  it  must  not  be  made  red-hot, 
because  the  solder  will  not  "  hold  to  it." 

Whilst  the  iron  is  waiming,  tin  the  sur- 
faces by  brushing  them  over  with  muriatic 
acid,  dipping  them  into  melted  solder,  and 
quickly  rubbing  off  the  adherent  metal. 
This,  if  done  well,  will  leave  a  thin  coat  of 
solder.  When  it  cannot  be  done  thus,  the 
surfaces  must  be  tinned  by  means  of  the  sol- 
dering iron.  In  this  case  they  must  be 
coated  or  washed  with  the  acid  as  before, 
but  the  solder  must  be  melted  on  the  places 
required  with  the  hot  iron. 

When  tinned,  the  surfaces  should  be 
brought  close  together,  a  little  acid  rubbed 
along  the  joints,  and  the  iron  dipped  in  the 
acid  and  put  against  some  solder,  so  that 
the  melted  solder  will  stick  to  the  iron. 
The  iron  must  now  be  applied  to  the  joints, 
and  drawn  slowly  along  in  such  a  manner 
that  the  metal  between  the  joints  is  melted, 
and  the  joints  filled  up.  A  little  practice 
will  soon  make  the  amateur  tolerably  skilful 
in  doing  this.  The  muriatic  acid,  or  spirit 
of  salt,  as  it  is  sometimes  called,  must  be 
killed,  or  rendered  neutral,  before  it  is  used, 
and  this  is  done  by  putting  one  or  two 
small  pieces  of  zinc  into  it  and  allowing  it 
to  expend  all  its  energy  on  this.  Killed 
acid  is  much  more  effective  than  the  raw  or 
pure  acid.  Sometimes  resin  is  used  instead 
of  the   acid ;    but   the   neutralized   acid   is 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


17 


preferable,  because   it   does   not   leave  the  ' 
work  in  such  a  mess  as  resin. 

Should  it  be  desirable  for  the  solder  not 
to  adhere  to  any  portion  of  the  article,  a 
paste  must  be  made  with  whiting  and  water, 
and  put  about  those  places  ;  this  paste  will 
harden  with  the  heat,  but  can  be  removed 
after  the  soldering  operation  is  effected. 

Indoor  and  Outdoor  Painting. 

Nearly  all  that  has  been  said  with  regard 
to  operations  in  the  building  trades  is  con- 
nected with  construction,  but  here  we  shall 
speak  chiefly  of  decoration.  It  has  long 
been  found  necessary  to  protect  wood  and 
iron  from  the  ill  effects  of  moisture  by  a  hard 
exterior  coating  impervious  to  wet ;  and 
hitherto  the  best  preservatives  have  been 
found  to  be  paint  and  varnish,  through 
which  no  wet  can  penetrate  as  long  as  they 
remain  in  a  sound  state. 

In  doing  work  of  this  kind,  it  is  much 
better  and  cheaper  to  buy  paints  and  var- 
nishes ready  mixed.  One  very  good  reason 
why  the  amateur  painter  should  do  this  is 
that  the  paint  which  he  makes  himself  is 
apt  to  take  a  long  time  to  get  thoroughly 
dry  and  hard ;  and  sometimes,  even  after 
the  lapse  of  several  weeks,  it  is  still  sticky. 

Before  beginning  to  paint,  all  dirt  and 
projections,  such  as  lumps  of  glue,  etc., 
must  be  cleared  away  with  the  putty-knife 
and  duster.  Then,  if  the  work  be  new,  all 
the  knots  in  the  wood  must  be  killed  with 
knotting,  to  prevent  the  turpentine  in  the 
knots  from  oozing  out  and  spoiling  the  ap- 
pearance of  the  painting  when  finished. 
Knotting  is  a  preparation  of  red  lead,  lith- 
arge, boiled  oil,  and  a  little  turpentine  ;  the 
amateur  is  advised  to  buy  the  ' '  patent  knot- 
ting,"  which  may  be  obtained  ready  for  use. 
After  the  knotting,  which  dries  and  hardens 
very  quickly,  is  applied,  the  priming, 
or  first  coat,  is  put  on.  This  is  made  of 
white  lead,  with  some  drying  material,  and 
a  little  red  lead  to  harden  it.  It  is  made 
very  thin  with  oil,  as  unpainted  wood  or 
plaster  absorbs  the  paint  very  quickly. 

The  Several  Coats  of  Paint. 

As  soon  as  the  priming  is  dry,  all  holes 
made  by  punching  in  the  heads  of  nails, 
cracks,   etc.,  must  be  stopped  with  putty. 


131 


It  is  useless  to  attempt  to  do  this  before  the 
priming  has  been  applied,  because  putty 
will  not  stick  to  wood  unless  painted.  After 
this  has  been  done  the  second  coat  may  be 
applied  ;  and  for  new  work  the  second  coat 
of  color  should  be  made  up  chiefly  of  oil, 
because  oil  is  the  most  efficient  in  stopping 
the  suction  of  the  wood  ;  then  a  third,  and 
even  a  fourth  coat,  may  be  applied.  In  lay- 
ing on  the  color,  the  brush  should  be  passed 
backwards  and  forwards  and  in  every 
direction,  to  spread  the  color  evenly  and 
work  it  well  into  the  wood ,  in  the  earlier  coats. 

Finally,  the  brush  should  be  drawn  uf 
and  down,  or  backwards  and  forwards,  at 
the  case  may  be,  in  the  direction  of  the  grain 
of  the  wood,  taking  care  to  leave  no  marks 
of  the  hairs  of  the  brush.  In  painting  a 
door,  or  any  piece  of  work  in  which  part  is 
sunk  and  part  raised,  the  mouldings  or  any 
bead-work  should  be  painted  first  with  a 
sash  tool,  and  then  the  panels,  styles,  and 
rails  with  a  brush.  No  coat  should  be  laid 
on  a  previous  coat  until  that  coat  shall  be 
perfectly  dry  and  hard ;  and  before  begin- 
ning to  paint  any  piece  of  work,  whatever 
may  be  the  number  of  the  coat,  every  particle 
of  dust  that  may  have  settled  on  it  should  be 
carefully  removed  with  the  dusting  brush. 

The  composition  of  the  paint  that  is  ap- 
plied to  old  work,  and  indeed  to  wood  gen- 
erally, must  depend  upon  the  style  or  man- 
ner in  which  the  work  is  to  be  finished  =  The 
first  coat  after  the  priming  in  new  work 
should  be  paint  in  which  the  oil  predomi- 
nates over  the  turpentine  ;  but  for  the  first 
coat  for  old  work  the  turpentine  should  be 
in  excess  of  the  oil.  Paint  mixed  with  oil 
in  excess  will  present  a  shining  surface 
when  dry,  but  paint  mixed  with  turpentine 
in  excess  will  present  a  flat,  dead,  dull  ap- 
pearance. Therefore,  when  a  shining  sur- 
face is  required,  it  is  necessary  that  the 
under  coat  should  be  paint  mixed  with  tur- 
pentine, the  final  coat  being  mixed  with  oil ; 
but  when  the  finishing  coat  is  to  be  "  flat- 
ting," as  it  is  technically  called,  it  must  be 
laid  over  an  under  coat  or  ground  color 
mixed  with  oil. 

Removing  Old  Paint. 

When  the  surface  of  a  coat  of  paint,  that 
is  to  say,  of  any  under  coat,  appears  rough, 


i8 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


especially  in  the  case  of  patches  in  old  work 
that  have  been  retouched,  the  paint,  when 
dry,  should  be  rubbed  down  with  fine. glass 
paper  until  the  roughness  has  disappeared. 
All  loose  paint,  or  paint  that  appears  loose 
round  the  blister-marks,  should  be  scraped 
away  with  a  knife  before  the  putty  is  put  on. 
For  cleaning  old  greasy  smoke-stained  paint 
limewash  or  limewater  may  be  used.  This 
kills  the  smoke  or  grease,  on  which  no  oil 
paint  will  ever  dry  and  harden.  Some  will 
put  a  coating  of  weak  size  over  the  smoke 
and  grease  ;  the  paint  will  dry  on  this,  but 
it  is  very  likely  that  it  will  soon  crack  and 
peel  off. 

It  is  not  desirable  to  keep  loading  on 
coat  after  coat  of  paint  on  old  work.  It  is 
better,  when  the  incrustation  caused  by  suc- 
cessive coats  of  paint  has  become  very  thick, 
to  remove  the  paint  entirely  and  begin  de 
novo.  There  are  various  modes  of  removing 
paint.  The  professional  painter  will  do  it 
by  the  agency  of  heat,  applying  a  flame  to 
the  surface  of  the  paint ;  the  heat  soon 
softens  the  color,  and  it  may  then  be  scraped 
away  with  a  knife. 

Other  Modes  of  Removing  Old  Paints. 

Recipe. — To  Remove  Old  Paint  Jrom 
Woodwork.  (i)  Make  a  very  strong  solu- 
tion of  common  washing  soda,  and  apply  it 
to  the  paint  with  a  brush  until  the  paint  can 
be  scraped  away.  (2)  Apply  naphtha  to  the 
paint  in  the  same  manner,  giving  it  a  second 
and  even  third  damping  with  this  substance 
until  the  paint  yields.  When  soft  enough 
scrape  it  away  with  a  knife.  (3)  Slake 
3  lbs.  of  stone  lime  in  water,  and  then  add  to 
this  I  lb.  of  pearlash,  and  sufficient  water  to 
bring  the  whole  to  the  consistency  of  thick 
cream.  Apply  the  preparation  with  a 
brush,  and  leave  it  on  the  paint  for  from 
eighteen  to  twenty-four  hours,  when  it  will 
be  found  that  the  paint  is  softened  and  may 
be  easily  scraped  off. 

The  amateur  will  find  it  necessary,  per- 
haps, to  do  his  painting  work  at  intervals, 
often  few  and  far  between.  If  he  leaves 
paint  in  the  paint  pot  for  some  length  of 
time,  he  will  discover,  much  to  his  annoy- 
ance, on  resuming  work,  that  the  paint  is 
too  hard  and  thick  to  be  used.  The  addi- 
tion of  some  oil  and  turpentine  may  save  a 


13^ 


little  of  it,  but  it  will  neither  work  pleas- 
antly, nor,  indeed,  be  worth  using.  When- 
ever paint  must  be  put  aside,  a  little  cold 
water  must  be  poured  on  the  top  of  the 
paint.  This  prevents  the  evaporation  of 
the  oil,  and  keeps  the  paint  all  right  for 
future  use  by  excluding  the  air  and  prevent- 
ing its  action  in  drying  and  hardening  the 
paint. 

The  Care  of  Brushes. 

Similarly,  brushes  not  in  use  should 
have  the  bristles  or  hair  kept  under  water, 
that  they  may  remain  soft  and  flexible.  It 
is  better,  however,  when  the  amateur 
painter  does  not  know  how  long  it  may  be 
before  he  uses  his  brush  again,  to  wash  the 
color  well  out  of  it  by  means  of  a  little  tur- 
pentine, and  then  allow  the  brush  to  dry. 
When  kept  in  water  for  some  time,  the  con- 
stant soaking  will  rot  the  string  and  the 
bottom  of  the  wooden  handle  to  which  the 
bristles  are  attached,  and  the  amateur,  on 
commencing  painting,  will  experience  the 
annoyance  of  his  brush  snapping  off"  short 
like  the  end  of  a  carrot. 

Various    Coloring    Substances  Used  in 
Painting. 

It  will  be  useful  to  the  amateur  painter 
to  mention  the  various  pigments  or  color- 
ing substances  used  in  painting  to  produce 
different  simple  colors,  and  to  follow  these 
with  a  list  of  colors  that  are  produced  by 
combinations  of  two  or  more  of  these 
colors.  White  lead,  a  substance  highly 
prejudicial  to  the  health,  both  of  those  who 
manufacture  it  and  those  who  use  it,  is 
mixed  with  all  colors  to  tone  them  down 
and  produce  different  shades,  hues,  and 
tints.  There  are,  however,  othej  mineral 
whites  capable  of  supplying  the  place  of 
white  lead,  which  have  the  advantage  of 
being  non-poisonous  pigments-. 

It  will  be  convenient  to  classify  each  set 
of  coloring  substances,  whether  mineral  or 
otherwise,  under  the  color  which  it  yields 
when  properly  mixed. 

Table  of    Simple  Coloring  Substances. 

(i)  Whites. — White  lead,  including  Ceruse  and 
Flake  White,  Zmc  White  (oxide  of  zinc),  Griffith's 
Zinc  White  (oxj'-sulphide  of  zinc — non-poison- 
ous), Spanish  White. 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


19 


(2)  Blacks.— ^i^vay^  Black,  Ivory  Black,  Blue 
Black,  Vegetable  Black,  Patent  Black. 

(3)  Yellows. — Chrome  Yellow,  Turner's  or  Pat- 
ent Yellow,  Naples  Yellow,  Orpiment,  Massicot, 
Yellow  Ochre,  Raw  Sienna,  Yellow  Lake. 

(4)  Reds. — Vermilion  (crimson  and  scarlet). 
Carmine,  Cochineal  Lake,  Madder  Lake,  Red 
Lead  or  Minium,  Indian  Red,  Venetian  Red, 
Spanish  Brown,  Purple  Brown,  Orange  Lead, 
Burnt  Sienna. 

(5.)  Browns. — Umber  (burnt  and  raw),  burned 
Prussian  Blue,  Manganese  Brown. 

(6)  Blues. — Prussian  Blue,  Cobalt,  Ultramarine, 
French  Ultramarine,  Blue  Verditer. 

(7)  Greens. — Verdigris,  Scheele's  Green,  Emer- 
ald Green,  Green  Verditer,  Italian  Green,  Saxon 
Green,  Brunswick  Green. 

Recipes   for  Tints  Produced   by   flixing 
Simple  Colors. 

Straw  Color. — Chrome  yellow  and  white  lead. 

Lemon  Color. — Chrome  yellow  and  white  lead  ; 
more  of  the  first  than  in  straw  color. 

Orange. — Chrome  yellow  and  vermilion 
(bright),  yellow  ochre  and  red  lead  (duller). 

Buff. — White  lead  and  yellow  ochre. 

Cream  Color. — Same  as  for  buflf,  but  with  more 
white. 

Gold  Color. — Chrome  yellow  with  a  little  ver- 
milion and  white  lead ;  or  Naples  yellow  and 
realgar. 

Sto7ie  Color. — White  lead  and  yellow  ochre, 
with  a  little  burnt  or  raw  umber. 

Stone  Color  (grey). — White  lead,  and  a  small 
quantity  of  black. 

Drab. — White  lead,  burnt  umber,  and  a  little 
yellow  ochre  (warm) ;  white  lead,  raw  umber,  and 
a  little  black  (cool). 

Flesh  Color. — Lake,  white  lead,  and  a  little  ver- 
milion. 

Fawn  Color. — Same  as  for  flesh  color,  with 
stone  ochre  instead  of  lake. 

Peach  Color. — White  lead,  with  vermilion,  In- 
dian red,  or  purple  brown. 

Sky  Blue. — White  lead,  Prussian  blue,  and  a 
little  lake. 

Olive. — Black,  yellow,  and  a  little  blue  ;  or  yel- 
low, pink,  lamp  black,  and  a  little  verdigris. 

Chestnut. — Light  red  and  black. 

Sahnon  Color. — Venetian  red  and  white  lead. 

Chocolate. — Black,  with  Spanish  brown,  or  Ve- 
netian red. 

Sage  Green. — Prussian  blue,  raw  umber,  and  a 
little  ochre,  with  a  little  white. 

Olive  Green. — Raw  umber  and  Prussian  blue. 

Pea  Green. — White  lead  and  Brunswick  green  ; 
or  white  lead,  Prussian  bliie,  and  some  chrome 
yellow. 

Pearl  Gray. — White  lead,  with  a  little  black, 
and  a  little  Prussian  blue  or  indigo. 

Silver  Gray. — Same  as  for  pearl  gray. 

Gray  (common). — White  lead  and  a  little  black. 

Lead  Color. — White  lead  with  black  or  indigo. 

Violet  — Vermilion,  white  lead,  and  indigo  or 
black. 


Purple. — Violet  as  above,  with  the  addition  of 
a  rich,  dark  red,  or  colors  for  French  gray. 

French  Gray. — White  lead  with  Prussian  blue 
and  a  little  lake. 

Lilac. — Same  as  for  French  gray,  but  with  less 
white. 

Oak  Color. — White  lead  with  yellow  ochre  and 
burnt  umber. 

Mahogany  Color. — A  little  black  with  purple 
brown  or  Venetian  red. 

In  all  operations  of  painting,  varnishing, 
etc.,  it  is  of  the  greatest  importance  that 
everything  used,  whether  slab,  muller,  knife, 
or  brushes,  should  be  kept  thoroughly  clean. 

Varnishes,  and  Recipes  for  Making 
Varnishes. 

Varnishes  may  be  bought  at  the  oil  and 
color  store  at  reasonable  rates. 

A  few  coats  of  varnish  much  improve 
painted  or  stained  work  by  imparting  to 
it  a  smooth  and  glossy  surface.  For  some 
work,  such  as  staining,  one  or  two  coats 
will  be  sufficient,  but  where  it  is  desir- 
able that  the  appearance  of  the  article 
should  be  as  good  as  it  can  possibly  be  made, 
eight  or  ten  coats  will  have  to  be  laid  on. 
After  the  first  three  or  four  coats  are  given 
and  thoroughly  dry,  take  some  fine  glass- 
paper  and  smooth  off  the  brush  marks  or 
any  gritty  particles  that  may  have  stuck  to 
the  varnish.  Then  give  the  work  another 
coat  of  varnish,  which  serve  in  the  same 
manner,  and  so  on  for  every  coat  until  the 
last,  which  should  be  polished  with  a  flannel 
rubber  dipped  in  Tripoli  powder  and  water, 
and  finished  off  with  a  powder  made  of  suet 
and  flour. 

The  same  precautions  must  be  observed 
with  regard  to  the  brushes  used  in  varnish- 
ing as  for  painting.  If  put  away  wet  with 
varnish,  they  will,  after  remaining  unused 
for  a  day  or  two,  be  hard  and  utterly  useless. 
They  must,  therefore,  be  well  washed  im- 
mediately after  use,  and  will  then  be  in 
proper  order  when  again  wanted. 

Gold  Varnish. — Thoroughly  wash  and 
cleanse  from  color  one  part  of  gum  shellac  ; 
when  dry  pulverize  it  well,  reducing  it  in  a 
mortar  to  an  impalpable  powder  ;  mix  with 
it  four  times  its  weight  of  spirits  of  wine  ; 
put  the  mixture  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  re- 
main until  the  gum  is  entirely  dissolved. 
Strain  the  liquor,  and  keep  for  use  in  a  well- 
corked  bottle 


133 


26 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


Black  Varnish  for  Metal,  etc. — 
Fuse  and  thoroughly  incorporate  asphal- 
tum,  ^  lb. ;  shellac,  2  oz.  ;  turpentine,  i 
quart.     L,ay  on  with  a  brush. 

Polishing,  and  Recipes  for  Polish. 

Polishing  very  greatly  improves  the  ap- 
pearance of  articles  made  of  any  fancy  wood 
or  stained  work.  There  are  many  different 
sorts  of  polish  ;  but  those  for  which  recipes 
are  given  below  will  be  found  to  answer  the 
amateur's  purpose  in  every  way  : 

French  Polish. — Spirits  of  wine,  i 
pint;  gum  sandarac,  ^  oz.  ;  gum  lac,  ^ 
oz. ;  gum  shellac,  ^  oz.  Expose  the  whole 
to  a  gentle  heat,  frequently  shaking  the 
mixture  until  the  gums  are  dissolved. 

Naphtha  Polish. — Wood  naphtha,  y^, 
pint;  orange  shellac ,  i  oz.  ;  dragons' blood, 
%  oz.  ;  benzoin,  ^  oz.  Prepare  in  the 
same  way  as  French  polish. 

Shellac  Polish. — Orange  shellac,  i^ 
oz.  ;  spirits  of  wine,  i  pint. 

The  method  of  applying  these  polishes 
is  the  same  for  all.  A  flannel  rubber  is 
made  and  dipped  in  the  polish,  and  a  piece 
of  fine  and  old  linen  is  then  put  over  the 
rubber.  When  the  polish  oozes  through 
the  covering,  dip  the  pad  into  or  slightly 
moisten  it  with  linseed  oil.  Another  way  is 
to  strain  the  linen  over  the  flannel  pad,  and 
then  to  moisten  the  linen  with  a  drop  or  two 
of  the  polish  and  a  drop  or  two  of  oil.  The 
pad  should  be  held  in  the  right  hand,  and 
the  linen  strained  tightly,  so  that  the  pad 
may  present  a  rounded  surface.  Apply  the 
pad  to  the  surface  of  the  wood  in  a  series  of 
light  strokes  made  by  a  circular  sweep  of 
the  hand  until  the  surface  is  nearly  dry, 
when  the  pad  should  be  passed  up  and  down 
in  the  direction  of  the  grain  of  the  wood. 
When  the  rubber  is  dry  some  more  polish 
and  oil  must  be  put  upon  it  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  before,  and  the  rubbing  continued. 

Plenty  of  what  is  generally  called  ' '  el- 
bow-grease" should  be  given  to  the  work, 
and  not  too  much  polish.  Beginners  gen- 
erally lay  on  a  large  quantity  of  polish  in 
clots  or  thick  coats,  but  when  this  is  done 
the  polish  does  not  look  well,  neither  has  it 
a  permanent  effect. 

No  more  polish  should  be  laid  on  than  is 
absolutely  necessary.     The  polish  should  be 


well  rubbed  in  and  finished  off  with  a  little 
pure  naphtha  or  spirits  of  wine,  whichever 
happens  to  be  the  spirit  that  is  used  in  the 
polish.  The  naphtha  or  spirits  of  wine,  as 
the  case  may  be,  should  at  first  be  laid  on 
very  gently  and  with  great  care,  otherwise 
it  will  dissolve  and  remove  the  polish  al- 
ready laid  on  ;  but  if  proper  care  is  taken 
its  effect  will  be  not  only  to  give  the  polish 
a  better  gloss,  but  to  render  it  more  lasting. 
Some  woods  absorb  a  great  deal  of  polish. 
In  order  to  prevent  this  absorption,  a  coat 
of  gold  size,  or  something  of  a  like  nature, 
is  given  before  the  application  of  the  polish. 
When  polishing  mahogany  or  other  orna- 
mental or  colored  wood,  should  there  be 
any  inequalities  or  faults  in  any  conspicuous 
part  of  the  object,  fill  them  up  with  stop- 
ping, consisting  of  plaster  of  Paris  mixed  to 
the  consistency  of  cream  with  water,  tinted 
with  staining  or  coloring  matter  correspond- 
ing with  the  color  of  the  article  that  is  to  be 
polished.  A  mixture  of  putty,  consisting  of 
finely-pounded  whiting  and  painters'  drying 
oil  and  some  coloring  matter,  will  do  quite 
as  well.  For  large  holes  a  composition  of 
beeswax,  resin,  and  shellac  is  found  very 
useful. 

Paper  Hanging. 

Next  to  painting,  the  most  important 
decorative  work  that  can  be  done  within  the 
house  is  paper-hanging,  and  a  knowledge 
of  the  mode  of  doing  this  will  often  prove 
of  great  advantage  to  the  amateur  artisan, 
especially  if  he  be  a  man  of  slender  means. 

Besides  the  American  there  are  two  other 
wallpapers  used  in  paper-hanging,  one  being 
of  English  and  the  other  of  French  manu- 
facture. The  French  paper-hangings  are 
perhaps  prettier,  more  artistic,  and  produce 
a  better  effect  than  American  or  English- 
made  papers,  but  they  are  much  more 
expensive.  They  may  be  distinguished  from 
English  papers  by  their  narrow  width, 
the  English  papers  being  22  inches  wide 
and  the  French  and  American  papers  only 
20  inches.  Again,  a  piece  of  English 
paper  is  1 2  yards  long,  and  a  piece  of  French 
paper  about  9^  yards,  the  former  covering 
7  square  yards,  or  63  feet  superficial,  and 
the  latter  \Y^  square  yards,  or  41  square 
feet.      Speaking  approximately,   therefore, 


134 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


21 


where  two  pieces  of  English  paper  are  re- 
quired, three  of  French  will  be  wanted  at 
the  very  least,  and  in  practice  this  will  not 
be  found  to  be  enough. 

The  American  paper  is  in  more  common 
use  now,  and  for  quality  and  artistic  effect 
equals  that  of  foreign  make.  It  comes  in 
rolls  oi  two  pieces  each,  or  i6  yards,  a  piece 
being  considered  8  yards  long.  The  width 
is  20  inches  over  all  or  1 8  inches  net  A 
piece  then  will  cover  36  square  feet  of  surface. 

On  looking  at  a  piece  of  wall-paper  it 
will  be  found  that  the  pattern  does  not  come 
quite  out  to  the  edges,  so  that  it  must  be  re- 
membered, in  measuring  a  room  for  paper, 
that  18  inches  is  the  absolute  net  width  of 
the  pattern  (American)  ;  the  actual  roll  of 
paper  itself  is  wider  than  this.  To  measure 
a  room,  one  method  is  to  measure  the  cir- 
cumference, making  allowance  for  doors  and 
windows,  and,  having  ascertained  the  num- 
ber of  feet,  multiply  this  by  the  height  of 
the  room  and  divide  by  the  number  of  square 
feet  in  a  piece  of  paper.  For  the  ceiling 
multiply  the  length  of  the  room  by  breadth, 
which  will  give  area,  and  divide  as  before. 
If  a  room  has  offsets  these  may  be  measured 
separately .  Thus ,  tak  ing  the  room  to  be  1 8  ft . 
by  15  ft.,  and  allowing  11  ft.  for  doors  and 
windows,  and  taking  the  height  of  the  room 
to  be  9  ft.,  between  skirting-board  and  cor- 
nice we  have : 

i8ft.  +  i8ft.  +  15ft.  +  15ft.  (length  of 
4  sides  of  room)  —  i  ift.  (allowance  for  door 
and  windows)  X  9ft.  (height  between  ceil- 
ing and  skirting)  -^36  (No.  of  square  feet 
in  piece  of  paper) . 

Or  66  —  II  X  9  -^  36,  or  55  X  9  -^  36 
=  14  pieces,  or  13  and  a  fraction,  which 
requires  of  course  14  full  pieces,  or  7  rolls, 
for  the  sides.  The  ceiling  would  be  18  X  15 
-=-  36  =  7>^ ,  or  8  pieces. 

Small  Patterns  Most  Satisfactory. 

The  most  satisfactory  kind  of  pattern  is 
a  small  geometrical  one,  consisting  of  some 
simple  form,  a  leaf  or  flower,  convention- 
ally treated.  For  staircases,  passages,  etc., 
papers  in  imitation  of  wood  or  marble  are 
most  commonly  used,  and  these  can  be  pre- 
served from  much  casual  injury  by  varnish- 
ing. Marble  papers  are  usually  hung  in 
Jarge  blocks,  the  lines  of  demarcation,  hori- 


zontal and  vertical ,  being  traced ,  with  the  aid 
of  a  straight  edge,  iu  black  or  brown.  For 
sitting-rooms  satin  papers,  or  papers  with  a 
glossy  surface,  are  generally  used.  Papers 
in  which  gold  is  introduced  are  expensive 
if  they  are  worth  anything  at  all.  In  cheap 
gilt  papers,  the  gold,  which  is  most  likely 
Dutch  metal,  soon  tarnishes  and  changes  as 
time  goes  on  from  a  dull  copper- red  to 
black.  It  is  good  taste  to  have  the  ceiling 
paper  light  in  color  and  with  a  subdued 
figure  to  harmonize  with  the  sides. 

Preliminary   Work  for   Paper   Hanging. 

If  the  wall  be  new  it  will  require  sizing 
before  the  paper  is  put  on,  though  this  is  by 
no  means  done  as  a  rule.  If  the  wall  has 
to  be  re-papered,  it  must  be  stripped  of  the 
old  paper,  or  should  be  stripped,  as  new 
papers  are  too  frequently  hung  upon  old 
papers  ;  a  procedure  which  is  certainly  not 
cleanly,  and  is  in  many  cases  prejudicial  to 
health,  because  the  dampness  caused  by 
putting  up  the  new  paper  often  detaches  the 
old  paper  from  the  surface  of  the  wall,  and 
oftentimes,  if  the  paste  used  in  hanging  the 
old  paper  has  been  bad,  a  fungus  is  gener- 
ated, which  spreads  over  the  wall  in  dark 
patches  of  a  brown  or  greenish  color. 

In  re-papering  a  room  after  any  one 
stricken  down  with  some  infectious  dis- 
order, such  as  scarlet  or  typhus  fever,  on  no 
account  should  the  old  paper  be  left  on  the 
walls,  but  it  should  be  carefully  stripped 
and  the  walls  washed,  and  the  ceiling  coated 
with  limewash,  after  the  old  coating  has 
been  taken  off  with  clean  water.  As  soon 
as  this  is  done,  the  walls  may  be  sized  anc' 
the  process  of  re-papering  maybe  proceed  e*^ 
with. 

Size  is  a  kind  of  weak  glue,  made  from 
the  clippings  of  parchment,  glove-leather, 
fish-skin,  and  similar  substances,  by  boiling 
them  down  in  water.  When  cold  it  resem- 
bles jelly.  It  is  sold  by  all  oil  and  color 
dealers. 

The  wall  being  sized,  it  is  necessary  to 
determine  what  tools  are  absolutely  neces- 
sary for  the  paper-hanger's  work.  These 
may  be  summed  up  as  a  pair  of  boards  con- 
nected by  hinges,  or,  if  preferred,  simply 
grooved  and  tongued  together,  or  even 
joined  by  dowels  or  pins.     The    amateur 


135 


22 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


need  not  provide  himself  with  a  pair  of 
boards  and  trestles  merely  for  the  sake  of 
papering  a  single  room  ;  a  kitchen  table, 
if  long  enough,  or  even  a  dining  table  suit- 
ably protected,  will  answer  every  purpose. 
The  boards  are  portable,  and,  therefore, 
useful  to  the  regular  paper-hanger,  who 
may  not  find  any  suitable  table  at  the  house 
to  which  he  is  going.  They  are  also  of 
greater  length  than  most  tables,  which  is 
obviously  an  advantage.  Whether  the  ama- 
teur is  provided  with  boards  or  not,  he  must 
of  necessity  have  a  pair  of  good-sized 
scissors  ;  a  pail  to  hold  his  paste,  whether 
of  wood  or  iron  it  matters  not,  so  long  as  it 
is  clean ;  and  a  paste  brush,  something 
similar  to  that  used  for  whitewashing,  but 
smaller. 

Paste  for  Paper  Hanging. 

Good  paste  for  paper-hanging  is  made 
of  old  flour,  mixed  to  a  milk-like  consis- 
tency with  water.  When  put  in  the  sauce- 
pan to  boil,  a  little  size  or  glue  may  be 
added,  which  will  increase  its  tenacity.  A 
little  alum  may  also  be  added  to  paste,  in 
order  to  cause  it  to  spread  more  freely  ; 
this  ingredient  has  the  property  of  keeping 
paste  sweet  and  wholesome,  and  it  is  gener- 
ally used  in  the  thicker  kinds  of  paste,  such 
as  shoemakers'  paste,  partly  for  this  pur- 
pose. The  paste  when  boiled  should  be  of 
the  thickness  of  ordinary  gruel,  and  must 
be  laid  on  the  paper  smoothly  and  equally 
with  backward  and  forward  strokes  of  the 
brush.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  load 
the  brush  with  too  much  paste  at  one  time, 
lest  the  paper  should  be  rendered  too  damp. 
It  will  sometimes  happen  that  through  an 
over-abundance  of  paste  a  little  is  pressed 
out  at  the  edges  when  the  cloth  is  used  to 
dab  the  paper  against  the  wall.  Any  paste 
that  makes  its  appearance  should  be  re- 
moved by  means  of  a  sponge  dipped  in 
clean  water,  but  the  amateur  must  be  care- 
ful to  avoid  smearing  the  colors  of  the  pa- 
per. The  colors  will  often  be  started  in  a 
slight  degree  by  the  influence  of  the  damp 
paste,  and  if  the  surface  be  smeared  the 
only  thing  that  can.be  done  is  to  paste  a 
piece  of  fresh  paper  over  the  smear,  which, 
if  left  as  it  is,  will  prove  a  continual  eye- 
sore. 


136 


Where  to  Begin  to  Hang  Paper. 

Where  to  make  a  commencement  in 
hanging  a  room  with  paper  will  be  a  bit  of 
a  puzzle  to  the  amateur  paper-hanger.  The 
rule  is  that  the  edges  of  the  paper  when 
hung  shall  be  towards  the  window  ;  that  is 
to  say,  that  if  there  be  a  window  in  the 
room  the  paper  must  be  hung  Irom  either 
side  of  the  window  round  the  room,  the 
junction  being  finally  effected  in  some  cor- 
ner of  the  room  or  some  recess,  where  the 
mismatching  of  the  pattern  would  not  be 
so  apparent. 

When  it  has  been  ascertained  by  actual 
measurement  how  much  paper  is  required 
for  hanging  on  each  side  of  the  commence- 
ment, wherever  it  may  be,  whether  on  each 
side  of  the  window  or  from  the  middle  line 
over  a  mantel-shelf,  proceed  to  cut  the  pa- 
per. The  usual  way  is  to  unroll  the  paper 
for  a  yard  or  two,  cut  the  edge  on  one  side, 
roll  up  the  paper  just  cut,  lightly  and 
loosely,  and  continue  unrolling,  cutting, 
and  rolling  up  by  a  5  ard  or  two  at  a  time 
till  the  other  end  of  the  roll  is  reached. 
Some  will  then  cut  the  other  edge,  proceed- 
ing in  the  same  way  until  the  paper  is  rolled 
as  it  was  before  the  cutting  commenced, 
having  the  topmost  piece  at  the  outer  end. 
It  is  important  to  remember  that  whichever 
side  is  cut  close  to  the  pattern,  the  opposite 
side  must  not  be  cut  closer  than  from  ^  in. 
to  Yz  in.  of  the  pattern.  The  edge  that  is 
not  cut  close  need  not,  in  point  of  fact,  be 
cut  at  all ;  tlie  chief  object  in  cutting  it  is 
to  leave  as  small  an  extent  of  overlapping 
as  possible  where  the  strips  are  joined  to- 
gether. The  best  paper-hangers,  who  can 
set  the  paper  to  a  line,  trim  close  on.  both 
sides  and  do  not  overlap,  but  set  to  the  edge. 

Cutting  Paper  into  Lengths. 

When  the  edges  are  cut  the  next  step  is 
to  cut  the  paper  into  lengths  suitable  to  the 
height  of  the  room,  and  this,  whether  the 
overplus  at  top  and  bottom  be  much  or 
little,  must  be  done  in  such  a  manner  that 
when  the  second  strip  is  pasted  up  by  the 
side  of  the  first  the  pattern  will  join  neatly 
and  exactly,  leaving  as  few  traces  as  possi- 
ble, if  it  leave  any,  of  the  line  of  junction. 
The  ' '  match ' '  is  shown  by  certain  marks 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


22> 


on  the  edge  of  the  paper,  and  if  it  be  found 
that  a  considerable  length  of  paper  be  left 
either  at  top  or  bottom,  or  at  both,  it  will  be 
better  and  more  convenient  for  the  amateur 
in  carrying  out  the  operation  of  hanging 
each  slip  to  cut  off  the  surplus  paper,  leav- 
ing no  more  than  an  inch  or  two  at  top  and 
bottom  beyond  the  length  between  skirting 
and  cornice.  Cut  the  paper  straight  across, 
which  can  be  easily  done  by  aid  of  the  pat- 
tern, and  cut  as  many  lengths  as  will  sufl&ce 
for  one  or  two  sides  of  the  room  to  begin 
with.  lyay  the  lengths  thus  cut  face  down- 
wards on  the  pasting-board,  letting  the  edge 
of  each  strip  as  it  is  laid  down  project  a 
little  beyond  the  edge  of  that  which  is  im- 
mediately below  it,  in  which  the  uppermost 
strip  is  the  last  strip  laid  down.  This  pre- 
vents the  paste  from  getting  under  the  edges 
of  the  piece  below  when  the  piece  above  is 
being  pasted. 

Attaching  to  the  Wall. 

As  many  strips  as  may  be  required  hav- 
ing been  laid  one  on  top  of  another  on  the 
board,  the  first  strip  may  be  pasted,  but  a 
little  judgment  must  be  used  as  to  the  time 
that  may  be  allowed  to  elapse  before  the 
paper  is  attached  to  the  wall.  If  the  paper 
be  cheap,  and  therefore  thin  and  unsubstan- 
tial, it  must  be  hung  up  as  quickly  as  possi- 
ble after  the  paste  is  put  on  ;  but  if  it  be  a 
stout,  good  paper,  some  two  or  three  min- 
utes may  elapse  between  pasting  and  hang- 
ing ;  and  a  thick  paper  may  be  left  even 
twice  as  long,  to  allow  the  damp  to  pene- 
trate the  paper  and  render  it  more  easy  of 
manipulation  and  less  liable  to  be  crushed 
or  broken.  For  easier  manipulation  it  is 
better  to  loop  up  the  lower  end  of  the  paper, 
the  paste  causing  the  paper  to  adhere 
slightly  where  one  part  comes  in  contact 
with  another.  Then  fold  back  the  top,  and 
putting  the  hands,  which  should  be  perfectly 
clean  and  free  from  paste,  under  this  fold, 
attach  the  paper  to  the  wall,  bringing  the 
top  upwards  with  the  hands  to  meet  the 
cornice.  Care  should  be  taken  beforehand 
to  make  a  guide  line  on  the  wall,  or  to  see 
that  the  woodwork  round  the  window  is 
perfectly  upright,  and  this  will  assist  the 
amateur  in  fixing  the  first  strip  truly  per- 
pendicular.    After   attaching  it  lightly  to 


the  wall,  the  plumb-line  may  be  applied  to 
see  that  all  is  true  and  vertical,  and  if  all  is 
right  release  the  fold,  and,  after  letting  the 
paper  hang  straight  down,  lift  it  away  from 
the  wall,  except  for  about  six  or  eight  inches 
below  the  cornice,  and  then  let  the  strip 
fall,  when  it  will  gently  float  down  into  its 
place. 

The  next  step  is  to  press  the  paper 
against  the  surface  of  the  wall  in  every  part, 
and  for  this  purpose  the  amateur  must  be 
provided  with  some  clean  soft  cloths.  First 
of  all,  the  paper  must  be  pressed  down  the 
middle  from  top  to  bottom  with  firm  but 
gentle  pressure,  avoiding  all  rubbing,  which 
may  have  the  effect  of  starting  the  color  and 
smearing  and  spoiling  the  paper.  Then 
press  from  the  centre  outwards  on  both 
sides  in  a  downward  direction.  The  paper 
in  some  cases  will  lay  smooth  and  flat 
against  the  wall ,  but  if  the  paper  be  cheap 
and  thin  there  will  in  all  probability  be 
many  wrinkles  all  over  the  surface.  Do 
not  attempt  to  press  these  flat.  The  paper 
has  stretched  under  the  influence  of  the 
moisture  of  the  paste,  and  as  it  dries  it  will 
contract  again  and  lay  as  flat  as  possible 
all  over  the  wall  to  which  it  is  attached, 
lyastly,  draw  the  scissors  over  the  paper  just 
below  the  cornice  and  just  above  the  skirt- 
ing-board, making  a  crease.  Then  pull  the 
paper  gently  from  the  wall  as  far  as  may  be 
necessary,  cutting  off"  the  edges  along  the 
mark  or  crease  made  by  the  scissors,  and 
restore  the  ends  to  their  places,  dabbing 
them  lightly  as  before  with  the  cloth,  which 
should  be  so  doubled  up  as  to  form  a  ^arge, 
loose  pad. 

The  second  strip  may  now  be  put  up  in 
the  same  way.  Here,  however,  the  chief 
anxiety  will  be  to  match  the  pattern  neatly, 
for  if  the  first  strip  be  put  up  perpendicu- 
larly the  other  strips  will  be  perpendicular 
as  a  matter  of  course.  Nevertheless  it  will 
be  as  well  for  the  amateur  to  test  his  work 
occasionally  by  the  plumb-line,  to  make  sure 
that  it  is  not  getting  out  of  the  perpendicular. 

It  may  be  that  the  amateur  will  not  be 
successful  in  his  first  effort,  and  then  all 
that  can  be  done  is  to  sacrifice  the  strip  of 
paper,  pull  it  down,  and  try  again.  As  in 
everything  else,  practice  is  necessary  to  en- 
able a  man  to  do  this  work  well  and  quickly. 


37 


24 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


It  will  be  advisable,  then,  for  any  beginner 
to  try  his  'prentice  hand  in  an  attic  or  some 
small  room  of  no  great  consequence,  in 
order  to  give  him  some  idea  of  the  way  in 
which  paper  must  be  handled  and  attached 
to  the  wall.  He  will  soon  gain  confidence 
in  himself,  and  find  no  great  difficulty  in 
oapering  other  rooms  where  it  will  be  abso- 
utely  necessary  that  the  work  be  neatly  and 
accurately  done. 

Borders  should  be  neat  in  design,  and 
match  the  paper  in  this  respect  and  in  color, 
or  if  the  colors  do  not  harmonize  they  should 
be  in  agreeable  contrast,     A  cable  pattern 


generally  looks  well,  or  the  Grecian  rec- 
tangular pattern,  known  as  the  Greek  key 
pattern.  The  representation  of  a  simple 
molding  is  often  very  efiective,  and  when 
the  paper  is  plain  in  character  and  geometri- 
cal in  pattern  a  floral  border  is  admissible. 
It  must  be  remembered,  however,  that  a 
border,  however  good  it  may  be,  tends  to 
detract  from  the  apparent  height  of  the 
room,  and  therefore  is  not  so  well  calculated 
for  a  low  room  as  for  a  high  room,  to  which 
the  horizontal  lines  of  the  border  impart  an 
appearance  of  breadth  and  space. 


BELLS  AND  TELEPHONES 


The  electric  bell  constitutes  one  of  the 
most  simple  pieces  of  apparatus  for  signal- 
ing by  electricity,  and  although  more  than 
half  a  century  has  elapsed  since  it  was  first 
introduced,  no  better  method  of  signaling 
or  giving  a  call  has  yet  been  invented  for 
land  lines.  It  is  always  used  for  attracting 
attention  in  telephonic  communication  and 
Very  often  also  in  telegraphy. 

To  Wire  for  and  to  Connect  Electric  Bells. 

It  is  easy  to  understand  that  an  electric 
bell  equipment  usually  consists  of  one  elec- 
tric bell,  one  cell  of  battery,  one  push-button, 
and  wire  enough  to  connect  the  outfit  for  a 
reasonable  distance. 

The  push-button  is,  of  course,  set  at  the 
place  from  which  the  signal  is  to  be  given, 
and,  when  connected,  the  pressing  of  the  but- 
ton should  ring  the  bell.  The  bell  should 
continue  ringing  as  long  as  the  button  is 
pressed.  The  bell  should  be  placed  where 
the  persons  who  are  expected  to  answer  it 
[when  it  rings]  are  likely  to  be,  so  it  can  be 
heard  by  them.  The  battery,  the  motive 
power,  is  placed  at  some  convenient  place, 
the  closer  the  battery  is  placed  to  the  push- 
button, the  better  for  some  work. 

The  wire  is  used  to  make  the  connection 
to  the  bell,  battery,  and  push-button.  The 
proper  way  to  connect  an  electric  bell  outfit 
is  to  run  one  wire  from  the  push-button  to 
the  battery,  one  wire  from  the  push-button 
to  the  bell,  and  one  wire  from  the  bell  to 
the  battery.  This  gives  two  wire  ends  at 
each  place,  namely,  bell    battery,  and  push- 


button. The  bell,  battery,  and  push-button 
each  have  two  places  where  the  wires  are 
connected.  To  all  places  to  which  wires 
are  connected  the  insulation  covering  of  the 
wires  must  be  removed,  and  the  wire  made 
clean  and  bright.  Then  connect  it  with  the 
connecting  places  of  the  push-button,  bell, 
and  battery.  This  way  of  connecting  an 
electric  bell  outfit  is  called  a  metallic  cir- 
cuit. 

A  Grounded  Circuit. 

On  long  distances  wire  can  be  saved  by 
using  a  grounded  circuit,  which  is  done  as 
follows  :  Drive  a  piece  of  iron  into  the  earth, 
from  four  to  five  feet  down,  connect  a  wire 
to  the  iron  driven  into  the  ground  by  wrap- 
ping the  bare  wire  tightly  around  the  iron. 
This  ground  wire  is  then  run  to  the  battery 
and  connected  to  the  zinc  side.  A  second 
wire  is  run  from  the  carbon  side  of  the  bat- 
tery to  one  side  of  the  push-button  ;  a  second 
wire  runs  from  the  push-button  to  wherever 
the  bell  is  placed  ;  a  wire  is  run  from  the 
bell  to  a  second  ground  iron,  and  attached 
or  connected  to  the  ground  iron,  the  same 
as  the  first  ground  connection  was  made. 
Where  long  distances  are  to  be  connected, 
namely,  from  house  to  stable,  factory  or  any 
other  building,  this  way  of  doing  electric 
bell  work  is  frequently  done.  All  wires 
that  are  outside  of  buildings  should  be  fas- 
tened on  to  porcelain  or  glass  insulators, 
and  never  be  nailed  against  brick  or  stone 
walls,  or  any  frame  buildings ;  always  use 
f  insulators,  and  have  wires  clear  of  all  places. 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


25 


It  is  recommended  for  electric  bell  work 
that  no  lighter  wire  than  what  is  known  in 
the  trade  as  No.  16  be  used,  and  that  the 
wire  have  a  good  insulation  or  covering. 

Making  Connections. 

Jn  all  ordinary  electric  bell  work,  if 
reasonable  care  is  taken,  no  connections  or 
splices  are  necessary  in  the  wire.  Should  it 
be  necessary  to  make  a  connection  of  two 
ends  of  wire,  make  a  good  one  and  solder 
it ;  do  not  neglect  doing  this  (soldering  con- 
nections) in  case  you  cannot  solder  the  con- 
nections, wrap  them  with  tin  foil,  or  some 
tissue  paper,  and  on  top  of  this  use  some 
insulating  tape,  making  a  good  covering 
over  the  wire  again.  Do  not,  however,  use 
insulating  tape  right  on  a  wire  connection, 
as  the  place  gets  corroded,  and  is  an  injury 
to  good  work. 

When  it  is  desired  electric  bell  work  can 
be  so  arranged  so  one,  two  or  more  bells  can 
be  rung  from  one  or  as  many  more  places  as 
desired.  This  is  all  simple  work,  and  can 
be  easily  understood  by  making  electric  bell 
circuit  diagrams,  to  show  similar  points  on 
same  line. 

The  wire  for  push-buttons  must  be  al- 
ways connected  in  multiple,  with  the  wire 
attached  to  the  first  push-button.  This  is 
easily  done  by  making  half  connections .  The 
push-button  end  of  wires  must  always  be 
so  connected  in  open  circuit  bell  work. 

The  bells  when  so  connected  that  two  or 
more  ring  simultaneously,  should  be  also 
connected  in  multiple. 

The  Working  of  tlie  Bell. 

The  electric  bell  consists  essentially  of 
an  electro-magnet  and  a  vibrating  armature 
piece  which  oscillates  in  front  of  it.  If  a 
current  enters  the  terminal  A  it  is  conducted 
through  the  coils  D  D  of  the  electro-mag- 
net, which  has  iron  cores,  and  passes  out 
through  the  metal  of  the  armature,  the  con- 
tact screw,  g,  and  the  terminal  B.  Such  a 
current  will,  of  course,  cause  the  electro- 
magnet to  draw  the  armature  down  on  to 
its  terminal^,  the  armature  itself  being  at- 
tached by  a  flexible  steel  spring  to  the 
framework,  so  as  to  make  this  movement 
possible.  In  the  act,  however,  of  drawing 
down  the  armature,  the  contact  of  the  screw 


139 


g,  and  a  prolongation  of  the  armature 
spring,  is  broken,  and  as  this  contact  forms 
part  of  the  electric  circuit,  the  current 
ceases  to  magnetize  the  electro -magnet ;  the 
armature  is,  therefore,  no  longer  attracted 
and  springs  back  by  virtue  of  the  steel 
spring,  and  contact  between  it  and  the  screw, 
g,  is  restored,  which  causes  the  same  opera- 
tion to  be  repeated.  This  motion  takes 
place  very  rapidly  to 
and  fro,  and  is  com- 
municated to  a  light 
hammer,  d,  which 
strikes  the  bell,  b,  and 
produces  a  continu- 
ous and  loud  ringing 
sound.  The  whole 
apparatus  forms  a  sim- 
ple method  of  draw- 
ing attention  from 
a  distance,  and  can 
always  be  relied  upon 
to  work  properly. 

The  only  draw- 
back to  the  bell  is  that 
if  the  screw,  g,  is  set 
so  as  to  make  it  as 
sensitive  as  possible,  a  vibration  of  the  sup- 
port to  which  the  whole  apparatus  is  fixed, 
due  to  a  passing  train  or  vehicle,  might  be 
suf&cient  to  cause  the  hammer  to  strike 
the  gong.  In  railway  signal-boxes,  where 
electric  bells  are  much  used,  it  is  absolutely 
necessary  that  this  should  not  happen,  as  it 
might  lead  to  a  serious  catastrophe.  The 
bells  in  this  case  are,  therefore,  so  arranged 
that  on  closing  the  electric  circuit  the  bell- 
hammer  only  strikes  the  gong  once,  and 
only  when  the  circuit  is  broken  again  out- 
side the  bell  does  it  spring  back  so  as  to  be 
ready  for  a  second  signal. 

Alternating  Currents. 

Such  vibrating  electric  bells  will  work 
with  both  direct  and  alternating  currents, 
but  not  nearly  so  well  with  the  latter.  As, 
however,  it  is  very  often  found  desirable  to 
use  alternating  currents,  a  special  polarized 
bell  has  been  devised  for  use  with  them,  in 
which  the  armature,  the  amplitude  of  whose 
movement  is  regulated  by  screws,  vibrates 
in  a  vertical  plane  between  two  poles  of  an 
electro-magnet,  bent  round  at  right  angles. 


-Electric  Bell. 


26 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


No  make-and-break  mechanism  is  nec- 
essary as  in  ordinary  bells,  because  the  al- 
ternating current  is  continuously  reversing 
the  sign  of  the  poles  of  the  electro-magnet, 
causing  the  armature  and  bell- hammer  to 
vibrate,  by  alternate  attraction  and  repul- 
sion. It  is  usual  in  these  bells  to  intensify 
the  sound  by  using  two  domes,  making  use 
of  the  return  stroke  of  the  hammer. 

The  current  is  produced  by  a  small  mag- 
neto dynamo  worked  by  hand. 
This  method  of  dispensing  with 
primary  batteries  is  due  to  Sie- 
mens, and  has  the  advantage 
that  a  high  E.M.F.  (Electric 
Motive  Force)  can  be  gener-  Jrdcropkc 
ated  at  no  expense,  the  power  _. 
being  supplied  by  the  operator  jjihiljil' 
himself.  li 


The  first  practical  telephone  was  invented 
by  Graham  Bell,  and  patented  by  him  in 
1877  ;  it  was  also  invented  independently 
about  the  same  time  by  Elisha  Gray.  The 
principle  of  this  telephone  is  based  on  the 
laws  of  electro- magnetic  induction. 

A  complete  apparatus  for  telephonic  com- 
munication consists :  at  the  transmitting 
station,  of  a  microphone,  battery,  and 
induction  coil,  and  a  bell-push  which  rings 


"cpj 


Cautions   to  be  Observed. 

To  sum  up,  then,  let  us  say 
that  in  putting  up  electric  bells, 
telephones,  etc.,  there  are  sev- 
eral points  which  must  be  carefully  attended 
to,  if  satisfactory  working  is  desired ;  the  con- 
ducting wires  must  be  as  well  insulated  as 
possible.  Mere  touching  contacts  should  be 
avoided  unless  absolutely  necessary.  If  pos- 
sible contacts  or  joints  should  be  soldered  so 
as  to  make  a  good  metallic  connection.  If 
any  connections  are  made  by  terminals  or 
binding  screws,  they  must  be  carefully 
cleaned  and  seen  to  from  time  to  time  ;  this 
remark  applies  especially  to  the  battery 
terminals,  which  are  more  likely  to  become 
corroded  by  the  electrolyte.  The  general  ar- 
rangement of  the  wires  should  be  first  map- 
ped out  on  paper,  and  this  plan  carefully 
adhered  to  in  putting  them  up,  otherwise 
confusion  and  trouble  will  arise. 

Putting    up    Telephones. 

There  are  two  very  distinct  methods  of 
transmuting  the  voice  possible  in  telephonic 
systems  :  electro  magnetic  transmitters  for 
use  without  batteries,  and  transmitters  on 
the  micrf)y)hone  principle  requiring  some 
external  source  of  current.  The  instru- 
ments for  receiving  the  voice  are  called 
receivers,  and  are  always  based  on  the  prin- 
ciple of  the  electro-magnetic  transmitter. 


receiver 


battery 

Apparatus  for  the  Transmission  of  Sound  by  Electricity. 

a  bell  at  the  receiving  station  to  draw 
attention  ;  at  the  receiving  end,  of  Bell  tele- 
phone receiver  and  the  call-bell. 

Line    Wires. 

In  towns,  each  person  having  a  telephone 
is  connected  to  an  excnange,  and  by  which 
he  can  be  connected  at  will  to  any  other  per- 
son also  connected  to  the  exchange. 

The  line  wires,  connecting  the  trans- 
mitting and  receiving  stations,  consist  ol 
two  copper  conductors  of  high  conductivity 
and  great  tensile  strength.  It  is  found  that 
alloys  of  copper  and  silicon,  or  copper  and 
aluminium,  are  best  for  this  purpose.  The 
wires  have  a  resistance  of  about  80  ohmo  per 
mile,  and  their  breaking  tension  is  about  150 
lbs.  With  wire  weighing  about  19  lbs.  per 
mile,  spa  ,is  of  100  to  150  yards  are  possible. 
The  wires,  if  overhead,  are  supported  on 
porcelain  insulators,  which  are  attached  at  a 
convenient  height  from  the  ground  to  posts 
or  houses  ;  in  the  country  trees  often  come  in 
handy  for  the  purpose.  In  cities  the  best 
method  is  to  lay  them  underground,  where 
they  are  safe  from  the  effects  of  fire  or 
weather  ;  this,  however,  is  rarely  done,  as 
overhead  wires  are  so  very  much  cheaper. 


140 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


27 


If  a  telephone  line  does  not  run  any- 
where near  any  other  telephone,  telegraph, 
or  electric  circuit,  the  return  wire  may  be  re- 
placed with  economy  by  the  earth.  In  this 
case  very  careful  connection  must  be  made 
with  the  earth  at  each  end.  A  good  plan  is 
to  solder  the  connecting  wire  to  a  water 
pipe,  but  if  this  is  not  available,  it  must  be 
connected  to  a  large  metallic  plate  of  copper 
buried  deeply  in  damp  earth,  which  it  is  as 
well  to  water  from  time  to  time.  It  is  best 
to  avoid  this  earth  return  for  telephones  if 
possible,  as  it  is  very  seldom  satisfactory. 

In  fixing  up  the  telephone  apparatus  it 
should  never  be  attached  to  thin  partitions 
which  are  capable  of  vibration,  but  should 
be  screwed  to  a  solid  wall,  and  even  then  it 
is  as  well  to  place  a  couple  of  layers  of  felt 
between  the  instrument  and  the  wall. 

Number   of    Bells  Required. 

A  couple  of  cells  of  almost  any  make 
such  as  Daniells  or  Le  Clanche  are  quite 
enough  for  working  a  short  telephone  line, 
and  for  longer  distances  three  or  four  at  the 
outside  are  sufficient,  for,  an  excess  of  electro- 
motor force  produces  a  crackling  sound  in  the 
receivers,  which  may  be  loud  enough  to  seri- 
ously inconvenience  conversation.  For  elec- 
tric bells  the  number  of  cells  required  de- 
pends upon  the  length  of  the  line  and  the 
resistance  of  the  bells  used,  and  the  right 
number  is  usually  found  by  experiment. 

If  a  telephonic  line  is  to  be  established 
near  a  telegraph  line,  it  becomes  necessary 
to  use  a  metallic  wire  for  the  return,  because 
the  effects  of  induction,  due  to  the  making 
and  breaking  of  the  telegraph  current,  when 
an  earth  return  is  used  by  both  circuits,  be- 
comes sometimes  great  enough  to  spoil  all 
telephonic  communication. 

As  a  matter  of  fact  it  is  very  seldom  that 
an  earth  return  can  be  used  for  telephone 
lines,  for  the  circuit  is  then  always  liable  to 
external  disturbances,  such  as  leaks  from 
electric  light  and  power  circuits,  telegraph 
currents,  earth  currents,  etc.  Even  with  twin 
wires  the  greatest  attention  must  be  paid  to 
good  insulation  of  the  line,  otherwise  the 
above-mentioned  disturbances  may  make 
their  influence  felt.  When  all  such  stray 
currents  have  been  eliminated  from  the  sys- 
tem ^  the  length  of  a  telephone  line  may  be 


greatly  increased ;  conversation  has  been 
carried  on  quite  distinctly  at  distances  of 
800  and  900  miles. 

Operating  a  Telephone. 

The  manipulation  of  a  telephone  instru- 
ment is  quite  simple.  In  nearly  every  type 
of  instrument  the  receivers  are  hung  on  a 
hook  which  is  pivoted  on  an  axis.  This 
movable  hook  has  a  spring  attached  to  it  so 
that,  when  the  receiver  is  hung  on  it,  the 
hook  falls  and  distends  the  spring.  If  the 
receiver  is  unhooked  the  spring  is  released 
and  the  hook  is  drawn  up.  It  is  really  a 
switch,  and  the  up-and-down  movement 
causes  the  proper  connections  of  line  and 
bell,  and  line  and  telephone  to  be  made. 
To  enter  into  communication  with  another 
person  through  the  exchange,  the  handle  of 
the  magneto-generator  is  turned,  or  a  button 
is  pressed.  The  exchange  answer  the  sig- 
nal by  ringing  the  subscriber's  bell.  The 
receiver  is  then  unhooked  and  placed  to  the 
ear,  and  the  mouth  is  placed  opposite  the 
microphone.  The  attendant  at  the  exchange 
asks  what  number  is  required,  which  being 
given  the  proper  connection  is  made  there, 
and  the  two  persons  are  now  in  direct  com- 
munication. When  the  conversation  is  fin- 
ished ,  the  bell  is  again  rung  to  signify  the 
fact,  and  the  attendant  at  the  exchange  dis- 
connects them. 

Batteries. 

Batteries  are  connected  by  attaching  the 
carbon  side  of  one  cell  to  the  zinc  side  of  the 
next ;  follow  this  for  any  number  and  there 
will  always  remain  one  carbon  pole  and  one 
zinc  pole  to  which  line  wires  may  be  con- 
nected. Batteries  should  be  examined  occa- 
sionally and  cleaned.  Do  not  use  more 
salamoniac  than  will  readily  dissolve  and 
have  a  small  amount  in  bottom  of  cell 
Place  the  batteries  so  they  may  not  be  ex 
posed  to  draughts  or  heat.  Use  soft  rain- 
water in  the  solution.  Six  ounces  of  sala- 
moniac to  a  jar  is  enough.  When  the  bat- 
teries appear  to  be  doing  too  much  work  or 
become  weak,  examine  all  connections ; 
look  for  leaks  where  wires  cross  or  touch. 
Test  each  battery  separately  by  connecting 
it  with  the  two  poles  of  a  bell  used  for  that 
purpose, 


141 


38 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


The  practical  mechanic — the  amateur 
workman — the  busy  man  of  affairs — the 
housekeeper — the  farmer,  have  occasions  for 
useful  information  about  the  common  mater- 
ials used  in  building  and  repairing  and  for 
the  tables  and  measurements  used  in  the 
different  trades  and  business  pursuits,  which 
are  seldom  found  outside  of  books  treating 


of  special  trades.  These  facts  and  figures 
also  enable  one  to  deal  intelligently  with  the 
mechanic  and  tradesman.  They  are  time- 
savers^  and  hence  2iX&  money- makers.  Such 
information  is  only  secured  after  long  and 
diligent  search  and  comparison  of  adthori 
ties.  We  give  many  of  the  important 
ones. 


FACTS  AND   FIGURES   FOR   EVERY   DAY   USE 


Shingles. 

The  best  shingles  are  of  white  cedar. 
When  of  good  quality,  they  will  last  40  to 
50  years  in  our  Northern  States.  Cypress 
and  white  pine  are  much  used  for  shingles, 
but  will  not  last  half  as  long  as  white  cedar. 

Shingles  are  packed  250  to  the  bundle, 
or  4  bundles  to  i  ,000. 

I  Bundle  16-inch  shingles  will  cover  30 
square  feet. 

I  Bundle  18- inch  shingles  will  cover  33 
square  feet. 

When  laid  5  >^  inches  to  the  weather ,  5  lbs . 
4°  or  3^  lbs.  3°  nails  will  lay  i  ,000  shingles. 

Clap- Boards. 

I  Bundle  laid  3}^  inches  to  the  weather 
will  cover  26  square  feet. 

Painting. 

For  outside  wood  work,  paint  made  from 
white  lead  ground  in  linseed  oil  is  most 
used.  If  the  oil  is  7'aw,  or  unboiled,  d?yer 
is  added  ;  if  boiled,  no  dryer  is  necessary. 
Not  less  than  four  coats  should  be  applied — 
five  are  better. 

Paint,  ready  mixed,  put  up  in  cans  or 
kegs,  may  be  procured  from  manufacturers 
or  dealers.  These  paints  have  to  be  thinned 
by  adding  i  pint  of  oil  to  about  2)4  lbs.  of 
paint.  When  thinned,  i  lb.  will  cover 
about  2  square  yards  of  first-coat,  3  yards 
of  second,  and  4  yards  of  each  subsequent 
coat ;  or  i^  lbs.  to  the  square  yard  will  be 
required  for  4  coats,  and  i^^  lbs.  for  5  coats. 

For  inside  ivork,  either  white  lead  or 
oxide  of  zinc  is  used,  and  for  good  work  4 
coats  are  necessary. 

For  iron  exposed  to  the  zveather,  metallic 
paints,  such  as  yellow  and  red  iron  ochres 
or  brown  hematite  ore,  finely  pulverized 
and  mixed  with  oil  or  dryer,  are  best. 


For  iron  subject  to  the  action  of  water,  red 
lead  is  best. 

Plastered  walls  should  stand  a  year 
before  painting. 

Painting  is  measured  by  the  square  yard, 
girding  every  part  of  the  work  that  is 
covered  by  paint  and  allowing  an  addition 
to  the  actual  surface  for  the  difficulty  of 
covering  deep  quirk  of  moldings  and  for 
"  cutting  in  "  as  in  sash  and  shelving,  or 
where  there  is  a  change  of  color,  on  same 
work. 

Painter's  Putty. 

Spanish  whiting,  1  Made  into  a  stiff  paste. 

pulverized,  80.6  1    If  not  intended  for  im- 

Boiled  oil,     20.4  |    mediate    use,   raw    oil 

J    should  be  used. 

One  pound  of  putty  for  stopping  every 

20  yards. 

Glazier's  Putty. 

Whiting,  70  lbs. ;  boiled  oil,  30  lbs.  ; 
water,  2 '  galls.  Mix.  If  too  thin,  add 
more  whiting  ;  if  too  thick,  add  more  oil. 

To  Soften  Putty. 

To  remove  old  putty  from  broken  win- 
dows, dip  a  small  brush  in  nitro-muriatic 
acid  or  caustic  soda  (concentrated  lye),  and 
with  it  anoint  or  paint  over  the  dry  puttj' 
that  adheres  to  the  broken  glass  and  frames 
of  your  windows  ;  after  an  hour's  interval 
the  putty  will  have  become  so  soft  as  to  be 
easily  removable. 

White  and  Other  Washes. 

For  outside  wood-work.  In  a  tight 
bushel,  slake  half  a  bushel  of  fresh  lime 
by  pouring  over  it  boiling  water  sufficient 
to  cover  it  4  or  5  inches  deep,  stir  until 
slaked  :  add  2  lbs.  of  sulphate  of  zinc  dis- 
solved in  water,  add  water  enough  to  bring 
all  to  the  consistency  of  thick  whitewash. 
42 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


29 


For  inside  work.  Add  2  quarts  of  thin 
size  to  a  pailful  of  wash  just  before  using. 
The  common  practice  of  mixing  salt  with 
whitewash  should  not  be  permitted. 

For  brick  or  sto7ie-work.  Slake  ^  bushel 
3f  lime,  as  before,  in  a  barrel ;  then  fill  the 
barrel  Yi  full  of  water  and  add  a  bushel  of 
hydraulic  cement ;  add  3  lbs.  sulphate  of 
zinc  dissolved  in  water.  These  washes 
may  be  colored  by  adding  powdered  ochre, 
umber,  etc. 

Stone-Work. 

A  perch  of  stone  work  is  i  rod  long, 
ij^  feet  thick  and  i  foot  high,  and  con- 
tains 24^  cubic  feet. 

A  cord  of  stone,  like  a  cord  of  wood, 
contains  128  cubic  feet,  a-d  will  make  a 
100  cubic  feet  of  wall.  Three  bushels  of 
lime  and  a  cubic  yard  of  sand  are  usually 
estimated  for  a  cord  of  stone . 

Stone  walls  are  measured  by  the  percai 
(24^  cubic  feet).  Openings  less  than  3  feet 
wide  are  counted  solid  ;  over  3  feet  deduc- 
ted, but  18  inches  are  added  to  the  running 
measure  for  each  jamb  built.  Arches  are 
counted  solid  from  their  spring.  Corners 
of  buildings  are  measured  twice.  Pillars 
less  than  3  feet  are  counted  on  3  sides  as 
lineal,  multiplied  by  fourth  side  and 
depth. 

It  is  customary  to  measure  all  founda- 
tion and  dimension  stone  by  the  cubic  foot. 
Water  tables  and  base  courses  by  lineal  feet. 
All  sills  and  lintels  or  ashlar,  by  superficial 
feet,  and  no  wall  less  than  18  inches  thick. 

The  greatest  safe  load  per  super.  f<iOt  on 

Granite  Piers 40  tons. 

Lime  stone  Piers 25 

Sand   stone  Piers 15 

Brickwork  in  Cement 3 

Rubble   Masonry 2 

Lime  Concrete  Foundations  .   .  i) 

The  height  of  brick  or  stone  piers  should  not 
sxceed  12  times  their  least  thickness  at  base. 

Concrete  Walls. 

Concrete  walls  for  houses  are  built  of  i 
of  cement  to  6  or  7  of  broken  stone,  shingle, 
gravel,  or  slag.  The  substance  mixed  with 
the  cement  must  be  free  from  loam,  fine 
sand,  clay,  or  dirt  of  any  kind. 

To   prevent  the  cement  from  ac^hering 

to  the  planks  of  the  mould,  apply  freely  to 

J4  ' 


them,  with  a  brush,  soap  boiled  to  the  con- 
stancy of  paint. 

Plastering. 

Estimate  of  material  for  100  square  yards. 


Materials 


Quicklime 

' '        for  fine  stuff  . 
Plaster  oi  Paris  .... 

Laths 

Hair 

Common  Sand    .    .    .    . 

White  Sand 

Nails      

Mason's  labor 

Laborer 


Two  coats 

slipped 
coat  finish 


y/i  casks 


2,000 

3  bushels 
6  loads 

13  lbs. 
ZYz  days 


Three  coats 

with 
hard  finish 


4     casks 


2,000 
4  bushels 
7  loads 
2>^  bushels 
13  lbs. 
4  days 
3    " 


Plastering  laths  are  usually  of  white  or  yellow 
pine,  i^  inches  wide,  %  inch  thick,  and  3  or  4 
feet  long.  They  are  nailed  up  horizontally,  about 
Yz  inch  apart.  The  upright  stud  of  partitions  are 
spaced  at  such  distances  apart,  (usually  about  15 
inches  centre  to  centre),  that  the  ends  of  the 
laths  may  be  nailed  to  them.  Laths  are  sold  in 
bundles  of  1,000  each.  A  square  foot  of  surface  re- 
quires ^Yz  four-feet  laths,  or  1,000  such  laths  will 
cover  666  square  feet.  A  carpenter  can  nail  up  the 
laths  for  from  40  to  60  square  yards  of  plastering  in 
a  day  of  ten  hours,  depending  on  the  number  of 
angles  in  the  room,  etc. 

Plastering  is  always  measured  by  the  square 
yard  for  plain  work,  by  the  superficial  foot  for 
cornices  of  plain  members,  and  by  lineal  foot  for 
enriched  or  carved  mouldings  in  cornices. 

Brick-Work. 

Brick-work  is  generally  measured  by 
1,000  bricks  laid  in  the  wall.  In  conse- 
quence of  variations  in  size  of  bricks,  no 
rule  for  volume  of  laid  brick  can  be  exact. 
The  following  scale  is  given  as  a  fair  aver- 
age for  general  use. 

Bricks  to  a  super,  foot 


7 
14 
21 
28 
35 


\''  Wall=  40  lbs. 
9^/       "  =  94     " 
jy/        «<   _j2i      «' 

18^'        "   =168      " 
22^/        «»    ^210      " 


Corners  are  not  measured  twice  as  in  stone- 
work. Openings  over  2  feet  square  are  deducted. 
Arches  are  counted  from  the  spring.  Fancy  work 
counted  i>^  bricks  for  i.  Pillars  are  measured  on 
their  face  only. 

A  cubic  yard  of  mortar  requires  i  cubic  yard  of 
sand  and  9  bushels  of  lime,  and  will  fill  50  hods. 

One  thousand  bricks,  closely  stacked,  occupy 
about  56  cubic  feet. 

One  thousand  old  bricks,  cleaned  and  loosely 
stacked,  occupy  about  72  cubic  feet. 

One  superficial  foot  of  gauged  arches  requires 
10  bricks. 
43 


30 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


Stock  bricks  commonly  measure  824^  inches  by 
4^  inches  by  2)^  inches,  and  weigh  from  5  to  6 
lbs.  each. 

Paving-bricks  should  measure  9  inches  by  4j^ 
inches  by  i^^f  inches,  and  weigh  about  4^  lbs. 
each. 

One  yard  of  paving  requires  36  stock  bricks, 
of  above  dimensions,  laid  flat,  or  52  on  edge  ;  and 
35  paving  bricks  laid  flat,  or  82  on  edge. 

Slating. 

A  square  of  slate  or  slating  is  100  super- 
ficial feet. 

In  measuring,  the  width  of  the  eaves  is 
allowed  at  the  widest  part.  Hips,  valleys, 
and  cutting  are  to  be  measured  lineal,  and 
6  inches  width  extra  is  allowed. 

The  thickness  of  slates  ranges  from  3-16 
to  5-16  of  a  inch,  and  their  weight  varies 
from  2.6  to  4.5  lbs.  per  square  foot. 

The  lap  of  slates  varies  from  2  to  4 
inches.  The  standard  is  assumed  to  be  3 
inches. 

To  compute  the  nutnber  of  slates  of  a  given 
size  required  per  squares. 

Subtract  3  inches  from  the  length  of  the 
slate,  multiply  the  remainder  by  the  width 
and  divide  by  2.  Divide  14.400  by  the 
number  so  found,  and  the  result  will  be  the 
number  of  slates  required. 

The  pitch  of  a  slate  roof  should  not  be 
less  than  i  in.  height  to  4  in.  length. 

Dimensions  of  slates. and  numbers  re- 
quired to  a  square.  12x6  requires  533  to 
the  square ;  14x9  requires  291  ;  18x9  re- 
quires 213;   24x13  requires  105. 

Rules  for  Obtaining  Approximate 
Weight  of  Iron. 

For  Round  Bars. 
Rule :  Multiply  the  square  of  the  diameter  in 
inches  by  the  length  in  feet,   and  that  product  by 
2.6.     The  product  will  be  the  weight  in  pounds, 
nearly. 

For  Square  and  Flat  Bars. 
Rule  :  Multiply  the  area  of  the  end  of  the  bar 
in  inches  by  the  length  in  feet,  and  that  by  3. 32. 
The  product  will  be  the  weight  in   pounds,  nearly. 

Wrought  Iron,  usually  assumed  : 
A  cubic  foot  =r48o  lbs. 

A  square  foot,  i  inch  thick  =40     " 

A  bar  i  in.  square,  i  foot  long    =     3>^" 
A     "     "  "         I  yard  long    =  10     " 

To  fiiid  the  weight  of  Cast- Iron  Balls  when 

the  diameter  is  given. 

Rule:  Multiply  the  cube  of  the  diameter  by 

•1377- 


To  find  the  diameter  of  Cast- Iron  Balls  ivhen 
the  weight  is  given. 

Rule :  Multiply  the  cube  root  of  the  weight 
by  1.936. 

To  find  the  weight  of  a  Spherical  Shell. 

From  the  weight  of  a  ball  of  the  outer  di- 
ameter subtract  the  weight  of  the  inner  diameters. 

To  Test  Quality  of  Iron. 

If  fracture  gives  long  silky  fibres  of 
leaden-gray  hue,  fibres  cohering  and  twist- 
ing together  before  breaking,  may  be  con- 
sidered a  tough,  soft  iron.  A  medium  even 
grain  mixed  with  fibres,  a  good  sign.  A 
short,  blackish  fibre  indicates  badly-refined 
iron.  A  very  fine  grain  denotes  a  hard, 
steely  ij'on,  apt  to  be  cold,  short,  hard  to 
work  with  the  file.  Coarse  grain  with 
brilliant  crystallized  fracture,  yellow  or 
brown  spots,  denotes  a  brittle  iro7i,  cold, 
short,  working  easily  when  heated  ;  welds 
easily.  Cracks  on  the  edge  of  bars,  sign  of 
hot,  short  iron.  Good  iron  is  readily 
heated,  soft  under  the  hammer,  and  throws 
out  but  few  sparks. 

All  iron  contains  more  or  less  carbon — 
the  hardest  the  most. 

The  breaking  strain  on  various  metals 
is  shown  in  the  following  table,  the  size  of 
the  rod  tested  being  in  each  case  one  inch 
square,  and  the  number  of  pounds  the  actual 
breaking  strain  : 

Pounds. 

Hard  steel, 150,000 

Soft  steel, 120,000 

Best  Swedish  iron, 84,000 

Ordinary  bar  iron, 70,000 

Silver, 41,000 

Copper, 35.000 

Gold, 22,000 

Tin, 5.500 

Zinc, 2,600 

Lead, 860 

Average  Weight  of  Animals. 

Cart-horse,  14  cwt.  Riding-horse,  11  cwt. 

Ox,         7  to  8    "  Pig,  I  to  i>^    " 

Cow,  6>^  to  8    "  Sheep,  i 

Average  weight  of  a  man,  140  lbs. 

A  dense  crowd  of  people,  85  lbs.  pel 
square  foot. 
44 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


31 


Average  Number  of   Cubic  Feet  Per   Ton    of 

Various  Substances  for  Estimating 

Work  or  Stowage. 

Iron 4.7 

Ivcad 3.2 

Brick 22 

Clay 22 

Sand 24 

Earth,  loose 28 

Granite 16 

Oak 39.5 


Ash      45 

Cedai 72 

Mahogany,  sp 45 

Deal 50 

Pine,  red 55 

"     yellow 77 

Water,  fresh 36 

salt '.    .    .    .  35 

Coke 90 

Coal  (stowed) 48 

Wood  (equivalent)  requires 288 


WORKSHOP  RECIPES 


A  Home=Made  Lubricator. — Tallow  and 
plumbago  thoroughly  mixed  make  the  best  lubri- 
cator for  surfaces  when  one  is  wood  or  when  both 
are  wood.  Oil  is  not  so  good  as  tallow  to  mix  with 
plumbago  for  the  lubrication  of  wooden  surfaces, 
because  oil  penetrates  and  saturates  the  wood  to  a 
greater  degree  than  tallow,  causing  it  to  swell  more. 

To  Protect  Metal  Surfaces  From  Rusting. 
— Melt  I  oz.  of  resin  in  a  gill  of  linseed  oil,  and 
while  hot  mix  with  it  two  quarts  of  kerosene  oil. 
This  can  be  kept  ready  to  apply  at  any  time  with  a 
brush  or  rag  to  any  tools  or  implements  required 
to  lay  by  for  a  time,  preventing  any  rust,  and  sav- 
ing much  vexation  when  the  tool  is  to  be  used 
again. 

Qlue  to  Resist  Moisture. — i  lb.  cf  glue 
melted  in  2  quarts  skim-milk. 

Marine  Qlue. — i  part  of  India-rubber,  12  parts 
of  mineral  naphtha  or  coal-tar.  Heat  gently,  mix, 
and  add  20  parts  of  powdered  shellac.  Pour  out  on 
a  slab  to  cool.  When  used,  to  be  heated  to  about 
250°. 

Glue  Cement  to  Resist  Moisture. — i  part 
glue,  I  part  black  rosin,  ^  part  red  ochre.  Mixed 
with  least  possible  quantity  of  water.  Or  4  parts  of 
glue,  or  I  part  oxide  of  iron,  i  part  of  boiled  oil 
(by  weight). 

To  Remove  Rust  From  Steel. — Steel  which 
has  been  rusted  can  be  cleaned  by  brushing  with  a 
paste  compound  of  ^  oz.  cyanide  potassium,  y^  oz. 
castile  soap,  i  oz.  whiting,  and  water  sufficient  to 
form  a  paste.  The  steel  should  be  washed  with  a 
solution  of  Yz  oz.  cyanide  potassium  in  2  oz.  water. 

To  Preserve  Steel  From  Rust. — i  part 
caoutchouc,  16  parts  turpentine.  Dissolve  with  a 
gentle  heat,  then  add  8  parts  boiled  oil.  Mix  by 
bringing  them  to  the  heat  of  boiling  water  ;  apply 
to  the  steel  with  a  brush,  in  the  way  of  varnish.  It 
may  be  removed  with  turpentine. 

To  Clean  Brass. — i  part  Roche  alum  and  16 
parts  water.  Mix.  The  articles  to  be  cleaned  must 
be  made  warm,  then  rubbed  with  the  above  mix- 
ture, and  finished  with  fine  tripoli. 

Blue  Print  Solution  for  Photographer.— i 
pint  citrate  of  iron  ammonia,  2  pints  red  prussiate 
of  potash,  I  pint  gum  arable,  3  pints  water. 

Do.— i^  oz.  red  prussiate  of  potash  in  11  oz. 
water,  i^  oz.  citrate  of  ammonia  in  5  oz.  water. 
Mix  together  and  keep  in  dark  place.  Corrections 
can  be  made  with  a  pen  dipped  in  a  solution  of 

I 


caustic  soda.     Also  by  bi-carbonate  of  soda.     Also 
by  a  solution  of  lime. 

Tinning  Acid  for  Zinc  or  Brass.— Zinc,   3 

oz.;  muriatic  acid,  i  pt.     Dissolve,  and  add  i  pt. 
water  and  i  oz.  sal-ammoniac. 

To  Solder  Brass  Easily. — Cut  out  a  piece  of 
tinfoil  the  size  of  the  surface  to  be  soldered.  Then 
apply  to  the  surface  a  solution  of  sal-ammoniac  for 
a  flux.  Place  the  tinfoil  between  the  pieces,  and 
apply  a  hot  soldering-iron  uutil  the  tinfoil  is  melted. 

To  Solder  Without  Heat.— Steel  filings,  2 
oz.;  brass  filings,  2  oz. ;  fluoric  acid,  iX  oz.  Dis- 
solve the  fillings  in  the  acid,  and  apply  to  the  parts 
to  be  soldered,  having  first  thoroughly  cleaned  the 
parts  to  be  connected.  Keep  the  fluoric  acid  in 
earthen  or  lead  vessels  only. 

To  Tin  Brass  and  Copper. — Make  a  mixture 
of  3  lbs.  cream  of  tartar,  4  lbs.  tin  shavings,  and  2 
gallons  water,  and  boil.  After  the  mixture  has 
boiled  sufficiently,  ptit  in  the  articles  to  be  tinned, 
and  continue  the  boiling.  The  tin  will  be  precipi- 
tated on  the  articles. 

To  Use  in  Case  of  Burns. — A  free  application 
of  soft  soap  to  a  fresh  burn  almost  instantly  removes 
the  fire  from  the  flesh.  If  the  injury  is  very  severe, 
as  soon  as  the  pain  ceases  apply  linseed  oil,  and 
then  dust  over  with  fine  flour.  When  this  covering 
dries  hard,  repeat  the  oil  and  flour  dressing  until  a 
good  coating  is  obtained.  When  the  latter  dries, 
allow  it  to  stand  until  it  cracks  and  falls  off,  as  it 
will  in  a  day  or  two,  and  a  new  skin  will  be  found 
to  have  formed  where  the  skin  was  burned. 

How  to  Mix  Inks  or  Paints  for  Tints. — A 
larger  quantity  of  the  first-named  color  must 
always  be  used.  Dark  green  and  purple  make 
bottle  green.  White  and  medium  yellow  make 
buff  tint.  Red,  black,  and  blue  make  dark  brown.  - 
Bronze  blue,  lemon  yellow,  and  black  make  dark 
green.  White,  medium  yellow,  and  black  make 
drab  tint.  Whive,  lake,  and  lemon  yellow  make 
flesh  tint.  Lemon  yellow  and  bronze  blue  make 
grass  green.  White  and  black  make  gray  tint. 
White  and  purple  make  lavender  tint.  Red,  black, 
and  medium  yellow  make  maroon.  L'lke  and 
purple  make  magenta.  Medium  yellow  and  purple 
make  olive  green.  Medium  yellow  and  red  make 
orange.  White,  ultramarine  blue,  and  black  make 
pearl  tint.  White  and  lake  make  pink.  Ultra- 
marine blue  and  lake  make  purple.  Orange,  lake, 
and  purple  make  russet.    Medium  yellow,  red.  and 


45 


i^ 


THE  PRACnCAL  MECHANIC 


white  make  sienua.  White  and  ultramarine  blue 
make  sky  blue.  Ultramarine  blue,  black,  and 
white  make  slate.  Vermillion  and  black  make 
Turkey  red.  White,  yellow,  red,  ^ud  black  make 
umber. 

Time=Savers. — We  give  the  following  figures 
as  worth  remembering.  They  will  save  calculation 
and  give  approximately  accurate  results  with  least 
amount  of  labor: 

Four  loads,  (cubic  yds.)  of  stone,  three  bushels 
of  lime  and  a  cubic  yard  of  sand,  will  lay  one 
hundred  cubic  feet  of  wall. 

Five  courses  of  brick  will  lay  a  foot  in  height 
on  a  chimney. 

Nine  bricks  in  a  course  will  make  a  flue  eight 
inches  wide  and  twenty  inches  long,  and  eight 
bricks  in  a  course  will  make  a  flue  eight  inches 
wide  and  sixteen  inches  long. 

Eight  bushels  of  good  lime,  sixteen  bushels  of 
sand  and  one  bushel  of  hair,  will  make  enough 
mortar  to  plaster  oue  hundred  square  yards. 

One-fifth  more  siding  and  flooring  is  needed 
than  the  number  of  square  feet  of  surface  to  be 
covered,  because  j^f  the  lap  in  the  siding  and  match- 
ing of  the  floor. 

One  thousand  laths  will  cover  seventy  yards 
of  surface,  and  eleven  pounds  of  lath  nails  will 
nail  them  on. 

One  thousand  shingles  laid  four  inches  to  the 
weather,  will  cover  one  hundred  square  feet  of  sur- 
face, and  five  pounds  of  shingle  nails  will  fasten 
them  on. 

A  Polish  for  Wocd. — The  wooden  parts  of 
tools,  such  as  the  stocks  of  planes  and  handles  of 
chisels,  are  often  made  to  have  a  nice  appearance 
by  French  polishing ;  but  this  adds  nothing  to 
their  durability.  A  much  better  plan  is  to  let  them 
soak  in  linseed  oil  for  a  week,  and  rub  with  a  new 
cloth  for  a  few  minutes  every  day  for  a  week  or 
two.  This  produces  a  beautiful  surface,  and  has  a 
solidifying  effect  on  the  wood. 

To  Calculate  the  Number  of  Shingles  for  a 
Roof. — To  calculate  number  of  shingles  for  a  roof, 
ascertain  number  of  square  feet,  and  multiply  by 
four,  if  two  inches  to  weather,  8  for  4><  inches ; 
and  7  1-5  if  5  inches  are  exposed.  The  length  of  a 
rafter  of  one-third  pitch  is  equal  to  three-fifths  of 
width  of  building  adding  projection. 

A  Chimney  that  Will  Draw.— To  build  a 
chimney  that  will  draw  forever,  and  not  fill  up  with 
soot,  you  must  build  it  large  enough,  sixteen  inches 
square  ;  use  good  brick,  and  clay  instead  of  lime 
up  to  the  comb  ;  plaster  it  inside  with  clay  mixed 
with  salt ;  for  chimney  tops  use  the  very  best  of 
brick,  wet  them  and  lay  them  in  cement  mortar. 
The  chimney  should  not  be  built  tight  to  beams 
and  rafters ;  there  is  where  the  cracks  in  your 
chimney  comes,  and  where  most  of  the  fires  origi- 
nate, as  the  chimney  sometimes  get  red  hot.  A 
chimney  built  from  the  cellar  up  is  better  and  less 
dangerous  than  one  hung  on  the  wall. 

Keeping  Tools. — Keep  your  tools  handy  and 
in  good  condition.  This  applies  everywhere  and 
in  every  place,  from  the  smallest  shop  to  the  great- 

146 


est  mechanical  establishment  in  the  world.  Every 
tool  should  have  its  exact  place,  and  should  always 
be  kept  there  when  not  in  use. 

Keeping  tools  in  good  order,  and  ready  to  use, 
is  as  necessary  as  keeping  them  in  the  proper 
place.  To  take  up  a  dull  saw,  or  a  dull  chisel,  and 
try  to  do  any  kind  of  work  with  it,  is  worse  than 
pulling  a  boat  with  a  broom,  and  it  all  comes  from 
just  the  same  source  as  throwing  down  tools  care- 
lessly— habit,  nothing  more  or  less.  To  say  you 
have  no  time  to  sharpen  is  worse  than  outright 
lying,  for,  if  you  have  time  to  use  a  dull  tool,  you 
have  time  to  put  it  in  good  order. 

Three  Thermometer  Scales. — There  are 
three  standard  thermometers  in  use,  each  a  recog- 
nized standard  iu  oue  or  another  part  of  the  world. 
The  scale  of  Reaumur  (R.)  prevails  in  Germany. 
As  is  well  known,  he  divides  the  space  between  the 
freezing  and  boiling  points  into  80°.  France  uses 
that  of  Celsius  (C),  who  graduated  his  scale  on  the 
decimal  system.  The  most  peculiar  scale  of  all 
however,  is  that  of  Fahrenheit  (F.),  a  renowned 
German  physicist,  who  in  1714  or  17 15  composed 
his  scale,  having  ascertained  that  water  can  oe 
cooled  under  the  freezing  point  without  congealing. 
He  did  not  take  the  congealing  point  of  water, 
which  is  uncertain,  but  composed  a  mixture  of  equal 
parts  of  snow  and  Sal  Ammoniac^  about — 14° 
R.  This  scale  is  preferable  to  both  those  of  Reau- 
mur and  Celsius,  or,  as  it  is  called,  Centigrade,  be 
cause:  i.  The  regular  temperatures  of  the  moderate 
zone  move  within  its  two  zeros,  and  can  therefore 
be  written  without  +  or  — •  2.  The  scale  is  divided 
so  finely  that  it  is  not  necessary  to  use  fractions, 
when  careful  observations  are  to  be  made.  These 
advantages,  although  drawn  into  question  by  some, 
have  been  considered  so  weighty,  that  both  Great 
Britain  and  America  have  retained  the  scales,  while 
the  nations  of  the  Continent  use  the  other  two.  The 
conversion  of  any  one  of  these  scales  into  another 
is  very  simple,  i.  To  change  a  temperature  given 
by  Fahrenheit's  scale  into  the  same  given  by  the 
Centigrade  scale,  subtract  32°  from  Fahrenheit's 
degrees  and  multiply  the  remainder  by  5-9.  The 
product  will  be  the  temperature  in  Centigrade 
degrees.  To  change  from  Fahrenheit's  to  Reaumur's 
scale,  subtract  32°  from  Fahrenheit's  degrees,  and 
multiply  the  remainder  by  4-9.  The  product  will 
be  the  temperature  in  Reaumur's  degrees.  3.  To 
change  a  temperature  given  by  the  Centigrade 
scale  into  the  same  given  by  Fahrenheit,  multiply 
the  Centigrade  degrees  by  9-5,  and  add  32°  to  the 
product.  The  sum  will  be  the  temperature  by 
Fahrenheit's  scale.  4.  To  change  from  Reaumur's 
to  Fahrenheit's  scale,  multiply  the  degrees  on 
Reaumur's  scale  b}'  9-4,  and  add  32°  to  the  product. 
The  sum  will  be  the  temperature  by  Fahrenheit's 
scale. 

Weighing  Liquids.— One  gallon  of  pure 
water  weighs  nearly  8>^  lbs.  avoirdupois.  "A 
pint  is  a  pound  "  is  an  old  saying,  and  very  nearly 
true.  The  gallon  containing  231  cubic  inches,  is 
the  standard  unit  of  wine  measure.  The  British 
gallon,  called  the  Imperial  gallon,  contains  277.274 
cubic  inches. 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


33 


ENGINES  AND  BOILERS 


steam  Boilers. — For  all  boilers  three  differ- 
ent parts,  viz.,  fire-surface,  water-space  ar.d  steam- 
room,  must  be  considered.  Kach  part  or  division 
has  a  distinct  and  separate  duty  to  perform.  The 
fire-surface  includes  "the  furnace  and  combustion 
chamber,  flues  and  tubes  ;  the  water-space  is  that 
part  occupied  by  the  water  ;  and  the  steam-room 
is  the  reservoir  which  holds  and  supplies  the  steam 
necessary  to  run  the  engine. 

For  convenience,  we  may  state  that  all  steam- 
boilers  are  either  internally  or  externally  fired. 
When  the  fuel  is  burned  in  an  iron  furnace  sur- 
rounded with  a  water-jacket  or  water-log,  as  in  the 
case  of  the  locomotive,  marine  and  portable  boilers, 
they  are  internally  fired.  Cylinder- flue,  double- 
deck,  tubulous  and  sectional  boilers  are  said  to  be 
externally  fired,  because  the  fuel  is  burned  in  a 
brick  furnace  lined  with  fire-brick. 

A  perfect  steam-boiler  should  be  made  of  the 
best  material  sanctioned  by  use,  and  should  be 
simple  in  construction.  It  should  have  a  constant 
and  thorough  circulation  of  water  throughout  the 
boiler,  so  as  to  maintain  all  parts  at  one  tempera- 
ture. 

There  should  be  a  combustion  chamber  so  ar- 
ranged that  the  combustion  of  the  gases  com- 
menced in  the  furnace  may  be  completed  before 
the  escape  to  the  chimney. 

Have  all  parts  readily  accessible  for  cleaning 
and  repairs. 

In  every  boiler  there  should  be  ample  water- 
surface  for  the  disengagement  of  the  steam  from 
the  water  in  order  to  prevent  foaming.  There 
should  also  be  a  large  excess  of  strength  over  any 
legitimate  strain,  and  proportioned  for  the  work 
to  be  done. 

Only  the  very  best  gauges,  safety-valves,  fusible 
plugs,  and  other  fixtures  should  be  used. 

Jn  a  water-tube  boiler  there  should  be  from 
lo  to  12  square  feet  of  heating  surface  for  one 
horse-power  ;  in  a  tubular  boiler  14  to  18  square 
feet  of  heating  surface  for  one  horse- power  ;  in  a 
flue  boiler  8  to  12  square  feet  of  heating  surface  for 
one  horse-power  ;  a  plain  cylinder  boiler  should 
have  from  6  to  10  square  feet  of  heating  surface  for 
one  horse-power  ;  a.  locomotive  ^£>z7^r  should  have 
12  to  16  square  feet  of  heating  surface  for  one  horse- 
power ;  a  vertical  boiler  should  have  from  15  to  20 
square  feet  of  heating  surface  for  one  horse-power. 

When  considering  the  heating  surface  of  a 
boiler,  a  vertical  or  upright  surface  has  only  one- 
half  the  evaporative  value  of  a  horizontal  surface 
above  the  flamet ;  that  is,  the  sides  of  a  locomotive 
fire-box  are  only  half  as  effective  per  square  foot  as 
the  flat  top  of  the  box.  In  flues  and  tubes,  the  effct- 
ive  surface,  measured  on  the  circumference,  is  i^( 
dmes  the  diameter. 

Useful  Rules  for  Calculations. 

To  find  the  fire-grate  surface  of  flue  boilers. 
^-Square  the  nominal  horse-power,  and  divide  it 
by  the  heating  surface  in  square  yards  ;  the  quo- 
tient will  be  the  fire-grate  surface  in  square  fefet — 


147 


or,  one  square  foot  of  fire-grate  surface  per  nominal 
horse-power. 

7o  find  the  heating  surface  of  a  flue  boiler. 
— Square  the  nominal  horse- power  as  indicated  by 
the  manufacturer's  receipt  or  bill  of  sale,  and  divide 
that  by  the  fire  grate  surface  in  square  feet ;  the 
quotient  will  be  the  heating  surface  in  square 
yards. 

Capacity  of  boiler  flue. — One  cubic  yard  of 
boiler  capacity  for  each  nominal  horse-power. 
Steain-rootn  should  be  about  eight  times  the  con- 
tents of  the  cylinder  of  the  engine  supplied  with 
steam  bv  the  boiler. 

Tubular  or  marine  boilers. — Each  nominal 
horse  power  requires  the  evaporation  of  one  cubic 
foot  of  water  per  hour  ;  12  square  feet  of  heating 
surface,  only  three-fourths  of  the  whole  tube  sur- 
face being  taken  as  effective  ;  and  30  square  inches 
of  fire-grate  per  nominal  horse-power.  The  sec- 
tional area  of  the  tubes  to  be  about  one-sixth  of 
the  fire  grate. 

General  rule  for  all  classes  of  boilers. — 
Twelve  square  feet  of  heating  surface  and  three- 
fourths  square  foot  of  fire-grate  per  nominal  horse- 
power, are  very  good  proportions. 

temp:erature  indicated  by  the  coi.or  of 

THE  EIRE. 

To  determine  the  temperature  of  a  furnace  fire 
from  the  color  of  the  flame  : 

Faint  red 960°  F. 

Bright  red 1,300°  F. 

Cherry  red 1,600°  F. 

Dull  orange 2,000°  F. 

Bright  orange 2,100°  F. 

White  heat 2,400°  F. 

Brilliant  white  heat 2,700°  F. 

How  to  Care  for  Boilers. 

Every  one  who  owns  a  steam-boiler,  as  well  as 
the  engineer  who  is  responsible  for  the  same, 
should  at  all  times  exercise  the  greatest  care.  A 
fifteen-story  building  may  be  fire-proof  and  ever 
so  strong,  yet  a  defective  boiler  in  the  basement  or 
carelessness  in  its  management,  may  cause  an 
explosion  which  will  wreck  the  whole  structure. 
The  following  suggestions  are  important : 

I.  Great  care  should  be  exercised  to  see 
that  safety-valves  are  ample  in  size  and  in  working 
order.  Overloading  or  neglect  frequently  leads  to 
the  most  disastrous  results.  Safety-valves  should 
be  tried  at  least  once  a  day  to  see  if  they  will  act 
properly. 

2.'  The  first  duty  of  an  engineer  before  start- 
ing is  to  see  that  the  water  is  at  the  proper  height. 
Do  not  rely  on  glass  gauges,  floats  or  water  alarms, 
but  try  the  gauge-cocks. 

3.  The  steam-gauge  should  stand  at  zero 
when  the  pressure  is  off,  and  it  should  show  same 
pressure  as  the  safety-valve  when  the  latter  is  blow- 
mg  off.  If  not,  then  one  is  wrong,  and  the  gauge 
should  be  tested  by  one  known  to  be  correct. 


34 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


4.  Both  gauge-cocks  and  water-gauges  must 
be  kept  clean.  Water-gauges  should  be  blown  out 
frequently,  and  the  glasses  and  passages  to  gauge 
kept  clean. 

5.  Feed-pumps  or  injectors  should  be  kept 
in  perfect  order,  and  of  ample  size.  No  make  of 
pump  can  be  expected  to  be  continuously  reliable 
without  regular  and  careful  attention.  It  is  always 
safe  to  have  two  means  of  feedmg  the  boiler.  Check- 
valves  and  self  acting  feed-valves  should  be  fre- 
quently examined  and  cleaned.  Satisfy  yourself 
that  the  valve  is  actmg  when  the  feed-pump  is  at 
work. 

6.  Cold  water  should  never  be  fed  into  a 
boiler  if  it  can  be  avoided,  but,  when  necessary,  it 
should  be  caused  to  mix  with  the  heated  water 
before  coming  in  contact  with  any  portion  of  the 
boiler. 

7.  In  case  of  low  water  immediately  cover  the 
fire  with  ashes  (wet  if  possible)  or  any  earth  that 
may  be  at  hand.  If  nothing  else  is  handy  use 
fresh  coal.  Draw  fires  as  soon  as  it  can  be  done 
without  incre.ising  the  heat'.  Neither  turn  on  the 
feed,  start  or  slof^  engine,  or  lift  safety-valve  until 
fires  are  out  a  11 J  (i.  e  boiler  cooled  doivn. 

8.  Fusible  plugs,  when  used,  niu'^t  be  exam- 
ined when  the  boiler  is  cleaned,  and  carefully 
scraped  clean  on  both  water  and  fire  sides,  or  they 
are  liable  not  to  act.  ' 

9.  Moderately  thick  fires  are  most  economical, 
but  thin  firing  must  be  used  when  draught  is  poor. 
Take  care  to  keep  the  grates  evenly  covered,  and 
allow  no  air-holes  in  the  fire.  Be  especially  careful 
to  lay  the  coal  along  the  sides  and  in  the  corners. 
All  lumps  should  bebrokcu  into  the  size  of  aman's 
fist.  With  bituminous  coal,  firing  in  front,  and 
then  shoving  the  coal  back,  when  it  is  coked,  gives 
the  best  result.  Do  not  "  clean  "  fires  oftener  than 
necessary.  The  cleaning  of  the  fire  is  best  done,  in 
ordinary  working,  by  a  "rake,"  or  other  tool, 
working  on  the  under  side  of  the  grate,  and  not  by 
a  "slice-bar,"  driven  into  the  mass  of  fuel  above 
the  grates. 

10.  Clean  all  heating  surfaces  outside  and  in, 
or  there  will  be  serious  waste  of  fuel.  As  a  rule, 
never  allow  over  one-sixteenth  scales  or  soot  to 
colljct  on  surfaces  between  cleanings.  Hand-holes 
should  be  frequently  removed,  and  surfaces  exam- 
ined, particularly  in  case  of  a  new  boiler,  until 
proper  intervals  between  cleanings  have  been  estab- 
lished by  experience.  Examine  mud-drums  and 
remove  sediment  therefrom. 

11.  When  foaming  occurs  in  a  boiler,  check- 
ing the  outflow  of  the  steam  will  usually  stop  it.  If 
caused  by  dirty  water,  blowing  down  and  pump- 
ing up  will  generally  cure  it.  In  cases  of  violent 
foaming,  check  the  draught  and  cover  the  fires. 

12.  Never  empty  the  boiler  while  the  brick- 
work is  hot. 

13.  Don't  indulge  in  rapid  firing.  Steam 
should  be  raised  slowly  from  a  cold  boiler. 

14.  If  a  boiler  is  not  required  for  some  time, 
empty  and  dry  it  thoroughly.  If  this  is  imprac- 
tical, fill  it  quite  full  of  water,  and  put  in  a  quan- 
tity of  common  washing  soda. 


15.  All  things  about  the  boiler-room  should 
be  kept  clean  and  in  good  order.  Negligence 
tends  to  waste  and  decay. 

For  the  Engineer  and  Firemen 

Always  start  your  engine  slowly,  so  that  the 
air  and  water  condensation  can  be  expelled  from 
your  cold  cylinder  ;  then  you  will  gradually  bring 
it  to  its  regular  speed. 

Keep  open  the  drip  cock,  both  in  the  front  and 
back  ends  of  the  cylinder,  when  the  engine  is 
standing  still,  and  never  close  them  until  all  the 
water  has  dripped  out. 

Never  let  in  any  oil  or  tallow  to  your  cylinder 
until  it  is  made  hot  by  the  steam. 

Be  careful  not  to  put  in  too  much  oil  at  any 
time,  knowing,  as  you  do,  that  it  will  be  sent  to  the 
feed-water  causing  your  boiler  to  prime  and  foam. 

Always  oil  up  before  starting  your  engine. 

Generally,  when  you  pack  the  piston  packing, 
both  cylinder  and  packing  are  cold,  and  if  they  are 
screwed  or  wedged  in  very  tight  while  in  this  con- 
dition that  the  expansion,  when  exposed  to  the 
heat  of  the  steam,  will  induce  great  rigidity. 

Then  the  oil  or  lubricating  substance  cannot 
enter  between  the  surfaces  in  contact,  and  that 
great  friction,  heating  and  cutting  will  be  the 
result. 

When  packing  loses  its  elasticity  it  is  no  good, 
and  should  be  removed. 

Piston  or  valve-rod  packing,  should  never  be 
screwed  up  more  than  sufficient  to  prevent  it  from 
leaking,  and  that  the  softer  the  packing  the  longer 
it  will  last  and  the  better  your  engine  will  run. 

For  Steam = Heating  of  Houses. — To  esti- 
mate for  the  steam-heating  of  dwellings  it  is  safe 
to  allow  one  square  foot  of  boiler  surface  for  each 
ten  square  feet  of  radiating  surface.  Small  boilers 
should  be  larger  proportionately  than  large  boilers. 

Each  horse-power  of  boiler  will  supply  from 
250  to  350  feet  of  i-inch  conducting  pipes,  which 
equals  about  80  to  120  square  feet  of  radiating  sur- 
face. 

It  is  safe  to  estimate  that  under  ordinary  cir- 
cumstances, one  horse-power  of  boiler  capacity  will 
heat  about  as  follows : 

15,000  to  20,000  cubic  feet  in  brick  buildings  in 
blocks. 

10,000  to  15,000  cubic  feet  in  brick  stores  in 
blocks. 

10,000  to  15,000  cubic  feet  in  brick  dwellings, 
exposed  all  sides. 

7,000  to  10,000  cubic  feet  in  brick  mills,  shops, 
etc. 

7,000  to  10,000  cubic  feet  in  wooden  buildings 
exposed. 

6,000  to  10,000  cubic  feet  in  foundries  and 
wooden  shops. 

All  the  joints  should  be  made  steam  and  water 
tight,  as  the  slightest  leak  in  a  steam-heating  sys- 
tem is  apt  to  damage  furniture,  curtains,  carpets, 
etc.,  if  the  steam  is  intended  to  heat  a  dwelling. 
Red  or  white  lead  is  all  right  as  material  to  make 
up  joints,  but  graphite  is  much  better.  For  gas- 
kets there  is  nothing  better  than  asbestos. 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


35 


How  to  Thaw  Out  a  Frozen  Steani=Pipe. — 

A  good  way  to  thaw  out  a  frozea-up  steam-pipe,  is 
lo  take  some  old  cloth,  discarded  clothes,  waste,  old 
carpet,  or  anything  of  that  kind,  and  lay  on  the 
pipe  to  be  thawed  ;  then  get  some  boiling  hot  water 
and  pour  it  on.  The  cloth  will  hold  the  heat  on 
the  pipe,  and  thaw  it  out  in  five  minutes.  This 
holds  good  in  any  kind  of  a  freeze,  water-wheel, 
or  anything  else. 

Steam  as  a  Cleansing  Agent. — For  cleaning 
greasy  machinery  nothing  can  be  found  that  is 
more  useful  than  steam.  A  steam  hose  attached 
to  the  boiler  can  be  made  to  d  :>  better  work  in  a 
few  minutes  than  any  one  is  able  to  do  in  hours  of 
close  application.  The  principal  advantages  of 
steam  are,  that  it  will  penetrate  where  an  instru- 
ment will  not  enter,  and  where  anything  else  would 
be  ineffectual  to  accomplish  the  desired  result. 
Journal  boxes  with  oil  cellars  will  get  filthy  in 
lime,  and  are  difl&cult  to  clean  in  the  ordinary 
way  ;  but,  if  they  can  be  removed,  or  are  in  a 
favorable  place,  so  that  steam  can  be  used,  it  is  a 
veritable  play-work  to  rid  them  of  any  adhering 
substance.  What  is  especially  satisfactory  in  the 
use  of  steam,  is  that  it  does  not  add  to  the  filth. 
Water  and  oil  spread  the  foul  matter,  and  thus 
make  an  additional  amount  of  work. 

Suggestion  for  Hot=Water  Heating  Sys- 
tems.— Let  your  "  risers"  not  be  less  than  T-%" , 
for  smaller  pipes  goon  become  coated,  if  the  water 


used  contains  lime  or  other  matters  in  solution  or 
suspension. 

Galvanized  pipe  is  best;  it  does  not  become 
rusty  and  discolor  the  water. 

In  ordinary  pipe  be  sure  to  get  ' '  galvanized 
steam,"  and  not  "  galvanized  gas." 

Let  your  draw-off  services  be  for  bath  i" ,  to 
lavatories  \'' ,  for  hot  water  y^'' .  Do  not  make 
the  "draw-offs"  too  small;  it  takes  too  long  to 
drain  a  pipe  of  cold  water. 

The  larger  the  pipes  the  freer  the  circulation, 
and,  if  you  have  hard  water,  they  will  remain  in 
good  order  longer. 

Be  sure  that  all  joints  are  secure  and  free  from 
leaks,  and  always  look  through  a  pipe  before  fit- 
ting it  in  place,  to  see  that  there  is  no  dirt  or  im- 
pediment to  the  flow  of  the  water  through  it. 

Avoid  the  use  of  elbows  in  circulating  pipes, 
use  only  bends ;  if  you  cannotavoid  using  an  elbow, 
see  that  it  is  a  round  one. 

A  Cheap  Filter. — A  cheap  filter  which  any 
tinner  can  make  is  12  x  6  inches  in  size,  and  8  inches 
high.  The  water  flows  in  near  the  top,  and  on  the 
top  is  a  door  through  which  to  get  into  it  to  clean 
it.  The  outlet  pipe  at  the  bottom  projects  2 
inches  up  on  the  inside  to  hold  the  dirt  back.  A 
large  sponge  is  placed  inside,  which  forms  the 
filtering  medium,  which,  of  course,  can  be  cleaned 
as  often  as  desired.  The  place  of  the  sponge  may  be 
taken  by  powdered  charcoal  placed  in  a  cotton  bag. 


TABLES  OF  MEASURE  AND  WEIGHT 


Linjar  Measure. 

12  inches  =  i  foot 
3  feet       = 

"}  = 


5}i  yards 
leyi  feet 

320  rods 
5,280  feet 
4  rods 


I  yard. 
I  rod. 


100  links  J 


=  I  mile. 
=  I  chain. 


=  I  square  yard. 
:  square  rod. 


Square  Measure. 
144  square  inches  =  i  square  foot 
9  square  feet        =  i 

2,0%  square  yards   \    

272X  square  feet      J 
160      square  rods     \     _      ^^^ 
10      square  chains  J 

Cubic  Measure. 
1,728      cubic  inches  =  i  cubic  foot. 
27      cubic  feet        =  i  cubic  yard. 
128      cubic  feet        =  i  cord. 
24^     cubic  feet       =  i  perch  of  stone. 

Dry  Measure. 
2  pints  =  I  quart. 
8  quarts  =  i  peck. 

4  pecks  1^1  bushel. 

2150.4  cubic  inches  J 

Liquid  Measure. 
4  gills  =  I  pint. 
2  pints    =  I  quart. 


23 


149 


4  quarts  ")  „ 

I  cubic  inches    |  =  ^  ^^^on. 

Avoirdupois  Weight. 

16  ounces  1  , 

7,ooQ.grains    |  =  ^  P^"*^*!- 
2,000  pounds         rr:  I   ton. 
2,240  pounds       =  I  long  ton. 

Troy  Weight 
24  grains  =  i  pennyweight. 

21  pennyweights  =  I  ounce, 
12  ounces  ")  , 

5,760  grains     |   =  ^  POund. 

Apothecaries'  Weight. 
20  grains  =  i  scruple. 

3  scruples         =  i  fluid  dram. 

8  fluid  drams  =  i  ounce. 
12  fluid  ounces  =  i  pound. 

Apothecaries '  Measure. 
60  minims  =  i  fluid  dram. 

8  fluid  drams  =  i  ounce. 
10  fluid  ounces  =  i  pint. 

Time  Measure. 
60  seconds   =  i  minute. 
60  minutes  =  i  hour. 
24  hours        =  I  day. 
7  days  =  I  week. 

365  days  =  I  year. 

366  days         =r  I  leap  year. 


i^ 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


Circular  Measure. 
60  seconds  =  i  minute. 
60  minutes  ^=  i  degree. 
360  degrees  =^  i  circle 

English  Money. 
4  farthings  ^=  i  penny. 
12  pennies  =  i  shilling. 

20  shillings  =  i  pound. 

21  shillings  =  i  guinea. 

Surveyors^  Linear  Measure. 
7.92  inches  =  i  link. 

25       links  =  I  rod. 

100       links  or  four  rods  =  i  chaiL. 
80       chains  =  i  mile. 

Paper  Measure. 
24  sheets     =  i  quire. 
20  quires     =  i  ream. 

2  reams      =  i  bundle. 

5  bundles  =  i  bale. 

Notes. — The  chain  {ch.),  used  by  surveyors  is 
called  Gunter's  chain,  and  consists  of  100  links  (/.). 
Its  length  is  792  inches,  equal  to  66  feet,  or  4  rode. 
Its  divisions  are  decimal,  so  that  chains  and  links 
may  be  written  as  one  number  in  the  same  manner 
as  dollars  and  cents, 

Thus,  since  35  links  equal  .35  of  a  chain,  35 
links  is  written  25 .J5  chains. 

Any  year  the  number  of  which  is  exactly 
divisible  by  4,  but  not  by  100,  is  a  leap  year.  When 
the  number  is  divisible  exactly  by  400  it  is  also  a 
ieap  year. 

The  solar  or  tropical  year  has  a  length  of 
365  days,  5  hours,  48  minutes,  49.7  seconds. 

The  Metric  System. 

1.  The  Metric  System  of  weights  and  meas- 
ures has  been  legalized  in  the  United  States.  Its 
fundamental  unit  is  the  meter,  from  which  all  the 
other  units  of  the  system  are  derived.  The  meter 
is  equal  to  30.37  +  inches. 

2.  The  meter  is  defined  as  the  ten-millionth 
part  of  the  distance  from  the  Equator  to  the  North 
Pole,  measured  on  the  meridian  passing  through 
Paris.  Later  measurements  have  shown  that  the 
meter  does  not  exactly  correspond  with  the  length 
required  by  the  definition. 

3.  The  principal  point  of  superiority  of  the 
metric  measures  is  in  their  decimal  scale.  As  in 
the  case  of  United  States  money,  several  denomi- 
nations may  be  written  together  as  one  number. 
Thus,  9  Mm.  7  Km.  5  Hm.  3  Dm.  8  m.  4  dm.  6  cm. 
5  mm.  may  be  written  as  one  denomination  : 
97538465  mm.,  or  9753846.5  cm.,  or  97538.465  m., 
or  9  7538465  Mm.,  etc.  Reduction  ascending  and 
reduction  descending  thus  become  a  mere  matter 
of  moving  the  decimal  point. 

Metric  Heasures. 

10  millimeters  {mm.)  =  1  centimeter,  .  .  .  rm. 
10  centimeters  =  i  decimeter,  .  .  .  d/n. 
10  decimeters  =     i  meter, m. 


10  meters 
10  dekameters 
10  hektometers 
10  kilometers 


=  I  dekametei,  . 
=  1  hektometer, 
=  I  kilometer,  . 
I  myriameter, 


Dm 
Hm. 
K^n. 
Mm. 


Metric  Square  Measure 

100  sq.  millemeters 


^-^ — ^.  — .»^.„wv— „ 
100  sq.  centimeters 
100  sq.  decimeters 
100  sq.  meters 
100  sq.  dekameters 
100  sq.  hektometers 


I  sq.  centimeter, 
I  sq.  decimeter, 
I  sq.  meter, 
I  sq.  dekameter, 
I  sq.  hektometer, 
=     I  sq.  kilometer. 


100  sq.  hektometers     =     i  sq.  kilometer. 

Note. — The  principal  unit  is  the  square  meter, 
equal  to  1. 196  sq.  yds. 

Metric  Land  Measure. 

100  centares  (ca.)  =     i  are, a. 

100  ares  =     i  hectare, Ha. 

Note. — The  are,  equal  to  a  square  dekameter, 
or  100  square  meters,  is  119.6  square  yards,  very 
nearly.     The  hektare  is  equal  to  2.471  acres. 

Metric  Cubic  Measure. 

1000  cubic  millimeters  =     i  cubic  centimeter, 
1000  cubic  centimeters  =;     i  cubic  decimeter, 
1000  cubic  decimeters   =;     i  cubic  meter. 

Note. — The  cubic  vieler  is  equal  to  35.3166 
cubic  feet.  When  used  to  measure  wood  or  stone, 
it  is  called  a  stere  (pronounced  stair).  Ten  steres, 
called  a  dekastere,  are  equal  to  2.759  cords. 

rietric  Capacity  Measure. 


I  centiliter,  {cl.) 
I  deciliter,  {dl.) 
I  liter,  (/.) 
I  dekaliter,  {Dl.) 
I  hektoliter,  {HI.) 
I  kiloliter,  (A7.) 


10  milliliters  {ml.)      = 

10  centiliters  = 

10  deciliters  = 

10  liters  = 

10  dekaliters  ^= 

10  hektoliters  = 

The  liter,  {I.),  equal  to  a  cubic  decimeter,  is 
61.028  cubic  inches,  2.1135  pints,  or  33.816  fluid 
ounces.  The  unit  of  measure  for  small  quantities 
of  liquids,  as  in  mixing  medicines  and  in  philo- 
sophical experiments,  is  the  milliliter,  equal  to 
16.23  niinims. 

A  gallon  is  equal  to  5.785  /.,  and  2.8375  bush, 
make  a  HI. 

rietric  Weight. 


I  centigram,  {eg.) 
I  decigram,  {dg.) 
I  gram,  {g.) 
I  dekagram,  {Dg.) 
I  hektogram,  {Hg.) 
I  kilogram  or  kilo.  Kg 
I  tonne,  (7".) 


10  milligrams  {mg.)  = 

10  centigrams  = 

10  decigrams  = 

10  grams  .= 

10  dekagrams  = 

10  hektograms  = 

-000  kilos  = 

Note  i. — The  gram  is  equal  to  15.4323  grainSs 
the  ktlo  to  2.2046  lb.  avoirdupois,  and  the  tonne  to 
2204.6  lb.  avoirdupois.  Tonne  is  rarely  used,  the 
number  of  kilos  being  preferable. 

The  weight  of  one  cubic  cetititneter  of  pure 
water  at  its  greatest  density  (39.2°  Fahrenheit)  is  a 
gram  ;  the  weight  of  a  cubic  decimeter,  or  a  liter, 
o{  water  at  the  same  temperature  is  a  kilogram,  or 
a  kilo,  and  the  weight  of  a  cubic  meter  of  water  is 
a  tonne. 


150 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


37 


The  origioal  5-cent  nickel  weighs  5  grams,  and 
rs  2  centimeters  in  diameter. 

Equivalents. 

Metre  =  39-37  inches  (3X  ft.  nearly). 

Kilometre       =  .62138  mile  (j^  nearly). 
Square  metre  =■  1.196  square  yards  (i  1-5  nearly). 
Cubic  metre    =  1.308  cubic  yards  (i  1-3  nearly). 
I,itre  =  I  cu.  dm. 

=  1.0567  liquid  quarts  (i  nearly). 

=  .908  dry  quart  (.9  nearly). 
Kilogram         =  The  weight  of  i  cu.  dm.  of  water 
at  29. 2  Fah. 

=  2.2046  pounds  av.  (2  1-5  nearly). 
Hektare  =  10,000  sq.  m. 

=  2.471  acres  (2^  nearly). 
Stere  =  i  cu.  m. 

=  .2759  cord  (3- 1 1  nearly). 


Miscellaneous  Tables. 

Linear  Measures. 

3  barley-corns,  or  sizes  =  i  inch.      Used  by  shoe- 
makers. 
r  Used  to  measure 
'■      the  height  of 
horses  at  the 
l_     shoulder. 
21.888  inches  =  i  sacred  cubit. 

{Used  to  meas- 
ure depths 
at  sea. 
3  feet  =  I  pace. 


4  inches 


=  I  hand.  \ 


1.152%  common  miles  =  i  geog.  mi. 

3  geographic  miles        =  i  league. 
Book  Measure. 

The  book  is 


Used  to 
m  easure 
distances 
at  sea. 


A  sheet 
folded  into 
2  leaves 

4  " 

8  " 

12  " 

16  " 

18  " 


a  folio, 

a  quarto  or  4to, 

an  octavo  or  8vo,  16 

a  duodecimo  or  i2mo,  24 

a  i6mo,  32 

an  i8mo,  36 


A  sheet  of 
paper  makes 
4  PP-  (pages) 


The  weight  of  a  bushel  of  certain  articles  is  as 
follows : 


Barley,  .  .  . 
Beans,  .  .  . 
Buckwheat, 
Bran,  .  .  . 
Com,  .  .  . 
Com  meal,  . 
Corn  in  ear, 
Clover  seed, 
Flax  seed,    . 


,  48  lb. 

,  60  " 

,42  " 

,  20  " 

56  " 

50  •' 

68  " 

60  " 

56  " 


Hemp  seed,  ...  44  lb. 

Oats, 32  " 

Onions, 60  " 

Peas 60  " 

Potatoes 60  " 

Rye, 56  " 

Salt, 56  " 

Timothy  seed,      .  45  " 
Wheat, 60  " 


Miscellaneous  Weights  and  Measures. 

100  lb.  of  grain  or  flour  r:^  i  cental. 

100     "      dry  fish  —  I  quintal. 


100  lb.  of  nails 

196      "      flour 

200     "      beef  or  pork 

240     "      lime 

280     "      saltatN.  Y. 

Keg  powder. 

Stone  of  lead  or  iron 

Pig 


=  I  keg. 

=  I  barrel. 

=  I  barrel. 

=  I  cask. 
Salt  Works  =  i  barrel. 

=  25  pounds. 

=  14  pounds. 

=  '2.1%  stone. 
Anthracite  coal,  broken,  cubic   foot  averages 
54  lbs. 

A  ton,  loose,  occupies  40  to  43  cubic  feet. 
Bituminous  coal,  broken,  cub.  ft.  averages  49 


lbs. 


A  ton,  loose,  occupies  40  to  43  ft. 
Cement  (Hy.)  Rosendale,  Bush.  ^=  70  lbs. 


"           "       lyouisville, 

"      =-62  " 

"          "       Portland, 

"      =96" 

Gypsum,  ground, 

"      =70  '« 

Ivime,  loose, 

"      =70  '« 

"       well  shaken, 

"      =80  " 

Sand  at  98  lbs.  per  cu.  ft. 

"   =-I22>^  «' 

18.29  bush.  =  ton          I.] 

81  ton  =  cu.  yd 

A  cable's  length  = 

240  yards. 

20  articles             = 

I  score. 

12  dozen               = 

I  gross. 

12  gross                 =■ 

I  great  gross. 

A  cord  of  wood  = 

128  cubic  feet. 

I  hand                   =^ 

4  inches. 

I  span                    = 

9  inches. 

Shoemaker's  Measure. 

No.  I,  of  small  size  is  4^  inches  long. 
No.  I,  of  large  size  is  8  11-24  inches  long. 
Each  succeeding  number  of  either  size  is  Yj,  of 
an  inch  additional  length. 

60  pairs  of  shoes  =  i  case. 

An  American  Car  Load 

Of  20,000  lbs.  would  contain  the  following  articles  : 
70  bbl.  salt.     70  of  lime.     90  of  flour.     70  of 

whiskey.     200  sacks  of  flour.     6  cords  of  soft  wood. 

15  to  20  head  of  cattle.     50  to  60  head  of  hogs.     80 

to  100  head  of  sheep.     6000  feet  of  solid  boards. 

340  bush,  of  wheat.    400  of  corn.    680  of  oats.    400 

of  barley.     360  of  flaxseed.     360  of  apples.     430  of 

Irish  potatoes.    300  of  sweet  potatoes.    100  of  bran. 

130  to  190  barrels  of  eggs.     15,000  to  26,000  lbs.  of 

butter.     200  kegs  of  nails. 

On  roads,  with   track  in  best  condition,  a  car 

load  is  from  24,000  to  60,000  lbs. 


151 


231 

268 

277. 

2150. 

2216. 

2747. 

1000 

8i- 

5760 

7000 

24. 

36 


niscellaneous  Equivalents. 

cu.  in.      =  I  gal.  liquid  measure. 
4-5    "  =1  gal.  dry  measure. 

274  "  =1  imperial  gal.  of  Great  Britain. 

42     "  r=  I  bushel  of  U.  S. 

192  "  =1      "        "  Great  Britain. 

7       "  =1  heaped  bushel. 

oz.  or  diYz  lb.  =  I  cu.  ft.  of  pure  water. 
-3  lb.  pure  water  =  i  gallon. 

grains  =  i  lb.  Troy  or  apothecaries'. 

"  =  I  "  avoirdupois. 

75  cu.  ft.  =  I  perch  of  masonry, 

to  45  cu.  ft.  ■=  I  ton  anthracite  coal. 


38 


THE  PRACTICAL  MECHANIC 


Bible  Weights  and   fleasures. 


A  day's  journey 

=r 

11  1-5  U.  S.  miles. 

A  Sabbath-day's jouruey 

r=- 

I             "      mile 

Ezekiel's  reed 

= 

II  feet  nearly. 

Cubit — Hebrew 

= 

22  inches,  nearly. 

Greek 

= 

i8         "      about. 

A  finger's  breadth 

=r 

I  inch,           " 

A  shekel  of  silver 

= 

62^  cents. 

A       "           gold 

= 

$8.09. 

A  talent  of  silver 

= 

11,518.32. 

gold 

= 

$23,309. 

A  piece  of  silver 

== 

13  cents. 

A  farthing 

-= 

3     " 

A  gerah 

— 

■xYz  " 

A  mite 

= 

\)A  mills. 

A  homer  (as  dry  measure 

= 

II  1-9  bushels. 

A        "      (  "  liquid     "     ) 

— 

70  gallons  and  5  pints 

An  ephah  or  bath 

= 

7         "       "    4      " 

A  bin 

r^ 

I  gallon    "    2     " 

A  firkin 

= 

7     " 

An  omer 

= 

6     " 

A  cab 

= 

3     " 

A  log 

= 

%   " 

Capacity  of  Cylindrical  Cisterns. 

The  following  table  shows  the  capacity  in  gal- 
lons for  one  foot  in  depth  of  cylindrical  cisterns  of 
any  dimensions.  Find  the  diameter  of  any  given 
cistern  and  multiply  the  number  of  gallons  for  one 
foot  by  the  depth  of  the  cistern,  and  you  will  have 
its  volume  in  gallons  : 


Diameter. 

Gallons. 

Diameter. 

Gallons. 

2      feet 

19 

6>^  feet 

206 

2^  feet 

30 

7      feet 

239 

3      feet 

44 

8      feet 

313 

4      feet 

78 

9     feet 

396 

4>^  feet 

99 

10      feet 

489 

5      feet 

122 

1 1      feet 

592 

6      feet 

176 

12      feet 

705 

Mensuration  ;  or,  Useful  Rules  for  Computing 
Measurements. 

Area  of  a  triangle  =  base  X  K  altitude. 

Area  of  a  parallelogram,  multiply  base  by  altitude. 

Area  of  a  trape- j  altitude  X  K  the  sum  of  par- 

zoid  \  allel  sides. 

Area  of  a  trape- f  divide  into  two  triangles  and 

zium  \  find  area  of  the  triangles. 

Circumference       |    •,-         ,      .  . 

of  circle  =  I  diameter  X  3-1416. 

Diameter  of  cir-       f     .         ^  s.,       ^ 

cle  =  \  cicumference  X  •3183- 


Area  of  circle 


=  { 


Area  of  circular 
ring 

Side  of   square 
that  shall 
equal  area 
of  circle 

Diameter  of  cir- 
cle  that  shall 
contain  area    = 
of  a  given 
square 


square  of  the  diameter  mul- 
tiplied by  .7854. 
diameters  of  the  two  circles 
X  difference  of  diameter  and 
that  product  by  .7854. 

diameter  X    8812  or  circum- 
ference X  .2821. 


side  of  square  X  1.1284. 


Surface  of  cylin- f 

der  or  prism         \ 

Coutents  of  cyl-  i 
inder  or  ^=  \ 

prism 

Surface  of  

sphere 

Contents  of  sphere 

Contents  of  py- r 

ramid  or  cone^'   \ 

Surface  of  frus- 
tum of  cone    =^ 
or  pyramid 

Contents  of  frus-  | 
trum  of  cone=  -j 
or  pyramid  I 

Contents  of  a      f 

wedge  ~  \ 


area  of  both  ends  -|-  length 
X  circumference. 

\   area  of  end  X  length. 

\  diameter  X  circumference. 

=^  diameter.3   X  -5236. 

area  of  base  X  Yi  altitude. 

sum  of  circumference  at  both 
ends  X  slant  height  -}-  area 
of  both  ends. 

multiply  areas  of  two  ends 
together  and  extract  square 
root.  Add  to  this  root  the 
two  areas  and  X  Yi  altitude. 

area  of  base  X  X  altitude. 


152 


Lumber  and  its  Measurement. 

A  board  foot  is  i  foot  long,  i  foot  wide,  and  i 
inch  thick,  and  is  used  as  the  unit  of  measurement. 

What  is  called  scantling  lumber  is  3  or  4 
inches  wide,  and  from  2  to  4  inches  thick.  Joist 
is  usually  narrow  and  deep.  When  lumber  is 
heavier  than  joist  or  scantling  it  is  called  timber. 
Thick  boards  are  called  planks.  The  usual  out- 
side covering  of  wooden  houses  is  siding. 

If  lumber  is  less  than  i  inch  in  thickness  it  is 
considered  as  inch  in  computing  the  measure- 
ment. But  a  fraction  greater  than  a  half-inch  is 
called  an  inch,  and  if  less  than  a  half  it  is  rejected. 
A  board  45-6  inches  wide  would  be  considered  as 
5  inches. 

A  board  16  feet  long,  12  inches  wide,  and  i 
inch  thick  would  contain  (16  X  12  X  ^)-'-  ^2,  or 
16  feet.  A  board  12  feet  long,  14  inches  wide,  and 
3  inches  thick,  would  contain  (12  X  I4  X  3)  -:-  12, 
or  42  feet,  board  measure. 

To  find  the  number  of  board  feet  in  any  pile  of 
lumber  :  Multiply  the  length  in  feet  by  breadth  in 
feet  and  by  thickness  in  inches,  and  the  result  by 
number  of  boards. 

To  Compute  Volume  of  Square  Timber. 

When  all  the  dimensions  are  in  feet  : 
Rule.     Multiply  the  breadth  by  the  depth  and 
that  pioduct  by  the  length,  and  the  product  will 
give  the  volume  in  cubic  feet. 

When  either  of  the  dimensiotts  are  in  inches  : 
Rule.     Multiply  the  length,  breadth  and  depth 
and  divide  by  12. 

When  any  two  of  the  diinensions  are  in  inches: 
Rule.     Multiply  the  length,  breadth  and  depth 
and  divide  by  144. 

To  Measure  Round  Timber  take  the  girth  in 
inches  at  both  the  large  and  small  ends,  add  them, 
divide  by  two,  which  gives  the  mean  girth ;  then 
multiply  the  length  in  feet  by  the  square  of  one- 
fourth  of  the  mean  girth,  and  the  quotient  will  be 
the  contents  in  cubic  feet.  This  rule  is  commonly 
adopted,  and  gives  four-fifths  of  the  true  contents, 
one-fifth  being  allowed  to  the  purchaser  for  waste 
in  sawing. 


^ 

^-4. 

^3:: 

o 

o 

^ 

•^b- 

s 

^i■ 

§ 

s^ 

t/> 

j^- 

^ 

o 

2 

^ 


s- 


^ 

^ 

^ 

e 

o 

> 

S. 

"^ 

W 

v" 

^ir 

f 

0^5 

a 
S- 

Kj 

^ 

Q 

<^ 

w 

e 

§ 

> 

s 

s- 

O 

Cl, 

W 

o- 

rl 

^ 

% 

V 

o 

»A. 

i 

§ 

•;s-, 

o 

H 

^ 

r< 

y^ 

c^ 

•^ 

o 

ca 

ve 


^ 


Pi- 


BOOK  IV. 

BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 

Every  one  has  a  smile  and  a  helping  hand  for  the  courteous  man  or 
woman,  while  the  rude  person,  even  if  mistaken  through  ignorance,  offends 
everybody.  Ordinary  politeness  is  so  much  governed  by  custom  that  it  is 
easy  for  anyone  to  learn  and  use  in  every-day  life ;  and  all  these  rules  are 
given  in  this  book  sensibly  as  practised  by  the  best  society.  The  etiquette  of 
conversation,  parties  of  all  kinds,  visiting,  receiving  guests,  weddings,  funerals, 
and  all  private  and  public  occasions,  is  made  clear  and  easy  to  follow  with 
confidence.  There  are  also  valuable  instructions  in  the  art  of  letter-writing, 
and  what  to  wear  on  all  occasions. 


Book  of  Etiquette 

WHAT  TO  DO— WHAT  TO  WEAR— WHAT  TO  SAY— WHAT  TO  WRITE- 
THE  CORRECT  THING  AT  HOME— AT  PARTIES— AT  WEDDINGS 
—AT  ALL  PUBLIC  AND  PRIVATE  FUNCTIONS 


GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  OF  GOOD  MANNERS 


Good  manners  stand  next  to  a  good 
heart  in  adapting  men  and  women  to  the 
community  in  which  they  live.  Indeed,  so 
far  as  the  opinion  of  ordinary  society  rules, 
they  go  further,  for  however  gifted  by 
nature  or  education  one  may  be,  or  however 
well-intentioned  and  virtuous  in  conduct,  if 
he  is  ignorant  of  the  customs  and  require- 
ments of  good  society,  is  awkward  or  un- 
graceful in  manner,  careless  in  speech,  and 
heedless  of  social  demands,  and  even  of  the 
arbitrary  dictates  of  fashion,  he  risks  expos- 
ing himself  to  ridicule,  and  may  be  neglected 
Dr  contemned,  while  men  far  below  him  in 
character  and  ability,  but  with  superior 
'^.nowledge  of  correct  social  deportment, 
flay  become  the  admired  favorites  of  the 
vorld.  In  short,  it  may  be  said  that  success 
n  life  often  depends  far  more  oi\  appearance 
and  deportment  than  on  innate  character. 

According  to  Swift,  good  manners  are 
the  art  of  making  those  people  v/ith  whom 
we  converse  feel  at  ease.  This  is  doubtless 
true  so  far  as  conversation  is  concerned. 
Persons  of  generous  impulses  naturally  seek 
to  render  themselves  agreeable  to  those  into 
whose  company  they  come,  and  are  no  more 
eager  to  gain  enjoyment  for  themselves  than 
to  bestow  pleasure  upon  others.  The  art  ot 
pleasing  is,  in  truth,  a  simple  one,  but  fre- 
quently its  cultivation  is  too  much  neglected. 
Many  persons  become  so  solicitous  for  the 
promotion  of  their  own  pleasure  as  to  forget 
that  their  neighbors  have  claims  upon  them. 


Yet  every  man  who  enters  society  should 
bear  in  mind  that,  in  a  sense,  he  ceases  to 
be  an  individual,  and  becomes  part  of  an 
association,  a  social  organism,  as  it  has  been 
called  ;  met  together,  not  for  any  one's  per- 
sonal gratification,  but  for  the  pleasure  of 
the  whole  company. 

The  first  requisite  in  our  intercourse  with 
the  world,  and  the  chief  in  giving  pleasure 
to  our  associates,  is  sincerity  of  heart,  a 
quality  which  lends  the  same  ornament  to 
character  which  modesty  does  to  manners. 
A  second  important  element  of  social  be- 
havior is  lack  of  self-assertion,  a  modesty 
of  manner,  native  or  acquired,  which  is  in 
no  sense  inconsistent  with  firmness  and  dig- 
nity of  character.  The  well-bred  man  feels 
at  ease  in  all  companies,  is  modest  without 
appearing  bashful,  and  self-possessed  with- 
out an  undue  forwardness  of  manner. 

The  Art  of  Conversation. 

To  one  who  would  make  his  way  in  the 
society  of  intelligent  people,  a  well  selected 
fund  of  information  and  anecdote  is  a  highly 
important  prerequisite.  An  enlightened 
understanding  and  a  store  of  interesting 
knowledge  are  essential  to  him  who  would 
shine  in  conversation.  None  can  hope  to 
make  small  talk  go  far  with  people  of  cul- 
ture, and  all  who  wish  to  win  credit  in  social 
circles  will  need  something  deeper  and  more 
enduring  than  chat  on  passing  trifles  and 
local  events. 


155 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


The  faculty  of  communicating  thought 
is,  in  a  great  measure,  peculiar  to  man,  and 
the  pleasure  which  he  derives  from  the  in- 
terchange of  ideas  is  one  of  his  leading  ele- 
ments of  enjoyment.  There  is  nothing  more 
agreeable  to  most  persons  than  pleasant, 
sprightly,  fluent  conversation,  spiced  with 
anecdote,  and  seasoned  with  the  results  of 
good  reading,  and  we  are  all  happily  consti- 
tuted to  take  delight  in  the  mutual  inter- 
change of  thoughts. 

The  best  rule  of  conversation  undoubt- 
edly is,  to  "adapt  yourself  to  your  com- 
pany." Thus  commercial  men  enjoy  con- 
versation on  subjects  having  some  relation 
to  affairs  of  business ;  men  of  pleasure, 
whose  thoughts  are  given  only  to  entertain- 
ment, prefer  light  talk  on  pastimes  or  social 
events  ;  and  professional  men  love  to  dwell 
on  new  books,  the  discoveries  of  scientists, 
the  latest  doings  in  the  arts,  and  similar 
learned  subjects. 

Attention  to  these  suggestions  will  be  of 
use  in  helping  men  of  learning  and  men 
of  pleasure  alike  to  derive  mutual  advantage 
from  their  different  qualifications,  and  we 
need  but  say  further  that  those  who  wish  to 
please  should  be  well  informed  on  subjects 
of  most  general  interest,  whether  this  interest 
be  of  temporary  or  permanent  character. 
An  accurate  and  extensive  knowledge  on 
learned  subjects  is  far  from  being  sufficient 
for  conversational  needs,  and  may  lead  to 
prosy  and  wearisome  talk  in  the  opinion  of 
less  erudite  people ;  one  must  also  have  a 
ready  knowledge  of  the  common  occurrences 
of  life,  and  of  important  events  which  are 
arising  day  after  day,  must  know  something 
of  the  fine  art  of  chatting,  and  how  to  spice 
heavy  subjects  with  anecdote  and  illustra- 
tion. The  art  of  conversation  is  a  difficult 
one  to  acquire,  and  fine  conversers  must  be 
born  wnth  a  native  faculty  in  that  direction. 

Avoid  Heated  Argument. 

Speech  is  so  vital  an  element  of  social 
intercourse  that  too  much  attention  cannot 
be  given  to  its  requisites,  or  too  much  study 
to  its  cultivation. 

In  conversation  it  is  of  high  importance 
to  avoid  heated  argument.  Difference  of 
opinion  is  likely  to  arise  very  frequently, 
but  one  should   always  express  his  views 


calmly  and  gently,  and  avoid  all  eager  or 
loud  assertion.  It  is  not  so  important  that 
you  should  force  your  auditors  to  accept 
your  special  views.  If  your  antagonist 
begins  to  grow  warm,  you  should  at  once 
put  an  end  to  the  argument  by  a  quiet  turn- 
ing of  the  conversation.  Disputes  severely 
try  the  temper  of  many  men,  and  are  likely 
to  end  in  the  mortification  of  one  disputant, 
generally  with  no  advantage  to  the  victor. 
They  should,  therefore,  be  avoided. 

Yet  no  one  is  called  upon,  for  the  sake 
of  avoiding  argument,  to  give  a  general 
assent  to  all  that  is  said  in  company.  As- 
sent without  conviction  indicates  a  mean 
and  subservient  spirit,  and  may  tend  to  con- 
firm others  in  wrong  opinions.  Yet  it  is 
wise  to  oppose  calmly  and  correct  with 
gentleness,  and,  while  showing  that  you 
have  a  mind  of  your  own,  to  show  that  you 
respect  the  opinions  of  your  companions. 

Consider  the  Feelings  of  Others. 

Do  not  speak  in  a  loud  voice  or  assume 
a  dictatorial  tone,  and  if  a  statement  is 
made  which  you  know  to  be  incorrect,  be 
careful  of  the  manner  in  which  you  correct 
the  speaker.  Suggest  a  correction,  rather 
than  make  it ;  and  if  the  matter  is  unim- 
portant it  is  far  better  to  let  it  pass  un- 
noticed. There  is  nothing  more  unwise 
than  to  insist  on  trifles.  Those  who  go 
abroad  to  correct  the  world's  mistakes  are 
apt  to  find  themselves  very  frequently  in 
hot  water.  If  addressed  in  an  offensive 
tone,  it  is  the  part  of  wisdom  not  to  notice 
it ;  an  intention  even  to  insult  or  annoy  can 
safely  be  passed  over  for  the  time  being. 
One  should  consider  the  feelings  of  the 
other  persons  p  resent,  and  not  annoy  them 
with  personal  affairs  of  a  disagreeable 
character,  nor  permit  others  to  force  him 
into  a  quarrel  in  company.  There  is.  of 
course,  a  limit  of  insult  which  a  self-respect- 
ing man  can  not  let  pass  ;  but  to  bear  and 
forbear  is  the  part  of  good  manners.  Quar- 
rels can  be  left  to  bide  their  time,  and  there 
is  no  better  way  of  repelling  an  inuendo 
than  by  ignoring  it  or  treating  it  as  un- 
worthy of  notice.  Such  a  thing  as  a 
"scene  "  in  society  is,  above  all  things,  to 
be  avoided.  It  is  the  insulter  who  loses 
social  caste,  not  the  insulted. 
56 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


Care  in  the  Use  of   Witticisms. 

If  you  have  wit,  or  fancy  you  have, 
which  is  oftener  the  case,  it  is  well  to  use  it 
with  caution  and  judgment,  and  particularly 
to  avoid  seeking  butts  for  5'our  wit  among 
your  associates.  Wit  is  a  quality  which 
all  admire,  yet  which  most  fear,  and  which 
no  one  enjoys  being  made  the  victim  of. 
If  used  in  a  satirical  manner  it  is  often  malig- 
nant in  character,  and  any  man  possessed  of 
this  cutting  weapon  may  find  much  better 
occasioi  s  for  its  use  than  against  the  self- 
love  or  the  foibles  of  his  acquaintances.  A 
wise  man,  indeed,  will  live  as  much  within 
his  wit  as  within  his  income,  and  it  is  far 
better  to  be  content  with  good  sense  and 
reason,  which  can  never  hurt,  than  with 
this  shining  but  cutting  plaything  of  wit. 
However  you  may  be  admired  for  your 
sharpness  of  repartee,  it  is  still  true  that 
respect  and  affection  can  be  won  only  by 
good  sense  and  amiable  consideration  of  the 
feelings  of  others. 

There  is  a  species  of  minor  wit,  that 
known  as  raillery,  which  is  much  used,  and 
much  abused.  It  is  a  dangerous  and  mis- 
chievous weapon  in  unskilful  hands,  and 
had  better  be  left  entirely  alone.  In  truth, 
the  injustice  of  a  bad  man  is  often  more 
quickly  forgiven  than  the  insults  of  a  witty 
one.  The  former  injures  us  in  property  ; 
the  latter  hurts  us  in  soul,  mortifying  that 
secret  pride  which  we  all  possess.  Raillery, 
indeed,  is  not  always  offensive  ;  it  may  even 
be  used  to  flatter,  as  when  we  accuse  one  of 
faults  which  they  are  notoriously  free  from. 
But  this  sort  of  raillery  needs  a  skilled  hand 
to  manage,  and  had  better  be  left  quite 
alone  if  it  cannot  be  handled  judiciously. 

AH  can  be  Agreeable. 

It  is  not  given  to  every  man  to  be  a 
brilliant  talker,  or  to  express  himself  in 
writing  with  elegance  or  force.  Both  of 
these  are  gifts  of  the  few,  not  possessions  of 
the  many.  There  is,  however,  no  reason 
why  any  person  who  goes  into  society 
should  be  ignorant  of  the  rules  of  polite  in- 
tercourse, Oi  fail  to  master  all  the  customary 
forms  of  address. 

It  is  almost  useless  to  repeat  that  your 
conversation  should  be  adapted  to  your 
company,  for  that  is  a  golden  rule  which 


one  should  know  almost  by  intuition.  In 
mixed  groups  one  should  sedulously  avoid 
all  such  mooted  points  as  politics  and  reli- 
gion, and  every  topic  likely  to  excite  argu- 
ment or  lead  to  heated  discussion. 

You  cannot  be  too  careful  in  avoiding, 
in  mixed  assemblages,  subjects  which  may 
prove  to  point  directly  to  some  persons 
present.  For  instance,  do  not  speak  of  the 
laxity  of  the  divorce  laws  when  Mr.  M.  or 
Mrs.  N.  may,  unknown  to  you,  have  passed 
through  the  divorce  court.  And  do  not 
express  yourself  strongly  against  second 
marriages,  when  there  may,  perhaps,  be  one 
or  two  examples  among  your  listeners  If 
a  sudden  silence,  with  perhaps  a  conscious 
look,  follows  your  words,  you  had  better 
change  the  subject  as  quickly  as  possible, 
and  be  glad  that  you  have  escaped  from  a 
hornets'  nest  without  a  sting. 

Avoid  Referring  to  Your  Own  Exploits. 

Talk  of  yourself  and  your  own  affairs  as 
little  as  possible,  and  bear  in  mind  that  to 
drag  into  a  general  conversation  the  names  of 
distinguished  persons  to  whom  you  may  be 
related,  or  who  may  be  numbered  among 
your  friends,  is  more  apt  to  excite  contempt 
than  to  yield  admiration.  To  speak  of  j'our 
own  exploits,  or  give  examples  of  your 
special  prowess  and  sagacity,  without  re- 
quest of  the  company,  is  always  in  bad 
taste,  and  is  more  likely  to  gain  you  credit 
for  self-conceit  than  for  the  qualities  boasted 
of.  Leave  matters  of  this  kind  for  people 
to  find  out  and  you  v/ill  gain  more  credit. 

Above  all,  avoid  any  effort  to  monopo- 
lize the  conversation.  It  is  presumptuous 
and  offensive  in  any  person  to  imagine  that 
his  or  her  words  alone  are  of  interest,  and 
impolite  to  rob  others  of  the  opportunity  to 
speak.  This  is  a  common  fault  in  fluent 
talkers,  who  are,  besides,  often  so  interested 
in  what  they  wish  to  say  as  to  be  plainly 
inattentive  to  what  others  are  saying. 

Personal  allusions  or  flattering  remarks 
are  often  in  very  bad  taste.  Words  spoken 
in  jest  may  be  taken  in  earnest,  and  should  be 
guarded  against  unless  you  are  with  intimate 
friends,  who  will  not  be  likely  to  put  a  false 
construction  on  your  words.  If  you  intend 
a  jest,  you  are  wasting  j^our  effort  if  your 
point  cannot  be  seen. 


157 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


Puns  and  slang  terms  should,  as  a  rule, 
be  avoided.  They  at  times  fit  in  neatly,  but 
a  habit  of  indulging  in  them  is  a  bad  one. 
It  must  be  remembered  that  there  is  a  slang 
of  the  mansion  as  well  as  of  the  hovel,  of 
the  drawing-room  as  of  the  street.  The 
technical  terms  of  professions  or  trades  have 
occasionally  the  effect  of  slang  in  general 
society,  and  simple,  plain  language  should 
always  be  used  in  preference.  It  is  not  al- 
ways advisable  to  bring  the  phrases  of  the 
office  or  the  factory  into  social  circles. 

Express  yourself  simply  and  clearly. 
Avoid  all  attempts  at  elegance  or  pompos- 
ity. Use  the  easiest  and  plainest  language 
you  can,  and  stop  speaking  when  you  have 
said  what  you  desired.  "  Brevity  is  the 
soul  of  wit,"  therefore  "speak  little,  but 
speak  well,  if  you  would  be  thought  a  per- 
son of  good  sense." 

Other  Rules  Worth  Observing. 

Should  a  person  enter  the  room  in  which 
you  are  conversing,  and  the  conversation  be 
continued  after  his  arrival,  it  is  only  courte- 
ous to  acquaint  him  with  the  nature  of  the 
subject  to  which  it  relates,  and  to  give  him 
an  idea  of  what  has  passed. 

Be  cautious  in  relating  anecdotes.  Un- 
less you  can  tell  a  story  with  ease  and 
effect,  it  is  better  not  to  attempt  it,  and, 
above  all,  do  not  mimic  the  peculiarities, 
infirmities,  or  short-comings  of  others  in 
general  society.  You  may  give  offense  to 
some  one  present  who  is  a  friend  of  the  per- 
son caricatured,  and  in  any  case  such  a  pro- 
ceeding is  not  commendable. 

Do  not  speak  of  what  passes  in  a  house 
that  you  are  visiting.  To  do  so  may  often 
give  great  offence. 

You  need  not  tell  all  the  truth  unless  to 
those  who  have  a  right  to  know  it  all.  But 
let  all  you  tell  be  the  truth. 

Do  not  offer  advice  unless  you  know  it 
will  be  followed,  and  carefully  beware  how 
you  advise  an  angry  or  an  opinionated  person. 
As  a  rule,  advice  not  asked  is  not  welcomed. 

Be  cautious  as  to  asking  questions.  The 
reply  may  be  very  embarrassing  to  the  per- 
son of  whom  the  question  is  asked. 

Do  not  volunteer  information,  especially 
in  public  ;  but  be  very  sure  you  are  correct 
in  what  you  state  as  facts.  i 

15 


Do  not  sit  dumb  in  company,  but  bear 
your  share  in  the  general  conversation.  Do 
this  with  modesty  and  self-possession,  neither 
thrusting  yourself  forward,  nor  hesitating 
where  you  should  speak.  It  is  better  to  be 
a  good  listener  than  a  good  talker,  yet  it  is 
a  duty  to  take  your  part  in  entertaining. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  express  j^our  opin- 
ions upon  all  subjects  ;  but  if  you  give 
utterance  to  them,  do  so  fearlessly,  frankly, 
and  with  courteous  regard  for  the  opinions 
of  others.  The  greater  your  learning,  the 
more  modest  should  be  your  manner  of 
expressing  it. 

A  Winning  Manner. 

Another  important  element  of  social  de- 
portment is  a  graceful  and  easy  bearing,  and 
that  softness  and  amiability  of  manner  which 
is  so  engaging  in  our  intercourse  with  the 
world.  Such  a  manner  is  more  easily  felt 
than  described .  It  is  a  compound  of  several 
elements  of  character  and  conduct ;  not  a 
servility  of  demeanor,  but  an  affability  and 
courtesy  in  speech  and  expression  ;  and  this, 
whether  or  not  you  agree  with  the  person  or 
persons  with  whom  you  are  conversing. 

This  should  be  particularly  considered 
when  we  are  obliged  to  refuse  a  favor  asked 
of  us,  or  to  say  what  cannot  be  very  agree- 
able to  the  person  to  whom  we  say  it.  If 
we  have  a  bitter  pill  to  administer,  we  should 
at  least  seek  to  sweeten  it  with  courtesy  and 
kindness.  Yet  this  softness  of  manner  will 
sink  into  a  mean  and  timid  complaisance, 
or  insincere  affectation,  if  not  supported 
by  firmness  and  dignity  of  character;  and 
one  should,  while  cultivating  courtesy,  be 
careful  to  avoid  insincerity  or  fear  of  truth- 
ful expression.  To  be  winning  at  the 
expense  of  truth  and  honesty  is  to  convert  a 
virtue  into  a  fault. 

Genuine  easy  manners  result  from  a  con- 
stant attention  to  the  relation  of  persons  and 
things,  times  and  places.  When  we  con- 
verse with  one  much  superior  to  us  in 
station  or  in  the  world's  appreciation ,  we 
should  seek  to  be  as  easy  and  unembarressed 
as  with  our  equals,  avoiding  sedulously  any 
show  of  servility  or  flattery,  yet  indicating 
in  word,  look  and  action,  the  greatest 
respect.  In  the  society  of  our  equals  greater 
ease  and  liberty  are  allowable ;  but  they,  too, 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


have  their  proper  limitations.  There  is 
a  social  respect  in  everj'^  case  necessary,  and 
though  our  language  may  have  a  greater 
degree  of  latitude  among  friends  and  equals, 
its  freedom  should  never  be  unbounded.  It 
is  always  safer  to  say  too  little  than  too  much . 
An  engaging  ease  of  carriage  and  behavior 
widely  differs  from  negligence  and  inatten- 
tion, and  by  no  means  implies  that  one  is 
justified  in  consulting  only  his  own  pleasure 
in  society  ;  it  only  means  that  he  should  not 
be  formal  or  embarrassed,  disconcerted  or 
diflSdent.  It  need  only  be  said  that  the 
thing  it  is  correct  to  do  should  be  done  with 
ease  and  ability  ;  the  improper  thing  should 
not  be  done  at  all. 

In  mixed  companies  difierent  ages  and 
sexes  should  be  differently  addressed.  Al- 
though it  is  our  duty  to  be  respectful  to  all ; 
old  age  particularly  requires  to  be  treated 
with  a  degree  of  deference  and  regard.  It 
is  a  good  general  rule  to  accustom  ourselves 
to  have  a  kindly  feeling  towards  every  thing 
connected  with  our  fellows,  and  when  this 
is  the  case,  we  shall  seldom  err  in  the  appli- 
cation. The  inward  feeling  will  appear  in 
the  outward  conduct. 

Principles  of  Politeness. 

Another  important  point  in  decorum  is, 
not  to  force  upon  others  our  own  present 
humor  or  passing  sentiment,  but  to  observe 
and  adopt  theirs.  If  for  the  moment  we  are 
impressed  with  some  strong  feeling  or  in  a 
humor  out  of  tone  with  that  of  the  com- 
pany, we  should  either  restrain  ourselves, 
keep  silent,  or  confine  our  conversation  to 
those  who  are  most  likely  to  be  in  sympathy 
with  our  frame  of  mind.  Peremptoriness 
and  conceit,  especially  in  young  people,  is 
contrary  to  good  breeding :  they  should 
seldom  seem  to  dissent,  and  always  use 
some  softening  mitigating  expression. 

There  is  a  decorum  also  with  regard  to 
people  of  the  lowest  degree ;  a  gentleman 
observes  it  with  his  coachman,  and  even 
indeed  with  the  beggar  in  the  street.  He 
considers  them  as  objects  of  compassion,  not 
of  insult ;  he  speaks  to  neither  in  a  harsh 
tone,  but  corrects  the  one  gently,  and  re- 
fuses the  other  with  humanity. 

Politeness  is  one  of  those  social  virtues 
which  we  never  estimate  rightly  but  from 


the  inconvenience  of  its  loss.  Though  per- 
haps not  distinctly  perceived  when  present, 
its  absence  is  strongly  indicated.  The  dif- 
ference between  a  polite  person  and  one  who 
is  impolite  is  very  marked,  yet  those  who  do 
not  possess  good  breeding  rarely  understand 
its  importance  and  worth.  But  as  sickness 
shows  us  the  value  of  health,  so  a  little 
familiarity  with  those  who  do  not  trouble 
themselves  to  contribute  to  the  gratification 
of  others,  but  regulate  their  behavior  merely 
by  their  own  will,  will  soon  make  evident  the 
necessity  of  established  modes  and  formali- 
ties to  the  happiness  and  quiet  of  common 
life. 

Wisdom  and  virtue  are  by  no  means  suf- 
ficient, without  the  supplemental  laws  of 
good  breeding,  to  secure  freedom  of  manners 
from  degenerating  into  rudeness,  or  prevent 
self-esteem  from  developing  into  insolence. 
Incivility  and  neglect  of  proper  social  ob- 
servances do  not  necessarily  yield  remorse 
of  conscience  or  reproach  from  reason  in 
those  who  have  not  been  taught  to  consider 
the  feelings  of  others  as  well  as  their  own. 
Yet  genuine  politeness  always  gives  ease 
and  pleasure,  while  its  opposite  is  likely  to 
impart  pain  or  disgust.  The  power  of 
pleasing  must  in  great  part  be  conferred  by 
nature,  though  in  a  considerable  measure  it 
may  be  cultivated.  But  though  it  be  the 
privilege  of  the  few  to  charm  and  shine  in 
society,  yet  all  may  hope,  by  the  cultivation 
of  good  breeding  and  polite  manners,  to 
make  themselves  agreeable  to  their  asso- 
ciates, though  they  should  have  no  claim  to 
higher  distinction. 

The  axiom  from  which  flows  all  the  for- 
malities of  cultivated  society  is  :  "  Let  no 
man  give  preference  to  himself."  This  is  a 
comprehensive  rule,  and  it  is  difficult  to 
imagine  an  incivility  unless  it  is  in  some 
measure  broken. 

Good  Breeding. 

Yet  there  are  everywhere  particular  cere- 
monial requisites  of  good  breeding,  often  of 
local  application,  which,  being  arbitrary  or 
accidental,  can  be  learned  only  by  residence 
and  observation.  Among  these  are  forms  of 
salutation,  gradations  of  reverence,  and 
various  rules  of  place  and  precedence.  Yef 
these  may  be  violated  without  giving  offence 


159 


8 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


by  one  who  is  evidently  a  stranger  to  them, 
and  when  it  is  apparent  that  neither  malice 
nor  pi  ide  had  a  share  in  their  non-observ- 
ance. And  however  rigidly  these  and  othtr 
rules  of  behavior  be  observed,  they  can 
never  condone  insolence  or  selfishness. 
True  courtesy  is  that  which  flows  from  the 
heart,  not  that  which  is  worn  only  on  the 
surface. 

Real  good  breeding  is  not  always  to  be 
found  among  those  who  spend  their  time  in 
visiting,  in  frequenting  public  entertain- 
ments, in  studying  ceremonial  rules,  and  in 
keeping  in  pace  with  the  changes  of  fash- 
ionable regulations.  Such  people  may  know 
what  fashion  demands  in  acts  of  deportment 
and  ceremony,  but  they  too  often  confine 
themselves  to  the  exterior  and  unessential 
elements  of  civility,  and  are  much  too  apt  to 
consider  their  own  gratification  as  of  more 
value  than  the  pleasure  of  others. 

The  most  certain  way  to  give  any  man 
pleasure  is  to  persuade  him  that  you  receive 
pleasure  from  him,  to  encourage  him  to 
freedom  and  confidence,  and  to  avoid  any 
such  appearance  of  superiority  as  may  over- 
bear and  depress  him.  We  see  many  who, 
by  this  art  alone,  spend  their  days  in  the 
midst  of  caresses,  invitations,  and  civilities  ; 
and,  without  any  extraordinary  qualities  or 
attainments,  are  the  universal  favorites  of 
both  sexes. 

In  assemblies  and  places  of  public  resort 
it  is  frequently  observed  that  at  the  entrance 
of  some  particular  person  every  face  bright- 
ens with  gladness,  and  every  hand  is  ex- 
tended in  salutation.  Yet,  often,  if  you 
follow  this  favorite  beyond  the  first  exchange 
of  civilities,  you  will  find  him  of  only 
ordinary  abilities,  and  welcome  to  the  com- 
pany simply  as  one  by  whom  all  conceive 
themselves  to  be  admired,  and  with  whom 
any  one  is  at  liberty  to  amuse  himself  when 
he  can  find  no  other  auditor  or  companion. 
He  can  place  all  at  ease  if  he  will  hear  a 
jest  without  criticism,  and  a  narrative  with- 
out contradiction,  laugh  at  every  wit,  and 
yield  to  every  disputer. 

All  are  at  some  hour  or  another  fond  of 
companions  whom  they  can  entertain  upon 
easy  terms,  and  who  will  relieve  them  from 
solitude,  without  requiring  them  to  guard 
their    speech  with   vigilance   and  caution. 

1 60 


We  are  most  inclined  to  love  when  we  have 
nothing  to  fear,  and  he  that  encourages  us 
to  please  ourselves,  will  not  be  long  without 
preference  in  our  affection  to  those  whose 
learning  holds  us  at  a  distance,  or  whose  wit 
calls  all  attention  from  us,  and  leaves  us 
without  importance  and  without  regard.  All 
men  dislike  to  be  placed  in  such  unpleasant 
contrast,  even  though  they  cannot  bui 
admire  the  abilities  which  they  are  incapable 
of  rivalling  or  even  unable  to  imitate. 

The  Demeanor  of  a  Lady. 

An  agreeable,  modest,  and  dignified 
bearing  is  not  only  one  of  the  most  desir- 
able requisites  of  a  young  woman,  but  her 
best  warrant  to  claim  the  title  of  lady. 
Whatever  may  be  the  transient  demand  of 
fashion ,  whatever  the  passing  rule  of  custom , 
that  which  is  amiable,  graceful  and  true  in 
taste  will  always  please  the  majority  of  man- 
kind. A  young  lady,  if  she  have  any  true 
claim  to  the  title,  should  not  require  to  have 
allowances  made  for  her.  If  properly 
trained,  and  blessed  with  a  just  conception 
of  social  requisites,  her  address  will  be 
gentle  and  polite,  her  manner  courteous,  and 
she  will  need  but  an  opportunity  for  observ- 
ation to  gain  tho.'^e  minor  graces  and  habits 
which  the  local  customs  of  society  may 
demand.  The  general  rules  of  social  ob- 
servance are  world-wide  in  their  application, 
and  familiarity  with  them  flows  almost 
inevitably  from  good  sense  and  a  good  dis- 
position . 

On  being  introduced  to  a  stranger,  there 
is  no  insincerity  in  the  display  of  a  degree 
of  pleasure.  The  well -trained  girl  will 
acknowledge  the  introduction  to  an  elder 
person  with  a  respectful  bow  and  a  deferen- 
tial manner.  To  one  of  her  own  age  she 
will  strive  to  make  herself  agreeable  even 
if  not  particularly  attracted  towards  the  per- 
son introduced .  It  is  the  excess  of  impolite- 
ness to  let  it  be  seen  that  she  does  not  care 
for  her  new  acquaintance,  to  look  over  her 
dress  at  once,  as  if  taking  an  inventor}^  of  it, 
to  wear  a  supercilious  manner,  or  to  appear 
hurried,  as  if  anxious  to  get  away  at  the 
first  break  in  the  conversation.  Politeness 
demands  that  she  should  show  a  degree  of 
pleasure  in  the  introduction,  and  courtesy, 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


that  she  should  avoid  any  action    likely  to 
give  pain  or  offence. 

Incivilities  to  be  Avoided. 

Such  suggesti9ns  are  hardly  necessary. 
The  instinct  of  a  true  lady  will  teach  her  to 
observe  these  basic  rules  of  courtesy.  Yet 
there  is  a  heedlessness  in  many  of  the  young, 
and  an  unacknowledged  selfishness,  which 
often  lead  to  incivilities  of  which  they  are 
themselves  unaware. 

In  conversation  volubility  is  to  be 
avoided.  The  words  should  be  gently 
spoken,  and  the  voice  loud  enough  to  be 
heard  easily,  but  still  with  a  degree  of 
repression,  an  undertone  below  the  full 
powers  of  the  voice.  Affectation  especially 
should  be  avoided.  It  was  once  in  fashion, 
but  was  always  strained  and  unnatural,  and, 
fortunately,  has  long  ceased  to  be  the  mode. 
Like  many  peculiarities  of  bygone  times, 
one  meets  with  it  now  only  in  vulgar  society. 
The  well-bred  sedulously  avoid  affected 
tricks  of  speech. 

The  manner  of  using  the  eyes  also  calls 
for  regulation.  The  open  stare  and  the 
shy  withdrawal  of  the  eyes  are  alike  to  be 
avoided.  They  should  be  raised  quietly 
and  with  interest  to  those  of  the  speaker, 
and  only  withdrawn  when  his  remarks  are 
concluded.  This,  of  course,  is  not  neces- 
sary if  he  is  speaking  to  a  number,  but  even 
then  the  eyes  should  not  indicate  inatten- 
tion, and  should  be  more  or  less  steadily 
fixed  on  the  speaker's  face. 

There  is,  in  addition,  a  certain  dignity 
of  demeanor  necessary  to  make  even  the 
most  superior  persons  respected.  This  dig- 
nity cannot  readily  be  taught ;  it  can  hardly 
be  assumed  ;  it  must  flow  in  great  measure 
from  intrinsic  qualities,  though  even  the 
finest  natural  powers  may  lose  their  in- 
fluence through  carelessness,  and  may  be 
enhanced  by  attention  and  training.  This 
dignity  is  distinct  from  pretension,  which 
yields  disgust  rather  than  respect.  A  true 
lady  will  be  equal  to  every  occasion,  and  at 
home  in  all  grades  of  society.  Her  polite- 
ness, her  equanimity,  her  presence  of  mind, 
should  be  in  evidence  alike  in  the  court  and 
in  the  cottage. 

Private  vexations  should  never  be  al- 
lowed to  affect  a  lady's  manners,  either  at 

i6 


home  or  elsewhere.  If  not  in  condition  fo'i" 
society,  she  should  refrain  from  entering  it; 
remembering  that  every  one  is  expected  and 
should  hold  herself  bound  to  add  something 
to  the  general  sum  of  enjoyment.  The  self- 
control  required  in  good  society  is  often 
beneficial  alike  to  the  temper  and  the 
spirits. 

Many  a  plain  woman  has  won  and  kept 
the  affection  of  others  merely  by  being  al- 
ways gentle  and  womanly  in  manner.  To 
gain  an  empire  over  the  affections  there 
must  be  somewhat  of  sentiment  or  sym- 
pathy in  the  nature  of  a  woman.  The  loud, 
boastful,  positive  young  lady  will  never  be 
remembered  with  a  soft  interest,  unless  there 
be,  perchance,  some  gentle  strain  in  her  that 
redeems  her  from  her  assumed  hardness. 

Flirtation. 

With  regard  to  flirtation,  it  is  difficult  to 
draw  a  limit  where  the  predilection  of  the 
moment  softens  into  a  more  tender  and 
serious  feeling,  and  flirtation  sobers  into  an 
earnest  form  of  devoted  attention. 

We  all  dread  for  our  daughters  hasty 
and  questionable  attachments  ;  but  it  must 
not  be  supposed  that  long-practiced  flirta- 
tions are  without  their  evil  effects  on  the 
character  and  manners.  They  excite  and 
amuse,  but  they  also  exhaust  the  spirit. 
They  expose  women  to  censure  and  mis- 
construction, and  tend  to  destroy  the  charm 
of  manners  and  the  simplicity  of  the  heart. 
The  coquette  should  remember  that,  with 
every  successive  flirtation,  one  charm  after 
another  disappears,  like  the  petals  from  a 
fading  rose,  until  all  the  delicioi^teness  of  a 
fresh  and  pure  character  is  lost.  On  all 
these  points  a  woman  should  take  a  high 
tone  in  the  beginning  of  her  life.  She  will 
learn,  as  time  goes  on,  how  far  she  may 
consistently  lower  it  into  an  easier  and 
more  familiar  tone  of  social  intercourse. 

The  bearing  of  married  women  should 
so  far  differ  from  that  of  the  unmarried  thai 
there  should  be  greater  quietness  and  dig- 
nity ;  a  more  close  adherence  to  forms  ; 
and  an  abandonment  of  the  admiration 
which  has  been  received  before  marriage. 
All  flirtation,  however  it  may  be  counte- 
nanced by  the  existing  custom  of  society, 
should  be  decisively  put  aside.     There  is, 


lO 


book:  of  etiquette 


however,  no  reason  that  conversation  should 
be  less  lively,  or  society  less  agreeable. 

If  a  young  married  woman  wishes  to  be 
respected,  and  therefore  happy  in  life,  there 
should  be  a  quiet  propriety  of  manner,  a 
dignity  towards  the  male  sex,  which  cannot 
be  mistaken  in  her  for  prudery,  since  it  is 
consistent  with  her  position  and  her  ties. 
She  should  change  her  tone,  if  that  has  been 
unrefined  ;  she  should  not  put  herself  on  a 
level  with  young  unmarried  women  of  her 
own  age,  but  should  influence  and  even  lead 
her  youthful  acquaintance  into  that  style  of 
behavior  which  is  much  esteemed  by  men  of 
good  taste. 

Demeanor  of  a  Qentleman. 

One  must  be  a  gentleman  before  he  can 
act  the  gentleman .  To  put  on  a  semblance 
of  what  we  do  not  possess  is  simply  to  ex- 
pose ourselves  to  the  world,  which  will  not 
be  slow  in  discovering  the  false  show,  and 
ridiculing  or  despising  the  hypocrisy.  May 
good  breeding  be  acquired  as  an  art  ?  Yes, 
in  a  measure,  so  far  as  dress,  ceremonial  de- 
portment, and  outward  display  of  gentility 
go.  One  may  ape  the  gentleman,  even 
while  not  being  the  gentleman.  Yet  there 
is  a  something  beyond  this,  visible  in  every 
word  and  tone,  which  makes  the  true  gen- 
tleman, and  to  gain  which  one  must  train 
his  heart  as  well  as  his  manners. 

In  the  well-chosen  words  of  Ruskin  : 
"A  gentleman's  first  characteristic  is  that 
fineness  of  structure  in  the  body  which  ren- 
ders it  capable  of  the  most  delicate  sensa- 
tion, and  of  that  structure  in  the  mind  which 
renders  it  capable  of  the  most  delicate  sym- 
pathies— one  may  say,  simply,  '  fineness  of 
nature.'  This  is,  of  course,  compatible 
with  heroic  bodily  strength  and  mental 
firmness ;  in  fact,  heroic  strength  is  not 
conceivable  without  such  delicacy.  Ele- 
phantine strength  may  drive  its  way  through 
a  forest,  and  feel  no  touch  of  the  boughs  ; 
but  the  white  skin  of  Homer's  Atrides 
would  have  felt  a  bent  rose-leaf,  yet  subdue 
its  feelings  in  glow  of  battle,  and  behave 
itself  like  iron.  I  do  not  mean  to  call  an 
elephant  a  vulgar  animal ;  but  if  you  think 
about  him  carefully,  you  will  find  that  his 
non-vulgarity  consists  in  such  gentleness  as 
is  possible  to  elephantine  nature  ;  not  in  his 


insensitive  hide,  nor  in  his  clumsy  foot,  but 
in  the  way  he  will  lift  his  foot  if  a  child  lies 
in  his  path  ;  and  in  his  sensitive  trunk,  and 
still  more  sensitive  mind,  and  capability  of 
pique  on  points  of  honor.  Hence  it  will 
follow,  that  one  of  the  probable  signs  of 
high  breeding  in  men  generally  will  be  their 
kindness  and  mercifulness ;  these  always 
indicating  more  or  less  firmness  of  make  in 
the  mind." 

What  Constitutes  Gentlemanly  Manners. 

The  manners  of  a  gentleman  are  the 
index  of  his  soul.  His  speech  is  innocent, 
because  it  springs  from  a  pure  spirit.  His 
thoughts  are  direct,  because  they  are  the  ex- 
ponents of  upright  actions.  His  bearing  is 
gentle  because  it  arises  from  gentle  impulses 
and  kindliness  of  heart.  Pretentious  man- 
ners^ are  alien  to  the  nature  of  the  true  gen- 
tleman. He  avoids  instead  of  exacting 
homage.  Ceremonies  do  not  attract  him. 
He  is  as  ready  to  do  kindly  acts  as  to  say 
civil  things.  He  regulates  his  hospitality 
by  his  means,  but  graces  it  with  heartiness 
and  sincerity  of  welcome.  He  chooses  his 
friends  for  qualities  akin  to  his  own,  his 
servants  for  truthfulness  and  honesty,  his 
occupations  for  their  elevating  tendency  or 
their  power  of  giving  aid  or  enjoyment  to 
others.  In  a  word,  a  good  heart  is  at  the 
bottom  of  all  his  acts,  and  a  kindly  spirit 
is  the  fountain  from  which  all  his  thoughts 
arise.  In  this  consideration  it  will  not 
be  amiss  to  quote  from  Ward  McAllister  the 
following  apposite  passage  :  * '  The  value  of 
a  pleasant  manner  it  is  impossible  to 
estimate.  It  is  like  sunshine,  it  gladdens  ; 
you  feel  it,  and  are  at  once  attracted  to  the 
person  without  knowing  why.  When  you 
entertain,  do  it  in  an  easy,  natural  way,  as  M" 
it  was  an  every- day  occurrence,  not  the  event 
of  your  life  ;  but  do  it  well.  Learn  how  to 
do  it ;  never  be  ashamed  to  learn.  The 
American  people  have  a  greater  power  of 
'  catching  hold  '  and  adapting  themselves  to 
new  surroundings  than  any  other  people  in 
the  world.     . 

"  If  women  should  cultivate  pleasant 
manners,  should  not  men  do  the  same? 
Are  not  manners  as  important  to  men  as  to 
women  ?  The  word  '  gentleman  '  may  have 
its  derivation  from  gentle  descent,  but  my 


162 


noOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


ii 


understanding  of  a  gentleman  has  always 
been  that  he  is  a  person  free  from  arrogance 
and  anything  like  self-assertion  ;  consider- 
ate of  the  feelings  of  others  ;  so  satisfied 
and  secure  in  his  own  position  that  he  is 
always  unpretentious,  feeling  he  could  not 
do  an  ungentlemanly  act ;  as  courteous  and 
kind  in  manner  to  his  inferiors  as  to  his 
equals.  The  best-bred  men  I  have  ever  met 
have  always  been  the  least  pretentious. 
Natural  and  simple  in  manner,  modest  in 
apparel,  never  wearing  anything  voyant  or 
conspicuous  ;  but  always  so  well  dressed 
that  you  could  never  discover  what  made 
them  so, — the  good,  quiet  taste  of  the  whole 
producing  the  result. 

' '  Here  all  men  are  more  or  less  in  busi- 
ness. We  hardly  have  a  class  who  are  not. 
They  are,  of  necessity,  daily  brought  into 
contact  with  all  sorts  and  conditions  of  men, 
and  in  self-defense  oftentimes  have  to  acquire 
an  abrupt,  a  brusque  manner  of  address, 
which,  as  a  rule,  they  generally  leave  in 
their  offices  when  they  quit  them.  If  they 
do  not,  they  certainly  should.  When  such 
rough  manners  become  by  practice  a  second 
nature,  they  unfit  one  to  go  into  society. 
It  pays  well  for  young  and  old  to  cultivate 
politeness  and  courtesy.  Nothing  is  gained 
by  trying  roughly  to  elbow  yourself  into 
society,  and  push  your  way  through  into  the 
inner  circle ;  for  when  such  a  one  has 
reached  it,  he  will  find  the  atmosphere  un- 
congenial, and  be  only  too  glad  to  escape 
from  it." 

The  Demands  of   Etiquette. 

Etiquette  makes  many  demands  upon  a 
man,  demands  which  cannot  safely  be  set 
aside,  if  he  wishes  to  preserve  the  high  title 
of  gentleman .  It  is  his  duty  to  answer  let- 
ters, notes,  and  invitations  without  delay. 
He  must  dress  neatly  ;  there  is  no  need  that 
he  should  dress  lavishly.  To  dress  well  is 
to  dress  appropriately.  He  must  be  defer- 
ential to  the  old  and  courteous  to  the  young, 
and  yield  place  and  precedence  to  women — 
the  older  in  preference. 

If  he  be  afflicted  with  physical  or  mental 
ailments,  let  him  bear  them  as  philosophi- 
cally as  possible,  and,  at  all  events,  avoid 
speaking  of  them  in  company.  If  he  be 
placed  under  obligation,  he  should  not  let  it 


remain  any  longer  than  he  can  help — if  it  be 
of  a  kind  that  can  be  returned. 

It  is  not  the  large,  but  the  little,  things 
that  often  test  and  try  a  man's  character  and 
disposition.  These  make  up  the  bulk  of 
existence.  We  are  rarely  called  upon  to 
act  the  hero  ;  we  are  daily  required  >  to  act 
the  gentleman. 

"  Among  these  trifles  light  as  air,"  says 
a  recent  writer  on  etiquette,  "  is  the  ever - 
recurrent  and  not  a  little  vexing  question  of 
the  payment  of  fares  in  a  car  or  omnibus  by 
an  acquaintance,  and  the  adjustment  of  such 
matters." 

In  the  opinion  of  this  writer,  there  is 
only  one  rule  about  paying  a  lady's  fare 
under  such  circumstances,  and  that  is, 
"  Don't  offer  to  do  it,"  unless  called  upon 
to  do  so  through  trouble  on  her  part  in 
making  change  or  other  exigency. 

Women  do  not  altogether  like  to  be  put 
under  an  obligation  of  this  kind  ;  some  do 
not  like  it  at  all,  feeling  that  it  is  not  easy 
to  repay.  If  she  seeks  to  return  the  sum, 
it  should  be  accepted  without  hesitation. 
There  is  no  honor  gained  by  attempting  to 
appear  magnanimous  about  a  trifle. 

Etiquette  of  Travel. 

As  regards  offering  a  seat  in  a  street  car, 
that  is  a  matter  which  should  be  governed 
by  circumstances.  There  is  no  call  for  an 
oldish  or  tired  man  to  give  up  his  seat  to  a 
young  woman,  who  is  evidently  better  able 
to  stand  than  himself.  For  a  young  man 
to  give  up  his  seat  is  a  different  matter,  but 
in  doing  so  preference  should  not  be  given 
to  youth  and  beauty,  as  is  too  often  the 
rule.  True  courtesy  demands  that  the  seat 
should  be  offered  to  the  woman  evidently 
least  able  to  stand,  no  matter  whether  she 
be  well  or  ill  dressed,  handsome  or  the  op- 
posite, rich  or  poor. 

These  instances  are  offered  simply  as 
examples  of  those  small  occasions  for  con- 
sideration and  courteous  demeanor  which 
are  of  daily  occurrence,  and  which  are  apt 
to  be  truer  tests  of  character  than  many  of 
the  greater  exigencies  of  life.  There  is  a 
streak  of  selfishness,  or,  at  the  least,  of  self- 
indulgence,  in  us  all  to  whose  counsel  it  is 
dangerous  to  listen,  if  we  desire  to  wear  at 
least  the  outer  aspect  of  a  gentleman.  The 
63 


12 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


tuan  who  is  a  gentleman  by  nature  needs  no 
suggestions  on  these  small  points  ;  instinct 
will  tell  him  how  to  act.  Yet  in  all  cases 
some  training  in  the  customs  and  observ- 
ances of  good  society  is  of  utility.     The 


readiness  to  do  the  right  thing  is  not  all 
there  is  to  consider.  A  knowledge  of  what 
is  the  right  thing  to  do  in  the  daily  exigen- 
cies of  life  is  of  equal  importance  to  all. 


II.     THE  ART  OF   DRESS 


The  fashion  of  attire  is  a  question  of  the 
passing  day  ;  its  aesthetics  is  a  question  of 
the  ages.  Persons  of  taste  will  avoid  the 
ridiculous,  whatever  may  be  the  demands  of 
fashion,  yet  will  not  vary  so  far  from  the 
prevailing  custom  in  dress  as  to  expose 
themselves  to  ridicule  from  singularity. 

Dress  has  in  it  some  of  the  essentials  of 
the  fine  arts ,  and  to  be  well  dressed  requires 
other  requisites  than  the  possession  of  wealth 
and  a  good  figure.  Good  taste  and  refine- 
ment stand  first ;  all  other  essentials  come 
second.  To  dress  well,  the  qualities  of 
color,  harmony,  and  contrast  need  to  be 
observed,  and  a  trained  and  artistic  eye  is 
as  essential  as  a  sensible  and  well-balanced 
mind.  Dress,  to  be  in  good  taste,  by  no 
means  needs  to  be  costly.  Fit,  proportion, 
and  harmony  in  shade  and  color  are  the  ob- 
jects to  be  observed,  and  while  there  should 
be  a  reasonable  consideration  of  the  dictates 
of  fashion,  no  person  of  sense  will  follow 
fashion  blindly,  to  the  neglect  of  the  essen- 
tials of  adaptation  to  figure,  face,  and  occu- 
pation. 

A  Well=Dressed  Woman. 

Some  one  says  that  "  as  a  work  of  art  a 
veil-dressed  woman  is  a  study."  The  toil- 
ette of  such  a  person  is  always  well-chosen, 
with  consideration  of  its  purpose,  and  is 
always  adapted  to  the  situation,  whether  it 
be  breakfast-room  or  ball-room,  promenade 
or  reception.  If  she  loves  bright  colors,  and 
they  agree  with  her  complexion,  they  will 
be  as  harmoniously  arranged  as  the  tints  of 
an  artist.  If  subdued  colors  are  demanded, 
she  will  not  let  any  desire  for  display  lead 
her  into  the  use  of  garish  tints.  If  she  is 
young,  her  dress  will  be  youthful  ;  if  she  is 
old,  it  will  avoid  showiness.  She  will 
always  rather  follow  than  lead  the  prevailing 
fashion,  and  in  no  event  will  permit  the 
costume  of  the  day  to  lead  her  into  violation 
of  good  taste  and  common  sense 


The  golden  rule  in  dress  is  to  avoid 
extremes.  To  afiect  peculiarities  of  costume 
shows  a  lack  of  good  taste,  while  it  is  not 
less  unwise  to  follow  fashions  which  are 
unbecoming  to  the  special  person.  Ladies 
who«are  neither  very  young  nor  very  attrac- 
tive in  appearance  will  do  best  to  wear 
quiet  colors  and  simple  styles  ;  while  those 
who  are  not  rich  can  always  appear  taste- 
fully dressed,  if  they  exercise  care  in  the 
choice,  and  display  skill  and  judgment  in 
the  arrangement  of  materials.  A  dress- 
maker of  good  taste  is  an  essential  to  good 
dressing.  The  dressmaker  is  a  woman's 
good  or  evil  genius,  and  may  do  much  to 
make  or  mar  her  position  in  social  circles. 

Dress  for  Various  Occasions. 

Morning  dress  should  be  faultless  in  its 
way.  For  young  ladies,  whether  married 
or  single,  there  is  no  prettier  summer  morn- 
ing wear  than  white  or  very  light  dresses  of 
washing  materials .  Yet  those  must  be  always 
fresh  and  clean,  and  the  collars  and  cuffs  irre- 
proachable. For  morning  wear  simplicity  in 
attire  is  imperative.  Silk  should  not  be  worn. 
Cotton  and  woolen  are  the  proper  materials . 

The  walking-dress  should  be  quiet.  A 
rich  or  showy  dress  in  the  street  is  apt  to 
attract  more  attention  than  is  desirable  or 
always  agreeable.  For  the  carriage,  how- 
ever, a  lady  may  dress  as  elegantly  as  she 
wishes. 

Elderly  ladies  should  dress  as  richly  as 
their  means  permit.  A  thin  old  lady  may 
wear  delicate  colors,  while  one  of  stout 
person  or  florid  complexion  will  look  best 
in  black  or  dark  grey.  But  for  young 
and  old  alike  the  complexion  and  figure 
have  much  to  do  with  determining  the  suit- 
able colors.  Rich  colors  harmonize  well 
with  brunette  complexions,  but  for  blondes 
and  those  of  delicate  tints  of  face  the  desir- 
able colors  to  be  worn  are  those  of  more 
delicate  hue. 
64 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


13 


At  dinner  parties,  unless  they  be  small 
and  familiar  in  kind,  only  the  fullest  dress 
is  appropriate.  But  at  unceremonious  din- 
ners demi-toilette  can  be  worn,  and  high 
dresses  if  the  material  be  sufficiently  rich. 
Real  flowers  may  be  worn  at  dinner  parties, 
but  it  is  better  to  wear  artificial  ones  at  balls, 
since  the  heat  and  dancing  are  apt  to  cause 
real  flowers  to  droop  and  shed  their  petals. 

Gloves,  shoes,  and  boots  must  always  be 
faultless.  Gloves  cannot  be  too  light  for  the 
carriage,  or  too  dark  for  the  streets.  A 
woman  with  ill-fitting  gloves  lacks  one  of  the 
essentials  of  suitable  dress.  It  may  be 
remarked,  by  the  way,  that  perfumes  should 
be  used  only  in  the  evening,  and  with  the 
strictest  moderation,  and  that  perfumes  to 
be  tolerable  must  be  of  the  most  delicate 
kind. 

There  has  never  been  a  more  telling  and 
sensible  criticism  than  that  made  by  Dr. 
Johnson  on  a  lady's  dress.  "  I  am  sure  she 
was  well  dressed,"  he  said,  ."for  I  cannot 
remember  what  she  had  on." 

Suitability  of  Apparel. 

Suit  your  dresses  to  the  occasions  upon 
which  they  are  to  be  used.  In  the  morning, 
at  home,  a  lady  may  wear  i  loose,  flowing 
dress,  made  high  in  the  neck,  with  a  belt  at 
the  waist,  and  with  loose  sleeves  fastened  at 
the  wrist.  On  the  street  a  walking-costume 
should  be  worn,  and  the  dress  should  clear 
the  ground.  There  is  nothing  more  disgust- 
ing than  to  see  a  rich  dress  sweeping  up  the 
dirt  and  filth  of  the  street. 

Fashion  seems  to  decree  this  at  the 
present  time,  with  the  ungraceful  result  of 
seeing  nine  women  out  of  ten  awkwardly 
holding  up  their  skirts.  The  tenth  sensibly 
ignores  fashion  in  favor  of  comfort. 

The  shoes  for  the  street  should  be  high, 
warm,  and  easy  to  the  feet,  with  a  low, 
broad  heel,  and  should  be  always  neatly 
blackened.  For  ordinary  street  wear  a  lady 
may  use  either  a  hat  or  a  bonnet.  This  is 
a  matter  of  taste.  In  the  dress  of  ladies 
great  latitude  is  allowed  ;  but  the  aim  of  all 
who  aspire  to  be  well  dressed  should  be  sim- 
plicity and  taste,  the  character  of  the  occasion 
being  always  carefully  considered .  lyatitude 
or  great  variety  in  dress  is  no  longer  thought 
original,  and  startling  innovations  are  dan- 


gerous experiments.  With  artistic  taste 
they  may  prove  a  success,  but  are  much 
more  likely  to  be  a  failure. 

It  is  important  that  a  lady  should 
always  dress  neatly  at  home.  She  is  then 
ready  to  receive  a  morning  caller  without 
having  to  change  her  dress.  She  should 
change  her  dress  for  the  evening.  Some 
neat  and  dainty  costume  should  be  worn, 
according  to  her  taste,  for  it  is  in  the  even- 
ing that  she  is  thrown  most  with  the  male 
members  of  her  family,  and  is  most  likely 
to  have  visitors.  In  making  evening  calls 
upon  her  friends,  a  lady  should  wear  a  hood, 
or  some  light  head-wrap  easily  laid  aside. 
A  bonnet  should  always  be  removed  at  the 
commencement  of  such  a  visit. 

Public  Occasions. 

The  fashion  of  the  time  must  govern  tht 
evening  dress  for  public  occasions.  Full 
dress  must  always  be  worn,  but  it  is  impos- 
sible to  give  any  fixed  rule  regarding  it,  ir 
view  of  the  frequent  changes  in  the  demands 
of  fashion.  A  competent  dressmaker,  or 
the  fashion  publications  of  the  time,  will  give 
the  necessary  information.  In  Europe,  the 
evening  dress  requires  the  exposure  of  the 
arms  and  neck  ;  but  in  this  country  the 
more  sensible  plan  of  covering  these  parts 
of  the  body  is  widely  the  fashion,  and 
should  be  observed  except  on  very  special 
occasions. 

The  dress  for  balls  and  soirees  should  be 
of  the  richest  within  the  lady's  means.  Yet 
a  certain  degree  of  repression  is  important, 
if  one  would  avoid  seeming  overdressed. 
White  kid  gloves  and  white  satin  or  kid 
boots  are  most  suitable  to  a  ball  dress.  If 
the  overdress  is  of  black  lace,  black  satin 
shoes  are  worn.  Hints  and  directions,  how- 
ever, are  of  little  need  to  ladies  for  occasions 
of  this  kind.  Example  and  experience, 
either  of  themselves  or  their  friends,  will 
prevent  them  from  going  far  wrong. 

The  richest  full  dress  should  be  worn  at 
the  opera.  The  head  should  be  bare,  and 
dressed  in  the  most  becoming  style.  Jewelry 
may  be  worn,  according  to  taste,  as  there  is 
no  place  where  it  shows  to  better  advantage. 
A  light  or  brilliant  colored  opera  cloak  will 
add  greatly  to  the  lady's  appearance  and 
Comfort.      Gloves  of   white,   or   delicately 


H 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


tinted,  kid  only  are  to  be  worn.  The  ordi- 
nary walking-dress,  however,  is  suitable  for 
other  places  of  amusement.  A  rich  and 
elegant  shawl  may  be  worn,  as  it  can  be 
thrown  off  when  uncomfortable.  The  sensi- 
ble fashion  is  now  making  its  way  to  remove 
the  hat  at  theatres  and  lectures,  out  of  due 
regard  for  those  whose  view  of  the  stage 
may  be  obstructed.  This  being  the  case, 
there  is  no  need  to  spoil  the  hair  by  wearing 
hat  or  bonnet  on  the  way  thither. 

Plain  and  simple  dress  should  be  worn 
for  church,  with  very  little  jewelr)^  The 
costume  should  be  of  quiet  colors.  It  is  a 
mark,  of  bad  taste  for  ladies  to  attend  church 
elaborately  or  conspicuously  dressed.  It 
shows  a  disregard  for  the  solemnity  of  the 
sanctuary,  and  is  calculated  to  draw  off  the 
attentions  of  others  from  the  duties  of  the 
place. 

Jewelry. 

Much  display  of  jewelry  is  out  of  place 
for  young  ladies,  and  the  kind  of  jewelry  to 
be  worn  demands  as  careful  consideration 
IS  that  of  the  dress  itself.  Diamonds,  pearls, 
and  transparent  precious  stones  generally 
belong  to  evening  costume,  and  are  always 
in  taste  at  night ;  but  they  should  not  be 
worn  in  the  earlier  parts  of  the  day.  In 
the  morning,  indeed,  only  a  simple  ring  or 
two  are  admissible,  with,  perhaps,  a  gold 
brooch,  and  a  watch  and  chain. 

As  regards  cost  of  jewelry,  it  is  by  no 
means  the  best  criterion  of  taste.  A  simple 
and  inexpensive  jewel  may  occasionally 
have  the  effect  of  an  exquisite  work  of  art, 
while  a  large  and  showy  brilliant  may  give 
the  impression  of  vulgar  display  or  showy 
overdress.  To  wear  much  jewelry  in  the 
streets  is  in  very  bad  taste,  while  in  large 
cities  it  may  subject  the  wearer  to  danger 
from  robbery. 

In  traveling  it  is  inadvisable  to  make  a 
display  of  jewelry.  It  is  particularly  unde- 
sirable if  a  lady  is  traveling  alone,  for  the 
reason  just  given. 

Traveling  Dress. 

Traveling  costume  should  be  simple  in 
style  and  quiet  in  color,  materials  that  will 
not  show  dirt  being  preferable.  A  water- 
proof cloak  is  a  very  desirable  addition,  as 


it  may  be  at  any  time  suddenly  needed.  In 
summer  travel  a  long  linen  duster,  belted  at 
the  waist,  should  be  worn  over  the  dress. 

For  the  country  or  sea-side,  simple  and 
inexpensive  dresses  should  be  provided  for 
ordinary  wear.  The  bonnet  should  give 
place  to  a  hat  with  a  brim  sufficiently  wide 
to  shield  the  face  and  neck  from  the  sun. 

Bathing  dresses  should  be  made  of  blue 
or  gray  flannel.  The  skirt  should  come 
down  to  the  ankles,  and  the  sleeves  should 
be  long.  An  oil  silk  or  India-rubber  cap, 
fitting  tightly  around  the  head,  will  protect 
the  hair  from  the  salt  water. 

It  is  impossible  to  prescribe  an  exact 
style  or  mode  of  dress  for  ladies  in  all  places 
and  on  all  occasions.  Fashion  will  change, 
and,  it  must  be  confessed,  in  the  matter  of 
female  costume,  its  changes  have  often  been 
for  the  better. 

In  regard  to  "overdressing,"  it  is  not 
easy  to  draw  a  line,  customs  in  different 
localities  varying  so  much  that  what  is  per- 
missible in  one  place  might  be  utterly  out  of 
place  in  another.  The  usual  thing  for  win- 
ter dress  is  a  stuff  dress — a  "  cloth  suit,"  it 
is  usually  called — worn  with  a  fancy  bodice. 
For  elderly  women,  with  money  enough  to 
afford  it,  costumes  of  silk,  with  elaborate 
trimming,  are  often  worn.  With  toilettes 
of  this  kind  the  custom  of  wearing  lace  is 
on  the  increase  ;  but  these  are  matters  which 
the  dressmaker  is  most  competent  to  decide 
upon  at  any  fixed  period.  As  a  general 
rule,  however,  loud  colors  should  be  avoided, 
and  it  is  best  never  to  risk  extremes  of  cos- 
tume, whether  in  or  out  of  the  line  of  fash- 
ion, if  one  wishes  to  escape  the  verdict  of 
vulgarity. 

A  WelUDressed  Man. 

Buffon  has  remarked  that  a  man's 
clothes  are  a  part  of  himself,  and  enter  into 
our  conception  of  his  character.  And  cer- 
tainly no  man  who  is  experienced  in  the 
ways  of  the  world  and  has  any  regard  for 
social  opinion  can  consider  the  question  of 
dress  as  unimportant.  We  may  excuse  a 
man  who  dresses  very  negligently,  but  we 
rarely  hold  him  in  any  high  regard.  Our 
conception  of  the  interior  qualities  of  a  per- 
son is  influenced,  more  than  we  are  ordi- 
narily aware,  by  his  exterior  appearance. 
66 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


15 


Walpole  truly  says  :  ' '  We  must  speak  to 
the  eyes,  if  we  wish  to  affect  the  mind." 

In  paying  a  visit,  or  in  mingling  in  good 
society,  it  is  complimentary  to  our  hosts  to 
be  well  dressed,  and  shows  disregard  of 
their  wishes  to  be  slovenly  in  attire.  Even 
in  a  casual  meeting,  or  in  cases  where  the 
costume  is  likely  to  be  of  minor  considera- 
tion, neat  and  careful  dressing  is  very  likely 
to  be  of  advantage.  A  negligent  attire  in- 
dicates that  a  man  is  heedless  of  the  opin- 
ions of  others,  and  indifferent  to  their  good 
will  or  respect. 

A.  careful  and  neat  attire,  on  the  con- 
trary, indicates  a  man  who  has  a  regard  for 
himself  and  for  the  sentiments  of  others,  one 
who  finds  pleasure  in  social  intercourse,  and 
loves  to  mingle  in  the  society  of  his  fellows. 
It  is  a  kind  of  general  offer  of  acquaintance, 
and  proves  a  willingness  to  be  accosted. 
Dress  is  the  livery  of  good  society,  and  he 
who  would  advance  in  the  profession  of 
pleasing  must  pay  due  regard  to  his  outward 
aspect. 

Dress  is  also  significant  of  inner  feeling, 
and  expresses  qualities  of  mind  which  are 
likely  to  affect  the  outward  conduct.  That 
courtier  was  not  far  astray  who  dated  the 
beginning  of  the  French  Revolution  from 
the  day  when  a  nobleman  appeared  at  Ver- 
sailles without  buckles  on  his  shoes. 

Fashion  is  called  a  despot ;  but  if  men 
are  willing  to  be  its  slaves,  we  cannot,  and 
ought  not,  to  upbraid  fashion.  In  truth, 
the  man  who  rebels  against  fashion  is  often 
more  open  to  the  imputation  of  vanity  than 
he  who  obeys  it,  because  he  makes  himself 
conspicuous,  and  practically  announces  that 
he  is  wiser  than  his  kind.  Affectation  is 
always  the  essence  of  vulgarity.  Between 
the  two  it  is  left  to  the  man  of  sense  and 
modesty  to  follow  fashion  only  so  far  as  not 
to  make  himself  peculiar  by  opposing  it,  and 
in  whatever  he  does  or  whatever  he  wears  to 
let  good  taste,  common  sense,  and  a  proper 
regard  for  the  opinion  of  his  fellows  be  the 
guides  of  his  conduct. 

A  prime  requisite  in  dress  is  its  sim- 
plicity, with  which  may  be  coupled  harmony 
of  color.  This  simplicity  is  the  only  dis- 
tinction which  a  man  of  taste  should  aspire 
to  in  the  matter  of  dress,  for  simplicity  in 
appearance  must  proceed  from  a  nicety  in 


167 


reality.     One   should    not    be    simply   ill- 
dressed,  but  simply  well-dressed. 

All  extravagance,  all  over  display,  and 
all  profusion  must  be  avoided.  The  colors, 
in  the  first  place,  must  harmonize  both  with 
our  complexion  and  with  one  another  ;  per- 
haps most  of  all, with  the  color  of  our  hair. 
All  bright  colors  should  be  avoided,  even  in 
gloves  and  neck-ties.  The  deeper  colors 
are,  somehow  or  other,  more  manly,  and 
are  certainly  less  striking.  The  same  sim- 
plicity should  be  studied  in  the  avoidance  of 
ornamentation. 

Appropriate  Costume. 

You  should  dress  according  to  your 
occupation  and  means.  If  you  are  a  sales- 
man, you  would  not  think  it  appropriate  to 
appear  in  the  regulation  gc:rb  of  a  bishop. 
Good  sense  and  good  taste  form  the  first 
rule,  and  about  the  only  one  to  be  consid- 
ered. 

In  the  shifting  climate  of  our  country, 
gentlemen  of  late  years  have  very  sensibly 
adopted  the  mode  of  dressing  especially  for 
comfort.  They  have  to  brave  all  kinds  of 
weather,  sometimes  wade  through  mud  and 
slush,  sometimes  face  a  summer  shower  or 
cyclone,  and  they  find  it  more  essential  to 
be  protected  against  these  climatic  changes 
than  to  appear  in  elegant  costume. 

Their  dress  does  not  undergo  so  many 
modifications  as  that  of  ladies,  and  it  is 
comparatively  easy  for  them  to  wear  ap- 
parel that  will  be  simple  and  serviceable, 
and  at  the  same  time  in  good  taste. 

There  is  much  less  to  be  said  about  the 
dress  of  men  than  of  ;A;^omen,  as  it  is  not 
subject  to  such  extreme  changes  or  suscep- 
tible of  such  great  diversity  in  color,  cut, 
and  material.  For  the  day  the  business 
suit  is  the  usual  costume,  black  or  dark  in 
color,  with  shoes  of  black  or  tan  leather, 
and  a  derby  or  a  soft  hat.  Those  who  de- 
sire a  reputation  for  dressing  well  will 
scarcely  appear  in  a  high  hat  and  tan  shoes 
together. 

Sack  coats  or  cutaways  can  be  worn 
with  tweed  or  any  rough  cloth  trousers  and 
waistcoat,  the  weight  and  color  being  varied 
to  fit  the  season.  As  evening  approaches 
the  sack  coat  and  business  suit  should  be 
replaced  by  a  cutaway  or  frock  coat.     In 


l6 


BOOK  OF  ETIOUETTE 


the  country  rough  tweed  suits,  fancy  flan- 
nels and  any  kind  of  hat  may  be  worn, 
unless  the  gentleman  is  going  to  some 
special  social  entertainment,  when  he  should 
dress  much  as  in  the  city. 

The  Shirt  Waist. 

In  the  summer  of  1900  the  shirt-waist, 
which  was  worn  almost  universally  by 
women,  was  emulated  by  men,  many  of 
whom  assumed,  during  business  hours,  un- 
starched colored  shirts  worn  without  vests, 
while  a  waist  belt  replaced  the  usual  braces. 
Often  the  coat  was  discarded.  The  comfort 
of  this  attire  during  the  heated  term  was  so 
great  that  the  "  shirt-waist  man"  promises 
to  become  a  recognized  summer  institution. 

As  for  evening  dress,  a  considerable  lati- 
tude of  opinion  concerning  this  prevails. 
During  the  warm  season — from  June  to 
October — comfort  demands  much  laxity  in 


this  respect.  As  evening  dress  is  never  seen 
in  city  streets  without  an  overcoat,  and  as 
few  care  to  swelter  at  the  dictum  of  fashion, 
many  men  of  sense  content  themselves  with 
a  neat  ordinary  dress.  There  is  a  variety  of 
usage  in  this  respect  also  at  the  theatre,  and 
it  is  coming  to  be  imperative  to  wear  even- 
ing attire  only  at  formal  dinners  or  at  cer- 
tain fashionable  assemblages  which  make  it 
a  requisite.  In  general,  except  during  the 
summer,  it  is  a  safe  rule  for  the  denizen  of 
fashionable  circles  to  change  his  dress  every 
evening,  so  as  to  be  prepared  for  dinner  or 
any  other  formal  occasion.  But  as  the 
denizens  of  fashionable  circles  compose  a 
limited  section  of  the  community,  an  island 
in  the  sea  of  the  multitude  who  claim  no 
such  exclusive  honor,  evening  dress,  as  a 
general  rule,  is  kept  for  special  occasions, 
and  men  at  home  consider  comfort  and  con- 
venience far  more  than  fashion. 


III.   INTRODUCTIONS. 


The  laws  of  society  do  not  permit  you 
to  claim  acquaintance  with  other  persons 
unless  you  have  been  properly  introduced, 
though  in  traveling  this  rule  may  often 
be  reasonably  omitted.  Under  ordinary 
circumstances  care  and  discrimination 
should  be  exercised  in  making  gentlemen 
acquainted  with  each  other,  and  still  greater 
heed  is  demanded  in  the  introduction  of 
ladies  and  gentlemen.  It  should  always  be 
understood  in  advance  whether  or  not  the 
lady  is  likely  to  desire  the  introduction.  In 
no  case  should  it  be  thrust  upon  her  without 
regard  to  her  objections.  And  it  is  not  ad- 
visable to  make  the  request  within  hearing 
of  the  party  concerned,  since  this  may  put 
her  in  an  awkward  situation,  if  wishing  to 
decline. 

Do  not  forget  that,  in  introducing  one 
person  to  another,  you  assume  a  social  re- 
sponsibility for  the  person  you  introduce, 
and  great  care  should  be  taken  in  giving 
this  indorsement.  It  is  possible  for  you  to 
inflict  a  positive  injury  by  introducing  a 
man  of  objectionable  character  to  a  lady.  If 
you  are  not  well  informed  in  respect  to  the 
reputation  of  the  one  for  whom  you  are  about 
to  become  responsible,  pause  and  go  no  fur- 


[68 


ther.  You  should  not  be  a  party  to  the  for- 
mation of  any  relations  which  may  possibly 
have  an  injurious  efiect. 

The  same  conditions  hold  good  in  the 
business  world.  An  introduction  carries 
with  it  some  indorsement  which  may  lead  to 
business  transactions  involving  great  finan- 
cial risks. 

Rules  of  Introduction. 

In  England,  visitors  meeting  in  the  same 
house  are  expected  to  enter  into  conversa- 
tion, though  no  formal  presentation  has 
been  made,  and  no  previous  acquaintance 
has  existed.  In  the  United  States,  how- 
ever, the  fashion  of  introducing  people  who 
meet  as  strangers  still  continues,  though  in 
certain  highly  fashionable  circles  the  English 
fashion  is  affected.  It,  perhaps,  has  its  ad- 
vantages, in  enabling  visitors  to  converse 
freely  without  waiting  for  the  formality  of 
an  introduction,  and  leaving  them  free  not 
to  know  one  another  afterwards.  But  it 
has  its  disadvantages  as  well,  especially 
in  the  case  of  shy  and  easily  embarrassed 
people. 

The  American  rule  has  long  been  to 
introduce  generally,  and  in  early  society  in 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


17 


this  country  it  was  deemed  necessary  to 
make  everybody  in  company  acquainted, 
from  a  somewhat  forced  idea  of  the  require- 
ments of  hospitality.  This  wholesale  cus- 
tom is  no  longer  observed,  and  common 
sense  prevails  in  this  as  in  social  customs 
generally. 

One  should  always  show  discretion  in 
this  observance,  as  in  all  the  demands  of 
society.  It  is  not,  for  instance,  advisable 
to  interrupt  a  conversation  for  the  purpose 
of  making  an  introduction.  The  intention 
will  wait,  and  even  if  it  fails  altogether  >:o 
harm  is  usually  done.  Few  persons  will 
thank  you  for  making  them  too  conspicuous. 

Of  the  places  where  an  introduction  is 
not  in  order  we  may  particularly  instance  a 
church.  Here  it  would  be  quite  improper, 
not  only  within  the  building,  but  even  at 
its  entrance.  Nor  is  it  necessary  to  intro- 
duce two  persons  at  an  entirely  casual  meet- 
ing— in  a  street  car,  for  example,  or  if  you 
happen  to  meet  an  acquaintance,  whom  your 
companion  does  not  know,  at  some  friend's 
door.  Of  course,  if  the  chat  should  be  ex- 
tended, or  if  you  think  it  desirable  that  they 
should  know  one  another,  an  introduction 
is  perfectly  admissible  ;  but  it  is  in  no  sense 
incumbent  upon  you. 

One  further  remark  in  this  connection 
may  be  made,  in  reference  to  the  frequent 
failure  to  catch  the  name  of  the  person  intro- 
duced. This  often  causes  a  feeling  of  em- 
barrassment, and  a  somewhat  awkward 
attempt  to  discover  the  missing  name.  ' '  I 
didn't  quite  catch  the  name,'  is  the  most 
ordinary  way  out  of  the  difficulty,  but  some- 
thing more  original  might  well  be  attempted, 
as,  "Pardon  my  inattention  to  Mr.  C.  I 
was  so  occupied  with  the  honor  offered  me 
as  to  be  deaf  to  the  name"  ;  or,  less  effu- 
sively, "Will  you  kindly  tell  me  again 
whom  I  have  the  favor  of  meeting  ?' ' 

The  trouble  is  worse  when  you  imme- 
diately forget  the  name,  and  are  lacking  in 
this  particular  on  your  second  meeting  with 
the  new  acquaintance.  It  is  a  useful  accom- 
plishment which  all  do  not  possess,  that  of  re- 
membering names  readily ;  and  to  be  obliged 
to  make  the  worn-out  admission,  "Your 
face  is  perfectly  familiar,  but  I  have  for- 
gotten your  name,"  is  an  awkward  way  out 
of  the  difficulty.  Better  try  and  get  through 
i8  K  ■     16 


the  interview  in  a  way  to  escape  the  need  of 
using  the  name,  and  endeavor  to  learn  it 
before  another  meeting  is  likely  to  take 
place.  By  repeating  the  name  in  acknowl- 
edging the  introduction  and  fastening  your 
attention  thereto,  it  will  not  be  difficult  to 
remember  the  name. 

The  Introducer's  Formula. 

In  introductions  the  common  formula  is  : 
"  Mrs.  Blank,  may  I,"  or  "  allow  me  to  pre- 
sent," or  "  introduce,  Mr.  Smith." 

Never  reverse  this  order,  and  so  intro- 
duce the  lady  to  the  gentleman.  When  the 
sexes  are  the  same,  present  the  person  of 
the  lesser  to  the  one  of  the  greater  age  or 
importance. 

Always  mention  the  name  in  introducing 
members  of  your  family.  Say,  "  My  father, 
Mr.  Simpson,"  "  My  daughter,  Miss  Simp- 
son," or  "Miss  Kllen  Simpson."  Your 
wife  should  be  introduced  simply  as  "  Mrs. 
Simpson." 

In  introducing  persons  with  titles,  the 
title  should  always  be  distinctly  mentioned. 
Thus,  you  should  say,  in  presenting  a  clergy- 
man to  a  senator  of  the  United  States, 
"  Senator  A.,  permit  me  to  introduce  you  to 
my  friend,  the  Reverend  Dr.  W.  Dr.  W.  is 
the  rector  of  St.  M.  Church,  Boston." 
Then  turning  to  Dr.  W.,  say,  "Senator  A. 
represents  the  State  of  M.  in  the  United 
States  Senate." 

Upon  meeting  strangers  it  is  well  to  add 
some  pleasant  remark  or  suggest  some  inter- 
est in  common  between  them.  This  will 
serve  to  put  them  at  their  ease  and  aid  them 
to  start  a  conversation .  The  party  presented 
may  simply  say,  "How  do  you  do?"  or 
' '  I  am  glad  to  know  you, ' '  following  it  with 
such  subject  of  talk  as  may  occur  to  him. 

Introductions  do  not  necessitate  future 
mutual  recognition,  unless  agreeable  to  the 
parties  introduced.  The  ceremony  is  simply 
an  opportunity  offered  for  present  acquain- 
tance, and  can  be  ignored  by  one  or  both 
parties  immediately  after  they  leave  the 
presence  of  the  person  who  made  the  intro- 
duction. 

A  gentleman  should  never  bow  to  a  lady 
when  first  meeting  her  after  an  introduction, 
until  she  gives  him  some  sign  of  recognition, 
thus  intimating  her  desire  to  continue  the 


i8 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


acquaintance.  A  gentleman  should  always 
return  the  bow,  even  though  he  may  not  care 
for  the  acquaintance. 

Ladies  and  gentleman  need  not  shake 
hands  with  each  other  when  introduced.  A 
bow  is  sufl&cient  acknowledgement  of  the 
introduction.  Persons  of  the  same  sex  may 
or  may  not  shake  hands.  In  formal  fashion- 
able circles  the  hostess  alone  shakes  hands, 
but  ordinarily  it  is  quite  in  order  to  offer 
the  hand  when  introduced. 

Persons  meeting  at  the  houses  of  friends 
when  making  morning  calls  need  not  be  in- 
troduced to  one  another,  and  should  not  be 
unless  there  is  good  reason  to  believe  that 
such  introduction  will  be  mutually  agree- 
able. Nor  is  it  proper  for  persons  who  have 
met  in  ihis  manner,  without  introduction,  to 
bow  or  express  recognition  otherwise  should 
they  again  meet. 

A  person  making  a  visit  to  your  house 
should  be  introduced  to  every  caller.  At 
an  evening  party  it  is  the  duty  of  the  host  or 
hostess  to  make  their  guests  acquainted  with 
one  another. 

A  gentleman  should  always  promptly 
offer  his  services  to  a  lady  in  any  position  of 
difficulty,  whether  he  knows  her  or  not. 
Her  acceptance  of  his,  services  does  not  give 
him  any  claim  upon  her  acquaintance,  nor 
need  she  feel  obliged  to  recognize  him  after- 
wards without  a  formal  introduction. 

An  introduction,  however,  gives  one  a 
claim  upon  the  courtesy  of  another,  whether 
the  acquaintance  be  pleasant  or  the  contrary. 
To  ignore  a  person  to  whom  you  have  been 
properly  introduced  is  certainly  an  act  of 
ill-breeding,  and  under  certain  circumstances 
becomes  an  act  of  insolence. 

Salutations. 

In  meeting  a  friend  upon  the  street,  or  in 
company,  you  should  salute  him  cordially, 
but  quietly  and  respectfully.  A  gentleman 
should  always  salute  a  lady  by  raising  the 
hat  and  making  a  formal  bow .  In  company , 
the  bead  being  uncovered,  the  bow  alone  is 
your  salutation ;  but  it  should  in  either  case, 
be  a  decided  inclination  of  the  head  and 
body,  not  a  mere  nod. 

In  this  country,  among  ladies,  kissing  is 
a  common  mode  of  salutation,  even  on  the 
Street.     But  indications  are  that  this  custom 


is  less  popular  for  hygienic  reasons.  Gen- 
tlemen generally  shake  hands,  or  in  pass- 
ing each  other  bow,  or  make  a  courteous 
motion  of  the  hand.  Kven  where  you  are 
not  on  good  terms  with  a  person  it  is  cour- 
teous to  bow  to  him.  Should  he  fail  to  re- 
turn the  bow  the  offence  is  his,  and  you  have 
lost  nothing  by  your  politeness. 

The  lady  should  bow  first  in  meeting  a 
gentleman  on  the  street.  It  is  her  privilege 
to  do  so,  as  she  thus  shows  whether  she 
desires  to  continue  his  acquaintance  or  not. 
A  failure  on  her  part  to  bow  first  excuses 
the  gentleman  from  saluting  her.  Among 
very  intimate  friends  either  party  may  salute 
first. 

In  riding,  a  gentleman  raises  his  hat 
with  his  right  hand,  as  the  left  is  occupied 
with  the  reins. 

When  two  or  more  gentlemen,  walking 
on  the  street,  meet  a  lady  who  is  known  to 
one  only,  all  should  raise  their  hats  and  bow. 
Those  unacquainted  with  the  lady  thus  show 
their  respect  for  their  friend's  friend. 

A  gentleman  when  smoking,  if  meeting 
a  lady  acquaintance,  should  remove  the  cigar 
from  his  mouth  and  hold  it  down  by  his  side 
before  raising  his  hat  to  her.  Above  all, 
never  smoke  while  walking  or  riding  with 
a  lady.  She  may  not  object  to  it,  but  that 
does  not  pardon  your  rudeness. 

A  young  lady  should  treat  an  elderly 
person,  either  man  or  woman,  with  the  same 
deference  she  expects  at  the  hands  of  a  gen- 
tleman. 

Calls,  Formal  and  Informal. 

Residents  of  large  cities  should  call  in 
person  upon  all  their  acquaintances  at 
least  once  a  year,  if  circumstances  permit, 
and  should  pay  additional  visits  to  all  from 
whom  invitations  have  been  received.  Calls 
should  also  be  made  when  an  engagement 
or  marriage  has  taken  place  in  the  family  of 
an  acquaintance,  or  an  acquaintance  has 
returned  home  after  a  long  absence. 

The  receipt  of  any  especial  hospitality, 
such  as  a  dinner,  luncheon,  dance,  etc., 
obligates  that  the  recipient  should  call  as 
soon  thereafter  as  possible.  If  living  at  a 
distance  a  brief  note  to  the  host  or  hostess 
acknowledging  the  pleasure  received  is  pro- 

,  per ;  especially  is  this  expected  after  an  ex- 

70 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


19 


tended  visit.  This  is  imperative,  but  it  is  not 
necessary  after  a  five  o'clock  tea  or  an  at- 
home,  no  one  being  obliged  to  follow  one  call 
with  another.  Such  obligation  as  exists  is  for 
the  party  who  gave  the  tea  to  return  your 
call ;  and  this  is  obviously  impossible  if  her 
invitations  have  been  very  numerous.  After 
being  invited  to  visit  a  country  house,  a  call 
should  be  made  on  those  giving  the  invita- 
tion immediately  after  their  return  to  their 
town  residence. 

In  case  of  a  newcomer  to  the  street,  or 
the  city  if  a  small  one,  older  residents  should 
call,  and  this  visit  should  invariably  be 
returned  in  person  within  a  week.  Etiquette 
permits  a  gentleman — a  stranger — ro  call 
upon  a  lady  under  the  following  circum- 
stances :  If  she  has  invited  him  to  call,  if 
he  brings  a  letter  of  introduction,  or  if  an 
intimate  friend  of  the  lady  or  of  the  family 
presents  him. 

Custom  and  courtesy  require  that  a  lady 
shall  call  on  her  lady  friends  at  stated  times, 
or  at  moderate  intervals.  These  calls  are 
generally  short  and  formal  in  character,  the 
conversation  being  devoted  to  society  news 
and  similar  light  subjects.  Ten  or  fifteen 
minutes  is  the  usual  length  of  a  formal  call, 
half  an  hour  the  extreme  limit.  If  while 
calling  a  second  visitor  arrives,  the  first 
visitor  should  take  leave  as  soon  as  she  can 
do  so  without  seeming  abrupt.  Special 
friends  of  tne  hostess  may  linger  for  an  hour 
if  they  wish. 

In  the  large  cities  of  the  East  such  calls 
were  formerly  made  between  11  a.m.  and 
4  P.M.,  but  later  hours  in  the  afternoon  are 
now  the  vogue,  as  from  three  to  half-past  five. 
Evening  calls,  unless  in  response  to  invita- 
tion or  through  mutual  understanding,  are 
out  of  order  except  in  small  communities. 
They  may  break  into  the  dinner  hour,  or 
interfere  with  a  theatre  party  or  other  outing. 

Of  course,  these  rules  do  not  refer  to  the 
intercourse  of  intimate  friends,  the  informal 
'"  running  in,"  which  may  take  place  at  any 
time  in  the  day  or  evening,  and  need  not  in- 
terfere with  any  engagement.  Gentlemen, 
as  a  rule,  have  only  the  evening  to  call  in, 
but  may  call  on  Sunday  afternoon  after  three. 

A  lady,  in  making  a  formal  call,  should 
not  remove  her  bonnet  or  wrap.  A  gentle- 
man, in  a  similar  case,  was  formerly  required, 


while  leaving  his  umbrella  and  over;coat  in 
the  hall,  to  bring  his  hat  and  cane  into  the 
receiving  room,  either  holding  them  or 
placing  them  on  the  floor  by  his  chair.  This 
rule,  however,  is  no  longer  observed,  and  it 
is  optional  with  the  visitor  to  leave  them  in 
the  hall  if  he  prefers. 

Ladies  should  make  morning  calls  in 
simple  toilette,  and  not  in  very  rich  dresses- 
Gentlemen  wear  morning  dress. 

Ending   a  Call. 

When  a  call  is  ended  it  is  customary 
among  the  best  bred  people  to  ring  for  a  ser- 
vant to  open  the  front  door  for  a  visitor. 
Some  persons  prefer  to  attend  visitors  to  the 
door  themselves  ;  and  this  should  be  done 
if  a  servant  is  not  called  upon.  It  is  not 
courteous  to  let  a  visitor  find  his  or  her  way 
out  of  your  house  unattended. 

A  lady  should  never  attend  a  gentleman 
to  the  door  ;  nor  a  lady  either,  if  in  so  doing 
she  is  obliged  to  leave  other  lady  callers  in 
the  drawing  room. 

It  is  optional  with  the  hostess  whether 
or  not  to  rise  from  her  seat  and  cross  the 
room  to  greet  a  visitor,  or  to  accompany  to 
the  door  a  lady  who  is  taking  her  departure, 
in  case  of  no  other  ladies  being  present. 
But  in  these,  as  in  all  other  cases  where  the 
rules  of  etiquette  are  not  imperative,  it  is 
well  to  remember  that  the  course  which  sets 
the  guest  most  at  ease  will  always  be  the 
choice  of  a  kindly  nature. 

In  making  a  call,  if  the  lady  called  upon 
is  not  at  home,  leave  your  card  ;  and  if  there 
are  several  ladies  staying  there  whom  you 
desire  to  see,  request  the  servant  to  present 
your  compliments  to  them  severally.  Should 
you  not  have  a  card,  leave  your  name. 

When  a  lady  visitor  takes  her  leave,  a 
gentleman,  if  present,  should  rise,  and  oifer 
to  conduct  her  to  her  carriage.  The  offer 
may  not  be  accepted,  but  if  it  is,  do  not 
forget  to  return  and  pay  your  respects  to 
your  hostess  before  quitting  the  house. 

In  case  of  other  visitors  entering  during 
your  call,  your  hostess  is  not  obliged  to  in- 
troduce you  to  them,  and  you  should  take 
no  offence  at  her  failure  to  do  so.  Ir*  taking 
leave  after  their  entrance,  do  so  in  such  a 
way  as  not  to  make  it  appear  that  your 
departure  is  on  account  of  their  coming'. 


171 


20 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


You'  may  make  visits  of  congratulation 
upon  the  occurrence  of  any  happy  or  agree- 
able event  in  the  family  of  a  friend — such 
as  a  marriage,  a  birth,  or  the  inheritance  of 
wealth.  Such  visits  should  be  made  in  the 
morning. 

You  should  not  defer  a  visit  of  condo- 
lence beyond  the  next  week  after  a  decth 
occurs  in  a  family.     Among   friends  such 


visits  are  regarded  as  an  imperative  duty, 
except  where  contagious  diseases  render 
them  dangerous. 

In  calling  upon  a  person  living  or  stay- 
ing temporarily  at  a  hotel,  wait  in  the  parlor 
and  send  up  your  card.  Even  intimate 
friends  should  observe  this  rule.  A  gentle- 
man may  wait  in  the  office  or  hall  of  the 
hotel  while  the  waiter  takes  up  his  card. 


IV.     VISITING  AND  VISITORS 


Visits  of  friendship  are  governed  by  no 
set  rules  of  etiquette,  and  need  not  be  formal 
either  as  to  length  or  manner.  It  is  to  be 
presumed  that  friends  or  relatives  will  con- 
form to  each  other's  tastes  and  habits,  and 
conduct  themselves  in  a  manner  that  will  be 
mutually  agreeable.  With  intimate  friends 
strict  ceremony  is  uncalled  for,  yet  there  are 
certain  liberties  which  you  enjoy  at  home 
which  are  not  proper  to  take  in  the  house  of 
a  friend. 

It  is  a  sign  of  ill-breeding,  in  such  a 
visit,  to  criticise  the  conduct  of  servants  or 
children,  or  anything  connected  with  the 
household  or  the  members  of  the  family. 
Remarks  of  any  kind  on  the  faults  or  foibles 
of  persons  belonging  or  closely  related  to 
the  family  are  sadly  misplaced  ;  and  such 
remarks  made  after  taking  leave  show  a 
lack  of  good  feeling  which  is  not  redeemed 
by  being  unheard  by  those  interested.  In 
such  cases  one  should  strictly  apply  the 
golden  rule  of  friendship,  to  do  nothing  by 
act,  word,  or  deed  that  may  cause  a  dis- 
agreeable feeling  on  the  part  of  an  enter- 
tainer or  any  member  of  his  family. 

Evening  Calls. 

In  many  communities,  where  it  is  cus- 
tomary to  make  formal  evening  calls  after 
dinner,  the  usual  hour  is  from  nine  to  ten 
o'clock.  In  making  an  informal  evening 
call,  a  lady  may  bring  a  gentleman  with 
her,  presenting  him  to  her  hostess,  who  will 
present  him  to  her  other  guests. 

The  mistress  of  the  house  usually  receives 
the  visitors,  being  assisted  by  her  husband 
or  some  other  gentleman  in  the  case  of  even- 
ing parties.  The  reception  should  be  quiet, 
easy,  and  without  over-ceremony.  In  some 
places   it   is   customary   to    announce    the 


names  of  guests  as  they  enter  the  room. 
The  host  or  hostess  may  then  present  them 
to  other  guests,  if  they  are  not  already 
acquaintances. 

When  any  one  enters  the  room,  whether 
announced  or  not,  courtesy  requires  that  the 
host  or  hostess  shall  rise  at  once,  advance 
toward  the  visitor  with  words  of  welcoming, 
and  request  him  or  her  to  be  seated.  The 
seat  offered  should  be  one  that  seems  most 
suitable  to  the  age  or  sex  of  the  visitor.  If 
the  master  of  the  house  receives  the  visitors, 
he  will  take  a  chair  and  place  himself  at  a 
little  distance  from  them  ;  if,  on  the  con- 
trary, it  is  the  mistress,  and  if  she  is  intimate 
with  the  lady  who  visits  her,  she  will  place 
herself  near  her. 

If  several  ladies  come  at  once,  we  give 
the  most  honorable  place  to  the  one  who, 
from  age  or  other  considerations,  is  most 
entitled  to  respect.  If  the  visitor  is  a 
stranger,  when  the  master  or  mistress  of  the 
house  rises  any  person  who  may  be  already 
in  the  room  should  do  the  same,  unless  the 
company  is  a  large  one.  When  any  of  the 
company  withdraw,  the  master  or  mistress 
of  the  house  should  conduct  them  as  far  as 
the  door.  But  whoever  the  persons  may  be 
that  depart,  if  we  have  other  company  we 
may  dispense  with  conducting  them  farther 
than  the  door  of  the  room. 

If,  upon  entering  a  house  where  you  wish 
to  pay  an  evening  call,  you  should  find  a 
small  party  assembled ,  it  is  best  to  present 
yourself  precisely  as  though  you  had  been 
invited ,  Aftei  a  short  while  you  may  take 
your  leave,  explaining  that  you  only  in- 
tended to  make  a  brief  call. 

Do  not  unduly  prolong  an  evening  visit. 
It  is  apt  to  become  tiresome  even  to  your 
most   intimate   friends,    and,  though    they 
7^ 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


21 


politely  exert  themselves  to  be  agreeable,  it 
does  not  argue  that  they  are  not  wearied. 

Should  you  find  a  lady  on  the  point  of 
going  out  when  you  make  your  call,  make 
it  as  brief  as  possible,  in  order  to  leave  her 
at  liberty  to  carry  out  her  plans. 

When  you  have  risen  to  go,  do  not  delay 
your  departure. 

When  you  are  prevented  from  attending 
a  dinner  party,  or  social  gathering,  call 
upon  the  person  giving  it  without  delay, 
and  express  your  regret  for  your  absence. 
In  visiting  a  city  where  a  friend  resides, 
it  is  best  to  go  to  a  hotel,  although  he  may 
have  invited  you  to  make  his  house  joVlX 
home.  You  can  afterwards  call  upon  him, 
and  should  he  then  urge  you  to  accept  his 
hospitality,  you  can  do  so  wi  h  propriety. 

When  asking  guests  to  visit  you  in  your 
home,  whether  in  the  country  or  city,  it  is 
proper  to  fix  the  date  of  their  arrival  and 
of  their  leaving,  whether  the  length  of  their 
visit  is  to  be  two  days  or  a  fortnight.  If 
the  desired  duration  of  a  visit  should  not 
be  specified  in  the  invitation,  a  considerate 
person  will  take  care  not  to  extend  it  over  a 
week,  and  a  shorter  time  would  be  still  bet- 
ter. It  is  courteous,  in  every  case,  to  state 
to  your  host  how  long  you  expect  to  stay. 

In  case  of  a  visit  without  invitation,  you 
should  always  write  to  inform  even  a  near 
relative  or  very  intimate  friend  of  your  in- 
tended visit,  and  the  time  you  expect  to  arrive. 

Among  the  leading  duties  of  the  host  or 
hostess  may  be  named  the  following :  See 
that  everything  has  been  prepared  for  the 
comfort  of  the  guests.  Anticipate  their 
bodily  wants  as  much  as  possible.  Direct 
that  some  servant  shall  go  to  their  rooms 
twice  a  day  and  ascertain  whether  anything 
is  desired,  and  whether  any  assistance  can 
be  rendered.  Arrange  so  that  they  can  be 
provided  with  cold  or  warm  baths,  as  they 
may  prefer,  every  morning.  See  that  coarse 
towels  or  bath-sheets  are  within  their  reach. 
Have  a  can  of  hot  water  taken  to  each  room 
at  the  hours  of  dressing.  A  pitcher  of  iced 
water  and  a  glass  on  a  tray  should  be  placed 
in  the  bedrooms  at  night. 

Entertaining  Quests. 

Do  not  bore  visitors  by  constantly  trying 
to  amuse  them.     After  means  of  amusement 


have  been  provided,  let  it  be  optional  with 
them  as  to  whether  they  avail  themselves  of 
these  or  not.  Permit  your  visitors  to  enjoy 
the  liberty  of  solitude  and  quiet  if  they 
prefer.  Any  apparent  effort  to  entertain  is 
always  bad  form.  The  every- day  life  of  a 
family  should  not  be  interfered  with  by  the 
arrival  of  guests. 

Visitors  should  conform  as  much  as 
possible  to  the  habits  and  customs  of  the 
household.  They  should  be  moderate  in 
their  demands  for  personal  attendance. 
They  should  not  carry  their  moods  into  the 
drawing-room  or  to  the  table,  and,  whether 
they  are  bored  or  not,  should  be  ready  to  con- 
tribute as  much  as  is  in  their  power  to  make 
an  atmosphere  of  pleasure.  If  the  above 
involves  too  much  self-sacrifice,  then  an 
invitation  to  visit  should  not  be  accepted. 

In  case  a  lady  guest  is  expected,  some 
gentleman  of  the  family  should  meet  her  at 
the  train,  or  other  place  of  expected  arrival, 
look  after  her  baggage,  and  make  all  ar- 
rangements requisite  to  enable  her  to  reach 
your  house  without  delay  or  discomfort. 

Bidding  Quests  Adieu. 

While  it  is  not  wise  to  disarrange  the 
regular  routine  of  a  household  on  account 
of  the  arrival  of  a  guest,  a  reasonable  time 
should  be  devoted  to  the  entertainment  of 
the  visitor.  Receptions,  excursions,  etc., 
may  be  provided  for,  the  places  of  note  in 
the  vicinity  shown,  and  pleasant  acquaint- 
ences  visited  or  invited  to  call.  The  guest, 
on  departure,  should  be  accompanied  to  cars 
or  boat,  and  cordially  taken  leave  of  on  the 
departure  of  the  conveyance. 

L,adies  or  gentlemen  of  true  courtesy 
will  treat  with  kindness  or  politeness  the 
servants  of  the  family  visited,  and  may  rea- 
sonably remember  with  some  gratuity  those 
by  whom  they  have  been  served.  Simple 
presents  may  also  with  propriety  be  made 
to  the  children  of  the  family.  Costly  or 
lavish  gifts,  however,  are  not  in  order,  and 
have  the  ill  effect  of  placing  your  enter- 
tainers under  an  obligation  for  which  they 
may  not  mentally  thank  you. 

Do  not  outdress  the  members  of  the 
family  in  which  you  are  a  guest,  especially 
in  attending  an  entertainment  or  place  of 

I  amusement  with  them. 

73 


22 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


Enter  heartily  into  the  plans  that  are 
made  for  your  entertainment  or  amusement. 
You  should  never  permit  your  host  or 
hostess  to  feel  that  he  or  she  has  disappointed 
you  while  seeking  to  add  to  your  enjoyment. 

Upon  returning  home  after  a  visit,  write 
immediately  to  your  host  or  hostess,  an- 
nouncing 3^our  safe  arrival ;  and  be  careful 
to  send  kind  messages  to  each  member  of 
the  family,  mentioning  all  by  name. 

Engraved  or  Printed  Cards. 

The  extent  to  which  the  use  of  visiting 
cards  is  sometimes  extended  furnishes  oc- 
casion to  some,  unused  to  polite  society,  to 
ridicule  what  they  call  "  pasteboard  polite- 
ness," and  yet  these  paper  representatives  of 
our  personality  are  exceedingly  useful 
things ;  indespensible,  indeed,  to  the  full  dis- 
charge of  social  obligations. 

In  the  selection  of  cards  several  things 
are  to  be  considered  ;  style,  size,  color,  and 
character  of  writing.  As  for  color,  it  should 
always  be  pure  white.  The  size  and  shape 
are  regulated  by  the  prevailing  fashion,  but 
any  attempt  at  display,  such  as  fancy  de- 
signs, gilt  borders,  odd  shapes,  etc.,  are 
considered  vulgar  by  well-bred  people. 

The  most  tasteful  card  is  an  engraved 
one.  The  printed  card  comes  next,  then 
the  written  card.  The  fashion  as  to  letters 
changes,  but  a  plain  script  or  old  English 
text,  well  engraved,  is  alwaj'S  neat  and  in 
good  taste.  In  case  the  card  is  written,  it 
should  be  done  in  pencil  rather  than  in  ink, 
thus  suggesting  that  its  use  is  a  matter  of 
accident. 

The  proper  size  for  a  gentleman  is 
smaller  and  more  oblong  in  shape  than  that 
ordinarily  used  by  ladies.  If  he  have  no 
title,  "  Mr."  should  precede  the  name.  A 
lady's  card  should  have  the  word  "  Mrs."  or 
"  Miss  "  prefixed  to  her  name.  The  eldest 
daughter  of  a  family  needs  "Miss"  only 
before  the  family  name.  The  younger 
daughters  need  the  christain  names  also. 

The  titles  properly  placed  on  cards  are 
those  of  army  and  navy  officers,  physicians, 
judges,  and  ministers  of  the  gospel,  but 
neither  militia  nor  any  other  complimentary 
titles  are  allowable. 

Ladies  now  usually  have  the  entire 
name — with     the    prefix    of    "Miss"     or 


"  Mrs."  engraved  on  their  cards,  as  "  Mrs. 
John  Morris  Eames,"  "  Miss  Edith  Lloyd 
Richardson." 

Custom  sanctions  the  engraving  of  the 
address  on  all  visiting  cards,  and  some 
ladies  have  the  reception  day  engraved  in 
the  left-hand  corner.  In  some  cities  there 
is  one  exception  to  this  rule.  A  young 
lady,  during  her  first  winter  in  society,  does 
not  use  a  separate  visiting  card,  but  has  her 
name  engraved  on  the  card  of  her  mother  or 
chaperon. 

A  single  gentleman,  if  he  prefers,  can 
have  his  club  address  engraved  on  his  card, 
instead  of  the  number  of  his  residence. 

A  widow  can  use  on  her  cards  either  her 
own  or  her  husband's  name,  as  choice  may 
dictate  ;  though  she  has  legally  no  right  to 
retain  the  latter,  custom  sanctions  it. 

Husband  and  wife  must  have  st?parate 
visiting  cards.  It  is  no  longer  the  fashion 
to  have  the  two  names  printed  together,  as 
formerly. 

Rules  for  Leaving  Cards. 

In  making  the  first  call  of  the  season,  a 
lady  leaves  with  her  own,  her  husband's 
card,  and  also  those  of  her  sons  and 
daughters.  After  a  dinner  party,  or  other 
special  entertainment,  a  lady  leaves  her 
husband's  card  with  her  own. 

A  married  lady,  in  calling  upon  another 
married  lady,  should  leave  one  of  her  own 
cards  and  two  of  her  husband's — one  of  the 
latter  being  for  the  wife  and  one  for  the 
husband.  If  the  lady  called  on  has  a 
daughter  in  society,  the  visitor  should  leave 
two  of  her  own  cards  and  three  of  her  hus- 
band's. If  there  be  another  lady  in  the 
house  besides  the  hostess  two  cards  each  of 
wife  and  husband  should  be  left.  When 
calling  on  a  mother  and  daughters,  a  lady 
should  leave  two  cards. 

When  paying  a  first  call  to  several  ladies 
— not  mother  and  daughters — a  card  should 
be  left  for  each.  When  calling  on  the  guest 
of  a  house,  a  card  should  be  left  for  the 
hostess  also,  even  if  she  is  a  stranger  to  the 
visitor. 

When  calling  at  a  hotel,  it  is  allowable, 

and  even  desirable,  to  write  the  name  of  the 

person  for  whom  the  visit  is  intended  upon 

the  card,  to  avoid  the  chance  of  mistakes; 

74 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


23 


but  this  should  never  be  done  at  a  private 
residence.  Cards  should  be  left  or  sent  on 
the  day  of  a  reception,  if  illness,  a  death  in 
the  family ,  or  any  other  cause  prevents  the 
acceptance  of  the  invitation. 

Cards  should  not  be  turned  down  at  the 
corners,  nor  bent  over  at  one  end — the  fash- 
ion is  now  out  of  date. 

In  sending  a  first  invitation  to  a  person 
on  whom  the  hostess  has  never  called,  cards 
should  be  enclosed  with  the  invitation  ;  but, 
if  possible,  a  call  should  precede  a  first 
invitation. 

After  a  proper  interval  of  time,  cards  of 
condolence  may  be  acknowledged  (by  send- 
ing mourning  cards  inclosed  in  an  envelope) . 

No  lady  should  use  on  her  cards  a  sug- 
gestion of  her  husband's  profession  or  titles 
of  honor,  such  as  "  Mrs.  General  Brown," 
"Mrs.  Dr.  Smith,"  etc.  Nor  should  she 
be  addressed  in  this  manner  in  conversation. 

In  case  a  person  is  going  away,  and  likely 
to  be  absent  for  a  length  of  time,  it  is  proper 
to  write  p.  p.  c.  on  his  or  her  card,  and  mail 
the  same  to  acquaintances.  The  letters  thus 
used  signify  ' '  pour  prendre  congS, ' '  which 
translated  from  the  French  means  "  to  take 
leave."  Some  write  the  English  words  out 
in  full.  Upon  returning  home  your  friends 
must  first  call  upon  you. 

If  death -occurs  in  any  household  where 
one  is  in  the  habit  of  visiting,  it  is  proper  to 
leave  cards  upon  the  family  within  a  month 
after. 

When  a  gentleman  calls  after  receiving 
hospitality,  he  should  leave  cards  for  all  the 


ladies  of  the  family  and  one  for  the  gentle^ 
man  representing  the  head  of  the  house, 
whether  young  or  old. 

When  a  lady  is  paying  merely  forma] 
visits  she  need  not  necessarily  ask  whether 
the  lady  upon  whom  she  is  calling  is  at 
home,  but  can  leave  cards  simply,  unless 
she  is  under  obligation  for  some  courtesy, 
in  which  case  she  must  ask  whether  the 
lady  can  receive  her. 

It  is  better  to  leave  cards  in  the  hall 
when  entering  an  afternoon  reception  or  tea, 
as  the  hostess  might  otherwise  not  remember 
your  presence,  and  a  card  left  in  person 
would  afterwards  remind  her  that  she  was 
your  debtor  for  a  visit — for  if  you  attend  an 
afternoon  reception  it  is  equivalent  to  a  call. 

If  you  receive  cards  for  a  series  of  "at 
homes,"  and  for  some  good  reason  cannot 
accept  the  invitation,  send  your  card  on  the 
last  day  named. 

A  card  left  for  you  during  your  illness 
should  be  answered  by  a  call  as  soon  as 
your  recovery  will  permit. 

Should  you  send  a  card  to  a  person  who 
is  ill,  the  bearer  should  always  make  a  ver- 
bal inquiry  as  to  your  friend's  condition  of 
health. 

In  making  calls  upon  an  intimate  friend 
it  is  not  necessary  to  send  your  card  in. 
The  simple  announcement  of  your  name  is 
sufiicient.  The  use  of  a  card  always  has  an 
air  of  formality  about  it.  Where  persons 
are  on  cordial  terms,  and  are  visiting  back 
and  forth  frequently,  a  card  can  very  well 
be  dispensed  with. 


V.     BALLS  AND  EVENING  PARTIES 


It  is  in  the  evening  party  that  society 
puts  on  its  gayest  aspect,  and  is  on  its  best 
behavior.  Here  everything  is  regulated  by 
a  strict  code  of  observance,  any  departure 
from  which  opens  one  to  critical  remark. 
It  is  necessary,  therefore,  that  the  etiquette 
of  the  ball-room  should  be  fully  understood 
by  all  who  claim  admission  to  society. 

These  entertainments  always  include  danc- 
ing and  a  supper.  If  large,  they  are  called 
balls;  if  small,  simply  dances  or  parties. 
Balls  are  of  two  kinds,  public  and  private, 
but  there  is  no  essential  difference  between 
the  etiquette  required  on  the  two  occasions. 


As  regards  the  giving  of  private  parties 
or  balls,  the  rule  is,  that  ball-goers  should 
make  one  return  during  the  season.  In 
doing  so,  it  is  in  good  taste  to  restrict  the 
number  of  invitations  as  far  as  social  obli- 
gations will  permit,  that  the  guests  may  not 
be  overcrowded,  and  the  unpleasantness  of 
the  "crush"  may  be  avoided.  To  gain 
this  desirable  end,  however,  it  is  always 
safe  to  make  the  invitations  in  excess  of  the 
number  desired,  as  some  are  sure  to  fail  to 
come.  One  third  more  than  the  room  will 
comfortably  hold  may  usually  be  safely 
asked.     And  experience   shows   that  more 


175 


24 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


gentlemen  than  ladies  should  be  invited,  in 
order  to  secure  an  equal  number  of  dancers 
of  both  sexes. 

Invitations  may  be  sent  out  from  two  to 
three  weeks  before  the  time  fixed  for  the 
party.  Less  than  two  weeks  is  usually  con- 
sidered too  short  notice. 

The  hour  for  balls  has,  unfortunately, 
been  made  very  late  by  the  absolute  dictum 
of  fashion.  Unless  specially  indicated  on 
the  invitation,  a  hostess  cannot  hope  to  as- 
semble her  guests  before  half-past  ten,  and 
in  large  cities  the  rooms  are  often  not  filled 
till  an  hour  later. 

Subscription  Dances. 

In  most  of  the  large  cities  several  series 
of  dances  are  arranged  by  certain  leaders  in 
the  social  world  to  which  people  are  invited 
to  subscribe.  Each  subscriber  is  usually 
entitled  to  a  number  of  invitations  for  dis- 
tribution, though  in  some  instances  the 
price  of  the  subscription  is  small,  and  only 
permits  one  person  to  take  advantage  of 
each. 

The  subscription  balls  take  place  in 
some  public  ball-room,  as  a  rule.  In  New 
York,  for  instance,  at  Delmonico's. 

Several  ladies  are  selected  to  form  the 
reception  committee,  and  they  stand  in  one 
of  the  outer  rooms,  bowing  to  the  guests  as 
they  enter.  On  such  occasions,  no  one 
shakes  hands  ;  the  ladies  courtesy,  and  the 
gentlemen  bow. 

No  unmarried  lady  should  go  to  one  of 
these  balls,  or  to  any  large  party,  without  a 
chaperon,  and  invitations  should  be  sent  to 
an  elder  member  of  her  family,  in  order 
that  she  need  not  look  outside  for  proper 
attendance. 

In  the  West  and  South  it  is  customary 
for  gentlemen  to  take  unmarried  ladies  to 
evening  entertainments,  but  in  the  East, 
and  in  the  best  city  society  generally,  such 
a  thing  would  be  considered  the  greatest 
breach  of  decorum.  At  a  small  dance  in 
a  private  house  a  young  lady  may  dispense 
with  the  services  of  a  chaperon,  if  desired, 
but  she  should  be  escorted  to  and  from  the 
house  by  a  servant  or  relative. 

A  good  floor  is  essential  to  the  enjoy- 
ment of  dancing  ;  when  the  carpet  is  taken 
up,  care  should  be  used  that  no  roughness 


of  surface  is  presented.  Some  ladies  have 
their  dancing-floors  carefully  polished  with 
beeswax  and  a  brush.  A  crumb-cloth  or 
linen  diaper,  thoroughly  well  stretched  over 
a  carpet,  is  the  next  best  thing  to  a  polished 
floor. 

The  question  of  music  is  important.  If 
it  is  a  large  ball,  four  musicians  is  the  least 
number  that  should  be  engaged — piano, 
cornet  or  flute,  violin,  and  violoncello.  In 
small  assemblies  the  violin  and  piano  are 
sufficient,  or,  on  occasion,  the  piano  alone. 
In  such  a  case  a  chance  pianist  should  not 
be  depended  upon,  but  a  professional  one  be 
engaged . 

The  orchestra  should  occupy  what  is 
considered  the  top  of  the  room.  In  cases 
where  it  is  not  convenient  to  adhere  to  this 
rule,  the  end  farthest  from  the  door  is  usu- 
ally chosen.  The  position  of  the  orchestra 
needs  to  be  considered  by  the  dancers,  so 
that,  in  quadrilles,  their  movements  may  be 
regulated  thereby. 

The  Dressing  Room. 

A  cloak-room  for  ladies  must  be  pro- 
vided, with  maids  to  receive  shawls  and 
cloaks  and  to  render  such  other  assistance 
as  may  be  required.  It  should  contain  sev- 
eral looking-glasses,  and  a  supply  of  such 
articles  as  may  be  required  in  a  lady's 
toilette. 

A  hat  room  for  gentlemen  must  not  be 
forgotten,  with  valets  to  wait  upon  them. 
It  is  best  to  provide  checks  for  articles  be- 
longing to  ladies  and  gentlemen  left  in 
charge  of  the  attendants.  Where  checks 
cannot  be  had,  tickets  numbered  in  dupli- 
cate may  be  used — one  being  given  to  the 
lady  or  gentleman,  and  the  other  pinned  to 
the  coat  or  cloak.  By  this  means  the  prop- 
erty of  each  guest  is  identified,  and  con- 
fusion at  the  time  of  departure  is  prevented. 

Small  fees  of  twenty-five  or  fifty  cents 
are  often  given  to  servants  in  the  dressing- 
room  at  a  public  ball,  but  never  in  private 
houses  in  this  country,  though  the  custom 
is  common  in  England.  Waiters  should  be 
on  hand  at  supper  to  serve  the  meal,  as  the 
fashion  of  the  gentlemen  waiting  upon  the 
ladies  is  rapidly  becoming  obsolete. 

In  large  cities,  an  awning  should  always 
be  extended  from  the  front  door  to  the  curb- 


176 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


25 


stone,  on  the  occasion  of  a  reception  or 
other  entertainment,  as  ladies  do  not  like  to 
step  out  of  their  carriages  in  light  or  elab- 
orate dresses  without  some  protection  from 
the  weather,  and  from  the  gaze  of  a  curious 
crowd. 

The  Question  of  Toilette. 

lyadies  may  wear  as  handsome  dresses  as 
they  wish,  and  make  their  fullest  display  of 
jewelry.  As  everything  about  a  ball-room 
should  be  light  and  attractive,  it  is  in  order 
for  elderly  ladies,  who  do  not  dance,  to  wear 
dresses  more  youthful  in  style  and  color 
than  would  be  suitable  for  dinner,  concert, 
,  or  opera.  For  those  who  dance,  silk  dresses 
are,  as  a  rule,  objectionable. 

Flowers  are  the  proper  ornaments  for  the 
head  and  dress.  French  ladies  select  them 
with  reference  to  the  season  ;  but  this  is  not 
insisted  on  in  this  country,  and  summer 
flowers  may  be  worn  at  Christmas. 

Ladies  in  deep  mourning  should  not 
dance,  even  if  they  permit  themselves  to  at- 
tend a  ball.  Should  they  do  so,  black  and 
scarlet  or  violet  is  the  proper  v/ear.  Where 
the  mourning  is  sufficiently  slight  for  danc- 
ing to  be  seemly,  white,  with  mauve,  violet 
or  black  trimmings,  flounces,  etc.,  is  proper. 

White  gloves  befit  the  ball-room  ;  in 
mourning  they  may  be  sewn  with  black. 
They  should  be  faultless  as  to  fit,  and  never 
be  removed  from  the  hands  in  the  ball- 
room. 

The  attire  in  which  a  gentleman  can 
present  himself  in  a  ball-room  is  so  rigor- 
ously defined,  and  admits  of  so  little  variety, 
that  it  can  be  described  in  a  few  words. 

He  must  wear  a  black  dress  coat,  black 
trousers,  and  a  black  waistcoat ;  a  white 
necktie,  white  kid  gloves,  and  patent  leather 
boots.  The  waistcoat  should  be  low,  so  as 
to  disclose  an  ample  shirt-front,  fine  and 
delicately  plaited  ;  it  is  better  not  embroid- 
ered, but  small  gold  studs  may  be  used 
with  effect.  Excess  of  jewelry  is  to  be 
avoided.  The  necktie  should  be  of  a  wash- 
ing texture,  not  silk,  and  not  set  off  with 
embroidery. 

In  the  Ball=Room. 

In  a  private  ball  or  party,  guests,  on  en- 
tering, should  at  once  proceed  to  pay  their 


respects  to  the  lady  of  the  house,  who  will 
remain  near  the  door  to  greet  them  as  they 
appear.  Some  of  the  gentlemen  of  the 
house  should  be  near,  to  introduce  to  the 
lady  any  of  their  friends  on  their  arrival. 
The  daughters  of  the  household  are  not 
required  to  assist  in  the  ceremony  of  recep- 
tion. 

The  fashion  of  carrying  numerous  bou- 
quets to  a  ball  is  rapidly  going  out  of  exist- 
ence, and  many  ladies  refuse  to  take  any 
flowers  into  a  ball-room,  the  old  custom 
having  given  rise  to  much  vulgar  rivalry 
and  ostentatious  display. 

At  public  balls  cards  giving  the  order 
of  dances  are  provided,  on  which  gentlemen 
can  write  their  names  opposite  the  numbers 
of  the  dances  for  which  they  have  been  ac- 
cepted by  the  lady  holding  the  card.  In 
England  such  cards  are  in  general  use,  but 
they  are  rarely  provided  at  private  balls  in 
this  country. 

From  eighteen  to  twenty  dances  is  a 
convenient  number  to  arrange  for,  with 
supper  as  a  suitable  break  at  about  the 
middle  of  the  entertainment.  A  ball  should 
begin  with  a  march,  followed  in  succession 
by  a  quadrille  and  a  waltz.  Then  waltzes 
and  quadrilles  follow  as  may  be  arranged. 

The  cotillon  or  German,  now  so  widely 
known,  fills  up  the  larger  part  of  the  even- 
ing, and  begins,  as  a  rule,  immediately  after 
supper.  In  a  private  house,  the  gentleman 
who  has  been  invited  to  lead  the  German 
must  ask  the  unmarried  daughter  of  the 
family  to  dance  with  him,  or  the  married 
daughter  if  so  indicated  as  the  family's 
choice.  At  the  more  general  dances  or 
large  balls  a  young  married  lady  is  usually 
the  one  selected  to  dance  with  the  leader. 

It  is  quite  the  custom  for  a  gentleman  to 
engage  a  partner  for  the  cotillon  before  the 
evening  of  the  dance,  and"  in  this  case,  pro- 
vided he  can  afford  it,  he  usually  sends  her 
a  bouquet  of  flowers.  But  should  the  lady 
request  him  not  to  remember  her  in  this  way 
her  wishes  should  be  respected. 

Any  gentleman,  provided  his  acquaint- 
ance with  the  lady  be  sufficiently  intimate  to 
warrant  him  in  doing  so,  has  the  privilege 
of  sending  her  ofierings  of  flowers  whenever 
he  cares  to  do  so.  In  such  a  case  he  should 
go  to  a  florist,  leave  an  order  for  the  kind  of 


177 


96 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


bouquet  he  wishes  sent,  and  also  his  card 
in  an  envelope  addressed  to  the  lady,  which 
envelope  should  accompany  the  flowers. 

Formerly,  at  public  balls  a  master  of 
ceremonies  was  considered  always  neces- 
sary, but  this  official  is  no  longer  provided, 
the  management  being  now  entrusted  to  a 
committee  of  arrangements,  who  are  distin- 
guished by  wearing  ribbons  in  the  button- 
hole, or  rosettes.  The  members  of  the 
committee  superintend  the  dances,  provide 
partners  for  those  who  need  them,  and 
introduce  gentlemen  to  ladies  with  whom 
they  desire  to  dance. 

In  private  balls,  the  lady  of  the  house  or 
«ome  member  of  the  family  attends  to  intro- 
ductions, and  when  she  has  grown  daughters 
they  may  employ  themselves  in  arranging 
sets,  introducing  partners,  and  the  like,  de- 
sisting from  dancing  themselves  while  any 
of  the  lady  guests  remain  unprovided  with 
partners. 

Requests  to  Dance. 

The  former  fashion  of  saying,  "May  I 
have  the  pleasure  of  dancing  with  you?" 
has  now  given  place  to  a  less  formal  method , 
and  a  young  man  may  accost  a  young  lady 
with,  "  I  hope  you  have  kept  a  dance  for 
me,"  "  Won't  you  spare  me  a  dance?"  or 
"Shall  we  take  a  turn?"  A  young  lady 
does  not  answer,  "  I  shall  be  very  happy," 
a  reply  which  has  disappeared  with  ' '  May  I 
have  the  pleasure?"  but  may  say,  "  I  am 
afraid  I  have  none  to  spare  except  number 
ten,  a  quadrille,"  or  "  I  am  engaged  for  the 
next  five  dances;  but  I'll  give  you  one,  if 
you  come  for  it  a  little  later,"  or  something 
similarly  appropriate. 

Another  form  of  invitation  is,  "Are  you 
engaged  for  this  dance?"  An  unsophisti- 
cated girl  may  answer  by  saying,  "  I  do  not 
think  I  am,"  while  perfectly  aware  that  she 
is  not,  and  the  young  men  are  quick  to  see 
through  the  evasion  by  which  the  maiden 
seeks  to  conceal  her  lack  of  partners.  A 
clever  girl  will  escape  from  the  dilemma  by 
such  an  answer,  as  "  I  am  glad  to  say  I  am 
not,"  thus  inferring  that  she  might  have 
been  engaged  had  she  desired,  but  preferred 
waiting  for  the  chance  of  dancing  with 
him  — a  suggestion  flattering  to  the  gentle- 
man. 

i78 


Ball-room  small  talk  is  not  expected  to 
rise  above  the  common-place.  The  ma- 
terials supplied  by  the  entertainment  itself 
are  very  limited — the  band,  the  flowers,  the 
floor,  the  supper.  Dull  people  usually  ring 
the  changes  on  these  themes.  For  instance, 
"  How  well  the  band  plays  !  "  "  What  a 
pleasant  ball-room  this  is  !  "  "  Don't  you 
think  the  floor  slippery  !  "  "  How  warm  it 
is  growing  !  ",  etc.,  etc.  Such  phrases,  by 
incessant  repetition,  grow  wearisome,  and 
those  who  can  master  any  more  novel 
phrases  should  make  an  earnest  effort  to 
vary  the  monotony.  Nothing  very  serious 
or  profound  is  in  place,  but  almost  any  one 
can  escape  from  such  trite  subjects  as  these. 

In  the  Dance. 

When  a  lady  has  accepted  an  invitation 
to  dance,  the  gentleman  offers  her  his  right 
arm,  and  leads  her  to  her  place  on  the  floor. 

A  slight  knowledge  of  the  figure  is  suffi- 
cient to  enable  a  gentleman  to  move  through 
a  quadrille,  if  he  is  easy  and  unembarrassed, 
and  his  manners  are  courteous  ;  but  to  ask 
a  lady  to  join  you  in  a  waltz,  or  other  round 
dance,  in  which  you  are  not  proficient,  is 
an  offence  not  easily  forgiven,  as  it  may  ex- 
pose the  lady  to  awkward  embrassment. 

It  is  inadvisable  to  dance  in  every  set,  as 
the  exercise  is  unpleasantly  heating  and 
fatiguing.  Never  forget  an  engagement — 
it  is  an  offence  that  does  not  admit  of  ex- 
cuse, except  when  a  lady  commits  it ;  and 
then  a  gentleman  is  bound  to  take  her  at 
her  word  without  a  murmur.  It  is  quite 
probable,  however,  that  he  will  remember 
it  against  her,  and  take  care  not  to  be  again 
victimized  by  her. 

At  the  end  of  a  quadrille  the  gentleman 
should  offer  his  right  arm  to  the  lady,  and 
walk  half  round  the  room  with  her.  He 
should  inquire  if  she  will  take  refreshments, 
and,  if  she  replies  in  the  affirmative,  conduct 
her  to  the  room  devoted  to  that  purpose.  It 
is  good  taste  on  the  part  of  the  lady  not  to 
detain  her  cavalier  here  so  long  as  to  prevent 
him  from  fulfilling  his  next  engagement, 
since  he  cannot  return  to  the  ball-room  un- 
til she  is  ready  to  be  escorted  thither,  and 
resigned  to  her  chaperon  or  friends,  or  to 
the  partner  who  claims  her  promise  for  the 
next  dance. 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


27 


Taking  Supper. 

The  gentleman  who  dances  with  a  lady 
in  the  last  dance  before  supper,  conducts 
her  to  the  suppei-rooni,  attends  on  her 
while  there,  and  escorts  her  back  to  the  ball- 
room. At  a  private  ball,  the  lady  of  the 
house  may  ask  a  gentleman  to  take  a  lady 
down  to  supper,  and  he  is  bound  to  comply, 
and  to  treat  her  with  the  politest  attention . 

In  either  case  a  gentleman  will  not  sup 
with  the  ladies,  but  stand  by  and  attend  to 
them,  permitting  himself  a  glass  of  wine 
with  them ;  but  taking  a  subsequent  op- 
portunity to  secure  his  own  refreshment. 

Refreshments  must  be  provided  for  the 
guests  during  the  evening  ;  and,  as  nothing 
should  be  handed  round  in  the  ball-room,  a 
refreshment-room  is  necessary.  This  should, 
if  possible,  be  on  the  same  floor  as  the  ball- 
room, because  it  is  not  only  inconvenient, 
but  dangerous,  for  ladies  heated  by  the 
dance  to  encounter  the  draught  of  the  stair- 
cases. 

In  the  refreshment-room,  lemonade,  tea 
and  coffee,  ices,  biscuits,  wafers,  cakes  and 
cracker  bonbons  should  be  provided.  Some 
persons  add  wine  to  the  list. 

The  supper  table  should  be  set  in  a 
separate  room.  It  is  usually  opened  to  the 
guests  about  12.30  o'clock,  and  may  con- 
sist of  hot  and  cold  dishes,  including  oysters, 
bouillon,  game,  croquettes,  filet  of  beef, 
salads,  pates,  ices,  cakes,  sweets,  jellies, 
fruits,  and  champagne,  punch,  lemonade 
and  mineral  waters,  or  such  combinations  or 
variations  of  these  viands  as  may  be  decided 
upon.  Small  tables  are  frequently  used  at 
balls,  so  that  four  or  six  people  may  sit  at 


one  table  and  eat  their  supper  comfortably 
in  courses. 

In  private  parties  the  character  of  the 
supper  will,  of  course,  depend  upon  the 
taste  and  resources  of  those  who  give  the 
ball.  To  order  it  in  from  a  good  caterer  is 
the  simplest  plan,  but  may  often  prove  too 
expensive.  If  provided  at  home,  let  it  be 
done  on  a  liberal,  but  not  too  profuse  a 
scale. 

After  the  Ball.  ; 

Assemblies  of  this  kind  should  be  left 
quietly.  If  the  party  is  small,  it  is  permis- 
sible to  bow  to  the  hostess  ;  but  at  a  large 
ball  this  is  not  necessary,  unless  you  meet 
her  on  your  way  from  the  room.  It  is  im- 
portant to  avoid  making  your  departure 
felt  as  a  suggestion  for  breaking  up  the 
party,  it  being  very  impolite  to  indicate  by 
your  movements  or  manner  that,  in  your 
opinion,  the  entertainment  has  been  kept  up 
long  enough. 

Finally,  let  no  gentleman  presume  on  a 
ball-room  introduction.  It  is  given  with  r 
view  to  one  dance  only,  and  will  certainly 
not  warrant  a  gentleman  in  going  further 
than  asking  a  lady  to  dance  a  second  time. 
Out  of  the  ball-room  such  an  introduction 
has  no  force  whatever. 

If  those  who  have  danced  together  meet 
next  day  in  the  street,  or  the  park,  the 
gentleman  must  not  venture  to  bow,  unless 
the  lady  chooses  to  favor  him  with  some 
mark  of  her  recognition.  If  he  does,  he 
must  not  expect  any  acknowledgment  of  his 
salutation. 

After  a  private  ball  it  is  etiquette  to  call 
at  the  house  during  the  following  week. 


VI.     BREAKFAST,   LUNCHEON   AND  TEA 


The  hour  at  which  breakfast  shall  be 
served  is  governed  entirely  by  the  habits  and 
tastes  of  the  family.  Where  it  is  very  late, 
it  is  often  preceded  by  the  sending  of  coffee 
or  tea,  rolls  and  eggs  in  some  form,  to  the 
bed  rooms,  the  family,  in  such  a  case,  not 
coming  down  to  a  general  meal  till  about 
noon.  Breakfast,  however,  is  served  in  the 
same  manner  whether  the  hour  be  early  or 
late,  and  this  meal  should  always  be  quite 
free  fuom  formality. 


A  tea  and  coffee  tray  should  be  placed  in 
front  of  the  mistress  of  the  house.  It  is 
quite  within  the  rules  of  breakfast  etiquette 
for  people  to  wait  on  themselves  and  to  help 
each  other,  and  as  the  bread,  small  dishes, 
etc.,  are  frequently  on  the  side  table,  this  is 
a  very  convenient  fashion.  One  servant  is 
enough  in  the  dining-room  in  the  morning, 
even  though  a  larger  number  may  be  retained . 
Ordinary  courses  for  breakfast  consist  of 

'  three  or  four,  such  as  hominy  or  oatmeal 

19 


28 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


first,  then  eggs,  meat,  or  ham,  and  the 
chief  portion  of  the  food,  followed  by  grid- 
dle-cakes and  finally  fruit.  Toast  should 
be  freshly  made,  and  sent  up  from  time  to 
time  while  the  breakfast  goes  on .  It  should  be 
always  hot,  as  cold  toast  is  never  palatable. 

Luncheon. 

In  imitation  of  the  French,  the  meal 
which  in  our  country  is  usually  called 
"  lunch  "  or  "  luncheon,"  is  sometimes  de- 
signated as  "  breakfast."  It  may  either  be 
"ormal,  resembling  a  dinner,  or  informal, 
like  the  breakfast  just  described.  It  is  ser- 
ved between  12.30  and  1.30,  and  the  hostess 
may  make  it  as  simple  or  as  elegant  as 
she  chooses.  A  formal  luncheon  party, 
however,  differs  little,  if  at  all,  from  a  din- 
ner. If  the  occasion  is  a  ceremonious  one, 
the  table  is  set  in  the  same  manner  as  for 
a  dinner,  and  the  dishes  are  handed  by  the 
servants  ;  but  the  guests  enter  separately, 
instead  of  arm  in  arm. 

At  a  large  lunch-party  either  one  long 
table,  or  several  little  ones,  may  be  used. 
If  the  latter  method  is  preferred,  take  care 
that  the  servants  have  ample  room  to  pass 
I  etween  them.  Kach  plate  should  have  be- 
side it  two  knives,  two  forks,  one  or  two 
spoons,  and  a  water-goblet. 

The  first  course  should  consist  of  fruit 
or  of  raw  oysters,  or  of  bouillon  or  chicken 
consomme,  served  in  cups  set  on  plates,  and 
provided  with  teaspoons. 

This  course  is  followed  by  an  entree, 
chops  with  one  or  two  vegetables,  game  or 
chicken,  and  salad,  with  sweets,  candies, 
fruits,  etc.  Black  coffee  is  usually  served 
after  luncheon. 

In  an  informal  lunch,  if  the  hostess  pre- 
fers, the  sweets  may  be  placed  on  the  table 
in  advance  ;  but  vegetables  must  be  served 
from  the  side-board,  and  the  chops,  cold 
meats,  etc.,  should  be  served  by  the  hostess. 
Yet  at  such  luncheons  vegetables  are  fre- 
quently omitted,  and  in  the  selection  of 
dishes  the  greatest  latitude  of  choice  is  per- 
missible. Among  those  most  frequently 
served  may  be  named  oysters,  croquettes, 
French  chops,  cold  meats,  beefsteak,  fish, 
omelettes  and  salads. 

At  formal  luncheons  a  bouquet  for  each 
lady    is   sometimes    provided,    they    being 


grouped  as  an  ornament  in  the  centre  of  the 
table,  and  distributed  after  the  meal.  The 
custom  is  a  pretty  one,  and  worth  encour- 
aging. Occasionally,  also,  some  pretty 
trifle  is  given  to  each  guest  as  a  memento 
of  the  occasion,  but  there  is  no  obligation 
for  this  to  be  done.    «^ 

Guests  should  be  punctual  in  attendance 
on  such  an  occasion,  or  send  word  promptly 
if  prevented,  by  some  sudden  occurrence, 
from  coming.  Either  a  w^hite  or  figured 
table-cloth  may  be  used,  but  it  must  be  one 
that  will  wash. 

These  are  rules  which  etiquette  and  good 
breeding  demand  shall  be  observed,  not 
alone  at  luncheon,  but  at  all  meals.  The 
table  is  the  social  centre,  and  it  is  essential 
that  those  who  gather  around  it  shall  con- 
form themselves  to  the  most  approved  rules 
of  good  society.  A  knowledge  of  table  eti- 
quette is  very  desirable  to  possess,  since 
many  regard  it  as  one  of  the  surest  tests  of 
good  breeding.  It  is  at  the  dinner  table, 
however,  that  strict  rules  of  observance  be- 
come indispensible.  There  is  miich  more 
freedom  allowable  at  the  earlier  meals  of  the 
da}^  and  a  digest  of  table  rules  may  be  left 
till  we  come  to  speak  of  the  principal  meal. 

It  may  be  said,  however,  in  regard  to 
conversation  at  the  lunch  table,  that  both 
etiquette  and  good  breeding  forbid  indul- 
gence in  gossip,  particularly  in  any  sense 
ill  natured,  and  nothing  can  be  more  ill-bred 
than  to  make,  after  the  meal,  carping  criti- 
cisms on  the  hostess  and  the  entertainment 
she  has  provided. 

Teas  and  Afternoon  Receptions. 

These  are  among  the  most  informal  en- 
tertainments given,  and  the  difference  be- 
tween a  large  afternoon  tea  and  an  afternoon 
reception  is  little  more  than  the  name, 
though  the  latter  is  perhaps  a  shade  more 
formal.  They  frequently  take  place  at 
the  same  hour,  and  the  character  of  the 
invitations  and  entertainments  differ  very 
little. 

The  day  and  hour  of  an  afternoon  tea 
may  be  written  on  a  visiting  card.  For  an 
afternoon  reception,  an  "  At  Home  "  card  is 
used.  No  answer  need  be  sent  to  such  an 
invitation,  unless  one  is  particularly  re- 
quested, which  is  not  ordinarily  the  rule. 


180 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


29 


It  is  necessary  to  speak  to  the  host  and 
hostess  immediately  upon  entering  the  room, 
but  owing  to  the  constantly  moving  crowd 
it  is  not  essential  that  guests  should  again 
address  the  host  and  hostess  when  they  are 
about  to  leave. 

The  length  of  stay  can  vary  from  five 
minutes  to  an  hour  at  an  afternoon  recep- 
tion, but  at  an  evening  reception  the  time  is 
usually  more  extended. 

Only  simple  refreshments  should  be 
served  at  an  afternoon  tea.  Thin  slices  of 
bread  and  butter,  sandwiches,  fancy  biscuit 
or  cake,  tea,  coffee,  or  chocolate,  ice  cream ^ 
and  bouillon  are  offered.  Punch  and  lemon- 
ade— but  no  wine  of  any  kind — may  be 
added  if  desired  ;  and  also  salted  almonds, 
cakes,  candies,  and  other  dainty  trifles. 
English  breakfast  tea  is  now  preferred, 
served  with  cream  and  white  sugar,  or 
slices  of  lemon  for  those  who  like  tea  made 
in  the  Russian  style. 

At  an  afternoon  reception  the  table  may 
1)6  supplied  with  oyster-salads,  pates,  boned 
Lurkey,  ice  cream,  coffee,  and  bonbons. 

For  a  reception  music  is  desirable,  as  it 
adds  greater  brilliancy  to  the  entertainment. 

The  hostess  should  shake  hands  with 
her  guests  and  receive  them  cordially  ;  any 
formality  is  out  of  place  on  an  informal 
occasion. 

If  the  number  of  guests  is  small,  the 
hostess  should  walk  about  the  room,  talking 
with  her  visitors  ;  if  large,  she  should  re- 
main near  the  door,  and  have  the  aid  of 
other  ladies,  who  should  entertain  the 
guests,  ask  them  to  take  refreshments,  and 
make  introductions  when  necessary. 

At  a  large  and  elegant  afternoon  recep- 
tion the  windows  may  be  darkened,  the  gas 
lighted,  and  musicians  employed,  if  the 
hostess  desires. 

What  is  known  as  a  high  tea  is  a  meal 
taking  the  place  of  a  dinner,  at  which  hot 
meats,  cakes,  warm  breads,  preserves  and 
other  sweets  are  served.  Such  teas  are  more 
popular  in  the  country  than  in  town. 

At  the  informal  tea,  of  which  it  is  the 
custom  to  partake  at  about  five  o'clock 
in  many  households,  a  tray  is  brought  in  to 
the  mistress  of  the  house,  and  placed  before 
her  on  a  small  table.  This  tray  should  con- 
tain a  tea-service,  cups,  saucers,  etc.     The 


lady  herself  makes  the  tea,  pours  it  out,  and 
passes  it  to  the  members  of  the  family  or  the 
visitors  who  may  chance  to  be  present.  The 
servant  brings  in  thin  slices  of  bread  and 
butter,  cake,  and,  perhaps,  English  muffins, 
which  are  usually  served  with  the  cup  of  tea 
at  this  hour. 

Suppers. 

Supper,  as  a  rule,  is  similar  to  dinner, 
and  unless  served  at  a  ball  or  as  a  part  of 
some  other  entertainment  has  very  much 
the  character  of  that  meal .  A  fter  the  theatre 
or  opera,  people  frequently  indulge  in  some 
refreshment  which  may  or  may  not  be  dig- 
nified by  the  name  of  supper. 

Picnics. 

If  one  person  gives  a  picnic  he  must 
provide  everything,  the  modes  of  convey- 
ance to  the  place  selected,  the  refreshments, 
entertainment,  etc.,  but  if  several  join  in 
this  the  labor  and  expense  should  be  equally 
divided. 

The  refreshments  should  consist  chiefly 
of  cold  dishes,  such  as  meats,  boned  turkey, 
sandwiches,  salads,  cakes,  jellies,  pies,  etc., 
with  lemonade,  or  such  other  drinks  as  may 
seem  desirable.  Hot  dishes  are  sometimes 
served,  prepared  at  a  neighboring  house. 

Picnics  are  often  so  arranged  that  each 
lady  attending  furnishes  a  dish  of  some 
kind.  In  this  way  all  the  refreshments  can 
be  provided  without  any  difficulty. 

Sometimes  a  wooden  platform  is  erected, 
and  dancing  is  the  chief  amusement  after 
eating. 

A  picnic  generally  lasts  from  about  noon 
until  twilight,  and  the  best  season  of  the 
year  for  such  an  entertainment  is  when  it  is 
pleasant  to  be  out  of  doors. 

Sufficient  china,  glass,  etc.,  should  al- 
ways be  provided,  though  they  should  be  of 
a  plain  and  inexpensive  kind,  for  fear  of 
breakage. 

Theatre  Parties. 

A  dinner,  either  at  home  or  at  a  restau- 
rant, is  frequently  followed  by  a  visit  to  the 
theatre  or  the  opera.  In  such  a  case  it  is 
proper  for  the  one  who  gives  the  theatre 
party  to  invite  an  equal  number  of  ladies 
and  gentlemen,  a  proper  chaperon,  of  course. 


30 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


being  provided.  If  the  party  are  to  dine 
together  before  going  to  the  play,  half-past 
six  is  usually  the  hour  appointed,  whether 
the  dinner  is  to  take  place  in  a  private  house 
or  in  a  restaurant.  If  there  is  to  be  no  din- 
ner, some  house  is  selected  where  the  guests 
assemble  at  a  proper  hour  to  reach  the 
theatre  in  time. 

It  is  customary,  when  you  invite  married 
people  or  gentlemen  to  the  opera,  to  send 
them  their  tickets  so  that  they  may  join  you 
at  the  opera  house,  unless  for  some  reason 
you  wish  to  go  with  them .  Unmarried  ladies 
are  usually  asked  to  dine  by  their  friends 
and  go  with  them  from  their  home.  Sup- 
pers are  rarely  given  after  the  opera,  owing 
to  the  lateness  of  the  hour.  If  the  party 
did  not  dine  together,  however,  it  is  custo- 
mary for  the  host  or  hostess  to  give  the 
guests  a  supper  somewhere  after  the  play. 

It  is  the  duty  of  the  chaperon  to  see  the 
unmarried  ladies  safely  home. 

Chaperons. 

The  word  chaperon  is  French,  and  signi- 
fies a  married  lady,  or  one  of  sufficient  age 
and  dignity  to  accompany  an  unmarried 
one  with  propriety  to  any  reputable  enter- 
tainment. 

Her  services  may  be  called  upon,   not 


alone  for  theatres,  operas,  concerts,  balls, 
or  other  evening  entertainments,  but  are  de- 
manded on  many  occasions  during  the  day. 
No  party  of  any  kind  which  includes  both 
sexes  should  be  formed  unless  some  married 
lady  has  charge  of  it. 

The  greatest  courtesy  and  deference  to  a 
chaperon  should  always  be  manifested  by 
the  young  ladies  and  gentlemen-  under  her 
charge.  Indifferent  civility  in  this  respect 
is  the  height  of  ill-breeding. 

When  an  older  lady  passes  a  younger 
one  in  a  ball-room  and  bows,  the  younger 
one  should  never  remain  seated  when  re- 
turning such  a  mark  of  recognition. 

In  leaving  a  room  simultaneously, 
younger  and  unmarried  ladies  should  always 
stand  aside  until  the  older  or  married  ones 
have  passed  out. 

The  chaperon  should  behave  with 
dignity,  while  being  as  genial  and  agree- 
able to  the  younger  members  of  her  party 
as  possible.  She  should  see  that  the  un- 
married ladies  she  has  charge  of  reach 
home  safely,  and  never  leave  them  to  a 
chance  escort,  no  matter  how  tired  she  may 
be.  One  can  never  be  too  sure  but  that 
young  girls  may  be  exposed  to  unpleasant 
situations,  if  left  without  a  companion  of 
judgment  and  experience. 


VII.     BANQUETS  AND   DINNERS 


The  formal  dinner  is  one  of  the  most  im- 
Dortant  occasions  in  social  life,  the  test  to 
vhich  the  degree  of  acquaintance  of  anyone 
with  the  customs  of  good  society  is  often 
put,    the  trial  scene  of  good  breeding  and 
familiarity   with    polite    observance.     The 
"ules  to  be  observed  at  table  are  so  many 
and  minute  that  they  require  careful  study, 
and  many  who  pass  muster  on  less  formal 
occasions,  may  sadly  err  in  some  of  the  in- 
dispensible  detailsof  the  etiquette  of  the  table. 
In^  ordinary,  informal  dinners,  indeed, 
this    strictness   of  observance   is    not    de- 
manded,  and   much  more  freedom  is  per- 
missible, the  home  feeling  here  taking  the 
place  of  ceremonious  rules.     Yet  even  here 
it  is  important  to  avoid  falling  into  too  great 
a  latitude  of  action,  since  habits  formed  at 
home    are    very    apt    to    accompany    one 
abroad. 


Choosing  Guests. 

In  giving  a  dinner  party,  the  first  and 
often  the  most  important  question  is,  whom 
to  invite.  How  many  to  invite  folio v\'S  as  a 
problem  of  little  less  importance.  For  a 
pleasant  dinner  the  number  should  be  small 
rather  than  large,  eight  or  ten  being  a  fair 
average.  An  ^even  number  seems  prefer- 
able, though  this  is  not  a  matter  of  essential 
consideration. 

Of  course,  large  dinners  are  often  a 
necessity,  when  given  for  business,  family, 
or  other  reasons  ;  and  when  display  is  the 
leading  motive  in  giving  the  dinner,  the 
number  may  be  as  great  as  the  resources  of 
the  establishment  will  permit.  But  if  com- 
fort and  the  pleasure  of  social  intercourse 
are  the  objects  proposed,  the  number  will 
need  to  be  limited. 


book:  of  etiquette 


31 


As  to  who  should  be  invited,  we  have 
here  a  question  that  has  sadly  troubled  many 
generations  of  hosts  and  hostesses.  To 
bring  together  an  incongruous  mass  of 
people  is  simply  to  invite  failure.  Guests 
should  be  selected  with  strict  attention  to  a 
sense  of  fitness  ;  and  equal  attention  should 
be  given  to  placing  those  of  similar  tastes 
together  at  table.  The  ease  of  conversation 
and  the  enjoyment  of  the  dinner  depend 
largely  on  this.  Clever  conversationalists 
are  always  most  desirable  guests.  These 
are  not  always  to  be  had,  but  even  a  single 
fluent  talker  often  acts  as  a  leaven  that  will 
rouse  to  speech  a  whole  company  of  ordi- 
narily quiet  people.  The  invitation  should 
be  sent  a  week  or  two  before  the  time  fixed, 
or  as  much  as  three  weeks  if  the  affair  is  to 
be  one  of  great  formality. 

Duties  of  the  Hostess. 

A  dinner  party  is  regarded  by  many  per- 
sons as  the  most  formal  and,  at  the  same 
time,  the  most  elegant  mode  of  entertaining 
guests — it  is  certainly  the  one  which  most 
severely  taxes  the  resources  of  the  hostess. 
Any  woman  not  positively  ill-bred  can  fill 
the  position  of  hostess  at  a  ball ;  but  it  re- 
quires tact,  readiness,  and  a  thorough  knowl- 
edge of  society  to  make  a  dinner  party,  in 
the  ordinary  parlance,  "  go  off  well."  No 
matter  how  exquisite  the  china,  glass,  floral 
decorations,  silver,  and  linen  may  be,  if  the 
hostess  is  a  dull  or  awkward  woman,  the 
banquet  will  not  be  a  success,  for  a  proper 
selection  of  guests  and  the  power  of  drawing 
them  into  gay  and  brilliant  conversation  are 
quite  as  needful  as  any  of  the  material 
accessories. 

The  hostess  should  call  into  requisition 
all  her  tact  and  knowledge  of  society  to  set 
her  guests  at  ease.  No  accident  must  dis- 
turb her.  If  her  rarest  china  or  most  preci- 
ous bit  of  glass  is  broken,  she  must  appear 
not  to  notice  it.  If  any  one  has  had  the 
misfortune  to  arrive  late,  she  must  welcome 
him  or  her  cordially,  though  her  duties  to 
-  her  other  guests  have  not  permitted  her  to 
wait  in  the  drawing-room  more  than  the  fif- 
teen minutes  permitted  by  etiquette  to  the 
tardy.  She  must  think  only  of  encouraging 
the  timid,  inducing  the  taciturn  to  talk,  and 
enabling  all  to  contribute  their  best  conver- 


sational powers  to  the  general  fund  of  enter- 
tainment. The  same  rules,  of  course,  apply 
to  the  host. 

Ihe  arrangements  for  dinner  should  be 
much  the  same  whether  the  party  be  large 
or  small,  though,  of  course,  the  larger  num- 
ber will  require  a  few  extra  servants,  and 
may  render  advisable  some  extra  courses. 
It  should  be  remembered,  however,  by 
givers  of  dinners  that  too  many  courses  are 
objectionable,  and  that  in  the  best  society  of 
to-day  fewer  dishes  are  offered  than  was  for- 
merly the  custom. 

The  hour  for  dinner  should  be  fixed 
to  suit  the  convenience  of  the  guests  and 
will  vary  in  city  and  country.  In  the  city 
it  should  be  no  earlier  than  seven  nor  later 
than  eight  o'clock,  and  the  probability  must 
be  borne  in  mind  that  the  guests  will  not  all 
assemble  till  at  least  fifteen  minutes  after  the 
hour  named  in  the  invitations.  Tardiness 
of  this  kind  was  formerly  considered  rude, 
but  has  now  become  so  common  as  to  be 
expected  and  allowed  for. 

Arranging  the  Table. 

In  the  centre  of  the  table  should  be  either 
a  vase  of  flowers  or  a  dish  of  fruit.  Ferns 
make  a  very  attractive  effect.  There  should 
be  small  dishes  of  candies,  figs,  prunes, 
crystallized  ginger,  etc.  Olives  or  radishes, 
salted  almonds,  etc.,  should  beset  in  pretty 
little  dishes  on  the  table.  These,  with  the 
silver,  glass  carafes  of  water,  and  wine  de- 
canters, complete  the  decoration  of  the  table. 

Everything  else  should  be  served  from 
the  side-table,  and  passed  to  each  guest. 
This  saves  great  confusion,  and  contributes 
more  than  anything  else  to  the  comfort  of 
the  meal.  It  is  important  also  to  have 
warm  food  served  on  hot  plates.  Cold 
plates  will  spoil  the  best  dinner  ever 
cooked. 

The  table  cloth  should  be  of  the  finest 
quality ;  and  it  is  well  for  those  whose 
means  do  not  permit  them  to  follow  fash- 
ion's every  caprice,  to  remember  that  fine 
white  table  linen  is  always  in  place.  If 
colored  materials  are  used,  the  latest  edict 
of  fashion  forbids  the  employment  of  any 
stuffs  that  will  not  wash. 

Decorations  should  always  be  arranged 
so  that  they  will  not  prevent  the  guests 
83 


32 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


from  seeing  one  another.  The  preference 
is  now  for  low  dishes  of  flowers  of  delicate 
perfume.  Those  of  strong  fragrance  should 
be  avoided,  as  in  a  warm  room  their  odor 
may  become  oppressive. 

An  ostentatious  display  of  flowers,  plate, 
or  ornaments  of  any  kind  is  not  in  the  best 
taste  ;  nothing  being  more  vulgar  than  a 
seeming  desire  to  impress  your  friends  with 
a  show  of  wealth. 

Placing  the  Table=Ware. 

On  the  right  of  the  space  left  for  the 
plate  place  two  knives  and  a  spoon.  The 
present  mode  is  to  use  silver  knives  as  well 
as  forks  for  fish,  and  in  that  case  this  knife 
is  placed  with  the  others.  On  the  left  three 
forks — that  for  sweets  smaller  than  the 
others.  At  times  other  knives,  forks,  and 
spoons  are  provided,  but  it  is  better  to  bring 
these  in  as  needed  for  the  separate  courses, 

The  glasses  are  placed  on  the  right. 
These  should  be  at  least  four  in  number. 
As  it  is  a  great  breach  of  decorum ,  as  well 
as  a  sign  of  ignorance,  to  drink  one  sort  of 
wine  from  a  glass  intended  for  another,  we 
shall  describe  the  glasses  commonly  in  use. 
The  tall  glass,  or  that  with  the  shallow, 
saucer-like  top,  is  for  champagne  ;  the  green 
for  hock,  chablis  and  similar  wines  ;  the 
large,  ample  glass  for  claret  and  burgundy  ; 
the  round,  full-shaped  glass  for  port,  and 
the  smaller  glass  for  sherry. 

It  must  not  be  understood,  however, 
that  wines  are  essential  to  a  high-toned 
dinner.  Some  of  our  very  best  families,  the 
acknowledged  leaders  of  fashion,  never  put 
champagne  or  any  other  kind  of  wine  on 
their  tables. 

Each  guest  must  be  provided  with  a 
table-napkin,  which,  in  laying  the  table, 
should  occupy  the  place  reserved  for  the 
plate. 

There  are  many  different  and  various 
ingenious  ways  of  treating  the  dinner-nap- 
kin. The  simplest  is  to  leave  it  in  the  folds 
in  which  it  comes  from  the  laundress. 

Bread  should  be  cut  in  thin  slices,  and 
laid  on  a  napkin  at  the  left  of  each  plate. 

The  room  may  be  lighted  with  either 
white  or  colored  candles  or  lamp.  Many 
persons  prefer  to  have  the  light  fall  in  part 
from  side  brackets  or  sconces  on  the  wall . 


Dress. 

As  regards  dress  for  a  dinner  party,  it 
must  be  governed  in  great  measure  by  the 
character  of  the  dinner,  whether  friendly 
and  informal,  or  an  occasion  of  leading  im- 
portance and  marked  formalitj^  For  the 
latter,  lady  and  gentleman  alike  should 
dress  as  elaborately  as  for  a  ball,  though 
ball  dress  and  dinner  dress  should  by  no 
means  be  the  same.  The  occasions  differ 
widely,  and  the  fitness  of  things  needs  to  be 
strictly  observed. 

As  to  the  character  of  the  lady's  dress, 
that  must  depend  on  her  own  taste.  It  will 
suffice  to  state  here  that  full  dress  is  re- 
quisite and  that  jewerly maybe  freely  worn. 
For  an  ordinary,  small  dinner,  however,  a 
much  less  elaborate  toilette  is  sufficient,  and 
may  prove  more  comfortable. 

The  gentleman  will  wear  the  ordinary 
evening  dress  already  described.  He  may 
wear  more  jewelry  than  is  in  good  taste 
earlier  in  the  day. 

Entering  the  Dining  Room. 

If  the  dinner  is  to  be  a  large  and  formal 
one,  a  gentleman  should  receive  an  envelope 
before  entering  the  drawing-room  in  which 
is  a  card  bearing  the  name  of  the  lady  he  is 
desired  to  take  in  to  dinner.  If  he  does  not 
know  the  lady  he  should  ask  the  hostess  to 
present  him  to  her.  At  small  and  informal 
dinners  this  is  not  necessary,  the  hostess 
simply  mentioning  to  the  gentleman  the 
name  of  the  lady  he  is  wished  to  escort  to 
the  table.  In  fact,  though  still  in  use,  the 
custom  above  named  is  going  out  of  fashion, 
an  assignment  in  the  drawing-room  being 
considered  suflBcient. 

A  card  is  generally  laid  at  each  place, 
giving  the  name  of  the  guest  who  is  to  oc- 
cupy it.  This  custom  is  also  unnecessary 
at  a  small  dinner.  Menus,  or  bills  of  fare, 
are  often  placed  before  the  guests  at  large 
dinners,  but  rarely  at  small  ones. 

When  the  guests  have  all  arrived  and 
the  dinner  is  ready,  the  butler  or  waitress 
should  enter  the  drawing-room  and  politely 
say  to  the  lad)'-  of  the  house,  "  Dinner  is 
served ' '  ;  then  he  or  she  should  return  to 
the  dining-room  and  stand  behind  the 
hostess  until  she  is  seated. 


184 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


33 


The  gentleman  of  the  house  must  offer 
his  right  arm  to  the  lady  who  has  been 
selected  as  the  important  guest  of  the  even- 
ing, and  then  proceed  to  the  table,  placing 
her  on  his  right,  he  generally  taking  the 
lower  end  of  the  table.  The  other  guests 
follow,  each  gentleman  with  the  lady  selected 
for  him  ;  and  finally  the  hostess  enters  with 
the  gentleman  whom  she  wishes  to  honor, 
he  taking  a  seat  at  her  right. 

The  remaining  guests,  in  case  their  seats 
are  not  indicated  by  cards,  will  take  the 
seats  assigned  to  them  by  the  host  or  hostess. 
In  case  no  assignment  is  made,  it  should  be 
remembered  that  questions  of  precedence, 
formerly  so  much  considered,  are  growing 
to  be  of  minor  importance,  particularly  in 
this  country. 

Every  place  at  a  friend's  table  is  equally 
a  place  of  honor,  and  should  be  equally 
agreeable,  so  that,  in  the  best  circles,  it  is 
becoming  the  custom  for  the  guests  to  sit  in 
the  order  in  which  they  enter  the  room.  A 
little  care  should,  however,  be  taken  that  a 
judicious  distribution  of  the  guests,  accord- 
ing to  their  tastes,  accomplishments,  terms 
of  intimacy,  etc,  is  secured.  Ladies  sit  on 
the  right  of  gentlemen. 

As  soon  as  seated  all  the  guests  remove 
their  gloves,  and,  taking  the  napkins  from 
the  table,  open  them  and  spread  th;im  on 
their  knees.  The  napkin  is  not  to  be  tucked 
into  the  waistcoat  or  pinned  on  to  the  front 
of  the  dress.  It  will  usually  contain  a  roll ; 
that  is  placed  on  the  left  side  of  the  plate. 

The  Dinner- 
It  is  not  easy  to  lay  down  any  fixed  rule 
for  the  character  of  the  dinner.  That  must 
be  governed  by  the  season  and  the  taste  and 
resources  of  the  host.  However  humble 
the  pretensions  of  the  dinner,  it  should 
never  consist  of  less  than  three  courses, 
namely ,  soup  or  fish ,  a  j  oint  (which ,  in  a  small 
dinner,  may  be  accompanied  by  poultry  or 
game)  and  pastry.  Cheese  with  salad  fol- 
lows as  a  matter  of  course.  Dessert  succeeds. 
The  number  of  servants  necessary  will 
depend,  of  course,  on  the  number  of  guests. 
Three  will  be  enough  for  a  party  of  ten  or 
twelve  persons.  On  their  training  and  efii- 
cient  service  the  success  of  the  dinner  will 
largely  depend. 

iq  E  I 


What  is  above  said  about  courses  applies, 
of  course,  to  a  very  simple  meal.  In  those 
of  more  pretension  the  courses  may  vary 
considerably  in  number  and  character, 
though  custom  lays  down  certain  fixed  rule* 
for  the  succession  of  viands.  For  an  ordi- 
nary dinner  the  following  will  sufl&ce  as  an 
example. 

Dinner  Courses. 

The  dinner  may  begin  with  oysters  on 
the  half  shell,  five  or  six  for  each  person. 
If  not  the  season  for  oysters,  small  clams 
are  frequently  served  in  the  same  way. 
These  should  be  very  cold,  and  the  clams 
are  better  if  surrounded  by  cracked  ice.  A 
piece  of  lemon  should  be  in  the  centre  of 
each  plate,  and  pepper  and  salt  be  passed 
with  this  course. 

Soup  follows.  Hither  one  or  two  may 
be  served — a  white  and  a  clear,  or  a  white 
and  a  brown  soup  ;  but  never  serve  two 
kinds  one  after  the  other. 

Follow  the  soup  with  fish.  At  the  best 
tables  you  will  find  a  silver  fish-knife  as  well 
as  fork  ;  if  not,  eat  with  a  fork  in  the  right 
hand  and  a  small  piece  of  bread  in  the  left. 

When  there  are  two  kinds  of  fish,  the 
larger  one — say  the  turbot — is  placed  before 
the  host ;  the  lady  taking  that  which  is  less 
calculated  to  fatigue  in  the  helping.  When 
fish  sauce  is  handed,  put  it  on  the  side  of 
your  plate.  There  are  certain  sauces  appro- 
priate to  each  kind  of  fish — as  lobster  sauce 
with  turbot,  shrimp  or  caper  with  salmon, 
oyster  with  cod,  and  so  on. 

The  entrees  follow,  being  ordinarily 
served  in  covered  silver  side  dishes.  They 
consist  of  sweetbreads,  pates,  cutlets,  and 
made-dishes  generally.  It  is  not  customary 
to  do  more  than  taste  one  or  two  of  these. 
Too  much  attention  to  them  is  apt  to  unfit 
one  for  enjoying  the  rest  of  the  dinner.  In 
eating  of  these  dishes  the  fork  alone,  where 
possible,  should  be  used. 

The  raeats  and  vegetables  follow.  Some 
vegetables,  such  as  asparagus,  sweet  corn, 
or  maccaroni,  can  be  offered  by  themselves  ; 
but  hostesses  should  beware  of  making  the 
meal  tiresome  by  a  needless  number  of 
courses. 

It  is  not  allowable,  however,  to  serve 
more  than  two  vegetables  with  one  course, 


34 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


nor   to  offer   an^^thing  except   potatoes  or 
potato  salad  with  the  fish. 

The  roast  meats  are  placed  about  the 
table  in  this  way  :  The  largest  and  most 
important,  say  haunch  of  venison,  before 
the  host ;  one  before  the  lady  of  the  house, 
and  such  dishes  as  tongue  or  ham  before 
particular  guests,  who  occupy  seats  at  points 
where  carving-knives  and  forks  are  placed  in 
readiness. 

Carving  is  an  important  accomplishment, 
and  one  that  every  gentleman  should  seek 
to  acquire.  A  man  should  be  able  to  carve 
a  joint  or  a  bird  easily  and  dexterously,  but 
facility  can  only  be  acquired  by  practice, 
which  it  is  important  to  have.  It  is  cus- 
tomary, however,  to  have  the  joint  carved 
off  the  table,  put  back  as  before  carving, 
and  served. 

It  is  hardly  necessary  to  say  that  knife 
and  fork  are  used  in  the  eating  of  meat, 
poultry,  or  game  ;  and  it  seems  equally  un- 
necessary to  say  that  the  purpose  of  the 
knife  is  simply  to  cut  the  food.  Under  no 
circumstances  must  it  be  used  to  convey  it 
to  the  mouth.  Vegetables  are  eaten  with  a 
fork.  A  spoon  is  rarely  necessary,  and  a 
knife  comes  into  use  only  in  such  cases  as 
cutting  off  the  heads  of  asparagus  and  the 
like. 

If  considered  desirable,  a  course  of  vege- 
tables may  follow  that  of  meat, — asparagus, 
cauliflower,  artichokes,  baked  tomatoes,  or 
some  similar  dish  being  served. 

Game  follows.  Salad  may  be  served 
either  with  the  game  or  as  a  separate  course. 
In  the  latter  c  ase  serve  with  it  cheese  and 
bread  and  butter.  The  bread  can  be  cut 
very  thin  and  carefully  buttered,  or  the 
butter  and  bread  can  be  served  separately. 
If  preferred,  the  cheese  can  be  served  as  a 
separate  course. 

Follow  the  cheese  and  salad  with  the 
sweet  dishes  and  ices,  then  serve  the  fruit, 
and  lastly  the  bonbons.  Coffee  may  be 
ser\^ed  in  the  drawing-room,  when  the 
courses  have  not  occupied  too  much  time, 
or  at  the  table,  according  to  the  preference 
of  the  hostess. 

Black  coffee,  which  should  be  made  very 
strong  and  clear,  must  be  served  in  very 
small  cups,  with  tiny  coffee-spoons. 


After  the  Courses. 

Everything  except  the  lights  and  orna- 
ments should  be  removed  from  the  table 
before  the  dessert  is  served,  the  crumbs  being 
brushed  off  with  a  crumb-scraper  or  a  nap- 
kin, a  clean  one  of  course. 

Finger  bowls,  set  on  handsome  china  or 
glass  plates,  with  a  fruit  napkin  or  embroid- 
ered doily  between,  should  be  placed  on  the 
table  for  the  fruit  course.  The  dainty  em- 
broidered doilies,  however,  must  never  bo 
used,  and  substantial  fruit  napkins  should 
be  supplied  when  any  fruits  that  stain  badly 
are  served. 

Where  there  is  more  than  one  servant,  a 
second  waiter  carrying  the  proper  vegetables 
should  follow  the  first,  who  passes  the  meat 
or  fish.  The  lady  next  the  host  should  first 
be  helped,  and  the  others  in  turn,  after 
which  the  gentlemen  should  be  served. 
But  when  there  is  only  one  servant,  the 
guests  may  be  helped  in  the  order  in  which 
they  sit,  beginning  with  the  lady  at  the 
host's  right,  then  passing  to  the  one  at  his 
left,  leaving  the  host  himself  to  be  served  last. 

When  the  servants  have  placed  the  des- 
sert on  the  table  and  have  handed  the  fruit 
and  sweets  once  round,  they  retire.  Any 
further  service  which  the  ladies  may  require 
can  be  given  by  the  gentlemen,  who  will,  of 
course,  exert  themselves  to  see  that  their 
neighbors  are  properly  attended  to. 

Retiring  from  the  Table. 

Then  the  hostess  bows  to  the  lady  of  most 
distinction  present,  and  all  the  ladies  rise  and 
prepare  to  retire.  The  gentleman  nearest 
the  door  opens  it,  and  holds  it  open  for  them. 
The  hostess  is  the  last  to  go  out.  While 
they  are  going  all  the  gentlemen  rise,  and 
remain  standing  until  they  are  gone.  It 
would  not,  however,  be  a  violation  of  eti- 
quette for  the  gentlemen  to  accompany  the 
ladies  to  the  drawing-room  at  once,  and 
what  is  here  said  applies  principally  to  for- 
mal dinners,  and  to  families  in  which  the 
gentlemen  are  accustomed  to  conclude  the 
meal  with  cigars  and  wine. 

Tea  and  coffee  are  dispensed  by  the  lady 
of  the  house  in  the  drawing-room.     This  is 
her  special  province.     It  should  be  accom- 
panied by  a  few  wafers  ;  a  plate  of  very  thin 
86 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


35 


rolled  bread-and-butter  and  a  few  biscuits 
of  the  lightest  description  may  be  added. 
One  cup  of  tea  or  coffee  only  should  be 
taken  ;  and  certainly  no  one  can  need  to  be 
told  that  it  inust  not  be  poured  into  the 
saucer  to  cool.  It  will  be  handed  round 
the  room  by  the  servants. 

In  the  drawing-room  there  should  be  a 
little  music  to  give  relief  to  the  conversa- 
■  tion. 

At  a  plain  family  dinner,  at  which  one 
or  two  guests  are  present,  more  devolves  on 
tbe  host  and  hostess,  and  less  on  the  servants. 

General  Hints. 

You  should  sit  at  a  convenient  distance 
from  the  table,  and  sit  upright.  Do  not 
lean  back,  or  tilt  your  chair,  or  stoop  for- 
ward towards  the  table. 

When  grace  is  said  at  the  table,  observe 
the  most  respectful  attention,  reverently  in- 
clining the  head. 

Do  not  be  impatient  to  be  served. 
Should  you  need  anything  at  the  hands  of 
the  servants,  do  not  order  them  to  serve 
you,  but  request  them  politely,  in  a  low, 
distinct  tone,  adding,  "if  you  please."  In 
declining  a  viand  offered  by  them,  say, 
"  Not  any,  I  thank  you,"  etc. 

Do  not  hesitate  to  take  the  last  piece  of 
bread  or  cake  in  a  dish  handed  to  you. 
Your  host  has  more  for  other  guests.  When 
a  piate  containing  food  is  handed  to  you, 
set  it  down  before  you,  and  do  not  pass  it  to 
your  neighbor. 

Wines. 

As  regards  the  use  of  wines  at  dinner, 
the  following  rules  will  suffice.  They 
should  be  served  in  the  following  succession . 

First. — Sherry,  which  must  be  very 
cold  and  decantered.  This  to  be  passed  with 
the  soup.  If  a  white  wine  is  to  be  served,  it 
should  be  given  with  the  oysters  and  also 
very  cold.     This  must  not  be  decantered. 

Second. — Champagne,  which  should  be 
packed  in  ice  several  hours  before  it  is  to  be 
used.  Serve  it  in  the  bottle  with  a  napkin 
held  round  it  to  absorb  the  moisture. 
Champagne  is  passed  with  the  meat. 

Third. — Claret,  which  must  be  decant- 
ered and  warm,  and  served  with  the  game 
and  salad. 


is; 


Fourth. — Madeira,  also  decantered  but 
of  its  natural  temperature  and  passed  with 
the  dessert. 

Mineral  waters,  such  as  apoUinaris,  can 
be  passed  at  dinner,  as  some  prefer  a  min- 
eral to  natural  water.  As  has  been  already 
said,  a  glass  suitable  for  each  variety  of 
wine  is  placed  on  the  table.  This  is  not  the 
case  with  the  Madeira  glasses,  which  are 
kept  on  a  side-table,  and  brought  to  the 
table  after  the  glasses  previously  used  have 
been  removed  and  before  sweets  are  served. 

After  dinner,  when  the  ladies  have  left 
the  room  and  the  gentlemen  are  preparing 
to  smoke,  coffee,  without  milk,  is  served 
and  carried  to  the  ladies  in  whichever  room 
they  may  be. 

It  may  be  said  in  conclusion  that  the 
custom  of  wine  drinking  during  dinner,  and 
of  drinking  and  smoking  afterwards,  is  no 
longer  of  so  ordinary  application  as  former- 
ly. While  still  generally  retained  in  the 
case  of  large  and  formal  dinners,  it  is  fre- 
quently omitted  in  small,  and  commonly  in 
family  dinners,  being  considered  by  many  a 
custom  ' '  better  kept  in  the  breach  than  the 
observance." 

Dinners  at  Restaurants. 

When  a  dinner  is  given  at  a  public 
restaurant,  a  table  can  be  reserved  in  the 
public  dining-room ,  or  a  private  room  can 
be  engaged.  It  is  usual  to  order  the  dinner 
beforehand,  so  that  there  will  be  no  needless 
delay  in  serving  it  when  the  guests  arrive. 

If  a  lady  gives  the  dinner  it  is  better  for  the 
guests  to  meet  at  her  house,  so  that  they  may 
all  go  together  to  the  restaurant,  but  if  an 
unmarried  gentleman  is  the  host  be  must 
appoint  an  hour  for  the  party  to  meet  him 
in  the  vestibule  of  the  restaurant,  and  the 
lady  who  has  consented  to  chaperon  his  din- 
ner m.ust  be  there  very  punctually,  in  order 
to  spare  any  unmarried  lady  the  annoyance 
of  arriving  alone  at  a  public  place. 

The  style  of  the  dinner  must  rest  with 
the  taste  of  the  host  or  hostess,  but  it  should 
resemble  as  nearly  as  possible  a  dinner  in  a 
private  house,  both  in  table  appointments, 
variety  of  dishes,  service,  etc. 

It  is  perfectly  admissible  for  an  unmar- 
ried lady  to  dine  at  a  restaurant,  provided 
that  she  is  properly  chaperoned. 


36 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


Lunches  and  breakfasts  are,  under  the 
above  circumstances,  governed  by  the  same 
rules  as  those  given  in  regard  to  dinners. 

Ladies  may  lunch  or  breakfast  without 
gentlemen  in  respectable  public  restaurants, 
but  two  ladies  should  if  possible  be  together, 
rather  than  that  one  should  lunch  or  break- 
fast alone. 

Of  course,  no  one  needs  to  imagine  that 
in  entertaining  a  few  friends  at  dinner  all 
this  ceremony  is  indispensible.  It  belongs 
to  occasions  where  formality  and  close  at- 
tention to  fixed  social  rules  are  considered 
neccessary,  but  there  is  an  agreeable  form 
of  informal  dinner  which  calls  for  no  man- 
ual of  observance,  in  which  the  friends  are 
taken  into  the  bosom  of  the  family  and  the 


ease  of  unfettered  home  intercourse  prevails, 
For  such  dinners  there  are  no  set  rules  ; 
every  community,  every  family,  make  their 
own  laws,  and  calmly  ignore  or  simoly 
laugh  at  the  dictates  of  fashion.  Here  soup 
maybe  omitted,  if  not  cared  for  ;  you  may 
pass  up  your  plate  to  your  host  for  a  slice 
of  beef ;  you  may  do  a  dozen  things  that  are 
quite  out  of  order  where  formality  prevails, 
and  be  as  heedless  and  happy  as  you  please. 
But  all  this  is  behind  closed  doors ;  when 
you  fall  under  fashion's  eagle  eye  no  such 
looseness  is  for  a  moment  to  be  considered  ; 
you  must  eat  and  drink  to  rule  and  measure 
or  consider  yourself  a  candidate  for  banish- 
ment. 


VIII.     COURTSHIP  AND  MARRIAGE 


Preceding  the  marriage  comes  the  court- 
ship, an  event  which,  since  the  world  began, 
has  been  one  of  vital  interest  to  man  and 
woman,  but  which  is  so  varied  in  its  inci- 
dents and  characteristics  that  no  set  rules  of 
etiquette  can  be  made  to  apply  to  it.  It 
may  suflBce  to  say  that  when  a  gentleman 
feels  such  admiration  for  a  lady  as  to  induce 
him  to  make  a  proposal  of  marriage  to  her, 
it  is  the  more  manly  and  courageous  way  to 
do  so  verbally  instead  of  in  writing.  During 
courtship  anything  that  offends  good  taste, 
or  is  conspicuous  in  the  conduct  of  a  be- 
trothed pair,  should  be  sedulously  avoided, 
— such  as  making  public  each  other's  senti- 
ments. These  concern  the  pair  alone  ;  they 
lack  interest  for  the  public  at  large,  and  eti- 
quette demands  that  they  should  be  kept 
secret. 

A  sufficient  public  announcement  of  the 
engagement  is  made  by  the  ring,  which  it  is 
usual  for  the  gentleman  to  give  the  lady,  as 
a  token  of  the  new  relation  existing  between 
them.  This  may  be  a  diamond  solitaire,  if 
the  means  of  the  gentleman  will  permit. 
Otherwise,  a  plain  gold  band  is  in  order.  It 
must  be  worn  on  the  third  finger  of  the  left 
hand. 

When  the  engagement  is  once  formally 
made,  it  may  be  made  known  by  the  young 
lady  or  her  mother  to  relatives  and  intimate 
friends.  Good  form,  however,  requires  that 
the  gentleman  should  gain  the  consent  of 


the  guardian  or  parents  of  the  lady  before 
making  his  proposal  to  herself.  This  is 
particularly  important  if  he  is  in  moderate 
circumstances  and  she  wealthy. 

The  length  of  the  engagement  must  de- 
pend largely  upon  the  wishes  of  the  parties 
most  particularly  concerned.  Of  late  years 
it  has  become  the  fashion  to  shorten  the 
time,  and  unless  the  marriage  is  likely  to 
take  place  within  six  months  it  is  better 
to  make  no  public  announcement  of  the  en- 
gagement. 

Hasty  marriages,  on  short  acquaintance, 
are  in  all  cases  to  be  avoided.  The  loving 
pair  should  grow  to  know  each  other  well 
and  intimately  before  courtship  is  allowed  to 
pass  its  preliminary  stage  of  attractive  ac- 
quaintance ;  and  many  an  unhappy  mar- 
riage has  come  from  undue  haste  in  this 
particular,  ardent  fancy  being  permitted  to 
take  the  place  of  cool  reflection  and  growing 
knowledge. 

There  is  a  ddight  in  courtship,  more- 
over, which  is  often  unwisely  abridged  by 
too  quick  a  marriage.  In  the  words  of  one 
wise  maiden,  who  was  asked  why  she  did 
not  marry  when  she  had  so  many  lovers, 
' '  Being  courted  is  too  great  a  luxury  to  be 
spoiled  by  marrying."  But  all  this  is  mat- 
ter for  which  it  is  useless  to  attempt  to  lay 
down  rules.  Men  and  maidens  have  fol- 
lowed their  own  inclinations  in  regard  to  the 
length  of  the  period  of  courtship  since 
3 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


37 


civilization  began,  and   will  probably  con- 
tinue to  do  so. 

It  is  only  when  the  engagement  has  been 
made  and  formally  announced  that  etiquette 
can  have  anything  to  do  with  the  matter. 
A  couple  once  betrothed,  and  the  betrothal 
made  public,  have  placed  themselves,  in  a 
measure,  in  the  hands  of  society,  and  must 
yield  in  some  degree  to  social  obligations,  if 
they  wish  to  avoid  invidious  comment. 

Wedding  Preliminaries. 

After  the  wedding  day  is  fixed  the  hap- 
py couple  are  especially  obliged  to  con- 
form to  the  rules  of  etiquette,  there  being 
fixed  laws  laid  down  for  every  detail  of  the 
subsequent  ceremonies.  One  thing  should 
be  borne  in  mind,  that  the  wedding  belongs 
to  the  family  of  the  bride.  It  is  their  afiair 
to  send  the  invitations,  provide  the  music, 
the  decorations,  the  wedding  breakfast,  etc.; 
the  duties  of  the  groom  being  restricted  to 
providing  the  certificate,  naming  the  clergy- 
man, and  a  few  others.  The  announcement 
of  the  engagement  is  generally  followed  by 
a  dinner  given  by  the  parents  of  the  bride, 
to  which  some  of  the  relatives  of  both  fami- 
lies are  invited .  Subsequent  dinners  are  apt 
to  be  given  by  relatives  and  intimate  friends 
of  the  engaged  couple. 

The  gentleman's  parents,  relatives,  or 
friends  call  as  speedily  as  possible  upon  the 
young  lady  and  her  parents  or  guardians. 
The  selection  of  the  wedding  day  is  usually 
left  to  the  choice  of  the  bride- elect  and  her 
mother,  and  to  their  taste  are  similarly  left 
such  details  of  the  occasion  as  the  arrange- 
ment for  the  wedding,  the  character  of  the 
trousseau,  or  bridal  outfit,  the  breakfast  or 
reception,  the  choice  of  bridesmaids,  the 
style  of  the  ceremony,  etc. 

Any  time  of  the  year  may  be  regarded 
as  suitable  for  a  wedding  to  take  place, 
though  certain  periods,  such  as  Easter  week, 
are  often  preferred.  In  Europe  there  is  a 
strange  prejudice  against  the  month  of  May. 
As  regards  the  day  of  the  week,  Wednesday 
or  Thursday  are  apt  to  be  selected  ;  while 
Friday  is  looked  upon  as  unlucky.  In  this 
country  Friday  holds  the  same  doubtful 
position,  but  any  other  day  of  the  week,  and 
any  month  of  the  year,  are  quite  in  order. 


Marriage  is  regulated  in  this  country  by 
the  laws  of  the  State,  a  license  being  re- 
quired in  some  States,  and  not  in  others. 
This  the  intending  husband  should  procure, 
he  being  accompanied  by  the  father,  guar- 
dian, or  near  relative  of  the  lady,  that  the 
requisite  information  required  by  the  law 
may  be  given. 

The  bridal  trousseau  does  not  include 
plate,  china,  furniture,  or  any  household 
ware,  but  is  restricted  to  the  bride's  attire, 
of  which  sufficient  is  usually  provided  to 
last  during  the  first  few  years  of  wedded 
life.  Too  great  a  quantity  of  wearing  ap- 
parel is  to  be  avoided,  whatever  the  wealth 
of  the  bride  or  her  family,  since  the  rapid 
changes  in  fashion  are  likely  to  make  some 
of  it  useless  before  it  can  be  worn.  The 
extent  and  character  of  the  trousseau,  of 
course,  must  be  governed  by  the  means  and 
taste  of  the  bride  and  her  family. 

Bridal  Gifts. 

The  custom  of  presenting  gifts  to  the 
bride  has  grown  until  it  has  become  much 
of  a  burden  and  something  of  a  farce,  from 
the  absolute  uselessness  of  many  of  the  arti- 
cles sent  and  the  annoying  duplication  that  is 
likely  to  take  place .  In  every  case  the  presents 
should  be  in  accordance  with  the  means  and 
probable  style  of  living  of  the  recipients, 
and  as  far  as  possible  in  harmony  with  their 
tastes  and  surroundings.  Nothing  is  more 
ill-advisedthantosend  some  gorgeous  orna- 
ment for  a  plain,  simply  furnished  house. 
Simple,  tasteful  selections,  however,  are 
rarely  out  of  place,  and  there  is  a  wide 
choice  of  articles  which  every  family  can 
use.  The  variety  is  endless,  ranging  from 
the  costliest  silver  and  jewels,  clocks,  lamps, 
fans,  odd  bits  of  furniture,  camel's  hair 
shawls,  etc.,  down  to  a  pretty  vase,  a  bit  of 
embroidery,  a  picture,  or  a  piece  of  china 
painted  by  the  hand  of  a  friend.  No  one 
should  hesitate  to  send  a  present  whose 
money  value  is  small,  such  gifts  are  often 
the  most  welcome,  and  a  present  which 
owes  its  existence  to  the  donor's  own  labor 
is  regarded  as  especially  flattering. 

Gifts  are  usually  packed  where  they  are 
bought,  and  sent  directly  from  the  shop  to 
the  bride's  house-  They  should  be  sent 
during  the  week  preceding  the  wedding,  and 


38 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


not  less  than  two  days  before  the  event.  It 
is  so  customary  to  make  an  exhibition  of 
the  presents  on  the  day  of  the  wedding  or 
the  preceding  day,  that  it  is  very  necessary 
that  they  should  arrive  in  good  time. 

The  display  of  the  wedding  presents  is  a 
point  to  be  decided  according  to  the  bride's 
wishes.  Some  people  think  it  ostentatious, 
others  devote  much  time  and  care  to  their 
arrangement,  and  it  is  undoubtedly  gratify- 
ing to  many  to  be  permitted  to  see  them. 

Onerule,  however,  \sinvariable — thebride 
must  acknowledge  every  gift  by  a  personal 
note.  It  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  the 
gifts  are  hers,  her  own  private  property, 
which  she  can  claim  from  the  hands  of  the 
sheriff,  if  misfortune  supervenes,  and  leave 
by  will  to  whom  she  elects.  Of  course, 
gifts  may  be  sent  specially  intended  for  the 
groom . 

If  people  do  not  know  what  to  send,  or 
what  the  young  couple  require,  they  should 
take  some  means  to  discover,  for  nothing  is 
more  annoying  than  to  receive  duplicate 
presents.  It  is  not  uncommon  for  soup- 
ladles,  butter-knives,  tea-urns,  and  other 
articles  of  table  use  or  house  ornament  to 
be  given  so  profusely  that  the  young  couple 
are  almost  as  well  fixed  to  set  up  a  store  as 
to  begin  housekeeping. 

It  is  customary  for  the  gentleman  to 
make  his  bride  a  present  of  jewelry  to  be 
worn  at  her  wedding,  where  his  means  will 
permit  him  to  do  so.  If  a  wealthy  man,  he 
often  presents  the  bridesmaids  with  a  sou- 
venir of  the  occasion,  a  fan,  bracelet,  ring, 
or  bouquet.  He  buys  the  wedding  ring  and 
furnishes  the  bride's  bouquet ;  but  there  his 
privilege  or  duty  ends.  The  bride's  family 
supply  the  cards,  carriages,  and  wedding 
entertainment. 

Flowers. 

The  bride's  bouquet  should  be  composed 
exclusively  of  white  flowers,  such  as  gard- 
enias, white  azaleas,  or  camellias,  with  a 
little  orange  blossom  intertwined.  It  is  the 
privilege  of  the  groomsman  to  procure  and 
present  this  to  the  bride. 

It  is  generally  considered  a  delicate  at- 
tention on  the  part  of  the  bridegroom  to 
present  a  bouquet  to  his  future  mother-in- 
law.     This  may  be  composed  of  choice  vari- 


ously colored  flowers,  whilst  those  of  the 
bridesmaids  should  be  white,  with  an  edging 
of  pale  blush  roses.  These  also  are  pre- 
sented by  the  groom. 

To  save  trouble  and  anxiety  with  regard 
to  bouquets,  it  is  the  best  plan  to  order  them 
from  some  practical  florist.  He  will  know 
exactly  what  to  send,  and  will  deliver  them 
fresh  on  the  day  of  the  marriage. 

The  Bridesmaids. 

The  bridesmaids  are  usually  selected 
from  among  the  sisters  of  the  bride,  or  her 
cousins  or  friends.  The  head -bridesmaid  is 
ordinarily  her  most  intimate  friend.  Oc- 
casionally the  sisters  of  the  bridegroom  as- 
sist as  bridesmaids,  but  the  bride's  own 
sisters  should  always  be  given  the  prefer- 
ence. 

The  number  of  the  bridesmaids,  of 
course,  must  be  governed  by  circumstances. 
Six  is  a  usual  number,  though  more  are 
frequently  selected.  An  even  number  must 
always  be  chosen. 

The  dress  of  the  bridemaids  is  usually  of 
some  light  white  material .  They  frequently 
wear  wreaths  and  veils,  but  of  a  lighter  and 
less  costly  character  than  those  of  the  bride. 
Bonnets  are  often  worn  instead  of  veils.  It 
is  desirable  for  them  all  to  be  dressed  as 
nearly  alike  as  possible. 

In  this  country  the  bridesmaids  either 
provide  their  own  dresses  or  may  accept 
them  from  the  bride. 

The  Groomsmen. 

The  number  of  groomsmen  must  corres- 
pond to  that  of  the  bridesmaids.  These 
gentlemen  have  little  to  do,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  the  first  or  principal  grooms- 
man, who  is  charged  by  the  bridegroom 
with  the  management  of  the  whole  affair, 
and  should  be  furnished  by  him  with  money 
to  pay  all  the  expenses.  He  is  usually  his 
brother  or  most  intimate  friend. 

Where  a  ring  is  used  he  should  take 
charge  of  it,  and  present  it  to  the  bride- 
groom at  the  proper  moment.  He  must 
hand  the  minister  his  fee,  and  pay  the  sex- 
ton and  other  persons  entitled  to  payment 
their  legitimate  charges. 

It  is  his  duty  to  undertake  all  the  ar- 
rangements for  his  friend  on-  ^he  eventful 
90 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


39 


day,  and  to  see  that  they  are  properly  car- 
ried out. 

The  dress  of  the  groomsmen  should  be 
similar  to  that  of  the  bridegroom,  the  dress 
worn  being  that  suitable  to  the  hour  of  the 
day,  in  the  same  fashion  as  for  any  other 
entertainment.  They  should  be  dressed  as 
nearly  alike  as  possible. 

The  Bride. 

After  the  wedding  invitations  are  issued 
the  bride  does  not  ordinarily  appear  in  pub- 
lic. On  the  morning  of  the  wedding  day 
she  usually  breakfasts  in  her  own  room,  and 
remains  there  till  the  hour  arrives  to  dress 
for  the  ceremon3^  It  is  the  privilege  of  the 
bridesmaids  to  perform  this  service. 

The  bride's  costume  is,  as  a  rule,  of 
white,  either  silk  or  satin,  or  of  material  in 
accordance  with  the  means  of  the  parties. 
A  bridal  veil  of  lace  or  of  tulle  is  usually 
worn.  The  gloves,  of  course,  should  be 
white,  and  the  shoes  of  w^hite  kid 
or  white  satin.  It  is  customary  for 
the  bride  to  make  some  slight  presents 
to  the  bridemaids  on  the  morning  of  the 
marriage.  These  should  be  simple,  it  be- 
ing borne  in  mind  that  the  gift  is  merely  to 
serve  as  a  memento  of  the  occasion,  and 
that  no  article  of  much  value  is  demanded. 

After  dressing,  the  bride  remains  in  her 
room  until  the  carriage  is  announced,  or  the 
time  has  arrived  to  descend  to  the  drawing 
room  if  it  is  to  be  a  home  wedding.  The 
bride's  carriage  is  the  last  to  leave  the 
house.  It  should  contain  but  one  occupant 
besides  herself — her  father,  or  the  person 
selected  to  give  her  away  at  the  altar. 

The  Ceremony. 

The  ushers  are  selected  by  the  gentle- 
man, though  the  lady  is  generally  consulted 
in  the  choice.  Six  is  the  number  ordinarily 
chosen,  and  their  duties  are  to  show  people  to 
seats  in  the  church,  and  to  present  the  guests 
to  the  bride  and  groom  at  the  wedding  recep- 
tion. They,  and  the  groomsmen  as  well, 
should  all  wear  boittonnitres ,  or  button-hole 
bouquets,  made  of  some  handsome  white 
flowers. 

The  bridal  procession  is  formed  by  the 
ushers,  who  walk  first  two  and  two,  fol- 
lowed by  the  bridesmaids,  also  two  and  two  : 


then  the  child-bridesmaids,  if  this  pretty 
custom  is  adopted,  and  then  the  bride,  lean- 
ing on  her  father's  right  arm.  Sometimes 
the  children  lead  the  others.  At  the  altar 
the  ushers  separate,  moving  to  the  right  and 
left,  the  bridesmaids  do  the  same,  thus  leav- 
ing room  for  the  bridal  pair. 

Upon  the  entrance  of  the  bridal  party 
within  the  doors  of  the  church,  the  organist 
will  play  a  "  Wedding  March,"  and  as  they  • 
take  their  places  at  the  altar  will  change 
this  to  some  low,  subdued,  but  sweet  and 
appropriate  melody,  which  he  should  con- 
tinue with  taste  and  feeling  throughout  the 
service .  As  the  bridal  party  leave  the  church , 
the  music  should  be  loud  and  jubilant. 

The  front  pews  in  the  church  should  be 
reserved  for  the  families  and  especial  friends 
of  the  happy  pair.  These  are  generally 
separated  from  the  others  by  a  white  ribbon 
drawn  across  the  aisle. 

The  wedding  party  should  stand  accord- 
ing to  the  positions  decided  upon  by  the 
wishes  of  the  bride  and  groom.  Usually 
the  bride  takes  her  place  upon  the  left  of 
the  groom,  her  father  stands  a  little  in  ad- 
vance of  the  rest,  behind  the  couple,  and  her 
mother  just  in  the  rear  of  her  father.  The 
bridesmaids  group  themselves  on  the  left  of 
the  bride,  the  groomsmen  on  the  right  of 
the  bridegroom,  all  in  the  rear  of  the  prin- 
cipals. 

The  clergyman,  who  should  be  already 
in  his  place,  at  once  begins  the  marriage 
ceremony. 

When  a  ring  is  used,  to  avoid  the  long 
delay  of  drawing  off  the  glove,  brides  now 
cut  the  finger  of  the  one  on  the  left  hand,  so 
that  it  can  be  slipped  aside  to  allow  the 
putting  on  of  the  ring  ;  this  is  the  routine  al- 
most in  variably  followed  at  church  weddings. 

The  responses  of  the  bride  and  bride- 
groom to  the  clergyman  should  be  given 
clearly  and  distinctly,  but  not  in  too  loud  a 
tone.  On  the  conclusion  of  the  ceremony 
the  newly-married  couple  and  their  attend  - 
ants  withdraw  in  much  the  same  manner  as 
on  advancing,  the  bride  now  taking  her 
husband's  left  arm. 

The  Wedding  Breakfast. 

The  English  fashion  of  a  wedding-break" 
fast  is  now  often  followed  in  this  country, 


191 


40 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


the  guests  being  specially  invited  a  fortnight 
in  advance.  On  such  an  occasion  the  gen- 
tlemen, on  reaching  the  house,  leave  their 
hats  in  the  hall ;  but  the  ladies  do  not  re- 
move their  bonnets. 

In  going  to  the  table,  the  bride  and 
groom  precede,  then  the  bride's  father  with 
the  groom's  mother,  the  groom's  father  with 
the  bride's  mother,  the  best  man  with  the 
first  bridesmaid,  the  other  bridesmaids  with 
gentlemen  selected  as  their  escorts,  and 
finally  the  remaining  guests.  The  dishes 
usually  provided  are  bouillon,  salad,  birds, 
oysters,  ices,  jellies,  etc. 

The  health  of  the  bride  and  groom  is 
proposed,  usually  by  the  groom's  father, 
and  response  is  made  by  the  father  of  the 
bride.  The  health  of  the  bridesmaids  may 
also  be  proposed  ;  but  the  occasion  is  ordi- 
narily more  pleasurable  if  strict  formality  is 
dispensed  with. 

After  remaining  for  an  hour  or  two  with 
the  guests,  the  bride  retires  to  change  her 
wedding  dress  for  a  traveling  costume. 
She  is  met  by  the  groom  in  the  hall,  the 
necessary  good  wishes  and  kisses  are  ex- 
changed, and  the  pair  drive  away,  often  fol- 
lowed by  a  shower  of  rice  and  slipperr?. 

As  regards  the  desideratum  of  wedding 
cake,  it  is  no  longer  the  fashion  to  send  it ; 
but  small  boxes  of  it,  neatly  tied  with  white 
ribbon,  are  prepared,  of  which  each  guest  may 
take  one  upon  leaving  the  house,  if  desired. 

What  is  above  said  relates  to  the  mar- 
riage of  a  maiden.  In  the  case  of  the  mar- 
riage of  a  widow  certain  changes  in  dress 
and  ceremony  are  requisite.  A  widow  must 
never  be  attended  by  bridesmaids,  nor  must 
she  wear  a  veil  or  orange  blossoms  ;  the 
proper  dress  at  church  is  a  colored  silk  and 
bonnet,  pearl  gray  or  some  other  delicate 
shade  being  preferable,  though  she  is  privi- 
leged to  wear  white  if  she  desires.  She 
should  be  accompanied  by  her  father, 
brother,  or  some  near  friend. 

A  House  Wedding. 

A  fashionable  wedding  at  home  calls 
into  requisition  the  services  of  both  florist 
and  caterer ;  the  former  to  decorate  the 
rooms,  the  latter  to  furnish  the  marriage 
feast.  A  variety  of  floral  devices  may  be 
employed,  from  the  marriage  bell  and  mono- 


gram to  a  bower  of  ferns  large  enougk  to 
receive  the  bride  and  bridegroom. 

The  par,  of  the  room  to  be  occupied  by 
the  bridal  party  should  bt  marked  off  by  a 
white  ribbon.  After  the  clergyman  has 
taken  his  place,  the  bride  and  groom  enter 
together,  followed  by  the  mother,  father, 
and  other  friends.  Hassocks  should  be 
ready  for  the  bridal  pair  to  kneel  upon,  in 
case  this  is  deemed  necessary  as  a  part  of 
the  ceremony. 

Where  money  is  lacking  to  defray  the 
charges  of  florist  and  caterer,  or  in  country 
localities  where  their  assistance  cannot  be 
had,  the  loving  hands  of  friends  may  decor- 
ate the  rooms  with  foliage  and  blossoms, 
and  the  table  be  supplied  with  simple  dishes 
such  as  the  household  means  can  furnish. 
Wedding-cake,  light  cakes,  ices,  and  coffee 
arranged  on  a  table  prettily  ornamented  with 
flowers  is  a  sufficient  entertainment  at  a 
quiet  home- wedding,  and,  let  it  be  added,  is 
in  far  better  taste  than  a  more  ostentatious 
display  which  is  beyond  the  means  of  the 
family,  and  leaves  a  burden  of  debt  behind. 

In  fashionable  circles,  after  the  return  of 
the  bridal  party  the  members  of  both  fami- 
lies give  a  dinner  in  their  honor,  and  the 
bridesmaids,  if  able  to  do  so,  give  them 
some  entertainment. 

Brides  sometimes  announce,  when  send- 
ing out  their  wedding-cards,  two  or  more 
reception  days  ;  but  they  do  not  wear  their 
wedding-dresses,  though  their  toilettes  may 
be  as  handsome  as  they  desire.  When  in- 
vited to  balls  or  dinners,  however,  the  wed- 
ding-dress is  perfectly  appropriate  for  a 
bride  to  wear — of  course  without  the  wreath 
and  veil. 

Sending  Cards. 

In  some  circles  the  young  couple  send 
out  cards  with  their  wedding  invitations, 
stating  the  day  and  hour  they  will  receive 
callers  after  their  return  from  their  wedding 
tour.  No  one  who  has  not  received  such 
a  card  should  call  upon  a  newly  married 
couple.  Such  cards  should  be  as  simple 
and  unostentatious  as  possible.  Where 
they  are  sent  out,  the  wedding  journey  must 
be  terminated  in  time  to  allow  the  new 
couple  to  be  at  home  at  the  time  indicated 
for  the  reception  of  their  visitors. 
92 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETl. 


^- 


Visitors  should  call  punctually  at  the 
time  appointed.  In  some  places  it  is  cus- 
tomary to  offer  the  guests  wedding-cake  and 


wine.  The  mother,  sister,  or  some  intimate 
friend  of  the  bride  must  assist  her  in  receiv- 
ing these  calls.     This  rule  is  imperative. 


IX.     FUNERAL  ETIQUETTE. 


The  great  sorrow  brought  upon  a  family 
by  the  death  of  one  of  its  members  often 
renders  the  immediate  relatives  incapable  of 
properly  attending  to  the  arrangements  nec- 
essary for  the  funeral.  The  services  of  a 
near  friend  or  a  relative,  therefore,  are  often 
availed  of,  he  being  informed  of  the  wishes 
of  the  family,  and  relieving  them  of  all  fur- 
ther care,  by  himself  taking  charge  of  every- 
thing needing  to  be  attended  to. 

The  ladies  of  the  family,  before  the 
funeral,  see  none  except  intimate  friends, 
and  may  with  propriety  deny  themselves 
even  to  those. 

Immediately  after  a  death  the  relatives 
and  intimate  friends  of  the  deceased  should 
receive  some  notification  of  it.  An  under- 
taker must  also  at  once  be  summoned,  and 
the  arrangements  and  details  of  the  funeral 
be  left  to  him.  Notices  should  be  inserted 
in  one  or  more  of  the  daily  papers  of  the 
time  and  place  of  the  funeral  services,  etc. 

In  some  parts  of  the  country  it  is  custom- 
ary to  send  notes  of  invitation  to  the  funeral 
to  the  friends  of  the  deceased  and  of  the 
family.  These  invitations  should  be  printed, 
neatly  and  simply,  on  mourning  paper,  with 
envelopes  to  match,  and  should  be  delivered 
by  a  private  messenger,  where  convenient. 

A  v/ritten  notification,  however,  is  fre- 
quently sent  where  only  a  few  are  to  be 
specially  invited,  the  newspaper  announce- 
ment being  trusted  to  inform  those  less 
closely  connected. 

The  expense  of  a  funeral  should  be  in 
accordance  with  the  means  of  the  family. 
It  is  a  foolish  form  of  pride  and  ostentation 
that  induces  the  members  of  a  family  to  load 
themselves  unnecessarily  with  debt  in  order 
to  make  a  showy  funeral  display.  All 
marks  of  respect  should  be  shown  to  the 
dead,  but  undue  expense  is  more  indicative 
of  a  desire  on  the  part  of  the  living  to  im- 
press their  friends  and  neighbors  than  a 
genuine  desire  to  do  honor  to  the  one  who 
has  passed  away. 


Where  invitations  are  sent  out,  a  list  of 
persons  invited  must  be  given  to  the  person 
in  charge  of  the  funeral,  in  order  that  he 
may  provide  a  sufficient  number  of  carria- 
ges. Those  invited  should  not  permit  any- 
thing but  an  important  duty  to  prevent 
their  attendance. 

The  House  Services. 

When  the  funeral  is  at  the  house,  some 
near  relative  or  intimate  friend  should  act 
as  usher,  and  show  the  company  to  their 
seats. 

A  decorous  silence  should  be  preserved 
in  the  chamber  of  death,  no  one  speaking 
except  in  low,  sabdued  tones.  The  mem- 
bers of  the  family  are  not  obliged  to  recog- 
nize their  acquaintances.  The  latter  show 
their  sympathy  b)^  their  presence  and  con- 
siderate silence. 

The  cofi&n,  if  in  good  taste,  will  never 
be  unduly  elaborate  or  over  ornamented. 
A  black  cloth  casket,  with  plain  silver 
mountings,  is  preferable  to  any  other. 

The  clergyman  usually  stands  in  a  posi- 
tion as  nearly  as  possible  midway  between 
the  family  and  assembled  friends,  so  that  his 
words  may  be  heard  by  all.  The  family  re- 
main seated  together,  usually  in  some  room 
upstairs,  and  never  appear  until  it  becomes 
necessary  to  enter  the  carriages.  If  the 
funeral  be  in  church,  they  occupy  the  front 
pews,  the  intimate  friends  sitting  immediate- 
ly behind  them. 

Six  or  eight  of  the  most  intimate  male 
friends  of  the  person  who  has  died  are  in- 
vited by  the  family  to  act  as  pall-bearers. 
On  the  day  of  the  funeral  they  assemble  at 
the  house,  and  the  undertaker  provides  each 
of  them  with  black  gloves  and  a  mourner's 
scarf.  They  walk  with  their  heads  uncov- 
ered beside  the  coffin,  up  the  aisle,  if  the 
services  be  held  in  church,  and  also  escort 
the  body  to  the  grave.  They  usually  sit  in 
one  of  the  front  pews,  reserved  for  their  use, 
while  the  funeral  services  are  being  con- 
ducted. 


193 


42 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


Flowers. 

With  regard  to  sending  flowers,  the 
wishes  of  the  family  should  be  considered. 
If  you  are  uncertain  upon  this  point,  it  is 
safe  to  send  them.  They  should  be  simple 
and  tasteful,  also  in  keeping  with  the  age  of 
the  person  who  has  been  removed  by  death. 

As  the  sending  of  elaborate  floral  designs 
has  been  much  overdone  of  recent  years,  it 
is  becoming  frequently  the  custom  not  to 
send  flowers  to  houses  of  mourning,  and  in 
many  funeral  notices  a  request  is  made  to 
this  effect.  Whatever  flowers  are  received 
are  usually  placed  upon  the  cofiin  during 
the  services,  and  afterwards  carried  to  the 
cemetery  to  be  laid  on  or  a  few  laid  in  the 
grave. 

In  preparing  the  body  for  the  grave,  the 
usual  custom  is  to  dress  it  in  the  garments 
worn  in  life ;  but  young  people  are  fre- 
quently laid  out  in  white  robes. 

It  is  optional  with  the  ladies  of  the  fam- 
ily to  attend  the  remains  to  the  last  resting 
place  or  not,  as  they  may  prefer.  And  of 
recent  years  the  invitation  is  generally  to 
the  house  only,  notification  being  given 
that  the  funeral  will  be  private.  This  is  a 
judicious  innovation,  in  the  direction  of 
economy  and  the  avoidance  of  ostentatious 
display,  and  it  is  one  that  is  likely  to  grow 
among  people  of  taste  and  judgment. 

After  the  funeral,  only  the  members  of 
the  family  return  to  the  house,  except  in  the 
case  of  friends  or  relatives  from  distant 
cities,  and  a  widow  or  mother  may  properly 
refuse  to  see  any  others  than  her  nearest 
relatives  for  several  weeks. 

Mourning. 

The  length  of  time  for  wearing  mourning 
has  greatly  decreased  during  the  past  five 
years,  as  formerly  there  was  such  an  exag- 
geration of  this  that  sometimes  the  young 
people  in  a  family  were  kept  in  constant 
black,  owing  to  the  death  of  successive 
relatives. 

For  deep  mourning,  black  stuff  dresses, 
heavily  trimmed  with  black  crape,  and  long 
crape  veils,  are  worn.  During  the  second 
period  the  crape  is  left  off,  and  plain  black 
alone  is  used  ;  and  for  half-mourning  light 
black,  black  silks,  black  and  white,  or  cos- 
tames  of  mauve  or  grey,  can  be  worn. 


194 


For  gentlemen,  at  first  plain  black  che- 
viot suits,  with  broad  crape  bands  on  their 
hats,  and  black  gloves.  For  the  second 
period  they  cease  to  wear  black  clothes, 
varying  these  by  dark  suits  of  black  and 
grey,  and  the  width  of  the  crape  hat-band 
is  narrowed.  For  half-mourning  the  black 
hat-band  is  the  one  emblem  of  grief  retained. 

A  widow  should  wear  deep  mourning 
for  twelve  months,  plain  black  for  the 
second  year,  and  half-mourning  for  six 
months. 

For  parent,  brother,  or  sister,  the  usual 
time  of  wearing  mourning  is  one  year  ;  for  a 
young  child,  six  months ;  for  an  infant, 
three  months. 

There  is  much  difference  of  opinion  in 
regard  to  the  wearing  of  mourning  dresses, 
many  objecting  to  doing  so  for  what  they 
consider  excellent  reasons.  In  truth,  the 
mourning  attire  aids  to  keep  up  the  feeling 
of  grief,  and  to  depress  where  some  means  of 
enlivening  the  feelings  is  desirable.  Yet  it 
serves  as  a  protection  to  those  whose  deep 
sense  of  loss  induces  them  to  avoid  many 
social  duties,  and  who  Vv'ould  escape  from 
thoughtless  and  painful  allusions.  It  is  a 
matter,  in  short,  that  must  be  governed  by 
the  feelings  and  sentiments  of  those  directly 
concerned. 

During  the  first  period  of  mourning  it  is 
not  considered  becoming  to  visit  places  of 
amusement  or  to  enter  social  life  or  indulge  in 
gaiety  of  any  kind.  After  a  certain  time 
elapses — six  months  or  a  year,  according  to 
the  depth  of  the  mourning — a  person  is  at 
liberty  to  go  out  quietly  to  concerts,  theatres, 
informal  dinners,  etc. 

It  is  customary  to  send  a  few  words  of 
sympathy  to  the  family  after  a  death  has 
taken  place.  Such  letters  should  be  brief 
and  written  with  real  interest  and  afiection, 
otherwise  they  had  better  be  omitted. 

During  a  period  of  mourning,  note  paper 
and  visiting  cards  are  usually  edged  with  a 
black  border,  the  width  of  this  to  be  deter- 
mined by  the  depth  and  recency  of  the 
mourning.  The  very  wide  band  is  exagger- 
ated, ostentatious,  and  in  bad  form. 

No  invitations  of  any  kind  should  be  left 
at  a  house  of  mourning,  until  after  a  lapse 
of  a  month  or  more,  according  to  circum- 
stances.    Then,   cards  to  balls,  weddings, 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


43 


and  general  entertainments  may  properly  be 
sent.  When  persons  who  have  worn  black 
are  ready  to  resume  their  social  life,  they 


should  leave  cards  with  all  their  friends  and 
acquaintances,  either  in  person  or  by  send- 
ing them  through  the  mail. 


X.  ANNIVERSARY  AND  OTHER  OCCASIONS 


Among  the  festivities  which  society  pro- 
vides for  its  enjoyment,  that  of  the  anniver- 
sary wedding  has  of  late  years  come  greatly 
into  vogue.  It  is  a  pleasant  custom,  and  has 
been  gradually  extenaed  until  numerous 
anniversaries  of  the  wedding  day,  differ- 
ently named,  are  celebrated  with  appropri- 
ate ceremonies.  Beginning  with  the  silver 
and  golden  wedding,  on  respectively  the 
twenty-fifth  and  the  fiftieth  anniversaries, 
there  have  been  gradually  added  various 
others,  such  as  the  wooden  wedding  on  the 
fifth,  the  tin  wedding  on  the  tenth,  the 
crystal  wedding  on  the  fifteenth,  the  linen 
or  china  wedding  on  the  twentieth,  and,  as 
an  occasion  of  exceedingly  rare  occurance, 
the  diamond  wedding  on  the  seventy-fifth 
anniversary  of  the  marriage. 

This  is  not  the  whole  list,  much  ingenuity 
having  been  exercised  in  adding  to  the  fre- 
quency and  diversity  of  these  anniversaries, 
and  to  those  named  may  be  added  the  iron 
wedding,  celebrated  after  one  year  of  mar- 
ried life  ;  the  paper  wedding,  on  the  second 
anniversary  ;  the  leather,  on  the  third  ;  the 
straw,  on  the  fourth ;  the  wooden,  on  the 
seventh  ;  the  ivory,  on  the  thirtieth  ;  the 
coral,  on  the  thirty-fifth  ;  the  woolen,  on  the 
fortieth  ;  and  the  bronze,  on  the  forty-fifth. 
It  is  now  a  common  custom,  however,  to 
overlook  all  the  anniversaries  preceding  the 
silver  wedding. 

Gifts  and  Invitations. 

A  leading  feature  on  these  occasions  is 
the  sending  of  gifts,  which  are  expected  to 
be  made  of  the  material  which  gives  the 
name  to  the  wedding,  and  much  ingenuity 
is  exercised  in  selecting  or  inventing  suit- 
able presents,  those  of  an  amusing  kind 
being  often  a  leading  feature. 

Invitations  to  any  of  these  occasions 
should  be  appropriate  in  design.  For  in- 
stance, the  straw  wedding  cards  may  be 
printed  on  straw-colored  stationery ,  the  ivory 
wedding  cards  on  ivory,  and  the  bronze 
wedding  cards  in  a  similar  way.     For  the 


silver  wedding  the  cards  may  be  printed  in 
letters  of  silver,  and  in  golden  letters  for 
the  golden  anniversary. 

An  appropriate  form  of  invitation,  say 
for  a  silver  wedding,  will  be  as  follows  : 

1870.         Mr.  and  Mrs.  Brown         1895. 

Request  the  pleasure  of  your  company. 

On  Monday ,  June  the  Ninth, 

At  eight  o'clock  P.M., 

SiivVKR  Wedding. 

W1LI.1AM  Brown.     Susan  CampbeIvI<. 

Many  persons  omit  the  names  at  the  end, 
and  in  some  cases  an  exact  copy  of  the  mar- 
riage notice,  taken  from  the  newspapers  of 
the  wedding  period,  is  made  to  serve  the 
purpose.     A  second  form  is  here  appended  : 

1850.  1900. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Henry  Wilson, 

At  Home, 

May  fourth,  igoo, 

at  eight  o' clock  P.M., 

Golden  Wedding. 

The  entertainment  may  be  similar  to 
that  supplied  at  any  reception,  with  the  ad- 
dition of  a  large  wedding-cake,  containing  a 
ring,  which  the  bride  cuts  just  as  she  did 
twenty-five  years  before. 

As  to  character  of  the  gifts,  there  is 
abundant  scope  for  selection,  with  the  gen- 
eral remembrance  that  they  should  be  in 
consonance  with  the  name  of  the  anniver- 
sary. In  the  case  of  a  wooden  wedding,  for 
instance,  there  is  an  opportunity  for  the  be- 
stowal of  beautiful  gifts  in  wood- carving, 
handsome  pieces  of  furniture  and  picture 
frames,  as  well  as  the  regulation  wooden 
rollers,  chopping  trays,  etc.,  for  the  kitchen. 
Bits  of  birch-bark  are  frequently  used  for 
the  invitations. 

Tin  weddings  have  become  occasions  of 
special  liveliness,  and  much  ingenuity  is 
exercised  in  devising  amusing  gifts.  One 
young  wife  received  from  her  father-in-law 
a  check,  marked  "tin,"  enclosed  in  an 
elaborate  tin  pocket-book.     The  tin  utensils 


195 


44 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


used  in  the  kitchen  and  household  furnish 
an  abundant  variety  for  choice.  Tin  fun- 
nels holding  bouquets  of  flowers  and  tied 
with  ribbons  are  usually  numerous,  and  the 
glittering  metal,  adorned  with  bows  of  rib- 
bon of  every  hue,  is  very  effective  when  dis- 
played on  a  table.  The  invitation  is  usually 
printed  on  a  bit  of  tin. 

On  the  fifteenth  anniversary,  or  crystal 
wedding,  the  invitations  are  frequently  crys- 
talized,  while  the  gifts  may  embrace  every 
variety  of  glassware.  The  linen  wedding  is 
more  rarely  celebrated,  many  persons  con- 
sidering it  unlucky.  The  Scotch  have  a 
superstition  that  if  any  allusion  is  made  to 
this  anniversary,  one  or  other  of  the  married 
couple  will  die  within  the  year. 

The  silver  wedding  is  usually  a  joyous 
occasion.  The  bride  and  groom  are  still  in 
the  prime  of  life,  their  children  are  of  the 
age  for  a  full  enjoyment  of  festivity,  and 
their  circle  of  friends  is  likely  to  be  complete. 

Those  who  receive  invitations  usually 
send  some  present  composed  of  silver,  which 
may  be  as  trivial  or  as  costly  as  the  donor 
chooses.  They  are  generally  marked  "  Sil- 
ver Wedding,"  or  bear  some  appropriate 
motto  with  the  initials  of  the  couple  en- 
closed in  a  true  lover's  knot.  The  variety 
of  articles  is  almost  endless, — silver  clocks, 
photograph  frames,  belt-clasps,  mirrors, 
brushes  and  combs,  and  other  toilet  articles 
set  in  solid  silver,  and  the  long  array  of 
table-ware. 

The  golden  wedding  is  a  much  less  fre- 
quent occasion,  and  far  less  likely  to  be  a 
joyous  one.  Age  has  crept  upon  the  prin- 
cipals, and  is  creeping  upon  their  children 
and  friends,  life  has  grown  sober,  and  its 
pathway  is  apt  to  be  strewn  with  many  som- 
bre memories. 

As  articles  of  gold  are  apt  to  be  more 
expensive  than  many  of  those  invited  care 
to  give,  flowers  are  frequently  made  to  do 
duty  in  their  place — preferably  yellow  ones. 
As  for  the  diamond  wedding,  the  seventy- 
fifth  anniversary,  it  is  so  rare  an  occasion 
that  no  description  of  it  is  necessary.  Of 
course,  it  calls  for  presents  of  jewelry, 
though,  as  in  the  case  of  the  golden  wed- 
ding, guests  may  replace  them  with  some- 
thing less  expensive  and  more  appropriate 
to  the  age  of  the  married  pair. 


196 


Christenings. 

Another  occasion  incident  to  married 
life,  is  the  christening,  which  next  demands 
consideration  at  our  hands. 

When  children  are  to  be  christened  at 
home,  it  is  rapidly  becoming  the  custom  to 
celebrate  such  events  by  giving  some  sort  of 
a  social  entertainment,  the  size  or  arrange- 
ment of  which  depends  upon  the  taste  and 
circumstances  of  the  parents.  If  many  are 
to  be  present,  the  invitations  should  be  sent 
out  formally,  as  though  for  an  afternoon  re- 
ception. The  usual  hours  selected  are  from 
4  until  6  P.M.  Upon  a  small  table  a  silver 
or  china  bowl  should  be  placed,  which  is 
used  as  a  font.  Flowers  in  abundance  are 
never  in  bad  taste  at  a  christening. 

After  the  clergyman  has  performed  the 
baptism,  a  beverage  called  "caudle"  is 
served  in  cups  to  the  guests. 

Recipe  for  viakmg  Caudle. — This  should 
be  made  of  fine,  smooth  oatmeal  gruel,  fla- 
vored with  wine  or  rum,  lemon  peel  or  nut- 
meg, and  sugar  added  according  to  taste. 
Of  course,  in  the  case  of  a  church  christen- 
ing no  house-entertainment  is  called  for, 
and  a  family  party  is  all  that  is  likely  to 
come  together. 

Private  Theatricals. 

The  private  theatrical  provides  an  enter- 
tainment which  is  daily  growing  in  popular- 
ity both  in  England  and  our  own  country. 
Sometimes  a  stage  is  erected  in  a  private 
house,  but  more  frequently  small  theatres 
are  engaged,  where  the  performance  takes 
place. 

Instruction,  or  "  coaching,"  is  as  a  rule 
given  to  the  amateur  performers  by  some 
professional  manager,  actor,  or  actress  en- 
gaged for  the  occasion,  and  is  essential  if 
any  satisfactory  entertainment  is  hoped  for. 
Rehearsals  are  equally  necessary  and  must 
be  frequent  to  insure  success. 

For  tableaux  it  is  better  to  have  the 
advice  and  taste  of  some  clever  artist,  as  the 
beauty  and  interest  of  the  human  pictures 
depend  so  largely  upon  the  posing  and 
drapery  of  the  figures,  to  say  nothing  of  the 
effect  of  the  lights  and  the  choice  of  colors. 

Entertainments  of  these  kinds  may  take 
a  considerable  variety  of  forms,  and  are 
very  pleasant   breaks   in  the  monotony  0/ 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


45 


party  giving  and  the  other  set  affairs  of 
ordinary  life.  The  time  spent  in  prepara- 
tion, however,  is  likely  to  be  considerable, 
and  the  result  is  often  more  farcical  than  the 
performers  intend  or  understand. 

Etiquette  for  General  Occasions. 

There  are,  or  should  be,  rules  of  eti- 
quette applicable  to  every  situation,  the 
home  circle,  the  street,  the  store,  the  travel- 
ing conveyance,  and  in  short  for  all  the 
occasions  in  which  men  and  women  are 
brought  together.  These  consist  mainly  in 
observing  the  ordinary  requisites  of  polite- 
ness, the  avoidance  of  rude  or  selfish  behav- 
ior, and  of  any  actions  likely  to  hurt  the 
feelings  or  offend  the  tastes  of  those  with 
whom  chance  or  social  relations  bring  us 
into  contact.  It  is  not  sufl&cient  for  the 
demands  of  society  that  we  are  morally  cor- 
rect ;  correctness  in  deportment  is  no  less 
important,  and  there  are  numbers  of  small 
observances  required  from  any  one  who 
wishes  to  keep  on  the  correct  side  of  the  line 
which  divides  good  manners  from  ignorant 
or  boorish  behavior. 

Etiquette  of  the  liousehold. 

First  among  these  requisites  comes  the 
etiquette  of  the  home  circle,  in  which  the 
principle  of  politeness  and  courtesy  are 
often  laid  aside  as  a  consequence  of  care- 
less habits  and  selfish  egotism.  Good  man- 
ners are  too  often  a  cloak  which  is  flung 
aside  like  a  needless  burden  as  soon  as  the 
home  threshold  is  crossed,  yet  there  is  no 
place  where  kindness  and  thoughtfulness 
should  be  considered  as  more  important, 
and  in  which  neglect  of  the  small  courtesies 
of  life  are  so  likely  to  wound  or  distress . 

Certainly  the  true  gentleman  or  lady  will 
endeavor  to  be  as  courteous  and  considerate 
in  the  familv  circle  as  among  strangers,  and 
equally  avoid  impatient  and  cutting  remarks 
or  lack  of  polite  attention.  Some  few  re- 
marks on  the  rules  of  propriety  for  the 
home  will  not  come  amiss. 

The  house  should  be  kept  in  as  good 
order  for  the  comfort  of  the  family  as  when 
strangers  are  expected,  and  the  members  of 
the  household  should  be  careful  to  act  in 
drawing-room  or  at  table  as  if  a  guest  were 
present.     Formality,  indeed,  is    not  called 


for,  but  ease  of  manner  does  not  imply 
rudeness,  and  politeness  should  never  be 
laid  aside. 

Only  a  few  leading  suggestions  can  be 
here  given.  These  will  suggest  others  to 
all  who  attend  to  them.  First,  it  is  import- 
ant to  make  special  efforts  to  be  punctual  at 
meal  time.  Nothing  interferes  with  the  regu- 
lar movements  of  the  household,  or  disturbs 
the  equanimity  of  the  hostess,  more  than 
carelessness  or  irregularity  in  this  respect. 
To  have  to  keep  food  warm  for  the  late 
comer,  or  perhaps  to  cook  it  afresh,  is  a  need- 
less waste  of  time  and  labor,  and  is  apt  to 
add  to  the  household  expenses. 

Do  not  fail  to  rise  and  offer  a  chair  on 
the  entrance  of  an  older  person,  or  at  all 
events  an  infirm  person,  to  the  room  in 
which  you  are  seated,  and  never  precede  an 
older  person  in  entering  or  leaving  a  room,  or 
in  ascending  stairs.  Do  not  permit  children 
to  occupy  the  pleasantest  seats,  to  the  depri- 
vation of  their  elders,  or  to  be  annoyingly 
intrusive  when  older  persons  are  engaged  in 
conversation.  The  "children's  hour" 
should  not  be  permitted  to  encroach  upon 
that  of  their  elders.  Never  enter  any  per- 
son's room  without  knocking. 

Be  careful  to  give  any  one  who  desires 
to  read  full  access  to  the  light.  Avoid  mak- 
ing unnecessary  noise  on  coming  home  late 
at  night,  and  in  this  way  disturbing  the  re- 
pose of  the  household.  Gentlemen  who  are 
in  the  habit  of  smoking  at  home  should 
confine  their  devotions  of  the  cigar  to  a  single 
room ,  and  avoid  careless  distribution  of  ashes 
or  matches  on  floors  or  tables. 

If  callers  are  likely  to  drop  in  to  meals, 
it  is  advisable  to  have  a  seat  at  the  table  re- 
served ;  and  a  room  should  also  be  set  aside, 
where  possible,  for  chance  visiting  friends. 
In  every  case  a  welcome  should  be  ready, 
and  every  indication  of  being  discommoded 
be  sedulously  avoided. 

As  regards  the  intercourse  of  the  immedi- 
ate members  of  the  household,  it  will  suffice 
to  say  that,  while  formality  can  well  be  laid 
aside,  politeness  and  courtesy  should  never 
be  forgotten. 

Table  Manners. 

In  conclusion  a  few  rules  of  importance 
in  table  manners,  familiar  to  most,  but  too 


197 


46 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


often  carelessly  ignored,  may  be  given.  The 
napkin  should  be  spread  over  tlie  knees, 
not  fastened  at  the  neck  or  tucked  into  a 
button  hole.  It  should  be  folded  after  using, 
if  the  hostess  folds  hers. 

The  fork  should  be  held  in  the  palm  of 
the  left  hand.  If  in  the  right,  it  should  be 
used  with  the  prongs  upward,  and  held  be- 
tween fingers  and  thumb. 

Avoid  bending  over  the  plate,  drooping 
the  head  too  low,  thrusting  the  elbows  out, 
or  sitting  with  the  back  turned  toward  the 
person  in  the  next  chair. 

Be  careful  not  to  take  large  mouthfuls 
nor  to  eat  too  hastily  or  heartily. 

Never  hesitate  to  take  the  last  piece  of 
bread  that  may  be  offered.  A  refusal  to  do 
so  would  be  a  reflection  upon  the  hostess, 
suggesting  that  she  had  not  provided  fully 
for  her  guests. 

In  regard  to  rarer  dishes,  however,  it  is 
wise  to  show  no  inclination  for  more,  if  the 
supply  on  the  table  seems  small. 

Never  play  with  napkin  ring,  fork,  or 
other  article,  and  keep  the  hands  off  the 
table  when  not  employed.  Never  leave  the 
table  till  the  meal  is  over,  and  avoid  reading 
newspapers,  books,  etc.,  at  table  unless  alone. 

Never  use  a  spoon  to  eat  vegetables.  A 
fork  is  the  proper  thing.  Never  take  butter 
from  the  dish  with  your  own  knife,  or  use 
it  except  on  your  own  plate.  It  is  scarcely 
necessary  again  to  give  warning  against 
putting  the  knife  in  the  mouth.  Yet  this 
unpardonable  breach  of  table  etiquette  is 
often  committed  by  persons  whose  training 
should  have  taught  them  better. 

The  table  should  be  a  centre  of  cheerful 
and  enlivening  conversation,  and  too  close 
attention  to  the  duty  of  eating  should  be 
avoided,  alike  from  reasons  having  to  do 
with  healthy  digestion,  and  the  desirability 
of  every  one  striving  to  bear  a  part  in  the  en- 
tertainment of  the  family  circle.  The  table 
is  the  one  place  where  all  the  family  meet  at 
leisure,  and  where  they  should  seek  to  make 
themselves  agreeable. 

Etiquette  of  the  Street. 

Courtesy  requires  the  return  of  all  civil 
greetings — those  of  servants  included. 
Only  the  most  serious  causes  can  justify 
"a  cut." 


In  bowing,  the  head  should  be  bent ;  a 
mere  lowering  of  the  eye-lids,  affected  by 
some  people,  is  rude.  Etiquette  does  not  per- 
mit a  familiar  nod,  except  between  business 
men  or  very  intimate  friends.  In  passing  and 
repassing  on  a  public  promenade  or  drive, 
bows  need  to  be  exchanged  only  at  the  first 
meeting.  In  carrying  canes,  umbrellas,  and 
packages,  care  should  be  taken  not  to  dis- 
commode passers  with  them.  This  is  par- 
ticularly needed  in  the  case  of  raised  um- 
brellas, which  are  often  carried  with  care- 
less disregard  of  the  convenience  of  others. 
This  is  one  annoying  way  in  which  selfish- 
ness is  shown. 

At  a  street  crossing  it  is  the  duty  of 
gentlemen  to  make  way  for  ladies,  and 
younger  for  older  persons.  In  walking  or 
driving,  the  rule  to  keep  to  the  right  will 
enable  all  to  avoid  danger  of  collision. 

A  gentleman  should  always  offer  his 
arm  to  a  lady  in  the  evening.  In  the  day 
this  is  only  in  order  in  case  of  the  pavement 
being  slippery,  there  being  a  crov/d,  or  the 
lady  being  old  or  needing  support.  If  there 
are  two  ladies,  he  should  offer  his  arm  to 
one,  and  let  the  other  walk  beside  her. 

In  the  Electric  Car. 

If  a  gentleman  desires  to  offer  his  seat 
to  a  lady,  he  should  not  beckon  to  her,  but 
rise  and  offer  it  to  her  courteously.  It  is 
the  duty  of  the  lady,  in  accepting  the  seat, 
to  acknowledge  his  courteous  attention  by 
a  bow  and  an  audible  expression  of  thanks. 
On  the  other  hand  it  is  an  indication  of  ill- 
breeding  to  show  signs  of  displeasure  if,  on 
entering  a  crowded  car,  no  seat  is  offered. 
It  should  be  borne  in  mind  that  the  gentle- 
man has  a  right  to  his  seat,  and  is  under  no 
obligation,  except  that  of  politeness,  to  give 
it  up ,  and  weariness  or  weakness  may  render 
it  inadvisable  for  him  to  rise.  No  lady,  if 
young  or  strong,  will  expect  or  permit  an 
old  gentleman  to  relinquish  to  her  his  seat. 
If,  however,  a  lady  is  ill  or  greatly  fatigued 
she  should  not  hesitate  to  request  a  seat, 
giving  her  reasons  for  doing  so.  No  gentle- 
man, and  few  who  are  not  gentlemen,  would 
refuse  such  a  request. 

No  gentlemen  will  take  a  vacant  seat 
while  ladies  are  standing,  and  none  should 
stand  on  the  car  platform  in  such  a  manner 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


47 


as  to  discommode  alighting  passengers .  It  is 
easy  and  courteous  to  move  aside,  and  step 
down  into  the  street  if  necessary .  If  baskets 
or  bundles  are  brought  into  the  car  care 
should  be  taken  not  to  let  them  annoy 
passengers. 

Etiquette  of  Business. 

Never  forget  that  time  is  precious  to 
some  persons,  though  you  may  be  ready  to 
waste  it ;  also  that  money  is  necessary,  and 
that  it  is  every  one's  duty  to  settle  all  debts 
as  promptly  as  possible. 

Never  fail  to  have  all  the  details  of  an 
agreement  decided  so  far  as  they  can  be 
before  the  transaction  is  concluded,  and 
bear  in  mind  that  a  contract  can  be  broken 
only  by  the  consent  of  all  the  parties  con- 
cerned. 

Never  keep  washer- women,  seamstresses, 
nor  any  one  dependent  upon  daily  labor 
waiting  for  payment,  and,  on  the  other  hand, 
when  requesting  payment  of  a  debt,  avoid 
liny  unpleasantness  of  tone  or  manner. 

Never  buy  on  credit,  if  cash  can  be  bad. 
This  is  a  rule  of  common  sense  and  practi- 
cal economy. 

Never  forget  that  a  character  for  fair 
dealing  is  a  capital  that  cannot  be  lost.  Do 
not  think  it  unnecessary  to  learn  the  min- 
utest details  of  any  business,  nor  imagine 
mat  success  in  any  business  can  be  attained 
without  a  thorough  training  for  it. 

Never  fail  to  be  courteous  in  all  busi- 
ness intercourse  ;  a  pleasant  manner  will  do 
much  to  insure  success. 

Never  insist  on  entering  any  business 
office,  if  told  that  its  occupant  is  not  at  lei- 
sure. Courtesy  requires  that  you  should 
Quietly  await  his  leisure,  or  offer  to  call 
again  if  time  will  not  permit  you  to  wait. 

Etiquette  of  the  Club. 

Doubtless,  while  there  are  few  members 
of  ciubs  who  do  not  have  a  sufficient  know- 
ledge of  the  rules  of  etiquette  governing 
them,  some  may  desire  information  on  cer- 
tain points,  and  it  is  for  the  benefit  of  the 
latter  that  the  following  brief  directions  are 
given  : 

All  members  should  become  familiar 
with  the  regulations,  and  rigidly  obey  them. 

You  have  a   full  right  to  vote  against 


the  admission  to  a  small  social  club  of  any 
one  whose  society  is  not  agreeable  tc  you. 
It  would  destroy  the  pleasure  of  such  a  club 
if  all  its  members  were  not  congenial.  Yet 
you  should  not  allow  personal  prejudice  to 
influence  you  in  voting  upon  the  admission 
of  a  new  member  of  a  large  club.  Is  the 
gentleman's  record  clear,  and  is  he  in  ah 
respects  a  worthy  associate  for  gentlemen  ? 
This  is  the  only  question  to  be  asked. 

Never  persistently  propose  for  member- 
ship of  a  small  club  a  name  that  has  been 
refused.  Avoid  any  conduct  likely  to  be 
disagreeable  or  disobliging  to  fellow-mem- 
bers. A  gentleman  should  be  as  courteous 
in  a  club-house  as  he  would  be  in  his  own. 

Do  not  talk  loudly  in  reading-rooms  or 
library,  and  never  misuse  books,  news- 
papers, nor  other  club  property. 

It  is  selfish  and  impolite  to  monopolize 
the  best  arm-chair,  to  make  a  practice  of 
dining  early  to  secure  an  extra  share  of  a 
favorite  dish,  or  to  require  special  attention 
from  waiters  to  the  discomfort  of  other 
guests. 

Avoid  showing  anger  in  political  or  re- 
ligious discussions,  or  making  a  personal 
matter  of  an  argument.  Do  not  seek  to 
force  your  opinions  on  others  against  their 
will. 

Never  mention  the  names  of  ladies  in  the 
club,  or  show  idle  curiosity  about  other 
members. 

Never  send  an  employee  out  of  the  club- 
house on  any  private  errand  without  first 
requesting  permission  of  the  clerk  or  super- 
intendent. 

If  the  guest  of  a  club,  do  not  take 
the  liberty  of  introducing  any  one  else  ;  but 
the  guest  of  a  club  is  expected  to  avail  him- 
self of  all  the  privileges  of  its  members. 

When  a  gentleman  is  admitted  to  the 
privileges  of  a  club  through  the  courtesy  of 
a  member,  he  is  expected,  when  his  tempo- 
rary membership  ceases,  to  pay  any  debts  he 
may  have  incurred,  for  if  he  omits  to  do 
this  his  club-host  is  obliged  to  settle  his 
account  for  him. 

Etiquette  of  Traveling. 

Ladies  should  wear  neat  traveling 
dresses  ofsuitable  material  and  simple  style, 
display   as   little  jewelry  as  possible,    and 


J99 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


carry  the  smallest  amount  of  baggage  by 
hand.  It  is  important  to  have  the  initials 
or  full  name  on  all  trunks. 

Never  attract  attention  by  loud  talking 
or  laughing,  and,  if  under  the  escort  of  a 
gentleman,  do  not  annoy  him  with  needless 
requests.  Always  repay  a  gentleman  any 
traveling  expenses,  no  matter  how  trivial. 

A  lady  when  traveling  alone,  should,  if 
possible,  arrange  to  be  met  at  the  station  by 
some  friend.  In  arriving  at  a  station  in  a 
large  city  where  she  is  a  stranger,  she  should 
avoid  taking  a  hack,  choosing  instead  horse- 
cars,  or  the  stages  plying  between  stations. 

While  always  acknowledging  with 
thanks  any  courtesy  offered,  young  ladies 
should  avoid  entering  into  unnecessary 
conversation  with  or  accepting  favors  from 
men  who  are  strangers. 

Older  ladies  are  privileged  to  offer  ad- 
vice or  assistance,  should  occasion  require, 
to  young  ladies  traveling  alone. 

It  is  courteous  for  a  gentleman  to  offer 
to  buy  tickets,  and  check  the  baggage  of  a 
lady  who  is  traveling  under  his  care  ;  but 
he  should  first  take  her  to  the  ladies'  wait- 
ing room,  not  leave  her  standing  on  a 
crowded  platform.  He  may  also  offer  to 
get  her  refreshments,  newspapers,  or  books, 
and — if  the  journey  is  a  long  one — invite 
her  to  walk  up  and  down  the  platform  at 
the  stations.  If,  by  any  accident,  the 
friends  expected  fail  to  meet  a  lady  at  the 
station,  the  gentleman  escorting  her  should, 
if  possible,  go  with  her  to  her  destination. 

A  gentleman  may  offer  to  help  a  lady, 
even  if  she  is  a  stranger,  whenever  she  seems 
really  in  need  of  aid.  For  instance,  if  she 
is  laden  with  many  parcels,  or  has  several 
children  with  her  who  must  be  transferred 
from  boat  to  car,  or  station  to  station. 

Two  gentlemen,  strangers  to  each  other, 
may  talk  together  if  agreeable  to  both  ;  but 
it  is  wise  to  discuss  only  general  topics. 

Gentlemen  may  offer  to  open  or  shut  a 
window  for  ladies  ;  but  should  never  pre- 
sume upon  a  chance  civility  thus  extended, 
by  attempting  to  use  it  as  a  means  of  enter- 
ing into  conversation  with  them.  While 
not  regarded  by  all  persons  as  obligatory, 
it  is  always  courteous  for  a  gentleman  to 
offer  his  seat  to  a  lady  who  is  standing  in 
any  public  conyeyance. 


No  gentleman  should  smoke  in  cars  (n 
other  places  when  ladies  are  present,  spit  on 
the  floors  in  cars  or  stations,  be  r'r.obliging 
in  a  smoking-car  by  refusing  to  change  his 
seat  to  accommodate  a  party  who  may  de- 
sire to  play  some  game,  or  accept  a  light, 
or  any  trifling  civility,  from  a  fellow  passen- 
ger, without  any  expression  of  thanks. 

Before  entering  boat,  train,  or  car,  give 
the  passengers  who  are  in  the  act  of  leaving 
time  to  get  off.  Before  taking  a  seat  just 
vacated  wait  a  sufiicient  time  to  see  if  its 
former  occupant  intends  to  return. 

It  is  ill-bred  to  complain  about  the  tri- 
vial discomforts  that  fall  to  every  traveler's 
lot,  and  make  uncomplimentary  compari- 
sons between  one's  own  home  and  the  place 
where  one  happens  to  be. 

Never  occupy  more  than  one  seat  in 
crowded  conveyances,  and  if  you  have 
placed  a  parcel  on  a  empty  seat,  cheerfully 
remove  it  whenever  it  is  needed.  Do  not 
take  the  seat  beside  any  person  in  a  steam- 
car  without  asking  if  it  is  engaged. 

Never  incommode  fellow- travelers  by 
opening  a  window  which  forces  them  to  sit 
in  a  draught — it  may  be  an  affair  of  life  and 
death  to  delicate  persons. 

Table  Etiquette  for  Children. 

It  may  not  be  out  of  place  to  add  here 
a  few  good  old  rules  for  children's  behavior 
at  table  which  can  safely  be  io.' lowed  : 

Give  the  child  a  seat  that  snail  be  strictly 
its  own. 

Teach  it  to  take  its  seat  auietly. 

To  use  its  napkin  properly. 

To  wait  patiently  to  be  served. 

To  answer  promptly. 

To  say  "  thank  you." 

If  asked  to  leave  the  table  for  a  forgot- 
ten article,  or  for  any  purpose,  to  do  so  at 
once. 

Never  to  interrupt  and  never  to  contra- 
dict. 

Never  to  make  remarks  about  the  food. 

Teach  the  child  to  keen  his  plate  \v 
order. 

Not  to  handle  the  bread  nor  to  drop 
food  on  the  cloth  and  floor. 

To  always  say  "  excuse  me,  please,"  to 
the  mother  when  at  home,  and  to  the  lady 


200 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


4^5 


or  hostess   when   visiting,   if  leaving    the 
table  before  the  rest  of  the  party. 

To  fold  its  napkin  and  to  put  back  its 
chair  or  push  it  close  to  the  table  before 
leaving. 


And  after  leaving  the  table  not  to  return. 

Children  who  observe  every  one  of  these 
rules    are    well-behaved,    delightful    com- 
panions, and  owe  it  to  their  mothers 's  care 
ful  training. 


XI.     FORMS   OF  INVITATIONS 


XI.     Forms  of  Invitations. 

In  issuing  invitations  for  any  occasion , 
they  should  be  sent  out  as  nearly  as  possi- 
ble together,  and  in  ample  season.  If  they 
be  for  a  large  reception,  dinner,  or  similar 
entertainment  it  is  best  to  send  them  a  week 
or  two  in  advance;  and  for  a  ball,  in  the 
height  of  the  season ,  two  or  three  weeks .  No 
one  should  be  invited  at  the  last  moment, 
except  it  be  an  intimate  friend,  who  can  be 
trusted  to  excuse  lack  of  ceremony. 

For  large  or  formal  occasions,  such  as 
dinners,  balls  and  receptions,  use  plain 
cards,  or  note-paper,  engraved  in  plain 
script.  It  the  invitations  be  written,  small 
white  note-paper,  of  the  best  quality,  should 
be  used,  and  the  writing  done  carefully, 
with  proper  attention  to  the  arrangement  of 
words. 

-Invitations  to  Parties. 

The  following  will  serve  as  a  correct 
form  for  a  note  of  invitation  to  a  private 
party  : 

Mrs.   William  H.  Johnson 

requests  the  pleasure  of 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  James  Browns'  company 

On  Thursday  eveni7ig,  April  eighth, 

from  ni7ie  to  twelve  o'clock. 

As  an  example  of  a  suitable  reply  we 
give  the  following : 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  fames  Brown  have  much 
pleasure  in  accepting  Mrs.  William  H.  fohn- 
son's  kind  invitatio7i  for  Thursday  eveni?ig, 
Ap?il  eighth. 

Or,  if  circumstances  render  it  necessary 
to  decline,  the  cause  of  declination  should 
be  courteously  stated,  as  follows : 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  fames  Brown  regret  that 
a  previous  engagement  to  dine  zvith  Mrs. 
Rowla?id  deprives  them  of  the  pleasure  of  ac- 
cepting Mrs.  William  fohnson'' s  kind  invita- 
tion for  Thursday  evening,  April  eighth. 


The  reasons  for  declining  may  be  very 
varied,  but  should  be  distinctly  stated.  "  A 
previous  engagement ' '  has  often  to  do  duty 
in  this  case. 

A  prompt  reply  must  invariably  be  made 
by  all  who  recognize  the  obligations  of 
courtesy,  and  it  may  be  well  to  give  one  or 
two  examples  of  an  uncivil  manner  of  re- 
plying, into  which  well-meaning  persons 
sometimes  fall  through  ignorance  or  care- 
lessness : 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Brown  regret  that  they  can- 
not accept  Mrs.  William  H .  fohnson' s  ijivita- 
lion  for  Friday  evening. 

A  still  ruder  form  is  :  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Brown  decline  Mrs.  fohnso7t' s  invitation  for 
Friday  eveni^ig. 

It  needs  little  knowledge  of  the  laws  of 
etiquette,  however,  co  teach  people  not  to 
commit  such  glaring  incivilities  as  the 
latter. 

A  simple  form  of  invitation  t©  an  even- 
ing party  is  the  following  : 

Thzirsday,  May  seventh. 
Mrs.  regit ests  the  pleasure  of  Mr. 


's  company  at  an  Evening  Party,  Thurs- 

day.  May  twenty-eighth. 

A71  a7iswer  tvill  oblige. 

Da7icing.  [Music,  or  any  special  attrac- 
tion] . 

The  answer,  which  should  be  returned 
within  a  day  or  two,  may  be  similarly  brief; 


Mr. has  7nuch  pleasiwe  i/i  accepting 

Mrs.  's  polite  i7ivitation  for  Thursday 

eve7ii7ig ,  the  twe7ity-eighth. 

Saturday,  May  niiith. 

Short  or  verbal  invitations  should  never 
be  given,  even  among  relations  and  intimate 
friends.  These  are  discourteous,  as  imply- 
ing that  the  persons  invited  are  of  no  im- 
portance. 


20  E 


201 


3" 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


Dinner  Invitations. 

Dinner  invitations  are  written  or  en- 
graved in  the  name  of  both  husband  and 
wife : 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Henry   Wilson 

request  the  pleastire  of 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Samuel  Clayton's  company  at 

dinner 

November  eighth,  at  seven  o'clock. 

An  acceptance  should  be  worded  as 
follows  : 

Mr.  a?id  Mfs.  Samuel  Clayton 

accept,  with  pleasure, 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Henry  Wilson' s  kind 

invitation  to  dine  with  them, 

on  Monday,  November  eighth,  at  seven  o'clock. 

An  invitation  to  dinner,  once  accepted, 
should  be  held  as  little  less  than  a  sacred 
obligation.  Only  disabling  sickness  or 
other  extreme  necessity  should  be  permitted 
to  stand  in  the  way  of  its  being  kept ;  and 
then,  if  time  permits,  immediate  notice, 
with  reason  for  same,  should  be  given.  A 
dinner  party  is  carefully  arranged  for  a  set 
number,  and  one  or  more  empty  chairs  are 
sure  to  disturb  the  completeness  of  the 
occasion,  and  cause  heartburnings  to  host 
and  hostess.  A  late  invitation  to  fill  the 
gap  is  usually  sent,  with  proper  explanation, 
to  some  friend  who  may  be  depended  upon 
to  overlook  the  informality. 

Invitations  should  be  issued  in  the  name 
of  the  hostess,  except  those  to  weddings  and 
dinner  parties. 

R.  S.  V.  P.,  the  initials  of  the  French 
phrase  "  Respondez,  s'il  vous  plait,"  or 
"  Please  reply,"  may  be  written  in  the 
light- hand  lower  corner  of  an  invitation  if 
an  answer  is  particularly  needed.  Its  use, 
however,  is  becoming  less  frequent,  since  it 
tacitly  implies  that  the  recipient  needs  a 
reminder.  In  a  dinner  invitation  it  is 
especially  unnecessary,  since  nothing  can 
be  more  discourteous  than  to  fail  in  an 
immediate  answer.  The  day  and  hour 
named  should  be  repeated  in  the  answer,  to 
avoid  possible  misunderstanding.  If  guests 
are  asked  to  meet  a  distinguished  gentle- 
man, or  lady,  this  should  be  mentioned  in 
the  card  of  invitation,  directly  after  the 
hour  of  dinner  ;  for  instance  : 


At  seven  o'clock,  to  meet 
Mr.  John  P.   Wallace, 
of  London. 

Or  an  extra  card  may  be  inserted  with  the 
regular  invitation,  saying,  "  to  meet  Mr. — ,'• 
etc. 

Here  is  an  example  of  an  invitation  to  a 
reception  specially  designed  for  this  pur- 
pose : 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Thomas  F.  Jacksoii 

request  the  honor  of  your  presence 

on 

Tuesday  evening,  November  fifteenth, 

from  eight  until  eleven  o'clock, 

to  meet  the 

Rev.  Professor  Patton 

of  the 

University  of  Pennsylvania, 

R.  S.   V.  P.  lie/  Locust  Avenue. 

Invitations  to  large  entertainments,  re- 
ceptions, etc.,  may  be  sent  to  persons  in 
mourning  if  the  bereavement  has  not  oc- 
curred within  a  month  ;  but  etiquette  per- 
mits them  to  refuse  without  assigning  a 
reason,  sending,  however,  on  the  day  of 
the  entertainment,  black -bordered  visiting- 
cards,  which  announce  the  cause  of  their 
absence.  Invitations  to  dinners  and  lunch- 
eons should  never  be  given  to  persons  in 
recent  affliction. 

Always  direct  an  answer  to  an  invitation 
to  the  person  or  persons  who  issue  it,  even 
though  they  may  be  strangers  to  you. 
Always  answer  an  invitation  to  dinner  or 
luncheon  at  once,  accepting  or  refusing 
positively.  The  reason  is  obvious ;  the 
number  of  seats  being  limited,  a  prompt 
reply  gives  the  entertainer  an  opportunity 
to  supply  your  place.  Should  illness,  a 
death  in  the  family,  or  any  other  reason 
prevent  the  keeping  of  a  dinner  engage- 
ment, a  letter  or  telegram  should  be  imme- 
diately sent,  stating  the  fact.  All  invita- 
tions, in  fact,  should  be  answered  with  as 
little  delay  as  possible. 

When  issuing  invitations  to  a  family, 
direct  one  to  the  husband  and  wife,  one  to 
the  daughters,  and  one  to  the  sons.  The 
daughters'  names  may  be  placed  after  the 
parents  on  the  same  card,  but  not  the  sons. 


202 


BOOK  OF  ETIOUETTE 


51 


Notes  of  invitation  to  a  gentleman  should 
be  addressed  Mr.  A.  B.  Cohen,  never  K.  B. 
Cohen,  Esq.  Gentlemen  must  never  be  in- 
vited without  their  wives,  nor  ladies  with- 
out their  husbands,  unless  to  entertainments 
given  exclusively  to  gentlemen  or  to  ladies. 

Small  Entertainments. 

Visiting-cards  must  not  be  used  either 
to  accept  invitations  or  to  regret  the  neces- 
sity of  declining  them,  though  invitations 
to  small  entertainments  may  with  propriety 
be  written  on  a  lady's  visiting-card. 

A  less  formal  mode  of  invitation  to  an 
evening  reception  may  be  the  following : 

Mrs.  Smith, 
At  Home, 
Tuesday,  May  ninth,  at  nine  0'' clock,  8^p 
Greeri  Street. 

If  dancing,  music,  or  other  entertain- 
ment is  provided,  it  can  be  mentioned  in  a 
word  at  the  bottom  of  the  invitation. 

We  append  below  an  invitation  to  a 
musical  and  card  party,  with  acceptance 
of  same  : 

Hilton,  January  i,  ipo2. 
Dear  Mrs.  NuttalIv  : 

We  purpose  having  a  small  party  for  imisic 
and  cards  7iext  Thursday ,  and  hope  that yoti, 
your  husband,  and  the  dear  girls  will  join  us. 
If  you  can  favor  us  with  your  company ,  please 
ask  the  young  ladies  to  bring  their  violins  and 
music,  ajid  do  710 1  be  later  than  eight  o' clock. 
We  unite  in  kindest  love  to  you  all. 
Believe  me,  most  affectionately  yours, 
Lois  Markley. 

accepting. 
My  Dear  Mrs.  Markley  : 

We  shall  have  mitch  pleasure  in  accepting 
your  kind  iyivitation  for  Thursday  next. 
Edith  desires  me  to  give  you  her  love,  and 
to  say  that  she  is  delighted  at  the  prospect  of  a 
musical  evening ;  she  will  bring  all  your 
favorite  selectio7is,  and  do  her  best  to  play 
them.  With  our  united  regards,  believe  me, 
yours  affectionately, 

SUSANA   NUTTALL. 

''The  Willows,'' 
January  twelfth,  ipo2. 


203 


Where  there  are  several  sisters  in  a 
family,  addressed  on  an  invitation  as  "  The 

Misses ,"  it  is  usually  understood  that 

not  more  than  two  of  them  will  avail  them- 
selves of  the  invitation. 

Invitations  for  any  general  entertainment 
sent  to  a  country  house  where  guests  are 
stopping,  are,  as  a  rule,  addressed  to  "  Mr. 

and  Mrs. ,  and  party,"  this  invitation 

being  expected  to  include  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  the  family  as  well  as  the  visit- 
ors. 

Form  of  English  Invitations. 

The  following  is  the  style  often  used  in 
England  for  invitations  to  garden  parties, 
etc.  : 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jones 

request  the  pleasure  of 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robinson's 

company  at  a  gardefi  party  on  Tuesday,  fune 

7iinth,  at  four  0'  clock. 

Collation  at  seve7i  0' clock. 
Da7icing  8  to  11 . 
10  Corson  Place.  R.  S.  V.  P. 

For  afternoon  teas,  etc. ,  the  visiting-card 
of  the  hostess,  with  simply  "Tea  at  four 
o'clock,"  and  the  date  in  the  left-hand  cor- 
ner, is  all  that  is  necessary,  or  possibly  "  At 
home  from  four  until  seven." 

Wedding  Invitations. 

Invitations  to  marriage  ceremonies  are 
issued  in  the  name  of  the  bride's  parents, 
or,  if  both  are  dead,  in  the  name  of  a  near 
relative  or  guardian.  Paper  without  crest 
or  monogram  is  considered  the  best  to  use 
so  far  as  good  taste  is  concerned.  The  ac- 
cepted form  is  as  follows  : 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robinson 

request  the  pleastire  {prho7ior~)  of  your  C077ipa7iy 

at  the  ma7'riage  of  their  daughter 

Mary  Burd 

to 

Mr.  James  Howard  Wilson, 

at  St.  fa7nes'  Church,  on  T7cesday ,  Ju7ie  te7ith, 

a t  tivelve  0' clock. 

Separate  cards  are  sent  if  the  wedding 
ceremony  is  to  be  followed  by  a  reception  at 
the  parents'  residence,  the  formula  used  be- 
ing "  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Smith  at  home,  etc/' 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


To  avoid  confusion  at  the  church  a  small 
card  is 'sometimes  enclosed  with  the  invita- 
tion, on  which  the  name  of  the  church  and 
the  hour  for  the  ceremony  are  printed. 
Such  cards  must  be  presented  at  the  door,  in 
order  that,  to  avoid  a  crowd,  only  such 
friends  as  have  received  invitations  to  the 
wedding  may  be  comfortably  seated. 

In  case  no  reception  is  given,  and  the 
newly-married  couple  wish  to  announce  to 
their  friends  their  new  abode,  a  card  in  the 
following  form  may  accompany  the  invita- 
tion : 

At  Home; 
Tuesdays  in  May. 

48g  Gree7i  Street 
Philadelphia. 

In  the  case  of  house  weddings,  or  when 
recent  bereavements  demand  that  the  wed- 
ding shall  be  private,  it  is  now  customary 
to  invite  intimate  friends  by  written  invita- 
tions, and  send  simple  announcements  of 
the  event  to  those  not  expected  to  be  present. 
In  such  cases  the  stationery  used  should  be 
of  the  same  quality  and  style  as  for  the 
invitations.  The  announcement  may  read 
as  follows : 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Harvey  Wellingtojt 

Announce  the  Marriage 

of  their  Daughter 

Catharine 

to 

Mr.  Jatnes  Howard, 

Saturday,  September  ninth. 

Philadelphia, 

ipo2. 

An  invitation  to  an  anniversary  wedding 
may  be  couched  in  the  following  form.  If 
no  presents  are  desired,  the  invitation  should 
explicitly  say  so,  otherwise  it  will  be  taken 
for  granted  that  they  will  be  acceptable  : 

iSjy  I  go 2 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ayidrew  Lewis 

request  yotir  presence 

at  the 

Twenty-fifth  Anniversary  of  their  Wedding 

Wed)icsday  Evening,  March  eighth, 

ip4.  Lombard  Aveyiue, 

New  York. 

No  presents. 


General  Invitations. 

In  addition  to  the  forms  of  invitation  to 
more  or  less  formal  occasions  above  given, 
notes  inviting  to  various  informal  meetings 
may  take  forms  familiar  or  the  reverse,  in 
accordance  with  the  degree  of  intimacy  of 
the  parties.'  A  few  forms  will  suflQce  as  ex- 
amples : 

New  York,fune8,  ipo2. 
My  dear  Mr.  Wilson  : 

A  few  of  us  are  arrangijig  for  a?i 
excursion  to  Bolton  Springs  on  the  i^th  inst. 
We  should  be  very  glad  to  have  you  as  one  of 
the  party.  We  shall  be  three  days  absent 
from  town.  If  you  can  make  it  convenient  to 
accompany  us,  we  are  sure  you  can  count  on 
an  enjoyable  time.  Be  kind  eiiough  to  let  me 
k7iow  within  a  day  or  two,  a7id  believe  me 
Sincerely  yours, 

A.B. 

lo  Brown  Street, 
New  York,  December  i8,  igoi. 
Dear  Mr.   Wilsofi  : 

Can  you  make  it  convenient  to  run 
over  to  New  York  on  Christmas  day,  and  drop 
in  on  our  small fa^nily  party  f  You  can  cou?it 
on  a  hearty  welcome,  and  a  fair  allowance  of 
the  enjoy 7nents  of  the  seaso7i. 

Yours  very  truly, 

Henry  Smith. 

As  examples  of  more  familiar  notes  of 
invitation,  between  intimate  friends,  the 
following  will  suffice  : 

Dear  Harry : 

So77ie  of  us  are  expecti7ig  to  spend  a  few 
hours  jovially ,  next  Wednesday  eve7iing  with 
a  glass  of  wine  a7id  a  cigar  as  enlive7iers .  I 
hope  you  will  make  07ie  of  the  party,  a7id  shall 
hold  a  chair  for  y  071. 

Yours  as  ever 

Will. 
Dear  foh7i : 

Our  old  frie7id  Harvey  Wilso7i  has  J7ist 
got  ho77ie  f-om  his  Western  trip.  I  have 
asked  hi7n  a7id  his  cousi7i  fames  to  take  a  chop 
with  vie  to-mo7'7'ow  at  six  p.  in.,  a7id  wa7it 
y  071  as  a  good  fourth.  Do7i' t  fail  me.  You 
know  what  a  good  fellow  Wilso7i  is. 

Yours  faithfully , 

H.  P.  fones. 
204 


LIUUK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


»» 


My  Dear  Mary  : 

A  few  friends  will  be  with  us  on  Friday 
evenings  the  8th  inst. ,  to  share  a  social  cup  of 
tea  and  have  an  hour'' s  chat.  Can  we  count 
^n  the  pleasure  of  your  company  ? 

f.  S.  White. 

My  Dear  fennie : 

Your  kind  request  is  at  hand.  I  shall  be 
glad  to  accept  it,  and  hope  to  eyijoy  both  the 
lea  and  the  chat. 

Yours  cordially, 

Mary  Moore. 

My  Dear  Sir : 

We  start  next  Tuesday  for  the  Cats  kills, 
by  private  conveyance .  There  is  room  for  one 
more  in  our  carriage,  and  we  should  be  glad 
to  have yoic  fill  the  vacant  space.  I  trust  no 
inconvenie7it  engagement  will  hinder  your 
acceptance. 

Yours  socially, 

William  Black. 
Mr.  S.  D.  Henderson. 


Invitation  to  a  Carriage  Ride. 

Hillsdale,  Ohio,  October  j,  ipoi . 
My  dear  Miss  Barry  : 

In  these  bracifig  Autumn  days,  when  the 
foliage  is  so  beaiUiful,  I  am  sure  you  will 
enjoy  a  ride  for  an  hour  or  more.  It  will 
give  me  great  pleasure  to  have  your  company 
for  a  ride  on  Saturday  afternoon  next,  and 
I  hope  you  will  have  710  previous  e^igagement 
at  that  ti?ne. 

Sijicerely  yours , 

Francis  Thome. 

Reply  of  Lady  to  Invitation. 

"  The  Cedars.'' 
Dear  Mr.  Thorne  : 

It  is,  indeed,  very  kind  of  yott  to  think  of 
my  pleasure.  The  prospect  of  a  ride  for  Sat- 
urday afternoon  is  very  attractive. 

I  shall  be  pleased  to  go  with  you,  and  shall 
await  you  at  three  o'clock  Saturday. 
Sincerely, 

Bertha  Barry . 
October  fourth,  ipoi. 


XII.    ART   OF  LETTER-WRITING 


A  correspondence  between  two  persons 
is  simply  a  conversation  reduced  to  writing. 
We  should  write  to  an  absent  person  as  we 
would  speak  to  the  same  party  if  present. 
To  a  superior,  we  ought  to  be  respectful ;  to 
a  parent,  dutiful  and  affectionate ;  to  a  friend, 
frank  and  easy  ;  and  clear  and  definite  in  our 
expressions  to  all. 

Conciseness  is  one  of  the  charms  of 
letter-writing.  A  letter  should  contain  the 
desired  facts,  ideas,  and  feelings  ;  but  they 
ought  to  be  expressed  as  briefly  as  per- 
spicuity and  elegance  will  permit. 

Lengthened  periods  are  as  much  out  of 
place  in  a  letter  as  they  would  be  in  conver- 
sation, for  they  tire  the  reader  even  more 
than  they  would  the  hearer.  When  written , 
their  faults  are  also  perceived  with  much 
less  difficulty  than  when  spoken. 

When  the  party  to  whom  a  letter  is  ad- 
dressed is  uninterested  in  the  subject  on 
which  it  is  written,  the  writer  of  it  should 
display  a  brevity  which  will  attract  atten- 
tion and  insure  a  perusal.  No  unnecessary 
ornament  should  be  used,  nor,  in  fact,  any- 


205 


thing  introduced  but  what  is  important  and 
bears  strongly  on  the  case  stated,  or  the 
inquiry  made. 

To  an  absent  friend,  on  the  contrary,  a 
lengthy  epistle,  well  filled  with  details  of 
passing  incidents,  is  likely  to  prove  welcome 
and  interesting,  and  one  may  venture  even 
upon  prolixity  if  sure  that  his  correspondent 
has  a  strong  interest  in  the  subject,  and  is 
likely  to  desire  minute  details  concerning  it. 

Style  in  Correspondence. 

The  style  of  the  letter  may  rise  with  the 
subject,  and  with  the  character  of  the  person 
written  to.  In  a  familiar  epistle  an  effort 
at  dignity  of  style  is  misplaced,  but  such  is 
not  the  case  where  the  person  addressed  is 
superior  in  position  or  character,  or  where 
the  subject  is  one  demanding  seriousness 
and  dignity.  For  instance,  the  death  of  a 
friend  or  relation,  a  calamity,  or  any  cir- 
cumstance of  grave  importance,  should  not 
be  communicated  in  the  same  manner  as  a 
trifling  occurrence,  or  even  a  happy  event : 


tf4 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


brevity,  in  the  latter  case,  is  beauty  ;  in  the 
former,  it  would  be  deemed  unfeeling  and 
abrupt. 

Express  your  thoughts  in  simple  English 
and  in  legible  writing.  The  latter  should 
be  clear  and  bold.  Never  write  carelessly 
or  hurriedly ;  read  the  letter  over  before 
sending  ;  and,  if  writing  more  than  one  let- 
ter at  a  time,  be  cautious  that  such  are  not 
put  in  the  wrong  envelopes.  Great  atten- 
tion should  be  paid  to  correct  punctuation. 

As  to  writing  material,  the  shape  and 
size  of  paper  and  envelopes  are  not  so  im- 
portant as  the  quality.  They  should  be 
plain  white,  with  no  colored  border  (except 
the  black  border  when  in  mourning),  and 
of  substantial  texture.  The  address  of  the 
writer,  printed  neatly  at  the  head  of  the 
sheet,  should  take  the  place  of  any  attempt 
at  ornament. 

Fold  all  letters  evenly,  and  put  the  stamp 
in  the  upper  right-hand  corner.  Remember 
to  enclose  a  stamp  when  writing  to  a  stranger 
concerning  your  own  affairs.  Use  postal 
cards  only  for  ordinary  business  communi- 
cations ;  never  for  friendly  correspondence 
or  in  writing  to  any  one  who  might  be 
annoyed  by  having  his  or  her  occupation 
made  public. 

Take  the  trouble  to  spell  correctly.  Be 
careful  to  write  dates,  numbers  and  proper 
names  plainly.  Date  a  note,  at  the  conclu- 
sion, on  the  left-hand  side  of  the  page;  a 
letter  at  the  beginning,  on  the  right  hand. 
Sign  a  letter  with  a  full  name,  or  with  the 
last  name  and  initials.  In  business  corre- 
spondence sign  "yours respectfully,"  "your 
obedient  servant,"  "yours  truly,"  or  "yours 
sincerely."  Place  the  name  and  address  of 
your  correspondent  at  the  upper  left-hand 
corner  of  the  page. 

Let  your  signature  suit  the  style  of  the 
letter — a  business  communication  should 
bear  a  formal,  a  friendly  note,  a  cordial  con- 
clusion. Between  intimate  friends  and  rel- 
atives no  formal  rule  is  laid  down  for  the 
beginning  and  ending  of  letters.  The 
etiquette  of  letter-writing  should  only  be 
considered  between  strangers  or  slight  ac- 
quaintances. In  these  cases  it  is  well  to 
preserve  a  mean  between  cold  formality  and 
familiarity. 


Forms  of  Address. 

The  conventional  forms  are  "Sir,' 
"Dear  Sir,"  "My  Dear  Sir,"  or  "Ma- 
dam," "Dear  Madam,"  or  "My  Dear 
Madam."  Either  of  these  can  be  used, 
but  to  a  total  stranger  ' '  My  Dear  Sir ' '  is 
rather  too  cordial,  and  to  an  acquaintance 
"  Sir  "  is  too  formal,  unless  there  is  a  pur- 
pose to  convey  coldness  of  feeling.  When 
writing  to  persons  of  your  own  social  class, 
though  strangers,  "  Dear  Sir"  or  "  Dear 
Madam  "  are  used  in  preference  to  "  Sir  " 
or  "  Madam." 

A  married  lady  should  not  sign  herself 
"Mrs.",  nor  an  unmarried  one  "Miss," 
except  in  writing  to  a  stranger  who  will 
need  to  reply.  In  this  case  the  full  name 
should  be  signed,  as  "  Miss  Susan  Blake," 
or  "  Mrs.  Mary  Brown."  Mrs.  and  Miss 
may  be  enclosed  in  parenthesis.  Letters  to 
married  ladies  are  usually  addressed  with 
the  initials  or  names  of  the  husband,  ' '  Mrs. 
John  P.  Smith,"  etc.  Widows  and  unmar- 
ried ladies  should  only  be  addressed  with 
their  christian  names,  "  Mrs.  Mary  Smith  " 
or  "Miss  Fanny  Jones."  The  eldest 
daughter  or  unmarried  lady  of  the  family 
should  be  addressed  "Miss"  simply,  the 
christian  name  being  omitted.  "  Mr."  and 
' '  Esq. ' '  cannot  be  used  simultaneously.  A 
letter  must  be  addressed  either  like  the  fol- 
lowing examples,  to  "  Mr.  R.  H.  Smith" 
or  to  "  R.  H.  Smith,  Esq."  When  a  letter 
is  addressed  to  the  Hon.  James  Blank,  the 
' '  Esq. ' '  must  not  follow. 

Never  use  the  husband's  title  in  direct- 
ing a  letter  to  the  wife,  as  "Mrs.  Gen. 
James  Bancroft,"  or  "Mrs.  Rev.  John 
Pearl." 

Do  not  cross  a  letter,  put  the  most  im- 
portant part  of  it  in  a  postscript,  or  sign  it 
in  the  first  person,  if  it  has  been  written  in 
the  third.  Never  fail  to  answer  promptly, 
in  case  the  communication  requires  an 
answer. 

When  a  note  is  commenced  ' '  Sir  ' '  or 
"Dear  Sir,"  it  is  usual  to  write  the  name 
of  the  person  addressed  at  the  end  of  the 
letter  or  note  in  the  left-hand  corner,  or  it 
may  be  put  before  the  commencement ;  foi 
instance,  "To  R.  H.  Smith,  Esq.,"  but  in 
this  case  it  must  not  be  repeated  at  the 
bottom. 


206 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


55 


A  son  of  the  same  name  as  his  father 
is  addressed  in  this  way  :  "  R.  H.  Smith, 
Jr.,  Ksq." 

L,etters  or  notes  to  servants  usually  be- 
gin with  the  servant's  name,  and  then  the 
directions  follow  in  the  third  person  ;  ex- 
ample :  ' '  To  Mary  Smith  :  Mrs .  Brown 
will  return  home  on  Saturday  next,  ^tc." 

Address  a  clergyman  "  Reverend  Sir  " 
or  "  Dear  Sir,"  and  direct  the  envelope  to 
"  Rev.  John  Blank;  "  or  if  the  initial  is 
not  known,  to  "  Rev. Blank." 

Address  a  doctor  of  divinity  ' '  To  the 
Rev.  John  Hall,  D.D.,"  or  the  "  Rev.  Dr. 
Hall." 

Address  a  doctor  of  medicine  "J.  B. 
Blank,  M.D.,"  or  "  Dr.  J.  B.  Blank,"  or 
"  Dr.  Blank." 

Address  a  bishop  "To  the  Right  Rev. 

the  Bishop  of  ,"   or   "To   the  Right 

Rev.  H.  C.  Potter,  D.D.,  Bishop  of 


and  begin  the  letter  "  Right  Rev.  Sir,"  or 
"  Right  Rev.  and  Dear  Sir." 

Address  foreign  ministers  as  ' '  His  Ex- 
cellency and  Honorable." 

lyCtters  to  the  President  should  be  ad- 
dressed "To  His  Excellency,  the  President 
of  the  United  States,"  or  "  President  of  the 
United  States." 

Cabinet  officers  should  be  addressed 
"To  the  Honorable  J.  C.  Blank,  Secretary 
of  State,"  "To  the  Hon.  ,  the  Post- 
master-General," etc. 

In  writing  to  Senators  or  members  of  the 
House,  address  "  To  the  Hon. ." 

Officers  of  the  army  or  navy  are  ad- 
dressed by  their  titles,  as  "  General  Wilson 
Earle,"  "  Captain  Paul  Jones,"  Admiral 
William  Harvey,"  etc.  The  members  of  a 
college  faculty  are  addressed  as  ' '  Profes- 
sor," and  their  particular  title  may  be  ad- 
ded after  the  name,  as  "D.D. ",  "I,Iv.D," 
etc.  This  addition  of  titular  abbreviations 
applies  as  well  to  scientists,  physicians,  and 
all  others  whose  special  college  title  may  be 
known  to  the  writer. 

Letters  of  Recommendation. 

A  letter  of  recommendation  should  be 
composed  with  careful  attention  to  its  state- 
ments. It  is  a  guarantee  for  the  party 
recommended,  and  truth  should  never  be 
sacrificed  to  condescension,  false   kindness 


or  politeness.  To  write  a  letter  of  recom- 
mendation contrary  to  one's  own  opinion 
and  knowledge  of  the  person  recommended, 
is  to  be  guilty  of  a  great  imprudence. 

To  say  all  that  is  necessary,  in  a  clear 
and  distinct  manner,  and  nothing  more,  is 
the  grand  merit  of  a  letter  on  business  of 
any  kind.  Pleasantry  and  pathos  would  be 
greatly  misplaced  in  it,  unless  it  embraced 
some  other  subject  than  the  business  one. 
Brilliant  diction  is  a  dress  in  which  direc- 
tions on  business  should  never  be  clothed. 
The  style  ought  to  be  precise,  sufficiently 
copious  to  leave  no  uncertainty,  but  not  re- 
dundant. Every  thing  necessary  should  be 
stated,  plainly  and  unequivocally ;  so  that 
the  party  addressed  may  be  in  full  posses- 
sion of  our  desires  and  opinions  on  the  sub- 
ject involved.  Ambiguity  is  nowhere  so 
unpardonable  as  in  a  letter  on  business. 

Letters  of  Introduction.   ' 

Letters  of  introduction  are  one  of  the 
common  methods  of  establishing  social  rela- 
tions. The  person  who  is  not  known  to 
your  friend  can  become  known  through 
your  kind  offices.  In  this  way,  very  often, 
important  services  can  be  rendered. 

Never  give  a  letter  of  introduction  un- 
less you  thoroughly  understand  the  charac- 
ter and  manners  of  the  person  to  whom  you 
write  the  letter  and  also  of  the  person  whom 
the  letter  introduces. 

You  have  no  right,  to  avoid  giving  of- 
fence, or  through  sheer  inability  to  say  no 
to  a  request,  to  foist  upon  your  distant 
friend  some  one  for  whose  acquaintance  he 
will  not  thank  you  and  who  may  prove  a 
very  undesirable  visitor.  If  one  or  the 
other  of  the  two  parties  concerned  must  be 
offended,  let  it  be  the  applicant.  You  can 
usually  give  some  sufficient  reason  for  de- 
clining— but  decline  in  any  event,  if  the 
person  is  likely  to  prove  objectionable. 

As  such  a  letter  cannot  well  enter  into 
particulars,  it  is  customary  and  desirable  to 
notify  your  friend  by  mail  of  the  fact  that 
you  have  given  a  letter  of  introduction  to 
such  a  person,  and  tell  him  what  further  it 
is  well  for  him  to  know  concerning  the 
character  and  purpose  of  his  probable  visi- 
tor. If  you  have  given  such  a  letter  to  a 
party  of  whom  you  do  not  approve,  all  that 


207 


56 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


remains  is  to  warn  your  friend  privately, 
placing  him  on  his  guard  against  a  possibly 
objectionable  person. 

A  letter  of  introduction  (unless  sent  by 
mail)  should  be  delivered,  unsealed,  by  the 
writer  of  the  letter  to  the  bearer  of  the  in- 
troduction, and  should  be  closed  by  the 
latter  before  delivery  to  the  party  to  whom 
it  is  addressed.  If  purely  a  business  intro- 
duction and  one  which  can  be  delivered 
personally,  it  may  remain  unsealed. 

The  bearer  of  a  letter  of  introduction 
should  send  it  to  the  house  of  the  person  to 
whom  it  is  addressed,  together  with  a  card 
on  which  should  be  written  his  address.  It 
is  not  in  order  to  deliver  it  in  person,  since 
this  may  force  the  party  addressed  into  a 
position  which  he  may  prefer  to  decline.  It 
does  not  follow,  because  a  friend  has  chosen 
to  introduce  you  to  another,  that  this  other 
may  not  have  private  reasons  for  declining 
your  acquaintance,  or  may  be  prevented 
from  seeing  and  entertaining  you  by  stress 
of  other  engagements.  If  he  lives  in  a  large 
city,  the  letter  may  make  him  feel  obliged 
to  escort  you  to  the  various  places  of  in- 
terest, or  in  any  case  to  invite  you  to  meals 
or  other  entertainments.  We  should  not 
tax  the  time  or  the  purse  of  a  friend,  except 
for  a  satisfactory  reason. 

The  letter  delivered,  there  is  nothing 
more  to  be  done  until  the  party  receiving  it 
calls  upon  you  or  sends  you  some  card  or 
note  of  invitation.  Those  who  receive  such 
letters  should,  within  twenty- four  hours,  if 
possible,  take  some  kindly  notice  of  them  by 
a  call  or  an  invitation. 

A  letter  of  introduction  must  be  care- 
fully worded,  stating  clearly  the  name  of 
the  person  introduced,  but  with  as  few  per- 
sonal remarks  as  possible.  It  suffices  in 
most  cases  to  say  that  the  bearer  is  a  friend 
of  yours,  whom  you  trust  your  other  friend 
will  receive  with  attention,  or  you  may  state 
his  profession,  object  in  traveling,  etc.  In 
traveling,  one  cannot  have  too  many  letters 
of  introduction.  It  is  the  custom  in  foreign 
towns  for  the  newcomer  to  call  on  the  resi- 
dents first,  a  hint  that  may  prove  acceptable 
to  persons  contemplating  a  long  or  short 
residence  abroad. 

A  letter  of  introduction  of  a  business 
nature   may  be   delivered  by  the  bearer  in 


person,  since  it  requires  no  social  obliga- 
tions. In  style  it  should  resemble  other 
business  letters  ;  that  is,  it  should  be  brief 
and  to  the  point. 

If  a  stranger  sends  you  a  letter  of  intro- 
duction, and  his  or  her  card  (for  the  law  of 
etiquette  here  holds  good  for  both  sexes), 
good  form  requires  that  you  should  not  only 
call  next  day,  but  follow  up  that  attention 
by  others.  If  you  are  in  a  position  to  do  so, 
the  next  correct  proceeding  is  to  send  an 
invitation  to  dinner.  Should  circumstances 
not  render  this  available,  you  can  probably 
escort  the  stranger  to  some  exhibition,  con- 
cert, public  building,  museum,  or  other  place 
likely  to  prove  interesting  to  a  foreigner  or 
provincial  visitor.  In  short,  etiquette  de- 
mands that  you  shall  exert  yourself  to 
show  kindness  in  some  desirable  way  to  the 
stranger,  out  of  compliment  to  the  friend 
who  introduced  him  to  you. 

If  you  invite  strangers  to  dinner  or  tea, 
it  is  a  higher  compliment  to  ask  others  to 
meet  them  than  to  dine  with  them  alone. 
You  thereby  afford  them  an  opportunity  of 
making  other  acquaintances,  and  are  assist- 
ing your  friend  in  still  further  promoting 
the  purpose  for  which  he  gave  the  introduc- 
tion to  yourself.  Be  careful  at  the  same 
time  only  to  ask  such  persons  as  you  are 
quite  sure  are  the  stranger's  own  social 
equals. 

Letters  of  Congratulation  or  Condolence. 

Epistles  of  this  kind  need  to  be  very 
carefully  written.  Unless  there  is  some 
actual  sympathy  in  the  mind  of  the  writer, 
they  had  better,  in  many  cases,  be  left  un- 
written, since  they  may  serve  the  opposite 
purpose  to  that  designed.  A  verbal  expres- 
sion of  feeling,  where  there  is  no  feeling,  is 
apt  to  fail  of  its  intention.  If  such  a  letter 
prove  difficult  to  compose,  it  is  likely  to 
seem  studied,  cold,  and  formal.  Simplicity 
and  ease  of  expression  are  necessary  ele- 
ments in  a  note  of  condolence  or  compli- 
ment. 

A  letter  of  congratulation  should  avoid 
any  indication  of  other  than  unselfish  good 
feeling  in  the  writer.  The  slightest  show  of 
envy  or  jealousy  at  the  good  fortune  of  those 
whom  we  felicitate  is  unpardonable.  It 
should  on  no  account  contain  a  hint  of  any 


20a 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


57 


hope  that  the  advancement,  or  change  of 
situation,  tipon  which  the  compliment  is 
made,  may  afiford  the  person  addressed  the 
means  of  conferring  a  benefit  on  the  party 
writing. 

Such  a  letter  should,  in  fact:  be  an  un- 
mixed expression  of  pleasure  and  congratu- 
lation on  the  event  that  calls  for  its  pro- 
duction. But  care  must  be  taken  to  keep 
within  due  bounds ;  to  exaggerate  in  our 
congratulations  may  be  to  seem  satirical. 

In  a  letter  of  congratulation  we  should 
be  cheerful ;  from  an  epistle  of  condolence 
all  pleasantry  should  be  banished.  When 
addressing  a  person  who  is  laboring  under 
any  grievous  calamity,  it  is  bad  taste  to 
make  light  of  it ;  to  treat  that  loss  as  a 
matter  which  might  be  endured  calmly,  by 
a  little  firmness  on  the  part  of  the  party 
who  has  su£fered  it,  has  the  effect  to  irritate 
rather  than  soothe.  One  should  seek  to 
enter  into  the  feelings  of  the  mourner,  to 
eulogize  the  departed  relation,  to  rebuke 
the  ingratitude  of  the  false  friend,  to  confess, 
the  inconstancy  of  fortune,  or  otherwise, 
according  to  the  circumstances  ;  and,  with- 
out magnifying,  to  lament  the  affliction. 

Language  like  this  is  balm  to  the 
wounded  mind,  which  rejects  consolation 
from  those  who  do  not  seem  sensible  of  the 
extent  of  the  sorrow  under  which  it  labors. 
But  such  a  subject  must  be  treated  with  a 
delicate  hand,  for  an  exaggerated  expression 
of  sympathy  may  give  the  appearance  of 
insincerity,  and  of  a  strained  endeavor  to 
condole.  In  such  a  case  it  may  aggravate 
the  depression  which  it  seeks  to  remove. 

Replying  to  Letters. 

Every  letter,  that  is  not  insulting,  merits 
a  reply,  if  it  be  required  or  necessary.  If 
the  letter  contains  a  request,  it  should 
either  be  acceded  to  gracefully  and  without 
ostentation,  or  refused  without  harshness. 
An  answer  to  a  letter  of  condolence  or  of 
congratulation  should  be  grateful.  The 
subjects  should  succeed  each  other  in  proper 
order,  and  the  questions  put  be  consecu- 
tively answered.  In  familiar  correspond- 
ence a  greater  latitude  of  arrangement  is 
allowed ;  but  even  in  this  no  question 
should  be  left^  unanswered.     In  all  replies  it 


209 


is  usual  to  acknowledge  the  receipt,  and  to 
mention  the  date,  of  the  last  letter  received: 
if  this  be  neglected,  your  correspondent  may 
be  left  in  doubt,  and  ma}^  through  mis- 
understanding, hold  you  guilty  of  some 
offense. 

Punctuation. 

Punctuation  is  a  matter  of  the  utmost 
importance  in  every  species  of  literary  com- 
position ;  without  it  there  can  be  no  clear- 
ness, strength,  or  accuracy.  Its  utility 
consists  in  separating  the  different  portions 
of  what  is  written  in  such  a  manner  that 
the  subjects  may  be  properly  classed  and 
subdivided,  so  as  to  convey  the  precise 
meaning  of  the  writer  to  the  reader.  It 
shows  the  relation  which  the  various  parts 
bear  to  each  other,  unites  such  as  ought  to 
be  connected,  and  keeps  apart  such  as  have 
no  mutual  dependence. 

It  is  much  to  be  lamented  that  so  little 
attention  is  paid  to  this  important  subject. 
As  there  is  no  positive  system  of  punctu- 
ation to  direct  the  writer,  the  modern  edi- 
tions of  good  authors  should  be  carefully 
studied,  in  order  to  acquire  the  leading 
principles  of  the  art.  The  construction  of 
sentences  may  be  examined,  and  the  mode 
adopted  of  dividing  them  attended  to  with 
considerable  advantage. 

One  cannot  expect,  perhaps,  in  this 
manner  to  become  an  expert  in  punctua- 
tion, but  may  grow  suflSciently  familiar  with 
its  essential  elements  to  make  no  serious 
errors.  The  mode  of  placing  punctuation 
marks  permits  of  considerable  latitude,  and 
it  is  advisable  not  to  be  too  profuse  in  their 
employment.  The  use  of  the  comma  is  fre- 
quently very  faulty  through  carelessness 
in  this  particular,  dividing  parts  of  sen- 
tences which  naturally  cohere,  and  being 
dropped  in  the  centre  of  a  phrase  in  which 
it  is  absurdly  out  of  place.  The  natural 
halting  points  for  the  reader,  or  slight 
breaks  in  the  sense,  should  be  duly  consid- 
ered, and  a  mark  placed  in  consonance  with 
the  degree  of  this  break.  The  comma  and 
the  dash  do  duty  with  many  as  the  only 
elements  of  punctuation,  the  latter  being 
much  over  used,  through  a  desire  to  escape 
the  necessity  of  considering  the  proper 
mark  required. 


58 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


Postscripts. 

Lady  writers  have  been  accused,  and 
perhaps  with  some  reason,  of  often  reserv- 
ing the  most  important  part  of  a  letter  for 
the  postscript.  It  is  an  accusation  which 
they  should  avoid  giving  cause  for.  Post- 
scripts are,  for  the  most  part,  needless,  and 
in  bad  taste.  It  is  best  to  pause  a  few  mo- 
ments before  concluding  a  letter,  and  reflect 
whether  we  have  anything  more  to  say. 
Above  all  things,  none  should  defer  civili- 
ties or  kind  inquiries  to  this  justly-despised 
part  of  a  letter.  To  do  so  is  a  proof  of 
thoughtlessness  or  disrespect.     "  My  kind- 


est regards  to  my  cousin  lyucy,"  added  as  a 
postscript,  looks  like  what  it  really  is — an 
after-thought ;  and  is,  therefore,  not  only 
without  value,  but,  to  persons  of  fine  feel- 
ings, offensive. 

To  all  writers  something  will  bccasion- 
ally  occur,  after  finishing  the  letter,  which 
it  is  important  to  state.  If  to  have  for- 
gotten it  implies  no  disrespect  it  may 
properly  be  added  as  a  postscript.  But  if 
it  should  indicate  a  forgetfulness  which 
may  possibly  offend  the  recipient,  the  whole 
letter  had  better  be  rewritten,  and  the 
after-thought  put  in  its  proper  place. 


XIII.     FORMS  OF  CORRESPONDENCE. 


Having  given  in  the  preceding  sections 
some  hints  as  to  letter-writing  and  examples 
of  notes  of  invitation,  acceptance,  and  de- 
clination, it  seems  important  to  append  some 
more  diversified  examples  of  letter-writing 
and  correspondence,  as  brief  guides  to  a 
broad  domain  of  social  duty  and  obligation. 
Letters  of  this  kind  are  endlessly  diversified 
in  form  and  purpose,  and  a  few  examples, 
chosen  largely  at  random,  mustsufl&ce. 

Ordering  Goods. 

In  ordering  goods  be  careful  to  state  ex- 
actly what  you  want,  and  whether  you  wish 
goods  delivered  by  freight  or  express. 

It  is  customary  in  writing  orders  to  use 
abbreviations  for  mercantile  terms  which  are 
known  among  business  men. 

Should  you  wish  to  ask  any  questions  or 
to  make  suggestions,  write  these  upon  a 
separate  sheet  from  the  order  itself 

Send  your  order  some  time  before  you 
need  the  goods,  so  that  you  may  not  suffer 
on  account  of  any  slight  delay  upon  the 
sender's  part. 

Da7iville,  Va.,  Dec.  20,  igoj. 
Strawbridge  &  Clothier^ 
Philadelphia,  Pa. 
Dear  Sirs  : 

E7iclosed  find  draft  for  $y^  on  First  Na- 
tional Bank  of  Danville,  for  zvhich  please  for- 
ward by  U.  S.  Express  : 

6  pairs  White  Kid  Gloves,  No.  6. 
J  pairs  Brown  Kid  Gloves,  No.  6. 


I  dozen  Linen  Handkerchiefs  lady's  size. 
I  $  yards  of  Silk  like  sample  enclosed. 
The  amount  overpaid  in  my  remittance  you 
may  place  to  my  credit  subject  to  future  orders. 
Respectftdly , 

{^Mrs^  fulia  D.  Brown. 

Application  for  a  Situation  as  Teacher. 

Salina,  Kansas ,  fuly  ^ ,  igo2. 
Gentlemen  : 

Understanding  that  a  vacancy  for  the 
sitiiation  of  teacher  in  yoiir  school  has 
occurred,  I  beg  to  offer  myself  as  a  candidate, 
and  to  inclose  my  certificate  and  letters  of  rec- 
ommendation fro7n  persons  you  no  doubt 
hiow.  While  I  feel  that  these  can  better 
speak  for  me  than  I  can  for  myself,  I  venture 
to  assure  you  that,  shoiild  you  appoint  me  to 
the  position,  I  shall  strive  to  discharge  my 
duties  earnestly  aiid  steadily,  ayid  shall  ever 
?'emai7i, 

Your  grateful  and  obcdie7it  serva7it, 

fea7iette  Wilson. 
To  the  Trustees  or  Pri7icipal  of  School. 

Introducing  a  Young    Lady  Seeking 
Employment. 

Brooklyn,  May  2,  190J. 
Dear  Mr.  Martin  : 

This  will  i7itroduce  to  you  my  friend  Miss 
Mabel  Beeche77i,  who  is  desirous  of  obtaini?ig 
employ77ie7it  i7i  your  city.  I  use  our  old 
acquai7ita7iceship  to  i7iterest  you  i7i  her  behalf. 
She  has  7-eceived  a  very  liberal  education ,  a7id 
would  prove  of  great  value  to  a  family  whose 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


59 


young  children  need  careful  a7id  judicious 
teaching.  She  is  gentle,  amiable,  and  willing. 
I  trust  you  will  be  able  to  serve  her,  and  I 
shall  greatly  appreciate  the  attentio7i  you  may 
give  her. 

Very  truly, 

Barclay  Jones. 
To  Mr.  Joseph  Martin, 

2173   Pine  Street  Philadelphia ,  Pa. 

Introducing  a  Friend. 

St.  Louis,  Mo.,  Jan.  J,  ipoi. 
Dear  James  B.  : 

This  letter  will  introduce  to  you  my  dear 
frieyid  William  White,  who  is  to  be  in  your 
city  for  a  few  days  on  business  and  pleasure. 
I  desire  him  to  meet  you  and  trust  it  will  be 
co?ive7iientfor you  to  give  him,  a  few  moments 
of  your  time. 

A7iy  atte7ition  you  give  hiTTt  during  his 
stay  in  Chicago  will  be  greatly  appreciated  by 
Your  friend, 

Charles  F.  Jenkins. 
Mr.  Jam,es  B.  Smith, 

14.1  Wabash  Avenue,  Chicago. 

Short  Form  of  Introduction. 

Chicago,  III.,  June  11,  ipoo. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  the  ho7ior  of  introducing  to  your 
acquainta7ice  Mr.  Frank  Ward,  whom  I  com- 
mend to  your  ki7id  attention. 

Very  truly  yours, 

William  S.  French. 
Mr.  Benj.  F.  Strong, 
Detroit,  Mich. 

Cong^ratulating  a    Gentleman   Upon    His 
Marriage. 

Wil7ni7igton,  Ohio,  Sept.  12,  ipoo. 
Dear  Frank  : 

I  have  just  received  the  welcome  m.essage 
informing  m.e  of  your  new  happiness.  I 
hasten  to  offer  you  my  most  sincere  congratu- 
lations and  hearty  good  wishes.  May  every 
year  of  your  married  life  fiyid  you  happier 
than  the  last,  and  may  Mrs.  Cra7ist07i  fi7id 
you  as  loyal  a  husband  as  you  have  bee7i  a 
friend. 

From   my  inmost  heart,   dear  Franks  I 


say,  God  bless  you  a7id  your  bride  with  His 
choicest  blessi7igs. 

Ever  your  friend, 

George  Maris. 
Mr.  Frank  Cra7iston, 

Newport,  Del. 

Congratulating  a  Lady  Upon  Her 
Marriage. 

179  D  St.,  n:  w. 

Washington,  D.  C,  Nov.  4.,  ipoj 
Dear  Emma  : 

Your  cards  have  just  reached  me,  and  I 
write  at  07ice  to  try  to  express  my  heartfelt 
pleasure  at  your  happy  prospects.  It  is  a 
great  pleasure  to  your  loving  friends  to  be 
able  to  feel  so  Tnuch  esteem  and  affection  for 
the  gentleman  to  whom  you  have  confided  your 
life's  happi7iess,  and  to  hope,  as  I  do,  that 
every  year  will  U7iite  your  hearts  more  closely. 

That  Heaven  may  bless  you    both,  dear 
Emm,a,  is  the  earnest  prayer  of 
Your  loving 

Laura  Shipley. 
Mrs.  J.  Barrie  Brown. 

A  Letter  Sent  with  a  Gift  (a  Book). 

P77  President  St. , 
Brooklyn  N,  Y.,  Dec.  20,  190-. 
My  Dear  Frie7id : — /  hope  the  acco7npany- 
i7ig  volume,  of  which  I  ask  yozcr  acceptance  as 
a  slight  tokeii  of  rny  regard,  will  suit  your 
taste.  Books  are  i7i  themselves  frie7ids,  a7id 
are  therefore,  I  thi7ik,  the  most  appropri- 
ate soitvenirs  of  frie7idship.  In  fact  the  cur- 
rent phrase,  '^  I k7iow  you  like  a  book,''''  al- 
though a  vulgaris7n,  seems  to  imply  the  sa7ne 
i7itiniate  relati07i  between  reader  and  author 
that  should  exist  betwee7i  frie7id  a7id  frie7id. 
Please  apprise  m,e  of  the  receipt  of  the  package, 
a7id  believe  m.e, 

Ever  yotirs  si7icerely 

fohn  Clark. 
To  Miss  Julia  Thomas,  Brandywine ,  Del. 

The  Reply. 

Brandywi7ie,  Del.,  Dec.  2j,  igo—. 
My  Dear  Mr.  Clark  : — Accept  my  tha7iks 
for  your  handsome  prese7it.      You   cotild  not 


6o 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


have  selected  a  book  that  would  have  pleased 
vie  better.  I  think  with  you  that  books  {of  the 
right  kitid)  should  be  looked  upo?i  as  agreea- 
ble and  useful  friends ;  but  nevertheless  the 
frietid  whom  neither  time  nor  distaiice  can 
estrange^  is  a  treastire  of  7no?'e  vahie  tha7i  all 
the  vqlumes  that  ever  wei'e  pritited.  Permit 
me  to  regard  you  iii  that  lights  a?id  again 
tha7iki7ig yoti  for yotir present,  to  remai?i, 
Sincerely  yotirs, 

fulia  Thomas. 
To  Mr.  John  Clark,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Soliciting  a  Loan  from  a  Friend. 

2'/go  N.  Broad  St. , 
Philadelphia,  Sept.  p,  ipoj. 
My  Dear  Sir  : — Adisappoi7itme7it  i7i  the 
receipt  of  so77ie  i7i07iey  due  has  exposed  me  to  a 
te7nporary  e7nbarrass77ie7it.  The  sui/t  which 
would  ext?'icate  7i:ef7'-07n  this  pai7ifiil  difficulty 
is  not  large,  as  $4.00  would  be  amply  sufficie7it 
to  release  me  fro7n  my  prese7it  pressure.  I 
have  so  great  a7i  aversio7i  to  borrowing  vi07iey 
f7'077i  professio7ial  le7iders,  that  1  prefer  the 
course  of  soliciti7ig  the  aid  of  so7ne  well-known 
frie7id.  I  have  thought  of  several,  but  of?io7ie 
with  a  greater  degree  of  co7ifdence  tha7i  your- 
self. Can  you  gra7it  me,  theft,  the  acco77i77io- 
datio7i  of  the  above  sum,  without  i7i  a7iy  way 
i7itre7ichi7ig  07i  your  ow7i  co7ive7iiefice  ?  If  yoit 
can,  I  believe  1 7nay  rely  07i  your  readi7iess  to 
do  so ;  and  yotc  may  i7i  ttcr7i  depe7id  bei7ig 
rei77ibursed  with  the  strictest  piuictuality  by 
the  ^th  of  April.  A  speedy  7'eply  to  this  re- 
quest will  extre7nely  oblige. 
My  dear  sir. 

Yours  viost  si7icerely, 

Joseph  Howard. 
To  Mr.  Frank  Thomson. 

In  Answer  Declining,  on  Account  of 
Incapability. 

lyS^  Mulbeyry  Street, 
Philadelphia,  Sept.  10,  igoj. 

My  Dear  Sir  : — /  truly  regret  that  my 
circu77ista7ices  will  7iot  permit  vie  to  oblige  a 
frie7id  so  dear  to  me  as  yourself ;  but  at 
Present  I  am  171  great  need  of  mo7iey,  a7id  last 
Friday  I  was  co77ipelled  to  borrow,  to  vieet  a 
pressi7ig  obligatio7i ;  I  therefore  do  not  have  it 
within  i7iy  power  to  comply  with  your  request. 

Trusti7ig  that  you  may  be  more  successful 


212 


i7i  so7ne  other  quarter,  a7id  with  feelings  of 
regret  at  i7iy  ow7i  i7iability  to  re7ider  you  a 
service  which  you  7nigbt  otherwise  readily 
com7na7td, 

Believe  'tne  to  7^e7nai7i, 
Ever  your  si7tce7'e  frie7id, 

Charles  Hall. 
To  Mr.  foseph  Howard, 

No.  —  Lexi7igto7t  Ave.,  N.  Y. 

A  Letter  to  a  Friend  (on  the  Anni- 
versary of  his  Birthday. 

I  pi  J  Gree?i  Stree  , 

Philadelphia,  fuly  J,  igo-. 
My  Dear  Walter: — Birthdays  77iay  be  called 
the  vtilesto7ies  i7t  life' s  jour7iey,  a/id  as  you 
reach  a7iother  of  these  a7i7iive7'sa}y  land-marks 
to-day,  per77iit  77ie  to  co7tgratulate you  07i  hav- 
i7ig  traveled  the 771  thus  far  i/i  safety,  and  to 
wish  you,  with  all  i7iy  heart,  77ia7iy  si77iilar 
opportu7iities  of  receivi7ig  the  good  wishes  of 
your  f7'ie7ids.  That  your  future  years  i7iay 
glide  happily  away,  withoiit  care  or  sorrow,  is 
the  si7icere  prayer  of. 

Yours  most  si7icerely, 

Tho7nas  Meek. 
To  Mr.  Walter  Dewey, 
Crestli7ie,  Ohio. 

Reply  to  the  Above. 

Crestline,  Ohio,fuly  10,  igo~. 

Dear  To7n  : — Co7igratulatio7is  that  co7ne 
from  the  heart,  as  I  a77t  sure  yours  do,  are 
always  welco7ne.  I  sca7'cely  k7iow,  however, 
whether  we  ought  to  be  C07npii77ie7ited  07i  grow- 
i7ig  older,  U7iless  we  grow  wiser  a7id  better  as 
well.  Nevertheless,  the  custo77i  of  receivi7ig 
the  felicitations  of  07ie'  s  frie7ids  a7id  acquai7it- 
aiices,  071  havi7ig  77iade  a7iother  step  towaf-d 
the  goal,  is  decidedly  a7i  agreeable  one,  and  I 
tha7ik  you  77iost  cordially  for  your  ki7id  7iote. 
Your  obliged  f'iend , 

Walter  Dewey. 
To  Mr.  Tho7nas  Meek, 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Requesting  a  Friend  to  execute  a 
Commission. 

Santiago ,  C^iba, 

April  /J,  I  go  2. 
My  Dear  Ernma  : —  Will  you  ki7idly  exe- 
cute the  followi7tg  little  co77i7/iissio7is  for  //le,  as 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


6i 


soon  as  you  can  make  it  convenient?  Pur- 
chase/or vie  at  Macy's  the  followbig  articles  ; 
—  {Jiere  state  ribbons,  miisli7is,  &c. ,  as 
wanted?)  Will  you  also  call  at  Doubleday'' s 
and  inquire  when  Bacheller' s  new  novel  will 
be  out,  as  I  am  all  anxiety  to  knoiv. 

Please  give  them  my  address  at  Macy' s, 
and  tell  them  to  pack  the  parcel  carefully  and 
send  it  by  express. 

The  weather  dozvn  here  is  delightful ;  but 
I  wish  I  had  the  pleasure  of  your  company  to 
render  it  m,ore  so.  Pray  write  a  line  and  let 
me  knozv  how  soon  you  can  make  me  a  visit, 
and  thus  afford  me  an  opportunity  to  tha7ik 
you  personally  for  your  kindness. 

Lois  C.  Pharnum . 
To  Miss  Mary  White, 

No.  —  Washington  Square.  New  York. 

Application    for    Subscription    to   a 
Charity. 

Duane  Street, 

Louisville,  Ky., 

fanuary  ly,  ipo-. 
Sir  — /  take  the  liberty  of  inclosing  a  pros- 
pectus of  an  institutio7i  which  is  likely  to  have 
a  most  beneficial  effect  upon  the  condition  of 
the  poor  in  our  neighbo7'hood.  {^Here  state 
particula7'S-^  On  accou7it  of  your  well-know7i 
libe7'ality ,  I  trust  you  will  excuse  this  appeal 
i7i  furtherance  of  an  act  of  benevolence ,  and 
remai7i , 

Sir,  your  77iost  obedient  servant, 

Harry  R.Jones. 
To  Pliney  Earlc,  Esq., 

No.  —  West  1 8th  Street,  City. 

Letters  of  Application. 

BOY  WANTED  for  Transportation  Office; 
must  be  good  penman  ;  $15  per  month.  Address, 
in  own  handwriting,  H,  236  I^edger  Office. 

Philadelphia ,  Pa .,  fan.  j,  igoi . 
H,  2j6  Ledger  Office. 

Sir^- — /  would  respectfully  apply  for  the 
position  advertised  i7i  to-day' s  Ledger.  I  am 
fiftee7i  years  old,  reside  with  my  parents  at 
yg  fay7ie  Street,  Camden,  a7id  refer  you  to 
Mr.  S.  L.  Thomas,  81^  Market  Street,  this 
city,  from  wha7n  I  received  the  enclosed  testi- 
mo7iial. 

Very  truly, 

Albert  Jenkins, 


Application  for  Position  of  Salesman 
and  Collector. 

100  D  St.  N.  W. 

Washiyigton,  D.  C, 
March  21,  igoi. 
Messrs.   S.  H.  Smith  &  Co., 
Wheeli7ig,    W.    Va. 
Gentleme7i  : 

I  a77i  recommended  by  Mr.  Frank  Stuart 
to  apply  to  you  for  the  positi^7i  of  sales77ian 
and  collector,  rece7itly  occupied  by  Jmn  in  your 
warehouse. 

I  am  twe7ity-eight  years  of  age,  a7id  re- 
side with  77iy  father  i7i  this  city,  who  will  give 
bo7ids  for  me  if  required.  I  have  had  soTue 
experie7ice  171  your  li7ie  of  busi7iess ,  a7id  should 
be  pleased  to  have  a  trial  with  you,  if  prefer- 
able, previous  to  a  perma7ient  engagei7ie7it .  I 
a77i  at  liberty  to  refer  to  Mess7-s.  W.  H. 
Fletcher  &  Co.,  Lace  Curtai7is,  ig8  Broad- 
way, New  York,  also  to  Messrs.  Si77ipso7i  & 
fones.  Upholstery  Goods,  166  Arch  Street, 
Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Very  respectfully , 

Edward  Murphy. 

Requesting  the  Settlement  of  an  Account. 

Newark,  N.J.,  Dec.  25,  igoo. 
Mr.  JaTnes  Jones, 

Burlington,  N.J. 
Dear  Sir : 

I  call  your  attentio7i  to  the  fact  that  your 
accou7it,  which  I  enclose,  has  7iot  bee7i  settled. 
I  a7n  relucta7it  to  press  yo7i,  but  as  I  have 
some  heavy  payments  to  make  in  the  early  part 
of  7iext  77ionth,  I  must  request  that  you  pay 
the  a77iount  before  the  close  of  the  present 
mo7ith. 

Respectfully  yours, 

John  Adams. 

A  Demand  for  Payment  of  Rent, 

140P  North  Ninth  St., 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 

June  ^,  igo^. 
Mr.  Tho77ias  F.  Smith. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  feel  obliged  to  remind  yoii  of  the  fact  that 

you   owe   me    $120  for  three   7nonths^   rent. 

You   will    reme7nber  that,  accordi7ig    to   the 

agree7ne7it,     you    were    to     make    m.onthly 


213 


62 


BOOK  OF  ETIOUETTE 


payments  ;  therefore,  if  the  account  is  not  settled 
ivhhin  a  week,  I  shall  be  obliged  to  place  the 
matter  in  the  hands  of  7ny  laivyer  for  collectio7i, 
as  J  ca7i7iot  allow  it  to  run  any  longer. 
Truly  yours, 

Henry  S.  Holmes. 

Introducing  a  Young  Man  Seeking  a 
Position. 

Akron,  Ohio,  June  I,  igoo. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

Recognizi7ig  your  well-merited  and  ex- 
tensive influence  in  the  comincrcial  circles  in 
your  city,  I  beg  to  introduce  to  you  Charles  F. 
Pogle,  zvho  is  desirous  of  obtaining  a  position 
with  a  mercantile  house.  He  is  a  goitlemayi 
of  capacity  and  ability.  His  character  sta?ids 
A  I,  and  he  is  as  industrious  as  he  is  e^ier- 
getic.  He  considers  New  York  a  better  field 
than  this  place,  and  prefers  to  try  his  chances 
there  to  remainiiig  here.  He  can  refer  to  me. 
Trusting  that  you  will  lend  him,  a  helping 
hand,  I  am,  Yours,  ve^y  truly, 

Ja7nes  B .  Marvel. 
Mr.    Edward  Fetter, 

ip   Park   Row,  Nezv    York. 

Social  Letters. 

Let  these  be  original  and  not  be  like  the 
epistles  of  some  one  else  ;  write  as  you  would 
talk,  but  always  exercise  care  in  the  use  of 
pure,  simple  language  and  avoid  a  stilted  or 
artificial  stjde.  Especially  in  the  long  let- 
ters of  friendship  and  love — those  missives 
that  reveal  the  heart — the  language  should 
show  that  the  \\f3sX.  is  pure.  L,et  your  letter 
be  the  record  of  the  fancies  and  mood  of  the 
hour ;  the  reflex  of  your  aspirations,  your 
joys,  your  disappointments. 

Write  cheerfully.  It  is  unkind  to  your 
friend  to  fill  your  letter  with  complainings 
and  accounts  of  your  troubles,  though  there 
are  occasions  when  one  may  confide  all  his 
sorrows  to  the  near  friend,  and  receive  in  re- 
turn a  letter  of  sympathy,  containing  all  the 
comfort  it  is  possible  for  a  letter  to  convey. 

The  length  of  social  letters  must  depend 
upon  circumstances  and  degree  of  intimacy. 
To  members  of  your  family  real  chatty 
letters  telling  of  all  the  little  incidents  of 
your  life,  its  pleasures  and  adventures  are 
always  proper.  In  fact,  these  need  be  limited 
only  by  your  time  and  paper.  To  others 
you  must  not  write  such  long  letters. 


The  following  is  a  feeling"  letter  of  con- 
dolence, written  by  Frances  Ridley  Haver- 
gal  to  a  lady  friend  : 

Leamington,  Dec.  lo,  i8yo. 
Dear,  Dear  Mrs.  Smith  : 

What  can  I  do  but  just  weep  with  you  !  I 
can  only  guess  xvhat  this  sorrow  is.  Only  1 
know  it  viust  be  the  greatest,  except  one,  which 
could  come  to  you.  That  dear  little,  beazitiful 
thiyig  I  He  looked  so  sweet  and  happy  when  I 
saw  him,;  7io  baby  face  ever  haunted  me  as, 
somehow,  his  did.  If  you  could  only  see  hi7n 
710W,  how  beautiful  he  77iustbe  7iow  that  he  has 
see7i  Jesus,  and  shines  i7i  the  light  of  God.  It 
is  even  77iore  wo7iderful  to  tlmik  of  that  great 
transitio7i  for  a  baby  thayi  for  a  grow7t  per- 
son ;  07ie  cannot  iynagiyie  the  sudde7i  expa7isio7i 
into  stich  k7iowledge  a7id  co7iscious Joy . 

I  was  looki7ig  back  this  77iorni7ig  upon  lo7ig 
memories  of  soul-trials,  years  of  groping  and 
stu7nbli7ig  a7id  longi7ig,  si7i7iing  ayid  sorrow- 
ing, of  heart  weariness  a7id  fai7itness,  te7np- 
iation  and  failure ;  all  these  things  which  I 
suppose  every  Christian  77121st  pass  through, 
m.ore  or  less,  at  so77ie  stage  or  other  07i  the 
way  ho77ie  ;  a7id  the  first  distiiict  thought  which 
ca>7ie  through  the  surprise  a7id  sor7VW  at  the 
sad  7ietvs  was,  "  That  dear  little  redee77ied  07ie 
is  spared  all  this,  take7i  ho7ne  without  a7iy  of 
these  roughest  roughnesses  of  the  way  ;  he  will 
never  fear  doubt  or  si7i,  7iever  grieve  his 
Saviour.  "  Is  it  7iot  the  very  best  ajid  kindest 
thing  that  te7ider  Saviour  could  do  for  hi77i  f 
07ily  it  is  7iot  tvhat  you  7nea7it  when  you 
prayed  that  he  7night  be  his  ow>i. 

But  better  he  is  with  hi7n  at  once  a7id  for- 
ever, a7id  waiti7ig  for  you  to  co77ie  home.  If 
am  only  writing  all  this  because  7ny  heart  is 
full,  and  must  pour  out  a  little.  I  know  we 
cannot  co77ifort, — 07ily  Jesus  ca7i ;  and  I  shall 
go  a7id  plead  long  a7id  i7ite7isely  Jor  this  as 
S0071  as  I  have  closed  77iy  letter.  He  must  be 
specially  "  touched''  in  such  a  sorrow,  Jor  he 
k7iows  by  actual  experie7ice  what  hu7na7t  love 
is.  Three  such  great  sorrows  iti  one  year ! 
How  specially  he  must  be  watchi7ig  you  in  this 
Jurnace  ! 

Yours  with  deepest  sympathy, 

Fra7ices  R.  Havergal. 

This  may  fitly  be  followed  by  a  letter  of 
congratulation,  of  which  we  give  a  manu- 
factured example.     Too  often  it  is  the  case 


214 


BOOK  OF  ETIOUETTE 


63 


that  friends  forget  to  congratulate  those  they 
are  interested  in  when  good  fortune  of  any 
kind  comes  upon  them,  or  to  commiserate 
with  them  in  cases  of  disaster  or  misfortune. 
These  letters  not  only  are  proper  but  very 
acceptable.  The  one  receiving  such  letters 
should  not  fail  to  acknowledge  them.  They 
properly  should  not  be  very  long  or  very 
effusive. 

New  York,  May  8,  190J. 
My  Dear  Mr.  Williams  : 

It  is  with  deep  satisfactio?i  that  I  learn  of 
your  good  fortiuie.  I  have  long  hoped  that 
the  clouds  which  lowered  over  you  would  be 
lifted.,  and  sincerely  hope  that  you  have  fairly 
entered  upon  a  tide  of  prosperity.  In  one 
who,  like y 071,  have  been  true  and  honorable  in 
all  your  actions,  and  have  suffered  in  vieans 
through  honesty  iii  dealing,  the  coining  of  a 
measure  of  success  like  this  should  be  especially 
gratifying. 

May  you  continue  to  prosper,  and  if  in  any 
way  I  can  advance  your  interests  hi  this  quar- 
ter do  not  fail  to  make  tise  of  me.     Present  my 
best  wishes  to  Mrs.  Williams,  and  believe  me 
Sincerely  yours , 

Jatnes  Dobson. 

From  Charles  Dickens  to  James  T.  Fields. 

As  an  excellent  example  of  a  reply  to  a 
letter  conveying  pleasant  wishes,  we  present 
the  following  from  Dickens  : 

Gad's  Hilly  fune  10,  i86y. 
My  Dear  Fields  : 

Your  letter  of  May  2yth  comes  to  me  like 
a  breath  from  your  ow7i  world  beyond  the  sea. 
Believe  m-e,  I  reciprocate  all  your  good  wishes, 
and  take  this  occasion  to  renew  those  sentiments 
of  respect  and  affection  for  yourself  which  it 
has  been  -my  privilege  to  eiitertain  for  so  long 
a  time,  hi  the  busy  hours  of  exacting  labors, 
I  recall  with  pleasure  the  choice  friends  whom 
it  has  been  my  happy  lot  to  meet.  Time  does 
not  rust,  but  brightens,  the  links  of  the  golden 
chain.  With  every  good  wish  for  your  per- 
so7ial  health  and  enjoyment,  I  am,  as  ever. 
Yours  Tnost  sincerely, 

Charles  Dickens. 
Mr.  fames  T.  Fields, 

Boston,  Mass. 


From   Charles   Sumner  on   Leaving  for 
Europe  to  his  Ten=year  Old  Sister. 

As  tor  House, 

New  York,  Dec.  7,  18 j"^ 
My  Dear  fulia : 

I  doiiH  remember  that  I  ever  wrote  you  a 
letter.  I  feel  confident,  however,  that  your 
correspondence  is  not  very  extensive;  and 
therefore  I  flatter  myself  that  what  I  write  you 
will  be  read  with  attention,  arid  I  trust,  also, 
deposited  in  your  heart.  Before  trusting  my- 
self to  the  sea,  let  me  say  a  few  words  to  you 
which  shall  be  my  good- by.  I  have  often 
spoken  to  you  of  certain  habits  of  personal 
care,  which  I  will  not  here  more  particularly 
refer  to  thaii  by  asking  you  to  remember  all  I 
have  told  you. 

I  am  very  glad,  'my  dear,  to  remember 
your  cheerful  cou7ite?iance .  I  shall  keep  it  in 
my  mi?id  as  I  travel  over  sea  arid  land,  and 
hope  that  when  I  return  I  may  still  find  its 
pleasant  smile  ready  to  gr^eet  me.  Try  riever 
to  cry.  But  above  all  things  never  be  obstinate 
or  passionate .  If  you  find  your  temper  mas 
tering  you,  always  stop  till  you  count  sixty 
before  you  say  or  do  anything.  Let  it  be  said 
of  you  that  you  are  always  amiable.  Love  your 
father  arid  mother  and  brothers  and  sisters, 
and  all  your  friends  ;  cultivate  an  affectionate 
disposition. 

If  you  find  that  you  can  do  anything 
which  will  add  to  the  pleasure  of  your  parents , 
or  anybody  else,  be  sure  to  do  it.  Consider 
every  opportunity  of  adding  to  the  pleasur'e  of 
others  as  of  the  highest  impor'tance,  and  do  not 
be  unwilling  to  sacrifice  some  enjoyment  of 
your  own,  even  some  dear  plaything ,  if  by 
doing  so  you  can  promote  the  happiness  of 
others.  If  you  follow  this  advice  you  will  never 
be  selfish  or  ungenerous,  and  everybody  will 
love  you. 

Study  all  the  lessons  you  have  at  school, 
and  when  at  home,  in  the  time  when  you  are 
tired  of  play,  read  some  good  books  which  will 
help  to  impr'bve  your  mind.  .  .  .  If  you  will 
let  Hor^ace  read  this  letter  it  will  do  the  same, 
perhaps,  as  one  addressed  to  him.  Give  my 
love  to  mother,  and  Mary,  and  the  rest. 
Your  affectionate  brother, 

Charles. 


64 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


ETIQUETTE  OF  BEAUTY 


During  all  civilized  ages  the  art  of 
beauty  has  been  sedulously  studied  and 
practiced  by  the  fair  sex,  women  in  all 
periods  since  the  days  of  barbarism  having 
sought  to  preserve  and  increase  the  charms 
bestowed  by  nature  and  carry  the  freshness 
of  youth  as  far  forward  as  possible  into  the 
domain  of  middle  life  and  even  of  old  age. 
Experience  extended  through  many  cen- 
turies has  yielded  numerous  ' '  rules  of  con- 
duct "  in  relation  to  physical  hygiene  and 
the  care  of  the  body,  while  physicians  have 
learned  much  in  respect  to  the  preservation 
of  health  and  beauty.  Hoav  to  keep  a  clean 
soul  in  a  clean  body  is  the  first  law  of  health. 
In  the  study  of  the  fine  arts  there  is  nothing 
of  more  importance  than  the  art  of  making 
a  beautiful  woman.  It  is  this  art  with 
which  yv^e  are  at  present  concerned.  Though 
no  one  can  be  taught  how  to  convert  ugli- 
ness into  beauty,  or  to  stay  the  footsteps  of 
age,  yet  what  share  of  attractiveness  nature 
has  given  can  in  great  measure  be  retained 
and  enhanced,  while,  if  the  advance  of  age 
cannot  be  checked,  its  ravages  may  be  alle- 
viated and  its  harshness  softened  by  the 
employment  of  physical  hygiene  and  refined 
care  of  the  body  which  God  has  given  us. 

How  to  Grow  Old  Gracefully. 

A  charming  old  lady  revealed  the  secret 
of  her  fair  and  rosy  complexion  to  a  group 
of  young  women  as  follows  :  ' '  L,ate  hours , ' ' 
said  she,  ','  and  oversleeping  ruin  the  com- 
plexion. Go  to  bed  early,  arise  early,  and 
you  will  grow  old  slowly,  and  retain  your 
good  looks  to  an  advanced  age.  If,  how- 
ever, your  position  forces  you  into  society 
and  you  are  obliged  to  be  up  late  at  night, 
sleep  an  hour  every  afternoon.  Before 
going  to  bed  take  a  hot  bath  and  remain  in 
the  water  only  a  few  moments.  Then  drink 
a  cup  of  bouillon,  and  a  small  glass  of 
Malaga  wine.  Sleep  will  soon  follow,  and 
last  until  the  natural  time  of  awakening, 
which  is  about  ten  o'clock  in  the  morning 
under  these  circumstances.  Take  a  cold 
plunge  or  sponge  bath,  a  light  breakfast  of 
cafe  au  lait,  and  bread  without  any  butter. ' ' 

She  continued  :    ' '  Out-of-door  exf^rc."--:-^ 


is  an  absolute  necessity,  but  must  not  be 
carried  to  excess.  A  daily  walk  is  excellent, 
and  it  is  scarcely  necessary  to  say  that 
whole  days  of  lawn  tennis,  croquet,  etc., 
are  not  favorable  to  the  complexion." 

Care  of  the  Body. 

Wear  warm,  light  garments,  to  secure 
an  even  temperature.  In  winter  it  is  even 
more  important  to  protect  the  spine  than 
the  chest.  Wear  a  silk  sleeveless  jacket 
next  the  skin,  if  you  do  not  wish  to  wear 
a  flannel  one.  At  any  rate,  if  you  are  deli- 
cate, young  or  old,  cover  the  spine  with  a 
strip  of  flannel  tied  by  a  ribbon,  and  extend- 
ing to  the  hips.  There  will  be  no  need  to 
fear  colds,  bronchitis,  or  phthisis,  if  this  pre- 
caution is  taken,  and  it  does  not  prevent 
wearing  a  decollette  gown. 

Never  wear  tight  clothing.  It  is  in- 
jurious to  health  and  beauty.  The  face  be- 
comes congested  when  the  organs  are  com- 
pressed, the  hands  swell,  and  get  red,  and 
the  carriage  awkward.  Wear  easy  corsets, 
gloves,  and  shoes. 

To  keep  the  pores  of  the  skin  open,  one 
should  bathe  daily  in  cold  or  warm  water ; 
ill  health  and  age  are  thus  retarded.  The 
result  of  uncleanliness  is  a  flabby  and  un- 
wholesome condition.  The  well  cleansed 
skin  is  soft,  smooth,  fresh  ;  a  skin  on  which 
perspiration  and  dust  have  accumulated  in 
layers  becomes  dry  and  feverish.  But  it 
may  be  said  that  it  is  not  possible  for  the 
greater  number  of  people  to  take  a  daily 
bath,  as  they  lack  the  facilities  and  the 
time.  The  sponge  bath — which  is  all  suffi- 
cient for  the  purposes  of  cleanliness — re- 
quires only  a  few  minutes  each  day.  Once 
or  twice  a  week  at  least,  one  should  take 
the  time  necessary  for  a  full  bath.  This  is 
the  very  least  attention  our  bodies  require. 

Immersions  and  baths,  with  the  aid  of 
soap,  lotions,  etc.,  will  render  the  body 
strong  and  flexible,  and  give  it  a  power  of 
resistance. .  Water  haa  the  virtue  of  dispell- 
ing fatigue  and  destroying  the  germs  of  dis- 
ease. While  cleansing  the  body  it  purifies 
our  souls  and  gives  us  "  a  sound  mind  in  a 
-©und  body." 


216 


BGOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


65 


The  Bath=Room. 

The  furnishing  of  the  bath-room  depends 
largely  upon  the  means  and.  taste  of  its 
ov/ner.  It  is  no  difficult  matter  to  furnish  a 
simple  bath-room,  in  which  comfort  may  be 
preserved  while  the  unattainable  elegancies 
of  the  rich  are  banished.  The  walls  of  this 
room  may  be  painted  in  oils — in  imitation 
of  marble,  if  desired.  Over  the  floor  of 
wood  or  tiles  a  carpet  of  linoleum  should  be 
spread.  In  front  of  the  bath-tub  should  be 
laid  an  India-rubber  mat,  on  which  to  step 
on  leaving  the  bath.  On  the  walls  may  be 
placed  shelves  fo*  soap,  sponges,  etc.,  within 
easy  reach  of  th^  hand  while  in  the  v/ater. 
On  racks  or  in  a  wardrobe  should  be  hung 
the  bathing  linen,  towels,  dressing  sacks, 
and  other  necessaries  of  the  bath. 

The  human  skin  is  a  complicated  net, 
whose  meshes  must  be  kept  open  and  un- 
clogged,  in  order  that  through  them  the 
body  may  throw  off  its  impure  secretions. 
The  healthy  action  of  the  skin  is  stimulated 
by  the  opening  of  the  pores  in  the  bath,  es- 
pecially if  it  is  followed  by  friction  with  a 
brush  or  rough  towel. 

Instead  of  the  bath-tub  and  its  acces- 
)Ories,  the  needs  of  cleanliness  may  be  met 
\vith  a  large  zinc  tub,  a  pail,  and  a  small 
basin  of  water,  with  a  suitable  sponge.  In 
this  method  of  bathing  first  use  warm  water; 
then,  if  in  good  health,  lower  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  water  until,  finally,  the  bath  can 
be  taken  cold.  In  all  cases  the  temperature 
of  the  room  must  be  moderatelj^  warm.  Peo- 
ple whose  lungs  are  weak  should  always 
bathe  in  warm  wate^ . 

Partial  baths,  of  any  kind,  are  almost 
always  taken  warm.  It  is  unwise  to  bathe 
immediately  after  eating,  as  it  seriously  in- 
terferes with  digestion.  There  should  be  at 
least  three  or  four  hours  between  a  full  repast 
and  a  bath. 

In  the  springtime,  when  one  is  more 
susceptible  to  cold  than  at  any. other  season 
of  the  year,  it  is  best  to  bathe  at  night,  just 
before  going  to  bed,  in  order  that  the  skin 
may  profit  by  the  warm  moisture  which  it 
retains  for  several  hours  after  leaving  the 
bath. 

The  practice  of  massage,  by  the  hands  of 
an  experienced  operator,  is  of  great  value  in 
21   E  2 


certain  states  of  the  health.  But,  fortu 
nately,  ordinary  friction  can  replace  this 
practice  without  assistance,  thanks  to  the 
various  appliances  for  the  purpose  of  rub- 
bing one's  self  over  the  shoulders  and  back, 
which  the  hands  cannot  reach  easily.  The 
friction  is  produced  either  with  the  bare 
hand,  or  by  means  of  gloves  or  bands  of 
horsehair,  or  of  rough  woolen  or  linen 
cloth.  When  no  liquid  is  employed,  such 
friction  is  called  dry-. 

The  Dressing=Roorn. 

A  woman's  dressing-room  should  be  as 
tasteful  and  comfortable  as  her  social  posi- 
tion and  fortune  permit :  simply  comfort- 
able if  she  cannot  afford  luxury,  but  sup- 
plied at  least  with  all  things  necessary  and 
useful  to  a  careful  toilet. 

Where  convenient,  two  dressing-tables 
should  be  provided,  facing  each  other,  dif- 
ferent in  dimensions,  but  identical  in  form. 

The  larger  serves  for  the  minor  ablu- 
tions. It  is  provided  with  a  water  pitcher 
and  bowl  of  porcelain,  crystal,  or  silver, 
selected  with  the  taste  which  distinguishes 
us  in  these  days.  Above  it  fasten  a  little 
shelf  on  which  to  place  perfumes,  smelling 
salts,  dentrifices,  elixirs,  etc.  Beside  the 
bowl  place  a  soap-dish,  a  box  for  brushes, 
etc. 

The  smaller  dressing-table  should  be 
surmounted  by  an  adjustable  mirror,  framed 
in  silk  and  muslin.  The  hair  is  dressed  be- 
fore this  table.  It  must  be  supplied  with 
all  needful  accessories — brushes  and  combs, 
perfumes,  creams  and  lotions,  powder-boxes, 
powder  puffs,  manicure  set,  etc.  Projecting 
brackets  for  lights  should  be  on  each  side  of 
this  table. 

The  dressing-room  may  be  far  more 
simple  than  here  described.  If  it  lack  all 
luxury,  a  woman  of  taste  may  give  it  an 
attractive  appearance.  Select  a  tasteful  wall- 
paper. Cover  the  floor  with  a  pretty  rug. 
Tables  of  pine  ma}^  be  draped  with  cretonne 
bordered  with  a  ruffle.  Over  your  dressing- 
table  spread  a  linen  scarf  trimmed  with 
inexpensive  lace.  Above  it  hang  small 
brackets  covered  like  the  table,  on  which 
place  the  boxes,  bottles,  jewel  vases,  etc., 
which  may  be  gra':eful  and  elegant  despite 
their  small  cost.  If  the  mirror  is  ordinrr)', 
17 


66 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


conceal  the  frame  by  a  drapery  to  correspond 
with  the  table.  This  is  easily  arranged  by 
means  of  hidden  tacks.  Secure  a  very  sim- 
ple wardrobe,  which  you  can  greatly  im- 
prove b}^  painting  and  varnishing.  Conceal 
the  water  jugs  and  pails  under  the  valance 
of  the  table. 

Some  shelves  at  the  end  of  the  room, 
with  hooks  beneath  them  to  hold  articles  of 
clothing,  the  whole  concealed  behind  cur- 
tains in  harmony  with  the  drapery  of  the 
cable,  will  answer  the  purpose  of  a  ward- 
robe. The  curtain  should  hang  freely  from 
the  ceiling,  so  as  not  to  expose  the  outlines 
of  the  objects  behind  it.  Beneath  it  the 
zinc  bathing  tub  may  be  hidden. 

The  Complexion. 

It  is  generally  thought  that  the  color  and 
texture  of  the  skin  may  be  improved  by  ex- 
ternal means.  This  is  partially  the  truth, 
but  is  largely  an  error,  since  the  complexion 
depends  to  a  great  degree  on  the  health  and 
temperament.  We  must  look  to  hygiene 
rather  than  to  cosmetics  to  supply  the  de- 
fects of  color. 

A  complexion  which  is  too  highly  col- 
ored, especially  if  the  color  is  deep  and  ex- 
tends over  nearly  the  whole  surface,  is 
neither  desirable  fron  i  an  aesthetic  nor  from  a 
hygienic  standpoint.  It  indicates  plethora. 
It  will  be  noticed  that  those  persons  who  are 
afflicted  with  high  color,  whose  eyes  even 
are  veined  in  red,  are  usually  large  eaters, 
lovers  of  ease,  and  averse  to  fatiguing  exer- 
cises. In  order  to  tone  down  their  color, 
they  should  restrain  the  appetite,  select  less 
succulent  food,  and  take  less  ease.  Their 
health  will  be  improved  by  the  directions 
here  given  ;  headaches,  confusion  of  thought, 
dizziness,  will  disappear  ;  from  violent,  the 
color  will  become  merely  brilliant,  which  is 
a  very  different  thing,  for  a  bright  color  is 
not  objectionable  if  confined  to  the  cheek,  as 
it  makes  the  rest  of  the  face  fairer  by  contrast. 

When  the  complexion  is  muddy,  wan, 
pasty,  too  white,  greenish,  yellow,  or  pur- 
ple, it  is  always  a  sign  of  bad  health.  A 
muddy  skin  is  sometimes  natural,  but  fre- 
quently indicates  dyspepsia,  feeble  circula- 
tion, etc. 

A  pale  skin  is  usually  due  to  a  life  spent 
within  doors,  lack  of  exercise,  the  habit  or 


necessity  of  avoiding  sunlight  and  daylight. 
A  pasty  skin  is  the  result  of  a  lymphatic 
temperament.  An  olive  skin  does  not 
always  indicate  disease ;  it  may  have  been 
inherited  from  some  creole  ancestor.  A  too 
white  skin,  without  proper  admixture  of 
color,  shows  a  person  in  serious  ill  health, 
although  sometimes  there  are  no  other  indi- 
cations. A  purplish  complexion  may  come 
from  some  affection  of  the  heart.  A  yellow 
skin  requires  especial  attention.  It  is  plain 
that  care  and  precaution  should  be  taken 
when  the  complexion  is  defective. 

Hygiene  is  in  many  cases  sufficient,  and 
we  shall  try  to  trace  the  prominent  outlints 
of  this  preventive  treatment,  at  least  so  far 
as  women  are  concerned. 

Facial  Ablutions. 

It  is  well  known  that  the  pores  of  the 
skin  should  be  kept  open  in  order  to  perform 
thoroughly  their  functions,  and  that  wash- 
ing is  an  excellent  means  to  relieve  them  of 
the  secretions  or  accumulations  which  ob- 
struct and  close  them.  There  are,  however, 
precautions  to  be  taken  when  washing  the 
face.  If  there  is  any  eruption  on  the  face, 
warm  water  should  be  used.  By  this  means 
the  blood  is  driven  away  and  the  congestion 
relieved. 

When  the  weather  is  very  warm,  or 
wheh  the  face  is  heated,  do  not  wash  in  cold 
water.  Bathe  in  warm  water  with  pure 
soap.  Take  care  to  rinse  thoroughly,  so  as 
to  remove  every  particle  of  soap.  Powder 
lightly,  allowing  the  powder  to  dry  on  the 
face. 

The  face  should  be  then  carefully  wiped 
on  a  piece  of  soft  linen.  Rough  friction, 
with  a  coarse  towel,  has  the  effect  of  thick- 
ening some  skins.  It  is  well  to  remember 
that  the  skin  requires  the  same  delicate  care 
that  we  bestow  on  fine  porcelain  or  other 
rare  treasures. 

It  is  said  that  one  of  our  society  beauties 
every  night  on  going  to  bed  saturates  a  toilet 
towel  in  very  hot  water,  wrings  it,  and  ap- 
plies it  to  her  face,  keeping  it  there  for  half 
an  hour.     This  woman  has  no  wrinkles. 

A  woman,  fifty  years  old,  whose  skin  is 
as  smooth  as  that  of  a  young  girl,  has  never 
used  anything  on  her  face  but  hot  water, 
which  she  believes  prevents  the  skin  from 


218 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


67 


becoming  flaccid  and  wrinkled.  One  of  her 
friends  does  the  same,  but  immediately  after 
washes  her  face  in  cold  water,  and  her  sister 
uses  hot  water  at  night  and  cold  in  the 
morning. 

All  these  apparent  contradictions  depend 
doubtless  on  different  conditions  of  the  skin. 
A  well-knovv^n  physician  advises  washing 
the  face  in  cold  water  in  the  winter,  and  in 
warm  or  hot  water  in  summer,  thus  establish- 
ing harmony  with  the  existing  temperature. 

Hard  water,  which  does  not  dissolve  the 
soap,  should  not  be  used  for  washing  or 
bathing.  If  no  other  is  to  be  had,  the 
water  for  face-washing  may  be  softened  with 
a  little  borax  or  a  few  drops  of  ammonia. 

Lemon  juice  cleanses  the  skin  very  well, 
and  sometimes  serves  the  purpose  better 
than  soap.  Strawberry  juice  has  the  same 
effect,  besides  being  very  improving  to  the 
skisi. 

Dr.  Kingsford  believes  that,  in  many 
cases,  the  skin  of  the  face  may  be  kept 
smooth  to  an  advanced  age  by  the  follow- 
ing mechanical  process  :  The  fingers  being 
slightly  oiled,  the  skin  of  the  face  should  be 
rubbed,  gently  but  firmly,  in  a  direction 
opposite  to  that  in  which  wrinkles  threaten 
to  form.  This  should  be  done  at  least  once 
daily,  and  for  five  minutes  at  a  time.  The 
pressure  must  be  even,  firm,  and  gentle, 
and  the  oil  on  the  fingers  occasionally  re- 
newed. In  this  process  the  effect  may  be 
much  augmented  by  the  use  of  wool  fat, 
a  substance  which  is  extracted  from  sheep's 
wool.  Its  value  consists  in  the  fact  that  it 
is  readily  absorbed  by  the  skin,  and  thus 
serves  to  replace  the  subcutaneous  fatty 
tissue,  where  deficient,  and  give  a  full, 
smooth,  and  rounded  outline  to  the  skin. 
Cold- cream  prepared  from  this  wool  fat  and 
cucumber  juice  is  a  very  valuable  cosmetic, 
from  the  readiness  of  its  absorption  by  the 
skin,  ordinary  oils  and  fats  lying  on  the 
surface,  without  absorption,  and  forming  a 
greasy  film. 

To  Remove  Sunburn. 

Bathe  your  face  at  night  with  a  cold  in- 
fusion of  fresh  cucumbers  sliced  in  milk.  A 
decoction  of  tansy  in  buttermilk  is  still 
more  eflScacious.  Buttermilk  alone  is  ex- 
cellent. 


Another  means  of  overcoming  the  effects 
of  sea  or  wind  is  to  wash  the  face  with  the 
juice  of  green  grapes  prepared  in  the  follow- 
ing manner  :  Wet  the  grapes  and  powder 
lightly  with  alum  ;  wrap  in  a  white  paper 
and  cook  under  hot  ashes .  When  the  grapes 
become  tender  they  are  sufficiently  cooked. 
Remove  them  from  their  covering  and 
squeeze  into  a  cup.  Wash  your  face  in  the 
liquid  three  times  within  twenty-four  hours. 
This  remedy  is  said  to  be  infallible. 

Another  treatment,  practiced  in  Italy, 
is  to  bathe  the  face  with  the  white  of  an  &%%■, 
well  beaten.  Let  it  dry  on  the  skin,  and 
rinse  it  off  in  soft  water  after  fifteen  minutes. 
This  treatment  is  repeated  three  or  four 
times,  always  at  night,  just  before  retiring. 

Lastly,  good  results  may  be  had  from 
the  use  of  a  mixture  of  equal  parts  of  gly- 
cerine and  lemon  juice.  If  glycerine  does 
not  agree  with  the  skin,  use  rose-water. 

Freckles. 

Freckles  are  the  despair  of  blondes,  and 
even  of  brunettes  with  fair  skins.  Some 
physicians  attribute  them  to  too  much  iron 
in  the  blood,  and  think  that  they  may  arise 
from  the  abuse  of  iron  tonics.  Others  say 
that  they  indicate  a  delicate  constitut'on  and 
feeble  circulation. 

They  may  sometimes  be  prevented  by  a 
few  very  simple  precautions.  The  follow- 
ing mixture  has  been  used  with  success : 
One  part  of  tincture  of  iodine  to  three  parts 
of  glycerine,  applied  to  the  freckles  before 
going  to  bed. 

Another  remedy  is  the  following  :  Take 
one-half  pint  of  oil  of  turpentine  ;  dissolve 
in  it  seven  grammes  of  pulverized  camphor  ; 
add  two  grammes  of  oil  of  sweet  almonds. 

The  following  is  another  excellent  rem- 
edy :  Twenty-eight  grammes  of  crushed  cam- 
phor and  1 1 2  grammes  of  pure  olive  oil. 
Let  the  camphor  dissolve  slowly  in  the  oil. 

Applications  of  buttermilk  are  also  ex- 
cellent here,  as  in  the  case  of  sunburn. 

The  following  remedies  are  also  recom- 
mended :  In  twenty  centigrammes  of  rose 
water  dissolve  sixteen  centigrammes  of 
borax  : 

Fresh  beans,  boiled  in  water,  crushed  and 
applied  as  a  poultice  on  the  freckles,  will 
produce  excellent  effects. 


219 


6S 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


Make  a  mixture  of  vinegar,  lemon  juice, 
alcohol,  oil  of  lavender,  oil  of  rose,  oil  of 
cedar,  and  distilled  water.  Apply  to  the 
freckles  on  retiring,  and  wash  the  face  in 
soft  water  next  morning. 

Two  parts  of  sugar  of  watercress  to  one 
of  honey  is  highly  recommended  for  remov- 
ing both  large  and  small  freckles.  Strain 
through  a  cloth  and  apply  morning  and 
night. 

Depilatories. 

The  growth  of  hair  which  so  often  ap- 
pears on  the  chin  at  middle  age,  and  the 
down  which  imparts  a  masculine  appear- 
ance to  the  rosy  lips  of  some  young  girls 
of  twenty,  form  causes  of  annoyance  from 
which  some  suffer  distress  of  mind.  There 
are,  fortunately,  remedies  for  this  affliction. 

Removing  these  hairs  with  a  small 
tweezer  of  steel  is  one  of  the  common  meth- 
ods. But  the  hair  must  be  carefully  pulled 
and  not  broken  ;  it  should  be  removed  by  a 
sudden  jerk.  Recently  an  operation  by  elec- 
tricity, to  which  the  name  of  electrolysis  is 
given,  has  been  highly  recommended.  It 
is,  however,  often  unsuccessful,  and  always 
painful. 

Make  a  wash  of  the  leaves  and  roots  of 
celandine  distilled.  Make  a  compress,  apply 
to  the  hair}'-  spot,  allowing  it  to  remain  en 
all  night.  Continue  until  the  hairs  disap- 
pear. 

Use  pol5^pode  of  oak  ;  slit  and  cut  into 
pieces,  place  in  a  cucurbite  (vessel  resem- 
bling a  gourd  used  in  distillation)  and  pour 
over  it  some  white  wine,  which  should  cover 
the  polypode  a  finger's  width.  Let  it  stand 
for  twenty-four  hours.  Then  distil  in  boil- 
ing water  until  no  more  evaporates.  Apply 
in  compresses  on  the  afflicted  parts,  keeping 
it  on  all  night.  Renew  until  the  desired 
effect  is  produced. 

Face  Washes  and  Cosmetics. 

Never  use  any  kind  of  paint  on  the  face. 
All  rouges  injure  the  skin.  Blanc  de  perle 
is  dangerous. 

Greasy  skins  are  benefited  by  washing 
in  the  juice  of  fresh  cucumbers.  Equally 
good  is  the  water  in  which  spinach  flowers 
have  been  boi  led .  The  j  nice  of  strawberries 
is  still  better. 


During  the  sixteenth  century  the  water 
in  which  beans  had  been  boiled  was  in  vogue 
for  the  complexion.  This  farinaceous  water 
is  entitled  to  the  fame  which  it  possessed. 
Belladonna  (beautiful  lady)  derives  its  name 
from  the  use  which  the  Italians  of  the  Re- 
naissance made  of  its  juice  to  improve  theii 
cornplexions. 

The  following  lotion  is  excellent :  A 
wineglassful  of  lemon  juice,  a  pint  of  rain 
water,  five  drops  of  essence  of  rose,  well 
corked.  Wash  the  face  occasionally  with 
this  mixture,  which  often  prevents  the  dis- 
coloration of  the  skin. 

Soft  and  rela.xed  skins  will  be  improved 
by  the  use  of  the  following  cosmetic  (at  in- 
tervals of  eight  days) :  One  part  milk,  one 
part  whisky.  Moisten  a  soft  towel  with  the 
mixture,  after  having  first  washed  the  face. 
The  results  do  not  follow  immediately,  but 
within  a  year  the  skin  will  frequently  con- 
tract, become  firm,  fine,  and  soft. 

An  excellent  cleansing  wash,  used  by 
our  grandmothers,  and  known  as  "  virginal 
milk,"  is  prepared  as  follows:  Take  one 
quart  of  rose,  orange,  or  elder-flower  water, 
and  add  to  it,  drop  by  drop,  stirring  con- 
stantly, an  ounce  of  simple  tincture  of  ben- 
zoin. (Be  careful  not  to  use  compound 
tincture).  A  few  drops  of  glycerine  and 
twelve  or  fifteen  minims  of  tincture  of  myrrh 
may  be  added. 

For  greasiness  of  the  skin  the  v\se  of 
stimulating  and  astringent  washes  is  neces- 
sary. The  following  is  an  excellent  recipe  : 
One  ounce  of  dried  rose  leaves,  one-half 
pint  of  white-wine  vinegar,  one  half-pint  of 
rose  water.  Pour  the  vinegar  on  the  rose- 
leaves  and  let  it  stand  for  a  week;  then 
strain  and  add  the  rose-water.  Bathe  the 
face  morning  and  evening  b}^  wetting  the 
corner  of  a  soft  towel  with  the  lotion. 

Where  the  oiliness  is  considerable,  use 
the  following  lotion,  applying  it  two  or 
three  times  a  day  : 

Sulphate  of  zinc,  two  grains  ;  compound 
tincture  of  lavender,  eight  minims  ;  dis- 
tilled water,  one  ounce.     Mix  thoroughly. 

Toilet  vinegars  are  frequently  made  with 
diluted  acetic  acid,  into  which  are  infused 
rose-leaves,  lavender,  verbena,  or  some 
other  perfume.  All  toilet  vinegars  should 
be    much    diluted.     The  best  time  to  use 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


6q 


them  is  in  the  morning  after  bathing,  in  or- 
der to  cool  the  skin,  remove  any  appear- 
ance of  greasiness,  and  give  tone  to  the 
epidermis.  But  they  must  on  no  account 
be  used  soon  after  soap  has  been  applied, 
because  the  acid  of  the  vinegar  will  de- 
compose the  soap  and  seriously  injure  the 
skin. 

The  Use  of  Rice  Powder. 

It  is  sometimes  necessary  to  powder  the 
face,  but  powder  should  be  applied  lightly 
and  artistically  in  order  to  impart  to  the 
skin  the  velvety  softness  of  the  peach. 
Powder  on  the  face  should  be  impercepti- 
ble, and,  if  used  with  discretion,  is  not  to 
be  condemned. 

Take  up  but  a  small  quantity  of  powder 
on  the  puff,  and  pass  lightly  over  the  face. 
Care  should  be  taken  not  to  powder  the  eye- 
brows, and  the  lips  must  be  carefully  wiped 
to  remove  an}^  powder  which  may  have 
fallen.  The  whole  face,  except  the  eyes, 
the  eyebrows,  and  lips,  should  receive  a 
touch  of  powder. 

Acne  or  Blackheads. 

Acne  is  the  commonest  form  of  facial 
eruption,  it  appearing  as  small  black  points 
on  the  nose,  cheeks,  and  chin.  Each  speck 
marks  an  obstructed  outlet  of  the  sebaceous 
glands,  and  if  pressure  be  made  on  either 
side,  the  oily  secretion  may  be  pressed  out 
in  the  form  of  a  small  white  worm.  With 
care  in  softening  the  skin  before  pressing, 
blackheads  may  be  removed  without  leaving 
a  scar,  and  through  proper  treatment,  their 
return  may  be  prevented. 

For  three  weeks,  or  until  the  skin  is 
thoroughly  softened,  apply  Recamier  cream 
every  night  before  retiring.  Let  the  cream 
remain  on  the  face  during  the  night.  In 
the  morning  wash  it  off  with  water,  as  hot 
as  can  pleasantly  be  borne,  and  a  little 
pure  soap.  Rinse  the  face  thoroughly  with 
cooler  water.  At  the  end  of  three  weeks 
the  blackheads  will,  in  most  cases,  have 
been  expelled  by  the  treatment.  In  obsti- 
nate cases  proceed  as  follows  : 

Before  attempting  the  removal  of  these 
blemishes,  apply  a  little  Recamier  cream. 
Press  on  either  side  of  the  clogged  pore  un- 
til the  so-called  "worm"  is  forced  out. 
Be  care:f?il  not  to  be  rough  and  injure  the 


skin  by  sharp  finger  nails  or  any  steel  in 
strument ;  if  the  sebaceous  matter  will  not 
come  out,  it  is  because  the  skin  is  not  prop- 
erly softened,  and  you  must  patiently  con^ 
tinue  the  first  part  of  the  treatment.  Oper- 
ate on  the  blackheads  at  night,  if  possible, 
before  retiring,  and  do  not  attempt  to  get 
rid  of  all  at  one  time.  After  the  matter  is 
forced  out,  bathe  the  face  in  warm  water, 
in  which  put  a  little  pulverized  borax,  and 
also  use  a  little  pure  soap,  that  the  now 
emptied  folicle  maybe  thoroughly  cleansed. 
Continue  this  treatment  until  the  black- 
heads are  all  gone. 

Do  not  imagine,  however,  that  these 
troublesome  imperfections  will  not  return  if 
the  skin  is  neglected.  Nothing  but  care  and 
great  cleanliness  will  effectually  banish  these 
obnoxious  visitors. 

Redness  of  the  Nose. 

If  this  afiQiction  is  due  to  the  dryness  of 
the  nasal  passage  or  the  delicacy  of  the 
capillary  vessels,  the  inflamed  condition 
may  easily  be  removed.  The  following 
wash  can  be  recommended :  Powdered 
borax,  ten  grammes ;  one  teaspoonful  co- 
logne ;  soft  water,  150  grammes.  Melt  the 
borax  in  the  water,  then  add  the  cologne. 
It  is  sufficient  to  moisten  the  nose  with 
the  wash  and  let  it  dry  without  wiping. 
When  it  begins  to  burn  again,  the  treat- 
ment should  be  renewed . 

Here  is  another  ai  d  similar  wash  :  Dis- 
solve two  grammes  of  borax  in  fifteen 
grammes  of  rose-water,  and  as  much 
orange-flower  water.  Moisten  the  nose 
three  times  each  day  with  this  refreshing 
wash. 

Cleansing  of  the  Hair. 

The  frequent  use  of  a  fine  comb  is  fatal 
to  hair,  especially  when  it  is  falling  out. 
However,  it  is  necessary  to  cleanse  the  hair 
and  the  downy  scalp. 

The  Chinese,  who  have  abundant,  but 
coarse,  hair,  use  a  mixture  of  honey  and 
flour. 

The  following  is  an  English  recipe  :  Add 
a  teacupful  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  rain-water. 
After  twelve  hours  this  brine  is  ready  for  use. 
To  one  cupful  of  the  mixture  add  one  cup- 
ful of  hot  rain  water.  Wash  the  hair  and 
scalp,  rub  well,  rinse,  and  dry  with  a  towel. 
21 


70 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


The  Creoles  of  Cuba  make  a  decoction  of 
the  leaves  of  rosemary.  This  water,  they 
maintain,  cleanses,  strengthens,  and  softens 
the  hair. 

This  also  is  excellent :  Take  fifty 
grammes  of  the  roots  of  soap -wood  boiled 
in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water.  Wash  with 
the  hot  preparation,  then  dry  the  hair  and 
scalp  with  warm  cloths. 

The  yolk  of  an  &^<g  cleans  the  head  thor- 
oughly and  causes  the  hair  to  grow.  Only 
the  scalp  should  be  rubbed  with  the  yolk, 
and  the  head  rinsed  in  hot  water.  The 
beaten  white  of  eggs  is  also  recommended 
as  a  simple  and  efficacious  preparation  for 
cleansing  the  hair.  Rub  the  scalp,  and  rinse 
-n  hot  water. 

The  custom  of  shampooing  originated  in 
England.  Take  one  quart  of  cold  or  hot 
water  into  which  is  melted  thirty  grammes 
of  carbonate  of  soda  and  fifteen  grammes  of 
soap,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Add  a  few 
drops  of  perfume  and  thirty  grammes  of 
spirits  of  wine.  After  washing  with  this 
preparation,  rinse  the  hair  in  warm  water. 
Afterward  rub  the  hair  and  scalp  until  dry 
with  warm  towels. 

♦  The  hair  should  always  be  thoroughly 
and  rapidly  dried.  After  drying,  let  it  hang 
loosely  on  the  shoulders  for  an  hour  or  two 
if  necessary. 

Hair,   especially  gray,  may  be  cleansed 

with  powder.     Afterward,  it  should  be  care- 

fuUy  brushed.     This  is  an  excellent  method, 

nough  it  is  difficult  to  remove  the  traces  of 

powder  from  dark  hair. 

Diseases  of  the  Hair. 

Dandruff  is  not  only  very  disagreeable, 
trut  produces  baldness.  Before  resorting  to 
medical  treatment  for  this  disease,  which  is 
sometimes  obstinate,  because  it  depends  on 
a  bad  state  of  health,  try  one  of  the  following 
simple  remedies  :  First,  melt  sixty  grammes 
of  crystallized  soda  in  a  quart  of  water  ;  add 
thirty  grammes  of  cologne  water.  Moisten 
the  hairbrush  in  the  liquid  and  pass  it  each 
day  over  the  affected  part.  Second,  a  phy- 
sician recommends  the  application  of  lemon 
juice  to  the  scalp.  Keep  the  juice  as  much 
as  possible  from  the  hah.  Third,  take  ten 
grammes  of  Panama  wood  ;  boil  in  a  pint  of 
rain-water.     Wash  the   affected  parts  with 


22Z 


this   decoction   two    or    tnree    times    each 
week. 

When  the  hair  falls  out  without  apparent 
cause,  it  is  diseased.  This  is  the  case  when 
the  ends  split.  Sorrow  causes  the  hair  to 
fall  out.  For  this  there  is  no  remedy  save 
time  and  forgetfulness,  and  happier  days. 

An  animal  is  known  to  be  unhealthy  if 
its  hair  is  not  soft  and  shiny.  It  is  the  same 
with  men  and  women,  and  if  this  is  the  case 
it  is  important  to  consider  the  state  of  the 
health.  A  good  treatment  for  hair  under 
these  circumstances  is  to  rub  the  scalp  with 
soap  and  a  mixture  of  castor-oil,  sweet 
almond,  and  tannin. 

When,  after  cases  of  short  and  severe  ill- 
ness or  long-continued  ill-health,  the  hair 
falls  out,  as  the  saying  goes,  "  by  the  hand- 
ful," it  should  be  cut  quite  short  and  kept 
clipped  for  at  least  a  twelvemonth,  rubbing 
the  scalp  regularly  with  some  wash  possess- 
ing tonic  qualities. 

Another  point  to  be  carefully  noted  is  the 
manner  of  cutting  the  hair.  The  weakest 
and  thinnest  growth,  when  the  hair  has  a 
marked  tendency  to  fall  out,  is  almost  invari- 
ably along  the  central  parting  and  about  the 
crown.  At  these  parts,  therefore,  the  hair 
should  be  clipped  more  frequently  than  any- 
where else,  and  the  utmost  care  should  be 
used  to  keep  the  hairs  on  the  top  of  the  head 
shorter  than  at  the  sides  and  back,  where  the 
growth  is  stronger.  Unfortunately,  how- 
ever, the  opposite  course  is  generally  pur- 
sued, the  locks  at  the  sides  and  back  being 
often  very  closely  clipped,  while  the  hair  on 
the  crown  and  along  the  parting  is  left  quite 
long. 

Grease  must  never  be  used  ;  it  will  fill 
the  pores  of  the  skin  and  injure  the  delicate 
new  growth.  A  weak  solution  of  the  essen- 
tial oils  of  thyme  or  rosemary,  strong  rose- 
mary tea,  or  ammonia,  very  much  diluted 
with  water,  may  be  rubbed  in  to  stimulate 
the  growth. 

Baldness. 

Baldness  is  not  so  serious  a  matter  to  a 
man  as  to  a  woman,  for  he  has  the  comfort 
of  knowing  that  he  has  many  companions  in 
his  misery. 

But  a  bald  woman  is  really  to  be  pitied. 
It  is  impossible  to  accept  such  a  misfortune 
with   resignation ;  she   must   conceal  it  by 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


71 


every  means  in  her  power.  She  is  often 
compelled  to  resort  to  a  wig,  or  to  caps  such 
as  are  worn  by  dowagers. 

The  growing  tendency  to  baldness  among 
women  has  been  attributed  to  the  use  of  hot 
irons  for  crimping  ;  to  false  hair  ;  to  over- 
heating the  scalp  by  head-dresses.  It  is, 
perhaps,  still  more  due  to  the  use  of  dyes. 

We  no  longer  wait  for  gray  hairs,  but 
vary  the  color  of  the  hair  to  suit  our  caprices, 
and  quite  frequently  the  brunette  of  to-day 
may  appear  to-morrow  with  golden  or  even 
red  hair.  Those  who  have  black  hair  some- 
times stain  it  mahogany  color^  Blondes 
whose  hair  is  growing  darker  lighten  it  by 
the  use  of  oxygenated  water,  which  removes 
the  color.  Many  woman  will  resort  to  any 
means  rather  than  allow  the  hair  to  grow 
gray  naturally.  Such  practices  are  much  to 
be  condemned.  Let  us  remain  as  we  are, 
content  to  grow  old  gracefully. 

Remedies  for  Falling  Hair. 

The  juice  of  a  lemon  applied  to  the  scalp 
is  said  to  be  a  remedy  for  the  falling  out  of 
dark  hair. 

The  following  recipe  has  been  used  suc- 
cessfully :  Wash  the  head  each  night,  rub- 
bing in  carefully  the  following  mixture  : 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  gramme 
and  a  half  of  quinine,  added  to  a  pint  of 
brandy  ;  mix  well. 

The  following  remedy  has  also  been  used 
with  good  results :  Steep  three  common 
onions  in  a  quart  of  rum  for  twenty-four 
hours ;  remove  the  onions  and  apply  the 
liquor  to  the  scalp  every  second  day.  The 
slight  odor  of  onions  soon  disappears. 

The  English  medical  journal.  The  Lancet, 
recommends  the  following  pomatum  :  Tinc- 
ture of  jaborandi,  fifteen  grammes ;  lan- 
oline,  nine  grammes ;  glycerine,  sixty 
grammes.  Mix  with  a  little  soft  soap,  and 
apply  to  the  scalp  every  night. 

Good  results  have  been  also  obtained  by 
using  walnut  leaves  steeped  in  water.  Dip 
a  small  sponge  into  the  liquid,  and  moisten 
the  scalp  each  night.  In  the  morning  use 
the  following  prescription  :  Perfumed  soft 
animal  fat,  sixty  grammes ;  tannin,  two 
grammes  ;  tincture  benzoin,  six  grammes. 

After  an  illness  it  is  unwise  to  shave  the 
head.     The  hair  will  not  fall  out  if  cut  at 


intervals  of  three  weeks.  Each  time  a  cer- 
tain quantity  must  be  cut,  proportionate  to 
the  whole  length  of  the  hair ;  the  last  cut- 
ting should  be  about  to  the  lobe  of  the  ear. 
False  hair  should  not  be  worn,  as  it  some- 
times causes  total  baldness.  From  the  day 
on  which  the  hair  is  first  cut,  the  head  must 
be  rubbed  with  a  mixture  of  equal  parts  of 
rum  and  castor-oil.  Hot  sage  tea  is  also 
recommended,  provided  the  head  is  we'.l 
dried  with  a  warm  towel. 

Cleansing  of  Combs  and  Brushes. 

Nothing  is  better  for  cleansing  brushes 
than  ammonia;  it  does  not  soften  the  bristles, 
as  soap  and  soda  do.  Put  a  teaspoonful  of 
ammonia  into  a  quart  of  water,  and  soak 
the  bristles  in  the  solution  (keeping  the 
ivory,  bone,  or  varnished  back  out  of  the 
water).  The  brush  must  then  be  rinsed  in 
fresh  water  and  dried  in  the  air,  but  not  in 
the  sun. 

Combs  should  never  be  washed.  They 
may  be  cleansed  by  passing  a  coarse  thread 
or  card  between  the  teeth.  There  is  also  a 
small  brush  which  is  used  for  cleaning 
combs. 

The  greatest  cleanliness  is  necessary  for 
all  articles  used  for  dressing  the  hair. 

If  you  use  ammonia  in  your  bath,  avoid 
wetting  the  hair  except  when  necessary, 
because  ammonia  fades  the  hair. 

Care  of  the  Eyes. 

Never  rub  the  eyes,  for  this  practice 
causes  inflammation  of  the  lids,  and  how- 
ever beautiful  the  expression,  if  the  eyes 
are  red  or  without  lashes,  they  lose  their 
charm. 

Avoid  all  ointments,  washes,  etc.,  not 
prescribed  by  a  good  physician  or  oculist. 
It  is  impossible  too  strongly  to  denounce 
the  use  of  so-called  "  eye-beautifiers. " 
Many  women  have  ruined  their  eyes  from 
just  such  folly. 

If  the  eyelids  are  inflamed,  wash  them 
in  rose-water  and  plantain.  The  juice  of 
the  strawberry  strained  through  a  piece  of 
linen  is  very  efficacious. 

An  old  physician  has  advised  the  use  of 
elderberry-water    for     the    painful   itching 
sometimes  felt  in  the  eyes. 
23 


72 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


A  physician  recommends  the  following 
prescription  :  One  quart  of  soft  water,  a 
pinch  of  common  salt,  a  spoonful  of  brandy. 
Allow  it  to  dissolve.  Shake  well  before 
using.  This  wash  will  strengthen  the  sight 
and  restore  its  powers. 

A  skillful  oculist  says  that  the  eyes 
should  be  bathed  night  and  morning.  Cold 
water  will  serve  while  young,  but  after 
middle  age  use  water  as  hot  as  the  hands 
can  bear  ;  rinse  with  cold  water  afterward. 
This  is  recommended  as  a  great  preservative 
of  the  strength  of  the  eyes. 

However  strong  the  eyes  may  be,  give 
them  a  little  rest  after  a  few  hours'  continu- 
ous use.  Never  force  them  to  gaze  at  minute 
objects  when  they  are  weak  ;  never  read, 
write,  or  sew  with  too  dim  a  light.  During 
all  continuous  work  close  the  eyes  at  inter- 
vals for  a  short  time.  The  light  should  fall 
from  the  side  or  over  the  shoulder,  not  full 
in  the  face.  Never  read  or  write  while 
lying  dowm.  Do  not  read  while  traveling 
or  walking,  or  while  physically  tired. 
Hygienic  conditions,  sobriety,  the  avoid- 
ance of  all  excesses,  are  rewarded  by  good 
eyesight. 

Care  of  the  Teeth. 

Cleanliness  is  one  of  the  surest  means 
for  overcoming  the  causes  which  lead  to  the 
destruction  of  the  teeth.  They  should  be 
carefully  brushed  night  and  morning  ;  it  is 
a .  good  practice  to  rinse  the  mouth  after 
each  meal,  if  possible  ;  the  particles  of  food 
which  lodge  between  the  teeth  decompose 
and  cause,  sooner  or  later,  the  abominable 
tartar  which  is  so  fatal  to  teeth. 

Some  persons  use  cold  water  in  cleans- 
ing the  teeth  and  rinsing  the  mouth.  I  ad- 
vise warm  water  for  both  purposes.  One 
should  use  an  infusion  of  mint  or  the  fol- 
lowing mixture  :  Three  grammes  of  borax 
and  nine  grammes  of  pure  glycerine,  in  a 
quart  of  warm  water.  The  first  and  more 
simple  wash  is  the  better. 

It  is  sufficient  to  brush  the  teeth  with 
soap  two  or  three  times  each  week  (without 
interfering  with  the  daily  cleansing).  For 
this  a  very  pure  soap  should  be  used.  It  is 
not  an  agreeable  process,  but  one  soon  be- 
comes used  to  it,  and  the  results  are  very 
desirable.  Soap  contains  alkali,  and  alkalies 


are  highly  recommended  for  the  teetL. 
They  are  antiseptic,  and,  therefore,  very 
useful  for  the  mouth.  Soap  removes  the 
deposits  on  the  teeth,  which  many  of  the 
most  famous  powders  do  not,  except  by 
destroying  the  enamel  which  protects  them. 

Teeth  should  not  be  brushed  too  long  at 
a  time.  Doing  this  injures  the  gums,  and 
in  this  way  the  teeth  may  be  loosened. 
The  upper  teeth  should  be  brushed  from 
above  downwards  (from  the  gums  toward 
the  edges),  the  lower  teeth  from  below  up- 
wards. The  inside  of  the  teeth  should  be 
as  carefully  brushed  as  the  outside. 

The  gums  must  be  well  cared  for,  for 
when  they  are  healthy  there  is  a  better 
chance  that  the  teeth  will  be  healthy  also. 

When  they  are  soft  the  following  pow- 
der will  harden  them  :  Peruvian  bark,  fif- 
teen grammes ;  powdered  ratanhia,  six 
grammes ;  chlorate  of  potassa,  five 
grammes.  These  powders  should  be  well 
mixed  so  as  to  form  but  one,  with  which 
the  gums  should  be  rubbed  three  or  four 
times  daily. 

The  gums  must  be  gradually  accustomed 
to  vigorous  friction.  When  soft,  gums 
bleed  easily.  They  should  be  washed  in 
an  infusion  of  gentian  or  blackberry  leaves, 
into  which  are  put  a  few  drops  of  the 
tincture  of  Peruvian  bark,  or  cologne. 
Lemon  juice  also  has  excellent  effects  on 
gums  which  are  soft,  or  even  where  there  is 
ulceration.  Dip  a  little  soft  brush  in  the 
juice,  and  carefully  pass  over  the  sore 
places  without  touching  the  teeth.  Paint- 
ing the  gums  with  a  tincture  of  ratanhia 
and  the  tincture  of  pyrethrum  in  equal 
parts  is  often  recommended.  Apply  at 
night. 

A  decoction  of  myrrh,  tannin,  and  oak 
bark  is  an  excellent  astringent  for  tender  or 
bleeding  gums. 

There  are  foods  which  injure  the  teeth — 
sugar,  sweets,  pastry,  etc.  The  abuse  of 
acids  destroys  the  enamel  of  the  teeth. 
Figs,  like  sugar,  relax  and  soften  the 
gums  ;  oils,  natural  fat,  or  grease,  do  them 
no  good. 

Be  careful  not  to  drink  anything  very 
cold    immediately    after  swallowing  soup. 
The    teeth    will    suffer    from    the    violent 
change  of  temperature. 
24 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


73 


Care  of  the  Hands. 

In  doing  housework  or  gardening,  old 
gloves  which  have  lost  their  freshness  and 
grown  large  by  use  may  be  worn-  They 
will  protect  the  hands  from  the  effects  of 
the  air,  and  keep  them  clean.  Too  frequent 
washing  is  open  to  objection,  but  there  are 
many  labors  which  cannot  be  performed 
with  covered  hands,  and  in  that  case  they 
must  be  washed  as  often  as  necessary.  A 
perfectly  pure  soap  should  be  used.  A  little 
almond  meal  may  be  put  into  the  warm 
water  in  which  the  hands  are  washed,  and 
if  they  are  much  soiled  a  little  borax  or 
ammonia  may  be  added. 

The  roughest  hands  will  be  softened  if 
care  is  given  them  before  retiring  at  night. 
It  scarcely  requires  five  minutes  to  efface 
the  traces  which  the  rudest  labor  may  have 
left  on  the  hands.  And  the  necessary 
articles  are  not  expensive.  A  nail  brush,  a 
box  of  rose  paste,  a  box  of  nail  powder,  a 
vial  of  ammonia,  almond  meal,  and  French 
amandine  and  a  lemon  are  useful. 

If  a  callous  spot  forms  on  the  inside  of  the 
hand  it  must  be  rubbed,  as  patiently  and  for 
as  long  a  time  as  may  be  necessary,  with 
pumice  stone.  The  operation  preserves  the 
softness  of  the  hand  and  thedelicacy  of  touch. 

Stains  may  be  removed  by  lemon,  borax, 
or  ammonia,  according  to  their  nature. 
When  the  hands  have  been  perfectly 
cleansed,  rub  them  with  French  amandine. 
Wear  gloves  while  sweeping. 

If  glycerine  were  not  injurious  to  many 
skins  it  would  be  excellent.  The  following 
mixture  will  be  acceptable  to  those  who  can 
use  glycerine :  The  yolk  of  an  ^%%,  six 
grammes  of  "glycerine,  seven  grammes  of 
borax.  Mix  well.  Rub  the  hands  with 
this  salve,  and  cover  them  with  gloves. 
Almond  meal  will  do  as  well. 

If  the  hands  are  very  rough,  and  have 
been  much  used,  cold-cream  may  be  em- 
ployed with  great  advantage  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  daily  treatment  which  has  been 
suggested.  After  using  for  one  month  the 
hands  will  be  suflSciently  improved  to  need 
only  almond  meal. 

Women  who  do  no  domestic  work  may 
keep  their  hands  white  by  simply  washing 
them  night  and  morning  in  bran-water. 

22 


Washing  the  Hands  Duritujf  the  Day. 

Never  have  soiled  hands,  but  do  not  wash 
oftener  than  necessary.  Lemon  juice  wil) 
remove  many  stains.  If  a  little  salt  is  added 
to  this  juice  it  is  still  more  efiicacioms. 

A  bit  of  orange  or  lemon  skin  remove? 
tar  stains.  Care  must  be  taken  to  wipe  the 
hands .  dry  immediately.  Fresh  tomatoes 
and  strawberries,  a  leaf  of  sorrel,  a  little 
milk,  are  excellent  for  removing  ink  rtains, 

Before  peeling  Irish  potatoes,  the  hands 
should  be  well  dried,  and  should  not  be 
washed  immediately  after.  By  this  slight, 
precaution  they  will  not  be  stained  with  the 
juice  of  the  tuber.  After  paring  certain 
fruits  and  vegetables  a  little  lemon  juice  re- 
moves all  stain.  The  hands  must  first  b^ 
moistened  in  water. 

To  cleanse  the  hands  after  very  rough 
work  use  a  good  emollient  or  cream.  Rub 
the  hands  with  a  small  quantity  of  the  emol- 
lient, which  will  penetrate  well  into  the 
pores  of  the  skin  and  become  incorporated 
with  the  greasy  substances.  Wash  thf* 
hands  in  hot  water  and  soap.  This  treat' 
ment  make  them  very  soft. 

Hands  which  are  ' '  sanctified  by  labor ' 
may  thus   retain  an  agreeable  appearance, 
which   is   not   to   be   disdained,    especially' 
when  it  is  so  easily  obtained. 

Moist  hands  are  unfit  for  certain  kindf 
of  work,  and  are  unpleasant  to  the  touch. 

To  keep  the  hands  agreeably  dry,  rub 
the  palms  several  times  each  day  with  a 
cloth  soaked  in  the  following  preparation  : 
Cologne  water,  seventy  grammes  ;  tincture 
of  belladonna,  fifteen  grammes. 

Hands  which  have  a  tendency  to  per- 
spire too  freely  when  exposed  to  the  slight- 
est heat  may  be  washed  in  water  in  which  ? 
little  powdered  alum  has  been  dissolved. 

Sunburned  Hands. 

At  the  close  of  summer,  hands  whicl? 
have  been  kissed  too  often  by  the  sun  are  a 
source  of  annoyance.  The  present  rage  for 
out-of-door  sports,  such  as  croquet,  lawn 
tennis,  sailing  and  rowing,  has  played  havoc 
with  many  fair  hands.  The  sunburned 
hand  is  in  harmony  with  the  life  led  in 
summer.  On  returning  to  town  and  re- 
suming laces  and  silks  the  contrast  is  not 


74 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


pleasing.     One  is  tempted  too  late  to  regret 
not  having  worn  gloves. 

Time  is  a  certain  cure  for  sunburn. 
When  it  is  impossible  to  wait,  there  are 
other  remedies  which  it  may  be  well  to  try  ; 
lemon  juice  and  glycerine  mixed,  or  a  paste 
made  of  corn  starch  and  glycerine,  or  simply 
buttermilk.  The  acidity  of  the  latter  is  said 
to  remove  freckles  and  sunburn,  and  the  oil 
contained  in  it  is  beneficial  and  softening  to 
the  skin. 

Chapped  Hands. 

For  children,  and  even  for  many  grown 
persons,  winter  is  the  time  for  chapped 
hands.  It  requires  but  little  care  to  avoid 
the  suffering  which  results  from  chapped 
skin .  It  is  essential  that  the  hands  should 
be  thoroughly  dried  each  time  they  are 
washed,  and  never  exposed,  when  moist, 
either  to  cold  or  to  the  heat  of  the  fire. 

Women  who  are  occupied  with  house- 
hold cares,  who  paint,  or  are  engaged  in 
similar  occupations,  are  obliged  to  wash 
their  hands  frequently,  and  in  order  to  save 
time  they  are  often  careless  about  drying 
them  ;  the  result  is  a  rough,  red  skin. 
Never  neglect  to  dry  your  hands  as  thor- 
oughly as  possible.  They  may  also  be 
manipulated  before  the  fire  until  soft  and 
flexible. 

Rubbing  the  hands  with  amandine  before 
retiring  preserves  them  from  the  disastrous 
effects  of  cold  or  heat  to  which  they  may 
have  been  subjected.  They  must  not  be 
washed  in  cold  water,  as  this  predisposes 
them  to  chapping,  but  very  hot  water  is  not 
good  for  them  either.  People  who  have  not 
moist  skins  should  be  especially  careful  to 
dry  the  hands  thoroughly  after  washing. 
They  may  afterward  be  covered  with  cold- 
cream  or  amandine,  which  should  be  wiped 
off  with  a  soft  towel. 

Where  these  precautions  are  not  taken 
and  the  hands  are  neglected,  a  cure  may  be 
effected  by  the  following  treatment :  Wash 
the  hands  in  hot  water  and  anoint  them  well 
with  amandine,  honey  paste,  or  cold-cream. 
Rub  the  hands  together,  interlacing  the  fin- 
gers, until  they  become  soft  and  are  no 
longer  easily  hurt  when  struck  against  any 
hard  substance.  Afterward  it  will  be  neces- 
sary to  remove  the  grease  by  washing  them 


in  warm  water  with  a  few  drops  of  ammonia 
and  a  pure  soap.  Change  the  water  several 
times.  Then  apply  to  the  hands  the  follow- 
ing mixture  :  Glycerine,  cologne,  soft  water, 
equal  parts.  After  this  process  the  hands 
will  be  soft  and  not  at  all  greasy  or  sticky, 
as  might  be  supposed. 

Chilblains. 

Chilblains  are  still  more  to  be  feared  than 
chapping.  A  feeble  temperament  and  bad 
nourishment  are  often  the  causes  of  this 
affection.  One  should  walk  a  great  deal, 
use  the  hands  freely,  rub  the  chilblain  parts 
which  are  not  bleeding  with  alcoholic  prepa- 
rations, and  keep  hands  and  feet  very  warm. 

One  would  suppose  the  hands  less  deli- 
cate and  less  in  need  of  covering  than  the 
face.  However,  everyone  knows  the  neces- 
sity of  protecting  them  from  the  biting  cold 
of  frost  or  wind . 

In  damp  and  mild  winters  chilblains  are 
most  painful.  There  are  many  remedies  for 
this  trouble,  which  is  not  dangerous,  but 
the  cause  of  great  suffering,  and  which  will 
deform  the  prettiest  hands  in  the  world. 

First. — Pound  the  bulbs  of  lilies  and 
place  them  in  a  vase  containing  nut  oil. 
Apply  this  liniment  on  the  sore  places,  and 
cover  with  a  soft  cloth.      (This  is  excellent. ) 

Second. — Honey  will  cicatrize  open  chil- 
blains. Anoint  the  parts  affected,  and  cover 
with  a  soft  white  cloth. 

Third. — Poultice  the  hands  at  night ; 
rub  with  the  following  mixture  in  the  morn- 
ing :  Tincture  benzoin,  sixty  grammes"; 
honey,  thirty  grammes ;  water,  210  grammes. 
Mix  well. 

Fourth. — Wash  ulcerated  chilblains  with 
tincture  of  myrrh  diluted  with  warm  water. 

Fifth. — Anoint  cracked  chilblains  with 
Sultana  pomatum,  and  cover  with  a  soft, 
fine  cloth.  Cracked  chilblains  are  difficult 
to  cure  in  winter. 

Care  of  the  Nails. 

The  nails  should  be  cut  in  a  curve  which 
follows  the  shape  of  the  end  of  the  finger. 
Their  surface  should  also  be  polished.  One 
hour  a  week  spent  in  caring  for  them  is 
sufficient  to  keep  them  in  good  order,  if 
they  are  rubbed  and  cleaned  carefully  each 
day. 


226 


book:  of  EriQUETTE 


75 


Never  use  a  steel  instrument  in  cleaning 
iie  nails,  as  it  hardens  them  and  causes  the 
dust  to  accumulate  beneath.  Nothing  is 
better  than  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  which 
keeps  the  skin  at  the  base  from  encroaching 
on  the  nail,  and  also  prevents  white  spots, 
often  caused  by  lack  of  care.  Cold-cream 
at  night,  or  French  amandine,  is  excellent 
for  softening  the  nails,  and  also  prevents 
them  from  breaking  off  and  becoming  dull. 

A  manicure  set  is  indispensable  for  the 
proper  care  of  the  nails.  It  should  consist 
of  an  ordinary  nail-brush,  a  still  smaller  one 
to  go  under  the  nail,  a  file,  a  polishing- 
brush,  curved  scissors — a  pair  for  each 
hand  ;  the  nails  of  the  right  hand  cannot  be 
easily  cut  with  scissors  made  for  cutting  the 
nails  of  the  left  hand. 

Good  Taste  in  Dressing. 

The  question  of  dress  is  one  of  leading 
importance  in  modern  society,  and  the 
woman  who  affects  indifference  to  it  Iscks 
judgment.  A  woman  who  dresses  badly 
loses  half  her  opportunities,  that  is,  if  the 
defects  in  her  toilet  are  the  result  of  her  in- 
difference on  the  subject.  Mme.  de  Main- 
tenon  asserted  that  good  taste  indicated 
good  sense. 

It  was  also  she  who  justly  blamed 
women  for  overtrimming  heavy  stuffs  and 
wearing  ill-chosen  ornaments.  Nothing 
can  be  more  ridiculous  than  ornaments  out 
of  place.  A  gown  of  cheap  material,  if 
'  well  made,  is  often  pretty,  though  simple 
and  unpretentious. 

Short,  stout  women  should  never  wear 
gowns  of  rough,  shaggy  materials.  Skirts 
made  of  them  fall  in  stiff  and  ungraceful 
folds,  and  the  bodies  are  equally  unbe- 
coming. 

Dress  fabrics  in  woolen  goods  should 
always  be  soft  to  the  eye  and  to  the  touch. 
China  crepes,  colored  silks  of  medium 
weight,  make  charming  costumes,  and  are 
to  be  preferred  to  the  stiff  silks  ;  but  a  black 
silk  gown  should  be  of  good  quality,  as  an 
inferior  grade  does  not  wear  well  and  soon 
grows  shabby. 

Beautiful  feathers  are  durable  and  grace- 
ful ornaments  for  bonnets ;  cheap  ones  are 
poor  economy.  L,ow-priced  finery  is  not 
worth  buying.     One   should   never  econo- 


mize in  this  way.  It  is  never  wise  tc  buy 
one  article  of  dress  noticeably  richer  than 
the  rest  of  the  wardrobe.  For  example,  a 
velvet  dress  is  serviceable,  but  unless  one 
can  afford  other  costumes  as  elegant,  it  is 
out  of  place. 

Mixed  cotton  and  wool  goods  are  usually 
almost  worthless.  One  all- woolen  gown  is 
worth  two  of  them. 

Pale-blue  is  apt  to  make  blondes  look 
ashen.  Dark- blue,  on  the  contrary,  is  very 
becoming  to  them,  and  a  blue  velvet  gown 
brings  out  all  their  delicate  coloring.  Neu- 
tral tints  are  very  unbecoming  to  them. 
Brunettes  with  an  inclination  to  be  sallow 
will  do  well  to  avoid  blue,  as  it  makes  them 
appear  greenish  or  tawny.  Green  is  trying 
to  them  unless  they  are  very  fair.  It  suits 
blondes  perfectly,  especially  those  who  have 
color. 

Pale  brunettes  should  affect  shades  of 
red,  which  increase  their  beauty.  Crimson 
may  be  worn  by  blondes.  Yellow  is  a  su- 
perb contrast  for  a  pale  brunette,  especially 
under  artificial  light,  when  it  is  more  sub- 
dued than  in  the  sunlight.  This  color  soft- 
ens an  olive  skin,  and  borrows  from  it  a 
creamy  tint,  harmonizing  wonderfully  well 
with  dark  hair  and  brilliant  eyes.  On  the 
contrary,  yellow  is  unbecoming  to  most 
blondes. 

Concerning  ^Esthetics. 

One  must  be  a  pretty  and  agreeable 
woman  as  well  as  a  good  wife  and  mother 
to  keep  the  husband  and  father  fond  of  his 
home.  It  is  often  possible  to  become  pretty 
and  agreeable  by  taking  a  little  pains. 
Choose  for  the  toilet  colors  which  harmonize 
with  the  skin  and  hair,  and  wear  well-fitting 
boots  and  gloves,  also  pretty  home  gowns, 
with  sleeves  arranged  to  show  to  advantage 
the  white  and  rounded  arm. 

Do  not  neglect  a  daily  walk  in  the  fresh 
air.  Without  this  wholesome  exercise  it  is 
impossible  to  retain  health  and  beauty.  Use 
your  intelligence  to  remain  pretty  or  to  be- 
come so.  Add  physical  to  moral  and  in- 
tellectual culture.  Superintend  your  house 
and  busy  yourself  with  your  children.  This 
activity  of  the  body,  the  heart,  and  the 
mind,  is  necessary  to  those  who  desire  to 
remain  beautiful  and  beloved. 


227 


76 


BOOK  OF  ETIQUETTE 


The  Art  of  Appearing  Always  Young. 

As  a  charming  old  lady  once  said,  "  To 
remain  always  young  one  must  be  always 
amiable." 

A  melancholy  face,  a  sullen  or  evil  look, 
is  like  coming  in  contact  with  winter ; 
whereas  a  serene  face,  a  gracious  air,  a  kind 
and  good  expression,  are  like  a  spring  day, 
and  a  smile  on  the  lips  like  its  sunshine. 

Sulky  people,  you  may  have  remarked, 
always  appear  to  be  ten  years  older  than 
they  really  are.  The  face  grows  wrinkled 
from  contracting  the  brows ;  the  mouth 
projects  disagreeably  when  sulking. 

Behold  beside  the  portrait  of  the  sullen 
woman  the  picture  of  a  sweet  and  gracious 
woman  :  all  her  features  are  in  repose,  her 
lips  form  an  adorable  Cupid's  bow,  kind- 
ness softens  her  glance,  and  goodness  illu- 
minates her  brow. 

Perhaps  she  is  the  elder,  but  she  will 
always  appear  young  and  charming. 

Grace  of  Movement. 

To  be  graceful,  harmony  must  govern 
our  movements. 

There  are  women  who  possess  in  a  su- 
perior degree  the  intuition  of  harmony,  who 
select  unconsciously  their  seats,  their  poses, 
according  to  the  toilets  which  they  wear. 
Dressed  in  a  simple  costume,  they  lean 
against  a  piece  of  furniture  of  severe  style, 
or  sit  erect  upon  an  oaken  chair,  which  is  in 
complete  harmony  with  the  appearance  they 
present  in  their  tailor-made  gowns.  In  the 
evening,  robed  in  silks  and  laces,  they  as 
naturally  select  luxurious  sofas,  ottomans, 
and  easy -chairs,  which  are  in  perfect  accord 
with  their  costumes.  This  is  not  possible 
for  the  stiff,  angular  woman,  whose  move- 
ments are  brusque  and  awkward. 

Those  who  know  how  to  walk  and  carry 
themselves  possess  equilibrium.  Perhaps 
this  gift  of  nature  has  never  been  lost  by  ac- 
quiring bad  habits,  or  they  have  recon- 
quered it  by  means  of  study. 

If  you  are  inclined  to  stoop,  walk  to  and 
fro  with  your  hands  behind  your  back  when 
you  are  alone  in  the  garden  or  house. 

Children  should  be  taught  to  throw  their 
shoulders  back  by  being  made  to  walk  with 
elbows  close  to  the  body.  This  will  natur- 
ally keep  the  chin  free  and  the  chest  thrown 


forward.  The  back  will  curve  in,  the 
shoulder-blades  be  kept  in  their  places  in- 
stead of  projecting,  the  bust  will  arch  itself, 
and  the  entire  weight  of  the  body  be  thrown 
on  the  hips,  which  is  necessary  for  a  perfect 
equilibrium. 

One  should  practice  touching  the  ground 
first  with  the  ball  of  the  foot,  tou  avoid 
walking  on  the  heels  with  toes  in  the  air, 
which  is  ugly,  clumsy,  and  ungraceful,  ex- 
posing the  whole  system  to  the  useless  jolt- 
ing Nature  tried  to  spare  us  when  she 
formed  the  ball  of  the  foot. 

When  mounting  a  stairway  or  climbing 
a  hill,  for  the  sake  of  the  lungs  as  well  as 
to  obtain  a  graceful  carriage,  both  back  and 
head  should  be  held  erect, 

Grace  of  Form. 

To  retain  your  graceful  form,  then,  learn 
how  to  carry  yourself.  If  women  would 
be  more  careful  about  this  while  young, 
they  would  have  finer  figures  and  more 
slender  hips  when  older.  The  woman  who 
holds  herself  straight,  who  does  not  draw 
her  chin  to  the  collar  of  her  garment,  who 
keeps  back  her  shoulder-blades,  and  thus 
rounds  out  her  bust,  without  an  apparent 
effort  keeps  her  muscles  firm  and  flexible 
and  the  desired  curve  in  place  of  flatness. 
Thus  the  heaviness  which  is  so  much 
dreaded,  and  which  destroys  all  youthful- 
ness  and  grace,  may  be  avoided. 

The  woman  who  holds  herself  well,  who 
throws  the  weight  of  her  body  on  her  hips 
(this  cannot  be  too  often  repeated),  instead 
of  allowing  it  to  be  supported  by  the  abdo- 
men, has  the  carriage  of  a  queen,  the  walk 
of  a  nymph .  Do  not  fear  that  you  will  ac- 
quire a  haughty  expression.  On  the  con- 
trary, if  your  eyes  are  tender  and  your 
smile  is  amiable,  your  proud  grace  will  not 
make  you  unsympathetic. 

I  do  not  mean  by  this  that  you  should 
carry  your  head  like  a  peacock,  or  stiffen 
yourself,  or  strut ;  but  hold  Ihe  bust  in  the 
firm  and  straight  position  which  nature  de- 
signed, whether  you  walk,  or  sit,  or  stand. 

By  following  this  advice  you  will  stoop 
or  lean  with  a  thousand  times  more  grace 
and  flexibility  than  a  woman  who  relaxes, 
bends,  rounds  her  back  from  a  mere  habit 
of  indifference. 


228 


BOOK  v.— PART  I. 

TUBERCULOSIS 

The  entire  nation  has  been  aroused  to  fight  The  Great  White  Plague  and 
stamp  it  out  of  existence.  Millions  have  died  of  this  dread  disease,  and  its 
terrible  infection  seems  to  be  lurking  for  us  in  every  walk  of  life.  It  is  of  the 
greatest  importance  that  every  one  should  know  how  to  prevent  consumption 
from  taking  hold  of  the  system,  and  Dr.  Flick,  the  author  of  this  section,  has 
written  it  down  in  the  clearest  language.  Dr.  Flick  is  one  of  the  very  foremost 
authorities  on  consumption,  in  the  world.  When  Henry  Phipps,  who  was 
the  partner  of  Andrew  Carnegie,  founded  his  great  Institute  for  the  Study, 
Treatment  and  Prevention  of  Tuberculosis,  Dr.  Flick  was  chosen  to  be  its 
active  head.  His  reputation  and  position  give  these  words  of  his  the  greatest 
weight.  He  tells  what  the  disease  is  and  how  it  spreads,  how  it  is  prevented, 
and  how  it  can  be  cured,  so  that  the  reader  is  well  prepared  to  protect  himself 
and  his  loved  ones  from  this  calamity. 


Tuberculosis 

A    CURABLE    AND    PREVENTABLE     DISEASE 

By  LAWRENCE  F.  FLICK,  M.  D. 

Medical  Director  of  the  Henry  Phipps  Institute  for  the  Study, 
Treatment  and  Prevention  of  Tuberculosis. 


The  Microscopic  World. — With  Pas- 
teur's discovery  of  the  micro-organic  world 
civilization  entered  upon  a  new  epoch. 
With  it  many  of  the  phenomena  of  life 
which  had  not  been  understood  and  which 
had  led  to  superstitious  practices  became 
clear  and  intelligible.  Disease  for  the  first 
time  appeared  in  its  real  character  and  came 
within  the  control  of  man  on  a  rational  and 
exact  basis.  In  the  wake  of  Pasteur's 
work  Koch  discovered  the  active  cause  of 
consumption,  a  living  entity  subject  to  the 
same  fundamental  laws  as  govern  all  living 
things.  With  Koch's  revelation  an  on- 
slaught upon  consumption  began.  It  has 
gained  force  with  every  step  since  then  and 
will  culminate  in  the  complete  extermina- 
tion of  the  white  plague,  as  consumption 
has  been  properly  termed. 

What  Consumption  is. — Consumption 
is  caused  by  the  growth  of  certain  micro- 
organisms in  the  tissue  of  our  bodies. 
These  micro-organisms  grow  in  us  in  the 
same  way  as  wheat,  timothy  and  clover 
grow  in  a  field.  The  chief  of  them  is  called 
the  tubercle  bacillus.  Without  it  consump- 
tion cannot  take  place,  but  it  alone  cannot 
produce  all  the  phenomena  which  we  know 
as  consumption.  Some  of  the  others 
which  help  to  make  up  the  disease  are  the 
streptococcus  and  the  staphylococcus. 
The  word  consumption  means  burning  up, 
and  was  given  to  the  disease  because  the 
person  who  is  affected  wastes  away  as 
though  he  were  consumed.     In  olden  times 


the  disease  was  not  recognized  until  the 
patient  was  on  the  brink  of  the  grave.  The 
stages  which  lead  up  to  this  fatal  termina- 
tion were  usually  looked  upon  as  other  dis- 
eases and  were  known  under  other  names. 
This  relationship  was  not  recognized  until 
scientific  men  began  to  dissect  the  human 
body  after  death  and  carefully  study  the 
changes  which  had  taken  place.  It  was 
then  that  the  word  tuberculosis  came  into 
use.  It  was  gradually  substituted  for  the 
word  consumption. 

What  Tuberculosis  is. — Tuberculosis  is 
the  implantation  and  growth  of  the  tuber- 
cle bacillus  in  the  tissues  of  a  human  being 
or  an  animal.  The  tubercle  bacillus  as  a 
living  entity  conforms  more  nearly  to  the 
laws  governing  the  vegetable  kingdom 
than  those  governing  the  animal  kingdom. 
It  is  rod-shaped  about  one  six-thousandth 
of  an  inch  in  length  and  about  one  hundred- 
thousandth  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  It 
grows  on  the  tissue  as  a  parasite  and  ordi- 
narily does  not  grow  except  upon  the  tissue 
of  some  living  thing.  It  can  be  grown 
artificially  in  a  laboratory  on  boiled  potato, 
in  beef  tea  and  on  agar,  but  it  is  difficult 
to  grow  in  this  way.  It  is  only  when  it 
grows  upon  a  living  thing  that  the  phe- 
nomena which  it  produces  are  called  tuber- 
culosis. The  word  tuberculosis  is  derived 
from  the  Latin  word  "tuber"  which  means 
a  little  root  or  lump.  The  name  was  given 
to  the  disease  because  the  first  stage  of  it 
is  the  production  of  little  lumps. 

^31  3 


TUBERCULOSIS 


Cigar  maki 
Plasterei'S  and  white  washers  (IV) 
Compositors,  printei*s  and  pressmen  (IV) 
Servants  (I) 
Hat  and  cap  makers  (IV) 
Bookkeepei"s.  clerks,  and  copyists   (U) 
Laborers  (not  agricultural)  (I) 
ire  makers  (IV) 
Cabinet  makeis  and  upholsterers  (IV) 


pilots,  fishermen,  and  oystermen,  (VIII) 
Painters,  glaziers,  and  varnishei'S  (IV) 
ers  k 1 V  ; 

'tc.  (VII) 

Plumbers,  gaa  and  steamfittei-s  (IV) 
Masons  (brick  and  stone)  (IV 
Butchers  (IV) 

Saloon  keepers,  liquor  dealei'S,  Ibartendera.  restaurant  keepers  (III) 
BXivery  stable  keepers  and  hostlers,  (VIII) 


Dra3"Tncn,  hackmen,!  teamstei-s,  etc 
Boatmen  and  canahiien  (VIII  ) 


(VIII) 


tion.      If    tubercu- 

Marbleandstonecutters(lV)    iQg-g      yr^^Q      alwaVS 
ikers  and  tobaceo  workers  (IV)  .  -  .  "^ . 

recognized  when  it 
is  merely  tubercu- 
losis and  proper 
treatment  followed 
nobody  would  need 
to  die  of  the  dis- 
ease. When  the 
tubercle  bacillus 
gets  lodging  in  the 
tissue  it  reproduces 
itself  very  rapidly. 
The  cells  of  the 
body  at  once  start 
a  fight  with  it  and 
in  the  struggle 
many  of  them  die. 
An  accumulation 
of  dead  cells  and 
living  and  dead 
bacilli  takes  place 
on  the  battle  field 
and  a  little  lump 
forms.  This  is  the 
lump  which  has 
given  us  the  name 
tuberculosis.  By 
and  by  when  the 
little  lump  grows 
large  enough  to  be- 
come a  foreign 
body,  nature  cuts 
it  off  from  healthy 
tissue  in  order  to 
save  that  which  is 
still  healthy.  Here 
is  where  the  other 
micro-o  rganisms 
come  in  to  help  the 
tubercle  bacillus. 
The    streptococcus 

Death-rate  from  consumption,  of  men  in  fifty-three  occupations,  in  the  registration  States -„j    the    stanhvlo- 
of  the  United  States— 1900.    (Brandt.)  i  •    i  ■  ^ 

coccus  which  exist 


tioners  (IV) 
Iron  andlsteel  workei-s  (IV) 
Carpenters  and  joiners  (IV  ) 

(not  locomotive) (IV) 
Leather  woikers  (IV) 


pers  (III) 
Mill  and  factory  operatives  (textiles)  (IV) 
^iMachinists  (IV) 
B  Architects,  artists,  teachers  of  art  (VI ) 
BGjardeuers,  florists,  nurserymen,  and  vinegr 
V — .•-.■ J geons  (VI) 


I  Lawyers  (VI ) 

iPoliceme'n,  watchmen,  and  detectives  (|V) 
I  Boot  and  shoe  makei's,  (V) 
■Soldiers,  sailors,  and  murines  (U.S.)  (V) 
iCollector^,  auctioneers,  and  agents  (II) 
iSteam  railroad  employees  (VIII) 
I  Clergymen  (VI) 
i Miners  and  quarrymen  (Villi) 
I  Farmei-s,  planters,  farm  laborei-s  (VIII) 
s,  brokers,  officials  of  companies  (II) 


Distinction  between  Consumption  and 
Tuberculosis. — In  the  popular  mind  con- 
sumption and  tuberculosis  are  one  and  the 
same  thing.  They  are  not  the  same  thing, 
however,  and  it  is  worth  while  keeping  the 
distinction  in  mind.  Consumption  is  the 
terminal  stage  of  tuberculosis  but  tuber- 
culosis does  not  have  to  become  consump- 

232 


very  plentifully  in  nature,  and  which  can 
do  no  harm  to  the  body  so  long  as  it  is 
perfectly  healthy,  get  lodgment  in  this 
injured  tissue  and  help  to  break  it  down. 
What  is  called  softening  takes  place  and 
the  little  lump  becomes  a  cheesy  mass. 
This  is  consumption.  For  the  purpose  of 
getting  rid  of  this  dead  matter  nature  breaks 


TUBERCULOSIS 


a  channel  into  the  nearest  opening  of  the 
body  and  throws  it  out.  This  is  called 
ulceration  and  ejection  of  the  dead  tissue. 
During  this  time  there  is  danger  of  the 
tubercle  bacillus  again  getting  bagk  into 
the  system  through  re-infection.  If  the 
person  is  at  all  uncleanly  or  does  not  de- 
stroy every  particle  of  this  dead  tissue 
when  it  comes  off,  he  is  sure  to  re-inoculate 
himself. 

Recurrence  of  Tuberculosis. — No  one 
ever  dies' of  a  single  attack  of  tuberculosis. 
The  first  attack  is  mild.  This  is  followed 
by  one  slightly  more  severe,  and  there  is  a 
series  of  attacks,  each  more  severe  than 
the  preceding  one  until  finally  the  process 
culminates  in  death. 

Colds,  Influenza  and  Pneumonia  in 
relation  to  Tuberculosis. — Colds,  influenza 
and  pneumonia  have  been  looked  upon 
as  causes  of  consumption  and  are  still 
regarded  as  such.  They  are  not  primary 
causes  but  secondary  causes.  When  the 
tubercle  bacillus  has  gotten  into  the  system 
these  diseases  can  help  to  break  down  the 
individual  and  hurry  up  the  tuberculous 
process  but  they  cannot  themselves  pro- 
duce tuberculosis.  The  injury  which  they 
themselves  can  do  may  also  prepare  the 
individual  for  the  tubercle  bacillus.  They 
are  themselves  due  to  living  micro-organ- 
isms which  are  independent  entities.  Colds 
are  probably  due  to  various  kinds  of  micro- 
organisms whilst  influenza  and  pneumonia 
are  due  each  to  a  specific  micro-organism. 
A  micro-organism  can  only  re-produce  its 
own  kind  and  can  never  be  transformed 
into  other  micro-organisms.  A  cold  will 
therefore  always  produce  a  cold,  influenza 
will  always  produce  influenza,  pneumonia 
will  always  produce  pneumonia  and  tuber- 
culosis will  always  produce  tuberculosis. 
For  a  person  who  has  tuberculosis  an  attack 
of  cold,  influenza  or  pneumonia  is  a  serious 
matter  and  for  this  reason  tuberculous 
people  should  keep  away  from  people  who 
have  those  diseases. 

History  of  Consumption. — Consump- 
tion has  existed  in  the  world  as  long  back 
as  history  records  anything.  It  is  found 
in  every  part  of  the  habitable  globe.  It 
has  been  a  plague  upon  the  earth  in  all 


times.  It  is  a  disease  of  the  poor,  and 
flourishes  best  among  those  in  the 
lowest  walks  of  life.  In  the  United 
States  upwards  of  a  hundred  thousand 
people  die  of  it  annually,  and  throughout 
the  civilized  world  there  are  at  least  a  mil- 
lion deaths  a  year  from  the  disease.  We 
are  apt  to  form  our  ideas  about  its  preva- 
lence by  the  death  rate  from  consumption. 
This  does  not  give  a  true  picture.  Many 
people  die  of  tuberculosis  and  the  death 
is  recorded  under  some  other  name.  Many 
people  are,  moreover,  crippled  by  the  dis- 
ease without  dying.  Some  of  the  names 
under  which  consumption  parades  are 
marasmus,  meningitis,  scrofula,  inanition, 
peritonitis,  Potts  disease  and  white  swelling. 
It  often  appears  even  under  other  names, 
such  as  typhoid  fever,  pneumonia  and 
pleurisy.  Many  of  the  misshapen  people 
whom  we  see  on  the  streets  have  been  made 
so  by  tuberculosis.  Nearly  all  spinal  cur- 
vatures are  due  to  this  disease.  Some  of 
the  horrible  disfigurements  of  the  skin  are 
due  to  lupus  which  is  caused  by  tuberculo- 
sis. Some  of  the  insanities  are  due  to  this 
disease.  In  reality  the  death  rate  which 
is  recorded  under  the  head  of  consumption 
gives  b..it  a  very  faint  picture  of  the  toll 
which  tuberculosis  levies  upon  the  human 
family.  Our  insane  asylums,  orphan  asy- 
lums, almshouses,  houses  of  refuge,  re- 
formatories, prisons  and  penitentiaries 
shelter  many  of  the  indirect  results  of 
tuberculosis,  and  give  some  indication  of 
what  this  disease  costs  the  human  family. 
How  Tuberculosis  got  into  the  World. — 
The  question  is  often  asked  how  did  tuber- 
culosis get  into  the  world?  As  a  disease 
it  probably  came  through  the  sin  of  man. 
It  is  not,  however,  due  to  providential 
intervention,  as  many  formerly  believed, 
but  is  the  natural  result  of  the  working  out 
of  nature's  laws.  We  now  knoAv  that  there 
are  in  nature  millions  of  micro-organisms 
of  various  kinds  which  have  to  do  with  the 
changes  going  on  in  nature  all  the  time. 
What  we  know  as  saprophitic  micro-organ- 
isms change  dead  organic  tissue  into  inor- 
ganic tissue.  They  break  up  those  things 
which  had  life,  and  which  for  one  reason  or 
another    have    ended    their    usefulness    in 

233 


TUBERCULOSIS 


death,  into  inorganic  substances  so  that  the 
elements  can  again  go  back  to  nature  to  be 
taken  up  as  food  by  the  living  things  which 
are  still  growing  and  developing.  In  this 
way  the  chain  of  change  from  organic  to 
inorganic  tissue  and  from  inorganic  to 
organic  tissue  is  kept  up.  The  probabili- 
ties are  that  the  tubercle  bacillus  originally 
was  one  of  these  innocent  micro-organisms 
which  gradually  acquired  the  power  to 
grow  on  living  tissue  through  the  debase- 
ment of  that  tissue  by  man  when  he  failed 
to  live  up  to  the  laws  of  nature.  Even 
now  the  individual  who  keeps  himself  per- 
fectly well,  lives  in  the  open  air  and  eats 

Deaths 
per  100,000  ^ 
living       u 

too      6 White 600 

Mothers  born  in 


m     ^ 

300 

o 

_, 

eS 

s 

".  •^ 

M       «> 

1      ^ 

o     ° 

■^  t 

Li 

o 

m    O 

>.    ^    >: 

200 

e?     «      w     o     o      . 

Mortality  by  races.    (Brandt). 

only  the  things  which  he  ought  to  eat  can 
resist  tuberculosis.  When,  however, 
through  dissipation,  through  overwork, 
through  improper  housing  or  through  any 
offense  against  the  laws  of  good  health  he 
puts  his  tissue  below  par,  his  cells  become 
a  ready  prey  to  the  tubercle  bacillus.  In 
time  by  evolution  this  bacillus  has  acquired 
the  power  of  attacking  living  cells  and  this 
no  doubt  is  how  tuberculosis  came  into  the 
world. 

Is  Tuberculosis  Inherited? — The  old 
idea  was  that  tuberculosis  was  inherited. 
People  got  this  idea  because  they  saw  the 
disease  occur  so  frequently  in  families,  and 
saw  it  run  through  two  or  three  genera- 


tions.  We  now  know  why  this  happens. 
It  is  not  because  tuberculosis  is  inherited 
but  because  it  is  communicable  in  a  pecu- 
liar way.  For  communication  of  the  dis- 
ease a  long  intimate  association  is  necessary, 
such  as  most  frequently  exists  in  the  family, 
and  therefore  the  disease  is  conveyed 
oftenest  adong  the  family  tree.  The  in- 
timacy which  is  necessary  for  the  spread  of 
tuberculosis  may  also  exist  outside  of  the 
family  in  places  of  employment,  and  the 
disease  is  sometimes  conveyed  in  this  way. 
Tuberculosis  is  never  transmitted  from 
the  parent  to  the  offspring  in  the  true  sense 
of  heredity. 

Sometimes  a  child  is  born  with  the 
disease,  but  this  is  because  the  mother  has 
the  disease  so  far  advanced  and  so  widely 
distributed  in  her  body  that  the  child  gets 
it  by  direct  contact.  The  child  is  then 
born  with  the  disease  and  usually  dies 
shortly  after  birth.  Even  this  occurs  very 
rarely,  and  so  free  is  offspring  of  tuberculous 
parents  from  the  disease  that  in  some  parts 
of  the  world  tuberculous  cattle  are  used 
for  breeding  purposes,  the  young  being 
separated  from  the  parents  immediately 
after  birth  and  thus  brought  up  in  perfect 
health. 

Predisposition    to    Tuberculosis. — 

Whilst  the  disease  cannot  be  inherited  a 
predisposition  to  it  may  be  inherited. 
Some  families  undoubtedly  are  more  prone 
to  tuberculosis  than  others.  This  is  not 
only  true  of  families  but  of  races.  The 
negro  race  and  the  Indian  race  are  very 
much  more  susceptible  to  consumption 
than  the  white  races.  Some  white  races 
are  more  susceptible  than  others.  More- 
over, in  some  people  the  disease  runs  a 
much  more  violent  course  than  in  others 
and  is  much  more  likely  to  prove  fatal. 
Some  races  get  the  disease  readily  but  have 
it  in  an  exceedingly  mild  form  so  that  it 
rarely  proves  fatal.  Predisposition  is  usu- 
ally divided  into  three  kinds,  individual, 
family  and  racial.  The  individual  predis- 
position is  often  brought  about  by  improper 
living  and  by  excess  in  eating  and  drinking. 
Family  predisposition  may  be  due  to  inher- 
ited tendencies  or  to  environment  under 
which  the  family  lives.     Racial  predispo- 


TUBERCULOSIS 


sition  appears  to  hinge  largely  upon  the 
length  of  time  to  which  the  race  has  been 
exposed  to  the  disease  and  the  resistance 
which  the  race  has  built  up  against  the 
disease.  We  do  not  know  yet  exactly 
what  constitutes  predisposition  and  why  it 
exists  but  there  is  probably  the  same  funda- 
mental law  underlying  it  which  governs 
the  usefulness  of  soil  for  certain  crops. 
We  all  know  that  some  crops  do  bettei  on 
some  soils  than  others  and  that  if  we  con- 
tinue to  plant  the  same  crops  on  the  same 
soil,  year  in  and  year  out,  it  is  only  a  ques- 
tion of  time  until  the  soil  will  no  longer 
produce  the  crop.  Future  observations 
and  study  will  no  doubt  give  us  more  light 
upon  this  subject. 

Diseases  as  Predisposing  Causes  of  Con- 
sumption.— There  are  some  diseases  which 
predispose  to  consumption.  They  do  this 
in  two  ways,  by  changing  the  contour  of 
the  body  and  by  modifying  the  tissues  of 
the  body.  To  the  former  belong  rickets, 
post  nasal  adenoid  growths,  rheumatism 
and  gonorrhea.  To  the  latter  small  pox, 
measles,  whooping  cough,  typhoid  fever, 
syphilis  and  pneumonia.  Rickets  may, 
for  instance,  produce  chicken  breast  and 
thereby  interfere  with  healthy  breathing. 
Enlargement  of  the  adenoid  tissue  also 
interferes  with  breathing.  Rheumatism 
may  do  damage  to  the  heart  or  to  the 
pleura  or  the  lining  membranes  of  the 
joints  and  thereby  pave  the  way  for  the 
tubercle  bacillus.  Much  of  the  blame 
which  is  put  upon  small  pox,  measles  and 
such  acute  diseases  as  a  predisposing  cause 
of  tuberculosis  is  probably  unwarranted, 
but  it  is  possible  that  the  damage  which 
these  diseases  may  do  to  the  tissues  may 
make  soil  for  tuberculosis.  A  person  who 
has  gone  through  an  acute  disease  while 
still  weak  offers  good  soil  for  implantation 
of  the  tubercle  bacillus  if  he  is  exposed  to 
contagion  at  that  time,  and  in  this  sense,  at 
least,  all  of  the  acute  diseases  predispose  to 
tuberculosis. 

^  Dissipation  as  a  Predisposing  Cause. — 

Dissipation  is  a  predisposing  cause  of  con- 
sumption. In  this  way  consumption  is 
the  wages  of  sin.  Dissipation  is  a  scatter- 
ing of  vital  forces  by  excessive  indulgence 


of  any  kind.  It  always  strikes  at  the  most 
vulnerable  point,  and  this  is  true  when  the 
indulgence  even  seems  to  feed  the  body. 
Whatever  makes  for  lowered  vitality 
makes  for  consumption,  and  dissipation  of 
every  kind  makes  for  lowered  vitality. 
•  Dissipation  which  directly  or  indirectly 
grows  out  of  the  affinities  of  the  sexes, 
self-abuse,  sowing  of  wild  oats,  beau  catch- 
ing and  all  the  arts  and  devices  which  go 
with  it  in  these  times,  may  make  soil  for 
tuberculosis  by  exhausting  the  nervous 
system.  Loss  of  sleep,  excessive  eating 
and  drinking,  excessive  use  of  tea,  coffee 
and  tobacco  all  are  predisposing  causes. 

Want  and  Overwork  as  Predisposing 
Causes. — Two  of  the  most  potent  predis- 
posing causes  of  consumption  are  want  and 
overwork.  This  is  why  tuberculosis  is  so 
largely  a  disease  of  the  poor.  Want 
means  not  only  bad  nutrition  of  the 
body  but  bad  housing.  When  the 
body  does  not  get  enough  nutrition  it 
becomes  good  soil  for  the  tubercle  bacillus. 
Bad  nutrition  may  be  due  to  insufficient 
food  or  insufficient  fresh  air.  The  poor 
are  apt  to  lack  both  food  and  fresh  air, 
partly  because  they  cannot  afford  to  buy 
them  and  partly  on  account  of  ignorance. 
Much  of  the  food  which  poor  people  buy 
contains  little  nutrition  and  they,  more- 
over, do  not  know  how  to  prepare  it  so  as 
to  make  it  digestible.  Poor  people  should 
learn  to  buy  milk  and  eggs  rather  than 
pastry  and  sweets.  They  can  really  get 
more  nutrition  for  their  money  in  milk  and 
eggs  than  they  can  get  in  any  other  food. 
Fresh  air  is  at  the  command  of  everyone 
and  there  can  scarcely  be  any  excuse  for 
anyone  not  having  enough  of  it.  In  a 
sense,  however,  we  are  compelled  to  buy 
fresh  air  indoors  because  we  need 
houses  into  which  fresh  air  can  be  admitted. 
Houses  are  not  built  in  a  way  which  makes 
it  easy  to  get  fresh  air  into  them,  but  with 
better  understanding  of  these  matters  all 
houses  will  be  built  so  that  the  inhabitants 
of  them  can  sleep  in  the  open  air.  How- 
ever humble  the  dwelling  the  inhabitant 
of  it  should  insist  upon  having  the  sleeping 
room  so  ventilated  that  he  is  practically 
in  the  open  air.     As  to  overwork  this  is  not 

235 


8 


TUBERCULOSIS 


always  within  the  control  of  the  individual. 
Working  people,  however,  should  realize 
that  excessive  fatigue  greatly  predisposes 
to  consumption,  and  when  they  have  to 
work  hard  should  take  rest  on  every  possi- 
ble occasion.  When  people  have  tuber- 
culosis they  should  reduce  their  work  to 
within  the  limits  of  fatigue,  as  otherwise 
they  are  bound  to  go  under.  Of  all  pre- 
disposing causes  to  the  disease,  overwork  is 
probably  the  most  potent. 

Alcohol  in  Tuberculosis. — In  olden 
times    and    among   a    great  many  people 


Mortality  from  tuberculosis  of  the  lungs  in  European  states  per  million  living 
(Koehler-Hillier.) 


even  now  alcohol  is  looked  upon  as  a  pro- 
tection and  a  cure  of  consumption.  It  is 
neither,  but  on  the  contrary  is  a  predis- 
posing cause,  and  when  a  person  has  tuber- 
culosis helps  to  develop  the  disease.  It 
may  be  that  a  very  limited  amount  of  al- 
cohol taken  at  mealtime  is  of  use  in  build- 
ing up  the  body,  but  even  this  is  uncertain. 
But  whether  a  small  amount  of  alcohol 
is  beneficial  or  not  it  is  quite  certain  that 
the  quant  ;ty  which  can  safely  be  taken  daily 
is  exceedingly  small,  and  that  when  this 
amount  is  exceeded  the  alcohol  becomes 
poisonous  and  injurious.  The  only  safe 
236 


practice  to  follow  is  to  abstain  from  the 
use  of  alcohol  altogether.  Alcohol  in  the 
parent,  moreover,  leads  to  degeneration 
in  the  offspring  and  may  create  a  predis- 
position to  tuberculosis  in  the  offspring. 
For  the  person  who  has  tuberculosis  there 
is  only  one  safe  practice  and  that  is  to 
abstain  entirely  from  alcohol. 

Climate  and  Tuberculosis. — It  used  to  be 
taught  that  the  only  cure  for  tuberculosis 
was  climate, and  lots  of  people  still  have  an 
idea  that  climate  is  a  very  important  factor 
in  both  the  development  and  treatment  of 

tuberculosis.  As  a 
matter  of  fact  cli- 
mate has  no  influ- 
ence either  upon 
the  development 
or  the  treatment 
of  tuberculosis. 
Every  part  of  the 
world  has  had  tu- 
berculosis, and 
nearly  every  part 
of  the  world  has 
the  disease  now. 
The  disease  is  more 
virulent  in  warm 
climates  than  in 
cold.  There  are 
many  parts  of  the 
world  which  have 
been  at  one  time 
free  from  tubercu- 
losis but  which 
when  the  disease 
was  introduced  had 
it  as  abundantly  as 
any  other  place  and  sometimes  more  abun- 
dantly than  places  in  which  the  disease  had 
existed  for  a  long  time.  At  present  the  beau- 
tiful climates  of  California,  Arizona,  Oregon, 
Nevada,  Colorado,  and  some  of  the  south- 
ern states  have  the  highest  mortality  from 
tuberculosis  in  the  United  States.  In  a 
general  way  cold  climates  give  better 
protection  against  consumption  and  are  of 
more  use  in  the  treatment  of  the  disease 
than  warm  climates.  For  some  people 
high  altitudes  are  better  than  low  altitudes, 
but  for  some  consumptives  low  altitudes 
are  better  than  high  altitudes.     It  is  per- 


TUBERCULOSIS 


fectly  safe  to  disregard  the  question  of 
climate  entirely  in  dealing  with  tubercu- 
losis. 

Immunity  in  Tuberculosis. — There  is  a 
resistance  to  tuberculosis  in  human  beings 
which  is  called  immunity.  Most  people 
possess  it  in  some  degree,  but  some  to  a 
much  greater  degree  than  others.  Some 
races  possess  it  in  a  greater  degree  than 
others  and  some  families  possess  it  in  a 
greater  degree  than  others.  The  proba- 
bilities are  that  immunity  is  gradually 
developed  by  resistance  to  the  disease,  and 
that  for  this  reason  families  and  races  which 
have  been  fighting  the  disease  in  some  of 
their  members  for  long  periods  have  great 
resistance.  Children  born  of  tuberculous 
parents  are  apt  to  have  more  immunity 
than  the  parents  had,  and  when  the  disease 
has  been  in  a  family  for  three  or  four  gen- 
erations those  who  have  withstood  it  usu- 
ally have  a  very  great  immunity.  Of  the 
various  races  the  Jews  have  the  greatest 
immunity.  There  is  no  permanence  in 
immunity  against  tuberculosis  in  the  indi- 
vidual, the  family  or  in  the  race.  It  may 
be  lost  after  many  generations  in  the  family 
and  it  may  be  lost  in  the  individual  through 
depression  in  health.  Racial  immunity  is 
probably  the  most  durable  of  all. 

Contagiousness  of   Tuberculosis. — 

Tuberculosis  being  due  to  a  living  thing  is 
communicable  from  one  person  to  another 
and  cannot  be  gotten  except  by  communi- 
cation from  a  previous  case.  The  mode  of 
communication  'of  tuberculosis  is  by  con- 
tact and  the  disease  is  therefore  contagious. 
This  contact  need  not  be  direct  but  may  be 
indirect  through  a  place  or  thing.  A 
room  which  has  been  occupied  by  a  con- 
sumptive or  a  thing  which  has  been  used  by 
a  consumptive  may  accumulate  enough 
of  the  contagion  to  convey  the  disease  to 
another  person  who  subsequently  occupies 
such  a  room  or  uses  such  a  thing.  Now- 
adays the  words  contagious  and  infectious 
are  used  synonymously  although  formerly 
they  had  different  meanings.  The  old 
meaning  of  infection  was  conveyance  of  a 
disease  through  a  force  generated  outside 
of  the  person  giving  the  disease  to  the  per- 
son receiving  it.     Yellow  fever,  for  instance 


is  an  infectious  disease  according  to  the  old 
meaning  of  the  word  because  it  is  carried 
from  one  person  to  another  by  a  mosquito. 
The  contagion  of  tuberculosis  differs,  how- 
ever, from  the  contagion  of  such  diseases 
as  small  pox,  measles  and  scarlet  fever,  in 
that  .it  is  very  much  slower  and  requires 
longer  and  more  intimate  exposure.  You 
cannot  get  tuberculosis  by  a  single  contact 
with  a  person  who  has  the  disease;  you 
have  to  be  in  intimate  relationship  with 
such  a  person  for  a  considerable  time. 
You  can  get  small  pox,  measles  and  scarlet 
fever  by  a  single  momentary  contact  with 
persons  who  have  these  diseases.  The 
slowness  and  mildness  of  the  contagion  of 
tuberculosis  makes  the  prevention  of  the 
disease  very  easy  when  properly  under- 
stood. 

•  Mode  of  Contagion  of  Tuberculosis. — 
The  contagion  of  tuberculosis  is  always 
contained  in  broken  down  tissue  given  off 
by  the  person  who  has  the  disease.  Usu- 
ally this  tissue  is  thrown  off  in  the  form  of 
spit  but  sometimes  it  is  given  off  in  the 
form  of  matter.  When  a  consumptive 
coughs  he  may  spray  out  some  of  this 
matter  in  his  cough  and  he  may  do  the 
same  when  he  sneezes.  The  contagion  is 
not  in  the  breath,  however.  A  tubercu- 
lous subject  is  not  contagious  until  he  be- 
gins to  give  off  broken  down  matter,  because 
there  is  no  contagion  except  in  this  broken 
down  matter.  A  tuberculous  subject  who 
gives  off  broken  down  matter  can  make 
himself  non-contagious  by  properly  dis- 
posing of  that  matter  immediately  when 
it  is  given  off.  The  dangerousness  of  the 
consumptive,  therefore,  depends  upon  his 
habits.  If  he  spits  around  promiscuously 
or  if  he  spits  into  handkerchiefs  or  rags 
and  smears  himself  all  over  with  the  spu- 
tum he  is  a  dangerous  person  to  have 
around,  but  if  he  spits  into  a  sputum  cup 
which  he  holds  close  to  his  mouth,  and  if 
he  always  holds  a  paper  napkin  to  his 
mouth  when  he  coughs  and  sneezes  and 
puts  that  paper  napkin  into  a  bag  where  he 
cannot  smear  anything,  he  is  entirely  safe. 
How  Contagion  can  be  Prevented. — A 
tuberculous  subject  should  always  put 
every  particle  of  broken  down  tissue  into 

237 


lO 


TUBERCULOSIS. 


a  receptacle  immediately  when  it  is  given 
off.  If  he  expectorates  he  should  hold  a 
paper  sputum  cup  close  to  his  mouth  so 
that  he  does  not  distribute  any  of  the  mat- 
ter over  his  clothing;  after  expectorating 
he  should  carefully  wipe  his  mouth  with  a 
paper  napkin,  fold  up  the  paper  napkin  and 
put  it  in  a  paper  bag.  When  he  has  an 
accumulation  of  these  things  he  should 
burn  them.  He  should  always  keep  his 
hands  and  lips  clean  and  be  careful  to 
wash  his  hands  and  cleanse  his  lips  before 
eating.  If  by  any  chance  he  spills  any 
broken  down  tissue  on  his  bed  clothes  or  on 
the  floor  he  should  immediately  clean  the 
matter  up.  If  the  clothes  are  of  a  charac- 
ter that  they  can  be  boiled  they  should  be 
boiled  at  once.  Absolute  cleanliness  is  the 
safest  protection  against  the  spread  of 
tuberculosis. 

Consumption  a  House  Disease. — Con- 
sumption has  been  called  a  house  disease 
because  it  is  in  the  house  or  rather  in  an 
enclosure  of  some  kind  that  the  disease  is 
usually  conveyed  from  one  person  to  an- 
other. It  is  questionable  whether  tuber- 
culosis can  be  contracted  out  of  doors. 
The  enclosure  in  which  the  disease  is  most 
frequently  contracted  is  the  home,  because 
it  is  in  the  home  where  the  greatest  inti- 
macy exists  and  where  a  consumptive 
spends  most  of  his  time.  A  house  will 
harbor  the  contagion  of  tuberculosis  a 
varying  length  of  time  accordingly  as  it  is 
sanitary  or  unsanitary,  light  or  dark,  dry 
or  damp.  The  tubercle  bacillus  does  not 
live  long  in  the  bright  light  and  fresh  air 
but  may  live  a  very  long  time  in  a  dark 
and  dingy  room.  Damp,  badly  drained 
houses  are  particularly  conducive  to  the 
development  of  tuberculosis.  Next  to  the 
house  the  workshop  undoubtedly  is  the 
place  in  which  the  disease  is  most  fre- 
quently conveyed  from  the  sick  to  the  well. 
Working  side  by  side,  day  in  and  day  out, 
with  a  consumptive  who  expectorates 
carelessly  in  the  shop  is  exceedingly  dan- 
gerous. If  the  consumptive  can  be  in- 
duced to  properly  care  for  his  sputum  there 
is  no  danger  whatever.  Stores  and  offices 
also  are  the  means  of  spreading  the  disease. 
In  such  places  the  danger  is  greatest  to 

238 


those  who  are  next  to  the  consumptive 
and  seldom  extends  much  beyond  this 
immediate  environment.  All  this  danger 
can  be  done  away  with  by  proper  disposal 
of  the  broken  down  tissue. 

Hotels  and  Boarding  Houses  as  Means 
of  Spreading  Tuberculosis. — Hotels  and 
boarding  houses  sometim_es  become  the 
media  of  spreading  tuberculosis,  although 
perhaps  not  as  often  as  people  think.  The 
occupancy  of  a  room  by  a  consumptive  for 
a  single  night  or  for  two  or  three  nights 
would  ordinarily  not  contaminate  the 
room  sufficiently  to  make  it  possible  for 
a  subsequent  occupant  to  get  the  disease. 
Neither  would  the  occupancy  of  a  badly 
infected  room  for  a  single  night  by  a 
healthy  person  likely  convey  the  disease. 
It  really  takes  some  time  to  implant  tuber- 
culosis, and  one  would  have  to  occupy  a 
room  of  this  kind  for  a  good  many  days 
before  he  could  get  an  implantation. 
Something  depends  upon  the  condition  of 
one's  health.  If  one  is  much  depressed  he 
will  get  an  implantation  much  easier  than 
when  he  is  in  perfect  condition. 

Servants  and  Employees  as  Spreaders 
of  Tuberculosis. — Servants  and  employees 
sometimes  give  tuberculosis  to  their  em- 
ployers or  to  their  fellow  employees.  A 
consumptive  cook,  for  instance,  could  very 
easily  infect  a  whole  family.  A  consump- 
tive chamber-maid  or  dining-room  girl 
might  likewise  give  the  disease  to  those 
upon  whom  she  waits.  There  is  all  the 
more  danger  from  sources  of  this  kind 
because  the  person  who  has  the  disease  is 
apt  to  hide  it.  Employers  should  insist 
that  servants  and  employees  of  every  kind 
shall  use  the  proper  receptacles  for  expec- 
torated matter  when  they  cough  and  expec- 
torate. 

Contracting  Tuberculosis  in  the  School 
Room. — Much  fear  has  been  expressed  by 
some  of  the  danger  of  contracting  tuber- 
culosis in  the  schoolroom.  A  consump- 
tive teacher  may  give  the  disease  to  his 
pupils,  and  a  consumptive  pupil  may  give 
it  to  his  fellow  pupils,  but  the  danger  from 
this  sotirce  is  not  great  and  can  easily  be 
obviated  by  proper  cleanliness  and  proper 
disposal  of  the  sputum.     There  is  no  neces- 


TUBERCULOSIS 


II 


sity  for  excluding  consumptive  teachers 
from  the  schoolroom  provided  they  dispose 
of  their  sputum  according  to  approved 
methods.  The  same  is  true  of  children. 
Besides  children  rarely  have  tuberculosis 
in  a  contagious  form. 

Contracting  Tuberculosis  in  Churches 
and  Public  Places. — Churches  and  public 
places  may  become  infected  with  the  con- 
tagion of  tuberculosis,  but  contagion  in 
such  places  rarely  becomes  intense  enough 
to  give  the  disease  to  anyone.  Most  people 
are  in  places  of  this  kind  for  too  short  a 
time  to  get  an  implantation.  Neverthe- 
less all  public  meeting  places  should  be  kept 
clean  and  free  from  dust.  Carpets  should 
not  be  used  in  these  places,  and  the  floors 
should  be  kept  in  such  condition  that  they 
can  easily  be  cleansed.  The  people  who 
are  most  exposed  to  tuberculosis  in  churches 
and  halls  are  the  janitors  and  cleaners. 
By  scrubbing  the  floors  instead  of  sweeping 
them  there  would  be  much  less  danger  of 
these   contracting   the   disease. 

Contracting  Tuberculosis  in  Public  Con- 
veyances.— There  is  really  very  little  dan- 
ger of  contracting  tuberculosis  in  public 
conveyances  although  some  people  have 
a  great  fear  of  getting  the  disease  in  this 
way.  Here  again,  as  in  the  hotel,  the  time 
during  which  both  the  consumptive  and 
the  well  person  occupy  the  conveyance  is 
too  short  to  implant  the  disease.  The 
sleeping  berths  on  railroads  over  which  a 
great  many  consumptives  travel  may 
become  dangerous  to  people  who  are  greatly 
predisposed  to  the  disease  but  even  here 
the  danger  is  not  great. 

Getting  Tuberculosis  on  the  Street. — 
As  has  already  been  intimated  there  is 
practically  no  danger  of  getting  tubercu- 
losis on  the  street.  Rain,  sunshine  and 
fresh  air  very  quickly  devitalize  the  tuber- 
culous matter  which  is  thrown  on  the  street. 
Besides  one  could  scarcel}^  take  in  enough 
of  this  matter  whilst  passing  over  a  spot 
on  which  someone  has  expectorated,  to  get 
an  implantation.  Street  cleaners  and 
policemen  who  are  on  the  street  all  the 
time  very  rarely  have  tuberculosis. 

Relationship  between  Human  and 
Bovine    Tuberculosis. — There   has    been  a 


great  deal  of  discussion  of  late  on  the  rela- 
tionship between  human  and  animal  tuber- 
culosis. There  is  a  wide  difference  of 
opinion  as  to  the  danger  of  human  beings 
contracting  the  disease  from  animals. 
That  animal  and  human  tuberculosis  are 
one  and  the  same  disease  no  one  denies. 
It  is  probable,  however,  that  the  tubercle 
bacillus  which  has  been  accustomed  to 
grow  on  animal  tissue  will  not  readily 
grow  on  human  tissue,  and  that  the  bacillus 
which  has  been  accustomed  to  grow  on 
human  tissue  will  not  readily  grow  on  ani- 
mal tissue.  The  preponderating  evidence 
seems  to  be  in  favor  of  the  view  that  hu- 
man beings  practically  never  get  tubercu- 
losis from  animals.  Until  the  subject  is 
cleared  up,  however,  one  should  not  drink 
the  milk  of  tuberculous  cows  in  which  the 
disease  is  far  advanced  and  particularly 
in  which  the  udder  is  involved.  Whatever 
little  danger  there  may  be  of  getting  tuber- 
culosis from  the  meat  of  tuberculous  ani- 
mals is  obviated  by  cooking.  The  danger 
which  may  exist  of  taking  the  disease 
through  milk  can  also  be  obviated  by  pas- 
teurizing the  milk. 

How  the  Tubercle  Bacillus  gets  into 
the  System. — In  this  connection  it  may  be 
worth  while  considering  how  the  tubercle 
bacillus  gets  into  the  system.  It  may  get 
in  by  the  skin,  by  the  stomach  and  by  the 
lungs.  It  rarely  gets  in  by  the  skin, 
probably  most  frequently  by  the  lungs  and 
some  times  by  the  stomach.  Whatever 
way  it  gets  in,  it  first  goes  into  the  lymphat- 
ic glands  or  is  carried  into  the  circulation 
to  be  distributed  throughout  the  body. 
By  reason  of  its  getting  into  the  lymphatic 
system,  it  may  lie  dormant  in  the  body  for 
a  long  time  before  it  develops  into  a  dis- 
ease. 

Duration  of  Tuberculosis. — Tubercu- 
losis is  a  long-drawn-out,  tedious  disease 
under  ordinary  circumstances.  It  is  a 
long  time  before  it  shows  itself  after  implan- 
tation and  frequently  it  develops  even  to 
the  stage  of  breaking  down  without  mani- 
festing many  symptoms.  Sometimes 
people  have  it  for  a  lifetim.e  without 
recognizing  it.  Some  of  the  first  symptoms 
are  a  sense  of  fatigue,  indigestion,  loss  of 

239 


12 


TUBERCULOSIS 


appetite,  loss  of  weight,  slight  feverish- 
ness  and  occasionally  a  little  cough.  At 
intervals  the  cough  becomes  severe  and 
perhaps  there  is  expectoration  but  this  is 
usually  ascribed  to  a  cold.  Between 
these  attacks  the  health  is  pretty  good  and 
the  individual  is  deceived.  As  each  little 
process  matures  and  some  of  the  broken 
down  matter  is  thrown  off  there  is  a  rein- 
fection and  each  subsequent  attack  is  a 
little  more  severe  than  the  preceding  one. 
Finally  the  individual  discovers  that  his 
health  is  undermined 
and  that  he  is  in  a  bad 
way.  The  average  dura- 
tion of  tuberculosis  from 
the  time  of  implantation 
to  the  fatal  termination, 
when  it  terminates 
fatally,  is  about  ten 
years.  The  severe  symp- 
toms often  last  from  six 
months  to  two  years. 
The  dying  period  is  usu- 
ally about  two  months. 
Tuberculosis  a  Cur- 
able Disease. — Tubercu- 
losis is  a  curable  disease. 
This  has  been  proved 
beyond  doubt.  Up  until 
recently  the  disease  was 
looked  upon  as  incurable 
and  many  people  still 
liave  this  false  impres- 
sion. This  erroneous  idea 
came  about  because  in 
the  past  the  disease  was 
not  recognized  until  it 
reached  its  terminal 
stage.  At  all  times  many 
cases  got  well  spontaneously,  and  now  that 
we  fully  understand  the  disease  we  find  that 
we  can  cure  practically  all  cases  if  we  get 
them  early  enough.  The  tendency  to  recover 
is  really  very  much  greater  than  the  ten- 
dency to  a  fatal  termination,  and  all  that 
is  necessary  is  to  place  the  individual  who 
has  received  an  implantation  under  proper 
conditions,  give  him  rest  and  feed  him 
properly  and  he  will  recover.  Under 
modern  methods  even  fairly  advanced 
cases  get  well  and  occasionally  very  ad- 
240 


Gas  Disinfector 


vanced  cases.  It  is  only  after  the  individ- 
ual becomes  extremely  emaciated  and 
the  disease  has  invaded  almost  every  organ 
of  the  body  that  the  case  becomes  abso- 
lutely hopeless. 

Remedies  for  Tuberculosis. — There  is 
no  specific  remedy  for  tuberculosis  but 
there  are  a  great  many  remedies  which 
when  skilfully  used  at  the  proper  time  help 
nature  win  the  victory.  The  essential 
elements  in  the  treatment  of  the  disease 
are  rest,  food,  air  and  proper  exercise. 
Drugs  are  to  be  used  only  to  help  restore 
organs  of  the  body  to  their  physiological 
action  when  they  are  not  doing  their  full 
duty.  Drug-taking  may  really  be  an 
impediment  to  recovery.  Food  is  the 
most  important  element  of  all.  As  the 
disease  wastes  the  body  so  the  treatment 
must  not  only  restore  what  has  been  lost 
but  lay  up  a  supply  of  nutrition  over  and 
above  what  is  needed. 

Food  in  the  Treatment  of  Tuberculosis. 
— As  the  digestive  organs  and  all  those  parts 
of  the  body  which  have  to  do  with  nutrition 
have  been  weakened  by  the  disease  it  is 
important  to  select  food  which  is  easily 
digested  and  assimilated  and  to  avoid  food 
which  produces  indigestion  or  clogs  up  the 
system.  The  best  food  for  the  treatment 
of  tuberculosis  is  milk  and  the  next  best 
eggs.  A  good  plan  is  to  take  three  quarts 
of  milk  and  six  raw  eggs  a  day  and  one  meal 
of  solid  food.  The  mistake  is  often  made 
of  trying  to  take  a  large  amount  of  milk 
and  eggs  and  three  meals  a  day.  This 
should  not  be  done  because  the  digestive 
system  gets  overburdened  and  the  change 
of  food  into  tissue  is  incomplete  by  reason 
of  the  fatigue  of  the  organs.  For  the  solid 
meal  beef  steak,  roast  beef,  roast  mutton  or 
mutton  chops,  fresh  vegetables  and  fresh 
fruit  should  be  taken.  This  meal  should 
be  eaten  carefully  and  at  least  an  hour 
should  be  devoted  to  it.  The  solid  meal 
may  be  taken  in  the  middle  of  the  day  or 
in  the  evening.  Pastry  and  starchy  food 
which  has  been  fried  in  grease  should  under 
no  circumstances  be  used  by  a  tuberculous 
subject. 

Fresh  Air  in  the  Treatment  of  Tubercu- 
losis.— The  taking  of  food  means  very  little 


TUBERCULOSIt 


13 


unless  the  patient  remains  in  the  open  air 
or  at  least  gets  enough  fresh  air  to  properly 
oxidize  the  food.  Air  is  as  important  for 
nutrition  as  food  and  should  really  be 
looked  upon  as  part  of  the  food.  So  far 
as  possible  air  should  never  be  rebreathed. 
Air  which  has  once  been  breathed  is 
deprived  of  some  of  its  oxygen  and  what  is 
still  more  objectionable  is  loaded  with 
some  of  the  poisons  given  off  by  the  body. 
A  tuberculous  subject  should  sit  in  the 
open  air  all  day  while  under  treatment  and 
should  sleep  in  a  room  with  the  windows 
open  on  two  sides  unless  he  can  do  what  is 
better  still,  sleep  out  of  doors.  Even  well 
people  should  keep  their  bedroom  windows 
open  because  what  will  cure  will  also  help 
to  keep  well.  There  should  be  no  shades  or 
blinds  on  the  windows  and  houses  are  bet- 
ter without  shutters.  Sun  and  air  should 
be  allowed  free  access  to  every  sleeping 
room.  There  need  be  no  fear  of  draughts. 
One  can  sit  or  sleep  in  a  draught  provided 
he  is  properly  clad  or  covered. 

Rest  and  Exercise  in  the  Treatment  of 
Tuberculosis. — Rest  and  properly  graded 
exercise  are  important  factors  in  the  treat- 
ment of  tuberculosis.  So  long  as  a  tuber- 
culous patient  is  below  normal  weight  and 
is  running  some  temperature  he  is  much 
safer  at  rest,  even  complete  rest  in  bed, 
than  taking  exercise.  During  the  fever 
stage  of  his  disease  absolute  rest  in  bed  is 
really  necessary.  After  he  gets  better  and 
no  longer  runs  a  temperature,  exercise  if 
taken  within  proper  limits  is  of  value,  and 
under  proper  direction  can  be  made  ser- 
viceable to  recovery.  When  a  patient  gets 
up  to  full  weight  he  should  have  graded 
exercise  and  should  gradually  harden 
himself  to  considerable  endurance.  Deep 
breathing  exercise  should  never  be  taken 
while  the  disease  is  active  and  after  it  is 
considerably  advanced.  There  is  danger 
of  tearing  loose  adhesions  by  such  exercise 
and  again  setting  up  the  disease. 

Slowness  of  Recovery  from  Tuberculo- 
sis.— With  the  very  best  treatment  recov- 
ery from  tuberculosis  is  a  very  slow  process. 
Restoration  of  physical  health  comes  much 
quicker  than  complete  recovery  from  the 
disease.     This    often    leads    to    mistakes 


because  people  who  look  well  and  feel  well 
cannot  convince  themselves  that  they  are 
not  well,  and  sometimes  being  thus  misled 
do  things  which  lead  to  fatal  relapses. 
The  time  which  it  takes  for  recovery 
depends  upon  the  advancement  of  the 
disease,  the  amount  of  tissue  involved  and 
the  amount  of  tissue  destroyed.  When  a 
patient  comes  under  treatment  very  early 
he  may  recover  in  six  months  and  when  he 
comes  under  treatment  very,  late  if  he 
recovers  at  all  it  may  take  him  from  six 
to  ten  years.  No  time  can  really  be  fixed 
for  recovery  and  every  case  in  this  matter 
must  be  a  law  to  itself.  After  a  great  deal 
of  tissue  ha"s  been  destroyed  recovery 
never  again  becomes  complete  in  the  sense 
that  the  person  is  as  well  as  he  was  before 
he  took  sick.  Such  persons,  no  matter 
how  well  they  get,  should  always  be  con- 
tent with  a  half  loaf.  Even  those  who 
have  not  had  the  disease  very  far  advanced 
will  always  have  to  live  pretty  much  the 
same  life  which  led  to  their  recovery  in 
order  to  stay  well. 

Preventability  of  Tuberculosis. — The 
most  consoling  feature  of  the  modern 
teachings  about  tuberculosis  is  that  the 
disease  is  preventable  and  can  be  wiped 
out.  What  has  life  and  depends  upon 
reproduction  can  be  exterminated.  The 
chief  difficulty  in  the  way  of  exterminating 
tuberculosis  is  its  universal  prevalence. 
Prevention,  however,  is  easy  and  when 
every  one  comes  to  know  just  what  to  do 
to  prevent  the  disease,  the  extermination 
of  it  will  be  easily  accomplished. 

The  Consumptive  Protects  Himself  by 
Protecting  Others. — Every  consumptive 
can  avoid  giving  the  disease  to  others. 
If  he  knows  what  to  do  and  is  willing  to  do 
it  he  can  make  himself  absolutely  non- 
contagious and  can  prevent  any  of  his 
bacilli  getting  into  another  person.  Now- 
adays with  the  crusade  against  tubercu- 
losis so  active  it  is  easy  to  find  out  just 
what  to  do,  and  even  when  one  cannot  get 
the  things  that  are  necessary  for  accom- 
plishing the  prevention  of  the  disease  with 
his  own  means,  he  can  usually  get  them  for 
nothing  from  some  institution  which  is 
devoting    itself    tO    the    crusade    against 

241 


14 


TUBERCULOSIS 


tuberculosis.  Sometimes  people  are 
ashamed  to  do  what  is  necessary  to  prevent 
the  spread  of  the  disease  for  fear  of  criti- 
cism and  because  of  the  prejudice  against 
consumptives.  There  is  this  to  be  said, 
however,  that  no  consumptive  can  get  well 
who  does  not  do  all  that  is  necessary  for 
the  protection  of  others.  The  practices 
which  will  prevent  the  disease  from  being 
given  to  others  will  also  prevent  the  indi- 
vidual from  re-infecting  himself,  and  unless 
precautions  are  taken  against  re-infec- 
tion recovery  cannot  take  place. 


The  Ulrich  Sanatory  Tent 


The  Government  in  the  Prevention  of 
Tuberculosis. — The  government  is  alive  to 
the  importance  of  stamping  out  tubercu- 
losis and  is  everywhere  cooperating. 
Boards  of  Health  are  ready  to  disinfect 
houses  without  cost  to  the  individual  and 
distribute  literature  telling  people  what  to 
do.  Whenever  a  house  has  been  occupied 
by  a  consumptive,  even  though  he  has  been 
cleanly  and  has  practiced  measures  for  the 
prevention  of  the  disease,  it  is  worth  while 
disinfecting  it  when  it  is  vacated  by 
removal  or  death.     In  fact  it  would  not  be 

242 


bad  practice  for  consumptives  to  have  the 
rooms  which  they  occupy  disinfected  from 
time  to  time,  both  for  their  own  protection 
against  re-infection  and  for  the  protection 
of  those  who  are  near  and  dear  to  them. 
Humane  Isolation  of  Advanced  Con- 
sumptives.— So  far  as  possible  advanced 
consumptives  should  be  humanely  isolated 
in  hospitals  which  are  properly  equipped 
for  taking  care  of  them.  It  is  exceedingly 
difficult  and  very  expensive  to  so  guard 
and  manage  a  consumptive  in  the  home 
during  the  last  few  months  of  life  as  to 
prevent  him  from  in- 
fecting those  around 
him  and  contaminating 
the  room  in  which  he 
lives.  In  a  hospital  this 
can  be  done  because 
there  are  nurses  on  guard 
all  the  time  and  linens 
can  be  changed  as  often 
as  soiled.  Humane  iso- 
lation of  the  dying  cases 
and  of  other  cases  dur- 
ing the  acute  process  of 
the  disease  is  really  the 
most  valuable  means  at 
our  command  for  stamp- 
ing out  the  disease.  It 
should  be  practiced 
everywhere  and  by 
everyone  as  far  as 
possible. 

Groundless  Fear  of 
Consumption. — The  ner- 
vous and  timid  nowa- 
days are  so  much  afraid 
of  getting  consumption  that  they 
treat  the  poor  consumptive  inhumanely. 
There  is  no  ground  for  such  fear  and 
timidity.  All  that  is  necessary  to  avoid 
getting  consumption  is  to  use  common 
sense,  to  be  cleanly  oneself  and  to  insist 
upon  cleanliness  in  all  those  around  and 
about  one.  We  can  safely  be  in  contact 
with  a  consumptive  provided  he  takes  the 
proper  precautions,  and  we  ourselves  should 
insist  upon  every  consumptive  with  whom 
we  come  in  contact  doing  those  things 
which  are  necessary  to  protect  us  against 
contracting  the  disease. 


A  SIMPLE 
SANATORY  TENT 

-         DR.  H.  ULRICH.  MINNEAPOLIS. 


TUBERCULOSIS 


15 


Should  Consumptives  Marry? — Should 
consumptives  marry?  This  is  a  question 
which  is  often  asked  and  the  enactment  of 
a  law  prohibiting  marriage  has  even  been 
agitated.  Consumption  is  not  hereditary; 
on  the  contrary  immunity  may  be  inherited 
from  a  consumptive  parent.  There  can 
therefore  be  no  reason  for  prohibiting 
marriage  for  the  protection  of  the  offspring. 
Consumptives  who  still  have  the  disease  in 
an  active  form  or  who  have  been  very 
seriously  damaged  by  it  should  not  marry 
for  their  own  good.  The  burdens  and 
responsibilities  which  come  with  married 
life  are  prejudicial  to  them  and  may  influ- 
ence the  disease  towards  a  fatal  termination. 
People  who  have  recovered,  however,  and 
in  whom  the  disease  is  entirely  dormant 
can  safely  marry. 


Should  the  Consumptive  Mother  Suckle 
her  Child? — Another  matter  which  bears 
somewhat  on  this  question  is  whether  a 
consumptive  mother  should  suckle  her 
child.  As  a  rule  she  may  do  so  for  some 
months  at  least.  But  if  she  is  in  the  active 
stage  of  the  disease  she  ought  not  to  do  so. 
It  is  much  safer  to  remove  the  child  from 
the  parent  than  to  have  it  in  contact  with 
her  and  this  should  always  be  done  when  it 
is  possible  to  do  so.  Where  the  mother 
has  to  feed  the  infant  it  is  safer  to  suckle 
it  than  to  feed  it  artificially.  During  the 
time  of  suckling  the  mother  should  take 
a  very  large  quantity  of  milk,  even  more 
than  she  takes  ordinarily.  After  the  child 
is  strong  enough  to  thrive  on  cow's  milk 
it  should  be  taken  from  the  breast,  but  its 
food  should  not  be  prepared  by  the  mother. 


243 


By  special  permission  of  Owen  Zimmerman,  Photographer 

THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  FIRST-BORN. 

What  is  so  attractive  as  a  young  and  beautiful  mother  with  her  babe  ? 
"A  mother  is  a  mother  still,  the  holiest  thing  alive." 


BOOK  v.— PART  II. 

THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 

The  reputation  of  Dr.  Hartshorne,  the  author  of  this  department,  ranks 
high  among  those  of  our  general  physicians,  and  these  pages  from  his  pen  will 
be  endorsed  by  every  good  doctor  as  safe  and  practical  to  follow.  This  book 
tells  how  to  detect  disease  and  apply  the  best  remedy  for  it.  It  gives  practical 
directions  for  taking  the  principal  medicines,  how  to  nurse  and  care  for  the 
sick,  what  to  do  in  case  of  accidents  or  poisoning,  and  gives  valuable  advice 
on  the  laws  of  health,  the  prevention  of  disease,  food  for  the  sick,  and  various 
kinds  of  medical  treatment.  This  book  will  be  of  use  frequently  and  there 
will  come  times  when  it  may  mean  the  saving  of  a  life.  It  should  be  close  at 
hand  where  it  can  be  referred  to  at  a  moment's  notice. 


The  Family  Doctor 

,AUSES,  NATURE  AND  SIGNS  OF  DISEASE— CLASSIFICATION  OF  DISEASES 
—THE  BEST  REMEDIES— RELIEVING  PAIN— PRINCIPAL  MEDICINES 
—NURSING  AND  CARE  OF  THE  SICK 

—by- 
Henry  Hartshorne,  M.D. 


WHAT  IS  DISEASE 


It  was  a  rather  strange  idea  of  a  recent 
distinguished  writer  upon  Hygiene,  that  per- 
haps, if  we  understood  perfectly  all  the  laws 
of  health,  and  obeyed  them  all,  life  might 
be  indefinitely  prolonged.  Nature  around 
us  pronounces  otherwise.  Every  tree, 
though  it  live  a  thousand  years,  withers, 
root  and  branch,  at  last.  All  the  animals, 
from  the  long-lived  elephant  and  tortoise 
down  to  the  ephemeral  insect  floating  on  the 
breeze,  have  set  terms  of  life.  On  this 
globe  of  ours,  whatever  organism  is  born, 
dies.  Man's  body  furnishes  no  exception; 
his  spirit,  only,  is  immortal. 

The  marvel  is,  that  so  delicate  a  mechan- 
ism as  the  human  body  can  survive  for  a 
single  year,  amongst  the  various  perils  that 
surround  it.  Yet  we  live  on,  some  of  us, 
accidents  apart,  for  a  good  while.  Most 
persons  fail  to  reach  advanced  age,  because 
of  disease.     What  is  disease  ? 

It  is  something  either  being  or  acting 
wrong  i7i  the  body.  There  may  be  as  many 
(cinds  of  disorder,  or  disease,  at  least,  as 
there  are  organs  of  the  body.  More  than 
that  there  really  are,  however;  because  com- 
plications of  diseases  occur,  and  each  organ, 
or  the  general  system ,  may  be  out  of  sorts 
in  a  large  number  of  diflferent  ways. 


First,  it  will  be  well  for  us  to  consider 
what  makes  the  body,  or  parts  of  it,  get  out 
of  order. 

Causes  of  Disease. 

These  may  be  stated  together,  thus  :  as 
causes  which  are 

Hereditary :  examples  (though  not  always 
inherited),  consumption,  gout,  epilepsy, 
cancer. 

Functional :  that  is,  depending  upon  the 
action,  either  too  great  or  too  little,  of  one 
or  more  of  the  organs,  or  of  the  body  gener- 
ally. Examples :  over-exertion,  over-ex- 
citement, loss  of  sleep  ;  or,  on  the  other 
hand,  want  of  exercise. 

Mechanical :  as  wounds  or  injuries  of 
various  kinds,  tight-lacing,  etc. 

Conditional :  as  extremes  of  heat  or  cold , 
sudden  changes  of  temperature,  dampness 
of  dwellings. 

Digestive :  as  poisoning,  unwholesome 
food,  intemperance,  abuse  of  medicine ;  and, 
on  the  other  hand,  starvation. 

Obstructive:  as  neglect  of  the  bowels, 
uncleanliness  of  the  skin,  ill  ventilation. 

Contagious :  as  small-pox,  itch,  hydro- 
phobia. 

Atmospheric :  as  autumnal  fevers,  yeUow 
fever,  cholera. 


247 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


Hereditary  Disease. 

We  often  see  consumption  affecting  sev- 
eral members  of  the  same  family  through 
several  generations.  The  same  is  true  of 
insanity.  Gout  is  many  times  transmitted 
from  father  to  son,  but  seldom  to  a  third 
generation.  Epilepsy,  also,  does  not  often 
extend  to  grandchildren,  nor  does  cancer. 
Each  of  these  diseases  may  come  without  in- 
heritance. Then,  we  can  sometimes,  though 
not  always,  find  at  least  a  partial  explanation 
of  their  origin  otherwise. 

Not  all  (if  there  be  several)  children  in 
a  family  are-  likely  to  have  the  inheritable 
disease.  Perhaps  all  may  escape  it ;  now 
and  then  it  comes  again  in  //^^-/r  children , 
having  skipped  a  whole  generation. 

Children  are  not  born  with  transmitted 
diseases  ;  except  syphilis,  among  those  of 
real  constitutional  inheritance,  and  a  few  of 
the  contagiojis  affections.  They  are  com- 
monly affected  with  them  about  the  time  of 
life  when  their  parents  were  so.  Thus 
scrofulous  disorders  of  the  eyes,  ears,  skin, 
glands,  and  bones,  are  apt  to  show  them- 
selves in  childhood ;  co7isumption  of  the 
mngs,  in  youth  or  early  maturity  ;  gout  near 
middle  age  ;  apoplexy,  2ind  disease  of  the  heart, 
from  fifty  to  seventy  years  ;  early  deafness,  or 
blindness,  at  various  periods  in  different 
families. 

Sometimes  the  inherited  taint  is  modified 
in  transmission.  Thus  the  children  of  a 
gouty  person  may  have,  not  regular  gout, 
but  neuralgia  ;  and  the  offspring  of  one  who 
is  insane  may  have  inflammation  of  the  brain , 
or  convulsions,  etc.  Children  of  intemper- 
ate parents  are  very  likely  to  have  some  im- 
pairment of  their  nervous  system ,  and  often 
die  in  infancy. 

Besides  these  special  transmissions  of 
tendencies  to  disease,  there  is  a  gradually 
degenerating  influence  in  families,  and  even 
whole  populations,  from  unhealthy  living. 
It  is  most  observed  in  large  cities. 

Functional  Causation. 

Over-exertion  may  produce  exhaustion, 
which,  in  a  person  before  feeble,  may  end 
in  death.  Or,  short  of  this,  there  may  be 
brought  on  a  state  of  weakness  slow  to  be 
recovered  from.     In  such  a  state,  moreover. 


the  body  is  less  capable  of  resisting  all 
causes  of  disease  than  when  in  full  vigor. 

Excessive  ejforts  may,  at  the  time,  strain 
muscles,  or  even  burst  the  heart,  or  the 
great  main  artery,  the  aorta. 

Over-excitement  of  the  brain  is,  in  many 
cases,  when  it  lasts  but  for  a  short  time, 
followed  simply  by  exhaustion  and  gradual 
return,  through  repose,  to  ordin?,ry  health. 
But  long-continued  excessive  mental  excite- 
ment may  produce  either  infla^nmation  of  the 
brain,  insanity,  or  prolonged  brain-exhaus- 
tion .  Loss  of  sleep,  however  induced,  endan- 
gers such  effects.  Hardly  any  one  can  sur- 
vive deprivation  of  sleep  for  so  long  as  two 
weeks  at  a  time  ;  a  single  week  would  finish 
most  peoples'  lives. 

Mechanical  Injuries. 

Broken  limbs,  displaced  joints,  and 
wounds,  are  often  causes  of  disease.  Tight- 
lacing  is  also  a  mechanical  cause  of  inter- 
ruption to  the  right  action  of  the  lungs  and 
heart,  crowding  these  and  other  organs  into 
too  small  a  space.  Position  of  the  body  acts 
mechanically,  sometimes,  in  promoting  cer- 
tain maladies.  Whoever  is  predisposed  to 
apoplexy,  is  especially  liable  to  have  an 
attack  while  stooping,  or  lying  with  the 
head  low. 

Conditional  Causes. 

By  these  we  mean  high  heat,  great  cold, 
dampness,  sudden  changes  and  partial  ex- 
posures of  the  body  to  either  extreme,  or 
electrical  influences ;  these  last  being  very 
little  understood. 

Sunstroke  is  a  familiar  accident  in  warm 
climates.  Cold- stroke  is  less  common,  but  1 
have  known  it  to  be  almost  as  sudden  as  the 
opposite.  Continued  heat  predisposes  to  dis- 
orders of  the  liver,  stomach  and  bowels.  Cold, 
with  dampness,  promotes  affections  of  the 
lungs  and  other  organs  within  the  chest. 

Catchi7tg  cold :  what  is  it  ?  For  example; 
one  comes  in  warm  from  exercise  on  a  spring 
or  autumn  day,  takes  off  his  coat,  and  sits 
down  near  a  window  to  ' '  cool  off. ' '  His 
skin  is  relaxed  and  moist  with  perspiration, 
whose  evaporation ,  under  the  window-breeze , 
goes  on  rapidly.  Suppose  the  breeze  to  blow 
on  his  back,  between  his  shoulders.  That 
part  is  cooled  more  than  the  rest  of  his 


^8 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


body.  Its  blood-vessels  and  skin-pores  con- 
tract under  the  cooling  process,  detaining 
the  perspiration  and  driving  the  blood  in- 
ward from  the  surface.  Some  of  the  waste 
matter  which  the  skin  would  have  thrown 
off  by  sweating,  but  for  this  chilling,  is  now 
kept  in  the  blood. 

The  result  may  be  made  more  serious 
than  a  mere  cold.  If  there  be  a  weak  or 
susceptible  part  within  the  chest  (bronchial 
tubes,  lungs,  pleura,  or  heart)  it  suffers 
from  overloading  with  blood  and  waste 
material ;  and  we  have  a  bronchitis,  a  pneu- 
vionia,  a  pleurisy,  or  an  ijifJammaiion  of  the 
heart.  Among  these,  the  first  is  the  most 
frequent,  and  the  last  the  least  so  ;  but  even 
it  does  sometimes  happen,  especially  in  a 
rheumatic  person. 

Digestive  Morbid  Causes. 

Excess  of  food  may  cause  indigestion  at 
the  time;  and,  if  often  repeated,  habitual 
indigestion — called  dyspepsia.  A  less  amount 
of  excess  or  superfluity  may  bring  on  an 
overfulness  of  rich  blood  in  the  system — 
plethora.  Deficiency  of  food  weakens,  and  so 
promotes  attacks  of  many  disorders  ;  varying 
according    to    constitution    and    exposure. 

Indigestible  articles  may  produce  com- 
mon indigestio7i,  with  windy  pain  in  the 
stomach,  nausea,  etc.  ;  or  cholera  morbiis, 
which  is  much  more  severe ;  occasionally 
dangerous. 

Obstructive  Causes. 

Everything  that  interferes  with  the  clear- 
ing out  from  the  body  of  all  waste  and  dead 
material,  by  the  excretions,  tends  to  injure 
health.  Breathing  foul  air,  makes  the  blood 
impure,  and  promotes  diseases  of  various 
kinds.  Uncleanliness  of  the  skin  acts  in 
the  same  way  to  a  less  certain  and  serious 
degree.  Neglect  of  the  bowels  leads  to  cos- 
tiveness,  headache,  and  dyspepsia  ;  now  and 
then  it  brings  on  hernia  (rupture)  which 
may  endanger  life,  or  an  obstruction  of  the 
bowels  within  the  abdomen,  from  which  not 
many  who  suffer  it  recover. 

Contagion. 

This  is,  strictly  defined,  conveyance  of 
disease  by  touch  or  contact.  But  some 
(not  all)   disorders,    which   may   be   trans- 


mitted by  actual  touch,  pass  also  to  a  short 
distance  through  the  air.  This  is  true  of 
typhus,  sraall-pox,  chicken-pox,  measles, 
scarlet  fever,  mumps,  and  whooping-cough, 
certainly ;  perhaps,  in  rare  instances,  of 
diphtheria.  Hydrophobia,  syphilis,  and 
gonorrhoea  are  conveyed  only  by  contact 
and  inoculation  ;  that  is,  introduction  of  the 
virus  of  the  disease  into  the  blood,  or,  at 
least,  under  the  skin.  These  diseases,  are, 
in  fact,  the  common  diseases  that  are  cer- 
tainly contagious. 

Infection :  Atmospheric  Causation. 

Certain  places,  at  particular  times,  are 
infected  with  maladies  which  attack  a  greater 
or  less  number  of  those  living  or  visiting 
there.  Some  of  these  diseases  are  said  to  be 
endemic  ;  that  is,  they  are  limited  to  quite 
clearly  defined  places.  Thus,  ague  or  ma- 
larial fever  and  autumnal  bilious  or  remit- 
tent fever  are  found  to  prevail  in  some 
neighborhoods  every  fall  and  spring ;  while 
other  places,  perhaps  not  more  than  a  mile 
distant,  are  clear  of  them.  Yellow  fever  is 
an  endemic  disease  of  the  vicinity  of  the  sea- 
coast  of  Cuba,  while  the  higher  regions  of 
the  same  island  are  free  from  it.  Cholera  is 
endemic  only  in  Hindustan,  near  the  banks 
of  the  Ganges  River. 

When  these,  or  any  other  diseases,  over- 
pass limited  places,  and  appear  in  many 
localities,  they,  are  said  to  be  epidemic. 
Yellow  fever  is  often  epidemic.  Cholera, 
once  in  several  years,  starts  out  from  India, 
and  travels  mostly  westward. 

Plague  was  once  universally,  and  is  now 
generally,  believed  to  be  extremely  con- 
tagious. 

Erysipelas  and  puerperal  fever  cannot  be 
positively  said  never  to  be  extended  from 
one  person  to  another.  Diphtheria,  like- 
wise, is  sometimes  given  by  one  person  to  an- 
other; Usually,  however,  diphtheria  is 
either  a  local  endemic  or  a  slowly  migrat- 
ing epidemic  disorder. 

Influenza  is  always  an  epidemic  ;  nobody 
imagines  it  to  be  contagious  from  person  to 
person.  The  same  rule  is  also  of  dengue, 
the  ' '  breakbone  fever ' '  of  the  Southern 
States,  and  of  a  form  oi  dysentery  prevalent 
during  the  summer  and  autumn  in  some 
localities. 


26 


249 


NATURE   OF   DISEASES 


Children  sometimes  die  of  old  age.  That 
is,  their  original  endowment  of  life  energy 
was  so  small  as  to  be  exhausted  during  in- 
fancy. Others  die  very  soon  because  of 
sotLe  defective  development  of  a  vital  organ  or 
organs. 

At  any  period  of  life  the  disorders  to 
which  we  are  all  subject  consist  in  one  or 
both  of  the  following  changes : 

1.  Disturbance  of  the  actio7t  of  some 
oigan  or  organs  by  a  morbid  cause. 

2.  Alteration  of  the  striidiire  or  substance 
of  one  or  more  organs  ;  inducing,  of  course, 
change  also  in  its  action. 

To  the  first  of  these  the  term  ' '  functional 
disorders  ' '  is  applied  ;  those  of  the  second 
sort  are  "  organic  diseases."  Temporary 
changes  in  the  substance  or  structure  of  an 
organ  often  occur,  as  when  it  is  iyifiamed, 
from  which  there  may  or  may  not  follow 
permanent  organic  alterations. 

Only  slight  affections  of  even  small  parts 
of  the  body  can  take  place  and  last  for  any 
time,  without  involving  the  general  system 
more  or  less  in  disturbance.  Also,  a  disorder 
beginning  in  the  blood,  and  thus  being  a 
^e7ieral  malady,  nearly  if  not  quite  always 
puts  some  of  the  functions  of  the  organs  out 
of  order.  Still  some  cases  do  begin  in,  and 
chiefly  affect,  particular  organs  ;  these  we 
call  local  disorders ;  others  begin  in  the 
blood,  and  involve  the  body  in  many  of  its 
functions  ;  those  are  well  described  as  gen- 
eral diseases.  We  will  give  attention  here, 
first,  to  the  nature  of  the  disturbances  com- 
ing under  the  former  of  these  heads. 

Local  Disorders. 

Medical  books  speak  of  irritation,  con- 
gestion (^hypercemia) ,  inflammation,  mortifi- 
cation, and  degeneration,  as  affections  of 
organs  of  the  body,  Atrophy,  hypertrophy, 
and  morbid  growths  are  such  also  ;  and  less 
purely  local,  but  often  more  or  less  restricted, 
are  dropsical  effusions. 

Irritation. 

An  eye  is  irritated  when  a  spark  from  a 
locomotive,  or  a  bit  of  sand,  or  an  inverted 
eyelash,  get  into  it.  A  mustard-plaster  first 
stimulates  the  circulation  of  the  skin  where 


250 


it  is  applied  ;  this  may  be  quite  within  the 
bounds  of  healthy  action,  if  the  mustard  be 
soon  withdrawn.  If  it  remain  longer,  irri- 
tation is  shown  by  pain  and  soreness  ;  next, 
if  still  allowed  to  act,  it  will  produce  m/la?n 
mation.  Irritation  of  Ihe  stomach  may  be 
caused  by  indigestible  food,  or,  more  serious 
in  degree,  by  certain  poisonous  substances  ; 
as  strong  acids,  alkalies,  arsenic,  or  corro- 
sive sublimate. 

Congestion  (or  Hyperaemia). 

This  ma}'  be  an  active  flowing  of  more 
blood  than  common  through  a  part,  or  a 
passive  collection  of  blood  in  the  part.  Stim- 
ulation produces  the  former  ;  when  it  passes 
beyond  the  line  of  health  into  irritation, 
passive  congestion  occurs  at  the  centre  of 
the  irritation,  active  congestion  in  the  parts 
around  it.  Determination  of  blood  towards 
any  portion  of  the  body  may  be,  when  very 
decided,  coWtd  local hypera'inia.  A  bloodless 
condition  of  an  organ  is  called  a  local 
a-ncemia.  This  first  simply  means  excess  of 
blood  ;  the  second,  deficiency  of  blood. 

Inflammation. 

All  the  world  knows  when  a  hand,  a  foot, 
or  an  eye  is  inflamed.  Proverbially,  the 
signs  of  this  are  7'ed7iess,  heat,  pai7i,  and 
swel!i7ig.  The  redness  is  owing  to  the  ex- 
cess of  blood;  the  heat  to  the  same  cause, 
with  also  probably  some  increase  of  chemical 
change  in  the  part.  Pain  is  not  quite  so 
clearly  to  be  accounted  for.  Pressure  on  a 
nerve  is  known  to  cause  pain  ;  and  the  excess 
of  blood  beating  on  a  part  at  whose  ce7itre  is 
stag7iatio7i ,  must  induce  considerable  pres- 
sure. Nerve-pain  (neuralgia),  however, 
often  occurs  without  inflammation  and  with- 
out pressure.  Some  one  has  wisely  said 
that  pain  is  always  a  sign  of  a  tendency  in 
the  part  towards  death.  It  is,  at  least,  in- 
dicative oiloivcred  vitality,  local  or  general  ; 
and  that  is  present  at  the  cc7it7-e  of  an  inflamed 
organ,  while  around  it  there  may  be  the 
heightened  activity  of  stimulation.  In  a 
boil,  and  yet  more  fully  in  a  carbiaicle,  we 
see  the  dead  centre  (core)  of  the  violent 
inflammation,  when  its  force  is  nearly  spent. 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


The  swelling  of  an  inflamed  part  is  due 
in  considerable  degree  to  the  accumulation 
of  blood  in  it.  But,  under  the  pressure  of 
the  heightened  circulation,  some  of  the 
lymph  (watery  portion)  of  the  blood  escapes 
from  the  blood-vessels  into  the  substance 
of  the  part.  This  undergoes  changes ,  which 
are  important. 

An  active  or  acute  inflammation  may  end 
in  several  ways  : 

1 .  Resolution  is  the  early  passing  oflf 
of  all  the  inflammatory  symptoms,  leaving 
almost  no  sensible  change  in  the  part. 

2.  Effusion  of  lymph,  not  at  once  ab- 
sorbed, shows  itself  in  bands  which  glue 
together  tissues  naturally  movable,  or  in  a 
collection  of  fluid  (serum),  constituting  a 
form  of  local  dropsy.  In  an  attack  of 
pleurisy,  both  of  these  results  may  follow 
instead  of  resolution. 

3 .  Suppuration  is  the  formation  of  pus  ; 
that  is,  yellow  matter,  which  is  very  seldom 
absorbed,  and  whose  best  destiny  is  to  be 
got  out  of  the  body  by  an  opening,  natural 
or  artificial,  at  or  near  the  external  surface. 
Every  ' '  gathering  ' '  or  abscess  is  an  ex- 
ample of  this.  PycBtnia  is  a  general  disorder 
of  the  system,  with  a  disposition  towards 
the  formation  of  collections  of  pus  in  differ- 
ent organs,  with  fever  and  much  weakness, 
endangering  life. 

4.  Mortification,  also  csiW&dL gangrene , 
or  sloughing,  is  the  actual  death  of  the  part. 
Frozen  feet  mortify,  not  from  inflammation, 
but  from  the  directly  killing  effect  of  cold. 
Inflammation  does  not  often  end  in  mortifi- 
cation ;  if  it  does  so,  it  is  either  from  the 
extreme  intensity  of  the  inflammatory  pro- 
cess, or  from  a  very  low  vital  condition  of 
the  patient  affected. 

Inflammation  is  modified  considerably 
by  specific  causes  of  disease.  A  gouty  toe 
is  one  example  of  this  ;  a  wrist  or  elbow  in- 
flamed with  rheumatic  fever  is  another. 
The  sore  throat  of  quinsy,  that  of  scarlet 
fever,  and  that  of  diphtheria,  are  all  hiflam- 
Tnations,  yet  each  somewhat  different  from 
the  others.  The  pustule  of  vaccination  and 
that  of  genuine  small-pox  are  not  precisely 
alike  ;  and  still  different  is  that  of  chicken- 
pox  ;  and  so  on  with  other  specific  diseases. 

Chronic  inflammation  is  not  a  desirable 
term,  though  it  is  used  in  all  medical  books. 


In  it,  redness,  pain,  or  at  least  soreness,  and 
more  or  less  swelling,  are  present,  in  vary- 
ing degrees ;  but  there  is  no  effusion  of 
lymph,  which  really  is  the  characteristic 
of  a  true  inflammation.  Irritability  is  a 
usual  part  of  what  is  called  chronic  inflam- 
mation ;  we  might  often  with  advantage 
speak  of  this  in  describing  the  disorder: 
thus,  irritable  eyes,  irritable  stomach,  irrit- 
able bladder,  irritable  womb,  irritable  brain, 
etc. 

Hypertrophy  or  Overgrowth. 

Overgrowth  is  the  meaning  of  this  word  ; 
increase  in  size  without  essential  change  in 
the  nature  of  a  part.  An  organ  may  enlarge 
very  much,  with  a  great  change  in  its  char- 
acter ;  for  example,  a  tumor  of  the  breast, 
or  a  dropsy  of  the  head.  Again,  an  organ 
may  be  stretched  or  dilated  without  even  an 
increase  of  its  substance. 

The  heart  exemplifies  two  of  these 
changes  in  different  instances.  If  one  of  its 
valves  through  which  the  blood  passes  be- 
comes obstructed  from  disease,  the  heart  has 
to  labor  more  than  usually  to  compel  the 
blood  to  pass  by  the  obstruction.  Like 
other  muscles  (the  heart  being  really  a 
hollow  muscle),  this  extra  labor  may  have 
either  of  two  results,  according  to  the  con- 
ditions present.  If  the  person's  constitu- 
tion be  strong,  and  his  blood  well  nourished, 
the  much- worked  heart  will  grow  thicker 
and  more  powerful  with  the  exercise.  This 
is  hypertrophy.  But,  if  the  contrary  be  the 
case,  with  a  feeble  system  and  poor  blood, 
the  heart  is  weakened  by  its  excess  of  labor, 
and  it  stretches  or  becomes  thin  (attenuated) 
and  dilated. 

The  thickening  of  the  skin  of  a  working- 
man's  hands  shows  an  increased  growth 
from  habitual  rough  usage.  A  corn  is  a 
hypertrophy,  and  so  is  a  wart ;  both  involv- 
ing almost  entirely  the  outer  skin  or  cuticle. 
Wens  and  pimples  show  a  greater  change  of 
substance  with  enlargement. 

Atrophy  and   Degeneration. 

Atrophy  is  the  opposite  to  hypertrophy. 
Want  of  blood  or  of  the  supply  of  nervous 
energy  will  cause  an  organ  to  shriuk  away. 
So  a  palsied  hand  often,  in  time,  withers  to 
half   its   original    size.       Atrophy    occurs 


251 


8 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


naturally,  all  over  the  body,  with  old  age. 
First  the  fat  is  absorbed,  then  the  muscles, 
and  afterward  other  parts. 

Degeneration. — Instead  of  lessening  in 
size,  however,  from  loss  of  life-force,  an 
organ  may  grow  larger,  with  change  of  sub- 
stance. ^\iSs>'\%  organic  degeneration.  The 
substance  taking  the  place  of  the  natural 
tissue  of  the  part  is  always  inferior  in  char- 
acter to  that  tissue.  Thus /a/  may  take  the 
place  of  muscle,  as  in  "  fatty  degeneration  of 
the  heart."  Or  bone-like  material  may 
form  in  place  of  the  proper  substance  of  the 
arteries  ;  making  ' '  ossification  ' '  of  those 
vessels.  Or  the  liver  or  kidney  may  be  en- 
larged, the  normal  cells  of  either  organ  being 
replaced  by  a  material  like  the  areolar 
("cellular")  tissue  of  the  surface  of  the 
body  under  the  skin.  Tubercle,  of  the 
lungs  or  other  parts,  is  essentially  a  kind  of 
degeneration  ;  although  it  often  follows  at- 
tacks of  inflammation.  Acute  and  chronic 
inflammation  of  various  organs  is  frequently 
followed  by  hardening  or  softening ;  both 
of  these  being  modes  of  degenerative  alter- 
ation. 

Dropsy. 

Seldom  does  an  accumulation  of  water 
occur  in  one  part  of  the  body  without  some 
previous  general  disorder  of  the  system ,  or 
at  least  an  affection  of  some  of  the  great 
organs :  the  heart,  liver,  or  kidneys.  We 
do  sometimes  meet  with  "  white  swelling  " 
of  the  knee ;  but  nearly  always  there  are 
also  signs  of  a  "  scrofulous  ' '  constitution  to 
predispose  to  it. 

Inflammation  may,  however,  cause  an 
effusion  of  serum,  which  remains  after  the 
acuteness  of  the  attack  has  passed.  The 
simplest  illustration  of  this  is  seen  in  a 
blister. 

Suppose  mustard  to  be  applied  to  the 
skin.  First,  we  see  stimulation  shown  by 
redness  and  heat,  with  very  little  if  any 
swelling,  and  no  pain.  Next,  irritation, 
with  soreness  and  pain,  perhaps  quite  severe  ; 
then  inflammation,  followed  by  efl'usion, 
which  raises  the  skin  into  what  we  call  a 
"blister." 

So,  also,  when  the  pleura,  which  lines 
the  ribs  and  wraps  the  lungs,  is  inflamed,  it 
throws  out  in  a  few  days  more  or  less  lymph, 

2 


as  an  effusion.  If  this  is  copious  in  amount, 
it  presses  the  lung  away,  and  interferes  with 
its  expansion  in  breathing.  This  is  some- 
times so  serious  a  trouble  as  to  induce  phy- 
sicians to  tap  the  chest  and  draw  off  the 
water  to  relieve  the  oppressed  lung.  Like- 
wise, inflammation  of  the  covering  of  the 
heart  (^pericarditis^  may  result  in  a  serious 
effusion  within  the  pericardial  sac,  clogging 
the  heart  so  as  not  infrequently  to  cause 
death.  Hydrocephalus,  or  water  on  the 
brain,  may  originate  in  a  similar  way. 

Dropsy  of  the  chest,  however,  dropsy  of 
the  head,  dropsy  of  the  abdomen  {ascites), 
and  general  dropsy,  are  much  more  often 
brought  on  by  obstruction  of  the  circulation, 
with  thinning  of  the  blood,  from  disease  of 
the  liver,  kidneys,  or  heart,  or  two  or  more 
of  those  organs  at  the  same  time.  Ovarian 
dropsy  attends  a  disease  of  one  or  both  of 
the  ovaries. 

CEdema  is  a  watery  swelling  of  a  part  of 
the  surface  of  the  body  or  limbs. 

Emphysema  is  a  puffiness  of  the  skin, 
or  lungs,  from  accumulation  of  air  in  the 
cellular  substance  of  the  part  affected. 

Mortification. 

When  a  part,  as  a  coe,  a  whole  foot,  leg, 
or  arm  dies,  while  the  rest  of  the  body  lives, 
it  is  said  to  mortify,  slough,  or  suffer  gan- 
grene. Once  in  a  while  the  feet  of  an  old 
person  may  undergo  slow  and  dry  gangrene. 
When  an  artery,  as  that  of  an  arm,  is 
plugged  up  by  a  clot,  the  arm  is  apt  to 
mortify  in  consequence.  Frozen  feet  or  toes 
often  die  and  slough  off.  Sometimes,  es- 
pecially in  ill-ventilated  hospitals,  stumps 
of  amputated  limbs,  and  wounds  of  various 
kinds,  slough  instead  of  healing  (hospital 
gangrene).  Quite  rarely,  sore  mouth  in 
children  may  become  gangrenous  ;  and  even 
a  lung,  or  a  portion  of  it,  may  become  the 
seat  of  gangrene.  In  the  last  case,  the 
patient  is  almost  sure  to  die. 

Mortification  of  a  part  is  always  more  or 
less  dangerous  to  the  life  of  the  whole  body 
in  two  ways.  First,  the  sloughing  process 
may  extend  gradually  from  the  part  affected 
towards  the  centre  of  the  body ;  and  thus, 
involviyig  vital  parts,  it  may  become  fatal. 
Or  dead  matter  from  the  gangrenous  portion 
may  be  absorbed  by  the  vessels  y,  and  so  poison 
52 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


the  blood  {septicoemia)  in  a  manner  seldom 
recovered  from. 

When  mortification  is  confined  to  a  small 
part  of  the  body,  as  a  frozen  toe  or  finger, 
the  rest  of  the  system  being  in  a  healthy 
state,  a  line  of  demarcation  naturally  forms, 
separating  the  dead  from  the  living  tissues. 
In  some  cases,  a  surgeon  will  then  consider 
it  best  to  hasten  and  complete  the  process  ; 
rempving  the  sloughing  part,  by  an  oper- 
ation. In  other  instances,  the  dead  parts 
will  drop  oflf,  leaving  a  surface  which  will 
gradually  heal. 

florbid  Growths. 

Warts,  corns,  bunions,  wens,  moles,  bony 
enlargevients ,  fibrous  mid  fatty  tumors,  are 
all  unsightly,  and  the  last  named  may  be 
considerably  inconvenient.  But  they  do  not 
of  themselves  tend  to  undergo  such  increase 
or  morbid  changes  as  to  be  dangerous  to 
life.  They  may  therefore,  by  comparison, 
be  called  innocent  growths. 

Malignant   tumors  are  generally  in- 


cluded under  the  name  cancer.  They  tenc 
to  grow  indefinitely,  at  the  expense  of  the 
neighboring  parts  and  of  the  general  system. 
They  often  change  their  character,  becoming 
open,  discharging,  offensive  sores  ;  the  seat, 
moreover,  generally  of  severe  pain.  At  last, 
the  whole  body  of  a  cancerous  patient  be- 
comes unhealthy  ;  and  the  end,  after  vari 
ous  periods,  is  death. 

Cancers  may  be  either  schirrus,  colloid, 
or  encephaloid.  Schirrus  is  hard  cajicer.  Col- 
loid is  jelly-like.  Encephaloid  is  soft,  al- 
most like  brain  substance. 

The  parts  of  the  body  most  liable  to  be 
attacked  by  cancer  (especially  after  middle 
life)  are  the  womb,  the  female  breast,  the 
stomach,  and  the  lower  bowel  {rectum)  ;  but 
various  other  organs  are  sometimes  invaded 
by  it.  Schirrus  is  most  apt  to  be  met  in  the 
breast,  stomach  or  bowel  ;  colloid,  in  the 
stomach,  bowel,  or  covering  of  the  bowels 
{mese7itery,  peritoneum).  Ericephaloid  may 
occur  in  any  organ  ;  it  is  the  only  kind  evei 
seen  in  the  eye,  liver,  kidney,  lung,  etc. 


GENERAL  DISORDERS 


We  may  name  these  as  debility,  anosmia, 
plethora,  cochexio,  neuratoxia,  toxozmia,  and 
fever. 

Debility. 

One  is  apt  to  feel  weak,  when  anything 
whatever  is  the  matter.  This  may  arise 
from  loss  of  blood,  from  excessive  fatigue, 
from  continued  illness,  or  from  a  severe 
shock  to  the  system  from  any  cause.  Either 
of  these  may  cause  depression  or  prostration, 
of  which  the  extremest  degree  is  called 
collapse. 

In  the  beginning  of  all  such  affections, 
the  weakness  is  that  of  oppression.  The 
organs  of  the  body  are  clogged,  so  to  speak  ; 
skin,  kidneys,  bowels,  etc.,  are,  for  the  time, 
hindered  in  their  action,  and  the  loaded 
blood  fails  to  stimulate  aright  the  various 
functions, 

It  is  important,  in  treating  debility,  to 
distinguish  of  what  kind  it  is.  Exhaustion, 
as  after  long  illness,  is  ^9  be  recovered  from, 
with  time,  under  nourishing  food,  rest,  pure 
air,  etc.  Depression,  or  prostration,  as  from 
a  severe  shock,  by  warmth,  rest,  and  stimu- 
lation, according  to  the  nature  and  degree  of 


the  case.  Oppression  of  the  organs,  at  the 
onset  of  a  disease,  is  best  relieved  by  unload- 
ing the  system  with  purgative  medicines, 
and  those  which  promote  the  action  of  the 
skin  and  kidneys  ;  sometimes,  in  an  early 
stage,  by  the  withdrawal  of  blood  from  the 
arm,  or  by  leeches  or  cups  from  a  central 
part. 

Ansemia  and  Plethora. 

Poverty  of  blood  may  result  from  various 
diseases,  or  from  loss  of  blood,  too  long 
nursing,  etc.  Weakness  accompanies  it,  of 
the  kind  above  called  exhaustion.  An 
anaemic  person  is  usually  pale  (though  per- 
haps easily  flushed  by  excitement),  rather 
thin,  and  "nervous."  There  is  a  form  of 
this  disorder  called  progressive  pernicious 
anaemia,  which  cannot  be  accounted  for  by 
ordinary  causes,  and  which  it  is  almost  or 
quite  impossible  to  cure  by  any  treatment. 

Plethora  is  the  opposite  of  anaemia.  In 
it,  the  red  corpuscles  of  the  blood  are  too 
numerous,  and  the  blood  itself  is  redundant 
in  amount.  A  plethoric  person  is  round  and 
plump  (not  necessarily/^/),  with  full  blood- 
vessels and  a  high  color.     Such  an  one  is 


253 


lO 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


more  liable  than  others,  in  early  life,  to  acute 
inflammations  and  active  hemorrhages  ;  after 
middle  age  to  apoplexy. 

Cachexia  or  Diathesis. 

By  this  is  meant  some  abnormal  con- 
dition of  the  constitution. 

LetikcBmia  (or  leucocythgemia)  is  a  dis- 
ease in  which  there  is  an  excess  of  white  or 
colorless  corpuscles  in  the  blood. 

Another  cachexia  is  scurvy  (scorbutus)  ; 
brought  on  by  deficiency  of  fresh  food  ;  es- 
pecially of  vegetable  food. 

Another  is  goitre  or  bronchocele,  whose 
main  feature  is  a  swelling  in  the  neck,  in- 
volving the  thyroid  gland. 

Chlorosis,  or  "green  sickness,"  is  a  ca- 
chexia sometimes  met  with  in  girls  or  young 
women  ;  the  name  is  given  because  of  a  pe- 
culiar sallowness  of  complexion  belonging 
to  it. 

Rickets  occur  tolerably  often  among  the 
ill-fed  poor  in  the  cities  of  Europe ;  much 
more  seldom  in  this  country.  Those  having 
it  are  feeble  from  childhood,  with  defective 
development  especially  of  the  bones  ;  which 
are  easily  broken  and  subject  to  decay. 

Tuberculosis  is  the  constitutional  affection 
of  which  consumption  of  the  lungs  is  the 
most  familiar  manifestation  ;  but  it  often 
also  affects  the  bowels,  brain  and  other  or- 
gans. Tubercles  are  the  small,  irregular, 
roundish  deposits  found  after  death  in  the 
place  of  healthy  tissues  ;  which,  however, 
frequently  soften,  leaving  cavities.  Tuber- 
ailar  me^iingitis  is  the  name  given  to  an 
almost  always  fatal  form  of  inflammation  of 
the  membranes  of  the  brain,  in  children. 

Scrofula  is  an  old  designation  for  a  con- 
stitutional tendency  showing  itself  early  in 
life,  by  swelling  of  the  glands  of  the  neck 
and  elsewhere,  sore  eyes,  sore  nose,  running 
at  the  ears,  and  sometimes  inflammation  and 
decay  of  the  bones  of  the  limbs,  or  "  white 
swelling  "  of  the  knee. 

Toxaemia :  Blood-Poisoning. 

Blood-poisoning  can  never  be  a  trifling 
thing.  We  should  be  in  deadly  danger  of  it 
every  day,  but  that  so  much  is  arranged  in 
our  bodies  not  only  to  prevent  it,  but  to  re- 


lieve it  promptly  when  it  begins  to  take 
place.  Indeed,  each  particle  of  used-up 
matter,  which  has  served  its  purpose  in  any 
organ,  becomes  poisonous  the  moment  it 
gets  into  the  blood.  But  then,  at  once,  the 
lungs,  skin,  kidneys,  and  bowels,  with  help 
also  from  the  liver,  take  from  the  blood  these 
dead  particles,  and  carry  them  out,  in  the 
exhaled  breath,  perspiration,  urine,  and  ex- 
crement. 

There  are  several  forms  of  blood-poison- 
ing, due  to  suppression  of  the  action  of  the 
kidneys,  nonsecretion  of  bile  by  the  liver, 
or  to  retention  of  putrefiable  matter  not  car- 
ried off  by  the  bowels. 

Next  to  these  may  be  named  septiccemia, 
produced  by  the  absorption  of  foul  material 
from  a  surface  of  the  body,  or  near  it ;  as 
from  a  gangrenous  wound  or  an  unhealthy 
abscess.  Outside  poisons  reach  the  blood 
through  the  mouth  and  stomach,  by  the 
lungs,  or  by  the  skin,  as  by  bad  drinking' 
water,  and  the  microbes  of  malaria,  small- 
pox, scarlet  fever,  yellow  fever,  cholera,  etc. 

Fever. 

When  one  has  a  hot,  dry  skin,  a  glowing 
red  cheek,  thirst,  a  rapid  pulse,  and  weak- 
ness of  body,  with  more  or  less  dulness  or 
disturbance  of  the  mental  faculties,  we  say 
he  has  fever.  Constipation  of  the  bowels, 
and  scanty  secretion  from  the  kidneys,  also 
commonly  belong  to  the  same  condition. 
But  of  all  this  group  of  symptoms,  the  most 
constant  is  heat.  In  health,  a  thermometer 
in  the  armpit  will  mark  98.5°  Fahr.  Fever 
often  runs  it  up  to  103°,  104°,  105°,  or  even 
higher  still. 

Fever  is  met  with  in  connection  with 
many  diseases.  Inflammation  of  any  of  the 
great  organs,  brain,  lungs,  heart,  pleura, 
bronchial  tubes,  stomach,  bowels,  etc.,  will, 
when  active,  be  attended  by  it.  And,  with- 
out any  inflammation,  we  meet  with  it  in 
typhus ;  also  with  inflammatory  affections 
secondary  to  the  general  disease,  in  scarlet 
fever,  small-pox,  measles,  diphtheria  ;  and 
with  or  without  local  inflammations,  in  yel- 
low fever,  in  relapsing,  intermittent,  and  re- 
mittent fevers  ;  perhaps  also  sometimes 
without  any  true  acute  inflammation,  in  ty- 
phoid fever.  • 


254 


II 


CLASSIFICATION    OF   DISEASES 


Various  plans  of  arrangement  have  been 
proposed,  and  are  in  use,  I  prefer  to  name 
all  diseases  as  either  iNFLAivfTATiONS  and 
Toxemic  disorders,  Cacheci_c  affections. 
Nervous  disorders,  or  Unclassifiable 
diseases . 

Under  the  first  head  we  place  inflamma- 
tory attacks  affecting  Brain  (meningitis*), 
lyUNGS  (pneumonia).  Pleura  (pleurisy), 
Air-Passagej?.  (laryngitis,  tracheitis,  bron- 
chitis). Heart  (endocarditis,  pericarditis), 
Tonsils  (quinsy),  Throat  (pharyngitis), 
Stomach  (gastritis),  Bowels  (enteritis, 
colitis,  dysentery),  Peritoneum  (periton- 
itis), Liver  (hepatitis),  Kidney  (nephritis). 
Bladder  (cystitis),  etc. 

As  Toxemic  disorders  may  be  men- 
tioned: 1.  Those  caused  only  by  contact 
or  inoculation:  Primary  Syphilis,  Gon- 
ORRHCEA,  Hydrophobia,  Vaccinia. f  2. 
EruptiveX  diseases,  which  are  contagious  : 
Small-Pox,  Chicken-Pox,  Scarlet  Fe- 
ver, Measles.  3.  Allied  affections  to  the 
above,  hxXnot  ei^uptive ,  although  contagious: 
Mumps  and  Whopping-Cough.  4.  Diseases 
generally  epidemic  or  endemic:  Typhoid 
Fever,  Typhus,  Spotted  (cerebro-spinal) 
Fever,  Erysipelas,  Puerperal  Fever, 
Influenza,  Diphtheria,  Plague,  and 
Cholera.  5.  Endemic  and  occasionally 
epidemic ;  Yellow  Fever,  Relapsing 
Fever,  and  Dengue.  6.  Endemic  and 
^  ^ malarious' ' :  INTERMITTENT,  Remittent, 
and  Pernicious  (congestive)  Fever. 

Of  Cachectic  affections,  a  part  of  the 
long  list  will  answer  our  purpose  here,  i . 
Those  which  are  always  chronic  (prolonged 
indefinitely,  tedious,  not  tending  to  re- 
cover of  themselves) :  Anemia,  Chlorosis, 
LeuK/Emia,  General  Dropsy,  Tubercul- 
osis, Diabetes,  Constitutional  Syphilis. 
2.  Acute  or  subacute  (active,  and  of  limited 
duration):  Scurvy,  Gout,  Inflammatory 
Rheumatism,  Pyemia,  Septic  Fever, 
(septicaemia),  etc.  3.  Local  cachexise  (de- 
generations): as  Cancer,  Goitre,  Brights' 
Disease  (of  the  kidneys).  Fatty  Heart, 
Gin  Liver,  etc.     4.  Skin-Diseases. 

*Nearly  always  this  term  applies;  meaning  inflamma- 
tion of  the  membranes  ofthe  b-ain  as  well  as  of  its  substance. 

t  Glanders,  sometimes  taken  from  the  horse,  is  another 
of  this  g^oup. 

t  Physicians  often  call  these  exanthemnta- 


Nervous  Disorders  may  also  be  only 
in  part  named  here :  Apoplexy,  Paralysis 
(palsy).  Epilepsy,  Catalepsy,  Hysteria, 
Chorea  (St.  Vitus 's  dance).  Tetanus 
(lock-jaw).  Asthma,  Angina  Pectoris, 
Locomotor  Ataxy  (one  form  of  spine- 
disease).  Convulsions,  Neuralgia,  De- 
lirium Tremens,  (mania-a-potu)  Insanity. 

Of  Unclassifiable  diseases,  not  easily 
fitting  in  either  of  the  above  groups,  there 
are  Dyspepsia,  Cholera  Morbus,  Diar- 
rhcea.  Colic,  Jaundice,  Hemorrhages, 
Local  Dropsies,  Worms,  etc. 

Signs  and  Symptoms  of  Diseases. 

On  approaching  a  sick  person,  our  first 
question ,  whether  put  into  words  or  not,  is 
naturally.  Is  there  much  the  m,atter  f 

Other  inquiries  follow,  such  as  these : 
Has  he  fever  ?  Is  he  very  weak  f  Is  his 
head  clear  ?  Does  he  suffer  pain  anywhere  ? 
What  organ  or  function  of  his  body  is  not  as 
it  ought  to  be  ? 

So  we  proceed  from  one  thing  to  another 
in  forming  what  doctors  call  a  diagnosis  of 
a  case.  Experience  makes  such  an  exami- 
nation more  and  more  easy,  rapid  and  effi- 
cient. A  besetting  temptation,  even  with 
physicians,  is,  when  enough  has  been  found 
out  to  give  a  probable  name  for  the  malady 
of  the  patient,  to  conclude  at  once  that  this 
is  the  whole  matter,  and  that  we  know  all 
about  his  case.  This  cannot  be  true,  how- 
ever, unless  we  have  carefully  scrutinized 
a// his  organs,  or  at  least  have  satisfied  our- 
selves on  good  evidence  as  to  the  presence 
or  absence  of  disorder  in  them  all. 

Our  plan  here  makes  suitable  only  a 
short  account  of  the  principal  symptoms 
found  in  connection  with  different  parts  of 
the  body,  and  their  meaning ;  or,  at  least, 
the  conditions  with  which  they  are  most 
likely  to  be  associated. 

Symptoms  Affecting  the  Skin. 

The  skin  is  hot  and  dry  in  fever. 

Moisture  is  nearly  always  a  favorable 
sign.  Exceptions  are,  the  cold  and  clammy 
perspiration  of  great  prostration,  and  the 
copious  sweating  of  advanced  consumption. 


255 


12 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


Emaciation  (wasting)  is  seen  generally 
in  those  long  sick.  Sometimes  it  occurs 
rapidly,  as  in  severe  diarrhoea,  or  in  the 
summer  complaint  of  children. 

The  color  of  the  skin  may  be  changed 
considerably  in  disease.     The  fav_e  is — 

Pale,  during  fainting,  with  sick  stomach, 
and  in  anaemic  persons. 

Flushed,  in  fever,  early  stage  of  apo- 
plexy, or  intoxication. 

Cheeks  brightly  flushed,  in  hectic 
fever  of  consumptives. 

Purple  or  livid,  in  typhoid  or  typhus 
fever. 

Yellow,  in  jaundice,  bilious  fever,  and 
yellow  fever. 

Sallow,  in  chlorosis,  dyspepsia,  and 
cancer. 

Blue,  in  the  collapse  of  cholera,  and 
cyanosis. 

Black,  almost,  in  suffocation  from  any 
cause. 

Eruptions  upon  the  skin  belong  to  cer- 
tain other  diseases. 

Symptoms  Presented  by  the  Mouth,  etc. 

The  TONGUE  is  pale,  in  anaemic  persons  ; 
red  in  scarlet  fever,  inflamed  mouth,  and 
sometimes  when  the  stomach  is  inflamed 
{gastrins)  ;  furred,  in  indigestion,  and  very 
often  in  fever;  brown,  or  black,  cracked 
and  fissured,  in  low  fevers,  as  typhoid  or 
typhus.  It  is  pushed  out  with  difficulty  in 
low  fevers,  and  after  an  apoplectic  attack  ; 
going  to  one  side,  in  paralysis  affecting  one 
side  only. 

The  teeth  are  covered  with  thick  brown 
stuff  called  "  sordes  "  in  low  febrile  states. 
They  are  loosened,  sometimes,  by  severe 
salivation,  from  large  doses  of  mercury — 
(not  now  given  by  regular  physicians). 

The  GUMS  are  swollen,  soft,  and  spongy, 
and  disposed  to  bleed  easily  in  scurvy.  A 
blue  line  along  the  gums  is  observed  in  lead- 
poisoning  ;  a  red  line,  occasionally,  in  ad- 
vancing consumption.  Swelling  and  sore- 
ness of  the  gums,  with  tenderness  of  the 
teeth  and  a  "  coppery  "  taste  in  the  mouth, 
are  signs  of  mercurial  salivation. 

Increase  of  saliva  gives  the  name  to  this 
affection,  once  not  uncommon  in  medical 
practice.  Iodide  of  potassium,  taken  medi- 
cinally,   will    sometimes    salivate.       Large 


doses  of  jaborandi,  or  its  active  principle, 
pilocarpin,  generally  does  so. 

The  TASTE  is  morbid  bitter  in  disorder 
of  the  liver  ;  sour,  often,  in  dyspepsia  ,  salt- 
ish, with  .spitting  of  blood  ;  putrid  in  gan- 
grene of  the  lungs. 

The  Throat. 

Difficulty  of  swallowing  may  result 
from  inflanimation  of  the  tonsils  or  gullet 
{pharynx)  ;  spasmodic  closure  of  the  throat ; 
permanent  narrowing  or  stricture  of  the 
pharynx  or  lower  gullet  {oesophagus) ;  ob- 
struction., as  from  a  bone,  etc.  ;  paralysis,  as 
after  diphtheria,  or  extreme  weakness,  in  the 
dying  state. 

Thirst  is  excessive  in  two  opposite  con- 
ditions :  high  fever  and  low  collapse. 

The  Stomach. 

Appetite  is  almost  always  deficient  in 
both  acute  and  chronic  disease ;  most  so, 
however,  in  the  former,  as  a  rule.  Per- 
verted appetite  occurs  in  case  of  chlorosis, 
and  in  some  hysterical  %^^!o']^Q^s,. 

Nausea  (sick  stomach),  with  or  without 
vomiting,  is  met  with  in  indigestion,  colic, 
seasickness,  pregnancy  (morning  sickness) , 
gastritis  (inflammation  of  the  stomach), 
hysteria  (occasionally),  cholera-morbus ,  epi- 
demic cholera,  bilious  remittent  fever,  yellow 
fever,  ulcer  of  stomach,  cancer  of  stomach, 
strangidated  hernia  (rupture),  obstruction  of 
the  bowels,  irrita?it poisoning. 

Symptoms  Belonging  to  the  Circulation. 

Palpitation,  or  disturbed  action  of  the 
heart,  may  depend  upon  inflam^nation  of  its 
membranes  {pericarditis,  endocarditis),  en- 
largeme?it  {hypertrophy  or  dilatation),  valvu- 
lar disease,  anaemia,  with  weakness,  nervous 
irritability  (nervousness),  as  from  strong 
coffee,  tobacco,  etc.,  dyspepsia,  brain  dis- 
order. 

A  FEVER  pulse  is  moderately  rapid,  and 
in  the  early  stages  of  an  attack,  strong ; 
later,  soft  and  compressible.  When  violent 
acute  inflammation  of  any  organ  is  present, 
it  is  quickened,  hard,  and  rather  full,  as  a 
rule. 

A  nervously-disturbed  pulse  is  quick 
(jerking  rather  than  rapid),    and  variable, 
under  excitement  or  repose, 
S6 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


13 


In  extreme;  weakness,  most  of  all  in 
the  dying  state,  the  pulse  is  nearly  always 
rapid  and  small,  or  "thready."  A  pulse 
of  150  or  160  in  a  minute,  is  almost  always 
a  sign  of  death.  Very  rarely  is  the  pulse 
slow  in  the  dying  state. 

Slowness  of  the  pulse  is  most  marked  in 
compression  of  the  brain  (as  in  apoplexy, 
fracture  of  the  skull,  or  hydrocephalus,  i.e., 
water  on  the  brain),  and  in  opium poiso7iing . 
Occasionally  the  pulse  is  very  slow  in  cases 
of  heart  disorder. 

Irregularity  of  the  pulse  is  natural  to 
a  small  number  of  persons,  at  least  in  child- 
hood or  in  old  age,  without  other  signs  of 


FEELING  THE   PULSK 


disease.  It  may  be,  otherwise,  a  transient 
symptom,  particularly  during  convalescence 
from  a  fever.  It  is  distinctly  related  to  dis- 
ease present,  in  certain  cases  oi  heart  disease 
(when  it  is  serious)  and  in  the  third  stage  of 
acute  meniiigitis  (inflammation  of  the  brain). 
Excessive  smoking  of  tobacco  sometimes  pro- 
duces irregularity  of  the  pulse. 

A  double  pulse  is  met  with  iii  many  in- 
stances of  continued  fever ,  typhus  or  typhoid. 

Slowness  of  the  capillary  circulation  is 
occasionally  shown,  in  morbid  states,  by  the 
tardy  return  of  the  blood  when  displaced  by 
pressure,  as  on  the  back  of  the  hand  or  the 
cheek.  In  the  veins,  likewise,  this  is  notably 
seen  in  the  collapse  of  cholera. 

Hemorrhage. 

While  bleeding  from  any  part  of  the 
body  is  often  an  important  symptom,  it 
needs  to  be  interpreted  with  care.     Its  con- 


257 


sequence  depends  greatly  on  its  quantity  and 
the  source  from  which  the  blood  comes. 

Thus,  in  bleeding  at  the  nose,  the  flow  of 
blood  may  possibly  result  from  either  of  the 
following  causes  :  a  severe  blow  ;  cojigestion 
(fullness  of  blood)  simply  in  the  membranes 
of  the  nose  ;  congestion  of  the  brain  (to  which 
the  bleeding  may  give  advantageous  relief)  ; 
early  stage  of  typhoid  fever  ;  suppressed  men-, 
struation  (monthly  discharge)  of  which  it  is 
an  alternative . 

Spitting  of  blood  may  come  from  hem- 
orrhage of  the  gums,  the  back  of  the  nostrils, 
throat,  windpipe  (bronchial  tubes),  lungs,  or 
stomach. 

If  from  the  stomach,  it  is  preceded  by 
nausea,  and  is  vo7nited.  When  from  the 
lungs  or  bronchial  tubes,  it  is  coughed  up 
instead. 

Hemorrhage  from  the  lungs  {licemop- 
tysis)  may  depend  upon  congestion  (over- 
fulness  of  blood)  of  the  lungs  ;  heart  disease, 
tubercular  cons2imptio7i,  suppressed  menstrua- 
tio?i,  of  which  it  may,  occasionally,  be  an 
alternative  or  substitute ;  an  injury,  as  a 
broken  rib,  wound  of  the  lung,  etc.  ;  rupture 
of  an  aneurism  of  the  aorta. 

Vomiting  op  Blood  may  be  one  of  the 
symptoms  occurring  in  hysterical  women  ;  or 
it  may  result  from  ulcer,  or  cancer  of  the 
stomach  ;  or  it  may  be  (as  above)  substitutive 
or  vicarious  of  absent  menstruation. 

Uterine  hemorrhage  (other  than  the 
natural  monthly  flow)  may  come  from  con- 
gestion of  the  womb,  or  its  tilceration,  or 
cancer.  During  pregnancy  it  threatens  mis- 
carriage, or  results  from  misplacement  of  the 
placenta  (after-birth). 

Hemorrhage  from  the  bowels  may  be  con- 
nected ^i'Ca.  piles  (hemorrhoids),  dyse^itery, 
ulceration  of  the  bowels,  cancer,  ruptiLre  of 
an  abdoi7tinal  a7ieurism,  typhoid,  77ialarial, 
or  yellow  fever ,  or  vicairous  menstrziatio7i. 

HiEMATURiA  (bloody  urine)  may  follow 
a  mechanical  injury,  i7ifla77i77iatio7i  of  the 
kidneys,  sto7ie  in  the  bladder,  or  a  bad  state 
of  things  in  cases  oi  scar  let  fever . 

Symptoms  Connected  with  the  Breathing 
Organs. 

Sixteen  to  eighteen  times  in  a  minute  is 
the  ordinary  rate  of  breathing  while  at  rest, 
in  health,  for  a  grown  person.     \Vi  fever  it  is 


14 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


almost  always  a  good  deal  faster  than  this  ; 
often  thirty,  forty,  or  more  respirations  in  a 
minute.  When  a  person  is  poisoned  with 
opitun,  the  breathing  becomes  s7ioring,  and 
very  slow,  even  only  six  times  or  less  in  a 
minute  in  heavy  narcotism.  Apoplexy,  and 
pressure  upon  the  brain  from  a  piece  of  a 
broken  skull,  are  also  attended  by  slow, 
snoring  respiration. 

Difficulty  of  Breathing  may  be  caus- 
ed by  irrespirable  gases  (as  chlorine,  etc.)  in 
the  air  ;  obstruction  in  the  air- tubes,  as  from 
croup,  asthma,  or  bronchitis  ;  disease  of  the 
lungs  or  pleura,  as  in  pneumonia,  consump- 
tion, or  pleurisy  ;  disease  of  the  heart  or 
aorta  ;  abdominal  drops5^  pressing  upwards. 

Coughing,  also,  may  have  a  variety  of 
causes,  of  the  nature  of  which  we  may  often 
judge  by  its  character.  Thus  it  is,  com- 
monly, dry  and  tight,  in  early  bronchitis  ; 
soft,  deep,  and  loose,  in  advanced  bronchitis  ; 
hacking,  in  the  beginning  of  consumption  ; 
deep  and  distressing,  in  advanced  consump- 
tion ;  short  and  sharp,  in  pneumonia  ;  hoarse 
and  barking,  in  an  early  stage  of  croup  ; 
whistling,  in  advanced  membranous  croup  ; 
paroxysmal  (in  spells)  and  whooping,  in 
whooping-cough  ;  dry  and  hollow,  when 
sympathetic  or  nervous. 

Expectoration  is  white,  thin,  and  mu- 
cous, in  catarrh  and  early  bronchitis  ;  yellow 
and  thick  {p7irulent)  in  severe  and  protracted 
bronchitis  ;  rusty,  in  the  middle  stage  of 
pneumonia ;  bloody,  thick,  and  yellow,  in  de- 
veloping consumption  (phthisis)  ;  in  heavy, 
round, 'small  yellowish,  lumps,  in  advaticed 
consumption  ;  putrid  (rotten) ,  in  gangrene 
of  the  lung. 

The  Breath  is  hot,  during  fever  ;  cold,  in 
the  collapse  of  cholera.  The  odor  of  the 
breath  is  seldom  perfectly  agreeable  except 
in  a  healthy  child.  Bad  teeth  and  imperfect 
digestion  are  common  causes  of  unpleasant- 
ness in  it.  It  is  very  heavy  at  the  com- 
mencement of  2i  fever ;  sour,  during  an  attack 
of  indigestio7i ;  rotten,  in  gangrene  of  the 
lung. 

Hiccough  is  produced  by  a  spasm  of  the 
diaphragm,  at  the  floor  of  the  chest.  It  may 
depend  upon  indigestioyi,  7iervous  disorder, 
or  great  exhaustio7i.  In  the  last  of  these,  it 
is  generally  a  decidedly  bad  symptom. 

Snoring  (stertorus),  respiration  results 


from  oppression  oj  the  brain  ;  the  cause  of 
which  may  be  either  apoplexy ,  fracture  of  the 
skull,  dead  drunkemiess,  or  7iarcotis7?t  by 
opiu77i.  (Of  course  we  do  not  forget  that 
some  persons  snore  tremendously  during 
their  natural  and  healthy  sleep.) 

Symptoms  Affecting  the  fluscles. 

Position  is  often  significant  in  disease. 
Inability  to  rise  may  be  owing  to  ge7ieral 
weak7iess,  palsy,  i7ifla77imatio)i  of  the  joints, 
etc.)  as  from  rheiwiatism  or  gout),  or  an  in- 
jury, such  as  a  broken  thigh  or  leg. 

Inability  to  lie  down  is  generally  the 
result  of  difficulty  of  breathi7ig  (dyspncEa), 
which  doctors  then  call  orthopnoea,  or 
straight-tip  breathing. 

In  Colic,  the  patient  usually  prefers  to  lie 
upon  the  breast. 

In  Peritonitis,  the  chosen  position  is 
on  the  back,  with  the  knees  drawn  up. 

In  the  early  stage  of  Pleurisy,  the  patient 
lies  of  choice  on  the  side  not  affected  ;  after 
water  collects  (effusion)  this  is  reversed. 
When  the  liver  is  c7ilarged  from  disease,  the 
right  side  is  mostly  preferred.  When  the 
heart  is  much  disturbed  in  its  action,  the 
sufferer  generally  cannot  lie  on  the  left  side. 
Exceptions  occur  in  heart  disease,  especially 
of  long  duration. 

In  Aneurism  of  the  Aorta,  a  favorite 
position  is  sitting  up  and  leaning  over  the 
back  of  a  chair,  or  the  edge  of  a  bed. 

Muscular  weakness  may  result  from 
acute  disease,  as  fever,  or  from  exhaustion. 
Entire  want  of  exercise  weakens  the  muscles. 
When  an  arm  or  a  leg  has  been  long  fastened 
up  in  splints  on  account  of  a  fracture,  its 
muscles  are  almost  powerless  upon  first  be- 
ing taken  out  of  their  confinement. 

Spasm  may  be  of  either  of  three  kinds  ; 
fixed,  or  to7iics^asxn.,  as  in  lock-jaw  (tetanus) ; 
7-egularly  jerking,  or  clo7iic,  as  in  fits  or  con- 
vulsio7is;  an  irregularly  jerking,  as  in  St. 
Vitus'  dance  or  chorea.  Cra7np  is  a  short- 
timed  to7iic  spasm. 

Tremor  (trembling)  is  of  two  kinds  ; 
co7ista7it  trembling,  as  in  shaki7ig  palsy  {par- 
alysis agitans),  and  tremor  only  when  doing 
something,  as  in  one  form  of  disease  of  the 
brain  and  spinal  marrow: 

Rigidity  of  muscles  is  different  from 
mere  spasmodic  contraction.     It  occurs  in 


258 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


15 


certain  severe  and  continued  cases  of  palsy 
(paralysis) . 

Jerking  of  the  tendons,  especially  at  the 
wrists,  is  met  with  in  low  states  of  continued 
fever,  typhoid  or  typhus. 

Symptoms  Connected  with  our  Senses. 

Pain  is  variously  interpreted,  according 
to  its  place  and  character.     It  may  be 

Acute,  sharp,  cutting,  as  in  pleurisy ; 
shooting,  darting,  as  in  neuralgia  ;  piercing 
(lancinating),  in  cancer;  gnawing,  tearing, 
in  rheumatism  ;  dull,  heavy,  aching,  as  in 
pneumonia  ;  griping,  twisting,  in  dysentery  ; 
bearing  down ,  in  second  stage  of  labor  ;  pul- 
sating, in  the  formation  of  an  abscess  ;  burn- 
ing, smarting,  in  erysipelas  ;  stinging,  nett- 
ling, in  urticaria  (nettle-rash)  ;  constant,  or 
intermittent ;  fixed  or  wandering. 

Tenderness  on  pressure  is  generally  a 
sign  of  inflammation,  although  some  neu- 
ralgic cases  have  it ;  possibly  from  inflam- 
mation of  the  sheaths  of  the  nerves.  Tired 
muscles  also  are  often  sore  to  the  touch  as 
well  as  on  motion. 

Sometimes  pain  is  relieved  by  pressure  ; 
this  is  often  the  case  with  colic.  In  such  in- 
stances we  conclude  that  there  is  no  inflam- 
mation. 

Pain  is  not  always  at  the  place  of  disease. 
In  disease  of  the  hipfoint,  the  principal  pain 
is  at  the  knee  ;,in  dyspepsia,  often,  over  the 
middle  of  the  breast ;  when  the  liver  is  dis- 
ordered-, under  the  right  shoulder-blade  ;  in 
irritation  of  the  womb  at  the  top  of  the  head. 

lyOSS  OF  sensation  (ancesthesia) ,  occur- 
ring from  disease,  constitutes  one  kind  of 
paralysis.  The  other  form  is  loss  of  power 
to  move  the  limbs  or  parts  affected.  When 
paralysis  involves  one  side  of  the  body  only, 
as  the  right  arm  and  leg,  or  the  left  arm  and 
leg,  we  call  it  hemiplegia.  Paraplegia  is  palsy 
of  both  legs  at  the  same  time. 

The  Eye  in  Disease. 

Blood-shot  eyes  show  either  inflamma- 
tion of  them  or  fulness  of  blood  in  the  head, 
which  is  often  present  in  fevers.  If  one  eye 
only  is  very  red,  of  course  the  trouble  must 
be  in  itself.  Yellowness  of  the  "whites  "  of 
the  eyes  occurs  in  bilious  disorder. 

The  eyelids  are  notably  prominent  in 
that  curious  and  rather  uncommon    disorder 


called  "  exophthalmic  goitre."  Prominence 
or  bulging  of  one  eye  only  shows  a  prob- 
ability of  disease,  as  a  tumor,  behind  that 
eye. 

Sinking  of  the  eyeballs  in  their  sockets 
is  seen  to  some  extent  in  consumption  and 
other  wasting  diseases.  Sinking  of  one  eye 
must  result  from  wasting  of  its  own  sub- 
stance or  of  the  socket  behind  it,  the  former^ 
being  often  observed  in  the  blind. 

Rolling  of  the  eyes  from  side  to  side  is 
common  in  great  nervous  restlessness  of  in- 
fants or  young  children. 

Squinting,  which  is  natural  with  some, 
and  an  acquired  habit  with  others,  becomes 
a  serious  symptom  when  it  occurs  as  the  re- 
sult of  disease  of  the  brain . 

The  lustre  of  the  eyes  grows  dull  often  a 
short  time,  perhaps  a  few  hours,  before 
death.  Bright  eyes  are  commonly  noticed 
in  advancing  consumption.  They  may 
glare  in  ma7iia  (insanity),  or,  for  a  time,  in 
acute  inflammation  of  the  brain. 

Very  small  pupils  of  the  eyes  are  seen 
when  either  they  are,  or  the  brain  is,  the  seat 
of  inflammation.  In  opium- poisoning  the 
pupils  are  contracted,  at  least  until  very 
near  death.  They  are  large  (dilated),  com- 
monly, in  apoplexy,  water  on  the  brain  (hy- 
drocephalus), and  poisoning  by  prussic  acid 
or  by  Jamestown  weed  {stram,oniuin)  or 
belladonna . 

Great  shrinking  from  light  {photophobia^ 
exists  in  severe  inflammation  of  the  eyes, 
and  also  in  acute  inflammation  of  the  brain . 

Spots,  rings,  etc.,  floating  before  the 
sight  {musccz  volitantes)  show  the  presence 
of  opaque  particles  in  the  interior  of  the 
eyeball  (vitreous  humor'),  which  are  not  of 
much  importance.  Fixed  dark  spots  are  of 
more  consequence ;  they  often  show  a  be- 
ginning of  blindness. 

The  Ears. 

Pain  in  one  of  the  ears,  earache,  may  be 
either  i7iflammatorv  or  ne7iralgic.  Other 
signs  must  be  considered  along  with  it  to 
show  which  it  is. 

Ringing  in  the  ears  occurs  from  either 
of  at  least  two  or  three  causes,  to  distinguish 
between  which  is  not  always  easy.  L<arge 
doses  of  quinine,  and  of  one  or  two  other 
powerful  medicines,  will  make  many  people's 


259 


i6 


THE  FA  MIL  Y  DOCTOR 


ear  ring  or  roar.  Disease  of  the  ear  will 
often  produce  this  symptom,  even  when  the 
disease  is  not  severe  at  the  time.  In  other 
instances,  brain  exhaustio7i,  or  coiigestion 
(overfulness  of  blood)  of  the  brain,  may- 
give  rise  to  it.  If  it  be  heard  only  in  one 
ear,  we  may  be  confident  that  the  cause  is  in 
that  ear  itself. 

Deafness,  or  hardness  of  hearing,  in 
various  degrees,  may  proceed  from  cold  in 
the  head,  very  large  doses  of  quinine,  typhus 
or  typhoid  fever,  wax  accumulated  in  the 
ears,  disease  or  injury  of  the  ears,  brain 
disease. 

Headache. 

Pain  in  the  head  may  depend  in  different 
cases  upon  neuralgia,  rheumatism,  overful- 
ness of  blood  {coyigestion  hypercsmia);  blood- 
poisoning  (as  by  alcohol,  opium,  etc.);  fever 
(remittent,  typhoid,  etc.)  ;  disease  of  the 
brain,  sympathetic  irritation  (as  with  uterine 
disorder,  etc.). 

Skill  as  well  as  care  may  often  be  neces- 
sary to  make  out,  in  an  actual  case,  to 
which  of  these  a  headache  belongs.  Neu- 
ralgic headache  is  nearly  always  on  one  side 
only  or  chiefly,  and  extends  to  the  fece  also  ; 
it  is  shooting  or  darting,  and  there  is  with  it 
some  tender7iess  on  pressure.  Rheuviatisvi  of 
the  scalp  is  usually  accompanied  by  stiffness 
of  the  muscles  that  move  the  head  and  neck. 
Headache  from  fulness  of  blood  or  fever  is 
attended  by  heat  of  the  head ;  the  pain  is 
then  apt  to  be  throbbing  in  character.  Pain 
from  disease  of  the  braiyi  is  generally  in  one 
spot,  either  fixed  or  in  spells  (periodic  or 
paroxysmal)  ;  and  some  other  sign  of  brain 
disease  is  also  present  with  it. 

Expression  of  the  Face. 

Acute  disease  is  apt  to  alter  this  more 
than  that  which  is  chronic  ;  but  it  is  often 
changed  in  both.  An  anxious  or  distressed 
expression  giving  way  to  serenity  is  always 
a  good  sign,  unless  it  be  the  result  of  viorti- 
ficaiion  or  palsy  coming  on. 

Great  anxiety  is  seen  especially  in 
organic  diseases  of  the  heart,  and  in  acute 
disorders  of  the  abdome7i,  as  well  as  in 
melancholy. 

Terror  belongs  habitually  to  delirium 
tremens,  also  called  mania-a-potu ,  or  the 
horrors. 


Rage  is  now  and  then  seen  in  insanitj^ 
and  in  some,  not  all,  cases  of  hydrophobia. 

Insane  persons,  although  not  always 
very  peculiar  in  countenance,  have  mostly 
an  expression  by  which  their  derangement 
can  be  recognized  by  those  accustomed  to 
observing  it. 

Collapse,  that  is,  extreme  prostration, 
as  from  the  shock  of  a  railroad  accident,  an 
attack  of  cholera,  or  the  dying  state  from 
any  cause,  has  its  own  characteristic  ex- 
pression, more  easily  understood  when  seen 
than  described.  Shrunken  cheeks,  pale  or 
livid,  with  mouth  drawn  down  at  the  cor- 
ners, and  white,  glassy  eyes  ;  these  with 
clammy  coldness  to  the  touch,  gasping  res- 
piration, and  a  thready  or  absent  pulse  at 
the  wrist,  mark  this  condition. 

Delirium. 

This  is  a  disorder  or  confusion  of  mind, 
in  acute  disease,  not  fixed  for  a  long  time 
like  insanity,  but  depending  upon  a  tempor- 
ary cause.  It  is  present  in  many  attacks  of 
maladies  attended  by  fever  ;  as  severe  remit- 
tent, typhus,  typhoid,  scarlet,  or  yellow 
fever,  etc.  A  few  persons  are  liable  to  tran- 
sient delirium  during  almost  any  brief  at- 
tack of  illness.  Mania-a-potu,  as  already 
said,  has  a  characteristic  delirium,  in  which, 
almost  always,  there  is  extreme  terror,  from 
imaginary  enemies  or  dangers  of  some  kind. 
Grown  people  are  affected  by  delirium 
usually  under  circumstances  which,  in  a 
child,  would  bring  on  convulsions. 

Stupor. 

Coma  is  the  medical  word  for  this.  It  is 
an  unnaturally  deep  sleep,  from  which  one 
cannot  be  roused.  We  meet  with  it  chiefly 
in  the  following :  Alcoholic  drunkenness 
('dead  drunk");  opium-poisoning  (nar- 
cotism) ;  apoplexy  ;  very  low  typhus  fever  ; 
compression  of  the  brain  from  fractured 
skull. 

It  is  not  always  easy  to  say,  in  a  particu- 
lar case,  which  of  these  is  present. 

Intoxication  is  generally  shown  by  the 
odor  of  the  breath,  and  the  general  appear- 
ance of  the  patient,  and  his  behavior  before 
he  became  unconscious.  In  opium poisoyiing , 
the  pupils  of  the  eyes  are,  as  a  rule,  strongly 
contracted,  even  when  no  considerable 
60 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


17 


light  is  shining  on  them.  Typhus  fever 
is  known  by  the  history  of  the  case  ;  as, 
in  it,  complete  stupor  is  never  the  con- 
dition at  the  very  beginning  of  the  iUness. 
A  broken  skull,  if  not  obviously  accounted 
for  by  a  known  injury,  may  be  found  out  by 
careful  examination  of  the  head. 

Dizziness  (giddiness,  vertigo)  is  ac- 
counted for  in  different  instances  by  either 
of  four  causes  :  mere  weakness ;  disorder  of 
the  liver  (biliousness,)  and  stomach  ;  disease 
of  the  internal  ear ;  disease  of  the  bj'-ain. 
The  last  of  these  is  the  least  common,  un- 
less in  persons  over  sixty  years  of  age. 

lyOSS  OF  SPEECH  {aphasia),  or  getting  the 
wrong  words  instead  of  those  intended, 
comes  from  a  disorder  of  the  brain.  It  is 
often  accompanied  by  loss  of  power,  especi- 
ally in  the  right  arm  and  leg.  Loss  of  voice 
{aphonia)  is  another  thing  ;  resulting  from 
thickening  of  the  lining  membrane  of  the 
windpipe  {larynx),  or  paralysis  of  its 
muscles  ;  or,  in  the  dying  or  nearly  dying 
state,  extreme  debility. 

Symptoms  Affecting  the  Secretions  : 
The  Bowels. 

Constipation  (tightness  of  the  bowels  ; 
absence  or  rarity  of  movement,  and  small- 
ness  of  amount  discharged)  is  almost  always 
present  during  the  first  days  of  a  fever,  of 
any  kind  except  typhoid.  Kven  in  that,  also, 
although  early  looseness  of  the  bowels  is 
more  common,  there  is  in  a  few  cases  a 
short  time  of  constipation. 

Pregnant  women  are  very  apt  to  have 
the  bowels  constipated,  from  the  partial  ob- 
struction produced  by  the  pressure  of  the 
enlarging  uterus  upon  the  lower  bowel 
{rectum).  Sea-sickness,  also,  is  very  often 
attended  by  slowness  of  the  bowels.  But 
the  most  obstinate  and  alarming  constipa- 
tion is  that  of  obstruction  of  the  boweis  ;  as 
in  strangulated  rupture,  or  in  intussusception. 

DiARRHCEA  (excessive  liquid  flow  from 
the  bowels)  is  symptomatic  of  various 
disordered  conditions.  It  is  present  as  a 
rule  in  typhoid  fever,  and  is  common  in  ad- 
vanced pulmonary  cojisumption .  It  is  an 
essential  part  of  the  attack  in  cholera-morbus , 
epidemic  cholera,  and  cholera  iiifantiim  {swav- 
mer  complaint  of  infants).     It  occurs  fre- 


3J  K 


quently  by  itself,  particularly  in  warm  clim- 
ates, and  in  the  summer  season. 

Discharges  in  diarrhoea  are  either  natural 
(fecal),  mucous  (slimy),  bilious,  or  watery. 
In  cholera-mo7-bus ,  which  may  be  met  with 
anywhere,  the  passages  are  nearly  natural  or 
bilious,  unless  near  the  end  of  a  very  bad 
case.  Epidemic  cholera  is  distinguishable 
partly  by  the  rice-water- like  abundant  dis- 
charges, with  no  biliary  color  at  all. 

Dysentery  is  recognized  by  scanty  but 
frequent  bloody  discharges,  with  griping 
pai7is,  and  a  disposition  to  bear  down.  Slime 
{mucus)  is  apt  to  be  mingled  with  blood, 
and  at  a  later  period  in  severe  cases  there 
may  be  pus. 

Excretion  of  the  Kidneys. 

Symptoms  connected  with  this  excretion 
are  :  strangury  (difficult  urination),  incon- 
tinence of  urine  (want  of  control,  especially 
during  sleep),  retention,  suppression,  and 
excess  of  the  secretion  {diabetes),  and  un- 
healthy character  of  the  urine  passed. 

Strangury  sometimes  follows  the  appli- 
cation of  a  fly  {cantharides)  blister.  Now 
and  then  it  is  observed  in  children  from  the 
irritation  of  seat-worms  in  the  lower  bowel ; 
and  in  young  infants,  owing  to  an  irritating 
quality  of  the  urine  ;  which,  in  such  a  case, 
is  pretty  sure  to  be  scanty  and  high  colored. 

Nightly  incontinence  of  urine  is  quite 
common  in  children,  sometimes  up  to  their 
"  teens."  Dribbling  while  awake  shows  a 
much  greater  loss  of  power  over  the  blad- 
der. This  is  seen  in  many  cases  of  injury  or 
serious  disease  of  the  spinal  marrow. 

Retention  of  urine  may  be  a  very  dis- 
tressing symptom.  Men  suffer  it  who  have 
' '  stricture  ' '  of  the  urethra  (outlet  tube  from 
the  bladder) .  Nervous  disturbance  may  caus^^ 
it  in  either  sex,  but  especially  often  in  hys- 
terical women.  After  child-birth  it  follows 
pressure  upon  the  neck  of  the  bladder.  In 
low  fevers,  as  typhus  or  typhoid,  it  results 
from  general  debility .  Its  probability  should 
always  be  remembered  in  such  cases,  as  the 
patient  may  be  ' '  out  of  his  mind  ' '  and  so 
may  give  no  account  of  it.  We  should  make 
sure,  in  a  fever  case  (or,  indeed,  in  any  other 
illness),  how  77iuch  and  how  ofte7i  water  is 
passed.  If  the  quantity  is  certainly  small, 
it  is  necessary  to  examine  the  abdomen  as 


261 


I8 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


its  lowest  part,  over  the  bladder.  When 
urine  is  retained,  there  will  be  a  firm  swell- 
ing at  the  lowest  part  of  the  belly,  just  in 
front,  above  the  bony  ridge  of  the  pelvis  ; 
and,  on  tapping  there  with  a  finger,  a  dull 
sound  will  be  made.  If  the  bladder  be 
empty,  the  sound  will  be  rather  hollow. 

In  some  cases  of  spine  disease,  there  is  re- 
tention instead  of  incontinence  of  urine. 
This  symptom,  however  produced,  often 
calls  for  relief  by  the  use  of  a  tube  introduced 
through  the  urethra  into  the  bladder,  called 
a  catheter.  It  is  short  and  almost  straight  for 
the  female ;  longer  and  curved  (if  of  metal 
or  firm  rubber)  for  the  male  subject. 

Suppression  of  urine  is  always  a  bad 
sign,  in  any  case  of  disease.  It  is  sometimes 
met  with  in  low  fevers,  epidemic  cholera, 
bad  cases  of  scarlet  fever,  and  long  standing 
cases  of  disease  of  the  kidneys.  Urcemia 
(blood  poisoning  with  materials  of  urine) 
follows  it,  and  usually  ends  life  in  a  few 
days  at  most. 

Excess  of  urinary  discharge  is  called  by 
physicians  diabetes.  It  occurs  not  unfre- 
quently,  for  a  time,  after  checking  of  per- 
spiration by  exposure  to  cold  and  with  hy- 
sterical or  other  nervous  persons. 

Qualities  of  the  Urine. 

About  forty,  or  from  thirty  to  fifty,  fluid 
ounces  (a  quart,  more  or  less)  of  urine  is 
passed  by  a  healthy  grown  person  every 
twenty -four  hours.  It  may  be  retained 
longer  in  the  female  than  in  the  male  blad- 
der, but  not  many  hours  commonly  in 
either.  More  is  passed,  and  more  fre- 
quently,   during   winter   than    in    summer. 

The  color  of  healthy  urine  is  that  of  am- 
ber. It  should  be  clear  when  passed,  and 
should  have  very  little  settling  at  the  bottom, 
even  after  standing  for  some  hours.  Yet 
some  change  in  color,  lighter  or  darker,  or 
variations  in  quantity,  and  even  deposit  of 
sediment,  may  take  place  while  the  person 
continues  in  health.  Such  alterations  often 
show  the  successful  relief  of  the  system ,  by 
excretion,  of  what,  if  not  carried  oflF,  might 
have  caused  disease.  Great  a7id  continued 
alterations  in  the  urine,  however,  are  impor- 
tant signs  of  something  being  wrong;  and, 
under  skilful  examination,  the  nature  of  the 
disease  may  thus  be  found  out.     For  this 

26 


kind  of  inquiry  the  skill  of  the  physician, 
trained  in  the  use  of  chemical  tests  and  the 
microscope,  will  be  required. 

GraveIv  is  the  term  applied  to  small 
stony  particles  which  are  formed  in  the  kid- 
neys from  disease,  and  pass,  first  along  the 
ureters  to  the  bladder,  and  thence  out 
through  the  tcrethra  with  the  flow  of  urine. 
Pain,  sometimes  very  severe,  may  attend 
both  of  these  short  journeys  of  particles,  if 
they  be  large.  Often,  they  are  more  like 
sand  than  gravel,  and  escape  without  giv- 
ing pain,  except  that  both  the  kidneys  and 
bladder  are  apt  to  be  in  a  state  of  irritation 
at  the  time  of  an  "  attack  of  gravel." 

Stone  in  the  bladder  is  of  the  same  na- 
ture, only  the  particles  accumulate  into  one 
or  more  masses,  which  may  become  very 
large,  and  cause  great  suffering  ;  not  seldom, 
unless  removed  by  an  operation,  shortening 
life. 

Gai,!,- Stones  are  formed  by  thickening 
of  bile  in  the  gall  bladder,  which  lies  under 
the  liver,  on  the  right  side,  near  the  middle  of 
the  body.  Although  the  gall-duct,  through 
which  such  stones  pass  to  the  small  intes- 
tine, is  short,  a  large  gall-stone  (biliary  cal- 
culus) sometimes  gives  extreme  pain  in  its 
passage.  Complete  relief  comes  when  it 
enters  the  small  intestine  {duodenum)  ;  as  is 
the  case  likewise  when  a  gravel-sto?ie  escapes 
from  the  ureter  into  the  bladder. 

Perspiration. 

Besides  deficiency  and  excess  in  this  im- 
portant secretion  of  the  skin,  it  is  a  familiar 
fact  that  it  has,  in  some  persons,  a  very 
unpleasant  odor,  especially  in  the  arm- 
pits and  about  the  feet.  Perhaps  this  is 
somewhat  most  manifest  in  the  African  and 
other  tropical  races,  but  much  depends  on 
individual  constitution  and  cleanliness.  A 
few  persons,  with  all  possible  care  of  their 
skins,  still  have  a  considerable  odor,  at  least 
in  warm  weather.  For  such  it  is  important 
to  bathe  frequently,  applying  good  soap  and 
water  daily  to  their  armpits  and  feet ;  and 
also  to  keep  their  bowels  regularly  and  suf- 
ficiently open. 

In  small-pox,  typhus  fever,  and  some 
other  diseases,  an  odor  peculiar  to  each  is 
given  off  (in  some  cases  at  least)  from  the 
bod] 


99 


REMEDIES  AND  THEIR  APPLICATION 


Do  doctors,  properly  speaking,  cure  the 
diseases  and  injuries  of  their  patients  ? 
Yes,  and  no.  Cure  comes  from  a  I^atin 
word  meaning  care  ;  to  iake  care  of  some- 
thing or  somebody.  That  a  good  physician 
will  always  do.  Sometimes,  also,  he  may 
and  must  actually  interfere  with  what  is 
going  on  ;  as  when  he  gives  an  antidote  for 
a  poison,  and  so  saves  life  that  would  other- 
wise be  lost.  But,  in  many  other  instances, 
he  simply  takes  care  of  the  patient,  and 
Nature  cures,  in  the  full  sense  of  that  word. 
There  is,  as  we  are  created,  a  tendency  to  get 
well.  A  bone,  for  example,  is  broken. 
What  does  the  surgeon  do  ?  He  draws  it 
out  straight,  gets  the  pieces,  into  their 
proper  line,  and  puts  on  splints  to  keep  them 
there.  Then  the  bone  knits,  in  a  few  weeks, 
of  itself.  So  also  with  the  healing  of  a 
wound.  Its  edges  are  placed  and  kept 
close  together,  if  that  can  be  done,  till  they 
unite  again  ;  or,  if  that  be  not  possible,  the 
wounded  surface  is  covered  with  something 
which  can  do  no  harm,  and  which  protects 
the  part  from  outside  air  and  other  things, 
until  it  heals,  of  itself. 

Here  we  see  that  certain  conditions  are 
wanted  in  each  case,  in  order  that  the  knit- 
ting or  healing  will  take  place.  So  it  is 
with  diseases,  as  well  as  with  injuries. 
Some  disorders  are  naturally  self-limited  ; 
that  is,  they  will,  if  the  patient  lives  for  a 
certain  time,  get  well  of  themselves  ;  they 
run  a  tolerably  regular  course,  and  then 
end.  Scarlet  fever  either  kills  or  is  passing 
off,  generally,  within  eight,  nine,  or  ten 
days  ;  small-pox  runs  its  course,  living  or 
dying,  within  about  three  weeks ;  typhus 
fever,  in  four  weeks  ;  typhoid  fever,  in  the 
same  or  a  longer  time  ;  and  so  with  other 
fevers,  all  of  which  are  self-limited. 

There  will  always  be  need  of  doctors, 
and  of  skilful,  well-trained,  and  well- 
informed  ones,  too,  however  highly  we  may 
appreciate  the  powers  of  nature  and  the 
value  of  good  nursing.  It  is  important  to 
be  sure  that  by  their  timely  and  well-judged 
use  even  of  simple  measures,  death  may 
often  be  averted  or  long  postponed  ;  suffer- 
ing may  be  much  lessened,   and  recovery 


may  be  hastened  from  diseases  which  other- 
wise would  be  of  very  uncertaia  and  far-off 
result. 

lyooking  at  remedies  from  our  present 
standpoint,  we  may  classify  their  objects  as 
follows.  Whatever  their  nature,  they  are 
used  for  one  or  more  of  the  following  pur- 
poses ; 

To  relieve  pain ; 

To  compose  nervous  disturbance ; 

To  promote  sleep ; 

To  open  the  bowels  ; 

To  check  diarrhcea  ; 

To  ease  vomiting  or  sickness  of  stomach  ; 

To  allay  indigestion ; 

To  improve  weak  digestion ; 

To  reduce  inflammation ; 

To  lower  fever ; 

To  ease  or  quiet  cough  ; 

To  stop  hemorrhage ; 

To  regulate  menstruation ; 

To  relieve  dropsical  swelling ; 

To  support  the  system  under  prostration 
or  exhaustion ; 

To  increase  strength  in  prolonged  de- 
bility ; 

To  cure  certain  diseases  by  special 
remedies ; 

To  expel  worms ; 

To  antidote  poisons ; 

To  obviate  the  danger  and  suffering  of 
accidents  or  injuries. 

A  full  consideration  of  all  the  articles 
and  procedures  that  are  or  may  be  used 
under  advice  of  physicians  for  these  differ- 
ent purposes,  would  make  a  work  on 
"Materia  Medica  and  Therapeutics."  Our 
present  aim  will  be  to  give  a  simple  general 
view  of  the  subject,  and  to  dwell  on  such 
remedies  as  are  safe  and  available  in  Home 
Medicine. 

To  Relieve  Pain. 

Much  depends  on  where  the  pain  is,  and 
of  what  sort.  Annodynes  are  medicines 
whose  action  is  to  quell  pain,  by  their  influ- 
ence upon  the  brain  or  nerves.  But  we  do 
not  nearly  always  have  to  resort  to  these  on 
account  of  pain,  especially  when  it  first 
begi?is  to  be  felt. 


263 


90 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


To  Relieve   Pain. 

Of  all  parts  of  the  body,  probably  the  ab- 
domen is  the  most  frequent  seat  of  pain. 
"Stomach-ache"  and  "colic"  are  very 
common.  The  most  general  cause  of  such 
attacks  is  indigestion^  yvith.  flat ide^ice  (wind 
in  the  stomach  and  bowels).  To  make  the 
Tuuscular  coat  of  the  stomach  and  intestines 
contract  actively  and  evenly,  all  along  their 
length,  will,  at  least  if  done  early,  be  pretty 
sure  to  give  relief.  For  this  purpose  we 
give  warm  and  gentle  stimulants  to  the 
stomach,  as  essence  of  peppermint,  essence 
of  ginger,  or  some  other  aromatic  (spicy) 
medicine. 

But  a  frequent  cause  of  irritative  pain  in 
the  stomach  or  bowels  is  the  presence  of 
acid  from  indigestion.  Against  this  we 
have  what  are  called  antacids,  because  they 
neutralize  acids  by  combining  with  them. 
Such  are  lime-water^  soda,  and  inag7iesia. 
Often  there  is  great  advantage,  in  cases  of 
colicky  pain,  in  adding  one  of  these  to  an 
aromatic. 

Further,  the  bowels  are  often  cojistipatcd 
under  the  same  circumstances,  and  this 
makes  matters  worse.  It  is  of  much  import- 
ance then  to  viove  the  bowels,  by  purgatives, 
or,  as  the  milder  ones  are  called,  laxatives. 
Magnesia  is  one  of  these,  being  also,  as 
above  said,  an  antacid,  thus  having  a  double 
advantage.  Rhubarb  is  another  ;  it  is  com- 
bined with  aromatics  in  Spiced  Syrup  of  Rhu- 
barb, an  excellent  preparation,  especially 
for  children,  and  as  a  77iixing  liquid  or 
' '  vehicle  ' '  for  other  stronger  and  more  un- 
pleasant medicines.  Another,  often  good  in 
colic,  though  nasty,  is  castor-oil. 

Remedy  for  Pain  in  Abdomen. 

A  safe  and  often  very  useful  remedy  for 
pain  in  the  abdomen,  or,  indeed,  anywhere 
else,  is  the  outward  application  of  a  mustard- 
plaster.  When  doubtful  what  else  to  do, 
try  that.  Properly  used,  it  can  do  no  harm, 
and  will  most  probably  do  good,  often  a 
great  deal  of  good.  A  hot  piece  of  flannel 
laid  over  the  belly  will  sometimes  be  almost 
as  useful  as  a  mustard-plaster. 

Colicky  pain  may  be  lessened  by  firm 
pressure  on  both  hip  bones,  near  their  front 
edge.  This  can  be  done  with  one's  own 
thumbs  and  fingers,  or  by  those  of  another. 


The  pressure  should  be  pretty  hard,  though 
steady  and  not  enough  to  hurt  of  itself. 

Gentle  pressure,  and  still  better  kneading 
the  bowels,  at  the  seat  of  pain  from  flatul- 
ence, will  often  help  to  scatter  the  wind  and 
promote  its  moving  and  passing  downwards, 
which  is  very  important  to  colic. 

Also,  rubbing  over  the  stomach  and 
back  with  a  hair-brush  or  clothes-brush,  as 
briskly  as  can  be  comfortably  borne,  will 
sometimes  do  a  wonderful  amount  of  good 
for  colicky  pains. 

If  such  palliative  means  as  those  just 
spoken  of,  as  arojnatics,  laxatives,  and  out- 
ward warming  applications,  do  not,  in  a 
reasonable  time,  show  signs  of  affording  re- 
lief of  severe  pain — we  may  have  to  obtain 
medical  advice,  or  in  its  absence  to  resort  to 
anodynes.  Of  these,  the  quickest  and  most 
effectual  are  those  made  from  opium ^  ^s^&cS.- 
2^y  laudanum  (tincture  of  opium).  A  much 
weaker  one  is  paregoric  (camphorated  tinc- 
ture of  opium).  Camphor  is,  in  the  form  of 
spirits  of  camphor,  both  an  aromatic  and  an 
anodyne;  in  the  latter  quality,  however, 
less  potent,  at  least  in  ordinary  doses,  than 
opium.  Both,  and  especially  opium,  re- 
quire great  care  in  their  use.  (Doses  of  all 
remedies  and  medicines  recommended,  will 
be  found  tabulated  in  a  later  part  of  this 
Dook). 

Pain  in  the  abdomen,  however,  by  no 
means  always  comes  from  indigestion  or 
colic.  It  may  possibly  be  the  beginning  of 
infla77imation  of  the  boivels,  or  of  dysentery  ; 
ol perito7iitis  ;  or  of  obstruction  of  the  bowels. 
It  may  be  seated  in  the  liver ;  in  the  kidneys 
(then  rather  in  the  back);  if  low  down,  in 
the  bladder ;  in  the  female,  in  the  ovaries  or 
woinb ;  or  there  may  be  an  aneurism  of  the 
aorta,  or  a  cancer ;  or  it  may  be  only  a  form 
of  jieuralgia.  For  each  of  these,  which  a 
good  deal  of  knowledge  may  be  needed  to 
ascertain,  a  different  kind  of  treatment  will 
be  called  for  ;  the  pain  being  only  one  of  the 
manifestations  of  disorder.  Therefore  any 
suspicion  of  so  serious  a  possibility  as  either 
of  these  (or  even  severe  or  obstinate  colic)  will 
be  a  proper  reason  for  promptly  obtaining 
the  advice  of  a  physician. 

For  the  relief  of  pain  in  the  side  or  chest, 
a  mustard-plaster  is  to  be  considered,  after 
trial   of  rubbing,  and  simple  heat  (by  a  hot 


264 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


21 


flannel,  hot  flat-iron,  bag  of  hot  salt  or  sand, 
or  a  tin  vessel  filled  with  hot  water)  the  first 
active  remedy.  So  much  here  depends  on 
the  origin  of  the  pain,  that  no  further  uni- 
form treatment  of  chest  or  side  pains  can  be 
advantageously  laid  down.  Pain  in  the 
chest  may  result  from  pleurisy,  pneumonia, 
neuralgia,  rheumatism,  heart- diseaes ,  aneur- 
ism, of  the  aorta,  etc.,  or  from  so  secondary 
a  cause  as  dyspepsia  ("heartburn,"  cardi- 
algia).  Each  of  these  requires  some  differ- 
ence of  management. 

Other  Seats  of  Pain. 

Pain  in  the  head  is  of  several  kinds,  and 
dependent  on  several  causes.  Very  seldom 
are  anodynes  suitable  as  remedies  for  head- 
ache, because  they  all  act  more  or  less 
powerfully  on  the  brain,  and  so,  may  do 
harm.  As  a  rule,  we  may  say,  never  take 
opiates  or  other  anodynes  for  headache,  un- 
less directly  under  medical  advice.  For 
' '  sick  headache, ' '  which  is  habitual  with  cer- 
tain persons,  and  then  very  hard  to  cure  or 
even  relieve,  the  most  frequently  useful 
remedy  is  a  dose  of  m,agnesia  or  aromatic 
spirit  of  ammonia.  When  an  aching  head 
is  hot,  we  are  safe  always  in  trying  to  cool 
it,  by  laying  upon  the  forehead  a  light 
handkerchief  wet  every  few  minutes  with 
cold  water.  A  neuralgic  headache  will  be 
more  likely  to  be  helped  by  application  of 
heat  to  the  part  affected.  Gentle  rubbing 
with  a  pencil  of  m.e7ithol,  such  as  is  now  sold 
by  druggists,  will  often  mitigate,  if  not  re- 
lieve, it. 

Pain  in  the  face  is  likely  to  be  ot  one  of 
three  kinds  :  toothache  in  a  decayed  tooth 
(or  more  than  one)  ;  inflanimatioyi  of  the 
jaw  ;  or  neuralgia.  For  the  first,  the  most 
certain  remedy  is,  to  apply  to  the  hollow  of 
the  aching  tooth  the  end  of  a  bodkin  or 
darning-needle,  around  which  is  wrapped  a 
little  bit  of  cotton  dipped  in  pure  creosote. 
'As  this  will  burn  the  lips  or  gums  if  it 
touches  them,  care  should  be  taken  to  have 
it  overflow  as  littie  as  possible  ;  and  a  glass 
of  cold  water  must  be  at  hand  to  rinse  the 
drop  or  two  away,  if  such  does  escape  into 
the  mouth.  If  the  creosote  reaches  the 
right  spot,  it  will  quell  the  pain  at  once. 
Oil  of  cloves,  used  in  the  same  way,  is  nearly 
as  effectual ;  and  rather  less  so  is  laudanum  - 


For  inflammation  of  the  jaw,  advice  had 
better  be  taken  at  once  from  a  dentist  or  a 
physician.  A  hot  poultice  of  flaxseed-meal, 
into  which  has  been  poured  a  teaspoonful 
of  laudanum,  may  be  safely  applied  to  the 
painful  side  of  the  face,  and  covered  with 
oiled  silk  (or  oiled  paper,  or  thin  sheet- 
rubber)  to  prevent  it  from  drying  up  and 
getting  cold  too  soon. 

Earache  is  most  common  in  young  child- 
ren. A  simple  first  remedy  for  it  is  a  drop 
of  zvarm  sweet  oil  poured  from  a  bottle  or  a 
teaspoon  into  the  ear.  If  that  fail  to  relieve, 
a  drop,  (or  in  a  child  two  or  three  years  old, 
two  drops)  of  laudanum  may  follow  it. 

Pain  in  the  joints  is  usually  called  rheu- 
matic;  although  this  word  is  not  always 
definitely  used.  When  there  is  no  swelling, 
or  heat  (signs  of  inflammation),  warm  ap- 
plications are  likely  to  do  good.  For  the 
pain  of  the  joints  in  inflammatory  rheuma- 
tism, the  most  relieving  thing  is  laudanum  ; 
laying  on  the  joint  a  bit  of  rag,  doubled  and 
wet  with  laudanum,  and  binding  over  it  a 
piece  of  oiled  silk.  It  will  not  do  to  put 
laudanum  in  this  way  over  too  many  parts 
at  once  ;  as  some  of  it  is  absorbed,  a  large 
amount  of  it  might  narcotize  the  patient. 

Neuralgic  pain  in  any  part  of  the  body 
is  generally  but  one  symptom  of  a  general 
condition,  depending  on  a  predisposition  of 
the  nervous  system  and  (in  most,  not  all 
cases)  poverty  of  the  blood. 

The  former,  being  constitutional,  is  to  be 
attended  to  by  all  the  ways  we  have  of 
favoring  the  general  improvement  of  health 
and  strength.  Poverty  of  blood  is  treated 
also  by  good  nourishing  food  and  iron.  For 
the  immediate  relief  of  attacks  of  neuralgia, 
many  tilings  are  helpful,  while  nothing  is 
certain  in  every  case  ;  except  that,  if  driven 
to  it  by  great  suffering  or  exhaustion  from 
pain,  anodynes  (as  opium,  or  morphia,  or 
some  of  their  preparations)  will  stupefy 
sufl&ciently  to  "  drown  "  the  agony. 

Temporary  weakness  often  brings  on  at- 
tacks of  neuralgic  pain  in  those  disposed  to 
have  them.  Such  persons  should  never 
wait  too  long  for  a  meal.  I,ikewise,  hot 
food,  as  a  cup  of  hot  milk,  or  cocoa,  or  beef- 
tea,  at  the  very  beginning  of  the  attack, 
may  stop  its  progress. 


n 


265 


22 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


Heat  applied  to  the  painful  part  will  fre- 
quently do  good  ;  any  convenient  mode  of 
application  will  answer.  On  some  parts  of 
the  body  a  mustard- plaster  is  just  the  thing. 
Siinshine  will  (as  I  have  seen)  cure  some 
attacks.  On  the  other  hand,  I  have  read  of 
ice  applications  having  the  same  effect ;  but 
I  have  never  witnessed  its  trial.  The  Jap- 
anese remedy,  menthol,  or  oil  of  peppermittt, 
is  conveniently  applicable  in  the  form  of 
rounded  sticks,  made  by  the  druggists  by 
mixing  it  with  spermaceti.  One  of  these 
may  be  gently  rubbed  over  the  painful  part 
for  a  few  moments  at  a  time. 

Various  powerful  anodynes  are  some- 
times advised  by  physicians  to  be  put  upon, 
or  hypodermically  injected  near  the  seat  of 
severe  and  obstinate  neuralgic  pain.  As  in 
the  case  of  rhenmatic  joiiits  a  rag  soaked  in 
laudanum,  laid  on  the  part  and  covered  with 
oiled  silk  (or  oiled  paper)  will  often  stupefy 
the  nerves  of  the  part  so  as  to  quell  the  pain. 
Anodyne  linivie^its  are  often  used  with  ad- 
vantage. I  may  mention  one  which  is 
moderate  in  strength  and  safe  (applied  out- 
side only) :  mix  one  drachm  of  chloral  hy- 
drate with  four  fluidounces  of  soap  liniment. 
This  is  to  be  gently  rubbed  in,  for  a  few 
minutes  at  a  time,  over  the  part  affected 
with  pain. 

Pain  at  time  of  menstruation  {dys- 
menorrhcea^  is  habitual  with  some  women, 
and  occasional  with  others.  For  its  pre- 
vention ,  those  liable  to  it  should  keep  quiet 
for  a  couple  of  days  before  the  expected 
time,  and  then  for  another  day  or  two. 
When  the  pain  has  commenced,  the  proper 
position  is  lying  down.  Warmth,  not  ex- 
cessive, but  enough  for  entire  comfort,  is 
also  needful.  Hot  drinks,  such  as  gijiger 
tea,  or  hot  water  with  a  little  essence  of 
ginger  in  it,  or  a  teaspoonful  of  compou7id 
spirits  of  lavender,  will  be  suitable.  So  will 
spirits  of  camphor,  or  camphor  water,  and,  in 
bad  cases,  paregoric,  or  even  (carefully) 
laudanum.  Clothes  wrung  out  of  hot  water 
may  be  applied  to  the  lower  part  of  the  ab- 
domen. Very  severe  suffering  of  this  kind 
may,  in  rare  cases,  call  for  injection  of 
laudanum  into  the  bowels. 

Piles  (small  lumps  at  or  near  the  anus, 
i.e.  outlet  from  the  lower  bowel)  are  some- 
times very  painful,  especially  at  or  after  the 


time  of  movement  of  the  bowels.  Consti- 
pation should  be  avoided,  as  far  as  possible, 
by  those  who  are  troubled  with  piles,  and 
yet  purging  actively  will  not  agree  with 
them.  Rhubarb  is  the  best  laxative  in  such 
cases  ;  or  sulphur  ,  not  magnesia. 

Inflamed  piles  may  be  soothed,  if  much 
heated,  by  application  of  very  cold  water. 
Yet,  contradictory  as  it  seems,  warm,  or 
moderately  hot  water,  will  give  still  more 
comfort  in  some  cases.  A  flaxseed  poultice 
into  which  a  teaspoonful  of  laudanum  has 
been  poured  will  be  suitable  when  the  pa- 
tient is  in  bed  with  a  bad  attack.  An  oint- 
ment, as  cold  cream  (of  the  apothecary), 
should  be  frequently  applied.  It  is  well  to 
know  that  an  attack  of  pain  and  soreness  in 
piles  (which  are  often  present  without  giving 
much  trouble)  may  be  many  times  prevented 
by  the  early  and  free  anointing  of  the  parts 
with  cold  cream,  tallow,  or  lard. 

Strangury  (pain  in  passing  water)  is  to 
be  treated  by  the  warm  bath,  or  hip-bath 
(sitting-bath),  followed  by  an  application 
over  the  bladder,  or  between  the  thighs,  of 
cloths  wrung  out  of  hot  water.  Also,  taking 
camphor  water  and  flaxseed  tea  containing 
a  little  sweet  spirits  of  nitre,  as  a  drink. 
Severe  cases  may  justify  an  injection  of 
laudanum  into  the  bowels,  or  the  placing  in 
the  lo  A^er  bowel  of  a  suppository  of  opium. 

Under  the  name  of  anodynes  (pain  re- 
lievers) several  other  drugs  are  named  in 
medical  books.  We  need  only  mention  here 
hydrate  of  chloral,  belladonna,  cocaine, 
hyoscyamus,  stramonium,  cannabis  indica, 
and  chloroform.  Every  one  knows,  also, 
what  a  boon  to  those  who  have  to  undergo 
surgical  or  dental  operations  is  the  breathing 
(inhalation)  of  anaesthetics,  as  ether,  nitrous 
oxide,  and  chloroform.  These  are  called  by 
that  name  because  they  annul  sensation,  for 
the  time.  For  extracting  teeth,  pure  ni- 
trous oxide  is  the  best ;  for  larger  opera- 
tions, ether  is  much  safer,  though  less  con- 
venient, than  chloroform.  The  use  of 
ether,  in  this  way,  requires  much  skill, 
judgment,  and  care. 

Composing  Nervous  Disturbance. 

What  this  requires  depends  very  greatly 
on  the  cause  and  nature  of  the  trouble. 
For  infants,  as  wfell  as  older  persons,  nervous 


266 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


23 


disturbance  may  vary  all  the  way  from 
slight  fidgeting  to  fits  or  convulswis .  Mild 
medicines  for  moderate  degrees  of,  for  ex- 
ample, "  hysterical  "  nervousness,  are  assa- 
foetida,  carnpho?-,  valerian,  and  Hoffman's 
Anodyiu.  Physicians  often  prescribe  also, 
bromide  of  potassium  (or  of  sodium),  musk, 
and  others. 

Convulsions  are  very  much  more  com- 
mon in  children  than  in  grown  people  ;  and 
most  so  of  all  at  teething  time.  They  are 
least  dangerous  during  infancy,  but  are 
always  alarming.  What  is  to  be  done  be- 
tween times  to  prevent  or  ward  them  off,  is 
an  important  and  often  difficult  question  for 
even  the  physician  to  answer. 

When  a  child  "  has  a  fit,"  lay  it  upon  a 
bed,  loosening  all  its  clothing,  especially 
about  its  neck.  Have  good  fresh  air  in  the 
room,  but  also  sufiicient  warmth.  Make 
two  mustard-plasters,  one  for  the  stomach 
and  one  for  the  back.  Get  a  warm  (almost 
hot)  bath  ready.  If  the  plasters  are  pre- 
pared first,  put  them  on  ;  if  the  bath  first, 
let  them  wait,  and  place  the  child  in  the 
warm  water  at  once.  In  the  last  case,  also 
pour  gently  cold  water  over  the  head  while 
the  child  is  held  laid  in  the  bath. 

The  mustard-plasters  (whether  first  or 
second  in  time)  are  only  to  stay  on  long 
enough  to  redden,  not  blister,  the  skin.  This 
should  be  ascertained  by  looking  under  the 
plaster  every  few  minutes.  A  very  little 
while  will  be  enough  to  redden  and  burn  a 
child's  skin  if  the  plaster  is  strong  of  mus- 
tard. But  it  will  be  better  for  it  to  have, 
for  an  infant,  only  one-third  part  of  mustard, 
the  rest  flour  or  Indian  meal. 

After  the  bath,  have  prepared  a  mixture 
of  soap  and  hot  water,  and  into  a  teacupful 
of  this  put  a  dessertspoonful  of  milk  of  assa- 
foetida  (if  at  hand)  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
castor  or  olive  oil.  Let  this  be  thrown  into 
the  bowels  with  an  injecting  syringe ;  a 
towel  being  then  held  for  a  little  while 
against  the  fundament  to  prevent  the  injec- 
tion from  escaping  at  the  moment. 

Adult  men  and  women  rarely  (although 
they  do  sometimes)  have  convulsions,  ex- 
cept those  which  are  either  hysterical, 
puerperal,  or  epileptic.  The  principles  of 
management  of  hysterical  and  epileptic  con- 
vulsions, during  the  attack,  are  essentially 


567 


the  same  as  for  that  of  infantile  convulsions. 
Treatment  between  attacks  is  a  more  difficult 
affair — to  be  conducted  by  those  who  are 
skilled  in  medicine.  Puerperal  convulsions 
(that  is,  occurring  during  labor,  or  after 
childbirth)  are  more  peculiar,  and  ought 
always  to  have  immediate  attendance  from 
a  physician.  Few  cases  of  illness  are  more 
serious  and  critical  than  these  ;  not  only  in 
appearance,  but  in  reality. 

Promotion  of  Sleep. 

When  sleeplessness  comes  as  one  of  the 
symptoms  of  a  disease,  it  may  not  have  to 
be  dealt  with  by  itself,  at  least  with  medi- 
cine, unless  it  be  more  prolonged  and  dis- 
tressing than  usual.  In  every  case  quiet- 
ness is  indispensable,  through  the  evening 
and  night.  Little  or  no  light  should,  during 
the  night,  reach  the  eyes  of  the  patient :  if 
accustomed  to  darkness,  this  will  be  best. 

If  difficulty  of  sleeping  (insomnia^  result 
from  nervous  disturbance,  exhaustion,  over- 
study  or  anxiety,  management  should  always 
be  perseveringly  tried  before  resorting  to 
drugs  so  powerful  as  the  sleep -producers 
{hypnotics,  7iarcotics^ 

Very  light,  easily  digested  food  should, 
under  such  circumstances,  make  the  last 
meal  of  the  day.  Yet  a  person  not  strong 
will  sometimes  be  kept  awake  by  having  an 
empty  stomach  late  at  night.  A  cracker,  a 
drink  of  sugared  water,  or  a  small  wine- 
glassful  of  beef- tea,  may  then  make  a  better 
night.  No  excitement  of  the  brain,  as  by 
reading  or  continued  conversation,  should 
be  allowed  for  two  hours  before  usual  sleep- 
ing time.  Being  read  aloud  to,  if  the  book 
be  not  too  interesting,  answers  in  some 
cases  ;  but  an  objection  to  it  is  that  it  re- 
quires the  presence  of  more  light  than  is  de- 
sirable. 

Mothers  and  nurses  often  sing  their 
babies  to  sleep.  That  is  a  very  good  expe- 
dient, and  may  now  and  then  succeed  even 
with  a  grown  person. 

Exercise,  in  moderation,  and  in  propor- 
tion to  one's  strength,  may  be  very  well 
taken  in  the  evening  to  promote  sleep.  A 
walk  in  the  open  air  will  do,  or  a  few  min- 
utes' flourishing  of  not  too  heavy  dumb- 
belle.      Getting  a  little  tired    makes  one 


B4 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


sleep  ;  while  real  exhaustion  has   the   con- 
trary effect. 

Some  people  imagine  that  if  they  cannot 
get  asleep  at  once,  they  might  as  well  be  up 
and  doing  something,  reading  or  writing,  or 
walking  about.  This  is  a  very  great  mis- 
take. If  not  sound  asleep,  or  even  far 
enough  towards  that  to  entirely  lose  con- 
sciousness, we  may  yet  get  a  good  deal  of 
rest  in  partial  sleep  ;  and  the  more  of  this  we 
get  the  better,  in  the  saving  and  renewal 
of  strength.  Keep  still,  then,  in  the  dark, 
with  closed  eyes,  and  try  to  dismiss  active 
thought.  Count  loo,  200,  300  ;  repeat  dog- 
gerel verses,  as  wrong  as  you  can  misre- 
member  them  ;  watch  imaginary  sheep 
jumping  over  fancied  stiles,  one,  two,  three, 
four,  and  on,  to  twenty-five  or  fifty.  Fight 
your  eyelids  ;  after  a  while,  the  brain-vibra- 
tions, like  those  of  a  bell  that  has  been 
struck,  will  lull  by  degrees,  and  sleep  may 
come  at  last. 

Hardly  without  a  doctor's  advice,  if 
that  can  be  procured,  ought  any  one  to  take 
strong  sleep-compelling  doses,  such  as  hy- 
drate of  chloral,  laudanum,  or  solutio7i  of 
morphia.  Lactucarium,  which  is  obtained 
from  the  garden  lettuce,  used  for  salad,  is 
much  milder  than  opium  ;  auv-  camphor 
water  will,  when  mere  nervous  restlessness  is 
the  matt^,  often  compose  so  as  to  allow  of 
sleep.  Hoffmann'' s Anodyneis  similar  in  its 
effect,  and  tmdiire  of  hops,  or  a  tea  made  of 
hops,  is  very  quieting.  Even  a  hop-pillow, 
made  by  sprinkling  hop-leaves  with  alcohol 
and  binding  them  in  a  pillow-case,  will 
sometimes  bring  the  tossing  head  to  rest. 

Purgative  fledicines. 

A  large  number  of  drugs  act  upon  the 
bowels  ;  cathartics  is  a  technical  name  for 
these.  Only  a  few  of  them  need  to  be  con- 
sidered in  connection  with  our  present  plan. 

Rh2ibarb  is  adapted  to  a  greater  variety 
of  cases  than  any  other  medicine  for  the 
simple  purpose  of  relieving  constipation. 
Simple  syrtlp  of  rhubarb  is  very  good  for  this 
use  with  babies.  Younger  yet,  however 
(under  a  year) ,  sweet  oil  (olive  oil)  is  mildest 
of  all,  u:i ie'-s  it  be  manna  or  glycerine  Fhiid 
extract  of  senna,  with  one  drop  oi  oil  of  a?iiseed 
or  oil  of  fennel  in  a  teaspoonful  of  it,  is  also 
a  good  infantile  laxative.     Castor  oil  comes 


268 


next,  when  a  more  active  purge  is  wanted  ; 
or,  when  there  is  sourness  of  stomach,  mag- 
nesia . 

At  any  age,  magnesia  is  the  best  antacid 
laxative.  Castor  oil  is  to  be  preferred  when 
colic  or  irritation  of  the  bowels  is  present. 
[Give  it  in  twice  as  much  spiced  syrup  oj 
rhzibarb,  well  mixed  up.] 

Saline  purgatives  are  useful  generallv 
at  an  early  time  of  attacks  of  sickness  witn 
fever.  Take  citrate  of  magnesium  or  Tat- 
ranV s  Aperient.  Seidlitz  powders  are  of 
similar  cooling  effect ;  and  the  same  is  true 
of  Rochelle  salt  and  cream  of  tartar.  Pullna 
and  Hunyadi  mineral  waters  please  the  taste 
of  some. 

At  the  beginning  of  acute  attacks  of  dis- 
ease with  fever,  the  use  of  some  purgative 
medicine,  especially  of  the  saline  kind,  is 
very  serviceable  and  importatit.  This  is  true, 
as  a  rule,  oi  measles,  scarlet  fever,  whooping- 
cough,  small- pox,  and  varioloid;  and,  with 
more  discrimination  of  cases  and  modera- 
tion in  doses,  also  of  diphtheria  and  typhus 
fever.  Typhoid  fever  has  diar7'hGea  as  an 
early  symptom  generally.  If,  in  it,  the 
bowels  are  exceptionally  costive,  only  a  tea- 
spoo7iful  of  castor  oil  had  better  be  ventured 
upon  to  relieve  the  bowels.  In  measles  the 
bowels  sometimes  incline  to  be  too  free ; 
but  this  should  not  prevent  our  making  sure 
of  their  full  movement  during  the  first  two 
or  three  days.  When,  after  that,  they  be- 
come too  loose,  a  weakening  excess  of  purg- 
ing may  be  checked  by  suitable  means, 
such  as  will  be  presently  mentioned. 

Vox  habitual costiveness ,  either  chewing  at 
bedtime  a  small  piece  of  Turkey  rhubarb 
root  (as  big  as  a  pea),  or  taking  at  that  time 
a  rhubarb  pill,  will  ho.  the  best  thing  to  be- 
gin with.  If  that  fails,  take  another  piece, 
or  another  pill,  also  before  breakfast. 

Compoujid  rhubarb  pills  are  stronger  ; 
they  will,  with  most  people,  purge  rather 
actively.  Compound  cathartic  pills,  of  the 
United  States  list,  are  too  strong  to  use  ex- 
cept when  a  very  decided  purgation  is  needed. 

Often,  when  the  mildest  and  least  dis- 
turbing way  of  emptying  the  lower  bowel  is 
required,  an  enema  (injection  into  the 
bowels)  will  be  the  best.  For  this,  a  simple 
and  generally  satisfactory  mixture  will  be 
made  by  dissolving  a  thumb -sized  piece  of 


s- 


a 

H 

o 

;s- 

a 

<>». 

r-i 

^ 

w 


^ 

©. 

O 

■^ 

Si. 

o 

0^ 

^~' 

b 

^ 

6 

^• 

:^ 

h) 

-^+1 

s- 

O 

U: 

o 

a, 

H 

^^ 

O 

Cl 

> 

^ 

!^ 

i^ 

O 

a 

^ 

Sr 

H 

^. 

H 

» 

?^ 

^ 

?i. 

rs- 

W 

t^. 

<^ 

^ 

^■v 

■~i; 

<s>. 

s 

» 

>/Q 

§ 

O 

t^ 

r 

^ 

_-4 

THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


25 


Castile  soap  in  warm  (almost  hot)  water, 
and  stirring  into  this  a  tablespoonful  of 
molasses,  a  tablespoonful  of  table  salt,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  olive  or  lard  oil,  or  a  des- 
sertspoonful of  castor  oil.  There  are  differ- 
ent kinds  of  injecting  arrangements.  With 
the  most  convenient,  a  person  can  (unless 
ill)  wait  upon  himself.  If  too  sick  for  this, 
or  if  only  the  old-fashioned  straight  syringe 
can  be  had,  its  point  should  be  greased  with 
lard,  and  then,  the  patient  lying  (best  on  one 
side)  on  a  bed,  it  can  be  very  gently  intro- 
duced into  the  opening  to  the  bowel  to  the 
distance  of  an  inch  or  so,  and  gradually  the 
liquid  may  be  forced  through  the  syringe. 

Suppositories  are  sometimes  yet  more 
convenient,  and  are  least  disturbing  of  all  ; 
but  they  are  not  so  sure  to  take  effect,  and 
their  action  does  not  extend  far  upward.  A 
suppository  is  a  small  soft  mass,  preprared 
for  the  purpose  ;  rounded,  about  as  large  as 
the  last  joint  of  a  woman's  little  finger. 
Common  brow7i  soap,  cut  into  such  a  size 
and  shape,  and  dipped  in  castor  oil,  or  lard, 
may  be  so  used.  All  that  is  to  be  done  is  to 
push  it  well  into  the  anus  (outlet  of  the 
bowel),  and  let  it  stay  there. 

After  either  a  suppository  or  an  enema 
has  been  introduced,  the  patient  ought  to 
try  to  retain  it  for  some  minutes,  for  effective 
operation. 

To  Check  Diarrhoea. 

Not  every  looseness  of  the  bowels  ought 
to  be  stopped  at  once  by  medicine.  Some- 
times it  is  a  relief  to  a  condition  of  the  sys- 
tem which  would  involve  a  worse  illness  if 
it  did  not  come. 

Infants,  especially,  need  to  have  the 
bowels  moved  two  or  three  times  daily ; 
most  of  all  while  they  are  teething.  We  do 
not  call  it  diarrhoea  in  them  unless  there  are 
at  least  four  or  five  large  liquid  passages  in 
twenty-four  hours.  Of  course  when  it  is 
jexcessive  it  must  be  attended  to,  or  weak- 
'ness  and  exhaustion  will  follow. 

Correctives,  generally,  should  be  the 
first  things  given  in  babies'  diarrhoea.  Sour- 
ness of  stomach  is  commonly  present  with 
it ;  therefore  liifie-water  being  antacid,  is 
particularly  suitable.  Another  good  cor- 
rective is  spiced  syrup  of  ?'kubarb.  On  ac- 
count of  the  spices  in  it,  this  article  does  odt 


R  Pros 


269 


purge  like  simple  syrup  of  rhubarb  ;  it  only 
promotes  an  even,  regular  action  of  the  mus- 
cular coat  of  the  bowels,  and  so  tends  to  gel 
things  right  again. 

Soda  {sodizmi  bicarbonate)  is  an  antacid 
corrective,  stronger  in  this  effect  than  lime- 
water  ;  but  less  astringent  or  binding. 

Ci?inamon  water  is  a  gentle  astringent ; 
so  is  camphor  water.  These  do  well  to  come 
next  after  lime-water  or  soda  and  spiced 
rhubarb,  if  the  complaint  is  not  corrected  by 
them.  Should  it  still  be  obstinate,  more 
potent  checking  medicines  will  be  needful. 
Of  these,  ^ar<?^£'rzV  and  laudaiiuni  have  much 
power  ;  but  they  must  be  used  very  cau- 
tiously, on  account  of  their  containing 
opium. 

Of  the  many  astringent  medicines  em- 
ployed by  physicians,  under  whose  advice, 
when  it  can  be  had,  they  had  better  be 
taken,  we  may  mention  here,  as  possibly 
wanted  in  home  practice,  chalk  mixture  and 
tincttire  of  catechu.  A  desperate  and  ex- 
hausting diarrhoea,  which  resists  all  such 
treatment  as  has  now  been  spoken  of,  may 
call  for  the  use  of  a  laudanum  and  starch 
enema.  This  is  introduced  with  a  small 
syringe,  even  for  a  grown  person  ;  the  ob- 
ject being  to  have  it  stay  in  the  bowel  ;  just 
the  opposite  of  what  we  want  from  a  pzirga- 
tive  injection.  A  syringe  holding  an  ounce 
will  do  for  this  purpose  for  an  adult ;  half  an 
ounce  for  a  child.  Two  or  three  drops  of 
laudanum,  with  starch,  made  not  too  thick 
to  run,  will  be  the  infantile  dose  for  such  an 
enema  (even  less  for  a  babe  under  a  year 
old)  ;  thirty  or  forty  drops  of  laudanum, 
with  less  than  an  ounce  of  starch,  for  a 
grown  person. 

Dysentery  differs  from  diarrhoea,  in 
having  many  small  and  bloody  passages, 
with  str-aining  or  bearing  down,  as  well  as 
pain.  (Sometimes  there  is  abdominal  pain 
with  or  before  each  passage  in  diarrhoea.) 

Sick  Stomach. 

As  this  occurs  under  a  variety  of  circum- 
stances, the  main  treatment  of  every  case 
must  depend  upon  its  nature  and  cause. 
We  may  name,  however,  several  remedies 
which  will  do  good  in  most  cases  of  nausea 
or  vomiting,  and  which,  therefore,  it  will  be 
safe  to  use  while  awaiting  medical  advice- 


S6 


'I HE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


ICR  is  one  of  these.  It  may  be  taken 
into  the  mouth  in  small  pieces,  and  melted 
before  swallowing.  This  is  helpful  in  nine 
out  of  ten  instances  of  sick  stomach,  and  in 
the  tenth  case  will  do  no  harm. 

Lime-water  is  beneficial  in  most  of 
such  cases  ;  when  nourishment  is  needed,  it 
may  be  given  in  equal  parts  with  milk, 
from  a  teaspoonful  to  a  tablespoonful  of  each. 

KeeervESCing  waters  (mineral- water, 
soda-water,  Apollinaris,  etc.),  made  cool 
with  ice,  very  often  assist  in  relieving 
nausea.  When  sea-sick ,  iced  mineral-water 
will  be  likely  to  help  more  than  anything 
else. 

When  weakness  is  present,  teaspoonful 
doses  of  brandy  or  (the  best)  whiskey  may 
be  appropriate.  The  smallness  of  the  dose 
is  here  especially  important,  and  it  need  not 
often  be  repeated  more  than  three  or  four 
times,  at  intervals  of  half  an  hour  or  so, 
unless  great  exhaustion  is  impending.  Very 
seldom  ought  anything  alcoholic  to  be  ven- 
tured upon  as  a  remedy  without  the  express 
advice  of  a  medical  authority.  Children's 
doses,  of  such  and  of  all  strong  medicines 
should  be  very  small  Ten  drops  of  brandy 
or  whiskey  will  be  enough  at  a  time  (if 
needed  at  all)  for  a  child  of  two  or  three 
years,  where  a  teaspoonful  would  be  given  to 
a  grown  or  nearly  grown  person. 

Aromatic  Spirit  oe  Ammonia  is  re- 
viving to  one  who  is  faint  with  sickness  of 
stomach.     It  is  antacid  as  well  as  stimulant. 

Soda  (bicarbonate  of  sodium)  is  antacid, 
but  not  stimulant.  It  is  generally  very  com- 
fortable to  a  disturbed  stomach. 

Warming  stomachic  doses  for  nausea 
are  ginger,  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  other  aro- 
matics  (spicy  articles)  in  small  doses. 
Large  draughts  of  ginger,  hoarhound,  cham- 
omile, or  boneset  tea,  or  even  of  clove  or 
cinnamon  infusion,  will  bring  on  vomiting. 
This  is  an  instructive  example  of  the  oppo- 
site effects,  often  produced  by  the  same 
thing,  in  small  and  in  large  doses. 

Sometimes,  with  constipation,  or  even, 
especially  in  summer,  with  commencing 
diarrhoea,  small  doses  of  magnesia  are  com- 
posing to  the  stomach.  The  same  is  true  of 
very  small  doses  of  calomel  (^V  to  }^  of  a 
grain),  which,  however,  belongs  to  the  phy- 
sician's rather  than  to  the  home  list  of  medir- 

2 


cines.  Still,  out  in  the  country,  where  ad- 
vice cannot  always  be  had  in  time,  a  family 
medicine-chest  may  very  well  have  in  it, 
among  other  things  only  for  posssible  or  occa 
sional  use,  a  small  box  or  package  of  -^^- 
grain  calotnel-powders .  They  may  be  ser- 
viceable particularly  at  an  early  stage  of 
summer  compiaiiit  in  children. 

Paregoric  is  the  only  other  medicine 
needing  here  to  be  mentioned  among  those 
likely  to  assist  in  quieting  a  nauseated 
stomach. 

Outside,  an  early  remedy  for  vomiting 
may,  in  any  case,  safely  be,  a  mustard-plas- 
ter over  the  pit  of  the  stomach.  For  a 
young  child,  a  spice-plaster  will,  for  this 
purpose,  be  preferable ;  made  by  mixing 
together  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls  each  of 
several  spices — as  ginger,  cloves,  and  cinna- 
mon, or  half  as  much  red  pepper,  with  a 
similar  amount  of  wheat  or  Indian  flour ; 
wetting  these  with  whiskey,  and  spreading 
them  on  a  piece  of  muslin  or  thin  flannel. 
This,  when  laid  over  the  stomach,  should  be 
covered  with  a  piece  of  oiled  silk  or  oiled 
paper  or  rubber-cloth,  to  retain  its  moisture 
for  a  longer  time. 

Indigestion. 

A  much  overloaded  stomach  is  best  re- 
lieved by  being  made  to  throw  out  its  con- 
tents under  the  action  of  an  emetic.  This 
is,  however,  a  harsh  remedy,  not  nowadays 
often  resorted  to. 

Ordinary  indigestion  requires,  for  one 
thing,  to  give  the  stomach  rest.  I^et  no 
food  be  taken  for  a  number  of  hours  ;  if  the 
patient  is  strong  enough,  not  for  a  whole 
day.  Make  sure  that  the  bowels  are  open  ; 
to  carry  off  the  refuse  of  undigested  or  half- 
digested  food. 

If  the  stomach  is  still  unsettled,  the  aids 
to  nature  which  we  may  resort  to  are  those 
just  above-mentioned,  as  suitable  for  cases 
of  nausea  and  vomiting.  Small  and  few 
doses,  however,  are  likely  to  be  necessary 
for  common  attacks  of  indigestion.  If, 
with  these,  there  are  dizziness,  headache,  a 
yellow  tongue  or  eyes,  and  a  bitter  taste  in 
the  morning  on  awaking — a  set  of  symptoms 
designated  usually  as  biliousness — small 
doses  of  the  old-fashioned  blue  pill  may  be 
reasonably  and  safely  given. 
70 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


27 


Practically  speaking,  of  blue  pill,  a 
small  dose  for  indigestion,  with  signs  of  par- 
ticipation by  the  liver,  will  be  one  grain  at 
night,  and  again  the  next  morning  ;  and  per- 
haps again  the  second  night.  Compound 
gentian  pills  may  be  taken  for  two  or  three 
days,  if  entire  relief  does  not  come  sooner. 
This  is  the  prescription  : 

Take  of  blue  mass,  five  grains  ;  powder  of  rhu- 
barb root,  and  extract  of  gentian,  each  twenty 
grains ;  oil  of  cloves,  four  drops.  Mix  these  to- 
gether, and  divide  the  whole  into  twenty  pills. 
One  or  two  should  be  taken  at  once. 

When  there  is  lingering  indigestion, 
after  an  attack,  with  some  flatulence,  the 
bowels  not  being  sufficiently  free,  yet  not  re- 
quiring a  strong  purge,  two  of  the  above 
pills  may  be  taken,  twice  daily,  for  two  or 
three  days  ;  not  longer  at  one  time,  on  ac- 
count of  their  containing  a  small  amount  of 
mercury. 

Continued  Weak  Digestion, 

The  class  of  medicines  which  particu- 
larly tone  up  a  weak  and  relaxed  stomach 
are  the  simple  vegetable  bitters.  Such  are 
quassia,  cohimbo,  gentian,  and  some  others. 
Simple  bitters  we  call  these,  because  they 
have  no  other  very  positive  quality  except 
the  bitter  taste,  and  no  marked  effect  upon 
the  human  system  except  as  tonics  to  the 
stomach .  (In  laj'ge  draughts  their  infusions 
or  "  teas  "  will  act  as  emetics.^ 

There  are  some  bitters  which  have  other 
very  important  actions.  Quinia  is  one,  got 
from  Peruvian  bark ;  it  acts  powerfully  on 
the  nervous  system,  and  is  the  special 
remedy  for  malarial  fevers.  The  same  bark 
contains  also  cinchonia,  and  several  other 
more  or  less  bitter  tonic  and  nervine  ' '  alka- 
loids," as  the  chemists  name  them. 

Nux  Vomica  is  a  very  powerful  bitter 
nervine  tonic.  Out  of  it  is  obtained  strych- 
nia, one  of  the  deadliest  of  poisons,  but  also 
one  of  the  most  valuable  of  medicines, 
when  used  with  judgment,  care,  and  skill. 
With  this  information,  we  may  venture  to 
add  that  the  tincture  of  nux  vomica,  in  ten- 
drop  doses,  twice  or  thrice  daily,  is  one  of 
the  most  effective  of  all  the  stomachic  bit- 
ters, in  cases  of  continued  weakness  of  di- 
gestion, with  flatulence. 


These  bitters  generally  improve  the  ap- 
petite, which  is  almost  always  poor  when 
the  stomach  is  otherwise  weak.  For  the 
same  end,  as  appetizers,  mineral  acids  are 
useful ;  dilute  aromatic  sulphuric  acid,  for 
example,  under  the  common  name  of  elixir 
of  vitriol,  and  chlorohydric  acid,  formerly, 
and  sometimes  now,  called  hydrocholoric,  or 
muriatic  acid.  Nitromuriatic  acid  adds  a 
special  tendency  to  act  upon  the  liver.  One 
or  other  of  these  acids,  and  most  of  all  the 
last  named,  is  often  given  to  the  subjects  of 
prolonged  indigestion,  along  with  the  vege- 
table bitters. 

To  Reduce  Inflammation. 

A  serious  task,  this  is,  in  many  instances; 
taxing  the  doctor's  skill,  and  not  very  rarely 
baffling  him.  How,  then,  can  one  say  any- 
thing about  it  in  a  work  on  Home  Medi- 
cine ?  A  few  clear  principles  seem  to  be  all 
that  can  be  here  spoken  of,  referring  the 
reader  for  a  larger  discussion  of  the  subject 
to  treatises  designed  for  the  medical  pro- 
fession. 

Inflammation  (as  already  said  in  that 
part  of  this  book  which  dealt  with  the 
nature  of  diseases)  may  affect  any  organ  or 
portion  of  the  living  body.  When  it  attacks 
one  of  the  more  important  organs,  or  even 
extensively  involves  the  skin,  life  may  be 
endangered  by  it.  If  only  a  small  part,  as 
an  eye,  ear,  hand,  or  foot,  is  infl.amed,  there 
is  usually  much  less  danger,  though  there 
may  be  a  great  deal  of  suffering.  Moreover, 
an  inflammation  may  spread,  as  from  the  ear 
or  the  eye  to  the  brain  ;  or  some  poisonous 
(septic)  matter  may  be  formed  in  the  in- 
flamed part,  and  by  blood-poisoning  {sep- 
ticcemia"),  the  whole  body  may  suffer  and 
perhaps  die.  Septicaemia  is  very  often 
fatal,  but  a  vast  multitude  of  people  have 
inflamed  hands,  feet,  eyes,  noses,  jaws,  etc., 
without  either  it  or  the  allied  disorder, 
pygemia.  The  liability  to  such  accidents  of 
inflammation  is  greatest  where  the  atmos- 
phere of  the  place  is  foul. 

Taking  a  broad  general  view  of  inflam- 
mations as  a  class  of  disorders,  it  may  be 
said  that  they  have  three  stages,  or  progres- 
sive changes. 

First  comes  excitement.  Towards  the 
centre   of   the   inflamed    part,    the    arterial 


271 


25 


J  HE  tAMILY  JJULIUK 


blood-vessels  beat  and  throb  ;  being  roused 
to  endeavor,  so  to  speak,  to  overcome  the 
obstruction  there.  Heat,  redness,  swelling, 
and  pain,  all  belong  to  this  stage. 

Then  follows  exudation.  This  is  the 
forcing  of  some  of  the  fluid  portion  of  the 
blood  (often  with  some  of  the  white  cor- 
puscles;  occasionally  also  a  number  of  the 
red  corpuscles)  out,  under  the  pressure  of  the 
excitement  and  resistance  together,  through 
the  walls  of  the  vessels,  into  the  substance 
of  the  part.  If  this  fluid  is  thin,  it  may  col- 
lect as  a  "  serous  effusion ; ' '  such  as  is  fre- 
quently the  result  of  pleurisy.  When  thick 
and  adhesive,  it  glues  parts  together  {plastic 
lymph);  this  happens  in  the  pleura,  in  the 
peritoneum,  in  the  pericardium,  and  in  the 
membranes  of  the  brain.  If,  again,  there 
are  many  white  corpuscles  in  it,  and  the 
vitality  of  the  part  is  disturbed  much,  pits 
is  formed  ;  we  have  suppuration ;  with 
either  an  abscess,  or,  at  once,  a  yellowish  or 
greenish  prudent  discharge  (as  in  severe 
bronchitis) . 

This  is  one  way  in  which  the  three  stages 
of  inflammation  may  follow  one  another. 
But,  differently  from  this,  there  may  be  the 
firststageof  excitement, and  thesecond,  ol  ex- 
udation (effusion),  with,  for  a  third,  instead 
of  suppuration,  gangrene,  or  viortification. 

More  frequently  we  have  inflammatory 
excitement,  and  moderate  or  small  exuda- 
tion, followed  by  resolution  ;  that  is,  the 
inflammatory  process  ceases,  without  either 
suppuration  or  gangrene  ;  and  the  part  and 
the  patient  get  well. 

Now,  what  can  be  done  by  treat )ne}it 
against  the  going  on  of  inflammation  to  its 
worst  (gangrene),  or  the  next  worst  (sup- 
puration), or  the  third  in  seriousness  (liquid 
eff"usion)  ? 

We  can  attack  it  in  the  first  stage  of  ex- 
citement, with,  in  many  cases,  very  good 
effect.  This  is  what  we  mean  by  reduciyig 
inflammation ;  moderating  the  violence  of 
the  conflict  between  the  surrounding  throb- 
bing blood-vessels  and  the  obstructed  centre, 
so  that  the  least  possible  damage  shall  be 
done  by  it. 

Means  Used  in  Reducing  Inflammatoin. 

For  this  purpose,  the  means  available  in 
different  cases  are,  chiefly,  these  : 


27: 


Rest ;  Position  ;  Cold  ;  Diet ;  Purgatio?i ; 
Blood- letti7ig  ;  Cooling  Medicijies ;  Nervous 
Sedatives  ;  Cowiter  irritation. 

Rest  of  the  part  is  indispensable  in  all 
inflammations.  When  the  part  is  small, 
and  is  not  used  in  moving  about,  the  body 
need  not  be  absolutely  confined.  If  it  be 
otherwise,  as  when  an  ankle  is  inflamed 
from  a  severe  sprain,  and  still  more  when  a 
lung,  or  the  pleura,  or  a  bowel,  is  so  af- 
fected, the  rest  must  be  complete,  in  bed. 
Carrying  a  sore  hand  in  a  sling  rests  it ; 
covering  an  inflamed  eye  with  adhesive 
plaster  closing  the  lids,  or  remaining  in  a 
darkened  room,  gives  it  repose.  But  any 
one  with  an  inflamed  lung  must  be  kept  as 
still  as  possible  ;  and  must  not  even  speak, 
unless  in  a  whisper.  If  the  brain  be  in- 
flamed, quietness  and  almost  darkness  will 
be  necessary,  to  avoid  mental  as  well  as 
bodily  disturbance. 

Position  can  be  made  to  help  when  a 
hand  or  a  foot  is  inflamed.  By  keeping  the 
part  raised,  the  tendency  of  blood  towards 
it  will  be  lessened  advantageously. 

Cold  is  often  a  powerful  antiphlogistic, 
as  old  writers  called  whatever  tends  to 
reduce  inflammation.  It  must,  however,  be 
steadily  applied,  to  have  this  effect.  Dash- 
ing cold  water  on  a  part  and  then  leaving  it, 
in  a  place  not  itself  freezing  cold,  will  from 
reaction,  make  it  warmer  than  before. 
When  the  brain  is  inflamed,  a  good  plan  is 
to  shave  the  head,  or  at  least  cut  the  hair 
very  short,  and  keep  it  half  covered  with 
light  rags  soaked  in  ice- water.  For  stead- 
iness of  effect,  the  rags  must  be  dipped  in  the 
cold  water  every  few  minutes.  A  more 
effectual  method — more  convenient,  how- 
ever, for  the  abdomen  than  for  the  head — is 
to  lay  over  the  inflamed  part  a  coil  of  light 
rubber  tubing,  through  which  cold  water  is 
made  to  pass.  This  is  done  b}^  placing  one 
end  of  the  tube  in  a  vessel  of  water  some- 
what higher  than  the  body,  and  allowing 
the  water  to  pass  out  at  the  other  end,  which 
is  placed  lower. 

DiKT  was  formerly  much  relied  upon, 
and  low  diet  was  made  very  low — almost  to 
starvation.  We  know  now,  that  inflam- 
mation is  possible  in  feeble  as  well  as  in 
strong  bodies.  Not  every  one  can  bear 
doing  long  without  food,  or  even  with  too 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


«5 


little  food.  Also,  strength  is  necessary  to 
shake  oflf  disease,  so  to  speak.  It  is  not 
strength,  but  excitement,  that  we  want  to 
reduce.  A  really  low,  thin  diet,  therefore, 
is  only  suitable  for  a  strong  person,  and  in 
no  case  for  many  days  together,  during 
illness.  It  is  important,  however,  when 
fever  is  present,  with  which  the  power  of 
digestion  is  always  weak,  to  give  food  in  a 
simple,  liquid  form,  so  as  to  cause  the 
stomach  no  trouble  in  appropriating  it. 

Purging  medicines  act  like  an  unstim- 
ulating  diet,  in  cooling  the  blood,  and  thus 
promoting  a  quieter  action  of  the  heart  and 
arteries.  This  favors  the  reduction  of  the 
excitement  which  attends  a  violent  inflam- 
mation of  any  part.  The  cathartics  which 
have  the  most  effect  of  this  kind  are  the 
Salines,  as  Epsom  salts,  Rochelle  salt, 
citrate  of  magnesium,  cream  of  tartar,  etc. 

Taking  blood,  either  from  a  vein  in  the 
arm   (venesection)  or  by  leeches  or  cups, 


LEECHES   APPLIED. 


from  an  inflamed  part  (local  blood-letting), 
is  a  very  ancient  remedy.  Once  overmuch 
used,  the  reaction  in  our  time  has  gone  quite 
too  far  against  it.  It  is  a  very  valuable 
means  of  reducing  inflammation. 

Cooling  or  Sedative  Medicines. 

CooiviNG  (sedative)  medicines  are  in 
place  chiefly  in  inflammatory  affections  of 
the  breathing  organs,  as  pneumonia,  bron- 
chitis, and  pleurisy.     Tartar  emetic  is  the 


most  powerful  of  these.  Once  it  was  very 
largely  used.  Its  harsh  action  upon  the 
stomach  and  bowels  has  caused  it  to  be  uor^ 
given  mostly  in  very  small  doses  ;  from  the 
one- sixteenth  to  the  one  fourth  of  a  grain 
only,  for  adults,  at  an  early  stage  of  a  vio- 
lent inflammation  attended  by  fever.  Tar- 
tar emetic  is  not  suitable  to  be  used  as  a  do- 
mestic medicine. 

Ipecacuanha  resembles  it  in  its  dispo- 
sition to  bring  on  vomiting,  but  is  very 
much  milder  and  safer.  Ipecacuanha  is  a 
very  proper  article  for  family  use,  under 
many  circumstances. 

Nitrate  of  Potassium  is  a  sedative,  cool- 
ing  medicine,  not  now  very  largely  used  by 
ph3^sicians.  Digitalis  was  once  considered 
a  sedative ;  now  it  is  called  a  tonic  to  the 
heart.  Ergot  has  great  popularity  in  the 
medical  profession  at  the  present  time,  in 
the  treatment  of  subacute  inflammatory 
troubles,  particularly  of  the  spinal  marrow. 
None  of  these  last — nitrate  of  potassium, 
digitalis,  or  ergot — can  be  advantageously 
used  without  medical  advice. 

The  nerve-centres  have  much  influence 
over  the  movements  of  the  blood,  and  some 
nervous  sedatives  are  important  in  their  sec- 
ondary effects  upon  inflammation. 

Aco7iite  is  one  of  these.  It  is  a  strong 
poison  in  any  but  very  small  doses,  and  must 
be  used  only  with  the  greatest  care.  Ti7ic- 
ture  of  aconite  is  the  common  preparation. 
Its  dose  is  from  half  a  drop  to  one  or  two 
drops,  in  water,  every  one,  two,  or  three 
hours.  Some  physicians  of  experience  give 
it  in  almost  all  cases  of  inflammation  of  the 
lungs,  pleura,  etc.,  even  in  children.  If  it 
is  kept  in  the  family  medicine-chest,  it 
should  be  distinctly  marked  poison. 

Opiiun  has  obtained  a  very  large  place  in 
the  treatment  of  one  dangerous  inflammation , 
that  of  the  peritoneum  (^peritonitis') ,  which 
lines  the  whole  interior  of  the  abdomen. 
Opium  tends  to  constipate  the  bowels,  and 
powerfully  affects  the  brain.  It  also  tends 
to  diminish  secretion  in  the  air-passages, 
and  therefore  it  does  not  appear  to  be  suita- 
ble, at  least  at  an  early  stage,  in  inflamma- 
tion of  the  bowels,  brain,  or  lungs,  or  in 
acute  bronchitis.  After  the  excitement  has 
subsided,  in  dysentery  and  in  bronchitis,  per- 
haps sometimes  in  pneumonia,  it  may  aid  in 


=  73 


30 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


allaying  pain  and  checking  excessive  dis- 
charges. 

Counter-irritation  is  a  term  which 
explains  itself.  Endeavor  is  made  to  draw 
blood  and  nervous  excitement  from  an  in- 
flamed part  by  a  harmless  irritation  or  in- 
flammation somewhere  else.  Blisters  are 
strong  means  of  this  kind.  A  blister  is 
raised  by  leaving  on  the  skin  for  a  time  a 
plaster  made  of  ointment  of  cantharides  ;  or 
painting  the  part  with  cantharidal  collodion, 
and  covering  it,  while  moist,  with  a  piece  of 
oiled  silk.  With  a  child,  an  hour  or  two 
will  generally  be  enough  to  allow  the  can- 
tharides (Spanish  fly)  to  act.  In  a  grown 
person,  it  may  require  three,  four,  or  more 
hours.  There  should  always  be  a  piece  of 
gauze  between  the  skin  and  the  blistering 
plaster,  so  that  it  can  be  entirely  removed  at 
the  proper  time.  When  it  is  taken  off",  the 
scarf-skin  (cuticle)  being  raised  in  watery 
swellings,  these  may  be  pricked  with  a  point 
of  any  kind,  to  let  the  water  out.  Then 
there  should  be  placed  over  the  sore  surface 
a  piece  of  muslin  or  lint  thickly  spread  with 
simple  cerate,  to  heal  it  up  in  two  or  three 
days. 

The  time  for  blistering  (which  is  only 
called  for  in  rather  bad  attacks  of  internal 
inflammation)  is  not  at  the  beginning  of  the 
case,  but  after  the  excitement  of  the  circula- 
tion has  ceased.  The  disorders,  in  the 
course  of  which,  at  such  a  stage,  a  blister  is 
most  likely  to  do  good,  are  inflammation  of 
the  brain ,  pJieumo?iia ,  pleurisy  and  jnembra- 
nous  croup. 

Other  modes  of  counter-irritation  are, 
painting  the  skin  with  tincture  of  iodiyie ; 
rubbing  over  a  small  surface  a  drop  or  two  of 
croton  oil ;  or  a  little  tartar  emetic  ointment. 

Painting  with  iodine  is  a  milder  measure 
than  blistering  with  cantharides ;  and  it 
may  be  resorted  to  in  a  greater  number  of 
cases,  of  moderate  violence.  Croton  oil  and 
tartar  emetic  ointment  are  only  employed  in 
obstinate  chronic  cases  of  irritation  of  inter- 
nal organs .  They  produce  very  sore ,  pimply , 
or  pustular  eruptions.* 

*  If  either  of  these  should  be  used,  great  care 
must  be  taken  not  to  get  the  oil  or  ointment  into 
any  one's  eyes.  A  patient  of  mine  nearly  blinded 
himself  by  neglecting  this  precaution  ;  putting  his 
fingers  to  his  eyes  just  after  rubbing  croton  oil 
upon  a  part  of  the  skin. 


Fever. 

Reminding  the  reader  of  what  was  said, 
a  few  pages  back,  of  the  nature  and  signs  of 
fever,  it  may  be  said  now,  that  what  we 
want  to  do  when  those  signs  {Jieat,  excite- 
7nent  of  the  circulation,  locking  up  of  secre- 
tions, and  weahiess')  are  present,  is,  first,  and 
chiefly,  to  ascertain  and  remove,  if  possible, 
the  cause  of  the  attack.  We  should  also 
try  to  lessen  the  heat,  promote  the  return  of 
the  secretions,  and  support  the  system 
through  its  period  of  weakness. 

To  diminish  heat,  cold  water  is  the  great 
remedy.  Almost  incredible  it  seems,  that 
physicians  were  once  afraid  to  give  cold 
drinks  to  patients  suffering  with  raging 
fever.  A  man  with  small-pox,  two  hun- 
dred years  ago,  was  shut  up  in  a  close 
room,  with  red  curtains  hanging  about  his 
bed,  blankets  piled  on  him  to  promote  pers- 
piration, and,  for  the  same  end,  only  hot  and 
bitter  drinks,  herb  teas,  were  allowed  him  ! 
All  the  world  knows  better  now,  and  follows 
nature's  pointing  better  than  that.  Thirst 
is  an  almost  universal  symptom  of  fever; 
and  frequent  draughts  of  cold  water  are  its 
best  remedy.  Ice- water  is  not  the  best,  at 
least  if  the  draughts  craved  and  taken  are 
large  ;  it  may  be,  to  the  most  advantage,  of 
about  the  temperature  of  deep  well-water ; 
about  50°  to  52°  Fahr.  ;  although  nearer 
the  freezing-point  will  answer  well.  If  the 
stomach  is  very  irritable,  as  is  often  the  case 
in  autumnal  remittent  and  in  yellow  fever, 
small  lumps  of  ice  melted  in  the  mouth  and 
then  swallowed,  at  short  intervals,  will  do 
better  than  drinking  much  water  at  a  time. 

Cold  water  outside  is  a  remedy  naturally 
thought  of;  and  it  may  be  used,  but  care- 
fully. Sudden  chilling  is  not  safe.  Some 
physicians,  especially  in  Germany,  now 
treat  cases  of  typhoid  fever  by  immersing 
the  patient  for  ten  minutes  at  a  time  in  a 
really  cold  bath.  This  seems  to  me  not  a 
plan  to  be  approved.  But  the  sponging  of 
the  face,  arms,  hands,  and,  part  after  part, 
the  whole  body,  with  cold  or  cool  water, 
two  or  three  times  a  day,  is  an  admirable 
means  of  relief  in  fevers  generally.  Its  ser- 
vice is  perhaps  most  marked  in  scarlet  fever, 
when  the  surface  of  the  body  is  ofteq  in- 
tensely hot ;   the  whole  skin  seems   to  be 


274 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


3» 


Inflamed.  Bear  in  mind  the  great  principle  : 
we  want  to  temper,  to  moderate  the  exces- 
sive heat ;  not  to  chill  the  body  below  its 
normal  degree. 

Certain  additions  to  water  as  a  drink  will 
contribute  to  its  refrigerant  action.  Acids 
have  this  tendency.  Lemonade  and  the 
juice  of  oranges  are  generally  suitable. 
Citrate  of  potassium  and  acetate  of  ammo- 
7iium  are  the  medicines  most  sure  to  be  safe 
and  beneficial  for  the  same  purpose ;  the 
former  when  the  bowels  are  natural  or  con- 
stipated, the  latter  when  there  is  a  dispo- 
sition towards  diarrhoea. 

Of  the  secretions,  those  of  the  bowels, 
skin,  and  kidneys  require  attention  in  fever, 
In  most  cases  of  typhoid  fever  and  some 
cases  oi  m.easles,  the  bowels  incline  to  loose- 
ness from  the  start.  When,  in  those  dis- 
eases, they  are  not  moved  at  all  during  the 
first  day  of  the  fever,  a  small  dose  of  a  mild 
purgative  may  be  given  ;  in  typhoid  fever,  a 
teaspoonful  of  castor  oil ;  in  measles,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  citrate  of  magnesium  (solid),  or 
a  half-wineglassful  of  effervescing  solution 
ofcitrate  of  magnesium  ;  or  a  teaspoonful  of 
Rochelle  salt. 

These  are  exceptional  febrile  diseases. 
In  remittent  (autumnal,  bilious,  malarial) 
fever,  a  good  brisk  purging  early  in  the 
attack  with  a  saline  medicine,  such  as  citrate 
of  magnesium  (an  even  tablespoonful,  solid, 
or  a  wineglassful  of  the  solution,  repeated 
in  six  hours  if  it  does  not  operate)  or  Ro- 
chelle salt  (a  tablespoonful),  will  be  pretty 
sure  to  be  useful.  Typhus  fever  requires 
caution,  in  expectation  of  great  weakness  ; 
half  of  the  above  doses  will  be  best  for  its 
treatment.  Scarlet  fever  should  be,  as  a 
rule,  the  occasion  for  a  good  cooling  saline 
dose  on  the  day  the  attack  breaks  out. 

Purgatives  help  to  clear  out  from  the 
bowels  and  from  the  blood  impurities  which, 
while  they  remain,  are  poisonous  to  the  sys- 
tem. But  real  purgation  belongs  in  fevers, 
as  a  part  of  the  treatment,  only  to  the  early 
stage.  After  that,  we  need  merely  to  see 
that  the  bowels  are  not  constipated  ;  a  daily 
moderate  movement  will  sufi&ce.  Some  per- 
sons suppose  that  because  a  sick  person 
takes  only  small  quantities  of  food,  he  does 
not  need  to  have  his  bowels  open  at  all. 
But  the  waste  of  the  substance  of  the  body 


is  going  on  even  faster  than  during  health, 
and  the  discharge  from  the  bowels  comes 
from  this  waste  as  well  as  from  the  refuse  or 
excess  of  food. 

Fever:  Dryness  of  5kin. 

Dryness  of  the  skin  is  a  regular  symptom 
of  fever.  The  most  frequent  exception  to  it 
is  in  the  febrile  state  of  inflammatoiy  I'heu- 
matism ;  in  which  the  skin,  while  hot,  is 
sometimes  quite  moist.  Generally,  the 
dryer  the  skin,  the  worse;  the  coming  of 
moisture  shows  the  subsidence  of  the  fever. 
The  high  heat  and  dryness  are  connected 
together.  Reduce  the  temperature,  and 
perspiration  will  break  out.  Therefore,  the 
cold  drinks  and  (careful)  cold  washing  and 
sponging,  spoken  of  as  appropriate  to  lower 
the  excessive  temperature,  will  serve  also  to 
restore  the  secretion  from  the  skin.  Citrate 
of  potassium,  acetate  of  ammonium,  and 
some  other  medicines  favor  this  effect. 

Diuretics  are  agents  which  tend  to  in- 
crease the  action  of  the  kidneys,  the  flow  of 
urine.  They  are  among  the  more  uncertain 
remedies  ;  they  do  not  always  act  as  we  wish 
them  to.  In  this  they  differ  very  much 
from  purgative  medicines. 

The  salines  already  mentioned  (citrate  of 
potassium  and  acetate  of  ammonium)  arc, 
useful  as  diuretics.  So  are  cream  of  tartar 
and  sweet  spirit  of  nitre.  The  latter  is  very 
often  given  in  fever,  when  the  amount  of 
urine  is  small.  Do  not  forget  that  some- 
times, in  low  fevers,  the  bladder  is  full,  but 
the  patient  cannot  empty  it.  This  must  be 
examined  into.  If  there  is  retention  of  urine, 
it  must  be  drawn  off  with  a  catheter. 

Fever:  Diet  and  Treatment. 

Weakness,  in  fever,  is  not  quite  the  same 
thing  early  in  the  attack  as  towards  its  end. 
In  the  first  place  it  is  an  oppression  of  the 
system  ;  after  a  while  there  is  more  or  less 
exhaustion.  The  first  is  best  relieved  by  the 
means  above  referred  to.  At  that  stage, 
with  persons  of  average  strength,  the 
amount  of  food  taken  may  be  small  and  its 
character  light.  (Persons  always  feeble 
will  need  to  have  concentrated  food  from 
the  beginning.)  As  the  attack  goes  on, 
even  towards  the  end  of  the  first  week  usu- 
ally, and  in    scarlet  fever  and  small-pox 


275 


S3 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


sooner,  the  system  loses  strength,  and  sup- 
port is  necessary.  What  shall  the  means  of 
^hat  support  be  ? 

Liquid,  strotig  food  in  small  quantities 
and  often  is  the  rule.  Milk  (with  lime- 
water  in  it  if  the  stomach  be  very  weak)  and 
beef  tea  are  the  things  to  stand  by.  Strong 
mutton  broth  and  chicken  soup  (with  all  fat 
fully  skimmed  off)  will  do  for  variation. 

Supporting  treatment  for  great  debility 
has  always,  with  physicians,  included  the 
use  of  something  alcoholic,  wine  and  whis- 
key being  mostly  preferred.  Opinion  in  the 
medical  profession  on  this  subject  has 
tended  of  late  years  (in  the  minds  at  least,  of 
its  safest  leaders)  towards  a  lessening  of  the 
amount  of  alcoholic  stimulation  in  fevers, 
and  towards  resorting  to  it  in  fewer  cases. 
Once  it  was  almost  a  universal  practice  to 
give  whiskey  in  all  cases  of  typhoid,  as  well 
as  of  typhus,  fever.  Now,  many  cases  of 
typhoid  fever  are  found  to  get  through  well 
without  it. 

On  such  an  important  matter,  in  every 
actual  case,  the  judgment  of  a  physician 
should  be  obtained.  The  safest  rule  in 
home  management  of  the  sick  will  be  (unless 
in  extraordinary  emergencies)  not  to  give  or 
take  alcohol  in  any  form  unless  advised  by 
a  competent  physician. 

Cough. 

How  many  different  kinds  and  cases  of 
cough  there  are,  we  have  already  mentioned 
when  considering  it  among  the  symptoms  of 
disease.  It  cannot  be  treated  exactly  alike 
under  all  these  different  circumstances.  As 
a  symptom  it  is  unpleasant,  and  often  weari- 
some ;  and  it  is  well  to  know  of  some  do- 
mestic remedies  which  are  safe  and  useful  in 
many  cases. 

First,  a  dry  cough  must  be  softened  and 
loosened.  The  three  best  home  remedies 
for  this  purpose  are  ipecacuanha,  squills,  and 
wild  cherry  bark.  Of  the  syrup  of  ipecacu- 
anha, for  this  effect  (not  to  cause  vomiting) 
the  dose  is  from  a  quarter  to  a  half  teaspoon- 
ful.  Of  syrup  of  squills,  which  does  best  at 
a  later  stage  than  ipecac,  half  a  teaspoonful 
to  a  teaspoonful.  Of  syrup  of  wild  cherry 
bark,  a  teaspoonful.  This  last  may  be  given 
along  with  syrup  of  ipecac  at  first,  and  with 
Eyrup  of  squills  afterward. 


276 


There  is  also  real  usefulness  in  the  sooth- 
ing effect  upon  cough  of  licorice,  and  of  pure 
and  well-made  candies;  hoarhound  candy 
for  example.  The  advantage  of  these  is 
that  a  little  of  either  can  be  taken  very  often, 
so  as  to  keep  up  a  nearly  constant  influence 
of  the  kind  desired.  Although  such  things 
only  touch  the  swallowing  part  of  the  throat 
(pharynx),  not  the  wind-pipe  {laiynx),  yet 
the  nearness  and  sympathy  of  these  two  sur- 
faces cause  the  extension  of  the  effect  from 
one  to  the  other.  Spencer's  chloramine  pas- 
tilles are  useful  in  this  way. 

After  loosening,  a  wearisome  cough  may 
need  to  be  quieted.  This  must  be  done 
with  care,  since  to  stop  secretion  and  dry  up 
a  cough  will  make  things  worse.  Opium 
and  its  preparations,  including  of  course 
morphia,  have  the  most  power  of  this  kind. 
They  are  often  added  to  cough-mixtures,  to 
be  used  after  free  expectoration  of  phlegm 
has  come  on.  Wistar's  cough  lozenges, 
when  made  after  the  regular  formula,  are 
composed  chiefly  of  licorice,  with  a  little 
opium  added.  Syrup  of  lactucarium,  also, 
is  quieting  to  cough,  and  is  a  milder  narcotic 
than  opium.  It  may  be  used  sooner  and 
with  less  apprehension  of  excessive  effect. 
Compound  tincture  of  benzoin  oft^n  has  a 
very  good  effect,  in  fifteen  to  twenty  drop 
doses,  each  dose  taken  on  a  lump  of  sugar. 

Hemorrhage. 

What  causes  bleeding  must  always  be 
the  first  question.  If  it  is  a  symptom  of  a 
disease,  the  necessity  of  treating  the  disease 
rather  than  the  bleeding  is  plain.  In  such 
a  case,  only  a  large  and  weakening  hemor- 
rhage calls  for  special  measures  on  its  ac- 
count. This  is  true  of  the  bleeding  at  the 
nose  in  the  first  week  of  typhoid  fever,  spit- 
ting of  blood  in  consumption  of  the  lungs, 
vomiting  of  blood  in  ulcer  of  the  stomach, 
and  bleeding  from  hemorrhoids  or  piles.  It 
is  well  to  state  clearly  that  there  are  no  reme- 
dies which  are  always  certain  to  stop  bleed- 
ing from  any  internal  cavity  of  the  body. 

Nose-bleeding. — Often  this  is  rather 
relieving  than  otherwise,  in  full-blooded 
young  people,  who  without  it  would  have 
had  headache.  The  occasion  for  stopping  it 
comes  when  it  is  so  large  in  amount,  or  con- 
tinues so  long  as  to  weaken  by  loss  of  blood. 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


33 


How  shall  we  stop  it  ?  Tell  the  patient 
to  avoid  blowing  his  nose.  Clottmg  (coagu- 
lation) is  the  natural  way  of  stoppage  of  all 
hemorrhages.  Bathe  the  forehead  and  out- 
side of  the  nose  and  cheeks  with  cold  water, 
or  apply  ice  to  the  forehead  (not  too  long 
•it  once,  but  enough  to  cause  the  impression 
of  decided  cold)  ;  or,  if  this  does  not  sufiSce, 
to  the  back  of  the  neck. 

Put  a  plug  of  cotton  well  into  the  nostril 
from  which  the  blood  comes.  If  first  dipped 
lightly  in  a  strong  solution  of  alum,  it  will 
be  more  effectual.  Let  the  person  keep 
quiet,  with  the  head  and  shoulders  raised. 
Holding  both  hands  high  above  the  head  is 
said  to  help  to  stop  bleeding  at  the  nose. 

Only  one  in  a  very  large  number  of  cases 
will  be  really  dangerous.  When  all  the 
above  measures  fail,  a  physician  will  be 
needed,  who  will  effectually  plug  the  bleed- 
ing nostril.  For  this  a  watch-spring  arrange- 
ment is  sometimes  used,  or  an  elastic 
catheter.  If  the  latter,  a  string  (waxed 
ligature)  is  put  through  the  hole  at  the  end 
of  the  instrument,  and  that  is  oiled  and  very 
gently  passed  back  into  the  nostril  until  it 
can  be  felt  at  the  opening  above  the  throat. 
With  forceps  (nippers)  one  end  of  the  string 
is  then  seized  and  brought  out  of  the  mouth. 
A  piece  of  cotton  is  tied  upon  it,  and  then 
the  catheter  and  the  other  end  of  the  string 
are  drawn  out  of  the  nose,  and  the  cotton 
plug  is  held  firmly  against  the  back  of  the 
nostril.  If  still  necessary,  another  plug  may 
be  again  inserted  in  the  front  of  the  nostril. 

Bleeding  in  the  Mouth. 

When  a  tooth  has  been  pulled,  or  in  an 
Infant,  the  gums  have  been  freely  lanced, 
sometimes  considerable  bleeding  will  occur. 
If  from  a  tooth,  a  plug  of  cotton  may  be 
dipped  in  creosote,  or  tincture  of  chloride 
ofiro?i,  and  pressed  into  the  bleeding  cavity 
with  the  end  of  a  bodkin  or  darning-needle. 
Ice  may  be  applied  to  too  freely  bleeding 
gums,  or  they  may  have  put  against  them  a 
soft  rag  with  ahan-water  or  a  solution  of 
Uncture  of  chloride  of  iro7i. 

Spitting  of  Blood. 

Is  it  from  the  lungs,  or  from  the  throat, 

Y^outh ,  or  ■'losirii-  f 

.^3     k  2 


Not  unfrequently,  bleeding  from  the 
nose  goes  backwards,  into  the  throat,  and 
the  blood,  then  hawked  up,  is  naturally  im- 
agined to  come  from  the  lungs,  sometimes 
causing  great  alarm.  Inquiry  and  examin- 
ation will  make  it  clear  whether  this,  or 
bleeding  from  the  mouth,  is  the  case. 

Ulcerated  throats  sometimes  bleed.  The 
ulcer  can  then  be  seen,  in  a  good  light,  if 
the  tongue  is  pressed  down  with  the  handle 
of  a  tablespoon.  This  sort  of  bleeding, 
however,  is  not  at  all  common. 

When  votniting  occurs  before  blood  ap- 
pears, we  ascribe  it  to  the  stomach.  The 
blood  is  then,  usually,  rather  dark  and 
thick  ;  not  fresh- looking. 

If  real  bleeaing  from  the  lungs  takes 
place,  the  blood  is  coughed  up  (perhaps 
quite  softly  and  lightly)  ;  it  is,  as  a  rule, 
bright  red.  Only  a  little  may  come ;  some- 
times merely  streaking  the  expectoration ; 
or  it  may  be  copious  ;  mouthfuls  all  at  once. 
In  this  last  case,  it  is  attended  by  danger  of 
exhaustion  from  the  loss  of  blood. 

No  unprofessional  person  should  think 
of  taking  charge  of  a  serious  hemorrhage 
without  the  aid  of  a  physician,  if  one  can  be 
had.  While  waiting  for  one,  however, 
what  ought  to  be  done  ? 

Put  the  patient  upon  a  bed,  with  the 
head  and  shoulders  comfortably  raised  with 
pillows.  He  must  keep  very  still  and  not 
speak.  Let  a  piece  of  ice  be  taken  into  his 
mouth  every  few  minutes,  and  swallowed 
slowly.  Then  fasten  around  each  arm, 
above  the  elbow,  a  shawl-strap,  if  such  be 
at  hand,  or  a  long  handkerchief,  quite 
tightly ;  leaving  each  on,  however,  only  a 
few  minutes  at  a  time.  If  the  blaeding  does 
not  stop,  let  them  be  tightened  again  and 
again,  several  times.  Should  this  not  suc- 
ceed, and  the  doctor  has  not  yet  arrived, 
similar  straps  or  bandages  may  be  applied  in 
the  same  manner  to  the  lower  limbs,  just 
below  the  knees. 

If  blood  comes  from  the  stomach,  it  may 
be  from  ulceration,  or  cancer;  or  it  may  be 
hysterical  (that  is,  connected  with  general 
nervous  disorder),  or,  in  exceptional  cases, 
may  take  the  place  of  menstruation  which 
is  suppressed.  (^Bursting  of  an  aneruism  of 
the  aorta  is  a  possible  source  )f  hemorrhage, 
either  from  the  stomach  or  ft  jm  the  lungs 


34 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


but  the  existence  of  such  an  aneurism  will 
mostly  have  been  before  discovered  by  an 
attending  physician). 

To  moderate  or  check  large  bleeding 
from  the  stomach,  as  shown  by  free  vomit- 
ing of  blood,  ice  is  the  safest  and  most  hope- 
ful of  remedies.  Keeping  quiet,  and  taking 
the  least  possible  food  in  the  liquid  state, 
are  important,  Boiled  milk  with  lime- 
water  will  be  the  most  suitable  nourish- 
ment ;  or  arrow-root,  tapioca,  etc.  In  the 
absence  of  medical  advice,  no  medicine  had 
better  be  ventured  upon  ;  unless  it  be  swal- 
lowing very  small  amounts  of  solution  of 
alum,  or,  once  in  two  or  three  hours,  a 
single  drop  of  creosote,  dissolved  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  water. 

Intestinal  Bleeding. 

For  hemorrhage  from  the  bowels,  the  same 
kind  of  management  is  applicable  as  that 
appropriate  when  blood  is  thrown  up  from 
the  stomach  ;  as  just  described.     ♦ 

Bleeding  piles  ( hemorrhoids)  are,  of 
course,  troublesome,  but  the  bleeding,  as 
such,  does  not  nearly  always  require  treat- 
ment. If  it  continues  very  freely,  the  patient 
must  lie  still  in  bed,  with  a  piece  of  oil-cloth 
or  rubber -cloth  under  the  lower  sheet.  A 
piece  of  sponge  or  a  napkin  dipped  in  ice- 
water  may  be  held  against  the  fundament. 
If  anything  else  is  to  be  done,  it  ought  to 
be  upon  a  physician's  advice. 

Monthly  Irregularities. 

For  delayed  monthly  courses  it  is  desir- 
able to  produce  a  determination  of  blood 
towards  the  lower  part  of  the  abdomen .  Hot 
foot-baths,  and  warm  hip-  or  sitting-baths, 
are  the  most  effective  means  for  this  end. 
Opening  the  bowels  rather  briskly  with  a 
L,ady  Webster's  or  a  compound  rhubarb 
pill,  or  Warner's  cordial,  or  tincture  of  aloes 
and  myrrh,  will  also  be  helpful  towards  it. 
Especial  care  must  be  taken  that  the  body, 
and  most  of  all  the  feet,  shall  not  be  chilled 
at  such  a  time. 

Permanganate  of  potassium  is  a  good 
promoter  of  regularity  in  menstruation. 
Two  grains  may  be  the  dose,  twice  daily. 
If  it  seems  to  agree  with  the  patient,  it  may 
be  continued  through  a  month  or  two,  dis- 


278 


continuing  at  the  time  ot  the  monthly  re- 
turn, when  that  takes  place. 

For  painful  VLiQ.ns\xVi2iWovL{dysme7iorrhced)^ 
lying  still  is  very  important  from  the  begin- 
ning of  the  attack.  •  Warm  flannels  may  be 
applied  to  the  abdomen.  A  hot  drink  is 
likely  to  be  comfortable,  such  as  this :  Put 
into  half  a  teacupful  of  hot  water,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Warner's  cordial,  a  teaspoonful 
of  compound  spirit  of  lavender,  and  twenty 
drops  of  spirits  of  camphor  ;  stir  them  well 
together  just  before  taking  it.  Should  relief 
not  come  in  an  hour  or  so,  paregoric — a  tea- 
spoonful  at  once — may  be  given.  Few  cases 
will  need  any  stronger  anodyne ;  and  they 
should  be  under  the  care  of  a  physician. 

Menorrhagia\%  excessive  menstrual  flow ; 
a  variety  of  hemorrhage.  The  most  import- 
ant part  of  its  management  is  usually  during 
the  intervals,  to  prevent  it.  Near  the  ex- 
pected time  the  sufferer,  who  has  reason  to 
fear  it,  s-hould  lie  still  in  bed.  When  the 
excessive  flow  comes,  cold  wet  cloths  may 
be  laid  upon  the  abdomen,  the  rest  of  the 
body  being  kept  comfortably  warm.  Only 
a  decidedly  bad  case  will  fail  to  be  thus 
moderated. 

Dropsy. 

For  our  purpose,  in  this  place,  it  may  be 
said  that  there  are  three  classes  of  dropsical 
troubles  :  general  dropsy  {a?iasarca) ,  super- 
fiicial  local  dropsy  {ozedema),  and  local  in- 
ternal dropsies.  After  scarlet  fever,  the 
kind  most  likely  to  come  is  anasarca,  gen- 
eral dropsy.  From  great  weakness  and 
thinness  of  the  blood  tlriere  often  comes 
oedema,  or  local  watery  swelling,  of  the_/^<?/. 
Heart-disease,  liver-disease,  or  kidney-dis- 
ease will  often  bring  on  general  dropsy  ;  but, 
not  infrequently,  liver-disease  will  be  at- 
tended by  abdominal  dropsy  almost  alone. 
Chest  dropsy  is  another  local  internal  form  : 
and  water  hi  the  head  another. 

For  the  cure  of  any  of  these,  the  great 
thing  is  to  find  the  cause,  and  remedy  it,  if 
possible.  Dropsy  is  often,  though  of  course 
not  alvv^ays,  one  of  the  last  results  of  disease, 
which  itself  may  have  continued  for  weeks, 
months,  or  years.  The  best  hope  of  its 
being  cured  is  in  those  cases  in  which  there 
is  not  much  else  the  matter,  and  when  it 
has  not  lasted  long. 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


35 


For  dropsy  as  a  symptom,  when  it  is 
right  to  treat  that,  physicians  give  diuretics 
snA  purgatives .  Of  the  first  may  be  named 
cream  of  tartar,  juniper  berries,  and  squills. 
Cream  of  tartar  (bitartrate  of  potassium) 
acts  also  moderately  on  the  bowels.  Another 
purgative  used  in  this  way  is  jalap,  fre- 
quently given  with  cream  of  tartar.  More 
active  is  what  is  called  the  drastic  cathartic, 
elate?-ium ;  which,  even  in  very  small  dose, 
will  purge  severely.  All  these  medicines, 
indeed  the  whole  treatment  of  dropsy,  o  ^ght 
to  come  under  the  judgment  of  a  skilful 
physician.  Such  an  one,  when  unsuccess- 
ful (as  may  happen)  in  reducing  dropsy  by 
diuretics  and  purgatives,  may  conclude  it 
best  to  tap  the  patient ;  that  is,  to  let  out 
the  water  by  introducing  a  small  tube  into 
the  swollen  part.  This  gives  immense  re- 
lief, sometimes  permanent.  In  a  certain 
number  of  instances  the  fluid  accumulates 
again,  and  the  operation  may  have  to  be  re- 
peated. Tapping  the  abdomen  has  long 
been  an  approved  practice  ;  doing  the  same 
for  effusion  in  the  chest,  after  pleurisy,  has 
latterly  been  found  suitable  in  a  considerable 
number  of  instances  ;  and  even  water  around 
the  heart  (pericardial  effusion)  has  been  so 
relieved  in  some  cases  within  a  few  years. 

Another  relieving  operation  sometimes 
performed  for  great  watery  swelling  of  the 
legs  and  feet  is  to  lance  the  skin  in  a  good 
many  places,  so  as  to  make  the  water  ooze 
out  gradually.  When  this  is  done,  the 
parts  should  afterwards  be  greased  with  cold 
cream  or  tallow,  to  prevent  inflammation, 
which  might  become  erysipelatous  and 
troublesome. 

Prostration :  Debility. 

We  have  seen  already  that  there  is  more 
;han  one  kind  of  weakness  from  disease. 
There  may  be  oppression,  as  in  the  early 
stage  of  almost  any  acute  disorder ;  or  de- 
pression (prostration)  from  a  great  shock, 
such  as  a  railroad  accident,  crushing  a  limb, 
or  from  the  lowering  influence  of  typhus  or 
typhoid  fever;  or  exhaustion,  such  as  will 
be  produced  by  a  large  hemorrhage,  an  at- 
tack of  cholera  morbus,  or  a  severe  disease 
of  some  length  of  continuance. 

For  oppression,  in  a  person  of  good 
constitution    and   strength,    unloading  the 


system  is  needed — by  sweating,  purging, 
and  action  of  the  kidneys. 

For  depression,  support  is  called  for. 
Kxperience  indicates  that  alcoholic  stimula- 
tion is,  in  sudden  or  great  prostration  from 
any  cause,  the  most  effectual.  It  may  en- 
able the  system  to  tide  over  the  time  of 
weakness  and  danger,  so  that  all  will  go  on 
well  again  ;  whereas,  without  it,  the  patient 
may  sink  and  die. 

Alcoholic  stimulation  is  very  often 
abused.  It  is  employed  when  there  is  no 
occasion  for  it,  and  when  required  it  is  fre- 
quently too  great  in  amount.  Every  little 
feeling  of  weakness  does  not  properly  call  for 
a  glass  of  wine  or  whiskey  ;  far  from  it. 
Fainting  is  better  treated  by  fresh  air,  as 
much  as  possible  ;  dashing  or  sprinkling 
with  cold  water  on  the  face,  and  ammonia. 
Smelling  salts  (carbonate  of  ammonium) 
put,  for  a  moment  at  a  time,  under  the  nos- 
trils, will  hasten  recovery  from  a  faint. 
When  swallowing  is  possible,  twenty  or 
thirty  drops  of  the  aromatic  spirit  of  ammonia 
may  be  taken  in  a  wineglassful  of  water. 

But  when  a  person  is  almost  dead  from 
loss  of  blood,  or  an  extensive  burn,  or  the 
shock  of  a  railroad  accident,  with  white 
lips,  shrunken  cheeks,  cold  skin,  and  rapid, 
thready  pulse,  we  need  to  stimulate  with 
alcohol,  but  not  too  much.  A  teaspoonful 
of  whiskey  will  be  enough,  in  many  in- 
stances, repeated  in  ten  or  fifteen  minutes, 
if  the  patient  does  not  show  reaction.  A 
tablespoonful  will  be  a  large  enough  dose  at 
one  draught  in  any  case.  More  will  do  no 
better  towards  stimulation,  and  the  after 
effect  will  be  worse.  Always,  moreover, 
such  stimulation  must  be  withheld  as  soon 
as  the  depression  has  passed  away,  and  then 
the  less  alcohol  he  has  had  put  into  his  sys- 
tem the  better. 

General  Debility. 

After  an  acute  disease  with  fever — as 
scarlet  fever,  measles,  typhoid  fever,  etc. — 
convalescence  is  accompanied  by  more  or  less 
debility.  But  when  everything  goes  well, 
appetite  is  then  strong,  and  the  losses  of  the 
system  are  made  up  by  the  appropriation  of 
food.  A  person  who  was  healthy  before 
such  an  attack  will  commonly  need  no  help 
from  medicines  to  "  build  up  "  again. 
79 


36 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


Running  down  in  strength,  however, 
with  or  without  acute  disease,  and  often 
without  any  fixed  disorder  of  any  great 
organ,  is  not  uncommon,  from  various 
causes.  Too  severe,  monotonous,  and  long- 
continued  labor,  out  of  proportion  to  one's 
strength  ;  worry,  particularly  when  it  pre- 
vents refreshing  sleep  ;  living  in  a  close  air, 
without  change  and  exercise ;  these  are 
some  of  the  conditions  in  which  people  are 
apt  to  get  down  "  below  par  "  in  strength. 

Poverty  of  blood  {anccmid)  is  generally 
present  in  such  cases.  So  is  loss  of  appetite 
and  digestive  power ;  and  nervous  depres- 
sion. These  are  the  three  elements  of  ordi- 
nary continued  debility. 

Treatment  for  Debility. 

To  meet  these,  we  have,  besides  rest 
from  care,  change  of  air,  and  generous  feed- 
ing (all  of  which  are  of  the  greatest  import- 
ance), three  sorts  of  tonics  :  blood-7-cnczverSy 
appetizei's,  and  nervines.  Of  the  first  class, 
referring  to  works  on  Materia  Medica  for 
others,  the  most  valuable,  in  the  generality 
of  cases,  are  iron  and  cod-liver  oil.  To  the 
' second  class  belong;  the  vegetable  bitters,  as 
gentian,  quassia,  columho,  chamomile,  etc.  ; 
and  the  mineral  acids,  as  aromatic  sulphuric 
a«a' (elixir  of  vitroil) ,  and  others.  Under 
the  third  head  may  be  named  quinine  as 
most  largely  and  safely  applicable  to  gen- 
eral debility.  Physicians  also  use,  in  some 
selected  cases,  strychnia  and  phosphorus,  as 
powerful  nervine  tonics;  but  they  are  too 
dangerous  to  allow  in  the  family  medicine 
chest  for  use  without  medical  advice.  One 
preparation,  if  labelled /t'w^/z,  and  kept  out 
of  the  way  of  the  children  and  of  ignorant 
servants,  may  sometimes  find  safe  use  as  a 
tonic  both  to  the  digestive  organs  and  to  the 
nervous  system  ;  ii?icture  of  nux  vomica  ; 
safe  in  the  small  dose  of  ten  drops  twice  or 
.jirice  daily. 

Remedies  for  Special  Diseases. 

We  have  very  few  real  and  certian  speci- 
fics for  the  cure  of  particular  diseases.  The 
great  boast  of  the  medical  profession  is  of  its 
power  to  stop  "  chills  and  fever  "  and  con- 
trol other  kinds  of  malarial  attacks  with 
quinine,  and  with  some  other  preparations 
from  the  same  source,  namely,  the  Penivian 


Bark.  Syphilis  is,  undoubtedly,  curable  in 
the  large  majority  of  cases,  timely  attended 
to,  by  the  skilful  use  of  two  remedies,  mer- 
cury (various  preparations)  and  iodide   of 


njBERCULOUS   LUNG, 


potassium.  Itch  is  always  conquerable  by 
a  sufficient  application  of  sulphur,  in  oint- 
ment or  otherwise. 

Scurvy  is  curable,  without  much  aid 
from  medicines  (tonics  if  any)  hy  fresh  vege- 
table food :  as  potatoes,  onions,  oranges, 
lemons,  etc.  Inflammatory  rheumatism  is 
beneficially  influenced  by  salicylic  acid  and 
alkalies  (potassa,  soda,  lithia)  ;  as  gout  has 
been  long  known  to  be  by  colchicum. 

Besides  antidotes  for  actual  poisons,  and 
medicines  which  kill  or  drive  out  worms 
from  the  bowels,  we  cannot  claim  any  other 
clear  examples  of  special  remedies  for  parti- 
cular diseases.  It  used  to  be  said  that 
iodiiie  is  a  certain  cure  for  goitre  (enlarge- 
ment of  the  thyroid  gland  in  the  neck).  It 
is  no  doubt  generally  serviceable  in  that 
affection  ;  but  it  will  not  always  cure  it. 
Quinine  does  not  always  cure  ague.  It 
"breaks"  the  chills,  but  in  one,  two,  or 
three  weeks  they  may  come  again  ;  and  the 
cure  then  has  to  be  finished  by  a  month  or 
two  of  a  course  of  iron. 

There  has  not  yet  been  discovered  any 
specific  remedy  for  scarlet  fever,  measles, 
whooping-cough,  small-pox,  typhoid  or 
typhus  fever,  yellow  fever,  or  cholera.  All 
these  diseases  must  be.  therefore,  conducted 
through  the  attack  as  safely  as  possible; 
meeting  the  symptoms  as  they  occur,  with 
the  most  reasonable  measures  we  know  of. 


280 


37 


PRINCIPAL  MEDICINES  AND   OTHER  REMEDIES 


For  the  reader's  convenience,  we  will 
now  give  a  brief  account  of  the  principal 
medicine  in  general  use  likely  to  be  par- 
ticularly mentioned  in  the  following,  pages. 
As  they  are  ahlphabetically  arranged,  there 
will  be  no  difficulty  in  finding  any  one  of 
them  for  reference. 

Acetate  of  Ammonium  Solution. — This  is 
a  mild,  moderately  cooling  medicine,  very 
suitable  to  promote  perspiration  duringfever. 
It  is  easily  made  by  dropping  small  pieces 
of  Carbonate  of  Ammonium  into  good  Vin- 
egar, piece  after  piece,  until  it  ceases  to 
bubble  with  effervescence.  (This  proceeds 
from  the  Carbonic  Acid  gas  passing  off, 
being  displaced  by  the  Acetic  Acid  of  the 
Vinegar. 

Dose  of  this  Solution,  a  Tablespoonful 
every  two  or  three  hours.  It  is  preferred 
to  other  sweating  medicines  especially  in 
typhoid  and  typhiis  fevers ;  lozv  fevers,  so- 
called.     It  does  not  act  upon  the  bowels. 

Aconite — Tincture  of  the  Root  of  the 
Monkshood  or  Aconite  plant.  A  deadly 
sedative  poison  in  any  but  very  small  doses. 
It  acts  mainly  on  the  nervous  system,  but 
indirectly  on  the  circulation.  Some  phy- 
sicians use  it  in  many  cases  of  infla^mnatory 
fever,  as  in  that  of  pneumonia,  pleuris3^  etc. 
Dose,  one  or  two  drops,  in  water,  for  a 
grown  person,  every  two,  three,  or  four 
hours.  A  bottle  containing  it  should  be 
labelled  Poison. 

Aloes. — A  powerful  purgative  medicine, 
having  a  particular  tendency  to  act  on  the 
lower  bowel.  Therefore  it  is  not  a  suitable 
cathartic  in  cases  of  Piles.  Yet,  in  a  very 
small,  not  purgative,  dose,  it  is  sometimes 
added  to  other  medicines  for  the  relief  of 
piles.  Its  action  on  the  lower  bowel  makes 
it  more  appropriate  when  delay  of  the 
femir.ine  monthly  flozv  is  treated  by  laxative 
medicines.  The  Ti7icture  of  Aloes  and 
Myrrh  (Elixir  Proprietatis)  has.  been  much 
employed  for  this  end.  Dose  oi  Aloes,  from 
one  or  two  to  ten  or  more  grains.  Dose  of 
Ti7icture  of  Aloes  and  Afyj^rh,  from  one  to 
three  or  four  teaspoonfuls,  in  water. 

Alum. — A  mineral  called  a  salt  by  chem- 
ists. It  contains  either  Ammonium  or  Potas- 
sium with  Aluminium  and  Suipuric  acid  in 

tZ  - 


combination.  (There  is  also  an  Iron  Alum, 
in  .which,  likewise,  Ammonium  is  present.) 
It  is  crystalline,  and  has  a  peculiar  taste, 
easily  recognized  after  making  its  acquaint- 
ance. Alum  is  not  often  given  as  a  medi- 
cine for  the  stomach,  except  as  an  emetic  in 
bad  cases  of  croup.  For  that  purpose,  its 
dose,  in  powder,  is  half  a  teaspoonful,  with 
the  same  amount  of  the  powder,  or  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Syrup  of  Ipecacuanha.  In 
small  dose,  it  is  an  astringent ;  that  is,  it 
tends  to  make  the  tissues  which  it  touches 
shrink  or  contract  together.  Thus  it  helps 
to  lessen  the  swelling  of  the  mucous  mem- 
brane, which  is  inflamed  in  sore  throat,  and 
it  is  much  used  for  that,  either  in  powder  or 
in  solution  as  a  gargle.  The  powder  may 
be  blozvn  into  the  throat  through  a  quill,  or, 
sometimes,  put  on  the  sore  place  with  the 
end  of  one's  finger.  A  gargle  is  made  by 
dissolving  a  piece  as  large  as  a  thumb  in 
half  a  tumblerful  of  water.  It  is  used  by 
taking  a  mouthful  of  it  and  throwing  the 
head  back  withriit  swallowhig  it,  letting  it 
go  as  far  down  into  the  throat  as  it  can 
without  being  swallowed. 

Alum  should  not  be  employed  in  mouth- 
washes,  because,  when  left  long  in  contact 
with  the  teeth,  the  Sulphuric  Acid  in  it  acts 
somewhat  upon  their  enamel.  A  solution 
of  alum  in  pure  water  makes  a  good 
astringent  eye-water,  for  inflammation  of 
the  eyes  an  even  teaspoonful  of  alum  in  a 
tumblerful  of  water  will  be  strong  enough. 

Ammonia. —  Volatile  Alkali  and  Harts- 
horn are  other  names  for  this  substance. 
When  pure,  it  is  a  gas  ;  but  it  is  used  either 
in  the  form  of  the  Solid  Carbonate  of  Am- 
monium, or  in  solution  in  Water  (^Aqua 
Ammonicz),  or  in  Alcohol.  Smelling  salts 
consist  usually  of  the  Carbonate.  Druggists 
keep  a  stronger  and  a  weaker  watery  solu- 
tion of  Ammonia.  The  medicinal  form 
most  used  is  the  Aromatic  Spirit  of  Am.- 
monia  (a  solution  in  Alcohol,  with  Spices). 
This  is  a  stimulant  and  antacid  preparation. 
Its  dose  is  from  ten  to  twenty-five  or  thirty 
drops,  in  water.  Aqtca  Ammonia;  (Water 
of  Ammonia)  is  iised  to  make  Volatile  Lini- 
ment, by  mixing  it  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  Olive  or  I,ard  Oil.     This  liniment  is  ? 


38 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


very  warming  thing  to  rub  into  the  skin  of 
the  throat  for  a  sore  throat,  as  a  counter- 
irritant. 

Arnica — The  tindiwe  of  the  flowers  (or 
of  the  whole  plant)  is  a  popular  application 
for  bruises  and  sprains.  It  is  a  warming 
application,  and  not  suitable  where  the  skin 
is  broken.  Being  poisonous  when  swal- 
lowed in  large  doses,  it  should  be  kept  so 
labelled,  and  so  used  as  to  prevent  mistakes 
with  it. 

Arsenic — A  metal  whose  compounds 
are  poisonous.  The  medical  form  in  which 
arsenic  is  generally  prescribed  by  physicians 
is  the  solution  of  arsenite  of  potassium 
(Fowler's  solution).  Dose,  from  three  to 
ten  drops,  twice  daily :  often  given  for 
chronic  diseases  of  the  skin.  It  should 
never  be  taken  by  an  unprofessional  person, 
without  medical  advice. 

Assafoetida. — A  gum-resin,  of  very  disa- 
greeable odor  and  taste ;  a  good,  mild,  and 
safe  composing  medicine  for  disturbed 
nerves  and  to  induce  sleep.  Assafoetida 
pills,  of  three  grains  each,  may  be  given 
now  and  then  to  hysterical  people.  The 
drug  is  also  good  for  flatulence.  Milk  of 
assafoetida  is  a  very  serviceable  medicine  for 
babies'  colic.    Dose,  a  teaspoonful,  sweetened. 

Bark,  Peruvian.       See  quinine. 

Baths.  —  In  treatment  of  disease,  the 
kinds  of  baths  most  used  are  th^  warm  and 
the  hot  bath.  We  may  call  it  warm  from  90° 
to  96°  Fahr.,  and  hot  from  96°  to  100°.  It 
never  need  be  hotter  than  this  last  figure. 

Warm  baths  are  very  often  useful,  for 
relaxing  and  tranquillizing  the  system.  In 
croup,  convulsions,  and  lockjazv,  as  examples, 
sueh  effects  are  often  well  obtained. 

Hot  Baths  though  less  frequently  called 
for,  are  sometimes  very  serviceable  ;  espec- 
ially in  cold  and  low  states  of  the  system. 
Chronic  rheumatism  is  one  of  the  affections 
likely  to  be  benefited  by  it. 

Hot  Dry  Air  Baths  (Russian  bath)  are 
occasionally  advised  by  physicians,  in  ob- 
stinate prolonged  skin  affections,  etc. 

Vapor  or  Steam  Baths  are  occasionally 
used  for  the  application  of  heat  and  moisture 
to  the  body.  They  are  not  safe  beyond  the 
temperature  of  1 10°,  or  possibly,  for  a  short 
time,  120°.  Moisture  conveys  heat  to  the 
body  much  more  rapidly  than  dry  air  at  the 

28 


same  temperature.  A  steam  bath  may  be 
given,  by  the  patient  being  stripped  of 
clothing,  and  seated  in  a  chair,  wrapped, 
chair  and  all,  in  a  blanket ;  his  head  only 
projecting  above  the  latter.  Then  vapor 
may  be  generated  by  dropping  very  hot 
bricks  into  a  pail  of  water  placed  between  his 
feet.  As  above  said,  care  must  be  taken 
about  the  temperature  ;  and,  on  the  whole, 
it  will  be  hardly  best  to  resort  to  a  vapor 
bath  without  the  advice  of  a  physician. 

Medicated  Baths. — Hot  and  warm  springs, 
as  those  of  Virginia,  are  medicated  by  the 
sulphurous  and  other  contents  of  the  waters. 
Sometimes  they  do  much  good  (bathing  in 
the  waters)  for  chranic  troubles  of  the  liver, 
kidneys,  etc.,  and  rheumatic  joints. 

Belladonna. — This  product  of  the  deadly 
7iightshade  (atropa  belladomia^  is  a  powerful 
narcotic  or  brain  stimulant  drug.  The  ex- 
tract  of  the  leaves  is  most  used  by  physicians 
as  a  medicine,  in  neuralgia,  etc.  Atropia,  a 
very  strong  alkaloid  principle,  is  obtained 
from  the  root.  Its  solution  is  often  dropped 
into  the  eyes  by  oculists,  for  the  examina- 
tion and  treatment  of  affections  of  the  eyes. 
It  enlarges  or  dilates  the  pupils,  giving  them 
a  more  brilliant  appearance.  Ladies  are 
said  to  take  it  sometimes  before  going  into 
company,  to  make  their  eyes  "brighter;" 
whence  the  name,  from  bella  donna,  fair 
lady . 

Dose  of  the  solid  extract,  a  quarter  of  a 
grain  to  a  grain  ;  of  the  tincture,  ten  to 
fifteen  drops.  Solution  of  atropia  for  the 
eyes,  two  to  four  grains  to  a  fluidounce  of 
water,  Neither  should  be  used  without 
medical  advice. 

Benzoin. — A  resinous  substance,  from 
the  styrax,  an  East  Indian  tree.  The  com- 
pound tincture  of  Benzoin  is  a  good  medi- 
cine for  bronchial  cough.  Dose,  fifteen  to 
twenty  drops,  on  a  lump  of  sugar,  every 
three  or  four  hours  ;  or  at  the  beginning  of 
a  spell  of  coughing.  The  same  tincture, 
applied  with  a  camel's-hair  pencil,  is  very 
healing  to  a  sore  nipple  or  a  cracked  lip,  or 
even  2ifss7ire  of  the  anus. 

Bismuth  Subnitrate.  —  A  soothing 
stomachic  medicine.  Dose,  two  to  five 
grains. 

Blackberry  Root. — Country  people  gen- 
erally know  the  astringent  property  of  this  j 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


59 


CANTHARIS   YITTATA. 


but  some  make  a  mistake  in  supposing  the 
berries  to  have  the  same ;  which  they  do 
not.  A  tea  made  by  cutting  up  a  handful 
of  the  root  and  soaking  it  for  two  or  three 
hours  in  boiling  water  (kept  hot)  will 
answer  a  good  purpose  in  checking 
diarrhoea,  in  tablespoonful  doses. 

Blisters. — We  use  mustard-plasters  not 
to  blister,  but  only  strongly  to  warm  and 
stimulate  the  skin. 
For  raising  a  blister, 
cantharides  is  mostly 
resorted  to.  The  old- 
est way  is  to  spread 
the  ointment  of  can- 
thaj'ides  on  a  piece  of 
buckskin,  three  o  r 
four  or  five  inches 
square  ;  cover  this  with  a  piece  of  gauze,  and 
lay  it  on  the  part.  This  will  draw  a  blister 
upon  a  grown  person 
in  four,  five,  or  six 
hours  ;  with  a  child, 
in  two  hours  or  less. 
Then  nip  (do  not  re- 
move) the  raised 
scarfskin  with  the 
point  of  a  pair  of 
scissors,  and  lay  upon 
it  a  soft  muslin  rag  thickly  spread  with  simple 
cerate,  as  a  healing  dressing. 

Once  in  a  while  strangury  (diflSculty  in 
passing  water)  will  follow  the  application 
of  a  blister,  from  some  of  the  cantharides 
being  absorbed  into  the  blood,  and  so  getting 
through  the  kidneys  into  the  bladder. 
Flannel  wrung  out  of  hot  water  applied  to 
the  bladder  and  perineum  (crotch,  just  be- 
tween the  thighs  at  the  pelvis)  ;  spirits  of 
camphor,  taken  in  twenty- drop  doses  ;  and, 
if  the  difficulty  lingers,  a  laudanum  injection 
into  the  bowels,  are  remedies  for  strangury. 
Blue  Pill,  or  blue  mass.  This  is  a  pre- 
paration of  mercury,  one-third  of  the 
strength  of  calomel.  It  is  a  soft  solid, 
easily  made  into  pills.  Apothecaries  usually 
keep  on  hand  three-grain  blue  pills. 

The  best  established  usefulness  of  blue 
mass  is  in  the  relief  of  what  is  called  ' '  bil- 
iousness," when  there  is  a  bitter  taste  in  the 
mouth,  especially  on  awaking  in  the  morn- 
ing ;  with  some  degree  of  nausea  (sick  feel- 
ing at  the  stomach),  and  more  or  less  yel- 


CANTHARIS   VESICATORIA. 


lowness  of  the  tongue  and  of  the  whites  of 
the  eyes  ;  perhaps  of  the  face  or  the  skin 
generally ;  the  bowels  also  being  consti- 
pated, or  the  stools  slate- colored  instead  of 
brown  or  yellowish-brown,  as  is  natural. 
One  or  two  grains  of  blue  pill  at  bedtime, 
and  the  same  again  in  the  morning  or  the 
next  evening,  taking  in  all  from  two  to  four 
grains,  will  do  well,  without  any  risk  of 
salivation,  at  least  in  all  but  one  case  or  so 
in  a  thousand. 

Calomel  is  better  for  a  similar  purpose  as 
a  baby's  medicine.  Indigestion  and  com- 
mencing diarrhoea  in  infants  are  often  much 
helped  by  small  doses  of  calomel ;  powders, 
each  of  which  contains  one-twelfth  of  a 
grain  of  the  medicine,  with  a  grain  or  two 
of  soda  (sodium  bicarbonate)  or  magnesia, 
or  only  sugar  ;  the  last  for  taste,  and  to  give 
substance  to  the  small  dose  of  the  drug. 

Borax. — A  very  familiar  article  this  is, 
in  the  nursery,  for  sore  mouth.  It  is  a  min- 
eral astringent,  milder  than  alum,  and  may 
be  used  more  freely  ;  either  dissolved  in 
water  as  a  wash,  or  in  powder  with  sugar, 
put  with  the  finger  right  on  the  sore  spot  in 
the  mouth. 

Bromides :  Potassium,  Sodium  and 
Lithium.  These  "  bromides  ' '  are  nervous 
sedatives;  tranquillizing  an  excited  brain  in  a 
different  way  from  opium  ;  having  less  sleep- 
compelling  power  than  it.  Bromide  of  potass- 
ium is  largely  prescribed  by  physicians  for 
epilepsy  and  some  less  serious  but  obstinate 
troubles  of  the  nervous  system.  Bromide 
of  sodium  has  the  same  sort  of  effect,  but 
perhaps  is  more  agreeable  to  the  stomach ; 
and  the  same  is  true  of  bromide  of  lithium. 
Bromide  of  ammonium  is  less  often  used  for 
similar  effects.  B7'omo-caffei?ie  often  helps 
nervous  headaches. 

Dose,  of  either,  five  to  fifteen  or  twenty 
grains,  in  water.  The  largest  doses  are 
best  borne  when  taken  at  bedtime.  lyong 
use  of  large  doses  of  either  of  the  bromides 
sometimes  causes  an  eruption  on  the  skin, 
and  some  other  unpleasant  symptoms, 
called  brojnism,  by  physicians.  For  any 
one  who  suffers  greatly  from  the  sting  of  a 
bee,  or  other  insect,  twenty-grain  doses  of 
bromide  of  potassium  may  be  advised. 

Cajuput  Oil. — An  aromatic  greenish  (or, 
when  old,  reddish)  oil,  from  the  leaves  o£ 


283 


no 


TUB  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


an  East  Indian  tree  ;  one  of  the  best  reme- 
dies for  flatulent  colic,  especially  when 
' '  gouty  ; ' '  and  also  for  flying  gout  and 
chronic  rheumatism . 

Dose,  from  four  to  ten  drops,  on  a  lump 
of  sugar,  followed  by  a  drink  of  water. 

Calomel. — Chloride  of  mercury.  See 
above,  under  blue  pill.  Calomel  is  a  white 
powder.  Dose,  from  one-twelfth  of  a  grain, 
for  an  infant,  to  one-half  grain,  one  grain, 
or  sometimes  possibly  more,  for  an  adult. 
Not  to  be  tised  as  a  domestic  viedicine ;  un- 
less, after  experience,  the  very  small  calo- 
mel powders,  for  indigestion  of  infants. 

Camphor. — A  most  useful  gum,  from 
evergreen  tree  native  to  the  south  and  east 
of  Asia.  Everyone  knows  its  white  or 
colorless  transparency,  its  peculiar  odor, 
and  pungent  and  yet  cooling  taste.  It  is 
volatile ;  that  is,  if  left  in  the  air  it  will 
slowly  go  off  in  vapor.  Very  little  of  it 
will  dissolve  in  water.  Campho7--water  is  a 
very  mild  preparation.  Spirit  of  camphor, 
made  with  alcohol,  is  much  stronger. 
Camphor  is  a  composing  medicine  to  the 
nerves ;  somewhat  more  stimulant  than 
assafcetida.    In  very  large  doses  it  is  narcotic. 

Camplwr-water  is  an  excellent  tranquil- 
lizer for  restless  babies  ;  being  also,  like  the 
spices,  warming  to  the  stomach,  and  some- 
what anodyne,  it  is  excellent  in  colic. 
Spirit  of  Camphor  is  best  when  an  anodyne 
effect  is  specially  needed ;  as  in  colic  of 
grown  people. 

Dose  of  Camphor-water,  from  a  teaspoon- 
ful  (an  infant  dose)  to  a  tablespoonful.  Of 
Spirit  of  Camphor,  from  ten  to  thirty  drops  ; 
on  sugar,  and  stirred  in  water,  or  in  a  thick 
syrup,  as  spiced  syrup  of  rhubarb.  When 
dropped  into  water,  the  alcohol  unites  with 
the  water  and  "throws  down"  the  camphor 
in  little  white  flakes. 

Pa7-egoric  is  a  camphorated  tincture  of 
opium. 

Carbolic  Acid. — This  has  no  proper 
place  as  a  domestic  medicine.  It  has  had 
great  popularity  as  a  disinfectant ;  more 
than  it  deserves,  in  comparison  with  several 
other  less  unpleasant  things.  Surgeons 
often  employ  it  in  "antiseptic"  dressings 
and  lotions, 

Cardamon  Seeds,  Compound  Tincture 
of. — A  warming  aromatic  preparation,  often 


added  to  soda,  etc.,  for  .sickness  of  the 
stomach.     Dose,  a  teaspoonful,  in  water. 

Castor=OiI. — Expressed  from  the  beans 
of  the  palma  christi,  a  handsome  plant, 
originally  from  Asia.  It  is  nasty,  decidedly ; 
but  is  a  good,  effective,  and  yet  mild  pur- 
gative medicine.  It  is  the  best  cathartic, 
even  for  babies,  when  any  irritation  of  the 
bozvels  is  present ;  as  in  threatening  of  dys- 
entery, and  in  some  cases  of  colic. 

Dose,  from  a  teaspoonful  to  a  tablespoon- 
ful. The  best  way  to  give  it  is  to  stir  it 
well  with  twice  the  quantity  of  spiced  syrup 
of  rhubarb.  So  mixed,  I  have  had  patients 
to  take  it  without  finding  out  what  it  was. 

Catechu. — An  extract  from  the  wood  of 
an  oriental  tree.  It  is  astringent,  and  is 
very  useful  in  diarrhoea.  Ti?icture  of  catechu 
is  the  best  preparation.  Dose,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful to  a  teaspoonful,  in  water.  An 
excellent  medicine  to  check  troublesome 
dianhoea  consists  of  equal  parts  of  tincture 
of  catechu  and  paregoric ;  of  this  mixture, 
the  dose  is  a  teaspoonful,  repeated  according 
to  the  urgency  of  the  case. 

Cerate. — This  word  means  something 
made  with  wax.  Simple  cerate  is  made  of 
spermaceti,  white  wax,  and  oil  of  almonds. 
It  is  a  very  soothing  and  healing  application 
to  sore  places  of  any  kind,  as  after  a  blister, 
etc.  It  is  harder  than  cold  cream  (ointment 
of  rose  water),  and  this  is  sometimes  a  de- 
cided advantage. 

Chalk  Mixture. — A  convenient  medicine 
for  common  diarrhoea,  made  of  prepared 
chalk,  gum-arabic,  glycerine,  and  cinnamon 
water.  Dose,  a  tablespoonful  for  a  grown 
person.  Most  frequently  something  is  added 
to  make  it  more  "  binding"  or  astringent, 
as  catechu,  paregoric,  etc. 

Chamomile. — This  is  a  plant  with  bitter 
and  aromatic  flowers.  Of  these  a  tea  is 
made  with  boiling  water.  It  may  be  taken, 
half  a  pint  daily,  as  a  simple  appetizer  and 
tonic  in  weak  digestion  or  general  want  of 
strength.  It  is  not,  however,  one  of  the 
strongest  tonics. 

Charcoal. — Powdered  charcoal  is  a  good 
' '  sweetener  "  of  a  stomach  oppressed  with 
flatulence  from  indigestion.  Dose,  half  a 
teaspoonful  to  a  teaspoonful.  It  is  often 
given  with  an  equal  quantity  of  magnesia. 


284 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


4t 


Very  finely  powdered  charcoal  is  also  a 
useful  ingredient  in  tooth-powders ;  on  ac- 
count of  its  cleansing  action. 

Chloral  {cholral  hydrate^. — One  of  the 
medicines  that  promote  sleep.  It  is  less 
powerful  than  opium,  although  a  very  large 
amount  of  it  taken  will  poison  fatally.  It  is 
a  white  crystalline  substance,  of  a  pungent 
taste  and  color. 

Dose,  from  ten  to  thirty  grains  for  an 
adult ;  for  a  child,  one  grain  for  each  year 
of  its  age.  It  should  be  taken  or  given  only 
as  prescribed  by  a  physician  ;  and  when  so 
advised,  left  off  as  soon  as  his  judgment  will 
allow.  The  same  sort  of  danger  attends  its 
use  as  does  that  of  opium,  of  forming  a  chlo- 
ral habit,  depending  upon  it  for  sleep,  and 
requiring  larger  and  larger  doses,  with  at 
last  great  injury  to  the  health. 

Chlorate  of  Potassium  (chlorate  of 
pota«h,  commonly  called). — A  favorite 
medicine  with  physicians  and  others,  for 
sore  mouth  and  so}'e  throat.  It  often  does 
more  good  to  sore  mouths,  in  babies  espec- 
ially, than  anything  else.  But  it  must  not 
be  swallowed  without  limitation.  While 
safe  in  doses  of  a  few  grains,  half-ounce 
doses  of  it  are  dangerous ;  sometimes  even 
producing  death. 

Dose,  for  a  grown  person,  from  ten  to 
twenty  grains  ;  for  a  child,  three  or  four 
years  old,  five  grains  ;  dissolved  in  water. 
Its  solution  also  makes  a  very  good  gargle 
for  sore  throat. 

Chloroforin The  most    prompt   and 

powerful,  but  also  least  safe,  of  the  articles 
used  by  surgeons  as  anaesthetics  ;  that  is,  for 
patients  to  breathe  before  and  during  opera- 
dons,  in  order  to  prevent  them  from  suffer- 
ing pain.  It  may  be  taken  into  the  stomach 
in  larger  quantity  than  by  the  lungs,  with- 
out danger.  In  flatulent  colic,  it  is  often 
very  relieving ;  but  no  more  so  than  cam- 
,phor  and  cuajuput,  as  well  as  opium.  Dose, 
)by  the  mouth,  ten  to  forty  or  fifty  drops  ;  in 
a  large  draught  of  water,  as  it  is  very  pun- 
gent. A  teaspoonful  holds  more  than  200 
drops  of  chloroform. 

I  have  given  it  to  a  number  of  patients 
in  teaspoonful  doses,  without  any  bad  effect ; 
only  sleepiness,  like  that  produced  by  opi- 
ates.    A  chloroform  linim,ent  may  be  safely 


used  as  an  outward  application  for  rheu- 
matic or  neuralgic  pains. 

Cinnamon  Water. — Made  from  the  aro- 
matic bark  of  the  cinnamon  tree  of  the 
East.  It  is  a  pleasant  spicy  solution,  slightly 
astringent ;  good  with  other  things  in  mix- 
tures for  diarrhoea.  Dose,  for  a  child,  a 
teaspoonful. 

Citrate  of  flagnesium.  —  Commonly 
taken  in  effervescent  solution.  It  is  about 
the  least  disagreeable  of  all  purgative  medi- 
cines. Apothecaries  mostly  keep  it  already 
dissolved,  in  tightly  corked  and  wired  bot- 
tles. More  convenient  for  keeping  in  a 
family  is  the  solid  granular  citrate  of  mag- 
nesium i  which  is  to  be  dissolved  when 
taken .  Dose,  of  the  bottled  solution,  a  wine- 
glassful  (more,  or  less,  according  to  the 
amount  of  purging  needed).  Of  the  granu- 
lar citrate,  from  a  teaspoonful  to  a  table- 
spoonful.  In  the  latter  dose,  it  is  quite  an 
active  cathartic  ;  although  not  so  rapid  in  its 
operation  as  some  other  medicines  ;  and  all 
persons  are  not  alike  susceptible  to  its 
action . 

Citrate  of  Potassium. — I^ike  the  citrate 
just  mentioned,  this  has  for  one  ingredient 
citric  acid,  obtained  from  lemon  or  lime- 
juice.  This  is  neutralized  by  potassium  (an 
alkaline  metal)  as  it  may  be  also  by  mag- 
nesium ;  in  each  case  making  what  chemists 
call  salt. 

Citrate  of  potassium  acts  very  slightly, 
if  at  all,  on  the  bowels.  It  is  used  in  solu- 
tion to  cool  the  system  and  promote  secre- 
tion from  the  skin  and  kidneys  in  fever. 
One  way  of  taking  it  is  in  neutral  mixture 
(one  drachm  of  this  citrate  in  four  fluid- 
ounces  of  water)  ;  of  which  the  dose  is  a 
tablespoonful  every  two  or  three  hours. 
Another  way  is  in  effervescent  solution. 
(See  effervescing  draught.) 

Cloves,  Oil  of. — A  strong,  warming 
aromatic,  from  flower-buds  of  the  caryoph^d- 
lus  aromaticus  of  the  East  Indies.  A  hot 
tea  is  sometimes  made  of  cloves,  to  be  given 
in  cholera-morbus. 

If  the  oil  should  be  taken,  for  colic,  its 
dose  would  be  not  more  than  a  drop  or  two, 
on  a  lump  of  sugar,  followed  by  a  drink  of 
cold  water.  The  tea  may  be  made  by  pour- 
ing a  teacupful  of  boiling  water  on  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  cloves,  covering  and  leaving 
85 


4a 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


it  to  stand  for  a  few  minutes.  Dose,  a  des- 
sertspoonful (two  teaspoonfuls,  or  half  a 
tablespoonful) . 

Oil  of  cloves  is  a  good  remedy  for  tooth- 
ache in  a  hollow  tooth.  Wet  a  pledget  of 
cotton  well  with  it,  and  push  it  into  the 
cavity  of  the  tooth  with  the  end  of  a  bodkin 
or  knitting-needle. 

Cocoa  Butter. — Cocoa  butter  is  a  good 
soothing  application  for  bruises  of  any  part 
of  the  body.  It  is  well  always  to  have  it  in 
the  house. 

Cod-Liver  Oil. — Obtained,  as  its  name 
indicates,  from  the  livers  of  codfish.  It  is 
very  nourishing  and  fattening  to  wasted  and 
wasting  bodies,  sometimes  checking  the 
progress  even  of  pulmonary  consumption. 
Its  taste  is  quite  disagreeable.  Dose,  from 
a  teaspoonful  to  a  tablespoonful  (the  latter 
best)  thrice  daily,  for  a  grown  person. 
Many  ways  have  been  tried  to  make  it  less 
unpleasant  to  take  ;  following  it  with  strong 
mint-drops,  mixing  it  in  coffee,  rinsing  the 
mouth  first  with  brandy  or  whiskey,  pour- 
ing it  into  the  froth  of  ale,  etc.  I  doubt 
whether  any  way  (unless  it  is  put  up  in 
f  elaiifie  capsides,  is  better  than  to  salt  and 
pepper  \\.,  and  then  bolt  it  down  ;  afterwards 
rinsing  the  mouth  with  tincture  of  myrrh 
and  water.  Children  generally  do  not  mind 
taking  it,  unless  their  fears  have  been 
aroused  by  talking  about  it. 

Colchicum. — A  plant  whose  root  and 
seeds  are  both  used  medicinally.  The  wine 
vf  the  7'oot  is  the  best  preparation.  In  large 
dose  it  acts  on  the  bowels  ;  sometimes  irri- 
tating the  stomach  also.  It  is  a  diuretic, 
and  influences  the  nervous  system  in  a  way 
not  very  well  defined.  It  was  formerly  the 
favorite  medicine  in  goiii ;  and  probably 
does  as  much  as  any  medi  ine  towards  cur- 
ing or  mitigating  gouty  attacks.  Dose  of 
the  wine  of  the  root  of  colchicum,  ten  or 
'hirty  drops,  in  water. 

Cold  Cream. — This  is  the  iinguejituvt 
aqnoe  rosce  (ointment  of  rose-water)  of  the 
apothecaries.  It  is  a  soft,  easily  melted, 
and  very  soothing  application  for  sore 
places,  chapped  hands  or  lips,  etc  It  be- 
comes rancid  when  long  kept  exposed  to 
the  air. 

Collodion. — This  is  a  somtion  of  gun- 
!octon  in  ether.     When  it  is  painted  upon 


any  surface  the  ether  evaporates,  leaviug  a 

thin  cottony  film.     Flexible  collodion,  made 
a  little  differently,  is  less  apt  to  shrink  to 
gether  in  drying.     It  is  a  convenient  article 
to  cover  a  part  whose  skin  is  broken  OJ 
ulcerated,  as  sore  nipples,  cracked  lips,  etc. 

Col  urn  bo. — {Cahwtba,  root  of  an  African 
plant)  is  one  of  the  simple  vegetable  bitters 
Like  the  rest  of  its  class,  it  is  a  tonic  to  the 
stomach.  It  is  given  sometimes  for  dys- 
pepsia- 
Cream  of  Tartar  (Bitartrate  of  Potas- 
sium.— This  is  a  cooling,  mild  purgative 
salt,  which  also  increases  the  flow  of  urine 
(diuretic).  It  is  very  often  given  in  dropsy. 
Dose,  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls,  stirred  in 
water.     Very  little  of  it  will  dissolve. 

Creosote. — A  product  of  tar.  A  hot- 
tasting,  sooty-smelling  liquid  ;  poisonous  il 
swallowed  in  moderately  large  quantity ; 
burning  the  mouth  or  skin  which  it  touches. 


DIGITALIS  PURPUREA. 


Physicians  advise  it  in  one-drop  doses  foi 
sick  stomach,  ulcer  of  the  stomach,  etc. 

In  domestic  practice  it  should  be  on  hand 
as  the  most  effective  remedy  for  tooihaclie  in 
a  hollow  tooth  The  end  of  a  bodkin  or 
knitting-needle  should  be  wrapped  around 
with  a  little  piece  of  cotton,  and  this  be 
dipped  into  creosote.  Then,  carefully,  the 
cotton  should  be  pressed  into  the  hollow  ol 
\he  aching  tooth.     (It  won't  hurt,  as  ic  at 


286 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


43 


once  kills  the  sensibility  of  the  exposed 
nerve-end  in  the  tooth.)  If  any  spills  over 
and  burns  the  gums  or  lips,  rinse  at  once 
with  cold  water.  Creosote,  so  used,  does 
no  harm  to  the  teeth. 

Digitalis.  —  Foxglove  is  the  common 
name  of  the  pretty  plant  whose  leaves  fur- 
nish this  medicine.  The  titidure  is  most 
used.  Physicians  give  it  often  when  the 
action  of  the  heart  is  too  rapid,  and  perhaps 
irregular.  It  has  also  been  given  in  large 
doses  in  deliritim  tremens.  Its  common  dose 
is  ten  drops,  twice  or  thrice  a  day.  Being 
diuretic,  it  is  sometimes  prescribed  in 
dropsy.  Its  very  powerful  active  principle 
is  digitalin.  Of  this,  if  taken  as  a  medi- 
cine, the  dose  is  one-fiftieth  of  a  grain. 

Dover's  Powder. — Made  oi  ipecacuanha , 
opiu?n,  and  a  cooling  salt  (sulphate  of  potas- 
sium, or  some  similar  compound),  this 
medicine  is  composing  and  diaphoretic. 
Some  persons  find  it  agree  with  them  at  the 
beginning  of  a  severe  cold,  taking  it  just 
before  going  to  bed,  after  a  warm  mustard 
foot-bath.  Dose,  ten  grains ;  containing 
one  grain  of  opium  and  one  grain  of  ipeca- 
cuanha. As  this  is  a  full  regular  dose  of 
opium,  it  needs  to  be  slept,  as  well  as 
sweated,  off.  Better  not  take  Dover's  pow- 
der without  the  advice  of  a  physician ;  at 
least  the  first  time. 

Effervescing  Draught. — This  is  a  cool- 
ing medicine  for  fever ;  the  carbolic  acid  gas 
in  it  also  makes  it  acceptable  to  the  stomach. 
It  is  composed  on  the  following  recipe : 

Dissolve  two  drachms  and  a  half  of  bi- 
carbonate of  potassium  in  four  fluidounces 
of  water.  To  make  a  draught,  pour  out  a 
tablespoonful  of  this  solution,  and  add  to  it 
a  tablespoonful  of  water.  Then  pour  into 
these  a  tablespoonful  of  fresh  lemon-juice. 
It  will  effervesce,  and  should  be  drunk  at 
once.  If  lemon-juice  cannot  be  had,  an 
apothecary  may  furnish  instead  a  solution 
containing  two  drachms  of  citric  acid  in  four 
fluidounces  of  water.  A  tablespoonful  of 
this,  with  one  of  water,  may  take  the  place 
of  lemon-juice. 

Electricity. — Physicians  often  advise  (or 
themselves  personally  apply)  different  forms 
of  electricity  for  the  treatment  especially  of 
paralysis :  also,  for  neuralgia,  chronic  rheu- 
matism ^  old  sprains^  suppressed  menstruation. 


287 


lead  colic,  and  many  other  affections.  Pow- 
erful currents  or  shocks  are  frequently  used 
to  revive  persons  almost  dead  from  drown- 
itig,  suffocation,  or  nai^cotic poisoning. 

Elixir  of  Vitriol. — Aromatic  sulphuric 
acid  is  another  name  for  this,  which  is  often 
prescribed  as  an  appetizer ;  sometimes  also 
for  diarrhoea,  and  occasionally  for  hemor- 
rhages. Dose,  ten  to  fifteen  drops,  in  water ; 
best  taken  through  a  glass  tube,  to  prevent 
its  touching  the  teeth ;  also,  for  the  same 
reason,  washing  the  mouth  out  well  with 
water  after  it. 

Elixir  Proprietatis  (^Elixir  Pro.) — This 
is  an  old  name  for  tincture  of  aloes  and 
myrrh ;  which  has  a  popular  reputation  as 
a  medicine  to  bring  on  the  monthly  courses 
when  delayed  or  suppressed.  Dose,  a  tea- 
spoonful,  in  water,  twice  daily. 

Emetics. — Articles  which  cause  vomit- 
ing. The  most  important  occasion  for  their 
use  is  when  poison  is  known  to  have  been 
swallowed.  Then  the  quicker  and  the  more 
thoroughly  the  stomach  is  emptied,  the 
better. 

Handy  emetics  in  every  house  are  mus- 
tard, a  teaspoonful,  or  salt,  a  tablespoonful, 
in  a  teacupful  of  warm,  not  hot,  water. 
Let  it  all  be  swallowed  at  once  ;  and  follow 
it  in  ten  minutes  with  another  teacupful  of 
warm  water,  if  it  has  not  in  that  time  taken 
effect. 

Among  emetic  medicines,  ipecacuanha 
is  the  mildest  and  safest,  and  it  is  usually 
active  enough.  In  bad  cases  of  croup,  with 
formation  of  membrane  in  the  throat,  alum 
may  be  added  to  it.  Of  powdered  ipecac,  a 
teaspoonful  will  usually  produce  vomiting ; 
of  the  syrup,  a  teaspoonful,  perhaps  needing 
to  be  repeated  ;  of  the  fluid  extract,  half  a 
teaspoonful. 

Tartar  emetic  (tartrate  of  antimony  and 
potassium)  is  too  severe  and  prostrating  an 
emetic  for  use,  at  least  as  a  domestic  medi- 
cine. There  are  other  mineral  emetics  (sul- 
phate of  zinc,  sulphate  of  copper,  etc.) 
which  ought  never  to  be  used  except  under 
medical  advice. 

Epsom  Salts. — Sulphate  0/  Magnesium, 
A  very  unpleasant  medicine  to  the  taste  ;  an 
active,  cooling  cathartic.  It  ^s  (its  nastmess 
apart)  useful  as  a  purgative  in-  some  inflam- 
matory   affections    of  stt-ong   people ;    fo' 


44 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


delicate  patients,  milder  medicines  are  better. 
Dose,  from  a  teaspoonful  to  a  tablespoonful, 
dissolved  in  water. 

Ergot:  Spurred  Rye. — A  growth  on 
grains  of  diseased  rye  plants.  When  taken 
into  the  stomach,  it  has  a  tendency  to  pro- 
mote contraction  of  the  womb  and  of  the 
blood-vessels.  On  account  of  the  first  of 
these  effects,  it  is  given  after  child-birth,  to 
aid  in  the  expulsion  of  the  place)iia  (after- 
birth), and  to  check  hemorrhage.  Its  caus- 
ing contraction  of  the  blood-vessels  is  a 
reason  for  its  being  prescribed  for  various 
hemorrhages,  and  also  in  chronic  inflamma- 
tions :  especially  of  the  spinal  marrow.  The 
wine  of  ergot  is  the  preparation  most  em- 
ployed. Dose,  of  it  or  of  the  fluid  extract, 
from  half  a  teaspoonful  to  two  teaspoonfuls, 
in  water. 

Eucalyptus. — From  the  leaves  of  this 
Australian  tref^  a  tincture  is  made,  as  well  as 
a  solid  extract,  and  the  essential  oil,  enca- 
lyptol.  Lozenges  of  this  drug  are  service- 
able as  a  warming  expectorant,  in  bronchial 
catarrh.  Eucalyptus  is  also  useful  in 
chronic  irritability  of  the  bladder.  Dose  of 
the  tincture,  a  teaspoonful;  extract,  one  to 
ten  grains ;  of  eucalyptol,  ten  to  twenty 
drops,  in  capsules  or  a  mixture. 

FenneUSeed. — A  very  mild  aromatic  ; 
sometimes  made  into  a  tea  for  babies'  colic  ; 
more  often  added  to  scnjia  tea,  or  fluid  ex- 
tract of  senna,  to  keep  the  purgative  medi- 
cine from  griping  the  bowels. 

Flaxseed. — This  makes  a  good  soothing 
drink,  flaxseed  tea,  for  sore  throat.  Pour 
half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  upon  a  table- 
spoonful  of  whole  flaxseed,  and  stir  it  up  for 
a  few  minutes.  Then  let  it  stand  covered 
for  a  few  minutes  more ;  but  do  not  put  it 
on  the  fire  to  boil,  as  that  would  bring  out 
the  oil  (I'.nseed  oil),  which  is  not  good  to 
drink.  What  is  wanted  in  the  tea  is  only 
the  mucilage  of  the  seeds.  L,emon-juice 
and  sugar  added  will  make  flaxseed  tea 
more  agreeable. 

Flaxseed  vieal  makes  a  good  warm  and 
soft  poultice.  Mix  a  sufficient  portion  of 
the  meal  with  hot  water,  into  a  mushy  mass. 
Spread  this  with  a  tablespoon  on  a  piece  of 
thin  flannel  or  old  muslin  ;  then  double  in 
half  an  inch  of  the  edge  all  around,  to  keep 
the  poultice  from  oozing   out.      The   best 


288 


way  to  have  a  poultice  warm  when  put  on, 
is  to  spread  it  on  a  hot  plate,  close  by  the 
person  to  whom  it  is  to  be  applied.  When 
it  is  on,  cover  it  at  once  with  a  piece  of  oiled 
silk,  oiled  paper,  or  thin  rubber  cloth,  to 
keep  the  moisture  in.  Without  this  it  will 
dry  up  very  soon. 

A  very  little  sweet  oil  or  fresh  lard  put 
over  the  surface  of  a  poultice  before  apply- 
ing it  will  make  it  more  soothing  and  more 
easily  removed.  For  the  latter  purpose  a 
piece  of  tarletan  or  gauze  may  be  laid  over 
it  before  it  is  applied.  When  pain  in  the 
part  is  severe,  a  teaspoonful  or  two  of  laud- 
anum may  be  poured  over  the  poultice  be- 
fore putting  it  on. 

Fly = Blister. — A  plaster  of  the  ointment 
of  Spanish  flies  (cantharides),  applied  to 
draw  a  blister  upon  some  part  of  the  sur- 
face of  the  body.  Such  a  remedy  is  only  re- 
quired for  a  rather  severe  case  of  internal 
inflammation,  or  for  that  of  an  eye  or  an 
ear  ;  in  either  instance,  not  during  the  first 
day  or  two  of  the  attack.  In  serious  in- 
flammation of  the  brain,  a  blister  to  the  back 
of  the  neck,  or  even  over  a  large  part  of  the 
shaven  scalp,  is  sometimes  one  of  the  best 
of  remedies. 

A  blister  is  usually  made  by  spreading  a 
piece  of  buckskin,  three  or  four  inches 
square,  with  cantharides  ointment,  covering 
this  with  a  piece  of  thin  gauze,  and  laying  it 
upon  the  part.  After  from  two  to  five  or 
six  hours  (according  to  age  and  delicacy  of 
the  skin)  the  skin  will  feel  very  sore,  and  on 
taking  the  plaster  off,  the  outer  skin  will  be 
found  to  be  raised  in  a  blister.  This  may  be 
tapped  with  the  points  of  a  pair  of  scissors, 
and  the  part  may  then  be  covered  with  a 
rag  spread  thickly  with  simple  cerate.  It 
will  heal  in  a  few  daj'^s. 

For  inflamed  eyes,  the  back  of  the  neck  is 
the  best  place  for  a  blister ;  for  severe  in- 
flammation of  an  QSiT,just  behind  that  ear  j 
the  plaster  being  cut  to  fit  there. 

Gentian. — A  flowering  plant,  wnose  root 
is  used  in  medicine.  Its  extract  is  made 
into  tonic  pills  (compound  gentian  pills)  for 
indigestion,  and  its  compound  tincture  is  one 
of  the  best  tonic  preparations  given  for 
weakness  of  the  stomach.  Gentian  is  a 
pure  and  simple  bitter  stomachic  tonic. 
Dose    of    the    compound   tincture,   a  tea* 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


45 


spoonful,  in  a  little  water.  As  an  appetizer 
it  is  best  taken  just  before  each  meal.  If 
given  on  account  of  slowness  and  discom- 
fort in  digesting  food,  shortly  after  the  meal 
will  be  the  best  time  for  it. 

Compound  Qentian  Pills,  have  in  each 
jjiil  one  grain  of  extract  of  gentian,  one 
grain  ofrhubarb,  one  quarter  ofa  grain  of  blue 
mass,  and  a  quarter  of  a  drop  of  oil  of  cloves. 

Qeranium. — This  plant  has  an  astring- 
ent root,  of  which  a  tea  may  be  made  by 
boiling  an  ounce  (about  two  tablespoonfuls) 
in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water  down  to  a  pint. 
Of  this  the  dose  is  from  a  tablespoonful  to  a 
wineglassful,  given  as  a  country  remedy  for 
diarrhoea . 

Qinger. — A  fine  spice  for  culinary  as 
well  as  medicinal  use.  Jamaica  ginger  is 
the  most  used  with  us.  Essence  of  ginger  is 
a  very  good  medicine  to  have  in  the  house. 
It  is  a  warming  stimulant  to  the  stomach, 
and  aids  greatly  in  relief  of  ordinary 
flatulent  colic.  Dose  ofa  strong  preparation 
of  it  (as  Brown's  essence  of  Jamaica  ginger), 
ten  to  thirty  drops,  in  water.  It  may  also 
be  applied  outside,  over  the  stomach  and 
bowels  ;  wetting  a  piece  of  thin  flannel  well 
with  it,  laying  it  on,  and  covering  it  with 
oiled  silk  to  prevent  too  quick  evaporation. 

Ginger  tea  is  an  old  favorite  stomach- 
warmer.  A  tablespoonful  or  two  of  the 
bruised  root  may  have  a  pint  of  boiling 
water  poured  on  it,  then  leaving  it  to  stand 
covered  for  an  hour  or  so.  We  don't  boil 
aromatic  \.&3&  or  other  preparations,  because 
that  would  drive  off  their  volatile  oils,  which 
are  their  active  principles.  Of  ginger  tea, 
the  dose  is  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  at  a 
time. 

Glycerine. — A  sweet,  transparent  liquid, 
obtained  from  fatty  substances.  Only  pure 
glycerine  (Bower's  or  Price's)  should  be 
used.  Its  principal  employment  is  as  an 
external  application ;  to  chapped  hands, 
ears,  lips,  etc.  To  a  very  delicate  skin  it 
is,  when  pure,  somewhat  irritating.  Add- 
ing the  same  amount  of  rose-water  makes  a 
very  nice  preparation.  Glycerine  and  borax 
mixed  make  a  good  paste  to  put  upon  sores 
in  the  mouth. 

In  teaspoouful  doses,  glycerine  is  gently 
laxative  to  the  bowels.  It  Is  given  some- 
times for  this  purpose  to  children. 


289 


Glycerine  is  antiseptic ;  that  is,  it  tends 
to  keep  dead  animal  matter  (meats,  etc.) 
from  putrefaction  ;  and  to  ward  off  the 
effects  of  decay-poison  upon  or  within  sur- 
faces of  the  body.  It  is  therefore  a  good 
ingredient  in  washes  for  the  parts  involved 
after  child  birth. 

Glycerine  with  tanyiin  makes  a  very  good 
astringent  lotion  for  frosted  feet,  also  for 
enlarged  tonsils,  sore  nipples,  running  from 
the  ears,  and  fissure  of  the  arms.  For  the 
glycerole  of  tannin,  rub  together  one  ounce 
of  tannin  (tannic  acid)  and  four  fluidounces 
of  glycerine,  in  a  mortar;  heat  this  mixture 
gently  (best  in  a  porcelain  dish)  until  a  per- 
fect solution  is  made. 

Qum=Arabic. — A  soothing  (not  nourish- 
ing) material  for  a  drink,  in  cases  of  irrita- 
tion of  the  throat,  or  cough.  It  is  simply 
dissolved  in  water,  a  tablespoonful  to  a  half 
pint.  Some  persons  like  to  chew  and  dis- 
solve the  gum  in  the  mouth  for  the  same 
purpose,  instead  of  licorice  or  candy. 

Hamamelis  Virginiana  is  the  witch 
hazel ;  principal  ingredient  in  Pond's  Ex- 
tract. Tincture  of  Hamamelis  is  much  used 
by  some  physicians  in  England  for  spitti7ig 
blood ;  if  the  blood  comes  from  the  stomach, 
one  drop  of  the  tincture  in  water,  every  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes  at  first ;  after  a  few  doses, 
at  longer  intervals  until  relief  is  afforded. 
If  it  be  hemorrhage  from  the  lu7igs,  the  dose 
of  the  same  tincture  may  be  one  drop  e/ery 
hour  or  two .  Larger  doses  will  cause  throb- 
bing headache  with  some  persons.  It  is 
also  given  for  bleeding  from  the  bowels  or 
from  piles. 

Hoffmann's  Anodyne. — A  strong  warm- 
ing stimulant  to  the  nervous  system, 
with  some  anodyne  or  pain-relieving  power. 
It  is  useful  in  attacks  of  gout  in  the  stomach 
or  heart,  palpitation  from  or  with  weak- 
ness, angina  pectoris  (which  see,  here- 
after), asthma,  etc.  Dose,  a  teaspoonful,  in 
water. 

Hops.-  A  Hop-pillow  is  sometimes  used 
for  sleeplessness.  To  prepare  it,  fill  a  small 
pillow-case  with  hops,  which  have  been 
sprinkled  with  alcohol  to  bring  out  the 
active  principle. 

Tincture  of  Hops,  dose  a  teaspoonful,  is 
a  mild  hypnotic  or  sleep -producer.  Tinc- 
ture of  lupulin  (the  active  principle  of  hops) 


46 


THE  FAMIL  V  DOCTOR 


has  more  power  of  the  same  kind  ;  but  both 
are  far  weaker  in  this  action  than  opium  or 
chloral  and  their  preparations. 

Hot  Water. — Hot  water,  as  a  means  of 
conveying  heat  to  the  interior  of  the  body, 
is  a  stimulant  to  the  stomach,  to  the  great 
nerve  centres  back  of  the  stomach,  and  to  the 
general  blood-circulation.  Hence  the  efficacy 
of  drinking  a  goblet  of  hot  water  at  regular 
intervals,  as  preceding  each  meal.  Like 
rubbiyig,  mustard-plasters ,  or  other  stimu- 
lants applied  to  the  outside  oi  the  body,  such 
internal  excitation  may  make  a  powerful 
and  often  serviceable  alternative  impression. 

Hot  water  is  now  much  used  by  surgeons 
and  obstetricians  for  the  arrest  of  bleeding, 
from  injured  surfaces,  from  the  womb  after 
labor,  etc.  For  this  purpose,  it  should 
have  a  temperature  of  about  120°  Fahr. 

Hunyadi  Janos  Water. — A  laxative 
(mildly  purgative)  mineral  water,  sold  in 
bottles.     Dose,  a  wineglassful. 

Huxham's  Tincture  of  Peruvian  Bark. — 
A  good  tonic  in  feeble  conditions  of  the 
body,  as  in  slow  convalescence  from  an  ill- 
ness, running  down  with  work  in  summer 
time,  etc.  Dose,  a  teaspoonful,  three  times 
a  day,  in  water  ;  best,  a  short  time  before 
each  meal. 

Hydrochlorate  of  Cocaine. — A  prepar- 
ation of  the  active  principle  of  the  leaves  of 
the  South  American  erythroxylon  coca.  It 
has  been  found,  when  applied  (a  few  drops 
of  a  four  per  cent,  solution  in  water)  to  the 
eyeball,  throat,  etc.,  to  render  the  part  in- 
sensible to  pain  ;  so  as  to  greatly  facilitate 
some  surgical  operations. 

Hyoscyamus. — From  the  leaves  of  this 
plant  (henbane)  are  made  a  solid  extract,  a 
fluid  extract,  and  a  tincture. 

Hyoscyamus  is  an  anodyne  ;  a  good  deal 
like  opium  in  its  effects  on  the  system,  but 
weaker  ;  and,  instead  of  constipating,  tend- 
ing to  act  gently  on  the  bowels.  Of  the  ex- 
tract (solid),  the  dose  is  two  or  three  grains. 
Of  the  fluid  extract,  from  two  to  ten  or 
fifteen  drops.  This  last  is  a  very  good 
quieting  medicine  for  the  violent  coughing 
spells  of  severe  whooping-cough. 

Hypophosphites. — Compounds  contain- 
ing phosphorus,  in  a  peculiar  state  of  com- 
bination with  other  medical  substances. 
Much   used  as  an   effective  tonic,    in  low 


290 


states  of  the  system,  is  the  preparation 
called  Fellows''  Hypophosphites.  Dose,  a 
teaspoonful,  in  water,  after  each  meal. 

Ingluvin.— An  extractive  obtained  from 
the  gizzard  of  the  common  fowl,  and,  like 
pepsin,  used  as  a  tonic  to  the  digestive  or- 
gans. Some  physicans  report  it  to  be  very 
effectual  in  relieving  vomiting ;  especially 
the  "morning  sickness"  of  pregnancy. 
Dose,  from  three  to  ten  grains. 

Inhalation. — This  is  breathing  in  vapoi 
of  some  kind ;  which  is  considerably  em^ 
ployed  in  the  treatment  of  diseases,  espec- 
ially of  the  throat  and  lungs  ;  as  well  as  (by 
the  use  of  ether,  chloroform,  and  nitrous 
oxide) ,  to  prevent  pain  during  surgical  or 
dental  operations. 

Smoking  is  a  simple  method  of  inhala- 
tion, acting  most  powerfully  when  long 
pipes  (narghileh,  chibouk)  are  used,  re- 
quiring chest-breathing  to  draw  the  smoke 
through  the  pipe.     Chinese  opium-smokers, 

however, 
Fig.  189.  actually    in- 

hale the  va- 
por o  f  t  h  e 
narcotic  into 
their  lungs. 
Pure  steam 
i  s  soothing 
to  an  irrita- 
t  e  d  throat. 
It  may  be 
inhaled  b  y 
placing  a 
towel,  or  a 
paper  fun- 
nel, over  a 
kettle  which 
is  kept  boil- 
ing ,  and 
breathing 
the    vapor 

which 
emerges 
from  the 
spout.  A  simple  inhaler  may  be  made  of  a 
wide-mouthed  bottle  or  jar,  through  whose 
cork  two  glass  tubes  are  passed,  one  straight, 
the  other  bent  in  the  middle.  The  liquid  tc 
be  inhaled  from  should  not  more  than  half  fill 
the  bottle.  The  straight  tube  should  reach 
down  a  little  below  the  surface  of  the  liquid  . 


CROUP-KETTLE. 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


49 


the  end  of  the  bent  one  should  stop  an  Inch 
or  so  above  it.  Thus,  when  the  patient 
draws  a  breath  from  the  latter,  the  air  which 
he  receives  has  to  pass  through  the  medi- 
cated liquid.  Tar,  creosote,  iodine,  hops, 
laudanum,  etc.,  may  be  thus  inhaled.  A 
volatile  material,  like  ammonia  or  nitrite  of 
amy  I  may  be  inhaled  directly  from  a  bottle, 
small  or  large.  The  former  of  these  is  a  po- 
tent stimulant  in  cases  of  fainting  ;  the  latter 
(nitrite  of  amyl),  often  gives  relief  in  attacks 
of  angina  pectoris. 

Instead  of  vapor,  y?^z^  powders  are  some- 
times blown  into  the  throat.  For  sore 
throat  in  children,  alujn  powder  may  be 
thus  blown  in  with  a  glass  tube  or  a  long 
quill ;  or  with  one  of  the  powder-squirts 
sold  by  apothecaries  for  blowing  borax,  etc., 
into  cracks  to  destroy  insects. 

Atomization  is  the  introduction  of  a 
very  fine  spray  of  liquid  into  the  throat  and 
air  passages.  Such  a  spray  is  made  by  the 
odorators  which  are  used  to  spread  cologne 
or  other  perfumes  in  the  air.  Instruments 
are  made  for  atomizing  in  cases  of  irritated 
throat,  with  which  solutions  oi ipecac,  chlo- 
ride of  ammonium,  etc.,  can  be  applied. 

A  cigarette  for  medicinal  inhalation  may 
be  made  by  the  use  of  a  glass  tube,  six  or 
eight  inches  long.  Near  one  end  of  the 
tube  put  in  a  piece  of  fine  soft  sponge. 
Drop  into  the  tube,  from  the  other  end,  the 
material  to  be  inhaled ;  tar,  creosote,  tinc- 
ture of  iodine,  gum  camphor,  etc.  Then  in- 
sert a  second  piece  of  sponge  near  the  upper 
end  of  the  tube  ;  through  this  the  patient  is 
to  breathe  for  the  inhalation.  Cotton  or 
tissue-paper  will  do  instead  of  sponge  for  the 
purpose. 

Injections  {enema,  e7iemata'). — These  are 
used  for  various  purposes.  Most  commonly, 
into  the  bowels ,  to  empty  the  lower  bowel , 
when  this  is  considered  more  prompt  and 
convenient  than  medicine  by  the  mouth. 
The  old-fashioned  way  was  with  a  large 
syringe,  holding  about  a  pint.  Now,  gum- 
elastic  ball-and-tube  arrangements  are  em- 
ployed, which  one  can  use  himself.  Only 
common  sense  is  necessary  for  the  introduc- 
tion of  the  oiled  end  of  the  tube  of  either 
kind  ;  and  gradual  moderate  force  to  cause 
the  material  to  enter.  It  should  then  be 
kept  by  the  patient  for  five  or  ten  minutes, 

29 


for  an  effectual  operation.  Smaller  syringes, 
of  course,  half  or  quarter  pints,  are  suitable 
for  children .     For  a  child,  warm  water  alone 


ENEMA   SYRINGE, 


will  sometimes  suffice.  A  common  mixture 
for  opening  injections  is  made  by  mixing 
well  together  a  pint  (nearly)  of  soapsuds 
(castile  soap,  at  least  for  delicate  persons), 
a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of 
molasses,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  oil,  either 
sweet  or  castor  oil,  according  to  the  case. 

Injections  are  used  sometimes  to  relieve 
pain,  or  to  check  obstinate  diarrhcea.  Of 
the  former,  the  most  extreme  kind  of  colic, 
passing  a  gravel-stone  from  the  kidney  to  the 
bladder,  or  of  a  gall-stone  through  the  gall- 
duct,  or  strangury ,  or  threatened  abortion 
(miscarriage  during  pregnancy)  are  exam- 
ples. In  dysentery,  as  well  as  in  diarrhoea, 
such  injections  may  be  called  for ;  laudanum 
being  most  frequently  (in  all  the  above- 
mentioned  cases)  so  employed . 

For  a  grown  person,  the  smallest  amount 
likely  to  do  good  in  such  a  way  is  thirty  or 
forty  drops  of  laudanum.  It  is  best  to  mix 
it,  for  injection,  with  a  small  amount  of 
starch  (prepared  as  for  the  laundry,  only 
thin  enough  to  pass  through  a  syringe) ,  and 
then  to  use  a  small  syringe — holding  from 
half  an  ounce  to  two  ounces  only.  The  ob- 
ject here  is  to  have  the  material  injected  to 
remain  in  the  bowel,  as  long  as  it  will ;  so 
that  the  anodyne  (laudanum)  may  have  time 
to  take  effect.  Sometimes  great  suffering 
will  justify  sixty-drop  injections  of  laudanum, 


48 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


or  even  more ;  but  such  had  better  be 
used  only  under  the  advice  of  a  physician. 
Other  medicines  also  are  occasionally  pre- 
senced  for  administration  in  the  same  way. 
Now  and  then  four- ounce  enemata  oi  Jiax- 
seed  tea  are  employed  in  dysentery. 

Nourishing  enemata  are  often  resorted 
to,  when,  for  various  reasons,  food  cannot 
be  taken  by  the  mouth.  Half  or  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  will  be  enough  at  a  time  for  this  pur- 
pose ;  as  it  is  important  for  it  to  remain  and 
be  absorbed.  Beef- tea,  milk,  or  raw  eggs 
beaten  up  with  milk,  will  be  the  best  ma- 
terials. Sometimes  pure  fresh  beefs  blood 
is  so  used.  An  example  of  a  nourishing  in- 
jection may  be  the  following  : 

To  five  ounces  of  finely  scraped  meat, 
and  five  and  a  half  ounces  of  finely  chopped 
sweetbread  freed  from  fat,  add  three  or  four 
fluidounces  of  lukewarm  water.  Stir  to- 
gether into  a  pulp.  It  will  be  well  to  wash 
out  the  lower  bowel  with  an  injection  of 
warm  water,  about  an  hour  before  intro- 
ducing a  nourishing  enema. 

It  may  be  mentioned,  in  view  of  a  pos- 
sible emergency  in  the  absence  of  a  phy- 
sician, that  the  instrument  used  for  hypo- 
dermic injection  is  a  small  glass  syringe 
made  for  the  purpose,  ending  in  a  tube  of 
steel  or  silver  to  puncture  the  skin  and  in- 
troduce the  liquid.  Having  drawn  into  the 
syringe  the  amount  to  be  used,  the  skin  of 
the  part  selected  (an  arm,  the  back,  abdo- 
men, a  thigh,  or  the  calf  of  one  of  the  legs) 
is  drawn  up  with  the  forefinger  and  thumb 
of  the  left  hand.  With  the  right  hand,  the 
point  of  the  tube  (after  being  oiled)  is  pushed 
almost  horizontally  through  the  skin,  and 
then  the  fluid  is  rather  slowly  pressed  out  of 
the  syringe.  The  latter  is  to  be  withdrawn 
without  twisting  it ;  all  must  be  done  so  as 
to  cause  as  little  irritation  as  possible. 
From  one-third  to  one-half  of  the  dose  by 
the  mouth  is  the  quantity  of  any  drug  em- 
ployed in  this  way.  Anodyne  and  stimulant 
medicines  are,  more  than  any  others,  used 
hypodermically.  Sometimes  the  habit  of 
taking  hypodermic  injections  of  morphia  is 
acquired,  and  is  as  hard  to  break  as  smoking 
opium  or  laudanum  drinking. 

Iodine. — L2igoV s  iodine  solution ,  the  tinc- 
ture of  iodine,  and  iodide  of  potassium,  all 
have  medical  uses  ;   but  not,  as  a  rule,  in 


292 


domestic  practice.  We  may  except,  per- 
haps, the  outward  application  of  tincture  of 
iodine,  which  may  be^<2/«/d'rtf  upon  the  chest 
(with  a  large  camel 's-hair  pencil)  for  a  con- 
tinual cough  (chronic  bronchitis),  or  may 
be  used  as  a  counter-irritant  in  several  other 
kinds  of  cases. 

Physicians  prescribe  iodine  in  LugoV s 
solutio7i  as  an  alternative  in  scrofula  and  in 
goitre  (which  see  hereafter).  Dose,  ten 
drops,  twice  or  thirce  daily,  in  water. 
Iodide  of  potassium  is  a  very  important 
medicine  in  a  number  of  diseases  ;  most 
particularly  and  certainly  useful  in  consti- 
tutional syphilis,  and  especially  of  all  in 
syphilitic  rheumatism;  also,  in  anuerism  of 
the  aorta.  Dose,  from  five  to  twenty  grains, 
dissolved  in  water,  thrice  dail5^ 

Iodoform. — A  powerful  drug,  kept  in 
the  apothecary  shops  in  the  form  of  a  pow- 
der. Sometimes  prescribed  as  an  internal 
medicine  in  scrofula,  ulcer  of  the  stomach, 
etc.,  in  one-grain  doses  ;  but  it  is  much 
more  often  used  as  an  outward  application. 
It  is  very  healing  to  fo7il  ulcers,  woicnds  not 
doing  well,  syphilitic  sores,  etc.  ;  being  anti- 
septic ;  that  is,  corrective  and  preventive  of 
decay  and  putrefaction.  While,  however, 
a  little  of  the  powder  of  iodoform  may  be 
safely  sprinkled  now  and  then  over  a  foul 
sore,  to  promote  its  cleansing  and  healing, 
it  is  not  safe  to  use  it  without  limit ;  as  a 
large  amount  of  it  absorbed  may  be  even 
poisonous.  A  bottle  or  box  of  it  ought, 
when  kept,  to  be  labelled  poison. 

Ipecacuanha. — This  is  an  active  but  mild 
emetic  in  large  dose.  In  smaller  quantities, 
it  is  an  excellent  loosener  of  cough  (expec- 
torant), and  also  a  promoter  of  perspiration 
(diaphoretic) .  It  is  one  of  the  best  of  reme- 
dies in  dysentry,  in  a  way  not  exactly  ex- 
plained. Used  in  powder  (chiefly  as  an 
emetic,  except  when  made  into  pills),  syrup 
and  wine.  The  syrup  of  ipecac,  ought  to  be 
in  every  family  medicine  chest.  It  is  the 
best  first  medicine  in  croup  and  in  bronchitis 
(a  heavy  cold  on  the  chest,  with  cough  at 
first  dry,  and  needing  to  be  loosened). 
Also,  it  will  answer  as  an  emetic.  Dose^  to 
cause  vomiting,  a  teaspoonful,  repeated  in 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes  if  it  does  not  take 
eSect.  As  a  cough-loosener  (expectorant), 
five  to  ten  drops  for  an  infant,  a  quarter  to 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


49 


a  half  teaspoonful  lor  a  grown  person. 
While  moving  about,  a  quarter  teaspoonful 
will  usually  be  enough  ;  half  a  teaspoonful 
will  not  often  sicken  the  stomach  if  taken 
lying  down,  or  just  before  going  to  bed. 
'Wi^wine  of  ipecac,  is  very  similar  in  effect 
to  the  syrup,  but  is  rather  stronger ;  and 
the  form  of  syrup  has  some  advantage  for 
use  as  an  expectorant  medicine. 

Iron. — There  is  iron  in  the  blood  of 
every  man,  woman,  and  child.  Whether 
we  eve  r  have  too  much  of  it  is  not  certain  ;. 
but,  without  doubt,  many  thin,  pale,  and 
weak  people  have  too  little  of  it.  The  con- 
dition C)i poverty  of  blood  \sz2Xi&d^,  medically, 
''anosmia.'"  Several  preparations  of  iron 
are  used.  The  strongest,  and  also  the  most 
,-convenient  to  keep  and  use,  is  the  tmcture 
of  the  chloidde  of  iron.  Dose,  ten  to  thirty 
drops,  in  water.  The  only  objection  to  it  is 
that  it  has  a  disposition  to  stain  the  teeth 
brown  or  yellow.  This  may  be  prevented 
by  taking  it  through  a  tube  of  glass,  or  of 
two  quills  put  together.  All  druggists  keep 
glass  tubes  for  such  "purposes.  The  tincture 
of  chloride  of  iron  is  somewhat  astringent ; 
and  therefore  is  useful  in  hemorrhages. 

Syrup  of  iodine  of  i?'on  unites  the  prop- 
erties and  influences  of  iron  and  iodine.  It 
is,  therefore,  an  alterative  tonic,  good  in 
many  cases  of  scrofula  and  in  some  other 
chronic  complaints.  An  alterative  medicine 
is  one  which  tends  to  change  the  condition 
of  an  organ,  or  of  the  whole  constitution  ; 
setting  up  its  own  innocent  and  transitory- 
action  instead  of  the  disturbing  and  life- 
shortening  action  of  the  disease.  Dose,  of 
the  syrup  of  iodide  of  iron,  ten  to  thirty 
drops,  in  water,  two  or  three  times  daily. 

Pill  of  carbonate  of  iron  (Vallet's  mass) 
is  a  very  good  form  to  make  up  with  qui^iine 
in  treating  obstinate  cases  of  chills  (inter- 
mittent fever).  Three  grains  of  the  pill  of 
the  carbonate  >of  iron  with  one  grain  of  qui- 
nine, three  times  a- day,  taken  for  a  month, 
after  "breaking' '  the  chills,  will  cure  ninety- 
nine  cases  in  a  hundred  of  that  troublesome 
affection . 

Other  "  chalybeates,"  as  preparations  of 
iron  used  to  be  called  (iron  springs  are  still 
called  chalybeate  waters),  are:  citrate  of 
iron,  a  pretty  red  salt,  not  unpleasant  to  the 
taste,  dose,  five  to  ten  grains  ;  phosphate,  a 

\s  R  '  293 


green  solid,  dose,  five  to  ten  grains  ;  solution 
(liquor)  of  the  nitrate  of  iron,  the  most 
astringent  of  these  preparations,  and  bene- 
ficial in  chronic  diarrhcea  ;  dose,  ten  drops  in 
water,  thrice  daily  ;  solutio-n  (liquor)  oi  sicb- 
sulphate  of  iron,  generally  called  MoJiseVs 
solution  ;  a  good  strong  astringent  for  out- 
ward application,  to  aid  in  stopping  bleeding 
from  any  part. 

Jalap. — This  is  ?  very  active  purgative ; 
too  much  so  for  common  use,  but  sometimes 
valuable  in  particular  cases.  In  dropsy  it  is 
occasionally  prescribed,  along  with  cream 
of  tartar,  or  with  squills.  I  remember  its 
excellent  effect  in  a  ver}'-  bad  case  of  scarlet 
fever,  with  stupor  and  constipation.  Dose, 
ten  to  twenty  grains. 

Juniper. — The  berries  of  the  juniper 
tree  or  shrub  ;  used  in  medicine  is  as  a 
diuretic  in  dropsy.  A  tea  may  be  made  by 
pouring  a  pint  of  boiling  water  upon  half 
an  ounce  of  bruised  juniper  berries,  stirring 
and  then  leaving  it  to  stand  for  half  an  hour 
before  pouring  it  off  or  straining  it.  A 
tablespoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  may  be 
added  ;  and  at  least  half  a  pint  of  this  tea 
may  be  drunk  (a  little  at  a  time)  in  twenty- 
four  hours,  for  dropsy. 

Compoujid  spirit  of  juniper  is  what  phar- 
macists call  an  "  elegant  "  preparation.  It 
has  the  advantage  of  being  given  in  small 
dose,  a  teaspoonful  or  two,  in  water;  and  is 
also,  from  its  stimulant  property,  best  suited 
to  feeble  patients,  or  those  with  delicate 
stornachs. 

Lactucarium. — An  extract  from  the 
common  garden  lettuce  (lactuca).  It  is 
mildly  narcotic  and  anodyne ;  promoting 
sleep  like  opium,  but  with  much  less  power. 
The  syrup  of  lactucarium  (named  Auber- 
giers  syrup),  is  the  most  convenient  pre- 
paration.    Dose,  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls. 

Lady  Webster's  Pills. — The  important 
thing  in  these  is  aloes.  They  are  purgative, 
and,  like  other  aloetic  preparations,  have 
some  efiect  in  promoting  a  tendenc}^  of  blood 
towards  the  pelvic  region  of  the  body. 
They  have  much  reputation  as  aiding  to 
bring  on  delayed  or  suppressed  menstru- 
ation. Dose,  one  pill,  at  night.  Some  per- 
sons find  half  a  pill  enough  to  operate  on 
the  bowels  quite  as  much  as  is  best.  A  few 
will  need  to  take  a  second  pill  for  such  an 


50 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


effect.     It   will  succeed   in  a   considerable 
number,  but  not  in  all  cases. 

Laudanum. — Tincture  of  opium.  One 
of  the  strongest  ot  the  opiate  medicines.  It  is 
therefore  a  powerful  anodyne  and  hypnotic 
{sleep-p?'oducef-) . 

Dosey  for  a  grown  person,  from  fifteen  to 
thirty  drops.  In  diarrhoea,  however,  as 
small  a  dose  as  ten  drops  will  often  answer. 
Children  are  more  affected  by  opiates,  in 
proportion  to  their  age,  than  by  any  other 
kind  of  medicine.  One  drop  will  be  more 
than  enough  for  an  infant  less  than  a  year 
old  ;    at  least  to  begin  with. 

Laudanum  is  often  applied  externally  to 
relieve  pain.  On  a  sound  part  of  the  skin, 
in  a  grown  person,  half  a  teaspoonful  may 
be  so  applied  with  safety  ;  but  only  a  few 
drops  at  a  time,  even  externally,  in  the  case 
of  a  young  child. 

A7iody?ie  injections  into  the  bowels  are 
most  frequently  made  of  laudanum  and 
starch.  (See  injections.)  For  hypodermic 
injection  (under  the  skin)  solution  of  mor- 
phia is  preferred. 

In  keeping  laudanum,  it  should  be  re- 
membered that  it  strengthens  with  age,  by 
evaporation  of  some  of  its  alcohol.  (All 
tinctures  are  made  with  alcohol.)  What  is 
left  at  the  bottv^m  of  an  old  bottle  of  laud- 
anum may  be  two  or  three  times  as  strong 
as  a  fresh  article  would  be. 

Lavender. —  Aromatic  flowers,  well 
known  for  their  pleasing  perfume.  The  only 
preparation  used  as  a  medicine  is  the  com- 
pound spirit  of  lavender.  It  is  an  agreeable 
warming,  gently  stimulating  article ;  good  in 
colic,  sometimes  for  nausea  (sickness  of 
stomach),  and  for  dysvienorrhoea  (painful 
menstruation).  Dose,  a  teaspoonful,  in 
water  ;  often  given  in  hot  water. 

Lead,  Sugar  of. — A  cooling  application, 
often  used  for  inflammatio7is .  Lead-water 
may  be  made  by  dissolving  it  in  water  ;  but 
with  greater  convenience  by  adding  to  water 
the  solution  of  subacctate  of  lead  (Goulard's 
extract) ,  which  is  a  very  strong  liquid  prepa- 
tion.  Of  this  last  one  drop  to  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water  will  be  generally  strong 
enough  for  lead-water.  It  may  be  applied 
to  a  much- inflamed _;Vm/,  or  (outside)  of  the 
eyeball  or  eyelids.  For  the  eyes,  the  best 
way  to  use  it  is  with  a  camel' s-hair  pencil. 


paintitig  the  outside  of  the  closed  lids  fre- 
quently with  it.  It  should  not  be  taken 
internally  except  under  direction  of  a  physi- 
cian .  All  preparatio?is  of  lead  are  poisonous. 
Care  must  be  taken  with  them  accordingly, 
that  none  be  swallowed  unawares. 

Lime-water. — Simply  a  solution  of  lime 
in  water.  Anybody  can  make  it,  by  putting 
pure,  clean,  unslaked  lime  in  pure  water. 
Take  a  large  bottle,  and  press  into  it  enough 
lime  to  fill  about  one-fourth  of  its  depth. 
Pour  in  water  enough  to  fill  it  full,  then 
cork  and  shake  it  awhile.  On  standing,  the 
clear  lime-water  will  be  ready  for  use.  If 
all  the  lime  is  dissolved,  add  a  little  more, 
so  as  to  be  sure  that  the  water  is  saturated  ; 
that  is,  contains  as  much  as  it  will  dissolve. 

Lime-water  is  the  main  stand-by  as  a 
domestic  remedy  for  vomiting,  or  for  nausea 
threatening  it.  Dose,  from  a  teaspoonful  to 
a  tablespoonful.  When  nourishment  is 
needed,  a  tablespoonful  of  milk  may  be 
added  to  one  of  lime  water.  Otherwise,  it 
may  be  diluted  with  an  equal  amount  of 
water,  or  cinnamon-water. 

Lime-water  is  often  added  with  great 
advantage  to  milk  for  babies,  when  they 
have  soiir  stomach  or  diarrlnea,  as  it  is  ant- 
acid and  somewhat  astringent.  A  table- 
spoonful may  be  put  in  every  half  pint  of 
the  child's  food,  so  long  as  such  an  occasion 
exists  for  it.  No  harm  will  be  done  if  it 
should  be  taken  in  that  way  for  days,  or 
even  weeks,  together. 

Liquorice,  also  spelled  licorice.^The 
root  of  an  herb  growing  on  the  shores  of  the 
Mediterranean  Sea.  The  Extract  is  chiefly 
used.  It  is  black,  hard,  and  sweet.  There 
is  also  2i  fluid  extract.  Neither  has  any  im- 
portant property  except  some  soothing  in- 
fluence over  the  lining  membrane  of  the 
throat.  By  ' '  sympathy  of  contiguity  ' '  this 
influence  extends  from  the  gullet  into  the 
windpipe,  and  thus  liquorice  helps  to  soften 
and  loosen  cough. 

Lobelia. — The  leaves  and  tops  of  this 
plant  are  employed  best  in  the  form  of 
tincture.  It  is  a  powerful  sedative  medicine ; 
capable,  like  tobacco,  in  large  doses,  of  pro- 
ducing fatal  prostration.  Its  most  impor- 
tant use  is  for  asthma.  It  is  often  very  re- 
lieving in  attacks  of  that  affection.  It  may 
be  safely  given  (watching  its  effects,  and 
94 


THE  FAMILY  BOCTOR 


51 


stopping  it  at  once  if  vomiting  or  great 
faintness  result)  in  half-teaspoonful  doses, 
every  half  hour  or  hour,  until  three  or  four 
doses,  if  necessary,  have  been  given.  An- 
other way  is  to  give  twenty  drops  of  tincture 
of  lobelia,  with  twenty  drops  of  syrup  of 
ipecac,  every  twenty  minutes,  for  three  or 
four  doses. 

Logwood. — The  reddish  heartwood  of  a 
Central  American  tree.  It  was  once  more 
used  than  now,  as  a  mild  astringent  for 
diarrh(za.  A  tea  may  be  made  of  it  by  boil- 
ing an  ounce  of  it,  with  a  drachm  of  cinna- 
mon, in  a  pint  of  water,  for  ten  minutes. 
Dose,  a  wineglassful  or  less. 

Magnesia. — A  valuable  home  medicine, 
as  an  antacid  laxative .  It  is  particularly  good 
when  there  is  constipation,  with  sick  stomach 
and  headache.  Even  at  the  beginning  of 
diarrhcea  and  cholera  morbus,  it  is  many 
times  the  best  corrective  medicine.  Calcined 
magnesia  is  the  preferred  form.  Water  does 
not  dissolve  it ;  so  it  must  be  stirred  well  in 
a  little  water  when  taken.  Dose,  a  full  tea- 
spoonfull  for  a  grown  person,  if  designed  to 
operate  on  the  bowels.  Much  less  will  do  to 
relieve  acidity  and  nausea.  Magnesia  is  not 
a  good  medicine  to  take  when  one  has  piles; 
as  it  sometimes  produdes  a  burning  in  oper- 
ating freely.  It  is  not,  however,  a  powerful 
cathartic.  Citrate  of  magnesium  has  been 
spoken  of  on  a  previous  page. 

Malt  Extract. — Especially  in  Germany, 
large  use  is  made  of  preparations  under  this 
name.  As  sold  in  this  country,  some  of 
them  are  too  sweet  to  agree  with  the 
stomach.  The  best  is  JohannHoff's  "  Malz- 
Extract ;"  made  in  Berlin,  and  imported  in 
short  thick  bottles.  The  use  of  this  extract 
is  as  a  tonic,  particularly  when  digestion  is 
weak.  It  may  be  taken  at  meals,  a  quarter 
of  a  tumblerful  at  once.  When  taken  at 
bed-time,  it  is  promotive  of  sleep. 

Manna. — A  sweet  substance  obtained 
from  the  trunk  of  the  flowerish  ash  tree,  in 
the  countries  bordering  on  the  Mediterra- 
nean. Its  only  important  use  is  to  open  the 
bowels  of  children  and  delicate  people,  in- 
cluding women  during  pregnancy.  It  may 
be  eaten  like  sugar.  The  dose  is  not  very 
definite  ;  a  little  experience  will  show  how 
much  is  required  for  the  desired  effect 


295 


Mineral  Waters. — These  may  be  classi- 
fied simply  as :  I.  Alkaline.  2.  Saline.  3. 
Sulphurous.  4.  Chalybeate,  containing  Iron. 
5.  Purgative.  6.  Limestone  or  Calcareous. 
7.  Thermal,  /.  <?.,  Warm  or  Hot  Springs. 
While  some  special  properties  and  effects 
upon  the  system  in  states  of  disease  belong 
to  each  of  these  classes  of  waters,  with  dif- 
ferences also  among  the  members  of  each 
class,  they  all  agree  in  exerting  an  alterative 
influence,  which  is  especially  likely  to  be 
beneficial  in  chronic  disorders.  Some  waters 
are  largely  supplied  for  particular  remedial 
uses;  as  the  Apollinaris,  an  agreeable  table 
carbonated  (effervescent)  drink ;  Hunyadi 
Janos,  Piillna,  and  Friedrichshalle,  for  pur- 
gative action ;  Vichy  water  (containing 
soda),  to  relieve  acidity,  etc.  The.  most 
famous  mineral  waters  in  our  country  are 
those  of  Saratoga  (several  kinds,  all  more  or 
\qss  saline  ;  with  more  or  less  sulphur  also, 
or  iron,  iodine,  bromine,  etc) ,  Sharon  (saline 
and  sulphurous,  with  some  iron),  Richfield 
{sulphurous) — all  these  in  the  State  of  New 
York ;  Bedford  (chalybeate,  i.  e,  containing 
iron,  and  purgative),  in  Pennsylvania;  and 
a  remarkable  variety  of  mineral  springs 
among  the  mountains  of  Virginia — White 
and  Red  Sulphur,  Warm  Springs,  Hot 
Springs,  etc.  In  chronic  rheumatism,  liver 
and  kidney  disorders,  obstinate  affections  of 
\)ix^skin,  and  nervous  troubles  of  some  stand- 
ing, the  best  alterative  effects  from  using 
mineral  waters,  internally  or  in  baths,  may 
be  hoped  for.  A  physician's  advice  had 
better  always  be  obtained  before  they  are 
resorted  to  in  cases  of  serious  disease  of  any 
kind. 

Morphia. — It  is  not  necessary  to  have 
morphia  in  the  family  medicine  chest ;  laud- 
anum and  paregoric  will  do  for  opiates  under 
almost  all  circumstances. 

Musk. — A  very  strongly  odorous  sub- 
stance, secreted  by  the  musk-deer  of  the 
Himalaya  Mountain  region,  in  Asia.  It  is 
antispasmodic,  that  is,  composing  to  dis- 
turbed nerves.  Prescribed  sometimes  for 
whooping-cough  and  for  convulsions.  Dose, 
five  to  ten  grains,  in  pill  or  mixture. 

riustard- Plaster. — One  of  the  most  fre- 
quently useful  of  all  domestic  remedies. 
When  anybody  is  suffering  pain,  or,  indeed, 
illness  of  any  kind,  if  you  do  not  know  what 


52 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


to  do,  put  on  a  musiard-piasier,  near  the 
seat  of  the  trouble.  Should  you  not  j5nd 
where  that  is,  put  the  mustard- plaster  on 
the  middle  of  the  back.  If  properly  attended 
to,  it  can  do  no  harm  ;  and  in  ninety-nine 
cases  in  a  hundred  it  will  do  some  good  ; 
sometimes  a  great  deal  of  good. 

To  make  one,  mix  from  one  to  three  or 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard  (either  white 
or  black,  so  called)  with  the  same  amount 
of  wheat  or  Indian  flour.  Mix  these  with 
enough  hot  water  to  make  a  paste.  Then, 
on  a  hot  plate,  near  the  person  who  is  to 
have  it  on,  lay  a  piece  of  soft  old  muslin,  or 
thin  flannel,  twice  as  large  as  the  plaster  is 
to  be ;  but  spread  the  mustard  and  flour 
paste  only  on  half  of  the  rag.  This  done, 
double  the  other  half  over  it,  and  stitch  the 
edges  together,  all  around ;  or,  turn  the 
edges  over  instead,  to  keep  the  stuff  in.  It 
may  be  put  on  at  once,  while  warm,  and 
left  on  until  it  is  felt  to  burn  quite  smartly, 
if  the  patient  is  conscious.  If  not,  it  must 
be  looked  under,  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or 
so,  and,  if  the  skin  is  decidedly  ^ed,  take  it 
off".  As  soon  as  it  is  removed,  lard,  tallow, 
cold  cream,  or  vaseline  should  be  gently 
rubbed  over  it,  or  a  fresh  rag  spread  with  one 
of  them  may  be  laid  upon  the  part.  We  never 
intend  to  raise  a  blister  with  mustard,  it  is 
too  severe.  The  aim  is  just  to  heat  the  skin 
very  actively,  mostly  for  its  use  as  a  counter- 
irritant,  to  relieve  some  irritation  of  an  in- 
ternal organ. 

Ready-made  mustard- plasters  can  be  had 
now  of  pharmacists,  and  are  very  conve- 
nient. One  of  them  has  only  to  be  dipped 
for  a  moment  or  two  in  hot  water,  and  it  is 
ready  to  apply  at  once.  It  is  well  always  to 
have  a  supply  of  these  in  the  house. 

flush  and  riustard  Poultices  are  often 
very  useful  in  inflammatory  and  other  pain- 
ful affections.  They  are  made  with  one 
part  of  mustard  to  four  parts  of  mush  (of 
Indian  meal)  mixed,  and  applied  hot  on  the 
chest  or  abdomen,  as  required,  and  covered 
with  oiled  silk,  or  oiled  paper,  or  rubber 
cloth,  to  retain  the  moisture.  Such  a  poul- 
tice may  stay  on  for  hours,  keeping  up  a 
moderate  and  bearable  excitement  of  the 
skin  (warming  and  counter-irritant)  much 
longer  than  could  be  borne  with  a  strong 
mustard-plaster. 


Myrrh. — A  gum-resin  long  known  for  its 
aromatic  properties.  Internally  given,  it  is 
stimulant  and  tonic,  and  is  an  ingredient  in 
some  preparations  intended  to  act  upon  the 
bowels  or  to  restore  suspended  menstruation. 
For  home  use,  the  tincture  of  myrrh  is  very 
serviceable  in  the  care  of  the  mouth.  A  few 
drops  of  it  in  a  little  water,  say  about  twenty 
drops  in  a  quarter  of  a  tumblerful,  used  as  a 
mouth- wash,  will  correct  a  bad  odor  in  the 
breath.  Such  a  wash  may  be  used  with  ad- 
vantage twice  daily,  in  cleaning  the  teeth. 
When  the  teeth  begin  to  decay,  a  strong 
myrrh  wash,  often  used,  will  check  or  retard 
their  destruction .  If  a  hollow  tooth  becomes 
tender,  and  begins  to  ache,  pure  tincture  of 
myrrh  put  into  it  will  sometimes  stop  the 
trouble  at  the  beginning.  If,  however,  it 
does  not  at  once  give  relief,  the  stronger 
application  of  creosote  should  follow  it. 

Nitrate  of  Silver,  or  huiar  ca%istic. 
Physicians  often  use  this  as  an  alterative 
application  to  the  throat,  eyes,  or  ulcerated 
skin,  in  certain  states  and  stages  of  inflam- 
mation. It  is  also  sometimes  given  in  pill 
as  a  medicine  ;  most  beneficially  in  chronic 
{gastritis)  inflammation  of  the  stomach. 
Dose,  internally,  a  quarter  of  a  grain  (usu- 
ally with  as  much  of  opium),  thrice  daily, 
gradually  increased,  when  it  does  good,  to 
nearly  or  quite  a  grain.  It  was  formerly 
much  employed  in  the  treatment  oi  epilepsy . 
When  long  continued,  it  has  sometimes 
dyed  the  skin,  making  the  face  almost  as 
black  as  ink. 

Nitre. — A  name  for  saltpetre  ;  called  by 
chemists  nitrate  of  potassitim.  It  is  a  cool- 
ing, sedative  salt,  when  taken  internally. 
In  ten-grain  doses  it  is  a  useful  medicine  in 
acjite  bronchial  inflammation  (bronchitis), 
and  might  be  added  with  advantage,  more 
often  than  it  is,  to  cough-mixtures  of  the 
loosening  kind. 

Sweet  Spirit  of  Nitre  (spirit  of  niiro2is 
ether)  is  a  liquid  preparation,  whose  proper- 
ties are  gently  stimulating,  diaphoretic,  diu- 
retic, and  composing  to  the  nerves.     It  has 
long  been  one  of  the  most  popular  of  domes- 
tic medicines  for  fever.     It  does  the  most 
good,   however,  in   the   least  inflammatory 
I  conditions,  and,  when  fever  is  high,  its  dose 
should  not  be  large.     Half  a  teaspoonful  of 
I  it  in  a   tumblerful  of  cold  water,  drunk,  a 
96    ^ 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


53 


little  at  a  time,  as  thirst  prompts,  through 
the  night,  will  be  more  likely  to  relieve  a 
hot  fever,  with  the  coming  of  perspiration, 
than  a  whole  teaspoonful  taken  at  once. 
This  is  because  the  large  doses  ' '  stimulate 
the  circulation  above  the  secreting  point, ' ' 
to  use  an  old  but  true  medical  phrase. 

To  increase  the  action  of  the  kidneys,  as  a 
diuretic,  sweet  spirit  of  nitre  is  very  often 
useful.  For  this  purpose,  ni  the  absence  of 
high  fever,  larger  doses  will  suit  than  when 
that  condition  is  present.  From  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  to  a  teaspoonful,  well  diluted  with 
water,  will  be  a  diuretic  dose  for  an  adult ; 
to  be  repeated  in  a  few  hours,  if  needful. 

Nitrite  of  Amyl  is  a  powerful  agent, 
used  by  inhalation,  from  one  to  four  or  five 
drops  only  at  a  time,  as  a  remedy  for  the 
attacks  or  paroxysms  of  angina  pectoris.  It 
commonly  causes  immediate  flushing  of  the 
face.  If  used,  it  should  be  as  soon  as  the 
attack  (with  distress  and  pain  about  the 
heart,  and  along  the  left  arm)  begins. 

Nux  Vomica. — A  poisonous  seed  or  nut 
whose  active  principle  is  the  alkaloid  strych- 
nia. It  is  best  used  in  extract  or  ti^icture. 
Both  are  bitter  tonics,  with  a  powerful  action 
on  the  nervous  system,  especially  the  spinal 
marrow.  Leaving  what  we  may  have  to 
say  about  this  last  action  until  we  come  to 
strychnia,  it  may  be  mentioned  that  physi- 
cians often  find  extract  of  nux  vomica  a 
good  addition,  in  small  dose  (a  quarter  to 
half  a  grain),  to  tonic  pills  for  continued 
debility.  The  tincture,  in  ten-drop  doses, 
in  water,  is  an  excellent  medicine  for  great 
weakness  ofstoniach,  wAh.  JIatidence .  Larger 
doses  (if  even  these)  should  not  be  ventured 
upon  without  medical  advice  ;  on  account 
of  the  very  powerful  nature  of  the  active 
principle  of  this  drug.  The  tincture  of  nux 
vomica  should  be  marked  "  poison." 

Olive  Oil. — Probably  the  gentlest  of  all 
laxatives  ;  in  teaspoonful  to  tablespoonful 
dvoses.  For  a  delicate  infant,  needing  to 
have  the  bowels  acted  upon,  a  teaspoonful 
is  very  good.  The  imitation  of  true  olive 
oil,  sold  under  its  name,  or  as  "  sweet  oil," 
is  less  bland,  but  will  answer  if  the  genuine 
European  article  cannot  be  obtained. 

Sweet  oil,  saturated  with  camphor  (cam- 
phorated oil),  makes  an  excellent  applica- 
tion for  more  or  less  inflammatory  swelling  ; 

29  .297 


as  for  example,  a  mother's  breast  threaten- 
ing to  become  inflamed  while  she  is  nurs- 
ing ;  or,  more  often,  when  her  infant  ceases 
to  draw  milk,  as  from  illness  or  the  death 
of  the  child. 

Sweet  oil,  with  an  equal  quantity  oi 
aqua  ammonice  (water  of  ammonia)  or  aro- 
matic spirit  of  ammonia,  makes  volatile lini 
ment ;  an  excellent  outward  application  for 
sore  throat. 

Opium. — If  all  the  medicines  in  the  world 
were  to  be  destroyed,  except  three,  and,  we 
could  choose  the  three,  they  should  be  qui- 
nine, opium  and  iron.  The  first  cures  the 
greatest  number  of  cases  of  illness ;  the 
second  gives  the  happiest  relief  to  severe 
pain  ;  and  the  last  does  the  most  to  build 
up  a  debilitated  body.  Of  the  preparations 
oi  opium,  laiidanitni  and  morphia  have  been 
mentioned.  The  dose  of  opium  in  substance 
is  one  grain  ;  equal  to  thirty  drops  of  lauda- 
num, or  a  full  teaspoonful  of  solution  of 
morphia  (not  Magendie's  solution). 

Paregoric  is  the  camphorated  tincture  oj 
opium.     Its  odor  and  taste  are  partly  due 

to  the  oil  of 
anise-seed 
with  which 
it  is  flavored. 
I  t  contains 
only  one 
grain  of 
opium  \\\  2 
tablespoon- 
ful of  pare- 
goric ;  being 
therefore  a 
much  weak- 
er opiate 
than   laud- 

a  n  u  m  ; 
which    has 
about  four 
grains    of 
opium    in 
each    tea- 
spoonful. 
Dose  of  paregoric,  a  teaspoonful,  more  or 
less,  according  to  the  occasion  for  its  use. 
In  diarrhcsa,  for  example,  quarter- teaspoon- 
ful  doses  will   often  answer   the    purpose. 
Smaller  doses,  of  course,  are  suitable  to  give 
to  children. 


POPPY   FLOWER 


54 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


Pepper. — Of  the  two  kinds  used  with 
food,  red  pepper  {capsicum)  is  the  more 
stimulating.  It  is  sometimes  given  by  phy- 
sicians as  a  stimulant,  in  five-grain  pills.  A 
much  more  common  use  for  it  is  to  excite 
the  circulation  of  the  skin,  as  a  rubefacient; 
a  power  which  it  shares  (though  in  less 
degree)  with  mustard.  In  cholera,  when  the 
skin  is  cold,  rubbing  with  whiskey  and  red 
pepper  is  one  of  the  best  things  to  restore 
the  circulation.  It  may  be  employed  for 
the  same  purpose  in  any  analogous,  low 
and  cold,  condition. 

Peppermint. — Essence  of  peppermint  is 
a  pleasant,  warm  aromatic  ;  given  as  good 
for  rf //<:  and  sick  stomach.  Dose,  ten  drops 
for  a  grown  person  ;  for  an  infant,  from  two 
drops  down  to  half  a  drop  (that  is,  add  one 
drop  to  a  desertspoonful  of  water,  and  give 
of  this  a  teaspoonful  at  once) . 

Pepsin. — Hard  to  get  pure.  Given  for 
v\reak  digestion.     Dose,  5  grains. 

Permanganate  of  Potassium. — This 
"salt,"  which  gives  a  beautiful  red  color  to 
water,  has  a  remarkable  action  on  all  organic 
(animal  or  vegetable)  matter.  It  is  one  of 
the  best  disinfectants.  Five  grains  of  it  in  a 
pint  of  water  will  make  a  solution  suitable 
to  wash  out  vessels  used  in  the  sick  room 
with  patients  having  contagious  or  infectious 
diseases.  Internally,  permanganate  of  potas- 
sium is  highly  recommended  (in  two-grain 
doses,  dissolved  in  distilled  water,  twice 
daily)  by  some  physicians  in  amemorrhcea 
(delay  or  suppression  of  the  monthly  courses). 
As  it  sometimes  disagrees  with  the  stomach, 
it  must  be  used  with  care,  and  can  hardly 
be  placed  among  the  domestic  medicines. 

Phosphorus. — Too  dangerous  for  use  as 
a  domestic  medicine,  this  is  sometimes  given 
by  physicians  as  a  powerful  nerve-stimulant. 
Dose,  one-thirtieth  of  a  grain.  Phosphates 
are  safe  compounds,  often  used.  Parrish's 
and  Horsford's  are  very  popular  tonic  pre- 
parations. Of  the  latter  (acid  phosphates), 
the  dose  is  half  a  teaspoonful,  in  water,  just 
before  or  after  a  meal. 

Pink=-Root. — This  American  plant  {Spi- 
gelia  Marylafidica)  is  a  very  good  medicine  for 
worms  {vermifuge).  It  may  be  made  into  a 
a  tea  thus :  Put  together  half  an  ounce  of 
broken  and  bruised  pink -root ;  senna  leaves 
and  fennel  seed,  each  two  drachms  ;  manna, 

298 


one  ounce;  and  boiling  water,  one  pint. 
Let  it  stand  (after  stirring)  covered  for  an 
hour.  Dose,  a  wineglassful  for  an  adult,  half 
a  wineglassful  for  a  child  two  or  three  years 
old,  thrice  daily.  It  is  best  not  to  go  beyond 
these  doses,  as,  in  very  large  amount,  it  acts 
poisonously .  There  is  a  fluid  extract  of  spige- 
lia,  also,  a  convenient  preparation  ;  dose,  a 
teaspoonful ;  and  still  better  (because  the 
senna  makes  it  more  sure  to  pass  off  by  the 
bowels),  the  fluid  extract  of  spigelia  and 
senna ;  dose  of  this  also,  a  teaspoonful, 
repeated  every  two  or  three  hours  until  it 
operates. 

Podophyllin,  ox  Resina  Podophylli — This 
is  an  active  principle  obtained  from  the  root 
of  the  common  May-apple  {podophyllum 
peltatum).  The  powdered  root  itself  may 
be  taken  in  doses  of  ten  to  twenty  grains. 
Of  podophylliyi,  the  dose  is  but  from  one- 
sixth  to  one-half  or  three-fourths  of  a  grain. 
It  is  a  powerful,  though  slowly-acting  cath- 
artic ;  believed  also  to  act  more  than  most 
purgative  medicines  on  the  liver. 

Potassa  (Potash). — Solution  of  potassa 
is  sometimes  given  as  a  medicine  by  physi- 
cians. Caiistic  potassa  (vegetable  caustic) 
is  the  solid  stick,  which,  with  care,  maybe 
used  to  destroy  warts.  More  often,  bicarbon- 
ate of  potassium  is  employed  as  an  antacid, 
in  ten  or  twenty-grain  doses  ;  and  as  an 
ingredient  in  effervescing  dratight  (which 
see) .  This  bicarbonate  is  also  the  salaeratus 
(gaseus  ^alt)  of  the  bakery  ;  as,  like  bicar- 
bonate of  sodium,  it  gives  off  carbonic  acid 
gas  when  an  acid,  such  as  tartaric  acid,  is 
added  to  it. 

Poultices. — These  are  used  to  warm  and 
soften  the    skin,   when 
applied  to    inflamed 
parts  of  the  surface  of 
the  body ;    particularly 
when  a  gathering  (sup- 
puration,   abscess)     i  s 
expected.     Also,    t '"*?)• 
often  do  good  in  cases 
of    internal   injlamma 
tio7i     {pneumonia,     for 
example)  by  favoring  the  return  of  the  blood 
to  the  skin,   and  thus  unloading  the  part 
troubled  with  excess  of  blood. 

Flaxseed,  (linseed),  bran,  mush,  slippery- 
ehn  bark,  charcoal,  chopped  carrots,  and  lye. 


POULTICE,  COVERED  WITH 
GAUZE. 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


55 


are  among  the  materials  most  needed  for 
poultices. 

Flaxseed  meal,  mixed  with  hot  water, 
makes  a  good,  soft  convenient  poultice  for 
common  use  in  ' '  gatherings  ' '  of  different 
parts  of  the  body.  Mix  the  meal  well  with 
enough  hot  water  to  make  it  hold  together 
and  spread  easily,  and  yet  not  too  soft  to 
stay  where  it  is  put ;  a  poultice  should  never 
run.  For  use,  it  should  be  spread  upon  a 
piece  of  flannel  or  muslin  laid  on  a  hot  plate 
or  hot  waiter;  something  hot  near  the 
patient,  so  that  it  will  be  warm  when 
applied.  The  edges  of  the  rag  should  be 
turned  over,  to  the  width  of  about  an  inch, 
to  keep  the  stuff  in,  and  upon  it  may  be 
laid  a  piece  of  thin  and  soft  gauze  or  tarle- 
tan.  The  latter  makes  the  poultice  easier 
CO  remove,  but  is  not  otherwise  necessary. 
A  few  drops  of  sweet  oil  (or  lard  oil)  may 
with  advantage  be  poured,  or  a  little  vasel- 
ine spread,  upon  the  surface  of  a  flaxseed 
poultice.  When /am  is  great,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  to  a  teaspoonful  of  laudanum  may 
be  poured  upon  it.  As  soon  as  the  poultice 
is  put  on  the  part,  it  should  be  covered  with 
a  piece  of  oiled  silk,  oiled  paper,  or  thin 
rubber  cloth,  to  prevent  evaporation,  and 
thus  keep  it  moist.  Without  this,  it  will 
dry  and  become  hard  and  cold  in  a  little 
while.  Bran  will  do  as  a  substitute  for 
flaxseed  meal,  when  the  latter  cannot  be 
obtained. 

Bread  and  mush  poultices  are  made  and 
applied  in  the  same  way.  One  made  with 
crumbs  of  moderately  stale  bread  and  hot 
water  (better  this  always  than  milk,  which 
may  sour  unpleasantly)  is  as  soothing  to  the 
part  as  any  poultice  can  be.  Powder  or 
slips  oi  slippery -elm  bark  are  also  very  soft, 
and  perhaps  more  cooling  to  an  irritated 
skin . 

A  mush  poultice  (of  indian  meal)  is  the 
warmest  kind  ;  very  suitable  for  application 
in  iriternal  inflammations,  as  pneumo?iia, 
pleurisy,  dysentery,  etc.  It  may  be  made  by 
by  using  hot  mush,  prepared  just  as  if  it 
were  to  be  eaten  ;  spread,  applied,  and  cov-' 
ered  in  the  same  way  as  a  flaxseed  poultice. 

In  changing  or  renewing  a  poultice,  be 
sure  to  have  the  fresh  one  warm,  close  by 
the  patient,  so  that  the  part  will  not  remain 
for  a  moment  uncovered.     Should  it  do  so. 


299 


the  chill  caused  might  more  than  undo  all 
the  good  effected  by  the  poultice. 

A  chaf  coal  ■^oulticQ  is  only  suitable  for  a 
nasty,  and  especially  a  mortifying  (gan- 
grenous), part  suffering  from  disease  or  in- 
jury. Finely  powdered  charcoal  should 
be  used ;  two  parts  of  it  with  one  part  of 
Indian  mush.  Warmth  is  not  important 
for  this  kind  of  poultice  unless  the  limb  or 
other  part  affected  is  cold  at  the  time. 
Such  poultices  need  to  be  changed  often. 
Yeast  poultices  are  sometimes  employed, 
but  I  am  quite  doubtful  of  their  beneficial 
action . 

Lye  (ley)  poultices  may  be  made  by  mix- 
ing common  lye  from  ashes,  or  a  druggist's 
solution  of  potassa,  with  flaxseed  or  Indian 
meal.  They  are  not  often  used  nowadays, 
being  formerly  applied  to  punctured  and 
torn  (lacerated)  wounds,  as  a  means  of  pre- 
venting lock-Jaw  (tetanus).  Better,  for  this 
purpose,  is  laudanum,,  applied  directly  to 
the  part.  If  a  lye  poultice  is  so  used,  lau- 
danum should  be  added  to  it. 

Pumpkin  Seeds. — ^These  have  a  de- 
served reputation,  as  capable  of  driving  a 
tapeworm  out  of  the  bowels.  For  such  use, 
an  ounce  (about  two  tablespoonfuls)  of  the 
fresh  seeds  should,  after  removal  of  their 
outer  skin,  be  beaten,  with  a  tablespoon ful 
of  sugar,  into  a  paste,  then  mixed  in  milk 
or  water,  and  drunk,  either  at  once  or  in 
two  draughts  half  an  hour  apart.  Such  a 
dose  should  be  taken  after  fasting  for  from 
twelve  to  twenty-four  hours,  and  should  be 
followed  in  three  hours  by  a  tablespoonful 
dose  of  castor-oil. 

Quassia.-  A  bitter  wood  which  is  a 
good,  simple  stomachic  tonic,  suitable  for 
dyspepsia.  It  is  best  taken  in  the  form  of  a 
tea.  Half  an  ounce  of  it  may  be  boiled  for 
an  hour  or  two  in  a  pint  of  water.  Dose, 
half  a  wineglassful,  two  or  three  times 
daily. 

Quinine — What  is  commonly  so  called 
and  used  in  medicine  is  the  sulphate  of 
q7iinia.  The  alkaloid  quinia  is  the  most 
valuable  of  several  obtained  from  Peruvian 
bark  ;  that  is,  the  bark  of  different  species 
of  cinchona  tree. 

Quinine  is  a  bitter  tonic,  but  not  a 
stomach  tonic  only  ;  it  acts  decidedly,  also, 
on    the    nervov'/;    system.      When  this    is 


56 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


debilitated,  it  will  do  as  much  good  as  any 
medicine,  unelss  in  cases  where  iroji  or 
strychnia  is  suitable,  to  improve  its  tone. 
;3ut  the  heroic  value  of  quinine  is  in  the 
treatment  of  malarial  fevers  ;  that  is,  inter - 
viiitcnt,  remittent,  and  perniaons  (or  con- 
gestive) fevers.  All  of  these  prevail  most 
in  the  autumn,  although  considerably  also 
in  the  spring  of  the  year.  All  of  them  are 
characterized  by  peidodicity ;  that  is,  more 
or  less  regular  spells,  following  each  other  at 
intervals  or  periods.  Chills  occur  either 
once  a  day,  or  every  other  day,  or  on  the 
first  or  fourth  days  ;  sometimes,  only  once 
in  seven  days.  Each  chill,  also,  is  followed 
by  a  fever,  and  that  by  a  sweat.  Remittent 
fever  does  not  go  off  during  the  interval, 
but  only  remits  its  violence ;  hence  its 
name. 

So  marked  is  the  power  of  Peruvian 
bark  and  its  alkaloids,  especially  quinia,  to 
stop  chills,  and  to  cure  remitteiit fever ,  that  it 
may  be  well  called  a  specific  remedy,  even 
an  antidote  for  them. 

Dose  of  quinine,  as  a  simple  tonic  in 
cases  of  weakness,  one  or  two  grains  every 
four  hours,  until  from  six  to  eight  grains 
are  taken  daily.  The  form  of  pills  is  m(  st 
convenient  for  this  use  ;  one-grain  or  two- 
grain  pills.  For  the  cure  of  intermitte7it 
(chills,  ague),  more  is  needed  ;  from  twelve 
to  fifteen  grains  daily  for  about  three  days, 
and  then  lessening  gradually,  to  ten,  eight, 
and  six  grains  a  day,  continuing  the  latter 
for  two  weeks.  In  pernicious  intermittent, 
in  the  Southern  States,  yet  larger  doses  are 
required.  Remitte7it  fever  needs  the  knowl- 
edge and  judgment  of  a  physician  to  deal 
safely  with  it. 

Onchonia  (sulphate)  agrees  with  some 
persons  better  than  quinine.  The  latter,  in 
doses  amounting  to  over  eight  grains  daily, 
makes  many  people's  eaj's  ring,  or  hum,  or 
roar.  Cinchonia  hardly  ever  does  this  ;  at 
least,  in  moderate  doses.  Quinidia  and  cin- 
chonidia  also  suit  certain  patients  the  best. 

The  popular  idea  that  qtiinine  injures 
the  health,  especially  when  long  taken,  is 
entirely  mistaken.  If  prescribed  only  in 
ordinary  doses  (not  more  than  fifteen  or 
twenty  grains  in  twenty-four  hours),  it  does 
no  harm,  and,  in  malarial  cases,  may  often 
save  life,  as  well  as  shorten  the  time  of  sick- 


ness very  much.  In  over-doses,  it  ti.ay 
cause  tempoiary,  or  possibly  permanent 
deafness.  Extreme  doses  might  even  kill, 
by  poisonous  action  on  the  brain  ;  but 
such  amounts  are  never  given  by  phy- 
sicians. I  have  known  quinine  to  be  taken, 
as  much  as  from  six  to  eight,  or  occasionally 
ten,  grains  daily,  by  a  delicate  person,  for 
years  together  with  good  action  as  a  tonic, 
and  no  disadvantage. 

Quinine  may  be  taken  in  malarial  cases, 
whether  there  \iQ  fever  or  not ;  for  example, 
in  periodic  attacks  oi neuralgia.  Other  dis- 
eases, also,  in  certain  localities,  take  on  the 
periodic  form  :  but  for  these  we  must  refer 
to  larger  medical  works. 

Rhatany. — This  is  the  root  oi  kramcria, 
a  South  American  shrub.  It  is  astringent ; 
its  tincture  is  the  best  preparation.  Dose,  a 
teaspoonful,  in  water.  Used  especially  for 
diarrhoea. 

Rhubarb. — The  root  of  an  Asiatic  and 
European  plant,  is  a  gentle  purgative,  with 


RHUBARB    (rheum    PALMATUM). 

also  some  tonic  property,  which  makes  it 
especially  adapted  to  dyspeptic  persons,  and 
others  disposed  to  constipation.  Dose,  for 
such  a  use,  from  three  to  six  or  eight  grains. 
Many  people  buy  the  root  in  pieces,  as  it 
comes  in  the  shops,  and  cut  off  daily  what, 
on  trial,  they  find  to  suffice  for  them.  Eess 
trouble  attends  the  use  of  simple  rhubarb 
pills  ;  one  or  more  as  may  be  necessary  ;  if 
only  one,  bedtime  will  be  the  best  time  to 
take  it ;  if  two,  one  at  night  and  one  in  the 
morning. 

Compound    rhubarb    pills   contain     also 
scammony  and  aloes  (both  strong  cathartics), 


300 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


57 


as  well  as  myrrh.     They  are  at  least  twice 
as  active  as  simple  rhubarb  pills. 

Simple  syritp  of  rhubarb  is  a  very  good 
opening  medicine  for  infants.  Dose,  for  a 
babe,  about  a  teaspoonful. 

Spiced  syrup  of  rhubarb  is  one  of  the 
often  est  useful  of  all  domestic  medicines. 
It  contains,  besides  rhubarb,  cloves,  cinna- 
vion,  nutmeg,  alcohol,  sugar  and  water.  It 
is  therefore  aromatic  and  gently  stimulant, 
as  well  as  promotive  of  action  of  the  bowels. 
This  last  effect,  that  of  a  purgative,  is  so 
slight,  that  it  is  generally  useful  in  correct- 
ing irregular  intestinal  secretion,  and  thus 
curing  diarrhoea,  if  given  at  an  early  stage. 
It  is  also  very  relieving  to  colicky  pain  with 
diarrhoea  ;  and  is  an  excellent  ' '  vehicle  ' ' 
with  which  to  mix  other  medicines  of  nasty 
taste,  as  castor-oil ;  or  those  which  do  not 
readily  dissolve  in  pure  water. 

The  dose  of  spiced  syrup  of  rhubarb  is 
from  a  teaspoonful  to  a  tablespoonful ;  not 
as  a  purgative,  for  which  effect  the  simple 
syrup  of  rhubarb  is  better ;  but  to  correct 
and  relieve  diarrhoea,  especially  when  accom- 
panied with  pain,  at  an  early  stage. 

Rochelle  Salts  :  Tartrate  of  sodimn  ana 
potassium.  A  not  very  disagreeable,  mod- 
erately active,  purgative  medicine ;  one  of 
the  most  convenient  and  suitable  at  the  be- 
ginning of  an  inflammatory  or  febrile  ill- 
ness ;  such  as  bronchitis,  pneiiniofiia,  measles, 
scarlet  fever ,  remitte7it  fever ,  etc.  Dose,  from 
a  teaspoonful  to  a  tablespoonful,  dissolved 
in  a  fourth  or  a  third  part  of  a  tumblerful  of 
water. 

Santonin. — One  of  the  most  ejQfectual 
vermifuges ;  that  is,  medicines  which  either 
kill  or  drive  out  worms.  It  must  be  used 
with  care,  as  excessive  doses  are  violent  in 
their  action  ;  we  may  say  poisonous.  For 
lumbricord  worms,  the  commonest  kind,  one 
grain  will  be  a  dose  for  an  adult ;  a  quarter 
of  a  grain,  or  less  for  a  child.  For  seat- 
worms  (those  small  ones  which  inhabit  the 
lower  bowel;  and  cause  annoying  itching  of 
the  a7ttcs  or  outlet)  suppositories  of  santonin 
are  the  best  remedy.  These  are  made  of 
cocoa  butter,  with  two  or  three  grains  of 
santonin  in  each  ;  one  being  inserted  into  the 
bowel  at  bedtime. 

Sassafras  Pith. — A  very  soft  material, 
which  giv»s  a  soothing  (demulcent)  prop- 

30 


erty  to  water  in  which  it  is  placed.  It  is 
often  used  in  this  way  for  inflammation  of 
the  eyes. 

Seidlitz  Powders. — Made  by  mixing  bi- 
carbonate of  sodium,  and  tartrate  of  potas- 
sium and  sodium  (rochelle  salt),  in  powder 
together,  for  one  paper.  For  another  paper, 
tartaric  acid  is  put  up,  in  proportionate 
quantity.  When  administered,  each  powder 
is  dissolved  in  water,  and  the  two  solutions 
are  poured  together.  It  is  a  mild  but 
prompt  effervescing  purgative,  much  in  use 
before  the  invention  of  the  effervescing  solu- 
tion of  citrate  of  magnesium.  Each  saline 
powder  contains  forty  grains  of  bicarbonate 
of  sodium  (soda)  and  two  drachms  of  Ro- 
chelle salt.  Each  acid  powder  consists  of 
thirty-five  grains  of  tartaric  acid. 

Senna. — The  leaves  of  an  Eastern  plant ; 
an  active  purgative,  with  a  disposition  to 
give  some  griping  pain  in  its  operation. 
This  may  be  prevented  by  adding  fennel 
seed  {an  aromatic)  or  oil  of  fennel  to  it 
when  given. 

Fluid  extract  of  se?tna  is  a  neat  and  not 
very  unpleasant  preparation  ;  with  a  drop  of 
oil  of  fennel  to  each  ounce,  it  is  a  very  good 
laxative  for  infants  or  older  children.  Fluid 
extract  of  spigelia  and  senna  has  been  men- 
tioned already. 

Slippery=Elm  Bark  has  a  demulcent 
property  which  makes  it  soothing  to  an  in- 
flamed or  irritated  part  of  the  body  ;  in  ery- 
sipelas, for  example.  It  is  rather  heavy  to 
the  stomach  for  internal  use  to  advantage. 

Soap. — Castile  soap  is  the  kind  preferred 
when  nicety  is  particularly  desired.  This  is 
used  by  some  people  to  clean  their  teeth.  It 
is  an  ingredient,  also,  in  some  purgative 
pills,  and  is  commonly  employed  for  laxa- 
tive suppositories,  and  to  make  warm  suds 
for  opening  i7ijections. 

A  lather  of  soap,  made  as  for  shaving, 
and  applied  with  a  shaving-brush,  is  oneojf 
the  most  relieving  applications  for  itching  ; 
for  example,  in  poison-vine  eruption,  or 
other  affections  of  the  skin. 

Soap  Liniment. — Camphorated  ti^icture 
of  soap.  An  excellent  bathing  material,  so- 
called  ;  that  is,  for  rubbing  a  part,  to  warm 
and  stimulate  the  movement  of  blood  at  and 
near  the  surface.  It  is  good  for  sore-throat, 
sprains,  etc.,  in  this  way. 


58 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


Soda,  —  Bicarbonate  of  sodium  is  the 
chemical  name  of  the  article  which  is  used 
in  baking  and  washing,  as  well  as  in  medi- 
cine. It  is  an  excellent  and  not  disagree- 
able antacid,  relieving  sourness  of  stomach, 
and  often  nausea  (sickness  of  stomach)  bet- 
ter than  anything  else.  For  such  a  use  it 
may  be  taken,  in  small  quantities.  What 
would  cover  a  little  finger  nail,  if  it  would 
hold  it — 2i  pinch  WQ  may  say — is  an  ordinary 
antacid  dose,  although  twic^;  as  much  may 
be  taken  for  a  single  time.  It  is  often  pre- 
scribed by  physicians  for  gravel. 

Soda  water,  or  mineral  water,  has  no 
soda  in  it,  but  is  made  by  forcing  into  com- 
mon water  carbonic  acid  gas,  given  off  by 
the  bicarbonate  of  sodium  in  solution,  upon 
the  addition  of  an  acid  to  it,  as  sulphuric  or 
chlorohydric  acid. 

5pice=PIasters. — When  a  child's  stom- 
ach is  sick,  or  it  is  obstinately  colicky,  one 
of  the  most  helpful  things  is  a  spice-plaster. 
Take  of  ginger,  cinnamon,  and  cloves,  all 
powdered,  each  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls  ; 
of  wheat  flour,  the  same  amount.  Mix  all 
up  together  on  a  hot  plate,  with  enough 
whiskey  or  brandy  to  make  a  pasty  mass. 
Spread  this  (not  too  thickly,  on  account  of 
its  weight)  on  a  piece  of  thin  flannel,  with 
the  edges  turned  in  over  it  all  round .  When 
applied  to  the  abdomen  (it  had  better  be 
large  enough  to  cover  the  whole  belly),  it 
should  have  laid  over  it  a  piece  of  oiled 
silk,  to  prevent  evaporation.  Then  it  can 
stay  on  several  hours,  and,  when  dry,  may 
be  freshened  up  again  by  adding  a  litle  more 
brandy  or  whiskey. 

Like  the  spice-plaster  in  action,  is  the 
application  of  a  piece  of  flannel  wet  with 
essence  of  ginger,  and  covered  with  oiled 
silk.  This  will  be  somewhat  more  irritating 
to  the  skin  of  young  and  delicate  children 
than  the  spice-plaster. 

Squills, — The  bulb  ol  an  onion-like 
plant,  of  which  the  syrup  is  most  used.  It 
is  an  excellent  cough-medicine  (expecto- 
rant) :  rather  less  loosening  than  ipecac, 
and  therefore  suited  to  a  later  stage  in  a 
bronchial  attack.  Dose,  from  a  half  tea - 
spoonful  to  a  teaspoonful.  This  syrup 
should  be  in  every  medicine-chest. 

In  pill,  squill  is  often  given  as  a  diuretic 


(increasing  the  flow  of  urine).  Dose  for 
this  use,  one  or  two  grains,  three  times 
daily. 

Staphysagria.  —  Stavesacre.  A  drug 
used  in  powder  as  an  effective  parasiticide  ; 
especially  to  destroy  the  eggs  or  ' '  nits  ' '  of 
lice. 

Sulphide  of  Calcium,  in  quarter-grain 
doses  or  less,  has  the  confidence  of  many 
physicians  as  a  remedy  for  boils,  when  one 
boil  keeps  following  another.  A  fresh- 
made  solution,  of  one  grain  in  a  pint  of 
water  will  answer ;  two  teaspoonfuls  being 
taken  every  hour  or  two  for  a  few  days  at  a 
time.  Sulphite  of  sodium,  in  doses  of  from, 
five  to  fifteen  grains,  does  good  in  some 
cases  of  indigestion,  and  perhaps  in  some  of 
boils  or  carbuncles. 

Sulphur. — This  is  a  mild  and  good 
laxative;  particularly  suitable  for  piles,  and 
for  those  persons  who  are  often  troubled 
with  colic.  Dose,  a  teaspoonful ;  in  mo- 
lasses or  milk.  In  recent  cases  of  skin-dis- 
ease, it  is  often  given  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  cream  of  tartar. 

Externally ,  sulphur  is  the  specific  rem- 
edy for  itch  ;  not  the  only  one,  but  the  most 
convenient  and  frequently  used.  It  is  ap- 
plied in  the  form  of  ointment,  rubbed  well 
into  the  seat  of  the  eruption,  where  it  kills 
the  acarus  or  itch-mite,  which  keeps  up  the 
disea^. 

Sulphur,  when  burned,  gives  off  fumes 
of  sulphurous  acid,  which  is  a  potent  disin- 
fectant. A  pound  or  two  of  it  burned  in  a 
large  room  (with  all  the  people  out  of  it,  of 
course,  as  the  gas  cannot  be  breathed), 
with  the  doors  and  windows  closed  for  two 
or  three  hours,  will  do  more  to  purify  it  of 
any  contagion  or  infection  than  anything 
else  that  can  be  done. 

Sulphuric  acid,  in  its  pure  state,  is  not 
used  in  medicine.  Arom-atic  sulphuric  acid 
is  the  elixir  of  vitriol.  This  is  a  good  ap- 
petizer in  ten-  or  twelve-drop  doses,  in 
water.  It  is  also  sometimes  given  for 
diarrhoea  ;  and  has  some  reputation  as  one 
of  the  remedies  for  epidemic  cholera.  A 
drink  made  of  it  is  recommended  to  workers 
in  lead  or  lead  paint,  to  prevent  the  poison- 
ous action  of  that  metal ;  as  the  sulphate  of 
lead  (compound  of  lead  with  sulphuric  acid) 


30: 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


59 


Is  insoluble  iti  water,  and  without  much  if  | 
any  poisonous  influence  upon  the  body. 

Suppositories  are  small,  soft  solids, 
made  for  introduction  into  the  lower  bowel. 
Brown  soap  is  sometimes  so  used  instead  of 
an  opening  injection  (enema).  A  piece  of 
it  or  of  castile  soap  may  be  cut  of  about  the 
size  and  shape  of  the  last  joint  of  the  little 
finger,  and  dipped  in  oil  (castor-oil  or  sweet- 
oil)  for  easy  introduction.  It  must  be 
pressed  upwards  gently  until  fully  within 
the  bowel,  and  retained  for  a  little  while  by 
the  contraction  of  the  muscle  at  the  outlet 
{sphincter  ani  muscle  of  anatomists). 

Cocoa  Butter  is  a  very  common  and  con- 
venient material  for  suppositories,  with 
which  are  mixed  medicinal  agents  so  to  be 
used.  Opium  may  be  employed,  the  dose 
being  twice  as  large  as  when  taken  by  the 
mouth.  A  suppository  may  therefore  con- 
tain two  grains  of  opium.  Sayitonin  sup- 
positories (with  three  grains  of  this  drug  in 
each)  may  be  used  with  great  advantage  for 
seat-worvis. 

Tannin  or  Tannic  Acid — This  is  the 
astringent  principle  of  oak  bark,  of  nut 
galls,  and  of  many  other  vegetable  materi- 
als. Its  presence  in  tea-leaves  accounts  for 
iron  spoons  being  blackened  when  left  in 
tea.  Catechu  and  other  vegetable  astring- 
ent medicines  contain  tannic  acid,  some  of 
them  also  the  very  similar  gallic  acid. 

Tannin  is  often  given  as  a  medicine 
in  pili  for  diarrhoea  and  for  hemorrhages. 
A  good  astringent  pill  is  made  with  three 
grains  of  tannin  and  a  little  opium,  from 
one-twelfth  to  one-half  a  grain  of  the  latter, 
according  to  the  case. 

Tannin  is  also  frequently  made  part  of 
an  astringent  gargle,  particularly  in  rather 
chronic  {^ro\ong&X)  cases  of  sore  throat. 

Tar. — An  old-time  remedy  for  chronic 
bronchial  trouble  ;  especially  likely  to  do 
good  by  inhalation.  A  tin  cup  containing 
tar  may  be  kept  over  a  slow  flame,  in  the 
room  with  the  invalid,  so  as  to  give  off  tar 
vapor  into  the  air.  A  good  way  is  to  have 
the  cup  of  tar  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water  ;  the 
heat  acting  upon  the  water,  so  that  it  never 
heats  the  tar  so  much  as  to  decompose  it. 
Ot  it  may  be  used  with  a  simple  inhaler. 
(See  Inhalation), 


303 


Tar  Ointment  is  a  valuable  preparation 

in  some  skin  diseases.  It  will  generally  cure 
ringworm.  For  this  purpose,  it  should  be 
rubbed  gently  but  thoroughly  over  the  ring- 
worm at  night  (the  part  being,  if  practic- 
able, then  covered  with  a  soft  rag,  over 
which  is  oiled  silk),  and  cleaned  off  care- 
fully with  warm  water  and  castile  soap  in 
the  morning. 

Taraxacum. — Everybody  knows  the  dan 
delion  plant.  Taj^axacum  dens  leonis  is  it& 
botanical  name.  The  leaves  are  liked  by 
some  people  as  a  kind  of  "greens"  for  the 
table.  The  root  has  long  been  known, 
when  chewed  or  drunk  in  the  form  of  a  tea, 
to  act  upon  the  kidneys,  increasing  the  flow 
of  water.  Besides  this  diuretic  action,  it 
appears  also  to  aid  in  relieving  torpor  of  the 
liver. 

Extract  of  taraxacum  is  the  most  con- 
venient preparation.  In  ten-  or  twenty- 
grain  does  it  may  be  taken  by  those  who 
have  symptoms  threatening  bilious  colic,  or 
who,  from  nausea,  dizziness,  a  bitter  taste, 
and  yellow  eyes  and  tongue,  appear  to  suf- 
fer from  imperfect  removal  of  bile  from  the 
system.  It  is  thus  a  mild  and  safe  assistant 
to,  or  perhaps  substitute  for,  blue  mass. 

Tarrant's  Powders.  —  A  moderately 
active  and  not  unpleasant  cooling  purgative. 
Dose,  from  a  teaspoonful  to  a  tablespoonful, 
according  to  the  amount  of  effect  desired. 

Tartar  Emetic. — A  very  harsh  drug  in 
its  effects  upon  the  human  body,  unless  it 
be  given  in  very  small  doses.  Other  emetics 
are  always  to  be  preferred  when  vomiting  is 
to  be  produced.  Its  greatest  value  is  in 
small  doses  as  a  sedative  and  expectorant  in 
highly  inflammatory  cases  of  pneumonia  or 
acute  bronchitis.  From  one-sixteenth  to 
one-fourth  of  a  grain  for  an  adult  will  be 
enough,  every  two  or  three  hours.  For 
children,  tartar  emetic  is  too  prostrating  to 
be  used  unless  for  quite  exceptional  reasons. 
Coxe's  hive  syrup,  formerly  a  common 
medicine  for  croup,  should  be  excluded 
from  the  family  medicine-chest,  on  account 
of  its  containing  tartar  emetic.  Antimonial 
wine  is  open  to  the  same  objection ;  wine 
of  ipecac,  is  similar  in  effect,  but  much 
safer. 

Tartfj^'  emetic  ointment  is  occasionally 
employed  as  a    powerful    counter-irritant, 


So 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


applied  to  the  chest  or  spine.     It  causes  a  sore 
pustular  eruption,  more  severe  even  than  that 
made  by  croton  oil  used  in  the  same  way. 
Turpentine,    Oil    or    Spirit  of. — tFsed 

occasionally  by  physicians  as  a  medicine 
internally,  in  ten-drop  doses,  in  typhoid 
fever  (as  an  alternative  to  the  diseased 
bowel)  and  in  chronic  rheumatism  ;  in  larger 
quantities,  even  a  teaspoonful  or  more,  in 
cases  of  tapeivorm,  and  as  an  antidote  for 
pJiospho7'iis  poisoning.  Oil  of  turpentine  is 
very  heating,  and  had  better  not  be  taken 
internally  without  medical  advice. 

Externally ,  it  is  a  good  warming  appli- 
cation (half  and  half  with  sweet  oil,  if  the 
skin  of  the  patient  be  delicate)  for  sore 
throat,  pain  in  the  side  or  back,  etc.  It  may 
cause  some  soreness  and  a  slight  eruption, 
which,  however,  will  soon  pass  away. 

Valerian. — The  root  of  an  herb  native  to 
the  Old  World,  of  which  the  tincture  and 
flidd  extract  are  most  used.  It  is  a  mild 
nervous  stimulant  and  antispasmodic  (com- 
posing agent).  In  /y5/<?;7Va/ cases,  and  in 
some  cases  of  deliriiiui  tremens,  it  is  very 
serviceable.  Dose  of  the  tincture,  a  teaspoon- 
ful ;  of  the  fluid  extract,  the  same  ;  either 
being  diluted  with  water  when  taken. 

Valerianate  or  Ammonia  is  often  given, 
in  the  form  of  an  elixir,  in  teaspoonful 
doses,  to  promote  sleep  in  cases  of  restless- 
ness at  night.  Valerianate  of  zinc  is  a 
nerve-tonic  ;  sometimes  prescribed  by  phy- 
sicians, in  one-grain  doses,  for  epilepsy. 

Vichy  Water. — An  alkaline  (antacid) 
mineral  water  of  France,  more  agreeable  be- 
cause of  its  containing  some  free  carbonic 
acid  gas.  It  is  recommended  for  dyspepsia 
with  sour  stomach;  {or  gravel.,  a.nd{orgo7(t ; 
especially  when  the  last  named  affects  the 
stomach  and  digestion.  Vichy  lozenges  are 
sold  by  apothecaries,  being  intended  to  imi- 
tate vichy  water  when  dissolved.  They  are 
often  found  serviceable  to  persons  subject  to 
sourness  of  stomach  after  eating. 

Warner's  Cordial . — Tincture  of  Rhubarb 
and  Senfca  this  is,  by  composition.  It  is  a 
warming,  stimulating  laxative  to  the-bowels ; 
good  in  gouty  cases,  and  many  others.  Dose, 
one  or  two  teaspoonfuls,  in  water. 

Watermelon=5eed  Tea  is  an  old  remedy 
for  dropsy.  It  is  a  diuretic,  of  considerable 
power;  and  quite  safe,  if  it  does  not  always 


cure.  A  couple  of  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
seeds  may  be  infused  in  a  pint  of  hot  water, 
and  left  covered  for  an  hour  or  two.  It  is 
least  disagreeable  when  taken  cold ;  dose,  a 
wineglassful  (or  less,  if  the  stomach  be 
weak)  three  or  four  times  a  day. 

Wild  Cherry  Bark. — One  of  our  native 
American  medicines,  of  real  value.  Like  the 
fruit  and  leaves  of  the  wild  cherry  tree,  and 
like  peach  leaves  and  fruit-stones,  this  bark 
contains  principles  which,  when  water  is 
add.ed,  make  a  small  quantity  of  Prussic 
(Cyanohydric  or  Hydrocyanic)  Acid.  This 
is  a  decided  sedative  to  the  blood-circulation, 
while  wild  cherry  bark  has  also  somewhat 
of  the  touic  property  which  is  more  largely 
possessed  by  the  vegetable  bitters.  It  is, 
therefore,  a  sedative  tonic.  It  is  adapted  to 
cases  of  bronchial  inflammation,  especially 
in  rather  feeble  persons.  I  have  known  it 
to  do  good  even  in  consumption  of  the  lungs. 
A  cold  hifusion  (tea)  may  be  made  by  soak- 
ing pieces  of  the  bark  in  cold  water  over 
night.  This  may  be  drunk  freely,  so  long 
as  the  stomach  is  not  oppressed  by  it.  But 
more  convenient  are  the  syrup  and  fljiid 
extract  of  wild  cherry  bark.  The  syrup  is 
an  excellent  cough-medicine,  at  any  stage 
of  a  cough,  having  a  particularly  soothing 
and  quieting  influence  upon  the  air-passages. 
It  may  be  taken  at  first  with  syrup  of  ipecac. , 
to  Icosen  the  cough ;  then  with  syrup  of 
squills,  to  hasten  the  cure ;  and  afterward, 
if  need  be,  when  it  is  well  loosened  and  ytt 
troublesome,  with  a  little  paregoric  also. 
Dose,  a  teaspoonful.  Much  more  at  a  time 
will  sicken  some  persons. 

Wistar's  Lozenges.  These  are  made  of 
liquorice,  gum-arabic,  sugar,  oil  of  anise, 
and  a  little  opium.  They  are  very  quieting 
to  a  cough,  but,  as  opium  tends  to  check 
expectoration,  they  are  not  suitable  for  the 
early,  tight  stage  ;  their  time  is  when  cough 
is  loosened  thoroughly,  but  is  annoying  and 
interferes  with  sleep  at  night.  From  one  to 
four  lozenges  may  be  dissolved  slowly  in  the 
mouth  in  the  course  of  a  night  if  required. 

Many  more  drugs  might  be  here  named, 
and  their  properties  and  uses  described.  But 
I  think  it  best  to  confine  our  attention  to 
those  best  tried  and  known  to  the  medical 
profession.  Others  maybe  read  about  in 
medical  works. 
304 


DOSES  OF  PRINCIPAL  MEDICINES 

Acetate  of  Ammonium  Solution i  Tablespoonful. 

Aromatic  Spirit  of  Ammonia lo  to  30  Drops. 

Assafoetida,  in  Pill 3  to  5  Grains. 

Assafoetida,  Milk Teaspoonful  to  Tablespoonful. 

Blue  Pill %  Grain  to  3  Grains. 

Bromide  of  Potassium  or  Sodium     ....  5  to  20  Grains. 

Cajuput  Oil 4  to  8  Drops. 

Calomel tV  Grain  to  2  or  3  Grains. 

Camphor,  Spirit 10  to  30  Drops. 

Camphor  Water Teaspoonful  to  Tablespoonful. 

Cardamom,  Compound  Tincture i  Teaspoonful. 

Castor-Oil Teaspoonful  to  Tablespoonful. 

Catechu,  Tincture Half-Teaspoonful  to  Tablespoonful. 

Cathartic  Pills,  Compound i  Pill. 

Chalk  Mixture Teaspoonful  to  Tablespoonful. 

Chloral  Hydrate 5  to  30  Grains. 

Chlorate  of  Potassium 5  to  20  Grains. 

Chloride  of  Ammonium  (Muriate  of 

Ammonia) 5  to  20  Grains. 

Chloroform,  internally 5  to  50  Drops. 

Cinchona,  Sulphate 2  to  3  Grains. 

Citrate  of  Magnesia,  Solution i  or  2  Wineglassfuls. 

Citrate  of  Magnesia,  Granulated Teaspoonful  to  Tablespoonful. 

Cod-Liver  Oil i  Tablespoonful. 

Col chicum,  Wine  of  Root 10  to  20  drops. 

Cream  of  Tartar Teaspoonful  to  Tablespoonful. 

Creasote i  Drop. 

Croton  Oil,  internally ..  %  Drop. 

Digitalis,  Tincture 10  to  15  Drops. 

Dover's  Powders 10  Grains,  at  night. 

Elaterium yV  of  a  Grain, 

Elixir  of  Vitriol 10  to  15  Drops. 

Elixir  Proprietatis i  or  2  Teaspoonfuls. 

Epsom  Salts Teaspoonful  to  Tablespoonful. 

Ergot,  Wine  of Half-Teaspoonful  to  2  Teaspoonfuls. 

Gentian,  Compound  Tincture i  or  2  Teaspoonfuls. 

Ginger,  Essence  of 10  to  30  Drops. 

Glycerin,  internally i  or  2  Teaspoonfuls. 

Hoffman's  Anodyne i  or  2  Teaspoonfuls. 

Hops,  Tincture  of i  or  2  Teaspoonfuls. 

Hunyadi  Janos  Water i  Wineglassful. 

Huxham's  Tincture i  Teaspoonful. 

Iodide  of  Potassium ,    .  5  to  10  Grains. 

Iodine,  Eugol's  Solution 10  to  15  Drops. 

305 


62  THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 

Iodoform,  tftiernally i  Grain. 

Ipecacuanha,  Syrup  or  Wine lo  Drops  to  i  TeaspoonM. 

Iron,  Pill  of  Carbonate  (Vallet's)     ....  3  to  5  Grains. 

Iron,  Tincture  of  Chloride 10  to  20  Drops. 

Jalap 5  to  10  Grains. 

Lactucarium,  Syrup i  or  2  Teaspoonfuls. 

Laudanum 10  to  30  Drops. 

Lavender,  Compound  Spirit i  or  2  Teaspoonfuls. 

Lime  water Dessertspoonful  to  TablespoonfWo 

Lobelia,  Tincture 20  Drops  to  a  Teaspoonful. 

Lupulin,  Tincture  of i  or  2  Teaspoonfuls. 

Magnesia,  Calcined i  Teaspoonful. 

Morphia,  Magendie's  Solution 4  or  5  Drops. 

Morphia,  Solution i  Teaspoonful. 

Musk 3  to  5  Grains. 

Nux  Vomica,  Extract /4^  to  >^  Grain. 

Nux  Vomica,  Tincture 10  to  20  Drops. 

Opium I  Grain. 

Paregoric i  Teaspoonful. 

Peppermint,  Essence i  to  10  Drops. 

Permanganate  of  Potassium,  internally  .    .  i  or  2  Grains. 

Pink  Root,  Fluid  Extract      .......  i  Teaspoonful. 

Pink  Root  and  Senna,  Extract i  Teaspoonful. 

Podophyllin %  Grain. 

Piillna  Water i  Tablespoonful. 

Quinine i  or  2  Grains. 

Rochelle  Salt Teaspoonful  to  Tablespoonful. 

Rhubarb,  in  Pill 3  to  5  Grains. 

Rhubarb,  Simple  Syrup Teaspoonful  to  Tablespoonful. 

Rhubarb,  Spiced  Syrup Teaspoonful  to  Tablespoonful. 

Santonin i  to  3  Grains. 

Senna,  Fluid  Extract Teaspoonful  to  Tablespoonful. 

Soda,  Bicarbonate 2  to  20  Grains. 

Squills,  Syrup Half  Teaspoonful  to  Teaspoonful. 

Tannic  Acid 3  Grains. 

Taraxacum,  Extract 10  to  20  Grains. 

Tarrant's  Powders Teaspoonful  to  Tablespoonful. 

Veratrum  Viride,  Tincture 3  to  6  Drops. 

Warner's  Cordial i  or  2  Teaspoonfuls. 

Wild  Cherry  Bark.  Syrup i  Teaspoonful. 

Wild  Cherry  Bark,  Fluid  Extract    ....  i  Teaspoonful, 

306 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


63 


The  doses  here  given  are  intended,  as  a 
rule  for  adults. 

A.S  a  guide  for  the  giving  of  medicines  to 
patients  in  general  we  append  the  following  : 

Table  of  Proportionate  Doses. 

Age,  years  80    65    50  25-40  20    16     12    85    2 

Doses  .  .  .yk    H    Yi    -^       y%    %    ji  'A  Vi  % 

Age,  months 12    6    2     i 

Doses 1-5  1-8  1-15  1-24 

Largest  Safe  Doses  of  Poisonous  Drugs. 

Every  person  should  know  the  largest  doses, 
which  is  safe  to  take,  of  active  medicines.  The 
following  table  shows  the  largest  doses  admissible, 
in  grammes,  and  also  the  equivalent  i  a  grains  for 
solids,  and  in  minims  for  liquids.  The  doses  are 
expressed  in  fractions,  thus:  1-13,  1-64,  meaning 
one-thirteenth,  one-sixty-fourth.  In  non- profes- 
sional hands  it  is  the  safest  plan  to  strictly  observe 
the  rule  of  never  giving  the  maximum  dose  of  any 
medicine : 

Medicines.  Grammes.     Grains. 

Arsenious  Acid 005  1-13 

Acid,  Carbolic 05  % 

"      Hydrocyanic 06  i 

Aconita 0041  1-16 

Aconite  Root 15  2% 

Arsenic,  Iodide 025  y% 

Atropia 001  1-64 

Atropia  Sulph oox  1-64 

Barium,  Chlor 12  1-64 


Belladonna,  Herb .2  3 

"           Root I  ly^ 

Codia 05  ^ 

Conia 001  1-64 

Digitalis 3  4>^ 

Ext  Aconite  I,eaves i  1% 

"       "      Root 025  y^ 

"     Belladonna .1  1% 

"     Cannabis  In dica i  i}i 

"     Conium 18  2X 

"     Digitalis .2  3 

"     Nux  Vomica,  Ale 05  ^ 

Ext.  Opium I  1)4 

"      Stramon,  Seed 05  ^ 

Fowler's  Solution 4  6  min. 

Lead,  Sugar  of 06  9-10 

Mercury,  Corrosive  Chlor   ...    .03  9-20 

"            Red  Iodide 03  9-20 

Morphia  and  its  Salts 03  9-20 

Nitrate  Silver 03  9-20 

Oil,  Croton 06  9  10 

Opium 15  2X 

Phosphorus 015  2-9 

Potassa,  Arsenite 005  1-13 

"       Cyanide 03  9-20 

Santonine i  l>^ 

Soda,  Arsenite 005  1-13 

Strychnia  and  Salts  .......    .01  1-6 

Tartar  Emetic 2  3 

Veratria 005  1.13 

Veratrum  Viride 3  4)4 

Zinc,  Chloride 015  2-9 

"     Valeriante 06  9-10 


MEDICINE  CHEST. 


For  the  fledicine  Chest. 

The  following  household  remedies  are 
suggested  for  the  family  medicine  chest : 

Castor-Oil,  Essence  of  Ginger,  Spiced  Syrup  of 
Rhubarb,  Simple  Syrup  of  Rhubarb,  Camphor- 
water,  Lime-water,  Cinnamon-water,  Paregoric, 
Spirits  of  Camphor,  Spirits  of  Hartshorn,  Lai"^- 


num,  Syrup  of  Ipecacuanha,  Syrup  of  Squills, 
Sweet  Spirits  of  Nitre,  Hoffmann's  Anodyne,  Chalk 
Mixture  Powder,  Compound  Spirits  of  Lavender, 
Anodyne  Carminative  (Cholera  Mixture,)  Tincture 
of  Arnica,  Soap  Liniment,  Essence  of  Peppermint, 
Spirits  of  Turpentine,  Collodion,  Aromatic  Spirits 
of  Ammonia,  Tincture  of  Capsicum,  Aromatic 
Sulphuric  Acid^  Y/iue  of  Colchicum,  Glycerine. 


307 


64 


NURSING  AND   CARE  OF  THE  SICK 


In  many  kinds  of  illness,  especially  con- 
tinued fevers,  and  other  attacks  attended  by 
great  debility,  good  nursing  is  well  known 
to  be  as  important  as  good  doctoring.  A 
careful  physician  will  direct  not  only  the 
medicines  of  the  patient,  but  also  his  food, 
and  all  other  matters  concerning  him — as 
his  covering,  changes  of  clothing,  air  in  his 
room,  etc.  But  the  carrying  out  of  such 
directions  must  be  left  to  those  immediately 
in  charge  of  the  sick  person  from  hour  to 
hour  ;  and  questions  will  occur  in  the  doc- 
tor's absence,  sometimes  of  much  import- 
ance, which  those  who  nurse  the  patient 
must  answer  and  act  upon  at  the  moment, 
from  their  own  knowledge.  Moreover,  the 
viajiner  of  doing  things  in  the  care  of  a  sick 
person  makes  an  immense  difference  in  his 
comfort.  In  critical  cases  it  may  even  de- 
cide between  recovery  and  death. 

Qualities  of  a  Good  Nurse. 

What  are  the  qualities  that  make  a  good 
nurse?  They  are  kindness,  good  common 
sense,  carefulness,  quietness,  neatness,  han- 
diness,  cheerfulness. 

Kind  a  nurse  must  be,  or  mere  profes- 
sional skill  and  obligation  will  fail  to  effect 
all  that  is  needed  for  the  best  welfare  of  a 
patient.  Sympathy  is  worth  much  to  a 
sufferer.  Paticjice  is  often  called  for  in  at- 
tendance upon  the  sick,  and  selfish  people 
do  not  have  a  large  stock  of  this,  which  can 
not  be  bought  with  money ;  it  must  come 
from  love,  or,  at  least,  from  genuine  kindness 
of  heart. 

Common  setise,  that  is,  intelligence  such 
as  most  people,  not  particularly  deficient, 
possess,  will  enable  any  one  to  lear)i  what  is 
necessary  in  nursing,  and  to  do  it  respect- 
ably, at  least. 

Carefulness  is  indispensable.  One  who 
will  give  a  dose  of  medicine  without  look- 
ing at  the  label  on  the  bottle ;  or  will 
spill  out  twenty  drops  when  ten  were 
ordered  ;  or  will  upset  a  breakfast  tray  on 
the  bed  ;  or  leave  a  vessel  under  the  bed  for 
hours  uncovered  :  or  oversleep  when  the  pat- 
ient should  have  food  or  medicine,  or  let  the 
fire  go  out ;  such  an  one  is  entirely  unfit  to 
have  charge  of  a  sick  person. 


Exactness  in  carrying  out  the  orders  o) 
the  physician  is  the  first  duty  of  a  nurse. 
The  doctor  is  responsible  for  the  treatment 
of  the  case,  and  the  patient  and  family  are 
responsible  for  the  choice  of  the  doctor. 
The  nurse,  whether  man  or  woman,  whc 
thinks  he  or  she  "knows  better  than  the 
doctor,"  is  a  very  dangerous  and  unsuitable 
person  to  have  about  the  house. 

Sleeping  heavily  is  a  weakness  from 
which  some  suffer  when  in  care  of  ill  pat- 
ients at  night.  It  is  a  good  thing  to  learn  to 
wake  with  a  sound  or  a  touch.  By  fixing  it 
strongl}'-  on  the  mind,  most  people  can  do 
this.  A  break-down  may  come,  just  at  a 
critical  moment,  then  the  family  is  left  under 
a  calamity  which  might  have  been  prevented 
by  proper  consideration  from  the  start. 

Watchfulness  in  everything  is  the  duty 
of  a  nurse.  Without  it,  a  patient  may  get 
out  of  bed  in  a  delirium,  and  perhaps  fall 
down  stairs  or  out  of  the  window.  Or,  the 
clothing  may  be  thrown  off,  and  a  deadlj^ 
chill  will  follow.  In  a  thousand  things  the 
life  of  the  sufferer  may  be  in  the  hands  of 
the  nurse,  as  the  safety  of  the  passengers 
and  cargo  of  a  ship  is  in  that  of  the  pilot  at 
the  helm . 

When  many  doses  of  medicine  or  por- 
tions of  food  have  to  be  given  through  the 
day  and  night,  it  is  best  that  the  times  and 
quantities  shall  be  written  down,  instead  of 
trusting  to  memory.  And  then,  a  mark  of 
record  of  some  kind  being  made  when  each 
thing  is  given  makes  ready  a  report  of  the 
treatment  forthe  doctor  to  see  when  he  comes. 

Qtdetness  is  very  necessary  in  the  sick- 
room. Stamping  around  in  heavy  or  creak- 
ing shoes,  talking  loud,  swinging  in  a  rock- 
ing-chair, slamming  doors  or  windows,  or 
even  much  rustling  of  garments  ;  all  noises 
are  utterly  inadmissible  and  injurious.  Yet 
whispering ,  and  creeping  on  tiptoe  in  sight 
of  the  patient,  are  about  as  bad,  because 
they  attract  his  attention  unpleasantly,  and 
that  is  always  to  be  avoided. 

Never  ask  a  patient  whether  he  would 
"like  to  eat  or  drink"  such-and-such  a 
thing.  Prepare  and  bring,  under  the  di- 
rections of  the  doctor,  what  will  be  best  and 
most  likely  to  be  taken,  and  offer  it  quietly. 


308 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


If  not  taken  in  a  little  while,  remove  it  out 
of  sight.  Keep  no  food  or  medicine  in  sight 
of  a  sick  person. 

Neatness  is  a  very  similar  quality  to 
quietness.  Nothing  should  be  allowed  to 
be  slovenly,  much  less  dirty  around  a  sick 
person .  Yet  ' '  fuss ' '  and  much  movement 
in  clearing  up  are  to  be  avoided.  A  wet 
cloth  will  be  better  than  a  brush  or  broom 
in  cleaning  furniture  and  carpet. 

Handiness  is  an  excellent  quality  in 
doing  all  sorts  of  things,  in  the  sick-room, 
as  well  as  everywhere  else.  While  it  is  not 
absolutely  indispensable,  its  opposite,  clum- 
siness or  awkwardness,  may  cause  much 
discomfort.  I  have  known  one  or  two  men 
who,  in  a  surgical  ward  of  a  hospital,  could 
hardly  go  near  to  a  patient  without  some- 
how hurting  him. 

Cheerfulness  is  an  excellent  attribute  in 
the  sick-room.  It  is  as  pleasant  as  sunshine, 
and  wholesome  like  it,  without  any  of  its 
glare.  A  long  face  or  a  whining  voice 
should  never  enter  where  there  is  suffering 
enough  already.  Let  every  one  endeavor  to 
make  the  best  of  all  things,  and  the  most  of 
hope.  When  there  is  doubt,  leaning  toward 
the  brighter  side  is  well ;  as  the  proverb 
says,  "  while  there  is  life  there  is  hope," 

Speaking  of  a  patient's  symptoms  in  his 
presence  (unless  when  needful  questions  have 
to  be  asked)  is  to  be  avoided.  Also,  there 
must  be  no  discussion  or  mention  there  of 
other  people's  illnesses  or  deaths.  Much 
talking  of  any  kind  is  out  of  place  in  the 
sick- chamber  ;  it  interferes  with  that  rest  of 
brain  which,  in  all  kinds  of  illness,  is  im- 
portant. 

The  Sick=Room. 

When  it  is  possible  to  choose,  the 
patient's  room  should  be  on  the  sunny  side  of 
the  house,  and  on  the  second  floor.  It  should 
be  one  of  the  largest  in  the  house.  If  a  room 
is  necessarily  small,  more  contrivance  will 
be  required  to  meet  all  the  conditions 
wanted  in  the  care  of  an  ill  person. 

Plenty  of  large  windows  are  desirable  in 
a  sick-room.  Should  there  unfortunately 
be  only  one  window,  it  will  be  almost  im- 
possible to  air  the  room  properly,  unless 
there  be  an  open  transom  over  the  door,  or 
the  door  be   left   open  most  of  the   time. 


34 


309 


When  two  rooms  communicate,  one  of  them 
may  with  advantage  be  given  up  to  the 
patient,  and  the  other  to  the  nurse  and  to 
various  appliances,  which  may  thus  be  kept 
out  of  the  sick  one's  sight. 

There  should  be  little  furniture  in  the 
sick-room.  A  few  chairs  and  tables  will 
suffice,  one  being  a  bedside  table  for  frequent 
use.  A  bed-chair  (night-chair)  or  portable 
earth-closet  will  be  very  serviceable  for  a 
person  who  is  strong  enough  to  get  or  be 
helped  out  of  bed.  No  carpet  should  be  on 
the  floor,  except  movable  pieces  or  rugs, 
placed  where  they  are  needed  for  warmth  to 
the  feet  and  to  prevent  noise  in  moving 
about. 

No  bed-curtains  should  be  allowed  ;  nor 
heavy  window-curtains.  Good  blinds  or 
shades  are  needful  to  regulate  the  admission 
or  exclusion  of  light. 

Warmth. 

A  sick-room  should,  generally,  be  kept 
at  a  temperature  betwen  68°  and  70°  Fahr. 
In  a  few  exceptional  cases,  physicians  may 
wish  to  have  a  room  much  warmer,  at  par- 
ticular times.  When  fuel  is  scarce,  and  the 
room  is  small,  it  will  be  best  to  secure  good 
air  to  breathe,  even  at  the  loss  of  some  de- 
grees of  temperature  in  the  room,  this  being 
made  up  by  sufficient  covering  for  the 
patient.  But,  in  most  instances,  air  may 
be,  with  care,  kept  pure  and  sufficiently 
warm  at  the  same  time. 

The  best  kind  of  fire  for  a  sick-room  is 
an  open  wood  fire  in  the  chimney-place. 
Next  to  that  is  an  open  coal-grate,  with  a 
good  di^aught  to  secure  it  from  escape  of  gas. 
If  only  a  stove  can  be  had,  a  wood-burning 
stove  should  be  preferred.  With  a  stove 
which  burns  coal,  the  greatest  care  will  be 
necessary  to  prevent  coal  gas  from  getting 
out  into  the  room,  and  also  to  keep  the  air 
moist  enough  by  having  water  in  a  pan 
always  upon  the  stove. 

Furnace -heated  air  is  objectionable  as  a 
dependence  in  a  sick-room,  although  very 
well  to  have  within  reach  to  supplement  an 
open  fire.  The  warmth  of  most  furnaces  is 
variable  and  uncertain  ;  some  of  them  allow 
gas  to  get  into  their  air-chambers,  and 
so  to  pass  through  the  house  ;  and,  at  the 
best,  they  require  special  pains  to  provide 


66 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


ventilation,  which  the  heater  itself  does  not 
furnish . 

For  the  body  of  a  sick  patient  to  be  kept 
warm  enough  to  be  comfortable,  is  one  of 
the  quite  indispensable  things.  It  should 
be  ascertained  from  time  to  time,  especially 
about  the  feet.  Blankets  and  quilts  will 
not  always  insure  warmth  ;  they  only  pro- 
tect it  when  the  body  has  it  of  itself.  When- 
ever a  sick  person'' s  feet  aj-e  cold,  something 
warm  should  be  at  07ice  put  to  them.  A 
heated  fire  stone,  or  a  common  brick,  or  a 
bottle,  or  pan  of  hot  water,  or  a  bag  of  hot 
salt,  will  do.  Only  never  let  your  patient  be 
chilled,  for  a  single  minute,  when  it  can  be 
helped. 

Light. 

While  the  sunny  side  of  the  house  is  the 
best,  and  sunlight  should  be  admitted  (with 
few  exceptions  only)  every  day  into  the 
room,  the  sick  person's  eyes  should  not  be 
exposed  to  a  direct  glare.  The  bed  may  be 
so  turned  that  the  window  is  out  of  the  pa- 
tient's sight ;  or,  if  this  cannot  be,  a  screen 
of  some  kind  should  be  so  placed  as  to  shield 
his  eyes  from  it.  At  times,  when  sleep  is 
desirable,  the  light  should  be  almost  all  shut 
out.  At  night,  no  flame  of  a  lamp,  candle, 
or  gas-burner  should  be  exposed  to  the  pa- 
tient's view.  Either  should  be  shaded,  or 
otherwise  concealed.  A  gas-burner  may,  of 
course,  be  turned  down  ;  and,  besides,  a 
movable  tin  burner-shade  attached  to  it  is  a 
great  convenience.  Some  persons,  even 
when  well,  cannot  sleep  with  the.  flame  of 
ever  so  low- turned  a  gas-burner  in  their 
sight.  It  is  not  safe,  moreover,  to  turn  a 
gas-burner  very  low.  A  change  of  pressure 
at  the  source  of  supply  may  put  out  the 
light,  and  allow  a  leakage  of  gas,  dangerous 
to  any  one  sleeping  in  the  room. 

Air. 

In  the  sick-room  the  things  to  be  done 
are,  to  have  the  air  changed  constantly,  and 
at  the  same  time  to  prevent  direct  draughts 
upon  the  patient's  bed.  If  there  are  several 
windows,  all  but  the  one  nearest  the  bed 
may  be  open  a  little  at  top  and  a  little  at 
bottom ;  more  or  less  according  to  the 
weather.  In  warm  weather,  of  course, 
everything  may  be  opened  wide  all  the  time. 


no 


With  only  one  window  in  a  room,  sis 
already  said,  there  ought  to  be  another  out- 
let for  air,  such  as  a  transom  over  a  door ; 
or,  in  the  absence  of  this,  the  door  itself  may 
be  left  open.  This  will  require  attention  to 
the  air  of  the  room,  or  passage,  communi- 
cating by  that  door  with  the  room.  If  the 
air  of  the  house  is  foul,  that  will  hurt  the 
condition  of  the  sick-room,  when  the  door 
of  the  latter  is  left  open.  Yet,  somehow, 
both  an  inlet  and  an  outlet  are  needed,  to 
change  the  air  of  the  room. 

In  very  cold  weather,  when  it  is  impos- 
sible safely  to  have  (as  is  always  best)  a 
constant  and  considerable  movement  of  air 
through  the  room,  the  next  best  thing  will 
be  to  have  chosen  times  of  airing  it  thor- 
oughly. Cover  the  patient  with  extra 
blankets  or  coverlids,  protecting  even  the 
head  and  face  for  the  time ;  and  then  open 
the  window  or  windows  and  doors  widey^r 
a  few  miyiutes.  Upon  closing  them,  see  that 
the  patient  keeps  his  extra  cover  until  the 
room  is  warm  enough  again. 

The  Sick=Bed. 

Select  a  wide  and  rather  low  bedstead, 
for  ease  in  getting  in  and  out ;  a  wire  bed- 
bottom  ;  next  best  to  it,  one  on  good  springs, 
with  a  thick  but  soft  mattress.  No  curtains 
should  be  placed  around  the  bed,  since  they 
check  the  free  and  abundant  supply  of  air 
to  the  patient. 

Pillows  should  be  of  full  size,  and  as  soft 
as  possible.  Extra  little  pillows  are  often 
useful,  to  put  in  spaces,  in  propping  a  patient 
up,  to  relieve  some  particular  pressure.  A 
sheet,  as  a  rule,  not  a  blanket,  should  be 
next  to  the  body.  The  blanket  first  is  only 
proper  when  the  patient  is  very  hard  to  keep 
warm,  or  when  one  quite  ill  is  lifted  into 
and  out  of  a  bath.  A  down  quilt  is  the 
nicest  top-piece ;  its  lightness  is  a  great 
advantage.  Some  patients  can  hardly  beat 
the  pressure  of  the  bedclothes.  Over  an 
inflamed  or  injured  limb,  it  is  often  neces- 
sary to  put  a  support  to  keep  them  off. 
This  may  be  made  by  breaking  a  barrel - 
hoop  in  two,  and  placing  the  pieces  across 
each  other  (fastened  at  the  middle  for  steadi- 
ness) under  the  clothes. 

Cha7iging  the  bedclothes  requires  care, 
but  it  ought  to  be  done  often.     When  there 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


67' 


is  likely  to  be  anything  to  soil  the  bed,  a 
large  piece  of  rubber-cloth  or  oil-cloth 
should  be  put  upon  the  mattress,  beneath 
the  under  sheet.  In  cases  of  labor,  a  second 
rubber-cloth  or  oil-cloth  had'better  be  placed 
upon  the  lower  sheet,  and  another  sheet 
over  it,  so  that  the 
latter  and  the  upper 
rubber-cloth  may  be 
removed,  leaving  the 
bed  still  protected. 

Sheets,  especially, 
ought  to  be  changed 
often.  When  practi- 
cable, once  in  twenty- 
four  hours  will  be 
desirable  i  n  a 
severe  illness. 
To  make  the 
change,  warm  a 
sheet  thoroughly 
(being  sure  first 
that  it  is  e7itirely 
dry  ;  a  d  a  m  p 
sheet  may  be 
deadly) ,  and  fold 
i  t  lengthwise. 
Then  fold,  also 
lengthwise,  one 
side  of  the  under- 
sheet  on  the 
bed,  up  against  the  patient's  side.  Push 
the  fresh- warmed  sheet  along  near  him,  and 
have  some  one  to  lift,  first  his  head  and 
shoulders,  and  afterwards  his  legs  and  feet. 
Then,  while  he  is  lifted,  press  the  soiled 
sheet  from  under  and  beyond  him,  and  roll 
out  the  fresh  one  (half  of  it)  to  take  its 
place.  It  will  then  be  easy  to  draw  it  smooth. 
To  change  the  upper  sheet,  the  fresh  one, 
being  first  warmed,  may  be  rolled  either  in 
its  width  or  in  its  length,  and  passed  under 
the  sheet  already  over  the  patient's  body, 
into  its  place,  without  disturbing  him  at  all. 
It  requires  two  persons,  one  on  each  side  of 
the  bed,  to  do  this  well. 

BedsorkS  are  very  troublesome  occa- 
sional results  of  continued  pressure,  while 
one  is  lying  long  in  bed ;  they  are  especi- 
ally apt  to  occur  in  very  thin  and  weak 
persons.  Most  of  all  they  are  liable  to  hap- 
pen when,  from  an  injury  or  serious  disease 
of  some  part,  the  patient  cannot  change  his 

31 


AIR-   OR   WATER    CUSHIONS. 


position  from  time  to  time.  This  is  the  case. 
with  fractures  of  the  thigh  or  leg.  In  such 
instances  the  utmost  care  must  be  taken  to 
preserve  the  soundness  of  the  skin  where  it  is 
most  pressed  upon.  It  must  be  examinea 
every  day,  and  bathed  gently  with  whiskey  or 
soap  liniment.  When  redness  and  tenderness 
of  the  skin  begin  to  appear,  a  protection  to  it 
must  be  supplied ,  by  covering  the  part  with  a 
piece  of  soft,  thick  buckskin,  upon  which 
soap-plaster  has  been  smoothly  spread  ;  or, 
if  that  is  not  at  hand,  two  layers  of  adhesive 
plaster,  very  smoothly  adjusted  to  the  surface, 
will  do  for  the  purpose.  Small  pillows,  or 
air-  or  water-cushions,  in  rings  or  other 
shapes,  are  often  employed  to  take  the  pres- 
sure off  of  tender  parts.  They  may  some- 
times do  good  ;  but,  in  surgical  practice,  I 
have  been  repeatedly  disappointed  with 
them,  especially  with  air-  and  water-cush- 
ions or  pillows.  When  bedsores  actually 
occur,  is  is  necessary  to  relieve  the  sores 
from  pressure  ;  and,  besides,  they  must  be 
treated  like  open  wounds  or  ulcers. 

Sick=Qarinents. 

These  should  be  as  simple  as  possible. 
One  sufficiently  warm  and  long  night-shirt 
or  night-gown  will,  as  a  rule,  be  enough  ; 
the  less  worn,  the  easier  it  './ill  be  to  make 
changes.  If  the  limbs  incline  to  be  cold, 
light  drawers  may  be  added  ;  with  the  old 
and  feeble,  stockings  also.  Changes  of  gar- 
ments worn  constantly  in  bed  should  be  fre- 
quent. One  "robe"  for  the  day  and  an- 
other for  the  night  would  be  well,  but  for 
the  fatigue  of  so  many  movements. 

There  should  be  no  exposure  to  cold  dur- 
ing such  changes.  There  need  be  none,  if 
the  room  is  moderately  warm  at  the  time 
(70°  Fahr.)  and  the  fresh  garment  is  well 
warmed  near  the  bed.  One  arm  should  be 
taken  out  of  the  sleeve  it  is  in,  and  put  in 
the  new  one ;  then  the  old  shirt  should  be 
lifted  off  over  the  head,  and  the  new  one 
put  in  its  place ;  lastly,  the  other  arm 
should  be  changed  and  the  shirt  drawn 
down.  When  a  long  gown  is  ready  to  put 
down  over  the  head  and  shoulders,  the  old 
one  can  be  drawn  off  at  the  feet. 

If  any  garment  becomes  soiled,  it  must 
be  removed  as  soon  as  possible.     There  are. 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


oi  course,  some  states  of  extreme  debility  in 
wnich  it  is  not  safe  to  move  the  patient  so 
often  as  above  said.  But,  by  having  gar- 
m.ents  made  loose,  and  cut  or  ripped  if  neces- 
sary to  facilitate  removal,  the  refreshment 
01  such  changes  may  be  obtained  in  more 
cases  of  illness  than  many  j)eople  suppose. 
When  the  disease  from  which  a  patient 
suflfers  is  contagiozts ,  as  small  pox,  scarlet 
fever,  measles  or  typhus  fever,  every  article 
of  clothing  worn,  as  well  as  the  sheets, 
blankets  and  bedding,  must  be  (for  safety  to 
others)  either  boiled  or  burned.  In  malig- 
nant cases,  or  those  attended  by  much  soil- 
ing of  the  clothes,  they  had  better  be  burned. 
In  other  instances  they  may  be  thoroughly 
boiled,  and  Ihen  spread  out  in  the  sun  to 
dry. 

Washing  and   Bathing. 

Kvery  morning,  at  least,  a  sick  person's 
face  should  be  freshened  up  by  washing,  in 
whatever  manner  his  strength  best  allows. 
One  really  ill  must  have  it  done  by  another 
person.  A  soft  "  wash -rag  "  may  be  used. 
The  water  may  be  cold,  if  there  is  fever, 
or  if  there  is  not  prostration  with  a  tendency 
to  chilliness.  In  the  latter  case,  warm 
water  is  better,  even  for  the  face.  Warm 
should  be  used  also  to  wash  the  arms  and 
legs  and  other  parts  of  the  body.     In  weak 

conditions,  whis- 
key may  be 
added  to  warm 
water  for  bath- 
ing the  limbs, 
and  pure  whis- 
key or  soap  lini- 
ment should  be 
used  to  bathe 
any  parts  of  the 
skin  which  are 
subject  to  pres- 
sure. This  is 
often  important 
to  prevent  bed- 
sores. If  the 
skin  is  quite  or 
almost  broken,  a  piece  of  buckskin  spread 
smoothly  with  soap-plaster,  or  a  piece  of 
elastic  adhesive  plaster,  or  even  common 
adhesive  plaster  (two  thicknesses)  may  be. 


HIP-BATH. 


A  SIMPLE  SHOWER-BATH. 


as  already  said,  put  on  to  make  an  artificial 
protective  cuticle. 

When  fever  is  hot  and  high,  cool  wash- 
ing of  the  body  is  of  great  value.  Some 
physicians  now  advise  even  cold  baths  for^ 

typhoid  fever. 
I  do  not  think 
well  of  this 
practice  ;  u  n  - 
less,  at  alt 
events  ,  the 
patient  is  put 
in  water  which 
is  at  first  warm 
or  tepid,  and 
cooled  down 
gradually;  also, 
without  expo- 
sure to  a  low  temperature  for  many  minutes 
at  a  time.  'Exxicool spongi7ig ,  in  scarlet  fever 
as  well  as  in  typhoid,  is,  without  doubt,  not 
only  relieving  but  useful .  It  may  be  repeated 
two  or  three  times  daily. 

In  cases  of  lozv  fever,  and  other  cases  in 
which  restlessness  at  night  is  a  symptom, 
bathing  the  arms  and  legs  (one  at  a  time,  so 
as  not  to  chill  by  exposure)  with  whiskey 
and  hot  water  (equal  parts)  often  gives  much 
comfort  and  promotes  sleep. 

lVar»i  balks  are  frequently  beneficial  in 
states  of  nervous  excitement ;  as  in  the  con- 
vulsions of  children.  Prolonged  warm  baths 
are  also  advised  sometimes  for  tetamts  (lock- 
jaw), and  to  promote  the  reduction  of  her- 
nia (rupture).  In  spasmodic  crotcp  in  chil- 
dren, a  warm  bath  is  often  helpful.  Hot 
baths  do  good  in  cold  or  depressed  condi- 
tions of  the  system  ;  as  in  chronic  rheuma- 
tism or  neu7'algia  ;  and  when  the  eruption 
does  not  come  out  or  stay  out  well  in  scar- 
let fever,  measles,  or  small-pox . 

Hot-air  baths,  sometimes  called  Russian 
baths,  must  be  always  taken  with  dry  air,  so 
as  to  allow  of  free  perspiration  and  evapora- 
tion from  the  body.     This  so  mitigates  the 
effect  of  heat  that  many  people  can  bear  an 
air  bath  above  200°  without  inconvenience. 
Water  baths   affect  the  body  chiefly  ac- 
cording to  their  temperature.     They  may  be 
divided   as   follows  :  Cold,  32°  to  70°  F.  ; 
cool,  70°  to  85°  F.  ;  tepid,  85°  to  90°  F. ; 
warm,  90°  to  96°  F.;  hot,  96°  to  100°  F.  ; 
'  vapor,  1 00°  to  120°  F.;  hot  air,  i30°to250°F. 
12 


6q 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK 


BED-TABLB    (wiTH   RACK) 


Appetite  almost  disappears  in  severe  ill- 
ness, especially  when  there  is  fever;  and 
Mie  capacity  to  digest  food  is  then  nearly  lost. 
It  is  best  not  to  give  large  quantities,  but 
beep  up  the  nourishment  of  the  body  by 
giving  strong,  concen- 
trated food,  in  the 
liquid  form,  in  small 
quantities,  at  short  in- 
tervals. 

A  young  and  ro- 
bust person  may,  at 
the  beginning  of  an 
illness,  be  better  for  a 
day  or  two  with  almost 
no  food.  Feeble  pa- 
tients need,  as  a  rule, 
to  be  so  fed  from  the 
start. 
The  main  staple  article  of  diet  for  the 
sick  is  the  same  as  for  infants ;  namely, 
milk.  And  for  the  same  reasons  ;  that  it 
contains  all  that  is  essential  for  the  system, 
in  a  form  easy  of  digestion  and  appropria- 
tion. In  typhoid  fever,  for  example,  almost 
from  the  beginning,  a  patient  may  be  fed 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  every  two 
or  three  hours,  day  and  night.  Another 
concentrated  article  is  beef- tea  ;  and  stronger 
yet,  beef-essence.  The  mistake  has  been 
very  often  made  oi  straining  or  filtering  beef- 
tea,  after  it  has  been  subjected  to  a  boiling 
heat.  Its  most  nourishing  part  is  thus  left 
behind.  It  ought  to  be  brown  with  finely 
divided  particles  (not  solid  pieces,  of  course) 
of  the  meat.  The  same  is  true  also  of 
essence  of  beef,  made  without  the  addition  of 
water. 

Nixt  to  these  articles  of  food  come 
broths  or  teas  of  other  meats  ;  as  tnution 
and  chicken  soups.  They  should,  for  the 
sick,  be  made  strong,  not  watery ;  but 
s^iould  be  thoroughly  rid  of  their  fat,  by 
skimming.  This  can  be  most  effectually 
done  when  they  have  stood  and  become 
cool ;  but,  except  in  the  warmest  weather, 
they  should  be  heated  again  to  be  taken. 

Prepared  extracts  of  beef  are  much  in 
use,  to  save  trouble  in  getting  the  fresh 
article ;  but  try  to  get  those  that  have  not 
been  filtered,  as  filtering  takes  out  most  of 

■xo  3 


the  nourishing  part  of  the  meat,  and  leaves 
rather  a  nutritive  stimulant  than  a  food. 

Any  standard  beef -juice  ^hich.  is  prepared 
withozitboilifig^has  the  substance  of  the  beef 
in  a  very  concentrated  state.  Most  people  can 
take  this  very  well.  Two  teaspoonfuls  of  it 
may  be  added  to  about  a  quarter  of  a  tum- 
blerful of  water  (hot  or  cold,  as  preferred), 
this  being  given  two  tablespoonfuls,  more  or 
less,  at  a  time. 

Johnson  ^s  fluid  beef  is  agreeable  to  some 
persons,  and,  when  so,  answers  a  very  good 
purpose.  To  my  taste,  it  is  unpleasant. 
Many  physicians  recommend  it,  and  use  it 
largely.     Beef  pepto7ioids  are  much  used. 

fellies  are  weak  food ;  good  only  for 
variety,  or  to  hold  something  stronger,  as  a 
matter  of  taste. 

Fruits  are  commonly  pleasant  during 
fever,  but  they  are  most  of  them  rather  too 
hard  to  digest.  Malaga  grapes  will  almost 
always  agree  well.  Orange  juice  (without 
swallowing  the  pulp)  does  so  also,  and  is 
often  very  refreshing  to  the  sick.  Lemonade 
is  pleasant  and  cooling,  but  requires  consid- 
eration of  the  condition  of  the  stomach  and 
bowels  at  the  time.  One  of  the  best  things 
to  cleari  2ifoul  tongue  during  fever  is  half  a 
le7non,  passed  slowly  over  it  now  and  then. 
Stimulants  are  often  added  to  the  diet  of 
the  sick ,  when  patients  are  much  prostrated 
or  exhausted .  Their  use  requires  great  cau- 
tion and  judgment.  As  a  rule,  they  should 
not  be  employed  with- 
«at  the  advice  of  a 
ph^'-sician.  Wine-whey 
and  whisky-punch  are 
most  frequently  ad- 
vised. They  are  most 
apt  to  be  appropriate 
in  typhus  fever ^  in  the 
weakest  cases  of  ty- 
phoid fever,  and  in  the 
date  stages  of  severe 
acute  diseases.  Also, 
they  may  be  called  for 
in  cholera,  and  in  certain  conditions  which 
are  met  with  in  advanced  or  advancing  con- 
sumption of  the  lungs. 

Convalescence  is  generally  attended  by 
the  return  of  a  good  appetite  and  digestive 

13 


BED-REST 


70 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


power.  The  system  has  to  make  up  for 
what  it  has  lost  during  illness.  Care  is 
necessarj'  that  the  patient  does  not  venture 
too  soon  upon  a  varied  diet,  or  the  use  of 
things  hard  of  digestion.  After  typhoid  fever, 
this  is  particularly  necessary.  From  the 
special  condition  of  the  intestinal  canal  in 
that  disease,  life  may  be  endangered  at  that 
time  by  a  single  imprudence  in  diet.  Gradu- 
ally, however,  after  most  diseases,  recovery 
is  marked  by  ability  to  eat  all  ordinary 
wholesome  food,  and  a  variety  of  digestible 
dishes  may  be  indulged  in,  always,  of  course, 
avoiding  excess. 

We  shall  now  give  directions  for  prepar- 
ing a  number  of  articles  especially  suited  for 
the  food  of  the  sick ;  those,  that  is,  who 
cannot  properly  take  ordinary  solid  meals.* 
Different  things  are  required  for  different 
cases.  Of  this  the  physician  must  judge, 
when  one  is  in  attendance.  In  his  absence, 
those  in  charge  must  be  guided  by  the 
symptoms  and  conditions  present. 

Beef-Tea — Chop  a  pound  of  good  lean 
round  of  beaf  into  very  small  pieces.  Pour 
over  it  a  pint,  or  less  (never  more)  of  cold 
water.  Cover  it,  and  let  it  stand  for  two 
hours  near  the  fire,  or  on  a  part  of  the  range 
or  stove  where  it  will  not  become  very  hot. 
Then  put  it  right  on  the  fire,  and  bring  it  to 
the  boil.  As  soon  as  it  is  fairly  boiling,  re- 
move it,  and  take  off  all  the  scum  from  the 
top.  Pour  it  off  from  the  pieces  of  meat  at 
the  bottom,  but  do  not  filter  or  strain  it, 
unless  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Straining 
robs  it  of  much  of  its  nourishment.  The  fat 
must  be  carefully  removed,  which  can  be 
done  best  with  a  clean  piece  of  blotting- 
paper,  or  a  small  (salt)  spoon.  Salt  may  be 
added  according  to  taste  ;  when  the  stomach 
is  weak,  also  black  or  red  pepper.  In  the 
extreme  weakness  of  delirium  tremeyis,  red 
pepper  may  h^  freely  added  ;  a  little  of  it  is 
suitable  in  nearly  every  case  where  beef- tea 
is  needed.  Beef-tea  should  be  stir-red  just 
before  using  it ,  so  as  to  get  a  rich  brown  color. 

Beef-Tea  Cold-made. — Chop  finely  a 
pound  of  good  beef.     Add   to   it  a  pint  of 


*  To  show  that  fluid  food  may  suffice  even  for  a  length  of 
time,  I  have  just  reaci  an  account  of  a  man  who  died  at  the  age 
i)f  eighty-five  years,  who,  when  seven  years  old,  swallowed  by 
mistake  some  strong  lye,  the  efFe'~t  of  which  was  to  contract  his 
oesophagus  (lower  gullet)  so  much,  that  he  never  afterwards 
tpuld  swallow  solid  food 


314 


cold  water,  in  which  have  been  put  fifteen 
drops  of  chlorohydric  (muriatic)  acid,  and 
a  pinch  of  salt.  L,et  it  stand  an  hour,  and 
then  drain  off  the  liquid.  Pour  another 
half-pint  of  cold  water  over  the  beef  that  is 
left,  and  add  it  to  the  first  quantity.  All 
may  be  then  strained  through  a  coarse  sieve, 
and  used  cold. 

Frozen  Beef-Tea. — Put  a  suitable  por- 
tion of  beef-tea,  made  as  above  first  di- 
rected, in  a  convenient  vessel,  within  an 
ice-cream  freezer.  Let  it  then  be  frozen  as 
if  it  were  cream.  This  is  particularly  suit- 
able in  the  summer  complairit  (cholera  in- 
fantum) of  children  ;  also  in  some  other 
cases  in  hot  weather. 

Beef  Essence. — Cut  up  a  pound  of 
good  lean  beaf  into  small  pieces,  and  put  it 
into  a  pint  bottle  (or  other  handy  recepta- 
cle), without  any  water.  Cork  the  bottle 
loosely  and  place  it  up  to  its  neck  in  water 
in  a  stewpan.  Then  boil  the  water  in  the 
pan  for  three  or  four  hours.  This  will  bring 
out  the  juice  (essence)  of  the  meat,  which 
should  h&  poured  off,  not  strained.  The  fat 
must  be  removed  as  with  beef- tea.  This  is 
the  most  concentrated  of  all  articles  of  food. 
It  is  often  of  the  greatest  value  in  conditions 
of  prostration  ;  as  a  little  of  it  goes  a  great 
way,  while  requiring  almost  no  effort  of  di- 
gestion. Red  pepper  may  usually  be  added 
to  it  in  moderation,  and  salt  according  to 
taste. 

Broiled  Beef  Juice. — Broil  a  pound  of 
lean  beef.  Cut  it  into  strips,  and  press  out 
the  juice  with  a  lemon-squeezer  or  meat- 
press.  A  pound  of  meat  will  give  about 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  "gravy"  or  juice. 
When  salted  according  to  taste,  it  may  be 
taken  either  hot  or  cold,  as  preferred. 

Raw-Beef  Extract. — Cut  up  good  lean 
beef  very  fijie,  and  put  a  pound  of  it  with 
half  a  pint  of  cold  water  in  a  bottle.  Let  it 
soak  for  about  twelve  hours,  shaking  it  well 
half  a  dozen  times  or  more  during  that  time. 
Then  pour  it  off  through  a  coarse  sieve,  and 
salt  according  to  taste. 

Raw-Beef  Scrapings. — Take  a  piece  of 
good  tender  beef,  and,  with  a  rather  dull 
knife,  scrape  off  all  of  it  that  will  come, 
leaving  the  tough,  gristly  portions  behind. 
The  pasty  meat  thus  obtained  may  be  salted 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


71 


a  little  and  used  at  once  as  it  is,  or  it  may 
be  rubbed  up  with  half  its  quantity  of  gran- 
ulated white  sugar.  The  latter  plan  will  be 
likely  to  suit  children  best. 

Good  well-boiled  ham  (as  well  as  dried 
beef)  rnay  be  treated  in  the  same  manner. 
Infants  recovering  from  summer  complaint 
are  sometimes  very  fond  of  such  food. 

Chicken  Broth — Clean  half  a  chicken 
and  remove  the  skin.  Pour  on  it  a  quart  of 
cold  water,  and  salt  to  taste.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  Carolina  rice,  and  boil  slowly 
for  two  or  three  hours.  Then  skim  it  well 
to  get  off  all  the  fat,  and  add  a  little  parsley. 
This  is  one  of  the  most  agreeable  of  dishes 
for  many  sick  people. 

Oatmeai,  Gruel. — Boil  a  pint  of  water, 
and  while  boiling,  mix  with  it  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  (Canada,  Bethlehem,  or  Ohio) 
oatmeal,  which  has  been  first  rubbed  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  water ;  also,  add  half  a  pint 
of  milk,  and  a  little  salt.  Let  all  simmer 
together  for  half  an  hour,  then  strain  it 
through  a  hair-sieve,  sweeten,  and  add  a 
little  nutmeg.  A  few  raisins  may  be  added 
before  the  boiling. 

Indian- Meal  Gruel. — Stir  a  table- 
spoonful  of  Indian  meal  till  it  becomes 
smooth,  in  half  a  teacupful  of  cold  water. 
Then  mix  it  well  with  a  teacupful  of  boiling 
water,  and  add  half  as  much  milk  :  then  boil 
it  until  it  is  moderately  thickened.  Salt  or 
sweeten  according  to  taste.  Raisins  maybe 
put  in  before  boiling,  if  desired. 

Barley  Water. — Wash  well  two  ounces 
of  pearl  barley  with  cold  water,  throwing 
that  water  away.  Put  the  barley  into  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  fresh  cold  water,  bring  it  to 
the  boiling  point,  and  boil  for  twenty  min- 
utes in  a  covered  vessel.  Strain,  sweeten 
to  taste,  and  flavor  with  lemon-juice  and  a 
little  lemon-peel.  In  certain  cases,  as  in 
using  it  to  feed  infants,  the  lemon  had  best 
be  omitted. 

Rice  Water. — Boil  an  ounce  of  Caro- 
lina rice  in  a  quart  of  water  for  an  hour  and 
a  half.  Pour  off  or  strain,  and  add  either 
salt  or  sugar  and  nutmeg,  according  to  taste. 
Salt  will  generally  be  best. 

Toast  Water. — Cut  a  slice  of  stale 
bread  half  an  inch  thick ,  and  toast  it  brown 
all  over,  without  scorching.  Pour  over  it 
a  pint  of  boiling  water  ;  cgver  closely,  and 

31 


let  it  cool ;  then  pour  or  strain  it  off  for  use 
as  a  drink.  Some  patients  like  it  better 
when  a  slice  from  an  apple,  and  a  very  little 
lemon-peel,  are  laid  on  the  toast  before  the 
water  is  added. 

Bread- and-Butter  Soup. — Spread  a 
slice  of  well-baked  bread  with  good  fresh 
butter,  and  sprinkle  it  moderately  with  salt 
and  black  pepper.  Pour  a  pint  of  boiling 
water  over  it,  and  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes 
before  use.  This  will  do  for  patients  who 
are  not  very  sick,  as  a  soft  article  of  low 
diet. 

Panada. — Cut  two  slices  of  stale  bread, 
without  crust.  Toast  them  brown,  cut  them 
up  into  squares  about  two  inches  across, 
lay  them  in  a  bowl,  and  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  a  little  nutmeg.  Pour  on  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  let  it  stand  to  cool. 

Vegetable  Soup. — This  may  be  made, 
of  course,  in  many  different  ways.  The 
following  is  about  the  simplest ;  put  two 
potatoes,  a  handful  of  peas,  one  ripe  tomato, 
and  a  piece  of  bread,  into  a  quart  of  water, 
and  boil  it  down  to  a  pint.  Then  throw  in 
a  little  chopped  celery  or  parsley,  and  salt. 
Cover,  and  remove  from  the  fire.  A  delicate 
stomach  may  require  it  to  be  strained  for 
use. 

Boiled  Flour. — Tie  up  a  quart  of 
wheat  flour  in  a  pudding-bag,  tightly.  Put 
it  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  keep  this 
boiling  for  several  hours  (all  day  or  all 
night  will  not  be  too  long).  Then  take  out 
the  flour  and  dry  it  near  the  fire.  Peel  off 
and  throw  away  the  thin  outer  portion,  and 
grate  down  the  mass,  with  a  nutmeg-grater, 
into  a  powder,  for  use  as  wanted.  One  or 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  this  may  be  rubbed  into 
a  paste  with  a  little  milk,  and  then  stirred 
into  a  pint  of  milk,  which  is  to  be  scalded;  that 
is,  just  brought  to  the  boiling-point,  without 
being  boiled.  This  is  often  beneficial  in  the 
diarrhoeas  of  infants  or  older  persons. 

Arrow-Root. — Mix  a  tablespoonful  or 
rather  more  with  a  little  cold  water,  till  it 
becomes  smooth  and  pasty.  Boil  a  pint  of 
water,  stir  in  the  arrow-root,  and  boil  it  for 
a  few  minutes,  until  it  thickens  sufficiently. 
Sweeten  to  taste  with  white  sugar,  unless  salt 
be  preferred.  A  little  lemon-peel  or  orange- 
peel  added  before  boiling  will  improve  the 
flavor. 


72 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


Tapioca."- -Cover  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
tapioca  with  a  fiiU  teacupful  of  cold  water,  and 
let  it  soak  for  several  hours.  Put  it  then  into 
a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  it  Uxitil  it  is 
clear  and  as  thick  as  is  wanted.  Sugar, 
nutmeg,  lemon,  etc. ,  may  be  used  to  season  it. 

Sago  Jelly. — Mix  well  together  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sago,  the  juice  and  rind  of 
one  lemon,  and  a  quart  of  water.  Sweeten 
to  taste,  let  it  stand  half  an  hour,  and  then 
boil  it,  stirring  constantly  until  clear. 

Farina  Gruel. — Mix  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  farina  with  a  quart  of  water,  and  let 
it  boil  long  enough  to  become  thick.  Add 
a  pint  of  milk  and  a  little  salt,  and  then  boil 
again  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  Sweeten 
according  to  taste. 

Rice  Milk. — Boil  a  tablespoonful  of  rice 
for  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  pint  of  fresh 
milk,  then  rub  it  through  a  fine  sieve.  Add 
a  tablespoonful  of  fine  (granulated)  white 
sugar,  and  boil  again  for  two  or  three 
minutes. 

Oatmeal  with  Beef-Tea.  —  Mix  a 
tablespoonful  of  oatmeal  quite  smoothly  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Add  this 
to  a  pint  of  strong  beef- tea,  and  heat  to  the 
boiling-point,  stirring  all  the  time.  Boil 
for  five  minutes.  Then  remove  from  the 
fire,  skim  off  all  the  fat,  and  serve  for  use. 

Other  occasional  additions  to  beef-tea, 
which  will  agree  with  all  except  the  most 
delicate  stomachs,  are  (though  not  both  at 
once)  raw  egg  and  cream. 

Gelatine  Food. — Soak  for  a  short  tiitie 
in  cold  water  a  piece  of  prepared  gelatine 
two  inches  square.  Boil  it,  then,  in  half  a 
pint  of  water  until  it  dissolves,  which  will 
take  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Rub  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  arrow-root  into  a  paste  with  a 
little  cold  water,  and  stir  it  into  the  gelatine 
water  at  the  end  of  its  boiling.  Add  also 
from  six  to  twelve  tablespoonfuls  (accord- 
ing to  the  child's  age)  of  milk,  from  one  to 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and  a  mod- 
erate amount  of  loaf-sugar. 

Imitation  op  Mother's  Milk. — Ob- 
tain from  a  druggist  packages  of  pure  vtilk- 
sugar  containing,  eich,  seventeen  and  three- 
quarter  d.  cchms.  Dissolve  one  package  in 
a  pint  of  hot  water.  Mix  together  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  one  of  milk,  two 
of  lime-water,  and  three  of  the  milk-sugar 

3 


water.  Warm  this  mixture,  and  add  it  to 
the  pint  of  solution  of  milk-sugar  in  hot 
water.     It  is  then  ready  for  use. 

The  packages  of  milk-sugar,  while  dry, 
will  keep  for  a  long  time.  The  solution  of 
it  should  not,  in  hot  weather,  be  kept  on 
hand  for  more  than  a  day  or  two,  at  most. 

Egg  Broth. — Mix  two  ounces  of  pearl 
sago  in  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  let  it 
stand  half  an  hour.  Then  boil  it  until  it 
becomes  smooth  and  sufficiently  thick. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  four  fresh  eggs  with  half  a 
pint  of  cream  ;  then  mix  with  the  sago,  and 
stir  the  whole  well  with  a  quart  of  beef- tea, 
or  chicken-broth,  just  made  and  at  boiling 
heat. 

Egg  with  Wine. — Beat  up  a  raw  fresh 
Q^g^,  and  stir  with  it  one  or  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sherry  wine.  This,  as  well  as  the 
preparations  that  next  follow,  is  only  suit- 
able where  stimulatio7i  is  required,  under 
the  advice  of  a  physician. 

Caudle. — Beat  up  a  raw  fresh  ^•gg  with 
a  wineglassful  of  sherry  wine,  and  add  it  to 
a  half  pint  of  hot  oatmeal,  Indian  meal,  or 
farina  gruel.  Flavor  with  lemon-peel,  nut- 
meg, and  sugar. 

Wine  Whey. — Boil  half  a  pint  of  milk, 
and  while  boiling  add  half  a  glass  or  a  glass 
of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine.  Strain  off  the 
curd  through  muslin  or  a  sieve.  Sweeten 
the  whey  to  taste,  and  grate  upon  it  a  little 
nutmeg. 

Milk  Punch. — Into  a  tumblerful  of 
milk  put  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
whiskey,  brandy,  or  rum.  Sweeten,  and 
grate  nutmeg  upon  it.  In  some  ve7'y  low 
states  of  the  system,  punch  may  be  directed 
by  physicians  made  still  stronger  than  this, 
even  as  much  as  a  tablespoonful  of  whiskey 
to  one  of  milk  ;  but  the  use  of  such  a  pow- 
erful means  of  alcoholic  stimulation  needs 
great  skill  and  judgment. 

Koumiss. — This  mildly  stimulant  and 
somewhat  nourishing  Tartar  and  Russian 
drink  is  made  by  fermenting  mare  s  milk. 
It  may  be  quite  well  imitated,  however,  by 
adding  to  a  quart  of  coiv' s  milk  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  granulated  white  sugar,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  brewer's  yeast,  and  leaving  the 
mixture  to  ferment  in  a  covered  vessel  or 
corked  bottle.  When  this  change  has 
shown  itself  by  the  bubbles  of  eflfervesceace. 
i6 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


73 


it  is  ready  for  use.  If  kept  for  any  time, 
it  should  be  in  strong  bottles  tightly  corked 
(the  corks  tied  down)  and  in  a  cool  place. 

Roast  Oysters. — Convalescents  can 
sometimes  relish  and  digest  these  sooner 
than  any  other  solid  food.  Place  a  dozen 
fresh  oysteis  in  the  shell  upon  a  moderately 
strong  fire,  and  allow  them  to  remain  there 
until  their  shells  open  a  little.  Then  take 
them  from  the  fire,  open  them  at  once,  re- 
taining the  juice  if  possible,  and  serve  them 
hot,  with  perhaps  a  little  black  pepper,  and 
salt  if  needed.  If  the  ' '  hard  part  "  is  at  all 
tough,  it  had  better  not  be  eaten. 

To  Keep  Ice  for  the  Sick. — Cut  a 
piece  of  clean  flannel  about  eight  inches 
square.  Put  this  (after  making  a  small  hole 
in  the  centre)  over  the  top  of  a  glass 
tumbler,  pressing  the  flannel  down  to  half 
or  more  of  the  depth  of  the  tumbler.  Then 
bind  the  flannel  fast  to  the  tumbler  with  a 
tape  or  cord.  When  ice  is  put  into  this 
flannel  cup,  lay  over  it  another  piece  of  clean 
flannel,  three  or  four  inches  square.  So 
covered,  it  will  keep  for  hours,  even  in  warm 
weather. 

FivOUR  Food  for  Infants. — I^et  from 
five  to  ten  pounds  of  selected  wheat  flour  be 
packed  in  a  bag  so  as  to  form  a  ball,  tied 
with  a  strong  cord,  and  boiled  with  the 
water  constantly  covering  it  from  four  to 
seven  days.  The  starch  appears  to  be  so 
changed  that  it  is  more  soluble  and  more 
quickl)^  and  easily  digested.  It  is  not  neces- 
sary that  the  water  be  constantly  boiled, 
provided  that  it  remain  hot  or  warm— the 
fire  may  go  out  at  night.  The  same  change 
may  be  effected  by  dry  heat,  the  flour  being 
placed  in  pans  in  the  oven  or  on  the  stove, 
but  it  is  very  liable  to  be  scorched  by  an  ex- 
cess of  heat. 

The  flour  removed  from  the  bag  and  de- 
prived of  its  external  portion,  which  is  wet, 
resembles  a  piece  of  chalk,  but  it  has  a 
yellowish  tinge.  The  flour  should  be  grated 
from  it  as  it  is  required  for  use,  and  sifted  to 
separate  the  small  lumps  which  are  likely 
to  be  broken  off  by  the  sieve.  The  infant 
will  be  better  nourished  if  instead  of  dilut- 
ing the  milk  with  which  it  is  fed  with  plain 
water,  a  thin  gruel  prepared  by  boiling  a 
few  minutes  this  flour  in  water,  be  employed. 


317 


Two  heaped  teaspoonfuls  of  the  flour  to  a 
pint  of  water  suffice  for  infants  under  the 
age  of  three  months,  three  teaspoonfuls  for 
infants  between  the  ages  of  three  and  six 
months,  and  four  teaspoonfuls  to  the  pint  of 
water  after  the  age  of  six  months.  The  pro- 
portion of  the  gruel  to  the  milk  should  be 
the  same  as  stated  above  when  pure  water 
is  employed. 

Giving  Medicines. 

No  one  who  cannot  read  should  pour 
out  a  dose  of  medicine.  Bottles  containing 
poisonous  drugs  should  be  labeled  poison, 
and  such  should,  when  practicable,  be  kept 
apart  by  themselves  ;  and  should,  especially, 
never  be  left  within  the  reach  of  children. 
Before  pouring  out  or  otherwise  preparing  a 
dose  of  medicine,  look  carefully  at  the  label. 
No  medicine  should  ever  be  kept  in  a  bottle  or 
other  receptacle  without  a  label.  If  a  bottle 
which  has  contained  one  medicine  is  wanted 
for  another,  let  it  be  thoroughly  washed  with 
hot  water  ;  and,  on  putting  something  new 
into  it,  change  the  label  at  once.  If  there 
is  any  doubt  about  the  medicine  in  a  bottle, 
throw  it  away,  do  not  venture  to  use  it  with- 
out being  sure  of  its  nature. 

After  looking  well  at  the  label,  before 
beginning  to  pour  from  th^  bottle,  turn  the 
labeled  side  away,  so  as  not  to  pour  over  it ; 
as  some  drops  are  apt  to  run  down  on  the 
bottle,  and  might  thus  stain  and  obscure  the 
label  so  that  it  could  not  be  read. 

Dropping  medicine  requires  care  and 
skill.  To  do  it,  moisten  one  edge  of  the 
top  of  the  bottle  with  the  contents  of  the 
bottle,  and  then,  holding  and  tilting  the 
latter  in  the  right  hand,  with  the  left  very 
slowly  and  cautiously  withdraw  the  cork  or 
stopper,  until  a  drop  rolls  out.  As  this 
comes  out,  at  once  push  the  cork  in,  and 
then  repeat  the  same  process  again  and 
again ,  until  the  right  number  of  drops  has 
been  obtained. 

To  give  medicine  (or  liquid  food)  to  a 
patient  too  ill  to  be  lifted  up  in  the  bed,  a 
bent  glass  tube  is  very  convenient ;  and  so 
are  the  half-covered  spoons  and  cups  sold 
by  apothecaries.  Glass  vessels  with  the 
quantities  marked  on  them  are  conveniept 


74 


ACCIDENTS  AND  INJURIES 


In  all  cases  of  accidents  coolness  and 
presence  of  mind  are  of  the  utmost  conse- 
quence. Danger  is  increased  by  alarm  and 
confusion.     One  who  has  his  senses  about 


ROrXING   A   BANDAGE. 


BANDAGED   LIMB. 


him  may,  by  simple  and  prompt  action,  in 
some  instances,  avert  serious  harm. 

Bandagijig.  The  purpose  of  bandaging 
is  to  retain  certain  parts  of  the  body,  or 
"dressings"  upon  it,  in  position,  without 

318 


too  much  pressure ;  or,  sometimes,  to  maiu 
pressure  for  a  time  or  even  continuously. 

Material  for  bandages  may  be  unbleached 
muslin,  about  as  thick  as  that  which  is  used 
for  sheets  ;  or  soft  un- 
glazed  linen.  It  must 
vary  i  n  width  and 
length  according  es- 
pecially t  o  the  part 
upon  which  it  is  to  be 
applied.  For  the  chest, 
as  for  a  fractured  rib 
it  should  be  about  foui 
inches  wide ;  for  the 
thigh  or  leg  of  a  man, 
two  and  a  half  to  three 
inches  ;  for  the  arm, 
two  to  two  and  a  half 
inches ;  if  used  for  a 
finger.an  inch  in  width 
will  answer.  The 
length  may  vary  from 
a  yard  or  two  to  five  01 
six  yards  in  a  roll. 

How  to  roll  up  a 
bandage  is  a  matter  of 
simple  management. 
After  doubling  an  end 
for  a  beginning,  take 
it  in  one  hand,  between 
the  ends  of  the  thumb 
and  fingers,  with  the 
rolled  part  downwards; 
holding  the  bandage 
then  between  the  side 
of  the  forefinger  and 
the  thumb  of  the  other 
hand,  so  that  it  may 
slide  between  the  fin- 
ger and  the  thumb  of 
that  hand,  as  it  is 
drawn  and  rolled 
up  by  the  fingers  of 
the  other.  In  hos- 
pitals they  some- 
times have  a  small  instrument  with  which  to 
roll  bandages  rapidly. 

Two  rules  are  very  important  in  bandag- 
ing. First,  never  make  any  bandage  so 
tight  as  entirely  to  check  the  movement  <ai 


REVERSING    BANnAGE 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


75 


blood,  unless  for  a  short  time  (as  witli 
Esmarch's  rubber-tube  compression  to  pre- 
vent hemorrhage  in  operations)  to  arrest 
bleeding ;  and  second,  never  so  apply  a 
bandage  as  to  compress  veins  in  a  way  to 
cause  swelling  below  it.  To  fulfil  the  first 
of  these  rules,  the  feeling  of  the  patient,  and 
one's  own  common  sense,  will  generally 
sufiice.  In  regard  to  the  second,  the  neck, 
of  course,  must  not  be  so  bound  as  to  inter- 
fere v/ith  the  return  of  blood  from  the  head 
through  the  jugular  veins  ;  and,  when  an 
arm,  or  any  part  of  it,  is  bandaged,  the 
hand  also  must  be  covered  ;  if  it  be  the 
thigh,  or  leg,*  all  below  it,  including  the 
foot,  must  be  equally  compressed.  Other- 
wise, the  parts  below  the  bandage  would 
swell  up,  and  might,  if  so  kept  long,  even 
mortify. 

When  bandaging  the  forearm  and  arm,  it 
is  best  to  begin  by  passing  the  bandage 
around  the  wrist ;  then  turn  it  down  over 
the  hand  and  cover  it ;  afterwards  go,  with 
reverses,  up  the  forearm,  and,  if  necessary, 
the  arm.  In  covering  the  lower  extremity 
with  a  bandage,  begin  in  like  manner  around 
the  ankle ;  next  go  around  the  foot ;  and 
then,  with  reverses,  up  the  leg. 

To  apply  a  bandage  to  any  part,  take 
the  bandage  in  the  right  hand,  with  the  out- 
side of  the  roll  held  in  the  palm,  and  the 
thumb  touching  the  part  which  is  being 
unrolled,  along  the  edge  of  the  roll,  inside. 
The  left  hand  is  then  to  fix  the  end,  and 
succeeding  parts,  of  the  bandage  in  place 
where  it  is  applied.  Reversing  is  done  to 
make  the  bandage  lie  smoothly  on  an  uneven 
surface  ;  as  the  hand,  foot,  forearm,  leg,  etc. 
It  is  effected  by  turning  the  right  hand 
which  holds  the  roll,  so  as  to  obliquely  dou- 
ble the  bandage,  for  one  or  more  turns,  as 
required.  A  little  practice  will  make  this 
easy  enough. 

Burns  and  Scalds. — Burns  are  caused 
by  dry  heat,  or  by  something  else  than 
water ;  scalds  by  boiling  water,  steam,  or 
other  hot  fluids.  The  danger  to  life  of  either 
is  in  proportion  to  their  extent  of  surface, 
and  their  depth.  Even  a  superficial  burn 
or  scald  will  kill,  if  it  involve  so  much  as 
half,  some  authorities  say  two-fifths  of  the 
body.  Death  is  then  produced  in  two  ways  ; 
by  the  shock,  and  by  the  arrest  of  the  ueces- 

31 


sary  functional  action  of  the  skin.  The  treat- 
ment of  burns  and  scalds  is  essentially  the 
sam.e  for  both. 

What  to  do  when  one's  clothes  have  caught 
fire,  is  important.  Seize  a  shawl,  rug,  mat, 
coat,  or  overcoat,  if  any  be  within  reach,  and 
wrap  it  closely  around  the  burning  part. 
Or,  if  not,  lie  down  and  roll  on  the  carpet; 
at  the  same  time  crushing  the  burning  gar- 
ment with  the  hands.  If  one  sees  another 
person  on  fire,  the  same  thing  out  to  be 
done.  A  man's  overcoat,  or  a  rug,  etc., 
may  be  thrown  closely  about  the  victim  of 
the  flames,  who  should  be  quickly  laid  down 
on  the  floor,  so  as  to  be  covered  more  read- 
ily and  entirely.  The  reason  for  this  is, 
that  the  way  to  extinguish  any  fire,  large  or 
small,  is,  to  shut  out  the  air  from  it. 

When  a  person  is  badly  burned,  the 
shock  to  the  nervous  system  is  followed  by 
prostration  or  collapse.  There  is  great  weak- 
ness, pallor  of  face,  flickering  pulse,  short 
breathing,  and  coldness  of  the  body.  For 
this  condition,  opium,  in  the  form  of  lauda- 
num (fifteen  drops  at  once,  repeated  if  neces- 
sary in  an  hour,  until  three  or  four  doses 
have  been  taken)  is  a  good  stimulus.  Small 
quantities  of  whiskey  or  brandy  also,  one  or 
two  teaspoonfuls  at  a  time,  may  be  given,  at 
half-hour  intervals,  for  a  while  ;  to  be  with- 
held at  once  when  signs  of  reaction  come. 
Such  signs  are,  strengthening  of  the  pulse, 
warming  of  the  skin,  and  return  of  color  to 
the  face. 

Applications  for  Burns. — For  the  burn 
or  scald  itself,  there  is  no  better  application 
than  lime  water  and  oil  (flaxseed,  olive,  or 
lard  oil)  mixed  together  in  equal  parts.  lyint, 
if  it  can  be  had,  if  not,  muslin  or  linen  rags, 
should  be  well  wet  with  this,  and  laid  all 
over  the  burn.  If  the  burnt  surface  be  ex- 
tensive, over  the  lime-water  and  oil  dressing 
put  a  layer  of  cotton  wadding,  for  warmth. 
Should  it  be  a  small  burn,  put  instead  of  this 
a  piece  of  oiled  silk,  oiled  paper,  or  rubber 
cloth. 

A  burned  hand  or  foot  will  obtain  the 
best  relief  by  being  held  in  cold  water  for 
some  time.  A  remedy  for  limited  burns 
which  has  lately  become  popular  is,  a  satu- 
rated solution  of  soda  (sodium -bicarbonate). 
Other  applications  sometimes  used  are,  sim- 
ple   oil    (lamp-oil,    castor- oil.    etc,),    and 


76 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


powdered  starch.  But  nothing  is  equal  in 
effect  to  the  "  carron  oil,"  as  the  mixture  of 
lime-water  and  oil  has  long  been  called. 

When  the  sufferer's  clothing  covers  the 
burn,  it  should  be  carefully  removed  by 
untying,  unbuttoning,  and  cutting  every- 
thing needful,  so  as  to  get  all  off  without 
pulling  or  much  moving  the  injured  body. 
Raised  water-blisters  should  be  merely 
nicked  to  let  out  the  water ;  leaving  the 
cuticle  to  protect  the  true  skin  underneath. 
Then  apply  the  dressing  above  spoken  of. 
If  the  patient  reacts  and  does  well,  the  lime- 
water  and  oil  rags  must  be  renewed  when 
they  begin  to  get  dry  ;  taking  them  off  with 
extreme  gentleness,  so  as  to  disturb  the 
parts  as  little  as  possible.  After  two  or 
three  days,  a  dressing  of  simple  cerate ^ 
thickly  spread  on  lint  or  soft  rags,  may  be 
substituted  for  the  oily  dressing.  Deep  and 
extensive  burns  are  sometimes  very  slow  to 
heal,  and  leave  ugly  contracting  scars  which 
may  require  special  surgical  attention. 

Choking;  Strangling. — These  are  not 
the  same  in  causation  ;  but  the  danger  is  in 
both  the  same — stoppage  of  breathing  by  an 
obstruction  in  the  windpipe.  In  choking, 
properly  so  called,  the  obstacle  is  within  the 
throat;  in  strangling,  it  is  from  a  cord, 
etc.,  outside  of  and  around  it;  as  in  hang- 
ing. 

Choking  is  most  frequently  caused  by 
getting  something  "the  wrong  way"  in 
swallowing.  That  is,  what  should  go  down 
into  the  gullet  or  swallowing  \\\xo-^\.(^  pharynx 
and  (Tsophagus^  gets  into  the  windpipe  {la- 
rynx and  trachea).  The  windpipe  is  just  in 
front  of  the  swallowing  gullet ;  the  latter  is 
next  to  the  spine.  When  one  laughs,  or  in 
any  way  breathes,  while  swallowing,  this 
accident  may  happen.  Even  a  drop  of 
water  going  the  wrong  way,  will  cause  a 
distressing  spasm  of  the  windpipe  ;  but  this 
is  over  in  a  few  moments.  Danger  follows 
when  a  solid  mass — as  a  mouthful  of  meat, — 
slips  into  the  larynx  ;  or  when  a  large  piece 
of  meat  gets  stuck  fast  in  the  pharyiix 
(gullet)  so  as  to  press  on  the  trachea  (wind- 
pipe) forcibly  enough  to  keep  air  from  being 
breatned  through  it  into  the  lungs.  Com- 
monest of  all,  perhaps,  is  a  fish-bone,  or  a 
chicken -bone,  getting  crosswise,  so  that  it 


320 


neither  goes  up   nor  down.     Other  things 
may  slip  into  the  windpipe. 

No  time  is  to  be  lost,  when  any  one  is 
choking.      A   long-fingered  person   should 
try   to   dip  a  forefinger  at   once   into   the 
throat  as  far  as  it  will  reach,  to  draw  up  and 
out  the  offending  bone,  or  whatever  it  is.  If 
it  is  a  child,  lift  him  up  by  the  heels  and  slap 
him  smartly,  while  in  that  position,  between 
the  shoulders.    Children  sometimes  swallow 
pins  ;  they  stick,   as  bones  are  apt  to  do, 
across  the  entrance  to  the  throat,  pretty  far 
up.     Surgeons    have  long  slender  forceps 
and  other  instruments  with  which  to  seize 
such  articles  and  withdraw  them.     All  such 
things,  everything  except  a  piece  of  solid 
food  in  the  swallowing  throat,  should   be 
taken  out,  not  pushed  down.    If  time  allows, 
a  piece  of  wire  may  have  a  loop  made  in  its 
end,  and  then  be  curved  near  that  end,  so 
as  to  be  passed  down,  behind  or  below  the 
obstacle,  to  draw  it  out.     A  proof  that  the 
thing  is  in  the  windpipe  is  obtained  if  the 
person  can  swallow  a  drink  of  water,  yet 
has  great  distress  and  difficulty  in  breathing. 
This  difficulty  is  great  in  expiration  (out- 
breathing)   as  well   as   in   inspiration.      A 
physician  being  sent  for  immediately,  in  an 
urgent  case,  fatal  suffocation  being  threat- 
ened,   may  find  it   necessary   to   opc7t   the 
larynx  or  trachea,  by  an  incision,  in  order 
to  save  life.     If  the  immediate  danger  be 
passed,  the  question  of  such  an  operation 
may  still  have  to  be  considered,  when  a  for- 
eign body  remains  in  any  part  of  the  air- 
passages. 

Sti^angling  is  best  known  in  the  form  of  • 
hanging,  which  is  a  frequent  mode  of  sui- 
cide. If  any  one  is  found  hanging  by  the 
neck,  hold  up  the  weight  of  the  body,  and 
at  once  loosen  the  cord  at  the  neck  ;  cutting 
it  will  generally  be  the  speediest  way,  if  a 
knife  is  at  hand.  Then  lay  the  person 
down,  and,  with  as  much  fresh  air  around 
as  possible,  dash  cold  water  lightly  on  the 
face  (if  it  be  in  a  warm  place,  on  the  bare 
chest  also).  Rub  the  arms  and  legs  briskly, 
especially  tipwards,  to  favor  the  movement 
of  blood  in  the  veins,  which  is  towards  the 
heart,  Heai''  a  poker  or  flat-iron,  not  quite 
to  a  burning  heat,  but  so  that  a  hand  can- 
not rest  on  it  long  with  comfort ;  and  touch 
that  gently  upon  the  pit  of  the  stomach,  and 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


71 


then  draw  xi  along  down  each  side  of  the 
back.  Apply  mustard-plasters  to  the  legs. 
But  all  these  things  should  be  got  ready 
and  done  by  the  secondary  assistant  or  as- 
sistants.    If  a  person  cut  down  from  hang- 


ARTIFICIAL   RESPIRATION. 


ing  does  not  breathe,  he  should  be  laid  on 
his  back  on  the  floor  or  ground ,  wherever 
he  is,  without  loss  of  time.  A  roll  of  cloth- 
ing, like  a  round  knapsack,  should  be  placed 
under  his  shoulders ;  and  then  artificial 
respiration  should  be  attempted,  by  Sil- 
vester's method.     See  Drowning. 

Drowning, — One  whole  minute   under 
water  will,    except    with   a   few  practised 
divers,  end  life  in  a  human  being.    Still,  by 
active  means,  those  longer  immersed, 
as  much  as  five  minutes,    have  been 
restored.     It   is   always   worth   while 
and  right  to  give  every  drowned  person 
the  benefit  of  the  doubt,  and  to  work 
over  him  for  at  least  an  hour,  even  if 
no  signs  of  life  appear,  before  giving 
him  up.     Drowning  kills  by  exclusion 
of  air  from  the   blood  in  the  lungs  ; 
water  taking  its  place.     This  is  said 
to  be  an  easy  mode  of  death.     Those 
recovered  from  it  describe  it  as  a  sort 
of  dreamy  sleep,  followed  by  entire  un 
consciousness. 

A  person  has  been,  we  will  suppose,  a 
few  minutes  under  water,  and  is  dragged 
out.  At  once,  on  the  spot,  lay  him  first  on 
his  stomach,  and  raise  his  feet  a  little  higher 
than  his  head,  for  a  few  moments  ;  some 
one  at  the  same  time  pressing  with  moderate 
force  on  the  sides  of  the  chest.     The  object 


of  this   is  to  let  v^2X&c  fiow  out,  if  it  will, 
from  the  lungs. 

Next,  lay  the  patient  on  his  back,  and 
put  under  his  shoulders  a  roll  of  clothing, 
such  as  a  rolled-up  overcoat,  a  hard  pillow, 
etc.     Draw  out  his  tongue, 
ywith  a   thumb  and  finger, 
and  get  some  one  to  hold  it 
until  it  can  be  fixed  forward, 
to  prevent   it  from   falling 
back   and   closing  the  en- 
trance   to    the    windpipe. 
For  this   fixation   a    small 
india-rubber  band   will  be 
best.     If  none  such   is  on 
purr-hand,  a  paper-cutter,  g:  a 
small  stick,    may  be  held 
upon  the  drawn-out  tongue, 
pressing  it  upon  the  lower 
teeth. 

Now  comes  the  effort  to 
produce    artificial   respira- 
tion.    Silvester's  method  is  the  best. 

Stand  or  kneel  behind  his  head,  and 
take  hold  of  his  arms  just  above  the  elbows. 
Draw  them  both  gently  and  steadily  up- 
wards, over  and  back  of  the  head,  at  their 
full  length ;  and  keep  them  there  for  a 
second  or  so.  Then  carry  them  back  again 
to  the  patient's  sides,  and  press  the  elbows 
firmly  against  his  sides,  for  another  second 
or  so.     Go  on   doing   this,   perse veringly, 


ARTIFICIAL   RESPIRATION 


321 


if  necessary,  for  an  hour  or  more.  The 
object  of  it  is,  to  promote  expansion  of 
the  lungs  to  admit  air,  by  the  first  move- 
ment;  and  its  expansion,  again  by  the 
second  movement. 

Meanwhile,  another  assistant  should  cut 
the  clothing  so  as  to  remove  it,  rub  the  skin 
dry,  and  cover  the  body  with  warm  flannel. 


7^ 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


The  legs  may  be  rubbed  briskly,  upward,  so 
as  to  favor  the  return  of  blood  in  the  veins 
to  the  heart.  Smelling-salts  may  be  now 
and  then  held  for  a  few  moments  under  the 
nostrils.  If  a  fire  be  near,  heat  a  small  flat- 
iron,  or  a  poker,  or  shovel,  not  quite  to  the 
burning  point,  but  pretty  hot,  and  touch  it 
gently,  again  and  again,  to  the  skin  over  the 
pit  of  the  stomach.  This  is  a  powerful 
mode  of  stimulation. 

When  natural  breathing  begins,  stop  the 
arm  movements.  Continue  the  rubbing,  but 
also  have  hot  bricks,  flat-irons,  or  bags  of 
sand  or  salt,  bottles  of  hot  water,  or  any- 
thing else  warm,  laid  alongside  of  the 
patient's  body,  and  put  to  his  feet.  Get 
him  now  upon  a  bed.  Shortly,  he  will  re- 
cover so  as  to  swallow  ;  and  hot  viilk  or  hot 
coffee  or  tea  will  be  better  for  him  than  any- 
thing else. 

Ear,  Foreign  Bodies  in.— So  disagree- 
able is  the  odor  of  the  natural  ear-wax,  and 
so  sticky  is  it  to  insect's  feet  and  the  bodies 
of  grubs  or  worms,  that  they  very  seldom 
find  their  way  into  any  one's  ear ;  even 
when  sleeping  on  open  ground  or  in  the 
woods.  Once  in  a  great  while  such  a  thing 
may  happen.  To  get  an  insect  out,  let  the 
person  lie  on  the  other  side,  and  let  some 
one  pour  in,  slowly,  cold  water.  Alarm 
may  then  cause  it  to  back  out ;  if  not  before 
long  the  water  will  drown  it.  Then  the 
larger  part,  or  the  whole  (if  it  be  not  too 
soft)  may  be  got  out  with  a  pair  of  ear-picks, 
or  with  a  hair-pin  bent  into  a  scoop  at  its 
round  end,  or  a  piece  of  wire  bent  at  one 
end  into  a  small  loop  or  ring.  Particles  still 
left  can  be  washed  out  with  warm  water 
injected  from  a  small  syringe. 

Children  sometimes  put  peas  into  their 
own  or  one  another's  ears.  Then,  water 
should  not  be  poured  in  ;  it  would  make 
the  pea  swell  up  and  give  more  trouble. 
Careful  use  of  an  ear  pick  or  bent  wire  (as 
above),  with  a  strong  light  thrown  upon 
the  ear -passage,  will  generally  succeed  in 
getting  the  pea  out.  A  large  hand-magni- 
fier, such  as  is  often  used  to  look  at  engrav- 
ings, etc.,  will  help  in  this  efi"ort.  If  a  shot 
has  been  put  into  the  ear,  pour  in  a  tea- 
spoonfui  of  olive  or  almond  oil,  and  then 
let  the  child  be  turned  rather  suddenly  over, 
so  as  to  cause  the  shot  to  roll  or  slide  out. 

32 


Eye,  Foreign  Bodies  in. — Small  parti- 
cles, of  sand,  dust,  cinders,  from  a  locomo- 
tive, etc.,  often  get  under  the  upper  or 
lower  eyelid  ;  most  frequently  the  latter.  If 
the  particle  be  very  small,  closing  the  eyes 
and  blowing  the  nose  hard  several  times, 
rolling  the  eyeballs  at  the  same  time,  will 
be  apt  to  work  it,  by  aid  of  the  flow  of  tears, 
to  the  inner  corner  of  the  eye  ;  where  it  can 
be  easily  removed.  To  relieve  another  per- 
son of  such  an  annoyance,  first  make  sure 
where  it  is.  Open  the  eye  in  a  strong  light, 
and  draw  down  the  lower  lid.  Use  a  magni- 
fying glass,  if  one  can  be  got  (a  good  thing 
always  to  have  in  a  house).  If  you  see  the 
speck,  a  camel' s-hair  pencil  (small  paint- 
brush) will  be  the  best  thing  to  get  it  out 
with.  Draw  the  brush  backwards  against 
it ;  don't  push  at  it  with  the  point  of  the 
brush.  If  there  is  no  such  brush  at  hand, 
the  corner  of  a  soft  handkerchief  may  be 
used  instead. 

Should  nothing  be  found  under  the  lower 
lid,  you  must  look  under  the  upper  one. 
Seat  the  person  on  a  chair,  and  stand  behind 
him  ;  then,  with  his  head  leaning  back, 
hold  a  lead-pencil  or  pen-holder  in  the  right 
hand,  and,  drawing  out  the  upper  lid  by  its 
lashes,  the  patient  looking  downward,  you 
lay  the  pencil  along  the  lid  and  turn  the 
latter  up  ov'er  the  pencil.  It  is  not  difficult, 
with  a  little  confidence,  to  do  this  with  a 
finger  instead  of  a  pencil,  and  standing  in 
front  of  the  patient.  While  the  lid  is  turned 
up,  look  closely  to  find  the  intruding  parti- 
cle, and  remove  it  with  a  brush  or  a  hand- 
kerchief, as  above  described.  The  eyes 
must  then  be  kept  at  rest,  closed  for  a  while, 
to  get  over  the  disturbance;  otherwise 
a  troublesome  inflammation  may  result. 
Quite  often,  when  there  has  been  a  particle 
in  the  eye,  but  it  has  been  rubbed  out,  there 
will  still  be  left  2^  feeling,  exactly  as  if  it  was 
still  there.  When  this  is  the  case,  a  careful 
examination  showing  it  to  be  so,  the  irrita- 
tion will  gradually  disappear,  if  the  eyes  are 
kept  quiet. 

Pieces  of  stone  or  iron  sometimes  fly  into 
the  eyes  and  lodge  in  the  front  of  the  ball. 
Their  removal  will  require  surgical  skill.  A 
powerful  magnet  may  assist  in  getting  out  a 
fragment  of  steel  or  iron  from  the  eye. 

After  all,  to  get  a  movable  particle  out  of 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


79 


ane  cJ  eye,  the  best  way  in  most  cases  will 
be  for  the  person  to  open  both  eyes  in  a 
basin  of  clean  cold  water  ;-  moving  the  head 
once  or  twice  from  side  to  side  while  they 
are  open,  so  as  to  wash  the  particle  out  of  the 
e5'e. 

Fainting. — One  who  faints,  falls,  unless 
held  up,  as  when  standing  or  sitting  up  in  a 
crowded  place.  But  not  every  fall  is  faint- 
ing. It  may  be  an  epileptic  fit ;  but  then 
the  patient  is  convulsed;  that  is,  his  limbs, 
and  perhaps  the  muscles  of  his  face,  jerk. 
There  is  a  modified  form  of  epileptic  attack, 
not  common,  in  which  the  sufierer  lies  still ; 
In  that,  however,  the  pulse  is  not  so  weak 
as  in  syncope  or  fainting. 

One  attacked  with  apoplexy  falls  ;  but 
tiis  flushed  (or  at  least  not  pale)  face,  warm 
or  hot  head,  slow  and  full  pulse,  and  slow, 
snoring  breathing,  make  the  case  clear.  An 
intoxicated  person,  or  one  stupefied  with 
opium,  may  be  found  lying  unconscious. 
The  odor  of  liquor  in  the  former,  ana  the 
contracted  pupils  of  the  eyes  of  the  latter, 
usually  serve  for  distinctions.  (Odor  of 
liquor  on  the  breath,  however,  does  not 
prove  that  the  person  may  not  have  apo- 
plexy as  well  as  intoxication.) 

In  a  faint,  the  face  is  pale,  the  forehead 
cool  or  cold,  the  pulse  absent  or  extremely 
weak,  the  breathing  noiseless  and  feeble. 
Once  in  a  while  we  meet  with  mixed 
attacks ;  almost  always  in  those  whose 
hearts  have  undergone  some  degenerative 
change  ;  in  which  there  is  a  partial  stupor, 
perhaps  with  snoring  breathing,  along  with 
the  other  signs  of  fainting.  Such  an  attack 
differs  from  apoplexy  in  that  it  soon  passes 
off,  and  leaves  no  palsy  after  it.  But  such 
spells  are  comparatively  rare. 

Fainting  is  most  common  in  young 
women  ;  next  so,  in  weakly  old  people  o± 
either  sex.  In  these  last  it  is  most  danger- 
ous, and  may  in  them  easily  end  in  death. 
What  happens  in  a  faint  is  this  ;  the  heart 
gives  out,  and  sends  no  fresh  blood  to  the 
brain  ;  the  brain  fails,  therefore,  to  maintain 
consciousness,  and  the  person  falls.  This 
fall  is  advantageous,  because  it  causes  more 
blood  to  flow  to  the  brain,  and,  conscious- 
ness being  renewed,  the  heart  also  having 
less  laborious  work  when  the  body  is  level, 
all  starts  again.    A  crowded  and  close  room 


is  a  frequent  place  for  fainting.  Fright,  the 
sight  of  blood,  and  other  mental  causes,  as 
well  as  fatigue,  may  produce  it,  in  those  lia- 
ble to  it.  Some  persons  never  faint,  through 
a  long  lifetime  ;  others  do  so  often,  even  on 
very  small  occasions. 

What  to  do  for  fainting?  Lay  the  person 
down  at  once.  Get  the  crowd,  if  there  be 
one,  to  move  away.  Open  the  windows, 
or  carry  the  unconscious  patient  (horizon- 
tally) out  into  the  fresh  air.  Sprinkle  cold 
water  on  the  face ;  loosen  everything  about 
the  neck  and  chest ;  hold  smelling-salts,  for 
a  moment  at  a  time,  under  the  nostrils.  An 
ordinary  syncopal  attack  will  thus  soon  pass 
away. 

Fractures — Broken  Bones. — Most  fre- 
quently broken  is  the  radius;  the  thumb- 
side  bone  of  the  forearm,  which  is  most 
closely  connected  with  the  hand.  We  may 
break  it  by  falling  on  the  hand  with  force. 
In  the  same  way  also  the  ulna  may  be  frac- 
tured ;  the  other  bone  of  the  forearm.  Next 
often  broken  is  the  bone  of  the  arm  (hume- 
rus) above  the  elbow ;  and  frequently  also 
the  clavicle^  or  collar-bone.  After  these 
(besides  fractures  Qi\}ci& fingers^,  come  frac- 


BROKEN  ARM  IN  SPLINTS 


323 


tures  of  the  larger  bone  of  the  leg  {tibia  ^ 
shin-bone)  below  the  knee ;  the  thigh-bone 
{femur)  ;  of  the  ribs  ;  of  the  knee-pan  ;  and 
of  the  nose,  lower  jaw,  and  skull. 

We  know  a  bone  to  be  broken  by  the 
change  in  its  shape ;  the  pain  caused  by 
every  movement ;  and  the  crackling  noise 
(not  loud),  and  crackling  feeling  to  the 
touch,  produced  when  the  parts  are  moved. 
A  broken  limb  is  generally  shortened  ;  the 
muscles  above  and  below  the  place  of  frac- 
ture drawing  the  two  pieces  so  as  to  overlap 


8o 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


each  other.  When  the  break  is  near  a  joint, 
it  is  sometimes  difficult  to  be  sure  whether 
there  is  a  fracture  or  a  dislocation.  This 
difficulty  is  much  increased  when  swelling 
and  inflammation  follow,  some  hours  after 
an  injury.  In  examining  to  determine  a 
change  of  shape  in  a  limb,  always  compare 
it  with  its  own  fellow,  on  the  opposite  side 
of  the  body.  The  two  are  almost  sure,  when 
riound,  to  be  alike  ;  and  if  not  so  after  one 
is  hurt,  this  will  help  us  to  an  understand- 
ing of  the  case.  There  is  a  change  of  shape 
also  in  dislocations ;  but  in  them  the  bones 
cannot  be  moved 
without  great  resist- 
ance ;  there  is  no 
crackling  (crepita- 
tion) heard  or  felt ; 
and  when  the  bone 
is  put  back  in  its 
right  place,  it  will 
stay  there. 

The  most  serious 
fractures  are  those 
called  compound 
fractures  ;  in  which 
there  is  a  wound  of 
the  flesh,  communi- 

FINGKR  BANDADE,    AND  F-GURK    CatiUS"        W  1  t  ll  t  h   6 

broken  ends  of  the 
bone.  Sometimes  one  end  of  a  fragment  is 
forced  quite  out  through  the  skin. 

In  the  trcatmefit  of  fractured  bones,  the 
two  aims  are,  to  get  the  broken  parts  into 
their  right  places  again,  and  to  keep  them 
there  until  they  ' '  knit  together. ' '  This 
takes  place  by  a  natural  process  of  growth, 
exactly  like  that  by  which  a  wound  is  healed 
on  the  surface  of  the  body.  A  thick  color- 
less '^\x\^,  plastic  lymph,  is  poured  out  around 
and  between  the  ends  of  the  fragments 
of  the  broken  bone.  Gradually  this 
fluid  is,  between  those  fragment-ends, 
changed  to  gristle  (cartilage)  ;  and,  in 
time,  that  gristle  becomes  solid  bone. 
In  one  bone,  when  broken,  the  k7iee- 
pan  {patella),  it  seldom  gets  beyond  the 
stage  of  gristle  or  cartilage ;  because 
that  bone,  from  its  situation,  receives 
little  blood  to  enable  it  to  grow  or  repair  so 
well  as  other  parts. 

Putting  a  broken  bone  back  to  its  right 
shape  is  called  "setting"  the  bone.     This 


too 


is  done,  in  most  instances,  by  streiching  the 
limb,  so  as  to  overcome  the  shortening 
action  of  the  muscles  ;  and  at  the  same  time 
adjusting  the  fragments  by  proper  pressure 
near  the  place  of  fracture.  After  this  has 
been  effected,  as  nearly  as  possible,  some 
means  are  needed  to  hold  the  parts  in  the 
same  position.  For  this,  splints,  bandages, 
adhesive  plasters,  etc.,  are  used.  No  unpro- 
fessional person  should  venture,  if  avoida- 
ble, to  carry  out  the  treatment  of  a  broken 
bone  without  the  aid  and  direction  of  a 
surgeon. 

Joints,  Sprained — Any  of  the  joints 
maybe  wrenched  or  sprained,  without  actuai 
displacement.  This  happens  often  with  the 
ankle,  knee,  wrist,  elbow,  fingers,  etc.  The 
ligaments  are  then  stretched,  and  some  of 
their  fibres  may  be  torn  or  broken.  Hence 
follows  more  or  less  inflammation,  and 
lameness  until  the  ruptured  ligaments  have 
time  to  heal  again.  Since  the  "fibrous 
tissue  ' '  of  which  they  consist  has  only  a 
low  grade  of  vitality,  and  not  much  blood 
is  given  for  nourishment  of  the  joints,  this 
process"  of  repair  in  them  is  slow.  A  sprained 
ankle  or  knee  may  be  longer  in  getting  well 
than  a  broken  leg  would  be.  At  least  this 
is  apt  to  be  the  case  unless  the  sprained 
joint  has  given  to  it  the  best  chance  possible 
from  the  first.  This  is  to  be  had  by  the 
patient  giving  up  to  rest  it  completely  as 
soon  as  it  is  hurt.  This  inflammation  may 
be  averted  or  kept  low,  and  a  moderate 
sprain  may  get  well  in  a  few  days. 

Nail,  Splinter  under. — To  get  out  a 
splinter  which  is  ben«^ath  the  nail,  pare  the 
nail  carefully,  over  the  splinter,  makmg  a 
narrow  groove,  until  its  upper  end  is  ex- 
posed.     Then,  with  a  pair  of  small  nippers 


BANDAGE  AND  SPLINT  ON  LEG 


or  tweezers,  or  less  easily  with  a  thumb  and 
finger,  one  may  seize  and  draw  it  out. 
When  a  nail  is  injured  or  destroyed,  it 
grows  from  above,  that  is  in  the  direction 
of  the  length  of  the  finger  or  toe,  downwards 
324 


&. 

o 

^ 

^ 

N 

^ 

^ 

a 

c^^ 

>.'<i 

s 

<~i 

^ 

c^ 

;s 

^-^ 

?? 

•Vr 

r^- 

O 

t^ 

■>i 

(A' 

a 

^~H 

^ 

o 

•^ 

r 

Wi 

^. 

s 

s 

°2. 

s^ 

c^ 

<\) 

O 

s 

H 

;^ 

O 

1- 

a 

O 

o 

u. 

iti 

<-^ 

St- 

^ 

C!3 

CO 

■^ 

s> 

*x) 

i^. 

-iii. 

O 

'^ 

» 

a 

H 

THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


8i 


or  forwards.  This  can  easily  be  observed 
on  watching  the  change  of  position  of  marks 
made  and  left  by  the  injury,  as  the  nail  is 
gradually  restored. 

Needle  penetration. — A  needle  gives 
almost  no  pain  in  entering  the  flesh  any- 
where ;  and  it  may  slip  about  and  be  pushed 
by  the  muscles  in  various  directions,  so  as 
to  come  near  or  through  the  surface  far 
from  where  it  entered.  If  a  needle  should 
happen,  in  such  wanderings,  to  reach  the 
heart,  it  would  no  doubt  so  affect  its  move- 
ments as  to  cause  death ;  but  that  is  ex- 
tremely unlikely  to  happen.  Still,  nobody 
wishes  to  have  even  so  small  and  smooth  a 
thing  slipping  about  in  his  body.  If  a 
needle,  or  part  of  a  broken  one,  is  known  to 
enter  the  skin,  a  doctor  had  better  be  asked 
to  try  to  get  at  it,  if  it  has  not  already 
passed  beyond  being  reached  by  a  small  in- 
cision. The  same  may  be  said  of  bits  of 
broken  glass.  If  not  seen  and  removed 
when  first  getting  in,  they  may  remain  a 
long  time  without  much  irritation  or  dis- 
turbance. 

Nose,  Foreign  Bodies  in. — Children 
now  and  then  push  peas,  small  marbles, 
etc.,  into  their  own  or  one  another's  noses. 
il  the  intruding  thing  be  not  very  large, 
blowing  the  nose  very  hard,  while  the  other 
nostril  is  closed  by  pressure,  may  force  it 
out.  If  not,  a  piece  of  wire  (a  hairpin  will 
do)  may  be  bent  so  as  to  form  a  small  round 
loop  at  its  end,  and  this  (first  being  oiled) 
may  be  gently  pushed  up  around  and  behind 
the  offending  object,  to  draw  it  down. 
Should  this  not  succeed,  the  aid  of  a  sur- 
geon must  be  obtained,  who  will  use  slender- 
bladed  but  strong  forceps,  made  for  such 
emergencies. 

Swallowing  indigestible  things  gives 
alarm  in  many  cases  where  there  is  little 
danger  of  real  injury.  Pins  are  apt  to 
be  swallowed  when  held  in  the  mouth, 
v^hich  is  a  very  imprudent  thing  to  do  ;  but 
they  will  more  often  stick  across  the  upper 
part  of  the  throat  than  go  down.  (See 
Choking.)  When  a  pin  is  actually  swal- 
lowed, there  is  reason  to  believe  that  it  is 
almost  sure  to  find  its  way  at  last  through 
the  bowels  and  out  with  the  discharges.  If 
a  horn  button,  or  a  piece  of  india-rubber,  or 
a  marble,  is  swallowed,  it  will  be  pretty  sure 


35    R 


325 


to  take  the  same  course  in  time.  None  of 
those  things  are  poisonous.  A  metal  but- 
ton, however,  as  one  of  brass,  or  a  copper 
coin,  as  a  penny,  is  much  worse.  Such  a 
thing  may  pass  safely  through ;  but  if  it 
stays  in  the  stomach  or  bowels,  gradually 
corroding,  it  will  poison  the  system,  per- 
haps, fatally.  From  such  a  result,  no  medi- 
cal skill  can  provide  escape ;  unless,  when 
such  a  thing  is  known  at  the  time  to  have 
been  swallowed,  prompt  dosing  with  an 
emetic  will  bring  it  up  with  vomiting.  A 
teaspoonful  of  powder  of  ipecacuanha,  or  a 
teaspoonful  of  syrup  of  ipecac,  repeated  in 
ten  minutes  if  necessary,  and  followed  by  a 
large  drink  of  warm  (not  hot)  water,  will 
answer  for  this  purpose.  If  no  ipecac,  is  at 
hand,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  or  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  mustard,  in  a  teacupful  of  warm 
water,  will  do. 

It  is  not  worth  while  to  give  an  emetic 
on  account  of  the  swallowing  oi  non-poison- 
ous indigestible  solids.  Nor  is  it  best  to 
give,  on  their  account,  an  immediate  dose 
of  purgative  medicine.  Let  the  person  eat 
rather  heartily  of  soft  food,  as  mush,  pud- 
ding, tapioca,  etc.  ;  and  the  next  day,  if  the 
bowels  are  not  fre^,  he  may  take  a  moderate 
dose  of  castor-oil.  While,  however,  sucb 
things,  in  a  majority  of  cases,  do  no  con- 
siderable harm,  exceptions  to  this  do  occur. 
On  the  whole,  it  is  well  to  use  our  senses  of 
touch,  taste,  and  sight  carefully,  knowing 
what  is  in  the  mouth  always  before  we  swal- 
low it.  Among  other  things,  when  eating 
canned  vegetables,  fruit,  etc.,  take  care  not 
to  swallow  bits  of  soldering  metal,  such  as 
now  and  then  become  ijosened  in  the  can. 
As  these  contain  lead,  they  may  produce 
lead  poisoning.  This  has  been  known  tc 
happen. 

Wounds. — These  may  be  either  Bruised, 
Crushed,  Cut,  Lacerated  (torn) ,  Penetrating. 
or  Poisoned  wounds. 

Bruises  are  familiar  to  everybody.  If 
the  blow  or  fall  has  been  of  such  moderate 
violence  as  to  injure  only  the  surface  of  the 
head,  body,  or  limbs,  it  is  not  a  serious 
matter.  Some  blood  will  be  forced  out  of 
the  small  vessels ;  swelling  and  discolor- 
ation will  follow.  It  will  be  first  red,  then 
almost  black  and  blue,  and  at  last  dull  yel- 
low or  yellowish-brown      This  is  the  history 


82 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


of  a  "black  eye,"  or  of  a  bruise  of  any- 
other  part.  Early  use  of  a  soothing  appli- 
ration  will  do  the  most  good.  There  is 
nothing  better  for  this  than  cocoa  butter,  or 
"  camphor  ice."  Arnica  has  a  reputation 
for  bruises  far  beyond  its  desert.  When  a 
bruised  part  becomes  painful,  a  cloth  wet 
with  lead-water  and  laudanum  will  be  suit- 
able. Later,  bathing  with  soap-liniment 
will  hasten  the  absorption  and  disappear- 
ance of  the  blood-deposit  which  causes  the 
discoloration . 

Crushed  wounds  are  much  more  serious, 
often  endangering  life.     Such,  affecting  the 


KSESSURE  ON 
ARTERY  OP  AKM. 


SPANISH  WINDLASS. 


head,  will  cause  fracture  of  the  skull.  Fall- 
ing on  the  chest,  ribs  may  be  broken  ;  or, 
worse,  the  heart  or  lungs  may  be  so  pressed 
as  to  kill  at  once  or  shortly.  When  a  limb 
is  crushed  in  a  railroad  accident,  it  may  be 
wholly  or  partly  severed  from  the  body. 
We  might  expect  great  bleeding  in  such 
cases ;  but  it  does  not  occur  ;  the  arteries 
are  paralyzed,  and  bleed  little  or  none,  even 
when  torn  across.  The  immediate  danger 
then  is  from  shock,  going  down  into  fatal 
collapse.  When  this  is  recovered  from,  the 
injured  limb  must  be  dealt  with  according 
to  the  methods  of  surgery.     Amputation  is 

R    Pros  - 


often   called   for ;    the    damage  being  too 
great  for  the  limb  to  be  possibly  saved. 

Shock  constitutes  the  greatest  immediate 
danger  in  all  crushing  injuries.  Afterwards, 
there  may  be  inflammation  (or  perhaps 
mortification)  of  internal  organs  involved  ; 
lungs,  liver,  stomach,  kidneys,  peritoneum, 
etc.  Such  cases  will  require  perfect  rest  in 
bed,  with  treatment  which  can  only  be 
judged  of  by  an  experienced  practitioner  of 
medicine  or  surgery.  Tetamis  (lockjaw) 
occasionally  follows  a  crushing  injury. 

Cut  wounds  are  dangerous  at  first 
through  bleeding.  Bruised,  crushed,  and 
torn  wounds  bleed, 
as  a  rule,  very  lit- 
tle. Much  differ- 
ence exists  as  to 
what  is  cut  in  an 
incised  wound.  If 
only  small  vessels, 
the  capillaries,  are 
divided,  the  blood 
flows  steadily,  of  a 
moderately  red 
color,  being  a  mix- 
ture of  arterial  and 
venous  blood.  If 
a  vein  is  cut,  the 
flow  is  steady,  and 
the  color  of  t  h  e 
blood  is  dark-r^di, 
almost  blue-black 
or  dark  purple. 
When  an  artery  has 
been  cut,  bright 
red  blood  comes  out 
in  jets,  timing  with 
the  pulsation  of  the 
heart  in  pumping  blood  through  the  arteries. 
Whatever  the  source  of  a  flow  of  blood 
from  a  cut  wound,  we  should  endeavor 
(after  cleaning  out,  best  with  a  stream  of 
cold  water,  any  foreign  bodies  in  it)  to  stop 
the  hemorrhage  by  putting  and  holding  the 
edges  of  the  wound  together.  Pressure  may 
then  be  added,  so  far  as  needful  and  avail- 
able. Over  a  solid  bone,  as  the  skull,  this 
will  always  be  practicable.  Bleeding  even 
from  a  divided  artery  of  the  scalp  can  al- 
ways be  checked,  by  firm  pressure  on  the 
vessel  against  the  bone.  A  compress  may 
be  made  by  folding  up  a  fragment  of 
26 


PRESSURE  ON  ARTERY  OF 
THIGH 


TtlE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


H 


handkerchief,  or  rag  of  muslin  or  linen,  into 
a  thick  piece  an  inch  square.  Laying  this 
right  over  the  source  of  the  bleeding,  it  may 
be  kept  in  place  by  the  firm  application  of 
a  bandage  around  the  head. 

To  stop  bleeding  from  a  vein,  large 
enough  to  be  seen,  when  pressure  at  the 
wound  will  not  do  it,  the  rule  is  to  press 
iust  below  the  wound  ;  -that  is,  on  the  side 
farthest  from  the  heart;  as  the  blood  flows  in 
the  veins  front  the  extremeties  towards  the 
neart. 

When  an  artery  bleeds,  and  pressure  at 
the  wound  fails  or  cannot  be  applied,  press- 
ure must  be  applied  above  the  wound  ;  that 
is,  on  the  sid<i  nearer  to  the  heart ;  the 
course  of  the  blood  in  the  arteries  being 
from  the  heart. 

Lacerated  wounds  are  those  which  are 
torn ;  as  by  machinery,  or  bites  of  dogs, 
horses,  or  other  beasts,  etc.  They  are  irreg- 
ular in  shape,  seldom  bleed  much,  but  often 
inflame,  sometimes  mortify,  and  hardly  ever 
heal ' '  by  the  first  intention. "  Machinery  in- 
juriesmay  be  dreadful  in  character  ;  a  whole 
limb  being  torn  off  at  once  ;  or  a  hand  or  a 
foot  torn  to  pieces.  Such  may  be  speedily 
fatal  by  shock  ;  or  their  results  may  entail  a 
tedious  and  uncertain  struggle  for  life  ;  at 
least  when  an  arm  or  a  leg  is  badly  lacerated. 
Erysipelas  is  one  of  the  dangers  attending 
such  injuries  ;  tetanus  (lockjaw),  another  ; 
septiccemia  (or  pycemia) ,  another. 

Besides  what  may  be  needful  on  account 
of  the  general  shock  to  the  system ,  lacerated 
wounds  require  to  be  carefully  cleared  of  all 
fragments  of  foreign  bodies,  dirt,  etc.,  and 
then  protected  from  the  air  by  a  proper 
dressing.  To  cleanse  such  a  wound,  a 
stream  of  water  should  be  allowed  to  flow 
over  it  from  a  clean  sponge,  dipped  in  warm 
water  and  squeezed .  above  the  wound. 
Water-dressing  agrees  well  with  such  in- 
juries. Double  a  piece  of  lint  or  soft  linen, 
and  squeeze  it  out  of  clean  tepid  water  or 
clear  lime-water.  I^ay  this  upon  the  wound , 
and  cover  it  with  a  piece  of  oiled  silk,  oiled 
paper,  or  thin  rubber-cloth.  Bandage  it  on 
the  part  with  just  enough  firmness  to  pre- 
vent its  being  displaced.  Such  a  dressing 
will  have  to  be  moistened  at  least  twice  a 
day,  and  had   better  be   changed   once  in 

3 


twenty-four  hours  ;  disturbing  the  wounded 
surface  each  time  as  little  as  possible.  Be- 
fore the  dressing  is  reapplied,  sprinkle  iodo- 
form powder  lightly  over  it.  This  is  anti- 
septic and  promotes  healing. 

Penetrati7ig  wounds  .may  vary  much; 
from  piercing  with  a  pin  to  a  bayonet,  sword, 
or  bullet  wound.  Even  a  needle  or  large 
pin  may  be  forced  into  the  heart,  so  as  to 
cause  death.  Kvery  one  receiving  a  severe 
penetrating  wound,  of  any  part  of  the  body, 
must  be  kept  in  a  condition  of  complete 
rest,  awaiting  results  which  need  to  receive 
the  best  professional  attention,  to  meet  the 
dangers,  seen  and  unseen,  belonging  inevi- 
tably to  such  injuries. 

Poisoned  woviv^di^.  These  are  seldom  met 
with,  even  in  war,  amongst  civilized  nations, 
except  by  unintended  causation.  This  may 
happen  especially  to  physicians  and  sur- 
geons, in  their  operations,  and  to  medical 
students  in  the  dissecting-room.  Matter 
from  dead  bodies,  or  from  diseased  living 
ones,  introduced  even  into  the  slightest 
scratch  with  a  knife,  needle,  or  pin,  may  so 
taint  the  blood  as  to  produce  a  dangerous 
illness.  Not  a  few  physicians  have  suffered 
a  fatal  result  from  pricking  a  finger  in  a 
post-mortem  examination,  "^o prevent  such 
results  (besides  care  to  avoid  letting  an 
abraded  or  punctured  part  come  in  contact 
with  morbid  matters),  as  soon  as  such  a 
thing  has  happened,  the  part  should  be  im- 
mediately washed  and  sucked,  and  then  kept 
out  of  the  way  of  further  danger. 

In  the  treatment  of  poisoned  wounds, 
there  is  nothing  different  from  that  of  those 
which  are  peitetraiing  or  lacerated,  unless 
the  wound  is  made  by  rabid  animals  or  by 
venomous  serpents.  For  either  of  these  last, 
im7nediate  suction  is  a  right  precaution ;  and 
at  the  same  time  a  tight  cord  around  the  arm 
or  leg,  if  either  extremity  has  been  bitten  ; 
then  the  end  of  an  iron  wire  or  rod,  heated 
red  hot,  or  a  piece  of  caustic  potassa,  should 
be  made  to  burn  out  the  part ;  or  a  pinch  of 
gunpowder  may  be  exploded  t»pon  it.  All 
these  severe  measures  are  designed  to  pre- 
vent the  poison  from  getting,  through  the 
blood-vessels,  into  the  system.  Although 
not  more,  probably,  than  one  in  ten  of  those 
bitten  by  mad  dogs  have  hydrophobia,  that 
one  will  incurably  suffer  a  dreadful  death. 
27 


84 


POISONS  AND  THEIR  ANTIDOTES 


Poisons  are  of  several  kinds  :  Animal,  as 
snake-venoms  and  cantharides  ;  Vegetable, 
as  opium,  strychnia,  tobacco  ;  Mineral,  as 
arsenic  and  corrosive  sublimate.  But  a 
more  useful  classification  of  them  is  accord- 
ing to  their  effects :  as  Depressants,  Irri- 
tants, Neurotics,  and  Complex  poisons. 

Depressants  are  prussic  (hydrocyanic) 
acid,  tobacco,  lobelia,  hemlock,  and  aconite. 
It  is  true,  the  effects  of  these,  and  indeed  of 
almost  all  poisons,  have  some  complexity ; 
but  their  chief  effect  is  depression,  sinking, 
prostration  ;  which,  from  a  certain  dose,  is 
fatal. 

Irritants  are  strong  acids,  as  sulphuric, 
nitric,  hydrochloric,  oxalic,  citric,  and  tar- 
taric acids ;  strong  alkalies,  as  potassa, 
soda,  and  ammonia  ;  phosphorus  ;  corrosive 
sublimate  ;   tartar  emetic  ;    salts  of  copper 


ACONITE    ROOT. 

and  of  zinc  ;  castor-oil  seeds  ;  colchicum  ; 
croton-oil ;  cantharides  ;  and  certain  fishes 
and  molluscs  (some  mussels,  etc.). 

Neurotic  poisons  either  produce  stupor, 
as  do  opium,  chloroform,  ether,  chloral, 
hyoscyamus,  and  camphor  (in  excessive 
doses) ;  or  otherwise  damage  the  nervous 


system,  with  ei*"her  delirium,  convulsion %, 
tremor,  or  paralysis,  as  strychnia  (or  nux- 
vomica),  belladonna,  stramonium,  calabat 
bean,  cocculus  Indicus. 

Complex  (Irritant-Neurotic)  poisons  are 
such  as  arsenic,  carbolic  acid,  creosote, 
digitalis,  ergot,  fungi  (toadstools,  etc.), 
hellebore,  iodine,  bromine,  lead,  etc. 

Depressant  poisons  cause  prostration, 
sinking :  with  paleness,  coldness,  feeble 
pulse,  gasping  breath,  with  or  without 
nausea  and  vomiting  ;  all  the  symptoms  of 
collapse. 

Irritant  poisons  produce  burning  and 
pain  in  the  mouth,  .throat,  stomach,  and 
bowels;  with  nausea,  vomiting,  and  purg- 
ing ;  an  artificial  cholera-morbns . 

Neurotic  poisons  have  just  been  de- 
scribed as  causing  either  stupor,  delirium, 
convulsions,  tremor,  or  paralysis.  Complex 
poisons  may  combine  several  of  either  of 
these  kinds  of  effects. 

So  far,  we  have  been  considering  pois- 
ons as  taken  into  the  stomach  by  the  mouth. 
It  must  be  remembered,  however,  that  they 
may  also  enter  the  system  by  being  breathed 
into  the  lungs  ;  injected  under  the  skin  ;  or 
even  absorbed  from  the  surface  of  the  skin 
(especially  with  children;  a  tobacco  leaf 
has  been  so  fatally  used) ;  or  inserted  into 
the  bowels,  etc. 

With  these  general  remarks,  we  may 
now  take  up  those  poisons  most  likely  to 
be  met  with,  or  heard  or  read  about,  alpha- 
betically, for  ease  of  reference  by  the  reader. 

Acids.  As  already  said,  strong  acids  are 
generally  zVr//a«/ poisons.  Hydrocyanic  or 
prussic  acid  is  a  powerful  depressant.  The 
antidotes  for  acids  are  alkalies  and  alkaline 
earths;  as  soda,  limewater,  chalk,  mag- 
nesia, and  soap,  etc.  In  like  manner,  acid*^ 
of  the  milder  sort,  as  vinegar,  lemon-juice, 
etc.,  are  antidotes  for  poisonous  doses  of 
strong  alkalies  or  alkaline  earths,  as  caustic 
potassa,  soda,  ammonia,  or  lime. 

Aconite.  All  parts  of  this  plant  (Monks- 
hood, Aconitiim  napellus)  are  poisonous- 
The  only  form  in  which  any  one  is  likely 
to  take  it  injuriously  is  that  of  the  Tinctun 


328 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


85 


of  aconite  root,  in  overdose  (the  proper  dose 
is  one,  two,  or  three  drops),  or  by  mistake 
for  something  else.  Death  has  been  caused 
in  this  way  :  two  bottles  are  standing  by  a 
patient's  bedside,  one  containing  a  medicine 
to  be  taken  internally,  and  the  other  a  lini- 
ment for  external  application  ;  an  attendant, 
by  mistake,  rubs  a  painful  part  with  the 
medicine,  and  gives  him  a  tablespoonful 
dose  01  the  aconite  liniment. 

Symptoms  :  burning,  tingling,  and  numb- 
ness of  mouth,  throat,  and  stomach,  extend- 
ing afterwards  through  the  whole  body ; 
sickness  of  stomach,  dizziness,  prostration, 
sometimes  convulsions ;  no  delirium,  no 
Stupor,  unless  in  quite  exceptional  cases. 
Death,  from  a  sufficient  quantity,  results  in 
a  few  hours.  L,ess  than  a  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  the  tincture  has  proved  fatal  in  some 
instances ;  a  teaspoonful  will  always  be 
likely  to  do  so,  if  left  long  in  the  stomach. 

Treatment. — There  is  no  chemical  anti- 
dote for  aconite.  Vo?niting  should  be  pro- 
duced at  once  to  get  rid  of  it.  In  the  house- 
hold, do  not  wait  to  send  to  a  druggist,  but 
give  immediately  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 
mixed  in  a  teacupful  of  warm  (not  hot) 
water.  Repeat  this  in  ten  minutes,  with 
large  draughts  of  warm  water,  if  vomiting 
does  not  follow.  If  no  mustard  is  at  hand, 
a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  in  a  teacupful  of 
warm,  not  hot,  water,  will  answer  the  same 
purpose.  Then  mix  powdered  charcoal,  a 
teaspoonful  at  a  time,  in  water,  and  let  it  be 
drunk ;  and  also  very  strong  tea,  freely 
taken,  L,et  the  limbs  be  briskly  rubbed 
with  warm  hands,  and  place  hot  bottles  or 
bricks  alongside  of  the  body  and  to  the  feet. 
If  other  treatment  is  used,  it  should  be  only 
at  the  judgment  of  a  physician,  who  should 
be  summoned  as  soon  as  possible.  This 
remark  will  apply  to  all  cases  of  poi- 
soning ;  and  need  not  therefore  be  hereafter 
repeated. 

Ammonia. — This  is  the  volatile  alkali. 
It  has  the  same  chemical  relations  as  the 
fixed  alkalies,  potassa,  soda,  and  lithia ; 
but  flies  off  into  the  air  when  exposed ,  re- 
quiring, unless  dissolved,  extreme  cold  or 
very  good  pressure  to  condense  it.  It  is 
intensely  pungent  to  the  taste  and  to  the 
breathing  organs,  and  acts  as  an  irritant 
■boison  when  taken  in  large  quantities.  Two 
31  32 


or  three  teaspoonfuls,  at  least,  of  the  stronger 
solution  of  ammonia  will  be  necessary  to 
cause  danger  of  a  fatal  result.  Aromatic 
spirit  of  ammonia  might  have  such  an  effect, 
if  a  tablespoonful  or  two  were  swallowed  at 
once.  Symptoms  of  such  poisoning  are, 
extreme  burning  and  pain  in  the  stomach, 
with  nausea  and  vomiting,  followed  by  col- 
lapse (deathly  prostration),  which  may  end 
fatally  in  a  few  hours.  One  case  has  been 
reported  in  which  this  took  place  in  a  few 
minutes ;  another,  after  three  days.  Its 
being  breathed  freely  hastens  the  effect. 

Treatment  of  poisoning  with  ammonia  is 
like  that  for  other  alkalies.  Give  vinegar 
and  water,  or  lemon-juice,  quickly  and 
largely.  Afterwards,  olive  oil ;  then  milk  ; 
or,  if  no  sweet-oil  is  at  hand,  milk  alone. 
The  vinegar  or  lemon-juice  combines  with 
and  neutralizes  the  alkaline  ammonia.  Oil 
makes  a  soap  with  it,  which  is  innocent. 
Milk  will  then  promote  the  required  sooth- 
ing action,  and  will  also  nourish  and  sup- 
port the  patient. 

Arsenic. — Both  oy  accident  and  through 
suicidal  or  murderous  intent,  this  is  one  of 
the  most  frequently  fatal  poisons.  Symp- 
toms of  arsenical  poisoning  are  complex.  It 
is  an  irritant-neurotic  in  its  action.  About 
an  hour  after  taking  it,  there  are  symptoms 
of  faintness,  heat  of  throat,  thirst,  and  burn- 
ing pain  in  the  stomach.  Violent  retching 
and  vomiting  follow,  and  the  pain  extends 
through  the  bowels,  with  straining  and 
severe  purging ;  sometimes  with  bloody 
passages.  Prostration  soon  results ;  with 
coldness,  small,  frequent  pulse,  and  great 
feeling  of  weakness  ;  not  infrequently  deli- 
rium, convulsions,  or  even  stupor,  will  pre- 
cede death.  In  slower  cases,  headache, 
trembling  and  other  distressing  nervous 
symptoms  are  common.  There  is,  however, 
considerable  variety  in  the  symptoms  of 
poisoning  by  arsenic.  Death  results  in  most 
cases  within  twenty-four  hours  ;  exception  • 
tionally,  but  rarely,  in  an  hour  or  less  ; 
occasionally,  after  weeks,  or  even  months  of 
protracted  suffering. 

Treatment. — If  vomiting  has  not  been 
already  copious,  give  a  teaspoonful  of  mus- 
tard or  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  in  a  teacupful 
of  warm  water  ;  and  follow  this  with  large 
draughts  of  warm  water,  in  which  magnesia 


86 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


has  been  stirred  and  mixed.  Magn.-^sia  is  at 
least  a  partial  antidote  for  preparations  of 
arsenic.  The  most  effectual  antidote  is 
hydrated  pe7'0xide  (sesquioxide)  of  iron  ;  in 
large  doses,  in  the  moist  state,  and  freshly 
made.  This  may  be  prepared  by  putting 
Tincture  of  chloride  of  iroti  in  water  (quan- 
tity not  of  very  great  consequence,  use 
plenty  of  it),  and  then  adding  aqua  ainifio- 
nia  (solution  of  ammonia  or  hartshorn).  A 
thick  powder  will  be  thus  precipitated  ; — 
which,  after  washing  it  with  clean  water, 
may  be  given  in  tablespoonful  doses  as  an 
antidote  for  arsenic. 

Carbolic  Acid.  —  This  is  also  called 
phe7tol.  It  is  to  coal-oil  (petroleum)  what 
creosote  is  to  tar  from  wood.  Symptoms  of 
poisoning  by  either  carbolic  acid,  kerosene, 
or  crude  petroleum,  are  those  of  an  irritant 
narcotic.  First  there  are  burning  of  the 
mouth,  throat,  and  stomach,  pain  in  the 
abdomen,  vomiting;  then  great  prostration, 
faintness,  coldness  ;  lastly,  insensibility  and 
stupor,  ending  in  death.  A  tablespoonful 
of  the  liquid  carbolic  acid  will  be  pretty  sure 
to  cause  death,  in  from  half  an  hour  to  eight 
or  nine  hours.  In  treatment  of  this  form  of 
poisoning,  we  must  first  use  an  emetic  (mus- 
tard, salt,  or  ipecac,  with  plenty  of  warm 
water),  and  then  give  the  patient  large 
draughts  of  sweet  oil.  If  that  is  not  on 
hand,  lime  water  and  milk,  freely  given, 
will  be  likely  to  do  good  by  shielding  the 
coats  of  the  stomach  and  bowels  from  the 
poison. 

Chloral. — Hydrate  of  chloral  is  the  right 
name  of  this  medicine,  which  is  much  used, 
especially  to  promote  sleep.  It  is  very  un- 
certain in  its  action  upon  different  people. 
While  some  are  but  little  affected  by  drachm 
(sixty-grain)  doses,  others  will  be  consider- 
ably narcotized  by  half  as  much.  Twenty 
or  thirty  grains  will  be  an  ordinary  medic- 
inal dose.  Less  than  a  drachm  has  been 
fatal  in  a  few  instances ;  three  drachms 
would  probably  almost  always  kill ;  al- 
though some  persons  have  taken  much 
more  with  impunity.  The  syniptonis  of  the 
poisonous  action  of  chloral  are  merely  those 
of  deep  narcotism  ;  the  victim  cannot  be 
roused,  and  sleeps  away  to  death,  in  a  few 
hours.  Treatment  of  it,  in  the  absence  of  a 
certain  antidote,  consists  in  the  immediate 

3 


use  of  an  emetic,  followed  by  very  strong 
coffee  or  tea  ;  dashing  cold  water  on  the 
face  and  chest ;  if  the  padent  can  walk, 
moving  him  about,  slapping  the  back  and 
limbs  briskly,  etc.,  to  keep  him  awake,  as 
in  opium-poisoning  ;  for  last  resorts,  the 
galvanic  battery  and  artificial  respiration. 
A  physician  may  carefully  try  the  antagon- 
ism which  probably  exists  between  strych- 
7iine  and  chloral. 

Chloroform. — This  liquid  is  much  used 
in  Europe,  but  less  than  ether  in  this  coun- 
try, as  an  anaesthetic,  by  being  breathed  to 
annul  the  pain  of  surgical  operations.  It  is 
more  dangerous,  by  far,  than  ether  or  nitrous 
oxide,  in  this  mode  of  employment ;  and,  of 
course,  it  should  never  be  taken  or  given  in 
this  way  by  an  unprofessional  person. 
Syt7iptoms  of  chloroform  poisoning  are  those 
of  stupor,  from  which  the  patient  cannot  be 
roused.  This  may  be  preceded  by  signs  of 
great  irritation  of  the  stomach  ;  as  chloro- 
form is  very  pungent  and  heating  when 
swallowed.  T-eatme^it  requires  an  emetic  at 
once  (see  Aconite,  Treatment^  ;  and  then,  as 
there  is  no  chemical  antidote,  dashing  cold 
water  on  the  face  and  chest,  and,  if  it  can  be 
obtained,  the  galvanic  battery  ;  as  a  last  re- 
sort, artificial  respiration. 

Copper. — While  this  metal,  when  pure, 
is  not  itself  poisonous,  its  compounds  are; 
and  they  are  produced  by  the  action  on  cop- 
per of  the  fluids  of  the  stomach,  or  by  acids 
and  other  materials  used  in  cooking,  pick- 
ling, etc.  In  this  way  copper  poisoning 
sometimes  occurs,  as  well  as  among  those 
working  in  copper.  Mineral  water  (car- 
bonic acid  water,  soda-water)  dissolves  cop 
per  ;  hence  reservoirs  of  that  metal,  without 
any,  or  with  only  an  imperfect,  lining  of 
something  not  soluble,  ought  not  to  be  used 
for  it.  The  compounds  of  copper  most 
often  acting  poisonously  are,  blue  vitriol 
(bluestone),  the  sulphate  ;  and  verdigris,  the 
subacetate  of  copper.  In  large  amount  taken 
at  once,  either  of  these  will  cause  severe 
vomiting,  pain  in  the  abdomen,  and  purg- 
ing ;  afterwards  headache,  and,  in  fatal 
cases,  convulsions  or  paralj^sis  before  death. 
Sloiv  poisoning  will  result  from  taking  small 
amounts  of  copper  daily,  as  in  cooked  or 
pickled  articles,  for  a  length  of  time.  Symp- 
toms  of  this   are,  a   coppery   taste    in   the 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


87 


moutli,  with  parched  tongue  and  throat ; 
nausea,  i etching,  perhaps  vomiting  ;  pains 
in  the  stomach  and  bowels  ;  diarrhoea,  with 
straining ;  weakness,  with  nervous  restless- 
ness ;  dizziness,  cold  sweats,  cramps,  and 
at  last  convulsions. 

TreaUneoit  for  rapid  copper  poisoning  (as 
it  is'  itself  an  emetic)  should  consist  in  giv- 
ing an  abundance  of  whites  of  eggs  ;  albu- 
men making  a  harmless  compound  with 
copper.  Milk  may  be  given  freely  if  no  eggs 
are  at  hand  ;  its  effect  is  of  the  same  kind. 
For  slow  copper  poisoning,  the  main  thing 
is  to  withdraw  the  cause,  in  whatever  thing 
or  things  it  may  exist.  Then,  a  milk  diet, 
with  moderate  doses  of  an  opiate,  as  pare- 
goric, or  small  doses  of  laudanum,  to 
assuage  the  pain  and  diarrhoea,  will  be  suit- 
able. 

Corrosive  Sublimate. — This,  the  chlo- 
ride of  mercury,  is  a  deadly  poison  ;  three 
or  four  grains  of  it  may  kill  a  man.  Symp- 
toms of  its  action  are,  in  a  marked  degree, 
those  of  the  irritant  poisons;  a  metallic  taste, 
burning  in  the  mouth,  throat,  and  stomach, 
pain  in  the  abdomen,  vomiting,  purging, 
with  straining,  nervous  anxiety,  extreme 
prostration  ;  often  convulsions,  sometimes 
stupor,  before  death.  Commonly,  death 
does  not  result  under  one  or  more  days  ;  but 
examples  are  recorded  of  its  taking  place 
within  an  hour  after  the  poison  had  been 
swallowed.  Treatment  of  corrosive  subli- 
mate poisoning  requires  (as  for  copper)  free 
administration  of  whites  of  eggs  ;  the  more 
the  better,  until  relief  is  obtained ;  or,  if 
eggs  cannot  be  had,  large  and  repeated 
draughts  of  milk. 

Fungi. — Mushrooms  and  Truffles  belong 
to  this  group  of  plants  ;  both  being  largely 
eaten,  and  agreeing  with  most  persons. 
Botanists  inform  us  that  there  are  many 
species  of  innocent  and  nourishing  fungi ; 
but  there  are  some,  also,  that  are  danger- 
ously poisonous.  While,  then,  the  geyieral 
rule  is,  that  those  whose  color  is  not  dark, 
nor  taste  harsh,  nor  odor  disagreeable,  are 
harmless,  experiments  are  not  safe  in  such  a 
matter,  when  made  by  those  ignorant  of  the 
kind  they  have  found.  The  true  eatable 
m,2ishroom,  agaricus  campestris,  grows  on 
open  ground,  has  pijik  "gills"  or.  frilled 
arrangement  Tinderneath  its  crown,  a  small 


"  rufQe  "  also  on  its  stem,  and  a  thin  skin 
on  top,  which  can  be  peeled  off  easily.  The 
assertion  made  by  some  that  even  this  plant 
is  unsafe  until  cooked  does  not  agree  with 
my  experience ;  as  I  have  often  eaten  at 
least  a  small  handful  of  mushroom  plants 
raw,  without  any  injury.  Still,  they  may 
under  some  circumstances  be  less  whole- 
some, and  cooking  improves  their  flavor  as 
well  as  secures  their  innocency.  Symptoms 
of  ' '  toadstool ' '  poisoning  are  those  of  irri- 
tant poisoning  ;  vomiting,  purging,  and  ab- 
dominal pains  ;  with,  also,  dizziness,  partial 
blindness,  delirium,  perhaps  convulsions 
and  stupor,  at  least  in  fatal  cases.  Gener- 
ally, the  symptoms  do  not  show  themselves 
for  a  number  of  hours,  if  the  h^ritant  effects 
are  most  prominent ;  but  stupefying  effects 
have  sometimes  appeared  within  an  hour  or 
two. 

No  antidote  for  fungus-poisoning  having 
been  ascertained  to  exist,  the  proper  treatr 
ment  for  it  is,  the  use  of  mustard,  salt,  or 
ipecac,  as  an  emetic,  followed  by  charcoal 
and  magnesia-water,  and  then  stimulants 
(ammonia,  whiskey,  etc.),  if  required  by 
great  debility ;  lime-water  and  milk  for 
nourishment  (later,  beef-tea,  etc.)  ;  and,  if 
irritation  and  pain  without  stupor  be  pres- 
ent, careful  use  of  moderate  doses  of  some 
opiate,  as  paregoric  or  laudanum,  to  assuage 
distress  and  procure  relief. 

Lead. — While  metallic  lead  is  not  poi- 
sonous, many  of  its  compounds  are  so.  The 
one  most  nearly  inert  is  the  sulphate  of  lead. 
Hence  sulphuric  acid,  and  its  salts,  as  sul- 
phate of  magnesium,  are  antidotes  for  it. 
Sugar  of  lead  (acetate  of  lead)  and  the  sub- 
acetate,  present  in  Goulard's  extract,  which 
are  often  used  to  make  lead  water,  are  some- 
times taken  poisonously  by  mistake.  Vio- 
lent vomiting  and  purging,  with  very  severe 
pains  in  the  abdomen,  followed  by  prostra- 
tion have  been  the  symptoms  in  such  cases; 
death  taking  place  (if  the  quantity  was  very 
large)  in  from  one  to  three  days.  Treatment 
for  such  acute  or  sudden  poisoning  by  lead, 
should  consist  in  the  use,  if  vomiting  is  not 
copious,  of  an  emetic  dose  (twenty  to  thirty 
grains)  of  sulphate  of  zinc,  followed  by 
whites  of  eggs  in  abundance,  milk,  and 
moderate  doses  of  sulphate  of  magnesium 
(Epsom  salts);  with  waimth  applied  to  the 


331 


88 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


body,  and  opiates  (as  paiegoric  or  lauda- 
num) to  relieve  pain  when  the  most  urgent 
symptoms  have  been  overcome. 

Opium. — Sympto7ns  of  any  kind  of  opiate 
poisoning  are :  in  not  very  excessive  dose, 
at  first  a  short  period  of  excitement ;  in  over- 
whelming dose,  this  is  absent  and  the  deep 
stupor  comes  almost  at  once  ;  with  closed 
eyes,  whose  pupils,  if  the  lids  be  raised,  are 
seen  to  be  contracted  ;  pulse  slow  and  full ; 
breathing  snoring  (stertorous)  ;  face  flushed 
and  skin  warm,  until  near  the  end,  when 
pallor  and  coldness  precede  death.  The 
slowness  of  the  breathing  in  bad  cases  is 
very  remarkable.  The  condition  on  the 
whole  bears  a  close  resemblance  to  apoplexy, 
dead  dr2mke?iness,  and  compressio7i  of  the 
brain  from  fracture  of  the  skull.  In  neither 
of  these,  however,  are  the  pupils  contracted 
as  in  opium-poisoning.  Death  usually  fol- 
lows within  from  seven  to  twelve  hours. 

Treatment  of  opium-poisoning  calls  first 
for  an  emetic;  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  or  a  teaspoonful  of 
ipecac,  in  warm  water,  should  be  poured 
down  the  throat  at  once,  if  the  patient  can 
swallow.  When  this  is  not  possible,  a  phy- 
sician will  use  a  stomach-pump.  Also,  cold 
water  should  be  dashed  upon  the  face,  and 
the  patient's  body  may  be  slapped  vigor- 
ously, or,  if  he  can,  he  may  be  made  to 
walk  about ;  anything  to  keep  him  awake,  or 
from  sinking  into  the  fatal  degree  of  lethargy . 
Phosphorus,— This  substance,  a  small 
portion  of  which  is  always  naturally  present 
in  our  brains  and  in  our  bones,  is,  when  in 
the  separate  state,  a  most  destructive  poison. 
It  acts  rapidly  ;  when,  for  example,  ends  of 
lucifer  matches  are  swallowed,  through  mis- 
take or  malice.  It  is  known  also  to  ac; 
slowly,  in  producing  disease  of  the  jaw- 
bones, with  those  engaged  in  making  lucifer 
matches.  Symptoms  of  acute  or  rapid  phos- 
phorus poisoning  usually  begin  to  appear  a 
few  hours  after  it  is  taken.  There  is  a  gar- 
lickly  taste,  with  burning  in  the  throat,  pain 
in  the  stomach,  violent  vomiting,  sometimes 
purging  ;  coldness,  prostration,  and  either 
convulsions  or  stupor  before  death,  which 
may  follow  in  from  one  to  five  or  six  days. 
The  amount  necessary  to  kill  an  adult  is  less 
than  a  grain.  A  child  two  years  old  is  reported  > 
tc  have  died  in  consequence  of  swallowing  ( 

33 


the  ends  of  eight  friction-matches  ;  and  two 
of  these  have  killed  an  infant  two  months 
old. 

Treatmeni  of  phosphorus  poisoning  must 
be  conducted  without  any  known  antidote, 
unless  old  spirit  of  turpenti7ie ,  in  teaspoonful 
doses,  be  such,  as  some  have  asserted. 
First  give  an  emetic  with  plenty  of  warm 
water  ;  then  charcoal  azid  magiiesia-zvater , 
abundantly.  No  oil  (unless  oil  of  turpen- 
tine, as  above  said)  is  to  be  given  after 
phosphorus  poisoning ;  oil  dissolves  and 
difi"uses  it  more  rapidly.  Rice-water,  milk, 
or  flaxseed-tea  will  be  suitable  to  allay  irri- 
tation, in  a  case  which  escapes  death. 

Infancy  and  Childhood. 

Nourishment. — Every  mother  should,  if 
she  can,  nourish  her  own  child,  from  her  own 
breast.  This  is  nature's  law,  as  well  as  the 
law  of  love. 

Some  mothers,  unfortunately,  cannot 
furnish  nourishment  for  their  ofispring. 
Either  they  have  no  milk,  or  very  little,  so 
little  that  a  child  cannot  live  on  it ;  or  they 
are  in  such  feeble  health  that  it  will  risk 
their  lives  to  afford  it  ;  or  indisposition  may 
make  their  milk  unfit,  unsafe  for  nourish- 
ment.    What  then  ? 

The  usual  resort  is  to  the  bottle.  First, 
however,  ascertain  whether  the  mother  has 
not  some  good  milk,  even  though  not  enough. 
If  she  has  half  enough  (as  is  the  case  with 
quite  a  number)  let  her  give  the  babe  the 
benefit  of  this,  if  it  lasts,  until  the  child  hai 
passed  through  the  most  of  its  teething,  or 
at  least  has  weathered  its  first  summer.  Let 
her  nurse  it  two  or  three  times  in  the  day 
and  evening,  and  give  it  (or  have  given  to 
it)  the  bottle  for  the  rest  of  the  time. 

Indeed,  it  is  a  good  plan,  under  all  cir- 
cum»*^;^nces,  for  a  child  six  months  old  to 
learn  to  use  bottle-food,  so  as  to  make  the 
change  more  easy  later,  especially  if  illness 
or  some  other  cause  should  oblige  the 
mother  to  wean  it  suddenly. 

Weaning. — This  never  should  be  sudden, 
if  it  can  be  helped.  If  a  mother  can  nurse 
her  infant  a  full  year,  it  will  be  well ;  if 
eighteen  months,  still  better.  When  she 
has,  up  to  two  years,  half  enough  for  it,  let 
it  get  what  it  can  from  her,  and  eke  out  the 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


85 


rest  with  outside  nourishment.  Never  let  a 
child  be  weaned  in  summer  if  it  can  be  helped. 

Bottle-feeding, — ^The  bottle  is  vastly- 
better  than  the  spoon.  It  imitates  nature 
better  ;  it  allows  the  food  to  go  more  slowly 
into  the  stomach  ;  and  it  gives  the  infant 
desirable  exercise  in  taking  it.  Get  a  glass 
bottle,  holding  about  half  a  pint,  with  a 
rubber  nipple,  but  without  a  tube.  Two 
bottles,  or  at  least  two  nipples,  will  be  well 
to  have,  for  alternate  use  and  thorough 
cleansing  of  both.  For  a  babe  less  than  a 
month  old,  half  a  bottle  at  once  will  do  for 
a  meal.  In  a  few  months,  it  will  readily 
take  nearly  or  quite  a  whole  one,  several 
times  a  day.  A  child  six  months  old  can, 
and  ought  to,  appropriate  three  pints  of  milk 
or  more  in  twenty-four  hours.  Remember 
a  child  has  to  grow  as  well  as  to  live.  When 
too  much  has  been  swallowed,  it  will  often 
(and  had  better)  be  thrown  up.  If  it  be  milk, 
this  is  then  usually  curdled.  Untaught  per- 
sons are  frightened  at  this  ;  but  the  fact  is 
that  milk  is  always  curdled  at  the  begin- 
ning of  digestion.  The  natural  acid  of  the 
stomach  acts  upon  it. 

After  each  time  of  use,  the  bottle  ought 
to  be  scalded  (that  is,  washed  out  with  hot 
water)  ;  in  summer  time,  or  where  the  child 
is  delicate,  an  added  precaution  is  to  add 
soda  to  the  water  with  which  it  is  cleansed. 

flilk. — Cow's  milk  is  almost  the  only 
kind  used  in  this  country  for  infants  ;  here 
and  there,  goat's  milk  may  be  had.  Cow's 
milk  is  stronger  in  ' '  solid  ' '  contents  than 
woman's  milk,  but  the  latter  is  sweeter. 
Commonly,  then,  during  the  first  months, 
a  little  pure  water  is  added  (half,  or  less,  of 
the  amount  of  milk),  and  a  little  white  sugar. 
As  the  child  grows  older,  less  water  is 
needed,  and  within  the  year  often,  none  at 
all.  A  great  mistake  was  formerly  made, 
in  mixing  two  pints  of  water  with  every 
pint  of  milk ;  the  poor  things  sometimes, 
no  doubt,  starved  under  such  a  regimen. 

But,  sometimes,  the  thicker  and  harder 
curds  made  in  the  stomach  with  cow's  milk 
may  be  difficult  for  the  babe  to  digest.  It 
becomes  colicky  and  fretful,  or  it  refuses 
the  bottle.  Then  we  must  add  rather  more 
water,  and  something  else  to  help  to  diffuse 
the  clots,  thus  keeping  them  from  forming 
solid  masses. 


333 


Starchy  materials  will  do  this  pretty 
well.  Such  alone  will  not  nourish  a  child 
fully  ;  arrowroot,  farina,  and  other  starches 
contain  no  nitroge7i,  and  some  of  this  ele- 
ment is  indispensable  for  the  growth  of 
muscles,  bones,  and  brains.  Moreover, 
during  the  first  three  or  four  months  very 
little  saliva  or  pancreatic  juice  is  formed, 
and,  without  these,  starch  is  not  digested. 
But  the  mechanical  qualities  of  starch  fit  it 
for  mixing  up  the  casein  and  albumen  of 
milk  in  the  fluids  of  the  stomach,  and  so 
promoting  its  digestion. 

What  May  be  Used  with  Milk. — 
Simple  articles,  especially  barley,  rice, 
and  oatmeal,  are  commonly  available  for 
this  purpose.  Either  of  them  does  best 
when  ground  (or  beaten  in  a  mortar)  to  a 
fine  powder  for  use.  Barley-v7aX.er  answers 
well  when  the  bowels  are  about  right  (that 
is,  from  two  to  four  -moderate,  natural  pass 
ages  daily)  ;  rice,  when  there  is  diarrhoea ; 
oatmeal,  when  the  child  is  ' '  bound, ' '  or  not 
free  enough  in  the  bowels. 

For  barley-water,  a  teaspoonful  of  barley- 
meal  for  a  two  or  a  three  months'  old  infant, 
two  teaspoonfuls  for  one  over  six  months, 
may  be  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  or  two 
of  cold  water,  and  then  put  into  a  pint  of 
water.  Bring  this  to  the  boiling-point,  and 
boil  it  down  to  half  a  pint.  Strain  it  through 
a  fine  sieve  or  a  clean  linen  cloth,  and  stir 
it  in  with  a  pint  of  milk,  adding  a  little  salt, 
and  an  even  teaspoonful  of  granulated  white 
sugar.  Put  what  is  not  used  at  once,  in  a 
cold  place  (on  ice,  if  it  be  summer  time,  or 
in  the  spring-house  in  the  country)  to  keep 
for  the  next  feeding-time.  Never  give  milk 
twenty-four  hours  old  to  a  young  child, 
under  any  circumstances. 

Rice  and  oatmeal  may  be  prepared  in  the 
same  way,  and  used  according  to  the  state 
of  the  child's  bowels,  when  milk  alone  does 
not  appear  to  digest  well.  Should  neither  of 
these  simple  additions  meet  the  difiiculty, 
you  may  safely  try  some  of  the  "  infants' 
foods."  Mellin's,  Horlick's,  Nestle's,  and 
Imperial  Granum  are,  among  the  best 
These  "foods"  are  not,  like  arrow-root, 
sago,  and  tapioca,  merely  starches.  They 
contain  some  also  of  the  nitrogenous  ma,-= 
terials. 


90 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


It  is  not  necessary,  indeed  it  is  hardly 
desirable,  to  ask  a  dairyman  to  furnish  only 
the  milk  from  one  cow.  You  must  know 
the  cow  very  well  to  be  sure  that  its  milk  is 
the  best.  A  good  dairyvian  is  the  best  de- 
pendence of  all ;  and  there  is  no  harm  in 
mixing  the  milk  of  several  cows,  all  equally 
fresh.  What  ought  not  to  be  done  is  to  mix 
tivo  days'  milks  together.  Thorough  scour- 
ing of  the  pans,  and  keeping  milk  in  a  pure 
atmosphere  (as  well  as  a  cool  one),  are  of 
extreme  importance. 

When  milk  is  served  only  once  a  day  in 
hot  weather,  it  had  better  be  brought  at 
once  to  the  boiling  point — to  make  it  keep 
better, — and  then  set  in  the  coolest  and  clean- 
est part  of  the  house  ;  best  of  all,  put  on  ice. 

A  young  infant,  under  a  year  old,  had 
better  take  all  its  food  war})i ;  unless  in  the 
torrid  heat  of  our  midsummer.  With  the 
thermometer  from  95°  to  98°,  one  does  not, 
young  or  old,  want  anything  warm,  inside 
or  out. 

If  there  be  a  sour  smell  on  the  breath,  or 
sourness  of  the  curds  thrown  up,  or  colicky 
pain  after  feeding,  or  beginning  looseness  of 
the  bowels,  lime-water  should  be  added  to 
the  bottle-food.  A  tablespoonful  to  the 
bottle  will  not  be  too  much.  It  is  always 
harmless,  if  the  bowels  are  not  constipated  ; 
and  it  often  does  a  great  deal  of  good. 
When  very  tough  curds  are  formed  after 
taking  cow's  milk,  a  pinch  of  soda  (bicar- 
bonate) will  help  to  dissolve  them  still  more 
effectually  than  lime-water  or  the  starch 
foods.  But  soda  must  be  used  in  small 
doses,  and  occasionally  only.  Lime-water 
may  be,  if  called  for,  an  every  day  remedy 
for  sourness  of  stomach,  especially  with  a 
disposition  towards  diarrnoea. 

For  thirst,  between  feeding-times,  in 
summer  weather,  the  best  plan  is  to  give 
cold  water  moderately,  and  supply  from 
time  to  time  a  soft  clean  rag  containing 
pounded  ice  for  the  child  to  suck.  When  a 
sick  child  has  fever,  however,  it  may  often 
need  to  drink  a  good  deal  of  water. 

Clothing  for  Infants. 

I,et  the  clothing  of  infants,  from  birth, 
be  warm  enough  and  loose  enough  for  com- 
fort.    No  tight  bands  shofld  ever  be  put  on 


them.  Some  parents,  in  over-anxiety  abont 
cold,  put  on  three  times  as  much  as  is 
needed,  and  then  shut  all  their  chamber  and 
nursery  windows  and  doors,  with  big,  hot 
fires  ;  wondering,  then,  that  their  babies  are 
fretful,  get  skin  diseases  all  over,  and  often 
seem  to  catch  cold  almost  every  time  they 
are  taken  out. 

Babies  resist  actual  cold  less  safely  than 
older  persons  ;  but  j  ust  enough  clothing  is 
always  better  than  too  much  for  them.  And 
they  do  not  need  to  have  the  rooms  they  live 
in  any  warmer  than  we  do — say  68°  to  70° 
Fahr.  usually.  They  are  also  more  hurt  by 
close,  foul  air  than  grown  people  are. 

When  they  are  old  enough  to  wear  short 
clothes,  a  common  mistake  has  been  of  an 
opposite  kind  :  to  leave  their  arms  and  legs 
bare  ;  they  are  so  pretty  thus  !  But  many 
an  attack  of  croup  and  of  inflammation  of 
the  lungs,  sometimes  fatal,  has  followed 
such  exposure  in  a  chilly  atmosphere. 
Children  should  have  no  less  protection  of 
their  limbs  from  cold  than  men  and  women. 
Even  though,  when  healthy  and  active, 
they  do  not  seem  to  feel  it ;    it  is  not  safe. 

Very  important  is  the  chayiging  of  clothes 
with  infants.  When  their  thighs  are  wet, 
and  all  next  to  them  is  soiled,  they  should 
be  changed  at  once,  always.  Neglect  of  this 
may  cause  chafing  of  the  skin,  very  disturb- 
ing to  the  child,  and  sometimes  as  bad  as  a 
burn.  A  soft  sponge  is,  when  the  skin  is 
tender,  better  than  a  rag  or  towel ;  but  a 
sponge  must  be  well  cleansed  every  time, 
with  soap  and  hot  water,  to  be  used  again. 
Dusting  with  a  little  ' '  pat ' '  filled  with  fina 
starch  or  arrow-root  powder  is  very  soc'ih- 
ing  and  protective. 

When  the  skin  has  become  sore  about 
the  thighs,  the  child  will  show  it  by  a  sharp 
cry  on  wetting  itself.  Redness  also,  as 
well  as  tenderness  to  the  touch,  will  be 
found  on  examining  it.  Then  tallow,  cold 
cream  (of  the  apothecary),  or  oxide  of  zinc 
ointme-nt,  should  be  applied  gently  every 
night  and  morning  (or  oftener  if  need  be) 
after  changing  it.  The  worst  cases,  such  as 
come  only  from  considerable  neglect,  may 
need  to  be  treated  like  burns,  with  soft  rags, 
wet  with  lime-water  and  sweet  oil  (equal 
parts,  mixed),  and  covered  with  oiled  silk. 


334 


777^  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


91 


Babie?,  as  well  as  adults,  should  have 
the  head  kept  cool,  and  the  feet  warm. 
Out  of  doors,  a  cap  is  all  right — thick  or 
light  according  to  the  season  ;  but  there  is 
no  need  of  any  cap  being  worn  in  the  house. 
They  are  better  without  it. 

A  frequent  trouble  is  with  the  bed-covers 
at  night.  First,  never  forget  that  covering 
makes  no  warmth  of  itself.  It  only  keeps  (by 
non-conduction)  what  warmth  the  body  has 
of  its  own.  So,  if  a  baby  is  put  cold  into  a 
cold  bed,  especially  if  it  be  sick,  it  may 
scarcely  get  warm  all  night.  In  that  case 
the  bed- clothing  should  be  warmed  first; 
bypassing  a  hot  flat  iron  under  and  over  it ; 
or,  for  an  ill  baby,  keeping  a  warm  brick  or 
bottle  or  tin  of  hot  water  in  the  bed  while 
needed. 

Restless  children  will  often  fling  and 
kick  the  bed- covers  all  off  at  night ;  and 
this  exposes  them  to  taking  cold.  Watch- 
ing them  all  night  is  hard  service.  Much 
better  will  be  the  canton-flannel  night-gown, 
sewn  up  tight  (like  mittens)  at  the  ends  of 
the  hands  and  feet.  If  they  do  throw  every- 
thing else  off,  this  will  keep  them  still  pretty 
warm. 

Must  infants  always  wear  flannels  in  the 
daytime?  Delicate  ones  certainly  should, 
in  our  climate  ;  thick  (though  soft)  flannel 
in  winter,  and  light  flannel  in  summer  time. 
When  an  infant  shows  itself,  at  two  or  three 
years  of  age,  to  be  hardy,  its  summer  flannel 
may  be  left  off  safely.  Silk,  or  merino, 
will  do  for  all  but  weakly  children. 

Bathing. — A  new-born  child  should  be 
bathed  only  in  warm  water,  in  a  warm  room. 
From  95°  to  90°  should  be  the  temperature 
of  its  bath  ;  the  thermometer  had  better  be 
used,  as  the  touch  is  so  uncertain.  As  it 
gets  older,  at  least  if  it  seems  "  hearty,"  the 
water  may  be  allowed  gradually  to  go  down 
to  85°  ;  or,  in  warm  weather,  even  80°. 
The  best  test  of  its  not  being  too  cool,  is, 
the  infant  being  rosy  and  merry  after  the  bath. 
A  child  should  like  its  bath,  if  it  is  rightly 
managed  ;  never  startling  it  with  a  sudden 
plunge,  but  accustoming  it  to  it  by  degrees. 
A  mother  had  better  bathe  her  own  baby,  if 
she  is  well  and  strong  enough  to  do  so. 

One  error  especially  to  be  avoided  is, 
letting  a  child,  once  wet  all  over,  sit  half  in 


335 


and  half  out  of  the  water  ;  being  thus  chilled 
by  evaporation  from  the  uncovered  part  of 
the  body. 

During  our  hottest  weather,  when  the 
thermometer  ranges  between  94°  and  100°, 
even  a  young  infant  may  profit  by  a  cool 
bath,  say  at  75°  or  70°  ;  but  then  it  must 
be  a  short- time  bath  also.  The  cooler,  the 
shorter  the  time  of  immersion. 

Much  soap  does  not  need  to  be  used  in 
bathing  infants.  If  the  child  be  bathed 
daily,  it  needs  (after  its  first  thorough 
cleansing)  only  an  occasional  employment, 
unless  about  the  thighs,  of  a  little  of  the 
best  castile  soap.  Salt  may  be  added  to  the 
bath  if  the  child  is  weakly,  for  its  tonic 
effect.  In  sickness,  warm  or  hot  baths  may 
be  of  great  service. 

Exercise. — After  the  first  few  months,  a 
babe  should  be  allowed  and  encouraged  to 
sprawl;  first  on  a  wide  bed,  being  watched 
that  it  does  not  fall  ofi" ;  afterwards  on  a  car- 
peted floor,  or  a  rug.  This  will  spread  its 
chest,  and  bring  most  of  its  muscles  into 
play.  Thus  it  will  gain  strength,  and  get 
ready,  in  due  time  {don't  hurry  it)  to  stand 
up  and  walk.  Crawling  comes  first,  accord- 
ing to  the  true  nature  of  bodily  develop- 
ment, 

Airing. —  Very  soon  every  baby  ought  to 
begin  to  be  taken  out  in  fine  weather.  In 
summer,  no  matter  how  soon  ;  in  winter,  it 
requires  care  about  keeping  it  warm,  of 
course.  But  quite  young  infants  may  be, 
with  proper  out-of-door  clothing,  accus- 
tomed to  being  taken  out  into  the  sunshine 
and  air  every  fine  day. 

A  nusery  ought  to  be  always  a  sunny  and 
well-aired  room.  As  already  said,  infants 
suffer  more  harm  from  bad  air  than  grown 
people  do.  Scarlet  fever,  measles,  whoop- 
ing-cough, diphtheria,  and  all  other  diseases 
are  commonly  worst,  killing  the  most  child- 
ren, in  tenement-houses  ;  and,  elsewhere,  in 
crowded  alleys,  where  people  live  too  close 
together  and  do  not  have  fresh,  pure  air  to 
breathe. 

51eep  for  Children. 

For  the  first  month  or  two,  an  infant 
naturally  sleeps  more  than  half  its  time. 
All  through  the  first  year,  many  babies 
sleep  from  twelve  to  sixteen  hours  in  the 


92 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


twenty-four.  It  is  a  grand  thing  for  all 
concerned  when  the  little  one  can  be  trained 
early  to  sleep  most  of  the  night.  Habit  may 
be  formed,  in  such  matters,  very  soon. 

Lay  the  child  dozun  to  sleep,  from  the 
start ;  do  not  get  it  used  to  being  carried 
about  to  go  to  sleep  in  somebody's  arms. 
Put  it  to  sleep  in  its  crib,  alone  as  a  rule. 
Hard  to  believe  as  it  seems,  some  weary 
slumbrous  mothers  have  ^i7(?r/(a;2>z  their  babies; 
that  is,  rolled  upon  them  while  asleep  and 
suffocated  them.  Moreover,  the  vapors  from 
another  human  body  make  the  bed  less 
wholesome  for  the  child.  Yet,  with  a  wide 
bed,  convenience  may  sometimes  afford  rea- 
son for  a  child  being  laid  beside,  but  not 
too  near,  its  mother  or  nurse. 

Never  rock  a  child  in  a  cradle.  This 
has,  happily,  quite  gone  out  of  fashion.  If 
it  has  any  effect,  it  is  by  causing  a  kind  of  a 
dizziness  (like  seasickness)  which  cannot  be 
good  for  the  child. 

Let  the  baby  soon  get  used  to  going  to 
sleep  in  the  dark.  Otherwise,  when  it  gets 
older,  it  will  be  afraid  to  do  so,  with  a  fear 
often  very  hard  to  overcome.  Put  no  cur- 
tains about  a  bed,  for  a  child  or  grown 
person. 

Most  babies,  when  they  do  sleep  well 
early  in  the  night,  wake  very  early  in  the 
morning,  and  then  want  food.  Before  noon 
they  are  apt  to  be  ready  to  take  a  nap  of 
two  or  three  hours.  Some  will  also  want 
an  afternoon  nap  of  an  hour  or  two.  Let 
them  sleep  all  they  will  ;  sleep  and  grow 
fat.  Never  wake  a  young  child  (or  in- 
deed an  older  one)  suddenly  ;  it  jars,  their 
brains.  When  their  sleep  is  out  they  will 
wake  up  of  themselves. 

Teething. 

Mothers  and  nurses  ought  to  know 
what  to  look  for  in  their  babies'  mouths, 
as  the  months  follow  each  othc"  in  their  first 
two  years.  Only  twenty  teeth,  be  it  remem- 
bered, come  in  the  first  set,  or,  ''milk 
teeth."  Thirty-two  follow  these,  and  take 
their  place,  in  the  second  set. 

About  the  end  of  the  sixth  month  (from 
the  fifth  to  the  eighth) ,  it  is  common  for  the 
two  loivcr  middle  front  to  appear  through 
the  gum  ;  and  not  long  after,  even  some- 


times before  these,  the  two  upper  middle 
front  ones.  These  are  called  cutting  or 
incisor  teeth.  So  are  the  next  to  come  out 
— alonside  of  the  first — the  lateral  incisors 
(side  cutting  teeth),  below  and  above; 
which  appear  between  the  eighth  and  the 
tenth  months.  Before  the  infant  is  a  year 
old,  then,  it  usually  has  at  least  eight  front 
teeth  out ;  four  below  and  four  above. 

Next,  we  might  expect  those  nearest 
these  to  appear;  but  they  do  not.  Instead 
come  WvQ.  first  jazv  or  molar  teeth — two  below 
and  two  above — between  the  twelfth  and 
the  fourteenth  months. 

Then  follow,  between  the  fourteenth  and 
twentieth  months,  the  stomach  and  eye 
teeth,  as  people  call  them  ;  the  four  canine 
teeth,  two  below  and  two  above  ;  pointed 
teeth. 

After  these,  and  last  of  the  first  set,  come 
the  second  faiv  or  molar  teeth;  two  below  and 
two  above ;  between  the  eighteenth  and 
the  thirty-sixth  months.  In  each  jaw,  in 
all,  there  are  then  four  incisors,  two  canines, 
and  four  molar  teeth ;  doubling  these,  we 
get  the  twenty  of  the  whole  set.  The  fol- 
lowing diagram  shows  this,  with  the  order 
of  their  succession : 


5       3421 
M      M     C     I     I 

I 
I 

243 
I     C     M 

5 
M 

M     M      C     I     I 

I 

I      C     M 

M 

53421 

I 

243 

5 

I  stands  for  incisor; 
molar. 

C 

for  cayiine  ; 

M 

336 


for 


This  order  is  the  general  mode  of  suc- 
cession ;  but  variations  from  it  are  far  from 
rare.  Often  the  upper  teeth,  front  and  all, 
come  before  the  lower  ones.  The  time  for 
each  group  of  teeth  is  frequently  later,  and 
sometimes  earlier,  than  that  above  men- 
tioned. 

As  the  time  conies  near  (^ about  the  sixth 
or  seventh  year)  for  the  second  dentition 
the  new  set,  whose  germs  were  in  the  jaws 
at  birth,  grow  steadily  larger  in  the  gums. 
The  milk  teeth  are  not  forced  out ;  but, 
under  the  wonderful  natural  adaptation  of 
parts,  their  fangs  are  gradually  absorbed, 
and  thus  they  loosen  and  drop  out,  or  are 
easily  taken  out,  and  make  way  for  the 
second  set  of  permanent  teeth.     These  are 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


91 


thirty- two  in  numbef.  The  first  to  come 
through  the  gums  are  the  first  molar  or  jaw 
teeth.  Next,  at  about  seven  years  of  age, 
the  middle  incisors  ;  then  the  lateral  incis- 
ors, at  or  near  the  end  of  the  eighth  year. 
A-fter  these,  the  first  pre-molars  (bicuspids) 
or  lesser  jaw  teeth  ;  and  in  the  ninth  year, 
the  second  pre-molars.  Between  eleven  and 
twelve  years,  the  permanent  canines,  two 
above  and  two  below.  From  twelve  to  thir- 
teen or  fourteen  years,  the  second  molars ; 
and  from  seventeen  to  twenty- one  years,  the 
last  molars,  or  wisdom  teeth.  These  last  are 
often  imperfect  from  the  start. 

Dentition  is  a  process  oi growth.  A  great 
deal  of  blood  is  needed  in  the  tissues  of  the 
jaws  for  this  purpose.  Moreover,  for  the 
teeth  to  "come  out,"  the  gums  must  give 
way,  by  absorption.  Should  this  be  slow, 
a  tension  of  the  gum  may  occur;  and, 
through  the  nerves,  the  whole  system  may 
be  brought  into  sympathetic  excitement.  As 
the  nervous  apparatus  is  much  more  irrita- 
ble, more  easily  disturbed,  in  babyhood  than 
in  adult  life — we  often  have,  from  this  cause, 
worrying ;  fretfulness ;  sometimes  fits,  or 
convulsions.  A  child  which  was  "  always 
good"  before,  now  may  cry  a  great  deal, 
losing  its  reputation  for  goodness  altogether. 

Why  Babies  Cry. 

A  word  here  about  babies'  crying.  A 
healthy  child,  not  teething,  if  well  take7i  care 
off  will  very  seldom  cry.  If  it  becomes  very 
hungry,  and  is  not  nourished,  or  is  cold,  or 
too  warm,  or  is  left  with  garments  soiled 
and  wet,  of  cozirse  it  cries.  And,  the  habit 
once  formed,  cry  it  will,  though  the  whole 
household  and  neighborhood  regard  it  as  a 
"  crying  evil." 

Several  sorts  of  crying  may  be  observed, 
which  it  is  desirable  to  understand.  First 
there  is  the  cry  of  surprise,  on  the  child 
being  first  ushered  into  the  world.  That  is 
all  right  and  natural. 

Next,  comes  the  calling  cry,  of  hunger, 
thirst,  or  other  want.  Sharper  and  shriller, 
sometimes  a  violent  scream,  is  the  cry  of 
pain  ;  as  of  colic  or  earache  ;  or  of  fright,  as 
when  a  babe  rolls  out  of  its  bed  or  crib  upon 
the  floor.  Much  like  the  cry  of  simple 
want,  but  habitually  harsher  in  manner,  is 
that  of  demand   or   comm.and,   of    a  child 


337 


already  spoiled  ;  finding  that  whatever  it  cries 
for  it  will  get.  An  aggravation  only  of  this, 
is  the  (sometimes  fairly  impish)  roar  and 
succession  of  screams,  of  temper  Q.n&  passion 
Disease  has  various  cries  ;  according  to  its 
character.  Sometimes  it  is  only  a  faint 
moan,  attending  nearly  every  breath.  Other 
times  it  is  hoarse,  as  in  croup  ;  along  with  a 
short,  barking  cough.  Or  it  may  be  the 
wild  scream  of  inflammation  of  the  brain. 

What  Teething  Is. 

Teething  is  not  a  disease,  a  morbid  pro- 
cess, at  all.  But  it  is  an  important  change, 
which  for  the  time  renders  the  child  more 
than  before  or  after  liable  to  disorders, 
under  any  disturbing  causes  ;  and  the  pro- 
cess of  penetration  of  the  gums  by  the  young 
teeth  may  sometimes  itself  be  imperfectly 
accomplished.  The  most  common  and  least 
alarming  effect  of  the  ' '  sympathetic  irrita- 
tion "  of  teething  is  diarrhoea.  This  seems 
often  to  give  a  safe  vent  and  relief  to  the 
disturbance  of  the  system.  Three  or  four, 
or  even  flve  passages  from  the  bowels  daily, 
at  such  times,  are  not  objectionable ;  are 
much  better  than  constipation.  Convulsions 
are  frightful  to  behold,  and  attended  by 
danger. 

Here,  however,  it  may  be  suitable  to 
refer  briefly  to  lancing  the  gums.  Healthy 
babies  may  often  pass  through  their  teething 
without  needing  to  have  their  gums  lanced. 
But  some  may  be,  by  this  simple  and  harm- 
less means,  kept  from  having  convulsions, 
which,  if  brought  on,  may  threaten  their 
lives.  Use  a  clean,  sharp  lancet,  and  divide 
the  gum  with  a  straight,  firm  cut ;  in  the 
direction  of  the  edge  if  it  be  an  incisor,  and 
across  the  crown  if  a  molar  tooth  ;  and 
then  there  will  never  be  any  ' '  scars  ' '  or 
other  trouble. 

It  is  well  to  lance  the  gums  whenever 
they  are  much  swollen,  red,  painful,  and 
worrying,  to  the  child,  making  it  nervous 
and  hard  to  get  to  sleep  ;  or  when,  even 
though  not  swollen,  the  tooth  is  evidently 
not  far  within  the  gum,  which  seems  tense, 
and  a  source  of  irritation,  calling  for  relief. 
Many  a  child,  once  helped  by  this  measure, 
will  ask  for  it,  with  looks  if  it  has  no  words, 
to  have  it  repeated. 


94 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


A  lesser,  but  not  tiilimportant  means  of 
relief  for  worriment  of  the  mouth  during 
teething,  is  the  use  of  rubber  rings,  bits  of 
ivory,  etc.,  smooth  and  firm,  but  too  large 
to  swallow,  for  the  child  to  bite  upon. 
When  there  is  much  heat  of  the  mouth,  a 
soft  rag  filled  with  pounded  ice  will,  in  sum- 
mer time,  do  the  most  good. 

At  no  time  is  it  more  needful  than  dur- 
ing dentition,  to  be  very  careful  about  the 
food  which  the  child  takes.  Indigestion  is 
a  very  common  exciting  c?use  of  convul- 
sions. 

Summer  Dangers. 

In  our  American  cities,  hot  weather  kills 
more  young  children  than  any  other  cause. 
Look  at  the  weekly  record  of  deaths  in  New 
York  or  Philadelphia,  and  you  will  find  that 
every  degree  of  noon  temperature  above  95° 
costs  scores  if  not  hundreds  of  little  lives .  In 
those  cities,  about  one-half  of  the  deaths  of 
children  in  the  first  year  of  life,  and  nearly 
one-third  of  those  in  the  second  year,  take 
place  in  June,  July,  and  August. 

High  heat,  crowding,  filth,  and  unsuitable 
food,  conspire  against  children  in  the  sum- 
mer homes  of  the  city  poor.  But  the  rich 
may  suffer  also,  from  excessive  heat,  town  ai?', 
and  itnpi-oper  diet,  for  their  children  ;  and 
these  causes  produce  many  cases  of  stimmer 
coTuplaint,  or  "  cholera  infantum." 

Whoever,  of  our  city  families,  can  take 
their  infants  out  into  the  country,  during 
their  first,  second  and  third  summers,  for 
the  months  of  June,  July,  August,  and  Sep- 
tember, ought  to  do  it.  With  those  who 
cannot,  the  next  best  thing  is  to  take  or 
send  them  out  on  frequent  excursions,  on 
land  or  water,  and  to  have  them  often  in  the 
open  parks  or  squares  ;  for  as  much  pure, 
cool  air  as  they  can  get.  It  is  the  best  pre- 
ventive, and  often  the  best  curative,  of  sum- 
mer complaint. 

For  those  who  are  obliged  to  live  in  the 
crowded  parts  of  towns  or  villages,  the  rules 
given  by  the  Obstetrical  Society  of  Philadel- 
phia "  for  the  management  of  infants  during 
the  hot  season  "  have  proved  serviceable.  I 
will  quote  them  here,  in  addition  to  what 
has  been  already  said  on  our  previous  pages 
on  the  same  subjects. 


338 


Rules  for  Management  of 
Infants. 

Rule  I . — Bathe  the  child  once  a  day  in 
tepid  water.  If  it  is  feeble,  sponge  it  all 
over  once  a  day  with  tepid  water,  or  with 
tepid  water  and  vinegar.  The  health  of  a 
child  depends  much  upon  its  cleanliness. 

Ride  2.  —  Avoid  all  tight  bandaging. 
Make  the  clothing  light  and  cool,  and  so 
loose  that  the  child  may  have  free  play  for 
its  limbs.  At  night,  undress  it,  sponge  it, 
and  put  on  a  slip.  In  the  morning  remove 
the  slip  and  dress  the  child  in  clean  clothes. 
If  this  cannot  be  afforded,  thoroughly  air 
the  day  clothing  by  hanging  it  up  during 
the  night.  Use  clean  diapers,  and  change 
them  often.  Never  dry  a  soiled  one  in  the 
nursery  or  in  the  sitting-room,  and  never 
use  one  for  a  second  time  without  first  wash- 
ing it. 

Rule  J . — The  child  should  sleep  by  itself 
in  a  cot  or  cradle.  It  should  be  put  to  bed 
at  regular  hours,  and  be  early  taught  to  go 
to  sleep  without  being  nursed  in  the  arms. 
Without  the  advice  of  a  physician,  never 
give  it  any  spi?'its,  cordials,  carnmiatives , 
soothing- syrups,  or  sleeping-drops .  Thousatids 
of  children  die  every  year  from  the  use  of  these 
poisons.  If  the  child  frets  and  does  not 
sleep,  it  is  either  hungry  or  ill.  If  ill,  it 
needs  a  physician.  Never  quiet  it  by  candy 
or  cake ;  they  are  the  common  causes  ot 
diarrhoea  and  other  troubles. 

Rule  4. — Give  the  child  plenty  of  fresh 
air.  In  the  cool  of  the  morning  and  even- 
ing send  it  out  to  the  shady  sides  of  broad 
streets,  to  the  public  squares,  or  to  the  park. 
Make  frequent  excursions  on  the  rivers. 
Whenever  it  seems  to  suffer  from  the  heat, 
let  it  drink  freely  of  ice-water.  Keep  it  out 
of  the  room  in  which  washing  or  cooking  is 
going  on.  It  is  excessive  heat  that  destroys 
the  lives  of  young  infants. 

Rule  5. — Keep  your  house  sweet  and 
clean,  cool  and  well  aired.  In  very  hot 
weather  let  the  windows  be  open  day  and 
night.  Do  your  cooking  in  the  yard,  in  a 
shed,  in  the  garret,  or  in  an  upper  room. 
Whitewash  the  walls  every  spring,  and  see 
that  the  cellar  is  clear  of  all  rubbish.  lyCt 
no  slops  collect  to  poison  the  air.  Correct 
all  fou.  smells  by  pouring  carbolic  acid  or 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


95 


qtiicklime  into  the  sinks  and  privies.  The 
former  articles  can  be  got  from  the  nearest 
druggist,  who  will  give  the  needful  direc- 
tions for  its  use.  Make  every  effort  your- 
self, and  urge  your  neighbors,  to  keep  the 
gutters  of  your  street  or  court  clean. 

Rules  for  Diet  of  Infants. 

Rule  6. — Breast  milk  is  the  only  proper 
food  for  infants.  If  the  supply  is  ample, 
and  the  child  thrives  on  it,  no  other  kind  of 
food  should  be  given  while  the  hot  weather 
lasts.  If  the  mother  has  not  enough,  she 
must  not  wean  the  child,  but  give  it,  besides 
the  breast,  goat's  or  cow's  milk,  as  prepared 
under  Rule  8.  Nurse  the  child  once  in 
two  or  three  hours  during  the  day,  and  as 
seldom  as  possible  during  the  night.  Always 
remove  the  child  from  the  breast  as  soon  as 
it  has  fallen  asleep .  Avoid  giving  the  breast 
when  you  are  over- fatigued  or  overheated. 

Rule  7. — If,  tmfortunately,  the  child 
must  be  brought  tip  by  hand,  it  should  be 
fed  on  a  milk-diet  alone,  and  that,  warm 
milk  out  of  a  nursing- bottle,  as  directed 
under  Rule  8.  Goat's  milk  is  the  best,  and 
next  to  it,  cow's  milk.  If  the  child  thrives 
on  this  diet,  no  other  kind  of  food  whatever 
should  be  given  while  the  hot  weather  lasts. 
At  all  seasons  of  the  year,  but  especially 
in  summer,  there  is  no  safe  substitute  for 
milk  to  an  infant  that  has  not  cut  its  front 
teeth.  Sago,  arrow-root, potatoes ,  corn-flour, 
crackers,  bread,  every  patented  food,  a7id  every 
article  of  diet  containing  starch,  cannot  and 
must  not  be  depended  on  as  food  for  very 
young  infants.  Creeping  or  walking  chil- 
dren must  not  be  allowed  to  pick  up  un- 
wholesome food. 

Rule  8. — Kach  bottleful  of  milk  should 
be  sweetened  by  a  small  lump  of  loaf-sugar, 
or  by  half  a  teaspoonful  of  crushed  sugar. 
If  the  milk  is  known  to  be  pure,  it  may  have 
one-fourth  part  of  hot  water  added  to  it ; 
but,  if  it  is  not  known  to  be  pure,  no  water 
need  be  added.  When  the  heat  of  the 
weather  is  great,  the  milk  may  be  given 
quite  cold.  Be  sure  that  the  milk  is  un- 
skimmed ;  have  it  as  fresh  as  possible,  and 
brought  very  early  in  the  morning;  Before 
using  the  pans  into  which  it  is  to  be  poured, 
always  scald  them  with  boiling  suds.  In 
very  hot  weather,  boil  the  milk  as  soon  as 


it  comes,  and  at  once  put  away  the  vessels 
holding  it  in  the  coolest  place  in  the  house 
— upon  ice  if  it  can  be  afforded,  or  down  a 
well.  Milk  carelessly  allowed  to  stand  in  a 
warm  room  soon  spoils,  and  becomes  unfit 
for  food. 

Rule  9. — If  the  milk  should  disagree,  a 
tablespoonful  of  lime-water  may  be  added  to 
each  bottleful.  Whenever  pure  milk  cannot 
be  got,  try  the  condensed  milk,  which  often 
answers  admirably.  It  is  sold  by  all  the- 
leading  druggists  and  grocers,  and  may  be 
prepared  by  adding,  without  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful,  or  more,  according  to  the  age  of 
the  child,  to  six  tablespo5nfuls  of  boiling 
water.  Should  this  disagree,  a  teaspoonful 
of  arrow-root,  of  sago,  or  of  corn-starch  to 
the  pint  of  milk  may  be  cautiously  tried. 
If  milk  in  any  shape  cannot  be  digested, 
try,  for  a  few  days,  pure  cream  diluted  with 
three-fourths  or  three-fifths  of  water — re- 
turning to  the  miik  as  soon  as  possible. 

Weaning  the  Infant. 

Rule  10. — The  nursing-bottle  must  be 
kept  perfectly  clean ;  otherwise  the  milk 
will  turn  sour,  and  the  child  will  be  made 
ill.  After  each  meal  it  should  be  emptied, 
rinsed  out,  taken  apart,  and  the  tube,  cork, 
nipple,  and  bottle  be  placed  in  clean  water, 
or  in  water  to  which  a  little  soda  has  been 
added.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  have  two  nurs- 
ing-bottles, and  to  use  them  by  turns. 

Rule  II. — Do  not  wean  the  child  just 
before  or  during  the  hot  weather,  nor,  as  a 
rule,  until  after  its  second  summer.  If 
suckling  disagrees  with  the  mother,  she 
must  not  wean  the  child,  but  feed  it  in  part 
out  of  a  nursing-bottle,  on  such  food  as  has 
been  directed.  However  small  the  supply 
of  breast-milk,  provided  it  agrees  with  the 
child,  the  mother  should  carefully  keep  it 
up  against  sickness  :  it  alone  will  often  save 
the  life  of  a  child  when  everything  else  fails. 
When  the  child  is  over  six  months  old,  the 
mother  may  save  her  strength  by  giving  it 
one  or  two  meals  a  day  of  stale  bread  and 
milk,  which  should  be  pressed  through  a 
sieve  and  put  into  a  nursing-bottle.  When 
from  eight  months  to  a  year  old,  it  may  have 
also  one  meal  a  day  of  the  yolk  of  a  fresh 
and  rare-boiled  ^%z->  or  one  of  beef-  or  mut- 
'  ton-broth  into  which  stale  bread  has  been 


339 


96 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


crumbled.  When  older  than  this,  it  can 
have  a  little  meat  finely  minced  ;  but  even 
then  milk  should  be  its  principal  food,  and 
not  such  food  as  grown  people  eat. 

When  an  infant's  bowels  do  not  act,  at 
least  once  or  twice,  freely,  every  day,  sweet 
(olive)  oil  may  be  given,  a  teaspoonful  at 
once ;  or  manna,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspooful 
at  a  time  (it  'S  sweet  and  easily  taken)  ;  or 
simple  syrup.'  of  rhubarb,  a   teaspoonful  at 


once;  ot glycerine,  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time.. 
If  the  stomach  is  sick  at  the  same  time, 
magnesia  may  do  more  good,  a  quarter  or 
half  a  teaspoonful,  according  to  the  age  of 
the  child,  stirred  well  up  in  a  little  water. 
If  colic  is  present,  castor  oil,  a  teaspoonful 
mixed  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  spiced  syrup 
of  rhubarb  wil  be  the  best  thing  to  open  the 
bowels. 


THE  LAWS  OF  HYGIENE 


How  to  Keep  Well. 

In  the  pages  over  which  we  have  passed, 
our  effort  has  been,  as  the  reader  will  per- 
ceive, to  describe  the  various  ailments  with 
which  man  is  afflicted  and  the  accidents  or 
injuries  to  which  he  is  liable;  also,  the 
remedies  to  be  applied  or  the  methods  to  be 
adopted  in  the  treatment  of  the  sick  or  the 
injured.  This,  while  a  great  part  of  the 
story,  is  not  the  whole  story.  There  is  a 
further  very  important  phase  of  the  subject. 
It  is  one  thing  to  know  how  to  get  well ;  it 
is  another  to  know  how  to  keep  well.  There 
is  a  science  of  health  as  well  as  a  science  of 
sickness.  The  former  we  call  hygiene. 
This  deals  with  the  rules  to  be  observed  to 
enable  us  to  avoid  ill-health.  These  are  of 
the  highest  importance,  and  it  is  incumbent 
upon  us  here  to  give  the  leading  laws  and 
principles  of  hygiene  science. 

The  world  we  dwell  in  is  full  of  the 
seeds  of  disease.  They  come  to  us  in  the 
food  we  eat,  the  water  we  drink,  the  air  we 
breathe.  We  cannot  stir  abroad  or  confine 
ourselves  at  home  without  exposing  our- 
selves to  some  unwholesome  condition.  The 
germs  of  disease  lurk  everywhere.  We  may 
escape  them  in  part,  but  cannot  altogether. 
But  what  effect  they  will  have  upon  us  de- 
pends largely  upon  ourselves.  A  sound, 
vigorous  constitution  and  healthy  normal 
condition  of  the  organs  of  the  body,  enable 
us  to  expose  ourselves,  with  impunity  to 
conditions  which  might  prove  fatal  to  those 
of  feeble  powers  of  resistance  or  weakness 
in  some  of  the  vital  organs.  Therefore,  in 
addition  to  care  in  avoiding  exposure  to  in- 
jurious influences,  it  is  very  important  to 


340 


strengthen  our  powers  of  resistance  by  a 
reasonable  amount  of  exercise,  the  breath- 
ing of  fresh  air,  attention  to  suitable  cloth- 
ing, heedfulness  of  any  organic  weakness, 
and  everything  adapted  to  give  us  strength 
and  powers  of  endurance. 

Impure  Air. 

The  air  which  v/e  breathe  is  rarely  quite 
pure,  and  is  often  very  impure.  This  is 
especially  the  case  in  city  life  and  within 
our  houses.  Pure  air  is  only  to  be  found  in 
the  open  country,  the  mountains,  or  at  the 
sea-side.  In  addition  to  its  normal  oxygen 
and  nitrogen,  many  other  gases  make  their 
way  into  it,  some  of  them,  being  very  un- 
heal thful.  There  are  also  solid  particles  of 
' '  dust, "  of  a  great  variety  of  materials, 
animal,  vegetable,  or  mineral,  many  of 
them  more  or  less  harmful.  The  worst  of 
them  are  the  floating  bacteria,  living  germs 
of  disease,  which  inhabit  air  and  water 
alike  ;  the  great  majority  of  these  are  harm- 
less, some  of  them  are  deadly  in  their  effects. 

Of  the  impure  gases  in  the  air,  some  of 
the  worst  are  of  our  own  production.  We 
are  constantly  breathing  out  matter  which 
is  poisonous  to  the  system  if  breathed  in 
again.  This  is  largely  carbon  dioxide  (or 
carbonic  acid  gas),  with  small  quantities  of 
organic  poisons,  the   waste  of  the   system. 

We  can  easily  understand  how  it  is  thai 
pure  air  becomes  poisoned  by  respiration, 
the  specially  dangerous  products  being  the 
carbon  dioxide  and  the  organic  matters.  The 
total  amount  of  carbon  dioxide  breathed, 
out  in  an  hour  is  about  6  cubic  feet.  While 
this  is  an  injurious  gas,  it  is  probable  that 


EXERCISES   FOR   DEVELOPING   GRACEFUL   POSES. 
I.  Forward  drop  in  a  narrow  doorway.    2.  Breathing  exercises  com- 
bined with  arm  movements.    3.  Arm  exercises.     4.  Bending  to  the  side. 
5.  Bending  backward.    6.  Bending  forward. 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


97 


the  bad  effects  of  breathing  respired  air  are 
more  due  to  the  poisonous  organic  matter, 
as  it  is  found  that  while  an  artificial  atmos- 
phere containing    i  part  of  carbon  dioxide 


MISPLACED   PIPE. 


in  ICO  of  air  causes  but  little  discom- 
fort when  breathed,  yet  if  an  already 
respired  air  containing  only  i  part  of  carbon 
dioxide  in  i,ooo  of  air  is  breathed  much 
discomfort  is  experienced .  This  organic  poi- 
son is  probably  composed  partly  of  an  or- 
ganic vapor  from  the  lungs,  and  partly  of  solid 
matter  from  the  lining  of  the  mouth  aud  air 
passages.  It  is  difficult  to  find  out  the 
exact  quantity  of  organic  matter  present, 
but  it  varies  exactly  in  proportion  to  the 
quantity  of  carbon  dioxide,  and  the  amount 
of  this  in  respired  air  is  therefore  taken  as 
the  standard  of  impurity. 

The  Air  from  Sewage  and  Sewers. — 
This  is  found  to  contain  a  great  diminution 
of  the  oxygen,  a  large  increase  of  the  carbon 
dioxide,  and  many  other  gases,  such  as  sul- 
phureted  hydrogen,  sulphide  of  ammonium, 
marsh-gas,  etc.  A  more  harmful  constitu- 
ent is  found  In  the  numerous  germs  present, 
which  are  probably  thrown  into  the  air  of 
the  sewer  by  the  bursting  of  bubbles  on  the 
surface  of  the  putrefying  sewage. 

The  air  from  churchyards  contains  car- 
bon dioxide  in  excessive  amount,  various 
vapors  of  ammonia,  offensive  and  putrid 
gases,  and  many  germs. 

Air  polluted  by  Trades. — These  impuri- 
ties depend,  of  course,  on  the  nature  of  the 
trade.  We  may  have  hydrochloric  acid, 
sulphur  dioxide,  sulphurous  acid,  ammonia, 
and  sulphureted  hydrogen  from  chemical 
.    3*^  K  34 


works  ;  carbon  dioxide  and  monoxide  and 
sulphureted  hydrogen  from  brickfields ; 
nauseous  organic  vapors  from  glue  refin- 
ing, bone  burning,  fat  boiling,  candle 
making,  and  slaughter  houses  ;  and  various 
vegetable  and  mineral  impurities  from  near 
works  where  cotton,  linen,  flint,  or  iron 
particles  are  thrown  into  the  atmosphere. 
Nor  must  we  forget  the  air  of  workrooms 
polluted  by  various  products  of  manufac- 
ture, such  as  lead,  phosphorous,  flax,  etc. 

The  air  of  towns  must  necessarily  be 
very  impure,  owing  to  the  presence  of  the 
injurious  products  given  off  by  combustion, 
respiration,  sewers,  and  trades  ;  we  find  a 
lessened  amount  of  oxygen,  an  increased 
amount  of  carbon  dioxide,  and  a  fairly  large 
amount  of  solid  matter,  both  inorganic  and 
organic.  It  is  also  found  that  it  is  especi- 
ally in  the  narrow  streets  of  crowded  parts 
of  the  town  that  the  atmosphare  is  particu- 
larly foul.  In  the  open  spaces  and  wide 
streets  the  impurities  are  not  nearly  so 
great. 

In  close  rooms  the  air  is  made  impure 
by  products  of  combustion  (as  from  the 
burning  of  gas)  and  by  respiration  ;  the  im- 
purities thus  caused  may  be  very  great, 
even  to  the  extent  of  3  parts  of  carbon  diox- 
ide in  1 ,000  of  air.  In  a  room  in  Leicester, 
containing  six  persons,  with  only  51  cubic 
feet  of  air  space  each,  and  with  three  gas- 
lights burning,  the  amount  of  carbon  dioxide 
was  found  to  be  over  5  parts  per  i  ,000  of  air. 

Diseases  Due  to  Impure  Air. 

Respiration. — The  effect  upon  most  peo' 
pie  of  breathing  over-iespired  air  is  to  cause 
heaviness,  sleepiness,  headache,  giddiness, 
fainting,  and  sometimes  vomiting.  When 
the  air  is  still  more  impure  death  may  re- 
sult, as  in  the  case  of  the  146  prisoners  kept 
in  the  Black  Hole  of  Calcutta,  for  a  single 
night,  of  whom  123  died;  and  also  when 
150  passengers  were  shut  up  on  a  very 
stormy  night  in  a  small  cabin  of  the  steamer 
Londonderry,  of  whom  seventy  died  before 
morning.  The  breathing  of  impure  air  day 
after  day  causes  people  to  become  pale,  lose 
their  spirits,  strength  and  appetite,  and,  as  a 
result,  they  easily  contract  any  infectious 
disease   which  is  in  the  district:  and  this 


98 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


A  GOOD  VENTILATOR  FOR  A  ROOM. 


remark  especially  applies  to  consumption, 
which  is  particularly  common  in  communi- 
ties, who  live  in  bad  impure  air,  and  the  fre- 

quency  of 
which  tends 
to  diminish  in 
proportion  as 
the  air  habi- 
tually breath- 
e  d  is  i  m  - 
proved. 

Com  bus  = 
t  i  o  n .  —  The 
solid  particles 
of  carbon 
from  the 
smoke  of  fires,  and  the  fumes  of  burning 
sulphur,  are  harmful  to  the  respiratory  ap- 
paratus. The  gaseous  products,  such  as 
carbon  dioxide  and  carbon  monoxide,  may 
cause  death  if  present  in  large  quantities, 
and  even  in  small  quantities  cause  pallor, 
headache,  heaviness,  and  oppression. 

Sewer  Gas. — If  an  atmosphere  is  very 
largely  contaminated  with  sewer  gas,  death 
may  occasionally  result.  In  smaller  quan- 
tities this  form  of  impurity  will  cause  sleep- 
iness, headache,  loss  of  appetite,  vomiting, 
diarrhoea,  colic,  and  prostration.  Diarrhoea, 
typhoid  fever,  and  almost  certainly  diph- 
theria are  not  uncommonly  set  up  by  sewer 
gas  getting  into  houses,  but  at  present  there  is 
no  certain  proof  that  scarlatina  can  be  caused 
in  this  way.  The  air  coming  from  rivers 
polluted  with  sewage,  or  from  land  on  which 
sewage  has  been  thrown,  has  been  known 
to  cause  dyspepsia,  and  even  dysentery. 

Other  Causes. — The  air  from  marshy  or 
newly-broken  ground  is  apt  to  produce  ague. 
Workmen  exposed  to  the  dust  arising  from 
various  occupations  are  liable  to  lung  dis- 
ease. Lead  poisoning  not  unfrequently  oc- 
curs from  lead  dust  from  dyed  goods  ;  wool 
sorters  occasionally  get  a  fatal  disease  called 
anthrax  from  germs  coming  from  the  wool 
of  animals  which  have  been  similarly  af- 
fected, and  various  other  diseases  arise  from 
the  unhealthy  air  of  work-rooms. 

Diseases  Due  to  Impure  Water. 

Water  is  another  fertile  source  of  dis- 
ease, many  organic  and  inorganic  impuri- 
ties making  their  way  into  it.     It  is  to  the 

34 


former  that  its  unhealthfulness  is  generally 
due.  Nearly  all  water  from  the  earth  con- 
tains some  mineral  ingredients,  few  of 
which  are  harmful,  some  of  which  are 
healthful.  The  waters  of  many  mineral 
springs  serve  as  remedies  for  serious  dis- 
orders of  the  system.  The  chief  source  of 
water  pollution  lies  in  organic  impurities, 
which  are  carried  through  the  soil  from  cess- 
pools, manure  heaps,  and  similar  sources 
into  wells,  or  are  emptied  by  sewers  into 
the  rivers  from  which  many  cities  now  de- 
rive their  drinking  water. 

The  lack  of  sufiicient  water  may  also  be 
a  cause  of  disease.  The  person  and  clothes 
are  not  properly  washed,  houses  and  streets 
are  dirty,  and  the  sewers  become  clogged 
with  filth.  As  a  result  there  is  a  general 
lower  state  of  health  of  the  community,  and 
typhoid  fever  and  diarrhoea  may  be  preval- 
ent. 

Vegetable  Impurities. — Peaty  water,  in 
the  absence  of  a  better  supply,  may  be  used 
without  much  harm,  but  if  the  amount  of 
solid  matter  is  great  it  may  even  produce 
diarrhoea.  Under  this  head  we  must  include 
water  containing  germs,  for  although  they 
generally  get  into  the  water  from  the  excre- 
tions of  animals,  yet,  as  we  know,  they  are 
vegetable  in  nature.  Here  we  shall  meet 
with  the  most  dangerous  kinds  of  water, 
causing  many  fatal  epidemics. 

Cholera. — Chief  among  these  is  cholera, 
whose  germs  are  now  thought  to  be  con- 
veyed only  by  water.  The  great  epidemic 
at  Hamburg  in  1892,  was  traced  to  sewage 
water  from  cholera  patients  getting  into  the 
river  Elbe,  which  supplies  the  city  with 
water.  The  constant  outbreaks  of  cholera 
which  occur  amongst  the  Mecca  pilgrims 
every  year  are  due  to  the  fact  that  they  wash 
in  and  drink  out  of  the  same  wells,  thus 
leading  to  an  enormous  mortality.  This 
frequently,  perhaps  almost  wholly,  comes 
from  a  like  distribution  of  the  bacterial 
germs  of  the  disease  by  water.  Typhoid 
fever  has  been  traced  to  this  cause  in  numer- 
ous instances.  This  was  the  case  at  Over 
Darwen  in  1874,  when  a  drain  containing 
the  excreta  of  a  typhoid  patient  was  blocked , 
and  its  contents  got  in  the  main  pipe  of  the 
water  supply.  As  a  result,  out  of  a  popu- 
lation of  22,000  there  were  2,035  cases  of 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


typhoid  fever  and  104  deaths.  In  Bangor, 
in  1882,  there  occurred  an  epidemic  of 
typhoid  fever,  affecting  540 'persons  out  of  a 
population  of  10,000,  of  whom  42  died. 
This  was  found  to  be  caused  by  the  excreta 


HOW    PEOPLE  DRINK  SEWAGE. 


of  a  single  typhoid  patient  getting  into  a 
small  stream  which  discharged  into  the  river 
supplying  the  town  with  water. 

Diphtheria  is  probably  conveyed  and 
caused  by  impure  water,  but  this  is  not  yet 
absolutely  proved.  Dysentery  is  well  known 
in  tropical  countries  to  be  caused  by  impure 
water,  as  was  proved  b)''  an  outbreak  at  Cape 
Coast  Castle,  where  it  was  caused  by  the 
passage  of  sewage  into  one  of  the  drinking 
tanks.  Diarrhoea  has  been  caused  in  epi- 
demic form  by  impure  water,  as  was  shown 
in  the  old  Salford  jail,  where  the  un trapped 
overflow  pipe  from  a  cistern  of  drinking 
water  communicated  with  a  sewer,  and  the 
water  had  thus  absorbed  sewer  gas,  and 
probably  germs. 

Mineral  Impurities. — A  moderate  de- 
gree of  hardness  is  not  harmful,  but  if  the 
hardness  is  great  dyspepsia  and  constipation 
may  result.  Goitre  seems  to  be  due  to  the 
presence  of  magnesium  limestone  in  the 
drinking  water,  but  this  is  disputed  by  some. 
Iron  salts  cause  dyspepsia,  constipation,  and 
headache.  L,ead  salts  are  especially  dan- 
gerous, causing  colic,  paralysis,  kidney  dis- 
ease, and  sometimes  death.  These  symp- 
toms may  occur  when  the  amount  of  lead 
does  not  exceed  one-tenth  grain  per  gallon, 


the 


Purification  of  Water. 

Fortunately,  it  is  comparatively  easy  to 
destroy  the  injurious  organic  impurities  of 
water  and  render  it  wholesome  for  drinking 
purposes.  This,  it  is  true,  demands 
a  degree  of  care  and  precaution  which 
many  will  not  take*  and  as  a  result  of 
ignorance  and  heedlessness,  water  is 
almost  everywhere  a  common  carrier 
of  disease.  The  peril  of  injury  from 
it  can  be  overcome  in  a  measure  by  the 
use  of  domestic  filters,  composed  of 
charcoal  or  other  substances.  These, 
however,  are  much  more  effective  in 
removing  the  mineral  ingredients  than 
the  more  dangerous  organic  particles. 
They  also  are  rarely  kept  pure  and 
clean,  and  may  become  simply  breed- 
ing places  for  bacteria. 

Boiling.  —  The  only  safe  way  of 
purifying  questionable  water  in  house- 
holds is  by  boiling.  The  disease 
germs,  whicn  can  endure  unharmed 
low  temperature  of  liquid  air,  are 
destroyed  by  boiling  water.  To  make  sure, 
the  boiling  should  be  kept  up  at  least 
ten  minutes.  An  unpleasant  effect  of  this 
is  that  it  gives  the  water  a  flat  taste  from  its 
loss  of  air.  Some  means  should  be  adopted  to 
restore  to  it  the  lost  air.  This  may  be  done  in 
a  measure  by  subsequent  filtering,  the  water 
slowly  trickling  down  through  and  absorb- 
ing the  air. 

City  Filters. — Of  late  years  many  cities 
have  introduced  filters  on  an  extensive  scale, 
to  purify  the  total  supply  and  thus  cut  ofl" 
this  prolific  cause  of  disease  at  its  source. 
The  principal  means  employed  for  this  are 
large  filter-beds  of  sand  and  gravel,  though 
in  some  cities  spongy  iron  is  used  with  good 
effect.  The  result  has  been  highly  encoura- 
ging in  the  prevention  of  epidemic  diseases, 
and  filter-beds  are  likely  to  be  introduced 
before  many  years  into  the  water-supply  of 
all  our  larger  cities. 

Diseases  Due  to  Food, 

Food  may  in  various  ways  give  rise  to 
disease.  Over-eating  is  one  source  of  injury 
to  the  system.  Part  of  the  food  is  not  ab- 
sorbed, and  may  become  putrid  in  the  intes- 


,343 


roo 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


tines,  causing  dyspepsia,  constipation,  or 
diarrhoea.  If  the  excess  consumed  is  prin- 
cipally in  the  nitrogenous  materials,  it  leads 
to  an  increase  of  the  chemical  changes  in 
the  body,  and  the  person  tends  to  become 
thin  rather  than  the  contrary.  It  may  cause 
gouty  conditions  and  disease  of  the  kidneys 
and  blood-vessels.  Excess  of  starchy  and 
sugary  foods  often  causes  acidity  and  flatu- 
lence and  great  fattiness  of  the  body,  as  is 
also  the  case  with  excess  of  fatty  food. 

Deficiency  of  Food  produces  gradual  loss 
of  flesh  and  weakness  of  all  the  bodily  or- 
gans, particularly  of  the  heart.  The  body 
is,  moreover,  little  able  to  resist  cold  and 
various  diseases,  and  thus  half-starved  peo- 
ple are  easily  attacked  by  fevers  and  con- 
sumption. 

Bad  Proportion  of  Food  Stuffs. — If 
food  is  not  given  in  about  the  right  propor- 
tions, various  dyspeptic  troubles  may  arise, 
and  the  body  will  not  h^  properly  nourished. 
Similarly,  eating  foot",  in  a  hurry,  bad  cook- 
ing of  food,  and  a  bad  arrangement  of  meals, 
the  food  being  taken  too  often  or  too  sel- 
dom, or  too  much  taken  at  one  time  and 
too  little  at  another,  will  lead  to  stomach 
troubles. 

Scurvy. — One  of  the  best-known  diseases 
caused  by  the  absence  of  some  essential  of  a 
diet  is  called  scurvy.  This  used  to  be  very 
common  on  board  ships  on  long  voyages, 
and  was  caused  either  by  the  great  use  of 
salt  beef,  or  (much  more  probably)  by  the 
absence  of  fresh  vegetables  containing  the 
necessary  vegetable  acids.  Nowadays  fresh 
meat  can  be  more  easily  taken  on  long  voy- 
ages, and  potatoes  and  lime-juice  are  freely 
given,  so  that  sea  scurvy  is  practically  un- 
known. In  large  towns,  however,  we  very 
frequently  see  the  same  disease,  as  shown  by 
the  sore  and  bleeding  gums  and  the  appear- 
ance of  blood  under  the  skin  like  small 
bruises,  and  the  condition  is  only  found  in 
badly-fed  people,  who  will  tell  you  that  they 
live  almost  entirely  on  bread  and  butter  and 
tea,  with  meat  occasionally,  and  fresh  vege- 
tables sometimes  on  Sunday.  This  land 
scurvy  soon  disappears  when  proper  food  is 
given . 

Rickets  is  a  disease  found  in  young  chil- 
dren, and  is  very  largely  due  to  feeding 
with  improper  food  (such  as  starchy  mate- 


rials,), and  to  an  absence  of  fresh  air.  The 
child  perspires  chiefly  about  the  head  at 
night,  and  the  whole  body  seems  to  be  ten- 
der and  sore,  the  ends  of  the  bones  becoming 
soft  and  enlarged,  especially  near  the  ankles 
and  wrists,  and  deformities  of  the  limbs, 
such  as  bow  legs  or  knock  knees,  may 
result.  If  there  is  any  sign  of  this  disease 
beginning,  the  child  must  not  on  any 
account  be  allowed  to  walk  for  many 
months,  and  he  should  be  given  plenty  of 
fresh  air,  sunlight,  and  good  nourishing 
food. 

Diseases  Due  tl)  Food  Eaten  when  it 
has  Become  Putrid. — It  is  a  curious  fact 
which  we  cannot  explain  that  some  food, 
such  as  ripe  cheese,  game,  and  "high" 
mutton  is  only  eaten  in  a  state  of  decompo- 
sition, and  yet  no  evil  results  follow.  Apart 
from  these  examples,  we  know  that  putrid 
food  ought  to  be  absolutely  avoided,  as  it 
may  cause  intense  poisoning,  with  vomiting, 
diarrhoea,  great  collapse,  and  even  death. 
Such  cases  are,  unfortunately,  not  uncom- 
mon from  the  eating  of  putrid  meat  pies, 
hams,  and  sausages. 

Food  Diseased  in  Itself. — Diseased  ani- 
mals not  unfrequently  communicate  their 
diseases  to  man .  Thus  so  called  ' '  measly  ' ' 
cattle  and  pigs  contain  in  the  flesh  or  mus- 
cles innumerable  small  bladders,  which  are 
living  animals  of  a  low  type.  When  these 
are  taken  into  the  intestines  of  man  without 
being  killed  by  thorough  cooking  they 
begin  to  grow,  and  form  tape- worms. 
Another  disease,  found  often  in  Germany, 
Russia,  and  Sweden,  is  trichinosis,  which  is 
caused  by  eating  pork  either  raw  or  not 
properly  cooked.  Minute  worms  live  in  the 
muscles  of  the  pig,  and  these,  on  getting 
into  the  intestines  of  man,  begin  to  breed  in 
enormous  numbers  ;  the  young  worms  then 
pierce  the  intestines,  get  into  the  blood-ves- 
sels and  into  the  muscles,  so  causing  diar- 
rhoea, fever,  pains  in  the  muscles,  and  even 
death . 

Certain  diseases  in  cattle  ought  certainly 
to  prevent  them  being  used  as  food  ;  these 
are  infectious  inflammation  of  the  lungs  of 
cattle,  cattle  plague,  and  consumption  in 
the  cow,  smallpox  in  the  sheep,  and  trichi- 
nosis and  swine  fever  in  the  pig.  The 
milk  also  of  cows  affected  with  foot   and 


344 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


lOl 


BxOUth  disease  sometimes  causes  severe 
symptoms  with  very  sore  mouth  and  lips, 
and,  rarely,  sore  hands  in  children,  and  it  is 
almost  certain  that  the  milk  of  tubercular 
(consumptive)  cattle  will  cause  consump- 
tion in  the  human  being. 

Vegetable  foods,  if  putrid  and  decayed, 
may  cause  severe  illness,  just  as  may  hap- 
pen with  putrid  animal  food. 

Good  Food  conveying  Germs. — This  is 
most  frequent  in  the  case  of  milk,  where  it 
has  been  found  that  whole  districts  supplied 
by  one  milk  farm  have  been  affected  with 
some  disease,  such  as  typhoid  fever,  diph- 
theria, or  scarlet  fever,  and  inquiries  have 
shown  that  either  at  the  farm  or  in  the  milk 
shop  germs  of  these  diseases  have  got  into 
the  milk,  either  from  the  air,  from  sewer 
gas,  or  more  often  from  water  taken  from 
an  impure  source,  and  either  added  to  the 
milk  as  an  adulteration,  or  used  for  washing 
out  the  milk  cans.  These  diseases  carried 
by  milk,  as  well  as  tuberculosis  from  the 
milk  of  tuberculous  cows,  can  be  entirely 
prevented  by  boiling  the  milk  for  at  least 
five  minutes  before  it  is  used. 

Alcohol  and  Tobacco. — Alcohol  is  not 
required  by  the  body,  and,  as  a  rule,  to 
which  there  are  few  exceptions,  people  are 
much  better  and  healthier  without  it ;  for 
instance,  it  has  been  repeatedly  proved  that 
soldiers  can  bear  the  hard  labor  of  war  very 
much  better  when  no  alcohol  is  given  to 
them.  In  large  and  repeated  quantities  it 
causes  many  diseases,  such  as  gout,  diseases 
of  the  liver,  heart,  brain,  and  nerves.  When 
taken,  it  should  never  be  between  meals,  but 
only  with  food  ;  it  should  never  be  given  to 
children  except  when  ordered  by  a  doctor, 
and  should  never  be  taken  by  those  who 
have  insanity  or  drunkenness  in  their  fami- 
lies. In  the  treatment  of  disease  it  is  a  most 
useful  drug,  but  here  again  only  to  be  used 
by  a  doctor's  order. 

Tobacco  =  smoking  is  a  habit  which 
should  never  be  indulged  in  by  any  one 
under  twenty-one  years  of  age.  Even  after 
that  age  it  is  merely  a  luxury,  and  not  a 
necessity,  and  if  practiced  in  excess  it  may 
cause  pain  and  irregularity  of  the  heart, 
sole  throat,  dyspepsia,  and  partial  blind- 
ness. 

3  2  34 


Infectious  Diseases. 

Diseases  which  may  be  communicated 
from  one  person  to  another,  or  from  an  ani- 
mal to  a  man,  are  known  as  infectious  dis- 
eases. Some  of  these,  such  as  itch,  lice, 
ringworm,  hydrophobia,  and  a  few  others, 
require  actual  contact  with  a  diseased  per- 
son or  animal,  and  so  are  called  contagious 
diseases.  Some  of  the  other  infectious  dis- 
eases, though  actually  transmitted  in  a  dif- 
ferent way,  may  also  be  conveyed  by  touch. 

Animal  Parasites. — The  commonest  at- 
tacking the  external  parts,  such  as  fleas, 
bugs,  lice,  and  mosquitoes,  are  generally 
well  known.  They  cause  much  irritation, 
with  small  lumps  on  the  skin,  and  scratch- 
ing leaves  many  marks  on  the  body.  The 
itch  insect  is  very  minute  and  microscopic, 
but  as  the  female  burrows  under  the  skin 
and  lays  her  eggs,  small  papules  and  pus- 
tules form,  with  very  great  irritation,  and 
the  body  may  be  almost  covered  with  an 
unsightly  eruption.  This  disease  can  be 
communicated  by  touch  to  others.  The 
head  louse  attacks  the  hair,  and  may  be 
seen  crawling  about,  or  its  eggs  or  "  nits" 
can  be  seen  fixed  on  to  the  hairs  themselves. 
It  causes  much  irritation,  eruptions  on  the 
head,  and  lumps  at  the  back  of  the  neck. 

Some  insects  are  also  of  injury  as  con- 
veyers of  germ  diseases.  For  instance,  it  is 
now  known  that  the  germs  of  malaria  and 
yellow-fever  are  largely,  if  not  solely,  car- 
ried by  mosquitoes.  Flies  also  carry  some 
diseases  from  one  person  to  another,  especi- 
ally ophthalmia. 

The  animal  parasites  attacking  the  in- 
ternal parts  of  the  body  are  numerous.  The 
commonest  are  tape-worms  which  get  into 
the  body  with  diseased  meat  of  the  cow  or 
pig,  and  cause  much  irritation  from  their 
presence  in  the  small  intestine  ;  the  common 
round  worm,  about  twelve  inches  long, 
which  also  lives  in  the  small  intestine  ;  and 
thread  or  seat  v^^orms  in  the  lower  part  of  the 
large  intestine,  causing  great  discomfort. 
Very  rarely  in  this  country  the  trichina  gets 
into  the  intestines  and  muscles  of  man  from 
diseased  pork.  It  is  not  easily  killed  or  ex- 
pelled if  it  has  once  got  into  the  body.  The 
other  worms  mentioned  may  be  easily  expel- 
led by  simple  medicines,  and  any  discomfort 


I02 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


which  they  may  have  caused  is  thus  re- 
moved. Another  internal  animal  parasite, 
which  is  fortunately  not  very  common,  is 
the  "bladder"  form  of  the  tape-worm  of 
the  dog.  This  bladder  may  begin  to  grow 
in  some  organ  (generally  the  liver)  of  the 
human  body,  and  cause  great  suffering,  and 
even  death,  from  its  large  size.  It  can  only 
be  removed  effectually  by  a  surgical  oper- 
ation. 

Vegetable  Parasites. — These  are  all 
very  minute,  and  only  visible  by  the  micro- 
scope, and  their  presence  on  or  in  the  body 
is  only  judged  from  the  diseases  which  they 
set  up.  They  attack  either  the  external  or 
internal  parts  of  the  body.  They  may  be 
all  included  under  the  one  head  of  germs  or 
micro-organisms.  These  are  small,  gener- 
ally microscopic  organisms  of  the  lowest 
forms  of  vegetable  life. 

How  Germs  are  Conveyed  and  Re= 
ceived. — Germs  may  be  carried  from  one 
person  to  another,  and  received  by  that  per- 
son in  different  ways.  They  may  be  con- 
veyed by  actual  contact,  as  in  the  case  of 
ringworm,  erysipelas,  ophthalmia  (infectious 
inflammation  of  the  eyes),  hydrophobia, 
small-pox,  etc.  The  germs  may  possibly 
be  taken  in  through  the  unbroken  skin,  but 
much  more  frequently  through  a  small  crack 
or  sore  in  the  skin.  Secondly,  they  may 
be  conveyed  by  the  air,  and  taken  in  by  the 
breath.  This  is  by  far  the  commonest 
method,  as  seen  in  whooping-cough,  scarla- 
tina, small-pox,  diphtheria,  measles,  con- 
sumption, etc.  Thirdly,  they  may  be"  car- 
ried by  water,  and  so  taken  into  the  stomach 
and  intestines,  as  with  cholera,  typhoid 
fever,  dysentery,  etc.  Fourthly,  by  the 
food,  and  taken  to  the  stomach  and  intes- 
tines as  before,  as  with  typhoid  fever,  con- 
sumption, and  foot-and-mouth  disease  (con- 
veyed by  milk).  Fifthly,  they  may  be  car- 
ried by  clothes,  and  so  get  into  the  air,  as 
with  scarlatina.  They  may  also  be  carried 
by  insects,  such  as  flies  and  mosquitoes,  as 
above  stated.  In  some  instances  the  method 
of  conveyance  is  mysterious,  as  in  the 
widely -prevalent  influenza,  whose  history 
has  so  far  baffled  res'^arch . 

Why  Children  Should  not  be  Purposely 
Exposed  to  Infectious  Fevers.  —  It  is  the 
custom  with  some  ignorant  mothers  to  pur- 


346 


posely  expose  their  children  to  mild  cases 
of  fever,  especially  measles,  chicken-pox, 
and  scarlatina,  because  they  say  the  children 
are  certain  to  get  them  at  some  time  or  an- 
other, and  in  this  way  they  think  their  chi'  • 
dren  will  have  mild  attacks  which  will  pro- 
tect them  in  the  future.  Such  a  practice  is 
almost  criminal,  and  should  be  absolutely 
condemned,  and  for  the  following  reasons 
It  is  not  certain  that  a  child  will  have  fever 
at  some  time  or  another  ;  if  proper  precau- 
tions were  taken  it  would  not  have  an  in- 
fectious disease.  A  mild  attack  in  one  per- 
son is  not  always  followed  by  a  mild  attack 
in  another,  but  may  give  rise  to  a  very 
serious  one.  One  attack  of  fever  does  not 
necessarily  prevent  a  second  attack  of  the 
same  fever  at  some  future  time.  The  death- 
rate  in  children  suffering  from  most  fevers 
(such  as  measles  or  scarlatina)  is  always 
greater  than  in  adults.  Finally,  as  a  rule, 
the  older  a  child  grows  the  less  likely  is  it 
to  be  attacked  by  a  particular  fever. 

Disinfectants. — ^This  word  should  only 
be  used  to  indicate  some  process  or  chemical 
agent  which  will  absolutely  kill  germs  and 
spores.  It  is,  however,  unfortunately  ap- 
plied to  other  classes,  the  antiseptics,  which 
will  only  stop  the  growth  of  the  germs,  but 
will  not  kill  them  ;  and  the  deodorants, 
which  merely  remove  disagreeable  smells, 
and  often  have  no  action  whatever  on  the 
germs  themselves.  It  is  obvious  that  we 
must  use  a  true  disinfectant  if  we  wish  to 
prevent  the  spread  of  disease. 

Deodorants  are  such  substances  as  the 
vapors  of  turpentine,  burning  peat,  or  boil- 
ing tar  ;  such  liquids  as  Condy's  fluid,  or 
various  odorous  fluids  such  as  eucalyptus ; 
and  such  solids  as  charcoal  or  camphor. 
Most  of  these  take  away  unpleasant  smells, 
but  are  otherwise  useless. 

Antiseptics  include  such  bodies  as 
borax,  boracic  acid,  chloride  of  lime,  thy- 
mol, Condy's  fluid,  and  various  patent  dis- 
infectants (so-called).  These  will  arrest  the 
growth  of  germs,  and  so  prevent  putrefac- 
faction,  but  few  of  them  will  absolutely  kill 
germs.  Condy's  fluid  will,  of  course,  do  so, 
but  only  when  used  in  such  a  strong  solution 
that  it  would  discolor  and  destroy  any 
clothes  put  into  it. 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


103 


True  disinfectants  are  of  three  kinds : 
fumigation,  heat,  and  chemical. 

Fumtgation  by  chlorine  and  sulphu^'ous 
acid  gas.  It  is  probable  that  many  spores 
will  resist  this  method,  and  germs  hidden, 
say  in  the  pocket  of  a  coat,  will  escc^pe  de- 
struction. 

Heat. — This  is  the  best  method  of  disin- 
fection as,  if  the  temperature  is  sufficiently 
high,  all  germs  and  their  spores  will  be  de- 
stroyed. Unfortunately,  it  cannot  be  ap- 
plied in  the  case  of  all  infected  articles.  A 
ready  method  of  heat-disinfection  which  can 
be  used  in  eveiy  household  is,  where  possi- 
ble, to  boil  any  infected  article,  as  it  has 
been  shown  that  by  boiling  for  ten  minutes 
all  germs  and  spores  are  destroyed. 

Chemical      Disinfectants.  —  Although 


there  are  many  so-called  disinfectants  offered 
for  sale,  yet  only  a  few  are  true  disinfectants 
if  used  in  a  strength  which  will  not  destroy 
the  articles  to  be  disinfected.  Of  these  we 
shall  only  mention  two,  namely,  carbolic 
acid  and  corrosive  sublimate.  Both  of  these 
are  dangerous  poisons,  and  must  be  handled 
with  the  utmost  care.  Carbolic  acid  needs 
to  be  diluted  in  the  proportion  of  i  part 
acid  to  20  parts  water.  Corrosive  sub- 
limate is  sold  in  the  form  of  tablets,  colored 
blue  to  avoid  accidents.  These  must  be 
dissolved  in  water  in  the  proportion  of  i  part 
to  1,000. 

Contagious  Diseases. 

The  following  points  will  help  to  deter- 
mine the  nature  of  a  suspicious  illness : 


Disease 

Rash  or  Eruption 

Appearance 

Duration 
IN  Days 

Remarks 

Chicken-pox    .   .  . 
ErYSIPEIvAS     .... 
MEASr,ES 

Scari,ex  Fever    .  . 
Smai,i,-pox 

Typhoid  Fever     .  . 

Small  rose  pimples 
changing  to  vesicles 

Diffuse  redness  and 
swelling 

Small  red  dots  like  flea 
bites 

Bright  scarlet,  difiiised 

Small  red  pimples 
changing  to  vesicles, 
then  pustules  .   .   . 

Rose-colored  spots 
scattered 

2d  day  of  fever  or  after 

24  hours  illness  .    . 

2d  or  3d  day  of  illness. 

4th  d  a  y  of  fever  or 
after  72  hours'  ill- 
ness     

2d  day  of  fever  or  after 
24  hours'  illness .    . 

3d  day  of  fever  or  after 
48  hours'  illness  .   . 

nth  to  14th  day  .   .   . 

6-7 

6-10 

8-10 
14-21 

22-30 

Scabs    from    about 
fourth  day  of  fever. 

Rash  fades  on  7th  day. 

Rash  fedes  on  5th  day. 

Scabs  form  9th  or  loth 
day,  fell  oflf  about- 
14th. 

Accompanied  by  diar- 
rhoea. 

It  will  often  relieve  a  mother's  anxiety 
to  know  how  long  there  is  danger  of  infec- 
tion after  a  child  has  been  exposed  to  a  con- 


tagious disease.  The  following  table  gives 
the  information  concerning  the  more  im- 
portant diseases  : 


Disease 

Symptoms 
Appear 

Period 
Ranges  from 

Patient  is  Infectious 

Chicken-pox 

Diphtheria 

Measles* 

Mumps 

Rothei^n 

ScARi,ET  Fever 

Smai,i,-pox 

On  14th  day 
"       2d  day 
'*    14th  day 
"    19th  day 
"    14th  day 
"     4fh  day 
"   1 2th  day 
"    2ist  day 
"    14th  day 

10  to  18  days 

2  to    5  days 

10  to  14  days 

16  to  24  days 

12  to  20  days 

I  to    7  days 

I  to  14  days 

I  to  28  days 

7  to  14  days 

Until  all  scabs  have  fallen  off. 

14  d's  after  disappearance  of  membrane. 

Until  scaling  and  cough  have  ceased. 

14  days  from  commencement. 

10  to  14  days  from  commencement. 

Until  all  scaling  has  ceased. 

Typhoid  Fever 

Whooping  Cough! 

Until  diarrhoea  ceases. 

Six  weeks  from  beginning  to  whoop. 

*  In  measles  the  patient  is  infectious  three  days  before  the  eruption  appears. 

t  In  whooping-cough  the  patient  is  infectious  during  the  primary  cough,  which  may  be  three  weeks 
before  the  whoopi&g  begins. 


I04 


THE  FAMILY  DOCrOR 


How  to  Avoid  Disease. 

There  are  various  ways  in  which  disease 
may  be  avoided.  One  is  not  to  expose  our- 
selves to  contagion  or  injurious  influences. 
We  need  to  be  careful  of  the  food  we  eat, 
the  water  we  drink,  even  the  air  we  breathe, 
for  all  of  these,  as  above  shown,  are  prolific 
sources  of  the  germs  of  disease.  We  must 
also  keep  away  from  these  aflBicted  with  con- 
tagious diseases,  or,  if  obliged  to  enter  their 
presence,  take  precautions  to  avoid  in- 
fection. 

This  danger  is  now  taken  in  hand  by  the 
health  authorities  of  cities,  patients  of  this 
character  being  removed  to  special  hos- 
pitals, or,  if  kept  at  home,  the  yellow 
placard  of  warning  is  conspicuously  dis- 
played. Only  physicians  and  nurses — who 
are  supposed  to  know  how  to  take  care  of 
themselves — are  permitted  to  enter  the  sick- 
room, or  even  the  house  in  cases  of  this 
kind. 

A  second  and  highly  important  method 
of  avoiding  disease,  whether  infectious  or 
from  organic  weakness,  is  to  strengthen  the 
system  by  dint  of  suitable  exercises  ;  seek  to 
breathe  only  fresh  and  pure  air,  adapting  the 
clothing  to  the  climate  and  the  bodily  needs, 
and  in  other  ways  endeavoring  to  harden 
the  body  and  to  enable  it  to  defy  the  insidi- 
ous assaults  of  disease. 

Muscular  Exercise. 

Exercise  of  all  parts  of  the  body  is  an 
absolute  necessity  for  the  maintenance  of 
perfect  health.  If  a  steam-engine  is  allowed 
to  stand  idle  it  will  soon  rust  and  get  out  of 
order.  Similarly,  if  the  body  has  no  work 
to  do,  it  will  become  too  fat,  and  the  mus- 
cles will  waste  and  get  flabby,  the  heart  will 
become  weak,  the  circulation  slow  and  fee- 
.ble,  the  blood  will  not  be  properly  aerated, 
poisonous  products  will  accumulate  in  the 
body,  the  complexion  will  be  pale,  and  the 
intellect  dull,  and  if  the  brain  is  not  regu- 
larly exercised  the  person  will  merely  de- 
velop into  a  muscular  animal,  no  better 
than  a  savage  ;  he  will  be  stupid,  ignorant, 
and  uninteresting  both  to  himself  and  to 
others. 

The  effect  of  regular  muscular  exercise 
is   to   expand   the   lungs,    to   increase   the 


amount  of  oxygen  taken  in  ajd  the  carbon 
dioxide  breathed  out ;  the  sweat  is  increased , 
and  so  exercise  helps  to  get  rid  of  waste 
matters  from  the  body.  The  heart  is 
strengthened,  the  blood  is  more  aerated,  the 
muscles  grow  larger,  harder,  and  more  ac- 
tive, the  appetite  and  digestive  powers  in- 
crease, the  body  is  kept  warm,  and  the  brain 
is  more  active  and  bright  as  a  result  of  the 
general  health  being  so  good.  During  exer- 
cise more  food  is  required  and  much  pure 
air. 

The  brain  worker  should  take  regular 
gymnastic  exercise  in  a  well-ventilated  gym- 
nasium, or,  better  still,  regular  outdoor 
exercise,  such  as  walking,  climbing,  swim- 
ming, cricket,  or  lawn  tennis.  It  is  very 
necessary  that  such  exercise  should  be  regu- 
lar, as  if  done  irregularly  or  in  "  spurts  ' '  it 
will  do  more  harm  than  good,  because  the 
muscles,  not  being  in  training,  will  soon 
get  tired,  and  the  body  will  suffer.  The 
person  whose  occupation  is  an  entirely  mus- 
cular one,  such  as  the  common  laborer  or 
the  blacksmith,  should  spend  his  spare  time 
in  reading,  music,  and  other  mental  studies. 
In  other  words,  every  man  should  have 
a  ' '  hobby  ' '  which  should  exercise  faculties 
as  different  as  possible  from  the  usual  occu- 
pation. There  is  but  little  danger  in  hard 
and  continuous  work,  provided  it  is  varied 
and  not  monotonous ;  it  is  not  work  but 
worry  which  kills.  The  tendency  to  worry 
when  there  is  no  need,  and  which  is  such  a 
prominent  feature  with  some  people,  should 
be  constantly  kept  down. 

The  above  rem.arks  as  regards  exercise 
apply,  of  course,  not  only  to  men  but  to 
women,  and  to  them  almost  with  greater 
force,  as  women  neglect  it  to  such  an  extent. 
There  are  plenty  of  forms  of  perfectly  wo- 
manly exercise  which  may  be  taken,  such 
as  walking,  rowing,  swimming,  skating, 
and  lawn  tennis,  and  if  these  were  indulged 
in  regularly  we  should  hear  less  of  hysteria 
and  weak  backs. 

The  conditions  necessary  for  keeping  the 
muscles  in  good  order  are  those  required  for 
the  healthy  nutrition  of  every  organ  of  the 
body  ;  namely  : 

Good,  rich  blood  ;  distribution  of  blood, 
and  of  nerve-force,  without  obstruction,  to 
each  part ;  exercise  of  the  organs,  according 
48 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


los 


to    their    ability ;    sufficient     intervals    of 
repose. 

Everybody  tnows  that  we  must  have 
sleep  for  several  hours  in  each  twenty-four, 
or  we  wear  out.  Besides  sleep,  however, 
which  affects  the  brain  only,  there  must  be 
rest  from  action  in  all  the  muscles. 

The  heart  must,  first  of  all,  be  protected 
from  disturbance.  It  naturally  beats  faster 
when  any  of  the  large  muscles  are  working 
actively,  as  when  we  run  or  walk  fast ; 
especially  up  stairs.  Our  breathing  is  then 
hurried  also  ;  and  thus,  commonly,  a  check 
is  put  upon  our  doing  too  much  :  we  "  get 
out  of  breath,"  and  have  to  stop  or  slacken 
our  movement. 

When  the  heart  is  overworked,  one  of 
two  things  happens.  If  the  body  is  at  the 
time  well  nourished,  and  its  general  vitality 
is  good,  the  heart  grows  stronger,  just  as 
other  muscles  do,  with  exercise.  In  time  it 
grows  thicker  also ;  and  this  is  the  ' '  hyper- 
trophy "  of  medical  books.  But,  if  the 
overwork  is  incessant,  the  blood  is  thin  and 
poor,  and  the  sum  of  energy  in  the  body  is 
low,  the  heart  b'ecomes  weak  instead ;  its 
muscular  fibres  become  pale  and  thin.  In 
this  condition  they  are  easily  stretched  by 
the  blood  within  the  heart's  cavities,  and  we 
have  what  doctors  call  ' '  dilatation  of  the 
heart." 

Tight  lacing  does  mischief  and  impairs 
health,  sometimes  causing  sudden  death,  by 
cramping  the  motion  of  the  heart,  as  well  as 
the  expansion  of  the  lungs  in  breathing.  It 
is  an  enormous  mistake ;  all  the  more  in- 
tolerable because  the  wasp-like  shape  which 
it  gives  to  the  female  figure  is  unlovely  as 
well  as  unnatural.  No  sculptor  of  classic 
Greece,  no  painter  of  Italy,  in  the  4ays  of 
Raphael,  Michael  Angelo,  and  Titian,  ever 
gave  to  a  goddess  or  a  Madonna  such  a  form 
as  modern  fashion  has  sometimes  tortured 
its  victims  to  obtain.  Happily,  there  is,  of 
late  years,  some  gain  in  fashion  in  regard  to 
this  matter  ;  the  direction  both  of  good  taste 
and  of  hygiene. 

Modes  of  Exercise. 

Walking  is  excellent  ;  unsurpassed  in 
benefit  to  the  system  if  one  can  afford  time 
"o  get  enough  of  it ;    a  pleasant  country. 


moderate  weather,  and  good  company  being 
almost  essential  to  its  advantages.  Begin- 
ners must  not  walk  too  fast  or  too  far. 
Stop  at  the  end  of  the  first  hour,  and  sit 
down  for  five  minutes.  Rest  ten  minutes  at 
the  end  of  the  second,  and  every  successive 
hour,  if  you  go  on  long  ;  and  never,  while 
unaccustomed  to  pedestrianism,  go  more 
than  three  miles  in  one  hour. 

Riding  on  horseback  is  an  admirable 
exercise  ;  but  it  leaves  neglected  a  number 
of  useful  muscles,  which  are  brought  into 
action  in  walking.  Farmers  in  some  places 
ride  on  horseback  almost  always,  if  they 
have  to  go  a  mile  or  more  ;  and,  in  conse- 
quence, they  become  poor  walkers.  They 
often  almost  wear  out  in  an  hour's  stroll 
over  hard  pavements  in  town.  Bicycling 
much  resembles  riding  in  effect. 

Rowing  is  a  capital  exercise.  More 
muscles  are  used  in  it  than  in  walking  or 
riding  on  horseback  ;  hands,  arms,  back, 
legs,  and  feet  are  all  strenghened  by  it. 

Skating  is  as  wholesome  in  itself  as  any 
exercise  can  be.  Always  in  a  cold,  brac- 
ing atmosphere  (except  roller  skating,  of 
course,  which  may  be  anywhere),  even  in  a 
"  rink,"  with  freedom  and  variety  of  move- 
ment of  the  body  and  limbs,  yet  without 
violence,  it  is  excellent  for  both  sexes. 

Swimming,  as  an  exercise,  apart  from 
the  good  obtained  from  bathing,  is  less 
favorable.  The  pressure  of  the  water,  and 
its  temperature  if  cool  or  cold,  force  the 
blood  more  or  less  from  the  surface  of  the 
body  to  the  head.  Swimming  rapidly  is, 
also,  a  violent  exercise.  But  every  boy  and 
girl  should  learn  to  swim  as  early  in  life  as 
possible,  so  as  to  lessen  the  danger  when 
"  overboard  "  unexpectedly  anywhere. 

Out=of  door  games,  as  lawn  tennis,  cro- 
quet, cricket,  base-ball,  are  all,  in  modera- 
tion, not  only  enjoyable,  but  wholesome  in 
their  effect  upon  the  bodily  condition.  Ex- 
hilaration of  mind  makes  all  exercise  more 
beneficial.  It  is  astonishing  what  an  amount 
of  work  people  will  do  under  the  name  of 
play.  A  Chinese  mandarin,  on  seeing  a 
number  of  English  gentlemen  engaged  act- 
ively in  a  game  of  base- ball  or  cricket  said, 
"  In  my  country  we  always  pay  people  foi 
taking  so  much  trouble  to  amuse  us."     No 


349 


io6 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


treadmill,  however,  would  ever  build  up 
muscle  like  the  cricket  ground. 

Healthy  Breathing. — Little  thought  is 
needed,  for  every  one  to  see  that  for  good 
breathing  there  must  be  sound  lungs  and 
air-  tubes,  and  strength  in  the  muscles  of  the 
chest,  as  well  as  pure  air.  Our  breathing 
muscles  can  be  strengthened  by  exercise. 
All  active  muscular  movements  of  any  part 
of  the  body,  but  especially  brisk  walking 
or  running,  quicken  the  action  of  the  heart ; 
and,  as  the  blood  then  goes  more  rapidly 
through  the  lungs,  it  needs  to  be,  and  is, 
aired  by  quicker  breathing. 

Using  the  voice  a  great  deal  (as  in  speak- 
ing or  singing)  in  early  life,  promotes  the 
growth  of  the  lungs  and  the  strength  of  the 
breathing  muscles.  Those  who  belong  to 
consumptive  families  should,  while  young, 
be  accustomed  to  active  out-of-door  habits  ; 
and  for  them,  reading  or  speaking  aloud  or 
singing  (vocal  gymnastics)  will  be  whole- 
some exercise  ;  that  is,  so  long  as  they  are 
well .  When  the  lungs  are  actually  diseased , 
active  efforts  of  all  kinds  should  be  avoided. 

Pure  air,  and  plenty  of  it,  is  a  constant 
necessity  for  health.  The  application  of 
this  truth  belongs  in  many  ways  to  our 
every-day  life,  especially,  of  course,  within 
doors.  Out  of  doors  we  can  usually  trust 
to  nature  to  supply  us  a  fair  share  of  whole- 
some air,  if,  of  course,  we  keep  away  from 
localities  in  which  the  air  is  vitiated  by  bad 
sanitation  or  other  unwholesome  surround- 
ings. 

Personal  Cleanliness. — The  importance 
of  cleanliness  in  all  the  actions  of  life  is  al- 
most too  apparent  to  need  mention,  were  it 
not  that  it  is  so  much  neglected  by  many. 
Not  only  cleanliness  of  the  skin,  the  hair, 
the  teeth,  the  nails,  and  the  clothing  is 
necessary,  but  also  cleanliness  in  all  our 
habits.  By  this  means  we  shall  avoid  many 
diseases  which  are  entirely  due  to  dirt  of  vari- 
ous kinds.  The  old  and  excellent  defini- 
tion that  dirt  is  matter  in  the  wrong  place 
suggests  that  it  should  be  removed ;  and 
when  we  remember  that  this  dirt  may  con- 
sist of  irritating  particles  of  minerals  in  the 
form  of  dust,  or  of  poisonous  chemicals,  and, 
more  fatally,  of  disease  germs,  we  shall  be 
greatly  impressed  with  the  necessity  of  being 
clean. 


350 


Clothing. 

Clothing,  to  promote  health,  should  be  : 
sufficient  for  comfortable  warmth  ;  not  ex- 
cessive in  quantity  or  pressure;  properly 
distributed  over  the  body  ;  suited  to  permit 
transpiration  and  moisture ;  changed  often 
enough  for  cleanliness. 

Some  persons,  with  the  idea  of  hardening 
themselves,  wear  as  little  clothing  in  winter 
as  possible.  This  is  perhaps  well  enough  if 
they  are  very  robust ;  but  if  not  strong,  they 
become  chilled  through  and  may  be  severely 
reduced  in  health. 

Yet  it  is  equally  a  mistake  to  keep  one's 
self  too  warm,  burdening  the  body  with  un- 
necessary clothing.  The  same  is  true  of 
bed-covering,  in  respect  to  which  people 
have  very  different  needs.  On  the  same 
night  one  may  be  satisfied  with  a  single 
blanket,  while  another  needs  two  or  three. 
Every  one  ought  to  be  warm  enough  to 
sleep  comfortably. 

Kind  of  Clothing. — We  should  adapt  the 
amount  and  quality  of  our  clothing  to  the 
weather.  Not  by  the  almanac,  however,  as 
the  seasons  do  not  follow  it  exactly.  Chi- 
nese people,  it  is  said,  having  cool  nights 
and  very  hot  noons,  begin  the  day  with 
several  light  garments  on.  As  the  hours  of 
morning  bring  warmth,  off  goes  one  thing 
after  another,  till  by  noon-day  they  have 
only  one  or  two  covers  left.  With  the  cool- 
ing of  the  afternoon  they  again  begin  to  put 
them  on  ;  and  so,  hour  by  hour,  they  get 
back  to  the  morning's  raiment.  This  is 
reasonable  enough.  Many  persons  among 
us  make  the  mistake  of  wearing  too  little 
clothing  (as  well  as  keeping  their  houses 
too  cool)  in  the  changeable  and  uncertain 
weather  of  spring  and  autumn  ;  and  a  large 
number  of  "  colds  "  are  caught  in  that  way. 

Of  the  materials  in  use  for  clothing,  the 
warmest  (besides  furs)  is  wool.  An  open, 
porous  fabric,  containing  air,  conducts  heat 
more  slowly  than  a  smooth,  dense  one  ;  be- 
cause air  itself  is  a  slow  heat-conductor.  So 
a  tight-fitting  kid  glove  scarcely  keeps  the 
hand  warm,  while  a  loose  mitten  is  very 
comfortable  in  cold  weather. 

Silk  is  a  slow  conductor  also,  and  it  is 
warm  for  garments  in  proportion  to  its  thick- 
ness.     It  conducts  electricity  very  slowly, 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


107 


wliicli  makes  it  particularly  suitable  for 
undergarments  with  those  who  are  liable  to 
pains  and  aches  on  damp  days,  or  when  the 
wind  is  "  easterly." 

Next  to  wool  and  silk  comes  cotton 
( muslin)  ;  and  the  coolest  of  all  are  linen 
garments.  These  are  most  fit  for  midsum- 
mer wear,  when  our  American  climate  is,  by 
fits  and  starts  at  least,  tropical.  Kvery  one 
should  be  prepared,  however,  at  all  seasons 
with  extras  to  put  on  in  case  of  change  of 
weather  from  warm  to  cool. 

In  our  variable  climate,  delicate  persons, 
especially  those  liable  to  rheumatism  or 
neuralgia,  generally  find  advantage  in  wear- 
ing either  light  flannel  or  silk  next  to  the 
body  even  through  the  summer,  with  a 
heavier  kind,  of  course,  for  winter. 

In  the  distribution  of  clothing  over  the 
body,  the  main  part  to  keep  warm  is  the 
chest.  As  it  contains  the  heart  and  lungs, 
all  the  blood  in  the  body  passes  through  it 
constantly,  and  conveys  its  temperature 
everywhere.  Moreover,  chilling  the  heart 
or  lungs  endangers  injury  to  those  central 
organs  themselves. 

Next,  the  abdomen  must  be  sufl5ciently 
protected.  Great  organs,  the  stomach, 
bowels,  liver,  spleen,  kidneys,  etc,,  are  con- 
tained in  it,  and  are  all  (most  of  all  the 
bowels)  liable  to  attacks  of  disorder  from 
cold.  Sudden  changes  of  temperature  often 
bring  on  diarrhoea ;  sometimes,  cholera- 
morbus  or  dysentery. 

Then,  the  extremities.  Of  these,  the 
feet  must  be  best  cared  for.  They  are 
farthest  from  the  heart,  and  nearest  to  the 
ground.  Hence,  at  the  same  general  tem- 
perature, they  suffer  most  from  cold.  Chil- 
dren, in  mild  climates,  may  grow  up  accus- 
tomed to  running  about  barefoot,  if  they 
have  freedom  and  space  to  acquire  active 
habits. 

Night  Attire — At  bedtime  all  the  clothes 
should  be  changed,  the  day  clothes  being 
hung  up  to  be  dried  and  ventilated.  The 
night  clothes  should  be  made  of  cotton, 
which  is  not  irritating  to  the  skin  as  woolen 
is.  Sufficient  warmth  will  be  given  by  the 
bedclothes,  which  should  consist  in  part  of 
blankets  or  feathers,  and  should  be  light 
and  warm.  A  woollen  night-dress,  besides 
being  irritating,  promotes  too  much  perspira- 

35 


tion,  and  makes  the  body  hot ;  but  for 
young  children;  old  people,  rheumatic  sub- 
jects, or  in  very  cold  climates,  a  woolen 
night-dress  is  necessary. 

How  to  Live   Long. 

As  a  brief  summary  statement  of  the 
most  essential  conditions  of  health  and 
longevity,  we  may  conclude  our  study  of 
Hygiene  with  the  following  precepts  : 

1 .  Never  breathe  three  breaths  of  foul  air 
when  you  can  get  out  from  it  into  that 
which  is  fresh,  or  can  get  fresh  air  into  the 
place  where  you  are. 

2.  Eat  when  you  are  hungry,  and  only 
wholesome  food.  Eat  slowly,  and  stop  as 
soon  as  hunger  is  satisfied. 

3.  Drink  pure  water  when  you  are 
thirsty ;  take  milk  as  part  of  your  daily 
food  ;  a  cup  of  tea,  not  too  strong,  if  you 
like  it,  or  cocoa;  but  coffee  only  when  you 
are  very  tired ;  and  alcoholic  beverages, 
while  in  good  health  and  strength,  never. 
Also,  make  no  use  of  tobacco. 

4.  Dress  always  with  a  view  to  comfort 
and  convenience  ;  not  compressing  the  chest, 
nor  impeding  the  movement  of  any  of  the 
limbs. 

5 .  Be  careful  to  maintain  a  regular  habit 
of  daily  movement  of  the  bowels. 

6.  Rest,  if  you  can,  when  tired,  and 
sleep  when  sleepy.  Take  eight  hours  of 
sleep  every  night ;  more,  if  you  feel  the 
need  of  it,  and  can  get  it. 

7.  Work  regularly  at  something  every 
day,  and  do  the  best  you  can  throughout ; 
but  avoid  over-work.  The  sign  of  it  is, 
that  you  wake  up  tired,  not  refreshed,  in 
the  morning. 

8.  Never  do  any  regular  week-day  labor 
(simple  unavoidable  small  chores  excepted) 
on  the  first  day  of  the  week.  Make  it  a  day 
of  repose  and  renovation  for  mind  and  body. 

9.  However  rich  you  may  be,  do  not 
make  pleasure  the  aim  and  object  of  life  ;  it 
will  wear  you  out  faster  than  work,  or  even 
worry. 

L,astly,  let  every  day  be  cheered  by  sun- 
shine from  above,  and  brightened  by  the 
hope  of  a  better  life  to  come. 


iOS 


VALUE  OF  VEGETABLE  AND  ANIMAL  FOOD 


No  subject  is  of  more  vital  importance 
to  the  care  of  health  than  that  of  food. 
Hence  a  knowledge  of  the  value  of  various 
food  products  is  indispensable  to  housekeep- 
ers and  to  those  who  value  their  own  health. 

Are  vegetarians  right,  who  insist  that 
we  should  eat  no  meat  at  all  ?  Their  argu- 
ment is,  that  vegetables  contain  all  the  ele- 
ments required  for  our  nourishment,  made 
up  into  organic  stuff,  ready  to  be  digested 
and  built  up  into  our  tissues  and  used  as 
fuel.  Hence,  they  say,  it  is  useless,  cruel, 
and  expensive  to  slay  our  subject  animals  to 
gratify  our  carnivorous  taste. 

True,  plants,  roots,  seeds,  and  fruits  do 
contain  everything  absolutely  necessary  for 
food.  Men  often  live  for  years,  many  per- 
haps (after  infancy)  for  lifetimes,  without 
animal  food.  But  that  is  not  the  whole 
question.  Is  a  solely  vegetable  diet  the  best 
for  health  with  all  people? 

On  this  we  must  inquire  further  ;  are  the 
elements  in  exactly  the  same  state  of  combi- 
7iatlon  in  vegetables  as  in  meat  ?  Our 
answer  is,  no.  They  are  more  concentrated 
in  animal  flesh,  are  worked  up  already  into 
animal  substances,  and  therefore  aii  more 
readily  assimilated  than  vegetable  food. 

Can  we  judge  by  anything  in  our  strnc- 
iure  which  we  are  best  fitted  for  ?  Flesh- 
eating  beasts,  as  lions,  cats,  dogs,  have  only 
sharp,  cutting,  and  tearing  teeth.  Grass- 
eaters  have  nippers  in  front,  and  all  the  back 
teeth  broad-crowned,  nearly  flat.  We  resem- 
ble the  bear,  hog,  and  rat,  in  having  teeth 
for  cutting  in  front,  tearing  at  the  sides,  and 
broad,  grinders  back  in  our  jaws. 

The  length  of  the  human  alimentary 
canal  (that  is,  stomach  and  intestines)  is 
about  six  times  that  of  our  bodies  ;  interme- 
diate between  that  of  the  purely  carnivorous 
and  of  the  entirely  herbivoyus  animals.  It 
would  seem  then  that,  like  the  bear,  hog, 
and  rat,  we  are  made  fit  for  either  animal  or 
vegetable  food.     We  are  om?iivoroiis. 

On  the  whole,  this  is  the  conclusion  to 
which  physicians  and  sanitarians  have  gen- 
erally come — that,  with  healthy  people, 
living  in  the  open  country,  not  working 
very  hard,  and  having  an  abundance  of  good  j 

o5 


vegetable  food,  meat  is  not  necessary.  They 
can  live  long  lives  without  it.  But,  in  close- 
built  cities,  where  the  air  is  not  pure,  where 
work  is  hard,  and  "vexation  of  spirit" 
abounds,  a  mixed  diet  is  best. 

Bread. 

Time  out  of  mind  ' '  the  staflFof  life,"  was 
made  of  brayed  grain  by  our  ancient  fore- 
fathers before  they  left  Western  Asia.  Bread 
contains  nitrogenous  and  non-nitrogenous 
food  principles  ;  gluten  and  starch,  as  well 
as  salts.  It  is  adapted  both  for  tissue-build- 
ing and  for  energy-producing  use  in  the 
body. 

Wheat  bread  is  as  strong  in  nitrogen  as 
any,  and  is  richer  than  other  kinds  in  phos- 
phates, which  are  supposed  to  be  in  part 
nerve-feeders.  The  whitest  of  flour  does  not 
make  the  most  nourishing  bread.  The  rich- 
est part  of  the  grain  is  just  beneath  the  chafi", 
making  slightly  yellowish  flour.  Improved 
ways  of  grinding  wheat  now  retain  nearly 
all  of  this  strength  of  the  flour,  some  of 
which  was  formerly  wasted. 

Rye  meal  makes,  by  itself,  a  nourishing 
but  less  spongy  bread  than  wheat.  It  is 
very  largely  eaten  by  people  in  Northern 
Europe.  The  best  way  to  use  it  in  making 
bread  is  to  mix  it  with  an  equal  or  less 
quantity  of  wheat  flour. 

Bread  must  be  properly  raised  to  be 
good.  This  is  done  by  a  fermentation ,  which 
takes  place  in  the  starch  (it  first  becoming 
changed  to  sugar)  of  the  dough,  under  the 
action  of  yeast.  Sugar,  when  it  ferments, 
is  converted  into  alcohol  and  carbonic-acid 
gas.  The  alcohol  is  very  small  in  amount. 
The  carbonic  acid  gas  is  kept  in  by  the 
sticky,  ■pa.sty  gluten,  of  which  good  flour  has 
about  twelve  per  cent.  Thus  the  dough  is 
stretched  or  expanded  into  a  spongy  mass. 
Baking  dries  it  somewhat,  and  makes  it 
more  or  less  crisp,  or  at  least  takes  away 
the  adhesiveness  of  the  dough. 

Faults  of  bread,  which  make  it  less 
wholesome,  as  well  as  less  agreeable,  are 
heaviness,  sourness,  bitterness,  monldines^, 
and  an  excess  of  saline  material-  Heavy,  iil- 
raised,    and    under-baked    bread    is    very 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


109 


tinwliolesoine.  Sotii"  bread  is  so  also.  It  is 
made  by  ^z'^r-raising,  or  by  using  spoiled 
flour.  Bitterness  comes  either  from  bad 
yeast  or  too  much  of  the  yeast  being  used  ; 
mouldiness,  from  the  flour  or  bread  being 
kept  too  long. 

Other  ways  of  raising  bread  are :  using 
salceratus,  bicarbonate  of  potassium,  from 
which  the  carbonic  acid  is  set  free  by 
warmth,  or  by  adding  sour  milk,  containing 
lactic  acid  ;  or  putting  in  the  dough  sour 
milk  and  bicarbonate  of  sodium  ;  or  carbon- 
ate of  ammonium  (smelling  salt)  ;  or  phos- 
phoric acid  and  bicarbonate  of  sodium 
(Horsford's  process).  Still  another  plan  is 
to  make  the  carbonic  acid  as  it  is  made  for 
* '  mineral  water, ' '  and  then  by  pressure  to 
force  it  into  the  dough.  This  constitutes 
"  unfermented  aerated  bread."  When  care- 
fully made,  it  is  very  good,  keeps  well,  and 
can  safely  take  the  place  of  ordinary  bread. 

Hot  fresh  bread  has  a  somewhat  more 
adhesive  or  pasty  quality  than  stale  bread. 
The  gastric  juice,  therefore,  does  not  so 
readily  penetrate  and  digest  it.  Persons 
with  entirely  sound  digestion  have  no  trou- 
ble in  disposing  of  it ;  but  dyspeptics  should 
always  prefer  stale  bread. 

Adulterations  of  flour  are  most  often 
alum,  chalk,  lime,  and  potato  meal.  A  little 
alum  is  frequently  put  in  by  bakers  to  whiten 
the  bread,  as  well  as  to  make  it  weigh  more 
when  sold  by  the  pound.  Much  alum  makes 
it  unwholesome,  irritating  the  stomach  and 
binding  the  bowels.  Potato  meal  is  harm- 
less, but  a  fraud  when  mixed  with  wheat 
flour,  as  it  costs  much  less,  and  is  not  so 
nourishing.     The  microscope  will  detect  it. 

Bran  bread  (as  before  remarked)  is 
rougher  than  that  of  white  flour,  and  so,  by 
stimulating  the  muscular  coat  of  the  bow- 
els, it  helps  to  keep  them  open.  Rye  bread 
is  about  as  nourishing  as  wheat.  Oatmeal 
does  not  rise  so  well  as  wheat  flour,  but  in 
cakes,  porridge,  gruel,  and  grits,  it  makes 
an  admirable  food. 

Buckwheat  is  nourishing,  but  proves  to 
be  rather  better  suited,  in  buckwheat  cakes, 
for  an  occasional  luxury  than  for  a  stand-by 
diet.  Barley  is  not  a  strong  meal,  though 
"John  Barleycorn"  makes  a  very  strong 
drink  when  fermented  and  distilled.    Barley 


water  is  often  a  good  addition  to  milk  when 
it  disagrees  with  young  infants. 

Rice  contains  but  a  moderate  amount  of 
nitrogen,  but  plenty  of  starch,  and  (like 
other  grains)  some  salts  ;  and  it  is  very 
easily  digested.  Chinamen  and  Hindus, 
many  millions  ofthem,  live  chiefly  on  it.  It 
is  soothing  to  tne  bowels,  and  particularly 
suitable  in  cases  of  diarrhoea. 

Corn  (maize),  so  much  used  in  this 
country  and  in  Southern  Europe,  is  fairly 
nitrogenous,  and  is  comparatively  rich  in 
fat.  It  affords  good  and  serviceable  food, 
whether  eaten  from  the  ear  (sugar  corn,  boil- 
ing ears)  or  made  into  bread,  mush  or  gruel. 
It  is  not,  however,  quite  so  easily  digested 
as  wheat,  oatmeal,  or  rice. 

Vegetables. 

Peas  and  Beans  are  highly  nitrogenous, 
besides  containing  a  great  deal  of  starch. 
But  that  their  share  of  salts,  especially  phos- 
phates, is  less,  and  that  they  are  more 
uncertain  of  digestion,  they  would  rank 
along  with  wheat  bread  in  value. 

What  we  call  the  Irish  potato  is  really 
of  American  origin.  Abounding  in  starch, 
potatoes  contain  but  little  nitrogen.  Their 
great  merit  is,  that  they  produce  largely  for 
their  cost ;  they  can  be  made  palatable  by 
cooking,  and  go  a  great  ways  in  bulk  as  food. 

The  Sweet  Potato  is  an  Old  World  plant, 
known  long  before  the  discovery  of  America. 
It  is  harder  to  keep  than  the  round  or  white 
potato,  easily  undergoing  a  sort  of  sugary 
decay.  At  the  best,  it  is  not  quite  so  easily 
digested  as  the  round  potato.  The  yavi  of 
the  Kast  and  West  Indies,  is  a  root  some- 
what analagous  to  the  sweet  potato,  and 
another  similar  root  is  a  good  deal  eaten  in 
the  Sandwich  Islands. 

The  Tomato  is  really  2, fruit.  It  is  more 
nearly  always  wholesome  for  everybody  than 
any  other  of  what  we  call  vegetables.  Tur- 
nips, carrots,  parsnips,  the  onion,  cabbage, 
squash,  and  salsify,  all  rank  below  potatoes 
and  tomatoes  in  digestibility. 

Cauliflowers  and  Cabbages,  are  plants 
of  the  same  species,  differently  developed. 
But  the  cauliflower  is,  under  cultivation, 
much  the  most  tender  and  digestible. 


353 


no 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


Beets,  when  young,  are  very  easily 
digested  ;  quite  otherwise  after  they  grow 
old  and  tough.  Asparagus,  of  the  best 
quality,  is  entirely  wholesome.  Spinach, 
in  good  condition,  is  not  at  all  indigestible. 

Mushrooms  are  strong  and  meat-like 
food,  wholesome  for  most,  but  not  for  all 
people.  The  point  of  importance  is,  to  be 
sure  ///(fya/r  mushrooms.  A  number  of  other 
fioigi  are  safe  and  nourishing,  but  some  are 
very  poisonous.  Never  gather  or  eat  what 
are  called  mushrooms  unless  they  have,  un- 
derneath, pink  gills,  so  called,  and  above, 
as  well  as  on  the  stem,  a  skin  which  can  be 
easily  peeled  off ;  also,  they  have  no  unpleas- 
ant taste  or  smell,  and  grow  not  in  dark 
woods,  but  in  rather  open  fields. 

Celery,  when  white  and  tender,  is,  in 
moderation,  very  wholesome,  either  raw  or 
stewed.  It  represents,  when  eaten  raw,  a 
class  of  food  articles  (the  radish  and  lettuce 
are  others)  of  more  importance  than  is  gener- 
ally appreciated.  We  need,  every  few  days, 
to  take  something  in  its  natural  state,  which 
has    "  never  seen  the  fire." 

Fruits. 

As  a  rule,  fresh  fruits  are  wholesome. 
They  promote  the  natural  action  of  the 
bowels,  and  are  refreshing  and  antiscorbutic. 
When  the  bowels  are  disordered,  as  in  diar- 
rhoea or  dysentery  (except  when  these  result 
from  scurvy  ),they  are  not  suitable. 

All  fruits  are  not  equally  digestible  or 
desirable  for  persons  of  uncertain  health. 
Peaches,  apples,  and  oranges  come  the  nearest 
to  being  good  for  everybody  while  in  health  ; 
and  oranges,  as  well  as  the  finer  and  more 
delicate  kinds  of  grapes,  are  often  with 
advantage  allowed  to  the  sick.  Many  grapes 
have  a  tough  pulp,  which  ought  not  to  be 
swallowed ;  and  the  seeds  never  should  be. 
They,  and  apple  cores,  and  even  cherry- 
stones, are  often  taken  into  the  stomach, 
with  no  harm  following.  But  they  are  not 
digestible,  and  now  and  then  they  collect 
together  and  cause  obstruction.  There  is  a 
queer  little  offset  to  the  large  intestine  into 
which,  in  a  few  instances,  an  apple-seed  or 
some  such  thing  has  found  its  way,  produc- 
ing an  inflammation  ending  in  death. 


The  least  wholesome  of  our  domestic  kinds 
maybe  said  to  be  the  cherry^  and,  doubtful 
for  all  dyspeptics,  also,  pears;  of  foreign 
fruits,  figs  and  pineapples.  Prunes  (partly 
dried  plums), y?^^,  and  dates  are  especially 
laxative  to  the  bowels. 

Stewed  fruits  are  far  less  uniformly  diges- 
tible than  the  same  eaten  fresh,  in  season. 
Prese7-ves  ought  to  be  ruled  out  of  the  diet  of 
dyspeptics,  and  taken,  as  a  rare  indulgence, 
in  small  quantities  only,  by  all.  Lanona'le, 
made  with  the  juice  of  lemons  (not  citric 
acid  of  the  drug-shop),  is  not  only  refresh- 
ing but  beneficial  to  most  persons  in  hot 
weather,  and  when  sick  with  fever.  But, 
in  the  last  case,  irritability  of  the  stomach 
or  bowels  may  sometimes  prevent  its  use. 

Canned  fruits,  put  up  with  skill  and  care, 
may  approach  very  nearly  to  fresh  fruits  in 
wholesomeness ;  but  the  skill  and  care  actu- 
ally used  are  often  far  from  perfect.  More- 
over, of  the  different  materials  employed  for 
keeping  fruit  or  other  food  for  a  long  time, 
the  safest  and  best,  undoubtedly,  \s glass. 

Eggs. 

There  is  excellent  nourishment,  mostly 
albuminoid,  but  with  a  small  amount  of  fat 
(in  the  yolk)  in  eggs.  There  is,  of  course, 
no  truth  in  the  popular  saying,  that  "an 
^g<g  is  as  good  as  a  pound  of  meat."  In 
proportion  to  its  weight,  an  0.^%  is  equally 
nourishing  with  meat;  that  is  all.  It  is  of 
great  consequence  that  eggs  shall  be  fresh 
when  eaten. 

Meats. 

All  parts  of  the  Animal  Kingdom  furnish 
food  for  men  in  some  quarters  of  the  earth. 
Vertebrates  are  represented  abundantly;  in 
viammals  (as  the  ox  and  sheep),  birds,  rep- 
tiles, (^.  ^.  the  terrapin),  and  yf^/z^fj-.  Mol- 
luscs, as  oysters  and  clams,  are  favorites 
with  many.  Articulates  are  familiar  in  the 
lobster,  crab,  prawn,  and  shrimp. 

Beef  is  the  strongest  kind  of  meat,  the 
most  concentrated  albuminoid  food.  It  is, 
also,  when  tender,  as  digestible  as  any  other 
article  of  diet.  Many  dyspeptics  eat  only 
beef  and  bread  every  day.  A  larger  range, 
however,  would  nearly  always  be  better  for 
them.  Signs  of  good  quality  in  beef  are 
these:   it  should  be  of  a  fresh  red  color, 


354 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


lit 


fielther  pale-pink  nor  dark-purple ;  marble- 
veined  lightly  with  fat ;  not  wet,  but  firm  to 
the  touch ;  with  little  odor,  none  unpleasant ; 
should  shrink  but  little  in  cooking.  If 
tested  with  litmus  paper,  its  juice  will  show 
acidity  by  reddening  it. 

Veal  is  not  nearly  so  easily  digested  as 
beef.  Some  persons,  not  usually  dyspeptic, 
have  to  avoid  it  altogether.  A  bad  fraud  in 
some  city  markets  is  the  sale  of  too  young 
veal  ("bob"  veal).  It  ought  never  to  be 
eaten  before  it  is  four  or  five  weeks  old. 

Mutton  is  very  nearly  (some  analysts 
say  quite)  as  strong  a  nitrogenous  food  as 
beef,  and  scarcely  less  digestible  with  some 
persons.  Kither  kind  of  meat  may  be  tough 
or  tender,  and  so  may  give  the  stomach,  as 
well  as  the  teeth,  more  labor  in  disposing  of 
it.  Tough  meat  does  not  pay ;  don't  buy  it. 
Internal  work  in  digestion  has  to  be  econo- 
mized or  supported  like  external  work,  or 
the  strength  goes  down. 

Lamb  is  more  desirable  every  way  than 
old  mutton.  It  seldom,  or  never,  comes  to 
our  markets  too  young. 

Pork  should  always  be  avoided  by  dys- 
peptics and  by  persons  of  uncertain  peptic 
powers.  ^// rules  about  diet  are  intened  for 
these.  Healthy  people  can  digest  almost 
anything,  except  bob  veal  and  very  ancient 
knife-resisting  mutton,  or  leathery  skirt  of 
beef;  anything,  in  short,  that  their  teeth  will 
chew.  Fresh  pork,  for  the  hearty,  active 
man  or  woman,  or  roast  pig,  is  good  and 
nourishing;  but  it  must  always  be  well  done. 
All  hog-meat  must  be  cooked  through  (not 
only  on  the  surface)  to  destroy  any  possible 
parasites  which  it  may  contain.  Of  these, 
trichi7iee  are  the  worst,  being  dangerous  to 
life ;  but  they  are  certain  to  be  killed,  and 
thus  made  harmless,  by  thoroughly  cooking 
the  meat.  Smoking  it  without  cooking  will 
not  make  it  safe.     Freezing  it  may  do  so. 

Birds  have  weaker,  less  nitrogenous 
meat  than  mammals,  but  generally  more 
tender  and  delicate.  Most  digestible  of 
domestic  birds  are  the  turkey,  chicken,  and 
guinea-fowl ;  less  so  the  duck  (though  often 
very  good),  and  least  fit  for  doubtful  stom- 
achs, the  goose.  Pigeons  are  moderately 
digestible,  but  one  soon  tires  of  them.     Our 


wild  partridges,  prairie  chickens,  and  grouse 
(some  of  which  are  called  pheasants,  but 
there  are  no  true  pheasants  native  to  this 
country),  and  quails,  are  very  good  game- 
birds  for  the  table.  So  are  reed-birds 
(favorites  for  invalids  and  convalescents) , 
woodcock,  snipe,  and  canvas -back  ducks. 
The  turkey  is  perhaps  our  most  valuable 
original  contribution  to  the  diet  of  mankind, 
unless  we  except  the  potato  and  maize. 

Fish,  of  some  kinds,  are  consumed  in 
almost  all  parts  of  the  world.  Thousands 
of  people  depend  upon  fishing  for  a  living. 
There  is  still  less  nitrogenous  material  in 
fish  than  in  birds'  meat ;  some,  as  the  sal- 
mon, have  a  good  deal  of  fat.  A  larger  pro- 
portion of  the  phosphates  (salts  containing 
phosphorus)  is  present  in  their  substance 
than  in  land  animals.  Some  persons 
imagine  that  fish  are  therefore  especially  a 
brain-making  diet.  But  there  is  enough  of 
the  phosphate  in  ordinary  meat  and  bread 
for  any  one's  brains,  if  he  can  appropriate  and 
assimilate  them  well.  Fresh  fish,  nicely 
cooked,  are  wholesome  and  nourishing. 

Of  articulates,  lobsters,  crabs,  prawns, 
and  shrimps  have  been  already  mentioned. 
Lobsters,  at  least,  when  fresh,  are  not  un- 
wholesome for  most  people.  Remember, 
everything  taken  out  of  the  water  spoils  soon 
after  it  dies.  The  place  to  enjoy  lobsters, 
crabs,  and  shrimps  safely  is  at  the  seashore. 

Molluscs,  as  oysters  and  clams,  are 
nowhere  more  appreciated  than  in  America. 
Our  oysters  are  probably  the  best  in  the 
world ;  although  in  tropical  waters  they 
grow  a  great  deal  larger.  Clams  are  tougher, 
and  much  less  digestible ;  their  soup  can  be 
enjoyed,  however,  without  risking  the  hard 
clam  itself. 

Convalescents  can  begin  with  good  sound 
oysters  before  they  dare  venture  upon  more 
solid  food.  One  of  their  virtues  is  that  they 
can  be  cooked  in  so  many  ways.  Raw,  they 
are  digestible  by  the  hungry  man  almost 
always.  Roasted  in  the  shell,  they  are  man- 
ageable by  every  stomach  that  has  any  gastric 
juice  in  it ;  no  solid  is  more  digestible. 
Panned,  steamed,  stewed,  broiled  they  are 
digestible  and  wholesome.  Fried  oysters 
must  be,  with  the  dyspeptic,  quite  forbidden. 


355 


112 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


Time  Table  .for  the  Housekeeper. 


Mode  of 

Time  of 

Time  of 

Preparation 

Cooking 

Digestion 

H.  M. 

H.  M. 

Raw 

2  50 

Raw 

•        «        • 

I  50 

Boiled 

15  to  30 

2   30 

Boiled 

I  00 

2  30 

Boiled 

45 

3  45 

Roasted 

*25 

3  00 

Broiled 

15 

3  00 

Fried 

15 

4  00 

Boiled 

2  00 

3  45 

Boiled 

430 

4  00 

Baked 

45 

3  15 

Baked 

I  00 

3  30 

Melted 

.   .    • 

3  30 

Boiled 

I  GO 

4  30 

Boiled 

1-2  00 

2  30 

Baked 

45 

2  30 

Boiled 

I  00 

3  15 

Raw 

.   .   . 

3  30 

Fricasseed 

I  00 

3  45 

Boiled 

*I5 

2  00 

Baked 

30 

2  45 

Roasted 

I  30 

4  00 

Roasted 

I  00 

4  50 

Boiled 

I  00 

3  00 

Boiled 

10 

3  30 

Boiled 

3 

3  00 

Fried 

5 

3  30 

Boiled 

I  00 

4  00 

Boiled 

*  20 

2  30 

Hashed 

30 

2  30 

Boiled 

2  00 

Roast 

*25 

3  15 

Broiled 

20 

3  00 

Boiled 

1-2  00 

3  00 

Stewed 

5 

3  30 

Boiled 

I  00 

3  00 

Soused 

I  00 

Roast 

*30 

5  15 

Boiled 

*25 

430 

Fried 

4  15 

Broiled 

20 

3  15 

Boiled 

30 

3  30 

Baked 

45 

3  30 

Roasted 

45 

2  30 

Boiled 

20 

I  00 

Fried 

25 

4  00 

Boiled 

I  00 

4  00 

Boiled 

2  00 

3  00 

Boiled 

t3  3o 

3  30 

Boiled 

1-2  00 

2  30 

Boiled 

130 

2  00 

Fresh 

I  00 

2  30 

Canned 

30 

2  30 

Fried 

30 

I  30 

Roasted 

*  20 

2  30 

Boiled 

45 

3  30 

Broiled 

20 

4  00 

Apples,  sour,  hard 

Apples,  sweet  and  rnellow     .   . 

Asparagus  

Beans (pod)    

Beans  with  green  Com  .... 

Beef 

Beefsteak 

Beefsteak 

Beets,  young 

Beets,  old 

Bread,  Corn 

Bread,  Wheat 

Butter 

Cabbage  

Cauliflower 

Cake,  Sponge 

Carrot,  Orange 

Cheese,  old 

Chicken 

Codfish,  dry  and  whole      .    .    . 

Custard  (one  quart) 

Duck,  tame 

Duck,  wild 

Dumpling,  Apple 

Eggs,  hard 

Eggs,  soft 

Eggs 

Fowls,  domestic,  roasted  or  ,    . 

Lamb 

Meat  and  vegetables 

Milk 

Mutton 

Mutton 

Onions 

Oysters 

Parsnips 

Pigs'  Feet 

Pork 

Pork 

Pork,  raw  or 

Pork 

Potatoes 

Potatoes 

Potatoes 

Rice         

Sausage   

Soup,  Vegetable 

Soup,  Chicken 

Soup,  Oyster  or  mutton      .    .    . 

Spinach 

Tapioca 

Tomatoes 

Tomatoes 

Trout,  Salmon,  fresh,  boiled  or 

Turkey,  boiled  or 

Turnips 

Veal 


*  Minutes  to  the  pound.  f  Mutton  Soup. 

The  time  given  is  the  general  average;  the  time  will  vary  slightly  with  the  quality  of  the  article. 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


113 


THE  HOMEOPATHIC  TREATMENT 


The  hocieopathic  treatment  given  in  this 
book  is  by  a  homeopathic  physician  of  over 
forty  years'  active  experience.  He  is  a 
member  of  the  American  Institute  of  Homeo- 
pathy and  its  Society  of  Seniors.  A  mem- 
ber and  Kx- President  of  a  State  Medical 
and  several  other  medical  societies ;  Ex- 
Vice- President  of  a  State  Surgical  and 
Gynecological  Society ;  Honorary  member 
of  two  State  Societies  ;  an  author  and  writer 
for  medical  journals  for  over  thirty-five 
years,  and  his  writings  are  eagerly  read 
everywhere.  He  says:  "Your  readers 
should  understand  that,  if  they  wish  for 
reliable  remedies,  they  must  purchase  them 
of  some  reliable  homeopathic  pharmacist  or 
reliable  physician ;  for  homeopathic  reme- 
dies kept  in  drug  stores  are  liable  to  be 
more  or  less  injurious  by  the  odors  that  per- 
vade the  store,  and  their  sales  are  so  infre- 
quent the  remedies  are  liable  to  be  wholly 
or  partly  useless  by  long  standing. ' ' 

In  the  following  diseases,  it  is  best  to 
give  the  third  decimal  attenuation,  unless 
specified  in  that  particular  disease,  and  they 
can  be  bought  in  liquid  or  globule  form  or 
a  few  in  a  powdered  form.  No.  35  globules 
is  a  convenient  form  to  use ;  two,  three  or 
four  globules,  at  a  dose  ;  a  dose  once  in 
from  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  to  once  or  twice 
a  day. 

If  liquids  are  given,  two  or  three  drops 
in  one-half  glass  of  water,  a  teaspoonful  at 
a  dose,  repeated  or  given  same  as  globules. 

Remember,  it  is  not  the  amount  of  medi- 
cine given  that  cures,  but  the  right  kind. 

Much  has  been  said  and  written  about  the 
homeopathic  dose,  but  a  dose  just  large 
enough  to  cure  may  be  considered  a  homeo- 
pathic dose. 

Abortions. — To  avoid  them  there  should 
be  no  active  mental  excitement.  The  use 
or  smell  of  turpentine,  even  in  paint,  is  very 
dangerous.  If  threatened  from  fright.  Acon- 
ite is  the  remedy.  Belladonna  if  there  is 
headache,  red  face  and  hemorrhage  of  bright 
blood  ;  Cinnamon  for  hemorrhage.  If  abor- 
tion is  feared  with  weak  bearing  down  sen- 
sation,  Helonias,   second  decimal,   a  dose 


night  and  morning  or  several  times  a  day. 
If  from  injury.  Arnica  is  the  remedy. 

Abscess. — If  for  any  threatened  abscess 
and  pain.  Belladonna;  then  give  Hypo- 
phosphite  of  lime  first  decimal  trituration. 
If  suppuration  is  feared  give  Hepar  sul.  ; 
as  high  as  the  thirteenth  attenuation  is 
better  than  lower  to  hasten  suppuration. 
At  first,  bathe  with  tincture  of  Myrrh  and 
add  it  to  poultices  if  used. 

Acne  —  Flesh=Worms  —  Blackheads — 
Comedones. — This  is  a  skin-disease,  occur- 
ring about  the  face  and  chest  of  young  people, 
and  very  disfiguring  in  appearance ;  it  is  situ- 
ated in  the  oil-glands  of  the  skin ,  the  function 
of  which  is  to  lubricate  the  hair  ;  the  gland 
becomes  filled  by  the  secretion,  which  dries, 
and  by  its  irritating  presence  sets  up  more 
or  less  inflammation  in  the  little  gland  and 
its  duct ;  as  the  production  of  the  oily  ma- 
terial progresses,  the  accumulation  causes 
the  orifice  of  the  duct  to  rise  slightly  above 
the  level  of  the  skin,  and  dust  adhering  to 
the  projecting  cheesy  material,  gives  to  the 
disease  the  characteristic  appearance  whence 
it  derives  its  name.  The  disease,  though 
harmless  in  its  nature,  may  last  a  long  time, 
as  fresh  spots  often  appear  as  the  old  ones 
are  healing. 

Treatment  consists  of  careful  regulation 
of  the  general  health,  pressing  out  the  little 
masses  as  they  accumulate,  and  thorough 
cleanliness.  Tarsoap  and  plenty  of  friction 
of  the  skin  should  be  used. 

Remedies. — Give  Bromide  of  Arsenic, 
sixth  decimal,  four  times  a  day  at  first,  then 
twice  or  once  a  day  is  almost  a  specific. 

After-Pains. — ^They  are  rarely  trouble- 
some after  a  first  confinement,  but  are  apt  to 
increase  in  severity  at  each  succeeding  one. 
After-pains  are,  in  moderation,  salutary,  and 
are  caused  by  the  efforts  of  the  womb  to  attain 
that  properly  contracted  condition  on  which 
the  woman's  safety  depends.  If  they  are 
very  severe,  it  is  generally  owing  to  the 
presence  of  clotted  blood,  which  must  be 
expelled  before  they  moderate.  A  constant, 
unintermitting  after-pain  coming  on  very 


3T  R 


357 


114 


THE  FAMIL  Y  DOCTOR 


soon  after  the  termination  of  labor,  is  often 
SN^mptomatic  of  internal  flooding,  and  should 
be  attended  to  accordingly. 

Treatment — Omit  bandage  to  prevent, 
aud  give  Arnica  after  serious  labor.  Pul- 
satilla, pains  in  back  and  abdomen.  Caulo- 
phyllum  for  labor-like  pains.  Cimicifuga 
if  the  pains  are  in  the  back  and  extend  down 
the  limbs. 

Ague. — To  stop  chills,  give  a  cup  of  hot 
cofiee,  no  sugar,  no  milk,  and  the  juice  of  a 
lemon  added.  Drink  when  the  chill  is  be- 
ginning. It  is  better  than  the  highly  lauded 
quinine,  and  has  no  injurious  effects  like 
quinine.  The  remedy  to  take  the  place  of 
quinine  is  Picrate  of  Ammonia,  sixth 
decimal,  every  two  hours,  or  once  or  twice 
a  day  according  to  the  severity  of  the  case. 
The  only  way  to  perfectly  cure  it  is  to  give 
the  truly  indicated  remedy  considerably 
attenuated  and  not  too  often  repeated.  Apis 
mel,  chill  begins  in  front  of  chest  and  abdo- 
men at  three  or  four  p.  m.  Thirsty  during 
chill,  can't  bear  a  warm  room  during  chill  ; 
joints  and  muscles  sore. 

Arnica. — Morning  or  evening,  much 
yawning  and  stretching  before  chill.  Does 
not  shake,  shivers  only. 

Arsetiiaim. — All  times,  mostly  at  one  or 
two  p.  M.  Alternation  of  heat  and  chill ; 
better  from  warmth.  During  fever  very 
restless,  great  heat,  unquenchable  thirst, 
drinks  but  little  at  a  time  and  often.  Dur- 
ing sweat,  drinks  large  quantities. 

Camphor. — During  chill,  icy  coldness  all 
over,  but  will  not  remain  covered. 

Capsicum. — Chill  begins  in  back. 

China. — Chill  on  certain  days,  regular 
once  in  two  or  three  or  six  days.  Violent 
chill,  no  thirst.  Liver  and  spleen  swollen 
and  painful. 

Eupatorium  Per/. — Begins  in  back  seven 
to  nine  a.  m.  Thirst  for  water,  but  it  causes 
vomiting.    Bitter  vomiting  at  close  of  chill. 

Ignatia. — Any  time,  most  often  in  even- 
ing. Thirst  for  large  quantities  of  water 
during  chill,  no  thirst  during  fever. 

Ipecacuayiha. — Any  hour,  generally  eleven 
A.M.  During  chill  worse  from  warmth. 
Chill  lessened  by  drinking. 

Natru7n  Muriaticum. — Chill  every  day 
at  ten  to   eleven   a.m.     Dreads   the  chill. 


Before  chill,  thirst  for  laige  quantities  of 
water.  Violent  chill  begins  in  hands  and 
feet.  Lips  and  nails  blue.  Fever  long  and 
severe,  with  thirst  and  headache.  Profuse 
perspiration.  Fever  blisters  around  the 
mouth. 

Nux  Vomica. — To  be  given  if  drugs 
have  been  taken.  Chill  generally  in  even- 
ing or  early  morning,  severe  and  long. 
Thirsty,  worse  from  drinking  Must  be 
covered  up,  but  the  warmth  does  not  re- 
lieve. 

Alcoholism  and  Its  Treatment.  — 
The  results  of  the  abuse  of  alcohol  upon 
the  system  are  caused  both  by  its  immediate 
local  action  upon  the  stomach,  and  its  re- 
mote effects  upon  the  various  organs  of  the 
body  after  its  absorption  into  the  circulation . 
In  the  former  case,  it  acts  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  any  other  irritant,  causing  inflamma- 
tion of  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  digestive 
organs,  and  leading  to  inflammation  of  the 
mouth,  throat,  stomach,  etc.,  each  of  which 
should  receive  consideration  in  proper  treat- 
ment; but  its  action  upon  the  nervous  and  cir- 
culatory systems,  results  in  well-defined  dis- 
turbances, dangerous  not  only  to  the  life  of 
the  affected  individual,  but  perilous  to  all 
who  may  come  in  contact  with  him.  Vari- 
ous conditions,  which  may  be  classified  as 
acute  and  chronic^  may  occur,  the  result  of 
this  unfortunate  habit.  Of  the  former,  the 
ordinary  manifestations  of  intoxication  are 
but  too  well  known ;  the  higher  intellectual 
faculties  are  in  abeyance,  and  the  more  pro- 
found the  intoxication,  either  from  the 
amount  ingested  or  the  greater  susceptibility 
of  the  patient,  the  more  the  brutal  and 
animal  characteristics  become  unmasked. 
Happily,  the  poison  is  volatile,  and  the  re- 
sulting nausea,  vomiting,  and  stuporous 
sleep  give  nature  an  opportunity  of  elim- 
inating it  from  the  system,  and  the  patient 
awakens  sober,  but  with  headache,  foul 
stomach,  and  a  nervous  system  more  or  less 
shattered  by  the  indulgence. 

Treatment. — For  the  morning  vomit- 
ing, Arsenicum.  The  general  condition  is 
best  treated  by  Nux  Vomica ;  and  in  the 
acute  attacks  Hyoscyamus  or  Belladonna 
should  be  given. 


358 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


115 


The  potent  remedy  for  this  disease  is 
Cannabis  Indica,  tincture;  drop  doses  once 
in  two  or  fourh  ours.  Nux  vomica  for 
stomach  symptoms  following. 

Alopecia — Falling  of  tlie  Hair — Bald- 
ness. — Falling  of  the  hair  occurs  normally 
in  advanced  age,  and  is  then  accompanied  by 
wasting  of  the  hair-follicles,  and  is  not  bene- 
fited by  treatment.  At  an  earlier  period  of 
life  it  takes  place  as  the  sequel  of  many  acute 
diseases,  notably  fevers  ;  in  the  latter  case 
the  follicles,  as  a  rule,  are  not  destroyed, 
the  hair  reappearing  at  first  very  fine  in  tex- 
ture, but  in  time  becoming  coarser. 

Treatment-. — Bathe  head  occasionally, 
with  very  dilute  crude  Petroleum.  Sulphur 
should  be  given  at  first,  then  Hepar  sul.  or 
Rhus  tox. 

Anaemia— Lack  of  Blood. — ^This  term 
is  applied  to  a  condition  in  which  there  is 
deficiency  of  the  red-blood  globules,  and 
consequently  a  thin  and  pale  state  of  the 
blood.  It  results  from  any  prolonged 
drain  upon  the  system,  such  as  diarrhea, 
profuse  discharges  of  fluids,  either  from 
hemorrhages  or  discharges  from  abscesses  ; 
from  acute  disease  in  which  the  vital  powers 
have  been  violently  assailed,  or  from  chronic 
wasting  diseases,  such  as  consumption, 
Bright's  disease,  etc. 

Trkatment. — As  this  disease  is  the  result 
of  some  local  disease,  it  is  necessary  to  re- 
move that  disease.  Many  times  it  is  some- 
thing that  can  be  removed  by  Calcarea  carb. 
or  Pulsatilla.  As  iron  is  so  liable  to  pro- 
duce such  unpleasant  results  following  its 
use,  as  disease  of  the  bones  or  stomach,  but 
more  especially  a  strong  tendency  to  diseases 
of  the  lungs,  a  cough  very  hard  to  cure  but 
more  liable  to  end  in  consumption,  its  use 
should  be  substituted  by  a  vegetable  iron, 
Sanguis  draconis.  This  is  best  given 
dissolved  (the  gum)  in  Port  or  California 
wine,  shaken  till  dissolved,  and  a  table- 
spoonful,  three  or  four  times  a  day. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  of  gum  in  one  pint 
of  wine.  The  wine  can  be  renewed  once  or 
twice. 

Angina  Pectoris,  or  5pasm  of  the  Heart, 
is  one  of  the  most  formidable  and  painful  of 
the  affections  which  terminate  human  life. 
It  occurs  more  generally  after  middle  age, 
and  is  more  frequent  in  men  than  women. 


Symptoms^ — The  attack  is  characterized 
by  the  sudden  onset  of  agonizing  pain ,  re- 
ferred to  the  center  of  the  chest,  or  a  little 
to  the  left  side  of  it,  passing  through  to  the 
spine,  up  to  the  left  shoulder,  and  down  the 
arm  of  the  same  side  even  to  the  extremities 
of  the  fingers.  Sometimes  both  arms  are 
affected.  Along  with  the  pain,  which  is 
always  said  to  be  agony  beyond  description, 
there  is  a  sensation  as  of  instant  impending 
death.  The  paroxysm  ceases  as  suddenly 
as  it  comes  on.  Angina  pectoris  may  be 
preceded  by  warning  symptoms,  palpitation, 
shortness  of  breathing,  indigestion,  or  it  may 
come  on  unheralded  by  any  of  these,  gener- 
ally during  some  slight  exertion,  as  walking 
up  hill,  or  during  strong  mental  emotion, 
but  not  unfrequently  in  the  night,  after  the 
first  sleep. 

Treatment. — An  attack  of  angina  pec- 
toris is  an  emergency  afiecting  life,  to  which 
there  are  few  equal ;  full,  instant  stimula- 
tion is  demanded,  and  the  first  agent  of  the 
kind  at  hand  must  be  used,  till  other  reme- 
dies and  proper  assistance  can  be  procured. 
A  glass  of  spirits  and  water,  as  hot  and 
strong  as  it  can  be  swallowed,  must  at  once 
be  given.  A  strong  mustard-poultice  is  at 
once  to  be  applied  to  the  front  of  the  chest, 
the  same  being  placed  between  the  should- 
ers, and  hot  applications  made  to  the  feet. 
If  the  paroxysm  be  not  subdued  in  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  the  stimulant  is  to  be  repeated  ; 
and  this  again  after  the  same  interval,  if 
requisite.  Spirits  have  been  mentioned,  as 
being  the  most  readily  procurable  ;  but  when 
ether  and  sal- volatile,  either  one  or  other,  or 
both,  are  at  hand,  they  are  preferable,  and 
must  be  given  in  just  so  much  water  as  will 
permit  of  their  being  swallowed — a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  each.  It  is  needless,  perhaps,  to  say 
that  all  these  measures  of  an  emergency  in 
which  not  a  moment  is  to  be  lost  are  while 
waiting  the  arrival  of  the  medical  attendant, 
and  that  to  him  must  be  intrusted  the  direc- 
tion of  that  regulated  mode  of  life  which 
must  ever  be  adopted  after  an  attack  of  this 
disease. 

Remedies.  —  Belladonna  for  sharp 
pains,  red  face.  Gelsemium,  sharp  pains, 
difficult  swallowing  or  talking,  dark  red 
face,  mahogany  color.  Glonoine,  rapid 
pulse,    severe    pains,    better   lying  down. 


359 


xi6 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


Veratrum  viride,  quick  pulse,  nausea.  Amyl 
nitrite,  one  part,  alcohol,  three  parts,  given 
by  inhalation  during  attack,  will  give  relief 
and  no  headache.  A  new  remedy,  Phaseolus 
nana,  introduced  recently  by  Dr.  A.  M. 
Gushing,  Springfield,  Mass.,  is  giving  won- 
derful results  in  various  diseases  of  the 
heart  ;  it  is  hoped  it  will  prove  beneficial  in 
this  dangerous  disease. 

Aphonia — Loss  of  Voice — Hoarseness. 
— Loss  of  voice  may  be  owing  to  inflamma- 
tory swelling,  either  acute  or  chronic,  or  to 
ulceration  of  the  lining  membrane  of  the 
larynx  to  paralysis,  or  to  hysterical  afiec- 
tion.  Coming  on  suddenly,  accompanied 
with  fever,  pain  in  the  larynx  and  upper 
part  of  the  throat,  increased  on  swallowing, 
with  difficulty  of  breathing,  the  above  symp- 
tom must  be  regarded  with  some  apprehen- 
sion, as  one  of  the  concomitants  of  a  rapidly 
fatal  disease,  aciite  laryngitis.  Loss  of  voice, 
however,  frequently  occurs  quite  uncon- 
nected with  the  other  symptoms  mentioned, 
and  is  then  not  to  be  so  seriously  regarded. 
Many  persons  are  liable  to  it  after  exposure 
to  night  or  foggy  air,  or  after  much  or  loud 
talking.  Persons  living  in  damp  houses 
suffer  from  this  form  of  aphonia,  which  is 
probably  owing  to  the  thickening  or  great 
susceptibility  of  the  laryngeal  membrane. 

Remedies. — Belladonna  for  sore  inflamed 
throat.  Kali  bichromicum,  with  much 
hoarseness  and  accumulation  of  stringy  mu- 
cus in  throat.  Sanguinaria,  for  a  catarrhal 
condition.  Phosphorus  without  much  sore- 
ness. 

Aphthae,  or  Thrush. — Thrush  is  more  es- 
pecially a  disease  of  early  infancy,  affecting 
the  mouth  and  throat, the  lining  membrane  of 
which,  in  this  disease,  appears  as  if  sprinkled 
over  with  bits  of  milk-curd .  Recent  researches 
have  discovered  that  upon  these  patches  a 
filiform  description  of  minute  fungus  is 
developed,  which  probably  finds  a  congenial 
habitat  in  the  disordered  secretions  which 
are  the  main  feature  of  the  disease  :  excess 
of  acid,  and  irritation  of  the  mucous  lining 
of  the  bowls,  always  existing.  The  disease 
is  not  generally  serious  ;  it  is  accompanied 
by  slight  fever  and  drowsiness,  and  passes 
off  in  eight  or  ten  days;  during  this  time, 
however,  it  interferes  with  the  child  taking 
the  breast  properly.     Aphthae  is  very  often 


the  result  of  improper  feeding  with  bread 
and  other  things  unfit  for  the  infant  stomach. 
Remedies.  —  Prevented  by  keeping  the 
child  clean  and  not  too  warmly  dressed.  Ar- 
senicum, a  livid  bluish  appearance  of  the 
mouth, with  weakeness  and  diarrhea.  Borax, 
if  the  mouth  is  very  sore.  Bromide  of  Potash 
triturated  with  equal  parts  of  sugar  ;  a  small 
powder  every  two  hours,  especially  if  the 
mouth  is  dry.  Bryonia,  if  the  child  will 
not  nurse  till  the  mouth  is  moistened. 
Carbo.  veg.,  mouth  hot,  discharges  sour. 
Chamomilla,  if  child  is  nervous  and  has  to 
be  carried.  Mercurius,  mouth  white,  much 
saliva,  offensive  smell. 

Asthma  is  an  affection  of  the  chest,  char- 
acterized by  distressing  inability  of  the  person 
suffering  from  it  to  inspire  sufficient  air  to  fill 
the  lungs.  The  term,  although  applied  by 
medical  men  to  a  defined  disease,  is  used 
popularly  to  denote  any  difficulty  of  breath- 
ing, from  whatever  cause  occurring,  whether 
from  disease  of  the  heart,  or  any  of  the  varied 
affections  of  the  lungs.  Asthma,  although 
a  nervous  or  spasmodic  affection,  is  very 
frequently  connected  with  actual  changes  in 
the  lungs  themselves.  Asthmatic  fits  come 
on  at  irregular  intervals ;  for  several  days, 
or  rather  nights,  successively,  the  patient  is 
attacked,  and  a  considerable  time  may  then 
elapse  before  he  again  suffers  ;  not  that  a 
regular  asthmatic  is  in  the  interval  entirely 
free  from  uneasiness,  for  there  is  generally 
some  slight  oppression  of  the  breathing, 
liable  to  be  aggravated  by  slight  causes. 
Changes  in  the  weather,  peculiarity  of  situa- 
tion, errors  in  diet,  anxiety,  fatigue,  mental 
excitement,  ma}''  any  of  them  induce  a  par- 
oxysm of  asthma  in  the  predisposed. 

Remedies. — Arsenicum,  worse  at  night, 
patient  has  to  sit  up  in  bed,  almost  constant 
cough,  cold  perspiration.  Carbo.  veg., 
stomach  full  of  wind  ;  belching  of  wind 
gives  brief  relief.  Ipecac,  constant  loose 
cough,  causes  gagging  but  no  raising  of 
phlegm.  Lachesis,  worse  after  sleep,  after 
eating,  or  moving  the  arms,  or  touching  the 
throat  outside.  Nux  vomica  for  persons 
who  drink  much  tea  or  coffee  or  liquors,  or 
have  taken  large  doses  of  drugs  ;  irritable, 
much  wind  in  stomach, costive.  Opium, long, 
slow  snoring,  breathing.  Better  in  cold  air ; 
worse  after  eating, drinking  wine  or  smoking. 


360 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


117 


Bandaging — Many  times  a  plaster  of 
ssdhesive  or  sticking  plaster,  rightly  put  on, 
■s  best ;  for  it  will  keep  in  position,  and  stay 
a  long  time. 

Bilious  Diseases. — For  vomiting  of  bitter 
bile,  Nux  Vomica,  a  dose  once  in  fifteen  or 
thirty  minutes  till  relieved,  and  especially 
if  it  is  caused  by  unripe  fruit.  Pulsatilla, 
if  it  is  caused  by  greasy  food.  Veratrum 
alb.,  if  severe  vomiting,  purging,  cold 
clammy  skin,  cramps  in  bowels  ;  dose  every 
five  or  ten  minutes,  till  better.  Camphor, 
cold  and  collapsed  with  the  vomiting. 
Cuprum,  great  cramping  in  bowels  and 
limbs. 

Diseases  of  the  Bladder. — Many  of  the 
diseases  and  disorders  of  the  bladder  are 
brought  on  by  carelessness,  neglect,  or  too 
great  subservience  to  the  conventional  re- 
straints of  society  ;  those  persons,  especially, 
who  habitually  or  necessarily  are  frequently 
compelled  to  restrain  the  desire,  and  forego 
for  a  time  the  relief  of  emptying  a  dis- 
tended bladder,  are  liable  to  affections  of 
the  organ.  In  early  childhood,  but  some- 
times even  beyond  puberty,  the  bladder  ha- 
bitually empties  itself  during  sleep  ;  night 
after  night  this  occurs,  and  proves  a  serious 
annoyance  and  expense  too,  from  the  con- 
sequent destruction  of  bedding.  The  habit 
or  disorder  is  sometimes  extremely  difl&cult, 
if  not  quite  impossible,  to  eradicate.  The 
regular  use  of  the  cold  hip-bath  every  morn- 
ing is  one  of  the  most  efl&cient  remedies. 

Rkmedies. — Aconite,  inflammation  and 
strangury  from  colds.  Cantharis,  painful 
even  bloody  urine,  or  suppression,  especi- 
ally during  fevers.  For  stoppage,  or  very 
painful  urination  in  old  people  ;  there  may 
be  bloody  mucus  or  pus.  Polytrichium 
juniperum  tincture,  five  or  ten  drops  at  a 
dose  every  fifteen  minutes  for  a  few  doses, 
then  every  two,  three,  four,  or  six  hours  ; 
or  a  decoction  by  steeping  it  in  water  and 
half-teaspoonful  doses  given.  Hyoscyamus, 
for  weakeness,  dribbling,  or  inability  to 
retain  the  urine  in  elderly  people.  For 
children  or  young  people  who  wet  the  bed 
the  third  dilution  of  the  so-called  muUen- 
oil,  made  from  the  buds  and  blossoms  of 
the  mullen,  and  introduced  to  the  profes- 
sion by  Dr.  A.  M.  Cushing  of  Springfield, 
Mass.,  is  nearly  an  infallible  cure. 

36 


Breast. — Inflammation  and  Abscess  of  the 
Breast. — The  disease  from  which  the  female 
breast  most  frequently  suffers  is  inflamma- 
tion ,  followed  by  abscess .  This  may  occur  at 
any  time,  but  most  commonly  it  is  within  the 
first  few  weeks  after  childbirth.  Generally 
within  twenty-four  hours  after  the  birth  of 
a  child,  the  breasts  become  turgid  and 
slightly  hot,  from  the  increased  flow  of  blood 
which  is  directed  toward  them  to  supply  the 
secretion  of  milk.  In  this  excited  condi- 
tion, and  indeed  during  suckling  generally, 
they  are  peculiarly  liable  to  become  inflamed; 
cold,  any  slight  bruise,  such  as  that  from  a 
bone  in  the  stays,  over-distension  with  milk, 
or  even  mental  excitement,  may,  any  of 
them,  give  rise  to  the  inflammation  which 
ends  in  abscess.  If  from  flatness  of  the 
nipple,  weakness  of  the  child,  or  any  other 
cause,  the  milk  is  not  well  drawn  out, 
measures  which  will  relieve  must  be  adopted. 
Various  forms  of  breast-pumps  are  used,  the 
suction  being  made  through  them,  either 
mechanically  or  by  the  mouth .  Some  nurses 
have  the  art  of  drawing  the  breasts  with  the 
mouth  more  thoroughly  than  any  instrument, 
and  when  such  aid  can  be  procured  it  is  right 
to  make  use  of  it. 

Symptoms. — The  first  symptoms  of  threat- 
ened abscess  are  pain  and  knotty  hardness 
in  the  part ;  if  the  process  goes  on  un- 
checked, there  is  much  throbbing  and  sen- 
sation ot  weight,  the  skin  'over  the  part 
affected  becomes  red,  gradually  thins,  and 
at  last  gives  way,  allowing  the  escape  of  the 
matter,  occasionally  mixed  with  milk.  Some 
amount  of  fever  accompanies  the  progress  of 
the  afiection.  After  the  discharge  of  the 
matter  the  abscess  may  quickly  heal,  or  it 
may  remain  open  and  running  for  a  con- 
siderable time. 

RkmEdies. — Abscess  or  broken  breast 
can  almost  always  be  prevented  by  covering 
them  entirely  and  closely  with  adhesive  or 
common  sticking  plaster.  If  this  cannot  be 
done  on  account  of  soreness,  pack  them 
with  cloths  wrung  out  of  cold  water,  in 
which  is  a  quantity  of  corn  meal ;  wring 
pretty  dry  ;  cover  well ;  change  as  often  as 
they  get  warm  or  dry.  Add  tincture  of 
Myrrh  to  water  ;  Belladonna  at  first,  if  sore 
and  Dainful.     If  they  go  on  to  suppuration, 


Il8 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


to  hasten  it  give  Heparsul.,  and  it  would 
be  much  better  to  give  it  as  high  as  the 
thirtieth  attenuation. 

Bronchitis  is  inflammation  of  the  mem- 
brane, lining  the  air-tubes,  or  bronchi.  In 
its  subacute  and  chronic  forms  it  is  one  ot 
ihe  most  common  diseases,  prevailing  at  all 
seasons,  but  especially  in  cold  and  damp 
weather. 

Acute  Bronchitis  may  commence  directly 
in  the  chest  after  exposure  to  cold  ;  but  very 
often,  particularly  in  children,  the  lining 
membranes  of  the  eyelids,  nostrils  and 
throat  are  first  affected,  and  the  disease 
spreads  downward  into  the  air-passages  ot 
the  chest.  In  the  latter  case,  watering  of 
the  eyes,  etc.,  precedes  the  actual  bronchitic 
attack  for  a  day  or  two.  Acute  bronchitis, 
as  it  occurs  in  the  adu't,  is  a  severe  disease, 
requiring  prompt  medical  attendance. 

The  rapid  progress  which  this  disease 
.^lometimes  makes,  from  its  commencement 
to  a  fatal  termination,  renders  the  sending 
for  medical  assistance  as  quickly  as  possible 
an  imperative  duty ;  but  the  same  reason 
renders  it  important  that  those  around 
should  be  aware  of  the  best  method  of  treat- 
ment. Confinement  to  bed  is  a  matter  of 
course  :  foot-baths,  hot  bran-poultices  to  the 
chest,  and  warm  diluent  drinks  are  all  ser- 
viceable. 

The  acute  bronchitis  of  children  is  not 
usually  so  rapid  and  strongly  marked  a  dis- 
ease as  that  just  described;  it  often  begins 
with  the  irritation  of  the  membrane  of  the 
nose  and  eyes,  and  extends  itself  into  the 
chest.  Languor,  succeeded  by  fever,  op- 
pressed and  quickened  respiration,  and 
cough,  are  the  usual  symptoms.  Bran- 
poultices  ought  to  be  used  to  the  chest. 
The  warm  bath  may  be  useful  in  the  first 
stage  of  depression  ;  but  when  fever  is  high, 
it  is  not  advisable.  The  bowels,  of  course, 
will  require  attention.  It  is  of  the  greatest 
importance  to  attend  to  the  atmosphere  sur- 
rounding, either  child  or  adult  suffering  from 
bronchitis  :  the  chamber  should  be  well 
ventilated,  and  the  temperature  not  suffered 
to  fall  below  55°  Fahr.  Bronchitis  in  chil- 
dren is  so  hazardous  and  frequently  so  fatal 
a  disease,  that  its  domestic  treatment  ought 
never  to  be  undertaken,  except  under  neces- 
sity.    Its  exciting  cause  is  almost  invariably 

36 


cold  and  moisture,  particularly  dunng  the 
prevalence  of  east  wind  in  the  spring  months; 
while  careless  and  ineflBcient  clothing  among 
the  poor,  and  absurd  modes  of  dressing  amid 
the  higher  classes,  render  children  more  sus- 
ceptible of  these  injurious  influences. 

Remedies. — Aconite,  if  feverish,  nerv- 
ous, short  dry  cough  that  hurts.  Bella- 
donna, if  the  throat  is  red,  painful,  hoarse, 
and  patient  is  stupid.  Bryonia,  if  any 
motion  aggravates ;  Hydrastis  for  old 
people .  Kali  bichromicum ,  if  hoarse  croupy 
cough  with  stingy  mucus.  Phosphorus,  if 
there  are  pleuritic  pains  with  tightness  ex- 
tending to  the  chest.  Rumex,  aggravated 
by  deep  breathing,  talking,  laughing,  or 
cold  air. 

Bronchocele — Goitre. — These  names  are 
given  to  a  swelling  in  the  neck,  caused  by 
an  enlargement  of  the  thyroid  gland,  situ- 
ated in  front  of  the  windpipe.  The  disease 
is  confined  to  particular  districts  of  countr3^ 

Full  throat  varies  in  size,  from  the  enlarge- 
ment so  slight  as  to  be  scarcely  perceptible 
—or  even,  in  some  eyes,  to  add  grace  to  the 
neck — to  a  tumor  many  pounds  in  weight. 
In  England  or  America,  however,  it  seldom 
attains  the  immense  size  it  does  elsewhere. 
Bronchocele  is  much  more  common  in  fe- 
males than  in  males  ;  indeed,  in  this  country 
it  is  rarel}'-  seen  among  the  latter ;  and  in 
both  sexes,  as  a  general  rule,  does  not  ap- 
pear till  after  puberty  ;  children,  however, 
do  suffer  from  it  even  from  earliest  infanc3^ 
The  rise  and  progress  of  bronchocele  are  for 
the  most  part  slow,  and  unaccompanied 
with  pain  ;  but  occasionally  rapid  enlarge- 
ment occurs,  and  then  pain  is  severe. 
Coughs,  child-bearing,  strong  muscular  ex- 
ertions, are  all  liable  to  induce  and  accel- 
erate the  progress  of  bronchocele :  the 
monthly  period  also  exerts  considerable  in- 
fluence upon  it.  Females  of  lymphatic 
temperament  are  more  liable  to  be  attacked. 

Bronchocele  is  a  disease  for  the  most  part 
devoid  of  danger  ;  the  chief  inconvenience 
attending  it,  when  of  large  size,  being  im- 
pediment to  the  breathing,  and  fullness  of 
the  head  arising  from  obstruction  to  the  cir- 
culation in  the  vessels  of  the  head  and  neck. 
The  appearance  of  a  large  bronchocele  is,  of 
course,  unsightly,  although  in  those  locali- 
ties in  which  it  prevails  it  is  scarcely  observed. 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


119 


Various  causes  have  been  assigned  for  the 
production  of  bronchocele  ;  but  none  with 
so  much  probability  as  that  which  attributes 
it  to  the  regular  use  of  water  containing  lime 
and  magnesia — impregnations  of  the  fluid 
found  coincident  with  the  disease. 

Rkmkdies. — Iodine  and  Spongia  will 
nearly  always  cure. 

Burns. — Cover  thick  with  lather  made 
of  Castile  soap.  If  it  cracks,  cover  them 
with  same  and  let  it  remain  till  it  is  healed. 

Cancrum  Oris  is  a  species  of  mortifica- 
tion, affecting  the  cheek  and  gums.  It  oc- 
curs in  children  of  weak,  scrofulous  consti- 
tution who  are  ill-fed  and  exposed  to  the  in- 
fluences of  unhealthy  habitations,  and  most 
generally  is  consequent  upon  acute  disease, 
particularly  measles. 

Symptoms . — The  usual  first  symptom  of 
the  disease  is  a  red,  hard,  angry-looking 
spot  on  the  cheek,  which  quickly  opens  into 
a  gangrenous  ulcer  inside  the  mouth ;  the 
gums  become  affected,  the  teeth  drop  out, 
the  breath,  as  might  be  expected,  is  unbear- 
ably fetid,  and  the  extending  ulceration 
goes  on  destroying  the  cheek  and  contigu- 
ous parts,  till  it  is  either  stopped  or  death 
ensues. 

Remedies. — Mercurius,  if  much  saliva. 
Borax,  if  very  sore;  bathe  parts  frequently 
with  tincture  of  Myrrh,  so  diluted  with  water 
it  will  not  smart. 

Carbuncle. — It  should  be  treated  kindly 
and  never  cut,  but  apply  hot  fomentations, 
cloths  wet  with  hot  water,  and  tincture  of 
Myrrh  should  be  added.  If  unable  to  pre- 
vent their  forming,  poultice  with  wild  in- 
digo-root, finely  powdered,  wet  with  chloride 
of  limewater,  adding  to  this  tincture  of 
Myrrh.  Give  Arsenicum  for  the  burning, 
and  Hepar  sul.  later  to  hasten  suppuration. 

Catarrh. — This  being  the  most  prevalent 
disease  known,  it  requires  a  large  number 
of  remedies  to  combat  it  successfully.  At 
the  beginning,  ordinary  remedies  for  a  cold 
in  the  head  will  sufiice,  but  later,  others 
must  be  added.  Allium  cepa,  for  bland- 
discharge  from  the  eyes  and  burning  ex- 
coriating discharge  from  the  nose.  Arseni- 
cum, burning  discharge,  watery  discharge 
with  sensation  as  if  the  nose  was  stopped 
up.     Berberis,  purulent  discharge  from  the 


nose,  left  nostril  worse.  Calcarea  carb,,  for 
children  with  enlarged  tonsils,  scrofulous 
tendency,  crooked  legs. 

Remedies. — Euphrasia,  eyes  inflamed, 
full  of  tears .  Hepar  sul . ,  with  croupy  cough 
from  exposure  to  cold  winds.  Nux  vomica, 
dry  nose  at  commencement,  then  fluent  in 
daytime  and  dry  at  night.  Costive,  Pulsa- 
tilla, thick,  yellow,  greenish  discharge,  loss 
of  smell  and  appetite,  better  out  of  doors, 
worse  in  a  warm  room.  Sanguinaria,  alter- 
nation of  fluent  running  and  stoppage  of  the 
nose. 

Chilblains. — A  chilblain  is  an  inflam- 
matory affection  of  the  skin,  more  par- 
ticularly of  the  fingers  or  toes  caused  by 
alternations  of  cold  and  heat,  and  is  char- 
acterized rather  by  irritating  and  trouble- 
some itching  than  by  pain.  Persons  of 
fine  skin,  scrofulous  constitution  or  lan- 
guid circulation  are  most  liable  to  suffer 
from  chilblains,  and  old  people  and  children 
more  than  persons  of  middle  life.  The  sud- 
den exposure  of  the  skin  when  very  cold  to 
a  high  temperature  is  generally  and  justly 
considered  to  be  an  exciting  cause  of  the 
affection  ;  but  one  quite  as  frequent  is  keep- 
ing the  surface  in  a  state  of  artificial  warmth 
by  the  use  of  sleeping-socks  and  hot  appli- 
cations in  bed,  or  of  fur-lined  shoes  and 
foot- warmers  in  the  daytime.  All  these 
applications  keep  the  skin  in  a  continual 
state  of  unnatural  perspiration,  weaken  its 
tone,  and  so  render  it  more  susceptible  to 
the  effects  of  cold  when  exposed  to  it. 

Remedies. — Apis,  red  stinging.  Ana- 
cardium ,  violent  itching .  Arsenicum ,  burn- 
ing.    Rhus  tox.,  watery  blisters. 

Cholera,  Asiatic  or  flalignant. — Symp- 
to7ns. — The  violence  of  its  symptoms,  and 
the  fearful  rapidity  with  which  it  often 
terminates  life,  render  cholera  one  of  our 
most  alarming  diseases.  Occasionally,  but 
more  frequently  in  hot  climates  than  in  tem- 
perate ones,  persons  are,  as  it  were,  pros- 
trated at  once  by  the  cholera-poison,  and 
die,  perhaps  within  an  hour  of  the  first 
attack,  without  any  other  symptom  than 
total  collapse  of  the  powers  of  life.  More 
generally  the  seizure  is  not  so  sudden: 
probably  there  has  been  slight  diarrhea,  or 
rumbling  movements  of  the  bowels,  with 
sinking  sensation  at  the  stomach,  for  some 


363 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


days  previously  ;  or,  at  all  events,  the  per- 
son has  felt  unwell.  When  the  disease  sets 
in  earnestly,  which,  in  the  larger  proportion 
of  cases,  it  does  during  the  night,  the  patient 
vomits,  and  is  purged  with  more  or  less  fre- 
quency and  violence,  the  evacuations  quickly 
coming  to  resemble  thin  gruel  or  rice-water  ; 
cramps  of  the  limbs  succeed,  the  surface 
becomes  cold,  blue,  bathed  in  sweat,  and 
has,  particularly  the  fingers,  a  peculiar 
shrunken ,  sodden  appearance ;  the  tongue 
is  cold,  the  pulse  imperceptible  ;  the  urine 
is  suppressed,  and  the  voice  acquires  a  pecu- 
liar pitch  of  tone.  Many  die  in  this  the  col- 
lapse stage  of  the  disease  ;  but  if  it  is  passed 
through,  reaction  comes  on,  the  surface  gets 
warm,  the  thirst  continues,  the  quick  pulse 
becomes  perceptible,  the  tongue  is  dry  and 
brown,  and  delirum  is  present ;  in  short, 
fever  is  established,  and  may  end  either  in 
recovery  or  death. 

Treatment. — During  the  prevalence  of 
cholera,  many  err  in  making  material 
changes  in  their  ordinary  modes  of  living,  and 
by  so  disordering  the  regularity  of  the  func- 
tions lay  themselves  open  to  attacks  of  the 
disease.  It  should  be  understood  that  what- 
ever tends  to  lower  the  standard  of  health 
favors  the  attack  of  the  disease.  There  is, 
however,  one  important  precaution  which 
ought  to  be  observed  at  all  times,  indeed, 
but  more  particularly  during  the  epidemic 
of  cholera  ;  the  perfect  purity  of  the  drink- 
ing-water should  be  ascertained,  and  its 
freedom  from  all  decomposing  organic  mat- 
ters made  certain .  Care  is  also  to  be  observed 
not  to  take  active  purgatives,  particularly 
salines,  which  produce  watery  evacuation  ; 
for  whatever  produces  free  action  of  the 
bowels  apparenttly  increases  the  suscepti- 
bility to  attack.  For  this  leason,  too,  the 
slightest  tejidency  to  diarrhea  should  be  at  once 
arrested  by  the  aromatic  spirits  of  camphor, 
repeated  as  often  as  requisite,  and  the  use  of 
milk  and  farinaceous  preparations  contain- 
ing gelatinous  food.  The  speedy  adoption 
of  these  measures  in  places  distant  from 
medical  assistance,  might  do  much  to  check 
the  disease. 

Remedies. — Arsenicum,  burning,  ex- 
hausting discharges,  thirsty,  drinks  little  and 
often.  Camphor,  vomiting,  diarrhea  with 
severe  cramps  in  bowels  and  limbs.      Vera- 


trum  alb.,  profuse  vomiting  and  watery  dis- 
charges, cold  flesh,  cramps.  In  this  dis- 
ease give  medicine  every  five  minutes  at 
first ;  keep  patient  warm. 

Colic  is  the  painful  spasmodic  contrac- 
tion of  the  muscular  fibers  of  the  bowels, 
occasioned  by  the  presence  of  an  undue 
amount  of  wind,  or  of  some  irritating  mat- 
ter ;  it  may  also  be  brought  on  by  exposure 
to  cold. 

Remedies. — Hot  applications  to  abdo- 
men. Carbo  veg. ,  if  sour  eructations.  Colo- 
cynth,  sharp,  cutting  pains,  obliging  one  to 
bend  double  which  relieves.  Dioscorea,  se- 
vere, dull  or  snarp  pains,  better  bending 
backwards.  Chamomilla,ifthe  pain  begins  in 
small  of  back  and  runs  down  to  region  of  the 
bladder  with  vomiting.  Nux  vomica,  dull 
aching  pains,  if  caused  by  unripe  fruit.  Cos- 
tive, Pulsatilla,  from  food,  especially  greasy 
food.  Plumbum,  violent  colic  with  great 
contraction  of  abdomen  in  region  of  navel. 

Constipation. — For  a  general  constipated 
habit,  Nux  vomica  at  night.  Sulphur  in  the 
morning.  Bryonia,  for  large  feces  ;  Nux 
vomica,  small  balls  ;  Opium,  small  dark 
balls.  Ratanhia,  for  soreness  of  rectum, 
bowels  costive,  or  loose  slimy  or  bloody 
discharge.  It  may  also  be  given  three 
grains  rectal  suppositories  at  night. 

Convulsions.  —  Convulsions  may  be 
either  general  or  partial,  affecting  only  the 
muscles  of  the  eyes  or  eyelids,  of  the  face, 
or  of  one  of  the  extremities,  or  of  one  side 
of  the  body  ;  or  they  may  shake  the  whole 
frame  in  convulsive  agitation,  such  as  occur 
in  epilepsy. 

When  a  Child  is  seized  with  Convulsions, 
the  most  generally  available  remedy  is  the 
warm  bath,  and  if  used  with  judgment  is  a 
good  one.  The  temperature  should  be  g8°  ; 
if  the  child  is  strong  and  plethoric,  it  should 
not  be  immersed  above  the  waist,  and,  while 
in  the  bath,  cold  should  be  applied  to  the 
head  ;  if  the  child  is  weak,  it  may  be  put  in 
the  water  above  the  shoulders ;  in  either 
case  the  immersion  is  to  be  continued  for 
twenty  minutes,  and  an  injection  ol  warm 
water  and  soapsuds  immediately  admin- 
istered. When  the  child  is  taken  out  of  the 
bath,  it  should  at  once  be  wrapped  up  in 
warm  blankets  and  laid  in  its  cradle  or  in 


364 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


121 


bed,  and  cold  used  to  the  head,  or  not,  as 
thought  well ;  and  if  the  fits  still  continue, 
mustard-plasters  made  with  half  oatmeal 
may  be  applied  to  the  legs,  but  must  be  re- 
moved as  soon  as  the  skin  is  well  reddened. 

When  an  Adult  is  seized  with  Convulsions, 
the  treatment,  conducted  upon  the  same 
principles,  must  be  very  similar  to  that 
recommended  for  a  child,  with  exception  of 
the  bath,  which  cannot  be  conveniently 
used ;  in  its  stead,  a  warm  bed,  with  hot 
applications  to  the  feet,  limbs,  etc.,  must 
be  substituted,  and  mustard-plasters  may  be 
used  more  freely.  If  there  is  much  heat  or 
excited  action  about  the  head,  it  should  be 
shaved,  or  the  hair  cut  close  off,  and  cold 
or  iced  applications  freely  employed.  In 
following  out  these  directions,  the  non- 
professional will  be  doing  much,  and  indeed 
all  they  can  legitimately  do  during  the 
longer  or  shorter  interval  that  must  neces- 
sarily elapse  before  the  case  is  seen  by  a 
medical  man.  Lastly,  it  must  be  borne  in 
mind  that  convulsions  are  not  unfrequent  in 
extreme  intoxication,  and  also  in  poisoning 
from  narcotics,  such  as  opium  ;  their  occur- 
rence from  such  causes  would,  of  course, 
materially  modify  the  treatment.  In  chil- 
dren particularly,  they  are  unquestionably 
the  frequent  result  of  the  administration  of 
laudanum,  and  more  frequently  still  of 
quack  soothing  medicines' and  elixirs. 

Remedies. — Chamomilla,  for  teething 
children.  Spigelia,  if  caused  by  worms. 
To  relieve  spasms,  let  them  inhale  Amyl 
nitrite,  one  part,  alcohol,  nine  parts,  till 
relieved. 

Cramp. — Cuprum  for  cramps  anywhere. 
Phosphorus  for  cramps  in  limbs,  especially 
in  pregnant  females. 

Croup  is  an  inflammatory  affection  of  the 
larynx  and  upper  portions  of  the  air-pas- 
sages .  It  is  peculiar  to  children — males  are 
more  liable  to  it  than  females — and  when 
one  in  a  family  suffers  from  the  disease,  the 
rest  almost  certainly  have  a  tendency  to  it. 
The  malady  seldom  occurs  during  the  first 
year  of  life,  but  is  most  frequent  in  the 
second  ;  at  puberty  the  tendency  to  it  ceases, 
although  cases  of  genuine  croup  have  occur- 
red after  that  period.  The  rapidity  with 
which  croup  at  times  progresses  to  a  fatal 


termination,  and  the  distressing  character  of 
the  malady , always  render  it  a  dreaded  disease. 

Symptoms. — Croup  may  begin  very  sud- 
denly. A  child  goes  to  bed  to  all  appear- 
ance perfectly  well,  and  in  the  course  of  two 
or  three  hours  comes  a  cough  which  strikes 
even  the  most  unobservant  as  peculiar,  and 
which,  falling  upon  the  ear  of  the  anxious 
parent  who  has  ever  heard  it  before,  tells  at 
once  of  danger.  The  child  seems  as  if  it 
coughed  through  a  brazen  tube.  Perhaps 
at  first  the  little  invalid  is  not  awakened, 
and,  if  now  visited,  is  found  flushed  and 
fevered,  moaning  slightly,  perhaps,  and 
restless,  the  breathing  slightly  quickened ; 
the  cough  comes  again,  the  child  awakes  or 
is  awakened  :  if  it  speaks  the  voice  is  hoarse  ; 
if  it  cries,  hoarser  still.  Should  the  disease 
be  neglected  at  this  time,  or  go  on  uncon- 
trolled, the  cough,  still  retaining  its  peculiar 
character,  becomes  more  frequent ;  the 
breathing,  quickened,  is  also  accompanied 
by  the  characteristic  dry  wheezing  occa- 
sioned by  narrowing  of  the  passage  through 
which  the  air  is  drawn. 

Remedies. — Aconite,  sudden  attacks  in 
night,  high  fever,  child  throws  itself  around. 
Hepar  sul.,  worse  in  the  morning,  rattling 
cough  but  no  raising  of  phlegm.  Hoarse, 
dry,  barking  cough.  Kali  bichromicum, 
worse  early  in  morning,  the  mucus  in  throat 
is  very  stringy,  hard  to  remove.  Spongia, 
hoarse,  sawing  sound  and  gets  worse  in  the 
evening.  Spasmodic  cough  that  comes  first 
suddenly  in  the  night  is  not  generally  dan 
gerous  ;  but  a  slight  croupy  cough  at  night, 
well  the  next  day,  and  reappearing  the  next 
night  is  always  dangerous,  liable  to  result 
in  membranous  croup.  Benninghausens' 
treatment.  Aconite,  Hepar  sul.  and  Spongia 
in  alternation  or  rotation  has  proved  very 
successful  in  many  cases.  A  very  eflficient 
help  is  a  cold  damp  compress  not  too  wet, 
well  covered  up  and  changed  as  often  as  it 
gets  warm  or  dry.  The  remedies  at  first  cap 
be  often  repeated.  Kali  bichromicum  had 
better  be  given  the  second  or  third  decimal 
trituration.  The  other  remedies  act  better 
higher. 

Diarrhea. — Antimonium  crudum,  dis- 
ordered stomach,  tongue  coated  white, 
bitter  vomiting,  worse  after  eating  or  drink- 
ing. Arsenicum, watery,  burning  discharges, 


365 


122 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


worse  about  midnight,  prostration,  great 
thirst,  but  drinks  but  little  at  a  time. 
Bryonia,  from  change  of  weather,  eating 
fruit;  painful ,  worse  from  motion .  Calcarea 
carb.,  during  dentition,  child  light  skin, 
large  head  and  crooked  legs.  Chamomilla 
during  dentition,  discharges  green,  painful, 
watery,  looks  like  chopped  eggs.  Mer- 
curius,  green  or  bloody  discharges,  great 
straining  at  stool,  can't  get  done.  Rheum, 
greenish-brown  fermented  discharges,  sour 
discharges,  child  smells  sour. 

Veratrum  alb.,  profuse  vomiting  and 
diarrhea,  cold  skin. 

If  thirsty  during  diarrhea,  the  patient 
should  be  allowed  to  drink  large  quantities 
of  pure  cold  water,  and  quite  a  quantity  at 
a  time,  as  a  small  quantity  is  liable  to  be 
thrown  up  at  once. 

Dislocations. — It  is  necessary  to  speak  of 
only  one  dislocation,  and  that  is,  the  back- 
ward dislocation  of  the  thumb,  which  is 
considered  and  given  in  the  books  as  one  of 
the  worst  to  reduce.  It  is  advised  to  apply 
straps,  to  pull  even  with  pulleys  is  recom- 
mended. Sometimes  it  is  left  dislocated, 
sometimes  the  ligaments  are  cut,  destroying 
the  use  of  the  joint,  and  the  thumb  has  been 
amputated  ;  still  it  is  one  of  the  easiest  to 
reduce.  Grasp  the  injured  hand,  palm 
down,  place  the  end  of  both  thumbs  against 
the  end  of  the  dislocated  bone,  place  both 
of  your  fore-fingers  under  the  middle  of  the 
thumb,  then  with  the  fore-finger  lift  the  dis- 
located thumb  to  a  standing  position  at 
right  angles  with  the  connecting  bone ; 
then  give  a  quick,  strong  push  with  both 
thumbs,  pushing  it  off  the  other  bone ; 
remove  the  fore-fingers,  and  with  the  thumbs 
bend  the  thumb  to  its  natural  position.  If 
done  soon  after  the  injury  it  is  almost 
painless. 

If  it  has  been  done  some  time,  and  it  is 
swollen,  it  may  be  necessary  to  give  an 
anesthetic. 

Dysentery. — Cantliaris,for  painful  bloody 
discharges  with  painful  urination.  Colo- 
cynth,  yellow,  frothy  or  bloody  stools  with 
severe  colicky  pains,  causing  the  patient  to 
bend  double ,  which  gives  relief.  Mercurius , 
green,  frothy  or  bloody  discharge,  worse  in 
cool  evenings      Painful  urination. 


Headache. — A  vena,  pain  in  back  of  head 
and  neck.  Belladonna,  beating,  throbbing 
headache,  worse  lying  down,  red  face. 
Bryonia,  head  painful  and  sore,  worse  on 
moving.  Calcarea  phos.,  headache  of 
school  girls.  Glonoine,  dark  red  face, 
throbbing  headache,  better  lying  down, 
head  feels  big. 

Nux  vomica,  dull  pain,  worse  in  front 
of  head,  nausea,  constipation.  Pulsatilla, 
headache  from  indigestion,  especially  from 
greasy  food,  better  out-of-doors,  worse  in 
room ;  particularly  adapted  to  females. 
Sanguinaria,  pain  begins  in  the  back  of  the 
head,  extends  forward  over  right  eye. 

Heart. — Digitalis  is  the  remedy  most 
frequently  used  for  weak  heart  action,  but 
has  to  be  given  in  large  doses  of  the  fluid 
extract,  and  that  is  quite  apt  to  produce 
nausea  and  vomiting.  Glonoine  is  the 
remedy  for  rapid  action,  especially  if  there 
is  rapid  breathing  as  after  running.  Spigelia 
is  beneficial  in  neuralgia  of  or  about  the 
breast. 

Veratrum  viride  can  be  given  for  rapid 
action  of  the  heart,  but  must  be  stopped  if 
it  causes  nausea.  Amyl  nitrite,  one  part 
to  three  to  five,  according  to  the  patient,  of 
alcohol  and  inhaled. 

Hemorrhage.  —  Hemorrhages  may  be 
arterial  or  venous.  If  arterial,  the  blood 
will  be  bright,  and  comes  in  jets  or  spurts, 
while  venous  blood  is  dark  and  oozes  con- 
stantly. The  arterial  is  the  most  dangerous, 
Hamamelis  for  dark  blood.  Ipecac  for 
bright  blood  from  mouth  or  nose,  especially 
if  there  is  nausea.  Phosphorus  for  hot 
bright  red  blood. 

Indigestion, — Nux  vomica,  where  food 
distresses,  bowels  constipated,  dull,  frontal 
headache.  Dioscorea  for  chronic  indiges- 
tion with  constipation,  pain  in  bowels.  Pul- 
.satilla,  food  distresses,  bowels  loose,  feels 
better  in  the  open  air.  Better  for  indiges- 
tion, especially  if  their  is  diarrhea,  than  all 
the  Peptones  in  the  market,  is  six  grains  of 
Codea  well  mixed  in  a  mortar  with  one 
ounce  of  phosphate  of  lime,  then  add  and 
mix  in  the  same  way  one  ounce  of  Sub- 
nitrate  of  Bismuth.  Take  about  five  grains 
before  and  after  each  meal,  wash  it  down 
with  cold  water. 


366 


THE  FA  MIL  V  DOCTOR 


123 


Lumbago. — Berberis  vulgaris  is  the  best 
remedy  for  general  lame  back.  Belladonna, 
for  simple  aching.  Bryonia,  lameness, 
worse  moving.  Rhus  tox.,  better  by  con- 
tinual moving. 

Measles  is  one  of  the  eruptive  fevers, 
which  most  persons  go  through  once  in  a 
lifetime,  and  generally  during  childhood  ; 
the  disease  usually  occurs  as  an  epidemic, 
and  is  contagious. 

The  First  Symptoms  of  measles  are  those 
of  a  feverish  cold  ;  there  is  shivering,  head- 
ache, loss  of  appetite,  and  perhaps  vomiting  ; 
the  eyes  look  red,  and,  as  well  as  the  nose, 
furnish  increased  watery  discharge  ;  there 
is  hoarseness  and  cough.  On  the  fourth 
day  of  the  disease,  or  in  from  seventy  to 
eighty- four  hours  after  the  first  symptoms 
of  sickness  have  shown  themselves,  the  pe- 
culiar eruption  of  measles  begins  to  appear, 
generally  about  the  forehead,  then  on  the 
neck  and  arms,  and  thence  extends  to  the 
trunk  and  extremities  ;  at  first  the  eruption 
shows  only  in  red  points,  not  unlike  flea- 
bites,  but  these  soon  enlarge  into  rather 
broad,  slightly  purplish,  crescent-shaped 
spots,  which  are  just  perceptibly  elevated 
above  the  skin.  At  this  period  the  skin  is 
hot,  there  is  a  good  deal  of  general  fever, 
with  thirst,  and  much  hoarse  cough,  with 
quickened  breathing.  After  remaining  out 
about  four  days,  the  eruption— first,  of 
course,  on  the  face — begins  to  decline,  and 
by  the  seventh  day  it  has  generally  disap- 
peared, leaving  the  skin  slightly  roughened, 
followed  by  separation  of  the  cuticle  in 
small  scales. 

Treatmkmt. — In  any  case  of  measles, 
the  safest  plan  is,  of  course,  to  have  medi- 
cal attendance  ;  very  many  parents,  how- 
ever, in  the  humbler  classes,  when  the 
prevailing  epidemic  is  mild  in  character, 
take  the  matter  in  their  own  hands,  and  do 
little  more  than  keep  their  children  in  bed 
for  a  day  or  two,  if  they  do  even  that. 
There  is  no  question  that  a  mild  attack  of 
measles  will  get  well  without  any  treatment ; 
but  in  even  the  mildest,  ordinary  care  to 
guard  against  cold  should  be  observed,  this 
being,  of  course,  requisite  in  proportion  to 
the  season  of  the  year.  If  the  attack  be  a 
smart  one,  the  person  should  be  kept  in  bed 
and  moderately   warm,   allowed    to   drink 


freely  of  diluent  and  especially  of  demulcent 
drinks,  such  as  barley-water.  The  diet 
should  consist  of  milk  and  farinaceous  mat- 
ters ;  cooling  fruits  and  such  like  may  be 
allowed,  the  bowels  at  the  same  time  being 
attended  to,  but  not  purged.  Should  the 
eruption  of  measles  seem  tardy  in  coming 
out,  or  come  out  small  or  insufficiently,  or, 
after  having  shown  itself,  should  it  disap- 
pear again  suddenly  and  before  the  time  of 
its  regular  decline,  danger  must  be  appre- 
hended. The  warm  bath  is  at  once  the 
safest  and  the  best  remedy  ;  the  child  being 
kept  in  the  water — temperature  98° — from 
ten  to  twenty  minutes,  according  to  age. 

Remedies. — Aconite,  for  the  chills  or 
fever.  If  this  does  not  relieve,  Bryonia  may 
be  alternated  with  it.  Bryonia  for  the  cough  ; 
Drosera  for  the  cough  that  may  follow. 
Pulsatilla  for  the  eye,  nose  and  throat 
symptoms.  If  the  frequent  repetition  of 
Aconite  and  Bryonia  does  not  bring  out  the 
eruption  the  patient  may  take  a  drink  of 
sour  cider  in  which  is  a  small  powder  of 
soda  or  saleratus,  to  be  drank  while  foam- 
ing. If  this, fails  to  bring  out  the  eruption, 
a  cold  wet  sheet  pack,  rightly  applied,  will 
do  it. 

flenses.  —  Aconite,  feverish,  nervous, 
severe,  dull  cramping  pain  in  bowels  and 
pain  in  back  ;  she  has  to  bend  double.  Stop- 
page of  flow.  Belladonna,  violent  throb- 
bing headache,  violent  bearing  down .  Sleepy 
but  unable  to  sleep,  delirious.  Caulophyl- 
lum,  labor- like  pains.  Cimicifuga,  severe 
pains,  extending  down  the  limbs.  Pul- 
satilla, mild,  tearful  disposition,  hystericaly 
weeps,  colicky  pains,  suppressed,  scant, 
and  irregular  flow. 

Senecio  gracilis,  for  suppressed  menses, 
called  Female  Regulator.  The  most  potent 
remedy  for  pains  is  the  inhalation  of  a  mix- 
ture of  Amyl  nitrite,  one  part,  alcohol, 
three  parts.  Inhale  as  often  as  is  necessary 
on  account  of  pain. 

Mumps. — A  contagious  epidemic  disease, 
which  consists  of  inflammation  of  the  sali- 
vary "  parotid  "  glands,  situated  on  either 
side  of  the  lower  jaw.  It  commences  with 
more  or  less  fever  ;  shortly,  swelling  at  the 
angle  of  the  jaw  appears,  and  spreads  gradu- 
ally to  the  face  and  neck  in  the  vicinity  oi 


367 


124 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


the  gland,  causing  much  difficulty  and  pain 
when  the  jaws  are  attempted  to  be  opened  : 
on  the  fourth  or  fifth  day  the  swelling  begins 
to  subside. 

Remedies.  —  Belladonna  and  Proto- 
lodide  of  Mercury,  with  the  patient  kept 
warm,  is  generally  all  that  is  required. 

Neuralgia. — This  is  perhaps  one  of  the 
most  painful  aflfections  to  which  the  human 
body  is  liable.  In  most  instances  the  pain 
is  the  only  symptom  ;  in  some  it  is  accom- 
panied with  marked  constitutional  or  local 
ailment.  The  most  general  seat  of  neuralgic 
pain  is  in  the  head  or  face  ;  but  the  fingers, 
the  chest,  the  abdomen,  etc.,  may  any  of 
them  constitute  its  site.  When  the  great 
nerve  of  the  leg  is  affected  with  neuralgia, 
the  disorder  is  known  as  Sciatica. 

Remedies.  —  Belladonna  for  neuralgia 
of  the  head,  or  in  any  part,  if  pain  comes 
suddenly  and  goes  suddenly ;  Avena  for 
pain  in  back  of  head.  Gelsemium,,  pain, 
with  dark  red  face  and  pain  in  side  of  face. 
Kalmia  Latifolia  is  the  remedy  for  facial 
neuralgia.  Glonoine,  pain  in  head,  head 
feels  large,  and  the  pain  is  relieved  by  lying 
down  ;  worse  on  rising.  Nux  vomica, 
neuralgia  of  the  head,  begins  in  the  morn- 
ing, lasts  all  day,  better  in  the  evening,  with 
sour,  bitter  vomiting.  Sanguinaria,  pain 
begins  in  back  of  head,  extends  over  to  the 
front  of  the  head,  and  settles  over  right  eye. 

Palpitation  of  the  Heart. — If  it  appears 
occasionally,  it  is  doubtless  occasioned  by 
some  disturbance  of  the  stomach  or  liver, 
and  the  treatment  should  be  directed  to  the 
offending  organ. 

Piles,  or  Hemorrhoids,  are  tumors  which 
form  at  the  verge  of  the  anus  or  fundament, 
and  may  be  situated  either  within  or  without 
the  bowel :  they  are  either  what  are  called 
"  Blind  "  or  they  are  Bleeding  Piles.  Piles 
are  often  constituted  by  an  enlargement  or 
' '  varicose  ' '  condition  of  the  veins  situated 
about  this  part,  this  enlargement  being 
caused  by  whatever  tends  to  obstruct  the 
return  of  the  blood  through  the  veins  of  the 
abdomen  generally  ;  thus,  affections  of  the 
liver,  constipation,  with  overloaded  bowels, 
pregnancy,  etc. ,  are  all  frequent  causes  of 
this  form  of  piles,  in  which  the  swellings 
are  generally  smooth  and  of  the  color  of  the 
surrounding  skin. 


Remedies. — ^sciilus  hip.,  protruding 
piles,  bleeding  slightly,  costive,  lame  back. 
Aloes,  protruding  piles,  like  bunches  of 
grapes  hot  and  sore,  relieved  by  cold  or  hot 
water,  prolapsus  of  the  rectum.  Collinsonia, 
piles  with  sensation  as  there  were  sticks  in 
the  rectum.  Graphites,  protrusion  of  rectum 
with  stool,  or  passing  of  wind.  Ignatia, 
bleeding  piles  with  pains  shooting  high  up 
into  the  rectum.  Hamamelis,  very  sore, 
bleeding  piles.  Nux  vomica,  after  taking 
purgative  medicines,  persons  of  sedentary 
habits,  after  liquors  of  any  kind,  dull  head- 
ache, costive.  Podophyllum,  piles  and  pro- 
trusions of  rectum  of  long  standing.  Ratan- 
hia,  protruding  piles,  hard  or  soft  stool,, 
burning  and  soreness  of  rectum.  Rectum 
very  sensitive.  Three  grains  Ratanhia  sup- 
positories may  be  used.  Sulphur,  all  kinds 
of  piles,  constant  ineffectual  urging  to  stool ; 
thin  bloody  stools.  Hot  water  is  the  best 
general  application. 

Pleurisy — This  is  an  inflammation  ot 
the  pleura,  or  serous  membrane  which  covers 
the  lungs  and  lines  the  greater  part  of  the 
cavity  of  the  chest. 

Causes. — Exposure  to  wet  and  cold  is  the 
most  common  cause,  but  it  may  come  on 
after  an  accident  in  which  the  ribs  are 
broken,  or  cases  of  stabbing  in  the  chest,  or 
from  a  gunshot  wound  or  other  internal 
injuries. 

Symptoms . — The  patient  first  complains 
of  a  severe  catching  pain  in  the  affected 
side,  and  this  is  made  worse  on  taking  a 
deep  inspiration,  or  coughing  :  the  pain  is 
usually  confined  to  one  spot,  and  on  listen- 
ing there  one  may  hear  a  rubbing  sound,  due 
to  the  roughened  surfaces  moving  on  each 
other. 

Remedies. — Aconite,  for  fever,  if  chilly 
with  sharp  cutting  pains.  Belladonna, 
sharp  cutting  pains  that  come  and  go  sud- 
denly with  beating  headache.  Bryonia, 
with  or  without  fever,  hurts  to  breathe  or 
move.  Phosphorus,  sharp  cutting  pain  that 
comes  occasionally  without  fever. 

Pneumonia. — Symptoms.  — This  is  an 
inflammation  of  the  proper  substance  of  the 
lungs.  The  disease  generally  announces 
itself  with  a  chill  or  chilly  feeling,  which 
lasts  from  half  an  hc<ur  to  an  hour  or  two 
before  a  sensation  of  heat  can  be  produced. 


368 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


125 


The  temperature  will  rise  on  the  first  day, 
and  sometimes  reaches  103°- 105°.  There 
is  pain  in  the  back  and  loins,  and  loss  of 
appetite  and  flushed  face.  The  first  dedided 
symptom  of  pneumonia  will  be  shortness  of 
breath,  so  that  only  short  sentences  are 
spoken  without  the  need  of  breathing,  and 
there  is  a  "stitch"  in  the  side.  Do  not 
postpone  sending  for  a  doctor,  especially  if 
the  patient  is  old,  feeble,  or  a  child. 

Remedie;s.  —  When  the  premonitory 
symptoms  appear,  such  as  being  chilly,  ach- 
ing all  over, — head,  body  and  limbs, — a 
little  difiiculty  of  breathing,  pneumonia  is 
pretty  sure  to  follow,  unless  energetically 
combated. 

In  such  cases,  it  is  well  to  alternate 
Bryonia  and  Aconite ;  a  dose  every  fifteen 
minutes  till  relieved,  then  every  half  hour 
or  hour.  If  this  does  not  abort  it,  and  it 
will  nearly  always  do  it,  and  there  is  pain 
in  lungs  and  troublesome  cough,  give  Phos- 
phorus. After  the  pain  is  relieved,  and 
there  is  a  tight  cough  give  Heparsul.  ;  if  a 
loose  cough,  give  Tartar  emet. 

Quinsy  Sore  Throat.  —  Belladonna  at 
first.  If  that,  with  cold  water  compress  on 
outside,  does  not  abort  it,  give  Hepar  sul., 
and  poultice  with  hot  boiled  potatoes. 

Rheumatism. — Under  this  well-known 
name  are  comprehended  two  forms  of  disease, 
differing  greatly  from  each  other — so  greatly, 
indeed,  as  to  be  distinguished  even  by  the 
unprofessional .  The  acute  form  of  rheuma- 
tism, frequently  called  "rheumatic  fever" 
by  medical  men,  is  popularly  named  "  the 
rheumatics,"  while  the  chronic  form,  the 
"  chronic  rheumatism  "  of  the  physician,  is 
known  to  the  public  as  simply  ' '  rheuma- 
tism," or,  in  vulgar  parlance,  as  "  the  rheu- 
matiz."  "Muscular  rheumatism"  is  also 
included  under  the  term  rheumatism . 

Remediks.  —  Aconite,  fever,  dry,  hot 
skin,  stitching,  pains  in  chest.  Belladonna, 
tearing  cutting  pains  deep  in  bones,  high 
fever,  dry  skin,  thirst,  worse  at  night,  flesh 
so  sore  don't  dare  let  one  come  near  the  bed. 
Bryonia,  swelling  of  any  muscles,  great  pain 
on  the  slightest  motion,  thirst  for  large 
quantities  of  cold  water.  Ammonium 
phos . ,  for  enlargement  of  j  oints .  Artemisia 
abrotanum,  for  severe  pain  before  there  is 


any  swelling.  Caulophyllum,  for  rheuma- 
tism of  fingers  or  wrist  joints.  Cimicifuga, 
severe  pain  in  chest.  Hamamelis,  internal 
and  external  for  great  soreness  of  flesh, 
lycdum,  pain  in  limbs,  hip  joint  and  knees, 
worse  in  warm  bed.  Mercurius,  tearing 
pains,  worse  at  night  and  damp  weather, 
profuse  perspiration  which  gives  no  relief. 
Rhus  tox.,  caused  by  exposure  to  wet  or 
damp  weather,  worse  during  rest  and  begin- 
ning to  move,  but  better  by  continued  mo- 
tion.    Spigelia,  affecting  the  heart. 

Rickets  is  a  disease  in  which  the  bones 
lose  their  earthy  constituents,  and  conse- 
quently their  natural  hardness,  becoming 
soft  like  gristle,  and  somewhat  brittle,  so 
that  they  are  not  only  easily  bent,  but  easily 
broken .  The  term  rickets  is  usually  applied 
to  this  softening,  when  it  occurs  in  childhood; 
but  a  similar  disease  also  attacks  adults,  es- 
pecially females.  Rickets  is  a  constitutional 
disease,  and  is  very  generally  associated 
with  a  tendency  to  scrofula,  either  hereditary 
or  engendered  by  poor  living  and  unhealthy 
influences,  such  as  deficient  ventilation  and 
light,  impure  damp  air,  and  bad  food. 

Remedies. — Calcarea  carb.,  or  calcarea 
phos.,  will  cure  nearly  every  case  if  given 
early  and  continued. 

Saint  Vitus's  Dance,  known  to  medical 
men  by  the  name  of  "  Chorea,'"  is  a  disease 
strongly  indicative  of  nervous  disorder  ;  its 
precise  nature,  however,  is  at  present  ob- 
scure. Probably  it  may  be  occasioned  by 
direct  causes,  that  is,  by  causes  seated  in  the 
great  centers  of  the  nervous  system,  or  by 
indirect  causes,  which  act  by  ' '  reflex  action. ' ' 

Symptoms. — The  most  manifest  symptom 
of  St.  Vitus's  dance  is  continued  involuntary 
action  of  the  voluntary  muscles,  to  a  greater 
or  less  degree — the  extent  of  the  muscles 
affected,  and  the  intensity  of  their  affection, 
varying  with  the  severity  of  the  disease. 
The  disease  generally  commences  with 
twitching  about  the  face  or  neck,  or  in  a 
particular  limb,  gradually  extending  to  one 
side  of  the  body,  or  to  the  whole  body,  as 
the  case  may  be.  Pain  is  seldom  complained 
of,  but  it  does  sometimes  occur  in  the  head. 

Remedies. — Agaricus  muscarius,  is  the 
most  potent  remedy.  Helleborus,  if  brain 
fected.  Ignatia,  for  twiching  of  single 
muscles. 


369 


126 


THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR 


Scarlatina  and  Scarlet  Fever. — Scarlet 
fever  belongs  to  the  class  of  eruptive  fevers, 
and  is  characterized  by  symptoms  so  well 
marked  that  it  can  scarcely  be  mistaken  for 
any  other  disease,  even  by  unprofessional 
persons. 

They?r5/  synipto77i  complained  of,  in  the 
incipient  stage  of  scarlet-fever,  is  sore- 
throat,  either  accompanied  or  quickly  suc- 
ceeded by  the  usual  symptoms  of  a  feverish 
attack,  shivering,  headache,  loss  of  appetite, 
generally  vomiting,  followed  by  heat  of  skin , 
quick  pulse,  and  thirst.  The  eruption  ap- 
pears early,  on  the  second  day  after  the  first 
symptoms  of  indisposition.  It  first  shows 
itself  in  the  form  of  minute  red  points  on 
the  chest  and  arms,  especially  about  the 
elbows,  the  points  becoming  more  numerous 
till  they  form  one  difi"used  surface  of  a  tol- 
erably bright  scarlet  eruption,  which  extends 
to  the  neck,  face,  abdomen  and  body  gen- 
erally. 

Remedies. — Belladonna  is  nearly  a  sure 
preventive  of  pure  scarlet  fever.  Acon- 
ite, in  the  commencement,  nervous,  high 
fever,  and  delayed  eruptions.  Belladonna, 
for  fever,  headache,  sore  throat,  stupid. 
Cantharis,  for  suppressed  urination,  and 
sometimes  Apis  for  the  same  trouble  with 
dropsy.  If  it  puts  on  a  malignant  form, 
Ailanthus  is  the  remedy  or  alternated  with 
Lachesis.  For  the  dropsy,  if  Apis  does  not 
relieve,  make  a  decoction  of  the  common 
white  field  bean  (bean  and  pod),  and  let 
them  drink  freely  of  it  for  a  few  hours. 

Typhoid  Fever. — Probably  no  other  dis- 
ease has  been  as  unskillfuUy  and  unsuccess- 
fully treated  as  typhoid  fever.  A  number 
of  years  ago  a  professor  in  Harvard  Medical 
School  said,  "  Gentlemen,  I  do  not  believe 
in  homeopathy,  for  there  is  nothing  to  it ; 
but  the  homeopathists  beat  us  in  fevers,  and 
how  do  they  do  it  ?  They  let  theirs  alone, 
and  they  get  well ;  we  physic  ours  and  they 
die."  At  this  time  many  physicians  give 
no  medicine,  but  watch  and  feed  the  patients. 
None  but  an  educated  physician  should 
treat  this  disease,  yet  any  intelligent  person 
could  watch  and  feed  them.  It  is  eminently 
a  disease  of  the  intestinal  tract,  and  this 
should  be  kindly  treated,  and  allowed  to 
rest.     Food  cannot   be   digested,    and  any 


food  is  a  foreign  body  if  undigested,  causing 
irritation  and  fever.  When  milk  is  given, 
the  water  invigorates,  the  solid  parts  excite 
the  fever,  and  for  a  little  the  patient  seems 
stronger  and  better,  but  reaction  soon  comes 
and  the  milk  stimulus  must  be  repeated. 
The  milk  is  not  digested  but  passes  through 
the  intestines  an  irritant  or  excitant.  If 
water  is  given,  the  patient  revives  as  well  as 
with  the  milk,  and  there  is  no  correspond- 
ing depression  ;  the  bowels  are  kept  quiet, 
are  able  to  digest  and  assimilate  the  food  as 
soon  as  the  fever  turns. 

If  plenty  of  good  cold  (not  icy  cold) 
water  is  given  the  fever  rarely  runs  over 
three  weeks  and  not  often  over  two.  The 
water  should  be  used  externally  and  intern- 
ally, and  unless  there  is  some  complication 
or  serious  outside  influences  the  patient  will 
very  rarely  die. 

Remedies. — Arsenicum,  for  weak  debili 
tated  persons,  tongue  dark, great  thirst,  drink 
little  and  often,  brownish,  watery,  involun- 
tary discharges  from  bowels,  suppressed  or 
involuntary  urination.  Baptisia  given  early 
may  abort  it ;  later  the  patient  thinks  there 
are  two  parts  of  them  that  they  can't  get 
together.  Belladonna,  great  congestion  of 
the  brain,  drowsy  but  unable  to  sleep,  de- 
lirium, tries  to  run  away.  Bryonia,  delir- 
ious at  night,  dull  piercing  headache,  eyes 
dull,  watery  ;  worse  from  opening  eyes  or 
from  motion,  tongue  coated  thick,  white  or 
yellow ;  later,  brown  and  dry ;  difficult 
breathing,  thirsty  for  large  quantities  of  cold 
water.  Cantharis,  painful  or  suppressed 
urination.  Carbo.  veg.,  cold  breath,  col- 
lapse, threatened  paralysis  of  lungs.  Hyo- 
scyamus,  wild  delirium;  Muriatic  acid,  for 
great  prostration  with  tendency  to  slide 
down  in  bed.  Phosphorus,  if  the  lungs  be- 
come complicated.  Rhus  tox. ,  talks  to  him- 
self, constant  muttering,  bleeding  from 
nose  ;  tip  of  tongue  red,  bowels  loose,  worse 
at  night,  patient  better  by  moving. 

Worms. — Calcarea  carb.  Cina.,  pin- 
worms.     Ratanhia  is  a  specific. 

Wozmds. — For  cut  wounds  Calendula 
(from  marigold  flowers)  is  the  best  applica- 
tion, and  a  wash  of  the  same  for  other 
wounds. 


370 


APB  15  19^0 


A/'^^  ':.] 


'.m 


■  1  ::,~-^M 


''  \t.  1 


'"  :  '  f  1 


-IS! 


One  copy  del.  to  Cat.  Div. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  180  406  6 


