E 


E 


I- 


9 


\t 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS. 

-T'l^B'i 

S|ajt..---  I. iiijnipg]^ Ifu. 

Shelf ...k}-^.).S' 


UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


THE  HOirSEHOLD 


(of    the    DETROIT    FREE    PRESS) 


A  CYCLOPEDIA  OF 


PEACTICAL  HINTS  FOR  MODEM  HOMES. 


CONTAINING     NEW    IDEAS     UPON    AQUARIUMS,     FERNERIES,     BIRDS, 

CABINETS,    children's   AMUSEMENTS,    FANCY   WORK,    PLANTS 

AND    FLOWERS,    HOME   DECORATION     HOUSE    FURNISHING, 

HOUSEKEEPING,    HEALTH,    KNITTING   AND    CROCHET, 

PAINTING,    MUSIC,    USEFUL   AND    ORNAMENTAL 

NEEDLEWORK,    LAUNDRY,    TOILET,    AND 

HUNDREDS   OF   MINOR   HOME 

SUBJECTS. 


WITH  A  FULL  AKD  COMPLETE  TREATISE  0^  COOKERY. 


'■^-'^ 


EDITED  BY 

MAY  PEEEIH"  GOFF. 


"An  altar  to  the  Household  Gods  is  raised  up  here." — Dickens, 


i 


DETROIT : 


THE    DETROIT    FREE    PRESS    CO. 
18,  20  and  22  Woodbridge  Street. 


K^^'..« 


Copyright.  1881,  by 
The  Detroit  Free  Press  Co. 


Printed  and  Electrotyped  by  The  Detroit  Free  Prkss  Co. 
18,  20  and  22  Wood  bridge  Street, 
Detroit,  Mich. 


THIS 

BOOK    IS 

DEDICATED  TO  THE 

WOMEN  OF  "THE  HOUSEHOLD," 

AS  THE  OUTCOME  OF  THEIR  ZEAL  AND 

CHEERFUL   CO-OPERATION  IN 

THE  WORK   THAT   HAS 

PRODUCED  THESE 

PAGES. 


ooisrTEisrTS. 


PART  I. 

PAGE 

^OLTAN  HARPS  :     How  to  construct  Them, i 

AQUARIUMS: 

For  Sitting  Room  or  Conservatory — How  to  Build — -Selection  of  Water 

Plants  and  Fish — Treatment  of  Gold,  Silver  and  other  Fish,         .  1-s 

BASKETS: 

Of  Birch   Bark  and  Straw — Coral,  Alum  and  Allspice — Rustic  ones 

for  Flowers — "Woodsy"  Hanging  Ones,    .....  5-7 

BIRDS: 

Pairing — Care  of  them  while  Setting — Feeding  and  Raising  the 
Young — The  Moulting  Season — Diseases  and  Cures — Mocking 
Birds  ;  their  Food  and  Care — Outdoor  Homes  for  the  Songsters,  8-15 

BOXES  :     Carved  and  Engraved — Cigar  Boxes  Utilized,  .         .         .         15-16 

•BOUQUETS: 

Cutting  and  Arranging  Flowers — Vase  and  Hand  Bouquets — Flower 
Designs  and  Holders — To  Keep  Flowers  Fresh — Water  Bouquets 
for  Table  Adornment,         ........         16-20  " 

CABINETS  • 

How  to  Make  of  Ebonized  Wood — Arrangement  of  Shells  and  Min- 
erals, ...,...,,..         20-22 

CASTS :     Fruit,  Branches,  Birds,  Insects,  Etc.,     .         •         •         •         .  22 

CHAIRS :     Covering  and  Reseating,       ....,.•  23 

CHILDREN  : 

Indoor  Amusements — Dolls  of  every  D2Scription — Playhouses  and 
Furniture — Dolls'  Weddings  and  Costumes — To  Cover  Easy 
Chairs  for  the  Little  Folks — Home-made  Toys — New  England 
School  Houses — Picture   Scrap-Books, 23-32 

CORAL :     Artificial  Branches  and  Twigs, 32 

CORK  WORK : 

Churches  and  Cottages — Landscapes  and  Castles — Rural  Pictures  and 

Models 32-35 

CROSSES  FOR  CABINETS  :     Of   Quartz,  Minerals  and   Shells,  .  35 


vi  CONTENTS. 

CRYSTALLIZATIONS :  ,  pagb 

Ferns  and  Grasses — Fresh  Flowers — Frame  for  Winter  Scene — Mantel 

Ornaments — Ornamental  Glass  for  Doors  and  Windows,     „  ,         36-38 

THE  DAIRY: 

Care  of  Milk — To  Make  Good  Butter — Packing  Butter  for  Winter,     .         38-39 

DINING  ROOM  : 

Arranging-  the  Table — Flower  Decorations — The  Art  of  Carving — 
Breakfast  Parties — Christmas  and  New  Year's  Dinners — New 
Year's  Reception  Lunches,         .......         40-47 

DISHWASHING:     Utensils  and  Method, 47-48 

DUSTERS :     Home-made   Feather  Ones,      .         .  ....         4^  -49. 

EASTER  EGGS  :     Mottoes  and  Decorations,       .....         49-50 

EMBROIDERY  STITCHES  AND  DESIGNS  : 

Applique  Work — Crewel  Stitch — Kensington  Stitch — Moresque  Ap- 
plique— Silk  Embroidery,  .  .      ' 50-54 

ENTERTAINMENTS : 

Anniversary  Weddings — Coffee  or  Tea  Parties — Kettle  Drums — Lit- 
erary and  Dramatic  Clubs — Private  Theatricals — Preparing  the 
Stage  and  Scenery — Make-up  and  Wardrobe — Proverbs  and  Cha- 
rades— Picture  Galleries — Statuary  Representations — Tableaux 
Vivants, S4-63 

ETCHING: 

Designs  and  Material — Marking  and  Transferring — Luncheon  Doylies 

and  Tray  Covers,       .........         63-65 

FANCY  WORK : 

Afghans  —  Book  Covers — Blotters  —  Fancy  Cards  —  Carriage  Robes 
and  Saddle  Cloths  —  Chair  Bolsters  —  Comfortables  —  Dressing 
Case  and  Shav/1  Covers — Emery  Wheel  and  Thimble  Cases — 
Feather  Fans  and  Hand  Screens — Foot  Rests — Housewife  for 
Sewing  Implements — ^Jewel  and  Handkerchief  Boxes — Knife  and 
Fork  Cases — Knitting-pin  Sheaths  —  Laundry  Pin  —  Cushions — 
Lambrequin  Points  and  Valances — Music  Stands — Napkin  Rings — 
Ottomans — Ornamental  Patchwork — Pen  Wipers — Piano  Cov- 
ers— Pin  Cushions — Shaving  Cases — Suspenders — Silk  Purses — 
Sermon  Covers — Smoking  Caps — Sofa  Pillows — Scent  Sachets — 
Spectacle  or  Key  Cases — Sideboard  Cloths — Soiled  Linen  Re- 
ceptacles— Table  Covers — Traveling  Bags — Tea  Cosies — Tidies — 
Tobacco  Pouches — Umbrella  Cases — Wall  Pockets — Fancy  Work 
Aprons — Work  and  Scrap  baskets — Woven  Silk  Stripes — Work- 
basket  Notes,  containing  directions  for  utilizing  Silk  Scraps,  Bits 
of  Zephyr,  Ribbons  and  Laces,  etc.,     ......         65-84 

FERNS: 

Outdoor  Ferneries — To  Build  Wardian  Cases — Growing  Ferns  In- 
doors— Unique  Fern  Baskets — Gathering  and  Pressing  Ferns — 
Fern  and  Flower  Cards  and  Transparencies — Parlor  Fire  Screens 
made  of  Ferns,  .........         84-90 

FISH  SCALE  FLOWERS :     Jewelry  and    Embroidery,        ...  90 


CONTENTS.  vii 

FLOWERS :  page 

Preparing  the  Soil — Planting  the  Seed — Designs  for  Flower  Beds — 
Desirable  Bedding  Plants — Window  Gardening — Ornamental 
Window  Boxes  and  Stands — Vines  and  Ivies — Trellises  and 
Screens — Plants  for  Hanging  Baskets — Floral  Ornaments  for  Sit- 
ting Room — Greenhouses  and  Cold  Pits — Favorite  Plants  for  In- 
doors, Giving  the  Special  Treatment  of  Begonias,  Carnations, 
Fuchsias,  Geraniums,  Hyacinths,  Lilies,  Pansies,  Roses,  Tube- 
roses, Tulips  and  Verbenas — Propagating  Plants — Putting  and 
Re-potting — Exterminating  Insects  and  Worms — Soil  Fertilizers — 
Conservatory  Chat — Practical  Hints  on  Storing  Plants,  Watering, 
Soil,  Treatment,  Etc., 91-125 

GAMES : 

Fly,  feather,  fly — Gossip — Gypsy  Encampment — Handwriting  on  the 
Wall — Hunt  the  Fox — Kaleidoscope — Mandarins — Porco  Buff — 
Shadow  Buff,      ..........     125-128 

GLASS  : 

Carved  Jet  Crosses — Engraving,  Etching  and  Embossing — Imitation 

Ground  Glass — Painting  on  Ground  Glass,         ....     128-131 

GRASSES  :     When  to  Gather — How  to  Arrange,     .....     131-132 

HOLIDAY  FESTIVITIES  : 

"Compliments  of  the  Season"  Cards — Christmas  Decorations  for 
Home  and  Hall — Tree  Ornamentations — Garlands,  Wreaths, 
Mottoes  and  Emblems — Trimming  the  Church  for  Christmas  and 
Easter — Easter  Symbols  and  Altar  Crosses,         ....     132-139 

HOUSE  FURNISHING  : 

The  Foundation  of  Home — Artistic  Wall  Papers — Carpets  and 
Rugs — Window  Hangings — How  to  Drape  Them — Hea\7-  Cur- 
tains for  Parlor  and  Library — Sitting-room  and  Dining-room 
Curtains — Bed-room  Draperies — Portier^  and  Curtain  Bands — 
Window  Shades — Arrangement  of  Furniture  for  Vestibule  and 
Hall — Parlor  and  Library — Sitting  or  Family  Room — Artistic 
and  Ideal  Rooms — Inexpensive  Home  Rooms — Pretty  and  Taste- 
ful Homes  for  Working  Girls — The  Family  Dining-room — Bed- 
rooms— Home-made  Furniture — Fire  Places  and  Grates — Drape- 
ries and  Valances — Cabinets — Pictures — Screens  and  Easels — 
Ornamental  Odds  and  Ends,  comprising  Basket  Pails,  Boudoir 
Cushions,  Brush  Cases,  Banner  Screens,  Cabinet  Draperies,  Chair 
Cushions,  Hassocks,  Hour-glass  Work  Tables,  Japanese  Air  Cas- 
tles, Lamp  Shades,  Scent  Bottles,  Silhouette  Flower  Pots,  Tri- 
pod Stands,  Work  Baskets,  etc.,  ......     140-185 

HOUSE  KEEPING  : 

The  Kitchen — Care  of  Kitchen  Utensils — Serviceable  Suggestions  to 

Simplify  Work — Domestic  Cookery  Science,  etc..         .         .         .     186-197 

HOUSE  CLEANING: 

Where  to  Commence  and  How  to  Proceed  with  Beds  and  Bedding — 
Cupboards  and  Closets — Clothing  :  Repairing,  Cleansing  and 
Packing — Carpets  and  Floors — Chandeliers — Chromos  and  Paint- 


viii  CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

ings  —  Curtains  —  Cellars — Furs — Furniture  — Marble  — Mirrors — 
Moths  and  Insects  —  Paint  —  Steel  and  Brass — Siiverware-^Tin- 
ware — Walls  and  Paper — White-washing,   .         ,         .         .         .     197-206 

HUSK  MATS,  BEDS  AND  PILLOWS  : 

Preparing  the  Husks — Plaiting — To  keep  Sweet  and  Clean,        .         .     206-207 

KNITTING,  CROCHET  AND  LACE  : 

Instructions  to  Beginners — Knitting  Stitches — Crochet  Stitches — 
Fancy  Stitches  —  Lace  Stitches  —  Netting  Stitches  —  Afghan — 
Babies'  Boots — Children's  Caps  and  Bonnets — Knitted  Balls — 
Counterpanes — Children's  Dresses — Egg  Baskets — Fringe  and 
Border — Knitted  Horse  Reins — Ladies'  Leggings — Hoods — Imita- 
tion Coral — Lace  Insertions — Ladies'  Jerseys — Ladies'  Silk  Hose — 
Lace  for  Lingerie — Lace  Edging — Narrow  Lace  Edge — Silk  and 
Saxony  Mittens — Children's  Petticoats — Pillow  Case  Edging — Silk 
Purses — Rugs  and  Mats — Gentlemen's  Scarfs — Babies'  Sacques — 
Children's  Skirts — Shetland  Shawls — Infants'  Shirts  —  Bed-room 
Slippers — Babies'  Stockings  —  Knit  Towels — Gentleman's  Over- 
shoes— Wristlets — Wash  Cloths, 207-229 

THE  LAUNDRY  : 

Washing  Made  Easy — Clear  Starching — Removing  Fruit  Stains — Iron- 
ing and  Pol'shing — Washing  Fine  Things — Doing  Up  Laces  and 
Curtains — Silk  and  Embroidered  Handkerchiefs — Silk  and  Cotton 
Hose — Muslins,  Cambrics  and  Calicoes— Tablecloths — White  and 
Colored  Flannels — Washing  Compounds — How  to  Bleach  W^hite 
Goods — To  Make  Hard  Soap — Soft  or  Boiled  Soap — Renovating 
Soap — Timely  Suggestions,  Giving  Directions  for  Removing  Mil- 
dew, Scorch,  Stains ;  For  Washing  Miscellaneous  Articles,  Set- 
ting Colors,  Etc., 229-247 

MEDICAL  AND  HEALTH  :      / 

How  to  Keep  Well — Purifying  the  Yards — Fatness  and  Leanness — 
To  Prevent  Sea-sickness — The  Medicine  Chest — Simple  R<^me- 
dies  in  Sickness — Hop  and  Hemlock  Pillows  for  Sleeplessness — 
How  to  Care  for  the  Sick — State  of  the  Pulse  and  Lungs — Valu- 
able Advice  to  Mothers — Burns,  Bruises  and  Sprains — Ear-ache 
and  Nose  Bleeding — Bow-legs  and  Knock-knees — Nervous  Dis- 
eases— Sick  Headache — Congestive  Chills — Dyspepsia  and  its 
Cure — Treatment  of  the  Eye — A  Visit  with  the  Doctor,  who 
gives  Prescriptions  and  Remedies  for  all  common  complaints  and 
diseases,  including  Asthma,  Bee  Stings,  Colic,  Croup,  Choking, 
Canker-sore  Mouth,  Cuts  and  Wounds,  Colds  and  Hoarseness, 
Cold  Sores,  Ear-ache,  Diphtheria,  Felons,  Frosted  and  Perspiring 
Feet,  Corns,  Bunions,  Chilblains,  Ingrowing  Toe  Nails,  Hydro- 
phobia, Lockjaw,  Neuralgia,  Proud  Flesh,  Runrounds,  Sunstroke, 
Salt-rheum,  Swelled  Neck,  Snake-bites,  Tooth-ache,  Warts,  etc.,     247-276 

ANTIDOTES  FOR  POISONING, 276-277 

FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK  : 

Broths — Drinks — Gruels — Jellies — Teas— Syrups   and    Cordials,  .     277-283 


CONTJ£JVTS.  ix 

MUSICAL  CHIMES:  page 

Instrumental  Music — Practicing  Exercises — The  Care  of  Instruments 
— Remarks  about  Vocalism — Breathing  Exercises — Strengthening 
the  Voice — The  Children's  Concert,      ......     283-290 

OSTRICH  FEATHERS  :     Curhng,  Cleaning  and  Dyeing,     .       .         ,     290-291 

OYSTER  CANS  :     How  they  may  be  Made  Useful,         ....  292 

PAINTING : 

Hints  to  Amateur  Artists — Fancy  Woods  Used — Subjects,  Designs 
and  Colors — China  and  Porcelain  Painting — Chromo  Photography 
— Fan  Painting  ;  Colors,  Designs  and  Materials  Used — To  Take 
Impressions  of  Leaves — Japanese  Lacquer  Work — Panels  for 
Doors  and  Screens — Pastel  and  Colored  Crayons — Potichimania 
—  Marine  Views  for  Shells  —  Screen  Designs  —  Studio  Hints  — 
Transfer  Work, 292-309 

PAPER  LANDSCAPES, ,309 

PERFUMERY :     To  Make  from  Fresh  Flowers, 310 

PICTURES  : 

Mounting  and  Hanging — Embroidered  Picture  Frames — Passepar- 
tout Frame . — Oil  Paintings  and  Engravings — Velvet  Pictures — 
Varnishing  Chromos  and  Lithographs,       .....     310-313 

PLASTER  CASTS  :     Beautifying  and  Cleaning, 313-3x4 

PRESSED  AUTUMN  LEAVES  :     Gathering  and  Arranging  Them,     .     314-315 

PRESSED  FLOWERS  : 

Selection — H^ow  to  Piess — Flower  Albums  and  Journals,         ,         ,     316-317 

PRESERVING  FLOWERS   AND    FRUIT, 317-31S 

PLANT   SPECIMENS  :     Collecting— Pressing  and  Labeling,  .         .  3ich-32o 

ROCKERIES  AND  GROTTOES, 320-321 

ROSE  JARS  AND  PILLOWS  : 

For  Perfuming  Parlor  and  Sitting  Room. 321-322 

HOME-MADE  RUGS  AND  CARPETS,         .         .  •      .         .         .         .     322-324 

RUSTIC  WORK : 

Of  Lichens,  Moss  and  Twigs  —  For  Home  Decoration  —  Cigar  Ash 
Bowl — Fern  and  Flower  Stands — The  Art  of  Modeling — Rural 
Picture  Scenes — Rustic  Cottages  and  Landscapes,         .         ,         .     324-330 

SCRAP  BOOKS : 

For    Engravings    and     Paintings  —  Registers    for    Keeping    Family 

Records,     ...........     330-332 

SEA  WEED  SPECIMENS : 

Preparing,  Pressing  and  Mounting — For  Albums,  Lyres  and  Crosses,     332-334 
SHELLS  :    Coloring  and  Etching — Shell  Flowers,         ....     335-337 


SHEETING  WAX, 


337 


SKELETONIZED  LEAVES  : 

Gathering,  Selecting,  Bleaching  and  Arranging,         .         .         •         ,     337-339 


X  CONTENTS. 

SPATTER   WORK:  page 

Materials — How  to  Proceed — To  Make  a  Cross,    Anchor,    Screen — 

Photographic  Method,         .........     340-341 

SUMMER  HINTS: 

The  Art  of  Keeping  Cool — Suitable  Food,  Drinks  and  Clothing — To 

Get  Rid  of  Flies,  Mosquitoes,  Etc.,      ......     342-345 

THE  TOILET: 

How  to  be  Beautiful — Dressing  Table  Appointments — Cologne  and 
Sachet  Powders — Care  of  the  Skin  ;  removing  Moth  Patches,  Yel- 
low Spots,  Freckles,  Wrinkles,  Moles,  Tan,  Pimples — Cosmetics 
and  Lotions — Bathing  and  Soaps — Care  of  the  Teetti — Treat- 
ment of  the  Hair — The  Hands  and  Nails,      .....     346-362 

TAXIDERMY  :    Stuffing  and  Mounting  Birds 363 

WOODS: 

A  Filler  for  Porus  Woods — Ebonizing  Wood — Staining  and  Color- 
ing— Imitation  of  Black  Walnut — Painted  or  Stained  Floors — 
Painting  and  Graining — Varnishing  and  Polishing,     ,        ,         .     364-369 


PART  II. 


BILLS  OF  FARE : 

Breakfasts  for  Spring,  Summer,  Autumn  and  Winter — Sunday  Break- 
fasts— Sunday  Dinners — Thanksgiving  Dinners — Christmas  and 
New  Year's  Dinners — Suppers — Sunday  Meals  and  Lunches — 
Home,  Picnic  and  Traveling  Lunches — New  Year's  Reception 
Lunches, 373-378 

ALLOWANCE  OF  SUPPLIES  FOR  ENTERTAINMENTS,    .         .     378-379 

BREAD  MAKING. 

First  Principles  —  To  Tell  Good  Flour  —  Kneading  and  Baking  — 
To  Make  Dry  and  Hop  Yeast  —  Salt-rising  and  Railroad  Emp- 
tyings —  Com,  Graham  and  Wheat  Bread  —  Crackers,      .         .     379-387 

BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  DISHES : 

Biscuit,  Rolls  and  Rusks — Eggs — Fritters — Griddle  Cakes— Muffins 
— Omelets — Porridge  and  Mush — Toast — Waffles,        .         .         .     387-407 

CAKE  MAKING  : 

Compounding  and  Baking  — Wedding  Cake  Ornaments  —  Fancy  and 
Plain  Frosting — All  Sorts  of  Cake  :  Fruit,  Loaf,  Spice,  Molasses, 
Puffs,  Macaroons,  Kisses,  Etc.  —  Cookies,  Snaps  and  Jumbles — 
Crullers  and  Doughnuts — Layer  Cakes, 408-437 

CATSUPS  AND  SAUCES  : 

How  to  Compound  Them — Of  Fruits  and  Vegetables — For  Fish  and 

Meats, 437-445 


CONTENTS,  xi 

CONFECTIONERY:  page 

To  Make  Candy,  Caramels,  Drops,  Popcorn  Balls,  Etc.,  .         .     445-450 

CREAMS  AND  CUSTARU^  :     Tor  Cakes  and  Tea  Sauces,  .         .     451-456 

DRINKS  : 

Coffee,  Chocolate  and   Tea — Summer  Drinks  ;    Mead,    Soda,    Beer, 

Lemonade — Home-made  Wines.         ......     456-468 

EXTRACTS  AND  SYRUPS :     For  Flavoring:,       .         .         .         .         .     ^x^^l^ 

FISH: 

How  to  Select— The  Ways  of  Cooking  Trout,  Turbot,  Shad,  Smelts, 
White  Fish,  Mackerel,  Salt  Fish,  Herring,  Salmon — Miscellaneous 
Dishes  and  Stews,       .........     47i-48r 

FRUITS  : 

Fresh  Fruits  for  Table  Use — Arranging  them  for  Dessert — Fruit  Pieces 

— Sugared  and  Iced  Fruits — Fruit  Sauces  for  Tea,        .  .         .     481-490 

CANNED  FRUIT  AND  VEGETABLES  : 

The  Method  of  Canning — By  Hot  and  Cold  Process — Large  and  Small 

Fruits — Peas,  Corn  and  Beans,   .......     490-497 

DRIED  AND  CANDIED  FRUITS 497-498 

SPICED  FRUITS,         . 499-500 

GAME: 

How  to  Lard,  Broil  and  Roast — Large  and  Small  Game  ;  Ducks, 
Grouse,  Pigeons,  Quails,  Rabbits,  Squirrel  ,  Venibon  and  Wood- 
cock, ...........     500-505 

ICES  AND  ICE  CREAMS  : 

To  Prepare  and  Freeze — Cream,  Fruit  and  Water  Ices,  ,         .     506-5 1 1 

JAMS  AND  JELLIES  : 

Selection  of  Fruit — How  to  Proceed  with  Same,         ....     511-519 

MEATS : 

General  Remarks  on  Selection — Salt  and  Fresh  Meat — How  to  Prepare 
for  Baking,  Broiling,  Frying  and  Roasting — Beef,  Lamb,  Mutton, 
Veal,  Pork,  Tongue,  Heart,  Liver,  Venison  —  Miscellaneous 
Meat  Dishes,       .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         ...     520-538 

MEAT  AND  FISH  PIES, 538-540 

PASTRY  : 

To  Make  Pie  Crust— Puff  Paste— Pies  and  Tartlets— Fruit  and  Sauce 

for  Same — FilHng  and  Baking,    .......     540-551 

PUDDINGS  : 

Of  Every  Sort  and   Description — Dumplings — Miscellaneous  Dessert 

Dishes, 551-566 

PUDDING  SAUCES 567-569 

PICKLES  : 

Both  Sour  and  Sweet — Good  Vinegar — Pickling  Fruit  and  Vegetables — 

Chopped  and  Mixed  Pickles — Chow-Chow,  Picalilli  and  Mangoes,     569-584 


CONTENTS. 


POULTRY  :  page 

Market  Hints — To  Choose  Young  and  Tender  Fowls — How  to  Dress 

and  Cook  Them, ■  .         .     584-591 

PRESERVES  AND  MARMALADES  : 

Time-table  for  Boih'ng-  and  Amount  of  Sugar  to  be  Used — How  to 

Proceed  with  the  Vaiious  Fruits,         ......     591-601 

SALADS : 

Preparing  the  Vegetables  —  How  to  Dress  and  Serve  —  Fish,  Meat, 

Fmit  and  Vegetable  Salads, 601-608 

SANDWICHES:     For  Home,  Traveling  and  Picnic  Lunches         •         .     608-61© 
SHELL  FISH  : 

The  Many  Ways  of  Cooking — Clams — Lobsters,  Turtles  and  Oysters,     610-619 

SOUPS  : 

The  Basis  of  all  Good  Soups — Soup  Paste  and  Balls — Fish,  Meat  and 

Vegetable  Soups  and  Stews, 619-626 

VEGETABLES : 

How  to  Prepare — Cook  and  Serve — Plain  and  Fancy  Dishes,     .         .     626-641 

COOK'S  TIME  TABLE  : 

Giving  Mode  of  Preparation  and  Time  of  Cooking,     .       .         ,         .  642 

TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES, 643 

UTENSILS  :    Necessary  in  the  Kitchen  of  a  Small  Family,     ...  644 


^OLIAISr  HARPS. 

These  harps  consist  of  an  oblong  box  of  thin  deal  board  about  five 
or  six  inches  deep,  with  a  circle  drawn  in  the  middle  of  the  upper  side 
an  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter,  around  which  are  to  be  drilled  small 
holes.  Along  the  upper  side  of  the  box  seven,  ten  or  more  small  strings 
of  very  fine  gut  are  stretched  over  bridges  near  each  end,  like  the 
bridge  of  a  violin,  and  tightened  or  relaxed  with  screw  pins.  The 
strings  must  be  tuned  to  one  and  the  same  note,  and  the  instrument 
placed  in  some  current  of  air  where  the  wind  can  pass  over  its  strings 
with  freedom.  A  window,  the  width  of  which  is  exactly  equal  to  the 
length  of  the  harp,  with  the  sash  first  raised  to  give  the  air  admission, 
is  a  good  situation.  When  the  wind  blows  upon  the  strings,  with  vari- 
ous degrees  of  force,  different  musical  tones  will  be  sounded  ;  some- 
times the  blast  brings  out  all  the  tones  in  full  concert,  and  sometimes 
it  sinks  them  to  the  softest  murmur.  In  many  old  castles  these  harps 
were  fastened  in  the  windows,  and  thfiirwild  music  caused  the  ignorant 
to  think  they  were  haunted. 

Simply  tying  waxed  saddlers'  silk  to  little  sticks  and  pushing  them 
into  the  crevices  of  windows,  so  as  to  secure  a  draft  of  wind  (the  silk 
being  strained  tight)  will  produce  very  sweet  sounds. 


AQUARIUMS. 

FOR  THE  SITTING-ROOM. 

The  fresh-water  aquarium,  or  drawing-room  fish  pond,  is  a  pleasing 
and  interesting  ornament  for  a  city  or  suburban  town.  It  is  cheaply 
and  easily  made,  and  requires  but  little  care.  Comparatively  few  per- 
sons can  adorn  their  homes  with  costly  pictures  and  statues,  but  almost 
anyone  with  a  love  of  nature  and  art  can  have  an  aquarium,  fulfilling 
in  miniature  realities  the  glowing  and  poetic  water  legends  of  Northern 
and  Oriental  climes.  It  is  the  expression  of  the  cultured  taste,  more 
than  the  embellishment  of  wealth,  that  makes  a  charming  home. 

A  tank  for  a  fresh- water  aquarium  may  be  constructed  of  four  plates 
of  glass,  with  a  large  piece  of  slate,  marble  or  metal  for  the  bottom  ; 
or  the  tank  may  be  made  wholly  of  metal  and  set  like  a  large  sink  in  a 
bay  or  oriel  window  ;  or  one  may  be  constructed  of  a  seamless  bowl  or 

1 


2  AQUARIUMS. 

tub,  either  earthen  or  wooden ;  if  the  latter,  all  seams  (providing  a 
seamless  one  cannot  be  obtained)  must  be  made  water-tight  by  the  use 
of  a  cement  manufactured  for  the  purpose,  and  sold, as  "aquarium 
cement."  No  lead  or  paint  must  be  where  the  water  can  touch  it.  The 
placing  of  this  bowl  will  call  into  use  your  artistic  fancies ;  it  may  be 
surrounded  upon  a  stand  with  earth  and  rocks,  among  which  may  be 
planted  the  drooping  vines  of  the  house  plants  and  others  that  may 
suggest  themselves,  though  not  surrounded  with  plants  so  thickly  as  to 
darken  the  pool,  for  fish  enjoy  a  little  sunlight — but  do  not  broil  them. 

SELECTION  OF  WATER  PLANTS. 

These  can  be  procured  from  brooks  and  ponds  near  at  hand.  A 
good  way  to  plant  them  is  to  tie  a  small  pebble  to  the  roots  or  base  of 
stems  and  sink  them  below  the  surface  of  the  bed.  The  arrangement 
of  the  plants  should  be  made  with  regard  to  the  best  effect,  the  smallest 
plants  being  placed  in  front  and  the  tallest  in  the  center  or  at  the  back 
of  the  tank. 

A  tank  of  water-plants  can  be  made  quite  as  ornamental  as  a  fernery, 
while  the  fish,  snails  and  mussels  prove  very  attractive  to  all  beholders, 
old  as  well  as  young. 

Among  the  best  varieties  of  water-plants  are  :  Arrowhead,  a  very 
common  plant  in  brooks  and  treeks,  which  has  white  flowers  with 
golden  centers  and  arrowhead-shaped  leaves*;  eel-grass  is  a  very  popu- 
lar plant  for  aquaria,  as  its  habitat  is  in  slow-moving  waters  ;  water- 
nymph,  a  slender,  thread-like  plant,  with  knot-like  lobes  ;  water-feather, 
a  lovely  little  plant,  a  gem  for  the  aquarium;  water-cress,  water-mill- 
foil.  After  all  the  plants  are  arranged,  throw  in  a  few  lemna  minor,  or 
duckweeds,  which  are  tiny,  stemless,  floating  plants  that  harbor  minute 
insects  that  are  delicacies  for  the  fish. 

The  plants  should  be  planted  in  good  soil,  in  saucers  or  similarly  low 
dishes,  then  procure  some  coarse  gravel,  sand,  fine  sand,  white  gravel 
or  pebble  stones,  a  few  common  rough  stones,  and  three  or  four  larger 
ones,  with  which  to  construct  a  miniature  arch,  placing  the  closed 
ends  of  the  arch  toward  the  ends  of  the  tank,  in  order  that  the  fish  may 
not  hide  themselves  beneath,  as  they  will  be  sure  to  do.  Place  a  layer 
of  the  coarse  sand  over  the  bottom,  then  the  saucers  containing  the 
plants  upon  the  sand ;  construct  the  arch  firmly  by  the  use  of  a  little 
cement,  and  so  arrange  the  balance  of  material  that  when  finished  the 
bottom  will  be  one  of  apparent  sand  and  gravel,  with  mounds,  ridges, 
etc.  A  few  small  shells  of  the  most  ordinary  kind  will  add  to  its  pic- 
turesqueness. 

The  tank  is  now  ready  for  the  water.  Fill  about  one-quarter  full  and 
let  it  stand  for  a  day,  then  dip  out  a  part  of  the  water  and  replace  with 
fresn.     This  treatment  must  be  contwiued  from  day  to  day  until  the 


SUITABLE  FISH  FOR    WATER  LIFE.  3 

water  in  the  tank  shall  be  clear  and  clean  ;  ordinary  soft  water — brook, 
spring  or  pure  cistern — required.  Fill  the  tank  within  about  two  inches 
of  the  top,  and  it  is  ready  for  the  fish.  The  smaller  they  are  the  larger 
the  number  that  may  be  put  together. 

SUITABLE  FISH  FOR  WATER  LIFE. 

After  the  plants  and  rocks  are  arranged  the  former  must  have  time 
to  become  accustomed  to  their  new  home  before  the  fish  are  put  in.  A 
fortnight  is  none  too  long  for  the  aquarium  to  remain  tenantless.  If  a 
green  film  overspreads  the  glass  it  shows  there  are  too  many  plants  for 
the  water,  and  they  have  had  too  much  light,  It  is  a  good  plan  to  paste 
thin  green  paper  on  all  sides  of  the  glass  up  to  the  water-line,  excepting 
in  front,  even  when  the  fish  are  put  in,  because  it  subdues  the  light,  and 
gives  the  fish  a  more  natural  home,  and  makes  it  more  healthful. 

In  selecting  fishes  for  the  aquarium,  gold  and  silver  fish  will  of  course 
have  the  first  choice,  and  after  that  the  minnows.  The  beauty  of  these 
fish,  their  habits  and  the  management  they  require  are  too  well  kiK)wn 
for  an  extended  notice  in  a  necessarily  brief  article.  The  perch  is  a 
suitable  fish  for  a  fresh  water  aquarium,  for  a  reason  that  may  not  be 
well  known.  It  is  one  of  the  few  fishes  that  may  be  trained,  and  made 
to  show  its  docility  by  taking  food  from  the  fingers.  The  pike,  which 
is  the  shark  of  fresh  water,  may  be  put  into  an  aquarium  with  gold 
fish  and  perch,  but  not  with  other  fishes.  Even  with  the  gold  fish  it  is 
not  fully  to  be  trusted,  as  when  hungry  it  has  been  known  to  eat  its  own 
species. 

The  trout  is  a  handsome  fish,  with  its  crimson,  spotted  sides,  but,  Hke 
the  pike,  it  must  be  well  fed  and  kept  away  from  smaller  fishes.  The 
eel  may  be  used  with  safety — a  small  one,  and  frogs  may  be  kept  with 
larger  fish. 

The  merot  may  also  be  added  to  the  happy  family,  notwithstanding 
the  antipathy  against  it  on  account  of  its  resemblance  to  the  lizard  ;  it 
is  perfectly  harmless.  During  the  breeding  season  it  exhibits  a  variety 
of  shining  colors — orange,  olive,  green,  with  a  mottling  of  brown  and 
scarlet.  The  water  spider  is  a  curious  insect,  and,  if  possible,  should 
be  secured  for  the  aquarium.  It  spends  the  greater  part  of  its  time 
beneath  the  water,  coming  to  the  surface  to  seize  its  prey,  and  to  obtain 
a  fresh  supply  of  air  for  its  sub-aquatic  home.  Reclining  figures  of 
plaster  may  be  added,  and  if  the  tank  be  a  large  one,  an  artificial  island 
of  stones,  mosses  and  ferns,  with  a  siphon  fountain,  may  be  in  the 
middle. 

Feed  your  fish  all  the  worms,  meat  or  fish  spawn  that  they  will  eat. 
Take  great  care  to  take  all  that  they  do  not  eat  out  of  the  aquarium ; 
any  decayed  meat  or  vegetables  in  water  have  the  same  smell  to  fish 
that  it  has  to  you  in  the  air.     Two  snails  added  will  act  as  scavengers. 


4  AQUARIUMS. 

Do  not  handle,  the  fish,  but  take  them  out  with  a  net  made  of  mos- 
quito netting.  An  aquarium  properly  stocked  and  managed  is  hardly 
any  trouble,  and  it  affords  a  great  deal  of  pleasure. 

Never  feed  the  fish  crackers  or  other  food,  for  it  fills  their  gills  and 
suffocates  them.  With  the  above  hints,  nearly  every  one  can  make  a 
home  for  the  fish  and  keep  them,  if  they  do  not  neglect  them,  for  many 
years. 

The  best  position  for  an  aquarium  is  in  a  window  looking  towards 
the  east,  where  it  will  not  have  more  than  two  hours  of  the  morning 
sun.  If  such  a  location  cannot  be  given,  put  it  in  a  southern  window, 
but  shade  from  the  noonday  sun.  A  western  or  northern  aspect  is 
never  desirable  for  an  aquarium.  The  temperature  is  also  of  impor- 
tance. It  should  range  from  45  to  70  degrees  Fahrenheit.  If  the  water 
becomes  too  warm  the  fish  will  die.     If  it  freezes,  the  tank  may  burst. 

'      'care  of  gold  and  silver  fish. 

Take  a  bell  glass  that  will  hold  about  two  gallons  of  water  ,  ^d  set 
it  into  a  box  two  feet  long,  twelve  inches  wide,  and  eight  or  ten  inches 
high,  or  of  any  dimensions  desired.  Fill  the  box  with  a  mixture  of 
silver  sand,  leaf  mold  and  earth,  placing  your  inverted  glass  in  the  cen- 
ter of  the  box ;  around  this  place  ferns  and  lycopodium  ;  cover  the  box 
with  glass,  so  that  it  will  be  nearly  air-tight,  to  retain  the  moisture. 
The  plants  will  require  water  about  once  a  month ;  in  the  bell  glass 
make  a  thick  bed  of  sand,  pebbles  and  small  shells,  and  fill  with  per- 
fectly pure  water,  and  two  gold  fish  or  minnows,  and  a  few  aquatic 
plants,  as  they,  under  the  action  of  the  light,  consume  the  carbonic  acid 
gas  given  forth  by  the  fish,  and  restore  to  the  water  the  oxygen  neces- 
sary to  the  maintenance  of  life.  Snails  are  useful  also  to  act  as  scaven- 
gers to  consume  the  vegetable  matter  thrown  off  by  the  plants,  and 
render  it  unnecessary  to  change  the  water  so  frequently,  which  would 
otherwise  become  greenish  and  untransparent.  A  change  once  a  week 
will  keep  the  fish  in  good  health ;  but  an  aquarium  fairly  estabUshed  with 
a  proper  proportion  of  plants  and  fish  will  preserve  its  healthfulness 
without  change  of  water,  more  than  to  fill  it  up  as  the  water  evaporates. 
A  still  more  desirable  plan  is  to  invert  the  bell  glass  in  a  thick  block  of 
wood,  in  any  way  that  will  hold  it  firmly  ;  the  block  may  be  planted, 
and  decorated  according  to  taste,  and  may  be  made  very  ornamental ; 
then  for  "  stocking  "  follow  the  directions  given  above. 

For  a  marine  aquarium  the  "sea  coast"  affords  many  a  "treasure 
trove,"  the  sea  anemones,  those  strange  and  fascinating  existences,  half 
fish  and  half  blossom,  may  be  found  on  the  coast  of  Maine.  Each 
shore  has  its  specialty.  The  bay  abounds  in  sea  weeds  of  a  lovely  tint, 
while  the  beaches  are  rich  in  shells — all  of  which  contribute  to  make 
an  aquarium  an  object  of  interest  and  source  of  enjoyment.     They 


BASKETS,  5 

should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place — never  exposed  to  a  burning  sun  or 
the  heat  of  a  fire.  Too  many  should  never  be  crow^ded  into  one  glass. 
A  few  branches  of  box  should  be  kept  in  the  globe  for  them  to  rub 
against,  which  should  be  changed  once  a  week.  Many  persons  fancy 
that  gold  and  silver  fish  need  no  food.  It  is  true  that  they  will  subsist 
for  a  long  time  with  nothing  but  water  when  it  is  pure  and  frequently 
changed.  They  are  best  pleased  with  such  diet  as  bread  or  biscuit ; 
but  these  should  be  given  sparingly,  lest,  turning  sour,  they  corrupt  the 
water.  They  will  also  feed  on  the  aquatic  plant  called  lemna,  or 
duckweed,  and  also  on  small  fry.  Fine  gravel  should  be  strewed  at 
the  bottom  of  the  vessel  that  contains  the  fish  ;  and  they  should  be 
fed  on  bread  and  gentles,  and  have  their  water  frequently  changed. 

You  can  easily  tell  when  a  fish  is  falling  off  in  his  health  by  observing 
him  frequently  coming  up  to  the  surface  of  the  water  for  air.  This 
shows  he  has  not  sufficient  power  in  his  gills  to  extract  the  air  from 
the  water.  He  also  looks  dull,  and  his  motions  are  languid  ;  a  hazy 
or  cobwebby  appearance  likewise  seems  to  envelop  his  body,  and  per- 
haps some  of  the  scales  will  drop  off.  When  a  fish  goes  into  this 
unhealthy  state,  he  should  be  immediately  removed  from  the  others, 
who  should  have  fresh  water  given  them  several  days  in  succession. 
The  best  remedy  for  diseased  fish  is  to  put  them  into  a  pond  for  a  few 
weeks ;  and  it  is  especially  necessary  for  female  fish,  which,  if  not  so 
treated,  frequently  die  for  want  of  spawning.  A  fish  is  sometimes 
saved  by  being  placed  in  a  little  artificial  dam,  made  from  some  running 
stream  in  a  garden,  for  two  or  three  days  ;  but  their  diseases  are  at  all 
times  very  difficult  to  remedy.  The  best  way  is  to  prevent  them  by  pre- 
cautionary measures — plenty  of  room  and  pure  water. 


BASKETS. 


"WOODSY"  HANGING  ONES. 


Take  a  piece  of  the  rough  tree  bark  with  the  moss  clinging  to  it ; 
cut  it  out  into  a  pretty  shape  and  use  it  for  the  back.  Make  the  front 
of  birch  bark  and  sew  to  the  back  with  fine  wire,  which  can  be  done  by 
punching  fine  holes  for  the  wire ;  if  small  twigs  are  put  at  the  side  and 
corners,  it  will  look  "woodsy"  enough  to  satisfy  the  most  ardent  lover 
of  nature.     This  can  be  filled  with  moss,  dried  grasses  and  leaves. 

Among  trees  that  have  just  been  felled  some  may  be  found  with  slen- 
der trunks.  Cut  a  piece  from  one  of  these  about  a  foot  long,  more  or 
less,  as  you  choose,  remove  the  bark,  saw  off  the  top  flat  on  th€  lengthy 
side  and  scoop  out  the  interior,  leaving  about  one  inch  or  less  of  thick- 
ness on  the  sides  and  bottom  ;  paint  of  a  brown  color  and  varnish,  tack 


6  BASKETS. 

on  the  sides  either  a  chain,  ribbon  or  card  to  hang  it  by ;  fill  the  trunk 
with  artificial  moss  and  flowers,  and  you  have  a  hanging  basket  unique 
in  its  way. 

BIRCH  BARK  AND  STRAW. 

A  pretty  basket  for  shopping  purposes  can  be  made  of  birch  bark,  by 
cutting  it  in  the  shape  of  the  fiat  straw  baskets  that  close  at  the  top, 
lined  with  silk,  shirred  at  the  top  and  drawn  up  with  a  draw-string. 
Where  the  edges  are  joined  cover  with  ribbon  and  stich  with  machine. 
You  can  stitch  birch  bark  the  same  as  a  piece  of  cloth. 

The  pretty  straw  baskets  that  flowers  are  offered  in  can,  when  the 
flowers  are  withered,  be  used  for  Lake  Superior  mosses,  grasses,  autumn 
leaves  or  ferns.  Then  the  money  spent  for  them  does  not  seem  wasted, 
for  they  can  be  converted  into  pretty  objects  for  the  center-table.  The 
smaller  ones  can  be  left  filled  with  sand,  and  if  dampened  occasionally 
flowers  may  be  kept  for  a  long  time  in  them. 

RUSTIC  ONES  FOR  FLOWERS. 

One  of  the  prettiest  is  made  by  taking  a  common  horse  muzzle,  made 
of  wire,  and  have  it  painted,  with  oil  colors,  green.  Then,  when  dry, 
take  large  pieces  or  sheets  of  the  bright  green  moss  which  abounds  in 
the  woods  and  by  the  roadsides  in  the  spring  and  line  the  inside  with  it, 
letting  the  green  side  be  turned  outward.  Then  fill  up  the  center  with 
earth  and  plant  your  vines  and  flowers,  three  cords  being  fastened  to 
the  top  wire  at  regular  distances,  by  which  it  is  to  be  hung  up.  It  can 
be  watered  occasionally  and  the  moss  freshened  by  dipping  it  into  a 
bucket  of  water. 

Another  variety  is  the  rustic  style,  so  popular  and  beautiful.  In  order 
to  make  one  of  these  procure  from  the  woods  a  number  of  crooked 
branches  and  rough,  knotty  twigs.  Put  them  to  soak  in  hot  water,  or 
steam  them,  so  as  to  render  them  perfectly  pliable.  Get  one  of  the 
turned  wooden  bowls,  such  as  are  to  be  found  in  house  furnishing 
stores ;  stain  it  with  some  of  the  brown  staining  materials  or  black  var- 
nish, and  then  bore  holes  or  insert  screw  ririgs  on  the  outside  for  the 
cords  or  chains  to  pass  through.  Now  bend  around  the  outside  of  the 
bowl  one  of  the  branches  and  nail  it  securely  at  the  top  edges  on  either 
side.  Sex^eral  pieces  can  be  twined  around  in  this  way,  according  to 
one's  taste,  until  the  whole  surface  is  covered ;  then  finish  off  with  one 
around  the  edge  for  a  border.  When  this  is  varnished  it  is  very  pretty, 
and  the  vines  will,  of  course,  be  trained  to  hang  over  the  edge. 

CORAL,  ALUM  AND  ALLSPICE. 

To  make  coral  baskets — take  flowers  and  sprays  of  all  shapes  and 
kinds  of  bonnet  or  hoop-skirt  wire,  wound  with  fine  thin  cloth ;  take  one 


CORAL,  ALUM  AND  ALLSPICE.  7 

ounce  of  resin  and  dissolve  it  in  a  brass  pan  with  two  drachms  of  the 
finest  Vermillion  and  thoroughly  mix  them  ;  then  take  your  basket  twigs 
and  dip  them  into  the  solution  till  they  are  well  dyed.  Pretty  brackets 
can  be  made  in  the  same  way.  Some  persons  dissolve  red  sealing-wax 
in  alcohol  to  form  coral ;  powder  the  wax,  and  fill  in  as  much  as  the 
alcohol  will  dissolve. 

Success  in  alum  baskets  depends  upon  chance,  for  the  crystals  vdll 
form  iregularly,  even  when  the  utmost  care  is  taken.  Dissolve  alum  in 
a  little  more  than  twice  as  much  water  as  will  be  necessary  to  cover  the 
basket,  handle  and  all.  Put  in  as  much  alum  as  the  water  will  dissolve. 
The  water  should  be  hot.  When  the  water  is  entirely  saturated,  pour 
it  into  a  saucepan  or  earthen  jar  (by  no  means  put  it  into  an  iron  ves- 
sel) and  slowly  boil  it,  until  it  is  nearly  evaporated.  The  basket  should 
then  be  suspended  from  a  little  stick,  laid  across  the  top  of  the  jar,  in 
such  a  manner  that  both  basket  and  handle  will  be  covered  by  the  solu- 
tion. It  must  be  set  away  in  a  cool  place,  where  not  the  slightest 
motion  will  disturb  the  formation  of  the  crystals.  The  frame  may  be 
made  in  any  fancied  shape.  It  is  usually  made  of  small  wire,  woven  in 
and  out  Hke  basket  work ;  but  a  common  willow  basket  may  be  used  as 
a  frame  for  either  the  coral  or  alum  baskets.  Whether  it  is  of  wire  or 
willow,  a  rough  surface  must  be  produced  by  winding  every  part  with 
thread  or  worsted.  If  wire  already  covered  is  used  it  will  save  the 
trouble  of  winding.  Irregular  knots  of  the  worsted  left  all  over  it  with 
a  few  ends  is  quite  an  improvement.  Bright  yellow  crystals  may  be 
produced  by  boiling  gamboge,  saffron  or  turmeric  in  the  alum  solution. 
Litmus  boiled  in  will  give  bright  red  crystals ;  logwood  will  form  purple. 
The  colors  will  be  more  or  less  deep,  according  to  the  quantity  used. 
Splendid  blue  crystals  may  be  obtained  by  preparing  the  sulphate  of 
copper,  commonly  called  blue  vitriol,  in  the  same  manner  as  alum  is 
prepared.     Care  must  be  taken  not  to  drop  it  on  the  clothes. 

Allspice  baskets  are  made  of  the  berries.  They  should  be  soaked  in 
spirits  to  soften  them  and  then  holes  made  through  them.  They  are 
strung  on  slender  wires,  which  are  twisted  or  woven  into  diamonds  or 
squares  and  then  formed  into  baskets.  These  can  also  be  strung  on 
thread  and  made  over  a  circle  of  wire,  forming  long  loops  like  a  tassel. 
A  gold  band  twisted  between  the  berries  gives  a  lively  effect.  Around 
the  top  are  sometimes  twisted  semi-circles  of  berries,  from  which  are 
suspended  festoons  of  berries  strung  on  silk,  drooping  over  the  outside. 
The  baskets  may  be  lined  with  bright  colored  silk  and  ornamented  with 
ribbons.  Baskets  can  be  made  of  cloves  in  the  same  way,  by  taking  off 
the  berry  and  soaking  the  long  part  in  spirits.  Bead  baskets  are  also 
made  in  the  same  way ;  the  wire  should  be  the  color  of  the  beads. 
Cut-glass  beads  are  most  desirable,  as  they  glitter  prettily  and  are  of 
great  beauty  in  a  Christmas  tree. 


BIRDS, 


BIRDS. 

PAIRING  BIRDS. 

For  pairing  canaries  the  best  time  is  the  last  of  February.  Birds 
which  are  to  be  paired  for  the  first  time  should  be  previously  placed  in 
the  same  cage  for  seven  or  eight  days,  in  order  to  become  acquainted 
and  accustomed  to  live  together.  Either  one  male  and  one  or  two 
females  are  placed  in  a  large  cage,  or  many  of  both  sexes  are  united  in 
a  room  or  aviary,  having  the  advantage  of  a  south  aspect. 

Nests  made  of  turned  wood,  or  osiers,  are  given  them,  as  straw  ones 
are  too  easily  torn.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  place  in  the  room  or  aviary 
slips  of  pine,  which  being  cut  in  February  do  not  lose  their  leaves. 
It  is  rare  for  the  male  to  sit  in  his  turn  during  some  hours  of  the  day, 
the  female  seldom  allowing  it,  for  as  soon  as  she  has  eaten  she  flies 
back  to  her  nest.  If  the  male  gives  up  his  place  readily,  so  much  the 
better ;  if  not,  she  drives  him  away  by  force  and  by  pecking  him.  She 
appears  to  know  his  want  of  skill  in  this  employment. 

Many  cross-breed  goldfinches  with  canaries.  A  male  goldfinch  and 
a  hen  canary  will  breed  birds  far  superior  to  either  of  their  parents,  both 
in  plumage  and  song.  The  handsomest  singers  are  produced  from  a 
canary  of  a  pure  golden-yellow  and  a  full-grown  garden  goldfinch. 

Whatever  be  the  size  and  shape  of  your  cage,  avoid  brass  wire  or 
ornaments,  and  painted  wires  of  all  colors,  but  especially  green.  A 
movable  floor  is  indispensable  to  cleanliness.  Of  wooden  cages,  those 
made  of  mahogany  are  best,  being  almost  impervious  to  vermin,  and 
the  inside  should  have  two  or  three  coats  of  white  oil  paint. 

To  tell  the  sexes  of  young  birds  :  The  male  canary  has  a  slimmer 
body  than  the  hen ;  the  head  is  larger  and  squarer,  and  round  the  eyes 
the  color  is  brighter  than  elsewhere.  Whitish-yellow  birds  are  the 
weakest,  and  those  of  a  greenish  yellow  most  robust. 

Protect  them  from  all  sudden  noises,  for  the  near  discharge  of  a  gun, 
a  door  slammed  with  violence,  and  other  similar  noises  will  often  kill 
the  young  in  the  shell,  but  their  death  happens  generally  through  the 
fault  of  a  bad  sitter. 

CARE  OF  THEM  WHILE  SETTING. 

A  female  canary  will  at  all  times  confine  herself  too  closely  to  the 
nest,  and  thus  generate  a  superabundance  of  heat,  which  often  destroys 
the  brood.  Wash  her  in  a  good  solution  of  salt,  and  after  a  few  min- 
utes with  fresh  water ;  dry  her  as  rapidly  as  possible  in  the  sun.     Do 


FEEDING  THE  YOUNG.  9 

this  once  or  twice  a  day,  and  sprinkle  a  little  sherry  wine  over  her  plum- 
age. Supply  her  with  plenty  of  good  food  to  tempt  her  off  the  nest. 
She  is  most  likely  a  weakly  bird,  and  injures  herself  by  sitting  too 
closely.  A  sweating  female  is  not  fit  for  a  breeder,  so  never  use  her 
for  this  purpose  twice.  After  mating  your  birds,  a  period  of  only  seven 
to  eight  days  elapses  before  the  female  commences  to  lay ;  and  she  will 
lay  from  four  to  seven  eggs,  one  each  day,  at  about  the  same  hour,  and 
sit  upon  them  for  thirteen  days,  when  the  operation  of  hatching  com- 
mences. 

A  young  bird  is  usually  in  full  feather  at  the  age  of  six  weeks — when 
he  is  four  weeks  old  he  \yill  swell  up  his  throat  and  try  to  warble,  and 
by  this  you  can  tell  the  males  from  the  females. 

Some  birds  bathe  while  mating  and  some  do  not.  It  is  always  best 
to  put  the  bathing  dish  in  the  cage,  and  leave  it  to  the  birds'  own  judg- 
ment whether  to  bathe  or  not.  Many  birds  are  of  a  nervous  and  irri- 
table disposition,  never  remaining  in  one  position  for  a  single  instant, 
but  are  continually  hopping  to  and  fro  against  the  wires  of  the  cage,  as 
if  trying  to  get  out,  which  is  really  the  case ;  and,  by  coming  constantly 
in  contact  with  the  hard  substance,  they  ruin  their  plumage.  Such  a 
bird  should  be  hung  low,  or  better  still,  placed  on  a  table  v/here  he  can 
be  occasionally  talked  to  and  noticed ;  then  he  will  soon  become  accus- 
tomed to  his  home.  When  partially  quieted  bathe  the  bare  parts  with 
water,  into  which  has  been  placed  ten  drops  of  the  tincture  of  arnica ; 
after  the  soreness  (if  there  has  been  any)  disappears,  use  a  Httle  oHve 
oil 

FEEDING  THE  YOUNG. 

As  soon  as  the  young  are  hatched  a  small  jar  is  placed  beside  the 
usual  feeding  trough,  containing  a  quarter  of  a  boiled  ^g%  minced  very 
fine,  white  and  yellow  together,  with  a  bit  of  white  bread  steeped  in 
water  and  afterward  pressed ;  another  jar  should  contain  rape  seed 
which  has  been  boiled,  and  then  washed  in  fresh  water,  to  remove  all 
its  acerbity. 

Young  birds  require  soft  food  ;  boil  an  ^^^  hard  and  grate  it  with  one 
cracker  and  thoroughly  mix ;  roll  into  balls  about  as  large  as  an  English 
walnut  and  put  one  in  the  cage.  They  are  apt  to  feed  better  if  they 
have  it  given  say  three  times  a  day.  When  the  young  birds  have 
perched  aloft  one  or  two  nights  they  are  old  enough  to  be  put  in  sepa- 
rate cages,  but  they  still  require  soft  food ;  also  put  rape  and  canary 
seed  in  the  cage. 

When  it  is  necessary  to  bring  up  the  young  by  hand,  a  bit  of  white 
bread,  or  some  biscuit,  should  be  pounded  very  fine,  and  this  powder 
should  be  mixed  with  well -bruised  rape  seed.  This  composition  serves, 
with  a  little  yolk  of  ^gg  and  some  water,  to  make  a  paste,  which  is 


10  BIRDS. 

given  to  the  young  birds  on  a  quill  cut  like  a  spoon ;  each  nursling 
receives  for  a  meal  four  beakfuls,  well  piled  upon  the  quill,  and  these 
meals  must  not  be  fewer  than  ten  or  twelve  a  day. 

The  young  should  remain  warmly  covered  by  the  mother  as  long  as 
they  remain  unfledged  ;  that  is  to  say,  generally  for  twelve  days  ;  on  the 
thirteenth  day  they  begin  to  eat  alone.  In  four  weeks  they  may  be 
placed  in  other  cages  of  a  sufficient  size ;  but  they  must  still  for  some 
weeks  be  fed  with  the  above  paste,  conjointly  with  the  food  of  fuU- 
g^own  birds ;  for  the  sudden  privation  of  this  nourishment  often  occa- 
sions death,  especially  when  moulting. 

THE  MOULTING  SEASON. 

Most  birds  shed  their  feathers  in  the  months  of  September  and  Octo- 
ber, and,  though  it  is  perfectly  natural  for  them  to  do  so,  still  the  ope- 
ration is  accompanied  with  a  slight  disease.  They  should  be  fed  on 
soft  paste  and,  as  they  are  not  well  covered  with  feathers,  great  care 
should  be  taken  to  keep  them  in  a  comfortable,  warm  place,  out  of  all 
draughts  of  air.  With  these  precautions  a  bird  will  fully  moult  in  from 
four  to  six  weeks.  Should  a  bird  not  shed  his  wing  and  tail  feathers 
readily,  it  is  well  to  pull  them  out,  pulling,  however,  only  one  at  a  time. 

Occasionally  a  bird's  limb  will  be  covered  with  scales,  particularly  an 
old  bird's.  The  best  way  to  remove  them  is  to  moisten  the  limb  with 
quite  warm  milk,  and  a  slight  rubbing  with  the  thumb  and  forefinger 
back  and  forth  will  cause  them  to  peel  off.  Care  should  be  taken,  how- 
ever, not  to  break  the  underskin.  Swollen  and  sore  limbs  are  greatly 
relieved,  and  afterwards  a  permanent  cure  effected,  by  bathing  the 
affected  parts  with  diluted  tincture  of  arnica.  It  often  happens  that  a 
bird's  claws  grow  very  long  and  require  cutting.  This  is  a  particular 
operation.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  cut  up  into  the  blood  veins, 
which  can  be  easily  seen  by  holding  the  bird's  claw  in  front  of  a  strong 
light,  and  then  not  cutting  within  at  least  a  sixteenth  of  an  inch  of  the 
red  vein. 

There  is  an  impression  on  the  minds  of  most  people  that  the  only 
use  for  cuttlefish  is  as  a  bill  sharpener,  but  this  is  wrong.  The  cuttle- 
fish is  a  mollusk,  caught  in  the  China  Sea,  and  is  largely  used  by  all 
manufacturers  of  tooth  powder,  its  salty  particles  readily  removing  the 
tartar.  All  seed-eating  birds  are  fond  of  this,  its  salty  taste  seeming 
to  give  them  a  relish  for  food. 

Birds,  when  proper  care  is  taken  of  them,  are  rarely  attacked  with 
disease.  If  owners  of  these  pets  would  first  see  that  the  cage  is  kept 
perfectly  clean,  and  well  supplied  with  plenty  of  gravel  or  gravel  paper 
for  the  bird  to  peck  upon,  and  that  the  seed  is  of  the  very  best  quality, 
and  that  they  are  fed  and  given  a  bath  at  a  regular  hour,  daily,  then 
birds,  if  kept  from  draughts  of  air,  and  no  sugar,  candy,  figs,  raisins,  or 


DISEASES  AND   THEIR  CURE.  H 

cake  fed  them,  they  will  sing  from  ten  to  eleven  months  out  of  the  year. 
The  poor,  German  families  keep  birds  for  many  years,  but  wealthy 
people  are  apt  to  kill  them  with  kindness.  In  cold  weather  they  should 
be  kept  in  a  room  where  the  temperature  is  even,  and  where  the  heat  is 
not  over  sixty-five  or  seventy  degrees  during  the  day-time,  nor  below 
forty-five  or  fifty  in  the  night.  If  no  fire  is  kept  up  during  the  night,  in 
very  severe  wintry  weather  a  newspaper  should  be  secured  over  and 
around  the  top  and  outside  of  the  cage,  from  bed-time  to  sunrise,  to 
keep  the  bird  safely  comfortable.  At  no  season  of  the  year  should  it  be 
forgotten  that  they  must  not  be  placed  in  a  draught.  Asthma  or  a 
sudden  cold  attacks  them  often  when  the  cause  is  not  suspected. 

In  winter  time  give  them  all  the  sunlight  you  can  during  the  day. 
In  summer  keep  them  shaded  from  the  direct  rays  of  the  sun.  In  the 
frosty  season  avoid  keeping  them  where  it  is  too  hot,  in  the  room 
where  the  cage  hangs,  or  you  will  find  they  get  easily  "  stuffed  up  "  and 
wheezy  in  their  notes,  in  consequence  of  the  over-heated  air  they  are 
forced  to  breathe  near  the  ceiling. 

DISEASES  AND  THEIR  CURE. 

The  cause  of  most  disease  is  colds,  which  are  occasioned  by  either 
hanging  a  bird  in  a  draught  of  air,  near  a  loose-fitting  window,  or 
keeping  him  in  a  very  hot  room  (sixty-five  degrees  is  the  proper  tem- 
perature for  a  bird)  through  the  day,  and  then  in  a  cool  one  at  night — 
a  variation  of,  perhaps,  thirty  degrees  in  twenty-four  hours.  The  best 
cure  for  the  cold  is  to  feed,  in  addition  to  their  regular  seed,  rape  and 
canary,  and  perhaps  millet,  a  paste  made  from  a  hard-boiled  tgg  and 
one  pulverized  cracker,  thoroughly  mixed  together,  using  no  w^ater  in 
mixing,  the  tgg  supplying  sufficient  moisture.  Sometimes  a  bird  seems 
hoarse,  and  apparently  has  lost  his  voice.  This  is  occasioned  by  over- 
singing  ;  a  little  pure  rock-candy,  not  flavored,  dissolved  in  the  drinking 
water,  and  a  quantity  of  red  pepper  put  into  the  paste  described  above, 
will  usually  effect  a  cure.  If,  however,  the  cold  is  allowed  to  remain 
for  several  days  without  attention  or  cure,  it  will  pass  rapidly  from  cold 
to  asthma,  and  from  that  to  gapes,  which  is  best  described  by  saying 
that  the  bird  looks  like  a  little  puff-ball,  with  a  constant  panting,  and 
his  bill  almost  constantly  opening  and  shutting,  as  if  to  catch  his 
breath.  His  food  should  be  the  same  as  described  above.  Also,  keep 
the  bird  warm  and  give,  with  his  rape  and  canary,  ripe  plantain,  if  it 
can  be  had.  Every  morning  he  should  have  a  small  teaspoonful  of 
warm  bread  and  milk,  and  now  and  then  a  little  bit  of  sponge-cake 
soaked  in  sherry  wine. 

Asthma — for  birds  have  this  disease  as  well  as  the  human  race — 
generally  yields  to  plantain  and  rape  seed  moistened  with  water  as  the 
sole  food.     Birds  troubled  with  a  looseness  of  the  bowels  can  be  greatly 


12  BIRDS. 

relieved  by  placing  a  rusty  nail  in  their  drinking  water.  Another  excel- 
lent remedy  will  be  found  in  common  chalk.  Let  a  small  piece  be 
placed  between  the  wires,  and  do  not  feed  them  any  green  stuff.  It  is 
also  well  to  scrape  the  chalk  quite  fine  and  scatter  it  with  the  sand  in 
the  bottom  of  the  cage.  Should  the  bird  be  troubled  with  costiveness, 
a  piece  of  sweet  apple,  a  little  chickweed,  lettuce,  or  any  green  food, 
will  usually  afford  relief.  Most  ailments  of  birds  commence  with  a 
cold  ;  keep  them  free  from  that  and  you  will  have  healthy  birds.  Often- 
times a  bird  bristles  up  and  sits  moping  upon  the  perch,  with  his  head 
under  his  wing,  and  looks  like  a  puff-ball.  By  watching  him  you  can 
usually  tell  the  cause  and  relieve  him.  The  cause  will  be  often  found 
that  the  bird  has  been  neglected  and  not  fed  properly,  or  that  sufficient 
water  has  not  been  given  him.  If,  however,  it  should  prove  that  the 
bird  has  plenty  of  food  and  is  perfectly  regular,  then  make  a  change  in 
his  food,  taking  away  the  seed  and  feeding  the  soft  food,  as  recom- 
mended for  birds  with  colds,  and  perhaps  a  small  piece  of  sweet  apple. 
Occasionally  a  canary  is  troubled  with  a  kind  of  indigestion,  which 
causes  inflammation  of  the  intestines,  to  v/hich  young  birds  are  more 
especially  subject.  The  symptoms  are  a  swelling  of  the  body  which, 
on  blowing  up  the  feathers,  looks  semi-transparent  and  full  of  red  veins. 
The  cause  of  this  is  generally  an  over-abundance  of  nutrition,  or  bad 
or  stale  food  or  water ;  the  remedy,  if  any  there  be,  is  a  spare  diet,  with 
a  little  alum  or  salt  in  the  drink ;  oatmeal  is  good  in  this  case.  If  the 
bowels  should  be  much  relaxed,  give  bruised  hemp  and  maw  seed. 
Sometimes  the  feathers  of  the  bird  come  off ;  then  rub  the  bare  parts 
with  fresh  lard.  Yellow  gall  sometimes  makes  its  appearance  about 
the  head  and  eyes  ;  this  is  a  small  ulcer  about  the  size  of  a  hemp  seed. 
This  must  be  carefully  cut  off  with  a  sharp  penknife,  and  the  place 
anointed  with  fresh  butter  ;  the  bird  should  have  fresh,  nourishing  food. 
Sneezing,  often  caused  by  an  obstruction  of  the  nostrils,  may  be  cured 
by  passing  a  very  fine  feather  through  them. 

MOCKING  BIRDS. 

In  their  natural  state  the  food  of  these  nightingales  of  the  South 
consists  of  insects,  worms,  seeds,  buds,  green  herbage,  such  as  clover, 
lettuce,  endive,  chickenweed,  berries,  etc.,  and  when  caged  should  be 
fed,  so  far  as  convenient,  with  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs  crumbled 
fine,  hemp  or  canary  seed,  meal,  worms,  bits  of  ripe  fruit,  white  lump 
sugar,  and  occasionally  a  little  mocking  bird  food. 

The  greatest  cleanliness  must  be  observed.  Their  cages  should  be 
cleaned  early  in  the  morning  daily.  A  piece  of  uninked  paper  placed 
on  the  floor  of  the  cage  removed  daily  facihtates  this  process.  If 
vermin  infest  them  a  small  bit  of  sulphur  may  be  placed  under  the 
paper. 


MOCKING  BIRDS.  13 

Mocking  birds  delight  in  a  bath,  as  do  canaries,  daily.  If  the  bath 
becomes  soiled  before  used,  remove  and  replace  with  clean  water. 
They  will  not  enter  it  if  there  is  anything  in  it. 

If  you  wish  to  teach  them,  sing  or  whistle  single  bars  of  music  often 
in  their  hearing.  You  will  be  delighted  by  hearing  them  mock  you 
very  soon.  They  are  fond  of  company,  and,  in  addition  to  the  notes  of 
all  birds  placed  near  them,  will  imitate  many  sounds,  such  as  the 
"  meouw  "  of  the  cat,  the  barking  of  dogs,  etc.,  etc. 

Their  food  and  care. — Mocking  birds  should  have  large  cages,  with 
light  board  backs,  kept  scrupulously  clean  ;  cover  the  bottom  of  the 
tray  with  paper,  then  on  it  sprinkle  sand,  fine  gravel  and  bones  that 
have  been  burnt  and  powdered.  Hang  a  small  bag  of  sulphur  on  top 
of  the  cage,  and  red  pepper,  in  pods,  should  be  tied  to  the  sides. 
Give  meat  of  some  sort  every  day;  beefsteak  half  an  inch  long,  the 
size  of  the  finger,  cut  crosswise  with  scissors  in  small  bits  ;  grass- 
hoppers, angleworms  and  white  garden  grubs ;  also,  apples,  berries 
and  lettuce  leaves  are  good  for  them.  Take  an  Irish  potato,  boil  or 
bake  it,  mash  fine  with  a  hard  boiled  0.^%  and  a  little  mite  of  red  pep- 
per. Use  a  large  bath  dish  in  the  morning,  and  remove  after  the 
bird  has  bathed.  Avoid  hanging  in  draughts.  If  sick,  give  a  brown 
spider  ;  sometimes  a  warm  bath  will  relieve  it.  When  bunches  come 
on  the  head,  rub  on  camphor  carefully,  lest  it  get  in  the  eyes.  Keep  the 
perches  very  clean. 

Feed  them  hard-boiled  ^%g,  minced  very  fine ;  dried  currants  once  or 
twice  a  week,  a  small  piece  of  raw  beef,  chopped  very  fine,  and  all 
kinds  of  fresh  fruit.  Also  worms,  which  can  be  raised  in  this  manner : 
Procure  a  wooden  box,  line  it  with  zinc  (an  empty  tea  chest,  if  lined 
with  foil,  will  answer) ;  bore  very  small  holes  in  the  sides  and  top,  and 
fit  the  lid  closely ;  fill  within  a  few  inches  of  the  top  with  bran,  and  place 
in  several  pieces  of  old  leather ;  procure  from  a  flour  dealer  a  few  flour 
worms  ;  put  them  in  your  box.  The  worms  will  in  a  short  time  become 
black  bugs,  which  deposit  the  larvae  from  which  comes  the  worms  ;  you 
have  now  an  excellent  food  for  your  birds.  Give  them  several  a  day. 
They  grow  to  about  an  inch  in  length  ;  the  bran  can  be  changed  and 
the  supply  kept  up.  Feed  them  with  the  common  house  spider,  the 
little  crab  found  in  oysters,  and  angleworms.  The  nearer  you  approach 
their  natural  food,  the  better  they  seem  to  thrive. 

Be  quiet  and  tender  in  your  handling  of  the  mocking  bird,  for  they 
are  a  timid  bird,  and  often  die  suddenly  of  heart  disease ;  it  requires 
caution  not  to  frighten  him,  for  he  will  drop  dead  in  the  midst  of  his 
song,  apparently  as  well  as  can  be. 

Those  who  give  their  bird  "  mocking  bird  food"  will  find  this  is  a 
better  preparation,  and  does  not  cost  so  much  :  Take  beef's  liver,  cut 
it  in  strips  and  dry  in  the  oven ;  take  hemp  seed,  soda  crackers  or  stale 


14  BIRDS. 

bread,  pound  all  together  fine,  and  mix  in  equal  parts.  When  given 
to  the  bird  moisten  with  water  ;  they  can  pick  it  up  easier. 

This  is  another :  Take  one  beef's  heart,  two  pounds  of  soda  crack- 
ers, two  pounds  of  hemp  seed,  two  ounces  of  olive  oil,  half  spoonful  of 
red  pepper ;  boil  the  beef's  heart ;  chop  fine ;  dry  in  the  oven ;  pound 
fine  ;  pound  hemp  seed  and  crackers,  and  then  mix  with  the  oil  and 
liver. 

Or  this :  Fifty  cents'  worth  of  German  toasted  bread,  with  caraway 
seeds  in ;  roll  or  grind  fine,  as  well  as  two  pounds  of  hemp  seed  ;  one 
pound  of  maw  seed ;  two  beef  hearts  boiled,  dried  in  the  oven  after 
chopping  and  ground ;  one  pound  of  lard,  unsalted.  Mix  thoroughly. 
Put  away  in  a  cool  place  in  light  jars.  For  use,  mix  a  little  fresh  grated 
carrot  with  some  of  the  prepared  food  every  morning. 

OUT-DOOR  HOMES  FOR  THE  SONGSTERS. 

For  those  who  care  about  the  outside  accessories  of  home  there  is 
nothing  prettier  or  that  gives  a  more  homelike  look  than  bird-houses. 
It  looks  hospitable  and  cheery  to  provide  a  home  for  the  little  songsters, 
and  thus  bring  them  around  you.  Old  bird-cages  make  beautiful 
swinging  bird-houses.  Take  crinoline  wires  or  strips  of  refuse  tin 
from  the  yard  of  your  nearest  tinker,  and  wind  them  in  and  about  the 
cage,  forming  a  rough  surface,  over  which  apply  the  mortar ;  then 
thatch  the  roof,  which  is  easily  done  on  the  wire  foundation  ;  fasten 
the  bottom  on  securely  by  binding  with  wire  to  the  upper  part,  and 
fasten  the  door  so  that  it  cannot  fall  down. 

The  most  primitive  bird-house  is  the  large,  old-time  calabash  gourd, 
which  the  early  settlers  were  wont  to  cultivate  in  large  quantities,  and 
apply  to  various  purposes,  among  which  were  bird-houses.  When  of 
fine  shape  and  rich  color,  they  form  no  insignificant  ornament,  espe- 
cially when  varnished  and  embellished  with  smaller  varieties,  of  which 
there  are  beautiful  kinds,  easily  raised  from  seed.  By  piercing  holes 
and  using  flexible  wire  these  may  be  made  tasteful  and  commodious. 

Another  admirable  wren-box  is  made  of  a  cocoa-nut  shell,  by  scoop- 
ing the  meat  out  through  a  circular  aperture  a  few  inches  in  diameter. 
These,  arranged  in  groups  against  a  building  or  tree,  with  hanging 
baskets  made  of  the  same  material,  and  stocked  with  creepers  sus- 
jjended  above  them,  are  exceedingly  pretty. 

Flower-pots  or  hanging  baskets  of  earthenware  make  good  roofs  for 
the  swinging  bird-houses.  These  dish-like  roofs  give  a  Japanese 
appearance  to  the  houses,  which  is  increased  by  fastening  pendants — 
acorns,  cones,  etc. — around  the  edges.  The  pole  passes  through  a 
large  sized  pan,  secured  as  before,  and  finished  with  the  screen  of  rustic 
work. 

A  cluster  of  three  pots  against  a  wall,  with  a  receptacle  for  a  vine 


BOXES.  15 

and  creepers  in  the  open  space  in  the  center,  is  another  effective 
arrangement ;  and  a  group  of  two,  three  or  four  cocoanut  shells  on  a 
wooden  bottom  of  ornamental  form,  covered  with  rustic-work,  and  fas- 
tened on  a  rose  pillar,  is  among  the  most  beautiful  of  our  bird-houses. 
A  pole  three  feet  high  (above  the  center;,  supports  the  roof,  which  is 
made  on  a  frame,  and  extends  above  the  houses. 


BOXES. 


CARVED  AND  ENGRAVED, 


An  excellent  imitation  of  carving,  suitable  for  frames,  boxes,  etc., 
may  be  made  of  a  description  of  leather  called  basil.  The  art  consists 
in  cutting  out  this  material  in  imitation  of  natural  objects,  and  in 
impressing  upon  it  by  simple  tools,  the  same  as  in  wax  flowers.  Begin 
with  a  simple  object — an  ivy-leaf,  for  instance.  Cut  the  proper  shape, 
and  impress  the  veins  upon  it;  then  arrange  them  in  groups,  when 
you  have  sufficient,  on  the  frame.  The  tools  required  are  ivory  or 
steel  points  of  various  sizes,  punches  and  tin-shapes.  Before  cutting 
out  the  leaves,  the  leather  should  be  well  soaked  in  water  until  it  is 
quite  pliable.  When  dry  the  leaves  will  retain  their  artistic  shape. 
Leaves  and  stems  are  fastened  together  with  glue,  and  varnished 
when  dry,  or  you  may  varnish  with  sealing-wax  dissolved  in  spirits  of 
wine.  Wire,  cork,  gutta-percha,  bits  of  stems,  etc.,  may  severally  be 
used  to  aid  in  the  formation  of  groups  of  buds  and  seed-vessels,  etc. 

CIGAR  BOXES  UTILIZED.^ 

The  uses  to  which  empty  cigar-boxes  may  be  applied  appear  to  be 
almost  limitless.  By  taking  them  apart,  washing  off  the  paper  and  well 
oiling,  we  have  four  panels,  which  can  be  made  into  a  pretty  little  lamp 
screen,  the  wood  being  susceptible  of  a  high  poHsh,  and  possessing  rich 
tints  and  color.  First  saw  one-fourth  of  the  length  into  a  pointed  top, 
curving  it  gracefully  to  the  center ;  then  give  two  coats  of  copal  var- 
nish. Dry  thoroughly,  and  rub  quite  smooth  with  powdered  pumice 
stone  and  a  wet  cloth;  rinse  quite  clean,  dry,  and  again  varnish. 
Repeat  this  until  the  surface  is  hard  and  as  smooth  as  glass.  Make 
four  holes  in  the  two  center  panels,  and  two  in  those  at  each  end. 
Next  take  some  black  glazed  paper  and  a  small  piece  of  black  velvet ; 
arrange  a  center  piece,  an  ornamental  figure  for  the  pointed  top  and  a 
border  for  the  base,  using  some  simple  geometrical  figures,  with  centers 
of  the  velvet  and  the  finer  lines  of  the  paper,  or  silhouette  pictures 
answer  as  well ;  but  a  still  more  artistic  mode  of  ornamentation  is  by 


16  BOUQUETS, 

means  of  black  enamel  paint  and  gold  bronze.  Mark  out  the  design 
with  a  lead  pencil,  then  paint  in  the  design  with  the  gold  bronze  and 
paint  all  inside  of  it  with  the  black  enamel  paint. 

Another  way  to  use  them  is  to  wad  the  inside  with  cotton  and  line 
with  silk,  drawing  down  each  corner  tight  with  a  ribbon  or  cord,  and 
fastening  it  with  a  tiny  tack  or  glue.  Then  the  outside  may  be  orna- 
mented in  any  way,  and  the  inside  used  for  handkerchiefs  or  gloves. 


BOUQUETS. 

ARRANGING  THE  FLOWERS. 

It  seems  an  easy  thing  to  make  a  bouquet  as  one  looks  over  the  gar- 
den and  sees  the  beautiful  flowers.  But  after  all  it  is  a  difficult  matter, 
and  one  sometimes  forgets  that  flowers  have  their  affinities  and  pre- 
ferences as  well  as  the  human  race.  Above  all  give  them  room  and  not 
crowd  them.  When  flowers  are  massed  heavily  together  all  lose  their 
beauty. 

When  you  cut  the  flowers  for  bouquets,  provide  yourself  with  a  tin 
basin  or  dish  having  a  little  water  in  it.  Cut  them,  never  pull  or  break 
them ;  it  bruises  the  stems  and  hastens  decay.  Flowers  will  keep  best 
if  gathered  at  night ;  the  early  sun  seems  to  wilt  them.  Stand  the 
flowers  up  in  the  dish  and  put  those  of  one  kind  together,  then  when 
ready  to  arrange  them  you  can  easily  tell  what  materials  you  have  to 
work  with,  and  avoid  tumbling  them  over.  The  water  prevents  them 
from  wilting,  for  flowers  carried  in  the  hand"  will  wither  in  a  short  time. 

When  a  flower  is  of  good  size  and  a  fine  one,  it  will  look  more  beau- 
tiful if  arranged  by  itself,  the  single  flower  among  sprays  of  fern  or 
feathery  grasses,  than  if  put  among  other  flowers.  Flowers  are  difficult 
to  arrange  in  a  shallow  dish  unless  wet  moss  has  first  been  put  in ;  the 
flower  5tems  can  then  be  imbedded  in  the  moss,  and  it  will  help  to  pre- 
serve them.  If  a  shallow  glass  dish  is  filled  with  white  sand  and  made 
up  into  pyramid  form  (as  can  easily  be  done  by  wetting  it),  and  the 
flowers  arranged  in  it,  commencing  with  the  tiny  fine  ones  at  the  top, 
and  filling  out  with  larger  ones  as  the  base  is  reached,  the  effect  will  be 
beautiful,  and  if  the  sand  is  kept  damp  the  flowers  will  keep  fresh  many 
days. 

Some  of  the  holders  for  flowers  are  very  pretty ;  they  have  a  saucer 
at  the  bottom  and  a  slender  single  vase  in  the  center ;  the  lower  one 
can  be  arranged  as  a  flat  bouquet,  and  with  a  single  lily  and  fern  sprigs 
or  grasses  in  the  vase,  what  can  be  lovelier !     The  white  day  lilies,  with 


FOR  VASES  AND  HAND  BOUQUETS.  17 

their  yellow  centers,  are  very  beautiful,  and  a  single  one  will  perfume 
the  whole  room  with  its  fragrance. 

Colors  should  be  chosen  wisely ;  pinks  and  scarlets  should  not  be 
included  in  the  same  arrangement,  and  large  flowers  should  not  be 
mixed  with  very  small  ones.  Yellow  can  be  used  sparingly,  and  white 
to  blend  the  colors.  Green  should  be  used  to  separate  the  colors,  as  a 
bouquet  not  softened  by  grasses  or  vines  is  very  glaring  in  its  effects. 
Button-hole  bouquets  should  always  be  small — conspicuous  for  their 
beauty,  not  size.  A  single  geranium  leaf,  with  a  rosebud,  a  tuberose, 
or  two  or  three  small  flowers  put  together  with  a  leaf  of  green,  is  very 
pretty  for  these,  as  almost  any  flower  is  beautiful. 

FOR  VASES  AND  HAND  BOUQUETS. 

In  selecting  vases  for  flowers  get  those  of  a  light  or  neutral  color; 
cut  glass,  of  delicate  shape  and  color,  are  prettiest.  Never  put  flowers 
in  heavy  vases,  unless  large  sprays  of  flowers  are  selected,  and  then  a 
tiny,  delicate  bouquet  and  vase  is  much  prettier  than  these  large, 
massed  bouquets  in  heavy  vases.  A  spray  of  ferns  with  a  single  rose 
or  bud,  or  a  saucer  of  ferns  and  pansies  is  much  prettier  than  a  large 
bouquet  even  if  composed  of  beautiful  flowers. 

For  small  vases  a  very  good  way  is  to  clip  the  flowers  off  and  put 
them  in  carelessly  as  they  come,  then  they  will  look  natural ;  too  much 
arrangement  often  spoils  the  looks  of  a  vase  of  flowers.  For  either 
hand  or  vase  bouquets  do  not  put  too  many  colors  together. 

For  vases  and  bouquets  of  any  sort  there  should  be  plenty  of  white 
for  the  foundation.  Where  stemless  flowers  are  used,  like  a  tuberose 
or  a  single  geranium,  stems  can  be  made  by  putting  the  ends  inside  of 
straws  and  then  wiring  them  in  ;  when  arranged  in  the  bouquet  the  straw 
■cannot  be  seen,  but  the  flowers  can  be  kept  fresh  by  absorbing  the 
water.  A  pretty  arrangement  is  to  take  a  spike  of  scarlet  gladiolus, 
with  its  brilliant  coloring ;  arrange  it  with  feathery  grasses  and  gleams 
of  white  feverfew  here  and  there  and  you  will  have  a  lovely  spot  of 
coloring  for  some  dark  corner.  Again,  petunias  and  morning  glories 
are  difficult  to  combine  with  any  flower,  but  give  them  a  wide-mouthed 
vase  and  a  few  leaves  and  they  are  positively  graceful.  All  lilies  are 
prettiest  if  no  other  flowers  are  mixed  with  them. 

It  is  generally  understood  that  perfect  whiteness  is  indispensable  in 
all  flowers  used  for  bridal  purposes,  rendering  jessamine,  orange  blos- 
soms, gardenias,  white  carnations,  white  azaleas,  amongst  the  flowers 
in  most  general  use.  And  although  white  should  predominate  in  the 
wedding  bouquet,  a  few  flowers  of  delicate  tint  may  be  sparingly  used. 
Amongst  exotics,  the  orchid  class  of  plants,  those  tinted  with  pale 
mauve  and  blush  rose,  are  most  useful  for  such  bouquets,  The  style 
of  flowers  should  have  some  analogy  to  the  age  of  the  bride.  Thus  a 
2 


18  BOUQUETS. 

bouquet  composed  of  nothing  but  orange  buds  is  appropriate  for  a 
young  bride  in  her  teens,  whilst  full-blown  flowers  are  equally  well 
fitted  for  a  wearer  of  more  mature  age. 

FLOWER  DESIGNS  AND  HOLDERS. 

In  order  to  make  saucer  bouquets  you  can  take  those  with  short 
stems,  like  the  balsam,  stock,  pansies,  tea  rose,  oleander  and  lady  slippers ; 
these  should  be  arranged  with  rose  geranium  leaves  or  ferns.  Put  on 
an  edge  of  the  ferns  and  leaves  alternately  in  a  shallow  dish ;  next  lay 
some  stiff  stems  crosswise  on  the  water  to  prevent  the  flowers  from 
sinking ;  then  lay  in  the  dainty  blossoms,  mixing  with  them  some  fine, 
•small  white  flower  to  blend  and  harmonize  the  colors. 

Shells  make  beautiful  receptacles  for  flowers,  and  the  beautiful  tints 
can  be  brought  out  by  boiling  them  in  acids  and  then  polishing  them. 
These  can  be  mounted  on  little  stands  of  wood  or  wire,  thereby  making 
beautiful  ornaments  for  the  sitting  room,  filled  with  ferns  or  cut  flowers, 
or  will  make  a  useful  and  unique  ornament  for  the  sideboard  if  filled 
with  small  fruits  or  bon-bons.  When  filled  with  cherries,  peaches  or 
plums  the  bright  colors  are  brought  into  vivid  contrast  to  the  pink  and 
pearl  tints  of  the  shell.  Some  of  the  smaller  ones  can  be  filled  with  a 
single  flower  and  ferns.  Or  small  holes  can  be  drilled  in  them  and  they 
can  be  suspended  by  means  of  a  cord  or  ribbon ;  the  silver  wire  is  also 
pretty  for  this  purpose. 

The  little  white  wood  cages  (in  which  canaries  are  sent  on  their 
travels),  if  lined  with  dried  moss  and  filled  with  grass  and  berries  are 
very  beautiful ;  these  can  also  be  filled  with  moss  and  hung  in  the  win- 
dows as  floral  ornaments.  A  low  glass  dish  filled  with  moss,  edged 
with  leaves  and  filled  in  with  fine  flowers,  then  starred  with  daisies  or 
pansies,  makes  a  lovely  table  ornament.  By  saturating  with  fresh 
water,  flowers  will  keep  a  long  time  in  wet  sand.  A  large  shell  filled 
with  wet  sand  and  any  fine  creeper  falling  over  its  edge,  with  a  dash 
of  scarlet  and  white,  will  throw  glows  of  brightness  into  dark  corner 
brackets  or  on  library  shelves. 

WATER  BOUQUETS  FOR  THE  TABLE. 

To  make  a  bouquet  for  the  table  the  articles  required  are  a  glass  dish 
(circular)  and  a  low  glass  shade  to  fit  inside  the  dish.  Then  make  a 
bouquet  according  to  the  size  of  the  shade,  as  there  must  be  a  margin 
of  an  inch  or  so  between  the  glass  and  the  flowers.  The  few  flowers 
— and  very  fev/  will  suffice  if  the  shade  is  small — should  be  lightly  put 
together,  with  fern  or  moss  arranged  as  much  as  possible  to  hide  the 
stalks,  which  must  be  tied  firmly  together,  and  cut  close.  Then  place 
the  dish  in  the  bottom  of  the  bath,  with  sufficient  water  to  go  over  the 
lop  of  the  shade.     Then  weight  the  bouquet,  which  has  already  been 


TO  KEEP  FLOWERS  FRESH.  19 

made  (this  can  be  done  by  attaching  the  glass  stopper  of  a  decanter 
to  the  short  stalks  of  the  flowers),  to  make  it  stand  upright  and  prevent 
the  bouquet  from  floating.  Place  the  bouquet  in  the  center  of  the  dish 
which  is  at  the  bottom  of  the  bath,  and  take  the  shade  holding  it  side- 
ways underneath  the  water,  and  place  it  carefully  over  the  flowers, 
resting  it  on  the  dish. 

Care  must  be  taken  to  keep  the  shade  well  under  the  water,  as,  when 
the  bouquet  is  completed,  the  shade  must  be  quite  full  of  water,  to  the 
exclusion  of  all  air.  Lift  the  whole  thing  out  of  the  water  slowly  and 
with  care,  dry  the  dish  and  place  it  on  the  table.  The  effect  is  beau- 
tiful, as  the  flowers  appear  magnified  through  the  water,  and  a  sparkling 
silvery  effect  is  given  to  the  leaves.  This  bouquet  will  last  for  two  or 
three  days  as  it  is,  and  by  changing  the  water,  for  much  longer.  In 
removing  the  shade  it  must  be  placed  underneath  the  water,  and  care 
must  be  taken  to  do  this  gradually  or  the  glass  may  crack  and  break. 
Even  if  the  flowers  have  a  withered  look  when  seen  without  the  water, 
they  appear  fresh  again  when  the  water  is  renewed. 

Lycopodium  looks  very  well  with  the  flowers,  so  do  any  scraps  of 
fern.  If  flowers  are  not  forthcoming,  holly  and  laurustinus,  with  the 
leaves  stripped  off,  are  most  effective.  Adding  a  wreath  of  fresh 
flowers  or  moss  around  the  edge  of  the  dish  outside  enhances  the 
beauty  and  makes  a  tasteful  centerpiece.  This  can  be  done  with  a  real 
wreath,  or  by  filling  the  small  glass  troughs  forming  a  circle.  Very 
small  water  bouquets  can  be  made  with  finger  glasses,  and  pink  ones 
have  a  pretty  effect.  These  ornaments  are  cheerful-looking  on  a  break- 
fast table. 

TO  KEEP  FLOWERS  FRESH. 

When  cut  flowers  have  faded,  either  by  being  worn  a  whole  evening 
in  one's  dress,  or  as  a  bouquet,  by  cutting  half  an  inch  from  the  end  of 
the  stem  in  the  morning,  and  putting  the  freshly-trimmed  stalks 
instantly  into  quite  boiling  water,  the  petals  may  be  seen  to  come 
smooth  and  resume  their  beauty,  often  in  a  few  minutes.  Colored 
flowers,  carnations,  azaleas,  roses  and  geraniums,  may  be  treated  in  this 
way.  White  flowers  turn  yellow.  The  thickest  textured  flowers  come 
up  the  best,  although  azaleas  revive  wonderfully.  Another  very  good 
mode  of  renovating  cut  flowers  is  to  place  them  in  water  under  a  glass 
shade.  For  keeping  flowers  in  water,  finely-powdered  charcoal  in 
which  the  stalks  can  be  stuck  at  the  .bottom  of  the  vase,  is  excellent ; 
it  preserves  them  surprisingly,  and  renders  the  water  free  from  any 
obnoxious  qualities. 

If  you  would  keep  flowers  for  evening  wear,  you  must  be  up  early, 
and  gather  them  before  the  sun  is  on  them,  and,  if  possible,  while 
they  are  still  wet  with  dew.     Place  them  in  water  in  a  shady  place,  and 


20  CABINETS. 

just  before  they  are  wanted  cut  a  short  piece  off  the  stalk  with  a  sharp 
pair  of  scissors — a  knife  will  not  do ;  then,  if  possible,  keep  them  in 
one  of  the  tubes  used  by  gentlemen  for  their  button-holes  ;  if  not,  seal 
the  ends  of  the  stalks.  Some  persons  can  wear  natural  flowers  much 
better  than  others  ;  if  the  skin  is  hot  and  damp  they  will  soon  fade,  and 
only  hard- wooded  plants  should  be  chosen.  For  azaleas,  scarlet  gera- 
niums, etc.,  a  drop  of  gum  should  be  planted  in  the  center  of  each  flower 
to  keep  them  from  shaking. 

Or  this  :  Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda  in  a  pint  of  water, 
and  in  this  place  your  bouquet ;  it  will  preserve  the  flowers  for  a  fort- 
night. This  is  a  fact  worth  knowing,  as  in  warm  weather  flowers  fade 
and  wither  rapidly.  Sprinkle  the  bouquet  lightly  with  fresh  water,  and 
then  put  it  in  a  vessel  containing  soap-suds  ;  this  will  keep  the  flowers 
as  freshly  as  if  first  gathered.  Then,  every  morning  take  the  bouquet 
out  of  the  suds  and  lay  it  sideways,  the  stock  entering  first,  into  clean 
water  ;  keep  it  there  for  a  minute  or  two,  then  take  it  out  and  sprinkle 
the  flowers  lightly  by  the  hand  with  water,  replace  it  in  the  soap-suds, 
and  it  will  bloom  as  fresh  as  when  first  gathered.  The  soap-suds  need 
changing  eveiy  three  or  four  days.  By  observing  these  rules  a  bouquet 
may  be  kept  bright  and  beautiful  for  a  long  time.  The  natural  color 
of  flowers  may  be  preserved  for  any  length  of  time  by  dipping  them  for 
a  moment  in  clear  glycerine.  When  the  glycerine  dries  the  various  tints 
are  seen  almost  as  bright  as  before  the  flowers  were  plucked.  Also  a 
good  way  is  to  lay  them  in  wet  cloths  ;  take  them  out  of  the  vases  at 
night,  sprinkle  with  cold  water  and  then  wrap  them  in  cloths  made  veiy 
v/et  with  cold  water.  The  weight  of  the  cloth  will  not  crush  the  most 
delicate  flowers,  while  it  keeps  out  the  air  and  prevents  their  falling  to 
pieces  or  opening  still  more. 


CABINETS, 

HOW  TO  MAKE  ONE  OF  EBONIZED  WOOD. 

To  ebonize  a  cabinet  for  minerals  or  shells,  the  material  may  be 
unseasoned  boards  of  pear,  holly  or  beech.  Of  course  the  size  or  shape 
must  be  a  matter  of  individual  taste,  but  one  five  by  two  and  one-half 
feet,  with  a  depth  of  five  inches,  is  a  convenient  size.  Fasten  the 
box  neatly  together,  fitting  in  shelves  far  enough  apart  to  accommodate 
the  specimens,  and  finish  off  with  a  full  glass  door,  not  forgetting  a 
stout  lock.  The  cabinet  must  have  an  ornamental  top,  and  for  this  pur- 
pose can  be  found  no  better  model  than  the  top  of  a  dressing  case.    The 


FOR  SHELLS  AND  MINERALS.  21 

knobs,  etc.,  can  be  turned  for  a  few  cents,  and  by  arranging  narrow 
strips  of  wood  in  graceful  designs,  it  will  have  a  most  pleasing  result. 
Almost  any  strip  of  wood  can  be  bent  by  wrapping  it  in  flannel  and 
steaming  in  the  steam  box. 

Now  comes  the  pleasant  part  of  the  work,  which  is  to  convert  the 
homely  board  box  into  a  beautiful  ebony  cabinet.  Steep  the  box  for 
two  or  three  days  in  lukewarm  water  in  which  a  little  alum  has  been 
dissolved.  Then  put  a  handful  of  logwood  into  a  pint  of  water  and 
boil  it  down  to  less  than  half  a  pint.  If  a  little  indigo  is  added  the 
color  will  be  more  beautiful.  Spread  a  layer  of  this  liquor,  quite  hot, 
on  the  wood,  which  will  give  it  a  violet  color.  When  it  is  dry,  spread 
on  another  layer,  dry  again,  and  give  it  a  third.  Boil  verdigris  at  dis- 
cretion in  its  own  vinegar  and  spread  a  layer  of  it  on  the  wood,  and 
when  dry  rub  with  a  brush,  then  with  oiled  chamois  skin.  This  gives 
a  fine  black  and  imitates  perfectly  the  color  of  ebony.  Do  not  use  wood 
that  has  been  long  cut  or  aged,  but  let  it  be  as  fresh  as  possible.  Let 
all  drying  be  done  in  the  air,  as  artificial  heat  tends  to  destroy  the  color. 
A  fine  effect  may  be  had  if  a  simple  pattern  be  traced  among  the  orna- 
mental work  and  gilded. 

FOR  SHELLS  AND  MINERALS. 

Many  of  you  have  doubtless  collected  beautiful  shells,  pebbles,  and 
other  marine  treasures,  which  all  would  be  glad  to  preserve.  A  hand- 
some cabinet  filled  with  shells  is  no  mean  or  inconspicuous  article  of 
adornment  in  a  tasteful  home. 

A  cabinet  for  shells  or  minerals  should  never  be  deep  ;  and  if  more 
than  one  row  is  to  be  accommodated,  it  should  be  arranged  with  sloping 
shelves,  furnished  with  narrow  ledges,  in  order  to  preclude  the  possi- 
bihty  of  the  shells  sliding  down. 

A  beautiful  cabinet  of  this  kind  is  made  as  follows  :  Side  pieces,  eight 
inches  deep,  of  half-inch  pine,  three  feet  long  (or  high)  united  by  shelves 
four  feet  long — two  feet  for  each  half,  and  the  shelves  edged  with  a 
border  of  dark  pinked  leather. 

The  amateur  conchologist  should  be  guided  in  the  style  and  size  of 
case  or  cabinet  by  the  nature  of  his  collection.  A  set  of  small  shallow 
cases  made  of  thin  board  will  be  found  an  excellent  mode  of  arranging 
shells,  as  they  may  be  easily  removed  and  cleansed.  These  cases, 
placed  upon  the  receding  shelves,  are  arranged  so  that  the  lowest  one 
projects  two  or  three  inches  in  front  of  the  one  next  above  it.  They 
may  be  lined  with  velveteen,  silk,  satin,  or  even  tinted  muslin.  For 
those  lovely  shells  which  have  tints  of  unusual  beauty  and  curious 
markings,  pieces  of  looking-glass  placed  behind  and  beneath  the  speci- 
mens will  be  found  especially  effective,  as  by  this  means  the  entire 
shell  is  reflected  and  exposed ;  for   delicate  white  or  tinted   varieties, 


22  CASTS. 

black,  purple,  or  crimson  velvet  linings  will  be  found  most  desirable. 
Another  pretty  arrangement  for  certain  specimens  is  to  cut  a  series  of 
shield-shaped  or  rather  fanciful  tablets,  covered  with  a  layer  of  cotton 
flannel,  glued  to  the  surface,  with  velvet  on  the  top  in  the  same  man- 
ner, the  edges  covered  with  narrow  velvet  ribbon  glued  on  the  under 
side — or  chenille  is  pretty,  and  imparts  a  soft  effect  to  the  delicate  shell 
which  it  surrounds.  A  row  of  such  tablets  adds  materially  to  the 
beauty  of  the  cabinet. 

The  case  may  be  supported  on  a  pair  of  carved  brackets,  varnished 
and  bronzed ;  and  in  Heu  of  glass  doors,  soft  silk  or  wool  curtains,  fur- 
nished with  rings  and  running  on  a  rod  hung  on  small  brackets  at  the 
top  of  the  case,  will  shield  the  shells  from  dust.  These  curtains 
may  be  embroidered  or  hand-pointed. 

The  shells  should  be  fastened  in  place  with  the  following  cement : 
Take  one  ounce  of  gum  tragacanth  and  half  an  ounce  of  white  gum 
arable ;  dissolve  each  in  sufficient  water  to  form  a  thick  mucilage,  to 
which  add  a  few  drops  of  alcohol  to  prevent  moulding. 

Cards  cuts  in  some  tasteful  form,  marked  with  the  name  of  the  shells 
and  any  incident  desired  to  be  remembered,  should  be  fastened  to  the 
sides  of  each  case  or  tablet. 


CASTS. 


TO  CAST  FRUIT,  BRANCHES,  BIRDS,  INSECTS,  ETC. 

Provide  a  box  of  wood  or  paper  of  sufficient  size,  suspend  by  thread 
or  thin  wire  in  several  places  the  object  you  wish  to  cast.  Now  mix 
four  parts  of  plaster  of  Paris  with  two  parts  of  fine  brickdust ;  add 
water  to  bring  to  consistency  of  cream  ;  with  this  cover  the  article 
intended  to  be  cast,  using  care  not  to  disturb  it  from  the  natural  posi- 
tion. When  you  have  filled  your  box  with  the  plaster,  etc.,  let  it  harden 
and  make  an  opening  in  the  top  to  pour  the  metal  in.  Place  it  near 
the  fire  by  degrees  until  you  can  make  it  red-hot.  Then  let  it  cool  and 
with  a  bellows  blow  and  shake  out  all  the  ashes  from  the  mold  you 
can  ;  then  pour  in  some  quicksilver  and  shake  it  round  in  the  mold  in 
order  to  loosen  every  particle  of  the  ashes  therein  ;  also  make  a  passage 
through  where  the  strings  were  tied  in  order  to  let  out  the  gases  when 
you  pour  in  your  metal.  After  the  metal  is  sufficiently  cool  soak  the 
mold  in  water  and  remove  it  from  the  cast.  You  can  take  any  metal, 
such  as  silver,  block  tin,  etc.,  but  the  following  alloys  are  the  cheapest : 
Take  grains  tin,  six  parts ;  bismuth,  two  parts,  and  lead,  three  parts ; 
melt  together  in  an  iron  ladle.  This  v/ill  fill  out  splendidly.  Another 
still  more  fusible  alloy  is  :  Two  parts  bismuth,  one  part  lead  and  one 
part  tin. 


CHAIkS.  23 


CHAIKS. 

RESEATING   THEM. 

If  the  canes  are  much  broken  lace  them  together  with  cord,  then 
with  carpet  thread  and  a  big  needle,  fasten  on  a  piece  of  coarse  muslin, 
the  shape  of  the  original  seat ;  cut  another  the  same  shape  but  a  little 
larger  (of  this  keep  a  pattern).  Put  in  a  stuffing  of  hair  or  moss  and 
fasten  the  cloth  down  at  intervals  with  long  tacks. 

For  the  outside  cover  use  the  coarse  gray  linen,  such  as  is  sold  for 
crumb  cloths.  Get  as  dark  a  gray  as  possible.  Cut  the  linen  by  the 
pattern  you  have  and  nail  it  on  neatly  with  short  tacks,  burying  the 
heads  in  the  wood  to  prevent  them  wearing  holes  in  the  gimp  with 
which  you  must  border  the  cushioned  seats,  as  much  for  ornament  as 
to  conceal  the  edge  of  the  linen  cover  which  cannot  be  neatly  finished 
otherwise.  The  gimp  should  be  of  a  bright  color  to  contrast  with  the 
gray  and  light  it  up  prettily,  and  should  be  studded  with  gilt-headed  nails. 

An  improvement  can  be  made  by  working  the  Hnen  with  red  and 
blue  zephyr.  Do  not  try  to  bring  the  cover  over  the  edge  of  the  chair 
as  it  cannot  be  neatly  done. 

Flag  bottomed  chairs  can  be  made  to  look  nicely  by  first  taking  a 
strip  of  strong  cloth  as  wide  as  the  chair  seat,  and  twice  the  length, 
pass  it  under  the  chair  and  sew  it  tightly  together  on  the  top,  then  cut 
a  pattern,  exactly  fitting  the  chair  and  cover  with  rep,  cretonne,  or 
chintz.  Finish  with  a  border  of  the  same  about  three  inches  wide. 
Very  good  covers  can  be  pieced  log  cabin  style  and  finished  with  a 
valance  of  woolen  goods  pinked  around  the  edge. 


CHILDREN. 

IN-DOOR  AMUSEMENTS  FOR  THEM. 

For  a  swing  in  the  house,  procure  two  screws  with  hooks  on  the  end, 
and  fasten  »them  in  the  casing  above  an  inside  door  (one  which  leads 
from  sitting  to  dining-room,  or  one  which  connects  two  warm  rooms), 
and  then  fasten  a  rope  to  the  screws,  and  with  a  board  for  a  seat  you 
have  a  nice  swing  for  the  three-year  olds,  or  for  the  smaller  ones.  By 
a  little  patient  teaching  they  will  soon  learn  to  swing  and  amuse  them- 
selves for  a  long  time. 

For  children  older,  cut  and  plane  wooden  blocks  the  size  of  bricks, 


24:  CHILDREN. 

any  number  you  choose,  and  they  will  build  with  them  houses,  ships 
and  hundreds  of  other  things  your  imagination  never  would  conjure. 

Those  who  live  near  the  sea  shore,  or  are  accessible  to  the  lake  sand, 
or  nice  building  sand,  might  fill  a  flat  dry-goods  box  with  this  sand, 
bring  it  into  the  kitchen  and  provide  the  boys  and  girls  with  sticks  ;  you 
will  be  surprised  at  the  variety  of  animals  they  will  draw  in  it.  They 
might  even  use  their  fingers  without  fear  of  soiling  them,  for  it  is  clean 
and  easily  brushed  off. 

Another  :  Paste  some  pretty  colored  picture  on  pasteboard,  then  cut 
with  a  sharp  penknife  in  various  shapes,  and  give  to  the  children  to  put 
together  in  the  right  way  so  as  to  form  the  picture. 

Another  amusement  is  for  the  children  to  establish  a  post-box  in  their 
nursery  or  play-room.  Any  good-sized  cardboard  box  will  do  for  this 
purpose ;  the  lid  should  be  fastened  to  it,  so  that  when  it  is  stood  up  it 
will  open  like  a  cupboard  door ;  it  must  be  closed  by  means  of  a  button 
and  a  loop  of  elastic.  In  the  top  of  the  box,  as  it  stands  up,  or  in  the 
upper  end  of  the  door,  a  sHt  must  be  cut  out  about  an  inch  wide  and 
from  five  to  six  inches  long,  so  as  to  allow  of  the  postage  of  small  par- 
cels, but  yet  not  large  enough  to  admit  a  child's  hand  ;  while  on  the 
door  of  the  postoffice  should  be  written  the  times  of  the  post.  Most 
children  are  fond  of  writing  letters  to  one  another,  and  this  will,  of 
course,  give  rise  to  a  grand  manufacture  of  note  paper,  envelopes  and 
postal  cards,  and  they  will  call  forth  all  their  ingenuity  in  designing  and 
coloring  monograms  and  crests  for  their  note  paper  and  envelopes.  An 
envelope  must  be  taken  carefully  to  pieces  to  form  a  flat  pattern ;  then 
those  cut  from  it  have  to  be  folded,  gummed  together,  and  a  touch  of 
gum  put  on  the  tip  of  the  flap ;  a  monogram  to  correspond  with  the 
note  paper  drawn  on  it,  and,  finally,  they  must  be  done  up  in  neat  pack- 
ets, say  a  half  dozen  in  each.  It  is  wonderful  what  occupation  this 
post-box  will  afford  where  there  is  a  large  party  of  children  ;  of  course 
a  postman  must  be  chosen,  and  a  bag  must  be  made  for  the  letters,  and 
so  on. 

Another  occupation  is  to  make  a  museum,  and  this  will  set  all  to 
gathering  and  storing  up  a  collection  of  curiosities.  This  will  be  a  cure 
for  dullness  and  give  them  an  object  to  devote  themselves  to.  The  best 
receptacle  for  these  collections  is  a  cupboard,  with  plenty  of  shelves  in 
it,  if  possible.  One  shelf  must  be  devoted  to  boxes  of  minerals,  another 
to  trays  of  coins,  another  to  insects,  and  if  there  are  one  or  two  draw- 
ers to  hold  dried  plants,  so  much  the  better.  One  of  the  elder  children 
should  make  a  numbered  catalogue  of  the  collection,  the  numbers  in  the 
list  corresponding  with  numbers  that  must  be  neatly  gummed  to  the 
specimens.  Perhaps,  if  space  is  an  object,  it  would  be  better  to  have  a 
collection  of  only  one  class  of  things,  say  of  food  products,  or  of  seeds 
and  seed  vessels,  from  which  much  useful  information  may  be  obtained. 


DOLLS  OF  E  VER  V  D  ESC  RIP  TION.  25 


DOLLS  OF  EVERY  DESCRIPTION. 

These  can  easily  be  made  at  home.  Some  stout  muslin,  with  cotton 
batting  for  stuffing,  will  make  the  doll's  body,  while  a  very  little  skill 
will  paint  the  face  and  hair.  A  bit  of  scarlet  flannel  and  a  piece  of  old 
stocking  will  dress  the  feet,  and  a  jacket  or  basque,  with  trousers  or 
skirt,  will  determine  the  sex.  Not  difficult  to  manufacture,  with  a 
respectable  pattern  cut  first — and  certainly  not  expensive. 

The  John  Chinaman  is  a  great  favorite,  especially  with  young  chil- 
dren. This  gorgeous  doll  is  made  of  white  Canton  flannel;  and  he 
and  his  dress  are  cut  out  all  in  one  piece,  or,  rather,  in  two  pieces  just 
alike.  These  are  stitched  together  on  the  wrong  side,  and  turned,  leav- 
ing a  small  piece  at  the  top  of  the  head,  through  which  the  cotton  is 
stuffed.  The  stuffing  is  very  slight,  as  the  doll  is  quite  flat-looking  ;  and 
slanting  eyes,  with  an  appropriate  nose  and  mouth,  are  pen-and-inked 
on  the  face.  Then  some  black  worsted  is  braided  into  a  queue,  and 
tied  with  a  little  red  bow ;  and  this  is  sewed  on  the  back  of  the  head, 
which  is  covered  with  a  three-cornered  scarlet  cap,  ornamented  with  a 
yellow  tassel  at  each  point. 

The  Canton  flannel  is  loosely  button-holed  all  around  the  seams  with 
scarlet  worsted ;  and  a  blue  scarf,  button-holed  with  yellow,  is  passed 
over  one  shoulder  and  tied  at  the  opposite  side.  A  girdle  of  bells 
makes  a  very  complete  thing  of  John  Chinaman  ;  and  the  delight  of 
shaking  him  and  hearing  the  noise  is  quite  inexpressible.  The  bright 
colors,  too,  make  him  very  attractive  to  the  infantile  eye. 

One  dressed  in  white  Canton  flannel,  as  an  Esquimaux,  is  an  excel- 
lent toy  for  a  baby.  So  also  are  the  knitted  dolls.  These  are  knitted 
in  fine  worsted,  on  Nos.  i6  or  i8  needles,  and  should  be  knitted  to  a 
shape.  Lay  the  doll  down  and  draw  the  outline  in  order  to  get  the 
shape.  Knit  two  pieces  and  join  them.  A  face  is  knitted  with  an  oval 
piece  of  knitting,  and  drawn  over  an  old  face.  Rabbits,  cats  and  dogs 
are  all  made  in  the  same  manner.  They  should  be  knitted  in  loop 
stitch  or  loop  crotchet,  then  cut,  combed  and  stuffed. 

To  make  a  rag  doll  take  a  thick  stick  for  neck  stiffening  and  back 
bone ;  wind  the  end  of  that  with  paper  the  size  you  want  the  head  ; 
over  the  paper  wind  some  strips  of  cloth  to  bind  and  make  it  hard  as 
possible  ;  then  spread  some  cotton  batting  over  the  head,  and  take  some 
well-starched  and  ironed  white  cloth  and  draw  over  the  face  part,  diag- 
onally ;  it  will  not  then  wrinkle  so  badly ;  sew  up  on  the  back  and  on 
top.  Cut  cloth  for  the  body  like  a  dress  pattern  ;  stuff  tight  when  done 
and  put  on  hair ;  commence  gluing  at  the  nape  of  the  neck  small  locks 
cut  even ;  wet  about  half  an  inch  of  the  end  of  the  hair  and  lay  on  the 
head  and  press  it  down  with  the  end  of  a  small  stick ;  go  across  from 
ear  to  ear  with  row  after  row  till  you  get  to  the  crown  and  up  the  tern- 


26  CHILDREN. 

pies  ;  end  with  the  line  on  top  of  the  head.  This  time  do  not  use  more 
than  a  quarter  of  an  inch  of  the  hair,  and  finish  up  as  neatly  as  possi- 
ble ;  then  with  camel's  hair  brush  and  water  paints  mark  the  features. 

DOLLS'  HOUSES  AND  FURNITURE. 

A  large  packing  case  divided  into  four  compartments  by  two  shelves 
placed  crosswise  inside,  makes  an  excellent  doll's  house.  Any  carpen- 
ter will  fix  these  shelves  and  put  on  a  door  in  front  at  very  small 
expense.  The  four  compartments  make  a  dining-room,  drawing-room, 
kitchen  and  bed-room.  The  ceilings  should  be  covered  with  white 
glazed  calico,  pasted  on  ;  this  makes  a  good  imitation  of  whitewash. 
Pale  yellow  calico  pasted  on  the  kitchen  walls  answers  for  the  usual 
"  distempering  "  of  a  real.kitchen  ;  this  is  less  troublesome  than  painting 
or  applying  real  whitewash,  and  looks  quite  as  well.  The  calico  must 
be  strained  as  tightly  as  possible.  The  walls  of  the  other  rooms  should 
be  covered  with  paper.  Carpets  can  be  made  out  of  pieces  of  velvet, 
or,  better  still,  worked  on  canvas  in  a  small  pattern  suitable  to  the 
room.  This  is  a  capital  piece  of  easy  work  for  a  little  girl.  One  great 
advantage  in  the  doll's  house  as  a  toy  is  that,  like  a  doll,  it  induces  chil- 
dren to  practice  needle-work.  Real  carpet  is  too  thick  for  the  doll's 
rooms,  but  drugget  does  not  look  amiss.  Small  pictures,  cut  out  of 
papers  or  taken  off  bon-bons,  look  well  on  the  walls,  if  surrounded  by  a 
small  strip  of  gilt  paper  to  imitate  a  frame. 

Much  of  the  furniture  can  be  made  at  home.  Beds  are  easily  manu- 
factured. Take  an  old  notepaper  or  spool  box,  and  place  the  lid  up- 
right against  one  end,  the  box  being  turned  bottom  upward.  This 
forms  a  bed  with  a  back  and  tester.  Sew  the  lid  firmly  in«its  place,  and 
paste  pink  glazed  calico  within  and  without,  also  along  the  sides  ;  then 
cover  with  white  muslin  edged  with  lace,  arranged  like  the  curtains, 
draperies  and  valance  of  a  real  bed.  A  mattress,  stuffed  with  any 
scraps  of  wool  or  wadding,  sheets,  blankets  (of  flannel),  counterpane 
and  pillows  can  now  be  added.  Silk  patchwork  is  effective  for  the 
counterpane,  or  one  can  be  knitted  in  fine  wool  on  steel  pins,  in  strips 
of  red  and  white.     Lace  over  silk  is  very  pretty  for  a  counterpane. 

A  capital  wardrobe  can  be  made  of  another  such  box  without  the 
lid.  It  should  be  lined  inside  with  pink  or  white  glazed  calico,  and  cov- 
ered outside  with  paper.  Imitation  oak-paneling  looks  best.  Stand 
this  on  one  end,  put  a  row  of  bent  pins  at  the  back,  inside,  for  the  dolls 
to  hang  their  dresses  on,  and  close  the  entrance  by  a  curtain  of  some  soft 
material  (crimson  llama  or  merino  does  well). 

The  curtain  should  be  made  to  draw  to  and  fro ;  this  is  easily  man- 
aged by  running  a  wire  through  a  row  of  loops  at  the  back  of  the  cur- 
tain, and  then  fixing  it  across  the  door.  If  made  in  a  soft  material  (silk 
is  too  harsh),  it  will  draw  easily. 


COVERED  EASY  CHAIRS.  27 

A  table  does  well  for  a  wash-stand,  covered  with  a  thin  white  oilcloth 
or  marble  paper.  A  toilet  table  should  be  coverc^l  with  pink  calico 
and  draped  white  muslin,  to  match  the  bed. 

Tables  and  chairs  can  be  made  in  card-board,  but  they  are  hardly 
durable  enough  to  be  suitable  for  the  doll's  house.  If  the  family  con- 
tains a  brother  with  a  taste  for  carpentry,  he  had  better  be  applied  to. 
Tables  and  chairs  are  easily  made,  even  by  amateur  carpenters.  If 
done  neatly,  it  will  be  sufficient  to  paint  the  legs  and  back  to  imitate 
whatever  wood  is  desired — varnishing  is  a  sticky  and  smelly  operation, 
and  hardly  one  to  be  recommended  to  young  folks  who  have  any 
respect  for  their  own  frocks  or  their  parents'  carpets. 

Extremely  pretty  chairs  can  be  made  by  covering  the  wood  with 
strong  gum  and  then  laying  cut  straw  regularly  side  by  side  upon  it 
till  the  chair  is  covered.  Sofas  without  arms  can  be  made  out  of  an 
empty  hook-and-eye  box  ;  turn  the  box  bottom  upward  to  form  the  seat, 
sew  a  piece  of  card  against  one  side  to  form  the  back,  and  cover  the 
back  and  seat  first  with  a  thin  layer  of  wadding,  then  with  silk,  velvet 
or  chintz. 

DOLLS'  WEDDINGS  AND   COSTUMES. 

Of  course  it  is  the  dolls  that  are  invited  ;  their  mistresses  or  mothers 
only  take  them  to  witness  the  ceremony  of  marriage  between  the 
young  lady  and  gentleman  doll,  owned  by  some  one  of  their  friends, 
It  is  necessary  that  the  misses  who  give  the  party  should  have  quite  an 
array  of  elegantly  dressed  dolls.  Besides  the  bride  and  groom,  there 
must  be  the  mother  and  father  of  the  bride,  a  minister,  the  groom's 
best  man,  and  sisters,  or  bridesmaids  for  the  bride. 

The  dolls  who  are  invited  are  the  spectators,  still  some  of  them  may 
be  invited  as  "best  man,"  and  as  bridesmaids. 

For  costumes  :  Dress  one  as  a  bride,  white  tulle  dress  and  veil,  long 
train  ;  the  bridesmaids  in  pink  tarlatan  ;  groom  in  black  suit,  white  vest ; 
groomsmen  the  same.  Place  them  in  order  around  the  altar.  After 
the  ceremony  a  wedding  cake  is  cut,  with  a  tiny  ring  in  it,  and  lemon- 
ade is  served  with  more  cake,  and,  perhaps,  ice  cream.  A  very  impor- 
tant part  of  the  fun  is  the  presentation  of  presents  ;  but  it  is  all  lost  if 
these  are  made  costly  or  of  large  size.  Tiny  bits  of  imitation  jewelry, 
doll  china,  small  pictures  and  miniature  bouquets  are  the  proper  articles, 
and  add  enormously  to  the  jollity  of  the  occasion. 

COVERED   EASY  CHAIRS. 

Get  a  nail  keg,  or  what  is  better,  a  spice  keg,  from  a  grocery  store ; 
make  a  mark  around  it  one  inch  above  the  second  row  of  hoops  from 
the  bottom,  which  will  be  about  eight  inches  from  the  end  of  the  keg ; 
saw  off  the  staves  on  the  mark  one  third  of  the  way  around.  Weave 
wire  or  stout  twine  back  and  forth  through  the  holes  for  the  seat.    Cut 


28  CHILDREN. 

off  the  corners  of  the  back  more  or  less,  as  it  suits  your  fancy.  Cover 
it  inside  and  out  with  old  pieces  of  bed  quilt  or  carpet ;  put  three  or  four 
thicknesses  of  cotton  on  the  inside  of  the  back,  then  cover  the  whole 
with  chintz,  or  any  pretty  cloth.  For  the  cushion  cut  two  sound  pieces 
of  cloth  a  little  larger  than  the  seat,  sew  a  strip  of  cloth  two  inches  wide 
between  them,  and  stuff  the  cushion  with  hay  or  cotton.  The  cushion 
is  much  handsomer  if  bound  with  red  or  blue  braid,  and  tufted  with  the 
same  color.     They  are  nice  to  make  for  fairs,  as  they  sell  very  readily. 

A   NEW  ENGLAND    SCHOOL. 

Procure  a  wooden  box  (a  starch  box  will  be  about  the  right  size), 
take  out  one  side  and  cut  a  window  in  each  end.  Paint  it  if  you  like. 
The  outside  maybe  painted  to  represent  bricks,  or  paint  it  brown,  but 
before  the  paint  is  dry,  sprinkle  fine  white  sand  over  it.  A  square  piece 
of  wood  glued  to  the  bottom  of  the  box  answers  for  a  platform.  For  a 
penny  you  can  buy  a  toy  table,  which  is  for  the  teacher's  desk.  Make 
some  little  benches  of  spools  of  different  sizes,  placed  in  rows  each  side 
of  the  box,  leaving  a  space  through  the  center  for  an  aisle. 

Cut  some  small  maps  from  an  old  geography,  paste  them  on  card- 
board, bind  with  braid  or  narrow  strips  of  paper,  and  hang  upon  the 
sides.  On  each  side  of  the  desk  paste  a  blackboard,  made  of  black 
card-board,  with  figures  and  letters  written  thereon.  Put  up  a  row  of 
hooks  made  of  bent  pins,  with  little  hats  and  bonnets  hung  on  them. 
The  kid  tops  that  come  on  perfume  bottles  make  cunning  little  hats. 

Now  our  school-house  is  ready  for  the  scholars,  which  are  made  as 
follows  :  For  the  bodies  use  stiff  wire ;  bonnet  wire  is  best.  Take  a 
piece  of  wire  and  draw  out  the  length  from  head  to  foot,  allowing  suf- 
ficient length  for  the  feet ;  turn  up  again  to  lower  part  of  body,  twist 
around  around  and  cut  off.  Take  another  piece  long  enough  for  the 
arms  and  hands.  Twist  it  around  the  shoulders,  letting  the  two  ends 
spread  out  in  shape  of  a  cross.  Now  take  some  raisins,  select  the 
largest  for  heads,  put  one  on  the  wire  for  the  neck  and  a  large  one 
above  that  for  the  head ;  sew  two  white  beads  in  for  eyes  and  three  or 
four  for  the  teeth.  The  nose  will  come  quite  natural  without  any  assis- 
tance. String  the  arms  and  legs,  turning  up  the  ends  to  form  the  feet. 
Dress  them  according  to  fancy,  some  as  boys  with  smock  frocks,  swal- 
low-tailed coats,  stand-up  collars,  etc.,  and  others  as  girls  with  dresses, 
aprons,  wide  ruffles  around  their  necks,  etc.  The  figures  being  made 
of  wire  you  can  bend  them  in  any  position  you  wish ;  some  with  their 
hands  to  their  faces  as  though  crying,  others  with  their  hands  turned  as 
if  whispering,  some  with  books  in  their  hands  in  the  act  of  studying. 

Books  are  made  of  paper  cut  and  sewed  together.  Put  one  boy  in 
the  corner  with  a  dunce  cap  on  his  head  and  have  a  tardy  scholar 
just  stepping  in  with  her  school  bag  on  her  arm. 


HOME-MADE  TOYS.  29 

For  the  teacher  make  a  rag  body,  using  a  sharp-pointed  hickory  nut 
for  a  head ;  put  on  a  ruffled  cap,  a  black  dress  with  a  three-cornered 
handkerchief  pinned  across  her  shoulders  ;  make  the  hands  of  a  small 
piece  of  putty  or  wax ;  seat  her  behind  the  desk  and  you  have  quite  a 
formidable-looking  teacher.  Place  some  books  and  a  birch  rod  made 
of  broom-corn  on  the  desk. 

HOME-MADE  TOYS. 

To  make  a  Santa  Claus,  take  five  large  pine  cones,  two  for  the  arms, 
two  for  the  legs  and  one  for  the  body ;  glue  them  together  and  wind 
them  round  with  wire ;  cut  the  boots  out  of  wood  ;  set  them  on  a 
block,  sharpen  the  upper  ends,  and  insert  them  in  holes  bored  in  the 
legs;  glue  the  head  and  hands  of  an  ordinary  jointed  doll  on  the  body 
and  arms ;  make  the  beard  and  hair  of  flax,  and  fit  a  fur  cap  on  the 
head ;  put  a  girdle  of  dried  moss  around  the  waist  to  conceal  the  wire, 
and  a  knit  tippet  on  the  neck ,  fasten  a  pasteboard  basket,  filled  with 
candies  and  tiny  toys,  on  the  back ;  throw  a  netted  bag,  with  nuts  and 
lady-apples,  over  one  shoulder,  and  put  a  miniature  Christmas  tree  in 
one  hand  and  a  nut-cracker  and  switch  in  the  other. 

To  make  an  old  lady :  Take  some  white  sheet  wadding,  roll  up  a 
piece  to  make  the  body,  also  two  smaller  rolls  for  arms,  these  attach  to 
the  body :  then  take  another  piece  and  sew  it  up  for  a  skirt ;  work 
around  the  bottom  in  button-hole  stitch  with  zephyr,  and  gather  the  top 
and  fasten  to  the  body.  Make  another  skirt  for  the  dress,  then  cut  out 
a  circular  piece  for  a  cloak,  work  this  around  same  as  the  dress  ;  also, 
make  a  hood  with  a  cape,  worked  like  the  rest ;  make  a  small  muff,  and 
put  the  hands  in  it.  Two  beads  will  serve  for  eyes  and  a  thread  for  the 
mouth.  These  look  very  pretty  on  Christmas  trees,  are  inexpensive, 
and  will  please  the  little  folks. 

A  fig  Indian  will  also  amuse  them.  Take  a  large,  perfect  fig,  flatten 
it,  pinch  out  a  nose ;  white  beads  for  teeth,  with  a  long  switch  of  red 
worsted  for  Hps  ;  black  bead  eyes,  run  a  double  wire  lengthwise  through 
the  head  ;  put  on  another  fig  for  waist ;  bind  wire  around  the  body  for 
arms ;  string  on  raisins ;  another  fig  for  body ;  the  rest  string  with  rais- 
ins for  legs ;  turn  the  wire  for  feet ;  bend  the  ends  to  fasten.  Dress  in 
pants  with  small  feathers  down  the  sides,  a  mantle  of  some  bright  color 
for  blanket — belt  around  the  waist.  Tall  feathers  stuck  in  top  of 
head ;  small  downy  ones  on  the  sides  and  back ;  bow  in  one  hand,  arrow 
in  the  other. 

Red-Riding  Hood  is  made  by  taking  a  small  bottle  with  a  cork  ;  on 
that  fit  a  small  doll  head.  Dress  in  red  skirt  and  large  cape  and  hood ; 
pink  with  scissors  all  around.     Fill  the  bottle  with  perfumery. 

Rabbits,  too,  are  very  pretty  made  of  gray  velveteen  and  white  plush. 
Stuffed  with  wool,  and  with  pink  or  black  beads  used  for  eyes. 


30  CHILDREN, 

Dancing  men  may  be  made  of  cork  dressed  up,  and  with  black  silk 
strings  to  make  them  dance.  Men  and  animals  cut  out  of  cardboard, 
painted,  and  joined  together  with  strong  twine,  afford  great  amusement, 
and  are  just  as  good  as  can  be  purchased. 

ZEPHYR  AND  RUBBER  BALLS. 

Soft  balls  can  be  made  of  ravelings  of  mittens  or  stockings,  or  even 
of  cotton  wool  wrapped  lightly  around  a  small  pill-box  or  tin  box,  in 
which  a  few  shot  have  been  placed,  to  make  a  sharp  rattle  in  which  all 
babies  take  delight.  Bind  the  outside  of  the  ball  with  some  brightly 
colored  yarns  or  worsteds,  and  then  crochet  a  cover  in  long  stitch.  A 
braided  string,  with  a  tassel  at  the  end,  can  be  sewed  on  at  one  side  of 
the  ball,  by  which  to  swing  it  in  the  air,  and  if  these  soft  zephyr  balls 
are  attached  to  a  cord  in  the  same  way,  they  are  soft  and  nice  even  if 
baby  hits  himself  in  the  face  with  it. 

A  hard  ball  can  be  made  by  cutting  an  old  rubber  shoe  into  small 
strips  and  winding  tightly  one  over  the  other.  Then  ravel  out  an  old 
stocking  and  wind  it  over  the  rubber.  Take  bright  scarlet,  gold  and 
blue  worsteds  and  knit  in  stripes  a  piece  three  inches  wide  and  five 
inches  in  length.  Sew  the  ends  together,  put  in  the  ball  and  gather  up 
the  edges  with  strong  silk.  Or  the  cover  can  be  knitted  the  shape  of 
the  ball. 

QUAKERESS  PINCUSHION. 

The  little  Quakeress  pincushion  is  made  by  taking  a  circular  piece  of 
pasteboard  about  two  inches  in  diameter,  also  a  piece  of  black  silk,  but  a 
little  larger  (enough  to  allow  for  seam  all  around) ;  take  another  piece 
of  black  silk,  about  three  inches  deep  and  wide  enough  to  go  all  around 
the  circular  piece  ;  sew  the  two  together  to  form  the  skirt ;  next  turn  the 
seams  all  on  the  inside,  put  the  pasteboard  on  the  bottom,  fill  with  bran 
or  sawdust,  get  a  small,  wooden  doll,  such  as  are  sold  in  the  toy  stores 
at  a  cent  or  two  apiece,  stand  up  in  the  center  of  the  bran,  gather  the  top^ 
of  the  skirt  around  the  waist,  and  put  on  a  shawl,  of  soft  gray  woolen 
or  silk ;  make  a  little  Quaker  bonnet  of  pasteboard  covered  with  gray 
silk,  something  the  shape  of  the  old-fashioned  shaker  bonnet  minus  the 
curtain.  Make  an  umbrella  of  half  a  hairpin  and  a  piece  of  black  silk, 
crook  one  end  so  that  it  can  hang  on  the  arm,  also  a  small  black  velvet 
bag  to  hang  on  the  other  arm,  bend  the  hands  inward  and  your  Quak- 
eress is  completed.  If  you  prefer  a  grandma,  put  on  a  white  apron, 
white  neckerchief  and  white  frilled  cap. 

REINS    AND    WHIP. 

For  children's  reins,  cast  on  twenty  stitches  of  four-thread  wool,  and 
knit,  in  plain  knitting,  a  strip  of  ten  inches  in  length,  always  slipping 
the  first  stitch  of  every  row  ;  cast  off.     To  each  end  of  this  stripe  is 


PICTURE  SCRAP-BOOKS.  31 

attached  a  circle  for  the  arms,  which  is  made  thus :  Take  a  piece  of 
cord,  the  kind  used  for  hanging  pictures,  and  make  a  circle  the  size  of 
a  child's  arm  at  the  shoulder ;  sew  the  ends  firmly  together,  splicing  the 
one  a  little  past  the  other.  Then  cover  the  cord  with  cotton,  wool  or 
flannel  to  make  it  soft ;  then  cover  lastly  with  a  strip  of  knitting,  cast- 
ing on  eight  stitches  and  knitting  the  length  required,  plain  every  row ; 
sew  it  on  over- cast,  on  the  inner  side.  Before  attaching  the  stripe  to 
the  arm-holes  there  should  be  sewn  upon  it,  with  some  contrasting 
color,  a  name,  such  as  Beauty,  Fairy,  etc.,  and  to  the  under  edge  should 
be  attached  three  or  four  little  bells.  If  the  knitting  be  of  green  or 
crimson,  make  the  letters  in  yellow,  with  gilt  bells.  When  attaching 
this  stripe  for  the  chest  to  the  arm-holes,  do  not  let  the  sewing  be  seen, 
but  overcast  on  the  inner  side  to  the  overcasting  on  the  arm-holes. 
Cast  on  eight  stitches  and  knit,  in  plain  knitting,  a  rein  the  length 
required — two  and  a  half  yards  being  long  enough,  as  it  stretches  with 
use.  Attach  the  ends  to  the  arm-holes  at  the  back,  sewing  to  the  over- 
casting. Then  finish  by  knitting  a  stripe  twenty  stitches  m  breadth  and 
ten  inches  in  length,  the  ends  of  which  sew  to  the  arm-holes  at  the 
back,  at  the  same  place  as  the  rein. 

For  whip,  cover  a  willow  wand,  eighteen  inches  long,  with  leather, 
and  wind  on  two  threads  of  double  zephyr,  so  that  they  are  clearly 
defined  ;  on  the  point  of  the  wand  wind  worsted  closely,  at  the  same 
time  fastening  in  a  small  loop  of  leather  ;  on  the  under  end  of  the  wand 
fasten  a  strip  of  leather,  nine  inches  long,  and  ornament  with  bells. 

PICTURE  SCRAP-BOOKS. 

A  gift  that  gives  pleasure  to  the  children,  and  one  they  never  seem 
to  tire  of,  is  the  picture  scrap-book.  These  can  be  made  of  colored 
paper  or  cambric,  with  edges  either  pinked  or  bound,  and  put  between 
pasteboard  covers.  There  are  many  velvet  wall  papers  now  sold 
by  the  yard  that  will  make  beautiful  covers  if  pasted  carefully  over 
the  pasteboard  or  colored  cloth,  or,  portfolio  covers  are  pretty  and 
serviceable.  They  can  also  be  made  of  white  cloth,  old  sheets  or 
pillow  cases,  and  on  these  carefully-pasted  borders  of  bright  colored 
paper,  pictures  from  fruit  cans,  magazines,  advertising  cards  and 
illustrated  cuts  from  papers.  After  a  book  is  once  commenced,  you 
will  be  astonished  to  see  how  quickly  it  can  be  filled.  Then  there  are 
the  scrap-book  and  embossed  pictures,  which  are  so  cheap  and  easily 
obtained  in  these  days.  Another  way  to  make  the  books,  is  to  place 
the  picture  only  on  one  side  of  the  cloth ;  after  they  are  thoroughly 
dried  and  pressed  smoothly  with  a  half-heated  flat  iron,  place  two 
of  the  pieces  together  and  button-hole  them  with  a  scarlet,  blue 
or  yellow  zephyr,  so  as  to  make  one  leaf  for  the  book.  Make  the 
stitches  very  sparsely,  and  when  the  leaves  are  all  button-holed  lay 


32  CORAL. 

them  smoothly  together  and  pierce  a  hole  through  the  top,  bottom 
and  the  middle  of  them,  tie  together  with  a  narrow  ribbon,  and  the  book 
is  finished.  The  best  way  is  to  make  the  book  as  you  get  the  pictures, 
and  not  wait  until  all  the  pictures  are  gathered  in  before  the  book  is 
commenced. 


CORAL. 


ARTIFICIAL  BRANCHES  AND   TWIGS. 

Take  clear  rosin  and  dissolve  it  in  a  brass  pan,  to  every  ounce  of 
which  add  two  drachms  of  the  finest  vermillion ;  when  stirred  well 
together  take  twigs  and  branches  ;  peel  and  dry  them ;  then  with  a  pencil 
paint  the  branches  all  over  while  the  composition  is  warm  ;  afterwards 
shape  them  in  imitation  of  real  coral.  This  done,  hold  the  branches 
over  a  gentle  fire  till  all  is  as  smooth  and  even  as  if  polished. 

This  mixture  gives  a  very  pretty  effect  to  glass,  twigs,  raisin  stalks, 
cinders,  stones,  or  anything  odd  and  grotesque,  if  dipped  into  the  mix- 
ture and  then  dried. 

Brackets  and  frames  may  be  made  to  resemble  coral,  by  making  the 
frame  first  of  wire,  dipping  it  into  the  mixture  and  then  winding  or 
tying  the  branches  on  to  the  foundation.  After  all  is  finished,  it  should 
be  again  dipped  into  the  mixture,  so  that  the  knots  and  ends  may  be 
covered. 


CORK   WORK. 


RURAL  PICTURES  AND  MODELS. 


In  this  Study  no  tools  are  required,  except  a  sharp  penknife  and  a 
glue  pot.  The  waste  and  refuse  pieces  of  cork  will  be  of  use  ;  but 
for  the  walls  of  buildings  the  cork  cut  from  the  blocks,  into  sheets,  will 
be  desirable,  and  can  be  procured  from  the  importers  or  cork-cutters. 

We  will  suppose  that  the  model  chosen  by  the  amateurs  is  a  rural 
church  with  Gothic  windows  and  tapering  spire.  The  first  thing  will 
be  to  decide  on  the  size ;  say  nine  inches  in  length,  and  about  four  and 
a  half  in  width,  with  the  windows  and  spire  accurately  proportioned. 
The  cork  for  the  side  walls  must  be  cut  first  into  pieces  as  large  as  the 
block  or  sheet  will  allow,  making  the  edges  smooth  and  square.  If  it 
is  too  small  for  the  entire  side  wall  piece  it  out  with  the  fragments, 
joining  them  neatly  together  with  thin  glue. 

The  proper  thickness  for  the  cork  used  in  the  walls  is  about  one-half 
or  even  one-quarter  of  an  inch,  and  the  smoothest  cork  should  always 


CORK  WORK.  83 

be  chosen  for  this  work.  When  the  required  size  has  been  obtained, 
square  it  smoothly  to  the  shape  called  for,  having  the  two  side  walls 
exactly  alike.  Next  mark  out  with  a  black  lead  pencil  the  shape  of  the 
windows  and  cut  them  with  a  penknife,  making  the  openings  smaller 
on  the  inner  side  but  slanting  outwardly ;  especially  in  the  sill  the  slope 
is  very  considerable,  and,  in  gothic  windows,  should  never  be  fiat  or 
square.  For  molding  around  the  windows,  cut  out  small  rims  of  cork, 
as  nearly  as  possible  like  your  pattern,  and  glue  them  on  at  a  proper 
distance  from  the  outer  edges ;  the  glass  to  be  formed  of  thin  sheets  of 
mica,  glued  on  the  inside,  and  the  tracery  for  the  tops  of  the  windows 
can  be  formed  of  tiny  shavings  of  cork  cut  out  by  the  pattern  and  glued 
in  place  upon  the  mica.  Any  architectural  drawing  of  the  style  of 
building  will  be  a  sufficient  guide.  The  appearance  of  stained  glass 
can  be  given  by  gumming  dark  crimson  paper  on  the  inside  over  the 
mica,  or  small  diaphanic  pictures  may  be  used. 

The  gables  are  next  prepared  in  like  manner,  with  doors,  triplet  win- 
dows, etc.,  as  the  pattern  may  require.  When  the  walls  are  ready  to 
be  joined,  a  small  board,  neatly  covered  with  green  cloth  or  baize,  will 
be  the  most  suitable  base  on  which  to  mount  it. 

The  four  walls  may  now  be  set  up  and  joined  with  glue,  or,  if  not 
sufficiently  firm,  small  pieces  of  wood  shaven  so  as  to  fit  the  inner  cor- 
ners will  "be  of  service  to  strengthen  and  support  the  edifice. 

The  roof  comes  next,  and  can  be  made  either  of  smooth,  seasoned 
wood,  about  a  sixteenth  of  an  inch  thick,  or  of  bookbinders'  board ;  the 
former  is,  however,  the  best  of  the  two.  Cut  the  board  large  enough 
to  extend  well  over  the  edges  of  the  walls,  so  as  to  form  eaves  ;  glue 
one  side  firmly  along  the  gable  ends,  and  then  fit  the  peak  of  the  other 
side  and  fasten  it  in  like  manner.  A  roof  with  a  high  pitch  adds  much 
to  the  tasteful  appearance  of  a  rustic  church,  and  will,  therefore,  be 
found  most  desirable  in  the  cork  model. 

If  there  is  to  be  a  steeple,  the  tower  or  base  of  the  spire  should  be 
formed  of  small  pieces  cut  so  as  to  fit  the  slopes  of  the  roof,  and  built 
up  in  the  same  way  that  a  mason  joins  bricks  or  square  blocks  in  a 
wall.  When  it  is  square  and  flat  on  the  top,  and  just  above  the  peak 
of  the  roof,  the  tapering  spire  should  start  from  this  foundation,  with  a 
round  or  eight-sided  piece  of  cork,  whose  four  opposite  sides  are  exactly 
the  size  of  the  square  base  on  which  it  is  to  be  glued.  This  will  form 
the  first  layer,  and  the  next  one  must  be  of  the  same  shape  but  a  tnfle 
smaller;  this  in  turn  will  be  covered  with  another  still  less,  and  so  on 
till  it  approaches  a  point. 

It  will  be  much  better  to  form  this  spire  separately  from  the  tower, 

gluing  each  layer  firmly  into  its  place.     When    all    are   joined    shave 

them  carefully,  so  as  to  form  the  proper  slope,  causing  it  to  end   in  a 

graceful  point ;  it  may  then  be  glued  on  to  the  base,  and  thus  the  main 

3 


34  CORK  WORK. 

part  of  the  design  is  completed.  Common  bottle  corks,  of  various 
sizes,  are  best  for  spires  and  columns.  The  outside  ornaments— a  cross 
or  vane  for  the  point  of  the  spire,  the  buttresses,  porches  over  the 
entrances,  moldings  around  the  doors,  eaves,  etc. — may  now  be  added, 
and  finally,  the  roof  may  be  colored  with  a  little  Vandyke  brown  or 
burned  umber,  mixed  either  in  turpentine  or  oil.  A  single  coat  will  be 
sufficient,  and  if  a  rough  appearance  is  desired  a  little  fine  sand  maybe 
dusted  over  while  the  oil  paint  is  yet  wet. 

In  case  no  large  sheets  of  cork  are  within  reach,  small  pieces  of 
waste  cork  can  be  used  for  the  purpose,  by  cutting  them  into  square 
blocks  of  any  size,  only  observing  that  they  must  fit  smoothly  on  the 
edges ;  they  can  then  be  built  up  Hke  mason  work,  with  a  little  glue  to 
join  them.  Be  careful  in  all  this  work  that  the  glue  is  not  allowed  to 
appear  on  the  outside.  Corinthian  columns  are  made  by  gluing 
together  bottle  corks  until  the  desired  hight  is  obtained,  and  then  carv- 
ing with  a  sharp  knife  to  imitate  the  fluted  sides,  with  square  blocks 
for  the  bases  and  capitals. 

Perhaps  some  of  you  may  not  be  able  to  procure  the  sheet 
cork,  but  if  they  will  cut  large  corks  into  shavings  it  will  answer,  by 
gluing  these  on  a  framework  of  thin  wood,  or  stiff  pasteboard,  cutting 
out  window  and  door  holes,  and  marking  into  rough  stone  with  black 
and  gray  crayons.  By  picking  out  the  surface  with  a  blunt  knife  the 
rained  parts  may  be  simulated  very  naturally,  while  any  ornamental 
carving,  curious  characters,  and  tracery  found  on  old  walks,  may  be 
imitated  with  lampblack,  raw  sienna,  umber,  etc.,  mixed  in  copal  varn- 
ish. At  the  bottom,  the  walls  may  be  further  strengthened  by  gluing 
pieces  of  rough  cork  against  them,  to  represent  fallen  arches,  broken 
pillars,  bits  of  wall,  etc.  Then,  to  imitate  the  ivy  colored  parts,  paint 
the  surface  with  glue  or  gum  and  sprinkle  thickly  with  dried  moss, 
affixing  sprays  here  and  there  in  a  natural,  graceful  way. 

From  some  shaded  recesses  thick  masses  should  be  arranged  as 
though  the  luxuriant  growth  had  fairly  filled  the  cavity  and  come  bub- 
bling forth  in  wild,  uncultivated  profusion. 

Broken  columns  and  fallen  blocks  of  stone,  shattered  capitals  and 
ruined  arches,  are  beautifully  represented  in  cork  by  carving  with  a 
sharp  knife,  partially  covering  with  moss  and  lichens,  and  touching  up 
with  suitable  colors.  A  little  wall  and  old  gate  are  made  with  cork 
and  darkened  with  sienna. 

Buildings  of  this  material  may  be  introduced  into  rustic  pictures 
with  excellent  effect,  but  they  must  be  much  smaller  than  for  a  model. 

LANDSCAPES  AND  CASTLES. 

Another  variety  of  cork  work,  quite  different  from  the  above,  is  the 
landscape  or  pictured  style.     In  this,  fine  shavings  of  the  cork  are  used. 


CJ^OSS£S  FOR   CABINETS.  36 

being  cut  into  shapes  to  represent  a  castle,  a  lighthouse  with  rocks 
near  by,  a  bridge,  or  whatever  else  may  be  chosen  to  form  the  design. 

A  little  idea  of  perspective  will  be  necessary,  and  the  objects  should 
be  arranged  and  fastened  with  gum  arabic  on  to  a  piece  of  white  card- 
board, and  the  sky  slightly  tinted  in  water  colors  for  a  background. 
The  irregular  edges  will  increase  the  resemblance  to  distant  hills,  and 
sharp  edges  of  thicker  cork  will  represent  the  objects  in  the  foreground. 

In  these  landscapes  no  attempt  is  made  to  imitate  nature  in  the  vari- 
ety of  colors ;  the  whole  picture  will  wear  the  sombre  shade  of  the  cork 
itself,  but  the  general  effect  is  very  pleasing  notwithstanding,  and  the 
thin,  rough  shavings  of  the  cork,  showing  the  light  background  through 
the  interstices,  give  a  good  idea  of  brown  autumnal  forests  when  grace- 
fully grouped  in  front  or  on  the  sides  of  the  picture. 

A  pretty  picture  is  a  distant  castle,  with  thick  masses  of  trees  and 
bushes  on  each  side  of  the  picture,  and  a  pretty  bridge  with  arches. 
No  cork  is  placed  where  the  water  appears.  The  card  is  left  bare  and 
then  tinted  like  the  sky  with  water  colors.  A  little  green  moss  should 
be  neatly  gummed  on,  which  adds  much  to  the  effect,  as  it  represents 
the  ivy  and  other  creeping  vines  growing  over  the  walls  of  the  castle 
and  grounds. 


CBOSSES  FOR  CABINETS. 

QUARTZ,  MINERALS  AND  SHELLS. 

Have  a  wooden  cross  made,  twelve  or  fifteen  inches  high  and  one 
and  one-half  inches  in  diameter,  with  a  base  that  has  three  steps  (made 
by  using  three  different  sizes  of  blocks  one  inch  thick) ;  let  the  lower 
one  be  six  inches  square ;  have  the  cross  fastened  in  the  center  of  these 
steps.  Cover  this  with  putty  (which  must  be  used  while  moist),  and 
1)1  ace  the  quartz  and  minerals  irregularly  all  over  the  cross ;  take  a  few 
of  the  minerals,  and  fine  sand ;  pound  up  the  minerals  fine,  sift  the 
sand  over  the  pounded  mass  and  sprinkle  it  in  the  interstices  made  by 
the  minerals  not  covering  the  entire  cross. 

One  can  be  made  of  shells  in  the  same  way,  only  using  small  shells, 
bits  of  broken  china,  glass  and  sand  to  fill  up  the  smaller  spaces.  Avoid 
regularity  as  that  spoils  the  effect.  Spar,  quartz  and  mineral  specimens 
may  be  preserved  in  this  way,  as  even  the  smallest  pieces  may  be  used. 
With  each  piece  numbered,  and  a  corresponding  catalogue  giving  num- 
ber and  description  of  specimen,  these  make  a  very  valuable  acquisi- 
tion to  a  cabinet  where  all  the  articles  are  labelled. 


36  CJiVS  TALLIZA  TIONS. 


GRYSTALLIZATIONS. 

FERNS  AND  GRASSES. 

Alum,  if  dissolved  in  cold  water,  will  take  about  fifteen  parts  of  water 
to  one  of  alum,  or  a  pint  of  water  to  an  ounce  of  pure  alum  ;  but,  by 
dissolving  in  boiling  water,  the  pint  of  water  will  take  up  a  pound  of 
alum.  It  is  by  this  process  the  crystals  are  formed,  and  herein  is  where 
many  persons  fail ;  that  is,  the  attempt  to  crystallize  by  dissolving  only 
the  amount  of  alum  that  cold  water  will  take,  whereas  the  proper 
method  is  to  continue  adding  alum  until  a  "  saturated  solution "  is 
formed,  or  it  will  dissolve  no  more,  whenever  large  and  heavy  masses 
of  cr}'stals  are  desired ;  but  if  delicate  and  well-defined  small  crystals 
are  formed,  make  a  boiling  solution  of  water,  and  only  an  ounce  or  so 
of  alum,  which  will  cover  the  objects  placed  in  it  while  hot,  with  perfect 
crystals  when  it  becomes  cold.  For  an  ordinary  collection  of  grasses 
and  ferns,  sufficient  for  two  bouquets  or  a  basket,  take  a  pound  of  alum 
and  one  gallon  of  water ;  boil  until  dissolved,  and  when  cool,  having 
tied  the  grass  in  small  bundles,  pour  the  solution  of  alum  into  a  glazed 
jar  or  basin,  and  placing  sticks  across  the  rim,  from  side  to  side,  sus- 
pend the  branches  from  these  so  that  they  hang  down  and  are  immersed 
in  the  water ;  then  place  the  jar  in  a  safe  place  where  it  will  not  be  dis- 
turbed during  a  whole  night.  Do  not  expect  that  the  crj^stals  will  be 
always  formed  as  soon  as  the  solution  becomes  cold,  for  it  may  be 
twelve  or  fifteen  hours,  perhaps  even  longer,  before  the  deposit  com- 
mences. 

When  the  grasses,  etc.,  appear  sufficiently  coated,  remove  and  hang 
them  up  to  drain,  and  dry  off.  Slender  grass  should  not  be  too  heavily 
crystallized,  as  it  causes  it  to  bend  too  much  to  appear  graceful.  This, 
however,  will  be  learned  by  experience.  It  is  sometimes  desirable  to 
give  the  crystals  a  frosty  appearance ;  this  is  done  by  placing  them 
before  the  fire  where  the}'  will  dry  rapidly,  and  gives  them  a  white 
look,  like  crushed  ice  or  frosted  snow. 

FRESH  FLOWERS. 

Make  baskets  of  pliable  copper  wire  and  wrap  them  with  gauze. 
Into  these  tie  to  the  bottom,  violets,  ferns,  geranium  leaves,  in  fact  any 
flowers  except  full  blown  roses,  and  sink  them  in  a  solution  of  alum — 
after  the  solution  has  cooled,  as  their  colors  will  then  be  preserved  in 
their  original  beauty,  and  the  cr^^stallized  alum  will  hold  faster  than  if 
dipped  in  a  hot  solution.  When  you  have  a  light  covering  of  distinct 
crystals  that  cover  completely  the  articles,  remove  carefully  and  allow 


FRAME  FOR   WINTER  SCENE.  37 

it  to  drain  for  twelve  hours.  Common  willow  or  fancy  baskets  for 
grasses  or  flowers  are  pretty  dipped  in  this  way.  Cornucopias  made  in 
any  fancy  design  and  dipped  in  alum,  or  imitation  coral  receivers  are 
each  pretty  for  autumn  leaves,  ferns  or  grasses. 

ORNAMENTAL  GLASS. 

Glass  may  be  made  extremely  ornamental  by  the  following  process  : 
From  tarletan,  Swiss  or  bobbinet,  cut  out  a  number  of  pretty  designs ; 
diamonds,  circles,  stars,  rings,  leaves,  flowers,  etc. ;  which  paste  in  regu- 
lar patterns  upon  the  glass.  Next  make  a  hot  saturated  solution  of 
Glauber's  or  Epsom  salts,  with  which  wash  the  glass.  When  dry,  very 
fine  crystallization  will  be  formed.  By  a  saturated  solution  is  meant,  to 
allow  the  water  to  take  up  all  the  salt  it  will  possibly  dissolve ;  keep 
the  liquid  constantly  hot,  and  apply  with  a  brush,  not  allowing  it  to  cool 
in  the  least  a  single  moment.  Apply  with  a  brush.  Sal-ammoniac 
will  also  produce  the  same  effect  and  form  a  different  crystal.  A  beau- 
tiful effect  is  produced  by  the  three  different  kinds  of  crystals ;  dissolv- 
ing each  one  in  a  separate  vessel.  The  one  will  give  thread-Hke  crys- 
tals, like  rays  of  light  broken  into  thousands  of  fine  threads ;  the  next 
four-sided  prisms  ;  the  third  six-sided  prisms.  Glass  in  windows  thus 
ornamented  is  beautiful. 

MANTEL  ORNAMENTS. 

Select  a  crooked  twig  of  white  or  black  thorn,  wrap  loose  wool  or 
cotton  around  the  branches  and  tie  it  on  with  worsted ;  suspend  in  a 
deep  jar.  Pour  the  alum  solution  over  it  and  allow  it  to  stand  twelve 
hours.  Artificial  spars  are  made  by  suspending  in  the  solution,  by  a 
fine  silk  thread,  a  sprig  of  a  plant,  a  piece  of  rustic  wood  or  any  other 
trifle.  As  the  solution  cools,  a  crystallization  of  the  salt  takes  place, 
which  resembles  white  spars. 

For  crystallizmg  wax  flowers,  use  diamond  dust,  sprinkled  over  them  ; 
by  slightly  warming  the  flowers  the  dust  will  adhere  better.  By  placing 
the  dust  in  a  pepper-box  and  a  paper  under  the  work,  you  will  not  lose 
any,  as  it  is  very  apt  to  fly. 

FRAME  FOR  WINTER  SCENE. 

Take  an  old  frame,  cover  with  candle-wick  wound  closely  around  it, 
and  lay  it  in  alum  solution  sufficient  to  cover  the  front  of  the  frame 
entirely,  when  it  is  immersed  in  it.  Immerse  the  frame  in  this,  and 
allow  it  to  remain  in  it  until  the  wick  has  absorbed  all  the  alum  water 
it  will  take  up.  Then  remove  and  dry,  and  it  will  be  found  beautifully 
crystallized. 

Procure  a  quantity  of  raisin  stems,  bits  of  rough  bark,  small  twigs, 
etc.,  which  also  place  in  the  alum  until  crystallized.     When  all  are  dry, 


38  THE  DAIR  V. 

arrange  the  sprays  upon  the  frame  and  fasten  with  white  glue.  Allow 
some  drooping  pieces  to  fall  over  the  edges,  like  icicles ;  dry  some 
threads,  saturated  in  alum  water,  before  a  hot  fire,  which  will  appear 
like  crusted  snow  and  prove  a  beautiful  addition  when  hung  among  the 
icicles  and  sprays  of  icy  moss  and  branches.  This  frame  placed  around 
a  winter  scene,  of  any  description,  will  be  found  an  appropriate  and 
elegant  surrounding,  appearing  hke  snow  and  ice  upon  branches  and 
bark  of  trees. 


THE   DAIRY. 

CARE  OF  THE  MILK  AND  BUTTER. 

No  woman  can  make  good  butter  unless  she  is  neat  and  keeps  her  milk 
pails,  pans  and  strainer  perfectly  sweet  and  clean.  The  least  impurity 
taints  the  milk  and  cream,  and  takes  from  the  butter  its  sweetness.  Milk 
clean,  and  the  quicker  the  milking  is  done  the  more  milk  is  obtained. 
As  soon  as  a  pail  is  filled  take  it  to  the  milk-room  and  see  that  it  is 
properly  strained  through  a  wire  strainer  separate  from  the  pail,  as  jt  is 
more  easily  kept  clean.  Do  not  let  the  milk  stand  in  the  barn  or  barn- 
yards, as  milk  quickly  absorbs  any  foul  odor.  Stone  crocks  or  pans 
v^rith  flaring  sides  are  better  for  the  milk,  and  keep  it  purer  and  sweeter 
than  tin.  In  wmter,  hot  water  should  be  poured  into  them,  or  else  let 
stand  in  a  warm  place  until  they  are  thoroughly  heated. 

Skim  each  day,  if  possible,  or  at  least  do  not  let  the  milk  stand  more 
than  twenty-four  hours.  Do  not  keep  the  cream  in  the  churn,  but  in  a 
separate  crock,  until  ready  to  be  churned,  and  every  time  fresh  cream 
is  put  in,  that  in  the  crock  should  be  thoroughly  stirred,  the  new  and 
the  old  all  together.  Souring  does  not  injure  the  cream,  but  the  milk 
should  not  be  allowed  to  get  watery,  as  this  makes  the  butter  bitter  and 
flaky.  Do  not  use  a  perforated  skimmer,  but  remove  a  little  of  the 
milk  with  the  cream,  as  it  does  not  harm  the  butter  and  gives  a  more 
wholesome  and  better  buttermilk,  which  is  so  often  used  by  farmers' 
wives  in  various  sorts  of  cooking. 

If  there  is  cream  enough  each  day,  it  should  be  churned;  this 
plan  makes  the  best  butter,  although  it  takes  longer  to  churn  it.  Do 
not  let  milk  or  cream  freeze,  nor  let  the  milk  thicken  or  get  "  lobbered  " 
before  the  cream  is  taken  off.  The  cream  ought  not  to  stand  more 
tfian  two  days  before  churning,  though  in  winter  many  do  not  churn 
oftener  than  twice  a  week.  When  ready  to  churn,  scald  the  churn  and 
dash,  and  put  in  the  cream  at  a  temperature  of  sixty-two  degrees. 

When  the  butter  comes  put  a  quart  of  cold  water  in  the  churn  and 
gather  the  butter  together  with  the  dash.     Then  take  it   out  with  the 


CARE  OF  THE  MILK  AND  BUTTER.  39 

dash  into  a  wooden  bowl,  and,  with  a  wooden  ladle  and  plenty  of  cool, 
soft  water,  work  the  butter  until  the  buttermilk  is  all  worked  out  of  it. 
Do  not  work  it  too  long  as  this  injures  the  grain  of  the  butter.  If  in 
cold  weather,  and  the  butter  is  long  in  coming,  set  the  churn  in  hot 
water,  or  heat  the  churn  first  until  it  is  as  hot  as  the  hand  can  bear  it. 
Then  put  in  the  cream,  and  churn  as  steadily  as  you  can.  When  it  is 
moderate  weather,  don't  heat  the  churn  so  hot.  If  in  hot  weather,  and 
the  cream  does  not  come  readily,  set  it  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  until 
the  right  degree  is  attained.  Do  not  churn  in  the  cellar  except  in  the 
warmest  weather. 

Before  the  butter  is  taken  out  into  the  bowl  see  that  the  bowl  has 
been  thoroughly  scalded,  which  water  let  stand  in  the  bowl  five  min- 
utes before  using.  Pour  out  and  rub  both  bottom  and  sides  with  coarse 
salt,  to  prevent  the  butter  from  sticking.  Rinse  thoroughly,  and  fill 
with  cold  water  to  cool.  Use  the  best  of  dairy  salt  for  the  butter,  in 
the  proportion  of  a  half  ounce  of  salt  to  a  pound  of  butter,  if  for  table 
use ;  if  for  packing,  three-fourths  of  an  ounce  of  salt  will  not  be  more 
than  sufficient.  After  salting,  cover  with  cotton  cloth  wet  in  salt  and 
water :  set  in  the  cellar  until  morning,  when  give  it  a  second  working 
over  to  get  the  remainder  of  the  buttermilk  out,  else  the  butter  will 
become  rancid. 

If  the  butter  is  to  be  put  up  in  rolls,  dip  a  cheese  cloth  in  salt  and 
water  and  put  round  each  roll ;  if  in  jars  put  a  layer  of  salt  at  the  bot- 
tom of  each  jar ;  pack  down  the  butter  tightly  ;  put  a  layer  of  salt  on 
top ;  then  a  wet  cloth ;  then  more  salt,  and  it  will  keep  splendidly.  If 
put  in  a  crock  in  layers,  first  put  in  a  layer  of  butter — all  that  is  in  that 
churning — then  lay  a  cloth  wet  in  brine  over  it,  and  leave  it  until  ready 
to  put  in  the  next  churning ;  then  remove  the  cloth,  put  in  the  butter, 
pressing  it  down  firmly,  and  lay  the  cloth  over  it  again,  and  so  on  until 
the  jar  or  crock  is  filled.  When  the  butter  is  cut  it  will  come  out  in 
layers,  the  same  as  it  was  packed.  If  packed  in  tubs  (ash  are  the  best, 
don't  pack  in  pine,  or  it  will  taste  of  the  wood),  soak  the  tub  for  twelve 
hours  in  strong  brine,  put  a  layer  of  salt  in  the  tub  and  then  pack  in 
the  butter.  Fill  in  the  same  way  as  the  crocks  (above  described)  are 
filled,  and  finish  by  laying  over  the  butter  a  cotton  cloth  (from  which 
the  sizing  has  been  washed),  soaked  in  strong  brine ;  nail  up  the  tub 
and  set  away  until  ready  for  use. 


40  THE  DINING  ROOM. 


THE  DINING  ROOM. 

ARRANGING  THE  TABLE. 

The  neatness  and  tas^e  with  which  a  dinner  table  is  arranged  add 
greatly  to  the  comfort  of  dinner.  Excessive  display  at  a  private  dinner 
table  is  not  in  good  taste,  and  renders  the  feast  uncomfortable.  Huge 
edifices  of  plated  ware,  gigantic  bouquets,  and  lofty  sugar  castles  have 
given  way  to  dainty  bouquets  in  fragile  cut  glasses,  and  low  banks  of 
mosses  and  ferns.  One  of  the  greatest  errors  is  the  uncomfortable 
placing  of  the  straight  table.  The  general  character  of  a  dinner  must 
be  more  or  less  informal.  If  the  room  is  large  enough,  a  table  in 
horseshoe  form  should  be  used.  The  T  form  of  table  is  sometimes 
used,  and  this  can  be  improved  when  the  lower  portion  of  a  T  is 
extended  parallel  with  the  upper  portion,  like  an  H.  Guests  are  more 
at  ease,  and,  without  crowding,  everybody  is  in  proximity  with  his 
neighbor. 

All  strange  contortions  of  linen,  where  napkins  are  folded  and 
crumpled  into  plaits  and  fans,  should  be  forbidden.  These  are  only 
used  in  hotels  and  restaurants.  The  marking  of  napkins  with  large 
monograms  of  red,  or  any  color,  should  also  be  avoided.  If  any  gar- 
nishing is  attempted,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  celery,  fine  lettuce,  or 
slices  of  lemon  may  be  used.  Very  much  of  this  ornamentation  is 
considered  vulgar.  The  use  of  the  larg2  castor  is  also  dying  out.  In 
France  the  castor  is  seldom  put  on  the  table,  but  simply  a  vinegar  and 
oil  cruet. 

The  knives  and  forks  should  be  placed  at  each  plate ;  the  knife  at 
the  top  of  the  plate,  with  its  handle  towards  the  right  hand,  and  the 
fork  at  the  left-hand  side  of  the  plate  ;  the  tumbler,  napkin  and  salt  at 
the  right-hand  side.  The  plates  should  be  warmed  slightly  at  all  sea- 
sons, and  can  be  placed  either  in  a  pile  in  front  of  the  carver,  or  one  at 
each  seat,  The  latter  is  the  best  way  if  servants  are  employed  as 
waiters ;  yet  frequently,  when  no  one  but  the  family  are  present,  after 
the  glasses  are  filled  and  the  bread  handed  around,  the  service  of  the 
waiter  is  dispensed  with  until  the  course  is  to  be  removed  and  the  des- 
sert is  placed  upon  the  table. 

A  dinner  service  consists  of  a  covered  soup-tureen  and  ladle,  and 
deep  plates  for  soup,  platter  and  plates  for  fish  and  meat,  deep  covered 
dishes  for  vegetables,  a  gravy  tureen,  salad  bowl,  cheese  tray,  sauce 
boat  and  pudding  dish,  with  small  plates  for  dessert.  Some  kind  of 
salad  is  usually  placed  on  the  table  with  the  roast,  and  cheese  accom- 
panies the  dessert.  Plain  white  dishes  of  stone  or  French  china  are  in 
perfect  taste,  and,  with  a  snowy  cloth  and  nice  glassware,  they  set  a 


NATURAL  TABLE  ORNAMENTS.  41 

table  beautifully.  The  epergne  for  the  center  may  be  composed  of  two 
large  glass  fruit  stands — one  upon  the  other — filled  with  nuts  and 
apples.  On  either  side,  towards  the  ends  of  the  table,  put  well  filled 
celery  glasses,  and  disperse  about  the  table  small  dishes  of  chow-chow, 
jellies,  pickles  and  crackers. 

At  a  private  dinner  table  an  infinite  number  of  side  dishes  is  dis- 
pensed with,  as  this  disturbs  the  harmony  of  the  table.  Although  it  is 
the  common  practice  to  hand  dishes  around  and  let  each  guest  help 
himself  to  what  he  pleases,  yet  there  are  some  housewives  who  like  to 
have  everything  on  a  side  table,  and  dispense  the  side  dishes  them- 
selves. Still,  it  looks  more  hospitable  and  less  formal  to  see  the  host 
and  hostess  at  the  table  and  all  enjoying  good-time  cheer  together. 
An  ideal  hostess  is  one  who  presides  quietly  without  any  of  the  flutter 
and  nervousness  peculiar  to  some  women. 

Bread  for  the  dinner-table  should  be  cut  in  thick  squares,  by  dividing 
a  thick  slice  into  four  squares,  and  then  placed  in  the  folds  of  the  nap- 
kin. Soup  is  the  first  course.  All  should  accept  it,  even  if  they  let  it 
remain  untouched,  so  that  the  servant  will  not  serve  one  before  the  rz'^X. 
Fish  follows  soup,  which  may  be  declined  if  one  chooses,  and  after  this 
the  meats  and  side  dishes.  These  rules  are  safe  to  follow,  being  gen- 
eral ones  and  not  autocratic,  but  are  used  generally  in  different  parts  of 
the  United  States. 

Above  all,  remember :  That  the  pleasantest  dinners  are  those  where 
the  hostess  suffers  no  anxiety;  where  every  dish  is  perfection  of  its 
kind,  and  no  awkward  mistakes  are  made  by  the  attendants.  The  lat- 
ter should  be  perfectly  well  trained  in  what  they  have  to  do,  and  toler- 
ably familiar  with  the  house  and  its  appointments.  The  following  rules 
will  serve  for  the  guidance  of  inexperienced  hosts  :  Give  dinners  within 
your  means.  Do  not  make  experiments.  Either  use  the  dishes  in  which 
you  excel,  or  hire  a  good  cook  to  give  you  a  variety.  Never  apologize 
for  a  dish.  If  it  is  not  good,  keep  it  off  the  table.  Always  invite  people 
of  congenial  tastes  and  friendly  feelings.  Do  not  give  large  parties  if 
you  want  your  guests  to  enjoy  themselves.  In  the  arrangement  of  the 
table,  a  spotless  cloth,  clear  glasses  and  shining  cutlery  feast  the  sight 
before  the  substantial  meal  begins. 

NATURAL  TABLE  ORNAMENTS. 

In  these  days  of  pretty  china,  colored  glass  and  bright  silver,  table 
decoration  is  much  simplified,  but  there  is  nothing  prettier  than  flowers 
at  any  time.  Old-fashioned  bowls  of  china  are  beautiful  filled  with 
roses,  with  sprays  of  smilax  or  trailing  ferns  drooping  gracefully  over 
the  edges.  Small  low  glass  dishes,  filled  with  ferns  and  flowers,  are 
very  effective.  Pans  of  glass  or  tin,  in  shapes  so  arranged  as  to  form 
crosses,  bridges,  or  wandering  lines  of  flowers,  are  cheap  and  pretty. 


42  THE  DINING  ROOM, 

A  small  tray,  either  circular  or  oblong-,  if  filled  with  wood  moss,  nicely 
cleaned,  and  left  to  droop  well  over  the  edges,  makes  a  good  foundation 
for  table  decorations,  especially  in  town,  for,  if  the  moss  is  dampened 
thoroughly  by  sprinkling,  it  will  keep  its  color  for  weeks.  About  half 
an  inch  of  water  should  be  left  in  the  bottom  of  the  tray.  Place  in  the 
center  a  cluster  of  tall,  deep  red  roses,  for  example ;  then  place  around 
them,  so  as  just  to  show  a  rim  of  moss,  a  row  of  yellow,  then  a  row  of 
white  roses,  until  the  tray  is  filled  to  within  about  two  inches  of  the 
edge,  and  border  this  with  a  row  of  blossoms  turned  outward.  Wild 
violets  and  all  low  growing  flowers,  are  very  effective,  arranged  in  this 
way. 

Trails  of  smilax  coming  from  the  edge  of  the  tray  and  wandering 
among  the  dessert  dishes  are  very  pretty,  and  ground  ivy  is  useful  in 
the  same  way.  If  flower  pots  are  used  on  the  table,  four  of  them,  con- 
nected by  arches  of  willow,  the  cross  corners  decorated  with  ivy,  are 
light  and  pretty.  These  arches,  covered  with  any  creeping  plant,  are 
exceedingly  graceful.  Ferns  are  always  a  favorite  decoration.  Crosses 
of  four  fern  leaves  placed  down  the  sides  of  the  table,  with  a  camellia 
blossom  in  the  center  of  each,  are  very  good.  If  alternately  pink  and 
white,  the  effect  is  increased.  Banks  of  ferns,  in  which  flowers  are 
placed  as  if  they  are  growing,  arranged  in  the  center  of  the  table^ 
make  an  exceedingly  pretty  grouping. 

Baskets  edged  with  ferns  and  vines  and  filled  with  roses  make  veiy 
pretty  pieces  for  the  ends  of  the  table,  or  three  of  them,  one  built  upon 
another,  make  a  beautiful  center  piece.  A  large  sheet  of  glass,  edged 
with  grasses  and  moss,  upon  which  lie  water  lilies,  is  both  a  novel  and 
cool  decoration  for  summer,  especially  as  water  lilies  come  in  the  warm 
season.  A  high  glass  dish  filled  with  floating  lilies  and  leaves  is  also  a 
pleasing  decoration.  Where  candlesticks  are  used  small  garlands  of 
ferns  and  flowers  en  wreathing  the  standards  add  greatly  to  their  beauty, 
particularly  if  the  blue  flowers  are  used  upon  the  silver  candlesticks  and 
scarlet  on  the  brass  or  bronze.  Small  vases  with  but  a  single  flower 
and  a  few  green  leaves  or  ferns  are  all  the  flower  decoration  needed  for 
a  small  dinner  or  lunch  party. 

The  two  great  points  to  be  remembered  in  arranging  flowers  are  to 
use  enough  green  and  not  to  place  the  flowers  too  formally.  Avoid 
stiffness  and  "set  "  bouquets  ;  try  to  dispose  them  lightly  and  gracefully, 
giving  to  each  flower  its  own  leaves.  There  must,  however,  always  be 
more  green  than  is  afforded  by  the  leaves  attached  to  the  flowers  them- 
selves. Ferns  always  look  well,  and  harmonize  with  everything,  and 
when  not  attainable,  the  leaves  of  azalea  or  spir^a  are  extremely  useful. 
Common  field  grasses  can  also  be  used  with  great  advantage,  and  as  a 
background  some  pieces  of  box  will  often  be  found  extremely  useful. 
In  placing  flowers  in  troughs  it  will  be  found  very  convenient  to  use 


THE  ART  OF  CARVING.  43 

damp  sand  instead  of  water,  as  the  flowers  remain  exactly  in  the  posi- 
tion in  which  they  are  placed,  and,  as  they  do  not  lean  against  each 
other,  fewer  of  them  are  required. 

THE  ART  OF  CARVING. 

In  preparing;  meat  for  the  table,  and  in  laying  out  the  table,  reference 
ought  first  to  be  had  to  the  carving  department,  a  very  onerous  one  to 
all  and  to  some  a  very  disagreeable  one.  The  first  requisite  is  a  sharp 
knife,  and  if  to  be  used  by  a  lady,  light  and  handy,  dexterity  and 
address  in  the  manner  of  using  it  being  more  required  than  strength, 
either  in  the  knife  or  the  carver.  First  a  napkin  should  be  spread 
under  the  platter  so  that  the  edges  are  hardly  discernible,  and  yet  large 
enough  to  protect  the  cloth,  so  that  it  may  be  clean  when  the  platter  is 
removed.  The  seat  should  be  sufficiently  high  for  the  carver  to  have  a 
complete  command  over  the  joints,  and  the  dish  should  be  sufficiently 
deep  and  capacious  so  as  not  to  endanger  the  splashing  of  the  gravy. 
It  should  also  be  placed  as  near  to  the  carver  as  possible,  leaving  room 
for  his  or  her  plate.  A  knife  with  a  long  blade  is  required  for  a  large 
fleshy  joint ;  for  ham  or  bacon,  a  middling  sized,  sharp-pointed  one  is 
preferable,  and  for  poultry  or  game  a  short  knife  and  sharp-pointed  is 
the  best.     Some  like  this  knife  a  little  curved. 

As  fish  is  the  first  thing  to  be  carved  or  served,  it  has  first  place.  In 
helping  fish  take  care  not  to  break  the  flakes,  which  in  cod  and  fine, 
fresh  salmon  and  some  other  sorts,  are  large.  A  fish  trowel  is  necessary, 
not  to  say  indispensable  in  serving  many  kinds  of  fish,  particularly  the 
larger  sort. 

In  carving  salmon  cut  slices  along  the  back-bone  and  also  along  the 
flank.  The  flank  or  thin  part  is  the  best  and  richest,  and  preferred  by 
all  gourmands.  The  back  is  the  most  solid  and  thick.  The  tail  of 
salmon  is  not  so  fine  as  other  parts.  The  head  is  seldom  used.  The 
liver,  milt  and  roe  are  generally  served,  but  seldom  eaten. 

In  carving  mackerel  the  trowel  should  be  carried  under  the  meat, 
horizontally  over  the  back-bone,  so  as  to  raise  one  side  of  the  meat  from 
the  bone.  Remove  the  bone  and  serve  the  other  side  of  the  fish.  When 
fresh,  well  cleaned  and  well  done,  the  upper  end  is  considered  the  best. 

In  carving  fowls,  as  the  legs  are  always  bent  inwards  and  tucked  into 
the  belly  before  it  is  put  on  the  table,  the  skewers  by  which  they  are 
secured  ought  to  be  removed.  The  fowl  should  be  laid  on  the  carver's 
plate,  and  the  joints  as  they  are  cut  off  placed  on  the  dish.  In  taking 
off  the  wing,  the  joint  only  must  be  divided  with  the  knife,  for  by  Hfting 
up  the  pinion  of  the  wing  with  the  fork,  and  then  drawing  it  towards 
the  legs,  the  muscles  will  separate  in  a  much  better  form  than  you  can 
effect  by  cutting  with  a  knife.     Next  place  the  knife  between  the  leg 


44r  THE  DINING  ROOM. 

and  body  and  cut  to  the  bone ;  turn  the  leg  back  with  the  fork  and  the 
joint  will  give  way  if  the  fowl  be  young  and  well  done ;  the  neck  bones 
are  taken  off  by  putting  in  the  knife  and  pressing  it  under  the  long,  hard 
part  of  the  bone ;  then  lift  the  neckbone  up  and  break  it  off  from  the 
part  that  sticks  to  the  breast.  The  breast  itself  has  now  to  be  divided 
from  the  body  by  cutting  through  the  tender  ribs  close  to  the  breast 
quite  down  to  the  tail ;  then  lay  the  back  upwards,  put  the  knife  into  the 
bone  half  way  from  the  neck  to  the  rump,  and  on  raising  it  the  lower 
end  will  readily  separate.  The  first  thing  to  be  done  is  to  turn  the 
rump  from  you  and  neatly  to  take  off  the  two  sides.  Each  part  should 
be  neatly  arranged  on  the  dish,  or  served  out  as  desired  by  the  guests. 
A  turkey  should  not  be  divided  until  the  breast  is  disposed  of.  Begin 
cutting  close  to  the  breast  bone,  scooping  round  so  as  to  leave  the  mere 
pinions.  Each  slice  should  carry  with  it  a  portion  of  the  dressing  or 
force  meat,  with  which  the  craw  is  stuffed. 

Partridges  are  carved  like  fowls,  but  the  breast  and  wings  are  not 
often  divided,  the  bird  being  small.  Pigeons  may  be  cut  in  two,  either 
from  one  end  to  the  other  of  the  bird  or  across.  A  goose  or  duck 
should  be  cut  with  as  many  slices  from  the  breast  as  possible,  and 
served  with  a  portion  of  the  dressing  to  each  plate.  When  the  meat  is 
all  carved,  and  not  till  then,  cut  off  the  joints  ;  but,  observe  the  joints 
of  water  fowls  are  wide  spread  and  go  farther  back  than  those  of  land 
fowls. 

A  roast  pig  is  generally  slit  down  the  middle  in  the  kitchen,  and  the 
cook  garnishes  the  dish  with  the  jaws  and  ears.  Separate  a  shoulder 
from  the  carcass  on  one  side  and  then  do  the  same  thing  with  the  leg. 
Divide  the  ribs,  which  are  frequently  considered  the  most  choice  part, 
into  two  or  three  helpings,  presenting  an  ear  or  jaw  as  far  as  they  will 
go,  and  plenty  of  sauce.  Some  persons  prefer  the  leg  because  not  so 
rich  or  luscious  as  the  ribs.  The  neck  end,  between  the  shoulders,  is 
also  sometimes  preferred.  The  joints  may  be  divided  into  two  each,  or 
pieces  may  be  cut  from  them. 

In  car\'ing  beef,  mutton,  lamb  and  veal,  thin,  smooth  and  neat  slices 
are  desirable  ;  cut  across  the  grain,  taking  care  to  pass  the  knife  through 
to  the  bones  of  the  meat. 

A  ham  may  be  carved  in  several  ways.  First,  by  cutting  long,  deli- 
cate slices,  through  the  thick  fat,  in  the  center,  down  to  the  bone ;  or 
by  running  the  point  of  the  knife  in  the  circle  of  the  middle  and  cutting 
thin,  circular  slices,  thus  keeping  the  ham  moist,  and  last  and  most 
economically,  by  beginning  at  the  knuckle  and  slicing  upward. 

A  tongue  should  be  carved  as  thin  as  a  wafer,  its  delicacy  depending 
a  great  deal  on  this,  and  a  well  cut  tongue  will  tempt  the  most  fastidi- 
ous.    A  beef's  heart  should  also  be  cut  in  the  same  wav. 


CHRISTMAS  AND  NEW  YEAR'S  DINNERS.  45 

BREAKFAST  PARTIES. 

These  are  becoming  fashionable,  because  less  formal  and  not  so 
expensive  as  dinners.  The  courses  are  served  exactly  the  same  as 
dinners,  only  there  is  a  feeling  of  freedom  and  jollity  foreign  to  the 
care  and  responsibility  of  dinner  giving,  enjoyed  both  by  the  guests  and 
hostess. 

Oat  meal  porridge  and  cream  is  the  first  course,  and  if  well  cooked  is 
a  palatable  and  agreeable  dish.  Oranges,  melons  and  fruits  are  brought 
on  after  the  porridge.  The  coffee  is  set  before  the  mistress,  with  cups 
in  their  saucers,  in  front  of  it  in  one  or  two  rows.  Here  is  an  oppor- 
tunity for  using  the  d'elicate  china  cups  and  saucers,  quaint  coffee-pot 
and  its  attendant  service. 

The  meat  with  plates  is  set  before  the  host,  flanked  with  potatoes, 
crisp  and  brown,  and  eggs  served  as  omelettes  or  in  other  ways.  For 
an  ordinary  table  one  castor  is  sufficient  and  this  should  be  a  low  one. 
The  course  of  meat  and  vegetables  is  then  followed  by  hot  fried  mush 
and  cakes,  and  then  the  coffee.  Honey  or  maple  syrup  for  the  cakes  or 
mush  is  served  in  small  dishes.  Butter  is  served  in  small  pots  with  a 
lump  of  ice.  Hot  biscuits,  buns  or  waffles  are  delicious  with  the  coffee 
and  are  often  served  with  it. 

The  table  Hnen  may  be  white,  with  scarlet  border,  with  a  scarlet  and 
white  napkin  under  each  plate.  Very  little  silver  is  used  at  breakfast 
parties  as  it  is  too  cold  looking  for  a  cheerful  breakfast  table,  but  instead 
bring  on  the  odd  china,  colored  glass,  and  anything  and  everything  that 
will  give  an  air  of  brightness  to  this  morning  feast. 

CHRISTMAS   AND   NEW  YEAR'S   DINNERS. 

At  the  holiday  season  nearly  all  like  their  tables  arranged  with  more 
elaboration  than  at  any  other  time,  especially  if  there  are  children  in 
the  family.  To  please  them — and  the  grown  people  too — in  place  of 
gas  use  wax  candles,  and  if  you  have  old-fashioned  candlesticks  or  can- 
delabras,  so  much  the  better.  These  candles  give  a  soft,  mellow  light, 
pleasing  to  the  eye,  and  also  a  better  effect  to  the  decorations.  In  addition 
to  the  plants  and  flowers  mentioned  above,  ferns  and  autumn  leaves 
may  be  added  ;  also  holly  leaves,  placed  in  borders  around  the  dishes 
and  plates,  and  colored  candies,  sweets  and  crystallized  bon-bons  and 
fruits  can  be  strewn  around  in  small  baskets  with  great  success.  Foun- 
dations of  stout  white  paper,  covered  over  with  soft  fluffy  cotton, 
frosted  over  with  alum  crystals,  make  a  very  pretty  foundation  for  high 
dessert  dishes  or  epergnes.  Deep  glass  dishes  and  baskets  with  handles, 
wreathed  over  with  ferns  or  trails  of  plants,  can  be  filled  with  nuts, 
candies  and  raisins,  and  sunk  into  beds  of  moss. 

The  long,  unbroken  bars  of  candy-sugar  look  well  in  quadrangle 


46  .  THE  DINING  ROOM. 

piles  of  alternate  white,  red  and  yellow.  Slender  glasses  or  vase  pots, 
with  plants  and  feathery  grasses,  can  be  inserted'  into  these  piles.  The 
ends  of  the  bars  should  be  allowed  to  advance  well  at  the  corners,  the 
same  way  as  building-wood  is  stored.  Fine-pointed  sticks,  with  crys- 
tallized fruits  run  on  them,  or  simply  figs  or  French  plums,  can  be  piled 
^n  the  same  manner.  Handsome  bunches  of  fresh  or  dried  dessert 
grapes  or  raisins  can  be  suspended  on  rustic  gypsy  sticks,  either  in  the 
center  or  at  the  ends  of  long  tables.  Christmas  and  New  Year's  cards 
laid  into  the  napkin  are  also  a  welcome  surprise  to  the  guests  upon 
opening  them.  When  flowers  are  not  readily  obtained  and  a  large 
center-piece  is  deemed  necessary,  it  can  be  made  by  setting  one  tall  dish 
within  another,  and  covering  the  erection  with  a  vase  filled  with  ferns 
and  Christmas  holly,  witli  its  red  berries.  Then  fill  the  dishes  with 
oranges,  red  apples,  white  grapes,  raisins,  bananas,  and  anything  eke 
that  is  obtainable  and  that  will  add  to  the  beauty  of  the  structure. 
Mottoes,  lady-fingers  and  showy  little  fancy  cakes  can  be  used  to  fill 
up  the  interstices.  These  home-made  center  pieces  are  often  prettier 
than  anything  that  can  be  procured  at  the  confectioner's. 

NEW  YEAR'S  RECEPTION   LUNCHES. 

The  mode  of  setting  the  table  and  decorating  is  a  little  different  from 
that  intended  for  a  dinner  party.  A  snow-white  cloth  of  the  finest  dam- 
ask, beautiful  china,  glistening  cut  glass  and  pohshed  plate  are  essential 
to  these  reception  lunches.  Choice  flowers,  ferns  and  mosses,  tastefully 
arranged,  add  much  to  the  beauty  of  the  table.  Napkins  should  be 
folded  square  and  placed  with  a  roll  of  bread  on  each  plate.  The  des- 
sert is  placed  on  the  table  amidst  the  flowers,  the  natural  fruit  garnished 
with  green  leaves,  and  the  crystallized  in  tiny-fluted  and  lace-bordered, 
white  paper  shells,  piled  on  their  respective  dishes  An  epergne  or  low 
dish  of  flowers  graces  the  center  ;  stands  of  bon-bons  and  confectionery 
are  ranged  on  both  sides  of  the  table  with  a  comfit-dish  of  nuts  and 
raisins  at  each  end.     These  complete  the  necessary  decorations. 

High  standards  are  now  replaced  by  low  dishes  of  majolica,  crys- 
tal, iridescent  glass  or  silver,  filled  with  fruit  or  flowers.  Tall  dishes 
only  serve  to  hide  the  faces  around  the  table.  Small  bouquets  can  be 
l)laced  at  each  plate,  and  the  new  Dresden  china  and  majolica  ware,  in 
its  various  and  unique  designs,  are  very  beautiful  filled  with  ferns  and 
flowers,  and  trailing  vines  falling  over  the  edges.  These  can  be  scat- 
icred  about,  according  to  the  taste  of  the  one  who  arranges  the  table, 
with  here  a  figure  of  a  girl  holding  a  basket  of  flowers ;  there  a  youth 
guiding  a  wheelbarrow  laden  with  mosses  and  ferns,  and  here  and  there 
a  tiny  rose-bud  in  its  nest  of  green,  dotting  the  snowy  cloth  with  bright 
coloring.  The  various-shaped  glasses,  decorated  china,  and  many-hued 
wares  enliven  and  add  much  to  the  beauty  of  the  table  decorations. 


DISH  WASHING.  47 

Cold  game  and  poultry,  lettuce,  celery  and  lobster  salad,  tongue,  ham, 
potted  meats,  dressed  chicken,  pies,  jellies,  ices,  cakes  and  fruit  are 
served  in  many  ways.  Some  of  the  most  charming  lunches  given  are 
those  the  least  expensive.  Where  everything  is  good  in  quality,  and 
the  dishes  are  well  dressed,  and  the  guests  congenial,  a  degree  of  suc- 
cess will  be  insured  that  will  be  pleasant  to  both  guests  and  hostess. 


DISH  WASHING. 


UTENSILS  AND  METHODS. 


In  the  first  place,  be  provided  with  a  mop  made  of  coarse  crotchet 
cotton,  tied  or  crotcheted  in  tassel-like  form  around  a  handle,  which 
should  have  a  neatly  turned  knob  at  the  end  for  this  purpose.  The  mop 
will  enable  you  to  use  the  hot  soap-suds,  which  is  indispensable  for 
making  glass  and  silver  sparkle  and  shine  as  they  should  do  when  prop- 
erly kept. 

The  best  pan  for  washing-up  purposes  is  of  tin,  made  in  oval  form 
with  a  partition  in  the  middle,  and  a  very  small  tray  inserted  at  one  end 
for  holding  the  piece  of  hard  soap  that  will  be  needed  from  day  to 
day,  arid  thus  saved  from  being  wasted.  The  pan  should  be  large 
enough  to  hold  two  gallons  of  water  at  least  in  each  division.  Half 
fill  one  side  of  the  pan  with  nice  hot  soap-suds,  and  the  other  side  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  clear,  hot  water  for  rinsing  purposes.  Wipe  china 
and  glass  immediately  from  the  pan,  one  piece  at  a  time,  with  a  dry 
towel.  The  provision  of  at  least  three  clean  linen  crash  towels  should 
be  made  for  the  washing-up  of  a  medium-sized  family  for  a  single 
time,  and  one  of  very  strong,  stout  linen  for  the  wiping  of  knives,  and 
then  the  equipment  will  be  complete. 

Each  household  should  be  provided  with  at  least  twelve  tea  towels 
and  six  knife  towels,  and  arrangements  made  for  having  them  as  regu- 
larly laundried  as  any  other  articles  of  household  use. 

Then  it  is  important  that  the  things  be  taken  in  proper  order.  First, 
the  glasses,  taking  care  to  hold  them  obliquely,  and  not  let  the  heat  of 
the  water  strike  them  too  suddenly ;  also,  in  summer  time,  see  to  it  that 
all  ice  and  ice  water  are  emptied  from  them  some  little  time  before 
commencing.  Secondly,  wash  all  the  silver  and  plated  ware  save  the 
forks,  rubbing  them  hard,  each  article  separately,  as  you  take  them 
directly  from  the  hot  rinsing  water.  A  piece  of  chamois  skin  should  be 
at  hand  for  further  burnishing ;  silver  thus  attended  to  daily  seldom 
needing  a  special  day  of  rubbing  and  cleaning.  If  spoons  have  been 
discolored  by  ^gg  or  mustard,  rub  them  over  with  a  paste  of  Spanish 
whiting  and  water  mixed  smoothly ;  let  it  dry  upon  them  and  then  rub 


48  DUSTERS. 

off  with  a  dry  flannel  cloth.  Thirdly,  wash  the  cups  and  saucers,  the 
pitchers  and  every  article  which  has  not  come  in  contact  with  grease  ; 
then  the  plates  and  dishes,  renewing  your  soap-suds  if  needful,  and 
lastly,  the  knives,  taking  the  greatest  care,  if  they  have  ivory  handles, 
not  to  let  them  be  submerged  or  even  touched  by  hot  water.  Ordinarily 
when  put  off  to  the  last,  the  water  will  be  no  more  than  lukewarm  when 
you  get  to  them,  but  be  very  sure  to  ascertain  the  fact  if  you  would 
preserve  your  cutlery  for  any  length  of  time. 


DUSTEES. 


HOME-MADE  FEATHER  ONES. 


The  feathers  of  the  common  barn  yard  fowls  can  be  used  for  this  pur- 
pose and  made  into  handsome  brushes  with  little  trouble  and  expense. 
Separate  the  various  kinds,  reserving  the  prettiest  for  the  outside ;  then 
put  them  into  tin  pans  and  place  them  in  a  moderately  heated  oven  to 
become  seasoned,  but  not  baked.  After  this  is  accompHshed  take  a 
light  hammer  and  flatten  each  quill. 

If  any  old  feather  duster  handles  are  to  be  found,  you  have  a  treasure ; 
if  not  so  fortunate  you  can  easily  improvise  a  handle  from  the  rounds 
of  old  chairs,  or  an  old  broom  handle  ebonized  or  stained  will  answer 
every  purpose.  Have  a  quantity  of  glue  prepared,  and  keep  the  water 
surrounding  it  constantly  boiling  hot.  With  a  sharp  knife  or  saw,  notch 
out  a  series  of  grooves  in  the  lower  part  of  the  handle,  about  an  inch 
apart,  and  with  a  ball  of  smooth  hemp  twine,  proceed  to  tie  on  the 
feathers.  Taking  the  handle  in  the  left  hand,  dip  the  end  into  the  gluci 
and  quickly  arrange  a  number  of  the  smaller  and  softer  feathers  around 
the  flat  part,  above  the  first  groove,  saturating  the  twine  with  glue ; 
draw  it  twice  around  in  the  groove  and  over  the  feathers,  having  pre- 
viously made  a  knot  in  the  end,  and  fastening  with  a  strong  tack  in  the 
very  end  of  the  handle.  Keep  adding  rows  of  feathers  and  fastening 
with  twine,  applying  hot  glue  to  each  part  until  the  entire  is  covered. 
Then  taking  the  long  feathers,  carefully  bend  them  until  they  form  a 
border,  gracefully  curved  outward,  as  in  the  regular  dusters.  Finally, 
with  a  brush,  apply  hot  glue  until  all  the  interstices  are  filled,  then  wind 
with  twine  until  quite  uniform.  While  wet,  cover  quickly  with  plaster 
of  pahs,  using  a  spoon  to  fill  in  among  the  quills.  Let  it  become  per- 
fectly dry,  when  the  feathers  will  be  found  perfectly  secure,  forming  a 
solid  mass  around  the  handle. 

Now,  measure  the  size  of  the  brush,  cut  out  a  piece  of  leather  (colored) 
or  oilcloth  large  enough  to  cover  it,  and  glue  the  edges  neatly  together, 
first  pinking  out  the  lower  part.    When  dry  slip  this  band  over  the  glued 


EASTER  EGGS,  49 

part  of  the  feathers,  and  with  small  gilt-headed  tacks  nail  a  band   of 
galoon,  ribbon  or  cloth,  pinked  on  both  edges,  over  the  upper  part. 

Thus  finished  the  home-made  brush  is  as  neat  and  pretty,  and  certainly 
as  durable,  as  the  high-priced  ones  sold  in  the  stores. 


EASTER   EGGS. 

MOTTOES  AND  DECORATIONS. 

If  mottoes  are  to  be  inscribed  upon  Easter  eggs,  let  us  provide  our- 
selves with  the  sharpened  end  of  a  white  wax  or  adamantine  candle. 
Having  first  submerged  the  eggs  in  hot  water,  write  on  them  with  the 
candle  end  such  words  or  draw  such  figures  as  you  fancy.  The  wax 
or  oil  will  serve  the  same  purpose  as  what  is  termed  a  resist  in  the  pro- 
cess of  printing  calicoes,  and  prevent  the  dye  from  adhering. 

Now,  as  we  shall  like  our  eggs  of  various  colors,  we  begin  with  red  : 
For  this  purpose,  Brazil  wood  and  also  cochineal  are  used,  either  dye 
to  be  set  with  a  little  alum  ;  boil  in  a  tin  vessel.  Have  the  dye-stuffs 
well  dissolved  and  strained  from  impurities  before  immersing  the  eggs, 
and  then,  if  you  keep  them  stirring  all  the  while,  they  will  be  painted 
over  evenly. 

If  you  want  speckled  eggs,  dot  about  with  white  wax  or  oil,  as  you 
did  for  your  mottoes,  and  the  desired  effect  will  be  produced.  A  neater 
way  though,  of  engraving  eggs  is  to  dye  them  first  whatever  color  you 
wish,  and  then  with  a  penknife  scrape  upon  them  any  device  that 
occurs  to  you,  leaving  thus  a  tracery  of  white  upon  a  colored  ground. 
Logwood  chips  will  produce  a  dark  purple  dye,  to  be  set  with  a  small 
bit  of  copperas. 

A  good  yellow  may  be  got  by  boiling  the  eggs  in  onion  skins,  steeped  in 
hot  water,  or  by  taking  two  parts  of  black  oak  bark,  and  one  part  of 
hickory  and  boiling  in  water,  with  a  lump  of  alum  for  the  mordant.  Or, 
if  you  wish  some  eggs  yellow,  and  some  green,  first  dye  your  eggs  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water  colored  with  turmeric  tied  up  in  a  little  muslin  bag,  and 
when  you  have  dyed  as  many  in  that  way  as  you  wish,  stir  into  it  enough 
of  druggist's  blue  indigo  to  produce  the  desired  shade  of  green.  Some 
children  are  satisfied  with  simply  boiling  their  eggs  with  grass  to  color 
them  green,  and  Scotch  brown  blossoms  to  dye  them  yellow. 

The  aniline  dyes  are  very  good  for  this  purpose  and  yield  fine  results 
with  little  labor.  They  are  soluble  either  in  water  or  alcohol,  and 
impart  their  brilliant  hues  when  applied  cold.  A  few  cents'  worth  will 
color  as  many  as  you  wish. 

A  pretty  way  to  arrange  these  for  the  table  is  to  put  them  in  small 
fancy  baskets,  among  mosses  and  ferns,  autumn  leaves  or  grasses. 
4 


50  EMBROIDERY. 

There  can  be  a  deal  of  taste  shown  in  the  arrangement  of  these,  and 
they  make  a  very  pretty  table  ornament.  The  scrapbook  pictures  are 
very  pretty  for  this  purpose,  and  should  be  pasted  on  with  the  v^hite  of 
an  ^gg.  Tiny  flowers  and  figures  are  best  for  this  purpose,  and  one 
sheet  will  decorate  quite  a  number. 

Rustic  work  of  twigs  and  mosses,  arranged  on  the  table  in  the  form 
of  a  bird's  nest,  filled  with  the  variously  colored  eggs,  and  supported 
on  boughs  of  rustic  twigs  covered  with  green  or  gray  wood  moss,  or 
the  silvery  gray  Southern  moss,  is  an  odd  conceit,  and  also  a  very  charm- 
ing one.  Above  the  nest  may  be  perched  a  stuffed  bird,  either  of  large 
or  small  species,  according  to  the  size  of  nest,  which  addition  adds 
greatly  to  the  general  effect. 

An  old  German  custom,  and  one  that  is  now  being  followed  by  the 
Americans,  is  that  of  making  Easter  cakes  and  sending  them  around 
to  intimate  friends,  with  the  compliments  of  the  giver.  A  late  Ameri- 
can fashion  is  to  send  out  illuminated  or  water- colored  cards  to  inti- 
mate friends,  with  the  name  ascribed  thereon,  and  sometimes  a  motto 
is  added. 

In  Norway  and  Sweden  the  salutation  on  Easter  morning  is  "  Christ 
has  risen."     "  He  has  risen  indeed,"  is  the  response. 


EMBROIDERY. 

APPLIQUE  WORK. 

It  is  necessary  in  the  first  place  to  purchase  a  complete  set  of  stamp- 
ing tools  to  secure  accuracy  of  outline  in  patterns,  stars,  circles  or 
diamonds,  but  the  patterns  are  procurable  in  all  varieties  already 
stamped  out  of  velvet  cloth,  satin  or  silk.  When  you  have  selected 
your  pattern  baste  it  carefully  down  upon  the  material  for  your  back- 
ground, always  having  either  fabric  or  color  in  contrast.  Velvet  on 
cloth,  silk  on  velvet,  cloth  on  silk — any  combination  most  effective  to 
the  worker's  eye — can  be  used.  When  carefully  basted  down,  work 
the  edge  carefully  in  satin  stitch,  or  run  on  a  cord  or  braid,  carefully 
covering  the  edge  of  the  applique  on  both  sides.  Satin,  coral  knots 
and  chain-stitches  are  much  used.  To  make  a  butterfly,  cut  it  out  of 
yellow  flannel  or  velvet,  and  baste  it  on  whatever  you  intend  to  make ; 
buttonhole  the  edge  down  with  black  silk;  shade  the  wings  with 
black,  in  satin  stitch.  For  the  dots  on  wings  cut  a  piece  of  dark  blue 
velvet,  and  buttonhole  around  with  black  silk ;  shade  the  body  same  as 
the  wings.  Flowers,  leaves,  and  a  great  many  other  things  can  be 
made  in  the  same  way. 

Fruit,  designs  in  all  its  varieties,  is  very  much  employed  for  applique 
work  in  the  decoration  of  chair  backs,  fireplace  curtains,  brackets,  pan- 


CREWEL  STITCH.  5i 

els,  etc.  For  example,  in  the  center  scallop  of  a  small  black  satin  bracket 
droops  a  cluster  of  pears,  whilst  on  the  smaller  side  ones  appears  a  pome- 
granate. A  handsome  black  curtain  band  exhibits  diagonal  divisions, 
separated  by  groups  of  four  lines  in  gold  filoselle,  inclosing  a  never  end- 
ing scroll  wrought  in  greenish-yellow.  The  large  spaces  are  filled  in  by 
pine-appies,  and  from  their  embroidered  stalks  hang  bunches  of  purple 
grapes.  Both  kinds  of  fruit  are  inlaid  in  silk  or  cloth,  gummed  on  and 
worked  over  with  filoselle,  which  indicates  the  facetted  surface  of  the 
pine-apple  and  the  bloom  of  the  grapes,  at  the  same  time  faintly  out- 
lining them.  On  a  cushion,  also  in  black  satin,  is  delineated  a  vine,. 
with  branches,  leaves  and  ripe  fruit  overhanging  a  stream,  simulated 
by  a  few  stitches  in  white  and  blue ;  a  wild  duck  embroidered  in  bright 
tints  animates  the  scene.  The  same  purple  grapes  alternate  on  a  pale 
blue  valance,  with  bunches  of  shaded  cherries.  Another  pecuhar  val- 
ance, reproduced  on  gray  cloth,  has  Egyptian  heads  in  clay-brown  color. 
Oranges,  apples,  and  peaches  in  their  various  stages  of  ripeness,  com- 
pose bouquets  for  the  centers  of  ottomans,  piano  stools,  antimacassars, 
etc.  In  this  case  the  corners  are  generally  rounded  by  a  fan  of  ruby 
network  in  the  whole  twelve  strands  of  the  filoselle,  caught  down  with 
cross  stitches  of  gold  silk.  Between  each  fan  spreads  a  smaller  curve. 
A  very  nice  way  for  a  table  bordering  in  applique  is  to  take  a  piece 
of  fine  black  cloth  the  length  required ;  cut  circles  on  paper  the  size  of 
a  silver  dollar ;  with  a  piece  the  size  of  a  silver  ten-cent  piece  cut  out 
the  center ;  cut  circles  in  colored  llama  cloth  large  enough  to  cover  the 
paper  ones ;  these  are  to  be  tacked  down  to  the  cloth  with  a  piece  of 
military  braid,  threaded  through  the  circles ;  they  are  then  sewn  on 
each  edge  to  the  cloth  in  buttonhole  stitch  with  gold-colored  embroi- 
dery silk ;  gold  beads  are  then  sewn  on  the  edge  of  circles  and  braid. 
The  colored  rings  are  to  be  put  on  in  the  following  order :  Drab,  crim- 
son, blue,  yellow,  violet,  green,  pink,  drab,  crimson,  and  so  on  in  regu- 
lar succession  again.  This  makes  a  very  handsome  bordering  for  a 
table  or  mantelpiece,  and  the  color  of  the  material  and  rings  may  be 
varied  to  suit  the  taste  of  the  worker. 

CREWEL  STITCH. 

Cut  the  skeins  of  crewel  twice  and  put  them  in  thread  papers.  Begin 
with  the  stalk  of  your  design  ;  work  in  cord  stitch  (as  in  French  em- 
broidery), working  toward  the  right  and  left.  Wherever  it  is  practica- 
ble, work  in  curved  lines.  When  you  have  reached  the  top  of  your 
work,  turn  it  around  and  work  towards  the  bottom,  then  again  upwards 
so  as  always  to  work  from  you. 

If  you  begin  with  the  central  vein  of  a  leaf  continue  to  work  from  the 
center  to  the  edge.     Never  work  between  two  Hnes  of  stitches,  so  as  to 


52  EMBROIDER  V. 

fill  up,  as  it  were,  between  work,  as  this   plan   will   entirely   spoil   the 
effect  of  the  stitch. 

In  a  jasmine  you  have  two  stitches,  the  cording  stitch  and  the  knot 
stitch,  which  forms  the  center  of  the  open  flowers. 

To  make  a  knot  stitch,  your  needle  and  crewel  must  be  pulled 
through  to  the  front  of  the  work,  exactly  where  you  desire  the  knot  to 
•be.  Hold  the  crewel  down  with  the  thumb  of  the  left  hand,  and  twist 
the  needle  twice  or  thrice,  according  to  the  size  of  the  knot  required, 
through  the  part  of  the  crewel  which  is  tightened  by  the  left  thumb. 
Continue  to  hold  the  crewel  with  the  left  thumb,  and  turn  the  needle 
quite  round  towards  the  left  with  your  right  hand.  Insert  it  the  dis- 
tance from  the  place  it  was  brought  up.  Continue  to  hold  the  crewel 
with  the  left  thumb  until  you  have  drawn  the  knot  to  its  proper  degree 
of  tightness. 
•     Cording  stitch  and  satin  stitch  are  much  employed  in  working  buds. 

KENSINGTON  STITCH. 

This  is  as  nearly  as  possible  no  definite  stitch  at  all,  but  much  like 
drawing  done  on  cloth  with  needle  and  thread,  a  single  thread  stroke, 
or  "  stitch,"  representing  each  pencil  stroke,  however  long  or  short, 
only  that  curves,  of  course,  can  only  be  done  by  a  succession  of  short 
strokes  of  the  thread.  The  stitches  are  mostly  made  in  the  "back- 
stitch "  manner,  and  are  regulated  by  no  rules  whatever,  either  as  to 
length  or  direction,  but  by  the  eye  alone,  the  object  being  to  produce 
the  effect  of  the  design  in  the  quickest  way.  It  is  done  with  embroi- 
dered silks  or  worsteds  on  articles  not  intended  ever  to  be  washed  ;  can 
be  made  very  effective  and  is  not  at  all  tedious.  Any  one  able  to  use  a 
needle  and  thread  at  all  knows  all  the  mechanical  manipulation  neces- 
sary ;  but  in  order  to  produce  the  beautiful  designs  given  in  the  fashion 
or  ladies'  magazines  for  borders,  etc.,  worked  in  this  stitch,  you  must 
be  able  to  copy  the  pattern  by  your  eye  alone,  as  in  drawing. 

The  very  useful  and  widely  adaptable  embroidery  stitch  now  called 
"  Kensington  outline,"  is  different  from  the  above,  being  produced  by 
a  succession  of  stitches  all  exactly  alike.  It  is  the  best  of  all  stitches 
for  the  preity  outhne  designs,  resembling  etchings,  now  so  fashionable 
for  working  with  colored  marking-cotton  on  handkerchiefs,  table  nap- 
kins, and  many  other  articles  destined  to  form  an  intimate  acquaintance 
with  the  washtub.  These  designs  have  no  filling  in,  all  that  is  worked 
being  the  outlines  together  with  such  lines  as,  in  a  pen  and  ink  draw- 
ing, would  be  put  in  to  mark  the  folds  of  drapery  and  so  forth.  And 
one  can  copy  a  little  outline  picture  on  the  white  goods  where  it  is  to  be 
worked,  by  placing  the  goods  over  the  picture  (holding  against  the 
window-pane,  if  necessary)  and  marking  the  Hnes  with  a  lead  pencil ; 
then  all  you  have  to  do  is  to  follow  the  pencil  marks  with  your  Ken- 


SILK  EMBROIDER  Y.  53 

sington  outline.  A  line  of  this  stitching  looks  on  the  right  side  like  a 
small,  twisted  cord,  and  on  the  wrong  side  appears  as  a  row  of  ordi- 
nary plain  hand-stitching.  By  this  description,  many  ladies  will  recog- 
nize Kensington  outline  stitch  as  only  a  new  name  for  their  old  friend 
"stem"  or  "cord"  stitch. 

MORESQUE  APPLIQUE. 

This  is  a  beautiful  style  of  fancy  work.  It  is  very  rich  and  striking, 
yet  has  a  delicacy  that  renders  it  only  proper  for  dressy,  light  articles, 
such  as  fans,  cravat  ends  and  similar  objects.  To  make  it,  take  a  foun- 
dation on  any  plain  shade  of  silk,  upon  which  trace  a  design.  Gold 
thread  is  then  laid  over  the  design,  which  usually  resembles  a  lace  pat- 
tern. Work  over  the  gold  thread  in  rather  far  apart  button-hole  stitch, 
with  different  colored  embroidery  silks.  After  the  work  is  accom- 
plished, the  superfluous  silk  is  cut  away  between  the  design  with  sharp 
scissors,  as  it  used  to  be  done  in  the  lattice-work  embroidered  collars, 
once  such  fashionable  fancy  work.  Care  must  be  taken  to  have  loops 
or  lattice  of  gold  thread  connecting  the  leaves,  etc.,  of  the  design  so  as 
not  to  lose  any  portion  when  trimming  out.  Also  leave  loops  of  gold 
thread  around  the  outer  edge  to  form  a  pearl.  This  work,  which  looks 
like  "  applique,"  is  made  in  shapes  to  fit  the  outside  sticks  of  a  fan  and 
glued  on,  or  an  edge  is  applied  to  the  silk  or  satin  tops,  or,  in  any  way 
the  fancy  may  suggest  as  being  appropriate  for  this  really  elegant 
work, 

SILK  EMBROIDERY. 

Embroidery  after  nature,  or  "  painting  in  wools,"  consists  in  working 
flowers  in  their  natural  forms  and  colors,  and  can  only  be  done  by  per- 
sons who  have  a  knowledge  of  painting.  First,  the  flower  must  be 
drawn  boldly  on  the  piece  of  coarse,  unbleached  linen.  The  margin  of 
the  petal  is  worked  in  long,  close  stitches,  making  a  firm,  thick  edge 
half  an  inch  deep,  the  threads  lying  in  the  direction  of  the  veins  of  the 
petals.  Other  shades  are  then  worked  in  to  fill  up  the  petal,  in  long, 
unequal  stitches,  care  being  taken  to  bring  the  needle  up  in  the  middle 
of  the  threads  forming  the  margin,  so  as  to  blend  the  work  and  make 
all  smooth.  Both  in  leaves  and  flowers  it  is  necessary  to  place  the 
stitches  in  the  direction  of  the  veining.  When  the  flower  is  worked, 
veins  in  a  darker  shade  can  be  added,  if  the  nature  of  the  bloom 
requires  them,  or  spots  of  any  size  or  shade.  Middles  are  worked  in 
the  knotting  stitch  thus :  Wind  the  silk  twice  around  the  needle  and 
push  it  down  in  exactly  the  spot  where  it  was  pushed  up ;  let  the  silk  be 
drawn  through  slowly,  being  careful  it  does  not  tangle,  and  the  twist 
around  the  needle  will  form  the  knot.  If  great  care  is  taken  not  to  draw 
the  hand  tight  in  the  working  no  anxiety  need  be  felt  as  to  the  apparent 


54  ENTERTAINMENTS. 

pucksring.  When  the  work  is  finished  it  must  be  stretched,  face  down- 
ward, on  a  board  and  strongly  starched  at  the  back,  then,  dried  quickly 
and  removed,  when  the  effect  will  satisfy  the  most  fastidious  judge  ;  the 
flowers  stand  up  from  the  ground,  which  is  now  quiet  flat,  and  really 
seem  as  if  they  could  be  taken  up.  Those  who  do  this  work  become 
fascinated  by  it,  and  it  is  quickly  done  as  well  as  being  so  effective. 
Sometimes  a  groundwork  is  added  of  feather  stitch  in  black  machine 
silk.  This  has  the  effect  of  a  tracery  background,  neither  heightening 
the  effect  of  the  flowers  nor  detracting  from  it,  but  disguising  the  rough- 
ness of  the  material  and  preventing  its  soiling  so  quickly. 


ENTERTAIISTMENTS. 


ANNIVERSARY  WEDDINGS. 


The  first  is  the  paper  wedding,  which  takes  place  one  year  after  mar- 
riage. The  invitations  should  be  issued  on  a  gray  paper,  representing 
thin  card-board.  The  presents,  if  given,  should  be  solely  of  articles 
made  of  paper. 

The  wooden  wedding  is  the  fifth  anniversary  of  the  marriage.  The 
invitations  should  be  on  thin  cards  of  wood,  or  they  may  be  written  on 
a  sheet  of  wedding  note-paper,  and  a  card  of  wood  (plain  or  painted  in 
some  pretty  design)  inclosed  in  the  envelope.  The  presents  on  this 
occasion  may  range  from  a  wooden  spoon  to  a  complete  set  of  parlor 
or  chamber  furniture. 

The  tenth  anniversary  of  the  marriage  is  called  the  tin  wedding. 
The  invitations  may  be  made  upon  cards  covered  with  tin-foil,  or 
printed  upon  heavy  silver  card-board.  The  guests  have  the  whole  list 
of  articles  manufactured  by  tinners'  art,  to  select  from  here. 

Next  is  the  crystal  wedding,  on  the  fifteenth  anniversary.  Invitations 
may  be  made  on  thin,  transparent  paper,  or  colored  sheets  of  prepared 
gelatine,  or  on  ordinary  wedding  note-paper,  inclosing  a  sheet  of  mica. 
The  guests  will  make  offerings  to  their  host  and  hostess  of  trifles  of 
glass,  which  may  be  more  or  less  valuable,  as  the  donor  is  inclined. 

The  china  wedding  occurs  on  the  twentieth  anniversary.  Invitations 
should  be  issued  on  exceedingly  fine,  semi-transparent  note-paper  or 
cards.  Various  articles  for  the  dining  or  tea-table,  for  the  toilet-stand, 
vases  or  mantel  ornaments,  are  all  appropriate  for  this  occasion. 

The  silver  wedding  occurs  on  the  twenty-fifth  marriage  anniversary. 
The  invitations  issued  should  be  upon  the  finest  note-paper,  printed  in 
l)right  silver,  with  monogram  or  crest  upon  both  paper  and  envelope,  in 
silver  also.     All  presents  should  be  of  silver. 

The  close  of  the  fiftieth  year  of  married  life  brings  around  the  appro- 


COFFEE  OR  TEA  PARTJES.  55 

priate  time  for  the  golden  wedding.  The  invitations  for  this  golden  cele- 
bration should  be  printed  on  the  finest  note-paper  in  gold,  with  crest  on 
monogram  on  both  paper  and  envelope  in  highly  burnished  gold.  The 
presents  offered  are  also  in  gold. 

Few,  indeed,  may  celebrate  their  diamond  wedding.  This  should  be 
held  on  the  seventy-fifth  anniversary  of  the  wedding  day. 

It  is  not  required  that  all  guests  at  such  weddings  should  donate 
gifts.  The  donors  on  such  occasions  are  usually  only  members  of  the 
family  or  intimate  friends.  The  invitations  vary  somewhat  in  their 
wording,  according  to  the  fancy  of  the  writer,  but  they  all  are  similar. 
They  should  give  the  date  of  the  marriage  and  the  anniversary.  They 
may  or  may  not  give  the  name  of  the  husband  at  the  right-hand  side 
and  the  maiden  name  of  the  wife  at  the  left.  What  the  anniversary  is 
should  also  be  indicated. 

The  following  form  will  serve  as  a  model : 

1849— 1874, 

The  pleasure  of  your  company  is  requested  at  the  Silver  Wedding  Reception  of 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  Austin, 

On  Thursday  evening,  November  13,  at  9  o'clock. 

R.  S.  V.  P.  909  Arch  street. 

A  variation  of  the  dates  and  the  insertion,  in  the  place  of  the  word 
"silver,"  of  "paper,"  "wooden,"  "tin,"  "crystal,"  "china,"  "golden," 
or  "diamond,"  will  make  this  form  suitable  for  any  of  the  anniversary 
weddings.  It  is  not  unusual  to  have  the  marriage  ceremony  repeated 
at  the  silver  or  golden  weddings.  This  gives  them  a  certain  impress- 
iveness  and  solemnity,  to  see  a  husband  and  wife  who  have  remained 
faithful  for  a  quarter  or  half  a  century  publicly  renewing  their  vows  of 
fidelity  and  love,  which  then  can  only  mean,  "till  death  do  us  part." 

COFFEE  OR  TEA-PARTIES. 

It  used  to  be  and  is  still  the  fashion  in  the  country  to  give 
a  tea-party,  where  no  particular  fashion  is  followed,  only  all  are  wel- 
comed with  an  old-fashioned  cordiality  and  freedom.  Now  the  city 
people  are  following  in  their  footsteps,  only  in  order  to  give  it  the  stamp 
of  foreign  birth  they  call  them  "  coffees  "  and  "  kettle-drums."  At  one 
we  drink  coffee,  the  other  tea,  with  its  usual  accompaniments  of  sand- 
wiches, salads,  biscuits,  cakes  and  pickles,  which  are  served  in  an  infor- 
mal manner.  The  tea-table  is  usually  spread  in  the  back  parlor,  or 
room  adjoining  the  parlor,  and  the  ladies  of  the  house  prepare  the  tea, 
and  they  (without  the  aid  of  servants)  attend  to  the  wants  of  their 
guests.  Chocolate,  and  sometimes  beef  tea,  is  served  also.  Here  is  a 
fine  opportunity  to  show  the  old-fashioned  and  odd  pieces  of  china  (if 


56  ENTERTAINMENTS. 

you  are  fortunate  enough  to  possess  any),  for  where  every  cup  is  of  dif- 
ferent style,  your  china,  at  least,  will  be  a  success.  The  dress  should 
consist  of  a  calling  costume.  The  apartments  should  be  decorated  with 
plants  and  flowers.  Invitations  can  be  written,  or  given  verbally ;  if 
written,  in  one  corner  of  the  card  should  be  written  the  hour,  with  the 
specified  date,  and  tea  should  be  served  shortly  after  the  hour  given. 
Oftentimes  dancing  or  card-playing  follows  the  tea;  and  the  guests 
remain  until  ten  o'clock,  or  even  later.  In  this  case  the  bonnets  or  hats 
are  removed  when  the  visitors  enter.  The  usual  custom  is  to  leave 
within  an  hour,  and  you  should  then  make  your  adieux  to  the  members 
of  the  family.  Introductions  are  not  often  given,  but  all  can  feel  at  hb- 
erty  to  converse  with  one  another.  Evening  "  tea-parties  "  or  "coffees  " 
are  gaining  much  favor,  and  are  kept  up  till  quite  late  hours.  Lit- 
tle tables  are  placed  about  the  rooms,  and  all  sit  around  them  at 
lunch,  and  are  as  jolly  and  informal  as  possible.  After  a  few  days  a 
ceremonious  call  should  be  paid  by  the  guest,  not  to  exceed  ten  min- 
utes. 

KETTLE-DRUMS. 

A  kettle-drum  is  distinguished  from  a  calling  day  inasmuch  as  it  is  a 
special,  though  light,  entertainment,  and  consequently  invitations  are 
given  out  and  refreshments  are  offered.  Naturally  there  is  less  formal', 
ity  at  a  kettle-drum  than  at  a  larger  day  reception,  but  courtesy  and 
high  breeding  are  never  out  of  place,  whether  the  occasion  be  an 
important  or  an  indifferent  one  ;  and  although  much  of  the  trouble  and 
expenditure  of  a  formal  party  can  be  dispensed  with,  a  lady  will  take 
pleasure  in  making  everything  as  bright  and  enjoyable  as  possible. 

Invitations  to  a  kettle-drum  may  be  given  solely  in  the  name  of  a  lady» 
It  is  not  necessary,  as  on  other  occasions,  that  the  name  of  the  husband 
should  be  joined  with  that  of  the  hostess,  but  if  she  has  a  daughter  who 
is  in  society,  her  name  should  also  be  given. 

This  should  be  written  upon  a  card  and  inclosed  in  an  envelope,  and 
sent  by  post  a  week  in  advance  of  the  entertainment.  It  is  not  neces- 
sary to  send  an  acceptance  for  a  kettle-drum ;  neither  are  after-calls 
obligatory. 

The  hostess,  in  receiving  at  such  an  entertainment,  should,  if  she  sits, 
place  herself  in  a  conspicuous  part  of  the  parlor  and  remain  there  as 
much  of  the  time  as  is  possible.  She  is  not  expected  to  move  about  for 
the  purpose  of  looking  after  her  guests.  They  are  to  seek  her.  Gen- 
eral introductions  are  not  customary  at  a  kettle-drum.  With  regard  to 
introductions,  the  rule  is,  to  always  present  a  gentleman  to  a  lady,  a 
younger  to  an  elder,  an  unmarried  lady  to  one  who  is  married,  and  the 
less  distinguished  to  one  of  greater  distinction.  It  may  be  permissible 
for  one  friend  to  introduce  another  at  a  party,  but  it  is  better  manners 
to  have  all  introductions  come  from  the  hostess.     Care  should  be  t'aken 


LITERAR  V  DRAMA  TIC  CL  UBS.  57 

to  pronounce  the  names  distinctly.  The  lady  should  not  rise,  neither  is 
she  expected  to  offer  her  hand.  She  smiles,  bows,  and  expresses  pleas- 
ure in  making  the  acquaintance. 

The  time  at  a  kettle-drum  is  passed  in  greeting  friends,  desultory 
conversation,  and  in  listening  to  music,  or  recitations.  And  here  good 
good  judgment  is  requisite  in  making  the  best  selections.  A  cheerful 
song,  well  sung,  will  always  be  acceptable,  but  in  listening  to  instru- 
mental pieces  there  is  less  intelligence  and  sympathy.  Therefore, 
something  gay  and  sparkling,  that  is  appreciated  by  all,  should  be 
chosen.  And  here  it  may  not  be  out  of  place  to  say  a  word  in  disap- 
proval of  the  very  bad  habit  sometimes  seen  in  "  our  best  society  " — the 
habit  of  one  guest  inviting  and  urging  another  guest  to  sing,  to  play,  or 
to  recite.  This  is  very  bad  manners.  All  requests  of  this  kind  should 
come  from  the  hostess. 

The  refreshments  usual  at  a  kettle-drum  are  lemonade,  coffee,  choco- 
late, cakes,  ices,  sandwiches  and  oysters.  Demi-toilette  is  all  that  is 
requisite  for  a  kettle-drum  for  either  ladies  or  gentlemen. 

LITERARY  DRAMATIC  CLUBS. 

A  very  successful  form  of  entertainment  consists  of  musical  oper- 
ettas, the  parts  being  mostly  sustained  by  amateurs.  Dramatists  can 
also  get  up  a  comedy  or  play  and  have  it  acted  with  music  between  the 
acts.  If  it  is  not  of  the  highest  literary  ability,  it  can  be  made  up  by 
plenty  of  fun  and  local  allusions,  which  are  sure  to  be  appreciated. 
Literary  parties  may  be  made  exceedingly  interesting.  The  lady  at 
whose  house  the  party  is  given  has  a  right  to  select  the  author  from 
whom  the  characters  are  to  be  taken.  The  dressing  is  to  be  taken 
from  the  printed  description,  and  the  conversation  and  manner  should 
accord  with  it.  In  short,  one  must  act  like  an  unwritten  play.  Dra- 
matic clubs  are  agreeable  to  their  members,  and  less  likely  to  cause 
unpleasant  rivalries  than  private  plays  are. '  Some  clubs  read  Shake- 
speare alone  and  some  devote  their  time  wholly  to  Dickens,  but  the 
more  diversity  there  is,  the  least  likely  the  clubs  are  to  tire  of  it.  Few 
can  hope  ever  to  excel  in  dehneating  Shakespeare,  but  it's  a  good  plan 
for  social  enjoyment  and  improvement. 

A  very  successful  club  (known  to  the  writer),  was  once  started  by  some 
young  ladies  with  a  view  of  making  home  and  winter  evenings  agree- 
able to  their  brothers.  A  committee  was  chosen  to  form  a  code  of 
laws.  Each  one  was  to  subscribe  a  small  sum  to  purchase  the  "  libret- 
tos "  of  their  plays.  The  following  rules  were  signed  by  all  the  mem- 
bers : 

1.  Each  member  of  the  club  must  take  his  or  her  turn  in  choosing  a 
play,  and  in  giving  out  the  role  of  characters. 

2.  Every  member  must  take  the  character  given  him  and  do  his  best, 


58  ENTERTAINMENTS, 

unless  he  can  exchange  with  some  other  member,  with  the  consent  of 
the  one  who  selected  the  play. 

3.  The  one  who  selects  the  play  has  a  right  to  the  best  character. 

4.  The  club  shall  meet  once  a  week  at  the  houses  of  members  in 
alphabetical  rotation. 

5.  Whenever  any  member  is  unable  to  take  his  part  and  cannot 
attend  the  meeting,  he  must  provide  some  one  to  take  his  character. 

6.  No  new  member  can  be  admitted  without  the  vote  of  the  majo- 
rity. 

7.  Each  member  must  study  his  or  her  part  well  before  meeting  with 
the  club.  If  any  two,  or  several,  should  have  difficult  parts  together, 
they  must  meet  privately  and  practice  them. 

At  first  they  merely  read  the  plays  ;  but  soon  they  partially  acted 
them,  and  found  them  increase  in  interest  thereby.  They  always  had 
their  little  librettos  with  them ;  those  who  had  ready  memories  rarely 
referred  to  them,  or  a  mere  glance  would  be  sufficient.  Finally,  they 
dressed  in  character  and  admitted  an  audience.  One  will  be  surprised 
to  see  how  much  dramatic  ability  they  have,  that,  though  latent  now, 
if  once  aroused,  bursts  forth  in  full  force.  It  does  no  harm  either,  but 
gives  one  grace,  ease  and  self-possession,  off  as  well  as  on  the  stage. 
An  amateur  actor  or  actress  may  be  known  by  their  walk  ;  they  always 
come  in  walking  directly  on  their  heels.  The  first  thing  to  cultivate  on 
the  stage  is  a  graceful  carriage.  Under  the  rules  given  above  one  may 
become  familiar  with  the  best  plays  without  wearying  of  them,  and 
each  member  has  equal  opportunity  of  consulting  his  own  taste.  Per- 
sons who  read  French  and  German  will  find  this  an  admirable  way  of 
learning  to  converse  with  ease  in  either  of  those  languages. 

PREPARING  THE  STAGE  AND  ACCESSORIES. 

To  make  the  plays  successful,  select  a  house  which  has  two  parlors, 
connected  by  large  folding  doors  or  an  arch  ;  one  parlor  being  for  the 
audience  and  one  for  the  stage.  All  the  furniture  and  carpets  should 
be  taken  from  the  latter  room.  A  rough  staging  should  be  built 
(boards  can  easily  be  hired),  and  by  boring  a  hole  in  the  floor  a  gas 
pipe  can  be  run  along  the  front  of  the  staging  with  a  sufficient  number 
of  burners.  Tin  shades,  painted  green — as  they  render  the  light  softer 
and  more  agreeable  to  the  eye — are  an  addition,  for  they  keep  the  light 
from  the  audience  and  throw  it  directly  on  the  actors.  A  large  floor 
cloth  can  be  nailed  on  the  stage  for  a  carpet.  A  drop  curtain,  so 
arranged  as  to  be  rolled  up  quickly  and  easily  by  means  of  a  cord  pul- 
ley at  one  side  of  the  stage,  where  the  prompter  sits,  just  out  of  sight 
of  the  audience,  is  necessary.  Scenery  for  the  sides  and  back  parts  of 
the  stage  can  be  roughly  painted  on  cloth ;  it  answers  every  purpose 
of  canvas  by  being   stretched   when   wet  over  light  wooden  frames 


MAKE-UP  AND   WARDROBE.  59 

(made  so  as  to  be  easily  moved).  When  dry  it  represents  a  smooth, 
hard  surface. 

With  old  finery  and  a  little  ingenuity  the  accessories  can  be  easily 
supplied.  Rocks  can  be  made  by  throwing  plain  gray  shawls  over 
ottomans,  tables,  etc.,  and  rain  may  be  imitated  by  dropping  peas  in  a 
tin  pan,  thunder  by  rattling  sheet-iron,  lightning  by  means  of  a  tin 
tube,  larger  at  one  end  than  the  other  and  filled  with  powdered  resin. 
The  smaller  end  of  the  tube  should  be  open,  the  other  end  so  managed 
that  the  resin  may  sift  through.  Shake  the  tube  over  a  lamp,  or  blow 
the  resin  through  a  plain  tube  into  the  flame  of  a  lamp,  and  you  will 
have  a  good  imitation  of  lightning.  I  would  advise  you  to  practice  on 
this  outside  if  you  want  to  make  a  success  of  it  without  burning 
yourselves. 

Dissolve  crystals  of  nitrate  of  copper  in  spirits  of  wine,  light  the 
solution  and  it  will  burn  with  a  beautiful  emerald  green  flame.  Pieces 
of  sponge  soaked  in  this  spirit,  lighted  and  suspended  by  fine  wires 
over  the  stage  of  theatres  produce  the  lambent  green  flames  now  so 
common  in  incantation  scenes.  Strips  of  flannel  saturated  with  it  and 
wrapped  around  pieces  of  copper  will  form  the  swords  and  fire-forks 
brandished  by  the  demons  in  such  scenes.  Devices  like  the  above  are 
very  simple  and  add  much  to  the  general  effect. 

MAKE-UP  AND  WARDROBE. 

To  give  the  required  expressions  to  the  faces  a  box  of  good  water 
colors,  some  fine  chalk  powder,  a  camel's  hair  pencil  and  rouge  saucers 
are  wanted.  To  make  frowns,  scowls  or  comical  expressions,  such  as 
a  broad  grin,  smirk  or  simper,  stand  before  a  mirror  and  assume  the 
desired  expression  ;  then  trace  the  wrinkles  produced  with  a  fine  brush 
of  the  brown  tint;  this  will  fix  the  required  expression  of  the  face. 
Rouge  is  best  applied  with  the  finger.  Burnt  cork  is  excellent  for  dark- 
ening eyebrows  and  making  mustaches,  also  for  representing  leanness, 
which  can  be  done  by  applying  a  faint  tinge  just  under  the  eyes,  on 
the  sides  of  the  cheeks  and  under  the  lower  lip.  A  strong  mark,  run- 
ning from  the  corner  of  the  nose  down  towards  the  corner  of  the 
mouth  on  each  side  marks  age  or  emaciation. 

In  regard  to  the  preparation  of  wardrobes  :  Ermine  is  made  of  cot- 
ton flannel,  with  tags  of  lion  skin  cloth  sewed  on,  or  black  tags  painted. 
Pelisse  wadding  is  sometimes  used.  Powdered  wigs  can  be  made  of 
tow,  raveled  yarn,  or  gray-colored  horsehair ;  beards  and  mustache  of 
the  same,  or  a  piece  of  buffalo  skin.  Crowns  and  sceptres  are  easily 
made  of  pasteboard  and  gold  paper.  Velvet  talma  cloaks,  capes,  or 
even  the  loose  velvet  sack  can  be  converted  into  cavalier  cloaks  (the 
armholes  in  the  sack  must  be  fastened  up  on  the  inside)  by  fastening 
them  gracefully  over  one  shoulder.     Then  put  on  a  large,  old-fashioned 


60  ENTERTAINMENTS. 

lace  collar,  ruffles  around  the  hand,  a  Kossuth  hat,  looped  on  one  side 
with  a  paste  pin  or  buckle,  fastening  a  white  or  black  plume,  stockings 
drawn  over  the  pantaloons  and  fastened  at  the  knees  with  bows  and 
buckles,  and  with  but  little  trouble  you  have  a  cavaHer  of  the  olden 
times. 

PROVERBS  AND  CHARADES. 

"  There  is  no  use  in  crying  over  spilt  milk."  The  scene  is  a  farm 
kitchen.  In  the  center  stands  a  milkmaid,  dressed  in  a  short,  striped 
chmtz  skirt,  a  white  muslin  waist,  and  jaunty  cap  which  she  holds  in 
her  hand.  She  is  crying  over  the  pail  of  milk  which  has  fallen  at  her 
feet.  The  milk  is  pouring  out  (use  cotton,  as  it  makes  an  excellent 
imitation  of  milk).  Standing  beside  her  is  a  young  farmer  who  is  try- 
ing to  comfort  her ;  he  points  to  the  milk  and  shrugs  his  shoulders,  as 
if  quoting  the  proverb,  "  There  is  no  use  in  crying  over  spilt  milk." 

"Listeners  hear  no  good  of  themselves" — a  parlor  scene. — In  the 
foreground  are  two  g^rls.  One  of  them  is  holding  out  a  miniature  to 
the  other,  who  puts  it  aside  with  an  expression  of  anger  and  contempt. 
The  one  who  holds  the  miniature  is  laughing  heartily;  she  points  her 
finger  at  the  second  as  if  teasing  her  about  the  picture.  Peeping  out 
from  behind  a  w:ndow  curtain  is  a  young  man  who,  with  an  expression 
of  rage,  is  shaking  ais  fist  at  the  girls  in  the  foreground. 

Charades  are  easier  and  take  less  time.  A  few  simple  ones  are  here 
given  as  examples,  and  as  one  progresses  harder  ones  can  be  studied  up. 

"  Penny  " — A  dust-pan  on  the  floor,  standing  beside  it  is  a  girl  dressed 
as  a  servant.  In  one  hand  she  has  the  dust-brush,  in  the  other  a 
"  penny."     She  holds  it  up  to  the  audience  with  a  look  of  delight. 

"  Tent " — Make  a  "  tent  "  at  one  side  by  fastening  a  sheet  down  at 
the  corners ;  stand  a  pole  in  the  center  of  it.  On  the  other  side  stand 
a  peasant  girl  in  a  chintz  dress  and  large  straw  hat.  Seated  before  her, 
holding  her  hand,  is  a  woman  in  a  red  dress,  turban  and  shawl  crossed 
over  the  breast.  Long  hair  falling  loosely  adds  to  the  gypsy's  appear- 
ance. She  is  reading  the  girl's  fortune.  Peeping  out  from  the  tent, 
behind  the  young  girl,  is  a  man  in  peasant's  dress,  who  tries  to  catch 
the  woman's  eye. 

"Penitent" — A  room  with  a  crucifix  on  a  table,  rich  dresses  thrown 
carelessly  over  the  chairs,  a  soft  light.  Kneeling  in  front  is  a  young 
girl  in  white,  her  hair  falling  over  her  shoulders,  her  hands  clasped,  her 
head  bowed.  By  her  side  stands  a  man  in  a  monk's  dress  who  looks 
upward.  One  hand  is  pointed  up,  the  other  is  extended,  as  if  inviting 
the  "  penitent"  to  rise.     Soft  music  adds  very  much  to  the  effect. 

"  Farewell :  "  "  Fare  " — A  gentleman  dressed  as  a  hackman  can  come 
in,  whip  in  hand.  Then  a  gentleman  and  a  lady  and  a  child  should 
appear,  dressed  for  a  journey.  The  hackman  must  address  them  in 
the  usual  manner,  offering  to  take  them  to  any  place,  etc.     The  gentle- 


PRO  VERBS  AND  CHARADES.  61 

man  must  then  ask  :  "  What  is  the  fare  ?  "  and  bargains  for  it,  refusing 
to  pay  fare  for  the  child,  etc.  "  Well  " — Two  ladies  enter  with  hats  and 
shawls  on  and  appear  to  meet  accidentally;  each  asks  anxiously  if  the 
other  is  well,  and  if  all  the  family  are  well,  etc. 

"  Farewell "  can  be  acted  in  various  ways.  A  party  with  band-boxes 
and  baskets,  on  their  way  We^t,  may  be  bidding  farewell  to  friends ;  or 
a  lover,  going  to  California,  may  be  taking  leave  of  his  lady  love,  etc. 

"  Carpet :  "  "  Car  " — Several  persons  may  pass  in  and  out  dressed  in 
character;  as  a  Yankee  peddler,  a  country  girl  never  before  from  home, 
a  man  of  business,  a  fine  lady  with  servants  and  various  parties,  all 
appearing  to  be  waiting  for  the  cars  and  talking  about  them.  Suddenly 
let  a  bell  ring,  and  the  conductor  call  out :  "  Cars  start  for,"  etc.  All 
then  rush  forward  in  character.  "  Pet " — Let  a  lady  come  in  with  a  cat, 
dog.  or  any  pet  animal,  fondling  it  as  absurdly  as  possible,  pretending  it 
is  sick,  calling  for  some  one  to  go  for  the  doctor,  etc.  "Carpet" — 
Arrange  a  table  as  a  counter ;  some  one  must  act  as  shopman.  Let  a 
lady  enter  with  a  simpering  air,  her  husband  following,  and  ask  to  look 
at  carpets.  Have  in  readiness  under  the  counter  several  pieces  of  car- 
pets or  rugs,  which  the  shopman  should  display,  while  the  lady  con- 
sults the  taste  of  her  lord,  etc. 

"Lunatic:"  "Luna" — A  gentleman,  dressed  as  a  young  collegian, 
enters  with  a  young  lady  on  his  arm  ;  they  pretend  to  be  walking  by 
moonlight.  He  speaks  of  the  moon  by  its  Latin  name,  Luna,  and  talks 
in  a  high-flown  style.  The  lady  may  ask  in  a  flat  and  awkward  manner, 
"who  is  Luna  ?  "  saying  she  never  heard  of  her,  etc.,  etc.  The  young 
man  explains  in  a  bombastic  style  who  Luna  is.  "  Tic  " — A  lady  repre- 
sents an  old  woman,  and  goes  about  offering  to  make  over  old  ticks  as 
good  as  new,  and  also  says  she  has  some  geese  feathers  to  sell,  carry- 
ing on,  of  course,  other  conversation,  so  that  the  word  guessed  may  not 
be  too  apparent.  "Lunatic" — The  best  actor  of  the  company  feigns 
the  part  of  a  lunatic,  in  any  way  he  sees  fit. 

These  will  afford  as  much  amusement  as  the  actors  can  give  by  exer- 
cising all  their  wit  and  ingenuity  to  deceive  the  audience.  It  gives  a 
wide  scope,  and  can  be  made  into  a  very  lively  performance.  Old- 
fashioned  garments,  gay  shawls,  scarfs,  old  coats,  hats,  aprons,  gowns, 
etc.,  must  be  looked  up  for  the  occasion,  and  speedily  converted  into 
various  and  grotesque  costumes,  suited  to  the  representation  to  be  made. 
Speed,  in  all  representations,  is  quite  necessary  to  success,  as  an  audi- 
ence is  always  impatient.  If  it  is  determined  to  have  charades  at  a 
party,  the  lady  of  the  house  should  arrange  dresses,  plan  of  action  and 
subjects  before  hand.  If  all  the  arrangements  can  be  made  without  the 
knowledge  of  her  guests,  the  effect  will  be  greatly  increased. 


62  ENTERTAINMENTS, 


PICTURE  GALLERIES. 

Place  empty  frames  in  a  standing  or  leaning  position  on  tables  cov- 
ered with  cloths,  which  must  touch  the  floor.  A  person  kneels  behind 
each,  putting  the  head  in  the  frame,  whiqh  is  upheld  by  the  hands  so 
they  are  concealed  from  the  audience.  A  sitting  position  can  some- 
times be  adopted.  A  black  cloth  should  be  hung  behind  the  frames  so 
as  to  form  a  background.  The  effect  of  a  succession  of  these  is  like  a 
gallery  of  portraits,  A  fancy  dress  can  be  assumed,  or  historical  or 
other  characters  represented. 

STATUARY  REPRESENTATIONS. 

Statuary,  when  personated  by  intelligent  ladies  and  gentleman,  can 
be  made  very  amusing.  Some  witty  gentleman,  well  versed  in  statuary, 
takes  the  part  of  showman.  He  first  selects  from  the  company  those 
he  wishes  to  assist  him,  being  careful  to  select  only  such  as  can  best 
control  their  countenances.  After  obtaining  a  number  of  sheets,  he 
takes  possession  of  a  parlor,  shutting  the  rest  of  the  company  out.  He 
then  arranges  his  statuary  around  the  room  as  quickly  as  possible,  cov- 
ering each  one  or  each  group  with  a  sheet ;  then  throws  open  the  door 
and  invites  the  company  to  a  rare  exhibition  of  statuary.  After  making 
a  grandiloquent  speech  he  uncovers  a  group  and  gives  as  absurd  a 
description  as  possible,  so  on  through  the  whole.  As  fun  is  the  chief 
object,  take,  for  example,  some  tall  plain  gentleman  and  place  him  with 
bow  in  hand  for  Cupid.  A  ready  mind  can  easily  suggest  additional 
figures  with  their  appropriate  costumes. 

TABLEAUX  VIVANTS. 

Poems  may  be  illustrated  by  a  series  of  living  pictures.  This  is  more 
interesting  than  simply  to  personify  some  one  picture.  Any  of  the 
magazine  pictures  will  give  ideas  for  tableaux.  Many  of  these  can  be 
represented  with  music,  keeping  the  musicians  in  the  background  out 
of  sight.  Many  of  the  scenes  in  song  may  be  represented  in  this  way. 
Will  give  one,  as  for  example,  the  "  Mistletoe  Bough."  First  represent 
a  room  decorated  with  green,  a  company  assembled,  gayly  dressed,  and 
(lancing,  while  a  lady  or  gentleman  behind  the  scene  sings  the  verse 
represented  in  distinct  tones,  and  so  on  through  the  whole  song,  the 
last  scene  representing  the  children  in  a  lumber  room  opening  an  old 
chest  and  exposing  a  skeleton,  old  flowers,  etc.  "  Auld  Robin  Grey  " 
and  "  The  Three  Fishers  "  are  easily  represented.  Still  another  variety 
of  tableaux  is  a  song  represented  in  pantomine,  for  instance,  the  song 
of  "Blue  Beard,"  or  "  O.  They  Marched  Through  the  Town."  "A 
Gypsy  Camp  "  makes  a  very  pretty  tableaux.     "  The  Madonna,"  "  Com- 


ETCHING,  63 

ing  Through  the  Rye,"  "An  Artist's  Studio,"  "Paul  and  Virginia" 
(under  an  umbrella),  "Saturday  Night" — the  mother  scrubbing  her 
young  hopeful's  face ;  all  of  Rogers'  group  of  statuary  make  excellent 
subjects  for  tableaux  vivants. 


ETCHiisra. 

DESIGNS  AND  MATERIAL  REQUIRED. 

Etching  on  linen  is  a  branch  of  decorative  art  which  seems  peculiarly 
adapted  for  amateurs,  as  they  can  finish  the  work  entirely  themseh^es. 
The  designs  are  to  be  found  in  every  illustrated  book,  and  the  materials 
for  the  work  are  so  inexpensive  that  those  who  feel  the  divine  gift 
throbbing  in  their  fingers,  and  yet  are  shut  out  from  painting  on  china, 
or  glass  staining,  can  prove  their  talent  by  quaint  or  beautiful  pictures 
drawn  on  plain  household  fabrics  such  as  table-cloth,  doylies  and  chair 
covers.  There  is  a  peculiar  charm,  too,  just  in  this  very  matter  of 
making  the  daily  household  linen  suggestive,  by  quaint  mottoes  and 
artistic  outlines,  of  comment  and  inquiry,  among  those  who  gather 
around  the  table,  and  anyone  can  find  subjects  for  etching  by  merely 
adopting  the  illustrations  from  children's  books. 

What  could  be  more  appropriate,  for  instance,  for  tea  doylies  than  the 
designs  in  illustrated  "  Mother  Goose "  of  Jack  Homer,  Little  Miss 
Muffat,  or  the  renowned  boy  who  wouldn't  eat  his  supper,  and  so  grew 
beautifully  less  .^^  Kate  Green  way's  designs  and  Miss  Emmett's  are 
charming,  or  any  of  the  dainty  childish  figures  scattered  through  Wide- 
Awake  and  St.  Nicholas. 

Etching  is  also  admirably  adapted  for  tidies,  splash  mats  and  pillow 
shams.  Linen  tidies  should  have  a  framing  of  drawn  work  around  the 
etching,  and  outside  of  that  the  linen  fringed.  Screens,  made  with 
movable  linen  panels,  can  be  etched  with  numerous  small  designs,  or 
each  panel  having  a  large  picture. 

Two  misunderstandings  as  to  this  pretty  art  have  misled  amateurs. 
The  first  is  that  the  materials  used  admit  of  very  imperfect  results,  so 
that  mere  outlines  have  been  attempted ;  the  other  is  that  the  begmner 
has  attempted  a  good  deal,  but  finding  her  ink  treacherous,  has  become 
discouraged  and  given  up  in  despair. 

MARKING  AND  TRANSFERRING. 

Wash  out  any  dressing  that  may  be  in  the  fabric,  and  iron  smoothly 
before  applying  the  preparation. 

Smooth  the  place,  after  the  preparation  is  dry,  with  an  iron  only  warm 
or  moderately  hot. 


64  ETCHING, 

Shake  the  ink  before  beginning-,  and  occasionally  while  at  work. 

Use  a  clean  pen,  and  keep  it  clean. 

Just  before  beginning  or  resuming  work,  always  rest'  a  warm  iron 
on  the  place,  to  insure  its  being  perfectly  dry  when  the  ink  is  applied. 

Working  in  the  morning  is  advisable,  that  the  design  may  be  sunned 
enough  to  fix  the  ink  before  night.  Dampness  will  not  mar  the  work 
after  it  has  six  hours'  sunning;  but,  until  then,  protect  the  design  from 
all  dampness  in  a  close,  dry  or  warm  place  till  it  can  be  again  exposed 
to  the  sunlight. 

The  depth  of  color  (if  the  above  directions  have  been  followed) 
depends  wholly  upon  the  time  the  work  is  exposed  to  the  sun  before 
washing.  If  a  jet  black  is  wanted,  several  days'  sunning  will  secure  it. 
A  costly  etching  should  have  three  days'  sun-bath  in  summer  and  a 
week  in  winter.  The  result  will  afford  ample  compensation  for  care  in 
this  direction. 

V/ash  out  the  preparation  in  two  or  three  changes  of  clear,  cold  water, 
one  design  at  a  time,  in  an  earthern  bowl. 

Remember,  in  shading,  that  the  sun  will  deepen  your  shadows. 
After  you  have  completed  your  drawing,  remove  the  original  pencil 
marks,  so  as  to  be  sure  every  line  is  complete  in  ink. 

To  transfer  designs,  place  the  black  transfer  paper  on  the  cloth,  lay 
the  design  on  the  transfer  paper,  and  then  go  over  the  lines  with  a  fine 
point,  bearing  on  only  hard  enough  to  obtain  a  distinct  outline. 

In  such  fabrics  as  satin  jean  make  the  design  "  across  the  grain.'  If 
you  intend  to  frame  by  drawn  work,  finish  your  etching  and  wash  it, 
before  making  the  frame. 

Decorated  fabrics  should  be  laundried  in  pure  soap  and  water  only,  as 
washing  chemicals  and  compounds  have  no  respect  for  art. 

The  same  ink  and  pen  used  for  etching  on  linen  are  very  bad  to  mark 
clothes  with.  The  lighter  the  etching,  the  prettier — that  is,  the  light 
brown  is  much  prettier  than  the  deep  black. 

DESIGNS  FOR  LUNCHEON  DOYLIES  AND  TRAY  COVERS. 

Doylies  for  use  at  luncheon  may  be  bought  in  ecru  or  in  gray  momie 
cloth,  already  fringed,  and  on  each  may  be  worked  in  crimson  washing 
cotton  a  design  taken  from  the  specimens  of  Bohemian  crackle  ware 
now  to  be  seen  in  all  of  our  shops.  Coral,  shells,  seaweed,  kelp,  lobs- 
ters, crabs,  etc.,  seem  more  appropriate  for  use  in  this  connection  than 
ferns,  grass,  daisies,  butterflies  and  wild  flowers,  which  in  their  turn 
serve  to  decorate  the  fine  linen  squares  employed  beneath  the  finger 
bowl  at  dessert.  A  set  of  luncheon  doylies  made  of  buff  linen  has  a 
series  of  comical  designs,  such  as  elves  hiding  beneath  mushrooms,  elves 
with  caps  made  of  the  blossom  of  the  convolvulus  reversed,  an  elf  caught 
in  a  cobweb,  etc.,  etc.,  sketched  upon  them. 


FANCY  WORK.  65 

The  prettiest  of  decorated  tray  covers  are  strips  of  linen  crash,  or  of 
linen  with  deep  fringes  and  drawn-work  borders.  A  spray  or  sprays  of 
•Japanese  quince,  of  pyrus-japonica,  of  apple  blossom,  of  jasmine,  or  of 
periwinkle,  should  be  outlined  upon  the  cloth  in  fine  filoselle,  in  low- 
toned  shades  of  brown,  olive,  pink,  amber,  crimson  or  blue.  Fine  dam- 
ask looks  best  when  marked  with  the  initials  of  the  owner  in  close  satin 
stitch  with  embroidery  cottons,  and  monograms  are  also  used,  although 
less  than  formerly. 


FANCY  WORK. 

AFGHANS. 

A  pretty  one  for  a  child's  carriage  is  made  by  taking  two  full-sized 
white  clouds,  spread  them  out,  and  have  one  for  each  side  of  the  robe. 
Then  cover  a  sheet  of  wadding,  as  large  as  the  robe  will  be,  with  com- 
mon white  fly  netting,  so  it  will  hold  the  wadding  in  place.  Then  have 
the  clouds  one  on  each  side,  and  tie  the  way  you  do  a  puff,  with  tufts  of 
red  American  wool  or  narrow  pink  ribbon  bows.  Place  a  heavy  fringe 
around.  It  makes  a  delicate  and  warm  covering  for  the  carriage  in  cold 
weather.  For  summer,  take  a  large  square  of  white  or  cream-colored 
Java  canvas,  any  size  you  like  ;  work  the  child's  initials,  surrounded  by 
a  wreath  or  a  cluster  of  bright  flowers  ;  the  Grecian  pattern  for  the  bor- 
der, with  small  designs  in  the  comers.  One  is  also  pretty  worked  in 
strips  of  autumn  leaves  in  the  natural  shades.  Then  fringe  it,  and  knot 
here  and  there  worsted.  You  can  make  a  heavier  fringe  with  the 
crotchet  needle.  One  (robe)  a  little  warmer  can  be  made  by  crotchet- 
ing  with  a  large  ivory  hook  (Afghan  stitch)  seven  strips  of  American 
wool,  first  a  blue  and  then  a  white  strip,  or  red  and  white,  leaving  the 
blue  strips  for  the  outside,  On  the  white  strips  work  blue  stars,  and  on 
the  blue  strips  work  white  stars.  Fringe  with  heavy  fringe  of  both 
colors. 

BOOK  COVERS. 

One  way  is  to  cut  a  piece  of  rep,  merino  or  velvet,  exactly  as  you 
would  cut  a  paper  covering  for  a  book.  Cut  two  inches  larger  than  the 
book  to  be  covered ;  then  turn  over  the  edges,  and  with  a  needle 
threaded  lace  across  from  side  to  side  till  firmly  fastened  on.  You  can 
put  a  bow  in  each  corner  and  one  in  the  center.  Or,  cut  your  material 
in  the  form  of  a  large  envelope,  fit  the  book  loosely  in  and  then  sew  up 
the  sides,  binding  the  edges  all  round,  and  adding  a  button  and  loop  to 
fasten  the  flap  which  overlaps.  These  covers  can  be  made  of  brown 
Holland,  quilted  with  colored  silk,  or  in  dark  velvet  trimmed  and  bound 
with  gold  braid,  or  in  serge  worked  in  crewels,  with  a  border  around 
and  monogram  in  center. 
5 


FANCY  WORK. 


CARDS  UTILIZED. 


Tack  narrow  strips  of  ribbon  on  the  wall  and  slip  in  a  corner  of  the 
card,  just  enough  to  hold  it ;  fill  these  in  in  every  available  space  and  the 
bright-colored  cards  will  make  a  pretty  medley  picture  on  the  walls.  Or 
arrange  them  in  the  form  of  a  diamond,  cross  or  star,  fastening  them  with 
the  ribbon.  The  large  ones  can  be  fastened  on  oblong  pieces  or  square 
pieces  of  silk,  with  the  edge  fringed  to  the  depth  of  an  inch  and  hung 
up  with  narrow  ribbon  or  small  silk  cord.  Two  of  these  can  be  joined 
together  by  a  ribbon  hinge,  and  used  for  a  hankerchief  or  glove  case, 
also  for  a  perfume  sachet,  by  putting  the  perfume  between  the  silk  and 
picture.  A  glove  case  may  be  made  of  the  narrow  panel  cards  without 
any  picture  for  the  bottom,  and  the  silk  slightly  wadded.  Another  way 
is  to  make  a  screen  of  light  thick  paper  and  paste  the  cards  on  thickly 
together,  starting  out  with  some  idea — as  a  star,  diamond  or  wheel — 
and  then  outlining  it  with  the  cards  on  the  paper,  first  using  the  pretti- 
est ones  and  filling  in  with  the  lesser  ones.  When  these  have  all  been 
carefully  varnished  several  times  the  effect  is  very  beautiful.  Or  arrange 
them  in  groups  of  three  or  five  on  the  wall,  fastening  with  a  bit  of  paste 
or  the  very  small  pins  that  are  so  handy  to  fasten  up  tiny  things,  as 
they  leave  no  perceptible  mark  on  the  paper. 

CARRIAGE  ROBES  AND  SADDLE  CLOTHS. 

Canvas  or  crotchet  is  now  but  little  used  for  these  robes,  their  places 
being  occupied  by  appHque  work  in  monograms  or  figures. 

A  neat  one  may  be  made  of  fashion  drapery,  felt  or  broadcloth,  bound 
with  colored  ribbon  or  pinked  at  the  edge,  and  a  wreath  of  flowers  and 
leaves  surrounding  a  monogram.  Forget-me-nots  and  leaves  embroid- 
ered or  appliqued  on  are  particularly  pretty  for  a  design,  with  a  veining 
of  dark  green  or  light  blue.  The  flowers  look  a  little  cold  for  winter, 
and  instead,  may  be  used  a  dog's,  horse's  or  deer's  head  in  applique,  or 
horseshoes  connected  with  a  graceful  intertwining  of  whips.  They  can 
be  cut  out  of  any  contrasting  color  and  laid  on  in  any  pretty  shape.  A 
wide  border  can  be  appliqued  of  any  fancied  pattern  and  in  the  center 
the  initial  or  monogram.  A  jockey  cap,  whip  and  horseshoe  makes  a 
pretty  corner.  The  cloth,  if  heavy  enough  without  lining,  may  be  pinked 
only  on  the  edge,  but  if  Hned  with  contrasting  colors  and  the  lining 
pinked,  it  makes  a  pretty  and  substantial  edge,  or  if  trimmed  with  fur- 
niture fringe.  For  summer  they  are  usually  made  of  canvas,  burlaps  or 
striped  linen  in  ecru  shades.  The  monogram  of  the  owner  worked  in 
the  center,  is  a  handsome  design,  which  need  not  be  carried  all  around ; 
or  autumn  leaves  can  be  worked  in  the  corners  with  a  spray  of  them, 
or  running  vines  around  the  edge.  This  can  be  made  in  applique  in 
crimson,  brown  and  green  shades.     An  appHque  design  of  chintz  or 


DKESSING  CASE  AND  SHA  WL  COVER.  6T 

cretonne  worked  in  colored  silks  always  looks  well ;  and  for  summer, 
brown  holland  worked  with  the  new  shaded  roses,  in  satin  grounds,  is 
beautiful. 

Colored  sheeting  also  looks  well  with  a  large  monogram  worked  in 
the  center  and  a  spray  of  flowers  in  each  corner.  Brown  holland, 
bound  around  with  red  or  dark-blue  braid,  should  be  worked  in  all  one 
color,  or  chintz  flowers  may  be  arranged  all  around  and  appliqued  on ; 
or  a  design  of  flowers  and  leaves,  worked  upon  a  wide  band  of  blue, 
looks  well — the  blue  to  be  stitched  to  the  carriage  cloth,  adding  long 
stitches  on  each  side  of  the  band.  They  should  be  "spikey"  stitches, 
which  are  easily  worked  and  very  effective  if  done  in  some  bright  color. 

A  pretty  saddle-cloth  can  be  easily  made  by  first  procuring  a  pattern 
of  the  right  shape  from  a  saddler.  Then  take  black  cloth  and  cut  the 
shape  of  the  pattern,  add  a  bordering  of  scarlet  pinked  out,  and  the 
owner's  monogram  or  initials  embroidered  or  appliqued  on  with  scarlet 
or  black  in  the  corners.  Gold  can  be  introduced  into  this  with  good 
effect. 

COMFORTABLES. 

Pretty  comfortables,  or  quilts,  are  made  of  unbleached  cotton  filled 
with  wool  or  cotton,  tied  with  bright  zephyr  and  bound  with  ribbon  to 
match,  or  with  deep  crotcheted  edge ;  also,  of  red  or  blue  silesia  tied 
with  tiny  tufts  of  silk  or  zephyr.  These  are  to  lay  on  the  bed,  and  are 
often  made  of  cretonne  or  sateen  to  match  the  furniture  coverings. 
Holland  is  used  as  a  border  on  light  blue  sateen  cover,  or  the  Holland 
worked  with  blue  floss  or  worsted  makes  a  very  pretty  spread. 

DRESSING  CASE  AND  SHAWL  COVER. 

This  dressing  case  for  the  toilet  paraphernalia  will  be  found  very 
convenient.  This  is  a  simple  way  of  making  one :  Take  a  straight 
piece  of  cloth  or  ornamental  leather ;  double,  eleven  inches  broad  and 
nineteen  inches  long.  Pockets  are  made  at  each  end  by  stitching  on  a 
piece,  leaving  it  open  at  the  top  with  a  flap  or  cover  stitched  above  it 
)nade  of  the  same  material  as  the  outside  and  bound  with  ribbon  or 
braid.  A  strip  of  leather  with  slits  cut  in  it  is  stitched  through  the 
center  of  case,  through  which  a  strap  sixteen  inches  long  is  slipped. 
Slope  it  a  trifle  at  one  end  that  it  can  go  through  readily,  and  make  sev- 
eral buttonholes  at  the  end,  so  that  after  placing  in  the  necessary  articles, 
it  may  be  drawn  tightly  and  buttoned.  On  the  outside  is  a  strap  bound 
with  ribbon  or  braid  to  fasten  the  case  when  rolled.  This  may  be 
made  of  leather,  linen  or  canvas. 

A  shawl  cover  can  be  made  to  match  of  a  long  piece  of  the  material, 
with  pieces  stitched  along  the  sides,  six  inches  wide,  to  turn  over  in  the 
inside,  on  the  principle  of  a  physician's  medicine  case,  so  that  the  con- 
tents will  not  show  from  the  outside.     This  is  all  bound  with  braid  and 


68  FANCY   WORK, 

the  cover  prettily  worked  with  a  vine  or  stripe,  with  monograms  or  initials. 
This  is  not  only  convenient,  but  gives  a  decided  air  of  stylishness  to  the 
traveling  equipage.  This  may  be  made  wide  enough  to  strap  the  umbrella 
and  walking-stick  on  the  outside.  The  shawl  strap  may  be  worked  to 
correspond,  and  can  be  lined  and  mounted  with  leather  at  the  trunk 
maker's. 

EMERY  WHEELS  AND  THIMBLE  CASE. 

Emery  cushions  may  be  made  in  many  shapes.  One  of  the  newest 
forms  is  that  of  a  tea  cosy,  nicely  stuffed  with  emery  powder,  and  with 
a  small  flower,  star  or  other  design  embroidered  in  filoselle  or  worked 
in  beads  on  the  sides.  A  tiny  cord  should  be  placed  along  the  seams 
and  twisted  into  a  loop  at  the  top,  to  resemble  a  handle.  They  may  be 
made  of  any  pretty  material — silk,  satin  or  velvet.. 

A  thimble  case  and  emery  cushion  combined  is  iTsade  in  this  way : 
Use  a  pill-box  for  the  foundation  of  the  case ;  pad  the  inside  and  cover 
with  velvet ;  leave  space  in  the  center  to  place  in  the  thimble  ;  sew  the 
bottom  of  the  box  to  a  larger  circle  of  velvet ;  cover  with  velvet.  A 
round  cushion  filled  with  emery  powder  and  covered  with  velvet  is 
placed  on  the  top  of  the  lid,  the  sides  of  which  are  embroidered  on  a 
silk  band  and  fastened  around. 

FEATHERS  FOR  DECORATIVE  PURPOSES. 

Peacock  feathers  with  their  beautiful  form  and  color,  are  so  oriental 
in  effect  that  one  never  tires  of  seeing  them,  nor  does  a  piece  of  fancy 
work  made  from  them  ever  grow  old  and  passe.  Five  peacock  feathers 
fastened  on  the  wall  with  a  bow  of  peacock-blue  or  green  satin  ribbon, 
or  two  of  the  long  feathers  pinned  up  and  falling  in  their  natural  curves, 
with  shorter  ones  at  the  base,  are  very  pretty.  One  left  to  droop  from 
the  top  of  an  easel  down  over  a  picture  is  also  effective. 

Whole  peacocks  are  stuffed  and  with  the  tail  wide  spread  are  used  as 
an  ornament  for  the  open  grate  or  fire-place  in  summer.  The  long  feath- 
ers are  put  into  large  vases  with  the  feathery,  creamy  pampas  plumes 
or  other  rare  and  beautiful  grasses.  Often  one  is  suspended  over  the 
top  of  a  picture  frame  or  tied  on  the  easel  with  a  bright  ribbon.  The 
smaller  ones  are  used  for  mats,  cornices,  lambrequins,  flower  pot  cov- 
ers, screens,  fringes  for  parasols,  fans  and  many  other  things. 

The  mats  are  made  of  coarse,  heavy  material  for  foundation,  and  the 
peacock  eyes  sewed  round  and  round  in  a  circle,  or  a  high  ruff  of  velvet 
with  a  band  of  feathers  upon  its  dark  surface  is  very  effective  for  mats, 
or  used  as  a  cornice.  For  lambrequins  the  foundation  should  be  of 
velvet,  either  dark  or  olive  green,  old  gold,  or  any  of  the  dark  shades 
except  black;  then  a  fringe  should  be  made  of  the  eyes,  and  in  each 
point  three  or  five  feathers  be  arranged,  as  the  fancy  may  dictate.  For 
parasols  they  are  only  used  as  fringe,  and  fans  may  be  made  entirely  of 


FANS  AND  HAND  SCREENS.  69 

them,  either  in  fan  or  circular  shape.  Ahtjost  anyone  can  make  a  cir- 
cular fan  by  getting  a  long  handled  Japanese  fan,  covering  it  with  silk 
or  satin  on  both  sides,  but  not  covering  the  under  side  until  the  upper 
one  is  made.  Commence  at  the  outer  edge  and  sew  row  after  row 
around,  working  all  the  time  toward  the  center  and  handle,  until  the  last 
ones  may  be  finished  by  a  bow  of  ribbon,  a  bird's  head,  or  a  tuft  of 
peacock  feather  fringe.  Make  this  on  the  same  principle  that  the  round 
feather  fans  are  made. 

For  flower-pot  covers  they  should  be  sewed  on  ticking,  perpendicu- 
larly, close  together,  so  as  to  completely  hide  the  edge  of  the  founda- 
tion; then  put  on  the  cardboard  shapes  sold  for  flower-pots.  A  lace 
table  cover,  with  deep,  coarse  lace  edge,  is  pretty  with  a  band  of  the 
feathers  at  the  top.  At  equal  distances  two  of  the  "  eye  "  feathers  are 
crossed  and  tacked  on,  the  quill  being  turned  toward  the  border.  The 
thread  which  attaches  them  to  the  cloth  is  first  threaded  with  gold 
beads,  which  make  a  sort  of  little  gold  brooch  ornament.  The  feathers 
are  cut  about  five  inches  long  and  arranged  at  about  two  inches 
from  the  feather  band.  These  may  be  left  out  and  the  feathers  only 
crossed  in  each  corner  in  addition  to  the  feather  band.  They  may  be 
used  in  the  same  way  for  a  mantel  lambrequin  or  curtain. 

A  very  unique  and  elegant  screen  may  be  made  by  using  a  back- 
ground of  velvet,  using  the  color  that  best  harmonizes  vdth  the  furni- 
ture coverings  and  also  the  pea-fowl  feathers,  then  arranging  gracefully 
upon  the  velvet  three  or  five  feathers,  fastened  with  a  bow  of  velvet 
ribbon,  as  described  above  for  the  wall.  Care  must  be  taken  that  they 
are  allowed  to  drop  gracefully  and  not  look  as  if  they  were  plastered  or 
glued  to  place. 

FANS  AND  HAND  SCREENS 

can  be  made  from  birds  with  their  wings  and  tails  outspread  and 
mounted  on  handles.  A  pointed  wire  is  run  up  the  under  side  of  each 
wing,  between  the  skin  and  bones,  and  twisted  firmly  in  position. 
The  bone  of  the  wing  is  bound  tightly  to  the  wire  and  wound  with 
jute.  The  wings  are  then  pinned  in  position  on  a  board,  with  backs 
to  touch.  When  well  dried  and  stiffened  the  wires  are  fastened  in  a 
handle  and  the  back  of  the  wings  drawn  tightly  by  a  strong  thread, 
which  is  drawn  through  them*  with  a  needle  and  tied.  The  joint 
between  the  wings  is  covered  on  the  front  side  by  a  head,  mounted 
medallion- like,  and  the  back  may  be  covered  by  the  spread  tail  of  a 
bird.  Whole  mounted  birds  with  spread  wings  in  a  flat  position  make 
an  attractive  ornament.  Birds  with  pretty  outlines  and  rich  colors  can 
be  wired  as  in  mounting  birds  with  spread  wings,  and  fastened  against 
the  wall  bracket-like,  with  wings  raised  straight  up  and  nearly  meeting 
at  the  back.  The  head  may  front,  being  pressed  back  closely  to  the 
wings. 


70  FANCY   WORK, 

A  variety  of  brackets  may  be  made  from  the  wings,  tails  and  heads 
of  birds.  Frames  of  thin  wood  are  substantial  foundations  and  origi- 
nality in  designing  may  be  practiced  to  almost  any  extent.  The  wings 
may  be  glued  on  these  foundations,  or  sewed  on  cloth  and  glued  after- 
ward. They  can  be  very  securely  fastened  by  using  dextrine,  which 
may  be  bought  at  any  drug  store,  and  is  much  better  than  glue. 

FOOT  RESTS. 

Get  a  common  camp-stool  and  have  a  carriage  painter  paint  it  with 
the  shiny  black  paint,  or  dull  lamp-black  color,  as  the  latter  looks  more 
like  ebony ;  make  the  handsomest  stripe  you  can  and  trim  the  ends 
with  heavy  fringe ;  lay  the  stripe  over  the  stool,  tacking  it  down  on  the 
two  edges,  letting  the  stripe  hang  nearly  half  way  to  the  floor,  and  you 
have  an  unique  stool  or  foot-rest.  This  is  decidedly  pretty  if  covered 
with  red  plush,  and  scarlet  and  gold  fringe  used. 

Or  this :  A  simple  foot-rest  cover  is  made  by  taking  a  strip  of  the 
worsted  and  silk  goods  in  gay  stripes  ;  on  each  side  of  this  a  band  of 
black  velvet,  feather-stitched  with  gold  silk,  and  on  each  edge  of  this  a 
band  of  bright  cherry  plush. 

KNIFE  AND  FORK  CASE. 

Wash  leather  and  flannel  or  cashmere  are  the  materials.  For  the 
inside,  cut  a  piece  of  wash  leather  twenty  inches  wide  and  twenty-four 
inches  long,  shaped  at  one  end  with  the  corners  cut  off ;  then  cut  a 
similar  piece  in  cashmere  or  flannel  and  ornament  with  a  cross-stitch 
border  all  round ;  bind  the  leather  and  cashmere  together  with  a  nar- 
row ribbon.  Sew  a  strip  of  embroidery  down  the  center  of  the  inside, 
stitching  it  across  at  intervals  to  form  loops  through  which  to  pass  the 
knives,  etc.  The  two  pieces  fold  over  the  sides,  and  the  case  is  fastened 
with  a  strap  and  button. 

LAUNDRY  PINCUSHIONS. 

A  laundry  pincushion  can  be  made  by  taking  silk  or  satin  and  hav- 
ing printed  on  it  a  laundry  list.  Give  a  complete  list  for  the  room  as 
well  as  personal  wear,  and  this  will  save  the  trouble  of  ever  writing  out 
a  list.  After  writing  a  list  of  the  articfes,  as  collars  for  the  first  line, 
have  the  numbers  from  one  to  twelve  printed  on  the  first  line  and  after 
that  ditto  the  numbers  all  the  way  down,  print  the  numbers  in  columns, 
and  if  the  owner  has  one  collar  in  wash,  put  a  pin  under  No.  i ;  if  hve, 
a  pin  under  No.  5.  This  cushion  is  made  square,  very  full,  quite 
large  and  the  underside  of  the  same  material  as  the  top ;  if  a  pleating 
of  wide  satin  ribbon  is  used  for  the  edge  the  lining  will  not  show ;  but 
prettier  yet  is  a  twisted  cord  of  chenille  around  the  edge  with  tassels  of 
the  same  at  the  corners. 


NOVELTIES.  71 

LAMBREQUIN  POINTS  AND  VALANCES. 

Take  the  length  around  your  bracket  of  broadcloth  or  other  heavy 
material  and  cut  either  in  one  long  point  to  the  center  or  several 
lambrequin  points ;  it  the  former,  arrange  a  bunch  of  flowers  in  the 
center,  with  sprays  reaching  each  way.  Buy  the  small  applique  figures 
(which  come  by  the  dozen),  and  leaves,  making  the  vine  of  embroid- 
ery silk  ;  also,  many  of  the  leaves  of  the  clouded  silk.  Then  sew  on,  not 
around  the  edge,  but  by  barring  the  flowers  with  the  gayest  kind  of 
silk,  the  greatest  contrast  often  making  the  prettiest  effect.  The  flowers 
can  often  be  cut  and  put  together  differently. 

This  is  also  a  pretty  one :  Take  scarlet  velveteen  and  cut  in  points, 
the  largest  in  the  center,  gradually  making  smaller  toward  the  ends. 
In  each  point  place  an  oak  leaf  of  black  velvet,  grading  them  in  size 
according  to  the  points  ;  vein  the  leaves  with  gold  colored  embroidery 
silk  and  button  hole  stitch  them  on  with  black,  as  it  gives  a  pasted  on- 
look  to  use  the  gold  color  round  the  edges.  Make  tassels  of  black  and 
scarlet  chenille  with  a  few  threads  of  gold  silk  for  each  point.  AH 
points  are  ornamented  with  a  great  many  small,  full  tassels  that  look 
almost  like  inverted  fans  and  harmonize  perfectly  with  the  embroidered 
fans  among  wM^  they  are  interspersed.  A  beautiful  lambrequin  in 
olive  and  turquoise  blue  has  two  rows  of  these  tassels  and  three  of 
wrought  fans,  artfully  arranged  in  a  Japanese  pattern.  Another, 
intended  for  a  bracket,  is  of  strainer  cloth  worked  in  peacock  feathers 
and  fringed  with  linen  and  worsted. 

Irish  guipure  laces,  four  or  six  inches  deep,  with  square  points,  make 
very  pretty  lambrequins,  or  shelf  covers,  if  lined  with  silesia  or  silk.  Get 
linen  thread  and  tie  a  heavy  fringe  in  each  point.  The  linen  can  be 
purchased  at  the  places  where  it  is  sold  for  macrame  lace  making,  and 
the  effect  is  nearly  as  pretty  as  the  linen  lace  mentioned. 

Satin  is  also  used  as  valances  for  mantels,  with  the  cretonne  figures 
pasted  on  smoothly,  though  if  the  stems  are  outlined  with  split  zephyr 
and  the  edges  closely  button-holed  with  silk,  it  gives  the  effect  of  solid 
embroidery.  Many  of  the  new  fringes  are  only  put  on  a  band  of  velvet 
or  plush,  and  put  straight  around  the  mantels.  Soft  gray  and  blue 
sateen  is  very  pretty  and  harmonizes  with  many  home-furnishings  bet- 
ter than  black. 

NOVELTIES. 

Eitibrozdered  Traveli7ig  Bag. — Work  on  Java  worsted  canvas  with 
embroidery  silk.  Upon  one  side  initials;  the  other  side  any  suitable 
pattern.     They  can  be  made  up  at  any  trunk  establishment. 

Umbrella  Case. — Of  gray  canvas  embroidered  with  split  black  filo- 
selle ;  straps  of  pale  fawn  colored  leather  and  steel  buckles  to  fasten 
together. 


72  FANCY  WORK. 

Chair  Pillow,  or  Bolster. — They  are  hung  on  the  top  of  a  large  chair 
by  a  cord,  and  form  a  pleasant  support  for  the  head.  The  covering  is 
usually  knitted.  The  required  size  is  about  sixteen  inches  long  and 
sixteen  inches  wide.  First  make  your  bolster  cover,  and  stuff  in  any 
way  you  choose.  Knit  a  cover  in  any  fancy  stitch,  in  shaded  wool ; 
gaiher  the  ends  and  make  up  round;  put  tassels  of  the  shaded  wool, 
with  cord,  on  each  end. 

Skavzjig  Cases. — Cut  in  the  shape  of  a  good  sized  shield  four  pieces 
of  card  board,  cover  two  with  silk  on  one  side  and  two  with  velvet ; 
embroider  the  upper  sides  with  a  vine  in  gold  cord  and.  colored 
flosses.  Cut  out  a  monogram  of  velvet,  fasten  the  edge  down  with 
gold  cord,  lay  on  and  sew  over  and  over  with  yellow  floss.  Put  a 
velvet  and  silk  shield  together,  overhand  around  and  finish  with  gold 
cord.  Cut  and  pink,  colored  tissue  paper  and  fasten  in  with  ribbon, 
drawn  through  ;  make  ends  one-quarter  of  a  yard  and  tie  to  hang  up  by. 

Blotters. — Made  of  a  piece  of  crash  or  velvet  with  a  design  of  pansies 
or  forget-me-nots  worked  in  crewels,  lined  with  thin  silk,  bound,  with 
blotting  paper  fastened  inside  by  means  of  an  elastic  cord,  are  very  neat. 

Knittifig  Fin  Sheath. — Take  two  oak  galls,  pierce  a  hole  through 
each,  making  it  large  enough  to  hold  the  points  of  four  pins ;  through 
these  holes  pass  a  white  silk  elastic  measuring  about  six  inches,  fasten 
at  each  end  under  a  bow  of  ribbon  and  tie  another  ribbon  bow  in  the 
center. 

Napkin  Rings. — Take  a  piece  of  canvas  the  size  of  an  ordinary  nap- 
kin ring,  work  with  beads  or  worsted  in  bright  colors  the  pattern  you 
prefer,  then  line  with  silk-covered  cardboard  and  bind  the  edges  with 
bright  ribbons  of  a  color  matching  the  embroidery.  One  end  of  the 
canvas  is  cut  in  points  or  scallops,  and,  when  rolled  up  and  sewed 
tightly,  overlaps  the  other.  Initials  may  be  worked  on  these  napkin 
rings. 

A  Novel  Ottoman. — Take  a  tobacco  drum,  the  kind  that  smoking 
tobacco  comes  in ;  get  one  as  high  as  you  can ;  pad  the  cover  ;  put 
plainly  over  the  top  and  sides  a  cover  of  cretonne,  damask,  rep  or 
chintz ;  tack  this  down  smoothly  with  tiny  tacks ;  then  put  a  pleating 
of  the  goods  or  of  wide  gimp  around  the  edge  of  the  cover,  and  around 
the  bottom  where  the  hoop  comes ;  put  a  tassel  on  each  side  and  you 
have  an  odd  and  beautiful  ottoman,  just  the  right  height  for  your  feet 
when  you  are  weary. 

Suspenders  for  gentlemen  are  made  of  embroidered  silk  or  velvet 
bands,  or  of  canvas  worked  or  embroidered  in  worsted,  silk  or  chenille ; 
plainer  ones  can  be  made  of  brocaded  satin  ribbons,  but  it  costs  quite 
a  sum  of  money  to  mount  them  and  it  must  be  done  very  neatly  or  they 
will  be  bungling. 

Pockets  of  Silk  for  large  letters  are  embroidered  and  have  a  painted 


PATCH  WORK.  73 

design  on  satin  and  a  lace  top  full  and  high.  Knapsacks  of  leather  to 
hang  on  the  wall  are  beautifully  ornamented,  and  are  for  newspapers. 
Vine  leaves,  behind  which  to  slip  combs  and  hair-pins,  are  of  velvet, 
embroidered  in  shaded  silk,  and  have  a  Bristol  board  back. 

Music  Stands  are  fourteen  inches  long,  seventeen  inches  deep,  and 
the  material  may  be  of  canvas,  crash,  serge  or  flannel,  embroidered  in 
outline,  with  neutral  tints,  in  design  of  vines,  or  classical  figures  of 
men  and  women  typical  of  music  ;  or  the  word  "  Music  "  in  old  English 
letters,  the  owner's  monogram  in  gold  thread  or  silk,  and  the  edges 
finished  with  gold  or  twisted  cord  to  match  the  material. 

An  Ingenious  Housewife  is  made  of  rows  of  the  ordinary  Dunstable 
straw,  in  the  form  of  a  shoe ;  the  sole  can  be  turned  down,  showing  a 
few  leaves  of  flannel  for  needles  and  bodkin,  the  cotton  and  thimble 
finding  a  place  in  the  upper  portion  of  the  shoe. 

Silk  Purses  are  very  convenient  for  gentlemen  to  carry  in  the  pocket. 
Herring  bone  purses  only  require  two  needles  for  the  knitting.  Cast  on 
eighty-eight  stitches,  begin  with  the  silk  forward,  slip  a  stitch,  knit  a 
stitch,  pass  the  first  over  the  second,  knit  a  stitch,  bring  the  silk  for- 
ward and  rib  the  rest.  When  this  is  done  the  silk  will  be  forward ; 
begin  again.  If  the  purse  is  required  to  be  longer,  cast  on  as  many 
stiches  as  are  necessary,  only  it  must  be  a  number  which  can  be  divided 
by  four. 

A  Jewel  or  Handkerchief  Box  is  made  by  taking  an  ordinary  box, 
and  covering  it  with  black  satin  ;  paint  on  the  lid  a  design  in  water  colors, 
havmg  the  principal  flowers  of  blue  and  crimson — poppies  and  blue- 
bells or  forget-me-nots  being  good  subjects.  Around  the  sides,  top  and 
bottom,  put  antique  lace  and  finish  the  edges  of  the  box  with  a  silk  cord 
corresponding  with  the  colors  of  flowers.  The  inside  of  the  box  is  lined 
with  quilted  satin,  and  a  quilting  of  ribbon  used  to  cover  the  unfinished 
edges.  For  the  feet  and  knobs  use  large  gilt  beads,  strung  on  coarse 
linen  thread,  and  a  tiny  bead  to  hold  the  thread  in  place. 

Sermon  Covers  for  clergymen  are  of  silk  or  velvet,  a  trifle  larger  than 
ordinary  sermon  paper,  lined  with  silk,  and  have  a  cross  or  monogram 
embroidered  or  braided  on  them.  A  bit  of  fine  elastic  should  be  inside, 
from  top  to  bottom  to  hold  the  leaves  in  place. 

PATCH  WORK. 

A  new  style  of  work  very  fashionable  and  much  displayed  at  expo- 
sitions, is  made  of  tiny  pieces  from  four  to  eight  inches  square,  of  cre- 
tonne, plush,  velvet,  silks,  or  anything  that  has  bright  colors  and  new 
designs.  These  are  pieced  into  spreads,  ottomans,  stand  covers,  foot 
rests,  sofa  pillows,  etc.  They  are  basted  together  and  stitched  with  the 
seam  on  the  right  side,  and  then  the  seam  is  pressed  open  and  covered 
with  a  narrow  band  of  velvet,  ribbon  or  braid  (according  to  material) 


74  FANCY   WORK, 

and  then  feather-stitched  down,  or  any  fancy  stitch  can  be  used  with 
colored  silks.  To  make  this  beautiful,  whatever  the  material  started 
with  it  must  be  carried  through  the  whole  work,  whether  chintz,  cre- 
tonne or  velvet.  As  many  colors  and  patterns  as  possible  must  be 
chosen  and  each  square  arranged  in  contrast ;  pleasing  contrasts — not 
violent  ones — that  is,  bright  red  must  not  be  put  against  bright  green. 
This  is  finished  on  the  edge  with  silk  bands  that  come  purposely  for 
these,  in  bright  Persian  colors,  and  is  called  Persian  work.  Heavy 
fringe  is  used  below  the  bands,  or  one  can  be  used  without  the  other. 

A  very  pretty  way  to  utilize  scraps,  odds  and  ends  of  silk,  is  to  make 
them  into  blocks  for  a  "  crazy  quilt."  All  that  is  necessary  for  this  is 
to  cut  square  pieces  of  dark  calico  and  baste  the  pieces  on  them  as 
they  happen  to  come — in  any  device  or  shape,  having  every  block  differ- 
ent, as  it  surely  will  be  if  they  are  pieced  in  the  same  shape  as  when 
given  to  the  quilt-maker.  Tiny  pieces,  only  inch-square  strips,  triangles, 
anything  and  everything  can  be  utilized.  Silk  and  velvet  are  the  pret- 
tiest, and  in  this  day  of  bright  ribbons  quite  easy  to  get. 

On  the  plain  piece  in  each  block  may  be  worked  an  emblem,  embroi- 
dered or  painted,  or  all  three  may  be  used  on  one  square.  The  small 
Japanese  handkerchiefs  give  odd  designs  ;  one  that  can  very  easily  be 
copied  is  a  spider  web,  and  caught  in  the  meshes  the  innocent  fly,  with 
the  hungry  spider  dropping  down  by  one  of  its  long,  almost  invisible 
threads,  ready  to  pounce  upon  it.  Another,  a  mallet  crossed  with  cro- 
quet balls  lying  near ;  a  bow  and  arrows,  and  target  with  the  arrows 
piercing  it ;  a  rake  and  hoe  with  handles  crossed ;  the  ever-present 
horseshoe  with  whip  near  it,  if  you  please ;  the  American  flag  with  its 
stars  and  stripes,  or  initials  and  monograms. 

These  quilts  should  be  lined  with  bright-colored  sateen  and  corded 
with  heavy  silk  cord  on  the  edge.  No  one  expects  much  use  of  these 
handsome  quilts,  but  they  are  very  handsome  to  lay  across  the  foot  of 
the  bed,  couch,  divan  or  even  down  the  back  of  an  easy  chair.  They 
are  not  extravagant,  either,  for  nearly  everyone  has  odd  pieces  of  ribbons 
or  parts  of  silk  dresses  that  would  be  good  for  no  other  purpose.  Light 
silks  may  be  colored  at  the  dyer's  in  any  of  the  bright  shades  one  chooses. 
It  matters  not  how  faded  or  old-fashioned  the  silk  may  be,  it  will  cer- 
tainly take  some  bright  and  pretty  shade. 

Chair  scarfs,  table-covers,  pincushions  and  scarf  bags  are  made  of 
these  blocks,  the  latter  put  together  with  a  satin  puffing  at  the  side  and 
the  shirred  top  with  draw  strings.  A  series  of  cushions  for  the  floor,  one 
piled  upon  another,  making  a  soft  and  yielding  ottoman,  is  very  hand- 
some made  in  the  way  described  above,  and  if  handsomely  corded  and 
lined,  with  tassels  on  each  corner,  cannot  be  equaled,  even  if  made  of  the 
best  plushes  or  velvets.  Of  course  one  wants  to  harmonize  the  colors 
and  be  careful  in  outlining  the  designs  on  the  blocks,  else  a  tawdry 
effect  will  be  produced  that  is  very  undesirable. 


PIN  CUSHIONS.  75 


PEN-WIPERS. 

A  novel  one  may  be  made  by  taking  the  small  fancy  baskets  intended 
for  hair  receivers,  and  putting  in  row  after  row  of  pinked  flannel  or 
broadcloth,  the  depth  of  the  basket,  and  in  the  center  a  china  doll,  with 
bright  sash  draped  around  the  shoulders,  a  la  Goddess  of  Liberty,  with 
a  liberty  cap  upon  her  head.  Or  a  grotesque  figure  may  be  dressed  and 
placed  in  the  center.  The  arms  are  intended  to  serve  the  purpose  of 
holding  a  pen.  The  doll  looks  very  pretty  in  the  center  of  all  these 
flutings  of  bright  flannel. 

A  parasol  one  is  of  bright-colored  silk,  attached  to  an  ivory  handle, 
and  filled  inside  with  cloth.  Another  is  made  of  rounds  of  wash-leather  ; 
the  outside  a  circle  of  dark  morocco,  with  a  floral  spray  painted  with 
gold  or  mixed  colors. 

A  new  and  odd  one  is  the  Chinese.  Take  a  diminutive  Chinese  fan 
with  a  long  handle,  cover  the  fan  with  silk  on  both  sides,  cut  several 
pieces  of  black  cloth  and  fasten  each  side  of  the  fan,  pink  the  edges  of 
cloth  for  the  outside,  cover  with  silk  and  put  a  Chinese  picture  in  the 
center ;  to  complete,  put  on  a  few  pretty  light  feathers  turning  toward  the 
handle,  and  finish  off  with  a  fine  cord  and  small  tassels. 

PIANO  COVERS. 

A  very  handsome  sunflower  piano  cover  is  made  by  taking  dark  blue 
cloth,  Indian  red,  or  maroon  broad  cloth,  and  working  with  a  border  of 
sunflowers.  This  is  worked  on  a  band  of  black  cloth  inserted  between 
narrow  bands  of  the  material  used  for  the  cover.  Small  sunflowers  cut 
out  of  yellow  felt,  the  centers  of  brown  plush,  are  appliqued  in  a  con- 
tinuous vine  upon  the  border,  with  stalks  worked  in  brown  crewel  and 
foliage  cut  from  shades  of  green  cloth  on  serge  and  applied.  The  edges 
can  be  worked  in  loose  bultpn-hole  stitch  in  crewel  of  the  same  yellow, 
which,  at  a  little  distance,  can  hardly  be  distinguished.  The  leaves  may 
be  veined  and  edged  with  a  light  or  dark  green  crewel  in  contrast  with 
the  ground  of  the  leaf.  The  same  idea  may  be  carried  out  in  other 
flowers  or  in  vines  either  embroidered  or  painted. 

PIN  CUSHIONS. 

A  pretty  one  for  library  or  office  is  in  the  shape  of  a  drum,  with  two 
pins  with  ornamental  heads  for  sticks.  The  large  gilt  ones  will  do  for 
this  and  they  should  be  crossed  on  the  top.  Take  a  straight  piece  of  stuff 
one  and  one-half  inches  high  and  four  and  one-quarter  inches  wide, 
and  two  rounds  measuring  one  and  one-quarter  inches.  Sew  and  stuff 
with  bran  emery  powder.  The  top  and  bottom  are  covered  with  a  piece 
of  white  silk ;  the  edge  is  ornamented  with  a  little  band  of  velvet,  on 
the  cross  (same  as  a  drum  is  often  painted),  with  stitches  of  gold- 


76  J^AA'CV  WORK. 

colored  silk.  Black  and  white  pins  are  placed  in  close  rows  and  lines 
all  over  the  sides  of  the  drum — in  imitation  of  the  cord  that  crosses 
from  top  to  bottom.  Look  at  a  drum  and  you  will  see  where  the  pins 
should  go. 

A  pretty  one  is  made  in  this  way :  Take  a  piece  of  satin  a  little  over 
a  foot  square  for  top  of  cushion ;  paint  a  bouquet  in  each  comer  and 
connect  them  by  a  small  wreath  ;  cut  a  slipper  of  satin  ;  paint  flowers 
or  a  monogram  on  the  toe  and  a  wreath  around  the  heel ;  line  and  fasten 
to  the  sole ;  sew  the  slipper  to  the  square  of  satin  (by  the  sole)  so  the 
stitches  will  not  show.  Make  the  cushion,  using  the  satin  for  the  top 
and  finishing  with  a  quilling  of  lace  around  the  cushion  and  very  nar- 
row lace  around  the  top  of  the  slipper. 

SCENT  SACHETS. 

Dainty  ones  are  made  of  silk  and  satin  in  the  shape  of  bags,  triangles, 
squares,  boots  and  stockings.  A  piece  of  pale  pink  or  blue  satin,  a 
quarter  of  a  yard  square,  is  doubled  one  way  and  one  of  the  sides  has 
painted  or  embossed  daisies.  The  side  seam  is  then  sewed  ;  the  bag 
thus  made  is  filled  out  roundly  with  cotton  batting  and  sachet  powder; 
the  edge  at  the  top  is  turned  in  about  an  inch  and  a  half,  gathered, 
edged  with  lace  and  tied  up  with  pink  or  blue  ribbon.  To  make  a 
small  one,  take  a  strip  of  ribbon  a  quarter  of  a  yard  long,  double  it 
up  from  the  center,  and  sew  the  edges  over  and  over. 

Those  for  the  top  of  a  trunk  or  the  drawer  of  a  dressing-case  are 
made  of  large  silk  or  muslin  cases,  quilted.  Pocket  sachets,  quilted, 
and  trimmed  with  gold  twist  or  cord,  make  pretty  presents.  A  glove 
sachet  should  be  the  length  and  width  of  an  ordinary  pair  of  gloves. 
It  must  be  quilted  and  edged  with  narrow  silk  cord,  with  a  small  loop 
at  each  comer.  A  necktie  sachet  is  made  narrow,  and  just  long  enough 
to  hold  an  evening  tie  folded  in  half.  Both  should  be  slightly  scented. 
Handkerchief  sachets  are  made  by  quilting  squares  of  silk  or  satin  in 
tiny  diamonds,  and  folding  the  corners  over  like  an  envelope,  embroider- 
ing the  initials  in  two  corners  and  tiny  forget-me-nots  in  one,  lilies- 
of-the-valley  in  the  other.  The  edges  may  be  finished  with  pleatings  of 
satin  ribbons  ;  an  edge  of  swan's  down  is  elegant  and  not  expensive,  or 
a  row  of  pea-fowl  feathers  is  rich  and  Oriental;  also,  a  cording  of 
chenille  makes  a  pretty  finish. 

SIDEBOARD   CLOTHS. 

For  a  cloth  where  a  rich  effect  of  color  is  required  nothing  looks  bet- 
ter than  the  old  German  or  Russian  cross-stitch  work,  with  the  patterns 
executed  in  blue  and  rich  ingrain  cottons.  These  colors  are  best  as 
they  are  absolutely  fast  colors,  and  the  old  cloths,  those  copying  the  old 
styles,  were  always  worked  in  these  shades.     By  using  strips  of  silk 


SMOKING  CAPS.  77 

Turkey  twill  or  blue  linen  between  the  borders,  a  bolder  and  richer 
appearance  is  obtained.  Another  style  is  to  work  on  damask  borders 
of  grotesque  animals  with  curling  tails,  similar  to  those  seen  in  twelfth 
century  missals.  These  are  very  uncommon,  and  look  well  worked  in 
linen  threads  or  washing  silks.  There  are  also  handsome  cloths  in 
which  a  flowing,  conventional,  rather  heavy  pattern  is  worked  on  a  band 
of  blue  linen  in  white  linen  thread.  The  band  used  is  herring-bone,  like 
the  old  Cretan  work.  Sometimes  the  family  motto  is  worked  all  along 
the  front  of  the  cloth.  This  is  ornamental  and  does  not  look  obtrusive, 
when  the  words  are  written  diagonally  and  separated  by  lines  and  some 
ornamental  device.  To  finish  the  covers  the  sides  are  hemmed  in  blind 
stitch,  and  the  ends  heavily  fringed  by  knotting  in  the  colors  used  in 
the  embroidery. 

SOILED  LINEN  RECEPTACLES. 

A  bag  for  collars  and  cuffs  is  made  by  cutting  out  three  pieces  of 
ecru  Turkish  toweling  and  slanting  to  a  point  at  each  end.  Work 
half  an  inch  from  the  edge  a  vine  of  zcarlet  zephyr  in  a  coarse  feather 
stitch  ;  over  this  a  thread  of  gold-colored  filling  silk,  so  that  the  gold 
lays  on  top  of  the  scarlet ;  hem  the  edges  ;  crotchet  a  shell  of  scarlet 
around  the  pieces,  sew  them  together,  sides  and  bottom,  and  put  a  large 
tassel  at  the  bottom,  or  cord  and  balls ;  also  hang  up  with  the  latter. 

Or  this :  Take  a  pretty  design  of  cretonne,  or  silk  patchwork,  and 
put  it  on  a  lining  of  cambric  ;  then  a  band  of  inch  and  a  half  ribbon 
or  velvet  is  feather-stitched  around  this  ;  make  two  sides  of  this  ;  sew 
it  together  like  a  bag ;  run  a  satin  ribbon  in  at  the  top  to  hang  it  on  the 
dressing-case  by.  A  band  of  the  ribbon  must  be  sewed  on  at  the  top 
to  run  the  ribbon  or  sheer-string  in. 

SMOKING  CAPS. 

A  smoking  cap  of  violet  or  brown  velvet,  or  in  any  color  to  match 
the  dressing-gown  or  smoking  jacket,  is  made  by  taking  a  circular 
piece  of  cloth  and  pleating  it  in  tiny  pleats  around  the  edge,  and 
put  inside  a  band  to  fit  the  head.  The  band  and  top  may  be  braided, 
embroidered,  or  worked  in  applique,  with  button  in  center  of  the 
crown.  This  is  lined  with  silk  and  the  top  made  fiat,  like  the  caps  that 
French  cooks  and  bakers  wear.  Cut  this  all  in  paper  first,  getting  it 
just  to  suit,  before  cutting  the  velvet  or  broadcloth.  Another  pretty 
one  is  of  turban  shape,  like  the  Polish  skating  cap,  with  a  long  point 
drooping  from  the  crown,  with  a  heavy  chenille  tassel,  or  cutting  the 
rim  wide  in  round  points,  and  puffing  the  crown  on,  laying  the  pleats 
between  each  point.  The  rim  may  be  corded  with  chenille,  or  embroi- 
dered. 


78  FANCY  WORK. 


SOFA  PILLOWS. 


An  embroidered  one  is  of  black  satin,  with  wheat  heads,  poppies, 
daisies  and  grasses  embroidered  mostly  in  Kensington  stitch,  and  fin- 
ished on  the  edge  with  a  cord  of  gold  and  cardinal.  A  more  service- 
able pillow  for  a  sofa  or  lounge  can  be  made  by  crotcheting  four  stripes 
— two  black  and  two  cardinal,  in  Afghan  stitch.  Join  the  stripes 
together  in  the  usual  way  by  crotcheting  a  cord  on  the  right  side.  The 
under  side  is  pretty  done  in  one  block  of  cardinal,  eighty  stitches  wide 
and  fourteen  inches  long. 

A  pretty  one  is  of  green  rep :  Take  a  square  and  sew  in  the  center  a 
large  piece  of  Penelope  canvas ;  darn  in  this  your  initial  with  gold 
filling  silk.  Use  eight  of  the  fine  squares,  and  use  the  triple  cross 
stitch  in  order  to  have  the  initial  large  enough ;  or,  instead  of  taking 
fine  canvas,  use  the  very  coarse,  and  then  cross  the  stitches  over  only 
one  square,  the  same  as  on  Java  canvas.  When  the  initial  is  finished, 
pull  out  the  canvas,  and  you  will  have  a  beautiful  letter  on  the  rep  ; 
then  put  two  rows  of  two-inch  wide  gold  and  green  gimp  around  the 
outside  of  the  initial,  and  one  on  the  edge  of  the  lining  (so  as  not  to 
show  the  lining  from  the  outside);  then  put  two  green  and  gold  tassels 
on  each  corner.  Any  color  can  be  used  instead  of  the  green,  scarlet 
and  gold  making  a  very  pretty  one. 

SPECTACLE  OR  KEY  CASE. 

Cut  a  paper  pattern  shaped  like  the  sole  of  a  shoe,  as  long  as  a  pair 
of  spectacles,  to  that  point  in  the  sole  which  will  allow  about  one-fifth 
of  the  toe  to  turn  over  as  a  flap.  From  this  cut  a  back  of  enameled 
leather  and  a  front  of  velvet,  satin  or  silk,  embroidering  the  latter  in  a 
tasteful  design  with  beads  or  silk  embroidery ;  lay  a  thin  layer  of  cot- 
ton between  this  and  a  lining  of  silk,  both  cut  of  similar  shape ;  sew 
closely  together  and  bind  with  narrow  ribbon  of  some  pretty  color ; 
suspend  by  two  long  wide  ribbons,  fastened  with  a  bow  or  rosette  at 
the  top,  behind  which  secure  a  large  hook,  fastening  an  eye  to  the  belt 
or  waist  cord  of  the  dress  to  receive  it.  Should  this  case  be  desired 
for  a  key  bag  it  may  be  made  rather  wider  and  not  quite  so  long. 

TABLE  COVERS. 

Table  cloths  of  black  cashmere,  with  a  broad  border  of  pale  blue, 
edged  on  both  sides  with  a  gold  braid  nearly  an  inch  wide,  are  very 
ornamental ;  or  the  cloth  of  a  pale  color  and  the  border  of  black,  or 
else  trimmed  with  a  stripe  of  vines.  These  table  cloths  need  no 
fringes.     The  border  should  be  from  six  to  eight  inches  deep. 

Odd  bits  of  cloth  maybe  used  for  the  border  of  a  table  cover  by  cut- 
ting them  into  a  square  form,  turning  the  edges  down  all  around,  and 


TABLE  COVERS.  79 

hiding  the  stitches  with  fine  Russian  braid  of  any  color  preferred. 
Then  place  them  diamond  wise  on  the  cover :  that  is,  with  a  point  at 
the  top.     Arrange  the  colors  tastefully,  and  the  effect  will  be  good. 

A  table-cover  worked  with  border  entirely  in  feather-stitch  has  quite 
an  oriental  appearance.  The  foundation  may  be  of  black  cloth,  with 
several  colors  of  worsted  braid  feather-stitched  on,  with  contrasting 
sill<,  crossing  at  the  corners,  forming  a  block ;  the  edge  may  be  simply 
pinked  or  notched.  A  space  must  be  left  outside  the  border  about  the 
same  depth  as  the  border.  Small  covers  may  be  chain-stitched  in 
solid,  close  work  in  Grecian  patterns  or  arabesque. 

Another  way  :  Take  black,  red  and  white  flannel ;  the  black  for  the 
center,  the  red  next  to  the  black,  and  the  white  for  the  border,  and  join- 
ing them  by  lapping  the  edge  of  one  a  very  little  way  over  the  other, 
proceed  to  chain-stitch  the  whole  with  different  colored  silks.  These 
pieces  may  be  straight,  or  cut  diamond  shape.  A  fan  may  beappliqued 
or  embroidered  in  each  corner,  with  a  small  border  of  them,  one  over- 
lapping the  edge  of  the  other,  or  two  in  the  corner  with  the  handles 
crossed. 

This  is  a  very  handsome  one :  Make  the  center  of  a  rich  crimson- 
colored  cloth  ;  trim  with  a  border  of  old-gold-colored  silk  damask  eight 
inches  wide  ;  embroider  a  vine  of  flowers  and  leaves  in  point  russe  and 
tent  stitch  with  pale  red  silk  in  two  shades  and  with  gold  thread.  For 
the  center  of  the  flowers  sew  on  gold  cord  and  dark  red  filling  silk,  with 
split  silk  of  the  same  color.  Cover  the  seam,  made  by  setting  on  the 
border,  with  old-gold-colored  silk  braid,  worked  on  with  rows  of  tent 
stitch  in  dark  red  silk.  A  cheaper  cover  can  be  made  by  using  a  center 
of  double-faced  cotton  flannel,  a  center  of  olive  and  a  border  of  red, 
with  worsted  braid  stitched  on  with  yellow  silk  to  hide  the  seams.  Fin- 
ish with  wool  fringe  or  a  cord  and  tassels. 

A  nice  way  to  use  up  odds  and  ends  in  table  covers  is  to  cut  them 
into  a  square  form,  turn  the  edges  down  all  round  and  hide  the  stitches 
with  fine  Russian  braid — either  white,  black  or  yellow.  Then  place 
them  diamond-wise  on  the  cloth,  that  is  with  a  point  at  the  top.  Ar- 
range the  colors  with  ease,  lapping  one  over  the  other,  and  the  effect 
is  good.  Another  way  is  to  cut  out  several  into  the  semblance  of  small 
hearts ;  put  them  over  cardboard,  first  tacking  the  scraps  on,  then  but- 
ton-holing the  edge  with  yellow  filoselle.  When  several  different  col- 
ored ones  are  ready,  arrange  them  on  the  border  in  groups  of  three ; 
fasten  and  make  a  chain  stitch  from  each  up  to  a  point,  as  if  each  were 
hanging  from  a  string ;  and  last  of  all,  at  the  point  of  the  three  strings 
sew  on  a  little  bow,  the  same  color  as  the  chain  stitching,  and  you  have 
tiny  bunches  of  hearts  hanging  from  a  bow.  These  of  different  colons, 
at  equal  distances,  are  quaint  and  pretty. 

There  is  a  new  work,  which  consists  of  scraps  of  all   kinds  being 


80  FANCY  WORK. 

appliqued  on  serge  and  ornamented  with  colored  silks,  in  imitation  of 
Eastern  work.  Stars,  circles,  and  all  other  sorts  of  shapes  are  brought 
into  use.  If  the  pieces  of  cloth  are  large  enough,  cut  them  in  squares, 
and  work  a  flower  in  crewels  on  silk  in  each.  Cloth  cut  out  in  the  form 
of  ordinary  leaves,  ivy  or  vine  leaves,  appliqued  on  with  long,  showy 
stitches  in  colored  silks,  veined  with  silks  and  laid  on  a  bright-colored 
ground,  has  a  pretty  effect. 

A  pretty  fringe  for  felt  or  broadcloth  covers,  is  made  by  taking  the 
same  cloth,  or  a  contrasting  color  (same  material),  six  inches  deep,  and 
basting  or  sewing  it  on  the  wrong  side  with  invisible  stitches.  Then 
take  sharp  scissors  and  slash  it  into  almost  invisible  strips  to  the  depth 
of  six  inches ;  according  to  the  size  of  spread  have  the  depth  of  the 
fringe — and  you  will  have  a  double  row  of  handsome  heavy  fringe,  and 
with  but  little  expense.  Above  this  work  a  vine  of  flowers  in  crewel 
embroidery  or  feather-stitch  on  a  band  of  plush  or  velvet,  with  con- 
trasting silks,  or  a  flowered  strip  of  cretonne.  Corners  of  plush,  five 
or  six  in  a  corner,  of  contrasting  colors,  feather-stitched  with  silk,  are 
also  pretty. 

TEA  COSIES. 

Take  a  yard  of  black  satin,  double  it  and  cut  it  in  the  shape  of  a  half 
moon.  About  an  inch  from  the  edge  have  stamped  for  working,  a  nar- 
row half  wreath  of  pansies  or  other  small  flowers,  and  in  the  center  a 
bunch  of  the  same  flowers.  Cut  four  pieces  of  cloth  or  thick  flannel 
the  same  size  as  the  satin  ;  sew  two  pieces  across  the  bottom  or  straight 
edges  and  lay  wadding  between  these  pieces  of  flannel  until  about  two 
inches  thick ;  then  sew  the  circular  edges  together ;  fix  the  other  pieces 
of  flannel  in  the  same  way ;  line  these  half-moon  cushions  with  some 
pretty  satin  or  silk  and  sew  the  circular  edges  together.  It  forms  a  sort 
of  wadded  cap  or  helmet,  over  which  the  embroidered  black  satin,  being 
sewed  in  the  same  manner,  is  slipped  and  finished  with  cord,  with  loops 
at  the  top  to  raise  it  up  by.  These  are  very  pretty  made  of  cloth  and 
braided,  and  are  slipped  over  the  tea-pot  to  keep  the  tea  warm. 

TIDIES. 

A  pretty  one  is  made  of  white  dice  canvas,  which  is  canvas  woven  in 
squares  like  a  checker-board.  On  each  of  these  squares  is  a  figure  of 
fruit  or  flowers  in  crewel  embroidery.  On  one  square  is  a  bunch  of 
cherries,  on  another  a  bunch  of  grapes,  another  a  pansy,  another  a  but- 
tercup, and  so  on  till  each  square  is  filled. 

A  very  pretty  one  is  made  by  dividing  a  square  of  strainer  cloth  into 
two  parts,  inclosing  the  upper  with  bands  of  garnet  velvet  stitched  with 
orange,  working  a  flower  pattern  upon  it  and  laying  a  band  of  orange 
silk  across  the  lower  half  and  putting  a  bright  little  Japanese  fan  across 
the  upper  half.     This  looks  like  a  Japanese  banner. 


WORK  AND  SCRAP  BASKETS.  81 

New  and  handsome  ones  are  of  coarse  linen ;  fringe  the  ends  and 
over-cast.  Work  a  design  down  the  center  with  crewels  and  filling 
tioss.  Put  satin  ribbon  on  each  edge  an  inch  and  a  half  wide.  It  is 
prettier  feather-stitched  on  in  a  contrasting  color. 

TOBACCO    POUCHES. 

To  make  a  tobacco  pouch  for  grandpa,  who  smokes  a  pipe,  take  a 
•circular  piece  of  chamois  or  colored  leather,  and  make  a  casing  for  the 
strings  by  facing  it  in  the  inside  with  silk  and  stitching  it  in.  Draw  up 
the  bag,  laying  it  flat.  For  the  ornamentation,  cut  out  small  oval  pieces 
of  cloth  of  various  colors — red,  green,  blue,  drab,  etc.;  baste  them  upon 
the  bag,  sewing  them  down  with  button-hole  stitch,  done  in  different 
■colored  silks,  observing  previously  to  ornament  each  piece  with  a  tiny 
silk  spray,  and  working  each  piece  in  variegated  silks,  to  produce  an 
Oriental  effect.  Others  are  made  of  soft  kid,  cut  in  a  circle  and  bound 
with  ribbon,  embroidered  in  colored  silks  with  a  floral  design  and  mono- 
gram, or  Panama  or  Russian  canvas,  lined  with  India  rubber  cloth. 

WALL  POCKETS. 

A  great  variety  of  baskets  for  the  wall  are  made  of  willow,  straw  and 
silk,  and  are  ornamented  with  ribbons,  flowers,  crewel  work  and  dried 
grasses.  Straps  of  linen,  velvet,  canvas  or  satin  are  embroidered  for 
the  wall-basket  or  paper-holder.  These  may  be  appliqued  in  silks,  nar- 
row velvets  on  broad  bands,  or  narrow  strips  of  flowered  silk.  Satin- 
faced  and  brocaded  ribbons  are  run  through  work-baskets  and  waste- 
paper  baskets  which  brighten  them  up  wonderfully ;  also  bows  of  ribbon 
are  introduced  on  almost  every  piece  of  fancy  work.  The  straps  for 
paper-holders  are  used  on  carved  backs  of  wood,  and  have  slits  at  the 
top  and  bottom  for  the  ribbons  to  slip  through  and  hang  down ;  there  is 
rubber  tape  at  the  back;  and  as  the  papers  increase  the  rubber  stretches, 
making  the  straps  longer.  Those  who  cannot  feather-stitch  can  chain- 
•stitch  or  cross-stitch,  as  there  are  many  different  kinds  of  stitches  in 
fancy  work  of  this  kind. 

WORK  AND  SCRAP  BASKETS. 

Work  baskets  are  ornamented  with  clusters  of  great  acorns  in  olive, 
crimson  and  gold,  with  sprays  of  autumn  leaves.  These  acorns  are 
made  by  covering  molds  with  floss.  The  standing  work  baskets  can  be 
made  much  prettier  by  lining  them  with  satin  in  bright  colors,  adding 
bows  wherever  good  taste  demands ;  around  each  basket  on  the  inside 
put  a  quilling  of  narrow  ribbon,  and  on  the  outside  sew  a  row  of  heavy 
ball  fringe  of  bright,  velvety  colors. 

A  scrap-basket  may  be  interlaced  with  ribbon  or  narrow  bright  flow- 
•ered  stripes  of  cretonne ;  or  flannel  may  be  cut  in  lambrequin  points, 
6 


82  FANCY  WORK. 

with  applique  figures,  or  feather-stitched  with  bright  colored  silks.  On 
each  point  is  a  zephyr  ball  or  tassel.  The  points  are  very  pretty  if  sim- 
ply pinked.  A  bright  worked  stripe  is  often  put  around  the  top,  with 
or  without  the  lambrequin  points. 

WORK  APRON. 
Cut  an  apron  with  side  gores  round  the  corners,  and  cut  a  pocket  six 
inches  deep  and  twice  the  width  of  the-  apron.  Gather  this  at  the  bot- 
tom ;  shirr  the  top  with  a  shirr  string,  leaving  an  edge  about  an  inch 
deep  to  stand  up  as  a  ruffle ;  this  may  be  simply  hemmed,  bound  or 
trimmed  with  a  stripe.  The  pocket  and  the  bottom  and  sides  to  the 
top  of  the  pocket  are  sewed  in  a  seam  and  then  turned.  The  pocket 
may  button  on  the  top  with  two  button  and  button-holes ;  this  leaves 
one  large  pocket  and  three  divisions ;  a  smaller  one  at  the  top  is  con- 
venient for  the  thimble  and  thread  or  handkerchief.  When  one  is  knit- 
ting, darning  or  patching,  these  aprons  come  in  very  convenient,  or 
when  doing  fancy  work  they  are  handy  receptacles  for  the  work  and 
sewing  implements. 

WORK  BASKET  NOTES. 

A  handsome  lambrequin  can  be  made  for  a  smoking  table  by 
appliquing  pipes,  with  stems  crossed  in  the  corners,  and  any  fancy  bor- 
der, on  satin  or  broadcloth. 

Aprons  are  very  pretty  in  linen,  holland  or  crash,  worked  in  a  design 
of  poppies  and  corn-flowers,  v/ith  crewels. 

Crash  cushions  are  fashionable.  Some  have  a  circular  Japanese 
design  in  one  corner  only ;  others  are  made  of  light  green  and  other 
delicate  shades,  with  a  spray  of  japonica  across  them,  or  hops,  or  white 
narcissus. 

Scraps  of  silk  are  capable  of  being  made  into  very  gay  mantel  cloths 
by  being  cut  into  Vandykes  and  sewed  together  in  alternate  points,  say 
amber  and  black,  scarlet  and  black,  dark  blue  and  crimson.  The  seams 
should  be  followed  with  lines  of  feather-stitch  in  some  pretty  contrast- 
ing color.  Amber  silk  would  look  well  with  blue  and  crimson  or  scar- 
let and  black. 

Embroidered  towels  are  made  of  coarse  white  linen,  embroidered  on 
both  ends  with  a  border  in  cross  stitch,  worked  in  colored  cottons  and 
edged  with  coarse  linen  lace,  or  fringe  the  ends  and  knot.  The  sides 
of  the  towel  are  turned  down  for  a  hem  three-fourths  of  an  inch  wide, 
and  cross-stitched  down  with  colored  cotton  on  the  right  side. 

Take  bed-ticking  (red  striped)  and  embroider  the  white  stripes  with 
fancy  colored  silks ;  on  the  wide  red  stripes  briar-stitch  black  velvet ;  on 
narrow  red  stripes  sew  narrow  gilt  braid.  You  can  in  this  way  make 
lovely,  serviceable  table  covers,  sofa  cushions,  tobacco  pouches,  slipper- 
^ases  and  many  other  beautiful  articles  to  ornament  a  room. 


WOJ^K  BA  SKE  T  NO  TES.  83 

To  make  pretty  dessert  doylies.  Work  with  very  fine  scarlet  mark- 
ing cotton  in  one  corner  a  group  of  fruit  and  leaves  on  a  ground  of  gray 
damask,  or  coarse  plain  white  linen,  such  as  you  purchase  for  sheeting — 
three  and  one-quarter  yards  of  linen  make  twelve  napkins  and  four 
doylies.  Fringe  the  edge  and  work  a  feather  stitch  around  for  a 
border. 

Old  curtains  that  are  not  good  enough  to  hang  at  the  windows  can 
be  utilized  by  transferring  the  flowers  and  vines  to  borders  for  lambre- 
quins, dressing  tables,  work  stands  and  baby  baskets.  Arrange  the 
sprays  on  bands  of  satin  and  work  them  a  little  with  colored  silk,  or 
transfer  the  heavy  vines  to  plain  Swiss  muslin.  Coarse  musquito 
net  makes  effective  curtains  with  the  flowers  all  over  it  in  scrolling  pat- 
terns. 

Cretonne  stripes,  with  a  band  on  each  side  of  some  plain,  rich-colored 
material,  are  thrown  over  the  backs  of  chairs.  They  are  cut  pointed  at 
the  end,  with  one  tassel  or  three,  or  a  row  of  fringe  put  on  straight 
across,  to  hang  below  the  chair.  Flowers  of  cretonne  are  appliqued  on 
black  satin,  pink  or  red  roses,  being  one  of  the  handsomest  designs. 

A  lovely  pair  of  curtains  may  be  made  of  ordinary  fine  muslin, 
on  which  may  be  tastefully  grouped  birds,  flowers,  Watteau  shep- 
herds and  shepherdesses,  or  graceful  ferns,  peacocks,  oriental  foliage 
and  bright-hued  butterflies  cut  from  cretonne.  Cretonne  may  be  pur- 
chased in  great  variety  of  styles,  but  too  many  subjects  should  not  be 
introduced  into  one  piece  of  work.  The  flowers,  etc.,  are  appliqued  on, 
and  worked  in  colored  filoselles. 

To  make  pretty  napkins  for  spreading  over  dishes  on  the  table,  cut  a 
yard  of  "  bird's-eye  "  linen  into  eight  square  pieces,  fringe  one-half  an 
inch  deep,  overcast  with  red  marking  cotton,  coral  stitch  a  border  of 
same  or  work  a  sheaf  of  wheat,  a  monogram  or  initial  in  the  corner. 
These  brighten  up  a  table  wonderfully,  wash  well,  and  are  within  the 
reach  of  all. 

Pin  cushions  are  made  much  prettier  by  making  them  very  full, 
making  the  corners  long  and  pointed,  and  finishing  each  corner  with  a 
bow  of  ribbon,  in  which  lace  is  intermingled.  Point  d' esprit  lace  is 
very  pretty  for  fancy  work,  and  looks  very  much  like  the  breton,  but  is 
much  prettier. 

Simple  gifts  for  friends  can  be  of  silk  and  satin,  and  net  in  large  or 
small  pieces  as  may  be  convenient;  caps  with  the  edges  worked  in  col- 
ored silks ;  ties  for  the  throat ;  bracelets  and  necklets  of  silk  embroi- 
dered in  small  flowers  and  edged  on  each  side  with  narrow  black  or 
cream  lace ;  aprons  of  silk,  satin,  or  cashmere,  with  embroidered  pock- 
ets and  border  or  a  spray  in  one  corner ;  small  blotting-book  covers, 
with  a  spray  of  some  delicate  flower  worked  across  ;  letter-cases,  pin- 
cushions and  small  sachets  ;  hood  and  cuffs  to  be  put  on  to  any  dress  at 


84  FERNS. 

will ;  embroidering  the  back  of  silk  and  lace  mittens,  or  long  gloves,  or 
the  toes  of  satin  or  kid  slippers ;  cases  for  music,  cases  for  crewels  and 
so  on. 

WOVEN  SILK  STRIPES  AND  COVERS. 

Collect  every  scrap  of  silk,  whether  new  or  old,  pretty  or  homely, 
about  the  house.  If  you  have  light  silk  dresses  you  can  have  them 
colored.  Cut  them  in  strips,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  wide — it  is  a  mistake 
to  cut  them  too  wide,  some  use  them  half  an  inch  wide — then  sew 
them  carefully  together  the  same  as  for  carpet  rags. 

The  stripes  may  be  shaded  from  light  to  dark  with  a  "  hit-or-miss  " 
stripe  in  the  center,  or  the  whole  strip  may  be  "hit-or-miss"  and  may 
be  made  much  handsomer  by  care  being  taken  in  sewing  the  strips 
together.  Whether  the  strips  are  straight  or  bias,  or  cut  from  a  circle, 
they  can  be  sewn  together  and  woven  just  the  same. 

Weigh  the  balls  and  when  you  have  eleven  pounds  of  silk  send  them 
to  a  weaver.  The  usual  price  for  weaving  is  twenty- eight  cents  per 
yard.  This  will  give  eight  yards  of  material  thirty-five  inches  wide. 
The  woof  is  usually  of  linen  thread  and  is  scarcely  visible ;  but  if  the 
silk  is  very  nice  and  a  particularly  handsome  article  is  desired,  silk  woof 
is  the  most  desirable,  embroidery  or  knitting  silk  being  used.  These 
bands  are  used  for  curtain  valances,  long  curtains,  or  portieres ;  for 
mantel  valances,  chair  stripes,  table  scarfs,  etc.  Square  table  covers 
can  also  be  worn  in  this  way,  the  edge  finished  with  a  handsome  netted 
silk  fringe. 


FEKNS. 

OUT-DOOR  FERNERIES. 

There  are  many  plants  that  succeed  best  when  planted  among  rocks, 
and  for  their  accommodation  and  to  show  off  their  beauties  to  the 
greatest  advantage,  it  is  common  in  many  gardens  to  have  what  is 
called  a  "rockery."  This  is  made  of  a  collection  of  stones,  in  the 
rough  natural  state,  laid  up  without  much  order,  with  soil,  which  should 
be  concealed  as  much  as  possible  by  the  fragments  of  rocks.  This 
should  be  made  as  natural  as  possible ;  the  stones  of  which  it  is  com- 
posed, should  not  bear  the  marks  of  the  quarry  or  any  other  art.  For 
a  small  garden  one  collection  of  rocks  or  stone  with  a  walk  around  it, 
will  be  sufficient ;  but  when  a  person  has  some  fancy,  a  variety  of  beds 
or  collections  may  be  made  with  winding  walks  around  them,  which,  if 
relieved  with  some  dwarf  evergreen  shrubs,  may  be  made  to  show  off  a 
great  variety  of  dwarf  plants  to  the  very  best  advantage.  Rockeries 
should  be  conspicuous  for  natural  character.  No  appearance  of  art, 
and  no  approach  to  the  regularity  or  smoothness  proper  to  works  of 


OUT'DOOR  FERNERIES.  86 

art,  will  be  at  all  in  place  here.  The  surface  of  the  whole  cannot  be 
too  irregular,  or  too  variedly  indented  or  prominent.  Evergreen  shrubs 
of  low  growth  will  be  particularly  useful  in  giving  prominence  to  some 
portions  of  the  work ;  provision  will  therefore  have  to  be  made,  in  the 
placing  of  the  stones,  for  planting  a  few  shrubs  and  a  greater  number 
of  herbaceous  rock  plants  in  their  interstices,  which  should  be  left 
broader  or  smaller,  according  to  the  size  of  the  plant  that  may  be 
required  in  them. 

In  arranging  the  stones  they  should  be  laid  upon  their  broadest  or 
flat  sides,  with  the  outer  edges  slanting  downwards  rather  than  up- 
wards. Any  great  elevation  should  never  be  sought  in  small  rockeries. 
This  would  be  inconsistent  with  their  breadth  and  would  render  them 
too  prominent  and  artificial.  As  many  of  the  plants  succeed  best  in 
the  shade  a  portion  of  the  rock-work  should  be  partly  surrounded  with 
trees  or  shrubs,  that  they  may  derive  that  advantage.  Trillums,  orchis, 
cyprepediums  and  some  few  ferns,  and  a  great  variety  of  native  plants 
which  are  found  in  our  woods,  with  an  appropriate  soil,  would  flourish 
well  in  such  a  spot.  The  rockery  should  be  partly,  or  wholly,  concealed 
from  the  general  flower-garden  by  shrubs  or  trees.  It  may  be  ap- 
proached from  the  main  walk  under  a  rustic  arch,  mantled  with  climb- 
ers, or  through  a  winding  passage  among  evergreens. 

A  beautiful  and  luxuriant  group  of  ferns  may  be  had  for  the  entire 
summer  by  anyone  who  has  a  large  tree  or  shady  place  where  they  can 
be  planted.  If  there  is  a  wet  and  unsightly  place  that  can  never  be 
made  to  look  well,  all  the  better ;  choose  that  spot  for  your  ferns.  An 
airy  place,  shaded  by  the  house,  will  do  nearly  as  well.  To  prepare  a 
place  for  the  ferns  proceed  in  this  wise  :  Choose  a  bundle  of  stakes  two 
and  a  half  feet  long,  an  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter,  and  which  still 
retain  the  bark ;  drive  these  into  the  ground  in  a  circular  or  oblong 
form,  as  you  may  wish  the  bed  to  be  ;  the  stakes  may  stand  from  twelve 
to  eighteen  inches  above  the  ground  ;  now  weave  in  and  out  about  the 
stakes,  basket  fashion,  grape  vine  until  the  top  of  the  stakes  is  reached. 
You  then  have  what  appears  to  be  a  rustic  basket.  Fill  the  bottom 
with  sod,  or  earth  rubbish  of  various  sorts,  but  leave  room  enough  in 
the  top  for  a  good  layer  of  fresh  mold,  in  which  plant  the  ferns,  which 
may  be  taken  from  the  woods  as  soon  as  the  fronds  begin  to  peep  above 
the  ground. 

It  is  better  to  choose  the  ferns  from  a  plot  where  they  grow  thickly, 
and  take  them  up  so  that  they  may  be  as  little  divided  as  possible,  and 
with  plenty  of  soil  unbroken  about  the  roots.  Fill  your  baskets  full  of 
them,  and  if  you  water  them  well  you  will  have  a  thing  of  beauty  to 
gladden  your  eyes  and  cool  your  senses  during  all  the  warm  summer 
days.  The  basket  may  be  further  ornamented  by  slipping  seeds  of  the 
Cyprus  vine  or  morning  glory  between  the  interstices  of  the  grape  vine 


86  FERNS, 

into  the  soil.  They  will  sometimes  grow  right  merrily,  and,  if  trained 
about  the  basket,  beautify  and  illuminate  it  in  a  very  dainty  and  exqui- 
site fashion.  In  lieu  of  the  stakes  and  grape  vine  (wild  grape  vine  can 
nearly  always  be  procured  in  abundance)  a  basket  which  has  lost  its 
bottom  may  be  used,  which,  if  not  already  browned  by  exposure,  may 
be  painted  any  desirable  color.  If  the  fern  basket  is  sufficiently  pro- 
tected in  the  fall  with  leaves,  it  may  be  relied  upon  for  a  thrifty  crop  of 
ferns  the  following  summer. 

GROWING  FERNS  IN-DOORS. 

Most  ferns  grown  in-doors  are  raised  in  Wardian  cases.  A  simple 
one  may  be  made  by  taking  five  panes  of  glass  of  any  size  pleased ;  four 
to  form  the  sides,  one  for  the  top ;  fasten  the  glass  together  with  a 
light  wooden  frame ;  then  take  any  tin  dish,  Hke  a  baking  pan,  or  if 
round  a  tin  plate  or  jelly  cake  pan,  or  a  tin  dish  can  be  made  to  fit  for 
a  trifling  sum  of  money ;  paint  the  tin  green  on  the  outside.  Many 
people  have  what  are  called  "  fern  rooms,"  and  which  anybody  with 
taste  and  a  little  money  can  easily  make.  These  are  made  by  setting 
up  a  square,  five  feet  high,  of  glass  set  in  a  frame  work  of  wood  or  iron, 
and  of  which  -the  shape  best  sets  off  the  ferns.  These  are  kept  slightly 
moist  by  the  water  in  a  small  tank  of  tin  around  which  they  rise  or 
fall,  according  to  the  variety  to  which  they  belong,  and  has  for  its  sole 
ornament  these  tiny  feathery  ferns.  It  should  be  put  upon  rollers  so 
that  it  can  be  moved  from  room  to  room. 

Decayed  wood  (not  pine)  mixed  with  about  half  its  bulk  of  good 
fibrous  loam  from  an  old  pasture,  and  very  small  proportion  of  well- 
decayed  stable  manure,  makes  a  good  compost.  Now  collect  some 
pieces  of  broken  flower  pots,  or  still  better,  bits  of  marble,. granite  or 
any  stone  and  scatter  them  around  the  bottom,  placing  in  the  center 
some  moss-grown  stump  or  stick,  and  pile  the  stones  around  it;  then 
collect  from  the  woods,  ferns,  mosses,  partridge  vine  with  its  bright  red 
berries — any  plant  will  grow  in  these  ferneries  v/hich  can  be  found  in 
moist  places  in  the  woods ;  take  up  a  little  of  the  leaf  mold  in  which 
they  grow — they  need  but  little  soil — arrange  your  plants  spreading  the 
roots  carefully  over  the  stones,  scattering  a  little  leaf-mold  on  them, 
and  placing  your  mosses  around  the  whole.  The  tallest  plant  should 
be  placed  in  the  center  and  good  taste  shown  as  to  the  arrangement. 
A  small  piece  of  looking-glass  placed  in  the  bottom  and  the  edges  cov- 
ered with  moss  and  tiny  shells  will  prove  an  effective  miniature  lake. 

Before  placing  the  globe  or  glass  frame  over  the  fernery,  sprinkle  the 
plants  thoroughly,  then  cover  with  the  glass  and  let  it  remain  a  few 
days  in  the  shade.  Keep  them  in  a  shady  place  where  the  sun  touches 
them  but  a  short  time.  Do  not  water  them  too  often,  once  a  month  is 
su!"ficient  in  winter,  a  little  oftener  in  the  summer;  if  too  wet  they  wal 


UNIQUE  FERN  BASKETS,  87 

mould  and  die ;  when  there  is  but  little  moisture  on  the  glass  it  is  well 
to  raise  it  and  ascertain  if  it  is  dry.  The  dried  ferns  or  mosses  can  be 
removed  and  occasionally  a  new  bit  added.  Trailing  arbutus  and 
partridge  vines  will  blossom  in  ferneries.  Ivy  and  lycopodium  also 
grow  well,  but  the  rare  ferns  from  the  hot  houses  do  not  thrive  as  well 
as  those  from  the  woods.  A  very  pretty  ornament  can  be  made  for  the 
table  or  stand  by  taking  a  collection  of  ferns,  mosses,  maiden-hair  and 
long  sprays  of  the  partridge  berry,  and  placing  it  under  a  small  glass 
receiver.  These,  taken  up  carefully  with  the  moist  earth  clinging  to  the 
roots,  and  pressed  into  a  shallow  earthen  dish  with  a  small  wooden  cross 
covered  with  lichens  and  gray  moss,  and  the  vine  with  its  scarlet  ber- 
ries climbing  over  it,  makes  a  beautiful  and  always  pleasing  ornament. 

Ferns  are  easily  raised  from  seed.  Shallow  pans  of  very  sandy  soil 
should  be  procured,  and  filled  within  an  inch  of  the  rim.  The  seed 
should  be  grown  on  the  surface  of  the  soil,  watered  with  a  very  fine  rose 
(the  nozzle  of  a  watering-pot),  with  window-glass  placed  closely  over 
the  pans,  to  keep  moisture  in  and  insects  out,  and  the  pans  themselves 
set  in  a  temperature  of  50  deg.,  when  the  seeds  will  germinate  in  about 
two  months. 

Those  who  have  trouble  with  the  Wardian  fern  cases  do  not  under- 
stand managing  them  ;  put  a  layer  of  charcoal  on  the  bottom  for  drain- 
age, and  then  no  waste-pipe  and  faucet  are  necessary.  It  is  well  to 
sprinkle  fine  charcoal  through  the  dirt,  as  it  keeps  it  sweet  and  gives 
fine  color  to  the  foliage. 

Although  most  ferns  can  only  be  grown  in  the  parlor  with  the  proper 
protection  of  a  Wardian  case,  there  are  some  which  will  succeed  well 
grown  upon  the  center-table,  provided  the  room  is  light  and  airy. 
They  can  be  grown  successfully  in  porcelain  pots  without  drainage  from 
the  bottom,  in  which  they  will  develop  finely.  Put  in  the  bottom  of  the 
pot  two  layers  of  potsherds  broken  up  rather  fine,  and  upon  this  a  few 
small  lumps  of  charcoal ;  upon  this  fill  with  soil,  a  compost  of  peat,  loam 
and  sand  broken  fine,  but  not  sifted,  and  set  the  plant ;  give  a  good 
watering  and  the  work  is  done.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  overwater 
so  as  to  rot  the  roots,  and  not  to  keep  the  room  very  hot  and  close. 
The  best  ones  for  parlor  use  are  the  adiantum  species,  davellia,  blech- 
num,  pteris,  nephrolepsis,  polypodium  and  lycopodium. 

UNIQUE  FERN  BASKETS. 

Take  two  peach  baskets,  fasten  together  and  line  the  upper  one 
with  moss  turf,  with  the  green  placed  outward  and  the  basket  filled 
with  earth  and  leaf  mold.  The  moss  should  also  be  extended  over  the 
top  of  the  basket  after  setting  out  young  ferns,  which  may  be  found  in 
any  of  the  damp,  mossy  parts  of  the  woods.  The  basket  when  pre- 
pared should  be  kept  somewhat  shaded  and  the  moss  should  be  daily 


88  FERNS, 

dampened.  The  bottom  and  splints  of  the  basket  should  be  painted 
in  green,  as  violent  contrasts  in  flowers  are  not  preferable.  When  moss 
is  not  available,  grass  sod  may  be  substituted  for  the  basket-lining,  and 
other  plants  be  substituted  for  the  ferns. 

Very  beautiful  baskets  for  flowers  and  ferns  can  be  made  of  the 
longer  and  more  feathery  kinds  of  mosses.  These  look  xtry  beautiful, 
especially  the  wild  flowers,  when  clustered  in  this  delicate  and  soft 
green  nest,  which  can  be  made  to  preserve  its  freshness  and  brilliancy 
for  many  months.  A  light  frame  of  any  shape  liked,  should  be  made 
of  wire,  and  the  moss,  which  should  first  be  well  picked  over  and 
cleansed  from  any  bits  of  dirt  or  dead  leaves  which  may  be  hanging 
about  it,  gathered  into  little  tufts  and  sewed  with  a  coarse  needle  and 
thread  to  the  covering,  so  as  to  clothe  it  thickly  with  a  close  and  com- 
pact coating,  taking  care  that  points  of  the  moss  are  all  outward.  A  long 
handle  made  in  the  same  manner  should  be  attached  to  the  basket  and 
a  tin  or  other  vessel,  filled  with  either  wet  sand  or  water,  placed  within 
to  hold  the  flowers.  By  dipping  the  whole  structure  into  water  once 
in  three  or  four  days,  its  verdure  and  elasticity  will  be  fully  preserved, 
and  a  block  of  wood  about  an  inch  thick  and  stained  black  or  green, 
if  placed  under  the  basket,  will  prevent  all  risk  of  damage  to  the  table 
from  moisture. 

Another  satisfactory  arrangement  is  to  obtain  a  common  shallow  box 
and  ornament  it  with  sticks  or  bark  and  fill  it  with  sandy  earth,  mixed 
with  moss  finely  broken  up.  After  planting  the  ferns  the  whole  can  be 
covered  with  moss,  such  as  is  found  on  logs  in  damp  woods.  The 
ferns  will  find  their  way  through  the  moss. 

GATHERING  AND  PRESSING  FERNS. 

The  dried  fronds  of  ferns  are  frequently  employed  in  forming  screens 
under  blinds,  etc.,  and,  as  they  are  easily  obtainable,  collections  of  ferns 
being  generally  grown,  some  hints  as  to  the  preservation  of  them  can- 
not fail  to  be  acceptable.  Get  any  carpenter  to  plane  two  deal  boards 
about  half  an  inch  thick,  a  foot  wide  and  a  foot  and  a  half  long ; 
between  these  place  one  or  two  quires  of  common  blotting  paper. 
Round  the  boards  put  two  narrow  but  strong  leather  straps ;  these 
must  be  drawn  as  tightly  as  possible,  and  will  secure  a  great  amount  of 
pressure  on  the  fronds  inside ;  and  the  whole  may  be  strapped  on  the 
top  of  a  box  in  traveling,  so  as  not  to  take  up  much  room.  In  gather- 
ing the  ferns,  cut  them  as  low  down  in  the  stem  as  possible,  and  in 
small  specimens  get  up  the  root  if  you  can.  In  putting  them  to  dry 
in  the  blotting  paper,  have  respect  to  the  natural  position  of  the  fern, 
and  also  to  the  size  of  the  sheet  of  paper  on  which  they  are  to  be  finally 
placed.  When  the  fronds  are  long  and  the  specimens  large,  they  may 
be  bent  so  as  to  lie  in  a  smaller  space  than  they  otherwise  could,  and 


PARLOR  SCREENS  OF  FERNS.  89 

if  dried  in  a  certain  position  will  retain  the  form  easily.  It  is  best  at 
first  to  make  the  pressure  lightly,  so  as  to  alter  the  form  of  the  plant  if 
needful  before  it  is  completely  dried ;  then  increase  the  pressure  day  by 
day  until  the  specimens  are  ready  to  remove.  Ferns  dry  quickly  and 
easily,  and  may  without  injury  be  kept  in  drying  paper  for  some  time. 
Or  they  may  be  kept  between  the  leaves  of  books,  pamphlets  or  maga- 
zines in  the  same  way,  only  putting  them  under  a  heavy  pressure,  and 
frequently  changing  them  to  dry  leaves.  When  between  the  blotting 
paper,  change  them  two  or  three  times  a  week,  so  as  to  remove  any 
dampness,  and  dry  the  paper  in  the  sun,  or  before  the  fire,  very  often. 
It  is  best  to  have  two  sets  of  paper,  so  that  one  can  be  dried  while  the 
other  is  in  use.  Any  ordinary  fern  will  be  fit  to  put  into  the  folio  in 
two  or  three  weeks  at  most. 

FERN  AND  FLOWER  CARDS. 

Lovely  cards  may  be  made  of  dried  flowers  and  ferns.  Obtain  two 
boards  and  a  couple  of  thin  leather  straps — these  will  be  quite  sufficient 
for  your  purpose  if  you  do  not  wish  to  go  to  the  expense  of  a  regular 
press — and  some  botanical  blotting-paper,  which  may  be  had  of  any 
stationer.  It  is  best  when  fine  and  white.  Gather  the  flowers,  if  pos- 
sible, on  a  dry  day,  and  place  them,  after  having  removed  any  large 
stalks,  between  two  of  the  sheets  of  paper.  Between  each  layer  of 
flowers  place  at  least  three  or  four  sheets  of  paper,  and  strap  the  whole 
between  the  boards  as  tightly  as  you  can.  Change  the  papers  daily 
until  the  flowers  are  nearly  dry,  then  every  few  days  will  be  sufficient 
until  they  are  quite  dry.  Draw  the  design  upon  the  card,  of  course 
seeing  that  it  is  a  suitable  one  for-  your  purpose.  An  empty  basket,  a 
vase,  a  plain  wooden  cross,  or  merely  a  few  empty  stalks  or  a  bow  of 
ribbon,  are  suitable  designs  when  you  have  a  sufficient  variety  of  flow- 
ers. Make  some  very  strong  gum — powdered  gum  arable  is  best — and 
arrange  the  flowers  on  the  design  according  to  your  fancy. 

PARLOR  SCREENS  OF  FERNS. 

Have  a  frame  made  of  walnut,  ebony  or  any  dark  wood,  about  four 
or  five  feet  high  and  two  and  a  half  feet  wide,  and  have  two  panes  of 
glass  of  a  right  size  to  fit  the  frame.  Upon  one  of  these  the  ferns  can 
be  arranged.  Place  among  them  bright-hued  butterflies  and  a  few 
delicate  shells.  The  ferns  will  be  of  different  shades  of  green,  and  a 
great  deal  of  art  can  be  shown  in  arranging  them  in  such  a  way  that, 
when  fastened  and  seen  in  an  upright  position,  they  shall  appear  to  be 
growing  naturally,  the  butterflies  looking  as  if  they  were  poising  on 
the  wing.  When  the  arrangement  is  perfected  a  single  drop  of  gum 
arable  under  each  of  the  fern  leaves  will  keep  it  securely  in  place 
(mucilage  should  not  be  used,  as  it  discolors  the  leaves),  and  the  second 


90  FISH  SCALE  FLO  WERS. 

plate  of  glass  is  laid  upon  them,  the  two  edges  of  the  panes  being  fas- 
tened together  by  a  tape,  which  is  gummed  on,  the  exact  width  of  the 
two  when  joined  together.  This  fern-screen,  when  properly  managed, 
makes  a  pretty  ornament  for  a  parlor. 


FISH  SCALE  FLOWEHS. 

JEWELRY  AND  EMBROIDERY. 

The  best  scales  for  the  purpose  are  those  obtained  from  the  sheep- 
head  and  the  red  fish.  Wash  well  in  cold  water,  add  a  little  spirits  of 
ammonia,  and  put  out  to  dry.  Cut  a  pattern  of  a  leaf,  place  it  upon  the 
scale,  letting  the  end  of  the  leaf  opposite  the  stem  fall  on  the  edge,  and 
cut  one  side  thin,  the  other  with  a  single  clip  of  the  scissors. 

All  is  pure  white,  but  if  desired  a  slight  tint  may  be  given  by  a  thin 
coat  of  transparent  oil  paint.  For  pink,  use  rose  madder;  for  blue, 
Prussian  blue  ;  yellow,  yellow  lake  ;  for  green,  mix  together  the  last  two 
colors ;  reddish  brown,  for  shading,  burnt  sienna,  and  for  violet,  mix 
crimson  lake  or  rose  madder  with  Prussian  blue. 

Pierce  two  holes  with  an  awl,  one  about  the  center,  the  other  almost 
at  the  edge  of  the  leaf ;  put  a  bit  of  silver  wire  through  and  twist  the 
ends  together  for  about  one-half  inch ;  then  place  another  leaf  on  one 
end  of  the  same  wire,  and  twist  the  wire  as  before;  then  put  another 
on  the  opposite  wire.  You  can  stem  fern  leaves  in  the  same  manner. 
The  flowers  are  formed  in  almost  the  same  way,  except  you  place  a 
small  pearl  bead  in  the  center.  Tendrils  can  be  made  by  coiling  the 
wire  round  a  No.  6  needle.  These  are  quite  pretty  interspersed  among 
the  leaves  and  flowers ;  also  make  pretty  stamens.  The  flowers  and 
leaves  are  fastened  together  with  wire  and  white  sewing  silk,  as  hair 
flowers  are. 

When  completed  and  made  up  into  sprays  they  are  finished  with  a 
coat  of  white  demar  varnish,  which  will  give  additional  brilliancy  to  the 
scales. 

Those  intended  for  the  breastpin  are  bound  to  a  pin,  and  the  ear- 
rings have  a  bit  of  wire  bent  back  from  the  flowers  like  a  hook.  The 
roses,  the  pansies,  and  the  phloxes  are  the  prettiest  ones  to  imitate. 

For  embroidery  :  Vein  your  scales  and  leaves  with  a  fine  steel  needle ; 
do  it  slowly,  bearing  on  hard  to  give  clearness ;  the  leaves  are  now 
ready.  Stretch  a  piece  of  red  velvet  tightly  in  an  embroidery  frame; 
place  the  pattern  which  you  intend  to  copy  before  you,  and  imitate  it  by 
sewing  the  scales  on  carefully.  The  effect  of  these  glistening  scales  on 
velvet  is  very  beautiful  and  has  the  appearance  of  pearls. 


FLO  WERS.  91 


FLOWERS. 

PREPARING  THE   SOIL. 

The  only  difficult  part  of  making  a  garden  is  the  deep  digging  and 
the  enriching  necessary  to  produce  fine  flowers.  On  alluvial  river  lands 
this  is  a  light  task,  but  a  serious  one  on  poor,  sandy  soil  or  stiff  clay 
lands. 

When  the  ground  is  very  poor  it  should  be  spaded  out  and  carted  off, 
and  its  place  filled  with  better.  This  may  seem  an  arduous  task  at  the 
time,  but  it  will  fully  repay  for  the  trouble  before  the  year  is  out.  A 
mixture  of  leaf  mould,  barn-yard  manure,  leached  ashes,  soot  and  a 
very  little  salt  spaded  into  the  soil  will  make  any  clay  hill  or  the  pine 
barren  blossom  like  the  rose.  Low,  wet  lands  require  an  addition  of 
sand,  particularly  where  bulbous  and  tuberous-rooted  flowers  are  to  be 
planted.  The  different  concentrated  manures  now  sold  everywhere  are 
valuable,  but  must  be  used  sparingly,  or  they  exhaust  the  soil  and  cause 
it  to  burn  up  in  summer.  There  is  no  necessity  for  any  one  living  in 
the  country  to  buy  fertilizers,  when,  with  a  little  care,  a  compost  heap, 
made  of  decayed  leaves  and  chips,  ashes,  rich  dirt  from  under  wood 
piles,  bits  of  coal  and  soap-suds,  may  always  be  ready  to  supply  all  the 
wants  of  the  gardens.  On  Southern  farms  an  invaluable  fertilizer  is 
found  in  cotton  seed,  which  may  be  spaded  into  the  ground  at  anytime 
during  the  winter.  After  the  flower  beds  have  been  made  sufficiently 
rich  and  light  they  should  be  raked  over  until  fine  and  smooth,  and  ele- 
vated in  the  middle  so  that  the  water  will  run  off. 

PLANTING  THE  SEED. 

Nearly  all  kinds  of  flower  seeds  require  transplanting,  therefore  it  is 
best  to  plant  in  boxes,  pots  or  hot-beds.  Old  cigar  boxes  are  conve- 
nient and  are  easily  handled,  but  first  bore  holes  in  the  bottom  of  the 
boxes,  and  in  your  pots  or  boxes  place  either  broken  clam  or  oyster 
shells  or  pieces  of  old  flower  pots  as  a  drainage ;  then  take  light,  rich 
earth,  and  sift  or  rub  it  carefully  in  your  hands  to  be  sure  there  are  no 
lumps  ;  some  bake  the  earth  to  destroy  any  insects  which  may  Ipe  in  it, 
but  it  answers  the  same  purpose  to  pour  boiling  water  on  it.  After  you 
have  filled  the  boxes  or  pots  with  this  prepared  earth,  sprinkle  your 
seed  carefully  over  it,  and  sift  over  them  light  soil  sufficient  to  cover 
them,  moisten  them  with  warm  water,  and  place  the  box  where  there 
is  but  little  light,  and  throw  a  piece  of  paper  over  the  top.  A  warm 
place  will  start  them  best.  Let  them  remain  thus  several  days  till  the 
seed  have  a  chance  to  swell,  before  you  give  them  much  light,  and  keep 
the  earth  moist ;  a  sponge  is  excellent  to  water  them  as  it  does  not  dis- 


92  FLOWERS, 

turb  the  position  of  the  seeds ;  also  use  warm  water ;  as  soon  as  you 
see  they  are  sprouting  give  them  light  and  air,  if  not  too  cold,  or  else 
the  plant  will  not  have  strength  to  grow  well. 

Hot-beds  are  the  best,  and  can  be  made  with  but  little  expense  by 
taking  some  old  box,  and  if  you  do  not  possess  an  old  window  sash,  you 
can  purchase  one  of  some  builder  for  a  trifling  sum  of  money,  and  fit  it  to 
your  box  by  nailing  strips  at  the  sides  ;  dig  a  place  the  size  of  the  box 
and  two  or  three  feet  deep,  fill  it  with  loose  manure  mixed  with  straw, 
which  is  the  most  heating  ;  then  sprinkle  soil  over  the  top  about  six 
inches  deep;  place  the  box  on  the  top,  carefully  heaping  the  earth 
around  the  outside,  and  the  hot-bed  is  made,  in  which  you  can  start 
the  seeds  and  sHps  by  either  placing  the  boxes  or  pots  in  the  earth  on 
top  of  the  manure,  and  plant  the  seeds  and  slips  in  them,  or,  as  many 
prefer,  planting  in  the  soil  of  the  hot-bed.  After  the  seedling  plants 
are  of  sufficient  size  to  transplant,  transplant  them  into  small  pots; 
you  can  easily  plant  them  in  the  flower  beds  without  disturbing  the 
roots,  and  the  plants  will  not  require  covering.  First  dig  a  hole  and 
pour  water  into  it ;  then  carefully  slip  the  plant,  dirt  and  all,  from  the 
pots  and  place  into  the  hole  made  for  it  and  press  the  earth  tight  around 
it.  Of  course  they  must  remain  in  the  pot  till  they  are  well  rooted.  In 
raising  slips  you  need  to  mix  in  full  half  common  scouring  sand  with 
the  soil,  and  they  must  be  shaded  from  the  light  several  days. 

All  who  care  for  flowers  will  desire  to  raise  verbenas,  as  they  blossom 
all  summer.  If  you  wish  to  raise  them  from  seed  they  should  be  sown 
in  February  or  first  of  March,  though  even  the  last  of  the  month  will 
do.  One  secret  in  raising  verbenas  is  change  of  soil.  It  would  be  bet- 
ter to  plant  them  every  year  in  a  different  location,  but  if  you  renew  the 
soil  it  will  do  to  plant  them  twice  in  the  same  bed,  but  never  three  years 
in  succession.  All  flowers,  as  well  as  vegetables,  need  constant  change 
of  soil  for  they  soon  exhaust  the  earth.  Seeds  are  better  that  are  raised 
in  locations  distant  from  the  place  where  they  are  to  be  sown.  Flowers 
soon  deteriorate  if  you  continue  to  plant  over  and  over  from  seed  raised 
in  the  same  spot ;  that  is  one  of  the  reasons  why  seeds  from  Europe 
are  generally  preferred  by  florists.  Japan  pink  seed  should  be  planted 
in  March  in  order  to  have  them  flower  the  first  year ;  they  are  hardy, 
and  blossom  also  the  second  year. 

Pansy  seed  should  be  planted  as  early  as  verbenas  ;  ten  weeks'  stock, 
phlox  Drummondii,  double  zinnias,  lobelia,  petunias,  portulaca,  salpi- 
glossis,  candytuft  and  larkspur  should  be  planted  in  April.  If  you  desire 
to  raise  picotee  carnation  pinks  for  the  next  year,  and  Canterbury  bells 
and  fox-gloves,  sow  in  April.  Sow  asters  of  all  kinds  the  last  of  April 
or  first  of  May.  Sweet  peas  should  be  sown  in  the  open  soil,  about 
three  inches  deep,  early  in  April.  It  is  better  to  soak  the  seed  in  warm 
water  before  sowing.     When  they  have  germinated,  and  as  they  begin 


DESIGNS  FOR  FLO  WER  BEDS.  93 

to  climb,  fill  in  earth  around  them,  and  water  now  and  then  thoroughly 
witii  soap-suds.  Mignonette  should  not  be  transplanted;  sow  the  seed 
in  the  open  soil  the  first  of  May.  Candytuft  and  sweet  alyssum  are 
hardy,  and  the  seed  can  be  sown  out  of  doors ;  but  if  you  once  have 
had  them,  they  will  come  up  self  sown.  Look  over  your  beds  in  the 
spring,  and  take  up  such  plants,  when  you  have  the  soil  prepared  and 
beds  made,  then  you  can  plant  them  back  again  where  you  desire. 
Some  of  the  chmbers,  such  as  maurandia,  Barclayana,  Thunbergia, 
need  transplanting,  and  had  better  be  sown  early.  Joseph's  Coat  is  a 
very  brilliant  plant,  its  leaves  are  all  shades  of  green,  red  and  yellow  ; 
the  seed  can  be  sown  either  in  or  out  of  doors  by  the  first  of  May. 
Balsams  will  grow  better  if  the  seeds  are  not  planted  till  the  second 
week  in  May  out  of  doors.  It  is  desirable  to  have  some  flowers  raised 
by  slips  or  brought  from  some  greenhouse,  such  as  fuchsias,  double 
feverfews,  scarlet  geraniums,  heliotropes,  rose  geraniums,  lemon  ver- 
benas, monthly  roses  and  hardy  perpetuals.  Hardy  perpetual  roses  are 
desirable  in  every  garden,  they  grow  so  thrifty  and  blossom  all.  summer, 
and  with  a  little  covering  will  live  out  all  winter.  If  you  have  a  shady 
moist  place  in  your  garden,  there  you  can  plant  your  lily  of  the  valley, 
double  blue  English  violet,  forget-me-not  and  pansy. 

DESIGNS  FOR  FLOWER  BEDS. 

If  possible,  preparations  for  making  a  flower  garden  should  commence 
in  the  autumn,  so  that  hardy  bulbs  and  shrubs  may  be  planted  before 
January.  In  the  North  this  is  essential,  and  in  the  South  doubly  so,  as 
the  beauty  of  nearly  all  our  finest,  hardy  annuals  depends  on  their  being 
sown  in  the  fall. 

While  the  seeds  are  germinating  prepare  the  ground  for  them.  Have 
plenty  of  clean  bright  grass  for  a  background  to  the  beds.  If  possible, 
have  a  nice  gravel  walk  between  the  beds  or  through  the  yard.  Make 
the  foot  walks  wide  or  narrow,  according  to  the  size  of  the  yard.  To 
make  the  walks  hard  and  smooth  take  three-fourths  gravel  and  one- 
fourth  cement,  dig  the  earth  away  from  the  walk  to  a  depth  of  four 
inches,  and  fill  up  with  the  gravel  and  cement.  Water  and  roll  after 
the  material  is  down.     This  will  make  the  walk  hard  and  smooth. 

Much  taste  may  be  displayed  in  the  selection  of  designs  for  flower 
beds.  Fancy,  complicated  plans  are  pleasing,  but,  unless  such  beds  are 
carefully  bordered,  their  outlines  soon  become  marred.  Long,  sweep- 
ing curves  are  always  effective  ;  nowhere  does  the  "  line  of  beauty " 
attest  its  grace  more  decidedly  than  in  a  flower  border.  Circles  are 
always  pretty,  and  well  suited  for  ribbon  beds  or  masses  of  small 
flowers.     A  convenient  size  is  six  or  eight  feet  in  diameter. 

Two  pretty  beds  are  known  as  "scroll  work"  and  "carpet."  In 
the  former  the  ground  is  laid  off  after  the  fashion  of  a  bit  of  scroll  wall 
paper  border ;  gravel  walks  form  the  background,  while  the  figures  are 


94:  FLO  WERS. 

represented  by  bright  colored  flowers.  The  carpet  plan  is  to  put  low- 
bedding  plants  together  in  stripes  and  figures  of  various  patterns. 
This  style  of  bedding  requires  a  great  number  of  plants,  and  is  not 
to  be  recommended  unless  one  is  an  experienced  gardener.  . 

The  little  star  and  ribbon  beds  can  be  made  simply  by  laying  out  beds 
in  the  proper  shape,  and  then  planting  the  flowers  in  stripes,  circles  or 
squares,  alternate  rows  of  red,  white  or  other  colors ;  the  effect  is  very 
pretty.  For  such  beds  nothing  can  be  finer  than  phloxes,  verbenas  and 
asters. 

Another  pretty  one  is  constructed  in  this  way :  In  the  center  of  the 
circle  a  white  foliage  plant,  around  that  a  yellow  ;  next  a  circle  of  Mas- 
ter Christine  geranium,  the  whole  edged  with  blue  lobelia.  A  very 
pretty  ribbon  bed  may  be  made  as  follows  :  At  the  back  of  the  bed  a 
collection  of  dahlias  are  planted ;  then  a  line  of  perilla,  a  dark  foliage 
plant,  growing  about  eighteen  inches  high ;  next  a  row  of  scarlet 
flowered  geraniums,  followed  by  a  line  of  yellow  foliage  plants  ;  then  a 
row  of  white  Tom  Thumb  geraniums,  and  the  outside  Hne  with  ver- 
benas. 

Oblong  beds,  four  or  five  feet  broad  and  ten  or  fifteen  long,  are 
easily  kept  in  order,  and  have  the  merit  of  affording  considerable  border 
room  for  long,  unbroken  lines  of  carnations,  petunias  and  other  small 
plants.  Back  of  these  flowers  may  be  taller  plants,  and,  in  the  center 
of  the  beds  rows  of  spireas,  dentzias  and  other  shrubs.  There  should 
be  several  small  beds — round,  square,  oval,  oblong  or  of  any  other  shape 
desired — reserved  for  choice  bulbs,  and  the  small  annuals  that  are  not 
showy  except  in  masses.  Three  feet  square  is  a  pretty  size  for  such 
beds ;  but  no  matter  what  may  be  the  dimensions  of  a  garden,  the 
walks  should  be  wide,  at  least  three  to  five  feet,  and  wider  if  possible. 
It  is  better  to  sacrifice  a  little  more  ground  than  to  give  a  garden  the 
contracted  appearance  always  produced  by  narrow  walks. 

DESIRABLE  BEDDING  PLANTS. 

Herbaceous  perennials  are  very  easily  cultivated,  for,  as  a  rule,  they 
will  grow  where  any  plants  will.  All  they  require  is  a  good  garden 
soil,  a  warm  and  light  one,  for  it  is  useless  to  expect  plants  to  grow  in  a 
wet,  undraiiled  soil.  Once  in  three  years  or  thereabouts  they  should  be 
divided  and  transplanted.  Division  should  be  done  either  at  the  end  of 
summer  or  at  the  time  of  making  garden  in  the  spring. 

The  alyssums  should  be  planted  in  masses,  the  poppies  and  tall  lark- 
spurs may  be  set  at  ten  or  fifteen  inches  apart,  and  the  other  annuals 
six  or  eight  inches.  They  are  all  easy  to  transplant  except  the  candy- 
tuft and  poppy. 

The  pansy  heads  our  list.  In  higher  latitudes  than  33^  they  require 
protection  in  winter,  below  that  they  flourish  in  sunny  situations  all  win- 
ter.    The  soil  must  be  very  rich. 


DESIRABLE  BEDDING  PLANTS.  95 

The  phlox  is  next  in  merit.  They  make  very  beautiful  beds  ;  and  e\'en 
if  neglected  they  reward  all  trouble  by  a  constant  display  of  brilliancy 
for  months. 

Poppies  are  dazzlingly  gay  and  make  a  handsome  back-ground  for 
smaller  plants.  The  delphinium,  our  old  larkspur,  is  another  very- 
desirable  flower.  The  finest  of  the  annual  varieties  are  the  tall  and 
dwarf  rockets,  the  candelabrum,  the  hyacinth-flowered  and  emperor 
larkspurs.  The  tall  varieties  make  a  pretty  contrast  planted  with  car- 
nation poppies. 

The  candytuft,  alyssum,  nemophila,  clarkia,  China  pink  and  catchfiy 
make  very  pretty  masses  or  beds.  The  whitlavia  is  a  little  beauty  with 
its  white  and  purple  bell-shaped  flowers.  They  suit  the  South  admira- 
bly, and  Northern  seedsmen  warrant  them  proof  against  the  cold. 
Sweet  peas,  those  old-time  favorites,  should  be  planted  in  the  fall  in  the 
Southern  States.  Sow  thickly  in  rows  on  rich  soil.  Perennials  planted 
in  autumn  must  be  left  in  the  seed  beds  (and  protected  in  the  extreme 
North)  during  the  winter,  then  transplanted  in  the  spring.  The  six 
most  desirable  varieties  are  :  Hollyhocks,  in  various  shades  of  pink, 
crimson,  maroon,  white,  purple  .and  yellow,  and  double  as  a  cup  full 
of  ruffles.  Magnificent  Canterbury  bells,  white  and  blue,  beautiful  for 
large  vases  of  cut  flowers,  and  showy  in  the  garden.  The  single 
varieties  are  prettier  than  the  double.  Aquilegias,  or  columbines, 
are  veiy  handsome  ;  yellow,  white,  purple  and  striped.  The  finest  are 
the  "  golden  spurred  "  and  the  Rocky  Mountain  columbine.  Under  the 
general  name  of  "pinks  "  come  three  of  our  most  exquisite  and  fragrant 
flowers — fringed  pheasant's  eye,  the  clove  pink  and  the  carnation.  The 
carnations  are  sometimes  solid  colored  and  sometimes  ribboned  with 
broad  stripes.  Their  beauty  and  delightful  fragrance  make  them  a 
dangerous  rival  of  the  rose. 

The  verbena  is  one  of  the  most  popular  bedding  plants  in  cultivation. 
It  is  readily  grown  from  seed,  and  embraces  nearly  every  shade  of  color 
in  its  flowers.  The  verbena  will  grow  in  almost  any  soil,  and  gives  a 
profusion  of  bloom  from  early  spring  till  late  in  the  fall. 

There  is,  perhaps,  no  class  of  plants  so  indispensable  for  bedding  as 
the  geranium.  In  selecting  varieties  for  this  purpose  it  is  very  import- 
ant to  choose  sorts  which  stand  the  sun ;  for  very  many  that  do  well  in 
the  greenhouse  or  in  a  sheltered  position,  fail  to  give  satisfaction  when 
exposed  to  the  sun.  The  following  list  comprises  some  thoroughly 
tested:  Master  Christine,  the  very  best  bedder — free  bloomer ;  Jean 
Sisley,  very  fine  scarlet ;  white  Tom  Thumb,  Queen  of  the  West,  and  a 
beauty. 

The  fuchsia  is  a  magnificent  pot  or  bedding  plant,  if  grown  in  partial 
shade  with  an  abundance  of  water,  and  will  produce  its  handsome  blos- 
soms, which  are  sometimes  called  "Ladies'  ear-drops,"   in  great  profu- 


96  FLO  WERS. 

sion.  The  very  best  winter-blooming  varieties  are  speciosa,  red  through- 
out ;  Carl  Holt,  red  and  white  striped,  and  lustre,  with  dark  crimson 
corolla  and  white  sepals.  Plants  intended  for  winter  flowering  require 
a  period  of  training  and  rest  in  the  summer.  They  must  be  encour- 
aged to  make  an  abundant  growth  and  all  the  flowers  kept  off  till  Sep- 
tember. 

Nasturtiums,  balsams  and  seeds  of  a  similar  size,  can  be  planted  half 
an  inch  in  depth,  but  sweet  peas  will  blossom  much  longer  if  planted 
like  garden  peas,  from  two  to  three  inches  in  depth,  and  they  always 
seem  to  bloom  much  handsomer  when  planted  in  rows  in  the  vegetable 
garden  than  in  small  circles  or  patches  in  the  flower  garden.  They  are 
as  indispensable  for  cut  flowers  in  June  as  green  peas  are  for  the  table, 
and,  if  their  first  blossoms  are  gathered  and  none  allowed  to  go  to  seed, 
they  will  continue  to  flower  and  perfume  the  air  with  their  exquisite 
fragrance  until  frost.  For  hedges  between  a  flower  and  a  vegetable 
garden  they  are  very  ornamental,  and  will  also  prove  an  excellent  screen 
to  hide  any  disagreeable  objects.  As  they  are  quite  as  hardy  as  garden 
peas,  they  can  be  planted  as  soon  as  the  frost  is  out  of  the  ground,  and 
in  six  weeks,  if  the  season  is  favorable,  you  can  gather  the  bright 
sweet-scented  flower. 

Asters  take  the  first  rank  among  the  annuals,  their  great  diversity  of 
color  and  beautiful  form  making  them  favorites  with  all  florists.  But  if 
early  flowers  are  desired,  you  must  plant  the  seeds  early,  then  the  plants 
will  be  of  good  size  when  the  garden  beds  are  ready  for  them.  Asters 
vegetate  ver}^  easily,  the  seeds  often  sprouting  in  three  days,  and  as  the 
roots  are  fibrous,  and  grow  compactly,  they  are  much  more  easily  trans- 
planted than  the  tap-rooted  plants,  such  as  larkspurs  and  sweet  peas, 
and  if  you  choose  a  cloudy  day  in  May  for  the  work,  or  plant  them  after 
sunset,  when  it  has  been  raining,  the  plants  will  not  wither.  The  soil 
for  asters  should  be  made  very  rich  with  compost,  as  their  roots  demand 
the  choicest  of  plant  food  to  produce  the  finest  of  flowers  ;  and  when  the 
buds  appear,  liquid  manure  applied  twice  a  week  will  increase  their 
beauty  tenfold.  Cocardeau  or  crown  asters  are  very  beautiful,  and  dif- 
fer essentially  from  all  other  kinds,  the  center  of  the  flowers  being  pure 
white,  while  the  margin  may  be  either  pink,  crimson,  lilac  or  purple. 
The  Washington  aster  has  larger  flowers  than  any  other  variety,  and 
the  plants  are  very  vigorous.  The  dwarf  bouquet  varieties  make  very 
beautiful  edgings  to  beds  of  variegated  plants,  and  the  latest  variety,  the 
Schiller,  is  a  very  abundant  bloomer,  compact  in  habit  and  flowers,  unti 
the  frost  kills  it.  A  bed  of  asters,  arranged  with  the  tallest  varieties  in 
the  center  and  graduated  down  to  the  dwarf  Schiller  or  chrysanthemum 
aster,  will  make  as  fine  a  show  in  a  garden  as  a  bed  of  geraniums,  while 
the  cost  of  the  plants  will  be  very  trifling. 

Balsams  can  also  be  made  highly  decorative  if  they  are  trimmed  of 


DESIRABLE  BEDDING  PLANTS.  97 

superfluous  branches,  and  trained  either  to  one  stem  or  three.  Thus 
trained  the  flowers  will  be  very  much  larger  and  the  stems  covered  with 
them.  Trained  with  three  branches  the  balsam  can  be  made  very  deco- 
rative as  a  house  plant,  and  if  all  the  seed  pods  are  nipped  off  it  will 
bloom  for  six  months  at  least.  If  a  bed  of  ornamental  foliage  plants  is 
desired  from  annuals,  they  should  be  transplanted  late  in  May.  Castor 
oil  bean  can  be  used  for  the  center  of  the  bed,  and  one  plant  will  be  suf- 
ficient if  the  soil  is  made  so  rich  that  it  will  grow  rapidly.  Around  it 
place  half  a  dozen  plants  of  amaranthus  tricolor.  For  the  next  row, 
plant  euphorbia  marginata.  Of  green  and  white  foliage,  it  is  very  showy 
when  mingled  with  the  darker  foliage  plants.  It  is  a  native  of  Color- 
ado, called  by  the  Indians,  "  snow  on  the  mountains."  It  is  a  very  com- 
mon plant  and  has  been  cultivated  for  the  last  forty  years ;  but  of  late 
only  has  it  received  the  attention  it  deserves.  The  outer  row  of  this 
variegated  bed  can  be  planted  with  golden  feather  or  the  yellow-leaved 
feverfew,  which  has  been  used  for  mingling  with  the  bright-lived  coleus. 

The  Japan  cockscombs  are  also  ornamental  for  the  garden,  the 
feathery  colosia  making  a  fine  show.  The  seeds  are  very  tiny,  and  must 
be  planted  and  watered  carefully.  It  needs  a  light  but  rich  soil  to  grow 
to  perfection,  and  is  well  adapted  for  the  house  or  window  garden,  as 
it  is  very  suitable  for  bouquets  and  vases  of  flowers.  Ten  weeks'  stocks 
are  old-fashioned  flowers,  but  always  beautiful  and  ornamental,  and  the 
German  florists  have  lately  produced  fine  varieties,  as  exquisite  in  their 
coloring  as  in  fragrance.  Frequent  transplantings  are  needful  to 
increase  the  stockiness  of  the  plants,  so  it  is  well  to  sow  the  seeds  quite 
early,  and,  as  the  second  leaves  unfold,  transplant  into  a  box,  and  then 
into  the  garden.  A  rich,  moist  soil  is  needed  to  produce  the  largest 
flowering  stalks,  yet  they  will  grow  in  any  garden  soil  after  they  have 
been  well  started,  and  they  are  very  hardy,  blossoming  when  nearly  all 
the  other  flowers  are  dead.  It  is  desirable,  in  purchasing  these  seeds, 
to  select  the  most  expensive  varieties  if  you  wish  the  handsomest  plants, 
and  it  is  very  poor  economy  to  buy  the  cheaper  varieties.  It  is  also 
needful  to  plant  them  so  that  their  roots  can  have  plenty  of  room  and 
not  become  starved  for  want  of  food.  Asters  need  eight  inches  of  soil, 
balsams  at  least  ten  inches,  and  ten  weeks'  stocks  the  same  space  as  the 
l)alsams.  Transplant  them  in  beds  by  themselves,  or  in  rows,  but  leave 
the  same  distance  each  way  When  the  sun  shines  scorchingly  hot  in 
July  a  little  mulch  of  stable  litter  will  give  their  roots  a  desirable  shade. 
The  different  varieties  of  annuals  are  almost  numberless,  but  among  the 
indispensables,  one  would  class  the  candytuft,  sweet  alyssum,  brownel- 
lia,  ageratum,  convolvulus,  centranthus,  dianthus  or  pinks,  gypsophila, 
larkspur,  mignonette,  nasturtium,  pansies,  petunias,  phlox,  salpiglossis, 
saponaria,  sweet  peas,  viscaria  and  zinnias. 

The  gladiolus  is  a  magnificent  flower.  Plant  the  bulbs  at  intervals 
7 


98  FLO  WERS, 

of  about  three  weeks  apart,  at  any  time  between  April  and  Independ- 
ence day.  Set  the  bulbs  about  nine  inches  apart  and  cover  them  four 
inches  deep.  As  they  grow  they  should  be  staked  to  prevent  them 
from  blowing  over.  Stir  the  soil  around  them  occasionally  with  a 
sharp  hoe,  and  this  is  all  the  care  they  need. 

The  iris  family  must  not  be  forgotten.  The  Spanish  and  English 
varieties  are  bulbous  rooted ;  very  pretty,  with  white,  blue,  and  yellow 
flowers.  Fine  for  borders,  if  left  undisturbed  in  the  ground.  Will 
grow  anywhere.  But  the  most  splendid  kind  is  the  German  iris  ;  it  is 
a  tuberous-rooted  evergreen,  with  large,  whit^,  blue  and  buff  and  violet 
flowers,  veined  and  margined  with  other  tints.  To  this  class  belong 
the  old-fashioned  "  flags  "  of  our  childhood  ;  but  the  new  varieties  far 
surpass  the  old  in  richness  and  beautiful  blendings  of  color.  Plant  in 
good  sandy  soil,  four  inches  deep  and  eighteen  apart.  Another  hand- 
some flower,  that  must  be  planted  before  Januar}-,  for  spring  blooming, 
is  the  herbaceous  peony.  The  principal  colors  are  white,  pink  and 
crimson,  with  different  shades,  very  showy.  Plant  as  directed  for  the 
German  iris.  Double  jonquils  and  the  narcissus  are  pretty  and  exceed- 
ingly fragrant.  The  finest  of  them  are  the  double  white  and  polyanthus 
narcissus,  the  poet's  narcissus,  and  the  gold  and  silver  trumpets.  The 
directions  for  hyacinths  will  suit  them.  The  crown  imperial  is  a  beau- 
tiful hardy  bulb,  with  single  and  double,  red  and  yellow  flowers.  Of 
easy  culture  in  the  North,  but  repeated  experiments  in  the  South  prove 
that  a  warm  climate  does  not  suit  it.  Pretty  miniature  plants  for 
masses  in  sunny  situations  are  the  star  of  Bethlehem,  white,  with  green 
stripe  on  each  silvery  petal,  the  blue  scilla,  the  delicately-tinted  white, 
yellow  and  purple  crocus,  and  that  usher  of  spring  days,  the  snow-drop. 

The  "  feathered  "  and  fragrant  musk  hyacinths  (mis-named  plants) 
and  the  green- tipped  snowflakes  deserve  a  small  place  in  our  favor. 
In  the  North  the  ranunculus  and  the  brilliant  anemone  cannot  be  planted 
out  doors  until  spring,  but  m  the  southern  states  they  should  be  in  the 
ground  by  December  Set  ten  inches  apart,  they  make  a  beautiful  bed, 
and  bloom  constantly  two  or  three  months — crimson,  yellow,  purple 
and  white,  single  and  double.  With  the  charming  bleeding  heart  the 
list  is  complete.  Plant  m  good  soil,  three  inches  deep.  Its  fine  cut 
foliage  and  dainty  pink  and  white  flowers  will  always  make  it  a  favorite. 

WINDOW  GARDENS. 

A  window  looking  to  the  south  is  to  be  preferred ;  next  to  that  an 
east  or  west  window.  Before  cold  weather  comes,  carefully  go  over 
the  entire  frame  and  carefully  shut  up  every  crack  where  the  frost  can 
obtain  a  possible  entrance,  A  good  plan  is  to  have  a  plant  stand 
mounted  upon  rollers,  so  that  on  every  cold  night  it  can  be  run  away 
from  the  windows. 


PLANTS  FOR  WINDO  W  GARDENS.  99 

Plants  kept  in  the  house  over  winter  require  attention  paid  to  certain 
requisites,  heat,  light,  ventilation  and  v^ater.  Too  much  heat  is  just  as 
injurious  to  them  as  a  deficiency.  If  the  air  is  dry  and  hot  the  plants 
will  soon  be  infested  with  the  red  spider,  green  fly  and  mealy  bug,  so 
try  to  maintain  a  temperature  of  seventy  or  seventy-five  degrees  by  day 
and  fifteen  degrees  less  at  night.  To  get  the  moist  air,  so  essential  to 
all  plants,  water  may  be  evaporated  on  the  stove. 

I^ight  should  be  given  at  all  times  and  as  much  as  possible.  Gerani- 
ums and  heliotrope  revel  in  the  sunlight.  Such  charming  window 
plants  as  the  rex  begonias  are  partial  to  shade,  but  can  be  put  in  among 
other  plants.  The  same  with  the  fuchsias.  Turn  your  plants  frequently 
if  you  would  have  them  symmetrical,  and  don't  be  afraid  to  pinch  off 
the  tops  if  you  want  them  bushy.  Geraniums,  fuchsias  and  coleus 
have  a  strong  tendency  to  run  up  one  long  stem  which,  of  course,  makes 
a  spindling  plant. 

Ventilation  should  be  given  on  every  fine  day.  Do  not  allow  a 
draught  of  cold  air  to  blow  on  your  plants,  however.  Watering  should 
be  done  when  the  surface  soil  is  dry,  and  only  then.  There  are  some 
exceptions  to  this  rule,  however,  for  callas,  hydrangias,  rex  begonias 
and  some  others  require  abundance  of  water.  Preparation  for  the  win- 
ter garden  should  commence  along  early  in  the  summer.  One  cannot 
expect  a  rose  or  a  fuchsia,  which  has  given  its  lovely  flowers  during 
the  summer,  to  keep  right  along  in  flower  Roses  for  winter  blooming 
must  be  pot-grown  and  of  varieties  adapted  to  forcing. 

The  leaves  of  plants  need  washing  and  syringing  to  remove  the  dust 
that  gathers  on  them.  Some  plants,  such  as  begonia  rex,  do  not  like 
their  leaves  moistened.  Others,  like  the  camellia,  require  the  leaves 
sponged  off  one  by  one.  Always  use  soft,  tepid  water,  and  attend  to 
washing  them  at  least  once  every  week.  Pick  off  the  yellow  leaves  at 
the  same  time. 

The  drainage  of  the  pots  should  admit  the  surplus  water  to  escape 
easily  through  the  hole  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot.  Never  allow  the  water 
to  stand  in  the  saucers. 

One  great  error  in  window-gardening  consists  in  attempting  to  grow 
too  many  plants.  Better  to  have  one  healthy,  well-grown  plant  than  a 
dozen  sickly,  enfeebled  things  which  have  neither  beauty  nor  blossom. 

PLANTS  FOR  WINDOW  GARDENS. 

To  get  the  box  ready  for  plants,  put  in  pieces  of  charcoal  in  order  to 
make  a  drainage.  For  the  soil,  take  a  mixture  of  leaf-mold  and  black 
muck,  from  the  woods,  finely  plilverized  ;  add  to  this  a  small  quantity 
of  sand. 

Sand  is  a  requisite  for  some  flowers,  especially  the  succulents,  and  in 
limited  quantity  for  ferns  and  other  plants  that  enjoy  a  light,  loose  soil. 


100  FLO  WERS. 

Bank  sand,  so  called,  is  miserable  stuff  for  this  purpose,  and  should 
never  be  used.  Road  sand  is  far  better,  especially  if  sharp  and  gritty. 
Sand  obtained  from  the  shores  of  large  bodies  of  fresh  water  is  the  best 
by  far.  Care  must  be  taken  that  seaside  sand  is  not  used,  a.s  the  salt 
contained  in  it  is  injurious  to  vegetation. 

Leaf-mold  or  peat,  which  is  decayed  vegetable  matter,  black  and  rich 
in  plant-food,  is  one  of  the  best  ingredients  for  potting  soils  ;  that  is, 
for  certain  classes  of  plants,  as  the  azaleas,  camellias,  ferns,  orchids  and 
most  store  plants.  Some  species  do  not  desire  a  light  soil,  but  thrive 
much  better  in  a  compact,  firm  compost.  The  common  practice  of 
going  into  the  garden  for  soil  intended  for  potting  is  the  cause  of  a 
large  proportion  of  the  failures  among  private  collection  of  plants. 

Six  plants  best  suited  to  house  culture  are  the  calla,  rose,  geranium, 
heliotrope,  fuchsia  and  ivy.  Begonias  are  thrifty,  and  so,  also,  are  the 
scented  geraniums  and  different  varieties  of  cactus.  For  hanging  bas- 
kets is  the  smilax,  moneywort,  saxifrage,  Madeira  vine,  Wandering  Jew, 
and  trailing  myrtle.  If  you  want  some  small  growing  plants  for 
brackets,  use  oxalis,  Chinese  primrose,  musk  plant  and  pocket  flower; 
geraniums  and  heliotropes  require  a  great  deal  of  water  and  sun. 

Among  the  winter  blooming  plants  the  ageratum  gives  pretty  blue 
flowers,  most  excellent  for  bouquets,  several  varieties  of  flowering 
begonias,  especially  multiflora  with  beautiful  scarlet  flowers  ;  geraniums 
of  many  kinds,  both  of  the  blooming  and  the  scented-leaved  varieties 
and  the  marvelous  hued  coleus,  some  of  them  perfect  wonders  in 
marking. 

In  selecting  plants  for  winter  do  not  forget  to  choose  a  few  with 
fancy  foliage  ;  of  these  the  geraniums  take  the  lead — -Happy  Thought 
(leaf  white,  green  margin),  Mrs.  Pollock,  Distinction,  and  Cloth  of  Gold 
are  our  favorites ;  in  silver,  Mountain  of  Snow  and  Italia  Unita — these 
with  a  rex  begonia  and  achyrantes,  will  make  the  window  a  thing  of 
beauty,  even  if  you  have  no  blossoms. 

In  the  sunniest  window  place  geraniums,  roses,  abutilons,  lantanas, 
callas,  etc.  Fuchsias,  begonias,  ivies,  farfugium  and  Chinese  primroses 
will  thrive  equally  well  in  an  eastern  or  northwestern  window. 

The  especial  ornamental  plants  to  raise  in  order  to  have  fragrant 
odors,  for  bouquets,  stands  and  flower  vases  are  these  sweet-scented 
flowers  :  Sweet  violet,  hyacinth,  heliotrope,  rose  and  sweet-scented  gera- 
nium, pinks,  sweet-scented  candytuft,  woodbine,  sweet  briar,  cabbage 
rose,  tea  rose,  white  lily,  sweet  alyssum,  mignonette,  sweet  pea,  carna- 
tions, sweet-william  and  several  sweet-scented  roses  ;  also,  the  tuberose 
is  exceedingly  fragrant.  Any  one  of  these  in  a  bouquet  will  fill  the 
room  wvth  sweet  perfume. 

India  rubber  plants  require  plenty  of  water,  and  the  leaves  regularly 


ORNAMENTAL  WIN  DO  W  BOXES.  101 

sponged  in  extreme  dry  weather.  They  should  be  stood  in  a  basin  of 
water. 

The  oleander  is  one  of  the  most  popular  of  all  the  house  plants.  It 
is  easily  rooted  in  water  and  requires  no  special  cultivation.  Its  worst 
enemy  is  the  scale  insect,  which  makes  its  abode  on  the  underside  of 
the  leaves,  and  the  only  sensible  way  of  removing  the  pest  is  hand- 
picking,  with  the  thumb  and  finger.  Washing  with  whale  oil  soap-suds 
is  good,  but  not  near  so  certain  of  results  as  the  hand-picking. 

Cacti  do  not  require  very  rich  earth,  as  they  like  a  sort  of  rocky  soil. 
Old  plaster  is  good  mixed  with  it.  The  jar  must  not  be  too  large,  as  it 
has  to  be  well  filled  with  roots  before  the  cactus  will  bloom.  Some 
varieties  will  require  seven  years'  growth  before  blooming.  Care 
should  be  taken  to  secure  an  old  slip  or  leaf,  as  the  older  the  slip  the 
sooner  it  will  bloom.  They  can  sometimes  be  forced  to  bloom  by  the 
application  of  a  little  burnt  oyster  shell  close  about  the  plant.  This 
should  be  used  with  care  as  it  may  be  the  death  of  them. 

Lantanas  are  excellent  winter  bloomers,  and  very  easily  cared  for,  only 
requiring  plenty  of  water.  Of  abutilons,  Boule  de  Neige  (white),  is 
best.  Begonias — Sandersonii  (coral),  the  common  wax  and  weltone- 
insis  are  all  constant  bloomers,  and  the  blossoms  of  waxy  pink  and 
vivid  coral  form  a  pretty  contrast  to  the  dark  shining  green  of  the 
leaves. 

The  oxalis  is  especially  suited  for  culture  in  small  pots  and  hanging 
baskets.  There  are  a  great  many  varieties  of  this  family ;  the  sham- 
rock, dear  to  the  heart  of  Erin's  children,  is  an  oxalis.  They  produce 
an  astonishing  quantity  of  flowers  from  the  very  small  bulbs.  The 
most  common  is  the  pink  variety. 

Alternantheras  are  good  house  plants,  with  beautiful  variegated  foli- 
age, growing  about  six  inches  high.  The  leaves  are  tinted  with  many 
bright  colors,  crimson  tints  predominating  in  every  conceivable  man- 
ner. 

Chinese  primroses  are  very  easily  raised  and  flower  freely.  They 
should  have  light,  rich  soil,  and  the  pots  should  be  well  drained,  for  if 
the  soil  becomes  sodden  the  plants  never  flourish. 

There  is  also  the  gorgeous  tuHp,  the  pretty  crocus,  the  modest  snow- 
drop and  the  sweet  lily  of  the  valley.  And  the  cyclamen  is  in  bloom 
the  entire  winter.  Tea  roses,  heliotropes  and  hyacinths  will  give  us 
their  fragrance ;  abutilons,  bouvardias  and  begonias  their  color,  and 
smilax  and  lycopodium  their  glossy  green  leaves. 

ORNAMENTAL  WINDOW  BOXES. 

Make  a  box  six  inches  deep  and  long  enough  to  fit  the  window.  If 
the  window  has  a  ledge  on  the  inside,  the  box  had  better  be  made  the 
width  of    the   ledge.     If   not,  and  you   have   many   flowers,  make  it 


102  FLO  WERS, 

twenty  inches  wide.  Many  ways  are  given  for  decorating  the  outside. 
Some  take  oilcloth  of  a  pattern  to  imitate  tiles.  Some  use  cloth  of  a 
geometrical  design,  or  of  bright  colors.  Others  use  wall  paper — that 
with  storks,  palm  trees  and  tropical  designs  seeming  to  be  the  favorite. 
This  can  be  pasted  or  glued  on,  or,  if  preferred,  tacked  on  neatly,  and 
a  narrow  molding  put  around  the  top,  sides  and  bottom.  Others  are 
painted  or  made  of  rustic  work  ;  some  are  covered  with  a  mixture  of 
acorns  and  shells.  Cut  the  acorns  lengthways,  cover  the  box  with  thick 
furniture  varnish ;  lay  the  acorns  fiat  side  down  along  the  edge  and 
bottom  of  the  sides,  one  after  the  other;  on  the  open  space  affix  them 
in  any  fantastic  shape  liked,  then  sift  the  powdered  shell  thickly  all 
over  the  box  between  the  acorns. 

A  pretty  box  for  stone  or  gray  houses  is  to  paint  them  the  same  color 
as  the  house,  then  sift  sand  upon  them  in  the  same  way  '  hat  imitation 
stone  fences  are  made.  The  half  shells  of  horse  chestnuts  glued  on  the 
box  in  rows,  top,  middle  and  bottom,  with  dry  tendrils  of  grape  vines 
fastened  from  one  chestnut  to  another,  so  as  to  represent  a  vine,  is 
very  pretty.  After  this  is  done  give  the  whole  a  coat  of  common  var- 
nish, and  then  sift  the  sand  over  all.  Prune  seeds  can  be  split  in  two, 
and  glued  on  in  fantastic  shapes.  Spread  a  coat  of  thick  glue  on  inter- 
vening spaces,  and  sprinkle  on  rice  v/hile  the  glue  is  yet  soft.  After  all 
is  thoroughly  dry,  paint  the  rice  carefully  with  brown  paint,  and  varnish 
the  whole  box. 

Another  one,  made  to  imitate  walnut,  is  made  in  this  way  -  Stain  the 
box,  and  put  around  the  top  and  bottom  wall  paper  bordering,  the 
kind  that  is  used  to  imitate  walnut,  or  the  same  may  be  used  to  imitate 
the  oak  shades,  with  a  darker  shade  for  bordering.  Give  this  several 
coats  of  varnish,  and  it  will  stand  a  whole  season,  even  if  placed  out 
of  doors.  Those  who  live  convenient  to  the  woods  can  make  handsome 
and  durable  ones  by  splitting  small  twigs,  about  an  inch  thick,  in  two, 
and  nailing  them  on  the  box  in  perpendicular  shape.  If  they  have 
rough  bark  on  so  much  the  better,  A  grape  vine  can  then  be  split  in 
two,  and  nailed  on  over  it  in  irregular  shape,  as  a  vine  would  grow. 
Then  make  leaves  and  berries  out  of  putty,  into  which  burnt  umber 
has  been  worked  to  make  it  the  color  of  walnut.  Spread  out  the 
putty  as  you  would  dough,  and  take  a  natural  leaf  of  some  kind  for  a 
pattern.  Cut  out  with  a  knife,  and  vein  the  leaves  by  slightly  indenting 
them  with  a  wood  toothpick.  Make  the  stems  and  tendrils  of  putty 
h\  rolling  between  the  hands.  Then  nail  all  on  with  small  brad  nails. 
Vv'iien  the  putty  is  dry  it  will  be  as  durable  as  wood. 

Very  pretty  boxes  can  also  be  made  by  covering  them  with  pine  cones 
of  gray  lichens. 

The  inside  of  these  boxes  should  be  lined  with  zinc,  tin,  or  painted, 
and  a  thick  covering  of  pounded  charcoal  and  sand  put  in  the  bottom. 


VINES  AND  IVIES,  103 

Some  plant  the  flowers  in  the  boxes,  but  they  grow  better  by  placing 
the  pots  in  the  box.  In  this  way  they  can  be  turned  to  the  light  as 
needed,  and  if  any  die  they  can  be  removed  without  disturbing  the  rest 
of  the  plants.  The  pots  can  all  be  made  the  same  height  by  placing 
sand  under  the  small  ones.     Put  over  the  top  a  layer  of  green  moss. 

Where  there  is  no  window  ledge  on  the  inside,  and  the  box  is  desired 
for  indoors,  legs,  which  can  be  had  at  a  turning-mill,  must  be  fastened 
to  the  box,  and  castors  inserted,  so  that  it  can  be  easily  moved, 

A  small  table  or  stand  will  also  do  for  this  purpose,  or  a  bench,  the 
length  and  breadth  of  the  box,  may  be  made  of  pine  wood,  painted 
black  and  covered,  not  too  thickly,  with  scrap-book  pictures.  If  Japan- 
ese figures  are  used,  it  will  be  all  the  more  fashionable  and  artistic 
looking. 

Pretty  boxes  can  be  made  of  any  common  wood,  by  simply  staining 
them  with  asphaltum  varnish.  Then  varnish  with  several  coats  of 
copal.  After  they  are  well  dried,  take  some  pumice  stone  and  polish 
them.  If  necessary,  varnish  carefully  once  again.  Your  common  pine 
wood  will  then  be  turned  into  black  walnut,  highly  polished. 

VINES  AND  IVIES. 

Vines,  while  they  are  the  most  graceful  of  plants,  are  the  most  easily 
cultivated ;  hence  they  should  be  our  first  choice  for  in-door  growth. 
And,  chief  of  all,  should  stand  the  Irish  or  German  ivy,  as  it  is  popu- 
larly called ;  for  no  matter  how  low,  or  shady  or  close  a  room  may  be 
it  is  sure  to  flourish. 

Too  great  exposure  to  the  sun  causes  the  leaves  of  this  species  of  ivy  to 
turn  purple,  and  to  ripen  too  quickly ;  yet  it  will  seldom  blossom  without 
sunshine.  It  must  be  frequently  watered,  but  not  liberally,  just  enough 
to  keep  it  from  wilting.  Suspend  the  pot  from  the  ceiling,  in  front  of 
a  window  where  there  is  little  sun,  or  set  it  upon  the  mantel  or  a  bracket, 
where  there  is  plenty  of  light,  and  let  the  branches  droop  or  climb  as 
they  will ;  or  gather  them  with  slender  cords  into  festoons  about  the 
window  and  walls ;  the  plant  is  much  handsomer  thus  than  if  trained  to 
a  frame.  Early  in  June,  trim  off  the  longest  branches,  or  give  them 
some  shght  support,  and  set  it  with  the  garden  shrubs  (having  filled  the 
hole  in  with  good  soil) ;  in  the  fall  bring  it  indoors  again,  where  if 
trained  on  the  walls  or  a  trellis,  it  will  form  a  network  of  glossy  green 
leaves. 

A  pot  of  English  ivy  on  each  side  of  a  bay  window  will  soon  give  it 
the  appearance  of  a  summer  bower.  It  is  a  hardy  plant  that  will  thrive 
in  any  part  of  the  house,  provided  it  be  kept  moist.  To  insure  this  con- 
dition, it  is  best  to  put  the  pot  containing  the  ivy  into  a  larger  one  and 
fill  the  space  between  with  moss,  which  must  be  kept  constantly  soaked. 

The  Madeira  vine  is  one  of  the  easiest  grown,  and  a  very  rapid 


104  FLO  WERS. 

climber.  All  you  have  to  do  is  to  put  the  tuber  in  the  ground,  and  in 
a  very  short  time  it  will  cover  a  large  space.  The  roots  can  be  kept 
over  winter  in  the  cellar. 

The  cobea  is  not  excelled  by  any  vine,  when  its  rapid  climbing  quali- 
ties, graceful  foliage,  and  lovely  bell-shaped  flowers  are  considered.  It 
can  be  grown  from  seed,  provided  you  have  bottom  heat  to  start  them,, 
and  the  seeds  must  be  planted  edgeways.  But  you  can  get  plants  much 
quicker  by  rooting  the  cuttings  in  sand.  The  cobea  being  somewhat 
tender  must  not  be  planted  outdoors  until  the  weather  is  quite  warm. 

The  maurandia  is  a  new  favorite  that  is  rapidly  becommg  popular 
for  garden  and  trellis  culture,  and  bids  fair  to  become  as  common  as 
the  staunch  old  morning-glory.  Cypress  vine,  canna  and  many  other 
hard-shelled  seeds,  require  a  long  time  to  vegetate  in  the  open  ground. 
You  can  materially  hasten  germination  by  pouring  scalding  water  over 
them,  and  allow  them  to  remain  until  the  water  is  cold.  The  seeds 
of  globe  amaranthus,  and  some  others,  are  enveloped  in  a  cottony  sub- 
stance, and  require  to  be  soaked  in  milk  previous  to  sowing. 

Perhaps  no  climbing  plant  in  cultivation  equals  the  smilax.  Its 
peculiar  wavy  formation  renders  it  desirable  for  vases  or  hanging  bas- 
kets, and  it  can  be  grown  from  seeds  or  from  bulbs.  Pot  the  bulbs  as 
soon  as  received,  watering  very  Httle  until  signs  of  growth  appear.  Give 
them  a  warm  place,  but  rather  in  the  shade  than  where  the  full  sun 
will  strike  them.  When  growth  is  complete  the  foliage  will  turn  yel- 
low. Then  allow  the  bulbs  to  grow  dry,  and  put  away  six  or  eight 
weeks  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

Kenilworth  ivy  is  one  of  the  most  desirable  basket  plants.  It  is  alto- 
gether of  a  drooping  nature,  and  nothing  is  better  adapted  for  growing 
in  hanging  baskets,  or  around  the  edge  of  vases,  etc.,  where  a  drooping 
plant  is  required.  This  ivy  will  not  endure  the  heat  of  the  sun's  rays. 
A  little  sun  early  in  the  morning  will  be  of  advantage  to  it,  but,  if  you 
would  have  it  grow  in  a  basket  in  the  window,  the  noonday  sun  must 
be  excluded.  The  plant  delights  in  a  deep  soil  and  a  shady  situation. 
Do  not  forget  to  turn  it  every  day  or  two,  so  that  the  whole  plant  may 
enjoy  the  light  alike. 

To  arrange  "  creeping  Charlie  "  to  grow  luxuriantly  in  a  vase,  place 
some  broken  pieces  of  charcoal  in  the  bottom  of  it,  with  some  beach 
sand  on  it  to  the  depth  of  two  inches ;  place  the  stems  of  the  plant  in 
this  sand  and  fill  the  vase  with  water.  Place  in  the  coolest  corner  of 
the  room. 

TRELLISES  AND  SCREENS. 

Make  a  lattice-work  of  stout  copper  wire,  and  fasten  on  to  the  box 
on  the  side  next  to  the  window.  Train  on  it  quick  growing  ivies,  morn- 
ing-glories, Madeira  vines,  or  the  common  sweet  potato,  and  you  will 
have  a  window  clothed  in  living  green  that  will  not  shut  out  the  air. 


PLANTS  FOR  HANGING  BASKETS.  105 

If  the  screen  is  designed  for  a  dark  window,  between  buildings  or 
under  a  veranda,  plant  next  to  the  screen  German  or  English  ivy,  or 
the  common  Wandering  Jew,  and  fill  the  intervening  space  with  ferns. 
The  ferns  will  do  well  at  such  a  window,  as  they  cannot  stand  the  sun. 

Simple  frames  may  be  made  for  these  vines  by  taking  two  long  nar- 
row strips  of  wood  and  several  small  ones  of  different  lengths,  and 
nailing  the  latter  to  the  long  ones  at  equal  distances  apart ;  or  a  still 
better  way  is  to  make  holes  in  the  long  strips  and  insert  the  ends  of 
the  short  ones.  When  they  are  finished  paint  them  green.  The  frames 
can  he  made  in  the  form  of  a  partly  opened  fan.  A  square  frame  can 
easily  be  made.  The  prettiest  frames  are  made  of  willows,  wire  or  rat- 
tans. Take  strips  of  wood  and  burn  or  bore  holes  through  them  at 
equal  distances.  Then  insert  the  wire  or  rattan,  or  willow,  and  twist 
them  around  in  different  forms,  fastening  the  ends  firmly ;  then  paint 
or  varnish  them. 

PLANTS  FOR  HANGING  BASKETS. 

A  very  pretty  plant  for  a  hanging  basket  and  a  most  curious  one  is 
pilea  or  artillery  plant.  The  leaves  are  produced  like  fern  fronds,  and 
are  covered  with  flowers  scarcely  as  large  as  a  pin  head.  When  wat- 
ered, these  flowers  crack  and  snap  like  miniature  artillery,  hence  the 
name.  If  you  want  a  lovely  basket,  and  only  one  plant  to  do  it  with, 
get  the  begonia  glaucophylla,  it  has  beautiful  orange  flowers,  and  the 
habit  of  the  plant  is  trailing.  It  grows  so  rapidly  that  the  basket  is 
entirely  concealed  in  a  short  time. 

For  these  baskets  nothing  can  compare  in  beauty  of  foliage  to  the 
sedum  seboldii,  whose  variegated  leaves  appear  along  the  trailing  stems 
in  groups  of  three.  Then  there  is  oxalis,  pink  and  white,  and  the 
zebrina  striped  tradescantia  occasionally  surprises  you  with  a  wee  crim- 
son blossom. 

Line  the  baskets  with  moss  with  a  little  soil  attached.  Place  in  the 
center  a  small  pot  containing  a  showy  plant  of  upright  habit ;  fill  up 
the  surrounding  space  with  rich  woods  and  old  hot-bed  soil ;  fill  in  with 
plants  of  a  climing  or  trailing  habit ;  when  the  center  fades,  you  can 
replace  it  by  a  fresh  plant.  In  filling  a  basket,  select  plants  of  a  similar 
nature — those  of  like  shape  and  moisture — the  fuchsia,  lobelia,  ivy, 
geraniums,  ivies,  linaria,  panicum,  balms,  gold  and  silver  vinca  and 
ferns.  A  basket  for  a  hot,  sunny  situation,  should  be  filled  with  coleus 
for  center,  also  double  petunia,  sedums,  convolvulus  minor,  nastur- 
tiums, begonia  and  mignonette  for  trailing.  A  carnation  will  make 
a  constant  blooming  center — a  coleus  a  brilliant  one. 

Among  the  numerous  plants  now  in  use  for  the  ornamentation  of 
hanging-baskets,  for  draping  vases,  or  for  training  loosely  up  conserva- 
tory pillars,  few  surpass  the  ivy-leaved  pelargonium.     The  green  and 


106  FLOWERS, 

bronze-leaved  varieties  are  also  suitable  for  use  in  this  way,  but  the 
variegated  varieties  are  the  most  attractive. 

A  novel  basket  for  these  plants  is  made  in  this  way  :  Get  a  piece  of 
logr  eight  inches  long  and  six  inches  through ;  flatten  one  side  and  chip 
out  the  inside  until  you  have  just  a  shell ;  leave  the  bark  on ;  glue  on 
some  lichens ;  where  the  ends  were  sawed  off  glue  on  pieces  of  bark, 
and  also  some  lichens ;  fasten  four  rings  in  it,  one  at  each  corner,  and 
hang  with  brass  chains. 

FLORAL  ORNAMENTS  FOR  THE  SITTING-ROOM. 

Pretty  ornaments  can  be  made  for  the  sitting-room  by  taking  a  large 
sponge,  and  after  it  is  thoroughly  soaked,  rolling  it  full  of  all  kinds  of 
grass  and  bird  seeds.  Or  take  a  pine  cone  and  treat  the  same  as  the 
sponge,  and  put  the  cone  in  the  center  of  the  sponge.  This  can  be  kept 
in  a  deep  dish  or  suspended  by  a  cord  in  front  of  the  window.  Both 
must  be  kept  constantly  wet,  and  after  the  burr  has  soaked  a  few  days, 
it  will  close  up  to  the  form  of  a  solid  cone,  then  the  little  blades  of  grass 
will  begin  to  emerge  from  the  walls  of  the  sponge  and  cone,  making  a 
lovely  ornament. 

Here  is  another  simple  ornament :  Take  about  twenty  wheat  ears, 
with  two  or  three  inches  of  straw,  tie  them  together,  hang  them  up  in  a 
warm  place,  keep  them  sprip.kled  with  water,  and  when  they  commence 
to  sprout,  put  them  in  a  celery  glass,  with  water ;  the  top  will  soon  become 
a  perfect  pyramid  of  verdure  and  will  retain  its  beauty  for  several 
weeks. 

Get  an  old  wire  sieve,  not  too  fine,  and  sew  it  together  with  wire  in  a 
cone  shape.  Then  take  moist  earth  and  form  it  to  suit  the  wire  mold. 
Have  a  quantity  of  grass  seed  and  press  them  in  the  earth  cone  until  it 
is  completely  covered,  then  put  it  in  the  wire  mold  and  bend  the  pointed 
end  under  to  keep  the  earth  from  falling  out.  Cut  the  pointed  part  of 
the  mold  at  the  top,  winding  and  spread  the  edges  out  like  a  funnel. 
Cover  the  top  of  the  earth  all  over  with  the  seed  and  sprinkle  a  little 
moist  earth  over  it.  Wrap  in  a  paper  loosely,  then  set  in  a  soup  plate ; 
remove  the  paper  every  other  day  to  see  if  the  seeds  have  sprouted ;  as 
soon  as  they  sprout  take  the  paper  off  and  set  in  a  warm,  sunny  place ; 
sprinkle  now  and  then  with  tepid  water,  and  in  a  short  time  you  will  have 
a  beautiful  green. 

Bird's-eye  pepper  in  a  pretty  flower  pot  is  a  beautiful  ornament,  as 
they  are  covered  all  the  year  with  tiny  green  and  scarlet  peppers. 
They  have  a  delightful  flavor  and  beautify  the  table.  Sprinkle  the  bush 
often,  as  it  brightens  the  foliage  and  removes  all  dust. 

Besides  these  substitutes  for  flowers  there  are,  for  instance,  pots  half 
filled  with  damp  sand,  on  which  grains  of  corn  may  be  sprinkled,  and 
then  the  pot  nearly  filled  up  with  sand.     Into  the  sand  may  be  plunged 


GREENHOUSES  AND  COLD  PITS.  107 

an  old  moss  or  lichen  stick ;  alongside  it  a  spray  of  pretty  ivy  may  be 
pressed  into  the  moist  sand  and  then  twined  around  the  stick  and  fas- 
tened with  wire  at  the  top.  The  sand  may  then  be  covered  with  moss 
and  a  spray  of  fir  or  arbor  vits  may  be  added.  If  these  are  kept  moist 
they  will  remain  green  till  the  corn  grows. 

Or  this  :  Sew  coarse  flannel  around  a  goblet  with  the  stem  broken 
off ;  put  this  shapely  dome  upon  a  saucer  of  water ;  wet  the  flannel  and 
sprinkle  over  as  much  flax  seed  as  will  adhere  to  it.  The  flannel  will 
absorb  the  water  from  the  saucer,  which  should  often  be  replenished. 
In  about  two  weeks  the  flannel  will  be  concealed  in  a  beautiful  verdure, 
which  will  vie  with  any  table  ornament. 

GREENHOUSES  AND  COLD  PITS. 

A  miniature  one  may  be  arranged  by  means  of  a  simple  glazed  frame, 
shaped  something  like  a  bay  window.  This,  being  made  the  size  of  the 
window,  is  screwed  on  to  the  other  side,  taking  the  place  of  the  bhnds, 
which  are  not  required  in  the  winter  season.  By  opening  the  sash,  top 
and  bottom,  the  warm  air  of  the  apartment  circulates  among  the  plants, 
which  shut  out  the  wintry  landscape  and  give  a  summer  look  to  the 
room.  When  the  plants  are  in  a  separate  apartment,  water  can  be  used 
freely  by  syringing  and  a  moist  atmosphere  preserved.  The  tempera- 
ture, with  this  arrangement,  can  be  kept  lower  than  would  be  comfort- 
able in  the  living  room,  and  the  plants  be  saved  from  dust  and  many 
evils  which  we  manage  to  endure  and  live,  but  which  generally  prove 
too  much  for  the  plants. 

A  small  greenhouse  may  be  built,  including  furnace  and  flue  complete, 
for  about  $6  a  running  foot,  that  is,  a  house  eleven  feet  wide  and  thirty 
feet  long  will  need  an  outlay  of  $180,  but  if  the  owner  is  handy  with 
tools  and  does  some  of  the  work  himself,  the  cost  will  be  materially 
lessened. 

Locust  or  cedar  posts  six  feet  long  are  put  two  feet  in  the  gfround,  at 
three  feet  distance  between  each ;  to  these  rough  hemlock  boards  are 
nailed,  then  a  layer  of  tarred  paper,  and  the  whole  covered  with  weather 
boards.  The  rafters  are  now  put  on,  at  what  carpenters  term  one- 
third  pitch.  Now  we  are  ready  for  the  roof.  The  furnace  room  is 
shingled,  and  the  greenhouse  will  receive  seven  sashes  on  each  side, 
each  3x6  feet,  laid  on  in  such  a  way  that  each  of  them  covers  one-half 
of  the  width  of  the  rafter. 

The  first  and  each  alternate  sash  are  screwed  down,  but  the  others 
must  be  left  to  allow  ventilation  when  necessary,  by  putting  a  block  of 
wood  under  them.  The  interior  is  divided  in  equal  portions  by  a  two- 
foot  walk  running  its  entire  length,  so  that  we  get  two  benches  on  each 
side  four  and  one-half  feet  wide.  Such  a  house  will  be  best  heated  by 
a  flue  made  "jy.']  inches  inside  measurement,  starting  from  a  furnace  in 


108  FLOWERS. 

one  end  of  the  greenhouse,  running  beneath  the  bench  on  that  side  of 
the  house  and  emptying  into  a  brick  chimney  outside.  If  you  run  the 
flue  all  the  way  around  you  do  not  make  the  temperature  right,  for  some 
plants  want  abundance  of  heat  while  others  delight  in  cool,  shady  places. 
The  heat  may  be  generated  either  from  wood  or  coal.  The  first  is 
preferable,  but  hard  coal  does  very  well,  provided  you  care  to  run  the 
risk  of  gas  destroying  your  plants. 

For  a  cold  pit :  Select  a  spot  with  a  southern  exposure,  protected 
from  the  north  wind,  if  possible.  The  pit  should  be  dug  out  about  four 
feet  deep,  four  wide  and  ten  long,  and  then  neatly  bricked.  Put  a 
shelf  the  whole  length  of  the  pit  on  each  side  about  two  feet  from  the 
ground,  for  the  flower  jars.  The  pit  must  be  surrounded  by  a  brick 
inclosure  two  feet  high  on  the  north  side,  sloping  to  one  foot  on  the 
south.  Have  three  closely-fitting  sashes  with  thick  window  glass  to 
cover  with.  These  may  open  on  hinges  or  be  made  to  sUde.  For  pro- 
tection against  hail  or  snow  have  at  hand  three  light  wooden  shutters, 
larger  than  the  glass  frames,  to  place  over  them. 

Water  the  plants  thoroughly  on  warm,  sunny  days,  but  not  oftener 
than  once  a  month.  With  a  little  care  such  a  pit  will  secure  a  constant 
bloom  of  geraniums,  begonias,  justitias  and  salvias,  which,  mingled  with 
graceful  smilax,  a  few  ferns  and  delicate  ivy,  form  an  exquisite  winter 
picture.  The  linum  tigrynum,  with  its  myriad  of  golden  blossoms,  the 
clustered  sky-blue  plumbago  and  several  varieties  of  cactus  are  recom- 
mended as  winter  bloomers. 

FAVORITE  PLANTS  FOR  IN-DOORS. 

There  are  many  plants  desirable  for  in-door  gardens,  but  none  that 
give  such  complete  satisfaction  as  begonias,  carnations,  fuchsias,  gerani- 
ums, pansies,  roses,  tuberoses,  tulips,  verbenas,  hyacinths,  and  lilies. 
These  are  hardy,  easily  grown,  and  very  satisfactory. 

BEGONIAS. 

Begonias  require  a  warmer  temperature  than  geraniums  or  roses,  and 
our  living-rooms,  which  in  winter  are  too  warm  for  many  plants,  are 
none  too  warm  for  begonias.  An  average  of  about  seventy  degrees  is 
about  right.  They  thrive  best  in  two  parts  good  garden  soil,  one  part 
well-decayed  manure,  one  part  sand.  In  potting  them,  put  in  about 
two  inches  of  charcoal  for  drainage,  and  fill  up  the  pot  to  within  an  inch 
of  the  top  to  allow  watering. 

The  ornamental-leaved  class  are  cultivated  for  the  beauty  of  the 
foliage,  and  are  used  only  as  pot  plants  or  in  Wardian  cases,  being  too 
tender  to  bear  our  summer  sun.  The  leaves  are  large,  variegated  and 
margined  with  a  silvery  and  metallic  gloss.  Care  must  be  taken  to 
keep  the  foliage  free  from  dust,  as  the  leaves  of  these  varieties  will  not 


CARNATIONS.  109 

bear  washing  or  showering,  although  they  like  an  abundance  of  water 
at  their  roots.  In  this  section  are  the  famous  rex  begonia,  which  every 
flower-lover  longs  to  possess,  and  some  others  of  most  beautiful 
markings. 

Begonias  are  propagated  from  seeds,  cuttings  and  leaves.  Take  a 
leaf  of  the  rex  variety  and  cut  it  into  six  or  seven  pieces,  lay  them  on 
damp  sand,  where  they  can  get  a  little  sun,  punch  holes  through  the 
veins  with  a  penknife,  and  thus  they  root. 

Begonias  are  a  little  peculiar  in  their  habits ;  they  will  not  bear  water 
on  the  leaves,  although  they  want  abundance  on  the  roots,  neither  do 
they  like  removal  from  one  place  to  another;  let  them  have  a  perma- 
nent position,  say  in  the  middle  of  the  window  garden.  Moist,  damp 
atmosphere  suits  them  best,  and  the  leaves  must  be  carefully  guarded 
from  dust. 

CARNATIONS. 

Carnations  are  among  the  most  beautiful  and  valuable  of  plants,  being 
alike  desirable  for  bedding  out  in  summer,  and  the  decoration  of  the 
window-garden  during  winter.  They  are  of  the  easiest  culture  and 
beautifully  formed,  and  variously  colored  flowers  are  produced  in  the 
greatest  profusion.  They  should  be  planted  as  early  as  possible  in  the 
spring,  being  nearly  hardy,  and  capable  of  enduring  quite  a  severe  frost 
without  injury.  Set  ou<-  in  beds  at  a  distance  of  about  one  foot  between 
each  plant.  Early  in  summer  they  will  commence  blooming,  and  con- 
tinue until  they  are  checked  by  cold  weather.  If  intended  for  winter 
blooming,  remove  all  buds  as  fast  as  they  appear  until  September,  leav- 
ing those  formed  after  that  on  the  plants.  In  October  the  plants  should 
be  lifted,  taking  care  to  preserve  some  of  the  soil  about  the  roots,  and 
potted  mto  pots  of  suitable  size — six-inch  pots  will  generally  answer. 
They  should  be  placed  in  a  shady  place  for  a  few  days,  and  will  then  be 
ready  for  removal  to  the  window  where  they  are  to  bloom. 

The  carnation  is  very  impatient  of  a  wet  soil,  and  care  should  be  taken 
not  to  water  them  too  much,  but  the  foliage  should  receive  a  thorough 
bath  as  often  as  once  a  week  for  the  prevention  of  red  spiders. 

To  grow  carnations  from  seed,  sow  early  in  boxes  and  transplant  to 
the  flower-bed,  and  when  they  flower  some  of  the  finest  may  be  treated 
for  winter  bloommg  as  above  described. 

The  propogation  of  the  carnation  by  layers  is  a  very  simple  operation. 
When  the  plant  is  in  full  bloom  lay  around  it  some  good  well-rotted 
manure,  which  mix  with  the  soil  well ;  remove  the  lower  leaves  of  the 
shoots  selected,  pass  the  penknife  slanting  upwards  half  through  the 
joint ;  fasten  the  shoot  where  so  cut  about  two  inches  under  the  surface 
with  a  small  hooked  peg,  bending  carefully,  so  as  to  not  break  it  at  the 
incision.    Finish  by  pressing  the  earth  around  it  with  the  fingers.    Keep 


no  FLOWERS. 

the  soil  moderately  moist,  and  in  a  month  or  six  weeks  the  layers  may 
be  severed  from  the  parent  plant  and  established  for  themselves. 

FUCHSIAS. 

The  plant  requires  frequent  shifting  into  larger  pots  when  growing. 
The  pot  must  be  shaded,  for  if  set  in  a  window  where  the  rays  of  the 
sun  strike  the  side  of  the  pot  the  leaves  will  drop  and  the  buds  blight, 
because  the  little  roots  which  cling  to  the  inside  of  the  pot,  and  are  the 
feeders  to  the  plant  get  dried  and  burned  up,  from  the  absorption  of 
heat  from  the  sun  through  glass.  A  very  warm,  dry  atmosphere  is  not 
favorable  to  their  growth;  the  temperature  should  be  from  55  to  68 
degrees  with  plenty  of  light  and  air,  but  not  so  much  sun  as  geraniums 
and  roses.  They  can  be  placed  in  the  cellar  in  October ;  do  not  water 
them  ;  let  them  lose  every  leaf.  Late  in  January  take  them  out  and  cut 
back  severely.  When  they  start  to  grow  give  them  a  good  supply  of 
water,  without  keeping  them  soaking  wet.  They  require  good,  rich 
earth,  with  about  one-fifth  sand;  liquid  manure  once  a  week  will 
greatly  encourage  their  growth.  If  the  plants  drop  their  leaves,  gra- 
dually cease  watering,  then  put  them  to  rest  for  the  winter,  and  in 
spring  they  will  sprout  again,  much  benefited  for  the  season  of  rest. 

Certain  varieties  of  fuchsias  are  good  winter  bloomers  and  are  all 
excellent  window  plants.  They  are  voracious  feeders,  however,  and 
will  not  thrive  upon  the  same  diet  as  geraniums  will  A  liberal  quantity 
of  well-decayed  manure  must  be  given  them.  They  are  very  fond  of 
sulphate  of  iron,  and  some  people  put  rusty  nails  in  the  earth  they  are 
grown  in. 

Fuchsias  for  winter  blooming  must  be  put  through  a  course  of  train- 
ing in  the  summer,  by  pinching  off  the  flowers  as  fast  as  they  appear. 
The  varieties  called  Speciosa  and  Lustre  are  the  best. 

GERANIUMS. 

Geraniums  are  very  easy  to  cultivate  if  properly  managed.  To  begin 
with,  about  midsummer,  and  so  along  up  to  the  last  of  October,  obtain 
young,  healthy  cuttings.  To  root  them  successfully,  take  coarse,  clean 
sand,  about  three  inches  in  depth,  insert  the  cuttings  about  one  to  one 
and  a  half  inches  therein,  press  the  sand  firmly  around  them,  and  water 
freely  at  first ;  afterwards  only  water  sparingly,  and,  as  soon  as  they 
commence  to  grow,  pinch  back  to  make  them  stocky,  or  throw  out 
branches ;  for,  if  left  to  grov/  of  their  own  accord  or  will,  you  will  have 
plants  very  awkward  in  appearance.  Pot  them  now  in  two-inch  pots, 
using  soil  made  up  of  two-thirds  garden  soil,  one-third  leaf  mold,  and 
a  little  sand  to  keep  it  porous.  In  the  autumn,  change  them  into 
three- inch  pots,  and  get  them  into  the  windows  before  fires  are  made, 
and  thereby  acclimatize  them.      Geraniums   treated   in  this  way  will 


GERANIUMS,  HI 

bloom  about  the  ist  of  January,  if  in  a  sunn.y  window,  and  continue  to 
bloom  all  winter. 

Sometimes  the  leaves  turn  yellow  and  black.  This  is  a  sign  they  are 
having  too  much  water. 

In  summer  they  should  be  bedded  out,  and  the  garden  will  be  a  mass 
of  bloom  until  frost.  Start  new  plants  each  year,  for  it  is  the  young 
wood  that  is  depended  upon  for  bloom. 

Geraniums  are  very  easily  grown  from  seed.  Sow  in  very  sandy  soil 
at  almost  any  time — in-doors,  of  co'd-rse — and,  as  soon  as  the  seedlings 
can  be  handled,  pot  off  into  smallest-size  pots. 

Keep  them  growing  on  until  the  roots  show  through  the  hole  in  the 
bottom,  then  shift  into  next  size.     In  this  they  will  bloom. 

The  leaves  are  distmguished  as  follows :  Ivy-leaved,  zonal,  sweet- 
scented,  and  fine-flowered.  Of  the  ivy-leaved  the  bronzy-red  leaf,  with 
a  golden  edge,  makes  a  showy  vine  for  a  hanging  basket.  Of  the  zonal 
or  horse-shoe  variety,  Happy  Thought  is  odd  looking,  having  a  dark 
green  leaf  with  a  gold-colored  center.  In  tri-colors,  Madame  Pollock, 
Lady  Cullen  and  sunset  are  very  pretty.  The  sweet-scented  are  best 
known  of  all,  and  are  beautiful  for  a  bouquet.  The  lemon  and  nut- 
meg have  miniature  foliage.  The  rose  has  a  large,  finely-cut  leaf  and 
delicate  scent.  Some  of  the  dwarf  varieties  have  flowers  as  large  as 
large  plants.  The  flowers  are  in  every  shade  of  scarlet,  crimson,  orange, 
white,  pink  and  rose.     Cold  does  not  easily  affect  them. 

There  is,  perhaps,  no  class  of  plants  so  indispensable  for  bedding  as 
the  geranium,  but  in  selecting  varieties  it  is  important  to  choose  sorts 
which  stand  the  sun  well,  for  many  that  do  well  in  the  greenhouse,  or 
in  a  shady  situation,  fail  to  give  satisfaction  when  exposed  to  the  sun. 
This  is  especially  the  case  with  some  of  the  bronze  and  tri-colored  varie- 
ties. Baltet  is  a  very  fine,  double  white  flowered  variety.  Lorraine  is 
the  very  best  scarlet  grown.  Jean  Sisley  is  a  good  one,  scarlet  with 
white  eye.  Ralph  has  beautiful  dark  crimson  flowers ;  it  is  a  grand 
bloomer,  but  unfortunately  the  petals  drop  very  early.  Jealousy  is  the 
nearest  approach  to  a  yellow  yet  sent  out.  White  Tom  Thumb  is  dwarf 
in  habit,  and  an  extremely  pretty  plant,  having  very  distinct  marked 
zones  on  the  leaves. 

To  get  a  nice  symmetrical  plant,  when  about  four  inches  high,  pinch 
out  the  two  uppermost  leaves,  which  will  cause  the  plant  to  throw  out 
lateral  branches 

If  you  do  not  wish  your  geraniums  tall,  when  you  plant  them  out  of 
doors  and  wish  to  cover  a  large  space  with  them,  just  peg  the  branches 
very  carefully  down  with  a  forked  twig  and  you  will  have  double  the 
bloom  from  them  in  this  position.  This  can  also  be  done  to  plants  in 
pots  by  mnking  a  little  frame  of  laths;  fasten  it  to  the  top  of  the  pot, 
then  carefully  bend  the  hmbs,  little  by  little,  and  tie  them  to  it;  the 


112  FLOWERS. 

plant  will  grow  broad,  wide,  will  soon  cover  the  frame,  and  will  not  be 
so  liable  to  be  broken  by  the  wind  or  upset  in  a  storm. 

Heliotropes  can  also  be  trained  in  this  way ;  they  are  among  the  best 
plants  for  pegging  down,  as  their  limbs  will  bend  any  way,  and,  like 
verbenas  and  geraniums,  their  blooms  grow  upward.  Fuchsias  do  bet- 
ter grown  as  standards,  as  their  blossoms  hang  downward,  and  would 
trail  on  the  ground  and  be  spoiled  in  rainy  weather.  You  will  find  by 
this  pegging  arrangement  that  the  buds  at  the  joints,  to  all  appearance 
dormant,  will  grow  and  shoot  out  young  stems ;  from  those  you  get 
your  bloom. 

PANSIES. 

Pansies  prefer  shade.  A  cool,  moist  situation  suits  them  best,  par- 
ticularly in  hot  summers ;  for  that  reason,  never  plant  them  in  raised 
beds,  where  the  intense  heat  will  rapidly  absorb  every  particle  of  mois- 
ture. Choose  rather  a  bed  cut  in  the  lawn,  or,  better  still,  the  shady 
side  of  a  house.  Pansies  produce  seed  very  freely,  which  may  be  sowed 
early  in  the  spring,  and  the  young  plants  will  bloom  in  the  autumn. 
Should  they  produce  flowers  in  the  summer  they  will  be  small,  and  it  is 
a  good  plan  to  remove  them.  As  the  weather  grows  cooler  they  will 
increase  in  size  and  beauty.  It  sometimes  happens  that  if  the  seed  be 
left  on  too  long  the  pods  burst  open,  and  from  this  self-sown  seed 
numerous  young  plants  will  spring  up  in  the  autumn.  If  these  seed- 
lings be  taken  up  any  time  in  September  or  October,  and  planted  out  in 
beds,  they  will  flower  the  next  spring.  Pansies  grow  very  readily,  and 
soon  spread  widely,  but  the  largest  and  best  formed  flowers  are  always 
found  on  young,  vigorous  plants. 

Seed  may  be  sown  in  the  hot-bed  or  open  ground.  If  young  plants 
are  grown  in  the  autumn  and  kept  in  a  frame  during  the  winter  they 
will  be  ready  to  set  out  very  early  in  the  spring  and  give  flowers  until 
hot  weather.  If  seed  is  sown  in  the  spring,  get  it  in  as  early  as  possi- 
ble, so  as  to  have  plants  ready  to^  flower  during  the  spring  rains.  Seed 
sown  in  a  cool,  shady  place,  and  well  watered  until  up,  will  make  plants 
for  autumn  flowering. 

Pansies  will  last  from  April  until  December,  and  with  the  protection 
of  a  cold  frame  (which  is  simply  four  boards  nailed  together  and  an  old 
window-sash  laid  over),     one  can  pick  pansies  the  year  round. 

ROSES. 

The  ever  blooming  roses  are  decidedly  the  best  for  house  culture  in 
pots,  because  they  bloom  quicker  and  more  continuously  than  any 
others,  and  besides  this,  their  style  and  habit  of  growth  is  more  bushy 
and  better  adapted  to  the  purpose.  They  can  be  kept  nicely  with  other 
growing  plants,  and  with  proper  attention  to  their  requirements  will 
bloom  freely.     Do  not  use  too  large  pots,  if  possible  not  more  than  three 


TUBEROSES.  113 

or  four  inches.  The  rule  is,  one  size  larger  than  the  plants  have  been 
grown  in.  The  smaller  the  pot — provided,  of  course,  it  is  large  enough 
to  contain  the  plant— the  quicker  and  stronger  the  plant  will  grow.  It 
is  very  difficult  to  get  a  small  plant  to  live  and  grow  in  a  large  pot.  A 
rose  will  not  bloom  much  till  the  pot  is  well  filled  with  roots  ;  therefore, 
small  pots  facilitate  quick  bloom.  If  the  pots  are  old  they  should  be 
thoroughly  washed.  If  new  they  should  be  soaked  in  water,  otherwise 
they  will  absorb  the  moisture  from  the  plant.  Have  good,  rich  soil, 
mellow  and  friable.  That  made  from  old,  decomposed  sods  is  best.  If 
manure  is  used,  it  should  be  old  and  thoroughly  composted;  fresh 
manure  is  very  injurious.  Put  some  bits  of  charcoal,  broken  crockery, 
or  other  similar  material,  in  the  bottom  of  each  pot,  to  facilitate  drain- 
age, then  enougli  tine  earth  to  raise  the  plant  to  a  proper  height.  It 
should  not  be  much  deeper  than  it  was  before.  Next  put  in  the  plant 
and  spread  out  the  roots  as  naturally  as  possible ;  then  fill  in  fine  earth 
and  press  down  firmly  with  the  hand.  When  done  the  pot  should  not 
be  quite  full ;  a  little  space  is  needed  for-  water.  When  first  potted, 
water  thoroughly,  and  if  the  sun  is  strong  shade  for  a  few  days ;  then 
give  full  light  and  air.  Though  the  plant  should  not  be  allowed  to 
wither  for  want  of  water,  the  earth  should  get  moderately  dry  before 
watering  again.  Too  much  water  is  worse  than  not  enough.  Very 
little  water  is  needed  until  the  plant  starts  to  grow. 

Roses  can  be  made  to  bloom  in  winter,  provided  their  wants  are 
studied  and  the  proper  treatment  given.  It  is  useless  to  dig  up- a  rose 
plant  in  the  fall,  carefully  pot  it  and  expect  it  to  bloom  that  winter,  as 
some  of  our  bedding  plants — geraniums,  for  instance — will  do.  Roses 
intended  for  winter  blooming  must  be  grown  in  pots  during  the  sum- 
mer months,  in  order  that  they  may  join  working  roots.  These  are  the 
little  white  fibres  you  will  see  among  the  other  roots,  and  are  the  chief 
feeders  of  the  plant.  When  the  roots  have  turned  to  a  dark  brown  color 
their  day  of  usefulness  has  passed. 

Roses  in  the  ever-blooming  class  may  be  set  out  as  soon  as  the 
weather  is  settled  and  they  will  commence  to  bloom  immediately.  To 
keep  them  over  winter  do  this  :  Just  before  winter  sets  in,  cut  the  plants 
to  within  six  inches  of  the  ground,  dig  up  the  roots  and  pack  them  in 
nice  mellow  soil  in  a  corner  of  the  cellar  that  has  no  window  in  it.  The 
soil  should  be  well  pressed  down  on  the  root,  and  only  give  them  water 
when  the  earth  looks  as  dry  as  dust,  because  plants  at  rest  as  they  are, 
require  very  little  water. 

TUBEROSES. 

The  best  bulbs  for  flowering  are  those  which  are  large  and  plump. 

Set  them  out  in  the  latter  part  of  May,  first  preparing  the  ground  by 

deep  spading,   and   enriching  with  a  liberal  dressing  of  well-decayed 

manure ;  then  plant  the  bulbs  in  rows  twelve  inches  apart  and  six  inches 

8 


114:  FLOWERS. 

apart  in  the  row,  setting  them  two  or  three  inches  deep.  Keep  the 
ground  at  all  times  free  from  weeds,  and  well  stirred  by  the  use  of  a 
hoe.  After  the  first  frost  has  cut  down  the  tops,  which,  usually  occurs 
in  October,  the  bulbs  should  be  Hfted  and  left  in  the  sun  a  day  or  two 
to  dry,  being  careful  to  protect  from  frost  at  night.  When  thoroughly 
dried,  they  should  be  cleaned,  removing  the  leaves  and  allowing  two  or 
three  inches  of  the  stalk  to  remain ;  then  store  in  a  warm  closet  until 
ready  for  planting.  Just  before  planting  again,  remove  all  the  offsets, 
and,  if  needed,  start  at  the  proper  time  in  order  to  have  bulbs  for  flow- 
ering the  following  year. 

The  bulbs  for  flowering  may  be  started  at  almost  any  time,  and  flor- 
ists plant  them  every  two  weeks  to  have  a  succession  of  bloom.  The 
tuberose  is  a  native  of  a  warm  climate,  and  must  have  plenty  of  heat  and 
moisture  for  its  full  development.  With  plenty  of  heat  you  cannot  get 
too  much  moisture,  but  you  can  easily  get  too  much  moisture,  which 
will  cause  the  bulbs  to  rot,  when  you  have  not  the  necessary  heat. 
A  tuberose  bulb,  no  matter  how  dry  and  warm  it  has  been  kept,  will  not 
always  bloom.  Examine  them  carefully,  and  if  there  is  sign  of  life  in 
the  large  bulb  it  is  safe  to  bloom  ;  but  be  careful,  for  if  you  inadvert- 
antly break  the  center  shoot,  it  will  be  at  the  expense  of  the  bulb,  because 
it  will  surely  decay.  To  get  flowers  about  the  middle  of  April,  or  early 
in  May,  the  roots  should  be  put  into  earth  in  a  greenhouse,  hot-bed,  or 
even  a  warm  room,  first  removing  all  side  shoots.  In  about  five  or  six 
weeks  after,  they  may  be  put  in  the  garden,  where  they  will  usually 
flower  in  August.  The  very  small  bulbs  or  offsets  are  planted  like  peas, 
in  rows  about  one  foot  apart,  six  inches  between  every  two  bulbs  in  the 
row,  and  three  or  four  inches  deep.  Keep  the  ground  mellow  and  clean 
by  using  the  hoe. 

TULIPS. 

They  are  of  the  easiest  possible  culture,  and  while  any  good  garden 
soil  will  grow  them,  they  do  best  in  a  well  drained  sandy  loam,  enriched 
with  thoroughly  well  rotted  manure.  The  proper  season  for  planting 
them  in  beds  is  in  the  months  of  October  and  November.  Plant  them 
in  circular  beds,  allowing  five  inches  between  each  bulb  of  the  early 
kinds  and  six  inches  for  late  varieties,  covering  all  to  the  depth  of  three 
inches.  All  the  care  necessary  after  this  is  to  throw  some  slight  pro- 
tection over  the  beds  before  winter  sets  in,  to  be  removed  in  the  spring. 

The  earliest  variety  is  the  Duke  Van  Tholl,  small,  red,  white  and  yel- 
low. Set  six  inches  apart.  The  single  and  double  early  kinds  in  many 
bright  hues,  and  the  half  grotesque-looking  "parrots,"  in  their  dazzling 
fringed  robes  of  scarlet  and  gold,  bloom  next.  Then  the  double  late 
ones,  flaunting  their  gaudy  colors.  The  class,  called  by  florists  "  single 
late  show  tuKps."  merits  special  attention.  They  are  divided  into  the 
"  by-blooms,"  with  white  ground  and  different  markings,  the  "  bizarres," 


HYACINTHS.  115 

a  yellow  ground  with  stripes  of  other  colors,  and  the  "  roses,"  with  white 
ground  and  exquisite  pencilings  of  rose  and  red.  Plant  eight  or  ten 
inches  apart.     Treat  as  hyacinths. 

VERBENAS. 

It  does  not  seem  generally  known  that  verbenas  raised  from  seed  will 
produce  larger  flowers  and  more  of  them  than  on  those  plants  growm 
by  a  florisi  from  a  cutting.  Nevertheless  such  is  the  case,  and  another 
thing  to  recommend  these  seedlings  to  favor  is  that  they  are  nearly 
always  fragrant. 

If  one  desires  to  make  a  bed  of  verbenas  in  distinct  colors,  then 
recourse  must  be  had  to  the  florist,  for  as  he  propagates  from  named 
varieties,  of  which  he  knows  their  colors  and  habits,  he  is  able  to  sup- 
ply scarlet,  white,  purple,  striped  and  many  other  shades.  Seedlings  are 
not  to  be  relied  upon  to  produce  certain  colors. 

It  scarcely  pays  to  propagate  verbenas  to  keep  over  winter,  since  they 
are  easily  grown  from  seed  sown  during  the  winter.  Still,  there  are 
some  remarkably  choice  specimens  that  we  want  for  stock  another  sea- 
son. To  do  this,  remove  the  young  wood,  take  away  the  two  leaves 
next  above  a  joint,  then  with  a  very  sharp  knife  cut  straight  across  the 
slip  immediately  below  the  joint.  They  are  very  liable  to  damp  off — 
but  give  less  water  and  try  again. 

HYACINTHS. 

The  soil  for  bulbs  must  be  very  rich,  deep  and  well-drained,  and 
should  contain  a  good  proportion — about  one-third — of  sand.  In 
planting  always  measure  the  depth  from  the  top  of  the  bulb.  The 
small  bulbs  and  tubers,  such  as  the  crocus,  snow-drop  and  Spanish  iris, 
ranunculus  and  anemone,  should  be  planted  about  two  inches  deep ; 
tulips,  jonquils  and  narcissus,  three  inches ;  hyacinths,  four,  and  crown 
imperial,  five. 

The  hardy  varieties  may  all  be  planted  outdoors  in  the  North  or  in 
the  South,  at  any  time  from  October  to  January.  In  the  Northern 
States  the  beds  should  be  covered  with  leaves  or  hay  before  the  weather 
becomes  very  cold.  This  covering  may  be  removed  when  the  first  green 
leaves  begin  peeping  above  ground  in  the  spring.  But  in  the  South  no 
protection  is  needed,  and  the  best  success  has  been  when  the  bulbs 
were  left  in  the  ground  all  the  time.  An  occasional  weeding  and  dig- 
ging among  the  roots  when  they  first  come  up  and  an  annual  rich  top- 
dressing  from  the  compost  heap,  given  in  October  or  November,  will 
be  all  the  attention  required  by  a  bed  of  hardy  bulbs.  After  two  or 
three  years  the  roots  will  become  too  much  crowded  and  need  thmning 
out.  No  bulb  requires  so  rich  soil  as  the  hyacinth  ;  if  planted  in  poor 
ground  the  flowers  will  do  very  well  for  the  first  year,  but  be  trifling 


116  FLOWERS. 

afterwards ;  and  if  planted  more  shallow  than  four  inches,  the  heat  of 
the  sun  will  cause  the  bulbs  to  split  and  divide  into  innumerable  small 
roots  that  will  not  bloom  well  for  two  or  three  years. 

Hyacinths  should  be  set  eight  inches  apart  in  rows  and  so  arranged 
that  the  colors  harmonize  well.  Blue  and  purple  do  not  form  a  pretty 
contrast,  nor  red  with  either  of  these  colors.  Nothing  can  be  more 
lovely  than  a  combination  of  yellow  and  blue  ;  white  and  crimson,  or 
yellow  and  white.  Purple  may  come  with  good  effect  between  white 
and  yellow,  and  white  between  red  and  blue.  No  collection  is  complete 
without  a  few  single  Roman  hyacinths,  as  they  are  the  earliest  of  all 
varieties. 

Bulbs,  when  flowered  in  the  house,  should  be  kept  in  as  cool  a  room 
a-s  possible — a  few  degrees  above  freezing  will  answer.  A  very  satis- 
factory way  to  raise  them  is  this :  Take  a  conimon  shallow  box, 
ornament  it  with  sticks  or  bark,  and  fill  with  sandy  earth,  mixed  with 
moss  finely  broken  up.  Then  plant  a  row  or  two  of  crocuses  on  the 
outside  and  fill  up  with  tulips,  narcissus  and  hyacinths,  making  a  minia- 
ture bulb  garden.  After  planting,  the  whole  can  be  covered  with  moss, 
such  as  is  found  on  logs  in  damp  woods.  The  plants  will  find  their 
way  through  the  moss.  Keep  this  in  a  cool  room  where  the  plants  will 
not  freeze.  As  fast  as  the  plants  come  into  flower,  take  them  up  and 
place  in  glasses  of  water,  and  you  can  thus  keep  up  a  supply  for  the 
parlor  or  sitting  room  for  a  long  timie. 

To  grow  hyacinths  in  glasses :  First  select  only  dark  colors,  blue  or 
red  for  instance,  and  those  of  the  long  narrow  or  Belgian  pattern  in 
preference  to  the  more  elaborate  styles.  The  hyacinth  makes  long, 
white  roots,  and  to  make  them  quickly  and  before  it  starts  into  leaf 
growth,  the  bulbs,  after  being  either  potted  or  put  in  the  glasses,  must 
be  put  entirely  in  the  dark  for  about  six  weeks.  Always  use  rain  water. 
Fill  the  glasses  so  that  the  water  will  barely  touch  the  bottom  of  the 
bulb.  The  water  should  be  changed  as  often  as  once  in  three  weeks, 
using  pure  rain  water  of  the  same  temperature  as  you  took  them  out  of. 
A  piece  of  charcoal  in  the  water  will  cause  it  to  keep  sweet  longer.  A 
little  ammonia  dissolved  in  the  water  will  give  the  flowers  a  much 
brighter  color. 

To  grow  hyacinths  in  sand,  take  a  soup  plate,  glass  dish,  china  bowl, 
or  in  fact  anything  which  will  retain  moisture,  and  fill  it  heaping  full  of 
sand.  Now  push  a  hyacinth  bulb  carefully  into  the  center,  allowing 
the  whole  bulb  to  be  covered  except  the  crown,  and  set  the  vessel  con- 
taining the  bulbs  in  water  for  a  few  minutes  to  fix  them  in  their  places. 
Set  them  away  in  the  dark  for  a  fortnight,  and  as  often  as  once  a  week 
give  the  sand  a  soaking,  for  it  must  never  be  allowed  to  go  dry  at  any 
time. 

When  hyacinths  have  finished  blooming  in  glasses,  they  should  be  put 


PRO  PA  GA  TING  PLANTS.  117 

into  sandy  loam  and  leaf  mold,  and  watered  as  long  as  the  leaves 
remain  green.  When  the  leaves  turn  yellov^,  take  up  the  bulbs  and  put 
them  where  they  can  get  a  good  deal  of  sun.  All  bulbs,  except  lilies, 
can  be  taken  up  as  soon  as  the  leaves  turn  ripe  and  brown.  After 
taking  them  up,  allow  them  to  dry  in  the  shade  for  a  few  days,  after 
which  label  carefully  and  put  them  away  in  paper  bags  in  a  cool,  dry 
room  until  the  autumn. 

LILIES. 

The  ground  should  be  spaded  very  deeply  and  an  abundance  of  well- 
rotted  manure  worked  in,  but  on  no  account  use  fresh  manure  on  lily 
beds.  If  the  soil  is  heavy  or  clayey,  the  addition  of  sharp  sand  will 
make  it  light  and  porous.  Use  plenty  of  sand  and  mix  into  the  soil 
thoroughly.  If  the  lilies  are  to  be  grown  in  beds  let  these  be  about 
three  feet  wide  and  as  long  as  desiired.  Put  the  bulbs  in  deep.  Six 
inches  is  good,  but  eight  is  better,  and  a  mulch  of  straw  should  be  kept 
over  them  the  first  year. 

Whenever  possible  to  do  so,  lily  bulbs  should  invariably  be  procured 
and  planted  in  the  fall  of  the  year.  After  planting,  it  will  not  be  neces- 
sary to  move  them ;  in  fact  it  will  be  better  not  to  for  three  or  four 
years.  In  moving  them,  be  very  careful  in  lifting  not  to  break  or 
bruise  the  roots  at  the  base  of  the  bulb  ;  if  these  are  injured  it  may 
cause  the  bulb  not  to  bloom  for  the  next  season,  or,  perhaps  to  decay. 
In  growing  the  lily,  to  get  the  best  result,  select  a  perfectly  dry  spot 
where  no  water  will  stand  in  the  winter. 

Calla  lilies  usually  bloom  from  fall  all  through  the  winter  until  quite 
late  in  the  spring.  When  the  flowering  season  is  over,  the  pot  in  which 
it  is  growing  should  be  set  out  doors  under  a  tree  or  other  shady  place 
and  no  water  given  it  whatever.  Along  in  August  or  September  turn 
it  out  of  the  pot,  remove  all  the  small  bulbs  and  reset  the  parent  one  in 
a  four-inch  pot.  When  you  give  water  let  i  be  lukewarm  at  first,  and 
gradually  increase  the  temperature  until  it  is  boiling  hot. 

The  so-called  spotted  calla  lily  is  correctly  Richardia  maculata. 
With  the  exception  that  the  leaves  are  covered  with  white  spots,  it  does 
not  differ  from  the  calla. 

PROPAGATING   PLANTS. 

One  of  the  first  necessary  conditions  is  that  the  plant  from  which  the 
cutting  or  slip  is  taken  must  be  in  vigorous  health.  One  of  the  best  guides 
to  the  proper  condition,  is  when  the  cutting  breaks  or  snaps  clean  off, 
instead  of  bending  or  kneeing.  If  it  snaps  off  so  as  to  break,  it  will 
root  freely ;  if  it  bends  it  is  too  old,  and  though  it  may  root,  it  will  root 
much  slower  and  make  a  weaker  plant. 

The  best  condition  to  root  cuttings  of  the  great  majority  of  green- 
house plants  is  sixty-five  degrees  of  bottom  heat  and  an  atmospheric 


118  FLOWERS. 

temperature  of  fifteen  degrees  less.  Sand  is  the  best  medium  in  which 
to  place  cuttings  ;  color  or  texture  is  of  no  especial  importance.  From 
the  time  the  cuttings  are  inserted  until  they  are  rooted  they  should 
never  be  allowed  to  get  dry ;  it  is  best  to  keep  the  sand  soaked  with 
water.  Kept  thus  saturated  there  is  less  chance  of  the  cutting  getting 
wilted,  for  if  a  cutting  is  once  wilted,  its  juices  are  expended.  Permit- 
ting a  moderate  circulation  of  air  in  the  propagating  house  prevents  the 
germination  of  that  spider-like  web  substance  which  is  known  as 
"  fungus  of  the  cutting  bench."  It  is  best  to  pot  off  the  cuttings  at 
once  when  rooted.  They  should  be  placed  in  small  pots  from  two  to 
two  and  a  half  inches  wide.  In  larger  pots  the  soil  dries  out  too  slowly 
and  the  tender  root  rots. 

A  very  good  propagating  bed  on  a  small  scale  can  be  constructed  by 
anyone  handy  with  tools,  by  having  the  tinner  make  a  tank  three  or  four 
inches  deep  to  hold  water  in.  The  sand  is  laid  on  the  tank  and  the 
water  is  heated  by  a  small  lamp,  care  being  taken  to  make  a  passage  to 
the  open  air  for  the  escape  of  gas.  The  cost  of  such  a  case,  if  the  tank 
is  made  of  zinc,  will  be  about  five  dollars,  and  less  if  made  of  sheet  iron. 

The  glass  case  that  goes  over  the  whole  is  made  on  the  plan  of  a 
miniature  greenhouse,  and  the  top  should  be  removable  at  pleasure  to 
admit  air.  A  thermometer  ought  to  be  kept  constantly  imbedded  in 
the  sand  so  that  the  bottom  heat  is  never  allowed  to  get  above  seventy- 
five  degrees.  Bottom  heat — a  technical  term  used  in  floriculture — is 
secured  by  the  heat  of  a  furnace  or  by  warm  water  or  stable  manure, 
and  in  some  cases  by  steam. 

The  "  saucer  system  "  is  a  simple  method  of  propagating  plants,  and 
is  the  safest  of  all  procedures  in  inexperienced  hands.  Common  sau- 
cers or  plates  may  be  used  to  hold  the  sand  in  which  the  cuttings  are 
placed.  The  sand  is  put  in,  to  the  depth  of  an  inch  or  so,  and  the  cuttings 
inserted  in  it  close  enough  to  touch  each  other.  The  sand  is  then 
watered  until  it  becomes  in  the  condition  of  mud ;  then  placed  on  the  shelf 
of  the  greenhouse  or  in  the  window-sill  of  the  sitting-room,  fully  exposed 
to  the  sun  and  never  shaded.  But  one  condition  is  essential  to  success  : 
Until  the  cuttings  become  rooted  the  sand  must  be  kept  continually 
saturated.  If  once  permitted  to  dry  up,  exposed  to  the  sun  as  they  are, 
the  cuttings  will  quickly  wilt  and  the  whole  operation  will  be  defeated. 
When  the  cuttings  are  rooted  they  should  be  potted  in  small  pots  and 
treated  carefully  by  shading  and  watering. 

POTTING  AND  RE-POTTING. 

If  possible,  never  use  any  but  the  common  clay  pots,  the  fancy  ones 
are  a  failure  as  regards  the  health  of  the  plants.  Do  not  use  saucers 
under  the  pots,  as  the  water  that  may  leak  through  has  a  tendency 
to  draw  the  roots  to  the  bottom  of  the  pot  and  to  perish  or  founder 


EXTERMINATING  INSECTS  AND  WORMS,        119 

them.  Gravel  or  broken  crockery  should  be  put  into  the  bottom  of  the 
pot  for  drainage. 

You  can  have  an  improved  flower  pot,  if  made  in  this  way :  Get 
one  with  holes  in  the  side  instead  of  in  the  bottom.  All  cultivators 
know  the  difficulty  experienced  when  the  ordinary  flower-pot  is  placed 
on  a  bench  covered  with  sand  or  soil.  The  outlet  often  becomes  com- 
pletely closed  by  the  washing  of  the  soil  through  the  outlet,  and,  being 
closed  by  the  sand,  the  drainage  becomes  stopped  as  completely  as  if 
there  was  no  orifice  at  all  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot.  Again,  worms 
breed  quickly  in  the  sand  or  soil,  and  seem  to  take  a  special  pleasure  in 
crawling  under  and  through  the  holes  in  the  bottom  of  the  pots,  to  get 
at  the  rich  soil  which  they  contain.  This  improved  pot  is  safe  from  the 
first  difficulty,  as  the  holes,  being  on  the  sides  of  the  pot,  cannot  be 
clogged  by  the  sand  ;  while  it  is  far  less  tempting  to  the  worm,  as  a  spe- 
cial effort  must  be  made  before  the  hole  can  be  reached.  Still  another 
advantage  is  that,  as  these  orifices  are  placed  above  the  bottom,  air  is 
admitted  more  freely  to  the  roots,  a  matter  which  is  very  essential  to 
the  well-being  of  plants. 

Sometimes  plants  become  pot-bound.  To  know  this,  turn  the  pot 
over,  with  your  hand  on  the  top,  tap  the  side  or  bottom,  and  if  it 
comes  out  easy  it  is  all  right,  but  if  it  sticks,  it  may  be  that  it  is  full  of 
roots  and  needs  to  be  changed  to  a  size  larger  pot.  You  can  in  this 
way  also  see  if  worms  are  infesting  it,  and  remove  them  and  save  your 
choice  plants. 

A  plant  needs  re-potting  when  the  roots  have  formed  a  compact 
mass  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot.  To  ascertain  this,  just  set  the  pot  in 
water,  that  the  ball  of  earth  may  be  saturated.  Now  spread  the  fin- 
gers across  the  top  of  the  pot,  invert  it,  and  a  brisk  tap  of  the  rim  on 
a  shelf  will  make  the  ball  come  out.  If  it  does  need  re-potting,  care- 
fully shake  out  the  roots  and  shift  into  a  size  or  two  larger,  filling  up 
the  space  with  new  soil.  If  you  want  flowers  very  early,  pack  the  soil 
into  the  pots  as  lightly  as  possible.  Lily  bulbs  and  roses  should  be 
potted  tightly. 

EXTERMINATING  INSECTS  AND  WORMS. 

The  most  effectual  remedy  for  green  fly  is  fumigation  with  tobacco. 
Some  soft-wooded  plants,  such  as  salvias,  heliotropes,  etc.,  will  not  bear 
fumigation  without  injuring  their  leaves,  and  for  these  a  weak  solution 
is  quite  effectual.  Steep  some  tobacco  in  water,  then  sprinkle  the  plant 
with  the  solution,  afterward  syringe  with  clean  water.  A  little  turpen- 
tine diluted  with  water  (one  part  to  sixteen),  will  destroy  the  mealy  bug. 
The  red  spider  is  a  very  small  insect,  revealing  its  presence  by  the 
browned  appearance  of  the  leaves.  Sprinkle  your  plants  often,  and  you 
will  not  be  troubled  with  red  spider ;  but  wherever  the  air  is  dry  and 


120  FLOWERS, 

close  there  is  his  delight.  Alcohol,  applied  with  a  camel's  hair  brush, 
will  kill  any  insect  it  touches.  Plants,  treated  with  these  remedies,  must 
be  syringed  immediately  thereafter  with  clear  water.  To  kill  white 
worms  in  flower  pots  take  common  lime. 

This  is  a  sure  remedy  for  rose  slugs :  Make  a  tea  of  tobacco  stems 
and  a  soapsuds  of  whale  oil  or  carbolic  soap ;  mix  and  apply  to  the 
bush  with  a  sprmkler,  turning  the  bush  so  as  to  wet  the  under  as  well 
as  the  upper  part  of  the  leaves.  Apply  before  sunrise  three  or  four 
times.  About  June  small  green  worms  appear  on  the  bushes,  which 
can  be  destroyed  by  this  remedy.  Take  four  gallons  of  water,  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  Paris  green ;  stir  thoroughly  and  apply  to  the  bushes 
with  a  sprinkler  early  in  the  morning.  Keep  the  water  well  stirred 
while  applying,  or  the  last  in  the  pot  will  be  too  strong  and  kill  the 
leaves. 

Angle  worms  at  the  root  of  plants  can  be  made  to  come  to  the  sur- 
face by  inserting  a  fine  hair-pin  or  darning  needle  into  the  mold,  and 
then  pouring  lime  water  upon  the  soil.  This  will  be  found  to  be  good 
for  the  health  of  the  plants,  and  will  also  keep  the  foliage  fresh  and 
green. 

To  destroy  small  green  flies  on  roses  in  the  greenhouse  put  hot  coals 
on  the  floor,  on  which  dampened  tobacco  stems  are  laid.  The  dense 
smoke  kills  the  pests. 

To  kill  white  worms  in  the  soil,  also  fish  worm,  tie  soot  in  a  rag,  as 

the  old-fashioned  way  of   putting  indigo  in  water  on  wash  days,  and 

dip  and  squeeze  until  the  water   is  black.     Give  your  plants  some  of 

this  twice  a  week.     It   is  a  valuable  fertilizer  as   well  as   an   insect 

destroyer.     This  is  another  way :    Stick  three  or  four  common  matches 

down  into  the  soil,  also  one  or  two  up  into  the  drain  opening.     The 

phosphorus  on  the  match  is  certain  death  to  animal  life  and  a  powerful 

fertilizer  for  plants. 

FERTILIZERS. 

Plants  which  are  cultivated  in  pots  or  tubs  require  a  great  deal  of 
water,  and  if  they  thrive  well,  should  have  stimulating  fertilizers.  For 
hard-wooded,  slow-growing  plants,  very  fine  bone — flour  of  bone — sold 
by  seedsmen  for  the  purpose,  is  perhaps  the  best  ;  a  few  tablespoonfuls 
being  forked  into  the  soil  of  the  pot.  For  soft-wooded,  quick-growers, 
a  liquid  fertilizer  may  be  used.  This  may  be  guano,  a  teaspoonful  to  a 
gallon  of  water ;  soot,  two  tablespoonfuls  to  a  gallon,  or  the  water  of 
ammonia  (liquid  hartshorn)  of  the  drug  stores,  an  ounce  to  the  gallon. 
Water  the  plants  with  either  of  these  instead  of  clear  water  once  or 
twice  a  week,  as  the  conditipn  of  the  plant  requires.  No  invariable 
rule  can  be  given. 

Another,  and  one  readily  procured  is  this :  Put  one  bushel  of  the 
clippings  from  horses'  hoofs  into  a  barrel,  and  fill  it  up  with  water.    Let 


CUNSER  VA  TOR  Y  CHA  T.  12i 

it  stand  for  a  week,  when  it  is  ready  for  use.  Apply  with  a  watering 
pot.  All  bedding  plants  can  be  watered  with  this  liquid  every  other 
day,  if  they  are  not  pot-bound ;  re-potted  plants  should  be  watered 
once  a  week  until  they  have  plenty  of  working  roots  to  take  up  the 
manure.  It  will  also  be  found  excellent  for  hard-wooded  plants  if  used 
once  or  twice  a  week.  Two  or  three  weeks  after  the  plants  have  been 
watered  with  the  manure,  the  foliage  generally  changes  from  a  green 
to  a  golden  yellow,  moving  from  the  stem  down  to  a  point  of  the  leaf, 
which,  however,  lasts  only  for  a  few  weeks,  when  it  changes  to  a  dark, 
glossy  green.  Plants  under  this  watering  grow  very  strong ;  the  flowers 
are  very  large  and  bright  in  color.  •  Plants  thus  treated  can  be  kept  in 
very  small  pots  for  a  long  time  without  being  transplanted.  Flowers 
watered  with  this  liquid  manure  will  bring  twenty-five  per  cent  more 
than  otherwise ;  besides,  being  in  small  pots,  they  are  lighter,  can  be 
packed  closer,  and  are  easier  to  be  handled.  The  fertilizer  is  not  a 
stimulant,  but  a  plant  food,  and  plants  that  are  watered  with  it,  if 
planted  out,  will  continue  growing  and  keep  in  good  growth,  which 
cannot  be  said  of  guano.  It  is  as  powerful  as  guano,  as  quick  in 
action,  and  more  lasting. 

It  will  not  do  the  slightest  harm  to  the  foliage ;  most  other  liquid 
manures  spoil  the  foliage  when  they  come  in  contact  with  it.  It  forms 
no  crust  on  the  pots  or  soil.  It  is  cheaper  than  any  other  good  fertil- 
izer which  is  used  in  liquid  form.  The  chips  need  to  be  renewed  or 
replaced  only  twice  a  year,  while  the  water  can  be  withdrawn  every 
day.  When  liquid  guano  is  used  too  strong  it  will  cause  the  plants  to 
drop  all  their  leaves.  This  liquid  will  not,  even  if  used  once  or  twice  a 
day  for  a  short  time. 

This  is  also  a  simple  and  effectual  fertilizer :  Get  some  soot  from  a 
chimney  or  stove  where  wood  is  used  for  fuel,  put  it  in  an  old  pitcher 
and  pour  hot  water  upon  it.  When  cool,  use  it  to  water  the  plants 
every  few  days.  When  it  is  all  used,  fill  up  the  pitcher  again  with  hot 
water.  The  effect  upon  roses  that  have  almost  hopelessly  deteriorated 
is  wonderful,  in  producing  a  rapid  growth  of  thrifty  shoots,  with  large, 
thick  leaves  and  a  great  number  of  richly  tinted  roses.  Never  despair 
of  a  decayed  rosebush  until  this  has  been  tried. 

CONSERVATORY    CHAT. 

A  very  pretty  fence  can  be  made  for  small  gardens  by  a  number  of 
stakes  of  equal  length,  pointed  at  one  end  to  drive  into  the  ground, 
square  at  the  top  and  painted  green.  Then  place  them  at  an  equal  dis- 
tances around  the  garden  and  bore  holes  about  six  or  seven  inches  apart 
for  the  twine,  which  should  be  brown  linen.  Pass  the  twine  through 
the  holes,  in  lines  all  around  the  garden.  Plant  vines  which  run  rapidly, 
such  as  cypress  vine,  Madeira  vine,  nasturtium,  dwarf  convolvulus, 
mountain  fringe,  and  by  midsmnmer  the  fence  will  be  very  beautiful. 


122  FLOWERS. 

A  novel  flower-pot  is  made  in  this  way  :  Take  from  three  to  four  feet 
of  wire  netting  and  bend  it  into  the  shape  of  a  hollow  cylinder  until  the 
ends  meet.  Lace  the  ends  together  with  flexible  wire ;  then  tack  to  one 
end  of  the  cylinder  a  wooden  bottom,  and  you  have  the  pot.  Now  fill 
nearly  full  of  rich,  loamy  earth,  and  plant  in  the  center  a  shrub  or  plant 
of  rapid  growth  ;  then  plant  in  the  sides  of  the  pot,  through  the  wire 
netting,  fern  or  climbers ;  water  well,  and  in  a  little  while  the  wire  will 
be  covered  with  a  rich  mass  of  green. 

If  you  wish  something  bright  for  your  window  as  a  screen  for  your 
pots,  make  a  wide  but  low  screen  to  button  to  the  window  shelf — a 
sort  of  border  for  the  shelf  on  which  they  are  placed.  It  can  be  made 
of  splints  woven  together  with  woolen  cords ;  or  it  may  be  made  of  a 
thin  board  covered  with  chintz,  or  a  border  of  heavy  velvet  wall  paper. 
A  deep  wine  color,  with  a  narrow  gold  border  top  and  bottom,  is  very 
pretty;  or  else  a  lattice  work  made  of  walnut  spHnts  and  lined  with 
scarlet  cloth.  Another  pretty  way  is  to  use  the  tiled  wall-paper ;  or 
the  pots  may  be  placed  in  a  window-box,  covered  with  bark  and  lichens. 
Any  of  the  above  ways  are  pretty,  and  a  bright  color  around  the  pots, 
covering  up  their  ugliness,  will  make  the  plants  look  doubly  beautiful, 

The  color  of  flowers  can  be  changed  at  will  in  this  way.  Pour  a  little 
ammonia  into  a  saucer  and  invert  a  tunnel  over  it.  Place  the  flowers 
in  the  tube  of  the  latter,  and  you  will  find  that  blue,  violet  and  purple 
colored  blossoms  become  a  fine  green ;  carmme  and  crimson  become 
black;  white,  yellow;  while  parti-colored  flowers,  such  as  red  and 
white,  are  changed  to  green  and  yellow.  If  the  flowers  are  immersed 
in  water,. the  natural  color  will  come  back  in  a  few  hours.  If  applied 
in  sufficient  quantity,  the  smoke  of  tobacco  will  change  their  color,  so, 
also,  will  holding  them  over  the  fumes  of  burnmg  matches. 

PRACTICAL  HINTS. 

Frozen  plants  may  be  restored  in  this  way .  As  soon  as  discovered, 
pour  cold  water  over  the  plant,  wetting  every  leaf  thoroughly.  In  a 
few  nloments  it  will  be  crystallized  with  a  thick  coating  of  ice.  In  this 
state  place  it  in  the  dark,  carefully  covered  with  a  newspaper.  The  ice 
will  slowly  melt,  leaving  the  plant  in  its  original  state  of  health,  but  it 
must  be  left  in  a  moderately  cool  place  for  several  days. 

Plants  at  rest  are  usually  stored  away  under  the  benches,  in  the 
greenhouse,  or  by  amateurs  under  a  flower  stand  or  in  the  cellar.  It  is 
unnecessary  to  remove  them  from  their  pots.  A  period  of  six  or  eight 
weeks'  rest  is  generally  allowed  to  fuchsias,  crape  myrtles,  lemon  ver- 
benas and  such  shrubby  plants. 

To  destroy  the  vitality  of  weed  seeds  in  soil  by  baking  will  in  a  great 
measure  destroy  the  fertility  of  the  soil.  A  better  way  is  to  spread  the 
soil  out  thinly  in  a  warm  place  and  keep  it  moist.     In  a  few  days  most 


PRACTICAL  HINTS,  123 

of  the  seeds  will  germinate,  after  which  the  soil  should  be  stirred  and 
allowed  to  become  dry. 

If  the  old  flower  beds  need  renovating,  or  their  soil,  remove  the  top 
and  replace  it  with  new  earth  mixed  with  a  proportion  of  leaf  mold  and 
manure,  equal  parts  of  each.  Chippings  off  hedges,  refuse  wood,  straw, 
etc.,  built  over  a  hole  and  packed  around  with  old  turf,  and  then  burned, 
make  a  capital  dressing  to  dig  into  the  old  soil.  Bedding  plants  do  not 
require  a  rich  soil  as  much  as  a  new  soil. 

Fuchsias,  to  stipe  well,  must  be  cut  off  with  a  heel,  and  not  straight 
across.  Short  cuttings  are  more  Hkely  to  live  than  longer  ones,  and 
they  should  be  cut  off  just  under  a  bud.  Lemon  verbenas  are  best 
propagated  by  layers,  making  a  slit  in  the  layer  on  the  upper  side,  not 
on  the  under,  which  renders  it  more  Ukely  to  snap  asunder. 

Pots  are  just  as  good  for  shading  young  plants  as  some  arrangement 
which  admits  more  light  and  air,  and  at  the  same  time  turns  off  the 
sun's  direct  rays. 

Repot  plants  into  the  next  size  in  which  they  have  been  growing,  but 
most  plants  bloom  more  quickly  by  having  their  roots  cramped  in  small 
pots.  If  you  have  any  sickly  plants,  wash  all  the  dirt  off  the  roots,  and 
give  new  soil  and  clean  pots. 

A  very  good  way  to  send  plants  by  mail  is,  after  having  selected  the 
plants,  choosing  the  smaller  but  well  rooted  ones,  wash  the  soil  from  the 
roots  of  each  plant.  A  layer  of  dry  moss  or  cotton  is  then  spread  on 
two  or  three  thicknesses  of  thick  brown  paper ;  the  plants  are  then  laid 
on  the  moss ;  a  similar  layer  of  moss  is  laid  on  the  roots,  and  then  the 
paper,  moss  and  plants  are  tightly  rolled  up.  Either  additional  paper 
sufficient  to  keep  in  the  moisture,  or  oiled  silk,  should  be  used  for  the 
outer  covering.  The  moss  should  be  half  an  inch  thick.  When  received 
the  plants  should  be  sprinkled  with  tepid  water  to  refresh  them,  then, 
after  standing  about  an  hour,  pot  them  off.  Be  sure  to  remove  the 
moss  from  the  roots. 

Before  frost  comes,  roses  of  the  tender  sorts  should  be  bent  to  the 
ground  and  covered  with  coal  ashes  several  inches  deep,  or  if  one  does 
not  like  the  appearance  of  ashes  on  a  lawn  bed,  the  roses  may  be 
enveloped  in  straw.  All  the  summer  blooming  bulbs,  such  as  dahlias, 
tigridias,  cannas,  gladiolus,  etc.,  should  be  lifted  and  stored  in  a  dry, 
warm  closet.  Tuberose  bulbs  require  extra  care,  for  if  they  get  a  touch 
of  frost  they  are  worthless. 

Plants  in  pots  should  be  watered,  and  that  most  liberally,  when  they 
are  dry,  and  given  no  more  until  they  are  thirsty  again.  If  you  give 
water  every  day  to  some  plants  the  soil  will  soon  become  sodden  and 
sour.  Nearly  all  plants  are  benefited  by  showering  as  often  as  twice  a 
week.  In  the  greenhouse  it  is  done  every  day.  A  brass  syringe  is  the 
best  instrument  for  that  purpose.     It  should  be  filled  with  clear  water. 


124  FLO  WERS. 

and  the  water  thrown  on  the  under  side  of  the  leaves  as  well  as  above, 
to  clean  out  thrips,  and  also  aphis  and  red  spider.  Those  who  have  no 
syringe  can  take  their  plants  to  the  sink  and  with  a  small  wisp  broom, 
such  as  is  used  to  brush  clothes,  give  them  a  nice  shower  bath.  Dip 
the  brush  in  the  water,  then  draw  the  fingers  across  it.  The  object  in 
showering  is  to  make  the  leaves  clean  and  to  cause  the  plant  to  "  break," 
or  put  forth  new  leaves. 

To  sow  evenly  such  fine  seed  as  ferns,  calceolaria,  etc.,  take  a  piece 
of  white  pasteboard,  rub  the  seed  lightly  over  it  until  it  covers  the  exact 
size  of  the  pot  or  box  it  is  to  be  sown  in  ;  then  invert  on  the  soil,  and  by 
tapping  gently  it  will  fall  as  evenly  as  it  was  rubbed  on  the  paste- 
board. 

Seedings  in  general  should  never  be  watered  later  than  an  hour  or  two 
before  sundown,  as  the  damp  surface  is  apt  to  produce  a  fungus  which 
will  cause  every  plant  to  damp  off,  during  the  night. 

Do  not  throw  away  your  coal  ashes  or  leave  them  out  in  the  storms ; 
they  are  valuable  as  an  absorbent  for  night  slops,  also  as  a  deodorizer 
for  vaults.  Used  in  this  way  one  of  the  most  valuable  fertilizers  is 
made. 

Never  allow  weeds  to  get  the  start ;  nip  them  in  the  bud. 

All  plants  are  benefited  by  having  the  ground  stirred  around  them — 
there  is  no  exception  to  the  rule.  The  use  of  the  hoe  or  some  similar 
implement  is  generally  the  easiest  mode  of  keeping  the  ground  free  from 
weeds  or  grass. 

Mildew  is  a  disease  produced  by  sudden  changes  of  temperature,  and 
by  a  long  continuance  of  damp,  cloudy  weather.  The  best  remedies 
'  are  sulphur  and  soot ;  sprinkle  with  water,  and  apply  one  of  the  reme- 
dies as  soon  as  you  observe  the  disease. 

For  shady  places,  pansies,  fuchsias,  lilies  of  the  valley,  and  some 
herbaceous  plants  whose  first  home  was  the  shady  woods,  seem  to  do 
the  best.  The  very  best  effect  is  produced  by  a  bed  of  ornamental  foli- 
age plants.  Take  the  castor  bean  for  the  center  and  around  it  cal- 
edium  escalentum,  next  row  cannas,  and  then  gold  and  silver  leaf  ger- 
aniums, achryanthus,  coleus,  etc. 

Lemon  verbenas,  hydrangeas,  pomegranates,  cactus  and  many  others 
can  be  safely  wintered  in  a  frost-proof  cellar.  Give  just  water  enough 
to  keep  them  alive — say  once  in  a  week.  Bulbs  of  gladiolus,  cannas, 
amaryllis  (hardy  sorts),  caladinius  and  dahlias  will  also  survive,  taking 
care  to  occasionally  look  them  over  and  rub  with  powdered  charcoal  any 
that  show  signs  of  disease.  Tuberoses  must  be  kept  in  a  very  warm 
place,  or  the  germ  of  the  flower  will  be  killed. " 

Geraniums,  fuchsias,  salvias  and  other  plants  that  you  may  wish  to 
keep  over  winter  without  any  care  of  them,  may  be  taken  up  with  a  ball 
of  earth  attached  to  them  and  placed  in  one  corner  of  the  cellar,  pro- 


GAMES.  125 

vided  it  is  warm  enough  not  to  freeze  potatoes ;  pack  them  close  and 
banl<  the  earth  firmly  about  the  roots.  In  January  or  February  bring 
the  fuchsias  to  the  window,  and  they  will  form  beautiful  flowering 
plants  in  about  six  weeks'  time. 

To  have  roses  bloom  well  keep  old  wood  cut  back ;  cover  the  bushes 
in  winter  with  straw,  corn  stalks  or  loose  manure,  and  work  into  the  soil 
around  them  plenty  of  iron  filings,  or  break  up  old  pieces  of  cast-iron  as 
fine  as  possible  and  put  around  next  the  roots. 

In  sending  bulbs  by  mail  it  is  best  to  put  them  in  light  wooden  boxes  ; 
but  when  these  cannot  be  obtained,  the  next  best  plan  is  to  tie  them  up 
in  little  cloth  bags,  and  then  either  put  them  in  paper  boxes  or  wrap 
them  in  strong  brown  paper  and  tie  securely. 

Coleus  cannot  be  kept  over  winter  in  a  cellar.  They  are  tropical 
plants,  and  generally  perish  with  the  first  frosts.  They  must  be  win- 
tered in  a  warm  temperature,  with  abundance  of  light,  and  the  temper- 
ature at  all  times  well  saturated  with  moisture. 


GAMES. 


FLY,  FEATHER,  FLY. 

Ten  or  twelve  young  people  sit  in  a  circle,  as  close  as  they  can  get 
without  crowding.  Somebody  takes  a  tuft  of  cotton,  or  a  downy  feather, 
and  lets  it  float  above  the  heads  of  the  group,  giving  it  a  puff  with  her 
breath ;  the  person  towards  whom  it  directs  its  descent  must  likewise 
blow  it  upwards  and  away.  If  it  falls  upon  him  he  must  pay  a  forfeit. 
A  dozen  so  employed  in  chasing  with  their  breath  the  common  enemy 
compose  a  most  amusing  group.  The  feather  often  defies  them, 
bravely  challenging  them  to  do  their  worst,  with  poor  King  Lear's 
world-famous  taunt :  "  Blow,  winds,  and  crack  your  cheeks ;  rage, 
blow !  "  It  often  happens,  as  it  is  hard  to  laugh  and  blow  at  the  same 
time,  the  feather  finds  its  way  into  the  throat  of  the  intending  blower, 
and,  of  course,  the  involuntary  feather-eater  pays  a  double  forfeit  as  a 
penalty  for  his  curious  taste. 

GOSSIP. 

Players  seat  themselves  around  the  room,  and  one  at  the  head  whis- 
pers some  trifle  to  the  next  neighbor — something  like  this :  "John  and 
Ann  are  going  to  elope,"  naming  two  of  the  company.  Number  two 
must  whisper  it  to  number  three,  and  so  on  around  the  room.  It  must 
not  be  whispered  twice  to  the  same  person.  If  the  next  does  not  catch 
all  the  words,  they  must  whisper  what  they  do  understand,  and  make 
up  the  rest.    The  last  one  must  rise  and  repeat  out  loud  what  was 


126  GAMES. 

whispered  to  them,  then  number  one  must  repeat  what  was  first  said  to 
them,  and  you  will  be  amused  to  see  how  little  the  two  reports  are  alike. 

GYPSY  ENCAMPMENT, 

This  will  prove  a  very  amusing  and  merry  game,  if  conducted  well, 
which  will  depend  entirely  upon  the  wit  and  cleverness  of  the  actors. 
The  persons  who  invite  the  party  must  select — some  days  previously — 
one  gentleman  and  two  ladies  to  represent  gypsies,  and  these  must  not 
be  known  to  the  guests  till  after  the  performance.  They  will  have  time 
to  study  their  parts.  If  the  house  has  two  rooms  separated  by  folding 
doors,  the  smaller  can  be  appropriated  for  a  tent,  etc.,  and  as  ever- 
greens will  be  plentiful,  it  may  be  very  tastefully  decorated  to  represent 
a  gypsy's  encampment,  their  tent  being  at  the  entrance  of  a  wood  or 
copse.  It  can  easily  be  erected  against  a  wall,  and  a  covering  thrown 
over  it,  as  the  gypsies  need  not  go  under  it,  but  recline  themselves 
before  it.  They  must  prepare  suitable  dresses,  and  slightly  color  their 
faces  to  appear  tanned.  When  the  evening  arrives,  they  must  be  fully 
prepared.  Possibly  the  guests  may  take  tea  before  the  performance, 
the  hostess  taking  care  not  to  forget  them.  When  the  repast  is  over, 
the  host  may  say  :  "  Well,  friends,  how  shall  we  amuse  ourselves  ?  " 
His  wife  leaves  the  room,  goes  into  the  other  by  a  side  door,  and  throws 
open  the  folded  ones.  The  party  appear  electrified  at  the  novel  sight ; 
the  gypsies  do  not  allow  them  time  for  consideration,  but  jump  up. 
The  male,  taking  possession  of  a  young  lady,  compliments  her  on  her 
beauty,  and  begs  her  to  let  him  tell  her  fortune.  His  companions  select 
young  gentlemen,  and  they  are  told  marvelous  things.  The  host  should 
have  invited  at  least  one  decided  old  bachelor — or  two  is  better.  Then 
the  gypsy  lasses  must  praise  up  matrimony,  telling  them  they  will  be 
caught  at  last ;  and  even  give  a  description  of  their  intended  wives, 
describing  some  of  the  ladies  present,  which  will  cause  a  great  deal 
of  mirth.  After  the  game  is  finished,  the  gypsies  are  invited  to  supper. 
They  do  not  change  their  dress,  but  keep  incog,  during  the  evening,  and 
after  the  guests  have  left,  change  their  dresses,  and  set  off  themselves 
for  home. 

HANDWRITING  ON  THE  WALL. 

Cut  the  word  or  words  to  be  shown  out  of  a  thick  card  or  pasteboard  ; 
place  it  before  a  lighted  lamp,  and  the  writing  will  be  distinctly  seen  on 
the  wall.  This  will  be  a  startling  surprise  to  the  family,  if  you  can  place 
it  without  being  discovered,  or  have  them  sit  with  their  backs  to  the 
light  without  telling  them  what  you  are  going  to  do. 

HUNT  THE  FOX. 

Take  partners  and  stand  as  in  a  contra  dance.  The  lady  at  the  head 
is  the  fox ;  her  partner,  the  hunter.     At  a  signal  she   starts  and  runs 


ITALIAN  BLIND  MANS  BUFF.  127 

down  the  line,  her  partner  following ;  she  can  run  through  the  lines  as 
she  pleases,  the  players  standing  far  enough  apart  to  allow  her  to  pass 
easily.  The  hunter  must  follow  the  exact  course  of  the  fox  ;  if  he  varies, 
he  must  pay  a  forfeit.  When  the  fox  is  caught,  the  first  couple  goes  to 
the  foot  and  the  next  couple  goes  through  with  the  same. 

KALEIDOSCOPE. 

Any  one  who  is  the  possessor  of  a  piano,  can  make  a  beautiful  kal- 
eidoscope. It  can  be  done  during  the  day  or  evening ;  all  that  is  neces- 
sary in  the  day-time  is  to  take  off  the  piano  spread,  open  the  piano  and 
place  three  or  four  books  under  the  cover,  which  is  thrown  back  so  that 
there  is  a  space  of  about  six  inches  between  the  top  of  the  piano  and  the 
open  cover;  put  the  piano  spread  over  the  top,  let  some  one  take  a 
pretty  moss  mat  or  Japanese  tidy  ( in  fact,  any  article  of  bright  colors 
will  answer),  pass  back  and  forth  at  one  end,  while  some  one  else  peeps 
through  at  the  other  end.  The  effect  is  very  pretty.  Be  sure  ard  have 
as  much  light  as  possible  at  the  end  where  the  mats,  etc.,  are  passed  to 
and  fro.  In  the  evening  set  a  lamp  at  the  end  of  the  piano  where  the 
fancy  articles  are  used.  If  you  fail  the  first  time,  experience  will  teach 
you  and  make  each  effort  more  successful. 

CHINESE  MANDARINS. 

The  leader  of  the  game  says  to  the  right-hand  neighbor :  "  My  ship 
has  come  from  China."  The  other  asks  :  "  What  has  it  brought  ?  " 
The  first  one  replies  :  "A  fan ;  "  and  with  her  right  hand  makes  gestures 
as  though  fanning  herself.  All  the  other  players  do  the  same.  The 
second  player  then  says  to  the  third  :  "  My  ship  has  come  from  China  ;" 
and  in  answer  to  the  question  "  What  has  it  brought  ?  "  replies :  "  Two 
fans;  "  fanning  herself  with  both  hands,  her  gestures  being  imitated  by 
all  her  companions.  The  third  player,  on  announcing  the  possession  of 
"three  fans,"  has  to  keep  moving  the  right  foot,  without  ceasing  the 
motion  of  her  two  hands  ;  the  others,  of  course,  doing  the  same.  At 
"four  fans,"  both  feet  and  both  hands  must  be  kept  moving;  at  "  five 
fans,"  both  feet,  both  hands  and  the  right  eyelid;  at  "six  fans,"  both 
hands,  both  feet  and  both  eyes;  at  "  seven  fans,"  both  hands,  both  feet, 
both  eyes  and  the  mouth,  and  at  "eight  fans,"  both  feet,  both  hands, 
both  eyes,  the  mouth  and  the  head.  This  movement,  executed  at  once 
by  the  whole  of  the  players,  will  give  them  a  most  ludicrous  resem- 
blance to  a  party  of  Chinese  mandarins. 

PORCO,  OR  ITALIAN  BLIND  MAN'S  BUFF. 

Several  persons,  male  and  female,  join  hands  so  as  to  form  a  circle, 
and  one  person,  who  is  blind-folded,  is  placed  in  the  center,  with  a 
small  stick  in  his  or  her  hand.      The  players  dance  around  the  hood- 


128  "         GLASS. 

winked  person,  who  tries  to  touch  one  of  them  with  the  wand,  and  if  he 
succeeds,  the  ring  of  people  stops.  The  player  then  grunts  like  a  pig — 
hence  the  name  of  the  game — crows,  or  imitates  some  animal,  and  the 
person  touched  must  endeavor  to  imitate  the  noise  as  closely  as  possi- 
ble, without  discovering  him  or  herself.  If  the  party  touched  is  discov- 
ered, then  the  hoodwinked  player  transfers  the  bandage  and  the  stick  to 
that  player,  and  takes  the  vacant  place  in  the  ring  of  persons,  who  once 
more  resume  their  dance,  until  another  player  is  touched. 

Shadow  Buff :  Place  a  tall  frame  covered  with  white  cloth  a  little 
way  from  the  wall.  Let  one  of  the  company  be  seated  back  of  the 
frame.  Then  place  a  lamp  where  the  light  will  fall  on  the  frame,  and 
the  rest  of  the  players  pass  between  the  light  and  frame  so  their 
shadow  will  be  thrown  directly  in  front  of  the  one  behind  the  frame. 
Let  them  disguise  in  any  way  they  can,  and  the  one  back  of  the  frame 
must  keep  his  seat  until  they  succeed  in  naming  some  one  of  the 
passing  shadows  by  their  true  name.  Then  the  one  named  takes  the 
seat. 


GLASS. 

CARVED  JET  CROSSES. 

A  decided  novelty  in  crosses,  and  one  that  strongly  resembles  carved 
jet,  can  be  made  by  pounding  thick  black  glass  into  fragments,  heating 
them  very  hot  in  the  fire  to  soften  the  sharp  edges,  and  then  attaching 
them  to  the  cross  by  means  of  strong  glue.  A  light  wood  foundation  is 
preferable  to  card-board,  as  it  is  less  likely  to  warp.  Blue,  green,  crim- 
son or  other  colored  glass  may  be  substituted  for  black,  if  the  surface  of 
the  article  first  be  colored  the  same  shade  as  the  glass.  A  very  trans- 
parent glue  must  be  used  to  fasten  the  articles. 

IMITATION  GROUND  GLASS. 

Ground  glass  may  be  successfully  imitated  in  the  followmg  manner  : 
Cut  from  tissue  paper  or  white  muslin,  fancy  figures,  and  then,  with 
transparent  gum  or  paste,  fasten  the  paper  or  muslin  on  the  glass. 
Glass  doors  or  windows  covered  in  this  way  need  no  other  screen  to 
keep  out  questioning  eyes  or  unpleasant  sights. 

The  same  end  may  be  obtained  by  applying  to  the  windows  with  a 
brush,  a  hot,  saturated  solution  of  sal  ammoniac,  or  of  Glauber's  salt,  or 
Epsom  salts.  The  crystallizations,  in  the  first  instance,  will  be  in 
straight  lines,  diverging  from  a  point.  The  Epsom  salts  will  form  four- 
sided  prisms,  and  the  Glauber's  salts  six-sided  prisms.  A  perfect  and 
beautiful  screen  may  thus  be  obtained. 


PAINTING  ON  GROUND  GLASS.  129 

Another  and  simpler  manner  of  ornamenting  window  glass  is  by  crys- 
tallization. Cut  diamonds,  rings,  circles,  stars,  leaves,  flowers,  or  any 
ornamental  design  from  tarletan  and  paste  in  regular  patterns  on  the 
glass.  Next  wash  it  in  a  hot,  saturated  solution  of  Epsom  salts,  and 
when  dry  it  will  be  found  covered  with  fine  crystals.  To  make  a  satu- 
rated solution,  allow  the  water  to  take  up  all  the  salt  it  will  possibly 
dissolve.  Apply  with  a  brush,  and  do  not  allow  the  liquid  to  cool  in  the 
least  a  single  moment.  Sal  ammoniac  produces  the  same  effect,  but 
forms  a  different  crystal.  A  beautiful  effect  may  be  reached  by  using 
three  different  crystals,  dissolving  each  in  a  separate  vessel.  The  one 
will  give  thread-like  crystals,  the  next  four-sided  prisms,  and  the  third 
six-sided  prisms. 

PAINTING  ON  GROUND  GLASS. 

For  this  water  colors  are  easiest  managed,  though  oils  may  be  used. 
The  semi-transparent  colors  are  principally  required,  but  some  of  the 
full  transparent  tints  produce  fine  effects.  The  lakes,  siennas,  Prussian 
blue,  terra  vert,  sepia,  black  and  neutral  tints  of  the  opaque  colors,  care- 
fully handled,  give  fine  results.  From  these  fine  shades,  greens,  purples, 
grays  and  browns  are  produced.  Draw  the  design  upon  the  glass  by 
touching  with  a  pencil,  giving  all  the  outlines  Supposing  your  design 
to  be  a  landscape,  first  paint  the  sky,  commencing  at  the  top  with  a 
deep  grayish  blue,  brighten  and  make  lighter  towards  the  line  of 
the  horizon.  About  the  distant  mountains,  etc.,  give  a  soft,  hazy  look 
by  making  a  grayish  purple  and  white,  and  near  the  distant  forests  a 
whitish  green.  In  the  mid-distance  give  more  coloring,  and  as  the  fore- 
ground is  approached,  use  distinct  colors,  and  give  prominent  objects 
clear  and  perfect  forms.  Paint  each  separate  object  at  once,  and  avoid 
giving  second  coats,  as  this  produces  a  patchy  appearance. 

In  painting  on  glass,  bold  strokes  and  broad,  even  washes  are  required. 
Keep  the  painting  in  a  w^arm  situation  if  in  cold  weather,  and  when  the 
first  coat  is  finished  and  dry,  apply  a  thin  coat  of  mastic  varnish.  For 
the  second  coat  commence  again  at  the  top,  making  the  clouds  and  deep- 
ening the  ground  with  the  tip  of  the  finger  or  a  blender ;  rub  in  the  edges 
upon  the  soft,  fleecy  parts  to  give  the  effect  of  soft  piles  of  cloud  one  upon 
another.  Coming  down  to  the  horizon,  give  a  warmer  glow  and  more 
color,  and  strengthen  the  colors  also  in  the  distance  near  the  mountains, 
forests,  etc.  Make  these  more  distinct,  as  also  all  subjects  in  the  mid- 
distance,  and  upon  the  foreground  give  great  attention  to  minute  details, 
working  up  carefully  every  object.  Use  caution  not  to  put  on  too  deep 
colors,  for  once  laid  they  are  removed  with  difficulty — therefore  use  light 
tints  and  trust  to  adding  repeated  coats.  Follow  each  coat  with  a  thin 
one  of  varnish,  and  the  third  will  enable  you,  generally,  to  finish  up  all 
the  details  and  give  all  those  fine  touches  which  produce  such  charming 
9 


130  GLASS, 

effects.  Still  a  fourth  coat  may  be  found  necessary,  but  must  be  applied 
on  the  varnish.  If  oil  colors  are  used,  proceed  as  if  painting  on  canvas, 
using  the  dabber  freely,  and  for  high  lights  scraping  carefully  with  the 
knife  point,  which  produces  the  most  wonderful  effects.  Give  parts 
toward  the  sunlight  a  warm,  rosy  glow,  and  make  dull  those  in  the 
shadow.  Touch  all  with  the  mastic  varnish.  Where  high  hghts  are 
required  use  a  rag  wet  with  turpentine  to  remove  the  color  and  then 
varnish ;  soften  the  edges  by  nipping  and  using  the  eraser  and  dabber. 
For  this  purpose  landscapes  are  perhaps  the  most  effective,  and.of  these, 
moonlight  scenes  will  be  found  most  charming,  using  dull  shades  of 
green  and  neutral  tints,-  making  those  lovely  cold  shades  of  green  pro-' 
duced  with  terra  vert,  and  touching  the  high  lights  with  the  mastic 
varnish,  etc. 

ENGRAVING,  ETCHING  AND  EMBOSSING  GLASS. 

To  engrave  goblets,  wine  glasses,  etc.,  add  a  little  bitumen  to  nice, 
clear  beeswax,  and  melt  it  thoroughly  in  an  open  vessel.  Cleanse  the 
glass  thoroughly  and  dip  into  the  mixture  until  well  coated.  Then  with 
a  needle  or  sharp  pointed  instrument,  sketch  upon  it  the  design,  name, 
initials,  or  monogram,  taking  care  to  remove  the  wax  from  the  Imes  and 
grooves,  and  to  have  the  tracing  on  the  wax  of  the  exact  thickness  or 
delicacy  desired  on  the  glass.  Then  put  the  glass  in  a  bath  of  hydro- 
fluoric acid,  and  expose  it  to  the  action  of  the  sun's  rays  for  five  hours, 
taking  care  not  to  melt  the  wax.  At  the  end  of  that  time  the  displaced 
glass  will  be  seen  rising  in  the  whitish  powder  to  the  surface.  Examine 
the  work  and  if  it  seems  satisfactory  remove  it,  wash  free  from  acid 
and  wax,  and  it  will  be  found  beautifully  engraved.  Window  glass  is 
very  attractive  engraved  in  regular  patterns  or  with  monograms  and  a 
tiny  border. 

The  most  elegant  and  artistic  of  this  work  is  etching.  The  prettiest 
effects  are  gained  on  the  heaviest  and  best  quality  of  glass,  notably 
French  crystal. 

With  a  soft  camel's-hair  brush  cover  the  glass  evenly  with  wax  and 
bitumen,  equal  parts.  Then  trace  the  design  with  a  pattern  pricked  in 
paper  and  lightly  dusted  with  colored  powder.  Then  with  a  sharp 
pointed  instrument  mark  the  design  by  cutting  uniformly  and  slightly 
through  the  wax,  and  proceed  to  cut  out  the  fine  lines  with  the  instru- 
ment, and  the  heavier  ones  with  a  knife.  If  the  surface  is  flat,  dip  up 
some  wax  and  inclose  the  entire  center  in  a  little  wall,  and  in  this  pour 
a  quantity  of  pure  hydro-fluoric  acid.  Expose  it  to  the  sun  for  two 
hours,  then  stop  out  the  acid  from  the  finest  lines  by  tilling  with  Bruns- 
wick hack.  Let  the  work  rem.ain  another  hour  and  stop  out  those  of 
moderate  depth,  then  another  hour  on  the  third  class  of  marks,  and 
finally  give  the  acid  another  hour  to  act  on  the  deepest  marks,  after 


GRASSES.  131 

which  wash  the  glass  clean  and  the  sun  has  accomplished  your  work 
as  perfectly  as  a  mechanic. 

Embossing  on  glass  is  the  reverse  of  engraving  and  etching,  for  by  it 
the  pattern  is  made  bright  and  clear,  while  the  surface  is  dull  like  ground 
glass.  Paint  the  entire  surface  with  varnish,  and  draw  upon  it  a  design 
of  a  uniform  and  decided  character,  without  much  fine  tracing.  To 
trace  the  pattern,  cut  a  paper  diagram  as  before  described,  and  do  not 
destroy  it,  for  it  will  be  Useful  again.  Make  a  wall  of  wax  around  the 
design  and  fill  with  the  acid,  allowing  it  to  remain  until  the  design  is 
etched  enough  to  leave  the  ground  slightly  raised  Wash  off  the 
acid  and  varnish,  then  commence  grinding  the  groundwork  by  means 
of  a  flat  piece  of  glass  and  pulverized  emery.  Cover  the  designs  with 
the  paper  pattern  to  avoid  its  filling  up,  and  use  bu'  a  smaP  nortion  of 
emery  at  a  time.  The  ground  if  carefully  done,  wil.  have  the  dull, 
white,  opaque  appearance  pecuhar  to  fine  ground  glass,  while  ^he  design 
will  be  bright  and  clear. 

While  wrestling  with  the  engravmg  mania,  try  this  upon  your  ivory 
paper  knives,  jewel  cases,  etc. :  Make  a  composition  of  one  ounce  of 
white  rosin,  half  an  ounce  of  white  wax  and  two  ounces  of  asphalt. 
Cover  the  surface  of  the  ivory  with  this  and  when  evenly  coated  take  a 
sharp  pointed  instrument  and  cut  the  design  which  is  intended  to  orna- 
ment the  surface  through  until  the  ivory  is  reached.  In  the  deeper 
places  use  a  sharp  knife.  Then  cover  the  surface  with  strong  muriatic 
acid,  allowing  it  to  remain  four  hours  when  the  weak  composition  may 
be  carefully  removed  with  a  knife,  the  surface  washed,  and  the  design 
will  be  found  beautifully  engraved. 


GRASSES. 

FOR  VASES  AND  BASKETS. 

Commence  to  gather  grasses  in  July  and  keep  on  all  summer  and  fall, 
as  they  head  and  ripen.  It  is  best  to  gather  them — and  also  ferns  and 
leaves — on  a  dry,  clear  day.  Strip  off  all  leaves  and  cut  the  stems  of 
your  grass  a  convenient  length  ;  then  put  in  vases,  or  anything  that  will 
hold  them,  and  set  away  in  a  closet,  to  keep  free  from  dust  and  preserve 
their  color  until  wanted  for  a  winter  adornment.  All  sorts  of  burrs 
and  balls  from  trees  are  pretty;  also  the  green  and  ripe  wheat,  rye 
and  oats.  The  latter  are  especially  graceful  and  handsome,  and  should, 
with  other  grains,  be  put  immediately  away  and  loosely  in  a  vase  so  the 
heads  will  droop.  They  are  very  ugly  if  standing  up  stiff.  The  South 
furnishes  a  great  variety  of  lovely  grasses,  sea  oats,  etc.,  all  of  which 
will  keep  for  years.     Wild  rice  is  also  very  pretty.     The  pampas  grass 


132  HOLIDA  Y  FESTIVITIES, 

is  magnificeat  with  its  long  feathering  plumes,  and  it  can  be  cultivated 
in  gardens  here  at  the  North.  To  see  its  creamy  plumes  waving  in  the 
wind  is  a  beauty  one  can  never  forget.  A  variety  of  it  grows  in  some 
portions  of  the  West  to  an  immense  height,  and  has  great  gray  heads, 
long  and  beautiful.  They  are  very  handsome  arranged  in  large  bunches 
over  pictures  and  windows.  The  balls  of  the  gum  tree  are  odd,  and 
ornamental  to  mix  in  with  grass  in  vases  and  baskets,  and  also  to  put 
on  rustic  frames  for  small  pictures.  These  grasses  gathered  at  different 
seasons  give  different  tints,  which  add  much  to  the  beauty  of  the 
bouquei. 


HOLIDAY  FESTIVITIES. 

"COMPLIMENTS  OF  THE  SEASON." 

Take  white  or  tinted  bristol  board,  and  cut  the  cards  the  desired  size. 
Arrange  a  bouquet  of  pressed  flowers,  a  tiny  fern,  ver)^  small  autumn 
leaves,  pansies,  geranmms,  bleeding  heart,  a  sprig  of  ivy,  salvia  or  any 
delicate  flower  or  leaf  that  will  press  nicely.  Make  two  small  holes 
near  the  bottom  of  the  card  and  tie  the  bouquet  to  the  card  with  some 
bright  ribbon  in  color  not  to  clash  with  the  flowers.  The  words,  Merry 
Christmas,  Happy  New  Year,  Compliments  of  the  Season,  etc.,  if  written 
nicely,  are  an  improvement.  These  are  less  expensive  and  more  accept- 
able than  those  bought. 

EVERGREEN  DECORATIONS. 

These  have  become  part  and  parcel  of  the  celebration  of  Christmas, 
and  for  this  purpose  are  used  holly,  ground  pine,  trailing  pine,  ivy,  all 
kinds  of  evergreens,  leaves,  mosses  and  ferns,  till  both  church  and 
house  are  made  redolent  with  the  fragrance  of  the  pine  woods. 

For  vines,  wreaths  and  festoons,  branches  of  laurel,  spruce,  arbor 
vit«,  juniper,  yew,  silver  firs  and  box,  wdth  clusters  of  the  bright  holly 
or  bitter-sweet,  which  grows  in  plenty  at  the  North,  the  holly  of  the 
South,  and  long  trailing  ivies  or  ferns  are  all  desirable  evergreens  for 
church  or  home  decorations.  The  Hartford  fern  is  very  pretty  mixed 
with  autumn  leaves,  and  can  be  bought  at  most  decorators. 

Hoop-skirt  springs  make  the  best  foundations  for  wreathes  and 
crowns,  but  strong  rope  or  cord  is  better  adapted  to  the  twining  of 
festoons  or  garlands.  Long  garlands  of  ivy,  either  natural  or  made  in 
wax-work,  will  add  much  to  the  beauty  of  evergreen  wreaths. 

In  making  long  garlands  for  festooning  book-cases,  windows,  etc., 
take  a  strong  cord  and  tie  a  loop  at  each  end,  then  tie  it  over  a  door- 
handle, or  a  nail,  or  a  hook— something  to  hold  it  fii-mly — and  bind 
upon  it  with  fine  twine  bunches  of  ground-pine,  coral-pine,  or  spruce. 


E  VERGKEEN  DECORA  TIONS.  133 

laurel,  etc.,  so  as  to  completely  cover  it ;  but  take  care  to  tie  them  reg- 
ularly so  that  it  will  be  the  same  size  in  all  its  length.  As  each  garland 
is  finished  put  it  in  the  cellar  or  in  some  damp,  cool  place.  If  the  ever- 
greens are  left  out  of  doors  when  first  gathered,  protect  them  from  the 
sun,  so  that  they  will  not  curl  up  before  made  into  wreaths.  If  holly 
and  bitter-sweet  cannot  be  obtained,  the  berries  of  the  wild  rose  and  of 
climbing  roses  will  prove  a  good  substitute  for  them,  and  a  small  bit  of 
wire  can  be  strung  through  each  berry  and  then  fastened  by  it  into  the 
evergreen. 

A  beautiful  vine  of  autumn  leaves  is  made  by  taking  a  bundle  of  fine 
bouquet  wire  and  a  ball  of  strong  cord ;  fasten  the  leaves  one  after 
another  to  the  cord  by  wrapping  the  stems  strongly  with  the  wire, 
taking  care  to  keep  them  in  moderately  regular  order,  with  the  best  side 
out.  Bright  berries,  grasses,  and  acorn  clusters  even,  may  be  wired  in 
along  with  the  leaves  ;  anything  to  make  an  agreeable  variety.  Cords 
of  this  may  be  festooned  over  the  window,  around  a  mirror  or  picture 
frame,  or  over  the  folding  doors.  With  these  leaves  may  be  mixed 
green  ferns,  pods  and  berries  ;  these  may  also  be  used  for  bouquets,  by 
stemming  the  leaves  with  the  fine  wire  and  sticking  them  down  into  a 
base  of  sand,  so  that  they  will  keep  their  places  as  they  are  arranged. 
Home  cannot  be  made  too  bright  for  this  season  of  the  year,  and  every- 
thing that  is  bright  and  pretty  is  called  into  requisition. 

For  crosses  and  stars  flat  pieces  of  lath  make  the  firmest  foundation, 
and  the  evergreens  and  berries  can  be  fastened  to  them  with  black 
linen  thread.  If  holly  berries  are  abundant  it  is  well  to  string  them 
upon  fine  wire  and  wind  them  among  the  decorations,  or  fasten  a  clus- 
ter of  them  here  and  there.  The  leaves  of  the  holly  can  also  be  put 
among  the  greens  and  adds  much  to  the  fine  effect.  White  snowberries 
and  red  ev^erlastings  are  also  used  to  advantage  in  these  decorations. 

The  room  where  the  Christmas  tree  is  to  be  placed  should  be  trimmed 
with  evergreens,  holly  and  mistletoe  boughs,  and  crosses  can  be  cut  of 
pasteboard,  covered  with  green  cloth  or  paper,  and  then  the  tiny  sprigs 
of  evergreen  sewed  thickly  upon  it. 

Letters  made  in  this  way  look  as  if  cut  from  a  snow-drift :  Cut  out 
the  letters  of  the  size  desired,  in  thick  card-beard,  and  paste  over  it 
cotton  wool.  When  the  wool  is  dried  on  to  the  paper,  pull  it  out  so  as 
to  give  it  the  appearance  of  snow.  Mount  them  upon  a  scarlet,  crimson 
or  blue  background,  and  take  scarlet  or  blue  dress  braid  and  arrange 
as  lines  at  the  top  and  bottom  of  the  letters,  or  make  wreaths  of  ever- 
greens for  framing.  Autumn  leaves,  sprays  of  ferns,  trailing  pine, 
princess  pine  and  bitter-sweet  berries  can  be  mixed  with  the  ever- 
greens, and  help  to  relieve  the  somberness. 

Frosted  garlands  and  wreaths  can  be  made  by  covering  the  paste- 
board with  dextrine  and  scattering  over  them  the  tiny  particles  of  glass 


134  HO  LI  DA  V  FES  TI VI  TIES. 

which  can  be  purchased  at  the  glass  manufacturers;  or  green  moss  can 
be  sprinkled  on  them  and  a  light  sprinkling  of  diamond  dust. 

Festoons  of  evergreens  fastened  from  the  center  of  the  ceiling  back 
to  the  corners  and  over  the  arched  doorways  gives  a  room  a  decidedly 
Christmas  look.  The  garlands  should  be  light  and  airy,  and  twined 
around  columns  and  railings  and  along  the  cornices  ;  lighter  garlands  of 
the  same  kind  should  be  made  for  trimming  the  tops  of  the  doors  and 
windows  and  the  gas  fixtures.  Imitation  berries  can  be  made  by 
stringing  three  or  four  soaked  peas  on  fine  wire,  and  dipping  them  in  a 
varnish  of  red  sealing  wax  dissolved  in  spirits  of  wine.  Everlastings, 
paper  flowers  and  colored  paper  ornaments,  always  seem  tawdry  and 
unsightly  when  mixed  with  nature's  gifts. 

CHRISTMAS  TREE  ORNAMENTATION. 

The  custom  of  having  illuminated  trees  at  Christmas,  their  branches 
laden  with  pretty  little  trifles  as  mementoes  to  be  presented  to  the 
guests  of  the  party,  and  to  be  cherished  by  them  as  a  remembrance 
until  another  year  comes  around,  is  derived  from  Germany.  A  young 
fir  is  generally  selected  for  the  tree,  and  this  is  firmly  fastened  in  a  box  or 
tub  filled  with  sand  or  heavy  weights,  and  then  concealed  with  mosses 
and  evergreens.  Nothing  is  more  disastrous  than  to  have  the  tree 
sway  from  side  to  side  or  tip  over,  and  great  care  must  be  shown  in 
fastening  it  securely.  Now  that  the  tree  is  selected  of  closely  growing 
branches,  the  tapers  must  be  fastened  on ;  as  there  is  a  little  mirror 
fastened  behind  each  candle  (the  new  ones),  they  give  great  brilliancy 
to  the  general  effect.  Upon  the  topmost  branch  tie  the  "  dove  of 
peace,"  with  its  wings  outspread,  or  an  angel  with  glittering  wings,  or 
a  "Christ  child,"  with  arms  ready  to  bless  and  enfold  us  all.  Glass 
balls,  trumpets,  popcorn  baskets  and  garlands,  tiny  Chinese  lanterns, 
small  dolls,  candy  eggs,  horns  of  plenty,  balls  covered  with  gilt  paper 
and  tin  foil,  tiny  mirrors — if  you  have  none  take  a  broken  piece  to  the 
glazier  and  have  him  cut  it  into  oblong  pieces,  paste  colored  paper  on 
the  backs,  bind  the  edges  and  hang  up  behind  each  candle,  with  a  loop 
of  ribbon.  Small  bags  of  net  made  in  the  shape  of  anchors,  hearts, 
boots  and  crosses,  horseshoes,  stockings  and  mittens,  are  pretty  for 
candies.  Rosy-cheeked  apples  and  oranges  can  be  suspended  by  pass- 
ing a  fine  wire  around  them,  and  their  bright  color  enlivening  the  green 
is  exceedingly  effective.  Gilded  stars,  scarlet  and  blue  stars,  can  be 
cut  from  paper  and  interspersed  with  small  flags,  shields  and  other 
devices.  Crotchet  purses,  bon-bons,  preserved  fruit,  and  alum  baskets, 
help  to  make  a  beautiful  and  dazzling  effect  when  the  tree  is  lit  up. 

There  is  nothing  that  so  brightens  a  Christmas  tree  as  gilt  paper 
chains.  Cut  gilt  paper  in  strips  about  four  inches  long  and  half  an  inch 
wide,  glue  the  ends  together,  slip  the  next  strip  in  the  ring  thus  formed 


CHRISTMAS  TREE  ORNAMENTATION.  135 

and  glue  the  end  together,  and  so  on  until  your  chain  is  four  or  five 
feet  long.  Cut  an  anchor,  star  and  other  designs  of  thin  card-board, 
cover  on  both  sides  with  gilt  paper  and  suspend  from  the  chain,  then 
loop  from  branch  to  branch  of  the  tree. 

Birds'-nests  are  also  pretty  ornaments.  Take  the  halves  of  unboiled 
egg  shells,  dip  them  in  white  of  ^%g,  make  a  hollow  of  moss  in  your 
hand  and  put  the  shell  in  it ;  be  sure  the  moss  is  thick  enough  to  cover 
the  shell ;  line  it  on  the  inside  with  feathers  and  when  dry,  put  some 
candy  eggs  in  them. 

.  To  gild  walnuts  to  hang  in  the  tree,  hanjmer  a  rather  long  tack  or 
nail  into  the  end  of  the  walnut  to  hold  it  by  and  afterwards  to  suspend 
it.  Wash  the  nut  all  over  with  white  of  ^^g  laid  on  with  a  feather. 
Then  roll  it  in  leaf  gold  till  it  is  well  covered ;  mind  and  do  not  breathe 
over  the  gold  leaf  or  it  will  fly  away.  When  the  nut  is  dry  suspend 
it  by  a  narrow  piece  of  ribbon. 

The  covers  of  old  writing-books  can  be  folded  so  as  to  form  a  cornu- 
copia or  horn,  and  closely  pasted  together,  then  covered  with  some 
bright  silk  or  chintz  and  finished  with  a  box-plaiting  at  the  top,  and 
strings  of  crotcheted  cord. 

The  large  fir  cones  may  be  transformed  into  novel  match-stands  for 
hanging  on  the  trees.  The  pedestal  should  be  formed  of  rustic  twigs, 
and  then  bound  together  in  the  middle  by  fine  wire,  so  as  to  form  a 
double  tripod.  The  cone  must  be  glued  in  the  upper,  and  then  both 
that  and  the  pedestal  neatly  touched  by  Chinese  white  and  vermillion. 
It  should  be  varnished  and,  when  dry,  and  the  cone  filled  with  wax 
matches,  has  a  resemblance  to  a  porcupine 

Pop-corn  strung  on  cord  and  made  into  festoons  on  the  tree  is  also 
pretty;  crystallized  moss  hanging  from  the  branches,  acorns,  sweet  gum 
balls  and  cotton  balls  are  all  very  effective  among  the  green. 

The  fashion  is  a  good  one,  of  putting  all  the  bulky  and  heavy  presents 
in  baskets  at  the  base  of  the  tree,  instead  of  loading  down  the  tree  with 
their  weight  and  making  the  branches  unsightly. 

For  a  Sabbath  school  festival  a  Christmas  house  is  pretty  in  place  of 
the  old  time  Christmas  tree.  The  house  should  be  made^of  evergreens 
and  white  wadding  or  cotton  batting,  and  the  chimney  of  straw  board 
painted  to  imitate  brick.  Two  pages  dressed  in  fancy  costume  (or  not, 
as  you  choose),  knock  at  the  door,  when  a  veritable  Santa  Claus  with 
long  silvery  hair  and  beard,  robed  in  fur,  appears  with  his  huge  basket 
of  gifts. 

One  of  the  oddest  and  most  unique  ways  of  presenting  Christmas 
gifts  to  older  people,  when  there  is  no  tree,  is  to  take  the  package  and 
roll  it  up  in  a  paper  and  mark  it  with  the  recipient's  name ;  do  this  up 
in  another  wrapping  and  write  the  name  of  one  of  the  party  on  it ;  pro- 
ceed in  this  way  until  you  have  rolled  it  up  in  several  wrappings.     Then 


136  HOLIDA  Y  FESTI VI TIES. 

the  distributor  will  read  off  the  first  name ;  the  package  will  be  handed 
him  or  her,  to  be  passed  on  to  the  next  name  on  the  wrapper,  and  as 
each  one  hopes  that  is  the  last  name  and  he  is  the  happy  possessor, 
the  exclamations  of  disappointment  or  delight  are  very  amusing  and 
exceedingly  mistifying. 

CHRISTMAS  AND  EASTER  MOTTOES. 

For  mottoes  take  a  quantity  of  pressed  ferns,  pansies,  or  tiny  leaves,, 
and  a  piece  of  bristol  board  ;  in  the  center  of  the  board  outline  a  cross,  of 
any  style  you  please ;  then  above  the  cross  draw  in  old  English  capitals 
the  words,  •'  To  Thy,"  and  below  the  cross  the  words,  "  I  Cling." 
Have  the  letters  rather  large ;  cut  the  ferns  in  small  pieces,  brush  each 
piece  with  mucilage  and  fill  out  the  letters.  Fill  the  cross  the  same 
way,  adding  here  and  there  the  pansies  or  tiny  leaves.  Press  a  few 
days  before  framing,  or  make  a  frame  of  crystallized  moss  or  leaves.  A 
motto  made  of  bleached  ferns,  on  a  background  of  black  velvet,  is'very 
beautiful.  You  can  take  any  motto  you  choose  and  make  it  in  the 
same  way  as  described  above. 

Another  way  is  to  cut  a  piece  of  very  stiff  cardboard  the  desired 
shape  and  size  of  the  motto.  Give  the  upper  surface  a  thick  coat  of 
mucilage,  and  over  this  press  the  thickest  and  best  pure  white  cotton 
wadding.  When  this  is  firmly  attached  and  the  gum  quite  dry,  gently 
pull  off  the  smooth  upper  surface  of  the  wadding,  very  gently  pull  up 
here  and  there  that  which  is  attached  to  the  cardboard,  and  sprinkle 
with  diamond  dust,  such  as  is  used  for  wax  flowers.  Now  have  ready 
your  letters  or  other  designs  for  the  motto,  cut  in  thin  cardboard ;  fasten 
them  on  the  cotton  foundation  and  frame,  with  cedar  sprays  or  the  slen- 
der branches  of  the  pine  tree,  from  which  the  needle  branches  have 
been  removed,  or  make  the  border  and  lettering  of  evergreens  mixed 
with  scarlet  everlastings  or  berries. 

The  Spanish  moss  is  crystallized  with  alum,  making  one  of  the  pret- 
tiest decorations  one  can  imagine ;  or  take  any  of  the  fine  mosses,  go 
over  them  with  a  brush  dipped  in  thin  mucilage,  and  whilst  damp  sift 
over  them  diamond  dust,  or  the  fine  glass  that  may  be  had  at  any  glass 
factory.  Letters,  crosses  or  mottoes,  maybe  made  of  this  gray,  crystal- 
ized  moss.  Or  this  :  Select  stiff  gray  moss  of  coarse,  open  texture, 
dampen  and  sew  on  a  pasteboard  foundation.  Next  prepare  a  solution 
of  alum,  one  pound  to  a  quart  of  hard  water,  heat  gradually  in  a  brass 
kettle  until  boiling  hot,  then  allow  to  cool,  when  it  is  ready  for  use.  A 
little  extra  care  must  be  taken  with  the  crystallizing.  The  moss  must 
be  perfectly  dry;  hold  the  article  over  the  kettle,  and  with  a  cup  or 
large  spoon  repeatedly  pour  the  water  over  the  moss,  moistening  the 
pasteboard  as  little  as  possible.  This  process  produces  more  frostlike 
crystals  than  the  ordinary  one  of  immersion. 


CHRISTMAS  AND  EASTER  MOTTOES.  137 

Another  beautiful  motto  is  made  by  covering  a  heavy  cardboard 
foundation  with  pale  blue  frosted  plush  or  velvet,  the  lettering,  etc., 
made  of  white  cotton  wadding  frosted  with  diamond  dust,  and  the 
frame  made  of  white  glass. 

Pretty  ones  are  made  by  covering  the  cardboard  with  flock ;  this 
material  can  be  bought  in  all  shades  of  red  by  the  pound,  and  is  made 
by  sizing  a  piece  of  thin  board  or  stiff  cardboard  with  glue,  and  then 
sprinkling  the  flock  over  it — or  fine  powdered  moss.  The  flock  has  a 
very  pretty  effect  if  used  for  letters  on  a  white  or  gold  background, 
though  the  red  or  wine-colored  velvet  paper  looks  the  same,  is  cheaper 
and  less  troublesome.  Gold  paper  can  also  be  bought  for  letters,  and 
is  pretty  on  the  wine-colored  or  black  background.  When  the  ground 
work  is  of  moss,  the  lettering  or  designs  should  be  of  Hghter  green 
moss,  tiny  autumn  leaves  and  such  pressed  flowers  as  retain  their 
colors. 

Crowns,  lyres,  crosses,  anchors  and  harps  can  be  cut  of  pasteboard, 
and  then  covered  with  tiny  sprays  of  cedar,  ferns  or  autumn  leaves. 
The  leaves  and  cedar  sprays  can  be  sewed  on,  but  the  ferns  must  be 
pasted  or  glued,  as  they  are  so  frail  and  dry  they  are  easily  broken. 
Berries  or  red  everlastings  are  prettiest  mixed  with  the  evergreens,  and 
the  ferns  with  the  autumn  leaves.  Lichens  from  the  woods  can  be 
glued  or  sewed  on  the  pasteboard.  The  fine  green  mosses  bought  at 
the  decorators  or  florists  are  also  used  for  this  purpose.  Autumn 
leaves  should  overlap  each  other,  and  if  dipped  in  hot  wax  just  before 
using,  it  will  keep  them  perfect  and  bright.  Diamond  dust  sprinkled 
on  the  leaves  immediately  after  dipping  them  in  the  wax  makes  them 
very  beautiful,  especially  in  the  evening. 

The  words  "  Hope,"  "Welcome,"  "  Merry  Christmas  "  or  "  A  Happy 
New  Year,"  made  of  these  tiny  leaves,  put  up  over  the  door  in  a  semi- 
circular form  with  a  monogram  below,  are  extremely  beautiful.  These 
mottoes  arranged  in  scrolls,  triangles,  banners,  shields,  crosses  and 
crowns,  are  highly  ornamental  if  well  selected  designs  are  employed. 
"  Peace  on  Earth,  Good  Will  to  Men,"  "  Merry  Christmas  to  All,"  "  Be 
Merry  and  Wise,"  "  Glory  to  God  in  the  Highest,"  and  the  initials  "  I. 
H.  S."  (Jesus  Hominum  Salvator),  or  "  I.  H.  C."  (Jesus  Humanitatis 
Consolator),  are  equally  appropriate,  and  can  be  cut  out  of  cardboard, 
in  letters  from  four  to  five  inches  in  length,  and  covered  with  ivy  or  box 
leaves,  or  with  tiny  sprays  of  hemlock.  They  can  also  be  made  of  gilt 
or  scarlet  paper,  pasted  upon  the  cardboard ;  and  can  then  be  attached 
to  a  scarlet,  blue  or  white  background,  by  making  a  slight  frame  of  laths 
and  covering  it  over  tightly  with  Turkey-red  cotton  or  blue  or  white 
cambric.  The  outer  frame  can  be  made  as  described  above.  The 
handsomest  letters  are  of  rustic  text,  and  are  covered  with  ivy,  laurel, 
or  holly  leaves,  and  a  few  bright  berries  mingled  in.     The  beauty  of  all 


138  HOLIDA  V  FESTIVITIES, 

the  decorations  mentioned  so  far  can  be  greatly  enhanced  by  frosting. 
For  variety,  crust  some  of  the  frosting  with  mica,  to  imitate  hoar  frost. 

CHURCH  DECORATIONS  FOR  EASTER, 

Let  all  the  parish  unite  in  bringing  every  plant  they  have,  even  if  they 
have  no  blossoms.  Foliage  alone  is  beautiful.  Place  a  small  common 
table  in  the  chancel  very  near  the  front ;  place  a  tall  box  on  the  table,  on 
the  box  place  your  handsomest  plants ;  if  you  have  a  handsome  fuchsia 
in  blossom  it  will  be  just  the  thing — each  side  of  this  put  foliage 
plants. 

Make  them  the  same  height,  but  not  quite  so  tall  as  your  central  plant. 
Use  blocks,  bricks,  or  anything  to  make  the  plants  the  right  height. 
Place  each  plant  so  as  to  hide  the  pot  behind  it,  each  row  of  plants 
growing  lower  and  a  little  broader;  place  on  the  floor  of  the  chancel, 
the  steps,  then  on  the  floor.  Do  not  let  it  grow  too  broad — keep  the 
proportions  true.  The  poorest  plants  can  go  in  behind  to  fill  up  any 
spaces  there  may  be.  If  you  are  successful  you  will  have  a  solid,  beau- 
tiful pyramid  of  living  plants,  without  destroying  your  plants  by  cut- 
ting.    Calla  lilies  are  very  effective — in  fact,  nothing  will  come  amiss. 

Little  toy  baskets  are  very  beautiful  hung  about  filled  with  flowers. 
Fill  the  basket  with  wet  cotton  or  moss  ;  if  flowers  are  scarce,  take  any 
tiny  flower,  even  one  of  a  cluster  of  geraniums,  bind  it  to  a  small  wire 
or  broom-corn  with  a  piece  of  wet  cotton  and  lay  in  the  basket.  With 
a  leaf  here  and  there,  a  very  few  flowers  will  go  a  great  ways. 

Golden  rod  is  very  beautiful  for  church  decorations.  To  make  a  star, 
take  five  pieces  of  wood  twenty  inches  long  and  about  half  an  inch 
thick ;  make  a  hole  half  an  inch  from  the  ends,  through  which  to 
draw  a  cord  to  tie  them  together  with,  wind  the  flowers  on,  lay  the 
pieces  across  each  other  in  the  shape  of  a  five-pointed  star,  tie  them 
together,  hang  in  an  arch  or  against  the  wall. 

Little  banners,  three  or  four  inches  long,  of  colored  paper,  with  vari- 
ous church  emblems  upon  them,  and  pasted  on  splints  put  around  the 
lamps  and  various  places,  are  pretty,  only  don't  put  them  in  your  pyra- 
mid ;  that  will  need  no  other  decoration.  Vines  are  beautiful  twined 
around  the  arch  or  on  the  walls.  Hanging-baskets  everywhere  you  can 
put  them,  add  to  the  beauty. 

When  you  have  no  flowers,  banners  of  various  sizes  are  beautiful,  the 
larger  ones  bearing  inscriptions  appropriate  to  the  season.  Make  the 
church  beautiful,  and  remember,    "The  Lord  is  in  His  Holy  Temple." 

EASTER  ALTAR  CROSSES. 

Make  a  cross  of  wood,  say  two  feet  high ;  have  three  steps.  Cover 
with  white  newspaper  before  printed ;  fold  over  the  edges  neatly  and 
paste  on  the  back ;  put  no  paste  on  the  front  or  sides.     It  will  look  like 


EASTER  ALTAR  CROSSES.  139 

white  marble.  A  fine  green  vine  of  running  ferns  will  look  beautifully 
on  it,  but  make  it  very  simple  and  do  not  trim  with  artificials. 

If  you  have  a  chancel  window  which  throws  too  much  light  on  your 
work,  make  a  reredos  of  pasteboard  a  foot  higher  than  your  cross  and 
a  little  wider,  cover  with  bishop  lawn ;  spatter  maiden  hair  and  coarse 
ferns  in  a  wreath  around  the  edge,  and  place  behind  the  cross. 

To  make  imitation  of  rough  marble  take  white  paper  cut  in  long 
strips  two  and  a  half  inches  deep,  slash  about  quarter  of  an  inch  wide  and 
two  inches  deep  the  whole  length.  >Vith  the  point  of  a  penknife  curl 
each  narrow  strip  in  a  round  curl  and  keep  rolled  up ;  paste  a  strip 
around  the  cross,  straight-edge  down,  continue  till  the  cross  is  covered. 
Take  pieces  of  white  marble  broken  small  and  fasten  on  the  cross 
with  plaster  of  paris. 

A  cross  covered  with  wood  moss  and  bitter-sweet  berries  is  very  hand- 
some. Or  cover  a  cross  with  white  glue,  then  put  on  rice  that  has 
been  washed  and  dried.     A  cross  to  be  beautiful  should  be  simple. 

One  of  the  prettiest  crosses  that  can  possibly  be  made  for  the  church 
is  of  pampas  grass  ;  the  stems  are  only  nailed  on  the  arms,  central  piece 
and  at  the  base.  This  does  not  mar  their  beauty,  and  they  could  afterward 
be  sold  at  a  fair  or  festival. 

The  common  mosses  that  grow  on  trees  and  old  fence  rails  are  wtry 
pretty  for  crosses,  and  as  they  are  thin  can  easily  be  glued  on.  Ever- 
greens or  trailing  pine  can  be  wound  round  and  round  a  cross  until  it 
is  a  mass  of  living  green ;  fir  cones,  oak-galls,  small  twigs,  cones  and 
acorns  may  also  be  fastened  on  with  fine  tacks. 

If  a  cross,  harp,  anchor  or  any  article  you  wish  crystallized  is  made  of 
wood,  and  taken  where  they  make  salt  and  left  for  a  short  time,  it  will 
be  covered  with  a  beautiful  flaky  frosting,  made  by  the  salt  evaporating, 
which  covers  everything  in  the  room  with  a  beautiful  white  frost. 
Crosses  are  also  made  of  white,  downy  batting,  and  the  effect  is  very 
pretty  a  little  way  of. 

They  can  be  made  to  look  like  gray  stone  by  sanding  them  the  same 
as  fences  are  sanded  to  imitate  stone.  A  cross  can  be  made  any  size 
for  a  chancel  and  trimmed  with  vines  of  evergreens  interspersed  with 
red  berries.  At  the  base  sprinkle  gray  mosses  and  lichens,  or  green 
mosses,  but  the  former  is  much  the  prettier  with  the  gray  stone.  A 
vine  of  autumn  leaves  is  made  by  means  of  fine  wire,  and  twined 
around  the  arms  of  the  cross  from  the  base  upward.  Sprinkled  with 
marble  dust  they  are  so  white  and  pure  they  make  a  beautiful  church 
decoration  for  Easter. 


140  HOUSE  FURNISHING. 


HOUSE  FURNISHINQ. 

THE  FOUNDATION  OF  HOME. 

The  love  of  beauty  is  instinctive  in  most  natures,  and  in  no  place  can 
it  be  so  much  exercised  by  women  as  in  their  own  homes.  Here  a 
woman  may  be  an  artist,  and  plan  and  harmonize  her  colors  as  perfectly 
as  the  artist  who  paints  the  prize  picture  for  an  art  academy.  Woman 
should  develop  her  artistic  nature,  and  give  herself  full  scope  in  home 
adornment.  Beauty  is  one  of  the  cheapest  things  on  earth,  if  people 
would  only  think  so.  A  tastily  arranged  bouquet  of  ferns  and  grasses 
is  in  itself  a  picture  that  nature  gives  to  any  one  who  will  make  the 
attempt  of  gathering  them.  Many  people  who  live  where  these  can 
easily  be  obtained  by  a  few  moments'  walk,  seldom  think  of  the  beau- 
ties near  at  hand,  but  will  spend  hours  in  making  an  imitation  flower  of 
wax  or  feathers.  Thus,  in  their  attempts  to  make  home  beautiful,  they 
violate  the  principles  of  good  taste  and  artistic  beauty. 

Instead  of  leaving  their  windows  free  to  let  in  the  sunlight  and  pure 
air,  they  fill  them  so  full  of  plants  and  worsted  "  works  of  art  "  that 
one  can  hardly  get  a  glimpse  of  outside  surroundings.  Instead  of 
placing  a  group  of  statuary  back  where  there  is  a  mellow  light,  or 
where  the  shadows  can  play  on  it,  hiding  and  softening  its  outlines, 
they  put  it  on  a  stand  in  front  of  the  window  with  the  figures  toward 
the  street,  so  that  all  the  passers-by  may  see  that  they  possess  a  group 
of  statuary,  and  the  occupants  at  home,  the  ones  who  should  enjoy  its 
beauty,  are  at  liberty  to  study  posture  from  a  back  view,  instead  of  the 
front,  where  can  be  noted  expression  of  the  faces.  The  same  people 
will  hang  in  their  windows  pictures  (not  transparencies),  canoes,  phan- 
tom baskets,  scroll  work,  and  many  other  so-called  ornamental  objects — 
all  beautiful  in  their  places,  but  that  in  the  room,  not  window.  The 
window  transparencies  are  very  beautiful,  and  the  window  is  the  place 
for  them,  as,  also,  are  a  few  plants  in  hanging  baskets  and  birds  in 
cages. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  have  expensive  furniture,  costly  pictures,  fine 
lace  curtains,  or  rare  china  to  produce  pleasant  effects  ;  but  have  the 
colors  harmonize,  and  have  nothing  too  good  to  use.  Violent  contrasts 
produce  a  shock  to  the  artistic  eye,  but  if  well  chosen  are  better  than 
complete  harmony.  "  Nothing  is  so  cheap  as  beauty,"  is  a  familiar 
saying,  to  which  we  may  add,  "  Nothing  is  so  dear  as  sham."  In  the 
appointments  of  a  house,  there  is  at  present  a  mania  for  adornment. 
Bright,  tasteful  colors,  and  rich  looking  furniture  are  not  exponents  of 
adornment,  but  taste,  and  however  much  fashion  may  change,  these 
things  always  maintain  their  pre-eminence.     But  cheap,  tawdry  orna- 


THE  FO  UNDA  TION  OF  HOME.  141 

merits,  imitation  laces,  shoddy  carpets  and  poorly  made  but  perhaps 
fashionable  furniture,  will  soon  have  their  day,  and  proclaim  themselves 
as  they  did  from  the  beginning,  "  shoddy." 

Get  a  good  substantial  carpet,  or  go  with  a  painted  or  stained  floor 
until  able  to  have  one.  Plain  shades  are  prettier  and  more  tasteful 
than  cheap  lace,  and  different  colors  give  different  effects  to  a  room ;  a 
gray  shade  has  the  effect  of  moonlight ;  buff  gives  a  warm  golden  tint 
as  that  of  sunset ;  and  the  warm  aesthetic  red,  now  so  fashionable,  will 
make  the  dullest  room  look  cheerful.  Get  but  little  furniture  and  that 
of  strong  substantial  native  wood ;  the  cheap  veneered  and  gilded 
woods  soon  show  wear  and  are  a  poor  investment.  Buy  strong,  simple 
furniture  of  graceful  make,  that  the  little  fingers  cannot  mar,  nor  that 
will  break  the  first  time  a  person  sits  on  it. 

There  are  but  few  rules  to  be  applied  to  house  furnishing,  but  these 
few  are  the  basis  and  key  note  to  a  beautiful  home.  Let  color  be  the 
silent  music;  form  and  proportion  the  foundation.  Avoid  all  stiffness 
of  design  in  furniture.  Do  not  attempt  to  match  articles,  only  carry 
out  the  same  idea  as  to  color  and  form  in  the  whole.  Do  not  buy 
things  in  sets,  have  no  two  of  a  kind,  as  pairs  of  vases  or  ottomans. 
Avoid  all  chaos  of  colors,  nicknacks,  fantastic  devices  or  cheap 
attempts  at  decoration.  Whatever  you  have  let  it  harmonize.  Arrange 
every  room  in  the  house  for  occupancy,  and  have  nothing  too  good  for 
use.  Follow  no  extreme  of  style,  and,  when  anything  is  bought  or 
made  for  the  house,  have  an  eye  to  its  future  worth  and  stability. 
Invest  in  ornaments  that  have  a  value  not  only  to  yourself  but  to  your 
children  and  children's  children. 

A  point  to  be  well  considered,  also,  is  the  size  of  the  room  and  the 
place  the  piece  of  furniture  or  ornament  will  occupy.  The  order  of 
arrangement  in  furnishing,  says  an  authority,  must  be  this :  "  The  liv- 
ing beings  in  a  room  should  always  be  the  most  attractive ;  next  come 
the  furniture  and  the  draperies ;  then  come  the  walls  and  floors,  both 
of  which  are  to  serve  as  backgrounds  to  all  that  stand  in  front  of  them. 
In  decorating  walls  this  must  always  be  taken  into  consideration,  also 
the  room  of  which  the  walls  form  a  part.  If  we  are  to  decorate  a 
dining-room,  let  the  decorations  give  a  sense  of  richness ;  a  drawing- 
room  or  parlor,  let  it  give  cheerfulness ;  a  library,  let  it  give  worth ;  a 
bedroom,  repose." 

All  rooms  ought  to  look  as  if  they  were  lived  in,  and  be  ready  to  give 
a  friendly  welcome  to  all  newcomers.  If  everything  looks  stiff  and 
non-get-at-able  then  the  visitor  is  repelled  instead  of  welcomed.  A 
dining-room  ought  to  be  cheery  and  bright  so  that  one  may  enjoy  the 
sense  of  sight  as  well  as  taste.  The  sitting-room  should  look  as  if  the 
family  meetings  of  the  day  could  be  held  here  without  fuss  or  ceremony  ; 
and  the  parlor  as  more  than  a  reception  hall,  while  the  library  should 


142  HOUSE  FURNISHING. 

have  its  books  within  easy  access  and  a  comfortable  table  for  writ- 
ing. 

A  few  willow  chairs  of  different  pattern,  with  ribbon  interlaced 
through  them  ;  one  or  two  easy  chairs,  luxuriously  fitted  with  springs 
and  soft  cushions,  and  easy  and  comfortable  rockers,  where  one  may 
really  take  comfort,  are  much  preferable  to  the  more  fashionable  but 
uncomfortable  chair  of  the  extreme  fashion.  Those  whose  rooms  are 
already  furnished  in  neutral  tints,  and  to  which  it  is  desirable  to  add 
bright  bits  of  color,  can  make  them  seem  brilliant  if  they  will  add  rich 
dark  red  to  table  covers,  the  borders  of  curtains  and  mantel  draperies 
or  valances.  Peacock  blue  with  glints  of  gold  will  light  up  a  gray  or 
fawn  colored  room.  Scarlet  and  gold  the  library,  and  oak  and  green,  or 
autumn  tints,  the  dining  room. 

ARTISTIC  WALL  PAPERS. 

The  first  thing  to  be  considered,  on  taking  possession  of  a  home,  is 
the  paper-hanging.  All  walls,  however  decorated,  should  serve  as  a 
background  to  whatever  stands  in  front  of  them.  The  general  effect  of 
the  paper  should  be  rich,  low-toned  and  neutral,  and  yet  have  a  glowing 
color  running  through  it.  The  effect  of  a  wall  paper  is  materially  influ- 
enced by  many  circumstances,  and  should  be  selected  first,  as  the  size, 
architecture  and  general  style  of  the  room  demands.  For  simple  rooms 
ihe  stone  grays  are  the  prettiest  and  show  pictures  to  the  best  advant- 
age when  used  as  a  background.  The  fashionable  wall  paper  of  to-day 
is  in  dark  colors,  with  small  scroll  patterns,  tiny  vines,  leaves  and 
blocks,  but  fashion  is  not  arbitrary,  particularly  in  house  adornments, 
so  one  had  best  to  choose  the  lightest  gray  possible  with  a  deep  border 
of  scarlet  and  gold,  or  gray  and  gold,  and  even  the  black  and  gold  panel 
borders  are  very  handsome,  particularly  if  one  has  any  of  the  black  and 
gold  wood  furniture  now  so  much  in  vogue.  For  a  low  ceiling  use  a 
narrow  striped  paper  with  narrow  border.  Never  have  any  bright 
color  in  the  ground  work  of  the  wall  paper,  but  have  the  neutral  tint  as 
a  foundation  only  for  bright  colors.  A  vine  is  much  better  for  bed- 
chambers than  a  blocked  or  scroll  pattern,  though  the  latter  are  quite 
pretty  for  the  dining-room  and  should  always  be  used  in  the  hall. 
Dark  papers  are  better  for  the  hall,  and  some  of  the  delicate  wood 
shades  are  pretty  for  the  dining-room. 

The  ceiling  of  any  room  may  become  an  object  of  great  beauty  by 
frescoing  it  in  delicate  tints  and  good  design.  The  dark,  rich  colors 
are  still  used  in  wall  paper,  and  if  a  dado  can  be  used  with  gilt  molding 
top  and  bottom,  it  has  an  elegant  effect.  The  dado  should  be  about 
one-third  the  height  of  the  wall,  heavier  than  the  paper,  and,  as  a  rule, 
arabesque,  as  carved  in  design,  and  woody  in  coloring.  But  if  the  ceil- 
ing is  disproportionately  low,  a  dado  should  never  be  used,  but  the 


ARTISTIC  WALL  PAPERS.  143 

figures  on  the  paper  should  incline  to  perpendicular  lines,  preferably- 
light  in  effect,  and  nicely  contrasted  to  that  of  the  ceiling.  Columns 
on  wall  paper  give  height  and  dignity  to  a  large  room ;  used  with  a 
dado  the  general  effect  is  Gothic  and  massive,  requiring  an  elaborate 
ceiling  and  heavy  furniture,  which,  however,  should  be  carefully  placed 
and  sparsely  used. 

Do  not  choose  eccentric  or  grotesque  paper  designs,  for  one  quickly 
tires  of  them,  and  one  that  charms  the  eye  at  first  sight  may  weary  the 
eye  after  a  few  weeks  of  contemplation.  Too  many  colors  in  the  ceiling 
or  walls  of  a  room  also  tire  the  eye,  in  place  of  resting  it.  If  possible, 
select  but  three  colors  in  a  wall  paper  for  any  room,  and  have  the  bor- 
der or  dado  to  correspond  with  these  tints,  however  different  the  pat- 
tern may  be.  Wine-colored  papers  or  tinted  walls  show  pictures  to 
good  advantage,  making  a  rich,  warm  background  that  is  effective  in 
bringing  out  their  good  points.  But  this  is  a  trying  color  for  a  common 
room,  as  one  is  not  able  to  use  the  pretty  scarlets  that  give  so  much  life 
and  color  to  the  home  room. 

Among  the  prettiest  designs  is  an  olive  green  tint,  with  daisies  and 
wheat-heads ;  a  dark  olive  with  reddish  vines  and  sprays  ;  light,  golden 
shades,  with  designs  of  small  berries  and  fruits,  with  flowers  and 
foliage  ;  also  festoons  of  fruit  and  flowers,  on  light  shaded  ground.  All 
these  are  pretty  and  not  so  pronounced  that  they  are  likely  to  soon  go 
out  of  style.  For  more  expensive  rooms  are  the  damask  papers,  looking 
like  velvet ;  antique  tapestry  is  also  imitated  in  wall  paper,  and  another 
has  bronze  and  copper  effects  on  an  olive  ground;  with  the  first  isused 
a  freize  that  has  lines  of  china  blue,  and  with  the  latter,  Indian  red. 

For  library  and  dining  room,  deep  tones  of  olive,  sage,  Indian  red 
and  Antwerp  blue,  with  lines  and  touches  of  dull  gold,  are  introduced. 
For  the  bedroom  and  sitting  room  are  cream,  amber,  fawn,  blue,  rose 
and  pale  olive,  with  traceries  of  contrasting  hues.  For  the  parlor  are 
heavier  papers,  with  traceries  of  dull  gold,  and  with  dado  and  freize 
picked  out  in  Pompeiian  red  and  China  blue.  Whatever  the  color  to  be 
carried  out  in  the  parlors  it  should  be  reproduced  in  the  wall  paper  and 
ceiling — providing  the  ceiling  is  decorated.  When  the  rooms  are  small 
it  is  best  to  simply  tint  the  ceiling  and  not  make  any  attempt  at  deco- 
rating it.  One  of  the  prettiest  designs  for  a  small  room  is  that  of  a 
greenish-yellow  tint,  with  wild  grasses  struggling  through  it,  the  ceiling 
a  pale  green,  and  the  dado  design  of  lilies  in  the  same  greenish  tint 
combined  with  grayish  shades. 

But  whatever  paper  is  selected,  be  governed  by  the  style  of  the  room 
and  do  not  make  the  walls  seem  to  hold  first  place;  as  they  should 
be  merely  subordinate,  a  background,  and  not  the  most  prominent 
feature. 


1 44  HO  USE  F  URNISHING. 


CARPETS  AND  RUGS. 


Next  to  the  paper  hanging  is  considered  the  subject  of  carpets.  In 
designs  for  floor  coverings  there  is  a  tendency  toward  bright  colors  and 
French  patterns.  The  gigantic  bouquets  and  grotesque  medallion  pat- 
terns of  former  days  have  disappeared,  and  in  their  stead  are  artistic 
designs  in  soft,  low  tones.  For  these  backgrounds,  olive,  India  red,  old 
blue  or  maroon  is  preferred,  on  which  the  designs  are  traced,  although 
many  of  these  are  used  in  plain  colors,  without  designs,  with  perhaps 
the  addition  of  a  border  in  tapestry.  Flower  designs  are  shown  in 
wreaths  of  roses,  sprays  of  apple  blossoms  and  clusters  of  conventional- 
ized passion  flowers  and  leaves.  The  newest  are  mixtures  of  Japanese, 
Egyptian,  Persian  and  Moorish  ideas.  They  come  in  small  floral  figures, 
on  peculiarly-toned  grounds,  in  which  the  greens  are  all  olive  and  the 
browns  bronze  or  golden.  In  ingrain  carpets  may  be  found  the  body 
Brussels  designs  and  colors,  producing  Persian  effects,  with  Egyptian 
figures  in  golden  brown  over  the  surface;  others  are  in  red  and  green, 
red  and  white,  blue  and  white,  or  blue  and  ivor^'.  Some  show  three  or 
four  tints  of  brown,  and  still  others  have  floral  designs  and  odd  conceits 
over  the  corded  surface  in  some  rich  dark,  medium  or  light  shade  of 
the  brown,  slate,  green,  gold  or  mode  hues.  Such  carpets  can  be  used 
for  bed-rooms  and  dining-rooms,  the  larger  designs  being  considered 
appropriate  for  the  two  latter  named  rooms. 

The  body  Brussels  for  good  wear,  handsome  appearance  and  reason- 
able price,  commends  itself  to  all.  Wilton,  which  is  both  elegant  and 
serviceable,  has  a  rich  velvet  pile  face  and  body  Brussels  back.  Usually 
the  patterns  are  the  same  as  the  body  Brussels.  Tapestries  are 
used  for  parlors,  halls,  sitting-rooms  and  bed-rooms.  Velvet  is  soft, 
pretty  and  curious  in  tapestry  patterns.  These  carpets  have  mostly 
flower  and  leaf  designs,  one  of  the  prettiest  designs  being  begonia  leaves 
on  a  light  canary  ground,  and  another  equally  beautiful  has  rustic  twigs 
with  the  strawberry  vine  and  its  red  berries  interlaced  through  it,  with 
green  ferns,  on  a  mossy  green  ground.  This  last  design  is  a  beautiful 
one  for  either  parlor  or  hall.  Many  inexpensive  carpets  are  now  made 
in  the  fashion  of  rugs,  with  plain  center  and  border,  while  a  space  of 
two  feet  of  bare  floor  is  left  around  the  outside.  The  common  ones  are 
sometimes  used  as  crumb  carpets  over  others,  but  when  they  are  in 
good  quality,  and  occupy  the  floor  alone,  it  requires  a  polished  wood 
floor  to  lay  them  upon,  or  a  breadth  of  carpet  in  neutral  tints,  laid 
around  the  outer  edge  of  the  room  so  that  the  fringe  of  the  rug,  when 
laid  in  the  center,  will  rest  upon  it.  Those  who  do  not  like  the  cold 
effect  of  the  floor  outside  of  the  rug,  or  who  do  not  Hke  the  trouble 
of  keeping  it  waxed  and  oiled,  can  use  India  matting  of  dark  red  outside 
of  the  rug  with  as  good  effect  as  if  the  floor  were  stained  and  polished. 


WINDO  W  DRAPERIES.  145 

A  rug  may  seem  expensive,  but  they  last  years  longer  than  a  carpet 
will,  with  the  same  wear,  besides  giving  an  air  of  luxur}^  and  comfort  to 
a  room.  For  the  large  parlor  light  colors  prevail,  as  ecru,  pale  olive,  or 
a  faint,  cold  blue,  while  in  the  smaller  room  warm  maroons,  deep  red  or 
old  blue  make  an  effective  contrast. 

All  parlor  and  hall  carpets  have  borders.  Dark  crimson  carpets  are 
popular  for  halls,  and  those  with  tiny  black  figures  are  very  pretty.  For 
libraries  and  sitting-rooms,  dark  maroon  carpets,  strewn  with  arabesques 
in  black  and  gold,  and  other  designs  in  olives  and  browns,  are  equally 
suitable.  Carpets  with  pearl  white  grounds,  with  pale  rose  or  blue 
morning-glories  strewn  upon  them,  are  for  chambers,  and  with  chintz, 
cretonne  or  Swiss  hangings  are  fresh  and  beautiful.  For  economy  and 
endurance,  the  English  brussels  carpeting  holds  pre-eminent  sway.  It 
comes  m  ecru,  pale  rose,  olive,  pearl,  and  in  faint  blue  grounds,  which 
are  charming  for  small  parlors  and  for  chambers,  while  for  library  and 
dining-rooms  there  are  maroon  and  deep  clive  grounds  on  which  are 
Oriental  designs.  The  American  ingram  is  always  a  safe  investment. 
The  imported  ingrain  has  the  Morris  designs  and  reveals  lovely  blend- 
ings  of  bronze  green  and  pale  blue ;  of  rose-pink,  with  strawberry  reds 
and  porcelain  blue,  or  olive  with  old  gold,  India  red  and  black. 

WINDOW    DRAPERIES. 

There  is  nothing  that  adds  more  finish  and  elegance  to  a  room  than 
appropriate  window  draperies.  An  ugly  curtam  always  makes  a  room 
disagreeable-looking  and  detracts  from  the  harmony  that  should  per- 
vade it;  while  dark,  rich-looking  or  light,  airy-appearing  window 
draperies  have  been  known  to  transform  an  uninviting  room,  as  if  by 
magic,  into  a  harmonious  and  attrav  live  aoar+ment.  Given  a  pretty  car- 
pet and  wall  paper,  with  corresponding  curtains,  and  the  foundation  of 
a  room  is  well  laid  for  any  ornament  or  decoration  that  may  be  added 
to  it. 

Whatever  may  be  the  predominating  tint  of  the  carpet,  the  curtains 
should  lead  it  up  in  a  somewhat  lighter  shade,  or  else  should  decidedly 
contrast  with  it.  At  any  rate,  they  should  correspond  in  color  with  the 
coverings  of  the  chairs,  mantel  draperies  and  sofas,  and  be  of  the  same 
material.  Thus,  silk  or  velvet  coverings  look  out  of  place  with  cretonne 
furniture,  and  vice  versa. 

In  some  rooms,  where  the  chairs  and  other  articles  are  of  wicker  and 
bent  wood,  the  curtains  will  be  of  Japanese  and  other  Oriental  stuffs, 
as  so  much  bamboo  and  rattan  work  comes  from  that  quarter  of  the 
world,  or  else  of  muslins,  white  or  tinted,  or  of  the  various  flowering 
chintzes  which  correspond  with  the  gay  garden  season  in  which  such 
rooms  and  furniture  are  chiefly  used.  Lace  curtains,  too,  are  very  suit- 
able for  the  rooms  for  summer  occupation,  ranging  from  those  which 
10 


146  HOUSE  FURNISHING. 

are  finely  wr  :ught  to  plainer  ones  of  dotted  Swiss  or  muslin,  looped  back 
with  ribbons. 

Whenever  the  ugly  top-piece  called  the  cornice  can  be  dispensed  with 
in  putting  up  curtains,  it  is  best  to  do  so,  and  in  its  place  use  the  curtain 
rod,  which  is  much  more  graceful  and  light,  as  well  as  more  convenient. 
These  poles  are  of  walnut,  nickel,  brass,  ebonized  wood,  or  of  brass- 
tipped  ebony  or  walnut,  with  rings  of  wood  or  brass  to  match  the  rod. 

If  the  material  is  light  and  airy,  the  pole  is  slender  and  the  rings  are 
small ;  but  if  the  curtain  hangs  in  ample  folds  of  rich,  heavy  goods,  the 
poles  and  rings  are  proportionately  heavy,  but  never  anything  but  grace- 
ful and  effective.  It  is  hard  to  make  a  choice  between  the  three — brass, 
ebony  or  walnut ;  but  the  selection  must  of  course  be  governed  by  the 
furniture  of  the  room.  If  of  walnut,  then  the  walnut  rods  are  most  suit- 
able ;  if  ebony  furniture,  picked  out  with  gold  lines,  then  ebony,  brass- 
tipped  rods  are  prettiest,  and  if  the  room  is  furnished  in  dark,  rich 
material,  with  mahogany  or  brass-mounted  furniture,  then  the  curtains 
will  need  corresponding  brass  rods  and  fixtures.  Let  the  draperies 
move  freely  on  the  rod,  so  that  they  may  be  thrown  entirely  back,  at 
will,  in  order  to  throw  needed  lights  on  the  pictures.  The  charm  of 
a  curtain  so  suspended  is  that  it  can  be  slipped  back,  letting  in  the  full 
length  of  golden  sunshine  into  the  room. 

Draping  Curtains  gracefully  is  not  an  easy  task.  The  newest  way 
is  to  gather  the  curtains  into  the  hand,  begmning  at  the  center  of 
the  bottom,  gathering  it  in  large  folds  and  fastening  it  back  at  any 
required  height.  This  shows  whatever  decorations  there  may  be  on 
the  border  down  the  inside  edge.  With  windows  raised  two  feet  or 
more  above  the  floor,  the  curtains  are  but  little  longer  than  the  window, 
and  do  not  touch  the  floor.  In  the  Gothic  the  curtain  is  permissible 
at  only  the  window's  height ;  but  in  the  Renaissance  and  the  Quatorze 
it  may  fall  from  the  cornice  of  the  room  under  its  own  top  pieces,  giving 
greater  height  and  space  to  the  whole  room.  Whatever  be  the  outer 
and  the  inner  curtain,  it  is  necessary  to  have  straight  shades  within  the 
whole  arrangement,  either  of  holland  or  lace. 

A  favorite  plan,  with  respect  to  arranging  lace  or  muslin  curtains,  is 
to  drape  them  across  the  window,  crossing  each  other  half  way  up  the 
window,  rather  high  than  low;  the  curtain  which  starts  from  the  right- 
hand  side  is  draped  or  fastened  back  at  the  left,  and  an  enormous  bow 
of  satin  ribbon,  either  crimson  or  blue,  or  whatever  harmonizes  best  with 
the  furniture  of  the  room,  is  fastened  on  the  curtains  where  they  cross 
the  center;  others  have  each  curtain  fastened  back  by  a  somewhat 
smaller  bow. 

hi  Lace  Curtains  real  Brussels  and  thread  are  the  most  desirable, 
and,  in  a  certain  way,  the  most  economical.  They  are  always  beautiful, 
will  stand  any  amount  of  laundrying.  and  are  easily  mended.     Irish 


WIN  DO  W  DRAPERIES.  147 

ahiique  is  not  as  fashionable  as  those  of  thinner  and  finer  material. 
Nottingham  lace  curtains  are  coarse  and  not  considered  as  elegant  as 
the  dotted  Swiss.  Scrim  and  bunting  comes  in  a  lovely,  unbleached 
tint,  has  a  bordering  of  antique  lace,  and  an  insertion  of  the  same  is  set 
between  rows  of  hem-stitching.  Curtains  of  this  material,  while  they 
are  attractive,  are  but  a  passing  fancy,  and  therefore  are  more  expen- 
sive than  either  Brussels  or  thread,  which  are  always  in  fashion. 

A  lace  curtain,  the  width  and  length  of  the  window,  is  fashionable. 
This  hangs  from  the  cornice,  directly  in  front  of  the  window,  without 
any  fullness,  and  reaches  to  the  ground.  It  softens  and  tones  dov^m 
the  glare  without  darkening  the  room.  These  blinds  are  not  used  in 
the  country  when  a  good  view  is  obtainable  from  the  window,  but  are 
very  general  in  city  drawing-rooms.  Some  ladies  use  curtains  entirely 
of  book  or  spotted  muslin  instead  of  lace,  with  deep  pleated  frills  at  the 
edges. 

For  Sitting-room  or  Bed-room  are  curtains  of  Swiss  or  Madras 
musHn,  overlapping  and  trimmed  with  a  gathered  flounce.  The  holders 
are  of  the  same  material.  Or  else  double  curtains  in  twilled  silk,  satin 
or  foulard,  with  a  wide  band  of  embroidery  or  applique.  Above  the 
curtains  falls  a  narrow  valance,  with  fringe  and  heavy  tassels  if  the  cen- 
ter be  festooned. 

The  transparent  colored  curtains  of  Madras  cloth  in  bright  colors  and 
designs  give  a  lovely  effect  of  illumination  when  the  light  shines  through 
them.  White  batiste,  a  soft  muslin  fabric,  in  square  meshes  like 
grenadine,  is  made  up  most  effectually,  with  wide  lace-like  stripes, 
and  the  lace  striped  batiste  is  edged  with  antique  lace,  or  finished  with 
painted  borders  by  the  home  artist.  Curtains  of  striped,  sprigged  or 
dotted  muslin,  gathered  and  arranged  close  against  the  sash,  to  move 
with  it,  are  also  much  used  for  bed-room,  basement  and  vestibule 
windows. 

Inexpensive  and  pretty  curtains  are  made  of  the  best  quality  of 
cheese-cloth,  with  an  edge  of  antique  lace,  or  a  band  of  flowered  chintz. 
These  long,  draped  curtains  should  have  a  straight  valance,  trimmed  in 
the  same  way  as  the  sides,  placed  at  the  top,  and  falling  over  the  long 
curtains. 

Curtains  formed  of  strips  of  lace  insertion,  alternated  with  strips  of  tur- 
key-red twill,  finished  with  a  border  of  lace,  are  very  pretty,  and  not 
more  expensive  than  curtains  entirely  of  lace.  Strips  of  open-work  mus- 
lin can  be  used  in  place  of  lace  insertion.  More  expensive  materials 
than  Turkey  twill  are  employed  for  these  insertion  curtains,  strips  of 
brocade,  colored  silks,  or  even  satin  being  used. 

Heavy  Curtains  for  parlor  or  library  are  made  of  felt,  momie 
cloth,  raw  silk,  and  India  goods.  The  felt  comes  in  the  softest  art  col- 
ors—bronze,  olive,  myrtle,  rich  crimson  and  dark  wine.     These  are 


14-8  HOUSE  FURNISHING. 

trimmed  with  fringe,  or  with  a  plush  band,  or  with  both.  The  band  is 
attached  with  gay  colored  floss  stitches  in  a  series  of  spread  fans,  and 
again  they  are  not  outlined  at  all.  The  fringes  most  used  on  this 
material  are  called  chenille,  and  are  made  of  wool  in  heavy  ropes  that 
are  generally  shaded  in  one  or  more  colors  and  tipped  with  a  silk  ball 
in  contrast.  Turcoman  is  one  of  the  most  elegant  curtain  goods  in  the 
market.  It  is  in  every  shade  that  artists  love — crimson  and  bronze, 
gold  and  olive,  and  dark,  rich  wine  and  time-honored  Pompeiian  red. 
Turcoman  is  not  unlike  Turkish  toweling,  only  heavier,  thicker,  and  has 
a  wiry  surface.  These  are  made  up  with  superb  dado  and  fringe  bor- 
ders set  at  the  bottom  and  top.  The  dado  is  much  lighter  than  the 
fringe,  although  they  are  both  in  perfect  harmony  with  the  body  of  the 
curtain  and  with  each  other. 

Cheaper  ones  are  of  Canton  flannel,  with  edges  composed  of  a  border 
of  black  velvet,  or  applique  stripes,  or  gold-colored  sateen.  Burlaps  or 
coffee-bagging  curtains  may  be  made  to  resemble  the  richest  Oriental 
fabrics,  by  taking  strips  of  silk,  sateen,  or  some  other  silky-looking 
material,  such  as  silesia,  ard  placing  one  of  orange  or  yellow  next  to 
another  of  black,  then  one  of  blue ;  black  velvet  is  laid  on  the  lower 
edge  of  each  strip. 

A  simpler  yet  equally  artistic  style  of  curtain  is  made  of  dark  red  Can- 
ton flannel,  trimmed  with  horizontal  strips  sewed  on  with  briar-stitch  in 
yellow  silk  or  worsted. 

Two  flowing  curtains  of  tapestry,  plush  or  other  rich  fabric,  bordered 
across  the  top  and  bottom  to  match  the  furniture,  are  selected  for  the 
ground  parlors.  Cretonne  valances  very  much  festooned,  or  else  a  per- 
fectly straight  band  are  put  above  muslin  or  striped  lace  curtains  for 
country  houses  and  for  chambers  in  town  houses. 

For  the  dining-room  and  library,  very  much  heavier  curtains  are  to  be 
chosen  than  for  the  drawing-room,  the  solid  character  of  the  dining- 
room  and  the  grave  one  of  the  library  demanding  it ;  but  in  the  cham- 
bers, the  boudoir  and  sitting-rooms,  lighter,  airier,  more  easily  cleaned, 
and  much  less  expensive  ones  are  the  wiser. 

Dining-room  curtains  are  preferably  of  serge,  satin  cloth,  or  plush, 
finished  with  a  fringe  in.  alternate  coils  and  tiny  balls.  The  holders  are 
of  silk,  plain  or  embroidered,  or  are  newer  still  if  painted. 

Heavy  French  cretonnes,  imitating  Oriental  designs,  and  almost  as 
heavy  as  felt,  are  a  satisfactory  compromise  between  the  more  expen- 
sive curtains  and  the  commoner  cretonnes.  In  fact  the  most  fashion- 
able curtains  are  those  that  have  originality  about  them,  whether  of 
silk,  woolen  or  cotton  texture.  Wealthy  people  indulge  in  antique  bro- 
cades, and  in  new  brocades  of  Oriental,  Chinese,  Japanese  and  Indian 
manufacture ;  people  less  wealthy  invest  in  pretty  woolen  materials,  with 
curious  patterns  and  subdued  colors  ;  or  in  cretonnes  or  whole-colored 
curtains  of  cotton  material  arranged  with  a  contrasting  border. 


LAMBREQUINS  AND  CORNICES,  149 

Portieres  are  curtains  hung  in  open  doorways  leading  from  one 
room  to  another,  and  are  used  in  the  place  of  folding  doors.  In  select- 
ing goods  for  these  hanging  masses  a  stiff  material  is  to  be  avoided,  as 
they  need  to  be  soft  and  cHnging.  These  have  superseded  the  folding 
doors  between  parlors,  and  between  hall  and  parlors,  and  are  made  of 
oriental  tapestry,  sateen,  plush,  raw  silk,  jutes,  velvet  or  felt.  Often 
there  are  no  doors  on  the  parlor  floor,  graceful  hangings  olF  heaviest 
tapestry  being  substituted.  Portieres  are  hung  on  rods  inside  of  the 
parlor,  about  half  a  foot  below  the  casing,  in  order  to  give  a  glimpse  of 
the  next  room,  where,  perhaps,  may  be  caught  a  tantalizing  glimpse  of 
shelves  with  rare  china  or  bric-a-brac.  The  portiere  should  not  repeat 
the  curtains  of  the  room,  but  be  in  almost  direct  contrast  with  it,  only 
carrying  out  the  same  general  idea.  These  are  trimmed  at  top  and 
bottom,  but  not  at  the  sides,  with  bands  of  wide  plush  embroidery,  or 
woven  bands,  finished  with  handsome  fringe. 

Turkey  and  eastern  rugs,  tapestries,  stamped  leather,  and  single 
pieces  of  embroidery  are  often  used  to  hang  over  a  doorway.  Fashion 
drapery  is  an  inexpensive  material  for  door  hangings,  and  may  be 
trimmed  with  two  or  three  shades  in  contrasting  colors,  secured  by 
having  bone  and  point  russe  stitches  in  silk  or  crewel.  Jute  and 
momie  cloth  may  be  trimmed  with  bands  in  the  same  way,  and  finished 
with  fringe.  An  excellent  and  inexpensive  portiere  is  made  of  dark 
olive  oatmeal  cloth,  faced  with  a  deep  border  of  garnet  plush,  or  vel- 
veteen outlined  with  feather  stitch  in  garnet,  old-gold  and  blue. 

Curtain-bands  may  be  made  of  blue  or  crimson  cloth,  or  of  satin, 
embroidered  with  gold  purse  silk.  The  Greek  "  key  "  pattern  is  one 
of  the  most  effective  of  all. 

Silken  curtains  with  a  light  fringe,  or  edged  with  lace,  looped  with 
cords,  are  used  in  archways  and  across  bay  windows,  lace  curtains 
being  next  the  window  in  the  latter  case. 

Do  not  make  the  draperies  too  full  or  too  long.  If  of  thin  material, 
they  should  be  quite  full,  so  as  to  fail  in  graceful  folds,  but  if  of  heavy 
goods  should  be  scant  enough  to  show  the  full  design.  These  hang- 
ings may  touch  but  not  lay  upon  the  floor. 

LAMBREQUINS  AND  CORNICES. 

These  are  but  little  used,  and  in  their  places  are  straight,  deep  val- 
ances, run  on  poles,  with  lace  hangings  underneath.  Still,  for  some 
rooms,  especially  those  having  deep-set  windows,  or  bay  windows,  the 
lambrequin  seems  the  most  appropriate.  For  these  are  used  satins, 
brocades,  embossed  velvets,  plush,  raw  silk,  reps,  momie  cloths  and 
cretonne.  By  laying  broad  bands  of  contrastmg  but  carefully  chosen 
hues  upon  the  body  color,  and  feather-stitchmg  them  on  with  large 
stitches  of  old-gold  or  dull  red,  these  draperies  may  be  made  to  blend 


150  HOUSE  FURNISHING. 

the  discord  of  the  most  ill-conceived  rooms.  Felt  and  wool  goods 
come  in  all  the  soft,  rich  shades.  Never  select  too  bright  a  color ;  it 
is  not  high  or  striking  colors  in  masses,  but  subtle  blendings  and  vivid 
flashes  which  infuse  a  charm  or  illuminate  what  would  otherwise  be 
dark  and  somber.  Maroon,  garnet  and  plum,  with  brighter  trimmings 
are  colors  that  impart  a  warmth  and  vitality  to  a  room  that  is  charm- 
ing. 

Where  the  wall  surfaces  are  entirely  plain  and  the  carpet  little  cov- 
ered with  design,  most  of  the  draperies  may  be  figured  and  elaborate 
in  color  and  effect,  but  if  the  carpets  are  intricate  in  pattern  and  the 
wall  paper  rich  in  colors,  the  draperies  should  be  plain,  and  only  the 
borders  broken  or  complex.  Maroon,  garnet,  sage  green,  olive  green 
and  drab  are  colors  that  will  suit  almost  any  room  and  surroundings, 
and  these  grave  hues  can  be  enlivened  with  trimmings  and  embroide- 
ries in  rich  colors. 

There  are  a  hundred  shapes  in  which  to  make  lambrequins,  either 
festooned,  corded  and  tasseled,  or  just  the  plain  surface  with  a  rounded 
or  square  center.  If  gimp  is  used  to  trim,  it  can  be  scrolled  in  the  cen- 
ter and  in  the  broad  part  of  the  wings,  about  half-way  down.  If  plam 
goods  are  used,  a  band  of  velvet  running  around,  with  a  scroll  pattern 
cut  out  of  the  velvet  for  center  and  sides.  Sew  this  on  close  to  the  edge 
of  the  velvet,  then  edge  it  both  sides  with  thin  cord. 

To  make  a  cornice  for  the  lambrequin  :  Get  a  strip  of  common  wood 
the  width  of  the  window,  six  inches  wide  and  half  inch  thick,  nailing  on 
firmly  two  ends,  corresponding  in  width  to  the  front,  and  projecting  five 
or  six  inches  ;  get  two  cornice  hooks  and  put  them  at  equal  distances 
in  the  window  frame,  then  put  two  screw  eyes  in  the  cornice,  opposite 
the  hooks,  so  as  to  slip  on  easy  and  to  let  the  ends  of  the  cornice  hang 
snug  against  the  wall ;  then  tack  your  lambrequin  upon  it,  but  when  it 
is  hung  Kke  this  (outside  the  cornice),  there  needs  to  be  a  band  of  trim- 
ming across  the  top  of  the  lambrequin — the  same  as  the  rest  of  the 
trimming  will  do — but  those  flowered  or  other  patterned  strips  that  are 
used  down  the  backs  of  easy  chairs,  or  upon  foot-rests,  are  sometimes 
used  as  a  heading  for  lambrequins,  and  they  look  well.  Another  way 
to  make  a  cheap  and  pretty  cornice  is  to  use  the  same  sized  wooden 
frame  described  above.  Go  to  the  paper-hangers  and  get  the  length 
required  of  rich  colored  bordering,  of  which  there  is  so  much  used  at 
present ;  the  colors  and  pattern  are  elegant,  and  cost  a  mere  trifle ;  paste 
this  upon  the  cornice,  then  put  an  inch  and  a  quarter  of  gilded  mold- 
ing at  the  top  and  bottom,  or  black  walnut,  if  preferred.  If  made  like 
this,  small  rings  must  be  sewn  on  the  lambrequins,  and  small  hooks 
be  put  in  the  cornice  (under)  to  hang  them  by. 

To  make  a  cretonne  cornice,  take  a  strip  of  cretonne,  pleat  it  at  the 
edges,  and  tack  it  under  the  bottom  of  the  cornice,  then  take  a  roll  of 


WINDOW  SHADES.  151 

paper,  not  too  thick ;  place  it  in  the  center  and  tack  the  cretonne  over 
it ;  tack  it  to  the  top  so  that  it  will  form  a  half-round,  pink  both  edges 
of  a  strip  of  cretonne ;  make  it  into  ruching  and  run  a  narrow  gimp 
down  the  center  and  nail  it  on  with  gimp  tacks,  top  and  bottom  of  the 
cornice.  These  are  to  hang  over  lambrequins  of  the  same  material  and 
trimming. 

When  the  craze  for  Japanese  goods  came  in,  a  fancy  for  using  cheap 
paper  fans  in  decorations  came  in  with  it.  There  was  a  time  (and  still 
is),  when  rooms  were  littered  with  gaudy  fans,  and  every  door  sur- 
mounted by  them  ;  to  suit  such  surroundings  a  lambrequin  was  made 
of  marv^elous  shaped  wings,  the  center  forming  a  fan,  the  goods  also 
draped  to  form  fans  spreading  from  each  corner  at  the  top ;  the  wings 
were  trimmed,  the  center  fan  having  heavy  fringe  hanging  from  it, 
whilst  those  on  the  sides  were  trimmed  only  with  a  narrow  fluffy  fringe, 
which  gave  a  look  of  feather  edge  to  the  fan-shaped  drapery.  Around 
the  room  in  which  this  was  hung  was  a  border  of  deep  red  cloth,  a 
little  over  a  foot  deep,  and  which  was  stretched  on  the  wall  as  tightly 
as  paper.  This  rqd  cloth  served  as  a  back  ground.  On  this  two  fans 
were  crossed  at  intervals  of  about  a  foot,  while  between  each  pair  of 
fans  was  hung  a  large  peacock  feather.  The  effect  was  striking,  as  the 
distance  softened  the  rough  colors  of  the  fans.  This  design  is  very 
pretty  for  a  studio,  either  public  or  private. 

WINDOW  SHADES. 

Those  who  have  white  shades  and  are  tired  of  them  can  easily  have 
them  colored  a  deep  red  for  the  more  common  rooms,  bath-room,  back 
hall  and  back  windows.  A  rule  of  household  art  is  that  shades  should 
be  the  same  color  as  the  outside  of  the  house,  and  every  one  alike. 
For  instance  a  red  brick  with  white  finishings  should  have  white  shades 
at  the  windows ;  a  white  house,  white  shades  ;  a  gray  house,  shades  of 
the  same  tint  as  the  stone  mountings,  etc.  Brown  shades  are  an  abomi- 
nation even  in  a  brown  house,  and  the  rule  may  be  deviated  from  here, 
and  a  delicate  buff  be  substituted. 

The  most  expensive  and  at  the  same  time  the  most  beautiful  shades 
are  those  of  soft  silk,  shirred  through  the  center  and  at  the  sides,  form- 
ing two  scallops  at  the  bottom,  and  trimmed  with  fringe  of  the  same 
color.  These  are  usually  lined  with  a  contrasting  color,  as  sea-green 
with  pale  pink,  maroon  with  pale  blue,  or  pale  blue  with  rose-pink,  etc. 

As  a  variety  from  white  window  shades  many  ladies  are  embroidering 
in  outline  work  with  filoselle  or  crewel,  gray  or  buff  shades,  in  linen  or 
Holland.  A  simple  pattern,  such  as  morning-glories  or  wild  roses,  is 
worked  in  shaded  silks  or  crewels,  or  in  a  deep  brown  and  crimson 
Roman  key  or  scroll  pattern,  and  finished  with  linen  guipure  or 
linen  fringe.     Shades  with  drawn  work  borders  are  handsome.     Gray 


153  HOUSE  FURNISHING. 

and  cream  colored  linens  are  much  used  with  a  thick  band  of  embroid- 
ery a  couple  of  inches  from"  the  edge,  and  finished  with  antique  lace. 
Some  of  the  handsomest  shades  have  a  band  of  wide  guipure  lace  set 
in  the  center,  finished  with  the  same  lace  edge,  or  set  in,  a  couple  of 
inches  from  the  bottom  and  finished  at  the  edge  with  the  same.  Buff 
linen  with  brown  silk  embroidery  is  considered  good  taste;  also,  striped, 
gray  and  white  Holland  shades,  which  give  a  soft  and  clear  light,  par- 
ticularly the  buff  ones. 

The  question  of  Holland  window  shades  is  generally  settled  by  the 
colors  of  the  room.  Crimson  is  desirable  for  a  north  light,  but  soon 
loses  color  in  the  sun.  For  a  sunny  room  green  and  buff  are  recom- 
mended, with  a  preference  for  buff.  Green  Holland,  though  making 
agreeable  shades,  turns  bluish  by  exposure  to  the  light.  Buff  shades 
keep  their  color  the  best,  and  while  admitting  more  light  when  pulled 
down,  they  keep  out  the  red  or  hot  rays,  and  the  blue  or  growth  pro- 
moting rays,  and  admit  only  the  yellow  rays,  which  are  non-active.  The 
bright,  soft  light  of  a  room  whose  windows  are  shaded  by  buff  Holland 
blinds  is  the  most  agreeable  for  working  that  one  can  have,  allowing 
ample  light  but  no  glare.  Physicians  especially  recommend  buff  shades 
for  the  sick-room. 

VESTIBULE  AND  HALL. 

The  hall  is  the  key-note  to  the  whole  house,  therefore  everything 
about  it  should  be  dark  and  solid.  Light  colors  are  frivolous,  and  gild- 
ing is  out  of  place.  Dark,  rich  colors,  with  a  dash  of  deep  red,  are 
mostly  used  for  wall  and  ceiling  decorations.  Plain  tinted  walls  are  also 
in  good  taste.  If  frescoed  the  color  should  never  be  light  or  airy.  A 
new  paper  for  halls  has  excellent  designs  in  "  tiles,"  in  dark  oli/e  green 
and  gray  tints ;  with  these  are  used  a  corresponding  dado. 

If  possible  have  a  tile  or  inlaid  wood  floor,  but  if  this  cannot  be  had^ 
stain  the  floor  a  deep  wood  brown  with  the  base  boards  and  molding^ 
to  match.  Or  in  place  of  the  stained  floor  use  a  covering  of  wool  or 
India  matting,  and  on  this  it  is  an  excellent  plan  to  lay  the  hall  with  a 
strip  of  carpet  like  that  of  the  stairs,  or  carr^^-the  same  strip  of  carpet 
right  along.  Rugs  are  ver)^  inviting  for  a  wide  hall,  and  are  cleaner 
and  healthier  than  carpets.  The  prettiest  color  for  a  rug  or  carpet  is  a 
crimson  ground  with  small  figures,  or  moss  green  that  has  a  yellow 
glint  under  the  sunshine. 

The  staircase  should  be  well  set  in  the  hall,  but  not  too  near  the  door. 
It  should  be  broad,  if  possible,  with  low,  wide  steps.  The  carpet  should 
harmonize  with  the  appointments  of  the  hall,  and  should  be  made  softer 
and  more  enduring  by  a  pad  beneath.  If  you  have  no  vestibule  doors, 
and  wish  to  make  the  hall  less  in  length,  a  lambrequin  of  dark  clothe 
embroidered  linen  or  heavy  leather  paper,  hung  from  a  strip  fixed  above, 
will  give  effect.     If  the  hall  i^  very  narrow,  don't  attempt  a  magnificence 


VESTIBULE  AND  HALL,  153 

in  the  matter  of  hat-rack  and  stand.  A  mirror,  if  you  will,  with  pegs 
each  side  of  it,  and  a  wood  slab  below  only  wide  enough  to  hold  a  book 
or  "silk  hat,"  with  glove  drawer;  a  small  wood  bracket,  on  the  other 
side,  will  hold  a  salver  or  plate  for  visiting  cards. 

But  little  furniture  can  be  used  in  most  halls,  but  if  wide  enough, 
there  should  be  two  straight-backed  solid  chairs  and  a  sofa.  The  sofa 
may  be  made  like  the  ordinary  Turkish  lounge,  cushioned  all  over  with 
none  of  the  woodwork  showing,  or,  if  there  is  a  recessed  window,  a 
cushioned  seat  just  filling  the  recess  will  be  still  better.  An  ancestral 
chest,  if  you  are  fortunate  enough  to  have  one,  is  much  prized  for  the 
hall-way,  and  the  more  antique  the  better.  With  its  brass  or  bronze 
handles,  its  carved  wood-work,  it  looks  as  if  it  might  have  come  over  in 
the  Mayflower,  and  held  the  riches  of  the  whole  family.  Those  who 
have  them  not,  are  having  the  designs  copied  and  imitated  in  rich  woods, 
and  a  goodly  amount  of  money  they  cost  too.  Some  of  them  stand 
upon  four  square,  solid  feet ;  others  have  lion's  claws  for  support ;  some 
have  one  or  two  drawers  at  the  bottom,  while  a  heavy  carved  Ud  shuts 
in  the  chest  proper.  Many  of  these  odd  chests,  which  had  been  degraded 
to  hold  carpenters'  tools,  or  hid  away  in  the  garret  as  receptacles  for 
rubbish,  are  being  reclaimed,  polished,  and  assigned  to  this  place  of 
honor. 

Here  may  also  be  assigned  a  few  pictures;  good  ones,  hung  low 
down,  and  upon  a  level  with  the  eye.  If  the  hall  is  large  and  well  lit, 
this  is  one  of  the  best  of  places  for  the  family  portraits,  and  even  if  a 
small  hall  it  may  be  beautified  by  a  few  well  selected  pictures.  If  space 
is  denied  for  the  hall  table  or  hat  rack,  a  pair  of  antlers,  horns,  or  even 
several  of  them  may  be  utilized,  hung  one  above  another  in  graduated 
sizes ;  these  make  good  hat-racks  as  well  as  umbrella  holders. 

Umbrella  stands  may  be  bought  or  made  in  many  unique  ways  for 
the  hall,  and  they  are  really  necessary  to  catch  the  drippings  of  umbrellas, 
even  if  there  is  an  umbrella  stand  combined  with  the  hat-rack.  If  the 
hall  doors  have  not  stained  glass  windows,  shades  to  match  those  of 
the  other  windows  may  be  used ;  white  Holland  trimmed  with  antique 
lace  or  embroidered  with  fnnge,  or  an  aesthetic  red  in  silk  or  Holland  is 
now  considered  very  fashionable.  These  red  shades  are  of  plain  Hol- 
land trimmed  with  fringe  or  lace  of  the  same  shade,  or  else  of  shirred 
or  pleated  silk.  The  light  filtering  through  these  red  draperies  give  a 
warm  cheerful  light  to  even  the  darkest  and  gloomiest  hall.  White 
shades  are  hardly  artistic,  and  look  glaring  on  the  outside  of  the  house, 
either  in  parlors  or  halls,  unless  of  lace  or  Swiss,  and  #ien  their  only 
charm  is  their  purity.  And  now  if  you  have  an  old  fashioned  Dutch 
clock,  to  stand  in  the  farthermost  corner  of  the  hall,  one  or  two  deer's 
heads  with  antlers  to  hang  over  the  doors  or  in  a  niche,  a  few  growing 
palms  or  tropical  plants,  you  will  have  the  ideal  hall  of  halls,  even  if  not 
able  to  have  bronze  or  marble  peciestal  figures  and  costly  jars  and  vases. 


154  HOUSE  FURNISHING, 


PARLOR  AND  LIBRARY. 

In  selecting  furniture,  the  first  thought  should  be  given  to  comfort. 
The  best  chairs  and  couches  are  those  which  one  likes  best  and  takes 
most  comfort  in,  whatever  may  be  the  style  or  material.  They  should 
be  graceful,  of  easy  piake  and  covered  with  a  good  serviceable  color  and 
material.  It  is  exceedingly  uncomfortable  to  have  furniture  so  frail 
that  it  is  continually  being  broken  or  defaced,  or  so  handsome  that 
ordinary  mortals  are  afraid  to  use  it,  or  so  delicate  in  color  and  mate- 
rial that  every  touch  soils  it.  The  most  expensive  woods  are  not  always 
the  best  for  furniture  mountings,  especially  in  chairs,  where  the  wood 
is  in  short  lengths  and  small  sizes.  The  best  of  all  woods  is  real  ebony, 
but  its  cost  is  excessive,  and  almost  excludes  its  employment.  Next  to 
the  various  kinds  of  hard  tropical  woods,  Hve-oak  is  the  best  for  furni- 
ture, then  mahogany,  white  oak,  cherry,  maple,  yellow  pine,  walnut, 
ash,  white  pine,  poplar  and  bass-wood.  There  is  a  trifling  difference  in 
the  cost  of  the  last  eight,  the  last  four  being  practically  poor  materials 
for  small  pieces  of  movable  furniture,  because  they  are  soft,  and  are 
easily  dented  or  broken.  In  stationary  furniture  hard  wood  is  not 
practically  so  necessary,  and,  where  economy  is  a  primary  necessity, 
soft  wood  has  the  advantage  of  being  easily  worked  in  the  required 
forms. 

Solidity,  richness  and  comfort  are  combined  in  the  furniture  of  to-day. 
The  styles  of  Queen  Anne  are  revived,  the  solid  Eastlake  designs  are 
in  favor,  and  the  tapestry  for  upholstering  furniture  is  in  English,  old 
Flemish  and  old  Italian  styles.  Eastlake  drawing-room  suites  and 
parlor  sets' have  ebony  and  gilt  frames,  though  there  are  other  styles  in 
French  marqueterie,  inlaid  walnut  and  gilt,  and  carved  French  walnut 
frames.  They  are  upholstered  in  all  shades  of  satin,  satin  brocade, 
brocade  rep,  French  raw  silk,  nouveaux  silk,  silk-faced  sateen,  silk  cor- 
telain,  crimson  silk  plush,  embossed  velvet  and  flowered  cashmere. 
Very  elegant  suites  and  sets  in  all  styles,  and  upholstered  in  these 
goods  are  in  colors  of  blue,  old  gold  and  crimson,  olive-green  and 
brown,  drab,  tan,  amber,  French  gray,  ashes  of  roses,  olive  and  Sal- 
mon color. 

The  favorite  furniture  for  parlors  is  in  the  Turkish  style,  in  which  the 
wood  is  covered  with  soft  upholstery.  Silk  plush  in  oriental  colors,  and 
velvets  in  warm  crimsons  and  shades  are  used  in  covering  tasteful  fur- 
niture. It  is  not  bordered  with  contrasting  colors,  and  no  trimming  is 
used  save  har%ing  tassels  and  heavy  fringe. 

An  arm  chair  of  rattan  is  now  placed  amongst  the  parlor  furniture. 
The  rattan  is  yellow,  black  or  gilded,  and  is  upholstered  in  gay  plush. 
A  little  divan,  furnishing  two  or  three  seats,  covered  with  plush  and 
softly  tufted,  forms  a  center  piece  and  is  a  convenient  and  pretty  addi- 


PARLOR  AND  LIBRARY.  155 

tion  to  a  parlor.  Cabinets  as  antique  and  rare  as  money  can  buy,  made 
of  mahogany  and  ebony  and  plentifully  trimmed  with  brass,  are  used  to 
collect  pretty  articles  of  bric-a-brac  that  else  would  clutter  the  room  too 
profusely.  These  have  beveled  glass  doors,  and  sometimes  are  quaintly 
carved.  Mantel  mirrors  are  much  smaller,  have  beveled  edges  and  are 
furnished  with  shelves. 

One  or  two  good  upholstered  easy  chairs  never  seem  out  of  place, 
even  in  the  most  elegant  parlor,  and  here  and  there  an  occasional  little 
ebonized  and  cane  bottomed  chair  gives  diversity  to  the  looks  of  the 
room,  where  no  two  chairs  should  be  alike.  Tables  are  little  used  here, 
still  we  must  have  one  or  two  to  giv^e  the  whole  a  furnished  look.  A 
spare  table  near  the  bay  window  will  allow  of  a  jardiniere  holding  a  fern 
or  india-rubber  plant  to  stand  in  the  sun.  You  can  have  nothing  better 
than  black  and  gold  for  this  purpose.  There  must  be  some  places  to 
lay  books  and  other  heavy  articles  ;  and  the  table  for  this  office  should 
be  solid  and  should  stand  against  the  wall.  Marble  topped  tables  are 
no  longer  in  use.  Inlaid  or  hand  painted  wood  now  decorates  the  tops 
and  an  embroidered  or  heavily  fringed  scarf  of  plush  is  thrown  across 
the  top,  with  one  end  drooping  over  the  edge.  The  newest  tables  have 
square  corners  and  old  fashioned  twisted  legs.  Pretty  little  tables  for 
standing  at  the  side  of  the  room  have  oval  shaped  tops,  are  elabo- 
rately mounted  with  brass  and  inlaid  in  diamond  and  checker  board 
designs. 

A  plain  straight  sofa  of  black  wood,  with  arms  supported  by  rails, 
and  only  back  and  seat  stuffed,  is  one  of  the  best  makes.  Chinese 
bamboo  sofas  with  plenty  of  movable  cushior^s  are  also  much  favored. 

Grand  or  square  pianos  ^ust  be  entirely  hidden  by  rich  needle-work 
coverings.  The  English  cottage  piano  usually  stands  with  the  back 
toward  the  room,  not  against  the  wall,  and  this  back  is  covered  with 
handsome  drapery. 

Brass  or  Oriental  China  lamps  are  now  the  fashion  for  common  use, 
Venetian  chandeliers  or  large  hanging  brass  lamps  for  receptions.  The 
light  is  much  more  becoming  than  gas,  and  the  shadows  about  the 
room  add  greatly  to  its  charm.  Candles  here  and  there  in  brass  cande- 
labra add  much  to  the  beauty  of  a  reception  room,  and  give  life  and 
sparkle  to  the  wall  decorations.  For  the  artistic  touches  one  needs  to 
choose  carefully  and  judiciously,  or  the  rooms  will  look  over-crowded. 
Upon  the  walls  a  few  pictures ;  if  you  like  the  heads  of  saints,  choose 
those  of  the  old  masters ;  if  atmospheric  effect,  with  glories  of  gold  and 
crimson  sunsets.  Turner;  if  cattle,  where  the  dapple  cows  lie  chewing 
their  cud  in  contentment  upon  the  banks  of  pleasant  streams,  or  in 
meadow  land,  Rosa  Bonheur;  if  of  dogs,  Landseer,  and  so  on. 

In  this  corner  is  placed  an  Eastlake,  Queen  Anne,  jacobin  or  gothic 
style  cabinet,  inlaid  in  gold,  gilt  and  mosaic  work ;  in  that  corner  an 


1-56  HOUSE  FURNISHIi\/G. 

easel  with  gilt  designs,  over  which  fling  a  piece  of  brocade  of  old  gold 
and  peacock  blue  in  Oriental  mixture;  at  the  right  and  left  of  the  lounge 
place  a  pile  of  Oriental  cushions.  A  loosely  held  mass'  of  dark  olive, 
plum-colored  or  garnet  satin  may  be  placed  against  the  wall,  in  an 
alcove  or  the  middle  of  a  panel,  and  a  light-colored  pitcher  hung  on  it, 
with  a  pretty  knot  passed  through  the  handle  and  over  a  large  nail, 
gilt-headed.  An  embroidered  curtain  may  run  on  a  few  feet  of  gilded 
gas-pipe  in  front  of  a  low  book-case.  A  bit  of  rich  material — an  old 
crepe  shawl,  for  instance,  may  be  hung  on  a  home-made  easel,  draping 
a  picture.  A  Roman  scarf  may  be  forgotten  on  a  shelf  in  some  dark 
corner.  A  painted  or  embroidered  silken  curtain  may  hang  beneath  a 
bracket,  supporting  a  bust. 

Persian  embroidered  "  scarfs  "  or  chair  scarfs,  are  now  used  instead 
of  the  obsolete  tidy.  In  the  window  recess  place  a  pedestal  to  support 
a  group  of  figures,  a  statuette,  or  jardiniere  filled  with  flowers  or  plants, 
real,  not  artificial.  An  ottoman,  gilt  frame,  upholstered  in  black  satin, 
embroidered  with  natural  colored  flowers,  will  here  find  a  place.  A 
Turkish,  Byron  or  great  republic  army  easy  chair  will  add  immense 
comfort  to  this  room.  The  center  of  the  mantel  is  usually  occupied 
by  a  handsome  clock  and  bronzes. 

At  either  end  of  the  mantel  a  bust  in  bronze  or  bisque,  or  Louis 
Quinze  designs,  representing  shepherdesses,  village  girls  crowned  with 
flowers,  and  village  lads  with  straw  hats  decked  with  ribbons. 

There  is  still  room  for  a  plaque  upon  which  may  be  exquisite  groups  of 
flowers,  marine  views,  rural  landscapes  or  groups  of  figures  in  quaint 
or  familiar  costumes.  A  pretty  ornament  for  mantel  or  bracket  is  a 
little  frame  in  the  shape  of  a  palette  mouijted  on  a  miniature  easel. 
The  palette  bears  some  neat  design — a  boy  fishing  or  a  little  girl  gather- 
ing flowers — while  in  the  lower  right  hand  comer  is  a  bow  of  dark  red 
or  blue  satin  ribbon.  Plaques  are  brought  out  in  charming  relief  when 
hung  against  a  rich  background  of  velvet  or  silk.  The  Minton  tile  is 
also  largely  used  for  mantel  decoration.  A  single  tile  is  taken,  orna- 
mented with  a  landscape  or  figure-piece  and  then  mounted  on  a  little 
stand.  Back  of  ihe  statuettes  or  busts,  are  placed  silk  or  velvet  ban- 
ners or  fans,  in  deep  rich  colors.  On  the  tables  and  mantel  are  quaint 
card  receivers,  flower  holders,  ornaments  in  bisque,  hammered  brass, 
and  china. 

The  library  has  but  few  ornaments.  Handsome  pictures,  one  or  two 
heavily  carved  massive  tables,  a  few  straight-backed  library  chairs,  and 
one  Sleepy  Hollow  to  curl  up  in  and  read  on  a  stormy  day  or  evening; 
soft  rugs,  a  foot-rest  and  a  bookcase  with  glass  doors,  are  all  that  is 
necessary.  It  is  quite  the  fashion  now  to  have  curtains  on  rods  hung 
before  the  book-case  in  place  of  doors,  but  as  they  do  not  keep  out  the 
dust,  nor  afford  even  a  glimpse  of  the  books  one  is  so  proud  of,  the 
fashion  will  doubtless  prove  to  be  an  evanescent  one. 


THE  SITTING  OR  FAMIL  V  ROOM.  157 


THE  SITTING  OR  FAMILY  ROOM. 

The  sitting-room  is  the  family  room  of  the  house.  Here  they  gather 
for  the  pleasant  chats  of  the  day  or  evening ;  here  is  spent  the  greater 
share  of  their  time,  and  for  this  reason,  if  no  other,  should  this  room  be 
the  prettiest  and  cheeriest  in  the  house.  Let  no  formality  preside  here, 
When  the  room  is  entered  it  should  be  so  bright,  so  cheerful,  that  sad- 
ness and  depression  drop  away.  A  somber  room  will  give  any  one  the 
blues,  and  for  this  reason  use  all  that  is  possible  of  the  bright  martial 
red ;  it  arouses  triumphant  feelings,  joy  and  gayety. 

Get  a  carpet  with  a  deal  of  scarlet  in  it ;  a  cream-colored  ground  with 
deep  scarlet  roses  is  very  pretty,  if  one  can  afford  a  Brussels,  if  not,  the 
new  ingrains  have  beautiful  designs  and  bright  colors.  Have  a  low- 
divan  couch,  with  large  square  pillows  across  the  back,  then  if  one 
wants  to  lie  down,  one  of  the  pillows  can  be  transferred  to  the  head.  A 
Boston  rocker,  handsomely  upholstered,  a  large,  soft,  easy  chair,  a  small 
sewing  chair,  a  bamboo  chair,  with  broad,  flat  arms,  and  a  Shaker  or 
rush-bottomed  chair  of  artistic  design,  are  all  comfortable  and  cheap. 
Numbers  of  small,  oddly-shaped  tables,  low  and  high,  are  placed  about 
the  room  and  used  for  books,  work,  photographs,  and  whatever  one  has 
"  lying  round."  Or  one  large  table,  that  symbol  of  comradeship  and 
content,  and  it  should  always  be  covered  with  a  quiet,  rich,  beautifully 
bordered  cloth.  Gypsy  tables  and  window  stands  are  covered  with 
dark,  rich  stuff,  the  valance  around  caught  up  in  small  festoons  and  fas- 
tened with  bows  or  tassels,  finished  round  the  edge  of  the  table  with 
cord.  If  you  have  a  couch  that  is  stiff  and  ugly,  try  what  a  few  soft 
cushions  will  do. 

If  the  furniture  is  already  bought  in  sets,  it  can  be  covered  with 
different  patterns  of  cretonne,  which  not  only  protects  the  furniture, 
but  gives  a  variety  and  breaks  up  the  stiffness.  Or  buy  the  frame  of 
a  Turkish  chair  or  easy  rocker,  get  it  upholstered  in  white  cotton 
cloth,  buy  dark,  rich  colored  cretonne  and  make  a  cover  for  it,  binding 
it  with  some  pretty  contrast  of  braid,  or  cover  to  match  the  rest  of 
the  furniture ;  you  will  get  an  easy  chair  much  cheaper  this  way  than  by 
getting  it  already  covered.  A  foot  rest  frame  can  be  bought  cheap  ; 
stuff  and  cover  it  with  cotton  cloth  first,  then  embroider  a  piece  of  goods 
and  cover  it  yourself,  finishing  it  off  with  cord  or  narrow  gimp  around 
the  edge.  A  handy  man  with  a  few  carpenter  tools  could  soon  make  a 
nice  easel  out  of  black  walnut,  also  screen  and  pedestals.  An  old  sec- 
ond-hand cabinet,  in  dead  black,  might  be  bought  for  a  little,  and, 
stowed  away  in  a  shady  corner,  would  look  as  well  as  new,  to  hold  a 
few  bric-a-brac  ;  and  for  pictures  select  a  few  choice  engravings  in  plain 
frames. 

This  room  is  also  the  place  for  the  window  garden  (though  some  pre. 
fer  it  in  the  dining-room),  the  aquarium,  fernery,  bird-cage,  book-case 


15a  HOUSE  FURNISHING. 

(if  you  have  no  library),  and  in  fact  any  of  the  odd  things  that  add  to 
the  attractiveness  and  prettiness  of  home.  If  the  book-case  is  not  yet 
filled  with  books  and  has  a  bare  look,  pleat  silesia  or  silk — in  color  to 
correspond  with  the  room — and  fasten  at  top  and  bottom  inside  on  the 
door,  or  make  a  curtain  or  series  of  curtains,  pulling  back  one  of  them 
to  show  an  upper  shelf  of  books  (the  filled  shelf),  or  one  filled  with  quaint 
bits  of  china  or  specimens.  The  upper  shelf  of  a  book-case  is  often 
devoted  to  china,  curiosities,  or  specimens. 

The  panels  in  window-shutters,  doors  and  over-mantels  (as  the 
shelves  for  holding  china  are  called)  are  often  painted  in  oils,  or  papered 
to  match  the  walls.  Tall,  stiff  flowers,  such  as  the  iris,  sunflower,  fox- 
glove, etc.,  are  the  best  for  painting,  or  a  branch  of  cherry  or  apple 
blossoming  tree  straggling  from  panel  to  panel  in  Japanese  fashion. 

Or  when  you  have  an  old-fashioned  cupboard  in  the  sitting-room 
that  you  don't  seem  to  know  just  what  to  do  with,  take  off  the  doors, 
paint  the  inside  a  deep  rich  red,  or  cover  sides  and  shelves  with  cloth  of 
the  same  red  shade.  Put  a  straight  piece  of  leather,  pinked  on  lower 
edge  across  the  shelves,  and  fasten  with  brass  upholstering  nails.  In 
this  alcove  or  recess  put  all  the  quaint  vases,  china,  brass  ornaments — 
anything  odd  and  pretty.  Or  it  may  be  used  for  the  book-case.  Or 
arrange  curtains  on  a  rod  to  draw  across  the  opening.  A  few  of  these 
tastefully  arranged  things  give  an  air  of  comfort  and  luxury  to  a  room 
hardly  to  be  estimated  by  the  small  amount  expended. 

Small  gypsy  tables,  covered  with  pretty  material  and  fringe,  are  just 
the  thing  for  the  work-basket,  books,  or  pots  of  flowers. 

An  ordinary  stone  jar,  such  as  pickles  and  other  things  are  kept  in, 
may  be  painted  a  chocolate-brown  or  dark  red,  and  decorated  with 
ferns,  flowers,  birds  and  butterflies.  Ginger  jars,  small  stone  jugs, 
whatever  has  a  good  or  classical  shape,  may  be  made  a  thing  of  beauty, 
if  harmony  and  taste  are  carefully  observed. 

There  must  be  a  bracket  here  and  there  beneath  a  picture,  where  a 
pot  of  ivy  can  be  placed  to  form  a  graceful  framing  to  the  portrait  per- 
haps of  some  loved  one,  or  for  an  engraving  or  pretty  chromo. 

A  bunch  of  oats,  with  long,  even  stems,  tied  with  a  band  of  wide  satin 
ribbon  and  suspended  by  the  same  under  a  picture,  is  a  simple,  pretty 
decoration  within  the  reach  of  almost  anyone. 

A  large  pampas  plume  with  five  or  six  long  peafowl  feathers,  using 
the  plume  as  a  background  for  the  feathers,  all  tied  with  a  band  of  pea- 
cock blue  or  green  ribbon,  is  often  fastened  on  the  wall  in  a  comer, 
over  the  door,  over  or  under  a  picture,  or  on  the  upper  comers  of  an 
easel  or  high  music  stand.  If  these  are  pressed  in  packing,  shake  them 
over  the  grate  or  near  the  stove,  and  the  heat  will  spread  and  make  them 
fluffy. 

Large  vases  filled  with  one  large  or  three  smaller  pampas  plumes, 


ARTISTIC  AND  IDEAL  ROOMS.  159 

make  a  pretty  corner  piece,  and  also  add  much  to  the  attractiveness  of 
a  mantel-shelf. 

One  or  two  bright  tinted  fans,  hung  on  the  wall,  a  bunch  of  catkins, 
tied  with  a  bright  bow  of  ribbon,  or  fastened  on  the  picture  cords,  a 
large  vase  in  the  corner  filled  with  sprays  of  autumn  leaves,  ferns,  or 
wild  grasses,  are  also  desirable  ornamentations.  Long  shelves  can  be 
made  very  handsome  by  putting  on  them  shelf  draperies,  with  window 
valances  to  match,  for,  by  a  judicious  use  of  draperies,  in  curtains,  win- 
dow and  mantel  lambrequins,  and  bits  of  stuff  arranged  here  and  there, 
a  home  can  be  made  to  look  very  beautiful  and  artistic.  It  is  not  so 
much  comfortable  solidity  in  the  best  rooms  that  should  be  aimed  at; 
but  a  bright  and  cheerful  appearance,  which  can  be  obtained  by  artistic 
furniture,  gracefully  draped  curtains,  and  well  chosen  wall  hangings. 

ARTISTIC  AND  IDEAL  ROOMS. 

These  rooms  are  hardly  parlor  or  sitting-rooms — that  is,  they 
follow  no  especial  idea  in  regard  to  furnishing,  but  every  article  is 
bought  with  an  idea  to  its  place  and  future  worth,  thus  successfully 
embodying  an  artistic  and  ideal  home.  As  you  enter  through  the  hall 
into  the  parlors  you  see  beautiful  soft  rugs  covering  the  two  parlor 
floors,  front  and  back  parlor.  Outside  of  the  rug  for  the  space  of  a 
foot  or  more  the  wood  has  been  stained  and  polished.  Scattered  around 
the  room  are  easels  of  wood,  plainly  made  and  put  together,  serving  as 
a  support  for  the  picture  only,  and  not  the  picture  serving  only  as  a 
medium  to  show  off  the  easel.  The  mantel  is  filled  with  bric-a-brac,  odd 
china  and  pictures.  Between  the  doors  is  a  large  lake  gull,  suspended 
by  an  invisible  wire  and  swaying  in  the  air  with  poised  wings  as  if  ready 
for  a  flight.  Book-cases  are  fitted  in  each  side  of  the  mantel,  made  only 
of  shelves  with  end  pieces,  in  as  simple  a  fashion  as  possible,  and  filled 
with  books  from  the  floor  upward  to  the  top  of  the  mantelpiece,  which 
is  as  high  as  the  bookcase  extends. 

Among  the  quaint  things  in  this  pretty  house  is  a  spinning-wheel  in 
one  corner,  just  discernible  through  the  door ;  at  the  farther  end  of  the 
hall  is  one  of  the  tall,  old-fashioned  clocks,  and  over  the  back  mantel- 
piece is  an  ebonized  cabinet  the  length  of  the  mantel  and  nearly  to  the 
height  of  the  ceiling,  filled  with  odd  and  quaint  pieces  of  china. 

Across  the  front  of  the  bay  window  are  lace  curtains,  gracefully 
draped  and  suspended  from  poles  from  which  drops  a  straight  valance 
of  rich  material  with  handsome  fringe,  and  which  is  repeated  in  the 
mantel,  chair  and  table  draperies.  Above  the  front  mantel  is  an  ebon- 
ized cabinet  filled  with  china  and  brass  ornaments.  On  a  bracket  in 
one  corner  is  an  old  china  tea  pot,  ever  and  ever  so  many  years  old,  and 
on  the  wall  near  it  a  plate  hung  on  silver  hooks.  The  easels  are  tied 
with  bright  bows  and  loops  of  ribbon,  and  fastened  on  one  of  the  bam- 


16(>  HOUSE  FURmSHING. 

boo-rods  is  a  bunch  of  pea-fowl  feathers.  The  quaintly  shaped  rattan, 
bamboo  and  willow  chairs  have  bright  bands  of  ribbon  interlaced 
through  the  openings,  and  tied  here  and  there  in  gay  knots  and  ends. 

In  one  corner  stands  a  v/ork-basket  looking  as  if  fair  fingers  had  left 
it  but  a  few  moments  before  ;  one  or  two  comfortable  looking  ottomans, 
and  a  camp-stool  foot-rest.  Over  one  high-backed  easy  chair  is  a 
bolster  to  make  the  head  lie  more  comfortably;  on  the  low  divan  couch 
an  afghan  thrown  across  for  the  master  to  draw  over  the  feet  while 
reposing  after  a  weary  day  of  labor ;  between  the  parlors  and  dining- 
room  are  portieres  through  which  one  catches  a  glimpse  of  the  side- 
board with  niches  and  shelves  filled  with  large  vases,  odd  pitchers,  and 
quaint  china,  but  with  not  a  glimpse  of  silver — that  glittering  material 
now  being  banished  from  the  side-board. 

On  one  side  of  the  fireplace  is  a  pile  of  cushions  to  sit  upon,  in  lieu  of 
an  ottoman,  of  which  there  are  several  scattered  here  and  there 
throughout  the  room.  These  things  do  not  seem  overcrowded,  though 
they  may  seem  so  to  read  of  them,  for  the  parlors  are  large,  everything 
seems  to  fit  into  place,  and  into  the  place  especially  designed  for  it. 

Here  is  embodied  the  spirit  of  home.  From  the  time  you  cross  the 
threshold  you  feel  at  ease ;  rooms  well  lit,  not  darkened  with  draperies, 
and  yet  such  cool,  shadowy,  restful  light.  The  beautiful  soft  rugs,  the 
easels  and  bookcases  with  their  rich,  dark  woods,  give  an  air  of  richness 
and  subdued  luxury.  It  is  not  so  much  the  wealth  here  as  the  good 
taste  displayed  that  makes  this  home  so  charming.  Easy  comfortable 
chairs  of  willow,  rocking  chairs  made  to  rock  in  and  not  to  sit  up  straight 
without  any  comfort  to  tired,  wearied  bodies ;  a  divan  couch  with  soft 
pillows — all  making  a  place  of  comfort  instead  of  one  to  be  tortured  in. 

This  home  can  be  easily  copied  by  those  who  do  not  want  any  "  set " 
parlor,  library  or  sitting  room,  but  want  the  three  combined,  as  is  so 
often  desirable  in  the  ordinary  city  house.  If  the  house  can  be  well 
heated  in  winter,  it  is  an  improvement  to  take  off  the  doors  that  lead 
from  hall  to  parlors  or  dining  room,  and  in  their  places  put  heavy  por- 
tieres. These  give  the  effect  of  the  whole  house  being  one  room,  and 
in  going  up  the  stairs  or  through  the  hall  one  gets  a  glimpse  of  all  the 
rooms  near  or  beyond.  These  portieres  in  a  small  house  make  it  appear 
ver)'  much  larger,  besides  giving  a  luxurious  effect  to  the  whole  house. 

INEXPENSIVE  HOME  ROOMS. 

The  rooms  heretofore  described  are  in  reach  of  most  of  those  who 
are  building  and  making  homes  for  themselves  and  family,  and  yet  they 
do  not  meet  the  wants  of  the  vast  army  of  those  who  earn  but  little 
beside  the  bare  necessaries  of  life.  In  them  is  engrafted  the  same  love 
of  beauty  as  is  given  to  their  wealthier  sisters,  and  yet  without  the 
means  to  gratify  it.     For  these  are  the  following  words  written  : 


INEXPENSIVE  HOME  ROOMS.  IGl 

Make  the  home  bright,  cheery  and  comfortable.  Buy  simple  chintzes, 
in  fast  colors,  that  can  be  washed  often,  without  detriment  to  material 
or  color.  Purchase  but  few  things,  but  have  them  plain,  substantial  and 
above  all  comfortable.  Have  nothing  cheap-looking  and  gaudy,  but 
aim  at  durability,  plainness  and  neatness. 

First  commence  with  the  walls  ;  have  them  tinted  a  delicate  gray  or 
papered  with  a  light  gray  paper — it  matters  not  how  cheap — it's  the 
color  you  want,  and  because  there  are  so  many  new  patterns  in  wall 
paper,  one  can  get  the  light  gray  or  that  with  small  delicate  running 
vines,  very  cheap,  and  if  you  can  put  it  on  yourself  you  will  hardly  feel 
the  cost  of  it.  Get  a  border,  if  possible  with  panels,  shading  on  the 
gray.  Or  a  border  can  be  made  by  buying  a  roll  of  paper  with  wide 
stripe  of  flowers,  vines,  or  scroll  patterns,  and  trim  each  one  with  a 
sharp  pair  of  scissors  until  only  the  pattern  is  left,  with  the  background 
or  margin  cut  off;  if  one  vine  does  not  make  a  deep  enough  border, 
take  two,  or  even  three,  and  paste  one  above  the  other,  and  you  have 
a  border  beautiful  in  its  effect  and  yet  not  expensive.  Also  a  very 
handsome  paneled  border  may  be  purchased  by  the  roll  in  wall  paper, 
and  then  cut  into  bordering ;  usually  it  comes  in  three  strips  and  cuts 
to  advantage  for  a  border.  Or  for  one  who  is  fond  of  the  oafk  tints,  if 
the  room  is  finished  in  natural  wood,  get  a  buff  tinted  paper  and  a  car- 
pet of  oak  and  green ;  it  is  warmer  looking  in  winter  and  can  be  toned 
down  with  a  deal  of  white  in  summer.  The  wood  tints  can  be  brought 
out  in  the  border  arid  all  harmonize.  If  the  gray  paper  is  used,  have 
the  woodwork  a  pale  gray,  it  is  prettier  than  pure  white  for  a  common 
room,  and  keeps  clean  much  easier ;  but  don't  make  the  mistake  of 
getting  dark  gray  for  any  of  these  things  spoken  of. 

The  prettiest  carpet  for  a  sitting-room — and  only  one,  unless  the  fur- 
niture is  quite  expensive — is  an  ingrain  one,  scarlet,  green  and  white 
being  the  most  durable  colors,  will  stand  the  most  wear,  and  show  the 
least  dirt,  after  many  years  of  usage.  But,  if  this  seems  too  gay,  and 
perhaps  it  is,  a  gray,  with  darker  shades  in  small  designs  or  in  tiny  run- 
ning vines,  with  scarlet  berries  is  very  pretty  Avoid  set  figures  in  a 
common  carpet ;  get  an  undecided,  running,  or  wood-like  pattern,  and 
it  will  never  grow  old  to  you.  If  you  start  with  a  pretty  shade  of  gray, 
a  neutral  tint,  then  you  have  a  good  foundation  to  commence  upon — a 
suitable  background  for  any  color  you  may  want  to  bring  into  your 
house. 

Now  that  the  carpet  and  walls  are  planned,  next  come  the  curtains. 
Don't  purchase  cheap  lace  curtains  or  lambrequins — the  latter  are  out  of 
fashion,  valances  being  used  in  their  place — or  light  gray  or  red  Hol- 
land shades  are  very  pretty  for  this  style  of  rooms.  These  may  be 
trimmed  with  fringe,  with  one  tassel  at  the  bottom,  or  be  perfectly 
plain.  White  cloth  with  antique  lace  across  the  bottom,  or  a  tassel, 
11 


162  HOUSE  FURNISHING, 

make  simple  but  tasty  shades,  and  are  much  prettier  than  the  deep 
lambrequin,  shutting  out  both  light  and  air,  which,  unless  very  skillfully 
made,  is  clumsy  at  its  best.  The  shades  should  be  on'  rollers  so  that 
they  can  be  easily  let  down  or  pulled  up.  If  there  are  no  blinds  at  the 
windows  and  the  room  is  likely  to  be  too  light,  get  the  thick  oil  shade, 
white  or  gray. 

The  next  to  be  thought  of  is  a  large  table ;  a  marble  top  is  expen- 
sive, looks  cold  and  is  forbidding.  Get  a  long,  oval-topped  table — if 
the  room  is  large ;  there  are  dining  tables  with  one  leaf,  or  get 
one  made  to  order  with  three  cross  legs,  or  four  single  ones,  and  cover, 
with  ladies'  cloth,  .felt  or  broadcloth ;  the  latter  cloth  is  very  wide, 
and  you  only  want  the  length  ;  put  a  thick  sheet  of  wadding,  or 
several,  under  this,  and  then  finish  with  common  furniture  ball  fringe. 
The  cloth  should  be  made  to  fit  the  top,  wiih  room  enough  to  turn 
over  the  edge,  and  fastened  with  small  tarks.  Put  on  the  fringe  with 
tiny  upholstering  tacks.  They  are  much  better  for  this  purpose  than 
the  white-headed  or  brass  ones,  as  the  brass  ones  turn  black  and  the 
white  ones  are  too  cold-looking.  A  pine-top  is  good  enough  for  this 
table,  9.S  it  is  entirely  out  of  sight.  If  you  prefer,  make  a  square  table- 
spread  of  cretonne  or  broadcloth,  in  the  many  ways  described  in  the 
fancy  work  department.  A  square  of  cretonne  with  a  wide  stripe 
around  the  edge  makes  an  easily  arranged  and  inexpensive  cover. 
When  the  family  are  gathered  around  this  table  at  night,  under  the  gas 
jet,  or  with  the  lamp  overhead — a  swinging  lamp  is  very  pretty,  if  it 
comes  within  the  range  of  the  purse — or  on  the  table,  the  latter  filled 
with  books,  papers  and  a  work-basket — even  these  alone  will  make  a  room 
look  cheerful. 

Still,  we  must  have  some  chairs  to  sit  upon.  Get  a  large  Boston 
rocker,  or  two  of  them,  and  cover  with  cretonne  or  chintz ;  another 
of  the  large,  splint-bottomed  chairs  with  wide  arms,  then  an  easy 
camp  chair  and  a  small  rocker,  will  complete  about  all  the  chairs  one 
can  get  into  this  room.  A  willow  one  is  pretty,  easy  and  durable,  pro- 
viding one  has  money  enough — but  that  can  be  left  for  the  future — 
they  make  an  acceptable  present  for  the  wife  about  Christmas  time. 

A  couch  is  as  necessary  as  chairs,  not  to  look  at,  but  for  comfort  only. 
Directions  for  making  an  inexpensive  one  are  given  in  "  Home-Made 
Furniture  "  notes,  as  well  as  for  many  other  pretty  things  for  this  room. 
One  or  two  small  stands  help  fill  up,  and  give  lightness  to  the  room, 
and,  covered  with  a  pretty  spread  or  two,  will  hold  a  vase,  cabinet 
photograph,  or  books. 

Nothing  has  been  said  of  accessories,  and  yet  they  are  the  very  things 
that  give  life  and  character  to  a  room.  Small  engravings  from  maga- 
zines, cabinet  pictures,  and  tiny  flower  subjects  may  be  framed  at  small 
cost,  and  you  can  make  the  passepartout  frames  as  well  as  those  pur- 


INEXPENSIVE  HOME  RuOMS.  1(53 

chased  at  the  picture^store.  Small  ottomans  can  be  made  of  tobacco 
drums,  small  boxes  and  three-legged  stools,  wuh  pine-tops  and  walnut 
legs.  These  should  all  be  covered  with  nearly  the  same  quality,  but 
different  patterns,  and  all  the  colors  should  harmonize,  that  is,  the 
principal  colors  be  carried  out — gray  and  scarlet. 

Tiny  Parian  marble  busts,  light  colored  fans,  small  Japanese  banners, 
or  parasols,  are  an  inexpensive  but  pretty  way  of  decorating.  With  a 
few  of  these  on  the  walls,  or  fastened  up  somewhere,  they  give  a  dash 
of  color  to  the  room,  with  the  delicate  gray  making  a  lovely  back- 
ground, A  gay,  bright,  opened  parasol,  suspended  from  each  corner 
against  the  side  walls,  gives  an  odd  and  unique  effect  to  the  room; 
a  spray  of  wheat  or  oats  tied  with  a  bright  bow  of  ribbon ;  two  or 
three  peacock  feathers,  carelessly  fastened  ;  all  of  these  things,  simple 
as  they  are  and  may  be,  give  an  effect  to  the  room  that  really  gives  it 
an  air  of  elegance.  A  large,  old-fashioned  pitcher,  filled  with  grasses,, 
cat-tails  or  ferns  placed  in  a  corner  or  on  a  stand  helps  to  fill  up  this 
representative  room.  One  or  two  glass  shelves  (purchased  at  the  gla- 
zier's, 36x6  inches  long),  put  up  on  brackets,  are  very  convenient  for 
small  ornaments,  easels,  photos,  vases  and  curiosities.  Or,  instead,  it 
may  be  a  wooden  shelf,  with  a  straight  drapery,  to  match  the  other  fur- 
niture covering. 

If  valances  are  desired,  or  simple  curtains  of  cheese-cloth,  muslin, 
chintz  or  cretonne,  they  should  be  suspended  from  a  rod.  A  cheap 
one  is  made  by  taking  two  small  wooden  balls  and  putting  them  on  the 
ends  of  iron  rods  (the  kind  purchased  at  hardware  stores),  or  turned 
wooden  rods,  and  put  up  outside  the  window  casing,  on  large  iron 
hooks.  The  rods,  balls  and  hooks  should  be  painted  or  stained  to 
match  the  prevailing  color  of  the  curtain  drapery,  or  to  match  the  wood 
of  the  furniture.  These  rods  are  simple,  light  and  pretty,  and  do  not 
cost  a  tenth  part  of  even  the  simplest  bought  at  the  upholsterers.  If 
gilded,  they  cost  but  little  more,  and  are  much  prettier.  These  rods 
for  curtains  are  much  more  desirable  than  brackets  or  cornices  of  any 
description.  If  the  walls  are  low,  the  curtains  can  be  hung  above  the 
wmdow  frame  next  to  the  ceiling,  and  the  walls  will  look  higher,  also 
the  windows.  If  only  lace  curtains  are  used,  with  neither  curtains  nor 
shades  underneath,  a  deep  frill  can  be  made  of  jute,  rep,  cretonne, 
or  any  plain  material,  and  trimmed  with  bands  of  velvet  and  fringe, 
and  put  with  the  rings  on  the  outside  of  the  lace.  If  made  of  this 
material  they  must  be  a  little  full  and  nearly  half  a  yard  deep  ;  if  cheap- 
ness is  desirable,  any  bright  color  of  silesia  can  be  tacked  on  the  wall 
under  the  rod,  scolloped  on  the  bottom  and  hung  under  the  lace,  thus 
concealing  the  wall. 

A  pretty  ornament  to  put  over  the  door  is  a  large  horseshoe,  covered 
with  a  row  of  peacock  eyes  and  suspended  by  green  satin  ribbon.     This 


1G4  HOUSE  FURNISHING. 

is  expensive  where  the  feathers  must  be  bought,  but  many  have  the^e 
already,  and  this  is  a  good  way  to  utilize  them.  Cabinet  photos  may 
be  slipped  by  one  corner  under  a  band  of  ribbon,  tacked  to  the  wall, 
and  the  spaces  filled  in  with  smaller  cards.  Steel  engravings,  crayons, 
water  colors,  and,  in  fact,  nearly  all  pictures  except  oil  paintings,  may 
be  simply  framed  with  glass  and  paper  binding,  wiih  rings  at  the  back 
to  hang  up  by.  Better  have  a  good  picture  and  a  simple  frame,  than  a 
poor  picture  and  an  expensive  frame.  This  simple  binding  does  not 
detract  from  the  looks  of  the  picture,  but  leaves  it  to  stand  upon  its 
own  merits,  and  when  able  to  buy  a  frame  suitable  to  the  wants  of  the 
picture,  all  that  is  needed  to  be  done  is  to  put  this  as  it  is,  glass,  bind- 
ing and  all,  in  the  new  frame. 

If  back  of  the  mantel  shelf,  brackets  and  statuettes,  are  put  strips  of 
wine-colored  velvet  paper,  it  is  a  great  improvement,  throwing  out  into 
bold  relief  all  the  objects  in  front  of  it.  Old  fashioned  vases,  however 
large  and  ugly,  can  be  suspended  in  the  corners  by  small  silver  wire  and 
filled  with  growing  vines,  which  half  conceal  the  outlines  and  make  it 
appear  to  advantage.  Or  an  old  churn  may  be  converted  into  a  fernery 
by  painting  it  a  suitable  color  and  decorating  it  with  bands  of  flowers 
and  vines  or  Japanese  figures,  and  if  placed  in  a  wooden  bowl,  orna- 
mentecl  to  match  the  churn,  and  it  also  filled  with  vines,  it  will  make  a 
unique  double  fernery. 

For  the  working  girls — who  are  alone  trying  to  make  homes  for  them- 
selves—though it  may  be  only  one  room,  rented  or  at  home,  as  the  case 
may  be,  the  above  words  are  also  intended*  If  able  to  have  but  one 
room,  have  the  divan  couch  for  a  bed,  and  with  a  box  underneath  to 
keep  the  bed  clothes  in,  none  would  imagine  that  the  couch  served  a 
double  service,  that  of  a  lounging  place  by  day  and  a  resting  place  at 
night.  The  ottomans  or  window  boxes  will  serve  as  packing  boxes  for 
clothes.  If  you  have  a  wardrobe  with  glass  doors,  you  can  have  cur- 
tains back  of  it,  or  the  closet  door  may  be  taken  off  its  hinges  and  a  long 
loose  gathered  curtain  put  in  its  place,  thus  giving  an  appearance  of 
that  great  desideratum  and  which  is  so  often  lacking  in  a  small  house — 
room.  The  camp  foot-rest  can  serve  for  ottoman  or  chair,  if  room 
must  be  utilized. 

If  there  is  an  old  fashioned  mantel  in  the  room  that  you  don't  know 
what  to  do  with,  because  it's  ugly  and  ill-shaped,  put  in  the  fire-place  a 
fire-board  (providing  the  fire-place  is  not  used),  and  cover  it  with  deep 
red  velvet  paper;  repeat  this  above  the  mantel  shelf  to  the  ceiling. 
Put  up  the  sides  a  band  or  wood  or  gilt  molding.  Valances  of  cotton 
flannel  at  the  window,  laid  in  double  box  pleats,  with  the  same 
covering  the  mantel  shelf  are  very  pretty,  either  for  bedroom  or  sitting 
room.  If  the  room  has  an  alcove  off  from  it,  curtains  of  the  same 
flannel  draped  back  are  exceedingly  pretty.     A  still  greater  improve- 


THE  FAMIL  V  DINING  ROOM,  165 

ment  is  to  place  several  shelves  above  the  mantel,  nearly  to  the  ceiling. 
These  can  be  made  of  pine  to  imitate  stained  walnut,  or  ebonized,  or 
made  of  the  natural  woods.  With  the  velvet  paper  background,  the 
effect  is  very  pretty  anrl  the  shelves  have  the  appearance  of  a  cabinet 
'  and  serve  the  same  purpose.  Or  a  curtain  on  a  small  rod  may  be  put 
below  the  shelf  in  front  of  the  fire-board,  with  a  mantel  drapery  to  match. 
The  most  simple  drapery  for  a  shelf  is  made  by  taking  a  straight 
piece  of  felt  or  wool  goods  the  length  of  the  outside  of  the  shelf,  allow- 
ing for  width,  the  depth  of  the  shelf,  and  about  six  inches  beside ;  trim 
the  bottom  with  fringe,  put  a  band  above  the  fringe  or  not,  as  you  pre- 
fer ;  lay  it  flat  on  the  shelf,  and  where  it  hangs  down  at  the  ends  lap  it 
with  a  pleat  to  fit  the  shelf;  fasten  at  each  end  with  two  tacks  and  the 
drapery  is  finished.  (If  you  do  not  understand,  take  a  strip  of  paper, 
follow  directions  and  you  will  quickly  get  the  idea.)  This  shelf  cover 
is  very  convenient,  as  it  can  be  laid  on  any  shelf  and  removed  when 
ready  to  sweep,  clean,  or  dust  the  room 

But  however  the  room  is  furnished,  give  it  an  individuality  of  your 
own.  Have  a  part  of  yourself  in  it,  though  you  may  not  have  followed 
a  line  of  art,  or  obeyed  one  laid  down  rule.  Even  this  is  better  than 
a  room  planned  by  line  or  rule,  with  its  air  of  stiffness,  like  a  furniture 
shop. 

THE  FAMILY  DINING  ROOM. 

The  family  dining  room  is  one  which  should  receive  especial  atten- 
tion. The  first  impression  which  it  should  make  on  the  beholder,  and 
the  constant  one  upon  its  occupants,  should  be  that  of  solid  comfort. 
If  it  is  possible  to  have  but  one  handsome  room  in  the  house,  let  all  the 
others  be  comfortable  ones,  but  the  dining  room,  luxurious,  if  possible. 
Let  it  not  be  fussy,  airy  or  light ;  everything  must  be  dark,  solid  and 
substantial.  The  colors  must  be  those  deep,  rich  ones  that  hold  their 
own — the  rich  crimsons,  the  dark  blues,  the  dull  Pompeiian  reds  and 
olives,  or  any  of  the  kindred  tints  that  do  not  look  faded  or  suggest 
economy. 

As  for  the  walls  of  the  dining  room,  the  rich,  warm  colors  are  the 
best,  and  under  no  circumstances,  are  light  papers  desirable.  Solid 
colors  are  but  little  used,  but  instead  are  copies  of  old  tapestries,  Flem- 
ish, and  many  ather  fabrics,  of  which  the  dominant  shades  are  moss- 
green,  bronze,  olive,  etc.  These  are  neither  light,  nor  very  dark ;  they 
do  not  absorb  the  light,  and  form  a  good  background  for  pictures, 
while,  at  the  same  time,  they  are  dark  enough  in  tone,  to  prevent  any- 
thing like  a  violent  and  crude  contrast  with  the  dark  wood  work  and 
furniture. 

If  one  may  have  gilding  in  the  paper  anywhere,  it  is  in  the  dining 
room,  and  that  is  the  sole  place  where  it  can  be  used  to  much  purpose, 
for  it  adds  to  the  desired   idea  of  richness   there.     Everywhere  else 


166  HOUSE  FURN'ISHING, 

gilding  is  only  to  be  used  to  enhance  the  effect  of  beauty,  to  throw 
up  lights,  to  point  out  contrasts.  Gilding  is  especially  desirable  if  the 
room  be  on  the  dark  side  of  the  house,  for  it  supplies  a  light  of  its  own, 
independent  of  the  sunlight,  and  a  gilded  background  is  frequently  not 
amiss  in  setting  off  such  pictures  as  one  may  put  upon  dming  room 
walls. 

The  next  item  of  importance  is  the  floor ;  here  m.ay  be  placed  the 
rug,  with  its  border  of  bare  floor  or  parquetr}',  or  the  entire  floor  laid 
in  choice,  geometric  designs  of  colored  woods  is  equally  suitable ;  or 
if  laid  in  alternate  strips  of  oak  and  walnut,  or  cherry  and  southern 
pine,  it  is  but  little  more  expensive  than  common  pine.  Over  any  of 
these  floors  in  winter  the  drugget  is  to  be  laid,  and  dispensed  with  in 
summer  or  not,  according  to  taste.  If,  however,  an  entire  carpet  is 
preferred,  remember  that  green,  drab  and  red  are  the  least  desirable 
colors.  For  this  room  should  be  chosen  carpets  combining  the  colors 
of  the  wall  paper  in  the  dark,  rich  shades  belonging  to  Turkish  and 
Persian  designs. 

Whatever  the  carpet  is,  the  curtains  should  carry  up  this  idea,  and 
they  need  to  fall  in  heavy  folds,  affording  a  rather  subdued  light.  If 
hung  on  rods,  they  may  be  pushed  back  to  let  in  all  the  morning  sun- 
liglit,  which  gives  so  much  brightness  to  the  breakfast  room  ;  at  noon 
they  can  be  arranged  to  keep  out  the  garish  light  of  noonday,  and  at 
night  let  fall,  to  shut  out  the  darkness  and  gloom  without. 

The  furniture  of  dining  rooms  is  almost  universally  made  of  daric 
wood  ;  the  only  exception  is  oak,  and  this  is  now  generally  darkened  to 
a  richer  tint  than  that  of  the  new  wood. 

The  woods  chiefly  used  are :  American  walnut,  dark  oak,  mahogany, 
and  stained  wood.  The  painting  of  the  wood-work  corresponds  in  tone 
with  that  of  the  furniture.  The  cornice  and  wainscot  are  also  dark, 
and  would  have  a  singularly  bad  effect  if  the  walls  were  very  light. 
The  great  object  is  to  avoid  all  violent  contrasts,  which  are  contrary  to 
good  taste,  and  to  choose  shades  that  blend  together  and  produce  a 
harmonious  whole. 

The  chairs  are  in  the  square,  solid  styles,  now  so  much  in  vogue, 
with  upholstering  in  embossed  and  gilded  leather,  or  in  the  plain  leather 
that  is  the  most  generally  liked.  Brass  or  silver  nails  are  used  profusely 
in  upholstering  leather  furniture,  and  add  to  the  solid  and  substan- 
tial appearance  of  the  articles.  Try  the  chairs  thoroughly  before  you 
purchase,  for  the  main  object  in  the  selection  of  dining  room  chairs 
biiould  always  be  solid  comfort 

Extension  tables  are  low  and  square-cornered,  and  are  heavily  carved. 
Buffets  are  very  large,  and  are  in  Queen  Anne  style,  with  quaint  little 
cupboards  for  the  display  of  decorated  china  and  silver. 

Sideboards  are  in  square,  massive  styles,  with  shelves  and  niches  for 


BED  ROOMS.  167 

china  and  different  kinds  of  ware.  The  butler's  tray  and  sideboard 
are  much  enlivened  by  heavy,  rich  colored  cloths  worked  in  colors,  and 
dropping  low  over  the  sides,  with  heavy  fringes,  showing  handsomely 
against  the  dark  woods. 

Over  the  fire-place  no  arrangement  will  be  found  more  picturesque 
than  the  narrow  high  shelf,  and  the  tiny  cupboards  and  racks  above  it, 
for  the  display  of  china  too  precious  or  too  long-descended  for  daily 
use ;  in  the  center  the  mantel  mirror  with  beveled  edges,  and  smaller 
bits  of  mirrors  behind  the  open  racks,  again  with  the  beveled  edges, 
whose  jewel-like  cut  adds  greatly  to  the  brilliancy.  On  these  open 
racks  may  stand  many  little  oddities,  hardly  appropriate  to  other  rooms, 
the  odd  mugs,  brass  or  china  candlesticks,  porcelain  pepper  boxes,  little 
old-fashioned  pitchers  and  decanters,  bits  of  coral,  shells,  jars,  and  all 
those  quaint  little  things  that  one  inherits  or  else  "  picks  up." 

It  has  been  the  custom  to  have  pictures  of  still  life  in  the  dining  room 
— of  game,  fish,  fruit.  But  this  is  hardly  a  cheerful  view,  to  see  repre- 
sentations of  the  fish  and  game — that  one  is  soon  to  eat — in  all  the 
agony  of  death.  This  room  seems  to  be  the  most  suitable  place  for 
family  portraits — those  of  the  last  generation.  Here  they  look  down 
from  their  frames,  welcoming  each  meal,  and  the  train  of  life  it  brings, 
and  exercise,  as  it  were,  a  mute  guardianship  over  thought  and  behav- 
ior. Here  also  may  be  placed  mottoes,  flower  pictures,  and  some  vari- 
eties of  landscapes. 

A  screen  is  also  quite  necessary  for  the  dining  room,  as  the  table  is 
often— nearly  always — placed  so  that  some  one  must  sit  near  the  fire. 
The  prettiest  for  this  purpose  is  a  three-leaf  folding  Japanese  screen ; 
or  a  less  expensive  one  may  be  made  in  many  of  the  ways  described. 
Colored  shades  on  the  lamps,  and  a  Japanese  scroll  on  each  side  of  the 
fire-place,  or  on  the  door,  give  life  and  color;  a  few  tall  growing  plants 
in  large  vases,  a  cheery  hearth  or  bright  stove,  plenty  of  sunshme  and 
good  cheer,  will  make  the  dining  room  the  cheeriest  in  the  house. 

BED-ROOMS. 

There  is  nothing  more  indicative  of  refinement  and  genuine  culture  in 
a  family  than  bright,  cheerful  and  tastefully  decorated  chambers. 
Tasteful  decorations  do  not  necessarily  mean  expense,  but  in  no  place 
are  the  taste  and  ingenuity  of  the  housekeeper  so  much  called  upon 
as  in  the  bed-room  furnishing,  and  its  many  accessories.  A  sleeping 
chamber  with  be-ruffled  pillow-cases  and  showy  furniture  speaks  poorly 
for  the  occupants,  unless  the  room  be  well  and  neatly  furnished,  with 
plenty  of  toilet  conveniences  and  articles  necessary  to  one's  comfort. 

Most  all  ladies  prefer  the  rug  and  oiled  floor  to  carpets.  If  the  floor 
hi  laid  in  Southern  pine,  it  should  be  oiled  once  or  twice  and  then 
rarnished  with  shellac,  its  appearance  being  much  improved  by  this 


168  HOUSE  FURNISHING, 

finish.  Bordered  center-carpets  or  rugs,  either  large  or  small,  square  or 
oblong,  may  be  arranged  in  such  positions  as  will  be  comfortable  to  the 
feet.  These  rugs  are  as  picturesque  and  fashionable  as  they  are  whole- 
some and  tidy.  Covers  for  the  floors  should  be  much  darker  than  the 
furniture  and  the  upholstery  goods,  and  yet  not  antagonistic  to  them  in 
their  hues  and  Mendings.  But  if  carpets  are  chosen,  in  preference  to 
rugs,  select  some  pretty  wood  or  flower  pattern,  in  light  shades,  for  this 
room  should  have  only  light  and  bright  colors.  Nothing  either  dark  or 
somber  is  in  place  here.  Blue  combined  with  pink  is  very  pretty ;  a 
scarlet  and  gray;  a  deep  red  and  very  light  blue;  olive  and  gold;  or 
light  blue  with  touches  of  dark  red,  and  green  and  gold  ;  all  these,  with 
their  many  attendant  colors,  are  especially  pretty  for  bed-rooms.  Two 
colors  suitably  carried  out  in  carpets  and  wall-paper  are  more  desirable 
than  several. 

Dark  furniture  can  be  used  with  nearly  all  of  the  colors  mentioned^ 
but  for  a  pink  or  blue  room,  the  lighter  shades  are  prettiest. 

Cretonne,  in  rose  and  gray,  or  in  pale  blue  and  rose,  and  chintzes  of 
various  combined  but  harmonious  colors,  are  chosen  for  light  woods, 
and  if  there  be  a  wicker  lounge  in  the  apartment,  square  pillows  of  cre- 
tonne or  other  decorative  fabric  should  invite  one  to  pleasant  repose. 
With  the  light  woods,  especially  for  cottage  or  summer  rooms.  Canton  . 
matting  is  often  used,  either  in  plain  colors  or  in  block  patterns  of  red 
and  white,  blue  and  white,  or  green  and  white,  or  in  small  figured 
designs  in  green,  black  and  brown  on  the  cream-colored  or  natural 
groundwork. 

The  bed  was  once  spotlessly  white,  but  with  the  fashionable  taste  for 
color  comes  a  change  in  bed  coverings.  Antique  lace,  Nottingham 
lace,  darned  net,  linen  applique,  figured  muslins  and  Swiss  muslin 
draperies  are  used  over  silk  or  silesia,  and  equally  popular  ones  are 
shown  in  chintzes,  printed  dimities  and  French  cambrics.  The  bed- 
covers are  often  of  cretonne  also,  but  oftener  of  coarse  white  linen,  with 
the  edges  embroidered  in  soft  porcelain  colors  in  Holbein  stitch  or  in 
South  Kensington  ornamentation.  Watteau  colors  that  correspond 
with  the  chintzes  are  always  in  good  taste  and  are  used  for  curtains, 
bed-room  screens,  chair  and  divan  covers,  and  also  for  tidies  or  table 
spreads. 

Swiss  curtains,  cretonne,  chintz,  bunting,  cheese-cloth  and  many 
other  light  colored  or  sheer  fabrics  are  used  for  curtains,  and  are  dainty 
and  light  draperies.  Antique  lace  or  pleatings  of  the  same  is  used  to 
trim  those  of  thin  fabric,  and  the  cretonnes  are  trimmed  with  fringes  or 
they  may  be  made  plain.  They  are  suspended  on  poles  from  the  ceiling, 
draped  back  with  ribbons  and  with  shades  underneath  that  can  be 
rolled  to  top  of  the  window  during  the  day,  and  let  ('own  at  night. 

One  or  two  oblong  boxes  are  convenient,  covered  with  cretonne,  and 


BED  ROOMS.  169 

should  have  lids  attached  to  them  by  hinges.  These  should  be  cush- 
ioned with  fine  excelsior,  overlaid  with  cotton  batting.  These  boxes 
may  have  castors  added  to  them,  and  will  serve  as  receptacles  for  shoes, 
parcels  or  bed-linen,  while  at  the  same  time  they  are  both  comfortable 
and  ornamental  seats.  Placed  near  the  windows,  they  are  fashionable 
and  attractive. 

For  this  room  there  should  be  a  low  couch  to  drop  down  upon  dur- 
ing the  day,  without  disturbing  the  bed,  a  large  rocker,  a  small  sewing 
chair,  a  work  basket,  footstools,  a  toilette  table  prettily  draped  with 
curtains,  or  a  dressing-case,  brackets  for  vases,  pots  for  flowers,  vines 
or  pictures,  or  other  ornaments,  hanging  shelves  for  books  and  small 
articles  of  value,  and  a  table  to  hold  the  student  lamp,  papers,  and  also 
to  write  upon. 

The  washstand  should  have  a  large  embroidered  towel,  with  colored 
fringe  hanging  low  at  the  sides,  covering  up  thje  marble,  and  deadening 
the  noise  when  articles  are  set  down  upon  it.  One  to  match  should  be 
put  on  the  wall,  for  a  wall  protector,  and  fastened  with  brass  rings  and 
nails,  or,  instead,  a  strip  of  linen  with  embroidered  edge  run  upon  a  pole 
at  the  back,  in  the  same  way  the  curtains  are  put  up. 

If  there  be  no  mantels  in  the  room,  a  shelf  and  bracket,  arranged  with 
mantel  draperies,  may  be  added  to  the  chamber  at  a  cost  which  is  but 
trifling  when  its  uses  and  attractions  are  considered. 

If  there  is  no  dressing-room,  a  screen  is  a  very  desirable  part  of  the 
bed-room  furniture,  of  sufficient  height  and  number  of  valves  to  com- 
pletely inclose  the  person  behind  it.  This  screen  may  be  made  up  at 
home,  with  the  help  of  a  carpenter,  in  a  simple  frame  like  that  of  a  com- 
mon clothes-horse,  although  with  exceedingly  slender  sticks  and  long 
and  narrow  leaves,  and  with  stout  cotton  or  silk  stretched  over  it;  on 
this  base  all  sorts  of  pictures  and  bits  of  color  are  to  be  carefully 
arranged  with  gum-arabic,  the  interstices  painted  in  with  bright  flowers 
and  butterflies  and  birds'  wings,  the  whole  afterward  sized  over  and 
varnished  in  a  suitable  tone. 

If  a  rug  is  placed  in  front  of  the  bed  and  dressing-case,  it  will  save 
the  carpet  and  give  a  look  of  warmth  and  comfort.  A  rug  of  tiger, 
bear,  or  fox  skins  is  a  charming  acquisition  to  this  room,  and  adds  an 
Oriental  effect.  Pictures  of  one's  dearest  friends  seem  to  find  a  suit- 
able resting  place  here.  Knickknacks,  oddities,  wall-pockets,  and  in 
fact  all  the  many  liitle  things  that  do  not  seem  to  find  a  place  else- 
where, can  always  find  a  niche  in  the  bed-room — the  place  of  retirement 
and  rest  after  the  toils  of  the  day. 


170  HOUSE  FURNISHING, 


HOME-MADE  FURNITURE. 

There  are  many  large  houses  that  have  empty  roorhs,  ofttimes  the 
pleasantest  room  in  the  house,  that  can  be  made  to  look  very  pretty  at 
small  expense,  and  not  take  much  time  either.  The  necessary  materials 
and  tools  are  a  saw,  hammer,  tacks,  gimp,  cretonne,  or  chintz,  barrels, 
boxes,  boards  and  paint. 

If  the  furniture  be  old,  one  may  hide  its  shabbiness  under  covers 
of  handsome  stuffs  in  dark,  rich  colors  and  quaint  figures  like  the 
ordinary  broche  shawls,  or  with  reps,  or  chintz,  or  even  unbleached 
muslin  trimmed  with  bands  or  flutings  of  plain  Turkey-red. 

All  covers  should  be  made  to  wash,  and  come  off  easily ;  therefore 
tacks  should  be  religiously  avoided ;  the  cushion,  which  must  be  made 
separately,  ought  to  come  over  the  edge  of  the  box  a  little,  and  be 
firmly  tied  on  with  tape ;  the  covers,  if  you  can  contrive  to  make  theni 
fit  properly,  require  no  fastening.  Not  only  may  empty  boxes  be  util- 
ized, but  dressing-tables  too  shabby  for  respectability,  too  old-fashioned 
for  pleasant  contemplation,  can,  by  the  judicious  use  of  colored  roll 
muslin,  and  old  lace  or  window-curtams,  or  worn-out  grenadine  evening 
dresses,  be  transformed  into  tasteful,  graceful  toilette  tables. 

Old  Chairs  a7id  Couches  can  be  transformed  in  the  same  way.  See 
how  they  are  constructed  while  taking  them  apart,  and  then  put  them 
together  in  the  same  way.  The  lounge  we  can  easily  manage  without 
calling  in  the  upholsterer.  The  old  cover  can  be  taken  off,  smoothed 
out,  and  used  as  a  pattern  for  the  new.  New  springs  can  be  easily 
inserted  in  place  of  the  old,  and  "excelsior"  corn  husks,  curled  hair, 
or  any  accessible  material  used  to  give  softness  and  soundness  to  the 
cushions.  Then  cut  a  cover  of  strong,  unbleached  muslin  and  put  it 
on.  Afterward  the  material  chosen  for  the  covering  can  be  nicely 
adjusted.  It  may  be  tacked  along  the  front  with  brass-headed  nails, 
or  the  hne  of  attachment  may  be  concealed  by  a  strip  of  braid,  or 
fringe,  or  gimp.  If  you  want  to  tuft  it,  you  will  require  an  upholsterer's 
needle.  It  is  over  a  foot  long  and  curved.  Thread  in  strong  linen 
twine  and  pass  the  needle  through  from  the  bottom — if  it  is  the  seat 
which  is  being  treated — slip  on  a  button,  or  adjust  a  tuft  and  pass  the 
needle  down.  If  the  stuffing  material  be  soft  and  flexible,  draw  the 
thread  tight,  and  a  deep  indentation  will  be  the  result.  If  you  have 
a  little  ingenuity  and  faculty  you  will  find  your  lounge  quite  as  good 
and  handsome  as  new,  and  will  have  done  in  a  few  hours  what  the 
upholsterer  would  charge  several  dollars  for. 

If  the  floor  is  bare,  and  a  carpet  cannot  be  afforded,  It  can  be  painted, 
even  by  an  amateur,  in  pretty  blocks,  one  dark,  one  light,  alternately ; 
then,  if  rugs  are  scattered  around  the  floor,  it  will  not  have  the  cold 
look  that  bare  floors  usually  do  have.     For  the  rooms  of  this  sort,  cur- 


HOME-MADE  FURNITURE.  171 

tarns  should  be  used  that  fall  from  the  ceiling^  to  the  floor,  draped  back 
from  the  center ;  this  gives  hight  and  breadth  to  the  room,  and  a  grace- 
ful appearance  generally. 

A  Single  or  Double  Bed  may  be  made  by  having  the  sides  and  ends 
of  a  box  six  inches  deep,  with  slats  put  across  for  the  springs,  which 
are  made  of  copper  and  fastened  together  by  a  hook  of  copper  wire 
that  makes  the  top  flat  and  of  even  surface.  Wooden  legs  may  be  put 
on  the  box,  with  castors.  There  is  no  foot  or  head  board  to  these 
simple  cots,  only  the  large  square  pillows  at  the  head.  The  box  may 
be  covered  with  cretonne  or  chintz,  or  painted,  and  with  the  spread 
falling  over  it  all  around,  the  bedstead  is  effectually  hidden.  Beds  of 
this  style  are  often  used  in  England,  in  country  houses,  though,  of 
course,  made  of  more  expensive  material.  The  spread  and  pillow 
covers  should  be  of  chintz,  though  if  white  enters  into  the  furnish- 
ing of  the  room,  the  bed  may  be  entirely  white.  A  valance  should  be 
put  around  this  low  bed,  falling  to  the  floor.  Husk  beds  are  often  used 
on  these  instead  of  mattresses. 

A  Low  Divan  Couch  is  contrived  in  precisely  the  same  way,  with  the 
exception  that  the  large  square  pillows  are  placed  at  the  b^ck.  Hemp 
or  jute  fringe  is  an  addition  to  a  cretonne  covering,  with  the  cloth  in 
two  puffs  on  the  box,  with  gimp  between  to  cover  the  tacks,  and  the 
fringe  below  the  puffs ;  in  this  case  a  puff  is  set  in  the  sides  of  the  pil- 
low. The  lounges  are  often  made  by  having  the  deep  box  (no  legs), 
with  the  castors  on  the  bottom  of  the  box,  then  a  mattress  and  a  chintz 
cover  with  deep  flounce,  that  can  be  drawn  over  to  the  floor  and  taken 
off  every  night,  making  the  divan  serve  the  purpose  of  a  bed  at  night. 
The  pillow  covers  can  be  buttoned  on  during  the  day  and  taken  off  at 
night.  The  copper  springs  can  be  bought  by  the  pound,  and  are  ver)' 
nice  for  this  purpose,  as  they  are  high  and  fill  the  box  to  the  top. 
Sometimes  these  bed  lounges  are  put  on  quite  high  legs,  giving  room 
for  a  box  on  castors  that  may  be  rolled  underneath  and  the  bedding 
kept  in  it  during  the  day  time.  They  serve  every  purpose,  making 
a  comfortable  bed  at  night,  and  a  pretty,  low,  inviting-looking  divan 
during  the  day.  Jute  cloth  makes  a  v^ery  pretty  cover,  with  the  jute 
fringe,  but  is  a  little  more  expensive  than  cretonne,  though  if  the  double 
width  is  bought  (used  for  curtains  \  with  border  and  fringe,  it  comes  as 
cheap  as  cretonne,  for  the  extra  length  that  must  be  bought  in  order  to 
get  the  border  and  fringe,  can  be  used  for  the  pillows.  The  pillows  can 
be  made  of  husks,  soft  cotton,  feathers  or  hair — should  be  feathers,  of 
course,  if  used  to  sleep  on.  A  good  size  is  three  feet  wide,  six  feet  long, 
and  box  eight  inches  deep.  The  legs  should  be  eight  inches  long 
including  castors.  The  apparent  width  of  the  couch  is  decreased  by 
the  large  pillows  at  the  back  that  make  it  look  narrower. 

Window   Seats  are   much   smaller,   of  dry   goods  boxes,   and  are 


172  HOUSE  FURNISHING. 

placed  underneath  the  windows.  Make  them  just  the  length  of  the 
window,  the  top  stuffed  with  moss,  curled  shavings,  excelsior,  hair  or 
cotton,  covered  with  chintz,  and  tied  down  in  diamond  patterns  with 
covered  buttons.  A  ruffle  is  nailed  around  the  top  with  strong  handles 
to  lift  the  cover.  They  may  then  be  used  for  packing  boxes  for  nice 
dresses  or  clothes.  The  windows  should  be  curtained  with  the  chintz, 
draped  back  over  the  ends  of  the  window  seats,  bracket  or  shelf.  Shelf 
lambrequins  can  be  made  to  match  these  covers. 

Starch  boxes,  tobacco  drums,  small  four-legged  stools,  made  and 
covered  the  same  way,  are  a  great  addition  to  the  room  in  filling  up 
vacant  places  or  corners.  The  tops  may  be  trimmed  with  cord  and 
tassels,  or  pleatings. 

Any  Old  Table  may  be  utilized  by  the  addition  of  a  pretty  cover.  If 
a  long  table  (even  an  old  kitchen  table  will  do),  paint  the  legs  black,  as 
all  the  furniture  of  the  room  should  be  wherever  the  wood  shows,  and 
if  the  paint  is  varnished  it  is  a  very  good  substitute  for  ebonized  wood. 
Make  a  long  cover,  with  the  ends  hanging  nearly  to  the  floor,  with  a 
fringe  or  pleating  of  the  same.  If  a  round  table,  make  a  square  cover  of 
chintz  or  cretonne,  and  around  the  edge  put  a  wide  stripe  of  the  same 
and  frmge,  if  it  can  be  afforded,  or  cut  a  cover  the  size  of  the  table  and 
tack  it  over  the  top,  using  gimp  and  brass-headed  nails  on  the  edge. 
Leather  is  also  pretty.  If  fringe  is  added  to  the  edge  of  the  round  table 
it  is  quite  an  improvement. 

Very  Nice  Otto7nans  can  be  made  out  of  those  old-fashioned  bed- 
steads which  were  used  ever  and  ever  so  long  ago.  Take  the  head  and 
foot-boards  and  cut  four  pieces,  lambrequin  shape — that  is,  long  on  the 
ends  and  short  in  the  center — about  two  feet  long  and  one  foot  high ; 
fasten  these  together,  place  a  top  down  in  about  two  inches,  make 
a  cushion  with  a  fancy  top  that  will  fit  snugly  in  the  top,  or  fasten 
in  springs  and  strap  them  over,  and  then  place  on  the  fancy  top  and 
fasten  down  securely.  The  legs  will  make  another  of  a  different  style. 
Cut  them  the  right  height,  fasten  together  at  the  top  with  narrow  pieces 
of  boards,  and  put  the  top  in  the  same  as  the  other.  Of  course  the 
wood  in  these  will  have  to  be  oiled,  as  lymg  in  the  garret  a  hundred 
years,  more  or  less,  rather  takes  the  "  shine  "  off  of  them. 

A  Packing-case  covered  with  chintz,  and  put  in  a  convenient  p'ace 
for  a  seat,  will  hold  a  dress-skirt  at  full  length.  Smaller  boxes  of  this 
kind  are  very  useful  as  window  seats  and  will  hold  hats,  jackets,  work, 
etc.  But  now,  l\ow  to  make  one.  Find  a  box  of  the  shape  and  size  you 
wish,  and  see  that  there  are  no  nails  sticking  out ;  if  so,  hammer  them 
in  or  pull  them  out.  Line  the  inside  of  the  box,  top,  bottom  and  sides, 
with  common  white  or  gray  glazed  calico,  using  brass-headed  nails  or 
tin  tacks,  at  long  intervals,  to  fasten  the  calico  on  with.  Then  take  a 
piece  of  the  coarsest  calico  or  canvas,  double  it  and  measure  it  with  the 


HOME-MADE  FURNITURE.  173 

top  of  the  box;  let  it  be  nearly  half  a  yard  wider  all  round.  Make  it 
into  a  bag,  leav^e  the  end  open  and  stuff  it  rather  tighUy  with  horse-hair, 
feathers,  or  even  old  newspapers  torn  into  the  tiniest  fragments.  Now 
thread  a  packing-kneedle  with  very  strong  string  and  pass  it  once  or 
twice  straight  through  this  cushion  ;  pull  it  tight  and  knot  it  firmly. 
Do  the  same  at  equal  distances  of  six  or  eight  inches  all  over  the  cush- 
ion, which  will  then,  if  nicely  done,  look  as  though  padded  by  anything 
but  an  amateur  hand ;  nail  the  cushion  firmly  to  the  top  of  the  box,  and 
so  far  your  work  is  done. 

Now  as  to  the  covenng  of  the  box  :  This  must  depend  a  great  deal 
on  the  furniture  of  the  room,  of  course;  rep,  moreen  or  damask  wear 
best,  but  cretonne  or  chintz  is  as  cheap  as  anything,  infinitely  prettier 
and  more  clean,  for  it  washes  well.  Take  the  piece  of  whatever 
material  it  may  be  that  you  intend  for  the  top,  and  wherever  there  is  a 
knot  in  the  canvas  below,  sew  a  flat  button  of  any  kind  to  it.  When 
this  is  done  the  covering  must  be  nailed  on  all  round,  with  a  broad  fur- 
niture gimp,  or  fringe  and  brass-headed  nails.  The  sides  are  to  be  cov- 
ered with  the  same  material,  and  can  either  be  padded  or  the  stuff  put 
on  plain.  If  this  is  chintz,  it  must  have  a  calico  lining,  or  probably  the 
wood  of  the  box  will  show  through ;  fasten  this  on  with  the  same 
arrangement  of  gimp  and  brass  nails  as  you  did  with  the  top.  A  really 
handsome  box  might  thus  be  made  for  a  drawing-room  by  covering  the 
sides  and  top  with  different  pieces  of  Berlin  work,  and  it  would  be  most 
useful  to  hold  music,  port-folios,  etc.  For  such  use,  the  inside  lining 
would  look  best  of  chintz,  instead  of  calico.  These  box-ottomans 
always  remind  one  of  those  pretty  box  pin-cushions,  in  which  form  so 
many  old  cigar-boxes  come  into  use  for  dressing-tables. 

A  Barrel  Chair  is  made  by  sawing  one-third  of  the  way  around 
a  common  flour  barrel,  and  within  one  and  a  half  feet  of  the  bottom. 
Then  saw  the  remaining  staves  in  a  curve,  gradually  ascending  so  as  to 
form  the  back  and  arms  of  the  chair.  Have  the  wires  on  which  the 
cushion  is  to  be  placed  stretched  across  the  chair  in  different  directions, 
within  one  foot  of  the  bottom  of  the  chair.  This  will  also  aid  in  more 
firmly  securing  the  staves.  Cord  may  be  used  instead  of  the  wire,  if 
preferred.  Rockers  may  be  added,  making  a  very  comfortable  rocking- 
chair.  Cover  all  with  cloth  and  make  a  cushion  of  the  same.  Around 
the  edges  tack  dress  braid  (this  may  be  used  for  all  these  articles 
instead  of  the  gimp),  or  gimp  with  brass  or  white-headed  tacks,  or  the 
tiny  black  tacks  used  by  upholsterers.  Kitchen  chairs,  old-fashioned 
ones,  that  have  been  banished  to  the  garret,  camp  chairs,  rocking 
chairs — all  may  be  covered  and  their  oldness  disguised  under  fresh, 
bright  coverings  and  paint.  Coffee  bagging,  burlaps  and  hemp  cloth, 
may  be  worked  in  bright  zephyrs,  and  thus  old  chairs  be  covered  and 
transformed  into  a  thing  of  comfort  if  not  beauty.     Striped  cretonne. 


174  HOUSE  FURNISHING. 

put  down  the  back  of  the  chairs,  on  a  plain  background,  is  very  pretty ; 
narrow  stripes  may  be  feather-stitched  on,  or  the  back  and  seat  may  be 
woven  of  dress  braid  or  other  stripes.  If  the  chair  is  covered  with 
worked  burlaps,  several  may  be  covered  in  this  way,  with  differ- 
ent designs,  only  carrying  out  the  same  idea  and  color  in  all  the  fur- 
niture. 

A  Pretty  Dressiitg  Table  has  shelves  underneath,  a  board  for  the 
back  at  the  top,  and  brackets  to  support  the  mirror,  with  curtains  of 
chintz  or  muslin,  and  table  covered  with  the  same.  An  old-fashioned 
bureau  is  modernized  by  putting  on  the  top  a  long  cover,  falling  far 
down  the  ends;  this,  made  of  Turkish  toweling,  edged  with  linen 
fringe,  embroidered  or  worked  in  colors,  and  the  same  tied  in  the  linen 
fringe,  changes  its  looks  wonderfully. 

A  Loiv  Toilette  Chair  can  be  made  of  a  round  wooden  box,  covered 
and  padded,  the  back  made  by  nailing  two  broomsticks  up  the  back  for 
sides,  and  one  across  the  top,  painting  them  and  making  a  net-work  of 
cloihes-line  braid  or  picture  cord. 

A  Wood  Box  is  constructed  of  a  painted  vinegar  keg,  the  hoops 
painted  a  contrasting  color,  or  a  pretty  stripe  of  gay  wall-paper  pasted 
on  the  hoops  and  at  the  top  and  bottom,  then  the  whole  varnished. 

A  Hangifig  Book-shelf  may  be  made  of  three  shelves  of  walnut  or 
wood  painted  black  and  hung  with  picture  cord  and  tassels,  one  above 
the  other.  A  corner  bracket  may  be  made  with  one  shelf  only,  sus- 
pended from  the  ceiling  by  cords  and  tassels.  A  long  bracket  to  hang 
against  the  wall,  with  one  tiny  shelf  near  the  bottom,  is  very  pretty  for 
tiny  vases  or  a  statuette  or  bust. 

A  Small  ''Hour  Glass"  table  is  made  by  cutting  out  two  round 
pieces  of  wood,  nailing  a  stick  between,  and  covering  by  chintz,  drawn 
in  around  the  center  by  a  band  of  the  same  or  ribbon.  This  may  be 
cut  with  an  eight-cornered  top  and  a  pocket  be  put  between  each  cor- 
ner for  work  or  scraps.  These  pockets  are  made  by  taking  a  straight 
piece,  dividing  it  into  sections,  allowing  room  for  a  box  pleat  at  the  top 
of  each  pocket ;  take  another  piece  of  the  same  length,  sew  it  with  the 
back  in  a  seam  and  fasten  it  at  each  end  of  the  pocket  or  back  piece, 
letting  the  front  piece  fall  forward,  thus  forming  the  pocket.  Tack  this 
piece  straight  around  the  hour  glass  top  after  all  is  covered. 

If  there  is  no  closet  for  the  clothes  hamper,  a  convenient  and  pretty 
soiled  linen  receptacle  is  contrived  in  this  way:  Take  an  ordinary 
flour  barrel,  line  with  paper  muslin,  and  on  the  outside  cover  it  with 
cretonne,  laid  in  box  plaits.  Around  the  top  finish  with  a  lambrequin 
made  of  turkey  red.  with  cretonne  flowers  transferred  on  the  center  of 
each  point.  Cover  the  lid  with  cretonne  inside  and  out,  and  put  a  full 
plaiting  of  the  same  around  the  edge.  For  the  handle  on  top  use  an 
iron  trunk  handle.     By  leaving  the  handle  off  the  top  and  having  the  lid 


home-made  furniture.  175 

made  larg-e  enough  to  fit  over  instead  of  the  ordinary  way,  the  barrel 
can  stand  in  a  room  and  be  used  for  a  table. 

Or  it  may  be  used  for  wood,  kindlings,  or  to  hold  the  coal  hod  and 
the  rest  of  the  homely  appurtenances  of  the  stove. 

A  Wardrobe  for  bed-room,  camping  out,  or  for  summer  cottage  use 
is  thus  designed  :  Take  a  pine  board  six  feet  long,  six  inches  wide, 
and  thick  enough  to  allow  iron  or  brass  pegs  to  be  firmly  screwed  in. 
Off  each  end  of  the  board  saw  seventeen  inches,  and  attach  them  again 
at  the  same  place  to  the  longer  porion  of  the  board  by  hinges.  This 
looks  like  a  rough  book-slide.  Cover  the  board  by  pasting  chintz  over 
it.  Then  screw  in  a  row  of  pegs  or  hooks.  Place  this  sort  of  book- 
slide  against  the  wail,  and  judge  the  best  place  to  screw  two  very 
strong  rings  into  the  top  edge  or  thickness  of  the  central  three  feet  long 
board  to  hang  the  wardrobe  by.  There  are  thus  formed  three  sides  of 
a  square,  but  the  fourth  side  of  the  square,  namely,  the  front  of  the 
wardrobe,  is  open.  Across  it  fasten  two  rods  of  wood,  iron  or  brass, 
each  of  course  three  feet  long,  with  holes  at  each  end.  These  holes 
slip  on  to  small  hooks  fastened  into  the  ends  of  the  shorter  boards 
furthest  from  the  hinges.  The  best  place  to  fix  these  hooks  will  be 
obvious  to  the  workman.  The  rods  are  to  support  the  curtains,  and 
should  be  placed  parallel,  but  one  a  little  behind  the  other,  to  enable 
the  curtains  to  overlap  freely.  Into  the  wall,  about  six  feet  from  the 
floor,  drive  two  very  strong  nails,  and  hang  the  wardrobe  upon  them 
by  the  two  rings.  Take  chintz,  cretonne,  or  any  other  material.  Of  this 
make  a  three-'^ided  plain  bag,  one  side  (for  the  back  of  the  wardrobe), 
three  feet  wide  and  six  feet  long,  to  reach  the  floor,  the  other  sides  each 
seventeen  or  eighteen  inches  wide,  and  six  feet  long  (for  the  sides  of  the 
wardrobe).  For  the  front  have  curtains,  each  six  feet  long,  but  wide, 
according  to  taste.  These  have  rings  at  the  top  and  run  on  the  rods. 
For  the  top  of  the  wardrobe  take  chintz,  etc.,  three  feet  long  and  eigh- 
teen inches  wide,  with  a  deep  frill  round  the  edge  for  a  finish,  except  at 
the  back,  which  touches  the  wall.  Fasten  the  back  and  side  pieces  of 
chintz  to  this  (the  other  end  of  the  chintz  touches  the  floor).  The  front 
curtains  of  course  are  not  attached  to  this  top,  as  they  have  to  draw. 
Slip  it  over  the  wooden  thing,  making  two  holes  at  the  back,  where  the 
top  and  chintz  back  join,  for  the  rings  to  slip  through  to  hang  on  the 
nails  on  the  wall,  and  your  wardrobe  is  complete.  For  packing,  take 
off  the  chintz  cover  and  rods,  take  out  the  pegs  and  hooks,  fold  the 
wooden  sides  flat  on  the  back,  fold  the  chintz  and  wrap  all  up.  A 
slight  board  for  the  top,  covered  with  chintz,  adds  much  to  the  appear- 
ance of  the  wardrobe. 


1 76  HO  USE  FURNISHING. 


FIREPLACES  AND  GRATES. 

The  fireplace  ought  to  be  made  the  household  altar,  for  here  is 
where  the  family  love  to  linger,  around  the  social  hearthstone.  The 
fireplace  should  be  the  tirsi  object  that  the  eye  catches  when  one  enters 
the  room,  and  the  one  whereon  it  lingers  longest.  Nothing  can  be 
better  than  the  arrangement,  which  constantly  grows  in  favor,  of  con- 
tinuing the  lines  of  the  chimney-piece  into  low,  broad  shelves  above  it, 
lined  with  looking-glass,  if  one  pleases,  and  made  the  open  cabinet  for 
the  prettiest  trifles  one  possesses.  If  this  is  forbidden  on  account  of 
expense,  then  the  finest  picture  the  house  affords  should  hang  there  as 
a  sacred  altarpiece,  and  on  the  mantel  should  be  grouped  the  most 
effective  of  the  bric-a-bac. 

In  this  grouping  the  tallest  objects  should  be  nearest  the  center,  that 
the  composition  may  be  pyramidal  in  effeci,  though,  on  the  other  hand, 
care  must  be  taken  that  the  ascent  from  end  to  center  is  not  regular 
like  a  night  of  stairs,  but  broken,  by  placing  different  forms,  and  not 
similar  ones,  next  each  olher.  There  may  be  placed  a  deep  porcelain 
vase,  a  burnished  candlestick,  a  high  jar  or  pitcher,  a  china  or  metal 
plaque,  a  Japanese  bowl,  and  a  group  of  marble  or  a  clock  may  stand 
in  the  center.  At  the  side  may  hang  plaques,  photographs  darkly 
framed,  or  pictures  in  deep  velvet  frames.  Bronzes  and  porcelains  • 
should  not  be  arranged  in  the  same  group,  nor  china  and  marble  be 
placed  too  near  together. 

Everything  around  the  grate  should  be  kept  free  from  dust,  the 
brasses  highly  polished,  the  hearth  well  swept  up,  and  the  fire  at  its 
brightest  and  cheeriest,  for  nothing  is  more  dismal  than  a  cold,  cheer- 
less grate. 

For  Hiding  the  Grate  for  swmner,  nothing  is  more  effective  than 
plants  and  ferns.  A  huge  jar,  or  old-fashioned  pitcher,  filled  with 
grasses,  ferns,  cat-tails,  and  the  wonderfully  pretty  things  that  can  be 
found  in  the  woods,  gives  a  cheerful  and  homelike  look  to  a  room.  The 
hearth  can  be  filled  with  mosses  ;  a  piece  of  looking-glass  used  for  a 
miniature  lake,  with  sea  shells,  and  a  rustic  gypsy  pot  filled  with  vines, 
traihng  over  its  edge. 

The  prettiest  fancy  for  filling  up  the  empty  grate  for  an  evening  affair, 
is  to  fill  it  in  with  growing  plants,  put  into  the  natural  grate,  and  not 
placed  upon  the  hearth,  where  they  imperil  their  own  safety  as  well  as 
the  petticoats  of  the  dancers.  A  fern,  or  palm  or  two  for  the  back- 
ground, and  hydrangeas  or  other  bright-hued  blossoms  in  front,  have  a 
good  effect,  filling  in  the  interstices  with  moss.  If  flowers  be  not  avail- 
able, soft  white  cotton  pulled  lightly  apart,  may  fill  the  fireplace.  This 
powdered  with  glass  or  alum,  with  green  sprays  at  intervals,  makes  a 
brilliant  showing. 


FIREPLACES  AND  GRATES,  177 

For  countr)^  houses  a  board  made  to  fit  the  fireplace  is  the  convenient 
arrangement.  This  is  covered  with  pale  pink  or  blue  farmer's  satin. 
A  large  w^reath  of  flowers  and  evergreens,  or  an  immense  horseshoe  of 
blossoms,  fills  the  center,  and  from  this  depend  delicate  sprays  of  ivy 
or  smilax.  If  the  fireplace  be  one  of  the  high,  old-fashioned  ones, 
matters  are  improved  by  a  curtain  on  either  side  to  match  the  screen, 
looped  back  with  sprays  of  flowers.  The  shelf  above  should  have  a 
flounce  of  the  same  material  edged  with  lace  or  quilling,  and  looped  up 
at  intervals  by  clusters  of  flowers,  from  which  droop  festoons  of  green. 
When  the  furniture  is  removed  from  a  room  for  dancing,  or  a  large 
reception,  any  feeling  of  bareness  is  taken  away  from  the  room  by  hav- 
ing the  chimney-piece  handsomely  "  dressed,"  as  our  English  cousins 
call  it. 

One  of  the  prettiest  and  most  effective  means  of  hiding  the  grate 
dur.ng  the  summer,  and  one  especially  adapted  to  rooms  where  the 
Japanese-fan-umbrella-parasol  craze  is  encouraged,  is  to  place  a  brilliant 
parasol  opened  wide  in  front  of  it.  It  allows  a  free  current  of  air  from 
the  chimney,  so  desirable  for  the  proper  ventilation  of  the  room,  and  its 
bright  and  harmoniously  mingled  hues  give  a  touch  of  color  to  the 
room  where  it  is  most  needed. 

The  small  Japanese  parasols,  such  as  are  sold  for  five  cents  apiece, 
have  been  also  used  for  this  purpose.  The  fireboard  is  first  covered 
with  black  glazed  paper,  and  the  parasols,  widely  opened,  are  fastened 
upon  it,  arranged  in  the  shape  of  a  diamond,  star  or  square.  The 
handles  are  cut  off  when  opened  wide,  just  enough  being  left  to  go  into 
a  hole  in  the  fireboard.  Paper  fans  are  also  effective  arranged  on  a 
dark  fireboard,  the  handles  pointing  to  a  common  center,  the  circle 
being  either  an  entire  one,  or  else  a  half-moon.  The  "  over  doors " 
should  be  filled  in  with  fans  or  parasols  in  the  same  style  ;  and,  with  a 
-dainty  Canton  matting  on  the  floor,  you  will  have  made  a  very  pretty 
beginning  for  an  oriental  room. 

In  addition  to  this,  there  are  very  pretty  patterns  that  come  in  imita- 
tion of  Japanese  silk,  which  are  very  rich  and  beautiful,  the  effect  being 
the  same  as  that  of  painting.  These  are  put  together  with  bands  of 
velvet  and  fastened  in  the  fireplace. 

The  long-handled  Japanese  fan,  or  the  fan-shaped  one,  can  be 
arranged  on  a  background  in  some  pretty  pattern,  like  a  wheel  or  cres- 
cent. The  deep  plush  paper  that  comes  with  wall  paper  for  decora- 
tion makes  a  rich  and  beautiful  screen  for  a  fire-place  ;  it  looks  the 
same  as  velvet,  and  is  bought  by  the  yard.  This,  with  a  wide  border  of 
paper,  the  same  that  is  used  for  dados  or  friezes  on  the  walls,  is  beau- 
tiful indeed, 

12 


178  HOUSE  FURNISHING. 


DRAPERIES  AND  VALANCES. 

If  heavy  window  curtains  or  portieres  are  unattainable,  drapery  effects 
are  still  possible.  An  embroidered  curtain  may  run  on  a  few  feet  of 
gilded  gas-pipe  in  front  of  a  low  book-case.  A  bit  of  rich  material,  an 
old  crape  shawl,  for  instance,  may  be  flung  on  an  easel.  An  old  scrap 
of  Oriental  embroidery,  with  its  gleam  of  dull  gold,  may  catch  on  the 
corner  of  the  piano  or  a  tall  carved  chair  back.  A  Roman  scarf  may 
be  forgotten  on  the  shelf  in  some  dark  corner,  or  be  tossed  in  haste  on 
an  ebony  cabinet.  A  painted  or  embroidered  silken  curtain  may  hang 
beneath  a  bracket. 

In  all  these  hanging  masses  a  stiff  material  is  to  be  avoided.  Noth- 
ing serves  better  than  the  new  wool  draperies,  which  come  very  wide 
and  in  all  the  soft  rich  shades.  By  laying  broad  bands  of  contrasting 
but  carefully  chosen  hues  upon  the  body  color  and  feather-stitching 
them  on  with  large  stitches  of  old  gold  or  dull  red,  these  draperies  may 
be  made  to  blend  the  discords  of  the  most  ill  conceived  rooms. 

Where  the  wall-paper  is  elaborate  in  pattern  with  a  dark  background, 
little  curtains  of  a  dark  rich  shade  may  be  hung  against  the  wall  for  a 
plaque  or  vase  to  rest  against.  These  may  be  of  a  deep  maroon, 
twenty-four  inches  one  way,  by  eighteen  the  other.  If  this  is  divided 
diagonally  from  the  upper  right-hand  corner  to  the  lower  left-hand  one, 
the  upper  section  being  of  self  colored  striped  material,  plush  and  silk, 
and  the  lower  half  of  plain  plush  or  silk,  the  effect  is  very  good.  This 
little  curtain  is  held  by  brass  nails  at  the  comers,  and  runs  on  a  rod  or 
ribbon.  Or  a  loosely  held  mass  of  dark  olive  or  plum-colored  satin  may 
be  placed  against  the  wall,  and  a  light-colored  pitcher  hung  on  it,  with 
a  pretty  knot  of  the  same  material  passed  through  the  handle  and  over 
a  large  nail. 

Very  effective  Chimney  Board  Valances  and  curtain  borders  are  made 
in  appliques — a  work  which  requires  nice  taste,  but  no  great  technical 
skill.  The  colors  should  accord  with  those  in  which  the  room  is  uphol- 
stered. The  material  is  plush,  and  the  appliques  are  satin  in  the  hand- 
somest designs,  but  Canton  flannel,  with  appliques  and  flannel  are 
very  pretty.  The  appliques  are  sewed  down  upon  the  edges  by  a  nar- 
row silk  passementerie ;  the  scallops  at  the  edges  are  buttonholed  and 
ornamented  with  fringe  to  match. 

Curtain  draperies  for  cabinets  or  a  double  row  of  shelves,  are  often 
cut  diagonally  from  the  upper  right  hand  corner  to  the  lower  left  hand 
corner,  and  the  one-half  of  silk  and  the  other  half  of  plush.  The  effect 
of  these  is  very  good.  They  are  put  on  with  gilt-headed  nails.  These 
shelves  are  pretty  to  put  under  mirrors  to  hold  an  old  vase  or  two,  a 
plaque,  a  bronze  piece  or  china  plate. 

Mantel  Lambrequins  are  considered  a  necessary  article  nowadays. 
A  lovely  one  can  be  made  of  black  satin  with  a  design  of  strawberries, 
flowers,  leaves  and  fruit  of  all  kinds,  buttonhole-stitched  on. 


DRAPERIES  AND  VALANCES.  179 

If  they  are  to  hang  straight  they  should  be  made  upon  buckram,  but 
if  they  are  to  festoon,  the  outer  Hning  is  sufficient.  Get  a  wooden  shelf 
the  size  of  the  mantel,  cover  it,  nail  on  the  lambrequin  and  finish 
round  the  edge  with  a  cord  to  hide  the  tacks ;  it  is  then  slipped  on  the 
mantel  without  any  fastenings. 

A  more  elegant  one  is  of  blue  satin  embroidered  ten  inches  deep  in 
natural  colored  flowers,  the  dark  leaves  and  bulrushes  standing  out  in 
relief ;  the  fringe  of  pale  blue  and  gold  colored  silk.  Another  is  of  sage 
green  cloth  embroidered  in  flowers  the  same  depth  and  finished  with  a 
very  deep  heavy  lambrequin  fringe. 

The  richest  material  for  mantel  lambrequins  is  sateen,  velvet,  plush 
and  Macrarae  lace  made  in  wheels  and  lined  with  crimson  velvet  also 
makes  a  very  rich  valance.  An  easier  one  to  make  is  a  straight  curtain, 
ten  or  twelve  inches  deep,  which  falls  over  a  mantel-shelf ;  on  its  dark 
surface  can  be  wrought  a  vine  or  border  in  loose  Indian  stitch,  and  the 
edge  finished  with  softly  finished  fringe  to  match.  The  corners  which 
drop  down  considerably  lower  than  the  curtains  should  be  tacked  in 
position  with  a  few  stitches  in  sugar  loaf  shape  and  the  end  of  a  tassel 
inserted  so  as  to  let  the  head  hang  below  the  fringe.  This  curtain  will 
have  to  be  made  deeper  if  the  shelf  is  as  wide,  as  it  is  to  be  spread  on 
the  top  and  fastened  to  the  shelf  at  extreme  ends  and  corners.  It  can  be 
finished  round  the  edge  of  the  mantel  with  cord  or  gimp ;  if  cord,  sew 
on  with  crooked  needle ;  if  gimp,  use  gimp  tacks.  If  the  goods  are 
plain,  in  place  of  embroidery,  gimp  or  bands  of  velvet,  plush  or  satin 
can  be  used,  feather-stitched  on.  If  brocade,  raw  silk  or  embossed 
velvets,  all  trimmings  except  fringe  can  be  dispensed  with. 

If  so  wished,  take  a  strip  of  goods  twelve  inches  deep,  line  it  and 
finish  it  off  with  narrow  fringe,  tack  it  on  the  edge  of  the  mantel,  then 
loop  it  up  with  cord  and  tassel  making  three  festoons  in  the  center  of 
the  mantel,  leaving  the  ends  to  droop  straight  down  where  it  comes 
against  the  wall.  This  makes  a  very  handsome  mantel  lambrequin. 
Bedroom  lambrequins  are  made  of  cretonne,  with  mantel  lambrequins 
to  match ;  these  are  trimmed  with  the  same  kind  of  goods,  cut  in  two, 
or  two  and  one-half  inch  deep  strips ;  pink  both  edges,  make  into  nich- 
ing and  trim  top  and  bottom.  A  narrow  cord  or  gimp  can  be  placed 
in  the  center  of  the  ruching.  These  are  very  pretty  where  the  room  is 
furnished  in  cretonne. 

An  open  fireplace  in  winter  has  hangings  which  are  suspended 
beneath  the  mantel  by  rings  that  slide  upon  a  small  rod  concealed  by 
the  mantel  lambrequin.  These  hangings  touch  the  hearth  or  floor,  and 
are  finished  to  correspond  with  all  the  other  draperies.  In  summer- 
time the  fireplace  may  be  concealed  completely.  When  a  fire  is  required, 
these  hangings  are  drawn  apart  upon  the  rod,  and  then  their  fullness  is 
hung  over  an  extended  ornament  Hke  those  which  hold  back  the  window 
and  door  draperies.     The  effect  thus  produced  is  more  charming  than 


180  HOUSE  FURNISHING. 

can  be  described.  If  the  fabric  is  of  a  pale,  delicate  color,  the  rods  and 
borderings  are  richly  tinted  and  darker;  but  if  dark,  their  accessories 
are  light,  and  suggestive  of  airiness. 

CABINETS. 

Hanging  cabinets,  more  or  less  like  those  which  the  insatiate  china 
collectors  of  Oueen  Anne's  time  made  fashionable,  are  among  the  pret- 
.tiest  of  modern  trifles.  But  care  must  be  exercised  in  their  selection. 
If  the  walls  are  white  or  very  light  in  tone,  ebonized  cabinets  or  those 
of  very  dark  natural  woods  must  be  rejected  and  the  less  conspicuous 
maple  or  ash  chosen,  otherwise  the  contrast  is  so  sharp  that  the  eye 
loses  pleasure  in  the  proportions  and  outlines  of  the  objects.  The  pan- 
els of  the  light-hued  cabinets  may  be  enriched  with  dead  gold  ;  but  on 
the  ebony  this  decoration  should  be  sparingly  used  and  as  a  rule  incised. 

It  is  essential  that  this  dainty  hanging  closet  should  seem  to  be  use- 
ful, and  not  placed  simply  to  gaze  at.  Therefore  the  shelves  must  be 
well  stocked  with  trifles ;  and  if  there  be  closed  doors,  they  must  be 
open  only  to  disclose  some  rare  or  fragile  objects  within.  The  arrange- 
ment of  the  visible  objects  should  be,  of  course,  like  that  of  the  mantel — 
irregular  though  orderly,  and  pyramidal  though  broken. 

Many  a  room  that  has  been  thought  hopelessly  characterless,  has 
been  made  attractive  by  its  wise  mistress,  who  covered  its  richly-carved 
table  with  a  black  cloth  with  a  border  of  richly-embroidered  peacock 
blue,  and  put  a  footstool  of  the  same  color  and  texture  beside  it ;  set  up 
a  great  jar  of  peacock  blue  above  it  in  Ime  of  the  ej^e,  fastened  one  little 
gleammg  mirror  to  the  wall,  and  at  the  far  end  of  the  apartment  posted 
an  old  second-hand  cabinet  in  black  and  dead  gold,  which  cost  next  to 
nothing,  and  was  the  one  bit  of  subdued  splendor  which  transformed 
the  monotony  into  variety. 

PICTURES. 

The  fashion  of  placing  illuminated  mats  around  photographs  has  a 
common-sense  foundation  when  viewed  in  a  housefurnishing  light. 
Where  the  walls  are  hung  with  pictures  of  black  and  white  only,  the 
room  is  apt  to  look  cold.  The  little  touches  of  color  in  the  corners  of 
the  mat  between  the  picture  and  the  frame  cannot  interfere  with  any- 
thing else  in  the  room,  and  add  greatly  to  the  bright  and  cheerful  effect 
of  the  whole.  Of  late  the  painters  have  designed  their  own  frames,  and 
the  result  is  encouraging.  Oak  or  pine  frames,  broad  and  flat,  unoma- 
mented,  and  with  the  gilding  laid  on  the  wood,  so  that  the  grain  shows 
through,  are  very  rich  and  effective  for  engravings,  prints  or  photographs. 
Water  colors,  with  a  wide  white  mat,  look  well  in  flat  frames  or  solid 
gilding,  with  a  rosette  in  each  corner,  or  in  plain,  well-rubbed  oak  or 
chestnut.  Some  painted  pine  frames  are  effective  for  engravings  or 
photographs.  Thus,  black  and  partial  gilt  or  even  white  or  dull  red 
will  prove  satisfactory,  but  the  color  should  be  "flatted"  so  as  not  to 


SCREENS  AND  EA::>ELS.  i8i 

shine,  and  the  ornament  incised.  Solid  gilt  frames  are  less  suited  to 
engravings  than  those  gilded  on  wood.  Frames  for  large  paintings  may 
appropriately  be  heavy  and  rich.  But  they  should  be  flat,  a  border,  and 
not  a  box ;  or,  if  they  slope,  it  should  be  backward  and  not  forward,  as 
is  the  common  way,  to  avoid  an  unmeaning  shadow.  And  the  enrich- 
ment should  be  worked  out  of  the  frame,  and  not  stuck  on.  Frames 
for  engravings,  on  the  other  hand,  should  be  light  and  simple  in  charac- 
ter, the  black  and  white  making  mass  enough  of  itself.  It  is  common 
now  to  see  two  or  three  etchings  or  sketches  by  the  same  hand,  or  of 
similar  character,  framed  together  in  one  long  frame,  divided  by  a  light 
band.  If  you  hang  a  picture  over  a  door,  do  not  let  it  be  a  small  water- 
color  sketch  or  anything  of  that  kind,  so  that  its  beauty  is  entirely  lost 
on  anybody  under  eight  feet  high  ;  the  pictures  that  look  best  over  doors 
are  still-life  pieces  of  flowers  or  fruit,  etc. 

SCREENS  AND  EASELS. 

Screens  and  easels  are  decorative  accessories  to  a  parlor  or  sitting 
room.  A  screen  may  be  large  enough  to  form  a  line  of  division  in  a 
room,  concealing  an  exit  or  an  entrance.  The  frames  are  made  in 
ebony,  or  ebonized  cherry  wood,  rather,  and  mahogany.  They  are 
decorated  in  various  ways ;  sometimes  with  Japanese  paper,  hand  painted 
designs  on  silk,  Japanese  embroidery  on  silk,  plush,  painted  velvet,  or  by 
shingles  of  ash  gilded  and  painted  in  some  pretty  picturesque  design. 
This  last  mentioned  is  the  latest  novelty  in  screen  decoration,  and  is  all 
the  rage.  The  grain  of  the  wood  shows  through  the  gilding,  and  it  is 
always  acceptable  because  refreshing  to  get  a  glimpse  of  nature. 
Japanese,  Chinese,  Indian,  Turkish  embroidery  or  painting,  crewel- 
work  on  silk  or  satin,  stamped  leather,  embossed  velvet,  and  gorgeous 
Oriental  brocades  all  take  their  place  in  giving  variety.  The  six-foot 
high  screen  with  three,  four,  or  six  leaves  has  usually  reversible  hinges, 
so  that  it  may  be  opened  in  any  direction.  The  frame-work  is  wood, 
painted  black,  red  or  green,  to  suit  the  colors  in  the  panels.  In  embroi- 
dering or  painting  a  screen,  the  flowers,  etc.,  selected  should  be  of  uni- 
form size — that  is,  not  one  panel  of  small  and  another  of  large  flowers. 
Brier,  rose,  myrtle  and  jasmine  go  together,  or  gladiolus,  iris  and  tiger- 
lily.  Storks,  cranes,  kingfishers,  with  water,  bulrushes,  and  so  on,  make 
very  effective  screens.  An  unique  one  is  painted  thus  in  white,  gray, 
and  black  on  yellow  Japanese  matting,  with  black  wood  frame,  and  is 
very  odd  and  pretty. 

Silk  Painted  Fire-Screens  are  very  ornamental.  A  strip  of  silk  of  a 
color  which  will  harmonize  in  tone  with  the  room  it  is  intended  to  deco- 
rate, is  first  painted  with  a  desirable  pattern,  Japanese  designs  being 
particularly  effective.  This  strip  is  then  lined  with  silk  of  the  same  or 
a  contrasting  color  and  mounted  upon  a  willow,  black-walnut  or  ebony 
standard.     Or  one  can  be  made,  inexpensively,  by  taking  black  satin 


182  HOUSE  FURNISHING. 

and  decorating'  it  with  flowers  cut  from  cretonne  and  pasted  artistically 
on  its  surface;  or  the  shiny  side  of  black  cambric  may  be  used  and  then 
varnished.  Pretty  ones  can  be  made  of  the  scroll  and  column  wall 
papers  now  in  use.  And  when  one  is  boarding  and  has  not  much  room, 
these  large  folding  screens  can  be  made  useful  as  well  as  ornamental. 
Any  carpenter  can  make  a  cheap  wood  frame,  and  then  it  can  be  painted 
or  stained.  One  can  be  made  of  walnut,  or  lighter  wood,  forty  inches 
high  and  twenty-seven  inches  broad ;  the  five-inch  feet  are  included  in 
the  height.  The  frame  is  of  the  walnut  or  light  wood,  the  center  is  a 
slab  of  pine.  The  frame,  if  of  walnut,  is  simply  polished ;  if  of  other 
wood  it  should  be  painted  or  ebonized.  Both  sides  of  the  pine  center 
are  covered,  on  one  side  with  tapestry  or  crimson  silk,  tacked  on  with 
brass  nails,  and  on  the  other  with  crimson  cambric  ;  over  this  Japanese 
pictures  painted  on  silk.  This  size  will  require  nine.  On  the  side 
covered  with  silk  or  tapestry  there  can  be  driven  at  intervals  little  brass 
nails,  on  which  to  hang  cabinet  (imperial  size)  photographs,  framed  in 
brass  or  crimson  velvet.  They  may  be  arranged  in  a  square,  an  oval  or 
a  lozenge,  and  should  be  portraits  of  literary,  theatrical  or  musical  cele- 
brities, or  any  beautiful  face  may  aid  in  making  this  a  bright  group. 
The  arrangement  of  choice  tapestry  or  silk  may  be  superseded  by  beau- 
tiful paper  or  a  painting,  or  chintz  in  applique,  and  both  sides  may  be 
Japanese  or  the  reverse.  If  the  Japanese  pictures  are  used  on  both 
sides  the  frame  had  better  be  ebonized,  the  black  being  near  the  color 
of  the  favorite  Japanese  teak  wood.  This  screen  is  not  incongruous, 
even  though  its  sides  are  different,  and  it  is  useful  to  hold  the  photo- 
graphs as  well  as  to  screen  from  the  fire. 

Smaller  fire-screens  are  sometimes  made  of  hand-painted  tiles, 
squares  of  quarry  glass  like  the  window-screens  of  which  we  spoke  in  a 
late  article.  Venetian  leather,  silk-embroidered  velvet,  and  peacocks' 
feathers.  They  may  be  of  the  same  style  as  the  larger  screens,  two 
and  a  half  or  three  feet  high,  and  two  or  three  leaves  only,  or  may  be 
but  a  three-foot  square  resting  on  two  supports  like  a  towel-horse. 

A  movable  screen  is  a  great  convenience  in  a  bed-room,  and  a  hand- 
some three-fold  one  may  be  worked  in  crewels  on  dull-blue  English 
serge.  Upon  one  panel  may  be  used  a  design  of  oranges,  their  leaves, 
fruit  and  blossoms ;  upon  the  next,  a  branch  of  foliage  holding  a  bird's 
nest,  with  a  few  butterflies  floating  around  it ;  the  third  may  have  hone}-- 
suckles,  either  the  coral  variety  or  the  creamy  fragrant  kind,  so  popular, 
as  adapted  to  the  art  works  of  the  period.  Mount  this  in  a  frame  of 
ebonized  wood.  The  side  and  top  piece  can  be  made  round  like  the 
bamboo  frames,  or  with  square  corners,  and  the  bottom  support  or 
standard  to  match.  If  the  frame  is  of  pine  it  wants  to  be  stained  to 
imitate  walnut,  and  then  oiled  or  varnished,  or  else  painted  black.  Or 
if  you  want  to  put  some  dainty,  light  colored  design  on  it,  have  the 


DECORA  TIVE  FANCIES.  183 

frame  painted  white,  light  blue  or  pink ;  whatever  the  color  of  the  screen 
is  to  be,  have  this  a  contrast,  as  light  blue  wood,  with  the  screen  a  pale 
blue  Watteau  design,  or  light  blue  or  cream  ground  with  pale  pink 
roses  or  buds.  If  the  wood  is  painted  with  the  paints  that  are  glossy, 
it  will  look  like  enameled  wood.  Some  of  the  paints  have  a  gloss  that 
gives  a  finish  called  "  China  paint."  The  frame  is  very  pretty  if  left  in 
the  natural  wood  and  simply  oiled,  using  the  dark  wood  for  a  screen 
that  has  a  dark  background,  and  the  light  wood  for  a  light  background. 
The  cretonnes  come  in  Watteau  designs,  with  fair  ladies  and  gallant 
knights  disporting  on  flowery  grounds  or  leaning  from  pagodas,  or  row- 
ing in  boats  after  water  lilies ;  again  beautiful  vases  with  bouquets  of 
flowers  and  trailing  vines  drooping  down  to  the  base ;  Japanese  fans  of 
all  sizes  and  shapes — all  these  come  in  cretonne  patterns  for  screens, 
and  have  only  to  be  tacked  on  with  a  narrow  upholstering  heading  and 
tiny  tacks.  They  are  then  ready  to  be  "  toted  "  around  and  made  to 
believe  they  are  the  most  convenient  article  in  the  house.  The  new 
wall-papers  that  come  for  dadoes  and  friezes  have  panels  of  just  the 
right  size  and  shape  for  screens  ;  if  put  on  a  back  ground  of  cambric, 
after  being  stretched  and  varnished,  they  are  as  durable  as  cloth  and 
much  richer  in  effect.  Beautiful  easels  made  of  the  same  wood,  and  in 
the  way  mentioned  above,  can  be  used  for  music,  pictures  or  engravings. 

DECORATIVE  FANCIES. 

A  Novelty  is  a  Tripod  Stand,  formed  of  twigs  of  rustic  wood,  var- 
nished. A  small  spool  of  cotton  or  silk  is  threaded  on  each  twig,  so 
that  the  silk  can  be  unwound  without  removing  the  spool. 

If  Small  Common  Flower  Pots  are  covered  with  the  black  silhouettes 
frequently  seen  in  illustrated  papers  and  German  books,  and  afterward 
varnished  and  suspended  by  cords,  they  will  form  unique  hanging  bas- 
kets for  ferns  and  vines. 

Bottles  can  be  made  for  smelling  salts  by  covering  any  bottle  that  has 
a  glass  stopper,  with  either  silk  or  satin,  and  painting  any  pretty  design 
on  the  silk.  The  smelling  salts  can  be  made  in  this  way :  Fill  the  bot- 
tle partly  full  of  lime ;  then  pour  over  the  lime  just  enough  aqua 
ammonia  to  moisten. 

A  Very  Pretty  Lamp  Shade  is  made  of  perforated  card-board,  fine 
tarlatan,  narrow  ribbons,  leaves  and  ferns.  The  leaves  and  ferns  should 
be  mostly  small  ones.  After  they  have  been  pressed  and  the  leaves 
waxed,  cut  six  pieces  of  card-board  and  arrange  the  leaves  and  ferns  on 
each  piece  differently.  When  arranged,  paste  them  on  the  tarlatans ; 
then  cover  the  card-board  on  both  sides  with  the  tarlatan,  bind  all  the 
edges  with  the  ribbon  and  sew  together. 

Unique  Hanging  Baskets  are  made  of  Japanese  umbrellas.  Take 
the  stick  out  of  a  medium-sized  one,  sew  a  strip  of  card-board  together 


184;  HOUSE  FURNISHING. 

to  form  a  circle  of  suitable  size ;  fasten  it  to  the  inside  of  the  umbrella, 
so  as  to  keep  it  in  shape  and  falling  open.  Put  a  bow  of  ribbon  or  a 
cord  and  tassel  at  the  top,  which  will  be  the  bottom  when  inverted. 
Hang  it  with  ribbons  to  the  chandelier,  or  in  one  of  the  windows.  Fill 
with  pressed  ferns,  dried  flowers  and  autumn  leaves,  and  it  will  be  a 
pleasant  bit  of  color. 

Hour  Glass  Work  Tables  are  covered  with  cretonne,  or  Swiss  muslin 
over  colored  cambric,  with  narrow  pleatings  around  the  edge.  Handsome 
banner  screens  are  made  of  gilded  morocco.  Paint  flowers  in  oil  colors 
in  the  center.  The  colors  should  be  mixed  with  turpentine  instead  of 
oil.  and  a  few  drops  mastic  varnish.  Ornament  the  lower  edge  with 
gold  bullion  fringe  one  and  a  half  or  two  inches  wide. 

Cabinets  are  very  pretty  with  the  same  hangings,  only  as  they 
require  Httle  material,  silk  or  satin  will  be  more  advisable,  being  much 
richer  in  effect.  A  novelty  instead  of  the  silk  is  to  substitute  fern  leaves,. 
glued  against  the  inside  of  the  glass  in  a  pretty  design,  and  back  of  that 
a  very  common-looking  glass  or  Swiss  muslin. 

It  is  another  very  fashionable  freak  just  now  to  remove  the  fret  work 
in  the  front  of  an  upright  piano,  and  in  its  place  put  a  piece  of  satin,  on 
which  is  painted,  in  wat^r-colors,  a  trail  of  Virginia  creeper  leaves,  or  ^ 
large  branch  of  wild  roses  and  leaves.  Cretonne  figures,  fastened  on 
black  velvet,  or  cloth,  are  very  effective. 

Basket  Pails  can  be  had  or  made  at  any  basket  shop;  these  are 
much  lighter  than  the  others,  and  can  be  easily  carried  about  in  the 
hand.  They  are  often  used  for  carrying  croquet  balls  on  the  lawn.  A 
piece  of  embroidered  crash,  sheeting  or  serge,  or  a  broad  band  of  patch- 
work can  be  utilized  for  covering,  or  pretty  cretonne.  They  are  pretty,, 
also,  for  keeping  w^ood  in,  by  drawing-room  or  bed-room  fire. 

Banner  Lamp  Screens  can  be  made  of  the  silk  hand-painted  Japan- 
ese screens  (cost  twenty-five  cents),  or  very  handsome  though  delicate- 
tidies  are  made  of  them.  These  want  a  lining  of  silk,  with  a  band  to 
project  beyond  the  screen  about  one  and  a  half  inches ;  over  this  silk  mar- 
gin place  a  band  of  lace  inserting  and  a  wide,  full  frill  of  lace.  These 
screens  can  also  be  used  for  cabinet  or  library  doors,  as  they  come  in 
any  size  and  are  painted  in  designs  of  birds,  grasses  and  flowers. 

The  Large  Ox  Ho7'ns,  polished  and  undecorated,  unless  with  hand 
painting — never  use  a  scrap-book  picture  on  any  of  Nature's  works,  it 
cheapens  them — finished  at  top  and  bottom  with  a  gilt  or  silver  rim  and 
hung  up  with  chain  tomatch,  or  wide  ribbon,  are  beautiful  filled  with 
grasses  or  ferns  and  suspended  from  a  chandelier  or  under  a  picture. 

A  Pretty  Qrnajnent  for  the  Center  of  the  Ceiling,  where  one  has  no 
hanging  lamp  or  chandelier,  is  an  air  castle  made  of  tiny  Japanese  par- 
asols. Take  three  of  them,  cut  a  slit  in  the  handles,  and  put  through 
them  a  silk  thread,  suspending  three  of  them  below,  then  two  above 
that,  then  one.     The  least  bit  of  air  will  sway  them. 


DECORA  TI VE  FANCIES.  1 85 

To  Make  an  U7iique  Work  Basket :  Take  a  basket,  either  oblong 
or  round,  string  cotton  spools  upon  a  strong  iron  wire,  inserting  the  bot- 
tom end  of  the  wire  into  half  of  a  wooden  ball,  and  the  upper  ends  are 
finished  off  with  wooden  knobs.  There  should  be  four  of  these  legs, 
and  a  certain  artistic  grace  is  added,  if  the  legs  are  made  to  curve  in  at 
the  center,  almost  meeting  each  other,  and  then  out  again.  After 
being  painted  and  varnished  this  is  a  quaint  and  picturesque  mounting 
for  the  work  basket. 

It  is  a  Pretty  Fashion  now  to  have  one  or  two  low  seats  about  a 
drawing-room  or  boudoir  in  the  form  of  two  large  square  cushions,  one 
upon  the  other.  In  two  colors,  such  as  blue  and  black,  red  or  black,  or, 
indeed,  of  any  colors  to  suit  the  furniture  of  the  room,  they  look  well. 
They  are  joined  together  at  right  angles,  with  or  without  tassels.  Col- 
ored satin  sheeting  is  a  good  material  to  cover  them  with,  or  a  pretty 
dark-flowered  cretonne. 

This  footstool  serves  also  for  an  ottoman,  in  which  case  the  cushions 
are  called  hassocks ;  made  of  bright-colored  cashmere  and  stuffed  with 
feathers  they  have  quite  an  Oriental  air  about  them.  A  very  pretty 
combination  is  cherry,  white  and  light  blue,  or  old  gold,  black  and 
crimson.  Some  are  of  zephyr-work  and  stuffed  with  hair,  but  these 
lack  the  airy  grace  of  the  others.  A  pair  of  these  adjustable  footstools, 
with  the  cushions  of  light  blue  silk  damask,  make  an  elegant  addition 
to  a  parlor. 

A  Case  for  Holding  Clothes-Brush,  and  something  new  and  pretty,  is 
made  in  this  style  :  It  looks  as  if  made  of  some  kind  of  Japanese  work, 
and  no  one  would  ever  think  from  just  looking  at  it  on  the  wall  that  it 
was  made  out  of  table  mats.  Yellow  straw  table  mats,  such  as  can  be 
bought  -at  any  house-furnishing  store,  and  are  used  for  setting  dishes 
on.  One  large  mat  forms  the  back  of  the  holder ;  about  an  inch  from 
the  edge  all  around  a  vine  is  worked  in  scarlet  silk ;  the  edge  is  not 
finished  with  anything,  for  the  mats  always  have  a  smooth  edge  and  a 
quilling  of  ribbon  would  take  off  from  the  effect.  Three  mats  of  the 
very  smallest  size  are  fastened  to  the  back  by  scarlet  silk  elastic  bands  ; 
the  center  mat  is  about  four  inches  across,  those  on  each  side  about  an 
inch  smaller;  on  each  side  of  these  is  worked  a  figure  in  scarlet  silk; 
the  elastic  is  fastened  in  two  places  on  each  side,  then  passed  through 
holes  made  in  the  back  and  fastened  on  the  under  side  so  that  when 
the  brushes  are  slipped  through  it  will  hold  them  firmly.  It  is  to  be 
hung  on  the  wall  by  two  curtain  rings  fastened  on  the  under  side. 

Pretty  Cushions  for  wicker  rocking  chairs  are  made  of  felt  cloth,  of  a 
dead  wood  color,  embroidered  with  scarlet  poppies  and  tied  in  the 
chair  with  bows  of  bright  scarlet  ribbon. 


186  HOUSE-KEEPING. 


HOUSE-KEEPINQ. 

THE  KITCHEN. 

The  kitchen  is  the  working  room  of  the  house ;  here  the  orders  are 
issued  for  the  day ;  from  here  are  the  meals  produced  for  the  family 
table,  and  for  this  reason,  if  no  other,  should  it  be  light,  airy,  clean 
and  well  furnished  with  everything  that  will  enable  one  to  systematize 
or  economize  in  work  and  steps.  Here  the  housekeeper  should  study 
and  contrive  to  have  things  convenient,  and  let  the  head  save  the  feet 
and  hands  many  hours  of  labor. 

If  the  floors  are  made  of  hard  wood,  and  simply  oiled  a  few  times  a 
year,  no  grease  spots  will  stick  on  them,  but  can  be  easily  wiped  off. 
If  the  wood-work  can  also  be  made  and  finished  in  the  same  way,  it  is 
advisable ;  if  not,  the  floor  and  wood-work  should  be  painted  in  cor- 
responding colors.  If  the  walls  have  never  been  papered,  they  may 
be  tinted  and  varnished,  and  then  they  can  be  wiped  off  at  any  time 
with  a  damp  cloth ;  if  they  must  be  papered,  choose  a  medium-colored 
paper,  neither  very  light  or  dark,  and  have  the  ceiling  tinted  a  very 
light  grey,  or  buff. 

Put  red  shades  at  the  window,  a  plant  or  two  on  the  sills,  a  side  lamp 
on  the  wall  so  that  the  room  may  be  well  lighted,  and  out  of  the  way ; 
a  low,  old-fashioned  lounge,  with  calico  cushion,  filled  with  excelsior, 
and  pillow  to  match ;  a  rocker,  straight-backed  chair,  and  a  small  stand. 
All  this  is  for  the  housekeeper's  comfort ;  for  though  it  is  a  kitchen,  it 
is  not  necessary  that  one  may  have  no  time  for  comfort  or  rest.  If  the 
mistress  is  seldom  in  the  kitchen  there  is  all  the  more  reason  for  making 
the  girl  comfortable.  Few  servant  girls  will  leave  a  mistress  who  makes 
their  working  place  pleasant,  and  shows  a  proper  consideration  for  their 
comfort.  Then  when  their  work  is  done  they  can  black  their  stove, 
shut  away  all  the  unsightly  implements  of  their  service,  and  for  a  time 
forget  that  they  are  working  for  others,  but  as  if  in  a  house  of  their 
own ;  this  gives  them  a  home-feeling  and  attaches  them  to  the  place. 

Have  separate  cupboards  made  for  the  iron  and  tin-ware,  and  a 
closet  for  earthen-ware,  spice  boxes,  etc.  A  sink  is  necessary  for 
dish-washing,  and,  if  possible,  a  long  table  should  be  placed  near 
the  sink  to  place  dishes  upon.  A  folding  table,  or  one  that  may  be 
let  down  from  the  wall  is  quite  necessary  for  cutting  bread,  pie  or 
cake  upon,  and  should  be  kept  exclusively  for  things  of  this  kind. 
The  pantry  should  have  an  abundance  of  shelves  and  cupboards — 
it  can  hardly  have  too  many — the  upper  closets  for  the  silver  and 
china,  and  the  lower  ones  to   hold  other  utensils   when  not  in   use. 


THE  CARE  OF  KITCHEN  UTENSILS.  187 

The  drawers  are  for  table  linen  and  dish  towels.  At  the  pantry  window 
should  be  placed  a  green  shade  and  screen  to  shut  out  flies  and  light. 
Use  a  brush  to  wash  potatoes.  In  the  work  apron  have  two  pockets, 
one  to  keep  a  clean  holder  in,  and  near  the  stove  have  a  place  to  hang 
another,  to  handle  kettles  and  pans.  A  piece  of  clam  shell  is  useful  to 
scrape  kettles,  if  you  are  unfortunate  enough  to  burn  them.  A  ripe 
tomato  will  cleanse  the  hands  after  paring  fruit,  and  also  remove  the 
grease  from  the  table.  If  you  use  a  copper  kettle,  or  tea-kettle,  wash 
it  with  sour  milk,  then  with  clean  water,  and  it  will  be  as  good  as  new. 

THE  CARE  OF  KITCHEN  UTENSILS. 

Keep  apart  things  that  would  injure  each  other,  or  destroy  their 
flavor. 

Keep  every  cloth,  saucepan  and  all  other  utensils  to  their  proper  use, 
and  when  done  with,  put  them  in  their  proper  places. 

Keep  every  copper  stewpan  and  saucepan  bright  without,  and  per- 
fectly clean  within,  and  take  care  that  they  are  always  well  tinned. 
Keep  all  your  dish-covers  well  dried,  and  polished ;  and  to  effect  this  it 
will  be  necessary  to  wash  them  in  scalding  water  as  soon  as  removed 
from  the  table,  and  when  these  things  are  done  let  them  be  hung  up  in 
their  proper  places. 

The  gridiron,  frying-pan,  spit,  dripping-pan,  etc.,  must  be  perfectly 
cleaned  of  grease  and  dried  before  they  are  put  in  their  proper  places. 

Attention  should  be  paid  to  things  that  do  not  meet  the  sight  in  the 
way  that  tins  and  copper  vessels  do.  Let,  for  instance,  the  pudding 
cloth,  the  dish-cloth  and  the  dish-tub,  be  always  kept  perfectly  clean. 
To  these  may  be  added,  the  sieve,  the  colander,  the  jelly-bag,  etc., 
which  ought  always  to  be  washed  as  soon  after  they  are  used  as  may 
be  practicable. 

Scour  your  rolling-pin  and  paste-board  as  soon  after  using  as  pos- 
sible, but  without  soap,  or  any  gritty  substance,  such  as  sand  or  brick- 
dust  ;  put  them  away  perfectly  dry. 

Scour  your  pickle  and  preserve  jars  after  they  are  emptied;  dry 
and  put  them  away  in  a  dry  place. 

Wipe  your  bread  and  cheese-pan  out  daily  with  a  dry  cloth,  and  scald 
them  once  a  week.  Scald  your  salt-pan  when  out  of  use,  and  dry  it 
thoroughly.     Scour  the  lid  well  by  which  it  is  covered  when  in  use. 

Mind  and  put  all  things  in  their  proper  places,  and  then  you  will  easily 
find  them  when  they  are  wanted. 

You  must  not  poke  things  out  of  sight  instead  of  cleaning  them,  and 
such  things  as  onions,  garlick,  etc.,  must  not  be  cut  with  the  same  knife 
as  is  used  in  cutting  meat,  bread,  butter,  etc.  Milk  must  not  be  put 
in  a  vessel  used  for  greasy  purposes,  nor  must  clear  liquids,  such  as 
water,  etc.,  be  put  into  vessels  which  have  been  used  for  milk,  and  not 


188  HO  USE-KEEPING. 

washed ;  in  short,  no  vessel  must  be  used  for  any  purpose  for  which  it 
is  not  appropriated. 

You  must  not  suffer  any  kind  of  food  to  become  cold  in  any  metal 
vessel,  not  even  in  well-tinned  iron  saucepans,  etc.,  for  they  will  impart 
a  more  or  less  unpleasant  flavor  to  it.  Above  all  things,  you  must  not 
let  liquid  food,  or  in  fact  any  other,  remain  in  brass  or  copper  vessels 
after  it  is  cooked.  The  rust  of  copper  or  brass  is  absolutely  poisonous, 
and  this  will  alv/ays  be  produced  by  moisture  and  exposure  to  the  air. 

Do  not  throw  away  the  fat  which,  when  cold,  accumulates  on  the  top 
of  liquors  in  which  fresh  or  salt  meat  has  been  boiled ;  such  as  marrow- 
bones, or  any  other  clean  bones  from  which  food  may  be  extracted  in 
the  way  of  soup,  broth  or  stock,  or  in  any  other  way. 

Do  not  do  the  dirty  work  at  a  table  set  apart  for  cleanly  preparations. 
Take  care  to  have  plenty  of  kitchen  cloths,  and  mark  them  so  that  a 
duster  may  not  be  mistaken  for  a  towel,  or  a  knife  cloth  for  a  duster. 

Keep  your  boiler  and  stewpans  perfectly  clean,  and  free  from  rust 
and  dust. 

Never  employ  any  knives,  spoons,  dishes,  cups,  or  any  articles  in  the 
kitchen,  which  belong  to  the  dining  room.  Spoons  are  sure  to  get 
scratched,  and  a  knife  used  for  preparing  an  onion,  takes  up  its  flavor, 
which  two  or  three  cleanings  will  not  entirely  take  away. 

Take  great  care  to  prevent  all  preparations  which  are  delicate  in  their 
nature,  such  as  custards,  blanc  mange,  dressed  milks,  etc.,  from  burning, 
to  which  they  are  very  liable.  The  surest  way  to  effectually  hinder  this, 
is  to  boil  them  in  an  outside  vessel  filled  with  water. 

SERVICEABLE  SUGGESTIONS. 

Kerosene  will  make  the  tin  tea-kettle  as  new.  Saturate  a  woolen 
rag,  and  rub  with  it.  It  will  also  remove  stains  from  clean  varnished 
furniture. 

To  clean  tinware :  Damp  a  cloth  and  dip  in  common  soda,  and  rub 
the  ware  briskly,  after  which  wipe  dry.  Any  blackened  ware  can  be 
made  to  look  as  good  as  new. 

After  a  stove  has  once  been  thoroughly  blacked,  it  can  be  kept  look- 
ing well  for  a  long  time  by  rubbing  it  with  a  newspaper  every  morning. 

Lamp  chimneys  can  be  washed  easily  by  holding  them  over  the  nose 
of  the  tea-kettle  when  the  kettle  is  boiling  furiously.  This  will  make 
them  beautifully  clear.  Of  course  they  must  be  wiped  with  a  clean 
cloth. 

In  washing  dishes,  pots  and  kettles,  a  wisp  of  broom-cbm  and  a  small 
quantity  of  soapy  water  is  handy  and  useful  in  cleaning  them  from  all 
bits  and  grease,  which  is  objectionable  to  the  dishcloth.  The  wisps  are 
formed  by  tying  the  broom-corn  into  bundles,  as  large  as  a  broom 
handle,  with  two  stout  cords  near  the  coarse  ends,  which  form  a  handle. 


SER  VICE  ABLE  S  UGGES  TIONS.  189 

Old  boot  tops,  cut  into  pieces  the  right  size  and  lined,  make  good  iron 
holders.     The  leather  keeps  all  heat  away  from  the  hand. 

Corsets  with  the  whalebones  removed  make  good  cleaning  cloths. 
,  Iron  holders  should  have  a  cover  of  white  cotton  cloth  made  to  fit 
nicely,  and  fastened  on  with  buttons,  and  when  it  becomes  soiled  it  can 
be  removed,  washed  and  replaced. 

To  make  a  mop  take  old  wrappers  cut  in  convenient  strips ;  do  not 
get  it  too  heavy  or  it  will  strain  the  hands. 

The  best  dish  cloths  are  made  of  corsets  with  the  whalebones  all  out 
and  only  the  cords  left  in,  or  small  turkish  towels  cut  to  convenient  size. 

When  dish-towels  begin  to  wear  out,  fold  them  together,  the  best 
outside,  as  small  or  large  as  you  like,  and  run  together  around  and 
across  through  the  center  with  coarse  thread. 

It  is  a  good  idea  to  keep  a  supply  of  ironing  holders  made  up ;  take 
old  cloths,  fold  as  many  thicknesses  wanted,  and  cover  with  a  new 
piece  of  heavy  cloth,  tacking  in  the  center,  then  you  can  have  a  clean 
holder  when  necessary  without  having  to  stop  and  make  one. 

An  oven  holder  should  be  made  of  heavy  cloth,  two  thicknesses,  and 
fully  half  a  yard  square ;  an  old  grain  sack  makes  them.  This  will 
save  you  many  a  burn  and  keep  you  from  using  your  dish-towel  or 
apron. 

Keep  your  stove  blacking  brush  and  plate  handy,  and  after  dinner 
each  day  brush  off  your  stove,  and  you  will  find  it  much  nicer  than 
washing  it  off;  besides  with  an  occasional  brushing  your  stove  will 
always  look  nicely,  and  if  your  stove  is  not  kept  looking  clean  the  whole 
kitchen  looks  untidy. 

A  cloth  saturated  in  kerosene  and  dipped  into  whiting,  for  cleaning 
tinware,  is  much  better  than  anything  else  used. 

When  sweeping,  dip  the  broom  occasionally  in  water,  hot  is  best,  and 
keep  the  dust  from  flying  over  everything.  Coarse  salt  sprinkled  over 
the  floor  occasionally  is  said  to  keep  the  moths  out  of  the  carpet. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  put  new  earthen  ware  into  cold  water  and  let  it 
heat  gradually  until  it  boils ;  then  cool  again.  Brown  earthenware  in 
particular  may  be  toughened  in  this  way.  A  handful  of  rye  or  wheat 
bran  thrown  in  while  it  is  boiling  will  preserve  the  glazing  so  that  it 
will  not  be  destroyed  by  acid  or  salt. 

New  iron  should  be  gradually  heated  at  first.  After  it  has  become 
used  to  the  heat  it  is  not  as  likely  to  crack. 

To  remove  iron  taste  from  new  kettles,  boil  a  handful  of  hay  in  them, 
and  repeat  the  process  if  necessary.  Hay  water  is  a  great  sweetener  of 
tin,  wooden  and  iron  ware.  In  Irish  dairies  everything  used  for  milk  is 
scalded  with  hay  water. 

All  sorts  of  vessels  and  utensils  may  be  purified  from  long  retained 
smells  of  every  kind,  in  the  easiest  and  most  perfect  manner,  by  rinsing 


190  HOUSE-KEEPING, 

them  out  well  with  charcoal  powder  after  the  grosser  impurities  have 
been  scoured  off  with  sand  and  water. 

A  piece  of  charcoal  to  be  changed  occasionally  should  be  kept  in 
refrigerators  as  a  purifier.  Milk,  butter  and  all  strong-smelling  articles 
should  be  kept  covered,  especially  when  the  water  from  the  refrigerator 
is  used  for  drinking. 

Old  wall  paper  can  be  very  much  improved  in  appearance  by  simply 
rubbing  it  well  with  a  flannel  cloth  dipped  in  oat  meal. 

Carbolic  acid  may  be  used  with  satisfactory  results  during  the  sum- 
mer months  to  destroy  ants,  and  as  a  disinfectant. 

Gum  camphor  is  a  speedy  remedy  to  clear  the  house  of  cockroaches. 

An  oyster  shell  put  into  a  tea-kettle  will  prevent  its  becoming  furred. 

Newspapers  are  good  for  cleaning  stoves,  tinware,  knives,  spoons, 
mirrors,  windows  and  lamp  chimneys. 

To  prevent  milk  rapidly  souring,  put  in  a  very  small  portion  of  bicar- 
bonate of  soda. 

Apply  a  little  soap  to  the  hinges  to  prevent  the  doors  creaking. 

Kitchen  floors  painted  with  boiled  linseed  oil  are  easiest  cleaned. 

When  water  has  once  been  made  to  boil,  the  fire  may  be  very  much 
lessened,  as  but  little  heat  is  required  to  keep  it  at  a  boiling  point. 
There  is  no  advantage  whatever  in  making  water  boil  furiously ;  the 
heat  will  escape  in  steam,  without  raising  the  heat  of  the  water. 

Kerosene  lamps  which  are  trimmed  daily  rarely  explode.  The  care- 
lessness of  the  housewife  can  be  blamed  for  most  of  the  lamp  explosions. 

Grease  can  be  drawn  from  unpainted  kitchen  floors  by  putting  plenty 
of  soft  soap  on  the  spot  and  rubbing  a  hot  flat-iron  through  the  soap. 
One  application  is  usually  sufficient;  sometimes  another  is  required, 
washing  thoroughly  afterwards. 

Oil  cloths  can  be  kept  like  new  if  washed  once  a  month  in  skim  milk 
and  water,  equal  quantities  of  each ;  rub  them  once  in  three  months 
with  linseed  oil ;  put  on  very  little,  rub  it  in  well  and  polish  with  an  old 
silk  cloth,  and  they  will  keep  for  years. 

Nothing  is  better  to  clean  silver  with  than  alcohol  and  ammonia; 
after  rubbing  with  this  take  a  little  whitening  or  a  soft  cloth  and  polish 
in  this  way ;  even  frosted  silver,  which  is  so  difficult  to  clean,  may  be 
easily  made  clear  and  bright. 

To  remove  ink  spots  on  floors :  Rub  with  sand  wet  in  oil  of  vitriol 
and  water.  When  the  ink  is*  removed,  rinse  with  strong  pearl-ash 
water. 

To  clean  brass,  immerse  or  wash  it  several  times  in  sour  milk  or 
whey;  this  will  brighten  it  without  scouring;  it  may  then  be  scoured 
with  a  woolen  cloth  dipped  in  ashes. 

To  remove  the  lids  of  tin  cans,  place  a  shovelful  of  live  coals  on  the 
top,  which  will  speedily  unsolder  them ;  they  can  then  be  removed  by 


SERVICEABLE  SUGGESTIONS,  191 

the  aid  of  an  old  case-knife ;  care  must  be  taken  or  the  side  seam  will 
also  open. 

Take  coach  varnish  and  renew  all  the  old  oil  cloths.  Wash  them 
clean,  wipe  dry  and  apply  a  coat  of  varnish.  Be  careful  not  to  step  on 
them  until  they  are  dry.  If  this  is  done  once  a  year  the  oil  cloths  will 
last  twice  as  long  as  they  will  without  it. 

In  washing  windows  a  narrow  bladed  wooden  knife,  sharply  pointed, 
will  take  out  the  dust  that  hardens  in  the  corners  of  the  sash.  Dry 
whiting  will  polish  the  glass,  which  should  first  be  washed  with  weak 
black  tea  mixed  with  a  little  alcohol. 

When  putting  away  the  silver  tea  or  coffee  pot  which  is  not  used 
every  day,  lay  a  little  stick  across  the  top  under  the  cover ;  this  will 
allow  fresh  air  to  get  in,  and  will  prevent  mustiness ;  it  will  then  be 
ready  for  use  at  any  time,  after  having  first  been  thoroughly  rinsed  with 
boiling  water. 

To  remove  starch  or  rust  from  flat-irons,  have  a  piece  of  yellow  bees- 
wax tied  in  a  coarse  cloth ;  when  the  iron  is  almost  hot  enough  to  use, 
but  not  quite,  rub  it  quickly  with  the  beeswax  and  then  with  a  clean 
coarse  cloth  or  on  sand  paper. 

Chippings  from  marble  put  in  the  fire  till  red  hot,  then  cooled  and 
pounded  fine,  is  the  best  sand  for  scrubbing  white  floors  and  tinware. 

A  good  way  to  clean  zinc  is  to  rub  it  with  a  piece  of  cotton  cloth 
dipped  in  kerosene ;  afterward  rub  with  a  dry  cotton  cloth  and  it  will 
be  as  bright  as  when  new.  Zincs  may  be  scoured  with  great  economy 
of  time  and  strength  by  using  either  glycerine  or  creosote  mixed  with 
a  little  diluted  sulphuric  acid. 

To  take  the  woody  taste  out  of  a  wooden  pail,  fill  the  pail  with  boil- 
ing hot  water ;  let  it  remain  until  cold,  then  empty  it  and  dissolve  some 
soda  in  lukewarm  water,  adding  a  Httle  lime  to  it  and  wash  the  inside 
well  with  the  solution ;  after  that,  scald  with  hot  water  and  rinse  well. 

If  brooms  are  wet  in  boiling  suds  once  a  week  they  will  become  very 
tough,  will  not  cut  a  carpet,  will  last  much  longer  and  always  sweep 
like  a  new  broom.  A  good  housekeeper  never  allows  her  carpet  broom 
to  be  used  for  sweeping  the  outside  stairs  or  yard  ;  keep  a  coarse  broom 
for  this  purpose.  To  keep  a  broom  from  getting  stiff  and  hard,  hang  it 
in  the  cellar  way.  If  raw  potatoes  or  the  peelings  are  cut  fine  and 
sprinkled  on  the  carpet  before  sweeping,  they  will  be  found  more  effect- 
ual than  salt  or  cornmeal. 

Old  towels  make  nice  dusters  by  having  the  ends  sewed  together. 

Do  not  let  knives  be  dropped  into  hot  water.  It  is  a  good  plan  to 
have  a  large  tin  pot  to  wash  them  in,  just  high  enough  to  wash  the 
blades  without  wetting  the  handles.  Keep  your  castors  covered  with 
blotting  paper  and  green  flannel.  Keep  your  salt  spoons  out  of  the 
salt  and  clean  them  often.     When  ivory  handled  knives  turn  yellow, 


192  HO  USE-KEEPING. 

rub  them  with  nice  sand  paper  or  emery ;  it  will  take  off  all  the  spots 
and  restore  their  whiteness. 

Steel  knives  may  be  saved  from  rusting  by  being-  rubbed  with  mutton 
tallow,  wrappad  in  paper,  and  put  into  a  baize  lined  chest. 

Do  not  wrap  knives  and  forks  in  woolens.  Wrap  them  in  good, 
strong  paper.     Steel  is  injured  by  lying  in  woolens. 

Crockery  with  gilt  bands  or  flowers  should  not  be  wiped.  It  should 
be  washed  quickly,  rinsed  and  drained  until  dry. 

Tumblers  that  have  had  milk  in  them  should  not  be  put  in  hot  water. 

Glass  should  be  washed  in  cold  water,  which  gives  it  a  brighter  and 
cleaner  look  than  when  cFeansed  with  warm  water. 

Britannia  ware  should  be  first  rubbed  gently  with  a  woolen  cloth  and 
sweet  oil ;  then  washed  in  warm  water  suds  and  rubbed  with  soft 
leather  and  whiting.     Thus  treated  it  will  retain  its  beauty  to  the  last. 

Have  plenty  of  crash  towels  in  the  kitchen ;  never  let  your  white 
towels  or  napkins  be  used  there. 

DOMESTIC  COOKERY  SCIENCE. 

Always  get  your  material  for  breakfast  ready  over  night ;  fix  the  fire 
all  ready  to  light,  fill  the  tea  kettle,  grind  the  coffee  and  prepare  the 
potatoes,  and  thus  you  can  sleep  half  an  hour  longer  in  the  morning. 

Every  housekeeper  should  have  "a  place  for  everything  and  every- 
thing in  its  place  "  framed  and  hung  in  a  conspicuous  place  and  follow 
the  directions. 

Keep  your  salt  and  pepper  boxes  on  a  little  shelf  back  of  or  near  the 
stove  and  save  your  steps. 

Lard  requires  no  other  care  than  to  be  kept  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 
Pack  butter  in  a  clean,  scalded  firkin ;  cover  it  with  a  strong  brine  and 
spread  a  cloth  all  over  the  top.  If  you  have  a  bit  of  saltpetre  dissolve 
it  with  the  brine.  Butter  comes  more  easily  and  has  a  peculiar  hard- 
ness and  sweetness,  if  the  cream  is  scalded  and  strained  before  it  is 
used.  The  cream  should  stand  down  cellar  over  night,  after  being 
scalded,  that  it  may  get  perfectly  cold.  Suet  and  lard  keep  better  in  tin 
than  in  earthen.  Suet  will  keep  good  the  year  around,  if  chopped  and 
packed  down  in  a  stone  jar  covered  with  molasses. 

Do  not  let  Coffee  and  Tea  stand  in  tin.  .  Scald  your  wooden  ware 
often,  and  keep  the  tin  ware  perfectly  dry.  Wash  dishes  in  a  wooden 
bowl  and  there  will  be  less  danger  from  breaking,  or  scratching  of  the 
silver  ware. 

Keep  Salt  in  a  dry  place ;  yeast  in  wood  or  glass ;  fresh  lard  in  tin 
vessels  ;  vinegar  in  wood  or  glass  ;  preserves  and  jellies  in  glass  ;  meal 
and  flour  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Sugar  is  an  admirable  ingredient  in  curing  meat  and  fish.  Crusts 
and  pieces  of  bread  should  be  kept  in  an  earthen  jar,  closely  covered,  in 


DOMESTIC  COOKERY  SCIENCE.  193 

a  dry,  cool  place.  Lard  for  pastry  should  be  used  hard  as  it  can  be 
cut  with  a  knife.     It  should  be  cut  through  the  flour,  not  rubbed. 

Poor  Flour  should  never  be  bought  for  bread  ;  the  best  is  cheapest. 
Pans  for  wheat  bread  should  be  greased  very  lightly,  either  with  butter 
or  lard ;  for  rye,  Indian  or  Graham,  they  must  be  greased  more  thor- 
ougly,  as  the  dough  clings  lo  the  pans  more.  Bread  or  anything  con- 
taining much  starch  should  be  eaten  slowly.  A  crust  of  French  bread 
eaten  very  slowly  at  the  beginning  of  a  meal  often  improves  the  appe- 
tite of  delicate  people. 

Good  flour  is  not  tested  by  its  color.  White  flour  may  not  be  the 
best     The  test  of  good  flour  is  the  amount  of  water  it  absorbs. 

Meats. — In  boiling  meat  for  soup,  use  cold  water  to  extract  the 
juices.  If  the  meat  is  wanted  for  itself  alone,  plunge  in  boiling  water 
at  once.  ...  To  prevent  meat  from  scorchmg  during  roasting,  place  a 
basin  of  water  in  the  oven.  The  steam  generated  prevents  scorching, 
and  makes  the  meat  cook  better. .  .  .  Broil  steak  without  salting.  Salt 
draws  the  juices  in  cooking;  it  is  desirable  to  keep  these  in  if  possible. 
Cook  over  a  hot  fire,  turning  frequently,  searing  on  both  sides.  Place 
on  a  platter ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  .  .  .  Beef  having  a  tendency  to 
be  tough  can  be  made  very  palatable  by  stewing  gently  for  two  hours, 
with  pepper  and  salt,  taking  out  about  a  pmt  of  the  liquor  when  half 
done,  and  letting  the  rest  boil  into  the  meat.  Brown  the  meat  in  the 
pot.  After  taking  up,  make  a  gravy  of  the  pint  of  liquor  saved.  .  .  . 
Cutlets  and  steaks  should  be  fried  as  well  as  broiled,  but  they  must  be 
put  in  hot  butter  or  lard.  The  grease  is  hot  enough  when  it  throws  off 
a  bluish  smoke.  ...  In  cooking  a  fowl,  to  ascertain  when  it  is  done,  put 
a  skewer  into  the  breast,  and  if  the  breast  is  tender  the  fowl  is  done.  .  .  . 
A  roast  of  beef  is  much  nicer  if,  when  you  put  it  into  the  pan  to  bake, 
you  set  it  on  the  hot  stove ;  let  it  brov/n  on  one  side,  then  turn  and 
brown  on  the  other ;  then  add  the  hot  water  and  seasoning  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven  and  the  juice  is  retained  in  the  meat.  .  .  .  Meat  and  poultry 
will  lose  their  flavor  and  firmness  if  left  in  the  water  after  they  are  done  ; 
as  will  also  fish,  which  will  break  to  pieces. ...  A  spoonful  of  stewed 
tomatoes  in  the  gravy  of  either  roasted  or  fried  meats  is  an  improve- 
ment. ...  A  little  ginger  put  into  sausage  meat  improves  the  flavor.  .  .  , 
In  gravies  and  milk  porridge  the  salt  should  not  be  added  until  the  dish 
is  prepared. 

Vegetables  should  not  be  washed  until  just  before  cooking.  ...  If 
the  hands  are  kept  in  water  while  peeling  and  slicing  onions  the  eyes 
will  not  suffer.  It  is  particularly  desirable  that  this  should  be  done 
when  preparing  small  onions  to  pickle.  .  .  ,  Turnip-peel,  washed  clean 
and  tied  in  a  nejL,  imparts  a  flavor  to  soups.  Celery  leaves  and  ends 
serve  the  same  purpose.  .  .  .  Have  all  the  good  bits  of  vegetables  and 
n^eats  collected  after  dinner  and  minced  before  they  are  set  away,  that 
13 


194  HOUSE-KEEPING^ 

they  may  be  in  readiness  to  make  a  little  savory  mince  meat  for  supper 
or  breakfast.  Take  the  skins  off  potatoes  before  they  are  cold.  .  .  . 
Cucumbers  if  sliced  into  very  cold  v^ater  will  be  made  crisp  and  better, 
even  if  not  perfectly  fresh.  .  .  .  Onions  may  be  soaked  all  night  without 
taking  the  flavor  out  of  them.  .  .  .  Potatoes  ought  not  to  stand  too  long 
in  water,  for  it  takes  the  starch  out  of  them  and  makes  them  tasteless. 
.  .  .  Old  potatoes  may  be  freshened  up  by  plunging  them  into  cold  water 
before  cooking.  .  .  .  To  bake  potatoes  quickly,  pour  boiling  water  over 
them  and  let  them  stand  a  minute  or  so  before  putting  into  the  oven. 
.  .  .•To  boil  potatoes  so  they  will  be  dry  and  mealy,  when  the  skin 
breaks  pour  off  the  water  and  let  them  finish  cooking  in  their  own 
steam.  .  .  .  Potatoes  at  any  time  of  the  year  can  be  made  mealy  if  boiled 
in  salt  water  and  drained  and  then  covered  with  a  thick  towel  and  left 
in  the  back  of  the  range  five  minutes.  .  .  .  Cold  potatoes,  mashed  with 
peas,  make  an  excellent  and  light  peas  pudding.  .  .  .  There  is  a  green- 
ness in  onions  and  potatoes  that  render  them  hard  to  digest.  For 
health's  sake  put  them  in  warm  water  for  an  hour  before  cooking.  .  .  . 
A  lump  of  bread  about  the  size  of  a  billiard  ball,  tied  up  in  a  linen  bag 
and  placed  in  the  pot  in  which  greens  are  boilmg  will  absorb  the  gases 
which  oftentimes  send  such  an  unpleasant  odor  to  the  regions  above,  or 
a  small  piece  of  charcoal  in  the  pot  with  boiling  cabbage  removes  the 
smell.  The  reason  why  cabbage  emits  such  a  disagreeable  smell  when 
boiling  is  because  the  process  dissolves  the  essential  oil.  The  water 
should  be  changed  when  the  cabbage  is  half  boiled,  and  it  will  thus 
acquire  a  greater  sweetness.  ...  A  few  slices  of  potatoes  put  in  the  lard 
while  frying  doughnuts  will  keep  them  from  burning.  .  .  .  Take  the 
turnip  and  cabbage  stocks  that  have  been  sprouting  during  the  winter, 
wash  them  nicely,  cut  them  as  you  do  cabbage  for  slaw ;  put  in  a  deep 
dish  and  pour  sweetened  vinegar  over  them.     This  is  a  delicious  dish. 

In  making  Crust  of  any  kind,  do  not  melt  the  lard  in  flour.  Melting 
will  injure  the  crust. 

In  boiling  dumplings  of  any  kind,  put  them  in  the  water  one  at  a 
time.     If  they  are  put  in  together  they  will  mix  with  each  other. 

If  you  flavor  a  rhubarb  pie  with  nutmeg  it  will  improve  it  greatly  and 
make  it  taste  like  a  fresh  apple  pie. 

To  brown  sugar  for  sauce  or  puddings,  put  the  sugar  in  a  perfectly 
dry  saucepan.  If  the  pan  is  the  least  bit  wet,  the  sugar  will  burn  and 
you  will  spoil  your  saucepan. 

Whenever  you  see  your  sauce  boil  from  the  sides  of  the  pan  you  may 
knov/  your  flour  or  corn-starch  is  done. 

Sour  Apple  Sauce  is  greatly  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  table- 
spoonful  of  batter  to  a  quart  of  sauce,  and,  moreover,  there  is  much  less 
sugar  needed.     A  little  lemon  peel  makes  a  fine  flavor. 

Jelly  Molds  should  be  greased  with  cold  butter.     When  you  wish  to 


DOMESTIC  COOKERY  SCIENCE.  195 

remove  the  jelly  or  pudding,  plunge  the  mold  into  hot  water,  remove 
quickly,  and  the  contents  will  come  out  in  perfect  form  and  without  any 
trouble. 

Never  put  a  pudding  that  is  to  be  steamed  in  anything  else  than  a 
dry  mold. 

To  clean  raisins,  wipe  them  with  a  dry  towel.  Never  wash  them,  for 
it  will  make  cakes  or  puddings  heavy. 

If  ripe  cherries  are  put  in  water  the  wormy  ones  will  always  rise. 

In  making  any  sauce,  put  the  butter  and  flour  in  together  and  your 
sauce  will  never  be  lumpy. 

To  brown  sugar  for  puddings,  put  the  sugar  on  in  a  perfectly  dry  pan. 
If  the  pan  is  the  least  wet  the  sugar  will  burn  and  spoil  both  it  and 
the  pan. 

Biscuits  broken,  and  the  crumbs  are  good  for  puddings. 

Morning's  milk  is  richer  than  that  of  evening. 

Single  Cream  is  cream  that  has  stood  on  the  milk  twelve  hours.  It 
is  the  best  for  tea  and  coffee.  Double  cream  stands  on  its  milk  twenty- 
four  hours,  and  cream  for  butter  frequently  stands  forty-eight  hours. 
Cream  that  is  to  be  whipped  should  not  be  butter  cream,  lest  in  whip- 
ping it  change  to  butter. 

When  milk  sours,  scalding  will  render  it  sweet  again.  The  whey 
separates  from  the  curd,  and  the  former  is  better  than  shortening  in 
bread. 

Take  a  cup  of  cream  off  the  milk  pans  every  morning  when  you 
make  bread  ;  it  will  make  the  bread  moist,  white  and  delicate,  and  you 
will  hardly  miss  it  from  the  cream. 

To  beat  the  Whites  of  Eggs  quickly,  put  in  a  pinch  of  salt.  The 
cooler  the  eggs  the  quicker  they  will  froth.  Salt  cools  and  also  freshens 
them. 

In  boiUng  eggs  hard  put  them  in  boiling  water  ten  minutes,  and  then 
put  them  in  cold  water.     It  will  prevent  the  yolks  from  coloring  black. 

In  icing  cakes,  dip  the  knife  frequently  into  cold  water. 

Bread. — As  far  as  it  is  possible,  have  bits  of  bread  eaten  before  they 
become  hard.  Spread  those  that  are  not  eaten,  and  let  them  dry,  to  be 
pounded  for  puddings,  or  soaked  for  brewis.  Brewis  is  made  of  crusts 
and  dry  pieces  of  bread,  soaked  a  good  while  in  hot  milk,  mashed, 
salted  and  buttered  like*toast.  Above  all,  do  not  let  crusts  accumulate 
in  such  quantities  that  they  cannot  be  used.  The  water  used  in  mixing 
bread  must  be  tepid  hot.     If  it  is  too  hot  the  loaves  will  be  full  of  holes. 

If  you  wish  to  do  away  with  the  use  of  grease  on  the  griddle  for 
baking  cakes,  have  the  ordinary  iron  griddle  ground  smooth  on  a  grind- 
stone and  rubbed  off  with  a  piece  of  fine  sandpaper  wrapped  round  a 
block  of  wood.     This  is  much  better  than  a  soapstone  griddle. 

The  Lemon  Syrup  bought  at  stores  can  be   made  at  home   much 


196  HOUSE-KEEPING, 

cheaper.  Take  a  pound  of  Havana  sugar,  boil  it  in  water  down  to  a 
quart,  drop  in  the  white  of  an  ^gg  to  clarify  it,  strain  it,  add  one-quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  tartaric  or  citric  acid.  If  you  do  not  find  it  sour  enough 
after  it  has  stood  two  or  three  days,  add  more  of  the  acid.  A  few 
drops  of  oil  of  lemon  improve  it. 

If  you  wish  to  clarify  sugar  and  water  that  you  are  about  to  boil,  it 
is  well  to  stir  in  the  white  of  an  ^<gg,  while  cold  ;  if  put  in  after  it  boils, 
the  ^g%  is  apt  to  get  hardened  before  it  can  do  any  good. 

Tea  should  not  be  infused  for  more  than  seven  minutes.  Have  the 
water  boiling,  and  use  a  teaspoonful  of  tea  for  each  person  and  one 
over.  Put  the  tea  in  the  pot,  pour  the  boiling  water  over  it  and  let  it 
stand  for  seven  minutes.  If  it  is  allowed  to  stand,  the  tannin  in  the 
tea  is  drawn  out,  and  dyspepsia  is  the  result. 

A  French  chemist  asserts  that  if  tea  be  ground  like  coffee  immedi- 
ately before  hot  water  is  poured  upon  it,  it  will  yield  nearly  double  the 
amount  of  its  exhilarating  qualities. 

A  few  egg-shells  put  in  the  coffee-pot,  with  half  a  cup  of  cold  water, 
shaken  well,  the  coffee  added,  and  then  the  hot  water,  will  settle  it  as 
clear  as  a  whole  ^gg. 

The  white  of  one  ^g%,  beaten  to  a  froth  with  a  little  butter,  is  a  good 
substitute  for  cream  in  coffee. 

Mustard  should  be  mixed  with  water  that  has  been  boiled  and 
allowed  to  cool.  Hot  water  destroys  its  essential  qualities,  and  raw, 
cold  water  might  cause  it  to  ferment.  Put  the  mustard  in  a  cup  with  a 
small  pinch  of  salt  and  mix  with  it  very  gradually  sufificient  boiling 
water  to  make  it  drop  from  the  spoon  without  becoming  watery. 

To  make  Macaroni  tender,  put  it  in  cold  water  and  bring  it  to  a  boil. 
It  will  then  be  much  more  tender  than  if  put  into  hot  water  or  stewed 
in  milk. 

Lemons  may  be  kept  fresh  a  long  time  by  putting  them  into  a  jar  of 
water  and  changing  the  water  every  morning. 

A  small  spoonful  of  molasses  added  to  buckwheat  batter  each  morn- 
ing will    make  the  cakes  tem*ptingly  brown. 

A  spoonful  of  sugar,  added  to  dried  corn  when  seasoning,  improves  it. 

When  molasses  is  used  in  cooking  it  is  an  improvement  to  boil  and 
skim  it  before  you  use  it.  It  takes  out  the  unpleasant,  raw  taste,  and 
makes  it  almost  as  good  as  sugar. 

Cheese  is  very  nice  for  the  table  grated. 

Salt  provisions  of  whatever  kind  are  said  to  lose  more  of  their  salt- 
ness  by  being  soaked  in  sea  water  than  in  fresh. 

Cut  hot  bread  or  cake  with  a  hot  knife,  and  it  will  not  be  clammy. 

To  make  Welsh  rarebit,  fresh  cheese  is  cut  into  slices,  put  upon  but- 
tered toast  and  laid  in  a  cheese  toaster  until  melted. 

II  half  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  is  added  to  the  dark  portion  of 
marble  cake  it  improves  it. 


SPRING  HOUSE-CLEANING.  197 

When  anything  is  accidentally  made  too  salt,  it  can  be  counteracted 
by  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

A  few  dried  or  preserved  cherries,  with  stones  out,  are  the  very  best 
thing  possible  to  garnish  sweet  dishes. 

If  your  coal  fire  is  low,  throw  on  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  it  will 
help  it  very  much. 

Many  Soups  are  better  on  the  day  after  they  are  made,  provided  they 
are  not  warmed  too  quickly,  or  left  too  long  over  the  fire,  after  they 
have  become  hot. 

Apple  pips  impart  a  fine  flavor  to  tarts  and  dumplings. 

Boiled  Fowl  wth  sauce,  over  which  is  grated  the  yolks  of  eggs,  is  a 
magnificent  dish  for  luncheon. 

Fish  may  be  scaled  much  easier  by  dipping  them  in  boiling  water  for 
a  minute. 

SPRING  HOUSE-CLEANING. 

Now  is  the  time  to  wash,  or  destroy  what  cannot  be  renovated,  so  as 
to  have  everything  neat  and  clean.  Banish  the  moss,  ferns,  autumn 
leaves  and  grasses,  that  brightened  the  home  in  the  winter  months,  and 
fill  your  vases  with  vines,  flowers,  plants  and  living  things,  instead  of 
the  dead  ones,  that  are  pretty  in  winter,  but  not  fresh  enough  for  sum- 
mer, when  all  is  life,  freshness  and  beauty.  Clean  out  the  cellars, 
closets,  sinks,  backyards  and  sheds.  Burn  all  the  refuse ;  sprinkle  chlo- 
ride of  Hme  in  the  damp  places,  but  keep  them  dry  as  possible,  and 
you  will  avoid  diphtheria  and  malarial  fevers. 

The  best  place  to  commence  cleaning  is  in  the  attic,  and  then  move 
downward,  taking  one  room  at  a  time ;  next  the  halls,  cellar  and  door- 
yard.  Don't  from  year  to  year  store  away  things  in  the  hope  of  using 
them  some  time,  or  "once  in  seven  years,"  according  to  the  old  saying, 
but  give  them  away  where  they  will  do  good  and  be  of  service  to  some 
needy  and  deserving  person.  Give  away  the  old  shoes,  clothes,  books, 
and  newspapers ;  the  latter  will  gladden  the  invalid's  heart  and  make 
the  children's  eyes  glisten  with  delight.  When  it  comes  moving  day 
there  are  many  things  which  are  hardly  worth  moving,  and  it  is  much 
better  to  give  away  every  cast-off  article  in  the  house. 

Closets  and  Cupboards  should  be  well  ventilated,  and  this  is  a  defect 
— ill-ventilation — that  but  few  try  to  remedy,  or  even  think  of.  This 
can  be  remedied,  however,  in  a  very  simple  way.  If  possible,  have  per- 
forations made  through  the  back  of  the  closet,  and  a  few  in  the  door ; 
when  the  wall  of  the  closet  cannot  be  perforated,  bore  holes  freely  in 
the  door  at  the  top  and  bottom.  To  prevent  dampness,  with  the  accom- 
panying unpleasantness  and  injurious  effects  of  mildew  in  cupboards,  a 
tray  of  quicklime  should  be  kept  and  changed  from  time  to  time  as  the 
lime  becomes  slaked.  This  remedy  will  also  be  found  useful  in  safes 
or  muniment  rooms,  the  damp  air  of  which  is  often  destructive  to  valu- 
able deeds  and  other  contents. 


198  HOUSE-KEEPING. 

If  Wall  Paper  is  not  to  be  renewed,  it  can  be  made  to  look  almost 
as  well  as  new.  Tie  a  large  piece  of  clean,  white  cloth  over  a  broom, 
and  brush  the  wall  down  well.  Then  take  a  stale  loaf  of  bread,  cut  it 
open  and  rub  the  soft  side  all  over  the  paper.  Be  sure  and  rub  down- 
ward. It  will  also  remove  spots  of  lime  or  whitewash.  If  plaster  is 
broken  off  in  spots,  mix  equal  parts  scouring  sand  and  plaster  of  Paris, 
into  paste  with  water,  and  fill  up  the  places,  using  a  common  kitchen 
knife  to  smooth  it  off.  It  will  dry  quickly,  and  pieces  of  fresh  paper  can 
be  fitted  in. 

Beds  and  Bedding  should  all  be  taken  down  and  out,  one  at  a  time. 
Mattresses  should  be  at  least  thoroughly  beaten,  sunned  and  aired.  All 
unpainted  parts  of  bedsteads  should  be  washed  with  strong  soap-suds, 
then  given  a  thorough  washing  with  boiling  hot  salt  and  water;  or 
alum  water  is  still  better.  A  small  paint  brush  is  an  excellent  thing 
with  which  to  apply  the  brine  to  the  slats  and  corners  of  bedsteads  and 
spring  beds.  The  latter  should  be  well  brushed  out,  and  if  upholstered 
they  should  be  turned  over  and  dusted  thoroughly  with  a  dampened 
cloth.  If  there  is  a  hint  of  the  horrible  bug  that  infests  so  many  of 
the  rented  houses,  take  an  ounce  of  corrosive  sublimate  to  a  quart  of 
alcohol.  A  small  can  (such  as  are  used  on  sewing  machines  ,  is  the 
best  thing  for  the  purpose,  but  ever}^  part  of  the  wood  and  floor  must 
be  dry.  Or  this  :  Pour  boiling  alum  water  into  the  joints  and  crevices 
and  it  is  instant  death.  Wash  the  bedsteads  and  sponge  the  mattresses 
with  it.  Then  scatter  pulverized  borax  in  all  the  crevices  and  corners, 
and  not  an  insect  will  be  seen  or  felt.  Ammonia  is  also  good  and  kills 
the  eggs  as  well  as  insects.  All  painted  furniture  should  be  washed  in 
suds,  not  too  hot. 

When  Mattresses  and  Feather  Beds  are  soiled,  mix  equal  quantities 
of  soft  soap  and  pulverized  wheat  starch  into  a  soft  paste  and  rub  it 
thoroughly  into  the  spot.  Let  it  dr^'  in  the  sun  ;  then  scrape  off  the 
paste  and  wash  it  off  with  a  sponge.  If  it  does  not  look  clean  when 
it  is  dry,  apply  it  again.  If  feather  beds  have  been  in  use  some  years 
without  being  renovated,  put  them  on  the  grass  when  the  rain  pours 
heavily,  and  let  them  become  thoroughly  wetted.  Then  turn  on  the 
other  side  and  let  the  ticking  have  a  good  soaking.  When  the  sun 
shines  brightly  it  will  dry  quickly.  Let  it  He  out  several  days,  bringing 
it  in  at  night  to  keep  it  from  the  dews.  When  perfectly  dry,  hang  it  on 
a  strong  line  and  beat  it  as  you  would  a  carpet  until  all  the  dust  is  out 
of  it,  and  you  will  have  a  clean,  sweet  bed,  as  well  repaired  as  if  the 
feathers  had  been  run  through  a  machine  with  a  steaming  apparatus 
attached.  If  the  hair  mattresses  are  lumpy,  rip  them  open,  take  out 
the  hair  and  pull  them  apart  thoroughly. 

After  a  Carpet  has  been  well  beaten  and  the  floor  perfectly  dry,  it  can 
b  '  nailed  down  tightly,  and  then  the  soiled  portions  can  be  cleaned  with 
two  quarts  of  cold  water  with  a  bullock's  gall  dissolved  in  it.     Put  on 


SPRING  HOUSE-CLEANING.  199 

with  a  soft  brush  and  wipe  dry  with  a  clean  cloth.  Potter's  clay  mixed 
as  a  paste  (thick)  with  water  and  spread  on  with  a  knife,  wet,  will  clean 
them  nicely.  Cover  over  with  several  thicknesses  of  heavy  brown 
paper,  leaving  it  for  a  day  or  two;  then  brush  off.  If  not  entirely 
removed,  apply  again.  It  never  fails  when  properly  used.  If  spots  of 
grease  are  upon  them,  saturate  the  spot  with  spirits  of  turpentine  and 
let  it  remain  several  hours ;  then  rub  it  between  the  hands.  It  will 
crumble  away  without  injuring  the  color  or  texture.  When  a  color  has 
been  destroyed  by  acid  (unless  some  shade  of  red),  ammonia  will  neu- 
tralize the  acid,  and  chloroform  will  restore  the  original  color.  A  solu- 
tion of  oxalic  acid  crystals,  one  part  by  measure  to  eight  of  soft  water, 
will  entirely  remove  dry  ink  stains.  The  goods  must  be  afterwards 
thoroughly  washed,  as  the  acid  destroys  the  cloth.  If  a  carpet  is  thick, 
like  those  of  Brussels  or  Axminster,  and  is  much  soiled,  take  a  clean 
mop  and  dip  it  into  warmish  water,  to  which  one  teaspoonful  of  ammo- 
nia has  been  added  to  each  quart.  Wring  out  the  mop  as  dry  as 
possible,  and  rub  it  over  the  carpet  in  breadths.  When  the  water 
becomes  soiled,  take  a  fresh  supply. 

Upholstered  Furniture  should  be  well  beaten  with  small  switches  to 
remove  dust,  and  if  buttons  are  used,  a  hairpin  is  the  best  to  get  the 
dirt  from  beneath  them.  If  they  show  any  appearance  of  being  moth- 
eaten,  take  them  out  in  the  door  yard  and  saturate  them  thoroughly 
with  benzine  or  gasoline  (this  method  is  used  in  upholstering  establish- 
ments), and  the  odor  will  quickly  disappear  and  leave  no  trace.  If  they 
are  covered  with  hair  cloth  it  may  be  cleaned  by  wiping  well  with  a 
clean  wet  cloth. 

Benzine  will  eradicate  moths  in  the  carpets  the  same  as  in  furniture. 
Avoid  using  it  near  the  fire,  or  in  a  room  where  a  light  is  burning. 
Alum  is  also  certain  death  to  all  insects.  Dissolve  it  in  proportion  of 
one  tablespoonful  to  a  quart  of  water.  For  the  floors  use  it  scalding 
hot ;  let  it  cool  before  applying  to  the  carpets.  Wring  a  piece  of  flan- 
nel in  it  and  rub  over  each  breadth,  wringing  out  the  cloth  frequently  in 
the  water.  It  will  not  injure  the  colors ;  if  anything,  it  will  make  the 
hues  brighter.  A  little  pulverized  alum  should  also  be  sprinkled  just 
under  the  edges  and  in  the  troublesome  corners,  and  then  it  will  not  be 
necessary  to  repeat  the  process  with  the  flannel  cloth  and  liquid. 

Weak  Tea  is  the  best  thing  to  clean  and  brighten  all  dark  varnished 
paint ;  and  milk  and  water,  or  whiting  and  water,  to  clean  white  paint. 
A  piece  of  flannel  or  thick  Canton  flannel  makes  the  best  cloth.  Wet 
the  flannel,  squeeze  it  dry,  moisten  the  whiting  and  rub  the  paint  until 
it  shines.  Wash  off  with  a  soft  linen  cloth,  wet  slightly  in  cold  water. 
Or  this  :  Provide  a  plate  with  some  of  the  best  whiting  to  be  had,  and 
have  ready  clean,  warm  water  and  a  piece  of  flannel,  which  dip  into  the 
water  and   squeeze  nearly  dry ;    then   take  as  much  whiting  as  will 


200  HOUSE-KEEPING. 

adhere  to  it ;  apply  it  to  the  painted  surface,  when  a  little  rubbing  will 
remove  any  dirt  or  grease,  after  which  wash  the  part  well  with  clean 
water,  rubbing  it  with  a  soft  chamois.  Paint  thus  cleaned  looks  as  well 
as  when  first  laid  on,  without  any  injury  to  the  most  delicate  colors. 

To  Wash  the  Windows,  have  a  pail  partly  filled  with  tepid  water 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  borax — also  one  of  ammonii;  have  a 
small  chamois  skin  dipped  into  the  water  to  wash  the  windows  ;  then 
with  a  dry  one  rub  the  window  dry  and  polish.  In  this  w-ay  windows 
may  be  cleaned  in  a  very  few  minutes,  and  not  wet  the  carpets  or  tire 
the  person. 

To  Clean  Gas  Chandeliers :  If  they  are  gilded,  clean  them  in  the 
same  way  as  gilded  picture  frames ;  if  lacquered,  dip  a  soft  flannel  into 
equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  stale  beer,  and  rub  it  over  lightly.  If  the 
chimneys  and  globes  are  much  dimmed,  dip  a  paper  into  the  spirits  of 
wine  and  rub  over  them,  and  then  polish  with  newspaper.  Ammonia 
is  excellent  for  washing  glasses,  windows  or  mirrors.  Use  a  table- 
spoonful  to  a  quart  of  clear  water  or  soap-suds. 

To  Clean  Looking-glasses,  first  wash  the  glass  all  over  with  luke- 
warm soap-suds  and  a  sponge.  When  dry,  rub  it  bright  with  a  buck- 
skin and  a  little  prepared  chalk,  finely  powdered.  To  brighten  gilt 
frames,  take  sufficient  flowers  of  sulphur  to  give  a  golden  tinge  to  one 
and  one-half  pints  of  water;  boil  in  this  water  four  or  five  onions,  strain^ 
and,  when  cold,  wash  with  a  soft  brush  any  part  that  requires  restoring. 
When  dry  it  will  come  out  as  good  as  new.  This  will  also  prevent  the 
flies  from  settling  upon  the  gilding.  To  clean  black  walnut  frames,, 
wash  them  over  lightly  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  cold  tea. 

When  Chromos  Require  Cleaning,  remove  all  dust  with  a  feather 
brush,  and  wipe  carefully  with  a  soft  chamois  skin  or  fine  linen  cloth, 
very  slightly  dampened.  If  a  little  spotted  or  dull,  a  drop  of  oil  on  the 
chamois  will  remove  the  blemish.  If  the  varnish  is  dull  or  rubbed  off, 
re-varnish  with  thin  mastic  varnish.  Do  not  hang  paintings  or  chromos 
in  a  dark  room,  but  never  expose  them  to  the  direct  rays  of  the  sun. 
To  clean  an  oil  painting  that  is  injured  by  dust,  take  the  picture  out  of 
the  frame,  lay  a  coarse  towel  over  it  for  ten  or  fourteen  days,  keep  it 
continually  wet  until  it  has  drawn  out  all  the  dirt ;  pass  some  linseed 
oil,  which  has  been  a  long  time  seasoning,  over  it,  in  the  sunlight,  to 
purify  it,  and  the  picture  will  be  as  good  as  new. 

Marble  may  be  cleaned  by  mixing  up  a  quantity  of  the  strongest  soap 
lyes  with  quicklime  to  the  consistency  of  milk  and  laying  it  on  the 
marble  for  twenty-four  hours;  clean  it  afterwards  with  soap-suds ;  here 
is  another — mix  with  a  quarter  pint  of  soap  lyes,  half  a  gill  of  turpen- 
tine, sufficient  pipe-clay  and  bullock's  gall  to  make  the  whole  into  a 
thick  paste ;  apply  with  a  soft  brush,  and  when  dry,  a  day  or  two  after, 
rub  off  with  a  soft  rag.     Or  take  two  parts  of  soda,   one  of  pumice- 


SPRING  HOUSE-CLEANING.  201 

stone,  and  one  of  fine  chalk,  sift  through  a  sieve,  make  into  a  paste  with 
water,  rub  over  the  marble,  then  wash  with  soap  and  water.  All  of 
these  are  good,  and  one  can  select  the  one  most  convenient  to  them- 
selves. 

If  there  are  iron  stains  upon  marble,  they  can  be  taken  out  by  moist- 
ening them  with  vitriol  or  oxalic  acid.  If  they  do  not  come  out  readily, 
leave  the  acid  on  for  half  an  hour.  Grease  spots  can  be  taken  out  by 
spreading  on  them  a  paste  made  of  lime,  pearl-ash  and  water,  leaving  it 
for  a  few  hours,  when  it  must  be  renewed  if  it  has  not  accomplished  its 
work.  If  there  is  an  uncovered  marble  hearth  in  the  room  it  should  be 
washed  clean  in  soap-suds  and  then  wiped  dry.  After  that  it  should  be 
rubbed  with  a  flannel  dipped  in  oil — linseed  oil  is  the  best — and  wiped 
with  a  clean  cloth. 

To  Remove  Grease  from  Books,  lay  upon  the  spot  a  little  magnesia 
or  powdered  chalk,  and  under  it  the  same  ;  set  on  it  a  warm  flat  iron, 
and,  as  soon  as  the  grease  is  melted,  it  will  be  all  absorbed,  and  leave 
the  paper  clean, 

To  clean  and  restore  the  elasticity  of  cane  chair  bottoms,  turn  the 
chair  bottom  upward,  and  with  hot  water  and  a  sponge  wash  the  cane ; 
wash  well,  so  that  it  is  well  soaked  ;  should  it  be  dirty  use  soap  ;  let  it 
dry  in  the  air,  and  it  will  be  as  tight  and  firm  as  new,  provided  the 
canes  are  not  broken.  Matting  can  be  cleaned  in  the  same  way,  or  with 
salt  and  water. 

To  Clean  the  Silverware  take  two  spoonfuls  of  ammonia,  one  of 
sal  soda,  and  a  small  piece  of  soap ;  put  in  a  pint  of  rain  water;  put 
pieces  of  silver  in  and  set  on  the  ^tove  till  it  comes  to  a  boil ;  or,  if  ver\- 
dirty,  boil  them  until  they  are  clean,  then  rinse  in  clean  water,  wipe  dry, 
and  rub  with  chamois  skin. 

To  Clean  Brass,  rub  with  strong  vinegar ;  wash  off  with  hot  water 
to  remove  the  acid,  and  finish  with  dry  whiting ;  another  equally  as  good 
is  to  take  the  water  potatoes  have  been  boiled  in  (peels  and  all)  ;  strain 
the  water  and  wash  the  brass  in  it. 

Rub  Steel  with  equal  parts  of  sweet  oil  and  turpentine,  and  thicken  it 
to  a  paste  with  emery  powder.  Rub  it  on  the  steel  with  a  bit  of  flan- 
nel, and  rub  dry  with  chamois  leather.  If  all  the  rust  has  not  disap- 
peared, use  emery  powder  dry  on  a  flannel.  To  remove  rust  from 
knives,  cover  them  with  sweet  oil,  well  rubbed  on,  and  after  two  days 
take  a  lump  of  fresh  lime  and  rub  till  the  rust  disappears. 

Hartshorn,  diluted  with  one-third  water,  will  remove  mildew  stains  ; 
or  this  is  good — mix  soft  soap  with  starch  powdered ;  half  the  quantity 
of  salt  and  a  piece  of  lemon,  and  lay  it  on  both  sides  with  a  paint  brush  ; 
let  it  be  in  the  open  air — the  sun  is  preferred — till  the  stain  is  removed. 

For  Furniture  Polish,  take  two  parts  sweet  oil,  one  part  alcohol ; 
shake  well  before  using.  Apply  with  soft  cotton  cloth  and  rub  dry,  the 
more  rubbing  the  better.     If  this  mixture  has  stood  for  some  time  add 


202  HO  USE-KEEPING. 

more  alcohol.  This  will  clean  and  improve  the  appearance  of  any  kind 
of  furniture.  Or,  equal  proportions  of  turpentine,  linseed  oil,  and 
vinegar,  thoroughly  applied  and  then  rubbed  with  flannel. 

Winter  Flannels  that  are  to  be  put  away  for  the  summer,  are  often 
found  to  be  yellow  and  ugly  looking  in  the  spring,  but  they  can  be 
improved  in  color  if  washed  in  this  way :  Put  half  a  pound  of  good  bar 
soap,  shaven  up  fine,  into  four  gallons  of  warm  (not  boiling)  water,  and 
add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  aqua  ammonia  and  same  quantity  of  tur- 
pentine ;  put  in  the  flannels  and  dip  them  up  and  down  in  the  water  for 
fifteen  minutes ;  then  rinse  in  clear  bluing  water. 

In  the  Kitchen  all  the  pans  and  tinware  should  be  boiled  in  a  boiler 
of  clean  suds,  and  afterward  dried  and  polished.  Kettles  and  all  the 
iron  ware  should  have  a  good  cleaning,  and  rubbing  with  sand.  Sinks, 
drains,  and  all  places  that  are  in  danger  of  becoming  sour  or  impure, 
should  be  thoroughly  cleansed  with  carbolic  acid  and  water.  Copperas 
and  chloride  of  lime  are  good  disinfectants. 

Last,  but  not  least,  clea7i  the  cellars.  Wash  the  walls  and  beams 
with  a  good  coat  of  whitewash,  in  which  enough  copperas  has  been  dis- 
solved to  make  it  yellow  ;  then  scatter  copperas  all  over  the  floor  and  in 
the  corners.  This  will  make  the  cellar  perfectly  sweet  and  it  will  keep 
so  all  summer,  if  care  is  taken  after  it  is  once  clean.  The  cellar  should 
be  opened  during  the  middle  part  of  the  day  and  a  good  circulation  of 
air  kept  through  it  all  the  time,  as  a  close  pent  up  cellar  will  keep  a 
house  unhealthy. 

CLEANING  WALLS. 

Before  putting  fresh  paper  on  walls  the  old  paper  should  be  carefully 
removed  by  wetting  it  with  saleratus  water,  when  it  will  fall  off  easily. 
The  walls  should  be  brushed  over  with  a  weak  solution  of  carbolic 
acid,  which  will  drive  away  insects  and  sweeten  the  walls.  The 
Chinese  often  remove  plaster  from  old  houses  and  replace  it  with  new, 
and  are  paid  for  their  trouble  in  the  value  of  the  old  plaster  for  fertiliz- 
ing purposes. 

If  there  is  too  much  whitening  on  the  wall,  take  a  scraper  about 
three  inches  wide,  with  handle;  wet  the  wall  with  clean  water  and 
scrape.  After  getting  off  all  the  old  whitening,  give  the  wall  a  thin  coat 
of  glue  sizing,  made  by  dissolving  common  glue  in  water.  A  little 
alum  in  the  paste  will  help  it  greatly. 

Or  to  one  gallon  of  soft  water  use  one  pint  of  rye  flour,  half  an  ounce 
of  white  glue  and  one  ounce  of  alum.  The  glue  and  alum  are  to  be  dis- 
solved, of  course,  and  the  flour  is  put  into  the  water  while  cold,  and  put 
over  the  fire  and  stirred  until  boiling  hot ;  pour  in  the  solutions  men- 
tioned. Scrub  the  wait  thoroughly  with  a  stiff  broom,  dust  off,  and  it 
is  ready  for  papering.  If  the  paste  in  cooling  becomes  thick,  thin  it 
with  boiling  soft  water  until  very  thin. 


MO  TH  EX  TERM  IN  A  TORS.  203 


A  GOOD  AND  CHEAP  WHITEWASH. 

Few  people  know  how  easily  whitewash  is  made  and  how  valuable  it 
is  when  properly  applied.  It  not  only  prevents  the  decay  of  wood,  but 
is  greatly  conducive  to  the  healthfulness  of  buildings,  whether  wood  or 
stone.  Out-buildings  and  fences,  when  not  painted,  should  be  supplied 
once  or  twice  a  year  with  a  good  coat  of  whitewash,  which  should  be 
prepared  in  the  following  way:  Take  a  clean,  water-tight  barrel  or 
other  suitable  cask,  and  put  into  it  about  half  a  bushel  of  lime ;  slack  it 
by  pouring  water  over  it  boiling  hot,  and  put  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
water  to  cover  it  five  inches  deep,  and  stir  it  briskly  till  thoroughly 
slackened ;  when  the  slackening  has  been  thoroughly  effected,  dissolve 
it  in  water  and  add  two  pounds  of  sulphate  of  zinc  and  common  salt. 
These  will  cause  the  wash  to  harden  and  prevent  the  cracking,  which 
gives  an  unseemly  appearance  to  the  work.  If  desirable  a  beautiful 
cream  color  may  be  given  to  the  above  wash  by  adding  three  pounds  of 
yellow  ochre,  or  a  good  pearl  by  lead,  lamp,  vine  or  ivy  black.  For 
fawn  color  add  four  pounds  of  umber ;  Turkish  or  American — the  latter 
is  the  cheapest — one  pound  of  Indian  red,  and  one  pound  of  common 
lamp-black.. 

MOTH  EXTERMINATORS. 

The  worst  month  for  moths  is  said  to  be  June,  and  before  that  time 
all  articles  likely  to  be  molested  by  them  should  be  securely  packed 
away.  Fortunately  furs,  which  are  the  most  difficult  thing  to  protect 
from  the  moth,  are  also  the  first  which  may  be  laid  aside  for  the  season. 
Before  this  is  done  have  them  beaten  thoroughly,  /.  e.,  whipped  well 
with  a  small  rattan,  which  is  what  furriers  use  for  the  same  purpose. 
Then  examine  the  felt  carefully,  and  where  you  find  the  hairs  matted 
tightly  together,  part  them  and  wet  the  spot  thoroughly,  yet  daintily,  so 
as  not  to  touch  the  adjacent  hair,  with  spirits  of  ammonia.  After  this, 
fold  the  garment,  with  layers  of  newspapers  between  each  fold,  and  gum 
camphor  sprinkled  on  the  fur ;  and,  finally,  either  sew  the  bundle  in  an 
old  sheet  or  wrap  it  in  newspapers,  pasting  the  edges.  If  this  is  done 
carefully  and  speedily,  you  may  rely  with  comparative  certainty  that 
your  goods  are  beyond  reach  of  the  small  destroyer.  The  best  moth- 
proof chests  are  those  made  of  red  cedar,  to  the  odor  of  which  the 
insect  has  an  unconquerable  aversion,  and  the  camphor-wood  chests 
which  seamen  bring  from  the  East  Indies.  Cedar  packing  trunks  are 
made  like  the  ordinary  packing  trunk,  lined  with  a  thin  veneering  of 
cedar,  which,  though  less  than  the  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  fits  closely 
in  every  crack  and  corner,  and  renders  the  trunk  at  once  moth-proof 
and  air-tight.  No  camphor  is  needed  in  such  a  chest ;  only  be  careful 
to  see  that  no  traces  of  moths  are  in  the  garments  before  packing ; 
and  lay  away  smoothly  with  newspaper  layers  between  each  stratum 


204  HOUSE-KEEPING. 

of  clothes  as  an  additional  precaution.  Paper  barrels  with  close- 
fitting  heads  form  another  effectually  moth-proof  case.  The  paper 
of  which  these  are  made  is  thoroughly  impregnated  with  coal  tar, 
and  whatever  is  put  into  them  is  practically  safe  from  the  incur- 
sion of  the  moth  miller.  Tar  paper  is  sold  by  the  sheet  as  a  moth 
preventive,  and  any  one  may  make  for  herself  a  moth-proof  chest 
by  lining  an  ordinary  packing-box  with  this  paper,  putting  a  layer 
also  under  the  lid.  The  odor  is  overpowering,  and  no  right-minded 
moth  will  crawl  over  it  in  search  of  a  place  to  deposit  her  eggs.  No- 
matter  how  many  cracks  and  nail  holes  there  may  be  in  the  box,  if  the 
tar  paper  lines  them  all  its  contents  are  safe.  But  inside  of  the  lining 
of  tar  paper  there  should  be  one  of  newspapers  of  several  sheets  thick, 
since  in  warm  weather  especially  the  black  tar  paper  stains  badly.  Com- 
mon newspaper  is  also  a  valuable  moth  preventive.  The  moth  miller 
is  said  to  dislike  printer's  ink,  and  while  the  paper  opposes  no  obstruc- 
tion to  the  ravages  of  moths  already  in  the  garment,  it  will  if  unbroken 
and  pasted  at  the  edges,  effectually  keep  them  out.  For  additional 
security  it  is  wiser  to  lay  the  parcel  away  in  a  closed  trunk,  but  where 
packing  chests  run  short,  it  is  generally  safe  to  put  them  on  shelves  in  a 
mouse-proof  closet,  the  danger  being  that  the  mice  may  cut  the  paper, 
and  the  moth  miller  thus  affect  an  entrance.  In  the  case  of  valuable 
furs  about  which  there  is  cause  for  uneasiness,  examine  them  three 
weeks  after  storing.  The  eggs  of  the  moth  miller  hatch  out  in  from 
fifteen  to  twenty  days,  and  the  moth  at  once  begins  its  destructive  work. 
Therefore,  by  this  second  inspection,  assurance  may  be  made  doubly 
sure. 

Carpets  keep  best  on  the  floors  with  crash  over  them  and  bits  of 
camphor  under  the  edges.  It  is  where  the  carpet  is  folded  under,  where 
the  foot  does  not  tread,  and  under  heavy  pieces  of  furniture  that  the 
moth  usually  makes  its  nest,  and  where  it  must  be  looked  for.  A  hot 
flat-iron  and  a  wet  cloth  is  sufficient  to  destroy  them  in  an  ingrain  and 
Brussels  carpet,  pressing  the  carpet  with  the  iron  through  the  wet 
cloth ;  but  for  a  Wilton  or  Axminster,  the  one  safe  and  speedy  method 
is  to  send  it  to  the  steam-cleaner,  whose  process  will  effectually  destroy 
the  moths.  Next  to  this  is  the  use  of  the  hot  iron  and  wet  cloth,  which 
must  be  applied  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  carpet,  since  the  thick  pile  on 
the  right  side  is  not  easily  penetrated  by  the  heat.  If  carpets  are  taken 
up  during  the  summer  it  is  wiser  not  to  beat  them  before  putting  them 
away,  provided,  of  course,  that  there  are  no  moths  in  them.  Moths  can 
also  be  kept  out  of  carpets  by  having  the  floor  washed  in  strong  suds,  in 
which  borax  has  been  dissolved  at  the  rate  of  a  tablespoonful  to  a  pail 
of  water,  and  after  dusting  black  pepper  on  the  edges  tack  the  carpet 
down  again.  By  this  means  moths  are  kept  away,  and  as  corners  and 
folds  are  their  favorite  hiding  places  they  are  searched  out  and  destroyed. 


THE  CARE  OF  CLOTHING.  205 

Ingrain  and  other  carpets  after  being  taken  up  can  be  brightened  in 
color  by  sprinkling  a  pound  or  two  of  salt  over  their  surface  and  sweep- 
ing carefully.  It  is  usual  to  occasionally  wipe  off  the  carpet  with  borax 
water,  using  a  wet  flannel  and  taking  care  not  to  wet  the  carpet  but  only 
dampen  it. 

If  the  moths  are  in  the  furniture,  thoroughly  beat  them  with  sticks, 
and  if  the  goods  are  such  as  it  is  possible  to  do  this,  saturate  with  kero- 
sene. If  furniture,  take  a  sharp  stick  and  get  them  out  of  every  crevice ; 
beat  it  well,  and  if  this  is  done  each  week  they  will  not  do  much  damage. 
Newspapers  under  a  carpet  will  also  keep  out  the  moths.  The  Hnt 
which  accumulates  at  the  head  of  flounces  and  under  the  folds  of  plait- 
ing form  admirable  moth  nests ;  therefore  winter  dresses  should  be 
carefully  dusted  before  putting  away.  Garments  which  are  to  be  made 
over  should  be  ripped  apart ;  they  keep  fresher,  are  easier  to  pack,  may 
be  more  readily  cleaned,  and,  last,  but  not  least,  are  all  ready  for  work 
in  the  fall. 

THE  CARE  OF  CLOTHING. 

A  clothes  brush,  a  wisp  broom,  a  bottle  of  ammonia,  a  sponge,  a 
hand  brush,  a  cake  of  erasive  soap,  a  vial  of  alcohol,  should  form  a 
part  of  ever}^  toilet.  After  all  dust  has  been  removed  from  clothing, 
spots  may  be  taken  out  of  black  cloth  with  the  hand  brush  dipped  in  a 
mixture  of  equal  parts  of  ammonia,  alcohol  and  water.  This  will 
brighten  as  well  as  cleanse.  Benzine  is  useful  in  removing  grease  spots. 
Spots  of  grease  may  be  removed  from  colored  silks  by  putting  on  them 
raw  starch  made  into  a  paste  with  water.  Dust  is  best  removed  from 
silk  by  a  soft  flannel,  from  velvet  with  a  brush  made  specially  for  the 
purpose.  If  hats  and  bonnets  when  taken  from  the  head  are  brushed, 
put  away  in  boxes  and  covered  up,  instead  of  being  laid  down  any- 
where, they  will  last  a  long  time.  Shawls  and  all  articles  that  may  be 
folded  should  be  folded  when  taken  from  the  person  in  their  original 
creases  and  laid  away.  Cloaks  should  be  hung  up  in  place,  gloves 
pulled  out  lengthwise,  wrapped  in  tissue  paper,  arvd  laid  away ;  laces 
smoothed  out  nicely  and  folded,  if  requisite,  so  that  they  will  come  out 
of  the  box  new  and  fresh  when  needed  again.  A  strip  of  old  black 
broadcloth  four  or  five  inches  wide,  rolled  up  tightly  and  sewed  to  keep 
the  roll  in  place,  is  better  than  a  sponge  or  a  cloth  for  cleansing  black 
and  dark-colored  clothes.  Whatever  lint  come  from  it  in  rubbing  is 
black  and  does  not  show.  When  black  cloths  are  washed,  as  they  may 
often  be  previous  to  making  over,  fresh  clean  water  should  be  used,  and 
they  should  be  pressed  on  the  wrong  side  before  being  quite  dry.  If 
washed  in  water  previously  used  for  white  clothing  they  will  be  covered 
with  iint. 

There  are  many  means  of  erasing  grease  spots.  Bread  crumbs 
rubbed  on  the  greasy  spot  will  take  it  out.    Dissolve  in  a  quart  of  water 


206  HOUSE-KEEPING, 

four  ounces  of  castile  soap,  add  four  ounces  of  ammonia  waiter  and  an 
ounce  of  ether  and  glycerine.  The  mixture  should  be  bottled  as  soon 
as  made  and  should  be  kept  from  the  air,  as  the  ammonia  and  ether 
are  very  volatile  and  will  soon  escape  if  the  bottle  is  not  kept  tightly 
corked.  Another  method  is  to  put  on  powder  of  French  chalk  and 
place  a  piece  of  blotting  paper  over  it ;  then  pass  a  hot  iron  over  the 
blotting  paper.  You  can  get  any  amount  of  oil  or  grease  off  a  carpet 
or  woolen  stuff,  by  applying  dry  buckwheat  plentifully  and  faithfully. 
Alcohol  and  spirits  of  turpentine  will  remove  tallow  and  oil  from  gar- 
ments if  applied  before  the  oil  has  become  dry  and  hard.  Spirits  of  tur- 
pentine will  clean  greasy  coat  collars  or  lapels.  A  teaspoonful  of 
ammonia  and  alcohol,  well  mixed,  will  remove  grease;  wet  a  bit  of 
woolen  cloth  or  soft  sponge  in  it  and  the  grease,  if  freshly  dropped, 
will  disappear.  If  the  spot  is  of  long  standing  it  may  require  several 
applications.  In  woolen  or  cotton  the  spot  may  be  rubbed  when  the 
liquid  is  applied,  and  also  in  black  silk,  though  not  hard.  But  with 
light  or  colored  silk,  wet  the  spot  with  the  cloth  or  sponge  with  which 
the  ammonia  is  put  on,  patting  it  lightly.  Rubbing  silk,  particularly 
colored  silk,  is  apt  to  leave  a  whitish  spot  almost  as  bad  looking  as  the 
grease  spot. 

HUSK  MATS  AND  BEDS. 

Select  the  husks  carefully,  taking  the  best  and  strongest  ones  and  not 
using  the  soft  inside  ones.  Scald  a  quantity  at  a  time  with  hot  water 
to  make  them  soft  and  pliable,  squeezing  them  out  well  when  ready  to 
plait  them.  It  is  best  always  for  two  to  work  at  it,  as  one  can  pick  out 
the  husks  and  bunch  them  while  the  other  plaits  them  together.  Put 
three  husks  in  a  bunch,  pulling  the  thick  lower  ends  evenly  together. 
To  begin  plaiting,  take  three  rather  small  bunches,  and  placing  the  thick 
ends  even,  tie  them  tightly  together  about  two  inches  below.  Plait 
them  over  each  way  once,  and  put  another  bunch  in ;  plait  over  from 
each  side  again,  and  add  another  bunch,  leaving  the  thick  ends  loose 
about  two  inches  every  time — that  is,  in  plaiting  the  bunches  in,  the 
thick  ends  must  be  laid  that  far  back  from  where  the  bunch  will  be 
fastened  in  by  the  plait.  When  enough  has  been  plaited  for  a  mat,  the 
ends  must  be  tied  tightly  together.  For  sewing  them  have  a  large  bent 
needle  about  five  inches  long,  called  a  saddler's  needle  ;  thread  it  with 
stout  twine,  and  beginning  at  the  first  end  of  the  piece,  shape  it  into  a 
round  or  an  oval  mat.  The  loose  ends  are,  of  course,  for  the  top  of 
the  mat.  After  it  is  sewed  together  the  tops  may  be  slitted  fine  with  a 
fork,  but  it  is  not  essential.  They  must  then  be  dried  thoroughly  on 
both  sides,  after  which,  if  they  have  been  plaited  tightly  and  well  sewed, 
they  may  be  expected  to  do  two  or  three  years'  service. 

Those  who  have  never  slept  on  husk  beds  ought  to  try  it ;  they  are 
clean,  sweet  and  healthy,  and  much  cooler  for  summer  than  a  mat- 


KNITTING,  CROCHET  AND  LACE.  207 

tress.  They  should  be  taken  at  the  time  of  husking  and  stripped  quite 
fine,  dried  in  the  sun  and  put  in  a  ticking  mattress.  These  can  be 
washed  each  year,  and  then  one  is  always  sure  of  a  clean,  sweet  bed. 
Those  who  do  not  live  in  the  country,  and  cannot  make  these  beds 
themselves,  can  purchase  the  husks  at  any  furniture  dealers.  Husks 
are  good  filling  for  divan  pillows,  and  also  make  a  good  cushion  for  the 
couch  itself. 


KNITTING,   CROCHET  AND  LACE. 

INSTRUCTIONS  TO   BEGINNERS. 

The  first  process  is  casting  on.  Hold  the  end  of  the  cotton  between 
the  first  and  the  second  fingers  of  the  left  hand,  bring  it  over  the  thumb 
and  fore  finger  and  bend  the  latter  to  twist  the  cotton  into  a  loop,  bend 
the  needle  in  the  loop  ;  hold  the  cotton  attached  to  the  spool  between  the 
third  and  little  fingers  of  the  right  hand,  and  over  the  point  of  the  fore- 
finger; bring  the  thread  round  the  needle  by  the  slightest  possible 
motion ;  bend  the  needle  towards  you,  and  tighten  the  loop  on  the  left 
hand  finger,  in  letting  it  slip  off  to  form  the  first  stitch.  Now  take  that 
needle  with  the  loop  on  it  in  the  left  hand  and  another  in  the  right. 
Observe  the  position  of  the  hands.  The  left  hand  needle  is  held 
between  the  thumb  and  second  finger,  leaving  the  forefinger  free  to  aid 
in  moving  the  points  of  the  needles.  This  mode  of  using  the  forefinger 
instead  of  employing  it  merely  to  hold  the  needle,  is  the  great  secret  of 
knitting  without  looking  at  the  work,  for  so  extremely  delicate  is  the 
sense  of  touch  in  this  finger  that  it  will,  after  a  little  practice,  enable 
you  to  tell  the  sort  of  stitch  coming  next,  in  the  finest  material,  so  th^ri; 
knitting  becomes  merely  mechanical. 

Insert  the  point  in  the  loop,  bringing  it  behind  the  other  needle,  slip 
the  thread  around  it,  bring  the  point  in  front  and  transfer  the  loop  to 
the  left  hand  needle  without  withdrawing  it  from  the  right  hand.  Repeat 
the  process  for  any  number  of  stitches  required. 

KNITTING  STITCHES. 

Plain  Knitting :  Slip  the  point  of  the  right  hand  needle  in  a  loop, 
bring  the  thread  round  it,  and  with  the  forefinger  push  the  point  of  the 
needle  of  the  loop,  so  that  the  thread  just  twisted  round  forms  a  new 
one  on  the  right  hand. 

Purling :  The  right  hand  needle  is  slipped  in  the  loop  in  front  of 
the  left  hand  one,  and  the  thread,  after  passing  between  the  two,  is 
brought  round  it ;  it  is  then  worked  as  before.     The  thread  is  always 


208  KNITTING,  CROCHET  AND  LACE, 

broug-ht  forward  before  beginning  a  purled  stitch,  unless  particular 
directions  to  the  contrary  are  given. 

The  Mode  of  Making  Stitches :  To  make  one,  merely  bring  the 
thread  in  front  before  knitting,  when,  as  it  passes  over  the  needle,  it 
makes  a  loop ;  to  make  two,  three  or  more,  pass  the  thread  round  the 
needle  in  addition,  once  for  two,  twice  for  three,  and  so  on. 

To  Decrease :  Take  one  stitch  off  without  knitting  ;  knit  one,  then 
slip  the  point  of  the  left  hand  needle  in  the  unknitted  stitch,  and  draw 
it  over  the  other.  It  is  marked  in  directions  D  i.  To  decrease  two  or 
more,  slip  one,  knit  two,  three  or  more  together  as  one,  and  pass  the 
slip  stitch  over. 

The  Way  to  Join  Around:  Four  or  five  needles  are  used  in  round 
work,  such  as  socks,  stockings,  etc.  Cast  on  any  given  number  of 
stitches  on  one  needle,  then  slip  another  needle  in  the  last  stitch  before 
casting  any  on  it ;  repeat  for  any  number.  When  all  are  cast  on,  knit 
the  first  two  stitches  off  on  to  the  end  of  the  last  needle.  One  needle 
is  always  left  unused  in  casting  on  for  a  round. 

The  Way  of  Joining  the  Toe  of  a  Sock,  or  any  similar  thing : 
Divide  all  the  stitches  on  to  two  needles,  hold  both  in  the  left  hand  as 
if  they  were  one,  and  in  knitting  take  a  loop  off  each  one,  which  knit 
together. 

To  Cast  Off :  Knit  two  stitches  with  the  left  hand  needle  ;  draw  the 
first  over  the  second ,  knit  another ;  repeat.  Obsen'^e  that  the  row 
before  the  casting  off  should  never  be  very  tightly  knitted.  . 

To  Knit  Three  Stitches  Together,  so  that  the  center  one  shall  be  in 
front :  Slip  two  off  the  needle  together,  knit  the  third,  and  draw  the 
others  over  together. 

To  Raise  a  Stitch :  Knit  the  bar  of  thread  between  the  two  stiches 
as  one.  The  abbreviations  used  are  K,  knit ;  P,  purl  ;  D,  decrease  ;  K  2 
T,  knit  two  together  ;  P  2  T,  purl  two  together ;  M  i,  make  one.  Take 
care  to  have  needles  and  cotton,  or  wool,  that  are  suitable  to  each  other 
in  size.  The  work  of  the  best  knitter  in  the  world  would  appear  ill 
done  if  the  needles  were  too  fine  or  too  coarse.  In  the  former  case  the 
work  would  be  close  and  thick ;  in  the  latter  it  would  be  too  much  like 
a  cobweb. 

Twist  Stitch  is  made  by  knitting  four  back  part  of  the  loop ;  put  the 
right  needle  in  behind  the  left,  pass  through  the  loop  from  right  to  left 
much  the  same  as  in  purling,  only  in  purling  the  needle  is  passed  through 
front  part  of  loop. 

To  cast  over  :     To  bring  the  cotton  forward  around  needle. 

To  narrow :     Lessen  by  bringing  two  stitches  together. 

To  seam :     To  knit  a  stitch  with  the  cottoa  before  the  needle. 

To  widen :  To  increase  by  making  a  stich,  bringing  the  cotton 
round  the  needle  and  knitting  the  same  when  it  ocGtirs. 


FANCY  STITCHES.  209 

A  plain  row :    That  composed  of  simple  knitting. 

To  rib :    To  work  alternate  rows  of  plain  and  purl  knitting. 

A  Loop  Stitch  :  Made  by  bringing  the  cotton  before  the  needle,  and 
in  knitting  the  succeeding  stitch  will  again  take  its  own  place. 

To  slip  or  pass  a  stitch  :  To  change  it  from  one  needle  to  the  other 
without  knitting  it. 

When  it  is  necessary  to  cast  off  and  continue  a  row  on  a  separate 
needle,  run  a  coarse  thread  through  the  cast  off  stitches,  so  that  they 
may  be  easily  taken  up. 

Welts  are  rounds  of  alternate  plain  and  pearled  stitches  done  at  the 
top  of  stockings  to  prevent  their  curling  up  or  twisting. 

Be  careful  to  knit  neither  too  tight  nor  too  loose,  and  with  needles 
free  from  rust. 

CROCHET  STITCHES. 

Single  Stitch  or  S.  C. — Put  the  hook  in  a  stitch  of  the  work,  bring 
the  cotton  through  in  a  loop,  and  also  through  the  loop  on  the  hook. 

Double  Crochet  or  D.  C. — Put  the  hook  in  a  stitch,  bring  the  cotton 
through ;  take  up  the  cotton  again  and  bring  it  through  the  two  loops. 

Treble  Stitch  or  T.  C. — Turn  the  cotton  around  the  hook,  put  it  in 
a  stitch,  bring  the  cotton  through  ;  then  take  it  up  and  bring  it  through 
two  loops  twice. 

Long  Stitch  or  Long  Treble — Turn  the  cotton  twice  around  the 
needle,  work  as  in  treble  stitch,  bringing  the  cotton  through  two  loops 
three  times. 

It  is  probably  unnecessary  to  explain  "  chain  "  stitch,  as  it  is  the 
foundation  of  all  crochet,  and  is  only  a  straight  series  of  loops,  each 
drawn  through  the  preceding  one. 

FANCY  STITCHES. 

Bee  Stitch — For  a  purse  cast  on  sixty  stitches,  twenty  on  each  needle. 
Knit  two  rows  plain.  Third  row,  bring  the  silk  forward,  slip  on  stitch; 
knit  the  next  and  pull  the  one  you  slipped  over  it ;  knit  the  next — pearl 
the  next — proceed  thus  one  round.  The  next  round  knit  plain,  and  so 
on,  alternating  each  round.  Two  colors  may  be  used,  knitting  six  or 
eight  rounds  of  each. 

Embossed  Diamond  Stitch— Cast  on  any  number  of  stitches,  divis- 
ible by  seven.  Knit  first  row  plain.  Second  row,  pearl  one,  knit  five, 
pearl  two  and  repeat  one  round.  Third  row,  knit  two,  pearl  three,  knit 
four,  and  so  on  to  end  of  row.  Fourth  row,  pearl  three,  knit  one,  pearl 
six  to  end.  Fifth  row,  knit  plain.  Sixth  row,  pearl  two,  knit  two,  pearl 
five.  Seventh  row,  knit  two,  pearl  four,  knit  three.  Eighth  row,  knit 
six,  pearl  one.  Ninth  row,  reverse  above,  pearl  six,  knit  one.  Tenth 
row,  knit  five,  pearl  three,  knit  four.  Eleventh  row,  knit  three,  pearl 
two,  knit  five.  Twelfth  row,  plain  and  complete  the  pattern. 
14 


210  KNITTING,  CROCHET  AND  LACE. 

Embossed  Hexagon  Stitch — Cast  on  any  number  of  stitches  divisible 
by  six.  Knit  first  row  plain,  second  pearled,  third  plain ;  fourth  row, 
knit  four,  slip  two  all  round;  fifth  row,  pearl,  slipping  the  slipped 
stitches ;  sixth  row,  knit  plain,  slipping  the  stitches  as  before ;  seventh 
row,  pearled,  still  slipping  the  stitches  ;  eighth  and  ninth,  knit  plain  and 
pearled,  still  slipping  the  stitches ;  tenth  row  is  pearled,  and  you  take 
the  slipped  stitches ;  next  row  knit  plain,  the  last  pearled  and  completes 
the  pattern.  In  beginning  the  next,  pearl  a  row,  slipping  the  fifth  and 
sixth  stitches  so  they  shall  be  in  the  center  of  the  previously  worked 
pattern,  then  proceed  as  before. 

Fantail  Stitch — Cast  on  any  even  number  of  stitches,  a  loop  is  to  be 
made  by  throwing  the  thread  over  the  needle,  then  knit  one,  throw  the 
thread  over,  knit  one  ;  the  two  last  stitches  knit  plain ;  narrow  at  the 
commencement  and  conclusion  of  each  row,  at  the  second  and  third 
stitch  until  you  have  reduced  it  to  the  original  number ;  cast  on  usually 
fourteen  stitches. 

French  Stitch — Cast  on  in  fours,  have  two  over.  First  stitch  is 
pearled ;  put  thread  back  and  knit  two  together.  Form  a  new  stitch  by 
bringing  the  thread  forward  and  knitting  the  next  stitch  ;  bring  thread 
forward  and  pearl  the  last  stitch  which  finishes  the  pattern.  Do  the 
same  next  row  ;  at  the  end  throw  thread  back ;  knit  two  together,  bring 
thread  forward  and  knit  last  stitch  plain. 

Lace  Wave  Stitch — Any  even  number  of  stitches.  Slip  one,  knit 
one,  make  one  narrow  by  knitting  two  together;  knit  one,  make  one, 
narrow  to  the  end  of  row.  Second  row,  knit  plain  ;  third  row,  knit  two, 
make  one  narrow,  two  in  one,  then  knit  one  and  narrow  as  before  to 
the  end ;  next  row,  knit  plain  ;  fifth  row,  knit  three  and  proceed  as  in 
first  row ;  sixth  row,  knit  plain ;  seventh  row,  knit  four  stitches  plain, 
then  proceed  as  before ;  eighth  row,  knit  plain ;  ninth,  knit  five  plain 
and  proceed  as  above  to  end.  Two  rows  of  plain  knitting  complete  the 
pattern. 

Moss  Stitch — Any  even  number ;  slip  first  stitch ;  bring  thread  for- 
ward and  pearl  the  second  ;  repeat  to  the  end.  The  next  row  is  worked 
so  that  the  stitches  knit  plain  in  the  first  row  are  pearled  in  this. 

Honeycomb  Stitch — Knit  one,  slip  one,  knit  two  together;  second 
row,  plain ;  third,  repeat  first  row.  This  is  pretty  for  small  shawls,  as 
is  also  the  diamond  and  hexagon  stitches,  adding  a  fringe  and  border. 

Fly  Stitch — Make  a  chain  length  wanted,  crochet  one,  double  into 
every  third  chain  until  the  end  is  reached ;  do  not  break  off,  but  return, 
holding  the  same  side  of  the  work  towards  you  as  in  Afghan.  Start  by 
making  four  chain  stitches  ;  take  off  first  loop  on  hook ;  make  one  chain  ; 
take  off  two ;  continue  making  one  and  taking  off  two  to  end  of  row. 
Third  row,  draw  a  loop  through  the  first  open  space,  a  second  through 
the  perpendicular  stitch  and  a  third  loop  through  the  second  open  space ; 


LACE  STITCHES.  211 

take  off  the  three  last  stitches  together  and  make  one ;  continue  to  end 
of  row,  working  the  three  last  stitches  into  the  loop  made  with  four 
chain  stitches.  These  rows  form  a  complete  pattern  and  can  be  repeated 
until  the  work  is  the  size  required. 

Star  or  Fan  Stitch — can  be  worked  either  the  short  or  long  way  and 
the  wool  has  to  be  broken  off  at  the  end  of  each  row.  Make  a  chain 
the  length  required.  First  row,  raise  four  stitches  in  usual  way  for 
common  Afghan  stitch.  This  makes  five  loops  on  hook ;  pull  wool 
through  all  five,  one  chain.*  Raise  a  stitch  in  Afghan  by  putting  hook 
through  small  hole  formed  by  this  last  one  chain,  raise  a  second  loop  by 
inserting  hook  through  the  back  part  of  next  stitch,  now  raise  the  next 
chain  stitch  of  foundation  row,  the  last  stitch  having  been  part  of  first 
"fan."  You  have  now  four  loops  on  hook;  raise  next  chain,  pull  the 
wool  through  all  five  loops  and  work  one  chain  to  complete  it.  This 
ends  second  star.  Repeat  from  *  to  end  of  row.  Second,  join  wool 
by  one  double,  three  chain,  raise  two  stitches  of  chain  in  Afghan,  raise 
one  over  the  first  star  of  last  row,  and  one  in  the  hole  formed  by  the  one 
chain,  which  completed  the  first  fan  of  first  row.  You  have  now  five 
stitches ;  pull  the  wool  through  all  five  and  complete  the  fan  by  one 
chain.  *Insert  hook  in  through  hole  formed  by  one  chain  just  made, 
and  raise  one  Afghan  stitch;  raise  the  back  part  of  next  stitch  which  is 
the  last  stitch  of  preceding  fan,  raise  the  next  stitch  and  the  fourth  into 
the  center  of  fan  of  preceding  row,  fifth  into  the  circle  of  one  chain  of 
same  fan,  draw  wool  through  all  five  at  once  and  make  one  chain. 
This  completes  second  star  or  fan.  Repeat  from  star  to  end  of  row. 
Every  row  is  like  the  second. 

LACE  STITCHES. 

Princess,  or  modern  point  lace,  has  been  very  much  in  vogue  for  the 
past  few  years,  and  is  very  delicate  and  lady-like  employment  for  fem- 
inine fingers. 

The  materials  required  for  this  work  are  linen  braids  of  suitable 
width,  and  fine  linen  thread,  and  as  it  is  made  of  linen,  if  the  stitches 
are  worked  with  evenness,  there  is  no  reason  why  it  should  not  be  as 
valuable  as  real  point  lace.  We  have  the  same  stitches,  such  as  point 
de  Venise,  point  de  Bruxelles,  point  d'Angleterre,  etc. 

It  is  best  to  begin  with  a  small  piece  of  work,  as  a  butterfly  or  leaf, 
containing  six  or  eight  of  the  principal  stitches.  Get  a  pattern  and  tack 
the  braid  neatly  on  the  outline,  then  fill  in  with  the  stitch  designed  on 
the  pattern. 

One  of  the  most  desirable  stitches  is  the  spider  web.  This  is  worked 
with  a  fine  thread  and  sharp  needle.  Fasten  a  number  of  threads 
across— say  six  or  eight,  twist  each  strand  back— when  you  come  to  the 
last  twist  back  to  the  center  only — run  the  thread  three  or  four  times 


212  KNITTING,  CROCHET  AND  LACE, 

under,  and  over,  the  alternate  strands,  then  twist  down  the  last  strand 
and  fasten  off. 

Point  de  Bruxelles  is  simply  the  ordinary  button-hole  stitch,  which  is 
worked  on  the  eSge  of  the  braid.  The  stitches  should  be  taken  about 
fourteen  to  the  inch  and  worked  from  left  to  right. 

A  handsome  lace  for  evening  dresses  can  be  made  in  this  wise  :  Take 
white  paper  the  width  the  lace  is  to  be,  draw  a  lace  pattern  on  it,  baste 
Brussels  net  (either  black  or  white)  on  the  pattern  and  follow  the 
marks,  which,  of  course,  show  through  the  net,  working  in  with  colored 
silks.  There  is  no  necessity  of  drawing  a  long  pattern,  as  a  few  scal- 
lops can  be  finished  and  the  pattern  unfastened  from  that  and  used 
again.  Collars  and  cuffs  can  be  made  the  same  way,  or  done  on  satin 
instead  of  the  net,  and  finished  with  lace  on  the  edge. 

NETTING  STITCHES. 

The  beauty  of  netting  consists  in  its  firmness  and  regularity.  AH 
joints  in  the  thread  must  be  made  in  a  very  strong  knot,  and,  if  possible 
at  an  edge,  so  that  it  may  not  be  perceived.  The  implements  used  in 
netting  are  a  netting  needle  and  a  mesh.  In  filling  a  netting  needle 
with  the  material,  be  careful  not  to  make  it  so  full  that  here  will  be  a 
difficulty  in  passing  it  through  the  stitches.  The  size  of  the  needle 
must  depend  on  the  material  employed,  and  the  fineness  of  the  work. 
Steel  needles  are  employed  for  every  kind  of  netting  except  the  very 
^coarsest.  The  fine  meshes  are  usually  also  of  steel ;  but  as  this  material 
is  heavy,  it  is  better  to  employ  bone  or  wooden  meshes  when  large 
•ones  are  required.  Many  meshes  are  flat,  and  in  using  them  the  width 
is  given. 

The  first  stitch  in  this  work  is  termed  Diamond  Netting,  the  holes 
iDeing  in  the  form  of  diamonds.  To  do  the  first  row,  a  stout  thread* 
knotted  to.  form  a  round,  is  fastened  to  the  knee  with  a  pin,  or  passed 
'Over  the  foot  or  on  a  hook,  sometimes  attached  to  a  work  cushion  for 
the  purpose.  The  end  of  .  the  thread  on  the  needle  is  knotted  to 
this,  the  mesh  being  held  in  tiie  left  hand  on  a  line  with  it.  Take  the 
needle  in  the  right  hand,  let  the  thread  cover  the  mesh  and  the  third 
finger,  bring  it  back  under  the  mesh,  and  hold  it  between  the  thumb 
aad  first  finger.  Slip  the  needle  through  the  loop  over  the  third  finger, 
under  the  mesh  and  foundatioti  thread.  In  doing  this  a  loop  will  be 
formed,  which  must  be  passed  over  the  fourth  finger ;  withdraw  the 
third  finger  from  the  loop,  and  draw  up  the  loop  over  the  fourth  grad- 
ually until  it  is  quite  tight  on  the  mesh.  The  thumb  should  be  kept 
firmly  over  the  mesh  while  the  stitch  is  being  completed.  When  the 
necessary  number  of  stitches  is  made  on  this  foundation,  the  future  rows 
are  to  be  worked  backward  and  forward. 

To  Form  a  Round  the  first  stitch  is  to  be  worked  immediately  after 
the  last,  wiiich  closes  the  netting  into  a  circle. 


BABIES'  BOOTS.  213 

Round  Netting  is  very  nearly  the  same  stitch,  the  difference  is  merely 
in  the  way  of  putting  the  needle  through  the  loop  and  foundation  or 
other  stitch.  After  passing  the  needle  through  the  loop  it  must  be 
brought  out  and  put  downwards  through  the  stitch.  This  stitch  is  par- 
ticularly suited  for  purses. 

Square  Netting  is  exactly  the  same  stitch  as  diamond  netting,  only  it 
is  begun  at  a  corner  on  one  stitch  and  increased  (by  doing  two  in  one) 
in  the  last  stitch  of  every  row,  until  the  greatest  width  required  is 
attained.  Then  by  netting  tv/o  stitches  together  at  the  end  of  every 
row,  the  piece  is  decreased  to  a  point  again.  When  stretched  out  all 
the  holes  in  this  netting  are  square. 

Square  and  Diamond  Netting  are  the  most  frequently  used  and  are 
ornamented  by  patterns  darned  on  them  in  simple  darning  or  in  various 
point  stitches ;  in  the  latter  case  it  forms  a  variety  of  the  sort  of  work 
termed  guipure.     Stitches  in  netting  are  always  counted  by  knots. 

AFGHANS. 

This  requires  twelve  ounces  of  blue  single  zephyr  and  one  Afghan 
needle.  Make  a  chain  of  115  stitches,  then  turn  and  long  crochet  into 
each  stitch ;  that  makes  the  first  row.  Row  No,  2,  long  crochet  into 
five  stitches,  then  make  a  chain  of  five,  and  long  crochet  into  the  sixth 
stitch,  then  long  crochet  four  more — making  five  in  all — then  the  chain 
again,  and  so  on,  you  will  then  have  twelve  rows  of  stitches  and  eleven 
spaces. 

Row  No.  3,  the  same  as  No.  i,  Row  No.  4,  the  same  as  No.  2,  and 
so  on,  every  alternate  row  having  the  spaces,  and  be  sure  that  they 
come  exactly  above  each  other;  work  in  this  way  until  it  is  about 
square.  Then  crochet  a  border  of  ten  rows  of  shells  all  around  it ; 
then  run  ribbon  in  and  out  through  the  spaces,  finishing  at  each  end 
with  a  loop  or  very  small  bow.  It  requires  about  a  whole  piece  of 
ribbon,  of  either  blue  or  white. 

A  Couch  Spread,  or  Afghan,  can  be  made  in  this  way :  Take  Ger- 
mantown  or  zephyr;  cast  on  thirty-three  stitches — first  row,  knit  across 
twice ;  second  row,  seam  ;  third,  narrow  first  two  stitches,  knit  three, 
thread  over,  knit  one,  thread  over,  knit  three,  narrow  twice,  knit  three, 
thread  over,  knit  one,  thread  over,  knit  three,  narrow  twice,  knit  three, 
thread  over,  knit  one,  thread  over,  knit  three,  narrow  last  two,  seam 
back,  and  begin  again  by  narrowing  first  two,  knit  three,  etc. 

BABIES'   BOOTS. 

Materials :  One  ounce  of  white  single  zephyr,  one  ounce  of  colored 
and  two  knitting  needles.  Cast  on  eighty  stitches  of  the  colored  and 
knit  ten  times  across,  making  a  stitch  at  the  beginning  of  each  needle  ; 
you  will  now  have  ninety  stitches,  then  knit  plain  back  and  forth  twelve 


214  KNITTING,  CROCHET  AND  LACE. 

times,  now  knit  thirty-six  stitches,  knit  two  together,  knit  fourteen,  then 
two  together,  then  thirty-six,  now  knit  back  again  thirty-six. 

Now  take  the  white  zephyr  and  knit  sixteen  stitches,  knitting  two 
together  for  the  last  turn  and  knit  the  sixteen  again,  knitting  two  for  the 
last  as  before.  Knit  in  this  way  four  with  the  white,  tv/o  with  the 
blue,  then  with  the  white  again,  and  so  on  until  you  have  twenty-one 
stitches  on  each  side,  instead  of  the  thirty-six  you  started  with.  You 
will  now  have  fiv^e  rows  of  white  and  five  rows  of  blue.  The  last  time 
you  knit  with  the  blue  go  across  the  needle  and  break  your  thread  and 
tip  on  the  white. 

You  have  now  fifty-eight  stitches  on  your  needle,  knit  plain  six  times 
across,  then  put  your  thread  over  and  knit  two  together,  across  the  mid- 
dle, then  begin  to  seam,  seam  two  and  knit  two,  just  as  you  would  for 
pulse  warmers,  until  it  is  about  half  a  finger  deep,  then  bind  off ;  now 
sew  them  up  on  the  wrong  side,  crochet  a  row  of  -Shells  around  the 
top,  run  a  narrow  ribbon  through  the  row  of  holes  and  tie  in  a  bow  on 
top,  and  you  have  a  pair  of  shoes  dainty  enough  for  any  baby.  In  sew- 
ing them  together,  gather  them  a  little  at  the  toe,  to  make  rounding. 

CHILDREN'S  CAPS  AND  BONNETS. 

Bicycle  Cap. — Use  a  mixed  wool  and  No.  ii  hook.  The  cap  is 
worked  in  rounds,  not  rows.  Make  a  chain  of  six  stitches,  and  work 
ten  stitches  in  treble  crochet  in  the  ring,  then  work  round  for  seven 
rounds  of  treble  crochet.  As  you  begin  the  sixth  round  there  should 
be  1 02  stitches ;  before  you  finish  the  seventh  round  you  must  decrease 
fourteen  stitches,  leaving  eighty-eight.  Then  do  three  rows  ,  of  open 
treble  stitch,  two  chain,  miss  one  loop,  and  finish  off  leaving  a  straight 
edge.  For  the  turned-up  part  then  do  a  row  of  seventy-nine  treble 
stitches  working  the  other  way,  and  it  is  then  finished  in  star  pattern. 

Sailor  or  Fireman  s  Cap. — This  is  suitable  for  children's  wear,  or 
even  for  young  ladies  at  lawn  tennis.  It  is  done  in  double  Berlin,  of  a 
dark  navy  blue  color,  and  a  large  wooden  crochet  needle.  Make  a 
chain  of  eight  stitches,  join  and  work  ten  stitches  into  the  ring  in  double 
crochet,  then  proceed  onward  in  rounds,  not  rows.  The  second  row, 
work  two  stitches  into  every  stitch,  putting  the  hook  through  both 
stitches  of  the  chain ;  then  work  for  the  third  row  two  stitches  into 
every  third.  The  top  consists  of  fourteen  rows,  and  requires  to  be 
increased  with  great  care,  so  as  to  keep  it  perfectly  flat.  After  the  four- 
teenth row,  when  there  should  be  seventy-four  stitches,  do  one  round 
plain,  and  begin  decreasing  for  four  rounds  till  there  are  fifty-seven 
sdtches  ;  then  three  rounds  of  single  crochet,  one  round  of  double  crochet, 
and  three  more  rounds  of  single  crochet,  which  finishes  the  band  of  the 
cap  with  fifty-seven  stitches  as  you  began  it.  A  silk  ball  or  pompon  is 
placed  in  the  center  of  the  crown. 


COUNTERPANES.  215 

Neapolitan  Fisherman' s  Cap. — This  cap  is  made  of  single  Berlin 
wool,  in  stripes  of  red  and  blue,  and  No.  8  bone  needle.  The  stitch  is 
double  crochet,  the  hook  being-  put  through  both  stitches  of  the  chain. 
The  work  is  done  in  rows,  and  each  stripe  consists  of  six  rows  of  the 
same  color.  The  first  stripe  is  blue ;  make  a  chain  of  four  stitches, 
join,  and  work  twelve  double  into  the  loop.  Second  row — Two  stitches 
into  each  stitch.  Third  row — Work  two  into  every  alternate  stitch. 
Fourth  row — Two  into  every  third  stitch.  Fifth  row — The  same. 
Seventh  row — Begin  with  red  and  increase  four  stitches  in  each  row. 
Increase  very  gradually,  henceforth,  keeping  a  pointed  shape  for  six 
stripes,  ending  with  red  and  beginning  with  blue ;  there  should  then  be 
ninety-three  stitches.  The  rest  of  the  cap  for  eight  alternates  of  blue 
and  red  rows  is  not  increased.  The  fourteenth  stripe  is  red.  Then 
turn  the  cap  around  and  work  the  other  way  round,  for  the  turn  over 
in  blue  for  thirty-two  rows.  Turn  up  half  of  this  length  and  iron  flat. 
The  top  is  finished  by  a  thick  tassel  of  red  wool. 

Tarn  O'Shanter  Bonnets — Materials :  Two  skeins  of  four-threaded 
fleecy  wool ;  bone-hook,  No.  lo.  Make  three  chains,  and  unite.  Work 
in  rounds  of  treble  crochet,  increasing  by  working  two  stitches  in  one 
whenever  necessar}^  so  as  to  keep  the  work  fiat  until  your  round  piece 
measures  eleven  inches.  Now  begin  the  under  part.  Mark  the  last  stitch 
of  the  last  circle  by  a  bit  of  white  thread.  First  and  second  rounds, 
plain  treble  crochet ;  third  round,  three  treble  (decrease,  which  means 
miss  one) ;  fourth  round,  five  treble  (decrease)  ;  fifth  round,  nine  treble 
(decrease) ;  sixth  round,  six  treble ;  decrease  seventh ;  decrease  every 
twentieth  stitch,  and  then  do  three  rounds  plain.  Finish  with  a  round 
of  one  double  crochet  and  two  single,  just  to  steady  the  edge. 

KNITTED  BALLS. 

Cast  on  thirty  stitches ;  knit  one  plain  row,  turn  back,  knit  twenty- 
three  stitches,  cast  the  thread  over  and  knit  back,  leaving  seven  stitches 
at  the  end  on  the  needle  ;  knit  back,  leaving  six  at  each  end,  then  five, 
then  four,  then  three,  then  two,  then  one.  This  makes  one  quarter. 
This  size  takes  nine  quarters.  Use  three  colors,  red,  white  and  blue, 
and  it  will  be  very  pretty.     Sew  it  up  at  the  side  and  one  end,  and  fill. 

COUNTERPANES. 

The  materials  required  are  No.  8  or  lo  knitting  cotton  and  two  knit- 
ting needles  of  proper  size.  It  is  knit  in  "  shells "  and  then  sewed 
together. 

Cast  on  forty  stitches,  first  row,  knit  plain. 

Second.  Take  off  first  stitch,  narrow,  make  a  stitch  by  putting  the 
thread  over  the  needle,  narrow,  make  one,  and  so  on  across  the  needle. 

Third.     Knit  across  plain. 


KNITTING,  CROCHET  AND  LACE, 

Fourth.     Knit  four  plain,  seam  except  the  last  four,  which  knit  plain. 

Fifth.  Four  plain,  narrow  twice,  make  one,  narrow  one,  make  one, 
till  only  six  remain,  then  narrow  once  and  knit  four  plain. 

Sixth.     Four  plain,  seam  all  but  the  last  four  ;  knit  those  plain. 

Seventh.  Four  plain,  narrow,  the  rest  plain  till  the  last  six,  narrow 
and  knit  four  plain. 

Eighth.     Like  the  seventh. 

Ninth.     Four  plain,  seam  to  the  last  four,  which  knit  plain. 

Tenth.  Four  plain,  narrow ;  plain  to  the  last  six,  narrow,  knit  four 
plain. 

Eleventh.     Four  plain,  seam  to  the  last  four,  which  knit  plain. 

Twelfth.     Like  the  eleventh. 

Thirteenth.  Four  plain,  narrow,  plain  till  six  are  left,  narrow,  and 
knit  the  rest  plain. 

Fourteenth.     Four  plain,  seam  all  but  last  four,  knit  plain. 

Fifteenth.  Four  plain,  narrow,  knit  plain  till  six  are  left,  narrow^ 
knit  plain. 

Sixteenth.     Like  the  fifteenth. 

Seventeenth.     Four  plain,  seam  all  but  last  four. 

Eighteenth.     Four  plain,  narrow,  plain,  etc. 

Nineteenth.     Four  plain,  seam,  etc. 

Twentieth.     Like  nineteenth. 

When  one  has  gone  so  far  it  is  easy  and  plain  to  go  on. 

The  shell  begins  with  two  rows  of  holes  ;  the  other  two  sides  have  a 
border  four  stitches  deep ;  the  center  is  ridged  in  three  stripes  across 
by  alternate  seaming  and  plaining.  The  outline  is  in  graceful  curves^ 
and  when  sewed  together  it  forms  a  beautiful  spread. 

CHILDREN'S  KNIT  DRESSES. 

For  a  child  three  or  four  years  old,  buy  four  skeins  of  the  very  best 
Germantown  yam  (it  is  as  soft  as  zephyr  and  wears  better)  ;  have  one 
skein  two  shades  darker  than  the  others,  and  one  two  shades  darker 
still  than  that — Nos.  4,  6  and  8  of  scarlet  make  a  handsome  one.  Have 
two  needles  about  twelve  inches  long,  with  a  knob  on  one  end  (so  the 
work  will  not  slip  off)  and  about  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick.  You  can 
judge  of  the  size  by  buying  one  on  rule  or  tape  measure.  You  can  get 
them  made  of  large  wire  at  the  tin  shop. 

Cast  on  320  stitches  of  the  darkest  shade ;  knit  the  first  row  plain 
across,  seam  all  the  second  row,  knit  plain  the  third.  The  pearl  side  is 
the  right  side.  Fourth  row — knit  the  first  stitch,  take  up  a  loop  and 
knit  it  to  make  a  stitch,  knit  two  ;  now  you  have  four.  Slip  off  the  next 
without  knitting  it ;  narrow  the  next,  bind  the  one  you  slipped  over  the 
one  you  narrowed ;  knit  three,  put  thread  around  the  needle  to  make  a 
stitch,  knit  one,  put  thread  around  again,  knit  three,  slip  one,  narrov/. 


FRINGE  AND  BORDER.  217 

and  so  on  across  the  needle ;  seam  all  the  way  back,  knit  the  pattern 
row  three  times  across  and  seam  back ;  break  the  thread  and  join  the 
next  lighter  shade ;  knit  plain,  knit  plain  again  to  bring  the  pearl  on  the 
right  side ;  seam  back,  knit  plain,  begin  the  pattern  again,  knit  nine 
scollops  deep,  then  sHp  and  bind  it  all  off,  sew  it  up ;  this  is  the  skirt. 

For  the  waist,  cast  on  170  stitches,  knit  eight  scollops  deep  of  one 
color,  then  knit  forty  stitches,  bind  off  the  next  ten,  knit  seventy,  bind 
off  ten,  knit  forty.  Take  a  darning-needle  and  twine,  and  slip  off  two  of 
these  parts  on  the  string,  knit  one  at  a  time  until  the  three  are  knit 
three  scollops  deep,  taking  care  to  keep  the  pattern  the  same,  then  join 
all  on  one  needle,  and  at  the  joining  narrow  twice  every  time  across  for 
three  patterns  deep,  then  narrow  every  four  or  five  stitches  down  to  sev- 
enty or  eighty  stitches  and  bind  off.  Set  up  sixty  stitches  for  the  sleeve, 
knit  ten  deep,  sew  up  and  in,  sew  on  the  skirt,  finish  all  round  with  a 
crocheted  edge,  cut  one  thread  where  the  button-hole  comes,  overcast 
the  holes,  and  crochet  covers  for  buttons.  Put  a  large  cord  in  around 
the  waist  and  neck  finished  with  balls  or  tassels. 

EGG  BASKETS. 

A  round  cardboard  box  about  twenty-two  inches  in  circumference 
for  the  foundation.  For  an  outside  cover  take  shaded  moss  and  bright 
green  wool  and  make  a  band  of  looped  knitting  as  follows :  Cast  on 
twenty-four  inches ;  knit  first  row  plain. 

Second  Row — Insert  the  right-hand  pin  into  the  first  loop  of  next 
row ;  turn  the  wool  three  times  over  the  pin  and  round  the  fore-finger, 
draw  all  three  loops  through  in  the  ordinary  way ;  knit  one.  Repeat  to 
the  end  of  row. 

Third  Row — Knit  plain,  taking  the  three  loops  of  last  row  as  one 
stitch ;  second  and  third  rows  are  repeated  until  twenty-two  inches  are 
worked,  then  cast  off,  join  round,  sew  neatly  to  the  outside  of  the  box 
and  fill  the  outside  of  the  box  half  full  of  wadding  and  then  put  in  the 
lining.  , 

For  the  moss  which  fills  the  inside,  take  single  Berlin  wool  of  the 
same  shade ;  cast  on  twenty  stitches,  knit  in  stripes  of  plain  knitting  ; 
steam  stripes  over  boiling  water,  dry  well,  cut  off  the  stitches  on  one 
side,  unravel  to  within  three  stitches  of  the  outer  side  ;  sew  this  fringe 
in  bunches  along  the  sides  and  bottom.  This  will  make  a  useful  addi- 
tion to  a  breakfast  table  to  keep  the  eggs  warm,  if  they  are  well  cov- 
ered with  the  moss. 

FRINGE  AND  BORDER. 

Even  number  of  stitches  to  depth  required.  Begin  by  making  a 
stitch,  laying  the  thread  over  the  needle  ;  put  it  through  two  loops  and 
knit  them  as  one  ;  repeat  to  end  of  row,  and  continue  until  the  strip  is 


218  KNITTING,  CROCHET  AND  LACE, 

as  long  as  necessary.  Cast  off,  letting  from  four  to  ten  stitches  fall 
from  the  needle  to  ravel  out  for  the  fringe.  Narrower  fringe  may  be 
made  by  reducing  the  number  of  stitches  to  eight  or  ten. 

KNITTED  HORSE  REINS. 

These  are  made  by  working  with  scarlet  double  zephyr  wool  over  a 
crocheted  chain  as  follows :  Make  a  long  chain  for  insertion,  then,  on  a 
chain  of  thirteen  stitches,  work,  passing  over  the  first  stitch  a  row  of 
double  on  the  front  thread  of  the  previous  row,  inserting  the  chain  cord  ; 
at  the  end  of  the  row,  one  chain,*  turn  the  work,  one  slip  stitch  on  the 
back  thread  of  the  previous  row,  without  inserting  the  chain  cord,  at 
the  end  of  the  row,  one  chain;  repeat  from*  till  the  reins  are  the 
required  length.  Now  work  over  the  loops  formed  by  the  chain  cord 
along  both  sides  of  the  reins  as  follows :  *one  double  over  the  first  loop, 
five  treble  over  the  following  loop ;  repeat  from  *  This  can  be  cro- 
cheted in  long  strips  or  knit  on  two  needles,  garter  stitch. 

LADIES'  SILK  HOSE. 

These  are  knit  like  a  common  stocking,  or  in  "railroad  fashion.** 
There  is  a  silk  knitting  thread  sold  for  this  purpose  and  for  mittens, 
that  comes  in  balls,  but  most  people  find  it  too  soft  and  prefer  the 
tightly  twisted  finer  thread  which  comes  in  large  skeins,  weighing  five 
oimces.  Cast  on  twenty-eight  stitches  on  the  needles  and  knit  away 
until  you  have  a  long,  slender  pipe  (not  at  all  like  a  stocking)  about  half 
a  yard  in  length,  or  more  if  you  require  an  extra  length.  Then  knit 
round  once,  dropping  every  fourth  stitch ;  these  dropped  stitches  will 
run  to  the  toe  of  the  stocking,  striping  it  in  beautiful  open  work,  and 
wide  enough  for  even  a  large  leg.  After  this  the  stocking,  being  as 
many  stitches  smaller  as  you  have  dropped,  you  knit  about  three  inches 
at  that  size  and  then  off.  What !  no  heel,  the  reader  may  say.  The 
stocking  needs  none,  it  shapes  itself  to  the  heel  as  do  the  wool  ones  that 
are  made  for  children,  from  the  woven  bands  introduced  a  season  or  so 
ago. 

ANGORA  HOODS. 

These  comfortable  and  serviceable  little  hoods  are  knit  on  two  com- 
mon coarse  knitting  needles.  Three  or  four  balls  of  Angora  wool  are 
required.  As  fast  as  this  wool  is  knitted  a  fleece  arises  on  it  resembling 
soft  white  fur.  For  a  very  small  hood  set  up  ninety  stitches  or  more  to 
make  a  piece  long  enough  to  go  around  the  child's  face  and  meet  under 
the  chin.  Knit  back  and  forth,  plain  quarter  stitch,  until  you  have  a 
piece  wide  enough  to  cover  the  top  of  the  head.  Then  slip  and  bind  off 
on  each  end,  leaving  not  quite  one-third  of  the  original  number  of 
stitches  in  the  center,  to  be  knit  back  and  forth  for  a  crown  piece. 
When  the  crown  piece  is  long  enough  to  fit  exactly  in  the  back,  cast  off 


LADIES'  KNIT  JERSEYS.  219 

and  with  a  needle  and  the  wool  sew  the  crown  to  the  front  on  the 
wrong  side.  The  fleece  will  cover  up  the  seam.  With  a  fine  crochet 
hook  make  a  border  of  small  shells  all  around  the  head  and  run  a  rib- 
bon in  around  the  face  and  around  the  neck.  By  means  of  this  ribbon 
you  can  draw  the  hood  in  to  exactly  fit  the  child.  A  pleating  of  fine 
lace  all  around  and  a  bow  of  ribbon  on  top  and  in  the  back  completes  a 
warm,  pretty  little  hood.  Angora  wool  comes  in  white  and  gray. 
Children  of  all  ages  wear  these  hoods.  Washing  does  not  injure  the 
white  ones. 

IMITATION  CORAL. 

Take  two  steel  needles.  No.  14,  and  a  skein  of  coral-colored,  narrow 
worsted  braid.  Cast  on  three  stitches,  take  off  the  first  and  knit  the 
other  two  in  each  row.  Every  row  is  exactly  the  same.  Another  way  : 
Cast  on  three  stitches,  slip  one,  knit  one.  This  makes  a  pretty  neck- 
lace for  a  child's  rubber  ring  or  for  catch-ups  for  short  sleeves. 

SAXONY  INSERTION. 

Cast  on  eighteen  stitches,  i.  Knit  two ;  thread  over  twice,  seam  two 
together ;  knit  ten ;  thread  over  twice,  seam  two  together ;  knit  two. 
2.  Knit  two;  thread  over  twice,  seam  two  together;  knit  five  threads 
over  four  times ;  seam  four  together  ;  knit  one ;  thread  over  twice,  seam 
two  together;  knit  two.  3.  Knit  two;  thread  over  twice,  seam  two 
together ;  knit  two ;  knit  first  loop,  seam  second,  knit  third ;  knit  five ; 
thread  over  twice,  seam  two  together ;  knit  two. 

LADIES'  KNIT  JERSEYS. 

No.  9  needle ;  merino  wool.  For  the  back — Cast  on  seventy-eight 
stitches  ;  pearl  three  ;  plain  three  in  ribs  for  one  hundred  and  forty  rows. 
One  hundred  and  forty-first  row — Knit  eighteen  stitches;  now  turn 
(these  eighteen  stitches  form  the  shoulder  straps)  ;  pearl  the  eighteen  ; 
knit  them ;  turn  and  pearl  them.  You  ought  now  to  be  beginning  the 
row  again,  and  this  time  you  pearl ;  pearl  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth 
stitches  together  ;  turn  and  knit  back ;  turn  and  pearl  back  ;  knit  a  row, 
taking  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  together ;  turn  and  pearl  back,  knit 
a  row,  taking  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth  together ;  turn  and  knit  the 
row.  Go  on  in  this  way,  remembering  always  to  decrease  at  the  left 
side,  at  the  end  of  every  row,  until  you  have  done  five  ribs  altogether. 
You  should  now  leave  on  twelve  stitches  ;  cast  off  ;  these  ribs  should 
be  crosswise,  instead  of  lengthwise.  Now  begin  to  cast  off  the  remain- 
ing stitches  until  you  come  to  the  last  eighteen.  Work  this  shoulder 
like  the  other.  For  rhe  front  part  of  vest  you  cast  on  seventy-eight 
stitches  and  knit  one  hundred  and  twenty-five  rows.  Begin  the  right- 
hand  shoulder  by  pearling  and  make  ribs  as  before,  only  this  time  you 


220  KNITTING,  CROCHET  AND  LACE. 

do  not  begin  to  decrease  at  the  left  until  you  have  done  seven  ribs. 
Reduce  to  twelve  stitches ;  make  eleven  ribs  and  cast  off.  Cast  off  the 
rest  of  the  stitches  and  proceed  as  before  with  the  last  eighteen  for  the 
fourth  shoulder  piece.  Now  sew  up  these  two  sides  until  you  get  to 
within  twenty-four  rows  of  the  top  of  the  front  piece,  which  is  the 
shortest.  You  must  now  join  the  rest  with  a  gusset,  which  you  form 
by  picking  up  one  stitch,  knit  it  and  turn  ;  in  every  row  you  must  now 
take  up  one  stitch  and  rib  them  the  same  as  the  other  part  of  the  vest 
in  three  and  three.  Thus,  the  first  row  you  leave  one  stitch,  the  next 
row  two,  the  next  row  three  and  so  on.  When  twenty-four  rows  are 
done,  cast  off.  Sew  up  the  shoulders  and  crochet  a  narrow  border  of 
small  even  holes,  into  which  run  ribbon.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  pick  up 
the  stitches  all  along  the  shoulder  strap  and  knit  a  few  rows  according 
to  the  depth  of  sleeve  desired. 

LADIES'  LEGGINS. 

For  a  grown  person  they  require  nine  ounces  of  Germantown  yam. 
Cast  fifty  stitches  on  each  of  two  needles,  knit  one  and  seam  one  for  a 
finger  in  length ;  then  knit  what  is  called  a  brioche  stitch ;  slip  off  the 
first  stitch  as  though  going  to  seam,  taking  care  to  have  the  thread 
toward  you  each  time ;  knit  two  together,  put  the  thread  towards  you 
and  slip  as  before,  knit  two,  etc.,  until  you  get  desired  length ;  then 
seam  one  and  knit  one,  as  at  the  top,  a  finger  in  length ;  slip  half  the 
stitches  off  each  needle  on  to  a  thread ;  seam  the  remainder  like  ankle, 
without  narrowing,  for  a  covering  to  top  of  shoes ;  sew  up  at  back ; 
stay  the  stitches  you  have  on  thread  ;  crochet  a  border  around  top  and 
bottom  ;  sew  on  a  piece  of  elastic  or  enamel  cloth  to  fasten  under  shoe. 
This  is  the  same  stitch  our  grandmothers  used  for  knitting  suspenders. 

LACE  FOR  LINGERIE. 

Use  number  forty  thread  and  fine  needles ;  set  up  seven  stitches  ; 
slip  off  first  one  ;  knit  the  second  one  plain  ;  put  your  thread  over  needle 
and  narrow ;  put  your  thread  over  needle  and  narrow ;  put  your  thread 
over  needle  and  knit  last  stitch ;  knit  plain  across  the  needle  ;  slip  off 
the  first  stitch ;  knit  two  stitches  plain ;  put  your  thread  over  needle 
and  narrow ;  put  your  thread  over  needle,  knit  last  stitch ;  knit  plain 
across  the  needle ;  slip  off  the  first  stitch ;  knit  three  stitches  plain ; 
put  your  thread  over  the  needle  and  narrow ;  put  your  thread  over  the 
needle  and  narrow ;  put  your  stitch  over  needle  and  knit  last  stitch ; 
knit  plain  across  the  needle ;  slip  off  first  stitch  and  knit  plain  across  j 
then  narrow  the  first  four  stitches,  which  will  leave  two  stitches  ;  slip 
and  bind  them,  which  will  leave  one  stitch ;  knit  the  other  six  stitches 
plain  ;  this  will  make  your  scallop,  and  leave  seven  stitches  to  com- 
mence again.     This  makes  a  very  durable  trimming.     Insertion  :   Cast 


NARRO IV  LACE  EDGE.  221 

on  nine  stitches,  take  off  a  stitch,  knit  two,  cast  over  and  knit  two 
together;  knit  one;  cast  over;  knit  two  together;  pearl  one.  Every 
row  is  the  same. 

LACE  EDGING. 

A  pretty  pattern  in  Saxony  yarn  to  trim  flannel  with :  Cast  on  thirteen 
stitches : 

First  row — Thread  over  and  around  needle;  seam  two  together, 
thread  over  and  around  needle,  seam  two  together,  knit  one  plain, 
thread  over,  narrow  two  together,  thread  over,  narrow,  thread  over, 
narrow,  thread  over,  knit  two  plain. 

Second  row — Knit  plain  to  four  stitches,  thread  over  and  around  the 
needle,  seam  two  together,  thread  over  and  around  needle,  seam  two 
together.     Repeat  this  row  alternately. 

Third  row — Thread  over  and  around  needle,  seam  two  together, 
repeat,  knit  two  plain,  thread  over,  narrow,  repeat  twice,  thread  over, 
knit  two  plain. 

Fourth  row— Like  second  row. 

Fifth  row — Thread  over  and  around  needle,  seam  two  together, 
repeat,  knit  three  plain,  thread  over,  narrow,  repeat,  repeat,  thread  over, 
knit  two  plain. 

Seventh  row — Thread  over  and  around  needle,  seam  two  together, 
repeat  twice,  knit  four  plain,  repeat  twice,  thread  over,  knit  two  plain. 

Ninth  row — Thread  over  and  around  needle,  seam  two  together, 
repeat,  knit  five  plain,  thread  over,  narrow,  repeat  twice,  thread  over, 
knit  two  plain. 

Eleventh  row — Thread  over,  etc.,  seam  two  together,  repeat,  knit  six 
plain,  thread  over,  narrow,  repeat  twice,  thread  over,  knit  two  plain. 

Thirteenth  row — Thread  over,  etc.,  seam  two  together,  repeat,  knit 
seven  plain,  thread  over,  etc. 

Fifteenth  row — Thread  over,  etc.,  seam  two  together,  repeat.  Knit 
the  remainder  of  this  row  plain. 

Sixteenth  row — Slip  and  bind  to  thirteen  stitches,  knit  eight  plain, 
thread  over  and  around  needle,  seam  two  together,  repeat.  This  forms 
one  point. 

NARROW  LACE  EDGE. 

This  is  nice  for  trimming  underwear  when  knit  of  No.  40  thread. 
Cast  on  six  stitches.  First  row — Knit  three,  thread  over  three  times, 
narrow,  knit  one.  Second — Knit  two,  knit  first  loop,  seam  second  loop, 
knit  third  loop,  knit  three.  Third — Knit  across  plain.  Fourth — Knit 
across  plain.  Fifth—  Knit  across  plain.  Sixth — Take  off  first  stitch 
without  knitting,  knit  second  stitch,  slip  first  stitch  over  second,  knit 
third  stitch,  slip  second  stitch  over  third  stitch,  knit  the  remaining  five 
plain ;  this  makes  one  scallop.     Repeat  from  first  row. 


222  KNITTING,  CROCHET  AND  LACE. 

SILK  OR  YARN  MITTENS. 

This  mitten  is  ribbed  from  wrist  to  fing-er  tips,  and  fits  as  perfectly  as 
a  glove.     The  thumb  is  knit  plain,  and  set  in  like  plain  mittens. 

With  seal  brown,  or  black  Saxony  yam  or  silk,  and  four  fine  needles, 
cast  on  seventy-two  stitches,  in  three  needles,  knit  three,  and  seam  three, 
until  you  have  a  wrist  an  inch  and  a  half  long.  Now  commence  the 
thumb.  In  the  middle  of  the  needle,  where  three  stitches  are  knit, 
make  a  stitch  (by  picking  up  a  loop)  on  each  side  of  the  center  stitch, 
making  five  stitches  instead  of  three.  Widen  in  this  manner  every 
seventh  time  around,  until  you  have  twenty-one  stitches  for  the  thumb. 
Slip  these  twenty-one  stitches  off  on  a  strong  thread,  make  or  cast  in 
three  stitches,  join  your  work  and  finish  the  hand,  knitting  three,  and 
seaming  three  stitches,  until  the  end  of  the  fingers  is  reached,  then  nar- 
row off  as  quickly  as  possible,  narrow  every  three  stitches.  Pick  up  the 
twenty-one  thumb  stitches  with  seven  other  stitches  taken  up  where  the 
thumb  joins  the  hand,  and  knit  the  thumb  plain,  narrow  it  off  as  in 
plain  mittens.     Crochet  a  little  border  around  the  wrist. 

CHILDREN'S  PETTICOATS. 

Cast  on  seventy-two  stitches  of  ordinary  Germantown  wool  for  a 
breadth,  of  which  three  will  be  sufficient,  and  after  having  knitted  plain 
about  two-thirds  of  the  length  required,  do  the  remainder  in  brioche 
stitch  (over,  slip  one,  knit  two  together),  which  draws  it  in  sufficiently 
around  the  waist,  or,  if  preferred,  decrease  on  each  side  of  the  breadths 
by  knitting  the  second  and  third  stitch  and  the  two  before  the  last 
together,  every  tenth  row.  The  petticoat  might  be  knitted  all  in  one, 
but  it  would  be  cumbersome.  It  is  better  to  decrease  each  breadth 
than  only  at  the  back.  In  joining  the  breadths  leave  an  opening  at  the 
back  for  plaquet  hole. 

Very  pretty  edging  is  made  by  casting  on  thirteen  stitches. 

PILLOW  CASE  EDGING. 

Use  Barbour's  linen  thread.  No.  60,  as  it  wears  twice  as  long  as  that 
made  from  cotton  thread,  besides  looking  much  better.  It  is  an  inser- 
tion and  scallop  combined, "with  a  "beading"  at  each  edge  of  the  inser- 
tion. Every  alternate  row  is  knit  plain,  except  the  "  beading,"  when 
the  thread  is  passed  twice  around  the  needle,  and  two  stitches  seamed 
together  every  row. 

Cast  on  twenty-nine  stitches.  First  row — Knit  two,  thread  over 
twice,  seam  two,  knit  two,  thread  over  once,  narrow,  thread  over,  nar- 
row, thread  over,  narrow,  knit  seven,  thread  over  twice,  seam  two,  knit 
two,  thread  over,  narrow,  thread  over,  narrow,  thread  over,  knit  one, 
knit  one. 


R  UGS  AND  MA  TS.  223 

Third  row — Knit  two,  thread  over  twice,  seam  two,  knit  three,  thread 
over  once,  narrow,  thread  over,  narrow,  thread  over,  narrow,  knit  six, 
thread  over  twice,  seam  two,  knit  three,  thread  over,  narrow,  thread 
over,  narrow,  thread  over,  knit  one,  knit  one. 

Fifth  row — Knit  two,  thread  over  twice,  seam  two,  knit  four,  thread 
over,  narrow,  thread  over,  narrow,  thread  over,  narrow,  knit  five,  thread 
over  twice,  seam  two,  knit  four,  thread  over,  narrow,  thread  over,  nar- 
row, thread  over,  knit  one,  knit  one. 

Seventh  row — Knit  two,  thread  over  twice,  seam  two,  knit  five,  thread 
over,  narrow,  thread  over,  narrow,  thread  over,  narrow,  knit  four,  thread 
over  twice,  seam  two,  knit  five,  thread  over,  narrow,  thread  over,  nar- 
row, thread  over,  knit  one,  knit  one. 

Ninth  row — Knit  two,  thread  over  twice,  seam  two,  knit  six,  thread 
over,  narrow,  thread  over,  narrow,  thread  over,  narrow,  knit  three, 
thread  over  twice,  seam  two,  knit  six,  thread  over,  narrow,  thread  over, 
narrow,  thread  over,  knit  one,  knit  one. 

Eleventh  row — Knit  two,  thread  over  tw^ice,  seam  two,  knit  seven, 
thread  over,  narrow,  thread  over,  narrow,  thread  over,  narrow,  knit  two, 
thread  over  twice,  seam  two,  knit  seven,  thread  over,  narrow,  thread 
over,  narrow,  thread  over,  knit  one,  knit  one. 

Twelfth  row — Slip  and  bind  until  there  are  eight  stitches  left  in  the 
scallop,  which  knit  plain,  thread  over  twice,  seam  two,  knit  fifteen, 
thread  over  twice,  seam  two,  knit  two.     This  finishes  one  scallop. 

SILK  PURSES. 

Materials  required  :  A  pair  of  No.  i8  needles,  three  skeins  of  cardi- 
nal and  two  of  old  gold  purse  silk.  Cast  on  one  hundred  and  fifty-six 
stitches  with  cardinal ;  knit  eighteen  rows  plain.  Now  take  good  silk, 
*put  thread  over,  knit  two  together,  repeat  from  *  throughout  the  row ; 
2oth  row  knit  plain.  Knit  nine  rows  in  this  manner,  then  repeat  the 
cardinal  stripe.  Alternate  cardinal  and  gold  stripes  until  the  purse, 
when  doubled,  shall  measure  four  and  a  half  inches  through  the  middle. 
Ordinary  loose  knitting  about  ten  stripes.  Draw  the  ends  up  tightly, 
sew  the  sides  together,  leaving  a  slit  in  the  center  in  which  to  put  the 
money,  and  finish  with  steel  bead  tassel  at  each  end,  and  gilt  rings. 

RUGS  AND  MATS. 

Take  two  yards  of  Brussels  carpet,  colors  to  suit  the  taste  of  the 
maker ;  cut  in  strips  three  inches  wide  and  ravel ;  knit  with  carpet 
warp  garter-stitch,  three  strips  thirty  inches  wide  and  two-thirds  of  a 
yard  long ;  put  in  a  thread  of  raveled  Brussels  at  every  other  stitch, 
every  other  row ;  when  the  three  strips  are  done,  sew  together  and  line 
the  whole  with  buckram  or  some  kind  of  stiff  canvas. 

A  very  durable  and  handsome  rug  can  be  made  by  simply  knitting 


22i  KNITTING,  CROCHET  AND  LACE, 

carpet  rags,  garter-stitch,  in  strips  of  a  color  and  width  to  suit  the  fancy, 
and  sewing  them  together.  Sewing  a  strip  across  the  ends,  of  the  same 
color  and  width  as  the  outside  strips,  will  give  the  effect  of  a  border. 
Two  sticks  a  foot  long  and  a  little  larger  than  a  slate  pencil  will  answer 
for  needles. 

This  will  also  make  a  desirable  door  mat :  Take  scraps  of  woolen, 
two  and  one-half  inches  long  and  seven-eighths  of  an  inch  wide.  A 
ball  of  the  coarsest  knitting-cotton.  Large  steel  needles.  Cast  on 
thirty-seven  stitches;  knit  garter-stitch;  knit  one  piece  in  every  stitch ; 
knit  backward  plain.  Knit  three  strips  one  yard  and  a  quarter  long 
each ;  sew  the  three  strips  together,  and  the  door  mat  is  finished. 

GENTLEMEN'S  SCARFS. 

Knit  a  chain  of  eighty-four  stitches,  then  knit  six  stitches,  the  seventh 
widen  by  knitting  twice  in  one  stitch ;  knit  six  again,  then  narrow  by 
knitting  two  stitches  together,  so  on  across  the  eighty-four  stitches ; 
back  the  same  way,  always  taking  the  outside  half  of  the  stitch  ;  finish 
with  fringe. 

INFANTS'   SACQUES. 

This  little  sacque  is  done  in  common  shell  stitch ;  it  is  easily  made, 
pretty,  and  fits  nicely.  First  make  a  chain  stitch  the  length  required 
for  the  article  to  be  made ;  then  in  every  third  stitch  make  four  treble 
crochet  stitches.  (For  a  treble  stitch  turn  the  wool  around  the  needle, 
put  it  in  a  stitch,  bring  the  wool  through  and  draw  it  through  two  locps 
twice.)  in  every  succeeding  row  make  the  shells  into  the  center  of  the 
shells  in  the  preceding  row. 

Material  for  a  Sacque  :  Two  ounces  of  white  split  zephyr,  half  an 
ounce  of  blue  or  pink  and  a  medium-sized  bone  hook.  Make  a  foun- 
dation chain,  and  on  this  twenty-four  shells  for  the  first  row  around  the 
neck.  Turn,  make  a  chain  of  two  stitches — always  do  this  at  each  end, 
so  as  not  to  draw  the  edges — and  on  the  second  row  widen  by  making 
a  shell  between  the  sixth  and  seventh  shell  from  each  end  ;  this  is  to 
shape  the  shoulder.     Always  widen  both  shoulders  alike. 

Widen  on  the  fourth  row  by  making  two  shells  in  the  center  of  the 
seventh  shell  from  the  edge ;  and  again  on  the  fifth  row  by  making  a 
shell  between  the  seventh  and  eighth  shells. 

Make  the  sixth  and  seventh  rows  without  widening,  and  on  the  eighth 
row  make  two  shells  in  the  center  of  the  eighth  shell  from  each  end. 

Ninth  row — Make  shell  between  the  eighth  and  ninth  shells.  Now 
take  the  first  six  shells  on  one  side,  and  work  back  and  forth  five  rows  for 
one  front.  Make  the  other  front  the  same.  Crochet  back  and  forth 
across  the  back  five  rows,  leaving  five  shells  for  each  shoulder,  or  the 
top  of  the  arm  hole.     Now  join  the  fronts  and  the  back,  and  work  back 


SHETLAND  WOOL  SHA  WLS,  225 

and  forth  for  ten  rows  without  widening,  and  the  body  of  the  sacque  is 
is  done. 

For  the  border,  make  a  row  of  shells  with  the  color,  around  the  neck, 
down  the  front,  across  the  bottom  and  up  the  other  front,  but  this  time 
catch  the  wool  down  between  each  shell,  and  thus  form  a  scallop. 
Second  row,  make  six  trebles  in  each  shell  and  catch  them  down 
between.  Third  row,  make  a  chain  of  three  stitches,  catch  it  into  the 
center  of  the  sheil ;  make  one  chain,  fasten  in  same  hole ;  make  two 
chains,  fasten  same  hole  ;  then  one  chain,  fasten  in  same  place ;  then 
chain  of  three  and  fasten  down  between  the  scallops.  This  makes  a 
pretty  finish  to  scallops,  with  a  little  point  on  each  one. 

The  sleeve  is  commenced  at  the  under  part  of  the  armhole  ;  should 
be  about  twelve  shells  around.  Crochet  round  and  round  until  one 
and  a  half  finders  long,  then  add  the  border.  Run  a  cord  around  the 
neck  with  tassels  made  of  the  color.  The  border  around  the  neck  may 
be  caught  down  to  form  a  little  collar.  It  is  necessary  to  crochet  rather 
loosely,  else  it  makes  the  garment  small. 

CHILDREN'S  KNIT  SKIRTS. 

Take  two  bone  needles,  Germantown  yam  in  two  shades  of  red, 
scarlet  and  cardinal.  Set  up  120  stitches.  Now,  knit  straight  across 
the  first  time.  Second  row,  narrow  first  two  stitches,  knit  five,  thread 
over,  knit  one,  thread  over,  knit  five,  narrow  twice,  knit  five,  thread  over, 
knit  one,  thread  over,  knit  five,  and  so  on  across,  narrowing  the  last 
two  stitches.  Third  row,  knit  backward.  Fourth  row,  same  as 
second.  Fifth  row,  same  as  third.  Sixth  row,  same  as  fourth. 
Seventh  row,  same  as  fifth.  Eighth  row,  knit  across  backwards. 
Ninth  row,  knit  straight  across.  Tenth  row,  same  as  eighth. 
Eleventh  row,  same  as  ninth.  The  seventh  row  completes  the  first 
part,  and  the  eleventh  the  second  part  of  the  border.  Repeat  the  two 
parts  until  the  border  is  deep  enough  to  suit  the  taste,  then  seam  two, 
knit  two  on  each  side,  making  a  ribbed  upper.  This  completes  one 
strip.  Two  strips  are  all  that  is  necessary  for  a  child  of  three  or  four 
years.  Sew  the  two  together  with  the  same  colors  of  zephyr,  leaving 
one  seam  partly  open  for  a  placquet-hole.  This  also  makes  a  very 
handsome  skirt  for  summer  when  knit  of  No.  20  knitiing  cotton. 

SHETLAND  WOOL  SHAWLS. 

This  is  the  large  size — Take  nine  ounces  of  white  and  two  ounces  of 
scarlet  Shetland  wool.  This  must  be  done  loosely  with  a  small  ivory 
crochet  hook.  Make  a  chain  of  six  stitches  for  the  foundation.  Now 
work  three  more  chains  and  do  a  treble  into  the  fourth  from  the  needle  ; 
that  is,  in  the  last  stitch  of  the  foundation.  Do  two  more  treble,  one 
15 


226  KNITTING,  CROCHET  AND  LACE. 

chain,  miss  one  loop  and  do  three  treble,  miss  one  loop  and  do  a  treble 
in  the  last  stitch. 

Second  row — Three  chain,  two  treble,  worked  into  the  hole  between 
the  first  and  second  stitches,  one  chain,  miss  three  loops  and  work  three 
treble  into  the  next  hole ;  one  chain,  one  treble  into  last  loop. 

Third  row — ^Three  chain,  two  treble  into  the  first  hole,  one  chain, 
three  treble  into  the  next  hole,  one  chain,  one  treble  into  the  last  stitch. 
You  ought  now  to  have  formed  a  small  square  mat,  and  henceforth  the 
shawl  is  very  simple.  Three  treble,  one  chain  alternately  ;  increase  at 
each  corner  by  working  three  treble,  one  chain,  three  treble  all  into  one 
hole.  The  first  round  you  will  be  obliged  to  work  into  loops,  but  after 
that  into  the  holes  formed  by  the  one  chain.  As  the  shawl  gets  larger 
you  must  do  two  instead  of  one  chain. 

For  the  border  do  five  rounds  in  scarlet,  then  ten  in  white  ;  then 
scarlet  again  for  several  inches  and  end  with  a  scallop  formed  thus  : 
One  single,  one  double,  one  treble,  one  long  treble,  two  chain,  one  long 
treble,  one  treble,  one  double  ;  repeat. 

For  a  smaller  shawl  you  will  only  require  seven  ounces  of  white 
wool  and  the  same  amount  of  scarlet,  or  they  are  pretty  knit  all  in  one 
color. 

INFANTS'  KNITTED  SHIRTS. 

With  Saxony  yarn  and  very  coarse  steel  needles,  or  fine  bone  needles 
cast  on  seventy-three  stitches.  Knit  across  once,  so  as  to  make  a  good 
edge,  and  always  slip  the  first  stitch. 

First  row — Slip  first,  slip  second,  knit  one  plain  and  draw  the  slipped 
stitch  over  it, over,  knit  one  plain,  over,  knit  one,  over,  knit  one,  over, 
knit  one,  over,  knit  one,  over,  knit  one,  over,  knit  one,  knit  two  together 
(or  narrow),  purl  one.     Repeat  from  "  slip  second"  to  end  of  row. 

Second  row — Slip  first,  purl  sixteen  stitches,  knit  one  plain,  purl 
sixteen,  knit  one  plain,  repeat  to  end  of  row. 

Third  row — Slip  first,  slip  second,  knit  one,  bind  slipped  stitch  over 
it,  knit  twelve  stitches  plain,  narrow,  purl  one  ;  repeat  from  slip  second. 

Fourth  row — Slip  first,  purl  fourteen,  knit  one  plain ;  repeat  to  end 
of  row. 

Fifth  row — Slip  first,  slip  second,  knit  one  plain,  bind  slipped  stitch 
over  it,  knit  ten  plain,  narrow,  purl  one,  and  repeat  from  slip  second. 

Sixth  row — Slip  first,  purl  ten,  purl  two  together,  knit  one  plain,  purl 
ten,  purl  two  together,  knit  one  plain  ;  repeat  to  end  of  row. 

This  makes  the  whole  pattern,  and  when  done  leaves  the  original 
seventy-three  stitches.  It  is  to  be  repeated  six  times,  which  forms  the 
bottom  part  of  the  shirt  body.  Now  knit  two  and  purl  two  back  and 
forth,  which  makes  ribbed  knitting,  until  the  shirt  is  nine  inches  long. 
Now  knit  a  row  in  this  way  :  Slip  one,  over,  narrow,  one  plain,  over,  nar- 
row, one  plain,  etc.,  to  end  of  row,  and  knit  next  row  back  plain,  and 
cast  off.     This  makes  a  row  of  holes,  through  which  a  ribbon  is  drawn. 


LADIES'  BEDROOM  SLIPPERS.  22T 

Seventy  stitches  are  enough  for  the  ribbed  part,  and  the  three  extra 
stitches  may  be  narrowed  off  in  the  first  ribbed  row.  Knit  two  pieces 
like  the  above  and  sew  them  together  with  the  wool,  leaving  the  side 
seams  open,  four  and  one-half  inches  from  the  top  for  the  sleeve.  Any 
pretty  lace  pattern  of  thirteen  to  fifteen  stitches  will  do  for  this.  After 
knitting  twelve  points,  knit  about  fourteen  or  fifteen  rows  plain,  which 
will  make  a  little  square  piece  on  the  end ;  this  is  for  a  gusset,  and  is  to 
be  sewed  to  the  other  end  like  any  gusset  in  a  chemise  sleeve.  Then 
sew  it  into  the  place  left  in  the  side  seam,  with  the  point  set  where  the 
seam  was  left  open. 

LADIES'  BEDROOM  SLIPPERS. 

Two  ounces  double  Berlin  wool  and  ivory  crochet  hook.  Very  pretty 
in  light  blue,  pink  or  scarlet.  Make  a  chain  of  twelve  stitches,  turn 
and  work  into  the  first  from  the  hook,  in  double  crochet ;  the  same  into 
every  loop.  Second  loop,  double  crochet  into  every  loop  ;  in  the  center 
stitch  you  must  increase  by  working  three  into  one  ;  crochet  into  the 
back  part  of  the  stitch  so  as  to  make  the  work  lie  in  ridges  ;  every  row 
is  alike,  but  do  not  forget  to  increase  in  the  middle. 

When  thirty  ridges  are  done  (or  less  for  a  small  foot),  begin  the  sides 
of  the  slipper  thus :  Sixty-first  row,  work  eighteen  stitches  as  usual 
in  double  crochet ;  now  turn  and  work  backwstrds  and  forwards  on  these 
stitches  until  the  shoe  is  long  enough ;  end  off  and  go  on  at  the  other 
side.     Sew  together  at  the  heel. 

•  Or  this :  Commence  the  slippers  at  the  toe  with  blue  wool ;  cast  on 
ten  stitches,  and  increase  by  pulling  the  wool  forward  after  the  first 
stitch  and  before  the  last  one  of  each  alternate  row.  When  knitting 
each  alternate  row,  pass  the  white  wool  between  every  stitch,  leaving  a 
loop  of  about  an  inch  on  one  side  and  drawing  it  tight  on  the  other 
side.  In  knitting  the  intervening  rows,  the  white  wool  is  not  used,  but 
is  drawn  straight  across  the  work  when  required  to  commence  the  next 
row.  Continue  to  knit  backwards  and  forwards  until  the  slipper  is 
wide  enough  across  the  instep  ;  then  divide  the  stitches,  cast  off  ten 
stitches  in  the  center;  with  the  third  pin  continue  to  work  as  before 
without  increase,  until  you  have  made  the  length  from  the  instep  to 
the  back  of  the  heel ;  cast  off  and  work  the  other  side  in  the  same 
manner.  Line  them  with  quilted  silk  or  satin  or  cashmere,  and  join  at 
the  sole  (which  you  can  procure  at  any  shoemaker's),  with  galloon. 
First  sew  the  lining  and  shoe  both  together  to  one  edge  of  the  galloon, 
then  bind  the  sole  with  the  latter.  Finish  off  the  shoe  with  a  pleating 
of  ribbon  around  the  top,  and  rosette  or  bow  of  silk  or  satin  the  color 
of  the  slipper.     Very  pretty  and  warm. 


228  KNITTING,  CROCHET  AND  LACE, 


BABIES'  KNITTED  STOCKINGS. 

Cast  on  fifty-six  stitches,  knit  two  plain,  purl  two  to  the  end  of  row ; 
continue  this  for  twelve  rows.  The  next  twenty  rows  are  to  be  knitted 
plain,  with  the  exception  of  a  purl  stitch  in  the  center  of  one  of  the 
needles  for  the  seam.  To  begin  lessening,  take  in  a  stitch  each  side  of 
the  seam  every  fourth  row,  until  you  have  thirty-eight  stitches  on  the 
needles.  Knit  the  next  eighteen  rows  plain.  Then  divide  the  stitches 
for  the  heel,  leaving  twenty  on  the  seam  needle ;  knit  forward  plain 
and  backward  purled  on  this  needle  for  eighteen  rows.  To  finish  the 
heel,  knit  thirteen  stitches  plain,  take  in  a  stitch  by  knitting  two 
together,  one  plain,  turn,  four  plain,  take  in  a  stitch,  one  plain,  turn, 
star,  repeat  from  star  to  the  end  of  needle.  Take  up  the  stitches  each 
side  of  the  heel  for  the  foot ;  decrease  once  every  other  row  on  the 
side  needles  till  you  have  thirty-six  stitches  ;  knit  eighteen  rows  plain. 
Begin  the  toe  by  taking  in  a  stitch  at  the  first  and  last  of  the  front 
needle,  and  at  the  front  of  the  side  needles,  every  alternate  row,  until 
only  fourteen  stitches  are  remaining;  slip  these  off  by  knitting  two 
together,  and  the  stocking  is  completed. 

BATHING  TOWELS. 

Take  No.  12  knitting  wooden  pins  and  coarse  cotton,  and  cast  on 
ninety  stitches.  Knit  216  rows.  Cast  off  then  and  next  take  lengths  of 
cotton  eight  inches  long,  tie  together  in  a  round  and  draw  the  loops 
through  the  last  row  of  stitches,  slipping  the  ends  through  the  loop.    • 

LADIES'  OVERSHOE- 

To  slip  on  over  their  slippers  in  the  house,  or  in  going  to  parties: 
Use  double  zephyr  chain  of  eighteen  stitches  ;  crochet  like  slipper  for 
seventeen  rows ;  halve  this  work  then,  and  crochet  separately  each  half 
thirty-eight  rows  more.  In  each  of  the  next  twelve  rows  widen  the  first 
stitch  on  the  edge  nearest  the  middle  of  front,  and  in  the  thirteenth  and 
fourteenth  widen,  three  stitches  there.  In  the  twenty-eighth  to  the 
thirty-fifth,  narrow  one  stitch  on  the  same  edge.  Narrow  the  thirty- 
sixth  row  ten  stitches  ;  the  thirty- seventh  row  five  stitches;  thirty-eighth 
row,  three  stitches — join  at  the  heel  and  sew  together,  and  on  soles  like 
the  slipper  pattern.  Bind  upper  and  front  with  colored  braid  to  match, 
and  crochet  edge  of  six  treble,  one  double.     Fasten  with  ribbon. 

KNIT  WRISTLETS. 

Cast  on  twenty-two  stitches  on  each  of  three  needles  ;  first  row,  star, 
purl  two,  knit  one  back  stitch,  by  slipping  the  needle  at  the  back  instead 
of  the  front  of  the  stitch;  pass  three  stitches  on  to  a  third  needle, 
always  keeping  that  needle  in  front ;  knit  the  three  next  stitches,  then 


THE  LAUNDRY.  229 

knit  the  three  stitches  that  were  passed  on  the  third  needle,  two  purl, 
one  back  stitch  ;  repeat  from  second  row  to  the  end  of  row ;  star  ;  two 
purl,  one  back  stitch ;  two  purl,  six  plain  ;  repeat  from  star  to  the  end  of 
row.  The  fifth  needle  is  only  to  be  used  every  seventh  row.  When 
you  have  the  desired  length,  cast  off  the  stitches  and  crochet  a  fancy 
edge. 

KNITTED  WASH  CLOTHS. 

Cast  on  fifty  or  sixty  stitches  on  medium  sized  knitting  needles,  using 
two,  and  No.  12  knitting  cotton.  Put  needle  in  first  stitch,  thread  over 
tevice  and  knit  the  stitch.  Continue  so  all  the  way  across,  knitting  back  ; 
knit  first  stitch,  dropping  the  next,  which  is  the  loop,  and  so  continue 
across ;  then  commence  as  before,  by  putting  needle  in  stitch,  thread 
over  twice,  and  knitting.  It  can  he  finished  by  crocheting  a  large  scal- 
lop around.     They  are  very  nice,  and  wear  well  too. 


THE  LAUNDRY. 

WASHING  MADE  EASY. 

Monday  is  the  washing  day  of  all  good  housekeepers.  On  this  day 
get  dinner  as  easily  as  possible,  not  a  picked-up  one,  but  one  that  can 
be  cooked  with  little  trouble  and  that  does  not  occupy  much  room  on 
the  stove.  Have  baked  potatoes,  a  roast  of  meat,  boiled  rice,  stewed 
corn  or  tomatoes,  and  for  dessert,  baked  apples  and  cream,  pie,  or  some- 
thing easily  prepared. 

When  changing  the  bed  clothes  Saturday  morning — do  not  wait  until 
Monday  to  change  them,  but  have  the  beds  fresh  and  clean  for  Sunday — 
sort  them,  separating  the  fine  from  the  coarse  and  the  dirty  ones  from 
those  less  dirty. 

Soak  them  over  night  in  warm  water,  with  plenty  of  good  washing 
soap.  The  next  morning  wash  them  from  the  water  (with  a  little  hot 
poured  in)  into  another  of^very  hot  water.  If  two  can  work  at  this  it 
will  be  a  much  shorter  method.  Rub  these  out  and  put  into  a  third 
tub  ;  pour  hot  water  on  these  to  scald  them.  Then  wring  them  into  a 
tub  of  clear  blued  water — an  indigo  bag  is  better  than  all  the  patent 
bluing — and  the  clothes  will  be  beautifully  clean  and  white.  Of  course 
it  will  not  be  necessary  to  have,  four  tubs  ;  two  will  be  enough,  and  if 
you  have  a  good  wringer,  it  will  not  take  long  to  do  out  quite  a  large 
washing.  There  is  a  great  difference  in  wringers,  and  each  time  they 
are  used,  they  should  be  dried  carefully  and  a  drop  of  oil  put  on  the  cogs 
or  wheels.  Then  if  the  clothes  are  taken  down  at  night  and  sprinkled 
well,  they  will  iron  easily.     The  best  sprinkler  is  a  wisp  broom,  kept  for 


230  THE  LA  UNDR  V. 

this  purpose  only.     This  sprinkles  effectually  and  evenly,  without  a  pool 
of  water  in  one  place  and  none  in  others. 

Here  is  another  way  to  wash  clothes  with  a  small  outlay  of  strength  : 
Sort  them,  fine  in  one  tub,  coarse  in  another,  pour  soft  water  enough 
over  them  (perfectly  cold)  to  saturate,  without  surplus.  Take  one  cup 
of  sal  soda,  and  half  a  bar  of  soap  shaved  into  two  gallons  of  water ; 
boil  until  both  ingredients  are  dissolved.  Take  one  and  a  half  gallons 
of  the  fluid  and  pour  over  the  first  tub,  hot ;  let  it  stand  for  about  twenty 
minutes,  you  can  then  wash  them  clean  with  your  hands.  Rinse  in 
plenty  of  water  three  times,  having  the  last  two  blued  a  little ;  pour  the 
suds  from  the  first  tub  over  the  coarse  clothes,  add  the  rest  of  your 
fluid  hot  and  let  them  stand  while  rinsing  and  hanging  out  the  fine 
things.  Don't  use  any  scalding  water  and  your  clothes  will  be  dazzlingly 
white.  Scalding  water  gives  a  grey  tint.  For  the  calicoes  use  borax  in 
place  of  the  soda. 

ERADICATING  FRUIT  STAINS. 

Fruit  stains  will  sometimes  yield  to  cold  water ;  cherry  stains,  for 
example.  Others  require  boiling  water,  and  still  others  some  bleaching 
agent.  The  most  convenient  material  is  Javelle  water,  generally  kept 
by  druggists.  To  make  it,  dissolve  one  pound  of  saleratus  in  a  pint  of 
water ;  mix  four  ounces  of  fresh  chloride  of  lime  with  one  pint  of  water, 
stirring"  to  remove  the  lumps — it  will  not  all  dissolve.  Pour  the  two 
liquids  together,  stir  or  shake  thoroughly,  set  aside,  and  when  the 
deposit  has  settled  pour  off  the  perfectly  clear  liquid,  and  bottle  for  use. 
Glass  or  earthern  vessels  should  be  used  in  preparmg  it.  Wet  the 
stains  with  this  and  rinse  well,  just  before  washing  the  articles.  It  can, 
of  course,  only  be  used  on  white  articles,  as  it  would  bleach  colored 
ones.  Stains  from  fabrics  may  be  removed  by  moistening  the  spot  with 
a  solution  of  Epsom  salts  in  a  few  drops  of  hot  water.  Rub  it  well  the 
first  time  and  then  moisten  again.  Next,  fill  a  tin  vessel  with  boiling 
water,  and  set  it  on  the  stained  place  for  a  few  minutes,  and  afterwards 
wash  out  in  soft  water.  It  is  advisable  to  have  articles  thus  treated 
washed  immediately.  To  remove  grass  stains  pour  boiling  hot  water 
on  the  stains  before  washing  the  garment. 

CLEAR  STARCHING. 

Dissolve  two  tablespoonfuls  of  starch  in  a  little  cold  water ;  when  it 
is  a  smooth  paste,  pour  in  boiling  water  slowly,  and  stir  briskly  to  keep 
from  lumping.  The  exact  quantity  of  water  will  depend  on  the  quality 
of  starch,  a  pint  to  each  ounce  is  a  fair  average ;  add  a  good  teaspoon-' 
ful  of  salt,  a  drop  of  bluing,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  lard.  (Mem. 
For  colored  goods  put  a  little  alum  in  the  starch.)  Boil  for  twenty 
minutes  by  the  clock.     A  clean  bright  pan  and  spoon  should  be  kept 


CLEAR  STARCHING.  231 

purposely  for  making  starch.  Strain,  if  not  perfectly  smooth  when 
done,  and  if  it  has  to  stand  before  using,  cover  the  pan  to  prevent  a 
scum  forming,  and  keep  it  hot.  It  should  be  used  as  hot  as  the  hand 
can  possibly  bear,  in  order  that  it  may  better  penetrate  the  linen ;  for 
the  same  reason  the  starch  must  not  be  made  too  thick.  It  must  be 
rubbed  in  until  the  linen  is  completely  saturated,  and  none  is  left  unab- 
sorbed  on  the  surface.  In  mild  weather  starch  the  clothes  from  the 
rinsing  water ;  in  cold  or  windy  weather  dry  them  first,  as  both  wind 
and  frost  snap  out  the  stiffness. 

Starch  for  Collars  and  Cuffs  made  in  this  way  is  far  superior  to 
white  wax,  spermaceti  and  gum  arable,  and  also  less  expensive :  To 
one  quart  of  boiled  starch,  put  a  piece  of  paraffine  the  size  of  a  hazel 
nut ;  cook  the  starch  thoroughly,  and  do  not  have  it  but  little  thicker 
than  pancake  batter.  In  the  winter  dry  the  shirts  and  collars  before 
starching,  as  considerable  of  the  starch  will  freeze  out ;  use  the  starch 
scalding  hot,  dipping  it  on  the  bosom  with  a  spoon ;  rub  in  each  spoon- 
ful with  your  hands ;  when  the  shirts  are  dry,  dip  in  cold  starch  made  by 
taking  a  large  tablespoonful  of  starch,  and  mix  smooth  in  a  little  cold 
water ;  then  take  a  piece  of  borax  the  size  of  a  Lima  bean,  dissolve  in  a 
little  boiling  water  and  add  starch;  then  add  sufficient  cold  water  to  just 
dip  the  bosoms  in  and  no  more ;  rub  the  starch  in  well.  The  cold 
starch  is  much  improved  by  letting  it  stand  over  night  before  using. 
After  starching  the  shirts  and  collars,  roll  them  up  tightly  in  a  clean  dry 
cloth  and  in  two  hours  they  will  be  ready  to  iron. 

Gum  Arabic  Starch  :  Take  two  ounces  fine  white  gum  arable  and 
pound  to  a  powder ;  next  put  it  into  a  pitcher  and  pour  on  a  pint  or 
more  of  boiling  water,  according  to  the  degree  of  strength  required, 
and  then  having  covered,  let  it  stand  all  night.  In  the  morning  pour 
it  carefully  from  the  dregs  into  a  clean  bottle  ;  cork  and  keep  it  for  use. 
A  tablespoonful  of  gum  water  stirred  into  a  pint  of  starch  that  has  been 
made  in  the  usual  manner  will  give  to  lawns  (either  white  or  printed)  a 
look  of  newness  to  which  nothing  else  can  restore  them  after  washing. 

Superior  Starch  Polish  :  Take  of  white  wax  one  ounce,  spermaceti 
two  ounces  and  a  good  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  and  melt  them  together,  and 
when  cold  it  will  be  a  hard,  white  cake  that  will  not  mould  or  sour 
even  in  hot  weather.  Put  a  piece  the  size  of  a  pea  in  the  hot  starch 
that  is  intended  for  every  three  or  four  shirts.  When  ironing  go  over 
it  a  second  time  quickly,  which  increases  the  gloss  or  polish. 

Potato  Starch  :  Grate  six  medium-sized  potatoes  and  mix  thoroughly 
with  one  gallon  of  water  ;  strain  through  a  coarse  towel,  let  settle,  drain 
off  the  water  and  turn  on  another  gallon  of  clear  water  and  let  settle 
again ;  drain  again,  put  in  an  earthern  dish  and  set  in  a  warm  place 
(not  too  warm)  to  dry.     Use  same  as  corn-starch  for  starching  clothes. 

Raw  Starch  for  Collars  and  Cuffs  should  be  mixed  very  gradually, 


THE  LAUNDRY, 

one  tablespoonful  of  white  starch  with  half  a  pint  of  cold  water ;  dis- 
solve a  small  piece  of  lump  borax  about  the  size  of  the  tip  of  a  finger  in 
hot  water ;  when  cold  stir  it  into  the  starch.  Put  the  collars  into  the 
starch,  rub  them  up  and  down  in  it,  squeeze  and  press  them  in  a 
cloth ;  smooth  them  well  out  with  a  soft  piece  of  linen,  and  iron  imme- 
diately, first  with  a  flat-iron,  then  with  a  polishing-iron.  And  to  those 
who  make  up  their  own  fine  linen,  we  can  highly  recommend  the  fol- 
lowing plan  :  Let  the  collars  be  washed,  blued  and  dried ;  then  take  two 
large  tablespoonfuls  of  ordinary  starch  and  blend  in  cold  water  till  there 
is  about  a  breakfast-cupful  of  it.  Dip  your  collars  through  it  without 
going  to  the  sediment ;  wring  dry  and  lay  them  in  a  clean  towel  for  two 
or  three  hours ;  then  draw  them  and  iron  them,  and  they  will  be  stiff 
and  glazed. 

To  Stiffen  Gauze.  Good  wheat  starch  and  white  wax  are  employed^ 
either  cold  or  warm,  g.ccording  to  the  color.  The  gauze  on  removal 
from  the  starch  is  perfectly  untwisted,  pressed  out,  and  clapped  with 
the  hands,  so  that  the  starch  may  be  uniformly  distributed.  Any 
meshes  that  may  still  appear  filled  with  starch  may  be  free  from  it  when 
the  gauze  is  stretched  on  the  drying-pad  by  brushing  it  with  the  hand, 
or,  better,  with  a  soft  brush.  Small  starched  pieces  can  also  be  placed 
on  the  finishing-board,  since  the  starch  remaining  in  any  meshes  will 
stick  to  the  cloth  when  the  gauze  is  removed.  In  this  case,  however,  it 
will  unavoidably  have  a  spotted  luster  on  the  side  ^ext  the  cloth. 

After  starching  shirts,  collars  and  cuffs,  and  the  articles  that  require 
a  deal  of  stiffening,  pour  in  some  hot  water  and  starch  your  pillow- 
slips, white  aprons,  etc.  Wring  out  the  remainder  of  your  clothes 
except  the  tablecloths,  napkins  and  towels,  pour  your  starch  in  the 
bluing  water  and  it  will  give  these  articles  just  the  right  stiffness. 

IRONING  AND  POLISHING. 

Dampen  the  clothes  the  night  before  ironing,  being  careful  to  sprinkle 
them  evenly.  A  perforated  sprinkler  (made  like  a  pepper-box,  only 
large  enough  to  hold  half  a  pint  of  water,  with  larger  perforations  and 
a  handle),  or  wisp-broom,  will  sprinkle  them  more  equally  than  with  the 
hand.  If  the  table  is  sprinkled  with  water  the  ironing  sheet  will  not 
slip.  A  good  ironing  sheet  has  woolen  next  the  table  and  cotton  on 
top  of  that.  An  ironing  board  and  bosom  board  is  very  necessar)^  if 
one  wants  to  make  a  successful  ironer,  one  for  skirts  and  one  for  shirt- 
bosoms. 

Before  commencing  to  iron,  be  sure  the  clothes  are  wet  through,  give 
them  a  good  straightening  out  and  commence  to  iron.  Have  the  irons 
well  cleaned,  a  piece  of  sand-paper  is  good  to  occasionally  rub  them 
upon.  If  rusty,  beeswax  and  salt  will  make  them  clean  and  smooth  as 
glass.     Tie  a  lump  of  beeswax  in  a  cloth  and  keep  it  for  that  purpose. 


IRONING  AND  POLISHING.  233 

When  the  irons  are  hot,  rub  them  first  with  the  wax  cloth,  then 
scour  with  a  paper  or  cloth  sprinkled  with  salt. 

The  polishing  iron  must  be  used  quickly  and  lightly.  A  nickel-plated 
one  is  best,  and  care  should  be  taken  never  to  let  it  become  too  hot. 

For  ironing,  two  bosom  boards  are  required,  one  with  several  thick- 
nesses of  cloth  to  iron  the  bosom  on,  and  the  other  must  be  a  hardwood 
board,  planed  and  sand-papered  as  smooth  as  possible  to  polish  on. 
You  can  use  this  without  any  cloth  on,  but  it  is  better  to  have  one  thick- 
ness of  cotton-cloth  stretched  tightly  over  it.  Iron  the  body  and  sleeves 
of  the  shirt  first,  then  put  the  bosom  in  shape,  wring  a  clean  cloth  out 
of  hot  water  and  rub  the  bosom  well  with  it  to  remove  any  starch  that 
has  not  been  rubbed  in,  then  iron  quickly  with  a  hot  smoothing  iron ; 
lift  the  plaits  with  a  case  knife  and  iron  over  again  ;  do  not  iron  per- 
fectly dry  and  stiff,  and  do  not  attempt  to  put  on  a  polish  with  the 
smoothing  iron,  but  quickly  take  out  the  bosom  board  and  insert  the 
polishing  board,  wring  the  cloth  quite  dry  out  of  the  hot  water  and  rub 
over  the  bosom ;  then  polish  with  the  round  point  of  the  polishing  iron 
(which  must  be  hot  enough  to  scorch  if  you  set  it  down  flat,  but  of 
course  you  must  not  do  that).  You  must  rub  backwards  and  forwards 
with  the  point  of  the  iron,  a  small  place  at  a  time,  and  one  will  soon 
get  so  they  can  do  up  a  shirt  very  nicely,  but  do  not  rub  too  hard  or 
else  you  will  raise  blisters,  and  that  will  spoil  the  appearance  of  the 
shirt.  The  oftener  you  rub  the  bosom  over  with  the  damp  cloth  and 
polish  again  the  better  it  looks.  After  polishing  hang  in  the  sun  or  near 
the  stove  to  dry. 

Or  this  :  When  ready  to  iron  wet  the  linen  in  thin  cold  starch  and 
roll  up  for  a  little  while ;  then  unfold  and  rub  the  linen  with  a  wet  cloth 
to  clear  it  of  any  bits  of  starch  on  the  surface.  Do  not  have  the  linen 
very  damp,  as  the  iron  is  more  apt  to  stick.  Iron  on  an  ironing-board, 
first  going  over  the  linen  with  a  common  iron,  then  take  the  bosom- 
board  to  polish  on.  This  board  should  be  of  hard  wood,  covered  with 
two  thicknesses  of  cotton  cloth.  Dissolve  one  teaspoonf ul  of  white  gum 
arable  in  half  a  cup  of  water — it  must  be  free  from  color  and  sediment ; 
if  too  thick  it  will  stick.  A  polishing  iron  is  indispensable.  Wet  a  little 
piece  of  old  linen  with  the  gum  water — not  dripping  wet — and  rub 
quickly  over  a  part  of  the  linen  and  pass  the  polishing  iron  directly  over 
it,  so  that  it  will  not  blister ;  then  take  the  round  end  of  the  iron  and 
polish  with  all  your  muscles.  Continue  to  wet  with  arabic  and  polish 
over  and  over  again  until  satisfied  with  the  work.  Set  the  bosom  board 
to  dry  after  ironing  each  bosom.  Bosoms  starched  in  this  way  will  not 
break.  The  polishing-iron  must  be  as  hot  as  it  can  be  and  not  scorch. 
Wash  the  irons  after  using,  and  polish  them  with  fine  bath  brick  dust 
on  brown  paper,  and  wax  them  with  white  wax  while  using.  Sand- 
paper is  the  best  polisher  for  smoothing-irons.  It  removes  all  rough- 
ness and  starch. 


234  THE  LA  UNDR  Y, 

If  linen  is  slightly  scorched  in  ironing,  laying  it  in  the  sun  awhile  will 
take  out  the  discolored  spots.  If  badly  scorched,  peel  and  slice  two 
onions ;  extract  the  juice  by  pounding  and  squeezing ;  cut  up  half  an 
ounce  of  fine  white  soap  and  add  to  the  juice ;  two  ounces  of  fuller's 
earth  and  half  a  pint  of  vinegar ;  boil  all  together ;  when  cool  spread 
over  the  scorched  linen  and  let  it  dry  on  it ;  then  wash  and  boil  out  the 
linen  and  the  spots  will  disappear,  unless  burned  so  badly  as  to  break 
the  threads. 

Do  not  iron  a  red  tablecloth  at  all ;  wash  it  carefully  in  warm  suds 
(not  hot),  rinse  well,  and  when  ready  to  hang  on  the  line  take  great 
pains  to  pull  it  so  that  it  will  keep  the  proper  shape.  It  will  retain  its 
color  much  longer  than  if  ironed. 

Never  iron  a  calico  dress  on  the  right  side ;  if  ironed  smoothly  on  the 
wrong  side  there  will  be  no  danger  of  white  spots  and  gloss,  which  give 
a  new  dress  "  done  up  "  for  the  first  time,  the  appearance  of  a  time-worn 
garment. 

But  remember  that  the  principal  part  of  glossing  lies  in  the  manner  of 
ironing  and  kind  of  irons  used.  Round-heeled  irons  give  the  best  pol- 
ish, and  the  hotter  the  better.  Invert  irons,  as  the  heel  must  be  used, 
otherwise  there  will  be  no  more  than  a  high  domestic  polish.  Covering 
for  bosom  board  should  be,  first  one  thickness  of  cloth,  then  a  doubled 
piece  of  common  muslin,  each  drawn  as  tightly  as  possible,  which  will 
give  an  even  and  hard  surface.  Iron  collars  and  cuffs  on  wrong  side ; 
turn  and  with  wet  rag  very  slightly  dampen  :  with  heel  of  hot  iron  give 
sharp,  quick  rubs  across  narrow  part  to  even  starch ;  then,  if  iron  is 
round-heeled,  rub  straight  from  end  to  end ;  if  iron  is  flat-heeled,  give 
the  heel  of  iron  a  twisting  motion;  dampen  slightly  as  required  to 
heighten  gloss. 

WASHING  FINE  THINGS. 

For  Ordinary  Muslin  Collars  and  cuffs,  tuckers,  dress  handker- 
chiefs, gentlemen's  white  neckties,  and  other  things  which  are  not  much 
soiled,  proceed  as  follows  :  Put  them  in  soak  over  night ;  in  the  morn- 
ing wash  them  well  with  hot  soap  and  water,  rinse  in  cold  water,  slightly 
blued,  dry  them  and  dip  once  more  in  cold  water,  wringing  them  well. 
This  makes  them  clear  yet  stiff.  Fold  them  evenly,  put  them  in  a  towel 
and  iron  them.  Babies'  dresses,  etc..  which  are  more  soiled,  can  be 
treated  much  in  the  same  way,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  borax  in  the 
water  to  loosen  the  dirt,  and  they  must  be  boiled  afterwards. 

Lace  and  Muslin  Caps  and  other  articles  which  are  much  worn 
sometimes  become  very  dirty.  In  this  case  they  should  be  put  in  a  basin 
with  shredded  soap,  and  well  covered  with  water  and  allowed  to  stand 
from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  A  plate  should  be 
laid  over  the  basin  to  keep  in  the  steam.  After  this,  they  will  require  a 
great  deal  of  rinsing  to  get  rid  of  the  dirt,  and  sometimes  it  may  be 


WASHING  FINE  THINGS.  235 

necessary  to  put  them  in  a  pan  full  of  cold  water,  and  leave  it  on  the 
fire  till  the  water  simmers. 

Muslin  Curtains  should  be  first  soaked  in  cold  water.  In  washing  it 
is  better  to  squeeze  them  with  the  hand  rather  than  to  rub  them  ;  they 
should  be  rinsed  in  blue  water,  starched  and  dried.  Many  people  pin 
them  out  carefully  on  a  sheet  stretched  on  the  floor,  and  do  not  iron 
them ;  or  they  may  be  stretched  out  on  a  frame. 

For  Making  Thin  Muslin  Clear,  it  will  be  found  an  excellent  plan 
to  beat  up  to  a  froth  the  lather  in  which  it  is  to  be  washed,  merely 
squeezing  and  pressing  it  with  the  hand,  and  not  rubbing  it ;  then,  when 
quite  dry,  having  passed  it  through  the  starch,  mixed  with  gum  arable 
water,  dry  it  once  more ;  dip  it  into  clear  water,  and  clap  it  well  with 
the  hands  to  clear  it  until  it  is  dry.  If  this  be  carefully  done,  the  mus- 
lin will  look  equal  to  new,  the  gum  arabic  giving  it  a  bright,  clear 
appearance. 

To  Prepare  Gmn  Water  for  mixing  with  starch,  pour  one  pint  of 
boiling  water  on  two  ounces  of  gum  arabic,  cover  it,  and  let  it  stand 
twelve  hours ;  pour  it  from  the  dregs  and  bottle  for  use.  This  will  be 
found  useful  for  sprinkling  washing  dresses  which  have  to  be  ironed 
only  in  course  of  wearing,  and  not  washed. 

When  muslin  dresses  are  trimmed  with  plaitings,  a  piece  of  flannel  is 
laid  between  the  skirt  and  the  flounce,  so  that  they  do  not  stick  together 
in  ironing. 

Shawls  and  Large  Pieces  must  be  pinned  out  straight  and  square  on 
a  sheet.  This  must  be  carefully  done,  and  each  strand  of  the  fringe 
should  be  passed  through  the  hand,  straightened  and  pulled  out  care- 
fully. If  they  are  required  slightly  stiffened,  dip  them  in  one  pint  and  a 
half  of  warm  water  in  which  one  tablespoonful  of  gum  arabic  has  been 
dissolved ;  but  they  should  not  be  made  too  stiff.  Scarfs  and  other 
small  articles  in  Shetland  wool  may  be  dried  by  holding  before  the  fire, 
pulling  and  shaking  them  out  all  the  time. 

To  Wash  White  Merino,  alpaca,  etc.,  if  soap  is  used,  the  ordinary 
plan  above  described  for  ordinary  woolen  goods  is  pursued.  The 
quicker  the  operation  is  carried  out  the  less  danger  will  there  be  of  the 
stuff  becoming  yellow.  Bran  is  often  used  for  this  class  of  goods 
instead  of  soap,  a  lather  being  made  of  one  pound  of  bran,  tied  up  in 
muslin,  boiled  in  two  gallons  of  water,  blue  being  added  to  the  rinsing 
water.  Another  plan  is  to  grate  three  large  potatoes  in  one  pint  of 
water,  and  let  it  stand  some  hours ;  then  pour  off  the  clear  liquid  and 
sponge  the  material  well  with  it,  subsequently  dipping  it  in  fresh  water. 
When  these  white  materials  are  ironed,  and  not  mangled,  it  must 
always  be  with  muslin  between,  and  they  should  be  rolled  in  a  cloth. 

With  Regard  to  Woolen  Things,  the  chief  difference  in  the  mode  of 
washing  is  that  no  blue  is  employed,  and  it  is  more  than  ever  impera- 


236  THE  LAUNDRY. 

tive  that  no  soap  be  rubbed  on  them.  They  must  be  carefully  dried  in 
the  shade  ;  very  delicate  colors  in  the  dark.  The  chief,  cause  of  colors 
running  is  that  the  things  are  allowed  to  lie  about  damp,  and  are  not 
dried  quickly  enough.  The  usual  method  of  setting  colors  is  to  put  a 
handful  of  salt  in  the  tub  of  rinsing  water,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  ox-gall 
stirred  in  the  lather,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  in  the  rinsing  water 
will  have  the  same  effect.  White  and  colored  flannels  must  on  no 
account  be  washed  together.  Woolen  dresses,  and  also  curtains,  must 
be  taken  from  the  gathers  before  washing. 

DOING  UP  LACES  AND  CURTAINS. 

Fine  Laces  may  be  carefully  washed,  and  with  much  more  satisfac- 
tion  than  if  sent  to  a  lace  renovator  or  washer,  by  making  a  strong  soap 
suds  and  filling  a  shallow  platter  full  of  the  soapy  water.  Then  double 
the  lace  and  lay  it  in  the  water  so  that  every  part  is  completely 
covered.  Put  this  out  in  the  sun  for  a  couple  of  days,  changing  the 
water  several  times  during  the  day.  Lift  it  out  carefully  each  time 
and  do  not  wring  or  rinse  it.  When  completely  clean  stretch  it  on  a 
piece  of  white  cloth  in  the  house,  carefully  pulling  it  before  it  gets 
quite  dry.  Smoothing  it  carefully  with  the  thin  blade  of  a  fruit  knife 
will  improve  its  looks,  but  never  iron  or  starch  it.  If  it  is  a  kind  of  lace 
that  should  be  a  little  stiff,  put  the  least  bit  of  gum  arable  in  the  last 
water,  or  a  little  sugar.  Even  if  you  only  put  it  in  the  soapsuds  and 
dry  it,  it  will  look  ver}^  nicely.  Gasoline  washes  silk  laces  very  nicely, 
as  it  also  does  ribbons,  handkerchiefs  and  silk  stockings. 

Edgings :  Cover  the  outside  of  a  large  glass  bottle  smoothly  with 
soft  white  cotton,  linen  or  flannel.  Wrap  the  lace  around  it,  basting 
each  edge  carefully  with  very  fine  thread.  Fasten  a  piece  of  thin  mus- 
lin or  net  over  the  outside  of  the  lace.  Soak  the  bottle  in  tepid  water 
for  an  hour  or  two,  then  wash  in  soapsuds  until  clean,  after  which  lay  it 
in  clean  water  for  twelve  hours,  changing  it  once  or  twice  during  that 
time.  To  finish,  take  it  from  the  water  and  dr}'  by  wrapping  in  a  towel, 
then  dip  the  bottle  into  rice  water  and  roll  it  in  a  fresh  towel.  While 
still  damp  take  the  lace  carefully  from  the  bottle,  and  placing  it  between 
clean  white  cloths  iron  until  completely  dry. 

For  Valenciennes  or  Thread.  Take  a  large-necked  bottle,  fill  with 
rain  water,  put  in  the  laces  with  a  piece  of  castile  soap,  and  leave  them  to 
soak  well,  strongly  shaking  the  bottle  now  and  then.  When  well 
washed  put  the  laces  in  clear  water  with  a  little  bluing  and  gum  arable  ; 
then  wring  slightly.  Do  not  iron,  but  lay  them  in  the  sun  on  a  stiff 
cloth  with  a  pin  in  each  loop.  For  Valenciennes,  rinse  them  in  weak 
coffee  with  a  little  gum  arable  ;  dry  the  same  way. 

If  too  white  dip  in  saffron  water.  Laces  dipped  in  a  weak  solution  of 
saffron  water  (saffron  with  boiling  water  poured  over  it),  can  be  tinted 
any  color  from  a  pale  cream  to  the  deepest  yellow. 


DOIXG  UP  LACES  AND  CURTAINS.  237 

For  Point  Lace.  Procure  a  smooth  deal  board  three-fourths  of  an 
inch  thick,  about  eighteen  long  by  fourteen  inches  wide ;  envelope  it  in 
fine  cotton  cloth,  drawn  tightly-  and  smoothly  over  it  and  seamed  at  the 
edges  to  keep  it  firm.  Lay  out  the  lace  upon  this  in  its  proper  shape, 
without  any  undue  stretching,  and  tack  it  closely  all  around  the  edge  to 
the  cotton,  and  a  few  stitches  here  and  there  in  the  middle  to  keep  it 
firm.  If  a  long  piece  of  lace  it  may  either  be  tacked  on  double  or 
vrrapped  round  and  round  the  board,  only  be  sure  to  secure  the  edges 
in  form  by  sewing  them,  down  to  the  cotton  cloth.  Have  ready  a  lather 
of  curd  soap  and  luke  w^arm  water ;  lay  the  board  in  it  to  soak  all  night, 
taking  care  it  is  entirely  covered.  The  next  day  rub  it  gently  with  the 
hand  in  the  lather,  which  will  remove  all  soil  or  dirt.  When  it  is  quite 
clean  rinse  well  in  cold  water,  by  pouring  it  quickly  over  the  lace  seve- 
ral times ;  let  it  drain  a  little,  and  finally  pour  over  some  very  thin 
arrow-root  starch  (if  liked,  color  slightly  with  coffee) ;  then  dry  before  a 
clear  fire,  and  do  not  untack  the  lace  from  the  board  till  quite  crisp 
and  dry.     No  further  stretching  or  ironing  is  required. 

Lace  Curtains.  First  take  them  down  and  give  them  a  good  shak- 
ing, then  rub  them  through  two  waters,  or  pound  and  rub  them  ;  put  in 
a  pillow-case  to  boil,  which  prevents  their  being  torn ;  suds  and  rinse  in 
bluing  water  and  dry.  Choose  a  warm  sunshiny  day  to  starch  them. 
Take  quilting  frames  out  in  the  sun,  place  them  upon  four  chairs  (the 
same  as  for  a  quilt)  and  pin  a  sheet  on  them ;  use  silver  gloss  starch 
and  make  a  cooked  starch,  bluing  it  a  little ;  starch  two  pieces  knd  pin 
on  the  sheet  together,  stretching  them  lengthwise  as  far  as  possible ; 
then  pin  the  edges  as  near  as  two  inches  before  the  edges  are  quite  dry 
(the  middle  dries  first)  take  them  on  the  ironing  sheet  and  smooth  them 
nicely.  Or  pin  them  down  on  the  carpet,  at  sides  and  ends,  putting  the 
pins  close  together,  or  pinning  in  the  center  of  each  scallop  or  point. 
Leave  until  perfectly  dry  before  removing  from  the.  carpet.  If  the  car- 
pet is  clean,  and  free  from  dust,  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  put  clean 
sheets  down  before  pinning  the  curtains. 

SILK  AND  EMBROIDERED  HANDKERCHIEFS. 

White  or  cream  handkerchiefs  should  be  washed  in  cold  rain  water 
with  a  little  curd  soap ;  then  rinse  them  in  rain-water,  cold,  slightly 
colored  with  bluing ;  wring  well  and  stretch  them  out  on  a  mattress, 
tacking  them  down  tightly.  They  will  look  as  good  as  new  if  carefully 
washed. 

In  order  to  properly  wash  colored  silk  handkerchiefs,  make  a  good 
suds  in  lukewarm  water,  in  which  a  little  bit  of  carbonate  of  ammonia 
has  been  dissolved ;  rub  the  handkerchiefs  lightly  in  the  hands  till  all 
the  spots  have  disappeared.  Then  ri^se  them  in  lukewarm  water,  and 
squeeze  them  as  dry  as  possible.     Take  hold  of  the  two  corners  and 


238  THE  LA  UNDR  Y. 

shake  and  snap  each  one  for  a  few  minutes.  Roll  in  a  soft  towel, 
lightly,  laying  the  handkerchief  fiat  on  the  towel  at  first,  squeeze  tightly, 
and  iron  at  once. 

To  Wash  a  Fine  Cambric  Handkerchief,  embroidered  in  colored  silks, 
so  that  the  colors  do  not  run,  the  secret  is  to  wash  in  a  soap  lather  very 
quickly,  wring  thoroughly  and  then  iron,  so  that  it  dries  at  once.  There 
should  be  no  soaking,  and  the  embroidered  corner  should  be  kept  out 
of  the  water  as  much  as  possible.  A  little  alum  in  the  water  will  make 
the  process  more  sure. 

SILK  AND  COTTON  HOSE. 

For  Silk  Stockings.  Make  a  strong  lather  with  boiling  water  and 
curd  soap.  Leave  it  to  get  almost  cold,  then  divide  it  into  two  parts. 
Wash  the  stockings  well  in  one  of  the  lathers,  pressing  them  up  and 
down,  but  avoid  rubbing  as  much  as  possible.  Squeeze  out  the  wet, 
and  then  wash  them  in  the  second  lather,  in  which  a  few  drops  of  gin 
may  be  poured.  Do  not  rinse  in  fresh  water,  but  squeeze  out  the  wet 
very  carefully  without  wringing.  Lay  them  out  flat  on  a  piece  of  fine 
linen,  and  roll  them  up  tightly  until  almost  dry,  then  rub  with  a  roll  of 
flannel.  Black  stockings  wash  in  a  cool  lather  of  plain  white  soap  and 
rain  water,  with  a  little  ammonia  mixed  in  it.  Keep  from  the  air  while 
drying  by  rolling  in  a  cloth ;  do  not  wring,  but  press  the  moisture  well 
out.     Salt  and  water  form  a  good  rinse. 

Black  Silk  Stockings  are  apt  to  fade  unless  washed  with  care.  Take 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  soft  soap,  the  same  quantity  of  run  honey,  and 
a  large  wineglassful  of  gin  ;  mix  these  until  dissolved  in  a  quart  or  three 
pints  of  warm  salt  water.  Wash  the  stockings  well  in  this  and  rinse 
them  in  two  waters  (rain  water  is  best),  squeeze  them  in  a  towel,  smooth 
them  out  and  lay  them  on  a  sheet  to  dry  in  some  airy  place,  but  not  in 
the  sun.  Smooth  them  with  a  cool  iron  on  the  wrong  side.  If  carefully 
and  quickly  done  in  this  way,  black  silk  stockings  will  retain  their  color. 
Black  merino  stockings  should  be  washed  twice  in  a  lather  of  milk- 
warm  water,  and  no  soap  rubbed  on  them.  Rinse  in  cold  water  with  salt 
in  it ;  dry  them  quickly  in  the  open  air,  if  possible,  and  when  half  dry, 
mangle  them. 

Colored  Hose.  First,  they  should  never  be  soaped  or  soaked.  If  not 
too  soiled,  wash  in  almost  cold  water ;  make  a  lather  of  good  bar  soap 
— white  is  best — and  in  it  dissolve  a  small  piece  of  alum.  Use  this  dis- 
solved soap  in  the  water,  and  rub  the  goods  with  the  hands  as  far  as 
possible.  Put  through  two  waters,  and  rinse  in  two  more.  A  handful 
of  salt  or  a  spoonful  of  vinegar  in  the  rinsing  water  helps  to  brighten 
and  hold  the  colors.  Wash  only  one  article  at  a  time,  and  that  very 
quickly.  This  is  good  for  colored  muslins,  calicoes,  linens  and  silk 
handkerchiefs. 


MUSLINS,  CAMBRICS  AND  CALICOES.  239 

When  striped  stockings  are  washed  and  are  ready  to  hang  up  to  dry, 
turn  them  wrong  side  out ;  this  will  prevent  the  color  from  running  on 
the  right  side  and  spoiling  the  stockings. 

To  Set  the  Color.  When  v/ashed  for  the  first  time,  use  a  little  ox 
gall  (it  can  be  procured  at  the  druggist's) ;  use  it  in  ihe  first  water  only  ; 
also  have  one  teaspoonful  of  powdered  borax  to  every  pail  of  hot  water. 
Use  very  little  soap.  After  the  first  use  of  ox  gall,  borax  will  answer 
every  purpose.  Do  not  let  the  stockings  remain  long  in  any  water ; 
hang  in  the  shade  to  dry. 

MUSLINS,  CAMBRICS  AND  CALICOES. 

In  washing  muslin  dresses,  the  colors  may  be  prevented  from  running 
by  pursuing  the  following  course :  Take  out  all  the  gathers  at  the  top 
of  the  sleeves  and  the  waist,  wash  the  dress  quickly  in  not  too  warm 
water,  rinse  it  immediately,  roll  it  smoothly  in  a  dry  sheet,  and  let  it 
remain  until  just  damp  enough  to  iron.  Another  process  for  washing 
fine  muslin  of  delicate  colors  is  to  take  some  wheat  bran — about  two 
quarts  for  a  lady's  dress — and  boil  it  for  half  an  hour  in  some  soft  water, 
then  allow  it  to  cool,  strain  the  liquid,  and  use  it  as  a  substitute  for 
soapsuds.  It  removes  the  dirt  from  the  material  like  soap,  is  inert  in 
regard  to  the  colors,  requires  to  be  rinsed  out  in  only  one  clean 
water,  and  starching  is  unnecessary.  This  may  be  regarded  as  the  best 
method,  on  the  whole,  of  washing  fine  muslins,  lawns  and  calicoes.  A 
great  number  of  beautiful  dresses  are,  from  time  to  time,  spoiled  in 
washing  by  the  discharge  of  their  colors,  from  the  use  of  warm  suds. 
In  all  cases  the  suds  and  rinsing  water  for  colored  articles  of  dress 
should  be  used  as  cold  as  possible.  The  bran,  used  as  above,  should 
be  nice  and  clean,  and  a  bright,  fair  day  is  better  for  the  operation.  If 
bran  is  used,  no  soap  is  necessary,  the  water  should  be  only  milk  warm 
and  perfectly  clean.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  if  there  is  black  in  the 
dresses  or  any  color  that  may  run.  Rinse  thoroughly  in  only  one  water. 
No  starch  is  needed,  but  if  one  thinks  it  desirable  use  a  httle  white  glue 
water,  not  hot. 

Light  Colored  Prints  and  Cambrics  may  be  washed  in  this  way  :  Take 
a  tablespoonful  of  alum  and  dissolve  it  in  enough  lukewarm  water  to 
rinse  a  print  dress.  Dip  the  soiled  dress  into  it,  taking  care  to  wet 
thoroughly  every  part  of  it,  and  then  ring  it  out.  Have  warm— not  hot 
— suds  all  ready,  and  wash  out  the  dress  quickly ;  then  rinse  it  in  cold 
water.  (White  castile  soap  is  the  best  for  colored  cottons,  if  it  can  be 
commanded.)  Have  the  starch  ready — but  not  too  hot ;  rinse  the  dress 
in  it,  wring  it  out,  and  hang  it  wrong  side  out  to  dry,  but  not  in  the  sun. 
Place  it  where  the  wind  will  strike  it  rather  than  the  sun.  When  dry, 
iron  directly.  Prints  should  never  be  sprinkled;  but  if  allowed  to 
become  rough  dry,  they  should  be  ironed  under  a  damp  cloth.     It  is 


240  THE  LAUNDRY, 

better  to  wash  them  some  day  by  themselves,  when  washing  and  iron- 
ing can  be  done  at  once. 

Black  Calico — Boll  about  one  dozen  potatoes  in  one  gallon  of  water 
(do  not  pare  them),  wash  the  goods  in  this  water  without  soap;  then 
take  four  good  sized  potatoes,  pare  them  and  grate  into  a  deep  dish, 
sprinkle  about  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  over  this  and  pour  boiUng  water 
upon  it  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  thin  starch ;  strain,  and  rinse  the 
goods  in  this ;  hang  them  up  to  dry ;  iron  on  the  wrong  side. 

Or  this  :  Wash  it  in  clear  soapsuds — put  no  soap  on  the  garment — 
or  clear  water  with  half  an  ox-gall  dissolved  in  it,  wash  on  the  wrong 
side  and  starch  with  thin  starch  with  a  little  gum  arable  dissolved  in  it. 
Dry  quickly  and  iron  on  the  wrong  side. 

Chintz — Mike  a  lather  of  the  best  soft  soap,  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar  and  a  pinch  of  salt  to  every  quart — a  larger  proportion  to 
rinsing  water ;  rinse  quickly  and  the  colors  will  be  as  good  as  new. 

Striped  Table  Cloths — Soak  in  clear  water  for  half  an  hour ;  wring 
out  and  put  in  warm  clear  suds  ;  wash  quickly,  wring  as  dry  as  possible  ; 
put  in  clean  cold  water,  adding  a  handful  of  salt ;  let  them  soak  in  this 
for  fifteen  minutes ;  wring  and  starch  with  very  thin  starch  ;  hang  up  as 
soon  as  done  and  when  dry  roll  in  a  damp  cloth  and  iron.  Colored 
clothes  can  be  washed  in  this  way  for  years  and  look  as  well  as 
new. 

To  Set  the  Color — SaU,  or  vinegar  added  to  the  rinsing  water  will 
set  the  color  in  prints  or  cambrics.  Put  an  ounce  of  sugar  of  lead  into 
a  pail  of  water ;  soak  the  material  in  the  solution  for  two  hours  ;  let  dry 
before  being  washed  or  ironed.  Good  for  all  shades  of  blue.  Blue 
cambric  will  not  fade  if  dipped  into  a  solution  of  saltpeter,  using  two  or 
three  cents  worth  to  a  pail  of  water.  Salt  will  injure  blue  fabrics,  but 
is  good  for  all  others.  This  will  also  retain  the  color  of  a  lawn  or  calico 
dress :  One  tablespoonful  of  alum,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  dissolved 
in  one  gallon  of  soft  water  ;  soak  the  dress  ;  wash  as  usual,  and  rinse 
in  the  salt  and  alum. 

WHITE  AND  COLORED  FLANNELS. 

If  you  do  not  wish  to  have  them  shrink  when  washed,  make  a  good 
suds  of  hard  soap  and  wash  the  flannels  in  it,  without  rubbing  any 
soap  on  them ;  rub  out  in  another  suds,  then  wring  out  of  it, 
put  in  a  clean  tub,  turn  on  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cov^r,  and 
let  them  remain  till  the  water  is  cold.  They  should  never  be  put 
into  hot  water  first  and  then  into  hotter  or  cooler  water,  but  all  the 
water  should  be  alike,  about  medium.  Do  not  let  them  He  long  after 
being  wet.  When  they  are  wrung  out  the  last  time  shake  well,  turn 
around  and  shake  from  every  side  thoroughly.  A  Htt4e  indigo  in  the 
boiling  water  makes  the  flannels  look  nicer.     If  you  wish  to  have  your 


BLEACHING  WHITE  GOODS.  211 

white  flannels  shrink,  so  as  to  have  them  thick,  wash  them  in  soapsuds 
and  rinse  them  in  cold  water.  Colored  woolens  that  incline  to  fade 
should  be  washed  with  beef's  gall  and  warm  water  before  they  are  put 
in  the  soapsuds. 

To  Whiten  Old  Flannel— ^l^kt.  a  suds  of  hard  soap  and  soft  water ; 
dissolve  a  tablespoonful  of  borax  and  put  in  the  suds  ;  put  the  flannel 
in  the  suds  and  let  it  lie  a  few  minutes,  then  wash  and  rinse ;  have 
ready  some  cloths  dipped  in  melted  brimstone,  and  wound  on  sticks ; 
two  will  be  sufficient ;  put  them  in  a  candlestick,  or  anything  to  hold 
them  in  an  upright  position ;  hang  the  flannel  in  a  barrel,  so  that  the 
smoke  can  come  up  through  the  middle  and  around  it ;  light  the  brim- 
stone candles  and  set  them  in  the  bottom  of  the  barrel  and  cover  closely. 
If  carefully  done,  they  will  come  out  nearly  as  nice  as  new. 

WASHING  COMPOUNDS. 

Take  one  pound  of  Babbitt's  pure  concentrated  potash,  and  one  pound 
sal  soda;  put  these  in  three  gallons  of  soft  water;  boil  until  all  is  dis- 
solved ;  then  add  three  pounds  of  clean  grease ;  set  it  to  boiling ;  after 
boiling  from  one  to  six  hours,  and  it  becomes  soap  (keep  the  same 
quantity  of  water  in  the  kettle  as  at  first),  add  two  ounces  of  liquid 
ammonia,  half  a  pound  of  borax,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rosin,  six  gallons 
of  soft  water ;  stir  well  together,  then  your  soap  will  be  finished,  and 
use  this  for  boiling ;  after  rubbing  the  clothes  through  one  water,  they 
will  usually  come  out  white  and  clean.  This  is  nice  for  spreads  or  heavy 
goods. 

Or  this :  One  bar  of  Babbitt's  potash,  two  ounces  of  ammonia,  one 
ounce  of  salts  of  tartar ;  put  the  potash  into  four  quarts  of  rain  water 
(use  porcelain  kettles  if  possible)  and  soak  slowly,  not  boil ;  when  dis- 
solved remove  from  the  stove ;  when  cool  add  the  ammonia  and  salts 
and  put  up  in  jugs  or  bottles  corked  tightly.  Soak  the  fine  and  coarse 
articles  to  be  washed  separately  over  night.  The  follovking  morning, 
rinse  out  and  use  a  half  cake  of  soap,  cut  fine,  one  cup  of  fluid  and  two 
pails  of  soft  water ;  put  fine  pieces  into  this  cold  suds  and  boil  a  few 
moments  ;  take  out,  add  a  pail  of  cold  water  and  put  m  the  coarse 
clothes  to  boil ;  suds,  rinse,  blue  and  starch  as  usual,  and  your  clothes 
will  be  beautifully  clear  and  white  without  rubbing.  Wash  colored 
clothes  in  the  water  the  clothes  are  taken  into  from  the  boiler.  Clothes 
will  not  rot  if  washed  in  this  but  they  must  not  lay  in  the  compound 
but  be  washed  out  quickly. 

BLEACHING  WHITE  GOODS. 

Two  pounds  of  sal  soda  and  half  a  pound  of  chloride  of  lime.     Put 
half  a  gallon  of  water  to  the  lime  and  let  it  stand  all  night.     In  the 
morning  dissolve  the  soda  in  three  and  a  half  gallons  of  water ;  add  to 
16 


242  THE  LAUNDRY. 

the  lime-water  and  strain.  Immerse  the  cloth  in  boiling  suds ;  then 
take  out  and  put  directly  into  the  mixture ;  leave  it  in  for  half  an  hour, 
then  rinse  the  muslin  thoroughly  and  lay  upon  the  grass  or  snow,  or 
hang  upon  a  line  in  the  sun.  To  make  it  very  white,  dampen  occasion- 
ally and  leave  it  out  for  two  or  three  days. 

This  is  equally  good :  For  twenty  yards  of  muslin  take  one  pound  of 
chloride  of  lime  ;  soak  it  in  warm  water  over  night ;  then  strain  through 
a  coarse  cloth  into  a  tub  of  water  as  hot  as  you  can  bear  the  hands  in ; 
put  in  the  cloth  and  stir  it  constantly  thirty  minutes ;  then  wring  out 
and  rinse  as  long  as  your  strength  or  patience  lasts  and  your  cloth  will 
l)e  white  and  it  will  not  injure  it — if  it  is  thoroughly  rinsed. 

To  Cleanse  Cotton  Goods — Add  to  hot  rain  water  an  amount  of  wheat 
bran  equal  to  one-eighth  of  the  fabric  to  be  cleansed,  and  after  stirring 
well  for  five  minntes,  add  the  goods ;  stir  them  about  with  a  clean  stick 
and  bring  the  articles  to  a  boil.  Allow  the  mixture  to  cool  until  the 
goods  can  be  washed  out,  after  which  rinse  them  well. 

HARD  SOAP. 

Take  six  pounds  of  clean  grease,  six  pounds  of  sal  soda,  three  pounds 
of  stone  lime ;  slake  the  lime  and  put  it  into  four  gallons  of  soft  water ; 
add  the  sal  soda  and  when  dissolved  let  it  settle.  Pour  off  the  water 
into  an  iron  kettle  and  add  the  grease  melted,  and  boil.  If  the  soap 
does  not  come  after  boiling  a  few  minutes,  add  more  soft  water  till  it  is 
of  the  consistency  of  honey.  Wet  a  tub  and  pour  the  hot  soap  into  it. 
When  cold  cut  it  into  pieces  and  lay  it  away  to  dry.  Always  make  soap 
in  an  iron  kettle. 

Or :  Put  into  a  tub  without  paint,  three  pounds  of  unslacked  lime  and 
seven  pounds  of  washing  soda ;  pour  on  these  four  gallons  of  boiling 
rain  water;  stir  well  and  let  stand  over  night;  in  the  morning  dip  off 
the  water  as  closely  as  possible,  without  taking  up  the  sediment ;  put 
it  in  a  brass  kettle  and  add  seven  pounds  of  clean  rendered  grease ;  let 
this  boil  until  thick,  so  that  it  will  not  drop  from  a  stick,  but  string  ofiF 
in  fine  threads ;  now  add,  if  you  wish,  one  ounce  of  oil  of  cinnamon  or 
sassafras,  or  any  desirable  oil  for  perfume  ;  turn  it  out  into  deep  earthen 
dishes,  wet  with  cold  water  to  prevent  sticking ;  next  morning  turn  out 
of  dish  and  let  stand  four  weeks  to  dry  ;  lay  it  on  several  thicknesses 
of  newspapers  or  cloth  in  a  dry  place  and  turn  occasionally ;  then  cut  it 
into  desired  pieces.  Upon  the  remains  in  the  tub  pour  a  pailful  of 
water ;  stir  up  well  and  let  settle  again ;  when  clear,  dip  off  closely  as 
before  and  put  in  bottles  or  jugs  for  washing  fluid. 

SUN,  OR  COLD  SOAP. 

This  is  made  by  adding  one  pound  of  cleansed  grease  to  each  gal- 
lon of  lye — the  lye  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  t.g%.     Set  the  vessel  in 


RENOVATING  SOAP.  243 

the  sun  and  stir  thoroughly  each  day  until  it  is  good  soap.  This  gives 
it  a  golden  color  and  produces  an  excellent  soap  for  washing.  It  may 
be  used  in  washing  laces  and  fine  muslins  with  perfect  safety. 

To  Cleanse  Grease. — Place  all  grease  of  whatever  kind,  soup-bones, 
ham-rinds,  or  any  refuse  fat  in  a  kettle,  with  weak  lye  enough  to  boil  it 
until  all  the  particles  of  fat  are  extracted  ;  let  it  cool,  then  skim  off  the 
grease,  which  is  now  ready  to  make  the  sun  soap.  No  grease  should 
be  put  away  for  soap  until  tried  thoroughly. 

SOFT,  OR  BOILED  SOAP. 

Place  the  grease  in  a  kettle,  filling  it  only  half  full ;  if  there  is  too 
much  fat  it  can  be  skimmed  off  after  the  soap  is  cold  for  another  kettle 
of  soap.  This  is  the  only  test  when  enough  fat  is  used,  as  the  lye  will 
consume  all  that  is  needed  and  no  more.  The  kettle  should  be  out  of 
doors;  build  a  fire  under  one  side  of  it,  as  soap  should  boil  from  the 
side,  and  not  the  middle,  or  it  is  likely  to  boil  over.  Add  lye  until  the 
kettle  is  full  enough,  but  not  too  full  to  boil  well.  Let  it  heat  very  hot, 
so  as  to  fry,  and  stir  to  prevent  burning ;  do  this  before  the  lye  is  put 
in ;  then  put  in  a  gallon  at  a  time,  and  watch  closely,  or  it  will  boil 
over. 

To  test  the  soap :  To  one  spoonful  of  soap  add  one  of  rain  water ;  if 

it  stirs  up  very  thick  the  soap  is  good   and  will  keep  ;  if  it  becomes 

thinner  it  is  unfit  for  use.     If  too  weak,  continue  to  boil  for  a  few  hours, 

when  it  should  flow  from  the  stick  with  which  it  is  stirred  like  thick 

molasses ;  but  if  after  boiling  it  remains  thin,  let  it  stand  over  night,, 

removing  the  fire ;  then  drain  very  carefully  into  another  vessel,  being 

particular  to   prevent  any  sediment  from  passing.     Wash   the  kettle, 

return  the  soap  and  bring  to  a  boil,  and  if  the  cause  was  dirt,  it  will 

now  be  thick  and  good,  otherwise  it  is  too  strong  and  needs  rain-water 

added.     This  can  be  safely  done  by  pouring  in  a  small  quantity  at  a 

time,  until  it  becomes  thick.     A  few  beef  bones  left  in  the  barrel  will 

sink  to  the  bottom  and  improve  the  soap.     Soft  soap  should  be  kept  in 

a  dry  place  in  the  cellar ;  it  is  better  if  allowed  to  stand  three  months 

before  using. 

RENOVATING  SOAP. 

Four  ounces  of  cinnamon,  four  of  castile  soap,  twcf'of  alcohol,  two  of 
glycerine,  two  of  ether.  Cut  the  soap  fine  ;  dissolve  in  one  quart  of 
water  over  the  fire.  Then  add  four  quarts  of  water.  Cork  it  up  tight. 
This  is  good  for  renovating  rugs,  cleaning  alpaca  linings,  coat  collars, 
and  for  taking  out  paint  or  grease. 

To  make  a  wash  for  a  worsted  dress,  put  a  teacupf ul  to  a  pail  of 
warm  water ;  shake  and  squeeze  well  in  this,  then  rinse  in  plenty  of 
warm  water.     Iron  on  the  wrong  side. 

To  clean  coat  collars,  put  liquid  in  a  cup,  apply  with  a  rag  and  wash 
off  with  another  in  soft  tepid  water. 


244  THE  LA  UNDR  V. 


TIMELY  SUGGESTIONS. 

To  Re^nove  Iron  Mold  from  Linen,  wash  the  spots  in  a  strong 
solution  of  cream  of  tartar  and  water.  Repeat,  if  necessary,  and  dry- 
in  the  sun. 

Brush  Silk  with  a  piece  of  cotton  velvet  rolled  up  tight.  For  wash- 
ing, pour  a  pint  of  boiling  water  on  a  tablespoonful  of  alcohol.  Let  it 
stand  till  tepid,  and  sponge  the  goods  with  it. 

Silk  Pocket  Handkerchiefs  and  deep  blue  factory  cotton  will  not 
fade  if  dipped  in  salt  and  water  while  new. 

Wash-Leather  Gloves  should  be  washed  in.  clean  suds  scarcely  warm. 

Keep  an  old  blanket  and  sheet  on  purpose  for  ironing ;  have  plenty 
of  holders  always  made  that  your  towels  may  not  be  burned  out  in  such 
service. 

Soap  the  dirtiest  clothes  and  soak  them  in  warm  water  over  night. 
Use  hard  soap  to  wash  the  clothes  and  soft  to  wash  floors.  Soft  soap 
is  so  slippery  that  it  wastes  a  good  deal  in  washing  clothes. 

Silk  Neckties  can  be  washed  in  rain-water,  to  one  pint  of  which  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  white  honey  and  one  of  hartshorn.  Do  not  squeeze, 
but  let  them  drip,  and  when  nearly  dry  press  between  folds  of  cloth. 

To  Wash  Red  Table  Linen,  use  tepid  water,  with  a  little  powdered 
borax  (borax  sets  the  color) ;  wash  the  linen  separately  and  quickly, 
using  very  little  soap;  rinse  in  tepid  water  containing  a  liitle  boiled 
starch  ;  hang  to  dry  in  the  shade ;  iron  when  almost  dry. 

To  Take  Out  Fruit  Stains,  rub  the  part  on  each  side  with  yellow 
soap ;  then  tie  up  a  piece  of  pearlash  in  the  cloth  and  soak  well  in  hot 
water,  or  boil ;  afterwards  expose  the  stained  parts  to  the  sun  and  air 
until  removed. 

Remove  Mildew  from  linen  by  wetting  the  spot,  rubbing  on  chalk, 
and  exposing  it  to  the  air.  Diluted  hartshorn  will  take  out  mildew 
from  woolen  stuffs.  A  weak  solution  of  chloride  of  lime  can  be  applied 
to  almost  any  fabric,  but  must  be  used  with  care,  especially  on  some 
colors. 

To  Take  Out  Tea  Stains,  put  the  linen  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water;  rub 
the  stains  well  with  common  castile  soap ;  put  the  kettle  on  the  side  of 
the  stove,  to  let  the  water  get  gradually  warm  ;  wash  it  thoroughly  in 
warm  soap  suds ;  then  rub  the  stain  again  with  soap,  and  boil ;  then 
rinse. 

Clotlus  can  be  Bleached  by  putting  six  cents  worth  of  oxalic  acid  into 
a  gallon  of  boiling  water  and  pouring  over  them.  Stir  them  up  and  let 
them  remain  in  it  till  the  water  is  cold,  and  then  lay  them  out  on  the 
grass  to  bleach.     They  will  soon  be  white  as  snow. 

Bran  or  oat;neal  will  soften  hard  water.  The  bran  should  be  sewn  in 
a  muslin  bag  and  kept  in  the  water  all  night.     Tne  oatmeal  should  be 


TIM  EL  Y  S  UGGES  TIONS.  245 

treated  as  follows :  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  in  a  saucepan,  pour  a 
quantity  of  hot  water  upon  it  and  boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  strain  and 
mix  with  the  water  as  needed. 

'Jo  Remove  Fruit  Stains  from  a  cambric  handkerchief  or  other  white 
goods,  dip  the  stain  in  boiling  milk.  If  this  is  not  effectual,  apply  a 
very  weak  solution  of  chloride  of  lime,  being  careful  to  boil  the  hand- 
kerchief afterwards. 

Jf  Tablecloths,  Napkins  and  Handkerchiefs  are  folded  an  inch  or 
two  beyond  the  middle  they  will  last  much  longer;  it  is  on  the  edges  of 
folds  where  they  first  wear,  and  folding  them  not  on  a  middle  line,  each 
ironing,  they  get  a  new  crease. 

To  Make  a  Clothes  Line  Pliable,  boil  it  an  hour  or  two  before  using 
it.  Let  it  dry  in  a  warm  room  and  do  not  allow  it  to  "  kink."  They 
should  be  well  wiped  and  taken  down  after  each  wash.  Gutta  percha 
lines  are  the  best.  Never  leave  out  the  clothes  line  over  night,  and  see 
that  clothes-pins  are  all  gathered  into  a  basket. 

Silk,  or  anything  that  has  silk  in  it,  should  be  washed  in  water  almost 
cold.  Hot  water  turns  silk  yellow.  It  may  be  washed  in  suds  made  of 
nice  white  soap,  but  no  soap  should  be  put  upon  it.  Avoid  the  use  of 
hot  irons  in  smoothing  silk.  Either  rub  the  article  dry  with  a  soft  cloth, 
or  put  them  between  towels  and  press  them  with  weights. 

To  Remove  Coffee  Stains  from  table  linen,  pour  boiling  water  through 
the  Stain  before  washing-  The  water  must  boil.  If  not  quite  boiling, 
it  sets  the  stain. 

If  you  are  troubled  to  get  soft  water  for  washing,  fill  a  tub  or  barrel 
half  full  of  ashes  and  fill  it  up  with  water,  so  that  you  may  have  lye 
whenever  you  need  it.  A  gallon  of  strong  lye  put  into  a  large  kettle 
of  hard  water,  will  make  it  as  soft  as  rain  water  For  toilet  purposes  a 
teaspoonful  of  borax  to  a  pitcher  of  water  will  make  the  water  soft,  and 
is  good  for  the  complexion  and  teeth. 

How  to  Wash  Matting — Put  a  mixture  of  salt  and  lemon  juice  on 
the  stains  leave  this  for  some  hours  without  washing  off ;  then  wash 
the  whole  matting  with  salt  and  water. 

Zephyr  Shawls  and  Hoods  may  be  cleaned  by  putting  them  into  a 
pan  with  some  flour ;  rub  the  articles  as  you  would  wash  anything 
shake  well  and  hang  on  the  line,  and  they  will  look  as  fresh  as  new. 

To  Wash  Black  Lace — Carefully  sponge  the  lace  with  gin  or  green 
tea ;  wind  around  a  bottle  to  dry,  By  filling  the  bottle  with  warm 
water  it  will  dry  more  quickly.  Don't  put  near  the  fire,  or  it  will  have 
a  rusty  appearance. 

To  Wash  Fascinators — Make  strong  ammonia  water;  take  the 
article,  dip  it  up  and  down  a  few  times  and  it  will  be  clean,  besides  the 
colors  will  be  freshened.  Ammonia  renews  ribbons  too.  By  putting  a 
few  teaspoonfuls  of  ammonia  in  the  washtub  with  the  first  water,  the 
clothes  will  require  less  rubbing. 


246  THE  LAUNDRY, 

To  Renovate  Black  Grettadine,  take  strong,  cold  coffee,  and  strain 
it,  wring  the  grenadine  out  of  it,  quite  tightly,  after  which  shake  out 
and  fold  up.  Iron  with  a  moderately  hot  iron,  over  a  piece  of  old  black 
material. 

To  Take  Out  Grease  Spots  from  Cloth,  make  a  weak  dilution  of 
ammonia  and  rub  gently  on  the  spot ;  then  lay  a  blotting  paper  over  the 
place ;  press  a  warm  flat-iron  on  it,  and  it  will  disappear. 

Common  Starch,  prepared  as  for  regular  washing,  makes  an  excellent 
paste  for  scrap-books.  That  which  is  left  over  from  the  washing  is 
just  as  good  as  if  freshly  prepared. 

When  color  on  a  fabric  has  been  destroyed,  sponge  it  with  acid 
ammonia,  after  which  an  application  of  chloroform  will  restore  the 
original  color. 

Ink,  if  washed  out  or  taken  from  the  carpet  with  milk  immediately 
it  is  spilled,  can  be  almost  entirely  removed.  Ink  spots  on  floors  can 
be  extracted  by  scouring  with  sand  wetted  in  oil  of  vitriol  and  water. 
When  the  ink  is  removed  rinse  with  strong  potash  water. 

A  few  drops  of  ammonia  on  a  wet  towel  gently  pressed  on  the  edge 
of  a  soiled  collar  will  whiten  it.  This  is  well  to  remember  when  travel- 
ing, where  one  cannot  get  a  change  of  linen. 

Cold  Starch  is  much  improved  if  made  with  soap-suds  of  white  toi- 
let soap.  Ripe  tomatoes  will  remove  stains  from  white  cloth,  also  from 
hands.  A  teaspoonful  of  turpentine  boiled  with  white  clothes  will  aid 
materially  in  the  bleaching  process. 

An  Ox's  Gall  will  set  any  color — silk,  cotton  or  woolen.  One  spoon- 
ful of  gall  put  into  a  gallon  of  warm  water  is  sufficient  for  the  above 
purpose.  This  is  also  excellent  for  taking  out  spots  from  bombazines, 
and  after  being  washed  in  it  they  look  about  as  good  as  new.  It  must 
be  thoroughly  stirred  into  water,  and  not  put  upon  the  cloth.  It  is  used 
without  soap.  After  being  washed  in  it,  cloth  which  you  want  to  clean, 
should  be  washed  in  warm  suds,  without  using  soap. 

Housekeepers  who  are  limited  in  their  supply  of  good  washing  water,, 
can  make  it  do  double  duty  by  dissolving  alum  in  hot  water,  and  throw 
it  into  the  tub  of  soap-suds  In  a  moment  the  soap  will  curdle,  and. 
accompanied  by  muddy  particles,  will  sink  to  the  bottom,  leaving  the 
water  perfectly  clear  and  devoid  of  the  smell  of  soap.  This  water  can 
be  used  for  washing  a  second  time  if  poured  off  the  sediment.  Where 
water  is  scarce,  this  fact  is  invaluable. 

Windsor  Toilet  Soap — Cut  some  nice  white  bar  soap  into  thin  slices, 
melt  it  over  a  slow  fire,  scent  it  with  oil  of  lavender ;  when  all  dissolved 
pour  it  into  a  mold  and  let  it  remain  a  week,  then  cut  it  into  the 
required  size 

Shaving  Soap — A  very  fine  shaving  soap  solution  may  be  made  by 
taking  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  castile   soap  in  shaving,  one  pint 


MEDICAL.  247 

of  rectified  spirit,  one  gill  of  water ;  perfume  to  taste ;  put  in  a  bottle, 
cork  tightly,  set  in  warm  water  for  a  short  time,  and  agitate  occasion- 
ally till  the  solution  is  complete.  Let  stand,  pour  the  liquid  off  the 
dregs,  and  bottle  for  use. 


MEDICAL. 


HOW  TO   KEEP  WELL. 


Keep  the  body  clean,  and  the  air  pure. 

Do  not  eat  too  much,  or  late  at  night,  and  always  rest  before  and  after 
a  hearty  meal. 

Iced  drinks,  or  very  hot  drinks  will  produce  dyspepsia,  and  ruin  the 
teeth. 

Dress  yourself  and  the  children  in  loose  clothes,  and  wear  all  skirts 
suspended  from  the  shoulders. 

Build  fires  early  in  the  fall,  and  keep  them  up  late  in  the  spring,  thus 
securing  yourself  from  malarial  fever  and  pulmonary  disease. 

When  really  sick,  send  for  a  good  physician,  and  do  not  allow  your- 
self to  depend  upon  patent  medicines  or  quack  doctors. 

Never  enter  a  sick  room  with  an  empty  stomach,  nor  exercise  violently 
just  after  eating. 

Never  sleep  in  clothing  worn  during  the  day,  summer  or  winter,  and 
let  that  worn  at  night  be  exposed  by  day,  and  vice  versa. 

Thousands  of  persons  starve  themselves  into  thinness,  paleness  and 
nervousness,  by  living  on  white  bread  and  sweet  thmgs,  and  sleeping 
too  little.  Oatmeal,  cracked  wheat,  Graham  bread  and  beef,  with  plenty 
of  sleep,  would  make  them  plump  and  ruddy. 

Catarrh,  bronchitis  and  consumption  often  originate  in  damp  feet. 
Mud,  water  and  snow  will  soon  make  the  feet  damp,  if  you  wear  only 
leather  boots.  The  arctic  overshoe  is  a  perfect  prevention.  If  the 
]eather  boot  be  light,  and  the  arctic  be  worn  only  when  walking  in  mud 
or  snow,  it  is  a  perfect  foot-rig. 

Avoid  colds  and  break  up  as  soon  as  possible  when  taken.  Keep 
warm  within  doors;  drink  warm  teas;  relax  the  bowels,  and  take  a 
vapor  bath,  or  if  a  cold  in  the  head,  take  a  vinegar  bath  by  wrapping 
the  head  up  in  flannels  wet  in  hot  vinegar.  While  taking  the  baths  you 
must  be  careful  and  not  take  cold,  or  they  will  be  worse  off  than  before 
taking  these  remedies.  Breaking  a  cold  up  early  often  leaves  a  severe 
attack  of  congestion,  pneumonia,  or  fever. 

Keep  the  person  scrupulously  clean,  change  the  clothing  worn  next 


248  MEDICAL, 

the  skin  often,  especially  the  stockings;  wash  the  feet  daily.  Good 
health  is  never  attainable  if  the  feet  are  habitually  cold,  since  this 
implies  an  impaired  circulation  of  the  blood,  that  it  does  not  reach 
the  extremities.  Instead  of  toasting  them  in  the  oven,  soak  them  in 
warm  water  till  thoroughly  warm,  rubbing  them  thoroughly  with  a  crash 
towel  till  a  reaction  occurs ;  use  a  flesh-brush  freely  upon  the  whole 
body,  It  is  more  safe  than  a  cold  bath  and  will  aid  in  equalizing  the  cir- 
culation. This  will  do  much  to  improve  cold  and  sweaty  feet.  This 
followed  for  a  few  nights  will  generally  warm  the  feet  and  give  a  good 
circulation  to  the  whole  body. 

A  prolific  source  in  disease  is  defective  drainage  and  sewerage.  This 
is  one  of  the  most  important  things  to  attend  to  around  the  house. 
Chloride  of  lime  and  carbolic  acid,  and  other  disinfectants  do  not 
destroy  filthiness,  but  only  help  to  disguise  it.  Cleanliness,  pure  air 
and,  above  all.  plenty  of  sunlight,  are  the  best  fumigators,  and  should 
always  be  kept  in  active  use. 

To  secure  a  good  ventilation  in  living  and  sleeping  rooms,  open  the 
window  top  and  bottom,  and  leave  it  that  way  until  the  air  is  pure  and 
sweet.  With  good  fires  the  windows  can  always  be  kept  open  an  inch 
or  two.  This  is  especially  needful  in  the  sleeping  room,  biit  the  bed 
must  be  removed  out  of  the  draft. 

LIVING  UP  STAIRS. 

A  very  noted  health  physician  says  if  you  want  to  be  healthy  and  live 
to  a  good  old  age,  you  must  climb  up  stairs  and  live  at  the  top.  The 
stairs  consist  of  but  seven  steps,  and  you  must  make  a  pause  on  each 
step  and  follow  his  directions : 

First  Step— Eat  wheat,  oats,  com,  fruits,  beef  and  mutton,  plainly 
cooked,  in  moderate  quantity,  and  but  two  meals  a  day. 

Second  Step— Breathe  good  air  day  and  night. 

.Third  Step — Exercise  freely  in  the  open  air. 

Fourth  Step — Retire  early  and  rise  early. 

Fifth  Step — Wear  flannel  next  your  skin  every  day  in  the  year,  and 
so  dispose  your  dress  that  your  limbs  shall  be  kept  warm.  Bathe  fre- 
quently. 

Sixth  Step— Live  in  the  sunshine.  Let  your  bed-room  be  one  which 
receives  a  flood  of  light,  and  spend  your  days  either  out  in  the  sunlight 
or  in  a  room  which  is  well  lighted. 

Seventh  Step — Cultivate  a  cheerful  temper.  Seek  the  society  of  jolly 
folks.     Dont  be  afraid  to  laugh. 

Go  up  this  flight  of  stairs.  Live  above.  Catarrh  cannot  crawl  up 
there.  Catarrh  and  other  maladies  are  prowling  about  in  the  basement 
and  cannot  reach  the  floor  above. 


PREVENTIVE  AGAINST  SEA-SICKNESS.         240 


PURIFYING  THE  YARDS 

Wherever  about  your  yards  there  is  anything  needinjj  a  disinfectant 
see  to  it  before  you  and  yours  have  its  infections  breathed  into  your  sys- 
tems. To  do  this  dissolve  common  copperas  at  the  proportion  of  a 
tablespoonful  to  a  pint  of  water  and  sprinkle  plentifully  upon  the  earth 
where  needed.  Burn  up  all  that  will  burn,  bury  or  remove  what  will 
ciiot,  if  they  have  any  disease-breeding  qualities.  Plant  rapid  growing 
climbers  or  tall  plants  l.ke  sunflower  or  hemp  in  your  back  yards  to 
purify  the  air  the  season  through.  Sprinkle  ashes  over  the  ground 
where  manure  heaps  have  been  removed,  and  better  still,  have  the  earth 
plowed  and  turned  over,  ashes  and  all.  What  you  can  not  do  yourself, 
attend  to  having  done,  and  watch  that  health  measures  are  continually 
enforced. 

FATNESS  AND  LEANNESS. 

Com  meal  is  fattening,  also  hominy,  rye  and  unbolted  wheat  flour. 
Oat  meal  contains  much  more  flesh-forming  material  than  fine  flour, 
cFhis  well  boiled,  without  much  stirring,  and  eaten  with  cream  and  baked 
sweet  apples  and  brown  bread,  makes  a  good  breakfast.  Sweet  apples, 
boiled  whole,  unpared,  adding  Fugar,  are  nice.  Nuts  are  rich  in  vege- 
table oil,  and  eaten  as  a  dessert  for  dinner,  instead  of  pastry,  are  whole- 
some, but  should  not  be  eaten  between  meals.  Eggs  are  rich  in  fat. 
but  boiled  hard  or  fried  in  grease  are  worse  than  nothing. 

Some  people  are  constitutionally  predisposed  to  spareness  and 
nothing  can  make  them  fat.  But,  in  addition  to  the  right  kind  of  food 
and  a  happy,  cheerful  state  of  mind,  the  surest  way  to  increase  in  flesh 
is  to  exercise  but  moderately.  Lie  down  a  great  deal.  No  posture  is 
so  favorable  to  the  gaining  of  flesh  as  the  recumbent.  Sleep  as  much 
as  you  can ;  one  gains  flesh  when  he  sleeps.  Lying  on  a  stretcher  or  in 
a  hammock  out  of  doors  in  the  shade  (the  world  forgetting),  is  better 
than  activity.     Keep  the  air  of  your  room  pure  at  night. 

PREVENTIVE  AGAINST  SEA-SICKNESS. 

Let  your  last  day  on  shore  be  a  day  of  perfect  rest ;  no  shopping  or 
farewell  calls ;  let  your  body,  which  is  likely  to  be  pretty  well  tired  by 
previous  fatigue,  get  thoroughly  rested.  At  least  twenty-four  hours 
before  you  sail,  take  as  strong  a  dose,  or  doses  if  necessary,  of  cathartic 
medicine  as  you  can  bear.  Eat  lighter  meals  than  usual  for  two  or 
three  days  belore  sailing.  Then,  if  the  malady  assails  you  on  your  first 
day  out,  take  twenty  or  thirty  grains  of  bromide  of  sodium  and  repeat 
Jf  necessary. 


250  MEDICAL. 


THE  MEDICINE  CHEST. 


First  on  the  list  is  a  good  bottle  of  camphor  (the  guni  cut  with  alco- 
hol) for  use  in  case  of  headache,  faintness,  or  if  one  is  hurt  or  stung  by 
bees ;  taken  in  small  quantities  for  pain  in  the  stomach,  it  gives  great 
rehef,  but  one  must  be  very  careful  how  they  use  it.  If  taken  in  too 
large  quantities,  camphor,  or  the  gum  either,  is  very  dangerous.  Never 
wet  the  hair  with  it  for  headache,  or  the  result  will  be  that  the  hair  will 
fall  out,  which  would  be  very  unpleasant,  to  say  the  least ;  but  bathe  the 
temples,  forehead,  and  back  of  the  neck  with  it  (camphor),  then  wet  a 
cloth  in  hot  water  and  lay  over  the  forehead  and  eyes,  also  soak  the  feet 
in  hot  water.  Then  keep  the  patient  quiet.  If  your  headache  is  not 
very  obstinate  it  will  be  persuaded  to  desist.  This  treatment  will 
greatly  relieve  sick  headache,  and  sometimes  cure,  as  the  soaking  of  the 
feet  reUeves  nausea  of  the  stomach. 

If  you  have  a  sore  throat,  slight  or  serious,  a  piece  of  camphor  gum 
as  large  as  a  pea,  kept  in  the  mouth  until  dissolved,  will  give  relief  and 
ofttimes  cure.  It  is  said  by  good  authority,  if  the  gum  is  used  in  season 
you  will  never  have  diphtheria — it  is  a  good  preventive.  The  second 
best  remedy  is  magnetic  ointment  for  outward  application;  for  sore 
throat,  sick  headache,  earache,  burns,  scalds,  cuts,  wounds  and  inflam- 
mation, etc.,  and  it  cannot  be  equaled. 

Then  there  is  the  indispensable  bottle  of  pain  killer.  There  are  sev- 
eral kinds  which  are  good.  It  is  used  for  all  kinds  of  aches  and  pains. 
A  teaspoonful  taken  two  or  three  times  a  day  in  case  of  dysentery  is 
very  beneficial.  Also  keep  laudanum,  quinine,  and  some  mild  cathartic 
around.  With  the  above  one  can  feel  quite  safe,  even  in  cases  of 
emergency.  A  small  piece  of  cotton  saturated  with  laudanum  and 
placed  in  an  aching  ear,  or  the  cavity  of  an  aching  tooth,  with  a  hot 
flatmel  cloth  placed  to  the  face,  often  gives  a  good  night's  rest,  which, 
if  omitted,  would  cause  great  suffering  and  loss  of  sleep. 

One  or  two  grains  of  quinine,  taken  just  before  each  meal,  will  ^\t 
an  appetite  and  often  throw  off  fever,  if  taken  in  time  (an  ounce  of  pre- 
ventive is  worth  a  pound  of  cure  any  time)  and  when  a  person  has  a  bad 
taste  in  the  mouth,  feels  a  loss  of  ambition,  chills  creeping  over  them, 
and  a  desire  to  yawn  often,  there  is  nothing  better  than  quinine  taken 
as  directed  above.  Always  take  a  mild  cathartic  at  the  time  ;  this  will 
cleanse  the  system  ofttimes,  without  the  aid  of  other  medicines. 

There  is  nothing  better  for  a  cut  than  powdered  rosin.  Get  a  few 
cents  worth  of  rosin,  pound  it  until  it  is  fine,  and  put  it  in  an  empty, 
clean  pepper  or  spice  box  with  perforated  top  ;  then  you  can  easily  sift 
it  out  on  the  cut,  put  a  soft  cloth  around  the  injured  member  and  wet 
it  with  cold  water  once  in  a  while.  It  will  prevent  inflammation  and 
soreness. 


SIMPLE  REMEDIES  IN  SICKNESS.  251 

In  doing  up  a  burn  the  main  point  is  to  keep  the  air  from  it.  If  sweet 
oil  and  cotton  are  not  at  hand,  take  a  cloth  and  spread  dry  flour  over 
it.  and  wrap  the  burned  part  in  it.  It  is  always  well  to  have  some 
simple  remedies  in  the  house  where  you  can  get  them  without  a  moment's 
loss  of  time ;  a  little  bottle  of  peppermint,  in  case  of  colic,  chlorate  of 
potash  for  sore  throat,  pepsin  for  indigestion,  and  a  bottle  of  brandy. 

Very  few  persons  are  aware  what  a  valuable  auxiliary  turpentine  is  in 
many  diseases.  It  is  a  sovereign  remedy  for  croup.  Saturate  a  piece 
of  flannel  in  it,  and  place  the  flannel  on  the  throat  and  chest  and  occa- 
sionally two  or  three  drops  on  a  lump  of  sugar  may  be  taken  inwardly. 

Nothing  better  than  turpentine  can  be  applied  to  a  severe  cut  or 
bruise,  and  it  will  give  certain  relief  almost  instantly.  Let  any  one  who 
has  an  attack  of  lockjaw  take  a  small  quantity  of  turpentine,  warm  it 
and  pour  on  the  wound,  no  matter  where  it  is,  and  relief  will  follow  in 
less  than  a  minute.  Flannel  cloth  wrung  out  of  turpentine  into  hot 
water,  as  hot  as  the  patient  can  bear,  is.  one  of  the  best  of  remedies  for 
inflammation. 

Hops,  also,  have  many  uses.  A  handful  of  them  steeped  in  a  quart 
bowl  (always  steep  in  earthen)  of  water  until  the  strength  is  extracted, 
strained  and  sweetened  with  loaf  sugar,  and  bottled  for  use,  is  as  good 
or  better  than  any  hop  bitters  ever  purchased.  Dose,  one  wineglassful 
taken  three  times  a  day  is  a  good  anti-bilious  alterative  and  tonic  for 
ordinary  family  purposes. 

For  outward  application,  make  some  small  bags  of  cotton  six  inches 
square  and  fill  with  hops.  When  the  face  aches,  or  the  head  is  in  pain, 
or  the  throat  and  chest  are  sore,  heat  one  or  more  of  these  bags  very 
hot,  up  to  scorching  the  cloth  even,  and  apply  to  the  suffering  part.  It 
is  a  great  improvement  on  wet  cloths,  or  wet  applications  of  any  kind. 

Keep  rolls  of  old  pieces  of  cotton,  woolen  and  linen  for  use  in  the 
sickroom.  In  times  of  health  always  be  prepared  and  preparing  for 
sickness  and  accident  with  all  things  needful. 

SIMPLE  REMEDIES  IN  SICKNESS. 

One  of  the  most  common  applications  is  that  of  a  poultice.  Most 
people  think  that  they  know  how  to  make  and  apply  them,  but  there 
are  very  few  who  are  adepts  at  it.  They  are  used'  to  arrest  inflamma- 
tions and  allay  the  attendant  pain,  also,  in  cases  of  wounds,  abscesses, 
boils,  etc.,  to  facilitate  the  passage  of  matter  to  the  surface  and  its 
expulsion.  The  object  of  a  poultice  is  to  supply  heat  and  moisture, 
therefore,  they  should  be  applied  as  hot  as  can  be  borne,  and  should  be 
frequently  changed ;  the  old  poultice  not  being  removed  until  the  new 
one  is  ready  to  replace  it.  When  the  application  is  to  be  made  to  a 
boil,  it  is  better  to  cover  the  boil  with  a  piece  of  opium  plaster  with  a 
circular  hole  cut  in  it,  and  apply  the  poultice  over  the  plaster,  or  smear 


252  MEDICAL, 

the  edge  of  the  inflamed  part  with  a  little  zinc  ointment.  The  object 
being  to  protect  the  adjacent  tissues  from  the  action  of  the  poultice, 
which  has  a  tendency  to  develop  fresh  boils.  They  should  be  spread 
upon  a  warm  cloth,  and  the  part  coming  next  to  the  skin  should  be 
covered  with  very  thin  gauze  or  muslin,  so  that  it  will  not  stick  to  the 
surface  and  can  be  removed  all  at  once.  When  a  poultice  is  applied, 
cover  it  with  oil  silk,  rubber  cloth  or  flannel.  Keep  it  firmly  fastened 
to  the  place  it  is  intended  to  cover,  and  replace  it  with  a  fresh  one 
before  it  gets  cold. 

Poultices  are  made  of  various  substances ;  the  most  common  are  ln>- 
seed  meal,  elm  bark,  bread,  etc.  To  make  a  linseed  meal  poultice,  rinse 
a  bowl  or  basin  with  boiling  water  to  heat  it ;  then  pour  in  sufficient 
boiling  water ;  with  one  hand  sprinkle  the  meal  into  the  bowl  and  with 
the  other  stir  the  mixture  constantly  with  a  spoon  until  sufficient  meal 
has  been  added  to  make  a  thin  and  smooth  dough.  This  should  be 
done  rapidly,  otherwise  the  poultice  will  cool  in  making.  The  meal 
should  always  be  added  to  the  water  with  constant  stirring,  for  if  the 
water  be  added  to  the  meal  the  two  ingredients  will  not  be  well  blended 
and  a  lumpy  mass  will  result.  To  make  a  bread  poultice,  cut  stale 
bread  into  thick  slices,  and  pour  enough  boiling  water  over  it  to  cover ; 
place  by  the  fire  and  allow  it  to  simmer  for  a  short  time ;  then  strain  off 
the  excess  of  water  and  spread  on  a  hot  cloth. 

When  it  is  desired  to  produce  a  strong  counter-irritation,  a  poultice 
of  mustard  mixed  with  equal  parts  of  meal  is  a  good  application.  By 
mixing  the  mustard  with  the  white  of  an  ^g%,  the  result  may  be  obtained 
quicker,  and  the  application  will  not  produce  a  blister,  as  mustard  may 
do  if  otherwise  mixed.  Fomentations  are  used  in  cases  where  poultices 
are  not  available  or  are  not  easily  applied.  An  ordinary  fomentation  is 
a  thick  piece  of  flannel  immersed  in  boiling  water,  removed  and  wrung 
dry  as  possible,  applied  to  the  skin  and  covered  with  oil  silk  or  rubber 
cloth.  There  is  an  article  made  for  this  purpose,  called  spongio-pialine, 
consisting  of  fine  sponge  and  wool  matted  together  and  covered  with  a 
rubber  coating.  This  is  available  at  all  times  and  can  be  used  repeat- 
edly without  destroying  the  texture. 

A  turpentine  fomentation  is  made  by  steeping  a  piece  of  linen  or  lint 
in  oil  of  turpentine.  When  applied  to  the  skin,  cover  with  a  flannel 
heated  as  hot  as  can  be  borne,  or  wring  a  flannel  out  of  hot  water  and 
sprinkle  the  turpentine  upon  it  and  apply.  This  is  frequently  more 
effectual  than  a  mustard  plaster. 

When  it  is  desired  to  apply  dry  heat,  a  thin  piece  of  flat  tile  may  be 
heated  and  used.  If  that  is  not  at  hand,  a  common  earthenware  plate, 
heated  in  the  oven  and  enveloped  in  flannel,  will  retain  its  heat  for  some 
time.  A  heated  brick  will  sometimes  answer  the  purpose  ;  so  also  will 
stone  bottles  filled  with  hot  water ;  or  hot  salt  in  a  bag  is  applied  to  the 


HOP  AND  HEMLOCK  FILLO IVS.  ii53 

neck  in  cong-estive  headaches.  Instead  of  hot  applications,  it  is  some- 
times necessary  to  pursue  the  opposite  course  and  apply  cold  ones.  This 
may  be  done  in  various  ways,  by  cold,  moist  sponges  or  cloths,  bladders 
filled  with  ice,  or  by  means  of  ice  bags.  Where  an  intense  cold  is 
desired  the  following  is  a  good  formula :  Take  of  nitre  half  an  ounce, 
sal  ammoniac  two  drachms,  vinegar  three  tablespoonfuls,  water  one 
pint  To  be  applied  by  means  of  sponges  or  cloths.  Where  it  is 
necessary  to  apply  a  continuous  cold,  the  use  of  a  water  bag  is  advis- 
able. It  consists  of  a  rubber  bag  with  a  flexible  tube  at  each  end.  The 
end  of  one  tube  is  to  be  attached  to  the  faucet  of  a  water  cooler  and 
the  other  may  hang  over  a  pail.  A  constant  stream  of  ice  water  passes 
through  the  bag  which  may  be  applied  where  desired. 

Patients  should  be  bathed  often,  and  the  bath  given  by  nieans  of  a 
sponge  is  the  one  which  will  be  most  often  used.  When  the  bath  is 
given  in  bed  it  can  be  done  without  disturbing  the  patient  by  having 
everything  at  hand  and  working  quickly  (not  hurriedly).  See  that  the 
bedding  is  protected  by  a  rubber  sheet  or  folded  blanket  over  which  is 
placed  a  sheet  folded  double.  Slip  the  arms  out  of  the  nighi  dress 
and  have  another  warming  before  the  fire  ready  to  put  on  when  the 
bath  is  finished.  Take  up  but  little  water  in  the  sponge,  but  return  it 
to  the  basin  frequently  and  change  the  water  in  the  basin  several  limes 
during  the  bath,  having  everything  at  hand  for  the  purpose.  Wash  and 
dry  only  a  part  of  the  body  at  a  time.  It  is  well  to  use  a  teaspoonful 
of  ammonii  to  each  basinful  of  water.  In  some  diseases  of  children 
it  is  necessary  to  give  hot  or  cold  baths.  By  stretching  a  blanket  over 
the  tub,  placing  the  child  on  it,  and  gradually  lowering  it  into  the 
water,  you  will  prevent  them  from  being  frightened  at  the  sight  of  the 
water,  and  thus  do  away  with  the  weakness  that  always  follows  fright 
in  children. 

HOP  AND  HEMLOCK  PILLOWS. 

These  are  recommended  for  sleeplessness : 

To  Make  a  Hop  Pillow — Take  two  pieces  of  plain  nankeen  eighteen 
inches  square,  on  one  side  braid  some  simple  pattern  with  white  braid ; 
sew  together  and  stuff  full  with  nice  fresh  hops ;  finish  with  white 
fringe  an  inch  and  a-half  wide.  Make  a  tidy  for  it  of  plain  soft  linen  ; 
ravel  the  edges  out  one  inch  and  overcast  with  blue  split  zephyr,  and 
the  pillow  is  complete. 

A  Hemlock  Pillow  can  be  made  by  gathering  the  young  fresh 
branches  and  strip,  them.  Make  a  case  of  unbleached  cotton,  about 
20  inches  square,  and  fill  W'th  the  hemlock  needles.  Then  make  an 
outer  covering  of  Java  canvas,  and  work  some  pretty  pattern,  sugges- 
tive of  the  woods,  if  possible.  Those  who  camp  out  in  summer  and 
sleep  on  hemlock  boughs  can  dream  of  the  woods  while  sleeping  on 
their  pillows. 


254  MEDICAL. 


HOW  TO  CARE   FOR  THE  SICK. 


In  all  cases  of  sickness  it  is  better  that  the  care  of  the  invalid  be 
entrusted  to  some  one  person  who  shall  act  as  nurse,  to  whom  direc- 
tions shall  be  given  by  the  attending  physician,  and  who  shall  be  respon- 
sible to  him  regarding  the  carrying  out  of  his  orders.  As  sickness  will 
come  sooner  or  later  into  e'/ery  household,  we  should  be  prepared  to 
meet  and  combat  it.  The  sick  room  should  be  the  most  cheerful  room 
in  the  house,  if  possible,  with  a  southern  exposure,  in  order  to  have  the 
benefit  of  the  sunlight.  It  should  be  removed  from 'the  noise  of  the 
street  and  the  odors  of  the  kitchen.  It  is  a  mistake  to  keep  patients  in 
a  small,  ofttimes  illy-ventilated  chamber,  as  is  too  frequently  done. 
Better  use  the  parlor,  if  no  other  room  answers  the  requirements. 

Remove  all  superfluous  furniture  and  ornaments,  and  if  the  patient 
is  sick  with  a  contagious  disease,  like  scarlet  fever  or  diphtheria,  take 
up  the  carpet  and  use  rugs  or  small  pieces  of  carpet  where  necessary. 
The  reason  of  this  is  that  in  contagious  diseases  the  propagating  poison 
of  the  disease  attaches  itself  to,  and  becomes  absorbed  by  woolen 
material  more  readily  than  others,  and  the  liability  to  contract  the  dis- 
ease by  a  visitor  entering  the  room  would  remain  a  long  time  after  the 
patient  has  recovered. 

We  will  suppose  some  member  of  our  family  is  sick  and  confined  to 
the  bed.  Now,  wife,  mother  or  sister  must  be  relieved  as  far  as  is  pos- 
sible, of  all  other  duties.  In  many  cases  this  will  be  impossible,  but 
whatever  the  household  duties,  do  not  neglect  the  patient,  and  do 
not,  above  all,  show  any  disposition  to  worry  and  fret  over  the  additional 
duties  imposed.  Let  your  presence  in  the  sick  room  be  a  grateful  one, 
in  regard  to  the  appearance  you  present  to  the  patient.  Let  your  dress 
be  scrupulously  clean  ;  always  have  a  neat  personal  appearance,  clean 
collar,  handkerchief  and  a  spotress  apron.  Keep  the  hands  soft  by  the 
use  of  glycerine,  or  what  is  better,  where  it  can  be  obtained,  the  appli- 
cation of  cosmoline  well  rubbed  in  several  times  a  day.  A  delicate 
touch  should  be  cultivated,  for  a  patient  dislikes  the  feeling  of  a  clumsy 
hand  or  a  rough  one.  Wear  the  hair  brushed  back  smoothly  ;  let  your 
dress  be  a  close  fitting  one,  and  if  obliged  to  sit  up  at  night  and  the 
necessity  for  extra  clothing  is  felt,  don't  wear  a  shawl  or  a  sack  with 
loose  ends.  It  may  become  entangled  in  some  of  the  surroundings, 
and  perhaps,  just  as  your  patient  is  going  off  into  a  doze  you  may  upset 
a  chair  or  a  stand  by  catching  in  some  part  of  it,  and  the  noise  may 
prevent  any  further  sleep  that  night. 

You  are  in  sole  charge  of  the  sick  room,  and  you  must  enforce  cer- 
tain rules  upon  those  who  enter,  being  careful  to  observe  them  yourself. 
The  first  rule  which  is  imperative  is  never  to  whisper.  If  you  have 
anything  to  say  speak  out  in  a  moderate  low  tone,  but  never  whisper 


HO  W  TO  CARE  FOR  THE  SICK.  255 

or  allow  it  to  be  done  in  the  hearing  of  a  patient,  either  in  the  sick 
room  or  an  adjoining  one.  Nothing  disturbs  a  patient  more ;  the  tired 
nerves  are  strained  to  catch  the  import  of  whispered  conversation,  and 
imagination  runs  rife  in  the  patient's  brain. 

In  moving  about  the  room  walk  with  a  light  firm  step,  not  on  tiptoe. 
Avoid  creaking  boots.  It  is  better  to  wear  slippers.  Don't  sit  on  the 
bed  or  in  a  rocking  chair.  The  first  is  likely  to  disarrange  the  clothes 
and  disturb  the  patient.  The  latter  is  annoying  to  him  to  follow  the 
motions  of  the  chair.  Whatever  is  to  be  done  in  the  way  of  tidying  up 
the  room  do  quietly  and  promptly,  but  don't  hurry. 

Seek  to  anticipate  the  wants  of  your  patient  without  his  being  obliged 
to  express  them.  Never  contradict  a  patient ;  if  inclined  to  be  delirious, 
or  if  the  mind  is  filled  with  morbid  fancies  and  delusions,  contradiction 
only  excites  ;  rather  seem  to  fall  in  with  the  imaginations  of  the  patient 
and  seek  to  turn  the  mind  in  a  different  direction.  Oil  the  hinges  of 
the  doors  and  don't  allow  them  to  shut  with  a  slam.  Do  not  speak  to 
others  in  the  patient's  presence  of  his  disease,  or  talk  to  him  when  alone 
of  the  sickness  of  others.  Better  talk  too  httle  on  any  subject  than  too 
much.  What  conversation  you  have  let  it  be  of  a  cheerful  nature,  and 
no  matter  how  serious  the  case  may  be,  don't  let  alarm  manifest  itself 
in  your  countenance. 

There  are  certain  times  in  the  twenty-four  hours  when  patients  are 
apt  to  be  worse.  About  5  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  there  generally  is 
an  increase  of  fever ;  at  about  4  o'clock  in  the  morning  is  the  time 
when  the  powers  of  life  are  at  their  lowest  ebb.  The  temperature  of 
the  body  will  be  higher  at  5  p.  m.  than  it  is  at  4  a.  m.  In  severe  cases 
of  illness  the  morning  hour  (4  a.  m.),  is  the  most  critical  of  the  twenty- 
four.  More  deaths  occur  at  that  time  than  at  any  other.  It  is,  there- 
fore, necessary  at  that  time  to  see  that  your  patient  is  warm  enough,  or 
is  not  faint ;  give  a  little  nourishment  or  stimulus,  beef  tea  or  milk 
punch,  and  replenish  the  fire  or  put  on  more  bed-clothing,  if  needed. 
In  regard  to  replenishing  the  fire,  have  at  all  times  ready  paper  bags 
filled  with  coal,  which  can  be  put  on  the  fire  one  at  a  time  without 
using  a  coal-hod  and  shovel,  thus  avoiding  a  noise. 

When  your  patient  wakes  in  the  morning  sponge  the  face  and  hands, 
or  wipe  them  with  a  soft  cloth  wet  with  tepid  water,  in  which  may  be 
put  a  teaspoonful  of  ammonia  water.  This  is  always  refreshing,  and  it 
may  be  repeated  several  times  during  the  day.  Let  him  rinse  out  the 
mouth  with  water,  and  have  ready  some  broth,  gruel,  or  other  nutri- 
ment for  him  to  take.  You  can  do  all  this  by  having  your  an-ange- 
ments  made  the  night  before,  without  disturbing  the  rest  of  the  family. 
Do  not  cook  or  warm  any  food  in  the  patient's  room.  Food  and  water 
intended  for  the  patient's  use  must  not  be  kept  in  the  room,  only  while 
giving  it.  Frequently  the  patient  will  be  thirsty  in  the  night.  For  this 
purj>ose  ice  may  be  used,  given  in  small  pieces. 


256  MEDICAL, 

In  order  to  keep  ice  from  melting,  cut  a  piece  of  flannel,  about  nine 
inches  square,  and  secure  it  by  an  elastic  band,  or  by  tying  it  round  the 
mouih  of  an  ordinary  tumbler,  so  as  to  leave  a  cup-shaped  depression 
of  flannel  within  the  tumbler  to  about  half  its  depth.  In  the  flannel 
cup  so  constructed  pieces  of  ice  may  be  preser\'ed  many  hours ;  all  the 
longer  if  a  piece  of  flannel  from  four  to  six  inches  square  be  used  as  a 
loose  cover  to  the  ice  cup.  Cheap  flannel,  with  comparatively  open 
meshes,  is  preferable,  as  the  water  easily  drains  through  it,  and  the  ice 
is  thus  kept  quite  dry.  When  good  flannel,  with  close  texture,  is  used, 
a  small  hole  must  be  made  in  the  bottom  of  the  flannel  cup,  otherwise 
it  will  hold  water,  which  facilitates  the  melting  of  the  ice.  Ice  may  be 
given  freely  in  most  cases  and  will  allay  the  thirst  better  than  water. 

The  body  linen  of  a  patient  should  be  changed  often  and  the  bed 
linen  daily.  Where  it  is  possible,  use  for  bed  coverings  only  sheets  and 
blankets.  Don't  use  the  same  upper  sheet  during  the  day  that  has  been 
used  at  night,  but  have  two  sets,  and  while  one  is  in  use  let  the  other 
be  airing.  It  were  better  if  all  the  bedding  could  be  served  the  same 
way.  When  fresh  sheets  or  clothing  are  to  be  put  on,  they  should  be 
thoroughly  aired  and  warmed.  One  side  of  the  bed  should  be  made  up 
at  a  time,  and  the  patient  gently  moved  from  one  side  to  the  other.  If 
at  any  time  the  patient  feels  cold  or  has  a  chill,  take  jugs  or  beer 
bottles  with  hot  water,  and  apply  them  to  the  feet  and  legs,  being  sure 
to  wrap  them  well  with  a  number  of  thicknesses  of  flannel,  lest  they 
produce  blistering.  There  will  be  times  when  the  patient  will  want  to 
be  shielded  from  view,  or  when  tidying  up  the  room.  To  avoid  dis- 
turbing the  patient,  it  is  best  to  put  a  screen  about  the  bed.  A  screen 
maybe  CKtemporized  by  throwing  a  sheet  over  a  clothes-horse.  A  bed 
rest  may  be  extemporized  by  taking  a  straight-backed  chair  and  turning 
it  so  that  it  will  rest  on  the  front  of  the  seat  and  the  top  of  the  back, 
with  the  feet  in  the  air.  The  back  is  to  be  covered  with  pillows 
arranged  so  a">  to  support  the  head  and  shoulders  and  small  of  the 
back.  It  will  allow  the  use  of  a  position  which  is  often  a  great  relief  to 
patients  who  have  been  long  confined  to  bed.  In  some  diseases,  where 
the  weight  of  the  bed  clothing  is  unbearable,  a  cradle  may  be  extem- 
porized by  sawing  a  barrel  hoop  into  two  half-circles  and  tying  the 
pieces  firmly  together  at  right  angles.  This,  placed  over  the  patient's 
body,  will  relieve  it  from  the  weight  of  the  bed  clothing. 

Knowing  how  necessary  it  is  that  patients  should  receive  a  proper 
amount  of  nourishment,  and  how  often  the  sight  or  mention  of  food 
causes  the  stomach  to  revolt,  it  is  of  the  greatest  importance  that  the 
food  designed  to  be  given  be  presented  to  the  patient  in  the  most  agree- 
able and  tempting  manner.  Let  the  meals  (whatever  they  m^y  consist 
of),  be  served  upon  a  tray  covered  with  a  clean  napkin  and  in  your 
daintiest  ware.     Don't  let  anything  slop  over,  or  bring  too  much  of  any- 


HOW  TO  CARE  FOR  THE  SICK.  257 

thing.  Never  taste  the  food  in  the  patient's  presence.  Arrange  what 
you  design  for  food  without  consulting  your  patient.  Nine  times  out 
of  ten  if  you  ask,  "  What  do  you  want  to  eat  ?"  the  reply  will  be, 
"Nothing,"  or,  "  I  don't  care."  Prop  him  up  in  bed  by  means  of  pil- 
lows ;  put  a  shawl  about  his  shoulders  and  a  napkin  under  his  chin. 
When  the  patient  is  helpless  give  small  mouthfuls  and  don't  hurry  him. 
Vary  the  diet  as  much  as  is  allowable.  There  are  many  cases  where 
the  system  is  actually  starving,  which  could  be  reached  by  a  little  inge- 
nuity displayed  in  giving  the  kind  of  food  required  in  just  the  right 
way. 

Notice  particularly  the  amount  of  food  taken  so  that  you  may  report 
to  the  attending  physician.  To  the  attending  physician  you  should  at 
each  visit  give  a  detailed  history  of  the  case  since  his  last  visit.  (Details 
to  be  noted  on  paper  during  each  day.)  Mention  all  striking  occur- 
rences— if  for  any  reason  the  medicines  have  not  been  given  exactly  as 
ordered ;  or,  if  taken,  if  rejected  from  the  stomach  ;  note  the  color, 
-quantity,  and  consistence  of  all  the  bodily  discharges.  Note  whether 
the  patient  sleeps  much  or  little;  if  the  sleep  is  quiet  or  restless;  if 
there  is  any  delirium  or  moaning,  etc. 

It  is  better  to  present  the  history  of  the  case  to  the  physician  at  each 
visit  in  the  form  of  a  diary,  in  which  your  entries  are  made  from  time 
to  time  during  the  day. 

It  is  imperative  that  the  sick  room  should  be  well  ventilated.  Great 
care  should  be  taken  to  keep  everything  in  neatness  and  order;  by 
omitting  to  do  so  the  patient  is  worried,  becomes  fretful,  and  great 
harm  is  done. 

Always  keep  the  feet  warm  and  the  head  cool  as  possible.  Never 
allow  a  sick  person  to  ask  the  second  time  for  anything  ;  attend  to 
their  wants  immediately ;  if  you  do  think  they  are  whimsical,  it  is  a 
privilege  they  have,  and,  in  fact,  about  the  only  one  they  do  enjoy. 

It  is  very  hurtful  to  let  a  sick  person  drink  much  cold  water  at  one 
time,  even  if  they  are  not  very  sick  ;  some  warm  drink  or  cold  corn,  or 
crust  coffee  (toasting  the  corn  and  crusts),  can  be  drunk  with  good 
results.  If  they  must  have  cold  water,  take  them  just  what  you  are  will- 
ing they  should  drink,  be  it  ever  so  little,  and  no  more,  and  say  to  them 
to  drink  hearty,  and  smile  (if  the  quantity  is  very  small),  and,  if  they  are 
able,  it  will  provoke  a  smile  in  return. 

If  the  patient  has  a  burning  fever,  take  an  earthen  wash-bowl,  fill 
two-thirds  full  of  tepid  water,  in  which  put  one  tablespoonful  of  com- 
mon baking  soda ;  then  bathe  the  face,  body  and  limbs  freely  with  it 
and  wipe  dry.  This  treatment  for  fever  is  followed  by  our  best  physi- 
cians. 

Never  venture  into  the  sick  room  if  you  are  in  a  violent  perspiration 
(if  circumstances  require  your  continuance  there  for  any  time),  for  the 
17 


258  MEDICAL. 

moment  your  body  becomes  cold  it  is  in  a  state  likely  to  absorb  the 
infection  and  give  you  the  disease  ;  nor  visit  a  sick  person,  especially  if 
the  complaint  be  of  a  contagious  nature,  with  an  empty  stomach,  as 
this  disposes  the  system  more  readily  to  receive  the  contagion.  In 
attending  a  sick  person  place  yourself  v^here  the  air  passes  from  the 
door  or  window  to  the  bed  of  the  diseased,  not  between  the  sick  person 
and  any  fire  that  is  in  the  room,  as  the  heat  of  the  fire  will  draw  the 
infectious  vapor  in  that  direction,  and  you  run  the  risk  of  danger  from 
breathing  it  in.  All  clothing  and  clothes  used  should  be  thoroughly 
aired.  A  pretty  bouquet  or  a  nice  plant  in  the  sick  room  will  often 
give  great  pleasure. 

It  is  also  essential  to  know  how  to  hold  a  sick  person  with  ease. 
Never  grasp  him  or  support  any  part  of  the  body  with  the  tips  of  your 
fingers,  but  with  the  whole  breadth  of  your  hand  laid  smoothly  on  the 
skin.  If  you  use  the  finger  ends  for  holding  any  weight,  they  will  press 
and  dig  into  the  patient's  flesh,  causing  him  great  discomfort,  particu- 
larly if  the  part  be  at  all  inflamed;  but  if  your  whole  hand,  with  fingers 
a  little  spread  out,  divide  the  weight  over  its  surface,  no  discomfort  or 
as  little  as  possible  is  produced. 

Obey  implicitly  the  directions  of  the  attending  physician  ;  when  med- 
icines are  ordered  to  be  given,  mark  on  a  sheet  of  paper  the  hours  at 
which  each  dose  is  to  be  given  and  check  each  dose  taken.  Never  guess 
at  the  dose  ordered.  See  that  all  medicines  are  labeled  and  look  at  the 
label  each  time  if  more  than  one  kind  is  to  be  given.  Ask  your  physi- 
cian how  much  nourishment  he  wishes  the  patient  to  have  and  g^ve  it 
at  stated  times,  with  as  much  regularity  as  the  medicine. 

The  medicine  to  be  given  and  the  cups,  spoons  and  glasses,  for  the 
use  of  the  patient  should  be  kept  out  of  his  sight,  either  in  a  closet  or 
on  a  table  in  an  adjoining  room.  Spoons  that  have  been  used  should 
be  placed  in  water  each  time  after  using.  A  small  dish  of  water  on  the 
stand  will  serve  for  this  purpose. 

There  is  one  thing  which  will  often  require  considerable  tact  to 
accomplish — the  defense  of  your  patient  against  the  well-meaning  but 
oftentimes  injudicious  interference  of  friends.  If  a  caller  commences  a 
conversation  which  will  tend  to  disturb  or  fatigue  your  patient,  speak 
kindly  but  firmly  to  stop  it.  Remember  your  first  duty  is  to  your 
patient.  You  can  explain  your  reasons  to  the  friend  afterwards.  Don't 
let  a  caller  kiss  your  patient.  It  is  a  bad  habit  in  sickness  and  one 
fraught  with  danger  at  times,  and  is  almost  always  annoying  to  the 
patient. 

STATE  OF  THE  PULSE  AND  LUNGS. 

Every  intelligent  person  should  know  how  to  ascertain  the  state  of 
the  pulse  in  health ;  then,  by  comparing  it  with  what  it  is  when  he  is 
ailing,  he  may  have  some  idea  of  the  urgency  of  his  case.     Parents 


VAL  UABLE  AD  VICE  TO  MO  THERS.  259 

should  know  the  health  pulse  of  each  child — as  now  and  then  a  person 
is  bom  with  a  peculiarly  slow  or  fast  pulse — and  the  very  case  in  hand 
may  be  of  that  peculiarity.  An  infant's  pulse  is  one  hundred  and  forty  ; 
a  child  of  seven  about  eighty,  and  from  twenty  to  sixty  years  it,  is  sev- 
enty beats  a  minute,  declining  to  sixty  at  eighty.  A  healthful  grown 
person's  pulse  beats  seventy  times  a  minute ;  there  may  be  good  health 
down  to  sixty,  but  if  the  pulse  always  exceeds  seventy  there  is  disease; 
the  machine  is  working  itself  out;  there  is  fever  or  inflammation  some- 
where and  the  body  is  feeding  on  itself;  as  in  consumption,  when  the 
pulse  is  quick,  that  is  over  seventy,  gradually  increasing,  with  decreased 
chances  of  cure,  until  it  reaches  one  hundred  and  ten  or  one  hundred 
and  twelve,  when  death  comes  before  many  days.  When  the  pulse  is 
over  seventy  for  months,  and  there  is  a  slight  cough,  the  lungs  are 
affected. 

Persons  desirous  of  ascertaining  the  true  state  of  their  lungs  are 
directed  to  draw  in  as  much  breath  as  they  conveniently  can ;  they  are 
then  to  count  as  far  as  they  are  able  in  a  slow  and  audible  voice  with- 
out drawmg  in  more  breath.  The  number  of  seconds  they  can  con- 
tinue rnust  be  carefully  observed.  In  consumption  the  time  does  not 
exceed  ten  and  and  is  frequently  less  than  six  seconds.  In  pleurisy  and 
pneumonia  it  ranges  from  nine  to  four  seconds.  When  the  lungs  are 
in  sound  condition  the  time  will  range  as  high  as  from  twenty  to  thirty- 
five  seconds. 

VALUABLE  ADVICE  TO  MOTHERS. 

Emetics  are  useful  under  various  circumstances.  In  cases  of  croup, 
;md  some  other  diseases,  and  also  to  relieve  the  stomach  of  any  irri- 
tating substance  which  has  been  swallowed,  such  as  indigestible  food 
or  poison.  There  are  several  articles  used  for  this  purpose  that  can  be 
obtained  readily  anywhere.  Ground  mustard,  common  salt  and  warm 
water.  If  a  child  or  any  member  of  the  household  has  accidentally 
swallowed  any  poison  there  are  two  things  to  be  done,  dilute  the  poison 
and  get  it  out  of  the  stomach  as  quickly  as  possible.  A  few  minutes' 
delay  may  settle  the  question  of  life  or  death.  There  are  various  anti- 
dotes to  particular  poisons,  but  in  many  cases  the  nature  of  the  poison 
is  not  known,  and  we  must  act  upon  what  is  called  general  principles. 
There  are  two  kinds  of  poison  which  are  distinguished  by  their  action, 
viz.,  corrosive  and  insensible.  Corrosive  poisons  destroy  the  coating  of 
the  tongue,  throat  and  stomach,  and  occasion  great  pain,  with  great 
prostration.  Hartshorn  or  ammonia  is  an  example  of  this  class. 
Insensible  poisons  produce  msensibility  and  are  not  generally  attended 
with  any  pain.  Laudanum  and  the  various  preparations  of  opium  are 
examples  of  this  class.  In  the  first  class  of  cases  give  a  teacupful  of 
warm  (not  hot)  milk  ;  in  two  or  three  minutes  another  ;  continue  until 
the  stomach  is  full  and  then  insert  a  feather  or  a  finger  into  the  throat 


260  MEDICAL. 

and  vomiting-  will  ensue.  If  milk  is  not  at  hand  don't  wait,  but  use  cold 
water.  After  vomiting  has  taken  place  give  the  whites  of  half  a  dozen 
eggs  or  a  tumbler  of  sweet  oil,  which  will  tend  to  neutralize  any  poison 
remaining  in  the  stomach. 

In  the  second  class  of  cases,  mustard,  salt  and  warm  water  are  the 
best  emetics.  Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  mustard  with  a  tumbler  of  water 
and  give  half  of  it ;  follow  it  immediately  with  a  cup  of  warm  water. 
Repeat  every  two  minutes  until  vomiting  occurs.  If  mustard  is  not  at 
hand  use  common  salt,  as  much  as  will  dissolve  in  a  cup  of  water.  To 
be  given  in  the  same  way.  After  vomiting  has  occurred,  instead  of 
white  of  eggs,  give  strong  coffee.  If  there  is  a  tendency  to  sleep  pour  a 
stream  of  cold  water  on  the  head  and  shoulders  from  a  height  of  five  or 
six  feet.  In  all  cases  send  for  your  physician  the  first  thing,  but  con- 
tinue active  treatment  until  he  arrives.  Persons  are  somtimes  poisoned 
from  inhaling  noxious  gases,  which  escape  from  stoves  into  sleeping 
rooms.  When  such  an  accident  occurs,  open  all  the  windows,  pour  cold 
water  on  the  head  from  a  height  and  apply  hartshorn  to  the  nose.  If 
able  to  swallow  give  a  stimulant — a  few  spoonfuls  of  whisky  or  brandy 
and  water.  The  sting  of  a  wasp  or  a  bee  is  an  irritant  poison  applied 
to  the  skin,  and  serious  results  may  come  from  it.  A  prompt  applica- 
tion of  a  little  hartshorn  to  the  wound  and  three  drops  diluted  with  half 
a  tumbler  of  water  and  swallowed  will  afford  speedy  relief.  If  that  is 
not  at  hand,  a  little  wood  ashes  stirred  in  a  cup  of  water  will  make  a 
good  substitute  for  the  hartshorn. 

A  disease  in  which  emetics  are  often  used  is  croup.  This  disease  is 
alarming  in  its  symptoms,  and  is  dreaded  more  perhaps  than  any  other. 
It  is  the  result  of  cold,  especially  if  connected  with  damp  clothing  and 
wet  stockings.  A  child  becomes  overheated  and  stands  in  a  draft  or 
sits  on  a  cold  stone,  the  perspiration  becomes  suddenly  checked  and 
croup  is  apt  to  follow.  It  generally  comes  on  at  night  after  going  to 
bed.  The  child  will  seem  restless  and  feverish  with  a  quickened  respi- 
ration, and  then  suddenly  comes  the  cough  that  is  the  direful  forerunner 
of  croup.  Pat  the  child's  feet  into  a  bath  of  hot  water  with  red  pepper 
in  it,  grease  it  on  the  abdomen,  chest  and  throat  and  wrap  up  carefully 
in  blankets.  In  severe  cases  goose  grease  and  molasses  a  little  warmed 
is  given,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  but  not  oftener  than  once  an  hour 

BURNS,  BRUISES  AND  SPRAINS. 
Among  the  more  common  accidents  which  are  liable  to  occur  in  the 
household,  and  which  often  prove  serious,  are  burns  and  scalds.  Their 
severity  and  danger  depend  upon  the  extent  of  surface  and  depth  of  tis- 
sues involved.  An  unfailing  remedy  is,  in  most  households,  always  on 
hand — common  baking  soda  or  bi-carbonate  of  soda.  Make  a  thick 
paste  with  soda  and  a  little  water  and  apply  to  the  injured  spot ;  then 


BURNS,  BRUJSES  AND  SPRAINS.  261 

dust  the  whole  with  the  dry  soda  and  cover  with  a  light  bandage.  It 
will  act  like  magic,  relieving  the  pain  at  once.  Allow  it  to  remain  until 
it  is  ready  to  drop  off — a  few  hours  or  days,  as  the  case  may  be.  When 
it  is  removed,  dress  the  wound  with  cosmoline.  Never  put  on  to  a  burn 
or  scald  any  molasses,  starch,  soap,  flour,  charcoal  or  glue.  They  have 
the  inconvenience  of  being  uncleanly,  and  some  of  them  form  crusts 
which  it  is  difficult  to  remove. 

Beech  leaves  are  a  sovereign  remedy  for  the  most  severe  burns. 
Take  the  leaves  of  the  beech  tree,  either  green  or  dried,  and  boil  them 
in  water,  hard  or  soft,  thus  making  a  tea  as  strong  as  it  can  be  made. 
Boil  for  an  hour.  Take  the  tea  lukewarm  and  wash  the  burn  thor- 
oughly, then  cover  the  raw  place  with  the  leaves  two  or  three  thick,  with 
smooth  side  down.  Wrap  well  with  soft  cloths,  and  keep  damp  with 
the  tea  ;  dress  twice  a  day,  and  the  worst  burn  will  soon  show  improve- 
ment and  heal  much  more  rapidly  than  with  any  other  treatment.  One 
good  feature  of  the  wash  is  it  causes  no  smarting  or  pain  whatever, 
even  as  strong  as  the  tea  can  be  made.  It  may  be  applied  to  any 
perfectly  raw  surface,  and  will  soon  allay  any  smarting  or  burning. 

Bruises  and  sprains,  which  are  liable  to  occur  at  any  time,  are  much 
more  quickly  cured  if  treated  immediately  on  their  occurrence.  The 
effect  of  a  bruise  is  to  rupture  some  of  the  smaller  blood  vessels,  near 
the  surface,  and  the  blood  being  poured  out  under  the  skin,  forms  the 
black  and  blue  spots,  so-called.  When  such  an  accident  occurs,  a 
stream  of  cold  water  directed  on  to  the  part,  and  continued  as  long  as 
it  can  be  borne,  and  then  renewed  after  a  time,  will  often  prevent  swell- 
ing, and  will  contract  the  mouths  of  the  ruptured  blood  vessels.  Such 
a  method  may  be  applied  by  pouring  water  on  to  the  part  from  a 
height,  from  a  pitcher  or  coffee-pot.  A  rubber  tube  may  be  attached  to 
a  faucet,  and  the  water  thus  conducted.  The  parts  should  be  tightly 
bandaged  afterward,  and  the  bandages  soaked  with  tincture  of  arnica, 
or  tincture  of  marigold  (Calendula). 

A  sprain  is  always  more  serious  than  a  bruise,  the  joints  being  the 
parts  implicated.  One  may  recover  from  a  fractured  limb  sooner  than 
from  some  forms  of  sprain.  When  such  an  accident  occurs,  place  the 
limb  in  a  basin  or  pail  of  water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  Keep  the  tem- 
perature up  by  the  addition  of  more  hot  water  from  time  to  time.  Allow 
it  to  remain  immersed  in  the  bath  from  ten  minutes  to  half  an  hour, 
according  to  circumstances.  After  removing,  bandage  evenly  and 
tightly  the  whole  extent  of  the  limb,  both  below  and  above  the  joint 
implicated,  commencing  the  bandaging  at  the  extremity  of  the  limb, 
below  the  injury,  and  making  it  tightest  at  that  point,  thus  forcing  the 
blood  from  the  superficial  veins  towards  the  trunk.  The  limb  should  be 
kept  in  an  elevated  position  for  some  hours  afterwards.  If  the  injury  is 
to  the  lower  extremity,  the  foot  may  be  placed  in  a  chair,  and  supported 


262  MEDICAL. 

by  a  pillow.  If  the  upper  extremities  are  involved,  a  sling,  made  of  a 
wide  silk  handkerchief,  and  tied  around  the  neck,  will  give  the  neces- 
sary elevation  and  support. 

EARACHE  AND  NOSE  BLEED. 

There  is  scarcely  an  ache  to  which  children  are  subject  that  is  so  dif- 
ficult to  bear  as  the  earache.  The  cases,  if  treated  as  follows,  will 
often  be  relieved  immediately .  Take  a  bit  of  cotton  and  soak  it  in 
glycerine  and  sprinkle  on  it  a  little  black  pepper ;  insert  this  into  the  ear 
and  put  a  dry  piece  of  cotton  outside,  to  be  kept  in  place,  if  necessary, 
by  a  light  bandage  tied  over  the  head. 

Sometimes  insects  will  find  lodgment  in  the  ear,  causing  great  pain. 
Should  this  occur,  turn  the  head  on  one  side,  and  pour  the  ear  full  of 
sweet  oil.  Insects  breathe  through  pores  in  their  skin ;  the  oil  obstructs 
these  openings,  causing  their  aeath.  Children,  and  often  those  of  larger 
growth,  acquire  the  habit  of  picking  their  ears  with  a  pin,  hairpin,  etc. 
It  is  a  pernicious  practice  and  should  not  be  allowed.  The  drum  of 
the  ear  is  a  very  delicate  membrane  and  is  easily  injured ;  inflammation 
and  deafness  may  be  induced  thereby.  Sometimes  foreign  bodies  from 
the  throat,  such  as  a  piece  of  meat  or  a  large  bone,  can  be  removed  by 
blowing  forcibly  into  the  ear.  It  causes  a  powerful  reflex  action,  dur- 
ing which  the  foreign  substance  may  be  expelled  from  the  windpipe. 

Many  persons  are  subject  to  nose  bleed.  In  robust,  plethoric  habits 
this  is  rather  beneficial  than  otherwise,  but  in  many  cases  it  occasions 
inconvenience  and  perhaps  alarm.  It  generally  yields  readily  to  treat- 
ment. .  Take  a  pledget  of  lint,  moisten,  dip  in  equal  parts  of  powdered 
alum  and  gum  arabic  and  insert  in  the  nose.  Batl^e  the  forehead  and 
nape  of  the  neck  in  cold  water.  If  alum  and  gum  arabic  are  not  at 
hand,  use  the  tea  dust  found  in  the  bottom  of  the  tea  caddy. 

BOW-LEGS  AND  KNOCK-KNEES. 

There  is  no  necessity  for  children  to  ever  be  deformed  in  this  way, 
for  few,  if  any,  are  bom  in  this  way,  but  the  child  is  thus  distorted  by 
carelessness  or  inattention  of  the  mother.  A  learned  English  physician 
who  has  made  a  study  of  the  care  of  infants  attributes  the  distortion 
known  as  bow-legs,  to  a  habit  some  youngsters  delight  in  of  rubbing  the 
sole  of  one  foot  against  that  of  the  other.  Some,  as  is  well  known,  will 
go  to  sleep  with  the  soles  pressed  together ;.  they  appear  to  enjoy  the 
contact  only  when  the  feet  are  naked,  not  attempting  to  make  it  when 
thep  are  socked  and  slippered.  The  remedy,  therefore,  is  simply  to 
keep  the  child's  soles  covered.  Knock-knees  the  doctor  ascribes  to  a 
(Vifferent  childish  habit,  namely,  that  of  sleeping  on  the  side,  with  one 


NER  VO  US  DISEASES.  263 

knee  tucked  into  the  hollow  behind  the  other — a  custom  familiar  to  the 
observation  of  most  parents,  or  standing  the  child's  weight  upon  the 
legs  before  they  are  strong  enough  to  bear  it.  Here  the  preventive  pre- 
scribed is  to  pad  the  inside  of  the  knees  so  as  to  keep  them  apart,  and 
let  the  limbs  grow  freely  their  own  way. 

NERVOUS   DISEASES. 

Until  within  a  comparatively  few  years  nervousness  was  considered 
merely  an  irritability  of  temper,  a  mental  quahty.  It  is  now  recognized 
by  physicians  as  a  physical  disease.  It  makes  itself  manifest  in  many 
ways.  Among  its  more  common  symptoms  are  anxiety  of  mind,  sleep- 
lessness, neuralgia,  nervous  sick  headache,  nervous  dyspepsia,  rose  cold 
or  hay  fever,  etc.  Certain  of  these  symptoms  were  formerly  regarded 
to  be  diseases  of  themselves,  and  were  treated  without  regard  to  causa- 
tion. The  failure  to  obtain  a  cure  in  many  cases,  and  a  recurrence  of 
the  symptoms,  is  often  due  to  the  fact  that  the  symptoms  were  treated 
and  not  the  disease.  The  severity  of  the  symptoms  can  be  mitigated 
and  perhaps  for  the  time  entirely  removed  by  the  use  of  various  reme- 
dies, aided  by  moral  treatment. 

Anxiety  of  Mind  from  whatever  cause  induced,  if  long  contined,  may 
occasion  functional  disturbances  in  various  organs  of  the  body.  It  may 
be  the  occasion  of  dyspepsia,  palpitation  of  the  heart,  inflammation  of 
the  brain,  etc.  If  treatment  is  adopted  early  it  can  usually  be  cured. 
"  Moral  therapeutics  "  are  of  more  value  than  medicine.  A  change  of 
scene,  absence  from  one's  accustomed  duties  and  surroundings,  will 
reUeve  in  many  instances  the  strain  upon  the  tired  brain  and  allow  it  to 
recover  its  lost  tone  and  vigor  without  the  aid  of  medicine. 

Sleeplessness  is  a  symptom  of  nervous  exhaustion.  Long  continued 
wakefulness  disorders  the  whole  system  and  may  lead  to  serious  disease 
of  the  brain  and  is  a  cause  of  insanity.  A  sleepless  night  cannot  be 
recovered  from  by  any  siesta  during  the  day.  It  is  only  during  the 
night  that  refreshing  sleep  can  be  procured.  Persons  troubled  with 
wakefulness  should  take  daily  exercise  in  the  open  air.  It  is  a  good 
idea  to  take  a  walk  just  before  retiring.  It  is  a  popular  error  to  sup- 
pose that  eating  just  before  bed-time  tends  to  wakefulness,  on  the  con- 
trary, a  hearty  supper  of  plain,  easily  digested  food  rather  predisposes 
to  sleep.  This  is  due  to  the  fact  that  the  process  of  digestion  requires 
an  increased  amount  of  blood  in  the  organs  that  perform  it  and  conse- 
quently less  is  sent  to  the  brain.  It  is  necessary,  however,  that  the  food 
taken  shall  be  of  a  digestible  and  non-irritating  character.  Most  of  the 
cases  of  wakefulness  among  women  are  of  a  passive  variety,  which 
require  nutritious  food  and  a  certain  amount  of  stimulants.  Of  the  lat- 
ter, sherry  wine  is  the  best.  A  wineglassful  with  dinner;  never  between 
meals.  Next  to  sherry,  good  lager  beer,  which  may  be  taken  at  any 
time. 


264:  MEDICAL. 

Alcoholic  stimulants  should  never  be  taken  except  at  meals.  By 
following  this  rule,  there  is  no  danger  of  acquiring  the  habit  of  intem- 
perance. 

In  what  is  known  as  the  active  or  sthenic  form  of  wakefulness — 
which  oftener  occurs  in  males — stimulants  would  increase  rather  than 
diminish  the  difficulty.  A  mustard  poultice  applied  to  the  stomach,  or 
cold  foot  bath  just  before  retiring,  will  sometimes  do  good. 

Sleep  always  begins  at  the  extremities ;  hence  not  only  the  mind 
should  be  at  rest,  but  the  feet  should  be  kept  still.  Various  medicines 
are  used  to  produce  sleep,  but  most  of  them  are  of  such  a  nature  that 
their  use,  except  under  the  direction  of  a  physician,  is  unadvisable. 

A  Sick  Headache  is  often  a  symptom  of  nervous  disease,  and  is 
due  to  some  irritation  of  the  nerve  which  is  connected  with  the 
stomach.  The  medicinal  agents  which  have  afforded  most  relief 
in  these  cases  are,  powdered  guarana,  thirty  grains,  to  be  taken  in 
water  and  repeated  every  hour  until  relief  is  obtained,  or  liquor  ammonia 
acetatis  (spiritus  mindereris),  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  every  hour. 
During  the  attack  the  patient  should  remain  in  a  horizontal  position,, 
and  if  there  is  much  flushing  of  the  face,  denoting  congestion,  apply  a 
bag  of  hot  salt  to  the  nape  of  the  neck. 

Rose  cold  or  hay  fever  is  due  to  an  irritation  of  the  thoracic  branches 
of  the  pneumo-gastric  nerve.  There  is  no  specific  for  it.  The  remedy 
which  seems  to  have  accomplished  most  good  is  quinine,  a  two-grain 
pill  every  two  hours  until  relieved. 

Coffee  will  relieve  about  one-half  the  cases  in  which  it  is  tried.  The 
relief  may  be  temporary  or  permanent.  Give  it  hot,  very  strong,  and 
without  sugar  or  milk,  and  on  an  empty  stomach. 

As  before  stated,  all  the  above  so-called  diseases  are  but  varieties  of 
nervous  disease,  and  a  cure  can  not  be  expected  until  the  cause  has 
been  ascertained  and  removed. 

Owing  to  the  great  prevalence  of  nervous  disease,  nervous  remedies 
are  in  especial  demand.  The  danger  is  that  when  one  particular  rem- 
edy becomes  popular  it  will  be  used  to  excess,  and  in  the  end  prove 
detrimental.  All  nervines  are  necessarily  perilous  agents,  and  should 
not  be  used  indiscriminately,  only  under  the  direction  of  a  physician. 

SICK  HEADACHE. 

Among  the  many  ills  that  human  flesh  is  heir  to,  there  is  none,  per- 
haps, more  common  than  headache.  Headache  may  arise  from  a  variety 
of  causes,  and  there  is  no  one  remedy  that  is  a  specific  for  all.  If  the 
pain  is  of  a  throbbing  and  beating  character  it  indicates  fever;  if  sharp 
and  shooting  there  is  congestion  of  the  arteries ;  if  dull  and  heavy  the 
veins  are  congested.  In  either  case  the  first  thing  to  do  is  to  try  to 
draw  the  blood  from  the  head  to  the  extremities.     Pat  the  feet  into  a 


SICK  HEADACHE.  265 

pal  of  hot  water.  Use  a  pail,  not  a  basin  or  wash-bowl,  as  it  is  neces- 
sary that  the  water  should  not  only  cover  the  feet,  but  come  up  as  high 
on  the  calves  of  the  legs  as  possible.  Add  hot  water  from  time  to  time 
keeping  the  temperature  as  hot  as  can  be  borne. 

Apply  cold  to  the  head.  This  may  be  done  by  taking  a  small  bowl 
full  of  ice  pounded  fine,  to  which  add  two  tablespoonsf ul  of  fine  salt ; 
wrap  in  a  cloth  and  apply  half  a  minute  at  a  time ;  or  take  one  ounce 
of  chloroform  and  dissolve  in  it  all  the  camphor  gum  it  will  take  up  ; 
rub  a  little  of  this  on  the  forehead  and  temples  ;  then  wet  a  cloth  (one 
thickness)  with  it,  apply  to  the  painful  spot  and  cover  with  a  dry  cloth. 
This  will  cause  a  smarting  sensation.  When  it  becomes  too  hard  to 
bear  the  cloth  it  may  be  removed  and  reapplied,  if  the  headache  has  not 
disappeared. 

A  remedy,  particularly  valuable  in  certain  forms  of  headache,  is  the 
bisulphide  of  carbon.  Put  a  piece  of  cotton  in  a  wide-mouth  bottle, 
such  a  one  as  tooth  powder  usually  comes  in  ;  pour  on  it  ten  or  fifteen 
drops  of  the  liquid,  and  place  the  mouth  of  the  bottle  over  the  painful 
part.  In  about  three  minutes  a  tingling  sensation  will  be  felt.  Let  it 
remain  until  it  begins  to  smart,  then  move  it  to  another  spot.  Many 
cases  have  been  relieved  with  this  remedy  in  ten  minutes  that  had  been 
suffering  for  hours.  The  mouth  of  the  bottle  should  be  closely  applied 
to  the  skin,  excluding  all  air,  as  it  is  the  vapor  of  the  carbon  acting  upon 
the  cutaneous  nerves  that  produce  the  result.  After  using,  the  bottle 
should  be  tightly  corked,  as  the  odor  is  not  a  pleasant  one. 

Sick  headache  is  a  common  disease  among  women.  It  arises  from 
various  causes,  and  is  apt  to  occur  at  regular  intervals.  It  is  in  most 
cases  a  curable  disease,  but  as  it  is  caused  by  different  circumstances  no 
specific  treatment  can  be  given  without  knowing  the  history  of  each 
case.  When  headache  is  the  result  of  a  cold  or  catarrh  in  the  head,  the 
following  remedy,  used  when  it  first  makes  its  appearance,  will  generally 
arrest  it:  Take  of  pure  carbolic  acid  four  scruples;  ammonia  water, 
one  and  a  half  drachms  ;  water,  two  drachms  ;  alcohol,  one  drachm  ; 
mix ;  make  a  small  cone  of  blotting  paper  and  pour  some  of  the  mixture 
upon  it  and  inhale  through  the  nose. 

In  some  forms  of  nervous  headache,  massage  or  gentle  manipulation 
of  the  head  will  soothe  like  magic.  Patients  who  were  suffering  extreme 
pain  have  often  been  relieved  in  a  few  minutes,  and  fell  asleep  under  the 
operation.  The  operator  should  stand,  the  patient  sitting  in  a  chair  in 
front  of  him.  The  clothing  should  be  loosened  about  the  waist  and 
neck  and  the  eyes  closed.  The  operator  dipping  the  hands  in  cool 
water  places  them  on  the  forehead,  the  fingers  of  one  hand  pointing 
toward  those  of  the  other.  Now  separate  the  hands  with  a  slow  motion 
and  moderately  firm  pressure,  carrying  them  across  the  forehead  down 
behind  the  ears.     Repeat  this  motion  about  five  times  a  minute  for  five 


266  MEDICAL. 

minutes,  then  with  each  hand  pick  up  the  skin  of  the  forehead,  com- 
mencing over  each  eye,  and  give  it  a  Uttle  twisting  or  rolling  motion 
between  the  fingers ;  this  motion  should  be  repeated  until  the  surface  of 
the  forehead  and  the  temples  has  been  worked  upon.  In  the  case  of 
delicately  wrought  nervous  organizations  you  will  scarcely  fail  to  obtain 
the  result. 

There  is  another  form  of  the  disease  classed  as  headache,  which  is 
not  really  an  ache,  but  a  dizziness  or  giddiness.  It  may  be  only 
piomentar)%  or  it  may  last  for  a  long  time.  It  generally  comes  on  sud- 
denly and  without  warning. 

This  is  sometimes  due  to  errors  in  diet,  but  oftener  to  more  serious 
trouble,  and  should  never  be  neglected.  The  advice  of  a  physician 
should  be  sought  in  all  cases. 

CONGESTIVE  CHILLS. 

This  disease  is  the  same  as  intermittent  fever,  commonly  known  as 
fever  and  ague,  only  in  a  severer  form,  and  occurs  in  patients  who  are 
already  prostrated  from  other  causes. 

For  a  day  or  two  previous  to  the  accession  of  the  disease,  the  patient 
feels  languid,  restless  and  feeble  with  some  oppression  in  breathing. 
A  chill  more  or  less  severe  follows  a  headache,  not  sharp  or  acute  but 
dull  and  heavy  in  character.  The  principal  danger  in  the  disease  is 
congestion  of  the  lungs  or  brain. 

The  best  remedy,  and  one  which  can  always  be  kept  at  hand,  is 
quinine ;  or  what  answers  the  same  purpose  at  a  much  less  cost,  dextro- 
quinine.  It  can  be  obtained  in  the  form  of  a  powder  or  in  pills ;  the 
latter  are  the  more  convenient  to  administer. 

Give  iifteen  grains  (five  three-grain  pills)  upon  the  first  symptoms  of 
the  disease,  and  if  a  chill  occurs  give  two  grains  every  two  hours. 
During  the  cold  stage  use  hot  water  bottles  to  the  feet,  plenty  of  blan- 
kets and  hot  drinks. 

During  the  hot  stage  which  follows  use  cold  cloths  to  the  head  wrung 
out  in  a  mixture  of  vinegar  and  water.  Tonics  and  stimulants  are 
needed  in  most  cases. 

DYSPEPSIA  AND  ITS  CURES. 

Dyspepsia  is  much  mare  frequent  in  this  country  than  in  any  other. 
Fully  one-fourth  of  the  adult  population  suffer  to  a  greater  or  less 
extent  from  it.  It  is  occasioned  by  improper  eating  in  several  ways. 
Eating  too  much,  too  fast  or  too  often.  In  the  digestive  organs  in 
which  the  processes  by  which  the  food  is  digested  is  carried  on,  the 
functions  are  imperfectly  performed.  It  affects  not  only  the  stomach 
but  various  other  organs,  the  Hver,  the  spleen,  the  bowels  and  also  the 
mental  organism. 


DYSPEPSIA  AND  ITS  CURES,  2GT 

Another  cause  of  dyspepsia  is  the  drinking  of  ice-water  and  iced  tea. 
Iced  tea  is  the  cause  of  more  diseases  than  one  would  think,  gastric 
fever  being  not  the  least  of  them.  Indigestion  is  another  cause,  and 
those  who  are  troubled  in  this  way  should  be  in  the  sun  as  much  as 
possible,  and  try  to  lie  in  the  sun  at  least  an  hour;  expose  the  body  to 
sunshine,  especially  the  back.  Those  who  take  plenty  of  exercise,  eat 
good,  healthy  food,  and  live  in  the  sunshine,  will  seldom  have  indiges- 
tion or  dyspepsia.  Tea  is  a  most  fruitful  source  of  dyspepsia,  because 
it  is  usually  drank  to  excess. 

On  account  of  the  various  organs  liable  to  be  implicated,  the  range  of 
symptoms  is  very  great.  Some  of  the  most  common  are  loss  of  appe- 
tite, nausea,  acid  eructations  or  heartburn,  sense  of  weight  and  fullness 
in  the  stomach  after  eating,  giddiness  when  walking,  as  if  the  pavement 
was  rising  up  immediately  in  front  of  one,  constipation  and  sallow  skin ; 
in  advanced  stages  cough  which  is  often  mistaken  for  a  symptom  of 
disease  of  the  lungs,  loss  of  ambition  and  energy,  despondency,  etc. 
These  are  but  a  few  of  the  symptoms  which  present  themselves. 

To  those  unacquainted  with  the  pathology  of  the  disease  some  of  the 
symptoms,  when  present,  may  lead  them  to  think  the  cause  of  the 
trouble  is  different  from  what  it  really  is.  A  very  common  symptom 
is  palpitation  of  the  heart.  Those  who  have  this  almost  invariably 
imagine  that  they  have  heart  disease,  and  often  suffer  not  only  physi- 
cally from  the  distress  caused  thereby,  but  mentally  from  fear  of  sud- 
den death.  The  cause  of  a  fit  of  the  blues  may  be  a  portion  of  undi- 
gested food.  The  treatment  of  this  affliction  must  have  a  two-fold 
object :  To  relieve  the  distress  and  to  remove  the  cause.  Bearing  in 
mind  the  cause  of  the  trouble,  the  diet  should  be  so  regulated  as  to  give 
the  digestive,  organs  as  little  work  to  perform  as  possible.  Only  the 
most  digestible  food  should  be  used,  and  in  such  quantities  as  not  to 
overtax  the  stomach.  The  common  symptom  of  acid  eructations  or 
belching  of  wind  may  be  relieved  by  taking  from  one  to  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  willow  charcoal  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  glycerine  in  a  Httle 
water  after  each  meal.  The  prepared  charcoal  may  be  found  at  any 
druggist's. 

Heartburn,  so-called,  indicates  a  too  acid  condition  of  the  stomach, 
which  should  be  counteracted  by  means  of  alkalies.  A  half-teaspoon- 
ful  of  magnesia  or  bicarbonate  of  soda  taken  in  a  little  water,  will  often 
relieve  at  once  this  disagreeable  symptom. 

When  there  is  a  sallow  look  to  the  skin,  and  a  torpid  condition  of  the 
bowels  the  liver  is  implicated.  In  such  cases  use  pellets  of  podophyllin, 
one-fortieth  of  a  grain.  They  may  be  obtained  of  any  druggist,  and 
will  effectually  relieve  constipation  and  engorgement  of  the  liver.  Either 
kind  may  be  used  three  times  a  day.  Where  there  is  palpitation  of  the 
heart,  with  some  debility,  the  following  will  be  of  use : 


268  MEDICAL. 

Tincture  of  cinchona  compound,  four  ounces ;  citrate  of  iron,  thirty- 
two-grains  ;  sulphate  magnesia,  one  drachm.  Take  a  tpaspoonful  three 
times  a  day  before  meals. 

Some  of  its  Cures — for  it  can  be  cured  by  strict  attention  to  diet,  exer- 
cise and  sleep — are  here  given.  Oranges  eaten  early  in  the  morning,  one 
before  breakfast,  are  very  beneficial,  and  often  entirely  cure  the  malady, 
A  few  drops  of  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia,  drank  in  a  small  glass  of 
water,  will  also  often  give  relief.  Milk  and  lime-water  is  also  beneficial. 
To  a  goblet  of  milk  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  lime-water — this  is  a 
good  proportion.  Pepsin  and  wine — the  druggist  will  prepare  it  in  the 
right  proportions — will  quickly  relieve  heartburn,  produced  by  dyspep- 
sia, or  the  pain  that  the  disease  produces.  Or  this  :  One  ounce  pulver- 
ized charcoal ;  one  ounce  magnesia  (calcined)  ;  one-half  ounce  ginger. 
Have  a  druggist  compound  it ;  take  a  teaspoonful  of  the  mixture  and 
drink  with  half  a  glass  of  cold  water  after  each  meal. 

But  after  all,  all  the  remedies  in  the  world  will  not  cure  this  disease 
unless  the  manner  of  eating  and  the  food  is  strictly  attended  to.  The 
meals  should  be  taken  with  regularity,  and  those  articles  of  food 
avoided  which  experience  proves  to  be  unsuitable  or  which  produce  dis- 
comfort. 

TREATMENT  OF  THE  EYE. 

One  of  the  most  common  of  the  minor  accidents  occuring  to  nearly 
every  one,  is  getting  small  particles  of  almost  any  substance  in  the  eye. 
Usually  the  extra  amount  of  tears  which  flow  after  any  such  mishap 
carry  off  the  foreign  substance,  especially  if  aided  by  a  gentle  rubbing 
of  the  eye  toward  the  nose.  In  case  this  process  should  fail,  here 
are  one  or  two  other  methods  of  relief. 

One  excellent  way  is  to  place  a  knitting-needle  over  the  upper  lid^ 
just  under  the  edge  of  the  orbit,  and  then — holding  it  firmly— turn  the 
lid  backward  over  the  needle.  This  exposes  the  intruder,  which  can  be 
removed  by  lightly  applying  the  corner  of  a  silk  or  cambric  handker- 
chief. If  the  substance  be  imbedded  in  the  membrane,  use  must  be 
made  of  a  sharp-pointed  instrument. 

Very  often,  after  the  speck  is  removed,  a  little  soreness  will  be  left 
in  the  eye — a  very  natural  consequence.  To  relieve  this,  is  recom- 
mended the  following :  Pour  into  a  heated  spoon  a  few  drops  of  lauda- 
num, which,  in  a  few  minutes,  will  become  jelly-hke ;  dissolve  in  a  few 
drops  of  water,  and  use  as  a  wash  for  the  wounded  organ.  The  lauda- 
num is  an  extract  of  opium  dissolved  in  alcohol,  which  would  be  very 
irritating ;  but  the  heating  evaporates  the  alcohol,  and  the  water  takes 
its  place. 

A  more  serious,  but  still  common,  accident  to  the  eye,  is  the  unfortu- 
nate introduction  of  a  particle  of  lime.  As  this  alkali  is  a  very  power- 
ful and  active  one,  the  remedy  must  be  applied  at  once.     Immediately 


A  VISIT  WITH  THE  DOCTOR.  269 

dilute  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  or  lemon-juice  in  a  little  water,  and  bring 
it  in  contact  with  the  lime  in  the  eye.  This  will  neutralize  the  effect  of 
the  alkali.  Even  after  this,  it  will  be  necessary  to  consult  a  physician, 
for  the  injury  to  the  eye  is  apt  to  be  severe.  Always  avoid  all  of  the 
popular  "eyewashes"  or  "salves"  so  extensively  advertised. 

Rest  the  eyes  for  a  few  minutes  when  the  sight  becomes  in  the  least 
painful,  blurred  or  indistinct. 

Have  sufficient  light ;  never  sit  facing  it ;  let  it  come  from  behind  or 
from  one  side.  It  is  considered  by  oculists  that  too  much  light  is 
almost  as  bad  as  too  little.  They  strongly  recommend  a  moderate  light, 
so  that  surrounding  objects  may  not  be  too  much  illuminated,  and  the 
wearing  of  a  black  shade,  so  large  that  front  and  side  light  may  not 
enter  the  eyes.  With  this  protection  the  light  may  be  safely  in  front — 
if  reading,  it  is  better  that  it  be  to  one  side. 

Never  read  in  horse  or  steam  cars. 

Never  read  when  lying  down. 

Do  not  read  much  during  convalescence  from  illness. 

The  general  health  should  be  maintained  by  a  good  diet,  air,  exercise, 
amusement  and  a  proper  restriction  of  the  hours  of  hard  work. 

Take  plenty  of  sleep.  Retire  early  and  avoid  the  painful  evening 
lights.    Ten  hours'  sleep  for  delicate  eyes  is  better  than  eight. 

A  VISIT  WITH  THE  DOCTOR. 

"  My  best  assistants,"  says  the  good  old  doctor,  "  are  catnip,  smart- 
weed,  horseradish  leaves  and  mustard  plasters." 

When  baking,  if  you  touch  your  finger  against  the  oven  door  or  a  hot 
pan,  the  instant  application  of  a  little  mucilage  will  alleviate  the  pain 
and  heal  the  blister. 

Aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia,  if  inhaled,  will  often  cure  a  catarrhal 
cold. 

Spearmint  and  sage  tea  is  good  for  children  troubled  with  worms, 
and  warm  water  a  trifle  sweetened  is  good  for  the  stomach  ache. 

The  instant  anyone  is  stung,  wet  some  cut  tobacco  and  lay  it  at  once 
on  the  spot.     Hold  it  there  a  few  minutes  and  the  cure  is  complete. 

For  a  burn,  if  the  skin  is  not  broken  use  raw  linseed  oil,  or  varnish 
If  the  skin  be  broken,  wet  with  a  feather  and  the  white  of  an  tgg,  and 
sift  on  charcoal  through  thin  muslin. 

Steep  some  fine  cut  tobacco  until  it  is  a  strong  solution,  and  mix  with 
clean,  fresh  lard — enough  to  color  the  lard  a  dark  brown — it  is  one  of 
the  best  ointments  for  burns,  scalds,  sores,  etc.,  in  the  market. 

For  sprains,  take  one  part  blue  clay  and  two  parts  vinegar  and 
make  into  a  paste  and  bind  on  at  night  with  a  wet  towel.  One  appli- 
cation is  generally  sufficient. 

. -To  draw  fire  from  a  burn,  wet  the  burn  with  pulverized  alum  dis- 
solved in  water,  the  stronger  the  better. 


270  MEDICAL, 

Liniment  for  pain  proceeding  from  cold — Half  pint  spirits  turpen- 
tine, half  pmt  vinegar,  one  raw  ^gg.  Shake  all  well  together  and  rub 
part  affected  night  and  morning  with  a  flannel  rag. 

For  a  cut,  wash  off  the  blood  in  cold  water  and  bind  it  up  with  a 
clean  cotton  bandage ;  if  it  inclines  to  bleed  put  on  scraped  lint,  after 
bringing  the  edges  of  the  wound  together  as  closely  as  possible,  and 
bind  it  rather  tight. 

Milk  is  found  to  form  an  excellent  solvent  for  quinine,  and  also  to 
disguise,  in  a  measure,  the  bitterness  of  that  drug.  It  will  be  found 
particularly  useful  in  administering  quinine  to  children.  Five  grains  in 
a  tumbler  of  milk  is  almost  tasteless. 

For  a  cough  or  a  tickling  in  the  throat,  take  the  juice  of  two  lemons, 
the  beaten  white  of  one  ^gg  and  enough  powdered  or  fine  granulated 
white  sugar  to  make  a  thin  paste.  A  teaspoonful  of  this  mixture  will 
allay  the  irritation  and  cure  a  cough  in  its  early  stages. 

The  leaves  of  the  geranium  are  an  excellent  application  for  cuts, 
when  the  skm  is  rubbed  off,  and  other  wounds  of  the  same  kind ;  one 
or  two  leaves  must  be  bruised  and  applied  on  linen  to  the  part,  and  the 
wound  will  become  cicatrized  in  a  very  short  time. 

Lint  dipped  in  nettle  juice  and  put  up  the  nostril  will  stay  the  bleed- 
ing of  the  nose.  Fourteen  or  fifteen  of  the  seeds  ground  into  powder 
and  taken  daily  will  cure  swelling  of  the  neck,  known  as  goitre,  without 
in  any  way  injuring  the  health. 

To  allay  irritation  and  stop  vomiting,  take  in  the  proportion  of  one 
teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  to  a  teacup  of  vinegar ;  dose 
one  tablespoon,  or  less,  every  fifteen  minutes.  This  is  also  useful  to 
bathe  painful  parts,  as  headache,  bruises,  sprains,  and  is  excellent 
used  as  a  gargle  for  a  sore  throat. 

For  a  cold  on  the  lungs  grease  a  cloth  and  sprinkle  with  fine  salt  and 
apply  to  the  chest.  If  congestion  is  feared,  make  a  mustard  paste, 
mixing  the  mustard  with  glycerine  which  will  prevent  blistering  without 
taking  from  the  efficacy  of  the  mustard. 

A  nice  wash  for  the  delicate  skins  of  infants  is  made  by  obtaining 
maple  twigs.  Put  a  small  lump  of  alum  in  and  boil  with  the  twigs. 
Wash  the  tender  places  with  this  in  lieu  of  water. 

Probably  not  all  know  the  efficacy  of  dry  heat  in  relieving  pains. 
Earache  can  quickly  be  cured  by  heating  a  folded  cloth  against  a  stove- 
pipe, laying  on  the  ear,  and  changing  for  another  as  fast  as  they  can  be 
heated.  It  is  best  to  first  fill  the  ear  with  melted  lard,  which  should  be 
only  blood  warm. 

If  any  are  troubled  with  bronchitis  or  asthma,  smoke  dried  mullein 
leaves  two  or  three  times  a  day.  Use  a  common  clay  pipe  and  smoke 
night  and  morning;  oftener  if  necessar}'.  Several  severe  cases  of  bron- 
chitis, and  of  several  years'  standing,  have  been  cured  by  smoking  these 
leaves. 


PRESCRIPTIONS  AND  CURES.  271 

Stammering  may  be  cured  by  reading  aloud  for  an  hour  or  two  each 
day  keeping  the  teeth  shut  tightly  together.  Speak  slowly  and  as  dis- 
tinctly as  possible,  and  the  difficulty  may  be  overcome  in  time. 

Those  who  are  troubled  with  cold  feet,  should  get  a  hard-wood  board, 
set  it  up  before  the  kitchen  stove  a  few  minutes  until  heated,  and  then 
it  will  be  warm  to'  stand  upon  while  washing,  ironing,  baking  and 
washing  dishes,  or  even  can  be  used  while  sitting  to  sew  or  read,  and 
will  save  much  time  that  is  otherwise  lost  by  stopping  to  warm  the 
feet.  If  you  don't  do  your  own  work  it  is  well  to  have  one  for  the  girl, 
for  her  feet  are  as  likely  to  get  cold  this  weather  as  yours,  and  she  will 
be  enabled  to  do  more  work  and  with  greater  comfort  with  the  hot 
plank  than  without  it.  A  loop  of  strong  cloth  can  be  tacked  to  one  end 
to  hang  it  away  by  when  not  in  use. 

To  prevent  wearing  through  the  skin  when  bed-ridden,  apply  to 
tender  parts  of  the  body  with  a  feather  a  lotion  made  by  beating  to  a 
stiff  froth,  the  white  of  an  egg.     Bottle  for  use. 

To  drop  medicine  correctly,  shake  the  bottle  so  as  to  moisten  the 
cork.  With  the  wet  end  of  the  cork  moisten  the  edges  of  the  bottle, 
then  holding  the  cork  under  the  mouth  of  the  bottle,  let  the  fluid  pass 
over  the  cork  in  dropping. 

A  self  holder  for  a  spoon,  when  both  hands  are  occupied,  is  to  place 
the  handle  of  the  spoon  between  the  leaves  of  a  closed  book  lying  on 
the  table. 

A  valuable  means  of  disinfectant  in  a  sick  room  is  coffee,  to  be 
burned  on  hot  coals  or  a  hot  shovel.  If  a  small  piece  of  camphor  gum 
is  placed  in  the  center  of  the  coals  and  coffee,  the  atmosphere  will  soon 
be  cleared  and  the  nurse  and  patient  invigorated. 

PRESCRIPTIONS  AND  CURES. 

Poultices  are  better  for  the  addition  of  a  little  sweet  or  castor  oil 
and  a  few  drops  of  laudanum. 

Swelled  Neck — Wash  the  part  with  brine,  and  drink  it  also  tAvice  a 
day  until  cured. 

Bee  or  Wasp  Stings — Wet  saleratus  and  tie  on  instantly. 

Snake  Bites — Roll  plantain  leaves  and  bruise  them  ;  tie  them  on  the 
bite  and  drink  a  quantity  of  whisky. 

A  Nail  Run  into  the  Foot — Fresh  beet  thoroughly  pounded  ;  apply 
to  the  part  frequently.     Mothers  with  barefoot  boys  take  heed. 

To  Stop  the  Flow  of  Blood — Bind  the  cut  with  cobwebs  and  brown 
sugar,  pressed  on  like  lint  ;  or,  if  you  cannot  procure  these,  with  the  fine 
dust  of  tea. 

To  Remove  Substances  from  the  Eye — Make  a  loop  of  a  bristle  or 
horse  hair,  insert  it  under  the  lid,  and  then  withdraw  slowly  and  care- 
fully.    This  is  said  to  be  never-failing. 


272  MEDICAL, 

Asthma — Soak  blotting  or  tissue  paper  in  strong  saltpetre  water. 
Dry  and  burn  at  night  in  the  bedroom. 

In  Cases  of  Sunstroke  remove  the  patient  to  the  shade,  lay  him  down 
full  length,  apply  cold  water  to  his  head  and  lips,  and  keep  his  lower 
limbs  warm. 

Proud  Flesh — Pulverize  loaf  sugar  very  fine  and  apply  it  to  the  part 
afflicted.  This  is  a  new  and  easy  remedy,  and  is  said  to  remove  it  with- 
out pain  ;  or  burnt  alum  pulverized  and  applied  is  an  old  and  reliable 
remedy. 

Felons — As  soon  as  the  parts  begin  to  swell  get  the  tincture  of  lobelia 
and  wrap  the  part  affected  with  a  cloth  ;  saturate  it  thoroughly  with  the 
tincture  and  the  felon  will  soon  die,  poisoned.  This  never  fails  if  tried 
in  season. 

Mustard  Plaster — By  using  syrup  or  molasses  for  mustard  plasters, 
they  will  keep  soft  and  flexible,  and  not  dry  up  and  become  hard,  as 
when  mixed  with  water.  A  thin  paper,  or  fine  cloth  should  come 
between  the  plaster  and  the  skin.  The  strength  of  the  plaster  is  varied 
by  the  addition  of  more  or  less  flour. 

To  Prevent  Choking — Break  an  t.^g  into  a  cup  and  give  it  to  the  per- 
son choking,  to  swaliow.  The  white  of  the  ^g^  seems  to  catch  around 
the  obstacle  and  remove  it.  If  one  ^g<g  does  not  answer  the  purpose 
XTj  another.  The  white  is  all  that  is  necessary.  This  will  also  remove 
fish  bones. 

Colic — For  the  violent  internal  agony  termed  colic,  .take  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  in  a  pint  of  cold  water;  drink  it  and  go  to  bed.  It  is  one  of  the 
speediest  remedies  knov/n.  The  same  will  revive  a  person  who  seems 
almost  dead  from  a  hea\y  fall. 

For  Toothache  caused  by  cold,  a  woolen  cloth  of  several  thicknesses 
wet  with  vinegar  and  put  over  a  hot  brick  or  stone,  with  something 
thrown  over  the  head  to  keep  in  all  the  steam ;  or,  put  a  piece  of  cotton 
dipped  in  collodion  into  the  tooth.  When  hardened  it  will  adhere 
strongly,  and  stop  the  pain. 

Salt  Rheum — Get  12  grains  arseniate  of  soda;  dissolve  in  12  ounces 
of  water  and  take  a  teaspoonful  three  times  a  day.  Also  use  an  oint- 
ment composed  of  citrine  (mercurial)  ointment  and  lard  equal  parts. 
Should  the  eyes  become  swollen  decrease  the  dose  of  arseniate  of  soda. 

Croup  can  be  cured  in  a  minute  by  administering  a  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  alum  in  twice  that  quantity  of  sugar  to  make  it  palatable  ; 
almost  instantaneous  relief  will  follow.  A  towel  or  flannel  cloth  wrung 
out  of  hot  vinegar  in  which  a  little  salt  has  been  added,  and  placed  upon 
the  chest  and  throat,  changing  every  ten  minutes,  with  a  dry  towel 
thoroughly  covering  it,  often  materially  assists  in  relieving  an  attack  of 
croup; 

Canker  Sore  Mouth  —  Use   common   craneshill   root   steeped   and 


PRESCRIPTIONS  AND  CURES.  273 

sweetened  with  honey,  as  a  mouth  wash.  Use  frequently  ;  or  wash  the 
mouth  with  a  tea  made  from  the  fruit  of  the  staghorn  sumach  (rhus 
typhina),  at  the  same  time  take  a  teaspoonful  internally.  Repeat  every 
few  hours  until  a  cure  is  effected. 

Hydrophobia~'Y2:j.&  the  root  of  common  upland  ash,  generally  called 
black  ash,  peel  off  the  bark,  and  boil  it  to  a  strong  decoction.  Take 
one  gill  three  times  a  day  for  eight  or  ten  days. 

If  bitten  by  a  mad  dog,  the  wound  should  be  cut  out  as  soon  as  pos- 
sible, thoroughly  washed  with  aqua-ammonia,  or,  for  want  of  that,  in  a 
solution  of  potash  or  common  salt. 

The  bite  of  the  rattlesnake  and  most  common  bites  and  stings  may- 
be cured  in  this  way. 

Rheumatism — Take  ten  grains  of  salicylic  acid  three  times  a  day  for 
three  days,  and  if  very  severe,  take  the  same  amount  four  or  five  times 
a  day ;  take  in  a  little  cold  water.  This  is  also  good  for  neuralgia. 
Inflammatory  rheumatism  is  relieved  by  steeping  wormwood  in  vinegar, 
wringing  a  flannel  out  of  the  decoction,  applying  while  hot  and  renevy- 
ing  often. 

Warts — Cut  a  slice  from  a  raw  potato  and  rub  the  hand  each  night ; 
let  the  water  dry  on  the  hand.  It  will  need  but  few  applications  ;  or, 
get  five  cents  worth  of  spirits  of  salts  and  apply  frequently  to  the  warts 
and  they  will  soon  disappear.     The  milk  of  milkweed  is  also  good. 

Neu7-algia — Two  drops  laudanum  in  half  a  teaspoonful  of  warm 
water  and  dropped  into  the  ears ;  it  will  give  immediate  relief  ;  or  tliis, 
squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon  into  a  small  cup  of  strong  coffee.  This 
will  usually  afford  immediate  relief  in  neuralgic  headache.  Tea  ordin- 
arily increases  neuralgic  pain,  and  ought  not  to  be  used  by  persons 
affected  with  it. 

Ru7i  Rounds — Bathe  freely  and  frequently  in  turpentine,  and  bind  on 
a  cloth  well  saturated  in  it ;  or  take  a  piece  of  common  soap  about  the 
size  of  a  hickory  nut,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  water  enough  to  melt  the  whole  ;  thicken  with  oatmeal,  and  boil  ten 
minutes  ;  apply  as  a  poultice. 

Sprains — There  is  nothing  better  than  a  strong  decoction  of  worm- 
wood and  vinegar.  A  flannel  cloth  wrung  out  of  the  above  just  as  hot 
as  the  patient  will  bear,  and  bound  on  the  affected  part  will  give  imme- 
diate relief.  The  pain  of  a  sprained  limb  is  quickly  removed  by  ice- 
cold  water.  The  terrible  pangs  of  whitlow  or  felon  are  cut  short  by 
intense  heat.  A  large  proportion  of  all  cramp  and  spasms  can  be 
relieved  by  water  of  proper  temperature  and  intelligently  applied. 

Cuts  or  Bruises — Tobacco,  wet  with  spirits  or  water,  bound  on  a 

fresh  cut  or  bruise  will  save  much   pain   and   soreness.     The  tobacco 

should  be  kept  moist  by  occasionally  wetting  the  bandage  with  warm 

water.     Fresh  tobacco  should  be  applied  every  day  till  the  soreness  is 

18 


274  MEDICAL, 

gone ;  then  remove  it  and  put  a  piece  of  court  plaster  over  the  wound, 
so  as  to  exclude  the  air,  and  it  will  soon  heal  without  further  trouble. 

Colds — Take  two  teaspoonfuls  of  water,  one  of  molasses  and  one  of 
pain  killer ;  sip  down  and  cover  warmly.  It  is  well  to  bathe  the  chest 
also  with  the  pain  killer.  A  very  bad  cold  may  be  broken  up  directly 
with  this  careful  treatment. 

Gargle  for  Sore  Throat. — Take  one  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  pint  of  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar ;  sweeten  to  taste  with  honey  or  loaf  sugar.  Mix  together  and  bot- 
tle. 

Cure  for  Hoarseness— Take  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat  them 
with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  grate  in  a  little  nutmeg,  then  add 
a  pint  of  lukewarm  water ;  stir  well,  drink  often  and  it  will  cure  the 
most  obstinate  case  of  hoarseness  in  a  short  time.  Or,  at  night,  before 
going  to  bed,  have  ready  a  pint  bowl  into  which  you  have  squeezed  tlT,e 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  add  to  this  one  teaspoonful  of  glycerine  and  one 
or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  good  whisky  or  best  brandy,  pour  over  boiling 
water,  sweeten  well  with  loaf  sugar,  and  drink  very  hot. 

Diphtheria — Dissolve  one  tablespoonful  of  sulphur  in  a  glass  of  cold 
water ;  gargle  the  throat  six  or  eight  times  a  day.  Cook  salt  pork  in 
vinegar  and  bind  on  the  throat ;  when  the  paroxysms  come  on  soak  the 
hands  and  feet  in  just  as  hot  water  as  the  patient  will  bear,  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  baking  soda  thrown  in.  Rubbing  the  limbs  and  body 
will  assist  greatly  in  throwing  off  the  disease.  The  simple  sulphur  rem- 
edy is  very  effectual  in  common  sore  throat. 

Asthma — Take  pulverized  stramonium  leaves  one  ounce,  add  one 
drachm  pulverized  nitre ;  divide  this  mass  into  eight  parts,  to  be  used 
as  follows,  only  when  symptoms  of  asthma  appear,  viz  :  Heat  a  shovel, 
or  any  flat  piece  of  iron  that  will  hold  heat,  for  ten  minutes  ;  sprinkle  one 
of  the  eight  parts  on  the  hot  iron  and  inhale  as  much  of  the  smoke  as 
possible.  Then  bathe  the  chest  thoroughly,  with  the  flat  of  the  hand, 
with  one  part  each  of  best  olive  oil  and  Jamaica  rum  (which  is  a  black 
rum)  ;  none  other  is  good  for  an  embrocation. 

Lockjaw — If  any  person  is  threatened  or  taken  with  lockjaw  from 
injuries  of  the  arm,  hands,  legs  or  feet,  do  not  wait  for  a  doctor,  but  put 
the  part  injured  in  the  following  preparation  :  Put  hot  wood  ashes  into 
water  as  warm  as  can  be  borne ;  if  the  injured  part  cannot  be  put  into 
water,  then  wet  thick  folded  cloths  in  the  water,  and  apply  them  to  the 
part  as  soon  as  possible,  and  at  the  same  time  bathe  the  backbone  from 
the  neck  down  with  some  laxative  stimulant — say  cayenne  pepper  and 
water,  or  mustard  and  water  (good  vinegar  is  better  than  water) ;  it 
should  be  as  hot  as  the  patient  can  bear  it.  Don't  hesitate;  go  at  work 
and  do  it,  and  don't  stop  until  the  jaws  will  come  open.  No  person 
need  die  of  lockjaw  if  these  directions  are  followed. 


PRESCRIPTIONS  AND  CURES.  275 

Corns — Apply  morning  and  evening  one  drop  of  solution  of  per- 
chloride  of  iron.  Soak  them  in  hot  alum  water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne; 
alum  the  size  of  a  walnut  in  a  bowl  of  water.  Take  a  salve  of  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  ammonia  and  one  of  cam- 
phor. Bind  this  on  to  the  corn  and  wear  it  all  the  time,  renewing  the 
salve  often  and  you  will  have  no  trouble. 

Bunions — Buckskin  leather  an  inch  or  two  across,  with  a  hole  cut  in 
the  center  the  size  of  the  corn.  Wear  it  until  the  corns  or  bunions  cease 
to  pain  you.  By  sewing  a  narrow  band  on  and  slipping  it  over  the  toe 
it  will  keep  the  shoe  from  rubbing  it.  A  strong  mixture  of  carbolic  acid 
and  glycerine  used  in  equal  portions  makes  a  good  application,  but  must 
be  kept  out  of  the  way,  for  it  is  a  burning  poison.  Bay  rum  or  vaseline 
is  a  soothing  application  if  they  are  very  painful.  A  weak  solution  of 
carbolic  acid  will  heal  soft  corns  between  the  toes. 

Or  take  a  small  onion,  split  it  and  rub  the  joint  with  a  fresh  half  each 
night  and  morning.  To  paint  it  with  the  tincture  of  iodine  is  also 
good. 

Frosted  Feet — One  ounce  of  mutton  suet,  one  ounce  of  rosin ;  melt 
together  the  rosin  and  suet ;  when  nearly  cold  add  the  yolk  of  one  ^g^, 
beating  all  together  thoroughly.     It  will  relieve  as  soon  as  applied. 

Perspiring  Feet — Soak  them  every  night  before  retiring  in  warm 
water,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  bi-carbonate  soda  in  the  bath,  and  in  the 
morning  in  cold  water,  to  which  has  been  added  a  teaspoonful  of  pow- 
dered alum.  Or  wash  them  in  water  in  which  a  tablespoonful  of 
ammonia  has  been  put.  Woolen  stockings  will  cause  perspiration  of 
the  feet. 

I?tgrowi7tg  Toe  Nails — Keep  the  nails  scraped  thin  on  top.  Take  a 
little  tallow  and  put  it  into  a  spoon  and  heat  it  over  the  lamp  until  it 
becomes  very  hot ;  then  put  it  on  the  sore  or  granulation.  The  effect 
will  be  almost  magical.  The  operation  causes  very  little  pain  if  the  tal- 
low is  perfectly  heated.  Then  take  a  piece  of  twine,  push  it  under  the 
toe  nail  as  far  as  possible,  then  bring  the  ends  up  and  tie  a  hard  knot 
directly  on  top  of  the  nail,  then  pass  the  ends  down  around  the  foot  or 
any  way  that  will  fasten  them  so  the  knot  will  remain  on  top  the  nail. 
Never  cut  off  the  corners,  but  let  the  nail  grow  perfectly  square.  A 
notch  in  the  middle  sometimes  does  good. 

Chilblains — In  the  evening,  before  retiring,  take  salt  and  vinegar, 
made  as  hot  as  can  be  borne  on  the  parts  affected ;  bathe  with  a  small 
cloth,  and  do  so  until  cured. 

Or  slice  raw  potatoes,  with  the  skins  on,  and  sprinkle  over  them  a  lit- 
tle salt,  and  as  soon  as  the  Hquid  therefrom  settles  in  the  bottom  of  the 
dish,  wash  with  it  the  chilblains;  one  application  is  all  that  is  neces-^ 
sary. 

This  is  a  severe  cure,  but  effectual :     Take  a  saucer  of  kerosene  oil 


276  MEDICAL. 

and  add  a  handful  of  salt,  mix  thoroughly  and  apply  to  chilblains ;  then 
heat  the  chilblains  at  a  very  hot^fire;  when  the  heat  becomes  unbear- 
able, "grit "  your  teeth  and  bear  a  little  longer ;  as  soon  as  the  pain  sub- 
sides a  little,  repeat  the  operation.     Do  this  three  or  four  times. 

For  Cold  Sores — Cold  cream.  Oil  of  sweet  almonds,  two  and  one- 
half  ounces ;  spermaceti,  one  and  one-half  ounces ;  white  wax,  one-half 
ounce ;  glycerine,  one-half  ounce ;  otter  of  roses,  five  drops.  Put  the 
perfumery  in  the  glycerine.  Melt  the  ingredients  in  a  shallow  earthern 
dish  over  hot  water,  adding  the  glycerine  last ;  then  after  taking 
from  the  fire,  stir  it  until  white  and  cold,  then  put  up  in  something 
tight. 

Lime  Water — A  "  handy  "  thing  to  have  in  the  house  is  a  jar  or  bot- 
tle of  lime  water.  Pour  water  over  unslaked  lime  (the  quantity  is  not 
important,  as  only  a  certain  amount  will  be  slacked),  and  cork  up  few- 
use.  A  person  who  needs  milk,  but  whose  digestion  is  so  weak  as  not 
to  manage  it,  v/ill  find  no  inconvenience  if  into  a  glass  of  the  fluid 
is  stirred  a  wineglass  of  lime  water.  The  difference  in  taste  is  not 
perceptible. 

Sticking-Plaster — An  excellent  sticking-plaster  for  fresh  cuts  or 
cracked  hands  is  made  of  three  pounds  of  rosin,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
beeswax,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  mutton  tallow.  When  well  melted 
and  dissolved  together,  remove  from  the  fire  and  keep  stirring  till  it  is 
about  as  cool  as  it  will  pour ;  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  spirits  of 
turpentine ;  then  pour  the  whole  into  a  pail  of  cold  water,  and  when 
cool  enough  take  it  out  and  work  it  as  a  shoemaker  does  his  wax. 
When  suffici^ently  worked,  roll  it  out  in  small  sticks.  This  is  equal  to 
any  plaster  ever  bought.  Keep  the  hands  greased,  to  prevent  it  from 
sticking  to  them  while  working  it. 

Sand  Bags  for  the  Sick  Room — For  those  who  suffer  with  cold 
hands  or  feet  use  a  sand  bag  until  they  get  warm.  It  does  not  pay 
to  have  cold  feet  if  there  is  any  way  to  get  them  warm,  and  a  sand  bag 
is  better  than  a  soap-stone  or  bottle  of  hot  water.  Get  some  clean,  fine 
sand,  dry  it  thoroughly  in  a  kettle  on  the  stove,  make  a  bag  about  eight 
inches  square  of  flannel,  fill  it  with  the  dry  sand,  sew  the  opening  care- 
fully together,  and  cover  the  bag  with  cotton  or  linen  cloth.  This  will 
prevent  the  sand  from  sifting  out  and  will  also  enable  you  to  heat  the 
bag  quickly  by  placing  it  in  the  oven,  or  even  on  the  top  of  the  stove. 
It  is  a  good  plan  to  make  two  or  three  of  the  bags  and  keep  them  ready 

for  use. 

ANTIDOTES  FOR  POISONING. 

Always  try  to  provoke  vomiting.  To  do  this  warm  water  may  be 
used,  with  or  without  ground  mustard  (a  tablespoonful  to  a  pint  of 
water)  or  ipecac  (a  teaspoon ful  of  the  powder  or  a  tablespoonful  or  two 
of  the  syrup),  and  thrusting  a  finger  down  the  throat.     It  is  best  to  give 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK,  277 

large  quantities  (that  is,  a  pint  at  a  time)  of  warm  water,  whenever  vom- 
iting is  to  be  excited. 

Bland  Liquids  are  milk,  raw  eggs,  some  sort  of  oil,  gruel,  etc. 

Stimulants  are  tea,  coffee,  whisky,  wine,  etc.,  or  hartshorn  and  water. 
Of  this  a  teaspoonful  in  a  teacupful  of  water  will  be  enough  for  a  dose. 
In  making  tea  or  coffee  one  must  not  wait  to  do  it  as  for  the  table,  but 
mix  hot  water  and  the  leaves  or  grounds,  squeeze  them  well,  stir 
together,  and  give  the  whole — leaves,  grounds,  everything.  At  the 
same  time  some  may  be  made  regularly,  if  there  are  conveniences  for  it. 

Alkaline  antidotes  are  hartshorn  and  water  (a  tablespoonful  in  two 
teacupfuls  of  water),  soap  and  water,  lime,  whiting,  soda,  chalk,  tooth 
powder,  plaster,  magnesia,  whitewash,  and  even  wood  ashes. 

Acid  Antidotes  are  vinegar  and  lemon  juice. 

In  giving  an  antidote  never  wait  for  it  to  dissolve.  Just  stir  it  up  in 
any  fluid  at  hand,  except  oil,  and  have  it  swallowed  immediately. 

For  Poisoning  from  Phosphorus,  as  when  children  suck  matches, 
give  a  tablespoonful  of  magnesia  and  then,  freely,  gum  arabic  water ; 
less  magnesia  if  only  a  little  phosphorus  is  taken. 

Ainmonia,  taken  raw  by  accident — give  new  milk,  olive  oil,  ice  in  bits ; 
bind  ice  on  the  throat. 

A  solution  of  common  salt  g^ven  immediately  is  a  successful  remedy 
for  strychnia  poisoning. 

Poison  Ivy. — Use  a  solution  of  chloride  of  soda  externally;  when  the 
skin  is  unbroken  it  may  be  used  clear  three  or  four  times  a  day,  or  in 
other  cases  diluted  with  from  three  to  six  parts  of  water. 

FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK. 

Crust  Coffee — Toast  bread  very  brown,  pour  on  boiling  water,  strain 
and  add  cream,  sugar  and  nutmeg,  if  desired. 

Wine  Whey — One  pint  of  boiling  milk,  two  wine-glasses  of  wine ; 
boil  a  moment,  stirring  well ;  take  out  the  curd,  sweeten  and  flavor  the 
whey. 

Acid  Drink — Take  a  handful  of  dried  currants,  pour  over  them  a 
pint  of  boiling  water,  let  them  stand  a  few  minutes  without  stirring, 
then  drain  off  the  water,  strain,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Dilute  it  for  the 
patient's  drink. 

To  Remove  Grease  from  Broth — After  pouring  the  broth  into  the 
dish,  pass  clean  white  wrapping-paper  quickly  over  the  top  of  the  broth, 
using  several  pieces,  until  the  grease  is  removed. 

Parched  Rice — Cook  in  custard  kettle  a  half-cup  parched  rice  in  one 
pint  of  boiling,  salted  water ;  when  done,  serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Egg  Gruel — Beat  the  yolk  of  an  ^gg  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,, 
beating  the  white  separately  ;  add  a  teacup  of  boiling  water  to  the  yolk, 
then  stir  in  the  white  and  add  seasoning. 


278  MEDICAL. 

Sassafras  Drink — Take  the  pith  of  sassafras  boughs,  break  in  small 
pieces,  and  let  soak  in  cold  water  till  the  water  becomes  glutinous. 
This  is  good  nourishment  for  weak  people,  and  much  relished. 

Raw  Beef — Chop  fresh,  lean  beef,  very  fine,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  put  between  thin  slices  of  Graham  or  white  buttered  bread. 

Oatmeal  Gruel — Put  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  oatmeal  into  one 
quart  of  cold  water ;  stir  it  till  it  commences  to  boil,  then  cook  one 
hour,  stirring  occasionally ;  do  not  let  it  scorch.  Season  with  salt  and 
sugar  and  spice,  if  desired. 

Milk  may  be  given  in  almost  all  cases  of  disease.  When  it  occasions 
nausea  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  Hme-water  to  a  pint  of  milk,  and  give 
in  small  quantities. 

Milk  Punch — Beat  up  an  ^gg  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar ;  add 
sufficient  milk  to  fill  a  goblet :  grate  on  top  a  little  nutmeg ;  to  this  may 
be  added,  if  a  stimulant  is  desired,  a  tablespoonful  of  St.  Croix  rum,  or 
a  teaspoonful  or  more  of  brandy.    Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Milk  and  Wine — Put  in  a  pan  over  the  fire  a  tumbler  of  milk,  and 
as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  a  glass  of  sherry  wine ;  stir  it  around  once  ; 
remove  from  the  fire  and  strain ;  sweeten  and  ice  it. 

Milk  and  Rice  Gruel — Take  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  ground 
rice ;  make  a  paste  with  cold  milk  ;  add  one  quart  of  boiling  milk  and 
boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  constantly  ;  season  with  salt,  sugar  and  nut- 
meg ;  serve  warm  with  cream. 

Sago  Milk — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  sago  soaked  in  half  a  pint  of 
cold  water  for  an  hour ;  three  cups  of  boiling  milk  ;  sweeten  and  flavor 
to  taste  with  vanilla ;  simmer  slowly  half  an  hour. 

Chicken  and  Ceylon  Moss — Cut  a  small  fowl  into  small  pieces  and 
put  over  the  fire  with  three  pints  of  cold  water,  four  ounces  of  Ceylon 
moss  (bought  at  drug  store),  and  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Boil  an  hour 
and  strain  into  cups  or  jelly  mold. 

For  Fever  Patient — Break  ice  into  very  small  pieces  and  mix  Mrith 
the  same  quantity  of  lemon  jelly,  also  cut  up  small.     It  is  refreshing. 

Beef  Sandwich — Scrape  very  fine  two  or  three  teaspoonfuls  of  fresh 
tender  uncooked  beef ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  spread  between 
thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter ;  cut  off  the  crust  and  cut  in  shapes  of 
diamonds  or  stars.  It  is  very  strengthening,  and  the  patient  need 
not  know  the  beef  is  raw. 

For  a  Weak  Baby, — One  teacup  of  oatmeal  in  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  slightly  salted.  Let  it  cook  two  hours  and  a  half,  then  strain. 
Wiien  cold,  to  one  gill  of  the  gruel  add  one  gill  of  thin  cream  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  sugar.  To  this  then  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  and 
it  is  ready  for  use.     This  can  be  digested  when  milk  and  all  else  fail. 

Beef  Sandwich — Scrape  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  from  a  broiled 
tc  'derloin  ;  season  slightly  and  spread  on  a  thin  slice  of  bread.  Fold 
the  bread ;  cut  off  the  crust  and  divide  the  slice  into  two  pieces. 


FOOD  FOR   THE  SICK.  279 

Cocoa  Shells — Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cocoa  shells  into  a  little 
cold  water ;  add  to  them  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  for  one  hour  ; 
strain,  add  a  pint  of  rich  milk ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  sweeten  to  the 
taste  and  serve.  If  liked  stronger,  add  more  shells  in  making  it.  This 
is  a  nourishing  and  palatable  drink  when  tea  and  coffee  are  not  allowed. 

Lemons — When  the  patient  has  sick  headache  take  a  tumbler  two- 
thirds  full-  of  finely  crushed  ice,  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  one  teacup- 
ful  of  white  sugar.  This  mixture,  eaten  by  degrees,  or  all  at  once,  will 
allay  the  feverish  thirst  and  quiet  the  disturbed,  qualmish  stomach,  as  it 
is  not  sweet  enough  to  be  nauseous. 

Panada— Gi'dii^d  bread  or  rolled  crackers  may  be  used.  To  one 
ounce  of  bread  add  one-half  pint  of  boiling  water ;  let  it  boil  a  few 
minutes,  then  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar  and  flavor  with  wine  and  nut- 
meg. 

Toast  Water — Brown  sHces  of  toast  without  burning,  and  pour  over 
them  enough  boiling  water  to  cover.  Cover  closely  and  let  them  steep 
until  cold.  Strain  the  water ;  put  in  a  little  lemon  juice  and  sweeten 
to  the  taste.     Serve  in  a  small  glass  with  a  piece  of  ice  in  it. 

Milk  Toast — Cut  slices  of  stale  bread  half  an  inch  thick,  toast 
quickly  and  dip  each  slice,  as  toasted,  in  boiling  water ;  butter  and  salt 
slightly  and  lay  in  a  covered  dish.  Have  ready  in  a  saucepan  enough 
boiling  milk  to  cover  all  well.  Melt  in  it  a  little  butter  and  salt  and 
pour  over  the  toasted  bread.  Cover  closely  and  let  it  stand  five  min- 
utes before  using  it. 

Iceland  Moss  Jelly — One  handful  of  moss  washed  in  several  waters 
and  soaked  an  hour ;  one  quart  of  boiling  water ;  juice  of  two  lemons  ; 
one  wine  glass  of  sherry  ;  one  quarter  teaspoonf  ul  of  cinnamon.  Soak 
the  moss  in  a  very  little  cold  water ;  stir  into  the  boiling  liquid  and 
simmer  until  dissolved.     Sweeten,  flavor  and  strain  into  molds. 

Chicken  Broth — Wash  half  the  breast  and  one  wing  of  a  tender 
chicken  ;  put  in  a  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  pints  of  water  a  table- 
spoon of  riee  or  pearl  barley  ;  let  it  simmer  slowly  and  skim  ;  season  to 
taste.  When  the  chicken  is  thoroughly  cooked,  take  it  out  and  serve 
the  broth  in  a  bowl  with  a  bit  of  dry  toast  or  crackers.  If  barley  is 
used  it  should  first  be  cooked  several  hours. 

Beef  Jelly — Take  one  pound  of  round  steak,  free  from  fat ;  cut  into 
small  pieces  and  put  into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  (or  what  is  better,  an 
earthen  jar) ;  barely  cover  the  meat  with  cold  water ;  set  the  jar  in  a 
kettle  of  water  and  let  it  boil  one  hour ;  add  to  the  juice  thus  obtained 
two  wine  glasses  of  best  sherry  wine,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  or  enough  to  set  the  jelly ;  pour  into  very 
small  cups  or  molds  and  turn  out  upon  a  saucer  when  ready  to  serve. 

Beef  Extract — Chop  a  pound  of  lean  beef  (the  round  is  the  best)  ; 
put  in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  without  water ;  place  the  bottle  in  cold 


2S0  MEDICAL. 

water  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  boil  slowly  for  two  hours ;  skim  all 
particles  of  grease  from  the  top  when  done.  It  may  be  given  cold  or 
warm.  A  pound  of  meat  will  furnish  about  three  or  four  tablespoons- 
ful  of  extract  which  will  contain  all  the  nutriment  of  the  meat. 

Beef  Tea  No.  i — Scrape  one  pound  of  lean  beef  into  fibers  on  aboard; 
place  the  scraped  meat  in  a  saucepan  and  pour  half  a  pint  of  boiling 
water  over  it ;  cover  closely  and  set  on  the  fire  for  ten  minutes ;  strain 
into  a  teacup ;  place  the  teacup  in  a  basin  of  ice  cold  water ;  remove 
all  the  fat  by  means  of  immersing  a  piece  of  blotting  paper  or  by  skim- 
ming ;  pour  into  a  warm  cup  and  serve.  This  is  a  quick  way  to  make 
beef  tea. 

Mutton  Broth — Put  two  pounds  of  mutton  and  two  quarts  of  cold 
water  to  boil ;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  rice  washed  carefully ;  let  it 
boil  till  the  meat  will  leave  the  bone,  and  the  rice  is  cooked  to  a  liquid 
mass.  Take  from  the  fire  and  season  with  a  little  salt.  Chicken  broth 
may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Uncooked  E^g — Break  an  egg  into  a  goblet  and  beat  thoroughly  ; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  after  beating  a  moment  add  a  teaspoon- 
f ul  or  two  of  brandy  or  port  wine;  beat  well  and  add  as  much  rich 
milk  (or  part  cream),  as  there  is  of  the  mixture.  Or  omit  the  brandy, 
and  use  spice  instead. 

Broiled  Beefsteak — Take  a  tender  piece  of  fresh  steak,  an  inch  or 
two  thick,  and  broil  carefully  two  or  three  minutes  over  hot  coals,  turn- 
ing often  with  a  knife  and  fork,  so  as  not  to  pierce  it.  When  done  put 
on  a  small  dish,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  baked 
potato.     Serve  hot. 

Be^f  Tea,  No.  2 — Select  the  tenderest.  juiciest  piece  of  steak  pos- 
sible ;  cut  into  pieces  half  an  inch  square ;  fill  a  glass  quart  can ;  cover 
tightly ;  set  the  can  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water  and  put  the  kettle  on  the 
stove  to  boil  until  the  meat  is  tender  ;  then  take  out  the  beef,  and  press 
from  it  all  the  juice  possible,  which  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.     Serve  with  crackers  or  not  as  you  choose,  or  the  case  requires. 

Barley  Water — To  a  tablespoonful  of  pearl  barley  washed  in  cold 
water,  add  two  or  three  lump's  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
On  these  pour  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  stand  seven  or  eight 
hours ;  strain,  never  use  the  barley  a  second  time.  Half  an  ounce  of 
isinglass  may  be  boiled  in  the  water.  Increase  the  sugar  if  desirable. 
For  fevers  or  weak  stomach  it  is  a  strengthening  drink. 

Flax-Seed  Leiiionade — Pour  a  quart  of  boiling  water  on  half  a  cupful 
of  whole  flax  seed  ;  add  one  dozen  lar^e,  plump  raisins,  the  juice  of  two 
lemons  and  a  little  licorice  root  shredded  fine  ;  sweeten  to  the  taste ;  let 
all  come  to  a  boil,  then  set  away  in  a  covered  pitcher  for  two  hours ; 
strain  it  off  as  wanted.  This  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  colds,  and  very 
palatable.  In  winter  it  can  be  taken  warm,  if  it  is  necessary  to  get  up 
a  perspiration, 


FOOD  FOR   THE  SICK.  281 

Jelly  Water — Currant,  raspberry,  wild  cherry,  blackberry  or  cran- 
berry jelly  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  then  put  into  ice-water,  forms 
a  most  refreshing  drink  to  persons  suffering  from  fever.  Save  the  sur- 
plus syrup  from  preserves  and  bottle  it  for  use,  Every  family  should 
be  provided  with  a  few  bottles  of  nice  syrup,  made  trom  the  juice  of 
any  fruit;  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice,  and  boiled  until  thick  as 
cream.     Bottle  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Beef  Soicp — Prepare  the  extract  as  indicated  above,  add  a  tumbler  of 
boiled  milk  slightly  thickened  with  flour  (see  that  there  are  no  lumps  in 
it)  ;  flavor  with  extract  of  celery. 

Chicken  Jelly — Crack  the  bones  of  a  fowl  and  put  it  into  two  quarts 
of  cold  water  ;  boil  it  slowly,  removing  the  scum  as  it  rises ;  salt  to  the 
taste,  and  when  the  chicken  is  well  done  remove  the  meat  from  the 
bones,  chop  fine  and  return  it  to  the  broth ;  boil  until  the  liquor  is 
reduced  to  a  pint ;  add  a  little  pepper  and  strain  it  into  small  cups, 
which  should  first  be  wet  with  cold  water ;  when  cold  remove  the  scum 
from  the  surface  and  put  the  jelly  on  ice ;  serve  very  cold.  The  chicken 
can  be  made  into  a  salad  or  a  little  of  the  broth  can  be  retained  with  the 
chicken,  and  some  gelatine  distributed  in  it.  This,  turned  into  a  mold 
— with  the  chicken  picked  in  flakes — will  make  a  very  nice  dish  of  jel- 
lied chicken  for  the  family  table. 

Beef  Tea  No.  j — Take  two  pounds  of  red  juicy  beef,  cut  from  the 
fleshy  part  of  the  animal.  Be  sure  it  is  not  young,  immature  meat,  and 
that  it  has  not  been  on  the  ice.  Remove  fat  and  gristle ;  wipe  clean 
but  do  not  wash ;  chop  into  pieces  the  size  of  a  hazel  nut,  and  put  into 
a  tin  bucket  of  suitable  size ;  cover  tightly  and  set  in  a  larger  vessel 
containing  as  much  cold  water  as  will  permit  your  bucket  to  sit  steady. 
Let  the  water  heat  as  quickly  as  you  please,  stirring  the  beef  occasion- 
ally. As  the  juice  appears  drain  it  off  into  a  cup  and  set  it  aside ; 
repeating  the  process  until  all  the  juice  is  extracted.  If  the  liquid  looks 
red  and  tastes  unpalatable,  remove  the  meat  from  the  bucket,  put  the 
tea  in  it  and  set  it  in  the  hot  water  again,  stirring  frequently.  As 
soon  as  the  color  changes  to  a  brownish  hue,  remove  from  the  fire,  as  it 
soon  coagulates  if  heated  too  long,  and  is  far  less  nutritious  when 
allowed  to  become  watery.  Add  no  salt  till  it  is  finished,  as  a  sick 
palate  is  very  sensitive,  and  good  meat  will  req-jire  but  little  salt.  In 
this  way  half  a  pint  of  excellent  tea  should  be  made  in  about  half  an 
hour  from  two  pounds  of  good  beef,  and  that  is  generally  sufficient  for 
a  sick  person  in  from  twelve  to  twenty-four  hours.  For  simple  debility, 
.without  disease,  the  quantity  can  be  increased. 

Nourishment — Frequently  we  find  sick  people  whose  stomachs  reject 
all  kinds  of  nourishment,  until  conditions  follow  that  are  in  many  cases 
fatal.  But  the  simple  saucer  of  parched  corn  pudding  is  never  refused. 
The  corn  is  roasted  brown,  precisely  as  we  roast  coffee,  ground  as  fine 


282  MEDICAL, 

as  meal  in  a  coffee-mill,  and  made  either  into  mush,  gruel,  or  thin  cakes, 
baked  lightly  brown  and  given  either  warm  or  cold,  clear,  and  with  what- 
ever dressing  the  stomach  will  retain.  Parched  corn  and  meal  boiled 
in  milk,  and  fed  frequently  to  children  suffering  from  summer  diarrhea, 
will  almost  always  cure,  as  it  will  dysentery  in  adults.  Or  they  can  be 
sustained  by  this  when  nothing  else  can  be  taken  :  Make  a  strong  cup 
of  coffee,  adding  boiling  milk  as  usual,  only  sweetening  rather  more ; 
take  an  ^^g,  beat  yolk  and  white  thoroughly  together ;  boil  the  coffee, 
milk  and  sugar  together,  and  pour  it  over  the  beaten  ^gg  in  the  cup  you 
are  going  to  serve  it  in.     This  is  often  used  in  hospital  service. 

Cough  Drops — Linseed,  half  cup,  olive  oil,  half  cup,  molasses  or 
honey,  half  pint,  balsam  of  fir,  half  ounce,  extract  of  licorice,  one-fourth 
ounce ;  mix,  simmer,  and  take  from  ten  to  twenty  drops,  three  times  a 
day. 

Cough  Mixture — The  whites  of  six  fresh  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  with 
half  a  teacupful  of  fine  white  sugar ;  add  juice  of  four  lemons,  three 
tablespoonfuls  pure  honey,  quarter  ounce  of  laudanum  ;  beat  all  together, 
bottle  and  cork  tightly.  Take  a  teaspoonful  when  the  coughing  comes 
on ;  shake  well  before  taking ;  crushed  sugar  rolled  fine  with  a  roller  is 
the  best  to  use. 

Cough  Syrup — Four  teaspoonfuls  of  castor  oil,  four  teaspoonfuls  of 
molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  camphor  and  one  teaspoonful  of  paregoric. 
Mix  together  and  take  a  teaspoonful  at  a  dose,  four  or  five  times  a  day. 
A  month  old  baby  can  take  a  few  drops ;  six  months',  a  half  teaspoon- 
ful, and  a  year  old,  a  spoonful.  When  a  child  has  a  cold,  and  threat- 
ened with  croup,  begin  givirg  the  syrup,  during  the  day  and  on  going  to 
bed.  If  it  coughs  during  the  night  give  more.  It  will  not  fail  to  pre- 
vent croup  and  cure  a  cough.     A  grown  person  can  take  a  larger  dose. 

Cough  Cordial — Take  three  tablespoonfuls  of  whole  flax  seed  ;  put 
in  an  earthen  vessel  or  pitcher  ;  pour  on  a  quart  of  boiling  water ;  let  it 
stand  by  the  fire  for  an  hour,  then  add  the  juice  of  four  large  lemons, 
half  teacup  pure  honey,  one  large  stick  of  licorice  broken  in  bits,  one 
stick  of  rock  candy  pounded  fine ;  stir  often,  and  when  licorice  and  candy 
dissolve,  stir.  If  too  thick  and  jelly-like,  add  more  boiling  water ;  some 
people  like  it  to  jelly.  Take  a  good  drink  of  this  whenever  you  feel 
inclined  to  cough ;  it  is  best  drank  cold,  as  it  will  not  induce  perspira- 
tion.    This  can  be  drank  by  anyone,  young  or  old. 

Blackberry  Cordial — To  two  quarts  blackberry  juice  add  half  an 
ounce  powdered  nutmegs,  half  an  ounce  cinnamon,  half  an  ounce  all- 
spice and  one-quarter  ounce  cloves  ;  boil  to  extract  the  strength ;  when 
cold  add  a  pint  of  brandy  and  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar. 

Rhubarb  Cordial— Tv^o  teaspoonfuls  pulverized  rhubarb,  two  of  soda, 
two  teacups  of  white  sugar,  one  teacup  water ;  mix  all  together  in  a  tin 
dish ;  place  over  the  fire  and  heat,  stirring  in  the  meantime,  until  the 


MUSICAL  CHIMES.  283 

sugar  is  dissolved ;  remove,  and  add  one-half  teaspoon  of  essence  of 
peppermint.  Dose,  one  teaspoonful  three  or  four  times  a  day  for  chil- 
dren ;  a  tablespoonful  for  adults.  This  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  dis- 
ordered stomach  and  bowels. 


MUSICAL  CHIMES. 

INSTRUMENTAL  MUSIC. 

There  is  one  point  in  practicing  not  sufficiently  attended  to,  but  it 
should  be  thoroughly  understood  and  put  into  practice  at  once.  It  is 
the  manner  of  touching  the  keys,  the  putting  down  and  raising  the 
fingers.  If  attention  will  be  strictly  directed  to  this  at  first,  so  that  the 
right  touch  shall  become  a  habit,  no  trouble  will  come  afterwards. 
The  importance  of  employing  a  teacher  who  is  competent  to  teach 
beginners  is  not  usually  understood.  Many  suppose  any  performer  can 
teach  the  first  term.  If  letters  are  all  that  were  to  be  taught  it  would 
not  be  so  serious  a  matter.  The  bad  habits  allowed  by  an  incompetent 
teacher  are  forever  felt  by  the  pupil  and  hours  are  spent  by  a  better 
teacher  in  trying  to  correct  them,  when  otherwise  the  time  would  have 
been  given  to  a  better  purpose. 

The  stool  should  be  placed  ^.t  such  a  height  that  the  arm  from  the 
elbow  to  the  second  joint  of  the  finger  should  be  a  perfectly  straight 
line;  the  fingers  should  be  squarely  bent  at  the  second  joint,  touching 
the  keys  with  the  very  tips  of  the  fingers.  Care  should  be  taken  that 
the  little  fingers  never  strike  on  the  sides.  The  thumb  will  rest  on  the 
side  and  end.  After  taking  this  position,  raise  the  finger  without  lifting 
the  hand  or  arm,  only  the  finger ;  strike  with  a  firm  touch  and  avoid 
having  two  fingers  of  the  same  hand  down  at  the  same  time ;  that  is, 
raise  the  finger  the  instant  the  next  one  touches  the  key.  "  Those  who 
hold  down  the  keys  too  long  accustom  themselves  to  a  Hngering,  adhe- 
sive, indistinct  and  often  discordant  manner  of  playing.  Those  who 
quit  the  keys  too  soon  fall  into  an  unconnected,  broken  style  of  playing, 
which  is  without  melody  and  which  degenerates  into  mere  knocking 
and  thumping  the  keys."  The  great  importance  of  five  finger  exercises, 
to  acquire  a  beautiful  touch  and  equality  of  strength,  is  very  essential. 

The  young  pupil  should  practice  five  finger  exercises  as  laid  down  in 
Richardson's  instruction  book,  playing  each  measure  twenty-five  times 
before  proceeding  to  the  next.  It  is  important  that  one  should  use  good 
judgment  in  guidii^g  this  practice.  If  a  pupil  is  a  beginner,  or  has  weak 
fingers,  one  may  begin  with  practicing  a  piece  ten  times,  till  the  strength 
will  allow  more.     Never,  unless  you  practice  many  hours,  practice  more 


284:  MUSICAL  CHIMES. 

than  two  lines  at  a  time.  The  five  finger  exercise  should  be  the  first 
practice,  the  scales  the  second.  Children  going  to  school  should,  if 
possible,  practice  at  least  half  an  hour  before  school  and  ought  to  come 
out  when  they  do  not  lose  a  recitation  aftd  practice  during  school  hours. 
If  a  child  comes  home  tired  from  school  they  need  the  fresh  air  and 
relaxation  from  study.  Practice  after  a  day's  work  is  never  so  benefi- 
cial as  when  carried  on  with  the  work.  Remember  that  music  is  a  part 
of  the  child's  education,  and  if  the  child  is  expected  to  become  profi- 
cient, it  is  quite  as  long  a  study  as  reading,  writing  and  arithmetic. 

Do  not  allow  a  child  or  beginner  to  play  pieces  for  the  first  two  or 
three  terms  at  least.  Wait  till  their  fingers  acquire  that  degree  of 
fluency  as  to  allow  them  to  play  quietly  and  easily.  Be  sure  that  the 
pupil  counts  aloud,  never  to  themselves,  and  be  sure  that  the  practice  is 
always  counted.  Practice  counting  with  a  clock  till  you  can  count  as 
even  as  the  clock,  although  you  may  count  faster  or  slower,  but  always 
even ;  make  the  playing  come  to  the  counting,  but  never  the  counting 
to  the  playing,  and  be  sure  that  the  pupil  plays  slow.  Almost  all  pupils 
play  too  fast.  They  blunder  constantly,  forgetting  their  time  and  the 
various  marks  of  expression  to  be  observed.  Practice  slow,  that  every 
measure  may  be  in  the  same  time  from  first  to  last ;  the  fast  will  come 
itself  after  you  are  perfect  in  all  other  things. 

Expression  in  music  is  too  much  neglected.  A  pupil  commences  a 
piece  and  thumps  through  to  the  end  in  about  the  same  strain.  Look 
over  the  piece,  observe  every  little  mark,  be  it  ever  so  small.  See  that 
you  pay  particular  attention  to  accent.  We  have  words  in  music  as 
well  as  reading.  You  would  laugh  to  hear  one  read  with  the  accent  or 
emphasis  on  the  wrong  syllable,  yet  it  is  very  often  the  case  in  music. 
Accent  means  to  strike  louder  on  one  note  than  another.  When  count- 
ing two  or  three,  in  the  measure,  accent  the  first  count  only.  When 
counting  four,  one  and  three  are  accented  ;  six,  one  and  four.  Triplets 
are  always  accented  on  the  first  note  of  each  triplet.  The  question  is 
often  asked,  when  shall  a  child  begin.  If  you  have  the  right  kind  of  a 
teacher,  as  soon  as  a  child  can  reach  six  keys  is  not  too  young.  About 
fifteen  minutes  each  day  with  the  teacher ;  little  finger  exercises  only 
are  the  best. 

It  is  a  poor  plan  for  a  child  to  take  one  lesson  a  week.  They  are  not 
advanced  enough  to  judge  for  themselves  and  so,  unconsciously,  they 
fall  into  bad  habits,  make  mistakes,  practice  them,  and  oftentimes  must 
take  the  lesson  over  again.  This  discourages  the  pupil  and  is  an  extra 
expense  to  the  parent.  Two  lessons  a  week  keep  up  the  interest,  keep 
the  child  in  steadier  practice  and  is  less  liable  to  faults. 

It  is  just  as  easy  to  inculcate  good  taste  and  refined,  exalted  ideas  of 
music  as  to  train  them  to  have  a  fondness  for  the  so-called  popular  airs 
of  the  day.     Never  allow  a  pupil  to  rush  through  a  piece  slurring  over 


PRACTICING  EXERCISES.  285 

difficulties  or  drowning  them  by  pressing  the  loud  pedal,  with  no  varia- 
tion in  tone,  and  utterly  ignoring  such  slight  hints  from  the  composer 
as  "  riteunto,"  "accelerando,"  etc.  One  thing  that  shows  a  sort  of 
carelessness  in  training,  is  the  sing-songy  style  of  counting  pupils  fall 
into  unless  you  train  them  positively,  and  count  with  them ;  not  too 
much,  though ;  accustom  them  to  counting  alone. 

PRACTICING  EXERCISES. 

.  No  matter  how  fine  a  player  is,  exercises  are  indispensable.  Each 
player  knows  what  kind  of  a  practice  he  or  she  needs  most ;  but  prac- 
tice must  be  had.  Von  Bulow  says,  "let  me  miss  my  practice  one  day 
and  I  notice  it ;  two  days,  and  my  friends  notice  it ;  three  days,  and 
the  public  notice  it."  The  fingers  are  unruly  little  things,  and  need  a 
great  deal  of  care  taken  of  them.  Never  attempt  to  play  faster  than 
you  have  perfect  control  of  the  fingers ;  if  you  do,  just  so  sure  will  you 
stiffen  them.  Never  attempt  to  play  your  "  new  piece  "  till  you  feel 
perfectly  at  home,  with  all  its  movements,  for  there  are  few  people  who 
can  play  before  strangers  with  that  degree  of  confidence  as  when  alone. 
To  feel  embarrassed  and  at  the  same  time  attempt  to  play  a  piece 
you  only  half  know  will  spoil  the  most  promising  scholar.  Never  refuse 
to  play — play,  no  matter  how  simple  your  music  seems — and  each  time 
you  will  play  with  more  confidence.  Never  permit  a  musical  item  to 
pass  your  eye  without  reading  it.  You  will  be  surprised  to  see  the 
amount  of  musical  ideas  you  will  get  by  doing  so.  Learn  each  lesson 
perfectly  and  the  next  one  is  already  half  learned. 

To  Limber  the  Fmgers — Place  the  hand  in  position  ;  have  the  fingers 
curved ;  play  on  the  ends  of  them,  then  draw  the  hand  down  so  as  to 
make  dimples  across  the  knuckles  ;  if  you  do  not  understand  lay  your 
hand  flat  down  on  a  book  or  table ;  press  down  on  the  palm  of  the  hand 
and  draw  the  fingers  up  without  lifting  them  off  the  book,  and  you  will 
get  the  idea.  Keep  the  hand  in  that  position,  then  commence  with  the 
thumb ;  stretch  it  as  far  from  the  hand  as  possible  without  moving  the 
other  fingers  ;  bring  it  back  and  strike  the  note  ;  repeat  it  several  times, 
then  hold  the  thumb  down  and  take  the  forefinger ;  keep  all  the  others 
down  ;  stick  the  finger  straight  out  and  bring  it  around  in  an  easy  curve ; 
do  all  the  same  fingers  the  same  way,  then  take  the  thumb  and  first 
alternately,  then  first  and  second,  and  so  on ;  then  take  the  thumb  and 
second  together,  first  and  third  and  second  and  fourth..  Be  sure  to 
keep  the  hand  in  position  with  the  dimples.  You  will  have  to  take  one 
hand  to  hold  the  other  when  you  first  commence,  but  keep  at  it  until 
you  can  play  them  and  hold  a  nickel  on  the  back  of  your  hand.  The 
most  doleful  one  of  all  is,  put  your  thumb  on  D,  pass  the  first  finger 
over  on  C  sharp,  draw  it  around  in  the  same  position ;  hold  it  so;  then 
take  out  the  thumb,  without  moving  the  finger  more  than  you  can  pos- 


286  MUSICAL  CHIMES. 

sibly  help  ;  put  it  back  ;  then  move  the  finger  to  D  sharp,  play  it  several 
times ;  thumb  C  sharp,  thumb  D  sharp ;  then  take  the  second  finger 
the  same  way  and  same  notes  ;  thumb  second  and  thumb  third.  Don't 
let  the  finger  straighten  out  when  you  take  the  thumb  out  and  put  it 
back ;  keep  it  curved.  Then  come  the  scales.  To  every  scale  there  is 
a  perfect  and  imperfect  cord ;  the  perfect  is  i,  3,  5,  8,  the  imperfect  is 
2,  4,  5,  7  ;  of  course  i  is  the  key  note  of  whatever  scale  you  wish  to  play ; 
take  C,  I  is  C,  E  is  3,  G  is  5,  and  C  is  8,  that  is  the  perfect  cord ;  2  is  D, 
4  is  F,  5  is  G,  and  7  is  B,  that  is  the  imperfect  cord.  Play  the  cords  in 
running  order,  take  the  perfect  C  E  G  C,  then  E  G  C  E,  then  G  C  E  G, 
then  C  E  G  C,  and  run  them  up  two  or  three  octaves  back,  then  the 
imperfect  the  same  way.  Play  the  scale  twice  and  each  cord  twice,  and 
it  makes  a  very  pleasant  practice. 

THE  CARE  OF  [NSTRUMENTS. 

Keep  them  clean  and  do  not  leave  the  cover  up  except  while  the  instru- 
ment is  in  use,  as  small  things  often  drop  into  them,  causing  great 
inconvenience,  and  often  ruining  a  piano.  Where  the  keys  are  thought 
to  be  out  of  order  it  is  well  to  investigate,  especially  if  there  are  children 
in  the  house,  for  even  so  small  a  thmg  as  a  button  may  make  a  deal  of 
mischief.  If  the  keys  at  any  time  become  discolored  remove  the  front 
door,  fall,  and  slip  of  wood  just  over  them ;  then  lift  each  key  up  sepa- 
rately from  the  front  (do  not  take  them  out),  and  with  a  white  cloth, 
slightly  dampened  with  a  little  clean  cold  water,  rub  each  one  separately 
(white  keys  only),  and  dry  off  with  a  cloth  slightly  warm.  Should  they 
be  sticky  through  children  practicing  after  handling  sweetmeats,  etc., 
first  damp  the  cloth  with  a  little  spirits  of  wine  or  gin.  On  no  account 
use  soap  or  washing  powder.  If  the  keys  be  very  yellow,  the  only  thing 
to  be  done,  if  too  unsightly,  is  to  have  them  properly  whitened  by  a 
practical  man.  If  only  slightly  yellow,  keep  clean  and  exposed  well  to 
the  light,  and  they  will  gradually  improve. 

REMARKS  ABOUT  VOCALISM. 

It  should  be  the  aim  of  every  vocalist  to  produce  clear  tones  and  to 
sing  plainly.  The  act  of  singing,  as  well  as  speaking,  is  simply  the  act 
of  arresting  the  breath.  We  do  not  breathe  while  singing.  The  air  is 
usually  admitted  and  expelled  spasmodically,  playing  upon  the  vocal 
chords  as  the  wind  plays  on  an  aeolian  harp. 

In  order  to  sing  well  we  must  first  understand  the  art  of  breathing. 
Can  you  run  a  long  distance  and  breathe  as  calmly  as  when  you  started  } 
Can  you  climb  a  steep  hill  or  mountain  and  arrive  at  its  summit  breath- 
ing no  harder  than  when  at  its  foot }  Can  you  sing  a  long  strain  and 
not  "  gasp  "  for  air  ?  Try  it  ;  you  will  find  your  tones  decreasing  in 
volume  and  sweetness,  until,  with  a  gulp,  you  give  it  up  and  take  in 


REMARKS  ABOUT  VOCALISM.  287 

more  air,  your  whole  body  trembling,  ears  ringing  and  throat  burning 
with  the  exertion. 

In  an  organ  the  supply  of  air  is  produced  and  controlled  by  the  bel- 
lows being  forced  into  an  air  chamber,  and  there  remaining  as  "  com- 
pressed air"  until  admitted  into  the  pipe  by  the  opening  of  a  valve,  then 
rushing  out  and  through  the  pipe,  it  produces  the  well-known  sound. 
The  singer  draws  in  the  air  and  stores  in  the  lungs,  and  the  very  first 
thing  to  learn  is  to  keep  the  supply  of  air  always  on  hand.  Never  get 
out  of  air.     Regulate  the  supply  and  get  this  regulation  to  a  nicety. 

To  Practice  the  Breathing  Exercise :  Let  the  singer  stand  before 
a  mirror  and  assume  the  following  position,  watching  the  reflection  in 
the  glass,  which  will  tell  when  you  are  doing  wrong  :  Stand  erect  in  an 
easy  attitude,  with  the  head  firmly  but  easily  poised  and  shoulders 
thrown  back.  Open  the  mouth  as  wide  as  possible  without  displacing 
the  features  or  muscles,  especially  the  muscles  at  the  corners  of  the 
mouth.  Breathe  naturally — that  is,  slowly  and  regularly.  Now  arrest 
the  breath.  Without  inhaling  a  new  supply  of  air,  gradually  expel  from 
the  lungs  all  now  in  them,  if  possible. 

Remember,  this  must  be  accomplished  gradually.  Throw  out  as 
much  air  as  you  can.  I  presume  it  will  not  be  possible  for  you  to  expel 
it  all,  because  some — a  very  moderate  quantity,  however — is  bound  to 
be  retained  by  the  lungs.  While  you  are  doing  this  there  should  be  a 
feeling  of  effort  in  the  lower  part  of  the  chest  and  abdomen,  a  "  sink- 
ing "  sensation  or  compression  centering  in  the  region  commonly  called 
the  "  pit  of  the  stomach."  This  location  may  be  determined  in  another 
way,  and  it  is,  in  some  respects  quite  superior  as  a  purely  locative  exer- 
cise. Take  the  nose  violently  with  handkerchief  in  hand,  as  if  about  to 
blow  it,  or  as  if  to  sneeze.  Close  the  mouth,  stop  the  nostrils  by  the  aid  of 
the  handkerchief,  and  go  through  the  evolutions  of  sneezing.  This  pro- 
cess will  produce  a  peculiar  feeling  in  the  abdomen,  and  will  probably 
give  the  operator  a  better  idea  of  the  location  of  the  controlling  power, 
the  abdominal  muscles,  than  the  first  named. 

What  way  you  will,  the  first  must  finally  be  used,  and  having  expelled 
the  air,  carefully  do  as  directed.  Hold  the  organs  in  place  (with  the  air 
expelled)  a  brief  time  and  gradually  relax  the  parts  which  have  been 
exerted.  The  holding  for  brief  time  is  at  first  a  very  difficult  matter 
and  will  often  call  for  a  most  determined  exercise  of  the  will — but  it 
must  be  done  !  In  singing  you  will  be  called  upon  to  do  the  very  same 
thing,  if  you  sing  properly,  and  you  cannot  sing  properly  unless  you 
breathe  correctly. 

Gradually  relax  the  exerted  parts  without  disturbing  the  upper  chest 
or  shoulders.  When  you  are  doing  this  part  of  the  exercise,  look  in  the 
glass  to  see  if  your  shoulders  move.  They  must  not  be  disturbed.  This 
relaxation  will,  without  special  effort  on  the  part  of  the  pupil,  introduce 
some  fresh  air  into  the  lungs. 


288  MUSICAL  CHIMES, 

By  another  act,  repeat  the  exercise  and  expel  the  air.  Again  grad- 
ually relax  the  parts  and  so  keep  on  alternately  compressing  and  relax- 
ing the  abdominal  parts  until  you  have  absolute  Control  of  them. 
Naturally  the  muscles  of  the  chest  and  those  of  the  abdomen  work 
directly  opposed  to  each  other,  but  they  may  be  controlled  so  as  to 
exactly  balance  each  other,  and  it  is  this  lesson  you  have  to  learn. 

The  air  (or  breath)  in  these  exercises  should  be  exhaled  consciously 
and  inhaled  unconsciously.  That  is,  you  must  be  conscious  of  the 
relaxation  of  the  parts  you  have  been  exerting;  the  air  enters  and  leaves 
the  lungs  without  any  special  thought  being  given  to  that  particular 
matter.     Meantime  the  shoulders  must  be  undisturbed. 

The  upper  part  of  the  chest  must  be  free  from  exertion.  In  expand- 
ing the  chest  in  full  inhalation,  you  must  be  sure  that  neither  chest  nor 
abdomen  is  drawn  upward.  If  this  is  done  the  breath  cannot  be  prop- 
erly controlled  by  the  only  parts  that  should  control  it,  viz.,  the  lower 
part  of  the  body. 

The  exercise  here  given  is  designed  to  give  pupils  control  of  the 
proper  organs  in  managing  the  breath  in  singing  and  also  to  strengthen 
those  very  organs.  Practice  faithfully  and  you  will  be  ready  then  to 
produce  tones ;  but  learning  to  tjreathe  is  the  foundation  of  all  good 
singing. 

STRENGTHENING  THE  VOICE. 

Practice  two  or  three  times  a  day,  but  at  first  no  longer  than  ten  min- 
utes at  a  time,  and  let  one  of  these  times  be  before  breakfast;  exercise 
the  extremity  of  the  voice,  but  do  not  dwell  upon  those  notes  you  touch 
with  difficulty;  open  the  mouth  at  all  times,  in  the  higher  notes,  espe- 
cially ;  take  nothing  to  clear  the  voice  but  a  glass  of  cold  water,  and 
always  avoid  pastry,  rich  cream,  and  coffee  and  cake  when  you  intend 
to  sing. 

For  putting  the  voice  in  good  order  for  singing  or  speaking,  the  fol- 
lowing recipes  have  been  given  :  A  teaspoonful  of  compound  tincture 
of  cinnamon  beaten  up  with  a  raw  Qgg.  A  raw  egg  beaten  up  with  a 
large  cup  of  black  tea  and  good  milk  or  cream.  For  troublesome 
hoarseness  chew  a  piece  of  horseradish. 

For  hoarseness  arising  from  over  exertion  of  the  voice,  dissolve  in  the 
mouth  a  piece  of  gum  catechu  about  the  size  of  a  pea. 

To  preserve  the  voice  in  good  order,  practice  daily  without  fatiguing 
the  voice.  Over  exertion  and  want  of  practice  are  the  chief  causes  of 
disorder  in  the  voice.  Rest  cures  the  results  of  the  former,  and  prac- 
tice those  of  the  latter. 

THE  CHILDREN'S  CONCERT. 
Haydn  has  written  a  pretty  symphony,  especially  for  children's  con- 
certs.    It  consists  of  an  allegro,  a  minuetto  and  trio,  and  a  finale.     The 


THE  CHILDREN'S  CONCERT.  289 

composition  is  prefaced  by  a  descriptive  prologue,  at  the  end  of  which 
the  full  orchestra  falls  in  as  though  trying  to  drown  the  voice  of  the 
speakers.  This  orchestra  consists  of  eight  toy  instruments,  made  in 
Germany.  They  are  the  cuckoo,  night  owl,  rattle,  quail,  trumpet,  drum 
and  the  cimblestar;  besides,  an  accompaniment  is  written  for  the  bass 
viol  and  two  violins  or  the  piano ;  in  buying,  state  which  you  wish. 

You  will  require  eight  bright  children  who  will  not  laugh  during  the 
performance,  but  will  be  earnest  and  attentive  to  every  movement  of 
the  leader,  iii  the  choice  of  whom  be  especially  particular.  It  is  well  to 
have  each  child  not  only  perfect  in  his  own  part,  but  familiar  with  the 
entire  piece.  Drill  them  thoroughly  before  the  public  exhibition,  and 
you  will  have  a  concert  that  both  old  and  young  will  enjoy.  If  desired, 
the  children  may  wear  fancy  costumes : 

Prologue: 

Near  Salzburg,  once,  good  Father  Haydn 

Some  leisure  spent  at  Berchtolds-gaden 

(A  rustic  hamlet  cheer'd  by  mountain  rills 

Perch'd  like  a  birdling's  home  among  the  hills) 

Where,  with  much  thrift,  the  villager  employs 

His  gentle  time  and  skill  in  making  toys — 

As  drums  and  trumpets,  such  as  swell  the  din 

Of  mimic  battle  fought  with  swords  of  tin — 

And  tiny  lutes,  whose  notes  f u  1  oft  inspire 

In  after  years,  to  string  the  charmed  lyre^ 

No  trifler's  art.     (The  maxim  here  unfurl'd 

Is,  please  the  child  and  you  will  please  the  world.) 

Once  as  he  lingered  in  the  village  street 
To  sport  with  children  he  had  chanced  to  meet 
(For  in  his  nature  he  was  pure  and  mild. 
Like  all  the  truly  great,  himself  a  child), 
Good  Father  Haydn  to  himself  thus  spoke  : 
"  Oft  has  your  ardor  for  the  grand  awoke 
Such  strains  as  might  a  worldly  mind  elate, 
And  please  the  learn'd  and  men  of  high  e>tate; 
Now  'wake  a  grander  symphony,  to  please 
And  move  the  hearts  of  such  dear  ones  as  these^ 
And  with  such  instruments  their  hearts  to  move 
As  in  their  childish  habits  they  approve," 

The  morning  brought  the  "  Children's  Symphony  ** 

Eight  tiny  trinkets  chiming  in  their  glee, 

Led  by  the  abler,  as  you  see  at  school 

The  master  foremost  with  his  rod  and  rule; 

The  rattle,  whisile  and  the  cymbelstern    • 

Rattled  and  piped  and  chatter  -d  in  their  turn  ; 

The  cuckoo,  quail  and  night  owl  could  be  heard 

Whooping  their  best  to  be  the  better  bird  ; 

And  drum  and  trumpet,  with  much  clamor  blest, 

Were  not  a  whit  more  bashful  than  the  rest. 

19 


290  OSTRICH  FEA  THERS. 

First  an  allegro,  brisk  as  song  of  bird. 

In  which  a  cuckoo's  cheering  notes  are  heard ; 

And  then  a  trio  and  a  minuet 

Their  graceful  tones  like  sparkling  jewels  set  | 

And  then  a  presto  comes  to  close  it  all, 

Which  cannot  fail  to  please  both  great  and  small. 

Although  upon  such  playthings,  still  the  part 

To  be  performed  will  be  no  less  an  art. 

And  should  some  small  frightened  trumpet  shriek, 

Or  bashful  whistle  lose  its  voice  and  squeak, 

Or  some  presumptuous  little  would-be  drum 

Should  be  puffed  up,  and  then  coUaps'd  and  dumb; 

Don't  let  such  little  things  excite  your  wonder, 

You  know,  dear  friends,  great  artists  sometimes  blunder. 


OSTRICH  FEATHERS. 

CURLING,  CLEANING  AND  DYEING. 

First,  if  the  feather  has  only  been  exposed  to  the  damp  air — not  actu- 
ally wet — you  will  only  require  a  silver  butter-knife  to  curl  it  with.  But 
if  it  has  been  wet  remove  it  from  the  bonnet  and  hold  it  over  a  warm 
stove,  right  side  down,  gently  waving  it.  Soon  the  filaments  will  expand 
and  curl  back  a  little.  Now  draw  the  knife-blade  gently  along  the 
under  side  of  each  filament,  commencing  at  the  point  of  the  feather, 
using  care,  as  too  sharp  a  stroke  will  cut  the  filament,  and  too  swift  a 
motion  will  curl  too  tightly.  When  the  feather  has  been  curled,  per- 
haps the  stem  will  need  some  bending.  Use  a  stout  case-knife  for 
this,  drawing  along  the  under  side  of  the  rib.  If  it  is  a  long  plume, 
hold  it  around  a  warm  stove-pipe,  and  perhaps  a  warm  lamp  chimney 
will  be  what  is  wanted  for  the  very  end.  If  so  unfortunate  as  to  have 
broken  the  stem,  and  it  is  not  altogether  separated,  get  some  fine 
bonnet  wire  and  attach  along  the  under  side  of  the  stem  with  long  but- 
ton-hole stitches,  using  silk  to  match  the  feathers. 

To  wash  white  feathers,  use  tepid  water  and  white  soap,  with  a  little 
bluing  in  the  water.  Make  a  good  lather  in  a  dish  which  is  quite  long 
enough  to  admit  of  laying  the  feather  straight  out.  After  laying  the 
feather  to  soak  a  few  moments,  gently  draw  it  through  the  hand  until 
it  is  quite  clean.  Now  rinse  in  clear  water,  to  which,  besides  the 
bluing,  add  a  few  drops  of  spirits  of  salt  (to  be  had  at  any  chemist's). 
When  it  is  rinsed  enough,  draw  the  feather  through  the  hand  to  get 
rid  of  as  much  water  as  possible.  Shake,  taking  care  not  to  break 
the  stem,  and  laying  on  a  table  or  board,  brush  it  each  side  of  the 
rib  with  a  clean  brush.     When  dry,  hold  it  over  the  stove  and  curl. 


CURLING,  CLEAxWING  AND  DYEING.  291 

For  cream-color,  omit  the  blue  and  add  coffee  in  the  rinse  water. 
First  color  the  white  feather  with  coffee,  then  take  an  old  red  rose- 
leaf  and  moisten  it,  and  this  will  tint  the  edges  of  the  feather  wtry 
prettily. 

By  the  use  of  prepared  dyes  the  dirtiness  and  difficulty  of  home  dye- 
ing are  dispensed  with.  The  work  may  be  done  with  a  certainty  of 
success,  and  without  as  much  as  soiling  the  fingers.  These  prepared 
dyes  give  a  considerable  variety  of  color,  most  of  them  of  great  delicacy 
and  brilliancy.  The  different  colors  are  magenta,  mauve,  violet,  puce, 
purple,  canary,  cerise,  scarlet,  orange,  blue,  pink,  green,  crimson,  brown, 
black,  lavender,  slate  and  gray,  and  different  shades  of  these  colors  may 
be  formed  by  using  a  greater  or  lesser  proportion  of  water.  The  method 
of  using  the  dyes  is  as  follows  : 

For  ordinary  small  articles,  such  as  ribbons,  feathers,  etc.,  into  an 
earthen  basin  pour  four  or  eight  quarts  of  boiling  water,  into  this  throw 
the  articles  to  soak  for  a  minute  or  two,  therf  lift  them  out  with  a  piece 
of  clean  stick,  and  pour  in  a  little  of  the  dye.  The  quantity  of  dye  must 
depend  upon  the  shade  required.  The  novice  will  do  well  rather  to  put 
too  little  than  too  much,  as  more  can  be  added  afterward,  if  needed. 
The  articles  must  never  be  allowed  to  remain  in  the  basin  while  the 
fluid  is  poured  in.  As  soon  as  the  dye  is  mixed  with  the  water,  the 
goods  must  be  put  in,  and  stirred  briskly  with  a  piece  of  stick  in  each 
hand,  that  the  color  may  be  equally  distributed  ;  for  most  goods,  from 
five  to  fifteen  minutes'  immersion  will  be  sufficient ;  if  a  deep  shade  is 
required,  or  if  it  be  desired  to  utilize  the  whole  of  the  coloring  matter, 
ihey  may  be  allowed  to  remain  longer. 

Aniline,  which  comes  in  five-cent  packages,  put  up  for  coloring  Easter 
eggs,  also  dyes  feathers  beautifully.  They  come  in  six  colors.  By 
blending  them  one  can  make  nearly  all  the  fashionable  colors.  The 
tints  can  be  regulated  by  the  amount  of  water  used  and  the  length  of 
time  the  feather  is  left  in  the  bath,  which  should  be  hot.  Gray  feathers 
with  white  dashes  can  be  made  of  old  white  plumes  by  first  covering 
the  parts  to  be  left  white  with  thick  paper,  and  then  spattering  either 
with  India  ink  or  brown  aniline.  Feathers  for  evening  bonnets  are  beau- 
tiful with  Roman  pearls  attached  to  the  ends  of  ever)^  third  or  fourth 
filament  near  the  point.  Feathers  that  have  been  quite  broken  off  can 
be  made  pretty  by  adding  a  sort  of  tassel  made  of  the  chenille  now 
used  in  fringe.  The  fluffy  feathers  of  a  goose  cut  in  tiny  bits  and 
gummed  on  ostrich  tips  are  pretty. 


292  PAINTING. 


OYSTEH  CANS. 

HOW  THEY  MAY  BE  MADE  USEFUL. 

Open  them  at  the  top,  paint  them,  and  they  are  very  convenient  for 
house  plants,  as  they  occupy  but  a  small  space.  Open  them  on  the 
side,  hammer  the  edges  down  neatly  and  they  are  nice  dishes  to  bake 
small  loaves  of  cake  or  bread  in.  Farmers  will  find  them  the  best  kind 
of  dishes  to  give  chickens  drink  from.  Take  one,  open  on  the  side, 
with  a  hammer  and  nail  perforate  the  other  side,  and  you  will  have  an 
excellent  grater  to  use  for  that  tear-producing  condiment,  horse-radish. 
Then  again,  take  one  opened  at  the  end,  make  a  few  holes  in  it,  sink  it 
near  any  choice  plant  or  in  the  center  of  a  group  of  flowers  in  the  yard, 
and  you  will  find  it  a  fine  thing  when  a  drouth  comes ;  for  it  may  be 
filled  with  water,  which  will  leak  out,  moistening  the  earth  about  the 
roots  of  the  plants,  and  doing  more  good  than  when  thrown  upon  the 
surface.  x 


PAINTINQ. 


HINTS  TO  AMATEUR    ARTISTS. 


Any  one  wishing  to  sketch  from  nature  will  find  it  improving  to  draw 
something  every  day,  beginning  with  the  simplest  design,  as  a  leaf,  a 
flower,  etc.  In  learning  to  draw  landscapes,  begin  by  sketching  a  limb, 
then  a  tree,  or  anything  that  strikes  the  fancy.  A  very  good  plan  is  to 
make  a  frame  of  wood  or  pasteboard,  with  thread  running  from  top  to 
bottom,  and  from  side  to  side,  dividing  it  into  equal  spaces ;  have  lines 
on  your  paper  or  canvas  to  correspond  with  these  threads,  then  you 
can  easily  see  where  to  make  the  outlines  of  the  principal  objects. 

To  those  who  paint  in  water  colors,  painting  on  unpolished  white 
wood  is  very  easy.  The  wood  used  is  chestnut,  but  it  is  very  soft,  and 
great  care  must  be  taken  in  tracing  a  design  not  to  lean  too  heavily  on 
the  pencil.  This  white  wood  when  decorated  is  used  for  many  things 
— covers  for  blotting  pads,  stationery  cases  and  paper  knives.  When 
choosing  the  wood,  procure  it  as  white  as  possible  and  see  that  the 
grain  of  it  runs  lengthwise  and  straight. 

Floral  designs  with  an  illuminated  border,  which  should  correspond 
throughout  the  set,  look  very  pretty.  Butterflies  and  birds,  from  their 
gay  colors,  are  also  appropriate,  and  small  landscapes  or  sea  views  look 
excessively  well  on  a  blotting  pad.     For  the  drawing-room,  such  articles 


FANCY  IVOODS  USED.  293 

as  book  slides,  card  baskets  and  stereoscopic  slide  boxes  may  be  chosen. 
For  the  toilet  table  there  are  glove,  handkerchief,  jewel  and  work  boxes, 
suitably  lined  with  velvet  and  silk.  For  glove  boxes,  an  ornamental 
glove  is  a  pretty  design;  for  handkerchief  boxes,  baskets  of  frait  or 
flowers  look  very  well.  Wide  borders  of  one  color,  such  as  dark  or 
light  blue,  crimson,  scarlet,  black  or  brown,  set  off  the  painting  in  the 
center.  Tea  caddies  in  white  wood  look  exceedingly  handsome  when 
covered  with  Chinese  figures,  which  ought  to  be  painted  in  the  brightest 
colors. 

When  the  design  is  drawn,  before  commencing  the  painting,  clean 
the  wood  thoroughly  with  bread  crumbs ;  and  while  coloring,  place  a 
piece  of  paper  beneath  the  hand  so  that  it  shall  not  soil  the  wood.  Be 
quite  sure  the  wood  is  perfectly  clean  when  ready  for  polishing,  other- 
wise the  marks  will  show  clearly,  and  cannot  be  erased. 

The  colors  should  be  mixed  with  Chinese  white,  which  renders  them 
opaque  and  also  acts  as  a  preventive  against  their  sinking  into  the  wood. 
In  painting,  reverse  the  order  which  is  set  down  for  transparent  colors, 
and  begin  with  dark  shades.  Work  up  the  different  lights  and  finally 
put  in  the  high  lights.  Do  not  be  afraid  to  apply  dark  colors  and  shades  ; 
they  become  bright  when  the  painting  is  varnished,  and  colors  such  as 
Vandyke  brown  and  crimson  lake  warm  up  and  heighten  the  brilliancy  of 
the  picture.  The  colors  can  be  obtained  in  either  small  tubes  or  cakes. 
The  ordinary  brushes  used  in  water-color  painting  are  the  best  to 
employ,  although  some  artists  prefer  to  paint  in  body  color  with 
brushes  used  in  oil  colors. 

When  painted,  the  wood  should  be  polished  in  the  following  manner : 
First,  pass  over  the  entire  wood  a  coating  of  patent  white  size,  then 
wait  until  it  has  become  thoroughly  dry,  and  repeat  the  process  until 
perfectly  smooth. 

FANCY  WOODS  USED. 

Many  of  the  pretty  woods  made  into  book  racks  and  boxes  are 
colored  by  artificial  means.  The  Killarney  woods  are  very  pretty  for 
these  souvenirs,  and  are  of  three  different  hues.  Raw  sienna,  laid  on 
apple  wood  in  thin  washes,  will  give  the  color  of  the  lightest  Killarney 
wood.  Raw  sienna  for  the  first  wash,  burnt  sienna  for  the  second  and 
successive  washes,  will  supply  the  hue  of  the  second  Killarney  wood. 
Vandyke  brown  and  India  ink  mixed  together  and  laid  on  as  a  first 
wash;  the  black  of  the  India  ink  settles  in  the  grain  of  the  wood 
and  adds  to  the  richness  of  the  whole  effect ;  only  when  this  wash  of 
color  is  perfectly  dry,  lay  on  successive  but  thin  washes  of  burnt  sienna ; 
this  will  give  the  effect  of  the  darkest  Killarney  wood.  On  this  are 
painted  various  designs,  as  castle  scenes,  landscapes,  and  the  flowers 
that  are  native  to  Ireland. 

For  painting  in  oil  on  white  holly  wood,  purchase  a  few  feet  of  holly 


294  PAINTING. 

wood  one-eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness  ;  also  five  tubes  of  oil  paints  as 
follows  :  Vandyke  brown,  flake  white,  chrome  yellow,  crimson  lake,  per- 
manent blue  ;  also  one  fine  oil  paint  brush.  Saw  out  of  the  holly  wood 
a  frame  about  an  inch  and  a  half  wide  all  around,  sawing  out  an  open- 
ing large  enough  for  a  photograph,  and  round  all  the  corners.  Sand- 
paper the  wood  thoroughly  after  the  frame  is  finished.  Now  commence 
to  trace  a  vine  around  the  frame,  then  trace  leaves  and  flowers,  using  a 
sharp-pointed  pencil  for  tracing.  Perhaps  you  have  a  pattern  of  a  vine 
in  one  of  your  magazines,  if  so  you  can  trace  it  off  on  white  tissue  paper 
and  transfer  to  the  wood  by  using  tracing  paper.  Mix  a  little  chrome 
yellow  and  Prussian  blue  together,  and,  after  adding  a  very  little  tur- 
pentine, proceed  to  paint  all  the  leaves.  Mix  a  little  brown  with  green, 
making  an  olive  green,  and  with  it  shade  the  leaves  after  cleansing  the 
brush  thoroughly  with  turpentine  ;  trace  the  leaves  with  light  lines  of 
brown,  also  the  branches  of  the  vine.  After  the  leaves  are  finished 
mix  a  little  permanent  blue  and  flake  white  and  paint  the  flowers  and 
buds.  Use  a  little  flake  white  to  shade  the  flowers  after  they  are  painted 
blue.  Vine  the  whole  vine  with  Vandyke  brown.  Should  you  prefer, 
use  crimson  lake  instead  of  blue  for  flowers ;  always  be  sure  and  wash 
the  brush  well  in  turpentine  before  using  for  another  color. 

A  number  of  fancy  articles  can  be  made  from  white  holly  wood  and 
painted.  Small  clusters  of  flowers  and  landscapes  can  be  painted  on 
panels.  One  of  the  designs  which  always  please  is  a  trunk  of  a  tree 
and  branches ;  on  one  of  the  branches  is  a  mother  owl  with  her  wings 
spread  over  four  baby  owls,  two  on  each  side ;  in  her  mouth  is  a  field 
mouse,  and  underneath  is  painted,  "  Supper  is  ready."  This,  painted 
with  Vandyke  brown  and  flake  white,  is  veiy  artistic. 

SUBJECTS  AND   COLORS. 

Apple  blossoms  :  First  squeeze  out  of  your  tuber  on  the  palette  or 
plate  considerable  flake  white  and  a  very  little  carmine  for  the  blossoms, 
then  some  terraviste,  chrome  yellow,  burnt  sienna  and  Prussian  blue  for 
the  green  leaves.  Begin  by  painting  the  blossoms  white,  wetting  the 
brush  first  in  some  turpentine,  then  use  the  carmine  mixed  with  white 
until  it  is  a  pretty  apple  blossom  tint.  To  touch  up  the  petals  for  the 
calyx  of  the  flowers,  use  terra  vert,  with  a  little  chrome  yellow  and  orange 
chrome  for  the  little  stamens  ;  use  fine  brushes  for  the  centers,  and  keep 
them  clean  with  turpentine.  When  you  commence  the  leaves,  use  the 
paint  thin  and  work  with  downward  slanting  strokes  towards  the  cen- 
ters ;  for  the  stalks  or  twigs  use  Vandyke  brown  mixed  with  white,  and 
burnt  sienna  to  show  the  roughness  and  knots. 

In  copying  from  nature  or  a  card  it  is  better  to  sketch  the  outline  of 
the  design,  unless  you  are  experienced  and  have  a  very  correct  eye.  In 
painting  flowers  on  silk  or  satin,  it  is  better  to  finish  the  flowers  and 
leaves  as  you  go  along. 


OIV  CHINA  AND  PORCELAIN.  295 

To  paint  stones  for  paper  weights  ;  A  good  way  is  to  blacken  the  sur- 
face of  the  stone,  and  when  dry  to  paint  a  subject  requiring  entirely 
white  colors,  such  as  the  stephanotis,  etc.  Perhaps  the  most  suitable 
subjects  are  landscapes  for  the  large  pebbles ;  crests,  coats  of  arms, 
monograms  and  mottoes  for  the  medium  size  ;  and  for  the  smallest 
stones,  birds'  nests,  insects  and  flowers,  and  especially  butterflies. 

In  mineral  painting  the  colors  to  be  used  in  representing  grapes  are 
the  following  :  For  red  grapes,  first  brush  over  very  lightly  with  carmine 
No.  2  (Lacroix),  then  put  in  the  seeds  and  deepest  parts  with  "  crimson 
purple,"  leaving  the  first  wash  of  carmine  to  represent  the  "bloom." 
If  the  grapes  are  of  a  blue  or  purplish  tone  wash  over  the  whole  surface 
first  thinly  with  "light  blue,"  then  wash  lightly  again  with  "  deep  blue," 
leaving  out  the  place  for  the  "bloom  "  in  the  light  blue,  and  deepening 
the  outer  parts  with  "  violet  of  gold  "  and  "  crimson  purple."  This,  of 
course,  requires  discretion  in  the  disposition  of  color  and  depth  of  tones 
used — endeavor  always  to  imitate  nature. 

ON  CHINA  AND  PORCELAIN. 

The  French  porcelain  is  best  for  painting.  The  camel's  hair  brushes 
should  be  of  medium  size  with  delicate  points.  The  colors  manufac- 
tured by  M.  Lacroix,  put  up  in  small  tubes,  are  best  for  china  painting. 

Supposing  you  are  about  to  paint  a  plate :  Rub  the  surface  over  with 
spirits  of  turpentine,  and  commence  your  design  after  it  has  dried  a  few 
moments.  Use  oil  of  lavender  as  a  medium.  Have  a  small  dish  on 
the  table,  containing  turpentine  to  clean  the  brushes  from  time  to.time ; 
and  be  very  careful  while  painting  not  to  let  a  drop  of  the  turpentine  fall 
on  the  plate,  for  it  will  immediately  spoil  the  whole  painting.  Particles 
of  dust  frequently  get  on  the  painting,  which  can  be  removed  by  touch- 
ing lightly  with  the  point  of  a  darning-needle.  The  design  (if  flowers), 
painted  on  one  side  of  the  plate  and  straying  over  the  border,  is  much 
more  effective  than  if  placed  in  the  center. 

Grasses  are  easily  painted  and  are  a  good  accompaniment  to  the 
flowers.  Copies  from  Prang's  advertising  cards  are  excellent  for  begin- 
ners. For  flowers,  the  strokes  of  the  brush  should  proceed  from  the 
center ;  for  leaves,  from  the  veins  to  the  edges. 

For  white  flowers,  the  china  plate  will  answer,  and  the  shadows  are 
made  of  blue  and  black  mixed ;  blue  flowers  from  any  of  the  blues, 
shaded  with  gris  noir  (black  gray)  ;  the  morning  glory  may  be  shaded 
with  a  little  carmine;  pink  flowers  are  painted  wita  carmine,  shaded 
with  gray ;  carmine  mixed  with  vert  pomme  (apple  green) ;  yellow  cen- 
ters with  mixing  yellow  (jaune  a  meler)  ;  pansies  with  poupre  riche 
(deep  purple) ;  or  mix  dark  blue  and  carmine  together  to  make  a  pur- 
ple.    For  grasses,  use  grass  green  and  shade  with  apple  green. 

Never  lay  on  one  color  over  another,  as  in  oil  painting,  but  wait  until 


296  PAINJING. 

each  color  dries,  for  a  fresh  color  applied  over  one  not  dry  is  very  apt  to 
wash  it  out  entirely ;  for  this  reason  it  is  well  to  have  more  than  one 
piece  of  china  commenced.  Violet  de  fer  (iron  violet)  is  a  very  desira- 
ble color,  and  must  be  used  sparingly,  as  it  fires  brightly ;  if  any  color 
is  placed  over  that  in  fixing,  the  other  color  will  be  faint  or  gone  entirely^ 
while  the  violet  of  iron  will  be  clear  and  bright. 

For  the  tmted  borders  mix  balsam  of  copaiba  with  the  color  desired ; 
mix  enough  to  be  used  at  once ;  use  a  broad,  flat  brush,  and  rapidly 
paint  on  the  china ;  let  it  rest  a  moment  until  the  color  begins  to  set,  ' 
then,  with  the  blending  brush,  just  touch  it  lightly  until  it  presents  ar. 
even  surface;  instead  of  a  blending  brush  a  ball  of  cotton-batting  tied 
in  a  piece  of  soft  silk  may  be  used.  The  color  which  may  have  gone 
over  the  edge  may  be  wiped  off  as  soon  as  the  blending  is  finished ;  on 
the  upper  and  lower  edges  of  the  rim  of  the  plate,  where  it  is  desirable 
to  have  gilt  bands,  the  tint  may  be  evenly  removed  as  follows  :  With  a 
clean  piece  of  cloth  on  the  top  of  the  thumb,  between  the  nail  and  the 
flesh,  go  round  the  edge ;  the  hard  pressure  of  the  nail  will  remove  the 
paint  evenly.  Let  the  plate,  during  the  banding  process,  rest  on  the 
tips  of  the  fingers  of  the  left  hand. 

In  tinting  cups,  hold  them  by  the  handle  and  apply  the  paint  from 
the  lower  part  of  the  cup  upwards.  A  vase  :  begin  at  the  top,  pass  the 
brush  around  with  short  strokes,  and  be  careful  it  does  not  run.  It  is 
a  good  plan  after  painting  a  plate  to  turn  it  upside  down ;  large  pieces 
should  be  covered,  or  place  the  china  where  no  dust  can  get  to  it. 

CHROMO  PHOTOGRAPHY. 

It  does  not  require  as  much  artistic  talent  as  one  would  suppose  tO' 
transfer  and  paint  photographs  on  glass.  The  shading  and  fine  work 
are  already  furnished  by  the  photographer,  and  all  that  is  required  to 
paint  the  pictures  is  a  little  care  in  following;  outlines,  and  taste  in  colors. 

The  materials  necessary  are  convex  glass  in  card  and  cabinet  size,, 
three  camel's-hair  brushes,  Nos.  i,  2  and  3,  a  small  quantity  of  amber- 
line  (which  may  be  procured  at  the  druggists),  some  adhesive  paper  and 
the  best  tube  paint  in  flake-white,  Naples  yellow,  Vandyke  brown^ 
Prussian  blue,  ivory  black,  rose  madder,  vermilion  and  terre-verte. 
One  dollar  and  a  half  will  cover  the  cost  of  material  to  begm  with. 
You  will  have  enough  paint  to  color  the  photographs  of  all  your 
friends,  and  the  glasses  cost  but  a  few  cents. 

Soak  the  photograph  in  clear  raiawater  until  it  will  readily  slip  from 
the  card.  On  no  account  must  it  be  pulled  from  the  card,  or  you  will 
ruin  the  picture.  Place  the  photograph  between  two  pieces  of  blotting 
paper,  or  dry  it  with  a  soft  cloth.  Trim  the  picture  until  it  is  a  trifle 
smaller  than  the  glass.  Have  the  under  or  hollow  side  of  the  glass 
perfectly  clean  and  dry.     Make  a  thin  paste  of  corn-starch,  and  while  it 


CHROMO  PHOTOGRAPHY.  297 

is  warm  quickly  cover  the  face  of  the  photo  well  with  a  soft  cloth. 
Then  immediately  place  the  face  side  of  the  photo  next  the  glass,  hold 
it  firmly  in  the  center  with  the  thumb  of  the  left  hand,  and  with  the 
right  hand  and  a  piece  of  soft  paper  quickly  press  out  all  the  moisture 
and  air,  working  it  outward  toward  the  edge  of  the  glass  and  wiping  it 
off  with  a  clean  cloth.     This  is  the  most  difficult  part  of  the  whole. 

You  must  be  very  careful  and  not  rub  so  hard  as  to  tear  the  paper, 
and  not  a  particle  of  air  or  moisture  must  be  left  between  the  paper  and 
glass.  If  you  are  not  successful  the  first  time,  soak  the  picture  off  and 
try  it  again.  Be  sure  that  the  edges  are  firmly  fixed  to  the  glass. 
When  the  back  of  the  picture  is  perfectly  smooth  and  dry,  with  a  piece 
of  fine  sandpaper  go  over  the  back  of  the  picture  gently,  to  remove  any 
paste  that  may  have  adhered  to  it. 

Now  take  a  shallow  tin  dish  large  enough  to  admit  of  putting  the 
glass  in  (a  cake  tin  will  do  nicely),  and  melt  amberline  in  it  until  it  is 
half  an  inch  in  the  dish.  Amberline  is  something  like  sperm  and  will 
congeal  as  quickly.  When  the  amberline  is  melted  and  hot,  lay  the 
picture  in  it,  the  under  side  down,  just  long  enough  for  every  part  of 
the  paper  to  be  wet ;  take  it  out  and  as  quickly  as  possible  wipe  every 
bit  of  it  off  with  a  soft  cloth ;  the  paper  will  be  soaked  through  and 
perfectly  transparent.  Be  sure  that  it  is  all  transparent.  You  are  now 
ready  to  paint. 

Have  a  piece  of  glass  on  which  to  mix  and  try  your  colors.  Paint 
directly  on  the  back  of  the  photograph,  holding  up  to  the  light  in  order 
to  follow  the  outlines.  First  with  your  finest  brush  paint  the  corners 
of  the  eyes  with  white  into  which  a  pin  point  of  yellow  has  been  mixed. 
Pure  white  is  best  if  the  subject  is  a  child  or  a  blonde.  If  blue  eyes, 
paint  the  round  part  of  the  eye  with  Prussian  blue,  making  it  lighter  if 
desired,  by  mixing  white  with  it.  For  brown  eyes  use  Vandyke  brown. 
The  lips  of  a  blonde  are  painted  with  rose-madder  and  white,  a  pin 
point  of  each  mixed.  For  a  brunette  use  vermilion  and  white.  Always 
wipe  one  kind  of  paint  from  the  brush  before  using  another.  A  drop 
of  spirits  of  turpentine  or  castor  oil  and  a  soft  cloth  are  good  to  clean 
brushes.  If  you  do  not  get  the  color  right  at  first,  it  may  be  washed  off 
with  turpentine  and  a  cloth.  While  the  lips  and  eyes  are  drying,  out- 
line the  face  and  ear  with  a  line  of  pure  white.  Now  supposing  the 
hair  to  be  light  golden  brown,  mix  a  very  little  yellow  and  white  with 
Vandyke  brown,  putting  on  the  color  thus  made  with  your  second  size 
brush ;  touch  the  eyebrows  with  the  same  color,  as  hair  and  eyebrows 
generally  correspond.     If  the  hair  is  dark  brown,  use  Vandyke  brown. 

Jewelry  should  be  painted  with  light  yellow.  Laces,  ruchings  and 
shirt  fronts  or  anything  pure  white  should  be  painted  with  pure  flake- 
white.  For  the  center,  or  shadow  part  of  the  ear,  use  a  very  fine  point 
of  vermilion,  painting  the  rest  of  the  ear  with  white  and  just  a  touch  of 


208  .   PAINTING, 

rose-madder.  The  chin  and  cheeks  of  a  blonde  are  painted  with  rose- 
madder,  white,  and  the  barest  touch  of  yellow,  well  mixed ;  this  gives 
what  artists  call  the  flesh  tint.  Vermilion  is  used  in  place  of  rose-mad- 
der if  the  subject  is  a  brunette.  Under  the  eyes  and  around  them  use 
the  flesh  tint  made  of  rose-madder,  white  and  yellow;  lighten  this  shade 
by  adding  a  little  white,  and  paint  around  the  edges  of  the  hair,  adding 
more  white  as  you  paint  toward  the  eyebrows,  blending  your  colors 
well.  Taste  and  practice  will  determine  the  right  shades  to  give  the 
face.     The  neck  requires  the  flesh  tint. 

For  black  clothing  use  ivory  black.  Terre-verte  and  flake-white,  well 
mixed,  make  a  cool  gray  tint  for  drapery  or  background.  White,  rose- 
madder  and  terre-verte  make  a  good  background  for  brunettes ;  and 
Prussian  blue,  rose-madder  and  white,  make  a  lavender  tint,  a  handsome 
background  for  blondes.  When  the  picture  is  all  painted  and  dry,  cut 
a  piece  of  white  card-board  the  size  of  the  glass,  and  fasten  it  to  the 
back  of  the  glass  by  binding  the  edges  with  a  narrow  strip  of  adhesive 
paper.  The  picture  without  this  white  at  the  back  will  look  streaked. 
If  you  wish  to  try  the  effects  of  a  color,  place  your  photographs  against 
a  white  background. 

If,  as  in  some  cases,  the  paper  on  which  the  photograph  is  printed  is 
very  thin,  of  poor  quality,  and  looks  coarse  when  painted,  only  color 
the  eyes,  lips  and  hair,  and  any  jewelry  or  lace,  on  the  first  glass,  and 
take  a  second  glass  and  place  back  of  it,  separating  the  two  with  thin 
wedges  of  card-board  at  the  corners  ;  bind  them  together  with  adhesive 
paper  and  paint  on  the  second  glass.  Use  your  coarsest  brush  for 
drapery  and  background.  If  you  cannot  obtain  adhesive  paper,  use 
mucilage  and  a  strip  of  thin  paper  or  musHn. 

FAN  PAINTING. 

The  fan  has  a  surface  in  the  shape  of  the  segment  of  a  circle  which 
is  called  a  mount.  Fan  painting  is  done  on  fan  paper,  India  paper, 
satin,  gauze  and  vellum.  All  these  mounts,  with  the  exception  of  vellum 
have  to  be  sized ;  it  would  be  impossible  to  paint  them  in  their  ordi- 
nary state,  as  the  colors  would  run  and  outlines  would  be  impossible. 
Heretofore  the  decorator  has  had  to  be  at  the  trouble  of  making  his 
own  size,  a  tedious  and  very  troublesome  process.  Now,  however, 
small  bottles  of  mixing  preparation,  as  it  is  called,  can  be  bought  at  any 
artists'  materials' store. 

The  stuff  is  cut  to  the  proper  dimensions  for  a  stretcher— similar  to 
an  embroidery  frame — on  which  it  is  stretched  by  means  of  wedges. 
When  this  is  done  the  size  is  spread  on  both  sides  with  a  soft  brush. 
Now  cut  out  the  fan,  mount,  and  be  careful  to  place  the  selvage  of  the 
stuff  lengthwise.  The  sizing,  stretching  and  cutting  out,  require  such 
careful  attention  to  details  that  many  ladies  prefer  to  buy  the  mounts 


FAN  PAINTING.  299 

already  prepared  for  painting.  They  can  be  obtained  in  any  material  ; 
having  decided  on  the  style  of  fan  you  wish  to  paint,  take  the  mount 
and  fix  it  on  a  perfectly  flat  drawing-board  ;  in  order  to  fix  it  without 
making  spots,  dip  a  small  brush  into  gum  and  pass  it  continuously  all 
around  the  edge  of  the  mount  you  wish  to  strain,  to  the  width  of  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  only ;  hold  in  your  other  hand  a  soft  linen  rag,  and 
as  you  place  the  mount  on  the  board  press  it  down  with  the  linen  to 
make  it  adhere ;  stretch  as  much  as  possible  aad  then  leave  it  to  dry. 
When  you  are  sure  that  the  mount  is  properly  dry  you  must  trace  a 
segment  of  a  circle  more  or  less  large,  according  to  the  size  of  the  fan- 
stick  which  is  to  receive  it.  Fan-sticks  vary  in  length  from  ten  to  six- 
teen inches.  In  the  execution  of  a  fan,  the  drawing  holds  almost  as 
important  a  place  as  the  painting.  Unless  you  are  an  expert  draughts- 
man it  is  better  to  trace  your  subject  on  the  fan-moun^,  as  it  is  impos- 
sible to  use  either  India  rubber  or  bread  crumbs  for  erasing  imperfect 
work.  If  you  decide  in  favor  of  tracing  the  design,  take  a  sheet  of  ver}^ 
thin  paper  on  which  you  make  your  composition.  When  the  drawing 
is  finished,  spread  a  thin  coat  of  black  lead  over  the  back,  and  rub  it  on 
the  sheet  of  the  tracing  paper  very  lightly.  Before  you  transfer  the 
drawing  to  the  mount,  fix  it  securely  by  means  of  needles,  then  take  an 
ivory  tracer  and  pass  it  over  each  one  of  the  pencil  marks  of  the  draw- 
ing, which  is  by  this  means  reproduced  on  the  mount. 

The  requisites  for  the  fan  painter  are  a  drawing  board  made  out  of 
one  piece  of  wood  twenty-eight  by  fourteen  inches,  or  a  stout  mill-board 
of  the  same  size.  A  large  brush  for  back  grounds  and  water,  one  brush 
of  medium  size  for  draperies  and  trees,  one  small  brush  for  figures  and 
extremities,  an  ivory  tracer,  two  saucers,  tracing  paper  lead  pencils,  a 
bottle  of  gum  for  sticking  the  fan-mount  and  a  bottle  of  ox-gall. 

The  Colors  Used  for  fan-painting  are  :  Chinese  white,  emerald  green, 
sap  green,  Hooker's  green,  bright  chromium  green,  Naples  yellow, 
cobalt  blue,  ultramarine  blue,  sepia,  burnt  sienna,  vandyke  brown,  light 
red,  vermilion,  carmine,  crimson  lake,  Indian  yellow,  lemon  yellow,  ivory 
black  and  Payne  gray.  Keep  within  reach  the  color  box  and  brushes,  a 
bottle  of  Chinese  white  and  tv^^o  saucers  filled  with  water,  in  one  of 
which  you  will  wash  your  brushes  each  time  you  have  to  take  a  fresh 
tint.  The  water  in  the  other  use  for  painting.  You  will  need  a  piece 
of  fine  white  rag  for  cleaning  and  wiping  the  brushes. 

Of  all  materials  used  to  paint  on,  vellum  is  the  most  satisfactory  in 
every  respect ;  satin  presents  the  most  difficulties  and  discouragements 
to  the  amateur  artist ;  or.  the  former  really  exquisite  and  artistic  crea- 
tions can  be  executed.  The  artist  is  not  restricted  in  the  choice  of 
subjects,  for  all  compositions,  however  intricate  or  minute,  can  be  repro- 
duced, down  to  the  smallest  detail,  on  vellum.  Satin  fans  are  fashion- 
able, but  this  fabric  makes  unremitting  demands  on  the  patience  of  the 


300  PAINTING, 

artist ;  it  is  so  porous  that  it  often  absorbs  two  or  three  tints,  before  it 
retains  solidity  enough  to  allow  the  painting  to  be  finished.  Subjects 
are  chosen  that  are  light  and  graceful,  but  "  sketchy,"  with  the  least 
possible  work  in  the  background.  Garlands  of  tea  roses  and  red  roses 
are  effective  on  satin  of  any  color,  as  are  also  small  figures  or  cupids. 
Amateur  decorators,  at  least,  should  content  themselves  with  mere  out- 
line subjects  of  the  simplest  character,  if  they  essay  painting  on  satin. 
For  gauze,  which  should^be  strong,  black  and  very  transparent  subjects, 
such  as  snow  scenes  and  large  leaves,  with  winged  insects  are  selected  \ 
the  subject  is  sketched  in  outline. 

Painting  in  Body  Color  is  done  in  a  particular  way.  In  the  laying 
of  the  tints  it  approaches  very  near  to  pastel  soft  crayons.  In  order 
that  a  work  done  in  body  color  may  be  lasting,  it  is  necessary  that  the 
first  washes  of  color  be  properly  put  on.  For  example,  take  a  flower, 
say  a  poppy ;  fill  in  the  various  dark  leaves  with  a  tint  prepared  of  the 
deepest  shade  of  color ;  others  with  a  second  tint,  and  those  that  are 
quite  light  with  still  another  tint ;  let  it  dry,  then  clear  it  up  by  degrees,, 
by  more  delicate  tints  and  washes,  and  finally  by  high  lights  in  relief. 
Two  or  three  strokes  of  the  brush  with  dark  color  used  almost  dry  will 
suffice  to  mark  the  inside  of  the  flower.  Light  colored  stuffs  present 
much  fewer  difficulties  to  a  beginner.  Lights  are  never  preserved  either 
on  a  textile  fabric  or  on  paper ;  it  is  Chinese  white  alone  that  makes 
them. 

For  Figures  in  Body  Colors,  take  up  with  a  brush  some  lemon  yellow 
and  lay  it  on  your  palette ;  mix  with  it  a  touch  of  vermilion,  which  pro- 
duces a  flesh  color ;  add  a  little  Chinese  white  which  gives  the  color 
more  consistency;  let  it  dry;  it  will  be  on  this  first  wash  very  evenly 
laid,  that  you  will  finish  the  little  heads,  either  of  children  or  of  adults. 
In  a  group,  the  same  complexion  is  not  to  be  given  to  all  the  persons 
alike  ;  the  flesh  must  therefore  be  varied.  The  features  which  you  have 
only  indicated  in  the  tracing,  are  done  with  grayish  brown  for  the  eyes, 
and  with  carmine  and  vermilion  for  the  lips  and  nostrils.  These 
features  are  generally  so  small  and  so  little  marked,  that  without  mak- 
ing a  tint  expressly  for  them,  you  will  always  find  enough  color  on  your 
palette  to  furnish  you  with  what  is  necessary  for  details  of  the  kind. 
Fair  hair  is  primed  with  a  tint  of  lemon  yellow  mixed  with  a  little  brown 
and  yellow ;  but  these  colors  must  always  be  mixed  with  Chinese  white. 
Dresses,  draperies  and  ribbons  are  begun  with  the  different  shades  of 
color  decided  on ;  white  is  used  at  first  always,  so  that  they  may  present 
a  certain  surface  and  soHdity  to  admit  of  high  finish.  Lay  the  tints  in 
graduation  when  beginning;  the  lights  are  placed  (always)  on  after- 
wards ;  care  must  be  taken  not  to  exaggerate  the  thickness  of  the  color, 
for  then  it  would  peel  off  in  scales.  Landscapes  should  be  begun  by 
the  skies,  then  the  distance,  and  so  on,  always  coming  nearer  to  the 


IMPRESSIONS  OF  LEA  VES.  301 

more  intense  planes.  Skies  are  done  with  a  very  pale  blue,  beg^inning 
from  the  top;  the  tint  softened  by  graduation  down  to  the  horizon  is 
tinged  either  with  yellow  or  pink,  according  to  the  situation  of  the  sub- 
ject ;  the  yellow  tinge  for  morning  and  the  pink  tinge  for  evening. 

Trees  on  fans  do  not  resemble  the  trees  painted  after  the  laws  of 
nature ;  the  combination  of  the  colors  must  be  in  harmony  with  the 
effect  of  light;  for  this  reason  trees  in  the  distance  are  done  with 
emerald  green  and  pink,  almost  lilac  ;  those  in  the  middle  distance  havfe 
most  frequently  autumnal  tints  ;  those  in  the  foreground  only  are  green, 
but  of  a  very  subdued  green.  Moreover,  the  amount  of  space  in  height 
which  the  fan  affords  always  causes  landscape  to  be  sacrificed  to  the 
figures.  The  representation  of  water  looks  well  on  a  fan ;  it  is  always 
done  horizontally,  excepting  when  it  is  a  water-fall  or  spring.  A  lake, 
a  pond,  or  a  running  stream  brings  to  the  front  those  beautiful  water 
plants,  that  are  so  well  done  in  body  color  and  fill  in  the  foreground  so 
conveniently.  For  the  water  use  nothing  but  blue-green  mixed  with 
white  and  grissailed  here  and  there  for  the  reflfxtions.  For  clear  water 
and  glints  of  light,  use  Chinese  white  pure,  used  very  lightly. 

Temples,  Ruins,  Fountains,  all  that  form  the  distance  of  fans,  require 
only  delicate  tints  of  lemon  yellow  or  Naples  yellow,  with  a  greyish  mix- 
ture, including  raw  sienna  and  burnt  sienna,  but  all  this  is  to  be  used 
lightly.  You  must  succeed  in  making  a  nondescript  neutral  tint.  It  is 
important  when  you  have  grouped  together  the  figures  in  one  of  your 
compositions,  to  study  the  effect  of  the  colors  you  have  to  give  their 
dresses.  You  must  remember  that  certain  colors  advance  and  that 
others  retire. 

The  Complimentary  Colors,  that  is  to  say,  the  colors  which  form  the 
shadows  of  dresses  or  draperies  and  render  them  harmonious  to  the 
eye,  are  these:  Red  may  be  shaded  with  green,  yellow  with  violet,, 
ultramarine  with  orange,  orange  with  blue,  violet  with  Indian  yellow, 
cobalt  with  ochre,  carmine  with  light  emerald  green,  emerald  green  with 
violet  blue,  lemon  yellow  with  lilac  made  of  pmk  and  light  blue,  the 
grays,  all  colors  ;  black  is  shaded  with  white  and  white  with  black ;  all 
these  colors  must  be  mixed  with  white  in  order  that  they  may  appear 
harmonious.  In  tiny  fan  painting,  more  white  must  be  used  with 
colors  for  texile  fabrics  than  for  paper.  For  pamting  on  chestnut  and 
on  sycamore  wood,  a  little  ox  gall  added  to  the  colors  when  used  will  be 
found  sufficient. 

IMPRESSIONS  OF  LEAVES. 

To  make  impressions  of  leaves  upon  silk,  linen  or  paper,  first  prepare 
two  rubbers  of  wash-leatner,  made  by  tying  up  wooi  or  any  other  sub- 
stance in  the  leather,  then  prepare  the  colors  yoa  wish  the  leaves  to  be, 
by  rubbing  up  with  cold-drawn  linseed  oil  the  colors  you  want,  as  indigo 
for  blue,  chrome  for  yellow,  indigo  and  chrome  together  for  green.     Get 


302  PAINTING, 

any  number  of  leaves  the  size  and  kind  you  wish  to  stamp,  then  dip 
the  rubbers  into  the  paint  and  rub  them  one  over  the  other,  so  that  you 
will  have  but  a  small  quantity  of  the  paint  upon  the  rubbers,  place  a 
leaf  upon  one  rubber  and  moisten  it  gently  with  the  other,  take  the  leaf 
off  and  apply  it  to  the  material  you  wished  stamped  ;  upon  the  leaf  place 
a  piece  of  clean  white  paper,  press  gently,  and  you  will  have  a  perfect 
impression  of  the  leaf. 

JAPANESE  LACQUER  WORK. 

This  is  an  easy  and  also  elegant  art.  An  old  work-box,  tea  caddy, 
fiower  pot,  or  any  article  may  be  ornamented  with  these  simple  materi- 
als. Select  perfect  leaves  ;  dry  and  press  them  ;  rub  the  surface  of  the 
article  to  be  ornamented  with  fine  sand-paper,  then  give  it  a  coat  of  fine 
black  paint,  which  should  be  procured  mixed  at  a  paint  shop  ;  when  dry, 
rub  smooth  with  pumice  stone  and  give  two  more  coats  of  paint ;  when 
dry,  arrange  leaves  in  any  manner  and  variety,  according  to  taste  ;  gum 
the  leaves  on  the  under  side  and  press  them  upon  their  places  ;  then  dis- 
solve some  isinglass  in  hot  water,  brush  it  over  the  work  and  let  it 
dry  ;  then  give  two  or  three  coats  of  copal  varnish,  allowing  ample  time 
for  each  to  dry.  Articles  thus  ornamented  last  for  years,  and  are  very 
pleasing. 

DESIGNS  FOR  PANELS. 

The  panel  is  often  a  very  pretty  shape  for  some  designs.  With  a  few 
exceptions,  it  is  not  as  suitable  for  landscape  painting  as  for  flowers.  A 
view  of  a  waterfall  makes  a  very  pretty  panel,  as  the  shape  of  the  design 
will  admit  of  its  being  painted  upon  a  panel.  Small  bits  may  be  taken 
from  landscape  views,  such  as  a  woodland  or  meadow  brook ;  and  in 
marine  views  a  high  cliff,  or  a  great  rock,  with  a  stormy  sky,  and  a  dash- 
ing sea  are  pretty  designs.  The  panel  seems  to  be  just  the  thing  for 
flower  painting.  The  gilt  ones  are  beautiful  with  a  spray  of  flowers 
running  across  from  corner  to  corner.  The  apple  blossom  with  its 
woody  stem,  and  a  few  leaves,  and  also  moss  rose  buds,  are  lovely  on  a 
gilt  ground.  Put  a  pretty  sky  on  a  narrow  panel,  with  a  ground  work 
of  fine  grasses,  and  on,  the  right  or  left,  as  you  please,  paint  some  tall 
field  flowers  and  grasses,  with  a  bird  in  flight,  and  you  have  a  pretty 
design.  This  design  may  be  varied  by  painting  ferns  and  grasses,  or 
tall  white  lilies  on  the  side.  Winter  bits  of  landscape  with  birds  in  the 
foreground,  are  also  pretty. 

Amateurs  who  are  good  copyists  and  have  never  tried  designing, 
would  do  well  to  paint  their  own  designs  from  natural  flowers.  Group 
and  intertwine  the  flowers  and  leaves,  fastening  them  in  place ;  sketch 
the  design  diagonally  across,  or  through  the  center,  if  preferred,  taking 
care  to  have  no  stiffness  in  the  detail.  If  success  follows  this  attempt, 
countless  beautiful  designs  may  be  painted  from  natural  flowers.     The 


DESIGNS  FOR  PANELS.  303 

handsomest  panels  are  those  made  of  dark  fine  grained  wood  with  those 
in  white  wood  for  contrast.  A  dark  panel  may  be  painted  with  fine 
effect  with  bright  scarlet  or  pink  flowers,  with  rich  green  leaves  and 
ferns. 

Handsome  paper  weights,  either  square  or  of  panel  shape,  may  be 
cut  from  wood  of  sufficient  thickness.  Upon  them  may  be  painted  a 
variety  of  designs.  A  spray  of  strawberry  blossoms  and  leaves,  with 
rich  red  berries,  or  a  bunch  of  small  white  lilies  and  leaves  are  pleasing 
designs. 

A  small  bird's  nest,  with  blue  eggs,  surrounded  with  tall  grasses,  or  a 
few  dark  flowers,  with  leaves  of  rich  coloring,  are  handsome  designs 
for  a  white  ground.  The  pansy  is  a  beautiful  flower  for  a  light 
ground,  and  if  intertwined  with  a  few  dark  green  ivy  leaves,  the  effect  is 
still  better. 

Very  handsome  panels  in  imitation  of  the  Japanese  are  two  and  three 
feet  long,  by  half  a  foot  wide.  They  are  made  of  dark  woods,  or  white, 
if  preferred,  for  the  mantel. 

Those  of  white  wood  one  and  a  half  feet  in  length  are  handsome  set 
upon  tall  ebony  easels.  Vines  are  the  appropriate  designs  for  these 
panels.  The  English  and  German  ivies,  with  sprays  of  fine  flowers, 
running  irregularly  through  and  across  the  surface,  are  handsome.  One 
of  the  loveliest  vines  is  the  morning  glory  with  its  vines  twisted  into 
great  ropes,  and  covered  with  dark  green  leaves,  rich  purples  and 
delicate  pink  and  white  blossoms. 

To  vary  the  monotony  of  flower  and  landscape  panels,  paint  upon  a 
white  wood  panel,  a  comical  design  in  white  silhouettes,  or  paint  an 
ebony  panel  with  design  in  white  silhouettes,  finished,  if  you  like,  with 
a  vine  or  arabesque  around  the  edge. 

There  is  a  good  deal  of  art  in  a  spirited  silhouette,  and  it  would 
doubtless  give  many  more  pleasure  than  a  finely  executed  flower  piece  ; 
not  that  they  lack  artistic  sense  or  love  of  the  beautiful,  but  that  they 
appreciate  more  keenly  portrayals  of  people  and  life.  * 

Painting  the  panels  of  handsome  hard  wood  furniture  gives  a  very 
elegant  effect.  Large,  heavy  pieces  will  bear  an  elaborate  design  of 
flowers,  or  a  small  circular  or  oval  landscape  for  a  center,  with  flowers 
and  vines  in  corners  or  running  along  edges. 

In  painting  panels  or  any  small  surface,  a  great  fault  is  the  use  of  too 
many  .flowers.  One  single  spray  of  flowers  with  its  leaves  is  much 
more  pleasing  to  the  eye  than  a  mass,  or  even  two  or  three  kinds,  unless 
they  be  so  skillfully  harmonized  that  they  seem  to  grow  together. 

Above  all,  simplicity  should  be  studied  in  decorating  any  article  with 
flowers  ;  but  the  simplest  design  should  be  so  true  to  nature  that  it  can- 
not but  be  beautiful. 


306  PAINTING. 


ROMAN  PICTURES. 

Choose  your  picture  and  get  a  pane  of  window  glass  the  size  of  the 
picture,  varnish  one  side  of  the  glass  with  white  varnish,  and  place  it 
where  it  will  dry  ;  then  fill  a  pan  with  water  and  put  the  picture  in  it ; 
after  it  is  wet,  remove  carefully  and  place  on  a  paper  to  dry.  The  face 
of  the  picture  goes  on  the  side  of  the  glass  that  is  varnished,  then 
commence  while  the  picture  is  damp  and  rub  off  the  paper  until  you 
see  the  outlines  of  the  picture,  taking  care  not  to  rub  clear  to  the  glass. 
Smooth  it  nicely  with  a  fine  piece  of  sandpaper,  and  give  it  a  heavy 
coat  of  varnish.  After  it  is  dry  take  any  color  of  paper  you  fancy  for 
a  background.  By  carefully  following  these  directions  you  cannot  fail 
to  produce  a  pleasing  picture.  For  colored  pictures  use  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  vinegar  to  one  quart  of  water,  for  wetting  the  picture. 

PAINTED   SHELLS. 

The  smooth,  pearly  shells  give  a  very  fine  surface  on  which  to  paint 
marine  views.  Almost  any  beach  view  can  be  adapted  to  the  size  of 
the  shell,  and  by  varying  the  coloring  the  same  view  may  be  painted  in 
several  different  ways. 

Some  of  the  Atlantic  coast  views,  especially  on  the  coast  of  Maine 
and  Massachusetts,  give  a  variety  of  grand  sea  views,  from  which  bits 
maybe  taken  suitable  for  shell  painting. 

These  views  may  be  obtained  from  woodcuts  and  engravings,  the 
artists  coloring  them  as  they  may  see  fit.  It  is  also  very  easy  to  design 
a  handsome  beach  view,  especially  if  one  is  familiar  with  the  sea. 
Those  who  are  so  favored  as  to  often  visit  it,  can  paint  lovely  views 
from  nature  ;  rough  water  making  the  handsomest  views. 

The  broad  pearl  shells  now  used  for  painting  are  beautiful  for  a  vari- 
ety of  views  ;  in  fact,  any  water  view  is  suitable.  They  are  much 
larger  than  the  clam  shell,  and  give  a  surface  for  a  good  sized  land- 
scape. A  border  of  an  inch  or  more  in  width  should  be  left  around 
I  he  shell,  the  pearl  edge  giving  a  lovely  effect  to  the  landscape.  The 
prevailing  tint  of  the  pearl  edge  should  harmonize  with  the  sky  tints. 
A  green  tinted  pearl  should  not  be  painted  with  a  blue  sky.  Such 
combinations  of  colors  would  mar  the  effect  of  a  view,  which,  with 
other  coloring  would  have  been  lovely.  Blue  skies  are  beautiful  on  the 
pure  pearl  white,  or  the  pink-tinted  shell. 

The  best  effect  is  produced  on  pearl  shells,  by  painting  landscapes 
with  the  broadest  part  of  the  shell  up,  and  on  the  clam  shell  the  broad- 
est part  down,  the  sky  running  up  into  the  pointed  part. 

The  clam  shell  should  be  finished  with  a  narrow  edge  of  pure  white, 
something  over  an  eighth  of  an  mch  in  width.  This  edge  give:^  a  more 
finished  look  than  to  paint  the  view  close  to   the  edge.     A  large  pearl 


STUDIO  HINTS.  307 

shell,  some  eight  or  ten  inches  across,  painted  with  landscape,  and 
placed  in  a  satin  or  morocco  holder,  or  on  a  gilded  or  silver  wire  easel, 
makes  an  elegant  ornament  for  mantel  or  table. 

As  regards  flower  painting  on  shells,  it  is  easily  done  if  one  likes  it, 
but  it  seems  entirely  unsuitable  to  paint  flowers  on  sea  shells.  When 
we  take  up"  a  shell  with  flowers  upon  it,  we  can  hardly  imagine  the  roar 
uf  the  sea  or  the  rush  of  waters  that  washed  it  up  on  the  beach. 

As  to  decorating  other  than  the  broad  open  shells,  that  have  no  par- 
ticular beauty  of  their  own,  it  seems  a  desecration  of  Nature's  painting. 

DESIGNS  FOR  SCREENS. 

Usually  the  panel  shape  is  preferred,  and  ciel  blue,  maroon,  pale  yel- 
low, olive  green,  gray,  old  gold  and  black,  are  the  colors  preferred. 
Take  the^  silk  and  line  it  with  two  thicknesses  of  paper  cambric.  It  is 
belter  to  use  white  cambric,  as  a  dark  shade  will  sometimes  be  percep- 
tible through  the  texture  of  the  silk.  Cut  the  lining  somewhat  narrower 
Than  the  outside  silk,  place  it  on  the  silk,  and  sew  up  the  two  opposite 
long  edges.  Then  turn  it  so  that  the  seams  will  be  inside,  leaving  the 
top  and  bottom  edges  raw  and  unfinished,  and  stretch  it  upon  a  draw- 
ing-board or  small  table  ready  to  paint. 

If  unused  to  the  free  handling  of  the  brush,  the  worker  may  find  it 
desirable  to  trace  the  outline  of  the  design  with  faint  pencil  marks  upon 
the  silk.  Afterward  the  color  may  be  carefully  laid  on,  and  the  design 
may  then  be  enlarged  or  improved  upon  as  desired.  Water-colors  are 
preferable  in  painting  upon  silk,  though  oil  paints,  if  carefully  put  on, 
may  also  be  used. 

Daisies,  thistles,  wheat,  clover,  grasses,  water  lilies,  Cherokee  wild 
roses,  morning  glories,  scarlet  cocks'-combs,  cat-tails  and  Japan  Hlies 
are  among  the  prettiest  flower  designs.  Three  or  four  peacock  plumes 
carefully  grouped  together,  a  stork,  peacock  or  scarlet^  flamingo  are 
among  the  odd  designs  for  screens.  When  the  painting  is  completed 
the  silk  panel  must  then  be  framed.  Plush  or  velvet  is  generally  used 
tor  the  frame  or  border,  put  on  the  top  and  bottom  edges,  and  the  sides 
Jeft  plain.  The  frame  is  usually  of  a  contrasting  color  in  bamboo,  reeds 
or  wood. 

STUDIO  HINTS. 

Successive  coats  of  varnish  may  be  removed  from  a  plain,  uncarved 
surface  by  rubbing  with  ordinary  sand-paper.  Where  there  is  fine 
carving,  take  a  stick,  sharpened  and  rounded  at  the  end,  and  cover  the 
rounded  part  neatly  with  sand-paper,  rolled  or  glued  on.  The  "  rubber  " 
may  be  worked  in  the  fine  spaces  to  rub  the  varnish  off.  Another 
method  is  to  take  a  piece  of  haircloth,  pour  Unseed  oil  and  fine  rotten- 
stone  on  the  varnish,  and  rub  continuously  until  the  wood  underneath 


308  PAINTING. 

reappears.  To  remove  paint  from  canvas  and  wood,  lay  your  canvas 
on  a  flat  surface,  placing  a  smooth  thin  pad  of  paper  or  cotton  cloth 
under  it.  Sponge  the  surface  with  spirits  of  turpentine,  to  soften  the 
surface ;  then,  with  a  nail  brush,  sponge,  or  pad  of  coarse  linen,  wash 
and  rub  the  canvas  gently  with  warm  soft  water  and  soap ;  a  small 
quantity  of  ammonia  will  facilitate  the  operation.  A  strong,  warm  solu- 
tion of  soda,  rubbed  on  the  surface,  will  remove  old  paint.  Spirits  of 
turpentine  or  benzine  will  also  remove  paint  from  wood.  To  make 
bamboo  easels  :  get  the  bamboo,  bend  it  into  shape,  and  glue.  Use 
ordinary  white  or  brown  glue ;  the  latter  is  the  stronger  kind.  Soak 
the  glue  over  night,  boil  in  a  small  vessel  set  in  a  larger  vessel  of  water 
for  several  hours.  Heat  the  parts  of  the  bamboo  to  be  joined  together 
and  apply  the  glue  boiling  hot,  and  at  about  the  consistency  of  thick 
treacle. 

TRANSFER  WORK.  v 

For  those  who  have  no  knowledge  or  talent  for  painting,  are  designs 
for  transferring,  and  if  the  work  is  skillfully  done  it  can  hardly  be  told 
from  painting.  The  pictures  come  ready  to  be  transferred  to  china,  of 
flowers,  figures,  birds,  and  almost  any_  subject,  colored  in  the  dull  shades 
of  La  Croix  colors.  Before  firing,  you  transfer  the  picture,  say  a  bouquet 
of  flowers,  upon  a  cup  and  saucer;  cover  them  with  a  thin  coating  of 
varnish,  which  comes  for  the  purpose,  and  send  to  the  kiln.  After  firing, 
they  are  as  bright  and  beautiful  as  one  could  wish,  and  often  much  more 
correct  in  drawing  than  when  done  by  hand.  The  varnish  used  for  this 
work  is  quite  expensive,  but  the  same  preparation  is  made  in  this  way, 
at  little  expense.  Put  balsam  of  fir  into  a  bottle  with  just  enough  tur- 
pentine to  eat  the  balsam  on  the  picture ;  don't  rub  it,  only  give  it  a 
soft  dab  or  two  ;  then  take  a  large  tailor  spool  for  a  roller,  so  as  to  get 
it  all  smoothed  out,  or  any  smooth  wood  roller  will  do. 

A  Japanese  cup  and  saucer  is  made  by  taking  an  ordinary  transpa- 
rent china  cup  and  saucer,  one  more  flat  than  deep,  and  paint  them  a 
dark  blue,  red  or  yellow.  Bake  thoroughly  dry  in  a  mild  oven.  Then 
transfer  carefully  small  Japanese  figures.  Do  not  be  in  too  great  a  hurry 
to  remove  the  pictures,  for,  to  make  a  good  imitation,  there  must  not 
be  a  crease  or  wnnkle.  When  completed  set  away  a  day  or  two  before 
using.  Plates  and  pictures  can  be  made  in  the  same  way,  and  very 
beautiful  cider  pitchers  can  be  made  by  taking  the  pitchers  in  their 
natural  colors  and  transferring  the  pictures  on  them.  These  transfer 
pictures  can  be  bought  at  any  artist's  store.  Some  people  call  the  same 
style  of  picture  decalcomanie. 

Handsome  plates  for  brackets  or  shelves  can  be  made  by  painting  the 
edge  of  a  shallow  plate,  red,  blue  or  gold,  and  transferring  in  the  center 
a  large  group  of  autumn  leaves,  flowers  or  fruit.  A,  small  wire  bent  so 
that  each  end  just  comes  over  the  edge  of  the  plate  far  enough  to  hold. 


PAPER  LANDSCAPES.  309 

and  a  V-shapcd  piece  of  wire  fastened  to  this  makes  a  good  siipport 
for  it.  The  httle  wooden  plates  can  be  made  almost  as  pretty  as  if 
hand  painted,  by  using  scrap-book  pictures  or  decalcomanies  in  the 
center.  One  large  flower  is  all  it  needs,  but  this  must,  to  be  pretty,  be 
of  a  graceful  and  bright  design,  A  stork  wading  through  grasses  is 
easily  arranged,  and  very  effective. 

A  tasteful  paper-weight  can  be  made  by  taking  a  large  mussel  or 
clam  shell.  Boil  it  in  lye  to  make  it  white,  fill  it  with  sand,  glue  it 
together,  and  polish  the  outside  with  sand-paper  and  chamois.  When 
it  glistens  like  mother-of-pearl,  select  a  pretty  little  marine  view  and 
transfer  upon  it.  On  nearly  all  beaches  you  can  find  large,  smooth, 
pretty-colored  stones.  By  transferring  landscapes  or  marine  views  on 
these,  they  can  be  made  into  pretty  paper-weights.  Cupids,  storks,  and 
some  kinds  of  flowers  are  very  pretty  for  this  purpose.  They  are  pretty 
in  their  natural  colors,  but  if  another  is  desired  they  can  be  dipped  in 
a  dye  made  of  a  solution  of  chloride  of  tin.  The  dye  should  first  be 
boiled  and  then  allowed  to  settle. 


PAPER  LANDSCAPES. 

Observe  well  the  shadows  of  the  pictures  you  wish  to  copy ;  draw 
their  shapes  as  exactly  as  you  can,  and  cut  them  out.  Paste  these 
pieces  on  a  sheet  of  paper,  in  the  same  relative  positions  they  occupy  in 
the  landscape ;  if  the  shade  be  rather  light,  put  on  only  one  thickness  of 
paper  ;  if  darker,  two  and  three  thicknesses  may  be  used  ;  if  the  shadow 
is  very  deep  and  heavy,  five  or  six  pieces  may  be  pasted  on,  one  above 
another.  When  held  up  to  the  light,  shades  are  produced,  differing  in 
degrees  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  paper.  These  make  very 
pretty  tranparencies  for  lamps  in  summer.  Lamp  shades  can  be  made 
in  this  way,  with  colored  paper  placed  between  two  thin  white  papers, 
and  so  arranged  that  the  shadows  will  represent  grapes,  or  any  fruit  or 
flower.  China  lamp  shades  are  prepared  in  the  same  way  ;  that  is,  por- 
tions of  the  china  are  made  thicker  than  others ;  in  the  daylight  they 
look  perfectly  white,  but  when  the  light  shines  through  them  the  shades 
look  like  a  soft  landscape  in  India  ink.  It  is  on  the  same  principle  that 
the  beautiful  transparencies  are  made  for  windows. 


310  HOW  TO  MAKE  PERFUMERY, 


HOW  TO  MAKE   PERFUMERY. 

This  is  enough  for  a  small  trial,  which  can  be  managed  by  any  per- 
son having  the  run  of  a  garden  :  Procure  an  ordinary  glue  pot,  which 
melts  the  material  by  the  boiling  water ;  when  the  flowers  are  in  bloom 
obtain  half  a  pound  of  fine  mutton  suet  and  strain  it  through  a  hair- 
sieve  ;  allow  the  liquefied  fat  as  it  falls  from  the  sieve  to  drop  into  cold 
water.  This  operation  granulates  and  washes  the  blood  and  membrane 
from  it ;  this  must  be  repeated  three  or  four  times  ;  finally  remelt  the 
fat  and  cast  into  a  pan  to  free  it  from  water. 

Now  put  the  clarified  suet  into  the  macerating  pot  and  place  it  in 
such  a  position  near  a  tire  that  it  will  keep  warm  enough  to  be  liquid  ; 
into  the  pot  throw  as  many  flowers  as  you  can  ;  let  them  remain  twenty- 
four  hours,  then  strain  the  fat  from  the  spent  flowers  and  add  fresh 
ones ;  repeat  this  operation  for  a  week.  At  the  last  straining  it  will  be 
highly  perfumed.  When  cold,  chop  up,  like  suet  for  a  pudding;  put  in 
a  wide  mouth  bottle,  cover  with  spirits  as  highly  rectified  as  can  be 
obtained,  and  let  digest  for  a  week  or  more.  The  spirit  then  strained 
off  will  be  highly  perfumed.  In  reality  it  will  be  the  extract  of  the 
flower,  a  most  delightful  perfume  for  the  handkerchief. 

The  same  experiment  may  be  repeated  with  almond  oil  instead  of 
fat.  The  experiment  here  hinted  at  may  be  varied  with  any  flowers 
whatever ;  indeed  by  having  the  macerating  bath  larger  than  mentioned 
above,  an  excellent  millefleur  pomade  and  essence  may  be  produced 
from  any  conservatory. 


PICTURES. 


MOUNTING  THEM. 


Make  a  stretcher;  take  cheap  unbleached  muslin*  and  tack  on, 
stretching  tight.  Varnish  it  all  over  on  the  back  with  coach  varnish 
and  let  dry  for  a  couple  of  days.  Make  a  paste  of  silver  gloss  starch, 
putting  into  a  teacupful  of  starch  about  a  teaspoonfal  of  white  gum 
arable,  dissolved  in  water.  Stir  until  cold ;  spread  it  on  the  canvas  very 
thin  and  on  the  back  of  the  chromo  or  picture.  Lay  the  picture  on  the 
canvas  and  rub  with  a  cloth  until  it  sticks ;  then  hang  up  and  let  dry. 

Great  care  must  be  taken  to  keep  the  corners  and  edges  rubbed  down 
smoothly.  The  sizing  or  paste  must  be  put  on  very  quick  or  it  will  set 
before  the  picture  is  put  on.  The  beauty  of  this  sizing  is  that  it  will 
draw  tight  as  a  drum,  and  will  not  stain  the  most  delicate  pictures. 


PICTURES.  311 

To  make  varnish  for  varnishing  pictures  after  they  are  mounted  ;  this 
is  the  same  as  used  on  all  tine  chromos.  It  will  not  lose  its  luster  by 
steam  or  by  rubbing-  with  a  cloth  wet  with  cold  w^ater  to  clean  it :  Take 
best  coach  varnish  one  part  and  alcohol  two  parts  ;  put  them  in  a  bottle 
and  shake  them.  Then  pour  a  little  in  a  cup,  take  a  camel's  hair  brush, 
such  as  is  used  for  varnishing,  and  spread  on  quickly  for  the  alcohol 
evaporates  very  soon.  The  varnish  must  be  shaken  every  time  it  is 
poured  out,  or  the  alcohol  will  not  stay  mixed  with  the  varnish.  If  one 
coat  will  not  do  put  on  another  in  a  day  or  so  after  the  first  has  dried, 
brushing  it  the  other  way  on  the  picture.  This  gives  a  beautiful  polish 
if  care  is  taken  to  keep  it  out  of  the  dust  while  drying. 

HANGING  THEM. 

It  seems  a  very  simple  thing  to  hang  pictures,  but  how  few  rooms 
there  are  in  which  they  are  hung  so  as  to  show  their  beauty.  And  m 
the  fine  art  exhibitions  they  are  hung  as  though  to  fill  up  space.  In 
hanging  pictures  much  depends  on  taste,  some  will  have  the  bottom  of 
all  the  picture  frames  on  a  line  around  the  room,  while  others  prefer  to 
see  it  broken. 

Never  hang  a  picture  so  that  the  shadows  will  come  near  a  window, 
as  the  side  that  needs  the  light  will  not  get  it,  and  so  a  good  subject 
may  be  spoiled,  the  owner  not  knowing  why.  Do  not  hang  small  pic- 
ture above  large  ones,  for  small  objects  have  to  be  nearer  the  eye  to  be 
seen  good,  while  large  subjects  look  better  a  short  distance  away. 
Pictures  should  never  be  hung  opposite  windows  if  it  can  be  avoicied, 
as  both  glass  and  varnish  reflect  the  light,  so  that  when  standing  in 
front  of  them  it  almost  totally  hides  the  picture. 

Always  be  sure  that  the  nails  and  cord  are  strong  enough  to  stand 
the  weight  of  the  frames.  Have  the  picture  cord  as  near  the  color  of 
the  walls  as  possible.  When  the  pictures  are  hung  in  more  than  one 
row,  have  the  top  ones  lean  forward  more  than  the  lower  ones  ;  this  can 
be  done  by  putting  the  screw  eyes  nearer  the  bottom  in  the  sides  of  the 
frame. 

When  the  common  cord  is  used,  it  should  be  examined  once  every 
few  months,  as  the  weight  of  pictures  cuts  the  cord  where  it  crosses  the 
nail,  and  by  not  looking  to  this  simple  thing  hundreds  of  pictures  have 
been  ruined  by  falling.     Wire  cord  is  best,  but  it  also  has  to  be  watched. 

Never  hang  paintings  and  chromos  side  by  side,  but  put  engravmgs 
between.  Do  not  hang  water-colors  near  paintings,  chromos  or  other 
colored  pictures. 

Get  the  best  pictures  you  can  afford,  as  one  good  picture  is  better 
than  a  dozen  poor  ones.  Landscapes  make  a  room  look  larger  than 
most  other  pictures;  full  length  pictures,  or  large  sized  animals  should 


312  PICTURES. 

not  be  hung  with  other  subjects,  as  giants  and  pigmies  give  too  much 
contrast,  and  are  not  pleasant  to  the  sight. 

EMBROIDERED  PICTURE   FRAMES. 

A  very  pretty  photograph  frame  is  made  by  embroidering  on  satin, 
sateen,  or  velvet.  The  frame,  when  completed,  should  be  ten  inches 
long,  and  eight  inches  and  a  half  wide.  The  embroidery  should  begin 
down  in  the  lower  left  hand  corner,  and  extend  to  the  top  of  the  frame, 
say  to  about  the  middle  of  the  top,  or  toward  the  right  hand  of  the  top. 
Of  course,  in  putting  on  the  design,  care  must  be  taken,  that  not  too 
much  of  it  is  cut  off,  by  the  square,  or  oval,  place,  which  is  to  be  left  for 
the  photograph.  Anyone  who  can  design,  or  can  copy  from  nature 
(which  is  even  better),  can,  for  a  very  small  expense,  make  exquisite 
frames  of  this  kind.  Daisies,  golden-rod,  lilies  of  the  valley,  wild  roses, 
snowdrops,  carnations,  clover,  etc.,  all  look  beautiful  on  these  frames 
Among  the  very  prettiest  is  one  of  clover  blossoms  and  leaves,  thrown 
on  an  old  gold,  sateen  ground ;  another  is  of  golden-rod,  on  a  dark  blue 
satin  ground ;  and  another  of  field  daisies,  on  a  dark  velvet  ground.  If 
painting  is  preferred  to  embroidery,  it  looks  equally  as  well,  and  is  more 
quickly  accomplished.  The  frames  can  be  easily  made  at  home,  of  stiff 
card-board  or  of  very  thin  wood,  and  covered  with  the  material  after- 
wards. 

PASSEPARTOUT   FRAMES. 

These  can  be  made  of  the  common  window  glass  panes.  If  the  pic- 
ture is  smaller  than  the  glass,  cut  a  matting  out  of  white  or  gray  paper 
(velvet  paper  makes  a  beautiful  matting  if  it  can  be  procured),  then  cut 
a  piece  of  thin  pasteboard  the  same  size  of  the  glass  and  paste  picture 
and  matting  on  the  pasteboard  ;  lay  over  this  the  glass  and  bmd  the 
edges  with  marble  paper  of  the  same  color  as  the  matting.  This  paper 
can  be  bought  at  any  picture  store. 

OIL  PAINTINGS  AND  ENGRAVINGS. 

Oil  paintings  can  be  washed  in  sweet  milk  and  warm  water,  then  care- 
fully dried  ;  do  not  rub  them  hard.  Gik  frames,  if  varnished  when  new, 
can  be  washed  without  injury. 

Castile  soap  and  water  can  be  used  on  oil  paintings  without  danger, 
care  being  taken,  of  course,  not  to  wet  the  back,  or  let  water  through 
cracks. 

For  the  ordinary  dusting  of  pictures  a  silk  handkerchief  should  be 
used. 

When  much  discolored  by  age,  they  have  been  restored,  by  brushing 
them  free  from  dust  and  then  covering  by  a  layer  of  shaving  soap  for  a 


PLASTER  CASTS.  313 

few  minutes,  after  which  they  are  thoroughly  dried  and  soaked  in  nitro- 
glycerine. 

Heavy  gilt  frames  only  are  appropriate  for  oil  paintings. 

An  engraving  would  be  made  to  appear  cold  by  a  bright  or  heavy 
gilt  frame,  though  sometimes  a  plain,  unburnished  one  looks  well.  Of 
course  a  margin  of  white  paper  is  needed  between  the  prmted  surface 
and  the  frame,  so  as  not  to  make  the  contrast  of  brilliancy  too  violent. 

Water  in  which  onions  have  been,  rubbed  lightly  over  the  frames, 
will  keep  flies  away  from  them. 

VELVET  PICTURES. 

Pictures  of  statuary,  photographs  of  busts,  or  celebrated  portraits,  are 
very  handsome  mounted  on  wine  colored  or  black  velvet.  Cut  the  pic- 
ture out  from  the  background,  closely,  so  that  none  of  the  margin  is 
visible.  If  they  are  mounted  on  heavy  card-board,  they  will  be  difficult 
to  cut,  and  must  first  be  soaked  in  warm  water,  then  carefully  dried 
between  blotters,  before  being  cut,  and  then  put  on  the  velvet.  Paste 
them  on  the  velvet  with  the  white  of  an  tgg — this  is  better  than  gum- 
arabic — and  put-  no  glass  over  them,  as  this  spoils  the  effect.  Ferns, 
phantom  and  autumn  leaves  can  be  arranged  in  the  same  way,  and  are 
very  beautiful  on  red,  green  or  black  velvet.  Pictures  from  newspa- 
pers, if  good  subjects,  look  as  well  as  photographs.  Mounted  in  this 
way,  female  heads  or  busts  of  celebrities  are  much  improved  with  the 
velvet  background,  and  as  they  require  only  simple  frames,  are  not  very 
expensive. 

VARNISHING  CHROMOS  OR  LITHOGRAPHS. 

When  chromos  or  lithographs  are  varnished  they  may  be  wiped  off 
with  a  damp  cloth  without  injuring  the  picture.  Have  the  chromo  or 
engraving  nicely  mounted,  then  with  a  clean,  flat  varnish  brush  lay  on 
an  even  coat  of  size  (made  by  dissolving  white  glue  or  isinglass  in  luke- 
warm water  till  it  becomes  of  the  consistency  of  cold  starch),  going  over 
the  picture  lightly  and  evenly.  When  quite  dry,  go  over  it  again  in  the 
same  manner  with  Demar  varnish,  giving  one  or  more  coats,  in  a  warm 
room ;  lay  away  out  of  the  dust  for  a  day  or  two,  and  your  picture  is 
ready  to  handle, 


PLASTER    CASTS. 

Marble  statuary  is  not  within  the  reach  of  all ;  but  anyone  can  obtain 
a  plaster  cast  at  small  expense.  This  can  be  beautified  into  quite  an 
attractive  parlor  ornament.  Take  common  white  paint  mixed  in  oil, 
and  stir  into  it  a  little  burnt  umber  till  it  is  of  a  ligfht  cream  color. 


314:  PRESSED  A  UTUMN  LEA  VES. 

Paint  the  cast  with  this  two  or  three  times,  and  be  careful  not  to  clog 
up  the  delicate  markings  about  the  eyes,  mouth,  etc.  To  remove  the 
glossy  appearance,  paint  with  the  same  tint  mixed  with  turpentine  alone. 
Plaster  casts  prepared  in  this  way  can  be  washed  with  soap  and  water. 
The  following  is  a  recipe  for  cleaning  plaster  casts  :  Make  a  thin  solu- 
tion of  starch,  and  with  a  brush  entirely  cover  the  surface  of  the  plas- 
ter ;  leave  it  to  dry  for  about  three  days,  and  then  peel  it  off  carefully. 


PRESSED    AUTUMN    LEAVES. 

Many  think  that  the  frosts  must  come  and  touch  the  leaves  before 
they  are  ready  for  collection  ;  that  the  tints  are  not  perfected  at  that 
time  ;  but  this  is  a  mistake.     As  soon  as  a  leaf  is  turned  it  may  be  gath- 
ered, but  must  be  perfectly  dry — that  is,  no  atmospheric  damp  upon  it, 
or  the  leaf  will  shrivel  and  wrinkle,  losing  its  bright  color.     Do  not 
press  the  leaves  at  all,  but  use  them  fresh  from  the  tree  and  iron  them 
with  spermaceti,  not  wax,  as  the  latter  makes  them  dull-looking,  and 
does  not  bring  out  the  colors.     If  properly  done,  they  will  look  as  bright 
as  if  just  gathered ;  and  it  is  surprising  how  long  they  will  retain  their 
beauty  in  spite  of  dust,  light  and  heat.     Procure  from  the  druggist 
smooth  pieces  or  cakes  of  fine  spermaceti  (don't  take  a  candle  as  some 
do),  as  they  go  so  much  farther.     Put  a  board  on  th^  ironing-table,  as 
the  grease  spoils  everything,  and  have  as  many   thicknesses   as   for 
ordinary  ironing.     Use  old  muslin,  and  have  plenty  on  hapd.     The  iron 
must  be  just  hot  enough  to  "  hiss  "  when  touched  with  a  wet  finger ;  if 
too  hot,  it  scorches  the  leaves  and  ruins  them.     If  the  leaves  are  damp, 
wipe  them  first  with  a  soft  cloth,  then  pass  the  iron  quickly  over  the 
spermaceti,  then  over  the  right  side  of  the  leaf ;  turn  it  over  and  there 
will  be  sufficient  sperm  on  the  cloth  to  thoroughly  saturate  it ;  keep  on 
ironing  it,  moving  it  over  to  a  new  spot,  until  it  is  as  dry  as  paper,  stem 
and  all.     Do  not  press  the  iron  on  it  too  long,  but  until  it  is  nearly  cold- 
After  doing  as  many  leaves  as  you  wish  in  this  way,  take  a  fresh  iron, 
at  the  same  temperature,  run  it  quickly  over  the  spermaceti,  and  then  as 
rapidly  and  evenly  as  possible  over  the  right  side  of  your  leaves.     This 
gives  them  the  final  polish,  and  if  they  are  successfully  done  they  will 
look  beautiful  and  bright.     Have  a  large  newspaper  spread  conveniently 
to  receive  them  when  finished,  and  let  them  remain  for  an  hour  or  two. 
Then  place  them  carefully  in  boxes  away  from  the  light  until  ready  for 
use.     If  they  should  curl,  as  they  sometimes  do,  place  them  (in  twenty- 
four  hours  after  they  are  done)  in  books,  under  pressure,  but  not  very 
heavy. 

Practice  on  some  inferior  leaves  first,  and  be  sure  to  have  them  ironed 


PRESSED  A  UTUMN  LEA  VES.  315 

thoroughly  dry,  or  they  will  wrinkle  after  the  polishing.  In  doing  the 
latter,  try  to  touch  every  part  of  the  leaf  evenly,  but  if  you  find  some 
spots  you  did  not  touch,  go  over  them  again,  very  carefully,  with  a  little 
spermaceti  on  the  point  of  your  iron. 

Another  way  is  to  melt  the  wax  or  spermaceti — spermaceti  is  rather 
the  best — in  a  glazed  earthen  cup  or  bowl,  just  hot  enough  to  be  liquid ; 
dip  in  the  leaf  or  fern  and  lay  it  on  a  smooth,  flat  surface  to  dry.  All 
bits  of  waste  wax  can  be  used  for  this  purpose — it  matters  not  the  color 
of  the  wax. 

The  dark  green  trailing  vines  of  the  blue  myrtle  and  smilax  make 
additions  and  a  pleasing  contrast  to  the  various  colored  leaves,  and  look 
as  fresh  and  glossy  as  if  newly  plucked.  Tiny  ferns  and  pressed  pan- 
sies  make  charming  trailing  vines  combined  with  the  autumn  leaves,  to 
put  above  the  doors,  pictures  or  pier  glasses.  Monograms,  initials  and 
glass  mottoes  can  be  made  with  little  difficulty  by  taking  tiny  pins 
and  fastening  the  leaves  in  their  various  designs  upon  the  wall 
paper.  These  can  be  drawn  lightly  with  a  pencil  on  the  wall  and  the 
outlines  followed.  With  some  artistic  taste  and  an  idea  as  to  the  blend- 
ing and  harmonizing  of  colors,  one  can  almost  have  oil  paintings  of 
their  own,  of  autumn  scenes,  to  gladden  and  make  bright  their  homes 
when  winter  rages  without.  Walls  with  patches  of  leaves  here  and 
there,  or  a  clump  of  fifteen  or  twenty  lapped  over  each  other,  are  not 
artistic.  They  should  be  put  up  separately,  with  the  sterns  arranged 
in  curves,  as  if  it  was  a  branch  of  leaves. 

The  leaves  of  the  beech  trcQ  after  they  have  turned  brown  can  be 
arranged  on  frames,  brackets,  crosses  or  wreaths  and  will  look  exceed- 
ingly pretty.  The  leaves  of  the  sumach,  maple,  Virginia  creeper, 
woodbine,  Jack  in  the  pulpit  and  all  ferns,  can  be  pressed  without  losing 
color  or  beauty  of  form. 

Autumn  leaves  look  very  pretty  with  diamond  dust  sprinkled  on  them 
after  they  have  been  waxed.  Put  the  diamond  dust  on  them  while  they 
are  warm. 

Both  ferns  and  leaves  can  be  arranged  as  vines  on  the  wall  or  cur- 
tains, or  as  a  cornice,  by  taking  very  fine  wire  and  winding  the  stems 
and  then  arranging  them  as  a  long  vine.  Another  good  way  is  to  fasten 
them  on  with  thin  mucilage  to  a  strip  of  lace  of  suitable  width,  and  then 
use  it  as  a  cornice  for  curtains,  or  border  for  lambrequins  or  brackets. 
A  cluster  of  leaves  put  between  two  thicknesses  of  gauze,  the  edge 
finished  with  ribbon,  makes  a  pretty  window  transparency,  if  one  likes 
these  trifles  in  the  window.  Most  any  way  is  preferable  to  giving  them 
a  stiff,  imprisoned  look. 


316  PRESSED  FLO  WERS, 


PEESSED    FLOWERS. 

If  to  be  arranged  like  a  painting,  take  sonne  plain  white  wrapping 
paper  and  place  the  flowers  or  leaves  carefully  between  the  sheets  of 
the  paper.  Then  press  them  by  placing  a  heavy  weight  over  them  (the 
letter-presses  are  excellent),  and  leave  them  a  day  or  two,  then  change 
the  papers;  thus  the  juices  of  the  flowers  are  absorbed.  It  takes  a 
week  or  two  to  press  perfectly,  and  in  summer  often  longer.  When 
dry  place  them  in  a  book  or  air-tight  box  ready  for  use.  A  year  is 
required  to  make  a  varied  and  handsome  collection,  as  each  flower  has 
its  own  season  for  blossoming.  Wild  flowers  retain  their  colors  better 
than  cultivated ;  but  experience  alone  will  teach  what  flowers  will 
retain  their  colors  best.  This  is  a  list  of  flowers  which  are  known  to 
retain  their  colors  by  this  mode  of  pressing : 

All  geraniums  (except  horseshoe  and  sweet-scented)  preserve  their 
color.  They  are  very  essential,  as  their  color  is  brilliant  and  keeps  for 
years.  All  yellow  flowers,  both  wild  and  cultivated,  retain  their  color. 
The  violet  and  pansy,  dwarf  blue  convolvulus,  blue  larkspur,  blue  myr- 
tle, blue  lobelia,  heaths,  the  small  original  fuchsia,  wild  housatonia  and 
many  tiny  blue  and  even  white  flowers  press  perfectly. 

For  green ;  ivy,  maiden  hair,  ferns  or  brake,  mosses,  etc.,  retain  their 
color  best.  Rarely  a  cultivated  green  leaf  presses  well.  Autumn 
leaves,  if  small,  and  the  youngest  oak  leaves  mix  well.  Certain  kinds 
of  stems,  such  as  pansy  and  others  of  similar  character,  are  best  adapted 
for  pressing. 

After  the  collection  is  made,  take  card-board,  without  a  polish  if 
possible,  and  arrange  the  flowers  as  designed.  Gum  them  to  the 
paper  with  tragacanth,  using  a  camel's-hair  brush ;  then  press  on  the 
paper  and  flower  with  a  cloth,  carefully  absorbing  all  moisture  as  well 
as  firmly  pressing  the  flower  on  the  paper.  Geraniums  and  some  larger 
flowers  look  better  if  each  leaf  is  glued  on  separately. 

In  forming  the  bouquet,  it  is  better  to  arrange  the  stems  first  and 
work  upwards.  Baskets  and  vases  of  moss  with  flowers  are  pretty. 
To  form  these  trace  out  with  a  pencil  the  vase  or  basket  and  glue  on 
the  moss.     Then  arrange  the  flowers. 

It  is  a  pleasant  way  of  preserving  mementoes  of  friends,  places  or 
events.  Flower  albums  or  journals  are  very  beautiful.  Wreaths 
arranged  of  different  varieties  of  pelargoniums  mixed  in  with  any  pretty 
green  and  other  little  flowers,  such  as  lobelias,  are  very  handsome  and 
the  co'ors  are  durable.  Pansies  of  different  shades  look  well,  and  bril- 
liant wreaths  may  be  made  of  all  the  varieties  of  flowers  that  hold  their 
color.     The  ov  al  shape  looks  the  best  for  wreaths. 


TO  PRESER  VE  FLO  WERS  AND  FRUIT.  317 

There  are  innumerable  varieties  of  ferns,  lycopodiums  and  maiden 
hair,  both  native  and  foreign,  suitable  for  pressing.  By  pasting  each 
specimen  on  a  separate  sheet  and  interspersing  specimens  of  our  beau- 
tiful autumn  leaves,  also  on  separate  sheets,  and  fastening  them  together, 
either  bound  as  a  book  or  in  a  portfolio,  you  will  possess  a  beautiful 
and  attractive  book  with  but  little  expense. 

Crosses  can  be  arranged  with  ferns  and  shaded  to  appear  as  if 
painted  in  perspective — like  a  cross  standing  in  a  mossy  band, 
with  flowers,  etc.,  growing  round  and  over  it.  First  draw  and  shade 
the  cross,  then  take  the  small  leaflets  of  the  darkest  colored  ferns 
you  can  procure  and  glue  them  on  carefully  where  the  cross  should  be, 
in  the  darkest  shadow ;  then  take  the  brightest  green  ferns  such  as  are 
gathered  in  spring)  and  end  with  white  ferns  (which  can  be  obtained 
in  the  fall),  using  them  for  the  lightest  shade ;  be  careful  to  cover  every 
part  and  shade  it  wiih  nature's  colors  as  you  would  paint.  In  a  cross 
six  inches  high  and  suitably  proportioned,  full  two  hundred  of  the  tiny 
leaflets  of  fern  can  be  used  to  good  advantage  before  it  is  completed. 
Then  lake  wild  lycopodium  if  it  can  be  obtained,  if  not,  the  finest  of  the 
cultivated,  and  arrange  it  on  the  cross  to  look  like  a  vine  growing  over 
and  hanging  from  it ;  also  paste  to  it  tiny  little  pressed  lobelias,  and 
arrange  small  ferns,  mosses  and  any  little  flowers  (wild  ones  are  prefer- 
able) around  the  base  of  the  cross  to  look  like  a  mossy  bank.  Different 
designs  can  be  arranged  in  the  same  way. 

Be  very  careful  in  pasting  on  flowers  and  leaves,  that  every  part,  how- 
ever small,  is  firmly  fixed  to  the  paper ;  press  them  on  after  pasting 
with  a  dry  cloth. 


TO    PRESERVE   FLOWERS   AND    FRUIT. 

Take  the  whitest  river  or  bay  sand,  and  wash  clean.  Heat  very 
hot,  so  as  to  dry  it  thoroughly,  then  let  it  cool.  Take  any  kind  of 
medium  sized  box  and  place  enough  sand  in  it  to  hold  the  flowers  in 
position.  Put  a  little  of  the  sand  in  a  coarse  sieve  and  gently  rub  through 
until  the.flowers  are  well  covered.  Set  by  a  stove  or  in  some  warm  place 
until  dry.  If  the  flowers  have  thick  petals,  the  sand  will  have  to  be 
changed  once  in  two  days,  each  time  covering  the  flowers  with  dry 
sand.  The  only  trouble  is  to  know  when  the  process  is  completed,  as 
plants  differ  in  time  required.  Marigolds,  zinnias  and  larkspur  retam 
their  colors  and  look  very  pretty. 

Autumn  leaves  and  grasses  can  be  dried  in  this  way  and  will  repay 
anyone  who  will  try  this  simple  method.     All  flowers  intended  to  be 


318  TO  PRESERVE  FLOWERS  AND  FRUIT. 

dried  b}^  the  sand  bath  should  be  picked  after  the  dew  has  dried  on 
them. 

Flowers  may  also  be  preserved  with  sulphur,  by  the  following  pro- 
cess :  Procure  a  moderate-sized  box  (a  tea-box  will  answer),  and  across 
the  top,  on  the  inside,  tack  two  narrow  strips  of  wood  on  opposite  sides, 
upon  which  rests  thin  rods  for  the  flowers  to  hang  from.  Have  a  small 
door  cut  in  on  one  side  at  the  lower  part,  which  must  open  and  close 
by  means  of  two  hinges.  It  is  absolutely  essential  that  the  box  should 
be  perfectly  air-tight. 

Arrange  the  flowers  in  clusters  of  two  to  a  dozen,  according  to  the 
size.  Tie  them  and  hang  the  clusters  to  the  rod,  but  not  near  enough 
to  touch  each  other.  Put  a  shovel  of  live  coals  in  an  iron  pan,  spread- 
ing them  over  the  bottom.  Place  it  in  the  box,  and  sprinkle  over  the 
coals  tw^o  ounces  of  sulphur.  Then  place  the  lid  on  the  box.  The 
small  door  is  kept  open  for  a  few  minutes.  Glance  in  to  see  that  there 
are  no  flames,  but  only  the  fumes  of  the  sulphur.  Close  the  door,  throw 
a  thick  blanket  over  the  box,  and  leave  it  for  twenty-four  hours. 

Upon  exposing  the  flowers  to  the  air,  the  cqlor  which  has  been 
bleached  out  of  them  will  return.  Should  you  desire  to  brighten  them, 
it  can  be  done  by  the  appHcation  of  a  little  paint.  As  the  success  of 
this  experiment  depends  entirely  upon  the  exclusion  of  the  air,  the  box 
must  be  as  air-tight  as  it  can  be  made.  The  room,  too,  m  which  the 
box  is  placed  must  be  perfectly  dry. 

Or,  fruit  and  flowers  may  be  preserved  from  decay  and  fading,  by 
immersing  them  in  a  solution  of  gum  arabic  and  water,  two  or  three 
times,  waiting  a  sufBcient  time  between  each  immersion  to  allow  the 
gum  to  dry.  This  process  covers  the  surface  of  the  fruit  with  a  thin 
coating  of  the  gum,  which  is  entirely  impervious  to  the  air,  and  thus 
prevents  the  decay  of  the  fruit  or  the  withering  of  the  flowers.  Roses 
preserved  in  this  way  have  all  the  beauty  of  freshly-plucked  ones, 
though  they  have  been  separated  from  the  parent  stem  for  many 
months.  To  insure  success  in  experiments  of  this  kind  it  should  be 
borne  in  mind  that  the  whole  surface  must  be  completely  covered  ;  for 
if  the  air  only  gets  entrance  at  a  pin  hole  the  labor  will  be  lost.  In 
preserving  specimens  of  fruit  particular  care  should  be  taken  to  cover 
the  stem  end  and  all  with  the  gum.  A  good  way  is  to  wind  a  thread 
of  silk  about  the  stem  and  then  sink  it  slowly  in  the  solution,  which 
should  not  be  so  strong  as  not  to  leave  a  particle  of  the  gum  undis- 
solved. The  gum  is  so  perfectly  transparent  that  you  can  with  difficulty 
detect  its  presence  except  by  the  touch.  Here  we  have  another  simple 
method  of  fixing  the  fleeting  beauty  of  nature. 


COLLECTING  PLANT  SPECIMENS.  319 


COLLECTIlSra   PLANT   SPECIMENS. 

The  articles  requisite  for  the  purpose  consist  of  a  dozen  quires  of 
smooth  soft  paper  of  a  large  size,  six  boards  of  a^out  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness, and  four  iron  or  lead  weights  (two  of  them  about  thirty  pounds 
and  the  two  others  about  half  that  weight)  and  a  botanical  box  of  tin 
and  of  such  dimensions  as  shall  be  most  convenient  for  the  collector. 

The  plants  to  be  preserved  ought,  if  possible,  to  be  gathered  in  dry 
weather ;  but,  if  the  weather  be  wet,  they  ought  to  be  laid  out  for  some 
time  on  the  table  till  partially  dried,  and  when  the  roots  are  taken  up 
along  with  the  stems,  they  ought  to  be  washed  and  then  exposed  to  the 
air  for  the  same  purpose. 

To  preserve  plants,  lay  over  one  of  the  boards  two  or  three  sheets  of 
the  paper.  On  the  uppermost  sheet  spread  out  the  specimen  to  be 
preserved,  unfolding  its  parts  so  as  to  give  it  as  natural  an  appearance 
as  possible,  laying  out  the  leaves  and  flowers  with  particular  care. 
Over  the  specimen  thus  disposed  of,  place  several  sheets  of  paper ;  on 
the  uppermost  sheet  then  spread  out  another  specimen,  and  so  proceed 
till  all  the  plants  you  intend  to  preserve  are  laid  down ;  and  having  put 
over  the  whole  some  more  sheets  of  paper,  place  a  board  over  them 
with  the  weights  upon  it,  which  may  be  a  number  of  clean  bricks,  if  the 
iron  or  lead  weights  cannot  be  conveniently  procured. 

As  some  plants  are  delicate  and  flexible,  and  others  comparatively 
thick  and  hard,  the  former  class  will  require  less  weight  to  be  placed 
over  them,  and  the  latter  considerably  more.  To  preserve  the  color  of 
flowers  when  drying,  the  greatest  care  is  required  in  changing  the 
papers  every  second  day,  which  papers  first  ought  to  be  well  dried  at 
the  fire.  With  regard  to  keeping  the  shape  of  flowers,  the  utmost  care 
and  attention  is  necessary  when  arranging  them  on  the  paper,  and 
which  can  be  done  by  having  another  piece  of  paper,  and  gently  laying 
on  part  of  the  flower.  The  part  of  the  flower  so  covered  with  the  paper 
ought  to  have  a  small  book  placed  on  it.  Then  begin  and  lay  out  the 
other  leaves  of  the  flower,  and  also  press  it,  and  so  on,  until  each  part 
has  had  the  gentle  pressure  necessary  to  keep  it  in  position.  Let  them 
remain  so  for  a  short  time,  and  then  put  some  heavy  weight  on  them ; 
look  at  them  next  day,  and  change  the  damp  paper.  Ferns  have  been 
kept  for  years  quite  fresh  in  color  by  this  simple  mode  of  drying. 

In  three  or  four  days  the  plants  thus  treated  should  be  taken  out, 
together  with  the  paper  in  which  they  have  been  deposited,  and  laid  in 
fresh  paper  with  three  or  four  sheets  between  every  two  plants,  and  the 
board  and  weights  laid  upon  them  as  before.  This  process  must  be 
continued  until  the  plants  are  perfectly  dried.     Each  specimen  is  then 


320  ROCKERIES  AND  GROTTOES. 

to  be  placed  on  a  sheet  of  dry  paper,  along  with  a  memorandum  of  the 
name  of  the  plant,  the  place  and  time  at  which  it  was  gathered,  the 
character  of  the  soil  from  which  it  was  taken,  and  any  other  particulars 
tending  to  illustrate  its  character  and  history. 

How  to  Arrange  Tke?n.  For  this  purpose  procure  a  quantity  of 
writing  or  printing  paper,  of  stout  quality  and  large  size,  five  or  six 
sheets  of  which  ought  to  be  stitched  into  colored  covers.  Let  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  large  post  writing  paper,  cut  into  half-sheets  of  folio 
size,  be  in  readiness.  Each  plant  is  then  to  be  placed  on  one  of  these 
half -sheets,  and  fastened  to  it  by  means  of  slips  of  paper  gummed  across 
in  various  places.  On  the  top  of  the  page  the  particulars  contained  in 
the  memorandum  already  referred  to  should  be  written.  The  plants 
thus  secured  to  the  half-sheets,  must  then  be  placed  in  the  order 
required  (either  by  the  natural  or  artificial  systems)  within  the  leaves 
contained  in  the  colored  covers,  the  size  of  each  bundle  of  specimens 
rendering  it  convenient  at  any  time  for  purposes  of  reference.  Twelve 
of  such  parcel*^,  so  contained,  in  the  same  number  of  colored  covers  can 
then  be  tied  up  in  covers  of  stout  pasteboard,  and  laid  up  in  a  cabinet 
or  box  suited  to  the  purpose. 

Another  method  of  drying  plants  before  laying  them  aside,  and 
arranging  them  in  a  systematic  manner,  may  here  be  mentioned  as" 
worthy  of  attention.  Get  a  shallow  pan  or  tray  about  the  size  of  a 
blotting-paper  used  for  drying  plants.  Lay  the  plants  in  the  usual  way, 
between  the  sheets  of  the  blotting-paper,  and  when  the  tray  or  pan  is 
nearly  full,  cover  it  over  with  a  layer  of  dry  sand,  half  an  inch  thick  or 
so,  place  it  on  the  fender  before  the  tire,  and  in  three  hours  the 
plants  will  be  perfectly  dried. 


EOOKEHIES  AND  GEOTTOES. 

They  are  usually  built  in  the  style  of  a  castle  and  often  of  rocks  so 
large  that  it  takes  the  power  of  several  horses  to  draw  them  to  their 
particular  places,  but  when  they  are  there  they  stand  for  centuries. 
These  rustic  ornaments  are  made  of  common  rocks,  stones  and  sheUs, 
piled  up  in  pyramidal  forms  several  feet  high  and  many  feet  across  the 
base.  The  rocks  can  be  cemented  together  or  fastened  by  piling  them 
up  irregularly,  so  that  they  will  form  nooks  and  pockets  all  the  way  up 
to  the  top,  to  hold  the  soil  for  growing  plants  and  vines.  At  the  bottom 
niches  and  groitoes  can  be  filled  with  ferns  and  vines  that  grow  best  in 
water,  while  at  the  top  can  be  placed  those  plants  that  most  enjoy  heat 
and  sunshine. 

Do  not  locate  the  rock  too  near  the  house,  for  distance  here  adds 


ROSE  JARS  AND  PILLO  WS.  321 

beauty  to  the  view.  Nature  always  hides  her  mossy  and  ferny  nooks 
away  in  the  depths  of  woods  and  trees.  Make  it  look  as  natural  as 
possible,  never  allowing  any  pieces  of  painted  pottery  or  any  of  the 
other  imitations  of  statuary  or  rock  work,  to  be  placed  in  or  near  it. 
Gather  material  for  it  yourself  from  the  woods  and  rocky  shores  ;  old 
gnarled  knotty  roots  of  trees  are  an  addition ;  all  sorts  of  wild  wood 
plants  that  grow  in  damp,  dark  places  can  be  made  to  grow  here  if  they 
can  be  kept  damp  enough.  When  one  has  any  means  of  bringing 
water  in  pipes  to  the  ground,  it  is  an  easy  matter  to  manage  this,  and 
in  most  cases  a  fish  pond  can  be  arranged  in  the  grotto.  Where  one 
cannot  have  water  brought  to  the  grounds,  then  it  will  be  a  better  and 
more  successful  plan  to  plant  only  the  vines  and  flowers  that  do  not 
need  much  water. 

Creeping  Charlie,  Kenilworth  ivy  and  many  other  vines  will  g^ow 
in  dry  places,  and  several  species  of  cactus  will  grow  in  dry,  sandy 
soil.  When  plants  are  brought  from  the  woods  they  should  be  trans- 
planted in  their  native  soil.  Mosses,  lichens,  dwarf  evergreens,  squaw- 
berry  vines,  Jack  in  the  pulpit,  joy  Virginia  creeper,  caladiums,  coluses, 
acheranthes,  and  all  other  species  of  ferns  will  grow  here.  Those  that 
grow  best  in  damp  and  shade  should  be  placed  at  the  base,  and  such 
flowers  as  mignonette,  pansy  and  wild  columbine  will  grow  up  nearer 
the  top,  and  so  will  nearly  all  geraniums.  The  brilliant  yellow  and  scarlet 
nasturtiums,  also  cr^-santhemums,  are  also  very  beautiful.  The  latter 
are  a  brilliant  purple,  white  or  yellow. 

The  moneywort  is  a  hardy  little  plant ;  the  ice  plant  is  particularly 
pretty  with  its  leaves  sparkling  with  dew  drops,  but  is  not  very  hardy, 
nor  is  the  maurandia.  The  pretty  little  sedum  and  wandering  Jew  are 
also  effective.  Anything  will  grow  in  a  rockery  that  will  grow  in  the 
shade  or  shallow  soil.  Some  of  the  plants  and  vines  mentioned  will 
not  grow  in  the  rockery  if  entirely  shaded,  and  if  it  could  be  situated  so 
that  the  sun  would  shine  on  it  an  hour  or  two  each  day,  and  the  sun- 
loving  plants  placed  on  the  sunny  side  ,  it  would  be  an  improvement. 
Many  of  these  rockeries,  particularly  where  there  is  a  fish-pond,  are 
placed  out  in  the  open  grounds,  and  when  the  sun  shines  brightly,  then 
the  fishes  dart  in  the  shadow  of  the  rocks. 


ROSE  JAKS  AND  PILLOWS. 

A  good  way  to  preserve  rose  leaves,  and  one  which  may  be  kept  for 

twenty  years  in  all  its  sweetness,  is  a  scent  or  sweet  jar.     When  the 

rose  season  comes  in,  gather  from  day  to  day  the  leaves  from  all  varieties. 

The  weather  should  be  dry  and  sunny,  and  they  should  be  gathered  as 

21 


320  ROCKERIES  AND  GROTTOES. 

to  be  placed  on  a  sheet  of  dry  paper,  along  with  a  memorandum  of  the 
name  of  the  plant,  the  place  and  time  at  which  it  was  gathered,  the 
character  of  the  soil  from  which  it  was  taken,  and  any  other  particulars 
tending  to  illustrate  its  character  and  history. 

How  to  Arrange  Them.  For  this  purpose  procure  a  quantity  of 
writing  or  printing  paper,  of  stout  quality  and  large  size,  five  or  six 
sheets  of  which  ought  to  be  stitched  into  colored  covers.  Let  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  large  post  writing  paper,  cut  into  half-sheets  of  folio 
size,  be  in  readiness.  Each  plant  is  then  to  be  placed  on  one  of  these 
half-sheets,  and  fastened  to  it  by  means  of  slips  of  paper  gummed  across 
in  various  places.  On  the  top  of  the  page  the  particulars  contained  in 
the  memorandum  already  referred  to  should  be  written.  The  plants 
thus  secured  to  the  half-sheets,  must  then  be  placed  in  the  order 
required  (either  by  the  natural  or  artificial  systems)  within  the  leaves 
contained  in  the  colored  covers,  the  size  of  each  bundle  of  specimens 
rendering  it  convenient  at  any  time  for  purposes  of  reference.  Twelve 
of  such  parcels,  so  contained,  in  the  same  number  of  colored  covers  can 
then  be  tied  up  in  covers  of  stout  pasteboard,  and  laid  up  in  a  cabinet 
or  box  suited  to  the  purpose. 

Another  method  of  drying  plants  before  laying  them  aside,  and 
arranging  them  in  a  systematic  manner,  may  here  be  mentioned  as 
worthy  of  attention.  Get  a  shallow  pan  or  tray  about  the  size  of  a 
blotting-paper  used  for  drying  plants.  Lay  the  plants  in  the  usual  way, 
between  the  sheets  of  the  blotting-paper,  and  when  the  tray  or  pan  is 
nearly  full,  cover  it  over  with  a  layer  of  dry  sand,  half  an  inch  thick  or 
so,  place  it  on  the  fender  before  the  fire,  and  in  three  hours  the 
plants  will  be  perfectly  dried. 


EOOKEKIES  AND  GEOTTOES. 

They  are  usually  built  in  the  style  of  a  castle  and  often  of  rocks  so 
large  that  it  takes  the  power  of  several  horses  to  draw  them  to  their 
particular  places,  but  when  they  are  there  they  stand  for  centuries. 
These  rustic  ornaments  are  made  of  common  rocks,  stones  and  sheUs, 
piled  up  in  pyramidal  forms  several  feet  high  and  many  feet  across  the 
base.  The  rocks  can  be  cemented  together  or  fastened  by  piling  them 
up  irregularly,  so  that  they  will  form  nooks  and  pockets  all  the  way  up 
to  the  top,  to  hold  the  soil  for  growing  plants  and  vines.  At  the  bottom 
niches  and  grottoes  can  be  filled  with  ferns  and  vines  that  grow  best  in 
water,  while  at  the  top  can  be  placed  those  plants  that  most  enjoy  heat 
and  sunshine. 

Do  not  locate  the  rock  too  near  the  house,  for  distance  here  adds 


ROSE  JARS  AND  PILLO  WS.  321 

beauty  to  the  view.  Nature  always  hides  her  mossy  and  ferny  nooks 
away  in  the  depths  of  woods  and  trees.  Make  it  look  as  natural  as 
possible,  never  allowing  any  pieces  of  painted  pottery  or  any  of  the 
other  imitations  of  statuary  or  rock  work,  to  be  placed  in  or  near  it. 
Gather  material  for  it  yourself  from  the  woods  and  rocky  shores  ;  old 
gnarled  knotty  roots  of  trees  are  an  addition;  all  sorts  of  wild  wood 
plants  that  grow  in  damp,  dark  places  can  be  made  to  grow  here  if  they 
can  be  kept  damp  enough.  When  one  has  any  means  of  bringing 
water  in  pipes  to  the  ground,  it  is  an  easy  matter  to  manage  this,  and 
in  most  cases  a  fish  pond  can  be  arranged  in  the  grotto.  Where  one 
cannot  have  water  brought  to  the  grounds,  then  it  will  be  a  better  and 
more  successful  plan  to  plant  only  the  vines  and  flowers  that  do  not 
need  much  water. 

Creeping  Charlie,  Kenilworth  ivy  and  many  other  vines  will  grow 
in  dry  places,  and  several  species  of  cactus  will  grow  in  dry,  sandy 
soil.  When  plants  are  brought  from  the  woods  they  should  be  trans- 
planted in  their  native  soil.  Mosses,  lichens,  dwarf  evergreens,  squaw- 
berry  vines,  Jack  in  the  pulpit,  joy  Virginia  creeper,  caladiums,  coluses, 
acheranthes,  and  all  other  species  of  ferns  will  grow  here.  Those  that 
grow  best  in  damp  and  shade  should  be  placed  at  the  base,  and  such 
flowers  as  mignonette,  pansy  and  wild  columbine  will  grow  up  nearer 
the  top,  and  so  will  nearly  all  geraniums.  The  brilliant  yellow  and  scarlet 
nasturtiums,  also  crysanthemums,  are  also  very  beautiful.  The  latter 
are  a  brilliant  purple,  white  or  yellow. 

The  moneywort  is  a  hardy  little  plant ;  the  ice  plant  is  particularly 
pretty  with  its  leaves  sparkling  with  dew  drops,  but  is  not  very  hardy, 
nor  is  the  maurandia.  The  pretty  little  sedum  and  wandering  Jew  are 
also  effective.  Anything  will  grow  in  a  rockery  that  will  grow  in  the 
shade  or  shallow  soil.  Some  of  the  plants  and  vines  mentioned  will 
not  grow  in  the  rockery  if  entirely  shaded,  and  if  it  could  be  situated  so 
that  the  sun  would  shine  on  it  an  hour  or  two  each  day,  and  the  sun- 
loving  plants  placed  on  the  sunny  side  ,  it  would  be  an  improvement. 
Many  of  these  rockeries,  particularly  where  there  is  a  fish-pond,  are 
placed  out  in  the  open  grounds,  and  when  the  sun  shines  brightly,  then 
the  fishes  dart  in  the  shadow  of  the  rocks. 


EOSE  JARS  AND  PILLOWS. 

A  good  way  to  preserve  rose  leaves,  and  one  which  may  be  kept  for 

twenty  years  in  all  its  sweetness,  is  a  scent  or  sweet  jar.     When  the 

rose  season  comes  in,  gather  from  day  to  day  the  leaves  from  all  varieties. 

The  weather  should  be  dry  and  sunny,  and  they  should  be  gathered  as 

21 


322  HOME-MADE  RUGS  AND  CARPETS. 

soon  as  the  dew  has  dried  off.  Strip  the  petals  from  the  calyx,  throw- 
ing out  those  decayed.  When  a  half  peck  has  been  collected  take  a 
porcelain  bowl  and  in  it  place  alternate  layers  of  the  leaves  and  fine 
table  salt,  letting  the  last  layer  be  of  salt,  and  cover  with  a  plate  that 
fits  within  the  bowl.  Let  them  remain  there  for  12  hours,  then  turn, 
stir  and  mix  them  each  day  for  a  week.  When  the  entire  mass  appears 
moist,  add  three  ounces  of  allspice  to  form  the  stock.  Turn  the  mass 
thoroughly  three  more  days,  adding  daily  a  quarter  ounce  each  of  all- 
spice and  ground  cinnamon.  Put  the  mixture  into  the  ornamental  jar 
in  which  it  is  to  be  kept,  and  add  the  following  ingredients,  all  coarsely 
powdered :  Cloves,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  mace,  allspice,  orange  and  lemon 
peel,  anise  seed  and  root  each  one  ounce ;  black  pepper,  one  quarter 
ounce ;  six  grains  of  musk  and  the  same  of  oil  rose-geranium,  lavender, 
rosemary  or  any  essential  oil  preferred.  Violets,  orange  flowers,  myrtle 
leaves,  clove  pinks,  jessamine,  honeysuckle,  mignonette,  heliotrope  and 
lemon  verbena  may  all  be  added  as  they  bloom,  and  from  year  to  year, 
always  preparing  the  rose  leaves  as  directed.  The  jar  must  be  fre- 
quently stirred  and  shaken  and  various  perfumes  and  essential  oils  added 
as  they  are  obtained.  Never  allow  the  mixture  to  freeze,  and  when  it 
becomes  dry,  moisten  with  any  of  the  scented  waters.  Keep  the  jar 
tightly  closed  for  a  month  after  mixing,  then  open  whenever  the  perfume 
is  desired,  and  it  will  soon  permeate  the  entire  house,  filling  it  with  a 
delicious  odor  like  the  perfume  from  a  thousand  flowers. 
^  A  favorite  pillow,  and  one  much  cherished  in  olden  times,  was  a  "  rose 
pillow."  This  is  made  by  filling  a  case  with  dr}^  rose  leaves.  It  is 
fragrant,  and  the  very  thing  for  a  genial  nap  when  headache  is  the 
visitor  to  be  entertained. 


HOME-MADE    RUQS   AND    CARPETS. 

Rugs,  quite  as  comfortable  and  almost  equal  in  appearance  to  the 
much-admired  knitted  Brussels  rugs,  may  be  made  as  follows  :  Take  bur- 
laps, canvas — or  coffee  sacks — and  from  them  cut  a  foundation  the  size 
you  wish  your  rug.  Gather  up  all  the  bits  of  worsted  ravelings,  zephyrs, 
shreds  of  merinoes,  flannel,  etc. — no  matter  what  the  shade  of  color, 
provided  it  is  woolen,  and  cut  the  flannel  or  merinoes  in  strips  as  nar- 
row as  will  hold  together.  Roll  these  strips  up  into  little  tufts  ^r 
bunches  and  tack  firmly  to  the  foundation,  sewing  on  in  alternate  rows 
until  your  foundation  is  covered.  Of  course  a  great  deal  of  taste  may 
be  displayed  in  the  arrangement  of  the  colors. 

Another  way  to  make  a  pretty  rug  is,  by  taking  such  scraps  as  you 
may  have,  in  variety  of  woolen,or  part  woolen  materials,  delaines,  alpacas, 


HOME-MADE  RUGS  AND  CARPETS.  323 

merinoes,  etc. — the  larger  flowered  and  more  "  old-fashioned  "  the  bet- 
ter— cut  in  four  or  five  inch  squares,  fold  three-cornered,  and  with 
needle  and  thread  gather  up  in  form  of  a  shell,  and  sew  on  in  alternate 
rows  on  a  firm  foundation.  These  rugs  are  very  beautiful,  when  made 
entirely  of  scraps  of  the  different  flowered  Tycoon  reps,  that  were  so 
much  in  vogue  for  morning  wrappers  or  dressing-gowns  a  few  years 
ago.  On  a  deep  border  made  of  Tycoon  reps,  the  background  of  grey 
or  brown,  and  the  center  made  of  flowers  and  leaves  made  of  tiny 
shells  of  grey  colors  and  green,  it  is  especially  pretty. 

Still  another  way  to  make  a  pretty  rug  is  as  follows:  Cut  a"  founda- 
tion of  nice  burlaps  the  desired  size,  fringe  to  a  depth  of  four  inches  on 
each  edge,  and  make  a  deep  border  by  sewing  strips  alternately  of  dark 
brown,  deep  blue,  scarlet,  and  very  pale  blue  "  drag  braid."  The  braid 
of  each  color  should  be  one-third  of  an  inch  or  more  apart,  the  outer 
edge  of  each  row  buttonholed  to  the  canvas  with  pale  salmon  zephyr^ 
and  the  inside  edge  with  shaded  green.  Make  an  application  center- 
piece, and  fill  the  intervening  space  by  working  here  and  there  in  zephyr 
of  some  neutral  tint,  stars,  geometrical  figures,  etc. 

One  can  be  crocheted  in  this  way :  Cut  the  rags  the  same  as  for 
carpet,  crochet  a  chain  twelve  stitches  long,  then  crochet  on  both  sides 
of  the  chain  in  double  stitch,  cut  off  the  ball  and  tack  on  another 
color :  crochet  two  rows  around,  cut  off  and  sew  on  another  color,  two 
rows  around,  and  so  on  until  the  rug  is  large  enough.  If  the  bright 
colors  are  mixed  in  with  the  dull  ones,  a  yard  at  a  time,  it  makes  a 
spotted  rug- 
Handsome  rugs  can  be  made  by  using  black  and  red  knitting  yarn, 
and  crocheting,  in  Afghan  stitch,  three  strips  eight  inches  wide  and 
three  feet  long  ;  make  one  black  stripe  and  two  red  ones  ;  when  finished 
take  red  zephyr  and  work  a  vine  in  cross-stitch  embroidery  the  full 
length  of  the  black  stripe ;  use  black  zephyr  and  work  a  border  pattern 
on  each  red  stripe  ;  now  sew  them  all  together  and  line  the  rug  with 
burlaps.  Fringe  the  two  ends  (or  all  around  as  preferred),  using  alter- 
nate colors. 

Drawn  Rugs — Take  an  oblong  piece  of  burlaps  and  fasten  it  to  the 
frame  and  draw  a  line  all  round  the  outside  as  near  the  edge  as  you 
desire  to  work ;  then  draw  a  straight  line  from  the  middle  of  each  side 
to  the  middle  of  each  end,  forming  a  diamond  in  the  center,  and  quarter 
diamonds  at  each  corner,  Outhne  the  outside  of  rug  and  center  piece 
with  three  times  round ;  suitable  colors  would  be  one  scarlet  between 
two  of  black,  or  some  shade  of  yellow  between  dark  blue  or  maroon  ; 
after  that  draw  in  different  colors  in  stripes  round  each  piece  according 
to  taste,  having  the  center  and  corners  correspond  exactly,  or  the  cor- 
ners all  ahke.  'When  the  center  is  filled  up  except  a  small  diamond, 
have  that  some  bright,  pretty  color,  and,  if  shaded,  all  the  better;  the 


321  RUSTIC  WORK. 

corner  pieces  should  correspond  also.  If  attention  is  paid  to  contrast- 
ing colors,  the  result  is  very  fine,  even  if  some  are  rather  dull.  Another 
is  called  "  hit  or  miss."  The  border  is  generally  shaded  or  drawn  in,  in 
stripes  all  round  the  rug,  and  the  center  is  filled  in  with  odds  and  ends 
of  every  color  xirawn  in  straight  across  one  after  another,  without  much 
regard  to  the  arrangement,  though  it  is  best  to  have  the  brightest 
colors,  like  scarlet,  pretty  evenly  distributed.  Any  pieces  will  do,  that 
when  drawn  in  will  make  a  stripe  two  inches  long ;  but  do  not  have  a 
stripe  of  one  color  more  than  six  inches  long  in  one  place.  This  will 
work  in  many  beautiful,  bright  bits  that  are  good  for  nothing  else.  If 
sheared  it  will  look  more  like  velvet,  but  is  pretty  enough  without. 

Rag  Carpets — When  the  rags  are  cut  and  wound,  reel  them,  putting 
fifty  threads  around  the  reel  in  a  skein.  For  yard  wide  carpets  allow 
two  skeins  to  the  yard.  If  the  rags  are  very  fine  allow  a  little  more, 
say  two  or  three  threads  in  each  skein.  The  rule  for  twenty-five  yards, 
is  one  pound  of  cotton  rags  for  one  thread  on  each  side  of  the  stripe. 
Two  pounds  will  make  two  threads  on  each  side,  and  four  threads 
require  four  pounds.  Weigh  the  rags  previous  to  coloring  them,  and 
then  stripe  according  to  weight,  Observe  the  same  rule  for  the  plain 
stripe — if  you  want  thirty  threads  you  will  need  fifteen  pounds.  Wind 
your  own  stripes.  Five  ounces  of  warp  and  a  trifle  over  one  pound  and 
a  half  of  rags  to  the  yard  is  the  rule  for  a  good  firm  rag  carpet. 


RtrSTIC  WORK. 


FOR  HOME  DECORATION. 


The  lichens  that  cover  the  fallen  limbs  of  treees,  old  dilapidated 
fences  and  the  boulders  scattered  here  and  there  through  the  woods, 
have  a  beauty  peculiarly  their  own.  Wooden  brackets  to  which  their 
lavender  and  gray  ruffles  are  glued,  adorn  a  room,  serve  many  useful 
purposes,  and  are  especially  desirable  to  hold  a  pot  of  growing  vines 
that  will  droop  gracefully  over  and  about  them.  The  bracket  may  be 
made  of  half  a  barrel  head  (as  it  will  be  covered'  with  the  lichens)  and 
sections  of  the  hoops  will  do  nicely  for  supports.  Made  in  this  way 
they  are  good  enough  for  a  veranda  and  will  cost  nothing  except  the 
trouble  in  making. 

The  boughs  of  some  old  trees  are  so  crooked  and  curved  as  to  resem- 
ble the  antlers  of  deer,  and  when  covered  with  lichens  and  draped  with 
long  gray  moss  are  fine  ornaments  for  an  entrance  hall  or  library. 
These  are  usually  ancient  hemlocks  or  juniper,  and  are  found  in  damp 
localities.     Many  pretty  things  may  be  made  of  these  mossy  boughs 


FOR  HOME  DECORA  TION,  325 

which  will  enliven  our  homes  wonderfully  during  the  winter — such  as 
stands  for  dried  grasses,  pressed  ferns  and  sumachs,  hanging  baskets 
for  holding  pots  of  Hving  plants,  or  vases  for  dried  leaves  and  flowers ; 
and  easels  are  lovely  made  of  them,  especially  when  supporting  sketches 
of  rural  scenery. 

The  best  way  of  collecting  moss  for  decorating  is  to  pull  in  large 
tufts,  which  on  being  brought  to  the  house  should  be  well  shaken  and 
spread  upon  the  newspapers  for  thenty-four  hours ;  then  it  should  be 
again  thoroughly  shaken  to  free  it  from  bits  and  insect  population.  If 
collected  after  a  thaw  its  colors  are  much  brighter  and  are  retained  for  a 
longer  time.  Moss  is  of  every  hue  between  brown  and  emerald,  shining 
and  golden,  and  deep,  dark,  purple  greens,  and  its  shades  both  contrast 
and  harmonize. 

Plateaus  of  moss  are  lovely,  and  are  made  of  green  moss,  ferns,  etc., 
which  may  be  kept  growing  the  ehtire  winter.  Take  a  large  waiter  and 
in  the  center  lay  a  looking-glass.  Commence  the  border  in  the  white 
sand  and  tiny  pebbles,  gradually  working  in  the  green  moss,  ferns,  vines, 
etc.,  until  the  whole  is  covered  except  the  center  lake  or  glass.  Here 
you  can  display  to  advantage  delicate  sea-shells,  and  a  clump  of  ferns 
is  very  effective  as  a  tiny  island  in  the  center.  Sprinkle  as  often  as 
necessary,  and  you  will  have  a  bright  bit  from  the  woods,  even  when, 
without,  the  snow  is  piled  mountains  high. 

Rustic  twigs  or  fagots  crossed,  with  a  gypsy  kettle  suspended  from 
them ;  smooth  sticks  covered  with  tin-foil  tied  in  the  same  way,  and  a 
little  tray  covered  with  the  same  foil,  fastened  at  the  bottom  inside  the 
sticks,  make  a  pretty  card  basket — the  first  a  pretty  jewel  case.  Indian 
sweet  grass  baskets  or  trays  give  an  odor  of  sweet  clover  to  the  atmos- 
phere— a  thing  to  be  desired  in  the  close,  coal-heated  rooms  that  many 
people  in  the  city  must  breathe  and  live  in. 

Many  have  asked  what  could  be  done  with  the  dead-looking  Southern 
moss  that  so  many  Northerners  are  disappointed  in.  Put  it  in  water 
and  let  it  stand  a  day.  This  takes  the  dryness  and  harshness  out  of  it 
after  its  long  journey  by  mail.  Then  separate  it  so  that  it  is  in  long 
sprays,  each  little  one  hanging  down  by  itself;  drape  lightly  over  a 
chandelier,  letting  the  long  sprays  hang  down ;  or  put  over  a  picture 
frame,  across  the  top,  and  let  it  hang  long  down  the  sides.  In  this  stick 
autumn  leaves  carelessly,  as  if  the  wind  had  blown  them  there.  You 
will  be  surprised  to  see  how  handsome  this  moss  is  when  put  up  in  this 
way.  Moss  brackets  are  made  out  of  thin  pine  boards  with  the  moss 
glued  upon  it. 

Very  handsome  vases  can  be  made  by  taking  stiff  pasteboard,  and 
after  cutting  and  sewing  in  the  form  desired,  cover  with  the  gray  moss 
that  grows  on  the  roots  of  trees ;  if  possible,  trim  the  edges  with  small 
shells ;  then  take  long  sprays  of  Southern  moss,  and  to  make  it  look 


326  RUSTIC  WORK. 

more  finished,  put  a  piece  of  stiff  card-board  in  the  vase;  train  up 
the  moss  so  it  covers  the  card-board,  and  then  let  the  ends  drop  down 
to  the  sides  of  the  vase.  After  this  is  done,  sprinkle  all  thoroughly 
with  glue  water,  and  then  with  diamond  dust. 

The  large  fir  cones  set  upright  in  a  bed  of  moss,  keeping  the  moss 
constantly  wet  and  the  cones  sprinkled  with  grass  seed,  makes  a  beau- 
tiful spot  of  verdure  when  the  snow  is  flying  without.  A  basket  of 
them  may  be  arranged  in  the  same  way. 

A  gypsy  kettle  is  a  pretty  ornament.  Take  a  small  three-sided  piece 
of  wood,  insert  three  small  round  sticks,  criss-cross  them  at  the  top 
and  fasten ;  then  take  a  small  toy  kettle  and  fasten  to  the  top  by  a  wire, 
any  length  you  wish ;  cover  the  kettle  and  sticks  with  silver  or  gold 
foil ;  place  a  few  sticks  under  the  kettle  to  represent  wood,  and  cover 
with  the  same. 

Birch  bark  and  rustic  twigs  make  a.,  pretty  wall  ornament  in  the  shape 
of  a  portfolio  or  envelope,  with  the  sides  sloped  towards  the  bottom- 
that  is,  narrower  at  the  top.  This,  filled  with  ferns  or  leaves,  is  both 
rustic  and  uncommon.  There  are  many  things  birch  bark  may  be  used 
for ;  it  is  a  good  material  to  paint  on,  and  can  be  made  inio  tiny  books 
and  painted  in  fern  designs  or  tiny  shells;  anything  that  is  "woodsey  " 
looking  is  pretty  on  birch  bark.  The  leaves  of  the  book  may  be  put 
between  flat-folding  shells  and  tied  in  with  ribbon.  A  bird's  nest,  a 
stump  or  an  old  log  covered  with  lichens,  mosses,  sea  weed  are  good 
subjects. 

CIGAR  ASH  BOWL. 

Materials  :  A  piece  of  dark  colored  wood  six  inches  in  length  and  five 
inches  in  width,  cones,  acorns,  etc.,  virgin  cork,  a  small  cocoanut  cut  in 
half,  tin  foil,  glue,  copal  varnish. 

The  foundation  must  be  a  piece  of  oak  or  mahogany,  thin  and  light. 
To  this  a  sort  of  framework  of  four  sticks  of  wood  with  the  bark  on,  is 
placed  at  the  edge  all  round.  The  half  cocoanut  is  neatly  lined  with 
tin-foil,  and  a  stick  of  wood  split  in  half,  also  covered  with  foil,  is  glued 
across  the  top.  Then  the  cork,  cones,  acorns  and  beechnuts  must  be 
tastefully  glued  on  the  foundation  to  form  a  pretty  combination.  The 
cocoanut  shell  must  be  glued  to  the  center  of  the  foundation.  The 
virgin  cork  will  furnish  a  rocky  looking  background  for  the  cone  work. 
If  the  cork  cannot  be  obtained  use  knotty  pieces  of  wood.  When  all 
is  arranged  and  the  glue  is  thoroughly  hardened,  the  whole  ornament  is 
brushed  over  with  varnish. 

FERNS  AND  FLOWER  STANDS. 

A  branchy  little  tree  is  necessary  and  the  trunk  must  be  four  inches 
in  diameter.     Now  saw  it  off  smoothly  about  a  foot  from  the  first  limb  ; 


THE  ART  OF  MODELING.  32T 

next  saw  all  the  limbs  the  right  length  and  in  such  a  manner  as  to  make 
them  all  stand  firmly  upon  any  level  surface — inverted,  of  course.  Care 
must  be  taken  to  cause  the  whole  weight  to  be  equally  shared  by  all 
the  branches,  or  the  stand  will  tilt  over.  Next  have  a  nice  smooth 
board,  eighteen  inches  square,  nailed  strongly  on  the  top  of  the  trunk, 
which  now  gives  it  the  appearance  of  a  rustic  table  ;  a  box  also  eighteen 
inches  at  the  base  and  larger  at  the  top,  and  as  deep  as  you  wish,  is 
then  placed  on  the  stand;  all  may  now  be  painted  dark  brown  or  green, 
or  a  bright  red,  to  imitate  a  huge  branch  of  coral ;  in  any  case,  it  may 
receive  two  coats  of  varnish,  at  least,  so  as  to  more  fully  resist  the 
action  of  the  weather;  now  decorate  neatly  with  Southern  moss,  and 
plant  your  other  woodland  beauties  in  the  box,  and  you  have  an  invalu- 
able addition  to  the  summer-house  or  some  other  cosy  nook.  A  suc- 
cessful idea  is  to  place  the  stand  in  a  vine-clad  porch,  with  the  basket 
suspended  directly  over  it ;  a  rustic  tripod  can  be  made  according  to 
above  directions,  and  is  more  easily  obtained  by  many. 

A  smaller  rustic  stand  can  be  made  by  taking  three  hickory  poles  the 
required  length,  bend  in  the  form  desired,  and  fasten  in  the  center; 
cover  these  with  bits  of  moss,  gray  and  green,  fastening  plenty  of  the 
Southern  moss  where  the  sticks  cross  each  other  and  fasten,  letting  it 
hang  down  and  a  portion  of  it  twining  about  the  poles,  but  not  enough 
to  hide  the  other  kinds  of  moss.  Any  kind  of  a  dish  can  be  set  in  the 
top,  the  outside  covered  with  moss,  and  some  nice  plant  inserted,  and 
if  the  dish  is  large  enough,  put  a  few  ferns  about  the  center  edge. 

THE  ART  OF  MODELING. 

Given  "the  artistic  talent,"  the  ingredients  required  are  clay,  wax, 
plaster  of  Paris,  pipeclay,  whiting,  putty,  large  and  small  cinders,  sand 
of  different  colors,  powdered  fluor-spar,  glass,  oyster-shells,  brick,  slate, 
gums  tragacanth,  arabic  and  acacia,  white  and  brown  paper,  card  and 
millboard,  starch,  cork  sheets  and  rasping;  old  bottle  corks,  leather 
chips,  gutta  percha,  wood,  paints,  oils,  varnishes,  and  water;  moss, 
lichens,  ferns,  and  grass ;  talcs,  window  and  looking  glass,  muslin,  net, 
chenille,  carded  wool,  tow,  wire,  hay  and  straw,  glue  and  cement. 

The  tools  are  brushes  of  various  kinds ;  three  or  four  brad-awls,  a 
sharp  penknife,  chisels,  hammer,  and  punches,  scissors  and  pencils. 

Ancient  and  modern  cities,  cathedrals,  monuments  and  caves  may 
be  modeled  in  wood,  cork,  starch,  paste,  cinders,  etc.,  on  brown  paper 
soaked  in  glue.  When  nearly  dry  they  should  be  sprinkled  with  sand, 
powdered  brick,  slate,  chopped  hchens  and  moss,  from  a  coarse  pepper 
box,  the  various  parts  being  then  touched  up  with  oil,  water  or  varnish 
colors. 

Form  trees,  if  necessary,  of  wire  covered  with  brown  paper  and  moss 
glued  on.     When  a  cave  is  constructed  in  this  way  on  a  large  scale,  and 


328  RUSTIC  WORK. 

the  interior  is  sprinkled  with  powdered  fluor-spar  or  glass,  the  effect 
when  lit  up  by  candle-light  at  night  is  really  fine.  Stalactites  may  be 
represented  by  rough  pieces  of  wood  smeared  with  glue'  and  sprinkled 
thickly  with  the  powdered  fluor-spar  or  glass. 

To  imitate  pools  of  water,  a  bit  of  looking-glass  may  be  glued  on  th& 
stand  or  base,  the  edges  concealed  by  paper  glued  on  and  covered  with 
sand,  or  a  border  of  chopped  moss  to  imitate  grass. 

In  constructing  models  of  cork,  trees  should  be  formed  by  transfixing 
short  pieces  of  chenille  with  fine  wire  and  sticking  them  into  the  cork. 

Starch  paste,  used  in  nearly  all  forms  of  modeling,  is  made  by  soak- 
ing gum  tragacanth  in  water ;  when  soft,  mix  in  powdered  starch  to  the 
proper  consistence ;  a  little  powdered  white  sugar  improves  it.  This  is 
the  composition  used  by  confectioners  for  modehng  the  various  orna- 
ments on  cakes,  etc. 

Modeling  with  clay,  plaster  of  Paris,  wax,  and  other  kindred  material,. 
requires  a  pattern,  such  as  a  statue,  a  fruit,  or  flower. 

If  the  model  is  desired  to  be  white  as  a  church,  cross,  statue,  or 
fence,  coat  with  thin  plaster  and  dust  with  burnt  alum  and  frosting. 

For  imitating  stone,  cover  with  the  composition  for  sanding  roofs,  and 
dress  with  crushed  rock  or  colored  sands. 

RURAL  PICTURES. 

Procure  a  wooden  box  of  convenient  size ;  eighteen  inches  long,. 
twelve  and  one-half  inches  in  width  and  nine  one-half  inches  in  depth 
is  a  good  size.  Turn  it  on  its  side,  and  line  it  with  pale  blue  tissue 
paper,  first  the  sides,  then  the  top  and  back,  all  in  one  piece.  Do  not 
press  it  into  the  corners,  but  let  it  be  loose  or  "  rounding."  Mucilage 
i5  best  for  putting  it  on. 

For  clouds  use,  in  the  dark  parts,  colored  cotton,  pulled  into  loose,, 
feathery  pieces.  The  soft  white  clouds,  of  white  cotton,  pulled  very 
thin,  and  put  on  with  the  least  touch  of  paste. 

For  a  foundation  use  fine  shavings,  such  as  confectioners  use  to  pack 
sugar  toys  in  ,  although  sea-grass,  moss,  hair,  or  anything  of  that  kind, 
will  do  as  well.  Pile  it  into  the  box  until  you  have  it  about  three  inches 
high  in  front,  getting  higher  toward  the  back,  until  it  is  half  way  up  the 
box.  Cover  this  with  common  brown  wrapping  paper,  gluing  it  dowrk 
on  every  side  so  that  none  of  the  shavings  can  escape.  By  leaving  the 
front  to  be  fastened  down  last,  you  can  regulate  it  by  taking  out  a  little 
in  one  place,  and  putting  it  in  another.  Press  down  the  brown  paper  in 
places  to  form  an  uneven  surface.  Cover  this  with  moss  which  has 
previously  been  dried,  leaving  uncovered  any  space  where  you  wish 
water  to  appear. 

To  form  distant  mountains,  cut  cardboard  in  pointed  pieces,  shading 
with  small,  thin  pieces  of  bark. 


COTTAGES  AND  LANDSCAPES,  329 

Distant  hills  of  light  bark.  • 

Forests  of  fern-fronds. 

Water  is  formed  of  light  blue  tissue  paper,  crushed  very  much  in 
the  hand  and  partly  straightened  out.  Paint  with  mucilage,  place  on 
it  bits  of  white  and  blue  flake  frosting,  and  dust  with  diamond  frosting. 
If  a  large  sheet  of  water  is  desired,  such  as  a  distant  view  of  the  ocean, 
it  must  be  placed  at  the  back  of  the  box.  Ships  can  be  placed  upon  it ; 
for  these,  scrap  pictures  are  nicer  than  anything  you  can  make.  They 
should  be  "  stumped  out,"  that  is  without  any  margin.  Little  sail  boats 
are  made  of  tiny  pieces  of  cork  and  white  paper  sails. 

A  stream  is  made  of  a  narrow  strip  of  blue  paper,  dusted  with  frost- 
ing. It  can  flow  from  distant  mountains,  widening  and  becoming  more 
distinct  as  it  comes  nearer,  and  where  it  appears  to  flow  over  the  rocks 
in  cascades,  a  little  plaster  gives  it  a  foamy  appearance.  A  little  rustic 
bridge  can  cross  the  stream  in  the  foreground.  It  is  made  of  a  piece  of 
bark  with  a  hand-rail  of  spruce. 

You  can  make  a  ruined  stone  wall  of  putty,  marked  off  into  irregular 
squares  like  stone  ;  paint  with  glue,  and  dast  with  coarse  sand.  Cinders 
are  also  a  most  effective  material,  especially  the  rough  porous  blocks, 
from  anthracite  coal.  Select  small  ones,  clean  them  from  dirt,  and 
build  up  with  glue. 

After  all  is  finished,  paint  with  thick  mucilage  of  white  glue,  and  dust 
with  sand,  powdered  bricks,  slate,  lichens,  and  moss,  using  coarse  pieces, 
in  some  parts,  and  fine  in  others.  Touch  certain  parts  with  gum  water 
and  powder  colors. 

German  dyed  moss  is  pretty  for  this  work,  and  can  be  bought  in 
packages,  green,  red,  and  brown,  and  is  nice  to  use  with  our  native 
mosses ;  but  is  too  vivid  in  color  to  use  alone. 

COTTAGES  AND  LANDSCAPES. 

It  will  be  best  to  begin  with  only  simple  designs,  and  after  some 
practice  you  can  attempt  more  elaborate  ones.  A  rustic  cottage  can  be 
made  of  thin,  dark  colored  card-boards ;  the  front  and  back  should  be 
about  two  inches  in  width,  th^  sides  one  inch;  mark  it  out  with  a  lead 
pencil  all  in  one  piece,  sloping  the  front  and  back  pieces  for  the  roof. 

Mark  out  a  door  in  the  center  of  the  front  with  a  window  on  each 
side ;  cut  the  windows  entirely  out  and  glue  in  the  space  white  cape  net, 
and  behind  the  net  white  mica  or  thin  glass;  cut  the  door  entirely 
through  on  one  side  and  on  top,  and  on  the  other  side  cut  it  half  through 
from  the  inside,  enough  to  bend  it  outward,  so  that  it  will  appear  a  little 
way  open ;  cut  the  corners  of  the  house  also  half  through  the  card  and 
bend  it  round,  making  the  seam  come  in  the  back. 

Cut  the  roof  of  proper  size,  glue  it  on,  and  taking  the  tiny  scales 
of  a  very  small  cone,  glue  them  on  in  neat  rows  until  the  roof  is  covered  ; 


330  SCRAP  BOOKS. 

paint  the  rest  of  the  cottage  with  glue,  and  dust  with  coarse  sand ;  glue 
on  the  chimney  and  the  cottage  is  finished.  You  can  glue  moss  on  it 
to  imitate  vines  if  you  wish.  If  a  log  cabin  is  desired,  glue  on  tiny 
twigs  instead  of  using  the  sand. 

Very  pretty  cottages  and  villas  can  be  made  of  white  Bristol  board 
with  verandas  and  Venetian  blinds,  and  picket  fences  can  easily  be  cut 
from  it.  Castles  can  be  formed  of  cigar  box  lids ;  for  turrets,  use  the 
long  round  boxes,  such  as  druggists  use  for  adhesive  plaster ;  cut  the 
tracery  of  the  windov/s  carefully  out  and  glue  in  red  mica,  which  will 
be  a  beautiful  imitation  of  stained  glass. 

If  for  a  bracket,  lay  out  the  grounds  by  using  the  greenest  moss  for 
grass  plats ;  sand  the  walks  and  border  with  pebbles.  On  one  side  put 
a  spreading  tree,  with  rustic  tea-table  and  chairs  under  it ;  on  the  other 
an  old-fashioned  well  and  sweep,  with  the  "  old  oaken  bucket,"  etc. 

Build  a  rustic  fence  two  inches  high  around  the  edge  of  the  bracket, 
making  a  gate  in  the  center. 

Winter  pictures  are  lovely  as  companion  pictures  to  the  summer 
scenes ;  in  these  the  clouds  must  be  made  of  dark  stone  colored  cotton 
to  imitate  the  dull  leaden  hue  of  a  winter  sky.  Snow  is  formed  of  fine 
French  plaster  mixed  with  diamond  frosting.  All  trees  and  shrubs 
must  be  crystalized  with  a  solution  of  alum ;  thread  also  crystalized 
will  form  pretty  icicles.  Ice  can  be  formed  by  placing  a  piece  of  clear 
glass  over  light  blue  paper,  and  gumming  on  pieces  of  blue  and  white 
flake  frosting.  Little  scrap  figures  in  the  act  of  skating  or  sleighing 
will  be  suitable  for  this  work. 

It  will  be  best  for  the  first  piece  of  work  to  copy  from  some  pretty 
picture,  but  after  some  practice  any  favorite  song  or  poem  may  be  illus- 
trated. A  lovely  bit  of  landscape  seen  in  the  "long  ago."  Or  those 
who  are  far  away  from  the  home  of  their  childhood  can  copy  it  faith- 
fully from  memory,  just  as  they  remember  to  have  seen  it  last.  When 
the  picture  is  finished,  a  neat  frame  with  glass  must  be  fitted  to  the  box. 
A  rustic  frame  is  most  suitable. 


SCRAP   BOOKS. 

FOR  PICTURES  AND  PAINTINGS. 

These  can  be  made  of  linen  or  cambric  leaves,  sewed  between  heavy 
pasteboard  covers,  and  ornamented  in  any  way  to  please  the  fancy. 
The  edges  of  the  leaves  should  be  pinked  with  a  ver}'  small  pinking- 
iron.  In  these  can  be  fastened  sketches,  wood-cuts  from  papers, 
engravings,  embossed  pictures,  decalcomanie  or  scrap-book  pictures. 


FA  MIL  V  REGIS  TERS.  33 1 

Old  ledgers  make  very  good  ones  when  only  wood-cuts  or  common  pic- 
tures are  used. 

It  is  pleasant  to  have  a  dainty  receptacle  for  one's  belongings,  and 
those  who  are  at  all  proficient  in  hand  painting  can  have  a  fine  oppor- 
tunity to  exercise  their  skill  and  taste.  There  are  many  pretty  ways  for 
making  them  :  Take  two  thin,  beveled  boards,  twenty-seven  by  eigh- 
teen, sandpaper  them  to  perfect  smoothness  and  paint  them  black ;  put 
near  the  edge  a  border  of  small  ivy  leaves  (first  pressed  or  ironed) 
gummed  on  as  flat  as  possible,  and  on  the  raised  part  or  center  fasten 
firmly  a  spray  of  bright-colored  autumn  leaves.  This  must  then  be 
varnished  two  or  three  times,  which  will  make  a  perfectly  smooth  sur- 
face ;  holes  must  be  bored  for  ribbons  to  tie  the  back  and  front.  In 
lieu  of  the  leaves  may  be  used  bright  scrap  borders,  and  pictures  for 
the  center.  This  will  make  a  handsome,  yet  economical,  portfolio  for 
either  pictures  or  music.  There  are  so  many  designs,  borders  and  pic- 
tures now  for  sale,  that  when  one  has  any  artistic  taste  or  can  blend 
colors  suitably,  they  can  give  almost  the  effect  of  painting. 

Heavy  pasteboard  can  be  covered  with  gray  crash  toweling,  mummy 
cloth  or  Java  canvas,  bound  around  the  edges  with  leather,  braid 
or  ribbon.  Monograms,  initials,  grotesque  or  fancy  patterns,  can  be 
worked  in  the  center,  or  flowers  or  figures  may  be  appliqued  on.  The 
edges  may  in  this  case  be  bound  with  velvet,  and  a  border  of  it 
feather-stitched  near  the  edge.  The  inside  and  pockets  may  be  made 
of  corresponding  colors  in  serviceable  material — of  scarlet  worsted  can- 
vas, worked  in  a  border  of  gold  flosselle,  and  an  initial  of  the  saipe  gold 
color  worked  in  the  center,  edges  bound  with  black  velvet,  pockets  and 
linings  of  scarlet  merino,  and  the  backs  tied  with  gold  cord  and  tassels. 
Enameled  cloth  makes  nice  portfolios,  and  gray  and  reddish  brown 
form  a  pretty  combination  by  cutting  out  the  gray  in  some  pretty 
design,  and  showing  the  scarlet  beneath.  White  holly  wood  or  ebony 
cut  out  in  fret-work  designs  and  lined  with  velvet,  makes  an  elegant 
receptacle  for  small  paintings  and  sketches.  If  suitable  boards  can  be 
obtained  and  painted  a  dead,  heavy  white,  relieved  on  the  corners  by 
gilding,  and  ornamented  with  delicate  French  pictures,  the  whole  highly 
varnished  until  it  looks  like  enameling,  and  lined  with  silk,  it  will  be 
found  a  very  desirable  parlor  ornament. 

FAMILY  REGISTERS. 

Nearly  all  have  their  portfolios  and  scrap-books,  but  how  many  of  us 
have  a  family  register  ?  The  family  chronicles  have  mostly  been  con- 
fined to  the  mere  entry  of  the  births,  marriages  and  deaths  of  one  sec- 
tion of  a  family  only,  within  the  covers  of  a  family  Bible.  But  the  idea 
is  to  keep,  not  only  these  events,  but  every  item  of  interest  and  import- 
ance in  the  history  of  the  whole  family  connection. 


332  SEA-  WEED  SPECIMENS. 

This  could  be  kept  by  one  branch  of  the  family  with  but  little  trouble^. 
if  all,  when  they  found  anything  interesting,  would  but  ;send  it  on  to  the 
keeper  of  the  book.  Such  a  book,  when  filled,  would  be  extremely 
interesting  to  be  handed  down  as  an  heirloom  from  one  generation  to 
another. 

Has  it  never  occurred  to  you,  that  as  one  by  one  our  friends  and 
relatives  pass  away,  but  little  is  remembered  of  their  past  lives  and  his- 
tories. 

The  keeping  of  such  family  registers  would  bring  before  the  minds  of 
the  survivors  of  a  family  the  events  of  deepest  interest  in  their  family's, 
history — events  that  would  point  great  lessons,  and  prepare  the  feet  of 
the  traveler  still  journeying  through  life,  to  tread  more  securely ;  to 
beware  the  rough  places  trod  by  his  ancestors,  and  perhaps  serve  as  an 
incentive  to  climb  still  higher.  The  leaves  could  be  interspersed  with 
family  pictures,  sketches  and  souvenirs  of  the  family  history. 


SEA-WEED  SPECIMENS. 

PREPARING  AND  MOUNTING  THEM. 

In  order  to  preserve  anything  of  their  natural  beauty,  great  care  is 
requisite.  The  specimens  must  be  taken  from  the  water,  or  from  the 
beach  where  the  tide  may  have  left  them,  as  fresh  as  possible,  before 
they  have  been  dashed  about  much  by  the  waves ;  or  water-soaked,  by 
repeated  wetting  and  drying  ;  or  eaten  into  holes  by  shrimps  and  small 
Crustacea  of  the  shore.  The  water  should  be  gently,  but  firmly, 
squeezed  from  them,  and  they  should  then  be  wrapped  in  cloths  pro- 
vided for  the  purpose.  In  this  state  they  may  be  carried  home,  where 
they  may  immediately  be  spread,  or  if  desirable,  taken  out  and  dried,  in 
which  state  they  will  keep  for  a  long  time  for  future  treatment. 

When  they  are  to  be  spread,  they  must  be  placed  in  a  somewhat  deep 
dish,  half  full  of  water,  in  which  they  can  be  thoroughly  cleared  of  sand 
and  all  adhering  substances,  and  prepared  for  spreading.  They  are 
then  to  be  transferred  to  a  shallow  plate  large  enough  to  spread  them 
in,  the  stems  disentangled,  and  the  whole  plant  placed  in  the  position 
which  best  displays  its  peculiar  structure  or  its  points  of  interest.  It  is 
best  to  use  salt  water  for  these  purposes,  if  it  can  be  had,  since  fresh 
water  sometimes  has  an  injurious  effect  upon  them.  If,  however, 
salt  water  is  not  at  hand,  the  fresh  will  answer  for  all  ordinary 
demands.  Some  of  the  most  delicate  algae  are  said  to  be  not  only 
injured,  but  broken  up  and  dissolved  by  it;  but  none  of  the  ordinary 
species  have  their  beauty  in  any  degree  impaired  by  being  spread  in 
fresh  water,  as  is  proven  by  long  experience. 


PREPARING  AND  MOUNTING  THEM,  333 

When  duly  spread,  all  redundant  or  interfering  branches  should  be 
lopped  off,  as  the  growth  is  sometimes  very  thick,  and  a  branch  cannot 
always  be  made  to  lie  flat  in  its  place.  When  this  has  been  done,  and 
the  best  shape  given  to  the  plant,  it  is  to  be  transferred  to  paper.  For 
this  purpose,  pieces  of  firm  drawing  paper,  not  too  thick,  must  be  pro- 
vided. It  is  best  to  have  them  cut  to  suitable  sizes,  and  in  readiness  for 
use.  A  paper  of  sufficient  size  to  take  the  whole  plant,  and  to  have  a 
suitable  margin,  is  next  to  be  quielly  slipped  under  the  specimen  as  it 
lies  expanded  in  the  water,  and  it  may  then  be  lifted  by  one  end  gently 
and  carefully  from  the  dish.  Care  must  be  taken  that  the  branches,  of 
which  the  lower  and  larger  will  generally  come  first,  are  in  place  on  the 
paper  as  it  leaves  the  water,  and  each  of  the  others  as  its  turn  comes, 
till  the  whole  specimen  is  displayed  upon  the  paper  very  nearly  as  it 
was  when  in  the  water.  If  the  parts  of  the  specimen  fall  over  one 
another  in  leaving  the  water,  they  may  be  restored  to  their  positions  by 
the  aid  of  a  camel's  hair  pencil  and  a  smooth  little  point  of  wood  or 
bone.  After  this  comes  a  still  more  critical  piece  of  work.  The  speci- 
men, if  a  delicate  one,  will  have  the  fringes  of  fine  fibres,  which  look  so 
beautiful  in  the  water,  all  run  together  upon  the  paper  in  an  undis- 
tinguishable  mass,  along  the  branch.  These  must  now  be  picked  out 
with  a  needle,  while  a  little  water  remains  upon  the  paper  to  facihtate 
the  movement  of  them.  At  length,  the  whole  specimen,  with  all  its 
branches  in  place,  all  its  delicate  structure  brought  to  view,  and  all  its 
fine  fringes  displayed,  or,  if  a  full  leaf,  with  its  edges  carefully  laid  in 
plaits,  has  received  its  last  touches  from  some  light  and  tasteful  hand, 
and  is  ready  for  preservation.  It  may  then  be  placed  upon  a  sloping 
surface  to  drain  off  the  superfluous  water  before  it  is  placed  in  the 
press. 

When  sufficiently  free  from  moisture,  a  number  of  specimens — the 
gathering,  perhaps,  of  a  single  day — may  be  pressed  at  once.  The  first 
is  to  be  placed  upon  a  flat  board  of  convenient  size,  a  piece  of  muslin 
spread  smoothly  over  it,  two  or  three  thicknesses  of  absorbing  paper, 
smoothly  laid  above  and  below  it ;  another  specimen  is  then  to  be 
placed  above  it,  to  be  followed  by  the  same  round  of  muslin  and  paper — 
till  all  have  been  put  in  place.  The  use  of  the  muslin  is  to  prevent  the 
specimen  from  adhering  to  the  paper  above  it,  in  which  case  it  would 
probably  be  torn  to  pieces  when  the  covering  paper  is  removed. 

The  whole  mass  should  then  be  covered  with  another  smooth  and 
strong  board  and  subjected  to  heavy  pressure.  After  two  or  three 
days  the  specimens  should  be  examined,  dry  cloths  spread  over  them, 
and  all  wrinkles  in  the  paper,  so  far  as  possible  be  removed,  and  the 
plants  returned  to  the  press  till  the  papers  are  thoroughly  dry ;  since,  if 
removed  from  it  while  yet  damp,  they  will  dry  irregularly,  and  cannot 
again  be  readily  smoothed.  On  each  specimen,  the  name,  date  and 
locality  should  be  written. 


334  SEA-  WEED  SPECIMENS,' 

There  are  various  ways  of  arranging  sea- weed.  You  may  gum  the 
specimens  in  a  scrap-book,  or  insert  them  in  by  cutting  four  shts  in  the 
page  at  each  corner.  They  look  well  arranged  gracefully  around  pho- 
tographs, especially  if  small  shells  are  added.  This  should  be  encircled 
by  a  gilt  frame  and  a  glass  placed  over  the  picture  to  preserve  it.  An 
album  of  views  of  seaside  resorts  is  very  pretty  when  each  picture  is 
set  in  a  frame  of  sea-weeds.  Paper  lamp  shades  look  pretty  orna- 
mented with  sea-weeds  gummed  in  the  divisions. 

To  preserve  the  sea-weed,  especially  the  coarser  kinds,  after  they  are 
cleaned  and  pressed,  brush  them  over  with  spirits  of  turpentine,  in 
which  two  or  three  lumps  of  gum  mastic  have  been  dissolved  by  shaking 
in  a  warm  place ;  two-thirds  of  a  small  phial  is  the  proper  proportion. 

FOR  ALBUMS,  LYp.ES  AND  CROSSES. 

Materials  :  Two  scallop  shells,  half  a  yard  of  ribbon,  No.  4,  eight  tiny 
colored  pictures,  moss  and  white  note  paper.  Drill  small  holes  in  the 
shells  to  fasten  them  together.  Cut  the  paper  in  leaves,  the  size  of  the 
shells  ;  notch  the  edges.  Put  a  picture  on  one  upper  corner  of  each  leaf. 
Paste  a  different  kind  on  each  leaf.  To  fasten  the  leaves  in  the  shells, 
put  the  ribbon  across  the  center  and  tie  in  a  bow  at  the  back  of  the  shells. 

A  lyre  fashioned  of  sea-moss  makes  a  lovely  ornament  for  a  bracket 
or  the  wall,  and  is  made  in  this  way :  Take  a  piece  of  white  silk  and 
cover  a  square  of  pasteboard  as  large  as  you  wish  the  ornament  to  be. 
Break  a  knitting  needle  in  two  pieces  :  with  a  file  smooth  the  broken 
end  of  one  piece,  and  place  it  horizontally  across  the  board,  a  little 
above  the  center.  Now  take  five  short  knitting  needles,  place  them 
perpendicularly  across  the  Doard,  about  one-eighth  of  an  inch  apart, 
allowing  the  upper  parts  to  extend  one  inch  above  the  horizontal 
needle,  and  fasten  to  the  board  with  a  stitch  at  the  top  and  bottom  of 
each  needle  or  with  a  little  mucilage.  This  forms  the  cross-bar  and 
strings  of  the  lyre.  For  the  frame,  arrange  the  moss  around  the 
strings  in  form  of  a  lyre.  Put  the  darkest  mosses  at  the  bottom,  close 
together,  and  shade  ofT  to  the  lightest  colors  as  you  near  the  top.  Set 
this  in  a  deep  frame,  such  as  are  used  for  wax  flowers,  cover  with  glass, 
and  you  will  have  an  ornament  rare  and  beautiful.  In  forming  the  lyre 
it  is  not  necessary  to  float  the  weed  in  water,  as  it  would  not  be  handled 
as  the  album  would.  A  little  mucilage  fastening  it  to  the  board  here 
and  there  will  do  as  well.  Gold-colored  silk  is  sometimes  used  instead 
of  the  needles.  It  is  not  so  much  trouble,  and  is  very  pretty.  Crosses, 
wreaths  and  many  other  fancy  knickknacks  may  be  made  on  these 
same  principles,  according  to  the  taste  of  the  person. 

Sea-weed  and  mosses  can  be  made  into  pictures  for  albums  or  for 
framing,  by  drawing  a  cross,  and  covering  it  with  white  glue ;  then 
sprinkling  on  it  fine  pieces  of  pearl  and  grouping  mosses  at  the  bottom 
for  a  base. 


SHELLS.  335 


SHELLS. 

COLORING  AND  ETCHING. 

Shells  may  be  cleaned  by  pouring  over  them  strong  lye,  made  by 
boiling  ashes  and  allowing  it  to  settle.  Pour  the  lye  over  the  shells 
and  boil  them  six  or  seven  hours^  or  longer,  if  they  are  large ;  then  soak 
and  w^ash  often  in  fresh  water. 

To  color  shells :  Dissolve  a  little  lac  dye  in  a  solution  of  chloride  of 
tin,  and,  having  made  the  shells  thoroughly  clean,  dip  them  in  this  prep- 
aration until  they  are  of  the  desired  color.  The  dye  should  be  just 
boiled  and  then  allowed  to  stand  and  settle. 

The  etching  of  shells  is  done  by  means  of  acids.  The  parts  not  to 
be  acted  upon  must  be  protected  by  a  so-called  etching  ground,  which 
consists  of  a  thin  layer  of  varnish  blackened  in  a  flame,  so  as  to  see 
plainly  the  figures  afterward  drawn  out.  Be  careful,  when  doing  this, 
to  make  a  clear  drawing  or  writing,  in  which  the  shell  is  exposed  at  the 
bottom  of  every  line,  as  any  remaining  varnish  would  protect  those 
parts,  and  the  writing  would  not  be  brought  out.  The  acid,  either 
strong  acetic,  diluted  nitric,  or  muriatic,  is  then  applied,  and,  when  its 
action  is  sufficient,  it  is  washed  off  with  water ;  the  varnish  is  rubbed  off 
with  turpentine  or  alcohol,  when .  the  drawing  or  lettering  will  appear 
and  look  as  if  cut  in  with  an  engraver's  tool.  The  design  may  also  be 
drawn  with  varnish  on  the  shell  by  means  of  a  fine  brush ;  then  the 
acid  will  dissolve  the  surface  around  the  lines  drawn,  and  the  writing 
will  appear  in  relief,  the  letters  being  elevated  in  place  of  being  sunk  in, 
as  by  the  former  process.  The  latter  is  the  most  common  way  in  which 
these  shells  are  treated.  This  method  is  applied  to  many  other  objects  ; 
all  that  is  wanted  being  a  liquid  dissolving  the  material  to  be  acted 
upon,  with  a  varnish  to  protect  some  parts  from  its  action. 

SHELL  FLOWERS. 

Groups  of  artificial  flowers  may  be  made  with  shells  of  a  common 
kind.  Some  are  made  simply  of  white,  buff,  or  pink  tinted  shells  of 
the  common  kind,  so  abundant  on  many  coasts,  and  which  resemble 
somewhat  the  nails  of  the  fingers.  These  shells  can  also  be  purchased 
in  any  quantity,  at  the  stores  where  articles  for  fancy  work  are  sold. 
Other  shells  are  painted  entirely,  or  in  stripes. 

Most  of  the  flowers  are  made  by  means  of  a  cement  in  the  first  place. 
Melt  to  a  moderate  consistency  a  quantity  of  gum  tragacanth  and  a 
little  alum  ;  mix  this  into  a  thick  paste  with  plaster  of  Paris  and  a  small 
piece  of  sugar  of  lead.     Make  a  ball  of  this  the  shape  of  an  orange — 


336  SHELLS. 

that  is,  a  flattened  round — and  about  a  third  the  size  of  an  orange. 
Let  this  nearly  dry  ;  then  take  a  stiff,  strong  wire,  long  enough  for  a 
flower  stem,  wind  it  round  with  a  strip  of  green  tissue  paper,  half  an 
inch  wide  ;  thrust  it  into  the  ball  of  cement  upon  which  the  flower  is  to 
be  constructed ;  place  the  wire  with  the  cement  at  the  top  in  a  tumbler 
or  vase  long  enough  to  hold  it  comfortably,  first  taking  a  stout  card, 
larger  than  the  mouth  of  the  bottle  or  vase,  with  a  hole  cut  in  it  just  the 
size  to  admit  the  wire  stem  easily,  and  placing  it  over  the  tumbler. 
This  keeps  the  work  steady. 

Set  in  the  shells  according  to  the  flower  to  be  represented,  and  let 
it  remain  untouched  until  the  flower  is  quite  dry.  Then  take  a  few 
short  leaves  with  the  stalks  cut  off  and  wires  removed,  and  gum  them 
to  the  back  of  the  flower  so  that  they  may  project  all  around  partially. 

When  a  sufficient  number  of  flowers  are  made,  take  a  pretty  wicker 
basket,  line  it  with  green  tissue  paper  and  fill  it  with  the  cement.  When 
this  is  nearly  dry,  stick  the  flowers  in  it,  and  place  sufficient  leaves  about 
them.  The  basket  should  be  so  well  filled  as  to  entirely  conceal  the 
cement.  Do  not  move  it  until  the  cement  is  quite  dry.  The  leaves 
used  are  the  ordinary  muslin  ones,  such  as  are  employed  for  bonnets. 

To  make  a  rose,  dip  the  shells  into  a  strong  mixture  of  powdered 
carmine  and  liquid  gum.  Let  them  dry.  They  ought  to  be  of  one  uni- 
form deep  crimson.  Put  three  together  in  the  center  of  the  cement, 
folded  one  over  another  as  closely  as  possible,  to  form  the  heart.  Place 
a  row  around  these,  also  closely,  and  so  on,  row  after  row,  each  shell 
slightly  overlapping  the  other,  till  the  cement  is  completely  filled  and 
the  flower  finished.  The  shells  are  placed  lengthwise  on  end.  Add 
some  leaves  all  round  the  flowers,  which  are  to  be  fixed  on  at  the  under 
part  of  the  cement,  covering  it  at  the  bottom  completely.  The  shells 
that  form  the  rose  are  about  half  an  inch  long. 

To  make  a  rosebud,  choose  shells  at  least  half  as  large  again ;  fold 
them  over  in  the  same  way  in  the  center  and  close  the  succeeding  shells 
closely  around  them ;  also,  instead  of  placing  the  shells  in  the  cement 
upright,  arrange  them  lengthwise  and  put  a  large  rosebud  calyx  on  the 
stalk  after  the  cement  is  quite  dry.  The  center  of  cement  for  a  rosebud 
is  very  much  smaller  than  for  a  rose,  not  being  quite  a  quarter  of  the 
size. 

For  a  China  aster,  the  small  white  transparent  shells  are  used,  the 
center  being  made  as  small  as  possible  In  the  center  they  are  arranged 
as  closely  as  it  is  possible  to  get  them.  They  are  all  upright,  and  toward 
the  edge  inclining  to  radiate  outward,  slightly.  When  the  cement  is 
quite  dry,  charge  a  small  camel-hair  brush  with  carmine  and  gum,  and 
lightly  variegate  the  flowers  here  and  there. 

For  a  ranunculus,  shape  a  ball  of  cement  the  proper  size ;  then  take 
the  same  kind  of  shells  as  for  the  rose,  but  rather  smaller.     Paint  them 


SHEETING   WAX.  337 

well  with  a  bright  yellow ;  set  them  into  the  cement  as  the  rose  was 
setj  only  very  much  closer  together,  each  one  lapping  over  the  other  as 
close  as  it  is  possible  to  make  them;  continue  like  this  for  some  rows, 
then  set  in  the  rest  gradually,  more  and  more  open,  the  last  two  rows 
radiating  outward  a  little.  Dip  a  brush  in  carmine  and  lightly  mark 
the  tips  of  the  shells  to  give  them  an  irregular,  jagged  appearance. 

All  of  the  garden  favorites  may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  by  taking 
the  cement  for  a  foundation  and  forming  the  flowers  as  nearly  as  pos- 
sible like  the  natural  blossom,  painting  it  with  the  proper  colors  and 
copying  faithfully  any  peculiar  markings.  When  finished  they  may  be 
arranged  into  a  wreath  or  bouquet,  and  framed  if  the  maker  wishes, 
although  the  basket  is  prettiest. 


SHEETINQ  WAX. 

Take  two  cakes  of  the  best  white  wax  and  melt  slowly  in  an  earthen 
vessel ;  when  melted  stir  in  a  large  teaspoonful  of  balsam  of  fir,  and  a 
finger-length  of  "  silver  white,"  such  as  comes  in  tubes  for  oil  painting, 
squeezing  it  from  the  tube  into  the  melted  wax.  Have  a  basin  of  clean, 
warm  soapsuds  at  hand  and  a  plate  of  clean,  smooth  glass,  which  should 
be  in  the  soapsuds  for  some  time,  as  should  the  small  ladle  or  spoon  for 
throwing  the  melted  wax  gently  over  the  glass  plate  for  sheeting. 
Another  way  is  to  melt  the  wax,  using  several  cakes  of  pure  white  in  a 
vessel  of  hot  water,  adding  balsam  of  fir  and  "  silver  white  "  in  propor- 
tion to  quantity;  keep  a  junk  bottle  ready  in  a  basin  of  warm  soapsuds; 
when  the  wax  is  ready  dip  your  bottle,  holding  it  by  the  neck,  quickly 
into  the  wax,  up  to  its  shoulder ;  withdraw  it  quickly,  and  when  the 
coating  hardens,  slit  it  from  top  to  bottom,  and  a  fine  sheet  of  wax  will 
slide  off.  As  the  wax  cools  in  the  vessel  you  will  obtain  thicker  sheets ; 
then  melt  ag-ain. 


SKELETONIZED  LEAYES. 

The  first  step  in  the  process  is  the  gathering  of  the  leaves,  which  is 
best  accomplished  during  the  months  of  June  and  July,  as  at  this  season 
they  are  in  the  most  perfect  condition.  Still  there  are  some  varieties 
which  must,  of  course,  be  collected  at  other  periods,  and  the  seed  ves- 
sels and  those  blossoms  and  other  parts  of  the  plant,  which  are  used  to 
make  variety,  must  be  gathererl  at  the  time  when  they  are  in  the  proper 
condition.  As  these  collections  are  made  the  leaves  should  be  at  once 
22 


338  SKELETO\UZED  LEA  VES. 

laid  between  the  leaves  of  a  book,  and,  as  soon  as  possible  after,  sub- 
jected to  a  certain  amount  of  pressure. 

A  large  number  of  leaves  should  be  gathered  in  preference  to  a  few, 
and  care  must  be  taken  to  select  those  that  are  quite  perfect,  as,  unless 
the  specimens  are  perfect,  the  result  will  be  unsatisfactor)^ ;  indeed  such 
care  is  necessary  in  this  particular,  that  even  a  scratch  or  broken  edge, 
or  a  blotch  or  small  perforation  will  render  the  skeleton  imperfect.  The 
leaves  must  also  be  well  matured,  and  they  should  be  picked  from  tlie 
lower  part  of  the  branch,  not  at  the  top  where  they  are  not  perfectly 
developed.  Notice,  too,  where  from  the  effects  of  the  sun  or  wind  the 
edges  are  curled  or  otherwise  imperfect,  as  those  that  have  a  tough  or 
leathery  texture  will  not  answer.  A  good  plan  for  determining  the 
state  of  the  leaf  is  to  hold  it  up  to  the  light,  when  a  defect  is  very 
readily  seen. 

Evergreens  are  good  and  may  be  picked  late  in  the  autumn,  though 
due  regard  must  be  had  to  the  age  of  the  leaf.  It  is  almost  im.possible 
to  give  a  list  of  leaves  available  for  this  purpose,  as  the  number  is 
iegion,  but  here  are  a  few :  All  poplar  leaves  may  be  said  to  be  easy  to 
press,  the  silver  poplar  especially  so,  the  aspen  also  ;  the  apple  and  pear 
of  the  orchard,  and  various  vines.  The  willow,  maple  and  crab-apple 
must  be  gathered  young  and  carefully  macerated.  The  camelia, 
orange,  lemon,  arbutus,  wisteria  and  some  rose  leaves  form  a  fine  col- 
lection ;  also  lilac,  holly  and  honeysuckle.  Various  seed  vessels  are 
extremely  beautiful  and  easily  prepared,  but  they  must  be  treated  by 
themselves.     Scotch  grass,  ferns,  etc.,  when  bleached,  are  lovely. 

The  collection  of  the  various  specimens  having  been  made,  next  pro- 
ceed to  macerate  the  leaves  by  placing  them  in  an  open  vessel,  a  tub 
or  any  other  convenient  receptacle,  covering  several  inches  above  the 
leaves  with  rain  water,  and  placing  in  the  open  air  and  full  sunlight. 
Place  a  pane  of  glass  over  them,  with  a  weight  sufficient  to  keep  them 
well  down  in  the  water,  the  loss  of  which  by  evaporation  must  be  made 
up  by  adding  a  new  supply  from  time  to  time  as  required.  In  about 
:wo  weeks  they  may  be  examined,  and  if  any  are  found  soft  and  pulpy 
these  must  be  removed.  After  this,  those  that  remain  should  be  exam- 
ined once  or  twice  a  week,  removing  the  soft  ones  each  time  and  pro- 
ceeding to  cleanse  them.  This  is  the  most  unpleasant  part  of  the  entire 
operation,  inasmuch  as  when  the  water  is  disturbed,  the  odor  of  decay- 
ing vegetable  matter  is  most  unpleasant,  but  it  is  well  worth  all  the 
disagreeable  part  of  the  experiment  to  possess  in  the  end  a  collection 
of  the  gossamer  leaves.  After  arriving  at  this  stage  of  the  proceedings, 
the  finding  the  leaf  in  the  pulpy  condition,  it  is  to  be  removed  to  a  ves- 
sel or  basin  of  clear  water,  which  should  be  done  most  carefully  to  pre- 
vent breaking  or  marring  them.  To  accomplish  this  shp  a  card  beneath 
the  leaf,  and  cause  it  to  float  upon  it,  when  it  may  be  easily  rested  upon 


SKELETONIZED  LEA  VES.  339 

the  card  and  removed.  Then,  when  immersed  in  the  basin  of  clean 
water,  it  will  float  off  uninjured. 

The  cleansing  part  of  the  operation  now  commences,  for  which  two 
or  three  brushes  and  a  sharp-pointed  knife  are  necessary ;  a  soft  but 
thick  camel's-hair  brush,  a  stiff  bristle  brush  and  a  tooth-brush  ;  a  leaf  is 
floated  upon  a  piece  of  glass,  then  with  the  soft  brush  gently  passed 
over  the  surface,  all  the  pulp  is  removed ;  aiding  the  brushing  with  a 
carefully  poured  stream  of  water.  Slip  the  leaf  again  into  the  water, 
turn  it,  and  again  float  upon  the  glass,  cleaning  the  opposite  side  in  the 
same  manner.  The  green  surface  must  be  entirely  removed  until 
nothing  but  the  skeleton  of  fibrous  veins  remain.  If  this  is  not  accom- 
plished by  using  the  soft  brush,  the  stiffer  one,  or  the  tooth-brush  must 
be  applied.  The  motion  used  in  cleaning  must  not  be  a  sweeping  one, 
but  rather  a  downward  tapping.  As  the  leaves  are  cleaned  they  must 
be  immersed  in  another  basin  of  clear  water,  and  left  until  the  remainder 
are  all  cleansed ;  then  they  should  be  bleached  as  soon  as  possible, 
which  is  done  in  various  ways.  The  best,  perhaps,  is  a  solution  of 
chloride  of  lime,  and  immersing  them  for  a  day  or  two  in  a  covered 
glass  dish,  placed  in  a  dark  closet,  covering  closely  with  a  folded  towel. 

The  solution  of  chloride  of  lime  is  made  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
chloride  of  lime  in  a  quart  of  water,  adding  a  few  grains  of  citric  acid, 
shaking  well  until  entirely  dissolved,  then  decanting  the  clear  liquid  and 
bottling  for  use.  After  bleaching  the  leaves  they  should  be  placed  in  a 
vessel  of  clear,  cool  water  for  twenty-four  hours,  floated  off  upon  a  card 
and  turned  over  upon  a  soft  napkin,  gently  pressed  with  some  old,  soft 
linen  until  all  moisture  is  absorbed,  and  then  curled  gracefully  or  pressed 
betv/een  the  leaves  of  an  old  book,  under  pressure. 

They  are  now  sufficiently  strong  to  bear  handling  with  ordinary  care, 
and  can  be  arranged  to  suit  the  taste  either  on  a  stand,  under  a  glass 
shade  or  in  a  deep  recess  frame.  Leaves  containing  tannin,  such  as  the 
oak  hazel  and  many  others,  should  never  be  placed  with  others.  Holly 
leaves  are  beautiful,  but  must  be  also  prepared  alone,  on  account  of  the 
spines.  Ferns  and  fine  grasses  are  very  difficult  to  arrange  as  their 
feathery  fronds  are  liable  to  curl,  and  must  be  most  carefully  coaxed 
into  position.  The  best  method  to  accomplish  this  is  to  float  the  leaves 
off  upon  a  card ;  then,  while  damp,  with  a  needle  and  camel's-hair 
brush  arrange  each  tiny  leaflet,  then  lay  them  under  folds  of  soft  paper, 
pressing  gently  upon  the  surface  to  extract  the  moisture,  then  lay  each 
card  between  sheets  of  tissue  paper,  place  newspaper  over  and  under, 
and  place  under  weights.  This  is  a  good  method  of  drying  any  fine 
leaves. 


340  SPATTER  WORK. 


SPATTER  WORK. 

In  selecting  ferns  for  this  beautiful  work,  take  the  narrow  and  deeply- 
cleft  leaves.  You  will  want  all  sizes,  but  more  small  ones.  In  press- 
ing, do  not  have  them  all  straight ;  bend  them  in  various  forms — that 
is,  drooping  and  many  little  graceful  ways. 

Take  a  large  board ;  it  must  be  very  smooth,  soft  and  light ;  put 
strips  across  the  back  that  it  may  not  warp.  A  fine  wire  sieve  made 
round.  The  frame  of  this  is  six  inches  in  diameter,  one  inch  and  three- 
fourths  in  depth.  Fine  wire  gauze  like  a  flour  sieve  is  set  three-fourths 
of  an  inch  from  one  edge  which  is  the  top.  The  handle  is  set  in  the 
top,  sloping  down ;  is  five  and  one-fourth  inches  long,  one-half  inch  in 
diameter  where  it  is  set  and  one  inch  at  the  other  end.  Two  dozen 
papers  of  fine  needles  will  be  none  too  many  for  a  large  picture ;  a 
horseshoe  magnet  to  pick  up  falling  needles,  and  a  very  stiff  tooth- 
brush. 

To  Make  a  Cross — Tack  your  bfistol-board  smoothly  on  your  lap- 
board,  lay  the  cross  pattern  on  the  paper  and  slightly  outline  with  a 
pencil ;  take  off  the  pattern  and  lay  on  the  ferns  and  vines  as  you  wish 
them  to  be  seen  on  the  cross ;  put  on  the  pattern  cross,  and  pin  very 
smoothly.  A  narrow  strip  should  be  cut  from  the  right  side  of  the 
pattern,  the  whole  length,  under  the  right  arm  and  the  end  also  under 
the  left  arm.  Put  on  the  shadows  with  the  rest  of  the  pattern,  and  be 
sure  there  is  not  the  slightest  space  between.  Put  more  ferns  on  the 
pattern  with  ends  projecting  over. 

A  descending  dove  with  a  fine  branch  in  the  mouth  is  a  great  addi- 
tion. Take  some  dove  picture,  cut  the  wings  close  to  the  body,  then 
pin  all  on,  spatter ;  when  a  little  dark  take  off  the  lower  wing,  spatter ; 
then  the  upper,  spatter  ;  then  the  body,  spatter ;  then  the  branch ;  small 
birds  and  angels  are  pretty  among  the  ferns. 

Pin  each  tiny  cleft  down,  or  the  dampness  will  curl  your  leaves  and 
spoil  your  picture.  When  all  this  is  done,  take  a  saucer  a  little  more 
than  half  full  of  hot  water,  rub  your  India  ink  in  the  water  until  as  thick 
as  thin  cream ;  place  a  newspaper  beside  you ;  dip  your  brush  very 
lightly  in  the  ink  and  spatter  first  upon  the  paper,  and  when  the  ink  is 
most  rubbed  off  the  sieve,  spatter  your  picture.  Do  not  be  discouraged 
if  you  do  not  see  it  grow  black  for  many  minutes,  it  will  be  all  the 
nicer;  continue  rubbing  your  brush  on  the  sieve  until  it  is- perfectly 
clean.     Your  best  spatters  are  when  you  see  no  ink  on  the  sieve. 

After  the  leaves  you  put  on  last  are  sufficiently  black,  take  ofl  one  at 
a  time  and  put  immediately  in  pans  for  future  use.     Spatter  the  removal 


SPATTER  WORK,  341 

of  each  leaf.  Take  off  your  shadows,  one  at  a  time,  spatter.  When 
all  shadows  and  outside  leaves  are  off,  and  you  have  spattered  last,  take 
off  the  cross,  pin  down  the  leaves  that  were  under  the  pattern,  spatter 
till  dark  enough ;  then  take  all  off  and  spatter  over  the  whole.  Keep 
the  upper  part  of  cross  light.  All  leaves,  etc.,  intended  to  be  light, 
_must  be  left  on  till  the  last.  The  base  of  the  cross  should  be  very  dark. 
Look  at  the  inside  of  your  sieve  often,  that  spray  may  not  form  drops 
and  blot  your  work.  If  you  should  blot  it,  or  find  large  spatters,  tear 
off  a  small  piece  of  blotting  paper,  dampen  it,  and  touch  the  blot  lightly 
till  all  soaked  up. 

An  Anchor  is  pretty  with  birds  among  the  ferns.  Also  a  harp,  with 
cupids,  birds,  etc. 

Spatterwork  can  be  made  as  fine  as  an  engraving,  and  with  care, 
patience  and  good  taste  a  beautiful  picture  can  be  produced.  The 
work  when  once  commenced  should  never  be  left  till  completed.  The 
leaves  will  curl  up  after  being  dampened  and  the  ink  spoils  in  a  few 
hours. 

To  Make  a  Screen  for  Fire  Place — First  have  the  frame  the  right 
■size  for  the  chimney,  and  then  cover  it  with  white  domestic.  Do  the 
spatterwork  on  coarse  white  Swiss,  and  then  stretch  it  tightly  over  the 
frame  you  have  made.  A  pretty  design  is  a  scroll,  surrounded  with 
leaves,  clusters  of  grapes,  etc.,  arranged  according  to  the  artistic  tasie 
of  the  maker.  Have  little  bunches  of  leaves  and  grapes  in  the  four 
corners.     The  effect  of  this  on  Swiss  is  beautiful. 

For  the  Photographic  Method — Cover  a  sheet  of  paper  with  a  weak 
solution  of  salt  in  water  and  some  white  of  an  tg%  well  beaten ;  after  it 
is  dry,  take  it  into  a  dark  room,  and  with  a  tuft  of  cotton  pass  over  it  a 
solution  of  nitrate  of  silver  (fifty  grains  to  an  ounce  of  water) ;  dry  it  in 
the  dark,  and  the  chloride  of  silver  formed  on  its  surface  will  receive  the 
impression.  Then  arrange  your  ferns  between  two  plates  of  glass,  and 
cut  the  paper  to  the  same  size  as  the  glass  plates ;  place  it  under  them 
and  expose  to  the  sun  in  the  same  way  as  a  photographer  prints  a  por- 
trait. Watch  it  until  dark  enough,  and  before  removing  the  paper  from 
the  glass  take  it  into  a  dark  room.  Here  place  the  pjcture  in  a  solution 
of  hyposulphite  of  soda,  which  will  dissolve  the  chloride  of  silver,  but 
leave  the  decomposed  material  (finely  divided  black  silver),  which  forms 
the  black  background,  while  the  shadows  of  the  leaves  will  be  white. 


342  SUMMER  HINTS. 


SUMMER  HINTS. 

THE  ART  OF  KEEPING  COOL. 

It  is  not  by  fretting'  or  worrying  or  plying  the  fan  that  we  can  keep 
cool,  but  by  taking  up  our  work,  doing  it  bravely  and  cheerily,  with  as 
little  fuss  as  possible.  "  Take  time  by  the  forelock  "  and  rise  early,  get- 
ting as  much  done  as  possible  before  the  heat  of  the  day.  Never  do 
any  work  after  dinner ;  if  it  cannot  be  done  in  the  forenoon,  let  it  go 
uutil  the  next  day.  You  will  Uve  just  as  long  and  the  family  be  as  com- 
fortable. 

It  is  a  mistake  to  keep  the  house  close  as  a  cell  all  day,  lest  the  sun's 
rays  should  enter  it.  Pure  air  must  be  allowed  to  circulate  through  the 
house,  and  this  is  of  importance  in  keeping  the  body  cool.  Throw  the 
blinds  and  windows  open  very  early  in  the  morning  and  keep  them  so 
until  the  dew  iias  dried  off ;  then  close  them  tightly,  and  the  rooms  will 
remain  quite  comfortable  until  evening,  when  the  blinds  can  again  be 
throw^n  open  to  admit  the  cool  evening  breeze. 

Drinking  large  draughts  of  ice-water  when  the  body  is  heated,  or 
partaking  too  freely  of  food  or  ices,  should  be  carefully  avoided.  Bath- 
ing when  heated  or  in  excessive  perspiration  is  a  good  cause  for  illness  ; 
but  an  ammonia  or  salt  water  bath  once  a  day — but  not  directly  after  a 
meal — is  not  only  a  luxury  but  a  positiv'e  necessity. 

Also  we  should  be  careful  in  the  food  we  eat ;  very  little  meat  is 
desirable,  but  fish,  lamb,  chickens  and  all  white  fleshed  fowls  are  in  sea- 
son ;  also,  all  kinds  of  vegetables  and  fruits.  Berries  as  well  as  stoned 
fruits  can  be  eaten  in  moderation.  Much  is  said  against  the  unhealth- 
fulness  of  cucumbers  and  watermelons ;  the  first  can  be  eaten  without 
discomfort  if  allowed  to  stand  a  few  minutes  in  salt  and  water,  then 
poured  off  and  vinegar  put  in  its  place.  Watermelons  can  be  eaten,  if 
fresh  and  thoroughly  ripe.  Iced  tea  and  coffee  are  very  desirable  ;  as 
they  act  as  tonics  upon  the  system.  Only  enough  should  be  cooked 
to  be  eaten  the  same  day,  for  even  if  put  in  an  ice  box  it  will  taste  stale. 
All  animal  food  should  be  eaten  of  sparingly;  milk  and  fruit,  bread 
and  vegetables,  ice  cream  (which  now  can  be  bought  at  a  small  cost), 
iced  fruit,  oatmeal,  hard  boiled  eggs  served  in  vinegar  and  salt,  which 
have  lately  been  pronounced  by  medical  authority  more  digestible  than 
soft  boiled  eggs ;  ham  sandwiches,  dried  and  canned  meats,  jellies, 
fresh  crackers  and  dried  fish — all  of  these  are  good  for  summer  meals, 
or  for  picnic  lunches. 

Why  do  not  people  when  traveling  make  up  their  own  lunches, 
instead  of  depending  upon  hotels  or  the  railroad  stations,  and  then 
in:jtead  of  being  half  starved  or  getting  a  headache  with  their  hastily 


THE  ART  OF  KEEPING  COOL.  343 

bolted  food,  they  could  travel  comfortably  to  the  end  of  their  journey  ? 
One  can  make  their  lemonade  easily  by  rolling  the  lemons  until  soft, 
slicing  them  very  thin  and  packing  in  sugar  in  a  deep-mouthed  bottle. 
All  that  would  be  necessary  to  have  a  glass  of  delicious  lemonade  is  to 
take  out  a  little  of  the  lemon  and  juice  in  a  glass,  fill  with  ice  water  and 
you  will  have  a  different  mixture  from  the  compound  of  acid  and  water 
served  out  at  stations  and  refreshment  stands.  Tea  can  be  made  by 
taking  a  quantity  and  pouring  a  little  more  hot  water  than  enough  to 
cover,  over  it.  Then  put  in  a  glass  case  and  fill  up  with  hot  water  and 
allow  it  to  stand  till  needed.  A  very  little  of  this  in  a  cup  of  ice  water 
will  make  dehcious  tea,  and  serva  as  an  admirable  tonic  when  weary 
and  half  sick.  Crackers  with  raisins  or  figs  are  good  substitutes  when 
fresh  fruit  cannot  be  bought.  Pine-apple  sliced  and  left  to  stand  a  few 
hours,  with  sugar  sprinkled  over  it,  makes  a  fine  dessert. 

Excessive  heat  is  much  like  excessive  cold,  both  will  produce  bad 
effects  upon  the  physical  system,  but  bad  management  oftener  produces 
suffering  and  disease.  Frequent  bathing  of  the  whole  body  is  very 
essential,  yet  if  it  is  not  rightly  administered  it  may  produce  disease.  A 
bath  before  retiring  or  at  rising  can  never  be  out  of  place.  Going  in 
swimming  or  bathing  while  in  excessive  perspiration  is  also  a  frequent 
cause  of  illness.  Salt  water  bathing  is  highly  recommended,  but  a  daily 
bath  is  a  decided  luxury  if  not  taken  directly  after  a  meal. 

Drinking  large  quantities  of  ice  water  when  the  body  is  greatly 
heated,  or  partaking  too  freely  of  ices  or  stimulating  drinks,  should  be 
carefully  avoided.  Iced  tea  and  coffee  are  very  desirable  as  a  drink,  as 
they  act  as  a  tonic  on  the  system  and  are  better  than  iced  water.  Ice  is 
a  luxury  in  warm  weather,  and  is  really  quite  essential,  and  ought  to  be 
obtainable  by  every  family  under  the  simple  and  economical  method 
of  storing  now  introduced.  A  small  piece  of  ice  will  keep  a  long  time 
if  it  is  v^rapped  in  three  or  four  thicknesses  of  woolen  cloth  and  kept  in 
a  cool  place. 

We  should  be  careful  to  keep  the  stomach  in  good  order — free  from 
acidity,  which  is  often  the  cause  of  inflammation.  A  httle  soda  water 
taken  after  a  full  meal,  will  often  prove  an  antidote  to  this  trouble.  If 
you  cannot  obtain  it  at  the  druggist's  in  the  form  of  effervescence,  you 
can  take  a  half  teaspoonful  of  common  baking  soda  dissolved  in  cold 
water  and  drink  it. 

The  frequent  changing  and  airing  of  all  under-clothing  and  bedding 
is  also  very  conducive  to  good  health.  When  the  sun  shines  out  clear 
and  bright,  but  not  hot,  and  there  is  a  gentle  breeze,  bring  out  the  beds 
and  pillows,  place  them  on  a  clothes  line,  beat  them  strongly  and  let 
them  remain  a  few  hours,  and  you  will  be  charmed  with  the  elasticity 
of  both  pillows  and  mattresses.  Children's  beds  especially  need  to  be 
aired  in  this  manner  if  you  would  have  their  sleep  refreshing.  Every 
room  that  is  occupied  in  the  house  should  be  well  ventilated  daily. 


344:  SUMMER  HINTS. 

The  kitchen  sink-drains  and  cellar  should  be  well  attended  to.  Clean 
out  the  drains  and  sprinkle  well  wiih  a  strong  solution  of  copperas 
water;  place  chloride  of  lime  in  earthen  dishes  and  set  them  on  the  cel- 
lar, bottom  in  some  out  of  the  way  corner  where  it  will  not  get  dis- 
turbed. Chloride  of  lime  and  cof)peras  are  both  good  disinfectants.  At 
this  season  of  the  year  the  old  saw,  "  an  ounce  of  prevention  is  worth 
a  pound  of  cure,"  should  strike  each  one  of  us  very  forcibly,  and  we 
should  act  accordingly. 

Among  other  annoyances  in  the  summer  are  flies.  A  few  branches 
of  elderbush  if  hung  in  the  room  is  said  to  keep  flies  out,  for  they  shun 
it  as  we  would  a  pestilence.  Keep  the  dining-room  free  from  crumbs 
or  eatables  only  when  meals  are  in  progress,  and  every  morning  darken 
the  room,  except  one  window,  and  drive  the  flies  out  through  the  light 
aperture.  A  good  "  fly  sweeper  "  can  be  made  by  taking  wrapping  paper, 
cutting  it  up  into  small  strips,  narrow  but  long,  and  tying  one  end  of  the 
paper  strips  to  the  end  of  a  broom  handle.  A  vigorous  use  of  this  will 
soon  clear  a  room  of  flie-. 

Mosquitoes  can  be  got  rid  of  in  rooms  by  the  smoke  of  insect-pow- 
der burnt  on  a  hot  shovel.  When  it  is  not  easy  to  get  fire,  put  a  bit  of 
gum-camphor  on  a  shovel,  light  and  the  gum  will  catch  as  quickly  as 
alcohol ;  then  sprinkle  a  tablespoonful  of  msect-powder  (pyrethrum)  on 
the  flame,  let  it  take  fire  and  blow  out  the  blaze,  close  the  windows  and 
let  the  smoke  rise  for  five  minutes.  It  will  not  injure  walls  or  furniture 
and  does  not  harm  human  beings,  though  obnoxious  to  insects.  Hang- 
ing a  cloth  on  which  a  teaspoonful  of  carbohc  acid  is  poured,  at  the 
head  of  the  bed,  will  keep  mosquitoes  away,  and  many  have  repeat- 
edly gained  a  good  night's  sleep  by  this  means  when  others  failed. 
Take  care  to  place  the  cloth  or  sponge  so  that  there  is  no  danger 
of  touching  it  with  the  face  or  hands  in  the  night,  as  the  acid  burns  like 
caustic. 

A  wash  of  fifteen  or  twenty  drops  of  common  carbolic  acid  in  a  half- 
pint  of  water  will  immediately  relieve  the  smart  of  mosquito  bites,  hives,, 
prickly  heat  and  all  irritations  of  the  skin  common  in  summer.  As  the 
strength  of  carbolic  acid  commonly  sold  varies,  the  dilution  should  be 
tested  before  using  by  wetting  a  small  spot  of  skin.  If  it  causes 
any  burning  in  a  moment  or  so,  it  is  too  strong  and  more  water  must 
be  added. 

A  Large  Sponge  hung  in  the  room  at  night  or  in  the  day  time,  if  it 
can  be,  behind  a  convenient  screen,  and  kept  constantly  wet,  will  greatly 
assist  in  keeping  a  room  cold,  or  a  wet  cloth  hung  in  the  window  over 
the  blind  will  cool  the  room  as  if  a  shower  had  fallen ;  all  know  how 
fresh  water  sprinkled  on  the  pavement  in  front  of  the  windows  and 
doors  will  freshen  the  hot,  dry  air. 

In  Tropical  Countries,  where  ice  is  almost  unknown,  the  natives  cool 


THE  ART  OF  KEEPING  COOL.  345 

their  drinking  water  by  suspending  earthen  jars  filled  with  it  in  a  brisk 
current  of  air,  which  process  is  said  to  cool  it  thoroughly  and  rapidly. 
A  wet  handkerchief,  sponge  or  green  leaves  worn  in  the  hat,  when 
one  is  exposed  to  the  sun,  will  prevent  sunstroke  under  the  most  intense 
heat. 

Butter  May  Be  Kept  Fresh  and  sweet  by  putting  it  in  a  tin  pail 
(suspended  by  a  string)  down  in  the  well,  or  by  setting  the  bowl  con- 
taining it  in  a  hollow  vessel  of  water  and  covering  it  with  a  napkin,  the 
ends  of  which  are  well  immersed  in  the  water  in  the  bottom  dish. 

Filtered  Water  can  be  produced  easily,  by  taking  a  large,  sound 
common  earthen  fiower-pot,  and  soaking  in  water  twenty-four  hours. 
Then  fill  the  hole  at  the  bottom  with  clean  sponge,  put  in  an  inch  layer 
of  fine,  clean  sand,  and  on  the  top  a  layer  of  clean  coarse  gravel,  and  let 
the  water  filter  through  it. 

When  it  is  desirable  to  filter  water  quickly,  for  immediate  use,  employ 
the  following  method  :  Put  a  quart  of  clean  water  over  the  fire  and 
just  bring  it  to  a  boil;  remove  it  and  strain  it  three  or  four  times 
through  flannel ;  cool  it  and  keep  it  for  use  in  a  covered  jar  or  pitcher. 

An  Effective  Ice- Box  can  be  made  by  placing  one  tight  box  within 
another,  leaving  a  space  of  three  inches  between  the  sides  of  the  two,  to 
be  filled  with  pounded  charcoal  or  saw-dust.  Each  box  must  have  a 
tight  lid,  and  betv^^een  the  space  of  the  covers  a  piece  of  flannel  of  sev- 
eral folds  should  be  laid. 

The  outflow  of  the  drippings  of  the  ice  should  be  arranged  at  the 
bottom  of  the  box,  and  it  will  be  all  the  better  if  the  pipe  that  is 
inserted  for  this  purpose  is  curved  or  twisted  a  little  to  keep  out  the  air. 

A  coarse  woolen  cover  should  be  placed  over  the  ice,  and  when  the 
quantity  is  small  it  is  an  excellent  plan  to  fill  glass  bottles  with  water 
early  in  the  morning,  and  keep  them  well  corked  and  laid  upon  the  ice 
until  needed  for  drinking.  If  no  ice  can  be  obtained,  and  there  is  no 
cold  spring  at  hand,  very  cold  water  can  be  obtained  by  filling  a  large 
earthen  jar  with  it,  putting  it  in  the  shade  in  a  good  current  of  air 
and  wrapping  the  jar  in  a  very  thick  woolen  cloth  (an  old  coat  will 
answer  for  an  outer  wrap)  and  keeping  it  constantly  wet.  This  causes 
evaporation  of  heat  and  cools  the  water  finely. 


346  THE  TOILET, 


THE  TOILET. 

HOW  TO  BE  BEAUTIFUL. 

The  first  requisite  in  a  woman  toward  pleasing  others  is  that  she 
should  be  pleased  with  herself.  In  no  other  way  can  she  obtain  that  self- 
poise  that  leaves  her  at  liberty  to  devote  herself  to  others.  The  most 
beautiful  faces  are  those  wherein  the  inner  life  shines  out  and  radiates 
them,  like  the  sunlight  streaming  through  a  rose-colored  window. 

Keep  your  souls  and  hearts  pure,  your  bodies  healthy,  and  you  will 
never  look  homely  to  anyone.  One  advantage  you  will  have  over  your 
prettier  sister  is  that  you  will  grow  in  beauty  as  the  years  go  by,  while 
hers  will  fade  with  her  youth.  A  pretty  woman,  knowing  she  is  pretty, 
will  seldom  do  anything  to  retain  her  beauty  till  it  is  irrevocably  lost ; 
then,  instead  of  commencing  at  the  foundation  of  beauty,  she  covers  her 
skin  with  cosmetics  and  powders,  stopping  up  the  breathing  places  of 
her  body,  until  at  thirty  she  is  an  old  woman  instead  of  being  at  the 
prime  of  her  youth.  Most  authorities  claim  that  a  woman  is  at  the 
height  of  her  power  at  uventy-six,  and  after  that  age  grows  old  rapidly. 

She  does  unless  she  uses  her  mind  and  intellect  and  lets  them  keep 
pace  with  her  years ;  then  power  and  intelligence  will  manifest  itself 
in  her  face  and  make  her  almost  handsome,  however  homely  her  fea- 
tures may  be.  What  if  they  are  not  regular!  If  she  has  a  clear  skin, 
good  teeth,  bright  eyes,  luxuriant  growth  of  hair,  happy,  good-natured 
face,  who  asks  whether  she  is  twenty  or  thirty .'' 

AH  people  of  whatever  sex  or  race  worship  beauty.  Not  the  mere 
fashion  of  face  or  form,  pink  or  white  complexion,  but  the  symmetry 
and  brightness  that  come  of  physical  and  spiritual  refinement.  The 
essence  of  beauty  is  health,  and  no  woman  can  be  perfect  in  her  beauty 
without  it. 

The  first  necessary  treatment  is  the  bath,  and  the  surest  purifier  of 
the  skin ;  this,  with  plenty  of  exercise,  either  in  riding  or  walking  is  an 
assistant  cosmetic. 

Girls  cannot  keep  late  hours,  thereby  losing  their  beauty  sleep,  but 
must  go  to  bed  quite  early  and  arise  at  seven  in  the  morning.  Make  it 
possible  to  take  a  short  walk  in  the  morning  and  come  home  with  roses 
on  your  cheeks. 

A  little  healthy  romping  is  as  good  for  girls  as  boys,  and  they  ought 
to  have  the  same  healthy  bodies. 

DRESSING-TABLE  APPOINTMENTS. 

Happily,  the  cold,  marble  bureau  slab,  with  nothing  to  cover  its 
nakedness,  and  upon  it,  in  solitary  state,  a  pin-cushion,  a  match  box,  a 


HOW  TO  BE  BEAUTIFUL.  347 

cracked  and  empty  "  Lubin's  Extract "  bottle,  with  the  stopper  gone,  a 
hand-glass  battered  by  hard  service  and  a  stray  hair-pin,  has  long  since 
stepped  down  and  out  in  favor  of  a  dainty  toilet  table  all  filmy  lace  and 
snowy  muslin. 

A  dressing  case,  with  all  the  appurtenances  in  perfect  order,  is  a  very 
desirable  luxury  for  every  lady,  and  moreover  it  gives  at  once  a  stamp 
of  elegance  to  the  whole  room  and  that  air  of  coquetry  which  no 
woman's  sanctum  is  ever  the  worse  for.  Although  she  may  find  a 
brush  and  comb,  tooth  brush,  nail  brush  and  powder  box  sufficient  for 
her  own  wants,  she  must  take  into  consideration  when  other  ladies  are 
visiting  her,  or  when  her  room  is  converted  into  a  dressing  room,  the 
absence  of  a  more  complete  collection  of  toilet  articles  may  be  sensibly 
felt.  It  is  the  more  advisable  to  provide  a  handsome  set  of  powder 
boxes  and  perfume  bottles,  all  well  filled  with  powder,  essences  and 
toilet  waters  of  the  choicest  quality,  a  glove  box,  a  scented  handker- 
chief box,  dainty  little  receptacles  for  pins  and  hair  pins,  a  perfectly 
appointed  nail  box,  a  pretty  jewel  case  and  a  handsome  hand-glass. 

Unless  perfumes  can  be  had  of  the  very  best  quality  (they  are  always 
vile  when  cheap),  and  unless  the  most  judicious  moderation  be  observed 
in  the  use  of  them,  let  them  be  eschewed  by  all  means  ;  but  if  they  can 
be  had  of  the  best,  and  the  use  of  them  is  understood,  then  let  woman 
patronize  them,  certainly,  for  their  presence  gratifies  one  sense,  and 
more,  they  are  the  most  convincing  testimony  of  refinement,  and  give 
the  finishing  touch  to  a  woman's  personality. 

The  fragrant  tooth  washes,  the  scented  soaps  and  face  powders,  the 
sachets  thrown  here  and  there  among  the  linen,  the  cosmetics,  often  the 
toilet  waters,  these  all  have  their  own  delicate  perfumes,  and  when  are 
added  to  them  the  lingering  scent  that  clings  about  a  dress  or  piece  of 
lace  upon  which  flowers  have  been  worn,  and  the  crisp  odor  that  silks, 
satins,  laces,  velvets  and  all  such  things  have  of  themselves  when  they 
are  new,  fresh  and  well  cared  for,  the  indefinable  suggestion  of  per- 
fume, which  is  the  great  desideratum,  is  accounted  for  and  attained, 
without  the  consumption  to  any  great  extent  of  any  particular  cologne 
or  extract. 

Extracts  should  be  used  most  sparingly,  and  atomizers  are  to  be  rec- 
ommended for  this  purpose  under  all  circumstances.  Perhaps  the  use 
of  toilet  waters  in  the  bath,  many  of  which  never  yield  their  most  deli- 
cate and  pleasant  odors  until  diluted  with  water,  is,  besides  being  very 
refreshing,  the  most  satisfactory  method  of  imparting  a  delicate  odor  to 
the  skin. 

The  Greeks  carried  sachets  in  their  dresses  and  filled  their  rooms 
with  incense,  and  until  this  day  we  have  found  no  more  satisfactory 
method  of  imparting  a  pleasant  and  lasting  perfume  to  the  clothes  than 
by  their  use.     The  finest  sachet  powders  will  retain  their  strength  and 


348  THE  TOILET, 

odors  for  years.  Make  large  flat  sachets,  of  whatever  powder  desired, 
to  fit  into  the  bottoms  of  drawers,  trays  of  trunks,  in  boxes,  or  wherever 
a  lady's  linen  is  kept,  and  keep  them  lined  always  in  this  way.  Many 
ladies  prefer  adopting  one  certain  perfume,  and  making  it,  in  a  meas- 
ure, characteristic  of  themselves,  to  using  a  variety  of  scents.  Thus  the 
perfume  about  their  laces,  handkerchiefs,  and  writing  paper,  their 
extracts,  toilet  waters,  and  soaps  will  all  be  of  the  same  kind. 

COLOGNE  AND  SACHET  POWDERS. 

Cologne  is  quite  expensive  if  bought  at  the  druggist's,  but  can  be 
made  at  home  with  but  little  expense  and  trouble,  and  a  better  article 
of  cologne  than  that  which  is  usually  bought,  can  be  made  by  thor- 
oughly dissolving  a  fluid  drachm  of  the  oil  of  bergamot,  orange  and 
rosemar}-'  each,  with  half  a  drachm  of  neroli,  and  a  pint  of  rectified 
spirits.  Another,  equally  good,  is  produced  by  mixing  with  one  pint  of 
rectified  spirit  two  fluid  drachms  each  of  the  oils  of  bergamot  and 
lemon,  one  of  the  oil  of  orange  and  half  as  much  as  that  of  the  lemon, 
together  with  three-quarters  of  a  drachm  of  neroli  and  four  drops  of 
the  essence  of  ambergris  and  musk.  If  this  is  subsequently  distilled,  it 
makes  what  may  be  called  a  perfect  cologne,  but  it  becomes  exceedingly- 
fine  by  being  tightly  stoppered  for  two  or  three  months  to  ripen  and 
mellow  before  use. 

Seven  drachms  oil  of  bergamot,  four  drachms  of  lemon,  three  drachms 
oil  of  lavender,  twelve  drops  oil  of  rosemary,  twelve  drops  oil  of  cloves, 
twenty-four  drops  oil  of  neroli,  twelve  drops  oil  of  musk,  with  one 
quart  ninety  per  cent  high  wine.  Let  it  stand  for  a  few  days,  when  you 
may  add  water  to  suit.  For  general  use  a  pint  will  not  be  too  much, 
and  subsequently  filter  it  with  magnesia,  which  will  leave  it  entirely- 
clear.     The  water  will  decidedly  improve  the  odor. 

Or  the  following  :  Three  drachms  oil  of  bergamot,  two  drachms  oil 
of  lemon,  one  drachm  oil  of  neroli,  one  drachm  oil  of  lavender,  two 
drachms  oil  of  palm,  one  drachm  oil  of  rosemary,  one  drachm  oil  of 
cloves,  one-half  drachm  oil  of  coriander,  with  one  quart  ninety  per  cent 
highwine.     Add  water  same  as  above. 

Otto  of  Roses — Gather  the  leaves  of  any  kind  of  roses  (hundred- 
leaved  is  best),  put  them  in  a  jar  with  sufficient  water  to  cover  them  ; 
then  put  the  vessel  to  stand  in  the  sun.  In  about  a  week  afterwards 
the  otto  or  oil  will  form  a  scum  on  the  surface,  which  should  be  removed 
by  a  piece  of  cotton. 

Rose  Water — Take  otto  of  roses,  twenty-five  drops,  rub  it  in  with  an 
ounce  of  white  sugar  and  four  drachms  of  the  carbonate  of  magnesia ; 
then  add  gradually  half  a  gallon  of  water  and  four  ounces  of  proof 
spirits. 

Lavender  Water — Take  oil  of  lavender  eight  ounces,  essence  of  ber- 


CAKE  AND  TREATMENT  OF  THE  SKIN.  349 

gamot  one  and  a  half  ounces,  essence  of  musk  four  ounces,  alcohol  two 
gallons,  and  mix  well. 

Cologne  Water — One  pint  of  alcohol,  sixty  drops  of  lavender,  sixty 
drops  of  bergamot,  sixty  drops  of  essence  of  lemon,  sixty  drops  of 
orange  water ;  to  be  corked  up  and  well  shaken.  It  is  better  for  con- 
siderable age. 

Orris  Root  gives  the  same  perfume  as  violets,  and  is  more  like  the 
perfume  of  these  flowers  than  that  of  the  violet  powder. 

Sandal  Wood  Powder — is  good,  and  consists  of  the  wood  ground 
fine.  Cedar  wood  when  ground  forms  a  body  for  other  powder,  and 
will  keep  moths  at  a  distance.  Dried  lavender,  dried  leaves  of  the 
sweet-scented  verbena,  or  tonquin  beans,  are  all  pleasant  scents.  Dried 
fennel,  when  ground,  is  used  for  this  purpose,  as  is  also  ground  nutmeg. 

For  Heliotrope  Powder,  take  half  a  pound  of  orris  root,  one  quarter 
pound  of  ground  rose  leaves,  two  ounces  powdered  tonquin  bean,  one 
ounce  vanilla  bean,  one-half  drachm  grain  musk,  two  drops  otto  of 
almonds ;  mix  it  all  by  sifting  through  a  coarse  sieve.  This  is  one  of 
the  best  sachets  ever  made,  and  perfumes  table-cloths,  sheets,  pillow- 
cases and  towels  deliciously. 

For  Lavender  Powder,  take  one  pound  of  powdered  lavender,  one- 
quarter  pound  of  gum  benzoin,  and  one-quarter  of  an  ounce  of  otto  of 
lavender. 

Or  this  :  H^lf  a  pound  of  lavender  flowers,  free  from  the  stalk,  half 
an  ounce  of  dried  thyme  and  mint,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  ground 
cloves  and  caraway,  and  Dne'ounce  of  dried  common  salt.  Mix  them 
well  together,  and  put  into  silk  or  cambric  bags. 

For  Patchouli,  use  one-half  pound  of  patchouli,  ground  fine,  and  a 
very  little  otto  of  patchouli.  This  herb  is  often  sold  m  its  natural  state 
as  imported,  and  it  is  tied  up  in  half-pound  bundles. 

Where  one  is  filling  many  sachets  it  pays  to  buy  these  ingredients 
and  make  the  powder.  There  is  nothing  to  do  but  mix  it  nicely,  as  it 
requires  no  other  preparation. 

CARE  AND  TREATMENT  OF  THE  SKIN. 

Tincture  of  benzoin  (ten  cents'  worth),  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  wine, 
imparts  a  smoothness  to  the  skin,  and  does  not  harm  it,  as  so  many  face 
washes  do.  This  should  be  put  on  at  night,  before  going  to  bed ;  the 
face  first  washed  with  pure  and  fine  soap,  and  then  rinsed  off  in  clear, 
cold  water.  The  benzoin  can  be  dissolved  in  water,  as  well  as  wine, 
though  the  latter  is  preferable.  For  a  rough  or  sunburned  skin,  use 
two  ounces  of  distilled  water,  one  of  glycerine,  one  of  alcohol,  and  half 
an  ounce  of  tincture  of  benzoin.  Without  the  water,  and  with  the  addi- 
tion of  two  ounces  of  prepared  chalk,  free  from  bismuth,  it  makes  a 
fine  cosmetic  for  whitening  the  face,  and  is  not  injurious,  like  the  expen-, 
sive  "  Balms  "  or  "  Blooms,"  so  highly  advertised. 


350  THE  TOILET. 

The  beauties  of  the  court  of  Charles  II.  took  a  small  piece  of  green 
benzoin,  and  boiled  it  in  spirits  of  wine  until  it  became  a  rich  tmcture. 
Fifteen  drops  of  this  poured  into  a  glass  of  water  will  produce  a  liquid 
that  looks  like  milk,  and  emits  a  most  agreeable  perfume.  This  wash  is 
an  excellent  remedy  for  spots,  pimples  and  eruptions,  renders  the  skin 
clear  and  brilliant,  and  the  cheeks  a  beautiful  rosy  color. 

Another  is  medicated  soap,  melted  and  made  into  balls,  with  finely 
ground  oatmeal.  Oatmeal  and  buttermilk  together  possess  wonder- 
fully beautifying  qualities,  and  oatmeal  by  itself  now  occupies  a  place 
on  many  washstands,  steeped  in  water  in  small  quantities.  Its  balsamic 
qualities  and  glutinous  oiliness  make  the  flesh  beautifully  soft  and 
white.     A  little  lemon  juice  may  be  added  advantageously. 

For  a  remedy  to  produce  immediate  and  wonderful  effects  in  whiten- 
ing the  skin,  use  tar  and  olive  oil  heated  together  and  cooled ;  use  upon 
the  face  when  going  to  bed,  with  a  mask  of  thin  old  linen  or  muslin 
put  on  to  prevent  coming  off — farther  protecting  the  pillows  by  an 
old  sheet  thrown  over  them.  In  the  morning  a  bath  of  white  castile 
soap  and  water  brings  the  face  out  pure  and  softly  tinted  as  a  child's. 
This  is  not  only  the  best,  but  the  most  perfectly  harmless  and  cheap 
preparation  that  can  be  procured. 

To  improve  the  texture  of  the  skin,  bathe  it  before  going  to  bed  in 
very  warm  water  and  toilet  soap  of  fine  quality,  rubbing  thoroughly 
with  a  coarse  towel.  Then  wash  off  all  soap  with  cooler  water,  and 
dry  the  skin  with  a  soft  towel  and  smooth. 

The  discoloration  known  as  mask  is  removed  by  a  wash  made  from 
thirty  grains  of  the  chlorate  of  potash  in  eight  ounces  of  rose-water. 

Wrinkles  are  less  apparent  under  a  kind  of  varnish  containing  thirty- 
six  grammes  of  turpentine  in  three  drachms  of  alcohol,  allowed  to  dry 
on  the  face. 

For  pimples  on  the  face  use  this  recipe  :  Thirty  grains  of  bicarbonate 
of  soda,  one  drachm  of  glycerine,  one  ounce  of  spermaceti  ointment. 
Rub  on  the  face ;  let  it  remain  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  wipe  off 
all  but  a  slight  film  with  a  soft  cloth. 

To  Remove  Moth  Patches — Wash  the  patches  with  a  solution  of 
common  bicarbonate  of  soda  and  water  for  several  times  during  the 
day,  for  two  days,  or  until  the  patches  are  removed,  which  will  usually 
be  in  forty-eight  hours.  After  the  process,  wash  with  some  nice  toilet 
soap,  and  the  skin  will  be  left  nice,  clean,  and  free  of  patches.  Lemon 
juice  is  also  good  rubbed  on  the  skin.  Or  this  :  Beef  tallow,  melted 
and  made  very  hot  in  a  spoon  ;  dip  into  it  a  tiny  mop,  made  of  old  linen 
rolled  up  tightly ;  apply  to  these  spots  as  hot  as  it  is  bearable  at  retir- 
ing, and  again  after  the  morning's  bath.  In  a  week  or  ten  days  they 
usually  disappear. 

Yellow  Spots  are  often  annoying  blemishes  ;  Sometimes  they  can  be 


CARE  AND  TREATMENT  OF  THE  SKIN.         351 

removed  by  rubbing  with  flower  of  sulphur  frequently.  This  is  also  a 
safe  remedy :  One  ounce  of  strong  sulphur  water,  one-quarter  ounce 
of  lemon  juice,  cinnamon  water  one  drachm.  Wash  with  this  three  or 
four  times  a  day.  Sometimes  these  spots  indicate  derangement  of  the 
stomach,  and  may  require  medical  advice. 

To  Remove  Freckles — Put  one  ounce  of  alum,  same  of  lemon  juice 
in  a  pint  of  rose-water ;  apply  at  night. 

Scrape  horse-radish  into  a  cup  of  sour  milk  (cold) ;  let  it  stand 
twelve  hours  ;  strain  and  apply  two  or  three  times  a  day. 

Mix  lemon  juice  one  ounce,  powdered  borax  quarter  drachm,  sugar 
half  a  drachm  ;  keep  for  a  few  days  in  a  glass  bottle  and  apply  occa- 
sionally. 

Muriate  of  ammonia  half-drachm,  lavender  water  two  drachms,  dis- 
tilled water  half-pint ;  apply  two  or  three  tijnes  a  day. 

Into  half  a  pint  of  milk  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  with  a  spoonful 
of  brandy,  and  boil,  skimming  well ;  add  a  drachm  of  rock  alum  ;  apply 
at  night.  The  above  are  all  good  and  have  been  used  effectually, 
though  nothing  will  take  freckles  off  permanently. 

To  Remove  Wrmkles — Put  pieces  of  court  plaster  on  the  face  where 
the  wrinkles  are  incHned  to  come,  just  before  going  to  bed,  and  remove 
in  the  morning.  The  plaster  contracts  the  skin  and  prevents  its  sinking 
into  creases  and  lines.  It  also  protects  and  softens  the  skin.  Warm 
water  should  always  be  used  to  wash  the  face  in,  as  it  keeps  off 
wrinkles.     Tar  soap  is  the  French  specific  for  incipient  wrinkles. 

To  Retriove  Moles — Moisten  a  stick  of  nitrate  of  silver  and  touch  the 
mole ;  it  will  turn  black  and  sore,  but  will  soon  dry  up  and  fall  off.  If 
not  successful,  try  again.  Or,  into  a  pint  bottle  of  rum  put  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  of  sulphur ;  apply  once  a  day  and  the  moth  patches 
will  disappear  in  two  or  three  weeks. 

To  Remove  Tan — Mix  magnesia  in  soft  water  to  the  consistency  of 
paste,  spread  on  the  face  and  allow  it  to  remain  a  minute  or  two,  then 
wash  off  with  castile  soap-suds,  and  rinse  in  soft  water. 

Face  Eruptions  —Dissolve  an  ounce  of  borax  in  a  quart  of  water, 
and  apply  this  with  a  fine  sponge  every  evening  before  going  to  bed. 
Or  flowers  of  sulphur ;  rub  it  in  well  with  the  fingers,  and  then  rub  it 
off  with  a  dry  towel,  or  rub  with  a  coarse  towel  and  then  apply  cold 
cream. 

Refined  chalk  made  into  a  thick  plaster  with  one-third  as  much  gly- 
cerine as  water  and  spread  on  the  parts  will  cool  inflammation  and 
reduce  redness  of  the  nose  or  face. 

To  Remove  Phnples — Two  ounces  of  bicarbonate  of  soda,  one 
drachm  of  glycerine,  one  ounce  of  spermaceti  ointment,  or  a  weak  solu- 
tion of  carbolic  acid  in  rainwater  will  cure  pimples  and  simple  eruptions. 


352  THE  TOILET. 


COSMETICS  AND  LOTIONS. 


A  cheap  and  simple  cosmetic  is  made  by  taking  one-half  pound  of 

white  soap ;  melt  over  a  slow  fire  with  one  gill  of  sweet  oil ;  add  a  tea- 
cupful  of  clear  white  sea  sand,  and  stir  till  cold.  This  will  make  the 
hands  remarkably  soft  and  white. 

Cosmetic  Gloves — (For  night  wear) — Yolk  of  two  fresh  eggs,  oil  of 
almond,  two  tablespoonfuls ;  tincture  benzoin,  one  dessert  spoonful; 
rosewater,  one  tablespoonful.  Beat  well  together.  Keep  tightly  corked. 
Paint  the  inside  of  the  gloves  every  night,  and  do  not  wear  the  same 
pair  longer  than  two  weeks.  Use  kid  or  dog  skin  gloves,  if  you  can- 
not get  India  rubber  gloves,  which  are  the  best. 

Cold  Cream — Take  of  oil  of  almond  two  ounces,  spermaceti  half  an 
ounce,  white  wax  one  drachm.  Melt  together  and  while  cooling  add 
two  ounces  of  rosewater,  stirring  it  until  cold. 

Face  Washes — Powdered  borax,  half  an  ounce  ;  glycerine,  one  ounce ; 
camphor  water,  one  quart.  Wash  the  face  with  the  above  twice  a  day. 
Excellent  lotion  for  sunburn  and  tan. 

Fresh  lemon  juice,  a  wineglassful;  rain  water,  one  pint;  attar  of 
roses,  a  few  drops ;  mix  and  keep  in  a  well  corked  bottle.  Use  twice 
or  three  times  a  day.     Splendid  for  "  muddiness  "  of  the  complexion. 

Milk  of  Roses — Put  into  a  small  bottle  two  ounces  of  rosewater,  one 
teaspoonful  of  oil  of  sweet  almonds,  ten  drops  of  oil  of  tar.  Shake 
the  bottle  till  the  whole  is  combined  and  you  have  a  nice  cosmetic  to 
apply  to  the  skin  after  washing. 

Harmless  Face  Powders — Rice  powder,  though  expensive,  is  war- 
ranted perfectly  harmless.  Refined  chalk  is  the  safest  thing  to  use, 
and  costs  far  less  than  if  put  up  under  some  other  name  and  sold  in 
boxes.  Cascarilla  powder  is  much  used  by  Cuban  ladies,  and  is  con- 
sidered harmless.  Wash  the  face  with  thick  suds  from  glycerine  soap, 
and,  when  dry,  dust  on  the  powder  with  a  puff  or  piece  of  chamois  skin. 

Toilet  Ice — Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  mutton  suet,  melt  it 
slowly,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  scorch.  Put  in  your  glass  box  or 
cup,  four  or  five  drops  of  sweet  oil,  and,  if  you  please,  add  a  few  drops 
of  some  liquid  scent ;  then  pour  the  hot  tallow  in  the  box  and  set  it  in 
a  cool  place  to  harden.  For  summer  use  the  oil  is  not  needed,  as  it 
will  be  soft  enough  without  it.  Keep  it  in  glass.  It  is  an  excellent 
remedy  for  parched  and  chapped  lips  and  hands,  or  abrasions. 

Camphor  Balls — Clarify  a  pound  of  mutton  suet  and  add  to  it  three 
pounds  of  spermaceti,  two  of  white  wax  and  one  of  gum  camphor  cut 
into  veiy  small  pieces.  Melt  these  together  with  gentle  heat,  and  stir 
until  the  camphor  is  dissolved  ;  then  pour  it  into  molds.  It  is  very  good 
for  rough  hands. 

Remedy  for  Chafing — Make  a  lotion  of  alum  in  water.     A  piece  of 


BATHING.  353 

alum  as  large  as  a  hazel  nut  dissolved  in  half  a  pint  of  water  is  suffi- 
cient. It  will  quickly  heal  excoriated  skin  and  harden  the  unabraded 
cuticle.     It  is  also  good  for  tender  feet  and  soft  corns. 

For  Chapped  Hands — The  nicest  preparation  for  chapped  hands  is 
composed  of  quince  seed  and  whisky.  There  is  no  rule  as  to  propor- 
tion. Put  the  seeds  in  a  botile,  and  pour  in  enough  whisky  to  cover 
them.  As  this  thickens  add  more  whisky  until  it  is  of  the  right  con- 
sistency. This  healing  preparation  is  far  superior  to  glycerine,  as  it 
dries  off  quickly  and  leaves  a  most  agreeable  odor.  Or  this :  One  parr, 
of  glycerine,  four  of  Pond's  extract  of  witch  hazel,  and  four  of  water; 
put  in  a  bottle  and  shake  wtII  ;  it  is  ready  for  use  immediately ;  it  is 
well  to  shake  thoroughly  each  time  of  using, 

When  the  Feet  are  Sore,  as  from  long  walking,  take  a  tablespoonful 
of  epsom  salts,  five  or  six  drops  of  tincture  of  capsicum,  and  put  it  in  a 
shallow  basin  of  water — just  enough  to  cover  the  soles  of  the  feet — and 
soak  them  for  twenty  minutes.  One  v/ill  be  surprised  at  the  relief  it 
will  give.  It  will  also  cure  burning  of  the  feet  that  so  many  are  troubled 
with  in  the  summer. 

BATHING. 

All  cannot  with  equal  safety  take  baths  of  the  same  temperature  or 
observe  the  same  hours ;  but  as  a  rule  a  bath  at  ninety  degrees,  for 
cleansing  purposes,  may  be  taken  about  twice  a  week  in  winter,  just 
before  retiring  to  sleep,  and  a  tepid  or  cold  bath  (if  one  can  stand  the 
latter)  eveiy  morning,  if  convenient ;  or  a  sponge  bath — the  application 
of  the  cold  water  being  of  but  a  few  moments'  duration — followed  by  a 
thorough  rubbing  with  a  Turkish  towel  and  flesh  brush.  Wet  the  head 
first  and  it's  seldom  you  will  take  cold.  A  tablespoonful  of  ammonia 
put  in  a  pail  of  water  and  used  for  bathing  will  have  the  same  mvig- 
orating  effect  as  a  sea  bath.  If  in  the  summer  time,  it  will  have  the 
same  exhilarating  effect  as  if  you  had  taken  a  plunge  in  the  sea,  and  the 
skin  will  be  firm  and  cool.  The  ammonia  is  a  good  absorbent  of  per- 
spiration ;  for  such  cases  use  a  teaspoonful  to  a  washbowl  of  water,  but 
do  not  wet  the  hands  or  face  with  undiluted  ammonia  as  it  is  very  apt 
to  injure  the  skin.  ' 

If  you  must  bathe  in  the  bedroom,  then  get  a  square  of  white  enam- 
eled cloth,  sew  a  heavy  rope  around  the  edge  tightly,  and  you  can  take 
a  shower-bath  without  getting  the  water  on  the  carpet.  Use  the  wrong 
side,  as  the  oil-cloth  is  apt  to  chill  one.  Get  a  large  sponge,  and  be 
sure  and  keep  it  clean.  One  hardly  realizes  how  dirty  a  sponge  may 
get  till  they  try  to  wash  one  in  soda  and  water,  then  the  dirt  will  appear. 

There  are  vegetable  cloths — in  the  South  they  call  them  "  dish-cloths  " 
— that  make  as  good  an  invigorator  for  the  skin  as  any  flesh  brush. 
These  can  be  bought  at  almost  any  place  where  they  have  bathing 


354  THE  TOILET. 

appliances,  for  they  are  used  in  nearly  all  Turkish  bath  houses  in  place 
of  sponges. 

The  next  care  is  the  soap.  The  best  is  the  cheapest.  Always  use 
the  best  of  soaps  for  toilet  purposes,  as  cheap  poor  soaps  do  more 
towards  injuring  the  skin  than  any  other  cause.  The  safest  soap 
in  market  is  the  colorless  castile  ;  olive  oil  soap  is  also  good  ;  glycerine 
soap  is  good  for  winter  use,  especially  if  the  skin  is  liable  to  chap  ; 
tar  soap  is  recommended  for  those  who  have  eruptions  of  the  skin; 
oatmeal  soap  will  make  the  hands  soft  and  white.  Soaps  made  from 
vegetable  oils  are  much  better  than  those  made  of  the  fat  of  animals ; 
almond  oil  soap  is  a  favorite  on  account  of  its  delightful  perfume  taken 
from  the  oil  of  which  it  is  made,  and  therefore  requires  no  other  scent- 
ing. Lard  soaps  are  hard  and  solid  and  by  'some  are  preferred  to  veg- 
etable soaps.  Lettuce  soap  is  highly  recommended,  but  is  quite  expen- 
sive, and  is  probably  no  purer  than  any  of  the  others. 

Bath  towels  are  not  half  large  enough.  The  best  way  is  to  buy 
coarse  crash,  or  Turkish  toweling,  by  the  yard,  and  then  get  them  long 
enough  to  nearly  envelope  the  body  so  as  to  dry  it  at  once.  Many 
complain  that  the  bath  is  injurious  to  them,  that  they  take  cold  after- 
ward ;  but  if  they  take  a  tepid  water  bath,  and  then  immediately  after- 
ward a  sponge  bath  of  cold  water,  rubbing  the  body  briskly,  as  soon  as 
through,  with  a  coarse  towel,  it  is  utterly  impossible  to  catch  cold.  The 
difficulty  is  usually  that  the  first  water  is  too  warm,  and  then  they  have 
not  the  courage  for  the  bath  of  cold  \ater,  and  in  this  way  one  will 
take  cold.  The  bath  should  never  chill  one,  but  what  is  a  rule  for  one 
is  not  for  another ;  the  only  way  is  to  study  one's  nature  and  then  adapt 
the  rules  to  it. 

For  weak  people,  especially  in  summer,  a  gill  of  ammonia  in  a  small  tub 
of  water,  or  some  rock  salt  is  a  wonderful  invigorator,  almost  as  good  as 
a  sea  bath.  A  prominent  writer  on  health  thus  gives  the  directions  for 
a  bath :  Fill  your  basin  about  two-thirds  full  of  fresh  water ;  dip  your 
face  in  the  water,  then  your  hands ;  soap  the  hands  well,  and  pass  the 
soaped  hands  with  gentle  friction  over  the  face.  Having  performed 
this  part  thoroughly,  dip  the  face  in  the  water  a  second  time,  and  rinse 
it  completely.  You  may  add  very  much  to  the  luxury  of  the  latter  part 
of  the  process,  by  having  a  second  basin  ready  with  fresh  water  to  per- 
form a  final  rinsing.  Having  well  rubbed  the  neck  with  the  soaped 
hands,  thoroughly  bathe  the  neck,  chest  and  arms  by  means  of  a  large 
sponge  dipped  in  cold  water — the  colder  the  better.  To  cleanse  the 
back,  soap  a  piece  of  flannel  a  yard  and  a  half  long  and  half  a  yard 
wide,  folded  lengthwise ;  dip  in  cold  water,  and  work  it  from  right  to 
left,  up  and  down,  until  the  back  is  thoroughly  cleaned.  Then  put  the 
hands,  forearms  and  arms  into  the  basin  of  water  as  far  as  they  will 


CAKIL  OF  THE  TEETH.  355 

reach,  and  keep  them  m  for  a  few  seconds.  The  wet  parts  should  be 
expeditiously  dried. 

If  one  is  strong  they  will  prefer  the  cold  water,  but  if  weak  or  in  poor 
health  just  take  the  chill  off.  If  the  loins  or  back  are  at  all  weak  rub 
them  with  water  in  which  a  handful  of  salt  has  been  dissolved.  This 
is  very  strengthening  to  a  weak  back. 

The  feet  and  legs  ought  every  morning  to  be  bathed,  not  by  stand- 
ing in  the  water  while  the  body  is  being  washed,  but  by  putting  one  foot 
in  the  water,  and  then  the  other,  washing  quickly  with  a  sponge,  and 
allowing  the  water  to  trickle  from  the  sponge,  from  the  knees  down- 
ward. The  feet  ought  to  be  kept  as  clean  as  the  hands,  and  if  the  nails 
are  cut  as  often,  and  they  are  attended  to  carefully,  it  will  be  a  means 
of  warding  off  corns  and  bunions. 

The  best  time  to  bathe  is  just  before  going  to  bed.  It  will  assist 
one's  sleep,  giving  a  quiet,  restful  feeling.  .  Never  wash  the  hair  before 
going  to  bed,  as  one  is  apt  to  catch  cold.  Reserve  that  for  a  day  when 
you  can  stay  in  the  house.  Many  take  a  bath  on  tirst  rising,  and  this 
seems  to  agree  with  them,  but  on  others  it  has  a  very  depressing  and 
exhausting  effect.     Never  take  a  bath  just  after  a  meal. 

If  oatmeal  is  used  in  the  water  while  bathing  the  hands  and  face,  it 
will  soften  and  whiten  them  ;  or  rubbed  on  dry  alter  the  hands  and  face 
have  been  dried  with  a  soft  towel. 

CARE  OF  THE  TEETH. 

The  comfort  of  a  pure  breath,  and  the  agreeable  effect  of  a  clean  and 
healthy  mouth,  is  something  to  rejoice  over  and  he  proud  of  in  these 
days  of  dentistry,  when  they,  the  dentists,  seem  to  be  the  best  patron- 
ized of  any  in  the  medical  profession.  Decay  is  not  the  only  enemy  to 
the  teeth,  but  the  accumulation  of  tartar  upon  them  has  an  equally  bad 
effect.  This  must  in  any  case  be  removed  by  an  experienced  dentist, 
and  after  that  they  must  be  carefully  attended  to. 

Simple  measures  regularly  employed  are  sufficient  for  healthy  mouths. 
Patent  nostrums  and  advertised  powders  and  washes  should  be  avoided. 
Any  wash  that  is  recommended  for  whitening  the  teeth  is  either  inca- 
pable of  accomplishing  what  is  claimed  for  it,  or  does  so  at  the  expense 
of  the  integrity  of  the  enamel.  The  habitual  use  of  astringent  washes 
or  powders,  so  far  from  being  conducive  to  the  health  of  the  gums,  is 
injurious.  Strongly  alkaline  washes  are  also  injurious.  Washes  or 
powders  containing  alum,  cream  of  tartar,  charcoal,  ground  barks  or 
acids  of  any  description,  are  injurious,  either  because  of  a  chemical 
action  upon  the  teeth,  or  because  the  ingredients  are  apt  to  get  under 
the  gums.  Tooth  powders  containing  excessively  gritty  or  abrasive 
ingredients,  do  injury  by  roughening  instead  of  polishing  the  enamel 
surfaces  of  the  teeth.     Perhaps  there  is  no  agent  in  common  use  for 


356  777^"  TOILET. 

cleansing  the  teeth  worthy  of  such  utter  condemnation  as  powdered 
charcoal.  Its  continued  use,  besides  loosening  the  teeth,  causes  the 
gums  to  assume  a  tattooed  appearance. 

A  mouth  wash  may  be  anodyne,  astringent,  stimulant  or  tonic  ;  but 
if  the  secretions  are  natural  and  the  gums  healthy,  the  wash  should 
merely  be  pleasant  to  the  taste  and  agreeable  in  odor.  A  tooth  powder 
for  a  healthy  condition  of  the  mouth  and  teeth,  should  be  purely  a 
mechanical  agent,  possessing  a  hardness  sufficient  for  the  removal, 
without  liability  to  injure  the  enamel,  of  slight  accumulations  of  food 
and  tartar, 

A  large  majority  of  the  people  err  in  the  selection  of  a  tooth  brush. 
Most  of  the  brushes  in  the  market  are  too  stiff  and  too  large.  The 
habitual  use  of  such  brushes  is  attended  with  bad  results.  Again,  those 
who  are  most  solicitous  to  secure  perfect  cleanliness  of  the  teeth  are  apt 
to  err  decidedly  in  a  too  vigorous  use  of  the  brush.  Many  sets  of  teeth 
have  been  ruined  by  too  much  or  injudicious  brushing.  Skill  and  not 
force,  faithfulness  and  not  muscle,  are  required  to  secure  the  best 
results.  Most  persons  scrub  the  outer  surface  of  the  teeth,  as  if  to 
clean  by  scouring  or  friction  were  the  object  in  using  a  brush.  A  very 
moderate  appHcation  of  a  proper  brush,  with  a  gentle  frictional  powder, 
is  sufficient  for  the  external  surface  of  the  teeth,  and  is  desirable  in 
order  to  prevent  the  tendency  to  unsightly  discolorations,  but  as  a  pre- 
vention of  decay  is  the  least  useful  mode  of  brushing. 

The  brush  should  be  moderately  soft,  the  bristles  should  belong  and 
elastic  and  of  uneven  lengths,  so  as  to  facilitate  their  introduction 
between  the  teeth.  The  upper  teeth  should  be  brushed  downward  and 
the  lower  teeth  upward,  both  on  the  outer  and  inner  surfaces,  thus 
avoiding  crowding  the  gums  from  the  neck  of  the  teeth  while  tending 
to  the  dislodgment  of  any  deposits  between  them.  Once  daily  is  quite 
often  enough  to  use  a  powder,  if  any  is  used  at  all,  and  the  best  time  is 
just  before  retiring.  The  morning  cleansing  may  be  properly  per- 
formed with  the  aid  of  a  little  pure,  mild  soap,  such  as  old  castile  or  a 
reliable  tooth  soap  made  expressly  for  the  purpose.  After  meals  it  will 
be  sufficient  to  use  tepid  water,  to  which  has  been  added  a  few  drops 
of  spirit  of  ammonia,  or  a  little  bichromate  of  soda,  or  lime  water, 
simply  to  neutralize  any  acidity. 

The  use  of  a  quill  toothpick  after  meals  to  dislodge  particles  of  food 
from  between  the  teeth  is  advisable,  as  is  also  the  use  of  a  strand  of 
wax  floss  silk  passed  between  them  at  least  once  daily.  As  a  frictional 
powder  precipitated  chalk  is  a  safe  and  generally  efficient  agent.  When 
this  is  found  insufficient  to  prevent  the  staining  or  discoloration  of  the 
teeth,  it  may  properly  be  combined  in  various  proportions  with  the  inside 
of  the  cuttlefish  bone,  or  with  a  smaller  quantity  of  ver^'  finely  powdered 
pumice  stone.     In  case  the  mouth  is  habitually  alkaline,  powdered  orris 


CARE  OF  THE  HAIR.  357 

root  combined  with  the  cuttlefish  or  pumice  as  above,  may  be  substituted 
for  the  chalk. 

All  acid  food,  drinks,  medicines,  toothwashes  and  powders  are  very 
injurious  to  the  teeth.  If  a  tooth  is  put  in  cider,  vinegar,  lemon  juice 
or  tartaric  acid,  in  a  few  hours  the  enamel  will  be  completely  destroyed, 
so  that  it  can  be  removed  by  the  finger  nail  as  if  it  were  chalk.  Most 
people  have  experienced  what  is  commonly  called  teeth  set  on  edge. 
The  explanation  of  it  is,  that  the  acid  of  the  fruit  that  has  been  eaten 
has  so  softened  the  enamel  of  the  tooth,  that  the  least  pressure  is  felt 
by  the  exceedingly  small  nerves  which  pervade  the  thin  membranes 
which  connect  the  enamel  and  the  bony  part  of  the  tooth.  Such  an 
effect  cannot  be  produced  without  injuring  the  enamel.  True,  it  will 
become  hard  again  when  the  acid  has  been  removed  by  the  fluids  of 
the  mouth,  just  as  an  ^<g%  shell  that  1  as  been  softened  in  this  way 
becomes  hard  again  by  being  put  in  water.  When  the  effect  of  sour 
fruit  on  the  teeth  subsides,  they  feel  as  well  as  ever,  but  they  are  not  as 
well ;  and  the  oftener  it  is  repeated  the  sooner  the  disastrous  conse- 
quences are  manifested. 

Sweets  are  almost  as  injurious  to  the  teeth  as  the  acids,  especially 
candy.  A  raisin  skin  left  on  the  teeth  is  said  to  destroy  the  enamel 
within  a  very  short  time.  Very  cold  or  hot  water  also  leaves  its  effect ; 
tepid  water  is  better  than  either.  If  the  teeth  are  crusted  with  tartar, 
it  can  be  removed  by  rubbing  them  with  a  little  pulverized  pumice  stone 
(which  can  be  purchased  at  the  drug  store),  either  with  a  brush  or  soft 
pine  stick.  This  leaves  them  beautifully  white  and  clean,  but  must  not 
be  used  oftener  than  once  a  month,  or  it  will  destroy  the  enamel.  After 
using  the  toothbrush,  if  a  small  piece  of  Hcorice  is  dissolved  in  the 
mouth,  it  will  secure  a  sweet  breath.  This  will  even  counteract  the 
effects  of  indigestion,  has  no  smell,  and  sweetens  the  mouth  and 
stomach. 

The  tincture  of  krameria,  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  good  eau 
de  cologne  and  diluted  with  water,  makes  an  elegant  and  delightful 
astringent  mouth-wash ;  tincture  of  myrrh,  so  often  prescribed,  is  of 
questionable  value  as  a  mouth- wash.  A  tablespoonful  of  the  tincture 
of  calendala  to  a  goblet  of  water,  makes  a  pleasant  and  efficient  mouth- 
wash, for  use  after  the  removal  of  deposits  above  the  teeth  or  after 
extraction  of  the  teeth. 

It  is  useful  also  to  chew  a  bit  of  orris  root,  or  to  wash  the  mouth  with 
tincture  of  myrrh,  or  .to  dissolve  a  bit  of  burned  alum  in  the  mouth. 
To  clean  the  teeth,  rub  them  with  the  ashes  of  burned  bread.  It  must 
be  thoroughly  burned,  not  charred. 

CARE  OF  THE  HAIR. 

It  is  strange  that  women  have  been  willing  to  tamper  with  this  crown 
of  woman's  glory,  washing  it  with  all  sorts  of  poisons,  taking  the  life 


358  THE  TOILET. 

out  of  it  with  withering  applications,  torturing  it  with  pins,  hot  irons, 
and  strings ;  indeed,  some  have  gone  so  far  as  to  use  liquor  to  make  the 
hair  curl,  which  contained  both  quicksilver  and  aquafortis,  and  which 
did  make  it  curl  simply  by  shrinking  it  up  as  would  the  flame  of  a  candle, 
producing  total  loss  of  hair,  paralysis,  and  sometimes  even  idiocy,  thus 
failing  in  its  purpose — that  of  enhancing  personal  beauty  ! 

There  are  other  and  more  rational  methods  of  improving  the  hair  that 
if  used  will  repay  you  tenfold  in  abundance,  length  and  glossiness  for 
all  the  care  you  ever  bestow  upon  it.  Above  all  things  keep  the  head 
clean,  not  by  washing  alone,  for  a  too  copious  use  of  water  is  as  dele- 
terious to  the  beauty  of  the  hair  as  its  entire  neglect.  Once  a  month  in 
summer  is  quite  often  enough  to  resort  to  the  shampooing  process. 
Ladies  who  spend  the  summer  at  the  seaside  and  take  the  bath  on  the 
head  as  well  as  on  other  parts  of  the  body,  will  discover  the  invigorating 
effects  of  the  salt  water  in  the  growth  and  thickness  of  the  hair.  Those 
who  have  not,  may,  with  safety  and  profit,  make  use  of  the  sea  salt  to 
be  obtained  at  the  druggist's,  dissolved  in  tepid  water.  After  the  bath, 
however,  great  care  should  be  taken  that  all  the  salt  is  removed  from 
the  hair  by  scrubbing  vigorously  with  dry  towels,  or  thoroughly  brush- 
ing with  a  stiff  brush.  The  very  best  wash  for  the  hair  is  the  yolk  of 
an  ^%%  beaten  into  tepid  water,  the  head  afterward  rinsed  in  warm 
water  ;  then,  if  it  seems  harsh  and  wiry,  a  small  quantity  of  Macassar 
oil  rubbed  on  the  scalp  will  soften  and  beautify  it,  and  under  no  circum- 
stance should  the  daily  brushing  be  dispensed  with. 

There  are  sanitary  reasons  also  for  keeping  the  head  clean.  One  of 
our  distinguished  physicians  who  has  spent  much  time  at  quarantine, 
says :  "  Those  whose  heads  are  kept  thoroughly  washed  every  day 
rarely  take  contagious  diseases,  but  where  the  hair  is  allowed  to  become 
dirty  and  matted  it  is  hardly  possible  to  escape  infection." 

Many  persons  find  speedy  relief  for  nervous  headache  by  washing  the 
hair  thoroughly  in  weak  soda  water,  while  others  find  it  the  greatest 
relief  in  cases  of  cold,  the  symptoms  entirely  leaving  the  eyes  and  nose 
after  one  thorough  washing  of  the  hair. 

There  is  a  plan  which  even  the  busiest  among  us  may  find  time  to 
test :  At  least  twenty  minutes  should  be  given  to  brushing  the  hair  each 
day  with  a  brush  of  good  stiff  bristles.  Before  beginning  apply  a  small 
quantity  of  the  following  :  Tincture  of  cantharides,  one-half  ounce ;  bay 
rum  and  cologne,  two  ounces  e.ich,  one  drachm  of  oil  of  rosemary.  A 
o-reat  improvement  will  be  noticeable  in  a  short  time,  and  those  ladies 
who  have  red  or  blonde  hair  will  find  it  has  grown  darker.  Blonde  hair 
requires  different  and  more  care  than  dark,  and  the  following  prepara- 
tion will  prevent  its  falling  out  without  affecting  its  color:  Aqua- 
ammonia,  two  drachms ;  bay  rum,  two  ounces ;  cologne,  one  ounce, 
and  rosemary  water,  three  ounces.     Brush  well  into  the  scalp  every 


CARE  OF  THE  HAIR.  359 

morning  or  night.  The  weak  hairs,  by  this  process,  grow  stronger,  and 
the  coarse  fall  out,  causing  the  hair  to  become  healthy  and  curly.  This 
every  day  brushing  is  worth  more  than  all  the  curling  fluids,  and  other 
like  humbugs,  ever  invented. 

Don't  commence  by  pinching,  crimping  and  curling  your  children's 
hair,  as  nothing  is  so  disastrous  to  its  ultimate  health.  Do  not  make  the 
mistake  of  cutting  off  their  soft,  glossy,  "  baby  hair,"  under  the  impres- 
sion that  the  second  crop  will  be  richer  and  more  abundant. 

The  most  beautiful  heads  of  hair  ever  seen  are  those  which  scissors 
have  never  touched.  A  woman's  hair  to  be  beautiful  must  be  "  long, 
abundant,  undulating,  fine  of  texture,  and  of  brilliant  surface."  Use 
the  scissors  and  it  will  never  become  so,  for  cutting  the  hair  renders  it 
coarse  and  far  less  liable  to  curl. 

CurHng-tongs  are  another  abomination,  for  when  the  texture  of  the 
hair  is  destroyed  by  heat  it  is  really  destroyed,  and  all  the  so-called 
■"  restoratives  "  in  the  universe  could  not  bring  it  to  life  and  beauty 
again. 

Dandruff  generally  comes  from  an  over-heated  or  feverish  state  of 
the  scalp.  The  cure  is  simple :  Brush  it  well  every  day,  applying  a 
mixture  of  bay  rum  and  brandy  ;  avoid  much  oiling,  and  wash  often 
with  an  egg  and  soft,  tepid  water. 

Avoid  all  the  so-called  "  hair  restoratives,"  for  they  are  poisonous 
and  filthy,  containing  every  one  of  them  sugar  of  lead,  sulphur,  cop- 
peras, etc.  These  preparations  will  darken  the  hair,  but  at  the  expense 
of  health.  Those  who  advertise  their  nostrums  as  restoring  the  growth 
on  perfectly  bald  heads,  advertise  falsehoods.  If  the  scalp  is  glossy 
and  no  small  hairs  discernible,  the  roots  are  dead  and  there  is  no  rem- 
edy. However,  if  small  hairs  are  to  be  seen,  there  is  hope.  Brush 
well,  and  bathe  the  bald  spot  every  day  with  cold,  soft  water ;  carbon- 
ate of  ammonia,  one  drachm ;  tincture  of  cantharides,  four  drachms; 
bay  rum,  four  ounces,  and  castor  oil,  two  ounces. 

For  those  elderly  ladies  who  desire  to  keep  the  hair  from  turning 
gray,  the  following  is  efficient  and  harmless:  Infuse  four  ounces  of  the 
hulls  of  butternuts  into  a  quart  of  water  for  an  hour,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  copperas  and  apply  with  a  brush  every  third  day^ 

All  depilatories  for  the  removal  of  superfluous  hair  are  somewhat 
dangerous,  unless  use.,  with  great  discretion.  There  is  no  way  to 
remove  it  but  by  diluted  acids  or  caustics,  patiently  applied  time  after 
time,  as  the  hair  makes  its  appearance.  The  mildest  depilatories  known 
are  parsley  water,  acacia  juice  and  the  gum  of  ivy.  It  is  said  that  nut 
oil  will  prevent  the  hair  from  growmg.  The  juice  of  the  milk  thistle, 
mixed  with  oil,  according  to  medical  authority,  prevents  the  hair  from 
growing  too  low  on  the  forehead,  or  straggling  on  the  nape  of  the  neck. 
Muriatic  acid,  veiy  slightly  reduced,  applied  with  a  sable  pencil,  will 


360  THE  TOILET. 

destroy  the  hair ;  and  to  prevent  its  growing  the  part  may  be  bathed 
with  strong  camphor  or  clear  ammonia.  The  depilatories  sold  in  the 
shop  are  strong  caustics,  and  leave  the  skin  very  hard  and  unpleasant, 
Bathe  the  upper  hp,  or  other  feature  afflic  ed  wnth  superfluous  hair, 
with  ammonia  or  camphor  as  strong  as  can  be  borne,  and  the  hair  will 
die  out  in  a  few  weeks.  Moles,  with  long  hairs  in  them,  should  be 
touched  with  lunar  caustic  repeatedly.  Care  should  be  taken  to  brush 
the  back  hair  upward  from  childhood,  to  prevent  the  disfiguring  growth 
of  weak,  loose  hairs  on  the  neck.  Fine,  clean  wood  ashes,  mixed  with 
a  little  water  to  form  a  paste,  make  a  tolerable  depilator)--  for  weak  hair, 
without  any  pain.     Strong  pearlash  washes  also  kill  out  poor  hair. 

Pale  hair  shows  a  want  of  iron  in  the  system,  and  this  is  to  be  sup- 
plied by  a  free  use  of  beefsteak,  soups,  pure  beef  gravies  and  red  wines. 
Sandy  hair,  when  well  brushed  and  kept  glossy  with  the  natural  oil  of 
the  scalp,  changes  to  a  warm,  golden  tinge.  The  eyelashes  may  be 
improved  by  delicately  cutting  off  their  forked  and  gossamer  points, 
and  anointing  with  a  salve  of  two  drachms  of  ointment  of  nitric  oxide 
of  mercury  and  one  drachm  of  lard.  Mix  the  lard  and  ointment  well 
and  anoint  the  edges  of  the  eyelids  night  and  morning,  washing  after 
each  time  with  warm  milk  and  water.  This,  it  is  said,  will  restore  the 
lashes  when  lost  by  disease.  The  effect  of  black  lashes  is  to  deepen  the 
color  of  gray  eyes. 

CARE  OF  THE  HANDS. 

All  admire  pretty  hands,  and  yet  how  few  are  the  happy  possessors 
of  them.  The  principal  cause  of  an  imperfect  hand  is  the  abuse  and 
neglect  of  it  while  young.  Neglecting  the  nails,  or  clipping  them  too 
closely,  gives  the  hand  a  stubby  look  that  all  the  care  in  after  years  can- 
not remedy.  If  children  could  be  taught  while  young  that  the  hand 
was  of  due  importance  with  the  teeth,  and  that  the  same  care  must  be 
bestowed  upon  it,  there  would  be  fewer  homely  hands  upon  grown- 
up people.  Many  people,  who  are  fastidious  in  all  other  parts  of  the 
toilet,  often  ignore  the  hand,  except  by  washing  and  keeping  the  nails 
clean.  Then  there  are  those  who  sleep  in  gloves  to  keep  the  hand  soft, 
but  this  is  a  habit  not  conducive  to  health,  as  the  hands  have  breathing 
places  as  well  as  the  rest  of  the  body. 

To  soften  the  hands,  fill  a  wash  basin  half  full  of  fine  white  sand  and 
soapsuds  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  Wash  the  hands  in  this  five  minutes 
at  a  time,  brushing  and  rubbing  them  in  the  sand.  The  best  is  flint 
sand,  or  the  white  powdered  quartz  sold  for  filters.  It  may  be  used 
repeatedly  by  pouring  the  water  out  and  adding  fresh.  To  keep  it  from 
blowing  about,  rinse  in  warm  lather  of  tine  soap.  After  drying  the 
hands  rub  them  with  dry  bran  or  corn  meal.  Dust  them,  and  finish  by 
rubbing  cold  cream  well  into  the  skin.  This  effectually  removes  the 
roughness  caused  by  housework,  and  should  be  used  every  day,  first 


CARE  OF  THE  HANDS.  361 

removing  ink  or  vegetable  stains  with  acid.  Always  rub  the  spot  with 
cold  cream  or  oil  after  using  acid  on  the  fingers.  The  cream  supplies 
the  place  of  the  natural  oil  of  the  skin,  which  the  acid  removes  with  the 
stain. 

Another  way  is  to  wear  large  mittens  of  cloth  filled  with  wet  bran 
and  tied  closely  at  the  wrist,  but  a  woman  must  have  a  deal  of  pride  to 
make  herself  thus  uncomfortable  for  the  sake  of  havmg  handsome 
hands,  when  there  are  easier  ways  of  improving  them, 

Many  form  their  children's  hands  in  youth  by  keeping  small,  tapering 
thimbles  on  their  fingers  while  asleep.  This  gives  the  fingers  the  taper- 
ing shape  that  is  deemed  so  necessary,  and  that  is  looked  upon  by  many 
as  an  evidence  of  aristocratic  birth.  These  are  not  painful  nor  annoy- 
ing, and  where  is  the  maiden  who  would  not  in  after  years  be  grateful 
to  the  mpther  who  had  taken  so  much  pains  to  have  her  possess  a 
beautiful  hand.  Sweet  almond  oil  rubbed  into  the  skin  will  soften 
them,  and  plastering  them  with  as  much  fine  chalk  as  they  can  take  on 
going  to  bed,  three  nights  in  succession,  will  whiten  the  hands  in  three 
days'  time.  Rubbing  the  hands  with  a  shce  of  raw  potato  will  remove 
vegetable  stains. 

The  avoidance  of  placing  the  hands  in  extreme  temperatures  of 
water  will  quickly  render  them  soft.  Always  washing  the  hands  in 
tepid — not  warm — water,  and,  in  winter,  rubbing  two  or  three  drops  ot 
glycerine  over  them  previous  to  drying  with  a  towel,  will  prevent  rough- 
ness and  redness  of  the  skin.  If  the  glycerine  has  a  little  rose-water 
in  it.  it  is  better  for  some  skins,  for,  to  many,  pure  glycerine  only  injures 
the  skin.  A  free  use  of  glycerine  in  warm  weather  imparts  a  yellow 
tinge  to  the  skin. 

Wipe  the  hands  perfectly  dry  after  immersing  them  in  water ;  this  is 
imperative  if  they  are  desired  to  be  kept  white.  To  keep  the  hands 
from  chapping  in  cold  weather,  use  of  glycerine,  one  ounce;  sper- 
maceti, two  drachms ;  olive  oil.  two  ounces.  Mix  together  with  the  aid 
of  heat.  Apply  this  every  night,  and,  if  time  will  admit  of  it,  every 
morning.  In  winter,  do  not  wash  them  in  cold  or  hot  water.  It  should 
be  just  blood  warm,  and  no  more  nor  less.  Do  not  go  out  of  doors  with 
them  uncovered.  In  summer,  use  cold  water,  unless  the  hands  per- 
spire very  much,  as  the  hands  of  some  people  do.  These  latter  should 
use  tepid  water.  In  warm  weather,  a  good  preparation  for  the  hands 
is  this  :  Take  half  an  ounce  of  powdered  alum,  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
and  mix  together.  Then  add  enough  bran  to  make  into  a  thick  paste. 
Apply  this  once  a  day,  after  washing,  and,  after  rubbing  the  hands 
together  well  for  a  few  minutes,  wipe  off  with  a  soft  towel.  This  will 
give  them  a  soft,  brilliant  hue,  and  check  any  undue  amount  of  perspi- 
ration. What  is  called  cream  of  roses  is  also  an  excellent  preparation 
for  the  hands,  either  in  winter  or  summer.    It  is  made  as  follows  :    Take 


302  THE  TOILET. 

compound  tincture  of  benzoin  half  an  ounce,  almond  and  Malaga  oil  of 
each  an  ounce,  attar  of  roses  five  drops,  ho.ney  two  ounces,  and  enough 
rose-water  to  make  the  mixture  measure  six  ounces.  '  Apply  as  often 
as  you  like.  This  is  equally  good  for  the  face,  and  will  soften  and  keep 
the  skin  white. 

For  very  warm  weather  a  mixture  of  lemon  juice  and  powdered 
borax  is  a  fine  whitener  of  the  skin,  and  is  also  suited  to  those  who 
have  bluish  hands,  in  which  the  blue  veins  show  too  strongly.  Those 
who  have  their  hands  disfigured  by  warts  can  rid  themselves  of  them 
by  using  carbolic  acid,  pure  and  undiluted.  Apply  it  twice  a  day  to 
the  warts,  and  the  acid  will  slowly  destroy  them.  Every  day  they 
should  be  carefully  scraped  with  a  dull  knife,  but  be  careful  not  to 
make  them  bleed.  If  this  fails,  then  use  C.  P.  (chemically  pure)  nitric 
acid.  Use  this  with  care,  as,  if  it  touches  the  skin,  it  will  burn  it,  as 
well  as  impart  to  it  a  nasty-looking  yellow  color,  which  nothing  will 
remove.  The  nitric  acid  should  be  dropped  on  the  wart  with  the  point 
of  a  needle,  and  be  allowed  to  remain  there  before  washing  off,  unti} 
a  burning  sensation  is  felt.  By  both  these  chemicals,  warts  can  always 
be  removed  without  leaving  a  scar. 

Care  of  the  Nails — The  shape  of  the  nails  is  very  significant.  The 
slender,  tapering  nail,  of  a  rosy  pink  line,  with  a  shell-like,  transparent 
edge,  denotes  a  refined  nature.  Broad,  stubby  nails  indicate  coarse- 
ness, though  often  great  good  nature,  and  the  slender,  tapering  nail  is 
often  the  accompaniment  of  a  shrewish  and  quick  temper.  The  best 
appliance  is  a  nail  brush  used  in  water  softened  by  the  addition  of  a 
little  borax  and  really  fine  toilet  soap.  In  well-brushed  and  well-cared- 
for  nails,  the  little  curtain-like  rim  which  surrounds  them  is  well  pushed 
or  rolled  back,  displaying  generally  a  delicate  little  crescent  at  the  root. 
The  skin  of  the  finger  should  never  be  allowed  to  grow  up  on  the  nail. 
In  paring  and  trimming,  the  shape  given  should  always  be  as  long  an 
oval  as  possible.  The  corners  should  be  carefully  and  closely  cut,  and 
the  centers  left  rather  long,  so  as  to  give  the  long,  oval  shape.  In  clean- 
ing the  nails  the  knife  should  never  scrape  off  the  inner  substance  of 
the  nail,  as  this  renders  the  edge  opaque  and  muddy  in  appearance, 
whereas  it  should  be  transparent. 

The  nail  is  susceptible  of  a  high  degree  of  polish  by  rubbing  with  the 
towel  when  drying  the  hands.  At  drug  stores  small  boxes  are  sold 
containing  the  whole  outfit  for  polishing  the  nails,  and  with  directions 
for  using  the  implements.  If  dark  or  brown  looking,  dip  them  once  or 
twice  a  day  in  the  following,  and  then  polish  with  a  towel:  Take  of 
hydrochloric  acid  two  drachms,  soft  water  one  ounce.  This  will  render 
them  exceedingly  white  and  handsome.  When  paring  the  nails  be  care- 
ful not  to  dig  mto  the  quick.  Rubbing  the  nails  with  a  coarse  towel 
keeps  back  the  flesh  from  the  nails ;  this  will  also  keep  the  fingers  free 
from  hang-nails,  and  thus  save  a  deal  of  pain. 


TAXIDERMY,  363 


TAXIDERMY. 

STUFFING  AND  MOUNTING  THE  BIRDS. 

A  popular  way  of  killing  the  bird  is  to  insert,  down  the  throat,  a  nar- 
row, sharp  blade,  making  an  incision  into  the  artery.  This  will  speedilv 
prepare  it  for  the  next  stage  of  the  process,  and  there  is  no  danger  of 
soiling  the  feathers.  Hold  the  bird  closely  in  your  hand  until  all  indi- 
cations of  life  are  extinct,  for  while  the  agonies  of  death  are  upon  it,  it 
must  not  be  allowed  to  flutter,  or  its  plumage  will  be  crushed. 

While  the  body  is  still  warm  remove  the  entrails.  To  effect  this, 
make  an  incision  lengthwise  along  the  lower  back  part  of  the  body. 
All  but  the  smallest  birds  should  have  the  bodies  also  removed,  sever- 
ing them  at  the  second  joint  of  the  leg  and  at  the  neck  close  to  the 
head.  Use  chalk  freely  as  an  absorbent.  Remove  the  eyes  and  brain. 
Fill  the  cavities  of  the  eyes  temporarily  with  cotton,  wool  or  other  soft 
substance.  Rub  the  inner  surface  of  the  skin  with  arsenic,  arrange 
wires  to  preserve  the  natural  shape  and  stuff  immediately,  as  after  dyeing 
the  arsenic  renders  the  skin  too  stiff  for  handling.  Be  careful  how  you 
use  the  arsenic,  for  it  is  dangerous  to  inhale  into  the  lungs. 

Mount  the  birds,  if  possible,  in  a  manner  to  be  suggestive  of  life. 
Let  the  wild  duck  or  fish-hawk  be  surrounded  with  reeds,  rushes, 
aquatic  sprays  or  willow  twigs.  Locate  the  velvety  brown  partridge 
over  her  nest  of  eggs,  partly  hidden  among  half-dry  grass.  Plant  the 
woodpecker  defiantly  upon  a  leafless  bough.  Study  the  habits  of  the 
birds  and  arrange  them  to  conform  with  iheir  life.  Do  not  give  them  a 
stiff  awkward  appearance,  as  if  the  wind  had  blown  them  in  their 
places  and  they  had  frozen  there,  but  arrange  them  as  naturally  as  pos- 
sible. 

The  small  birds  will  do  quite  well  to  have  only  the  entrails  removed. 
Press  their  bodies  quite  up  to  the  beak,  full  of  a  mixture  of  equal  parts 
of  pepper,  salt  and  alum.  Hang  in  a  cool  airy  place  until  the  body  is 
thoroughly  impregnated  by  the  mixture,  suspended  by  the  legs  and  by 
a  thread  passed  through  the  lower  mandible.  After  this  process  is 
quite  complete,  clear  out  the  mixture  and  stuff  with  wool  and  sawdust. 
Sew  up  the  orifice  carefully.  If  eyes  cannot  readily  be  purchased, 
use  glass  beads  or  buttons  instead.  By  the  deft  use  of  paint  brushes  a 
round  glass  button  can  be  tinted  and  transformed  into  quite  a  respect- 
able visionary  orb. 


364  WOODS. 


WOODS. 

EBONIZING  WOOD. 

To  produce  the  characteristic  dull,  dead  .black  of  ebony,  mix  Indian  ink 
and  lampblack  with  water,  and  lay  it  on  your  wood  by  means  of  a  broad 
white  sable  brush ;  if  the  color,  when  dry,  is  not  sufficiently  black  from 
the  first  coat,  apply  a  second  coat  Use  common  American  or  Euro- 
pean Indian  ink ;  lampblack  may  be  made  by  holding  a  plate  over  the 
smoke  of  a  lighted  candle. 

A  FILLER  FOR  POROUS  WOODS. 

Use  boiled  oil  and  corn  starch  stirred  into  a  very  thick  paste.  Add 
a  little  Japan  and  reduce  with  turpentine.  Add  no  color  for  light  ash. 
For  dark  ash  and  chestnut,  use  a  little  raw  sienna;  for  walnut,  burnt 
umber  and  a  slight  amount  of  Venetian  red  ;  for  bay  wood,  burnt 
sienna.  In  no  case  use  more  color  than  is  required  to  overcome  the 
white  appearance  of  the  starch  unless  you  wish  to  stain  the  wood. 
This  filler  is  worked  with  brush  and  rags  in  the  usual  manner. 

Let  it  dry  forty-eight  hours,  or  until  it  is  in  condition  to  rub  down 
with  fine  sandpaper,  without  much  gumming  up,  and  if  an  extra  fine 
finish  is  desired,  fill  ag-ain  with  the  same  materials,  using  less  oil  but 
more  of  japan  and  turpentine.  The  second  coat  will  not  shrink,  it 
being  supported  by  the  first  coat.  When  the  second  coat  is  hard,  the 
wood  is  ready  for  finishing  up  in  any  desired  style  or  to  any  degree  of 
nicety  by  following  up  the  usual  methods.  This  filler  is  intended  for 
those  who  do  carved  work  or  scroll  sawing. 

STAINING  AND  COLORING. 

To  stain  wood  red,  take  two  ounces  of  Brazil  wood  and  two  ounces 
of  potash;  mix  them  with  a  quart  of  water,  and  let  the  composition 
stand  in  a  warm  place  for  several  days,  stirring  it  occasionally ;  with 
this  liquor,  made  boiling  hot,  brush  over  the  wood,  till  the  desired  depth 
of  color  is  ob.ained ;  then  with  another  brush,  brush  over  the  wood, 
while  yet  wet,  with  a  solution  of  alum,  in  the  proportion  of  two  ounces 
of  alum  to  one  quart  of  water. 

For  pink  or  rose  red,  use  double  the  quantity  of  potash. 

For  a  less  bright  red,  dissolve  an  ounce  of  dragon's  blood  in  a  pint 
of  spirits  of  wine,  and  brush  over  the  wood  with  the  tincture,  till  the 
stains  appear  to  be  as  strong  as  is  desired ;  but  this  is,  in  fact,  rather 
lacquering  than  staining. 

For  a  pink  or  rose  red,  add  to  a  gallon  of  the  above  infusion  of  Brazil 


PAINTED  OR  STAINED  FLOORS.  365 

wood,  two  additional  ounces  of  the  pearl  ashes;  the  red  may  be  ren- 
dered yet  paler,  but  it  is  proper,  when  more  than  this  quantity  is  added, 
to  make  the  alum  water  stronger. 

To  stain  wood  black,  brush  the  wood  several  times  with  a  decoction 
of  logwood,  then  several  times  with  common  ink. 

To  make  a  very  fine  black,  brush  over  the  wood  with  a  solution  of 
copper  in  nitric  acid  as  for  blue,  and  afterward  with  logwood,  till  all  the 
greenness  of  the  copper  solution  is  taken  out. 

All  light  woods  may  be  dyed  by  immersion.  A  fine  crimson  is  made 
as  follows :  Take  one  pound  of  ground  Brazil,  boil  in  three  quarts  of 
water,  add  one-half  ounce  of  cochineal,  and  boil  another  half  hour ;  it 
may  be  improved  by  washing  the  wood  previously  with  one-half  ounce 
saffron  to  one  quart  of  water ;  the  wood  should  be  pear  wood  or  syca- 
more. 

Purple  satin  :  One  pound  logwood  chips,  soak  in  three  quarts  of 
water,  boil  well  an  hour ;  add  four  ounces  pearl  ash,  two  ounces  pow- 
dered indigo. 

Black  may  be  produced  by  copperas  and  nut  galls,  or  by  japanning 
with  two  coats  of  black  japan,  after  which  varnish  or  polish,  or  use  size 
and  lampblack,  previous  to  laying  on  japan. 

A  blue  satm :  One  pound  of  oil  of  vitriol  put  in  a  glass  bottle 
with  four  ounces  indigo ;  lay  on  the  same  as  black.  ^  A  fine  green  : 
Three  pints  of  the  strongest  vinegar,  four  ounces  best  powdered  verdi- 
gris (poison),  one-half  ounce  sap  green,  one-half  ounce  indigo.  A 
bright  yellow  may  be  stained  with  aloe ;  the  whole  may  be  varnished  or 
polished. 

IMITATION  BLACK  WALNUT. 

Poplar  or  white  wood  treated  as  follows  will  assume  the  appearance 
of  the  finest  black  walnut :  The  wood  must  be  dry  and  warm,  and  then 
coated  once  or  twice  with  a  strong  aqueous  solution  of  extract  of  wal- 
nut peel.  When  half  dried,  the  wood  is  brushed  with  a  solution  com- 
pounded of  one  part,  by  weight,  of  bichromate  of  potassa  in  five  parts  of 
boiling  water,  and  after  drying  thoroughly  is  rubbed  and  polished.  The 
stain  penetrates  to  the  depth  of  from  one-twelfth  to  one-sixth  of  an  inch. 

PAINTED  OR  STAINED  FLOORS. 

Do  not  choose  a  dark  color  that  will  show  dust  and  footprints.  A 
color  not  far  from  that  of  yellow  pine,  ash  or  butternut,  is  better,  being 
more  serviceable. 

A  painted  floor  or  a  stained  floor  may  each  have  a  stenciled,  painted 
or  stained  border.  The  simpler  the  border  the  more  suitable.  A 
painted  border  can  be  stenciled  on  in  a  darker  shade  of  brown  ;  a  stained 
border  on  a  stained  floor,  in  red  browns  and  oHves,  and  outlined  neatly 


366  WOODS. 

with  black  paint.  These  borders  must,  of  course,  be  put  on  before  the 
waxing,  and  left  till  the  black  paint  is  perfectly  dry. 

The  staining  of  floors  and  wood-finish  is  a  new  departure.  The  stain 
is  very  satisfactory  where  a  tone  of  color  is  wished,  and  yet  a  paint  is 
not  desired.  The  stain  preserves  the  grain  of  the  wood,  and  can  adapt 
itself  to  any  other  decoration  in  the  room.  A  dark  black-walnut  stain 
shows  footprints  and  dust ;  therefore  the  most  serviceable  is  the  natural 
shade  of  the  pine,  only  a  few  shades  darker  than  the  pine  would  be  with 
the  oil  alone.  The  color  of  the  Southern  pine  is  a  good  useful  tone  for 
a  floor.  You  may  have  an  olive  stain,  or  the  color  of  the  California  red- 
wood, or  mahogany  color — anything  you  like.  To  make  the  stain,  have 
ready  a  tin  box  of  prepared  paint,  and  obtain  also  from  the  painter  a 
can  of  oils  prepared  for  floors.  This  is  boiled  linseed  oil,  a  little  tur- 
pentine and  dryer.  Mix  this  oil  with  your  color  till  you  obtain  the 
desired  shade  or  color.  Use  more  or  less  oil  as  you  wish  the  color 
lighter  or  darker.  Try  it  on  a  bit  of  wood  till  you  get  the  color  you 
wish.  Use  raw  sienna  for  the  color  of  southern  pine,  burnt  umber  for 
black  walnut,  and  permanent  green  and  raw  umber,  or  ochre  and  black, 
for  olives. 

When  you  have  your  stain  the  satisfactory  shade,  rub  it  into  the  floor 
well  with  a  woolen  cloth,  and  afterward  rub  off  the  superfluous  color 
carefully  with  another  woolen  cloth.  You  use  for  these  stains  the 
colors  in  tin  pound  boxes,  prepared  with  oil,  costing  about  twenty-five 
cents  a  box.  If  you  have  a  hard  pine  floor  you  need  simply  the  oil,  no 
stain.  If  the  floor  is  either  oiled  or  stained,  it  is  best  to  leave  it  a  few 
days  before  the  w^axing.  Do  not  use  the  room  before  the  waxing ;  but 
if  dust  or  footprints  are  on  the  floor,  wipe  it  over  with  a  cloth  wrung 
out  of  warm  water,  but  use  no  soap.  Have  ready,  as  soon  as  the  floor 
is  dry,  two  quarts  of  turpentine  to  a  half  pound  of  bees  wax.  If  you 
warm  the  turpentine  slightly  the  wax  will  dissolve  in  a  short  time  vdth- 
out  delay  or  the  labor  of  shaving  the  wax.  Do  not  put  your  pail  of  tur- 
pentine in  the  middle  of  a  hot  stove  or  range,  and  go  off  and  forget  it 
till  a  small  explosion  and  a  dense  smoke  remind  you  that  turpentine  is 
at  least  inflammable.  When  the  wax  is  dissolved  rub  it  upon  the  floor 
with  a  woolen  cloth  till  the  whole  floor  is  covered.  Wait  from  five  to 
ten  minutes  till  the  wax  hardens  a  little  ;  then  rub  with  a  coarse  woolen 
cloth  or  brush,  with  the  grain  of  the  wood,  not  across  it.  After  a  few 
times  waxing,  your  floors  will  have  a  good  polish,  and  the  wax  need  be 
applied  but  seldom.  The  rooms  most  in  use,  as  a  dining  room  or  hall, 
require  more  frequent  polishing.  A  bed-room  will  keep  in  good  condi- 
tion with  much  less  care.  Waxing  twice  or  four  times  a  year  will  keep 
a  bed-room  in  tidy  condition,  while  a  dining-room  would  generally  be 
better  for  a  weekly  waxing.  Waxed  floors  need  only  to  be  wiped  up 
with  a  damp  cloth  if  kept  in  good  condition. 


PAINTING  AND  GRAINING.  367 

Stain  for  Stairs — Put  some  burnt  sienna,  bought  in  a  can  (mixed  oil 
paint,  twenty-five  cents),  with  linseed  oil,  in  an  old  vegetable  can,  so 
that  there  will  be  a  thick  mixture  at  the  bottom,  while  at  the  top  the 
mixture  will  flow  freely.  Have  two  brushes,  such  as  house  painters  use ; 
add  turpentine  to  make  this  work  easily ;  with  your  largest  brush  stain 
your  stair.  Dip  your  small  brush  in  the  thickest  part  of  the  mixture 
occasionally  and  follow  the  grain ;  work  the  brush  back  and  forwards ; 
the  large  brush  is  to  soak  the  stain  into  the  wood,  the  small  one  is  to 
suggest  graining.  Paint  every  other  stair,  so  as  to  reserve  a  place  to 
step  until  dry.  Three  days  are  necessary  for  this.  When  dry  complete 
your  work  by  painting  the  untouched  stairs.  This  harmonizes  well  with 
the  dark  wood  of  the  banisters.  Too  much  caution  cannot  be  used 
regarding  the  oily  rags ;  burn  them  at  once  or  they  will  burn  you. 

PAINTING  AND  GRAINING. 

You  may  darken  light  mahogany  so  as  to  match  a  darker  piece  b)' 
putting  on  a  wash  of  soap  lees  or  quicklime,  dissolved  in  water ;  make 
ihe  washes  thin  and  go  over  till  dark  enough. 

Grain  is  imitated  in  various  ways.  Take  a  flat  brush,  cut  away  some 
of  the  hairs  irreglarly,  not  carelessly,  but  so  that  none  of  the  notches 
shall  be  alike.  The  beauty  of  the  grain  of  wood  is  its  variety  and  con- 
stant change.  Keep  this  idea  in  your  mind  and  taTce  advantage  of  any 
accidental  effect.  Pomts,  circles,  broken  lines,  waves,  blending  from 
one  color  to  another,  then  broken  by  a  strongly  marked  color,  are 
characteristics  to  be  seized  and  followed. 

Cherry,  apple,  pear  and  holly  woods  are  good  to  ebonize  with  bl^ck 
stains. 

To  improve  the  color  of  any  stain,  mix  in  a  bottle  one  ounce  of  nitric 
acid,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  muriatic  acid,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  grain 
tin  and  two  ounces  of  rain  water ;  mix  two  days  before  using,  and  keep 
your  bottle  well  corked. 

Use  no  perfume  of  any  kind  to  counteract  the  odor  of  the  paint ;  this 
will  make  matters  worse.  Admit  fresh  air  freely  every  day,  working,  if 
possible,  in  fine  weather. 

In  painting  wood,  use  an  easel  to  hold  your  wood  with  an  upward 
slant,  before  which  you  may  sit  comfortably,  and  rest  your  hand  on  a 
maul-stick,  that  is,  if  you  are  painting  anything  too  large  to  place  on 
your  desk  with  ease. 

A  Cement  to  Stop  Flaws  or  Cracks  in  Wood  of  Any  Color — Put  any 
quantity  of  saw-dust,  of  the  same  wood  your  work  is  made  with,  into  an 
earthen  pan  and  pour  boiling  water  over  it ;  stir  it  well  and  let  it  remain 
for  a  week  or  ten  days,  occasionally  stirring  it ;  then  boil  it  for  some  time, 
and  it  will  be  of  the  consistency  of  pulp  or  paste ;  put  it  in  a  coarse  cloth 
and  squeeze  all  the  moisture  from  it;  keep  it  for  use, and  when  wanted. 


368  H-QOnS. 

mix  a  sufficient  quantity  of  thin  glue  to  make  it  a  paste ;  rub  well  into 
the  cracks,  or  fill  up  the  holes  in  your  work  with  it  when  it  is  quite  hard 
and  dry ;  clean  your  work  off,  and  if  carefully  done,  you  will  scarcely 
discover  the  imperfection. 

To  give  pine  an  oak  color :  Wash  the  wood  carefully  in  a  solution  of 
copperas  dissolved  in  strong  lye,  in  the  proportion  of  a  pound  of  cop- 
peras to  a  gallon  of  lye;  when  the  wood  is  dry,  after  having  been  thus 
thoroughly  saturated  with  this  wash,  oil  it,  and  it  will  look  fresh  and 
nice  for  a  year  or  two,  when  it  can  be  restained  and  again  oiled.  Often, 
when  not  subjected  to  hard  usage,  the  color  will  remain  undimmed  for 
several  years,  only  requiring  to  be  oiled  occasionally.  The  color  may 
be  put  on  with  a  short  bristled  brush,  or,  the  hands  being  protected 
with  thick  buckskin  gloves,  the  wash  may  be  applied  with  a  cloth,  which 
will  saturate  the  wood  more  evenly.  It  will  blister  the  hands  if  they 
are  not  well  protected. 

VARNISHING  AND  POLISHING. 

Be  careful  in  varnishing  not  to  go  over  the  same  place  twice,  as  in 
"  washing  "  water  color,  and  for  the  same  reason ;  that  is  to  say,  you 
may  take  off  instead  of  putting  on,  and  it  will  look  patched,  or  like  a 
seam  that  shows  the  stitches.  In  varnishing,  as  in  painting,  take  the 
greatest  care  to  have  your  brushes  clean.  Do  your  work  quickly. 
Make  up  your  mind  before  you  begin  and  meditate  for  the  next  time 
when  you  have  laid  down  your  brush.  It  is  important  to  go  straight 
ahead :  "the  woman  who  hesitates  is  lost." 

Always  Buy  Varnish.  Never  attempt  to  make  it  yourself,  it  is  a  dan- 
gerous process.  In  varnishing  furniture  first  make  the  work  quite 
clean,  then  fill  up  the  knots  or  blemishes  with  cement  of  the  same 
color ;  see  that  your  brush  is  clean  and  free  from  loose  hairs ;  dip  your 
brush  in  the  varnish,  stroke  it  along  the  wire  across  the  top  of  your  var- 
nish pot ;  give  it  a  thin  coat ;  let  it  stand  in  a  moderately  warm  place  to 
dry. 

To  Polish  Varnish — Put  two  ounces  of  tripoH  into  an  earthen  pot  or 
basin,  with  water  sufficient  to  cover  it,  then  with  a  piece  of  fine  flannel 
four  times  doubled,  lay  it  over  a  piece  of  cork  rubber  and  proceed  to 
polish  your  varnish,  always  wetting  it  with  the  tripoli  and  water.  You 
will  know  when  the  process  is  complete  by  wiping  a  part  of  the  work 
with  a  sponge  and  observing  whether  there  is  a  fair  and  even  gloss. 
Clean  off  with  a  bit  of  mutton  suet  and  fine  flour.  Be  careful  not  to  rub 
the  work  too  hard  nor  too  long,  but  only  to  make  the  surface  smooth  and 
even. 

French  Method  of  Polishing — With  a  piece  of  fine  pumice  stone  and 
water,  pass  regularly  over  the  work  with  the  grain,  until  the  rising  of  the 
grain  is  down,  then  with  powdered  tripoli  and  boiled  linseed  oil,  poUsh 


VARNISHING  AND  POLISHING,  369 

the  work  to  a  bright  face.     This  will  be  very  superior  polish,  but  it 
requires  considerable  time. 

A  Sealing  Wax  Varnish  for  Chairs  or  Light  Articles — Reduce  a  two 
ounce  stick  of  wax  to  a  coarse  powder ;  pour  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
spirits  of  wine  on  it  (in  a  bottle) ;  let  it  gradually  dissolve  without  heat, 
shaking  the  bottle  occasionally  till  all  is  dissolved.  Very  much  depends 
on  the  goodness  of  your  sealing  wax.  You  may  vary  the  colors  by 
using  different  colored  wax.  As  this  varnish  dries  very  quickly,  it  should 
not  be  made  until  it  is  wanted  for  use.  There  is,  of  course,  no  danger 
in  compounding  this  varnish. 

24 


THE  BANQUET  WAITS   OUR  PKESEiNCE. 
GOOD  SISTEK,  LET  US  DINE." 

SnAKSPEAKE. 


BILLS  OF  FAER 

BREAKFASTS, 
SPRING. 

Fried  Brook  Trout  Eggs  on  Toast  Brown  Bread 

Saratoga  Chips  Coffee  or  Chocolate 

SPRING  No.  8. 

Broiled  Ham         _     Fried  Mush 

Scrambled  Eggs  Wheat  Cakes  with  Maple  Syrup 

Cream  Stew  Potatoes 

SUMMER. 

« 

Nutmeg  Melons  Fried  Fish  Sliced  Tomatoes 

Saratoga  Potatoes  Oatmeal  Mush  Muffins  Coffee 

SUMMER  No.  2. 

Fruit  Frizzled  Beef 

Milk  Toast         Graham  Jams         Mashed  Potatoes         Poached  Eggs 

Tea  and  Coffee 

AUTUMN. 

Beefsteak        Hot  Rolls        Baked  Potatoes        Codfish  Balls 
Cracked  Wheat  Chocolate 

AUTUMN  No.  2. 

Graham  Mush  Fried  Trout  Pork  Steak 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes  Corn  Rolls  Apple  Fritters 

Coffee  and  Cocoa 

WINTER. 

Baked  Beans  with  Pork  Boston  Brown  Bread 

Fried  Oysters         Lyonnaise  Potatoes       Buckwheat  Cakes,  with  Syrup 

Coffee 

WINTER  No.  2. 

Pork  Tenderloin  Fried 

Fried  Apples         Baked  Potatoes         Waffles         Veal  Cutlets,  Breaded 

Poached  Eggs  on  Toast  Chocolate  or  Coffee 

[373] 


374  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

SUNDAY  BREAKFAST  No,  1. 

Hominy  or  Cracked  Wheal  Beefsteak 

French  Rolls  Potatoes  a  la  Creme         Coffee  or  Chocolate 

SUNDAY  BREAKFAST  No.  2. 

Indian  Meal  Mush  Broiled  Spring  Chicken  Buckwheat  Cakes 

Baked  Potatoes         Scrambled  Eggs         Fried  Oysters 

Coffee 

SUNDAY  BREAKFAST  No.  3. 

Buttered  Toast  White  Fish 

Mashed  Potatoes  Muffins  Fried  Ham  Egg  Omelet 

Vienna  Coffee 

SUNDAY  BREAKFAST  No.  4. 

Indian  Meal  Cakes  Broiled  Mackerel 

Fried  Potatoes         Fish  Sauce 

Poached  Eggs  Coffee 


SUNDAY  DINNERS. 
DINNER  No.   1. 

Oyster  Soup       Baked  White  Fish"      Fish  Sauce      Boiled  Beef  Tongue 

Baked  Chicken  Baked  Irish  Potatoes  Hpt  Slaw 

Tomatoes  Celery  Catsups  Pickles 

Cranberry  Pie  Queen's  Pudding 

Fruit  Coffee 

DINNER  No.  3. 

Beef  Soup  Lobster  Croquettes 

Broiled  Chicken  Sweet  Potatoes         Baked  Beans 

Stewed  Tomatoes  Cauliflovver               Lemon  Pudding 

Apple  Jelly  Tea  or  Coffee 

DINNER  No.  3, 

Bean  Soup  Veal  Cutlets 

Fried  Parsnips      Sausage  and  Cabbage 

Celery  Salad  Apple  Meringue  Whipped  Cream 

Chocolate 

DINNER  No.  4. 

Raw  Oysters  Chicken  and  Cream  Soup  Roast  Turkey 

Cranberry  Sauce  Baked  Sweet  Potatoes  Celery  Salad 

Baked  Tomatoes  Pickled  Tongue  Hot  Slaw 

Mmce  Pie  Nuts  and  Raisins 

Cream  and  Cake         Vienna  Coffee 


BILLS  OF  FARE,  375 

DINNER  No.  5. 

Noodle  Soup  Roast  Pork 

Potato  Balis  Fried  Sweet  Potatoes  Cream  Peas 

Apple  Sauce    Celery     Indian  Meal  Pudding    Apple  Pie    Tea  or  Coffee 

DINNER  No.  6. 

Tomato  Soup  Baked  Halibut 

Roast  of  Veal     Roast  Potatoes     Succotash 

Squash  Boiled  Onions  Fried  Hominy 

Bread  and  Raisin  Pudding        Boiled  Chestnuts        Apples        Coffee 


THANKSGIVING  DINNER, 

Oyster  Soup 

Baked  Shad  Roast  Turkey  Cranberry  Sauce  Jellies 

Celery       •       Pickles  Chicken  Salad  Green  Peas 

Hot  Slaw         Sweet  Corn  Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Potatoes  ^  la  creme  Scalloped  Squash  Mince  Pie 

Tartlets  Fruit  Coffee 


CHRISTMAS  DINNER, 

Raw  Oysters 

Chicken  and  Cream  Soup  Boiled  Salmon  Roast  Turkey 

Chicken  Salad  Cranberry  Sauce  Baked  Tomatoes 

Sweet  Potatoes  Hot  Slaw  Stewed  Corn 

Cream  Onions  Potato  Puff  Canned  Peas  Fried  Parsnips 

Mince  Pie  Cheese  Jelly  Tartlets  Coffee 

Ices  Nuts  and  Raisins 


NEW  YEAR'S  DINNER. 

Oysters  in  the  half  shell 

Mock  Turtle  Soup  Boiled  Turkey  with  Oyster  Sauce 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes  Cream  Mashed  Potatoes        Baked  Turnips 

Potato  Salad  Lima  Beans  Sweet  Corn 

Brown  Bread  French  Rolls 

Boiled  Beef  Tongue 

Celery  Jelly  Pickles  Mince  Pie  Cheese 

Harlequin  Ice  Cream  Oranges  Raisins  Figs  Nuts 

Coffee  and  Chocolate 


376  BILLS  OF  FARE, 


SUPPERS, 

No.  1. 

Dried  Beef  .     Cold  Veal  Waffles  Bread  and  Butter 

Cheese  Chow-Chow  Canned  Fruit 

Sponge  Cake  Tea 

No.  2. 

Cold  Chicken  Veal  Bread  Rolls 

Short  Cake  and  Cream  J^l'y  Cake 

Pickles  Sugared  Oranges 

Iced  Tea 

No.  3. 

Raw  Oysters  Cold  Turkey  Cranberry  Jam 

Light  Biscuit  Hot  Rolls  Apple  Sauce 

Potato  Salad  Stewed  Peas      • 

No.  4. 

Oyster  Stew  Cold  Tongue  Chicken  Salad 

Raspberry  Jam  Cheese  Waffles 

Dry  Toast  Baked  Peas 

Fig  Cake  Coffee 


SUNDAY  MEALS, 
BREAKFAST. 

Fried  Scallops  Fried  Potatoes  Peaches 

Vienna  Bread  Coffee 

DINNER. 

Roast  Duck         Succotash  Stewed  Tomatoes  Baked  Potatoes 

Bread  Musk  Melon  Tea 

SUPPER. 

Escalloped  Oysters  Cold  Tongue  Warm  Biscuit 

Cheese  Dry  Toast 

Canned  Plums  Cocoa-nut  Cake  Tea 

BREAJCFAST. 

Blue  Fish  Fried  Egg  Plant  Fried  Potatoes 

French  Rolls  Coffee 


BILLS  OF  FARE.  377 

LUNCH. 

Graham  Bread  Rusks  Peaches  and  Cream  Tea 

DINNER. 

Roast  Chicken  Baked  Potatoes  Corn  Stewed  Onions 

Bread  Musk  Melon  Tea 

SUPPER. 

Cold  Beef  Sliced  Beefsteak  Potato  Salad  Apple  Jelly 

Floating  Island  Fruit  Short-cake 


Hot  Rolls                    Baked  Pears 

Canned  Peaches 

BREAKFAST. 

Beefsteak           Corn  and  Fried  Potatoes 

French  Rolls           C( 

LUNCH. 

Rolls                 Salad                  Cookies 

Peaches 

DINNER. 

Tea. 


Broiled  Blue  Fish        Lamb  Chops         Rice  and  Mushrooms         Corn 
Potatoes  Bread  Pudding  Tea 

SUPPER. 

Cold  Lamb  Chili  Sauce  Canned  Salmon 

Warm  Biscuit  with  Maple  Syrup 

Saratoga  Potatoes  Delicate  Cake  Preserves 


HOME  LUNCHES, 
No.  1. 

Tea  or  Coffee  White  Bread  Brown  Bread  Crackers 

Ham  Sandwiches  Pickles  Jellies 

Catsup         Jumbles         Sugared  Berries         Whipped  Cream 

No.  2. 

Beef  Tea  Cold  Chicken  Ham  Lettuce  or  Potato  Salad 

Biscuits  Cheese  Sandwiches 

•Raw  or  Escalloped  Oysters  Basket  of  Mixed  Cake 

Ice  Cream  or  Charlotte  Russe  Chocolate  or  Coffee 

No.  3. 

Oyster  Pie  Pressed  Chicken  Sweet  Pickles  Sandwiches 

Celery  Pickled  Cabbage  Biscuits  Currant  Jelly 

Kisses  Macaroons  Ice  Cream  Coffee 


378 


BILLS  OF  FARE, 


PICNIC  LUNCHES, 
No.  1. 

Cold  Roast  Chicken  Canned  Salmon 

Boston  Brown  Bread  Pickles 

Fruit  Jelly  Chocolate  Cake 


Cookies 


Iced  Tea 


Sardines  Tongue 

Biscuits 
Marmalade  or  Jam 
Lemonade 


No.  2. 

Cold  Turkey  Ham  Sandwiches 

Pot  of  Pork  and  Beans 

Spiced  Currants        Baked  Pears  or  Apples 
Lemon  Pie 

No.  3. 


Cold  Boiled  Hani 

Chow-Chow 
Ice  Cream        Jelly  Cake 
Iced  Tea 


Hard  Boiled  Eggs 


Cold  Veal  Loaf  Parker  House  Rolls 

Sliced  Tomatoes  Saratoga  Chips  Mixed  Pickles 

Dried  Beef  Sandwiched  Biscuits  Lemon  Cake  Melons 

Fruit  Lemonade 


NEW  YEAR'S  RECEPTION  LUNCHES. 
SANDWICHES. 

(Tongue  or  Ham.) 
Sliced  Meats         Boned  Turkey         Lobster  Salad         Pickled  Oysters 

FRUIT. 

(Apples,  Oranges  and  White  Grapes.) 

Confectionery,  Nuts  and  Raisins. 


Chocolate 


CAKE. 

Cocoanut 


Fruit 


JELLIES. 

Coffee  and  Chocolate  Lemonade 

Salads  are  Garnished  with  Egg  Rings,  Lettuce  and  Celery  Hearts 

Sliced  Meats,  with  Parsley 

Tongue  or  Ham,  with  Sliced  Lemons. 


ALLOWANCES  OF  SUPPLIES  FOR  AN  ENTERTAINMENT. 

Allow  one  quart  of  oysters  to  every  three  persons  present.  Five 
chickens  (or  what  is  better,  a  ten  pound  turkey  boiled  and  minced)  and 
fifteen  heads  of  celery,  are  enough  for  chicken  salad  for  fifty  guests ; 


BREAD-MAKING.  379 

one  gallon  of  ice  cream  to  every  twenty  guests ;  one  hundred  and  thirty 
sandwiches  for  one  hundred  guests,  and  six  to  ten  quarts  of  jellies  for 
each  one  hundred  guests.  For  a  company  of  twenty,  allow  three 
chickens  for  salad ;  one  hundred  pickled  oysters ;  two  molds  of  char- 
lotte russe ;  one  gallon  of  cream,  and  four  dozen  biscuits. 


BEEAD-MAKi:tTG. 


FIRST  PRINCIPLES. 


There  is  no  one  thing  upon  which  health  and  comfort  in  a  family  so 
much  depend  as  upon  good  bread.  Without  it  the  meal  is  a  failure, 
and  the  most  luxurious  table  incomplete.  With  it  other  imperfections 
are  forgotten.     Verily,  it  is  the  "  staff  of  life." 

If  importance  entitles  a  thing  to  a  high  place,  bread-making  should 
stand  foremost  in  the  science  of  cooking.  It  is  not  pleasant  to  think  or 
write  about  it,  but  it  is  a  stubborn  fact  that  upon  thousands  of  tables  in 
othei-wise  comfortable  homes  good  bread  is  an  unknown  phenomenon. 
A  phenomenon  (because  it  would  be  indeed  a  marvelous  estrangement 
of  cause  and  effect)  were  indifferent  flour,  unskillfully  mixed  with  flat 
yeast,  badly  risen  and  negligently  baked,  to  result  in  that  pride  of  the 
good  housekeeper — light,  sweet,  wholesome  bread. 

There  are  households  where  sour,  stiff  bread  is  a  rule,  varied  semi- 
occasionally  with  soda,  clammy  biscuit-rolls  and  muffins.  In  other 
households  the  bread  is  invariably  over-risen  and  consequently  taste- 
less. Sometimes  it  is  slightly  acid.  And  there  are  still  other  homes 
in  which  "  home-made  "  bread  is  not  used  at  all,  because  to  make  it  is 
so  troublesome,  uncertain  a  task  that  the  wife  prefers  to  feed  her  fam- 
ily upon  the  bakery  sponges,  which  are  flavorless  and  " dry  as  a  chip" 
when  a  day  old ;  and  some  bread  is  fifty  or  sixty  per  cent,  of  water, 
which  is  added  to  the  flour  with  the  leavening  matter. 

There  are  many  recipes  for  making  good  bread.  Skeptics  say  it 
can't  be  made  by  rule.  They  are  mistaken.  It  can.  They  put  their 
material  together  any  way  it  happens,  have  as  good  "luck  "  as  most  of 
their  neighbors  and  are  content.  The  baking  they  lay  upon  the 
shoulders  of  the  great  god  of  chance.  The  deficiencies  of  the  compla- 
cent cook,  cheap  flour  and  lazy  housekeepers,  are  at  the  bottom  of 
more  accidents  in  the  bread  line  than  in  anything  else.  From  inferior 
grades  of  flour  it  is  possible  to  make  tolerable  biscuit,  griddle  cakes, 
pie  and  pastry,  but  not  bread.  Let  it  be  understood  once  for  all  that 
poor  flour  is  poor  economy. 

Now  let  us  make  some  bread  by  rule : 


380  BREAD-MAKING. 

Take  two  teacups  of  boiling  water  and  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make 
a  thin  batter.  Pour  in  a  quart  of  cold  water,  add  one  teacup  of  baker's 
yeast,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  lard; 
add  enough  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter.  The  temperature  of  the  place 
for  the  bread  to  rise  in  should  be  seventy  degrees.  Let  the  sponge 
stand  for  three  hours,  but  not  near  a  heated  stove.  At  the  end  of  the 
three  hours,  knead  in  all  the  flour  it  will  mix  without  sticking  to  the 
hands  and  knead  it  ten  minutes.  Let  it  stand  again  in  the  same  tem- 
perature an  hour  to  rise.  Knead  again  a  little,  mold  and  put  it  in 
your  bread-pan.  Let  it  rise  until  the  corners  are  filled  and  the  dough 
is  nearly  even  with  the  edges  of  the  bread-pan. 

To  bake  it  well,  the  temperature  of  the  oven  should  be  about  212 
degrees.  Place  your  bread  in  the  oven  with  a  large  pan  turned  over  it 
so  as  not  to  hinder  its  rising,  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

When  to  eat  it :  Never  when  it  is  warm.  It  is  better  far,  for  health, 
not  to  cut  into  a  loaf  until  it  is  six  hours  old.  In  Prussia  bread  is  not 
eaten  until  it  is  twenty-four  hours  old,  and  increased  vigor  in  American 
people  would  follow  the  adoption  of  the  same  rule. 

HOP-YEAST. 

First,  and  the  most  important  of  all,  is  how  to  make  good,  reliable 
yeast.  Sleep  slowly  in  a  porcelain  or  a  bright  tin  kettle  one  large  hand- 
ful of  fresh  hops  tied  in  a  cloth ;  boil  six  large  potatoes,  sliced  thin,  in 
two  quarts  of  water,  and  in  porcelain  ;  when  done  very  soft,  mash  till 
smooth  and  creamy.  Have  ready  one  pint  of  flour,  wet  and  rubbed  to 
a  smooth  paste;  pour  into  this  the  potato  water  boihng  hot,  stirring 
smoothly ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time  ;  add  the  hop 
water  and  potatoes,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt  and  one  cup  white  sugar; 
stir  thoroughly  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  milk  warm  to  the  touch, 
stir  in  one  cup  of  fresh  yeast ;  let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place  twelve  hours  ; 
put  it  in  an  air-tight  vessel,  previously  well  scalded,  and  set  in  the  cel- 
lar. This  will  keep  from  four  to  six  weeks.  Always  make  new  yeast 
before  the  old  is  gone,  in  order  to  have  some  to  start  with.  Be  very 
particular  at  every  new  batch  of  yeast,  to  have  the  vessel  in  which  it  is 
kept  well  cleaned  with  hot  salerams  water.  Much  depends  upon  keep- 
:  ig  this  sweet  and  clean. 

YEAST  THAT  WON'T  SOUR. 

For  three  quarts,  take  two  handfuls  (as  much  as  you  can  hold)  of 
hops,  one  teacup  of  flour,  half  a  teacup  of  salt,  half  a  teacup  of 
white  sugar,  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger;  while  the  hops  are 
boiling  mix  the  above  with  a  little  cold  water,  strain  the  hop  water, 
wash  out  the  kettle,  pour  all  in  the  kettle  again,  stirring  all  the  time,  to 
keep  from  burning;  it  will  be  thick  and  smooth.     Boil  thoroughly; 


YEAST  BREAD.  381 

have  the  yeast  jar  perfectly  clean  ;  pour  in  the  cooked  batter  and  set 
away  to  cool ;  when  cool  enough  not  to  scald  the  yeast,  put  in  a  tea- 
cupful  of  yeast;  when  light,  tie  up  tightly  and  set  on  the  cellar  floor. 

DRY  YEAST. 

T.-xke  a  large  handful  of  hops,  tie  up  in  a  cloth  and  place  in  a  crock  or 
bright  stew  pan ;  pour  one  and  one-half  quarts  boiling  water  over  them 
and  steep  fifteen  minutes  ;  remove  from  hre,  squeeze  the  water  from  the 
hops  and  lay  them  aside ;  put  one  quart  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  gin- 
ger and  three  of  sugar  into  the  hot  water,  which  should  be  hot  enough 
to  thoroughly  scald  the  flour;  v^^hen  cool  add  a  couple  of  cakes  of  good 
dry  yeast ;  then  stir  the  mixture  frequently;  every  time.it  rises,  stir  it 
down  again;  let  it  stand  over  night;  the  next  morning  stir  as  before; 
when  It  is  all  a  light  foam,  stir  thick  with  corn  meal ;  make  into  cakes 
and  dry  in  the  shade. 

GRANDMA'S  HOP  YEAST. 

Put  two  handfuls  of  hops  in  a  sack  and  then  put  in  a  kettle  with  two 
quarts  of  water ;  let  them  boil  ten  minutes ;  peel  and  steam  three  or 
four  good  sized  potatoes ;  put  two  quarts  of  flour  in  a  pan ;  pour  the 
boiling  hot  water  on  the  flour ;  mash  the  potatoes  and  stir  them  into 
the  mixture  while  hot ;  when  the  whole  becomes  milk-warm,  add  one- 
half  teacup  of  sugar,  same  amount  of  salt  and  one  coffee  cup  of  baker's 
yeast. 

YEAST  BREAD. 

To  make  first-rate  bread,  the  sponge  should  be  set  over  night  in  a 
warm  place  and  raised  and  kneaded  three  times;  the  first  time  from 
fifteen  to  twenty  mmutes — the  more  the  better.  If  this  rule  is  followed 
the  bread  will  present  an  even  surface  when  sliced  off,  and  not  the  loose, 
crumbly  appearance  which  is  so  often  seen  in  bread. 

Take  three  quarts  of  good  flour,  sift  and  warm ;  make  a  cavity  in  the 
center,  add  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt;  take  one  pint  of  new  milk  or 
water  boiling  hot,  pour  into  this  and  stir  quickly ;  cool  off  with  cold 
milk  or  water;  add  one  cup  of  yeast;  mix  well  together;  then  cover 
well  and  set  in  moderately  warm  place  (if  in  cold  weather) ;  this  will  be 
ready  to  knead  up  before  breakfast,  if  set  over  night.  Slashing  the 
dough  with  a  sharp  knife  adds  to  its  lightness  and  texture.  When  well 
kneaded  first  time,  cover  tightly,  watch  closely,  and  as  soon  as  light 
knead  as  before,  but  be  very  careful  not  to  work  in  much  flour,  only 
keep  enough  on  the  board  to  prevent  sticking,  as  all  the  flour  that  is 
added  after  the  first  kneading  only  makes  the  bread  hard  and  dry.  As 
soon  as  it  is  light  the  second  time,  divide  into  loaves  and  reserve  a  por- 
tion for  biscuit,  so  that  the  bread  will  not  be  cut  till  cold.      Mold 


382  BREAD-MAKING. 

smoothly,  put  into  tins,  let  rise  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  a  warm 
place ;  bake  half  an  hour  in  moderately  hot  oven.  When  done  set  on 
hearth,  cover  with  double  thick  cloth  five  minutes,  turn  out  on  same 
cloth ;  let  stand  until  cool ;  put  in  stone  jar  and  keep  covered.  Always 
keep  a  cloth  folded  in  the  bottom  of  the  jar  to  take  up  the  dampness 
which  naturally  collects. 

Biscuit  is  made  from  the  same  dough  as  the  bread,  rolled  out  and 
spread  with  a  small  quantity  of  lard,  which  must  be  very  fresh  and 
sweet.  Double  the  dough  together,  roll  and  spread  again  three  times ; 
then  cut  in  small  biscuits ;  place  on  buttered  tins ;  let  stand  half  an 
hour;  bake  fifteen  minutes  until  a  very  light  brown.  Cover  with  cloth 
a  few  minutes  and  slip  off  on  the  same  until  ready  for  use.  All  bread, 
biscuit,  loaf  cake  or  doughnuts  made  from  yeast  should  rise  after  being 
mixed  before  being  baked  ;  if  put  into  the  oven  or  fried  directly  they  are 
never  light,  as  the  dough  has  no  chance  to  recover  its  elasticity. 

QUICKLY  MADE  BREAD. 

As  early  as  possible  in  the  morning  put  two  yeast  cakes  in  a  little 
water  to  soak.  Take  two  tablespoonfuls  salt,  two  of  sugar  and  three 
of  flour,  put  in  a  basin  and  pour  over  it  one  pint  of  boiling  water;  when 
cool  enough,  put  in  the  soaked  yeast  cakes  and  let  it  rise  until  noon. 
Boil  twelve  large  potatoes,  mash  fine  and  rub  through  a  colander ;  pour 
over  them  one  quart  boiling,  and  one  of  cold  water ;  when  lukewarm, 
add  the  prepared  yeast  and  let  stand  over  night ;  afterwards  cover 
tightly  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  One  pint  makes  one  loaf  of  bread. 
Mix  hard  as  other  bread  and  put  in  tins ;  let  rise  only  once  ;  mold  well. 

This  method  obviates  starting  the  bread  over  night,  for  in  using  the 
yeast  for  the  only  moistening,  in  two  hours  from  the  moulding  the  bread 
is  ready  for  the  table.  It  will  be  found  especially  convenient  for  fresh 
rolls. 

To  make  a  nice  shape  after  it  is  ready  for  the  tins,  melt  butter  and 
grease  the  loaf  all  over,  which  will  prevent  its  cracking  open.  [Never 
grease  bread  tins.]  It  should  be  pressed  flat  into  the  pans,  that  it  may 
rise  as  much  at  the  sides  as  in  the  center,  then  it  will  bake  easily ; 
much  always  depends  upon  the  baking,  and  it  should  be  given  the  closest 
attention. 

MOTHER'S  BREAD. 

In  the  morning  take  a  quart  bowl  that  is  sweet  and  clean,  put  in  an 
even  teaspoonful  of  salt,  sugar,  soda  and  ginger,  one  teacupful  of  coarse 
flour.  Turn  boiling  v.'ater  on  and  stir  until  a  thick  batter  is  made ;  then 
cover  and  set  back  until  they  become  lukewarm  ;  now  look  at  them  ;  if 
they  have  become  set,  like  pudding,  add  a  little  warm  water  and  stir 
until  thin ;  put  in  a  good  warm  place,  and  keep  warm  until  they  fiH  the 


SALT  RISING  BREAD,  383 

bowl  full.     The  yeast  or  risings  are  now  ready  for  use,  and  there  will 
be  enough  to  bake  with  three  times. 

Early  in  the  morning  get  the  bread  pan  and  fill  two-thirds  full  of 
flour,  well  sifted ;  make  a  hollow  in  the  center,  throw  in  a  small  table- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Pour  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stirring  it  into  the 
flour;  then  half  a  pint  of  milk;  add  hot  water  enough  to  make  a  pint, 
then  another  pint  of  water,  the  right  temperature  to  make  the  sponge 
cool  enough  to  not  scald  and  kill  the  life  of  the  yeast  and  yet  leave  it 
real  warm;  now  stir  in  one-third  of  your  yeast;  cover  with  drj^  flour; 
then  cover  with  your  bread  board  or  another  pan  and  let  rise ;  mold 
into  loaves ;  let  rise  again  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven.  The  quicker  bread 
bakes  and  not  burn,  the  nicer  the  flavor.  This  amount  will  make  three 
good  sized  loaves.  If  the  oven  is  just  the  right  heat  when  it  goes  in,  it 
will  bake  in  twenty  minutes.  If  it  has  to  stay  in  over  thirty  minutes  it 
will  lose  its  best  flavor.     Be  sure  and  bake  a  nice  brown. 

SALT  RISING  BREAD. 

The  earlier  in  the  morning  it  is  set  the  better.  A  most  convenient 
hour  is  six  o'clock.  Take  one  pint  of  water,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar ;  stir  to  the  thickness  of  pan-cake  batter. 
The  water  used  should  be  as  warm  as  the  hand  can  bear.  Place  the 
vessel  containing  this  batter  into  water  of  the  temperature  of  that  first 
used,  and  let  it  stand  for  three  hours.  In  that  time  a  water  will  arise 
to  the  surface ;  then  thicken  with  flour  until  the  batter  is  as  thick  as  it 
was  in  the  commencement.  Let  it  stand  three  hours  longer  when  it 
will  again  rise,  making  a  total  standing  of  six  hours.  Then  get  what 
flour  you  need  for  your  baking,  scald  about  one  pint  of  it,  and  after  it  is 
cool  mix  the  rising  together  with  warm  water  and  mix  to  a  stiffness  to 
knead  on  a  warm  board.  A  great  deal  of  kneading  is  required.  Place 
the  dough  in  the  baking  pan,  set  aside  until  it  rises  to  twice  its  original 
size,  and  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  A  careful  following  of  these  direc- 
tions will  make  the  most  delicious  bread  that  has  ever  entered  mortal's 
mouth.  If  a  large  baking,  the  ingredients  are  to  be  proportionately 
increased. 

No.  2 — In  the  evening  scald  two  tablespoonfuls  of  com  me?.l,  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  one  of  sugar,  with  sweet  milk,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  till 
morning ;  then  scald  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  of  salt,  half  as  much 
soda,  with  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  add  cold  water  till  lukewarm,  then 
put  in  the  mush  made  the  night  before  and  thicken  to  a  batter  with 
flour ;  put  in  a  close  vessel  in  a  kettle  of  warm  water  (not  too  hot),  when 
light,  mix  stiff,  adding  a  little  shortening ;  mold  into  loaves.  It  will 
soon  rise,  and  will  not  take  as  long  to  bake  as  yeast  bread. 

Railroad  emptyings  is  often  used  for  salt  rising  bread,  and  some  think 
it  rises  quicker  than  the  common  flour  emptyings.     This  is  made  by 


384  BREAD-MAKING. 

taking  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  pint  of 
boiling  water ;  thicken  with  coarse  flour  or  middlings ;  let  it  rise  and  set 
in  a  cool  place.     Use  a  teaspoonful  in  a  baking  of  salt-rising  bread. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

Take  tv/o  quarts  of  corn  meal ;  scald  with  one  quart  of  boiling  milk 
or  water;  when  cool  add  one  quart  of  Graham  flour,  one  large  spoonful 
salt,  one  cup  brown  sugar  or  best  molasses,  one  cup  home-made  yeast, 
one  cup  flour.  Mix  with  warm  water  as  stiff  as  can  easily  be  stirred ; 
put  in  deep  basins ;  steam  two  hours  and  bake  one.  Before  baking, 
baste  with  a  few  spoontuls  of  sweet  cream  or  milk ;  this  makes  a  soft, 
tender  crust, 

RAISED  BROWN  BREAD. 

Get  Graham  flour  fresh  from  the  mill  in  small  quantities,  as  it  soon 
molds.  Make  your  sponge  the  night  before,  the  same  as  for  white 
bread,  using  white  flour ;  in  the  morning  divide  it,  using  for  the  brown 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  scant  cup  of  sugar ;  use  just  enough 
Graham  flour  to  get  it  together  nicely,  and  no  more ;  when  light  make 
into  small  loaves ;  have  pie-pans  well  buttered ;  grease  the  top  of  the 
bread  by  putting  it  on  the  pan  first,  then  turn  ;  turn  the  sides  under 
good  and  keep  in  a  warm  (not  hot)  place  ;  when  light,  bake. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

Two  cups  of  Graham  flour,  two  cups  of  com  meal,  one  cup  of  New 
Orleans  molasses,  three  cups  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  tartar  (sour  milk  is  best,  and  if  it  is  used  you  need 
no  cream  of  tartar).  Steam  five  hours  and  bake  half  an  hour.  Keep 
closely  covered  while  steaming  and  the  water  boiling  all  the  time. 
This  makes  a  loaf  large  enough  for  ten  persons. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD. 

Four  cups  com  meal,  two  cups  flour,  one  cup  molasses,  two  cups 
sour  milk,  two  and  a  half  or  three  cups  of  sweet  milk  or  water  (some 
meal  requires  more  wetting),  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  and  a  half  tea- 
spoonfuls  salt ;  steam  three  and  a  half  or  four  hours. 

CORN  BREAD. 

One  ^g'g,  one  cup  molasses  or  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk,  two  cups 
sweet  milk,  two  cups  wheat  flour,  three  cups  corn  meal,  one  teaspoonful 
each  of  soda  and  salt.  Put  in  a  two-quart  basin,  steam  one  hour,  and 
bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  It  is  best  eaten  warm  for  dinner,  but  is 
good  cold,  with  either  butter  or  milk. 


GRAHAM  BREAD.  385 

VIRGINIA  CORN   BREAD. 

Dissolve  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  three  pints  and  a  half  of  boil- 
ing milk,  and  into  this  scald  one  quart  of  India  meal.  When  cool  add 
half  a  pint  of  wheat  flour,  a  little  sugar,  a  teaspooiiful  of  salt  and  two 
eggs,  well  beaten ;  mix  well  together,  and  bake  in  two  cake-tins,  well 
|)  uttered. 

CAPE  MAY  CORN  BREAD. 

One  pint  sifted  corn  meal :  pour  on  it  one  quart  boiling  water  and  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  salt ;  three  ^gg'i,  the  whites  beaten  first  as  light  as  pos- 
sible, and  then  add  the  yolks,  unbeaten,  to  the  whites,  aiid  beat  all 
again  until  light ;  bake  very  thin. 

BAKED  INDIAN  BREAD. 

One  cup  molasses,  three  cups  flour,  two  cups  sour  milk,  fnur  cups 
sweet  milk,  five  cups  meal,  one  ta.blespoonfal  of  salt,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  soda ;  bake  two  hours. 

INDIAN  LOAF. 

One  pint  corn  meal,  one  pint  flour,  one  pint  buttermilk,  one  tea  cup 
molasses,  one  teaspoonlul  soda,  one  teaspoonful  salt;  bake  slowly  just 
two  hours. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Take  one  and  two-thirds  cups  of  water  or  milk  and  a  small  piece  of 
butter  or  lard ;  mix  quiie  thick  with  Graham  flour  or  Arlington  wheat 
meal,  which  is  belter;  add  half  cup  of  good  yeast  and  set  to  rise  over 
night.  In  the  morn  ng  dissolve  one  half  teaspoonful  soda  m  a  little 
water,  and  add  one  half  cup  molasses;  stir  this  into  the  bread,  mix 
quite  soft  and  put  in  baking  tin  to  rise.  Bake  thoroughly.  A  nice  rye 
and  wheat  loaf  may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  usmg  one  and  one-half 
cups  sifted  rye  and  the  rest  wheat  flour.  If  you  wish  a  light-colored 
loaf  use  only  one  cup  of  rye,  and  sweeten  with  sugar. 

,►  GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Prepare  a  sponge  as  for  white  bread  ;  then  when  very  light,  take  two 
parts  Graham  flour,  one-third  white,  and  to  every  quart  of  this  allow  a 
handful  of  meal,  a  teaspoonful  salt ;  wet  this  up  with  the  sponge,  and 
when  mixed  add  for  a  loaf  of  fair  size  half  a  teacup  molasses;  the 
dough  should  be  very  scft ;  knead  it  diligently  and  long,  it  will  not  rise 
so  rapidly  as  white;  rise  second  time;  brown  fljur  should  not  be  sifted. 


25 


3S6  BREAD-MAKING, 


STEAMED  GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk  and  thicken  with  Graham  flour ;  then  add  cold 
milk  enough  to  make  the  whole  as  thin  as  batter.  As  soon .  as  cool 
enough  not  to  scald,  add  half  a  teacup  of  hop  yeast  and  set  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise.  When  light  put  in  a  little  salt  and  half  a  teacup 
of  syrup — or  sweeten  to  taste — and  as  much  Graham  flour  as  can  be 
stirred  in  with  a  spoon.  Sprinkle  a  little  fine  flour  on  the  dough- 
boards,  and  mold  the  brown  bread  until  it  works  clear  from  the  board 
and  hands,  being  careful  not  to  get  it  too  stiff  and  dry.  Put  it  into  a 
round  basin  that  will  fit  nicely  in  your  steamer,  and  retuin  to  the  warm 
place  to  rise.  When  light  enough  to  bake,  put  it  into  the  steamer  over 
boiling  water  and  let  it  cook  an  hour ;  then  bake  twenty  minutes  in  the 
oven.  Do  not  open  the  steamer  while  the  bread  is  cooking  or  the  bread 
will  be  heavy. 

GRAHAM  UNFERMENTED  BREAD. 

One  and  one-half  pipts  Graham,  one-half  pint  flour,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one 
and  one-half  pints  of  milk,  or  equal  parts  milk  and  water  ;  sift  together 
Graham  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  powder  ;  add  milk  (or  milk  and  water) ; 
mix  rapidly  into  a  soft  dough,  which  pour  from  a  bowl  into  a  greased 
tin,  and  bake  in  a  rather  hot  oven  forty  minutes.  Protect  the  loaf  with 
paper  the  first  fifteen  minutes. 

GRAHAM  CRACKERS. 

One  quart  best  Graham  flour,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  half  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  two  teaspoonfuls  butter, 
and  little  more  than  one- half  pint  of  milk.  Sift  together  Graham,  sugar, 
salt  and  powder ;  rub  in  the  lard  cold,  add  the  milk,  and  mix  into  a 
smooth,  consistent  dough ;  flour  the  board,  turn  out  the  dough,  and 
knead  it  well  five  minutes ;  roll  it  with  the  rolling-pin  to  thickness  of 
one-quarter  inch;  cut  it  with  a  .knife  into  small  enveloped-shaped 
crackers ;  bake  in  rather  hot  oven,  with  care  (as  they  burn  easily),  ten 
minutes ;  handle  carefully  while  hot ;  when  cold,  store  for  use. 

GERMAN  BREAD. 

One  pint  bread  sponge ;  one  cup  sugar ;  one  t.^% ;  one  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut ;  beat  them  all  together  till  light ;  stir  in  flour  till  it 
is  as  thick  as  a  cake  ;  let  it  rise  till  light ;  then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
After  you  butter  your  tin,  sift  cinnamon  over  it,  and  just  before  baking 
sift  sugar  over  the  top  of  the  bread. 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES,  387 

PULLED  BREAD. 

Take  from  the  oven  an  ordinary  loaf  when  it  is  about  half  baked  and 
with  the  fingers,  while  the  bread  is  yet  hot,  quickly  pull  the  half-set 
dough  into  pieces  of  irregular  shape  about  the  size  of  an  &g<g.  Do  not 
attempt  to  smooth  or  flatten  them — the  rougher  their  shape  the  better. 
Set  them  upon  tins,  place  in  a  very  slow  oven  and  bake  to  a  rich 
brown.  This  forms  a  delicious  crisp  crust  to  eat  with  cheese,  milk  or 
cream. 

USES  OF  STALE  BREAD. 

I.  Make  a  dressing  of  meat — crumb  it  fine,  turn  hot  broth  over  it, 
season,  add  butter  and  a  well-beaten  t^g,  or  more,  according  to  quan- 
tity. 2.  Make  bread  pudding — soak  two  hours  in  sweet  milk,  then  beat 
eggs,  sugar  and  spices,  and  bake ;  fruit  sometimes  is  added.  3.  Make 
biscuit — soak  over  night  in  sour  milk,  mash  fine  with  the  hand  and  mix  in 
your  biscuit  for  breakfast,  adding  salt,  lard  and  soda.  They  are  better 
than  without  the  stale  bread.  4.  Make  pancakes  or  gems — soak  over 
night  in  sour  milk,  add  well-beaten  eggs,  corn  meal  and  Graham  flour 
to  make  a  batter,  and  soda  and  salt,  and  bake  on  a  griddle  or  in  a  gem 
pan.  5.  Crumb  fine  and  put  them  in  the  next  omelet  you  make.  6. 
Toast  your  bread ;  set  a  pan  of  milk  on  the  stove,  but  do  not  remove 
the  cream  from  it ;  add  butter  and  salt,  dip  the  bread  in  this  and  send 
to  the  table  for  supper  or  breakfast.  7.  Crumb  fine  and  put  in  your 
tomatoes  when  you  are  stewing  them.  8.  Pound  fine,  season  and  roll 
oysters  or  fresh  fish  in  them,  and  fry  in  nice  lard.  9.  Take  about  equal 
quantities  of  the  bread,  and  the  potatoes  that  were  boiled  the  day  before, 
and  after  cutting  them  into  small  pieces,  put  into  a  spider  and  add  a 
small  lump  of  butter,  also  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  on  enough  hot  water 
to  soak  the  bread.     This  is  for  breakfast. 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

Soda  biscuit  must  be  handled  as  little  as  possible,  made  rapidly  and 
put  directly  in  the  oven.  The  same  with  baking  powder  ones.  Mix  soda 
and  cream  tartar  or  baking  powder  in  the  flour  (use  baking  powder 
with  sweet  milk,  and  soda  with  sour),  so  the  effervescence  takes  place 
in  the  flour.  One  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  two  of  cream  tartar,  or  three 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  to  every  three  pints  of  flour,  is  a  proper 
proportion. 

Biscuits  and  gems  will  rise  more  quickly  if  put  into  hot  pans,  but 


388  BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

the  fire  should  be  built  some  time  before  the  biscuits  are  made,  for  if 
the  oven  is  too  hot,  the  biscuits  will  burn  before  they  can  raise. 

Biscuit  may  be  baked  in  this  way  in  eight  minutes.  Any  kind  of 
bread  or  pastry  mixed  with  water  requires  a  hotter  fire  than  that  mixed 
with  milk. 

Biscuit  and  rolls  should  be  allowed  to  rise  one-half  longer  than  bread 
rolls,  because  the  loaves  of  the  former,  being  smaller,  are  penetrated 
sooner  by  the  heat,  and  of  course  the  fermentation  is  stopped  sooner, 
and  the  rolls  do  not  rise  so  much  in  the  oven.  All  biscuit  and  bread 
except  brown  and  Graham  bread,  should  be  pricked  with  a  fork  before 
putting  them  in  the  oven. 

Wafifle  irons  should  be  heated,  then  buttered  or  greased  with  lard, 
and  one  side  filled  with  the  batter,  closed  and  laid  on  the  fire,  or  placed 
on  the  stove,  and  after  a  few  minutes  turned  and  browned  on  the  under 
side.  Muffins  are  baked  in  muffin  rings.  Both  muffins  and  waffles 
take  about  twice  as  long  to  bake  as  griddle  cakes.  In  eating  them,  do 
not  cut  but  break  open. 

Bread,  biscuit  and  cake  that  is  a  little  stale,  can  be  made  almost  as 
nice  as  when  fresh,  by  plunging  them  for  an  instant  in  cold  water,  and 
then  placing  in  an  oven  ten  or  fifteen  minutes ;  when  this  is  done  they 
should  be  eaten  immediately.  Crackers,  if  put  in  the  oven  (dry  not 
dipped)  a  moment,  will  taste  as  if  fresh  baked. 

Always  use  the  purest  soda,  cream  tartar  and  baking  powder.  Baking 
powder  is  often  made  at  home,  in  this  way  :  Eight  ounces  of  flour,  e'ght 
of  English  bi-carbonate  of  soda,  and  five  of  tartaric  acid;  mix  together 
by  passing  several  times  through  a  sieve. 

BISCUIT. 
To  one  quart  of  rich  buttermilk  add  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of  soda, 
one  of  salt,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  mix  quickly  and  as  little  as 
possible ;  roll  out  and  cut ;  bake  quickly.     If  they  are  yellow,  use  less 
soda ;  if  heavy,  more,  as  it  varies  in  strength. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT. 
One  pint  of  water,  one-half  cup  of  shortening  (half  lard  and  half  but- 
ter), one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  heaping  tablespoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Sift  your  flour  into  the  mixing  pan;  mix  the  baking  powder  and  salt 
into  the  center  part  of  flour  the  same  as  if  for  pie  crust ;  mix  as  little 
flour  as  possible,  just  enough  to  be  able  to  rofl  them  nicely;  scarcely 
knead  them  at  all ;  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven ;  this  recipe 
makes  eighteen  biscuits. 

TEA  BISCUIT. 
One-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  two  pints  flour,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  extract  nutmeg.      Sift  the  flour. 


1 


BISCUITS,  389 

sugar  and  powder  together ;  rub  in  the  butter  cold  and  add  enough 
sweet  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough — add  the  extract  last ;  roll  out  ball  an 
inch  thick  and  cut  out  with  a  biscuit  cutter;  wash  over  with  milk  and 
bake  twenty  minutes. 

CREAM  BISCUIT. 

One  pine  thick  sour  cream,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  tcaspoonfui 
cream  tartar.     Flour  sufficient  to  roll  out,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

SODA  BISCUIT. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar.  Put  both  in  the  flour  and  wet  with 
sweet  milk. 

DIXIE  BISCUIT. 

Three  pints  of  flour,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  one  small 
cup  of  yeast,  one  cup  of  milk  ;  mix  at  eleven  o'clock,  roll  out  at  four 
o'clock  and  cat  with  two  sizes  of  cutters,  putting  the  smaller  one  on 
top  ;  let  rise  until  supper.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

GRAHAM  BISCUIT. 

Three  cups  Graham  flour,  one  cup  white  flour,  three  cups  of  milk,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  lard  or  buUer,  one  heaping  large  spoonful  of  white 
sugar,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  on€  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls 
cream  tartar ;  mix  and  bake  as  ordinary  soda  biscuit.  They  are  good 
cold. 

FRUIT  BISCUIT. 

One  coffee  cup  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  raisins  (seedless  are 
best),  one  egg,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  flavor  with  vanilla 
and  lemon  extract  to  taste ;  the  raisins  to  be  chopped  fine.  Roll  out 
and  cut  thin  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Bake  in  a  dripping  pan  with  a 
greased  paper  in  the  bottom  of  tin. 

BUTTERMILK  BISCUIT. 

Three  pints  of  flour,  well  sifted,  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a 
pound  of  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  rubbed  fine  and  smooth ;  rub  all 
these  ingredients  well  together  and  mix  with  them  enough  buttermilk 
to  make  a  thin  dough  that  can  be  easily  handled  ;  roll  out  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven.     The  quicker  they  bake  the  lighter  and  better  they  are. 

INDIAN  LIGHT  BISCUIT. 

One  quart  of  sifted  Indian  meal,  a  pint  of  s'fted  wheat  flour,  a  very 
small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  pints  of  milk,  four  eggs.  Butter  a  suffi- 
cient number  of  cups,  or  small,  deep  tins;  nearly  fill   them  with  the 


390  BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

batter.  Set  them  immediately  into  a  hot  oven  and  bake  them  fast. 
Turn  them  out  of  the  cups,  send  them  warm  to  table,  pull  them  open 
and  eat  with  butter.  They  will  puff  up  finely  if,  at  the  last,  you  stir  in 
a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  melted  in  a  little  warm  water. 

MILK  BISCUIT. 

Two  pounds  flour,  one-fourth  pound  of  lard  or  butter,  one  teacup  of 
yeast ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  pint  of  milk ;  make  a  soft  dough  and 
set  at  ten  o'clock;  stir  at  three  and  mold  into  biscuits,  adding  more 
flour  if  necessary.  Let  them  rise  until  nearly  tea  time  and  bake  twenty 
minutes. 

SOFT-STIRRED  BISCUIT. 

One  quart  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda ;  add  flour  to  make  a 

thick  batter  and  bake  on  pie  tins. 

BUN  LOAF. 

Take  five  pounds  of  flour  and  five  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  mix  well ;  add 
one  pound  raisins,  one  pound  currants,  two  ounces  candied  peel,  two 
ounces  citron,  half-pound  brown  sugar,  half-pound  treacle,  half-pound 
lard  or  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  allspice.  When  these  are  well  mixed 
add  as  much  fresh  buttermilk  as  will  make  it  the  right  consistency. 
Bake  slowly  in  deep  tins,  as  it  will  rise  considerably. 

HOT  CROSS  BUNS. 

Three  cups  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  yeast ;  flour  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  batter;  set  this  as  a  sponge  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  melted  butter,  one-half  nutmeg;  saltspoonful 
of  salt ;  flour  enough  to  roll  out  like  biscuits ;  knead  well  and  set  to  rise 
five  hours.  Roll  half  an  inch  thick;  cut  into  round  cakes  and  put  in 
the  pan.  When  they  have  stood  half  an  hour  make  a  cross  on  each  one 
and  put  into  the  oven  instantly. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  ROLLS. 

Sixteen  cups  of  flour,  half  cup  of  sugar,  cup  of  butter,  cup  of  y^ast, 
the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  four  cups  of  boiling 
milk;  melt  the  butter  and  sugar  in  the  milk,  have  the  milk  blood  warm 
and  mix  the  bread,  adding  the  whites  of  eggs  after  mixing  in  part  of  the 
flour,  knead  stiff  and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing knead  into  rolls  and  let  rise  till  light ;  rub  the  beaten  white  of  an 
^gg  over  the  tops  of  rolls  and  bake  thirty  minutes. 

FRENCH  ROLLS. 

In  kneading  dough  for  the  day's  baking,  after  adding  and  working  in 
the  sponge,  set  aside  enough  for  a  loaf  of  tea-rolls,  work  into  this  a 


ROLLS  AND  RUSKS,  391 

heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter  and  let  it  stand  in  a  tolerably- 
cool  place,  out  of  all  draught,  for  four  hours ;  knead  again  and  let  it 
stand  three  hours  more ;  make  into  rolls  ;  roll  out  very  lightly  pieces  of 
the  dough  into  round  cakes  and  fold  these  not  quite  in  the  center,  like 
turnovers ;  let  it  raise  for  an  hour,  bake  steadily  half  an  hour,  or  less  if 
the  oven  is  quick.     Can  make  Graham  rolls  the  same  way. 

VEAL  ROLLS. 

Ingredients — The  remains  of  a  cold  fillet  of  veal,  ^^'g  and  bread 
crumbs ;  a  few  slices  of  fat  bacon ;  force  meat.  Mode — Cut  a  few 
slices  from  a  cold  fillet  of  veal  one-half  inch  thick ;  rub  them  over  with 
^gg ;  lay  a  thin  piece  of  fat  bacon  over  each  piece  of  veal ;  brush  these 
with  the  ^gg,  and  over  this  spread  the  force  meat  thinly;  roll  up  each 
piece  tightly  ;  ^gg  and  bread  crumb  them  and  fry  them  a  rich  brown  ; 
serve  with  mushroom  sauce  or  brown  gravy.  Time,  ten  to  fifteen  min- 
utes to  fry  the  roils. 

RAISED  ROLLS. 

Two  quarts  of  flour ;  make  a  hole  in  the  center  and  put  in  a  piece  of 
butter  size  of  an  &gg,  a  little  salt,  a  tablespoonful  sugar ;  scald  and 
cool  one  pint  milk  and  pour  in  ;  beat  smooth  and  at  last  add  half  a  tea- 
cup of  good,  lively  yeast.  When  this  sponge  is  light,  knead  fifteen 
minutes ;  let  rise  and  cut  in  round  cakes  thin  ;  butter  one  half  of  cake 
and  turn  over  on  itself;  let  it  rise  again  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

Scald  one  quart  of  rich  milk  and  set  a  sponge  with  yeast,  adding  salt 
and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  tgg ;  do  this  right  after  breakfast , 
when  light  make  a  soft  dough  and  let  it  rise  again  and  roll  out  about  an 
inch  thick ;  cut  into  large,  round  pieces  ;  lay  little  bits  of  butter  on  one 
side  of  each,  then  fold  over  the  other  side  as  for  ordinary  rolls ;  let  them 
rise  again  and  bake  a  light  brown  for  tea. 

CINNAMON  ROLLS. 

Take  light  dough  as  for  bread  ;  mix  in  shortening,  an  ^gg  and  a  little 
sugar ;  roll  out  to  about  quarter  inch  thickness ;  spread  with  butter, 
then  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnatnon  ;  roll  up  and  cut  as  you  would  a 
jelly  cake  ;  put  in  pans  like  biscuit ;  set  to  rise.  When  light  put  a  lump 
of  butter  and  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  each  one  and  bake. 

RAISED   RUSKS. 

Take  one  pint  of  bread  sponge,  one  %gg,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  half  a 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  half  a  cupful  of  butter  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  stir  all  thoroughly   together,  and  let  it  rise  till  very 


392  BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

light ;  knend  it  down  again  and  let  it  rise,  then  mold  into  biscuits  about 
the  size  of  an  ^gz^  V^^  them  quite  ciose  together  in  the  tin,  and  let 
them  rise  till  veiy  light;  bake  a  litde  longer  than  common  biscuits,  and 
until  the  top  is  a  dark  brown. 

QUICK  MADE  RUSKS. 

One  and  a  half  pints  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  two  tablespoonfuls  lard,  three 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  each  extract  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  and  one  pint 
milk.  Sift  together  the  flour,  salt,  s"gar  and  powder ;  rub  in  the  lard 
cold  ;  add  the  milk,  beaten  eggs  and  extracts ;  mix  into  a  dough  soft 
enough  to  handle  ;  turn  out  on  the  board  ;  give  a  quick  turn  or  two  to 
compete  its  smoothness;  break  off  imo  small  pieces;  roll  them  under 
the  hand  into  small  balls  round  and  about  as  large  as  a  small  ^g^  ;  lay 
in  a  well  greased  shallow  baking  pan  very  close  together ;  wash  over 
with  a  little  melted  butter  and  milk;  bake  in  moderate  oven  about 
thirty  minutes;  when  cold  sift  fine  white  sugar  over  them. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

Take  a  piece  of  raised  dough,  when  you  are  making  yeast  breads 
large  enough  to  fill  two  good  sized  dripping  pans,  allowing  it  to  be 
nearly  an  inch  in  thickness;  work  into  this  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
two  eggs,  butter  or  lard  the  size  of  an  egg;  work  well  into  the  dough  ; 
flavor  with  essence  of  lemon,  and  pui  to  raise  as  you  would  bread. 
When  raised  well,  work  over  and  roll  out  the  desired  thickness ;  put  in 
pans,  and  when  raised  again  brush  the  top. with  butter,  sprinkle  over  it 
sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  put  to  bake.  This  does  not  need  rising 
twice  unless  liked  best. 

Or  this  :  One  pint  of  good  yeast ;  the  same  amount  of  sugar,  eggs 
and  butter;  one-quarter  pound  or  more  of  raisins,  either  whole  or 
chopped  as  you  like  best;  mix  well  and  raise  twice  or  three  times 
before  baking;  sprinkle  the  top  of  this  also  with  cinnamon  and  sugir. 
Some  brush  the  top  lightly  with  the  )cllow  of  eggs  to  hold  the  sugar 
on  ;  either  of  the  two  ways  is  good. 

UNBOLTED  WHEAT  GEMS. 

One  t%%,  two  cups  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  even  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  of  cream  tartar; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.     You  will  find  ihem  superior  to  Graham  gems. 

SWEET  LOAF. 

A  quart  of  light  dough  that  has  been  r;iised  with  hop  yeast ;  knead  in 
half  cup  shortening,  cup  of  raisin'^,  cup  of  '■ugar,  nutmeg  to  taste;  let 
it  rise  again.     To  be  eaten  cold,  sliced  and  buuered. 


SCOTCH  SHORT-BREAD,  393 

EGG  BREAD. 

To  one  pint  of  com  meal  take  two  eggs,  one-half  tablespoon ful  of  lard 
and  S'^lt  to  tasie;  four  tablespoonfuls  of  apple  vinegar,  mixed  with  boil- 
ing water  enough  to  make  the  meal  into  batter ;  lastly  stir  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda.  This  recipe  makes  excellent  ^^'g  bread  without  either 
buttermilk  or  cream  of  tartar.  With  corn  meal  and  flour  mixed  half 
and  half,  delightful  waffles  and  baiter  cakes  can  be  made  by  the  same 
recipe. 

INDIAN  EGG  BREAD. 

One-half  cup  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  a  pint  of  milk  two  eggs,  two 
cups  Indian  meal,  one  tablespoonful  lard  or  butter,  one  teaspoonful  salt. 
Beat  bread  crumbs  to  a  smooth  batter;  beat  eggs  very  light,  melt  the 
shortening  and  stir  all  together  very  hard.  Bake  in  shallow  tins  very 
quickly.     Eat  hot. 

SOUTHERN  CORN  BREAD. 

To  one  pint  of  corn  meal  partly  scalded,  take  half  a  pint  of  sour 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  eggs,  a  dessert  spoonful  of  melted 
lard,  and  a  litile  salt ;  if  the  batter  is  too  stiff,  add  a  httle  more  milk ; 
have  oven  hot ;  bake  in  shallow  tin. 

BEEF  LOAF. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  beefsteak  chopped  very  fine  and  free 
from  grizzle;  two  cups  of  rolled  crackers  (fine) ;  one  cup  of  cold  water, 
one-half  cup  of  butter ;  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste ;  bake  till  done. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. 

Two  teacups  sour  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  ^%%,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  one  t%%,  a  little  salt,  half  a  teacupful  of  flour,  thicken 
with  corn  meal,  adding  a  large  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  bake  at  least  a 
half  an  hour.  The  difficulty  in  getting  johnny  cake  good  is  in  getting 
the  batter  the  right  thickness,  and  this  you  can  only  tell  by  experiment- 
ing; if  loo  thick,  it  will  be  dry,  and  if  too  thin,  sticky.  It  is  nice  made 
witl\  sour  cream,  leaving  out  the  butter. 

SCOTCH  SHORT-BREAD. 

Rub  together  into  a  stiff,  short  paste,  two  pounds  flour,  one  pound 
butter  and  six  ounces  loaf  sugir;  m.ake  it  into  square  cakes,  about 
half  an  inch  thick,  pinch  them  all  along  the  edge  at  the  top ;  over  the 
whole  surface  of  the  cakes  sprinkle  some  white  comfits  ;  put  the  cakes 
on  tins  so  as  to  touch  each  other  on  their  edges,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven. 


394  EGGS. 


EGG  GEMS. 

Mix  together  any  kind  of  cold  meat  (chopped  fine),  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  bread  crumbs  ;  use  pepper,  salt,  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little 
milk;  fill  some  buttered  gem-pans  with  the  mixture,  then  carefully 
break  an  ^gg  on  the  top  of  each ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
sprinkle  some  very  fine  cracker  crumbs  on  top  ;  bake  eight  minutes ;  a 
little  grated  cheese  may  be  added  to  the  cracker,  if  desired. 

FRIED  BREAD. 

Take  dry  bread,  dip  it  into  hot  water  quickly,  and  lay  on  to  a  hot 
pancake  griddle,  which  has  some  lard  or  butter  melted ;  salt,  and  when 
nicely  browned  on  one  side,  turn  on  the  other  and  brown ;  add  more 
butter  when  needed.     Some  prefer  the  bread  dipped  in  tgg  first. 

SWEETENED  FRIED  BREAD. 

Beat  three  eggs  very  light  and  stir  into  one  pint  of  sweet  milk ;  slice 
some  bread ;  dip  into  the  milk  and  eggs  and  fry  a  light  brown  in  butter 
and  lard.     Sprinkle  over  the  top  with  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

SWEET  POTATO  SHORT  CAKE. 

Take  two  potatoes  to  three  pints  of  flour,  mash  the  lard  in  the  pota- 
toes (same  quantity  as  you  use  for  ordinary  short  cake),  rub  them  and 
flour  smoothly  together  without  working  ;  roll  out,  bake  in  quick  oven  ; 
use  yeast  powder. 


EGGS. 


BAKED  EGGS. 

Beat  up  six  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  six  of  sweet  milk ;  melt  a 
piece  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan  ;  when  hot,  turn  the  whole  in  and  bake 
in  a  very  hot  oven ;  to  be  served  as  soon  as  done. 


STUFFED  EGGS. 


Boil  the  eggs  hard;  then  cut  them  in  two  carefully;  remove  the  yel- 
low and  mix  it  with  fried  onions,  salt,  pepper  and  a  Httle  parsley,  and  a 
little  ham  chopped  fine.  Fill  the  whites  with  this  and  fry  so  as  to 
brown  the  yellow. 


POACHED  EGGS. 


Poached  eggs  can  be  made  very  appetizing.  Have  a  little  boiling 
water  with  vinegar,  peppercorns  and  salt,  ready.  Break  the  eggs  in 
whole,  and  when  done,  serve  on  toast. 


FRITTERS.  395 


SCALLOPED  EGGS. 


Make  a  force  meat  of  finely  chopped  ham,  fine  bread  crumbs,  pepper, 
salt,  a  little  minced  parsley  and  some  melted  batter.  Moisten  with 
cream,  or  milk,  to  a  soft  paste,  and  half  fill  some  patty  pans  or  scallop 
shells  with  the  mixture. 


FRITTERS. 

POTATO  FRITTERS. 

Grate  six  cold  boiled  potatoes  ;  add  one  pint  of  cream,  or  milk  and 
flour  enough  to  make  stiff  as  other  fritters  ;  the  yolks  of  three  eggs ; 
then  the  beaten  whites,  a  little  salt ;  fry  in  hot  lard. 

CROQUETTES. 

One  cup  full  of  minced  meat,  two  cups  of  bread  crumbed  or  soaked 
soft,  one  G.gg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  fry  in  spoonfuls  in  boiling 
lard. 

CRULLERS. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs ;  beat  well  together ;  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  lard  from  the  kettle,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sweet 
milk  (or  cold  water),  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  mixed  with  flour,  to  roll ;  flavor  with  ground  cinnamon ; 
cut  in  rings,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

MATRIMONIES. 

Three  eggs,  well  beaten,  a  little  salt,  flour  enough  to  mix  hard  ;  roll 
thin  as  paper ;  cut  into  fingers  and  give  them  a  twist.  Fry  in  hot  lard, 
hotter  than  for  common  fried  cakes. 

RASPBERRY  FRITTERS. 

Make  a  batter  of  a  pint  of  milk,  one  ^gg,  a  little  salt  and  enough  flour 
to  make  a  mixture  that  will  drop  from  a  spoon.  Add  a  cup  of  fine 
raspberries,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar  mixed  with  them. 
Fry  in  hot  lard  and  dash  with  powdered  sugar.  x 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

Two  cups  of  grated  com,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  flour  for  thin 
batter,  a  pinch  of  soda,  salt,  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter.  Mix  and 
fry  as  you  would  griddle  cakes. 


S9G  FRITTERS. 

CREAM  FRITTERa 

Beat  three  eggs  to  a  froth,  add  half  a  pint  of  cream,  the  same  of 
milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  pint  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  pow- 
der; stir  to  a  smooth  batter;  fry  in  hot  lard  the  same  as  doughnuts. 
These  are  good  hot  or  cold.  Serve  with  sweetened  cream  or  maple 
molasses. 

APPLE  FRITTERS. 

Beat  three  eggs  very  lightly,  then  stir  in  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  cups  of  chopped  apple  and 
two  cups  of  flour.  Flavor  with  nutmeg.  Stir  all  well  together  and  fry 
in  lard  as  pancakes.     Sift  sugar  over  them  and  send  to  the  table. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  pint  sour  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda^ 
half  a  small  cup  of  lard,  nutmeg  to  flavor.  Mix  to  a  moderately  stiff 
dough,  roll  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  in  rings  or  twists,  drop  into  boiling 
lard  and  fry  light  brown. 

MOONSHINES. 

Roll  a  coffee  cup  of  pale  yellow  sugar ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  six 
eggs  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  beat  well  and  pour  into  the  flour  tray  and 
work  into  a  soft  dough ;  roll  very  thin  and  cut  out  with  a  tumbler,  drop 
into  a  frying  pan  of  hot  lard  and  cook  quickly.  When  done,  sift  white 
sugar  over  them. 

HOMINY  CROQUETTES. 

To  a  cup  of  cold,  boiled  hominy  (small  grained),  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  melted  butter,  and  stir  hard,  moistening  by  degrees  with  a  cup- 
ful of  rich  milk,  beating  to  a  soft  paste.  Put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
and,  lastly,  a  well-beaten  egg.  Roll  into  oval  balls  and  dip  into  beaten 
Gigg,  then  into  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Flour  your  hands 
before  rolling  them. 

BREAD  FRIED  CAKES. 

Take  any  bits  of  bread  you  may  have  left  after  meals ;  soak  them  in 
milk,  or  milk  and  water,  until  perfectly  soft ;  mash  fine  ;  add  two  eggs, 
pinch  of  soda,  salt  to  taste,  and  enough  flour  to  make  them  fry  nicely ; 
drop  the  spoonfuls  into  hot  butter  or  lard.  These  are  inexpensive  and 
good,  and  a  better  way  to  use  dry  bread,  than  in  puddings. 

CRULLERS. 

Two  coffee  cups  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  a  heaping  table- 
spoon of  buiter,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  mixed  with  six  cups  of 


GRIDDLE  CAKES.  897 

flour,  half  a  nutmeg,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Beat  eggs,  sugar 
and  butter  togeiher  ;  add  milk,  spice  and  flour;  put  anotiiercup  of  flour 
on  molding-board,  turn  the  dough  out  on  it  and  knead  until  stiff 
enough  to  roll  out  to  a  quarter-inch  thick  ;  cut  in  squares;  make  three 
or  four  long  incisions  in  each  square;  lift  by  taking  alternate  strips 
between  the  finger  and  thumb  ;  drop  in  hot  larJ  and  cook  as  doughnuts. 

GREEN  CORN  FRITTERS. 
Grate  green  corn  from  the  cob,  and  allow  an  ^%^  and  a  half  for  every 
cup,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  milk  or  cream  ;  beat  the  eggs  well ;  add 
the  corn  by  degrees,  beating  very  hard ;  salt  to  taste.  I'ut  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  buiter  to  every  pint  of  corn  ;  stir  in  the  milk  and 
thicken  with  just  enough  flour  to  hold  them  together — say  a  tablespoon- 
ful lor  every  two  eggs.  Fry  in  hot  lard,  as  you  would  fritters,  or  cook 
upon  a  g^riddle,  like  batter  cakes ;  eaten  at  dinner  or  breakfast  these 
always  find  a  cordial  welcome. 

JOLLY  BOYS. 

One  cup  of  sour  milk,  half  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  (dissolve  soda 
in  a  little  of  the  sour  milk  with  a  pinch  of  salt),  one  t.<gg  beaten  light, 
one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  (think  the  children  will  like  two),  of 
molasses.  Mix  rye  meal  with  the  milk,  to  the  consistency  of  a  thin  bit- 
ter, and  then  add  Indian  meal  until  the  batter  becomes  a  stiff  one. 
Last  of  all  stir  in  the  ^gg.  Drop  from  tablespoon  (about  half  a  spoonful 
at  a  time),  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  drippings  or  lard,  and  brown  as  you 
would  crullers  or  fried  cakes.  If  ihey  are  rightly  made  they  will  pop 
over  themselves  when  done  on  ore  side,  in  a  light  and  buoyant  manner, 
and  that's  why  they  are  called  "  jolly  boys." 


GEIDDLE  CAKES. 

APPLE  PANCAKES. 

Make  one  quart  of  batter  as  for  any  other  pancake,  and  add  one  cup 
of  finely  chopped  apple.  The  latter  must  be  stirred  each  time  a  spoon- 
ful is  taken  out  in  order  to  equalize  it. 

CREAM  PANCAKES. 

Mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  a  pint  of  cream,  two 
ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  a  little  nutnne^,  cinnamon  and  mace.  Rub  the 
pan  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  fry  the  pancakes  thin. 


398  GRIDDLE  CAKES, 

GREEN  CORN  CAKES. 

Six  ears  grated  corn,  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk  and  water,  equal 
parts,  one  pint  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt ;  bake 
on  griddle. 

HOMINY  CAKES. 

To  one  pint  of  warm  boiled  hominy  add  a  pint  of  milk  or  water,  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter;  beat  up  two  or  three  eggs,  and 
stir  them  into  the  batter  with  a  little  salt.     Fry  as  any  other  cakes. 

RICE  GEM  CAKES. 

To  one  pint  soft  boiled  rice,  add  a  teacup  flour,  a  tablespoonful  but- 
ter, a  little  salt,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  milk  enough  to  make  a  batter. 
Bake  on  a  griddle  or  pour  in  well  greased  gem-pans. 

PANCAKES. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar,  one  t.^g,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  soda  and  two  of  cream 
tartar ;  make  as  stiff  as  batter.     They  are  delicious  for  breakfast. 

RICE  CAKES. 

One  cup  cold  boiled  rice,  one  pint  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  two 
eggs  beaten  very  light,  milk  to  make  a  tolerably  thick  batter.  Beat  all 
together  well  and  bake. 

GRAHAM  PANCAKES. 

Wholesome  and  most  palatable  pancakes  may  be  made  as  follows : 
Using  one-half  wheat  flour  and  one-half  Graham,  mix  with  sour,  or  but- 
termilk and  soda  (small  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  one  quart  of  milk) ;  add 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and,  if  desired,  one  tgg ;  have  the  batter  a  little  thinner 
than  when  wheat  flour  is  used  alone ;  bake  immediately  on  a  hot  griddle. 

JACKEY  CAKES. 

Six  tablespoonfuls  of  white  Indian  meal,  pinch  of  salt,  half  teacup 
of  milk ;  thoroughly  scald  with  boiling  water,  add  milk,  and  drop  from 
tablespoon  into  boiling  hot  lard  or  drippings  in  frying-pan  or  spider ; 
fry  a  dark  brown  on  both  sides.  When  done,  open  and  insert  a  bit  of 
butter  and  then  eat. 

CORN  PANCAKES. 

After  stripping  the  husks  from  half  a  dozen  ears,  grate  them  on  a 
coarse  grater;  scrape  from  the  cob  any  pulp  that  may  remain  ;  to  that 
add  an  ^^'g  beaten  somewhat,  then  pour  in  a  teacup  of  rich  (sweet) 
milk ;  drop  in  a  good  pinch  of  salt ;  scatter  in  a  good  handful  of  fresh 
bread  crumbs,  then  add  flour  until  the  mixture  is  of  the  consistency  of 
griddle  cake  batter ;  then  fry  them  on  a  hot,  well-buttered  griddle. 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES.  399 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

One  quart  buckwheat,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast,  one  tablespoonful 
of  salt,  one  handful  Indian  meal,  two  tablespoonfuls  molasses  (not  syrup), 
warm  water  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter;  beat  well,  and  set  to  rise  in 
a  warm  place.  If  the  batter  is  a  little  sour  in  the  morning,  add  a  very 
little  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water ;  mix  in  an  earthen  crock,  and  leave 
some  in  the  bottom  each  morning — a  cupful  or  so — to  serve  as  sponge 
for  the  next  night,  instead  of  getting  fresh  yeast.  In  cold  weather  this 
plan  can  be  successfully  pursued  for  a  week  or  ten  days  without  setting 
a  new  supply.  Of  course,  you  add  the  usual  quantity  of  flour,  etc.,  every 
night,  and  beat  up  well.  Do  not  make  your  cakes  too  small.  Some 
put  two-thirds  buckwheat  and  one-third  oatmeal,  omitting  the  Indian. 

KENTUCKY  CORN  DODGERS. 

Place  your  griddle  where  it  will  heat,  for  this  is  much  better  than  a 
breadpan,  there  being  less  danger  of  scorching  at  the  bottom.  Take 
an  even  pint  of  sifted  meal,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  and  a  scant  half  pint  of  cold  water;  mix  well  and  let  it  stand  while 
you  grease  your  griddle  and  sprinkle  some  meal  over  it.  Make  the 
dough  into  rolls  the  size  and  shape  of  goose  eggs,  and  drop  them  on 
the  griddle,  taking  care  to  flatten  as  little  as  possible,  for  the  less  bot- 
tom crust  the  better.  Place  in  the  oven  and  bake  until  brov/n  on  the 
bottom.  Then  change  to  the  grate,  and  brown  on  top,  taking  from 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes  for  the  whole  process.  Eaten  while  hot  with 
plenty  of  good  butter,  they  are  better  than  any  other  bread. 

The  same  amount  of  meal,  lard  and  salt  mixed  with  boiling  water, 
till  of  the  consistency  of  thick  batter,  will  give  delightful  hot  cakes,  to 
be  cooked  like  any  other  batter  bread. 

MEAT  CAKES. 

Take  cold  meat,  mince  fine  with  fat  bacon,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  mix  well,  fry  in  cakes  and  serve  in  gravy. 

FRIED  BUCKWHEAT  MUSH. 

Take  the  water  where  you  have  boiled  fresh  pork  or  beef,  salt  to 
taste;  then  stir  it  as  thick  as  mush  with  buckwheat  flour.  Cook 
thoroughly  and  turn  in  a  pan  to  cool ;  cut  in  slices  and  fry  in  butter. 

OATMEAL  CAKES. 

Take  a  pint  bowl  of  cold  oatmeal  mush  ;  stir  in  half  a  cup  of  boiling 
vv^ater  to  moisten  ;  add  two  eggs  beaten  very  lightly  ;  then  add  cold  milk 
enough  to  make  a  thin  batter,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  (to 
keep  them  from  breaking)  and  bake  on  a  griddle. 


400  MUFFINS, 


MUFFINS. 

MUFFINS. 

One  quart  flour,  two  eg-gs  beaten  separately,  one  tablesnoonful  lard, 
one  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt  and  two  of  baking-  powder,  one  cup 
sour  milk;  beat  well  and  bake  in  muffin  rings  immeaiaLely. 

RICE  MUFFINS. 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  cup  of  cold 
boiled  rice,  two  eggs,  one  quart  of  milk  and  one  pint  of  flour. 

RAISED  MUFFINS. 

One  pint  raised  dough,  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  butter,  half  a 
cup  while  sugar.  When  your  bread  has  passed  its  second  rising,  work 
into  the  above  named  quantity  the  melted  butter,  then  the  eggs  and 
sugar,  beaten  together  till  very  light.  Bake  about  twenty  miuuies  in 
muffin  rings. 

TEA  MUFFINS. 

One  quart  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  well  mixed ; 
add  three  eggs  well  beaten,  two  tablespoonfuis  of  meiLtd  bulier  and 
one  pint  of  niiik.     Bake  in  rings  in  a  quick  oven. 

CORN  MUFFINS. 

One  teacup  corn  meal,  two  of  wheat  flour,  half  teacup  ?ugar,  half 
teacup  butter,  three  eggs,  pint  of  milk.  Bake  in  corn  muffin  tins  if  you 
have  them,  if  not,  in  patty  pans.     This  is  nice  baked  as  johnny  cake. 

BREAKFAST  MUFFINS. 

One  pint  milk,  one  egg.  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  a  hen's  tg^,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teacup  of  yeast,  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.     Rise  over  night  and  bake  in  rings. 

TEA  CRUMPETS. 

Beat  two  eggs  to  two  quarts  of  warm  milk  and  water  and  a  large 
spoonful  of  yeast;  beat  in  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter;  make  your 
plate  very  hot,  rub  with  a  little  butter,  then  bake  in  cakes  the  size  of  a 
saucer;  turn  them,  brown,  butter.     They  must  be  kept  very  hot. 

WAFERS. 

One  pound  flour,  two  tablespoonfuis  butter,  a  little  salt;  mix  with 
sweet  milk  into  a  stiff  dough  ;   roll  out  very  thin ;  cut  into  round  cakes. 


OMELETS.  401 

and  again  roll  these  as  thin  as  they  can  be  handled ;  lift  carefully ;  lay 
in  a  pan  ;  bake  quickly ;  flour  the  baking  pan  instead  of  greasing. 

ENGLISH  CRUMPETS. 
Three  cups  warm  milk,  half  a  cup  yeast,  two  tablespoonfuls  melted 
butter,  one  saltspoonful  salt,  the  same  of  soda  dissolved  in  warm  water, 
butter  flour  to  make  a  good  batter.  Set  these  ingredients,  leaving  out 
the  and  soda,  as  a  sponge ;  when  very  light  beat  in  the  melted  butter 
with  a  ver}^  little  flour  to  prevent  the  butter  from  thinning  the  batter  too 
much ;  stir  in  the  soda  hard ;  fill  patty-pans  or  muffin-rings  with  the 
mixture  and  let  them  stand  fifteen  minutes  before  baking. 

ENGLISH  BREAKFAST  MUFFINS. 

One  pint  sweet  milk,  or  half  milk  and  half  water,  one  teaspoonful 
salt;  stir  batter  with  white  flour;  set  away  anywhere  till  it  gets  sour,  or 
it  smells  like  yeast.  Two  days  will  make  it  right  in  warm  weather,  then 
at  breakfast  time  add  what  sweet  milk  and  water  (or  either  alone)  will 
make  enough  for  your  family ;  also  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  little 
salt,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  in  boiling  water;  stir  to  a  batter 
with  white  flour,  Graham  or  corn  flour,  or  a  mixture  of  any  of  the  three 
kinds.  Leave  one  cup  or  more  of  the  batter  each  time  to  raise  the 
next  lot  with. 


OMELETS. 

PLAIN  OMELET. 

Break  all  your  eggs  in  one  dish  ;  stir  rather  than  beat  up  the  yolks 
and  whites ;  to  each  three  eggs  you  use  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  cold 
water ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  put  two  ounces  of  butter  in  the  pan ; 
when  the  butter  is  very  hot  pour  in  the  eggs  ;  just  as  soon  as  cooked  on 
one  side  turn  quickly  and  cook  on  the  other  side  ;  double  over  and  serve 
on  a  very  hot  plate.  The  cold  water  in  the  eggs  makes  the  omelet 
light  and  moist. 

BREAD  OMELET. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  teacup  of  bread  crumbs,  one  teacup  of  cream, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  with  salt  and  pepper;  when  the  bread 
has  absorbed  the  cream,  work  in  two  beaten  eggs;  beat  them  a  little 
with  the  mixture ;  fry  in  an  omelet  pan  and  roll  up. 

HAM  OMELET. 

Chop  up  fine  one-half  pound  of  cold  boiled  ham  ;  add  to  it  four  eggs, 
well  beaten,  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper ;   place  in  a  pan  a  small  piece 
of  butter,  then  turn  in  the  eggs  and  ham,  and  brown. 
26 


402  PORRIDGE  AND  MUSH, 

BEEFSTEAK  OMELET. 

Three  pounds  raw  steak,  and  one  slice  salt  pork,  chopped  fine;  then 
soda  crackers  rolled,  one  egg,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  small  piece  of  butter, 
two  teaspooofuls  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  sage,  half  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per ;  mix  with  the  hands  ;  pack  in  a  tin  and  bake  one  hour  and  a  half. 
When  cold  slice  thin. 

TOMATO  OMELET. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  tomatoes,  skin  and  cut  fine.  To  one 
quart  put  two  chopped  onions,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  &g^ ;  let 
them  boil  half  an  hour,  then  mash  them  ;  put  in  two  small  cups  of  bread 
crumbs,  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  ;  sprinkle 
a  thick  layer  of  crumbs  on  the  top  and  bake  until  a  light  brown.  If  the 
given  quantity  of  bread  does  not  seem  enough,  add  until  it  is  thick 
enough. 

MEAT  OMELET. 

Take  one  teacup  lean  cooked  ham,  chopped  fine;  put  in  a  bowl 
and  break  in  five  or  six  eggs ;  add  a  little  pepper  and  beat  all  together. 
Have  your  frying-pan  hot,  with  a  good  piece  of  butter  in  it ;  put  the 
mixture  into  it.  When  it  is  set,  double  one  half  on  to  the  other  and  let 
it  stand  a  few  mJnutes,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  serve.  Any  other  kind 
of  meat  may  be  used,  and  different  kinds  of  sweet  herbs  for  flavoring. 


PORRIDGE  AND  MUSH. 

OATMEAL  PORRIDGE. 

Clean,  aromatic,  coarse,  dry  meal  must  be  got  from  some  shop  where 
they  know  what  is  good  in  the  way  of  oatmeal.  The  meal  must 
be  stored  as  carefully  as  tea  in  a  covered  dry  jar,  so  that  neither  must, 
mice  nor  beetles  can  defile  it.  The  saucepan  must  be  the  pink  of 
cleanliness,  and  must  not  have  been  used  for  anything  other  than  milk 
and  breadstuff s.  Saucepans  in  which  potatoes,  greens  or  meats  have 
been  cooked  are  never  pure  enough  for  milk  and  breadstuffs.  With 
such  materials  the  making  of  delicious  porridge  is  easy,  but  without 
them  it  is  impossible.  Bearing  in  mind  the  principle  on  which  bread- 
stuffs  and  milk  are  to  be  combined  in  food,  we  perceive  that  the  meal 
must  be  cooked  in  water.  Therefore,  having  clean  boiling  water  in  the 
saucepan,  we  take  a  small  teacupful  of  meal  (two  or  three  ounces)  for 
each  pint  of  water  m  the  saucepan.  Draw  the  saucepan  of  boiling 
water  off  the  fire  and  then  sift  the  meal  through  the  fingers.     The  meal 


PORRIDGE  AND  MUSH.  403 

must  be  sifted  into  the  water  so  as  to  be  evenly  spread  over  the  sur- 
face, and  to  sink  free  from  lumps.  Then  push  the  saucepan  fully  on 
the  fire  and  boil  briskly  for  a  minute  or  two,  so  as  to  thoroughly  mix 
the  meal  up  with  the  water  before  it  begins  to  thicken.  Next  boil 
slowly  for  three  or  four  minutes  or  quarter  of  an  hour,  according  to  the 
coarseness  of  the  meal. 

Care  must  be  taken  that  the  porridge  is  just  kept  on  the  move,  and  it 
nust  be  stirred,  if  necessary,  so  as  not  to  bum,  and  not  to  get  lumpy. 
Smoke  and  soot  must  be  carefully  kept  from  contaminating  it.  The 
porridge  is  now  cooked  so  far  that  all  the  starch  granules  are  fully 
burst,  and  the  meal  is  properly  disintegrated.  Now  pour  out  the  por- 
ridge like  a  thin  custard  into  a  vegetable  dish,  and  leave  it  to  cool 
uncovered.  If  successful,  the  porridge  on  cooling  will  set  or  gelatinize ; 
a  brownish  skin  forms  over  the  surface,  and  as  this  contracts,  the  por-r 
ridge  separates  all  round  from  the  dish  at  its  edge.  It  becomes  a  soft 
tremulous  jelly,  perfectly  cooked,  sweet  in  flavor,  uniform  in  consist- 
ence, and  free  from  contamination  by  dirty  saucepans,  by  burning,  or  by 
the  defilement  of  soot  and  smoke.  It  should  be  eaten  at  the  end  of 
breakfast  with  cold  milk,  and  it  makes  a  most  excellent  supper. 

A  saucerful  of  such  porridge  put  into  a  soup  plate  and  a  half-pint 
mug  of  good,  rich  new  milk  is,  indeed,  a  lunch  or  a  supper,  or  a  finish 
to  breakfast,  which  is  fit  for  a  king.  It  is  a  food  on  which  any  man  can 
do  anything  of  which  he  is  capable  in  the  way  of  labor,  mental  or  phys- 
ical. For  growing  children,  and  youths  who  are  stunted  in  height  or 
unsound  in  structure,  this  is  exactly  the  food  that  is  wanted.  It  is  like 
bricks  and  mortar  for  the  growing  frame  of  infants,  school-children 
and  overgrown  youths. 

OATMEAL  MUSH. 

First  wet  a  coffee-cup  of  oatmeal  in  cold  water  (to  prevent  the  mush 
being  lumpy) ;  then  stir  into  this  three  pints  of  boiling  water ;  let  this 
boil  half  an  hour,  stirring  frequently ;  then  add  salt  to  taste,  and  boil 
another  half  hour.  This  is  nice  for  any  meal,  breakfast,  dinner  or  sup-r 
per,  and  makes  a  good  simple  dessert  for  dinner  by  serving  with  cream 
and  sugar. 

CORN  PORRIDGE. 

Take  young  com  and  cut  the  grains  from  the  cob.  Measure  it,  and 
to  each  heaping  pint  of  corn  allow  nearly  a  quart  of  milk.  Put  the 
corn  and  milk  into  a  pot,  stir  them  well  together,  and  boil  till  the 
corn  is  perfectly  soft.  Then  add  some  bits  of  fresh  butter  dredged 
with  flour,  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes  longer.  Stir  in  at  the  last,  some 
beaten  yolks  of  ^.gg,  and  in  three  minutes  remove  it  from  the  fire.  Take 
up  the  porridge,  send  it  to  the  table  hot,  and  stir  some  fresh  butter  into 
it.     Add  sugar  and  nutmeg  if  liked. 


404  PORRIDGE  AND  MUSH, 

BUTTERMILK  POP. 

Boil  one  quart  of  fresh  buttermilk  ;  beat  one  tg'g,  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  together,  and  pour  into  the  boiling 
milk.  Stir  briskly  and  boil  for  two  or  three  minutes,  and  serve  while 
warm  with  sugar,  or,  better  still,  maple  syrup.  Although  this  is  an  old- 
fashioned  and  homely  dish,  eaten  and  relished  by  our  grandparents 
before  cornstarch,  sea  moss  farina,  dessicated  cocoanut  and  other  sim- 
ilar delicacies  were  ever  heard  of,  it  is  perhaps  as  nutritious  as  any  of 
them,  and  often  far  more  easily  obtained. 

CRACKED  WHEAT. 

Soak  it  the  same  as  the  oat  meal,  and  as  it  is  apt  to  bum,  put  it  in  a 
little  tin  pail,  and  set  the  pail  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water ;  cover  closely 
and  let  it  boil  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Stir  this  into  boiling 
water,  the  same  as  the  oat  meal. 

FRIED  MUSH. 

Stir  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  cup  of  flour  mixed  with  one  quart  of 
Indian  meal,  into  a  quart  of  boiling  water;  beat  it  well,  and  boil  gently 
for  two  hours ;  turn  the  whole  into  dishes  which  have  been  dipped  in 
coid  water,  and  set  away  to  cool.  In  the  morning  cut  into  sl'ces  an 
inch  thick,  and  fry  brown,  in  pork  fat.     Serve  slices  of  pork  fat  with  it. 

QUICK  GRAHAM  MUSH. 

One  and  a  half  pints  sour  milk,  half  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  a  lit- 
tle salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  and  as 
much  Graham  flour  as  can  be  stirred  in  with  a  spoon ;  pour  in  a  well 
greased  pan,  put  in  oven  as  soon  as  mixed,  and  bake  two  hours. 

OATMEAL  BLANC  MANGE. 

A  delicious  bianc  mange  may  be  made  by  stirring  two  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  fine  oatmeal  into  a  little  cold  water,  and  then  stirring  in  a 
quart  of  boihng  milk ;  boil  a  few  minutes ;  flavor ;  turn  into  molds  when 
cold ;  eat  with  jelly  or  cream. 

RAISIN   MUSH. 

Boil  a  coffee-cup  of  raisins  in  a  quart  oA  water  until  perfectly  soft; 
add  water  enough  to  make  a  quart  or  more,  as  the  first  will  have  boiled 
away  a  good  deal ;  stir  some  of  the  oatmeal  into  cold  water  and  put  in 
the  boiling  water  ;  let  it  boil ;  skim  ;  add  a  bit  of  butter  and  more  oat- 
meal. When  done  it  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  cornmeal  mush. 
It  is  simple  and  healthful.     Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 


TOAST,  405 


OATMEAL  SAMP. 

Put  a  pint  of  oatmeal  to  soak  in  warm  water  a  few  hours  before 
cooking  it ;  just  water  enougli  to  cover  it,  then  pour  this  mixture  into 
boiling  water,  a  little  at  a  time,  with  a  good  pinch  of  salt,  and  let  it 
cook  slowly  the  same  as  a  cornmeal  hasty  pudding,  for  half  an  hour  or 
longer.  A  pudding  can  be  made  of  it  by  using  eggs,  milk,  sugar,  rais- 
ins and  cinnamon,  the  same  as  for  other  puddings. 

INDIAN  MEAL  MUSH. 

Turn  the  required  amount  of  water  into  the  kettle  and  let  it  boil. 
Throw  in  enough  salt  to  make  the  water  taste  salty,  and  for  each 
quart  of  water  allow  a  bit  of  saleratus  the  size  of  a  small  pea.  Now 
stir  in  slowly  and  briskly  the  sifted  meal,  and  do  not  allow  lumps  to 
form.  When  the  mush  is  the  consistency  of  batter,  allow  it  to  cook  for 
twenty  minutes  i  then  add  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  wheat  flour  for 
each  quart  of  water ;  stir  thoroughly  and  allow  it  to  cook  for  five  min- 
utes longer.  Now  remove  it  from  the  kettle,  and  if  there  is  more  than 
will  be  eaten  warm,  put  it  in  a  basin  about  two  inches  deep  and  save  for 
frying.  It  should  be  sliced  rather  thin  and  fried  in  a  small  quantity  of 
butter  or  meat  drippings  until  crisp  and  brown. 


TOAST. 


FRIED  MILK  TOAST. 


Dip  slices  of  bread  in  milk,  wetting  both  sides  ;  have  some  butter  in  a 
hot  frying  pan  and  fry  the  bread  a  delicate  brown.    A  nice  rdish  for  tea. 


PEMICAN  FOR  TOAST. 


One  half-pound  of  meat ;  boil  three  hours  ;  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  six  potatoes,  two  onions ;  season  well ;  boil  half  an  hour  longer, 
then  serve  on  toast  in  a  deep  dish  like  English  hash. 


HAM  TOAST. 


Mince  lean  ham  very  fine ;  to  half  a  pint  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
and  cream  or  soup  enough  to  soften ;  put  it  on  the  fire  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes,  stirring  all  the  time ;  serve  on  toasted  bread,  hot. 


406  TOAST. 


BREAKFAST  TOAST. 

Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  a  well-beaten  egg  in 
one-half  pint  of  milk.  In  this  mixture  dip  slices  of  bread  and  fry  them 
on  a  buttered  griddle  until  they  are  light  brown  on  each  side. 

MILK  TOAST, 

Cut  slices  of  bread  very  thin  ;  toast  quickly  to  a  light  brown  ;  butter 
and  pile  them  in  a  deep  dish  ;  then  cover  them  with  rich  boiling  milk. 
Let  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  and  serve.  A  little  salt  may  be  added  if 
necessary. 

CHEESE  AND  EGG  TOAST. 

Put  a  cup  of  cheese  crumbs  into  half  a  pint  of  rich  milk  ;  boil 
until  it  melts.  Have  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Season  the  milk  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter  to  taste.  Turn  in  the  eggs ;  stir  rapidly  for  a  few 
minutes ;  remove  from  the  fire  and  spread  it  over  some  hot  slices  of 
toasted  bread.  Cut  them  in  halves  and  quarters,  and  serve  on  a  hot 
platter. 

LEMON  TOAST.  I 

Take  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  beat  well,  and  add  three  cups  of  sweet 
milk ;  take  bread,  not  too  stale,  and  cut  into  slices ;  dip  them  into  the 
milk  and  eggs,  and  fry  in  butter  to  a  delicate  brown  ;  take  the  whites 
of  the  six  eggs  and  beat  to  a  froth ;  add  a  large  cup  white  sugar  and 
two  cups  of  boiling  water,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons  ;  serve  over  the 
toast  as  a  sauce,  and  you  will  have  a  delicious  supper  dish. 

CREAM  TOAST. 

Take  slices  of  stale  bread,  one  quart  of  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls 
butter,  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  salt,  and  three  tablespoonfuls 
flour.  Toast  the  bread  to  a  golden  brown ;  have  a  dish  half  full  of 
boiling  water  in  which  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  has  been  melted  ;  as 
each  slice  is  toasted,  dip  it  in  this  for  a  second  and  lay  in  the  deep,  heated 
dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Have  ready,  by  the  time  the  bread 
is  all  toasted,  the  milk  scalding  hot,  but  not  boiling ;  thicken  this  with 
the  flour ;  let  simmer  until  cooked ;  put  in  the  remaining  butter,  and 
when  this  is  melted,  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs ;  boil  up  once  and 
pour  over  the  toast,  lifting  the  slices  that  the  cream  may  run  between  ; 
cover  closely ;  set  in  the  oven  a  few  moments  before  sending  to  table. 


WAFFLES,  407 


WAFFLES. 

WAFFLES. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  one  large  cup  of  cold  rice,  or 
hominy,  a  little  salt,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  baking  powder  in  the 
proportion  of  three  teaspoonfuls  to  a  quart  of  flour, 

BREAD  WAFFLES. 

Crusts  and  pieces  can  be  put  in  a  pitcher  and  milk  poured  over  them  ; 
when  needed,  add  more  milk,  and  a  little  flour,  to  make  the  right  con- 
sistency ;  add  enough  soda  to  make  sweet ;  salt,  and  make  wafifles,  or 
pancakes. 

RISEN  WAFFLES. 

One  quart  milk,  one  heaping  quart  of  flour,  five  tablespoonfuls  yeast, 
two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  one  teaspoonful  salt ;  set  the 
mixture — without  the  eggs  and  butter — over  night  as  a  sponge;  add 
these  in  the  morning,  and  bake  in  waffle  irons. 

QUICK  WAFFLES. 

Three  cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  milk,  two  eggs,  half  teaspoonful  of 
cream  tartar,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  saltspoonful  of 
salt.  Sift  the  cream  tartar  and  salt  into  the  flour ;  dissolve  the  soda  in 
a  little  hot  water ;  beat  eggs  ;  put  in  the  flour  last  and  bake. 

DOWN  SOUTH  WAFFLES. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs  until  light,  then  add  a  cup  of 
water  and  one  of  buttermilk,  two  level  cups  of  sifted  flour  and  two  level 
tablespoonfuls  of  lard.  Stir  lightly,  as  beating  batter  after  the  flour  is 
added  makes  it  tough.  Then  put  in  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Have  the  irons  very  hot,  grease  them  with 
lard  and  put  only  enough  batter  in  to  have  them  one-third  full.  If  the 
waffles  do  not  come  out  of  the  irons  readily,  a  little  more  flour  may  be 
added  next  time. 

OLD  DUTCH  WAFFLES. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk,  one  quart  of  flour,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter,  one-half,  cent's  worth  of  yeast.  Mix  the  flour  and  milk 
gradually,  then  the  yeast.  Beat  the  eggs  separately,  and  let  all  rise 
from  four  to  six  hours.  Heat  the  waffle  iron  ;  grease  the  irons  with 
melted  lard.  When  the  waffles  are  baked  dip  in  melted  butter  and  hot 
water.     Have  sugar  and  cinnamon  beaten  to  eat  with  it. 


408  CAKE. 


CAKE. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  IT. 

As  good  a  test  of  flour  as  can  be  had  at  sight  is  to  take  up  a  handful 
and  squeeze  it  tight ;  if  good,  when  the  hand  is  unclasped  the  lines  on 
the  palm  of  the  hand  will  be  plainly  defined  on  the  ball  of  flour.  Good 
flour,  when  made  into  dough,  will  never  be  a  clear  blue-white,  but  of  a 
creamy,  yellowish  tinge,  and  will  not  stick  to  the  hand  while  kneading  it, 

The  same  rule  holds  good  of  all  groceries.  It  is  poor  economy  to  bujr 
cheap,  coarse  sugar.  A  barrel  of  pure,  clear,  granulated  sugar  will  last 
longer,  ind  therefore  in  the  end  be  cheaper,  than  any  of  the  moist  cheap 
browns,  or  coffee  sugars.  The  pulverized  sugar  that  is  considered  the 
only  kind  to  use  on  fruit  and  for  making  cake  is  tasteless,  disagreeable,, 
and  so  strongly  suggestive  of  adulteration  that  it  requires  courage  to 
attempt  to  use  it.  Cake  can  be  made  just  as  light  with  granulated  as 
with  pulverized  sugar,  and  far  more  palatable. 

In  getting  ready  to  make  cake  the  first  step  is  to  see  that  the  fire  in 
the  range  or  stove  is  in  good  order — burning  clearly,  and  enough  of  it 
to  last  till  the  cake  is  baked ;  adding  coal  or  wood  while  the  baking  is 
in  progress  is  very  injurious  to  whatever  is  cooking.  Shake  all  the 
ashes  out,  add  all  the  fuel  needed,  and  then  there  will  be  sufficient  time 
for  it  to  burn  clearly  while  the  cake  is  being  put  together.  Be  sure  that 
no  door  is  opened  or  window  raised,  that  is  in  such  direction  from  the 
stove  that  the  wind  or  sun  will  come  across  it.  No  oven  will  bake  well 
when  the  wind  or  sun  can  strike  upon  it ;  the  wind  will  cool  the  oven, 
and  the  sun  deaden  the  coal  and  make  it  look  white. 

A  marble  slab  is  excellent,  particularly  for  pastry,  and  will  never  grow 
rough,  like  wood,  by  use.  But,  next  to  that,  a  large  smooth  molding- 
board  is  desirable,  even  when  nothing  is  to  be  molded  or  rolled  out.  It 
helps  to  keep  all  flour,  sugar,  etc.,  from  the  floor  and  table  while  cook- 
ing, and  is  easily  taken  to  the  sink  for  cleaning,  with  all  the  soiled  dishes 
upon  it,  and  that  also  saves  steps  and  time. 

For  cake  let  the  flour  dry  near  the  fire  while  the  other  ingredients  are 
being  collected.  Then  sift  it,  and  if  cream  of  tartar  or  baking  powder 
is  desired,  sift  that  with  the  flour.  Roll  the  sugar  to  avoid  lumps 
(granulated  sugar  never  lumps),  and  then  weigh  or  measure  the  desired 
quantity,  putting  it  in  a  clean  dish  or  bowl  on  the  table.  For  cake  or 
pastry,  the  butter  should  be  washed  in  ice-cold  water  the  night  before 
using,  squeezed  hard  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  put  into  ice-water,  and  set  on 
ice  till  needed.  Raisins  should  also  be  stoned  the  night  before ;  and 
currants  washed,  picked  over,  rubbed  dry  in  a  clean  cloth,  then  spread 
on  a  broad  dish  or  platter  till  needed.     The  citron,  when  required,  should 


HO  W  TO  MAKE  IT,  v  409 

be  cut  in  very  thin  slices,  all  covered  up  closely,  and  set  on  the  ice.  By 
attending  to  these  preliminaries  the  evening  before  making  cake,  the 
morning  work  is  much  expedited. 

When  ready  for  immediate  work,  gather  all  these  things  compactly 
on  the  table,  butter  the  pans,  or  line  with  white  paper  well  buttered. 
Use  butter,  not  lard  or  drippings,  for  this,  or  the  under  crust  will  taste 
unpleasantly.  Cake  is  not  as  likely  to  burn  at  the  bottom  when  the 
pans  are  lined  with  buttered  paper.  Keep  clean  brown  paper  to  cover 
the  top,  if  there  is  any  danger  of  scorching.  The  cheap  white  unglazed 
paper  on  which  newspapers  are  printed  answers  every  purpose  for  lining 
cake  pans,  is  more  economical  than  letter  paper,  and  safer,  as  writing 
paper  has  often  some  poisonous  substance  like  arsenic  employed  in 
finishing  it. 

Eggs  used  for  cake  should  be  put  into  cold  water  in  summer  while 
the  preliminary  work  is  going  on.  Then  break  each  one  in  a  cup  sepa- 
rately to  be  sure  it  is  good.  If  it  proves  so,  turn  it  into  the  bowl  they 
are  to  be  beaten  in,  break  the  next  into  the  cup,  and  so  on  till  all  are 
broken.  If  broken,  without  this  precaution,  into  the  bowl  they  are  to 
be  beaten  in,  there  is  the  risk  of  breaking  one  poor  one  and  so  ruining 
the  whole.     Have  nutmegs  grated  and  allspice  measured  on  hand. 

First  beat  butter  and  sugar  together  till  white  and  creamy ;  then  the 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  always,  for  the  whites  require 
much  longer  time  to  be  beaten  perfectly.  Strain  the  yolks  after  beating, 
and  add  to  them  the  well-beaten  sugar  and  butter.  Next  add  the  spices. 
Stir  the  flour  gradually  before  using  the  sweet  or  sour  milk  needed. 
If  soda  or  cream  tartar  are  to  be  used,  the  latter  should  be  sifted  with 
the  flour  (also,  as  above  stated,  when  only  baking  powder  is  called  for). 
Dissolve  soda  in  cool  water  or  milk,  never  in  anything  hot,  as  heat 
destroys  the  best  part  of  it.  Put  in  the  soda  after  the  milk  has  been 
added  and  well  beaten  with  all  the  other  ingredients. 

If  prepared  flour  is  used,  neither  soda  nor  cream  of  tartar  can  be 
employed.  The  currants,  citrons  or  raisins  must  be  well  floured,  but 
use  for  this  the  flour  measured  out  for  the  cake,  else  the  cake  will  be 
too  stiff.  Beat  up  the  latter  very  light  before  adding  the  fruit,  as  it 
should  be  beaten  gently  and  not  long  after  that  is  added.  The  whites, 
beaten  very  stiff,  are  to  be  put  in  the  last  thing.  After  that  very  little 
beating  is  allowed — only  what  is  necessary  to  incorporate  the  fruit  and 
whites  of  eggs  thoroughly  with  all  the  other  ingredients.  When  beating 
the  whites  do  not  stop,  after  once  having  begun,  till  they  are  very  stiff, 
else  they  will  "go  back,"  and  can  never  be  brought  up  light  again. 

In  making  raised  cake  all  fruit  must  be  well  rolled  in  flour  left  out 
for  that  purpose,  and  not  be  added  to  the  cake  till  just  ready  to  put  into 
the  oven.  It  must  not  then  be  beaten  in,  but  spread  over  the  top  lightly 
and  pressed  in  a  little  way,  else  the  fruit  will  all  sink  to  the  bottom  and 
be  worthless. 


410  CAKE. 

Practice  and  watchfulness  soon  teach  one  who  is  in  earnest  to  judge 
correctly  when  cake,  bread  or  pies  are  done.  If  ever  so  properly  pre- 
pared, they  will  be  heavy  if  taken  from  the  oven  before  thoroughly 
baked.  If  obliged  to  turn  pans  round  in  the  oven,  do  not  move  them 
roughly,  but  with  great  gentleness,  and  if  possible  never  take  bread, 
cake,  or  biscuit  out  of  the  oven  to  turn  it.  The  air  striking  it  will  injure 
it  greatly. 

If  sour  milk  or  buttermilk  is  used  in  making  cake,  it  must  be  placed 
in  the  oven  as  soon  as  put  together,  unless,  like  hard  gingerbread  or 
cookies,  it  needs  to  be  rolled  out  or  molded.  In  that  case  it  is  not 
injured  if  it  stands  some  hours. 

WEDDING  CAKE  ORNAMENTS. 

Take  one  pound  of  sugar  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs ;  beat  the  eggs 
till  almost  stiff,  and  add  half  the  sugar  with  one  half  teaspoonful  of 
acetic  acid ;  when  beaten  thoroughly  add  the  rest  of  the  sugar  and 
another  one-half  teaspoonful  of  acid  with  some  flavoring.  Beat  it  till 
smooth,  and  after  rubbing  the  cake  with  flour  in  order  to  remove  all 
crumbs,  put  a  coat  of  icing  on  the  cake  and  set  in  the  sun  to  dry. 

Fill  the  tubes  with  icing  and  put  a  row  of  dots  at  equal  distances 
round  the  top  edges ;  allow  these  to  dry  and  take  a  smaller  tube  and 
go  from  one  dot  to  the  other  till  all  have  been  touched ;  when  dry  put 
another  row  of  dots,  then  the  rail.  It  can  be  built  as  high  as  desired 
jn  this  way.  The  top  can  be  ornamented  by  going  across,  then  let 
another  row  of  dots  intersect  it  at  right  angles  and  divide  those  again, 
build  as  high  as  the  railing  of  the  circumference.  Dot  the  side  in  points 
reaching  from  top  to  bottom,  or  scallops,  and  build  as  on  the  top. 

Take  a  piece  of  tissue  paper  one  and  a  half  inches  larger  than  the 
cake  stand,  and  pink  and  perforate  the  edge  ;  this  can  be  done  with  the 
pinking  iron  and  a  saddler's  punch.  Place  the  cake  on  and  make  an 
edge  of  lace  on  the  bottom  of  the  cake  by  allowing  the  funnel  to  touch 
the  cake  at  regular  distances ;  when  dry  let  the  funnel  touch  between 
those  spaces.  It  can  be  made  to  extend  an  inch  or  two  so  none  of  the 
space  between  the  cake  and  the  paper  will  show.  A  wet  cloth  spread 
over  the  bowl  of  icing  will^  keep  it  from  drying.  If  too  stiff  beat  the 
white  of  another  ^^^  and  put  in  a  small  quantity.  If  too  thin  add  more 
sugar. 

A  beautiful  way  to  ornament  cake  is  to  cut  leaves  and  petals  of 
flowers  of  Swiss  or  mosquito  bar.  Run  a  small  wire  through  the  center 
of  each  leaf  and  petal,  and  use  the  smallest  funnel  to  vein  and  scollop 
the  leaves,  and  pass  through  the  middle  of  each  petal  to  hide  the  wire 
and  around  the  edge  also ;  then  form  your  flowers  and  fasten  to  the 
cake  with  icing.     Stamens  can  be  made  of  thread  dipped  in  icing. 

Grapes  can  be  formed  of  bits  of  cotton.     Tie  in  bunches  and  pour 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  FROSTING.  411 

the  icing  over  them,  and  when  dry  place  grape  leaves  made  of  Swiss  as 
described  above,  on  the  top  of  the  cake,  and  la}^  the  grapes  over  them. 
One  or  two  leaves  can  be  placed  face  down  at  the  end  of  the  bunches 
and  turned  back  to  hide  where  they  are  fastened.  Tendrils  can  be  made 
with  icing  from  the  smallest  tube. 

A  bower  can  be  made  with  pieces  of  Swiss  about  three  by  six  inches. 
Sew  bonnet  wire  around,  leaving  the  ends  of  it  to  project  about  an 
inch,  so  that  it  can  be  stuck  in  the  cake.  Four  of  these,  latticed  with 
icing  and  joined  at  the  top  with  pieces  of  wire,  form  the  bower.  The 
wire  must  be  covered  with  dots  and  an  ornament  must  be  placed  on  the 
top.  A  doll,  dressed  as  a  bride,  can  be  fastened  in  the  center  of  the 
bower,  facing  one  of  the  openings.  A  wreath  of  lilies  and  leaves  can 
be  placed  just  below  the  bower. 

The  cake  thus  ornamented  should  be  an  octagon  shape  with  a  smaller 
one  on  top.  The  lilies  hide  where  they  join ;  the  opposite  sides  can 
have  the  initials  of  the  bride  and  groom  ;  the  next  two  roses  and  buds  ? 
the  next  two  wheat ;  the  last  two  hearts.  The  corners  embellished  with 
dots  and  circles;  the  bottom  a  heavy  edge  and  lace  work. 

Tubes  can  be  purchased  that  fit  in  the  paper  funnels  that  aid  one 
very  much.  ^ 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  FROSTING. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  flat  dish  and  beat  with  a  fork.  Beat  until  stiff 
and  add  the  sugar  and  flavoring  last,  or  add  the  sugar  before  the  eggs 
are  beaten  and  beat  all  together.  The  sugar,  in  the  proportion  of  ten 
heaping  spoonfuls'  pulverized  sugar  to  the  white  of  one  egg,  is  a  good 
proportion.  Be  sure  that  all  is  thoroughly  beaten  before  taking  the  cake 
from  the  oven.  If  the  cake  is  rough  or  brown  when  baked,  dust  on  a 
little  flour,  rub  off  all  loose  particles  with  a  cloth,  put  on  the  frosting  and 
rub  smoothly  down  with  a  knife.  Let  stand  a  moment  in  the  oven  or  hot 
sun  to  "set,"  but  do  not  let  it  brown.  If  the  eggs  do  not  heat  quickly 
put  in  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  if  the  frosting  is  too  stiff  to  spread  nicely,  dip 
the  knife  in  cold  water.  If  the  flavor  is  acid,  put  in  a  little  more  sugar 
than  for  other  flavorings.  The  cake  can  be  handled  and  the  frosting 
put  on  more  evenly  if  the  cake  is  placed  on  an  inverted  milk-pan,  and 
the  frosting  may  then  be  spread  on  the  sides,  where  it  will  adhere  as 
firmly  as  glass.  If  boiled  frosting  is  used  (and  some  prefer  it),  to  one 
cup  of  sugar  add  the  white  of  one  Qgg,  cover  the  sugar  with  water  and 
let  it  boil  without  stirring  till  it  ropes ;  have  the  egg  beaten,  and  when 
the  sugar  has  boiled  sufficiently  stir  into  the  egg  and  continue  stirring 
till  cool.  If  boiled  too  much  the  frosting  is  inclined  to  dry  before  cool- 
ing; this  can  be  remedied  by  adding  a  drop  or  two  of  hot  water. 

Any  ornaments,  as  raisins,  nuts  or  candies,  should  be  put  on  while 
the  icing  is  moist. 


412  cake: 


PINK  COLORING  FOR  CAKE. 

One  tablespoonful  of  pulverized  cochineal,  one  tablespoonful  each  of 
alum,  soda  and  cream  of  tartar;  mix  thoroughly  with  one  glass  or  half 
pint  of  boiling  water ;  strain  and  bottle  till  ready  for  use. 

TINTED   FROSTING. 

The  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  one-half  cup  of  pulverized  sugar.  Do 
not  beat  the  eggs  separate  from  the  sugar ;  flavor  with  lemon  ;  splendid 
on  white  cake.  • 

CONFECTIONERS'   ICING. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  eight  large  spoonfuls  of  white  sugar; 
place  in  a  small  can  and  cook  over  the  boiling  tea-kettle  for  five  minutes, 
stirring  constantly ;  spread  it  on  the  cake  with  a  knife,  and  as  quickly 
as  possible,  as  it  hardens  immediately. 
J.' 

ALMOND   FROSTING. 

Two  cups  of  sugar ;  pour  over  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water,  cook 
until  ropy  ;  beat  whites  of  two  eggs,  stir  into  the  sugar  until  cold  (it 
requires  a  good  deal  of  stirring)  ;  add  flavoring  (bitter  almonds  is  best), 
and  one  and  a  half  cups  sweet  almonds  blanched. 

ORNAMENTAL  FROSTING. 

M^ke  frosting  just  thick  enough  to  run  well,  then  place  it  in  a  small- 
sized  funnel  made  of  letter  paper,  first  cutting  off  the  small  end  to 
allow  the  frosting  to  pass  through  freely,  and  ornament  to  your  taste. 
The  cake  should  be  cold  and  made  smooth  and  floured  to  prevent  the 
frosting  from  sliding  off. 

LEMON  CAKE  ICING. 

One  cup  of  white  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  ;  put  these  in  a 
dish  on  the  stove  and  heat  slowly  until  boiHng  hot ;  beat  the  white  of 
an  ^%%  to  a  stiff  foam  and  stir  into  the  sugar ;  remove  from  the  stove 
and  stir  occasionally  until  nearly  cool,  then  flavor  with  lemon  or  rose- 
water  and  spread  on  the  cake. 

ISINGLASS  FROSTING. 

Take  one  sheet  of  isinglass,  pour  about  half  a  cupful  of  boiling  water 
on  it  and  stand  it  in  a  warm  place  to  dissolve  slowly.  When  there  is 
no  scum  on  top  add  to  it  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  starch.  Let  the  cakes  be  cold ;  pour  the  frosting  over, 
smooth  it  down  as  little  as  possible  and  set  it  away  in  a  cool  place  to 
get  hard.  This  is  a  nice  and  much  easier  way  than  to  make  frosting 
of  sugar  and  beaten  eggs. 


CAKE  MAKING,  413 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING. 

Six  even  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate,  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
powdered  sugar,  whites  of  three  eggs ;  beat  the  whites  but  very  little 
(not  until  they  become  white)  ;  add  the  chocolate  and  stir  in  the  mix- 
ture ;  then  pour  in  the  sugar  gradually,  beating  to  mix  it  well. 

GOLD    FROSTING. 

The  yolk  of  one  t%%  to  nine  heaping  teaspoonfiils  of  pulverized  sugar, 
and  flavor  with  vanilla.     Use  the  same  day  it  is  made. 

PORK  CAKE. 

Two  pounds  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  one  pound  pork  fat, 
two  and  one-half  cups  molasses,  the  same  quantity  of  sugar,  two  and  a 
half  cups  of  boiling  water,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  soda,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  fine  salt, 

FRENCH   CAKE. 

One  cup  and  a  half  of  butter,  four  cups  flour,  three  cups  sugar,  four 
eggs — always  beat  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  separately — juice  of  half  a 
lemon  and  rind  of  whole  one ;  just  before  putting  in  oven  mix  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  and  the  lemon  with  one  cup  of  sour  milk. 

CLOVE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  flour,  half-cup  molasses,  one  half-cup  butter,  one-half  cup 
milk,  two  eggs,  two  cups  of  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  half-tea- 
spoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  half  a  nutmeg. 

CHESS  CAKE. 

Yolks  of  ten  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of 
sweet  milk ;  beat  all  together  very  lightly ;  flavor  with  lemon  extract 
and  bake  in  rich  crust,  same  as  pies. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

One  heaping  coffee  cup  sugar,  one-half  teacup  butter,  one  and  one- 
half  teacups  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
nutmeg,  one  cup  fruit,  one  teaspoonful  soda.  Stir  in  flour  until  it  will 
just  drop  from  the  spoon. 

RAISIN  CAKE. 

One  cup  white  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  stirred 
together ;  eight  tablespoonfuls  sweet  milk,  one  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon- 
ful baking  powder ;  flavor  with  lemon ;  stir  in  last  the  beaten  whites  of 


414  CAKE, 

four  eggs ;  bake  in  layers.  For  filling,  add  a  little  water  to  one  cup  of 
white  sugar ;  put  it  on  the  stove  to  boil ;  chop  one  cup  of  raisins  and 
beat  the  white  of  one  ^%g ;  take  the  sugar  off  and  stir  the  ^g%  and  rai- 
sins in. 

WHORTLEBERRY  CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  cups  flour,  five  eggs,  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  nutmeg  and  the  same  of  cinnamon,  one  quart  ripe,  fresh  whortle- 
berries thickly  dredged  with  flour ;  stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream ; 
add  beaten  yolks,  then  milk,  flour,  spice,  the  whites  of  eggs  whipped 
stiff,  and  the  soda ;  lastly,  stir  in  the  berries,  being  careful  not  to  bruise 
them ;  bake  in  a  loaf,  in  a  moderate,  steady  oven,  until  a  straw  comes 
out  clean  from  thickest  part. 

PERFECTION  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar  (pulverized),  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  one  gill  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder  and  eight  eggs ;  sift  flour  and  powder  together  ;  cream  the  but- 
ter and  sugar  together  until  light  as  a  feather ;  beat  the  eggs  separately, 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  the  yolks  until  rich  and  thick  ;  add  yolks 
to  butter  and  sugar,  then  flour,  and,  lastly,  the  whites  of  the  eggs ;  beat 
lightly  until  all  are  well  mixed,  and  bake  in  ordinary  cake  tins  in  a  very 
slow  oven.     For  flavoring  either  vanilla  or  lemon  may  be  used. 

DRIED  APPLE  CAKE. 

Two  teacups  dried  apples,  soaked  over  night  and  chopped  fine; 
stew  them  in  two  cups  of  molasses  until  well  cooked.  Then  take  two 
eggs,  one  cup  butter,  one  of  sour  cream,  one  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  soda ;  stir  some  flour  with  the  first  before  mixing  with 
the  rest ;  spices  to  taste  ;  the  more  the  better. 

NUT  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three  cups  fliour, 
one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der, one  cup  of  hickory  nuts  (chopped),  one  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

ICE  CREAM  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  corn 
starch,  two  cups  flour,  the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  large  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  which  must  be  mixed  with  the  flour.  Stir  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream,  adding  the  corn  starch  and  flour  gradually  while  stir- 
ring. Bake  in  layers.  The  icing  is  made  as  follows  :  The  whites  of 
four  eggs  beaten  very  light,  ^our   cups  sugar,  one^half  pint  of  boiling 


CAKE  MAKING,  416 

water  poured  over  the  sugar  and  boiled  until  clear  and  thick;  pour 
slowly  over  the  eggs,  stirring  .well.  Dissolve  citric  acid  and  j^ut  one 
teaspoonful  into  the  icing,  or  flavor  with  almond  or  vanilla  spread 
between  the  layers  or  on  top  after  it  is  well  beaten,  until  cold.  Add  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eight  eggs  the  last  thing  before  putting  into  the 
pans. 

OATMEAL  GINGERBREAD. 

One  pound  flour,  one-fourth  pound  oatmeal,  one-fourth  pound  butter, 
one-fourth  pound  sugar,  one-half  ounce  ginger.  Rub  the  butter  and 
sugar  into  the  flour  ;  one  pound  of  treacle  will  make  it  up  ;  caraway 
seed  and  candied  peel  are  sometimes  added. 

DOLLY  VARDEN  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  three  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Flavor  with  lemon.  Bake  one-half  of 
this  in  two  pans.  To  the  remainder  add  one  tablespoonful  of  molasses, 
one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  one-half  cup  of  currants,  piece  of  citron 
chopped  fine,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Bake 
in  two  pans  and  put  in  sheets  alternately  with  a  little  jelly  or  white  of 
an  ^^^  beaten  to  a  froth. 

RIBBON  CAKE. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sweet  milk,  tea- 
spoonful cream  tartar,  half  teaspoonful  soda,  four  cups  flour,  four  eggs. 
Reserve  a  third  of  this  mixture,  and  bake  the  rest  in  two  loaves  of  the 
same  size,  Add  to  the  third  reserved  one  cup  raisins,  one-quarter 
pound  citron,  a  cup  of  currants,  two  tablespoonfuls  molasses,  teaspoon- 
ful each  of  all  kinds  of  spice  ;  bake  in  a  tin  the  same  size  as  other 
loaves ;  put  the  three  loaves  together  with  a  little  icing  or  currant  jelly, 
placing  the  fruit  loaf  in  the  middle  ;  frost  the  top  and  sides. 

GERMAN  COFFEE  CAKE. 

Get  ready  some  flour,  with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda  stirred  in  ; 
then  one  cup  of  cold  coffee,  one  cup  molasses,  one  of  sugar,  one  of  sour 
milk,  one  of  shortening  (meat-frying  preferred),  one  tablespoonful  of 
ground  coffee,  one  of  ground  spices ;  stir  into  the  flour  to  a  good  stiff 
batter,  add  one  cup  English  currants,  washed,  rubbed  dry,  and  a  Uttle 
flour  rubbed  over  them  that  they  may  not  cause  the  cake  to  settle ;  stir 
all  together  w^ell  and  bake  slowly. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  fifteen  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  good  yeast  powder.     First 


410  CAKE. 

beat  half  your  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  sugar,  cream  the  butter  well 
and  mix  in  your  flour ;  put  all  together,  beat  well  and  add  the  rest  of 
the  eggs  beaten  stiff,  the  last  thing. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
one  and  a  half  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  four  eggs  (the  whites  only). 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

Bake  two  sponge  cakes  and  let  them  cool.  Take  two  and  a  half  cups 
of  milk,  one  ^gg,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour ;  boil 
until  it  thickens ;  flavor  with  very  strong  coffee ;  place  between  the 
cakes,  and  frost  the  top. 

GINGERBREAD   LOAF. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  of  molasses,  one  of  sugar,  half  of  cold  water, 
one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  of  soda 
dissolved  in  boiling  water ;  melt  the  butter,  slightly  warm  the  molasses, 
spice  and  sugar,  and  heat  together  ten  minutes  ;  then  put  in  the  water, 
soda  and  flour ;  stir  very  hard  and  bake  in  three  loaves.  Brush  them 
over  with  syrup  while  hot  and  eat  fresh. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  Orleans  molasses,  half  cup  brown  sugar,  half 
cup  butter,  half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  teaspoonful  of  soda,  teaspoonful  of 
allspice,  half  teaspoonful  of  ginger ;  mix  all  thoroughly  together,  and 
add  three  cups  of  sifted  flour ;  bake  in  shallow  pans. 

GINGER  DROP  CAKES. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  lard,  one  of  baking  molasses,  one  of  brown 
sugar,  one  large  tablespoonful  ginger,  one  tablespoonful  soda  dissolved 
in  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  five  cups  unsifted  flour ;  drop  tablespoon- 
fuls of  this  mixture  into  a  slightly  greased  dripping-pan  about  three 
inches  apart. 

GINGER  SPICE  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder,  oile  of  salt ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

MOLASSES  CAKE. 

One  cup  each  of  butter,  sugar,  sour  milk  and  molasses,  five  cup5  of- 
flour,  two  eggs,  on-e  tablespoonful  of  soda  and  one  of  ginger. 


CAKE  MAKING.  417 

SCOTCH  CAKE. 

Stir  to  a  cream  a  pound  of  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter ; 
add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon  :  separate  the  whites  and  yolks 
of  nine  eggs  and  beat  each  to  a  froth  ;  stir  into  the  cake  and  add  a  pound 
of  sifted  fiour ;  stir  fifteen  minutes,  and  just  before  putting  into  cake 
pans,  which  must  be  lined  with  buttered  paper,  add  a  pound  of  seeded 
raisins  ;  spice  to  suit  the  taste.     Bake  one  hour. 

WHITE  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Whites  of  nine  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  one  and  a  half  cups  white 
sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar  sifted,  with  one  cup  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  lemon  (no  soda).  Take  one-half  of  cake  mixture  and 
color  with  cochineal  to  a  bright  scarlet ;  then  drop  one  spoon  of  white 
then  one  of  red,  one  upon  the  other.    It  makes  a  beautiful  marbled  cake 

DUTCH  PEPPER  CAKE. 

One  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  water,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  three  cups  fiour  and  one  ^%%t 
one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon. 

NUT  CAKE. 

Whites  of  five  eggs,  sugar  two  cups,  butter  one  cup,  sweet  milk  one 
cup,  flour  three  cups,  baking  powder  three  teaspoonfuls,  one  cup  of 
hickory  nuts  and  one  cup  of  black  walnut  meats  chopped  fine. 

MOTHER'S  TEA  CAKE. 

Break  an  ^%g  in  a  teacup,  fill  with  sugar,  beat  thoroughly  together, 
add  one  cup  thick,  sour  cream,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  a  little  salt,  half  a 
nutmeg  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

SNOW  FLAKE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  pulverized  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one 
cup  corn  starch,  two  cups  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  pow- 
der, extract  of  lemon. 

ANGELS'  FOOD. 

One-half  tumbler  of  granulated  sugar,  one  tumbler  of  sifted  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla ;  sift  the  flour 
four  times,  then  add  the  cream  of  tartar  and  sift  again,  but  have  the 
right  measure  before  adding  the  cream  of  tartar ;  sift  sugar  and  meas- 
ure; beat  the  whites  of  eleven  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  the  sugar 
lightly,  a  little  at  a  time,  then  the  flour  the  same  way,  then  the  vanilla; 
27 


418  CAKE. 

do  not  stop  beating  until  you  put  in  the  pan  to  bake.  Bake  forty  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven,  not  opening  the  doors  for  the  first  fifteen 
minutes ;  try,  and  if  not  done,  let  stand  a  few  moments  longer.  The 
tumbler  must  hold  two  and  one-quarter  gills. 

Icing— ^\\\1ts  of  two  eggs,  two  teacups  of  sugar ;  boil  the  sugar 
with  just  enough  water  to  moisten  it ;  pour  boiling  hot,  very  slowly  over 
the  beaten  eggs  ;  dissolve  a  small  half  teaspoonful  of  citric  acid  in  a 
tablespoonf  ul  of  water  and  put  in  enough  of  it  to  make  a  pleasant  flavor. 

BUTTERNUT  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  of  butter,  two  of  flour,  three- 
fourths  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  meats  of  nuts,  whites  of .  four  eggs, 
two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

TEA  CAKE. 

Two-thirds  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  walnut,  the  yolk  of  one  ^gg,  one- 
half  teacup  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one  cup 
sifted  flour;  use  the  white  for  frosting  for  the  top. 

CAKE  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

One  cup  butter,  three  cups  sugar,  one  pint  sour  milk  or  cream,  three 
cups  flour,  one  pound  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  saleratus ;  spice  to  taste. 

MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

One  pound  each  of  sugar  and  flour,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  of  cream  of  tartar ; 
lemon  flavoring. 

LUNCHEON  CAKE. 

Take  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  dough,  one-half  pound  currants,  one- 
half  ounce  caraway  seeds,  six  ounces  sugar,  two  or  three  eggs  and  one- 
half  pound  clarified  drippings  of  butter. 

APPLE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Soak  two  cups  dried  apples  over  night ;  in  the  morning  drain  and 
chop  fine  in  chopping  bowl ;  add  one  cup  molasses  and  let  it  boil  slowly 
on  back  of  stove  three  or  four  hours,  until  the  molasses  has  thickened ; 
let  it  cool ;  add  one  and  a  half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  butter, 
half  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  cinna- 
mon, one  teaspoonful  soda,  three  eggs,  three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour ; 
bake  in  two  square  tins  or  one  large  five-quart  basin ;  if  baked  in  the 
latter  bake  slowly  two  and  a  half  hours.     This  will  keep  six  months. 


CAKE  MAKING.  419 

NEW  YEAR'S  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  almonds,  one  pound 
of  sugar,  three-quarter  pounds  of  butter,  six  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  half  a  teacupful  of  milk. 
Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  then  the 
milk  in  which  dissolve  the  soda;  put  the  cream  tartar  in  the  flour  and 
mix  well ;  beat  this  all  well  and  then  stir  in  the  blanched  almonds ;  line 
a  cake  tin  with  well  buttered  paper ;  bake  in  a  steady  oven. 

CIDER  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  butter,  one  ^%%  well  beaten,  one  large 
cup  of  cider,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  flour  sufficient  to  make  it  as  thick 
as  pound  cake.     One  cup  of  raisins  can  be  added  if  desired. 

WASHINGTON  CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of 
milk,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  ; 
same  quantity  of  cream  of  tartar.     This  will  make  three  cakes. 

•      LOAF  SEED  CAKE. 

Take  one  loaf  of  dough,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  half  cup  of  butter 
or  drippings,  half  ounce  of  caraway  seeds,  or  a  quarter  pound  of  cur- 
rants, a  little  spice,  two  eggs ;  mix  thoroughly  with  the  hands  and  set 
to  rise.     Do  not  bake  until  very  light ;  bake  in  a  deep  tin. 

GRAHAM  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk  (sour),  one-half  cup  butter,  three  and 
one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one-half  a  nutmeg. 

CITRON  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  three  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  of  cream  tartar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Make  the  cake  as  above,  put  in  the  pan,  cut  the  citron  thin  and  put  in 
the  cake  endways ;  push  down  until  the  batter  covers  the  citron,  and 
this  will  prevent  the  citron  from  falling  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 

ENGLISH  BANBURY  CAKES. 

Roll  out  the  paste  about  half  an  inch  thick  and  cut  it  into  pieces ; 
then  roll  again  till  each  piece  becomes  twice  the  size  ;  put  some  Banbury 
meat  in  the  middle  of  one  side ;  fold  the  other  over  it  and  finish  it  up 
into  somewhat  of  an  oval  shape  ;  flatten  it  with  your  hand  at  the  top, 
letting  the  seam  be  quite  at  the  bottom ;  rub  the  tops  over  with  the 


420  '        CAKE. 

white  of  an  ^gg,  laid  on  with  a  brush,  and  dust  loaf  sugar  over  them ; 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  The  meat  for  this  cake  is  made  thus :  Beat 
up  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  until  it  becomes  in  a  state  of  cream ; 
then  mix  with  it  half  a  pound  of  candied  orange  and  lemon  peel  cut 
fine,  one  pound  of  currants,  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  ground  cinnamon 
and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  allspice ;  mix  all  well  together,  and  keep 
in  a  jar  until  wanted  for  use. 

SNOW  CAKE. 

The  whites  of  six  eggs,  one  cup  of  fine  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  sifted 
flour,  one  teaspoon ful  of  cream  tartar.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
then  add  the  sugar;  beat  them  well  together,  then  add  part  of  the  flour. 
Mix  cream  tartar  to  the  rest  of  the  flour  and  beat  all  well  together. 
Add  the  flavoring  last.     Bake  in  rather  a  quick  oven. 

POOR  MAN'S  CAKE. 

Take  three  cups  bread  sponge ;  when  light,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup 
butter,  two  eggs ;  stir  up  well ;  put  in  spice  to  taste,  and  fruit  if  pre- 
ferred;  set  it  down  to  rise;  when  light  bake  in  brisk  oven.  Yeast 
dough,  after  it  rises  the  second  time,  is  best.     Do  not  use  any  flour. 

HONEY  CAKES. 

Three  and  one-half  pounds  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of 
honey,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  nutmeg, 
one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  roll  thin  and  cut 
in  small  cakes;  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  cover  tight  and  let  stand  till 
moist.  They  will  keep  a  long  time.  Soft  ginger  cake  can  be  made 
with  honey  instead  of  molasses,  except  that  you  use  more  honey 
and  leave  out  the  eggs. 

OATMEAL  CAKE. 

Equal  parts  fine  oatmeal  and  water;  mix,  pour  into  a  pan  about  one- 
third  of  an  inch  deep ;  bake  half  an  hour,  or  until  crisp  and  slightly 
brown  ;  or  make  half  an  inch  thick  and  bake  like  johnny  cake.  If  the 
oven  is  not  hot  enough,  pour  it  into  the  frying  pan,  cover  tight,  bake  on 
top  of  stove,  dishing  when  well  browned  on  the  bottom.  It  is  a  splendid 
dish  for  an  early  breakfast,  late  supper,  or  when  you  are  in  a  hurry.  It 
is  not  good  cold ;  if  any  is  left,  warm  it  over.  Eaten  with  sweet  cream, 
fresh  butter,  or  stewed  fruit,  it  is  excellent. 

BRIDE'S  WEDDING  CAKE. 

Four  pounds  of  flour,  three  pounds  of  butter,  three  pounds  of  sugar, 
four  pounds  of  currants,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  twenty-four  eggs,  half  a 
pint    of   brandy,    one   ounce    of    mace    and    three    nutmegs.      A    little 


CAKE  MAKING,  421 

molasses  makes  it  dark-colored,  which  is  desirable.  Half  a  pound  of 
citron  improves  it,  but  is  not  necessary.  To  be  baked  two  hours  and 
a  half  or  three  hours.  After  the  oven  is  cleared  it  is  well  to  shut  the  door 
for  eight  or  ten  minutes,  to  let  the  violence  of  the  heat  subside,  before 
bread  or  cake  is  put  in. 

GROOM'S  CAKE. 

Ten  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  of  white  sugar, 
one  of  "flour,  two  of  almonds  blanched  and  chopped  fine,  one  of  seeded 
raisins,  half  pound  of  citron  shaved  fine ;  beat  butter  to  a  cream,  add 
sugar  gradually,  then  the  well  beaten  yolks  ;  stir  all  till  very  light,  and 
add  the  chopped  almonds  ;  beat  the  whites  stiff  and  add  gently  with  the 
flour;  take  a  little  more  flour  and  sprinkle  over  the  raisins  and  citron, 
then  put  in  the  cake-pan,  first  a  layer  of  raisins  and  citron,  then  cake, 
and  so  on  until  all  is  used,  finishing  off  with  a  layer  of  cake.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  two  hours. 


ICING  FOR  WEDDING  CAKE. 

Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  an  entire  froth,  and  to  each  ^^g  add 
five  teaspoonfuls  of  sifted  loaf  sugar,  gradually ;  beat  it  a  great  while. 
You  can  put  it  on  when  your  cake  is  hot,  or  a  little  cold,  as  is  most  con- 
venient. It  will  dry  in  a  warm  room,  a  short  distance  from  a  gentle 
fire,  or  in  a  warm  oven,  but  do  not  let  it  brown. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

One-half  pint  cold  water,  in  which  rub  smooth  six  ounces  of  flour ; 
put  it  into  a  spider  with  four  ounces  of  butter  and  stir  it  continually  over 
a  fire,  not  too  hot,  till  it  is  thoroughly  cooked.  It  will  resemble  a  lump 
of  putty  and  cleave  off  the  spider  like  a  pancake.  Cool  this  lump  and 
add  four  eggs  ;  beat  well  and  then  drop  on  a  buttered  tin  in  neat,  com- 
pact little  "  dabs,"  far  enough  apart  not  to  touch  when  they  rise.  Have 
the  oven  about  as  hot  as  for  cookies,  and  in  turning  them  lift  up  the  tin. 
If  you  shove  them  before  they  are  set  you  w^ill  have  pancakes.  They 
should  be  hollow  balls.  Bake  them  long  enough  so  they  will  not  fall 
when  removed  and  cool  them  on  brown  paper  as  quickly  as  possible,  so 
they  will  not  sweat. 

To  Fill  Them — take  one- half  pint  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  one-fourth 
cup  flour  or  corn  starch  wet  smoothly,  one  cup  sugar,  lemon  or  vanilla 
flavor  ;  cook  it  in  a  tin  pail  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water ;  stir  it  so  it  will  be 
smooih.  When  both  are  cold  open  the  puff  with  a  sharp  knife,  just  a 
little  slit  on  the  side,  and  fill  in  one  tablespoonful  of  custard.  Whipped 
cream  with  vanilla  flavor  will  be  found  very  delicious  instead  of  the  cus- 
tard.    These  are  puffs  that  will  puff.  * 


422  CAKE. 

COCOANUT  CONES. 

One  pound  powdered  sugar ;  one-half  pound  of  grated  cocoanut,  and 
the  whites  of  five  eggs ;  whip  the  eggs  as  for  icing,  adding  the  sugar  as 
you  go  on,  until  it  will  stand  alone,  then  beat  in  the  cocoanut ;  mold  the 
mixture  with  your  hands  into  small  cones,  and  set  these  far  enough 
apart  not  to  touch  each  other,  upon  buttered  paper  in  a  baking  pan  ; 
bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven. 

RAISIN  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  sweet 

milk,  one  cup  heaping  full  of  chopped  raisins,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  and  about  two  cups  of  flour ;  flavor  ■with  nutmeg.  Put 
the  butter,  sugar,  well-beaten  eggs  and  the  milk  together,  then  stir  the 
flour  and  raisins  in. 

SILVER   CAKE. 

The  whites  of  sixteen  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth  ;  stir  to  them  one  pound 
of  pulverized  loaf  sugar.  Cream  together  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
butter  and  one  light  pound  of  sifted  flour;  add  all  together;  use  no 
spices ;  flavor  with  lemon,  vanilla  or  rose.  Almonds  blanched  and 
powdered  are  an  improvement.  Use  rose  water  with  the  almonds  to 
prevent  them  from  oiling. 

GOLDEN  CAKE. 

Made  by  the  same  recipe  as  for  silver  cake,  using  the  yolks  instead  of 
the  whites  ;  add  a  grated  lemon. 

JELLY  CAKE. 

A  very  beautiful  jelly  cake  can  be  made  by  using  a  little  of  the  same 
batter  from  each  of  the  foregoing  recipes,  and  baking  thin  as  in  direc- 
tions for  jelly  cake,  placing  the  silver  and  golden  cakes  alternately,  with 
jelly  between. 

BANBURY  BUNS. 

One-fourth  pound  butter,  one-half  pound  candied  peel,  one  pound 
currants,  one-fourth  ounce  ground  cinnamon,  one-fourth  ounce  allspice. 
Mix  well  together  and  keep  in  a  jar  ready  for  use.  Roll  out  a  rich  puff 
paste,  put  the  mixture  in  the  middle  and  fold  into  an  oval  shape ;  sift 
sugar  over  them  and  bake  like  pie. 

SUNSHINE   CAKE. 

The  whites  of  eleven  eggs  and  yokes  of  six ;  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
granulated  sugar,  measured  after  once  sifted  ;  one  cup  of  flour,  meas- 


CAKE  MAKING.  423 

ured  after  sifting  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and  one  of  extract 
of  orange.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  gradually  beat  in  the 
sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  in  a  similar  manner,  add  the  beaten  whites  and 
the  orange.  Finally,  stir  in  the  flour.  Mix  quickly  and  well,  and  place 
in  pans.     Bake  fifty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

Mix  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  with  a  pound  of  flour,  chop  in  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter;  dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  little  hot  water* 
and  add  with  a  well  beaten  ^%%  to  a  large  cup  of  sour  cream  or  rich 
•'  lobbered  "  milk,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar.  Put  all  together, 
handling  as  little  as  possible,  and  mix  as  soft  as  can  be  rolled.  Roll 
lightly  and  quickly  into  two  sheets,  and  bake  in  round  tins,  well 
greased,  laying  one  sheet  on  the  other.  When  done,  separate,  and  they 
will  part  where  they  were  joined.  Lay  on  the  lower  sheet  a  thick  layer  of 
strawberries  and  dust  with  powdered  sugar.  If  desired,  strawberries 
can  be  placed  on  top  and  sugared  as  before.  Serve  with  sweet  cream. 
If  the  strawberries  are  just  heated  a  little  and  crushed  lightly  with  a 
spoon  and  then  put  between  the  crusts,  the  cake  is  much  improved, 

COCOANUT  MACAROONS. 

One  pound  grated  cocoanut,  three-fourths  pound  pulverized  sugar ; 
put  on  stove  and  stir  until  sticky,  then  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  to  a  froth,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch.  Flavor  with 
vanilla,  drop  on  tins,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

LEMON  PUFFS. 

One  cup  prepared  flour,  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful butter,  three  eggs  beaten  stiff  (strain  yolks),  a  little  salt,  one 
grated  lemon  peel,  three  tablespoonfuls  milk ;  mix  and  bake  in  little 
pans. 

Sauce  for  Puffs — One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  %<g<g,  one 
lemon,  all  the  juice,  one-half  rind  'grated),  one  teaspoonful  nutmeg, 
three  tablespoonfuls  each  of  boiHng  water,  cream,  butter  and  sugar ; 
beat  all  hard  ten  minutes.  Add  spoonful  at  a  time  in  the  boiling  water. 
Put  in  a  pail  over  a  tea-kettle.  Stir  constantly,  and  do  not  let  boil,  but 
heat  hot. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  two  cups  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  milk, 
one-half  cup  butter,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  cloves,  one 
teaspoonful  cinnamon,    one   teaspoonful   allspice,  yolks  of   four  eggs; 


424  CAKE, 

cream  sugar  and  butter  ;  add  molasses,  then  eggs,  then  milk  ;  lastly,  add 
flour  with  spices  and  baking  powder  well  mixed  in  the  flour.  Bake  in 
jelly  tins.     Use  whites  of  eggs  for  filling. 

WHITE  NUT  CAKE. 

Whites  of  twelve  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups 
sugar,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour,  teaspoonful  of  yeast  powder.  After 
the  butter  is  well  mixed  add  one  large  cocoanut  grated  ;  one  large  tum- 
bler full  of  the  kernels  of  pecans  and  one  tumbler  full  of  blanched 
almonds,  the  almonds  to  be  slightly  mashed  in  a  mortar. 

GOLDEN  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Twelve  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  twelve  ounces  of  flour,  a  pinch  of 
salt;  flavor.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  the  yolks  till  the 
bubbles  look  fine.  When  the  yolks  are  beaten  enough  add  the  sugar 
and  beat  till  sugar  is  dissolved  ;  then  add  the  whites  and  lastly  the  flour, 
and  bake  immediately  in  brick  shaped  tins.  This  will  make  two  loaves. 
The  cake  is  much  nicer  if  baked  in  a  paste.  Make  with  flour  and  water 
only ;  roll  out  on  the  board  same  as  pie  crust,  line  your  greased  tins  all 
over  inside  with  the  paste  and  pour  in  the  batter.  Bake  nearly  an  hour. 
Do  not  break  off  the  paste  till  ready  to  use.  The  cake  will  be  more 
moist  and  keep  longer. 

CIDER  CAKE. 

One  cup  cider,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  two  cups  sugar,  six  cups 
flour,  spice  and  one  teaspoonful  saleratus. 

POUND   CAKE, 

Beat  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream,  and  mix  with  it  the  whites  and 
yolks  of  eight  eggs,  beaten  apart.  Have  ready  by  the  fire  a  pound  of 
flour,  and  the  same  of  sifted  sugar ;  mix  them,  a  few  cloves  and  a  Httle 
nutmeg  and  cinamon  in  a  fine  powder  together.  It  must  be  beaten  a 
full  hour.  Butter  a  pan,  and  bake  a  full  hour  in  a  quick  oven.  Be 
careful  not  to  let  it  burn. 

The  above  proportions,  leaving  out  four  ounces  of  sugar  and  the  same 
of  butter,  make  a  less  luscious  cake,  and  to  most  tastes  a  more  pleasant. 

FRENCH  EGG  CAKE. 

Beat  up  thoroughly  six  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  sweet  cream  or  milk 
and  a  little  salt.  Fry  in  a  pan  in  which  there  is  one-half  ounce  of 
melted  butter,  over  a  quick  fire.  In  order  that  the  omelet  may  remain 
soft  and  juicy  it  is  necessary  that  the  pan  should  be  hot  before  the  eggs 
are  poured  in.     During  the  frying  move  the  pan  continually  to  and  fro ; 


CAKE  MAKING.  425 

continue  this  until  a  cake  is  formed,  then  let  it  remain  still  a  moment  to 
brown.     Turn  out  and  serve  immediately. 

•  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  pulverized  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  butter ;  stir  the  but- 
ter and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  six  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  and  whites 
separately.  Add  the  yolks  to  the  butter  and  sugar;  one  pound  of  flour, 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  cup  of  milk.  Add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  the  last  thing ;  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

DUTCH  CAKES. 

Set  a  sponge  same  as  for  bread  (using  about  two  pounds  of  flour  and 
a  cup  of  yeast  for  the  purpose),  at  night ;  the  next  morning  add  four 
eggs,  half  pound  white  sugar,  about  quarter  pound  butter  (fresh),  cin- 
namon, and  a  few  raisins ;  then  add  enough  milk  (kneading  with  the 
hands)  sufficient  to  form  a  thick  batter.  Pour  this  mixture  into  tins  ; 
let  them  rise,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  will  be  sufficient  for 
two  large  cakes. 

FRENCH  LOAF  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  two  of  cream  tartar,  three  eggs,  three  cups  flour ;  flavor  with 
lemon. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one 
and  a  half  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  four  eggs  (the  white  only). 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  five  of  flour,  two  of  milk,  two  of  butter,  or  lard, 
seven  eggs,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  of  salt,  one  pound 
raisins,  one-half  pound  citron,  or  candied  lemon,  one-half  pound  of 
English  currants  or  figs ;  spices.  This  will  make  three  cakes.  Bake 
one  and  one-half  hours. 

FRUIT  CAKE  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

One  pound  of  clear  fat  pork  minced  fine,  over  which  pour  one  pint  of 
boiling  water ;  add  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  molasses,  and  a 
little  of  all  kinds  of  spices.  Mix  it  stiff ;  use  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of 
saleratus  and  fruit  to  taste. 

ENGLISH  TEA  CAKE. 
Take  a  light  bread  dough,  enough  for  a  small  loaf;   mix  with  it  one 
tablespoonful  of  lard,  one  of  sugar,  one  large  spoonful  of  currants ;   let 


426  ,  CAKE. 

it  rise  again  until  very  light ;    then  bake.     Cut  into  round  slices   and 
toast  them  ;  butter  while  hot. 

m 
RAILROAD  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  added  the  very  last ;  spread  very  thin  on  a  large  pan ; 
turn  out  on  a  towel  when  done ;  spread  with  jelly  and  roll  as  close  as 
possible. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  of  butter,  one  coffee-cup  of  sugar,  three 
eggs  (whites  of  three  reserved),  one-half  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  To  the  whites  of  three  eggs  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  pul- 
verized sugar.  Take  out  four  teaspoonfuls  for  frosting,  and  to  the 
remainder  add  six  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate. 

PLUM  CAKES. 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  one-half 
pound  of  butter,  six  spoonfuls  of  cream  and  one-half  pound  of  currants. 
Mix  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  first  washing  the  butter  is  free  of 
salt ;  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  then  the  cream,  a  Uttle  warm ;  then 
the  flour  and  currants,  the  latter  well  washed  and  dried  ;  mix  well  and 
make  into  small  cakes,  or  bake  in  very  small  round  tin  pans  in  a  toler- 
ably hot  oven.     Frost  them  and  put  a  sugar  ornament  on  each. 

FEATHER  CAKE. 

Beat  to  a  cream  one-half  cup  of  butter,  add  to  it  two  of  sugar  and 
beat  well  together ;  one  cup  of  milk  with  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  it ;  beat  well  together ;  then  add  one  cup  of  sifted  flour  with  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar,  previously  rubbed  into  it ;  add  next  the 
well  beaten  yolk  of  three  eggs,  beat  the  whites  separately  until  stiff,  add 
them  and  then  two  more  cups  of  flour ;  beat  well  between  each  suc- 
cessive addition  ;  butter  two  middle-sized  tins,  put  in  the  cake  and  bake 
for  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

LITTLE  ALMOND  CAKE. 

Four  ounces  of  sweet  almonds  and  four  or  five  bitter  ones,  one  pound 
of  powdered  and  sifted  sugar,  six  ounces  of  butter,  one  ^g^,  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour;  pound  the  almonds;  rub  the  butter  into 
the  flour  and  then  mix  all  well  together ;  bake  in  buttered  tins. 


CAKE  MAKING.  427 

HICKORY  NUT  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  half  pound  of  butter,  the 
whites  of  six  eggs,  well  beaten ;  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
one  cup  of  milk  and  one  and  a  half  cups  of  hickory  nut  meats. 

PECAN  CREAM   CAKE. 

The  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  melted,  half  cup  thick,  sour  cream,  nearly  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda ;  bake  in  layers.  Cream — One  cup  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a 
cup  pecan  meats,  cut  fine,  one  cup  of  cream,  tablespoonful  of  corn- 
starch ;  boil  until  thick ;  let  it  cool,  spread  between  layers. 

TIP-TOP  CAKE. 

One  ^gg,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  small  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one 
and  a  half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  baking  powder, 
one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract ;  beat  the  ^gg,  butter  and  sugar 
together  till  light ;  add  the  milk ;  sift  the  flour  and  powder  together 
and  add  to  the  rest ;  last,  put  in  your  extract. 

WHITE  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Place  a  clean  sieve  over  an  earthen  bowl  and  measure  into  the  sieve 
one  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  corn 
starch,  one  teaspoonful  of  Royal  baking  powder  ;  run  them  through 
together ;  have  ready  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ; 
add  one  teaspoonful  of  rose  extract ;  mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in  square 
tins  about  two  inches  deep  in  a  quick  oven.  To  serve  it  cut  in  small 
squares. 

IMPERIAL    CAKE. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  of 
raisins  (stoned),  one  of  almonds  (blanched),  ten  eggs,  three-quarters  of 
a  pound  of  citron  cut  fine,  one  glass  of  brandy,  one  of  rose  water,  mace. 

ENGLISH  FRUIT   CAKE. 

One  pound  powdered  white  sugar,  three-fourths  pound  butter,  one 
pound  flour,  twelve  eggs,  two  pounds  raisins,  two  pounds  currants, 
one-half  or  one-fourth  pound  of  citron,  cut  in  strips,  one-fourth  ounce, 
or  about  one  large  spoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg 
mixed,  one  glass  of  wine,  one  of  brandy. 

Directions  for  Making :  Dry,  sift,  and  then  weigh  flour.  Wash  cur- 
rants till  free  from  grit ;  lift  them  from  the  water,  do  not  pour  it  off ; 
dry  carefully  in  the  oven.  Seed  raisins,  pour  on  just  water  enough  to 
cover  them,  boil  till  dry — don't  scorch  them  ;  cool.     Take  a  handful  of 


428  CAKE. 

the  weighed  flour,  dredge  them  ;  ditto  currants.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar  ;  add  yolks  of  eggs,  then  spices.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a  foam  ; 
add  part  of  flour,  then  part  of  whites,  etc.,  till  all  in.  '  Now  wine  and 
brandy ;  mix  thoroughly  ;  add  fruit  and  cake  in  layers.  Best  baked  in 
one  large  eight-quart  pan,  hned  with  buttered  paper  cut  to  fit.  Bake 
four  hours.  Have  a  steady  fire ;  just  let  it  heat  through  the  first  hour ; 
then  stir  the  fire  a  Httle,  cover  the  cake  with  paper  and  bake  steadily 
two  hours  ;  the  last  hour  bake  very  slowly.  Have  everything  ready 
to  mix  the  day  before.  Cut  with  a  very  sharp  knife.  Best  a  week  or 
two  old. 

ENGLISH  FARM  CAKE. 

Two  pounds  of  butter,  softened  throughout,  but  not  melted;  add  two 
pounds  of  nice  white  soft  sugar,  and  mix  together  until  creamed  ;  take 
out  one-half  and  reserve  it  in  a  separate  bowl  until  wanted.  To  the 
rest  add  one  quart  of  pretty  warm,  sweet  milk  ;  stir  in  gradually  four 
pounds  of  flour,  then  mix  in  very  thoroughly  a  teacupful  of  lively,  home- 
made yeast.  Let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  very  light,  which  will  take 
about  four  hours  ;  then  add  the  remainder  of  the  butter  and  sugar  and  a 
little  more  flour  if  needed  ;  add  two  pounds  of  raisins,  nicely  stoned,  a 
little  pulverized  mace,  and,  if  at  hand,  some  candied  lemon  peel ;  let  it 
rise  again,  and  when  well  risen  mix  it  well,  using  the  hands,  and  pro- 
portion it  off  into  well-buttered  pans ;  let  them  stand  in  a  moderately 
warm  place  until  beginning  to  rise  ;  put  them  into  a  steady  oven  and 
bake  them  fully  an  hour  or  longer  if  only  one  or  two  pahs  are  used ; 
there  are  no  eggs  used  in  this  cake,  none  are  needed.  It  is  an  excellent 
cake  for  economical  housekeepers  to  make  in  winter,  when  eggs  are 
scarce  and  high-priced.  If  the  top  and  sides  are  frosted  it  will  keep 
moist  for  a  long  time.  Brown  paper  is  nice  to  wrap  cake  in  before  put- 
ting it  into  the  cake-box. 

NATIONAL  CAKE. 

White  part :  cream  together  one  cup  white  sugar  and  one-half  cup 
butter,  then  add  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  the  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs, 
one-half  cup  corn  starch,  one  cup  flour  into  which  has  been  mixed  one 
teaspoonful  cream  tartar  and  one-half  teaspoonful  soda.  Flavor  with 
lemon  extract. 

Blue  part :  cream  together  one  cup  blue  sugar-sand  and  one-half  cup 
butter ;  then  add  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  the  beaten  whites  of  four 
eggs,  and  two  cups  flour,  in  which  mix  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar 
and  one-half  teaspoonful  soda.     No  flavor. 

Red  part :  cream  together  one  cup  red  sugar  and  half  cup  butter ; 
then  add  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  the  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs  and 
two  cups  flour,  in  which  mix  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar  and  one- 
half  teaspoonful  soda.     No  flavor.     Place  in  a  cake  pan,  first  the  red. 


COOKIES,  SNAPS  AND  JUMBLES.  429 

then  the  white,  and  last  the  blue.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.     A  nice 
cake  for  pic-nic  or  party. 

MARBLE  CAKE. 

Light  part :  White  sugar  one  and  a  half  cups,  butter  half  cup,  sweet 
milk  half  a  cup,  soda  half  a  teaspoonful,  cream  of  tartar  one  teaspoon- 
ful,  whites  of  four  eggs,  flour  two  and  a  half  cups ;  beat  the  eggs  with 
the  sugar,  leaving  the  butter  to  soften  by  the  fire  ;  then  stir  it  in  ;  put 
your  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  into  the  milk,  stirring  up  and  mixing  all 
together  ;  then  sift  and  stir  in  the  flour. 

Dark  part :  Brown  sugar  one  cup,  molasses  half  cup,  butter  half  cup, 
sour  milk  half  cup,  soda  half  teaspoonful,  cream  of  tartar  one  teaspoon- 
ful, flour  two  and  a  half  cups,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  cloves,  allspice,  cinna- 
mon and  nutmeg,  ground,  of  each  half  a  tablespoonful ;  beat  and  mix 
as  directed.  When  each  part  is  ready  drop  a  spoonful  of  dark,  then  a 
spoonful  of  light  over  the  bottom  of  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked, 
and  so  proceed  to  fill  up  the  pan,  dropping  the  light  upon  the  dark  as 
you  continue  with  the  different  layers. 


COOKIES,  SNAPS  AND  JUMBLES. 


GRAHAM  WAFERS. 


Put  a  pinch  of  salt  into  one-half  pound  of  Graham  flour,  wet  it  with 
one-half  pint  of  sweet  cream,  mix  quickly  and  thoroughly,  roll  out  as 
thin  as  possible,  cut  in  strips,  prick  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


DUTCH  SUGAR  COOKIES. 

Four  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one-half  of  a  nutmeg,  one 
even  teaspoonful  soda ;  mix  well. 

BOSTON  COOKIES. 

One  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  sugar,  two  and  one-half  flour,  one 
and  one-half  raisins  chopped  fine,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved 
in  a  little  warm  water,  three  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  nutmeg  and  other 
flavoring  to  the  taste.  Mix  well,  roll  thin,  or  better  still,  drop  into  the 
pans  with  a  spoon  and  sprinkle  granulated  sugar  over  each. 

HICKORY  NUT  COOKIES. 

Take  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  half  a  cupful  of  melted  butter,  six 
tahlespoonfuls  of  milk  or  a  little  more  than  a  third  of  a  cup,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  cream  of  tartar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one  cup  of 
chopped  meats  stirred  into  the  dough. 


430  CAKE, 


NEW  YEAR'S  COOKIES. 

Weigh  out  a  pound  of  sugar,  three-quarters  pound  butter,  stir  them 
to  a  cream,  then  add  three  beaten  eggs,  a  grated  nutmeg,  a  spoonful  of 
extract  of  lemon  and  a  pint  of  flour ;  dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus 
in  a  teacup  of  milk,  strain  and  mix  it  with  half  a  teacup  of  cider  and 
stir  it  into  the  cookies ;  then  add  flour  to  make  them  sufficiently  stiff 
to  roll  out.  Bake  them  as  soon  as  cut  into  cakes  in  a  quick  oven  till 
a  light  brown. 

TRAINING  CAKES. 

Take  a  teacup  and  put  in  it  one  teaspoonful  soda,  two  tablespoonfuls 
water,  three  of  melted  shortening,  then  fill  the  cup  up  with  molasses 
and  pour  into  the  pan ;  add  salt  and  ginger  to  suit  the  taste ;  stir  in 
flour  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  knead  on  a  board,  the  same  as  for  bread, 
roll  out  and  cut  in  square  or  round  cakes. 

GINGER  COOKIES  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

One  cup  molasses,  half  cup  sugar,  half  cup  shortening,  half  cup  warm 
water,  two  teaspoonfuls  ginger,  two  teaspoonfuls  soda;  flavor  with 
nutmeg,  and  flour  to  roll  nicely.  Roll  no  thinner  than  one- fourth  inch, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

COCOANUT  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  tablespoonful  of  milk,  one  cocoanut  and  flour  enough  to  roll. 

HERMIT  COOKIES. 

Half  cup  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  all  kinds  of  spices,  half  teaspoonful  soda.  Dissolve  in  a  little 
water,  mix  up  stiff  and  roll. 

ABERFFRAW  CAKES. 

Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar, 
one  pound  flour ;  add  the  butter  by  degrees  and  work  with  the  hand  ; 
roll  out  and  cut  with  a  glass. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

Put  into  a  tin  pan  two  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  lard,  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger ;  boil 
until  these  thicken  a  little ;  stir  in  by  degrees  a  good  handful  of  sifted 
flour.  After  it  is  heated  well  add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  little  tepid  water;  mix  thoroughly  before  taking  from  the 


COOKIES,  SNAPS  AND  JUMBLES.  431 

stove,  then  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.     Roll  very  thin,  cut 
the  cakes  in  shapes  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

LEMON  SNAPS. 

One  coffee-cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  two  tggs, 
one  level  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  hot  water  ; 
flour  to  roll  thin ;  flavor  with  lemon ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven, 

JUMBLES. 
Take  one  pint  of  sour  cream,  three  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  and  one 
quart  of  flour  into  which  has  been  thoroughly  mixed  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  phosphatic  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Season  with  cinna- 
mon ;  cut  in  rings  and  fry  in  lard  to  a  light  brown,  or  bake  them  quickly 
in  a  hot  oven.  If  the  latter,  wet  the  tops  with  the  white  of  an  &gg  and 
sift  white  sugar  over.     They  are  excellent. 

COCOANUT  JUMBLES. 

One  pound  of  grated  cocoanut,  three-quarters  pound  of  pulverized 
sugar,  six  ounces  butter,  six  ounces  flour,  five  eggs ;  drop  with  table- 
spoon on  tins. 

JACKSON  JUMBLES. 

Three  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk,  teaspoonful  soda,  one 
cup  butter,  flavoring  to  taste ;  mold  very  soft,  only  kneading  in  enough 
flour  to  roll  without  sticking  to  the  board  ;  roll  a  little  thinner  than  for 
biscuits  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

GINGER  NUTS. 

Rub  in  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  half 
pound  of  brown  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon  and  cloves  (each),  one  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper.  Stir 
all  into  a  pint  of  West  India  molasses,  and  piece  of  a  lemon,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  two  of  cream  tartar. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 
Two  cups  of  molasses,  one  of  lard,  one  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of 
sour  milk,  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  stirred  in 
the  flour  and  one  in  the  milk,  and  two  eggs.      Roll  thin  and  bake 
quickly. 


4:32  CAKE. 


CRULLERS  AND  DOUGHTSTUTS 

HOW  TO  FRY  THEM. 

To  cook  these  properly  the  fat  must  be  sweet,  pure  and  of  the  right 
heat.  When  hot  enough  it  will  cease  to  bubble  and  be  perfectly  still ; 
try  with  a  bit  of  the  batter,  until  the  right  heat  is  ascertained,  and  be 
sure  and  not  have  the  fat  so  hot  that  it  burns  them.  Clarified  drippings 
of  roast  meat  is  better  than  lard,  or  half  of  each  may  be  used.  If  the 
lard  is  not  perfectly  sweet,  slice  a  raw  potato  and  fry  before  putting  in 
the  cakes.  Fry  in  an  iron  kettle,  the  spider  or  skillet  being  too  shallow 
for  the  purpose.  In  making  the  doughnuts  mold  them  as  softly  as  pos- 
sibly else  the  cakes  will  be  tough.  The  lard  may  be  used  from  time  to 
time,  cutting  a  potato  in  slices,  and  dropping  them  in  the  fat  to  clarify 
it,  then  placing  the  kettle  away  until  the  fat  settles  ;  then  strain  into  an 
earthen  crock  kept  for  this  purpose,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place  until 
ready  for  use. 

CRULLERS. 

Three  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sour . 
milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder ;  spice  and  flour  to  stiffen ; 
cut  in  rings  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

IMPERIAL  CRULLERS. 

Two  coffee-cups  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  butter,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  mixed  with  six 
cups  of  flour,  half  a  nutmeg,  and  a  level  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 
Beat  eggs,  sugar  and  butter  together,  add  milk,  spices  and  flour ;  put 
another  cup  flour  oil  molding-board,  turn  the  dough  out  on  it,  and  knead 
until  stiff  enough  to  roll  out  a  quarter  inch  thick ;  cut  in  squares,  make 
three  or  four  incisions  in  each  square,  lift  by  taking  alternate  strips 
between  the  finger  and  thumb,  drop  into  hot  lard  and  fry  like  dough- 
nuts. 

FRIED   CAKES. 

Three  eggs,  two  and  one-half  cups  sweet  milk,  two  cups  sugar,  two 
teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar,  one  of  soda;  spices  to  taste,  roll  out  and  cut 
in  shape  and  fry  in  boiling  lard ;  while  hot  dip  in  fine  sugar. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  teacup  sour  cream  or  milk,  two  teacups  of  sugar,  one  teacup  of 
butter,  four  eggs ;  spice  with  nutmeg  and  cinnamon ;  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda ;  beat  all  well  together  with  some  of  the  flour ;  then  mix  with 
the  hands  stiff  enough  to  roll ;  cut  in  diamond  cakes  and  fry  in  hot 
lard. 


LA  YER  CAKES.  433 


CREAM  DOUGHNUTS. 


Beat  one  cup  each  of  sour  cream  and  sugar  and  two  eggs  together 
add  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  roll. 

GLOBE  DOUGHNUTS. 

Roll  out  dough  slightly  sweetened  and  shortened,  as  if  for  very  plain 
doughnuts ;  cut  in  circles  like  biscuits,  put  a  teaspoonful  of  jam  or  jelly 
in  the  center  of  one,  lay  another  upon  it,  pull  the  edges  slightly  together 
with  the  fingers,  and  fry  quickly  in  boiling  fat.  They  will  be  perfect 
globes  when  done,  a  little  smaller  than  an  orange. 

GERMAN  OLLY  KOEKS. 

Roll  yeast  dough  about  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  small  biscuit, 
let  rise,  and,  when  light,  roll  down  a  Httle,  lay  a  few  raisins  rolled  in 
cinnamon  in  the  center,  net  the  edges,  by  dipping  the  fingers  in  cold 
water  and  passing  over  them,  draw  them  together  and  press  very 
firmly,  and  drop  them  into  the  hot  fat. 


LAYER  CAKES. 

JELLY  CAKES. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  cream 
tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  pinch  of  salt.  Make  two  cakes, 
spread  thin  on  long  tins.  As  soon  as  done  spread  on  jelly,  and  roll  up 
immediately.  This  will  not  break  in  rolling  unless  there  is  too  much 
flour  in  it. 

VIENNA  CREAM  CAKE. 

Four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of 
lemon.  Bake  in  jelly  tins.  For  the  cream,  take  one  cup  of  thick  sour 
cream,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  hickory  nut  meats,  rolled  fine. 
Stir  all  together  and  put  on  the  stove  and  boil  for  five  minutes ;  spread 
between  the  layers. 

FIG  CAKE. 

Three  teacups  sugar,  one    teacup    each  of  butter  and  sweet  milk 
four  teacups  of  flour,  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs,  beaten,  two  tea-spoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder,  one  pound  of  figs  boiled  till  smooth ;  put  this 
between  each  layer. 
28 


434:  CAKE. 

SPICED  RAISIN  CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  butter,  six  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  four 
cups  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  sea  foam ;  take  6ne-third  of  this 
mixture  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves,  a  little  nut- 
meg and  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins.  Bake  in  layers  the  same  as  jelly- 
cake,  and  put  icing  between  each  layer.  Half  this  quantity  will  make 
one  large  cake. 

GENTLEMEN'S  FAVORITE. 

Seven  eggs,  white  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  two  cups  sugar  and 
one-half  cup  of  butter,  worked  to  a  cream.  One  tablespoonful  of 
water,  two  teaspoons,  level  full,  of  baking  powder,  two  cups  of  flour, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  bake  in  jelly  cake  tins. 

Jelly  for  same — One  ^g%,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  grated  apples 
without  the  peelings,  one  lemon;  stir  till  it  thickens.  Cool  before 
using. 

LAYER  CAKE. 

Take  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  a  half 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls of  cream  tartar,  three  teacups  flour.  This  will  make  two 
cakes.  Take  half,  bake  it  in  layers  for  jelly  cake;  the  other  in  a 
common  cake  tin.     Flavor  them  alike  or  differently. 

LEMON  JELLY  CAKE. 

Two  large  eggs,  well  beaten ;  third  of  a  cup  of  butter,  melted ;  one 
cup  sugar;  half-cup  water  or  milk ;  one  cup  and  a  half  of  flour,  salt  and 
two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  Bake  in  three  jelly  tins.  When  done, 
take  out  and  spread  with  the  following  mixture,  already  made  and 
cooled :  Jelly — Grate  the  yellow  of  the  rind  of  one  lemon,  add  the 
juice ;  a  great  spoonful  of  water ;  half  cup  sugar ;  lump  of  butter  large 
as  a  walnut;  one  ^gg.  Beat  all  together  and  let  boil  up  a  minute 
in  a  small  tin. 

COCOANUT  CAKE. 

Three  eggs  (the  whites  of  two  of  them  to  be  used  for  frosting),  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  two- 
thirds  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and  a  half  tea- 
spoonful of  soda.  Bake  in  thin  round  tins ;  make  a  frosting  of  the  whites 
of  the  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  four  dessert-spoonfuls  of  white 
sugar ;  spread  on  the  top  of  the  cakes  and  sprinkle  the  grated  cocoanut 
with  the  frosting. 

HOLIDAY   CAKE. 

Two  coffee  cups  of  sugar,  one  teacup  of  butter  ;  beat  thoroughly  to  a 
cream  with  large  spoon.    One  coffee  cup  of  corn  starch,  two  teacups  of 


LA  YER  CAKES.  135 

sifted  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  seven  eggs  beaten  very  thoroughly 
with  an  egg-beater,  then  any  essence  )'ou  prefer.  Stir  rapidly  and  well* 
Bake  it  in  pans  twelve  inches  long  by  eight  inches  wide,  and  as  thick 
as  for  a  "jelly  cake,"  and  lay  them  on  pieces  of  tin  a  little  larger  than 
pans.  Have  ready  frosting  made  of  one  pound  of  fine  sifted  treble 
refined  sugar,  the  whites  of  five  eggs  and  essence  the  same  as  in  the 
cake.  Put  two  layers  of  cake  together  with  frosting  of  the  same  thick- 
ness between.  When  cold,  trim  the  edges  with  a  sharp  knife  (or 
rather  when  ready  to  use  it) ;  cut  it  down  the  center  and  across  three 
times,  making  little  cakes  four  inches  by  three  inches. 

UNION  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three-fourths  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  three  cups  flour,  whites  of  six  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  and 
one  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar.  Custard  for  the  layers :  One  pint 
milk,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch ; 
boil  until  like  thick  cream  and  spread  between  the  layers  when  cooL 
Flavor  to  the  taste. 

ALMOND   CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  three  of  flour,  three- 
quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  whites 
of  six  eggs  ;  bake  in  layers. 

CRYSTAL  ALMOND   CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  half-cup  butter,  four  eggs,  half-cup 
milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder ;  bake  in 
sheets.  Icing— whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  three  tablespoonfuls 
white  sugar,  one  cup  chopped  nut  meats  ;  flavor  to  taste  and  put  these 
between  and  on  top  of  layers. 

NEAPOLITAN   CAKE. 

Black  :  Take  one  cup  butter,  two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  molasses, 
one  cup  strong  coffee,  four  and  a  half  cups  sifted  flour,  four  eggs,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  two  of  cinnamon,  two  of  cloves,  one  of  mace, 
one  pound  raisins,  one  of  currants,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron. 
Wiiite:  One  cup  butter,  four  cups  white  sugar,  two  cups  sweet  milk, 
two  cups  corn  starch  mixed  with  four  and  a  half  cups  of  sifted  flour, 
whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one-half 
teaspoonful  extract  of  bitter  almonds.  Bake  the  cakes  in  round  jjlly 
pans  with  straight  edges ;  the  loaves  should  be  one  and  a  half  inches 
in  thickness  after  baking.  When  the  cake  is  cold,  each  black  loaf 
should  be  spread  with   a  thick  coating  of  lemon  and  sugar,  made  as 


436  CAKE. 

follows :  The  white  of  one  ^<gg,  thoroughly  beaten,  the  grated  rind  of 
two  and  the  juice  of  three  lemons  ;  powdered  sugar  enough  to  make  a 
thick  frosting;  lay  a  white  loaf  on  each  black  one  and  frost  as  you 
would  any  other  cake. 

FROSTED  RAISIN  CAKE.     . 

One  cup  sugar,  one  of  flour,  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
water,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  a 
walnut ;  flavor  and  bake  in  layers.  For  frosting — White  of  one  ^g^ 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful 
of  water;  put  in  a  dish  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water ;  cook  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes,  but  do  not  let  it  get  stiff ;  have  ready  a  large  teacup 
of  stoned  raisins  chopped  very  fine;  stir  in  the  frosting  and  put 
between  and  on  the  top  of  layers. 

MALAGA  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  butter ;  beat  to  a  cream ;  add 
half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk ;  mix  three  cups  of  flour  with  three  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder ;  beat  the  whites  of  seven  eggs  to  a  froth ;  stir 
all  together  and  flavor  with  lemon  ;  bake  in  sheets.  Filling — Whites  of 
three  eggs  beaten  with  sugar  as  for  frosting ;  save  out  enough  for  the 
top  of  the  cake ;  add  one  coffee  cup  of  seeded  and  chopped  raisins,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  extract ;  spread  between  the  cake. 

LAYER  CREAM  CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  white  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  cold  water,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream,  two  spoonfuls  of  baking  powder  half  cup  flour. 
For  the  cream — Half  cup  of  cream  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  ad(^  a  little 
sugar  :  flavor  to  taste. 

FRUIT  JELLY  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  same  of  sweet  milk,  four 
eggs,  three  cups  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  stir  together; 
then  divide  into  three  equal  parts.  Into  one  part  stir  one  tablespoonful 
of  molasses,  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves, 
cinnamon  and  nutmeg.     Bake  and  put  together  with  jelly  or  frosting. 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

Mix  two  cups  of  sugar  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  then  add  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  next,  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
then  one  cup  of  milk  and  flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  cup  cake  ;  flavor  to 
taste  ;  bake  in  jelly  pans.  Filling— One  lemon,  two  oranges  ;  grate  the 
rinds,  add  the  juice,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch, 
one  cup  of  water ;  beat  until  smooth  ;  cool  before  putting  between 
cakes. 


*       CATS  UPS  AND  SA  UCES.  48  7 

DOLLY  VARDEN  CAKE. 

Whites  of  five  eggs,  one  coffee  cup  of  white  sugar,  one  half-cup  of 
butter,  two  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonfui 
of  baking  powder,  well  mixed  in  flour ;  bake  in  jelly  pans.  Yolks  of 
five  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  haif-cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  flour, 
one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonfui  of  baking  powder,  one 
pound  currants  ;  flavor  with  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  ;  bake  in  jelly  pans. 
Jelly  for  the  above— Two  lemons  grated  and  squeezed,  two  cups  white 
sugar,  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  cook  until  quite 
thick,  stirring  all  the  time.  Place  cake  after  baking  in  alternate  layers, 
with  jelly  between. 

APPLE  CAKE. 

One  heaping  cup  sugar,  one  large  tablespoonful  butter,  two  eggs,  half 
cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  nice,  thick,  soft 
batter,  one  teaspoonfui  cream  tartar,  half  of  soda ;  this  will  make  three 
layers  if  the  pan  is  not  too  large.  Filling  for  layers — Two  large  apples 
(greenings  are  best,  or  any  tart  apple)  ;  peel  one  and  grate;  then  grate 
one  lemon  peel ;  squeeze  juice  and  grate  the  pulp  ;  to  this  add  one  cup 
of  sugar  and  one  white  of  egg ;  put  all  in  a  tin  cup  and  cook  thor- 
oughly ;  then  spread  between  cakes  as  jelly  cake. 

FRUIT   SPONGE. 

In  a  long  baking  pan  bake  a  sponge  cake  which  shall  be  about  an 
inch  and  a  half  thick  when  baked.  Split  it  open  while  hot  and  spread 
inside  a  layer  of  thin  sliced,  rich  juicy  peaches ;  over  these  spread  a 
layer  of  icing  and  lay  the  other  half  of  the  cake  on  top,  baked  side 
down ;  on  top  spread  another  layer  of  peaches  and  icing,  and  ice  the 
sides  of  the  cake  also.  Set  in  a  cool  oven  and  brown  slightly.  Eat 
with  cream.     Any  other  juicy  fruit  may  be  used  instead  of  peaches. 


CATSUPS  AiN^D  SAUCES. 

HOW  TO  COMPOUND  THEM. 

Select  perfect  fruit ;  always  cook  in  porcelain,  never  in  metal ;  bottle 
in  stone  and  glass,  and  never  use  tin;  keep  in  a  dry,  dark,  cool  place. 
If,  on  opening,  there  is  mold  on  the  catsup,  remove  carefully  every 
particle  of  it,  and  the  catsup  will  not  then  be  injured.  To  prevent  this 
molding,  the  cans  may  be  filled  nearly  to  the  top  with  the  catsup 
and  the  rest  filled  up  with  hot  vinegar.  If,  on  opening,  there 
is  danger  of  the  rest  spoiling,  heat  it  thoroughly,  and  if  too  thick 
add  vinegar.  Some  do  not  boil  their  catsup,  but  instead  sprinkle  the 
tomatoes  with  salt  and  let  them  stand  over  night,  then  strain  and  add 


43S  CATSUPS  AND  SAUCES.       ' 

spices.  The  following  will  apply  to  cherries,  peaches,  plums,  grapes  and 
all  kinds  of  berries.  The  object  is  to  get  the  pulp  of  the  fruit  as  the 
foundation  for  the  catsups,  and  they  wonderfully  retain  their  flavor, 
notwithstanding  all  the  ingredients  added  :  To  every  quart  of  the  juicy 
pulp  allow  one  pound  of  sugar,  two  blades  of  mace,  three  of  cinnamon, 
one  Leaspoonful  of  whole  cloves,  one  of  pepper  corns  ;  boil  all  down 
one  third,  then  skim  out  the  spices,  add  the  sugar  and  boil  till  thick,  and 
then  reduce  to  a  proper  consistency  with  vinegar,  and  bottle  for  use. 

For  seasoning  food  and  sauces  are  herbs  which  usually  are  dried  during 
the  summer  season.  Many  people  have  the  idea  that  a  finely-flavored 
dish  must  cost  a  great  deal ;  that  is  a  mistake ;  if  you  have  untainted 
meat,  or  sound  vegetables,  or  even  Indian  meal,  to  begin  with,  you  can 
make  it  delicious  with  proper  seasoning.  One  reason  why  French* 
cooking  is  much  nicer  than  any  other  is  that  it  is  seasoned  with  a  great 
variety  of  herbs  and  spices ;  these  cost  very  little ;  if  you  would  buy  a 
five  cents'  worth  at  a  time  you  would  soon  have  a  good  assortment. 
The  best  kinds  are  sage,  thyme,  sweet  marjoram,  tarragon,  mint,  sweet 
basil,  parsley,  bay  leaves,  cloves,  mace,  celery  seed  and  onions.  If  you 
will  plant  the  seed  of  any  of  these  seven  first  mentioned  in  little  boxes 
on  your  window  sill,  or  in  a  sunny  spot  in  the  yard,  you  can  generally 
raise  all  you  need.  Gather  and  dry  as  follows :  Parsley  and  tarragon 
should  be  dried  in  June  and  July,  just  before  flowering ;  mint  in  June 
and  July ;  thyme,  marjoram  and  savory  in  July  and  August ;  basil  and 
sage  in  August  and  September ;  all  herbs  should  be  gathered  in  the 
sunshine,  and  dried  by  artificial  heat ;  their  flavor  is  best  preserved  by 
keeping  them  in  air-tight  tin  cans,  or  in  tightly-corked  glass  bottles. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

Take  a  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes ;  rub  them  with  a  damp  cloth  ;  cut 
out  the  hearts,  and  place  them  over  a  fire  with  two  heaping  handfuls  of 
peach  leaves,  one  dozen  large  onions  (cut  in  small  pieces)  and  one  quart 
of  water ;  boil  until  soft  and  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve ;  it  will  take 
about  two  hours  to  boil  soft  enough.  Put  the  liquid  in  the  boiler  again 
over  the  fire,  adding  a  half  gallon  of  strong  vinegar.  Have  ready  two 
ounces  ground  allspice,  two  ounces  ground  black  pepper,  two  ounces 
cayenne  pepper,  two  ounces  mustard  and,  if  preferred,  two  ounces 
celery  seed,  one  ounce  ground  cloves,  two  grated  nutmegs,  two  pounds 
brown  sugar  and  one  pint  of  salt;  mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly 
before  putting  them  in  the  boiler.  Boil  two  hours  and  when  cool  put 
in  bottles,  cork,  seal  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

CHERRY  CATSUP. 

One  pint  of  pure  cherry  juice,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful 
each  of  ground  cloves  and  cinnamon.     Boil  to  a  thick  syrup  and  bottle. 


CA  TS  UPS  AND  SA  UCES,  439 

GRAPE   CATSUP. 

Nine  pounds  of  grapes  and  six  pounds  of  brown  sugar.  Boil  the 
grapes  until  soft ;  rub  through  colander ;  add  sugar  and  boil  until  quite 
thick,  then  add  three  pints  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cloves, 
cinnamon,  allspice  and  black  pepper. 

MUSHROOM  CATSUP. 

Take  the  full  grown  mushrooms ;  wipe  them  clean  and  crush  them 
with  your  hands ;  throw  in  a  handful  of  salt  with  every  peck  of  mush- 
rooms and  let  them  stand  all  night ;  strain  through  a  sieve  and  press 
out  all  the  juice.  To  every  gallon  of  liquor  put  cloves,  Jamaica  ginger 
and  black  pepper,  one  ounce  of  each,  and  half  pound  of  salt.  Set  it  on 
a  slow  fire  and  let  it  boil  until  half  the  Hquor  is  wasted,  then  put  into  an 
earthen  vessel ;  when  cold  bottle  it. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP. 

Take  green  cucumbers,  as  you  like  them  for  the  table,  peel  them  and 
let  them  lie  in  salt  water  a  short  time.  If  large,  cut  in  two  and  scrape  out 
the  seeds,  grate  on  a  coarse  grater.  For  every  dozen  cucumbers  grate 
one  good-sized  onion.  After  all  is  grated  pour  off  the  water  which  has 
collected,  measure  it  and  for  as  much  water  as  you  pour  off  add  the  best 
cider  vinegar.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste.  Should  the 
vinegar  be  too  sharp  dilute  with  the  cucumber  water ;  if  it  is  too  thin 
use  less  vinegar.     Put  in  jars  like  fruit — no  heating  required. 

GOOSEBERRY  CATSUP. 

Five  pints  of  vinegar,  four  pounds  of  green  gooseberries,  one-half 
pound  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  raisins,  one-quarter  pound  of 
currants,  one-quarter  pound  of  common  salt,  two  ounces  of  mustard, 
two  ounces  of  onions,  one-half  ounce  chillies ;  one-half  ounce  allspice, 
one-half  ounce  ground  ginger,  one-half  ounce  of  ground  mace,  one-half 
ounce  ground  turmeric,  one  nutmeg.  Boil  the  vinegar,  currants,  onions, 
gooseberries  and  chillies  till  quite  soft;  then  pour  through  a  fine  sieve 
on  the  remaining  ingredients. 

RED-PEPPER  CATSUP. 

Cut  up  red  peppers  and  place  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  until  it  is 
full ;  then  cover  with  the  best  cider  vinegar  and  boil  until  the  peppers 
have  dropped  to  pieces.  After  removing  from  the  fire,  as  soon  as 
the  sauce  is  cool  enough,  rub  it  through  a  wire  sieve.  It  is  much 
better  without  salt  or  any  other  condiments,  and  is  of  a  beautiful 
scarlet   color,    and   so   thick  that   it  must  be   put  for   use   in   large- 


440  CA  TSUPS  AND  SA  UCES. 

mouthed  bottles  or  jars.     This  will  keep  fresh  for  years.    It  should  boO 
slowly  for  at  least  four  hours. 

LEMON  CATSUP. 

One  pound  and  a  quarter  of  salt,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground 
mustard,  one  ounce  each  of  mace,  nutmeg-,  cayenne  and  allspice,  one 
gallon  of  cider  vinegar,  eight  or  nine  garlic  cloves,  fifteen  large  lemons. 
Slice  the  lemons;  add  the  other  ingredients  ;  let  simmer  from  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes  ;  place  in  a  covered  jar ;  stir  every  day  for  seven  or  eight 
weeks,  strain  then,  bottle,  cork  and  seal. 

COLD  CATSUP. 

Half  peck  ripe  tomatoes  peeled  and  cut  fine ;  one  cup  grated  horse- 
radish ;  one  small  cup  salt;  one  small  cup  brown  and  white  mustard 
seed  mixed  ;  two  tablespoonfuls  black  pepper,  ground  ;  two  red  peppers 
without  seeds,  cut  fine ;  one  ounce  celery  seed  ;  one  cup  chopped  onions  ; ' 
one  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  cloves  and  mace ;  two  leaspoonfuls 
cinnamon,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  quart  best  cider  vinegar.  Mix  all 
together  thoroughly,  without  boiling,  and  put  away  in  small  jars.  It 
can  be  used  at  once,  and  is  a  delicious  relish  with  cold  or  hot  meats. 

CHILLI  SAUCE. 

Eighteen  large  ripe  tomatoes,  eight  red  peppers,  one  onion ;  chop 
fine;  add  four  cups  vinegar;  four  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls salt,  one  tablespoonful  ginger,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cloves, 
cinnamon,  allspice  and  nutmeg;  boil  one  hour.  This  makes  about 
three  quarts. 

HOT  SAUCE  FOR  MEATS. 

Four  onions,  two  cups  of  sugar,  thirty-two  tom.atoes,  one  quart  of 
vinegar,  four  peppers,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cinnamon,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cloves,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  red  pep- 
per; cook,  stram  and  bottle. 

MINT   SAUCE. 

Mix  one  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar  to  half  a  teacup  of  good  vine- 
gar ;  add  the  mint  and  let  it  infuse  for  half  an  hour  before  sending  to 
the  table.     Serve  with  roast  lamb  or  mutton. 

EGG  SAUCE. 
Take  yolks  of  two  eggs  boiled  hard  ;  mash  them  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  mustard,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar 
and  three  of  salad  oil.     A  tablespoonful  of  catsup  improves  this  for 
some.     This  sauce  is  very  nice  for  boiled  fish. 


CA  TSUFS  AND  SA  UCES.  441 

FISH  SAUCE. 

One  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  finely 
chopped  parsley,  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons. 
Cream  the  butter ;  mix  all  well  together,  adding  at  the  least  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  mayonnaise.     Less  lemon  juice  may  be  used  if  preferred. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

Nine  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  cut  small,  a  red  pepper  chopped  fine, 
one  teacup  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  brown  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  ginger,  one  of  cloves,  one  of  allspice ; 
put  vinegar  in  last ;  stew  one  hour. 

PEPPER  SAUCE. 

Four  dozen  green  peppers,  five  onions,  one  handful  of  garlic,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  horseradish,  two  quarts  best  cider  vinegar,  one 
quart  of  water.  Put  the  whole  into  a  kettle  on  the  fire  and  boil  until 
soft  enough  to  mash  in  a  sieve  with  a  spoon,  then  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  black  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  allspice  powdered,  mace 
pulverized,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  cloves  pulverized  and  one  table- 
spoonful of  salt.  Place  the  mixture  on  the  fire  and  let  boil  ten  minutes. 
Pass  all  the  spices  through  a  sieve  before  adding  to  the  peppers. 

TOMATO  MUSTARD. 

One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes  ;  boil  with  two  onions,  six  red  peppers,  four 
cloves  of  garlic,  for  one  hour,  then  add  a  half  pint  or  half  pound  of  salt, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  half  ounce  ginger,  half  ounce  all- 
spice, half  ounce  of  mace,  half  ounce  of  cloves,  then  boil  again  for  one 
hour  longer,  and  when  cold  add  one  pint  of  vinegar  and  a  quarter  pound 
of  mustard,  and  if  you  like  it  very  hot,  a  tablespoonful  of  cayenne. 

HORSE  RADISH  SAUCE. 

Grate  very  fine  a  root  of  horse  radish  ;  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  it 
mix  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  stir"  briskly 
and  add  by  degrees  a  wineglass  of  vinegar. 

SHIRLEY  SAUCE. 

Four  quarts  of  tomatoes,  four  spoonfuls  of  salt,  four  of  black  pepper, 
one-half  spoonful  cayenne  pepper,  one-half  of  allspice,  three  spoonfuls 
of  mustard,  all  simmered  slowly  in  one  quart  of  vinegar  for  three  hours. 
Bottle  when  cold.  Put  one  teaspoonful  of  olive  oil  in  each  bottle  just 
before  corking  to  preserve  it. 


M2  CATSUPS  AND  SAUCES. 


SAUCE  FOR  ROAST  BEEF. 

Grate  horse  raddish  on  a  grater  into  a  basin,  add  twotablespoonfnls 
cream,  with  a  little  mustard  and  salt,  mix  well  together,  add  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  best  vinegar  and  mix  the  whole  thoroughly.  The  vin- 
egar and  cream  are  both  to  be  cold. 

CELERY  SAUCE. 

Wash  six  or  eight  heads  and  take  off  the  outer  leaves;  cut  the  heads 
up  into  bits  three  or  four  inches  long.  Stew  them  until  tender  in  half  a 
pint  of  broth  or  white  gravy,  then  add  two  spoonfuls  of  cream  and  an 
ounce  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  simmer 
the  whole  together.  The  leaves  will  do  to  flavor  soup  that  is  to  be 
strained. 

MUSTARD  SAUCE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
four  eggs  and  one  tablespoonful  of  mustard ;  beat  the  eggs  well,  mix 
all  together,  turn  into  a  new  tin  pail  or  basin  and  boil  in  water  same  as 
custard,  only  to  a  cream,  not  thick.  Strain  through  a  thin  cloth  and  it 
is  done. 

COMMON  ONION  SAUCE. 

Take  four  or  five  white  onions,  half  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  one  ounce  of 
butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  suit  your  taste.  Peel  the  onions  and  boil 
them  till  they  are  tender,  press  the  water  from  them  and  chop  them 
very  fine.  Have  the  milk  hot,  pulp  the  onions  with  it,  add  the  butter ; 
pepper  and  salt  to  suit  your  taste. 

TOMATO  SOY. 

Slice  green  tomatoes,  put  a  little  salt  on  them  and  leave  them  in  a 
large  dish  to  drain,  then  add  half  as  much  onions  cut  up  as  you  have 
tomatoes ;  vinegar  enough  to  keep  from  burning,  and  spice  to  suit  the 
taste — allspice,  black  pepper,  mustard,  ginger  and  red  pepper ;  boil 
half  an  hour ;  when  cold  pour  off  the  vinegar  and  add  fresh. 

TOMATO  RELISH. 

Twenty-five  tomatoes  (ripe  and  peeled),  four  onions,  eight  peppers 
(seeds  taken  out),  chopped  fine  with  onions,  eight  cups  of  vinegar* 
four  tablespoonf uls  sugar,  two  of  salt.     Boil  gently  one  hour. 

SALAD  SAUCE. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  cold,  hard  boiled  eggs  through  a  coarse  sieve  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  mix  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  or  water,  then  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  or  melted  butter;  when  thoroughly  mixed  add 


CA  TSUPS  AND  SA  UCES.  443 

by  degrees  a  teaspoonful  of  fine  salt  rolled ;  the  same  quantity  of  mus- 
tard— French,  Tarragon  or  Anchovy  is  best — and  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  white  wine  vinegar ;  when  mixed  into  a  smooth  paste  pour  down  the 
side  of  the  salad  bowl,  but  do  not  stir  it  until  the  salad  is  ready  to  be 
e.iten.  The  whites  of  eggs  cut  in  various  forms  may  be  used  to  garnish 
the  top  of  the  salad.  The  greens  should  be  freshly  gathered,  carefully 
picked  over  and  laid  in  cool  water  an  hour  or  two  and  dried  in  a  napkin 
before  being  laid  in  the  dish. 

CHILLI  SAUCE. 

Take  one  peck  tomatoes  (ripe)  peeled,  twelve  onions  (if  liked),  three 
red  and  three  green  peppers ;  chop  all  fine,  add  nearly  a  half  cup  of  salt, 
one  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice  and  mace.  Put  all 
in  a  large  pot  or  pan  and  boil  two  hours,  stirring  frequently ;  when 
cooked  add  one  quart  of  vinegar  and  a  pint  bottle  of  Worcestershire 
sauce  and  let  it  just  boil,  then  bottle  hot. 

GREEN  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Cut  up  two  gallons  of  green  tomatoes  ;  take  three  gills  of  black  mus- 
tard seed,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  dry  mustard,  two  and  a  half  of  black 
pepper,  one  and  a  half  of  allspice,  four  of  salt,  two  of  celery  seed,  one 
quart  each  of  chopped  onions  and  sugar,  and  two  and  a  half  quarts  of 
good  vinegar,  a  little  red  pepper  to  taste.  Pulverize  the  spices  and  boil 
all  together  until  well  done. 

HORSE  RADISH  FOR  WINTER. 
In  the  fall  mix  the  quantity  wanted  in  the  following  proportions  :  A 
coffee  cup  of  grated  horse  radish,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cold  vinegar ;  bottle 
and  seal.  To  make  horse  radish  sauce,  take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
above,  add  one  dessert  spoonful  olive  oil  (or  melted  butter  or  cream) 
and  one  of  prepared  mustard. 

VINEGAR  SAUCE. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  two  of  sugar,  two  of  flour,  one  of  but- 
ter, one  of  vanilla ;  stir  all  together  with  a  little  water  till  it  makes  a 
smooth  paste  ;  add  nearly  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stirring  gently,  let  it 
come  to  a  boil ;  add  one  well-beaten  ^gg.     Set  aside  for  use. 

PREPARED  MUSTARD. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard,  one  of  flour ;  mix  thoroughly  while 
dry.     Have  a  teacup  two-thirds  full  of  strong  mustard  ;  fill  with  water. 


444  CATSUPS  AND  SAUCES. 

stir  the  flour  and  mustard  into  it  and  let  it  boil  until  as  thick  as  custard ; 
remove  from  the  fire  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

NASTURTIUM  SEED. 

Take  the  green  seed  after  the  flower  has  dried  off,  lay  it  in  salt  and 
water  two  days,  in  cold  water  one  day ;  pack  in  bottles  and  cover  with 
scalding  vinegar  seasoned  with  mace  and  white  peppercorns,  arid 
sweetened  slightly  with  white  sugar.  Cork  and  set  away  four  weeks 
before  you  use  them.     A  good  substitute  for  capers. 

GRAVY  SAUCE. 

To  have  gravy  always  o-n  hand,  you  must  do  as  the  French  do,  namely, 
save  gristle,  and  every  bone  left  from  cold  meat  or  fresh.  The  bones 
must  be  chopped  small  and  put  on  to  stew  with  enough  water  to  cover. 
Leave  the  fat  on  until  you  need  to  use  the  gravy.  By  this  means  it  will 
keep  longer. 

FRENCH  MUSTARD. 

Slice  an  onion  in  a  bowl  and  cover  it  with  good  vinegar ;  after  two 
•days  pour  off  the  vinegar,  add  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  mustard  enough  to 
thicken ;  set  on  the  stove  until  it  boils ;  when  cold  it  is  fit  for  use. 

SOYER  SAUCE. 

One  spoonful  mustard,  same  olive  oil,  half  cup  catsup. 

BROWN  GRAVY  SAUCE. 

Three  onions  sliced  and  fried  in  butter  to  a  nice  brown.  Toast  a 
large,  thin  slice  of  bread  slowly  until  quite  hard  and  of  a  deep  brown. 
Take  these,  with  any  piece  of  meat,  bone,  etc.,  and  some  herbs,  and  set 
them  on  the  fire  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water,  and  stew  down  until  it 
is  as  thick  as  gravy.  Season,  strain,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  until  you 
want  to  use  it.  It  will  be  found  very  nice  to  warm  up  any  kind  of  cold 
meat,  or  for  veal  cutlets. 

CAPER  SAUCE. 

One  cup  of  the  liquor  in  which  meat  has  been  boiled,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  flour,  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  water  ;  salt  to  taste ;  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  two  dozen  capers,  or  green  nasturtium-seed ;  heat 
the  liquor  to  boiling,  and  skim  before  stirring  in  the  flour,  which  must 
be  perfectly  free  from  lumps,  and  rubbed  smooth  in  cold  water;  stir 
until  the  sauce  thickens  evenly.  When  it  has  boiled  about  a  minute, 
add  the  butter  gradually,  stirring  each  bit  in  well  before  putting  in 
more ;  salt  and  drop  in  the  capers.  Let  it  just  boil  and  turn  into  a 
sauce-boat. 


CONFECTIONERY.  445 

ONION  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Boil  three  or  four  white  onions  until  tender ;  mince  fine  ;  boil  half 
pint  of  milk  ;  add  butter  half  size  of  an  egg;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  stir  in  minced  onion,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  which  has  been 
moistened  with  milk. 

MINT  SAUCE. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  green  mint  chopped  very  fine,  one  tablespoonful 
white  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  best  vinegar ;  put  sugar  and  vinegar  into  a 
sauce-boat,  and  stir  in  the  mint ;  let  it  stand  fifteen  minutes  before 
serving. 


CONFECTIONERY. 


CANDY  MAKING. 


The  first  step  is  the  reduction  of  sugar  to  a  syrup,  which  is  done  by 
adding  water  to  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water  to 
three  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar.  Put  in  a  marbleized  saucepan,  and 
when  it  has  boiled  ten  minutes  begin  to  try  it ;  have  a  bowl  of  water, 
snow,  or  piece  of  ice  near,  and  drop  the  syrup  from  the  end  of  the 
spoon.  While  it  falls  to  the  bottom  and  you  can  make  it  into  a  sottish 
ball,  it  is  ready  to  take  off ;  if  allowed  to  stay  on  until  it  snaps  it  will  be 
too  hard.  If  this  is  the  case,  add  a  little  water  and  boil  again,  being 
sure  this  time  not  to  let  it  get  too  brittle.  A  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar  is 
useful  in  checking  a  tendency  for  the  syrup  to  go  to  sugar.  When  the 
sugar  is  boiled  just  right,  set  off  to  cool,  and  when  you  can  bear  your 
finger  in  it  pull  into  sticks,  or  into  one  solid  mass  like  that  bought  at  the 
confectioners.  Flat  sticks  are  formed  by  pouring  the  candy  into  long, 
flat  pans,  and  when  cooling,  crease  the  mass,  which  will  readily  break 
into  sticks  when  cold.  If  the  hands  are  slightly  greased  the  candy  will 
not  stick  to  the  hands. 

In  making  molasses  candy,  get  the  best  molasses  (not  syrup)  and  add 
to  a  quart  of  molasses  one  pound  of  white  sugar.  The  sugar  makes  it 
whiter  and  more  brittle.  Boil  this  until  it  will  snap  like  glass,  when 
dropped  into  water,  and  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  and  a  pinch 
of  soda ;  stir  well  in,  as  the  soda  whitens  the  candy,  and  the  vinegar 
checks  a  tendency  to  graining.  Remove  from  the  stove,  cool  a  moment 
and  pour  into  greased  platters.  Set  out  to  cool,  and  with  a  knife  keep 
the  edges  turned  in  so  that  all  will  be  cool  and  ready  to  pull  at  the  same 
time.  When  making  nut  candies,  use  the  same  mixture  before  it  gets 
quite  to  the  brittle  point ;  have  the  meats  in  shallow  tins  and  pour  the 
candy  over  them.  Before  quite  cold,  slash  with  the  knife  so  that  it  will 
break  into  oblong  pieces  or  squares. 


446  CONFEC  TIONER  V. 

In  making  macaroons  or  kisses,  use  washed  butter  for  greasing  the 
tins,  as  salted  butter  or  lard  gives  an  unpleasant  taste.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven,  or  let  dry  two  hours  in  a  cool  oven.  Greased  writing  paper 
is  often  used  by  some  for  baking  them  on,  instead  of  tins.  After  butter- 
ing, sprinkle  lightly  with  flour,  brush  off,  and  put  on  the  macaroons  or 
kisses.  When  powdered  almonds  are  to  be  used  they  should  be  thor- 
oughly dried  in  an  open  oven,  after  blanching,  and  then  they  will  pul- 
verize more  easily. 

COCOANUT  CARAMELS. 

Two  cups  of  grated  cocoanut,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  tatlespoonfuls 
of  flour,  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff ;  bake  on  a  buttered  paper 
in  a  quick  oven. 

COCOANUT  CANDY. 

Four  cups  of  water,  two  and  a  half  cups  tine  white  sugar,  four  spoon- 
fuls vinegar,  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg ;  boil  till  thick,  about 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Just  before  removing,  stir  in  one  cup  dessi- 
cated  cocoanut  and  lay  in  small  flat  cakes  on  buttered  plates  to  cool 
and  harden. 

BOSTON    CARAMELS. 

One  pint  bowl  of  grated  chocolate,  two  bowls  of  yellow  sugar, 
one  bowl  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg  and  vanilla  flavor ;  boil  about  twenty- 
five  minutes ;  this  should  not  be  so  brittle  as  other  candies.  Pour  in 
buttered  tins  and  mark  deeply  with  a  knife. 

LEMON  DROPS. 

Upon  half  a  pound  of  finely  powdered  sugar,  pour  just  enough  lemon 
juice  to  dissolve  it,  and  boil  to  the  consistency  of  thick  syrup ;  drop  this 
on  plates  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  harden. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  DROPS. 

Mix  one-half  cup  of  cream  with  two  of  white  sugar,  boil  and  stir  full 
five  minutes ;  set  the  dish  into  another  of  cold  water  and  stir  until  it 
becomes  hard.  Then  make  into  small  balls  about  the  size  of  marbles 
and  with  a  fork  roll  each  one  separately  in  the  chocolate,  which  has  in 
the  meantime  been  put  in  a  bowl  over  the  boiling  tea-kettle  and  melted ; 
put  on  brown  paper  to  cool ;  flavor  with  vanilla  if  desired.  This  amount 
makes  about  fifty  drops. 

MOLASSES  CANDY. 

Into  a  kettle  holding  at  least  four  times  the  amount  of  molasses  to  be 
used,  pour  a  convenient  quantity  of  Porto  Rico  molasses ;  place  over  a 
slow  fire  and  boil  for  a  half  hour,  stirring  all  the  time,  to  diminish  as 


CONFECTIONERY,  447 

much  as  possible  the  increase  of  bulk  caused  by  boiling,  and  checking 
the  fire  or  removing  the  kettle  if  there  is  any  danger  of  the  contents 
running  over.  Be  very  careful  not  to  let  the  candy  burn,  especially  near 
the  close  of  the  boiling.  When  a  little,  dropped  in  cold  water,  becomes 
quickly  hard  and  snaps  apart  like  a  pipestem,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  car- 
bonate of  soda,  free  from  lumps,  to  every  tv^o  quarts ;  stir  quickly  to 
mix,  and  pour  on  greased  platters  to  cool.  When  the  candy  is  suffi- 
ciently cool  to  handle  without  burning  the  hands,  it  is  pulled  back  and 
forth,  the  hands  being  rubbed  with  a  little  butter  (do  not  use  flour)  to 
prevent  the  candy  from  sticking  to  them.  The  more  the  candy  is 
worked,  the  lighter  it  will  be  in  color. 

WALNUT    CANDY. 

The  meats  of  hickory  nuts,  English  walnuts,  or  black  walnuts  may  be 
used  according  to  preference  in  that  regard.  After  removal  from  the 
shells  in  as  large  pieces  as  practicable,  they  are  to  be  placed  on  the  bot- 
toms of  tins,  previously  greased,  to  the  depth  of  about  a  half  inch. 
Next,  boil  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  a  half  pint  of  water  and  one  gill  of 
good  molasses  until  a  portion  of  the  mass  hardens  when  cooled.  Pour 
the  hot  candy  on  the  meats  and  allow  it  to  remain  until  hard. 

PEANUT  CANDY. 

Prepare  the  meats  by  removing  the  thin  reddish  skin  in  which  they 
are  enveloped,  and  fill  a  tin  tray  to  the  depth  of  about  an  inch.  Pour 
over  them  the  hot  candy  as  above  directed,  stirring  the  meats  that  each 
one  may  be  covered.  A  little  less  candy  should  be  used  than  will  suffice 
to  entirely  cover  the  mass  of  meats,  though  each  separate  one  should  be 
coated,  the  object  being  to  use  just  enough  of  the  candy  to  cause  the 
meats  to  adhere  firmly  to  each  other,  thus  forming  a  large  cake,  which 
when  nearly  cold  may  be  divided  in  squares  or  bars  with  a  sharp  knife. 
Almonds,  deprived  of  their  skins,  or  the  meats  of  any  nuts  may  be  used 
in  a  similar  manner. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

Boil  one  quart  of  good  New  Orleans  molasses  until  it  hardens,  when 
tested  by  cooling  a  httle  of  it  in  water  as  before  described.  Just  before 
removal  from  the  fire,  add  four  ounces  of  chocolate  finely  and  uniformly 
grated.  Pour  a  thin  layer  into  tin  trays  slightly  greased,  and  when  the 
surface  of  the  candy  has  become  hardened  a  little,  mark  with  a  knife 
into  squares.  These  may  be  flavored,  but  the  natural  flavor  of  the  choco- 
late and  molasses  is  generally  preferred  without  addition. 

NICODEMUS  POP-CORN. 
Put  into  an  iron  kettle  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  three  of  water  and 
one  teacup  of  white  sugar  (pulverized  is   best)  ;   boil   until   ready  to 


448  CONFEC  TIONER  V. 

candy ;  then  throw  in  three  quarts  of  corn,  nicely  popped  ;  stir  briskly 
until  the  candy  is  evenly  distributed  over  the  corn ;  set  the  kettle  from 
the  fire ;  stir  until  it  is  cooled  a  little  and  you  have  each  grain  separate 
and  crystallized  with  the  sugar ;  care  should  be  taken  not  to  have  too 
hot  a  fire,  lest  you  scorch  the  corn  when  crystallizing.  Nuts  of  any  kind 
prepared  this  way  are  delicious. 

POP-CORN  BALLS. 

Add  one  ounce  of  white  gum  arable  to  a  half  pint  of  water  and  let  it 
stand  until  dissolved.  Strain,  add  one  pound  of  refined  sugar  and  boil 
until  when  cooled  it  becomes  very  thick,  so  much  so  as  to  be  stirred 
with  difficulty.  To  ascertain  when  it  has  reached  this  point,  a  little  may 
be  cooled  in  a  saucer.  A  convenient  quantity  of  the  freshly-popped 
corn  having  been  placed  in  a  milk-pan,  enough  of  the  warm  syrup  candy 
is  poured  on  and  mixed  by  stirring,  to  cause  the  kernels  to  adhere  in  a 
mass,  portions  of  which  may  be  formed  into  balls  by  pressing  them  into 
the  proper  shape  with  the  hands.  Ordinary  molasses,  or  sugarhouse 
syrup  may  be  used  as  well,  by  being  boiled  to  the  same  degree,  no  gum 
being  necessary  with  these  materials.  Corn  cake  is  prepared  in  a  simi- 
lar manner.  This  mass,  while  warm,  is  put  into  tins  and  pressed  by 
rollers  into  thin  sheets,  which  are  afterwards  divided  into  small,  square 
cakes. 

HOREHOUND  CANDY. 

Prepare  a  strong  decoction,  by  boiling  two  ounces  of  the  dried  herb 
in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water  for  about  half  an  hour ;  strain  this,  and  add 
three  and  one-half  pounds  of  brown  sugar;  boil  over  a  hot  fire  until  it 
reaches  the  requisite  degree  of  hardness,  when  it  may  be  poured  out  in 
fiat  tin  trays,  previously  well  greased,  and  marked  into  sticks  or  squares 
with  a  knife,  as  it  becomes  cool  enough  to  retain  its  shape. 

VINEGAR  CANDY 

To  one  quart  of  good  New  Orleans  molasses,  add  one  teacup  of 
good  cider  vinegar ;  boil  until  it  reaches  the  point  where  a  little  dropped 
into  cold  water  becomes  very  hard  and  brittle.  Pour  into  shallow  plat- 
ters until  cool  enough  to  be  handled,  and  form  into  a  large  roll,  which 
may  be  drawn  down  to  any  size  and  cut  off  in  sticks. 

LEMON   AND  PEPPERMINT  DROPS. 

Take  of  dry  granulated  sugar  a  convenient  quantity ;  place  it  in  a 
saucepan  having  a  lip  from  which  the  contents  may  be  poured  or 
dropped.  Add  a  very  little  water,  just  enough  to  make  with  the  sugar 
a  stiff  paste ;  two  ounces  of  water  to  a  pound  of  sugar  is  about  the  right 
proportion.     Set  it  over  the  fire  and  allow  it  to  nearly  boil,  keeping  it 


CONFECTIONERY.  449 

continually  stirred.  It  must  not  actually  come  to  a  full  boil,  but  must 
be  removed  from  the  fire  just  as  soon  as  the  bubbles  denoting  that  the 
boiling  point  is  reached  begin  to  rise.  Allow  the  syrup  to  cool  a  little, 
stirring  all  the  time ;  add  strong  essence  of  peppermint  or  lemon  to  suit 
the  taste,  and  drop  on  tins  or  sheets  of  smooth  white  paper.  The  drop- 
ping is  performed  by  tilting  the  vessel  slightly,  so  that  the  contents  will 
run  out,  and  with  a  small  piece  of  stiff  wire  the  drops  may  be  stroked 
off  on  to  the  tins  or  paper.  They  should  be  kept  in  a  warm  place  for  a 
few  hours  to  dry.  In  the  season  of  fruits  delicious  drops  may  be  made 
by  substituting  the  juice  of  fresh  fruits,  as  strawberry,  raspberry,  lemon, 
pineapple  or  banana,  or  any  of  these  essences  may  be  used. 

SUGAR  CANDY. 

Six  cups  sugar,  one  of  vinegar,  one  of  water,  one  spoonful  of  butter  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water.  Boil  altogether 
without  stirring.  When  it  becomes  hard,  not  brittle,  by  dropping  a  little 
into  cold  water,  flavor  with  lemon,  wintergreen  or  peppermint  and  turn 
out  on  buttered  plates  to  cool.  It  is  nice  "  pulled  "  or  left  on  the  plate 
and  cut  in  squares. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  a  pinch 
of  soda ;  try  by  wetting  the  finger  in  water,  then  plunging  it  into  the 
candy  and  again  into  the  water. 

CORN  STARCH  CANDY. 

A  cup  of  water  to  a  cup  of  sugar ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  corn  starch  to 
a  cup  of  water ;  set  the  sugar  and  water  on  the  fire  to  boil ;  do  not  stir 
after  it  begins  to  boil ;  dissolve  the  corn  starch  in  a  little  water,  and 
when  the  candy  will  harden  in  water,  put  in  the  corn  starch,  stirring 
rapidly ;  when  done,  pour  out  in  a  pan,  add  flavoring  and  pull. 

CREAM  CANDY. 

One  coffeecup  of  white  sugar,  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water, 
enough  to  make  it  dissolve  nicely  as  it  heats ;  boil  without  stirring,  in  a 
bright  tin  pan,  until  it  will  crisp  in  water,  like  molasses  candy.  Just 
before  it  is  done  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  extract  of  vanilla  and  a  quarter 
of  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  When  sufficiently  done  pour  into 
a  buttered  pan,  and  when  cool  enough  to  handle  work  it  as  you  would 
molasses  candy,  until  it  is  perfectly  white — then  stretch  and  lay  on  a 
marble  slab,  or  if  you  have  to  use  the  molding  board,  put  buttered  papers 
over  it,  and  with  a  chopping  knife  cut  it  into  mouthfuls  and  set  it  away 
29 


450  CONFECTIONERY. 

until  it  creams,  which  it  will  do  as  it  dries  out.  If  it  grains  before  it  is 
done,  or  before  you  have  a  chance  to  pull  it,  put  it  back  into  the  pan, 
and  pour  water  on  it  and  boil  it  over  again. 

FIG   CANDY. 

Take  one  pound  of  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  water,  and  set 
on  the  stove,  boil  slowly  about  twenty  or  thirty  minutes ;  you  can  tell 
whether  it  is  done  or  not  by  dropping  a  little  into  cold  water ;  if  it  is 
hard,  it  is  boiled  enough.  If  desirable  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  can  be 
added  ;  put  in  a  lump  of  butter,  and  pour  into  buttered  pans  in  which 
slices  of  figs  are  laid  and  shoes  on  top  also. 

TAFFY. 

Quarter  pound  of  butter ;  when  melted  put  in  one  pound  of  brown 
sugar;  boil  and  stir  fifteen  mmutes ;  put  in  a  spoonful  of  ground  ginger, 
boil  and  stir  again.     Pour  into  buttered  tins. 

OLD-FASHIONED  MOLASSES  CANDY. 

One  quart  of  best  New  Orleans  molasses,  piece  of  butter  half  the  size 
of  a  hen's  ^gg.  When  it  will  snap  in  water  it  is  sufficiently  done  ;  stir 
in  a  little  soda  to  whiten  it ;  pour  into  buttered  dishes,  and  when  cool 
enough  pull  until  white. 

CHOCOLATE  KISSES. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  chocolate  pounded  together  and 
finely  sifted  ;  mix  with  the  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten  to  a  froth ;  drop 
on  buttered  paper  and  bake  slowly. 

WHITE  CANDY. 

Take  one  quart  of  granulated  sugar,  one  pint  of  water,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar;  boil  as  you  do  molasses  candy,  but  do  not  stir  it. 
You  can  tell  when  it  is  done  by  tr^nng  it  in  cold  water.  Pull  it ;  have  a 
dish  near  by  with  some  vanilla  in  it,  and  work  in  enough  to  flavor  it  as 
you  pull ;  put  it  in  a  cold  room  and  the  next  day  you  will  have  delicious 
candy. 


CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS.  451 


CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS. 

CHOCOLATE   CREAM. 

One-half  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  and  one  cup  of  water;  boil 
together ;  add  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  let  that  boil ;  then  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch,  dissolved  in  a  little  milk;  sweeten 
very  sweet,  and  when  cold,  flavor  with  vanilla. 

CALEDONIAN   CREAM. 

Two  ounces  of  raspberry  jam  or  jelly,  two  ounces  of  red  currant  jelly, 
two  ounces  of  sifted  loaf  sugar,  the  whites  of  two  eggs  put  into  a  bowl 
and  beaten  with  a  spoon  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  This  makes  a 
very  pretty  cream,  and  is  good  and  economical. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

One  pint  of  milk,  three  ounces  sugar,  half  ounce  gelatine,  two  eggs ; 
beat  the  yolks  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk ;  dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a 
little  hot  water ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  separately  and  stir  in  when 
cool ;  cream  is  better  whipped ;  flavor  to  taste  and  theii  put  in  molds. 

SNOW  CREAM. 

Allow  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  white  sugar  and  two  of  rich,  sweet 
cream  to  each  person  for  whom  you  are  making  the  dessert.  Then  get 
a  quantity  of  fine,  dry  snow  and  stir  in ;  after  waiting  a  minute  stir  in 
more — adding  enough  to  make  of  sufficient  stiffness.  Flavor  to  suit 
the  taste.  It  does  not  require  more  than  two  minutes  to  make,  and 
should  not  be  made  until  needed,  as  it  soon  melts. 

ROCK  CREAM. 

Boil  a  teacup  of  the  best  rice  till  quite  soft  in  new  milk,  sweetened 
with  powdered  loaf  sugar,  and  pile  it  upon  a  dish  ;  lay  on  it,  in  differ- 
ent places,  square  lumps  of  either  currant  jelly  or  preserved  fruit  of  any 
kind ;  beat  up  the  whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  a  little 
powdered  sugar,  and  flavor  with  either  orange-fiower  water  or  vanilla ; 
add  to  this,  when  beaten  very  stiff,  about  a  tatalespoonful  of  rich  crea|Ti, 
and  drop  it  over  the  rice,  giving  it  the  form  of  a  rock  of  snow.  This 
will  be  found  to  be  a  very  ornamental  as  well  as  delicious  dish  for  a 
supper  table. 

COFFEE  CREAM. 

Half  an  ounce  of  gelatine,  one  gill  of  strong  coffee,  one  gill  of  sugar, 
three  gills  of  cream  ;  soak  the  gelatine  half  an  hour  in  half  a  gill  of  cold 


452  CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS, 

water,  then  place  it  over  boiling  water  and  add  the  hot  coffee  and 
sugar ;  when  dissolved  take  it  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  cold  cream  and 
strain  it  in  a  mold  that  has  been  wet  with  cold  water ;  when  cold  turn 
out. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Mix  a  plateful  of  whipped  cream  (flavored  with  vanilla),  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs  and  pulverized  sugar  to  taste  all  together ;  pile  a 
bank  of  this  mixture  in  the  center  of  a  platter  and  form  a  circle  of  little 
fruit  puddings  (steamed  in  cups)  around  it,  or  it  is  nice  for  corn  starch, 
blanc  manges,  etc. 

RUSSIAN   CREAM. 

Two-thirds  of  a  package  of  gelatine,  four  eggs,  two-thirds  of  a  cup 
of  sugar,  one  quart  of  milk ;  cover  the  gelatine  with  water  and  let 
it  stand  one  hour ;  heat  the  milk  to  a  boiling  point,  then  stir  in  the  gela- 
tine, and  when  well  stirred  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten  with 
sugar,  stirring  briskly  to  avoid  the  formation  of  lumps.  Cook  two  or 
three  minutes,  then  set  it  off  and  stir  in  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth  ;  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon  before  putting  in  the  whites 
of  the  eggs.  Put  into  molds  and  set  away  to  cool.  This  is  a  most  pal- 
atable dish  and  an  excellent  substitute  for  ice  cream. 

SPANISH   CREAM. 

Take  half  a  box,  or  a  little  more,  of  gelatine ;  let  it  stand  in  a  pint  of 
milk  one  hour ;  then  put  a  quart  of  milk  to  boil ;  beat  the  whites  of  six 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  leave  them  in  a  deep  bowl ;  beat  the  six  yolks 
very  light,  with  sugar  to  taste ;  when  the  milk  has  boiled  stir  in  the 
yolks  and  sugar,  milk  and  gelatine ;  after  it  comes  to  a  boil  the  second 
time,  take  it  off  and  pour  immediately  over  the  stiff  whites  in  the  bowl ; 
flavor  with  vanilla ;  wet  your  mold  with  cold  water ;  pour  in  and  set 
away  to  congeal.     To  be  eaten  with  or  without  cream. 

DEVONSHIRE  OR  SCALDED  CREAM. 

Place  the  morning  milk  in  shallow  tin  pans  ;  set  this  by  for  the  cream 
to  rise  until  next  milking  time.  Then  place  them  over  the  fire,  on  iron 
pots  filled  with  scalding  water.  When  the  scum  rises  it  is  done,  for  it 
must  not  boil,  only  scald.  Put  the  pans  of  milk  back  in  the  milk-house 
uri|il  the  next  morning,  then  remove  the  cream.  Butter  will  come  much 
quicker  from  this  cream.  It  is  very  good  spread  on  bread  like  butter; 
eaten  on  fruit,  or  pie,  it  is  delicious.  In  London  it  is  sold  in  tin  cans,  air 
tight. 

ROYAL  SPANISH  CREAM. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  rice,  the  peel  of  a  large  lemon,  grated, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one 


CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS.  453 

ounce  of  sweet  almonds,  one  ounce  of  preserved  orange  or  citron. 
Mode — Beat  the  eggs  well  first  and,  after  mixing  all  the  ingredients 
except  the  almonds  and  preserved  orange  or  citron,  put  them  into  a 
stew  pan  and  set  on  a  very  slow  fire,  stirring  the  mixture  one  way  until 
it  becomes  thicker  than  custard,  then  pour  it  into  a  glass  dish,  and 
ornament  it  with  the  almonds  and  citron  cut  into  strips  and  slices ;  the 
almonds  must  of  course,  be  blanched  before  they  are  placed  on  the 
cream. 

SNOW  CREAM. 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  flavoring  and  rose  water ; 
beat  the  whole  together ;  then  add  a  pint  of  thick  cream.  This  is  very 
nice  for  plain  boiled  rice. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  to  soak  in  cold  water ;  set  it  on  the 
stove,  and,  when  thoroughly  dissolved,  pour  in  a  quart  of  milk.  When 
this  begins  to  boil,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  with  a  cup 
of  sugar.  When  this  boils,  stir  in  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth* 
and  take  it  immediately  from  the  fire.     Flavor  to  taste. 

LEMON  CREAM. 

Take  a  pint  of  thick  sweet  cream,  and  put  to  it  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
well  beaten,  four  ounces  of  fine  sugar,  and  thin  rind  of  one  lemon  ;  boil 
it  up ;  then  stir  it  till  almost  cold ;  put  the  juice  of  a  lemon  in  a  dish  or 
bowl,  and  pour  the  cream  upon  it,  stirring  it  till  quite  cold. 

TO  WHIP  CREAM. 

Sweeten  a  bowl  of  cream  with  loaf  sugar,  and  flavor  to  taste ;  set 
another  bowl  near  the  above  with  a  sieve  ovar  it ;  then  whip  the  cream 
with  a  whisk,  and  as  it  rises  in  a  froth  take  it  off  with  a  skimmer  and 
put  it  into  the  sieve  to  drain ;  whip  also  the  cream  which  drains  off  and 
when  done  ornament  with  lemon  raspings. 

APPLE  CREAM. 

One  cup  thick  cream,  one  cup  of  sugar ;  beat  till  very  smooth ;  beat 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  add  ;  stew  apples  in  water  till  soft ;  take 
them  from  the  water  with  a  fork.  Pour  the  cream  over  the  apples  when 
cold. 

ROYAL   CREAM. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one-third  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  three  eggs,  vanilla ;  put  the  gelatine  into  the  milk,  and  let  it 


454  CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS. 

stand  half  an  hour ;  beat  the  yolks  well  with  the  sugar,  and  stir  into  the 
milk  ;  set  the  kettle  into  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  stir  until  it  begins  to 
thicken  like  soft  custard. 

AMBER  CREAM. 

To  one  pint  of  boiled  milk  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten, 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar;  let  the  milk  stand  a  few  min- 
utes before  putting  in  the  eggs. 

BOILED  CUSTARD. 

Put  two  quarts  of  fresh  milk  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  come  nearly  to  a 
boil ;  while  it  is  on  the  fire  beat  well  together  five  eggs,  with  five  and  a 
half  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  ;  pour  it  into  the  milk  while  on  the  fire,  and 
stir  as  you  pour  in;  continue  to  stir,  tasting  occasionally,  and  as 
soon  as  it  has  lost  the  raw  taste  of  the  t.gg,  it  is  done,  and  must  be 
taken  off  immediately,  but  do  not  stop  stirring,  not  even  after  you  have 
set  it  on  the  table,  where  you  must  let  it  set  a  few  minutes  before  pour- 
ing it  out ;  always  stir  one  way,  or  your  milk  will  curdle. 

APPLE   CUSTARD. 

One  quart  of  apples  mashed  fine,  four  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  half 
cup  butter;  beat  well ;  take  whites  of  two  of  the  eggs,  beat  with  sugar; 
spread  over  the  tops  and  place  in  the  oven  again. 

CUSTARD  TO  POUR  OVER  FRUIT  SHORTCAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  corn  starch,  one  ^^%  and  one  pint 
of  milk.     Flavor  and  cook  as  custard. 

RASPBERRY  CUSTARD. 

Take  three  gills  of  raspberry  juice  and  dissolve  in  it  a  pound  of  white 
sugar,  mix  with  a  pint  of  boiling  cream,  stir  until  quite  thick,  and  serve 
in  custard  glasses. 

STANDING  CUSTARD. 

Boil  together  and  strain  half  a  pint  of  new  milk,  one-quarter  of  a 
pound  sugar,  one-half  ounce  isinglass,  and  thicken  with  the  beaten 
yolks  of  four  eggs ;  stir  it  until  it  is  almost  cold ;  put  in  a  mold  and 
keep  it  in  water  until  quite  cold,  then  turn  out. 

SNOW  CUSTARD. 

Beat  eight  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  four ;  add  to  them  one 
quart  of  milk  and  five  ounces  of  sugar ;  have  a  shallow  pan  of  hot  water 
in  the  oven ;  set  the  dish  into  it,  and  bake  till  the  custard  is  thick ;  then 


CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS.  465 

set  away  to  cool ;  beat  the  remaining  whites  very  light ;  add  half  a 
pound  of  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice ;  when  the  custard  is 
cold  lay  the  whites  over  the  top  in  heaps,  but  do  not  let  thein  touch. 

VANILLA  CREAM  FOR  PUDDING.. 

Scald  one-half  pint  of  rich  milk  or  cream ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  two 
well  beaten  eggs  and  one-half  pint  of  sugar ;  stir  until  it  is  as  thick  as 
boiled  custard.  When  cool  flavor  with  vanilla.  Just  before  serving  add 
the  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  gently  stir  in  the  sauce. 

GERMAN  FOAM  SAUCE. 

Select  a  German  pudding  dish  with  dasher ;  into  this  put  the  yolks  of 
five  eggs,  fill  half  an  egg  shell  five  times  with  white  wine,  add  lemon 
peel  and  sweeten  to  taste ;  stir  to  a  foam  by  placing  the  handle  of 
dasher  between  the  hands  and  rolling  it  to  and  fro;  then  place 
over  the  heater  till  it  boils,  stirring  constantly ;  to  be  prime  it  should  be 
prepared  after  the  dinner  is  served  ;  there  should  be  nothing  but  foam. 

FRENCH  HONEY. 

White  sugar  one  pound,  six  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  two,  the 
juice  of  three  or  four  lemons  and  the  grated  rind  of  two,  quarter  pound 
of  butter ;  stir  over  a  slow  fire  until  about  the  consistency  of  honey. 

RICE  BLANC  MANGE. 

Mix  four  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  flour  in  a  little  cold  water,  add  a  pinch 
of  salt,  stir  this  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  and  boil  and  stir  for  ten 
minutes ;  when  partly  cool  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a 
froth,  and  cook  again  until  almost  boiling,  then  turn  into  a  wet  mold. 
Serve  with  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  to  the  taste.  Farina  or 
arrowroot  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way,  omitting  the  eggs  and 
second  boiling. 

FLOATING  ISLAND. 

Set  a  quart  of  milk  to  boil,  then  stir  into  it  the  beaten  yolks  of  six 
€ggs  :  flavor  with  any  extract  liked  and  sweeten  to  taste ;  whip  whites 
•of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  When  the  custard  is  thick  put  into  a  deep  dish 
and  heap  the  frothed  eggs  upon  it.     Serve  cold. 

NEW  YEAR'S  BLANC  MANGE. 

Take  one  quarter  of  a  box  of  gelatine  or  isinglass ;  dissolve  it  in 
half  a  pint  of  cold  water  over  the  steam  of  a  tea-kettle ;  take  a  pint 
of  rich  cream  and  whip  it  to  a  stiff  froth ;  then  take  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  and  also  beat  these  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  sweeten  with  powdered 
sugar  to  suit  the  taste;  grate  one  cake  of  vanilla  chocolate;   strain 


456  DRINKS. 

gelatine  through  a  fine  cloth  or  wire  sieve ;  beat  all  well  together. 
Make  two  separate  parts  of  the  blanc  mange,  coloring  one  with  white 
or  pink  sugar,  and  the  other  with  chocolate.  Commence  laying  this 
alternately  in  the  molds,  the  first  layer  of  the  pink  mixture  and  the  last 
of  the  chocolate.  This  will  make  a  very  pretty  dish  for  a  New  Year's 
dinner  if  ornamented  with  lady  fingers  or  kisses. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Boil  in  half  a  pint  of  rich  milk  a  large  vanilla  bean  till  the  milk  is 
highly  flavored  ;  strain  through  a  fine  strainer ;  mix  with  this  strained 
milk  half  a  pint  of  rich  cream,  and  add  five  eggs  well  beaten  and 
strained.  Let  this  custard  boil,  but  not  curdle.  It  must  be  like  any 
boiled  soft  custard.  Set  it  on  ice.  Have  ready  in  another  saucepan 
one  ounce  best  isinglass  boiled  in  half  a  pint  of  water  till  it  is  a  thick 
jelly.  When  both  are  cold,  but  not  hard,  mix  together  and  add  four 
tablespoonf uls  sugar ;  add  the  yellow  rind  of  two  large  lemons ;  add 
the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  one  pint  of  rich  cream  that  has  been 
whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Then  set  it  on  the  ice ;  cover  the  bottom  of 
an  oval  dish  with  slices  of  sponge  cake ;  slice  enough  to  put  all  round 
the  sides  of  the  dish,  putting  white  of  eggs  between  them  to  make  them 
stick  together.  Fill  this  full  of  the  custard  mixture,  and  put  the  sponge 
cake  on  top  to  cover  it,  using  whites  of  eggs  to  make  it  adhere.  Make 
a  nice  icing  for  the  top. 


DRINKS. 

COFFEE,  TEA  AND  CHOCOLATE. 

CofTee  is  more  heating  and  stimulating  than  tea.  The  former  excites 
the  pulse,  the  latter  quiets  it.  Coffee  may  act  as  a  laxative ;  tea  dimin- 
ishes the  action  of  the  bowels  and  promotes  perspiration.  Coffee  may 
produce  headache ;  tea  frequently  relieves  it.  Both  have  power  to 
sustain  under  fatigue  and  privation,  coffee  being  particularly  active  in 
this  direction.  Hunger  is  better  borne  by  their  aid.  Tea  disposes  to 
mental  cheerfulness  and  activity,  clears  the  brain,  and  diminishes  the 
tendency  to  sleep.  Coffee  produces  simple  wakefulness.  If  used  to 
excess,  they  both  produce  tremor,  palpitation,  anxiety,  and  deranged 
vision,  and  seriously  impair  digestion.  Coffee  is  heating  in  warm 
weather  and  warming  in  cold.  They  are  both  to  be  recommended, 
because  they  introduce  a  part  of  the  necessary  amount  of  water  needed^ 
because  they  act  as  gentle  stimulants,  and  because  the  milk  and  sugar 
added  to  make  them  agreeable,  furnishes  nutriment  to  the  body. 

Cocoa  possesses  in  a  milder  degree  the  properties  of  tea  or  coffee,  but 
it  differs  from  them  in  possessing  much  higher  nutritive  powers. 


COFFEE,   TEA  AND  CHOCOLATE.  457 

With  regard  to  the  quality  of  coffee,  the  best  is  the  cheapest.  Burn 
it  at  home,  in  small  quantities,  taking  care  in  using  a  close  roaster,  never 
to  fill  it  more  than  half.  Turn  the  roaster,  slowly  at  first,  more  rapidly 
as  the  process  advances,  keeping  up  a  lively  fire.  Burn  it  until  of  a  light 
chestnut  color.  Keep  it  in  close  canisters  or  bottles.  Grind  it  as 
wanted.  Boil  it  in  a  vessel  only  half  full,  to  prevent  boiling  over,  in 
proportion  of  one  and  a  half  ounces  to  a  pint  of  water.  Put  in  a  few 
hartshorn  shavings  or  isinglass,  if  you  will,  but  if  the  coffee  is  taken  off 
the  fire  while  boiling,  and  set  on  again,  alternately,  until  nothing  remains 
on  the  top  but  a  clear  bubble,  and  then  some  poured  out  to  clear  the 
pipe  and  poured  back  again,  it  will  be  as  fine  as  if  cleared  artificially. 
Long  boiling  does  not  make  coffee  stronger,  but  destroys  its  color  and 
makes  it  turbid.  In  making  coffee  the  broader  the  bottom  of  the  pot 
and  the  smaller  the  top  the  better  it  will  prove. 

Various  are  the  methods  of  preparing  this  "  beverage  of  Arabia ;" 
but  it  will  be  found,  after  all,  that  there  is  no  surer  way  of  having  coffee 
clear  and  strong  than  by  pursuing  the  plan  here  given  :  Beat  up  an  Q.gg 
(two  for  a  large  pot)  and  mix  it  well  with  the  coffee  till  you  have  formed 
a  ball ;  fill  the  pot  with  cold  water,  allowing  room  enough  to  put  in  the 
ingredients  ;  let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  an  hour,  but  do  not  think  of 
stirring  it,  on  any  account.  Just  before  it  is  required,  put  the  pot  on 
the  fire  and  warm  it  well ;  but,  as  you  value  the  true  aroma,  take  care 
that  it  does  not  boil.  Pour  off  gently,  and  you  will  have  as  pure  and  as 
strong  an  extract  of  the  Indian  berry  as  you  can  desire.  Use  white 
sugar  candy,  in  powder,  in  preference  to  sugar.  Cream,  if  attainable ; 
if  not,  boiled  milk. 

A  celebrated  cook  gives  this  receipt  for  making  a  good  cup  of  coffee : 
Use  Java  and  Mocha  mixed.  For  each  tablespoonful  of  coffee  use 
nearly  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Beat  the  coffee  up  with  the  white  of  an 
egg  and  half  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water.  Pour  the  boiling  water 
over  this  and  allow  it  to  boil  once.  Take  it  from  the  fire  and  then 
replace  long  enough  to  come  to  the  boiling  point. 

A  Frenchman  roasts  coffee,  grinds  it  to  a  flour,  moistens  it  slightly, 
mixes  it  with  twice  its  weight  of  sugar,  and  then  presses  it  into  tablets. 
One  of  these  tablets  can  be  dissolved  at  any  time. 

Be  careful  in  the  choice  of  coffee  pot  and  keep  it  clean.  A  carelessly 
kept  coffee  pot  will  impart  a  rank  flavor  to  the  strongest  infusion  of  the 
best  Java.  Wash  the  coffee  pot  thoroughly  every  day  and  twice  a  week 
boil  borax  and  water  in  it  for  fifteen  minutes. 

GOOD  COFFEE. 

Put  a  quart  of  boiling  water  into  the  coffee  pot,  wet  up  a  cup  of 
ground  coffee  with  the  white  of  an  ^gg,  add  the  eggshell  and  a  Httle 
cold  water;  put  this  into  the  boiling  hot  water  and  boil  fast  ten  min- 


458  DRINKS. 

utes  ;  then  add  a  half  cup  cold  water  and  set  it  before  the  hearth  or 
table  to  settle  for  five  minutes ;  pour  it  off  carefully  into  the  metal  or 
china  coffee  pot  or  urn. 

VIENNA   COFFEE. 

With  very  Httle  extra  trouble  mornings  coffee  can  be  greatly  improved. 
Beat  the  white  of  an  tgg  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
whipped  cream  and  use  in  coffee  instead  of  cream ;  put  in  cream  first, 
then  coffee  and  lastly  this  mixture. 

IMPERIAL  COFFEE. 

If  intended  for  two  persons,  take  four  rounding  teaspoonfuls  of  coffee 

tied  up  in  a  piece  of  Swiss  muslin  (leave  plenty  of  room  for  expansion) ; 
pour  on  two  cups  of  bubbling,  boiling  water,  cover  close  and  set  back 
on  the  range  about  ten  minutes.  Break  one  tgg  in  a  large  coffee  cup, 
give  it  a  good  whip  with  an  egg-beater,  divide  it  half  in  each  cup, 
add  the  usual  quantity  of  sugar,  pour  on  the  hot  coffee,  add  warm  milk 
and  one  spoonful  of  cream,  and  with  the  golden  foam  standing  one  inch 
above  the  rim  of  the  cup  you  will  think  it  too  pretty  to  drink,  and  when 
you  taste  it  will  think  you  never  knew  how  good  coffee  was  before. 

ICED    COFFEE. 

Make  more  coffee  than  usual  at  breakfast  time  and  stronger.  Add 
one-third  as  much  hot  milk  as  you  have  coffee  and  set  away.  When 
cold,  put  upon  ice.     Serve  as  dessert,  with  cracked  ice  in  each  tumbler. 

CHOCOLATE.       • 

Put  into  a  coffee  pot  set  in  boiling  water,  one  quart  of  new  milk  (or  a 
pint  each  of  cream  and  milk) ;  stir  into  it  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
of  grated  chocolate  mixed  to  a  paste  with  cold  milk  ;  let  boil  two  or 
three  minutes  and  serve  at  once.  If  not  wanted  so  rich  use  half  water 
and  half  milk. 

VIENNA   CHOCOLATE. 

Melt  four  ounces  of  grated  chocolate  over  a  boiling  kettle,  add  gradu- 
ally three  cups  of  boiling  water  and  one  ounce  of  sugar.  Set  it  upon 
the  fire,  and  when  scalding  hot  pour  it  upon  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  well 
beaten,  with  one  and  one-half  gills  of  cold  water ;  add  a  pinch  of  cinna- 
mon, and  return  it  to  the  fire  for  a  few  moments  to  cook  the  egg.  It 
must  not  boil,  but  should  be  beaten  with  an  egg-beater  or  milled  all  the 
lime.     Serve  very  hot. 

FRENCH  CHOCOLATE. 

Place  a  square  in  a  cup,  and  pour  upon  it  enough  boiling  milk  to  dis- 
solve it  into  a  paste ;   meantime  have  the  milk  boiHng  in  a  sauce-pan 


TEA  MAKING.  .  459 

until  it  boils  to  a  bubble,  then  gently  stir  in  the  paste,  stirring  until 
thoroughly  mixed,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  The  white  of  eggs  foamed  on 
top  is  an  improvement. 

TEA. 

Many  say  that  tea  is  very  hurtful,  but  we  all  know  it  causes  cheerful- 
ness, clearness  of  mind — and  is  a  welcome  accessory  to  every  table.  It 
should  be  banished  from  the  breakfast  table,  as  not  being  so  nourishing 
as  coffee,  and  at  the  early  meal  we  know  how  necessary  it  is  to  have 
nourishing  food.  To  a  few  people  it  is  hurtful,  therefore  they  should 
use  but  a  moderate  quantity. 

Tea  is  recommended  for  the  following  cases  :  After  a  full  meal,  when 
the  system  is  oppressed  ;  for  the  corpulent  and  the  old  ;  for  hot  climates, 
and  especially  for  those  who,  living  there,  eat  freely,  or  drink  milk  or 
alcohol ;  in  cases  of  suspended  animation ;  for  soldiers  and  others 
marching  in  hot  climates ;  for  then,  by  promoting  evaporation  and  cool- 
ing the  body,  it  prevents  in  a  degree  the  effects  of  too  much  food  as  of 
too  great  heat. 

A  judicious  mixture  of  several  kinds  of  tea  is  often  advisable.  An 
excellent  mixture  which  combines  cheapness  with  fineness  of  flavor,  is 
composed  of  one  pound  of  Congo  tea  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  each  of 
Assam  and  Orange  Pekoe.  The  usual  mixture  of  black  and  green  tea 
is  four  quarters  of  black  and  one  of  green. 

In  order  to  draw  tea  properly,  be  sure  and  have  soft  water ;  in  order 
to  avoid  the  limy  taste  often  in  water  boiled  in  tea  kettle,  put  a  clean 
oyster  shell  in  the  kettle,  which  will  always  keep  it  in  good  order  by 
attracting  all  particles  that  may  be  impregnated  in  the  water.  If  tea  is 
infused  in  soft  water  it  will  be  found  to  have  the  best  color  and  to  draw 
best.  It  is  a  mistake  to  make  tea  strong,  if  the  full  flavor  is  desired. 
Professional  tea-tasters  use  but  a  single  pinch  to  a  cup  of  boiling  water. 
In  China  and  Russia,  where  tea  is  made  to  perfection,  it  is  very  weak, 
boiling  water  being  poured  upon  a  few  leaves,  the  decoction  covered  a 
few  minutes,  and  then  drank  hot  and  clear.  Two  minutes  is  long 
enough  for  tea  to  stand,  and  it  should  never  be  boiled,  or  the  fine  aroma 
will  be  thrown  off  by  evaporation,  leaving  as  flavor  only  the  bitter  tannic 
acid  extracted  by  boiling.  If  hard  water  must  be  us^d  in  making  tea,  a 
little  carbonate  of  soda  put  into  the  tea-pot,  will  both  increase  the 
strength  of  the  tea  and  make  it  more  nutritious,  the  alkali  dissolving  the 
gluten  to  some  extent. 

A  silver  tea-urn  is  a  matter  of  economy,  for  it  may  be  kept  boiling 
with  a  much  smaller  quantity  of  spirits  of  wine  than  when  a  varnished 
or  bronzed  urn  is  used.  A  good  cup  of  tea  is  made  by  putting  the  tea 
in  the  tea-pot  and  then  put  in  the  oven  or  near  the  fire  where  it  can  get 
very  hot,  and  the  pot  then  filled  with  boiling-hot  water.    The  result  will 


ICO  .  SUMMER  DRINKS. 

be  a  delicious  cup  of  tea  much  superior  to  that  drawn  in  the  ordinary 
way. 

Never  make  tea  in  any  other  way  than  a  highly-polished  urn,  for  it  is 
a  chemical  fact  that  metal  retains  the  heat  longer  than  earthenware, 
and  the  better  it  is  polished,  the  more  complete  will  the  liquid  be  kept 
hot  and  the  essence  of  the  tea  be  extracted.  See  that  the  water  is  really 
boiling.  Tea  retains  its  flavor  better  if  kept  in  little  tin  canisters  instead 
of  a  caddy. 

A  French  chemist  asserts  that  if  tea  be  ground  like  coffee,  immediately 
before  hot  water  is  poured  upon  it,  it  will  yield  nearly  double  the  amount 
of  its  exhilarating  qualities. 

Tastes  differ  regarding  the  flavor  of  teas.  A  good  mixture  in  point 
of  flavor  (and  what  we  use  ourselves)  is  two-fifths  black,  two-fifths 
green  and  one-fifth  gunpowder,  all  being,  of  course,  of  superior  quality. 

ICED   TEA. 

The  tea  should  be  made  in  the  morning,  very  strong,  and  not  allowed 
to  steep  long.  Keep  in  the  ice-box  till  the  meal  is  ready  and  then  put 
in  a  small  quantity  of  cracked  ice.  Very  few  understand  the  art  of 
making  iced  tea,  but  pour  the  scalding  hot  tea  on  a  goblet  of  ice  lumped 
in,  and  as  the  ice  melts  the  tea  is  weak,  insipid,  and  a  libel  on  its  name. 
Iced  coffee  is  very  nice  made  in  the  same  way.  Too  much  ice  is  detri- 
mental to  health  and  often  causes  gastric  fever ;  so  beware  of  it  when 
in  a  heated  state,  or  do  not  drink  of  it  in  large  quantities. 


SUMMER  DRINKS. 


OATMEAL  DRINK. 


Take  four  tablespoonfuls  of  Scotch  oatmeal,  put  into  a  small  jug  and 
fill  up  with  clear,  cool  water;  shake  well  and  allow  it  to  settle.  This 
makes  a  most  refreshing  drink  in  hot  weather  and  quenches  thirst  more 
than  any  other  liquid. 

SARSAPARILLA  MEAD. 

Three  pounds  sugar,  three  ounces  tartaric  acid,  one  ounce  cream  of 
tartar,  one  ounce  flour,  one  ounce  essence  sarsaparilla,  three  quarts 
water ;  strain  and  bottle,  then  let  stand  ten  days  before  using. 

CREAM  OF  TARTAR  DRINK. 

Two  spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  half  a 
cup  of  loaf  sugar  and  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  This  is  a  good  sum- 
mer drink  for  invalids,  and  is  cleansing  to  the  blood. 


SUMMER  DRINKS,  461 


ICED  BUTTERMILK. 

There  is  no  healthier  drink  than  buttermilk,  but 'it  must  be  creamy, 
rich  buttermilk  to  be  good.  It  should  stand  on  the  ice  to  cool,  though 
if  very  rich  and  thick  a  little  ice  in  it  is  an  improvement. 

BERRY  SHERBET. 

Crush  one  pound  of  berries,  add  them  to  one  quart  of  water,  one 
lemon  sliced,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  orange  flavor,  if  you  have  it.  Let 
these  ingredients  stand  in  an  earthen  bov^l  for  three  hours,  then  strain, 
squeezing  all  the  juice  out  of  the  fruit.  Dissolve  one  pound  of  powdered 
sugar  in  it,  strain  again  and  put  on  the  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

JELLY  DRINKS. 

A  little  jelly  or  fruit  syrup  dissolved  in  a  goblet  of  water  with  a  little 
sugar  is  a  refreshing  drink.  Lime  juice  squeezed  into  lemonade  gives 
it  a  tart  but  pleasing  flavor.  A  little  orange  juice  is  also  an  improve- 
ment in  nearly  all  summer  drinks. 

WELSH  NECTAR. 

Ingredients :  One  pound  of  raisins,  three  lemons,  two  pounds  of  loaf 
sugar,  two  gallons  of  boiling  water.  Mode  :  Cut  the  peel  off  the  lemons 
very  thin,  pour  upon  it  the  boiling  water,  and  when  cool,  add  the 
strained  juice  of  the  lemons,  the  sugar  and  the  raisins,  stoned  and 
chopped  very  fine.  Let  it  stand  four  or  five  days,  stirring  it  every  day ; 
then  strain  it  through  a  jelly-bag  and  bottle  it  for  immediate  use. 

EFFERVESCING  SODA. 

Mix  half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  bicarbonate  of  soda  thoroughly 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  syrup  of  any  flavor  to  suit  the  taste.  Then 
add  six  or  eight  times  as  much  cold  water ;  while  stirring  it  mix  in  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  tartaric  aeid  and  drink  at  once.  This  is  for 
immediate  consumption.  For  bottling — Mix  the  syrup,  flavor  and 
water  in  the  usual  proportions  and  fill  into  bottles ;  put  in  each  bottle 
half  a  drachm  each  of  cr}'stallized  bicarbonate  of  potassa  and  crystallized 
tartaric  acid  and  cork  immediately.  The  above  quantity  is  for  soda 
bottles  ;  wine  bottles  will  require  double  the  quantity. 

ORGEAT. 

Ingredients:  Half  ounce  of  bitter  almonds,  half  pound  of  Jorden 
almonds,  one  tablespoonful  of  orange  flower  water,  three  pints  of  rose 
water,  half  pint  of  cold  water  that  has  been  boiled,  one  and  a  half  pints 
of  clarified  sugar.     Mode :  Blanche  the  almonds,  and,  after  having  put 


462  SUMMER  DRINKS. 

them  into  a  mortar  with  the  orange  flower  water,  bruise  them  to  a  paste, 
adding-  from  time  to  time  the  rose  water  and  boiled  water  until  the 
whole  of  these  ingredients  are  blended  together;  strain  the  mixture 
through  a  coarse  sieve,  add  the  clarified  sugar  and  put  the  whole  into  a 
saucepan  which  must  be  removed  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  the  contents 
boil,  then  bottle  and  cork  well.  A  tablespoonful  of  this  mixture  in  a 
tumbler  of  cold  water  makes  a  delicious  and  refreshing  summer  drink. 


CLARET  CUP. 

Put  into  a  bowl  three  bottles  of  soda-water  and  one  bottle  of  claret. 
Pare  a  lemon  very  thin  and  grate  a  nutmeg;  add  to  these,  in  a  jug,  one 
pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and  pour  over  them  one  pint  of  boiling  water ; 
when  cold,  strain  and  mix  with  the  wine  and  soda-water ;  a  little  lemon 
juice  may  be  added. 

FRUIT  CUP. 

Pare  the  yellow  rind  very  thinly  from  twelve  lemons,  squeeze  the 
juice  over  it  in  an  earthen  bowl,  and  let  it  stand  over  night  if  possible. 
Pare  and  slice  thinly  a  very  ripe  pineapple,  and  let  it  lay  over  night  in 
half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar.  Crush  one  quart  of  berries,  and  let 
them  lay  over  night  in  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar.  If  all  these 
ingredients  cannot  be  prepared  the,  day  before  they  are  used,  they  must 
be  done  very  early  in  the  morning,  because  the  juices  of  the  fruit  need 
to  be  incorporated  with  the  sugar  at  least  twelve  hours  before  the  bev- 
erage is  used.  After  all  the  ingredients  have  been  properly  prepared, 
as  above,  strain  off  the  juice,  carefully  pressing  all  of  it  out  of  the 
fruit ;  mix  it  with  two  pounds  of  powdered  sugar  and  three  quarts  of 
ice  water,  and  stir  it  until  all  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Then  strain  it 
again  through  a  muslin  or  bolting-cloth  sieve  and  put  it  on  the  ice  or  in 
a  very  cool  place  until  it  is  wanted  for  use. 

LEMON  AND  KALI,  OR  SHERBET. 

Large  quantities  of  this  wholesome  and  refreshing  preparation  are 
manufactured  and  consumed  every  summer.  It  is  sold  in  bottles,  and 
also  as  a  beverage,  made  by  dissolving  a  large  teaspoonful  in  a  tumbler 
two-thirds  filled  with  water.  Take  ground  white  sugar  half  a  pound, 
tartaric  acid,  carbonate  of  soda  of  each  quarter  of  a  pound,  essence  of 
lemon  forty  drops.  All  the  powders  should  be  well  dried  ;  add  the 
essence  to  the  sugar,  then  the  other  powders  ;  stir  all  together  and  mix 
by  passing  twice  through  a  hair  sieve.  Must  be  kept  in  tightly-corked 
bottles,  into  which  a  damp  spoon  must  not  be  inserted.  In  this  you 
have  a  nice  summer  drmk. 


HOME-MADE  BEER.       -  463 


MAPLE  BEER. 

To  four  gallons  boiling  water  put  one  quart  maple  syrup  and  one 
tablespoonful  essence  of  spruce ;  when  about  milk-warm  add  one  pint 
yeast,  and  when  fermented  .bottle  it.     In  three  days  it  is  a  good  drink. 

GINGER  BEER. 

Brown  sugar  two  pounds,  boiling  water  two  gallons,  cream  of  tartar 
one  ounce,  bruised  ginger  two  ounces.  Infuse  the  ginger  in  the  boiling 
water,  add  the  sugar  and  cream  of  tartar  ;  when  lukewarm,  strain,  then 
add  one-half  pint  good  yeast.  Let  it  stand  all  night,  then  bottle.  If 
desired,  a  lemon  may  be  added,  and  it  may  be  clarified  by  the  white  of 
one  ^g^. 

LEMON  BEER. 

Sugar  one  pound,  boiling  water  one  gallon,  one  sliced  lemon,  bruised, 
ginger  one  ounce,  yeast  one  teacup.  Let  it  stand  twelve  to  twenty 
hours,  after  which  it  may  be  bottled. 

HOP  BEER. 

Sugar  four  pounds,  hops  six  ounces,  ginger,  bruised,  four  ounces. 
Boil  the  hops  for  three  hours  with  five  quarts  of  water,  then  strain  ;  add 
five  more  quarts  of  water  and  the  ginger,  boil  a  little  longer,  again 
strain,  add  the  sugar,  and  when  lukewarm  add  one  pint  of  yeast.  After 
twenty-four  hours  it  will  be  ready  for  bottling. 

SPRUCE  BEER. 

Hops  two  ounces,  sassafras,  in  chips,  two  ounces,  water  ten  gallons. 
Boil  half  an  hour,  strain,  and  add  brown  sugar  seven  pounds,  essence 
of  spruce  one  ounce,  essence  of  ginger  one  ounce,  pimento,  ground,  one- 
half  ounce.  Put  the  whole  in  a  cask  and  let  cool,  then  add  one-half 
pint  of  yeast,  let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  fine  and  bottle  it. 

LEMON  GINGER  BEER. 

Ingredients  :  Two  and  a  half  pounds  loaf  sugar,  one  and  a  half  ounces 
of  bruised  ginger,  one  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  the  rind  and  juice  of 
two  lemons,  three  gallons  of  boiling  water,  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of 
thick  and  fresh  brewer's  yeast.  Mode  :  Peel  the  lemons,  squeeze  the 
juice,  strain  it,  and  put  the  peel  and  juice  in  a  large  earthen  pan  with 
the  bruised  ginger,  cream  of  tartar  and  loaf  sugar.  Pour  over  these 
ingredients  three  gallons  of  boiling  water,  let  it  stand  until  just  warm, 
when  add  the  yeast,  which  should  be  perfectly  fresh.  Stir  the  contents 
of  the  pan  well  and  let  them  remain  near  the  fire  all  night,  covering  the 
pan  with  a  cloth.     The  next  day  skim  off  the  yeast  and  pour  the  liquor 


464  •         SUMMER  DRINKS. 

carefully  into  another  vessel,  leaving  the  sediment :  then  bottle  imme- 
diately and  tie  the  corks  down,  and  in  three  days  the  ginger  beer  will 
be  fit  for  use.  For  some  tastes  the  above  proportion  of  sugar  may  be 
found  rather  too  large,  when  it  may  be  diminished,  but  the  beer  will 
not  keep  so  long  good. 

To  Make  a  Small  Quantity  Quickly — Over  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  loaf  sugar,  one  and  a  quarter  ounces  of  sliced  ginger,  and  the  peel 
of  a  lemon,  pour  a  gallon  of  boiling  water ;  when  lukewarm,  add  a 
spoonful  of  yeast  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  This  last  is  a  most  conve- 
nient receipt,  when  only  a  small  quantity  for  some  particular  occasion 
is  required,  and  is  as  quickly  made  and  not  much  trouble  to  prepare. 
The  yeast  should  be  in  one  night. 

ENGLISH  GINGER  BEER. 

Pour  four  quarts  of  boiling  water  on  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  ginger, 
one  ounce  cream  of  tartar,  one  pound  brown  sugar,  and  two  lemons 
sliced  thin  ;  put  in  two  gills  yeast,  and  let  ferment  twenty-four  hours, 
then  bottle.  It  improves  to  keep  a  few  weeks  unless  very  hot  weather, 
and  it  is  a  very  nice  beverage. 

SPRUCE  BEER. 

Three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  four  gallons  water,  an  ounce  of  ginger, 
a  little  lemon  peel  and  a  little  essence  of  spruce  to  give  it  flavor ;  add 
one  teacup  of  yeast.     When  fermented  bottle  up  close. 

CREAM  BEER. 

Two  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  tartaric  acid,  juice 
of  one  lemon,  three  pints  of  water.  Boil  five  minutes  ;  when  cold  add 
the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten,  one  cup  of  flour,  an  ounce  of  flavoring ; 
bottle  and  keep  cool ;  put  two  tablespoonfuls  in  a  tumbler  of  water  and 
one-third  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

SODA  BEER. 

Three  pints  strong  beer,  one  quart  molasses,  three  and  one-half 
pounds  brown  sugar,  simmered  together  and  skimmed  as  long  as  scum 
will  rise  ;  three  ounces  tartaric  acid  dissolved  in  one-half  pint  of  water, 
one  and  one-half  ounces  each  of  essence  of  lemon,  wintergreen  and 
sassafras ;  bottle,  cork,  and  tie. 

SODA  BEER. 

Put  four  pounds  white  sugar  into  two  pints  of  hot  water;  put  one- 
fourth  pound  tartaric  acid  into  one  pint  of  cold  water  and  when  dis- 
solved boil  a  few  minutes.     When  cold  add  the  whites  of  six  beaten 


LEMONADE.  465 

eggs  and  bottle  for  use.  When  wanted  put  about  three  teaspoonfuls  in 
a  glass  and  fill  part  full  of  cold  water  and  take  on  the  point  of  a  knife 
or  spoon  a  little  soda,  stir  and  drink  quickly  while  foaming.  It  is  harm- 
less and  pleasant  and  good  for  fever. 

POCKET  LEMONADE. 

Lemon  sugar  is  made  of  tartaric  acid,  lemon  oil  and  powdered  sugar, 
in  proportion  to  suit  the  taste.  This  is  the  much-talked-of  "  pocket 
lemonade."  Persons  traveling  will  find  it  greatly  to  their  advantage 
and  comfort  to  have  a  bottle  of  this  in  their  lunch-basket. 

PICNIC  LEMONADE. 

Roll  the  fruit  in  granulated  sugar  that  is  spread  upon  a  marble  or 
other  hard  surface,  then  squeeze  them  over  the  sugar  and  remove  their 
seeds.  The  juice,  thus  obtained,  may  be  bottled  for  the  journey  and 
added  to  water  at  pleasure.  If  ice  must  be  carried,  select  a  clear,  solid 
piece  and  wrap  it  in  a  heavy  flannel.  Carry  an  ice-pick  with  it,  so  that 
it  may  be  broken  up  when  needed,  with  as  little  waste  as  possible. 

GINGER  LEMONADE. 

Take  half  a  cup  of  vinegar,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  gin- 
ger ;  stir  well  together,  put  in  a  quart  pitcher  and  fill  with  ice-water. 
If  one  wants  it  sweeter  or  sourer  than  these  quantities  will  make  it, 
more  of  the  needed  ingredients  may  be  put  in.  It  is  a  cooling  drink 
and  almost  as  good  as  lemonade,  some  preferring  it. 

JELLY  LEMONADE. 

Pare  the  yellow  rind  thinly  from  two  oranges  and  six  lemons  and 
steep  it  four  hours  in  a  quart  of  hot  water.  Boil  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
loaf  sugar  in  three  pints  of  water,  skimming  it  until  it  is  clear.  Pour 
these  two  mixtures  together.  Add  to  them  the  juice  of  six  oranges  and 
twelve  lemons,  mix  and  strain  through  a  jelly-bag  until  clear.  Keep 
cool  until  wanted  for  use.  If  the  beverage  is  to  be  kept  several  days,  it 
should  be  put  in  clean  glass  bottles  and  corked  tightly.  If  for  a  small 
party,  half  of  the  quantity  will  be  sufficient. 

EFFERVESCENT  LEMONADE  POWDERS. 

Pound  and  mix  together  one-half  pound  loaf  sugar,  one  ounce  car- 
bonate of  soda  and  three  drops  oil  of  lemon  ;  divide  the  mixture  in 
sixteen  parts  and  wrap  in  white  paper  ;  then  take  one  ounce  of  tartaric 
acid,  divide  in  sixteen  parts,  wrapping  them  in  blue  paper.  Dissolve 
one  of  each  kind  m  half  a  glass  of  water,  mix  and  drink  while  effer- 
vescing. 


466  SUMMER  DRINKS, 

EFFERVESCING  LEMONADE. 

Take  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  one-half  pint  of  cold  water,  one 
dessert-spoonful  of  pounded  sugar,  one-half  small  teaspoonful  of  car- 
bonate of  soda.  Squeeze  the  juice  from  the  lemon,  strain  and  add 
it  to  the  water,  and  sweeten  the  whole  with  the  sugar.  When  well 
mixed,  put  in  the  soda,  stir  well  and  drink  while  the  mixture  is  in  an 
effervescing  state. 

PORTABLE  LEMONADE. 

Press  your  hand  on  the  lemon  and  roll  it  back  and  forth  briskly  on 
the  table  to  make  it  squeeze  more  easily,  then  press  the  juice  into  a 
bowl  or  tumbler — never  use  tin — strain  out  all  the  seeds,  as  they  give  a 
bad  taste.  Remove  all  the  pulp  from  the  peels  and  boil  in  water,  a  pint 
for  a  dozen  pulps,  to  remove  the  acid.  A  few  minutes  boiling  is  enough  ; 
then  strain  the  water  with  the  juice  of  the  lemons ;  put  a  pound  of 
white  sugar  to  a  pint  of  the  juice,  boil  ten  minutes,  bottle  it,  and  your 
lemonade  is  ready.  Put  a  teaspoonful  or  two  of  this  syrup  to  a  glass  of 
water. 

MILK  LEMONADE. 

Loaf  sugar  one  and  a  half  pounds,  dissolved  in  a  quart  of  boiling 
water,  with  half  a  pint  of  lemon  juice  and  one  and  a  half  pints  of  milk. 

HOT  LEMONADE. 

To  six  lemons,  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  lump  sugar  and  a 
pint  of  boiling  v/ater ;  rub  the  lemons  with  some  of  the  sugar,  peel 
them  very  thin,  strain  the  juice,  put  it,  with  the  lemon-peel  and  sugar, 
into  a  jug  and  pour  over  it  four  pints  of  boiling  water;  cover  the  jug 
well  with  a  cloth  to  keep  in  the  steam  and  drink  hot. 

CURRANT  WINE. 

For  every  gallon  of  water  take  one  gallon  of  currants  off  the  stalks, 
bruise  well  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  Next  morning  wash  them 
well  with  the  hands  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  To  every  gallon  of 
the  liquor  add  four  pounds  of  sugar.  Rinse  the  cask  well  with  brandy 
and  strain  the  liquor  again  when  putting  in,  by  vlhich  you  will  see 
whether  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Lay  the  bung  lightly  on  and  stop  it  up 
in  ten  days. 

RIPE  GOOSEBERRY  WINE. 

Put  ripe  and  well  picked  red  gooseberries  into  a  tub  or  pan,  bruise  the 
fruit  well  and  leave  it  uncovered  for  twenty-four  hours.  Squeeze  the 
juice  from  the  pulp  through  a  fine  sieve  or  canvas  bag.     Put  the  resi- 


'       HOME-MADE  WINE.  467 

due  of  each  squeezing  into  a  vessel,  pour  upon  it  one-half  gallon  of 
boiling  water  for  each  gallon  of  fruit  and  stir  well  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Let  it  stand  for  twelve  hours  ;  squeeze  the  pulp  through  the 
bag  and  add  the  liquor  to  the  juice  of  the  fruit  obtained.  Add  two  and 
a  half  pounds  of  sugar  to  each  gallon  of  the  liquor  and  stir  it  well.  Let 
it  stand  to  ferment.  When  it  has  done  fermenting,  draw  it  off  and  add 
three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  brandy  to  each  gallon.  Let  it  stand  to  settle 
for  four  or  five  weeks,  then  draw  it  off  carefully  into  a  cask  that  will 
just  hold  it;  keep  it  in  a  cool  cellar  for  twelve  months  or  more,  when  it 
may  be  bottled.  Choose  a  dry,  clear,  cold  day  for  bottling.  This 
ought  to  be  a  splendid  wine  in  two  years. 

GINGER  WINE. 

Boil  twenty  pounds  of  sugar  in  seven  gallons  of  water  for  half  an 
hour,  skimming  it  well ;  then  put  nine  ounces  of  bruised  ginger  in  a 
portion  of  the  Hquor,  and  mix  all  together.  When  nearly  cold  put  nine 
pounds  of  raisins  chopped  very  small,  into  a  wine  gallon  cask ;  add  four 
lemons,  shced.  after  taking  out  the  seeds,  and  pour  the  liquor  over  all, 
with  one  half-pint  of  yeast.  Leave  the  cask  open  for  three  weeks^ 
keeping  it  filled  up  with  some  of  the  reserved  liquor,  and  bottle  it  in 
from  six  to  nine  months. 

GRAPE  WINE. 

Put  twenty  pounds  of  ripe,  fresh  picked  and  well  selected  grapes  into 
a  stone  jar,  and  pour  on  them  six  quarts  of  boiling  water.  When  the 
water  has  cooled  enough,  squeeze  the  grapes  well  with  the  hand  ;  cover 
the  jar  with  a  cloth  and  let  it  stand  for  three  days,  then  press  out  the 
juice  and  add  ten  pounds  crushed  sugar.  After  it  has  stood  for  a  week, 
take  off  scum,  strain  and  bottle  it,  corking  loosely.  When  the  fer- 
mentation is  complete,  strain  it  again  and  bottle  it,  corking  tightly. 
Lay  the  bottles  on  their  sides  in  a  cool  place. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE. 

Measure  your  berries,  mash  them  in  a  jar,  and  for  each  gallon  of 
fruit  add  a  quart  of  boiling  water ;  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then 
strain,  and  to  each  gallon  of  juice  add  two  and  one-half  pounds  of 
sugar  ;  white  sugar  is  best.  Let  it  remain  in  a  jar  nine  days,  skimming 
occasionally,  then  bottle.  Cork  tightly.  It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  six 
months. 

CHERRY  WINE. 

One  quart  of  strained  juice,  two  of  water,  three  pounds  sugar.  This 
will  make  one  gallon. 


4:QS  SUMMER  DRINKS, 


RASPBERRY  CORDIAL. 

Fill  a  jar  nearly  full  of  raspberries  ;  cover  them  with  White  wine  vine- 
gar, let  stand  ten  days ;  strain  ;  add  to  the  liquid  one  and  one-half 
pounds  sugar  to  each  pint ;  boil  gently  a  few  minutes  ;  cool  and  bottle 
for  use.  Mixed  with  water  it  is  a  delightful  summer  drink.  Blackber- 
ries or  strawberries  may  be  substituted  for  raspberries. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

One  quart  blackberry  juice  ;  one  pound  of  white  sugar ;  one-half 
ounce  grated  nutmeg  and  the  same  of  powdered  cinnamon  ;  one-quar- 
ter of  an  ounce  of  allspice,  the  same  of  powdered  cloves,  and  one  pint 
of  best  brandy.  Tie  the  spices  in  thin  muslin  bags ;  boil  juice,  sugar 
and  spices  together  for  fifteen  minutes,  skimming  well ;  add  the  brandy 
and  set  aside  in  a  closely  covered  vessel  to  cool.  When  perfectly  cold 
strain  out  the  spices  and  bottle,  sealing  the  corks. 

GINGER  CORDIAL. 

To  one  pound  of  picked  currants,  red  or  black,  add  one  quart  of 
whisky  and  one  ounce  of  bruised  ginger ;  put  in  a  stone  jar  and  let  it 
stand  for  twenty-four  or  thirty-six  hours  ;  strain  through  a  flannel  bag 
and  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar ;  when  it  is  all  melted,  bottle. 

CHERRY  CORDIAL. 

To  six  pounds  of  cherries  add  three  pounds  of  sugar  and  one  gallon 
of  whisky.     Shake  the  jar  often  for  the  first  three  weeks,  then  bottle. 

BLACK  CURRANT  CORDIAL. 

To  every  four  quarts  of  black  currants  picked  from  the  stems  and 
slightly  bruised,  add  one  gallon  of  the  best  whisky ;  let  it  remain  four 
months,  shaking  the  jar  occasionally;  then  drain  off  the  liquor  and 
strain  ;  add  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  and  a  pound  of  best  cloves, 
slightly  bruised.     Bottle  well  and  seal. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

To  one  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  one-half  ounce 
of  powdered  cinnamon,  one-fourth  ounce  of  mace,  and  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  cloves.  Boil  all  together  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  strain  the 
syrup  and  add  to  each  pint  a  glass  of  French  brandy. 


EXTRACTS  AND  SYRUPS,  469 


EXTRACTS  AND  SYRUPS. 

PEACH  FLAVORING  EXTRACT. 

The  meats  of  peach  pits,  in  brandy,  make  an  excellent  flavoring 
extract,  resembling  that  of  bitter  almonds.  Allow  one  teacup  of  the 
meat  to  two  of  brandy.  Use  one  teaspoonful  of  the  liquor  for  a  quart 
of  custard,  or  cake  dough. 

VANILLA  EXTRACT. 

Take  one  ounce  each  of  vanilla  and  tonka  beans;  soak  the  latter  in 
warm  water  until  the  skin  can  be  rubbed  off ;  cut  all  in  small  pieces  and 
put  in  a  quart  bottle  with  a  pint  of  alcohol  and  a  pint  of  water.  Set  it 
in  a  warm  place  for  two  or  three  days  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use,  and 
quite  as  good  as  can  be  bought  at  the  stores,  at  much  less  expense. 
The  bottle  can  be  filled  a  second  time,  and  the  extract  will  be  good.^ 

ORANGE  EXTRACT. 

Take  the  white  skin  from  the  peel  of  an  orange,  put  the  peel  into  a 
bottle,  cover  with  alcohol.     It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  day  or  two. 

LEMON  EXTRACT. 

Cut  off  the  yellow  outside  peel  of  five  lemons,  shave  it  as  thin  as  you 
can,  put  it  into  a  pint  of  spirits  and  cork  tightly. 

TOMATO  SYRUP. 

Extract  the  juice  of  tomatoes ;  add  one  pound  of  sugar  to  each  quart 
of  juice  and  bottle.  In  a  few  weeks  it  will  have  the  appearance  and 
flavor  of  pure  wine.  Mixed  with  water  it  is  a  delightful  drink  for  the 
sick,  as  it  retains  all  the  well-known  properties  of  the  fruit.  It  will 
keep  for  years. 

BARBERRY  SYRUP. 

Strip  barberries,  cover  them  with  water,  put  them  over  the  fire,  and 
be  careful  they  do  not  burn ;  don't  boil  them,  but  when  cooked  squeeze 
and  strain  them  carefully ;  to  one  pint  of  warm  juice  add  two  pints  of 
sugar ;  put  the  sweetened  juice  into  a  pitcher,  which  pitcher  put  into 
hot  water  until  the  juice  is  dissolved  ;  then  bottle  it. 

LEMON  FLAVORING. 

Take  a  dozen  lemons  ;  slice  them  thin ;  take  ten  pounds  of  best 
white  sugar ;  place  a  layer  of  sugar  and  one  of  lemons  in  an  earthen 


470  EXTRACTS  AND  SYRUPS. 

jar ;  let  them  remain  over  night,  then  pour  as  much  water  over  them  as 
will  make  a  syrup  ;  place  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  water  and  let  them  sim- 
mer but  not  boil ;  strain  and  bottle,  and  you  will  have  a  delicious  flavor- 
ing for  winter  when  lemons  are  expensive.  Lemonade  can  be  made 
from  it  by  using  a  few  spoonfuls  in  water.  The  lemons  can  be  placed 
on  a  plate  after  they  are  strained  from  the  syrup  and  used  in  preserves 
for  flavoring. 

LEMON  SYRUP. 

Take  two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  and  two  pints  of  water,  one  ounce 
of  citric  acid,  half-drachm  of  essence  of  lemon.  Boil  the  sugar 
and  water  together  for  quarter  of  an  hour  and  put  it  into  a  basin, 
where  let  it  remain  till  cold.  Beat  the  citric  acid  to  a  powder,  mix  the 
essence  of  lemon  with  it,  then  add  these  two  ingredients  to  the  syrup  ; 
mix  well  and  bottle  for  use.  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  syrup  are  suffi- 
cient for  a  tumbler  of  cold  water,  and  will  be  found  a  very  refreshing 
summer  drink.  ^ 

LEMON  PEEL. 

One  of  the  nicest  flavorings  for  custards,  stewed  rhubarb,  puddings, 
etc.,  is  made  from  the  brandy  in  which  lemon  peel  is  soaked.  A  wide- 
mouthed  bottle  should  always  be  kept,  in  which  to  put  all  spare  lemon 
peel ;  pour  brandy  over  to  cover  it  and  keep  it  corked.  This  is  always 
ready  for  use.  Another  bottle  should  be  kept  for  some  of  the  spare 
peel,  which  should  be  chopped  very  fine,  and  a  little  salt  put  over  it,  to  be 
used  for  forcemeats  or  meat  flavorings.  Also  dry  some  peel  in  a  cool 
oven,  and  use  this,  crumbled  fine  or  grated,  for  apple  sauce  and  various 
other  things. 

ORANGE  PEEL. 

Cut  the  fruit  into  quarters  lengthwise,  take  out  the  pulp  and  put  the 
peels  in  strong  salt  and  water  for  two  days,  then  take  them  out  and 
soak  for  an  hour  in  cold  water,  afterward  put  them  into  a  preserving 
kettle  with  fresh  cold  water,  and  boil  till  the  peels  are  tender,  when  they 
should  be  put  on  a  sieve  to  drain.  Make  a  thin  syrup  of  a  quart  of  the 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled  and  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  simmer  the 
peels  in  it  for  half  an  hour,  when  they  will  look  clear ;  pour  the  peels 
and  syrup  in  a  bowl  together  to  stand  till  the  next  day,  when  you  must 
make  as  much  syrup  as  will  cover  them,  of  the  proportion  of  one  pint 
of  water  to  a  pound  of  sugar,  boiling  it  till  it  will  fall  from  the  spoon  in 
threads ;  put  the  peels  into  the  syrup,  stir  half  an  hour  and  take  them 
out,  drain  on  a  sieve,  and  as  the  candy  dries,  transfer  them  to  a  dish  to 
finish  in  a  warm  place.  When  dry,  store  them  for  use.  This  recipe  is 
useful  for  any  lemon,  orange  or  citron  peel,  and  perfectly  wholesome. 


FISH.  471 


FISH. 

THE  WAYS  OF  COOKING  THEM. 

Purchase  those  which  are  fresh,  the  fresher  the  better.  The  white 
kinds  are  the  least  nutritious,  and  the  oily  the  most  difficult  of  digestion. 
When  fish  are  fresh  and  in  season,  the  muscles  are  firm  and  they  boil 
white ;  when  out  of  season  they  boil  bluish  and  flabby. 

Most  kinds  of  fish  are  best  in  cold  weather.  Mackerel  are  best  in 
August,  September  and  October,  halibut  in  May  and  June.  Oysters 
are  good  from  September  to  April.  Lobsters  are  best  at  the  season 
when  oysters  are  not  good. 

As  soon  as  possible  after  the  fish  are  caught,  remove  the  scales  and 
entrails,  and  scrape  out  every  particle  of  blood  and  the  white  skin  that 
lies  along  the  backbone,  being  carefal  not  to  crush  the  fish.  Rinse 
thoroughly  in  cold  water,  using  only  what  is  necessary  for  perfect  clean- 
liness ;  drain,  wipe  dry  and  place  on  ice  until  ready  to  cook.  To  remove 
the  earthy  taste  from  fresh-water  fish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  it  stand 
over  night,  or  at  least  a  few  hours  before  cooking ;  rinse  off,  wipe  dry, 
and,  to  completely  take  up  all  moisture,  wrap  in  a  dry  napkin.  Fresh- 
water fish  should  never  be  soaked  in  water  except  when  frozen,  and 
then  should  be  cooked  immediately.  Salt  fish  may  be  soaked  over 
night,  changing  the  water  once  or  twice  if  very  salt.  To  freshen  fish, 
place  it  with  the  fleshy  side  down,  so"  that  the  salt  may  go  to  the  bottom, 
where  it  naturally  settles. 

Fish  can  be  preserved  for  a  long  time  by  sprinkling  with  sugar, 
keeping  the  fish  in  a  horizontal  position,  so  that  the  sugar  may  pene- 
trate as  much  as  possible.  Salmon  thus  treated  has  a  more  agreeable 
taste,  and  this  method  does  not  destroy  the  flavor  of  any  fish  if  so 
treated.  If  you  live  remote  from  the  seaport  and  cannot  get  fish  hard 
and  fresh,  wet  it  with  an  tgg  (beaten)  before  you  meal  it,  to  prevent  its 
breaking. 

Fish  should  always  be  well  done ;  baked  or  fried,  it  is  most  palatable, 
though  some  prefer  it  boiled.  When  one  has  no  fish  kettle  (made  pur- 
posely to  boil  the  fish),  wrap  it  in  a  cloth,  lay  in  a  circle  on  a  plate  and 
set  it  in  the  kettle.  When  done  the  fish  may  be  lifted  entire  out  of  the 
kettle  without  breaking,  and  can  then  be  removed  to  the  platter.  In 
boiling  fish  allow  five  to  ten  minutes  to  the  pound,  according  to  thick- 
ness, after  putting  it  in  the  water.  To  test,  pass  a  knife  along  a  bone, 
and  if  done  the  flesh  will  separate  easily.  The  addition  of  salt  and 
vinegar  to  water  in  which  fish  is  boiled  seasons  the  fish  and  at  the  same 
time  hardens  the  water,  thus  much  improving  the  fish.  In  boiling  fish 
always  plunge  it  into  boiling  water  and  then  let  it  simmer  gently  until 


4:72  FISH. 

done.  In  case  of  salmon,  put  into  tepid  water  instead  of  hot,  to  pre- 
serve the  rich  color. 

To  fry  fish,  dip  it  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  use  lard,  not  butter. 
Garnish  with  parsley,  celery  tops  or  lemon.  Halibut  is  best  cut  in 
slices  and  fried  or  boiled.  Bass  are  good  any  way.  Salt  shad  and 
mackerel  must  be  soaked  over  night  for  broiling.  Sturgeons  are  best 
fried.  Black  and  white  fish  are  best  broiled  or  fried.  A  broiled  fish  is 
done  when  the  eyes  turn  white. 

Cod  frizzled,  that  is,  cut  in  slices  and  wrapped  round  with  greased 
paper,  then  placed  in  a  covered  pan  just  greased,  and  either  put  in  the 
oven  or  on  top  of  the  stove  and  frizzled  till  done,  is  a  very  nice  dish. 

Mackerel  merely  steamed,  with  no  sauce,  eaten  with  vinegar,  or  oil 
and  vinegar  is  delicious. 

Eels  stewed  in  a  plain  sauce  are  nice,  if  not  too  fat.  Make  a  sauce 
with  hot  butter,  flour  and  warm  water;  add  a  little  vinegar,  some  pep- 
percorns and  a  clove,  also  a  finely  chopped  onion.  Place  the  eels,  cut 
in  pieces,  in  the  sauce,  cover  and  let  simmer  twenty  minutes  or  so. 

Cook  hahbut  in  white  sauce.  Make  the  sauce  with  hot  butter, 
flour,  warm  milk ;  flavor  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  mace,  add  half  a 
handful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  put  the  piece  of  halibut  in.  Stew  for 
half  an  hour  and  trim  with  lemon  in  serving. 

Along  the  Atlantic  coast  there  is  a  great  variety  of  fish.  The  blue 
fish  is  excellent,  boiled  or  baked,  with  a  dressing  of  bread,  butter  and 
onions.  Sea  bass  are  boiled  with  egg  sauce  and  garnished  with  parsley. 
Salmon  are  baked,  boiled  and  broiled,  and  smelts  are  cooked  by  drop- 
ping into  boiling  fat. 

One  of  the  most  essential  things  in  servmg  fish  is  to  have  everything 
hot  and  quickly  dished,  so  that  all  may  go  to  the  table  at  once.  Serve 
fresh  fish  with  squash  and  green  peas ;  salt  fish  with  beets  and  carrots, 
salt  pork  and  potatoes,  and  parsnips  with  either. 

BROOK  TROUT. 

The  general  defect  in  cooking  trout  when  they  are  fried,  is  the  over- 
cooking. Trout  should  never  be  done  to  a  crisp.  When  overcooked 
you  might  as  well  fry  and  eat  chips — and  one  would  taste  just  as  well. 
Pork  or  bacon  may  do  very  well  to  cook  trout  with  in  camp,  but  it 
injures  the  flavor.  The  pork  is  not  improved  and  the  trout  are  worse, 
not  better.  If  they  have  to  be  fried,  use  butter,  or,  what  is  better,  sweet 
oil.  Have  the  butter  or  oil  quite  hot,  and  do  not  cook  too  much.  Try 
them  with  a  fork.  Put  no  egg  or  batter  on  them.  They  are  better 
perfectly  plain.  If  you  want  to  broil  them,  wrap  them  up  in  a  piece  of 
glazed  paper,  which  should  be  well  buttered ;  sprinkle  a  very  little  salt 
and  pepper  on  them  ;  put  them  on  a  spring  gridiron,  such  as  oysters 
are  broiled  on,  and  turn  the  gridiron  over  from  side  to  side ;  use  lemon 


BROOK  TROUT.  473 

juice  over  them  ;  you  do  not  want  parsley.  A  boiled  trout  is  positively 
better  than  either  a  fried  or  a  broiled  trout,  as  it  is  a  very  delicate  fish, 
and  flaky,  like  salmon,  and  it  ought  not  to  be  overcooked  ;  use  cold  water, 
'slightly  salted,  which  bring  up  to  the  boil ;  serve  with  plain  melted  butter  ; 
brown  butter  is  not  an  appropriate  sauce.  Baked  trout  are  fairly  good ; 
dry  the  fish,  do  not  split  them ;  lay  them  on  a  baking  dish,  add  a  Httle 
butter,  pepper  and  salt.  It  is  the  over-cooking  which,  nine  times  in 
ten,  spoils  this  very  fine  fish. 

BAKED  SALMON  TROUT. 

After  the  fish  is  well  cleaned,  lay  it  at  full  length  in  a  baking  pan, 
with  just  enough  water  to  keep  from  scorching.  If  large,  score  the 
backbone  with  a  sharp  knife.  Bake  slowly,  basting  often  with  butter 
and  water.  By  the  time  it  is  done,  have  ready  in  a  saucepan  a  cup  of 
cream,  diluted  with  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  hot  water,  in  which,  stir  care- 
fully two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  a  little  chopped  parsley, 
heat  this  in  a  vessel  set  within  another  of  boiling  water,  add  the  gravy 
from  the  pan,  boil  up  once  to  thicken,  pour  on  the  trout  and  serve. 
Garnish  with  parsley. 

TURBOT. 

Take  a  fine  white  fish  and  steam  until  done,  then  bone  it  and  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt ;  take  one-quart  of  milk,  one-quarter  pound  of 
flour,  one  bunch  of  parsley,  one  bunch  of  thyme,  three  slices  of  an  onion, 
salt  and  pepper.  Put  over  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  comes  to  a  thick 
cream,  then  remove  it  and  add  two  eggs.  Put  in  a  baking  dish. one 
layer  of  fish  and  one  of  the  sauce  and  so  on,  placing  the  last  layer  of 
the  sauce.  Sprinkle  with  rolled  crackers  or  bread  crumbs  and  cheese. 
Bake  about  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

TO  BAKE  FISH. 

When  cleaning  the  fish,  do  not  cut  off  the  head  and  tail ;  stuff  it  and 
sew  it,  or  confine  the  stuffing  by  winding  the  cord  several  times  around 
the  fish ;  lay  several  pieces  of  pork,  cut  in  strings,  across  the  top,  sprin- 
kle over  water,  pepper,  salt  and  bread  crumbs ;  put  some  hot  water  into 
the  pan  ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  very  often.  When  done,  the  top 
should  be  nicely  browned.  If  not  basted  often  a  baked  fish  will  be 
very  dry. 

DRESSING  FOR  FISH. 

Soak  half  a  pound  of  bread  crumbs  in  water,  and  when  the  bread  is 
soft  press  out  all  the  water.  Fry  two  tablespoonfuls  minced  onion  in 
some  butter ;  add  the  bread,  some  chopped  parsley,  a  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  suet,  pepper  and  salt ;  let  it  cook  a  moment,  take  it  off  the  fire 


474:  FISH. 


BAKED  HALIBUT. 


Take  about  four  pounds  of  halibut,  put  it  in  your  baking-  pan,  dredge 
with  a  little  flour  and  salt ;  cut  up  some  salt  pork  in  minute  bits  and 
place  on  top ;  pour  hot  water  in  your  pan,  and  bake  about  one  hour. 
Make  a  gravy  of  ^g%,  butter,  flour  and  water,  in  quantity  to  suit. 


BAKED  SMELTS. 

Wash  and  dry  the  smelts  thoroughly  in  a  cloth,  and  arrange  them  nicely 
in  a  flat  baking  dish.  Cover  them  with  fine  bread  crumbs  and  place 
little  pieces  of  butter  over  them.  Season  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Just  before  serving  add  a  sprinkle  of  lemon  juice,  and  garnish  with 
fried  parsley  and  cut  lemon. 

BAKED  SHAD. 

Clean,  wash  and  wipe  your  shad,  which  should  be  a  large  one.  Make 
a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs  steeped  in  sweet  milk,  butter,  pepper,  salt 
and  sweet  herbs,  moistened  with  a  beaten  ^<g'g.  Stuff  the  shad  and  sew 
it  up ;  lay  it  in  the  baking  pan,  with  a  cup  of  water  to  keep  it  from 
burning,  and  bake  an  hour,  or  more  if  necessary,  basting  with  butter 
and  water  until  it  is  tender  and  well  browned.  Take  it  up  and  put 
into  a  hot  dish  and  cover,  while  you  boil  up  the  gravy  in  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  catsup,  one  spoonful  of  browned  flour,  which  has  been  wet  with 
cold  water,  and  one  spoonful  of  thick  cream :  garnish  with  sliced  lemon 
and 'water-cresses.  The  gravy  may  be  poured  over  the  fish  or  served 
in  a  sauce-boat ;  take  out  the  thread  before  serving. 

BAKED  WHITEFISH. 

Clean,  rinse  and  wipe  dry  a  whitefish,  or  any  fish  that  weighs  three 
pounds ;  rub  the  fish  inside  and  out  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  fill  with  a 
dressing  made  like  that  for  poultry,  but  drier ;  sew  it  up  and  put  in  a 
hot  pan  with  some  drippings  and  a  lump  of  butter ;  dredge  with  flour 
and  lay  over  the  fish  a  few  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  or  bits  of  butter ; 
bake  an  hour  and  a  half,  basting  occasionally.  Serve  with  sliced  hard- 
boiled  eggs. 

BOILED  FISH. 

Take  a  fresh  water  mackerel  and  tie  in  a  clean  cloth  ;  boil  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour.  While  boiling  make  a  gravy  of  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  mix  well  together  with  a  spoon, 
then  pour  a  little  boiling  water,  enough  to  wet  it ;  stir,  then  set  a  pan  on 
the  stove,  pour  on  the  boiling  water  and  boil  five  minutes,  until  as  thick 
as  you  desire  ;  put  the  fish  on  a  platter  and  pour  gravy  over  it. 


SALT  FISH,  475 


BOILED  CODFISH. 

Soak  over  night ;  put  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  simmer  two  or  three 
hours ;  serve  with  drawn  butter  with  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced  on  it. 

BOILED  MACKEREL. 

Put  them  on  with  cold  water  and  salt.  When  the  kettle  boils  set  it 
aside  but  watch  it  closely,  and  take  it  up  the  moment  the  eyes  begin  to 
start  and  the  tail  to  split.  Sauce,  parsley  and  butter.  Garnish,  fennel 
and  slices  of  lemon. 

BROILED  FRESH  FISH. 

When  thoroughly  cleaned  and  dried,  split  open  so  that  when  laid 
flat  the  backbone  will  be  in  the  middle  ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  lay  on  a 
buttered  gridiron,  over  a  clear  fire,  with  the  inside  downward  until  it 
begins  to  brown ;  then  turn  over.  When  done,  lay  on  a  hot  dish  and 
butter  plentifully. 

BROILED  CODFISH. 

After  soaking  sufficiently  grease  the  bars  of  the  gridiron,  broil  and 
serve  with  bits  of  butter  dropped  over  it.  This  is  a  very  nice  dish  for 
tea. 

BROILED  SHAD. 

Split  and  wash  the  shad  and  afterwards  dry  in  a  cloth ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper ;  have  ready  a  bed  of  clear,  bright  coals ;  grease  the 
gridiron  well,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  hot  lay  the  shad  upon  it ;  broil 
quarter  of  an  hour  or  more,  according  to  thickness ;  butter  well  and 
send  to  table ;  it  can  be  served  with  melted  butter. 

BROILED  WHITEFISH. 

It  should  be  scaled,  drawn  and  wiped  dry  with  a  cloth ;  water  should 
not  be  allowed  to  touch  it  after  being  taken,  and,  like  the  blue-fish  of 
the  sea,  the  sooner  cooked  after  being  caught  the  better.  Broil  over  a 
quick  fire  of  live  coals  until  a  light  brown ;  then  bathe  with  good  sweet 
butter  and  serve  hot.  Sauce  :  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  red  and 
black  pepper  to  suit  the  taste,  one-half  cup  each  of  tomato  and  walnut 
catsup,  two  teaspoonfuls  mustard,  salt  to  suit  the  taste;  put  all  together 
in  a  saucepan  and  melt  quickly. 

BROILED  MACKEREL. 

Cut  a  slit  in  the  back  that  it  may  be  thoroughly  done.  Lay  it  on 
a  clean  gridiron,  having  greased  the  bars,  over  a  clear  but  rather  slow 
fire.  Sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  over  them.  When  thoroughly  done  on 
both  sides  take  them  up  on  a  very  hot  dish.     Rub  a  bit  of  butter  over 


476  FISH, 

the  fish,  and  put  inside  a  little  fennel  and  parsley,  scalded  and  chopped, 
seasoned  with  a  bit  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  bit  of  fresh  butter.  Serve 
with  fennel  sauce,  parsley  and  butter. 

FRIED  FISH. 

All  fish  should  be  fried  in  the  purest  oil.  This  can  be  used  over  and 
over  again  by  clarification ;  and,  all  things  considered,  oil  is  quite  as 
economical  as  lard  or  dripping.  Clean  your  pan,  put  therein  sufficient 
oil  to  thoroughly  and  deeply  immerse  the  fish.  Permit  this  to  boil,  and 
it  will  attain  so  high  a  temperature  that  when  a.  finger  of  bread  is  dipped 
into  it  and  instantly  drawn  out,  the  bread  has  acquired  a  brown  sur- 
face, or  a  piece  of  white  paper  dipped  into  it  comes  out  dry,  then — and 
not  until  then — your  fish,  already  egged  and  bread-crunibed,  is  launched 
lightly  on  the  surface  of  the  oil,  the  boiling  power  of  which  will  keep  it 
afloat,  and  then,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  fish,  from  two  to 
three  minutes  should  be  given  to  it ;  then  turn  it  gently  with  flat  tongs. 

FISH  GRAVY. 

Is  much  improved  by  taking  out  some  of  the  fat,  after  the  fish  is 
fried,  and  putting  in  a  little  butter ;  the  fat  thus  taken  out  will  do  to  fry 
fish  again,  but  it  will  not  do  for  any  kind  of  shortening.  Shake  a  little 
flour  into  the  hot  fat,  and  pour  in  a  little  boiling  water ;  stir  it  up  well 
as  it  boils,  a  minute  or  so.  Some  think  that  a  little  vinegar  adds  to 
its  taste. 

STEWED  FISH. 

Cut  a  fish  across  in  slices,  an  inch  and  a  half  thick,  and  sprinkle  with 
salt ;  boil  two  sliced  onions  until  done  ;  pour  off  water,  season  with  pep- 
per; add  two  teacups  of  hot  water  and  a  little  parsley,  and  in  this 
simmer  the  fish  until  thoroughly  done.  Serve  hot.  Good  method  for 
any  fresh  water  fish, 

SALT  FISH. 

Salt  fish  should  be  put  in  a  deep  plate,  with  just  water  enough  to 
cover  it,  the  night  before  you  intend  to  cook  it ;  it  should  not  be  boiled 
one  instant,  for  boiling  renders  it  hard ;  it  should  lie  in  scalding  hot 
water  for  two  or  three  hours  ;  the  less  water  that  is  used,  and  the  more 
fish  is  cooked  at  once,  the  better;  water  thickened  with  flour  and  water, 
while  boiling,  with  sweet  butter  put  in  to  melt,  is  the  common  sauce. 
It  is  more  economical  to  cut  salt  pork  into  bits,  and  fry  it  till  the  pork  is 
brown  and  crispy ;  it  should  not  be  done  too  fast,  lest  the  sweetness  be 
scorched  out. 

CODFISH. 

A  big  fish  is  most  profitable  ;  strip  all  you  can  from  it ;  spread  on  a 
brown  paper  in  the  sun  for  a  few  hours ;  do  not  try  to  dry  by  the  fire ; 


CODFISH,  47Y 

tie  up  in  a  thick  paper  bag,  or  put  in  some  vessel  with  a  tight  cover  (to 
prevent  the  smell  from  arising) ;  soak  the  remainder  and  rinse  at  once. 
A  nice  way  to  cook  it :  Shred  it  fine  ;  wash  through  several  waters  to 
remove  the  salt ;  boil  for  five  minutes  ;  drain  off  the  water  and  add 
milk,  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  flour.  Now  toast  a  few  slices  of  bread  ; 
dip  them  in  hot  water,  lay  on  the  bottom  of  a  deep  platter  and  spread 
with  butter ;  next  break  some  eggs  in  a  basin  of  boiling  water ;  cook 
carefully  without  breaking  the  yolks  ;  lift  them  with  a  skimmer,  and  lay 
them  on  the  toast ;  then  pour  on  the  codfish  and  you  will  have  a  deli- 
cious dish. 

STEWED  CODFISH. 

Shred  it  fine ;  rinse  and  put  in  cold  water ;  let  it  just  boil  up ;  drain 
off  the  water ;  add  a  good  piece  of  butter,  milk  and  flour  to  make  it 
rather  thick;  let  it  scald  just  long  enough  to  cook  the  flour ;  pour  on  a 
platter  spread  with  bits  of  butter,  a  little  pepper,  and  garnish  with  two 
or  more  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced  thin. 

BAKED   CODFISH. 

One  quart  picked  codfish,  one  pint  bread  crumbs,  one-half  pint  cream, 
four  ounces  butter,  one  teaspoonful  pepper ;  wash  the  fish  thoroughly  and 
soak  over  night  in  cold  water.  When  ready  to  use  pick  it  fine,  put  it 
in  a  baking  dish  in  layers,  with  the  crumbs  and  pepper  (adding  a  little 
mustard  if  you  like) ;  over  the  top  layer,  which  must  be  crumbs,  spread 
the  softened  butter,  pour  the  cream  over  the  whole  and  bake  half  an 
hour.     Milk  may  be  used  instead  of  cream. 

SHREDDED  CODFISH. 

Mix  it  for  fishballs  or  cakes  and  it  is  excellent ;  use  it  with  c.gg  sauce 
and  milk  and  it  will  make  a  dainty  dish,  or  combine  it  with  beaten  up 
eggs,  adding  a  spoonful  of  flour,  and  frizzle  in  a  little  butter,  and  it 
will  make  a  savory  and  nourishing  kind  of  omelet. 

BOILED  CODFISH. 

Take  as  much  of  the  fish  as  you  think  you  will  require  and  put  it  in 
a  pan  of  cold  water  over  night  to  freshen.  About  an  hour  before  din- 
ner drain  the  water  off,  pick  the  fish  to  pieces,  put  it  in  a  pan  or  kettle, 
with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  the  fish,  set  on  the  stove  and  let  it 
slowly  come  to  a  scald  (do  not  let  it  boil,  for  boiling  makes  it  hard); 
pour  off  the  water  and  put  on  enough  milk  to  cover  the  fish  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil ;  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  smooth  in 
cold  milk ;  then,  just  before  serving,  break  in  two,  three,  or  as  many  eggs 
as  you  wish,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small  hen's  egg ;  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste. 


478  FISH. 


CODFISH  BALLS. 

Prepare  the  fish  as  for  boiling  ;  after  washing  and  soaking,  mince  fine, 
and  boil  twenty  minutes ;  throw  off  the  water  and  cover  with  fresh, 
boiling  water ;  boil  twenty  minutes  more,  drain  the  fish  very  dry,  and 
spread  upon  a  dish  to  cool ;  then  add  an  equal  bulk  of  mashed  potatoes  ; 
work  into  a  stiff  batter,  by  adding  a  lump  of  butter,  sweet  milk  and  a 
beaten  Q.gg,  flour  your  hands  and  make  the  mixture  into  balls  or  cakes; 
drop  into  boiling  lard  or  good  drippings  and  fry  to  a  light  brown. 

SALT  COD. 

Pick  the  fish  into  small  particles,  carefully  removing  all  bones ; 
soak  over  night  and  mix  (after  pouring  off  all  the  water)  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  potatoes  mashed  fine  and  a  lump  of  butter  and  pepper ; 
make  into  cakes  or  balls,  flour  slightly  and  fry  brown.  Or  a  better 
way  is  to  (after  soaking  the  picked  fish  over  night)  put  it  on  to  boil  in 
fresh  water ;  after  boiling  about  half  an  hour  pour  off  all  the  water  and 
stir  in  a  cup  of  sweet  milk  or  cream,  into  which  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
are  beaten,  a  lump  of  butter,  a  little  pepper  and  a  sprinkle  of  flour ; 
stir  a  few  minutes,  until  well  mixed,  and  you  have  an  excellent  break- 
fast dish. 

COD  CUTLETS. 

Steam  the  cod  till  nearly  done ;  cut  a  slice  and  have  a  batter  of  self- 
raising  flour  ready.  The  batter  is  good  when  mixed  with  one  &gg  and 
water ;  put  the  piece  of  fish  in  the  batter  in  the  pan  and  fold  it  over 
when  it  sets,  having  first  sprinkled  pepper  and  salt  on.  Make  the  cut- 
lets as  well  shaped  as  you  can.  Have  potatoes  cut  in  small  balls  and 
fried. 

PICKLED  HERRING. 

Take  one-half  dozen  small  Holland  or  Eastern  herrings  out  of  the 
brine,  split  them  through  the  back  and  soak  them  in  cold  water  over 
night;  in  the  morning  clean  them  nicely;  cut  them  crosswise  into 
strips  of  one-half  an  inch  and  put  them  into  a  deep  dish  with  one-half 
dozen  good  sized  onions  sliced  thin ;  season  with  pepper  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar ;  then  pour  on  enough  vinegar  to  cover 
them.  Will  be  ready  for  use  in  time  for  supper,  and  will  keep  a  week 
or  more  in  a  cool  place. 

COLD  CANNED  SALMON. 

This  is  nice  served  cold  with  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt,  or  sauces. 
For  a  breakfast  dish,  it  may  be  heated,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  served  on  slices  of  toast,  with  milk  thickened  with  flour  and  butter, 
and  poured  over  it. 


CANNED  AND  PICKLED  FISH,  479 

COOKED  CANNED  SALMON. 

Set  the  can  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water  for  about  twenty  minutes ;  while 
it  is  heating  make  a  nice  drawing  of  butter,  add  chopped  parsley  and 
hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  fine ;  turn  your  salad  into  a  dish,  and  pour  over . 
the  drawing  of  butter;  this  eaten  with  mashed  potatoes  is  delicious  and 
like  fresh  salmon. 

No.  2 — Pour  the  oil  all  off  the  salmon,  mix  the  fish  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  cold  mashed  potatoes,  add  a  small  onion  chopped  very  fine, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  thyme.  Make  into  fishballs 
and  dip  into  eggs ;  fry  in  hot  butter. 

LA  BOUILLE  A  PECHE. 

Take  different  kinds  of  fish,  as  trout,  white  fish,  or  any  small  fish  that 
may  be  at  hand  and  a  few  well  cleaned  crabs.  Place  in  a  stewpan  a 
sliced  onion,  a  piece  of  garlic,  some  parsley  cut  fine,  a  piece  of  orange 
peet,  pepper,  salt  and  spice,  and  water  enough  to  cover  the  fish  and  a 
little  oil.  Let  this  mixture  cook  well,  cut  the  fish  in  pieces,  put  it  in, 
stir  all  well  together  and  cook  it  over  a  fierce  fire  from  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes. 

FISH  CAKES. 

Take  cold  boiled  cod,  either  fresh  or  salt,  add  two-thirds  as  much  hot 
mashed  potatoes  as  fish,,  a  little  butter,  two  or  three  well  beaten  eggs, 
and  enough  milk  to  make  a  smooth  paste,  season  with  pepper,  make 
into  nice  round  cakes  and  fry  brown  in  sweet  beef  drippings  or  very 
clear  sweet  lard. 

SPICED  FISH. 

Any  remains  of  cold  fresh  fish  may  be  used  in  this  way :  Take  out 
all  the  bones  and  bits  of  skin,  lay  in  a  deep  dish  and  barely  cover  with 
hot  vinegar  in  which  a  few  cloves  and  allspice  have  been  boiled.  It  is 
ready  for  use  as  soon  as  cold. 

SPICED  HALIBUT. 

Boil  two  or  three  pounds  of  halibut  in  salt  and  water  about  half  an 
hour,  then  put  it  in  a  stone  pot,  with  half  a  teaspoonful  each  of  cinna- 
mon, cloves,  nutmegs  and  allspice.  Cover  with  vinegar  and  shut  it  up. 
When  cold  it  is  a  nice  relish  for  luncheon  or  tea,  or  to  take  to  a  picnic. 

FILLET  OF  SOLE. 

Take  a  flounder  or  any  other  fish,  fry  a  nice  brown,  butter  well  all  the 
time  it  is  on  the  fire ;  serve  with  slices  of  lemon  and  tomato  sauce. 


480  FISH, 

BREAKFAST  HERRING. 

Place  the  herring  over  a  steamer  and  heat  them  well  through,  touch 
them  up  with  a  little  butter  and  have  a  dish  of  well  steamed  potatoes 
ready,  and  it  will  make  a  meal.  Or  chop  the  herring  very  fine,  mix  it  with 
mashed  potatoes  and  a  beaten  up  ^g%,  and  fry  in  a  little  butter,  and  it 
will  make  a  nice  potato  cake. 

HADDOCK. 

Steam  a  haddock  or  other  white  fish  and  take  the  flesh  off  the  bones. 
Beat  up  a  few  eggs  and  mix  with  a  few  bread  crumbs,  put  butter  in 
frizzling  pan,  pour  in  the  eggs,  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  the  fish  pieces, 
then  cover  with  other  half  of  eggs  and  frizzle  both  sides. 

BACALLAO  A  VISCAINO. 

Take  the  best  of  codfish  (not  haddock)  and  soak  over  night  in  fresh 
water ;  take  the  bones  out,  then  take  fresh  tomatoes,  slice  fine  into  an 
ordinary  stewpan,  with  just  a  sprinkling  of  garlic,  onion,  parsley,  and 
butter.  Then  put  in  a  layer  of  the  codfish,  then  again  another  layer  of 
tomatoes,  etc. — alternately  codfish  and  tomatoes  until  the  stewpan  is 
filled.  Set  on  a  slow  fire  and  cook,  or  rather  simmer,  for  two  hours 
with  tight  lid.     This  is  a  famous  Spanish  dish. 

FRENCH  FISH  STEW. 

Take  one  onion,  cut  very  fine,  have  lard  quite  hot  in  a  good-sized 
stewpan,  drop  the  onion  in  and  let  it  fry  brown,  dust  in  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour ;  as  soon  as  it  is  brown  pour  in  boiling  water.  Season  the 
gravy  with  salt,  black  and  red  pepper  and  a  piece  of  garlic.  Have  a 
good-sized  fish  cut  in  half,  put  it  in  the  stewpan,  having  enough  gravy 
to  cover  it.  Let  it  cook  slowly,  merely  simmering,  and  keep  well  cov- 
ered. When  tjie  fish  is  most  done  add  a  tumblerful  of  claret  wine  and 
a  wineglassful  of  Madeira.  Do  not  stir  it — just  shake  until  it  mixes ; 
let  simmer  a  few  minutes  and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  Take  the  fish  up  as 
whole  as  possible  and  put  on  dish.  Pour  gravy  over  it  and  garnish 
with  thin  slices  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsley  and  celery. 

FISH  PIE. 

Take  a  few  pieces  of  bacon  and  place  at  the  bottom  of  a  pie  dish. 
Cut  up  fresh  cod  or  fresh  haddock  and  place  over  it  in  layers,  finishing 
with  a  couple  of  slices  of  bacon.  Sprinkle  in  between  a  small  finely 
chopped  onion  and  parsley.  Flavor  with  pepper  and  salt.  Make  a 
brown  gravy  by  heating  a  piece  of  butter,  stirring  in  a  little  flour,  when 
brown  adding  some  warm  water  and  flavoring  with  a  spoonful  of  sauce 
or  brown  catsup.     Pour  over  fish.     Now  make  crust,  as  for  pot-pie,  and 


FRUITS.  481 

place  over.     Bake  gently  and  quickly,  so  as  not  to  dry  out  the  goodness 
of  the  fish.     Prepare  potatoes  plain,  steamed,  or  with  parsley  sauce. 

SCALLOPED  FISH. 

Take  a  pound  of  codfish,  pour  boiling  water  over  and  soak  until  fresh  ; 
pick  to  pieces  and  put  into  a  sauce  pan  with  boiling  water,  let  boil  for 
ten  minutes,  then  strain  the  water  off,  let  cool  and  pick  to  pieces.  Make 
a  sauce  of  half  pint  of  milk,  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  ^gg,  table- 
spoonful  each  of  flour  and  Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  little  cayenne 
pepper ;  let  boil,  then  spread  a  layer  of  fish  in  a  deep  dish,  cover  with 
sauce,  next  a  layer  of  fish,  then  sauce,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full, 
then  grate  a  slice  of  hard  bread,  spread  over  the  top  and  cover  with 
sauce,  put  in  the  oven  and  brown. 

FISH  MAYONNAISE. 

Take  one  pound  of  cold  boiled  haUbut,  rock  or  codfish,  and  cut  into 
pieces  one  inch  in  length.  Mix  in  a  bowl  a  dressing  as  follows :  The 
yolks  of  four  hard  boiled  eggs  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  salad  oil ; 
add  to  these  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar  and 
lastly  six  tablespoonfuls  good  vinegar ;  beat  the  mixture  until  light,  and 
just  before  serving  stir  in  lightly  the  frothed  white  of  one  egg.  Pour 
over  the  fish  half  the  dressing  with  six  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and 
spread  the  rest  of  the  dressing  over  the  top  and  lay  blanched  lettuce 
leaves  around  to  be  eaten  with  it. 

CORNISH  FISH  PIE. 

In  Cornwall  almost  every  kind  of  fish  is  put  into  a  pie,  well  floured  over 
with  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  onions,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  some 
broth  or  water,  and  a  nice  short  crust  over  it ;  there  is  a  hole  left  in  the 
crust  at  the  top,  and  through  this  hole  some  cream  is  poured  in  just 
before  serving. 


FRUITS. 


FRESH  FRUITS  FOR  THE  TABLE. 

In  placing  fruits  upon  the  table  much  taste  and  ingenuity  may  be 
displayed  in  the  arrangement.  Melons,  oranges  and  small  fruits,  are 
acceptable  and  appetizing  breakfast  dishes ;  and  a  raised  dessert  dish 
filled  with  tastefully  disposed  fruits  is  an  indispensable  adjunct  to 
the  dinner  table.  Melons  should  be  kept  on  ice,  so  that  they  are  com- 
pletely chilled  before  bringing  to  the  table,  though  the  ice  should  not 
31 


482  FRUITS. 

be  permitted  to  touch  the  inside  of  the  melon,  as  is  so  often  done, 
where  melons  are  brought  to  the  table  tilled  or  surrounded  with  broken 
ice.  Clip  the  ends  of  watermelons,  cut  them  across  in  halves,  set  up  on 
clipped  ends  in  a  platter,  or  melon  dish,  and  serve  the  pulp  only,  remov- 
ing it  with  a  spoon  ;  or,  cut  across  in  slices,  and  serve  with  rind.  Nut- 
meg melons  should  be  set  on  the  blossom  end,  and  cut  in  several  equal 
pieces  from  the  stem  downward,  leaving  each  alternate  piece  attached ; 
the  others  may  then  be  loosened  when  the  melon  is  ready  to  serve,  or 
the  melon  may  be  cut  in  lengthwise  strips  and  piled  up  on  a  melon 
platter. 

Fruit  should  be  carefully  selected  and  only  that  which  is  perfect  and 
ripe  be  served  on  the  table.  Grapes  and  oranges  surrounding  a  pine 
apple  make  a  pretty  center  piece.  The  best  oranges  are  the  Florida 
and  Havana.  A  rough  reddish  skin  covers  the  sweetest  oranges,  while 
the  light  yellow  thin  skin  covers  those  more  acid  and  juicy.  Fine 
grained  pears  are  best  for  eating,  the  California  and  Bartletts  taking  the 
lead.  The  little  Delaware  grape  is  the  sweetest  and  mixed  with  the 
California  Concords  and  Malagas,  makes  a  dish  beautiful  in  coloring 
and  rich  in  flavor.  Of  pineapples  the  best  flavor  is  secured  by  slicing 
them  thin  and  letting  them  stand  a  few  hours  thickly  sprinkled  with 
sugar.  Lady  fingers  served  with  pineapples  makes  a  nice  dessert.  In 
raisins  the  loose  Muscatels  and  layer  raisins  take  the  precedence,  served 
with  nuts  or  candy.  Hickory  nuts,  filberts,  almonds,  English  walnuts, 
American  walnuts  and  Brazil  nuts,  are  very  satisfactory'  served  with 
raisins,  as  they  require  but  little  trouble  to  get  out  the  meats,  and  should 
be  cracked  before  being  served  on  the  table — with  the  exception  of  soft- 
shell  almonds,  which  may  be  brought  on  with  raisins,  and  cracked  with 
nut-crackers  at  the  table. 

In  preparing  small  fruits  for  the  table  avoid  washing  them  if  possible, 
though  if  they  are  gritty  and  bought  at  the  market,  instead  of  being 
raised  in  one's  own  garden,  it  is  advisable  to  wash  them  in  cold  soft 
water,  a  few  at  a  time  in  the  hand,  until  they  look  clean,  and  then  hull 
them,  so  that  they  may  be  handled  as  little  as  possible.  After  being 
hulled,  put  a  layer  carefully  in  a  dish,  then  sprinkle  over  them  sugar, 
and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled ;  set  away  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to 
serve.  Never  drain  berries  in  a  colander  nor  stir  them  with  a  spoon. 
When  berries  are  very  large,  or  with  large  stems — as  currants  and 
strawberries — -they  are  neither  stemmed  or  hulled,  but  pulverized  sugar 
is  passed  and  the  fruit  is  taken  by  the  stem,  dipped  into  the  sugar  and 
eaten. 

Small  sugared  fruits  are  very  nice  for  dessert  and  make  a  handsome 
dish,  especially  for  lunch  or  supper  parties.  These  may  be  purchased 
at  the  confectioners.  Grapes,  currants  and  oranges  may  be  prepared  at 
home  in  the  following  manner :  Take  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  of 


FK  UIT  SA  UCES.  483 

water,  boil  them  slowly  together  for  thirty  minutes,  add  the  juice  of  one 
small  lemon,  and  then  place  the  vessel  in  a  basin  of  hot  water  to  pre- 
vent the  syrup  from  getting  stiff.  Dip  ripe  fruits  into  it,  and  lay  them 
upon  a  buttered  plate  until  cold.  Currants  may  be  dipped  by  holding 
them  by  their  stems.  Grapes  are  taken  up  on  the  point  of  a  long  pin. 
dipped  in  the  sugar,  and  laid  carefully  aside  to  dry.  Oranges  are 
removed  from  their  skins  and  pulled  apart  into  as  small  pieces  as  one 
likes,  and  then  dipped  with  the  assistance  of  the  pin,  after  the  fashion 
of  the  grapes.  These  articles  of  delicacy  are  not  only  delicious  but 
decorative.  The  sections  of  orange  may  be  arranged  prettily  about  the 
plate,  or  built  up  into  a  cone,  with  the  smaller  fruits  piled  into  the 
interstices  and  around  the  base. 

Or  an  easier  way  to  sugar  fruits  is  to  beat  the  white  of  the  ^^%  just 
enough  to  break,  then  dip  fine  stones  of  cherries  or  currants  into  the 
^g%  and  then  into  powdered  sugar,  and  dry  on  a  sieve.  A  fine  dessert 
of  cherries  is  produced  in  this  way :  Have  a  quantity  of  the  best,  ripest, 
and  reddest  cherries,  not  only  on  the  stems,  but  on  the  stalk  and  still  in 
leaf.  One  hour  before  you  sit  down  to  dinner,  put  these  bunches  in  the 
refrigerator.  Have  these  stalks  placed  on  a  large  china  dish  and  brought 
to  the  table  as  the  last  article  in  the  dessert.  They  are  now  not  only 
more  freshingly  cool,  but  they  are  covered  and  dripping  with  ice-cold 
dew,  every  separate  bead  and  drop  of  which  glistens  and  sparkles  like  a 
precious  gem.  The  cherries  are  now  set  in  diamonds.  This  caps  the 
climax  of  everything  in  the  way  of  an  elegant  and  appetizing  dessert. 

APPLE  MERINGUE. 

Stew  and  sweeten  ripe,  juicy,  tart  apples ;  mash  smooth  and  flavor 
with  lemon  juice  or  grated  peel,  and  put  in  a  dessert  dish  for  tea. 
Spread  over  the  apple  a  thick  meringue,  made  by  beating  to  a  stiff 
froth  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar  ;  flavor  with  vanilla ;  beat  until  it  v/ill  stand  alone,  and  cover  the 
sauce  very  thick ;  set  back  in  the  oven  until  set.     Eat  cold. 

PRESERVED  APPLES. 

Make  a  nice  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  and  put  in  some  small  pieces 
of  ginger  root  or  the  yellow  of  orange  peel;  have  some  good  firm  apples 
pared  and  halved — pippins  are  best — and  when  the  syrup  has  boiled  up 
three  or  four  times  and  been  skimmed,  drop  in  the  apples  and  cook 
until  transparent,  but  they  must  not  go  to  pieces.  Let  them  be  quite 
cold  before  eaten,  and  good  cream  greatly  improves  them. 

APPLE  OMELET. 

Six  large  pippins  or  other  tart  apples,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
three  eggs,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  nutmeg  to  the  taste,  and 


484  FRUITS, 

one  teaspoonful  of  rosewater ;  pare,  core  and  stew  the  apples,  as  for 
sauce;  beat  them  very  smooth  while  hot,  adding  butter,  sugar  and 
flavoring  ;  when  quite  cold  add  the  eggs,  beaten  separately  very  light ; 
put  in  the  whites  last  and  pour  into  a  deep  bake  dish  previously  warmed 
and  well  buttered.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  it  is  delicately 
browned.    Eat  warm — not  hot. 

STEAMED  APPLES. 

Select  nice,  sweet  apples,  wash  and  place  them  in  a  pan,  turn  a  little 
water  in  the  pan  and  stew,  turn  one-half  cup  sugar  over  as  many  apples 
as  will  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  then  cover  with  another  pan  and 
cook  till  done.  If  preferred,  stew  the  juice  down  and  turn  it  over  the 
apples.     They  are  much  nicer  than  when  baked. 

BAKED  APPLES  WITH  SYRUP. 

Materials — Half  a  dozen  apples,  half  a  pound  of  moist  sugar,  a  little 
cinnamon,  cloves  or  nutmeg.  Put  the  apples,  washed,  peeled  and 
cored,  into  a  deep  pie-dish,  half  filled  with  water,  and  add  the  above 
ingredients.  Let  all  stand  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  apples  are  soft  and 
brown  and  the  syrup  thick.  When  cold,  place  them  in  a  glass  dish, 
pouring  the  syrup  over  them. 

STEWED  APPLES. 

Pare  your  apples  and  place  them  in  a  steamer,  with  a  clove  in  each  ; 
then  steam  the  apples  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  until  soft ;  take 
them  up  in  the  fruit  dish  and  shake  powdered  sugar  over  them. 

ORANGE  SNOW. 

Peel  sweet  oranges,  slice  and  lay  them  in  a  glass  dish  with  alternate 
layers  of  grated  cocoa  nut  and  powdered  loaf  sugar,  leaving  a  layer  of 
cocoa  nut  on  top.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  glass  of  orange  and  lemon 
juice  mixed.     Place  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

PEACHES  WITH  RICE. 

Take  some  peaches  and  cut  them  in  halves ;  simmer  them  in  a  syrup 
for  half  an  hour,  then  drain  and  when  cold  arrange  them  on  a  dish 
round  a  shape  of  rice  made  as  follows :  Boil  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
rice,  picked  and  washed  clean,  in  a  pint  of  milk,  with  sugar  to  taste, 
and  a  piece  of  vanilla.  When  quite  done,  put  it  into  a  basin  to  get 
cold.  Make  a  custard  with  a  gill  of  milk  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs ; 
when  cold  mix  it  with  the  rice.  Beat  up  to  a  froth  a  gill  of  cream,  with 
some  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  isinglass  dissolved  in  a  little  water ;  mix 
this  very  lightly  with  the  rice  and  custard  ;  fill  a  mold  with  the  mixture 


FRUIT  SAUCES.  485 

and  set  it  on  ice.     When  moderately  iced  turn  it  out  on  a  dish  and 
serve. 

BAKED  PEARS  AND  CREAM. 

Peel  ripe  pears  and  cut  them  in  half,  without  removing  the  seeds. 
Pack  in  layers  in  a  stone  jar ;  strew  each  layer  with  sugar  arid  drop  a 
pinch  of  nutmeg  in  now  and  then.  Put  a  small  cup  of  water  in  the 
bottom  to  prevent  burning.  Fit  on  a  cover  and  set  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Bake  three  hours,  and  leave  unopened  in  the  oven  all  night.  Set  upon 
ice  for  some  hours  before  you  use  them.  Pour  into  a  glass  dish  and 
eat  with  cream.     This  is  a  delicious  dish,  if  the  pears  are  of  fair  quality. 

BAKED  APPLES. 

Pare  a  dozen  or  more  apples,  take  out  the  cores  carefully  and  fill  the 
center  of  each  apple  with  sugar  and  a  small  lump  of  butter.  Put  them 
in  a  pan  with  half  a  pint  of  water ;  baste  occasionally  with  the  syrup 
while  baking.     When  done  serve  with  cream. 

FRUIT  JELLY. 

Break  up  an  ounce  of  the  best  Russian  gum  isinglass ;  boil  it  until 
dissolved,  in  a  pint  of  water ;  add  a  quart  of  boiling  water  and  white 
sugar  (to  sweeten  it  to  taste)  ;  add  lemon ;  strain  one-third  of  it  into  a 
deep  bowl ;  put  it  on  ice  or  in  water  to  harden ;  when  firm  sprinkle  a 
layer  of  berries  or  fruit  already  sweetened  ;  add  half  of  the  remaining 
jelly  ;  then  another  layer  of  fruit  and  the  rest  of  the  jelly.  When  cold 
turn  out  on  a  dish,  and  if  your  jelly  is  clear  you  can  see  the  fruit. 

QUINCE  SNOW. 

One-third  pound  of  quince  marmalade  to  whites  of  two  eggs  and 
quarter  pound  of  sugar ;  pile  in  a  pyramid  in  a  dish  and  bake  a  pale 
yellow. 

ORANGE  SNOW. 

Four  large,  sweet  oranges ;  juice  of  all  and  grated  peel  of  one ;  juice 
and  half  the  grated  peel  of  one  lemon  ;  one  package  of  gelatine  soaked 
in  a  cup  of  cold  water ;  whites  of  four  eggs  whipped  stiff ;  one  large 
cup  of  powdered  sugar ;  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Mix  juice  and  peel 
of  the  fruit  with  the  soaked  gelatine,  add  the  sugar,  stir  up  well  and  let 
stand  an  hour.  Then  pour  on  the  boiling  water  and  stir  until  clear. 
Strain  through  a  coarse  cloth,  pressing  and  wringing  it  hard.  When 
quite  cold,  whip  in  the  frothed  whites  gradually,  until  thick  and  white. 
Put  into  wet  mold  for  eight  hours. 


486  FRUITS. 

GOOSEBERRY  FOOL. 

Take  green  gooseberries ;  to  every  pint  of  pulp  add  one  pint  of 
milk,  or  one-half  pint  of  cream  and  one-half  pint  of  milk ;  sugar  to 
taste.  Cut  the  tops  and  tails  of  the  gooseberries ;  put  thiem  in  a  jar 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and  a  little  moist  sugar.  Set  this 
jar  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  until  the  fruit  is 
soft  enough  to  mash.  When  done  enough  beat  it  to  a  pulp,  work  this 
pulp  through  a  colander,  and  stir  to  every  pint  the  above  proportions  of 
milk,  or  equal  quantities  of  cream  and  milk.  Ascertain  if  the  mixture 
is  sweet  enough,  and  put  in  plenty  of  sugar,  or  it  will  not  be  eatable ; 
and  in  mixing  the  milk  and  gooseberries,  add  the  former  very  gradually 
to  these.  This,  although  a  very  old-fashioned  and  homely  dish,  is, 
when  well  made,  very  delicious,  and  a  verj'  suitable  dish  for  children. 

FRIED  APPLES. 

Quarter  tart  apples  without  peeUng ;  have  some  nice  salt  pork  fry- 
ings,  or  butter  if  preferred,  and  lay  the  apples  close  together,  skin  side 
down ;  cover  till  well  steamed  ;  then  uncover  and  brown  both  sides 
turning  and  watching  closely  to  prevent  burning. 

ORANGE  SNOWBALLS. 

Boil  some  rice  for  ten  minutes,  drain  and  allow  it  to  cool ;  pare  some 
oranges  closely  :  spread  the  rice,  as  many  portions  as  there  are  oranges, 
on  some  pudding  cloths ;  tie  the  fruit,  surrounded  by  the  rice,  sepa- 
rately in  these  and  boil  the  balls  for  one  hour;  turn  them  out  carefully 
on  a  flat  dish;  a  colored  dish  is  prettiest,  of  the  green  majolica  that  is  now 
so  inexpensive ;  sprinkle  them  with  a  quantity  of  pounded  sugar  candy 
(the  bright  colored  steam  candy  that  comes  done  up  in  pound  packages 
makes  a  pretty  flavoring  and  sweetening  when  crushed  fine  with  a  roll- 
ing pin);  serve  with  sauce  or  sweetened  cream. 

MOONSHINE. 

Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  into  a  very  stiff  froth,  then  add  gradually 
six  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  beating  for  not  less  than  fifteen 
minutes ;  then  beat  in  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  preserved  peaches 
cut  in  tiny  bits.  In  serving,  pour  in  each  saucer  some  rich  cream  sweet- 
ened and  flavored  with  vanilla,  and  on  the  cream  place  a  liberal  portion 
of  the  moonshine.     This  quantity  is  enough  for  seven  or  eight  persons. 

PEACH  FLOAT. 

The  whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  six  peaches  stewed 
until  soft  enough  to  mash;  sweeten  peaches  to  taste  and  mix  in  the 
whites  of  the  eggs. 


FR  UIT  SA  UCES,  487 


RASPBERRY  FLOAT. 

Crush  a  pint  of  very  ripe  red  raspberries  with  a  gill  of  sugar ;  beat 

the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  gradually  a  gill  of  pow- 
dered sugar  ;  press  the  raspberries  through  a  fine  strainer  to  avoid  the 
seeds,  and  by  degrees  beat  in  the  juice  with  the  ^^^  and  sugar  until  so 
stiff  that  it  stands  in  peaks. 

RASPBERRY  CHARLOTTE. 

Take  a  dozen  of  the  square  or  oblong  sponge  cakes  that  are  com- 
monly called  Naples  biscuits;  they  should  be  quite  fresh ;  spread  over 
each  a  thick  layer  of  raspberry  jam  and  place  them  in  the  bottom  and 
round  the  sides  of  a  glass  bowl ;  take  the  whites  of  six  eggs  and  mix 
with  them  six  tablespoonfuls  raspberry  or  currant  jelly ;  beat  the  eggs 
and  jelly  till  very  light  and  then  fill  up  the  bowl  with  it ;  for  this  pur- 
pose cream  (if  you  can  conveniently  procure  it)  is  still  better  than 
white  of  eggs.  You  may  make  a  charlotte  with  any  sort  of  jam,  mar- 
malade or  fruit  jelly.  This  can  be  prepared  at  a  short  notice  and  is  a 
very  nice  dish. 

GOOSEBERRY  TRIFLE. 

Scald  the  fruit,  press  it  through  a  sieve,  and  add  sugar  to  taste.  Make 
a  thick  layer  of  this  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Mix  a  pint  of  milk,  a 
pint  of  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  scald  it  over  the  fire,  stir- 
ring it  well ;  add  a  small  quantity  of  sugar  and  let  it  get  cold.  Then 
lay  it  over  the  gooseberries  with  a  spoon,  and  put  on  the  whole  a  whip 
made  the  day  before. 

BERRY  FLOATING  ISLAND. 

Fill  a  glass  dish  half  full  of  nice  ripe  berries  and  sprinkle  over  them 
a  little  sugar;  add  to  a  pint  of  sweet  cream  two  spoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
set  your  dish  on  ice,  while  you  whip  the  cream  till  it  will  stay  in  form ; 
lay  it  in  spoonfuls  over  your  berries  and  serve,  or  serve  in  ^g^  glasses 
by  filling  them  half  full  of  berries  and  laying  the  cream  on  top. 

APPLE  SNOW. 

Put  twelve  tart  apples  in  cold  water  over  a  slow  fire,  when  soft  skin 
and  core.  Mix  in  a  pint  of  sifted  white  sugar ;  beat  the  whites  of  twelve 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  to  the  apple  and  sugar.  Put  in  a  dessert 
dish  and  ornament  with  myrtle.     It  will  be  found  much  better  if  frozen. 

POMME  MANGE. 

Peel  and  core  one  pound  of  apples,  and  put  them  with  half  a  pound 
of  sugar  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  water  into  a  stew  pan ;  add  the  peel 


488  FRUITS. 

of  a  lemon.     Allow  it  to  boil  until  it  becomes  quite  stiff,  and  then  put 
it  into  a  mold. 

FRUIT  BLANC  MANGE. 
If  the  fruit  is  fresh  or  canned  use  the  pure  juice ;  if  preserved  or  jel- 
lied reduce  it  with  water  ;  add  sufficient  corn  starch,  or  imperial  granum 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water,  to  the  boiling  juice  to  make  a  quaky 
jelly,  but  not  so  firm  as  blanc  mange.  Let  all  boil  together  for  two  or 
three  minutes,  then  pour  into  a  dish  to  cook.  Serve  ice-cold  with  rich 
cream  and  powdered  sugar.  This  is  a  light,  delicious  dessert  in  hot 
weather. 

PEACH  LICHE  CREMA. 

Twelve  ripe  peaches  pared,  stoned  and  cut  in  halves,  three  eggs  and 
the  whites  of  two  more,  one-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  wet  in  cold  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter,  one  pint  of  milk.  Scald  the  milk,  stir  in  the  corn  starchy  and 
when  it  begins  to  thicken,  take  from  the  fire  and  put  in  the  butter. 
When  lukewarm,  whip  in  the  beaten  yolks  until  all  are  very  light.  Put 
a  thick  layer  of  peaches  into  a  dish,  stew  with  sugar  and  pour  the  creamy 
compound  over  them.  Bake  in  an  oven  ten  minutes  and  spread  with  a 
meringue  of  five  whites  whipped  stiff  with  a  little  sugar.  Set  in  the  oven 
until  a  light  brown.     Eat  cold  with  cream. 

BAKED  QUINCES. 

Pare  and  quarter,  extract  the  seeds  and  stew  the  fruit  in  clear  cold 
water  until  a  straw  will  pierce  them ;  put  mto  a  baking  dish  with  a  half 
cup  sugar  to  every  eight  quinces,  pour  over  the  liquor  in  which  they 
were  boiled,  cover  closely  and  steam  in  the  oven  one  hour,  then  take 
out  the  quinces,  lay  them  in  a  covered  bowl  to  keep  warm,  return  the 
syrup  to  the  saucepan  and  boil  twenty  minutes ;  pour  over  the  fruit  and 
set  away  covered,  to  cool.     Eat  cold. 

APPLE  PUFFS. 

Pare  and  core  the  fruit,  and  either  stew  them  in  a  stone  jar,  or  bake 
them.  When  cold,  mix  the  pulp  of  the  apple  with  sugar  and  lemon 
peel  shred  fine,  taking  as  little  of  the  apple  juice  as  you  can.  Bake 
them  in  a  thin  paste  in  a  quick  oven  ;  a  quarter  of  an  hour  will  do  them, 
if  small.     Quince  marmalade  or  cinnamon  pounded  is  an  improvement. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  cranberries,  put  on  to  cook  in  a  tin  or  porce- 
lain vessel,  allowing  a  teacup  of  water  to  each  quart.  Stew  slowly, 
stirring  often  until  they  are  as  thick  as  marmalade.     Take  from  the  fire 


FRUIT  SAUCES.  489 

in  little  over  one  hour,  if  they  have  cooked  steadily,  sweeten  plentifully 
with  white  sugar  and  strain  through  a  coarse  tarlatan  or  mosquito  net 
into  a  mold  wet  with  cold  water.  Do  this  the  day  before  they  are 
needed,  and  then  turn  out  into  a  glass  dish. 

STEWED  PEARS. 

Peel  pears,  place  them  in  a  little  water,  with  sugar,  cloves,  cinnamon 
and  lemon  peel.  Stew  gently,  and  add  one  glass  of  cider.  Dish  up 
cold. 

PAINTED  LADIES. 

Remove  the  eyes  and  stalks  from  some  nice  round-looking  apples  that 
will  cook  well,  and  peel  them  very  evenly  to  preserve  their  shape. 
Place  them  in  a  shallow  stewpan  large  enough  to  hold  them  in  one 
layer.  Dissolve  loaf  sugar  in  sufficient  water  to  completely  cover  the 
apples,  allowing  four  ounces  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  water  ;  add  a  few 
cloves  and  a  httle  lemon  peel  and  stick  cinnamon.  Cover  the  stewpan 
and  simmer  the  apples  very  gently,  or  they  will  break  before  being 
cooked  thoroughly.  When  done,  and  they  are  cool  enough,  lift  them 
carefully  to  a  glass  dish,  and  with  a  small  brush  tint  them  delicately  on 
one  side  with  a  little  liquid  cochineal  or  melted  red  currant  jelly ;  strain 
the  syrup,  return  it  to  the  stewpan  and  boil  it  rapidly  until  reduced  to 
one-third  of  a  pint.  When  cold  stir  to  it  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and 
pour  it  round  but  not  over  the  apples. 

SUGARED  ORANGES. 

Take  eight  fine  sweet  oranges  peeled  and  sliced,  one-half  cocoanut 
grated,  one-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar ;  arrange  the  orange  in  a  glass 
dish,  scatter  the  cocoanut  thickly  over  it  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  sugar; 
cover  with  another  layer  of  orange  ;  fill  up  the  dish  in  alternate  layers. 

AMBROSIA. 

Six  fine  sweet  oranges  peeled  and  sliced ;  place  in  a  glass  (shallow) 
dish  very  nicely ;  cover  with  grated  cocoanut,  a  thick  layer,  then  about 
one-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar. 

BLACKBERRY  MUSH. 

Stew  the  berries  and  sweeten  to  taste ;  after  they  are  cooked  soft, 
stir  in  flour  smoothly  to  about  the  thickness  of  stiff  paste ;  cook  slightly 
after  stirring  in  the  flour,  and  pour  into  glass  molds.  This  is  to  be 
eaten  cold  with  cream. 


490  CANNED  FRUIT  AND    VEGETABLES. 


LEMON  BUTTER. 


Beat  six  eggs,  one-fourth  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  the 
rind  and  juice  of  three  lemons,  mix  together  and  set  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water.     Very  nice  for  tarts  or  to  eat  with  bread. 


PINEAPPLES. 


Cut  them  into  dice  or  thin  slices,  saturate  them  with  sugar,  let  them 
stand  a  few  hours,  pile  them  in  the  center  of  a  glass  dish  with  a  row  of 
sponge  cake  slices,  or  of  ladies'  fingers  around  the  sides. 


CAXXED  FRUIT  AXD  VEGETABLES. 

Fruit  should  be  selected  carefully  and  all  that  is  imperfect  rejected. 
The  highest-flavored  and  best-preserving  fruits  are  those  put  up  with- 
out paring,  after  having  carefully  removed  the  down  with  a  fine  but  stiff 
brush.  Glycerine  of  purest  quality  has  been  recommended  for  the 
preservation  of  fruits,  previous  to  eating  which,  the  glycerine  should 
be  removed  by  immersing  the  fruit  in  water.  To  keep  apples  and 
pears  fresh,  gather  the  fruit  during  a  dry  day,  and  put  it  at  once 
into  earthen  glazed  pans,  deep  enough  to  contain  two  or  three  layers 
of  fruit,  and  each  one  having  a  tightly-fitting  lid.  If  the  fruit  sweats, 
the  exudation  dries  on  the  fruit's  surface,  and  helps  to  keep"  in  the 
moisture  and  flavor.  The  cover  helps  to  do  the  same,  and  to  exclude 
the  light.  Keep  the  pans  in  a  cool,  dcnj  place,  and  never  wipe  the 
fruit  until  required  for  dessert.  Pears  may  be  kept  in  the  same  way, 
but  require  constant  watching.  After  fruit  has  been  allowed  to  lay  on 
the  shelves  in  the  fruit-room,  and  sweat,  they  should  be  wiped  dry  and 
packed  in  boxes,  with  dry  sawdust  enough  to  exclude  the  air  from  them. 
The  sawdust  from  resinous  woods  should  not  be  used.  If  they  were 
packed  in  dry  sand  they  would  keep  equally  well,  but  it  is  difficult  to 
clean  them  from  the  sand,  and  therefore  they  are  gritty,  which  is 
unpleasant. 

Large  fruit  such  as  peaches,  pears,  etc.,  are  in  the  best  condition  to  can 
when  not  quite  fully  ripe  and  should  be  put  up  as  soon  as  possible  after 
picking.  Small  fruit,  such  as  berries,  should  never  stand  over  night  if 
it  is  possible  to  avoid  it.  Use  only  the  best  sugar  in  the  proportion  of 
half  a  pound  to  a  pound  of  fruit,  varying  the  rule,  of  course,  with  the 
sweetness  of  the  fruit. 

Raspberries  and  blackberries  are  best  for  pies ;  huckleberries  also 
are  excellent  for  pies,  and  easily  canned.  Pie-plant  can  be  stewed  till 
tender.     It  requires  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit. 


CANNED  FRUIT.  491 

For  peaches,  gages,  etc.,  allow  the  same  amount  of  sugar  as  for  rasp- 
berries. Pare  peaches,  and  can  whole  or  in  halves,  as  preferred.  Prick 
plums  and  gages  with  a  large  darning  needle  to  prevent  their  bursting. 
In  canning  pears,  pare  and  drop  at  once,  into  cold  water,  as  this  pre- 
vents their  turning  dark. 

Always  use  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  and  stir  either  with  a  silver  or 
wooden  spoon — never  an  iron  one.  Currants  are  nice  mixed  with  an 
equal  weight  of  raspberries,  and  pears  are  improved  by  adding  quinces 
or  lemon-peel.  If  equal  quantities  of  quince  and  apple  are  canned 
together,  it  will  taste  as  if  quinces  entirely. 

To  clarify  sugar  for  canning  break  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  in  small 
pieces,  put  it  into  a  two-quart  copper  pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  water 
and  the  white  of  one  ^gg,  and  stir  it  well  with  an  ^gg  whisk.  Have  a 
cup  of  cold  water  ready  and  throw  in  a  little  when  the  sugar  begins  to 
rise  in  the  pan.  Let  it  rise  three  times  and  then  skim  it  until  it  is  clear, 
throwing  in  a  little  cold  water  every  time  it  begins  to  rise.  Then  strain 
it  through  a  flannel  bag,  and  after  it  is  cool  bottle  it  until  needed  for 
use.  It  is  said  by  scientists  that  cane  sugar,  when  added  to  boiling 
fruit,  is  converted  by  the  heat  into  grape  sugar,  which  has  far  less 
sweetening  power  than  cane  sugar.  Therefore  they  advise  housekeep- 
ers to  sweeten  their  fruits,  not  when  they  are  canned,  but  when  they 
are  brought  on  the  table  for  consumption. 

The  first  step  in  canning  should  be  to  test  the  cans  thoroughly,  and 
see  if  any  leak  or  are  cracked.  If  the  cans  leak  send  them  to  the  tin- 
ners and  see  that  they  are  properly  mended,  but  it  is  poor  economy  to 
use  tin  cans,  for  if  they  corrode,  or  the  tin  happens  to  be  eaten  off,  there 
is  great  danger  of  poisoning,  so,  after  all,  glass  cans  are  the  cheapest. 
Never  use  defective  cans,  but  keep  them  for  storing  things  in  the 
pantry  or  cellars ;  and  in  buying  them  take  care  that  they  are  free 
from  flaws  or  bhsters,  or  they  are  apt  to  break  when  canning.  Self- 
sealers  are  very  convenient,  but  the  heat  hardens  the  rubber  rings 
which  are  difficult  to  replace,  so  that  in  a  year  or  two  they  are  unfit  for 
use.  For  this  reason  many  prefer  those  with  a  groove  around  the  top 
for  sealing  with  putty.  Putty  may  be  bought  ready  for  use,  and  is  soon 
made  soft  by  holding  it  in  the  hand.  In  using  it  should  be  worked  out 
in  a  small  roll,  and  pressed  into  the  groove  with  a  knife,  care  being 
taken  to  keep  it  well  pressed  down  as  the  can  cools.  The  putty  can 
then  be  removed  with  a  knife  when  ready  to  use  the  fruit. 

The  second  step  is  to  place  two  jars  in  a  dish  with  a  folded  towel 
saturated  with  cold  water  under  them.  Put  a  silver  spoon  in  each  jar, 
Use  a  can-filler  (which  is  a  tin  with  sloping  sides  and  no  bottom,  fitting 
into  the  top  of  the  jar),  and  a  ladle  of  a  small  pitcher,  if  you  have  no 
can-filler.  When  the  fruit  is  ready,  fill  the  jar  full,  move  the  spoon 
around  to  let  out  the  air,  and  remove  it ;  then  fill  the  jar  to  overflowing 


492  CANNED  FRUIT. 

with  juice,  and  screw  on  the  top  as  speedily  as  possible.  When  all  are 
full  wash  the  jars  and  wipe  them  dry,  give  the  tops  an  additional  turn 
as  the  glass  cools  and  contracts  and  loosens  them,  then  turn  them 
upside  down  to  stand  over  night.  Label  the  jars,  put  them  in  a  cool, 
dark  closet,  and,  if  the  work  is  properly  done,  you  will  never  have  a 
single  fizzle.  After  the  fruit  is  used  the  rubber  will  be  kept  in  better 
condition  if  it  is  put,  clean  and  dry,  inside  of  the  jar,  which  should  also 
be  thoroughly  cleansed  and  put  away  with  the  top  screwed  on. 

To  pare  peaches — Make  a  strong  white  lye,  have  it  scalding  hot ; 
drop  the  peaches  in  for  two  or  three  seconds,  skim  them  into  cold 
water,  and  with  the  hand  rub  the  skins  off. 

To  can  peaches  by  the  cold  process — Pare  and  halve  the  peaches, 
pack  them  as  closely  as  possible  in  a  can  without  any  sugar.  When  the 
can  is  full,  pour  in  sufficient  cold  water  to  fill  all  the  interstices  between 
the  peaches  and  reach  the  brim  of  the  can.  Let  it  stand  long  enough 
for  the  water  to  soak  into  all  the  crevices — say  six  hours — then  pour  in 
the  water  to  replace  what  has  sunk  away.  Seal  up  the  can  and  all  is 
done.  Canned  in  this  way,  peaches  retain  all  their  freshness  and  flavor. 
There  will  not  be  enough  water  to  render  them  insipid.  If  preferred,  a 
cold  syrup  could  be  used  instead  of  pure  water,  but  the  peaches  taste 
most  natural  without  sweetening. 

None  of  the  canned  fruits  that  are  bought  can  compare  with  those 
put  up  at  home,  if  properly  canned.  Peaches  gain  infinitely  by  having 
the  kernels  extracted  and  slightly  cooked  in  the  syrup,  and  poured  with 
it  over  the  peaches.  This  is  the  reason  why  bought  canned  peaches 
are  so  often  tastless  ;  those  who  can  in  large  quantities  will  not  take 
this  trouble. 

The  most  perfect  canned  fruits  are  those  that  are  selected  and  per- 
fect, then  peeled  with  a  thin,  sharp,  silver  fruit  knife,  which  does  not 
discolor  them,  and  immediately  plunged  into  cold  water  in  an  earthen 
or  wooden  vessel,  to  prevent  the  air  from  darkening  them.  As  soon  as 
enough  for  one  can  is  prepared,  it  is  put  up  by  laying  the  fruit,  piece  by 
piece  in  the  can,  and  pouring  syrup  pure  as  crystal  over  it,  and  then, 
after  subjecting  it  to  the  usual  heat,  sealing  up. 

As  soon  as  the  fruit  is  canned  wrap  v/ith  brown  wrapping  paper 
unless  the  fruit  closet  is  very  dark.  Light  injures  the  fruit,  especially 
strawberries  or  tomatoes.  The  fruit  closet  should  be  cool  and  dry,  for 
if  too  warm  the  fruit  will  spoil,  and  if  too  damp  it  will  mold.  The 
strawberries  are  best  kept  if  buried  in  sand,  as  this  excludes  both  light 
and  air.  Cans  should  be  examined  two  or  three  days  after  filling,  and 
if  syrup  leaks  out  around  the  rim  they  should  be  unsealed  and  the  fruit 
thoroughly  cooked  and  kept  for  jam  and  jelly,  as  it  will  have  lost  the 
delicacy  of  color  and  flavor  so  desirable  in  canned  fruits.  Pint  cans 
are  better  for  berries  than  quart. 


CANNED  FRUIT  AND   VEGETABLES.  493 

SWEET  APPLES. 

Take  ten  pounds  of  apples  (after  they  are  pared  and  quartered),  and 
five  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  spices  to  suit  the  taste ;  steam 
the  apples  till  they  are  soft,  put  them  in  the  sugar  and  vinegar,  cook  a 
few  minutes  and  then  can. 

BEANS  OR  PEAS. 

Get  tin  cans  with  covers  which  solder  on.  Fill  your  cans  full  with 
peas  shelled  and  prepared  as  you  would  to  cook  them,  then  solder  the 
covers  on ;  put  into  a  kettle  and  boil  three  hours  ;  then  take  out  of  the 
water  and  make  a  hole  in  the  can  with  a  shingle  nail  to  let  the  air  out  ; 
then  solder  up  again  and  boil  two  hours  longer.  Several  cans  can  be 
done  at  the  same  time.  Green  corn,  lima  and  string  beans  can  be  put 
up  in  the  same  v/ay.  When  you  use  them  soak  a  short  time  in  warm 
water ;  then  cook  and  season  the  same  as  fresh  ones  with  the  addition 
of  a  small  bit  of  saleratus. 

STRING  BEANS. 

Take  them  when  young  and  tender,  string  and  cut  as  for  the  table, 
have  water  boiHngwitha  little  salt  in,  throw  in  a  fewhandfuls  of  beans, 
let  them  boil  up  once,  skim  out  in  a  common  crock ;  when  full  pour  on 
a  cold  brine  precisely  the  same  as  for  cucumber  pickles  and  care  for 
them  in  the  same  way.  When  wanted  for  use,  freshen  over  night,  boil 
and  prepare  them  as  you  always  do  in  summer.  If  you  desire  them  to 
look  very  green,  throw  in  a  bit  of  alum  when  cooking. 

CHERRIES. 

Six  ounces  of  sugar  to  one  quart  of  cherries ;  boil  moderately  for  five 
minutes  ;  have  the  cans  hot  and  seal  while  warm. 


SWEET  CORN. 

Take  the  best  sweet  corn  for  table  use  ;  when  tender  cut  from  the 
cob  before  cooking ;  put  it  in  glass  cans,  and  with  the  small  end  of  the 
potato-masher  pack  it  tight ;  when  full  put  on  the  rubber  and  screw  on 
the  cover  almost  tight ;  place  cloth  on  the  bottom  of  the  wash  boiler, 
lay  in  the  cans  one  over  another,  cover  with  cold  water ;  when  it  comes 
to  a  boil,  boil  three  hours  ;  take  out  and  screw  on  the  covers  perfectly 
tight.  If  the  covers  are  not  tight  enough  then  boiling  water  will  get  in. 
Corn  put  up  this  way  is  as  fresh  as  in  summer ;  all  the  flavor  is  pre- 
served, and  there  is  no  trouble  in  keeping.  Peas  may  be  canned  in  the 
same  way. 


4:94:  CANNED  FRUIT, 

CORN  PUT  UP  IN  JARS. 
Gather  the  corn  when  in  good  eating  state  ;  place  the  corn,  cob  and 
all,  in  a  vessel  and  pour  boiling' water  over  it;  let  it  rerhain  in  the  hot 
water  three  to  five  minutes,  then  cut  the  corn  from  the  cob,  put  a  layer 
of  corn  then  a  layer  of  salt  in  large  stone  jars  ;  when  full  weight  down, 
and  keep  adding  layers  as  the  corn  sinks  down  in  the  jar.  The  salt 
makes  a  brine  without  water.  When  used  soak  all  night  in  clear  cold 
water. 

CORN  WITH  ACID. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  and  a  quarter  of  tartaric  acid  in  half  a  pint  of 
water,  cut  the  corn  from  the  cob  and  add  sufficient  water  to  cook  it 
properly.  When  cooked  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  acid  solution  to 
ever}^  quart  of  com.  Can  it  immediately;  seal  securely  and  put  it  away 
in  a  cool,  dry  place.  When  wanted  to  use  stir  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda  through  two  quarts  of  corn,  and  let  it  stand  a  little  while  before 
cooking.  Do  not  cook  it  in  tin,  as  it  is  sure  to  turn  yellow.  Season 
with  cream  or  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  you  will  say  it  is  nice  indeed. 
Beans  and  peas  can  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  and  are  delicious. 

GREEN  GOOSEBERRIES. 

Cut  off  the  tops  and  stalks  and  put  them  in  wide-mouthed  bottles, 
which  have  been  washed  and  dried,  cork  them  tightly  and  set  them  in  a 
can  of  cold  water ;  put  it  over  the  fire  and  let  it  remain  till  it  boils. 
The  berries  should  not  be  suffered  to  break.  Wipe  the  bottles  and  put 
m  a  dry  place  ;  they  will  keep  a  year.     Cook  as  fresh  berries. 

GRAPES. 

The  Isabella  grape  is  the  best  to  can,  as  the  skin  remains  soft  after 
boiling.  Take  a  basket  of  grapes  and  pick  them  off  of  the  stems ; 
wash  them  in  cold  water,  then  take  each  grape  and  squeeze  the  pulps 
into  a  pan,  putting  the  skins  in  another  pan.  Set  the  pulps  on  the 
stove,  and  boil  till  they  separate  from  the  seeds,  then  stir  through  a 
colander,  which  will  strain  the  pulps  (clear  from  the  seeds)  into  a  pan 
w'lxh  the  skins.  If  you  wish  to  can  them,  add  sufficient  sugar  to  give 
them  a  pleasant  flavor,  stew  them,  and  can  in  the  usual  way,  but  if  you 
wish  to  preserve,  take  the  same  quantity  of  sugar  as  you  have  grapes, 
and  cook  them  rather  more  than  for  canning,  being  careful  not  to 
scorch  them. 

TO  KEEP  GRAPES. 

Select  nice  fresh  clusters,  cut  the  end  of  the  stem  smooth  and  dip 
it  into  melted  sealing  wax,  then  put  it  in  cotton  batting,  pack  them 
away  in  wooden  boxes,  and  keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place.     In  this  way 


CANNED  FRUIT.  495 

they  will  keep  fresh  all  winter.  Another  way :  Take  full  bunches,  ripe 
and  perfect ;  seal  the  end  that  is  cut  from  the  vine  so  that  no  air  can  get 
in,  or  the  juice  of  the  stem  run  out;  let  them  stand  one  day  after 
sealed,  so  as  to  be  perfectly  sure  they  are  covered  (if  not  they  will  shrivel 
up) ;  then  pack  in  boxes  of  dry  saw-dust,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place ;  they 
will  keep  nicely  all  winter  without  losing  their  flavor ;  in  packing,  do 
not  crowd  the  bunches ;  sprinkle  the  saw-dust  over  the  bottom  of  the 
box,  then  lay  the  grapes  carefully,  a  bunch  at  a  time,  all  over  the  box, 
then  saw-dust  and  grapes,  alternately,  until  the  box  is  full. 

PEACHES. 

Pare,  halve  and  stone ;  make  a  syrup  of  a  pint  of  granulated  sugar  to  a 
quart  of  water,  place  on  the  stove  in  a  porcelain  kettle  (enough  for  two 
quarts).  When  the  syrup  boils,  drop  in  enough  fruit  for  one  can,  watch 
closely,  testing  with  a  silver  fork,  so  that  the  moment  they  are  done 
they  can  be  removed.  When  the  peaches  are  tender,  lift  very  gently 
with  a  wire  spoon  and  place  in  the  can,  previously  heated.  When  full 
of  peaches  pour  in  the  hot  syrup,  place  the  cover  on  and  seal  at  once ; 
then  add  more  peaches  to  the  hot  syrup  for  the  next  can  and  repeat  the 
operation.  Keep  the  syrup  hot  until  more  are  ready,  and  so  on  until 
all  are  canned.  Skim  the  syrup  before  adding  the  peaches,  making 
only  enough  syrup  at  one  time  for  two  cans. 

AIR-TIGHT  PEACHES. 

White  peaches  are  best  to  can,  and  though  they  cost  more,  are  really 
cheaper,  for  they  are  more  solid ;  always  keep  better  and  the  flavor  is 
infinitely  finer.  Whether  white  or  yellow  fruit  is  used  always  leave  the 
stone  attached.  Pare  your  peaches  and  leave  them  whole,  or  ciit  them 
as  preferred.  Pack  them  in  jars,  not  too  tight,  and  cover  with  cold 
water.  When  all  are  packed,  pour  off  the  water  into  a  preserving  kettle  ; 
and  to  every  quart  jar  allow  a  quarter  pound  of  sugar.  Melt  these 
together  till  a  syrup  is  formed.  While  it  is  preparing  set  your  jars 
(filled  with  peaches)  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  and  leave  them  till  the 
water  boils  around  them  and  they  are  thoroughly  heated  through  ;  then 
pour  the  syrup  on  them  and  fit  the  covers  on  immediately. 

PEARS. 

Allow  one-half  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit ;  prepare  a  syrup  ;  add 
pears  and  cook  until  tender ;  skim  out  and  boil  syrup  until  rather  thick ; 
return  the  pears;  let  them  boil  up,  and  can  while  hot;  halve  pears  for 
canning. 

PEAS. 

Shell  them  ;  throw  into  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt ;  boil  five  or  six 
minutes ;  drain  in  a  colander,  then  on  a  cloth  until  dry,  and  place  in  a 


496  CANNED  FRUIT. 

tight  bottle,  or  use  wide-mouthed  bottles,  not  quite  full,  and  pour  over 
fried  mutton-fat  so  as  to  cover  the  peas ;  cork  tightly,  covering  with 
resm  or  sealing  wax.  When  used,  boil  until  tender  and  season  with 
butter. 

PIE  PLANT. 

Skin  and  cut  as  for  pie ;  fill  a  glass  can  as  full  as  possible,  then  fill  up 
with  cold  water ;  screw  on  the  cover ;  no  cooking  or  heating.  The 
fruit  will  be  as  nice  another  year  as  that  fresh  from  your  garden. 

PLUMS. 

Wash  and  put  whole  into  a  syrup  made  in  the  proportion  of  a  pint  of 
water  and  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  two  pounds  of  fruit ;  boil  for  eight 
minutes,  can  and  seal  immediately.  If  pricked  with  a  fork  before  pla- 
cing in  syrup  they  will  be  less  liable  to  burst. 

PUMPKIN. 

Wash  the  pumpkin  (do  not  peel,  as  the  sweetest  part  lies  next  the 
rind)  ;  cut  up  in  rings,  then  in  small  squares ;  fill  your  kettle  and  put  in 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  water  to  start  it ;  cover  closely  and  let  it  steam  until 
tender ;  remove  the  cover  and  let  it  cook  until  as  dry  as  possible  with- 
out burning  (stirring  often)  whether  it  be  half  or  a  whole  day.  Seal 
while  hot  in  tin  cans  (it  must  be  kept  dark).  When  wanted  for  pies 
remove  from  the  can  to  the  colander  and  thoroughly  sift ;  allow  two 
eggs  for  three  pies ;  make  quite  sweet  with  good  brown  sugar,  flavor 
with  ginger  and  make  thin  as  sweet  cream  with  equal  parts  of  milk  and 
water,  or  two-thirds  water ;  bake  slowly  in  a  good  crust  until  it  is  solid 
like  custard.  If  properly  baked  it  will  be  a  rich  brown,  shiny  to  look 
at  and  delicious  to  the  palate. 

RASPBERRIES  WITH  CURRANT  JUICE. 

Ten  pounds  of  red  or  black  raspberries,  twelve  pounds  of  granulated 
sugar,  one  quart  currant  juice.  Make  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  juice  ; 
when  boiling  add  the  fruit,  and  continue  for  ten  minutes.  Put  in  glass 
cans  and  fasten  immediately. 

STRAWBERRIES. 

Take  large,  select  but  not  overripe  ones.  Stem  them  and  put  into  a 
bottle,  giving  them  a  shake  now  and  then  to  settle  them  down ;  have 
ready  a  hot  syrup  of  sugar,  with  just  water  enough  to  dissolve  it ;  let 
boil  ten  minutes,  then  pour  over  and  seal  up  ;  turn  the  bottle  upside 
down  to  be  sure  there  is  no  air  in  it.  If  done  so,  they  will  retain  their 
color  and  flavor.  Then  wrap  the  bottles  in  paper  and  put  away  in  the 
cellar. 


DRIED  AND  CANDIED  FRUITS.  497 

TOMATOES. 
Scald  enough  to  remove  the  skin,  then  let  them  come  to  a  boil  and 
no  more  ;  have  your  cans  ready,  begin  to  fill  them,  shake  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  then  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  then  salt  and  pepper,  and  so  on  until 
full.  You  will  find  they  will  keep  as  fresh  as  when  gathered.  Don't 
cut  the  tomatoes  but  leave  them  whole. 

TO  KEEP  TOMATOES. 

Take  ripe  tomatoes  and  wipe  them  dry,  taking  care  not  to  break  the 
skin.  Put  them  into  a  jar  with  cold  vinegar,  adding  a  thin  musHn  bag 
filled  with  cloves  and  whole  peppers.  Then  cork  the  jar  tightly  with  a 
cork  that  has  been  dipped  in  melted  rosin,  and  put  away  in  a  dry  place. 
Tomatoes  pickled  in  this  manner  keep  perfectly  well  and  retain  their 
color.     For  this  purpose  use  the  small  round  plum  tomatoes. 


DEIED  AND  CANDIED  FHUITS. 

SELECTING  FRUITS. 

Of  dried  fruits,  cherries  and  peaches  are  the  best ;  of  canned  fruits, 
peaches,  plums,  large  cherries  and  pineapples ;  for  jellies,  currant, 
raspberry  and  peach ;  for  jams,  raspberry,  blackberry,  pear  and  quince. 
Rhubarb  makes  a  delicious  preserve  to  some,  as  also  do  black  currants, 
and  yet  there  are  those  who  can  eat  neither.  Rhubarb  can  be  mixed 
with  any  kind  of  fruit  half  and  half,  and  in  a  short  time  will  taste  exactly 
like  the  fruit  with  which  it  is  mixed. 

DRIED  FRUIT. 

To  keep  dried  fruit  from  becoming  wormy — after  being  prepared,  as  it 
should  aKvays  be  before  putting  away,  by  scalding — as  you  put  it  in  sacks 
scatter  amongst  it  pieces  of  sassafras  bark  from  the  root.  Tie  closely ; 
it  will  keep  for  years. 

DRIED  BLACKBERRIES. 

Dry  carefully  in  the  sun  like  apples.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  This 
is  a  cheaper  way  than  any  other  for  preserving  them,  and  they  make 
excellent  pies. 

DRIED  CITRON. 

If  you  want  your  citron  to  look  like  the  dried  citron,  pare  and  quarter, 

if  large ;  boil  until  clear  and  soft  enough   to  be  easily  pierced  with  a 

fork ;  take  out  and  drain,  then  place  in  a  nice  syrup  of  sugar  and  water 

and  boil  until  the  sugar  has  penetrated  it.     Take  out  and  spread  on 

82 


498  DRIED  AND  CANDIED  FRUITS. 

dishes  to  dry  slowly,  sprinkling  several  times  with  powdered  sugar  and 
turning  until  dried  enough.  Pack  in  jars  or  boxes  with  sugar  between 
the  layers. 

DRIED  WATER  MELON  RINDS. 

After  preserving,  place  in  the  sun  and  dry.  They  answer  well  in 
puddings  and  cakes  as  substitutes  for  the  imported  citron. 

CANDIED  FRUITS. 

Make  a  syrup  as  for  preserves  and  boil  the  fruit  until  tender.  Let 
them  stand  two  days  in  the  syrup.  Take  out,  drain  carefully,  lay  them 
on  plates,  sift  sugar  over  them,  and  dry  either  in  the  sun  or  in  a  moder- 
ately warm  oven. 

CANDIED  CITRON. 

Pare  and  seed  the  citron ;  let  lay  over  night  in  a  weak  sugar  water. 
Next  morning  drain  through  a  colander ;  add  to  one  pound  of  citron 
one  pound  of  white  sugar ;  put  the  sugar  on  and  boil  until  quite  a  thick 
syrup  is  formed,  then  drop  the  citron  in  and  cook  down  thick;  when 
done,  pour  out  on  plates  and  leave  near  the  stove  until  dry,  then  sprinkle 
with  granulated  sugar  and  keep  in  glass  jars.  Lemon  and  orange  peel 
can  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  only  it  is  not  necessary  to  lay  in  sugar 
water  over  night. 

Preserve  citron  in  the  same  way,  only  taking  half  a  pound  of  sugar; 
cook  until  clear  and  put  away  for  use. 

CANDIED  ORANGE  OR  LEMON  PEEL. 

Soak  and  boil  tender,  the  same  as  for  preserves ;  make  a  thin  syrup 
of  a  quart  of  water  to  a  pound  of  sugar ;  simmer  the  peels  in  it  half  an 
hour,  pour  into  a  bowl  together  and  let  stand  until  next  day,  then  make 
a  syrup  to  cover  them,  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  water,  boiling  it 
till  it  will  fall  from  the  spoon  in  threads  ;  put  the  peel  into  the  syrup, 
boil  half  an  hour,  take  out  and  drain  on  a  sieve,  and  as  the  candy  dries, 
transfer  to  a  dish  to  dry  in  a  warm  place. 

ORANGE  CITRON. 

Candied  orange  peel,  or  orange  citron,  is  easily  made.  The  only 
difficulty  is  to  obtain  the  orange  with  thick  enough  peel,  the  thicker  the 
better.  Soak  the  peel  in  salt  and  water  a  day  and  night,  then  freshen 
the  same  length  of  time  ;  make  a  syrup  of  sugar,  using  a  pound  to  each 
pound  of  peel,  and  boil  until  nearly  transparent. 


SPICED  FRUIT,  499 


SPICED  FRUIT. 

SPICED  FRUIT. 

To  seven  pounds  of  fruit,  take  three  good  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint 
of  vinegar,  cloves,  mace  and  cinnamon  to  suit  taste ;  sprinkle  the  sugar 
over  the  fruit,  let  it  stand  over  night,  then  boil  juice,  vinegar  and  spice 
fifteen  minutes.     Put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  ten  minutes. 

SPICED  APPLES. 

Eight  pounds  of  apples,  pared  and  quartered,  four  pounds  of  sugar, 
one  quart  of  vinegar,  one  ounce  of  thick  cinnamon,  one-]\alf  ounre 
cloves;  boil  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spice  together,  put  in  the  apples 
while  boiling,  and  let  them  remain  until  tender  (about  twenty  minute.s). 
then  put  the  apples  in  a  jar;  boil  down  the  syrup  until  thick  ^nd  pour 
over  them. 

SPICED  BLACKBERRIES. 

To  five  pounds  of  berries  add  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  vine- 
gar, two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  two  of  cloves,  the  same  of  all- 
spice;  heat  all  well  together,  skim  out  the  fruit  and  boil  one  hour; 
return  the  fruit  and  boil  fifteen  minutes;  put  in  jars  and  cover  tight. 
Prepare  currants  in  very  nearly  the  same  manner,  adding  another 
pound  of  sugar. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

One  ounce  of  cinnamon,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  one  tablespoonf  ul  each 
of  mace  and  allspice,  well  ground,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  four  pounds  of 
currants  and  two  of  sugar.  Boil  the  fruit  with  spices  tied  in  a  bag,  and 
the  sugar  to  a  thick  syrup.  When  nearly  done  add  vinegar.  Put  away 
in  jelly  tumblers  or  glass  cans. 

SPICED  ELDERBERRIES. 

To  four  pounds  ot  sugar,  use  one  pint  of  vinegar,  six  pounds  of  berries ; 
boil  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground 
cloves,  one  of  allspice,  in  the  vinegar ;  strain  vinegar,  add  sugar,  boil 
up,  then  add  berries ;  boil  two  hours. 

SPICED  GOOSEBERRIES. 

Six  pounds  currants  or  gooseberries,  five  pounds  sugar,  half  a  pint  of 
vinegar,  spices,  cloves  and  cinnamon  ;  boil  until  thick. 

SPICED  GRAPES. 

Five  pounds  grapes,  three  pounds  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  cinna- 
mon and  allspice,  half  teaspoonful  cloves ;  pulp  grapes,  boil  skins  until 


500  GAME. 

tender,  cook  pulps  and  strain  through  a  sieve,  add  it  to  the  skins,  put  in 
sugar,  spice  and  vinegar  to  taste ;  boil  thoroughly  and  cool. 

SPICED  PEACHES. 

Five  pound  peaches,  two  of  brown  sugar,  one  quart  vinegar,  one 
ounce  each  cinnamon,  cloves,  mace.  Wipe  the  peaches  and  boil  until 
done  in  the  vinegar  and  sugar,  then  take  out,  put  in  spices,  boil  well 
and  pour  over. 

SPICED  PEARS. 

Pare  the  pears  evenly,  put  from  three  to  four  cloves  Oreads  taken  off) 
in  each  pear,  make  a  syrup  of  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  vinegar ; 
tie  up  cloves,  cinnamon  (and  any  other  spices  one  prefers)  in  a  cloth 
and  boil  in  the  syrup  ;  when  nearly  thick  enough  put  in  your  pears  and 
cook  until  they  look  clear,  then  put  them  in  a  jar  and  pour  syrup  over 

them,  and  they  will  keep  for  years. 

t 

SPICED  PLUMS. 

Nine  pounds  blue  plums,  six  pounds  sugar,  two  quarts  vinegar,  one 
ounce  cinnamon  ;  boil  vinegar,  sugar  and  spice  together,  pour  over 
plums,  draw  off  next  morning  and  boil,  pour  back  on  plums ;  repeat 
the  boiling  five  mornings,  the  last  time  boiling  the  fruit  about  twenty 
minutes. 

SPICED  TOMATOES. 

Two  pounds  of  nice  ripe  tomatoes,  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  half  a 
pint  of  good  cider  vinegar,  one  dozen  cloves  and  two  dozen  grains  of 
allspice.  Put  these  ingredients  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  stew  them 
over  a  slow  fire.  When  they  have  been  in  sufficiently  long  to  cook  the 
tomatoes  nearly  soft,  take  them  up  and  place  them  on  a  dish  to  cool, 
but  continue  boiling  the  syrup  slowly.  When  the  tomatoes  become 
cool  put  them  back  into  the  syrup  and  boil  them  until  they  are  of  a 
dark  red  color,  then  take  them  out  again,  put  them  on  a  dish  to  cool 
and  continue  boiling  until  it  is  as  thick  as  molasses.  When  the  toma- 
toes and  syrup  are  both  cool  put  them  in  jars  and  tightly  seal. 


GAME, 


HOW  TO  COOK  IT. 


Broiling  is  a  favorite  method  of  cooking  game  and  all  birds  are 
exceedingly  nice  roasted,  especially  quails.  Game  is  best  if  kept  as 
long  as  possible,  without  tainting,  before  cooking,  as  it  gives  it  the 
"  gamy  "  flavor.     When  birds  do  become  tainted,  pick  clean  as  soon  as 


HO  W  TO  COOK  GAME.  501 

possible,  and  lay  in  milk,  where  they  are  completely  covered,  for  twen- 
ty-four hours,  when  they  will  be  sweet,  fresh  and  ready  for  cooking. 

Birds  should  be  carefully  dry-picked — removing  all  feathers  that 
come  off  easily,  plunged  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  skinned,  drawn, 
wiped  clean  and  all  shot  removed.  Game  should  never  be  washed, 
unless  absolutely  necessary  to  assure  cleanliness,  and  then  must  be 
washed  quickly,  using  as  little  water  as  possible.  The  more  plainly 
game  is  cooked,  the  finer  the  flavor.  They  require  more  heat  than 
poultry,  but  cook  quicker,  and  should  be  served  smoking  hot.  White- 
meated  game  should  be  cooked  to  well-done  ;  dark-meated  game  rare. 

To  lard  game — After  cleaning  and  washing,  cut  fat  salt  pork  into 
thin,  narrow  strips ;  thread  a  larding  needle  with  one  of  the  strips,  run 
the  needle  under  the  skin  with  a  little  of  the  flesh  of  the  bird  and  draw 
the  pork  half  way  through,  so  that  the  ends  of  the  strips  exposed  will 
be  of  equal  length.  The  strips  should  be  about  one  inch  apart.  The 
larding  destroys  the  flavor  of  the  bird,  and  many  prefer  tying  a  piece  of 
bacon  on  the  breast  instead,  but  the  larding  of  birds  renders  them  more 
juicy. 

To  roast  game — Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  a  lump  of  butter 
or  pork  inside ;  truss,  skewer  and  place  in  oven.  The  flavor  is  best  pre- 
served without  dressing,  but  many  prefer  a  plain  bread  dressmg,  or  a 
few  oysters  placed  inside.  Or,  put  the  fowl,  with  an  onion,  salf  and 
hot  water  into  a  pan  and  baste  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  ;  change  the 
pan  ;  put  in  a  slice  of  salt  pork  and  baste  with  butter  and  pork  drip- 
pings very  often  ;  just  before  serving  dredge  lightly  with  flour  and 
baste.  Ducks  take  from  twenty-five  to  thirty-five  minutes  to  roast,  and 
woodcocks  and  snipe  fifteen  to  twenty-five.  Do  not  draw  or  take  off 
the  heads  of  either. 

To  broil — Split  down  the  back ;  open  and  flatten  the  breast  by  cover- 
ing with  a  cloth  and  pounding,  season  with  pepper,  and  lay  the  inside 
first  upon  the  gridiron.  Turn  as  soon  as  browned,  and  when  almost 
done,  take  off ;  place  on  a  platter  ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  return  to  the 
gridiron.  When  done,  place  in  a  hot  dish,  butter  both  sides  well,  and 
serve  at  once.  The  time  required  is  usually  about  twenty  minutes. 
This  is  a  very  nice  way  to  cook  prairie  chickens,  partridges  and  quails, 
or  you  will  find  it  a  decided  improvement  to  stuff  them  with  sausage 
meat. 

To  roast  them,  they  must  be  cleaned  nicely,  rinsed  and  dried  and 
then  filled  with  dressing,  sewing  them  up  nicely  and  binding  down 
the  legs  and  wings  with  cords.  Put  them  in  a  steamer  over  hot  water, 
and  let  them  cook  until  just  done.  Then  place  them  in  a  pan  with  a 
little  butter,  set  them  in  the  oven  and  baste  them  frequently  with 
melted  butter  until  of  a  nice  brown.  They  ought  to  brown  nicely  in 
about  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  them  on  a  platter  with  sprigs  of  parsley 
alternately  with  currant  jelly. 


502  GAME. 

Pigeons  may  be  either  roasted,  potted  or  stewed.  After  they  are 
thoroughly  picked  and  cleaned,  put  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork  and  a 
little  ball  of  dressing  into  the  body  of  every  pigeon.  The  dressing  should 
be  Hiade  of  one  ^g'g  to  one  cracker,  an  equal  quantity  of  suet,  or  butter, 
seasoned  with  sweet  marjoram,  or  sage  (if  marjoram  cannot  be  pro- 
cured). Flour  the  pigeons  well ;  lay  them  close  together  in  the  bottom 
of  the  pot ;  just  cover  them  with  water ;  throw  in  a  bit  of  butter  ;  and  let 
them  stew  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  if  young ;  an  hour  and  three-quar- 
ters if  old.  Some  people  turn  off\  the  liquor  just  before  they  are  done, 
and  brown  the  pigeons  on  the  bottom  of  the  pot ;  but  this  is  very  trou- 
blesome, as  they  are  apt  to  break  to  pieces.  Stewed  pigeons  are  cooked 
in  nearly  the  same  way,  with  the  omission  of  the  stuffing.  Being  dry 
meat,  they  require  a  good  deal  of  butter.  Pigeons  should  be  stuffed 
and  roasted  about  fifteen  minutes  before  a  smart  fire.  Those  who  like 
birds  just  warmed  through,  would  perhaps  think  less  time  necessary. 
It  makes  them  nicer  to  butter  them  well  just  before  you  take  them  off 
the  .spit,  and  sprinkle  them  with  nicely  pounded  bread  or  cracker.  All 
poultry  should  be  basted  and  floured  a  few  minutes  before  it  is  taken  up. 

The  age  of  pigeons  can  be  judged  by  the  color  of  the  legs.  When 
young,  they  are  of  a  pale,  delicate  brown  ;  as  they  grow  older,  the  color 
is  deeper  and  redder. 

If  the  wild  flavor  of  larger  birds,  such  as  prairie  chickens,  is  disliked, 
they  may  be  soaked  over  night  in  salt  water,  or  two  or  three  hours  in 
soda  and  water,  or  parboiled  with  an  onion  or  two  in  the  water,  and 
then  cooked  as  desired.  Geese,  ducks,  etc.,  may  lie  in  salt  water  for 
several  hours,  or  a  fresh  lemon,  stripped  of  the  outer  skin,  may  be  put 
inside  the  game  for  a  day  or  two,  renewing  the  lemon  every  ten  hours. 
This  will  absorb  unpleasant  flavors  from  nearly  all  game.  Squirrels 
should  be  carefully  skinned  and  laid  in  salt  water  a  short  time  before 
cooking  ;  if  old,  parboil.  They  are  very  savory  if  broiled,  and  are 
excellent  made  into  a  stew,  or  cooked  with  thin  slices  of  bacon. 

Venison  is  considered  by  many  a  very  fine  dish.  The  haunch,  neck, 
shoulder  and  saddle  should  be  roasted  ;  the  breast  roasted  or  broiled, 
and  the  steaks  broiled  or  fried  with  slices  of  bacon  or  salt  pork.  Veni- 
son requires  more  time  for  cooking  than  beefsteak. 

The  garnishes  for  small  game  are  dried  or  roasted  bread,  slices  of 
lemon,  parsley  and  currant  jelly ;  for  larger  game,  such  as  wild  ducks, 
cranberry  sauce,  apple  sauce,  sliced  lemons,  or  sliced  oranges  and 
parsley. 

ROAST  DUCKS. 

Wipe  dry  inside  and  out,  and  stuff  with  a  dressing  of  bread-crumbs, 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  very  little  powdered  sage  and  a  sus- 
picion of  minced  onion.     Sew  up,  dash  a  cup  of  boiling  water  over  them 


GROUSE,  RABBIT  AND  PIGEONS.  503 

as  they  lie  in  the  dripping-pan,  and  roast  covered  for  the  first  half-hour ; 
remove  the  cover  and  baste  freely — three  times  with  butter  and  water, 
four  or  five  times  with  the  gravy  from  the  pan.  Stew  the  giblets  in  a 
little  salted  water  and  make  into  a  gravy.  Dish  ducks  upon  a  hot 
platter. 

BRAISED  GROUSE. 

Clean  thoroughly,  washing  out  the  inside  in  soda  and  water,  and 
then  rinsing  and  wiping.  Truss,  but  do  not  stuff  the  birds ;  tie  them 
in  shape.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan  with  slices  of  fat  salt  pork ; 
lay  the  grouse  upon  these  ;  sprinkle  minced  onion  and  parsley  over 
them,  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  sugar.  Cover  them  with  more  pork, 
and  pour  in  a  large  cup  of  soup  stock,  or  other  broth.  Cover  very 
closely;  simmer  one  hour;  turn  the  birds  an^  cook — always  covered — 
until  tender.  Dish  the  grouse,  strain  the  gravy,  thicken  with  browned 
flour,  boil  up  and  pour  into  a  gravy  boat.     Partridges  and  wild  pigeons 

may  also  be  cooked  in  this  way. 

\ 

ROAST  HARE  OR  RABBIT. 

Have  the  hare  skinned  and  well  cleaned,  stuff  as  you  would  a  fowl, 
with  a  force-meat  of  bread  crumbs,  chopped  fat  pork,  a  little  sweet 
marjoram,  onion,  pepper  and  salt,  just  moistened  with  hot  water.  Sew 
up  the  hare  with  fine  cotton,  tie  the  legs  closely  to  the  body  in  a  kneel- 
ing position,  lay  in  the  dripping-pan,  back  uppermost,  pour  two  cups  of 
boiling  water  over  it,  cover  with  another  pan  and  bake,  closely  covered — 
except  when  you  baste  it  with  butter  and  water — for  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.  Uncover,  baste  freely  with  the  gravy  until  nicely  browned ; 
dredge  with  flour  and  anoint  with  butter  until  a  fine  froth  appears  on 
the  surface.  Take  up  the  hare,  put  it  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  covered 
while  you  make  the  gravy.  Strain  and  skim  that  left  in  the  pan,  sea- 
son, thicken  with  browned  flour,  stir  in  a  good  spoonful  of  currant  jelly 
and  some  chopped  parlsey,  boil  up,  pour  a  few  spoonfuls  of  it  over  the 
hare,  ^nd  serve  the  rest  in  a  gravy  boat.  Clip  the  threads  and  send  the 
hare  in  with  currant  jelly  around  it. 

STEWED  PIGEONS. 

Put  the  pigeons  into  a  pot  with  a  cup  of  water  to  keep  them  from 
burning,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  for  each  one.  Shut  the  lid  down 
tightly  and  subject  to  a  slow  heat  until  they  are  of  a  nice  dark  brown, 
Once  in  a  great  while  turn  them,  and  see  that  each  is  well  wet  with  the 
liquor.  Take  them  out  and  cover  in  a  warm  place — a  colander  set  over 
a  pan  of  hot  water  is  best — while  you  make  the  gravy.  Chop  the  gib- 
lets of  the  pigeons  very  fine,  with  a  little  onion  and  parsley.  Put  into 
the  gravy,  pepper  and  salt,  boil   up  and   thicken  with  browned  flour. 


504  GAME. 

Return  the  pigeons  to  the  pot,  cover  again  tightly,  and  cook  slowly  until 
tender.  If  there  should  not  be  liquor  enough  in  the  pot  to  make  the 
gravy,  add  boiling  water  before  the  giblets  go  in. 

ROAST  PIGEONS. 

Wipe  them  quite  dry ;  truss  them,  and  season  them  inside  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  in  each.  Put 
them  down  to  a  sharp  fire  and  baste  them  all  the  time  they  are  cooking. 
They  will  take  about  half  an  hour.  Garnish  them  with  fried  parsley, 
and  serve  with  a  tureen  of  bread  sauce. 

BROILED  PIGEONS. 

Split  them  down  the  back,  spread  open,  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  broil  over  a  quick,  clear  fire. 

FRIED  QUAILS. 

Pick  and  clean,  cut  in  the  middle  of  back,  fry  in  butter  to  a  nice  brown, 
salt  and  pepper;  now  put  in  an  earthen  or  porcelain  lined  dish,  one 
tablespoonful  of  nice  butter  and  the  same  of  flour;  stir  on  a  slow  fire 
until  butter  is  dissolved,  then  pour  in  slowly  two-thirds  glass  of  water 
and  the  same  quantity  of  wine,  salt  and  pepper ;  put  in  your  birds  that 
are  nicely  fried,  simmer  slowly  one-quarter  of  an  hour ;  toast  some  thin 
slices  of  bread  (one  toast  to  each  bird) ;  put  in  the  dish  you  wish  to 
serve,  laying  the  birds  on  top ;  pour  the  gravy  over  all ;  serve  very  hot* 

QUAILS  ROASTED  WITH  HAM. 

Clean,  truss  and  stuff  as  usual.  Cover  the  entire  bird  with  thin  slices 
of  ham  or  salt  pork,  binding  all  with  buttered  pack-thread.  Roast  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  basting  with  butter  and  water  three  times,  then 
with  the  dripping.  When  done  dish  with  the  ham  laid  about  the  body 
of  the  bird.  Skim  the  gravy,  thicken  with  browned  flour  mixed  in  a 
Utile  cold  water,  pepper  and  salt.     Boil  up  once  and  pour  over  the  bird. 

REED  BIRDS. 

Roast  them  on  the  little  wire  that  accompanies  the  roaster;  turn 
and  baste  frequently,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  or  boil  in  a  crust 
like  dumplings. 

RABBITS. 

Rabbits  which  are  in  their  best  condition  in  winter,  may  be  fricasseed 
like  chicken  in  white  or  brown  sauce.  To  roast,  stuff  with  a  dressing 
made  of  bread  crumbs,  a  little  chopped  salt  pork,  onion,  pepper  and 
salt ;  sew  up,  rub  over  with  a  little  butter,  or  lay  on  a  few  slices  of  salt 


SQUIRRELS,  VENISON  AND  WOODCOCK.  505 

pork,  add  a  little  water  in  the  pan  and  baste  often.     Serve  with  currant 
jelly. 

BROILED  SQUIRRELS. 

Clean  and  soak  in  cold  water  to  draw  out  the  blood ;  wipe  dry  and 
broil  on  a  gridiron  over  a  clear,  hot  fire,  turning  often  ;  when  done  lay 
in  a  hot  dish  and  dress  with  plenty  of  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt, 
and  let  it  lie  between  two  hot  dishes  for  five  minutes  before  eating. 

HAUNCH  OF  VENISON. 

Wash  all  over  with  lukewarm  vinegar  and  water,  then  rub  well  with 
butter  or  lard  to  soften  the  skin.  Cover  the  top  and  sides  with  foolscap 
paper,  well  greased,  and  coat  it  with  a  paste  of  flour  and  water,  half  an 
inch  thick.  Lay  over  this  a  large  sheet  of  thin  wrapping  paper  and 
over  this  another  of  stout  foolscap.  Tie  all  down  in  place  by  greased 
pack-thread.  The  papers  should  also  be  thoroughly  greased.  Do  this 
the  day  before  needed  to  roast.  About  three  hours  before  it  will  be 
needed,  put  into  the  dripping-pan,  with  two  cups  of  boiling  water  in 
the  bottom.  Insert  another  pan  over  it  to  keep  in  the  steam  ;  be  sure 
that  the  fire  is  good  and  leave  it  to  itself  for  an  hour.  Then  see  that 
the  paper  is  not  scorching;  wet  it  all  over  with  hot  water  and  a  ladleful 
of  gravy  ;  cover  it  and  let  it  alone  for  an  hour  and  a  half  more;  Remove 
the  papers  and  paste,  and  test  with  a  skewer  in  the  thickest  part.  If  it 
goes  in  readily,  close  the  door  and  let  it  brown  for  half  an  hour.  Baste 
freely  four  times  with  wine  and  butter,  and  at  last  dredge  with  flour  and 
rub  over  with  butter  to  make  a  froth.  Take  it  up,  put  upon  a  hot  dish. 
Skim  the  gravy  left  in  the  dripping-pan,  strain  it,  thicken  with  browned 
flour,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  currant  jelly,  a  glass  of  wine,  pepper  and 
salt.  Boil  up  for  an  instant,  and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat.  Allow  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  to  the  pound  in  roasting  venison.  The  neck  can  be 
roasted  in  the  same  way  as  the  haunch. 

BROILED  VENISON. 

Cut  thin  slices,  mix  stale  crumbs  of  bread  with  pepper  and  salt,  tg^ 
the  slices,  and  dip  into  the  seasoned  bread;  broil  over  a  clear  fire. 
Serve  with  a  gravy  sauce. 

WOODCOCK. 

Tie  the  legs,  skin  the  head  and  neck,  turn  the  beak  under  the  wing 
and  tie  it,  tie  a  piece  of  bacon  over  it,  and  immerse  in  hot  fat  for  two  or 
three  minutes.  Serve  on  toast.  Or  split  them  through  the  back  and 
broil,  basting  with  butter  and  serving  on  toast.  They  may  also  be 
roasted  whole  before  the  fire  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 


506  ICES  AND  ICE  CREAMS. 


ICES  AND  ICE  CREAMS. , 

HOW  FO  FREEZE  THEM. 

Use  one  part  of  coarse  table  salt  to  two  parts  of  ice  broken  the  size 
of  a  walnut.  This  should  be  firmly  packed  around  the  cream  pail  to 
the  hight  of  the  freezer.  For  three  pints  of  cream,  one  and  a  half  pints 
of  water  should  be  poured  over  the  ice  in  the  freezer,  and  for  ever)^ 
additional  quart  of  cream  one  pint  of  water  should  be  added  to  the  ice 
after  packing.  When  there  is  no  ice  cream  freezer  convenient,  ices 
may  be  frozen  by  putting  the  cream  to  be  frozen  in  a  tin  pail  with  a 
close  cover.  This  ice  and  salt  for  packing  may  be  put  in  a  larger  pail : 
and  packed  firmly  around  the  pail  of  cream  to  be  frozen.  Let  this 
stand  to  chill  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  then  remove  the  cover  and 
stir  the  freezing  mixture  within,  until  stiff ;  then  repack,  cover  the  whole 
closely  with  a  woolen  cloth  or  carpet,  and  leave  for  an  hour  or  two  in  a 
cool  place. 

For  self-freezing  ice  cream,  take  one  quart  of  rich  milk,  eight  beaten 
eggs,  three  pints  of  rich,  sweet  cream,  four  cups  of  sugar,  one  vanilla 
bean  broken  in  two  and  boiled  in  the  custard,  or  five  teaspoonfuls  of 
Vanilla  essence  (lemon  essence  can  be  used,  if  preferred) ;  heat  the  milk, 
pour  it  upon  the  eggs  and  sugar,  cook  (stirring  steadily)  fifteen  minutes, 
or  until  it  has  thickened  well ;  when  perfectly  cold  add  the  cream  ; 
make  the  day  before  using  and  set  on  ice ;  early  in  the  morning  beat  in 
the  cream,  and  put  all  in  an  old-fashioned  upright  freezer,  set  in  its 
pail ;  put  a  block  of  ice  within  a  stout  sack,  or  between  the  folds  of  a 
piece  of  carpeting,  and  beat  small  with  a  hammer ;  put  a  thick  layer 
into  the  outer  part,  then  one  of  rock  salt;  fill  the  pail  in  this  order,  and 
before  covering  the  freezer  with  ice  beat  the  custard  for  five  minutes 
wiih  a  flat  stick  or  ladle  ;  shut  tightly ;  pack  pounded  ice  and  salt  over 
it,  and  put  a  folded  carpet  over  all ;  in  an  hour  and  a  half  open  the 
freezer,  first  wiping  off  the  salt  from  about  the  top ;  dislodge  the  frozen 
custard  from  the  sides  and  bottom  with  a  long  knife,  and  beat  and  stir 
with  your  stick  faithfully  until  the  custard  is  a  smooth  paste ;  replace 
the  cover,  let  off  the  water,  and  pack  more  pounded  ice  and  salt  about 
it,  completely  concealing  the  freezer;  put  back  the  folded  carpet;  the 
cream  will  take  care  of  itself  for  three  hours  and  more,  or  you  can,  if 
you  like,  leave  it  all  day,  with  a  visit  of  three  minutes  every  few  hours, 
to  let  off  the  water  and  pack  in  more  salt  and  ice.  Do  not  open  the 
freezer  until  you  are  ready  for  the  cream.  Then  take  it  out,  wipe  it  off, 
wrap  a  towel  wrung  out  in  hot  water  about  the  lower  part,  invert  it 
upon  a  flat  dish — or  leave  off  the  towel  and  dish  the  cream  out  in  sau- 
cers.    Should  the  weather  be  very  hot,  you  may  have  to  let  off  the  water 


ICES  AND  ICE  CREAMS.  507 

oftener  than  once  in  three  hours ;  but  this  seldom  happens  if  the  freezer 
be  set  in  a  cool  cellar. 

To  make  lemon  ice  cream,  take  one  quart  of  cream,  two  lemons  (the 
juice  of  one  and  the  grated  peel  of  one  and  a  half)  and  two  cups  of 
sugar.  Sweeten  the  cream,  beat  the  lemon  gradually  into  it,  and  put  it 
at  once  mto  the  freezer.  The  freezer  should  be  the  best  patent  one  you 
can  procure,  there  being  many  to  choose  from,  and  all  very  nearly  alike 
in  merit.  Freeze  rapidly,  or  the  acid  will  turn  the  milk.  Use  rock  salt, 
not  common  salt.  Orange  ice  cream  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 
For  pineapple  ice  cream,  take  one  quart  of  cream,  one,  large,  ripe  pine- 
apple, and  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar.  Slice  the  pineapple  thin,  and 
scatter  the  sugar  between  the  slices ;  cover  it,  and  let  the  fruit  steep 
three  hours.  Then  cut,  or  chop  it  up  in  the  sugar,  and  strain  it  through  a 
hair-sieve,  or  bag  of  double,  coarse  lace.  Beat  gradually  into  the  cream, 
and  freeze  as  rapidly  as  possible.  Peach  ice  cream  may  be  made  in  the 
same  way,  with  two  or  three  handfuls  of  freshly-cut  bits  of  the  fruit 
stirred  in  when  the  cream  is  half  frozen. 

For  cocoanut  cream,  grate  cocoanut  and  add  to  the  sugar  and 
cream  just  before  freezing.  Coffee  ice  cream  should  be  thickened  with 
arrowroot;  the  flavoring  for  almond  cream  should  be  prepared  by 
pounding  the  kernels  to  a  paste  with  rose-water,  using  arrowroot  for 
thickening.  The  flavoring  for  chocolate  cream  is  prepared  by  rubbing 
the  chocolate  smooth  in  a  little  milk. 

The  milk  should  never  be  heated  for  pineapple,  strawberry  or  rasp- 
berry cream.  For  fruit  ice  creams,  to  every  pint  of  fruit  juice  allow  one 
pint  of  cream,  sugar  to  taste.  Mode — Let  the  fruit  be  well  ripened ; 
pick  off  the  stalks,  put  it  into  a  large  earthen  pan ;  stir  it  about  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  breaking  it  until  it  is  well  mashed ;  then,  with  the  back 
of  the  spoon  rub  through  a  hair  sieve;  sweeten  it  nicely  with  pow- 
dered sugar ;  whip  the  cream  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  to  it  the  fruits, 
and  whisk  the  whole  again  for  another  five  minutes ;  put  the  mixture  in 
the  freezing  can  and  freeze. 

Freeze  the  cream  in  rather  a  warm  room — the  more  rapid  the  melt- 
ing of  the  ice,  the  quicker  the  cream  freezes,  always  being  careful  that 
no  water  or  salt  gets  into  the  freezer.  Water  ices  are  made  from  the 
juices  of  fruits,  mixed  with  water,  sweetened  and  frozen  like  cream.  Be 
sure  that  in  making  them,  they  are  well  mixed  before  freezing,  else  the 
sugar  will  sink  to  the  bottom,  giving  the  mixture  a  sharp,  unpleasant 
taste.  The  finest  ices  are  made  by  making  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and 
water,  by  boiling  and  skimming  when  necessary,  and,  when  cold, 
adding  the  juice  of  the  fruit. 

The  proper  proportions  are  one  pint  of  syrup  to  every  pint  of  fruit 
juice.  To  extract  the  juice,  select  nice  ripe  fruit ;  pick  off  the  stalks 
and  put  it  into  a  large  earthen  pan,  with  a  little  powdered  sugar  strewn 


608  ICES  Ai\'D  ICE  CREAMS. 

over ;  stir  it  about  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  is  well  broken,  then  rub 
it  through  a  hair  sieve.  Make  a  syrup  ;  let  it  cool,  add  the  fruit  juice, 
mix  well  together,  put  the  mixture  into  a  freezing  can  and  proceed  as  in 
making  ice-cream. 

Ices  are  usually  served  in  glasses,  but  if  molded,  as  they  sometimes 
are  for  dessert,  must  have  a  small  quantity  of  melted  isinglass  added  to 
them  to  enable  them  to  keep  their  shape. 

ICE  CREAM. 

If  you  want  a  very  rich  ice  cream  take  two  quarts  pure  cream,  one 
pound  powdered  white  sugar,  the  whites  of  four  eggs  ;  flavor  to  taste 
and  freeze.  Or,  one  quart  of  milk,  one  quart  of  cream,  one  pound  of 
sugar,  six  eggs.  Put  milk  and  cream  over  a  slow  fire  ;  when  ready  to 
boil  stir  in  sugar  and  eggs ;  strain  while  hot ;  when  cool  add  flavoring  ; 
when  it  is  quite  cold  it  is  ready  for  freezing. 

SPANISH  CREAM. 

One-half  box  of  gelatine,  one  quart  of  milk,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one 
small  cup  of  sugar ;  flavor  with  vanilla,  or  other  essence.  Soak  the 
gelatine  one  hour  in  the  milk  ;  put  into  a  farina- kettle  and  stir  as  it 
warms.  When  hot,  pour  over  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar ;  put  back 
into  the  kettle  and  heat  to  scalding ;  strain  through  tarletan  ;  flavor  and 
pour  into  a  wet  mold.  Do  this  in  the  morning,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 
Eat  with  cream,  or  without. 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM. 

To  half  a  pint  of  coffee,  take  one  quart  of  thick  cream,  twelve 
ounces  of  finely  pulverized  white  sugar,  and  two  new-laid  eggs.  Mix 
the  ingredients  in  an  earthen  or  porcelain-lined  basin ;  place  on  the  fire 
(stirring  constantly)  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Do  not  allow  it  to 
boil.  Remove  immediately.  Strain  through  a  hair  sieve  mto  another 
earthen  or  porcelain-lined  basin.  Put  into  a  freezer,  and  freeze,  as 
already  directed. 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM. 

One  quart  of  cream,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  granulated,  half  a  vanilla 
bean.  Boil  half  the  cream  with  the  sugar  and  bean,  then  add  the  rest 
of  the  cream  ;  cool  and  strain  it.  If  extract  of  vanilla  or  any  other 
extract  is  used,  do  not  boil  it,  but  put  it  in  the  cream  with  the  sugar 
and  freeze.  Make  it  strong  with  the  flavoring,  as  it  loses  strength  by 
freezing. 

LEMON  ICE  CREAM. 

This  is  made  with  the  same  proportion  of  cream  and  sugar  and  one 
lemon  ;  grate  the  lemon  rind  into  the  sugar;  this  extracts  the  oil ;  then 


FRUIT  ICE  CREAMS,  509 

add  the  juice  and   the '  raw   cream ;    strain   and  freeze  immediately. 
Lemon  cream  sours  more  quickly  than  any  other. 

ICE  CREAM  FRUIT. 

This  can  be  made  by  mashing  the  fruit  through  a  colander,  then  take 
a  quart  of  cream  and  half  a  pound  of  sugar ;  freeze  the  same  as  the 
others. 

PINE-APPLE  ICE  CREAM. 

Slice  one  large  pine-apple  thin  and  scatter  one  pound  of  sugar 
between  the  slices;  cover  it  and  let  the  fruit  steep  three  hours ;  then 
cut  or  chop  fine  in  the  syrup  and  strain  through  a  sieve ;  beat  gradually 
into  one  quart  of  cream  and  freeze  rapidly.  If  you  like,  reserve  a  few 
slices  of  pine-apple  unsugared,  cut  into  squares  and  stir  through  the 
cream  when  half  frozen. 

BERRY  CREAM. 

Any  kind  of  berries  may  be  used  for  this,  strawberries  being  the 
nicest.  Mash  with  a  potato  masher  in  an  earthen  bowl,  one  quart  of 
berries  with  one  pound  of  sugar ;  rub  them  through  the  colander  ;  add 
one  quart  sweet  cream  and  freeze.  Very  ripe  peaches  or  mashed  apples 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  berries. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 

Mash  one  quart  of  berries  with  one  pound  of  sugar.  Rub  through  a 
colander ;  add  one  quart  of  sweet  cream  and  freeze  as  usual. 

PEACH  ICE  CREAM. 

One  quart  of  rich  milk  and  as  much  sweet  cream;  four  cups  of 
sugar;  six  eggs  ;  one  quart  of  very  ripe  peaches,  pared  and  cut  small. 
Make  as  in  directions  for  self-freezing  ice  cream,  but  stir  in  the  peaches 
just  before  closing  the  freezer  for  the  second  time,  beating  them  well 
into  the  congealing  cream.  Unless  they  are  very  sweet,  you  would  do 
well  to  dredge  them  in  sugar  before  they  go  in. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

One  pint  of  rich  milk,  and  the  same  of  sweet  cream ;  yolks  of  four 
eggs ;  one-half  ounce  of  gelatine ;  one  small  cup  of  sugar ;  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  vanilla  or  other  extract.  Soak  the  gelatine  two  hours  in 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  it.  Heat  the  milk,  and  stir  in  the  gelatine 
until  melted.  Pour  this  upon  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar,  and  heat 
until  it  begins  to  thicken.  It  should  not  boil.  Take  from  the  tire, 
flavor  and  let  it  cool  somewhat.     The  cream  should  have  been  whipped 


510  ICES  AND  ICE  CREAMS. 

stiff  in  a  syllabub  churn.  Beat  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  into  the  lukewarm 
custard,  until  it  is  like  sponge-cake  batter.  Pour  into  a  wet  mold  and 
set  on  ice  to  firm.     It  will  be  formed  in  a  few  hours  if  buried  in  the  ice. 

FRUIT  TRAPEES. 

Line  a  mold  with  ice  cream,  fill  the  center  with  fresh  berries,  or  fruit 
cut  in  slices.  Cover  with  ice  cream,  cover  closely,  and  set  in  freezer  for 
half  an  hour,  with  salt  and  ice  well  packed  around  it.  The  fruit  must 
be  chilled,  but  not  frozen.  Berries  and  ripe  peaches  are  delicious  thus 
prepared. 

ICED  FRUITS. 

Take  fine  bunches  of  ripe  currants  on  the  stalks ;  dip  them  in  g^m 
arabic  water  or  the  whites  of  eggs,  well  beaten ;  lay  them  on  a  sieve. 
Sift  white  sugar  over  and  let  them  dry.  They  are  very  nice  for  dessert 
or  the  tea  table.  Grapes,  cherries  or  plums  may  be  done  in  the  same 
way. 

ICED  APPLES,  PEACHES  OR  ORANGES. 

Grate  fine,  sprinkle  with  white  sugar  and  freeze  them. 

STRAWBERRY  AND  RASPBERRY  ICE. 

Bruise  a  pint  of  strawberries  or  raspberries  with  two  large  spoonfuls 
of  fine  sugar ;  add  a  quart  of  cream  and  strain  through  a  sieve  and 
freeze  it.  If  you  have  no  cream,  boil  a  spoonful  of  arrow  root  in  a 
quart  of  milk,  and  if  you  like,  beat  up  one  tgg  and  stir  into  it. 

CREAM  SHERBET. 

Put  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  a  dessert  spoonful  of  vanilla  into  two 
quarts  of  cream.  Place  on  the  fire  in  a  stew  pan,  and  let  it  come  to  a 
boil,  then  strain.  Add  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and  stir 
until  dissolved.     When  cold  set  on  ice  or  freeze  as  ice-cream. 

LEMON  SHERBET. 

Scald  one  quart  of  milk  with  one  pound  sugar  and  rind  of  two  lemons. 
Strain,  and  when  cool,  put  in  freezer  and  beat  light.  When  partially 
frozen,  add  beaten  whites  af  three  eggs,  with  juice  of  four  lemons,  one 
cup  of  sugar ;  then  freeze. 

LEMON  ICE. 

Six  lemons,  juice  of  all  and  grated  rind  of  three ;  one  large,  sweet 
orange,  juice  and  rind;  one  pint  of  water,  one  pint  of  sugar;  squeeze 
out  every  drop  of  juice,  and  steep  in  it  the  rinds  of  orange  and  lemons 
one  hour;  strain,  squeezing  the  bag  dry  ;  mix  in  the  sugar  and  then  the 


JAMS  AND  JELLIES.  511 

water;  stir  until  dissolved,  and  freeze  by  turning  into  a  freezer,  opening 
it  three  times,  to  beat  all  up  together. 

LEMON  WATER  ICE. 

To  every  pint  of  syrup  allow  one-third  of  a  pint  of  lemon  juice; 
the  rinds  of  four  lemons.  Rub  the  sugar  on  the  rinds  of  the  lemons, 
and  with  it  make  the  syrup ;  strain  the  lemon  juice,  add  it  to  the  other 
ingredients,  stir  well,  and  put  the  mixture  into  a  freezing  can,  and 
when  the  mixture  is  thoroughly  and  equally  frozen  put  it  into  ice 
glasses. 

ORANGE  AND  LEMON  ICE. 

The  rinds  of  three  oranges  grated  and  steeped  a  few  moments  in  a 
little  more  than  a  pint  of  water ;  strain  one  pint  of  this  on  a  pound  of 
sugar,  and  then  add  one  pint  of  lemon  Juice  ;  pour  into  the  freezer,  and 
when  half  frozen  add  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

ORANGE  ICE. 

Six  oranges  and  the  grated  rind  of  three,  juice  of  two  lemons,  one 
pint  sugar  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  cold  water ;  mix  and  freeze  the  same 
as  ice  cream. 

FRUIT  ICE. 

Grate,  sweeten  and  freeze  well-flavored  apples,  pears,  peaches,  or 
quinces.     Canned  fruit  may  be  mashed  and  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

CURRANT  ICE. 

Boil  down  three  pints  of  water  and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  to 
one  quart ;  strain ;  add  two  cups  of  currant  juice,  and  when  partly 
frozen  add  the  whites  of  five  eggs. 


JAMS  AND  JELLIES. 

The  fruit  must  be  picked  when  just  ripened,  as  when  too  old,  it  will 
not  form  jelly.  Look  over  the  fruit,  and  then  put  stems  and  all  in  a 
porcelain-lined  kettle,  or  they  may  be  put  in  a  brass  or  tin  kettle,  if 
scoured  very  bright,  and  the  fruit  removed  immediately  after  it  is  taken 
from  the  fire.  Use  the  best  refined  or  granulated  sugar,  taking  care 
that  it  has  not  a  bluish  tinge ;  for  jelly  from  bluish-white  sugars  does 
not  harden  well. 


612  JAMS  AND  JELLIES, 

If  two  fruits  are  combined  for  jams  or  jellies,  the  flavor  is  much 
enhanced,  as  raspberries  and  currants.  To  extract  the  juice,  crush  a 
little  of  the  fruit  and  put  all  together  in  the  kettle,  but. add  no  water. 
As  it  heats,  mash  with  a  potato-masher,  and,  when  hot,  strain  through 
a  jelly-bag.  Let  all  run  off  that  will  before  squeezing  the  bag.  It  will 
be  a  little  clearer  than  the  squeezed  juice.  To  every  pint  of  this  juice 
add  one  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  the  juice  twenty-five  minutes ;  add  the 
sugar  and  boil  for  five  more ;  put  up  in  glasses.  Crab-apple,  quince, 
grapes,  etc.,  are  all  made  in  the  same  way.  Allow  a  teacup  of  water 
to  a  pound  of  fruit ;  boil  till  very  tender  ;  then  strain  through  a  cloth, 
and  treat  as  currant  jelly.  Cherries  will  not  jelly  without  gelatine, 
and  grapes  are  sometimes  troublesome.  Where  gelatine  is  needed, 
allow  a  package  to  two  quarts  of  juice. 

For  jams  the  syrup  is  made  as  above.  Use  raspberries,  strawberries, 
or  any  small  fruit,  and  thoroughly  bruise  before  cooking,  as  this  pre- 
vents it  from  becoming  hard.  Boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  before 
adding  the  sugar,  and  then  boil  half  an  hour  longer.  Jams  require 
constant  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  the  closest  attention,  as 
they  are  easily  burned,  and  if  in  the  slightest  degree,  the  flavor  is 
destroyed.  Put  up  in  small  jars,  of  either  glass  or  stone,  and  seal  or 
secure  like  canned  fruits  or  jellies. 

Jelly  should  be  examined  toward  the  end  of  summer,  and  if  there 
are  any  signs  of  fermentation,  reboil.  Jelly  needs  looking  after  more 
closely  in  damp,  rainy  weather  than  in  dry.  If  troubled  with  jelly 
getting  moldy,  cover  the  glasses  with  buttered  paper  pressed  down 
closely  to  the  jelly,  and  paste  as  usual.  To  test  jelly,  drop  a  little  in  a 
glass  of  very  cold  water,  and  if  it  immediately  falls  to  the  bottom,  it  is 
done  ;  or  drop  it  on  a  saucer  and  set  it  on  ice,  and  if  it  does  not  spread 
but  remains  rounded,  it  is  done.  A  very  little  butter  rubbed  with  a 
cloth  on  the  outside  of  jelly  glasses  or  cans,  will  enable  one  to  pour  in 
the  boiling  fruit  without  breaking  the  cans.  If  jelly  is  not  hrm  let  it 
stand  in  the  hot  sun  for  a  few  days  covered  with  thin  cloth,  or  window 
glass.  Jellies  and  jams  should  be  covered  with  paper  dipped  in  the 
purest  salad  oil,  and  one  tissue  paper  stretched  over  the  top,  cut  about 
two  inches  larger,  and  brushed  with  the  white  of  an  egg- ;  then,  when 
dry,  they  will  be  perfectly  hard  and  air-tight.  They  should  then  be  set 
away  in  a  dry,  cool  and  dark  place. 


APPLE  JAM. 

Peel  and  core  the  apples,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  put  them  in  a  preserv- 
ing kettle  with  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar  to  every  pound 
of  fruit;  add  (tied  up  in  a  piece  of  musUn)  a  few  cloves,  a  small  piece 
of  ginger  and  a  thin  rind  of  lemon  ;  stir  on  a  quick  fire  for  half  an  hour. . 


JAMS  AND  JELLIES,  513 

APRICOT  JAM. 

Pare  the  apricots,  which  should  be  ripe,  as  thinly  as  possible ;  break 
them  in  half  and  remove  the  stones,  weigh  the  fruit,  and  to  every  po-und 
allow  the  same  proportion  of  loaf  sugar;  roll  the  sugar  fine,  strew  it 
over  the  apricots,  which  should  be  placed  on  dishes,  and  let  them 
remain  for  twelve  hours,  then  put  the  sugar  or  fruit  into  a  preserving 
pan,  let  them  simmer  very  gently  until  clear,  take  out  the  pieces  of 
apricots  singly  as  they  become  clear,  and  as  fast  as  the  scum  arises 
carefully  remove  it ;  put  the  apricots  in  small  jars,  pour  over  them  the 
syrup,  and  put  up  the  same  as  jelly. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM. 

To  each  pound  of  fruit  add  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  then 
put  together  and  boil  from  one-half  to  three-fourths  of  an  hour. 

CHERRY  jXM. 

To  every  pound  of  fruit,  weighed  before  stoning,  allow  one-half 
pound  of  sugar ;  to  every  six  pounds  of  fruit  allow  one  pint  of  red  cur- 
rant juice,  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  one  pound  of  sugar.  Weigh  the 
fruit  before  stoning,  and  allow  half  the  weight  of  sugar ;  stone  the 
cherries  and  boil  them  in  a  preserving  pan  until  nearly  all  the  juice  is 
dried  up  ;  then  add  the  sugar,  which  should  be  crushed  to  powder,  and 
the  currant  juice,  allowing  one  pint  to  one  pound  of  sugar. 

WHITE  OR  RED  CURRANT  JAM. 

Pick  the  fruit  very  nicely,  and  allow  an  equal  quantity  of  purely  pow- 
dered loaf  sugar  ;  put  a  layer  of  each  alternately  into  a  preserving  pan, 
and  boil  for  ten  minutes ;  or  they  may  be  boiled  the  same  length  of 
time  in  sugar  previously  clarified  and  boiled  like  candy. 

DAMSON  CHEESE. 

Take  twelve  pounds  of  damsons  and  put  them  into  the  oven ;  when 
they  are  soft  take  out  the  stones,  crack  them  and  then  blanch  the  ker- 
nels, then  add  three  and  a  half  pounds  of  lump  sugar  ;  boil  about  three 
hours  ;  wet  the  molds  before  using  them.  Weigh  the  damsons  before 
they  are  put  into  the   oven. 

GOOSEBERRY  JAM. 

Take  what  quantity  you  please  of  red,  rough,  ripe  gooseberries,  take 
half    the  quantity  of  lump   sugar;  break   them   well   and   boil   them 
together  for  half  an  hour  or  more,  if  necessary. 
33 


514  JAMS  AND  JELLIES. 

GRAPE  JAM. 

Boil  ripe  grapes  to  a  soft  pulp  (about  one  hour  and  a  half  will  do)  and 
strain  through  a  sieve ;  weigh  them  and  to  every  pound  of  fruit  allow 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  boil  together  twenty  minutes,  stir 
and  strain. 

GREEN  GAGE  JAM. 

To  every  pound  of  fruit  weighed  before  being  stoned,  allow  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  lump  sugar.  Divide  the  green  gages,  take  out 
the  stones,  and  put  them  into  a  preserving  pan  ;  bring  the  fruit  to  a 
boil,  then  add  the  sugar,  and  keep  stirring  it  over  a  gentle  fire  until  it  is 
melted ;  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  just  before  the  jam  is  done, 
boil  it  rapidly  for  five  minutes. 

LEMON  CONSERVE. 

One  pound  powdered  white  sugar,  quarter  pound  fresh  butter,  six 
eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  two,  adding  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
three  fine  lemons.  Put  all  into  a  saucepan ;  stir  the  whole  gently  over 
a  slow  fire  until  it  gets  thick  as  honey.  A  deUcious  spread  for  bread, 
biscuit  or  rolls. 

LEMON   CHEESECAKES. 

Grate  the  rind  of  two  lemons  and  squeeze  their  juice  into  a  bowl ; 
add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
fresh  butter ;  beat  up  three  eggs,  mix  altogether,  and  they  will  be  ready 
to  make  into  tartlets  or  open  tarts. 

PEACH  JAM. 

Gather  the  peaches  when  quite  ripe,  peel  and  stone  them,  put  them 
in  a  preserving  pan,  mash  them  over  the  fire  till  hot ;  rub  them  through 
a  sieve,  and  add  to  a  pound  of  pulp  the  same  weight  of  pounded  loaf 
sugar,  and  half  an  ounce  of  bitter  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded  ;  let 
it  boil  ten  or  twelve  minutes.     Stir  and  skim  it  well. 

RASPBERRY  JAM. 

Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit ;  put  the 
fruit  on  alone  or  with  the  addition  of  half  a  pint  of  currant  juice  to  every 
four  pounds  of  fruit ;  boil  half  an  hour,  mashing  and  stirring  well ;  add 
the  sugar,  and  cook  twenty  minutes  more.  Blackberry  jam  is  very 
good  made  as  above,  omitting  the  currant  juice. 

STRAWBERRY  JAM. 

To  every  pound  of  fruit  allow  three-fourths  pound  of  sugar,  one  pint 
of  red  currant  juice  to  every  four   pounds  of  strawberries.     Boil  the 


JAMS  AND  JELLIES.  515 

currant  juice  with  the  strawberries  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  all  the 
time  ;  add  the  sugar  and  boil  twenty  minutes  more,  skimming  care- 
fully.    The  currant  juice  may  be  omitted,  but  it  improves  the  jam. 

APPLE   JELLY. 

Peel  and  core  a  quantity  of  apples  and  then  stew  them  until  there  are 
no  lumps  in  the  mass,  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve,  pressing  them  all 
through  with  the  hand.  Throw  out  all  tough  or  woody  bits,  or  the 
remains  of  dry  bruised  places  before  refilling  the  sieve.  Then  take  a  tin 
cup  and  measure  the  cooked  apples,  and  to  every  four  cups  of  apples 
add  one  cup  of  fine,  dry  sugar.  Boil  until  it  makes  a  stiff  jam  ;  put  in 
bowls  and  jars  and  set  away  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Peach  butter  of  dried 
peaches  can  be  made  in  this  way,  only  to  every  three  cups  of  the 
peach  sauce  add  one  cup  of  sugar. 

Or,  take  tart  juicy  apples,  cut  in  pieces,  core  them  if  at  all  defective  ; 
add  water  to  just  cover  them  ;  stew  ger^tly  till  tender  ;  turn  into  a  bag 
or  strainer  of  cloth  ;  let  drain  over  night,  or  for  several  hours  ;  then  put 
back  on  the  stove,  heat  and  skim  ;  add  three-fourths  pint  of  sugar  to  a 
pint  of  juice ;  boil  about  ten  minutes  ;  seal  up  like  jelly. 

CALF'S  FOOT  JELLY. 

Take  two  calves'  feet ;  add  to  them  one  gallon  of  water ;  boil  them 
down  to  one  quart ;  strain,  and  when  cold  remove  all  fat  ;  then  add  the 
whites  of  six  or  eight  eggs  (well  beaten),  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  the 
juice  of  four  lemons  ;  mix  well.  Boil  for  a  minute,  constantly  stirring  ; 
then  strain  through  a  flannel  bag. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Allow  three-quarters  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  juice  :  boil  juice  hard 
fifteen  minutes  ;  heat  the  sugar  in  the  oven,  add  to  juice  and  boil  hard 
five  minutes  ;  put  into  molds,  sprinkle  with  finely-pulverized  sugar  (to 
prevent  mold)  and  seal  either  hot  or  cold. 

UNC00KEI5  CURRANT  JELLY. 

To  one  pint  of  currant  juice  add  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  stir 
the  juice  very  slowly  into  the  sugar  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  let 
it  stand  twenty-four  hours  and  it  will  be  stiff  jelly.  Tie  it  with  paper 
dipped  in  brandy,  and  set  it  in  the  sun.  Half  a  bushel  of  currants 
makes  twenty-two  and  one-half  pint  glasses  of  jelly. 

RED  CURRANT  JELLY. 

Strip  carefully  from  the  stems  some  quite  ripe  currants  of  the  first 
quaUty,  and  mix  with  them  an  equal  weight  of  good  sugar  reduced  to 


516  JAMS  AND  JELLIES, 

powder;  boil  these  together  quickly  for  exactly  eight  minutes;  keep 
them  stirred  all  the  time,  and  clear  off  the  scum  as  it  rises  ;  then  turn 
the  preserve  into  a  very  clean  sieve,  and  put  into  small  jars  the  jelly 
which  runs  through  it,  which  will  be  delicious  in  flavor  and  of  the 
brightest  color.  It  should  be  carried  immediately,  when  this  is  practi- 
cable, to  an  extremely  cool  but  not  damp  place,  and  left  there  till  per- 
fectly cold.  The  currants  which  remain  in  the  sieve  make  an  excellent 
jam,  particularly  if  only  one  part  of  the  jelly  be  taken  from  them.  In 
Normandy,  where  the  fruit  is  of  richer  quality,  this  preserve  is  boiled 
only  one  minute,  and  is  both  firm  and  beautifully  transparent. 

ELDERBERRY  JELLY. 

For  six  pounds  of  berries  take  four  pounds  of  sugar ;  make  same  as 
currant  jelly. 

GOOSEBERRY  JELLY. 

Boil  six  pounds  of  green,  unripe  gooseberries  in  six  pints  of  water 
(they  must  be  well  boiled  but  not  burst  too  much)  ;  pour  them  into  a 
basin  and  let  them  stand  covered  with  a  cloth  for  twenty-four  hours, 
then  strain  through  a  jelly-bag,  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound 
of  sugar.  Boil  it  for  an  hour ;  then  skim  it  and  boil  it  for  a  half  hour 
longer  with  a  sprig  of  vanilla. 

GRAPE  JELLY. 

Take  perfectly  fresh  grapes,  then  remove  the  stems  and  put  the  ber- 
ries over  the  fire  in  an  earthenware  pan  or  porcelain  lined  kettle ;  crush 
a  few  berries  on  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  to  prevent  burning ;  let  them 
boil  up,  remove  from  the  fire  and  hang  up  in  the  jelly  bag  to  drain; 
when  the  juice  is  all  drained  off,  weigh  it  and  return  it  to  the  kettle  and 
fire  ;  boil  it  twenty  minutes,  skimming  when  necessary ;  then  add  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  juice,  and  boil  it  till  it 
is  thick  enough  to  suit.  ,  If  one  fancies  pale-colored  jellies,  a  very  good 
one  may  be  made  from  Concord  grapes,  by  removing  the  skins  before 
cooking  the  grapes  and  then  proceeding  as  above. 

WILD  GRAPE  JELLY. 

Wash  and  pick  the  grapes  from  the  stems  just  before  they  are  ripe ; 
put  them  over  the  fire  in  porcelain-lined  kettle,  with  a  little  water,  to 
keep  them  from  burning,  and  stew  a  few  moments,  then  mash  gently 
with  a  silver  spoon ;  strain,  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  allow  a  pound  of 
white  sugar;  put  the  juice  back  on  the  fire  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes  ; 
pour  in  sugar — lump  or  granulated — and  stir  constantly  until  all  is  dis- 
solved ;  then,  without  any  more  boiling,  fill  the  jelly  glasses. 


JAM:^  AND  JELLIES.  517 

LEMON  JELLY. 

Four  ounces  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  the  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  two  lemons.  Put  all  in  a  pan  over  a  slow  fire,  gently  stir- 
ring until  it  is  as  thick  as  cream ;  then  pour  it  into  jars,  cover,  and  keep 
in  a  dry  place.  Or,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  pint:;  of  boiling 
water,  one  ounce  of  isinglass  soaked  two  or  more  hours  in  half  a  pint 
of  cold  water,  half  a  gill  of  wine,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  three 
lemons;  pour  the  boihng  water  on  the  isinglass,  stir  it,  and  add  the 
other  ingredients ;  then  pour  in  molds  w^et  in  cold  water. 

LEMON  SNOW  JELLY. 

Dissolve  one  box  of  gelatine  in  nearly  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  then 
add  the  juice  of  five  lemons  and  enough  of  sugar  to  sweeten  to  taste ; 
strain  and  set  aside  until  nearly  cool.  Beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  and 
whip  into  the  jelly ;  turn  into  a  dish  and  let  it  stand  until  cold.  After 
it  becomes  cold  decorate  with  pieces  of  red  jelly. 

MUSCADINE  JELLY. 

Pulp  the  muscadines,  saving  all  the  pulp  and  juice,  and  to  one  quart 
throw  in  a  dozen  or  so  of  the  hulls  to  give  it  a  rich  crimson  color. 
Without  the  hulls  the  jelly  will  have  a  muddy  color,  and  too  much  of 
them  gives  a  dark  ugly  red.  After  putting  in  the  hulls,  if  you  find  there 
is  not  juice  enough  to  prevent  scorching,  add  a  little  water,  then  set  on 
a  brisk  fire  and  let  it  cook  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes ;  remove  from 
the  fire  and  strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  This  is  the  only  time  it  must 
be  strained.  To  one  quart  of  juice  add  one  pint  of  sugar,  and  return  to 
the  fire  and  let  it  boil  hard  twenty  minutes  without  stirring.  Then  take 
out  a  little  in  a  saucer  and  let  it  cool ;  if  not  stiff  enough  let  it  boil 
longer. 

ORANGE  JELLY. 

Grate  the  peel  of  five  fine  oranges  and  two  lemons  into  a  bowl; 
squeeze  the  juice  of  them  into  it ;  boil  one  pound  of  sugar  in  a  quart  of 
water,  and,  when  boihng  hard,  pour  it  over  two  ounces  of  isinglass ; 
stir  until  it  is  dissolved ;  add  the  juice  to  it,  strain  through  coarse  mus- 
lin, and  let  it  stand  until  half  cold  ;  then  pour  gently  into  molds  which 
have  been  wet  with  cold  water.  Before  turning  out  put  the  molds  into 
warm  v^ater ;  loosen  the  edges  with  a  spoon. 

PEACH  JELLY. 

In  order  to  make  good  jelly,  wipe  the  down  off  your  peaches,  which 
should  be  free  stones,  and  not  too  ripe ;  cut  them  in  quarters  ;  crack 
the  stones  and  break  the  kernels  small ;  put  the  peaches  and  kernels 


518  JAMS  AND  JELLIES. 

into  a  covered  jar ;  set  them  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  let  them 
boil  till  they  are  soft ;  strain  them  through  a  jelly  bag ;  allow  a  pound 
of  loaf  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice ;  put  the  juice  into  a  preserving  kettle 
and  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  briskly ;  then  add  the  sugar  and  dis- 
solve ;  skim  carefully  and  pour  into  glasses.  After  canning  peaches 
if  there  is  more  juice  than  can  be  used  ;  put  sugar  in,  the  same  as  for 
jelly,  and  make  it  the  same  as  above.-  Any  kind  of  jelly  can  be  made 
from  the  juice  of  fruits  when  there  is  more  than  can  be  used  for  can- 
ning. 

PIE  PLANT  JELLY. 

Pick  the  pie  plant  and  wash,  but  do  not  peel  it,  cut  in  strips,  put  in  the 
kettle ;  add  enough  water  to  cook  until  soft,  strain  the  juice  ofif  and 
weigh ;  add  sugar  pound  for  pound ;  cook  ten  minutes,  or  as  thick  as 
desired. 

PINE  APPLE  JELLY. 

Take  one  pine  apple,  or  one  can  of  pine  apples,  and  cut  very  fine,  and 
boil  ten  minutes  in  a  pint  of  water  which  has  half  a  box  of  gelatine  dis- 
solved in  it ;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  sugar  to  your  taste ;  turn  into 
a  mold,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  twenty-four  hours. 

PIG  OR  CALVES'  FOOT  JELLY. 

Take  the  feet,  strike  them  against  a  hard  substance  to  get  the  hoof 
off,  and  then  put  them  in  clean  water  without  salt,  and  let  them  remain 
so  three  days,  changing  water  night  and  morning.  On  the  fourth  day 
take  out  early  and  have  ready  on  the  fire  a  pot  of  water ;  put  the  feet  in 
and  boil  hard  for  three  or  four  hours,  filling  up  the  pot  with  boiling 
water  as  fast  as  it  boils  down.  About  a  half  hour  before  it  is  done, 
allow  the  water  to  boil  down  to  the  quantity  of  jelly  you  wish  to  make. 
When  done  the  meat  will  fall  from  the  bones  when  touched  with  a  fork  ; 
it  must  then  be  all  lifted  out,  and  strain  the  Hquor  in  bowls,  and  set  in 
a  cool  place  until  the  next  morning;  then  skim  off  all  the  grease 
upon  the  jelly  and  sides  of  the  bowls,  else  the  jelly  will  be  dark.  Now 
put  the  jelly  on  to  boil,  and  when  it  boils  up  pour  in  one  large  cup  of 
whisky,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and 
mace,  and  flavor  with  lemon  or  orange  peel.  Let  it  continue  to  boil 
fifteen  minutes.  Pour  in  a  cup  of  water;  take  it  off;  let  it  set  five 
minutes ;  return  it  to  the  fire  and  let  it  again  come  to  abo  il.  Have 
ready  your  jelly  bag,  pour  it  back  and  forth  as  fast  as  it  drips  out,  the 
oftener  the  clearer  the  jelly  will  be.  Finally,  hang  it  up  and  let  drip 
slowly. 

PLUM  JELLY. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  plums  sufficient  to  cover  them.  Pour  off 
the  water  immediately  and  drain.     Then  put  the  plums  in  a  preserving 


JAMS  AND  JELLIES.  519 

kettle  with  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  them  again,  and  boil  until 
they  begin  to  open  and  some  of  the  juice  is  extracted ;  pour  off  the 
liquid  and  strain  it ;  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  of  white  sugar; 
return  to  the  kettle  and  boil  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  as  it  may 
require.  The  plums  may  be  used  for  sauce  or  pies  and  are  as  good  as 
though  they  had  not  gone  through  the  above  operation. 

WILD  PLUM  JELLY. 

Fill  your  preserving  kettle  with  the  plums,  and  cover  them  with  water ; 
let  come  to  a  boil,  and  as  soon  as  they  begin  to  burst  drain  off  the  water 
-and  throw  it  away  (it  is  not  fit  for  use  on  account  of  its  extreme  bitter- 
ness) ;  fill  up  your  kettle  again  wdth  water,  and  let  boil  till  the  plums 
have  cooked  to  pieces ;  drain  off,  and  to  every  pint  add  one-half  pint  of 
sugar  and  cook  until  it  jellies 

For  jam,  take  the  pulp  left  after  you  drained  off  the  water  for  your 
jelly,  and  for  every  pound  add  a  pound  of  sweetening,  equal  proportion 
of  sugar  and  molasses,  or  all  sugar,  if  preferred,  and  cook  until  reduced 
to  a  jam.     This  makes  a  most  delightful  tart  for  winter. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

Peel,  cut  up  and  core  some  fine  ripe  quinces ;  put  them  in  sufficient 
cold  water  to  cover  them  and  stew  gently  till  soft,  but  not  red.  Strain 
the  juice  without  pressure,  weigh,  and  to  every  pound  of  juice  allow 
one  pound  of  crushed  sugar ;  boil  the  juice  twenty  minutes,  add  the 
sugar  and  boil  again  until  it  jellies — about  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  stir 
and  skim  well  all  the  time  ;  strain  through  thin  cloth  into  your  jelly 
glasses  and  when  cold  cover  it.  The  remainder  of  the  fruit  can  be  made 
into  marmalade  with  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  juicy  apples  to  every  pound  of  quinces,  or  it  can  be  made 
into  pies  or  tarts. 

RHUBARB  JELLY. 

Wash  the  stalks  well  but  do  not  peel  them  ;  cut  into  pieces  about  an 
inch  long,  put  them  into  a  preserving  kettle  with  about  half  enough 
water  to  cover  and  boil  to  a  soft  pulp  ;  strain  through  a  jelly  bag.  To 
each  pint  of  this  juice  add  a  pound  of  sugar  (loaf  is  best) ;  boil  again, 
skimming  often,  and  when  it  jeUies  on  the  skimmer  remove  it  from  the 
fire  and  put  into  pans. 

STRAWBERRY  JELLY. 

Take  small  berries,  do  not  stem  them,  but  strain  through  a  cloth  or 
jelly  strainer ;  put  the  juice  on  the  stove,  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 
Then  measure  a  pint  of  juice  and  a  pint  and  a  third  of  sugar,  set  on  and 
boil  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  longer.  Let  it  drop  off  the  spoon ; 
when  it  drops  off  thick  and  heavy  it  will  jelly.  Then  take  it  off  and  fill 
the  glasses,  having  previously  dipped  them  in  cold  water,  so  that  the 
jelly  will  turn  out  nicely. 


520  MEATS. 


MEATS. 


GENERAL  REMARKS. 


Meat,  to  be  in  perfection,  should  be  kept  a  number  of  days,  when  the 
weather  will  admit  of  it.  Beef  and  mutton  should  be  kept  at  least  a 
week  in  cold  weather  and  poultry  three  or  four  days.  In  the  summer 
meat  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  airy  place,  away  from  the  flies,  and  if 
there  is  any  danger  of  its  spoiling,  a  httle  salt  should  be  rubbed  over  it. 
Or  it  may  be  kept  sweet,  even  in  very  warm  weather,  by  covering  it 
lightly  with  bran  and  hanging  it  in  a  draught  in  a  shady,  cool  room. 
Meat  can  also  be  preserved  by  washing  the  meat,  drying  it  and  laying 
in  strong  vinegar,  or  by  being  boiled  in  the  vinegar,  leaving  it  in  until 
cold,  and  then  setting  aside  in  a  cool  cellar. 

To  thaw  frozen  meat,  place  it  for  a  few  hours  in  cold  water,  the  ice 
which  forms  on  the  surface  as  it  thaws  being  easily  removed.  If 
cooked  before  entirely  thawed,  it  will  be  tough.  Meat  once  frozen 
should  not  be  allowed  to  thaw  until  just  before  cooking. 

Boiling  fresh  meat  is  a  science,  for  if  not  properly  boiled  it  is  tough 
and  tasteless.  To  make  fresh  meat  nutritious  and  to  confine  its  rich 
juices,  place  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water — pure  soft  water  is  best — 
placing  it  where  it  will  slowly  but  constantly  boil.  Skim  it  well  the 
first  time  it  boils  up,  and  keep  the  meat  constantly  turned  and  under  the 
water,  adding  fresh  hot  water  as  it  evaporates  in  boiling.  Do  not  let 
the  meat  remain  long  in  the  water  after  it  is  done,  as  it  injures  it,  and 
add  salt  when  the  meat  is  nearly  done,  as  it  extracts  the  juices  of  the 
meat  if  added  too  soon. 

Salt  meat  should  be  put  on  in  cold  water  so  that  it  may  freshen  in 
cooking.  Allow  twenty-five  minutes  for  the  fresh  and  thirty-five  for  the 
salt  meat ;  the  time  for  boiling  to  be  modified  by  the  quality  and  quan- 
tity of  the  meat.  A  pot  of  red  pepper  in  the  water  will  prevent  the 
unpleasant  odor  of  boiling  from  filling  the  house. 

The  liquor  in  which  any  kind  of  meat  is  boiled  makes  a  good  soup 
when  thickened  and  seasoned. 

Baking  meats  is  a  very  cheap  and  convenient  way  of  dressing  a  din- 
ner for  a  small  family.  Legs  and  loins  of  pork,  legs  of  mutton,  fillets 
of  veal,  and  many  other  joints  will  bake  to  great  advantage,  if  the  meat 
be  good  or  rather  fat ;  but.  if  poor  no  baking  will  give  satisfaction. 
Have  the  fire  bright  and  the  oven  hot,  wipe  the  meat  dry  with  a  towel, 
then,  if  not  thoroughly  clean,  dash  over  cold  water  and  quickly  wipe 
dry.  Have  the  pan  hot  when  you  put  the  meat  in.  If  it  is  beef,  put  it 
in  the  hot  pan  and  let  it  stand  a  half  moment  and  then  turn  it  over, 
thus  searing  both  sides  and   preventing  the  juices  from  running  so 


GENERAL  REMARKS.  521 

quickly.  Do  not  put  the  salt  and  pepper  on  the  meat,  but  put  it  in  the 
pan  with  the  water  and  then  baste  the  eat  mevery  three  or  four  min- 
utes. You  will  find  the  meat  will  be  thoroughly  seasoned  and  will  be 
much  more  juicy  and  tender,  than  by  the  old  way  of  rubbing  the  salt  on 
the  meat  ;  putting  the  salt  direct  on  the  meat  draws  the  juice  out  and 
toughens  it.  The  time  for  baking  meat  depends  upon  the  state  of  the 
oven  and  kind  of  meat  baked.  Fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound  and  fifteen 
minutes  longer  is  the  rule  for  beef  and  mutton,  and  twenty  minutes  to 
the  pound  and  twenty  minutes  longer  for  pork,  lamb  and  veal,  or  a 
little  less  if  wanted  very  rare.  When  done  the  roast  should  be  a  rich 
brown,  and  when  cut  the  bright  red  juices  should  follow  the  knife  of 
the  carver  ;  if  purple,  then  it  is  raw,  and  unfit  for  food. 

Broiling  is  the  favorite  method  of  cooking  steaks  and  chops  and  is 
most  acceptable  for  beef  and  mutton.  Cleanliness  in  this  mode  of  cooking 
is  very  essential.  Keep  the  gridiron  clean  between  the  bars,  and  bright 
on  the  top ;  when  it  is  hot  wipe  it  well  with  a  cloth  just  before  you  use 
it.  It  is  best  to  oil  the  gridiron  with  siiet,  and,  also,  to  heat  it  before 
putting  the  meat  on.  Chalk  is  sometimes  rubbed  on  the  gridiron,  when 
fish  is  to  be  broiled.  It  is  better  to  have  a  gridiron  expressly  for  fish, 
otherwise,  meat  is  often  made  to  taste  fishy. 

Tough  steak  is  made  more  tender  by  pounding  or  hacking  with  a  dull 
knife,  but  a  tender  steak  should  never  be  cut,  else  the  rich  juices  will  be 
lost.  Never  salt  or  pepper  steak  before  or  while  broiling,  but  if  very 
lean,  dip  in  melted  butter.  Steak  should  be  placed  over  a  hot,  clear  fire 
and  turned  often  so  that  the  inside  may  be  seared  at  once  to  retain  the 
juices.  When  done,  which  will  require  from  five  to  ten  minutes, 
according  to  thickness  of  steak,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  bits  of 
butter ;  cover  with  a  hot  platter  and  serve  at  once.  Use  the  best  of 
butter  for  steak,  and  handle  it  with  a  small  pair  of  broiling  tongues,  as 
a  fork  frees  the  juices.  If  fat  drops  on  the  coals  below  and  there  is 
danger  of  the  meat  tasting  smoky,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  on  the  coals  and 
withdraw  the  gridiron  for  a  moment.  Have  the  meal  all  ready  before 
broiling  the  steak  and  be  diligently  attentive  to  watch  the  moment  any- 
thing is  done.  Never  hasten  the  broiling  of  anything,  lest  you  spoil  it. 
Broiled  meats  must  be  brought  to  the  table  as  hot  as  possible. 

Frying  is  a  very  convenient  mode  of  cookery.  To  make  sure  that 
the  pan  is  quite  clean,  rub  a  little  fat  over  it,  and  then  make  it  warm, 
and  wipe  it  out  with  a  clean  cloth.  It  is  best  to  fry  in  lard  not  salted, 
and  this  is  better  than  butter.  Mutton  and  beef  suet  are  good  for  fry- 
ing. The  real  secret  in  frying  is  to  know  when  the  fat  is  of  a  proper 
heat — according  to  what  you  wish  to  fry.  When  the  lard  seems  hot, 
try  it  by  throwing  in  a  bit  of  bread.  To  fry  fish,  the  fire  must  be  very 
clear,  and  the  fat  very  hot.  When  taking  up  fried  articles,  drain  off  the 
fat  on  a  wire  sieve. 


522  MEATS. 

To  roast  meats  or  game  before  the  fire,  the  first  preparation  is  to  have 
the  spit  properly  cleansed.  It  is  well,  if  possible,  to  wash  them  before 
they  get  cold.  When  your  meat  is  thin  and  tender,  have  a  small,  brisk 
fire.  When  you  have  a  large  joint  to  roast,  make  up  a  sound,  strong 
fire,  equally  good  in  all  parts.  Set  the  meat,  at  first,  some  distance 
from  the  place  where  it  is  to  roast,  so  as  to  have  it  heat  through  grad- 
ually, and  then  move  it  up  to  roast.  Allow  about  fifteen  minutes  to 
the  pound  of  most  all  kinds  of  meat  in  warm  weather,  but  in  winter 
twenty  minutes.  When  the  meat  is  nearly  done,  stir  up  the  fire  to 
brown  it.  The  meat  should  be  basted  a  good  deal,  especially  the  first 
part  of  the  time.  A  pale  brown  is  the  proper  color  for  a  roast.  When 
the  meat  is  nearly  done,  the  steam  from  it  will  be  drawn  towards  the 
fire. 

Parsley  is  the  universal  garnish  for  all  kinds  of  cold  meats,  poul- 
try, fish,  etc.  Horse-radish  is  a  garnish  for  roast  beef,  and  slices  of 
lemon  for  roast  veal  and  calf's  head.  Carrots  in  slices,  for  boiled  beef, 
hot  or  cold.  Red  beet  root  sliced,  for  cold  meat  and  boiled  beef.  Mint 
either  with  or  without  parsley  for  roast  lamb,  either  hot  or  cold. 
Pickled  gherkins,  capers  or  boiled  onions,  for  boiled  meats  and  stews. 

BEEF  BALLS. 

Chop  very  fine  two  pounds  of  raw  beef  (off  the  round  is  best)  and 
one-fourth  pound  of  suet ;  mix  with  it  a  handful  of  flour ;  season  to 
taste  with  salt,  black  pepper  and  cloves  ;  mold  into  balls  or  cakes  (a 
little  thicker  than  codfish  cakes)  and  fry  in  suet  or  drippings  until  a  nice 
brown  on  both  sides,  keeping  the  cover  on  all  the  time. 

BREAKFAST  DISH. 

Take  about  half  a  pound  dried  beef,  first  sliced  thin,  then  pulled  in 
small  pieces.  Have  a  quart  of  milk  boiling,  into  which  put  the  beef 
with  a  good  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  pepper.  When  it  comes  to  a 
boil  thicken  with  a  Uttle  flour  ;  then  toast  bread,  a  slice  for  each  mem- 
ber of  family,  and  poach  in  hot  water  an  equal  number  of  eggs ;  place 
one  on  each  slice  of  toast ;  put  all  on  a  large  platter  and  pour  over  the 
above  dressing  and  send  to  the  table  hot ;  lean  ham  may  be  used  in 
place  of  the  beef. 

BRAISED  BEEF,  WITH  HORSERADISH  SAUCE. 

Braise  five  pounds  of  fresh  beef  (not  too  lean),  with  an  onion,  a  car- 
rot, sliced,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  four  or  five  cloves,  a  little  celery, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  quart  of  boihng  water ;  cover  tightly  and  let 
cook  about  three  hours,  replenishing  with  a  little  boiling  water  if  steam 
escapes  too  much.  Sauce— Simmer  together  for  quarter  of  an  hour  one- 
half  cup  of  grated  cracker,  one-half  cup  of  horseradish,   one  cup  of 


BEEFSTEAK,  523 

cream,  tablespoonful  of  fat  off  the  top  of  beef  water  ;  salt  and  pepper ; 
place  the  beef  on  a  platter ;  pour  sauce  around  it  and  garnish  with 
parsley. 

BEEFSTEAK  HASH. 

Chop  the  beef  as  if  for  hash  (if  it  is  frozen,  all  the  better) ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper;  fry  slightly  in  butter.  Steak  that  has  been 
cooked  is  also  good  for  this. 

BROILED  BEEFSTEAK. 

To  cook  a  good,  juicy  beefsteak,  never  pound  it,  but  slash  it  several 
times  across  each  way ;  have  a  nice,  bright  fire  and  broil  as  quickly 
as  possible,  without  burning.  Steak  should  be  turned  constantly  while 
broiling,  and  to  be  rare  should  not  cook  over  three  minutes ;  butter 
and  salt  after  taking  up.     This  should  be  served  very  hot. 

BEEFSTEAK  ROLLED. 

Procure  a  round  steak,  spread  over  it  &,  layer  of  dressing,  such  as  is 
used  for  turkeys.  Begin  at  one  end  of  the  steak  and  roll  it  carefully ; 
tie  the  roll  to  keep  it  in  shape.  Bake  in  the  oven,  basting  very  often. 
Make  a  gravy  of  the  drippings  and  pour  round  the  meat  when  ready  to 
serve. 

STUFFED   BEEFSTEAK. 

Cut  a  thick  slice  from  the  round,  in  shape  as  near  an  oblong  square 
as  possible  ;  rub  over  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  make  a  filling  of  stale 
bread  and  fat  salt  pork,  or  butter  if  preferred  ;  season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, sage,  etc.;  roll  it  up  in  the  steak,  sew  the  edges  of  the  slice  together, 
bake  in  a  quick  oven,  basting  often.  Make  a  dressing  of  the  drippings 
thickened  with  flour  and  seasoned. 

BEEFSTEAK  SMOTHERED  WITH  ONIONS. 

Cut  six  onions  very  fine,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  cups  hot 
water,  two  ounces  butter,  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  dredge  in  a  little 
flour.  Stir  them  until  soft ;  then  broil  the  steak,  then  put  it  into  the 
pan  with  the  onions ;  let  it  simmer  ten  minutes  and  send  to  the  table 
hot. 

FRIED  BEEFSTEAK. 

First  pound  your  steak  thoroughly,  heat  your  frying  pan  hot,  put  in 
a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  when  nicely  warmed  put  in  your  steak  ; 
sprinkle  over  salt  and  pepper.  Have  a  good  fire  and  hot  frying  pan  ; 
when  nicely  brown,  dish  up  on  a  warm  platter,  spread  over  a  little 
butter  and  set  in  the  oven  a  minute  or  two.  This  meat  is  next  to 
broiled  steak. 


524  ^'''lE^  TS. 


FRENCH  METHOD  OF  BROILING  STEAK. 

Have  the  steak  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick  ;,  sprinkle  lightly 
with  pepper,  dip  it  in  olive  oil  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  turn  it  every 
two  or  three  minutes  until  done  to  suit.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  finely 
minced  parsley  and  butter  mixed  together.  Garnish  with  fried  pota- 
toes. 

GERMAN  WAY  OF  FRYING  BEEFSTEAK. 

Pound  the  cut  steak  a  Httle,  salt  it  and  fry  quickly  with  hot  lard  on 
both  sides.  Pour  off  the  lard  and  place  the  steak  on  the  dish.  Put 
into  the  pan  some  fresh  butter  and  fry  in  it  some  finely  cut  onions ; 
pour  this  over  the  steak.  * 

ROAST  STEAK. 

Take  three  pounds  of  juicy  round  steak,  pound  it  well  to  make  it 
tender,  make  a  dressing  as  for  goose  or  duck  ;  spread  it  on  the  steak, 
roll  it  up  tightly  and  tie  with  a  strong  cord  ;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  baste  well  with  butter ;  roast  slowly,  cut  in  slices  and  serve 
hot  with  gravy.     Good  cold. 

STEWED  STEAK, 

Take  a  round  steak ;  fry  it  in  butter  just  to  brown,  but  not  cook, 
then  place  in  stew  pan  ;  take  one  onion,  one  carrot  and  two  turnips  and 
pare,  cutting  into  pieces  the  size  of  dice  ;  fry  brown  in  the  frying-pan  ; 
then  toss  into  stew  pan  with  enough  water  to  cover.  Let  it  stew  two 
hours,  then  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  thicken  with  flour.  Dissolve  the 
four  in  a  little  catsup  or  sauce.  This  improves  the  flavor.  Serve  with 
mashed  potatoes. 

SUPPER  DISH  OF  DRIED  BEEF. 

Chip  the  beef  thin  and  place  it  in  a  stew  pan  with  some  milk  and  a 
small  piece  of  butter ;  have  ready  some  flour  wet  with  cold  milk  and 
stir  in  the  beef  when  it  comes  to  a  boil. 

FRIED  BRAINS. 

Soak  in  hot  water  a  few  minutes,  when  they  can  be  cleansed  readily ; 
then  cut  into  pieces  ;  salt  and  pepper ;  dip  in  beaten  eggs ;  roll  in  com 
meal  and  fry. 

BRAINS  WITH  SAUCE. 

Boil  them  in  salt  water ;  put  in  a  saucepan  a  spoon  of  butter ;  add 
flour,  then  water  gradually  until  of  the  consistency  of  cream  ;  stir  into 
it  the  yolks  of  two  well  beaten  eggs,  and  remove  from  the  fire  immedi- 
ately ;  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  may  be  added  or  not,  as  the  taste  die- 


BEEF  KIDNEY,  FRIZZLED  BACON.  525 

tates.     It  should  be  sent  to  table  immediately,  as  it  is  apt  to  thicken 
if  it  stands  any  time. 

BUBBLE  AND  SQUEAK. 

Boil, chop  and  fry,  with  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  some  cabbage 
and  lay  on  it  slices  of  fried  beef,  lightly  fried. 

FRENCH  BEEF  KIDNEY. 

Slice  the  kidney  rather  thin,  after  having  stripped  off  the  skin  and 
removed  the  fat ;  season  it  with  pepper  salt  and  grated  nutmeg,  and 
sprinkle  over  it  plenty  of  minced  parsley  and  eschallots  chopped  very 
small.  Fry  the  slices  over  a  brisk  fire,  and  when  nicely  browned  on 
both  sides  stir  amongst  them  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  pour  in  by 
degrees  a  cup  of  gravy  and  a  glass  of  white  wine.  Bring  the  sauce  to 
the  point  of  boiling,  add  a  morsel  of  fresh  butter  and  tablespoonful 
of  lemon  juice,  and  pour  the  whole  into  a  hot  dish  garnished  with  fried 
bread. 

FRIZZLED  BACON. 

Steam  some  rice ;  when  done,  beat  up  a  few  eggs  into  it  and  a  piece 
of  butter.     Just  warm  up  over  the  fire  and  serve  with  frizzled  bacon. 

COLD  MEAT  UTILIZED. 

Chop  your  beef  very  fine,  then  soak  your  bread  in  cold  water  till  it  is 
very  soft ;  take  it  in  the  hands  and  squeeze  as  much  of  the  water  out 
as  you  can,  having  two-thirds  as  much  bread  as  meat ;  mix  the  bread 
and  meat  thoroughly  together  ;  beat  three  eggs  well  and  mix  in  ;  add 
salt  to  taste  ;  make  in  balls  the  size  of  a  biscuit,  and  fry  slowly  in  but- 
ter or  cooking  fat  until  brown  on  both  sides. 

COLD  MEAT  TURNOVERS. 

Make  the  dough  as  for  soda  biscuit ;  roll  thin  and  cut  circles  as  large 
as  liked.  In  this  put  any  kind  of  cold  fresh  meat  or  game  chopped 
fine  and  well  seasoned  with  catsup  and  sweet  herbs,  moistened  well 
with  melted  butter  and  cream.  Lay  the  meat  on  one  side,  turn  over 
the  other  and  pinch  down  the  edges.  They  can  be  baked  in  the  oven 
or  fried  in  hot  lard,  hke  doughnuts,  and  are  very  good,  hot  or  cold. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.  These  are  very  nice  for  picnics,  bi^ 
should  be  baked,  as  they  keep  fresher  than  those  fried  in  lard. 

ESCALLOPED  MEAT. 

Take  bits  of  cold  roast  or  tender  steak,  chop  fine,  and  season  with 
sage,  pepper  and  salt ;  prepare  bread  or  crackers  as  for  stuffing  a  tur- 
nkey ;  butter  a  dish  (earthen  baking  dish  is  the  best)  ;  cover  the  bottom 


526  MEA  TS. 

of  the  dish  with  a  layer  of  stuffing  ;  add  a  layer  of  meat ;  alternate  the 
stuifing  and  the  meat  until  the  dish  is  full ;  finish  with  dressing ;  cover  the 
top  with  small  pieces  of  butter,  and  bake  a  nice  brown.'  This  makes  a 
very  palatable  dish,  and  is  a  nice  way  to  use  up  stale  bread  and  pieces 
of  meat. 

STEAK  SINOLAISE. 

Procure  a  thick  steak  off  the  round  of  beef  or  veal,  wash  it  clean ; 
make  three  or  four  incisions,  in  which  place  small  cloves  or  garlic  (this 
may  be  omitted  if  disagreeable  to  the  taste)  ;  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar ;  let  it  stand  half  an  hour ;  have  ready 
hot,  a  flat  saucepan,  large  enough  for  the  meat  to  lie  in  flat ;  spread  sweet 
lard  on  both  sides  of  the  steak ;  sprinkle  it  thickly  with  flour  and  fry 
under  cover  (to  preserve  the  odor),  to  a  light  brown  color  on  both  sides. 
Slice  four  silver-skin  onions,  chop  fine  a  little  parsley,  thyme,  sage,  or 
other  fine  herbs,  and  place  them  on  the  meat ;  add  a  clove,  a  spice  or 
two  and  one  or  two  leaves  of  laurer  (sweet  laurel).  Cover  the  whole 
with  cold  water,  put  on  the  lid  and  let  this  stew  simmer  slowly  over  a 
slow  fire  until  it  forms  a  rich,  thick  gravy.  Serve  hot,  with  plain  boiled 
rice,  and  you  will  have  a  dinner — a  feast — fit  for  a  prince  or  a  peasant, 
at  a  small  cost. 

ELEPHANT  ON  TOAST. 

Take  cold  meat  and  put  it  on  the  fire  in  the  stew-pan  with  a  little 
water.  When  tender,  take  it  up  and  mince  very  fine  ;  then  put  it  back 
and  flavor  with  pepper  and  salt.  Make  some  toast,  butter  each  slice, 
and  spread  the  mince  over  each  piece,  then  pour  the  gravy  over  it. 
Serve  very  hot. 

FROGS  AND  TOMATOES. 

Put  the  frog  legs  in  boiling  water ;  take  them  out  and  place  them  in 
cold  water;  prepare  tomatoes  as  for  a  sauce;  put  in  a  frying-pan 
the  frog-legs,  with  a  piece  of  butter,  and  fry  them  gently.  Serve  the 
legs,  nicely  arranged  in  the  tomato  sauce.  Garnish  with  toast,  cut  in 
lozenges. 

BROILED  HAM. 

Cut  large  slices,  remove  most  of  the  fat ;  broil  over  a  hot  fire,  turn- 
ing often  until  both  sides  are  well  done  ;  lay  on  a  platter,  spread  with 
butter,  and  serve  at  once. 

BOILED  HAM. 

Wash  the  ham  thoroughly  and  let  it  soak  in  plenty  of  water,  mixed 
with  one  pint  of  yeast,  over  night ;  boil  fresh  water,  add  one  pint  of 
yeast,  and  put  in  the  ham  to  boil  slowly.  A  wisp  of  new  hay  put  into 
the  bottom  of  the  kettle  mellows  the  taste,  and  keeps  it  from  being 
burned. 


HAM.  52Y 

BAKED  HAM. 

As  a  ham  for  baking  should  be  well  soaked,  let  it  remain  in  water 
for  at  least  twelve  hours.  Wipe  it  dry,  trim  away  any  rusty  places 
underneath,  and  cover  it  with  a  common  crust,  taking  care  that  this  is  of 
sufficient  thickness  all  over  to  keep  the  gravy  in  ;  place  in  a  moderately 
heated  oven  and  bake  for  nearly  four  hours.  Take  off  the  crust  and 
skin,  and  cover  with  raspings  the  same  as  for  boiled  ham,  and  garnish 
the  knuckle  v^ith  a  paper  frill.  This  method  of  cooking  a  ham  is  by 
many  persons  considered  far  superior  to  boiling  it,  as  it  cuts  fuller  of 
gravy,  and  has  a  finer  flavor,  besides  keeping  good  a  much  longer  time. 

GLAZED  HAM. 

Soak  and  boil  a  ham  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound,  and  let  it  get 
almost  cold  in  the  water  ;  skin  it  neatly  and  coat  with  a  paste  made  of 
a  cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  one  of  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  and  seasoned 
with  pepper.  Set  the  ham  in  the  oven  until  the  glazing  is  browned 
moistening  now  and  then  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream.  Wind  frilled 
paper  about  the  shank  and  garnish  with  pastry. 

HAM   BALLS. 

Chop  fine  cold  cooked  ham  ;  add  an  ^%%  for  each  person  and  a  little 
flour  ;  beat  together  and  make  into  balls  ;  fry  brown  in  hot  butter. 

HAM  OMELET. 

Chop  up  fine  one-half  pound  of  cold  boiled  ham ;  add  to  it  four  eggs, 
well  beaten,  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper ;  then  place  in  a  pan  a  small 
piece  of  butter,  and  then  turn  in  the  eggs  and  ham  and  brown. 

BAKED  OR  ROASTED  HEART. 

Take  an  ox  heart  and  wipe  it  dry,  trim  and  clean  it  well ;  fill  the  cav- 
ities with  a  stuffing  made  thus :  Crumbs  of  bread  (the  quantity  must 
depend  upon  the  size  of  the  heart),  chopped  suet  or  butter  two  ounces, 
parsley  or  sweet  marjoram,  or  any  herbs  preferred,  chopped  ;  lemon  peel 
grated,  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg,  with  the  yolk  of  an  ^gg ;  mix  and  fill 
the  cavities  of  the  heart.  Serve  it  with  gravy,  melted  butter  and  cur- 
rant jelly.  It  may  be  either  baked  or  roasted  (as  preferred),  in  this 
way,  and  will  require  a  quarter  of  an  hour  for  each  pound  weight. 
Some  people  do  not  like  herbs  or  nutmeg  for  seasoning,  but  they  can 
easily  be  left  out. 

Or,  cut  into  pieces  lengthwise,  the  pieces  not  being  thicker  than  one 
inch.  Broil  with  a  piece  of  fat  or  bacon  for  ten  minutes ;  serve  with  a 
little  currant  jelly  and  butter  under  the  slices. 


628  MEATS. 

Or,  wash  in  several  waters,  cut  into  pieces  lengthwise ;  take  a  baking 
dish  and  lay  some  slices  of  potatoes  at  the  bottom,  then  a  few  slices  of 
bacon,  then  the  pieces  of  meat,  another  layer  of  bacon ;  season  each 
layer  to  liking,  and  fill  up  the  spaces  with  veal  stuffing  made  into  balls ; 
add  water  and  bake  an  hour. 

Kidney  and  heart  may  be  mixed.  Calf  s  heart  may  be  dressed  in  the 
same  way,  or  be  stuffed  with  veal  stuffing  and  baked  upon  potatoes. 

Small  hearts,  as  of  sheep,  lambs,  may  be  stuffed,  inclosed  in  paste 
with  a  bit  of  fat  bacon  wrapped  around  them  and  baked. 

Cold  heart  may  be  baked  the  same  as  beef,  the  dressing  being 
mixed  with  the  gravy. 

LAMB  CHOPS. 

Trim  off  the  flap  from  a  fine  loin  of  lamb  and  cut  into  chops  about 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Have  ready  a  bright,  clear  fire  ; 
lay  the  chops  on  the  gridiron  and  broil  them  to  a  nice  pale  brown, 
turning  them  when  required.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Or, 
sprinkle  with  vmegar,  pepper  and  salt ;  dip  them  in  ^gg,  roll  in 
cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  and  iry.  Serve  very  hot  and  quickly,  and 
garnish  with  crisp  parsley,  or  place  them  on  mashed  potatoes.  Aspar- 
agus, spinach  or  peas  are  the  favorite  accompaniments  to  lamb  chops. 

LAMB  STEWED  WITH  GREEN  PEAS. 

Cut  the  scrag  or  breast  of  lamb  in  pieces  and  put  into  a  stew  pan 
with  just  enough  water  to  cover  it.  Cover  it  closely  and  let  it  stew  for 
twenty  minutes.  Take  off  the  scum  ;  add  a  tablespoon ful  of  salt  and  a 
quart  of  shelled  peas ;  cover  and  let  them  stew  lor  half  an  hour  ;  mix  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  butter  and  stir  in  and  let  it  simmer  ten  nisn- 
utes  ;  then  serve.  If  you  mix  the  flour  with  cream  it  makes  it  better. 
Veal  is  nice  cooked  in  the  same  way,  with  half  a  dozen  small  new  pota- 
toes added  with  the  peas.  . 

ROAST    FOREQUARTER  OF  LAMB. 

To  obtain  the  flavor  of  lamb  in  perfection,  it  should  not  be  long 
kept ;  time  to  cool  is  all  that  it  requires,  and  though  the  meat  may  be 
somewhat  thready,  the  juices  and  flavor  will  be  infinitely  superior  to 
that  of  lamb  that  has  been  killed  two  or  three  days  ;  have  a  brisk  fire 
when  the  joint  is  put  down  ;  baste  it  constantly  until  the  moment  of 
serving.  Lamb  should  be  thoroughly  done  without  being  dried  up, 
and  not  the  slightest  appearance  of  red  gravy  should  be  visible  as  in 
roast  mutton  ;  this  rule  is  applicable  to  all  young  roast  white  meats  ; 
serve  with  a  little  gravy  made  in  the  dripping  pan  and  send  it  to 
table  with  a  tureen  of  mint  sauce,  a  fresh  salad,  a  cut  lemon,  a  small 


MUTTON.  529 

piece  of  butter  and  a  little  cayenne ;  this  should  also  be  placed  on  the 
table  so  that  when  the  carver  separates  the  shoulder  from  the  ribs 
they  may  be  ready  for  his  use. 

BOILED  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

Soak  in  cold  water  two  hours,  and  boil  in  a  cloth.  Serve  with  caper 
sauce,  mashed  turnips,  greens  and  carrots  ;  or,  for  a  small  family, 
two  dressings  may  be  made  thus :  Cut  off  a  little  fillet,  as  of  veal,  and 
stuff,  or  roast  without  dressing.  The  knuckles  may  be  stewed  with 
rice  or  barley  for  broth. 

MUTTON  KIDNEYS. 

With  a  very  sharp  knife  cut  mutton  kidneys  in  the  thinnest  possible 
slices ;  flour,  and  fry  quickly  until  they  are  crisp  ;  while  frying  add  pep- 
per and  salt ;  dip  them  in  a  good  gravy,  to  which  a  bit  of  garlic  will 
give  a  very  slight  flavor. 

MUTTON  KEBBOBED. 

Take  a  loin  of  mutton  ;  joint  well  ;  take  the  following  dressing  and 
put  between  each  joint :  Two  tablespoonfuls  chopped  parsley,  a  little 
thyme,  a  nutmeg  grated,  a  teacup  of  bread  crumbs ;  mix  well  with  two 
eggs  ;  roast  one  hour.  If  there  is  a  large  flap  to  the  loin,  some  of  the 
dressing  may  be  put  in  and  then  skewered  securely. 

MUTTON  STEAKS  WITH  FRENCH  BEANS. 

Having  dressed  French  beans  as  usual,  drain  the  water  from  them, 
and  simmer  them  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  good  piece  of  butter.  A 
few  minutes  before  serving,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  shake 
the  pan  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  them  boil.  In  the  meantime  have 
some  mutton  steaks  neatly  trimmed,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt  and  a 
few  crumbs,  nicely  boiled  or  fried,  and  serve  them  on  the  French  beans. 

FRIED   LIVER. 

Pour  boiling  hot  water  over  it  and  slice  thin.  Season  well  with  pep- 
per and  salt  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  ;  rub  cold  butter  on  it  and  serve 
hot,  with  small  slices  of  fat  bacon. 

Bits  of  the  liver  may  be  trimmed  off,  floured,  and  lightly  fried,  with  a 
sliced  onion,  and  stewed  down  for  gravy  in  water,  with  the  addition  of 
savo:  V  herbs,  salt  and  pepper. 

A  good  way  is  to  steep  it  in  vinegar  and  water  for  half  an  hour,  then 
cut  into  thin  slices,  roll  in  flour,  fry  very  crisp,  and  serve  with  fried 
onions. 

LIVER  FRIED  AS  CUTLETS. 

One  ^%g  to  one  pound  of  liver ;  have  the  liver  cut  thin  ;  scald  ;  wipe 
dry  with  a  towel;  beat  up  the  ^Z%\  dip  the  liver  in  the  t%%,  then  into 
34 


530  ^-EA  TS. 

powdered  cracker  ;  fry  brown.     This  is  very  nice  ;  serve  with  tomatoes, 
if  preferred. 

LIVER  FRIED  WITH  BACON. 

Cut  the  liver  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick ;  melt  two  ounces  of 
nice  clear  dripping  in  a  frying  pan  ;  dredge  the  sliced  liver  with  flour, 
and  fry  it  over  a  pretty  quick  fire  ;  then  fry  rashers  of  bacon  ;  lay  the 
liver  in  a  hot  dish  and  the  bacon  upon  it ;  fry  and  place  around  it,  if 
liked,  onions  shred  fine  and  nicely  browned,  or  garnish  with  crisp  pars- 
ley and  sliced  lemon,  or  serve  with  melted  butter,  or  pour  over  the  liver 
and  bacon  a  sauce  made  of  butter  and  flour. 

ITALIAN  FRIED  LIVER. 

Cut  the  liver  in  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  put  on  a  fry  pan, 
with  a  little  butter,  and  fry  the  liver  one  minute  on  each  side,  or 
just  long  enough  to  glaze  it  so  as  to  retain  the  juices  ;  then  take  a  can 
of  tomatoes,  and  when  it  has  come  to  a  boil  put  on  the  meat  with  the 
tomatoes  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Serve  hot,  either  alone  or  with 
macaroni. 

SWEDISH  FRIED  LIVER. 

Cut  the  liver  in  slices  about  two-thirds  of  an  inch  thick ;  soak  in  cold 
water  about  quarter  of  an  hour  ;  have  ready  some  butter  in  the  spider  ; 
when  hot  put  in  the  liver ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  an  onion 
chopped  fine  ;  dust  a  little  flour  over  the  top ;  cover  tight  to  keep  the 
steam  in  as  much  as  possible  ;  add  a  little  water  while  cooking,  to  keep 
from  getting  dry  (do  not  let  it  burn)  ;  when  brown  turn  on  the  other 
side ;  put  on  a  little  more  salt,  pepper  and  flour ;  when  done  take  the 
liver  out  on  a  platter,  and  put  in  about  a  teacup  of  sweet  milk  ;  if  not 
thick  enough,  add  a  little  more  flour,  wet  with  milk,  until  you  get  it 
about  the  thickness  of  beef  gravy  ;  pour  over  the  liver  and  serve. 

MOCK  DUCK. 

Take  a  round  of  beefsteak ;  salt  and  pepper  ;  prepare  a  dressing  as 
for  turkey ;  lay  in  the  steak  ;  sew  up  ;  lay  two  or  three  slices  of  fat  pork 
upon  it  and  roast ;  baste  often  and  you  cannot  tell  it  from  duck. 

MEAT  LOAF. 

Chop  fine  whatever  cold  meat  you  may  have,  fat  and  lean  together ; 
add  pepper  and  salt,  one  finely-chopped  onion,  two  slices  of  bread, 
which  have  been  soaked  in  milk,  and  one  t.'g'g.  Mix  well  together  and 
bake  in  a  dish.     This  makes  a  nice  tea  or  breakfast  dish. 

MOCK  PATE  DE  FOIE  GRAS. 

Boil  a  calf's  liver  in  slightly  salted  water  till  tender,  boiling  the 
tongue  in  another  vessel  the  day  before  needed.     Cut  the  liver  in  small 


RUAST  PIG.  531 

pieces  and  rub  gradually  to  a  paste,  moistening  with  melted  butter. 
Work  into  the  soft  paste  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper, 
half  a  grated  nutmeg,  some  ground  cloves  and  mace,  a  teaspoonful  each 
of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  made  French  mustard,  salt  to  taste  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  boiling  water  in  which  a  large  onion  has  been  steeped. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  pack  in  jelly  pots  very  hard,  inserting  here  and 
there  bits  of  the  tongue  ;  cover  with  melted  butter  and  fasten  the  lids. 

ROAST  PIG. 

A  month  old  pig,  if  well-grown  and  plump,  is  best  for  this  pur- 
pose. For  dressing,  take  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  an  onion,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  powdered  sage,  three  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  a  salt 
spoonful  of  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  well-beaten  eggs. 
Mix  all  these  ingredients,  except  the  eggs,  together,  incorporatmg  them 
well  ;  moisten  with  half  a  cup  of  warm  water  or  milk  ;  beat  in  the  eggs 
and  stuff  the  pig  into  his  natural  size  and  shape.  Sew  it  up  and  bind 
the  fore  feet  backward,  the  hind  feet  forward  and  close  to  the  body  and 
skewer  them  into  the  proper  position  ;  dry  it  well  and  dredge  with 
flour.  Put  it  to  roast  with  a  little  hot  water,  slightly  salted,  in  the  drip- 
ping pan ;  baste  with  butter  and  water  three  times,  as  the  pig  generally 
warms  afterward  with  the  dripping.  When  it  begins  to  steam  rub  it 
over  every  five  minutes  or  so  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  melted  butter.  Do 
not  omit  this  precaution  if  you  would  have  the  skin  tender  and  soft 
after  it  begins  to  brown.  A  month-old  pig  will  require  about  an  hour 
and  three-quarters  or  two  hours,  and  sometimes  longer,  to  roast  if  the 
fire  be  brisk  and  steady. 

ENGLISH  WAY  OF  ROASTING  PIG. 

Put  some  sage,  a  large  piece  of  saltish  bread,  salt  and  pepper  in  the 
inside,  and  sew  it  up.  Observe  to  skewer  the  legs  back,  or  the  under 
part  will  not  crisp.  Lay  it  to  a  brisk  fire  till  thoroughly  dry ;  then  have 
ready  some  butter  in  a  dry  cloth  and  rub  the  pig  with  it  in  every  part. 
Dredge  as  much  flour  over  as  will  possibly  lie,  and  do  not  touch  it 
again  till  ready  to  serve  ;  then  scrape  off  the  flour  very  carefully  with 
a  blunt  knife,  rub  the  pig  well  with  a  buttered  cloth,  and  fake  off  the 
head  while  at  the  fire ;  take  out  the  brains  and  mix  them  with  the  gravy 
that  comes  from  the  pig.  Then  take  it  up  and  cut  it  down  the  back 
and  breast,  lay  it  into  the  dish  and  chop  the  sage  and  bread  quickly  as 
fine  as  you  can,  and  mix  them  with  a  large  quantity  of  fine  melted  but- 
ter that  has  very  Httle  flour.  Put  the  sauce  into  the  dish  after  the  pig 
has  been  split  down  the  back  and  garnished  with  the  ears  and  the  two 
jaws  ;  take  off  the  upper  part  of  the  head  down  to  the  snout.  In  Devon- 
shire it  is  served  whole  if  very  small,  the  head  only  being  cut  off  to 
garnish  with  as  above. 


532  MEATS. 

ROAST  GRISKIN  OF  PORK. 

As  this  joint  frequently  comes  to  the  table  hard  and  dry,  particular 
care  should  be  taken  that  it  is  well  basted  ;  put  it  down  before  a  bright 
tire,  and  flour  it;  roast  it  in  the  usual  manner;  about  ten  minutes  before 
taking  it  up,  sprinkle  over  some  powdered  sage  ;  make  a  little  gravy  in 
the  drippmg  pan  ;  strain  it  over  the  meat  and  serve  it  with  a  tureen  of 
apple  sauce.  This  joint  will  be  done  in  much  less  time  when  the 
5kin  is  left  on,  consequently  should  have  the  greatest  attention  that  it 
be  not  dried  up.     A  spare-rib  of  pork  can  be  roasted  in  the  same  way. 

PORK  CHOPS. 

Take  care  that  they  are  trimmed  very  neatly ;  they  should  be  about 
half  an  inch  thick ;  put  a  frying  pan  on  the  fire  with  a  bit  of  butter ;  as 
soon  as  it  is  hot  put  in  your  chops,  turning  them  often  till  brown  all 
over  and  done  ;  take  one  upon  a  plate  and  try  it ;  if  done  season  it  with 
a  little  finely  minced  onion,  powdered  sage  and  pepper  and  salt. 

FORCE  MEAT. 

Fry  together  two  ounces  of  sweet  drippings  or  butter,  half  an  ounce 
of  chopped  parsley,  and  about  four  ounces  of  chopped  onion ;  season 
with  one  level  tablespoonful  each  of  powdered  sage,  thyme  and  salt, 
and  a  level  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Soak  half  a  pound  of  dry  bread  in 
tepid  water  for  five  minutes,  then  wring  it  dry  in  a  towel ;  add  it  to  the 
onion  and  herbs  ;  stir  it  until  it  is  scalding  hot,  add  the  fried  liver,  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  half  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  or  water,  and  use  as 
a  dressing  for  poultry  or  pork. 

PORK  SPARE-RIB. 

Joint  it  nicely  before  roasting,  and  crack  the  ribs  across.  Take  care 
not  to  have  the  fire  too  hot.  It  should  be  basted  with  a  little  butter 
and  flour,  and  sprinkled  with  fine  sage.  It  takes  from  two  to  three 
hours  to  cook,  as  pork  should  never  be  underdone.  Apple  sauce, 
mashed  potatoes  and  greens  are  proper  accompaniments. 

SALT  PORK  FRIED  IN  BATTER. 

Have  ready  some  freshened  slices  of  salt  pork.  Take  four  eggs, 
three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  a  cup  of  milk,  a  little  salt ; 
beat  well  together  and  turn  over  the  meat  in  a  frying  pan  and  cook  all 
to  a  nice  brown. 

BOILED  PIG'S  FEET. 

Take  the  fore  feet,  cut  off  the  hock,  clean  and  scrape  them  well ; 
place  two  feet  together  and  roll  them  up  tightly  in  common  muslin ;  tie 
or  sew  them  so  they  will  keep  in  perfect  shape,  and  boil  them  seven 


POTTED  BEEF,  633 

hours  on  a  moderate  fire — they  will  then  be  very  soft ;  lift  them  out 
carefully  and  let  them  cool  off ;  then  remove  the  muslin  and  you  will 
find  them  like  jelly.  Serve  with  vinegar  or  split  them  and  roll  in  bread 
crumbs  or  cracker  dust,  and  fry  or  broil  them.  Serve  with  a  little  tart 
sauce. 

PIG'S  FOOT  CHEESE. 

Boil  the  hocks  and  feet  of  equal  quantity  loose  in  a  pot  till  the  meat 
will  fall  freely  from  the  bones  ;  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt ;  put 
into  a  pan  while  hot  and  press  it ;  cut  in  slices  and  serve  with  vinegar 
or  Worcester  sauce.  Both  of  the  above  are  great  delicacies  if  properly 
cooked.     . 

POTTED  PIEAD. 

Take  the  half  of  a  bullock's  head  and  clean  it;  soak  it  in  warm 
water  ;  also  a  cow  heel ;  let  them  stay  in  the  water  three  hours,  then 
boil  them  until  tender.  When  done  cut  them  in  small  pieces  and  lay 
them  aside ;  'then  strain  the  liquor  in  which  they  have  been  boiled  ;  let 
stand  until  cold,  so  that  the  fat  may  be  easily  skimmed  off;  put  the 
whole  into  a  saucepan  ;  boil  for  half  an  hour ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Pour  it  into  a  mold,  or  whatever  dish  is  convenient ;  put 
it  in  a  cool  place.     When  cold  it  will  form  a  jeHy,  and  is  ready  for 


POTTED  BEEF. 

Take  four  pounds  of  good  lean  beef;  cut  it  up  well  and  pour  over  it 
a  dessertspoonful  of  saltpetre,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar.  Let  this  pickle  remain  on  the  meat  for  twenty-four  hours. 
Now  put  the  meat  in  a  jar,  cover  the  top  with  suet  off  the  meat,  cover 
it  closely,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  three  or  more  hours  ;  pour 
off  the  gravy,  which  may  serve  for  many  purposes ;  take  the  meat  and 
pound  it  well  in  a  mortar  ;  then  add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter,  a  little  cayenne  or  other  pepper  ^ot  too  much) ;  taste  and  see  if 
there  is  sufficient  salt.  Wait  until  it  is  quite  cold  before  pressing  it  into 
pots.     Cover  it  over  with  melted  suet. 

ENGLISH  PICKLE  FOR  TONGUE. 

For  two  tongues,  make  a  brine  of  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  half  pound 
of  brown  sugar,  one  pint  of  barrel  salt,  one  teacup  of  molasses,  water 
enough  to  cover  them.  Let  them  stand  in  a  crock,  well  kept  under  the 
brine,  for  ten  days.  When  ready  to  use,  boil  two  or  three  hours;  skin 
and  eat  cold.  This  brine  can  be  used  as  long  as  it  keeps  sweet,  and  is 
good  to  keep  hams  or  dried  beef  in. 


63i  MEATS. 

BOILED  TONGUE. 

Soak  for  two  hours  and  run  a  skewer  through  the  root  of  the  tongues  ; 
tie  a  string  round  the  point  of  the  skewer  and  fasten  it  at  the  other 
end,  to  give  the  tongue  the  form  of  an  arch.  Boil  for  about  three  hours  ; 
when  done  immerse  in  cold  water  and  pull  off  the  outer  skin.  Truss 
the  tongue  afresh,  in  the  form  of  an  arch,  put  it  to  press,  sideways, 
between  two  dishes  with  a  weight  on  the  top,  and  when  cold  trim  it 
smooth  ;  or  with  a  small,  sharp  knife  carve  the  surface  so  as  to  repre- 
sent leaves.     If  hot  serve  with  spmach  ;  if  cold  garnish  v/ith  veal  jellies. 

PICKLED  TONGUE. 

The  remains  of  pickled  tongues  are  very  nice  intermixed  and  placed 
in  a  pan  and  pressed,  when  they  will  turn  out  resembling  collared  meat. 
A  little  thick  jelly  may  be  poured  into  the  pan  with  them.  Slices  of 
cold  tongue  may  be  warmed  into  any  kind  of  savory  sauce  and  laid  in  a 
pile  in  the  center  of  a  dish,  the  sauce  being  poured  over  them. 

TO  BOIL  PICKLED  BEEF. 

Put  on  the  fire  in  cold  water ;  let  it  simmer  slowly,  allowing  fifteen 
minutes  for  every  pound  ;  do  not  let  it  boil ;  keep  skimming  or  it  will 
look  dirty ;  if  it  is  left  in  the  pot  until  the  water  is  cold  it  will  be  much 
more  tender. 

RESTAURANT  SNAPPER. 

Put  the  snapper  in  boiling  water  about  one  minute  ;  then  lift  out, 
take  the  skin  and  shell  off  and  clean  perfectly;  then  put  in  a  pot 
with  water  sufficient  to  cover  and  boil  until  tender — salted,  of  course, 
to  suit  the  taste ;  take  out  the  snapper  and  leave  the  liquor  on  to  boil. 
Mix  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  of  flour  until  smooth,  season 
with  mace,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  put  in  the  pot  and  let  it  come  to  a 
boil,  put  in  the  snapper  and  leave  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  more  or  less 
flour,  as  you  Uke  it  thick  or  thin,  and  some  prefer  a  little  wine. 

SPICED  BEEF. 

For  ten  or  twelve  pounds  of  beef  take  one  tablespoonful  of  allspice, 
six  cloves,  a  piece  of  mace ;  pound  in  a  mortar,  add  a  large  spoonful  of 
brown  sugar ;  rub  well  into  the  beef ;  then  rub  with  saltpetre  and  salt ; 
turn  and  rub  daily  for  ten  days  ;  then  boil  six  hours. 

FRIED  SWEETBREADS. 

Wash  very  carefully  and  dry  with  a  linen  cloth.  Lard,  with  narrow 
strips  of  fat  salt  pork  set  closely  together.  Lay  the  sweetbreads  in  a 
clean,  hot  frying-pan,  which  has  been  well  buttered,  and  cook  to  a 
fine  brown,  turning  frequently  until  the  pork  is  crisp. 


SWRET  BREADS  AND  SAUSAGES,  635 


SWEETBREADS  BROILED. 

Parboil,  rub  them  well  with  butter,  and  broil  on  a  clean  gridiron; 
turn  frequently,  and  now  and  then  roll  over  on  a  plate  containing  some 
hot  melted  butter.  This  will  prevent  them  from  getting  too  dry  and 
hard.     Season  to  taste  and  serve  very  hot. 

SWEETBREADS   ROASTED. 

Parboil  and  put  into  cold  water  for  fifteen  minutes ;  change  to  more 
cold  water  for  five  minutes  longer ;  wipe  perfectly  dry,  lay  them  in  a 
dripping-pan  and  roast,  basting  with  butter  and  water  until  they  begin 
to  brown ;  then  withdraw  them  for  an  instant,  roll  in  beaten  &gg,  then 
in  cracker  crumbs,  and  return  to  the  fire  for  ten  minutes  longer,  basting 
meanwhile  twice  with  melted  butter.  Keep  hot  in  a  dish  while  you  add 
to  the  dripping  half  a  cup  of  hot  water,  some  chopped  parsley,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  browned  flour  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Pour  over  the 
sweetbreads  and  serve  at  once. 

SEA  PIE. 

Make  a  thick  pudding  crust ;  line  a  dish  with  it ;  put  a  layer  of  sliced 
onions  at  the  bottom,  then  a  layer  of  salt  beef,  cut  in  slices,  with  a  fair 
proportion  of  fat ;  next,  a  layer  of  sliced  potatoes ;  then  a  layer  of  pork 
and  another  of  onions  ;  strew  pepper  over  all ;  cover  with  the  crust  and 
tie  down  tightly  with  a  cloth,  previously  dipped  in  boiling  water  and 
floured.     Boil  for  two  hours  and  serve  in  the  dish. 

SAUSAGES. 

Sausages  are  not  good  unless  they  are  fresh.  Put  a  bit  of  butter  or 
dripping  into  a  frying-pan  ;  before  it  gets  hot  put  in  the  sausage  ;  shake 
the  pan  and  keep  turning  them  over  (be  careful  not  to  break  or  prick 
them  in  so  doing)  ;  fry  them  over  a  slow  fire  till  they  are  nicely  browned 
on  all  sides ';  when  they  are  done  lay  them  on  a  wire  sieve  and  place 
them  before  the  fire  a  couple  of  minutes  to  drain  the  fat  from  them. 
The  secret  of  frying  them  is  to  let  them  get  hot  very  gradually,  then 
they  will  not  burst,  unless  they  are  not  stale. 

VEAL  BALLS. 

Three  and  one-half  pounds  chopped  meat,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
one  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one-half  nutmeg,  five  small  crackers  rolled 
fine,  three  eggs ;  work  well  together  to  make  it  adhere ;  if  the  veal  is 
lean,  add  a  small  lump  of  butter  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cream ;  form 
the  veal  into  a  large  ball  and  spot  over  thickly  with  butter ;  then  strew 
over  it  the  powdered  crackers  (a  small  portion  of  which  should  be  mixed 


536  MEA  TS. 

with  the  other  ingredients) ;  place  it  in  the  oven  and  cook  slowly  for 
two  hours ;  from  time  to  time  add  a  little  water,  that  there  may  be 
gravy. 

VEAL  CUTLETS. 

Slice  cutlets  of  veaCof  equal  size,  with  as  many  slices  of  corned  ham> 
previously  cooked  ;  flatten  ihe  cutlets  with  a  hatchet ;  dip  in  beaten  egg, 
then  m  cracker-dust,  mixed  with  pepper  and  salt  and  minced  parsley,  if 
you  like;  fry  m  drippings ;  drain  and  lay  upon  a  dish,  with  alrernate 
slices  of  the  ham,  broiled,  and  spread  with  a  dressing  of  butter  and  a 
little  French  mustard. 

VEAL  CUTLETS  BREADED. 

Beat  up  an  tgg  and  dip  your  cutlets  into  it,  then  into  fine  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard,  until  thoroughly  done.  Take  them  up  and 
make  a  nice  brown  gravy  and  pour  over  them.  Garnish  with  parsley 
or  horseradish,  and  serve  very  hot.  The  gravy  is  always  richer  and 
better  if  made  with  cream  or  milk  than  with  water. 

VEAL  CAKES. 

Three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  lean  veal,  half  pound  of  sweet  salt  pork» 
half  lean,  half  fat ;  chop  both  fine,  season  with  a  little  chopped  onion  or 
herbs.  Mix  together  with  a  dust  of  flour ;  season  to  taste  and  form, 
into  cakes  and  fry.     Very  nice. 

VEAL  CURRY 

Cut  part  of  a  breast  of  veal  into  pieces  about  three  inches  long  and 
two  wide ;  fry  them  in  butter  to  a  light  brown,  with  an  onion  chopped 
fine;  while  hot  rub  them  over  well  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  curry 
powder ;  put  into  a  stewpan  and  add  some  good  veal  broth,  pepper,  salt 
and  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  stew  very  slowly  until  the  meat  is  tender. 
If  you  wish  it  acid,  lemon  juice  or  the  liquor  of  Indian  pickles  may  be 
used.  Fish,  trout  and  all  kinds  of  flesh  are  occasionally  made  into 
curries. 

VEAL  HASH. 

Chop  very  fine,  add  a  lump  of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut,  salt  and 
pepper  to  your  taste,  a  cup  of  cream  or  good  milk ;  dust  in  flour  enoug^h 
to  thicken  the  gravy  sufliciently.  and  pour  hot  over  some  nicely  toasted 
and  buttered  bread.     An  excellent  breakfast  dish. 

VEAL  LOAF. 
Three  pounds  raw  veal,  one-fourth  pound  raw  salt  pork,  both  chopped 
fine ;  three  Boston  crackers  rolled  fine,  or  bread  crumbs ;  three  eggs. 


MINCED   VEAL.  537 

Season  highly  with  pepper,  sage  and  salt ;  mix  all  well  together  and 
pack  hard  in  a  deep  tin  pan,  cover  with  bits  of  butter  and  sprinkle  fine 
cracker  crumbs  over  the  top ;  cover  with  another  tin.  Bake  nearly  two 
hours ;  uncover  and  brown  the  top.  It  is  very  nice  cold,  cut  in  thin 
slices.     Some  prefer  beef  in  place  of  veal. 

♦ 

MINCED  VEAL. 

Cut  cold  veal  as  fine  as  possible,  but  do  not  chop  it ;  add  to  it  a 
very  little  lemon-peel  shred,  nutmeg,  some  salt,  and  four  or  five 
spoonfuls  of  either  a  little  weak  broth,  milk  or  water;  simmer  these 
gently  with  the  meat,  but  take  care  not  to  let  it  boil ;  add  a  bit  of  butter 
rubbed  in  flour ;  put  pieces  of  bread,  cut  thin  and  toasted,  cut  in  three- 
cornered  shape,  round  the  dish.  Fried  crumbs  of  bread  lightly  strewed 
over,  or  served  in  little  heaps  on  the  meat,  are  an  improvement  to  the 
looks  and  flavor;  a  little  shred  of  shallot  may  occasionally  be  added. 

VEAL  PIGEON. 

Spread  a  thin  veal  cutlet  with  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  moistened 
with  a  little  grease  or  melted  butter,  and  seasoned  lightly  with  salt, 
pepper  and  summer  savory;  roll  the  cutlet  up,  tie  it  with  a  fine  cord; 
bake  till  done,  basting  thoroughly,  when  it  is  cold,  remove  the  cord  and 
cut  into  slices. 

VEAL  SAUSAGES. 

Chop  half  a  pound  of  lean  veal  and  fat  bacon  very  fine ;  add  sage, 
salt,  pepper  and  allspice  to  taste  ;  beat  well,  roll  into  balls,  flatten  and 
fry  them. 

VEAL  SCOLLOPS. 

Cut  veal  from  the  leg  or  other  lean  part  into  pieces  the  size  of  an 
oyster.  Have  a  seasoning  of  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  mace  mixed  ;  rub 
some  over  each  piece ;  dip  in  ^%%,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  as 
you  do  oysters. 

STUFFED  VEAL. 

Get  a  piece  of  veal  from  the  breast ;  have  your  butcher  chop  it  open 
to  allow  of  filling-;  put  into  a  saucepan  some  lard,  a  handful  of  shallots 
cut  up  fine,  and  some  stale  bread  previously  soaked  in  water  and 
squeezed  as  free  of  it  as  possible  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  keep  it 
on  the  fire  a  little  while,  and  stir  to  prevent  burning.  When  you 
remove  the  saucepan  from  the  stove  break  into  the  dressing  two  eggs 
and  mix  all  well  together;  then  fill  the  roast  and  put  it  in  the  oven 
Baste  frequently  to  keep  juicy. 


538  MEA  T  AND  FISH  PIES, 

VEAL  PATTIE. 

Take  a  knuckle  of  veal  and  cover  with  water ,  boil  two  hours.  Take 
out  the  meat,  chop  coarsely,  strain  the  liquor ;  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  sage  ;  pour  over  the  meat,  and  let  it  cool  in  a  jelly  mold. 

VENISON  STEAKS. 

Cut  them  from  the  neck,  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  heat  the  grid- 
iron hot  and  grease  the  bars  before  laying  the  steak  on ;  broil  them 
well ;  turn  once,  taking  care  to  save  as  much  gravy  as  possible.  Serve 
hot  with  currant  jelly  on  each  piece. 

VENISON  HAM. 

Trim  the  ham  nicely  and  lard  with  thin  slices  of  bacon,  then  soak  five 
or  six  hours  in  the  following  pickle  :  One-half  cup  of  olive  oil,  salt, 
spices,  thyme,  one  onion  cut  in  slices  and  one  or  two  glasses  of  wine 
(red),  turning  it  occasionally,  then  take  out  and  roast  before  a  bright 
fire,  basting  it  with  its  pickle.  It  will  take  from  one  to  two  hours  to 
cook. 


MEAT  AND   FISH  PIES. 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

Cut  up  the  chicken,  parboil  it,  season  it  in  the  pot,  take  up  the  meat, 
put  in  a  flour  thickening,  and  scald  the  gravy ;  make  the  crust  of  sour 
milk  made  sweet  with  soda  ;  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  or  lard  the  size  of 
an  t.%g  \  cream  is  preferable  to  the  sour  milk,  if  you  have  it.  Take  a 
large  tin  pan,  line  it  with  the  crust,  put  in  the  meat,  and  pour  in  the 
gravy  from  the  pot ;  make  it  nearly  full,  cover  it  over  the  crust,  and  leave 
the  vent ;  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  two  hours,  or  two  and  a  half. 

GAME  PIE. 

To  be  eaten  cold  ;  Bone  partridges,  ducks  or  other  game ;  stuff  with 
forcemeat ;  allow  one  peeled  raw  truffle  to  each  small  bird,  two  or  more 
to  ducks,  etc.  Prepare  the  crust,  place  a  few  slices  of  veal  and  a  thick 
layer  of  forcemeat  on  the  bottom,  lay  in  the  game,  cover  with  thin 
slices  of  bacon,  and  put  on  upper  crust.  Bake  four  hours.  Stew 
the  giblets  with  some  ham,  the  bones,  some  shallots,  a  little  mace, 
thyme  and  parsley,  in  two  quarts  of  stock  until  reduced  to  one  pint  ; 
strain  and  pour  into  the  pie  when  cold.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours 
before  cutting.  It  will  keep  weeks  after  cutting,  if  the  fat  is  not  dis- 
turbed. 


MEAT  AND  FISH  PIES.  539 


HAM  PIE. 

'  Pick  the  ham  into  small  fine  pieces,  boil  a  cup  of  rice,  beat  up  two 
eggs  and  stir  in  with  the  ham  and  rice ;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and 
onions,  put  into  a  deep  pan,  with  crust,  and  bake. 

MEAT  PIE. 

Take  all  the  odds  and  bits  of  meat  left  from  each  meal — the  more 
kinds  the  better,  chop  fine,  line  a  deep  dish  with  rich  crust,  a  layer  of 
meat  with  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  pepper,  a  few  pieces  of  butter  and  a 
little  flour ;  when  filled  turn  in  one  small  cup  of  water ;  cover  with  a 
thick  crust  and  bake  two  hours. 

CHOPPED  MEAT  PIE. 

This  can  be  made  of  uncooked  mutton  or  veal.  Cut  off  two  pounds 
from  the  leg  and  chop  it  finely,  freeing  it  first  from  fat.  and  skin,  and 
adding  a  slice  or  two  of  raw  bacon  or  nice  salt  pork,  also  minced  ;  sea- 
son well  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  teacup 
of  gravy  and  six  ounces  of  butter  ;  cut  up  very  small  three  young  let- 
tuces, add  a  quart  of  young  peas  and  one  onion  chopped  fine.  Stir  all 
these  ingredients  over  a  gentle  fire  until  quite  hot,  then  place  the  sauce- 
pan, closely  covered,  at  the  side  of  the  fire  and  let  it  stew  gently  for 
three  hours.  Many  persons  like  it  served  within  a  wall  of  well-cooked 
rice. 

MUTTON  PIE. 

Two  pounds  of  the  neck  or  loin  of  mutton,  weighed  after  being 
boned ;  two  kidneys,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  two  teacups  of  gravy 
or  water ;  two  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  parsley  ;  when  liked,  a  little 
minced  onion ;  puff  crust.  Bone  the  mutton  and  cut  the  meat  into 
steaks  all  of  the  same  thickness,  leaving  but  very  little  fat ;  cut  up  the 
kidneys,  arrange  them  with  the  meat  neatly  in  a  pie  dish  ;  sprinkle  over 
the  minced  parsley  and  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt ;  pour  in  the 
gravy  and  cover  with  a  good  puff  crust.  Bake  for  an  hour  and  a 
half,  or  rather  longer  should  the  pie  be  very  large,  and  let  the  oven  be 
rather  brisk. 

OYSTER  PIE. 

One  can  of  oysters,  liquor  and  all,  put  in  the  bottom  of  a  pan — a 
small  shallow  milk  pan  is  best.  Put  a  strong  teacup  in  the  middle  of 
the  pan,  bottom  upward  ;  season  the  oysters  with  salt,  pepper  and  small 
lumps  of  butter ;  pour  in  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  hot  water ;  take 
from  four  to  six  hard-boiled  eggs  and  sHce  them  over  the  oysters  ;  make 
a  short  crust,  as  for  biscuit ;  roll  about  an  inch  thick  and  put  over  the 
top  of  the  oysters ;  cut  a  small  slit  over  the  top  of  the  cup  not  large 


640  PASTRY. 

enough  to  let  the  cup  through,  and  bake  till  the  crust  is  done.     There 
is  no  bottom  crust. 

SALMON  PIE. 

Take  a  can  of  Oregon  salmon ;  empty  it  carefully  from  the  can  so  as 
not  to  break  it ;  prepare  a  crust  in  a  high  dish  beforehand  ;  take  a 
spoonful  of  flour,  half  as  much  butter,  and  as  much  ground  mace  as 
will  go  on  a  penknife,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  work  it  well  together ; 
thin  it  with  some  of  the  liquor  from  the  fish,  add  some  chopped  parsley 
to  it,  with  a  few  peppercorns  ;  stew  the  sauce,  stirring  it  so  that  it  shall 
be  smooth ;  when  the  sauce  is  done  put  on  the  fish ;  pour  the  whole 
carefully  into  the  crust ;  bake  for  ten  minutes  until  it  is  hot  enough,  and 
serve.     Sufficient  for  four  or  five  people. 

STEAK  OR  KIDNEY  PIE. 

If  kidney,  split  and  soak  it,  and  season  that  or  the  meat.  Make  a 
paste  with  suet,  flour  and  milk ;  roll,  and  hne  a  basin  with  it ;  put  the 
kidney  or  steaks  in — both  may  be  used — cover  with  paste,  and  pinch 
round  the  edge  ;  cover  with  a  cloth  and  boil  a  considerable  time  ;  if  the 
pudding  is  large  boil  three  hours.  Make  some  gravy  with  bones  or 
gristle.  After  taking  to  the  table,  cut  out  a  small  piece  of  the  crust 
and  pour  in  the  gravy. 

VEAL  PIE. 

Take  two  pounds  of  veal,  one  half-pound  of  bacon,  cut  into  small 
pieces,  boil  in  a  little  water  until  nearly  tender.  Now  roll  the  crust 
(sour  milk  crust  is  good)  ;  lay  a  deep  pie  dish  on  the  crust,  and  cut 
the  size  of  the  dish  ;  put  the  crust  all  round  the  dish,  but  do  not  put 
any  at  the  bottom  ;  place  a  teacup  in  the  middle  and  place  the  meat 
in  layers ;  beat  a  raw  ^gg  up  with  a  little  flour  in  the  gravy ;  add  pep- 
per, salt  and  a  little  catsup ;  pour  half  of  this  over  the  meat,  save  the 
other  to  add  after  the  pile  is  baked  ;  put  the  crust  over  the  pie,  wet  the 
paste  at  the  edge  so  that  the  gravy  may  not  escape ;  bake  a  good  brown ; 
when  the  crust  is  done  the  pie  is  baked. 


PASTRY. 

,    PUFF  PASTE,  PIES  AND   TARTLETS. 

Use  the  best  of  fresh  lard  for  pastry,  or  the  crust  will  be  bitter, 
tough,  and  anything  but  flaky.  The  best  way  to  secure  good  lard  is  to 
take  the  leaf  and  try  out  the  lard,  and  then  you  are  sure  of  having  the 
genuine  article.     Keep  a  board  or  marble  slab  purposely  for  pastry,  and 


PASTRY.  541 

see  that  it  is  never  used  for  any  other  purpose  except  to  mold  bread  or 
pastry  upon.  A  good  way  to  avoid  v^asting  flour  each  time  you  use 
your  kneading  board  is  to  brush  it  carefully  off  the  board  into  a  small 
sieve;  sift  out  the  flour,  it  will  be  good  to  use  again. 

An  economical  pie  crust  is  made  by  allowing  one  cup  of  flour  and  a 
large  spoonful  of  lard  to  each  covered  pie  of  ordinary  size.  Sift  the 
flour  and  take  out  a  handful  for  rolling  out ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  for 
each  pie  ;  put  your  lard  into  the  flour  in  lumps  as  large  as  an  almond, 
but  do  not  rub,  as  every  lump  will  make  it  flaky ;  work  in  as  much  cold 
water  as  wiU  make  a  dough  just  soft  enough  to  roll  easily  ;  handle  as 
little  as  possible  to  form  an  oblong  roll  of  dough,  and  cut  into  as  many 
slices  as  you  need  tops  and  bottoms  ;  lay  the  cut  side  on  the  board  and 
roll  just  large  enough  to  cover  your  platter  neatly  ;  roll  top  crust  Very 
thin  and  bake  well  in  a  quick  oven,  and  you  will  surely  have  good 
pie  crust,  even  in  warm  weather.  For  meat  pies  use  less  shortening 
and  put  in  a  little  yeast  powder ;  roll  top  crust  of  meat  pies  half  an 
inch  thick,  and  line  sides  only  of  the  pan. 

The  real  puff  paste  for  tarts  or  pies  is  made  in  this  way :  Before 
beginning  operations,  select  the  coolest  possible  place  in  which  to  work^ 
use  a  marble  slab,  if  possible,  when  rolling  out  the  paste  for  pies,  and 
work  quickly,  handling  as  little  as  possible.  To  a  pound  of  flour  a 
pound  of  butter  is  generally  supposed  necessary,  but  a  half  a  pound  of 
shortening  to  a  pound  of  flour  is  quite  as  good,  and  much  more  health- 
ful. Again,  if  considered  necessary,  the  shortening  may  be  half  lard  or 
good  dripping,  and  the  other  half  only  butter,  with  half  teaspoonful  of 
salt  added.  Mix  half  the  butter  (or  other  shortening),  with  the  flour  as 
finely  as  possible,  till  it  is  no  coarser  than  oatmeal ;  wet  it  up  with  iced 
water  until  about  the  consistency  of  the  butter  to  be  used ;  then  roll 
out  smooth,  spread  with  some  of  the  remaining  butter,  sprinkle  with 
flour  and  fold  three  times  and  set  away  on  ice,  or  if  in  winter,  in  a  cold 
but  not  freezing  place,  ^for  fifteen  minutes.  Repeat  this  process  three 
times,  then  line  a  pie-pan  with  a  lower  crust,  brown  it  lightly  in  the 
oven  before  putting  in  the  fruit  or  custard,  then  add  the  top  crust 
and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven. 

All  crust  will  be  more  flaky  if  laid  on  ice  a  short  time  before  using. 
Lard  for  pastry  may  be  used  as  hard  as  it  can  be  cut  with  a  knife,  and 
it  will  be  better  than  if  left  stand  to  warm.  It  needs  only  to  be  cut 
through  the  flour,  not  rubbed. 

Pie  crust  without  lard  can  be  made  by  taking  rich  buttermilk,  soda, 
and  a  little  salt,  and  mixing  just  as  soft  as  it  can  be  mixed  and  hold 
together;  have  pknty  of  flour  on  the  molding  board  and  rolling-pin; 
then  make  and  bake  as  other  pies,  or  rather  in  a  slow  oven,  and  when 
the  pie  is  taken  from,  the  oven  do  not  cover  it  up.  In  this  way  a  dyspep- 
tic can  indulge  in  the  luxury  of  a  pie. 


542  PASTRY. 

Pot-pie  crusts  with  baking  powder  are  made  in  this  wise  :  Take  one 
quart  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  piece  of  butter 
as  large  as  a  hen's  ^g%,  well  rubbed  in  the  flour;  mix  just  hard  enough 
to  handle;  use  either  sweet  milk  or  water  to  mix  with;  then,  twenty 
minutes  before  you  take  up  your  dinner,  pull  your  dough  in  pieces 
about  as  large  as  two  hen's  eggs  and  put  in  your  kettle ;  cover  and 
keep  boiling  briskly.  Use  buttermiik  or  sour  milk  for  pot-pie  crust 
when  it  can  be  procured.  These  are  the  proper  proportions :  One 
quart  of  flour,  a  little  piece  of  butter  rubbed  in  the  flour,  salt  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  saleratus  or  soda  dissolved  in  enough  sour  milk  to  make  a 
dough  just  hard  enough  to  handle ;  then,  as  in  the  other  kind,  pull  in 
pieces  and  put  in  your  pie.  Allow  twenty  minutes  to  cook.  Do  not 
raise  the  cover  of  your  kettle  more  than  once  while  it  is  cooking. 
When  making  the  crust  for  a  pot-pie  there  is  danger,  as  eveiy  cook 
knows,  of  the  crust  falling  when  it  is  cooked  in  the  kettle  with  the  meat 
or  chicken.  If  instead  of  doing  this  you  put  the  crust  on  a  plate  and 
steam  it  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  it  will  not  be  heavy.  Be  sure 
to  have  plenty  of  water  in  the  kettle,  so  that  you  will  not  have  to  take, 
the  steamer  off  in  order  to  put  more  in.  Make  the  crust  just  as  you 
do  baking  powder  biscuit.  When  the  meat  is  cooked  and  the  gravy 
made,  drop  the  crust  into  the  gravy  and  leave  it  there  a  minute  or  two. 

In  warm  weather,  if  the  crust  can  not  be  used  immediately  after 
making,  put  in  the  ice-box  until  ready  to  use,  and  roll  always  with  a 
well-floured  rolling-pin.  To  prevent  the  juice  from  soaking  into  the 
under-crust,  beat  an  ^gg  well  and  with  a  soft  cloth  rub  the  crust  before 
filling  the  pies.  In  the  upper  crust  make  air-holes,  or  the  crust  will 
break.  These  are  best  made  with  the  point  of  the  spoon  or  with  a 
pastry-cutter,  and  may  be  drawn  a  little  apart  when  placed  over  the 
pie.  Use  tin  pie-pJates,  as  the  crust  does  not  bake  well  in  earthen  ones, 
and  do  not  fill  with  fruit  until  ready  to  place  in  the  oven.  When  using 
juicy  fruit,  such  as  currants,  gooseberries,  sprinkle  a  little  corn  starch 
and  sugar  over  the  fruit  after  it  is  in  the  pie,  and  immediately  put  on 
the  top  crust  and  bake.  Just  before  putting  on  the  upper  crust  wet  the 
rim  of  the  lower,  with  water,  and  press  the  two  crusts  firmly  together ; 
this  will  prevent  the  pie  bursting.  Bake  pies  in  a  moderate  oven, 
having  the  most  heat  at  the  bottom,  or  the  lower  crust  will  be 
clammy  and  raw.  Remove  fruit  pies  immediately  from  the  tins,  or  the 
crust  will  become  wet  and  ruin  the  pie. 

A  superior  paste  for  mince  pies  or  tarts  is  made  by  rubbing  into  a 
quart  of  the  best  flour  one-third  of  a  pound  of  sweet  lard.  Chop  it  in 
with  a  broad  knife  ;  wet  up  with  ice-water ;  roll  out  very  thin  and 
cover  with  dabs  of  butter,  also  of  the  best :  fold  into  atight  roll ; 
flatten  with  a  few  strokes  of  the  rolling-pin,  and  roll  out  into  a 
sheet  as  thin  as  the  first;  baste  again  with  the  butter ;  roll  up  and 


PIES  AND   TARTLETS.  543 

out  into  a  third  sheet  hardly  thicker  than  drawing  paper ;  a  third  time 
dot  with  butter  and  fold  up  closely,  Having  used  as  much  butter  for 
this  purpose  as  you  have  lard,  set  aside  your  roll  for  an  hour  on  ice,  or 
in  a  very  cold  place ;  then  roll  out,  line  your  pie-plates  with  the  paste, 
fill  with  mince  meat,  put  strips  across  them  in  squares  or  triangles,  and 
bake  in  a  steady  but  nor  dull  heat. 

Sweetened  tart  paste  is  very  nice  for  tartlets,  and  is  much  used  for 
the  delicate  tarts,  as  lemon  or  orange.  For  these,  use  one  pound  each 
of  loaf  sugar,  flour  and  butter ;  mix  thoroughly,  then  beat  well  with  the 
rolling-pin  (without  rolling),  for  half  an  hour,  folding  it  up  and  beating 
it  out  again ;  then  roll  out  the  pieces  in  any  shape  you  wish  for  the 
tarts.  In  rolling  the  crust  use  the  rolling-pin  as  lightly  as  possible,  and 
take  care  that  the  pressure  is  even.  For  fruit  tarts  the  crust  is  baked 
with  the  fruit  in  them,  but  for  jelly  the  crusts  are  baked  first  and  then 
filled  with  the  jelly. 


PIES  AND  TARTLETS. 

APPLE  PIE. 

Take  two  good-sized  apples,  stew  them  and  sweeten  ;  grate  in  the 
rind  of  one  lemon,  and  stir  together  with  the  yolk  of  one  ^gg.  Put  a 
paste  in  the  bottom  only,  and  bake  till  done.  Then  take  the  white  of 
the  tgg  and  beat  it  up  with  sugar  ;  put  on  top  and  put  back  in  oven  a 
few  minutes. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Scald  the  milk  and  let  it  cool.  Grate  some  sweet  apples.  Take  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  four  well-beaten  eggs,  one  cup  of 
milk,  one-fourth  of  a  nutmeg.  Line  an  earthen  pie-di^  with  a  rich 
crust  and  let  it  bake.  Then  fill  with  the  custard  and  let  it  bake  for 
half  an  hour.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

APPLE  POT  PIE. 

Take  good  cooking  apples,  pare  and  core,  slice,  but  not  too  thin  ;  take 
a  deep  dish,  place  a  cup  in  the  middle,  place  the  apples  in  layers,  with 
sugar  and  a  few  cloves,  until  •your  dish  is  full ;  pour  in  a  little  water ; 
cover  with  puff  paste  rolled  to  medium  thickness. 

GREEN  APPLE   PIE. 

Pare,  quarter,  core  and  stew  nice  tart  apples  in  water  enough  to  pre- 
vent them  from  burning.  When  tender,  sweeten  very  sweet  with  white 
sugar;  fill  the  pie  plate,  which  has  been  lined  and  edged  with  puff 
paste;  grate  in  a  little  nutmeg,    cover    and    bake   forty-five   minutes. 


544  PIES  AND  TARTLETS, 

When  the  paste  is  rolled  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick  the  pies  should 
be  baked  one  hour. 

BOILED  CIDER  PIE. 

Take  four  tablespoonfuls  of  boiled  cider,  three  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
sugar  and  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  one  ^gg'y  beat  all 
together.     Bake  in  a  deep  plate  and  with  upper  and  under  crusts. 

BLACKBERRY  PIE. 

Fill  the  dish  not  quite  even  full  and  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
to  each  pie.  Sprinkle  a  little  flour  on  top,  then  put  on  the  top  crust  and 
press  around  the  edge. 

CHERRY  PIE. 

Remove  the  stems  and  stones,  cover  the  tin  with  rich  crust;  fill 
with  cherries  and  add  a  cup  of  sugar,  tablespoonful  flour  and  a  little 
butter  ;  add  top  crust. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

Cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  milk,  four  of  flour,  a  spoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar,  half  a  spoonful  of  salaratus,  four  eggs  and  a  nutmeg. 
Beat  the  butter  light,  then  add  the  sugar  gradually,  beating  until  it  is  a 
cream,  and  then  add  the  eggs  and  milk;  mix  and  stir  in  the  flour,  in 
which  the  salaratus  and  cream  of  tartar  have  been  mixed  ;  bake  fifty 
minutes.  To  make  the  filling,  use  one  square  of  chocolate,  cup  of 
sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  third  of  a  cup  of  boiling  milk  ;  mix  the  scraped 
chocolate  and  sugar  together,  and  then  add,  slowly,  the  milk  and  eggs, 
simmering   about   ten   minutes.     This  must  be  perfectly  cold  before 


*  ELDERBERRY  PIE. 

Use  the  clear  berries  for  a  pie,  and  make  the  same  as  any  berry  pie ; 
season  with  sugar,  a  little  flour  and  butter,  and  always  flavor  with  nut- 
meg. They  are  used  both  dried  and  canned,  with  other  fruit,  such 
as  currants,  cherries  and  grapes  in  making  pies,  or  a  little  vinegar,  if  one 
hasn't  the  other  fruits  and  does  not  like  the  clear  elderberries. 


FRUIT  PIES. 

Take  a  deep  dish,  and  line  with  pastry,  as  for  pie  ;  invert  a  cup  in  the 
dish,  and  fill  in  your  fruit ;  season,  etc,  as  for  any  pie,  and  put  in  plenty 
of  water ;  put  on  an  upper  crust,  and  bake  as  usual.  When  served,  lay 
off  the  crust,  lift  out  the  cup,  and  you  will  have  plenty  of  nice  rich 
juice,  which  the  cup  has  kept  for  you.  Grease  the  top  of  the  cup.  The 
bottom  crust  may  be  baked  first  if  the  fruit  cooks  quickly. 


MINCE  MEA  T  PIE,   .  545 

,  GOOSEBERRY  PIE. 

Take  green  or  ripe  gooseberries.  Put  into  a  tin  or  porcelain  sauce- 
pan with  enough  water  to  prevent  burning,  and  stew  slowly  until  they 
break,  stirring  often.  Sweeten  abundantly  and  set  by  to  cool.  When 
cold,  pour  into  a  pie  dish  lined  with  puff  paste,  cover  with  a  top  crust 
and  bake  in  a  good  oven.  Eat  cold  but  fresh,  with  powdered  sugar 
sifted  over  the  top. 

JELLY  PIE. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  of 
fruit  of  any  kind  or  preserves,  or  jelly  and  fruit  is  very  niced  mixed. 
Bake  in  pastry,  make  a  meringue  of  the  whites,  spread  over  after  the 
pies  are  done  and  set  back  in  the  oven  to  brown.  This  makes  two 
pies. 

MINCE   MEAT. 

Make  the  mince  as  long  as  possible  before  using  it,  and  keep  in  a 
stone  jar  with  a  tight  cover  and  a  bladder  tied  over  the  top.  Take  two 
pounds  lean  fresh  beef,  boiled,  and  when  cold,  chopped  tine  ;  one  pound 
beef  suet,  powdered  ;  five  pounds  of  apples,  pared,  cored  and  chopped  ; 
two  pounds  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped  ;  one  pound  Sultana  raisins, 
washed  and  picked  over ;  two  pounds  of  currants,  washed  and  care- 
fully picked  over  ;  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  citron,  cut  up  fine  ;  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon  ;  one  powdered  nutmeg  ;  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  mace  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  and  the  same  each  of  allspice 
and  fine  salt ;  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  brown  sugar  ;  one  quart  of 
boiled  cider,  and  one  pint  of  pickled  blackberries.  Bake  the  pies  one 
day  before  using,  and  then  warm  them  slightly  before  serving. 

ENGLISH  MINCE  MEAT. 

Of  scraped  beef  or  tongue  (cooked,  and  free  from  skin  and  strings), 
weigh  two  pounds,  four  pounds  of  suet,  picked  and  chopped  ;  then  dry 
six  pounds  of  currants,  rub  them  in  a  cloth  first,  to  clean  them,  raisins, 
stoned  and  chopped,  two  pounds,  three  pounds  of  apples,  the  peel  and 
juice  of  two  lemons,  one  nutmeg,  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves,  ditto 
mace,  ditto  pimento,  in  finest  powder,  and  one  wineglass  of  brandy  and 
one  of  wine  ;  put  the  whole  into  a  deep  jar,  and  keep  coveied,  in  a  dry, 
cool  place.  Half  the  quantity  is  enough,  unless  for  a  very  large  family. 
Have  citron,  orange  and  lemon  peel  ready,  and  put  some  of  each  in  the 
pies  when  made.     English  mince  pies  are  made  in  tin  pattypans. 

IMPERIAL  MINCE  MEAT. 

Chop  fine  two  pounds  of  lean,  tender  beef,  cold,  boiled  or  baked  ; 
remove  all  skin  and  gristle.     Mince  fine  half  a  pound  of  suet,  one  pound 
35 


546  PIES  AND  TARTLETS. 

of  raisins,  seeded,  one  pound  of  dried  currants,  washed  and  picked,  half 
a  pound  of  citron,  sliced  thin,  one  pound  of  clean,  moist  brown  sugar'^ 
the  juice  of  six  lemons,  the  rinds  grated  (throw  away  the  pulp),  two 
grated  nutmegs,  one  ounce  of  salt,  one  ounce  of  ground  ginger,  half  an 
ounce  of  allspice,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  each  ;  mix  the  meat,  fruit  and 
spices  well  ;  pour  upon  the  sugar  a  pint  of  wine  and  half  a  pint  of 
brandy ;  add  the  fruit  to  the  meat ;  pour  over  the  wine  and  brandy ; 
when  it  is  well  mixed  pack  it  in  small  jars  in  a  cool  place. 

When  ready  to  make  the  pies  line  the  pie  plates  with  a  good  crust ; 
add  to  a  pint  of  the  mixture  a  pint  of  tart  apples,  chopped,,  and  a  wine- 
glass of  rose  water  ;  fill  the  crust  half  full  ;  lay  over  bits  of  butter ;  put 
in  enough  meat  to  nearly  fill  the  plate  ;  cover  with  puff  paste  ;  cut  a  sHt 
in  the  middle  and  bake.     These  keep  well.     Warm  them  before  using. 

MOCK  MINCE  MEAT. 

Of  the  best  apples,  six  pounds,  pared,  cored  and  minced  ;  of  fresh 
suet  and  raisins,  stoned,  each  three  pounds,  likewise  minced ;  to  these 
add  of  mace  and  cinnamon  one-quarter  ounce  of  each,  eight  cloves  in 
finest  powder,  three  pounds  of  finest  powdered  sugar,  juice  of  two 
lemons,  half  a  pint  of  port  wine,  rinds  of  four  lemons.  Boiled  cider  is 
good  to  give  flavor  to  mince  pies  in  place  of  liquor. 

SPRING  MINCE  PIES. 

A  cup  and  a  half  of  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
molasses,  one  cup  of  warm  water,  half  a  cup  of  vinegar  or  good  boiled 
cider,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  five  crackers,  pounded  fine  ;  stir  all  together 
and  season  with  spices  as  other  mince  pies  ;  bake  with  rich  crust.  For 
the  top  crust,  roll  thin,  cut  in  narrow  strips,  and  twist  and  lay  across. 

ORANGE  PIE. 

Cream,  one  ounce  butter  and  stir  in  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  two 
oranges,  the  juice  and  soft  pulp  of  three  oranges  and  half  pint  of  sugar, 
four  and  one-half  even  tablespoonfuls  of  pounded  and  sifted  crackers, 
four  well-beaten  eggs  and  one-half  pint  of  rich  milk  or  cream  ;  mix  well 
and  bake  in  deep  plates  lined  with  paste.  To  make  it  still  richer,  use 
half  pound  sugar,  quarter  pound  butter,  six  eggs  (the  whites  beaten 
separately  to  a  stiff  froth),  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  large 
oranges  and  one  pint  cream.  These  can  be  baked  in  any  pie-plate 
without  an  upper  crust. 

PEACH  MERINGUE. 

Stew  and  sweeten  ripe,  juicy  peaches  after  paring  and  slicing  thern  ; 
mash  smooth  and  season  with  nutmeg  and  stewed  lemon  peel.     Fill 


PEACH  AND  PINEAPPLE  PIES.  547 

the  crust  and  bake  until  just  done ;  spread  when  cold  with  meringue 
flavored  with  vanilla  or  rose-water.    Eat  cold. 

PEACH   POT-PIE. 

Line  a  deep  dish  with  cream  crust ;  pare  nice  ripe  peaches,  leaving" 
them  whole,  and  till  the  dish.  Then  take  a  pint  of  cream  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  stir  well  together ;  pour  this  over  the 
peaches  ;  dredge  on  a  little  flour  ;  put  on  a  top  crust  and  pinch  down 
well  to  keep  the  juice  from  escaping.  Bake  thoroughly,  that  the 
peaches  may  be  well  cooked. 

PAN  PIE. 

Line  a  deep  tin  with  pie-crust ;  fill  with  the  best  tart  apples  ;  cut  thin 
slices  of  pork  and  lay  over  the  top  ;  sweeten  with  half  brown  sugar  and 
the  best  molasses  ;  a  little  salt  and  a  sprinkle  of  allspice  ;  bake  three 
hours  in  a  slow  oven. 

PEACH  COBBLERS. 

Take  a  quart  and  a  half  of  flour,  pinch  of  salt,  cup  of  lard,  cold  water 
sufficient  to  wet  the  dough  (but  not  soft;  pare  the  peaches,  but  not 
stone  them,  line  the  pudding  pan  in  bottom  and  sides  with  the  crust, 
place  a  layer  of  peaches,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  plenty  of  sugar,  dredge 
a  little  flour,  then  place  a  thin  layer  of  crust  over  that,  a  layer  of  fruit, 
sugar,  butter  and  flour  as  before,  and  a  tolerable  thick  crust  for  the 
top,  make  an  opening  in  center  and  pour  nearly  a  pint  of  cold  water  in. 
Bake  from  two  to  three  hours. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE. 

One  can  of  pineapple,  cut  fine  ;  two  cups  of  sugar ;  two  cups  of 
sweet  milk,  four  eggs  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Beat  the  eggs 
a  few  minutes,  stir  in  the  butter,  sugar  and  milk,  add  the  pineapple  and 
juice  lastly,  and  bake  immediately  in  a  moderate  oven,  in  a  rich  paste. 
This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  two  pies. 

SWEET   POTATO  PIE. 

To  one  pound  of  potatoes,  baked  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  add  a 
half  pound  of  butter,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  pint  of 
milk  and  six  eggs  ;  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  and  beat  the  whole 
together  thoroughly.     Bake  with  one  crust.     This  will  make  three  pies. 

SOUTHERN  SWEET   POTATO  PIE. 

One  pound  each  of  sweet  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed,  eggs  and 
white  sugar  ;  sufficient  sweet  cream  or  milk  to  make  it  a  thin  batter  the 
consistence  of  pound  cake  ;  flavor  with  nutmeg  and  cinnamon;  extract 


548  PIES  AND  TARTLETS. 

of  lemon  or  pineapple  may  be  added.     Bake  in  a  light  puff  paste  with- 
out a  -top.     Beat  the  eggs  separately  as  for  pound  cake. 

Puff  paste  for  above :  In  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sifted  flour  rub 
with  the  hand  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter ;  mix  with  half  a  pint  of 
spring  (pure)  water ;  knead  well  and  set  it  aside  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  or  while  you  are  preparing  the  potatoes  :  then  roll  out  thin, 
spread  it  with  butter,  sprinkle  flour  over  it,  double  in  folds  and  roll 
again ;  repeat  this  three  or  four  times  and  let  it  set  an  hour  in  a  cold 
place.  This  paste,  made  of  salt  butter,  with  the  addition  of  three  eggs 
beaten  together,  makes  a  delicious  paste  for  meat  or  savory  pies. 

SWEET  PRUNE  PIES. 

Take  a  pound  of  prunes  and  soak  them  over  night,  so  that  the  stones 
will  slip  out  easily ;  stew  in  water  with  as  many  raisins  as  desired, 
and  sweeten ;  use  less  water  than  for  sauce ;  when  both  are  soft  grate 
in  the  rind  of  two  lemons  and  fill  the  pie,  allowing  two  crusts. 

TART  PRUNE   PIES. 

Two  cups  French  prunes  steeped  in  water  over  night,  one  cup  sugar, 
one  teaspoonful  extract  lemon,  two  tablespoonfuls  boiled  cider,  oner 
third  cup  water  ;  wet  the  edges  of  the  paste  with  milk ;  bake  twenty- 
five  minutes  in  rather  hot  oven. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 

Halve  the  pumpkin ;  take  out  the  seeds ;  rinse  the  pumpkin  and  cut 
it  into  small  strips ;  stew  them  over  a  moderate  fire,  in  just  sufficient 
water  to  prevent  their  burning  to  the  bottom  of  the  pot.  When  stewed 
soft,  turn  off  the  water  and  let  the  pumpkm  steam  over  a  slow  fire  for 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn.  Take  it 
from  the  fire  and  strain  it,  when  cold,  through  a  sieve.  If  you  wish  to 
have  pies  very  rich,  add  to  a  quart  of  the  stewed  pumpkin  two  quarts  of 
milk  and  twelve  eggs.  If  you  like  them  plain,  add  to  a  quart  of  the 
pumpkin  one  quart  of  milk  and  three  eggs.  The  thicker  the  pies  are  of 
the  pumpkin  the  less  will  be  the  number  of  eggs  required  for  them. 
One  ^gg,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  will  answer  for  a  quart  of  the 
pumpkin — if  very  little  milk  is  used.  Sweeten  the  pumpkin  with  sugar 
and  very  little  molasses  ;  the  sugar  and  eggs  should  be  beaten  together. 
Ginger,  grated  lemon  rind  or  nutmeg  is  good  spice  for  the  pies.  Pump- 
kin requires  a  very  hot  oven. 

RAISIN  PIE. 

One  cup  of  raisins,  chopped  fine,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup 
of  vinegar,  one  cup  of  syrup,  one  cup  of  water,  one-half  cup  of   flour, 


APPLE  AND  BANANA   TARTS.  549 

one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  the  same  of  cinnamon  and  soda,  butter  size 
of  an  Qgg  ;  two  crusts. 

RAISIN  TURNOVERS. 

One-fourth  pound  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  one  cracker,  rolled 
fine,  one  egg,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  lemon  and  nearly  a  cup  of  sugar. 
If  used  for  pie  use  top  crust. 

SQUASH  PIES. 

Cut  the  squash  in  pieces  and  steam  or  boil  until  thoroughly  done. 
Then  remove  from  the  shell  and  mash  fine.  To  one  quart  of  stewed 
and  sifted  squash  add  one  quart  of  milk,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  spice  to  taste. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PIE. 

Line  a  tin  with  puiT  paste  and  thinly  sliced  tomatoes,  good  handful  of 
sugar,  a  little  citric  acid,  and  sprinkle  well  with  flour ;  cover  with  top 
crust  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

TARTLETS. 

Fill  some  deep  tart  tins  with  good  paste  and  fill  with  canned  or 
preserved  plums  or  currants ;  sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar  and  bake. 

TART  SHELLS. 

Roll  out  thin  a  nice  puff  paste,  cut  out  with  a  glass  or  biscuit  cutter, 
then  with  a  smaller  dish  cut  out  the  center,  lay  this  ring  on  a  large  one, 
wet  both  edges  with  a  little  water  and  bake  immediately,  or  shells  may 
be  made  by  lining  pattypans  with  paste.  If  the  paste  is  light,  the  shells 
will  be  fine,  and  may  be  used  either  for  tarts  or  oysters. 

APPLE  TARTS. 

Stew  and  strain  tart  apples  ;  add  cinnamon,  rose  water,  boiled  cider 
and  sugar  to  taste ;  lay  this  in  the  above  paste  ;  squeeze  thereon  orange 
juice.  Raspberry,  currant  and  plum  tarts  may  be  made  of  the  pre- 
serves.    Lay  bars  of  paste  across  the  top  of  the  dish. 

BANANA  AND  APPLE  TART. 

Make  crust  of  fine  flour  and  fresh  butter.  Line  dishes  with  crust ; 
slice  apples  fine" and  put  in  dish  with  three  or  four  bananas  sliced,  add- 
ing sugar  and  a  little  syrup.  Cover  crust  over  fruit;  brush  a  little 
melted  butter  over  top,  strew  white  sugar  on  and  bake  twenty  minutes 
or  more,  as  required. 


650  PIES  AND  TARTLETS. 

JELLY  TARTLETS. 

Make  the  paste  the  same  as  for  pies ;  line  small  pattypans,  pricking 
the  paste  in  the  bottom  to  keep  it  from  puffing  too  high  ;  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  and  fill  with  jelly  or  jam. 

LEMON  TARTS. 

Grate  two  whole  lemons,  add  two  cups  sugar,  three  well  beaten  eggs, 
piece  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  ^gg.  Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly 
and  place  over  the  fire,  stirring  till  it  boils  up,  and  then  set  away  to  cool. 
This  will  keep  all  winter  and  can  be  used  for  tarts  anytime  by  making 
nice  crust. 

NUT  TART. 

Take  four  ounces  almonds  and  four  ounces  walnuts ;  pound  with  a 
little  water  and  stirr  to  foam  with  one-half  pound  sugar,  two  whole 
and  ten  yolks  of  eggs.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  five  eggs  and  one  and 
one-half  ounces  flour.  Cook  and  fill  with  the  following :  eight  ounces 
wainut  kernels,  scraped  into  milk,  sweetened  with  sugar  and  stirred 
with  cream. 

PINE  APPLE  TART. 

Take  one  pineapple,  pare  and  carefully  remove  all  specks  ;  measure 
and  take  the  same  quantity  in  sugar  and  half  the  quantity  in  butter,  one 
cup  of  cream,  five  eggs ;  stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  and  add  it  to 
the  pineapple,  previously  grated ;  then  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and 
the  cream.  Line  the  tins  with  a  good  crust  and  bake  to  a  light  brown 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

SAND  TARTS. 

Half  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar ;  two  eggs ;  flour  enough 
to  roll  thin ;  cut  in  squares ;  beat  white  of  an  tgg  stiff,  spread  on  each 
cake  with  a  feather ;  dust  cinnamon  on  top ;  also  small  pieces  of 
blanched  almonds  on  top  ;  bake  quick. 

STRAWBERRY  TARTS. 

Two  eggs,  one  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  small  piece  butter 
size  of  a  partridge  egg;  beat  well  together;  add  one  cup  sweet  milk; 
roll  paste  thin  ;  place  in  pattypans  or  pie  dish ;  after  pouring  in  the 
above  mixture  strew  into  it  one  layer  of  nice  berries ;  bake  until  the 
eggs  are  cooked,  and  you  have  a  delicious  tart.  No  flavoring  is  needed 
except  the  berries. 

VINEGAR  PIES. 

One  and  a  half  cups  good  vinegar,  one  cup  of  water,  lump  of  butter 
size  of  an  &gg,  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  to  the  taste ;  flavor  with  lemon; 


PUDDINGS.  651 

put  in  stew-pan  on  stove;  take  five  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  with  one  cup 
of  water  and  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  flour;  when  the  vinegar 
comes  to  a  boil  put  in  the  eggs  and  flour,  stirring  till  well  cooked ; 
have  ready  crust  for  four  pies,  put  in  the  filling  and  bake  ;  beat  the 
whites  with  two  spoonfuls  of  white  sugar  to  a  froth,  spread  on  the  pies 
when  done,  and  color  in  the  oven. 


PUDDINGS. 

ALMOND  PUDDING. 

Take  two  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  one  pint  cream,  one-half  pound 
pounded  almonds,  six  bitter  almonds,  the  yolks  of  seven  eggs,  whites  of 
three,  six  ounces  sugar,  four  ounces  butter,  one  glass  of  wine — if  liked. 
Bring  the  cream  to  a  boiling  point,  pour  it  over  the  bread  crumbs  and 
let  them  stand  till  nearly  cold,  then  mix  in  the  sweet  and  bitter  almonds, 
pounded  to  a  paste  with  a  little  water,  stir  to  them  by  degrees  the  yolks 
and  then  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  sugar  and  butter ;  turn  the  mixture  in 
a  porcelain-lined  stew-pan  and  stir  it  continually  over  a  slow  fire  until 
thick,  but  it  must  not  boil.  When  nearly  cold,  add  the  wine,  pour  the 
mixture  into  a  dish  lined  with  puff  paste  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

BAKED  APPLE  PUDDING. 

A  loaf  of  stale  bread ;  steam  twenty  minutes  before  dinner ;  slice, 
spread  with  stewed  apple,  and  a  little  butter  strewn  with  sugar,  and 
brown  lightly  in  a  quick  oven.     Eat  with  either  hard  or  liqufd  sauce. 

BOILED  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Make  a  paste  with  finely  chopped  suet  and  twice  the  amount  of  flour, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little  water.  Roll  it  out  thin  into  a  large  piece, 
put  this  over  a  well-buttered  basin,  and  push  it  in  so  as  to  line  the  basin 
with  it ;  cut  it  off  all  round  so  as  to  leave  enough  to  fold ;  roll  out  the 
trimmings  to  a  size  to  cover  the  top  of  the  basin.  Pare,  core, 
and  slice  a  quantity  of  good  sound  apples,  put  them  in  the  basin  in  lay- 
ers, scatter  sugar  between  each,  and  one  or  two  cloves,  or  chopped 
lemon  peel,  or  a  little  grated  nutmeg;  add  a  small  piece  of  fresh  butter, 
pack  the  apples  tightly,  put  on  the  cover  of  paste,  turn  the  edges  and 
press  them  down,  tie  a  floured  pudding  cloth  over  it,  and  put  the  basin 
into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water ;  keep  it  covered  with  water.  Boil  from 
two  to  three  hours,  according  to  size. 


552  PUDDINGS. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

Butter  a  baking  dish  ;  sprinkle  the  bouom  Vv^ith  raisins;  butter  a  few 
slices  of  bread,  lay  over  the  raisins  (have  enough  slices  to  cover  the 
•custard);  one  quart  milk  and  six  eggs;  beat  well  together;  add  two- 
thirds  cup  white  sugar;  pour  over  bread  when  done;  turn  on  another 
dish  and  cut  in  slices  when  cold. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING. 

Slice  bread,  spread  with  butter,  and  lay  it  in  a  deep  dish  with  cur- 
rants between  each  layer ;  add  sliced  citron,  orange  or  lemon,  if  to  be 
very  nice  ;  pour  over  unboiled  custard  fi.ivored  to  your  taste)  at  least 
two  hours  before  it  is  to  be  baked  ;  and  dip  it  over  to  soak  the  bread. 

BIRD'S  NEST  PUDDING. 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  nice  tart  apples  ;  butter  a  pie-tin  and  slice  the 
apples  in  it;  make  a  batter  of  one  cup  cream  (sour,  and  ngt  very  rich),, 
one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  tgg,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  baiter.  Pour  this  over  the  apples  and  bake  ;  when  done  turn  bot- 
tom side  up  and  spread  thickly  with  good  sweet  butter  and  sugar.  To 
be  eaten  warm. 

CAKE  PUDDING. 

Take  old  bits  of  cake  (if  two  or  three  kinds  all  the  better),  break  in 
small  pieces,  put  them  in  a  pudding  dish  which  has  been  previously  but- 
tered ;  make  a  rich  custard  ;  pour  over  the  cake  ;  bake  or  steam.  It  is 
made  still  nicer  by  addmg  cocoanut  frostings,  and  settmg  in  the  oven 
till  of  a  light  brown. 

CHERRY  PUDDING. 

Make  a  crust  as  for  ordinary  pies,  only  adding  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder;  line  with  it  a  deep  dish,  and  fill  with  the  large,  red, 
sour  cherries,  stoned  and  well  sweetened  ;  shake  over  them  a  dust  of 
flour,  and  roll  the  top  crust  thick,  as  for  a  meat  pie  ;  stew  a  few  more  of 
the  cherries  so  as  to  have  plenty  of  juice,  should  the  pudding  not  be 
moist  enough.  When  it  is  done  make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  three 
eggs,  beaten  with  sugar  and  spread  over  the  top,  returning  it  to  the 
oven  for  a  minute  or  two,  until  it  is  a  light  brown. 

CRISTMASPLUM  PUDDING. 

One  pound  raisins  stoned,  one  pound  currants  cleaned  and  dried,  one 
pound  of  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  one  pound  of  bread  crumbs  (stale  are 
the  best),  one  pound  of  brown  sugar;  then  cut  in  small  pieces  two 
ounces  of  lemon,  orange  and  citron,  candied  peel,  half  a  nutmeg  grated, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  mixed  spice, 


PL  UM  P  UDDING.  55  3 

half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  eight  eggs.  Mix  all  well  together  with  your 
hands  except  the  eggs,  which  must  be  beaten,  yolks  and  whites  sep- 
arately, whites  to  a  froth  with  the  back  of  a  knife  if  you  have  not  any 
^gg  beater.  Now  mix  your  eggs  with  the  other  ingredients,  it  must  be 
quite  thick  or  it  will  fall  apart ;  if  not  moist  enough  add  one  or  two 
eggs.  Half  this  quantity  is  enough  for  a  small  family.  Grease  the 
mold  or  bowl,  fill  with  the  mixture,  grease  a  plate  and  put  over  the  top 
wrong  side  up  ;  dip  your  pudding  cloth  into  boiling  water,  dredge  it 
with  flour  and  tie  securely.  Have  a  large  pot  of  boiHng  water  ready  ; 
plunge  your  pudding  in,  moving  it  about  for  a  minute  ;  always  keep 
the  pudding  covered  with  water ;  keep  a  kettle  boiling  near  by  to 
replenish  with  ;  never  let  the  pot  go  off  the  boil,  or  it  will  spoil  your 
puflding.  Boil  six  hours  the  first  day,  and  when  you  are  ready  to  eat  it 
boil  two  hours  more ;  before  untying  the  cloth,  plunge  the  pudding  into 
cold  water,  then  your  pudding  will  not  stick.  Cover  it  with  finely  pow- 
dered sugar  before  sending  to  table,  and  serve  with  sauce. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  pound  raisins  (Valencia  are  best),  stoned  ;  one  pound  raisins, 
seedless;  one  pound  currants;  one  pound  flour;  one  pound  bread 
crumbs,  fine;  one-quarter  pound  candied  citron,  shred  fine;  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  salt,  or  more;  mixed  spice,  to  taste;  eight  eggs,  well  beaten 
up  ;  mix  the  whole  well  together  with  new  milk  into  as  stiff  a  batter  as 
can 'be  worked,  until  thoroughly  incorporated.  The  pudding  cloth 
must  be  strong  and  the  outside  rubbed  with  butter  to  prevent  sticking. 
Leave  a  Httle  room  for  expansion,  buftie  tight  with  stout  twine.  Place 
a  plate  in  bottom  of  kettle  to  avoid  burning,  and  boil  not  less  than  seven 
hours.  Serve,  with  spirit  heated  and  poured  over,  in  a  large  dish  ;  light 
with  writing  paper,  and  decorate  with  three  or  four  sprigs  of  holly  with 
berries  on.  This  dish  should  be  served  last  at  dinner,  with  lights  low- 
ered, until  cut  up.  This  pudding  will  keep  for  weeks  (if  not  eaten),  and 
is  better  cold  than  hot. 


OLD-FASHIONED  PLUM  PUDDING. 

A  half-pound  of  bread  crumbs,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of 
chopped  suet,  one  pound  of  raisins,  a  half-pound  of  currants,  a  quar- 
ter-pound of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  candied  citron  and  lemon-peel 
mixed,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  two  eggs,  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  spice  to  taste,  and  three  large  tablespoonfuls  of 
molasses.  Mix  the  half  pound  of  bread  crumbs  with  milk  or  water. 
This  makes  two  ordinary  sized  puddings.  Grease  the  bowl  and  put  it 
in  ;  tie  a  cloth  firmly  over  the  top,  turning  the  corners  up  over  the  top, 
securing  with  a  pin  and  leaving  room  in  the  cloth  for  it  to  swell  ;  boil 


554  PUDDINGS. 

six  hours  ;  set  away  in  a  cool  place.     This  will  keep  some  weeks,  when 
it  can  be  reboiled. 

CREAM  RICE  PUDDING. 
Wash  four  ounces  of  rice  through  two  waters,  put  it  in  a  baking  dish 
with  three  ounces  of  sugar  and  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  flavoring ;  pour  in  three 
pints  of  milk,  and  put  into  a  moderate  oven,  to  bake  one  hour  and  a 
half,  or  until  it  is  of  a  creamy  consistency.  This  is  very  deUcate  and 
wholesome. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

Mix  one-quarter  pound  chocolate  and  three  tablespoonfuls  flour  with 
one  cup  of  milk,  beat  smooth,  add  one-quarter  pound  fresh  butter, 
melted,  and  cook  all  till  it  loosens  from  the  pot.  Add  one  ^g%,  stir  all 
together,  and  let  it  cool.  In  the  meantime  mix  the  yolks  of  seven  eggs 
with  one-quarter  pound  powdered  sugar,  adding  first  the  cold  dough, 
then  the  beaten  whites  of  seven  eggs  and  a  little  pounded  vanilla. 
Put  the  whole  into  a  buttered  form  and  let  it  cook  two  hours.  For  the 
sauce  take  one-quarter  quart  cream,  one-quarter  quart  milk ;  cook  both 
with  one-quarter  pound  sugar  and  a  little  extract  of  vanilla.  Add  to 
the  mixture  three  yolks  of  eggs  to  v/hich  have  been  added  one  tea- 
spoonful  corn  starch  and  a  little  cold  milk,  and  let  the  whole  cook  for  a 
few  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

Take  sufficient  stale  bread  to  make  a  pudding  the  size  you  require  ; 
pour  boiling  water  over  it.  After  it  is  soaked  well,  take  a  fork  and  see 
that  no  lumps  of  bread  remain  ;  then  add  half  a  cup  of  grated  cocoa- 
nut  ;  make  a  custard  of  one  quart  of  milk  and  four  eggs,  flour  with  nut- 
meg, and  sweeten  with  white  sugar ;  pour  over  and  bake  immediately. 

CORN  MEAL  PUDDING. 

Take  three  pints  of  milk  and  seven  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  meal.  Take 
half  the  milk  and  put  in  a  spider  with  the  meal,  and  scald,  stirring  con- 
stantly. While  still  warm,  stir  in  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  sugar 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Use  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  and  four  eggs, 
thoroughly  beaten  (not  separately).  Bake  slowly  three  hours.  A  few 
raisins  are  a  great  improvement. 

CORN  STARCH  MERINGUE. 

Four  eggs,  one  quart  of  milk,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  four 
teaspoonfuls  of  com  starch,  half  a  cup  of  jelly  or  jam.  Heat  the  milk 
to  boiling  and  stir  in  the  corn  starch,  which  has  previously  been  dis- 
solved in  a  little  cold  water ;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time ; 


APPLE  DUMPLINGS.  555 

remove  from  the  fire  and  while  still  hot  add  gradually  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  up  with  the  sugar  and  flavored  with  vanilla  or  lemon  ; 
pour  this  into  a  pudding-dish,  well  buttered,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes, 
or  until  the  custard  begins  to  set.  Draw  to  door  of  the  o\'en  and 
spread  quickly  and  lightly  upon  it  a  meringue  of  the  whites,  beaten 
stiff  with  a  half  cup  of  jelly.  Bake,  covered,  for  five  minutes  ;  then 
brown  slightly.  Eat  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  thickly  over  the 
top. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  tolerably  stiff  bat- 
ter ;  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 
sifted  with  the  flour,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  cream  the  butter 
and  sugar,  beat  'in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  the  milk  and  soda,  the 
salt  and  the  beaten  whites,  alternately  with  the  flour.  Bake  in  a  but- 
tered mold,  turn  out  upon  a  dish,  and  eat  with  liquid  sauce. 

CURD  PUDDING. 

Pour  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  on  a  pint  and  a  half  of  buttermilk ;  strain 
and  press  the  curd  lightly ;  then  beat  well  with  one  ounce  of  butter, 
one  ounce  of  sugar,  a  teacup  of  bread  crumbs  and  four  eggs  ;  bake  in 
cups  half  an  hour. 

DELMONICO  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  milk,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  four  eggs,  nine 

tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  with  flavoring  to  the  taste.     Dissolve  the  corn 

starch  in  a  little  cold  milk  and  add  it  to  the  rest  of  the   milk  and  boil 

three  minutes ;  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  six  tablespoonfuls  of 

sugar ;  stir  in  the  milk  with  the  flavoring ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 

to  a  stiff  froth  with  the  three  spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  flavoring,  and 

when  the  pudding  is  nearly  done  draw  it  to  the  mouth  of  the  oven  and 

spread  on  the  icing  and  bake  to  a  light  brown.      To  be  eaten  cold  with 

cream. 

DRIED  APPLE  ROLL. 

Take  a  large  cup  of  dried  apples,  and  with  an  old  pair  of  scissors 

clip  them  up  fine;  pour  boiling  water  on,  and  let  soak  nearly  an  hour; 

take  a  pint  of  flour,  a  Httle  soda,  dissolved  in  sour  milk,  a  tablespoonful 

of  lard,  and  make  the  roll,  working  it  well ;  now  roll  it  out  a  quarter  of 

an  inch  thick,  and  spread  on  the  apples  ;  make  two  rolls,  that  they  may 

cook  quicker,  and  put  them  on  to  boil.     Eaten  hot,  with  rich  sauce. 

• 

BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Make  a  rich  crust,  roll  out  and  cut  the  size  of  a  coffee  saucer ;  put 
four  quarters  of  apples  into  each  piece,  lapping  the  edges  together  ; 
bake  one  hour;  when  done  make  a  sauce  of  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  table- 


556  PUDDINGS, 

spoonful  of  cornstarch,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar,  a  little  salt ;  mix  all  well  together ;  then  pour  on  one  pint  of 
boiling  water,  stirring  briskly ;  boil  twenty  minutes  ;  then  add  one  table- 
spoonful of  extract  of  lemon ;  place  the  dumplings  on  a  platter  and 
pour  the  sauce  over  them.     Serve  hot. 

BOILED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

One  quart  prepared  flour,  one-fourth  pound  of  suet,  powdered,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  cold  water  to  make  a  pretty  stiff  paste,  fine  juicy 
apples  pared  and  cored.  Make  the  paste ;  roll  into  a  sheet  a  quartei 
of  an  inch  thick ;  cut  into  squares ;  put  in  the  center  of  each  an  apple ; 
bring  the  corners  together  and  pinch  the  edges.  Have  ready  some 
small  square  cloths,  dipped  in  hot  water  and  fiourejfl  on  the  inside. 
Enclose  each  dumpling  in  one  of  these,  leaving  room  to  swell,  and  tie 
it  up  bag- wise  with  a  stout  string.  Boil  one  hour ;  turn  out  and  serve 
with  plenty  of  sweet  sauce. 

CHERRY  DUMPLINGS. 

Take  one  cup  of  prepared  flour,  or  use  baking  powder  and  flour  same 
as  for  biscuits  ;  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  two  cups  fresh  milk, 
a  little  salt,  two  cups  of  stoned  cherries,  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar. 
Rub  the  lard  into  the  salted  f^our,  wet  up  with  the.  milk;  roll  into  a 
sheet  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  into  squares.  Put  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cherries  into  the  center  of  each  ;  sugar  them  ;  turn  up  the 
edges  of  the  paste  and  pinch  them  together.  Lay  the  joined  edges 
downward,  upon  a  floured  baking-pan  and  bake  half  an  hour  or  until 
browned.     Eat  hot  with  a  good  sauce. 

FRUIT  DUMPLINGS. 

Make  a  crust,  same  as  for  apple  dumplings ;  roll  out  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick,  and  cut  into  oblong  pieces  rounded  at  the  corners.  Put  a 
tablespoonful  of  damson,  cherry  or  other  tart  preserve,  in  the  middle 
and  roll  into  a  dumpling.  Bake  about  forty  minutes,  brush  over  with 
beaten  ^g%  while  hot,  and  shut  up  in  the  oven  to  glaze.  Eat  hot  with 
pudding  sauce. 

HUCKLEBERRY  DUMPLINGS. 

One  quart  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful 
lard  worked  into  the  flour,  one  cup  milk.  Roll  out  and  cut  larger  than 
biscuit ;  put  in  the  berries  and  turn  the  edges  closely.  Steam  or  boil  in 
a  closely  covered  kettle  fifteen  minutes.     Eat  with  melted  sauce. 


D  UMPLINGS—FR  UIT  P  UDDING.  557 


RASPBERRY  DUMPIsINGS. 

Make  a  puff  paste  and  roll  it  out.  Spread  raspberry  jam  (any  other 
is  just  as  good),  and  make  it  into  dumplings.  Boil  them  an  hour; 
pour  melted  butter  into  a  dish  and  strew  sugar  over  it  for  sauce. 

YEAST  OR  SUFFOLK  DUMPLINGS. 

Make  a  very  light  dough  with  yeast,  as  for  bread,  but  with  milk 
instead  of  water  (or  use  the  common  bread  dough),  and  put  in  salt ;  let  it 
rise  an  hour  before  the  fire.  Twenty  minutes  before  you  are  to  serve, 
have  ready  a  large  stewpan  of  boiling  water;  make  the  dough  into  balls, 
the  size  of  middling  apples ;  throw  them  in  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 
To  try  when  done  enough,  stick  a  clean  fork  into  one.  and  if  it 
comes  out  clean  it  is  done.  The  way  to  eat  them  is  to  tear  them  apart 
on  the  top  with  two  forks,  for  they  become  heavy  by  their  own  steam. 
Eat  immediately  with  meat,  sugar  and  butter  or  salt.  The  water  must 
be  kept  boiling,  for  all  puddings. 

EVE'S  PUDDING. 

Grate  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  bread;  mix  with  it  the  same 
quantity  of  shredded  suet,  the  same  of  apples  and  also  of  currants ;  mix 
with  these  the  whole  of  four  eggs  and  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  shred 
fine;  put  it  into  cups  or  molds  and  boil  about  two  hours ;  a  cloth  must 
be  floured  and  tied  over  it.  Make  a  pudding  sauce  to  serve  with  it, 
flavored  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  little  nutmeg. 

FRUIT  PUDDING. 
Pour  over  half  a  loaf  of  dry  bread  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  it ; 
let  it  stand  until  soft,  then  dram  off  the  water  and  add  to  it  three  eggs 
well  beaten,  two  cups  of  white  sugar,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
hulled  walnut,  and  a  pint  of  any  dried  fruit  desired.  Mix  the  ingre- 
dients thoroughly ;  put  into  a  floured  cloth,  drop  into  boiling  water, 
and  keep  it  covered  and  boiling  for  one  hour.  Serve  with  sweet  or  sour 
sauce,  as  preferred.  Good  cream,  well  sweetened,  into  which  has 
been  squeezed  the  juice  of  lemon,  is  nice. 

GREEN  CORN  PUDDING. 

Twelve  ears  of  green  corn,  grated,  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  three  of  sugar  and  three  eggs  ;  bake  in  a  but- 
tered dish  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  it  is  done ;  put  ihe  butter  in 
last  on  top,  and  it  will  bake  nice  and  brown. 


558  PUDDINGS, 

GELATINE  PUDDING. 

Dissolve  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  add 
two  cups  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons ;  after  this  has  become 
cool  (not  cold),  break  into  it  the  whites  of  three  eggs ;  beat  all  to  a 
stiff  froth  ;  make  a  soft  custard  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  adding 
three  others  and  a  quart  of  milk  ;  pour  the  whites  into  molds,  and  when 
ready  for  use,  turn  them  out,  pouring  the  custard  over. 

GINGER  PUDDING. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  one-quarter  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  two  large 
teaspoonfuls  of  ginger,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  saleratus,  two  of  cream  of 
tartar  ;  fiour  enough  to  thicken ;  steam  two  hours  and  a  half. 

HALF-HOUR  PUDDING. 

Beat  four  tablespoonfuls  butter  to  a  cream,  with  half  a  pint  pow- 
dered sugar  ;  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beating  them  in  thoroughly  ; 
then  a  rounded  half-pint  of  corn-meal  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  a  pudding  dish  well  but- 
tered.    Serve  hot  with  sauce. 

HEN'S  NEST  PUDDING. 

Fill  nine  egg-shells  that  have  been  emptied  by  breaking  a  hole  on  the 
side,  with  firm  blanc  mange.  Take  the  rind  from  two  lemons  and 
cut  it  into  fine  straws  with  shears ;  boil  the  straws  in  a  little  water  until 
tender,  then  put  in  three  teaspoonfuls  sugar,  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer. 
Fill  a  round  glass  dish  with  thick  custard  or  whipped  cream,  place 
the  straws  around  the  edge,  break  the  shells  from  the  eggs,  and  place 
them  carefully  in  the  center,  smooth  side  up. 

HUNTER'S  PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  beef  suet,  one  pound  of  raisins,  stoned ;  one  pound  of 
flour,  one  pound  of  currants,  the  peel  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  salt,  all- 
spice, a  glass  of  boiled  cider  and  five  eggs.  Boil  four  hours  in  a  cloth 
or  mold.  The  above  can  be  divided  into  two  puddings,  and  after  being 
boiled  can  be  hung  up.  When  ready  to  use  boil  an  hour.  This  is 
good  when  you  are  in  need  of  a  pudding  at  short  notice.  It  will  keep 
good  several  months,  if  hung  up.     Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

ICED  PUDDING. 

Half-pound  of  sweet  almonds,  two  ounces  of  bitter  almonds,  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  eight  eggs,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  milk. 
Blanch  and  dry  the  almonds  thoroughly  in  a  cloth,  then  pound  them  in 


LEMON  MERING UE  P  UDDING.  559 

a  mortar  until  reduced  to  a  smooth  paste  ;  add  to  the  well-beaten  eggs 
the  sugar  and  milk;  stir  these  ingredients  over  the  tire  until  they 
thicken,  but  do  not  allow  them  to  boil ;  then  strain  and  put  the  mixture 
into  the  freezing  can  ;  surround  it  with  ice  and  freeze  it.  When  quite 
frozen,  fill  an  iced  pudding  mold,  put  on  the  lid  and  keep  the  pudding 
in  ice  until  required  for  the  table  ;  then  turn  it  out  on  the  dish  and  gar- 
nish it  with  a  compote  of  any  fruit  that  may  be  preferred,  pouring  a 
little  over  the  top  of  the  pudding. 

IRISH  WHISKS. 

One  tgg,  one  cup  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  melted  butter,  one-half 
teaspoonful  saleratus,  a  httle  nutmeg;  mix  stiff  enough  to  roll  in  small 
cakes  and  bake. 

KISS  PUDDING. 

Scald  one  quart  of  milk  and  dissolve  six  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch 
in  cold  milk  ;  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  stir  into  the  scalding 
milk;  put  the  whole  into  a  dish  and  let  it  stand  and  cool.  Take  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beat  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  put  on  top,  and- set  in 
the  oven  to  brown. 

LEMON  MERINGUE  PUDDING. 

One  quart  milk,  two  cups  bread  crumbs,  four  eggs,  half-cup  butter, 
one  cup  white  sugar,  one  large  lemon,  juice,  and  half  the  rind  grated  ; 
so\V  the  bread  in  the  milk ;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  with  the  sugar  and 
butter  rubbed  to  a  cream  ;  also  the  lemon.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish 
until  firm  and  browned  slightly;  draw  to  the  door  of  the  oven  and 
cover  with  a  meringue  of  the  whites  whipped  to  a  froth  with  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Brown 
very  slightly,  sift  pov/dered  sugar  over  it  and  eat  cold.  You  may  make 
an  orange  pudding  in  the  same  way. 

MACARONI  PUDDING. 

Take  a  plateful  of  macaroni,  break  into  two-inch  pieces  and  boil  in 
water.  When  done  pour  into  a  colander  and  let  it  drain  ;  then  put  it 
in  a  pudding  pan  ;  add  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, half  a  pint  of  milk,  sweetened  to  taste,  flavor  with  cinnamon  and 
nutmeg  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake. 

MOUNTAIN  DEW  PUDDING. 

Four  large  crackers,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  a  little  salt,  yolks  of  two 
well-beaten  eggs  ;  bake  half  an  hour ;  then  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
beaten  stiff,  and  half  a  cup  of  pulverized  sugar ;  set  in  the  oven  and 
slightly  brown.     Serve  without  sauce. 


660  PUDDINGS, 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

Take  three  or  four  oranges,  peel  and  slice  very  thin,  put  into  a  pudding 
dish,  sprinkle  over  them  enough  sugar  to  sweeten  nicely,  and  let  stand 
awhile.  Make  a  boiled  custard  of  one  pint  of  milk,  two  tablespoonf  uls  of 
flour,  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  when  cool  pour  it  on  the  orange. 
Be  sure  and  not  pour  on  while  hot,  as  it  will  cook  the  orange  and  spoil 
the  taste.  Thoroughly  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  powdered 
sugar,  pour  over  the  top  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

PEAS  PUDDING. 

Dry  a  pint  or  quart  of  split  peas  before  the  fire,  then  tie  them  up 
loosely  in  a  cloth,  and  put  into  warm  water;  boil  them  a  couple  of 
hours  (until  quite  tender)  ;  take  them  up,  wash  them  well  with  a  little 
salt  and  batter,  and  add  the  yolk  of  an  ^%%\  make  it  quite  smooth;  tie 
it  up  again  in  the  cloth  and  boil  it  an  hour  longer.  This  is  very  nice 
with  corn  beef  or  pork. 

PEACH  TAPIOCA. 

Soak  half  pint  tapioca  in  half  pint  of  cold  water  several  hours,  or 
over  night;  fill  a  baking  dish  half  full  of  nice  canned  peaches,  no  syrup  ; 
sweeten  to  taste;  bake  half  an  hour;  add  half  pint  of  the  syrup  to 
tapioca,  enough  boiling  water  to  thin  and  half  a  teacup  sugar.  Boil 
this  till  clear ;  pour  over  the  peaches  and  bake  slowly  half  an  hour. 
Serve  cold  with  cream  and  sugar. 

PEACH   OR    BERRY  PUDDING. 

Take  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of  sugar ;  beat 
together;  add  one  cup  sour  milk,  and  soda  in  proportion  to  acid  in 
milk;  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  beat  briskly  until 
smooth  :  have  your  pan  buttered  ;  pour  in  half  the  batter ;  put  into  it 
one  and  a  half  pints  of  ripe  peaches  sliced  thin,  or  one  pint  of  berries  ; 
pour  over  this  balance  of  the  batter ;  bake  until  done,  and  serve  with 
hot  sauce. 

PORK  PUDDING. 

One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  fat  salt  pork,  chopped 
fine,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  ;  stir  as  thick  with  flour  as  you  can  ;  steam 
two  hours.     Make  a  liquid  sauce  and  flavor  with  lemon. 

QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS. 

One  pint  of  nice,  fine  bread  crumbs,  one  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beaten,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  ^gg  ;  bake  unt4  done,  but  not  watery ; 
whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff ;  beat  in  a  teacup  of  sugar,  in  which 


SNO  W  P  UDDING.  561 

has  been  strained  the  juice  of  the  lemon ;  spread  over  the  pudding  a 
layer  of  jelly ;  pour  the  whites  of  the  eggs  over  this  ;  replace  in  the 
oven  ;  bake  lightly ;  to  be  eaten  cold,  with  cream,  if  preferred. 

ROLY-POLY. 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  flour,  salt, 
one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  bake  in  a  large  shallow  square  tin, 
or  double  the  rule  and  bake  in  the  dripping  pan  ;  as  soon  as  done  turn 
out  on  a  clean  cloth ;  spread  the  bottom  quickly  and  evenly  with  cho- 
colate, jelly  or  fruit  (not  too  much),  and  begin  at  the  end  to  roll  it  over 
and  over,  then  lay  it  on  a  plate  with  the  last  roll  underneath,,  to  hold  it, 
and  cool. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

Make  first  a  boiled  custard  of  one  quart  of  milk  and  the  yolks  of  five 
«ggs  well  beaten.  When  the  milk  is  boiling  pour  it  over  the  eggs  ;  stir 
well ;  return  to  the  vessel  and  let  come  to  the  boil ;  it  requires  no 
sugar.  When  somewhat  cool  add  a  little  vanilla.  Set  it  in  a  cool 
place  till  needed,  Then,  to  a  box  of  gelatine  add  a  pint  of  cold  water 
and  soak  one  hour ;  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  five 
lemons  and  a  quart  of  boiling  water ;  stir  till  all  is  dissolved  and  then 
strain  through  a  jelly  bag;  take  from  it  one  pint  and  place  the  rest  on 
ice,  to  freeze ;  take  the  whites  of  the  five  eggs  you  have  used  for  the 
custard  and  beat  as  stiff  as  possible;  then  beat  into  them  half  a  cup  of 
pulverized  sugar  and  the  pint  of  gelatine  mixture  which  you  have 
reserved  ;  it  should  be  cool,  or  it  will  flatten  the  eggs  ;  pour  into  a  mold 
or  molds  ;  also  set  in  a  cool  place  to  stiffen.  When  it  is  time  to  pre- 
pare the  dessert  for  the  table,  turn  out  the  contents  of  the  mold  into  a 
shallow  glass  dish  or  bowl;  cut  the  jelly  into  triangular  pieces  and 
lay  around  it ;  lastly,  pour  over  both  the  custard. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Take  one  cup  of  tapioca,  and  after  washing  in  two  or  three  waters,  to 
remove  the  earthy  taste,  put  to  soak  over  night ;  next  morning  put  it  on 
to  boil,  as  you  would  rice,  being  careful  to  stir  often,  to  prevent  burn- 
ing; when  soft,  add  three  or  four  well-beaten  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cups 
of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  flavor  to  suit  the  taste ; 
bake  as  you  would  rice  pudding,  and  eat  hot  or  cold,  with  or  without 
sauce,  as  preferred. 

STRAWBERRY  TAPIOCA. 

One-half  cup  of  tapioca,  soaked  over  night  in  enough  water  to  cover; 
boil  in  water   until  done  ;    then   put  half  a   can  of    strawberries   and 
sweeten  to  taste.     Mix  all  together  and  bake  half  an  hour  quite  slowly. 
36 


562  PUDDINGS, 

SWEET  POTATO  PONE. 

Take  four  large  sweet  potatoes,  peel  and  grate  them,  then  add  two 
cups  of  water  or  milk,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  ^^^,  melted, 
three  eggs  well  beaten,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  allspice  and  cinnamon, 
one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger,  and  half  a  nutmeg,  grated ;  mix 
all  the  ingredients  well,  butter  a  pudding-pan,  pour  in  your  pone,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

Three  cups  flour,  one  cup  milk,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  suet, 
chopped  fine,  one  cup  fruit,  chopped  fine,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one-half 
teaspoonfj^l  of  salt  mixed  with  the  suet.     Steam  three  hours. 

RAISIN  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  shortening,  two  eggs,  one  cup  milk, 
one  cup  currants,  two  cups  raisins,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  soda; 
spices  to  taste,  and  steam  two  hours.     Eat  with  hard  sauce. 

WHORTLEBERRY  PUDDING. 

One  pound  sugar,  half  pound  butter,  three-fourths  pound  flour,  five 
eggs  and  one  quart  berries.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream ;  add 
the  flour,  sifted,  alternately  with  the  eggs,  whipped  to  a  froth ;  the  ber- 
ries last  rolled  in  flour.     Bake  in  a  buttered  cake  dish. 

VEGETABLE  PUDDING. 

Half  a  pound  of  carrots,  half  a  pound  of  cold,  mashed  potatoes,  the 
same  of  flour,  suet,  sugar,  four  ounces  candied  lemon-peel,  one-quarter 
of  a  pound  of  currants  ;  boil  slowly  for  four  hours. 

YANKEE  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  same  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  one-ha;f  cup 
sugar,  two  spoonfuls  of  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  saleratus,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  ginger,  same  of  cinnamon,  five  cups  of  flour,  one  ^gg  ;  bake 
in  a  shallow  pan.  Sauce — One  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  half  cup  sugar, 
white  of  one  ^g'g  beaten  lightly,  one  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch ;  flavor 
with  nutmeg ;  boil  one  minute. 

MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERT  DISHES. 
APPLE  CHARLOTTE. 

Put  a  layer  of  bread,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  buttered  on  both  sides, 
in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish,  and  on  this  a  layer  of  apples,  cut  as 
for  a  pie,  seasoning  with  sugar  and  a  dust   of  cinnamon,   alternating 


MISCELLANEO US  DESSER  T  DISHES.  563 

the  bread  and  apples  until  the  dish  is  filled,  having  a  layer  of  bread  on 
top.  Bake  one  half-hour.  If  the  bread  is  in  danger  of  becoming  too 
brown  and  hard,  cover  with  a  plate  until  the  apples  are  cooked.  To  be 
eaten  with  cream. 

A  CHARTREUSE  OF  APPLES  AND  RICE. 

-^.i  six  ounces  of  rice,  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  in  milk,  until  it  is 
thick,  stirring  in  a  spoonful  of  rose  or  orange-flower  water.  Pare  ten 
or  twelve  apples — golden  pippins  are  the  best— scoop  out  the  core,  and 
fill  up  the  orifice  with  raspberry  jam.  Border  a  deep  dish  with  paste, 
put  in  the  apples,  leaving  a  space  between,  and  fill  it  up  with  the  rice. 
Brush  the  whole  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  tgg,  and  sift  sugar  thickly 
over  it ;  form  a  pattern  on  the  top  with  sweetmeats,  and  bake  it  for  an 
hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

CREAM  CHEESE. 

Pour  clabber  into  perforated  molds  in  the  evening,  let  it  drip  all 
night ;  in  the  morning  take  the  cream  cheese  out  of  the  molds  and  pour 
over  it  a  little  cream  and  white  sugar. 

CHEESE  CAKES. 

One  quart  of  curd  after  the  whey  has  been  strained  off ;  mix  with  it 
half  a  pound  of  butter,  an  ounce  of  pounded  blanched  almonds,  three 
eggs,  teacup  of  currants  ;  season  with  sugar  and  lemon,  or  rose  water ; 
bake  in  plates  with  haste. 

EGG  PUFFS. 

Six  eggs,  one  pint  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  flour,  four  ounces  melted 
butter,  one  large  spoonful  yeast ;  mix ;  half  fill  cups  and  bake  fifteen 
minutes.     Eat  with  warm  sauce. 

DUTCH  CHEESE. 

Mix  the  milk  in  the  following  proportions  :  One-half  thick  milk,  one- 
fourth  sweet  milk  and  one-fourth  good  buttermilk;  scald  slowly  in 
iron  or  tin  till  you  can  remove*  the  curd  with  a  skimmer  without  break- 
ing. Place  a  colander  over  a  pail  with  a  linen  strainer  to  receive  the 
cheese,  then  dip  and  drain  ;  season  with  salt  according  to  taste  and  tie 
all  up ;  when  formed  in  a  ball  remove  the  cloth,  place  the  cheese  on  a 
plate  and  rub  the  surface  with  butter  and  slice  as  other  cheese  for  the 
table. 

FONDU. 

Five  eggs,  three  ounces  of  butter,  three  or  four  ounces  of  cheese,  one 
gill  of  cream.  Mix  all  together  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  shapes  made 
of  writing  paper.  More  or  less  cheese  may  be  added  as  the  richness 
may  be  desired. 


564  PUDDINGS. 

CANADIAN  FONDU. 

Two  ounces  of  butter,  four  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  eight  ounces  of 
rich  cheese,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs.  Cut  the  butter  and 
cheese  into  small  pieces,  put  into  a  large  bowl  with  the  bread  crumbs, 
and  pour  on  them  the  milk,  scalding  hot,  after  which  add  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  mix  well  together,  cover 
and  set  back  on  the  stove  or  range,  stirring  occasionally,  until  all  are 
dissolved,  when  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Place  in  a 
buttered  dish  or  pie-plate,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  the  moment  it  is  out  of  the  oven. 

FRENCH  NOUGAT. 

Twenty  ounces  of  almonds  (blanched),  half  a  pound  of  white  sugar, 
half  pound  of  honey,  one  wine  glass  of  orange  flower  water,  whites  of  three 
eggs.  After  the  sugar  has  boiled  pour  in  the  honey  and  orange  water, 
well  stirred ;  add  this  by  degrees  to  the  well  whipped  eggs,  which  must 
be  ready  in  a  large  bowl,  stirring  quickly  until  it  forms  a  paste,  which 
consistency  may  be  tested  by  putting  a  spoonful  in  cold  water,  when  it 
should  snap  and  break.  Stir  the  almonds  in  the  paste,  and  spread  out 
on  wafer  paper,  a  sheet  also  laid  on  the  top,  some  clean  letter  paper 
laid  over  this  and  the  whole  pressed  down  flat  by  a  tin  or  baking  plate 
and  left  to  cool,  after  which  cut  into  slabs  of  two  inches  square  and  put 
away  until  cold. 

ORANGE  SNOWBALLS. 

Boil  some  rice  for  ten  minutes ;  drain  and  let  cool ;  pare  some  oranges, 
taking  off  the  thick,  white  skin ;  spread  the  rice  in  as  many  portions  as 
there  are  oranges,  on  pudding  or  dumpling  cloths ;  tie  the  fruit  (sur- 
rounded by  the  rice)  separately  in  these  and  boil  for  an  hour;  turn  out 
carefully  on  a  dish ;  sprinkle  with  plenty  of  sifted  sugar ;  serve  with 
sauce  or  sweet  cream, 

POP-UPS. 

Two  eggs,  well  beaten ;  two  teacups  of  milk,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  a  thin  batter ;  first  mix  together  the  flour  and  milk  smoothly ; 
just  when  they  are  ready  to  go  into  the  oven,  add  the  eggs,  beaten  very 
light ;  fill  earthen  teacups  half  full  of  the  batter,  with  a  small  lump  of 
butter  on  the  top ;  place  the  cups  on  a  dripping-pan  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven.    They  are  to  be  eaten  with  butter  and  sugar,  or  a  sweet  sauce. 

POTATO  CHEESE-CAKES. 

One  pound  of  mashed  potatoes,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants,  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  butter  and  four  eggs ;  mix  well  together ; 
bake  them  in  pattypans,  having  first  lined  the  pans  with  puff  paste. 


/ 


MISCELLANEOUS  DESSERT  DISHES,  565 

RAMAKINS. 

Four  ounces  of  grated  cheese,  two  ounces  of  butter,  two  ounces  of 
bread  (without  crust),  half  a  gill  of  milk,  one-third  of  a  teaspoonful  each 
of  salt  and  mustard,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  two  eggs.  Crumb  the 
bread  and  boil  soft  in  the  milk ;  add  the  butter,  mustard,  salt,  pepper 
and  cheese,  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs ;  beat  thoroughly,  then  stir  in  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  whisked  to  a  stiff  froth ;  pour  in  a  soup  plate  or  in 
small  squares  of  stiff  white  paper  pinched  at  the  corners,  and  bake 
fifteen  minutes. 

RAISIN  PUFFS. 

Two  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one  cup  of 
milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  of  raisins 
chopped  very  fine ;  stir  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour ;  steam  one- 
half  hour  in  small  cups. 

TO  COOK  RICE. 

To  cook  rice  so  that  the  grains  will  be  whole  and  tender,  wash  it  in 
cold  water  until  the  water  looks  clear,  then  cook  it  rapidly  in  boihng 
water  for  fifteen  minutes,  after  which  drain  and  place  the  covered  sauce- 
pan on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  steam  until  the  grains  crack  open  and 
are  tender,  which  will  be  about  fifteen  minutes  longer. 

MOLDED  RICE. 

Make  a  bag  three  fingers  long,  dip  in  hot  water  and  put  in  your  rice ; 
tie,  leaving  room  for  the  rice  to  swell ;  put  in  pot  with  cold  water ;  let 
come  to  a  boil  (put  salt  in  the  water) ;  cook  from  half  to  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  When  done  it  will  turn  out  dry  like  a  mold.  Serve  with 
milk  or  butter  and  sugar.  Turn  the  bag  often  to  keep  it  from  sticking 
to  the  pot;  it  is  well  to  put  a  saucer  in  the  bottom  to  prevent  its 
burning. 

RICE  A  LA  CREOLE. 

Put  butter  size  of  a  pigeon's  Qgg  into  a  stewpan,  and  when  hot  mix  in 
a  small  onion,  minced,  and  cook  until  it  assumes  a.  pale-yellow  color ; 
put  in  the  rice,  uncooked  ;  stir  it  over  the  fire  until  it  has  a  yellow  color 
also  ;  then  add  a  pint  of  stock.  Boil  slowly  until  the  rice  is  tender, 
about  half  an  hour.  When  about  to  serve,  add  one  ounce  of  grated 
chees,i-,  stirring  for  a  few  moments  without  letting  it  boil. 

RICE  A  LA  CHINAMAN. 

Mucha  washee  in  cold  water,  clean  of  flour  which  make  him  sticky ; 
have  water  boil  ready,  very  fast,  little  salty  ;  throw  him  in,  rice  can't 
burn,  water  shake  him  too  much  ;  boil  quarter  hour  or  little  more ;  rub 


566  PUDDINGS. 

one  rice  'tween  thumb  and  finger  ;  if  all  rub  away,  rice  done ;  put  rice 
in  pan  with  holes ;  hot  water  all  run  away ;  put  rice  back  in  saucepan, 
put  Httle  cup  cold  water  on  him,  keep  him  covered  awhile  by  the  fire, 
then  rice  all  ready,  eat  him  up. 

RICE  SNOWBALLS. 

Six  ounces  of  rice,  one  quart  of  milk,  flavoring  of  essence  of  almonds, 
jsugar  to  taste,  one  pint  of  custard.  Boil  the  rice  in  the  milk  with  sugar 
and  a  flavoring  essence  of  almonds,  until  the  former  is  tender,  adding, 
if  necessary,  a  little  more  milk  should  it  dry  away  too  much ;  when  the 
rice  is  quite  soft  put  it  into  teacups,  or  small  round  jars,  and  let  it 
remain  until  cold.  Then  turn  the  rice  out  on  a  deep  glass  dish,  pour 
over  a  custard,  and  on  the  top  of  each  ball  place  a  small  piece  of  bright 
colored  jelly.  Lemon  peel  or  vanilla  may  be  boiled  with  the  rice 
instead  of  the  essence  of  almonds,  but  the  flavoring  of  the  custard  must 
correspond  with  that  of  the  rice. 

SPANISH  PUFFS. 

Mix  one-half  pint  of  milk  with  two  well-beaten  eggs  ;  add  by  degrees 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  two  ounces  butter,  the  same  of  sugar  and 
the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon ;  mix  well,  butter  some  saucers,  pour  in 
mixture  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes. 

TAPIOCA  JELLY. 

Soak  a  cup  of  tapioca  over  night  in  one  pint  of  water ;  in  the  morn- 
ing set  it  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  and  add  a  cup  of  warm  water ; 
let  it  simmer  slowly,  stirring  it  often  to  prevent  burning  :  cook  until  it 
looks  clear,  and  if  too  thick  add  a  little  boiling  water ;  flavor  with  lemon 
juice  and  sugar,  and  turn  into  wet  molds  to  cool.  Any  other  flavor  can 
be  used  if  preferred.     Serve  cold  with  sweet  cream. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

Cut  the  cheese  in  small  strips,  if  soft ;  if  hard,  g^ate  it  down.  Take 
a  deep  block-tin  dish,  put  in  the  cheese,  with  a  lump  of  butter,  and  set 
on  the  stove  ;  have  ready  the  yolk  of  an  ^%g,  whipped,  with  one-half  a 
glass  of  Madeira  ;  stir  the  cheese  when  melted  till  it  is  thoroughly 
mixed  with  the  butter ;  then  add  gradually  the  ^g^  and  wine  ;  keep 
stirring  till  it  forms  a  smooth  mass  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ; 
spread  on  a  thin,  hot  toast.  A  great  many  prefer  it  without  the  ^g% 
and  wine. 


PUDDING  SAUCES.  667 


PUDDING  SAUCES. 

BEE-HIVE  SAUCE. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  juice  and  peel  of  a  lemon, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  one-fourth  cup  of  currant  jelly  or  cran- 
berry sauce.  Make  hard  sauce  in  the  usual  way  by  creaming  the  butter 
and  sugar.  Before  beating  in  the  lemon  juice  and  nutmeg,  set  aside 
three  tablespoonfuls  to  be  cblored.  Having  added  lemon  and  spice  to 
the  larger  quantity,  color  the  less  by  whipping  in  currant  jelly  or  cran- 
berry syrup  until  it  is  of  a  rich  pink.  Shape  the  white  sauce  into  a 
conical  mound.  Roll  a  sheet  of  note  paper  into  a  long  narrow  funnel, 
tie  a  string  about  it  to  keep  it  in  shape,  and  fill  with  colored  sauce. 
Squeeze  it  gently  through  the  aperture  at  the  smaller  end,  beginning  at 
the  base,  and  winding  round  the  cone  to  the  top,  guiding  it  so  that  the 
white  will  show  prettily  between  the  pink  ridges.  The  effect  is  pleas- 
ing and  costs  but  little  time  to  produce. 

BUTTER  SAUCE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  one  teaspoonful  flour,  yolk  of  one 
egg ;  beat  together  until  it  is  like  cream  ;  pour  into  it  nearly  a  pint  of 
boiling  water  ;  let  it  boil  one  minute  ;  stir  in  the  white  of  one  tgg  beaten 
to  a  froth ;  season  with  nutmeg  or  lemon. 

CREAM  SAUCE. 

Two  cups  rich  milk,  or  one  of  cream  and  milk,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs  whipped  stiff,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  bit- 
ter almonds,  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  one  even  tablespoonful  of  corn 
starch,  wet  up  with  cold  water.  Heat  the  milk  to  scalding ;  add  the 
liquor,  stir  in  the  corn  starch.  When  it  thickens  beat  in  the  stiffened 
whites,  then  the  seasoning.  Take  from  the  fire  and  set  in  boiling  water 
to  keep  warm — but  not  cook — until  wanted. 

CIDER  SAUCE. 

Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  with  an  even  tablespoonful  of  flour ; 
Stir  m  half  pint  of  brown  sugar,  and  half  a  gill  of  boiled  cider ;  add  a 
gill  of  boiling  water,  mix  well,  let  it  simmer  for  a  few  moments  ;  serve 
hot. 

COCOANUT  SAUCE. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  cup  of  sugar,  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
^  milk  of  one  cocoanut,  with  a  small  piece  grated. 


568  PUDDING  SAUCES. 

FOAM  SAUCE. 

One  teacup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful 
of  flour ;  beat  smooth  :  place  over  the  fire  and  stir  in  three  gills  of  boil- 
ing water.  Flavor  with  lemon,  vanilla  or  orange.  To  be  eaten  with 
sponge  cake  or  pudding. 

GERMAN  SAUCE. 

The  whites  of  two  eggs,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  sugar  enough  to 
beat  up  to  a  proper  consistency  for  serving. 

HARD  SAUCE. 

Take  two  cups  of  powdered  sugar ;  add  half  a  cup  of  butter  slightly- 
warmed,  so  that  the  two  can  be  worked  up  together.  When  they  are 
well  mixed,  beat  a  grating  of  nutmeg  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Whip  smooth  and  light,  mound  neatly  on  a  dish  and  set  in  the  cold  to 
harden. 

INCOMPARABLE  SAUCE. 

Rub  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  smooth  in  a  teacup,  with  cold  water,  add- 
ing a  pinch  of  salt.  Then  stir  in  slowly  boiling  water  until  the  cup  is 
full.  Have  ready  in  a  bowl  one  tgg  and  a  teacup  of  the  best  white 
sugar,  beaten  to  a  cream,  and  pour  the  hot  starch  water  slowly  on  the 
^gg  and  sugar,  stirring  it  carefully  the  while.  Flavor  with  lemon  or 
vanilla,  according  to  taste,  and  set  it  on  the  ice ;  to  be  served  cold. 

JELLY  SAUCE. 

Melt  one  ounce  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoon fuls  of  jelly  over  the  fire 
in  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  into  it  a  half  teaspoonful  of  corn 
starch  dissolved  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water;  let  come  to  a  boil  and  it 
will  be  ready  for  use. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  SAUCE. 

Melt  over  a  slow  fire,  in  a  small  teacup  of  water,  half  a  pound  of 
maple  sugar ;  let  it  simmer,  removing  all  scum  ;  add  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  mixed  with  a  level  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one  of  grated 
nutmeg ;  boil  for  a  few  moments  and  serve.  Or  make  a  "hard  sauce  " 
of  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  two  of  sugar. 

MATRIMONY  SAUCE. 

Half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  good  vin- 
egar, three-fourths  of  a  pint  of  water,  nutmeg  grated  in,  and  flour  or 
cornstarch  to  thicken. 

PINE  APPLE  SAUCE. 

Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  butter  and  four  heaping  tablepoonfuls  sugar, 
beaten  white  of  an  tgg ;  flavor  with  pine-apple  (or  any  other  flavoring)^ 


PICKLES.  569 

form  a  pyramid  and  with  the  point  of  a  teaspoon,  mark  it  like  a  pine- 
apple. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 

Take  the  superfluous  juice  from  a  can  of  fruit,  peaches  are  best,  and 
heat  it  to  boiling.  Mix  flour,  butler  and  sugar  in  about  equal  quanti- 
ties, add  a  little  flavoring  and  cook  the  mixture  in  the  hot  peach  juice. 
This  is  delicious  for  any  kind  of  steamed  or  fruit  pudding. 

PLUM  PUDDING  SAUCE. 

One  pint  boiling  water  thickened  with  two  spoonfuls  flour  or  com 
starch,  rubbed  smooth  with  a  little  milk;  a  large  piece  of  butter,  and 
flavor  with  currant  jcUy.  The  liqaor  in  which  the  pudding  has  been 
boiled  is  very  rich,  and  makes  a  good  foundation  for  the  sauce. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Whip  a  pint  of  thick  sweet  cream  ;  add  the  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs,  sweetened  to  taste.  Place  pudding  in  center  of  dish  and  surround 
wjih  the  sauce ;  or  surround  molded  blanc  mange  or  fruit  pudding. 
This  is  also  very  nice  to  be  eaten  on  sponge  cake,  or  put  in  small  dishes 
with  kid) -fingers  in  center  for  dessert  dishes. 


PICKLES. 

SOUR  AND  SWEET. 

When  making  pickles  use  good,  sharp  vinegar,  or  the  pickles  will  be 
insipid.  Ket-p  them  from  the  air  and  see  that  they  are  well  covered 
with  the  vineg  r.  Boil  in  a  porcelain  kettle;  never  in  brass  or  metal. 
Parboil  the  pickles  first,  then  let  them  get  perfectly  cold,  and  pour  on 
the  scalding  hot  vinegar.  A  small  lump  of  alum  dissolved  and  added 
to  the  vinegar  when  scalding  the  first  time  makes  them  crisp  and 
green.  To  make  them  sharp  and  crisp  they  should  be  parboiled 
in  one  vinegar,  and  then  a  second  vinegar  poured  over  them  when  ready 
to  put  in  the  crock.  Keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place,  either  in  stone  or  glass. 
If  put  away  in  stone  jars,  put  a  plate  or  saucer  over  them  so  as  to  keep 
the  pickles  under  vinegar.  If  white  specks  appear  on  the  vinegar,  drain 
off  and  scald,  adding  a  handful  of  sugar  to  each  gallon  of  vinegar. 

Most  people  prefer  their  pickles  highly  spiced  ;  cloves  and  cinnamon 
put  in  bags  are  good  for  this,  also  bits  of  horseradish  and  red  or  green 
peppers.  The  horseradish  helps  to  preserve  the  life  of  the  vinegar,  but 
if  it  will  after  this  persist  in  losing  its  strength,  pour  off  the  old  and 


570  PICKLES. 

replace  by  new,  poured  over  the  pickles  scalding  hot.  Ginger  is  the 
most  healthy  of  all  spices,  cloves  are  the  strongest,  after  these  allspice 
and  cinnamon.  Proportion  these  or  the  pickles  will  be  black  in  color 
and  too  hot  for  the  palate.  Mustard  seed  is  also  an  improvement. 
Never  put  up  pickles  in  anything  that  has  held  grease,  or  do  not  let 
them  freeze ;  if  they  do  they  will  be  entirely  spoiled. 

Sweet  pickles  may  be  made  of  any  fruit  that  can  be  preserved,  includ- 
ing the  rind  of  ripe  cucumbers  or  melons.  The  proportions  of  sugar  to 
vinegar  is  three  pints  to  a  quart.  Make  into  a  syrup  and  pour  over  the 
ripe  fruit.  With  some  fruits  it  is  necessary  that  they  may  be  scalded 
or  steamed  ;  with  others  it  is  not.  Very  ripe  peaches  or  plums  do  not 
need  steaming,  but  pears,  apples,  cucumber  and  melon  rinds  are  better 
steamed  and  the  hot  vinegar  syrup  afterward  poured  over  them.  With 
these  it  is  also  necessary  the  spices  should  be  put  in  bags  or  the  fruit 
will  be  much  discolored.  Crabapples  make  particularly  good  pickles, 
though  many  seem  to  think  only  of  making  them  into  jelly  or  preserves. 

In  making  pickles  use  none  but  the  best  cider  vinegar.  The  vinegar 
should  always  be  two  inches  or  more  above  the  vegetables,  as  it  is  sure 
to  shrink,  and  if  the  vegetables  are  not  thoroughly  immersed  in  pickle 
they  will  not  keep.  They  should  be  examined  every  month  or  two  and 
soft  pieces  removed.  If  there  is  much  tendency  to  soften,  it  is  advisable 
to  strain  off  the  vinegar,  add  to  each  gallon  a  cup  of  sugar,  boil  it  and 
return  it  to  the  pickle  jar  while  hot.  The  occasional  addition  of  a  little 
sugar  keeps  pickles  good  and  improves  them.  Spices  in  pickles  should 
be  used  whole,  slightly  bruised,  but  preferably  not  ground  ;  if  ground 
they  should  be  tied  up  in  thin  muslin  bags.  Most  pickles,  if  well  kept, 
improve  with  age  by  the  vinegar  losing  its  raw  taste  and  the  flavor  ol 
the  spices  improving  and  blending. 

To  strengthen  weak  vinegar,  if  in  pickles,  turn  it  off,  heat  it  scalding 
hot,  put  it  on  the  pickles  and  when  lukewarm  put  in  a  small  piece  o\ 
alum  the  size  of  a  filbert  and  a  brown  paper  four  inches  square  wet 
with  molasses.  If  it  does  not  grow  sharp  in  two  weeks  it  is  past  recov- 
ery and  must  be  thrown  away.  If  in  winter,  freeze  it  and  remove  the  ice 
on  the  surface,  for  the  water  alone  freezes,  leaving  the  vinegar. 

To  keep  up  a  constant  supply  of  vinegar  :  Before  the  barrel  is  quite 
out,  fill  the  barrel  with  one  gallon  of  molasses  to  every  eleven  gallons 
of  soft  water.  This  mixture  will  become  good  vinegar  in  about  three 
weeks.  If  the  barrels  stand  on  end,  there  must  be  a  hole  made  in  the 
top,  protected  with  gauze  to  keep  out  insects.  If  standing  on  the  side, 
the  bung-hole  must  be  left  open  and  similarly  protected. 

A  simple  method  of  pickling  is  to  merely  put  the  articles  into  cold 
vinegar.  This  cold  vinegar  should  be  used  for  those  that  do  not 
require  the  addition  of  spice,  and  such  as  do  not  require  to  be 
softened   by  heat,    such    as   capsicums,    chillies,    nasturtiums,   button 


PICKLES.  571 

onions,  radish  pods,  horseradish,  garlic  and  eschalots.  Half  fill  the 
jars  with  best  vinegar,  fill  them  up  with  the  vegetables,  and  tie  down 
immediately  with  bladder.  These  are  much  better  if  pickled  quite 
fresh  and  all  of  a  size.  The  onions  should  be  dropped  in  the  vmegar  as 
fast  as  peeled;  this* secures  their  color.  The  horseradish  should  be 
scraped  a  little  outside  and  cut  up  in  rounds  half  an  inch  deep.  Bar- 
berries for  garnish ;  gather  fine  full  bunches  before  they  are  quite  ripe, 
pick  away  all  bits  of  stalk  and  leaf  and  injuried  berries  and  drop  them 
in  cold  vinegar ;  they  may  be  kept  in  salt  and  water,  changing  the  brine 
whenever  it  begins  to  ferment,  but  the  vinegar  is  best. 

To  put  up  cucumbers  in  brine :  Leave  at  least  an  inch  of  stem  to 
cucumbers  and  wash  well  in  cold  water.  Make  a  brine  of  salt  and 
water  strong  enough  to  bear  an  ^%%  ;  put  the  cucumbers  in  this  as  they 
are  gathered  each  day  from  the  vines.  Cut  a  board  so  as  to  fit  inside 
of  the  barrel ;  bore  holes  here  and  there  through  it,  and  put  this  board 
on  the  cucumbers  with  a  weight  sufficient  to  keep  it  down.  Each  day 
take  off  the  scum  which  arises.  When  wanted  for  use  take  out  what  is 
necessary  and  soak  them  two  or  three  days,  or  until  the  salt  is  out  of 
them,  and  then  pour  boiling  spiced  vinegar  ov^er  them.  A  red  pepper 
or  two  is  an  improvement  if  one  likes  hot  pickles. 

To  harden  them  after  they  are  taken  out  of  the  brine,  take  a  lump  of 
alum  and  a  horseradish  cut  in  strips  ;  put  this  in  the  vinegar  and  it  will 
make  them  hard  and  crisp.  When  you  wish  to  make  a  few  cucumber 
pickles  quick,  take  good  cider  vinegar ;  heat  it  boiling  hot  and  pour 
it  over  them.     When  cool,  they  are  ready  for  use. 

PICKLED  SWEET  APPLES. 

Take  three  pounds  of  sugar,  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  one-half  ounce  of 
cinnamon,  one-half  ounce  of  cloves  ;  pare  the  apples,  leaving  them 
whole ;  boil  them  in  part  of  the  vinegar  and  sugar  until  you  can  put  a 
fork  through  them  ;  take  them  out,  heat  the  remainder  of  the  vinegar 
and  sugar  and  pour  over  them.  Be  careful  not  to  boil  them  too  long  or 
they  will  break. 

PICKLED  ARTICHOKES. 

Boil  your  artichokes  in  strong  salt  and  water  for  two  or  three  min- 
utes ;  lay  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain ;  when  cold  lay  in  narrow-topped 
jars.  Take  as  much  white  wine  vinegar  as  will  cover  the  artichokes 
and  boil  with  it  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  some  root  ginger  and  a  nutmeg 
grated  fine.     Pour  it  on  hot,  seal  and  put  away  for  use. 

PICKLED  BLACKBERRIES. 

Seven  pounds  of  fruit,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  vinegar, 
one-half  ounce  of  cloves,  one-half  ounce  cassia  buds.     When  the  syrup 


572  PICKLES. 

is  boiling  add  the  berries;  boil  one-half  hour;  skim  out  the  berries, 
boil  down  the  syrup  and  pour  it  over  them. 

PICKLED   BEANS. 

String  and  break  between  each  bean,  wash,  put  on  to  boil,  cook  till 
they  begin  to  burst  open,  take  off,  cool  them,  then  salt  as  if  to  use  fresh, 
pack  away  in  a  stone  jar  or  nice  tub,  add  tolerable  weight ;  then  pre- 
pare a  weak  brine  and  pour  over ;  cover,  and  in  a  few  weeks  they  will 
be  sour. 

PICKLED  BUTTERNUTS  OR  WALNUTS. 

Gather  them  when  soft  enough  to  be  pierced  with  a  pin.  Lay  them 
in  strong  brine  for  five  days  changing  this  twice  in  the  meantime. 
Drain  and  wipe  dry ;  pierce  each  by  running  a  large  darning-needle 
through  it,  and  lay  them  in  cold  water  for  six  hours.  To  each  gallon  of 
vinegar  allow  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  dozen  each  of  whole  cloves  and 
black  pepper  corns,  half  as  much  allspice  and  a  dozen  blades  of  mace. 
Boil  five  minutes  ;  pack  the  nuts  in  small  jars  and  cover  with  the  scald- 
ing vinegar.  Repeat  this  twice  within  a  week ;  tie  up  and  set  away. 
Good  to  eat  in  a  month. 

PICKLED  CABBAGE. 

Select  solid  heads,  slice  very  fine,  put  in  a  jar,  then  cover  with  boiling 
water  ;  when  cold  drain  off  the  water  and  season  with  grated  horse- 
radish, salt,  equal  parts  of  black  and  red  pepper,  cinnamon  and  whole 
cloves. 

SWEET  CABBAGE  PICKLE. 

One  and  a  half  gallons  sliced  cabbage,  three  quarts  of  water,  three- 
fourths  pound  salt,  the  salt  and  water  to  be  boiled  together,  skimmed 
and  poured  over  the  cabbage  while  boiling  hot,  which  will  shrink 
the  cabbage  to  one  gallon.  It  must  be  closely  covered  to  stand  all 
night,  then  dry  by  being  pressed  with  a  coarse  cloth  ;  then  soak  one 
pint  of  chopped  onions,  one-half  gallon  vinegar,  one-half  pint  grated 
horseradish,  one  pod  red  pepper,  one  pound  sugar,  one-half  head  of  gar- 
lic, three  ginger  roots,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  turmeric,  one-half  table- 
spoonful  mustard  seed,  two  pieces  mace,  a  few  grains  black  pepper,  a 
few  cloves.  These  ingredients  are  to  be  mixed  together  in  the  vinegar ; 
the  cabbage  remaining,  must  then  be  put  in  the  mixture  and  the 
whole  put  in  a  stone  jar  and  set  in  a  pot  of  water  and  boiled  about 
four  hours. 

PICKLED  CAULIFLOWERS. 

Take  solid  and  white  cauliflower;  pull  apart  in  bunches,  spread  on 
an  earthen  dish  ;  lay  salt  over  them,  and  let  them  stand  three  days  j 
then  put  into  earthen  jars  and  pour  boiling  salt  and  water  over  them  ; 


PICKLES.  573 

let  them  stand  all  night,  then  drain,  put  into  glass  Jars  and  fill  up  with 
white  vinegar  prepared  the  same  as  for  the  onions. 

f 

SPICED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Select  small,  white,  close  bunches,  boil  in  scalding  brine  three  min- 
utes, drain,  and  sprinkle  thickly  with  salt ;  brush  off  when  dry  ;  cover 
for  two  days  with  cold  vinegar,  setting  the  jar  in  the  sun;  pack  care- 
fully in  glass  jars ;  prepare  and  throw  over  them  scalding  vinegar,  sea- 
soned thus :  To  one  gallon,  one  cup  of  white  sugar,  twelve  blades  of 
mace,  a  tablespoonful  celery  seed,  two  dozen  white  pepper  corns  and 
some  bits  of  red  pepper  pods,  a  tablespoonful  of  coriander  seed  and  the 
same  of  white  mustard.  Boil  five  minutes.  Scald  once  a  week  for 
three  weeks,  tie  up  and  set  away ;  place  a  small  plate  on  top  of  jar 
inside  to  keep  the  cauliflower  under  the  liquid. 

PICKLED  CHERRIES. 

Five  pounds  of  cherries,  stoned — leave  a  few  pits  for  flavoring ;  one 
quart  of  vinegar,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one-half  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one- 
half  ounce  of  cloves,  one-half  ounce  of  mace ;  boil  the  sugar,  vinegar 
and  spices  together  and  pour  hot  over  the  cherries. 

CELERY  PICKLES. 

Take  good  sized  cucumbers,  slice  en  a  vegetable  sHcer  quite  thin  and 
pour  a  weak  brine,  boiling  hot,  over  them  and  let  stand  twenty-four 
hours  ;  then  to  a  gallon  of  vinegar  add  an  ounce  of  white  mustard  seed, 
one  of  celery  seed  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pulverized  alum  ;  boil  and 
turn  over  the  pickles.  Put  in  old  pickle  bottles  and  seal,  or  in  a  jar 
with  a  cloth  over,  rinsing  the  cloth  occasionally. 

CHOPPED  PICKLE. 

One  gallon  green  tomatoes,  four  large  onions,  three  red  peppers  and 
three  green  ones,  leaving  in  a  few  of  the  seeds.  Chop  all  fine  ;  throw 
in  a  big  handful  of  salt ;  mix  well  together  and  let  it  stand  over  night. 
In  the  morning  drain  dry  and  add  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  each  of  black  pepper,  ground  cloves  and  allspice ;  half  a 
pint  of  white  mustard  seed  and  one-quarter  of  an  ounce  of  celery  seed. 
Pour  over  three  pints  of  cider  vinegar,  boiling  hot.  This  is  excellent 
Put  into  jars  or  wide-mouthed  bottles  and  cork  tightly. 

PICKLED  CORN, 

Boil  the  com  on  the  cob  ;  when  cool  cut  it  from  the  cob  ;  place  on 
the  bottom  of  a  jar  a  layer  of  salt  and  a  layer  of  corn  until  the  jar  is 


674  PICKLES. 

full;   cover  with   a  cloth,  board  and  weight;  when  wanted  for  use 
soak  in  water  until  fresh  ;  then  cook  and  it  is  like  fresh  com. 


BOTTLED  CHOW-CHOW. 

Take  fifty  small  pickles,  two  quarts  of  silvef  onions,  two  quarts  of 
green  string  beans,  one  dozen  green  tomatoes,  three  heads  of  cauli- 
flower ;  let  the  onions  stand  in  brine  twelve  hours,  then  peel.  If  the 
beans  are  large,  break  them.  Slice  the  green  tomatoes,  cut  up  the 
cauliflowers;  let  all  stand  in  brine  twenty-four  hours.  To  one  gallon 
of  vinegar  use  one  pound  of  mustard  (common  is  the  best),  mix  it  with 
a  little  vinegar,  and  add  it  to  the  rest.  One  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
oil  of  mustard,  one  tablespoonful  of  cayenne  pepper — use  more  spices  if 
preferred.  Tie  the  spices  in  a  white  cloth,  and  boil  in  the  vinegar, 
before  adding  the  mustard.  It  can  be  put  in  pickle  jars  in  alternate 
layers  ;  fill  three-quarters  full ;  when  filling  the  jars  add  here  and  there 
a  little  red  and  green  pepper ;  fill  up  with  the  mustard  ;   make  air  tight. 

MUSTARD  CHOW-CHOW. 

Two  heads  of  cabbage,  two  heads  of  cauliflower,  one  dozen  cucum- 
bers, six  roots  of  celery,  six  peppers,  one  quart  of  small  white  onions, 
two  quarts  green  tomatoes ;  cut  into  small  pieces  and  boil  each  vege- 
table separately  until  tender,  then  strain  them.  Two  gallons  of  vin- 
egar, one-fourth  pound  of  mustard,  one-fourth  pound  of  mustard  seed, 
one  pot  of  French  mustard,  one  ounce  of  cloves,  two  ounces  of  tur- 
meric ;  put  the  vinegar  and  spices  into  a  kettle  and  let  them  come  to  a 
boil ;  mix  the  vegetables  and  pour  over  the  dressing. 

PICKLED  CUCUMBERS. 

Wash  with  care  the  cucumbers,  and  place  in  jars.  Make  a  weak 
brine  (a  handful  of  salt  to  a  gallon  and  a  half  of  water)  ;  when  scald- 
ing hot  turn  over  the  cucumbers  and  cover ;  repeat  this  process  three 
mornings  in  succession,  taking  care  to  skim  thoroughly.  On  the  fourth 
day  have  ready  a  porcelain  kettle  of  vinegar,  to  which  has  been  added 
a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  walnut.  When  scalding  hot,  put  in  as 
many  cucumbers  as  may  be  covered  with  the  vinegar  ;  do  not  let  them 
boil  but  skim  out  as  soon  as  scalded  through,  and  replace  with  others, 
adding  each  time  a  small  piece  of  alum.  When  this  process  is  through, 
throw  out  the  vinegar,  and  replace  with  good  cider  or  white  wine  vine- 
gar ;  add  spices,  mustard  seed  and  red  pepper.  Sort  the  pickles  and 
place  them  in  stone  or  glass  jars,  turn  over  the  hot  spiced  vinegar ;  seal 
and  put  away  the  jars  not  wanted  for  immediate  use.  Pickles  thus 
prepared  are  fine  and  crisp  at  the  expiration  of  a  year.     Those  that  are 


PICKLES.  575 

kept  in  open-mouth  jars  may  be  covered  with  a  cloth,  which  will  need 
to  be  taken  off  and  rinsed  occasionally. 

SPICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLE. 

Two  dozen  cucumbers,  slice  and  boil  in  vinegar  enough  to  cover ; 
boil  one  hour ;  set  aside  in  the  hot  vinegar.  To  one  gallon  cold  vine- 
gar allow  one  pound  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon, 
ginger,  black  pepper  and  celery  seed,  one  teaspoonful  mace  ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  al  spice  and  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  turmeric,  one  tablespoon- 
ful grated  horseradish,  one  tablespoonful  sliced  garlic,  half  teaspoonful 
cayenne  pepper;  put  in  the  cucumbers  and  stew  two  hours;  it  will  be 
ready  for  use  as  soon  as  cold ;  if  it  is  liked  thicker,  put  in  double  the 
quantity  of  cucumbers. 

RIPE  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Peel  the  cucumbers,  halve  them,  scrape  the  inside  and  soft  part  out 
with  a  silver  spoon,  salt  them  down  for  twelve  hours  ;  wipe  dry  w^ith 
a  towel  and  cut  in  pieces  or  strips  ;  have  a  layer  of  mustard  seed,  cloves 
and  pepper,  then  a  layer  of  cucumbers.  A  piece  of  horseradish  is  an 
add  tion  to  them.  Boil  enough  vinegar  to  cover  all;  pour  on  after  they 
are  cold  ;  after  a  week  boil  some  vinegar  again  and  pour  over  them. 

SLICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLE. 

Gather  the  cucumbers  before  the  seeds  are  very  large  ;  pare  and  throw 
into  ice-cold  water  for  one  hour;  then  slice  as  thin  as  possible,  on  a 
cabbage  cutter ;  sprinkle  well  with  salt;  tie  up  in  a  coarse  cloth  and 
lay  in  a  colander  under  a  heavy  weight  to  drain  over  night.  Next 
morning  mix  through  them  plenty  of  brown  and  white  mustard-seed ; 
pac  k  in  jars  and  cover  well  with  cold  cider  vinegar.  Put  in  a  cool 
pl.ice.  Should  a  while  scum  rise  on  the  vinegar,  draw  it  off  and  boil 
and  skim  well,  or  substitute  other  vinegar.  Pour  it  over  them  cold. 
This  retains  the  flavor  of  the  cucumber. 

EAST  INDIA  PICKLES. 

One-half  peck  sliced  green  tomatoes,  one-half  peck  sliced  white 
onions,  twenty-five  small  cucumbers,  two  cauliflowers  cut  in  small 
branches ;  sprinkle  salt  over  these  plentifully  and  let  stand  twenty-four 
hours,  and  then  drain  well  ;  mix  half  a  cup  of  grated  horseradish  root 
with  half  an  ounce  of  turmeric  (get  at  the  drug  store),  half  an  ounce 
each  of  ground  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one  ounce  of  ground  pepper,  one 
pint  of  ground  mustard  seed,  one  pint  of  brown  sugar,  two  bunches  of 
chopped  celery.  Pat  this  mixture  into  a  porcelain  kettle  in  layers  with 
the  vegetables.     Cover  with  cold  cider  vinegar  and  boil  slowly  for  two 


576  PICKLES. 

hours.  The  turmeric  gives  the  pickles  the  yellow  color  peculiar  to  East 
India  pickles,  and  in  taste  and  appearance  they  cannot  be  distinguished 
from  the  genuine- 

PICKLED  EGGS. 

Sixteen  eggs,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one-half  ounce  of  black  pepper, 
one-half  ounce  of  Jamaica  pepper,  one-half  ounce  of  ginger ;  boil  the 
eggs  twelve  minutes  ;  dip  in  cold  water  and  take  off  the  shell ;  put  the 
vinegar  with  the  pepper  and  vinegar  into  a  stew  pan  and  simmer  ten 
minutes  ;  place  the  eggs  in  a  jar,  pour  over  the  seasoned  vinegar  boil- 
ing hot,  and  when  cold  tie  them  down  with  a  bladder  to  exclude  the 
air ;  ready  for  use  in  a  month. 

ENGLISH  MIXED  PICKLES. 

One-half  peck  of  small,  green  tomatoes,  three  dozen  small  cucum- 
bers, two  heads  of  cauliflower,  one-half  peck  of  tender  string  beans, 
six  bunches  of  celery,  six  green  peppers,  and  a  quart  of  small,  white 
onions.  Chop  the  vegetables  quite  fine,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  stand 
over  night ;  to  six  or  seven  quarts  of  vinegar  add  one  ounce  each  of 
ground  cloves,  allspice  and  pepper,  two  ounces  of  turmeric  and  four 
ounces  of  mustard  seed ;  let  the  vinegar  and  spices  come  to  a  boil,  put 
in  the  vegetables  and  scald  until  tender  and  a  little  yellow. 

FRENCH  PICKLES. 

Slice  a  peck  of  green  tomatoes  and  six  large  onions,  half  pint  salt, 
two  pounds  brown  sugar,  half  pound  white  mustard  seed,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  each  of  ground  allspice,  cloves,  cinnamon,  ginger,  mustard,  one 
teaspoonful  red  pepper,  five  quarts  vinegar,  two  of  water.  Sprinkle  salt 
over  the  tomatoes  and  onions ;  let  stand  over  night,  drain  in  the  morn- 
ing ;  add  the  water  and  one  quart  vinegar.  Boil  the  tomatoes  and 
onions  twenty  minutes  and  drain,  boil  the  four  quarts  of  vmegar  with 
the  other  ingredients  fifteen  minutes  ;  put  in  jars,  pour  over  the  hot 
dressing,  seal  and  keep  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

GERMAN  PICKLES. 

Take  two  or  three  dozen  pickles  (good  sized  ones),  half  a  peck  of 
small  grape  leaves  and  some  dill ;  wash  the  pickles  and  leaves;  take  a 
small  jar  and  lay  in  the  bottom  of  it  a  layer  of  leaves  and  then  of 
pickles,  and  a  little  dill ;  lay  in  alternate  layers ;  make  a  salt  water  brine 
of  very  warm  water,  enough  to  cover  the  pickles  ;  r'n  not  make  it  too 
salty  ;  put  a  plate  in  the  jar,  and  lay  on  it  a  heavy  stone.  In  about  a 
week  the  pickles  will  be  sour. 


PICKLES.  677 


PICKLED  GRAPES. 

Select  small  bunches  of  ripe,  firm  grapes  and*  pack  in  the  jars  in 
which  they  are  to  be  kept.  To  a  quart  of  vinegar,  add  a  half  pound  of 
sugar  ;  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  stick  cinnamon,  and  an  ounce  of  all- 
spice, whole.  Boil,  and  when  cold,  turn  over  the  grapes.  They  will 
keep  without  sealing.  Stone  jars,  holding  a  gallon  each,  may  be  used 
for  these  pickles.  A  piece  of  white  cotton  cloth  should  be  spread  over 
the  clusters,  and  a  plate  placed  on  top,  to  keep  them  under  the  vinegar. 

HODGE  PODGE. 

Slice  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and  let  it 
stand  two  hours,  then  drain  off  the  liquid  and  throw  it  away,  and  to 
the  tomatoes  add  the  following  ingredients :  Half  a  gallon  good  vinegar, 
one  dozen  large  onions  (sliced),  four  large  pods  of  green  pepper 
(minced  tine),  half  pound  of  white  mustard  seed,  quarter  pound  black 
mustard. seed,  and  one  teaspooiiful  each  of  cloves,  mace,  ginger,  black 
pepper,  cinnamon,  and  celery  seed.  It  is  best  to  put  this  pickle  up  in 
small  jars  and  seal.     It  is  ready  for  use  as  soon  as  made. 

INDIA  PICKLE. 

Take  three  quarts  of  vinegar,  quarter  pound  mustard,  half  ounce  of 
black  pepper,  one  ounce  cloves,  one  ounce  allspice,  one  ounce  turmeric, 
one  ounce  ginger,  one  ounc^;  cayenne  pepper,  handful  of  salt  and  the 
same  of  sugar ;  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  When  cold  put  in  the  vege- 
tables, cucumbers,  onions,  cauliflower  cut  up  small,  and  cover  closely. 
If  the  liquid  should  seem  thin  boil  again  and  add  more  mustard  in  three 
weeks  after  making. 

PICKLED  LEMONS. 

Wipe  six  lemons,  cut  each  into  eight  pieces  ;  put  on  them  a  pound  of 
salt,  six  large  cloves  of  garlic,  two  ounces  of  horseradish,  sliced  thin, 
likewise  of  cloves,  mace,  nutmeg  and  cayenne,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
each,  and  two  ounces  of  flour  of  mustard  ;  to  these  add  two  quarts  of 
vinegar  ;  boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  a  well-tinned  saucepan  ;  or,  which 
is  better,  boil  it  in  a  strong  jar,  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water ;  or,  set  the 
jar  on  the  hot  hearth  till  done.  Set  the  jar  by,  and  stir  it  daily  for  six 
weeks ;  keep  the  jar  close  covered.     Put  pickles  into  small  bottles. 

BOTTLED  MIXED  PICKLES. 

Take  equal  quartities  of  onions,  cucumbers,  green  tomatoes,  carrots 

and  cauliflowers ;  cook  them  in  salted  water  until  a  fork  will  go  in  them 

easy,  but  they  must  not  be  soft ;  then  have  hot  vinegar,  with  black  or 

red  peppers  in ;  while  the  pickles  are  hot  lay  them,  a  few  of  each,  alter- 

37 


678  PICKLES, 

nately,  in  the  glass  case  until  full,  then  pour  over  them  hot  peppered 
vinegar,  and  seal.     Be  sure  to  have  the  can  hot  as  for  canning  fruit. 

MIXED  YELLOW  PICKLES. 

Three  hundred  small  cucumbers,  four  green  peppers  sliced  fine,  two 
large  or  three  small  heads  of  cauliflower,  three  heads  of  white  cabbage 
shaved  fine,  nme  large  onions  sliced,  one  large  root  horseradish,  one 
quart  of  green  beans  cut  one  inch  long,  one  quart  of  green  tomatoes 
sliced ;  put  this  mixture  in  a  pretty  strong  brine  twenty-four  hours ; 
drain  three  hours,  then  sprinkle  in  one-fourth  pound  black  and  one- 
fourth  pound  of  white  mustard  seed ;  also  one  tablespoonful  black 
ground  pepper ;  let  it  come  to  a  good  boil  in  just  vinegar  enough  to 
cover  it,  adding  a  little  alum.  Drain  again,  and  when  cold,  mix  in  one- 
half  pint  of  ground  mustard  ;  cover  the  whole  with  good  cider  vinegar  ; 
add  turmeric  enough  to  color,  if  Hked. 

PICKLED  MUSHROOMS. 

Clean  them  with  water  and  flannel,  throw  them  into  boiling  salt  and 
water  in  a  st^ew-pan  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes.  Drain  them  in  a  col- 
ander and  spread  out  on  a  linen  cloth,  covering  them  with  another. 
Put  into  bottles  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  and  fill  up  with  white  vin- 
egar, pouring  some  melted  mutton  fat  on  the  top,  if  intended  to  keep 
long. 

PICKLED  MANGOES. 

Cut  a  round  piece  out  of  the  top  of  small  round  musk  melons  ana 
extract  the  seeds.  Then  tie  the  pieces  on  again  with  a  thread  and  put 
in  a  strong  brine  for  ten  days.  Drain  and  wipe,  put  them  into  a  kettle 
with  nice  leaves  under  and  over  them,  adding  a  small  piece  of  alum  and 
put  over  a  slow  fire  to  green,  keeping  them  tightly  covered.  To  fill, 
make  a  dressing  of  scraped  horseradish,  white  mustard  seed,  mace, 
nutmeg  pounded,  green  ginger  cut  small,  pepper,  turmeric  and  sweet 
oil.  Fill  the  mangoes  with  this  mixture,  putting  a  small  clove  of  garlic 
into  each  one  of  them,  replacing  the  pieces  at  the  opening  and  sewing 
them  in  with  strong  thread.  Put  into  stone  jars  and  pour  boiling 
vinegar  over  them. 

PICKLED  VEGETABLE  MANGOES. 
For  one  dozen  mangoes,  take  one  cup  each  of  white  and  black  mus- 
tard seed,  one  handful  of  horseradish,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cloves, 
mace,  cinnamon,  black  pepper,  celerj-  seed,  and  one  cup  of  sugar; 
mince  a  small  head  of  cabbage  fine  ;  pour  hot  vinegar  over  it  and  let  it 
stand  half  an  hour,  then  drain  off,  and  when  cold,  put  the  mixture 
together,  adding  small  beans  and  cucumbers,  and  till  the  mangoes. 
Place  them  in  the  kettle  with  seam  up,  and  scald  gently  with  vinegar. 


PTCKLES.  579 


MUSTARD  PICKLES. 

Six  green  peppers,  six  quarts  of  small  onions,  six  quarts  of  small 
cucumbers,  six  quarts  of  pickled  cauliflowers,  four  quarts  of  sliced  cucum- 
bers ;  pour  over  this  a  brine,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  to  one  quart  of 
water,  until  all  are  well  covered  ;  let  this  stand  twenty-four  hours ;  drain 
off,  and  they  are  ready  for  the  dressing.  Dressing :  To  each  quart  of 
vinegar,  add  six  tablespoonfuls  of  best  mustard,  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  one-half  ounce  of  turmeric  and  the 
same  of  curry  powder ;  boil  all  together  five  minutes  and  pour  over  the 
pickles.  The  dressing  should  be  the  consistency  of  thick,  sour  cream 
when  cold,  and  if  not,  add  more  flour  and  boil  up  again.  These  pickles 
can  be  kept  in  crocks,  covered  tightly  with  thick  paper.  One  gallon  of 
vinegar  will  make  dressing  enough  for  eight  or  nine  quarts  of  pickles ; 
if  you  have  any.  left  bottle  for  meats.  It  is  an  elegant  salad  dressing, 
or  can  be  used  again  another  year. 

MUSK  MELON  PICKLES. 

Take  them  when  just  ripe ;  pare  and  slice  about  an  inch  and  a  half 
thick ;  put  them  in  alum  water  one  night ;  take  out  and  drain  well  ; 
allow  three  pounds  sugar  to  three  pints  vinegar ;  boil  well  and  skim  ; 
pour  over  the  melons ;  pour  off  the  syrup  and  heat  and  pour  back  nine 
mornings,  the  last  time  add  cinnamon  and  cloves  to  suit  the  taste;  boil 
the  syrup  down  till  just  enough  to  cover  the  pickles. 

SPICED  NUTMEG  MELON. 

Select  melons  not  quite  ripe ;  open,  scrape  out  the  pulp,  peel  and 
slice ;  put  the  fruit  in  a  stone  jar,  and,  for  five  pounds  of  fruit  take  a 
quart  of  vinegar  and  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar ;  scald  vinegar  and 
sugar  together,  and  pour  over  the  fruit ;  scald  the  syrup  and  pour  over 
the  fruit  for  eight  successive  days.  On  the  ninth,  add  one  ounce  of 
stick  cinnamon,  one  of  whole  clov^es  and  one  of  allspice.  Scald  fruit, 
vinegar  and  spices  together,  and  seal  up  in  jars.  This  pickle  should 
stand  two  or  three  months  before  using.  Blue  plums  are  very  nice 
prepared  in  this  v/ay. 

PICKLED  NASTURTIONS. 

Soak  for  three  days  in  strong  salt  and  water ;  then  strain  and  pour 
boiling  vinegar  over  them,  omitting  the  spice. 

PICKLED  ONIONS. 

Select  small  silver-skinned  onions,  remove  with  a  silver  knife  all  the 
outer  skins,  so  that  each  onion  will  be  perfectly  white  and  clean.  Put 
them  into  brine  that  will  float  an  tgg  and  leave  them  for  three  days  ; 


580  PICKLES, 

drain,  place  in  a  jar,  first  a  layer  of  onions  three  inches  deep,  then  a 
sprinkling  of  horseradish,  cinnamon  bark,  cloves,  and  a  little  cayenne 
*  pepper;  repeat  until  the  jar  is  filled,  in  proportion' of  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  cayenne  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  chopped  horseradish  a-nd 
cloves  and  four  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon  bark  to  a  gallon  of  pickles ; 
bring  the  vinegar  to  boiling  point,  add  brown  sugar  in  the  proportion  of 
a  quart  to  a  gallon,  and  pour  hot  over  the  onions. 

SPANISH  PICKLED  ONIONS. 

Cut  onions  into  slices,  put  a  layer  of  them  into  a  jar,  sprinkle  with 
cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  then  add  another  layer  of  onions  and  proceed 
as  before.  Proceed  in  this  way  until  the  jar  is  full,  and  pour  cold  vine- 
gar over  all  till  covered.     They  will  be  fit  for  use  in  a  month. 

PICKLED  PEACHES. 

Take  nice  fair  peaches,  wipe  them  clean  with  a  woolen  cloth  and 
place  th€m  in  a  stone  jar ;  to  seven  pounds  of  fruit  take  three  pounds 
nice  yellow  coffee  sugar,  one  pint  good  cider  vinegar,  three  ounces  cin- 
namon in  sticks,  one  ounce  of  cloves  ;  boil  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices 
together  and  pour  over  the  fruit  while  hot ;  cover  them  and  let  them 
stand  three  days;  pour  off  again;  bring  to  a  boil;  then  put  the  fruit 
and  all  together  and  boil  till  they  are  transparent ;  set  away  in  a  cool, 
dry  place.     Sweet  apples  may  be  pickled  in  same  way. 

PICKLED  PEARS. 

Ten  pounds  of  pears,  three  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar,  one  quart  of 
vinegar,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one  ounce  of  cloves  (ground) ;  put  all 
together  and  boil  till  the  pears  are  tender;  skim  the  pears  out  and  let 
the  syrup  boil  a  half  an  hour  longer. 

PICKLED  PEPPERS. 

Take  large  green  ones  (the  best  variety  is  the  sweet  pepper).  Make 
a  small  incision  at  the  side ;  take  out  all  the  seeds,  being  careful  not  to 
mangle  the  peppers.  Soak  in  brine  that  will  float  an  ^gg  for  two  days, 
changing  the  water  twice.  Stuff  with  chopped  cabbage  and  chopped 
onions,  seasoned  with  mustard  seed  and  spices.  Sew  up  incision,  place 
in  jar  and  cover  with  cold  spiced  vinegar.  Many  cut  off  the  top  of  the 
red  pepper,  then  tie  it  on  again,  and  when  ready  to  be  used  the  top  has 
only  to  be  removed  and  the  pickle  is  ready. 

PEPPER  HASH. 

Equal  proportions  of  green  and  ripe  peppers,  cabbages  and  cucum- 
bers;  mince  them  fine,  separately,  and  then  mix  them  well  together;* 
season  with  horseradish  and  salt ;  cover  with  very  strong  vinegar. 


PICKLES,  581 


PICCALILLI. 


One  peck  ^een  tomatoes,  quarter  peck  sliced  onions — sliced  and 
salted  over  night — one  handful  scraped  horseradish,  ounce  turmeric 
powder,  ounce  each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon,  quarter  pound  whole  pep- 
per, pound  each  of  mustard  seed  and  flour  mustard ;  put  in  a  large  pre- 
serving kettle  alternate  layers  of  tomatoes,  onions,  cauliflower,  sojne 
sliced  green  pickles  which  have  been  cut  up  and  salted  over  night,  also 
one  or  two  green  peppers,  with  all  the  other  ingredients ;  cover  the 
whole  with  vinegar;  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  stirring  carefully 
Pour  off  all  the  water  that  forms  on  the  pickle  when  they  lay  in  the  salt. 

PICKLED  PLUMS. 

Seven  pounds  plums,  four  pounds  sugar,  two  ounces  stick  cinna- 
mon, two  ounces  cloves,  one  quart  vinegar,  and  a  little  mace ;  put  in 
the  jar  first  a  layer  of  plums  then  a  layer  of  spices  alternately,  scald  the 
vinegar  and  sugar  together,  and  pour  it  over  the  plums ;  repeat  three 
times  for  plums  (only  once  for  cut  apples  and  pears) ;  the  fourth  time 
scald  all  together;  put  them  into  glass  jars  and  they  are  ready  for  use. 

PYPER  PICKLES. 

Salt  pickles  down  dry  for  ten  days,  soak  in  fresh  water  one  day ; 
pour  off  water,  place  in  porcelain  kettle,  cover  with  water  and  vinegar 
and  add  one  teaspoonful  pulverized  alum ;  set  over  night  on  a  stove 
which  had  fire  in  it  during  the  day ;  wash  and  put  in  a  jar  with  cloves, 
allspice,  pepper,  horseradish,  onions  or  garlic ;  boil  fresh  vinegar  and 
pour  over  all.     Ready  for  use  in  two  weeks. 

PICKLETTE. 

Take  four  large,  firm  cabbages  chopped  fine,  one  quart  onions  chopped, 
two  quarts  vinegar,  or  enough  to  cover  the  cabbage,  two  pounds  brown 
sugar,  two,tablespoonfuls  each  of  ground  mustard,  black  pepper,  cin- 
namon, turmeric  and  celery  seed,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  allspice, 
mace  and  alum,  pulverized ;  pack  the  cabbage  and  onions  in  alternate 
layers,  with  a  little  salt  between  them  ;  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours  ; 
then  scald  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  together  and  pour  over  the 
cabbage  and  onions  after  draining  them  well ;  do  this  three  mornings 
in  succession  and  on  the  fourth  put  all  over  the  fire  and  boil  five  min- 
utes ;  put  in  jars  and  keep  cool. 

RAGAN  PICKLE. 

Two  gallons  of  cabbage,  sliced  fine  ;  one  gallon  of  chopped  green 
tomatoes ;  twelve  onions,  also  chopped ;  one  gallon  best  vinegar ;  one 
pound  brown  sugar  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper ;  half  an  ounce 


682  PICKLES. 

turmeric  powder ;  one  ounce  celery  seed ;  one  tablespoonful  ground 
allspice ;  one  teaspoonful  ground  cloves ;  one-quarter  pound  white 
mustard ;  one  gill  of  salt.  Boil  all  together,  stirring  well,  for  two 
hours.  Take  fromi  the  fire,  and  add  the  spices  ;  then  put  in  air-tight 
jars.  Set  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  and  this  delicious  pickle  will  keep  all 
winter. 

PICKLED   RAISINS. 

Take  two  pounds  of  large,  fine  raisins  on  the  stems,  add  one  pint  of 
vinegar  and  half  a  pound  of  sugar  ;  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  half  an 
hour. 

SPANISH  PICKLE. 

Four  dozen  large  cucumbers,  four  large  green  peppers,  one-half  peck 
of  onions,  one-half  peck  of  green  tomatoes  ;  slice  the  whole  and 
sprinkle  over  them  one  pint  of  salt ;  allow  them  to  remain  over  night, 
then  drain  them  ;  put  the  whole  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  add  the 
following  ingredients  :  Sliced  horseradish  according  to  judgment,  one 
ounce  of  mace,  one  ounce  of  white  pepper,  one  ounce  of  turmeric,  one 
ounce  of  white  mustard  seed,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  half  an  ounce  of 
celery  seed,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  dry  mustard,  one  and  a  half  pounds 
of  brown  sugar ;  cover  the  whole  with  vinegar  and  boil  one  hour. 

SWEET  FRUIT  PICKLES. 

To  every  seven  pounds  of  fruit  allow  three  and  one-half  pounds  of 
sugar  and  one  pint  of  cider  vinegar,  two  ounces  of  whole  cloves,  two  of 
stick  cinnamon.  This  is  for  peaches,  pears,  apples  or  musk  melons. 
Peaches,  pears  and  apples  should  be  pared  only,  not  divided.  Then  in 
each  stick  two  whole  cloves.  The  cinnamon  should  be  boiled  in  the 
vinegar.  Put  the  prepared  fruit  into  a  stone  jar  and  pour  the  vinegar, 
scalding  hot,  over  it.  Repeat  this,  for  three  mornings.  These  sweet 
pickles  will  be  found  delicious,  and  will  keep  any  length  of  time.  The 
melons  should  be  cut  in  strips,  as  if  to  serve  fresh  on  the  table,  and 
should  not  be  too  ripe.  Simmer  them  thirty  minutes  slowly  in  the  pre- 
pared vinegar,  and  they  will  need  no  further  attention  except  to  keep 
them  closely  covered.      These  will  keep  good  a  year. 

SWEET  VEGETABLE  PICKLES. 

Take  one  peck  of  good  soHd  green  tomatoes,  and  onions  to  suit  the 
taste  and  fancy,  or  five  quarts  of  tomatoes  and  three  of  onions ;  peel  the 
onions  as  for  boiling ;  wash  and  dry  the  tomatoes ;  cut  them  in  thin 
sUces ;  cut  in  small  pieces,  six  large  green  peppers,  carefully  leaving  out 
the  seeds  ;  put  the  slices  in  a  large  pan  and  sprinkle  a  pint  of  fine  salt 
on  them  ;  let  them  stand  about  twenty-four  hours  ;  drain  off  all  the 
liquor,  carefully  pressing  down  the  cover ;  when  they    are  sufficiently 


PICKLES,  583 

drained  put  in  the  preserving  kettle  and  cover  well  with  vinegar,  pre- 
pared thus  :  Ten  or  twelve  ounces  brown  sugar  to  the  quart,  a  table- 
spoonful  each  of  ground  cinnamon  and  cloves,  and  a  spoonful  of 
crushed  white  mustard  seed  ;  boil  well  about  fifteen  minutes,  a«d  put  in 
pots  or  jars. 

TOMATO  CHOWDER. 

A  half-bushel  of  green  tomatoes,  one  dozen  onions,  one  dozen  green 
peppers;  chop  fine;  sprinkle  over  the  mess  one  pint  of  salt  and  let  it 
stand  over  night.  Pour  off  this  bnne  and  cover  with  good  vinegar  ;  let 
it  cook  one  hour  slowly,  then  drain  and  pack  in  a  jar.  Take  two 
pounds  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  of 
allspice,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cloves  and  pepper,  a  half-teacup  of 
ground  mustard,  one  pint  of  grated  horseradish  ;  mix  the  sugar,  spices 
horseradish  and  mustard  with  vinegar  ;  heat  boiling  hot  and  pour  over 
the  other  ingredients  ;  put  in  a  cool  place,  covered  tightly.  This  will 
keep  a  year,  or  longer. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,  one  dozen  sliced  onions  ;  sprinkle  well 
with  salt  and  let  them  stand  until  next  day,  then  drain  them.  Use  the 
following  as  spices :  One  small  box  mustard,  half  an  ounce  black  pep- 
per, one  ounce  of  whole  cloves,  and  one  of  white  mustard  seed.  A  ter- 
Tiate  layers  of  tomatoes,  onions  and  spices  ;  cover  with  vinegar.  Wet 
the  mustard  before  putting  it  in.     Boil  the  whole  twenty  minutes. 

RIPE  TOMATO  PICKLES. 

Take  smooth,  ripe  tomatoes  and  wash  clean  in  cold  water  ;  prick 
them  with  a  coarse  needle ;  lay  compactly  in  a  stone  jar  until  full ;  then 
take  sufficient  pure  cider  vinegar  to  cover;  heat  until  boiling,  then  turn 
over  the  tomatoes ;  have  ready  a  piece  of  foolscap  or  smooth  brown 
paper,  turn  the  white  of  an  ^g^  on  it,  and  see  that  every  part  of  the 
paper  is  covered  with  the  ^g^'^  P^^  it  in  the  jar  {^gg  side  down),  and 
pinch  the  edges  close  and  cover  with  paper  tied  on  tight.  When  cool, 
put  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

CHOPPED  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Chop  green  tomatoes  up  fine  ;  to  about  three  quarts  add  a  scant  cup 
of  salt  put  in  alternate  layers  in  a  stone  jar  and  let  them  stand  over  night ; 
then  drain  off  the  water  that  has  accumulated  ;  cover  them  nearly  or 
quite  with  vinegai,  add  half  an  ounce  of  whole  cloves,  half  an  ounce  of 
celery  seed  and  about  half  a  dozen  small  onions,  chopped  ;  put  the 
whole  over  the  stove  and  let  it  come  to  a  scald  but  not  boil.  They  are 
ready  for  use  when  cold. 


684  POULTRY, 


TO  KEEP  TOMATOES  WHOLE. 

Fill  a  large  stone  jar  with  ripe  tomatoes,  then  add  a  few  whole  cloves 
and  a  little  sugar ;  cover  them  well  with  one-half  cold  vinegar  and  half 
wa.ter  ;  place  a  piece  of  flannel  over  the  jar  well  down  in  the  vinegar, 
then  tie  down  with  paper.  In  this  way  tomatoes  can  be  kept  a  year. 
Should  mildew  collect  on  the  flannel  it  will  not  hurt  ihem  in  the  least. 

PICKLED  TURNIPS. 

Wash  them  clean  before  boiling ;  do  not  pare  them.  If  the  rind  is 
broken  the  juice  escapes.  When  cooked  take  off  the  outside,  slice 
them  like  beets  and  pour  hot  spiced  vinegar  over  them.  They  are  to  be 
eaten  while  newly  cooked  and  warm,  and  are  as  good  as  pickled  beets. 

WATER  MELON  RIND  PICKLES. 
Pare  them  ;  cut   up  the  inside  rind  in  small  squares ;  then  boil  in 
weak  ginger  water  until  tender;  make   a  syrup  of  sugar  and  vinegar 
spiced  with  cloves  and  cinnamon,  and  pour   on  hot  three  successive 
mornings.     Musk  melon  rinds  may  be  pickled  in  the  same  way. 


POULTRY. 

There  are  various  ways  of  deciding  about  the  age  of  poultry.  If  the 
bottom  of  the  breast  bone,  which  extends  down  between  the  legs,  is 
soft,  and  gives  easily,  it  is  a  sign  of  youth ;  if  stiff,  the  poultry  is  old. 
If  young,  the  legs  are  lighter,  and  the  feet  do  not  look  so  hard,  stiff  and 
worn. 

There  is  more  deception  in  geese  than  in  any  other  kind  of  poultry. 
The  above  remarks  are  applied  to  them  ;  but  there  are  other  signs  more 
infallible.  In  a  young  goose,  the  cavity  under  the  wings  is  very  tender ; 
it  is  a  bad  sign  if  you  cannot,  with  very  little  trouble,  push  your  finger 
directly  into  the  flesh.  There  is  another  means  by  which  you  may 
decide  whether  a  goose  be  tender,  if  it  be  frozen  or  not.  Pass 
the  head  of  a  pin  along  the  breast,  or  sides,  and  if  the  goose  be  young^ 
the  skin  will  rip,  like  fine  paper  under  a  knife. 

Something  may  be  judged  concerning  the  age  of  a  goose  by  the  thick- 
ness of  the  web  between  the  toes.  When  young,  this  is  tender  and 
transparent ;  it  grows  coarser  and  harder  with  time. 

Do  not  feed  poultry  for  twenty-four  hours  before  killing ;  cut  the 
throat  or  cut  off  the  head  with  a  very  sharp  knife  or  axe  and  allow  it 
to  hang  head  downward  until  the  blood  has  ceased  to  drip,     The  thor- 


POULTRY.  585 

ough  bleeding  renders  the  meat  white  and  wholesome.  Scald  well  by 
dipping  the  fowl  in  and  out  of  boiling  water,  taking  care  not  to  scald  too 
much  or  the  feathers  will  be  hard  to  pluck.  Pull  the  feathers  from  you 
and  when  the  bird  is  carefully  picked,  remove  all  the  fine  feathers  with 
a  knife;  singe,  but  not  smoke,, over  blazing  paper,  place  on  a  board  and 
with  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  the  legs  a  little  below  the  knee ;  remove  the 
oil-bag  above  the  tail ;  take  out  the  crop,  by  making  a  slit  at  the  front 
of  the  neck,  taking  care  that  everything  pertaining  to  the  crop  is 
removed  ;  cut  the  neck-bone  ofT  close  to  the  body,  leaving  the  skin  a 
good  length  to  be  stuffed ;  cut  around  the  rent,  cut  a  slit  three  inches 
long  from  the  tail  upwards,  being  careful  to  cut  only  through  the  skin, 
put  in  the  finger  at  the  breast  and  detach  all  the  intestines,  taking  care 
not  to  burst  the  gall-bag,  for  if  broken,  no  washing  can  remove  the  bit- 
ter taint  left  on  every  spot  it  touches,  put  in  the  hand  at  the  incision 
near  the  tail  and  draw  out  carefully  all  intestines ;  trim  off  the  fat  from 
the  breast  and  at  the  lower  incision  ;  slip  the  gizzard  and  take  out  the 
outside  and  inside  lining  ;  wash  the  fowl  thoroughly  in  col-d  water  twice 
(or  wipe  carefully  with  a  wet  cloth  and  then  with  a  dry),  then  hang  up 
to  drain,  and  it  is  ready  for  cooking. 

Make  the  dressing,  and  fill  the  breast  first,  but  not  too  full  or  it  will 
burst  in  cooking ;  stuff  the  body  rather  fuller  than  the  breast ;  sew  up 
both  openings  with  strong  thread  and  sew  the  skin  of  the  neck  down 
upon  the  breast,  not  forgetting  to  remove  the  threads  before  sending  to 
the  table.  Lay  the  poin-ts  of  the  wings  under  the  back  and  fasten 
them  in  that  position  with  a  skewer  run  through  both  wings  or  tie 
dov^n  with  a  piece  of  twine ;  press  the  legs  as  closely  toward  the  breast 
and  sidebones  as  possible,  and  fasten  with  a  skewer  run  through  the 
body  and  both  thighs,  or  tie  with  twine.  After  this  is  done,  rub  thor- 
oughly with  salt  and  pepper. 

Chickens  and  turkeys  are  dressed  and  stuffed  in  the  same  manner. 
Those  that  are  a  little  tough  or  old  are  greatly  improved  by  a  few 
moments'  steaming  before  they  are  roasted  or  boiled.  Roast  chickens 
require  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  or  till  nicely  browned.  The  giblets — 
liver,  heart  and  gizzard — after  being  carefully  washed  and  soaked  in 
salt  and  water,  are  cooked  and  then  minced  fine  and  used  for  the  gravy, 
or  may  be  cooked  and  served  with  the  fowl.  When  very  )0ung 
chickens  are  to  be  baked,  or  broiled,  they  should  be  cut  open  at  the 
side  of  the  backbone,  pressed  apart,  cleaned  as  above  directed,  and 
pla:ed  on  broiler  or  in  dripping  pan,  with  the  meat  side  downward  and 
butter  them,  or  fowls  may  be  larded  in  the  same  way  as  game  (hereto- 
fore described  in  game),  or  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  may  be  put  in  bits 
over  the  breast. 

To  roast;  place  in  an  oven  rather  hot  at  first,  and  then  graduated  to 
moderate  heat  until  nearly  done.  To  test  this  insert  a  fork  between  the 
thigh  and  body;  if  the  juice  is  watery  and  not  bloody  it  is  done.     Fowls 


686  POULTRY. 

are  roasted  upon  dripping  pans,  with  a  wire  rack  or  small  rings  placed  on 
the  bottom  of  pan.  Some  put  fowls  to  roast  in  a  dry  pan,  using  the 
drippings  for  basting,  and  others  put  in  a  little  water.  ■  In  roasting  a 
turkey  allow  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound  and  twenty  minutes  longer. 
If  poultry  cannot  be  served  immediately  it  is  done,  it  may  be  kept  hot 
without  drying  up  by  placing  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  laying 
a  dripping  pan  over  it. 

In  broiling  chickens,  it  is  difficult  to  do  the  inside  of  the  thickest 
pieces  without  scorching  the  outside.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  parboil  them 
about  ten  minutes  in  a  spider  or  skillet,  covered  close  to  keep  the  steam 
in ;  then  put  them  upon  the  gridiron,  broil  and  butter ;  cover  them 
with  a  plate,  while  on  the  gridiron.  They  may  be  basted  with  a  very 
little  of  the  water  in  which  they  were  broiled ;  and  if  you  like  melted 
butter  to  pour  upon  the  chicken,  the  remainder  of  the  liquor  will  be 
good  used  for  that  purpose. 

An  hour  is  enough  for  common  sized  chicken  to  roast.  A  smart  fire 
is  better  than  a  slow  one  ;  but  they  must  be  tended  closely.  Slices  of 
bread,  buttered,  salted  and  peppered,  put  into  the  stomach  (not  the 
crop)  are  excellent. 

Chickens  should  boil  about  an  hour.  If  old,  they  should  boil  longer, 
in  as  little  water  as  will  cook  them.  Have  the  water  hot  unless  wanted 
for  soup  and  then  put  them  in  cold.  Skim  when  it  boils  up  first,  and 
keep  it  just  above  the  boiling  point,  but  it  must  boil  gently,  not  vio- 
lently. A  little  vinegar  added  to  the  water  in  which  fowls  are  boiled 
makes  them  more  tender. 

Many,  in  making  meat  or  fish  pies,  line  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with 
crust,  and  place  in  the  oven  until  well  "  set,"  then  line  the  sides,  fill, 
cover  and  bake  ;  it  is  difficult  to  bake  the  crust  on  bottom  of  dish,  unless 
this  plan  is  followed.  A  still  better  plan  is  to  use  no  bottom,  lining 
only  the  sides  of  the  pan. 

The  garnishes  for  turkey,  chicken  and  duck,  are  slices  of  lemon, 
horseradish,  fried  sausages  or  force  meat  balls,  parsley,  fried  oysters  and 
thin  slices  of  ham. 

DRESSING  FOR  CHICKEN  OR  TURKEY. 
Two  cups  of  finely  crumbed  stale  bread  (baker's  is  best),  half  a  cup 
of  finely  chopped  beef  suet,  two  tablespoonfuls  chopped  parsley  (dried 
will  do),  one  teaspoonful  each  of  thyme  and  marjoram,  a  little  shred 
lemon  peel  and  grated  nutmeg.  Moisten  with  a  beaten  ^g^,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  This  is  sufficient  for  a  chicken  ;  it  will  take  double  the 
quantity  for  a  turkey,  and  is  equally  good  for  veal.  Or,  take  dry  pieces 
of  bread  or  crackers,  chop  them  fine,  put  in  a  small  piece  of  butter  or  a 
little  cream,  with  sage,  pepper  and  salt,  one  ^gg  and  a  small  quantity 
of  flour,  moistened  with  milk. 


POULTRY,  687 

DRESSING  FOR  GEESE  OR  DUCKS. 

Two  ounces  onions,  one  ounce  green  sage  leaves,  one  ounce  of  pecans 
or  walnuts,  chopped  fine ;  a  sprig  of  fennel,  thyme  or  a  bay  leaf ;  four 
ounces  toasted  bread  crumbs  (made  by  putting  crusts  in  an  oven  and 
when  thoroughly  brown  and  dry  grating  them),  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  the  yolk  of  one  ^%g  well  beaten,  a  minced  apple,  one  dozen  raw 
oysters,  one  or  two  bird  peppers,  black  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  a  few 
mushrooms  and  a  truffle  or  two,  chopped  fine,  adds  to  the  delicious 
flavor. 

CAMP  WAY  OF  COOKING  FOWLS. 

Kill  the  fowl  (no  matter  what  kind  it  may  be)  by  cutting  off  the  head  ; 
hang  up  by  the  feet  till  free  from  blood ;  then  carefully  remove  all  the 
entrails  and  crop ;  use  no  water  in  the  operation,  save  upon  your  hands 
before  commencing ;  be  careful  not  to  remove  or  disturb  the  feathers  ; 
stuff  the  fowl  with  ordinary  stuffing ;  then  wrap  the  body  up  in  wet 
brown  paper  and  roast  in  the  ashes  of  the  fire  as  you  would  potatoes 
till  done.  The  time  consumed  in  roasting  will  depend  on  the  age  and 
kind  of  fowl.  There  is  no  danger  of  burning,  if  properly  attended  to, 
and  better  be  overdone  than  rare.  When  you  think  the  fowl  sufficiently 
done,  take  out  of  the  embers  and  unroll  carefully ;  remove  the  feathers 
and  skin  together;  place  upon  a  large  dish  and  carry  to  the  table.  A 
sweeter  fowl  was  never  eaten. 

BREAKFAST  DISH. 

A  nice  cold  breakfast  dish  is  to  take  a  fowl  and  cut  it  up,  or  take  the 
remnants  of  a  fowl  from  dinner,  put  a  few  slices  of  bacon  between  the 
layers  and  put  the  whole  in  a  baking  dish ;  flavor  v/ith  pepper,  salt  and 
some  parsley ;  then  add  jelly  to  the  top  made  from  gelatine,  which  can 
be  done  by  dissolving  it  with  boiling  water.  Leave  this  covered  for 
half  an  hour  or  three-quarters  in  the  oven,  and,  when  done,  trim  with 
parsley. 

TO  DRESS  COLD  FOWL. 

Take  the  remains  of  a  cold  fowl,  remove  the  skin,  then  the  bones, 
leaving  the  flesh  in  as  large  pieces  as  possible;  dredge  with  flour,  and 
fry  a  light  brown  in  butter ;  toss  it  up  in  a  good  gravy  well  seasoned 
and  thickened  with  butter  rolled  in  flour;  serve  hot  with  bits  of  toasted 
bread. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKENS. 

Cut  the  chickens  in  the  back,  lay  them  flat  in  a  dripping  pan  with  one 
cup  of  water ;  let  them  stew  in  the  oven  until  they  begin  to  get  tender, 
take  them  out  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  rub  together  one  and 
and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  butter  ;  spread 


58S  POULTRY, 

all  over  the  chicken ;  put  back  in  the  oven,  baste  well  and  when  tender 
and  nicely  browned  take  out  of  the  dripping  pan ;  mix  with  the  gravy 
in  the  pan  one  cup  of  thickened  milk  with  a  little  flour ;  put  on  the 
stove  and  let  it  scald  up  well  and  pour  over  the  chickens;  parsley 
chopped  fine  is  a  nice  addition  to  the  gravy. 

CHICKEN  FOR  TEA. 

Boil  a  chicken  (or  chickens)  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  until  the 
meat  falls  from  the  bones.  Chop  the  meat  fine  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Put  into  the  bottom  of  a  mold  some  sHces  of  hard  boiled 
eggs,  then  a  layer  of  the  chopped  chicken,  another  of  t^g,  then  chicken 
until  the  mold  is  nearly  full.  Boil  down  the  water  in  which  the  chicken 
was  cooked  with  a  large  pinch  of  gelatine  moss — until  about  a  cup  and 
a  half  full  is  left — season  and  strain  through  a  very  coarse  net  and  pour 
over  the  mold  of  chicken.  Let  it  stand  over  night  or  all  day  near  the 
ice — to  be  sliced  down  for  supper  and  garnished  with  celery  tops  or 
parsley. 

CHICKEN  CHEESE. 

Boil  two  chickens  in  merely  water  enough  to  make  them  tender ; 
take  them  out  when  done ;  remove  all  the  bones  ;  mince  the  meat  very 
line ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  return  them  to  the  water 
in  which  they  were  boiled ;  cook  until  the  liquid  is  nearly  gone ;  pour 
into  a  deep  dish  ;  lay  a  plate  over  it ;  put  on  a  weight  and  set  away  in 
a  cool  place.  When  ready  to  be  eaten  cut  it  in  slices  and  it  will  be  as 
firm  as  cheese,  and  is  very  nice  for  a  Sunday  evening  tea. 

FRICASSEED  CHICKEN,  WITH  GREEN  CORN. 

Cut  the  green  corn  from  the  cob,  put  it  in  the  pot,  with  water  enough 
to  cover  it,  let  it  stew  until  it  is  nearly  done ;  then  cut  up  the  chicken, 
put  it  with  the  corn  and  let  them  stew  together  about  half  an  hour ; 
put  in  a  few  whole  grains  of  pepper,  with  a  teacup  of  cream  or  milk ; 
thicken  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  stirred  with  a  lump  of  butter ; 
add  the  salt  last. 

FRIED  CHICKEN. 

Fry  some  fat  slices  of  salt  pork  until  the  grease  is  extracted,  but  not 
until  it  browns.  Wash  and  cut  up  a  young  chicken  of  broiling  size. 
soak  it  in  salt  and  water  half  an  hour,  wipe  dry,  season  with  pepper, 
dredge  with  flour  and  fry  in  the  hot  fat  to  a  rich  brown.  Set  aside  in  a 
hot,  covered  dish.  Pour  into  the  gravy  left  in  the  pan,  a  cup  of  cream, 
or  rich  milk ;  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  the  same  of  butter, 
and  add  a  little  chopped  parsley ;  boil  up  and  pour  over  the  chicken. 


POULTRY.  589 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

One  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  one  tablespoonful  summer  savory,  three 
cups  of  finely-chopped  cooked  chicken  meat,  two  ounces  of  butter,  half 
cup  of  sifted  flour,  five  eggs ;  stir  flour  and  butter  to  a  smooth  paste ; 
boil  milk,  salt  and  summer  savory  together ;  add  butter,  flour,  meat  and 
eggs,  well  beaten ;  cook  all  together  a  few  minutes  and  set  to  cool ; 
when  cold  form  in  balls  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  to  a  delicate  brown ; 
serve  hot. 

SOUTHERN  CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Take  some  cold  chicken,  and  havmg  cut  the  flesh  from  the  bones, 
mince  it  small  with  a  little  suet  and  parsley ;  adding  sweet  marjoram 
and  grated  lemon  peel ;  season  it  with  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg ;  mix 
the  whole  well ;  pound  it  to  a  paste  in  a  marble  mortar,  putting  in  a 
little  at  a  time,  and  moistening  it  frequently  with  yolk  of  ^g%  that  has 
been  beaten.  Then  divide  it  into  equal  portions,  and  having  floured 
your  hands,  make  it  up  in  the  shape  of  pears,  sticking  the  head  of  a 
clove  into  the  bottom  of  each  to  represent  the  blossom  end,  and  the 
stock  of  a  clove  into  the  top  to  look  like  the  stem.  Dip  them  in  beaten 
yolk  of  &^^  with  a  little  water  and  then  into  bread  crumbs  grated  fine, 
and  fry  in  lard  as  you  do  fritters.  Fry  some  parsley  in  the  lard,  cover 
the  bottom  of  a  dish  with  it,  lay  the  croquettes  on  it  and  send  to  table 
as  a  side  dish. 

PRESSED   CHICKEN. 

Take  one  or  two  chickens,  boil  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  with  a 
little  salt,  and  when  thoroughly  done,  take  all  the  meat  from  the  bones, 
removing  the  skin,  and  keeping  the  light  meat  separate  from  the  dark ; 
chop  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Take  a  crock  or  pan, 
put  in  a  layer  of  light  and  a  layer  of  dark  meat  till  all  is  used ;  add  the 
liquor  it  was  boiled  in,  which  should  be  about  one  teacupful,  and  put 
on  a  heavy  weight.  When  cold,  cut  in  slices.  Many  chop  all  the  meat 
together,  with  one  pound  of  crackers  added  to  the  liquor  it  was  boiled 
in  ;  then  chop  all  thoroughly  together  before  putting  in  the  mold.  Tur- 
key can  be  prepared  the  same  way,  sliced  instead  of  chopping. 

BAKED  DUCK. 

To  cook  a  duck  satisfactorily  boil  it  first,  until  tender ;  this  can  be 
determined  by  trying  the  wing,  as  that  is  always  the  tough  part  of  a  fowl. 
When  tender  take  out,  rinse  in  clean  water,  stuff  and  put  it  in  the 
oven  for  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  basting  often. 

BRAISED  DUCKS. 

Prepare  the  ducks  exactly  like  chickens  for  the  dressing,  which  should 
be  seasoned  with  butter,  sage  and  onions,  as  well  as  salt  arid  pepper. 


690  POULTRY. 

Put  them  in  a  pot  with  some  chopped  onions,  a  little  butter,  and  water 
enough  to  steam.  Let  them  stew  gently  with  the  lid  on,  and  then  let 
the  water  evaporate  and  then  brown  them.  Serve  with  green  peas 
and  jelly. 

FRCIASSEED  DUCK. 

Cut  the  duck  into  four  quarters ;  chop  an  onion  fine,  and  put  all  into 
a  pot ;  cover  with  water,  and  add  more  as  it  boiis  away.  Stir  a  little 
celery  seed,  or  celery  chopped  up  fine,  three  or  four  strips  of  salt  pork, 
and  when  nearly  done  add  a  tablespoonful  of  Worcester  sauce.  Build 
a  mound  of  mashed  potatoes  around  your  dish  and  carefully  lay  the 
contents  of  the  fricassee  in  the  center.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
This  m.akes  a  juicy  and  delicious  dish. 

ROAST  GOOSE. 
Make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  onions  and  potatoes  cut  fine.  Sea- 
son with  pepper,  salt,  sage,  and  butter  the  size  of  an  ^gg.  Fill  the 
goose  and  tie  down  the  wings ;  roast  two  hours  and  a  half.  Boil  the 
liver  and  heart  and  add  to  the  gravy,  which  must  be  thickened  with 
flour.     Send  to  table  with  apple  sauce  and  mashed  potatoes. 

ROAST  TURKEY. 

Wash,  dry  and  stuff  with  a  dressing  of  dry  bread,  soaked  in  water, 
pressed  out  and  mixed  with  salt,  pepper,  thyme,  butter  and  an  ^gg. 
Sew  up  the  turkey  snugly,  and  put  in  a  pan  with  a  little  water ;  roast 
slowly,  allowing  three  hours  for  a  ten-pound  turkey.  When  commenc- 
ing to  brown,  rub  over  with  a  little  butter  to  keep  the  skin  from  blis- 
tering ;  boil  giblets  in  water,  chop  fine  and  put  in  gravy. 

BONED  TURKEY. 

With  a  sharp  knife  slit  the  skin  down  the  back,  and  raising  one  side 
at  a  time  with  the  fingers,  separate  the  flesh  from  the  bones  with  knife 
until  the  wings  and  legs  are  reached.  These  unjoint  from  the  body, 
and,  cutting  through  to  the  bone,  turn  back  the  flesh  and  remove  the 
bones.  When  bones  are  removed,  the  flesh  may  be  re-shaped  by  stuff- 
ing. Many  leave  the  bones  in  the  legs  and  wings,  as  they  are  most 
difficult  to  remove.  Stuff  with  force-meat  made  of  cold  lamb  or  veal, 
and  a  little  pork  chopped  fine,  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  sage  or 
savory,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon ;  sew  into  shape,  turn  ends  of  wings 
under,  and  press  the  wings  close  to  the  back,  and  tie  all  firmly,  so  that 
the  upper  surface  may  be  plump  and  smooth  for  the  carver.  Lard 
with  two  or  three  rows  on  the  top,  and  bake  until  thoroughly  done, 
basting  often  with  salt  and  water  and  a  little  butter.  Carve  across  in 
shces  and  serve  with  jelly,  cranberries,  or  tomato  sauce. 


FRESER  VES  AND  MARMALADES.  591 

SCALLOPED  TURKEY. 

Cut  the  meat  from  the  bones  of  a  cold  turkey,  remove  the  skin  and 
gristle,  and  chop  the  meat  fine ;  put  on  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  dish  a 
layer  of  cracker  crumbs,  moisten  with  milk,  then  spread  a  layer  of  the 
minced  turkey  with  bits  of  the  stuffing,  pepper,  salt  and  small  pieces  of 
butter;  then  another  layer  of  crackers,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish  is 
nearly  full.  Before  puttmg  on  the  upper  crust  pour  in  the  gravy  left 
from  the  turkey,  cover  with  a  crust  of  cracker  crumbs  soaked  in  milk, 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  beaten  up  light  with  two  eggs  ; 
spread  it  over  the  top  and  bake  well. 

TO  STUFF  TURKEYS  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Cut  one  dozen  small  gashes  in  the  fleshy  part  of  the  turkey,  on  the 
outside,  and  in  different  places,  and  press  one  whole  oyster  in  each  gash  ; 
then  close  the  skin  and  flesh  over  each  oyster  as  tightly  as  possible. 
Stuff  the  inside  of  the  turkey  as  usual. 

TURKEY  PATTIES. 

Mince  part  of  the  breast  fine,  season  with  salt,  nutmeg,  grated  lemon, 
white  pepper  and  a  little  butter  warmed  ;  fill  the  patties  and  bake. 


PRESERVES  A:^^D  MARMALADES. 

One  great  defect  in  preserving  fruits  is  overboiling ;  of  course  they 
must  be  done  through,  but  strawberries  and  the  small  fruits,  such  as 
raspberries,  are  spoiled  if  more  than  slightly  cooked.  Over  sugaring  is 
quite  as  great  a  defect  as  overboiling.  Pound  for  pound  of  sugar  to 
fruit  is  hardly  a  good  rule  to  go  by,  because  it  differs  so  entirely  in 
sweetness.  For  currants  and  plums  this  amount  may  be  used,  but  for 
other  fruits  the  sweetness  becomes  cloying.  A  fair  rule  in  preserving 
sliced  or  whole  fruit  is  to  make  a  syrup  of  one  and  one-half  pounds  of 
sugar  to  one  of  water,  which  in  volume  should  be  once  and  a  half  more 
than  that  of  the  fruit. 

The  following  tables  gives  the  time  or  number  of  minutes  that  each 
kind  of  fruit  should  be  boiled  :  Boil  cherries  moderately  five  minutes  ; 
boil  raspberries  moderately  six  minutes  ;  boil  blackberries  moderately 
six  minutes  ;  boil  plums  moderately  ten  minutes  ;  boil  strawberries 
moderately  eight  minutes  ;  boil  whortleberries  five  minutes  ;  boil  pie 
plant,  sliced,  ten  minutes;  boil  small  sour  pears,  whole,  thirty  minutes; 


592  FRESER  VES  AND  MARMALADES. 

boil  Bartlett  pairs,  in  halves,  twenty  minutes  ;  boil  peaches,  in  halves, 
eight  minutes  ;  boil  peaches,  whole,  fifteen  minutes  ;  boil  pineapples, 
sliced  half  an  inch  thick,  fifteen  minutes ;  boil  Siberian  or  crab  apples, 
whole,  twenty-five  minutes  ;  boil  sour  apples,  quartered,  ten  minutes ; 
boil  ripe  currants  six  minutes  ;  boil  wild  grapes  ten  minutes  ;  boil 
tomatoes  twenty  minutes.  The  amount  of  sugar  to  a  quart  jar  should 
be — For  cherries,  six  ounces ;  for  raspberries,  four  ounces  ;  for  Lawton 
blackberries,  six  ounces  ;  for  field  blackberries,  six  ounces  ;  for  straw- 
berries, eight  ounces  ;  for  whortleberries,  four  ounces  ;  for  quinces,  ten 
ounces  ;  for  small  sour  pears,  whole,  eight  ounces  ;  for  wild  grapes, 
eight  ounces ;  for  peaches,  four  ounces  ;  for  Bartlett  pears,  six  ounces  ; 
for  pineapples,  six  ounces  ;  for  Siberian  or  crab  apples,  eight  ounces ; 
for  pie  plant,  ten  ounces  ;  for  sour  apples,  quartered,  six  ounces  '  for 
ripe  currants,  eight  ounces  ;  for  plums,  eight  ounces. 

When  fruit  which  is  white  and  clear  in  color  is  wanted  as  a  preserve, 
such  as  quinces  or  pears,  the  whole  operation  must  be  carried  on  as 
rapidly  as  possible.  Everything  must  be  ready.  Just  as  soon  as  the 
fruit  is  pa-red  or  sliced  it  must  at  once  be  cooked.  The  contents  in  a 
jar  cannot  be  too  hot.  A  very  easy  method  of  doing  this  is  to  place  the 
clean  jars,  when  empty,  in  a  vessel  of  water  which  is  kept  on  the  full 
boil  while  the  fruit  is  being  introduced  into  these  jars  from  the  pre- 
serving kettle.  To  take  the  hot  fruit  from  one  vessel  to  the  other  with- 
out this  precaution  is  to  run  a  useless  risk.  Take  out  the  jar  from  the 
boiling  water  containing  the  preserve  just  as  rapidly  as  possible,  and 
when  it  is  piping  hot  screw  on  the  lid.  Many  think  that  a  crust  of 
mold  found  on  the  top  of  a  preserve  does  no  harm,  as  it  can  be  removed. 
Moldy  preserves  are  not  always  ruined,  but  it  gives  a  bad  taste  to  the 
preserves.  A  sure  prevention  of  mold  is  to  take  white  of  an  €:gg  and 
wet  slightly  both  sides  of  a  piece  of  letter  paper,  sufficiently  large  to 
cover  over  the  top  of  the  preserves  snug]} . 

Plums  and  fruit  of  which  the  skin  is  liable  to  be  broken  do  better  to 
be  put  in  little  jars,  with  their  weight  of  sugar,  and  the  jars  set~si  a  ket- 
tle of  boiling  water  till  the  fruit  is  done.  See  that  the  water  is  not  high 
enough  to  boil  into  the  jars.  When  you  put  preserves  in  jars  lay  a 
white  paper,  thoroughly  wet  with  brandy,  flat  upon  the  surface  of  the 
preserves,  and  cover  them  carefully  from  the  air.  If  they  begin  to  mold 
scald  them  by  setting  them  in  the  oven  till  boiling  hot.  Glass  is  much 
better  than  earthen  ware  for  preserves ;  they  are  not  half  as  apt  to  fer- 
ment. 

In  making  marmalades,  if  put  up  in  small  quantities  and  for  immediate 
use,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit  is  suffi- 
cient ;  but  if  desirable  to  keep  them  longer,  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  fruit  is  a  better  proportion.  As  in  preserves,  the  best  sugar  should 
be  used.     Put  up  in  tumblers  or  small  jars. 


PRESER  VES  AND  MARMALADES.  593 


APPLE  PRESERVES. 

Weigh  equal  quantities  of  good  brown  sugar  and  of  apples  ;  peel,  core 
and  mince  them  small;  boil  the  sugar,  allowing  to  every  three  pounds 
a  pint  of  water;  skim  it  well  and  boil  it  pretty  thick;  then  add  the 
apples,  the  grated  peel  of  one  or  two  lemons,  and  two  or  three  pieces  of 
white  ginger.  Boil  till  the  apples  look  clear  and  yellow.  This  preserve 
will  keep  for  years. 

BARBERRY  PRESERVES. 

Few  are  aware  that  barberries  preserved  in  common  molasses  are 
very  good  for  common  use,  Boil  the  molasses,  skim  it,  throw  in  the 
barberries  and  simmer  until  they  are  soft.  If  you  wish  to  lay  by  a  few 
for  sickness,  preserve  them  in  sugar.  Melt  the  sugar,  skim  it,  throw 
in  the  barberries ;  when  done  soft,  take  them  out  and  throw  in  others. 
For  preserving,  the  sugar  should  be  melted  over  a  fire  moderate  enough 
not  to  scorch  it.  When  melted  it  should  be  skimmed  clean  and  the 
iruit  dropped  in,  to  simmer  until  it  is  soft. 

CHERRY  PRESERVES. 

Common  sour  cherries  are  best ;  stone  and  take  pound  of  sugar  to 
pound  of  fruit ;  take  half  of  your  sugar  and  sprinkle  over  the  fruit,  let  it 
stand  about  an  hour,  pour  into  a  preserving  kettle,  boil  slowly  ten  min- 
utes, skim  out  the  cherries ;  add  remainder  of  sugar  to  the  syrup  ;  boil, 
skim  and  pour  over  the  cherries ;  the  next  day  drain  off  the  syrup,  boil, 
skim,  add  the  cherries,  boil  twenty  minutes  and  seal  up  in  small  jars. 

CURRANT  PRESERVES. 

Ten  pounds  currants,  seven  pounds  sugar.  Take  the  stems  from 
seven  pounds  of  the  currants,  and  press  the  juice  from  the  other  three 
pounds.  When  the  juice  and  sugar  are  made  into  a  hot  syrup,  put  in 
the  currants  and  boil  until  thick  and  rich. 


BLACK  CURRANT  PRESERVES. 

Gather  the  currants  upon  a  dry  day ;  to  every  pound  allow  half  a 
pint  af  red  currant  juice  and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  finely  pounded  loaf 
sugar.  With  scissors  clip  off  the  heads  and  stalks ;  put  the  juice,  cur- 
rants and  sugar  in  a  preserving  pan ;  shake  it  frequently  till  it  boils ; 
carefully  remove  the  fruit  from  the  sides  of  the  pan  and  take  ofT  the 
scum  as  it  rises  ;  let  it  boil  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  This  preserve  is 
excellent. 

38 


594  PRESER  VES  AND  MARMALADES. 

CITRON  PRESERVES. 

Peel  and  cut  the  citron  in  pieces  an  inch  square,  boil  in  weak  alum 
water  until  soft,  drain  off  ihe  water  and  add  one  pound  of  sugar  to  each 
pound  of  citron  ;  to  every  five  pounds  of  the  preserve  add  one  pound  of 
raisins  and  one  lemon  sliced ;  dissolve  sugar ;  when  hot  add  the  fruit, 
and  simmer  slowly  for  one  hour.  The  raisins  may  be  left  out,  if  pre- 
ferred. 

CANTELOPE  RIND  PRESERVES. 

Keep  the  rinds  of  cantelopes  or  watermelons  in  strong  brine  until  you 
wish  to  preserve  them ;  then  boil  in  fresh  water  until  the  salt  is 
removed.  Soak  or  boil  a  short  time  in  weak  alum  water,  then  boil 
again  in  fresh  water  until  there  is  no  taste  of  alum  left.  Make  a  lich 
syrup  of  two  pounds  of  white  sugar  to  each  of  rind.  When  the  syrup  has 
boiled  until  well  clarified,  drop  the  rind  in,  and  boil  an  hour.  Lemon 
flavoring  may  be  added  and  a  few  drops  of  citric  acid  to  prevent  sugar- 
ing. 

FIG  PRESERVES. 

Take  weight  of  ripe  figs  in  sugar,  the  peel  of  one  lemon  and  juice  of 
two,  to  five  or  six  pounds  of  figs.  Let  the  figs  soak  in  cold  water  twelve 
hours,  then  simmer  in  water  until  tender,  take  them  out  and  drain.  To 
each  pound  of  sugar  add  a  teacup  of  cold  water ;  boil  and  skim  until 
clear.  Put  in  the  figs  and  simmer  ten  minutes.  Take  out  the  figs  and 
spread  them  in  the  sun  for  a  short  time,  while  you  add  the  juice  and 
peel  of  the  lemons  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  ginger  to  the  syrup,  and 
boil  until  thick,  then  put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  more. 
Fill  your  jars  about  three-fourths  with  the  fruit,  and  fill  up  with  hot 
syrup.  Any  kind  of  fruit  is  good,  cooked  until  clear  and  tender  in  a 
thick  syrup,  laid  in  the  sun  until  dry,  then  packed  in  boxes  dusted  with 
sugar,  and  a  white  paper  between  each  layer. 

Fig  pickles  are  nice  and  may  be  made  in  the  same  way  with  much 
less  sugar,  a  little  vinegar  and  spices. 

GINGER  PRESERVES. 

Pare  roots  of  green  ginger  and  lay  in  cold  water  fifteen  minutes ;  boil 
in  three  waters  (changing  hot  for  cold  every  time)  until  very  tender; 
drain  and  lay  in  ice  water.  For  the  syrup  allow  one  and  a  quarter 
pounds  of  sugar  for  every  pound  of  ginger,  and  a  cup  of  water  for 
every  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  and  skim  until  the  scum  ceases  to  rise. 
When  the  syrup  is  cold,  wipe  the  ginger  dry  and  drop  it  in.  Let  it 
stand  twenty-four  hours  and  then  drain  and  reheat  the  syrup.  Then, 
when  blood  warm,  put  in  the  ginger  and  let  it  stand  for  two  days. 
Then  reboil  the  syrup  and  pour  it  over  the  ginger  scalding  hot.     In  a 


PKESER  VES  AND  MARMALADES.  595 

week  drain  off  again  ;  boil  and  add  again  while  hot  to  the  ginger ;  cover 
closely.     It  can  be  used  in  about  two  weeks. 

MOCK  GINGER  PRESERVES. 

Cut  into  strips  the  thick  rind  of  a  watermelon,  trim  off  the  green  and 
cut  out  the  inside  until  the  rind  is  firm  ;  cover  with  water,  into  which 
throw  enough  soda  to  make  the  water  taste  of  it;  let  it  stand  from 
twelve  to  twenty-four  hours ;  take  out,  boil  in  clear  water  until  a  straw 
will  go  easily  through  ;  drain ;  put  into  a  syrup  made  of  good  brown 
sugar,  very  strongly  flavored  with  pounded  ginger ;  let  boil  slowly  until 
the  syrup  penetrates  the  rind.    This  is  almost  as  good  as  ginger  preserve. 

A  beautiful  nice  preserve  may  be  made  by  cutting  the  rind  into  fancy 
shapes,  and  substituting  white  sugar  and  lemons  cut  in  thin  rounds  for 
the  ginger  and  brown  sugar.  Soda  makes  the  rind  more  brittle  than 
alum  or  lime. 

GRAPE  PRESERVES. 

Pick  from  the  stem,  wash,  drain  and  weigh ;  take  the  same  amount 
of  white  sugar ;  put  in  a  bright  tin  dish-pan ;  stir  the  grapes  and  sugar 
together ;  set  in  the  oven  until  it  is  hot,  then  place  on  the  stove  stirring 
continually  from  the  bottom  until  it  boils ;  set  one  side  of  the  pan  off 
the  stove ;  have  the  other  side  hot  and  with  a  long-handled  skimmer 
skim  the  seeds  off  as  they  rise  on  the  cool  side.  In  this  way  you  can 
remove  all  the  seeds.  Be  very  careful  not  to  let  them  burn.  Wild 
grapes  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

GOOSEBERRY  PRESERVES. 

The  tops  and  tails  being  removed  from  the  gooseberries,  allow  an 
equal  quantity  of  finely  powdered  loaf  sugar,  and  put  a  layer  of  each 
alternately  into  a  large  deep  jar ;  pour  into  it  as  much  dripped  red  cur- 
rant juice  as  will  dissolve  the  sugar,  adding  its  weight  in  sugar.  The 
next  day  put  all  in  a  preserving  pan  and  boil  it. 

MELON  RIND  PRESERVES. 

Cut  the  rinds  into  small  strips  or  squares ;  take  equal  weight  of  sugar 
and  rinds;  boil  two  hours  slowly,  and  put  into  pots  for  use.  Any  rinds 
can  be  preserved  in  this  way,  and  are  very  nice  for  cakes  or  mince  pie. 
Lemon  peel  boiled  with  the  rinds  adds  to  the  flavor.  Lemon  peel  may 
be  candied  by  boiling  it  with  sugar  and  exposing  it  to  the  air  until  the 
sugar  crystallizes. 

ORANGE  PRESERVES. 

Take  any  number  of  oranges,  with  rather  more  than  their  weight  in 
white  sugar.  Slightly  grate  the  oranges  and  score  them  round  and 
round  with  a  knife,  but  do  not  cut  very  deep.     Put  them  in  cold  water 


596  PRESER  VES  AND  MARMALADES. 

for  three  days,  changing  the  water  two  or  three  times  a  day.  Tie  them 
up  in  a  cloth,  boil  them  until  they  are  soft  enough  for  the  head  of  a  pin  to 
penetrate  the  skin.  While  they  are  boiling  place  the  sugar  on  the  fire 
with  rather  more  than  half  a  pint  of  water  to  each  pound  ;  let  it  boil  for 
a  minute  or  two,  then  strain  through  muslin.  Put  the  oranges  into  the 
s)  rup  till  it  jellies  and  is  a  yellow  color.  Try  the  syrup  by  putting  some 
to  cool.  It  must  not  be  too  stiff.  The  syrup  need  not  cover  the 
oranges,  but  they  must  be  turned,  so  that  each  part  gets  thoroughly 
done. 

PRESERVED  ORANGE  OR  LEMON  PEEL. 

Peel  the  oranges  and  cut  the  rinds  into  narrow  shreds ;  boil  till  ten- 
der ;  change  the  water  three  times ;  squeeze  the  juice  of  the  orange 
over  the  sugar ;  put  pound  to  pound  of  sugar  and  peel ;  boil  twenty 
minutes  all  together.     Lemons  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  way. 

PEACH  PRESERVES. 

Pare  and  stone  your  fruit  and  cut  in  halves ;  weigh  it,  and  allow  one 
pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit ;  crack  peach  stones,  extract  the 
kernels  and  put  a  few  into,  your  syrup  (for  flavoring)  while  cooking. 
Put  a  layer  of  sugar  in  the  kettle  first,  then  a  layer  of  fruit,  and  so  on 
until  all. is  used  ;  set  where  it  will  warm  slowly  until  the  sugar  is  melted 
and  the  fruit  hot  through  ;  boil  steadily  until  the  peaches  are  tender  and 
clear ;  take  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer  and  lay  on  large  flat  dishes, 
crowding  as  little  as  possible.  Boil  the  syrup  almost  to  a  jelly — that  is 
clear  and  thick,  and  skim  ;  fill  your  jars  two  thirds  full  of  the  fruit,  pour 
on  the  boiling  syrup  and  when  cold  cover  with  brandied  tissue  paper, 
then  with  cloth,  lastly  with  thick  paper  tied  tightly  over  them.  The 
peaches  should  be  ready  to  take  off  after  half  an  hour  boiling ;  the  syrup 
boils  fifteen  minuates  longer;  stir  often  to  let  the  scum  rise,  and  skim. 

Pears  are  put  up  the  same,  only  pared.  Leave  stems  on  and  fruit 
whole. 

TO  PRESERVE  CLING-STONE  PEACHES. 

Take  the  finest  peaches,  pare  them  nicely,  halve  them  and  put  in  a 
bowl ;  have  their  weight  of  loaf  sugar  sprinkled  over  them  and  let  them 
stand  for  several  hours.  Put  them  in  the  preserving  kettle,  add  a  little 
water  and  let  the  peaches  remain  until  thoroughly  scalded.  Take 
them  out  with  a  ladle,  pouring  off  the  syrup.  Boil  and  skim  the  syrup 
until  it  is  clear  and  rich ;  return  the  fruit  to  the  kettle  and  cook  there 
gently  until  it  is  clear. 

PEAR  PRESERVES. 

Peel  and  quarter  large  pears,  and  allow  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one 
pound  of  fruit;  stick  one  clove  to  a  pear  in  the  pieces.     Boil  the  sugar 


PRESER  VES  AND  MARMALADES.  597 

with  one  pint  of  water  to  the  pound ;  put  in  some  bits  of  lemon  peel 
and  when  the  syrup  has  boiled  up  clear,  put  the  pears  in  and  let  them 
heat  through ;  take  them  out,  let  cool  and  put  back  to  cook  until  soft. 
Small  ones  can  be  put  up  whole  with  a  clpve  in  the  end. 

PLUM  PRESERVES. 

Allow  to  every  pound  of  fruit  a  pound  of  sugar ;  put  into  stone  jars 
alternate  layers  of  fruit  and  sugar,  and  place  the  jars  in  a  moderately 
warm  oven.  Let  them  remain  until  the  oven  is  cool.  If  prepared  at 
tea  time  let  them  remain  until  morning  ;  then  strain  the  juice  from  the 
plums,  boil  and  clarify  it.  Remove  the  fruit  carefully  to  glass  or  china 
jars ;  pour  over  the  hot  syrup  and  carefully  cover  with  tgg,  tissue  paper, 
or  thick  white  paper,  or  bladder  tied  closely  down.  Or  preserve  same 
as  peaches. 

QUINCE  PRESERVES. 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  the  fruit,  saving  the  skins  and  cores.  Put  the 
quinces  over  the  fire  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  simmer 
until  perfectly  tender,  but  do  not  let  them  break.  Take  out  the  fruit 
and  spread  on  dishes  to  cool;  add  the  parings  and  cores  to  the  water  in 
which  the  quinces  were  boiled,  and  cook  one  hour;  then  strain  through 
a  jelly-bag,  and  to  each  pint  of  this  liquor  allow  a  pound  of  sugar. 
Boil  and  skim  this,  then  put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Take 
it  off  the  fire  and  let  it  stand  in  a  deep  dish  twenty-four  hours,  then 
drain  off  the  syrup  and  let  it  boil  again  ;  put  in  the  quinces  and  cool 
fifteen  minutes.  Take  out  the  fruit  and  spread  on  dishes  to  cool ;  boil 
down  the  syrup  thick;  put  the  fruit  in  jars  until  two-thirds  full  then 
cover  with  the  syrup. 

STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES. 

Select  the  largest  and  finest  strawberries.  Hull  them,  weigh  and 
allow  to  each  pound  one  pound  of  the  best  double  refined  loaf  sugar 
finely  powdered.  Divide  the  sugar  into  two  equal  portions.  Put  a 
layer  of  strawberries  into  the  bottom  of  a  preserving  kettle  and  cover 
them  with  a  layer  of  sugar,  until  half  the  sugar  is  in.  Next  set  the 
kettle  over  a  moderate  fire  and  let  it  boil  till  the  sugar  is  melted.  Then 
put  in,  gradually,  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  and,  after  it  is  all  in,  let  it 
boil  hard  for  five  minutes,  taking  off  the  scum  with  a  silver  spoon ;  but 
there  will  be  little  or  no  scum  if  the  sugar  is  of  the  very  best  quality. 
Afterwards  remove  the  kettle  from  the  fire  and  take  out  the  strawber- 
ries very  carefully  in  a  spoon.  Spread  out  the  strawberries  on  large, 
fiat  dishes,  so  as  not  to  touch  each  other,  and  set  them  immediately  in 
a  cold  place  or  on  ice.  Hang  the  kettle  again  on  the  fire,  and  give  the 
syrup  one  boil  up,  skimming  it  if  necessary.     Place  a  fine  strainer  over 


598  PRESERVES  AND  MARMALADES. 

the  top  of  a  mug  or  pitcher,  and  pour  the  syrup  through  it.  Then  put 
the  strawberries  into  glass  jars  or  tumblers ;  pour  into  %ach  an  equal 
portion  of  the  syrup.  Lay  at  the  top  a  round  piece  of  white  paper 
dipped  in  brandy.     Seal  the  jars  tightly. 

A  shorter  method  is  to  put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  over  a  slow 
fire  until  the  sugar  melts ;  boil  twenty-five  minutes  fast ;  take  out  the 
fruit  in  a  perforated  skimmer  and  fill  a  number  of  small  cans  three- 
quarters  full ;  boil  and  skim  the  syrup  five  minutes  longer ;  fill  up  the 
the  jars  and  seal  while  hot ;  keep  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

Raspberries  may  be  preserved  as  above.  Also  large,  ripe  goose- 
berries. To  each  pound  of  gooseberries  allow  one  and  a  half  pounds 
sugar.     Bury  them  in  a  box  of  sand  or  keep  in  a  dark,  cool  place. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PRESERVES. 

Eight  pounds  small  green  tomatoes  (pierce  each  with  a  fork),  seven 
pounds  sugar,  the  juice  of  four  lemons,  ginger  and  mace  mixed,  one 
ounce.  Heat  all  together  slowly,  and  boil  until  the  fruit  is  clear.  Take 
it  from  the  kettle  in  a  perforated  skimmer,  and  spread  upon  dishes  to 
cool.  Boil  the  syrup  until  thick,  put  the  tomatoes  in  jars  and  pour  syrup 
over  them  hot.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  These  taste  much  like 
foreign  preserves. 

RIPE  TOMATO  PRESERVES. 

Seven  pounds  round  yellow  or  ^gg  tomatoes,  peeled ;  seven  pounds 
sugar ;  juice  of  three  lemons  ;  let  them  stand  together  over  night ;  drain 
off  the  syrup  and  boil  it,  skimming  well ;  put  in  the  tomatoes,  and  boil 
gently  twenty  minutes  ;  take  out  the  fruit  with  a  perforated  skimmer 
and  spread  upon  dishes ;  boil  the  syrup  down  until  it  thickens,  adding, 
just  before  taking  it  up,  the  juice  of  three  lemons ;  put  the  fruit  into 
the  jars  and  fill  up  with  hot  syrup.     When  cold  seal  up. 

TOMATO  FIGS. 

Scald  and  skin  pear-shaped  (or  any  small  sized)  tomatoes,  and  to 
eight  pounds  of  them  add  three  pounds  of  best  brown  sugar;  cook 
without  water  until  the  sugar  penetrates  and  they  have  a  clear  appear- 
ance, take  out,  spread  on  dishes,  and  dry  in  the  sun,  sprinkhng  on  a 
little  syrup  while  drying ;  pack  in  jars  or  boxes,  in  layers,  with  powdered 
sugar  between.  Thus  put  up  they  will  keep  for  any  length  of  time  and 
are  nearly  equal  to  figs. 

PRESERVED  AND  DRIED  FRUIT. 
Use  one  pint  of  sugar  for  a  pint  of  fruit,  put  them  together  in  a  por- 
celain kettle,  a  layer  of  the  fruit   at  the    bottom.     When  the  sugar  is 
dissolved,  let  them  boil  one  or  two  minutes,  skim  from  the  syrup,  and 


FRESER  VES  AND  MARMALADES.  599 

spread  on  plates  to  dry  in  a  partly  cooled  oven.  Boil  the  syrup  until 
thickened,  pour  it  over  the  currants  and  dry  it  with  them.  Pack  in  paper- 
sacks,  or  a  box  lined  with  paper,  and  keep  in  a  dry  and  cool  place. 
Heat  engenders  moths,  but  a  few  sprigs  of  dry  sassafras  will  keep  fruit 
secure  from  their  intrusion.  Blackberries,  cherries,  plums  and  currants 
may  be  dried  in  this  way,  or  any  of  the  small  fruits. 

MARMALADE  OF  MIXED  FRUITS. 

Pare  equal  quantities  of  apples,  pears,  peaches  and  quinces  ;  cut  them 
fine  and  put  them  to  boil  with  a  pint  of  water  to  six  pounds  of  fruit ; 
let  them  cook  thoroughly  ;  take  out  and  mash  well ;  clean  the  kettle 
and  put  them  back  with  half  their  weight  in  sugar,  and  cook  slowly  two 
hours. 

CIDER  APPLE-SAUCE. 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  sweet  apples  sufficient  to  fill  a  gallon  porce- 
lain kettle  ;  put  with  them  a  half-gallon  boiled  cider  and  let  it  come  to  a 
boil.  Place  a  plate  over  them  and  boil  steadily  but  not  rapidly  until 
they  are  thoroughly  cooked,  testing  by  taking  one  from  under  the  edge 
of  the  plate  with  a  fork.  Do  not  remove  the  plate  until  done,  or  the 
apples  will  sink  to  the  bottom  and  burn. 

APPLE  MARMALADE. 

Pare,  core  and  cut  the  apples  in  small  pieces  ;  put  them  in  water 
with  some  lemon  juice  to  keep  them  white  ;  after  a  short  interval  take 
them  out  and  drain  them  ;  weigh  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  sugar  ;  add  grated  lemon  peel,  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
some  cinnamon  sticks  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Place  the  stewpan  over  a 
brisk  fire  and  cover  it  closely.  When  the  apples  are  reduced  to  a  pulp, 
stir  the  mixture  until  it  becomes  of  the  proper  consistency. 

-APPLE  BUTTER. 

Take  one  bushel  of  sour  apples  (do  not  peel),  wash  them,  cut  out  the 
cores  and  decayed  spots,  put  into  a  tin  boiler  (kept  for  the  purpose), 
and  boil  until  tender ;  run  them  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the  boiler 
with  water  in  which  they  were  cooked  and  let  boil  for  an  hour  till  as 
thick  as  apple  sauce ;  add  cinnamon,  cloves  and  brown  sugar  to  suit 
the  taste,  two  quarts  or  a  little  more  of  apple  jelly ;  after  cooking  a  little 
longer,  put  while  hot  into  jars. 

CHERRY  MARMALADE. 

Stone  the  cherries  and  pulp  them  thoroughly  through  a  coarse  sieve; 
to  every  three  pounds  of  pulp  add  half   a  pint   of  currant  juice :  add 


600  PRESEK  VES  AND  MARMALADES. 

three-quarters  of    a  pound  of    sugar    to   each   pound  of    fruit;   mix 
together  and  boil  until  it  will  jelly.     Put  in  cans  or  glasses. 

GRAPE  MARMALADE. 

Pick  the  grapes  from  the  stem,  put  into  a  preserving  kettle,  cover- 
ing them  with  water.  Boil  until  perfectly  soft,  then  pour  into  a  col- 
ander and  rub  them  until  all  the  pulp  passes  through ;  then  to  each 
pint  of  pulp  add  one  pound  of  clarified  sugar  and  boil  until  the  proper 
consistency.    Put  it  into  jars  and  cover  as  preserves. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Take  three  pounds  of  sweet  oranges  and  two  pounds  of  lemons,  with 
the  same  weight  of  sugar.  Take  a  thin  paring  from  the  fruit  and  cut 
into  fine  chips ;  boil  them  until  quite  tender ;  scrape  off  the  pulp  from 
the  inner  skins,  and  pick  out  the  seeds.  Have  a  dish  with  a  little  water^ 
in  which  put  skins  and  seeds  to  extract  all  the  juice  possible.  When, 
all  is  ready,  strain  the  water  from  the  chips  and  skins,  and  use  one  and 
a  half  pints  for  the  syrup.  Boil  pulp,  chips,  etc.,  twenty  minutes,, 
and  cover  when  cold. 

PEACH  MARMALADE. 

Take  ripe  freestone  peaches.  Pare,  stone  and  quarter  them ;  to  a 
pound  of  fruit  allow  three-quarters  of  loaf  sugar  and  half  ounce  of 
bitter  almonds.  Blanch  the  almonds  in  scalding  water  and  pound  them 
until  smooth.  Scald  the  peaches  in  a  very  little  warm  water;  mash 
them  ;  mix  them  with  the  sugar  and  alm.onds,  and  put  the  whole  into  a 
preserving  kettle.  Boil  it  to  a  thick,  smooth  paste.  Skim  and  stir  it 
well,  and  keep  the  kettle  covered  as  much  as  possible.  Fifteen  minutes 
will  be  sufficient  to  boil  them.     When  cold,  put  up  in  glass  jars. 

PLUM  MARiMALADE. 

Stone  them  and  put  into  the  kettle  with  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each 
pound  of  fruit ;  put  a  small  cup  of  cold  water  in  first  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. When  the  fruit  begins  to  soften,  take  a  potato-masher  and  mash 
it  to  a  pulp,  without  taking  it  from  the  fire.  Let  it  boil  gently  for  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes,  not  longer  than  twenty.  Take  from  the  fire  and 
put  into  jars. 

PLUM  CHEESE. 

Boil  plums  in  sufficient  water  to  prevent  burning ;  then  wash  and 
strain  ;  to  every  pound  of  pulp  add  half  a  pound  of  clear  brown  sugar; 
cook  as  you  would  jam,  stirring  to  prevent  burning.  It  can  be  cut  in 
slices,  and  is  a  nice  addition  for  lunch.  * 


SALADS,  601 

QUINCE  MARMALADE. 

Poor  quinces,  unfit  for  other  uses,  can  be  washed  and  cut  in  small 
pieces,  coring  but  not  paring  them.  Allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  sugar  and  a  teacup  of  water  to  a  pound  of  fruit,  and  boil  slowly  two 
hours,  stirring  and  mashing  it  fine.  Strain  through  a  colander,  and  put 
in  glasses  or  bowls.  Peaches,  crab  apples  or  sour  apples  may  be  used 
in  the  same  way. 


SALADS. 


Salads  are  the  most  delicious  of  all  vegetable  dishes,  and  are  good 
appetizers,  especially  in  warm  weather.  The  vegetables  used  for  salads 
are :  Lettuce,  cabbage,  boiled  asparagus,  boiled  cauliflowers,  celery, 
water-cress,  onions,  etc.  Prepare  these  carefully  by  washing  in  ice-cold 
water,  cleaning  thoroughly  from  all  dirt  or  foreign  substances,  drying 
carefully  in  a  towel,  avoiding  as  much  as  possible  crushing  or  breaking 
the  leaves,  as  it  causes  them  to  wilt,  and  then  shredding  with  the 
fingers  instead  of  using  a  knife.  Always  avoid  using  a  knife  on  any 
kind  of  salad,  as  it  blackens  and  destroys  the  crispness  and  freshness 
of  the  vegetable.  Lettuce  is  often  served  with  the  leaves  entire,  except 
the  leaves  are  broken  from  the  center  stalk,  and  the  stalk  reserved  for 
garnishing;  serve  the  lettuce  on  ice  without  dressing,  and  let  it  be  pre- 
pared by  ihe  one  served,  or  if  dressing  is  preferred,  use  one-third  as 
much  oil  as  vinegar ;  pepper  and  salt  at  discretion,  mustard  if  liked  ; 
pile  in  a  salad  bowl ;  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and  pour  the  rest 
of  the  ingredients  mixed  together  over  the  salad.  Toss  up  with  a  silver 
fork  to  mix  all  well. 

If  eggs  are  used,  boil  them  hard  and  powder  them,  by  mashing  with 
the  back  of  a  silver  spoon  ;  add  the  seasoning,  then  the  oil,  a  few  drops 
at  a  time,  and  lastly  and  gradually  the  vmegar.  A  celebrated  caterer 
says  the  dressing  of  a  salad  should  be  saturated  with  oil,  and  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt,  before  the  vinegar  is  added  ;  it  results  from  this 
process  that  there  can  never  be  too  much  vinegar,  for,  from  the  specific 
gravity  of  the  vinegar  compared  with  the  oil,  what  is  more  than  useful 
will  fall  to  the  bottom  of  the  bowl ;  the  salt  should  not  be  dissolved  in 
the  vinegar,  but  in  the  oil,  by  which  means  it  is  more  equally  distrib- 
uted throughout  the  salad.  Always  use  the  freshest  olive  salad  oil ; 
cream  or  melted  butter  is  a  good  substitute  if  the  salad  oil  cannot  be 
procured,  or  even  pure  meat  drippings,  but  if  these  are  used,  they  should 
be  added  the  last  of  all. 


602  SALADS. 

For  chicken  or  potato  salads,  prepare  the  dressing,  pour  it  over  the 
dish  prepared,  garnish  the  top  with  slices  of  cold  boiled  tgg  or  lemon, 
and  finish  the  edge  of  dish  with  sprigs  of  celery,  and  set  away  until 
needed.  Salads  should  not  be  prepared  more  than  two  hours  before 
eating,  and  should  be  left  in  the  ice-box  until  the  meal  is  ready  to 
serve.  Lettuce,  cabbage,  celery  and  all  vegetables  used  for  salads, 
should  be  left  in  ice  water  for  several  hours  before  using.  Vegetable 
salads  should  be  stirred  as  little  as  possible  in  order  that  their  freshness 
may  be  preserved  until  ready  to  serve. 

To  fringe  celery  stalks  for  chicken,  meat,  or  salad  garnishes,  cut  the 
stalks  into  two-inch  lengths  ;  stick  plenty  of  coarse  needles  into  a  cork ; 
draw  half  of  the  stalk  of  celery  through  the  needles ;  when  done  lay  in 
a  cold  place  to  curl.     Stir  salads  with  a  wooden  fork  or  spoon, 

A  SIMPLE  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Mix  three  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  and  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
grated  onion,  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt — the  same  of  pepper  and 
mustard.  Mix  well,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  pour  over 
the  salad. 

DRESSING  FOR  COLD  SLAW. 

Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  vinegar,  one  ^gg ;  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  ^gg',  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  mustard.  Put 
over  the  fire,  stir  until  thick  enough.     Cool  before  using. 

MAYONNAISE  SALAD  DRESSING. 

The  yolks  of  two  eggs  raw  and  well  beaten.  Season  with  cayenne 
pepper,  salt  and  mustard  to  the  taste,  then  add,  in  as  fine  a  stream  ^ 
possible,  olive  oil,  and  stir  constantly  until  as  smooth  and  thick  as 
required.  Add  vinegar,  a  little  at  a  time,  as  you  stir  it.  Nice  for  any 
kind  of  salad. 

A  WHOLESOME  SUMMER  SALAD. 

Cut  up  a  pound  of  beef  into  thin  slices,  and  half  a  pound  of  white, 
fresh  lettuce ;  put  in  a  salad  bowl,  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
half  that  quantity  of  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  four  of 
good  salad  oil.  Stir  all  together  lightly  with  a  fork  and  spoon,  and 
when  well  mixed  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

MADE  MUSTARD  DRESSING. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  English  mustard,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  the 
same  quantity  of  salad  oil  and  white  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  pepper ; 
vinegar  to  make  a  smooth  paste — that  from  celery  or  onion  pickles,  if 
you  have  it.     Rub  mustard,  oil,  sugar,  pepper  and  salt  together,  wet  by 


SALADS,  603 

degrees  with  vinegar,  beating  very  hard  at  the  last,  when  the  proper 
consistency  has  been  gained. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD. 

After  having  washed  and  scraped  asparagus,  boil  soft  in  salt  water, 
drain  off  water,  add  pepper,  salt  and  strong  cider  vinegar,  and  then  cool. 
Before  serving,  arrange  asparagus  so  that  heads  will  all  lie  in  center  of 
dish  ;  mix  the  vinegar  in  which  it  was  put,  after  removing  from  the  fire. 
With  good  olive  oil  or  melted  butter,  and  pour  over  the  asparagus. 

BAVARIAN  SALAD. 

Two  small  onions,  two  heads  of  lettuce,  pulled  to  pieces ;  one  boiled 
beet,  cold  and  sliced,  three  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil,  two  of  vinegar, 
yolk  of  one  raw  egg,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  same  of  made  mus- 
tard. Chop  the  onions  very  fine,  and  beat  in  the  whipped  egg,  the 
salt,  mustard,  the  oil  and  the  vinegar.  Put  the  lettuce  into  a  dish  ; 
cover  with  the  beet-root  and  pour  on  the  dressing. 

BEAN  SALAD. 

String  young  beans,  break  into  half-inch  pieces  (or  leave  whole),  wash 
and  cook  soft  in  salt  water;  drain  well,  add  finely-chopped  onion,  pep- 
per, salt  and  vinegar ;  when  cool  add  olive  oil  or  melted  butter.  The 
onions  may  be  omitted. 

COLD  SLAW. 

Slice  on  a  cutter  as  fine  as  possible  and  dress  simply  with  salt,  vine- 
gar, and  plenty  of  olive  oil,  mixing  thoroughly.  This  should  be  dressed 
at  the  table  when  ready  to  serve.  The  olive  oil  may  be  left  out  and 
sugar  used  in  its  place. 

CREAM  SLAW. 

One  large  cabbage  cut  very  fine,  pint  vinegar,  pint  sweet  cream,  half 
cup  sugar,  teaspoonful  flour,  two  eggs  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  walnut ;  put  vinegar,  sugar  and  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  let  boil ; 
stir  eggs,  cream  and  flour,  previously  well  mixed,  into  the  vinegar,  boil 
thoroughly  and  throw  over  the  cabbage,  previously  sprinkled  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  of  black  pepper  and  one  of  mustard. 

CABBAGE  SALAD. 

One  small  head  of  cabbage,  chopped  fine  or  cut  into  shreds,  one  cup 
of  boiling  milk,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  tea- 
spoonful  essence  of  celery,  pepper  and  salt.  Heat  milk  and  vinegar  in 
separate  vessels.     To  the  boiling  vinegar  add  butter,  sugar  and  season- 


604  SALADS. 

ing,  lastly  the  chopped  cabbage.  Heat  to  scalding,  but  do  not  let  it 
boil.  Stir  the  beaten  eggs  into  the  hot  milk.  Cook  one  minute 
together  after  they  begin  to  boil.  Turn  the  hot  cabbage  into  a  bowl ; 
pour  the  mixture  over  it ;  toss  up  and  about  until  ah  the  ingredients  are 
well  mixed.     Cover  and  set  in  a  very  cold  place  for  several  hours. 

HOT  SLAW. 

One  small,  firm  head  of  cabbage  shred  fine,  one  cup  of  vinegar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sour  cream,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  one  saltspoonful 
of  pepper  and  the  same  of  salt.  Put  the  vinegar  and  all  the  other 
iugredients  for  the  dressing,  except  the  cream,  in  a  saucepan  and  heat 
to  a  boil ;  pour  scalding  hot  over  the  cabbage  ;  return  to  the  saucepan 
and  stir  and  toss  until  all  is  smoking  again ;  take  from  the  fire,  stir  in 
the  cream,  turn  into  a  covered  dish  and  set  in  hot  water  ten  minutes 
before  you  send  to  the  table. 

CELERY  SALAD. 

One-half  head  of  cabbage,  three  bunches  of  celery,  both  chopped 
fine.  Take  one  cup  of  vinegar,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  Qgg, 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  same  of  mus- 
tard, a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Mix  these 
well  and  put  over  the  fire  and  stir  until  like  thick  cream.  When  cold 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  thick,  sweet  cream.  If  not  moist  enough, 
add  a  little  cold  vinegar. 

CHICKEN  SALAD  (WITH  CELERY). 

Take  two  large  fowls  boiled,  and  cold  ;  remove  all  the  fat  and  skin, 
and  chop,  but  not  too  fine.  Take  three  large  heads  of  celery  and  chop, 
mix  thoroughly  with  the  chicken,  and  pour  over  them  a  portion  of 
the  mayonnaise  dressing,  stirring  it  well  together,  then  form  in  a  mound 
in  the  center  of  a  dish,  pour  over  the  rest  of  the  dressing,  and  garnish 
the  edge  of  the  dish  with  the  celery  leaves,  or  double  parsley.  Salt  or 
vinegar  can  be  added  while  mixing,  if  desired. 

CHICKEN  SALAD  (FOR  SPRING). 

Four  heads  of  lettuce,  one  large  sized  chicken  chopped.  Mix  lightly 
together  and  pour  over  the  following  dressing :  One  teaspoonful  of 
capers,  three  hard-boiled  eggs  (yolks),  one  raw  tgg,  one  dozen  oHves 
chopped,  twelve  tablespoonfuls  oil,  one  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful 
mixed  English  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  two  of  white  wine  vine- 
gar, one  of  white  pepper.     The  same  salad  may  be  made  with  four 


SALADS.  605 

heads  of  celery,  if  preferred.     Save  out  some  of  the  delicate  green  leaves 
and  t[)e  whites  of  the  boiled  eggs  to  garnish  the  dish. 

CHICKEN  SALAD  (WITH  LETTUCE). 

Cut  the  meat  from  two  chickens,  or  one  if  you  want  a  small  dish. 
Add  an  equal  quantity  of  shred  lettuce,  after  you  have  cut  the  chickens 
into  narrow  shreds  two  inches  long.  Mix  in  a  bowl.  Prepare  a  dress- 
ing thus  :  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  salt  slightly  and  beat  in,  a  few 
drops  at  a  time,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  oil ;  then,  as  gradually,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  hot  vinegar  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  best  celery  essence. 
The  mixture  should  be  thick  as  cream  ;  pour  over  the  chicken,  mix  well 
and  lightly ;  put  into  a  salad  dish  and  lay  sections  of  two  hard-boiled 
eggs  on  top,  with  a  chain  of  sliced  whites  around  the  edge. 

CHICKEN  SALAD  (WITH  CABBAGE). 

Boil  tender  two  nice  chickens,  mince  well  the  meat,  removing  every 
scrap  of  fat,  gristle  and  skin  ;  take  the  best  part  of  a  small  cabbage,  dis- 
carding all  the  pith  and  green  leaves ;  chop  fine — there  should  be  less 
than  a  quart  when  chopped — chop  half  as  much  celery  as  cabbage  and 
mix  well  with  the  chicken;  then  boil  four  eggs  very  hard,  work  the 
yolks  to  a  paste  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  half  gill  of  good  sweet  olive 
oil  or  one  gill  of  melted  butter ;  mix  gradually  with  the  tgg  until  all  is 
mixed  ;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  finely  ground  best  black  pepper,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  mixed  mustard  stirred  thoroughly  into  the  paste,  and 
add  one  teacup  of  vinegar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  salt ;  mix  all 
together  half  an  hour  before  using.  If  Hked  add  half  a  cup  of  grated 
horseradish. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD. 

Pare  and  lay  them  in  ice-water  one  hour,  then  slice  and  season  to 
taste  with  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt.  Never  omit  the  soaking  in  ice- 
water. 

EGG  OR  FISH  SALAD. 

Take  cooked  potatoes  and  slice  very  thin  ;  add  to  them  three  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  also  sliced  thin ;  chop  one  small,  fresh  onion.  In  a  glass 
bowl  or  salad,  dish  put  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  a  layer  of  eggs,  and 
sprinkle  over  them  a  little  chopped  onion,  salt  and  pepper.  For  dress- 
ing, take  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg  and  stir  into  it  half  teaspoonful  of 
made  mustard.  Beat  into  it,  drop  by  drop,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sweet  cream ;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  strong  vinegar  and  the  white  of 
the  tgg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  If  needed  for  supper  make  at  noontime. 
Flakes  of  cold  boiled  salmon,  cod  or  halibut,  substituted  for  the  eggs, 
or  added  with  them,  will  make  a  fish  salad. 


606  SALADS. 


LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Pick  apart  the  heads  and  pile  upon  pounded  ice,  on  a  glass  dish. 
Pass  vinegar,  pepper,  salt  and  powdered  sugar  with  it. 


LOBSTER  SALAD. 


Pick  the  meat  carefully  from  the  shell  after  boiling,  chop  and  serve 
with  mayonnaise  dressing.     Garnish  with  parsley. 


ORANGE  SALAD. 


Oranges  thinly  sliced  and  freed  from  seeds — dressed  with  lemon  juice 
and  salad  oil,  one-fourth  of  lemon  juice  to  three-fourths  of  oil,  with  a 
dust  of  cayenne  pepper — combine  novelty  with  merit;  especially  is 
orange  salad  excellent  with  cold  game  or  roast  pork. 


LEMON  SALAD. 

Lemon  salad  is  similarly  prepared,  substituting  the  lemons  for  the 
oranges  (and  vice  vema),  with  the  addition  of  lettuce,  carefully  washed 
and  dried,  and  some  sprigs  of  fresh  mint  or  tarragon. 

OYSTER  SALAD. 

Steam  one  quart  of  oysters  until  tender ;  take  one  pint  of  celery  after 
it  is  cut  fine  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  make  a  good,  rich  salad  dressing* 
Put  oysters  and  celery  on  ice  until  serving  time,  drain  the  celery  in  a 
colander  and  mix  lightly  before  pouring  the  dressing  over  them.  Gar- 
nish with  leaves  of  celery  and  a  border  of  the  stalks  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

PICNIC  SALAD. 

One  quart  of  very  finely  chopped  cabbage,  two-thirds  cup  of  sour 
cream,  two  well-beaten  eggs  ;  season  to  taste  with  sugar,  salt,  pepper 
and  mustard.  If  you  have  no  celery  to  chop  with  your  cabbage,  put  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  celery  seed.  Add  a  little  vinegar.  This  is  very  fine, 
will  keep  well  several  days,  and  for  this  reason  is  excellent  for  picnics. 

PORK  OR  VEAL  SALAD. 

The  remains  of  cold  roast  pork  make  a  nice  salad  if  mixed  with  cel- 
ery in  the  proportion  of  two  cups  of  celery  to  one  of  meat;  any  salad 
dressing  preferred  may  be  used.  Veal  also  makes  a  nice  salad  if 
steamed  or  roasted  so  as  to  retain  its  juices  and  flavor. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Slice  several  cold  boiled  potatoes  with  one  large  onion  ;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.     The  dressing — Take  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  (slice 


SALADS.  607 

the  whites  with  the  potatoes),  stir  them  to  a  cream,  beat  in  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  of  made  mustard,  one  of  white  mustard  seed, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  and  one-half  teacup  of  vinegar.  This 
should  be  of  the  consistency  of  cream.  Pour  over  the  salad  and  set  on 
the  ice  till  served. 

AMERICAN  POTATO  SALAD. 

Take  as  many  cold  potatoes,  boiled  with  the  skins  on,  and  peeled 
while  hot,  as  may  be  required.  Cut  into  small  pieces,  half  the  size  of  a 
hickory-nut,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  grated  onion.  Cover  them  with 
mayonnaise  dressing  and  set  on  ice.  Or  slice  cold  potatoes — not  too 
thin — and  young  onions — one-third  onions — and  pour  over  them  "a 
simple  salad  dressing." 

FRENCH  POTATO  SALAD. 

The  potatoes  are  first  put  into  cold  water  in  their  jackets,  with  a  good 
teaspoonful  of  salt  added  to  a  dozen  potatoes.  They  are  then  allowed 
to  boil  up,  and  afterward  left  to  simmer  gently  until  quite  tender. 
When  cold  they  are  peeled  and  cut  up  into  rounds  as  thin  as  possible, 
which  are  laid  in  a  dish,  well  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  sprinkled 
with  plenty  of  finely-chopped  parsley,  and  then  saturated  with  oil  and 
vinegar.  In  other  salads,  vinegar  is  used  in  about  the  proportion  of 
one  to  four  of  oil ;  but  potatoes  require  a  great  deal  more — in  fact,  an 
almost  equal  quantity  of  each,  not  less  in  any  case  than  three  spoonfuls 
of  vinegar  to  four  of  oil.  Those  who  like  the  flavor  will  find  thinly 
sliced  onions,  either  spring  or  Spanish,  or  a  very  small  piece  of  garlic, 
finely  shred,  a  great  improvement  to  the  salad. 

GERMAN  POTATO  SALAD. 

Take  as  many  potatoes  as  liked  and  boil  them  in  their  jackets  until 
done;  when  partly  cold,  slice  them  up  and  add  sliced  onions  to  the 
taste,  with  pepper,  salt,  vinegar  and  salad  oil,  or  roast  beef  drippings  if 
you  have  no  salad  oil.  Be  sure  and  have  the  potatoes  warm  enough, 
and  don't  put  too  much  vinegar  to  them,  only  enough  to  wet  them 
through.  Winter  lettuce  chopped  with  the  onions,  makes  potato  salad 
very  much  nicer,  and  the  dish  is  made  very  attractive  by  being  garnished 
with  it. 

SALMON  SALAD. 

For  a  pound  can  of  salmon,  break  a  fine  head  of  crisp  lettuce  into 
bits  and  mix  well,  then  add  plenty  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  or  any  of 
the  boiled  dressings.  Serve  icy  cold,  as  all  salads  should  be,  to  be  good. 
Any  kind  of  cold,  boiled,  fresh  fish  will  make  a  fine  salad  either  with  or 
without  potatoes. 


608  SAND  WICHES. 

SWEET-BREAD  SALAD. 

Boil  the  sweetbread  twenty  minutes,  then  drop  them-  into  cold  milk ; 
wipe  dry,  split  them  and  fry  in  butter  until  brown  ;  cut  them  in  small 
pieces  and  mix  with  lettuce.  Make  a  dressing  of  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mixed  mustard,  salt 
and  half  a  cup  of  olive  oil,  well  beaten,  the  oil  added  in  as  fine  a  stream 
as  possible. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 

One  dozen  medium  sized  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced.  Set  on  ice  and 
when  ready  to  serve,  pour  over  them  the  following  dressing :  The  yolks 
of  four  hard  boiled  eggs  and  one  raw  t.%%  well  beaten  ;  salt  and  mus- 
tard to  the  taste ;  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  half  a  cup  of  olive 
oil,  added  very  slowly,  a  little  at  a  time,  with  vinegar  the  same  way  until 
of  the  right  consistency  and  taste. 

TURKEY  SALAD. 

The  white  meat  of  the  turkey  cut  up  in  small  pieces  ;  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  blanched  celery,  also  cut  into  lengths.  Salt  slightly,  and  when 
dinner  is  nearly  ready,  pour  over  them  a  dressing  made  of  the  yolks  of 
three  hard  boiled  eggs  rubbed  to  a  powder  with  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
half  as  much  salt,  pepper  and  made  mustard,  when  worked  into  a  paste 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  and  six  of  vinegar.  Toss  up  the  salad 
well  with  a  fork,  and  garnish  with  white  of  t.%%  cut  in  rings. 

VEGETABLE  SALAD. 

Take  new  potatoes  and  young  beets  ;  boil  until  done  in  separate  ket- 
tles, then  slice  into  the  dish  in  which  they  are  to  be  put  on  the  table  ; 
first  put  a  layer  of  potatoes,  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt  and  little 
lumps  of  butter,  then  a  layer  of  beets,  treated  in  the  same  way,  and  so 
on  until  the  dish  is  full,  then  pour  over  all  a  very  little  sweet  cream  or 
milk,  or  vinegar,  if  preferred. 

WATER  CRESSES. 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  cresses  carefully,  pluck  from  the  stems,  and 
pile  in  the  salad  bowl,  with  a  dressing  of  vinegar,  pepper,  salt  and  sugar, 
well  stirred  in. 


SANDWICHES. 

Cold  tongue,  cold  roast  veal,  cold  roast  beef  and  cold  ham  are  all  of 
them  excellent  for  sandwiches,  but  the  flavoring  of  salt,  mustard,  etc., 
is  varied  to  suit  the  peculiar  qualities  of  each.  Tongue  and  ham  pos- 
sess decided  qualities  of  their  own,  but  the  other  two  meats  require 
toning-up  to  suit  the  palate. 


SAND  WICHES,  609 

Grated  pineapple-cheese,  mixed  with  a  thick  mayonnaise  and  placed 
between  very  thinly  cut  slices  of  bread,  is  very  much  liked  for  traveling 
or  picnic  lunches. 

A  new  way  to  make  sandwiches  is  to  boil  a  few  pounds  of  nice  ham ; 
chop  very  fine  while  yet  warm,  fat  and  lean  together,  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  lean  veal  boiled  or  roasted ;  rub  dry  mustard  through  the 
mass  in  proportion  to  suit  the  taste,  also  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper ;  a 
single  clove  of  garlic  chopped  with  the  meat  vastly  improves  it ;  add  as 
much  sweet  butter  as  you  would  use  to  spread  on  bread  sandwiches; 
mix  well ;  have  some  nice  light  soda  and  sour  milk  biscuit,  cold ;  cut  in 
two  and  spread  the  mixture  between,  or  use  muffins  if  you  have  them. 
These  are  very  nice  for  a  picnic  or  festival  table,  and  not  half  the  work 
of  those  made  in  the  old  way,  as  it  saves  you  buttering  the  bread, 
slicing  the  ham  and  spreading  the  mustard,  and  you  will  find  that  twice 
the  number  will  be  eaten  than  if  made  in  the  old  way. 

SANDWICH  DRESSING. 

Yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar and  one  large  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil ;  chop  the  meat  fine ;  mix 
-dressing  with  the  meat  and  put  between  the  bread. 

EGG  SANDWICH. 

Take  as  many  hard  boiled  eggs  as  necessary;  grate  them;  salt  and 
pepper,  put  between  buttered  slices  and  send  to  table. 

EGG  AND  HAM  SANDWICHES. 

Mince  cold,  boiled  ham  and  hard  boiled  eggs  together.  Have  ready 
some  thin  slices  of  bread  spread  with  butter  and  mustard ;  place  the 
minced  meat  between  the  slices.     Nice  for  traveling  lunch. 

HAM  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  fine  the  lean  of  cold  boiled  ham  ;  season  with  prepared  mustard 
and  black  pepper.  Add  melted  butter  and  sweet  cream  until  smooth 
like  a  paste ;  then  spread  between  buttered  slices  of  bread. 

LUNCH  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  sardines,  ham  and  a  few  pickles  quite  fine ;  mix  with  mustard, 
pepper,  salt,  vinegar,  and  catsup,  if  liked ;  spread  between  bread  nicely 
buttered.     This  is  to  be  cut  crosswise  like  jelly  cake. 
39 


610  SHELL  FISH. 


MIXED  MEAT  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  fine,  cold  ham,  tongue  and  chicken ;  mix  with  one  pint  of  the 
meat  half  a  cup  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful  salad  oil,  one  of  mus- 
tard, if  desired,  the  yolk  of  a  beaten  ^gg,  and  a  little  pepper  ;  spread  on 
bread  cut  thin  and  buttered.     Ham  alone  may  be  prepared  in  this  way. 

OYSTER  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  raw  oysters  very  fine,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  nut- 
meg and  four  crackers  pounded  and  sifted ;  the  white  of  an  ^gg  beaten  ; 
cream  and  butter.  When  all  is  mixed,  heat  them  over  the  fire  until  a 
smooth  paste.  Spread  between  buttered  slices  of  bread.  Or  a  quart  of 
solid  meats,  a  half-teacup  of  melted  butter,  the  same  of  rich  cream, 
whites  of  three  eggs  and  eight  crackers. 

TONGUE  SANDWICHES. 

Boil  a  good  sized  tongue  four  or  five  hours,  not  letting  the  water  boil 
hard,  but  keep  it  on  a  simmer,  leave  it  in  the  pot  until  the  water  is 
cold,  then  skin  it,  and  when  ready  to  make  the  sandwiches  cut  it  as 
thin  as  wafers,  using  a  sharp,  thin-bladed  knife ;  rub  a  small  quantity 
of  mustard  into  a  large  slice  of  sweet  butter  and  cut  slices  of  bread  as 
thin  as  they  can  be  shaved ;  spread  them  with  the  prepared  butter  and 
lay  the  slices  of  tongue  between  two  slices  of  bread ;  then  cut  the  slices 
in  halves. 


SHELL  FISH, 

AND  THE  MANY  WAYS  OF  COOKING  THEM. 

Under  the  head  of  shell-fish  are  classed  clams,  crabs,  lobsters,  turtles 
and  oysters.  In  choosing  the  latter,  select  those  with  firmly  closed 
shells,  else  the  oysters  are  not  fresh.  If  fresh,  the  shell  is  firmly  closed  ; 
when  the  shells  of  oysters  are  opened,  they  are  dead  and  unfit  for  food. 
The  small-shelled  oysters,  the  Pyfleet,  Colchester  and  Milford,  are  the 
finest  in  flavor.  Larger  kinds,  called  rock  oysters,  are  generally  con- 
sidered only  fit  for  stewing  and  sauces,  though  some  persons  prefer 
them  to  any  other. 

Always  select  the  best  of  oysters,  for  it  is  impossible  for  even  the  best 
of  cooks  to  make  a  first-rate  dish  out  of  even  second-rate  materials.  It 
is  just  as  impossible  to  make  a  first-class  stew  out  of  inferior  oysters  as 
it  is  to  make  a  first-class  fry.  Stewing  will,  of  course,  reduce  the  size 
of  all  oysters  more  than  frying ;  but  those  which  are  used  in  stews 
should  be  as  large  originally  as  those  which  are  fried.  Equally  for 
stews  as  for  fries,  select  only  those  real  prime  oysters  which  are  large, 


SHELL  FISH.  611 

fresh  and  firm-fleshed,  and  which,  though  they  will  be  made  smaller  by 
stewing,  still  remain  plump  and  solid.  More  gratification  and  more 
nourishment  will  be  obtained  from  three  or  four  of  the  very  best  quality 
large  oysters  than  from  thirty  or  forty  of  the  smaller  and  inferior  quality 
which  is  generally  served. 

To  pan  oysters  in  their  own  juice,  select  a  dozen  of  the  freshest, 
largest  and  most  highly  flavored  oysters,  such  as  you  would  for  a  fry ; 
have  a  small  pan  about  one  inch  deep  with  a  handle  to  it ;  open  into 
this  pan  your  dozen  oysters,  also  the  juice  of  the  same  and  the  juice  of 
a  dozen  others  ;  in  this  dish  you  are  to  put  no  water  and  no  milk,  only 
oyster  juice,  pure  and  simple ;  add  one  ounce  best  butter,  a  little  of  the 
best  (for  there  are  grades  and  adulteration  even  here)  of  black  pepper 
and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  sprinkle  on  the  top  a  small  quantity  of  cracker 
dust ;  place  on  a  quick  fire ;  when  the  oysters  begin  to  swell  they  are 
done ;  to  cook  to  this  stage  will  require  about  five  minutes  ;  do  not  turn 
out  these  oysters  into  another  dish,  but  dish  directly  from  the  pan  and 
while  they  are  steaming  hot. 

A  celebrated  cook  has  discovered  a  way  to  have  oyster  flavor  all  the 
year  round.  Take  fresh,  large,  plump  oysters,  beard  them  and  place 
them  in  a  vessel  over  the  fire  for  a  few  moments  in  order  to  extract  the 
juice,  then  put  them  to  cool,  and  chop  them  very  fine  with  powdered 
biscuit,  mace,  and  finely  minced  lemon-peel ;  pound  them  until  they 
become  a  paste ;  make  them  up  into  thin  cakes,  place  them  on  a  sheet 
of  paper  in  a  slow  oven  and  let  them  bake  until  they  become  quite  hard  ; 
pound  them  directly  into  powder,  and  place  the  powder  in  a  dry  tin  box, 
well  covered ;  keep  in  a  dry  place,  and  it  will  be  very  much  appreciated 
when  the  true  oyster  flavor  is  imparted  to  fish,  sauces  and  dishes.  This 
makes  a  delicious  sauce  for  fresh  cod. 

The  ways  of  preparing  oysters  are  many,  but  this  method  is  not 
widely  known  :  Take  two  dozen  oysters  and  throw  them  in  a  large  deep 
dish ;  then  take  a  small  bunch  of  parsley,  chopped  fine,  a  little  lemon- 
rind  grated,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  the  crumbs  of  a  stale  French 
roll,  also  grated ;  let  the  latter  be  well  incorporated,  adding  some 
cavenne.  Have  in  readiness  the  yolks  of  three  fresh  eggs  beaten  up 
into  a  foam  ;  dip  each  oyster  separately  into  the  eggs  and  roll  them  into 
the  bread  crumbs  until  they  are  all  covered  with  a  good  coat.  Put  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  the  oven,  till  it  is  melted,  arrange  the 
oysters  in  the  pan,  and  turn  them  continually  until  they  assume  a  per- 
fect brown  and  crusty  appearance.  When  fully  cooked,  serve  them 
with  some  celery,  salt  and  thin  slices  of  Graham  bread  and  butter. 

TO  COOK  CRABS. 

To  one  dozen  picked  crabs  add  four  rolled  soda  crackers,  a  piece  of 
melted  butter,  one  beaten  ^^^,  pepper  and  salt;  stir  with  a  spoon  and 
make  in  cakes ;  fry  in  hot  lard. 


612  SHELL  FISH. 


DEVILLED  CRAB. 

This  is  prepared  the  same  as  devilled  lobster  (page  614) — substituting 
for  the  coral  in  the  vinegar  some  pulverized  cracker  moistened  first 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  rich  cream.  Serve  up  in  the  back-shell  of  the 
crab,  or  in  a  dish.  Send  in  with  cream  crackers  and  stick  a  sprig  of 
parsley  in  the  top  of  each  heap,  ranging  the  shells  up  on  a  large  flat  dish. 

CRAB  SALAD. 

Mince  the  meat  and  dress  as  in  lobster  salad.  Send  in  on  the  back- 
shell  of  the  crab. 

CHOWDER. 

Slice  six  large  onions  and  fry  in  the  gravy  of  fried  salt  pork ;  cut  five 
pounds  of  bass  or  cod  into  strips  about  three  inches  long  and  one  inch 
thick  and  line  the  bottom  of  a  pot  with  them ;  scatter  in  a  few  slices  of 
onions,  a  little  salt,  half  a  dozen  whole  black  peppers,  one  or  two  cloves, 
a  pinch  of  thyme  and  one  of  parsley,  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  or  mush- 
room catsup  and  six  oysters,  then  a  layer  of  oyster  crackers  buttered 
thickly  and  well  soaked  in  milk,  another  layer  of  fish,  onions,  seasoning, 
and  so  on  until  all  are  used  up ;  cover  with  water,  boil  slowly  for  an 
hour  and  pour  out.  Serve  with  capers  and  sliced  lemon.  A  cup  of 
oyster  liquor  added  to  the  chowder  while  boiling  improves  it. 

FRIED  CLAMS. 

Remove  from  the  shell  large  soft-shell  clams ;  beat  an  ^g'g  well  and 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  ;  have  the  clams  dried  in  a  towel  and 
dip  them  first  in  the  ^^%,  then  in  finely- rolled  cracker  or  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  (longer  than  oysters)  in  sweet  lard  or  butter. 

CLAM  CHOWDER. 

Twenty-five  clams,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pork,  four  medium-sized 
potatoes,  four  teaspoonfuls  minced  onions,  six  sliced  tomatoes  and  t^o 
pilot  biscuits.  Season  to  taste.  Cut  the  salt  pork  in  small  slices  and 
lay  in  the  bottom  of  a  stew  pan  ;  on  that  a  layer  of  potatoes  in  slices ; 
on  the  potatoes  a  layer  of  chopped  onions,  and  then  one  of  tomatoes, 
sliced  or  canned.  Repeat  the  process  until  you  have  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity ;  season  each  layer  with  salt  and  pepper,  thyme,  bay  leaves,  cloves, 
and  terragon  may  also  be  added  to  suit  the  taste.  Pour  over  this  the 
strained  liquor  of  the  clams  and  sufficient  water  to  corn.  Set  on  a 
slow  fire  and  when  half  done  add  the  chopped  clams  and  the  broken 
buiscuits.     Boil  fast  about  twenty-five  minutes  longer. 


SHELL  FISH.  613 

MARYLAND  CHOWDER. 

Take  the  shoulder  of  a  large  cod,  or  good-sized  haddock.  Clean  well 
and  cut  in  uniform  pieces,  two  pounds  of  the  prepared  fish,  half  a  pound 
of  crackers,  two  ounces  of  butter,  one  pint  of  oysters  or  clams,  one  giil 
of  cream,  one  gill  of  water,  one  sliced  onion,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
half  a  teaspoonful  each  of  black  pepper  and  mace.  Put  the  water  in  a 
saucepan  or  clean  iron  pot ;  put  in  the  onion ;  lay  in  half  of  the  fish, 
skin  side  down  ;  sprinkle  over  it  half  the  salt,  pepper,  etc.  ;  then  put  in 
half  the  oysters  or  clams;  cover  them  with  half  the  butter,  in  small 
lumps,  and  half  the  crackers ;  then  the  rest  of  the  fish,  oysters,  season- 
ing, butter  and  crackers  ;  pour  the  cream  over  the  top,  having  first 
boiled  it.  If  the  oysters  or  clams  have  much  liquor,  the  water  will  not 
be  required  ;  if  the  chowder  is  found  too  dry  a  little  more  water  may  be 
added.  Cover  close  and  stew  half  an  hour.  Serve  on  a  platter.  Milk 
may  be  used  instead  of  cream.  Pork  or  bacon  cut  in  small  pieces  gives 
it  a  fine  flavor.  This  dish  differs  from  the  New  England  chowder  in 
being  eaten  with  a  fork  from  a  dinner  plate  instead  of  with  a  spoon 
from  a  soup  plate. 

SCALLOPED  CLAMS. 

Butter  a  deep  tin  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  grated  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  sprinkle  in  pepper  and  bits  of  butter ;  then  put  in  a  layer  of 
clams  chopped  fine,  with  butter  and  pepper  and  repeat  with  alternate 
layers  of  crumbs  and  clams  until  the  dish  is  full.  Let  the  last  layer  be 
of  crumbs  with  plenty  of  butter  on  top ;  put  a  plate  on  it  after  adding 
one  cup  of  rich  milk,  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  take  off  the 
plate  long  enough  to  brown  the  top  nicely  before  serving. 

CLAM  STEW. 

Take  half-peck  hard-shell  clams,  wash  shells  clean,  and  put  in  a  kettle 
with  about  one  teacup  of  water ;  let  steam  until  the  shells  open,  when 
take  out  of  shell,  strain  juice,  and  return  it  with  clams  to  the  fire. 
After  they  come  to  a  boil,  add  one  pint  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of 
an  &^%y  three  crackers  rolled  fine,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

TO  BOIL  A  LOBSTER. 

Choose  a  lively  one — not  too  large — lest  he  should  be  tough.  Put  a 
handful  of  salt  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  having  tied  the  claws 
together,  plunge  it  into  boiling  water.  Boil  from  half  an  hour  to  an 
hour  as  the  size  demands.  When  done,  draw  the  lobster  out,  and  lay 
it,  face  downward,  in  a  sieve  to  dry.  When  cold,  split  open  the  body 
and  tail,  and  crack  the  claws  to  extract  the  meat,  throwing  away  the 
long  fingers  and  the  head. 


614  SHELL  FISH, 

DEVILLED  LOBSTER. 

Extract  the  meat  from  a  boiled  lobster,  as  for  salad,  and  mince  it 
finely ;  reserve  the  coral.  Season  highly  with  mustard,  cayenne,  salt, 
and  some  pungent  sauce.  Toss  and  stir  until  it  is  well  mixed,  and  put 
into  a  porcelain  saucepan  (covered)  with  just  enough  hot  water  to  keep 
it  from  burning.  Rub  the  coral  smooth,  moistening  with  vinegar  until 
it  is  thin  enough  to  pour  easily,  then  stir  into  the  contents  of  the  sauce- 
pan. It  is  necessary  to  prepare  the  dressing  before  the  lobster-meat  is 
set  on  the  fire.  It  ought  to  boil  up  but  once  before  the  coral  and  vin- 
egar are  put  in.  Next  stir  in  a  heaping  spoonful  of  butter,  and  when 
it  boils  again,  take  the  pan  from  the  fire.  Too  much  cooking  toughens 
the  meat.     This  is  a  famous  supper  dish  for  sleighing  parties. 

STEWED  LOBSTER. 

Take  the  meat  from  a  boiled  lobster,  cut  it  up  small  and  put  it  into  a 
stewpan  with  just  enough  water  to  keep  it  from  burning  and  to  make 
the  gravy ;  let  it  simmer  five  minutes,  add  a  teaspoonful  good  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  heat  to  boiling  and  serve  hot. 

LOBSTER  CROQUETTES. 

To  the  meat  of  a  w^ell-boiled  lobster,  chopped  fine,  add  pepper,  salt, 
and  mace  if  liked ;  mix  with  this  one-quarter  as  much  bread  crumbs, 
well  rubbed,  as  you  have  meat ;  make  it  into  pointed  balls,  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter;  roll  these  in  beaten  eggs,  then  in 
cracker  dust,  and  fry  in  butter  or  sweet  lard.  Serve  dry  and  hot  and 
garnish  with  crisp  parsley.  This  is  a  delicious  supper  dish  or  entree  at 
dinner. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

Pick  the  meat  from  the  shell,  cut  into  nice  square  pieces,  cut  up  some 
lettuce  and  mix.  Make  a  dressing  of  four  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  two  of 
vinegar,  one  of  mustard,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Rub  smooth  together  forming  a  creamy  looking  sauce,  and  cover 
the  lobster  with  it.  Garnish  with  sliced  cucumber  pickles,  egg-rings, 
parsley  and  cold  beet  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

BROILED  OYSTERS. 

If  you  have  a  wire  gridiron,  with  the  wires  close  enough  together  to 
prevent  the  oyster  from  dropping  through,  small  ones  can  be  broiled 
without  much  trouble.  They  do  not  need  to  be  turned  over.  When 
done  lay  them  on  slices  of  buttered  toast ;  pepper  and  salt  and  butter 
them. 


SHELL  FISH.  615 


BROILED  OYSTERS  ON  TOAST. 

Use  a  double  gridiron  made  of  wire,  and  cook  over  a  perfectly  clear 
fire  ;  grease  the  gridiron  well  with  the  best  of  table  butter ;  spread  the 
oysters  on  one-half  of  the  gridiron  and  carefully  fold  the  other  half  of 
the  gridiron  down  on  them  ;  place  them  over  a  clear  fire  and  broil.  Do 
this  as  quickly  as  possible,  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other. 
During  the  cooking  turn  the  oysters  in  this  way  once,  and  only  once ; 
be  very  careful  not  to  let  them  burn  or  become  overdone ;  have  ready 
some  of  the  sweetest  and  freshest  table  butter,  already  melted  ;  on  this 
butter  have  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  also,  some  of  the  juice  of  a 
lemon ;  have  ready,  also,  the  toast,  slightly  moistened  in  rich  cream  and 
well  buttered  with  the  choicest  of  butter ;  have  the  toast  cut  in  small 
slices,  not  only  half,  but  quarter  slices ;  on  these  deposit  the  oysters, 
with  a  little  of  the  melted  butter  on  each ;  garnish  tastefully  with  the 
best  of  olives  and  some  of  the  greenest  sprigs  of  fresh  parsley.  Serve 
very,  very  hot.  ^ 

ESCALLOPPED  OYSTERS. 

Take  your  scallop  shell  or  dish  and  butter  and  bread  it,  using  only 
the  sweetest  of  bread  crumbs  and  butter.  On  this  place  a  layer  of 
extra  primes.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Add  another  layer  of 
oysters,  bread  crumbs ;  butter  and  season  again.  Add  a  third  layer  of 
oysters;  also  a  little  butter  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  the  liquor 
of  the  oysters.  Place  in  the  oven  and  allow  to  remain  twenty  minute?. 
Have  in  readiness  a  very  hot  shovel.  Hold  this  over  the  top  until  it  is 
deepened  to  the  rich  brown  of  good  toast  or  a  cup  pound  cake. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 

Use  for  frying  the  largest  and  best  oysters  you  can  get.  Take  them 
from  the  liquor,  lay  them  in  rows  upon  a  clean  cloth  and  press  another 
lightly  upon  them  to  absorb  the  moisture;  have  ready  some  beaten  eggs 
and  some  cracker  dust.  Heat  enough  oil  in  the  pan  to  cover  the  oysters. 
Fry  them  only  in  the  very  best  of  sweet  oil.  Avoid  another  prevailing 
mistake  of  frying  too  much ;  fry  not  to  a  dark  brown,  but  only  to  a 
rich  golden  brown.  The  former  course  tends  to  make  the  oysters 
tough,  while  the  plan  of  frying  only  to  a  deep,  rich  yellow,  leaves  them 
far  more  tender,  and  with  a  much  higher  oyster  flavor.  Dip  each  one 
in  the  ^gg  first,  then  into  the  cracker,  rolling  it  over,  that  it  may  be 
completely  covered.  Drop  them  into  the  frying-pan  and  fry  quickly. 
Do  not  let  them  remain  in  the  pan  an  instant  after  they  are  done. 
Serve  dry,  on  a  hot  dish. 


616  SHELL  FISH. 

OYSTERS  FRIED  IN  BATTER. 

Tak^e  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  ^gg,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  dip  the  oysters  in  the  batter  and  fry  one  at  a 
time,  each  one  having  a  little  batter  on  it. 

FRICASSEED  OYSTERS. 

Parboil  fifty  of  the  freshest  of  extra  prime  oysters,  not  in  water,  but 
in  their  own  juice.  One  good  scald  is  sufficient.  Remove  the  scum 
and  strain  off  all  the  juice.  Put  in  a  hot  tureen  with  cover,  and  set 
aside  in  a  warm  place.  Rub  well  together  six  ounces  of  the  choicest  of 
table  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  scalding  hot  cream  into  a  fine,, 
smooth  paste,  entirely  free  from  lumps  or  grains.  Place  this  in  a  quart 
of  hot  cream  in  a  stew-pan  on  the  fire  and  stir  constantly.  Add  three 
full  saltspoons  of  salt,  two  each  of  ground  white  pepper,  allspice  and 
mace.  Stir  all  until  it  is  thick.  Now  add  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  two 
fresh  eggs.  Strain  the  whole  through  a  fine  sieve.  Pour  the  same  over 
the  oysters.  Cover  thickiy  with  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Place  all  in  a  quick 
oven,  where  allow  to  remain  until  the  top  is  deepened  to  a  rich,  dark 
brown.     Serve  hot. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and  to  a  cup  of  this  add  the  same 
quantity  of  milk,  three  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  for  a  thin 
batter.  Chop  the  oysters  and  stir  into  the  batter.  Have  ready  in  the 
frying-pan  a  few  spoonfuls  of  sweet  lard,  or  half  lard  and  half  butter ; 
heat  very  hot  and  drop  the  oyster  batter  in  by  the  spoonful.  Try  a 
spoonful  first  to  be  sure  the  lard  is  hot  enough  and  the  fritter  of  the 
right  consistency.  Take  from  the  pan  as  soon  as  they  are  done  a  light 
brown,  and  serve  as  soon  as  possible. 

OYSTER  OMELET. 

Twelve  oysters,  if  large,  double  the  number,  if  small;  six  eggs,  one 
cup  of  milk,  one  tablespoonfui  of  butter,  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Chop  the  oysters  very  fine ;  beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs 
separately,  as  for  nice  cake,  the  whites  until  it  stands  in  a  heap.  Put 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  heat  while  you  are 
mixing  the  omelet.  Stir  the  milk  into  a  deep  dish,  wiih  the  yolks  and 
seasoning.  Next  add  the  chopped  oysters,  heating  them  well  as  you 
add  gradually.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  pour  m  melted  butter,  and 
finally  whip  in  the  whites  as  lightly  as  possible.  Have  the  butter  in  the 
pan  very  hot,  and  pour  in  the  mixture.  Do  not  stir  it,  but  when  it 
begins  to  stiffen  slip  a  broad-bladed  knife  around  the  sides,  and  cau- 
tiously under  the  omelet,  that  the  butter  may  reach  every  part.  As 
soon  as  the  center  is  fairly  set,  and  the  bottom  brown,  turn  out  into  a 


OYSTERS.  617 

hot  dish.  Lay  the  dish  bottom  upward  over  the  frying-pan,  which 
must  be  turned  upside  down  dexterously.  This  brings  the  brown  side 
of  the  omelet  uppermost.  This  is  a  delicious  breakfast  or  supper 
omelet. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 

Line  some  small  patty  pans  with  fine  puff  paste  rolled  thin,  and  to 
preserve  their  form  when  baked  put  a  bit  of  bread  in  each,  lay  on  the 
cover,  trim  the  edges  and  place  the  patties  in  a  brisk  oven.  Drain  the 
oysters,  put  them  in  a  saucepan,  throw  in  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  with 
an  ounce  of  butter,  salt  and  spice  to  suit;  stir  the  whole  over  a  gentle 
fire  two  or  three  minutes,  adding  by  slow  degrees  three  spoonfuls  of 
cream ;  then  pour  in  the  Uquor  of  the  oysters  and  let  all  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Raise  the  covers  of  the  patties,  take  out  the  bread,  fill  them 
with  oysters  and  sauce,  replace  the  covers  and  serve  hot. 

OYSTER  LOAF. 

Cut  a  round  piece,  five  inches  across,  from  the  top  of  a  nicely  baked 
round  loaf  of  bread ;  remove  the  crumbs,  leaving  the  crust  half  an 
inch  thick ;  make  a  rich  oyster  stew  and  put  it  in  the  loaf  in  layers, 
sprinkled  with  bread  crumbs ;  place  the  cover  over  the  top,  cover  the 
loaf  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  ^gg  and  put  it  in  the  oven  to  glaze. 
Serve  very  hot. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS. 

Place  the  oysters  in  a  saucepan,  let  them  simmer  in  their  own  liquor 
for  about  ten  minutes  very  gently.  Take  them  out  one  by  one,  place 
them  in  a  jar,  cover  them  and  when  cold  add  a  pickle  made  as  follows : 
Measure  the  oyster  liquor,  add  to  it  the  same  quantity  of  vmegar,  one 
blade  of  pounded  mace,  one  strip  of  lemon  peel  and  cloves  and  boil  five 
minutes.  When  cold  pour  over  the  oysters  and  tie  them  down  very 
closely. 

CANNED  PICKLED  OYSTERS. 

One  hundred  large  oysters,  one  pint  white  wine  vinegar,  one  dozen 
blades  of  mace,  two  dozen  whole  cloves,  two  dozen  whole  black  pep- 
pers, one  large  red  pepper  broken  into  bits.  Put  oysters,  liquor  and  all, 
into  a  porcelain  kettle.  Salt  to  the  taste.  Heat  slowly  until  the  oysters 
are  very  hot,  but  not  boiling.  Take  them  out  with  a  perforated  skim- 
mer and  set  aside  to  cool.  To  the  liquor  which  remains  in  the  kettle 
add  the  vinegar  and  spices.  Boil  up  fairly,  and  \yhen  the  oysters  are 
nearly  cold,  pour  it  over  them  scalding  hot.  Cover  and  put  away  in  a 
cool  place.  Next  day  put  them  into  glass  cans  with  tight  tops.  If  you 
open  a  can  use  up  the  contents  as  soon  as  possible. 


618  SHELL  FISH. 


ROASTED  OYSTERS. 


Select  the  desired  quantity  of  the  freshest  and  best  quality  of  large 
oysters,  such  as  you  would  for  the  finest  fry ;  wash  the  shells  until  they 
are  as  clean  as  polished  marble ;  place  them  in  a  dripping-pan  with  the 
round  shell  down  ;  put  in  a  hot  oven  about  twenty  minutes  ;  remove 
one  of  the  shells  (the  round  one)  only  when  you  come  to  eat  them, 
placing  on  each  a  small  piece  of  the  freshest  and  sweetest  of  table 
butler,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  a  fresh,  bright 
lemon. 

SPICED  OYSTERS. 

For  two  hundred  oysters,  take  one  pint  vinegar,  one  grated  nutmeg, 
eight  blades  of  whole  mace,  three  dozen  whole  cloves,  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  whole  allspice,  and  as  much  red  pepper  as  will  lie 
on  the  point  of  a  knife ;  put  the  oysters,  with  their  liquor,  into  a  large 
earthen  vessel;  add  vinegar  and  all  other  ingredients;  stir  well  together 
and  set  over  a  slow  fire ;  keep  covered ;  stir  them  several  times  to  the 
bottom  ;  as  soon  as  they  are  well  scalded  they  are  done  ;  put  into  jars ; 
if  a  larger  quantity  is  made  it  can  be  kept  for  a  long  time ;  of  course 
these  are  eaten  cold. 

STEWED  OYSTERS. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  two  quarts  of  firm,  plump  oysters  ;  mix  with  it 
a  small  teacup  of  hot  water,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  set  over  the  fire 
in  a  saucepan.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  a  large  cup  of  rich  milk 
(cream  is  better).  Let  it  boil  up  once,  put  in  the  oysters  and  let  them 
boil  five  minutes,  no  more.  When  they  are  "  ruffled  "  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  the  instant  it  is  well  stirred  in  and  melted,  take 
the  saucepan  from  the  fire,  as  oysters  get  tough  and  tasteless  if  cooked 
too  long.     Serve  with  oyster  or  cream  crackers. 


STEWED  OYSTERS  WITH  CELERY. 

In  a  large  stew-pan  put  a  pint  of  strong  and  clear  broth,  made  of  the 
choicest  cuts  of  beef.  Instead  of  milk  and  water,  or  milk  even,  as  the 
prevailing  practice  is,  use  only  the  sweetest  and  richest  of  cream.  Of 
this  cream  add  one  pint  to  the  same  quantity  of  best  of  beef  broth. 
Also  four  ounces  of  the  most  excellent  table  butter,  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt,  two  of  white  pepper,  as  much  more  of  ground  mace,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  extract  of  celery.  If  the  celery  is  to  be  had  in  stalk 
chop  up  fine  and  throw  in.  No  more  delicate  or  healthy  flavor  can  be 
added  to  any  stew,  soup  or  broth  than  this  exquisite  vegetable.  Now 
set  to  cooking,  and  while  on  the  fire  dredge  in  finely  powdered  cracker 
dust  and  a  little  of  the  best  corn  starch  flour,  until  thickened  to  your 
taste.     Have  ready  parboiled  (not  in  water,  but  in  their  own  juice)  fifty 


SOUPS.  619 

of  the  best  quality  of  oysters  in  a  hot  tureen.  Pour  over  these  par- 
boiled oysters  the  sauce  compounded  as  above  and  serve  while  still 
scalding  hot. 

STEWED  OYSTERS  ON  TOAST. 

Take  the  quantity  of  oysters  needed,  drain  them  in  a  colander ;  put 
them  in  a  frying-pan  with  pepper,  salt  and  cream  ;  put  two  ounces  of 
butter  in  a  platter  over  the  steam  of  a  kettle,  and  when  the  oysters  are 
puffed  pour  them  into  the  melted  butter  and  serve  on  toast. 

WATER  TURTLES  OR  TERRAPINS. 

Plunge  the  turtle  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  lie  there  five 
minutes,  you  can  then  skin  the  tender  part  easily,  and  pull  off  the  horny 
parts  of  the  feet.  Lay  it  for  ten  minutes  in  cold  salt  and  water  ;  then 
put  into  more  hot  water,  salted,  but  not  too  much.  Boil  until  tender. 
The  time  will  depend  upon  the  size  and  age.  Take  it  out,  drain  and 
wipe  dry ;  loosen  the  shell  carefully,  not  to  break  the  flesh ;  cut  open 
also  with  care,  lest  you  touch  the  gall  bag  with  the  knife.  Remove  this 
with  the  entrails  and  sand  bag.  Cut  all  the  rest  of  the  turtle  into  small 
bits,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  chopped  onion,  sweet  herbs,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  some  spiced  sauce,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  catsup — ^walnut  or 
mushroom.  Save  the  juice  that  runs  from  the  meat,  and  put  all 
together  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  closely-fitting  top.  Stew  gently  fifteen 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally,  and  add  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  a 
tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  wet  in  cold  water,  a  glass  of  brown 
sherry,  and  lastly,  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg,  mixed  with  a  little  of  the 
hot  liquor,  that  it  may  not  curdle.  Boil  up  once,  and  turn  into  a  cov- 
ered dish.  Send  around  green  pickles  and  delicate  slices  of  dry  toast 
with  it. 


SOUPS. 


VEGETABLE  AND  MEAT. 


The  basis  of  all  good  soups  is  the  juice  of  meat.  This  may  be  made 
by  boiling  the  cracked  joints  of  uncooked  beef,  veal  or  mutton  ;  to 
these  may  be  added  the  cracked  bones  of  cooked  game  or  underdone 
beef  or  mutton,  but  for  juices  and  nourishment  depend  upon  the  juices 
of  the  uncooked  meat,  the  rest  being  only  added  for  flavoring.  To  extract 
the  juices,  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  break  the  bone  the  whole 
length,  put  into  cold  water,  without  salt,  and  let  heat  very  slowly_ 
When  it  once  comes  to  a  boil,  let  it  be  well  skimmed,  and  then  put  the 
pot  where  it  will  simmer  slowly  until  the  meat  is  thoroughly  done  and 
freed  from  the  juices,  keeping  the  pot  closely  covered  the  while.     The 


020  SOUPS. 

next  day,  when  the  soup  is  cold,  remove  the  fat,  which  will  harden  on 
top  of  the  soup.  All  soups  are  better  for  being  made  one  day  before 
using,  and  the  next  day  put  on  the  stove  and  the  vegetables- added. 

This  is  the  basis  of  almost  all  gravy  soups,  which  are  called  by  the 
name  of  the  vegetables  that  are  put  into  them  :  carrots,  turnips,  onions, 
celery,  and  a  few  leaves  of  cabbage,  make  what  is  called  spring  soup  ;  to 
this  a  pint  of  green  peas,  or  asparagus,  or  French  beans  cut  into  pieces, 
or  a  cabbage  lettuce,  is  an  improvement.  With  rice,  Scotch  barley,  or 
vermicelli,  maccaroni  or  celery,  cut  into  lengths,  it  will  be  the  soup 
usually  called  by  those  names.  Or  turnips  scooped,  round  or  young 
onions,  will  give  a  clear  turnip  or  onion  soup.  The  roots  and  vege- 
tables used  must  be  boiled  first,  or  they  will  impregnate  the  soup  with 
too  strong  a  flavor.  Seasoning  for  those  soups  is  the  same,  viz.,  salt, 
and  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper. 

Caramel  (which  is  only  a  fancy  name  for  burned  sugar)  eggs,  and 
slices  of  bread,  fried  to  a  crisp  in  butter,  are  also  sometimes  added, 
and  impart  a  savory  relish  to  the  soup. 

To  make  soup  attractive,  therefore  palatable,  always  strain  it  before 
sending  to  the  table.  Do  not  uncover  until  ready  to  ladle  out  the  soup 
and  be  sure  to  have  the  soup  plates  heated  beforehand. 

TOMATO  PASTE  FOR  SOUP. 

Peel  the  tomatoes  and  stew  them  quite  dry ;  then  put  them  on  plates 
and  stand  in  the  sun  to  dry ;  when  dried  into  a  paste,  put  it  into  jars 
and  tie  them  down ;  this  can  be  kept  all  winter,  if  put  in  a  cool,  dry 
place. 

EGG  BALLS  FOR  SOUP. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  three  or  four  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste, 
with  a  little  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt ;  to  these  add  two  raw  eggs, 
beat  in  light ;  add  enough  flour  to  hold  the  paste  together;  make  into 
balls,  with  floured  hands,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  until  just  before  the 
soup  comes  off,  then  put  in  carefully  and  boil  one  minute. 

FARINA  BALLS. 

Boil  three  cups  of  milk  ;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt 
and  one  cup  of  farina  stirred  in  when  boiling  ;  when  cold  add  two  eggs; 
mix  well  and  roll  into  small  balls.     These  are  excellent  for  soup. 

OUR  FAVORITE  SOUP. 

Take  a  soup  bone,  or  any  bones  that  may  be  left  from  waste  meat ; 
beef,  or  the  remains  of  a  roast  chicken  are  particularly  nice.  After 
boiling,  set  aside  until  the  fat  can  be  removed.  Then  set  on  the  stove 
an  hour  before  dinner  ;  cut  up  a  small  onion,  a  potato,  some  turnip, 
carrot,  and  parsley.     A  little  rice  is  nice  when  one  is  short   of  vege- 


SOUPS.  o_l 

tables.  Brown  a  tablespoonful  or  more  of  flour,  according  to  the  quan- 
tity of  soup ;  wet  it  with  cold  water,  and  then  thicken  the  soup  with 
it  a  very  little.  Add  half  a  teaspoonful  each  of  black  and  red  pepper,  salt 
to  taste  and  spices,  if  liked. 

BARLEY  SOUP. 

One  teacup  pearl  barley  in  about  one  pint  cold  water ;  bring  to  the 
boil  till  it  swells ;  boil  in  a  tin  pail  in  hot  water,  four  quarts  milk  ;  put 
in  your  barley  and  keep  simmering  for  three  or  four  hours  ;  and  then, 
serving,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  < 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Two  young  fowls,  or  one  full-grown  ;  half  pound  pickled  ham  or 
pork  ;  one  gallon  water ;  cut  the  fowls  in  pieces,  put  into  the  pot  with 
the  ham  or  pork,  and  one  quart  of  water,  or  enough  to  cover  them  ; 
stew  for  an  hour,  or  until  you  can  cut  easily  into  the  breast ;  take  out  the 
breasts,  leaving  the  rest  of  the  meat  in  the  pot,  and  add  the  remainder 
of  the  water,  boiling  hot ;  keep  the  soup  stirring  slowly  while  you  chop 
up  the  breasts  ;  rub  the  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs  smooth,  moisten- 
ing to  a  paste  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  soup  ;  mix  with  these  a  handful 
of  fine  bread  crumbs  and  the  chopped  meat,  and  make  it  into  small 
balls.  When  the  soup  has  boiled  in  all  two-and-a-half  hours,  if  the 
chicken  be  reduced  to  shreds,  strain  the  meat  and  bones  ;  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley ;  drop  in  the  balls  of  force-meat, 
and  after  boiling  ten  minutes  incorporate  the  ingredients  thoroughly ; 
add,  a  little  at  a  time,  one  pint  of  rich  milk  thickened  with  a  little  flour ; 
boil  up  once  and  serve. 

BEEF  SOUP. 

Put  on  your  kettle  by  eight  o'clock  in  the  morning ;  break  up  four  or 
five  pounds  of  a  beef  shank ;  boil  it  slowly  in  water  enough  for  your 
soup  ;  an  hour  before  you  wish  to  serve,  cut  up  four  or  five  potatoes, 
half-a-dozen  small  onions  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  rice,  and,  if  you 
wish,  a  little  cabbage  and  celery  ;  boil  slowly  till  the  dinner  is  to  be 
served  ;  remove  the  bones,  and  if  you  prefer  it  clear,  strain  off  the  vege- 
tables through  a  colander  or  sieve.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  It 
is  a  good  and  economical  plan  to  put  the  roast  beef  bones  and  ends  of 
beefsteak  into  your  soup  kettle  for  stock.  Then  you  can  use  it  for 
tomato  or  cabbage  soup  and  save  all  the  waste. 

BEAN  SOUP. 

Put  the  beans  into  a  kettle,  pour  on  enough  water  to  cover,  and  when 
they  commence  to  boil  stir  in  a  small  piece  of  soda  and  let  boil  up  once ; 
pour  off  the  water,  put  on  fresh  with  a  small  piece  of  pork,  and  let  them 
cook  until  well  done,  then  dip  out  the  beans  and  press  them  through  a 


622  SOUPS. 

colander  into  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled ;  tie  up  some  thyme 
in  a  little  bag,  put  in  the  pot  to  simmer  a  few  minutes  ;  boil  hard  a  few 
eggs,  quarter  and  put  eggs  into  the  soup,  and  a  sliced,  lemon,  a  little 
butter,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  A  piece  of  fresh  raw  beef 
added  with  the  seasoning  is  a  great  improvement ;  let  it  remain  in  until 
well  done  through,  but  do  not  serve  it  in  the  soup ;  or  rich  milk  and  but- 
ter may  be  substituted  for  the  beef. 

CLAM  SOUP. 

Cut  salt  pork  into  very  small  squares  and  fry  light  brown  ;  add  one 

large  or  two  small  onions  cut  very  fine,  and  cook  about  ten  minutes ; 
add  two  quarts  of  water  and  one  quart  of  raw  potatoes  sliced ;  let  it 
boil,  then  add  one  quart  of  clams.  Mix  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and 
water,  add  to  it  one  pint  of  milk,  pour  into  the  soup  and  let  it  boil  about 
five  minutes.  Add  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Worcestershire 
sauce  may  be  added  if  liked. 

GAME  SOUP. 

Two  rabbits,  one-half  pound  of  lean  lamb,  two  medium-sized  onions, 
one  pound  of  lean  beef ;  fried  bread  ;  butter  for  frying ;  pepper,  salt  and 
two  stalks  of  white  celery  cut  into  inch  lengths ;  three  quarts  of  water. 
Joint  the  game  neatly ;  cut  the  lamb  and  onions  into  small  pieces,  and 
fry  all  in  butter  to  a  light  brown.  Put  into  a  soup-pot  with  the  beef ; 
cut  into  strips  and  add  a  little  pepper.  Pour  on  the  water ;  heat  slowly 
and  stew  gently  two  hours.  Take  out  the  pieces  and  cover  in  a  bowl ; 
cook  the  soup  an  hour  longer ;  strain,  cool,  drop  in  the  celery  and  sim- 
mer ten  minutes.     Pour  upon  fried  bread  in  the  tureen. 

GUMBO  SOUP. 

Put  on  half  a  peck  of  tomatoes  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  let  them 
stew ;  have  half  a  peck  of  ochra  cut  in  fine  shreds  ;  put  them  with 
thyme,  parsley  and  an  onion  cut  fine,  into  the  tomatoes  and  let  them 
cook  until  quite  tender.  Fricassee  a  chicken  in  ham  gravy ;  then  take 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  little  vinegar,  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  season  to 
taste,  beating  the  eggs  into  the  vinegar ;  pour  this  over  the  chicken, 
and  put  all  then  into  the  tomatoes,  letting  the  kettle  be  nearly  filled 
with  water.     Boil  all  together  four  or  five  hours. 

IRISH  STEW. 

To  two  pounds  of  mutton  (cut  ribs)  add  three  quarts  of  water ;  then 
slice  up  about  four  onions  ;  boil  about  half  an  hour ;  then  pare  one 
dozen  medium-sized  potatoes  and  put  in  with  the  meat ;  when  very 
nearly  done  add  thickening  made  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour ;  mix 
well  with  water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  taste.  Dumplings 
may  be  added  to  this. 


SOUPS.  623 

LOBSTER  SOUP. 

One  large  lobster  or  two  small  ones ;  pick  all  the  meat  from  the  shell 
and  chop  fine  ;  scald  one  quart  of  milk  and  one  pint  of  water ;  then  add 
the  lobster,  one  pound  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  salt  and 
red  pepper  to  taste.     Boil  ten  minutes  and  serve  hot. 

NOODLE  SOUP. 

Two  eggs  mixed  with  flour,  and  a  little  salt ;  roll  it  out  like  pie  crust, 
only  make  it  thin  as  possible  ;  set  it  away  till  dried  a  little  ;  when  ready 
for  soup  roll  the  crust  all  up  with  the  hands  and  cut  it  into  very  thin 
shoes  from  the  end,  which  pull  out  so  they  seem  hke  a  string.  Have 
some  w^ater  with  milk,  pepper,  salt  and  butter  heating,  or  chicken  soup, 
into  which  drop  the  strings  of  noodle ;  then  let  them  boil  up  about  five 
minutes,  when  they  will  be  done.  A  nice  addition  is  green  com  off  the 
cob,  boiled  up  in  the  milk. 

MUTTON  SOUP. 
Boil  a  leg  of  mutton  three  hours,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  a 
teaspoonful  summer  savory ;  make  a  batter  of  one  egg,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  milk,  two  of  flour,  all  well  beaten  together ;  drop  this  batter  into  the 
soup  with  a  spoon  and  boil  three  minutes. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  through  a  colander.  Put  the  hquor 
over  the  fire  wiih  half  as  much  water,  salt,  pepper  and  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  for  each  quart  of  soup.  Let  it  boil  up  well  and  put 
in  the  oysters.  Heat  slowly,  and  as  they  "ruffle,"  which  should  be 
about  five  minutes  after  they  reach  the  boil,  strain  off  the  soup.  Have 
in  another  vessel  as  much  boiling  milk  as  there  was  oyster  liquor. 
Pour  the  oysters  into  a  tureen,  put  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  upon 
them ;  when  it  melts  entirely  turn  in  the  milk.  Stir  in  well,  add  the  hot 
soup,  cover,  and  serve  with  cabbage  and  crackers  crisped  in  the  oven. 
Half  a  pint  of  rich  cream  is  a  great  improvement  and  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  butter. 

PARSNIP   STEW. 

First  take  and  clean  your  parsnips  thoroughly,  cut  them  lengthwise 
and  quarter  them  ;  have  ready  some  nice  salt  pork,  and  place  it  in  the 
bottom  of  a  flat-bottomed  kettle,  and  fry  brown  ;  when  done,  remove 
from  the  kettle,  take  the  parsnips  and  lay  them  evenly  on  the  bottom  of 
the  kettle,  using  half  of  them  ;  take  the  pork  scraps  and  lay  them  on 
the  parsnips  ;  put  on  the  remainder  of  them,  and  season  with  salt,  pep- 
per and  a  sprig  of  thyme  ;  then  put  on  water  enough  to  cover  them. 
When  nearly  done,  have  ready  some  dumplings  the  size  of  a  tea  biscuit, 
put  in  and  cover  closely ;  let  them  cook  fifteen  minutes  without 
removing  the  cover. 


624  SOUPS, 


PEA  SOUP. 

Take  a  pint  of  split  peas  and  let  them  soak  all  night ;  put  on  a  beef 
bone  very  early  and  cover  it  with  water;  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises  ; 
place  your  peas  on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  boil  soft ;  when  done,  mash 
them  and  add  the  soup ;  take  your  vegetables,  two  onions,  one  carrot, 
one  turnip,  pare  and  cut  into  sUces,  not  too  large  ;  add  to  the  soup 
about  an  hour  before  serving ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  add 
the  peas,  but  be  careful  not  to  let  the  soup  burn. 

POTATO  SOUP. 

Pare  four  or  five  good  sized  potatoes  and  slice  thin  ;  put  in  a  dish, 
cover  with  hot  water  and  boil  until  done  ;  turn  out  the  potatoes  and 
mash  fine,  put  back  in  the  water,  and  add  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  a  cup 
of  rich  sweet  cream  and  water  enough  for  the  required  quantity  of 
soup.  Some  prefer  to  season  it  with  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork,  not  very 
fat. 

SCOTCH  BROTH. 

Two  pounds  of  the  scraggy  part  of  the  neck  of  mutton.     Cut  the 

meat  from  the  bone  and    cut  off  all  the  fat ;  cut  the  meat  into  small 

pieces ;  put  into  a  soup  pot  with  one  large  slice  of  turnip,  two  carrots, 

one  onion,  one  stalk  of  parsley,  one-half  cup  of  barley,  three  pints  ot 

water,  and  boil  gently  two  hours.     On  the  bones  put  one  pint  of  water, 

boil  two  hours  and  then  strain  on  the  soup.     Cook  one   spoonful  of 

flour  and  one  of  butter  together  until  perfectly  smooth,  then  stir  into  the 

soup  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of   chopped  parsley.     Season  with  salt 

and  pepper. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

To  one  pint  tomatoes  canned,  or  four  large  raw  ones  cut  fine,  add  one 
quart  boiling  water  and  let  them  boil.  Then  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  when  it  will  foam  ;  immediately  add  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  plenty  of  butter.  When  this  boils,  add  eight  small 
crackers  rolled  fine  and  serve.  Equal  to  oyster  soup.  A  very  nice 
flavor  for  tomato  soup  is  stale  bread  cut  into  thin  slices  and  fried  brown 
in  drippings  or  lard,  then  salted  and  cut  into  dice-shaped  pieces  and 
served  in  the  soup  when  dished  up. 

TURKEY  SOUP. 

Take  the  turkey  bones  and  cook  one  hour  in  water  enough  to  cover 
them  ;  stir  in  a  Uttle  dressing  and  a  beaten  ^gg ;  take  from  the  fire,  and 
when  the  water  ceases  to  boil  add  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

GREEN  TURTLE   SOUP. 

A  glass  of  wine,  two  onions,  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  juice  of  one 
lemon,  five  quarts  of  water.     Chop  up  the  coarser  parts  of  the  turtle 


SOUPS.  625 

(directions  for  cooking  turtle  given  in  "  Shell  Fish  "),  with  the  entrails 
and  bones.  Add  to  them  four  quarts  of  water,  and  stew  four  hours 
with  the  herbs,  onions,  pepper  and  salt.  Stew  very  slowly,  but  do  not 
let  it  cease  to  boil  during  this  time.  At  the  end  of  four  hours  strain 
the  soup,  and  add  the  finer  parts  of  the  turtle  and  the  green  fat,  which 
has  been  simmered  for  one  hour  in  two  quarts  of  water.  Thicken  with 
browned  fiour,  return  to  the  soup  pot,  and  simmer  gently  an  hour 
longer.  If  there  are  eggs  in  the  turtle,  boil  them  in  a  separate  vessel 
for  four  hours,  and  throw  into  the  soup  before  taking  it  up.  If  not, 
put  in  mock  eggs,  then  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  the  wine;  beat  up 
once  and  pour  out.  Some  cooks  add  the  finer  meat  before  straining, 
boiling  all  together  five  hours  ;  then  strain,  thicken,  and  put  in  the 
green  fat,  cut  into  pieces  an  inch  long.  This  makes  a  finer  looking 
soup  than  if  the  meat  is  left  in. 

For  the  mock  eggs  take  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  one 
raw  &gg  well  beaten.  Rub  the  boiled  eggs  into  a  paste  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter,  tried  with  the  raw  ^gg\  roll  into  pellets  the  size  and 
shape  of  turtle-eggs,  and  lay  in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes  before 
dropping  into  the  soup. 

OX  TAIL  SOUP. 

Two  OX  tails,  two  whole  onions,  two  carrots,  one  small  turnip,  two 
tablespoonf uls  of  flour,  a  little  white  pepper,  and  one  gallon  of  water ; 
boil  all  two  hours  ;  then  take  out  the  tails  and  cut  the  meat  in  small 
pieces ;  return  the  bones  to  the  pot  for  a  short  time;  boil  another  hour; 
strain  the  soup  ;  add  two  spoonfuls  of  arrow  root  to  the  meat,  and  boil 
all  quarter  of  an  hour. 

VEAL  SOUP. 

A  three-pound  joint  of  veal,  well  broken  in  four  quarts  of  water,  and 
set  over  the  fire  to  boil ;  prepare  a  quarter  pound  of  macaroni  by  boil- 
ing it  by  itself  with  water  enough  to  cover;  add  a  little  butter  to  the 
macaroni  when  it  is  tender ;  strain  the  soup  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  then  add  the  maccaroni  and  water  in  which  it  was  boiled.  A 
pint  of  rich  milk  or  cream  and  celery  flavor  is  relished  by  many,  if 
added. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Get  a  joint  of  beef,  have  the  bones  sawed,  not  broken,  and  put  in  the 
soup  kettle  with  about  six  quarts  of  cold  water ;  bring  to  a  boil  and 
skim ;  let  it  cook  steadily  four  or  five  hours,  supplying  more  water,  if  it 
boils  away  too  much.  About  two  hours  before  the  dinner  hour,  put  in 
a  cup  of  pearl  barley,  and  an  hour  before  dinner  put  in  the  following 
vegetables,  grated  :  one  turnip,  two  small  carrots,  or  one  large  one,  two 
tablespoonfuls  dried  celery  leaves.  If  you  have  not  the  leaves,  use  the 
celery  green  ;  season  to  taste,  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  tomatoes,  if  Hked  ;  cut  five  or  six  potatoes  into  small  pieces  and  put 
in  with  the  other  vegetables. 
40 


VEGETABLES, 


VERMICELLI. 

A  knuckle  of  lamb,  a  small  piece  of  veal,  and  v/ater  to  cover  well ; 
when  well  cooked,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  herbs  to  taste,  and  a  small 
onion,  to  which  may  be  added  (or  not),  about  a  tablespoonful  of  Wor- 
cestershire sauce.  Have  ready  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  vermi- 
celli, which  has  been  boiled  tender;  strain  the  soup  from  the  meat, 
add  the  vermicelli,  let  it  boil  well  and  serve. 


VEGETABLES. 

Always  boil  vegetables  in  soft  water,  if  you  can  procure  it ;  if  not, 
put  a  teaspoonful  or  more  of  carbonate  of  soda  in  it  to  render  it  so. 
The  water  should  be  freshly  drawn,  and  should  be  put  over  the  fire  only 
in  time  to  reach  the  boiling  point  before  the  hour  for  putting  in  veget- 
ables, as  standing  and  long  boiling  frees  the  gases  and  renders  the 
water  insipid.  The  fresher  all  vegetables  are  the  more  wholesome. 
Take  care  to  wash  and  cleanse  them  from  dust  and  other  impurities, 
before  putting  them  into  the  pot  or  pan  ;  they  should  be  thoroughly 
cleansed,  for  which  purpose  it  will  be  necessary  to  open  the  leaves  of 
all  greens. 

It  is  best  to  boil  vegetables,  if  possible,  by  themselves.  The  quicker 
they  boil  the  greener  they  will  be.  When  vegetables  are  quite  fresh 
gathered,  they  require  much  less  boiling  than  those  that  have  been  kept. 
Strong  scented  vegetables  ought  to  be  kept  apart.  If  onions,  leeks  and 
celery,  are  laid  among  such  delicate  vegetables  as  cauliflowers,  they 
will  spoil  in  a  very  short  time.  In  boiling  vegetables,  if  they  sink  they 
are  generally  done  enough,  if  the  water  has  been  kept  constantly  boil- 
ing. When  done,  take  them  up  immediately,  and  thoroughly  drain. 
If  vegetables  are  a  minute  too  long  over  the  fire,  they  lose  all  their 
beauty  and  flavor.  If  not  thoroughly  boiled  tender,  they  are  tremen- 
dously indigestible  ;  and  much  more  troublesome  during  their  residence 
in  the  stomach,  than  underdone  meats. 

Vegetables  are  in  greatest  perfection,  when  in  greatest  plenty,  and 
they  are  only  in  greatest  plenty  when  in  full  season.  All  vegetables  are 
best  when  they  are  so  cheap  as  to  enable  the  artisan  to  eat  them.  Very 
early  peas,  or  very  early  potatoes — that  is,  peas  or  potatoes  raised  by  arti- 
ficial means — may  be  valued  as  great  rarities,  but  for  nothing  else. 
The  same  thing  may  be  asserted  of  nearly  all  other  vegetables ;  early 
rhubarb  is  perhaps  an  exception.  All  vegetables  should  be  ripe;  that 
is,  ripe  as  vegetables ;  otherwise,  like  fruits,  they  are  bad  tasting  and 
imwholesome. 


VEGETABLES.  62T 

With  regard  to  the  quahty  of  vegetables,  the  middle  size  are  to  be 
preferred  to  the  very  large.  Green  vegetables,  such  as  cabbages,  cau- 
liflowers; etc.,  should  be  eaten  fresh,  before  the  life  is  out  of  them. 
When  once  dead,  they  are  good  for  nothing  but  to  throw  away. 

Greens,  roots,  salads,  etc.,  etc.,  when  they  have  lost  their  freshness 
by  long  keeping,  may  be  refreshed  a  little  by  putting  them  in  cold  spring 
water  for  an  hour  or  two  before  they  are  dressed ;  but  this  process  will 
not  make  them  equal  to  those  which  are  gathered  just  before  they  are 
boiled. 

Old  potatoes  should  stand  in  cold  water  for  several  hours ;  put  them 
in  immediately  after  they  are  peeled,  as  exposure  to  the  air  darkens 
them.  Before  putting  on  to  boil,  take  out  of  the  water  and  dry  with  a 
towel.  New  potatoes  are  best  baked.  If  you  wish  to  have  potatoes 
mealy,  do  not  let  them  stop  boiling  for  an  instant ;  and  when  they  ^re 
done,  turn  the  water  off,  and  let  them  steam  a  few  moments  over  the 
fire  with  the  cover  off.  Or  peel  them,  and  put  them  in  a  pan  over  steam 
to  cook.  They  will  be  mealy  and  white  and  look  like  large  snow-balls. 
Green  corn  and  peas  should  be  prepared  and  cooked  at  once.  Onions 
should  be  soaked  in  warm  salt  water,  one  hour  before  cooking,  to 
remove  the  rank  flavor.  Never  split  onions,  turnips  or  carrots,  but  cut 
them  crosswise,  as  they  thus  cook  tender  much  quicker. 

In  boiling  vegetables  there  should  be  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  for  each 
two  quarts  of  water.  Nearly  all  vegetables  are  eaten  dressed  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter,  but  sometimes  a  small  piece  of  lean  pork  is  boiled 
with  them  which  seasons  them  sufficiently. 

Egg  plants  should  be  picked  when  full  grown,  but  before  they  are 
ripe.  A  little  sugar  added  to  peas,  beets,  corn,  squash,  turnips,  and 
pumpkin  is  an  improvement,  especially  when  the  vegetables  are  not  of 
prime  quality.  Sweet  potatoes  require  longer  to  cook  than  the  common 
variety.  In  gathering  asparagus,  never  cut  it  off,  but  snap  or  break  it ; 
in  this  way  you  do  not  get  the  white  woody  part,  which  no  boiling  will 
make  tender.  Do  the  same  way  with  rhubarb,  taking  it  close  to  the 
ground  and  being  careful  it  does  not  split. 

Cabbage,  potatoes,  carrots,  turnips,  parsnips,  onions  and  beets  lose 
their  flavor  by  being  cooked  with  meat,  as  also  does  the  meat.  When 
vegetables  are  to  be  served  with  salt  meat,  the  meat  should  be  cooked 
first,  and  then  removed  and  the  vegetables  cooked  in  the  liquor,  except 
in  boiled  dinner.  A  piece  of  red  pepper,  the  size  of  the  finger  nail, 
dropped  into  vegetables  when  first  beginning  to  cook,  will  add  greatly 
m  killing  the  unpleasant  odor,  or  a  small  piece  of  bread  crust  will  do 
the  same  service.  This  fact  is  worth  remembering  in  cooking  onions 
and  vegetables. 

When  green  peas  have  become  old  and  yellow,  they  may  be  made 


62S  VEGETABLES, 

tender  and  green  by  sprinkling  in  a  pinch  or  two  of  pearlash  while  they 
are  boiling.     Old  potatoes  are  improved  in  the  same  way. 

Succulent  vegetables,  such  as  cabbages,  and  all  sorts  of  greens,  are 
best  preserved  in  a  cool,  damp,  and  shady  place.  Potatoes,  turnips, 
carrots,  and  similar  roots,  intended  to  be  stored  up,  should  never,  on 
any  account,  be  cleaned  from  the  earth  adhering  to  them,  till  they  are 
to  be  dressed. 

TO  BOIL  ASPARAGUS. 

Clean  the  stalks  of  grit,  wash  in  cold  water  and  be  sure  to  tie  up  the 
asparagus  in  bundles  of  fifteen  or  twenty  when  you  go  to  boil  them. 
Have  the  water  on  the  full  boil,  in  which  there  should  be  a  good  table- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  cook  twenty  minutes  outside ;  drain  thoroughly, 
steaming  them  slightly  when  they  are  cooked.  Serve  on  toast,  with  a 
sa^ce  of  melted  butter.  Asparagus  boiled  plain  and  eaten  cold,  with  a 
plain  oil  and  vinegar  dressing,  is  excellent.  Or  cut  the  asparagus,  when 
boiled,  into  little  bits,  leaving  out  white  end ;  make  a  gravy  of  the  sec- 
ond water  the  asparagus  is  boiled  in — the  first  should  be  poured  off 
when  nearly  done  and  a  second  one  poured  on,  if  a  gravy  is  made — a 
lump  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  thickened  with  a  spoonful  of  flour, 
mixed  up  with  cold  water,  if  a  thick  gravy  is  Uked. 

FRIED  ASPARAGUS. 

Boil  the  asparagus  a  couple  of  minutes,  and  then  drain  it ;  dip  each 
piece  in  butter  and  fry  it  in  hot  fat.  When  done  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
serve  hot. 

ARTICHOKES. 

Strip  off  the  outer  leaves ;  cut  the  stalks  close  to  the  bottom,  wash 
well ;  lay  in  cold  water  for  two  hours ;  immerse  in  boiling  water,  the 
stalk  ends  uppermost,  with  an  inverted  plate  upon  them  to  keep  them 
down.  Boil  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  until  very  tender;  arrange  upon  a 
dish,  tops  up,  and  pour  drawn  butter  over  them. 

BOILED  DINNER. 

Put  meat  on,  after  washing  well,  in  enough  boiling  water  to  just  cover 
the  meat;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  set  kettle  on  the  stove  where  it  will  boil 
very  slowly  ;  boil  until  almost  tender  then  put  in  the  vegetables,  first 
skimming  the  meat  well.  Put  in  the  cabbage  first  cut  into  quarters, 
turnips  of  medium  size  cut  in  halves,  and  potatoes.  Parsnips  and  car- 
rots may  be  added,  or  rutabagas  in  place  of  the  turnips.  Boil  all 
together  until  thoroughly  done,  adding  a  little  salt  before  taking  from 
the  kettle,  in  which  there  should  be  only  just  enough  water  to  keep  the 
meat  from  burning  ;  take  up  vegetables  in  separate  dishes  and  lastly  the 
meat.  A  soup  plate  or  saucer  turned  upside  down,  is  useful  to  place 
in  bottom  of  kettle  to  keep  meat  from  burning. 


VEGETABLES.  629 

LIMA  BEANS. 

Shell,  lay  in  cold  water  fifteen  minutes,  and  cook  from  twenty-five  to 
thirty  minutes  in  boiling  salt  water;  drain  well,  season  with  pepper, 
salt  and  butter. 

STRING  BEANS. 

String,  cut  into  inch  pieces  and  throw  into  cold  water  for  half  an  hour. 
Cut  some  nice  slices  of  salt  pork,  half  lean,  and  thin,  and  put  on  to  boil 
with  the  beans.  Cook  until  the  beans  are  perfectly  tender.  Drain  very 
dry  and  add  butter  and  salt  if  necessary,  though  the  pork  usually  makes 
them  salt  enough,  and  pepper  to  your  taste.  To  those  who  are  not 
prejudiced  against  pork  this  will  be  found  a  delicious  way  to  cook 
beans,  and  they  are  much  better  than  when  cooked  without  it.  Green 
peas  are  also  nice  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

PORK  AND  BEANS. 

Soak  a  quart  of  beans  over  night  in  soft  water.  Change  this  for 
more  and  warmer  in  the  morning;  and  two  hours  later,  put  them  on 
to  boil  in  cold.  When  they  are  soft,  drain  well,  put  into  a  deep  dish 
and  sink  into  the  middle  a  |X)und  of  salt  pork,  leaving  only  the  top  of 
the  rind  visible ;  the  pork  should  have  been  previously  parboiled.  If 
you  want  to  bake  them,  take  them  out  of  the  kettle,  drain,  and  turn 
into  a  bake  dish.  They  do  not  want  to  be  cooked  more  than  soft  if 
they  are  to  be  baked.  Put  the  pork  deep  down  into  the  pans,  score 
the  slices  in  long  furrows,  add  enough  boiling  water  to  prevent  them 
from  scorching,  and  bake  covered,  until  they  smoke  and  bubble. 
Remove  the  cover  and  brown.  Serve  in  the  bake  dish.  Some  add  a 
little  molasses  when  ready  to  bake,  or  a  little  brown  sugar. 

BEETS. 

To  cook  them  so  that  none  of  their  color  shall  be  lost,  carefully  wash 
them  without  breaking  the  skin  or  cutting  off  the  roots  or  stalks,  and 
plunge  them  in  boiling  salted  water.  Try  them  with  a  fork  to  see  when 
tender ;  take  out ;  drop  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  slip  the  skin  off  with 
the  hands;  slice  those  needed  for  present  use,  place  in  a  dish,  add  salt, 
pepper  and  butter,  set  over  boiling  water  to  heat  thoroughly,  and  serve 
hot  with  or  without  vinegar;  put  those  which  remain  in  a  stone  jar, 
whole,  cover  with  vinegar,  keep  in  a  cool  place,  take  out  as  wanted,  slice 
and  serve.  A  few  pieces  of  horseradish  put  into  the  jar  will  prevent  a 
white  scum  on  the  vinegar. 

BEET  GREENS. 

Take  the  roots  and  leaves  of  the  beets  and  wash  them  carefully,  but 
do  not  separate  the  roots  from  the  leaves ;  fill  dinner  pot  half  full  of 


i330  VEGETABLES. 

salted  boiling  water,  add  beets  and  boil  from  half  to  three-quarters 
of  an  hour;  take  out  and  drain  in  colander,  pressing  down  with  a 
large  spoon  so  as  to  get  out  all  the  water.  Dish  and  slice  across  until 
fine,  and  dress  with  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  hot  with 
vinegar.  Some  like  to  eat  only  the  beet-root,  in  which  case  a  little  melted 
butter,  with  a  little  mustard  and  vinegar  added,  must  be  thrown  over 
the  hot  slices  of  the  root. 

CARROTS. 

Scrape  and  boil  whole  forty-five  minutes.  Drain  and  cut  into  round 
slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Mash  and  season  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt ;  or  slice  and  quickly  brown  in  butter ;  or  toss  for  five  minutes 
over  the  fire  with  chopped  onion,  parsley,  butter,  seasonings  and  suffi- 
cient gravy  to  moisten  them ;  or  boil,  quarter,  heat  with  cream,  season 
and,  at  the  moment  of  serving,  thicken  with  the  yolk  of  eggs. 

CABBAGE. 

Scald  five  minutes  in  fast  boiling  water,  chop  coarse,  sprinkle  with 
flour,  salt  and  pepper,  and  gently  stew  for  five  minutes  with  milk  or 
cream  enough  to  cover.  Or  take  red  cabbage,  slice,  throw  for  fifteen 
minutes  into  scalding  salted  water  and  vinegar,  then  drain  and  fry  five 
minutes  with  butter,  and  serve  with  a  little  hot  meat  gravy.  A  link 
between  cabbage  and  lettuce  are  Brussels  sprouts,  those  tender,  baby 
cabbages,  which,  stewed  in  cream,  or  quickly  fried  in  butter,  make  an 
excellent  dish. 

CAULIFLOWER  WITH  SAUCE. 

Boil  a  large  cauliflower — tied  in  netting — in  hot  salted  water,  from 
twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes;  drain;  serve  in  a  deep  dish  with  the 
flower  upwards  and  pour  over  it  a  cup  of  drawn  butter  in  which  has 
been  stirred  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  French  mus- 
tard, mixed  lip  well  with  the  sauce. 

CELERY. 

Celery  we  know  best  in  its  uncooked  state,  but  it  is  very  good  stewed 
in  any  brown  or  white  gravy  or  sauce,  or  rolled  in  fritter  batter  and 
fried  brown. 

FRIED  CELERY. 

Boil  some  thick  but  tender  stalks  of  celery  in  salted  water ;  when 
done  dry  them  on  a  cloth,  cut  them  in  equal  lengths  about  one  and  a 
half  inches ;  fry  them  in  batter  to  a  golden  color,  sprinkling  fine  salt 
well  over,  and  serve. 

CORN. 

If  corn  is  stripped  off  the  outer  husk,  then  the  inner  stripped  down 
and  left,  the  silks  all  pulled  off  and  the  husks  turned  back  on  the  cob 


VEGETABLES.  631 

and  boiled  with  it  on,  is  much  sweeter  than  if  the  husks  are  entirely- 
left  off. 

STEWED  CORN. 

Stew  one  quart  of  corn  in  its  own  liquor,  setting  the  vessel  containing- 
it  in  an  outer  one  of  hot  water.  Should  the  corn  be  very  dry,  add  a 
little  cold  water.  When  tender,  pour  in  enough  milk  to  cover  the  com, 
bring  to  a  boil,  and  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and 
salt  to  taste.  Stew  gently,  stirring  well,  three  or  four  minutes,  and  turn 
into  a  deep  dish.  Keep  the  vessel  containing  the  corn  closely  covered 
while  it  is  cooking.  The  steam  faciUtates  the  process  and  preserves  the 
color  of  the  com. 

CORN  OYSTERS. 

One  dozen  grated  corn  (sweet),  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  two  of 
flour,  one  of  butter,  one  ^g%  well  beaten ;  mix  and  bake  in  small  cakes 
on  a  griddle.     Spread  with  best  butter. 

DRIED  CORN. 

Wash  a  pint  of  com  through  one  water  and  put  to  soak  over  night  in 
clean  cold  water,  or  place  it  over  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  for  two  or  three 
hours ;  when  softened,  cook  five  to  ten  minutes  in  water  in  which  it 
was  soaked,  adding  as  soon  as  boiling,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one 
of  flour,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Or  take  the  yolk  of  one  &gg,  one 
tablespoonful  of  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  thicken  with  flour  quite  stiff  so  as  to 
take  out  with  a  teaspoon,  and  drop  in  little  dumplings  not  larger  than 
an  acorn ;  cover  tightly  and  cook  five  or  ten  minutes ;  have  enough 
water  on  the  corn  before  adding  the  dumplings,  as  cover  should  not  be 
removed  until  the  dumphngs  are  done. 

HULLED  CORN. 

Take  white  com  if  you  can  get  it ;  use  none  but  plump  corn ;  shell  and 
boil  it  in  weak  lye  until  the  hull  is  broken  ;  then  clean  off  the  lye,  fill  the 
kettle,  or  turn  the  corn  into  a  dish-pan ;  take  your  hands  and  rub  the 
corn  well ;  wash  in  several  waters  (the  old  way  is  nine  times),  but  six 
will  do  ;  then  clean  your  kettle  and  return  to  the  stove  ;  put  in  plenty  of 
water  and  boil  until  very  tender,  which  usually  takes  almost  the  entire 
day.  As  the  water  boils  away  add  more.  It  is  better  to  add  hot  water 
than  cold. 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS. 

Pare,  cut  into  lengthwise  slices  more  than  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
and  lay  for  half  an  hour  in  ice  water ;  wipe  each  piece  dry ;  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  dredge  with  flour;  fry  to  a  light  brown  in 
good  dripping  or  butter ;  drain  well  and  serve  hot 


632  VEGETABLES, 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS. 
Cut  the  cucumbers  fully  half  an  inch  thick  right  through  ;  put  theni 
in  a  sauce-pan,  just  covering  them  with  hot  water,  and  let  them  boil 
slowly  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  or  until  tender,  but  not  so  as  to  break 
them  ;  then  drain  them  ;  you  want  now  a  pint  of  good  cream,  and  put 
your  cream,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  when  it 
is  warm  throw  in  the  cucumbers ;  season  with  a  little  salt  and  white 
pepper,  cook  five  minutes,  shaking  the  sauce-pan  all  the  time  and  serve 
hot.     Cucumbers  cooked  in  this  way  make  a  nice  side  dish. 

A  FARMER'S  DISH. 

Peel  and  slice  thin  potatoes  and  onions  (five  potatoes  to  one  small 
onion)  ;  take  half  a  pound  of  sweet  salt  pork  (in  thin  slices)  to  a  pound 
of  beef,  mutton  or  veal ;  cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces ;  take  some  nice 
bread  dough  and  shorten  a  little;  line  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan  with 
slices  of  pork,  then  a  layer  of  meat,  potatoes  and  onions,  dust  over  a 
little  pepper  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  crust ;  repeat  this  until  the  stew- 
pot  is  full.  The  size  of  the  pot  will  depend  on  the  number  in  the  fam- 
ily. Pour  in  sufficient  water  to  cover,  and  finish  with  crust.  Let  it 
simmer  until  meat,  vegetables,  etc.,  are  done,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  hard^ 
Serve  hot. 

BAKED  EGG  PLANT. 

Cut  it  into  slices  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick  and  lay  in  salt  water 
for  an  hour  or  more.  Wipe  the  pieces  dry  and  dip  into  beaten  t.gg, 
then  into  bread  crumbs  or  cracker  dust ;  have  the  fat  hot  in  your  pan — 
just  enough  to  prevent  sticking — and  put  them  in  the  oven  until  done. 
This  will  be  found  a  better  way  than  frying,  and  they  are  very  light  and 
delicious.     Season  to  the  taste  before  cooking. 

STEWED  EGG  PLANT. 

Boil  the  plant  whole ;  when  tender  cut  it  into  half,  mash  the  inside 
fine  and  mix  with  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
Put  in  an  oven  and  bake. 

STUFFED  EGG  PLANTS. 

Halve  and  parboil.  When  soft  enough  for  a  fork  to  enter,  remove 
from  the  water  and  let  cool.  Then  cut  the  inside,  being  careful  not  to 
break  the  skin.  Next  take  bread  that  has  been  previously  soaked  in 
water,  squeeze  as  dry  as  possible  and  mix  with  the  pulp  of  the  veget- 
able. Add  to  that  a  good  sized  tomato,  the  juice  of  an  onion,  a  little 
parsley  and  two  or  three  eggs,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  the 
filling  is  ready  for  use.  Before  putting  into  the  stove  sprinkle  with 
toasted  bread  crumbs.     Another  and  quicker  way  to  make  the  stuffing- 


VEGETABLES.  633 

is  to  mix  the  pulp  with  the  juice  of  an  onion,  a  tomato  and  a  couple  of 
eggs.     Thicken  with  boiled  rice  and  season  to  taste. 

LETTUCE. 

Lettuce  is  excellent  stuffed ;  it  should  be  well  washed  in  salted  cold 
water,  the  roots  trimmed  off,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cooked  force-meat 
of  any  kind,  or  chopped  cold  meat  highly  seasoned,  inclosed  within  the 
leaves  and  bound  together  with  tape  or  strips  of  cloth ;  several  heads 
thus  prepared  are  placed  in  a  saucepan,  covered  with  broth  or  cold 
gravy  well  seasoned,  and  set  over  the  fire  to  simmer  about  five  minutes  ; 
the  tapes  are  then  removed  and  the  lettuce  heads  and  sauce  are  served 
hot. 

MACCARONI. 

Put  on  a  tin  saucepan  of  clear  water ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  put  in  a 
pinch  of'salt ;  take  a  soup  plate  full  of  maccaroni,  break  it  up  and  put  in 
the  boiling  water ;  when  soft  enough  for  a  fork  to  go  through,  it  is  done  ; 
put  in  a  colander  and  let  the  water  drain  off.  Have  the  cheese  grated 
— Holland  cheese  is  the  best,  though  any  hard  cheese  will  do — take 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  (good  butter) ;  take  a  large  flat 
dish,  put  in  some  butter  and  cheese,  then  maccaroni  and  so  on  till  all  is 
used  up. 

BAKED  MACCARONI. 

Break  half  a  pound  of  maccaroni  into  inch  pieces  and  put  into  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water  and  boil  twenty  minutes,  or  until  soft,  but  not 
broken  ;  add  a  little  salt  while  boiling ;  drain  and  put  into  a  well-buttered 
dish  a  layer  at  a  time,  with  plenty  of  grated  cheese  sprinkled  over  each 
layer,  with  pepper  to  your  taste  and  bits  of  butter.  When  the  dish  is 
full,  pour  over  half  a  cup  of  good  milk,  or,  better  still,  cream.  Bake 
half  an  hour  and  serve  in  the  dish  it  is  baked  in. 

ITALIAN  MACCARONL 

Take  one-fourth  pound  maccaroni,  boil  in  water  until  tender ;  thicken 
one-half  pint  milk  with  two  tablespoonfuls  flour ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
cream,  one-half  tablespoonful  mustard,  a  little  white  pepper  and  salt ; 
stir  in  this  one-half  pound  grated  cheese ;  boil  all  together  a  few  min- 
utes ;  add  the  maccaroni ;  boil  ten  minutes.  This  is  the  mode  adopted 
at  the  best  tables  in  Florence. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS. 

Slice  the  mushrooms  into  halves.  Stew  ten  minutes  in  a  little  butter 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  very  little  water.  Drain ;  put  the 
mushrooms  into  a  pie  dish ;  break  enough  eggs  to  cover  them  over  the 
top  ;  pepper,  salt  and  scatter  bits  of  butter  over  them  ;  stew  with  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  until  the  eggs  are  set.     Serve  in  the  dish. 


634:  VEGETABLES, 

ONIONS. 

Onions  are  best  when  sliced  and  quickly  fried  in  plenty  of  smoking 
hot  fat,  or  roasted  whole  until  tender,  and  served  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt ;  or  chosen  while  still  small,  carefully  peeled  without  breaking, 
browned  in  butter,  and  then  simm.ered  tender  with  just  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover  them ;  or  boiled  tender  in  broth  and  then  heated  fi\  e 
minutes  in  nicely  seasoned  cream. 

CREAM   ONIONS. 

Boil  in  two  waters,  drain,  and  if  they  are  large,  cut  into  quarters  and 
pour  over  them  a  cup  of  scalding  milk  in  which  a  pinch  of  soda  has 
been  stirred ;  set  over  the  fire,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  tea- 
spoonful  corn  starch  wet  with  milk,  a  little  minced  parsley,  with  pepper 
and  salt.     Simmer  and  pour  out. 

OYSTER  PLANT  OR  SALISFY. 

Oyster  plant,  scraped  in  cold  water,  boiled  tender  in  salted  water  con- 
taining a  trace  of  vinegar,  and  then  heated  with  a  little  highly  seasoned 
melted  butter,  is  excellent ;  the  tender  leaves  which  it  often  bears  make 
a  nice  salad.  Somewhat  like  oyster  plant  are  Jerusalem  artichokes. 
Like  oyster  plant,  they  must  be  peeled  under  water,  boiled  tender,  and 
then  served  with  melted  butter,  or  quickly  browned  in  butter,  either 
plain  or  with  chopped  herbs,  or  served  with  an  acid  sauce  of  any  kind. 

FRIED  OYSTER  PLANT. 

Scrape  the  roots  as  above  ;  boil  whole  until  tender ;  drain,  and  when 
cold  mash  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  a  smooth  paste,  taking  out  all  fibres; 
moisten  with  milk ;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  one  and  a  half 
eggs  for  every  cup  of  salsify ;  beat  the  eggs  light ;  make  in  round  cakes ; 
dredge  with  flour  and  fry  brown. 

PARSNIPS. 

Parsnips  are  not  sufficiently  appreciated,  perhaps  because  of  their  too 
sweet  taste;  but  this  can  be  overcome  to  a  palatable  extent  by  judicious 
cookery ;  they  are  excellent  when  sliced,  after  boiling  and  warming  in  a 
sauce  made  by  mixing  flour,  butter  and  milk  over  the  fire  and  season- 
ing it  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  as  soon  as  warm  they  are  served  with  a 
little  chopped  parsley  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon  juice.  For  parsnips  fried 
brown  in  an  old-fashioned  iron  pot  with  slices  of  salt  pork  and  a  sea- 
soning of  salt  and  pepper,  many  good  words  might  be  said. 

FRIED  PARSNIPS. 

Boil  until  tender  in  hot  water  slightly  salted  ;  let  them  get  almost 
cold,  scrape  off  the  skin,  and  cut  in  thick,  long  slices  ;  dredge  with  flour 


VEGETABLES.  635 

and  fry  in  hot  dripping,  turning  as  they  brown  ;  drain  very  dry  in  a  hot 
colander ;  pepper  and  salt  to  serve. 

GREEN  PEAS. 
Hull  and  put  into  salted  boiling  water  with  a  small  lump  of  white 
sugar  ;  cook  from  thirty  to  thirty-five  minutes ;  drain  and  season  with 
milk  or  cream,  butter,  pepper  and  salt.      Be  sure  the  peas  are  young  ; 
old  peas  are  fit  for  nothing  but  soup. 

CANNED  PEAS. 

Open  a  can  of  peas  an  hour  before  cooking  them,  that  there  may  be 
no  musty,  airless  taste  about  them,  and  turn  into  a  bowl.  When  ready 
for  them  put  on  a  farina  kettle — or  one  saucepan  within  another — of  hot 
water.  If  dry,  add  cold  water  to  cover  them,  and  stew  about  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Drain,  stir  in  a  generous  lump  of  butter ;  pepper  and 
salt. 

GREEN  PEAS  AND  NEW  POTATOES. 

Cook  them  separate  ;  let  the  water  boil  all  off  the  peas  ;  add  a  pint  of 
milk,  half  cup  butter,  teaspoonful  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  put  in  the  pota- 
toes and  boil  five  minutes. 

FRENCH  WAY  OF  COOKING  PEAS. 

Put  your  peas  in  a  nice  dish,  where  they  will  not  turn  black  in  cook- 
ing. Cut  up  fine  one  small  head  of  lettuce  ;  put  in  a  few  sprigs  of 
parsley,  tied  up  ;  salt  and  pepper  ;  enough  of  water  to  cover  the  peas. 
Cook  gently  until  tender,  one  and  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then  drain 
off  most  of  the  water;  dissolve  one  teaspoonful  of  flour  in  water 
and  stir  in  ;  add  one-half  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet 
milk  and  one  lump  of  sugar  ;  cook  about  ten  minutes ;  just  before  serv- 
ing stir  in  yolk  of  one  t^^,  previously  beaten  with  a  little  water. 

POTATOES. 

If  cold  ones  are  left  they  can  rehabilitate  themselves  in  favor  by 
appearing  chopped,  moistened  with  white  sauce  or  cream,  and  either 
fried  in  butter  or  baked  quickly,  with  a  covering  of  bread  crumbs.  Or 
steam-fried,  that  is  sliced  raw,  put  into  a  covered  pan  over  the  fire,  with 
butter  and  seasoning,  and  kept  covered  until  tender,  with  only  enough 
stirring  to  prevent  burning,  they  are  capital.  Larded,  they  have  bits 
of  fat  ham  or  bacon  inserted  in  them,  and  are  baked  tender.  Note 
well  that  the  more  expeditiously  a  baked  potato  is  cooked  and  eaten 
the  better  it  will  be. 

POTATO  BALLS. 

Bake  the  potatoes,  mash  them  very  nicely,  make  them  into  balls,  rub 
them  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  ^^^,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  or  before 


G36  VEGETABLES. 

the  fire  to  brown.     These  balls  may  be  varied  by  the  introduction  of  a 
portion  of  grated  ham  or  tongue. 

BROWNED  POTATOES. 

While  the  meat  is  roasting,  and  an  hour  before  it  is  served,  boil  the 
potatoes  and  take  off  their  jackets  ;  flour  them  well,  and  put  them  under 
the  meat,  taking  care  to  dry  them  from  the  drippings  before  they  are 
sent  to  the  table.  Kidney  potatoes  are  best  dressed  in  this  way.  The 
flouring  is  very  essential. 

CREAM  POTATOES. 

Heat  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  teaspoonful 
of  flour,  cook  until  smooth,  but  not  brown,  then  add  gradually  one  large 
cup  of  cold  milk,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it  boils  up  ;  put  in  the  pota- 
toes, which  should  be  cut  up  fine  arid  salted  and  peppered  ;  let  them 
cook  about  three  minutes  in  the  sauce,  just  enough  to  heat  them. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

Take  six  boiled  potatoes,  pass  them  through  a  sieve ;  add  to  them 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  ham  grated  or  minced  finely,  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg, pepper  and  sauce  to  taste,  and  some  chopped  parsley ;  work  into 
this  mixture  the  yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs,  then  fashion  it  into  the 
shape  of  balls,  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard,  and  serve 
with  fried  parsley. 

FRIED  POTATOES. 

Take  raw  potatoes,  peel,  cut  in  rings  the  thickness  of  a  shilling,  or  cut 
in  one  continuous  shaving  ;  throw  them  into  cold  water  until  you  have 
sufficient ;  drain  on  a  cloth ;  fry  quickly  in  plenty  of  hot  fat,  and  with 
as  little  color  as  possible ;  dry  them  well  from  the  grease,  and  sprinkle 
them  with  salt.  When  nicely  done,  and  piled  up  properly,  they  make  a 
fine  side  dish,  which  is  always  eaten  with  great  relish. 

Or  cut  a  potato  lengthwise  the  size  and  shape  of  the  divisions  of  an 
orange,  trim  them  neatly  and  fry  them ;  they  are  an  excellent  garnish 
for  meat.  Cold  potatoes  may  be  cut  in  slices  somewhat  less  than  an 
inch  thick,  and  fried  in  like  manner.  They  can  also  be  fried  in  onions, 
as  an  accompaniment  to  pork  chops,  sliced  cod,  red  herring,  or  with  a 
rasher  of  bacon. 

POTATOES  A  LA  DUCHESSE. 

Take  eight  large  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  fine,  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs,  a  little  salt ;  stir  all  together  over 
the  fire,  then  set  it  away  to  cool.  When  quite  cold  roll  it  on  a  board, 
with  flour  to  keep  from  sticking.     Make  it   in  cake  or  any  form  you 


VEGETABLES.  637 

wish.  Take  the  white  of  the  ^g%,  beat  with  a  little  water,  dip  in  the 
potato  and  roll  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs.     Fry  in  hot  lard. 

LONG  BRANCH  MILK  POTATOES. 

Take  good,  sound  potatoes,  cut  them  in  slices  (raw),  and  put  the 
milk,  according  to  the  quantity  you  wish  to  make,  in  a  pudding  dish ; 
then,  after  you  have  put  the  potatoes  in  the  milk,  put  it  in  the  oven  for 
about  twenty  minutes ;  then  take  out  and  put  potatoes,  with  the  same 
milk,  into  a  saucepan  to  boil  until  done.  Season  before  putting  them 
to  boil. 

POTATO  LOAVES. 

^  These  are  very  nice  when  eaten  with  roast  beef,  and  are  made  of 
mashed  potatoes  prepared  without  milk,  by  mixing  them  with  a  quan- 
tity of  very  finely  minced  raw  onions,  powdered  with  pepper  and  salt ; 
then  beating  up  the  whole  with  a  little  butter  to  bind  it,  and  dividing  it 
into  small  loaves  of  a  conical  form,  and  placing  them  under  the  meat 
to  brown ;  that  is,  when  it  is  so  nearly  done  as  to  impart  some  of  the 
gravy  along  with  the  fat. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES. 

Boil  the  potatoes  with  their  jackets  on  and  allow  them  to  cool  in 
order  to  have  them  solid.  Peel  and  cut  into  slices  about  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick ;  slice  an  ordinary  sized  onion  for  half  a  dozen  potatoes. 
As  soon  as  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  has  melted  in  the  pan,  and  the 
onion  begun  to  color,  put  in  the  shces  of  potatoes.  Stir  them  a  little. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fry  the  potatoes  until  they  are  a  golden 
brown,  and  then  chop  up  a  tablespoonful  of  parsley  and  sprinkle  it  over 
them  just  before  taking  them  out. 

POTATO  PUFF. 

To  each  two  cups  of  mashed  potatoes  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter  and  beat  to  a  cream ;  put  with  this  two  eggs  whipped 
light,  and  a  cup  of  milk,  salting  to  taste.  Beat  all  well ;  pour  into  a 
greased  baking-dish  and  bake  quickly  to  a  light  brown.  Serve  in  the 
dish  in  which  it  was  cooked. 

SARATOGA  POTATOES. 

Take  eight  large  potatoes,  pare  and  slice  them  very  thin  with  a  cab- 
bage-cutter ;  stir  into  them  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  pota- 
toes, and  let  them  remain  an  hour ;  pour  them  into  a  sieve  to  drain,  and 
when  well  drained,  wipe  the  slices  dry  ;  put  a  pound  of  lard  into  the 
kettle,  and  when  it  becomes  smoking  hot  put  in  the  potatoes  ;  they 
must  be  constantly  stirred  to  prevent  the  pieces  from  adhering  to  one 


63S  VEGETABLES. 

another,   and  until   they   are  sufficiently  browned.      They   should   be 
served  while  hot. 

POTATO  RISSOLES. 

Take  potatoes  and  mash  them  fine ;  mix  with  them  butter,  salt,  pep- 
per and  a  raw  ^g% ;  pour  the  potatoes  on  a  plate  and  form  them  with  a 
knife  into  small  cakes ;  lay  them  on  a  buttered  tin  ;  brush  them  over  the 
top  wiih  an  t.^g,  beaten  up  with  a  teaspoonful  of  cold  water,  and  color 
golden  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 

POTATO  ROSES. 

Pare  carefully  with  a  thin  penknife  some  peeled  potatoes  round  and 
round  until  all  of  each  potato  is  pared  to  the  center.  Do  not  try  to  cut 
the  slices  too  thin  or  they  will  break.  Place  in  a  wire  basket  and  dip  in 
boiling  lard.     They  are  a  handsome  garnish. 

SWEET  POTATOES. 

Select  those  of  uniform  size  ;  parboil  them  with  the  skins  on ;  peel 
and  lay  in  baking-pan.  Bake  until  soft  to  the  grasp,  glazing  with  but- 
ter just  before  you  take  them  up. 

BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Take  medium-sized,  perfect  potatoes  and  boil  them  unfil  nearly  done ; 
take  them  from  the  water,  peel  them  smoothly  and  carefully  and  slice 
them  lengthwise  into  a  queensware  pudding  dish  ;  add  a  reasonable 
portion  of  good  butter  ;  sprinkle  over  them  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  granulated  sugar  and  finish  cooking  them  in  the  oven.     Serve  hot. 

TOSSED  POTATOES. 

Boil  some  potatoes  in  their  jackets ;  peel  them  and  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Toss  them  over  the  fire  in  a  mixture  of  cream  and  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  pepper  and  salt,  till  they  are  hot  and  well  covered  with 
the  sauce. 

SPINACH. 

This  requires  great  care  in  washing  and  picking.  When  it  is  done 
throw  into  a  saucepan  that  will  just  hold  it,  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt 
and  cover  close.  The  pan  must  be  set  on  the  fire  and  well  shaken. 
When  done  add  to  the  spinach  a  bit  of  butter ;  it  must  come  to  the 
table  pretty  dry.  Boil  an  ^g%  hard,  cut  in  slices  and  lay  on  the  top 
If  one  ^%%  is  not  sufficient,  use  two.  Or,  chop  very  fine  and  return  to 
the  fire,  with  a  good  lump  of  butter,  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  a  few  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  beat  to  a  smooth  mixture  like  custard  ;  pour  into  a 
deep  dish  and  serve. 


VEGETABLES.  639 


SPINACH  GREENS. 

When  cooking  spinach  substitute  a  little  piece  of  bacon  for  the  salt 
pork  usually  cooked  with  it  to  season  it.  The  nicest  way  to  serve  it  is 
to  put  a  bit  of  the  bacon  in  each  dish.  Hard  boiled  eggs,  sliced  when 
cold,  are  also  liked  with  the  greens. 

SPINACH  A  LA  FRANCAISE. 

Two  pailfuls  of  spinach,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  two  ounces  of 
butter,  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  pow- 
dered sugar  and  a  very  little  nutmeg.  Boil  and  drain  the  spinach,  chop 
it  fine  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan,  with  the  butter ;  stir  it  over  a  gentle 
fire,  and  when  the  butter  has  dried  away  add  the  remaining  ingredients 
and  simmer  about  five  minutes  previously  to  pouring  in  the  cream 
for  fear  it  may  curdle.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  and  garnish  either  with 
pieces  of  toasted  bread  or  leaves  of  puff  paste. 

SQUASH. 

Pare,  seed  and  quarter ;  cook  in  salted  boiling  water,  until  soft ; 
mash  in  a  colander  ;  rub  through  it  and  put  back  into  a  saucepan,  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  milk ; 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  stir  until  it  begins  to  bubble ;  then  pour  into 
a  deep  dish.  Squash  and  pumpkin  are  very  good  either  boiled,  sliced, 
broiled  or  fried,  or  made  into  fritters  like  oyster  plant. 

BAKED  SQUASH. 

Boil,  drain  and  mash  in  a  hot  colander.  Season  with  pepper,  salt 
and  butter ;  add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  milk  and  two  beaten  eggs.  Pour 
into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  to  a  light  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

SCALLOPED  SQUASH. 

Boil  and  mash  the  squash  in  the  customary  way  and  let  it  cool ;  beat 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  when  the  squash  is  nearly  cold  whip  these 
into  it,  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  one  of  butter  rolled  in  flour 
and  melted  into  the  milk ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  pour  into  a  but- 
tered bake-dish,  cover  with  fine  crumbs,  and  bake  to  a  light  brown  in  a 
quick  oven.     To  be  eaten  hot. 

STUFFED  SQUASH. 

Pare  a  small  squash  and  cut  off  a  slice  from  the  top ;  extract  the 
seeds  and  lay  one  hour  in  salt  water ;  then  fill  with  a  good  stuffing  of 
crumbs,  chopped  salt  pork,  parsley,  etc.,  wet  with  gravy ;  put  on  the 


640  VEGETABLES, 

top  slice  ;  set  the  squash  in  a  pudding  dish ;  put  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
melted  butter  and  twice  as  much  hot  water  in  the  bottom  ;  cover  the 
dish  very  closely  and  set  in  the  oven  two  hours,  or  until  tender ;  lay 
within  a  deep  dish  and  pour  the  gravy  over  it. 

WINTER  SQUASH. 

Pare,  cut  up  and  cook  soft  in  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt.  Drain, 
mash  smooth,  pressing  out  all  the  water ;  work  in  butter,  pepper  and 
salt,  and  mound  in  a  deep  dish. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Cut  the  com  from  eight  or  ten  cobs  ;  mix  this  with  one-third  the 
quantity  of  Lima  beans,  and  cook  one  hour  in  just  enough  water  to 
cover  them.  Drain  off  -most  of  the  water ;  add  a  cup  of  milk  with  a 
pinch  of  soda  stirred  in.  When  this  boils,  stir  in  a  great  spoonful  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  simmer  ten  min- 
utes longer. 

DRIED  CORN  SUCCOTASH. 

Take  one  teacup  dried  green  corn ;  put  in  a  tin  dish ;  simmer.in  water 
until  tender  (say  an  hour)  ;  then  add  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  half  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  a  little  milk  or  cream,  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Beans  scalded  and  dried  while  green  make  quite  an  addi- 
tion. 

STRING  BEAN  SUCCOTASH. 

Take  two  quarts  of  beans  ;  string ;  cut  fine ;  boil  two  hours  with 
water  enough  to  cover  without  boiling  dry ;  cut  the  corn  from  six  ears 
and  boil  with  beans  [twenty  minutes ;  season  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt ;  just  before  dishing  up  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  moistened, 
also  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  let  it  boil  ten  minutes.  Those  who 
have  cream  can  use  it  instead  of  milk. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES. 

Select  nice  sound  tomatoes,  slice  off  the  top  of  each  and  remove  all 
the  centers ;  then  make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  minced  beef, 
onions,  parsley,  celery  seed,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt ; 
stuff  each  tomato  with  this  and  replace  the  tops ;  set  them  carefully  in 
a  pan  with  a  little  water  and  one  teaspoonful  of  butter;  bake  until 
done. 

RAW   TOMATOES. 

Pare  and  slice  with  a  sharp  knife,  lay  in  a  glass  dish  and  pour  over 
them  a  dressing  made  thus  :  Rub  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  half  as  much 
each  of  salt,  pepper  and  made  mustard  ;  beat  into  this  the  yolk  of  a  raw 
^gg,  and  then,  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar. 


VEGETABLES.  641 


BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Peel  them  and  put  into  a  baking  dish  with  bread  crumbs,  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  one  onion,  if  you  like  it ;  sift  corn  meal  over  the  top 
of  them  and  bake  slowly ;  they  will  take  between  two  and  three  hours 
to  bake  ;  if  they  are  acid,  use  sugar  instead  of  salt. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

Pare  and  slice  ;  scatter  fine  crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  bake-dish  ; 
cover  with  slices  of  tomatoes,  seasoned  with  sugar,  pepper,  salt  and  but- 
ter ;  cover  with  crumbs  and  then  with  tomatoes  ;  fill  the  dish  in  this 
order,  covering  all  with  crumbs,  with  bits  of  butter  sprinkled  upon  them. 
Bake,  covered,  half  an  hour,  and  brown. 

STEWED  TOMATOES. 

Scald  by  pouring  water  over  them,  peel,  slice  and  cut  out  all  defective 
parts  ;  place  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  hot  skillet,  put  in  tomatoes,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  keep  up  a  brisk  fire,  and  cook  as  rapidly  as  pos- 
sible, stirring  with  a  spoon.  Cook  half  an  hour.  Serve  at  once  in  a 
deep  dish  lined  with  toast.  Prepare  tomatoes  either  in  tin  or  porce- 
lain. 

TOMATOES  AND  CORN. 

Peel  and  cut  into  slices  four  large  tomatoes ;  cut  and  scrape  the  corn 
from  six  ears  (sweet  corn)  ;  mix  together  and  stew  half  an  hour  ;  sea- 
son with  butter,  pepper  and  salt ;  serve  hot.  One  large  finely  chopped 
onion  can  be  added  if  liked. 

TURNIPS. 

These,  either  white  or  yellow,  stewed  in  gravy,  are  excellent.  Choose 
a  quart  of  a  small,  even  size,  peel  them,  boil  fifteen  minutes  in  well 
salted  boiling  water,  drain,  put  into  a  frying-pan  with  sufficient  butter 
to  prevent  burning,  brown  and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  cover 
them  with  hot  water,  add  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper  and 
stew  gently  until  tender;  or  peel  and  cut  them  in  small  regular  pieces, 
brown  them  over  the  fire  with  a  little  butter  and  a  slight  sprinkling  of 
sugar,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  boiling  water  enough  to  cover,  and 
gently  stew  them  until  tender ;  serve  hot. 

MASHED  TURNIPS. 

Pare,  quarter  and  cook  them  tenderly  in  boiling  water,  with  a  little 

salt.    Mash  and  press  in  a  heated  colander  ;  work  in  butter,  pepper  and 

salt ;  heap  smoothly  in  a  deep  dish  and  put  pepper  on  top. 
41 


64:2 


COOKS'  TIME-TABLE. 

COOKS'  TIME-TABLE. 


Mode  of 
Preparation. 


Time  of 
Cooking. 


Asparagus 

Beans  (pod) 

Beans  with  green  com 

Beef 

Beefsteak , . . 

Beefsteak 

Beef,  salted 

Bass,  fresh 

Beets,  young 

Beets,  old 

Bread,  corn 

Bread,  wheat 

Cabbage 

Cauliflower 

Cake,  sponge 

Carrot,  orange 

Chicken 

Codfish,  dry  and  whole 

Custard  (one  quart) 

Duck,  tame 

Duck,  wild 

Dumpling,  apple 

Eggs,  hard 

Eggs,  soft 

Eggs 

Fowls,  domestic,  roasted  or  . . , 

Goose,  wild 

Lamb 

Meat  and  vegetables 

Mutton 

Mutton 

Onions 

Oysters 

Parsnips 

Pork 

Pork 

Pork 

Potatoes 

Potatoes 

Po  atoes 

Rice 

Salmon,  fresh 

Sausage 

Sausage 

Soup,  vegetable 

Soup,  chicken 

Soup,  oyster  or  mutton 

Spinach 

Tapioca 

Tomatoes 

Tomatoes 

Trout,  salmon,  fresh,  boiled  or 

Turkey,  boiled  or 

Turnips 

Veal 

Venison  steak 


Boiled... 

Boiled... 

Boiled... 

Roasted  . 

Broiled.. 

Fried .... 

Boiled... 

Broiled . . 

Boiled... 

Boiled . . . 

Baked... 

Baked . . . 

Boiled . .  . 

Boiled . . . 

Baked... 

Boiled... 

Fricasseed 

Boiled... 

Baked... 

Roasted  . 

Roasted  . 

Boiled... 

Boiled... 

Boiled... 

Fried 

Boiled... 
Roasted  . 
Boiled... 
Hashed.. 

Roast 

Broiled .  . 
Boiled . . . 
Stewed... 
Boiled... 

Roast 

Boiled... 
Broiled.. 
Boiled... 
Baked... 
Roasted  . 
Boiled... 
Boiled... 

Fried 

Broiled.. 
Boiled... 
Boiled . . . 
Boiled... 
Boiled... 
Boiled . . . 

Fresh 

Canned. . 
Fried .... 
Roasted  . 
Boiled... 
Broiled.. 
Broiled.. 


H.  M. 
15  to  30 

1  00 
45 
25 
15 
15 
35 
20 

2  00 
4  30 

45 

I  00 

I  00 

I — 2  00 

45 

I  00 

I  00 

15 

30 

I  30 

I  00 

I  00 

10 

3 

5 

I  00 

20 

20 

30 
25 

2G 

I 2   00 

5 

I    00 

30 

25 

20 

30 

45 

45 

20 

8 

25 
20 

1  00 

2  CXD 

3  30 

I — 2  CO 

I    30 

1   00 

30 

30 

20 

45 
20 
20 


*  Minutes  to  the  pound.  t  Mutton  soup. 

The  time  given  is  the  general  average  ;  the  time  will  vary  slightly  with  the  quality  of  the 
article. 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES.  643 

TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASUEES. 

I  quart  sifted  flour  (well  heaped)  weighs  I  lb. 

3  coffee-cups  sifted  flour  (level)  weigh  i  lb. 

4  teacups  sifted  flour  (level)  weigh  i  lb. 
I  quart  unsifted  flour  weighs  i  lb.  i  oz. 

I  quart  sifted  Indian  meal  weighs  i  lb.  4  oz. 

1  pint  soft  butter  (well  packed)  weighs  i  lb. 

2  teacups  soft  butter  (well  packed)  weigh  i  lb. 

1  Yi  pints  powdered  sugar  weigh  i  lb. 

2  coffee-cups  powdered  sugar  (level)  weigh  i  lb. 
2%  teacups  powdered  sugar  (level)  weigh  i  lb. 

1  pint  granulated  sugar  (heaped)  weighs  14  oz. 
lYz  coffee-cups  granulated  sugar  (level)  weigh  i  lb. 

2  teacups  granulated  sugar  (level)  weigh  one  pound. 

1  pint  coffee  "A"  sugar  (level)  weighs  12  oz. 

\)i  coffee-cups  coffee  "A"  sugar  (level)  weigh  i  lb. 

2  teacups  coffee  "  A  "  sugar  (well  heaped)  weigh  i  lb. 
I  pint  best  brown  sugar  weighs  13  oz. 

\)i  coffee-cups  best  brown  sugar  (level)  weigh  i  lb. 
2yi  teacups  best  brown  sugar  (level)  weigh  i  lb. 
7.%  coffee-cups  Indian  meal  (level)  equal  i  qt. 
y/z  teacups  Indian  meal  (level)  equal  i  qt. 

1  tablespoonful  (well  heaped)  granulated  "  coffee  A  "  or  best  brown 
sugar,  I  oz. 

2  tablespoonfuls  (well  rounded)  of  powdered  sugar  or  flour  weigh  I  oz. 

1  tablespoonful  (well  rounded)  of  soft  butter  weighs  i  oz. 
Soft  butter  size  of  an  ^^g  weighs  2  oz. 

7  tablespoonfuls  granulated  sugar  (heaping)  equal  i  teacup. 
5  tablespoonfuls  sifted  flour  or  meal  (heaping)  equal  i  teacup. 
4  tablespoonfuls  soft  butter  (well  heaped)  equal  i  teacup. 

3  tablespoonfuls  sweet  chocolate  grated  weigh  one  oz. 

2  teaspoonfuls  (heaping)  of  flour,  sugar  or  meal,  equal  I  heaping 

tablespoonful. 

LIQUIDS. 

I  pint  contains  16  fluid  ounces  (4  gills). 
I  ounce  contains  8  fluid  drachms  {%  giU)- 
I  tablespoonful  contains  about  Yz  fluid  ounce. 
I  teaspoonful  contains  about  i  fluid  drachm. 

4  teaspoonfuls  equal  i  tablespoonful  or  Y2  fluid  ounce. 
16  tablespoonfuls  equal  ^  pmt. 

I  wineglass  (common  size)  equals  4  tablespoonfuls  or  2  fluid  oz, 

I  teacup  equals  8  fluid  oz.  or  2  gills. 

4  teacups  er'ual  i  qt. 

A  common-sized  tumbler  holds  about  ^  pint. 


644  UTENSILS. 

UTENSILS 

NECESSARY  IN  THE  KITCHEN  OF  A  SMALL  FAMILY. 


WOODEN  WARE. 

Kitchen  Table  ;  Wash  Bench  ;  Wash  Tubs  (two  sizes)  ;  Wash  Board  ; 
Skirt  Board ;  Bosom  Board  ;  Bread  Board  ;  Towel  Roll ;  Potato 
Masher;  Wooden  Spoons;  Clothes  Stick;  Flour  Barrel  Cover;  Flour 
Sieve;  Chopping  Bowl ;  Soap  Bowl ;  Pails;  Lemon  Squeezer ;  Clothes 
Wringer ;  Clothes  Bars  ;  Clothes  Pins ;  Clothes  Baskets ;  Mop ;  Wood 
Boxes. 

TIN  WARE. 

Boiler  for  Clothes ;  Bread  Pan  ;  two  Dish  Pans  ;  Preserving  Pan ;  four 
Milk  Pans ;  two  Quart  Basins  ;  two  Pint  Basins  ;  two  quart  covered  Tin 
Pails;  one  four-quart  covered  Tin  Pail;  Sauce  Pans  with  covers,  two 
sizes;  two  Tin  Cups,  with  handles;  four  Jelly  Molds  (half-pint);  two 
Pint  Molds  for  rice,  blanc  mange,  etc.  ;  one  Skimmer  ;  two  Dippers, 
different  sizes;  two  Funnels  (one  for  jug  and  one  for  cruets)  ;  one  quart 
measure,  also,  pint,  half-pint  and  gill  measures  (they  should  be  broad 
and  low  as  they  are  more  easily  kept  clean) ;  two  Scoops  ;  Bread  Pan  ; 
tvv^o  round  Jelly  Cake  Pans,  and  two  long  Pie  Pans  ;  Coffee  Pot ;  Tea 
Steeper;  Colander;  Steamer;  Horseradish  Grater;  Nutmeg  Grater; 
small  Salt  Sieve;  Hair  Sieve  for  straining  ieily;  Dover's  Egg  Beater; 
Cake  Turner;  Cake  Cutter;  Apple  Corer;  Potato  Cutter;  one  dozen 
Muffin  Rings;  Soap  Shaker;  Ice  Filter;  Flour  Dredge;  Tea  Canister; 
Coffee  Canister ;  Cake,  Bread,  Cracker,  and  Cheese  Boxes  ;  Crumb 
Tray ;  Dust  Pan. 

IRON  WARE. 

Range  ;  Pot  with  steamer  to  fit ;  Soup  Kettle ;  Preserving  Kettle 
(porcelain)  ;  Tea  Kettle  ;  large  and  small  Frying  Pans  ;  Dripping  Pans  ; 
Gem  Pans;  Iron  Spoons  of  different  sizes;  Gridiron;  Griddle;  Waffle 
Iron;  Toasting  Rack;  Meat  Fork;  Jagging  Iron;  Can  Opener;  Coffee 
Mill;  Flat  Irons;  Hammer;  Tack  Hammer;  Screw  Driver;  Ice  Pick. 

STONE  WARE. 

Crocks  of  various  sizes ;  Bowls  holding  six  quarts,  four  quarts,  two 
quarts,  and  pint  bowls ;  six  Earthen  Baking  Dishes,  different  sizes. 

BRUSHES. 

Table  Brush  ;  Two  Dust  Brushes  ;  two  Scrub  Brushes ;  one  Black- 
ing Brush  for  stove ;  Shoe  Brush  ;  Hearth  Brush  ;  Brooms. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  013  514  834  9 


