Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  Hbrary  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/| 


The  Arthur  and  Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER  LIBRARY 

on  the  History  of  Women 

in  America 


Gift  of 
Mrs.  Jefferson  Patterson 


'I 


I 


I' 
l< 


i 


Putnam's  HomemaKer  Series 

By  Oiive  Green 


L  What  to  Have  for  Breakfast 

n.  Everyday  Luncheons 

m.  One  Thousand  Simple  Soups 

IV.  How  to  Cook  SheU^Fish 

V.  How  to  Cook  Fish 

VZ  How  to  Cook  Meat  and  Poultry 

ML  How  to  Cook  Vegetables 

To  be  hOowed  hr 

VZK  One  Thousand  Salads 

LfC  Everyday  Desserts 

X  Everyday  Dinners 


G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons 

New  Yotk  London 


HOW  TO 
COOK  VEGETABLES 


OLIVE  GREEN 


G.  P.    PUTNAM'S  SONS 

NEW  YORK  &  LONDON 

Sbe  Knlcftettioctiec  Ptcm 

1909 


r 


\^ 


COPYKIGHT,  X909 
BY 

G.  P.  PUTNAM'S  SONS 


Vbe  Itnfckerbocker  l>re»0>  llew  Vofi 


tcr  prcM,  'new 

1^\'   6  3  15 


CONTENTS 


PLEASING  TABLES  AND  VEGETABLES,  . 

FIFTT-ONB  SAUCES  FOR  VEGETABLES, 

FORTY-TWO  WAYS  TO  COOK  ARTICHOKES, 

FORTY-FIVE  WAYS  TO  COOK  ASPARAGUS, 

NINETY-FIVE  WAYS  TO  COOK  BEANS,    . 

TWENTY  WAYS  TO  COOK  BEETS,    . 

BIGHT  WAYS  TO  COOK  BRUSSELS  SPROUTS, 

ONE  HUNDRED  AND  FIVE  WAYS  TO  COOK  CAB 
BAGE,  •  •  •  • 

FIFTY-SIX  WAYS  TO  COOK  CARROTS, 

FORTY-NINE  WAYS  TO  COOK  CAULIFLOWER, 

THIRTY-TWO  WAYS  TO  COOK  CELERY, 

NINETEEN  WAYS  TO  COOK  CHESTNUTS, 

BIGHTY-SEVEN  WAYS  TO  COOK  CORN,  . 

•  •  • 

111 


PAGB 

I 


i8 

31 
45 
73 
79 

82 
118 

151 
161 

167 


Contents 


PAGB 
FIFTY-FOUR  WAYS  TO  COOK  CUCUMBERS,       .       Zpa 

FORTY-SEVEN  WAYS  TO  COOK  EGGPLANT,  .       ftZO 

FIFTEEN  WAYS  TO  COOK  HOMINY,           .  •       ^3  7 

EIGHTEEN  WAYS  TO  COOK  LENTILS,      .  .933 

EIGHTY  WAYS  TO  COOK  MACARONI,        .  .338 

NINETY-FIVE  WAYS  TO  COOK  MUSHROOMS,  .       363 

NINETEEN  WAYS  TO  COOK  NOODLES,     .  .393 

TWENTY  WAYS  TO  COOK  OKRA,      .             .  .       398 

SIXTY-THREE  WAYS  TO  COOK  ONIONS, .  .       304 

TWENTY-FIVE  WAYS  TO  COOK  PARSNIPS,  .       334 

FIFTY-THREE  WAYS  TO  COOK  PEAS,       .  -331 

THIRTY-THREE  WAYS  TO  COOK  PEPPERS,  .       348 

THREE  HUNDRED  AND   THIRTY-SIX  WAYS  TO 

COOK  POTATOES,       ....       360 

SIXTY-THREE  WAYS  TO   COOK   SWEET   POTA- 
TOES,   ......       458 

NINETY  WAYS  TO  COOK  RICE,       .  .  .475 

TWENTY-FIVE  WAYS  TO  COOK  SALSIFY,  .       503 

THIRTY-ONE  WAYS  TO  COOK  SPAGHETTI,  .       509 


(tontent0 


PAGB 
TWENTY-NINB  WAYS  TO  COOK  SPINACH,  .       520 

THIRTY-TWO  WAYS  TO  COOK  SQUASH,  .       529 

ONE  HUNDRED  WAYS  TO  COOK  TOMATOES,     .       538 

PORTY-SIX  WAYS  TO  COOK  TURNIPS,     .  •       571 


FORTY  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES,  .  .       583 


BACK  TALK, 595 

ADDITIONAL  RECIPES,           .             •             .             .       596 
INDEX, 607 


HOW  TO  COOK  VEGETABLES 


PLEASING  TABLES   AND   VEGE- 
TABLES 

Without  unduly  yielding  to  the  cautious,  yet 
belligerent  vegetarian,  most  of  us  will  admit,  in 
candid  moments,  that  we  eat  too  much  meat. 
If  we  did  not,  the  vegetable  peddler  might  have 
an  automobile  as  well  as  the  butcher,  and  his 
picturesque  cart  would  be  seen  no  more  upon 
the  highways  and,  when  the  policeman  is  not 
looking,  the  boulevards. 

As  far  as  anybody  knows  there  is  no  vegetable 
trust,  and  the  men  who  raise  cabbages  are  not 
investigated  by  Federal  authorities,  though  peo- 
ple who  cook  cabbages  too  often  are  sometimes 
spoken  to  by  their  neighbors  in  no  uncertain 
terms. 

"Show  me  what  a  man  eats  and  I  will  tell 
you  what  he  is,"  remarked  some  wise  person. 
Perhaps  he  might  do  it,  but  even  Sherlock  Holmes 
would  be  puzzled  to  tell  what  a  man  eats,  merely 
by  looking  at  the  man.  The  fierce  individual, 
with    the    melancholy   eyes    and    the    drooping 


2  l)ow  to  Cooft  !Deaetable0 

mustache,  is  quite  likely  to  live  on  grains  and 
nuts,  while  the  mild-mannered  man  with  a 
small  squeaky  voice  may  draw  his  daily  suste- 
nance from  steaks  and  chops. 

A  vegetable  diet  is  said,  by  vegetarians,  to 
produce  gentleness  of  spirit  and  to  develop 
spiritual  qualities,  but  this  does  not  explain 
why  vegetarian  conventions  so  often  break  up 
in  rows  that  would  put  meat-eaters  to  shame. 
One  wonders  what  a  vegetarian  convention 
might  be  if  the  members  really  ate  meat.  As 
for  spiritual  qualities,  a  cow  is  popularly  supposed 
to  have  no  soul.  Yet  she  is  a  vegetarian,  either 
because  she  prefers  to  be,  or  has  never  learned  to 
eat  meat,  or  is  afraid  to  trust  her  teeth  on  any 
substance  harder  than  grass  or  bran.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  dog,  most  faithful  friend  of  man, 
is  not  a  vegetarian,  and  while,  in  the  strict  sense 
of  the  word,  he  may  have  no  more  soul  than  a 
bossy-cow,  he  has  qualities  of  patience,  faith, 
generosity,  and  devotion  which  most  of  us  might 
profitably  imitate. 

Leaving  psychology  aside  it  has  been  proved 
by  actual  experience  that  the  combined  cost 
of  the  vegetables  and  fruit  used  upon  the  table 
of  the  average  family  does  not  nearly  equal 
the  butcher's  bill.  It  would  be  better  for  the 
family  bank  account  and,  probably,  for  the 
family,  if  vegetables  were  more  widely  used  and 
appreciated. 

In  spite  of  the  great  variety  of  vegetables 


plcneina  Cables  anb  Vegetablea        3 

grown  in  America,  the  average  cook  fails  her 
worst  in  cooking  them.  Most  vegetables  are 
boiled,  drained,  and  served  with  melted  butter 
or  in  a  cream  sauce.  Potatoes  are  boiled,  baked, 
mashed,  or  fried,  and  sometimes  creamed. 

When  all  the  available  meat  consists  of  beef, 
mutton,  iK>rk,  and  veal,  with  an  occasional  fowl, 
it  is  evident  that  the  variety  which  is  the  spice  of 
life  must  be  obtained  in  some  other  way.  This 
book  has  been  written  in  the  interests  of  variety 
and  economy,  and,  to  make  it  of  the  utmost 
service,  macaroni,  noodles,  hominy,  spaghetti, 
and  chestnuts  have  been  included.  These  may 
not  be  vegetables,  but  they  ought  to  be,  since, 
in  serving,  they  take  the  place  of  a  vegetable. 

Lentils,  rice,  and  macaroni,  especially  when 
combined  with  cheese,  have  high  food  and  fuel 
value.  Spaghetti  or  macaroni,  properly  cooked, 
will  make  any  one  forget  the  existence  of  steaks 
and  roasts.  And,  now  that  this  book  is  published 
there  will  be  no  excuse  for  the  old  familiar  wail : 
'*  I  am  so  tired  of  cooking  the  same  old  potatoes 
in  the  same  old  ways." 

The  author  is  ashamed  to  meet  the  reproachful 
eyes  of  a  potato,  or  even  to  bow  to  a  head  of 
cabbage.  A  cabbage  has  temperament,  per- 
sonality, and  influence  which  reaches  far  and 
wide.  However,  a  bit  of  soda  or  a  slice  of 
stale  bread,  added  to  the  water  in  which  cabbage 
is  cooked,  or  even  a  bit  of  charcoal,  will  minimize 
the  unpleasantness  for  all.     If  you  don't  believe 


4  1)0^  to  dooit  Vegetables 

it,  try  it — and  before  the  bread  is  broken,  change 
it  for  another  piece.  If  you  should  happen  to 
draw  a  long  breath  near  the  bread,  you  will 
doubt  no  more. 

O.  G. 


FIFTY-ONE   SAUCES   FOR  VEGE- 
TABLES 

ALLEMANDE  SAUCE— I 

Put  two  cupfuls  of  white  stock  into  a  saucepan 
with  half  a  dozen  mushrooms,  chopped  fine,  a 
two-inch  strip  of  lemon-peel,  salt  and  pepper  to 
season,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley. 
Simmer  for  an  hour  and  strain.  Thicken  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little 
cold  stock  or  water,  take  from  the  fire,  and  add 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  with  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon.  Reheat,  but  do  not  boil.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

ALLEMANDE  SAUCE— II 

Cook  together  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
and  three  of  flour.  Add  two  cupfuls  of  white 
stock  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  add  the  sauce 
gradually  to  the  eggs,  beating  constantly. 
Strain,  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.     Serve  hot. 

BEARNAISE  SAUCE— I 

Bring  to  the  boil  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
vinegar  and  water.     Simmer  in  it  for  ten  minutes 

5 


6  Dow  to  Cooft  !De0etable0 

a  slice  of  onion.  Take  out  the  onion  and  add 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  very  light.  Take 
from  the  fire,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream. 
The  butter  should  be  added  in  small  bits. 

B^ARNAISE  SAUCE— II 

Beat  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  add  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Heat  in  a 
double  boiler  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then 
take  from  the  fire  and  add  two  more  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter.  Season  with  minced  fine 
herbs  and  parsley  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  tarra- 
gon vinegar. 

B^ARNAISE   SAUCE— III 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  very  light  and 
put  into  a  double  boiler.  Add  gradually  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  olive-oil,  then  the  same  quantity 
of  boiling  water,  then  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon- 
juice.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne  and  serve 
immediately. 

QUICK  BISaRNAISE  SAUCE 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  four  table- 
spoonfuls of  oil  and  four  of  water.  Add  a  cupful 
of  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly  until  thick  and 
smooth.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  add  minced 
onion,  capers,  olives,  pickles,  and  paisley,  and 
a  little  tarragon  vinegar. 


9itt!S*onc  Sattce0  tot  l^etabled        7 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE 

Cook  together  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
butter  and  flour,  add  two  cupfuls  of  white  stock 
and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg. 

BROWN  SAUCE— I 

Brown  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  butter. 
Add  two  cupfuls  of  milk  or  cream  and  cook  until 
thick,  stirring  constantly 

BROWN  SAUCE— II 

Fry  in  pork  fat  two  slices  of  onion,  a  slice  of 
carrot,  a  bay-leaf,  and  a  sprig  of  parsley.  Add  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour  and,  when  brown,  a 
cupful  of  stock.  Cook  until  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Take  from  the  Are,  strain,  add  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 

BROWN  SAUCE— III 

Cook,  together  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
and  three  of  flour,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper. 
When  the  flour  is  brown,  add  gradually  one  and 
one-half  cupfuls  of  stock.  Cook  until  smooth 
and  thick,  stirring  constantly. 

BROWN  BUTTER  SAUCE  OR  BEURRE 

NOIR 

Melt  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  cook  tmtil 
brown,  taking  care  not  to  bum.  Take  from  the 
fire  and  add  lemon-juice  or  vinegar  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  season.     Serve  hot. 


8  tyow  to  Cooft  Vcgetnblc6 

BROWN  ITALIAN  SAUCE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Italian  Sauce,  browning  the  flour  in  the  butter. 

BUTTER  SAUCE— I 

Mix  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs  with  a  liberal 
amount  of  melted  butter.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  minced  parsley. 

BUTTER  SAUCE— II 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  half  a  cupful 
of  cold  water  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar 
or  lemon-juice.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until 
thick,  seasoning  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  onion- 
juice.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  cut  into 
small  pieces,  take  from  the  fire,  and  serve. 

CAPER  SAUCE 

Add  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  capers  to 
two  cupfuls  of  Drawn-Butter  Sauce. 

CHEESE  SAUCE 

Add  half  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese  to  two 
cupfuls  of  Cream  or  Drawn-Butter  Sauce. 

COLBERT  SAUCE 

Put  into  a  saucepan  one  cupful  of  Espagnole 
Sauce,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  beef  extract,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  red  and  white  pepper  and  minced 


fitVs^onc  Saucc0  for  X>cgctablcB       9 

parsley  to  season,  and  half  a  cupful  of  butter 
in  small  bits.  Heat,  but  do  not  boil,  and  serve  at 
once. 

CREAM  SAUCE 

Cook  together  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
two  of  flour.  Add  two  cupfuls  of  cream  or  milk 
and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

CURRY  SAUCE 

Pry  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion  in  butter 
and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  curry  powder.  Mix  thoroughly, 
add  one  cupful  of  cold  water,  and  cook  until 
thick,  stirring  constantly.  Take  from  the  fire, 
season  with  salt  and  onion-juice,  and  serve  hot. 

DRAWN-BUTTER  SAUCE 

Cook  to  a  smooth  paste  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  two  of  flour.  Add  two  cupfuls  of 
cold  water  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

DUTCH  SAUCE 

Cook  together  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  flour 
and  butter,  add  one  cupful  of  white  stock,  and 
cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  take  from  the  fire,  and  add 
the   yolks   of  three   eggs   beaten   with    half   a 


xo  Dow  to  cooft  VcQCtablcs 

cupful  of  cream.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  for 
three  minutes,  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon-juice,  and  strain. 

DUXELLES  SAUCE— I 

Cook  in  butter  one  cupful  of  chopped  mush- 
rooms and  one  tablespoonful  each  of  minced 
onion  and  parsley.  Add  to  one  pint  of  Spanish 
Sauce  and  serve. 

DUXELLES  SAUCE— II 

Prepare  a  pint  of  Velout^  Sauce,  add  a  wine- 
glassful  of  white  wine  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
beef  extract.  Boil  for  five  minutes,  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  each  of  chopped  mushrooms  and  cooked 
beef  tongue  or  ham.  Add  a  little  minced  parsley , 
reheat,  and  serve. 

EGG  SAUCE 

Add  one-half  cupful  of  sliced  or  chopped  hard- 
boiled  eggs  to  two  cupfuls  of  Drawn-Butter 
Sauce  or  sufficient  melted  butter. 

ESPAGNOLE  SAUCE 

Add  a  small  bay-leaf,  a  blade  of  mace,  and 
two  cloves  to  two  cupfuls  of  white  stock.  Sim- 
mer for  fifteen  minutes.  Cook  together  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  three  of  flour;  add 
the  heated  stock  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring 
constantly.     Add    one    tablespoonful    each    of 


fitt^onc  Saucee  for  \)c§ctabiCB      zx 

chopped  ham,  onion,  celery,  carrot,  and  parsley, 
with  salt  and  paprika  to  season.  Simmer  for 
an  hour,  strain,  and  serve  very  hot. 

FRENCH  DRESSING 

Mix  four  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  with  a  pinch 
each  of  salt  and  cayenne,  and  when  thoroughly 
mixed,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  or 
lemon-juice.  Beat  imtil  smooth  and  thick  and 
serve. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

Beat  half  a  cupful  of  butter  to  a  cream  and 
add  gradually  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  pepper  and  salt 
to  season.  Cook  over  boiling  water  until  it 
begins  to  thicken,  beating  with  an  egg-beater. 
Serve  as  soon  as  it  is  of  the  proper  con- 
sistency. Add  a  little  boiling  water  if  it  is  too 
thick. 

ITALIAN  SAUCE 

Fry  a  chopped  onion  in  butter  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  minced  parsley  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  chopped  mushrooms.  Add  one  cupful  of 
white  stock  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Thicken 
with  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together,  take  from  the  Are,  and  add 
a  tablesxx>onful  of  butter  and  a  little  lemon- 
luice. 


la  t)ow  to  cooft  ifcdctablce 

MADEIRA  SAUCE 

Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom  liquor 
and  a  wineglassful  of  Madeira  to  Spanish  Sauce. 

MAITRE  D'H6tEL  SAUCE 

Work  into  half  a  cupful  of  butter  all  the  lemon- 
juice  it  will  take,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  or  more 
of  minced  parsley.  Or,  melt  the  butter  without 
burning,  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  and  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley. 

MAYONNAISE 

Beat  together  in  a  cold  bowl  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Add  also  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Set 
the  bowl  into  a  pan  of  ice  and  add  very  slowly 
a  cupful  of  good  olive-oil,  stirring  constantly. 
The  oil  must  be  added  drop  by  drop  at  first 
and  later  on  a  teaspoonful  or  more  can  be  put  in 
at  a  time.  When  the  dressing  is  smooth  and 
thick,  add  lemon-juice  to  taste.  If  too  thick, 
it  may  he  thinned  with  cream.  The  mustard 
may  be  omitted. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE 

Add  the  desired  quantity  of  chopped  canned 
mushrooms  to  White,  Cream,  Brown,  or  Drawn- 
Butter  Sauce,  using  the  can  liquor  for  part  of 
the  liquid. 


yiftfiiione  Sauced  tot  V>cd€tnblcB      13 

ONION  SAUCE 

Add  half  a  cupful  of  sliced  or  chopped  boiled 
onions  to  two  cupfuls  of  Drawn-Butter  Sauce. 

PARSLEY  SAUCE— I 

Prepare  a  Drawn-Butter  Sauce  according  to 
directions  previously  given,  add  half  a  cupful  of 
finely  minced  parsley,  and  season  with  lemon- 
juice. 

PARSLEY  SAUCE— II 

Boil  two  large  bunches  of  parsley  in  water  to 
cover  for  five  minutes.  Strain  the  water,  and 
thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and 
flour  cooked  together.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  grated  nutmeg,  take  from  the  Are,  add  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  a  little  vinegar, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  small  bits,  and 
a  Uttle  minced  parsley. 

PIQUANTE  SAUCE— I 

Brown  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  butter, 
add  two  cupfuls  of  stock,  and  cook  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  Season  with  salt  and 
cayenne.  Chop  a  small  onion  flne  and  cook  it 
until  tender  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Put  into  the  sauce 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  chopx^ed  capers 
and  cucumber  pickles.  Heat  thoroughly  and 
serve. 


14  l)ow  to  coofK  xoegctablce 

PIQUANTE  SAUCE— II 

Brown  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  butter,  add 
a  cupful  of  stock,  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring 
constantly.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add 
a  finely  minced  clove  of  garlic  and  a  chopped 
shallot.  Add  also  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  and 
cook  slowly  for  twenty  minutes.  Take  out  the 
herbs  and  add  three  or  four  small  pickles  chopped 
fine. 

POULETTE  SAUCE 

Simmer  for  ten  minutes  a  pint  of  White  Sauce, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepx^er,  and  lemon-juice. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  light  and  pour 
the  hot  sauce  over  them  slowly.  Cook  for 
two  minutes  in  a  double  boiler,  and  serve 
immediately. 

SPANISH  SAUCE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Brown  Sauce,  using  one  cupful  of  highly  seasoned 
stock  for  liquid. 

SWEET-AND-SOUR  SAUCE 

Brown  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  in  a  frying-pan 
with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  add  half  a  cupful 
of  vinegar  and  half  a  cupful  of  stock  or  cold 
water.  Cook  until  smooth  and  thick,  stirring 
constantly,  season  to  taste,  and  serve. 


fitt^^onc  Saucee  for  IDcdctablca      15 

TARTARE  SAUCE 

Chop  fine  a  teaspoonful  each  of  pickles,  parsley, 
and  capers.  Mix  with  very  stifT  Mayonnaise. 
A  little  grated  onion  may  be  added  if  desired. 

TOMATO  SAUCE— I 

Pry  a  chopped  onion  and  half  a  clove  of  garlic 
in  butter.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  water,  a  tea* 
spoonful  of  beef  extract,  a  cupful  of  canned 
tomatoes,  and  three  or  four  dried  mushrooms 
soaked  and  chopped.  Simmer  until  smooth  and 
thick,  rub  through  a  sieve,  and  serve. 

TOMATO  SAUCE— II 

Brown  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  butter,  add 
a  cupful  of  stewed  tomatoes,  and  salt,  pepper, 
grated  onion,  powdered  cloves,  and  mace  to 
season.  Cook  until  smooth  and  thick,  stirring 
constantly,  rub  through  a  sieve,  and  serve. 

TOMATO  SAUCE— III 

Rub  a  can  of  tomatoes  through  a  sieve  fine 
enough  to  keep  back  the  seeds,  or  add  Italian 
tomato  paste  to  the  desired  quantity  of  boiling 
water.  There  should  be  a  pint  of  liquid.  Cook 
together  two  tablespoonf  uls  each  of  butter  and 
fiour,  add  the  liquid,  and  cook  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 


I 

z6  f)ow  to  CoofK  vcQctableB 

TOMATO  SAUCE— IV 

Chop  together  capers,  pickles,  onion,  and 
olives.  There  should  be  half  a  cupful  in  all: 
Add  one-half  cupful  of  stewed  and  strained 
tomatoes,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  made  mustard 
and  sugar,  and  salt  and  cayenne  to  season  highly. 
Serve  very  hot. 

TOMATO  SAUCE— V 

Chop  fine  an  onion  and  a  clove  of  garlic. 
Fry  in  butter  and  add  half  a  can  of  stewed 
and  strained  tomatoes.  Thicken  with  butter  and 
flour  cooked  together,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  serve. 

TOMATO  SAUCE— VI 

Fry  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion  in 
butter,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one- 
half  cupful  each  of  stock  and  stewed  and  strained 
tomato.  Cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  kitchen  bouquet. 
Strain  and  serve. 

TOMATO  CREAM  SAUCE 

Cook  together  for  ten  minutes  one  cupful  of 
tomatoes,  a  slice  of  onion,  two  cloves,  two  pepper- 
corns, a  stalk  of  celery,  and  a  bit  of  bay-leaf.  Rub 
through  a  sieve  and  thicken  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  cooked  in  butter.     Season  with 


,aKtmesimmmmmtsi^^,^^^m^mtm 


fitt^^^nc  Sauced  (or  Vegetables      17 

salt,  paprika,  and  sugar,  add  one  cupful  of  hot 
cream,  bring  to  the  boil,  add  a  pinch  of  soda,  and 
serve. 

VELOUT^  SAUCE 

Cook  together  three  tablespoonf  uls  each  of  but- 
ter and  flour,  add  one  cupful  of  white  stock  and 
one  quarter  cupful  of  cream.  Cook  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne, 
grated  nutmeg,  and  minced  parsley.  Simmer 
for  an  hour,  strain,  and  serve. 

VINAIGRETTE  SAUCE 

Beat  together  four  tablespoonfuls  of  olive-oil 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  with  salt  and 
red  pepper  to  season.  Chop  fine  a  little  parsley, 
onion,  and  sweet  pickle,  or  capers,  and  mix  with 
the  sauce.     Serve  with  cold  meat. 

WHITE  SAUCE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Cream  Sauce,  using  white  stock  for  liquid. 


9 


FORTY-TWO  WAYS  TO  COOK  ARTI- 
CHOKES 

RAW  ARTICHOKES 

Hold  the  artichokes  in  the  left  hand  by  the 
tips  of  the  leaves  and  cut  in  slices  from  the 
bottom,  each  slice  having  a  leaf  attached. 
Dip  into  French  dressing  or  Vinaigrette  Sauce, 
which  is  served  in  a  small  dish  at  each  plate. 

BOILED  ARTICHOKES 

Cut  off  the  tips  of  the  leaves  and  rotind  off  the 
bottoms,  removing  the  stalk  and  trimming  away 
the  under  leaves.  Soak  for  half  an  hour  in 
salted  water,  washing  thoroughly.  Boil  until 
tender  in  a  large  quantity  of  salted  water. 
Drain,  and  remove  the  soft  inside  with  a  spoon. 
Put  into  a  serving-dish,  dot  with  butter,  heat 
until  the  butter  is  melted,  and  serve.  Or,  serve 
with  Bechamel  or  HoUandaise  Sauce. 

BOILED  ITALIAN  ARTICHOKES 

Cut  off  the  stems  and  boil  until  tender  in 
salted  water.  Cut  in  half  from  top  to  bottom 
and  serve  a  half  to  each  person.     Pass  with  them 

z8 


fortiS'^wo  TIQlai^  to  doofi  ?itticbofie0  19 

Hollandaise  Sauce.  The  stems  are  stripped  off, 
the  soft  end  dipped  into  the  sauce  and  eaten. 
The  fuzzy  part  should  be  scraped  off  and  the 
bottom  of  the  artichoke  eaten  with  a  fork. 

BAKED  ARTICHOKES 

Clean  and  trim  the  artichokes.  Boil  until  ten- 
der in  salted  water  and  tie  a  thin  slice  of  bacon 
around  each  one  with  a  string.  Put  the  arti- 
chokes into  a  buttered  baking-pan  with  a  thin 
slice  of  onion  on  top  of  each.  Add  two  chopped 
shallots,  six  fresh  mushrooms  cut  into  quarters, 
a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley,  and  a  cupful 
of  stock.  Cover  and  bake  for  half  an  hour,  bast- 
ing occasionally,  then  uncover  and  bake  for 
half  an  hour  longer.  Remove  the  bacon  and 
string,  arrange  on  a  platter,  put  a  tablespoonful  of 
Hollandaise  Sauce  on  each  one  and  serve. 

BRAISED  ARTICHOKES 

Boil  eight  artichokes  in  salted  water  until  ten- 
der. Drain  and  remove  the  inside  parts.  Prepare 
a  Duxelles  Sauce,  adding  a  handful  of  fresh 
bread-crumbs,  and,  while  hot,  the  yolks  of  three 
raw  eggs  well  beaten,  and  season  to  taste.  Fill 
the  artichokes,  cover  each  with  a  thin  slice  of 
fat  pork  and  tie  into  shape  with  strings.  Put 
into  a  shallow  baking-pan,  add  two  cupfuls  of 
stock,  cover,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour.  Take 
off  the  strings,  drain,  and  serve  with  Madeira 
Sauce. 


20  f>ow  to  cook  iDegetabled 

FRIED  ARTICHOKES— I 

Clean  and  trim  the  artichokes,  cut  into  small 
pieces,  wash  in  acidulated  water,  drain,  and 
marinate  in  French  dressing  if  desired.  Add 
three  well-beaten  eggs  to  the  dressing  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  batter.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  water  if  the  dressing  is  not  used.  Cover  the 
artichokes  with  the  batter,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and 
drain.     Serve  with  a  garnish  of  fried  parsley. 

FRIED  ARTICHOKES— II 

Wash,  trim,  and  boil  the  artichokes  in  salted 
water  and  remove  the  chokes  and  outer  leaves. 
Cut  into  small  pieces,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  minced  parsley.  Dip  in  batter  and  fry  brown 
in  oil  or  drippings;  or  fry  in  deep  fat.  Garnish 
with  fried  parsley  and  serve. 

ARTICHOKES  SAUt6  A  LA  BABETTE 

Cut  green  artichokes  into  quarters  and  remove 
the  choke.  Trim  the  leaves  neatly,  parboil 
five  minutes  in  salted  water  and  drain.  Put 
into  a  buttered  casserole,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  butter,  cover  and  cook  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Serve  with 
Hollandaise  Sauce. 

FRIED  ITALIAN  ARTICHOKES 

Cut  off  the  leaves,  trim  away  the  fuzzy 
portion,  and  cook  imtil  tender  in  salted  water. 


fott^*Zxoo  WivsB  to  Cook  Articbofied  21 

Drain  and  chill  on  ice.  Make  a  batter  of  half  a 
cupful  of  flour  sifted  twice  with  a  pinch  each 
of  salt  and  baking-powder  mixed  with  half  a 
cupful  of  milk  and  one  well-beaten  egg.  Cut 
each  artichoke  into  halves,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dip  in  batter,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Drain  and  serve  with  any  preferred  sauce. 

STUFFED  ARTICHOKES— I 

Clean  and  trim  the  artichokes,  boil  in  salted 
water  until  tender,  drain  and  scoop  out  the  soft 
portion  with  a  spoon.  Season  a  cupful  of  chop- 
ped cooked  chicken  with  salt,  pepper,  melted 
butter,  and  onion-juice.  Put  the  artichokes  into 
a  buttered  baking-pan,  fill  with  the  chicken,  rub 
with  butter,  tie  into  shape  with  strings,  add 
two  cupfuls  of  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes, 
a  slice  of  onion,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter.  Bake  slowly  for  an  hour,  basting 
occasionally  with  the  liquid.  Take  off  the 
strings,  strain  over  the  sauce,  and  serve. 

STUFFED  ARTICHOKES— II 

Trim  four  artichokes,  remove  the  centres,  and 
boil  for  half  an  hour  in  salted  and  acidulated 
water.  Drain,  stuff  with  chicken  forcemeat, 
mixing  with  Duxelles  Sauce  if  desired,  and  put 
into  a  shallow  baking-pan.  Bake  for  half  an 
hour,  basting  with  white  stock  and  melted 
butter,  or  with  butter  only.  Serve  with  White 
Sauce. 


33  Dow  to  cooft  iPegetables 

STUFFED  ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS— I 

Cook  eight  artichoke  bottoms  in  boiling  water, 
drain,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  fill  with 
Duxelles  Sauce,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter,  and  bake  for  ten  minutes,  basting 
with  stock.     Serve  in  the  same  dish. 

STUFFED  ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS— II 

Wash  eight  artichoke  bottoms  in  boiling  water, 
drain,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  into 
a  buttered  baking-pan  with  a  little  boiling  stock. 
Braise  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Fill  the  centres 
with  a  vegetable  macedoine  mixed  with  White 
or  Bechamel  Sauce.  Serve  in  a  vegetable  dish 
with  the  gravy  poured  over. 

STEWED  ARTICHOKES 

Strip  off  the  leaves,  remove  the  chokes,  and 
soak  in  warm  water  for  three  hours,  changing 
the  water  twice.  Drain,  put  into  a  saucepan 
with  enough  stock  to  cover,  a  tablespoonful 
of  mushroom  catsup,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
Cook  slowly  until  tender,  and  serve  very  hot. 

FRICASSEE  OF  ARTICHOKES 

Prepare  the  artichokes  according  to  directions 
given  for  stewed  artichokes,  and  drain.  Make 
a  Cream  Sauce,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
powdered  cinnamon.  Reheat  the  artichokes 
thoroughly  for  five  or  six  minutes,  and  serve. 


9otti2^(rwo  TDSlaiSd  to  Cooft  Artfcbofted  23 

ARTICHOKES  A  L'ALLEMANDE 

Prepare  and  trim  four  artichokes.  Put  into 
a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and 
pepper.  Simmer  until  they  are  cooked,  drain 
and  brown  in  the  oven.  Put  a  cupful  of  stock 
into  the  pan  in  which  they  were  cooked,  heat 
thoroughly,  thicken  with  flour  browned  in  butter, 
add  a  wineglassful  of  white  wine,  and  serve. 

ARTICHOKES  A  LA  BARIGOULE 

Trim  off  the  leaves  from  the  bottom  and  cut 
half  an  inch  from  the  top  of  the  artichokes. 
Wash  thoroughly  and  boil  until  tender  in  a  large 
saucepan  of  salted  water.  Drain,  scoop  out  the 
soft  inside  part,  and  squeeze  dry.  Fry  the  tops 
in  oil.  Fry  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  bacon 
in  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  add  a  little  flour  and 
enough  stock  to  make  a  sauce.  Season  with 
fine  herbs  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Season  the  drained  artichokes  with 
salt  and  pepper,  put  in  a  little  of  the  sauce, 
cover  with  a  thin  slice  of  bacon,  tie  in  shape  with 
string,  put  into  a  baking-pan  with  a  little  stock 
and  bake  for  twenty  minutes,  basting  frequently. 
Take  off  the  string  and  bacon  and  serve  with 
a  garnish  of  the  fried  leaves. 

ARTICHOKES  A  LA  CR^ME 

Trim  the  artichokes  and  soak  for  half  an 
hour  in  cold  and  acidulated  water  to  cover. 


34  Dow  to  Cooft  v^egetables 

Rinse  in  fresh  water  and  cook  in  salted  water  to 
cover  until  tender.  Drain  and  reheat  in  a  Cream 
Sauce.  An  egg  beaten  with  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  and  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  may  be  added 
to  the  sauce. 

ARTICHOKES  A  L'lTALIENNE 

Wash,  quarter,  and  trim  the  artichokes,  boil 
in  salted  water  until  tender,  drain,  remove 
the  chokes,  and  arrange  them  on  a  dish  with 
the  leaves  outward.  Pour  over  White  Sauce, 
flavored  with  stewed  mushrooms,  and  garnish 
with  watercress. 

ARTICHOKES  X  LA  LYONNAISE— I 

Prepare  and  clean  the  artichokes,  boil  until 
tender  in  salted  water,  drain,  wipe  dry,  and  fry 
in  equal  parts  of  butter  and  oil.  When  brown 
add  half  a  cupful  of  beef  stock,  thicken  with 
butter  worked  in  flour,  and  boil  for  three  minutes. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  minced  parsley,  and 
lemon-juice,  and  serve. 

ARTICHOKES  A  LA  LYONNAISE— II 

Pull  off  the  leaves,  cut  the  artichokes  into 
quarters,  parboil  in  salted  water  for  five  minutes, 
drain  and  plunge  into  cold  water.  Drain  again 
and  arrange  in  a  thickly  buttered  baking-dish. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar,  salt,  and  white  pepper,  add 
a  wineglassful  of  white  wine  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  rich  beef  stock.      Simmer  slowly  for  three 


fortiS«'^wo  WUc^  to  aoofi  Atticbofied  25 

quarters  of  an  hour.  Add  a  scant  cupful  of 
Espagnole  Sauce  or  Brown  Italian  Sauce,  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  little  lemon-juice. 
Pour  over  the  artichokes,  and  serve. 

ARTICHOKES  A  LA  LYONS 

Trim  six  large  artichokes,  cut  into  quarters 
and  parboil  in  salted  water.  Drain  and  fry  in 
butter.  Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  wineglassful 
of  white  wine,  half  a  cupful  of  stock,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  season.  Cook  until  tender  and 
serve  on  toast. 

ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS  A  L'ORLOFF 

Marinate  for  an  hour  in  French  dressing  eight 
cooked  artichoke  bottoms.  Fill  with  a  vegetable 
macedoine  seasoned  with  French  dressing,  cover 
with  a  layer  of  thick  mayonnaise,  sprinkle  with 
minced  parsley,  and  serve  very  cold. 

ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS  A  LA  POMPADOUR 

Cover  eight  artichoke  bottoms  with  Cream 
Sauce.  Lay  on  each  one  a  large  floweret  of 
boiled  cauliflower,  cover  with  more  of  the  sauce, 
sprinkle  with  crtunbs  and  grated  cheese,  dot 
with  melted  butter,  and  bake  brown  in  a  buttered 
pan,  basting  with  stock  as  needed.  Serve  with 
Maitre  d*H6tel  Sauce. 

ARTICHOKES  A  LA  PROVEN gALE 
Peel  the  artichokes  and  boil  in  salted  water 


26  Dow  to  coofi  \)CQCtnblC6 

until  tender.  Drain  and  serve  with  a  cupful 
of  Brown  Butter  Sauce  to  which  has  been'  added 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  lemon- juice. 

ARTICHOKES  A  LA  TARTARE 

Cut  the  stalk  close,  using  the  globe  artichokes, 
then  with  the  scissors  cut  the  sharp  point  from 
the  leaves,  removing  not  more  than  half  an  inch 
from  each.  Wash  in  cold  water  to  which  a  little 
vinegar  has  been  added,  drain  and  cook  gently 
until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water.  Drain  up- 
side down  until  dry.  Fill  with  Tartare  Sauce 
or  with  a  sauce  made  as  follows: 

Beat  together  half  a  cupful  of  melted  butter, 
a  teaspoonful  each  of  lemon- juice  and  olive-oil, 
and  salt,  paprika,  French  mustard,  and  grated 
onion  to  season.  Bring  to  the  boil,  take  from 
the  fire,  and  pour  it  very  slowly  upon  one  well- 
beaten  egg.  Pour  over  the  artichokes,  and 
serve. 

ARTICHOKES    X    LA    VINAIGRETTE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Artichokes  k  la  Cr^me.  Drain,  and  serve  with 
Vinaigrette  Sauce. 

ARTICHOKES  WITH  MAYONNAISE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Artichokes  k  la  Cr^me.  Drain,  and  serve  cold 
with  mayonnaise. 


fortiS^TTwo  HQlai^d  to  Cooft  Htticboftes  27 

ARTICHOKE    QUARTERS    WITH    DUTCH 

SAUCE 

Cut  the  leaves  of  the  artichokes  very  short,  cut 
off  the  tops,  cut  in  quarters,  and  remove  the 
chokes.  Soak  in  salted  water  for  half  an  hour, 
drain  and  cook  in  white  stock  to  cover,  adding 
a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  lemon- juice 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Simmer  for  half  an  hour, 
drain  and  pour  over  them  a  Dutch  Sauce.  Arti- 
choke bottoms  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

ARTICHOKES  WITH  BUTTER  SAUCE 

Clean  and  trim  six  artichokes  and  boil  in 
salted  water  for  forty-five  minutes.  Take  out 
the  fibrous  portion  from  the  underside,  cover  with 
fresh  boiling  water,  drain  them  upside  down, 
and  fill  with  a  sauce  made  as  follows: 

Mix  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour  with  half 
a  cupful  of  cold  water,  add  a  little  salt,  two 
pepper-corns,  a  dash  of  grated  nutmeg,  a  clove, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Bring  to  the  boil, 
and  cook  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes.  Take  from 
the  fire,  and  add  gradually  one  cupful  of  butter 
and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  If  it  is  too  thick  add 
a  little  more  water.     Strain  through  a  wet  cloth. 

PURINE  OF  ARTICHOKES 

Clean  some  artichoke  bottoms  and  cook 
until  soft  in  salted  water.  Drain,  rinse,  and  cut 
into  small  pieces.     Reheat  in  a  saucepan  with  an 


28  l)ow  to  Cooft  IDegetables 

equal  quantity  of  Bechamel  Sauce  and  cook 
until  slightly  reduced.  Rub  through  a  fine  sieve, 
season  with  butter  and  cream  and  serve. 

PUR^E  OP  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES 

Melt  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add 
a  sUced  onion,  two  bay-leaves,  three  pounds  of 
Jerusalem  artichokes  washed,  pared,  and  cut 
into  slices  and  half  a  pound  of  bacon  cut  into 
small  pieces.  Cook  slowly  for  ten  minutes  and 
add  gradually,  one  cupful  of  stock.  When 
the  vegetables  are  thoroughly  cooked,  add  an- 
other cupful  of  stock,  and  pepper  and  salt 
to  season.  Serve  on  toast.  Or,  boil  until  ten- 
der in  stock  to  cover,  drain,  press  through  a 
colander,  and  reheat,  seasoning  with  butter, 
salt,  and  pepper. 

FRIED  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES 

Peel,  wash,  and  cook  in  salted  water.  Drain, 
rinse  in  cold  water,  cut  into  thin  slices,  and  dry 
on  a  cloth.  Fry  in  hot  butter,  seasoning  with 
salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  with  minced  parsley 
and  serve.  Or,  prepare  according  to  directions 
given  for  Saratoga  Chips.     (See  Potatoes.) 

BAKED  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES— I 

Peel  and  trim  a  dozen  artichokes,  seasoning 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish  and  bake  for  half  an  hour,  basting 
frequently.     Serve  in  the  same  dish. 


yorti^^tTwo  tKHai^  to  Coofc  Htticboftee  29 

BAKED  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES— II 

Wash  and  pare  the  artichokes,  boil  until  tender, 
cut  into  slices  and  put  into  a  baking-dish. 
Sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  cover 
with  White  or  Cream  Sauce,  sprinkle  with 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  until  the 
crumbs  are  brown. 

BRAISED  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES 

Peel,  wash,  and  parboil  the  artichokes.  Drain, 
and  put  into  a  baking-dish  with  enough  stock 
to  moisten.  Add  a  small  bunch  of  parsley, 
a  few  slices  of  carrot,  and  a  small  onion.  Cover 
and  bake  slowly  for  an  hour,  adding  a  little 
more  liquid  if  required.  Remove  the  onion, 
carrot,  and  parsley  and  serve  in  a  vegetable  dish 
with  the  strained  liquid  poured  over. 

MASHED  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES 

Wash  and  peel  fifteen  artichokes.  Cover  with 
cold  salted  water,  bring  to  the  boil  and  cook 
until  tender.  Drain,  press  through  a  colander, 
season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  serve 
very  hot. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES  WITH  BROWN 

SAUCE 

Peel  the  artichokes,  cut  into  dice  and  cook 
until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water.  Drain, 
and  reheat  in  a  Brown  Sauce. 


30  1>ow  to  dooli  X>CQCtnblCS 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES  X  LA  CrSmE 

Wash  and  peel  fifteen  artichokes  and  cook 
until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover. 
Drain  and  reheat  in  butter  with  a  little  cream. 
Simmer  for  ten  minutes,  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  minced  parsley,  and  serve,  or  serve  with 
White  or  Cream  Sauce. 

JERUSALEM    ARTICHOKES    AU    GRATIN 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Jerusalem  Artichokes  k  la  Cr^me.  Sprinkle 
with  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  dot  with  butter, 
and  brown  in  the  oven,  using  the  dish  in  which 
it  is  to  be  served. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES  X  LA  JERSEY 

Wash  and  scrape  the  artichokes,  cover  with 
boiling  salted  water,  and  cook  until  tender. 
Drain,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  dry.  Serve  with 
melted  butter  or  with  White  or  Bechamel 
Sauce,  or  with  Maltre  d'H6tel  Sauce. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES  X  LA  VINAI- 

GRETTE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Jerusalem  Artichokes  with  Brown  Sauce.  Drain, 
cool,  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  with 
Vinaigrette  Sauce. 


FORTY-FIVE    WAYS    TO    COOK 
ASPARAGUS 

BOILED  ASPARAGUS 

Scrax)e  and  clean  the  asparagus  and  tie  into 
bundles  of  five  or  six  stalks  each,  taking  care 
to  have  the  heads  even.  Cook  rapidly  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender.  Drain  and  serve  on 
toast  with  melted  butter  to  which  a  little  lemon- 
juice  may  be  added.  Drawn-Butter,  Cream, 
Hollandaise,  or  White  Sauce  may  be  used  instead 
The  tips  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

BAKED  ASPARAGUS— I 

Cut  the  tender  parts  of  the  asparagus  into 
inch  lengths,  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water  and 
drain.  Put  a  layer  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  dot  with  butter, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  hard-boiled  eggs 
chopped  fine.  Repeat  until  the  dish  is  full, 
having  crumbs  and  butter  on  top.  Bake  for 
half  an  hour  and  serve  in  the  same  dish.  A  thin 
Cream  Sauce  may  be  poured  over  before  sprink- 
ling with  the  crumbs,  and  the  eggs  omitted.  A 
little  grated  cheese  may  be  used  instead. 

31 


32  f)ow  to  Cook  XOcQetablCB 

BAKED  ASPARAGUS— II 

Cook  the  required  quantity  of  white  asparagus 
in  salted  water  and  drain.  Mix  two  cupfuls  of 
thick  Bechamel  Sauce  with  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  and  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.  Bring  to  the  boil.  Arrange 
a  layer  of  asparagus  in  an  oval  buttered  baking- 
dish  with  the  heads  all  one  way.  Cover  with 
sauce,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and  repeat 
until  the  dish  is  full,  having  crumbs,  cheese  and 
sauce  on  top.  Dot  with  butter  and  brown  in  the 
oven.  Serve  in  the  same  dish.  Drawn-Butter 
or  Hollandaise  Sauce  may  be  used  instead. 

BAKED  ASPARAGUS— III 

Cook  the  asparagus  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  tender.  Drain  and  put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish  with  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
between  the  layers.  Chop  a  small  onion  fine, 
fry  in  butter,  spread  over  the  asparagus,  sprinkle 
with  cheese  and  crumbs  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

ASPARAGUS  BAKED  WITH  CHEESE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Asparagus.  Make  a  sauce  of  three  table- 
spoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  flour,  one  cupful 
of  the  water  in  which  the  asparagus  was  boiled 
and  half  a  cupful  of  cream.  Add  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese. 
Heat  thoroughly  but  do  not  boil.     Lay  the  as- 


gott^i^Sivc  Maisd  to  CooR  Ttepata^ud  33 

paragus  full  length  into  a  buttered  oval  baking- 
dish,  cover  with  sauce,  sprinkle  with  cheese, 
and  repeat  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  sauce  on 
top.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  cheese,  dot  with 
butter  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

BAKED  ASPARAGUS  WITH  EGGS 

Cut  the  tender  parts  of  asparagus  into  half- 
inch  lengths  and  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water. 
Drain,  mix  with  a  Drawn-Butter  Sauce  seasoning 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish.  Break  five  or  six  eggs  carefully 
on  the  surface,  dot  with  butter,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  put  in  the  oven  until  the 
eggs  have  set. 

FRIED  ASPARAGUS 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Asparagiis,  drain,  dry,  dip  in  egg  and 
crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Canned  asparagus 
may  be  used  if  dipped  in  seasoned  flour,  then  in 
egg  and  crumbs. 

CANNED  ASPARAGUS 

Open  the  can,  drain  off  the  liquid,  rinse  in 
cold  water,  add  fresh  boiling  water  and  heat 
thoroughly  in  the  oven.  Remove  from  the  can, 
drain,  and  serve  the  same  as  fresh  asparagus. 

CANNED  ASPARAGUS  STEWED 

Drain  the  liquid  from  the  can  if  it  is  not  bitter 

3 


34  l>ow  to  Cooft  Vegetablcd 

and  add  enough  stock  to  make  a  cupful.  If  the 
liquid  is  bitter  use  stock  entirely.  Cook  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  in  butter,  add  the  liquid  and 
half  a  cupful  of  cream  and  cook  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  Reheat  the  asparagus  in  the 
sauce,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nut- 
meg, and  serve. 

ASPARAGUS  TIPS  SAUCE 

Boil  the  tips  until  done  in  salted  water  and 
drain  thoroughly.  Saut^  in  melted  butter, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg, 
and  a  little  sugar. 

CREAMED  ASPARAGUS— I 

Boil  the  tender  parts  of  asparagus  until 
tender,  drain,  and  chop.  Reheat  in  a  Cream 
Sauce  to  which  a  bit  of  baking  soda  has  been 
added.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  cool. 
Stir  into  it  three  eggs  well  beaten  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish  and  bake  covered  for  twenty 
minutes,  then  uncover  and  brown. 

CREAMED  ASPARAGUS— II 

Cut  the  head  ends  of  asparagus  into  two-inch 
lengths,  parboil  for  ten  minutes  in  salted  water, 
and  drain.  Put  a  heaping  tablespoonf4il  of  but- 
ter into  a  saucepan,  add  the  asparagus,  and 
when  hot,  sprinkle  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Add  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  and  pepper  and  salt 


fovt^t^fivc  tniai30  to  Cook  TldpatadUd  35 

tx)  season.  Cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk,  add  to  the  asparagus,  simmer 
until  smooth  and  thick,  and  serve. 

ASPARAGUS  CROUSTADES— I 

Cut  off  the  ends  of  stale  French  rolls,  scrape 
out  the  crumb,  and  fry  the  shells  and  tops  in 
deep  fat.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and  keep  hot. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  with  one  cupful  of 
cream  or  milk,  season  with  salt  and  nutmeg, 
and  add  a  sufficient  quantity  of  cooked  asparagus, 
cut  into  small  pieces.  Fill  the  rolls  with  this 
mixture,  put  on  the  lids,  heat  thoroughly,  and 
serve. 

ASPARAGUS  CROUSTADES— II 

Cut  a  loaf  of  baker's  bread  into  three-inch 
cubes  and  hollow  out  the  centres,  leaving  a  thin 
shell.  Rub  with  butter  and  brown  in  the  oven, 
or  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain.  Fill  with  cooked 
asparagus  tips,  reheated  in  Cream  Sauce,  sprinkle 
with  minced  parsley,  and  serve. 

ASPARAGUS  IN  AMBUSH 

Cut  the  top  slice  from  stale  French  rolls,  scoop 
out  the  crumb,  and  rub  with  melted  butter. 
Put  in  the  oven  with  the  lids  to  become  crisp. 
Cut  into  small  pieces  the  tender  parts  of  two 
bunches  of  asparagus,  boil  in  salted  water ,^  and 
drain.     Boil  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  add  four  well- 


36  f>ow  to  CooM  tt^e0etable0 

beaten  eggs,  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
season,  and  the  asparagus.  Heat  thoroughly 
but  do  not  boil,  fill  the  rolls  with  the  mixture, 
put  on  the  lids,  let  stand  in  the  oven  for  three 
minutes,  and  serve. 

ASPARAGUS  LOAF— I 

Cut  the  top  crust  lengthwise  from  a  loaf  of 
baker's  bread,  scoop  out  the  crumbs,  and  fry 
both  the  shell  and  lid  in  deep  fat.  Drain  and 
keep  warm.  Fill  with  creamed  asparagus  to 
which  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs  have 
been  added.  Fill  the  shell,  put  on  the  cover, 
and  serve  with  a  garnish  of  parsley. 

ASPARAGUS  LOAF— II 

Cook  three  cupfuls  of  asparagus  tips  until 
tender,  and  drain.  Reheat  one  cupful  of  Cream 
Sauce.  Put  the  rest  into  a  well-buttered  baking- 
dish,  pour  over  the  asparagus  and  sauce,  set 
into  a  pan  of  water,  and  put  into  the  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  minced  parsley 
and  serve  with  Egg  Sauce. 

ASPARAGUS  PATTIES 

Make  a  sauce  of  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
butter  and  fiour  cooked  together  and  half  a 
cupful  each  of  chicken  stock,  cream,  and  the 
water  in  which  a  bunch  of  asparagus  has  been 
boiled.    Add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with 


yortiS'^ytve  Wiwee  to  coofi  Ttspatagud  37 

a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice,  salt,  and  pepper  to 
season,  and  a  bunch  of  cooked  asparagus  cut  in 
small  pieces.  Pill  patty-shells,  heat  thoroughly, 
and  serve. 

ESCALLOPED  ASPARAGUS— I 

Wash  and  cut  up  a  btmch  of  asparagus,  dis- 
carding the  tough  ends.  Boil  in  salted  water 
until  tender,  and  drain.  Boil  three  eggs  hard, 
throw  into  cold  water,  remove  the  shells,  and 
chop  fine.  Butter  a  shallow  baking-dish,  put  in 
a  layer  of  asparagus,  cover  with  chopped  eggs, 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and  repeat  until 
the  dish  is  full,  having  asparagus  on  top.  Pour 
over  two  cupfuls  of  Drawn-Butter  or  Cream 
Sauce,  cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter, 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and  bake  until  brown. 

ESCALLOPED  ASPARAGUS— II 

Make  a  Cream  Sauce  and  add  to  it  three  or 
four  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs.  Put  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish  a  layer  of  cooked  asparagus 
cut  into  two-inch  lengths.  Spread  with  the 
sauce  and  repeat  until  the  dish  is  full,  having 
sauce  on  top.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

ASPARAGUS  WITH  CREAM 

Clean  a  bunch  of  asparagus,  cut  into  small 
pieces,  cook  in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes, 
and   drain.     Put  into    another  saucepan   with 


38  HyoxQ  to  Cooft  Vcgctublce 

boiling  water  to  cover,  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a 
pinch  of  sugar,  and  an  onion.  Simmer  for  half 
an  hour,  remove  the  onion,  thicken  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  smooth  with  a  little  cream, 
and  serve. 

STEWED  ASPARAGUS 

Cut  the  tender  parts  of  asparagus  into  inch 
lengths  and  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water. 
Drain  and  reheat  with  a  cupful  or  more  of  cream, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  salt  and  black 
pepper  to  season.  Bring  to  the  boil  and  serve. 
The  tips  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way.  Re- 
heat in  Cream  Sauce,  seasoning  with  butter,  salt, 
sugar,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Serve  on  thin 
rounds  of  toast. 

ASPARAGUS  WITH  EGG  SAUCE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Asparagus,  and  drain  carefully.  Allow 
the  yolk  of  one  hard-boiled  egg  for  each  person, 
mash  it  to  a  powder,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  add  enough  melted  butter  to  make 
it  as  thick  as  mayonnaise.  Serve  the  sauce 
separately. 

ASPARAGUS  FRICASSEE 

Clean  and  cut  up  twenty-five  stalks  of  aspara- 
gus, discarding  the  tough  ends.  Drain  and 
chop  with  one  head  of  lettuce  half  a  head  of 
endive  ^nd  a  small  onion.     Put  ^  heaping  table- 


yorts»f  ive  Wn^  to  Cooft  HdpatadUd  39 

spoonful  of  butter  into  a  saucepan  and  cook  in  it 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Add  one  cupful  of 
stock  and  cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  the  chopped  vegetables  with 
pepper  and  salt  to  season,  simmer  for  half  an 
hour,  and  serve  very  hot. 

ASPARAGUS  WITH  EGGS 

Clean  two  bunches  of  asparagus,  cut  into 
two-inch  lengths,  and  boil  for  half  an  hour  in 
salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  put  into  a  serving- 
dish,  add  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  butter  and  pepper 
to  season.  Beat  six  eggs  light  with  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
pour  over  the  asparagus,  and  put  into  a  hot  oven 
until  the  eggs  set.  Sprinkle  with  minced 
parsley,  and  serve  immediately. 

ASPARAGUS  MOULD 

Drain  the  liquid  from  a  can  of  asparagus  and 
line  a  pint  mould  thickly  with  the  stalks.  Cook 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  butter,  add  a 
cupful  of  hot  milk,  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring 
constantly.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne,  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  finely  chopped  cooked 
veal  or  chicken,  one  cupful  of  asparagus  tips, 
and  five  well-beaten  egg  yolks.  Turn  into  the 
mould,  put  into  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  the  centre  is  firm.  Turn 
out,  and  garnish  with  chopped  cooked  asparagus 


40  Dow  to  CooM  tt^egetabled 

seasoned  with  melted  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Serve  plain  or  with  any  preferred  sauce. 

ragoCt  of  asparagus       • 

Chop  fine  a  little  parsley,  two  or  three  young 
onions,  and  a  few  leaves  of  lettuce.  Fry  brown 
in  butter,  dredge  with  flour,  add  a  little  water, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Reheat  cooked 
asparagus  with  this,  sprinkle  with  grated  nutmeg, 
and  serve  very  hot. 

ASPARAGUS  X  L'ALLEMANDE 

Boil  until  tender  in  salted  water,  drain,  remove 
the  strings,  and  put  on  a  buttered  platter.  Cover 
with  fried  bread-crumbs,  and  serve. 

ASPARAGUS  X  L'ANGLAISE 

Cut  the  tender  parts  of  two  bunches  of 
asparagus  into  inch  lengths  and  cook  until  tender 
in  salted  water.  Drain  thoroughly,  beat  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs  with  a  tablespoonful  of  milk 
or  cream,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  melted. 
Mix  with  the  asparagus,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  stir  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites. 
Heat  thoroughly  and  serve. 

ASPARAGUS  A  LA  BABETTE 

Boil  the  tender  parts  of  asparagus  in  salted 
water  until  tender,  drain,  and  untie  the  string. 
Reheat  in  a  sauce  made  of  chicken  stock  thickened 


f  ortis«*yive  WniitB  to  dooli  Tldpacagus  41 

with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together.      Serve 
very  hot  on  toast. 

ASPARAGUS  TIPS  A  LA  BlSCHAMEL 

Clean  the  asparagtis  and  cut  off  the  tips. 
Parboil  in  salted  water,  drain,  reheat  with  a 
little  melted  butter,  add  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
Bechamel  Sauce,  finish  cooking,  and  serve. 

ASPARAGUS  A  LA  Bi^ARNAISE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Asparagus  and  serve  with  B6amaise 
Sauce. 

ASPARAGUS  A  LA  CR^ME 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Asparagus,  boiling  the  cut  stalks  for 
fifteen  minutes  before  putting  in  the  tips.  Drain, 
reheat  in  a  Cream  Sauce,  and  serve.  Asparagus 
k  la  Cr^me  may  be  served  in  patty-shells  or 
croustades  for  an  entr6e. 

ASPARAGUS  A  L'ESPAGNOLE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Asparagus,  and  arrange  on  a  serving-dish. 
Lay  upon  it  fresh  eggs  poached  in  acidulated 
water.  Pour  over  it  HoUandaise,  Bechamel, 
Caper,  or  Vinaigrette  Sauce,  and  serve  very 
hot. 


42  Dow  to  COOfl  X^CQCiBblCB 

ASPARAGUS  A  LA  PRANgAISE 

Clean  and  trim  the  stalks,  discarding  the 
tough  ends.  Boil  in  salted  water  for  twenty 
minutes,  drain,  and  chop  fine,  allowing  one  small 
onion  to  each  bunch.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  mix  with  two  or  three  beaten  egg  yolks, 
cook  slowly  until  hot  and  serve  on  buttered 
toast. 

ASPARAGUS  A  LA  PRIBOURG 

Boil  in  salted  water  and  drain  large  white 
asparagus.  Arrange  in  a  baking-dish  in  layers, 
with  freshly  grated  cheese,  cover  with  melted 
butter,  heat  thoroughly,  and  serve. 

ASPARAGUS  A  LA  MOUSSELINE 

Lay  cooked  and  drained  asparagus  on  thin 
slices  of  toast.  Beat  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  to  a  paste  and  add,  one  at  a  time,  the 
beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon- juice  and  salt  and  paprika 
to  season.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  the  sauce 
is  thick,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
in  small  bits.  Beat  in  one-fourth  cupful  of 
thick  cream  and  serve  when  thoroughly  hot. 

ASPARAGUS   TIPS  A  LA  PHILADELPHIA 

Cut  two-inch  lengths  from  the  head  end  of 
asparagus  and  cut  into  small  bits.     Put  into  a 


yotti2«fiis>e  Wai^  to  Coofi  Hdpatadud  43 

saucepan  with  cold  salted  water  to  cover,  bring 
to  the  boil,  cook  for  ten  minutes,  and  drain. 
Reheat  in  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  flour,  add 
a  scant  cupful  of  boiling  water,  and  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  When  hot,  add  the  beaten  yolks 
of  two  eggs  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  or 
cream.  Simmer  for  five  or  ten  minutes  and 
serve. 

ASPARAGUS  A  LA  POMPADOUR 

Cut  cleaned  asparagus  into  two-inch  lengths, 
boil  until  tender  in  salted  water  and  drain. 
Bring  to  the  boil  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  season.  When  boiling  hot  take  from  the  fire, 
add  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  pour  over 
the  asparagus  and  serve. 

ASPARAGUS  A  LA  SEELY 

Boil  the  tender  p^-rts  of  asparagus  in  salted 
water  in  which  the  tougher  asparagus  was  boiled, 
and  arrange  on  separate  plates.  Sprinkle  with 
salt,  pour  over  melted  butter,  lay  the  asparagus 
on  the  toast,  remove  the  strings,  season  with  salt 
and  melted  butter,  and  serve. 

ASPARAGUS  A  LA  TYSON 

Boil  the  asparagus  in  salted  water,  drain, 
cut  the  strings,  and  arrange  on  buttered  toast. 
Cook  together  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter 


44  Dov  to  cooiK  Vegetables 

and  flour,  add  a  cupful  of  the  water  in  which 
the  asparagus  was  boiled,  and  cook  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  Season  with  salt,  red  and 
black  pepper,  pour  over  the  asparagus,  and 
serve. 

ASPARAGUS  X  LA  TARTARE 

Cool  cooked  asparagus  on  ice  and  serve 
very  cold  with  Mayonnaise  or  Tartar  Sauce. 

ASPARAGUS  X  LA  VINAIGRETTE— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Asparagus.  Drain  and  serve  cold  with 
Vinaigrette  Sauce. 

ASPARAGUS  X  LA  VINAIGRETTE— II 

Mix  six  tablespoonfuls  of  olive-oil,  two  of 
vinegar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  French  mustard, 
salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar. 
Bring  to  the  boil  and  pour  boiling  hot  over  boiled 
and  drained  asparagus.  Cover,  cool,  chill  on 
ice,  and  serve  vezy  cold. 


NINETY-FIVE  WAYS  TO  COOK 

BEANS 

BOILED  STRING-BEANS— I 

Cut  off  the  ends,  remove  the  strings,  and  cut 
into  two  or  three  pieces.  Wash  in  cold  water, 
drain,  and  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water. 
Drain,  and  serve  with  melted  butter.  A  bit  of 
bacon  or  ham,  for  flavor,  may  be  boiled  with  the 
beans. 

BOILED  STRING-BEANS— II 

String  and  wash  the  beans,  cut  into  half-inch 
pieces,  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling 
water  to  cover,  using  a  level  teaspoonful  of 
soda  in  the  water  for  every  two  quarts  of  beans. 
Drain,  cpver  with  fresh  boiling  water,  and  cook 
until  tender,  seasoning  with  salt  toward  the 
last.  Drain,  season  with  butter  and  pepper,  and 
moisten  with  cream. 

STRING-BEANS  SAUt6 

String  the  beans  and  parboil  in  salted  water. 
Drain,  fry  in  butter,  season  with  salt  and  minced 

45 


46  f>ovp  to  Cook  Ve0etabCe6 

parlsey,  and  serve.     Dredge  with  flour  before 
frying  if  desired. 

STEAMED  STRING-BEANS 

String  and  cut  into  thin  match-like  shreds. 
Rinse  in  cold  water  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper  and 
salt  to  season,  and  barely  enough  hot  water  to 
keep  from  burning.  Cover  closely  and  cook  for 
forty  minutes.  Do  not  uncover,  but  shake  the 
saucepan  occasionally.  They  may  be  cooked 
in  a  steamer  and  the  sauce  omitted. 

CANNED  STRING-BEANS 

Drain  and  rinse  a  can  of  string  beans  and  heat 
thoroughly  without  liquid.  Add  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
season,  and  lemon- juice  or  vinegar  to  taste. 
Serve  very  hot. 

STRING-BEANS  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I,  drain,  and  reheat  in  a 
Brown  Sauce.  Lima  beans  may  be  serVed  in  the 
same  way. 

STRING-BEANS  WITH  BACON 

Cut  three  thin  slices  of  bacon  into  small  bits 
and  fry  brown  with  a  little  grated  onion.  Add 
the  boiled  and  drained  beans.  Reheat  and 
serve. 


Wnctq^givc  Waw  to  aoofi  JSeana     47 

STRING-BEANS  WITH  CREAM— I 

String  the  beans  and  boil  until  tender  in  as 
little  water  as  possible.  Without  draining,  add 
half  a  cupful  of  cream,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  pepper  and  salt  to  season. 

STRING-BEANS  WITH  CREAM— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  with  half  a  cupful  of  cream  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter.  Heat  thoroughly, 
and  add  gradually  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 
When  smooth  and  thick,  pour  over  the  beans, 
keep  hot  for  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

STRING-BEANS  WITH  GRAVY 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I.  Drain  and  cool  thor- 
oughly. Chop  fine  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  an 
onion,  and  fry  brown  in  butter,  seasoning  to  taste 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Moisten  with  stock  or 
gravy  from  roast  beef,  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes, 
then  add  the  beans  and  reheat.  Take  from 
the  fire,  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  stock,  and  keep 
warm  over  boiling  water  until  ready  to  serve. 

STRING-BEANS  WITH  PARSLEY 

String  the  beans  and  cook  until  tender  in 
melted   butter.     Sprinkle   thickly  with   minced 


48  t)ow  to  dooft  V)edetable0 

parsley,  keep  warm   for  twenty  minutes,  and 
serve. 

STRING-BEANS  WITH  SOUR  SAUCE 

Remove  the  strings  from  a  quart  of  beans,  cut 
in  pieces,  boil  until  tender,  and  drain.  Add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  blended  with  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  flour,  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Simmer  for  five  minutes, 
stir  in  a  well-beaten  egg,  and  serve  immediately. 

STRING-BEANS  WITH  TOMATOES— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I,  changing  the  salted 
water  for  fresh  when  the  beans  are  half  done. 
Add  butter,  diced  potatoes,  sliced  tomatoes,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Moisten  with  suffi- 
cient gravy  made  of  soup  stock  thickened  with 
flour  browned  in  butter. 

STRING-BEANS  WITH  TOMATOES— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I.  Drain,  reduce  the  cook- 
ing liquid  to  half  a  cupful,  and  add  to  it  one  cupful 
of  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  sugar,  reheat  the  beans  in  the 
sauce,  and  thicken  with  butter  and  flour  cooked 
together. 

STRING-BEANS  EN  SALADE 

Prepare    according    to    directions    given    for 


Wnct^p'fivc  Win^  to  cooft  JSeand     49 

Boiled  String- Beans — I,  changing  the  water 
once  and  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
after  changing.  Drain  and  pour  over  a  French 
dressing  to  which  a  little  chopped  onion  has  been 
added.     Serve  hot.     The  onion  may  be  omitted. 

BUTTERED  STRING-BEANS 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
String-Beans  en  Salade,  omitting  the  French 
dressing.  Season  with  pepper  and  serve  with 
plenty  of  melted  butter. 

STRING-BEANS  A  L'ALLEMANDE 

String  the  beans,  cut  into  thin  strips,  and  cover 
with  boiling  water.  Cook  for  twenty  minutes, 
drain,  cover  with  fresh  boiling  water,  and  add 
half  a  teaspoonf ul  of  salt  and  a  stalk  of  mint  for 
each  quart  of  beans.  Cook  slowly  for  half  an 
hour,  drain,  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt, 
and  serve  very  hot. 

STRING-BEANS  X  L'ANGLAISE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I.  Pour  over  a  sauce  made 
of  melted  butter  and  minced  parsley  and  serve 
very  hot  with  a  border  of  buttered  toast  points. 
Tomato  or  Poulette  Sauce  may  be  used  also, 
with  a  little  melted  butter. 

STRING-BEANS  X  L'AM^RICAINE 

Prepare    according    to    directions    given    for 


50  f)ow  to  (toofi  lt>e0etabled 

string-Beans  k  la  Cr^me,  adding  grated  nutmeg 
to  the  seasoning.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  lemon-juice  and  minced  parsley 
to  taste.     Reheat  and  serve. 

STRING-BEANS  A  LA  BABETTE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I.  Drain  and  add  a 
chopped  onion  fried  in  butter,  and  enough  soup 
stock  to  moisten  thoroughly.  Thicken  with 
butter  browned  in  flour,  and  serve  very  hot. 
Cream  may  be  used  instead  of  stock,  and  diced 
cooked  potatoes  may  be  mixed  with  the  beans. 

SOUR  BEANS  X  LA  BABETTE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I.  Drain,  brown  in  but- 
ter, dredge  with  flour,  season  with  salt,  brown 
sugar,  cinnamon,  and  vinegar.  Simmer  slowly 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes. 

STRING-BEANS  X  LA  BRETONNE— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I.  Cut  two  small  onions 
into  thin  slices,  fry  golden  brown  in  butter,  dredge 
with  flour,  and  add  a  little  white  stock.  Cook 
until  thick,  stirring  constantly,  and  seasoning 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  the  cooked  beans 
to  the-  sauce  with  a  crushed  bean  of  garlic; 
cook   for   ten   minutes,   sprinkle   with   minced 


Wnct^^ftvc  Wa^  to  Cook  JSeatid     51 

parsley,  and  serve.     The  garlic  and  parsley  may 
be  omitted  and  one  chopped  onion  used. 

STRING-BEANS  A  LA  BRETONNE— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I,  using  a  quart  of  beans. 
Drain  and  reheat  with  a  tablespoonful  each  of 
butter  and  chopped  onion  and  brown  slightly. 
Season  with  minced  parsley,  pepper,  and  salt, 
add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  one  cupful  of  white 
stock  or  hot  milk.     Serve  immediately. 

STRING-BEANS  A  LA  CR^JME 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I,  and  serve  with  Cream 
Sauce.  Lima  beans  may  be  served  the  same 
way. 

STRING-BEANS  X  LA  CAMBRIDGE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I.  Drain,  season  to  taste, 
and  add  enough  well-seasoned  beef  stock  to 
moisten.  Mix  with  shredded  green  pepper  fried 
in  butter. 

STRING-BEANS  A  LA  DRESDEN 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I.  Melt  half  a  cupful  of 
sugar  in  a  frying-pan,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  mix  thoroughly,  add  half  a  cupful  of  vine- 
gar, one  cupful  of  the  water  in  which  the  beans 


52  Iboy^  to  Cook  HOcgetBblcB 

were  cooked,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
When  the  sauce  is  thick  and  smooth,  heat  the 
beans  in  it  and  serve. 

STRING-BEANS  A  LA  FRANgAISE— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I.  Drain,  moisten  with 
stock,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  lemon- 
juice,  add  plenty  of  melted  butter,  and  serve 
very  hot. 

STRING-BEANS  A  LA  FRANgAISE— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I,  drain  and  cool.  Fry  a 
chopped  onion  golden  brown  in  butter,  add  a 
cupful  of  Espagnole  Sauce,  a  little  stock,  salt  and 
pepper  to  season,  and  the  beans.  Heat  thor- 
oughly, season  with  butter,  lemon- juice,  and 
minced  parsley  and  serve. 

STRING-BEANS  X  LA  JERSEY 

String  and  split  a  quart  of  beans  and  boil  until 
tender,  using  as  little  water  as  possible.  Add  a 
cupful  of  cream,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Bring  to  the  boil, 
and  serve. 

STRING-BEANS  A  LA  JULIENNE 

Remove   the   strings,   cut   into   thin   match- 
like strips,  and  soak  for  an  hour  in  cold  water. 
Melt  two  tablespoonf uls  of  butter,  add  a  teaspoon- 


Wnct^^fivc  WiwsB  to  Cooft  J9ean0     53 

ful  each  of  salt  and  minced  onion,  a  dash  of 
pepper,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Drain  the 
beans,  mix  thoroughly,  cover  tightly,  and  steam 
from  one  to  two  hours.  Add  a  little  more  butter 
when  serving. 

STEWED  STRING-BEANS  A  LA  LYONS 

Wash,  string,  and  split  the  beans,  cook  until 
tender  in  stock  with  a  little  bacon,  and  thicken 
the  liquid  with  flour  browned  in  butter. 

STRING-BEANS  A  LA  LYONNAISE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I.  Chop  an  onion  fine, 
fry  in  butter,  add  the  drained  beans,  and  reheat, 
adding  more  butter,  and  seasoning  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  minced  parsley.  Grated  nutmeg 
and  lemon-juice  may  be  added. 

STRING-BEANS  A  LA  MANHATTAN 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I.  Drain,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  and  plenty  of  melted 
butter.  Moisten  with  Velout6  Sauce,  add  a  dash 
of  lemon- juice,  and  serve. 

STRING-BEANS  X  LA  MAITRE  D'HOTEL 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I.  Pour  over  a  Maltre 
d'H6tel  Sauce.  Reheat  and  serve.  Lima  beans 
may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 


54  Dow  to  CoofK  t^egetable? 

STRING-BEANS  A  LA  1>0ULETTE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I,  and  reheat  in  a  Poulette 
Sauce  with  a  little  minced  parsley. 

STRING-BEANS  A  LA  PROVENgALE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I  and  drain.  Slice  an 
onion,  fry  golden  brown  in  oil  with  minced 
parsley,  thyme,  chives,  and  a  bay-leaf.  Remove 
the  bay-leaf,  add  a  little  vinegar,  pour  over  the 
beans,  reheat,  and  serve.  The  juice  of  a  lemon 
may  be  used  instead  of  vinegar. 

STRING-BEANS  A  LA  SYRACUSE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  String-Beans — I,  and  reheat  in  a  sauce 
made  of  stock  thickened  with  flour  cooked  in 
butter.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  an  egg  well 
beaten  with  a  little  cream,  and  season  with 
lemon-juice  if  desired. 

BOILED  LIMA  BEANS 

Wash  in  cold  water  and  boil  in  salted  water 
until  tender.  If  dried  beans  are  used,  they  must 
be  soaked  overnight.  Drain,  mix  with  melted 
butter,  season  to  taste,  and  serve.  Cream, 
lemon- juice,  or  stock  may  be  added. 


WncVit* five  WUtiftB  to  Ooolt  3cwte     55 

STEWED  LIMA  BEANS 

Cover  a  pint  of  lima  beans  with  a  quart  of 
boiling  water  and  cook  for  thirty  minutes.  Drain 
off  half  the  water,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
salt  pork  and  a  little  grated  onion  and  minced 
parsley.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  cupful  of  hot 
milk  and  stew  until  the  beans  are  tender.  Thick- 
en with  flour  cooked  in  butter  and  rubbed  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  milk. 

LIMA  BEANS  SAUT^ 

Parboil  in  salted  water  for  ten  minutes.  Drain , 
rinse  in  cold  water»  and  reheat,  with  butter,  salt, 
pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  season.  Moisten 
with  cream,  sprinkle  with  minced  parsley,  and 
serve.  The  nutmeg  may  be  omitted  and  lemon- 
juice  used  instead  of  cream. 

LIMA  BEANS  WITH  ONIONS 

Soak  a  pint  of  dried  beans  over  night,  drain 
and  boil  until  tender  in  fresh  water  to  cover. 
Drain  and  keep  warm.  Parboil  and  chop  three 
small  onions,  fry  in  butter,  and  reheat  the  beans 
with  the  onions.  Moisten  with  brown  gravy 
or  thickened  stock. 

LIMA  BEANS  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Lima  Beans  and  reheat  in  a  well-seasoned 
Brown  Sauce. 


56  Dow  to  dooli  it^egetableB 

LIMA  BEANS  WITH  TOMATOES 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Lima  Beans,  cooking  a  tomato  or  two 
with  the  beans.  Do  not  use  cream  if  tomato  is 
added. 

PURINE  OF  LIMA  BEANS 

Soak  a  quart  of  dried  lima  beans  over  night, 
drain,  and  cook  until  soft  in  boiling  salted  water. 
Press  through  a  sieve  and  season  with  butter, 
powdered  sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  moistening 
with  milk  if  too  thick.  Serve  very  hot  with  a 
garnish  of  toast  points. 

LIMA  BEAN  PATTIES 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Lima  Beans.  Press  through  a  fine  sieve, 
measure  the  pulp,  and  allow  to  each  cupful  the 
yolk  of  an  egg,  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion.  Shape 
into  small  flat  cakes,  dip  into  the  beaten  white  of 
the  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

LIMA  BEAN  S0UFFL1& 

Press  boiled  lima  beans  through  a  fine  sieve, 
season  to  taste,  and  to  each  cupful  add  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs.  Beat  until  light,  then  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  ten 
minutes. 


VUnetc«>yfve  TRnai^s  to  cooft  JSeans     57 

FLAGEOLETS 

The  French  beans  are  either  dried  or  canned. 
Cook  quickly  in  boiling  salted  water,  changing 
the  water  once.  After  the  water  is  changed 
reduce  the  heat  and  cook  slowly  until  tender. 
Drain,  season  with  butter  and  pepper  and  add 
lemon-juice,  minced  parsley,  or  grated  onion,  if 
desired. 

LIMA  BEANS  A  L'ALLEMANDE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Lima  Beans,  changing  the  water  once, 
and  adding  with  the  fresh  water  a  sprig  of  mint 
and  a  pinch  of  soda.  When  tender,  drain  and 
reheat  in  Cream  Sauce,  seasoning  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

LIMA  BEANS  A  LA  BECHAMEL 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Lima  Beans,  drain,  and  serve  with 
Bechamel  Sauce. 

LIMA  BEANS  A  L'ESPAGNOLE 

Soak  a  quart  of  dried  lima  beans  overnight 
in  cold  water.  Drain  and  cook  until  tender  in 
salted  water  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a 
bunch  of  parsley,  a  sliced  carrot,  and  an  onion 
stuck  with  three  cloves,  Drain  and  remove  the 
carrot,  onion,  and  parsley.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  minced  parsley,  add  four  tablespoon- 


58  Dow  to  oooft  vceeubicB 

fuls  of  butter  and  enough  Espagnole  Sauce  to 
moisten.     Heat  thoroughly  and  serve. 

LIMA  BEANS  A  LA  JERSEY 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Lima  Beans.  Drain,  cover  with  chopped 
cooked  ham,  pour  over  a  Parsley  Sauce,  and 
serve. 

LIMA  BEANS  X  LA  PHILADELPHIA 

Prepare  a  pint  of  beans  according  to  directions 
given  for  Boiled  Lima  Beans  and  reheat  in 
Cream  Sauce,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
Uttle  grated  onion.  Take  from  the  fire  and 
add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  a  little 
cream.     Serve  very  hot. 

LIMA  BEANS  X  LA  POULETTE 

Boil  a  quart  of  young  beans  quickly  until  nearly 
done.  Reheat  with  a  little  sugar,  a  cupful  of 
stock  or  cream,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  pinch  of 
sweet  herbs  if  desired.  Cook  slowly  until  half 
the  liquid  is  absorbed.  Take  from  the  fire,  add 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  smooth  with  half  a 
cupful  of  cream,  and  serve  very  hot. 

LIMA  BEANS  AU  VELOUT:^ 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled   Lima   Beans,   drain,   season  with   salt. 


WncVu^ffvc  Waw  to  Cooft  JSeans     59 

pepper,  butter,  and  lemon- jviice,  and  add  enough 
Velout^  Sauce  to  moisten. 

BOILED  BLACK  BEANS 

Soak  the  beans  in  cold  water  for  three  hours, 
rinse  thoroughly  and  boil  for  three  hours,  or  more 
if  necessary.  Fry  three  thin  slices  of  bacon  and 
add  to  it  a  little  stock.  Season  with  Chutney, 
mushroom  catsup,  and  anchovy  essence;  Re- 
heat the  drained  beans  in  the  sauce. 

RED  BEANS  A  LA  PROVENCE 

Soak  a  pint  of  red  beans  overnight,  drain,  and 
cook  until  tender  in  stock  to  cover  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  chopped  onion,  a  clove,  and 
a  little  thyme  and  minced  parsley.  When  the 
liquid  is  nearly  evaporated  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  add  half  a  cupful  of  red  wine,  reheat  and 
serve. 

PRIJOLES  MEXICANA 

Pick  over  and  wash  one  pound  of  small  red 
Mexican  beans,  cover  with  cold  water,  bring  to 
the  boil,  and  add  a  pinch  of  soda.  Cook  for  five 
minutes,  drain  and  rinse,  then  cover  with  cold 
water  and  cook  slowly  until  soft.  Melt  two 
or  three  tablespoonfuls  each  of  drippings  and 
butter.  When  sizzling  hot  drop  in  two  or  three 
cloves  of  garlic,  peeled  and  crushed.  Keep 
stirring  until  well  browned,  then  add  two  or  three 
chopped  green  peppers  and  a  large  onion,  sliced. 


6o  iboxo  to  cooft  lt)e0etable0 

Stir  until  cooked,  then  add  a  few  tablespoonfuls 
of  the  boiled  beans,  mashing  a  few  of  them  to 
form  a  thickening  gravy.  Add  the  rest  of  the 
beans  with  a  portion  of  the  liquor  in  which 
they  were  cooked,  and  three  or  four  tomatoes, 
peeled  and  cut  up.  Simmer  for  an  hour.  When 
ready  to  serve,  grate  one-half  pound  of  Mexican 
or  Parmesan  cheese  and  stir  into  the  beans. 
Serve  very  hot. 

STEWED  KIDNEY  BEANS 

Soak  a  cupful  of  beans  overnight  in  cold  water. 
Drain,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  a  chopped 
onion  and  a  carrot,  three  or  four  slices  of  bacon, 
and  a  pinch  of  soda.  Simmer  until  the  beans 
are  tender,  drain,  season  with  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper,  and  serve  hot. 

FRICASSEE  OP  BEANS 

Boil  kidney  beans  in  water  to  cover  until  the 
skins  will  slip  off.  If  the  dried  beans  are  used 
they  must  be  soaked  overnight.  Drain  and 
reheat  in  veal  stock  to  cover,  seasoning  with 
pepper,  salt,  grated  nutmeg,  minced  parsley, 
and  thyme.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  a 
wineglassful  of  Sherry,  bring  to  the  boil,  take 
from  the  fire,  and  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten 
with  half  a  cupful  of  cream  and  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon.  Heat  thoroughly  but  do  not  boil, 
and  ^rve  at  once. 


Wncx^ttfivc  Wavfi  to  (Xooli  J8ean0     6i 

BUTTERED  KIDNEY  BEANS 

Cook  until  tender  in  boiling  water.  Dried 
beans  must  be  soaked  overnight.  Drain,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  plenty  of  butter  or  cream 
or  both.  Tomato  Sauce  may  be  used  instead 
of  the  cream. 

KIDNEY  BEANS  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE— I 

Soak  a  cupful  of  kidney  beans  overnight. 
Drain,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  slowly 
until  the  beans  are  tender.  Add  a  cupful  of 
canned  tomatoes  to  the  drained  beans  and  reheat 
in  Brown  Sauce. 

KIDNEY  BEANS  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE—II 

Put  two  cupf  uls  of  soaked  beans  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  half  a  pound  of  soup-meat  chopped 
fine.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  for  thirty 
minutes,  then  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  cook 
thirty  minutes  longer.  Cook  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  in  butter,  and  add  a  cupful  of  stewed  and 
strained  tomatoes.  Cook  until  thick,  stirring 
constantly,  and  seasoning  with  paprika,  grated 
onion,  kitchen  bouquet,  and  a  bit  of  minced  garlic. 
Strain  the  sauce  over  the  drained  beans,  heat 
thoroughly,  and  serve. 

KIDNEY  BEANS  A  LA  CHRISTIANA 

Cook  a  quart  of  beans  in  salted  water  until 
tender.     Drain,  sweeten  with  syrup,  and  thicken 


62  Dow  to  Oooft  Degetabled 

with  a  little  corn-starch  rubbed  smooth  in  cold 
water.  Cook  until  the  liquid  is  creamy  and 
serve  very  hot. 

KIDNEY  BEANS  A  LA  CREOLE 

Soak  overnight  a  quart  of  kidney  beans  and 
cook  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water.  Drain, 
put  a  layer  into  a  baking-dish  with  half  a  pound 
of  bacon  in  one  piece  which  has  been  boiled 
until  tender  and  skinned,  and  a  chopped  onion. 
Cover  with  beans,  season  with  salt  and  red  pepper, 
fill  the  baking-dish  with  cold  water,  and  bake 
slowly  until  the  liquid  is  nearly  absorbed. 

KIDNEY  BEANS  X  UESPAGNOLE 

Soak  a  cupful  of  kidney  beans  overnight  in 
cold  water.  Chop  fine  half  a  pound  of  lean  beef 
and  brown  in  a  little  butter.  Add  four  cupfuls 
of  cold  water  and  bring  to  the  boil.  Tie  the 
drained  beans  loosely  in  mosquito  netting  or 
cheese-cloth,  having  seasoned  them  with  sugar 
and  pepper.  Scald  and  peel  a  sweet  chili  pep- 
per, chop  fine,  and  add  it  to  the  mixture.  Cover 
and  cook  slowly  until  tender,  remove  the  beans 
season  with  salt  and  butter,  strain  the  sauce 
over,  and  serve. 

KIDNEY  BEANS  A  LA  LYONNAISE 

Soak  the  dried  beans  overnight,  drain  and 
cook  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water.  Drain 
and  dry  in  the  oven.     Fry  a  chopped  onion  in 


KMnet^^^fivc  Wnw  to  Cooli  JSeans     63 

butter  or  drippings,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  reheat  the  beans  with  the  onion.  Serve 
very  hot. 

BOILED  PORK  AND  BEANS 

Wash  and  score  deeply  a  pound  of  fat  salt 
pork.  Boil  for  half  an  hour.  At  the  same  time 
boil  until  soft  in  water  to  cover  a  quart  of  dried 
beans  that  have  been  soaked  overnight.  When 
the  beans  are  soft,  drain  and  put  a  layer  into  the 
bean-pot.  Lay  the  pork  upon  the  beans,  cover 
it  with  beans,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  bake 
brown,  adding  boiling  water  as  needed. 

BOILED  BEANS  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Soak  two  cupfuls  of  beans  overnight  and  boil 
until  tender  in  water  to  cover,  adding  salt  during 
the  latter  part  of  the  cooking.  Cook  a  chopped 
onion  in  two  cupfuls  of  tomato  juice,  thicken 
with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together,  add  the 
drained  beans,  reheat,  season  to  taste,  and 
serve. 

BAKED  PORK  AND  BEANS 

Cover  a  quart  of  dry  beans  with  cold  water  and 
bring  to  the  boil.  After  they  have  boiled  for  half 
an  hour  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus.  Let 
boil  up  once,  then  drain  off  the  water,  cover 
with  fresh  boiling  water  and  cook  until  the  beans 
are  tender.  Wash  and  score  deeply  a  pound  of 
salt  pork.      Put  the  beans  into  a  laxge  dripping- 


64  1)0VC  to  Cook  XOCQCtnblCB 

pan  with  the  pork  in  the  centre  and  water  to 
cover  and  bake  slowly  until  brown. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS 

Wash  and  pick  over  a  quart  of  navy  beans. 
Soak  overnight  in  cold  water  to  cover.  In  the 
morning  drain,  cover  with  fresh  water,  and  heat 
slowly,  keeping  the  water  below  the  boiling 
point  until  the  skins  will  burst  when  a  spoonful  is 
gently  breathed  upon.  Drain  the  beans.  Scald 
and  scrape  the  rind  of  half  a  pound  of  fat  salt 
pork,  cut  off  one  slice,  and  put  into  the  bottom  of 
the  bean-pot.  Fill  the  pot  with  the  beans  and 
bury  the  pork  in  it,  scoring  the  rind  deeply. 
Mix  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  with  one  tablespoonf ul 
of  molasses  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  add 
a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  pour  over  the  beans  and 
add  more  boiling  water  if  necessary  to  fill  the  pot. 
Cover  the  bean-pot  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for 
six  or  eight  hours,  adding  boiling  water  as  needed. 
During  the  last  hour  of  cooking,  remove  the 
lid  so  that  the  top  will  be  brown.  A  teaspoonful 
of  mustard  may  be  added  with  the  other  season- 
ing. Serve  in  the  pot.  This  is  the  gentiine 
Boston  recipe.  A  sliced  onion  put  in  with  the 
pork  is  considered  by  many  to  be  an  improve- 
ment. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS  WITH  TOMATO 

SAUCE 

Prepare    according    to    directions    given    for 


Wnct^t^fivc  tnUS0  to  Cook  JSeand     65 

Boston  Baked  Beans.  Chop  an  onion  fine  and 
cook  it  in  a  can  of  tomatoes  for  half  an  hour. 
Two  hours  before  the  beans  are  done,  strain  the 
tomato  into  the  bean  pot,  adding  a  little  at  a 
time. 

BEANS  BAKED  IN  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Soak  the  beans  overnight  in  cold  water,  drain 
and  cook  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water. 
Drain,  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and  cover 
with  a  Tomato  Sauce  made  of  stewed  and 
strained  tomatoes  thickened  with  butter  and 
flour  cooked  together.  Mix  thoroughly,  season 
highly  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  bake  closely 
covered  for  two  hours. 

BAKED  BEANS  X  LA  CONCORD 

Soak  the  beans  overnight,  boil  until  tender,  and 
drain.  Parboil  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  and 
chop  it  fine.  Have  ready  a  cupful  of  Tomato 
Sauce  seasoned  with  grated  onion,  butter,  salt, 
and  a  good  deal  of  sugar.  Put  a  layer  of  minced 
pork  into  the  bean-pot,  then  a  layer  of  beans,  then 
Tomato  Sauce,  and  rex>eat  until  the  dish  is  full, 
having  Tomato  Sauce  on  top.  Moisten  with 
hot  water,  cover  and  bake  for  two  hours,  adding 
more  hot  water  if  required.     Uncover  and  brown. 

BAKED  BEANS  X  LA  PROVIDENCE 

Prepare    according    to    directions    given    fot 
5 


66  l3ow  to  Cooft  vcgctnblce 

Boston  Baked  Beans  changing  the  water  in 
which  they  are  boiled,  an  hour  before  they  are 
done  and  adding  an  onion  and  a  bay-leaf  to  the 
first  water.  When  they  are  tender,  drain,  remove 
the  onion  and  the  bay-leaf,  and  put  into  a  shallow 
basin  with  half  a  pound  of  gashed  and  parboiled 
salt  i)ork  in  the  middle.  Season  with  pepi^er,  dot 
with  butter,  and  moisten  with  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled, 
adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses  to  it.  An 
hour  before  they  are  done  pour  in  a  cupful  of 
cream  brought  to  the  boil  with  a  pinch  of  soda. 

BAKED    BEANS    X    LA    RHODE     ISLAND 

Soak  a  quart  of  dried  beans  in  cold  water  all 
night.  In  the  morning  drain  and  soak  for 
two  hours  in  warm  water.  Drain  and  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  cold  water  to  cover.  Bring  slowly 
to  the  boil,  cook  until  tender,  drain,  and  put  into 
a  bean-pot.  Parboil  and  gash  deeply  half  a 
pound  of  salt  pork  and  bury  it  in  the  beans. 
Add  a  pinch  of  dry  mustard  and  half  a  cupful  of 
molasses  to  two  cupf uls  of  the  water  in  which  the 
beans  were  cooked.  Mix  thoroughly,  pour  over 
the  beans,  cover  and  bake  for  six  hoturs  in  a  slow 
oven. 

SOUTHERN  BAKED  BEANS 

Soak  two  cupfuls  of  dried  beans  overnight  in 
cold  water.  Drain  and  boil  until  tender  in 
fresh  water.     Put  into  the  bean-pot  with  two 


WncVft^fi^  Waisd  to  Coofi  JSeand     67 

tablespoonfuls  of  molasses  or  brown  sugar 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Put  a  few  thin 
slices  of  bacon  on  the  top,  bake  brown,  and  serve 
either  hot  or  cold.  Tomato  Sauce  or  catsup 
is  ustially  served  with  Southern  Baked  Beans. 

VIRGINIA  BAKED  BEANS 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boston  Baked  Beans  and  put  into  the  bean-pot 
with  a  few  pieces  of  bacon.  Season  with  pepper, 
put  a  lump  of  butter  on  top,  and  bake,  using  soup 
stock  for  liquid. 

BAKED  BEANS  A  LA  WASHINGTON 

Boil  the  soaked  beans  until  soft,  drain,  mash 
through  a  colander  and  season  with  salt,  sugar, 
mustard,  butter,  and  a  little  cream.  Spread  evenly 
in  a  large  shallow  pan,  bake  brown  on  the  grate 
of  the  oven,  and  serve  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

FRIED  BEANS 

Soak  overnight,  boil  until  tender,  drain, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  and  fry  in  butter  with  a 
chopped  onion.  Sprinkle  with  minced  parsley 
and  pepper,  drain  in  a  colander,  and  serve. 

STEWED  BEANS— I 

Soak  overnight,  drain,  boil  for  an  hour,  drain 
and  cook  slowly  for  two  hours  in  stock  to  cover. 
For  the  last  hour  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water 


6S  "fcow  to  Cooft  iDe^etabled 

to  prevent  scorching.  All  the  stock  should  be 
absorbed,  yet  the  beans  should  not  be  dry. 
Make  a  sauce  of  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
teaspoonful  each  of  mustard  and  molasses,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  onion-juice,  and  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon  mixed  with  half  a  cupful  of  hot  water. 
Cook  ten  minutes  longer  and  serve. 

STEWED  BEANS— II 

Soak  a  cupful  of  beans  in  cold  water  over- 
night. Cook  slowly  until  tender  in  boiling  water 
to  cover,  adding  a  pinch  of  baking  soda.  Drain, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  season.  Simmer  for  fifteen 
minutes,  adding  enough  stock  to  moisten. 
Thicken  slightly  with  butter  and  flour  cooked 
together  and  serve  very  hot. 

STEWED  BEANS— III 

Wash  a  quart  of  beans  and  soak  overnight. 
Drain  and  cook  in  fresh  boiling  water  with  half 
a  pound  of  salt  pork  cut  in  thin  slices.  Cook 
for  four  or  five  hours,  season  to  taste,  and  serve. 

STEWED  BEANS— IV 

Prepare  the  beans  according  to  directions  given 
for  Boiled  Pork  and  Beans.  Remove  the  rind 
from  half  a  dozen  thin  slices  of  bacon  and  cut  into 
small  pieces.  Cook  for  five  minutes  in  boiling 
water,  drain,  fry  light  brown,  dredge  with  flour, 
add  a  cupful  of  Claret,  and  cook  until  thick, 


WncV^ftvc  Tmai^  to  dooft  Mcnne    69 

stirring  constantly.  Add  a  little  water  if  the 
sauce  is  too  thick,  season  with  pepper,  simmer 
for  twenty  minutes,  and  reheat  the  beans  in  the 
sauce  with  a  little  butter. 

BEANS  X  LA  BRETONNE 

Soak  two  cupfuls  of  dried  beans  overnight 
and  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water.  Drain, 
press  through  a  sieve,  and  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon- juice  or 
tarragon  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and 
enough  stock  to  moisten.     Serve  with  roast  lamb . 

BEANS  X  LA  LORRAINE 

Soak  a  quart  of  white  beans  overnight,  drain, 
cover  with  cold  salted  water,  bring  to  the  boil, 
and  add  an  onion  stuck  with  two  cloves,  a  quar- 
tered carrot,  and  a  bouquet  of  sweet  herbs.  Add 
three  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced,  cover  and  cook 
until  thoroughly  done.  Fry  a  chopped  onion  in 
butter,  drain  the  beans,  take  out  the  whole 
onion,  the  carrots,  and  herbs,  and  reheat  with 
the  fried  onion  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
butter.     Heat  thoroughly  and  serve. 

BEANS  A  LA  WALDORF 

Prepare  the  beans  according  to  directions 
given  for  Boiled  Pork  and  Beans.  Reheat  with 
a  few  mashed  boiled  onions,  seasoning  with 
butter,  grated  nutmeg,  salt,  and  pepper. 


70  Dow  to  COOiK  VCQCUlblCS 

BEANS  AND  BARLEY 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boston  Baked  Beans,  using  half  a  cupful  of 
beans.  After  the  beans  have  boiled  for  an  hour, 
add  half  a  cupful  of  well-washed  pearl  barley 
and  cook  until  both  are  done,  adding  boiling 
water  as  needed.  Drain,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  add  two  quarts  of  chicken  stock,  and 
bake  slowly  in  the  oven  until  the  liquid  has  been 
absorbed. 

BEAN  SOUFFLlfi 

Soak  two  cupfuls  of  dried  beans  overnight  and 
boil  until  soft  in  water  to  cover,  changing  the 
water  once.  Drain,  press  through  a  colander, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  add  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  hot  milk  and  beat  until  very 
light.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs,  turn  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and  bake 
for  twenty  minutes.  The  milk  may  be  omitted 
and  two  whole  eggs  used. 

BEAN  CROQUETTES 

Boil  two  cupfuls  of  soaked  beans  until  soft. 
Drain,  press  through  a  colander,  season  with 
salt  and  red  pepper  and  add  one  tablespoonful 
each  of  molasses,  butter,  and  vinegar.  Mix 
thoroughly,  cool,  shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in 
egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  serve 
with  Tomato  Sauce, 


IMnct^mfivc  Wnw  to  Cooli  JSeana     71 

BEAN  PATTIES 

Boil  a  pint  of  navy  beans  until  soft,  drain, 
mash,  and  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 
Moisten  with  milk,  shape  into  small  flat  cakes, 
dip  in  flour,  then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  flour, 
and  fry  in  bacon  fat.  Serve  the  bacon  as  a 
garnish. 

POLENTA—I 

Soak  two  cupfuls  of  dried  beans  overnight. 
Drain,  cover  with  cold  salted  water,  bring  to  the 
boil,  and  cook  tintil  soft.  Put  through  a  vege- 
table press  or  colander,  add  a  tablespoonftd  of 
butter  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  red 
and  black  pepper  to  season,  a  little  dry  mustard 
and  lastly  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Serve 
very  hot.  Cold  Polenta  can  be  cut  into  slices, 
or  moulded  into  croquettes,  dipped  in  egg  and 
crumbs  and  fried  in  deep  fat. 

POLENTA— II 

Boil  two  cupfuls  of  beans  tmtil  soft,  drain,  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  a  teaspoonful 
each  of  salt,  mustard,  and  olive-oil,  pepx>er  to 
season  and  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Cook 
for  ten  nunutes,  and  serve  very  hot. 

BUTTERED  BEANS 

Soak  two  cupfuls  of  beans  overnight,  drain, 
cover  with   cold  water,  and  boil   slowly   until 


73  Dow  to  Cook  }0CQet9bleB 

done.     Drain,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter. 

PURfeE  OF  BEANS 

Soak  two  cupfuls  of  dried  beans  overnight. 
Drain  and  boil  for  an  hour  in  water  to  cover. 
Drain,  cover  with  fresh  boiling  water,  add  a 
pinch  of  soda,  half  a  pound  of  ham,  half  an  onion, 
half  a  carrot,  and  half  a  bay-leaf.  Boil  until  the 
beans  mash  easily,  remove  the  ham,  press  through 
a  colander,  and  reheat,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper, 
butter,  and  cream. 

CREAMED  BEANS 

Soak  a  pint  of  beans  overnight  in  cold  water. 
Drain  and  boil  soft  in  salted  water.  Press 
through  a  sieve  and  mix  with  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  Cream  Sauce  to  make  very  soft.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  turn 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  brown. 


TWENTY  WAYS  TO  COOK  BEETS 

BOILED  BEETS 

Select  small  smooth  beets  and  clean  without 
cutting  or  scraping.  Boil  for  an  hour  or  two 
and  cool.  Remove  the  skins,  cut  into  slices  or 
quarters,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold.  Or, 
reheat  in  stock  and  melted  butter,  seasoning  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar.  The  stock  may  be 
omitted  if  desired  and  chopped  onion  and  parsley 
added  to  the  seasoning. 

STEWED  BEETS— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Beets  and  cut  into  thin  slices.  Cook 
together  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour, 
add  a  cupful  of  water  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  heat  the  beets  in 
the  sauce,  and  serve  with  small  button  onions 
parboiled  and  fried  brown  in  butter  and  sugar. 

STEWED  BEETS— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Beets.     When  peeled  and  sliced,  reheat, 

73 


74  1>ow  to  COOiK  VCQCtnblCB 

with  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar,  to  season,  a  boiled 
onion  chopped  fine,  and  a  little  minced  parsley. 
Add  a  little  flour  cooked  in  butter  and  simmer 
slowly  for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  frequently. 

BUTTERED  BEETS 

Peel  young  beets,  cut  into  dice  and  cook  slowly 
until  tender  in  water  to  cover.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  season, 
and  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch 
rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water  and  stir 
while  boiling  up. 

CREAMED  BEETS 

Cook  small  white  beets  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  tender,  rinse  in  cold  water,  rub  off  the 
skin,  and  reheat  in  Cream  Sauce;  or  cut  boiled 
beets  into  dice  and  mix  with  the  sauce,  adding 
more  butter. 

BAKED  BEETS 

Wash  without  peeling  and  bake  slowly  until 
done.  Remove  the  skin,  cut  into  slices,  and 
season  with  melted  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Serve  very  hot.  A  little  vinegar  or  sugar  may 
be  added  to  the  seasoning;  or,  serve  whole  with 
seasoned  melted  butter. 

BEETS  WITH  SOUR  SAUCE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Beets.     Blend  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 


XTvpentis  Wnw  to  Cooft  JSeete         75 

com-starch  with  a  little  cold  water,  mix  with  a 
scant  cupful  of  vinegar,  bring  to  the  boil,  and 
cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  a 
tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  sugar  to  the 
sauce,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over  the 
beets,  and  serve  very  hot  in  a  covered  dish.  Less 
vinegar  may  be  used,  adding  water  as  needed, 
and  the  sugar  omitted. 

PICKLED  BEETS— I 

Wash  small  beets  but  do  not  cut.  Cover  with 
boiling  water  and  boil  until  tender.  Drain, 
rinse  in  cold  water,  peel,  cut  into  slices,  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  salt,  and  pepper,  cover  with  vinegar 
and  let  stand  for  several  hours  before  using. 
Serve  cold. 

PICKLED  BEETS— II 

Boil  two  cupfuls  of  vinegar  with  a  few  pepper- 
corns and  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  bit  of 
ginger  root.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  two  cupfuls 
more  of  vinegar,  and  cool.  Two  tablespoonfuls 
of  horseradish  and  sugar  to  taste  may  be  added. 
Prepare  the  beets  according  to  directions  given 
for  Boiled  Beets  and  when  peeled  and  sliced 
cover  with  the  spiced  vinegar.  Let  stand  for 
several  hours  before  using. 

BEETS  WITH  PINK  SAUCE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Beets.     Peel  and  cut  into  dice,  saving 


76  f)OW  to  aooFl  VCQCttiblCB 

the  juice.  Make  a  Drawn-Butter  Sauce,  season- 
ing with  lemon-juice,  and  reheat  the  beets  in  the 
sauce  until  colored. 

BEETS  WITH  CREAM 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Beets.  When  sliced,  reheat  with  enough 
stock  to  moisten.  Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
with  a  cupful  of  cream  and  pour  slowly  into  the 
saucepan.     Serve  as  soon  as  the  sauce  is  thick. 

BEETS  SAUT^ 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Beets.  When  peeled  and  sliced,  fry  in 
butter,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  sugar.  Serve 
hot. 

BEET  GREENS 

Use  young  beets  no  larger  than  a  walnut.  Do 
not  cut  off  the  tops.  Wash  thoroughly  in  several 
waters,  using  salt  water  first.  Cook  quickly 
in  salted  water  until  tender,  drain,  cut  off  the 
tops  and  skin  the  beets  by  plunging  into  cold 
water  and  rubbing  off  the  skins.  Drain  the  greens, 
cut  them  up,  mix  with  the  beets,  and  season 
with  salt,  i)epper,  melted  butter,  and  vinegar 
or  lemon- juice.  Garnish  with  sliced  hard-boiled 
eggs. 

BEETS  A  LA  BABETTE 
Wash  the  beets  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water 


Svi^entis  tniace  to  (took  iketd         n 

until  tender,  leaving  on  a  portion  of  the  stalk. 
Peel,  slice,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  brown  sugar, 
and  carraway  seed.  Pour  over  vinegar  to  taste 
and  let  stand  for  several  hours  before  using.  For 
a  relish  beets  may  be  chopped  fine  and  mixed  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  grated  horseradish. 

BEETS  A  LA  BECHAMEL 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Beets  and  reheat  in  Bechamel  Sauce. 

BEETS  A  LA  CHARTREUSE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Beets.  Cut  a  very  thin  slice  of  onion 
for  every  two  slices  of  beets  and  sandwich  a 
slice  of  onion  between  each  two,  pressing  together 
gently.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar, 
dip  in  batter  and  fry  slowly  in  deep  fat. 

BEETS  X  LA  ST.  LAURENCE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Beets.  Fry  a  chopped  onion  in  butter, 
dredge  with  flour,  add  two  cupfuls  of  stock,  and 
cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the 
beets,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Bring  to  the  boil 
and  serve. 

BEETS  A  LA  MAITRE  D'HOTEL 

Prepare    according    to    directions    given    for 


78  t>ow  to  dooft  VcaetBblcs 

Boiled  Beets.     Peel,  slice,  and  serve  with  Maltre 
d'H6tel  Sauce. 

BEET  GREENS  A  L'ALLEMANDE 

Cut  half  a  pound  of  cooked  ham  into  dice  and 
chop  a  small  onion.  Fry  in  olive-oil  and  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  hot  vinegar.  Wash  and  pick 
over  the  greens  in  salted  water.  Drain,  chop, 
drain  again,  and  reheat  with  the  ham.  Serve 
hot  with  a  border  of  poached  eggs. 

BEET  GREENS  X  L'ANGLAISE 

Wash  thoroughly  and  pick  apart  tender  young 
beet  tops.  Cook  until  tender  in  a  covered  sauce- 
pan, using  only  enough  melted  butter  to  keep 
from  burning.  When  tender  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  melted  butter,  and  garnish  with  sliced 
hard-boiled  eggs. 


EIGHT  WAYS  TO   COOK  BRUSSELS 

SPROUTS 

BOILED  BRUSSELS  SPROUTS— I 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  sprouts  and  boil  until 
tender  in  water  to  which  a  little  salt  and  baking 
soda  have  been  added.  Drain,  and  reheat  in 
naelted  butter  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  but 
do  not  fry.     Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  X  LA  CR^ME 

Trim  off  the  loose  leaves  and  soak  for  half 
an  hoiir  in  cold  water.  Boil  in  water  to  cover, 
adding  a  little  salt  towards  the  last.  Drain,  sea- 
son with  pepper,  and  pour  over  a  cupful  of  cream 
in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  or  corn-starch 
has  been  made  smooth.  Simmer  for  five  or  ten 
minutes  and  serve;  or,  reheat  in  Cream  Sauce, 
or  Bechamel  Sauce,  or  in  melted  butter  and  serve 
with  M^re  d'H6tel  Sauce. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  SAUTjfi— I 

Boil  the  cleaned  sprouts  twenty  minutes  in 
salted  water,  drain,  fry  in  butter,  season  with 
salt,  minced  parsley,  and  pepper,  and  serve. 
Grated  nutmeg  may  be  added. 

79 


8o  'bow  to  Cooh  \OcgctMca 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  SAUT^II 

Clean  and  trim  one  quart  of  sprouts  and  soak 
in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour,  then  cook  for 
half  an  hour  in  salted  boiling  water.  Drain,  add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful 
each  of  sugar,  flour,  and  salt,  sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  shake  the  pan  over  the  fire  until  they  are 
slightly  colored.     Serve  at  once. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  WITH  CREAM 

Prepare  the  sprouts  according  to  directions 
given  for  Boiled  Brussels  Sprouts.  Drain,  and 
reheat  with  a  little  Velout6  Sauce,  seasoning  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Heat  thoroughly, 
add  a  little  cream,  bring  slowly  to  the  boil,  and 
serve. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  AU  GRATIN 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Brussels  Sprouts  k  la  Cr^me.  Put  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with  crumbs, 
dot  with  butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  X  LA  PARMESAN 

Boil  the  sprouts  tmtil  tender  in  salted  water  and 
drain.  Arrange  in  a  baking-dish  with  alternate 
layers  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  melted  butter,  and  serve  very 
hot. 


JSidbt  tRSaisd  to  Cooh  JBtiiddcto  Sptouta    Si 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  A  LA  CHIPOLATA 

Wash  and  trim  a  quart  of  Brussels  sprouts. 
Cook  for  five  minutes  in  boiling  water,  drain, 
rinse  in  cold  water,  drain,  and  cook  in  boiling  water 
to  cover,  with  a  pound  of  chipolata  sausages. 
Cook  for  twelve  minutes  and  drain  very  dry. 
Serve  the  sprouts  in  a  vegetable  dish  with  a  little 
melted  butter.  Broil  the  sausages  for  two 
minutes  on  each  side  and  lay  over  the  sprouts. 


ONE    HUNDRED    AND    FIVE    WAYS 
TO  COOK  CABBAGE 

BOILED  CABBAGE— I 

Clean,  trim,  and  quarter  a  small  head  of  cabbage. 
Remove  the  tough  stalk  and  soak  for  an  hour  in 
cold  water.  Drain,  and  cook  uncovered  in 
boiling  salted  water  with  a  pinch  of  soda. 
Drain,  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and 
serve.  A  little  cream  or  Drawn-Butter  Sauce 
may  be  added. 

BOILED  CABBAGE— II 

Clean  and  quarter  a  firm  cabbage  and  cover 
with  boiling  salted  water  to  which  has  been 
added  a  pinch  of  baking  soda.  Cook  for  fifteen 
minutes,  drain,  and  cover  with  boiling  salted 
water.  Cook  until  tender  and  drain,  pressing  out 
all  the  liquid.  Chop  fine  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  tomato  catsup.  Add  a  cupful  of 
stock,  heat  thoroughly,  add  a  tablespoohful  of 
butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice  and 
serve. 

BOILED  CABBAGE— III 

Clean  and  trim  a  head  of  white  cabbage,  cut 
into  quarters,  and  soak  in  cold  water  for  an  hour. 

S2 


t05  Maw  to  Oooii  Cabbage  83 

Drain,  cover  with  boiling  water,  let  stand  for 
fifteen  minutes  and  drain  again,  pressing  out  all 
the  water.  Cover  with  boiling  salted  water,  add 
a  chili  pepper,  cover,  and  boil  until  done.  Drain 
and  reheat  in  butter  or  drippings.  Dredge  with 
flour,  add  a  cupful  of  soup  stock,  and  cook  slowly 
until  the  sauce  is  smooth  and  thick.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  serve  very  hot. 

BOILED  CABBAGE— IV 

Fry  a  chopped  onion  brown  in  butter,  add  a 
quart  of  chopped  raw  cabbage,  cover,  and  cook 
for  ten  minutes.  Pour  over  boiling  water  to 
cover,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  cook, 
covered,  imtil  tender.  Sprinkle  with  flour, 
boil  a  little  longer,  and  serve  very  hot. 

BOILED  CABBAGE— V 

Boil  for  an  hour,  skim,  drain,  and  chop  fine. 
Melt  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  cook 
in  it  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  half  a  cupful  of  vinegar. 
Cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the 
cabbage,  reheat,  and  serve. 

FRIED  CABBAGE— I 

Chop  cold  boiled  cabbage  and  drain  thoroughly. 
Mix  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and  pepper  and 
salt  to  season.  Heat  in  a  buttered  frying-pan 
and   let  stand  long  enough  to  brown  slightly 


84  f)ow  to  Coofi  Vegetablea 

on  the  under  side.  Two  well-beaten  eggs  may 
be  added  to  the  cabbage  before  heating;  or, 
chop  fine  and  fry  brown  in  butter,  seasoning 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar. 

FRIED  CABBAGE— II 

Slice  cabbage  thin  or  chop  it  fine.  Put  it  into 
a  frying-pan  with  a  Uttle  salt  pork  gravy  and 
enough  water  to  moisten.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  cover  closely  and  cook  slowly  until  done, 
adding  more  water  as  required.  Add  a  little 
vinegar  just  before  serving. 

STEWED  CABBAGE— I 

Boil  a  small  cabbage  whole.  Drain,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over  a  cupful  of  boil- 
ing cream,  and  serve  very  hot. 

STEWED  CABBAGE— II 

Chop  a  large  cabbage  fine  and  cook  until  tender 
in  salted  water  to  cover,  with  six  slices  of  salt 
pork  and  a  little  butter.  Mix  together  one  cup- 
ful each  of  Indian  meal  and  milk,  add  a  beaten 
egg  and  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  flour  sifted, 
with  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  baking- 
powder.  After  the  cabbage  has  cooked  for  an 
hour,  drop  the  dumplings  from  a  spoon  upon  the 
boiling  cabbage,  cover,  and  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes  longer. 


105  TRnai^  to  aood  Cabbage  85 

STEWED  CABBAGE— III 

Clean  and  slice  a  large  head  of  cabbage.  Fry  a 
chopped  onion  in  butter,  add  the  cabbage,  half 
a  cupful  of  vinegar,  two  cupfuls  of  stock,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  season.  Cover  and  simmer  for  two 
hours.  Thicken  the  cooking  liquid  with  flour 
cooked  in  butter,  heat  thoroughly,  and  serve. 

STEWED  CABBAGE— IV 

Shred  the  cabbage  very  fine  and  parboil  for 
ten  minutes  in  salted  water  with  a  small  piece  of 
red  pepper  from  which  the  seeds  have  been 
removed.  Drain  very  dry,  add  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  vinegar,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
three  tablespoonf uls  of  stock.  Cover  tightly  and 
simmer  until  tender.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per and  serve. 

SWEDISH  STEWED  CABBAGE 

Shred  the  cabbage  and  soak  for  half  an  hour  in 
cold  water.  Drain  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  in 
boiling  salted  water  to  which  a  pinch  of  soda 
has  been  added.  Change  the  water  for  fresh 
boiling  water  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  longer. 
Drain,  and  reheat  with  a  cupful  of  hot  milk,  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  nutmeg  to  season.  Cook  slowly  until  soft 
and  nearly  dry.  Serve  with  a  border  of  boiled 
sausages  or  balls  of  fried  calf's  brains. 


86  Dow  to  Cooli  Degetablea 

STEWED  CABBAGE  AND  CELERY 

Shred  equal  quantities  of  celery  and  cabbage 
and  cook  slowly  until  tender  in  salted  water 
to  cover.  Drain  thoroughly,  pressing  out  all  the 
water  possible.  Reheat  in  Cream  Sauce,  and 
serve. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE— I 

Soak  a  savoy  cabbage  in  salted  water  for  an 
hour,  then  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  let 
stand  until  the  leaves  are  soft;  or  parboil  a  solid 
head  of  cabbage,  drain  and  scoop  out  the  centre. 
Chop  very  fine  one-quarter  pound  each  of  raw 
lean  veal  and  salt  pork.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
grated  nutmeg,  and  minced  parsley,  and  add  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Stuff  the  centre 
of  the  cabbage  with  the  forcemeat,  or  arrange 
the  stuffing  in  layers  between  the  leaves.  Tie 
in  netting,  putting  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork  around 
the  cabbage.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  stock 
to  cover  and  add  a  wineglassful  of  sherry. 
Cover  and  cook  slowly  until  the  cabbage  is  done. 
Drain,  thicken  the  cooking  liquid  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  browned  in  butter,  pour  over 
the  cabbage  and  serve.  Equal  parts  of  fried 
mushrooms  and  boiled  rice  may  be  used  for 
the  stuffing,  adding  beaten  egg  to  bind. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE— II 

Clean  and  trim  a  solid  head  of  cabbage  and 
soak  it  for  half  an  hour  in  cold  water  slightly 


105  TIClas0  to  Qo6k  Cabbage  87 

acidulated;  or  parboil  for  fifteen  minutes  in 
salted  water.  Drain,  cut  off  the  stalk,  and 
scoop  out  the  heart.  Fill  with  a  stuffing  made 
of  satisage  meat  mixed  with  chopped  cooked 
chestnuts.  Cover  the  opening  with  cabbage 
leaves,  tie  on  firmly,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with 
six  slices  of  bacon,  or  half  a  cupful  of  butter. 
Cook  slowly  in  stock  to  cover  tmtil  tender.  Take 
up  the  cabbage  on  a  hot  platter,  unbind,  strain 
the  gravy  over  it,  and  serve. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE— III 

Soak  a  savoy  cabbage  in  boiling  water  for 
forty-five  minutes,  changing  the  water  once. 
Drain  ^d  shake  tmtil  dry.  Wash  thoroughly 
half  a  cupful  of  rice  and  mix  it  with  half  a  pound 
of  sausage  meat.  Add  a  tablespoonful  each  of 
grated  onion  and  minced  parsley.  Mix  thor- 
oughly. Open  the  cabbage  carefully  and  spread 
each  layer  of  the  leaves  with  the  stuffing.  Fold 
over,  tie  firmly  in  cheese-cloth,  cover  with  boiling 
salted  water,  and  cook  for  three  hours.  Drain, 
pour  over  a  Cream  Sauce  and  serve  very  hot. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE— IV 

Pry  ^wo  chopped  onions  in  butter  and  add 
the  centre  scooped  out  from  a  parboiled  cabbage. 
Add  a  potmd  of  sausage  meat  or  fresh  pork 
chopped  fine,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
minced  parsley.  Add  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
fill  the  centre,  cover  with  some  of  the  leaves  that 


88  l)ow  to  Cooft  It)e0etable0 

were  trimmed  off,  and  tie  firmly  with  string. 
Line  a  deep  baking-dish  with  thin  slices  of  bacon, 
put  in  the  cabbage,  and  one  cupful  of  stock. 
Cook  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  basting  frequently. 
Take  up  the  cabbage  on  a  serving-dish,  remove 
the  strings  and  loose  leaves.  Sprinkle  with 
crumbs,  and  brown  in  the  oven,  basting  with  the 
gravy. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE— V 

Parboil  a  well-trinuned  cabbage  in  salted 
water  for  ten  minutes,  drain,  cover  with  cold 
water,  dry,  and  cut  out  the  centre.  Make  a 
stuffing  of  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sausage  meat, 
half  a  pound  of  leaf  lard,  chopped  fine,  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  and  salt,  paprika, 
and  grated  onion  to  season  highly.  Put  part 
of  the  stuffing  in  the  centre  of  the  cabbage 
and  the  rest  among  the  leaves.  Tie  the  cabbage 
in  its  original  shape,  covering  with  thin  slices  of 
salt  pork.  Cook  until  tender  in  stock  to 
cover,  with  a  bunch  of  parsley,  an  onion,  two 
cloves,  and  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg  to 
season.  Drain  the  cabbage,  strain  and  skim 
the  cooking  liquid,  thicken  with  flour  browned 
in  butter,  and  pour  over  the  cabbage,  shaving 
first  removed  the  strings  and  pork.  Serve 
with  a  garnish  of  the  pork. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE— VI 
Trim,  parboil,  and  remove  the  centre  from  a 


105  WLVSB  to  Go6k  Cabbage  89 

cabbage.  StufiE  with  highly  seasoned  sausage 
meat  mixed  with  beaten  egg.  Simmer  slowly 
until  tender  in  stock  to  cover,  adding  an  onion 
stuck  with  two  or  three  cloves,  a  slice  of  salt 
pork,  a  bay-leaf,  and  a  small  carrot.  Take  up  the 
cabbage  carefully,  strain  the  cooking  liquid 
over  it,  and  serve. 

STUFFED  CABBAGR—VII 

Trim  off  the  outer  leaves  and  soak  in  boiling 
water  for  ten  minutes,  then  drain  and  plunge 
into  cold  water.  Remove  the  stalk  and  fill  the 
cavity  with  minced  cooked  sausage  meat,  ham, 
or  pork,  seasoned  with  grated  onion,  pepper^ 
salt,  and  thyme  mixed  with  bread-crumbs. 
Bind  with  strips  of  muslin  and  cook  slowly 
until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water  or  in  the  water 
in  which  ham  or  corned  beef  has  been  boiled. 
Remove  the  binding  and  thicken  a  little  of  the 
strained  cooking  liquid  with  a  little  flour  cooked 
in  butter.  Add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 
bring  to  the  boil,  pour  over  the  cabbage,  and 
serve. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE— VIII 

Soak  a  cabbage  for  half  an  hour  in  cold  water 
and  parboil  in  salted  water  for  ten  minutes. 
Drain  and  cool.  Make  a  stuffing  of  one  cupful 
each  of  boiled  rice  and  chopped  cooked  chicken 
and  half  a  cupful  of  chopped  cooked  ham.  Mix 
thoroughly    and    season    to    taste.     Open    the 


90  1)dW  to  COOft  VCQCUblCB 

cabbage  carefully  and  spread  thin  layers  of  the 
stuffing  on  the  leaves.  Tie  firmly  in  mosquito 
netting  and  cook  until  tender  in  boiling  salted 
water  to  cover.  Drain,  remove  the  netting, 
pour  over  Cream  or  White  Sauce  and  serve. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE— IX 

Cover  a  savoy  cabbage  with  boiling  water  and 
let  stand  until  the  leaves  are  wilted.  Make 
a  stuffing  of  one  cupful  each  of  boiled  rice  and 
chopped  cooked  meat,  seasoning  With  salt,  pepper, 
grated  onion,  and  nutmeg.  Drain  the  cabbage 
and  put  layers  of  the  stuffing  between  the  leaves. 
Tie  firmly  in  cheese-cloth  and  cook  for  an  hour  in 
boiling  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  remove 
the  cloth,  cover  with  White  or  Cream  Sauce, 
sprinkle  with  minced  parsley,  and  serve. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE— X 

Boil  a  large  cabbage  until  nearly  tender  in 
salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  cool,  and  remove 
the  centre.  Prepare  a  stuffing  of  minced  cold 
meat,  seasoning  with  chopped  ham  or  bacon, 
grated  lemon-peel,  nutmeg,  and  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  suet 
and  a  raw  egg.  Fill  the  cabbage  with  the 
stufl&ng,  tie  into  shape  with  string,  and  bake 
for  twenty  minutes,  basting  with  butter  or 
drippings.  It  should  not  be  allowed  to 
brown. 


105  TiQlas0  to  Cooii  Cabbage  91 

STUFFED  CABBAGE— XI 

Clean  and  trim  a  cabbage.  Cut  a  slice  from 
the  top  and  take  out  the  hard  centre.  Cook  the 
shell  carefully  for  ten  minutes  in  salted  water  to 
cover.  Chop  fine  the  portion  which  has  been 
removed  and  cook  until  tender  in  salted  water 
to  cover.  Chop  fine  one  quarter  pound  of  cooked 
pork  or  ham  and  mix  with  enough  of  the  chopped 
cabbage  to  fill  the  opening.  Season  highly  with 
salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  and  ginger.  Fill  the  cab- 
bage, cover  with  loose  leaves,  tie  into  shape 
with  string,  and  bake,  basting  with  stock  or  hot 
water  and  melted  butter. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE— XII 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Stuffed  Cabbage  XL  Soak  two  or  three  slices 
of  bread  in  cold  water  and  squeeze  dry.  Mix 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  the  chopped  cooked 
cabbage  and  fry  in  butter  or  drippings.  Take 
from  the  fire,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  ginger. 
Add  two  well-beaten  eggs  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Fill  the  cabbage,  cover  with  loose  leaves,  tie 
into  shape  with  string  and  bake,  basting  with 
stock  or  melted  butter  and  hot  water.  A  cupful 
of  choi>ped  cooked  chestnuts  may  be  added. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE— XIII 

Cut  out  the  stalk  end  of  a  cabbage,  leaving  the 
hollow  shell.     Chop  two  pounds  of  raw  beef  with 


93  1)ow  to  doofi  1t)edetable0 

a  slice  of  bacon  and  onion,  add  one  cupful  of 
bread-crumbs  soaked  and  squeezed  dry,  one  egg 
well  beaten,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  mace  to  season. 
Shape  into  small  balls  and  fill  the  cabbage, 
alternating  with  strips  of  sweet  pepper,  and  steam 
until  done.     Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE— XIV 

Chop  fine  cold  cooked  chicken  or  veal,  season 
highly,  and  add  enough  beaten  yolk  of  egg  to  bind. 
Roll  into  small  balls.  Clean  and  trim  a  large 
cabbage,  cut  out  the  centre,  fill  the  shell  with  the 
balls,  cover  with  loose  leaves,  tie  in  a  cloth  and 
boil,  covered,  in  salted  water  for  two  hours  or 
more.  Drain,  remove  strings  and  loose  leaves, 
and  serve  with  plenty  of  melted  butter. 

CABBAGE  STUFFED  WITH  CHESTNUTS 

Select  a  loose  head  of  cabbage,  cover  vnth 
boiling  water,  and  let  stand  for  half  an  hour. 
Remove  the  skins  and  shells  from  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  chestnuts  and  chop  fine.  Add  to 
each  quart  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  onion- juice,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  season.  Drain  the  cabbage  and  open 
it  carefully  to  the  centre.  Put  a  little  of  the 
chestnut  mixture  in  the  centre,  fold  over  two 
or  three  of  the  leaves,  cover  with  the  mixture, 
fold  over  the  next  layer  of  leaves,  and  so  on 
until  the  entire  cabbage  is  stuffed.  Tie  firmly 
in  cheese-cloth,  cover  with  salted  boiling  water. 


t05  tlQlaicd  to  Cook  Cabbage  93 

and    cook    for    an    hour.     Drain,    remove    the 
cloth,  cover  with  Cream  Sauce,  and  serve. 

CREAMED  CABBAGE—I 

Chop  or  shred  a  cabbage  fine  and  cover  with 
boiling  salted  water  to  which  a  pinch  of  soda 
has  been  added.  Boil  until  tender,  drain,  press 
out  the  liquid,  and  reheat  in  a  Cream  Sauce. 
Add  a  little  grated  cheese  if  desired. 

CREAMED  CABBAGE— II 

Trim  and  quarter  a  small  cabbage,  soak  it  in 
cold  water  for  an  hour,  drain,  and  press  out  the 
liquid.  Remove  the  hard  portions  and  chop  the 
remainder  very  fine.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with 
boiling  water  to  cover,  and  boil  for  twenty 
minutes.  Drain,  turn  into  a  hot  vegetable 
dish,  pour  over  a  Cream  Sauce,  and  serve. 

ESCALLOPED  CABBAGE— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Creamed. Cabbage.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and 
bake  brown,  or  put  grated  cheese  between  layers 
of  creamed  cabbage,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs 
and  cheese,  and  bake. 

ESCALLOPED  CABBAGE— II 

Boil  a  cabbage  in  two  waters,  drain,  and  chop 
fine.  Rub  a  baking-dish  with  a  cut  clove  of 
garlic,  and  butter  it.     Put  in  a  layer  of  cabbage. 


94  Dow  to  Cooh  It^egetablcd 

sprinkle  with  grated  onion  and  lemon-juice,  and 
cover  with  a  layer  of  Cream  Sauce  which  has  been 
seasoned  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  grated  nutmeg. 
Sprinkle  grated  cheese  on  the  sauce  and  repeat 
until  the  dish  is  full,  having  sauce  and  cheese 
on  top.  Cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter, 
sprinkle  with  paprika,  and  bake,  covered,  for 
half  an  hour.  Remove  the  cover,  brown,  and 
serve  in  the  baking-dish. 

ESCALLOPED  CABBAGE— III 

Boil  a  head  of  cabbage  imtil  tender,  changing 
the  water  once,  drain,  cool,  and  chop  fine.  Put 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish  a  layer  of  buttered 
crumbs,  seasoning  with  pepper,  salt,  and  grated 
onion.  Cover  with  a  layer  of  the  cabbage,  and 
season  with  salt,  lemon-juice,  and  melted  butter. 
Repeat  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  crumbs  and 
grated  cheese  on  top.  Boil  a  cupful  of  milk  with 
a  pinch  of  soda  and  pour  over  the  cabbage,  or 
use  a  cupful  of  stock.     Bake  brown. 

BAKED  CABBAGE— I 

Clean  and  quarter  a  small  cabbage  and  boil 
tmtil  tender  in  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain, 
cool,  chop,  and  season  with  pepper  and  butter. 
Add  a  well-beaten  egg  and  enough  stock  to 
moisten.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
brown,  adding  more  stock  if  required.  Serve 
in  the  baking-dish. 


t05  Wi«SB  to  Oooh  Cabbage  95 

BAKED  CABBAGE— II 

Boil  a  cabbage  until  tender,  changing  the 
water  once.  Drain,  cut  it  fine,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Butter  a  baking-dish,  put  in 
a  layer  of  the  cabbage,  cover  with  Cream  or 
Tomato  Sauce,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  and  repeat 
until  the  dish  is  full,  having  crumbs  on  top. 
Bake  for  half  an  hour. 

BAKED  CABBAGE— III 

Boil  a  cleaned  and  quartered  cabbage  in  salted 
water  until  tender.  Drain  and  chop,  pressing  out 
the  liquid.  Put  a  layer  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  season  with  pepper, 
and  dot  with  butter.  Have  crumbs  on  top. 
Pour  in  a  cupful  of  cream  or  rich  milk  and  bake 
until  nicely  brown. 

BAKED  CABBAGE— IV 

Boil  cabbage  until  tender,  changing  the  water 
twice.  Drain,  cool,  and  chop  fine.  Mix  together 
two  well-beaten  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  each 
of  melted  butter  and  cream,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
a  dash  of  paprika.  Mix  with  the  cabbage,  put 
it  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  until  brown. 
The  crumbs  may  be  omitted. 

BAKED  CABBAGE— V 

Trim  and  quarter  a  head  of  cabbage.  Boil 
until  tender  in  salted  water  to  cover.     Drain 


96  t>ow  to  (look  tt)e0etabte0 

thoroughly  and  put  into  a  baking-dish.  Pour 
over  a  cupful  of  cream  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  make 
a  hollow  in  the  centre  with  a  spoon  and  break 
a.n  egg  into  it.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the 
cabbage  is  brown  and  the  egg  is  set. 

HOT  SLAW—I 

Chop  half  a  cabbage  fine,  sprinkle  with  flour, 
pour  over  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and 
put  into  the  oven.  Beat  together  one  table- 
spoonful each  of  mustard  and  olive-oil,  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  one  egg  well  beaten 
with  three-fourths  cupful  of  cream.  Bring  to 
the  boil,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over 
the  hot  cabbage,  and  serve. 

HOT  SLAW— II 

Chop  fine  a  small  hard  cabbage.  Melt  half  a 
cupful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  put  in  the 
cabbage  in  layers,  sprinkling  each  layer  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  flour.  Add  enough  water  to 
keep  from  burning,  cover  and  cook  until  tender, 
stirring  frequently,  and  adding  more  water  as 
required.  When  tender,  add  half  a  cupful  of 
vinegar,  bring  to  the  boil,  and  serve. 

HOT  SLAW— III 

Bring  a  cupful  of  vinegar  to  the  boil,  add  a 
tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  sugar,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  and  salt  and  black 


105  Wiwsfi  to  Cooft  Cabbage  97 

pepper  to  season.  Pour  over  a  small  cabbage 
which  has  been  shredded  very  fine,  heat  thor- 
oughly, and  serve. 

HOT  SLAW— IV 

Boil  a  shredded  cabbage  until  tender  in  salted 
water  to  cover.  Drain  thoroughly,  pressing  out 
all  the  liquid.  Bring  to  the  boil  half  a  cupful 
of  vinegar  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne  to  season  highly. 
Pour  over  the  cabbage,  mix  thoroughly,  reheat, 
and  serve. 

HOT  SLAW— V 

Beat  together  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  one- 
fourth  cupful  of  cold  water.  Add  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
Cook  over  boiling  water,  adding  gradually  one- 
fourth  cupftil  of  hot  vinegar.  When  smooth  and 
thick  pour  over  shredded  cabbage,  reheat,  and 
serve.  > 

HOT  SLAW— VI 

Mix  together  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  each  of 
cream  and  vinegar,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
and  a  teaspoonful  each  of  mustard  and  celery 
seed.  Heat  thoroughly,  and  when  smooth  and 
thick,  heat  shredded  cabbage  in  the  sauce,  and 
serve. 


9S  l)ow  to  Cooft  tDegetabled 

COLD  SLAW— I 

Shred  a  white  cabbage  fine  and  soak  in  ice- 
water.  Make  a  dressing  of  the  yolks  of  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  one  egg  well  beaten,  half  a  cupful  of 
olive-oil,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  mustard, 
salt,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Drain  the  cabbage 
thoroughly,  mix  with  the  dressing,  and  serve 
very  cold. 

COLD  SLAW— II 

Mix  together  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and 
dry  mustard,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  egg 
slightly  beaten,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  and  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  cream. 
Cook  over  boiling  water,  adding  gradually 
one-fourth  cupful  of  vinegar  and  stirring  con- 
stantly. Strain  and  cool.  Soak  shredded  cabbage 
in  cold  water  until  crisp,  drain,  dry  thoroughly, 
mix  with  the  dressing,  and  serve  very  cold. 

COLD  SLAW— III 

Shred  the  cabbage  very  fine  on  a  cabbage 
cutter  and  mix  with  a  very  sour  mayonnaise 
to  which  a  few  capers  have  been  added. 

COLD  SLAW— IV 

Soak  a  quart  of  shredded  cabbage  in  cold 
water  for  an  hour.  Cook  a  tablespoonful  each 
of  chopped  onion  and  celery  in  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  vinegar  for  fifteen  minutes,   adding  a 


105  Tinias0  to  Cook  Qnbb$QC  99 

bit  of  bay-leaf  if  desired.  Thicken  half  a  cupful 
of  boiling  milk  with  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  com-starch 
rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Take 
from  the  fire,  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  strain  the  vinegar  into  the  sauce. 
Add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  broken  into  small 
bits,  and  cool.  Drain  the  cabbage  thoroughly, 
mix  with  the  dressing,  and  serve. 

COLD  SLAW— V 

Shred  a  small  cabbage,  cover  with  cold  water, 
and  soak  for  an  hour.  Beat  together  two  eggs 
and  half  a  cupful  of  sour  cream.  Add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  boiling  vinegar  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Cook  until  it  thickens,  take 
from  the  fire,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
mix  with  the  drained  cabbage,  cool,  and  serve. 

COLD  SLAW  A  LA  MAY  IRWIN 

Shred  a  cabbage  very  fine.  Beat  three  eggs 
very  light,  add  half  a  cupful  each  of  cream 
and  milk,  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter 
melted.  Bring  to  the  boil  foiu*  tablespoonf uls 
of  vinegar,  with  dry  mustard,  pepper,  and  salt 
to  season.  Add  the  egg  mixture  very  slowly, 
stirring  constantly,  and  pour  hot  over  the  cab- 
bage.    Serve  very  cold. 

CABBAGE  ROLLS— I 

Make  a  stuffing  of  one  cupful  each  of  boiled  rice 
an4  lentils,  a  chopped  onion,  and  half  a  cupful  of 


loo  f)ow  to  Cooft  1t)e0etal)Ie0 

chopped  nuts,  pecans  preferred.  Add  salt  and 
pepper  to  season.  Cover  a  savoy  cabbage  with 
boiling  water  and  let  stand  until  the  leaves  are 
soft.  Cut  out  the  heavy  mid-ribs  and  wrap 
bits  of  the  stuffing  in  large  soft  pieces  of  the 
leaves.  Pack  the  rolls  carefully  into  a  buttered 
saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  clove  of  garlic,  and  cook 
slowly  uncovered  for  thirty  minutes,  drain 
carefully,  and  strain  the  cooking  liquid.  Thicken 
one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  the  cooking  liquid 
with  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together.  Take  from  the  fire,  add 
the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  cook  over 
water  until  thick  and  smooth,  season  with  salt  and 
tarragon  vinegar,  strain  over  the  rolls,  and  serve. 

CABBAGE  ROLLS— II 

Parboil  the  white  leaves  of  a  large  cabbage, 
cool,  drain*  and  remove  the  large  ribs.  Make 
a  stuffing  of  equal  parts  of  sausage  meat  and 
boiled  rice,  seasoning  with  chopped  onion 
and  minced  parsley.  Roll  tablespoonfuls  of 
the  mixture  in  the  leaves  and  pack  closely 
in  a  saucepan.  Cover  with  well-seasoned  stock 
and  cook  slowly  for  an  hour.  Drain,  thicken 
the  cooking  liquid  with  flour  browned  in  butter, 
add  more  butter,  pour  over  the  rolls,  and  serve. 

CABBAGE  ROLLS— III 

Chop  fine  enough  cold  cooked  meat  to  make 
two  cupfuls,  add  a  chopped  onion,  and  pepper 


t05  Tmacd  to  dooft  CaWaoe        loz 

and  salt  to  season  highly.  Cover  a  large  head 
of  cabbage  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand  until 
the  leaves  are  wilted.  Drain,  remove  the  leaves, 
and  roll  tablespoonfuls  of  the  meat  mixture  in 
large  soft  pieces  of  the  leaves.  Pack  the  rolls 
closely  in  a  saucepan  and  squeeze  over  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  Cover  with  boiling  water 
and  cook  slowly  for  twenty  minutes.  Take  up 
the  rolls  and  thicken  the  cooking  liquid  with 
two  tablesix)onfuls  each  of  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  smooth  with  a  little 
cold  water,  and  heat  slowly  until  thick,  but  do 
not  boil.  Strain  the  sauce  over  the  rolls  and 
serve  immediately. 

CABBAGE  ROLLS— IV 

Mix  together  half  a  cupful  of  boiled  rice,  one 
pound  of  lean  raw  beef  chopped,  and  salt, 
pepper,  and  onion-juice  to  season  highly. 
Soak  eight  large  leaves  of  cabbage  for  a  few 
minutes  in  boiling  water.  Roll  a  portion 
of  the  meat  mixttire  in  each  leaf  and  tie 
with  twine.  Put  into  a  kettle  with  enough 
water  nearly  to  cover,  one  cupful  of  canned 
tomatoes,  a  chopped  onion,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  each  of  vinegar  and  sugar.  Sim- 
mer slowly  until  the  cabbage  leaves  are  tender. 
Skim  out,  remove  the  strings,  and  reheat  in 
the  sauce,  thickening  it  with  flour  browned 
in  butter. 


I03  l>ow  to  Cooft  VCQCtnblCB 

CABBAGE  AU  GRATIN 

Boil  a  head  of  cabbage  until  tender  in  salted 
water  to  cover,  drain,  and  chop  fine.  Put  in 
layers  in  a  buttered  baking-dish,  alternating 
with  White  Sauce  to  which  a  seasoning  of  lemon- 
juice  has  been  added.  Have  sauce  on  top. 
Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  grated  American 
cheese,  dot  with  butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 
The  cabbage  should  be  soaked  in  cold  salted 
water  for  an  hour  before  boiling,  or  omit  the 
lemon-juice  and  cheese  and  use  Cream  Sauce  to 
which  two  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs  have  been 
added. 

CABBAGE  AND  BACON—I 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  until  nearly 
cooked.  Put  two  or  three  slices  of  thin  bacon 
into  a  saucepan  and  lay  upon  it  a  cleaned  and 
quartered  cabbage.  Lay  the  pork  on  top  and 
cover  with  stock,  adding  grated  nutmeg,  minced 
parsley,  and  pepper  to  season.  Simmer  until  the 
cabbage  is  tender.  Take  up  on  a  hot  dish ,  putting 
the  salt  pork  and  bacon  on  top.  Thicken  the 
cooking  liquid  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  pour  over  the 
cabbage,  and  serve. 

CABBAGE  AND  BACON— II 

Boil  a  cleaned  and  quartered  cabbage  in  two 
waters y  adding  half  a  pound  of  sliced  bacon 


105  WinB  to  Cooft  Cabbage        103 

to  the  second  water.  Drain  thoroughly,  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar,  and  garnish 
with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

CABBAGE  WITH  OYSTERS 

Cut  in  two  a  small  cabbage.  Soak  in  cold 
water  for  an  hour,  drain,  and  cover  with  boiling 
water  to  which  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  pinch 
of  soda  have  been  added.  Boil  for  five  minutes, 
drain,  cover  with  fresh  boiling  water,  and  boil 
until  tender.  Drain,  arrange  on  a  platter, 
and  moisten  thoroughly  with  cream  or  melted 
butter.  Cover  with  broiled  oysters,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  curry  powder,  and  serve. 

CABBAGE  WITH  SAUSAGE 

Fry  six  sausages  crisp  and  brown.  Take  up 
the  sausage  and  reheat  cold  cooked  chopped 
cabbage  in  the  fat,  seasoning  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Take  up  on  a  hot  platter,  garnish  with 
the  sausages,  and  serve. 

CABBAGE  WITH  SOUR  CREAM 

Chop  fine  a  small  head  of  cabbage  and  cook 
in  water  enough  to  keep  from  burning,  sea- 
soning with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  together 
two  eggs,  one  half  cupful  each  of  sour  cream 
and  vinegar,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter.  Bring  to  the  boil,  pour  over  the  cab- 
bage, and  serve. 


I04  Dow  to  Cook  XOcgctnblce 

SMOTHERED  CABBAGE 

Shred  a  small  head  of  cabbage  fine  and  season 
with  salt  and  black  pepper.  Cook  in  a  covered 
saucepan  with  a  cupful  of  butter,  or  drippings, 
stirring  frequently.  Serve  very  hot.  Half  a 
cupful  of  milk  and  a  tablespoonf ul  of  butter  may 
be  added. 

CABBAGE  PUDDING— I 

Cut  the  cabbage  very  fine  and  put  into  a 
baking-dish  with  alternate  layers  of  bread- 
crumbs, seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 
Fill  the  pan  with  milk  and  bake  slowly  until 
done.     Serve  in  the  baking-dish. 

CABBAGE  PUDDING— II 

Boil  a  small  white  head  of  cabbage  until 
thoroughly  done,  adding  a  slice  or  two  of  bacon  if 
desired.  Drain,  chop  fine,  add  a  tablespoonf  ul 
of  butter,  three  eggs  beaten  smooth  with  a  cupful 
of  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  a  pinch  of 
mustard.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
until  firm. 

DUTCH  CABBAGE 

Shred  a  white  cabbage  and  cook  it  slowly  for 
four  or  five  hours  with  enough  water  to  keep 
from  burning.  Half  an  hour  before  serving 
time,  season  with  salt  and  black  pepper  and  add 


105  TRIlais0  to  Cooft  Cabbage        105 

a  cupftil  of  sour  cream.  Cook  slowly  until  the 
liquid  is  nearly  absorbed,  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar,  and  serve. 

SWISS  CABBAGE 

Clean  and  trim  a  small  cabbage,  remove  the 
centre  and  fill  with  sausage  meat,  spreading 
layers  of  the  meat  between  the  leaves.  Tie 
firmly  in  cheese-cloth  or  netting  and  boil  until 
the  cabbage  is  tender.  Drain,  remove  the  cloth, 
potir  over  a  little  hot  vinegar,  and  serve. 

SWEDISH  CREAMED  CABBAGE 

Cook  shredded  cabbage  for  fifteen  minutes  in 
boiling  water  to  cover.  Drain,  cover  with 
milk,  and  add  salt,  pepper,  and  mace  to  season. 
Cook  until  the  milk  has  boiled  away  so  that  it 
merely  moistens  the  cabbage.  Add  a  lump  of 
butter  and  serve. 

SWEET  AND  SOUR  CABBAGE 

Shred  fine  enough  cabbage  to  make  a  quart  and 
add  two  sour  apples  peeled  and  sliced.  Put 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  saucepan 
and  when  it  is  hissing  hot,  add  the  cabbage  and 
apples.  Pour  over  boiling  water  to  cover  and 
cook  until  tender.  Sprinkle  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,-  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar  and  two 
tablespoonfuls   of    vinegar.      If  red  cabbage  is 


io6  fbovo  to  Coofi  It)e0etable0 

used  soak  it  in  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour, 
changing  the  water  two  or  three  times. 

BUTTERED  CABBAGE 

Trim,  quarter,  and  core  a  small  cabbage. 
Parboil,  cool,  drain,  cut  up,  and  fry  in  butter, 
seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  a  pint 
of  stock,  and  cook  slowly  until  done.  Drain 
off  most  of  the  liquid,  moisten  with  Velout6 
Sauce,  and  serve. 

RAGOUT  OF  CABBAGE 

Boil  a  cabbage  in  salted  water  for  ten 
minutes.  Drain  and  chop.  Put  into  a  sauce- 
pan half  a  cupful  of  butter,  and  when  it  is 
melted  add  the  cabbage  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  season  and  one  and  one-third  cupfuls  of 
stock.  Cover  and  cook  slowly  for  two  hours. 
Remove  the  cover  and  cook  quickly  until  the 
liquid  is  nearly  all  absorbed.  Serve  very 
hot. 

STEAMED  CABBAGE 

Clean  and  trim  a  small  cabbage  and  shave  it 
very  fine  with  a  sharp  knife  or  patent  slicer.  Put 
into  a  saucepan  with  enough  water  to  keep  from 
burning.  Cover  closely  and  cook  until  tender, 
adding  a  very  little  water  occasionally.  Take 
from  the  fire,  add  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar  to 
season,  and  serve. 


105  TUlaise  to  Cooft  Qnbbnc        107 

MINCED  CABBAGE 

Drain  a  boiled  cabbage  and  chop  fine.  Reheat 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  of 
flour.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Stir  constantly  for  five 
minutes  and  serve  with  a  garnish  of  sliced  hard- 
boiled  eggs. 

CABBAGE  HEARTS  AND  PEAS 

Chop  fine  two  cabbage  hearts  and  cook  until 
tender  with  an  equal  quantity  of  shelled  peas, 
adding  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  mint.  Drain, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  serve. 

MOCK  CAULIFLOWER 

Boil  a  cleaned  and  quartered  cabbage  in 
salted  water  to  cover,  drain  and  cut  into  pieces. 
Reheat  in  Cream  Sauce  and  add  a  teaspoonful 
each  of  butter,  minced  parsley,  and  sugar. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg. 

CABBAGE  A  L' ALSACE 

Boil  a  cleaned  cabbage  in  two  waters,  drain, 
cool,  and  chop.  Reheat  with  a  cupful  of  stock 
and  salt  and  paprika  to  season.  Cook  until  nearly 
dry,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  serve. 

CABBAGE  X  L' ALLEMANDE— I 

Cook  two  quarts  of  chopped  cabbage  until  ten- 


io8  Dow  to  Oooft  tt>e0etaDle6 

der  in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain 
and  reheat  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Pour  over  half 
a  cupful  of  boiling  vinegar,  keep  hot  for  fifteen 
minutes,  and  serve. 

CABBAGE  A  L'ALLEMANDE— II 

Shred  a  cabbage  fine  and  cook  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  in  enough  salted  water  to  keep 
from  burning.  While  cooking  add  alternately, 
a  little  at  a  time,  half  a  cupful  each  of  sugar  and 
vinegar.  Cook  slowly  until  done,  stirring  fre- 
quently, and  color  brown  with  a  little  caramel 
or  kitchen  bouquet. 

CABBAGE  X  L'ALLEMANDE— III 

Shred  a  small  head  of  cabbage.  Brown 
slightly  in  olive-oil  or  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  add  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar  and  a  small  onion  chopped  fine.  Cover 
and  simmer  for  an  hour.  Serve  very  hot.  The 
onion  may  be  omitted.  Add  a  little  stock  or 
water  if  too  dry. 

CABBAGE  A  LA  BOURGEOISE 

Clean  and  cut  up  a  cabbage.  Fry  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  chopped  onion  in  butter,  add  the  cabbage, 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg. 
Cook  over  a  slow  fire,  turning  frequently  to  pre- 
vent burning. 


t05  Ma^  to  Cooft  Cabbage        109 

CABBAGE  X  LA  FLAMANDE— I 

Shave  fine  a  large  red  or  purple  cabbage. 
Cook  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling  water, 
drain,  and  chop  fine.  Reheat  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  a  chopped  onion,  salt  and  pepper 
to  season,  and  a  pinch  of  powdered  cloves. 
Cover  and  simmer  for  forty-five  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  serve  at  once. 

CABBAGE  A  LA  FLAMANDE— II 

Make  a  stufiing  of  bread-crumbs  or  boiled  rice, 
mixed  with  chopped  cooked  meat  or  fish,  sea- 
soning with  bacon,  chopped  onion,  and  sweet 
herbs.  Add  enough  beaten  egg  to  bind.  Trim 
and  parboil  a  large  head  of  cabbage,  drain,  cool, 
scoop  out  the  centre,  and  fill  with  the  stuffing. 
Tie  in  netting  and  boil  for  an  hour  in  stock  to 
cover.  Drain,  remove  the  netting,  reduce  the 
liquid  by  rapid  boiling,  thicken  it  with  flour 
cooked  in  butter,  strain  over  the  cabbage, 
and  serve. 

CABBAGE  k  LA  PRANQAISE— I 

Chop  fine  cold  boiled  white  cabbage  and 
drain,  pressing  out  all  the  water.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  melted  butter,  moisten  with 
cream  and  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Turn  into  a 
buttered  frying-pan  and  cook  slowly  until  brown 
on  the  under  side.  Place  a  hot  dish  over  the 
frying-pan  and  turn  out. 


no  f)ow  to  Coofi  Vegetabled 

CABBAGE  X  LA  FRANQAISE— II 

Trim  and  quarter  a  cabbage  and  soak  it  for  an 
hour  in  salted  water.  Drain  and  boil  for  twenty 
minutes  in  an  uncovered  saucepan  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  soda  added  to 
the  water.  Drain,  press  out  the  liquid,  chop 
fine,  sprinkle  with  flour,  and  reheat  with  a  little 
melted  butter.  Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon  and 
serve. 

CABBAGE  X  LA  FRANKFORT 

Shred  a  cabbage  and  simmer  until  it  begins  to 
soften  in  a  little  butter  or  lard.  Add  an  onion 
stuck  with  cloves,  cover  with  boiling  water,  sim- 
mer for  an  hour,  remove  the  onion,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  serve. 

CABBAGE  X  L'lTALIENNE 

Boil  a  cabbage  until  tender,  changing  the  water 
once.  Drain,  cool,  chop,  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Arrange  in  layers  in  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  alternating  with  buttered  crumbs  and 
grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Have  crumbs  and 
cheese  on  top.  When  the  dish  is  nearly  full, 
pour  in  a  cupful  of  well-seasoned  beef  stock, 
and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

CABBAGE  X  LA  MACKENZIE 

Shred  a  cabbage  fine.  Soak  in  ice- water,  and 
drain    thoroughly.     Mix    with    cream    whipped 


t05  TUiasa  to  Coofi  Cabbage        m 

solid,  seasoning  with  salt  only.     Serve  at  once 
with  toasted  crackers  and  cheese. 

CABBAGE  A  LA  NAVARRAISE 

Trim,  quarter,  and  core  two-  small  cabbages. 
Parboil,  cool,  and  drain,  pressing  out  the  water. 
Cut  in  small  pieces  and  reheat  in  melted  butter, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg. 
When  it  has  browned  a  little,  add  a  bunch  of 
parsley,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  a  pinch  of  powdered 
cloves,  and  two  cupfuls  of  Velout6  Sauce. 
Cover  and  cook  for  an  hour  or  more.  Remove 
the  parsley  and  garlic  and  serve. 

CABBAGE  A  LA  PROVENCE 

Trim,  slice,  and  parboil  a  small  cabbage.  Drain 
and  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  butter, 
parsley,  th5mie,  bay-leaf,  clove,  and  chopped 
onion  or  garlic.  Cover  with  white  stock  and  cook 
for  an  hour.  Take  up  the  cabbage  and  arrange 
on  slices  of  toast.  Reduce  the  liquid  half  by 
rapid  boiling,  strain  over  the  cabbage,  and 
serve. 

CABBAGE  A  LA  RUSSE 

Slice  a  firm  cabbage  very  thin.  Soak  for  half 
an  hour  in  cold  water,  and  drain,  pressing  out 
all  the  liquid.  Cover  with  boiling  salted  water 
and  cook  uncovered  for  fifteen  minutes.  Drain 
thoroughly.     Reheat   for   ten   minutes   with    a 


112  f)ow  to  (took  VcQcinblcs 

cupful  of  cream,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season, 
then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  serve. 

PICKLED  RED  CABBAGE  WITH  OYSTERS 

Cook  a  pickled  red  cabbage  in  boiling  water 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Drain,  dry  with  a  cloth, 
and  reheat  with  a  little  butter  and  enough  stock 
to  cook  it.  Boil  slowly  until  done,  seasoning 
with  pepper.  Drain,  surround  with  stewed 
oysters,  and  serve. 

SMOTHERED  RED  CABBAGE— I 

Shred  a  red  cabbage  and  cook  until  tender  with 
a  sliced  onion  and  enough  butter  to  keep  from 
burning.  When  tender  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
half  a  cupful  of  Rhine  wine  or  white  vinegar. 

SMOTHERED  RED  CABBAGE— II 

Trim  and  quarter  a  small  red  cabbage,  soak 
in  cold  water,  drain,  and  cut  into  very  thin 
slices.  Press  out  the  water  and  put  into  a 
saucepan  in  which  a  slice  of  chopped  salt  pork 
has  been  fried  brown  and  crisp.  Add  a  sour 
apple,  chopped,  and  enough  water  to  keep  from 
burning.  Cover  and  cook  slowly,  adding  more 
water  if  needed.  When  nearly  done  add  vinegar 
to  taste.     It  should  be  nearly  dry  when  done. 

STEWED  RED  CABBAGE— I 

Cut  the  cabbage  very  fine  and  put  it  into  a 


t05  Winte  to  Cook  Cabbage        113 

colander.  Pour  boiling  water  through  it  three 
times  and  drain  thoroughly.  Fry  a  chopped 
onion  in  butter  or  drippings,  add  the  drained 
cabbage  and  enough  cold  water  to  cover.  Add 
two  bay-leaves  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  boil  until 
tender.  Take  out  the  bay-leaves,  season  to 
taste  with  sugar  and  vinegar,  and  thicken  with  a 
teaspoonful  or  more  of  flour  rubbed  smooth 
with  a  little  cold  water. 

STEWED  RED  CABBAGE— II 

Shred  a  red  cabbage  very  fine.  Put  into  a 
kettle  with  five  sour  apples  peeled  and  quartered, 
pepper  and  salt  to  season  highly,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  powdered  cloves. 
Add  water  to  cover  and  boil  until  tender,  adding 
more  liqmd  as  needed.  There  should  not  be  over 
one  cupful  of  water  when  done.  Add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve. 

STEWED  RED  CABBAGE— III 

Shred  a  large  red  cabbage  and  put  it  into  a 
saucepan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
a  cupful  of  vinegar,  and  two  cupfuls  of  well- 
seasoned  stock.  Cook  slowly  until  tender, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  drain,  and  serve 
on  a  platter  with  a  garnish  of  cooked  sausages. 

STEWED  RED  CABBAGE— IV 

Clean  a  red  cabbage  and  trim  ofiE  all  tough 
parts.     Peel   and   slice  a  large  onion  and   fry 

8 


1 


114  1>ow  to  Cook  tPegetablee 

it  in  butter,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Add  a  cupful  or  more  of  stock  or  gravy  and 
the  cabbage.  Pour  half  a  cupful  of  vinegar  over 
the  cabbage,  cover  tightly,  and  cook  slowly  for 
an  hour  or  more,  stirring  occasionally.  Serve 
very  hot. 

RED  CABBAGE  X  L'ALLEMANDE— I 

Slice  thin  a  red  cabbage,  put  into  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  drippings,  and 
half  a  cupful  of  vinegar.  Cook  slowly  for  two 
hours,  sprinkle  over  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and 
cook  ten  minutes  longer. 

RED  CABBAGE  A  UALLEMANDE— II 

Slice  enough  red  cabbage  to  make  a  quart,  and 
soak  for  an  hour  in  cold  water.  Drain  and  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion,  and 
salt,  cayenne,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  season. 
Cover  and  cook  until  the  cabbage  is  tender. 
Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  heat  thoroughly,  and 
serve. 

RED  CABBAGE  X  L'ALLEMANDE— III 

Clean,  trim,  and  slice  a  large  red  cabbage. 
Put  half  a  cupful  of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  add 
the  cabbage,  with  salt,  pepper,  and  powdered 
sugar  to  season.     Cover  and  cook  slowly  in  the 


105  WnB  to  Cook  Cabbage        tis 

oven  for  three  or  four  hours,  stirring  occasionally. 
Serve  in  a  deep  vegetable  dish. 

RED  CABBAGE  A  L'ALLEMANDE— IV 

Trim  a  red  cabbage  and  soak  in  cold  water 
for  an  hour.  Drain  and  shred,  removing  the 
core.  Fry  a  small  onion  soft  in  butter,  add  the 
cabbage,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  cover 
and  cook  very  slqwly  until  the  cabbage  is  tender. 
Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  one 
cupful  of  Claret.  Cook  rapidly  for  fifteen 
minutes,  stirring  constantly. 

RED  CABBAGE  X  LA  BABETTE 

Slice  a  red  cabbage  very  fine,  sprinkle  with 
salt,  and  add  a  peeled  and  sliced  sour  apple. 
Stew  slowly  a  tablespoonful  of  drippings,  a 
chopped  onion,  and  enough  hot  water  to  keep 
from  burning.  When  tender,  season  with  vine- 
gar, powdered  cloves,  brown  sugar,  and  cinna- 
mon.    This  is  a  Jewish  recipe. 

RED  CABBAGE  A  LA  FLAMANDE— I 

Trim  and  quarter  a  red  cabbage.  Scald,  drain, 
and  chop  fine.  Simmer  for  an  hour  in  a  covered 
saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a 
chopped  onion,  a  bay-leaf,  two  cloves,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  small  piece  of  chili 
pepper.  Stir  occasionally,  take  out  the  bay- 
leaf,  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  serve. 


ii6  f>ow  to  Cooli  IDegetablee 

RED  CABBAGE  A  LA  FLAMANDE— II 

Cut  a  pound  of  salt  pork  into  dice  and  fry  it 
light  brown,  adding  a  little  more  fat  if  necessary. 
Add  two  sliced  red  cabbages,  salt  and  pepper 
to  season,  and  half  a  dozen  peeled,  cored,  and 
sliced  tart  apples.  Add  a  cupful  of  stock  and 
a  wineglassful  of  brandy.  Bring  to  the  boil, 
cover  with  buttered  paper,  then  cover  the  sauce- 
pan and  bake  for  two  hours.  Drain  oflE  the 
fat  and  serve. 

REI)  CABBAGE  A  LA  HOLLANDAISE 

Trim  and  shred  a  red  cabbage  and  soak  it 
in  cold  water  for  an  hour.  Parboil  for  five 
minutes,  then  drain.  Fry  a  small  chopped 
onion  soft  in  butter,  add  the  cabbage  and 
four  tart  apples,  peeled,  cored,  and  chopped. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  cook  un- 
covered for  thirty  minutes,  stirring  occasion- 
ally. Add  half  a  cupful  of  cream,  reheat,  and 
serve. 

RED  CABBAGE  A  LA  HEIDELBERG 

Shred  a  red  cabbage  and  put  into  a  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  of  butter  or  drippings 
melted.  Add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar, 
an  onion  stuck  with  three  cloves,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Simmer  slowly  for  two  hours, 
adding  enough  stock  or  water  to  keep  from 
burning. 


105  Wiartfi  to  Cooft  Cabbage       117 

RED  CABBAGE  A  LA  HONGROISE 

Shred  a  red  cabbage  very  fine.  Cook  until 
tender  in  salted  and  acidulated  water  to  cover, 
adding  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  When  half 
done,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  four 
or  five  sour  apples  peeled,  cored,  and  sliced.  Boil 
tintil  well  done.  Serve  with  roast  duck  or  goose, 
or  fried  sausages. 


FIFTY-SIX     WAYS     TO     COOK 

CARROTS 

BOILED  CARROTS 

Cook  peeled  and  sliced  carrots  in  salted  boiling 
water  to  cover.  Drain  and  serve  with  melted 
butter.  • 

BOILED  CARROTS  WITH  CABBAGE 

Peel  the  carrots,  cut  into  thin  strips,  and  cook 
until  tender  in  salted  mutton  stock  to  cover  with 
twice  the  quantity  of  shredded  cabbage.  Cook 
together  a  tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and 
drippings  and  add  enough  of  the  cooking  liquid 
to  make  a  smooth  thick  sauce.  Season  with 
brown  sugar  and  cinnamon,  pour  over  the  drained 
vegetables,  and  serve.  A  pinch  of  ground  ginger 
may  be  added  to  the  mutton  stock.  This  is  a 
Jewish  recipe, 

STEWED  CARROTS— I 

Cook  a  quart  of  diced  carrots  in  boiling  salted 
water  until  tender,  and  drain.  Thicken  the 
cooking  liquid  with  flour  cooked  in  butter, 
season  with  pepper  and  sugar,  reheat  the  carrots 
in  the  sauce,  and  serve. 

n8 


yttte^SIx  lQla]30  to  Cooft  aattot0     119 

STEWED  CARROTS— II 

Parboil  a  bunch  of  carrots,  drain,  and  cut 
into  dice.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  two  small 
onions  chopped,  pepper,  salt,  and  minted  parsley 
to  season  and  enough  Drawn-Butter  Sauce  to 
moisten.     Simmer  half  an  hour  and  serve. 

STEWED  CARROTS— III 

Scrape  whole  carrots  and  soak  for  half  an  hour 
in  cold  water.  Drain  and  cook  for  forty-five 
minutes  in  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  cut 
into  thin  slices  or  dice,  and  cook  for  half  an  hour 
in  stock  to  cover,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Bring 
to  the  boil  and  serve.  Water  may  be  used 
instead  of  stock  if  another  tablespoonful  of 
butter  is  added. 

STEWED  CARROTS— IV 

Peel  and  slice  eight  large  carrots  and  cook 
until  tender  in  equal  parts  of  stock  and  water. 
Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  salt, 
pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  season.  Thicken 
the  cooking  liquid  with  a  tablespoonful  each  of 
flour  and  butter  cooked  together,  add  a  table- 
spoonful of  minced  parsley,  a  teaspoonful 
of  sugar,  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter 
broken  into  small  bits.  Serve  as  soon  as  the 
butter  is  melted. 


X30  Dow  to  cooft  Dcdetablee 

STEWED  CARROTS— V 

Scrape  the  carrots  and  slice  lengthwise.  Wash 
in  cold  water,  drain,  cover  with  boiling  salted 
water,  and  cook  for  an  hour.  Drain,  season  with 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  moisten  with  cream, 
and  serve  very  hot.     The  cream  may  be  omitted. 

STEWED  CARROTS— VI 

Scrape,  wash,  and  cut  the  carrots  into  dice. 
Cook  until  tender  in  salted  water  to  cover. 
Drain  off  nearly  all  the  water,  sprinkle  with 
sugar,  and  cook  until  the  liquid  is  absorbed. 
Reheat  in  Cream  Sauce,  sprinkle  with  minced 
parsley,  and  serve. 

STEWED  CARROTS— VII 

Peel  and  cut  the  carrots  into  dice.  Cook 
for  an  hour  in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover. 
Drain,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  sugar,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  pepper  to  season,  and 
enough  rich  stock  to  moisten.  Cook  rapidly 
until  the  stock  has  been  nearly  absorbed. 
Serve  very  hot. 

STEWED  CARROTS— VIII 

Peel  and  slice  half  a  dozen  carrots.  Boil  until 
tender  in  salted  water  to  cover,  changing  the 
water  three  times.  Drain,  dry,  and  fry  brown 
in  butter,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Dredge  with  flour,  add  a  cupful  of  cream,  and 


fitte^Six  iniaiB0  to  cooft  Catrot0     laz 

cook  slowly  until  the  sauce  is  smooth  and  thick. 
Serve  immediately. 

CARROTS  STEWED  IN  CREAM 

Wash  and  slice  enough  carrots  to  make  two 
cupfuls.  Simmer  until  nearly  tender  in  stock 
to  cover.  Add  a  cupful  of  cream,  thicken  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

FRIED  CARROTS 

Clean  and  parboil  the  carrots,  drain,  cut  into 
thin  slices  lengthwise,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

CARROTS  SAUTE— I 

Boil  two  cupfvds  of  peeled  and  diced  carrots 
for  half  an  hour  in  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain 
and  cover  with  stock.  Cook  rapidly,  uncovered, 
until  the  stock  is  nearly  evaporated,  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  serve. 

CARROTS  SAUTE— II 

Cut  scraped  spring  carrots  into  thin  slices 
and  cook  until  tender  in  water  to  cover.  Drain, 
and  reheat  in  butter,  seasoning  with  sugar, 
pepper,  and  salt.  Do  not  allow  the  carrots 
to  fry.  Sprinkle  with  minced  parsley  and 
powdered  chervil  before  serving.  The  chervil 
may  be  omitted. 


122  Dow  to  coofi  lt^e0etable0 

CARROTS  SAUTE  A  LA  FRANgAISE 

Scrape  and  wash  a  do^en  young  carrots,  cover 
with  cold  salted  water,  and  boil  until  tender. 
Drain  and  fry  brown  in  butter,  adding  a  pinch  of 
sugar.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle 
with  minced  parsley  and  lemon-juice  if 
desired. 

SPRING  CARROTS— I 

Trim  and  scrape  two  bunches  of  spring  carrots. 
Parboil  for  ten  minutes  in  salted  water  to  cover. 
Drain,  and  rinse  in  cold  water.  Put  into  a  deep 
baking-dish  with  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
butter  and  sugar  and  two  cupf  uls  of  well-seasoned 
beef  stock.  Cover  and  cook  slowly  until  tender. 
Drain,  reduce  the  liquid  by  rapid  boiling,  pour 
over  the  earrots,  and  serve. 

SPRING  CARROTS— II 

Leave  the  stalks  on.  Scrape  and  boil  in  salted 
water  until  tender.  Pour  over  a  Cream  Sauce, 
seasoning  it  with  minced  parsley  and  lemon- 


juice. 


CARROTS  WITH  LEMON  SAUCE 

Peel  and  cut  into  dice  a  pint  of  carrots. 
Simmer  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain 
and  reheat,  seasoning  with  butter,  sugar,  paprika, 
minced  parsley,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
The  sugar  and  lemon-juice  may  be  omitted. 


fitVs^Six  Wx^  to  Cooft  Cattot6     123 

CARROTS  WITH  FINE  HERBS 

Wash  and  scrape  three  large  carrots  and  cut 
into  thick  slices.  Cover  with  cold  salted  water, 
bring  to  the  boil  and  cook  until  tender.  Fry  a 
chopped  onion  brown  in  butter,  pour  over  two 
cupf uls  of  stock  or  water  and  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Add  the  drained  carrots  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
minced  parsley.  Cook  for  five  minutes,  take 
fromi  the  fire,  and  season  to  taste  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  lemon-juice.  Serve  with  a  garnish 
of  toast  points  or  croutons. 

CARROTS  AND  PEAS— I 

Cook  separately  until  tender  diced  carrots 
and  green  peas.  Drain,  mix,  and  reheat  in 
White,  Bechamel,  or  Cream  Sauce,  or  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  melted  butter. 

CARROTS  AND  PEAS— II 

Clean  and  cut  into  dice  enough  carrots  to 
make  two  cupftils.  Cook  until  tender  in  salted 
water,  drain,  and  reserve  one  half  cupful  of  the 
carrot  liquid.  Mix  the  carrots  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  cooked  green  peas.  Sprinkle  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  add  two  table- 
spoonftils  of  butter,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar 
to  season.  Add  the  half  cupful  of  carrot  liquid 
and  half  a  cupful  of  stock,  or  use  a  cupful  of 
either.  Cook  until  smooth  and  thick,  stirring 
constantly.     Sprinkle  with  minced  parsley,  and 


124  1>ow  to  coofi  iDegetablcd 

serve.      Carrots  and  peas  may  also  be  served  with 
a  Sweet-and-Sour  Sauce. 

CARROTS  AND  ASPARAGUS 

Reheat  in  milk  or  white  stock  equal  quantities 
of  sliced  cooked  carrots  and  cooked  asparagus 
cut  into  short  pieces.  Thicken  with  flour  cooked 
in  butter,  take  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  well  beaten.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
butter,  and  minced  parsley. 

CARROTS  AND  TURNIPS 

Cut  carrots  and  turnips  into  dice,  or  balls, 
using  a  French  cutter,  and  cook  separately  tmtil 
tender  in  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  mix, 
and  reheat  in  Cream  Sauce. 

CARROTS  IN  TURNIP  CUPS 

Peel  two  carrots  and  cut  into  very  small  dice. 
Cook  slowly  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water 
to  cover,  and  drain.  Peel  half  a  dozen  small 
white  turnips  and  cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end 
of  each.  Scoop  out  the  pulp  and  cook  both 
cups  and  covers  in  boiling  water  to  cover  until 
tender.  Mix  the  cooked  carrots  with  Cream  or 
Hollandaise  Sauce,  or  merely  moisten  with 
seasoned  cream.  Fill  the  turnip  cups,  put  on  the 
lids,  stick  a  sprig  of  parsley  in  each,  and  serve. 
The  lids  may  be  left  off  and  the  carrots  sprinkled 
with  minced  parsley. 


fitVs^Six  Wa^e  to  Coofi  Gattotd     125 

CREAMED  CARROTS 

Scrape  the  carrots  and  boil  until  tender  in 
salted  water  to  cover.  Drain  and  cut  into  slices, 
strips,  balls,  or  dice.  Reheat  in  a  Cream  Sauce 
and  serve.  Sprinkle  with  minced  parsley  if 
desired,  and  add  a  little  onion-juice  or  chopped 
chives. 

CREAMED  CARROTS  A  LA  FRANQAISE 

Scald  young  carrots  for  five  minutes,  drain 
and  rub  ofiE  the  skins  with  a  coarse  cloth.  Slice 
thinly  crosswise  and  simmer  covered  for  half  an 
hour  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper  to  season  and  enough  hot  water  to  keep 
from  burning.  Bring  to  the  boil  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cream,  take  from  the  fire,  and  pour  upon 
the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Heat,  but  do  not 
boil,  pour  over  the  carrots,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
minced  parsley  and  serve. 

SWEET-AND-SOUR  CARROTS 

Cook  peeled  and  sliced  carrots  until  tender  in 
salted  water  to  cover.  Drain  and  reserve  the 
liquid.  Serve  with  a  Sweet-and-Sour  Sauce, 
using  the  water  the  carrots  were  boiled  in  for 
liquid. 

CARROTS  IN  WHITE  SAUCE 

Boil  a  dozen  small  French  carrots  in  salted 
water  to  cover  until  tender.     Drain,  cut  into  thin 


126  f)ovi^  to  Cook  1t)edetable0 

slices,  and  saut^  in  butter.  Reheat  in  White 
Sauce  seasoned  with  mace  and  add  a  cupful  of 
cooked  green  peas. 

GLAZED  CARROTS 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Carrots  in  White  Sauce.  Put  into  a  baking-pan 
with  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  sugar, 
half  a  cupful  of  stock,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake 
until  the  stock  is  reduced  to  glaze  and  the 
carrots  are  brown.  Add  a  little  lemon-juice 
with  the  stock  if  desired. 

CARROT  CROQUETTES 

Cook  until  very  tender  enough  peeled  and 
sliced  carrots  to  make  a  pint.  Mash  through 
a  sieve  and  add  the  yolk  of  one  egg  well  beaten, 
a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  pepper 
and  salt  to  season  highly.  Cool  on  ice,  shape 
into  croquettes  or  balls,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  keep  on  ice  until  firm.  Fry  in  deep  fat, 
drain,  and  serve  very  hot. 

SMOTHERED  CARROTS 

Clean,  scrape,  and  cut  into  dice  enough  carrots 
to  make  a  pint.  Soak  in  cold  water  for  half  an 
hour.  Put  into  a  double  boiler  with  no  liquid 
except  that  which  clings  to  them.  Cover 
tightly  and  cook  until  tender.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  pour  over  melted  butter  or  White 
or  Cream  Sauce. 


fitt^^Six  Waw  to  Coofi  darrote     127 

CARROT  TIMBALES 

Cook  four  peeled  and  sliced  carrots  until  tender 
in  stock  to  cover.  Drain  and  mash.  Add  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  onion 
to  season  and  a  tablespoonful  of  cream.  Mix 
thoroughly,  put  into  small  buttered  timbale 
cups,  put  them  in  a  baking-pan  in  boiling  water, 
cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  for  twenty 
minutes.  Turn  out  carefully,  surround  with  a 
border  of  cooked  peas,  and  serve. 

PICKLED  CARROTS 

Peel  and  slice  half  a  dozen  large  carrots.  Cook 
slowly  until  tender  in  boiling  water  to  cover. 
Drain  and  put  into  an  earthen  bowl  with  a  slice 
of  onion,  two  bay-leaves,  a  teaspoonful  of  celery 
seed,  and  vinegar  to  cover.  Let  stand  for  twenty- 
four  hours  before  serving. 

PUREE  OF  CARROTS 

Wash  and  scrape  four  or  five  large  carrots  and 
boil  until  tender  in  stock  to  cover,  adding  an 
onion  stuck  with  two  cloves,  a  teaspoonful  of 
butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Press 
through  a  coarse  sieve,  season  with  butter,  grated 
nutmeg,  and  sugar,  and  add  enough  stock  to  make 
it  of  the  proper  consistency.  Serve  with  a  border 
of  mutton  cutlets. 

CARROT  HASH 
Peel  and   chop   three   carrots,    simmer   until 


128  f>ow  to  Coofi  tDefietablcd 

tender  in  two  cupfuls  of  stock,  adding  a  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  onion,  a  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
Sprinkle  with  minced  parsley  and  serve, 

BUTTERED  CARROTS 

Cook  peeled  and  sliced  carrots  until  tender  in 
boiling  salted  water.  Drain  and  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter 
and  sugar,  for  each  two  cupfuls  of  carrots. 
Stir  constantly  until  covered  with  syrup  and 
colored  a  little.  Sprinkle  with  lemon- juice  and 
serve  immediately. 

MASHED  CARROTS 

Clean  and  split  the  carrots  and  boil  until  tender 
in  salted  water  or  stock  to  cover.  Drain,  press 
through  a  sieve,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
butter,  and  serve.  A  little  cream  may  be 
added.  It  may  be  pressed  into  buttered 
individual  moulds  turned  out  in  fancy  shapes 
if  desired. 

CARROT  FRITTERS 

Boil  a  large  carrot  until  very  tender  and 
press  it  through  a  sieve.  Add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  cream  and  two  eggs  well  beaten. 
Shape  into  fritters  or  drop  by  spoonfuls  into 
deep  boiling  fat.  Drain  and  serve  with  Brown 
Sauce. 


fitt^mSix  VBai^  to  Coolt  Catrota     1129 

CARROTS  A  L'ALLEMANDE 

Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  put  into 
it  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion  and  six  peeled 
carrots  cut  into  thin  slices.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg,  adding  from  time  to 
time  enough  water  or  stock  to  keep  from  burning. 
Thicken  the  sauce  with  a  little  flour  made  smooth 
with  a  little  cold  water  or  stock.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  minced  parsley  and  serve. 

CARROTS  A  LA  fifeCHAMEL 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Carrots  k  la  Maitre  d'H6tel  and  reheat  in  a 
Bechamel  Sauce. 

CARROTS  A  LA  BOURGEOISE 

Peel  two  bunches  of  new  carrots,  parboil  for 
two  minutes,  drain,  and  reheat  in  white  stock 
to  cover,  with  two  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Cover  and  cook  for  forty 
minutes.  Drain,  reduce  the  cooking  liquid, 
thicken  with  flour  cooked  in  butter,  add  a  Httle 
more  butter,  and  serve. 

CARROTS  A  LA  CAMBRIDGE 

Pry  a  small  chopped  onion  in  butter  and  add 
six  carrots  cut  into  thin  slices,  seasoning  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg.  Cook  slowly 
until  tender,  adding  water  or  stock  as  needed. 
Thicken  the  sauce  with  flour  cooked  in  butter, 


X30  f)ow  to  (tooft  XOegcUblce 

and  just  before  serving  sprinkle  with  minced 
parsley. 

CARROTS  A  LA  CARAMEL 

Cut  boiled  carrots  into  long  thin  strips.  Fry 
in  equal  parts  of  butter  and  drippings,  seasoning 
with  sugar,  pepper,  and  salt.  When  brown 
sprinkle  with  minced  parsely  and  serve. 

CARROTS  A  L'ESPAGNOLE 

Parboil,  drain,  and  quarter  two  bunches  of  new 
carrots.  •  Reheat  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  enough  white  stock 
nearly  to  cover.  Cover  and  cook  until  tender. 
Add  a  cupful  of  Spanish  Sauce,  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  broken  into  small  bits,  and  pepper  and 
grated  nutmeg  to  season. 

CARROTS  A  LA  FLAMANDE— I 

Trim  a  bunch  of  young  carrots,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  and  let  stand  for  five  minutes. 
Drain,  rub  off  the  skin  with  a  coarse  cloth,  cut 
into  thin  slices,  and  cook  until  tender  in  a  cupful 
of  water  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  season.  Take  from  the  j&re  and 
add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  a  cupful 
of  cream  and  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley. 
Heat  gradually  until  smooth  and  thick,  stirring 
constantly.  Serve  as  soon  as  the  sauce  is 
smooth.    A  little  sugar  and  grated  nutmeg  may 


fitt^Bix  Wtt^  to  aooft  aattot0     131 

be  added  and  only  half  a  cupful  of  cream  or  milk 
used. 

CARROTS  A  LA  FLAMANDE— II 

Scrape,  slice,  and  cook  a  quart  of  carrots  in 
salted  water  to  cover  until  tender.  Chop  a 
small  onion  fine,  fry  it  brown  in  butter,  add  the 
drained  carrots  and  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and 
minced  parsley  to  season.  Cook  for  ten  minutes 
add  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  stock,  cover,  and 
simmer  for  half  an  hour. 

CARROTS  A  L'lTALIENNE 

Scrape  and  slice  half  a  dozen  carrots  and  let 
stand  for  half  an  hour  in  cold  water  to  cover. 
Drain  and  cook  in  stock  to  cover  until  tender, 
seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Thicken  the 
cooking  liquid  with  a  tablespoonful  each 
of  butter  and  flour  cooked  together  and 
color  brown  with  kitchen  bouquet,  or  beef 
extract. 

CARROTS  A  LA  LILLOISE 

Peel  and  cut  into  very  thin  slices  two  bunches 
of  spring  carrots.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with 
boiling  salted  water  to  cover,  a  teaspoonful 
or  more  of  sugar,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Cover  and  cook  for  half  an  hour.  Add  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs  beaten  with  a  half-cupful  of  cream, 
a  tablespoonfid  of  butter,  broken  into  small  bits, 
and  heat  slowly  until  the  sauce  is  smooth  and 


132  f)ow  to  Cooft  Vegetables 

thick.     Sprinkle    with    minced    parsley    before 
serving. 

CARROTS  A  LA  LYONS 

Peel  and  quarter  two  bunches  of  spring  car- 
rots. Parboil  for  five  minutes,  drain,  and  cook 
until  tender  in  stock  to  cover,  adding  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  salt  to  season.  Add  half 
a.  cupful  of  Velout^  Sauce,  a  little  minced  parsley, 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  broken  into 
small  bits. 

CARROTS  A  LA  LYONNAISE 

Cut  boiled  carrots  into  small  dice  and  fry  in 
butter  with  a  chopped  onion.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  sprinkle  with  minced  parsley, 
and  serve. 

CARROTS  A  LA  MAITRE  D'  HCTEL 

Scrape  and  wash  new  carrots  and  cook  in  boil- 
ing salted  water  until  tender.  Drain,  and  cut  in 
small  pieces  or  slices  as  preferred.  Pour  over 
a  Mattre  d'H6tel  Sauce  and  serve  hot. 

CARROTS  A  LA  MARYLAND 

Clean  and  trim  two  bunches  of  spring  carrots. 
Simmer  until  tender  in  boiling  water  to  cover. 
Cook  together  one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter 
and  flour,  add  two  cupfuls  of  chicken  stock,  and 
cook  imtil  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 


#ifts«Six  Mai^d  to  Cooft  <Caftot6     133 

beaten  smooth  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cream. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  the  hot 
sauce  over  the  drained  carrots. 

CARROTS  A  LA  MAJESTIC 

Cut  peeled  and  trimmed  carrots  into  fancy 
shapes  with  French  vegetable  cutters.  Cook  in 
butter  without  burning,  moistening  from  time 
to  time  with  stock  or  water.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  powdered  sugar.  Just  before  serv- 
ing add  a  little  melted  butter  and  sprinkle 
with  minced  parsley. 

CARROTS  k  LA  PROVENCE 

Peel  and  slice  young  carrots  and  let  stand  for 
half  an  hour  in  cold  water.  Drain  and  cook 
until  tender  in  stock  to  cover,  seasoning  with 
salt,  pepper,  mace,  sweet  herbs,  and  parsley. 
Drain,  strain  the  liquid,  thicken  it  with  flour 
browned  in  butter,  pour  over  the  carrots,  and 
serve. 

CARROTS  X  LA  POULETTE 

Wash,  scrape,  and  scald  the  carrots.  Drain, 
slice,  and  cook  until  done  in  stock  to  cover  or  in 
salted  water  to  which  a  little  butter  has  been 
added.  Drain,  cut  in  slices  or  dice,  and  serve  with 
a  Poulette  Sauce. 

CARROTS  A  LA  RUSSE 
Cut  into  dice  enough  peeled  carrots  to  make 


134 


l)ow  to  coofi  vegetables 


two  cupfuls.  Brown  in  butter  or  drippings. 
Make  a  syrup  of  one  cupful  each  of  sugar  and 
water  and  boil  together  for  ten  minutes.  Pour 
over  the  carrots  and  cook  slowly  until  the  car- 
rots are  tender. 


FORTY-NINE      WAYS      TO       COOK 

CAULIFLOWER 

BOILED  CAULIFLOWER— I 

Wash  and  trim  a  head  of  cauliflower  and  soak 
it  for  an  hour  in  cold  salted  water,  head  down. 
Rinse  thoroughly,  cover  with  boiling  salted 
water,  and  boil  until  done.  Drain,  and  serve 
with  any  preferred  sauce. 

BOILED  CAULIFLOWER—II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I.  Without  draining,  put  it 
into  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  a  little  pepper.  Cover  tightly  and 
cook  over  a  slow  fire  for  half  an  hour.  Take  up 
carefully,  pour  over  the  cooking  liquid,  and  serve. 

BOILED  CAULIFLOWER— III 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I.  Drain,  and  put  into  a 
serving-dish.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  rubbed  smooth  with  a 
little  cold  milk,  and  enough  grated  nutmeg  to 
season.  Pour  slowly  into  a  cupful  of  boiling 
cream,  cook  for  a  minute,  pour  over  the  cauli- 

135 


136  1)ow  to  QOQik  1l)e0etal>le0 

flower,  and  serve.  Instead  of  the  eggs,  half  a 
cupful  of  the  cooking  liquid  may  be  used,  add' 
ing  a  large  lamp  of  butter. 

BOILED  CAULIFLOWER— IV 

Clean  and  trim  a  head  of  cauliflower  and  boil 
until  tender  in  salted  water,  adding  either  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour  or  a  slice  of  bread  to  the 
water.  Drain  and  pour  over  melted  butter 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg, 
minced  parsley,  and  vinegar  or  lemon-juice. 

BOILED  CAULIFLOWER— V 

Tie  a  cleaned  cauliflower  in  netting  and  cook 
until  tender  in  boiling  salted  and  acidulated 
water  to  cover.  Drain  and  put  into  a  deep 
serving-dish,  flower  upward.  Pour  over  it 
a  cupful  of  Drawn-Butter  Sauce,  seasoning  with 
lemon-juice,  pepper,  and  salt. 

BAKED  CAULIFLOWER— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I.  Put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  pour  over  a  Drawn-Butter  Sauce, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  add 
a  little  grated  cheese  if  desired.  Brown  in  the 
oven  and  serve  in  the  baking-dish. 

BAKED  CAULIFLOWER— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Creamed    Cauliflower,     put    into    a    buttered 


fott^t^KUnc  Waw  to  Cooft  aaulf flower    137 

baking-dish,  cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter, 
and  brown  in  the  oven.  Add  grated  cheese  if 
desired. 

BAKED  CAULIFLOWER— III 

Arrange  cooked  cauliflower  flowerets  in  a 
butteted  baking-dish  with  alternate  layers  of 
White,  Cream,  or  Bechamel  Sauce,  adding  more 
butter  to  the  sauce.  Cover  with  sauce,  sprinkle 
with  crumbs,  and  cheese,  dot  with  butter,  and 
bake  in  the  oven. 

BAKED  CAULIFLOWER— IV 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I.  Put  into  a  baking-dish, 
cover  with  criunbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
until  brown.  Pour  a  Cream  Sauce  around  it  and 
serve,  or  pour  the  sauce  over,  sprinkle  with 
crumbs,  and  bake  brown.  Add  a  little  grated 
cheese  if  desired. 

BUTTERED  CAULIFLOWER 

Boil  two  cauliflowers  in  salted  water  until 
tender.  Drain,  separate  into  flowerets,  range 
in  a  serving-dish,  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Heat  a  cupful  of  butter  in  a  frying- 
pan  without  browning,  skim,  and  put  in 
enough  fresh  crumbs  to  make  a  smooth 
thin  paste.  Spread  over  the  cauliflower  and 
serve. 


13S  l>aw  to  Cooft  iDegetables 

CREAMED  CAULIFLOWER 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I,  adding  a  pinch  of  soda  to 
the  water.  Cook  slowly  until  done,  drain,  cut 
into  convenient  pieces  for  serving,  pour  over 
a  Cream  Sauce  and  serve,  or  break  into  flower- 
ets and  reheat  in  Cream  Sauce. 

CAULIFLOWER    SAUT^ 

Separate  cooked  cauliflower  into  flowerets 
and  brown  slightly  in  butter,  or  marinate  in 
French  dressing  and  fry  in  oil.  Sprinkle  with 
minced  parsley  and  serve. 

FRIED  CAULIFLOWER— I 

Clean  a  cauliflower  and  separate  into  flowerets. 
Parboil  for  five  minutes,  change  the  water,  and 
cook  until  tender,  adding  a  tablespoonful  of 
salt  to  the  water.  Drain,  dry,  and,  if  desired 
marinate  in  French  dressing,  dip  in  crumbs, 
then  in  an  egg  beaten  with  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  water,  then  in  crumbs  or  batter.  Fry  in 
deep  fat  and  serve  with  Tartar  or  Tomato 
Sauce. 

FRIED  CAULIFLOWER— II 

Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Add  enough 
water  to  make  a  thin  paste,  and  salt  to  season. 
Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and 


#ott)Si«VUne  Wiavfi  to  Cooit  Caultnowet    139 

dip  parboiled  cauliflower  flowerets  into  the  batter. 
Fry  in  deep  fat  and  serve  hot. 

FRIED  CAULIFLOWER  A  L'lTALIENNE 

Parboil  two  heads  of  cauliflower  in  salted 
water,  drain,  cool,  and  break  into  flowerets.  Beat 
together  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  milk,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  olive-oil.  Add  salt  and  pepper 
to  season  and  enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a 
fritter  batter.  Beat  with  an  egg-beater  until 
very  smooth.  Dip  each  piece  of  cauliflower 
into  batter  and  fry  brown  and  crisp  in  deep  fat. 

CAULIFLOWER  FRITTERS 

Make  a  batter  of  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
well-beaten,  salt  and  pepper  to  season  and  a 
tablespoonful  or  more  of  flour.  Separate  freshly 
cooked  cauliflower  into  convenient  pieces.  Dip 
in  the  batter  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

ESCALLOPED  CAULIFLOWER— I 

Separate  the  cauliflower  into  flowerets  and 
boil  until  tender  in  water  to  cover.  Drain,  and 
arrange  on  slices  of  buttered  toast.  Cook  to- 
gether one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and 
flour,  add  one  cupful  of  milk  or  stock  and  cook 
until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  and  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  onion-juice.  Take  from  the 
fire,   add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten, 


I40  f)ow  to  CooR  iDegetablcd 

pour  over  the  cauliflower,  and  serve  at  once. 
AUemande  Sauce  may  be  used  instead. 

ESCALLOPED  CAULIFLOWER— II 

Boil  until  tender,  separate  into  small  pieces, 
and  pack  stems  downward  in  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  or  use  the  cauliflower  unbroken.  Mix 
a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter,  and  enough  cream  or  milk 
to  moisten,  pepper  and  salt  to  season,  and  one 
egg  well  beaten.  Spread  over  the  cauliflower, 
cover,  and  bake  for  six  minutes,  then  uncover  and 
brown.     Serve  in  the  same  dish. 

ESCALLOPED  CAULIFLOWER— III 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Creamed  Catdiflower  and  put  into  a  baking-dish 
in  layers,  alternating  with  chopped  hard-boiled 
eggs.  Cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and 
brown  in  the  oven,  or  mix  the  sauce  and  eggs 
with  the  cooked  cauliflower.  The  eggs  may  be 
omitted  and  grated  cheese  used  instead. 

CAULIFLOWER  IN  CHEESE  SHELL 

Use  a  pineapple  or  Edam  cheese  shell  from 
which  the  cheese  has  been  scooped  out.  Fill 
with  creamed  cauliflower,  sprinkle  with  cheese, 
and  bake  on  a  cloth  until  thoroughly  hot. 
Buttered  crumbs  may  be  spread  over  the  top  if 
desired. 


3fotVQ'»tiinc  Wn^  to  (tooft  CauUflovK^ec    141 

CAULIFLOWER  IN  CRUSTS 

Cut  the  tops  from  stale  rolls,  scoop  out  the 
crumbs,  and  toast  or  fry  the  shells  thus  made. 
Fill  with  creamed  cauliflower  and  serve. 

MOCK  CAULIFLOWER 

Boil  a  cleaned  and  quartered  cabbage  in 
salted  water  to  cover,  changing  the  water  three 
times.  When  tender,  drain,  pressing  out  all  the 
liquid,  and  chop  fine.  Beat  together  two  eggs, 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  melted,  half  a  cupful 
of  cream,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg 
to  season.  Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in  a 
buttered  baking-dish. 

TIMBALE  OF  CAULIFLOWER 

Boil  a  large  cauliflower  in  salted  water  to 
cover,  adding  half  a  cupful  of  flour  to  the 
water.  Cook  until  soft,  drain,  and  press  through 
a  sieve.  Soak  two  cupfuls  of  fresh  bread-crumbs 
in  milk,  squeeze  dry,  and  press  through  a  sieve. 
Mix  with  the  cauliflower,  add  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  well  beaten,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
melted,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Butter  a  mould, 
pour  the  pur^e  into  it,  cover,  and  cook  in  boiling 
water  nearly  to  the  height  of  the  mould  for 
forty-five  minutes.  Take  out  carefully  on  a 
serving-dish,  pour  over  it  a  rich  Cream  Sauce, 
and  serve. 


143  f>ow  to  Cooft  1t>eaetable0 

TIMBALES  OP  CAULIFLOWER 

Beat  two  eggs  separately.  Add  to  the  yolks 
half  a  cupful  of  cold  water,  a  tablespoonful  of 
olive-oil,  or  melted  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
one  cupful  of  pastry  flour.  Fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  let  stand  for  two 
hours.  Dip  a  timbale  iron  into  boiling  lard, 
then  into  the  batter,  fry  brown,  and  slip  off  the 
shell.  Reheat  just  before  serving,  fill  with  hot 
creamed  cauliflower,  and  serve. 

MASHED  CAULIFLOWER— I 

Separate  a  catiliflower  into  flowerets  and 
cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain, 
press  through  a  sieve,  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter,  reheat,  and  serve. 

MASHED  CAULIFLOWER— II 

Boil  and  separate  two  heads  of  cauliflower. 
Fry  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion  in  butter 
and  press  through  a  sieve  with  the  cauliflower. 
Moisten  with  Cream  Sauce,  season  with  salt  and 
sugar,  and  reheat,  adding  a  little  cream  if  it  is  too 
thick. 

STEWED  CAULIFLOWER 

Separate  two  heads  of  cauliflower  into  flower- 
ets, scald,  drain,  and  cook  until  tender  in  stock 
to  cover,  seasoning  with  grated  nutmeg.     Drain 


yottsofline  Wisc^  to  Cooft  Cattlfflovc^ct    143 

and  reheat  in  butter  with  a  little  minced  parsley. 
Serve  very  hot. 

CAULIFLOWER    WITH    DRAWN-BUTTER 

SAUCE 

Trim,  and  soak  head  downward  in  cold  salted 
water  for  an  hour.  Drain,  rinse,  tie  in  netting, 
and  cook  slowly  until  tender  in  water  or  stock 
to  cover.  Drain,  pour  over  a  Drawn-Butter 
Sauce,  and  serve.  Cream  or  Hollandaise  Sauce 
may  be  used  also. 

CAULIFLOWER  WITH  LEMON  SAUCE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I.  Cook  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour  in  butter  or  drippings,  and  add  a  cupful 
or  more  of  the  water  in  which  the  cauliflower  was 
cooked.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  take  from 
the  fire,  and  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten 
smooth  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Heat 
until  thick  but  do  not  boil,  pour  the  sauce  over 
the  cauliflower,  and  serve. 

CAULIFLOWER  WITH  MAYONNAISE 

Separate  cold  boiled  cauliflower  into  large 
pieces  and  marinate  with  French  dressing. 
Drain,  cover  with  mayonnaise,  and  serve  with  a 
garnish  of  cooked  slices  of  carrot. 

CAULIFLOWER  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

Steam   a  head   of   cauliflower   until   tender. 


144  f>OW  to  COOlft  VfCQCtnblCB 

separate  into  flowerets  and  arrange  each  piece 
on  a  small  round  of  buttered  toast.  Chop 
six  fresh  mushrooms  and  fry  in  butter.  Add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  when  cooked, 
one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  white  stock.  Cook 
until  thick,  stirring  constantly,  then  simmer 
for  ten  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  with  the  juice  of  a 
lemon.  Heat  until  smooth  and  thick  but  do  not 
boil.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over 
the  cauliflower,  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs, 
and  brown  quickly  in  a  hot  oven. 

CAULIFLOWER  WITH  PARMESAN  CHEESE 

Trim  the  stem  ends  of  four  small  cauliflower 
heads  so  that  they  will  stand  nicely  in  a  dish. 
Boil  until  tender  in  salted  water  to  cover  and 
arrange  in  a  deep  serving-dish.  Sprinkle 
thickly  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  spread 
with  a  thick  Cream  or  Drawn-Butter  Sauce  to 
which  has  been  added  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten 
with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Sprinkle  with 
crumbs  and  cheese,  dot  with  butter,  and  brown 
in  the  oven,  or  pour  over  a  cupful  of  milk  or 
Cream  Sauce.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs 
and  bake  for  half  an  hotir. 

CAULIFLOWER  WITH  STUFFING 

Make  a  stuffing  of  half  a  cupful  each  of  minced 
veal  and  beef  suet,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  bread- 
crumbs, a  dozen  small  mushrooms  chopped,  and 


fott^^iMnc  Mai30  to  Cook  (tauUftowet    245 

salt,  x>^pef>  minced  parsley,  and  grated  onion 
to  season.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  small  sauce- 
pan with  thin  slices  of  bacon  and  put  cooked 
cauliflower  flowerets  tightly  into  it,  heads  down. 
Pill  the  interstices  with  the  stuffing  and  pour 
over  three  eggs  beaten  in  enough  stock  to  cover 
the  cauliflower  and  stuffing.  Simmer  slowly 
until  the  cauliflower  is  tender  and  the  stock 
nearly  absorbed.  Turn  upside  down  on  a  hot 
platter,  taking  care  not  to  spoil  the  shape. 

CAULIFLOWER  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I,  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  melted  butter,  pour  over  a  Tomato  Sauce 
and  serve.  A  little  sugar  may  be  added  to  the 
Tomato  Sauce. 

CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  BEURRE  NOIR 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I.  Brown  half  a  cupful  of 
butter  in  a  frying-pan,  taking  care  not  to  bum. 
Take  from  the  Are  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  little  lemon-juice  or  vinegar. 
Pour  over  the  cauliflower  and  serve.  Cauli- 
flower is  sometimes  served  with  plain  naelted 
butter. 

CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  CAMBRIDGE 

Steam  a  cauliflower  imtil  tender  and  separate 
into     convenient     pieces.     Mix     together     the 
10 


146  t)ow  to  doolK  Degctablee 

slightly  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one-fourth 
cupful  of  olive-oil,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls 
each  of  salt,  dry  mustard  and  sugar,  and  a  pinch 
of  paprika.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  vinegar  and  a 
few  drops  of  onion- juice.  Cook  over  hot  water 
until  smooth  and  thick,  take  from  the  fire,  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  one 
teaspoonful  each  of  minced  parsley  and  curry 
powder.  Pour  over  the  hot  cauliflower  and 
serve. 

CAULIFLOWER  X  L'ESPAGNOLE 

Boil  two  heads  of  cauliflower,  drain,  separate 
into  flowerets  and  fry  partially  in  seasoned  oil. 
Take  up  and  fry  a  small  chopped  onion  in  the 
same  fat.  Add  two  cupfuls  of  Espagnole  Sauce, 
a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  the  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Pour  over  the  cauliflower  and 
serve. 

CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN— I 

Boil  flowerets  of  cauliflower  in  salted  water 
until  nearly  done  and  drain.  Arrange  in  layers 
in  a  buttered  baking-dish,  with  Cream  Sauce 
between  the  layers  and  sprinkling  each  layer 
thickly  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  When 
the  dish  is  full,  cover  with  sauce,  sprinkle  with 
cheese  and  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  brown 
in  the  oven.  Serve  in  the  baking-dish.  Or  use 
milk,  crtunbs,  and  bits  of  butter  between  the 
layers  instead  of  Cream  Sauce. 


fott^mWnc  W^i»  to  Cooft  CauUnowet    147 

CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I.  Drain,  and  put  into 
a  deep  baking-dish.  Sprinkle  thickly  with 
grated  cheese,  pour  over  a  B6chamel  Sauce, 
brown  in  the  oven,  and  serve  in  the  same 
dish. 

CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN— III 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower— I,  and  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Make  half  a  cupful  of  Drawn-Butter  Sauce,  and 
add  to  it  one  tablespoonful  of  cream  and  one 
or  two  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Put  half  the 
catdiflower  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  spread 
with  the  sauce,  All  the  dish,  and  cover  with 
sauce.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  cheese,  dot 
with  butter,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven,  or  cut  the  cauliflower  into  quarters, 
pour  over  the  sauce,  sprinkle  with  crvunbs  or 
cheese,  and  bake. 

CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  HONGROISE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I.  Drain,  separate  into 
flowerets,  and  arrange  in  a  buttered  baking-dish. 
Chop  a  small  onion  flne  and  fry  it  in  butter 
with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  stale  bread-crumbs. 
Cook  iuitil  brown,  spread  over  the  cauliflower, 
and  serve  immediately. 


148  f)ow  to  tfooft  VcgctnblCB 

CAULIFLOWER  X  L'lTALIENNE 

Prepare  two  small  heads  of  cauliflower  ac- 
cording to  directions  given  for  Boiled  Cauliflower 
— I.  Drain  and  put  into  a  baking-dish.  Bring 
to  the  boil  one  cupful  of  white  stock  and  half  a 
cupful  of  cream.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  grated  cheese.  Stir  the  sauce  over  the  fire 
until  thick,  pour  over  the  cauliflower,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  crumbs,  and  grated  cheese, 
and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

CAULIFLOWER  X  LA  MAItRE  D'H6tEL 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I.  Drain,  and  serve  with 
Maitre  d'Hdtel  Sauce. 

CAULIFLOWER  X  LA  MAY  IRWIN 

Cook  a  large  head  of  cauliflower  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender.  Break  into  flowerets 
and  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish.  Sprinkle 
thickly  with  grated  cheese,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  ^ry  mustard,  and  bake  brown 
in  the  oven.  Moisten  with  melted  butter  if 
desired. 

CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  PARMESAN— I 

Prepare  a  cauliflower  according  to  directions 
given  for  Cabbage  au  Gratin — I,  using  Parmesan 
cheese. 


fottat^Wnc  TIQlai20  to  Cook  CauUtlowet    149 


\ 


CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  PARMESAN—II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I,  and  cook  until  tender  in 
boiling  salted  water  to  cover,  adding  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  butter  and  a  little  pepper  to  the  liquid. 
Drain  upside  down,  then  put  on  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  to  be  served.  Reheat  one  cupful 
of  Velout^  Sauce  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  the  beaten  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  salt, 
pepper,  and  lemon-juice  to  season.  Do  not  allow 
the  sauce  to  boil.  Spread  the  sauce  over  the  cau- 
liflower, sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
bake  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  serve.  A  pint  of 
Bechamel  Sauce  may  be  used  and  the  lemon- 
juice  omitted.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and 
grated  cheese  and  bake. 

CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  POULETTE 

Boil  a  catdiflower  and  drain.  Make  a  sauce  of 
one  cupful  and  a  half  of  the  cooking  liquid, 
thickened  with  a  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of 
butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Take  from 
the  fire,  and  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water  or  stock.  Heat 
thoroughly  but  do  not  boil,  pour  over  the 
cauliflower,  and  serve. 

CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  PARISIENNE 

Boil  a  large  cauliflower  until  tender,  drain, 
chop,  and  press  hard  into  a  mould.    Turn  out 


ISO  Dow  to  dooft  vegetables 

on  a  platter  that  will  stand  the  heat  of  the  oven. 
Cook  together  a  tablespoon! nl  each  of  butter 
and  flour,  add  two  cupfuls  of  stewed  and  strained 
tomatoes,  and  oook  until  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
onion.  Add  enough  cracker-crumbs  to  make 
the  sauce  very  thick.  Spread  over  the  cauli- 
flower, put  it  into  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes^ 
and  serve. 

CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  TARTARS 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I.  Drain,  cool  in  ice-water, 
drain  again,  pour  over  a  Tartar  Sauce  and  serve. 


THIRTY-TWO   WAYS   TO   COOK 

CELERY 

BOILED  CELERY— I 

Cut  cleaned  and  trimmed  stalks  of  celery  into 
short  lengths  and  boil  slowly  in  salted  water  to 
cover  until  tender.  Drain  and  serve  on  slices 
of  toast  which  have  been  dipped  in  the  liquid. 
Pour  over  a  little  melted  butter,  season,  and 
serve. 

BOILED  CELERY— II 

Tie  cleaned  and  trimmed  stalks  of  celery  in 
bunches  with  string.  Cover  with  boiling  salted 
water,  add  a  chopped  onion,  a  little  mace,  and 
two  or  three  pepper-corns.  Cook  slowly  until 
done,  drain  the  celery,  remove  the  strings,  and 
arrange  on  a  serving-dish.  Strain  the  liquid 
and  reserve  enough  of  it  to  make  a  sauce. 
Thicken  with  flour  cooked  in  butter,  take  from 
the  fire,  and  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with 
the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Pour  over  the  celery  and 
serve.  Less  lemon-juice  may  be  used  in  the 
sauce  if  desired. 

BAKED  CELERY 

Parboil    and    drain    eight    heads   of    celery. 

151 


159  'ftOW  t9  COA 

Piniiii.  cooknig  in  white  ^farM'^r  with,  a 
salt  pack  and  SLlt^  pepper,  and  grsted 
to  aeafloo.  Drain,  atzam,  and  skim  ti&e 
liquid  and  thTrkwt  witli  a  tsthieapaaatil 
of  batter  and  fionr  cnnkrtf  togedxer.  Take  tiie 
saoce  froBO.  the  fise  ari  acM  the  yolks  of  tiuee 
eggs  and  half  a  copfal  of  graced  Swias  *  ^'-^  #i  _ 
Put  the  celery  mto  a  buttezed  ^nimrg-ifirii^ 
cover  with  the  sauce,  sprinkle  with  cimubs  and 

LTitesin  a 


BRAISED  CELERY 


Trxm  btmchcs  <^  odery,  tie  in  bandies^  parfinJ 
forten  mintttes,  drazn,  and  cover  with coki 
Let  stand  for  ten  nun ii firs,  drain, 
white  stodc,  and  simmrT  for  an  hoar, 
poor  over  Brown  Saaoe,and  serve  with  a 
ol  toast  points  or 


BRAISED  CELERY,  ESPAGXOLB 


Pisttboil,  drain,  and  oool  tender  stalks  of 
cat  into  short  lengths^  Put  into  a  ^ 
stock  to  cover,  and  onkn,  carrot,  and 
to  season.  Cover  and  cook  for  an  hoar  in  the 
oven,  adding  more  stock  if  required.  Take  out 
the  celery,  strain  and  skim  the  stodc  and  thirfaen 
ft  with  a  Httle  floor  robbed  smooth  in  cold  water. 
Poor  the  gravy  over  the  celery  and 


FRIED  CELERY— I 
Parboil,  drain,  dry,  and  cool  stalks  of  celery 


tMtvs^xsv^  TnUfis  to  OoofK  Ceietfi     153 

cut  into  short  lengths.  Dip  into  melted  butter 
and  fry  brown,  or  dip  into  fritter  batter,  or  in 
egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Olive- 
oil  may  be  used  for  frying.  Serve  with  melted 
butter  or  Brown  Sauce,  or  with  a  sprinkle  of 
grated  cheese. 

FRIED  CELERY— II 

Cut  cleaned  celery  stalks  into  f  our-iuch  lengths 
and  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water  to  cover. 
Drain,  cool,  and  dry.  Beat  together  three  eggs 
and  two  cupf  uls  of  milk  and  add  enough  bread- 
crumbs or  flour  to  make  a  smooth  thick  batter. 
Dip  each  piece  of  celery  twice  into  the  batter 
and  fry  brown  in  deep  ^t.  Serve  with  Tomato 
Sauce  if  desired. 

CELERY  SAUXi 

Cut  two  heads  of  celery  into  short  lengths  and 
soak  them  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour.  Par- 
boil for  five  minutes  in  salted  water,  drain,  and 
dry.  Chop  fine  a  very  small  onion  and  fry  it 
soft  in  butter.  Fry  the  celery  brown  with  the 
onion,  take  up  carefully,  and  serve. 

CELERY  FRITTERS 

Make  a  batter  of  two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  milk, 
a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  cupful 
of  flour,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Boil  until  tender 
in  salted  water  stalks  of  celery  cut  into  four- 
inch  lengths,  drain,  cool,  and  dry.    Dip  in  batter. 


154  Dow  to  OoolK  VtgMMCB 

fry  in  deep  fat,  dndn,  and  serve  with 
Sauoe. 

STEWED  CELERY— I 

Parboil  eight  heads  of  celery,  drain,  and  finish 
cooking  in  stock  to  cover  with  a  small  slice  of 
salt  pork  for  each  head  of  celery.  Drain,  skim 
the  cooking  liquid,  and  thicken  with  flour  cooked 
in  batter.  Arrange  the  celery  and  pork  alter- 
nately on  the  serving-dish,  pour  over  the  sauce, 
and  serve. 

STEWED  CELERY— II 

Cut  cleaned  celery  stalks  into  three-inch 
lengths  and  cook  until  tender  in  stock  to  cover, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  minced  parsley,  and 
grated  onion.  Drain,  strain  the  liquid,  and 
thicken  with  flour  browned  in  butter.  Reheat 
the  celery  in  the  sauce,  and  serve.  The  onion 
and  parsley  may  be  omitted. 

STEWED  CELERY— III 

Boil  short  stalks  of  celery  until  tender  in 
salted  water  to  cover.  Drain  and  reheat  in 
White  Sauce,  adding  a  little  of  the  cooking 
liquid,  or  in  Butter  Sauce  or  in  Brown  Sauce. 

STEWED  CELERY— IV 

Cut  into  inch-lengths  enough  celery  to  make  a 
quart.  Cover  with  boiling  salted  water  and 
oook  slowly  for  half  an  hour.     Drain  the  celery 


Sbfrti^Vwo  mnfi  to  Cooft  delete     X55 

and  strain  the  cooking  liquid.  Thicken  one 
cupful  of  the  liquid  with  a  tablespoonful  each  of 
butter  and  flour  cooked  together,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  reheat  the  drained  celery  in 
the  sauce,  and  serve.  Add  a  little  cream  to  the 
sauce  if  desired. 

STEWED  CELERY— V 

Clean  and  trim  a  few  heads  of  celery,  scald, 
drain,  and  blanch  in  cold  water.  Drain  and 
cook  until  tender  in  stock,  seasoning  with  a 
little  sugar.  Thicken  the  sauce  with  flour  cooked 
in  butter,  add  a  little  cream,  and  serve. 

CELERY  STEWED  WITH  CREAM 

Cut  cleaned  celery  into  short  lengths  and  cook 
slowly  until  tender  in  white  stock  or  water. 
Drain,  season,  moisten  with  cream,  and  serve. 

BROWN  STEW  OF  CELERY 

Parboil  six-inch  stalks  of  celery  in  salted  water 
for  five  minutes,  drain,  and  cool.  Brown  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  butter,  add  two  cup- 
fuls  of  stock,  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
nutmeg,  and  cook  the  celery  slowly  in  the  sauce 
until  tender.  Arrange  the  celery  evenly  on  the 
serving-dish,  strain  the  sauce  over,  and  serve. 

CELERY  WITH  BREAD  SAUCE 

Boil  four  heads  of  celery  until  tender  in  salted 


146  f)ow  to  dooft  lt)e0etable0 

slightly  beaten  yolks  of  fotir  eggs,  one-fourth 
cupful  of  olive-oil,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls 
each  of  salt,  dry  mustard  and  sugar,  and  a  pinch 
of  paprika.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  vinegar  and  a 
few  drops  of  onion- juice.  Cook  over  hot  water 
until  smooth  and  thick,  take  from  the  fire,  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  one 
teaspoonful  each  of  minced  parsley  and  curry 
powder.  Pour  over  the  hot  catdiflower  and 
serve. 

CAULIFLOWER  A  L'ESPAGNOLE 

Boil  two  heads  of  cauliflower,  drain,  separate 
into  flowerets  and  fry  partially  in  seasoned  oil. 
Take  up  and  fry  a  small  chopx)ed  onion  in  the 
same  fat.  Add  two  cupfuls  of  Espagnole  Sauce, 
a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  the  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Pour  over  the  cauliflower  and 
serve. 

CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN— I 

Boil  flowerets  of  cauliflower  in  salted  water 
until  nearly  done  and  drain.  Arrange  in  layers 
in  a  buttered  baking-dish,  with  Cream  Sauce 
between  the  layers  and  sprinkling  each  layer 
thickly  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  When 
the  dish  is  full,  cover  with  sauce,  sprinkle  with 
cheese  and  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  brown 
in  the  oven.  Serve  in  the  baking-dish.  Or  use 
milk,  crumbs,  and  bits  of  butter  between  the 
layers  instead  of  Cream  Sauce. 


yottiS«iViine  TDSla^  to  Coofi  Caunf(owet    147 

CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Caviliilower — I.  Drain,  and  put  into 
a  deep  baking-dish.  Sprinkle  thickly  with 
grated  cheese,  pour  over  a  Bechamel  Sauce, 
brown  in  the  oven,  and  serve  in  the  same 
dish. 

CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN— III 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Catdiflower— I,  and  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Make  half  a  cupful  of  Drawn-Butter  Sauce,  and 
add  to  it  one  tablespoonful  of  cream  and  one 
or  two  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Put  half  the 
cauliflower  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  spread 
with  the  sauce,  fill  the  dish,  and  cover  with 
sauce.  Sprinkle  with  crtunbs  and  cheese,  dot 
with  butter,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven,  or  cut  the  cauliflower  into  quarters, 
pour  over  the  sauce,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  or 
cheese,  and  bake. 

CAULIFLOWER  k  LA  HONGROISE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I.  Drain,  separate  into 
flowerets,  and  arrange  in  a  buttered  baking-dish. 
Chop  a  small  onion  fine  and  fry  it  in  butter 
with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  stale  bread-crumbs. 
Cook  tmtil  brown,  spread  over  the  cauliflower, 
and  serve  immediately. 


X48  f)ow  to  Coofi  Il^e0etab(e0 

CAULIFLOWER  A  L'lTALIENNE 

Prepare  two  small  heads  of  cauliflower  ac- 
cording to  directions  given  for  Boiled  Cauliflower 
— I.  Drain  and  put  into  a  baking-dish.  Bring 
to  the  boil  one  cupful  of  white  stock  and  half  a 
cupftil  of  cream.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  grated  cheese.  Stir  the  sauce  over  the  fire 
until  thick,  pour  over  the  cauliflower,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  crumbs,  and  grated  cheese, 
and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

CAULIFLOWER  X  LA  MAITRE  D'HOtEL 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I.  Drain,  and  serve  with 
Maltre  d'H6tel  Sauce. 

CAULIFLOWER  k  LA  MAY  IRWIN 

Cook  a  large  head  of  cauliflower  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender.  Break  into  flowerets 
and  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish.  Sprinkle 
thickly  with  grated  cheese,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  ^ry  mustard,  and  bake  brown 
in  the  oven.  Moisten  with  melted  butter  if 
desired. 

CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  PARMESAN— I 

Prepare  a  cauliflower  according  to  directions 
given  for  Cabbage  au  Gratin — I,  using  Parmesan 
cheese. 


fottj^Wnc  TiOlaes  to  Cook  Cauliflower    149 

CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  PARMESAN— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I,  and  cook  until  tender  in 
boiling  salted  water  to  cover,  adding  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  butter  and  a  little  pepper  to  the  liquid. 
Drain  upside  down,  then  put  on  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  to  be  served.  Reheat  one  cupful 
of  Velout^  Sauce  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  the  beaten  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  salt, 
pepper,  and  lemon- juice  to  season.  Do  not  allow 
the  sauce  to  boil.  Spread  the  sauce  over  the  cau- 
liflower, sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
bake  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  serve.  A  pint  of 
Bechamel  Sauce  may  be  used  and  the  lemon- 
juice  omitted.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and 
grated  cheese  and  bake. 

CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  POULETTE 

Boil  a  cauliflower  and  drain.  Make  a  sauce  of 
one  cupful  and  a  half  of  the  cooking  liquid, 
thickened  with  a  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of 
butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Take  from 
the  fire,  and  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water  or  stock.  Heat 
thoroughly  but  do  not  boil,  pour  over  the 
cauliflower,  and  serve. 

CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  PARISIENNE 

Boil  a  large  cauliflower  until  tender,  drain, 
chop,  and  press  hard  into  a  mould.    Turn  out 


ISO  Dow  to  dooli  iDeoetablcd 

on  a  platter  that  will  stand  the  heat  of  the  oven. 
Cook  together  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter 
and  flour,  add  two  cupfuls  of  stewed  and  strained 
tomatoes,  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Season  with  salt,  pepx)er,  and  grated 
onion.  Add  enough  cracker-crumbs  to  make 
the  sauce  very  thick.  Spread  over  the  cauli- 
flower, put  it  into  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes, 
and  serve. 

CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  TARTARE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Cauliflower — I.  Drain,  cool  in  ice- water, 
drain  again,  pour  over  a  Tartar  Sauce  and  serve. 


THIRTY-TWO   WAYS   TO   COOK 

CELERY 

BOILED  CELERY— I 

Cut  cleaned  and  trimmed  stalks  of  celery  into 
short  lengths  and  boil  slowly  in  salted  water  to 
cover  until  tender.  Drain  and  serve  on  slices 
of  toast  which  have  been  dipped  in  the  liquid. 
Pour  over  a  little  melted  butter,  season,  and 
serve. 

BOILED  CELERY— II 

Tie  cleaned  and  trimmed  stalks  of  celery  in 
bunches  with  string.  Cover  with  boiling  salted 
water,  add  a  chopped  onion,  a  little  mace,  and 
two  or  three  pepper-corns.  Cook  slowly  until 
done,  drain  the  celery,  remove  the  strings,  and 
arrange  on  a  serving-dish.  Strain  the  liquid 
and  reserve  enough  of  it  to  make  a  sauce. 
Thicken  with  flour  cooked  in  butter,  take  from 
the  fire,  and  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with 
the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Pour  over  the  celery  and 
serve.  Less  lemon- juice  may  be  used  in  the 
sauce  if  desired. 

BAKED  CELERY 

Parboil    and    drain    eight    heads    of    celery. 

151 


153  Dow  to  aooft  Ve0etabIe0 

Finish  cooking  in  white  stock  with  a  slice  of 
salt  pork  and  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg 
to  season.  Drain,  strain,  and  skim  the  cooking 
liquid  and  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  each 
of  butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Take  the 
sauce  &om  the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  and  half  a  cupful  of  grated  Swiss  cheese. 
Put  the  celery  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
cover  with  the  sauce,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and 
cheese,  and  bake  for  ten  minutes  in  a  brisk  oven. 

BRAISED  CELERY 

Trim  bunches  of  celery,  tie  in  btmdles,  parboil 
for  ten  minutes,  drain,  and  cover  with  cold  water. 
Let  stand  for  ten  minutes,  drain,  cover  with 
white  stock,  and  simmer  for  an  hour.  Drain, 
pour  over  Brown  Sauce,  and  serve  with  a  garnish 
of  toast  points  or  croiltons. 

BRAISED  CELERY,  ESPAGNOLE 

Parboil,  drain,  and  cool  tender  stalks  of  oelery 
cut  into  short  lengths.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with 
stock  to  cover,  and  onion,  carrot,  and  parsley 
to  season.  Cover  and  cook  for  an  hotur  in  the 
oven,  adding  more  stock  if  required.  Take  out 
the  celery,  strain  and  skim  the  stock  and  thicken 
it  with  a  little  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  cold  water. 
Pour  the  gravy  over  the  celery  and  serve. 

FRIED  CELERY— I 

Parboil,  drain,  dry,  and  cool  stalks  of  oelery 


tMtt^fSv^  Tnune0  to  oooft  aeievs     153 

cut  into  short  lengths.  Dip  into  melted  butter 
and  fry  brown,  or  dip  into  fitter  batter,  or  in 
^;g  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Olive- 
oil  may  be  used  for  frying.  Serve  with  melted 
butter  or  Brown  Sauce,  or  with  a  sprinkle  of 
grated  cheese. 

FRIED  CELERY— II 

Cut  cleaned  celery  stalks  into  f  our-iach  lengths 
and  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water  to  cover. 
Drain,  cool,  and  dry.  Beat  together  three  eggs 
and  two  cupf  uls  of  milk  and  add  enough  bread- 
cnunbs  or  flour  to  make  a  smooth  thick  batter. 
Dip  each  piece  of  celery  twice  into  the  batter 
and  fry  brown  in  deep  fat.  Serve  with  Tomato 
Sauce  if  desired. 

CELERY  SAUT^ 

Cut  two  heads  of  celery  into  short  lengths  and 
soak  them  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour.  Par- 
boil for  five  minutes  in  salted  water,  drain,  and 
dry.  Chop  fine  a  very  small  onion  and  fry  it 
soft  in  butter.  Fry  the  celery  brown  with  the 
onion,  take  up  carefully,  and  serve. 

CELERY  FRITTERS 

Make  a  batter  of  two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  milk, 
a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  cupful 
of  flour,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Boil  until  tender 
in  salted  water  stalks  of  celery  cut  into  four- 
inch  lengths,  drain,  cool,  and  dry.    Dip  in  batter. 


154  Dow  to  (SooR  iDegetabled 

fry  in  deep  fat,  drain,  and  serve  with  Hollandaise 
Sauce. 

STEWED  CELERY— I 

Parboil  eight  heads  of  celery,  drain,  and  finish 
cooking  in  stock  to  cover  with  a  small  slice  of 
salt  pork  for  each  head  of  celery.  Drain,  skim 
the  cooking  liquid,  and  thicken  with  flour  cooked 
in  butter.  Arrange  the  celery  and  pork  alter- 
nately on  the  serving-dish,  pour  over  the  sauce, 
and  serve. 

STEWED  CELERY— II 

Cut  cleaned  celery  stalks  into  three-inch 
lengths  and  cook  until  tender  in  stock  to  cover, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  minced  parsley,  and 
grated  onion.  Drain,  strain  the  liquid,  and 
thicken  with  flour  browned  in  butter.  Reheat 
the  celery  in  the  sauce,  and  serve.  The  onion 
and  parsley  may  be  omitted. 

STEWED  CELERY— III 

Boil  short  stalks  of  celery  until  tender  in 
salted  water  to  cover.  Drain  and  reheat  in 
White  Sauce,  adding  a  little  of  the  cooking 
liquid,  or  in  Butter  Sauce  or  in  Brown  Sauce. 

STEWED  CELERY— IV 

Cut  into  inch-lengths  enough  celery  to  make  a 
quart.  Cover  with  boiling  salted  water  and 
oook  slowly  for  half  an  hour.     Drain  the  celery 


Vbittg*Zx90  iniai20  to  Cocit  Celets     155 

and  strain  the  cooking  liquid.  Thicken  one 
cupful  of  the  liquid  with  a  tablespoonf ul  each  of 
butter  and  flour  cooked  together,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  reheat  the  drained  celery  in 
the  sauce,  and  serve.  Add  a  little  cream  to  the 
sauce  if  desired. 

STEWED  CELERY— -V 

Clean  and  trim  a  few  heads  of  celery,  scald, 
drain,  and  blanch  in  cold  water.  Drain  and 
cook  until  tender  in  stock,  seasoning  with  a 
little  sugar.  Thicken  the  sauce  with  flour  cooked 
in  butter,  add  a  little  cream,  and  serve. 

CELERY  STEWED  WITH  CREAM 

Cut  cleaned  celery  into  short  lengths  and  cook 
slowly  until  tender  in  white  stock  or  water. 
Drain,  season,  moisten  with  cream,  and  serve. 

BROWN  STEW  OF  CELERY 

Parboil  six-inch  stalks  of  celery  in  salted  water 
for  five  minutes,  drain,  and  cool.  Brown  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  butter,  add  two  cup- 
fuls  of  stock,  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
nutmeg,  and  cook  the  celery  slowly  in  the  sauce 
until  tender.  Arrange  the  celery  evenly  on  the 
serving-dish,  strain  the  sauce  over,  and  serve. 

CELERY  WITH  BREAD  SAUCE 

Boil  four  heads  of  celery  until  tender  in  salted 


156  1)0VP  to  COOft  IDCQetUblCB 

water  to  cover,  and  drain.  Boil  a  sliced  onio^  un- 
til tender  in  a  pint  of  milk,  strain  the  milk  and 
cook  in  it  enough  soft  bread-crumbs  to  make  a 
smooth  sauce.  Cut  the  celery  into  short  lengths 
and  reheat  in  the  sauce,  seasoning  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

CELERY  IN  BROWN  SAUCE— I 

Clean  and  trim  three  heads  of  celery  and  cut 
into  four-inch  lengths.  Cover  with  boiling  wa- 
ter, let  stand  for  ten  minutes,  drain,  and  rinse 
in  cold  water.  Tie  in  bundles  and  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  three  cupfuls  of  hot  stock.  Add 
one-fourth  cupful  of  butter  or  drippings,  half  a 
carrot,  half  an  onion,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a 
little  cayenne  pepper.  Cover  and  simmer  until 
tender.  Drain  the  celery,  strain  the  liquid, 
skim  off  the  fat,  and  thicken  a  cupful  or  more  of 
the  cooking  liquid  with  flovir  browned  in  butter. 
Arrange  the  celery  on  toast,  pour  the  sauce 
over,  and  serve. 

CELERY  IN  BROWN  SAUCE— II 

Cut  cleaned  celery  stalks  into  short  lengths, 
cook  tmtil  tender  in  stock  to  cover,  drain,  and 
reheat  in  Brown  Butter  Sauce. 

CELERY  IN  VELOUTEf  SAUCE 

Boil  short  stalks  of  celery  until  tender  in 
salted  water  to  cover,  drain,  and  reheat  in  a 


tCbirtiS-tCwo  lRllas6  to  Coolt  Celeci?     157 

Velout^   Sauce,  adding  more   butter,  or  serve 
with  HoUandaise  Sauce. 

CELERY  IN  WHITE  SAUCE 

Parboil  trimmed  celery  cut  in  short  lengths 
in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  cover 
with  veal  stock,  and  cook  until  tender,  adding  a 
little  milk  as  the  stock  boils  away.  Thicken 
the  cooking  liquid  with  flour  cooked  in  butter. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  heat  thoroughly, 
and  serve. 

CREAMED  CELERY 

Clean,  trim,  and  cut  the  celery  into  short  pieces. 
Boil  until  tender  in  salted  water,  drain,  and  reheat 
in  a  Cream  Sauce.  Sprinkle  with  grated  nutmeg 
if  desired.  Diced  cooked  carrots  may  be  added 
to  Creamed  Celery. 

CREAMED  CELERY  IN  CHEESE  SHELL 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Creamed  Celery  and  fill  the  shell  of  an  Edam 
or  pineapple  cheese.  Cover  with  crumbs,  dot 
with  butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Parboiled 
oysters  may  be  mixed  with  the  celery  if  desired, 
and  the  oyster  liquor  used  for  part  of  the  liquid 
in  making  the  sauce. 

ESCALLOPED  CELERY 

Chop  celery  very  fine  or  cut  in  half-inch  lengths 
and  cook  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water  to 


153  i>ow  to  aooft  Vegetables 

cover.  Drain  and  reheat  in  a  Cream  or  White 
Sauce.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  in 
layers,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  grated  cheese 
or  crumbs  or  both  crumbs  and  grated  cheese. 
Have  crumbs  and  cheese  on  top,  dot  with 
butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Oysters  also 
may  be  put  between  the  layers. 

FRICASSEE  OP  CELERY 

Clean  and  cut  the  celery  into  inch-lengths. 
Cover  with  cold  water  and  soak  for  an  hour. 
Drain,  and  cook  until  tender  in  stock  to  cover 
with  salt  and  paprika  to  season  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  grated  onion.  When  tender,  thicken  the 
cooking  liquid  with  flour  browned  in  butter,  and 
serve. 

PUREE  OP  CELERY 

Cut  into  small  pieces  four  heads  of  celery 
and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  sliced  onion, 
half  a  cupful  of  butter,  and  two  cupfuls  of  milk. 
Simmer  slowly  until  tender,  then  add  half  a 
cupful  of  flour,  made  smooth  with  a  little  cold 
milk,  and  cook  until  smooth  and  thick,  stirring 
constantly.  Press  through  a  pur6e  sieve,  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  butter,  and 
moisten  to  the  proper  consistency  with  cream. 
Serve  with  a  border  of  mutton  chops. 

CELERY  SLAW 

Mix  two  cupfuls  of  finely  cut  celery  with  the 


JCbiiV^tlxoo  Ws^  to  dooit  (telets     159 

beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  tablespoonful  each  of 
butter,  cream,  and  vinegar,  a  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, cover  tightly,  and  keep  hot  without 
cooking  for  twenty  minutes.  Serve  either  hot 
or  cold. 

CELERY  AU  GRATIN 

Cut  two  bunches  of  celery  into  inch-lengths  and 
cook  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water.  Drain, 
mix  with  Cream  Sauce,  cool,  and  add  two  well- 
beaten  eggs.  Pour  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and 
bake  for  half  an  hour. 

CELERY  A  L'lTALIENNE 

Trim  off  the  tops  and  roots  from  four  heads  of 
celery.  Cut  the  stalks  into  short  lengths, 
parboil,  and  drain.  Reheat  with  a  cupful  of 
white  stock,  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and 
chopped  ham,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
When  tender,  strain  the  sauce  and  arrange  the 
celery  on  pieces  of  toast.  Add  to  the  sauce  a 
tablespoonful  of  grated  cheese  and  the  beaten 
yolk  of  an  egg.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  celery 
and  bake  until  brown. 

CELERY  AU  JUS 

Cut  cleaned  stalks  of  celery  into  six-inch 
lengths,  cover  with  boiling  water,  let  stand  for 
five  minutes,  and  drain.     Line  a  saucepan  with 


i6o  f)ow  to  Cooft  tDegetabled 

thin  slices  of  bacon,  put  in  the  celery,  and  add 
four  tablespoonfuls  each  of  Spanish  Sauce  and 
stock.  Cover  tightly,  simmer  for  forty-five 
minutes,  take  up  the  celery,  strain  the  sauce  over 
it  and  serve. 

CELERY  A  LA  POULETTE 

Cut  two  heads  of  celery  into  short  lengths  and 
cook  until  tender  in  well-seasoned  stock  or 
boiling  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  and  strain 
the  liquid.  Thicken  two  cupfuls  of  the  liquid 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together  and  reheat  the  celery  in  the 
sauce.  Add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten 
smooth  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Heat  thoroughly 
but  do  not  boil,  and  serve.  Add  more  cream 
if  the  sauce  is  too  thick. 

CELERY  X  LA  VILLEROY 

Clean  six  heads  of  celery,  cut  into  six-inch 
lengths,  parboil  for  ten  minutes,  drain,  and 
cover  with  cold  water.  Drain,  cover  with  white 
stock  and  cook  slowly  for  an  hour.  Drain  and 
dry.  Cover  with  AUemande  Sauce,  which  has 
been  boiled  down  until  it  is  very  thick  and  set 
away  to  cool.  Dip  in  crumbs,  then  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 


NINETEEN  WAYS  TO  COOK 
CHESTNUTS 

BOILED  CHESTNUTS 

Peel  off  the  outside  skins  of  the  chestnuts,  and 
let  the  nuts  stand  in  boiling  water  until  the  in- 
ner skin  can  be  easily  removed.  Cover  with  cold 
water  after  removing  the  skin.  Cook  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  in  butter  and  add  a  cupful  or 
more  of  clear  stock  according  to  the  quantity 
of  chestnuts,  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Put  the  chestnuts  into  the  sauce,  add 
salt  to  season,  and  simmer  until  soft,  or  drain, 
mash,  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Serve  as  a  vegetable  with  roasted  meat  or 
iwultry. 

BAKED  CHESTNUTS 

.Peel,  skin,  and  boil  until  tender  a  quart  of 
chestnuts.  Drain  and  mash  smooth.  Add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
season.  Pile  roughly  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  brown  in  the  oven,  and  serve  in  the  same 
dish. 

ROASTED  CHESTNUTS 

Remove   a   small  piece   of  shell   from  each 
XX  i6i 


z62  t>ow  to  (took  VcQetnblcs 

chestnut.  Boil  for  ten  minutes,  drain,  and  put 
into  the  oven  immediately.  Bake  tuitil  soft 
and  serve  hot  as  a  vegetable  in  a  folded  napkin, 
with  salt. 

PUREE  OF  CHESTNUTS— I 

Peel  and  boil  fifty  large  chestnuts.  Remove 
the  inner  skin  as  soon  as  it  will  come  ofiE  easily. 
Put  the  drained  chestnuts  into  a  saucepan  with 
white  stock  to  cover  and  boil  slowly  until  soft. 
Press  through  a  sieve,  add  a  cupful  of  cream,  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  the  stock 
in  which  they  were  cooked,  and  salt,  pepper,  and 
sugar  to  season.  Heat  thoroughly  and  serve 
with  a  border  of  chops  or  cutlets. 

PUR]£e  of  chestnuts— II 

Peel  and  blanch  a  pound  of  large  chestnuts. 
Boil  slowly  until  soft  in  milk  or  salted  water 
to  coven  Drain,  mash,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  add  a  little  butter  and  enough  cream 
or  milk  to  make  it  of  the  proper  consistency. 
It  will  be  richer  if  the  chestnuts  are  boiled 
in  stock.  In  that  case  the  cream  may  be 
omitted. 

PUR]fiE  OF  CHESTNUTS— III 

Shell,  blanch,  and  boil  until  tender  one  quart 
of  chestnuts.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  each  of  cream  and  butter,  and 
salt,  paprika,  and  onion-juice  to  season. 


Vlineteen  WLVfts  to  Cooft  Cbcstnnte     163 

PUREE  OF  CHESTNUTS— IV 

Cook  a  quart  of  blanched  and  shelled  chestnuts 
in  stock  to  cover,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  pepper  and  nutmeg 
to  season.  Cover,  cook  until  soft,  press  through 
a  fine  sieve,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
and  enough  stock  to  make  it  of  the  proper 
consistency. 

STEWED  CHESTNUTS— I 

Peel,  boil,  and  blanch  the  chestnuts  and  cook 
slowly  in  stock  or  salted  water  to  cover  until 
soft.  Take  up  and  serve  in  a  vegetable  dish  with 
Cream  or  White  Sauce  poured  over  them. 

.    STEWED  CHESTNUTS— II 

Peel  and  blai^ch  a  pound  of  large  chestnuts. 
Cook  very  slowly  in  water  to  cover  until  nearly 
tender,  then  drain  and  reheat  in  stock  to  cover, 
adding  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar.  Simmer  until 
soft,  add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and 
serve  as  a  vegetable. 

STEWED  CHESTNUTS— III 

Peel,  blanch,  and  boil  a  quart  of  Italian  chest- 
nuts in  salted  water  until  tender.  Bum  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  light  brown  in  a  frjring- 
pan  and  add  a  cupful  of  stock.  Cook  the  chest- 
nuts in  this  for  fifteen  minutes,  seasoning  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Drain,  and  serve  with  a  border 
of  diced  cooked  carrots. 


x64  t>aw  to  Coofc  Ve0etabl€0 

CHESTNUT  CROQUETTES— I 

Sbell,  blanch,  and  boil  until  tender  enough 
chestnuts  to  make  a  pint.  Rub  through  a  sieve, 
season  with  salt,  red  pepper,  a  tablespoonftd  of 
butter,  and  onion-juice  or  lemon-juice.  Mix 
thoroughly,  shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg 
and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

CHESTNUT  CROQUETTES— II 

Mix  together  one  cupful  of  mashed  cooked 
chestnuts,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly  beaten, 
one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
Sherry  or  vanilla.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs,  shape  into  croquettes  or 
balls,  dip  in  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

CHESTNUT  CROQUETTES— III 

Boil,  peel,  and  skin  a  quart  of  Spanish  chest- 
nuts. Rub  through  a  colander  and  work  to  a 
paste  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  two  tablespoonftds  of  crumbs,  and  salt, 
paprika,  and  onion- juice  to  season.  Cook  over 
boiling  water  until  smooth  and  thick,  then  cool. 
Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
keep  on  ice  for  an  hour,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

CHESTNUT  CROQUETTES— IV 
Shell,  blanch,  and  boil  fifty  large  chestnuts. 


WnctcenJ/Uiw  to  Cooii  QbeetnntB    165 

Drain,  and  mash  very  fine.  Add  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  mix  thoroughly,  then  another 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
When  smooth  and  well  mixed,  add  enough  cream 
to  malce  a  stiff  paste.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  add 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  cook  in  a 
double  boiler  until  stifE,  and  cool.  Shape  into 
croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat. 

COMPOTE  OF  CHESTNUTS 

Peel  thirty  large  chestnuts,  cover  with  cold 
water,  and  cook  slowly  until  the  inner  skin  can 
be  removed.  Drain,  and  simmer  for  twenty 
minutes  in  a  syrup  made  of  a  cupful  of  water, 
half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  wineglassful  of  Sherry, 
and  the  rind  of  half  an  orange  or  lemon  cut  very 
thin.  Strain  the  syrup  over  the  chestnuts  and 
serve  hot. 

CHESTNUT  PUDDING 

Boil,  skin,  and  rub  through  a  sieve  enough 
chestnuts  to  make  a  cupful.  Add  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  a  tablespoonful  each  of 
melted  butter  and  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cracker  crumbs,  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  and  bake  covered  in  a  buttered  baking- 
dish  for  half  an  hour,  then  tmcover  and  brown. 
Serve  immediately. 


1 66  Dew  to  Oooft  Vcgctnbles 

CHESTNUTS  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE 

Peel  and  blanch  a  pound  of  chestnuts  and 
cook  until  tender  in  stock  to  cover.  Drain, 
thicken  one  cupful  of  the  cooking  liquid  with  a 
tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour  cooked 
together,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over 
the  chestnuts,  and  serve. 

CHESTNUTS  AND  RAISINS 

Peel,  blanch,  and  boil  a  quart  of  chestnuts.  In 
another  saucepan  cover  a  cupful  of  raisins  with 
cold  water,  add  two  bay-leaves  and  an  inch  of 
stick  cinnamon  and  boil  until  tender.  Take  out 
the  seasoning  and  add  the  raisins  to  the  chest- 
nuts. Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  butter  and  cook  slowly  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  wine, 
two  teaspoonf uls  of  sugar,  and  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  vinegar.  Thicken  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water. 
More  sugar  or  vinegar  can  be  added  if  desired. 

CHESTNUTS  AND  PRUNES 

Peel,  blanch,  and  boil  until  tender  one  pint  of 
chestnuts.  Boil  a  pint  of  prunes  until  tender  in 
water  to  cover,  and  drain,  reserving  the  liquid. 
Mix  the  prunes  and  chestnuts,  and  season  with 
sugar,  cinnamon,  and  lemon-juice.  Moisten  with 
stock  or  with  the  prune  liquid,  add  a  wineglass- 
ful  of  Sherry  and  serve  very  hot. 


EIGHTY-SEVEN     WAYS     TO     COOK 

CORN 

BOILED  CORN— I 

Remove  all  the  husk  except  the  inner  layer. 
Strip  the  inner  layer  back  far  enough  to  remove 
the  silk,  then  replace,  and  tie  at  the  upper  end. 
Boil  steadily  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in 
boiling  water  to  cover,  or  in  equal  parts  of  milk 
and  water.  Drain,  remove  the  strings,  and  serve 
immediately  in  the  husk. 

BOILED  CORN— II 

Strip  off  all  the  husks,  remove  the  silk,  and  boil 
rapidly  in  water  to  cover,  adding  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar;  serve  immediately  with  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt.  Butter  may  be  added  to  the 
water  instead  of  sugar;  it  whitens  and  en- 
riches the  com.  Or,  boil  in  salted  milk,  drain, 
and  serve  with  melted  butter. 

BOILED  CORN— III 

Cook  the  freshly  husked  ears  in  boiling  water 
to  cover,  adding  to  the  water  a  teaspoonful  each 

167 


1 68  l)ow  to  dooft  VcgctBblcB 

of  salt  and  sugar  and  a  bit  of  baking  soda. 
Cover  and  cook  rapidly  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes  and  serve  hot. 

BOILED  CORN— IV 

Leave  the  inner  husks  on  half  a  dozen  ears  of 
com  and  put  into  cold  water  with  an  even  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  three  of  sugar.  Bring  to 
the  boil,  cook  for  five  minutes,  and  serve. 

BROILED  CORN 

Split  the  cobs,  brush  with  melted  butter,  and 
broil  carefully.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  serve. 

BAKED  CORN 

Fill  a  baking-dish  with  husked  ears.  Pour 
over  a  pint  of  milk,  sprinkle  lightly  with  sugar, 
add  water  to  cover,  and  bake  for  forty-five 
minutes. 

BAKED  CANNED  CORN— I 

Pour  a  can  of  com  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  one  cupful 
of  boiling  milk  or  half  a  cupful  of  cream,  and 
dot  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  broken 
into  small  bits.  Bake  for  forty-five  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven,  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. 

BAKED  CANNED  CORN— II 

Mix  together  one  can  of  corn,  one  ^gg  well 


JEfabtS'Seven  TDdlai^  to  Cooli  Com     169 

beaten,  one  cupful  of  cream,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  'grated 
cheese  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 

CREAMED  CANNED  CORN 

Reheat  a  can  of  com  with  half  a  cupful  cf 
Cream  Sauce  and  serve  very  hot,  or  reheat  with 
enough  cream  to  moisten  and  season,  with 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

CREAMED  HULLED  CORN 

Reheat  two  cupfuls  of  hulled  com  in  a  Cream 
Sauce.  If  desired  put  it  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish  and  bake,  with  crumbs,  grated  cheese,  and 
butter  on  top. 

CREAMED  CORN— I 

Remove  the  husks  and  score  each  row  of 
kernels  deeply  with  a  sharp  knife.  Press  out 
the  pulp  with  the  back  of  the  knife.  Cook  for 
ten  minutes  in  a  double  boiler,  seasoning  with 
salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  cream,  or  use  cooked 
com,  grated.  A  little  sugar  may  be  added  to  the 
seasoning. 

CREAMED  CORN—II 

Cut  the  com  from  six  or  eight  cobs  and  cook 
for  ten  minutes  in  milk  to  cover,  adding  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
little    pepper,   and    a  tablespoonful   of  butter, 


I70  Dow  to  Cooft  VcgetnblcB 

blended  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour.    Cook  tintfl 
smooth  and  thick,  stirring  constantly. 

ESCALLOPED  CORN— I 

Butter  a  baking-dish  and  put  in  a  layer  of 
cracker  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  canned  com, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter, 
cover  with  cracker  crumbs  and  repeat  until  the 
dish  is  full,  having  crumbs  on  top.  Pour  in 
enough  milk  to  fill  the  dish  and  bake  for  forty- 
five  minutes. 

ESCALLOPED  CORN— II 

Rub  a  can  of  com  through  a  sieve.  Season 
it  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar,  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  fiour,  blended  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  and  half  a  cupful  of  the 
liquid  drained  from  the  com.  Put  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish,  cover  with  crumbs,  dot 
with  butter,  and  bake  for  twenty  nunutes. 

ESCALLOPED  CORN— III 

Use  the  com  pulp  from  half  a  dozen  ears 
of  com  or  one  can  of  com.  Add  half  a 
cupful  of  crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  cream, 
one  egg  well  beaten,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
season.  Fill  buttered  ramekins,  cover  with 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  for  ten 
minutes. 


Bi0btiS«Seven  TRIlai^  to  Oooft  Com     171 

ESCALLOPED  CORN  AND  TOMATOES 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  each  of  tomatoes  and 
cooked  com  cut  from  the  cob  or  canned  com. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  sugar,  and 
potir  into  a  buttered  baking-dish.  Cover  with 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  for  half  an 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  in  the  same 
dish. 

FRIED  CORN— I 

Cut  raw  or  cooked  com  from  the  cobs  and  fry 
brown  in  as  little  butter  as  possible.  Take 
from  the  fire,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  a 
little  cream,  and  serve. 

FRIED  CORN— II 

Add  half  a  cupful  of  milk  to  two  cupfuls  of 
com  pulp  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Put  into  a  frying- 
pan  and  cook  until  tender,  then  fry  golden 
brown.  Canned  com  may  be  used  in  the  same 
way. 

INDIAN  CORN  CAKES 

Grate  from  the  cob  on  a  coarse  grater 
enough  com  to  make  two  cupfuls.  Add  a 
cupful  of  milk,  half  a  cupful  of  sifted  flour, 
one  egg  well  beaten,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
season.  Bake  on  a  griddle  and  serve  with 
fried  chicken. 


173  Dow  to  Cook  10CQCUbl€§ 

CORN  DROPS 

Mix  together  one  can  of  com,  three  eggB  well 
beaten,  a  tablespoon! ul  each  of  sugar,  flour,  and 
butter,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  season  highly. 
Drop  into  well-buttered  gem-pans  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour. 

CORN  DAINTY 

Run  a  can  of  com  through  a  meat-chopper. 
Season  the  pulp  with  salt,  sugar,  and  pepper, 
and  heat  thoroughly  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter.  Add  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  bake 
in  the  oven  until  pufiEed  and  brown.  Fold  in 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  last.  Four  ^gs  and  a 
teaspoonf  ul  of  butter  may  be  used. 

CORN  CUSTARD 

Mix  thoroughly  one  cupful  of  freshly  grated 
com,  four  eggs  slightly  beaten,  one  and  one- 
fotirth  cupfuls  of  milk,  and  salt,  paprika,  and 
onion-juice  to  season.  Turn  into  sn:iall  buttered 
moulds  and  bake  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  When 
firm,  turn  out,  surround  with  a  border  of  broiled 
tomatoes,  and  serve  with  Cream  Sauce. 

CORN  CHOWDER 

Score  each  row  of  kernels  on  half  a  dozen  ears 
of  com  and  press  out  the  pvilp  with  the  back  of  a 
knife.  Peel  and  slice  an  onion  and  two  potatoes. 
Put  the  potatoes  into  a  saucepan,  then  the  onion. 


iBigbt^i^ScPCn  mws»  to  Cook  (torn     173 

then  the  com.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add 
half  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  slowly  for 
twenty  minutes.  Add  a  cupful  of  cream  to  the 
chowder  and  three  pounded  crackers.  Bring 
to  the  boil  and  thicken  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
beaten  smooth  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cream. 
Serve  immediately. 

CREOLE  CORN  CHOWDER 

Slice  three  onions  and  fry  brown  in  butter. 
Add  three  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes,  three 
green  peppers,  seeded  and  chopped,  and  the 
com  cut  from  seven  cobs.  Cook  for  an  hour, 
adding  water  as  needed,  and  season  with  salt, 
sugar,  and  black  pepper. 

CORN  OMELET 

Grate  the  com  from  four  ears  and  cook  until 
tender  in  a  double  boiler,  moistening  as  little  as 
possible.  Beat  four  eggs  thoroughly,  add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and  bake  in  an  omelet 
pan.  When  ready  to  fold,  add  the  seasoned 
com,  and  turn  out  on  a  hot  platter. 

CORN  PORRIDGE 

Cut  from  the  cob  enough  com  to  make  two 
and  a  half  cupfuls.  Add  a  quart  of  milk  and 
cook  until  tender  in  a  double  boiler.  Add  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour 
and  cook  for  five  minutes  longer.  Add  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  bring  to  the  boil, 


' 


174  f)ow  to  Cook  Deoetabted 

and  serve  very  hot.     Season  with  sugar  and 
nutmeg  or  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

KENTUCKY  CORN  PATTIES 

Four  large  ears  of  com  grated,  two  eggs,  one 
cupful  of  milk,  and  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of 
flour  sifted  with  a  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  thoroughly  and  fry  in 
small  flat  cakes. 

MASHED  CORN 

Wash  and  drain  one  quart  of  fresh  com  cut 
from  the  cob.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  a  bunch  of  thyme,  two 
small  onions,  a  sliced  carrot,  two  or  three  cloves, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Boil  the  com 
until  tender,  then  remove  the  thyme,  onions, 
carrot,  and  cloves.  Mash  the  com  through  a 
sieve,  and  reheat  with  a  little  butter,  adding 
cream  or  stock  for  liquid.     Serve  very  hot, 

ROASTED  CORN— I 

Remove  the  silks  and  husks  from  a  dozen  ears 
of  com,  rub  them  with  butter,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  lay  in  a  dripping-pan,  and  roast, 
turning  frequently  so  that  they  may  cook  evenly. 
Serve  as  soon  as  the  ears  are  brown. 

ROASTED  CORN— II 

Strip  all  the  husk  and  silk  from  green  com  and 
roast  the  com  on  a  gridiron  over  coals,  turning 


BigbtSiiSeven  WtiW  to  Cook  Com    175 

it  when  one  side  is  done.     Serve  with  melted 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

ROASTED  CORN— III 

Strip  all  the  husks  from  the  ears  except  the 
last  layer.  Lay  the  com  in  hot  wood  ashes, 
cover,  and  roast  until  done.  Serve  with  plenty 
of  melted  butter. 

CORN  AND  TOMATOES 

Cook  together  for  half  an  hour  the  com  grated 
from  six  ears  with  four  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes. 
Add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  sugar  and  onion-juice,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Simmer  for  five  minutes 
longer  and  serve  very  hot.  The  onion-juice 
may  be  omitted. 

CORN  AND  POTATOES 

Cut  cold  cooked  corn  from  the  cob  and  mix  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  chopped  cooked  potatoes. 
Reheat  in  butter  or  drippings  and  serve  very 
hot. 

CORN  TIMBALES 

Beat  six  eggs  slightly,  add  one  and  one-half 
cupfuls  of  milk,  two  cupfuls  of  grated  com,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Mix  thoroughly, 
and  fill  buttered  timbale  moulds  two-thirds  full. 
Put  into  a  baking-pan,  pour  boiling  water 
arotmd  them,  cover  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 


' 


176  1>ow  to  Cook  Vegetablea 

until  the  centres  are  firm.     Turn  out  carefully 
and  serve  with  Cream  Sauce. 

STEWED  CORN— I 

Cut  cooked  com  from  the  cob  and  reheat  in  a 
double  boiler,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter,  and  adding  milk  to  moisten. 

STEWED  CORN— II 

Cut  the  com  from  half  a  dozen  ears,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  and  cook  for  half  an  hour, 
stirring  frequently.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
butter,  and  cream,  and  serve  very  hot.  Canned 
com  may  be  used. 

STEWED  CORN— III 

Cut  the  kernels  from  a  dozen  ears  of  com  and 
cook  in  a  saucepan  with  enough  water  to  keep 
from  burning.  Add  a  cupful  of  milk  or  cream,  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  pepper  and  salt  to 
season.  Cook  ten  minutes  longer  and  serve. 
Equal  parts  of  tomatoes  and  com  may  be  used, 
adding  a  tiny  pinch  of  soda  to  the  tomatoes,  and 
a  little  onion-juice  to  the  seasoning  if  desired. 

STEWED  CORN— IV 

Cut  the  com  from  a  dozen  cobs  with  a  sharp 
knife  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  in  boiling  salted 
water  to  cover.  Drain,  and  reheat  in  a  cupful 
of  milk,  adding  a  tiny  pinch  of  soda.  Cook  ten 
minutes  longer,  and  thicken  with  a  teaspoonf ul 


Bidbti?«iSeven  TKIlase  to  Cook  com     177 

of  flour  rubbed  smooth  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Or,  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until 
done.  Drain,  and  season  with  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt. 

STEWED  CORN— V 

Cut  com  from  the  cob  and  cook  slowly  for 
fifteen  minutes  in  boiling  water  to  cover.  Drain, 
cover  with  cold  milk,  and  finish  cooking.  Thicken 
with  butter  rolled  in  flour,  season  to  taste,  and 
serve. 

STEWED  CORN— VI 

Remove  the  pulp  from  six  ears  of  com.  Add  a 
cupful  of  milk,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Cook  for  half  an  hour,  then  add  one  egg  well 
beaten.  Cook  until  smooth  and  creamy,  and 
serve  immediately.  Canned  com  may  be  used  in 
the  same  way. 

CORN  STEWED  WITH  CREAM 

Cut  the  com  from  half  a  dozen  ears  with  a 
sharp  knife.  Reheat  in  a  cupful  of  Bechamel 
Sauce,  adding  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  butter  and  enough 
cream  to  make  the  stew  of  the  proper  consist- 
ency. Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
nutmeg.     Serve  very  hot. 

STEWED  CORN  AND  TOMATOES 

Sinmier    together    a    cupful    of    peeled    and 


1 73  130W  to  Cool{  IDegetablcd 

chopped  tomatoes  and  a  cupful  of  grated  com. 
Cook  for  twenty  minutes,  season  to  taste,  and 
serve.  If  there  is  much  liqviid  in  the  stew  thicken 
with  butter  worked  in  flour. 

STEWED  CORN  A  LA  VIRGINIA 

Score  the  kernels  deeply  and  press  out  the 
pulp  from  tender  ears  of  com.  Cover  the  cobs 
with  cold  water  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes. 
Strain  the  liquid,  put  in  the  corn  pulp,  and  cook 
for  a  few  minutes,  seasoning  with  pepper,  salt, 
butter,  and  cream.  A  little  sugar  may  be  added 
if  desired. 

CORN  S0UFFL6— I 

Score  each  row  of  kernels  deeply  and  press  out 
the  pulp  with  the  back  of  a  knife,  using  enough 
com  to  make  one  cupful  of  pulp.  Add  one  cup- 
ful of  cream  or  top  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs  well  beaten.  Cook  in  a  double 
boiler  until  smooth  and  creamy,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Take  from  the  fire,  cool,  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  fovu:  eggs,  turn  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish,  and  bake  for  twenty 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

CORN  SOUFFLlfe— II 

Make  a  cupful  of  Cream  Sauce  and  add  to  it 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Mix  with 
the  com  grated  from  four  large  ears.     Season 


£tobte«Seven  XBUkXf^  to  Coofc  (torn     179 

with  salt,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  pour 
into  buttered  individual  dishes,  and  bake  for 
twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

CORN  S0UFFL6— III 

Grate  the  corn  from  a  dozen  ears.  Add  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted'  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
powdered  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix 
thoroughly,  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs,  and  a  tiny  pinch  of  soda.  Turn  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish,  cover,  and  bake  for  half 
an  hour.  Uncover,  brown  quickly,  and  serve 
immediately.  Canned  com  may  be  used  if 
it  is  rubbed  through  a  sieve. 

CORN  CROQUETTES— I 

Grate  enough  com  to  make  two  cupfuls  of 
pulp.  Add  one  cupful  of  cream  or  milk  and  cook 
for  twenty  minutes  in  a  double  boiler.  Add 
one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  grated 
cheese,  salt  and  pepper  to  season  highly,  and  one 
well-beaten  egg.  Cool  and  shape  into  cro- 
quettes, adding  cracker  crumbs  if  it  will  not 
shape  easily.  Dip  in  egg  and  crumbs  and  fry 
in  deep  fat  or  bake  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

CORN  CROQUETTES— II 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  grated  com,  one 
egg  well  beaten,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  sugar  and 
melted  butter  and  a  pinch  of  salt.     Add  enough 


i8o  f)ow  to  doofc  Vegetables 

flour  to  make  the  mixture  thick  enough  to  shape 
into  croquettes  or  balls.  Dredge  in  seasoned 
flour  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

CORN  CROQUETTES— III 

Grate  the  com  from  a  dozen  ears  or  drain  a  can 
of  com  and  press  the  pulp  through  a  sieve. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  powdered  sugar 
and  mix  with  a  little  very  thick  Cream  Sauce. 
Cool,  shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  keep  on  ice  until  firm.  Fry  in  deep 
fat. 

CORN  PUDDING— I 

Grate  the  com  from  a  dozen  ears,  add  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  a  tablespoonful 
each  of  melted  butter  and  sugar.  Add  four 
cupfuls  of  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt  and  fold  in 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Pour  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish  and  bake  covered  for 
half  an  hour,  then  uncover  and  brown.  Five 
eggs  will  do  if  another  tablespoonful  of  butter 
is  added. 

CORN  PUDDING— II 

Remove  the  husks  and  silk  from  a  dozen  ears 
of  com.  Score  each  row  of  kernels  with  a  sharp 
knife  and  press  out  the  pulp,  using  the  back 
of  the  knife.  Add  four  eggs,  the  yolks  and 
whites  beaten  separately,  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
sugar  and  flour  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of 


Bfdbts«Sei?en  Wnw  to  Coolt  Com     i8i 

melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and 
two  cupftds  of  milk.  Bake  from  half  to  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. 
The  sugar,  butter,  and  flour  may  be  omitted 
if  a  simpler  dish  is  desired. 

CORN  PUDDING— III 

Mix  three  cupfuls  of  milk  with  the  com  cut 
from  a  dozen  ears  and  chop  fine.  Add  four 
well-beaten  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and 
bake  in  a  buttered  baking-dish  for  two  hours. 

CORN  PUDDING— IV 

Grate  the  com  from  eight  ears,  add  four  well- 
beaten  eggs,  one  cupful  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful 
of  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  melted,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  season  highly.  Bake  until 
firm  in  a  buttered  baking-pan,  and  brown  on  top. 

CORN  PUDDING— V 

Slit  the  kernels  lengthwise  on  green  com  ears 
and  scrape  out  the  milk  and  pulp.  To  a  quart 
of  ptdp  add  three  beaten  eggs,  one  cupful  of  milk, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Beat  thoroughly,  pour 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and  bake  for  half 
an  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

CORN  PUDDING— VI 
Add  two  well-beaten  eggs  to  a  pint  of  strained 


i8a  1)ovp  to  cooft  !l^e0etat)le6 

com.  Season  with  salt  and  sugar,  add  two 
tablespoonf Ills  of  melted  butter  and  two  cupfuls 
of  milk.  Sprinkle  with  pepper  and  bake  in  a 
buttered  baking-dish  until  the  custard  is  firm. 
Serve  with  chops  or  roast  lamb. . 

CORN  PUDDING— VII 

Mix  together  two  cupf  uls  of  grated  com,  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  a  cupful  of  milk,  a  pinch  of 
soda,  and  a  tablespoonful  each  of  melted  butter 
and  sugar.  Butter  a  shallow  baking-dish,  pour 
in  the  corn,  cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter, 
and  bake  covered  for  half  an  hour,  then  uncover 
and  brown. 

CORN  PUDDING— VIII 

Mix  the  com  grated  from  a  dozen  ears  with  a 
cupful  of  cream,  a  tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar, 
and  salt  to  season.  Bake  for  an  hour  in  a 
buttered  baking-dish. 

BLUE  GRASS  CORN  PUDDING 

Grate  eight  ears  of  com  and  scrape  the  cob 
with  a  sharp  knife.  Add  three  eggs  thoroughly 
beaten,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  melted,  a  cupful  of  cream,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  season.  Bake  for  forty-five  minutes 
in  a  buttered  baking-dish. 

SOUTHERN  CORN  PUDDING 

Rub  a  can  of  com  through  a  sieve  and  add 


Bi0bti?«Sevcn  m«^  to  Cooft  Com     183 

two  eggs  slightly  beaten,  two  cupfuls  of  boiling 
milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  season  highly.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until 
firm. 

VIRGINIA  CORN  PUDDING 

Grate  the  pulp  from  a  dozen  ears  of  com,  add 
two  cupfuls  each  of  milk  and  cream,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  broken  into  small  bits,  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  bake  for  half  an 
hour  in  a  hot  oven,  stirring  every  five  minutes. 
Let  the  top  brown  before  serving. 

CORN  OYSTERS— I 

Score  each  row  of  kernels  and  press  out  the 
pulp  from  a  dozen  ears  of  corn.  Season  highly 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  four  eggs  beaten 
very  light.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  griddle  and 
fry  carefully,  turning  once. 

CORN  OYSTERS— II 

Prepare  two  cupfuls  of  fresh  com  pulp  ac- 
cording to  directions  previously  given.  Add 
the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  or  more  of  flour,  and  salt,  red 
and  black  pepper  to  season.  Add  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  butter  if  desired.  Fold  in  the  stifiiy 
beaten  whites  and  fry  by  tabtespoonfuls  in 
butter. 


i84  tioiv  to  Oooft  Ve0etal»le0 

CORN  OYSTERS— III 

Grate  eight  ears  of  com,  scrape  the  cobs,  and 
add  two  eggs  beaten  separately.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  enough  cracker  crumbs  to 
make  a  stiff  batter,  and  fry  by  spoonfuls  in  hot 
lard  or  drippings. 

CORN  OYSTERS— IV 

To  one  cupful  of  fresh  grated  corn  pulp  add 
one  beaten  egg  and  one  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  flour.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter 
if  desired.  Season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper, 
add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  and 
fry  by  teaspoonftils  in  hot  butter,  turning 
once.  If  the  mixture  does  not  hold  its  shape, 
use  two  eggs.  The  baking-powder  may  be 
omitted. 

CORN  OYSTERS— V 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  grated  com,  one 
cupful  of  flour,  half  a  cupful  of  melted  butter, 
three  tablespoonf  uls  of  milk,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  smson.    Fry  by  spoonfuls  in  deep  fat. 

CORN  OYSTERS— VI 

To  two  cupfuls  of  grated  com  pulp,  add 
enough  sifted  cracker  crumbs  to  hold  the  mix- 
ture together,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  season 
highly.  Add  also  half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking- 
powder.     Drop  by  teaspoonf uls  into  hot  fat,  mak- 


SidbtS'Seven  Wimsfi  to  (tooft  Com    185 

ing   the   fritters   the   size   of   an    oyster.     Fry 
golden  brown  and  serve  very  hot. 

CORN  FRITTERS— I 

Cut  a  cupful  of  com  from  the  cob,  add  a  cup- 
ful of  milk,  a  beaten  egg,  a  teaspoonful  or  more 
of  butter,  salt  to  season,  and  enough  flour  to 
make  a  batter.  Fry  in  small  cakes  in  very  hot 
butter.  Serve  with  butter  and  powdered  sugar. 
The  milk  and  butter  may  be  omitted  and  the 
mixture  dropped  by  spoonfuls  into  deep  fat. 
Two  cupf uls  of  com  may  be  used  instead  of  one. 

CORN  FRITTERS— II 

Mix  thoroughly  one  egg,  half  a  cupful  of 
cream,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and 
flour,  and  two  cupf  uls  of  grated  corn.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  into  deep  fat  and  fry  brown. 

CORN  FRITTERS— III 

Scrape  the  pulp  from  seven  ears  of  com.  Mix 
with  one  egg  well  beaten,  two  cupf  uls  of  milk, 
salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  flour  to  make  a 
batter,  allowing  one  teaspoonful  of  baking- 
powder  to  each  cupful  of  flour.  Mix  thoroughly 
and  fry  by  spoonfuls  in  deep  fat. 

CORN  FRITTERS— IV 

Grate  the  com  from  half  a  dozen  ears  or  rub 
a  can  of  com  through  a  sieve.  Add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  salt  to  season,  and  two  table- 


i86  l)ow  to  Cooit  !De0etal>le0 

spoonfuls  of  flour  made  smooth  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs,  drop  by  teaspoonfuls  into 
hot  fat,  and  fry  golden  brown.  Or,  omit  the 
milk,  use  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  fry  on  a 
griddle. 

CORN  FRITTERS— V 

Beat  two  eggs,  add  one  cupful  of  milk  and 
one  can  of  com.  Season  with  salt  and  sugar, 
or  pepper,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Stir  in  a 
teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  mix  thoroughly, 
and  fry  by  tablespoonfuls  in  deep  fat  or  on  a 
griddle.  The  baking-powder  may  be  omitted 
and  a  small  pinch  of  soda  used  instead. 

CORN  FRITTERS— VI 

Mix  together  two  cupf  uls  of  green  com  scraped 
from  the  cob,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
pepper  and  salt  to  season,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  baking-powder  sifted  with  half  a  cupful  of 
flour  and  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Add  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  batter.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  fry  by  spoonfuls  in  deep  fat. 

CORN  FRITTERS— VII 

Cut  the  corn  from  four  cooked  ears  of  corn. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  two  eggs 
beaten  with  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  enough  sifted 
flour  to  make  a  batter  that  will  drop  from  a 


£f dbtfitf Seven  jmiaisd  to  Cooft  Com     187 

spoon.     Drop    by    spoonftds    into    boiling   fat, 
drain,  and  serve. 

CORN  FRITTERS—VIII 

Grate  the  com  from  half  a  dozen  ears,  add  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  salt  and  pep- 
per to  season.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites, 
and  fry  by  spoonfuls  on  a  buttered  griddle. 

CORN  FRITTERS— IX 

To  two  cupfuls  of  com  pulp  add  two  eggs 
well  beaten,  one-quarter  cupful  of  milk,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  season  highly.  Fry  in  thin 
small  cakes  on  a  buttered  griddle. 

CORN  FRITTERS— X 

Grate  the  com  from  a  dozen  ears.  Add  three 
eggs  well  beaten,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
rubbed  smooth  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk 
or  cream,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  season.  Bake  in  small  flat  cakes  on 
a  griddle,  using  plenty  of  butter. 

CORN  FRITTERS— XI 

Score  the  kernels  on  a  dozen  ears  of  corn  with 
a  sharp  knife.  Press  out  the  pulp  with  the  back 
of  a  knife.  Add  a  cupful  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper 
to  season,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  two  cupfuls  of  pastry  flour  sifted  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking-powder.  When  thoroughly 
mixed  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the 


i88  f)oiv  to  CooR  !t)e0etable0 

eggs  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  deep  fat.     Fry 
brown,  drain,  and  serve  hot. 

•   CORN  FRITTERS— XII 

Make  a  batter  of  three  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of 
milk,  a  teaspoonf ul  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  baking-powder  sifted  with  half  a  cupful  of 
flour.  Stir  in  a  can  of  com  and  fry  by  spoonfuls 
in  deep  fat. 

CORN  FRITTERS— XIII 

Mix  together  one  can  of  com  or  six  fresh  ears 
of  com  grated.  Add  three  unbeaten  eggs,  one 
tablespoonf ul  of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonf ul 
of  flour  or  two  rolled  and  sifted  crackers,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
fry  in  butter  in  small  flat  cakes. 

SUCCOTASH— I 

Boil  a  pint  of  shelled  lima  beans  for  half  an 
hour,  or  more,  changing  the  water  twice.  Add 
an  equal  quantity  of  com  cut  from  the  ears 
and  cook  imtil  done.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter,  and  serve.  Add  a  little  sugar  and 
cream  if  desired,  or  moisten  with  Cream  Sauce. 
The  beans  may  be  boiled  with  the  corn-cobs, 
removing  them  when  the  corn  is  added.  Twice 
as  much  com  as  beans  may  be  used. 

SUCCOTASH— II 

Soak  a  pint  each  of  dried  com  and  lima  beans 


iBigbt^Sc^en  Wtp^  to  Cooft  Com     189 

overnight.  Cook  separately  until  tender  in 
boiling  water  with  a  pinch  of  soda  and  a  slice  of 
salt  pork  cut  into  small  bits  in  each  dish.  When 
tender,  mix  and  reheat  in  milk  or  cream  or 
Cream  Sauce.  Or,  use  canned  com  with  the 
beans  and  season  with  butter  and  salt. 

SUCCOTASH— III 

Cut  the  com  from  six  cobs  and  string  and  cut 
into  short  lengths  two  cupfuls  of  string  beans. 
Cook  for  half  an  hour  in  boiling  salted  water 
to  cover.  Drain  off  nearly  all  the  water  and 
add  a  cupful  of  milk.  Simmer  for  twenty  min- 
utes, stirring  frequently,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer. 

SUCCOTASH— IV 

Cook  separately  C9m  cut  from  the  ear  and 
any  kind  of  beans.  Mix  equal  quantities,  sea- 
son with  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  cream.  Heat 
thoroughly  and  serve,  or  reheat  in  Cream 
Sauce. 

SUCCOTASH— V 

Cook  a  pint  of  young  lima  beans  in  salted 
water  or  milk  to  cover,  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Add  the  com  cut  from  eight  ears  and  cook  for 
ten  minutes  longer.  Drain  and  put  into  a 
double  boiler  with  a  cupful  of  hot  milk  and 
a  tablespoonful    of   butter.     Sinmier   for    five 


igo  l>ow  to  Cook  Vedetablcd 

minutes,  season  to  taste,  and  serve.     Thicken 
with  a  little  flour  if  desired. 

SUCCOTASH— VI 

Scrape,  wash,  and  cut  into  thin  slices  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  salt  pork.  Cover  with  boiling 
water  and  simmer  until  nearly  tender.  Add 
two  cupfuls  of  fresh  lima  beans  and  more  water 
if  necessary.  When  the  beans  are  tender,  add 
two  cupfuls  of  com  pulp  and  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes  longer.  Season  with  pepper,  butter, 
and  cream.  If  dried  vegetables  are  used,  soak 
overnight.  For  a  change  in  the  seasoning 
grated  onion  or  a  little  Tomato  Sauce  may  be 
added. 

SUCCOTASH— VII 

Cook  a  pint  of  young  lima  or  kidney  beans 
in  salted  boiling  water  to  cover  for  twenty-five 
minutes.  Add  a  bit  of  baking-sdda  the  size 
of  a  pea,  boil  one  minute  longer,  and  drain.  Add 
two  cupfuls  of  com  pulp  pressed  from  the  cob, 
one  cupful  of  milk  or  cream,  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  for 
five  minutes  and  serve. 

SOUTHERN  SUCCOTASH 

String  two  quarts  of  beans  and  break  into 
small  pieces.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  add 
half  a  pound  of  bacon  sliced  thin,  and  boil 
until  almost  done.     Add  the  com    cut    from 


£idbti2«'Seven  Wiwsfi  to  Cooft  Com     191 

six  cobs,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  cup- 
ful of  cream.  Cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour, 
stirring   constantly. 


FIFTY-FOUR    WAYS    TO    COOK 
CUCUMBERS 

BAKED  CUCUMBERS—I 

Peel  small  cucumbers  and  bake  covered  for 
half  an  hour,  basting  with  half  a  cupful  of  boiling 
water  to  which  has  been  added  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 

BAKED  CUCUMBERS— II 

Peel  two  cucumbers,  split  lengthwise,  and  take 
out  the  seeds.  Make  a  stuffing  of  soft  bread- 
crumbs mixed  with  melted  butter,  and  salt, 
cayenne,  and  grated  onion  to  season.  Fill  the 
cucumbers  and  bake  brown,  basting  with  hot 
water  or  stock  and  melted  butter. 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS— I 

Peel  and  cut  lengthwise  into  thick  slices  three 
cuctimbers,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in 
flour  or  corn-meal,  and  saut^  in  butter,  or  dip  in 
egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS— II 

Peel  the  cucumbers,  cover  with  jce-water,  let 
stand  for  half  an  hotir,  and  slice  lengthwise. 

19a 


Jfifti2»#out  Mvsfi  to  Cook  (tuctttnbcvd    193 

Let  stand  in  fresh  ice-water  for  ten  minutes 
more.  Drain,  dry,  dredge  with  seasoned  flour, 
and  fry  brown  in  deep  fat.  Or,  dip  in  crumbs, 
then  in  egg  and  crumbs  before  frying. 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS— III 

Peel  the  cucumbers,  cut  in  thick  slices  either 
lengthwise  or  across,  cover  with  cold  water,  and 
let  stand  for  half  an  hour.  Drain,  dry  on  a  cloth, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Or,  dip  in  a  batter 
made  of  one  egg,  one  cupful  of  milk,  and  one  and 
one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  sifted  with  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking-powder  and  a  pinch  each  of  salt 
and  paprika.  Or,  dip  in  seasoned  flour  and 
saut6.  Serve  with  mayonnaise.  Garnish  with 
sliced  lemon. 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS— IV 

Peel  two  or  three  cucumbers,  cut  into  thick 
slices,  and  soak  for  an  hour  in  salted  and  acidu- 
lated water.  Drain,  dry  on  a  cloth,  and  fry  light 
brown  in  deep  fat. 

ESCALLOPED  CUCUMBERS— I 

Peel  and  cut  into  dice  six  large  cucumbers. 
Butter  a  baking-dish  and  put  in  a  layer  of  the 
dice,  seasoning  with  grated  onion  and  lemon- 
juice.  Cover  with  cnunbs,  dot  with  butter,  and 
season  with  paprika  and  celery  salt.  Repeat 
until  the  dish  is  full  having  crumbs  and  butter 

13 


194  t)ow  to  Coofi  HOCQCtabice 

on  top.  Cover  and  bake  for  an  hour,  then  re- 
move the  cover,  and  brown.  Serve  with  Sauce 
Piquante. 

ESCALLOPED  CUCUMBERS— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Escalloped  Cucumbers — I,  spreading  a  layer  of 
well-seasoned  Cream  Sauce  over  each  layer  of 
cucumbers.  Have  sauce  on  top.  Cover  with 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  covered  for 
an  hour,  then  brown. 

ESCALLOPED  CUCUMBERS— III 

Peel  and  chop  three  large  cucumbers  and  boil 
until  tender  in  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain  and 
reheat  in  a  Cream  Sauce.  Cook  separately  in 
boiling  salted  water  half  a  dozen  sliced  onions. 
Put  the  creamed  cucumber  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish  with  alternate  layers  of  the  drained 
onions.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  cheese, 
dot  with  butter,  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 

ESCALLOPED  CUCUMBERS— IV 

Fill  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  sliced  cucum- 
bers arranged  in  layers,  sprinkling  each  layer 
with  crumbs  and  dots  of  butter.  Bake  covered 
until  tender,  then  uncover,  and  brown.  Serve 
in  the  baking-dish. 

CUCUMBER  FRITTERS— I 

Peel    and    grate    three    or   four    cucumbers. 


jfifti3«>f  out  tldlas0  to  Cook  Cucumbers   19^ 

Press  the  juice  from  the  pulp  and  add  to  two 
cupfuls  of  pulp  one  cupful  of  flour,  half  a  cupful 
of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  four  eggs  beaten 
separately.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  deep  fat 
and  fry  brown. 

CUCUMBER  FRITTERS— II 

Peel  and  slice  cucumbers,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  let  stand  for  fifteen  minutes,  drain  and 
wipe  dry.  Beat  an  egg  with  a  cupful  of  milk 
and  add  enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a  batter. 
Season  the  cucumber  slices,  dip  in  the  batter, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

CUCUMBER  TIMBALES 

Mix  one  cupful  of  cooked  cucumber  pulp 
and  half  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs  with  half 
a  cupful  of  very  thick  Cream  Sauce,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon-juice,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
beaten  thoroughly,  and  a  few  drops  of  onion- 
juice.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs,  fill  small  buttered  timbale-moulds,  and 
bake  until  firm  in  a  pan  of  hot  water. 

MASHED  CUCUMBERS  ' 

Peel  and  cut  up  old  cucumbers  and  boil  until 
soft  in  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  mash,  and 
season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 


196  f)ow  to  (took  VegetnblcB 

DEVILLED  CUCUMBERS 

Make  a  sauce  of  one  cupful  of  stewed  and 
strained  tomato,  half  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
salt  and  made  mustard,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
salt,  cayenne,  and  grated  onion  to  season,  a 
tablespoonful  of  olive-oil,  and  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon.  Bring  to  the  boil,  pour  over  fried 
cucumbers,  and  serve. 

CUCUMBERS  ON  TOAST 

Peel  and  cut  two  or  three  large  cucumbers 
into  half-inch  slices.  Cover  with  hot  water  and 
stew  until  tender  but  not  broken.  Bring  a 
cupful  of  cream  to  the  boil  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Drain 
the  cucumbers,  reheat  in  the  cream,  and  serve 
on  toast. 

RAGoCt   of  CUCUMBERS  AND   ONIONS 

Slice  three  cucumbers  and  two  onions.  Fry 
brown  in  butter,  dredging  with  a  little  flour. 
Add  enough  water  to  cover,  and  cook  for  half 
an  hour.  Thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
butter  and  flour  cooked  together,  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  season,  and  half  a  cupful  of  stewed 
and  strained  tomato.  Heat  thoroughly  and 
serve. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS— I 

Peel,  split  lengthwise,  and .  seed  two  large 
cucumbers.     Cut   crosswise   into    small   pieces. 


9itt^*fovLt  Wia^  to  Cooft  Cucumbetd    197 

scald,  and  drain.  Discard  the  ends.  Cover  with 
cold  salted  water,  cook  until  tender,  and  drain, 
reserving  the  liquid.  Thicken  a  cupful  of  it  with 
a  tablespoonf ul  each  of  butter  and  flour  cooked 
together,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Reheat  the  cucumbers  in 
the  sauce,  pour  over  buttered  toast,  and  serve. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS—II 

Peel,  quarter,  and  seed  two  or  three  large 
cucumbers.  Cut  again  in  small  pieces,  and  cook 
until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water,  to  cover. 
Drain,  season,  pour  over  a  little  melted  butter, 
and  add  a  tablespoonf  ul  or  more  of  hot  cream. 
Serve  on  toast,  or  reheat  in  Drawn-Butter 
Sauce.  They  may  be  soaked  in  cold  water  for 
half  an  hour  before  cooking. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS— III 

Peel  and  cut  eight  cucumbers  into  inch  slices. 
Soak  for  half  an  hour  in  ice-water,  drain,  and 
cook  until  tender  in  beef  stock  to  cover.  Drain, 
and  thicken  the  cooking  liquid  with  flour  browned 
in  butter.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  grated 
onion,  and  kitchen  bouquet.  Pour  over  the 
stewed  cucumbers  and  serve. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS—IV 

Peel  the  cucumbers  and  split  lengthwise  into 
quarters.  Scoop  out  the  seeds,  wash  thoroughly, 
and  cook  in  salted  boiling  water  until  tender. 


1 93  1>ow  to  Cooft  Il>e0etal^le0 

Drain  and  dry  on  a  cloth.  Cook  two  tablespoon- 
fills  of  flour  in  butter,  put  in  the  cucumbers  and 
enough  stock  to  moisten,  seasoning  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg.  Cook  slowly  until 
the  sauce  is  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
beaten  with  a  few  drops  of  vinegar. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS— V 

Peel  and  quarter  six  cucumbers,  remove  the 
seeds,  and  fry  in  butter  with  a  chopped  onion. 
Take  up  the  cucumbers  and  cook  a  tablespoon- 
f ul  of  flour  in  the  fat  remaining  in  the  pan.  Add 
one  cupful  of  stock  or  water  and  cook  until 
thick,  stirring  constantly.  Season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  cook  the  cucumbers  in  the 
sauce  for  twenty  minutes.  Serve  on  small 
squares  of  buttered   toast. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS— VI 

Peel  and  slice  two  or  three  cucumbers.  Cook 
until  tender  in  water  to  cover  with  a  chopped 
onion.  Drain,  sprinkle  with  flour,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  cook  for  two  or 
three  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Serve  very 
hot. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS— VII 

Peel  the  cucumbers,  soak  in  ice-water  for  an 
hour,  then  slice  thin.  Boil  for  fifteen  minutes 
in  water  to  cover,  drain,  season  with  §alt  and 


fitt^^fomWaigB  to  Coofi  (Ittcttmt>et0   199 

pepper,  and  reheat  in  Cream  Sauce.     Squeeze 
in  a  few  drops  of  lemon- juice  and  serve. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS— VIII 

Peel,  quarter,  and  remove  the  seeds  from  three 
or  four  cucumbers.  Cover  with  boiling  water 
and  let  stand  until  the  water  is  cool.  Drain  and 
reheat  in  Cream  Sauce  with  a  tablespoonftd  of 
chopped  onion.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  for 
fifteen  minutes,  sprinkle  with  minced  parsley, 
and  serve. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS  A  LA  BECHAMEL 

Slice  three  cucumbers,  parboil  for  two  minutes, 
drain,  and  cool  in  ice- water.  Drain,  cover  with 
Bechamel  Sauce,  and  cook  slowly  until  tender. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS— I 

Peel  and  split  large  cucumbers  lengthwise. 
Scoop  out  the  seeds.  Make  a  forcemeat  of  minced 
cooked  chicken  or  lamb  or  veal  or  fish  mixed  with 
one-third  the  quantity  of  bread-crumbs  and  sea- 
soned with  salt,  butter,  and  paprika.  Tie  the 
halves  together  with  string,  put  into  a  baking-pan, 
cover  with  stock,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Remove  the  strings,  thicken  the  cooking  liquid 
with  flour  browned  in  butter,  pour  over  the 
cucumbers,  and  serve.  Or,  line  the  baking-pan 
with  thin  slices  of  pork,  and  put  in  the  cucumbers, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  minced  herbs. 
Cover  with  buttered  paper  and  bake  for  twenty 


300  l)ow  to  Cooii  Ve^etabled 

minutes,    basting   with   melted   batter.     Serve 
with  Brown  Sauce. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS— II 

Peel  and  split  large  cucumbers  lengthwise. 
Scoop  out  the  pulp  and  fill  with  a  stuffing  made 
of  cooked  chicken  chopped  fine  and  mixed  with 
soft  crumbs  seasoned  nicely  and  moistened  with 
a  beaten  egg  or  a  little  stock.  Sprinkle  with 
crumbs  and  put  into  a  baking-pan  with  stock 
half  an  inch  thick.  Bake  tuitil  the  cucumbers 
are  tender,  basting  frequently,  and  adding  more 
stock  if  required.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  rubbed  smooth  in  a 
little  cold  water  and  pour  around  the  cucumbers 
when  serving. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS— III 

Peel  carefully  half  a  dozen  large  cucumbers, 
parboil  for  five  minutes,  drain,  cool,  cut  in  two, 
and  trim  the  ends.  Scoop  out  the  centres. 
Make  a  stuffing  of  one  cupful  of  chopped  cooked 
chicken  and  a  beaten  egg,  seasoning  with  vinegar, 
celery  seed,  and  th5rme.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of 
butter  and  a  little  of  the  cucumber  pulp.  Fill 
the  cucumber  shells,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot 
with  butter,  and  bake  brown. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS— IV 

Peel  and  split  lengthwise  three  cucumbers. 
Make  a  stuffing  of  one  cupful  of  chopped  cooked 


fitV^^font  TRIlai30  to  Cooft  encumbers  201 

chicken,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  parsley  and 
minced  cooked  ham,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream,  and  salt,  paprika,  and  onion-juice  to 
season.  Scoop  out  the  seeds  from  the  cucumbers, 
fill  with  the  stuffing,  and  put  into  a  baking-pan 
with  one  cupful  of  stock  and  one-fourth  cupful 
of  white  wine  or  lemon-juice.  Bake  for  half 
an  hour,  basting  frequently,  cover  with  crumbs 
browned  in  butter,  and  pour  the  sauce  from  the 
pan  when  serving. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS— V 

Peel,  split,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp.  Soak  the 
shells  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour.  Fill  with  a 
forcemeat  made  of  equal  quantities  of  chopped 
cooked  chicken  and  crumbs,  well  seasoned. 
Put  the  halves  together,  tie  with  string,  and 
simmer  for  an  hour  in  stock.  Drain,  remove  the 
strings,  and  thicken  the  cooking  liquid  with  a 
pinch  of  corn-starch  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little 
cold  stock,  or  serve  with  B6chamel  Sauce. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS— VI 

Peel,  split,  and  scoop  out  the  seeds  from  two 
large  cucumbers.  Parboil  in  salted  water, 
drain,  cool,  and  fill  with  a  stuffing  made  of 
crumbs  and  chopped  cooked  chicken,  mixed 
with  a  little  Cream  Sauce.  Cook  until  tender 
in  beef  stock  to  cover,  with  two  or  three 
slices  of  bacon.  Drain,  and  serve  with  Es- 
pagnole  Sauce, 


' 


302  l)o\«^  to  aoofi  iPedctablee 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS— VII 

Peel  three  or  four  large  cucumbers,  trim  the 
ends,  scoop  out  the  seeds,  and  fill  with  a  stuffing 
made  of  equal  parts  of  chopped  cooked  chicken 
and  boiled  rice,  seasoned  with  sweet  herbs  and 
moistened  with  stock.  Cover  with  stock  or  milk, 
and  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Take  up  the  cu- 
cumbers and  thicken  the  sauce  with  flour  cooked 
in  butter.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  beaten  smooth  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
a  tablespoonful  of  capers,  and  a  Uttle  minced 
parsley.  Heat  thoroughly,  pour  over  the 
cucumbers,  and  serve. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS— VIII 

Peel  and  split  three  or  four  cucumbers, 
trimming  off  the  ends  and  removing  the  seeds. 
Cover  with  cold  salted  water  and  set  aside. 
Make  a  stuffing  of  equal  parts  of  chopped  cooked 
veal  and  stale  bread  cooked  to  a  smooth  paste 
in  milk.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  grated  onion, 
and  sweet  herbs,  add  a  little  melted  butter  and 
enough  beaten  egg  to  bind.  Drain  and  dry  the 
cucumbers,  fill  them  with  the  stuffing,  and  cook 
slowly  until  tender  in  stock  to  cover.  Drain,  ar- 
range on  toast,  strain  the  stock,  thicken  with  flour 
browned  in  butter,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
lemon-juice,  pour  over  the  cucumbers  and  serve. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS— IX 
Peel  four  cucumbers,  trim  the  ends,  cut  in  two 


f  itts<»f  our  TOaisd  to  Coofi  Cucumbers   203 

crosswise,  and  take  out  the  seeds.  Cover  with 
cold  salted  water  and  let  stand  for  half  an  hour. 
Cook  a  tablespoonful  of  bread-crumbs  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  a  little  milk.  Add  half  a 
cupful  of  chopped  cooked  veal  or  chicken,  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  grated  onion,  and 
thyme.  Add  one  egg  well  beaten,  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Drain  the  cucumbers,  fill  with  the 
stuffing,  and  cook  them  slowly  until  tender  in 
well-seasoned  white  stock  to  cover.  Drain, 
arrange  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  toast,  and  pour 
over  a  sauce  made  by  thickening  a  cupful  of 
the  cooking  liquid  with  a  tablespoonful  each  of 
butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Season  the 
sauce  with  salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  onion- 
juice,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon-juice. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS— X 

Peel  and  split  four  large  cucumbers,  and 
scoop  out  the  seeds.  Mix  two  cupfuls  of  minced 
raw  beef  with  half  a  cupful  of  chopped  nuts  and 
a  grated  onion.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
stuff  the  cucumbers,  and  put  the  halves  together, 
tying  firmly  into  shape.  Put  into  a  baking-pan 
with  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning,  and 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  teaspoon- 
f ul  of  beef  extract.  Bake  for  an  hour  and  a  half, 
basting  frequently.  Remove  the  strings,  and 
serve  very  hot. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS— XI 

Peel    and    split    the    cucumbers    lengthwise. 


304  "bow  to  Oook  X^cgctnblcB 

Scoop  out  the  pulp  and  fill  the  cavities  with  a 
stuffing  made  of  equal  parts  of  minced  roast  beef 
and  boiled  ham  with  half  as  much  fine  bread- 
crumbs. Moisten  the  stuffing  with  melted 
butter  and  season  to  taste.  Fill  the  cucumbers 
and  tie  the  halves  together  with  string.  Put 
into  a  baking-pan  with  a  cupful  of  beef  stock 
and  cook  tmtil  tender.  Remove  the  strings, 
take  up  the  cuctunbers,  thicken  the  gravy  with 
flour  browned  in  butter,  pour  around  the  cucum- 
bers, and  serve. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS— XII 

Peel  large  cuctunbers,  remove  a  small  piece 
from  the  side,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp  with  a 
spoon.  Fill  the  cavity  with  nicely  flavored 
stuffing  of  minced  cooked  meat  and  crumbs, 
replace  the  cut-out  portion,  and  tie  on  with 
thread.  Cook  until  tender  in  stock  to  cover, 
adding  a  slice  or  two  of  bacon  for  seasoning  and  a 
little  carrot,  turnip,  and  onion  if  desired.  Cook 
slowly  until  the  cucumber  is  tender,  strain  the 
liquid  and  thicken  it  with  a  little  flour  cooked 
in  butter,  pour  over  the  cucumbers,  and  serve. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS— XIII 

Make  a  stuffing  of  two  cupf  uls  of  finely  chopped 
cooked  meat,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  onion.  Peel  and  split  lengthwise  half  a 
dozen  cucumbers  and  take  out  the  seeds.  Fill 
the  halves  with  the  meat,  and  tie  together.     Put 


fitt^t^font  WatB  to  Cooft  Cucumbetd    205 

into  a  baking-pan  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
chopped  onion,  a  cupful  of  canned  tomatoes,  and 
half  a  cupful  or  more  of  stock.  Bake  for  an  hour, 
basting  every  ten  minutes.  When  done,  take  up 
the  cucumbers  and  strain  the  sauce  over  them. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS—XIV 

Soak  two  slices  of  bread  in  cold  water  and 
squeeze  dry.  Add  a  chopped  onion,  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  minced  parsley,  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter.  Peel  and  split  four  cucumbers, 
scoop  out  the  seeds,  and  £11  with  the  stuffing. 
Put  a  few  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  into  a  baking- 
pan,  lay  in  the  cucumbers,  and  bake,  basting 
with  well-seasoned  stock. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS— XV 

Peel  and  split  four  cucumbers  and  scoop  out 
the  seeds.  Make  a  stuffing  of  one  cupful  of 
stale  bread-crumbs,  half  a  cupful  of  chopped 
nuts,  one  onion  peeled  and  chopped,  a  table- 
spoonful  each  of  minced  parsley  and  Chutney 
Sauce,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Stuff 
the  cucumbers,  put  the  halves  together,  and  tie 
into  shape  with  strings.  Brown  in  olive-oil, 
add  half  a  cupful  of  water,  and  bake  for  an  hour 
and  a  half,  basting  frequently.  Remove  the 
strings  and  serve. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS— XVI 

Cut  laige   cucumbers   into   thirds   crosswise, 


2o6  f)ow  to  Cook  V>cQcttiblce 

trim  carefully,  and  scoop  out  the  centres,  making 
small  cups.  Fill  with  seasoned  crumbs  and 
cover  each  one  with  a  thin  slice  of  salt  pork  or 
bacon.  Put  into  a  baking-pan  with  two  cupfuls 
of  stock,  an  onion,  a  clove,  a  small  carrot,  and 
a  bunch  of  parsley.  Cover  and  bake,  basting 
occasionally.  Skim,  strain,  and  thicken  the 
gravy,  pour  over  the  cucumbers,  and  serve. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS  A  LA  GRECQUE 

Peel,  trim,  and  cut  in  thirds  crosswise  four 
cucumbers.  Remove  the  seeds,  making  small 
cuts.  Fill  with  a  forcemeat  made  of  equal  parts 
of  raw  mutton  and  beef  suet,  minced  and  sea- 
soned with  fine  herbs.  Cover  and  bake,  basting 
with  stock.  Drain,  add  a  cupful  of  Tomato 
Sauce  to  the  cooking  liquid,  pour  around  the 
cucumbers,  and  serve. 

STUFFED    CUCUMBERS    WITH    TOMATO 

SAUCE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Stuffed  Cucumbers — I,  and  add  a  cupful  of 
stewed  and  strained  tomatoes  to  the  sauce. 

CREAMED  CUCUMBERS  A  L'ANGLAISE 

Cut  peeled  cucumbers  into  half-inch  slices  and 
let  stand  for  half  an  hour  in  ice-water.  Parboil 
for  fifteen  minutes,  drain,  and  cover  with  fresh 
boiling  water  to  which  has  been  added  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 


fitt^^font  Ww^  to  Cooh  Cucumbetd    207 

Simmer  slowly  for  five  or  ten  minutes.  Arrange 
the  cucumbers  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  toast, 
sprinkle  with  lemon-juice,  pour  over  a  hot  Cream 
Sauce,  and  serve. 

CUCUMBERS  A  LA  BECHAMEL— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Cucumbers  k  la  Maitre  d'Hdtel  and  reheat  in  a 
Bechamel  Sauce. 

CUCUMBERS  A  LA  BECHAMEL— II 

Peel  and  slice  two  large  cucumbers,  cover  with 
salted  boiling  water,  let  stand  for  five  minutes, 
drain,  and  cover  with  cold  water.  When  thor- 
oughly cool,  drain,  dry,  and  reheat  in  Bechamel 
Sauce  without  boiling.  Serve  very  hot.  Season 
with  a  pinch  of  sugar  if  desired. 

CUCUMBERS  A  LA  CREME 

Peel  and  cut  into  slices  two  or  three  cucumbers. 
Boil  until  soft  in  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain 
and  reheat  in  a  Cream  Sauce.  Sprinkle  with 
minced  parsley  before  serving. 

CUCUMBERS  A  L'ESPAGNOLE 

Peel  and  quarter  half  a  dozen  large  cucumbers. 
Remove  the  seeds,  cut  into  inch-lengths,  parboil 
in  salted  water,  drain,  and  saut^  in  butter  with 
a  little  sugar.  Drain,  add  two  cupfuls  of  Espag- 
nole  Sauce  or  brown  stock  thickened  with  but- 
ter and  flour,  cook  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve. 


2oS  f)o\9(^  to  Cooft  Vedetabte^ 

CUCUMBERS  A  L'lTALIENNE 

Peel  four  cucumbers,  cut  crosswise,  and  remove 
the  seeds.  Parboil  for  five  minutes,  drain,  and  fill 
with  a  forcemeat  made  of  minced  cooked  meat  and 
seasoned  crumbs.  Add  stock  nearly  to  cover  and 
three  or  four  slices  of  salt  pork.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Cook  slowly  for  half  an 
hour,  drain,  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  Parme- 
san cheese,  pour  over  a  thick  Velout6  Sauce,  and 
serve.  If  a  simpler  dish  is  desired  the  cheese 
and  sauce  may  be  omitted. 

CUCUMBERS  A  LA  MAITRE  D'H(3tEI^-I 

Peel  and  quarter  six  cucumbers  and  soak  for 
fifteen  minutes  in  ice-water.  Drain,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  and  cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour. 
Drain,  pour  over  a  Maitre  d'H6tel  Sauce,  and 
serve. 

CUCUMBERS  X  LA  MAITRE  D'HOTEI^-II 

Peel,  split  lengthwise,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp 
from  two  or  three  large  cucumbers.  Cook 
until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water,  drain,  and 
reheat  in  butter,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper, 
minced  chives,  and  parsley.  Serve  very  hot. 
Add  a  little  lemon- juice  if  desired.  The  cuciun- 
bers  may  be  cut  up. 

CUCUMBERS  A  LA  POULETTE— I 
Prepare  the  cucumbers  according  to  diiiectiooA 


Witt^^foni  Mai2d  to  (took  CncambciB    209 

given  for  Cucumbers  k  la  Maitre  d'Hdtel  and 
reheat  in  a  Cream  Sauce.  Take  from  the  fire 
and  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  vinegar. 

CUCUMBERS  A  LA  POULETTB— II 

Peel  and  split  three  cucumbers,  scoop  out 
the  seeds,  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Cook  tmtil 
tender  in  salted  water  to  cover,  and  drain. 
Cook  together  one  tablespoonf  ul  each  of  butter 
and  flour,  add  a  cupful  or  two  of  stock  or  of  the 
cooking  liquid,  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring 
constantly.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add 
the  drained  cucumbers  and  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  well  beaten.  Heat  thoroughly  but  do  not 
boil,  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  and  serve. 

X4 


FORTY-SEVEN  WAYS  TO  (X)OK 

EGGPLANT 

BOILED  EGGPLANT 

Peel  and  cut  up  two  eggplants  and  boil  in 
salted  water  until  tender  with  an  onion,  three 
cloves,  and  a  small  bunch  of  parsley.  Drain 
and  serve  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

BROILED  EGGPLANT— I 

Peel  and  cut  into  thin  slices  and  soak  for  an 
hour  in  cold  salted  water.  Drain  and  dry 
thoroughly.  Soak  for  half  an  hour  in  a  marinade 
of  olive-oil  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
a  little  lemon- juice  to  the  marinade  if  desired. 
Broil  and  serve  with  Maltre  d'Hdtel  Sauce. 
The  slices  may  be  dipped  in  egg  and  crumbs 
before  broiling. 

BROILED  EGGPLANT— II 

Chop  fine  a  small  onion  and  two  beans  of 
garlic.  Fry  in  oil,  add  one  cupful  of  Tomato 
Sauce,  and  simmer  for  ten  minutes.  Put  broiled 
eggplant  on  a  platter  and  lay  shredded  ancho- 
vies on  each  piece.  Pour  the  sauce  over,  sprinkle 
with  minced  parsley  and  onion- juice,  and  serve. 

2IO 


fott^^Seven  Wa^  to  Cooft  fiagplant  211 

BAKED  EGGPLANT— I 

Parboil,  cut  off  the  top,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp. 
Mash  the  pulp  and  cook  it  in  butter,  seasoning 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Take  from  the  fire,  add 
the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  and  enough  bread- 
crumbs to  make  a  smooth  paste.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, refill  the  shell,  and  bake,  basting  with 
melted  butter.  A  slice  of  onion,  finely  chopped, 
may  be  fried  with  the  pulp.  The  egg  may  be 
omitted  and  the  stuffing  moistened  with  stock. 
Baste  with  stock  when  baking. 

•      BAKED  EGGPLANT— II 

Cut  a  large  plant  in  two  crosswise  and  put  into 
a  dripping-pan  with  half  a  cupful  of  salted  water. 
Bake  until  soft,  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  serve.  Or,  scoop  out  the  pulp,  boil, 
mash,  and  season,  fill  the  shells,  and  bake, 
sprinkling  with  crtunbs  if  desired. 

BAKED  EGGPLANT— III 

Split  an  eggplant  and  scoop  out  the  inside, 
leaving  the  shell  hard  and  firm.  Chop  the  pulp, 
add  half  a  cupful  of  cream,  salt,  pepper,  and 
melted  butter  to  season,  and  enough  bread- 
crumbs to  make  a  smooth  thick  paste.  Fill  the 
shells,  tie  together,  and  bake  an  hour  or  more. 

BAKED  EGGPLANT— IV 

Split  two  eggplants  and  soak  for  two  hours 
in  salted  water.     Parboil,  peel,  chop  fine,  and 


aia  f>ovp  to  Coofi  V^e^etables 

press  out  all  the  water.  Add  the  yolks  of  six, 
hard-tx)iled  eggs  mashed  fine,  one  teaspoonful 
each  of  chopped  onion  and  sweet  marjoram,  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  minced  parsley,  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper  to  taste,  and  one  raw  egg  well  beaten. 
Add  also  half  a  cupful  of  butter  melted.  Put 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  cracker-crumbs 
on  top  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

BAKED  EGGPLANT— V 

Cut  an  eggplant  into  halves  and  scoop  out 
most  of  the  pulp.  Chop  it  fine,  mix  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  crumbs,  and  season  highly 
with  salt,  melted  butter,  red  and  black  pepper. 
Mix  thoroughly,  fill  the  shells,  and  lay  on  top  of 
each  a  thin  slice  of  bacon.  Bake  for  forty 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

BAKED  EGGPLANT— VI 

Cut  in  two  and  boil  for  half  an  hour.  Drain, 
peel,  cut  into  dice,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  brown  in 
the  oven,  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. 

BAKED  EGGPLANT— VII 

Boil  an  unpeeled  eggplant  until  tender  and 
throw  it  into  cold  water.  Peel,  cut  in  two,  scoop 
out  the  seeds,  and  fill  with  a  dressing  made  of 
bread-crumbs,  a  little  chopped  onion,  and  salt, 
pepper,  and  melted  butter  to  season.     Put  into 


#octs«Seven  TiOaige  to  dooft  JEddplant   213 

a    baking-pan   with   a    little   water   and  bake 
brown. 

BAKED  EGGPLANT  WITH  CHEESE 

Cover  two  eggplants  with  boiling  water  and 
let  stand  for  ten  minutes.  Drain,  peel,  slice  thin 
and  cut  each  slice  in  four,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  fry.  Cook  together  one  tablespoon- 
ful  each  of  butter  and  flour,  add  one  cupful  of 
milk  and  half  a  cupful  of  stock  and  cook  until 
smooth  and  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Season 
with  salt  and  cayenne.  Put  the  fried  eggplant 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish  in  layers,  covering 
each  layer  with  gjrated  cheese  and  sauce.  Have 
cheese  on  top.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

BAKED  EGGPLANT  A  LA  FRANQAISE 

Cover  an  unpeeled  eggplant  with  cold  water 
and  cook  until  soft.  Cool,  peel,  and  mash, 
seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  it  with 
the  crumbs  of  two  slices  of  bread,  two  slices  of 
bacon  cut  into  dice  and  fried  crisp,  and  one  eg^ 
slightly  beaten.     Bake  until  brown. 

PRIED  EGGPLANT— I 

Peel  and  slice  an  eggplant  and  soak  over 
night  in  cold  salted  water.  Drain  and  cover 
with  cold  water  for  half  an  hour.  Wipe  dry, 
dip  in  seasoned  flour,  or  in  flour,  beaten  egg,  and 
crumbs.     Fry  in  deep  fat.     Grated  cheese  may 


214  l)ow  to  Cooft  iDe0etal>le0 

be  mixed  with  the  cnimbs.     Serve  with  White, 
Cream,  Tomato,  or  Caper  Sauce. 

FRIED  EGGPLANT— II 

Peel  and  slice  an  eggplant  in  very  thin  slices. 
Sprinkle  the  slices  with  salt,  pile  on  a  plate, 
cover  with  a  weight,  and  let  stand  for  an  hour 
to  take  out  the  juice.  Rinse  in  cold  water, 
wipe  dry,  dredge  with  seasoned  flour,  and  saut^ 
in  butter  or  fry  in  deep  fat. 

FRIED  EGGPLANT— III 

Peel,  cut  in  slices,  and  soak  in  salted  water. 
Drain  and  steam  until  tender.  Make  a  batter 
of  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cupful  of 
sour  cream,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda,  and  enough  flour  to  thicken.  Dip 
the  slices  in  the  batter  and  fry  brown. 

FRIED  EGGPLANT— IV 

Soak  peeled  and  sliced  eggplant  for  half  an 
hour  in  cold  salted  water,  or  in  boiling  water  if 
preferred  very  delicate,  drain,  wipe,  dip  in 
crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs, 
and  saut6  in  butter.  Or,  dredge  with  seasoned 
flour  before  frying. 

FRIED    EGGPLANT     WITH     PARMESAN 

CHEESE 

Peel  and  quarter  an  eggplant,  scoop  out  the 
seeds,  and  cut  it  into  convenient  pieces.     Rub 


gott^s^Bcven  WiaiBfi  to  Cook  Bddplant  215 

the  inside  of  a  saucepan  with  a  cut  clove  of 
garlic  and  fry  the  eggplant  in  the  same  pan  with 
melted  butter,  seasoning  to  taste  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg.  Before  the  egg- 
plant is  quite  done,  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  and  add  more  butter  if 
necessary. 

CREAMED  PRIED  EGGPLANT 

Peel  and  slice  an  eggplant  and  soak  for  two 
hours  in  salted  water.  Drain,  dip  into  cream, 
then  into  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  a  light  brown. 
Serve  with  Cream  Sauce. 

EGGPLANT  FRITTERS 

Peel,  slice,  cover  with  cold  water,  boil  until 
soft,  and  drain.  Or,  put  into  boiling  salted  and 
acidulated  water.  Mash  smooth,  add  salt  and  pep- 
per to  season,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Fry  by  spoonfuls 
in  deep  fat. 

ESCALLOPED  EGGPLANT— I 

Boil  a  large  egg-plant  until  tender,  peel,  and 
mash.  Season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 
Add  two  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine  and  half 
an  onion  grated.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
bread-crumbs,  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
brown. 


3i6  1)ow  to  dooft  Vegetables 

ESCALLOPED  EGGPLANT— II 

Peel,  cut  into  dice,  and  soak  for  an  hour  in 
cold  salted  water.  Boil  for  twenty  minutes, 
drain,  and  put  in  layers  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  alternating  with  fine  crumbs.  Season 
each  layer  with  salt  and  pepper,  dot  with  butter, 
and  sprinkle  with  minced  green  peppers.  Cover 
with  crumbs  soaked  in  cream,  dot  with  butter, 
and  bake,  covered,  then  remove  the  cover  and 
brown. 

EGGPLANT  FARCI 

Boil  three  small  eggplants  for  twenty  minutes. 
Cut  in  two  lengthwise  and  scoop  out  the  pulp, 
leaving  a  shell  half  an  inch  thick.  Make  a 
stuffing  of  half  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs  soaked 
in  stock,  half  a  cupful  of  cooked  chicken,  veal, 
or  lamb  chopped  fine,  one  beaten  egg,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
nutmeg  to  season.  Fill  the  shells  and  put  into  a 
baking-pan  with  one  cupful  of  stock  and  one- 
fourth  cupful  of  White  Wine.  Cover  with 
buttered  crumbs  and  bake  for  an  hour.  Thicken 
the  pan  gravy  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
cooked  in  butter,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  Sherry, 
pour  the  sauce  around,  and  serve. 

EGGPLANT  WITH  CHEESE  SAUCE 

Peel  a  large  eggplant,  split  lengthwise,  and 
take  out  the  seeds.  Cut  into  convenient  pieces 
and  cook  until  tender  in  salted  water  with  an 


n 


fotPs^Scven  Tniai30  to  dooft  JBewlmt  317 

onion,  three  cloves,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley. 
When  tender  drain  and  arrange  on  toast.  Pour 
over  a  Drawn-Butter  Sauce  to  which  has  been 
added  half  a  cupful  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

EGGPLANT  LOAF 

Peel  and  cut  up  a  large  eggplant  and  boil 
until  soft.  Drain,  mash,  and  add  half  a  pound  of 
lean  fresh  pork  chopped.  Add  two  eggs  well 
beaten  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, season  to  taste,  and  put  into  a  baking- 
dish.  Cover  the  top  with  thin  slices  of  salt  pork 
and  bake  until  the  pork  is  brown. 

MASHED  EGGPLANT 

Slice  a  large  onion  and  shred  two  green  peppers. 
Squeeze  over  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  soak  for 
three  or  four  hours.  Bake  two  eggplants  With- 
out peeling  until  soft.  Cut  in  two,  scoop  out 
the  pulp  and  mash  it,  seasoning  with  salt, 
mustard,  and  oil.  Add  the  onion  and  peppers 
drained  from  the  lemon- juice,  and  a  little  of  the 
juice  if  desired.    Fill  the  shells,  reheat,  and  serve. 

STEWED  EGGPLANT— I 

Parboil,  drain,  cool,  cut  in  two,  and  scoop  out 
the  pulp.  Chop  the  pulp  and  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes  in  water  to  cover,  seasoning  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  grated  onion.  Take  from  the  fire, 
drain,  and  mix  with  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of 


3i8  f>ow  to  aooft  lt)e0etable0 

chopped  cooked  tongue  and  bread-crumbs  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  minced  capers.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  fill  the  shells,  and  tie  to- 
gether with  tape.  Bake  covered  for  an  hour 
with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  stock,  turning  once. 
Serve  with  Sauce  Piquante. 

STEWED  EGGPLANT— II 

Peel  and  cut  up  an  eggplant  and  saut6  in 
butter,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
enough  well-seasoned  stock  nearly  to  cover  and 
cook  until  tender  Take  from  the  fire  and  add 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  which  has  been  beaten  with 
the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

STEWED  EGGPLANT  WITH  ONIONS 

Soak  a  peeled  and  sliced  eggplant  in  salted 
water  for  two  hours,  drain,  and  fry  in  butter  or 
oil.  Put  into  a  saucepan,  cover  with  fried 
onions,  season  with  salt  and  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  sugar,  and  pour  over  one  cupful  of  water  and 
half  a  cupful  of  vinegar.  Cook  over  a  slow  fire 
until  the  moisture  is  nearly  absorbed. 

STUFFED  EGGPLANT— I 

Cut  a  large  eggplant  in  two,  scrape  out  the 
inside  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  chopped  raw  ham.  Cover  with 
water,  boil  until  soft,  and  drain.  Add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs,  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  half  a  minced  onion,  and  salt  and 


fott^^Scvcn  Wscgfi  to  Cooit  £0dplant  319 

pepper  to  season.  Fill  the  shells,  dot  with  butter, 
and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Minced  veal  or 
chicken  may  be  used  with  the  ham. 

STUFFED  EGGPLANT— II 

Parboil  in  salted  water  for  ten  minutes,  drain, 
cool,  and  split  lengthwise.  Scrape  out  the  pulp, 
chop  fine,  and  add  one  cupful  of  chopped  cooked 
chicken  and  half  a  cupful  of  chopped  cooked 
ham.  Add  one-fourth  cupful  of  bread-crumbs, 
a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  season.  Add  enough  stock  to 
moisten,  fill  the  shell,  cover  with  crumbs, 
and  put  into  a  baking-dish  with  two  cupfuls  of 
stock.  Bake  for  an  hour,  basting  half  a  dozen 
times.  Thicken  the  pan  gravy  with  flour 
browned  in  butter,  pour  around  the  eggplant, 
and  serve. 

STUFFED  EGGPLANT— III 

Parboil  an  eggplant  for  ten  minutes  and  slit 
down  the  side  without  cutting  through.  Scoop 
out  as  much  of  the  pulp  as  possible,  taking  care 
to  remove  the  seeds.  Make  a  stuffing  of  bread- 
crumbs and  chopped  salt  pork,  seasoning  with 
grated  onion,  minced  parsley,  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  nutmeg.  Add  a  well-beaten  egg  and 
enough  cream  to  moisten.  Fill  the  plant  and 
close  tightly,  tying  into  shape.  Bake,  basting 
with  melted  butter  and  hot  water.  Add  cream 
to  the  pan  gravy,  thicken  with  flour  cooked  in 


220  iboxQ  to  Coolt  tt>e0etable0 

butter,  add  a  little  minced  parsley,  pour  over, 
and  serve. 

STUFFED  EGGPLANT— .IV 

Parboil  a  large  eggplant  for  ten  minutes,  then 
plunge  into  salted  ice-water  and  let  stand  for  an 
hour.  Make  a  forcemeat  of  half  a  cupful  of 
minced  boiled  ham,  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  bread 
crumbs,  one  egg  well  beaten,  and  enough  cream 
to  make  a  smooth  paste.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  minced  parsley,  and  onion.  Split  the 
eggplant  lengthwise,  scrape  out  the  pulp,  and 
mix  with  the  stuffing.  Fill  the  shells,  tie 
together,  and  put  into  a  dripping-pan  with  a 
cupful  of  stock.  Cover  and  bake  for  half  an 
hour,  remove  the  string,  and  serve. 

STUFFED  EGGPLANT— V 

Cut  off  the  tops  of  two  small  eggplants 
and  chop  the  inside  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  calf's  liver  and  bread-crumbs,  season  with 
sweet  herbs,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  add  a 
beaten  egg  to  bind.  Fill  the  shells,  cover  with 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  for  half  an 
hour. 

STUFFED  EGGPLANT— VI 

Cut  an  eggplant  in  two  lengthwise,  scoop  out 
the  pulp,  chop  it  fine  and  mix  it  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  bread-crvunbs.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  sugar  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  in 


#orti2«Seven  Mai^d  to  Cooft  JBddpIant  221 

butter,  stirring  constantly.     Fill  the  shells  and 
bake  for  half  an  hour. 

STUFFED  EGGPLANT— VII 

Parboil  an  eggplant  for  ten  minutes,  drain, 
cool,  cut  in  two,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp.  Cook 
the  pulp  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a 
teaspoonful  each  of  minced  onion  and  parsley, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Bind  with  a 
beaten  egg  and  fill  the  shells  with  the  stuffing. 
Sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and 
bake  for  twenty    minutes. 

STUFFED  EGGPLANT— VIII 

Cut  the  eggplant  in  two,  scrape  out  the  inside 
and  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  minced  ham.  Add  water  to  cover.  Boil 
until  soft  and  drain.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls 
each  of  bread-crumbs  and  chopped  onion,  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
season.  Stuff  the  shells,  rub  with  butter,  and 
bake  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Chicken 
or  veal  may  be  used  instead  of  the  ham. 

STUFFED  EGGPLANT— IX 

Cut  a  thick  slice  from  the  top  of  each  eggplant, 
using  six  small  ones.  *Chop  fine  a  small  onion, 
fry  in  butter,  and  add  half  a  dozen  chopped 
mushrooms  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sausage 
meat.  When  the  sausage  meat  is  nearly  cooked, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add   the  eggplant 


222  f)OW  to  Cooh  tt)e0etabfe6 

pulp,  one  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  minced  parsley.  Cook  for  five 
minutes,  fill  the  shells,  replace  the  lids,  cover 
with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  for  twenty 
minutes. 

STUFFED  EGGPLANT— X 

Parboil  an  eggplant  for  fifteen  minutes  in 
salted  water,  then  cut  a  slice  o£E  the  top  and 
scoop  out  the  pulp.  Chop  the  pulp,  and  add  a 
cupful  of  bread-crumbs.  Add  a  small  chopped 
onion  fried  in  butter  or  bacon  fat,  salt  and 
pepper  to  season,  and  enough  stock  or  water  to 
moisten.  Cook  the  stuffing  for  five  minutes, 
take  from  the  fire,  and  add  one  egg  well  beaten. 
Fill  the  eggplant,  cover  with  crumbs,  and  bake 
for  half  an  hour. 

EGGPLANT  STUFFED  WITH  TOMA- 
TOES—I 

Parboil  an  eggplant  for  ten  minutes,  drain, 
cool,  and  cut  in  two  lengthwise.  Scoop  out  the 
pulp  and  mix  with  a  cupful  of  chopped  tomatoes, 
a  minced  green  pepper  freed  from  seeds,  and 
a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  melted  butter,  fill  the  shells,  bind 
together  with  tape,  and  bake,  basting  frequently 
with  melted  butter  and  hot  water.  Take  up  on 
a  hot  platter,  remove  the  strings,  and  poor  a 
hot  Tomato  Sauce  around  the  eggplant. 


jTottiS'Seven  Wa^B  to  Cook  JCggpIant   223 

EGGPLANT  STUFFED   WITH  TOMA- 
TOES—II 

Parboil  the  eggplant,  cut  it  in  two,  and  scoop 
out  the  pulp.  Chop  fine  a  small  onion,  fry 
brown  in  butter,  add  the  eggplant  pulp  and 
half  a  cupful  of  tomatoes.  Cook  for  ten  minutes, 
take  from  the  fire,  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten 
and  enough  cracker-crumbs  to  make  a  smooth 
thick  paste.  Fill  the  shell,  cover  with  crumbs, 
dot  with  butter,  and  bake,  basting  with  stock. 

STUFFED  EGGPLANT  A  L'lTALIENNE— I 

Slit  two  medium-sized  eggplants  lengthwise 
and  fry  until  soft,  cut-side  down.  Chop  fine 
three  slices  of  salt  pork  and  two  onions.  Fry 
in  butter  and  add  two  cupfuls  of  chopped  mush- 
rooms. Cook  for  ten  minutes.  Scoop  out  most 
of  the  pulp  and  add  to  the  cooked  mixture. 
Heat  thoroughly,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  minced  parsley.  Fill  the  eggplants,  sprinkle 
with  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  moisten  with 
olive-oil,  and  bake  brown.  Serve  with  Brown 
Sauce. 

STUFFED  EGGPLANT  A  L'lTALIENNE— II 

Parboil  an  eggplant  for  ten  minutes  and  cool 
in  salted  ice-water.  Split  and  scoop  out  the 
inside.  Rub  the  pulp  through  a  sieve  and  add 
to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  cooked  chicken 
and   blanched   almonds   chopped   fine.     Season 


324  f>ow  to  Cook  Vedetable0 

with  salt  and  pepper,  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  bread-crumbs,  fill  the  shells,  and  bind  to- 
gether. Bake  for  half  an  hour,  basting  with 
stock  or  with  melted  butter  and  hot  water. 
Remove  the  string  and  serve.  When  half  done, 
it  may  be  opened,  brushed  with  melted  butter, 
sprinkled  with  crumbs,  and  browned. 

EGGPLANT  STUFFED  WITH  NUTS 

Boil  an  egg-plant  tmtil  tender,  split,  and  scoop 
out  the  pulp.  Add  a  cupful  of  chopped  nuts, 
one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  bread- 
crumbs, and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Add 
two  eggs  well  beaten,  fill  the  shells,  and  bake 
for  an  hour. 

EGGPLANT  A  LA  CREOLE 

Peel  a  young  eggplant,  cut  it  into  dice,  and 
simmer  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  half  a  cupful 
of  boiling  water.  Drain  and  press  out  the 
liquid.  Chop  fine  two  onions,  fry  in  butter, 
add  the  eggplant,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and 
one  tablespoonful  each  of  minced  parsley  and 
vinegar.  Add  also  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter.  Put  into  a  baking-dish,  cover  with 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  for  twenty- 
five  minutes. 

EGGPLANT  AU  GRATIN 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  a  large  eggplant  and 
scoop  out  the  pulp.     Remove  the  seeds  and  soak 


fott^Se^en  Waw  to  Coofi  jBowUint  335 

the  pulp  for  an  hour  in  salted  water.  Squeeze 
dry  and  chop  coarsely.  Chop  three  onions  fine 
and  cook  for  twenty  minutes  with  a  can  of 
tomatoes,  adding  a  bay-leaf,  a  clove,  and*  two 
sprigs  of  parsley.  Rub  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Soak  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs  in  milk,  squeeze 
dry,  and  mix  with  the  eggplant  pulp  and  half 
of  the  Tomato  Sauce.  Add  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  salt  -  and 
pepper  to  season.  Mix  thoroughly,  fill  the  egg- 
plant, sprinkle  with  crumbs,  and  bake  for  forty 
minutes,  basting  with  olive-oil.  Reheat  the 
remainder  of  the  tomato  pur^e,  seasoning  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  serve  separately 
as  a  sauce. 

EGGPLANT  A  LA  LYONS 

Peel  the  eggplant  and  cut  it  into  thin  slices. 
Peel  and  slice  two  onions  and  fry  brown  in 
butter.  Fry  the  slices  of  eggplant  in  the  same 
fat,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
nutmeg.  Cover  with  stock  and  simmer  until 
tender.  Sprinkle  with  minced  parsley  and 
serve.  The  onions  may  be  omitted  and  the 
sauce  thickened  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten 
with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

EGGPLANT  A  LA  PROVENCE 

Slice  and  soak  two  small  eggplants,  drain, 
dip  in  oil,  and  broil.  Put  into  a  saucepan  rubbed 
with  garlic,  with  a  chopped  onion,  a  tablespoon- 

Z5 


d26  1>ow  to  Coofc  \)e^ctnbUe 

ful  of  butter  or  oil,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  minced 
parsley  and  anchovy  paste,  a  cupful  of  stewed 
and  strained  tomatoes,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
season.  Cook  until  tender  and  serve  on  toast 
or  with  macaroni. 


FIFTEEN  WAYS  TO  COOK  HOMINY 

BOILED  HOMINY— I 

Wash  in  cold  water  and  soak  it  over  night. 
Boil  slowly  in  the  water  in  which  it  has  been 
soaked,  using  a  double  boiler  and  adding  more 
water  to  keep  from  burning.  Drain,  dry,  season 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  moisten  with 
milk  if  desired. 

BOILED  HOMINY— II 

Soak  a  cupful  of  hominy  for  three  hours  in 
warm  water,  drain,  and  cook  in  fresh  boiling 
water  until  tender,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Drain  and  reheat  for  fifteen  minutes  with  a  pint 
of  milk,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cook 
for  fifteen  minutes,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  and  serve. 

BAKED  HOMINY— I 

Rub  through  a  sieve  one  cupful  of  cold  cooked 
hominy.  Add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  season.  When  thoroughly  mixed, 
add  gradually  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  and,  if 
desired,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.     Fold  in  the 

337 


928  f)ow  to  (tooli  Vegetabled 

stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  pour  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish,  and  bake  until  well 
puffed  and  brown. 

BAKED  HOMINY— II 

Wash  a  cupful  of  hominy  in  three  waters  and 
boil  for  twenty  minutes  in  water  to  cover.  Add 
a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  salt  and  one 
cupful  of  milk.  Bake  for  forty  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

HOMINY  CROQUETTES— I 

Wash  a  cupful  of  hominy  through  several 
waters  and  cook  for  three  hours  in  a  double 
boiler,  with  a  quart  of  milk.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  onion- juice,  add  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  mix  thoroughly,  and  cool. 
Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve  with  Tomato  or 
Cheese  Sauce. 

HOMINY  CROQUETTES— II 

To  a  cupful  of  small  hominy  boiled  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and  mix  thor- 
oughly, adding  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft 
paste.  Add  one  egg  well  beaten  and,  if  desired, 
a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Shape  into  croquettes, 
dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

HOMINY  CROQUETTES— III 

Reheat  two  cupfuls  of  cooked  hominy  with 


fifteen  Winw  to  Cooft  1)omini;      239 

two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  Take  from  the 
fire,  mix  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  season, 
and  cool.  Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

HOMINY  CROQUETTES— IV 

Rub  through  a  sieve  two  cupfuls  of  cold 
cooked  hominy,  and  mix  with  two  well-beaten 
Ggg^t  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Add  salt  to  taste  and  beat 
thoroughly.  Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg 
and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

HOMINY  CROQUETTES— V 

Cook  until  soft  in  a  double  boiler  half  a 
cupful  each  of  hominy  and  stock  and  one  and 
one-half  cupfuls  of  milk.  Take  from  the  fire, 
add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  and 
salt,  paprika,  onion-juice,  and  grated  nutmeg 
to  season.  Turn  out  in  a  pie-tin,  cool,  cut 
into  squares,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  deep  fat, 

PRIED  HOMINY— I 

Wash  a  cupful  of  small  hominy  in  cold  water 
and  soak  over  night  in  tepid  water.  Cook  for 
an  hour  in  a  double  boiler,  seasoning  with  salt 
and  pepper,  then  cool  in  a  deep  pan.  Cut  in 
slices,  dredge  with  seasoned  flour,  and  fry  in 
drippings  or  pork  fat.  Or,  dip  in  egg  and 
crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 


330  l)ow  to  Cooft  iDeoetablea 

FRIED  HOMINY— II 

Wet  a  deep  pan  in  cold  water,  pour  into  it  hot 
cooked  hominy  seasoned  with  salt  and  butter, 
and  cool.  Cut  into  slices,  dredge  with  seasoned 
flour,  and  fry  brown  in  salt  pork  fat.  Or,  dip 
in  egg  and  cnimbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

FRIED  HOMINY— III 

Make  cold  boiled  hominy  into  a  smooth  paste 
with  beaten  egg,  butter,  and  milk.  Heat 
thoroughly,  cool,  shape  into  small  cakes,  dredge 
with  seasoned  flour,  and  fry  in  butter.  Or,  fry 
large  hominy  in  seasoned  butter. 

HOMINY  PUFFS 

Mix  thoroughly  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  hominy, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  baking-powder,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  deep  fat  and  fry 
brown. 

HOMINY  FRITTERS 

Rub  two  cupfuls  of  cold  boiled  hominy  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  one  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter.  Add  three  eggs  well  beaten  and  a  cup- 
ful of  flour  which  has  been  sifted  twice  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
baking-powder.     Add  enough  n^lk  Xo  ms^^  ^ 


fifteen  miaiee  to  CooR  1>omfnc      231 

batter  which  will  drop  from  the  spoon  and  fry 
by  spoonfuls  in  deep  fat. 

HOMINY  SOUFFLE 

Mix  together  a  cupful  of  small  hominy  boiled, 
two  cupfuls  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  a  pinch  each  of  sugar  and  salt,  and 
the  yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs  well  beaten. 
When  thoroughly  mixed,  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  and  bake  in  a  buttered  baking- 
dish  until  well  puSed  and  brown. 


EIGHTEEN  WAYS  TO  COOK  LENTILS 

BOILED  LENTILS 

Soak  a  cupful  of  lentils  in  cold  water  over 
night.  Drain,  boil  until  tender,  and  drain. 
Chop  a  small  onion  fine,  fry  in  butter,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  mix  to  a  smooth  paste. 
Add  a  cupful  of  hot  stock  and  cook  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  Reheat  the  lentils  in  the 
sauce,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
little  vinegar  if  desired. 

BAKED  LENTILS 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Pur^e  of  Lentils — I,  turn  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  and  bake  until  brown. 

BAKED  LENTILS  WITH  NUTS 

Mix  a  cupful  of  boiled  lentils  with  half  a  cup- 
ful of  Brazilian  nuts  chopped  fine.  Season  with 
salt  and  grated  onion.  Put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish  with  half  a  cupful  of  stock  or  water. 
Mix  together  two  cupf  uls  of  flour  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  peanut  butter.  Moisten  with  ice- 
water  and  roll  out  in  a  crust  to  cover  the 
baking-dish.     Cover    and    bake    for    an    hour, 

93a 


jeiQbtccn  mass  to  dooft  Xentils      333 

Serve   in   the   same   dish   with   Cream   Sauce 
Drawn-Butter,  or  Tomato  Sauce. 

LENTIL  CROQUETTES 

Soak  over  night  three  cupfuls  of  lentils,  drain, 
and  cook  slowly  for  an  hour  in  boiling  water  to 
cover.  Drain,  press  through  a  colander,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  minced  parsley,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 
a  teaspoonf  ul  of  onion- juice,  and  a  dash  of  grated 
nutmeg.  Cool,  shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in 
egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve  with 
Tomato  Sauce. 

LENTILS  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE 

Reheat  boiled  and  drained  lentils  in  a  well- 
seasoned  Cream  Sauce. 

CURRIED  LENTILS— I 

Chop  fine  three  large  onions,  two  green  peppers, 
and  a  clove  of  garlic.  Brown  half  a  pound  of 
washed  lentils  in  butter,  add  the  chopped  mix- 
ture and  cold  salted  water  to  cover.  Boil  until 
tender.  Drain,  add  two  sliced  onions  fried 
brown,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  curry  powder.  Serve  with  a 
border  of  boiled  rice, 

CURRIED  LENTILS— II 

Soak  a  cupful  of  red  lentils  for  three  or  four 
hours  and  drain.     Slice  an  onion,  fry  it  in  butter, 


a34  Innv  to  Cooft  It>e0etat>le0 

add  the  lentils  and  two  <»qp£iil8  of  baOisg 

or  stock.     Simmer  for  an  hour,  season  with  salt 

and  pepper,  and   add  a  teaspoonful  of  curry 

powder  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.     Simmer 

for  ten  minutes  and  serve  ix\  a  border  of  boiled 

rice. 

LENTILS  AND  RICE 

Chop  an  onion  fine  and  fry  in  butter.  Reheat 
in  the  butter  two  cupfuls  of  boiled  lentils  and 
one  cupful  of  boiled  rice.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  serve. 

LENTIL  ROLLS 

Mix  together  one-half  cupful  each  of  boiled 
lentils,  boiled  rice,  cooked  chopped  ham,  and 
cooked  chicken  or  veal.  Season  to  taste. 
Scald  cabbage  leaves  and  wrap  small  bits  of  the 
mixture  in  each  leaf.  Pack  closely  in  a  buttered 
saucepan,  cover  with  stock,  and  add  a  bay-leaf, 
an  onion  stuck  with  four  cloves,  and  a  blade  of 
mace.  Cook  covered  for  forty-five  minutes. 
Drain,  strain  the  liquid,  and  thicken  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  it  with  flour  browned  in  butter. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  yolk  of  one  egg 
beaten  with  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  tarragon  vinegar. 
Pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

LENTILS  WITH  ONIONS 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  lentils  in  salted  water 
until  tender  and  drain.     Fry  thr^  sliced  o^ipn? 


Bi0bteen  Vllas0  to  Qodk  Xentil6      235 

in  butter,  add  the  drained  lentils,  pepper  and 
salt  to  season,  and  enough  stock  to  moisten. 
Heat  thoroughly  and  serve. 

LENTILS  AND  BACON 

Cook  a  pint  of  lentils  in  water  to  cover,  adding 
a  bay-leaf,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  an  onion  stuffed 
with  three  or  four  cloves.  Fry  a  sliced  onion 
in  butter,  and  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
bacon  cut  into  dice.  Fry  imtil  the  bacon  is 
brown  and  crisp,  add  the  lentils  and  enough 
stock  to  moisten.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  minced  parsley,  heat  thoroughly,  and 
serve. 

PURiE  OF  LENTILS— I 

Soak  a  cupful  of  lentils  over  night,  boil  until 
soft,  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  butter,  moisten  with  milk,  and 
serve. 

pur6e  of  lentils— II 

Soak  a  quart  of  lentils  for  three  hours  and 
cook  slowly  until  soft  in  water  to  cover,  with  a 
bunch  of  parsley,  a  carrot,  an  onion  stuck  with 
three  cloves,  and  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork. 
Remove  the  pork  and  vegetables,  drain,  press 
through  a  sieve,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
minced  parsley.  Add  a  little  butter  and  moisten 
with  stQcJc  jf  too  thickf 


236  Dow  to  Cooli  Vedetable0 

LENTIL  SOUFFLE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Pur6e  of  Lentils — I,  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  four  eggs.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

STEWED  LENTILS 

Soak  a  cupful  of  lentils  over  night  in  cold 
water.  Drain  and  cook  for  an  hour  in  boiling 
water.  Drain  and  reheat  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

SAVORY  LENTILS 

Soak  a  pint  of  lentils  two  hours,  drain,  cover 
with  cold  water,  and  cook  until  tender,  adding  a 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion,  a  little  minced 
parsley,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Drain  and 
saut^  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  little  butter.  Serve 
immediately. 

LENTILS  X  L'EGYPTIENNE— I 

Wash  a  pint  of  lentils  and  soak  over  night. 
Drain  and  cook  until  tender  in  boiling  water. 
Fry  a  chopped  onion  soft  in  butter,  add  the 
lentils  and  an  equal  quantity  of  boiled  rice. 
Heat  thoroughly,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  serve. 

LENTILS  A  L'EGYPTIENNE— II 

Soak  two  cupfuls  of  lentils  over  night,  drain, 


Eighteen  Wa,^  to  Cook  Xenti(0      237 

and  cook  until  soft  in  boiling  water  to  cover. 
Boil  an  equal  quantity  of  rice.  Cook  together 
a  can  of  tomatoes,  a  chopped  onion,  a  bay-leaf, 
and  a  blade  of  mace.  Simmer  slowly  until  it 
has  the  consistency  of  a  thick  sauce.  Drain  the 
lentils,  mix  with  the  rice  and  one  or  two  pounded 
cardamom  seeds.  Press  the  tomato  through  a 
sieve,  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
pour  over  the  lentils,  and  serve. 


EIGHTY  WAYS  TO  COOK  MACARONI 


BUTTERED  MACARONI— I 

Boil  a  pound  of  macaroni  until  tender,  drain, 
and  put  into  a  deep  baking-dish.  Spread  over  it 
half  a  cupful  of  butter  broken  into  bits,  and  one- 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  cheese,  grated.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  mix  thoroughly,  and  bake. 
Or,  serve  without  baking. 

BUTTERED  MACARONI— II 

Arrange  cooked  and  broken  macaroni  on  a 
hot  platter  and  sprinkle  it  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  dry  mustard.  Moisten  with  melted  butter 
and  season  highly  with  grated  cheese,  turning 
with  a  fork.     Serve  without  baking. 

BAKED  MACARONI— I 

Put  half  a  pound  of  cooked  and  broken 
macaroni  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  and  season 
with  melted  butter  and  grated  cheese.  Pour 
over  two  cupfuls  of  hot  milk,  dot  with  butter, 
sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  cheese,  and  bake  for 
half  an  hour. 

238 


£i0btiS  Wnw  to  Coofi  Aacatonl        339 

BAKED  MACARONI— II 

Break  up  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  and  cook 
it  until  tender  in  stock  or  in  water  to  which  a 
teaspoonful  of  beef  extract  has  been  added. 
Drain  and  put  into  a  baking-dish  with  half  a 
cupful  of  the  cooking  liquid  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  broken  into  bits.  Sprinkle  thickly 
with  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  dot  with  butter, 
and  brown  in  the  oven. 

BAKED  MACARONI— III 

Put  into  a  baking-dish  with  three  cupfuls  of 
milk,  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  cooked,  broken, 
and  drained.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  but- 
ter and  bake  for  half  an  hotu-. 

BAKED  MACARONI— IV 

Reheat  cooked  and  drained  macaroni  in 
enough  cream  to  moisten  and  season  highly  with 
equal  parts  of  grated  Parmesan  and  Swiss 
cheese.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  pour 
over  a  little  melted  butter,  and  bake  brown. 
Serve  in  the  same  dish. 

BAKED  MACARONI— V 

Cook  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  in  boiling  salted 
water  to  cover.  Drain,  season  with  a  little 
pepper  and  grated  nutmeg,  and  moisten  with 
Bechamel  Sauce.     Add  half  a  cupful  of  butter 


240  f)ow  to  Codk  Veoetabted 

and  two  ounces  each  of  grated  Parmesan  and 
Gruy^re  cheese.  Put  into  a  baking-dish,  sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese,  and  bake  for  thirty  minutes. 

CREAMED  MACARONI 

Reheat  cooked  and  broken  macaroni  in  Cream 
Sauce  seasoned  highly  with  grated  Parmesan 
cheese.     Add  a  little  powdered  sugar. 

CURRIED  MACARONI 

Reheat  cooked,  drained,  and  broken  macaroni 
in  a  Curry  Sauce. 

DEVILED  MACARONI 

Reheat  cooked  and  broken  macaroni  in  Cream 
Sauce,  seasoning  highly  with  salt,  red  pepper,  and 
mustard.     Serve  with  grated  cheese. 

MACARONI  CROQUETTES— I 

Chop  fine  a  cupful  of  cooked  and  broken 
macaroni  and  a  slice  of  cooked  ham.  Mix  with 
a  little  very  thick  Cream  Sauce  and  season  with 
onion-juice,  salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  and  a 
pinch  of  sugar.  Add  the  yolks  of  three  beaten 
eg^gs  and  cool.  Add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

MACARONI  CROQUETTES— II 

Chop  fine  a  cupful  of  cold  cooked  macaroni 
and  reheat  in  a  cupful  of  very  thick  Cream  Sauce . 


£f0btc  WinB  to  Coofc  Aacaronf        241 

Add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  grated  cheese 
and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Cool, 
shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  keep  on  ice  for  two  hours.  Fry  in  deep  fat 
and  serve  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

MACARONI  CROQUETTES— III 

Chop  fine  a  pint  of  cold  cooked  macaroni  and 
reheat  with  a  little  very  thick  Cream  Sauce  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  grated  cheese.  Take  from 
the  fire,  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  well  beaten,  and 
cool.  Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

MACARONI  CROQUETTES— IV 

Boil  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  in 
salted  water  until  tender.  Drain  and  reheat 
with  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter,  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  and  minced  cooked  tongue. 
Spread  on  a  buttered  platter,  cover  with  buttered 
paper,  press  under  a  weight,  and  cool.  Cut  into 
strips,  dip  in  grated  cheese,  then  into  beaten  egg, 
then  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

MACARONI  CROQUETTES— V 

Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  for 
thirty  minutes  in  salted  water.  Drain  and 
reheat  with  a  little  very  thick  Cream  Sauce. 
Take  from  the  fire,  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  cool.  Shape  into  croquettes, 
dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
z6 


1 


242  IbOW  to  COOh  \)CQCULblCB 

Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce  and  grated  cheese, 
or  with  Cream  Sauce  to  which  grated  cheese 
has  been  added. 

MACARONI  CROQUETTES— VI 

Cook  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  in  salted  water. 
Drain  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  each  of  butter  and  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  season, 
and  enough  thick  AUemande  Sauce  to  moisten. 
Mix  thoroughly,  turn  into  a  small  buttered 
square  tin  pan,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and 
cool  under  a  weight.  Cut  into  squares,  dip  in 
grated  cheese,  then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  fat  to  cover.  Serve  with  Tomato 
Sauce.     Noodles  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

MACARONI  CROQUETTES— VII 

Cook  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  in 
salted  water,  drain,  and  mix  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and 
enough  AUemande  Sauce  to  moisten.  Turn 
into  a  small  buttered  square  tin  pan.  Cover 
with  buttered  paper,  then  with  another  pan,  and 
cool  under  a  weight.  When  cold  cut  into  squares 
dip  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  deep  fat. 

ESCALLOPED  MACARONI— I 

Fry  separately  in  butter  two  chopped  onions 


l^idbti^  HSitiW  to  (took  /ISacaroni        243 

and  half  a  pound  of  chopped  mushrooms.  Mix 
cooked  and  drained  macaroni  with  Tomato 
Sauce  and  add  the  mushrooms  and  onions.  Mix 
thoroughly  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  American 
cheese  grated,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Put  into  a  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with  crumbs, 
and  brown  for  ten  minutes  in  the  oven. 

ESCALLOPED  MACARONI— II 

Fill  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  alternate 
layers  of  cooked  and  broken  macaroni  and  sliced 
or  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs.  Season  each  layer 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  mustard.  Fill  the  dish 
with  milk,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and 
bake  until  the  crumbs  are  brown. 

STEWED  MACARONI— I 

Reheat  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  cooked  and 
broken  macaroni  with  sufficient  milk  to  moisten. 
Season  with  salt  and  red  pepper,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  one-quarter  of  a  pound 
of  grated  cheese.     Serve  very  hot. 

STEWED  MACARONI— II 

Boil  the  macaroni  until  soft  in  salted  water  to 
cover,  drain,  season,  moisten  with  cream,  reheat, 
and  serve. 

STEWED  MACARONI— III 

Put  a  pound  of  cooked  and  broken  macaroni 
into  a  saucepan  with  half  a  cupful  of  butter  and 


344  Do\v  to  Cook  Ve0eta&(e0 

salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  season. 
Moisten  with  equal  quantities  of  beef  gravy  and 
Allemande  Sauce,  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  and  serve. 

STEWED  MACARONI— IV 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  in  salted  water 
for  twenty  minutes,  drain,  and  rinse  in  cold 
water.  Season  a  cupful  of  stewed  and  strained 
tomatoes  with  butter,  sugar,  paprika,  and  salt. 
Add  three  tablespoonfuls  each  of  almonds 
blanched  and  chopped  and  beef  stock.  Bring 
to  the  boil  and  reheat  the  macaroni  in  the  sauce. 
Serve  with  grated  cheese. 

TIMBALE  OF  MACARONI— I 

Beat  three  eggs  until  light,  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  milk  or  stock,  and  salt, 
pepper,  and  grated  onion  to  season.  Butter  a 
large  timbale  mould  and  nearly  fill  it  with  cooked 
and  broken  macaroni.  .  Pour  the  sauce  over, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  cover,  and 
steam  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Turn  out  and 
serve  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

TIMBALE   OF  MACARONI— II 

Chop  fine  the  white  meat  of  a  cooked  chicken 
and  two  slices  of  ham.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  a  cupful  of  cream, 
and  three  eggs  well  beaten .  Line  a  plain  buttered 
mould  with   cooked    macaroni   and  mix   some 


Bi0bt!^  1iQlaig0  to  Cooft  Aacatoni        245 

chopped  cooked  macaroni  with  the  meat.  Fill 
the  mould,  cover,  and  steam  for  forty-five  min- 
utes.    Serve  with  any  preferred  sauce. 

TIMBALE  OF  MACARONI— III 

Mix  together  half  a  pound  of  chopped  cooked 
ham,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs, 
one  egg  well  beaten,  enough  stock  to  moisten 
to  a  smooth  paste,  and  Worcestershire  and 
mushroom  catsup  to  season.  Butter  a  timbale 
mould,  line  it  with  boiled  macaroni,  and  fill 
with  the  stuffing.  Steam  for  an  hour  and  a  half. 
Take  out  of  the  mould,  pour  over  a  Cream  or 
Tomato  Sauce,  and  serve. 

MACARONI  AU  GRATIN 

Butter  a  deep  baking-dish  and  fill  with  cooked 
macaroni,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  grated 
cheese,  and  seasoning  with  pepper  and  dots  of 
butter.  Cover  the  top  with  cheese  (Pannesan, 
which  may  be  mixed  with  Swiss),  dot  with 
butter,  and  bake  brown.  Serve  in  the  same  dish. 
Milk  or  cream  to  cover  may  be  poured  over 
before  baking. 

MACARONI  RAREBIT 

Cut  fine  one  cupful  of  cooked  macaroni  and 
reheat  in  butter.  Add  a  scant  cupful  of  grated 
cheese  and  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  cook  until  the  eggs  set, 
Serve  on  toast. 


346  Dovp  to  Cook  iDegetables 

MACARONI  WITH  ASPARAGUS 

Cook  asparagus  in  boiling  salted  water  until 
tender.  Drain,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter.  Take  up  on  a  platter  and  surround 
with  macaroni  cooked  in  stock.  Sprinkle  with 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  serve. 

MACARONI  WITH  BROWN  BUTTER 

Reheat  cooked  and  drained  macaroni  in  melted 
butter,  cooking  until  the  butter  browns.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  season  highly  with  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  and  serve. 

MACARONI  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE— I 

Cook  together  two  tablespoonf  tils  each  of  but- 
ter and  flour,  add  a  cupful  of  stock,  and  cook 
until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  each  of 
tomato  catsup  and  grated  onion,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  kitchen  bouquet.  Add  a  clove  of 
garlic  chopped  very  fine  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  cooked  and  broken  macaroni.  Cook 
in  a  double  boiler  for  twenty  minutes  and  serve. 

MACARONI  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE— II 

Cook  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  butter 
and  add  one  cupful  each  of  brown  stock  and 
stewed  and  strained  tomato.  Cook  until  smooth 
and  thick,  stirring  constantly,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.     Arrange  cooked  and  broken 


iBiQhtg  Was0  to  Oooft  Aacaronf        247 

« 

macaroni  in  a  buttered  baking-dish  in  layers, 
alternating  with  sauce  and  grated  Parmesan 
cheese.  Sprinkle  with  cheese  and  bake  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Two  cupfuls  of  stock  may  be 
used  and  the  tomato  omitted. 

MACARONI  AND  CHEESE 

Put  half  a  poimd  of  cooked  and  broken 
macaroni  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  seasoning 
each  layer  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  plenty 
of  grated  cheese.  When  the  dish  is  full,  pom- 
over  half  a  cupful  of  milk  or  cream,  bake  for 
half  an  hovu",  and  serve  in  the  baking-dish. 

MACARONI  IN  CHEESE  SHELL 

Fill  the  shell  of  an  Edam  or  pineapple  cheese 
with  cooked  and  broken  macaroni  mixed  with 
Cream  Sauce.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter,  and  bake  brown. 

MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE  SAUCE 

Cook  in  a  saucepan  a  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  a  cupful  of  Swiss  cheese.  As  soon 
as  the  cheese  is  melted,  turn  the  cooked  and 
broken  macaroni  into  a  serving-dish,  pour 
over  the  sauce,  mix  thoroughly  with  a  fork,  and 
serve. 

MACARONI  WITH  CHESTNUTS 

Peel  and  pound  to  a  paste  a  dozen  roasted 
chestnuts.     Season  with  salt  and  mix  with  half 


248  fKmi^  to  dooft  X)CQetnblCB 

a  pound  of  cooked  and  drained  macaroni. 
Add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  onion- juice.  Heat  thoroughly,  mois- 
tening with  milk  or  stock  if  necessary.  Put  into 
a  baking-dish,  sprinkle  thickly  with  crumbs  and 
grated  cheese,  pour  over  melted  butter,  and 
brown  in  the  oven. 

MACARONI  WITH  SAUCE  PIQUANTE 

Thicken  a  pint  of  beef  stock  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  browned  in  butter.  Add  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup,  six  drops 
of  Tabasco  Sauce,  a  teaspoonful  of  kitchen 
bouquet,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  paprika. 
Reheat  cooked  and  broken  macaroni  or  spa- 
ghetti in  the  sauce  and  put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  grated 
cheese,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  until 
brown. 

MACARONI  AND  CHICKEN  SOUFFL^ 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  in  salted  water 
until  tender,  drain,  rinse  in  cold  water,  and  cut 
into  very  small  pieces.  Thicken  two  cupfuls 
of  chicken  stock  with  a  tablespoonful  each  of 
butter  and  flour  cooked  together  and  add  to  it 
a  cupful  of  cooked  minced  chicken  and  macaroni. 
Add  a  well-beaten  egg  and  pepper  and  salt  to 
season.  Turn  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 
Serve  with  grated  cheese. 


£iabt)g  Waw  to  CooR  Aacaroni      349 

MACARONI  WITH  CREAM 

Boil  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  macaroni 
in  salted  water  with  a  tablespoonf ul  of  butter, 
one  onion,  and  two  cloves.  Drain  and  reheat 
with  one-third  of  a  pound  each  of  butter,  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  and  Gruy^re  cheese.  Season 
with  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg,  add  a  cupful  of 
white  stock  and  half  a  cupful  of  cream.  Heat 
thorotighly  and  serve. 

MACARONI  WITH  GRAVY 

Reheat  veal  gravy  and  season  with  tomato 
catsup  and  add  a  little  chopped  cooked  ham. 
Arrange  cooked  and  broken  macaroni  in  a  baking- 
dish,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  grated  Parmesan 
cheese.  Pour  over  enough  of  the  gravy  to 
moisten,  heat  thoroughly,  and  serve. 

MACARONI  AND  HAM— I 

Boil  macaroni  until  tender  in  stock,  cooking 
until  the  stock  is  nearly  absorbed.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  mix  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  or  more  of  chopped  ham  or 
bacon  fried  crisp.  Sprinkle  with  fried  bread- 
crumbs and  serve. 

MACARONI  AND  HAM— II 

Reheat  two  cupfuls  of  cooked  and  broken 
macaroni  in  Cream  Sauce,  add  a  pinch  of  soda 
and  a  cupful  of  chopped,  cooked  ham.     Season 


250  1)ow  to  Cooft  loegetablcd 

with  dry  mustard  and  cayenne.  Add  one  egg  well 
beaten,  turn  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  cover 
with  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  and  bake  covered 
for  half  an  hour,  then  tmcover  and  brown. 

MACARONI  AND  MUSHROOMS 

Chop  separately  an  onion  and  three  slices  of 
bacon.  Fry  and  add  half  a  cupful  of  canned 
tomatoes  and  half  a  cupful  of  mushrooms.  If 
dried  mushrooms  are  used  they  must  be  soaked 
for  three  or  fovu*  hours.  Sprinkle  a  large  platter 
with  grated  cheese  and  lay  upon  it  the  cooked 
macaroni  fuU  length.  Cover  with  grated  cheese, 
pour  over  the  sauce  and  mushrooms,  sprinkle 
with  cheese,  and  serve. 

MACARONI  AND  OYSTERS 

Arrange  in  alternate  layers  in  a  baking-dish 
cooked,  broken,  and  drained  macaroni,  and 
oysters,  seasoning  with  dots  of  butter  and  pepper 
and  salt.  Beat  together  the  liquor  drained  from 
the  oysters,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  milk,  and 
two  eggs.  Pour  over  the  macaroni,  cover  with 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 
Or,  spread  over  the  top  a  beaten  egg  mixed  to 
a  smooth  paste  with  crumbs. 

MACARONI  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Boil  the  macaroni  until  tender  in  salted  water, 
drain,  and  mix  with  Tomato  Sauce.  Serve 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  separately. 


Si0bti2  miase  to  Cooft  Aacatonf      251 

MACARONI  AND  TOMATOES— I 

Cook  together  for  half  an  hour  a  can  of  toma- 
toes and  a  chopped  onion.  Rub  through  a  sieve. 
Arrange  cooked  and  broken  macaroni  in  a  but- 
tered baking-dish,  sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  cover  with  the  sauce,  and  repeat  until 
the  dish  is  full,  having  sauce  on  top.  Cover 
with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  covered 
for  half  an  hour,  then  uncover  and  brown. 

MACARONI  AND  TOMATOES— II 

Mix  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  cooked  and 
broken  macaroni  with  one  cupful  each  of  brown 
gravy  and  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes.  Add 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
season,  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.  Cook  in  a  slow  oven  for 
half  an  hour  and  serve  in  the  baking-dish. 

MACARONI  A  L'AMERICAINE 

Put  half  a  pound  of  cooked  and  broken  maca- 
roni into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  alternating  with 
grated  cheese  and  dots  of  butter.  Cover  with 
crumbs,  pour  over  a  cupful  of  cream  or  milk, 
to  which  a  beaten  egg  may  be  added,  and  bake 
for  half  an  hour.  Or,  mix  with  Cream  Sauce  or 
Tomato  Sauce. 

MACARONI  A  L'ANGLAISE 
Reheat  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  cooked  and 


353  l>ow  to  Qook  lX>C§CtBblCB 

broken  macaroni  for  twenty  minutes  with  one 
cupful  each  of  milk  and  stock.  Beat  together 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream,  and  half  a  cupful  of  the  water  in  which  the 
macaroni  was  boiled.  Put  the  macaroni  and 
its  liquid  in  a  baking-dish,  pour  over  the  beaten 
egg,  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  cheese,  dot 
with  butter,  and  bake  for  ten  minutes. 

MACARONI  A  LA  BOLOGNA— I 

Parboil  in  salted  water  half  a  pound  of  maca- 
roni, drain,  add  white  stock  to  cover,  and  cook 
until  the  liquid  is  nearly  absorbed.  Put  into 
a  shallow  baking-dish,  sprinkle  thickly  with 
grated  cheese,  and  add  half  a  pound  of  fried 
mushrooms.  Heat  thoroughly  in  the  oven  and 
serve  with  spinach. 

MACARONI  X  LA  BOLOGNA— II 

Boil  well-washed  spinach  in  salted  water, 
drain,  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Reheat, 
moistening  with  a  little  stock.  Arrange  the 
spinach  in  layers  in  a  baking-dish,  alternating 
with  cooked  and  broken  macaroni  and  sprinkling 
each  layer  thickly  with  grated  cheese.  Bake 
for  forty-five  minutes  and  serve  in  the  baking- 
dish. 

MACARONI  X  LA  BECHAMEL— I 

Reheat  cooked  and  broken  macaroni  in  B^h- 
amel  Sauce.     Add  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  stock 


Bfdbts  WtiVB  to  CooFt  Aacatoni      253 

or  gravy,  season  with  melted  butter  and  powdered 
cinnamon. 

MACARONI  A  LA  BicHAMEI^-II 

Cook  one-third  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  in 
salted  water,  drain,  and  put  into  a  baking- 
dish.  Dot  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  thickly 
with  grated  cheese.  Beat  two  eggs  with  two 
cupfuls  of  milk,  pour  over  the  macaroni, 
and  bake  until  the  custard  is  firm.  Cover 
with  Cream  Sauce,  sprinkle  with  parsley, 
and  bake  four  minutes  longer.  Serve  in  the 
same  dish. 

MACARONI  A  LA  CREME 

Reheat  cooked,  drained,  and  broken  maca- 
roni in  Cream  Sauce,  seasoning  with  cay- 
enne. Season  highly  with  grated  cheese  and 
serve.  Or,  bake  in  a  buttered  baking-dish 
with  crimibs  on  top.  The  cheese  may  be 
omitted. 

MACARONI  X  LA  FLORENCE 

Cook  together  for  forty  minutes  a  can  of 
tomatoes,  a  cupful  of  water,  a  sliced  onion,  a 
bunch  of  parsley,  and  two  ounces  of  fat  bacon. 
Press  through  a  sieve,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  boil 
for  five  minutes.  Reheat  cooked  and  broken 
macaroni  in  the  sauce  and  serve  with  plenty  of 
grated  cheese. 


254  1)0^  to  Cook  tt'edctabte^ 


\ 


MACARONI  A  LA  GALLI 

Rub  through  a  fine  sieve  a  large  can  of  to- 
matoes and  simmer  for  three  hours  or  until  as 
thick  as  jelly.  Chop  fine  half  a  pound  of  salt 
pork  and  a  large  onion  and  fry  brown  and  crisp. 
Mix  with  the  tomatoes,  season  with  salt  and 
cayenne,  and  pour  over  cooked  macaroni.  Serve 
with  grated  cheese. 

MACARONI  A  LA  GENOA 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  for  twenty 
minutes  in  salted  water.  Drain,  add  four 
cupfuls  of  stock,  and  cook  until  the  liquid  is 
absorbed.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a 
teaspoonful  of  French  mustard,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  grated  cheese,  a  teaspoonful  of  onion- 
juice,  and  cayenne  pepper  to  season.  Mix 
thoroughly,  cover  with  cnimbs,  and  bake  until 
brown. 

MACARONI  A  LA  GENEVA 

Boil  half  a  dozen  pork  sausages  in  stock,  drain, 
cool,  and  slice.  Arrange  in  a  baking-dish  with 
alternate  layers  of  cooked  and  broken  macaroni, 
and  sprinkle  each  layer  thickly  with  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.  Moisten  with  stock  or  veal 
gravy,  cover,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

MACARONI  A  LA  GRECQUE 
Boil  a   quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  in 


£fdbti?  tmaisd  to  Coofc  Aacatont      255 

well-seasoned  stock  to  cover.  Skin  four  mutton 
kidneys,  saut^  in  butter,  drain,  and  chop  fine. 
Cook  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  brown  in  the  same 
fat,  add  a  cupful  of  stock,  and  cook  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  Reheat  the  chopped  kidneys 
in  the  sauce  for  ten  minutes,  seasoning  with 
cayenne  and  onion-juice.  Add  the  macaroni 
and  cook  slowly  until  the  gravy  has  been  ab- 
sorbed.    Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

MACARONI  A  L'lTALIENNE— I 

Boil  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  macaroni 
until  tender  in  salted  water,  adding  a  small 
piece  of  butter.  Drain  and  reheat  with  a  little 
melted  butter,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper, 
grated  nutmeg,  and  one-quarter  of  a  pound  each 
of  grated  Gruydre  and  Parmesan  cheese.  Mix 
with  AUemande  Sauce  and  beef  gravy,  heat 
thoroughly,  and  serve. 

MACARONI  A  L'lTALIENNE— II 

Cook  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  broken 
macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover,  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  small  onion,  and  two 
cloves.  Drain,  remove  the  onion,  reheat  in 
Tomato  Sauce,  add  two  tablespoonf uls  of  Sherry, 
and  serve  with  plenty  of  grated  cheese. 

MACARONI  A  L'lTALIENNE— III 

Boil  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni 
in  salted  water  until  tender.     Drain  and  add  one 


256  Dow  to  Cook  IDegetablcd 

cupful  of  Cream  Sauce.  Add  two  tablespoonf uls 
of  made  mustard,  and  pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne 
to  season.  Add  one-half  pound  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  heat  thoroughly,  and  serve. 

MACARONI  A  L'lTALIENNB— IV 

Boil  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  macaroni, 
drain,  and  reheat  with  half  a  cupful  each  of 
Tomato  and  Madeira  Sauces  and  one-fourth 
of  a  pound  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Season 
with  pepper  and  nutmeg  and  cook  slowly  for  ten 
minutes.     Serve  with  grated  cheese  separately. 

MACARONI  X  L'lTALIENNE—V 

Reheat  boiled  and  drained  macaroni  in  melted 
butter,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  grated  cheese. 
Keep  stirring  until  the  cheese  is  melted,  but 
do  not  let  it  cook  as  the  cheese  will  turn  oily. 

MACARONI  A  L'lTALIENNB— VI 

Cook  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  in  boiling 
salted  water  with  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Drain  and 
reheat  with  a  cupful  of  rich  stock  and  simmer 
until  the  stock  is  absorbed.  Add  gradually  a 
tablespoonf  ul  of  butter  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  grated  cheese,  either  Parmesan  or  Swiss. 

MACARONI  A  LA  MADRID 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  in  salted  water 
until  transparent,  drain,  and  rinse  in  cold  acidu- 
lated water.     Reheat  with  a  cupful  of  meat  or 


£idbtis  tK&ac6  to  (took  ASacatoni      257 

chicken  gravy  and  a  cupful  of  stewed  and  strained 
tomatoes.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion, 
a  green  pepper  seeded  and  chopped,  a  pinch  of 
sugar,  and  salt,  cayenne,  and  grated  nutmeg  to 
season.  SinMner  for  half  an  hour  and  serve 
in  a  hot  dish  which  has  been  rubbed  with  garlic. 

MACARONI  A  LA  MILANAISE— I 

Chop  fine  two  ounces  each  of  raw  ham  and 
veal.  Fry  in  butter  with  a  chopped  onion  and  a 
carrot,  then  add  one  wineglassful  of  White  wine 
and  stock  to  cover.  Add  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  a  cupful  of  Tomato  Sauce,  and  a  few 
chopped  mushrooms.  Simmer  slowly  for  two 
hours  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Mix  cooked  and 
drained  macaroni  with  the  sauce  and  put  into  a 
baking-dish  in  layers  alternating  with  thin  slices 
of  American  cheese.  Sprinkle  with  grated 
Parmesan,  dust  with  powdered  cinnamon,  cover, 
and  bake  for  an  hour. 

MACARONI  X  LA  MILANAISE— II 

Boil  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  large  maca- 
roni for  twenty  minutes  in  salted  water,  adding 
a  little  butter.  Drain  and  put  into  a  flat  sauce- 
pan with  salt,  red  and  white  pepper,  and  grated 
nutmeg  to  season.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  chopped 
cooked  beef  tongue,  a  cupful  of  shredded  mush- 
rooms, three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  two- 
thirds  of  a  cupful  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Add 
a  cupful  of  Bechamel  Sauce,  heat  thoroughly, 

17 


258  f)ow  to  Cooh  tt)edetab(e0 

and  add  one  cupful  each  of  beef  gravy  and 
Tomato  Sauce.  Heat  thoroughly,  sprinkle  with 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  serve.  The  beef 
gravy  may  be  omitted. 

MACARONI  A  LA  MILANAISE— III 

Cook  together  three  tablespoonf uls  of  butter 
and  two  of  flour.  Add  two  cupfuls  of  white 
stock  and  cook  until  smooth  and  thick,  stirring 
constantly.  Add  a  slice  each  of  carrot  and 
onion  and  pepper  and  salt  to  season.  Simmer 
for  twenty  minutes,  add  one  cupful  of  cream 
or  milk,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Cook  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  broken  macaroni  in  salted  water 
until  soft,  drain,  and  mix  with  the  sauce,  adding 
half  a  cupful  of  canned  mushrooms  or  the  same 
quantity  of  fresh  mushrooms  sautdd  in  butter. 
Cook  for  five  minutes  and  serve. 

MACARONI  A  LA  NEAPOLITAN— I 

« 

Cook  a  can  of  tomatoes  for  fifteen  minutes 
with  half  a  cupful  each  of  chopped  cooked  ham 
and  sliced  mushrooms.  Add  half  a  cupful  of 
grated  Parmesan  or  Swiss  cheese  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  and  a  little  sugar. 
Reheat  cooked  and  broken  macaroni  in  the 
sauce  and  serve  with  plenty  of  grated  cheese. 

MACARONI  A  LA  NEAPOLITAN— II 

Arrange  cooked,  drained,  and  broken  macaroni 
in  layers  in  a  baking-dish,  sprinkling  each  layer 


£idbts  Wiaw  to  Cooft  Aacatoni      359 

with  grated  cheese.  Moisten  with  stock  or 
gravy,  povir  over  half  a  cupful  of  melted  butter, 
heat  thoroughly,  and  serve. 

MACARONI  A  LA  NEAPOLITAN— III 

Chop  fine  an  onion  and  a  slice  of  raw  ham  and 
fry  in  butter.  Add  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  two 
cupfuls  of  Espagnole  Sauce.  Boil  for  twenty 
minutes  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Reheat  a 
pound  of  boiled  macaroni  in  melted  butter, 
seasoning  with  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg.  Put 
into  a  baking-dish  in  layers,  alternating  with 
the  sauce  and  sprinkling  each  layer  with  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.  Heat  thoroughly,  pour  over 
melted  and  brown  butter,  and  serve. 

MACARONI  X  LA  NEAPOLITAN— IV 

Cook  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  in  salted 
water  without  breaking.  Drain  and  arrange  full 
length  on  a  platter.  Thicken  a  pint  of  stewed 
and  strained  tomato  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
batter  and  one  of  flour  cooked  together.  Season 
the  sauce  with  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt,  and 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 
Pour  the  sauce  over  the  macaroni  and  pass 
grated  cheese  with  it. 

MACARONI  X  LA  NAPLES— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Macaroni  k  I'ltalienne — II.  and  add  half  a 
dozen  mushrooms  cut  fine  and  fried,  two  slices 


26o  f>ow  to  CoQlk  Vegetabled 

of  smoked  cooked  beef  tongue  cut  in  shreds,  and 
half  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese. 

MACARONI  A  LA  NAPLES— II 

Cook  half  a  poimd  of  broken  macaroni  in 
boiling  salted  water,  drain,  and  rinse  in  cold 
water.  Butter  a  baking-dish  and  cover  the 
bottom  with  macaroni.  Season  with  salt, 
cayenne,  and  dots  of  butter.  Sprinkle  thickly 
with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  repeat  until 
the  dish  is  full,  having  cheese  on  top.  Bring  to 
the  boil  a  cupful  of  milk,  a  teaspoonf ul  of  butter, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard,  and  pepper 
and  salt  to  season.  Pour  over  the  macaroni, 
cover,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour,  then  remove 
the  cover  and  brown. 

MACARONI  A  LA  PALERMO 

Chop  an  onion  fine  and  fry  it  in  butter,  dredge 
with  fiour,  and  add  half  a  can  of  strained  tomato, 
and  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar  to  season.  Cook  for 
twenty  minutes.  Strain  the  sauce  and  add  one 
cupful  each  of  cooked  macaroni,  chopped  ham  and 
chicken.  Add  also  three  green  peppers,  seeded, 
shredded,  and  boiled  until  tender.  Thicken  with 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  smooth  with  half  a 
cupful  of  hot  milk  or  stock.  Mix  thoroughly 
and  serve  very  hot. 

MACARONI  X  LA  REINE 

Boil  a  pint  of  cream  and  add  to  it  ten  ounces 


JBiQbt^  Win^  to  Cooft  Aacaronf       261 

of  white  cheese.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne 
and  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
The  cheese  should  be  sliced  very  thin.  Stir  the 
cream  constantly  until  the  cheese  is  dissolved. 
Cut  bread  into  dice  and  fry  pale  brown  in  deep 
fat.  Pour  the  sauce  over  cooked  and  broken 
macaroni,  cover  with  the  fried  bread,  and  serve. 

MACARONI  A  LA  ROMA 

Boil  and  drain  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of 
macaroni.  Chop  fine  the  cooked  white  meat  of 
a  chicken  and  three  or  four  slices  of  boiled  ham. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  Parmesan 
cheese.  Mix  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  add  half  a  cupful  of  cream  and  the 
stiffly  beaten  white  of  one  egg.  Mix  with  the 
macaroni,  turn  into  a  buttered  mould,  and 
steam  for  an  hour. 

MACARONI  X  LA  SOLFERINO 

Chop  fine  an  onion  and  a  slice  of  raw  ham  and 
fry  brown  in  oil.  Add  a  pint  of  Tomato  Sauce 
and  reheat.  Mix  with  cooked  and  broken 
macaroni  and  serve  with  grated  cheese. 

MACARONI  A  LA  WALDORF 

Reheat  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  beef  or 
veal  gravy  with  half  a  cupful  of  Tomato  Sauce. 
Pour  over  cooked  and  broken  macaroni  and 
sprinkle  with  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs,  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 


NINETY-FIVE   WAYS   TO   COOK 
MUSHROOMS 

BROILED  MUSHROOMS— I 

Dip  cleaned  and  peeled  mushrooms  into 
melted  butter,  put  on  ice  for  fifteen  minutes,  and 
broil.  Serve  with  melted  butter  and  lemon- 
juice.  Or,  broil,  basting  with  bacon  fat.  If  the 
mushrooms  are  strongly  flavored  they  may  be 
soaked  in  cold  salted  water  for  a  few  minutes 
before  broiling. 

BROILED  MUSHROOMS— II 

Peel  and  remove  the  skins  from  large  mush- 
rooms. Broil  on  a  buttered  gridiron  inside  up. 
Season  and  serve  on  buttered  toast.  Melted 
butter  mixed  with  minced  parsley  and  chives 
and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  may  be 
served  separately  if  desired,  or  melted  butter 
and  lemon-juice. 

BROILED  MUSHROOMS— III 

Fry  separately  in  melted  butter  large  fresh 
mushrooms  and  fresh  mushrooms  chopped. 
Add  cream  to  the  minced  mushrooms,    using 

263 


'Mnct^tffivc  HQla^  to  Cooft  Auabtooma  263 

enough  to  cover,  and  simmer  for  ten  minutes. 
Spread  the  minced  mixture  on  buttered  toast 
and  lay  a  large  broiled  mushroom  on  each  slice. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and,  if  desired,  a 
little  grated  nutmeg  or  mace. 

BROILED  BEEFSTEAK  MUSHROOM 

Broil  a  thick  slice  of  beefsteak  mushroom  on 
a  buttered  gridiron,  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  melted  butter,  and  pour  over  a  sauce  made 
of  one  tablespoonf ul  of  vinegar  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  Worcestershire  Sauce  seasoned  highly  with 
paprika. 

BAKED  MUSHROOMS— I 

Peel  large  fresh  mushrooms  and  put  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish  inside  up.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  put  a  small  lump  of  butter 
on  each  one.  Bake  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in 
a  quick  oven,  basting  frequently  with  melted 
butter.  Add  a  few  drops  of  lemon- juice  and 
serve  hot  on  the  same  dish.  A  little  mace 
and  minced  parsley  may  be  added  to  the 
seasoning. 

BAKED  MUSHROOMS— II 

Peel,  stem,  and  wash  a  dozen  large  mush- 
rooms. Put  into  a  buttered  dripping-pan 
inside  up.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dot 
with  butter,  and  pour  over  two-thirds  cupful  of 
cream.    Bake  for  ten  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  and 


264  Dow  to  Cooft  It)e0etable0 

serve  on  toast  with  the  pan-gravy  poured  over. 
The  cream  may  be  omitted  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter  used  instead. 

BAKED  MUSHROOMS— III 

Clean  and  trim  large  fresh  mushrooms  and 
put  into  acidulated  water.  Toast  circles  of 
bread,  dip  quickly  into  hot  water  or  cream,  and 
put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish.  Butter  the 
toast  and  put  a  large  mushroom  on  each  slice 
inside  up.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dot 
with  butter,  cover,  and  bake  for  eight  or  ten 
minutes.  Serve  immediately.  Each  mushroom- 
cup  may  be  filled  with  cream  and  baked  under 
jelly-glasses.  Do  not  remove  the  glass  until  the 
moment  of  serving. 

BAKED  MUSHROOMS— IV 

Make  a  forcemeat  of  chopped  cooked  chicken 
and  minced  mushrooms,  adding  enough  chicken 
stock  to  moisten.  Butter  a  baking-dish  and  fill 
it  with  large  fresh  mushrooms  inside  up.  Fill  the 
mushrooms  and  the  space  between  them  with 
the  forcemeat,  dot  with  butter,  and  add  enough 
cooking  stock  to  make  it  very  moist.  Cover 
with  very  thin  slices  of  bacon  and  bake 
covered  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  uncover  and 
brown. 

BAKED  STUFFED  MUSHROOMS— I 

Chop  fine  the  stalks  of  a  do^en  mushfopmi^ 


'§iinct^'*fivc  Waw  to  Oooft  Att6btoom0  965 

with  a  small  onion  and  fry  in  butter.  Dredge 
with  flour,  add  a  cupful  or  more  of  stock — 
chicken  preferred, — and  cook  until  smooth  and 
thick,  stirring  constantly.  Season  with  pepper, 
salt,  minced  parsley,  and,  if  desired,  grated 
nutmeg.  Put  the  mushrooms  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  inside  up,  fill  with  the  mixture, 
cover  with  crumbs,  and  bake.  Serve  with 
Bspagnole  Sauce,  or  sprinkle  with  lemon-juice. 

BAKED  STUFFED  MUSHROOMS— II 

Soak  three  tablespoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs  in 
half  a  cupful  of  stock.  Add  three-quarters  of  a 
cupful  of  chopped  cooked  chicken,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
onion  to  season.  Peel  and  trim  large  fresh 
mushrooms  and  put  in  acidulated  water.  Drain, 
fill  with  the  stuffing,  cover  with  crumbs,  dot 
with  butter,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  baking-pan 
for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

BAKED  MUSHROOMS  AU  GRATIN 

Peel  a  pound  of  large  fresh  mushrooms  and 
chop  the  stems  and  all  but  six  of  the  largest 
mushrooms.  Fry  the  mixture  in  butter  and 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup  or 
grated  cheese.  Fill  the  large  mushrooms  with 
the  stuffing,  cover  with  crumbs,  and  bake  about 
fifteen  minutes.  Serve  on  toast  with  Brown 
Sauce  to  which  have  been  added  three  table- 
spoonful?  pf  Sherry  or  Madeira, 


366         Dow  to  oooii  vneUiblee 

BAKED  MUSHROOMS  IN  RAMEKINS 

Peel  and  chop  large  mushrooms  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  minced  parsley.  Fill 
buttered  ramekins  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

BAKED  MUSHROOMS  IN  CUPS 

Peel  a  dozen  large  mushrooms,  remove  the 
stalks,  and  chop  fine.  Boil  the  trimmings  for 
fifteen  minutes  in  stock  or  water,  strain,  and 
cook  the  mushrooms  in  the  liquid,  seasoning 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  minced  parsley.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  add  four  eggs  beaten  with 
half  a  cupful  of  cream.  Butter  timbale  moulds, 
fill  with  the  mixture,  and  bake.  Turn  out,  pour 
around  White  Sauce,  and  serve. 

BAKED  BEEFSTEAK  MUSHROOM 

Spread  a  large  slice  of  beefsteak  mushroom 
with  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
bake,  basting  with  a  cupful  of  stock  to  which  a 
tablespoonful  of  Sherry  has  been  added. 

MUSHROOMS  BAKED  WITH  OYSTERS 

Peel  and  trim  large  fresh  mushrooms  and 
saut^  in  butter.  Put  each  one  on  a  round  of 
buttered  toast  inside  up.  Put  an  oyster  in 
each  mushroom,  dot  with  butter,  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Bake  until  the  oysters 
are  plump.  Serve  with  Cream  Sauce,  using 
chicken   stock  for  half  the   liquid.      Or,   with 


ll\inct^*fivc  ma^  to  Ooofi  Audbvoomd    267 

Brown  Sauce  seasoned  with  Port  Wine  and 
mushroom  catsup.  Chop  the  oysters  if  desired 
and  add  grated  nutmeg  to  the  seasoning. 

MUSHROOMS  BAKED  WITH  CHEESE 

Parboil  two  cupfuls  of  cleaned  and  trimmed 
mushrooms  in  salted  water  for  ten  minutes. 
Butter  a  baking-dish,  put  in  the  drained  mush- 
rooms, cover  with  a  cupful  of  Cream  Sauce,  and 
sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  Parmesan  or  Swiss 
cheese.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake 
brown. 

CREAMED  MUSHROOMS 

Fry  fresh  mushrooms  in  butter  or  use  the 
canned  mushrooms,  drained,  and  reheat  in  a 
Cream  Sauce.  Use  the  liquid  drained  from  the 
can  or  stock,  if  desired,  for  part  of  the  liquid 
instead  of  all  cream. 

CREAMED  MUSHROOMS  IN  SHELL 

Prepare  creamed  mushrooms  and  fill  puif 
paste  shells  or  Swedish  timbales  or  ramekins 
and  serve.  If  ramekins  are  used,  cover  with 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

CREAMED  MUSHROOMS  WITH  EGGS 

Cook  a  pint  of  prepared  mushrooms  for  five 
minutes  in  salted  water  with  a  little  milk,  using 
barely  enough  liquid  to  keep  from  burning. 
Thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and 


268  f)ow  to  Oooft  Ii)e0etab[e0 

flour  cooked  together,  take  from  the  fire,  and  add 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  well-beaten.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  onion-juice  and  fill  buttered 
shells  or  ramekins  three-quarters  full.  Break 
a  fresh  egg  into  each  one,  sprinkle  with  seasoned 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  set  into  a  pan  of  hot 
water,  and  bake  until  the  crumbs  are  brown. 

CURRIED  MUSHROOMS 

Fry  a  small  chopped  onion  soft  in  butter  and 
dredge  with  a  teaspoonful  each  of  flour  and 
curry  powder.  Add  a  cupful  of  stock  and  cook 
until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Take  from  the 
fire,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon-juice, 
and  strain  over  fried  mushrooms  arranged  on 
buttered  toast. 

DEVILED  MUSHROOMS— I 

Dip  large  fresh  mushrooms  in  melted  butter, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  cayenne,  and  broil.  Serve 
on  toast.  Mustard  and  lemon-juice  may  be 
added  to  the  seasoning. 

DEVILED  MUSHROOMS— II 

Chop  a  quart  of  peeled  mushrooms  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  and  lemon-juice. 
Add  two  eggs,  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 
two  cupfuls  of  bread-crumbs,  and  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Fill  buttered  sheUs  or 
individual  dishes,  cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with 
tutter,  and  brown  in  the  oven, 


Wnct^^fivc  Mai^  to  Cook  Attsbtoom^     269 

ESCALLOPED  MUSHROOMS— I 

Peel  and  cut  up  a  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms, 
scald,  drain,  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Dry 
thoroughly  and  saut6  in  hot  butter  for  three 
minutes.  Add  a  teaspoonful  each  of  flour  and 
minced  parsley.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  add 
a  cupful  of  hot  stock  and  simmer  for  ten  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  lemon-juice,  take  from  the  fire,  and  add 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with  a  tablespoonf  ul 
of  Sherry.  Fill  buttered  shells  or  ramekins, 
cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  in 
the  oven. 

ESCALLOPED  MUSHROOMS— II 

Make  two  cupfuls  of  Cream  Sauce,  using 
chicken  stock,  if  convenient,  for  part  of  the 
liquid.  Add  the  chopped  stalks  of  a  pint  of 
mushrooms  and  cook  the  sauce  until  it  is  re- 
duced half.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley.  Pour 
the  sauce  into  a  shallow  baking-dish,  and  lay 
upon  it  fresh  mushrooms  inside  up.  Put  a 
small  piece  of  butter  on  each  one,  sprinkle  with 
crumbs,  and  bake  brown. 

ESCALLOPED  MUSHROOMS— III 

Cook  a  x>int  of  mushrooms  in  acidulated  water 
until  tender,  using  barely  enough  to  cover. 
Drain,   mix  with  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  and 


270  f)ow  to  Coofc  lt)edetabte0 

season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Butter  a  baking- 
dish,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  and  repeat  until 
the  dish  is  full,  having  crumbs  on  top.  Pour 
over  the  milk  and  the  liquid  in  which  the  mush- 
rooms were  cooked.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  brown. 

ESCALLOPED  MUSHROOMS— IV 

Peel,  trim,  and  break  up  the  mushrooms  and 
throw  into  boiling  and  acidulated  water.  Let 
stand  for  two  or  three  minutes,  then  rinse  in 
cold  water.  Wipe  dry  and  saut6  in  butter.  To 
two  cupf  uls  of  mushrooms,  add  three  tablespoon- 
f uls  of  flour  and  a  teaspoonf ul  of  minced  parsley. 
When  the  butter  has  absorbed  the  flour,  add 
one  cupful  of  milk  or  cream  or  stock.  Cook 
tmtil  smooth  and  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Take  from  the  fire,  season  with  salt,  paprika, 
and  lemon- juice,  and  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
beaten  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  or 
cream.  Fill  buttered  ramekins,  cover  with 
buttered  crumbs,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

ESCALLOPED  MUSHROOMS— V 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  baldng-dish  with  stale 
bread-crumbs  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  bits  of  butter.  Cover  with  a  layer  of  peeled 
and  stemmed  mushrooms  and  repeat  until  the 
dish  is  full,  having  crumbs  and  butter  on  top. 
Fill  the  dish  with  cream  and  bake,  covered,  for 
an  hour,  then  remove  the  cover  and  brown. 


HMnct^tifivc  Mai3d  to  Cooft  ASudbroom^    2  7 1 

FRIED  MUSHROOMS— I 

Peel  and  trim  very  large  fresh  mushrooms  and 
fry  in  oil  or  butter  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Serve  on  small  thin  slices  of  toast  and  put 
a  teaspoonful  of  Sherry  or  White  Wine  on  each 
mushroom  or  use  minced  parsley  and  lejmon- 
juice  instead  of  wine. 

FRIED  MUSHROOMS— II 

Dip  large  peeled  mushrooms  in  seasoned  flour, 
crumbs,  or  meal,  or  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  deep  fat.  Serve  with  any  preferred  sauce. 
Sprinkle  with  lemon- juice  if  desired.  Bacon  fat 
may  be  used  for  frying  and  the  bacon  served  as 
a  garnish. 

FRIED  MUSHROOMS  ON  TOAST 

Chop  very  fine  peeled  and  stemmed  mush- 
rooms. Saut6  in  butter,  seasoning  with  salt, 
pepper,  mace,  and  cayenne.  Spread  the  mixture 
on  buttered  toast  and  serve. 

MUSHROOM  SAUT^ 

Put  fresh  peeled  mushrooms  into  acidulated 
water.  Let  stand  for  an  hour,  drain,  dry,  and 
saut6  in  butter,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  nutmeg. 

MUSHROOM   SAUTE   k  LA   BORDELAISE 

Marinate  large  peeled  mushrooms  in  seasoned 


a  7^  t)ow  to  Cooh  tfe0etab(e0 

oil  for  two  hours.  Drain  and  fry  brown.  Chop 
fine  a  bean  of  garlic  and  three  sprigs  of  parsley. 
Heat  thoroughly  in  oil,  add  the  mushrooms,  and 
serve. 

BEEFSTEAK  MUSHROOM  SAUXi 

Cut  into  dice,  dip  in  batter,  and  fry  in  deep 
fat  or  saut^  in  butter. 

FRICASSEE  OF  MUSHROOMS— I 

Cook  a  cupful  of  button  mushrooms  in  Cream 
Sauce,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  minced 
parsley,  and  powdered  sugar.  Or,  omit  the 
liquid  and  cook  the  mushrooms  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
and  the  seasoning.  Cook  for  ten  minutes,  then 
add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  half  a 
cupful  of  cream.     Serve  on  toast. 

FRICASSEE  OF  MUSHROOMS— II 

Saut^  large  mushrooms  imtil  brown  and  pour 
into  the  pan  enough  cream  to  cover.  Cook  for 
ten  minutes,  thicken  with  flour  browned  in 
butter,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Sherry,  and 
serve. 

FRICASSEE  OF  MUSHROOMS— III 

Peel  and  scald  a  quart  of  mushrooms,  cover 
with  cold  water,  drain,  and  saut^  in  butter. 
Dredge  with  flour  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
powdered  thyme,  and  msLce,   Pour  in  a  cupful  of 


'tUnete<«yive  Wi«^  to  Coofc  Ausbtoomd    275 

stock,  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Simmer  for  half  an  hour,  then  take  up  the 
mushrooms  and  strain  the  liquid.  Add  to  the 
liquid  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  with  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  Arrange  the  mushrooms  on 
buttered  toast,  pour  over  the  sauce,  and  serve. 

MUSHROOM  CROQUETTES 

Peel  and  trim  half  a  pound  of  mushrooms  and 
chop  the  stalks  and  trimmings  fine.  Simmer  the 
chopped  trimmings  for  twenty  minutes  in  milk 
to  cover,  strain,  and  reserve  the  liquid.  Cook 
together  two  heaping  tablespoonftds  each  of 
butter  and  flour,  add  the  mushroom  liquor  and 
enough  cream  or  milk  to  make  two  cupfuls  in 
all.  Season  with  salt,  paprika,  and  grated 
nutmeg.  Cut  the  caps  into  small  pieces  and  fry 
in  butter.  Add  two  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs, 
a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley,  and  the 
sauce.  Heat  thoroughly,  take  from  the  flre,  and 
add  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs.  Cool,  shape 
into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  deep  fat. 

MUSHROOM  SOUFFL^ 

Chop  fine  a  very  small  onion  and  fry  soft  in 
butter.  Add  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  minced 
mushrooms  and  half  a  cupful  of  minced  cooked 
chicken.  Add  one  cupful  of  White  or  Cream 
Sauce,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  soft  bread- 
crumbs, a  canned  pimento  chopped  fine,  a  pinch 


274  l>ow  to  Cooft  Ve^etabled 

of  salt,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites,  fill  a  buttered  souffle  dish, 
and  bake  until  puifed  and  brown.  Serve  with 
a  Brown  Sauce  to  which  has  been  added  half 
a  cupful  of  fresh  mushrooms  chopped  and  fried, 
and  a  minced  truffle. 

BUTTERED  MUSHROOMS 

Trim  and  clean  a  quart  of  large  fresh  mush- 
rooms and  cook  until  tender  in  butter,  seasoning 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  powdered  mace.  Add 
three  tablespoonf  uls  of  butter  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  cracker-crumbs.  Heat  thoroughly  and 
serve. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS— I 

Peel  and  trim  half  a  pound  of  fresh  mush- 
rooms. Fry  in  butter,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  add  half  a  cupful 
of  hot  water  or  stock.  Cook  slowly  for  five 
minutes.  Three-fourths  cupful  or  more  of 
cream  may  be  used  for  liquid  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg  may  be  added  to  the  seasoning.  If 
hot  water  is  used,  season  with  minced  parsley 
and  onion- juice. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS— II 

Trim  and  clean  a  cupful  of  button  mushrooms 
and  saut^  in  butter.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
mace,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon- juice.  Serve 
on  toast.     Or,  use  half  a  cupful  of  cream  or 


tMnct^rfifivc  Wn^  to  Cooft  ASudbtoontd    275 

stock  instead  of  the  lemon-juice  and  omit  the 
mace  if  desired. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS^III 

Peel  and  trim  a  pint  of  fresh  mushrooms, 
fry  in  butter,  dredge  with  flour,  and  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  more  if  necessary. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  take  from  the  fire, 
and  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  smooth  with 
a  tablespoonf ul  of  Sherry. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS— IV 

Peel  and  stem  the  mushrooms  and  throw  into 
acidulated  water.  Drain  and  cook  in  as  little 
water  as  possible,  seasoning  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Simmer  for  five  minutes  and  thicken 
with  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS— V 

Peel  and  trim  the  mushrooms  and  cook  for 
fifteen  minutes  in  water  to  cover.  Season  with 
salt  and  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter rolled  in  flour.  Cook  for  four  minutes  and 
add  an  egg  beaten  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream.     Heat  thoroughly  but  do  not  boil,  and 


serve. 


STEWED  MUSHROOMS— VI 


Peel  a  pint  of  fresh  mushrooms  and  scrape 
the  stalks.     Throw  into  cold  water  and  drain, 


2  76  f)ow  to  Coolt  lDe0etable0 

but  do  not  wipe.  Cook  in  their  own  liquor 
until  the  juice  flows  freely,  then  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  rubbed  smooth  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour  or  a  little  less  corn-starch.  If 
flour  is  used,  cook  for  about  fifteen  minutes. 
If  corn-starch  is  used,  put  it  in  about  three 
minutes  before  the  mushrooms  are  served. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS— VII 

Cook  fresh  mushrooms  for  twenty  minutes  in 
equal  parts  of  milk  and  water,  using  as  little 
liquid  as  possible.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  flour 
browned  in  butter  and  one  cupful  of  stock. 
Cook  until  the  sauce  is  smooth  and  thick, 
stirring  constantly,  then  add  a  few  drops  of 
lemon-juice.  Cream  or  milk  may  be  used 
instead  of  stock  with  grated  nutmeg  and  lemon- 
peel  added  to  the  seasoning.  Mushroom  catsup 
may  be  used  also  in  the  seasoning. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS— VIII 

Cook  fresh  mushrooms  for  twenty  minutes  in 
equal  parts  of  milk  and  water,  seasoning  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Thicken  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour  and  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  A  little 
veal  or  chicken  stock  may  be  added  before 
thickening. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS— IX 

Make  a  pint  of  Drawn-Butter  Sauce  and  add 
the   yolks   of   two  eggs  beaten  with  a  cupful 


Wnct^^givc  Wti'Sfi  to  Cook  Auebrooma    377 

of  cream  and  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter 
and  minced  parsley.  Add  a  pint  of  peeled  and 
washed  mushrooms,  cook  for  five  minutes,  and 
serve  very  hot. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS— X 

Fry  a  chopped  onion  brown  in  butter  with 
half  a  pound  of  chopped  mushrooms,  add 
enough  Brown  Sauce  to  moisten,  and  heat 
thoroughly,  seasoning  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
mustard  and  two  soaked  anchovies  pounded 
smooth  in  a  mortar. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS— XI 

Cook  peeled  and  trimmed  mushrooms  for 
four  or  five  minutes  in  boiling  cream  well- 
seasoned.  Serve  on  toast,  moistening  the 
toast  with  the  cream. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS— XII 

Put  into  a  saucepan  a  quart  of  cleaned  mush- 
rooms, two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  half  a  cupful 
of  water  or  stock,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
Cover  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring  fre- 
quently. A  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice  may 
be  added  just  before  serving. 

STEWED  CANNED  MUSHROOMS 

Drain  a  can  of  mushrooms,  reheat  in  butter, 
dredge  with  flour,  and  add  enough  boiling  milk 


2  73  l)ow  to  dooft  X^CQCtablce 

or  cream  to  make  a  smooth  sauce.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  take  from  the  fire,  and 
add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  Sherry.  Do  not  allow  the  mushrooms 
to  boil.  Serve  on  toast.  Or,  reheat  the  drained 
mushrooms  in  Cream  Sauce,  then  add  the  egg 
and  Sherry. 

MUSHROOMS  STEWED  IN  WINE— I 

Saut6  in  butter  a  pound  of  peeled  and  trimmed 
mushrooms.  Drain  off  the  butter,  add  a  wine- 
glassful  of  Sherry  and  a  cupful  of  stock.  Bring 
to  the  boil,  thicken  with  flour  browned  in  butter, 
and  serve. 

MUSHROOMS  STEWED  IN  WINE— II 

Cook  a  pint  of  small  fresh  mushrooms  for 
five  minutes  in  salted  water  to  cover.  Add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  Claret, 
mace  and  cayenne  to  season,  and  the  yolks  of 
six  hard-boiled  eggs.  Heat  thoroughly  and 
serve  with  a  garnish  of  broiled  or  fried  mush- 
rooms. 

MUSHROOMS    WITH  WHITE    WINE  AND 

CREAM 

Peel  and  cut  up  half  a  pound  of  mushrooms. 
Fry  for  five  minutes  in  butter  and  dredge  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Add  half  a  cupful 
each  of  white  wine  and  cream,  stir  until  smooth, 
cover,  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes. 


WnetiS'f  fi^e  TIQlase  to  Cook  Auebroomd    2  79 

MUSHROOMS  WITH  FINE  HERBS 

Chop  fine  parsley,  thjnne,  and  summer  savory 
and  wet  with  onion-juice.  Dip  large  fresh 
mushrooms  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  the 
herbs,  fry  in  butter,  and  serve  on  toast, 

MUSHROOMS  AND  MACARONI 

Saut€  a  dozen  jp^eled  mushrooms  in  butter, 
seasoning  with  lemon- juice.  Add  one  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  of  Cream  Sauce  and  simmer  for 
ten  minutes,  then  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
cooked  and  broken  macaroni.  Heat  thoroughly, 
season  with  grated  cheese,  and  serve. 

MUSHROOMS  AND  OYSTERS 

Saut^  large  fresh  mushrooms  in  butter,  drain, 
and  put  into  a  shallow  baking-pan  inside  up. 
Lay  a  large  oyster  on  each  one  and  sea^n  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Dip  the  oysters  in 
melted  butter  and  cracker-crumbs  if  desired. 
Bake  until  the  oysters  are  plump  and  serve 
with  Brown,  Cream,  or  B^h^mel  Sauce. 

MUSHROOMS  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Peel  two  pounds  of  fresh  mushrooms  and 
throw  into  acidulated  water.  Cut  each  one 
into  two  or  three  pieces  and  chop  the  stalks. 
Fry  the  mushrooms  in  olive-oil  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  chopped  onion,  two  bruised  cloves 
of   garlic,  and  the  chopped   stalkd.     Drain  off 


38o  l)ow  to  Cook  VcgctablcB 

most  of  the  oil,  add  two  cupfuls  of  Tomato 
Sauce  and  a  teaspoonful  of  beef  extract  dissolved. 
Season  with  salt,  white  pepper,  and  cayenne,  and 
heat  thoroughly.  Season  with  lemon-juice  and 
minced  parsley  and  serve. 

MUSHROOMS  WITH  EGGS 

Peel  and  slice  a  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms 
and  cook  until  tender  in  white  stock  to  cover, 
adding  a  slice  of  onion,  a  little  butter,  a  pinch 
of  sweet  herbs,  and  seasoning.  Press  through  a 
sieve  on  a  serving-dish  and  lay  upon  it  very 
carefully  a  few  poached  eggs.  Season  to  taste 
and  serve. 

MUSHROOMS  WITH  CREAM 

Fry  a  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms  in  butter, 
seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt.  Sprinkle  with 
minced  parsley,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
white  stock  and  half  a  cupful  of  cream.  Cook 
five  minutes  longer,  pour  over  toast,  and  serve. 

MUSHRO9MS  IN  SHELLS 

Cut  the  upper  crust  from  four  French  rolls, 
scoop  out  the  inside,  and  toast  or  fry  the  shells 
thus  made.  Cook  two  pounds  of  peeled  and 
irinmied  mushrooms  in  butter,  seasoning  with 
salt  and  lemon- juice.  Moisten  with  stock  or 
water,  add  three  cupfuls  or  more  of  Velout^ 
Sauce,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  pepper 
and  grated  nutmeg  to  season.     Take  from  the 


Wnetst^fivc  Winisfi  to  Cooft  Auabtoome    aSi 

fire,  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten, 
fill  the  shells,  heat  for  a  moment,  and  serve. 

MUSHROOMS  UNDER  GLASS— I 

Cut  circles  of  bread  to  fit  the  glass  covers, 
toast,  and  put  a  large  fresh  mushroom  on  each 
slice  inside  up,  having  first  dipped  each  one 
in  melted  butter  seasoned  with  minced  pars- 
ley and  lemon-juice.  Moisten  with  cream, 
cover,  and  bake  for  twenty-five  minutes.  The 
parsley,  lemon-juice,  and  cream  may  be  omitted. 

MUSHROOMS  UNDER  GLASS— II 

Peel  and  remove  the  stems  from  a  pound  of 
large  fresh  mushrooms.  Fry  in  butter  for  one 
minute,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
nutmeg.  Add  a  cupful  of  cream,  cover,  and 
simmer  for  ten  minutes.  Have  ready  six  round 
slices  of  bread  toasted  on  the  under  side  only. 
Cover  with  the  mushrooms,  pour  over  the  pan- 
gravy,  cover  with  the  bells  or  with  jelly-tumblers, 
and  bake  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  The 
nutmeg  may  be  omitted.  In  cooking  under 
glass,  heat  gradually, 

MUSHROOMS  UNDER  GLASS— III 

Toast  thin  circles  of  bread  on  the  under  side 
and  lay  large  fresh  mushrooms  on  the  other 
side.  Cover  with  glass  bells  and  bake  for  twenty 
minutes. 


fl82  tyow  to  aooft  v^egetablee 

MUSHROOMS  UNDER  GLASS— IV 

Toast  thin  circles  of  bread  on  the  under  side. 
Saut^  fresh  mushrooms  in  butter,  seasoning 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  moistening  with 
cream.  Pour  the  cream  and  mushroom  mixture 
over  the  pieces  of  toast,  cover  with  the  bells, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  twenty  cainutes. 
Serve  with  the  bells  on. 

STUFFED  MUSHROOMS— I 

Chop  mushrooms  fine,  mix  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  crtimbs,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  moisten  with  stock  or  cream.  Fill  the 
caps  of  large  fresh  mushrooms  with  the  force- 
meat and  put  a  dot  of  butter  on  each  one. 
Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  cover,  and 
bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Or,  put  the  filled 
mushrooms  in  a  baking-dish,  fill  the  spaces 
between  with  the  forcemeat,  sprinkle  with 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  pour  in  enough 
cream  to  moisten.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  cover,  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes,  then 
uncover  and  brown.  Serve  in  the  baking-dish 
or  on  toast  with  Bechamel  Sauce. 

STUFFED  MUSHROOMS— II 

Chop  the  stalks  fine  and  fry  in  butter.  Add 
a  sufficient  quantity  of  bread-crumbs  soaked 
and  squeezed  dry,  one  or  two  beaten  eggs,  and 
enough  cream  to  moisten.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  fill  the  mushroom  caps,  and  bake. 


Wnct^fivc  mnw  to  aoofi  Audbroome    283 

basting  with   stock  or  hot  water  and  melted 
butter. 

STUFFED  MUSHROOMS  A  LA 
NEAPOLITAN 

Chop  fine  the  stalks  and  trimmings  of  sixteen 
large  fresh  mushrooms.  Fry  the  trimmings  in 
oil  with  onion  and  garlic  to  season  and  add 
half  a  cupful  of  Tomato  Sauce  with  salt  and 
red  pepper  to  season.  Add  equal  parts  of  fresh 
bread-crumbs  and  grated  Parmesan  cheese  tmtil 
a  smooth  thick  paste  is  formed.  Season  with 
minced  parsley,  fill  the  mushroom  caps,  and 
arrange  on  a  baking-dish.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs 
and  grated  cheese,  moisten  with  olive-oil,  and 
bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  lemon- 
juice  and  serve. 

MUSHROOM  PARCI 

Peel  a  pound  of  large  fresh  mushrooms,  and 
reserve  the  six  largest.  Chop  the  remainder 
with  the  stems  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
soft  bread-crumbs,  two  minced  truffles,  and 
salt,  cayenne,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  season. 
Fry  the  large  mushrooms  in  butter  and  arrange 
on  thin  slices  of  bread  toasted  on  the  under 
side.  Fill  with  the  stufling,  brush  with  melted 
butter,  and  bake  brown.  Pour  a  cupful  of  cream 
into  the  frying-pan,  bring  to  the  boil,  pour  over 
the  mushrooms,  and  serve. 


a  84  1>0W  to  COOfl  V^CQCtablCB 

PUR^E  OF  MUSHROOM&--I 

Peel  and  chop  the  desired  quantity  of 
mushrooms  and  simmer  for  ten  minutes  in 
milk  to  cover.  Add  enough  bread-crumbs 
to  make  a  smooth  thick  paste  and  cook  until 
the  moisture  is  evaporated.  Rub  through  a 
sieve,  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper, 
and  serve. 

PUREE  OF  MUSHROOMS— II 

Cook  a  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms  in  stock 
to  cover  until  tender  and  drain.  Add  to  the 
sauce  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion  and 
salt,  pepper,  and  minced  parsley  to  season. 
Cook  until  thick,  add  the  mushrooms,  and  press 
through  a  sieve.  Add  a  wineglassful  of  Burgundy 
and  serve  on  toast  with  a  garnish  of  hard-boiled 
eggs  sliced,  or  add  an  equal  amount  of  bread- 
crumbs and  bake. 

RAGOUT  OF  MUSHROOMS— I 

Put  a  cupful  of  stock  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  cupful  of  butter  and  a  tablespoonful  of  minced 
parsley.  When  hot,  put  in  a  quart  of  peeled 
and  stemmed  mushrooms  and  simmer  very 
slowly  until  the  mushrooms  are  done.  Thicken 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour,  add  a 
cupful  of  boiling  water,  a  wineglassful  of  Madeira, 
and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  serve. 


IMnct^^fl^c  Muw  to  Cooh  Audbtoomd    285 

RAGOUT  OF  MUSHROOMS— II 

Bring  to  the  boil  three  cupfuls  of  stock  to 
which  has  been  added  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  vinegar, 
a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley,  two  sliced 
onions,  and  salt,  paprika,  and  grated  nutmeg 
to  season.  Add  two  cupfuls  of  cleaned  mush- 
rooms, simmer  until  tender,  take  from  the  fire, 
and  thicken  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten 
with  half  a  cupful  of  the  cooking  liquid. 

MUSHROOM  TOAST 

Cook  a  quart  of  peeled  and  trimmed  mush- 
rooms until  tender  in  butter,  seasoning  with  red 
and  white  pepper  and  powdered  mace.  When 
the  butter  begins  to  brown,  add  a  cupful  of 
cream,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  stew  until  the  mushrooms  are 
tender.  Beef  gravy  may  be  substituted  for  the 
cream  and  the  lemon-peel  omitted.  Serve  on 
toast  with  lemon- juice  squeezed  over. 

MUSHROOM  PIE 

Line  a  shallow  baking-dish  with  thin  slices  of 
bacon.  Put  in  a  layer  of  peeled  and  trimmed 
mushrooms.  Cover  with  mashed  potatoes,  dot 
with  butter,  and  bake  covered  for  half  an  hour. 
Remove  the  cover  and  brown. 

SMOTHERED  MUSHROOMS— I 
Peel  and  trim  enough  mushrooms  to  make  a 


d86  f)ow  to  Coofi  X)cgctnbicB 

pint.  Put  into  a  covered  saucepan  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Cover  and 
cook  in  their  own  liquor  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  imme- 
diately. 

SMOTHERED  MUSHROOMS— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Smothered  Mushrooms  I;  at  the  end  of  fifteen 
minutes  add  two  tablespoonfuls  or  more  of 
cream.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  beaten  with  a  tablespoonf ul  of  Sherry. 

MUSHROOM  PATTIES 

Saut^  chopped  mushrooms  in  butter  and  reheat 
in  Cream  or  Drawn-Butter  Sauce.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  lemon-juice.  Fill  patty-shells, 
reheat,  and  serve. 

CANNED  MUSHROOMS  IN  RAMEKINS 

« 

Reheat  chopped  mushrooms  in  Cream  Sauce, 
adding  onion-juice  and  minced  parsley  to  the 
seasoning.  Cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter, 
and  bake  brown,  setting  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water  to  keep  from  burning. 

MUSHROOMS  A  LA  BORDELAISE— I 

Peel,  wash,  and  cut  up  one  poimd  of  large 
fresh  mushrooms.  Soak  for  three  hours  in  a 
marinade  of  seasoned  oil.  Drain  and  fry  for 
five  or  six  minutes.     Mix  three  tablespoonfuls  of 


Wnct^*fivc  WVSB  to  Coofi  Ati0btooin6    287 

olive-oil  with  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley, 
a  pounded  clove  of  garlic,  and  a  pinch  of  minced 
chives.  Heat  thoroughly,  pour  over  the  mush- 
rooms, and  serve. 

MUSHROOMS  A  LA  BORDELAISE— II 

Chop  fine  two  young  onions,  three  or  four 
sprigs  of  parsley,  and  two  beans  of  garlic.  Mix 
with  melted  butter  or  oil  and  pour  over  broiled 
fresh  mushrooms.  Or,  chop  the  trimmings  of 
the  mushrooms  and  boil  for  ten  minutes  in  stock, 
seasoning  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Thicken  the 
sauce  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  pour  over  the 
mushrooms,  and  serve. 

MUSHROOMS  X  LA  BORDELAISE— III 

Rub  a  baking-dish  with  oil  or  butter  and 
sprinkle  it  with  bread-crumbs  and  minced 
parsley.  Put  in  a  layer  of  peeled  and  cleaned 
mushrooms,  dot  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  with 
minced  parsley  and  crumbs.  Add  a  little 
chopped  onion  or  garlic  if  desired.  Repeat 
until  the  dish  is  full,  having  cnunbs  on  top. 
Bake  for  half  an  hour  and  serve  in  the  same 
dish. 

MUSHROOMS  A  LA  BORDELAISB— IV 

Peel  and  trim  two  pounds  of  fresh  mushrooms 
and  saut^  in  butter  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  chopped  onion,  a  bruised  clove  of  garlic,  and 
salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  season.     Mix 


2  SB  f)ow  to  (tooh  Htcgctnblc^ 

with  Espagnole  Sauce,  season  with  minced  parsley 
and  lemon-juice,  and  serve. 

MUSHROOMS  A  LA  CREOLE 

Put  a  cupful  of  olive-oil  into  a  flat  baking-dish, 
sprinkle  with  crtunbs  and  minced  parsley,  and 
lay  over  it  some  large  fresh  mushrooms  which 
have  been  peeled  and  stemmed.  Baste  with  the 
oil,  sprinkle  with  bread-crumbs  and  seasoning, 
and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

MUSHROOMS  A  LA  DUMAS 

Chop  fine  a  slice  of  onion  and  a  clove  of  garlic 
and  fry  in  butter  or  oil.  Strain,  and  fry  fresh 
mushrooms  in  the  same  fat  with  salt,  paprika,  and 
minced  parsley  to  season.  Add  one  cupful  or 
more  of  Cream  Sauce  and  mix  thoroughly.  Fill 
buttered  shells  or  ramekins,  cover  with  crumbs, 
and  bake  until  brown. 

MUSHROOMS  A  LA  FRANQAISE 

Peel  and  slice  a  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms, 
add  half  a  cupful  of  water,  two  tablespoonf uls  of 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  the  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Cook  for  ten  minutes,  strain  the 
liquid,  and  add  to  it  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten 
with  half  a  cupful  of  white  stock.  Cook  until 
smooth  and  thick,  season  with  grated  nutmeg, 
mix  with  the  mushrooms,  and  serve  on 
toast. 


Wnct2*fivc  tUafid  to  Cook  UsusbxootM    289 

MUSHROOMS  AU  GRATIN 

Fill  a  deep  buttered  baking-dish  with  peeled 
mushiooms  and  pour  over  a  Drawn-Butter  Sauce 
to  which  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  have  been  added. 
Sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
brown. 

MUSHROOMS  A  LITALIENNE 

Saut^  large  fresh  mushrooms  in  seasoned  oil 
and  arrange  on  toast.  Fry  the  chopped  stalks 
in  the  same  fat,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Take  from  the  fire,  add  a  little  minced  parsley 
and  lemon-Juice,  pour  over  the  mushrooms,  and 
serve. 

MUSHROOMS  A  LA  POULETTE— I 

Prepare  Creamed  Mushrooms  according  to 
directions  previously  given.  Take  from  the  fire 
and  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  half 
a  cupftd  of  cream. 

MUSHROOMS  A  LA  POULETTE— II 

Peel  and  cut  up  half  a  pound  of  mushrooms, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  let  them  stand  for  a 
minute  or  two.  Drain,  rinse  in  cold  water,  and 
dry  in  a  cloth.  Cook  for  two  or  three  minutes  in 
melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  flour,  and  add  salt, 
pepper,  and  minced  parsley  to  season.  Add 
enough  stock  to  cover  and  cook  for  fifteen  min- 
utes. Take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  two 

X9 


dQd  f)ow  to  Cooft  Vegetables 

eggs  beaten  with  a  teaspoonful  of   vinegar  or 
lemon- jtiice.     Serve  immediately. 

MUSHROOMS  A  LA  PROVENCE 

Peel,  slice,  and  fry  a  poimd  of  fresh  mushrooms 
in  butter  with  a  slice  of  onion  and  a  minced 
bean  of  garlic.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
add  a  cupful  of  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes 
which  have  been  cooked  with  a  bay-leaf,  a  little 
stock,  and  some  minced  parsley.  Add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  capers  chopped  fine  and  serve  at 
once. 

MUSHROOMS  A  LA  PROVENQALE— I 

Peel,  wash,  and  drain  half  a  pound  of  mush- 
rooms. Marinate  for  two  hours  in  oil  to  cover, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  minced  garlic,  and 
parsley.  Drain  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes, 
adding  a  little  butter  or  a  teaspoonful  of  the 
marinade  as  needed.  Arrange  on  buttered  toast, 
sprinkle  with  lemon-juice,  and  serve. 

MUSHROOMS  A  LA  PROVENgALE— II 

Peel  and  trim  two  pounds  of  large  fresh  mush- 
rooms and  throw  into  acidulated  water.  Drain, 
cut  up,  and  fry  in  oil  with  the  chopped  stalks. 
Add  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  minced  onion  and  two 
bruised  beans  of  garlic.  Drain  off  most  of  the 
fat  and  add  a  cupful  of  Tomato  Sauce  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  beef  extract.     Season  with  salt 


iMnctQ^tivc  tK&as0  to  (took  Audbrodttt^    agt 

and  red  pepper,  heat  thoroughly,  season  with 
minced  parsley  and  lemon-juice,  and  serve. 

MUSHROOMS  A  LA  SABINE 

Saut^  in  butter  half  a  pound  of  peeled  and 
trimmed  mushrooms.  Add  a  cupful  or  more 
of  Brown  Sauce,  cook  for  five  minutes,  then  add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese  and  serve 
on  toast  as  soon  as  the  cheese  is  melted. 


NINETEEN    WAYS    TO    COOK 
NOODLES 

NOODLES— I 

Beat  an  egg  slightly,  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
add  enough  flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough. 
Roll  out  as  thin  as  possible  and  dry  on  a  cloth. 
Roll  up  tightly  and  slice  downward  into  very 
fine  strips.  Toss  lightly  with  the  fingers  to 
separate,  and  spread  out  on  the  board  to 
dry.     Keep  in  covered  jars  for  future  use. 

NOODLES— II 

Beat  two  eggs — ^the  whites  only  if  the  noodles 
are  preferred  white.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  aad 
enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a  stifE  paste.  Divide 
into  six  parts,  and  roll  out  very  thin — ^it  cannot 
be  too  thin.  Dredge  with  flour,  roll  up,  and  cut 
each  into  strips  as  thin  as  possible.  Use  as 
required  or  put  away  in  covered  glass  jars.  The 
paste  should  be  dried  thoroughly  before  cutting. 

BOILED  NOODLES 

Boil  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  noodles  in 
milk  to  cover  and  when  tender  add  two  table- 
spa 


Wneteen  TRnai^  to  dooft  nooMes     293 

spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  three  eggs  well  beaten. 
Heat  thoroughly  and  serve. 

BUTTERED  NOODLES 

Boil  noodles  in  salted  water  to  cover  until  ten- 
der. Drain  and  put  into  a  baking-dish  with 
a  little  melted  butter.  Sprinkle  thickly  with 
crumbs  fried  in  butter  and  serve. 

BAKED  NOODLES 

Reheat  boiled  and  drained  noodles  in  milk 
to  cover.  Season  with  melted  butter,  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Heat 
thoroughly,  put  into  a  baking-dish,  sprinkle 
with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  brown  in  the 
oven.  Serve  in  the  same  dish.  Or,  arrange 
boiled  and  drained  noodles  in  layers  in  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  seasoning  each  layer  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  and  sprinkling  thickly 
with  grated  cheese.  Spread  fried  crumbs  over 
the  top,  heat  thoroughly,  and  serve. 

BAKED  CHEESE  NOODLES 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Noodles  with  Parmesan  Cheese  and  put  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish  with  alternate  layers  of 
Cream  Sauce.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

ESCALLOPED  NOODLES 

Cook   noodles   in   boiling   salted   water   until 


394  l)ow  to  Cooft  V>eQeUiblcB 

soft,  drain,  rinse  in  cold  water,  and  reheat  in 
White  or  Cream  Sauce.  Arrange  in  a  baking- 
dish  in  layers,  alternating  with  grated  cheese. 
Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  until  the 
crumbs  are  brown.  Tomato  Sauce  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  cheese. 

GERMAN  NOODLES 

Melt  six  ounces  of  butter  and  mix  with  it  slowly 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  the  white  of  one  beaten 
together.  When  frothy,  add  salt  and  pepper 
to  season  and  very  slowly  five  ounces  of  sifted 
flour,  then  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  boiling  water  and  cook 
for  ten  minutes.  Drain,  arrange  on  a  baking- 
dish,  dust  with  grated  cheese,  and  bake  brown. 
Serve  with  Brown  Sauce. 

NOODLES  AND  MUSHROOMS 

Boil  large  noodles  in  salted  water  until  tender, 
drain,  moisten  with  melted  butter,  and  put  into 
a  baking-pan.  Brown  fine  noodles  in  fat,  sprin- 
kle over  the  top,  moisten  with  soup  stock,  and 
cook  until  done  in  the  oven.  Serve  in  the  same 
dish  and  in  a  separate  dish  cooked  mushrooms 
reheated  in  a  Brown  Sauce. 

NOODLES  WITH  COTTAGE  CHEESE 

Cook  two  ounces  of  noodles  imtil  tender  in  two 
cupfuls  of  stock.  Drain,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  put  op  a  iXQt  platter,     Pre?iJ^  pvej" 


fUneteen  TiQlas0  to  Cook  flooMee     395 

it  one  cupful  of  fresh  cottage  cheese  and  pour 
over  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  cooked  brown. 
The  plain  boiled  noodles  may  be  served  with 
Cream  or  Tomato  Sauce. 

NOODLES  WITH  PARMESAN  CHEESE 

Melt  two  ounces  of  butter,  add  one  and  one- 
half  ounces  of  flour,  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and 
cayenne,  and  a  cupful  of  milk.  Cook  to  a  firm 
paste  and  add  three  eggs  well  beaten  and  four 
ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  into  boiling  water  and  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes.     Drain  and  serve  with  Brown  Sauce. 

SPANISH  NOODLES 

Prepare  noodle  paste  according  to  directions 
previously  given  and  cut  into  squares.  Put  into 
the  centre  of  each  a  bit  of  cooked  spinach  and 
an  equal  quantity  of  cottage  cheese.  Brush  the 
edges  with  white  of  egg  unbeaten  and  fold  over. 
Press  firmly  together,  cover  with  boiling 
stock,  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Serve 
with  Tomato  Sauce,  seasoned  with  onion  and 
garlic. 

SWISS  NOODLES 

Mix  together  one  cupful  of  flour  and  three 
well-beaten  eggs.  Put  into  a  pastry  bag  with  a 
small  plain  tube  and  press  out  in  strips  into 
boiling  salted  water.  Boil  for  half  an  hour,  drain, 
ge^spn  with  sajt  and  pepper,  pour  over  melted 


296  Dow  to  Cook  X)cgctnblCB 

butter,  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  or  with 
cottage  cheese.     Serve  immediately. 

NOODLES  X  LA  BADOISB— I 

Put  a  pound  of  cooked  and  drained  noodles 
into  a  saucepan  with  one-fourth  pound  each  of 
butter  and  grated  cheese,  breaking  the  butter 
into  bits.  Season  with  pepper  and  grated 
nutmeg  and  mix  with  a  cupful  of  AUemande 
Sauce.  Put  into  a  deep  dish,  cover  with  crumbs 
browned  in  butter,  heat  for  a  moment,  and 
serve. 

NOODLES  A  LA  BADOISE— II 

Cream  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter  and 
add  by  degrees  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  three 
whole  eggs.  Stir  until  smooth  and  frothy, 
seasoning  with  salt  and  nutmeg.  Add  ten 
ounces  of  sifted  flour,  mix  thoroughly,  and  fold 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs.  Drop 
by  spoonfuls  into  boiling  salted  water,  simmer 
until  firm,  and  drain.  Put  into  a  baking-dish, 
pour  over  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  and  bake,  basting  with  melted 
butter. 

NOODLES  AU  GRATIN 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  noodles  for  ten  minutes 
in  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  and  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  two  cupfuls  of  milk  or  stock,  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,   and  salt,  pepper,  and 


fUneteen  Wx2»  to  dooft  VtooOloe     297 

grated  nutmeg  to  season.  Simmer  slowly  until 
the  liquid  has  all  been  absorbed,  then  add  half 
a  cupful  of  cream  or  stock,  a  tablespoonf\il  of 
butter,  and  a  quarter  of  a  x)ound  of  grated  Parme- 
san cheese.  Cook  slowly  until  the  cheese  is 
melted  and  put  into  a  buttered  serving-dish. 
Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  grated  cheese  and 
the  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg  pressed  through 
a  sieve.     Brown  in  the  oven  and  serve. 

NOODLES  A  LA  FRANgAISE 

Boil  noodles  until  tender  in  salted  water  to 
cover,  drain,  and  reheat  in  White  Sauce,  season- 
ing with  salt,  pepper,  melted  butter,  and  grated 
Parmesan  cheese. 

NOODLES  A  LA  FRASCATI 

Prepare  the  noodles  according  to  directions 
given  for  Noodles  k  la  Badoise  I.  Cut  into  fine 
shreds  half  a  cupful  each  of  cooked  beef  tongue, 
chicken,  and  fresh  mushrooms.  Reheat  in  a  little 
beef  gravy  or  strong  stock.  Arrange  the  noodles 
in  layers  in  a  deep  baking-dish,  seasoning  with 
melted  butter  and  grated  cheese  and  alternating 
with  the  cooked  mixture.  Finish  with  cheese  and 
melted  butter,  bake  light  brown  and  serve  very  hot. 

NOODLES  A  LA  PARMESAN 

Season  boiled  and  drained  noodles  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  equal  parts 
of  grated  Parmesan  and  Swiss  cheese,  and  serve. 


TWENTY  WAYS  TO  COOK  OKRA 

BOILED  OKRA— I 

Boil  the  okra  in  salted  water  until  tender, 
drain,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and 
serve  very  hot.    A  little  cream  may  be  added. 

BOILED  OKRA— II 

Boil  yotmg  okra  until  tender  in  salted  water, 
adding  a  small  piece  of  butter  or  salt  pork  if 
desired.  Drain  and  serve  with  melted  butter 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar. 

ESCALLOPED  OKRA 

Slice  okra  pods  in  thick  slices.  Put  a  ]a3rer  in 
the  bottom  of  a  baking-dish,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  sprinkle  with  cracker-crumbs,  and  dot 
with  butter.  Repeat  tmtil  the  dish  is  full,  having 
crtmibs  and  butter  on  top.  Pour  over  a  capful 
of  cream  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

ESCALLOPED  OKRA  AND  TOMATOES 

Cook  together  in  water  to  cover  one  pint  of 
peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes  and  a  quart  of 
sjiced   okra.     When   they   have   been   cooking 

?93 


XSvocnti  WxiVB  to  Coolt  9ltta        399 

for  fifteen  minutes,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter  and  turn  into  a  buttered  baking-dish. 
Cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
for  half  an  hour. 

PRIED  OKRA— -I 

Cut  crosswise  in  thin  slices  and  saut6  in  lard 
or  butter,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt.  When 
it  is  brown,  add  a  little  water,  cover,  and  simmer 
slowly  until  done. 

FRIED  OKRA— II 

Slice  tender  parts  of  okra  and  saut^  in  hot 
pork  fat.  Shced  onions  may  be  added.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  very  hot. 

OKRA  FRIED  IN  BATTER 

Boil  the  okra  whole  for  twenty  minutes  in 
salted  water.  Drain,  slice,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dip  in  fritter  batter,  and  fry  brown  in 
fat  to  cover. 

OKRA  saut6  a  la  cr:6ole 

Chop  fine  an  onion  and  a  green  pepper  and 
fry  soft  in  butter.  Add  two  tomatoes  peeled 
and  cut  up,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Spanish 
Sauce  or  stock,  and  pepper  and  chopped  garlic 
to  season.  Put  in  the  required  quantity  of 
sliced  okras,  cover,  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes 
Sprinkle  with  minced  parsley  ^cl  serve, 


300  Dow  to  Coofi  Vc^ctablCB 

OKRA  AND  TOMATOES 

Put  together  in  a  saucepan  a  quart  of  washed 
okra  cut  in  slices,  two  cupfuls  of  peeled  and 
sliced  tomatoes,  and  two  shredded  green  peppers. 
Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  cover,  and  simmer 
for  half  an  hour,  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  serve. 

STEWED  OKRA  AND  TOMATOES— I 

Cook  separately  equal  quantities  of  peeled 
and  sliced  okra  and  tomatoes.  Mix,  seasoning 
with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  grated  onion,  and 
serve  very  hot.  Or,  use  half  as  much  tomato  as 
okra,  and  omit  the  onion  from  the  seasoning. 

STEWED  OKRA  AND  TOMATOES— II 

Peel  and  slice  enough  tomatoes  to  make  a 
pint.  Slice  crosswise  enough  okras  to  make  a 
similar  quantity.  Add  two  or  three  sweet  green 
peppers  shredded  and  seeded,  and  cook  from 
an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half,  adding  a  very 
little  water  from  time  to  time  if  required. 
Season  with  butter  and  salt.  Half  a  cupful 
of  well-washed  rice  and  a  slice  of  cooked  ham 
chopped  fine  may  be  added. 

OKRA  AND  CORN 

Fry  a  slice  of  salt  pork  and  take  up.  Fry  a 
pint  of  sliced  okra  in  the  same  fat  for  ten  minutes, 
then  add  two  cupfuls  of  com  pulp,  and  finish 


ZTwents  Ma^  to  Cooft  Ofita        301 

frying.  Pour  over  half  a  cupful  of  milk  in  which 
a  teaspoonful  of  flour  has  been  rubbed  smooth 
and  cook  until  smooth  and  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly. A  cupful  of  canned  tomatoes  may  be 
added  instead  of  the  milk. 

STEWED  OKRA  AND  CORN 

Cook  together  one  quart  of  okras  sliced  thin 
and  one  pint  of  canned  tomatoes  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Add  the  com  pulp  pressed  from  a 
dozen  ears  and  cook  half  an  hour  longer.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  serve. 

OKRA  SUCCOTASH 

Cook  together  for  fifteen  minutes  a  quart  of 
sliced  okra  and  a  cupful  of  canned  tomatoes. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  a  cupful  of 
young  lima  beans,  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  then 
add  a  cupful  of  grated  com  and  cook  twenty 
minutes  longer.  Add  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  but- 
ter and  serve. 

STEWED  OKRA  AND  RICE 

Slice  a  quart  of  okra  and  cut  one-fourth 
or  half  a  pound  of  lean  ham  into  small  pieces. 
Peel  and  cut  up  two  large  tomatoes  and  simmer 
for  half  an  hour  with  a  pint  of  stock,  adding 
a  slice  of  onion  or  one  large  onion  and  a  pod 
of  red  pepper.  Put  in  a  cupful  of  well-washed 
rice  and  finish  cooking,  adding  a  tablespoonful 
of    gumbo    powder   just    before    serving.     The 


36d  1)ow  to  (took  t^edctabte^ 

ham  may  be  omitted  and  a  pint  of  tomatoes 
used. 

STEWED  OKRA  A  LA  VIRGINIA 

Cut  the  ends  from  fifty  small  okras  and  put 
into  a  buttered  saucepan  with  Tomato  Sauce 
to  cover,  adding  a  chopped  green  pepper,  and 
pepper  and  salt  to  season.  Cover  and  cook  for 
half  an  hour  and  serve  with  the  sauce. 

STEWED  OKRA  A  L'ESPAGNOLE 

Mix  one  cupful  of  Tomato  and  Espagnole 
Sauce  and  add  to  it  half  a  cupful  of  stock. 
Pare  the  okra  and  cook  it  in  the  sauce  for  half 
an  hour,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Sprin- 
kle with  minced  parsley  and  serve. 

STEWED  OKRA  WITH  TOMATO   SAUCE 

Heat  together  one  cupful  each  of  Espagnole 
and  Tomato  Sauce,  add  half  a  cupful  of  stock 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Cook  sufficient 
trimmed  okra  in  the  sauce  for  half  an  hour, 
take  up  carefully,  sprinkle  with  minced  parsley, 
and  serve. 

OKRA  A  LA  CREfOLE 

Chop  fine  an  onion,  a  clove  of  garlic,  and  a  small 
green  pepper  without  the  seeds.  Fry  in  butter 
and  add  six  or  eight  peeled  and  quartered 
tomatoes.  Simmer  for  half  an  hour,  then  add 
a  dozen  boiled  okra  pods,  cover,  and  simmer  until 


Owents  tniaigd  to  Cooft  9ftta       303 

the   mixture  thickens.     Season  with   salt  and 
serve  on  buttered  toast. 

OKRA  A  LA  HOLLANDAISE 

Scald  young  pods  of  okra,  then  drain,  and 
cover  with  cold  water.  Cook  until  tender  in 
stock  to  cover  and  serve  with  HoUandaise  Sauce. 
B^hamel  Sauce  may  be  used  instead,  if  a  little 
lemon-juice  is  added. 


SIXTY-THREE  WAYS  TO  COOK 

ONIONS 

BOILED  ONIONS— I 

Peel  the  onions  under  water.  Boil  until  tender 
in  salted  water  to  cover,  changing  the  water 
once.  Drain,  season  with  butter,  pepper,  salt, 
and  hot  cream,  or  reheat  in  White  or  Cream  Sauce, 
or  a  well  buttered  Velout6  Sauce.  A  bunch  of 
parsley  may  be  boiled  with  the  onions,  and  a  little 
of  the  cooking  liquid  may  be  added  to  the  sauce. 

BOILED  ONIONS— II 

Boil  small  peeled  onions  in  salted  water  to 
cover,  changing  the  water  three  times.  When 
tender,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  melted 
butter  and  add  enough  boiling  cream  to  moisten. 
Serve  immediately. 

BAKED  ONIONS—I 

Put  into  a  baking-dish,  roots  down,  and  bake 
for  an  hour  without  peeling.  Peel  and  finish 
baking,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  melted 
butter,  and  serve. 

BAKED  ONIONS— II 

Boil  six  large  peeled  onions  in  salted  water  to 

304 


Sixte-tCbtee  Wa^  to  Cook  Anions    305 

cover  or  in  equal  parts  of  miJk  and  water.  Drain 
and  mash,  seasoning  with  melted  butter.  Put 
into  a  baking-dish,  cover  with  crumbs,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Or,  put  the  boiled  whole 
onions  into  a  baking-dish,  cover  with  buttered 
crumbs,  and  bake. 

BAKED  ONIONS— III 

Peel  and  fry  a  dozen  small  onions,  seasoning 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar.  When  brown,  add 
stock  to  cover,  cover,  and  bake  until  soft. 

BAKED  ONIONS— IV 

Peel  three  or  four  medium-sized  Spanish 
onions  and  boil  in  salted  water  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Drain  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Let  stand  for 
half  an  hour,  drain,  cut  into  half -inch  slices,  and 
spread  on  a  buttered  baking-pan .  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven  until  light  brown,  basting  with  butter. 

BAKED  ONIONS— V 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  top  and  bottom  of  each 
onion  and  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water  to 
which  a  little  milk  has  been  added.  Drain, 
put  into  a  well-buttered  baking-pan,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar,  and  bake,  basting 
occasionally  with  the  cooking  liquid.  The  sugar 
may  be  omitted. 

BAKED  ONIONS— VI 

Cook  six  or  eight  onions  until  tender  in  boiling 


3o6  t)ow  to  Cooft  Vegetables 

water  to  cover,  changing  the  water  once.  Put 
into  a  buttered  baking-pan  with  a  cupful  or  more 
of  stock,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Bake 
until  the  onions  are  brown,  take  up  carefully, 
and  thicken  the  pan-gravy  with  flour  browned 
in  butter.  Pour  over  the  onions  and  serve  very 
hot. 

BAKED  ONIONS— VII 

Parboil  peeled  onions  for  ten  minutes,  drain, 
and  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  a  White  or 
Cream  Sauce  to  which  a  beaten  egg  has  been 
added.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  bake,  covered, 
for  twenty  minutes.     Then  uncover  and  brown. 

BAKED  ONIONS— VIII 

Boil  onions  for  twenty  minutes,  drain,  and  put 
into  a  baking-dish  with  a  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Sprinkle 
with  a  cupful  of  cracker-crumbs,  add  milk  to 
cover,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

BAKED  ONIONS— IX 

Cut  boiled  onions  into  quarters  and  put  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish.  Pour  over  a  White, 
Cream,  or  Drawn-Butter  Sauce.  Sprinkle  with 
buttered  cracker-cnunbs  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

BAKED  SPANISH  ONIONS 

Boil  large  white  onions  for  an  hour  in  salted 


Sixt^tibxcc  Wb,^  to  Ooott  d^niond    367 

water  without  peeling.  Wipe  dry,  roll  in 
buttered  papers  and  twist  at  both  ends  to 
keep  in  the  steam.  Bake  from  one  to  two 
hours.  Remove  the  papers,  peel,  and  serve 
with  seasoned  melted  butter  or  with  a  rich 
Brown  Sauce.  After  peeling,  they  may  be 
browned  in  the  oven,  basting  with  melted 
butter. 

BAKED  CREAMED  ONIONS 

Boil  peeled  onions  whole  in  salted  water  to 
cover,  changing  the  water  once.  Drain  and  put 
into  a  baking-dish.  Pour  over  a  Cream  Sauce, 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  brown. 
Or,  season  with  melted  butter,  moisten  with 
cream,  and  bake. 

GLAZED  ONIONS— I 

Peel  a  dozen  medium-sized  onions  and  soak 
for  an  hour  in  cold  water,  changing  the  water 
twice.  Put  into  a  deep  baking-pan  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
and  half  a  cupful  of  stock.  Arrange  the 
drained  onions  in  the  pan  so  that  they  do 
not  touch.  Cover  and  cook  either  on  top  of 
the  stove  or  in  the  oven  until  the  onions  are 
tender  and  the  outside  is  brown.  Uncover 
and  put  a  very  little  beef  extract  on  top 
of  each  onion.  Put  in  the  oven  until  the 
glaze  forms  on  top.  Pour  over  the  pan-gravy 
and  serve. 


3o8  1)ow  to  OooR  Ve0etable0 

GLAZED  ONIONS— II 

Peel  and  slice  half  a  dozen  onions  and  fry 
golden  brown  in  oil.  Take  up  the  onions  and 
cook  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  the  fat.  Add  a 
cupful  of  stock  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring 
constantly,  and  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Reheat  the  onions 
in  the  sauce  with  a  pinch  of  celery  seed  or  half 
a  cupful  of  chopped  celery.  Simmer  for  forty- 
five  minutes  and  serve. 

GLAZED  ONIONS— III 

Put  a  dozen  large  peeled  onions  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish  with  a  cupful  of  Espagnole  Sauce  and 
half  a  cupful  of  stock.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
put  a  small  bit  of  butter  on  each  onion.  Cover 
with  buttered  paper  and  bake  until  done  in  a 
moderate  oven,  basting  occasionally  with  the 
sauce.  Skim  and  strain  the  cooking  liquid, 
pour  over,  and  serve. 

GLAZED  ONIONS— IV 

Peel  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  little 
butter  and  salt  and  sugar  to  season.  Moisten 
with  stock,  cover  and  cook  very  slowly  until 
tender,  basting  frequently.  The  cooking  liquid 
may  be  thickened  with  flour  for  a  sauce. 

FRIED  ONIONS 
Peel,  slice  thin,  and  saut^  in  butter  or  pork 


Sixts«Q^btee  TPOlai^d  to  Cooft  Anions    309 

fat  or  put  into  a  frying  basket  and  fry  brown 
in  deep  fat.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
serve.  They  may  be  parboiled  for  fifteen 
minutes  before  frjring. 

FRENCH  PRIED  ONIONS 

Peel  and  slice  tbin  four  onions.  Dip  in  milk, 
dredge  with  flour,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 
The  milk  may  be  omitted. 

GERMAN  FRIED  ONIONS 

Parboil  sliced  onions  for  twenty  minutes  in 
salted  water,  changing  the  water  once.  Drain, 
fry  in  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
serve. 

FRIED  SPANISH  ONIONS 

Peel  and  slice  two  pounds  of  Spanish  onions 
and  put  into  a  frying-pan  with  half  a  cupful 
of  butter  smoking  hot,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Dust  with  cayenne  and 
cook  until  tender.  Serve  with  the  gravy  they 
yield  in  cooking. 

CREAMED  ONIONS 

Peel  small  onions  and  boU  until  tender, 
changing  the  water  several  times.  Or,  slice 
large  onions.  Mix  with  well  seasoned  Cream 
Sauce  and  serve.  Drawn-Butter  Sauce  may 
be  used  instead. 


310  1)ow  to  Cooft  vcQcttiblee 

CREAMED  ONIONS  WITH  RICE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Creamed  Onions,  and  add  more  sauce.  Add 
enough  cold  boiled  rice  to  make  the  mixture 
of  the  proper  consistency,  reheat,  and  serve. 

ESCALLOPED  ONIONS— I 

Put  a  layer  of  thin  slices  of  onions  into  a 
buttered  baking>dish  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter  to  season.  Cover  with  crumbs  and 
repeat  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  crumbs  on 
top.    Moisten  with  milk  and  bake  until  brown. 

ESCALLOPED  ONIONS— II 

Parboil  onions,  drain,  and  cut  into  bits.  Put 
a  thick  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking- 
dish  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  dots  of 
butter.  Cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  crumbs 
moistened  with  milk.  Repeat  until  the  dish 
is  full,  having  crumbs  on  top.  Pour  in  a  little 
cream,  cover,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour,  then 
uncover  and  brown. 

ESCALLOPED  ONIONS— III 

Boil  sliced  onions  until  tender  in  salted  water 
to  cover,  changing  the  water  once.  Drain,  mix 
with  Cream  Sauce,  and  put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter,  and,  if  desired,  add  a  little  grated  cheese. 
Bake  until  brown. 


Sixt^mXS^bxcc  Wiaasfi  to  Ooofi  Onions    311 

ESCALLOPED  ONIONS— IV 

Peel  and  slice  a  dozen  onions  and  boil  until 
tender.  Drain  and  put  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish  in  layers,  alternating  with  crumbs  and 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Have 
crumbs  and  butter  on  top.  Pour  over  a  cupful 
of  cream  and  bake  until  brown. 

ONIONS  A  LA  SUPREME 

Peel  and  slice  the  onions  and  cook  for  half 
an  hour  in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain 
and  reserve  the  liquid.  Thicken  a  cupful  of 
it  with  a  tkblespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
take  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  beaten  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream. 
Pour  the  sauce  over  the  onions  and  serve. 

ONIONS  A  LA  BlfeCHAMEL 

Peel  and  boil  a  dozen  white  onions  in  salted 
water  for  twenty  minutes.  Drain  and  finish 
cooking  in  Bechamel  Sauce.  Add  a  little  butter 
and  serve. 

ONIONS  A  L'lTALIENNE 

Peel  and  parboil  six  large  onions,  drain,  cool, 
and  scoop  out  part  of  the  inside.  Mix  together 
two  ounces  of  grated  cheese,  the  yolks  of  two 
hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  and  half  a  cupful 
of  bread-crumbs   soaked   in   cream.      Fill    the 


31  a  f)ow  to  Cooft  X)cgetnbl€B 

onions,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat, 
and  serve  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

MASHED  ONIONS  A  LA  BRETAGNE 

Peel  a  dozen  onions,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
drain,  and  rinse  in  cold  water.  Put  into  a  frying- 
pan  with  a  little  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
sugar,  and  cook  until  soft,  moistening  with  stock 
if  necessary.  When  very  soft,  add  a  little 
Spanish  Sauce  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Season 
with  pepper  and  melted  butter  and  serve. 

STEWED  ONIONS— I 

Peel  and  chop  fine  a  dozen  onions,  parboil, 
drain,  and  cook  in  butter.  Moisten  with  B^h- 
amel  Sauce,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar, 
and  rub  through  a  sieve. 

STEWED  ONIONS— II 

Cook  onions  until  tender  in  stock  to  cover. 
Drain  and  thicken  a  sufficient  quantity  of  the 
cooking  liquid  with  flour  browned  in  butter. 
Season  to  taste,  pour  over  the  onions,  and  serve. 

STEWED  ONIONS-III 

Peel  and  trim  half  a  dozen  Spanish  onions, 
scald,  and  drain.  Pack  closely  in  a  buttered 
saucepan  in  one  layer  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  sugar.  Put  a  large  lump  of  butter 
on  each  onion  and  cook  slowly  until  light  brown. 


Sixt^JLbvcc  Wnfi  to  CooVt  Anions    313 

Cover  with  stock  and  simmer  until  tender. 
Serve  on  toast  with  the  thickened  gravy  poured 
around.  The  gravy  may  be  flavored  with 
Tomato  Sauce  or  a  wineglassful  of  Claret  and 
a  small  chopped  pickle. 

STUFFED  ONIONS— I 

Boil  fine  white  onions  in  salted  water  for  an 
hour,  changing  the  water  three  times.  Drain, 
scoop  out  the  centre,  and  fill  with  bread-crumbs 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  grated  cheese,  and 
catsup.  Mash  a  little  of  the  onion  with  the 
stuffing  and  moisten  with  cream  or  milk.  Wrap 
each  onion  in  buttered  paper,  twist  the  ends, 
put  into  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  for  an  hour. 
Remove  the  paper,  pour  over  melted  butter,  and 
serve. 

STUFFED  ONIONS— II 

Parboil  a  dozen  large  white  onions  in  salted 
water  for  twenty  minutes,  adding  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  to  the  water.  Drain,  scoop  out 
the  inside,  and  chop  it  fine  with  an  equal 
quantity  each  of  bread-crumbs  and  mush- 
rooms. Reheat  the  stuffing  with  sufficient 
Espagnole  or  Brown  Sauce,  seasoning  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  minced  parsley.  Stujff  the 
onions,  put  them  into  a  buttered  baking- 
pan,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  put  a  small  piece 
of  butter  on  each  one,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  half  an  hour. 


3X4  t)OW  to  OOOft  X>CQCULbl€B 

STUFFED  ONIONS— III 

Cook  a  dozen  onions  in  salted  water  until 
nearly  tender,  changing  the  water  twice.  Drain, 
cool,  and  scoop  out  the  centres.  Fry  half  a 
dozen  mushrooms  in  butter  and  chop  fine  with 
the  onion  centres.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  bread- 
crumbs and  enough  Cream  or  White  Sauce  to 
mix  to  a  smooth  paste.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter,  and  fill  the  onions.  Put  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with  crumbs* 
dot  with  butter,  and  bake  for  twenty 
minutes,  basting  with  melted  butter  and  hot 
water.  The  onions  may  also  be  stuffed  with 
sausages. 

STUFFED  ONIONS— IV 

Peel  very  large  Bermuda  onions  and  soak  in 
cold  water  for  an  hour.  Parboil  for  half  an 
hour,  drain,  and  cut  out  the  centres.  Chop  the 
centres  with  a  little  salt  pork  or  bacon  and  add 
enough  bread-crumbs  to  make  the  required 
quantity  of  stuffing.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  mace  and  add  a  well-beaten  egg.  Add 
enough  cream  to  make  a  smooth  paste,  stuff 
the  onions,  and  put  into  a  baking-dish  with 
enough  hot  water  to  keep  from  burning.  Bake 
for  an  hour,  basting  frequently  with  melted 
butter.  Thicken  the  pan-gravy  with  flour 
browned  in  butter  and  add  a  little  cream. 
Season  with  lemon- juice,  bring  to  the  boil,  pour 
over  the  onions,  and  serve. 


SixVR^XOytcc  mwsB  to  Cooft  Anions    315 

STUFFED  ONIONS— y 

Boil  six  large  onions  slowly  for  an  hour  in 
clear  water.  Drain  and  cut  out  the  centres. 
Mix  together  one  tablespoonfvd  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonf  uls  of  minced  ham,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  each  of  bread-crumbs  and  milk  or  cream, 
one  egg  well  beaten,  and  salt  and  cayenne  to 
season.  Fill  the  centres,  sprinkle  with  crumbs, 
put  a  bit  of  butter  on  each  one,  and  bake  for 
an  hour.    Serve  with  Cream  Sauce. 

STUFFED  ONIONS— VI 

Boil  for  forty-five  minutes  without  peeling 
in  salted  water.  Drain,  skin,  and  remove  the 
centres.  Chop  the  centres  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  cold  cooked  chicken  and  add  enough  bread- 
crumbs to  make  the  required  quantity  of  stuffing. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  fill  the  onions,  and 
wrap  in  buttered  paper,  twisting  the  ends. 
Bake  for  an  hour,  take  off  the  paper,  and  serve 
with  Cream  or  Brown  Sauce.  Nuts  may  be 
used  instead  of  the  chicken. 

STUFFED  ONIONS— VII 

Peel  Spanish  onions,  parboil  for  ten  minutes, 
drain,  and  cool.  Scoop  out  the  centres  and  fill 
with  a  forcemeat  of  chopped  veal,  ham,  or 
chicken  well  seasoned  and  mixed  with  one- 
third  the  quantity  of  crumbs.  Season  with 
salt  and  cayenne  and  put  a  dot  of  butter  on 


3i6  Dow  to  dOOlt  \)CeCUiblCB 

each  one.  Pack  the  stuffed  onions  closely 
together  in  a  baking-dish  and  fill  the  spaces 
between  with  crumbs.  Sprinkle  the  tops  with 
crumbs  and  pour  in  an  inch  of  stock.  Cover 
and  cook  for  half  an  hour,  then  uncover  and 
brown. 

STUFFED  ONIONS— VIII 

Peel  the  onions  and  parboil  for  ten  minutes 
in  salted  water.  Drain  and  cool  upside  down, 
after  removing  part  of  the  centre.  Fill  the 
cavities  with  equal  parts  of  chopped  cooked 
chicken,  bread-crumbs,  and  chopped  onion 
pulp  taken  from  the  centres.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  moisten  with  cream  or  melted 
butter.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-pan,  sprinkle 
with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake. 

STUFFED  ONIONS— IX 

Parboil  and  drain  half  a  dozen  large  onions. 
Cut  out  the  centres  and  chop  them  with  half 
a  dozen  mushrooms,  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sausage  meat,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  capers,  one  small  pickle,  and 
minced  parsley,  salt,  and  pepper  to  season. 
Mix  with  half  a  cupful  of  stewed  tomatoes, 
fill  the  shells,  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  with  White  Sauce. 

STUFFED  ONIONS— X 

Peel  the  onions  and  from  the  stalk  end  take 


SixtiS^Sbtee  TUlaisd  to  Cook  ^nfona    317 

out  the  centre  of  the  onion,  parboil  for  ten 
minutes,  and  drain  upside  down.  Make  a 
stuffing  of  two  parts  of  chopped  cooked  chicken 
or  ham  to  one  of  bread-crumbs,  or  equal  parts 
of  meat  and  crtunbs,  add  the  minced  onion 
hearts,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  and  enough  stock  or  cream  to  moisten. 
Pill  the  onions  and  bake,  having  an  inch  of 
boiling  water  in  the  pan.  Sprinkle  with  crtunbs 
and  bake  for  an  hour  covered,  then  uncover 
and  brown.  A  mutton  kidney  may  be  placed 
in  each  one  instead  of  the  stuffing  and  the 
onions  may  be  served  with  Brown  Sauce. 

STUFFED  ONIONS— XI 

Peel  half  a  dozen  Spanish  onions,  scoop  out 
the  centres,  parboil  for  three  minutes,  drain, 
cool,  and  stuff  with  sausage  meat.  Butter  a 
baking-pan  and  put  in  a  sliced  carrot  and  a 
sliced  onion.  Arrange  the  onions  on  top,  pour 
in  a  cupful  of  stock,  cover  with  buttered  paper, 
and  bake  for  forty  minutes,  basting  frequently. 
Pour  over  the  pan-gravy  and  serve. 

STUFFED  ONIONS— XII 

Cut  out  the  centres  from  large  Spanish  onions 
and  blanch  the  shells  in  boiling  water.  Make 
a  forcemeat  of  chopped  chicken  and  ham  with 
minced  parsley  to  season.  Add  a  few  chopped 
mushrooms  and  fill  the  onions.  Cover  with 
thin  slices  of  bacon,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and 


3iS  f)ow  to  Cook  \tCQCtnblc0 

sugar,  and  bake,  moistening  with  stock  or  water 
to  keep  from  burning.  Strain  the  cooking 
liquid  over  for  sauce  when  serving. 

STUFFED  ONIONS— XIII 

Parboil  eight  large  peeled  onions  in  salted 
water.  Drain  and  remove  the  centre.  Chop 
the  pulp  fine  with  a  little  sausage  meat,  add 
a  cupful  of  crumbs,  one  egg  well  beaten,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  FiU  the  shells,  put 
into  a  deep  pan,  cover,  and  cook  in  a  steamer 
over  boiling  water  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Un- 
cover the  pan  and  brown  the  tops  of  the  onions 
in  the  oven,  moistening  with  stock  to  keep 
from  burning. 

CREAMED  STUFFED  ONIONS 

Boil  eight  large  onions  tmtil  tender,  drain, 
cool,  and  take  out  the  centres.  Chop  half  of 
the  centres  fine,  add  a  cupful  of  chopped  cooked 
ham  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Add  the  beaten 
yolk  of  an  egg  and  enough  cream  to  moisten. 
FiU  the  onions  and  put  a  bit  of  butter  on  top 
of  each.  Put  into  a  deep  baking-dish  with  a 
little  milk  and  bake,  covered,  for  twenty  minutes. 
Uncover,  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs,  and 
bake  ten  minutes  longer. 

STEWED  STUFFED  ONIONS 

Peel  and  blanch  the  required  number  of  large 
onions,  drain,  scoop  out  the  inside,  and  fill  with 


Sixt^^XLbtcc  Maisd  to  dooft  ^iond    319 

a  forcemeat  made  of  chopped  cooked  chicken 
and  seasoned  crumbs.  Put  the  oniony  into 
a  deep  saucepan,  cover  with  thin  slices  of  fat 
bacon,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  sugar,  and  bake, 
basting  with  stock  as  required.  Pour  over  the 
pan-gravy  and  serve. 

ROASTED  ONIONS— I 

Peel  the  onions  and  steam  for  an  hour  and 
a  half.  Bake,  basting  with  drippings,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

ROASTED  ONIONS— II 

Bake  onions  until  soft  without  peeling.  When 
done,  peel  carefully,  and  serve  with  melted 
butter  or  Cream  Sauce. 

GERMAN  ONION  PIE 

Slice  six  onions  and  fry  soft  in  equal  parts 
of  butter  and  lard.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  milk 
or  cream  and  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  well 
beaten.  Line  a  small  deep  baking-dish  with 
good  paste,  fill  with  the  onion  mixture,  and 
bake  brown.    Serve  in  the  same  dish. 

ONION  CUSTARD 

Cook  six  or  eight  onions  tender  in  boiling 
water,  changing  the  water  once.  Thicken  a 
pint  of  hot  milk  with  a  teaspoonful  of  com- 


320  f)ow  to  (took  VCQcUibice 

starch  rubbed  into  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter 
and  gradually  pour  the  sauce  upon  two  eggs 
well  beaten.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
pour  over  the  onions,  and  bake  until  the  custard 
is  set. 

ONIONS  WITH  EGGS 

Peel  and  slice  the  onions  and  fry  soft  in 
butter,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Drain 
thoroughly  and  put  on  a  serving-dish.  Squeeze 
over  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  cover  with  poached 
eggs,  and  serve. 

ONIONS  AND  CHEESE— I 

Peel  and  parboil  large  Spanish  onions,  drain, 
cool,  and  scoop  out  the  centres.  Make  a  stuffing 
of  bread-crumbs,  butter,  the  chopped  yolks  of 
hard-boiled  eggs,  and  enough  grated  IParmesan 
cheese  to  season  highly.  Add  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  smooth 
thick  paste.  Fill  the  onions  with  the  stuffing^ 
brush  with  beaten  egg^  sprinkle  with  crumbs, 
and  bake  brown.    Serve  with  Brown  Sauce. 

ONIONS  AND  CHEESE— II 

Peel  four  large  onions,  cut  into  half-inch 
slices,  and  put  into  a  large  flat  buttered  baking- 
dish  in  one  layer.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  bake  until  tender,  then  sprinkle  thickly 
with  grated  cheese  and  return  to  the  oven  until 


SixtiS'tEbtee  Wix^e  to  iodk  ^iond    3^2 

the  cheese  is  dissolved.    Take  up  carefully  and 
serve  with  mustard. 

ONION  SOUFFLE 

Peel  six  or  eight  onions  and  boil  until  tender, 
changing  the  water  once.  Chop  fine  with  a 
sprig  of  parsley,  add  salt  and  cayenne  pepper 
to  season  and  a  tablespoonf ul  each  of  butter  and 
cream.  Cool  and  add  one  cupful  of  very  thick 
Cream  Sauce,  the  yolk  of  one  egg  well  beaten, 
and  enough  soft  bread-crumbs  to  make  a  smooth 
thick  paste.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  two  or  three  eggs  and  bake  in  a  buttered 
souffle  dish.  Serve  with  Tomato  Cream  Sauce 
or  Cream  Sauce. 

STEWED  SPRING  ONIONS 

Cut  off  the  stalks,  remove  the  skin,  and  soak 
in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour.  Drain  and 
cook  in  boiling  salted  water  for  twenty  minutes. 
Drain  and  finish  cooking  in  milk  to  cover  with 
a  very  smaU  pinch  of  soda.  Thicken  the  cooking 
liquid  to  the  consistency  of  cream  with  a  little 
flour  rubbed  smooth  in  cold  milk. 

SPRING  ONIONS  ON  TOAST 

Chop  fine  a  bunch  of  spring  onions,  cover 
with  cold  water,  and  cook  until  tender,  changing 
the  water  once.  Drain  and  reheat  in  Cream 
Sauce.  Serve  on  sniall  rounds  of  buttered 
toast. 

ax 


3aa  t^OW  to  dOOft  IDCQCUiblCS 

SMOTHERED  SPANISH  ONIONS 
Boil  the  required  number  of  Spanish  onions 

• 

In  salted  water  to  cover  for  thirty  minutes. 
Drain  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  little 
melted  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
Cover  and  cook  slowly  imtil  very  tender,  basting 
with  the  drippings,  and  if  necessary  add  a  very 
little  water  or  stock  to  keep  from  burning. 

MASHED   ONIONS 

Cook  a  dozen  peeled  onions  until  soft  in 
chicken  stock  to  cover,  add  one  cupful  of  thick 
Bechamel  Sauce,  and  rub  through  a  sieve. 
Season  with  pepper  and  melted  butter  and 
serve. 

ONION  PARCI 

Peel  half  a  dozen  onions  and  cut  out  the 
centres.  Boil  for  ten  minutes  and  drain.  Fill 
with  a  stuffing  made  of  soaked  bread-crumbs 
and  chopped  chicken  or  meat  seasoned  with 
salt,  paprika,  minced  parsley,  and  a  little  of  the 
onion.  Mix  with  enough  melted  butter  to  form 
a  paste.  Stuff  the  onions  and  bake,  basting 
with  stock.  Sprinkle  with  battered  crumbs, 
and  serve  with  White  Sauce. 

ONIONS  IN  BROWN  SAUCE 

Sinmier  young  onions  for  ten  minutes  in 
salted  water,  then  drain  and  finish  cooking  in 


Slxts>*tt;bree  Mv^  to  (took  <Pniond    323 

beef  stock.  Take  up  the  onions  and  thicken 
the  gravy  with  flour  browned  in  butter.  Season 
with  kitchen  bouquet  and  tomato  catsup  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  over  the  onions 
and  serve.  The  catsup  may  be  omitted  and 
a  little  beef  extract  added.  Sliced  Spanish 
onions  are  cooked  in  the  same  way. 


TWENTY-FIVE  WAYS  TO  COOK 

PARSNIPS 

BOILED  PARSNIPS— I 

Wash,  scrape,  and  cut  into  eighths  lengthwise. 
Boil  for  an  hour  in  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain, 
pour  over  a  little  melted  butter,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  sugar,  and  serve. 

BOILED  PARSNIPS— II 

Boil  cleaned  parsnips  until  tender  in  salted 
water,  adding  a  little  butter  if  desired,  drain, 
rub  off  the  skins  with  a  rough  cloth,  put  into 
a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  melted  butter  and 
parsley  or  Butter  Sauce,  seasoning  with  pepper 
and  salt.  White  or  Cream  Sauce  may  be  used 
instead. 

BROILED  PARSNIPS 

Boil  parsnips  until  tender,  drain,  and  split 
lengthwise  into  half -inch  slices.  Dip  in  seasoned 
melted  butter  and  broil. 

BAKED  PARSNIPS— I 

Peel  and  qusirter  large  parsnips  lengthwise 
and   steam  for  an  hour  or  boil  until  tender. 

324 


tSwcnt^fivc  Wa^  to  Cooft  par6ni|)0  325 

Put  into  a  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
bake,  basting  with  drippings.  Or,  put  into 
the  pan  with  a  roast.    Serve  very  hot. 

BAKED  PARSNIPS— II 

Boil  until  tender,  peel,  split,  and  put  into 
a  baking-pan  flat  side  down.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  bake  until  brown,  basting  with 
melted  butter  and  S3rrup.  Parsnips  may  be 
baked  according  to  directions  given  for  Sweet 
Potatoes. 

BUTTERED  PARSNIPS 

Boil  the  parsnips  until  tender,  scrape  ofE 
the  skin,  and  cut  lengthwise  in  thin  slices.  Put 
into  a  saucepan  with  three  or  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  and  pepper,  salt,  and  minced 
parsley  to  season.  Shake  over  the  fire  until  the 
mixture  boils  and  serve  with  the  sauce  poured 
over.  A  little  cream  may  be  added  to  the 
sauce.  Sprinkle  the  parsnips  with  minced 
parsley  before  serving. 

CREAMED  PARSNIPS 

Boil  parsnips  in  salted  water  until  tender, 
drain,  peel,  cut  into  dice,  and  reheat  in  a  well- 
seasoned  Cream  Sauce.  Sprinkle  with  minced 
parsley  if  desired,  and  add  a  little  more  butter. 

PARSNIP  BALLS— I 
3oil  six  large  parsnips,  cool,  peel,  and  grate. 


396  f)OW  to  OOOVt  \>€(i€Uif)lCB 

Add  two  eggs  well  beaten  and  enough  flour  to 
bind  the  mixture  together.  Season  to  taste, 
mould  into  small  flat  cakes,  and  saut^  in  butter, 
or  shape  into  balls,  first  rubbing  the  hands 
with  flour,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Three  parsnips 
may  be  used,  with  a  cupful  of  milk,  adding  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  if  desired. 

PARSNIP  BALLS— II 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  boiled  mashed 
parsnips,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter 
and  cream,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
Heat  thoroughly,  take  from  the  fire,  add  one 
egg  well  beaten,  and  cool.  Shape  into  small 
balls,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep 
fat,  or  shape  into  flat  cakes  and  saut6  in  drip- 
pings.    Add  flour  if  necessary. 

PARSNIP  CAKES— I 

Boil  three  or  four  parsnips  until  tender, 
drain,  peel,  and  mash.  Mix  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  egg  well 
beaten,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  enough 
milk  to  moisten.  Shape  into  small  flat  cakes 
and  saut6  in  butter  or  pork  fat.  The  milk  may 
be  omitted  if  the  mixture  is  moist  enough. 

PARSNIP  CAKES— II 

Wash  the  parsnips  and  cook  for  forty-five 
minutes  in  boiling  salted  water.  Drain,  plunge 
into  cold  water,  and  remove  the  skins.     Mash, 


tSvocnt^mfivc  Wnvfi  to  Cooft  patenipe  337 

season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  shape  into 
small  flat  cakes,  and  saut6  in  butter  or  drippings. 

PARSNIP  CAKES— III 

Peel  and  cut  up  three  or  four  parsnips.  Cook 
until  soft  in  salted  water,  adding  a  tablespoonf ul 
of  flour.  Drain,  chop  fine,  press  through  a 
colander,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten.  Heat 
thoroughly,  adding  a  little  flour,  and  cook  to 
a  stiff  paste.  Cool,  shape  into  small  flat  cakes, 
dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  brown  in  fat 
to  cover. 

ESCALLOPED  PARSNIPS— I 

Prepare  Creamed  Parsnips  according  to  direc- 
tions previously  given,  cutting  the  parsnips 
into  dice.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish 
in  layers,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  chopped 
onion.  Cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter, 
and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

ESCALLOPED  PARSNIPS— II 

Mash  enough  boiled  parsnips  to  make  a  pint. 
Add  two  tablesx>oonfuls  each  of  butter  and 
cream,  one  egg  well  beaten  and  a  pinch  each 
of  salt  and  pepper.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish  alternate  layers  of  parsnips  and  crumbs, 
having  crumbs  on  top.  Melt  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  in  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  milk,  season 


338  Dow  to  Cooii  }0cg€t9bleB 

with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over  the  parsnips. 
Bake  until  brown  and  serve  in  the  baking-dish. 
The  layers  of  cnunbs  and  the  milk  may  be 
omitted. 

PRIED  PARSNIPS— I 

Peel  the  parsnips  and  boil  until  tender  in 
salted  water  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Drain  and  cut  into  half-inch  slices  lengthwise 
or  small  strips.  Season  with  salt  and  cool. 
Dip  in  hot  molasses  and  fry  in  butter  until 
brown.  Or,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs  and  fry, 
sprinkle  with  brown  sugar,  and  put  into  the 
oven  for  ten  minutes. 

FRIED  PARSNIPS— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Pried  Parsnips  I,  dredge  with  seasoned  flour 
or  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  brown  in 
fat  to  cover.  Or,  saut6  in  equal  parts  of  batter 
and  lard. 

FRIED  PARSNIPS— III 

Boil  parsnips,  peel,  and  cut  into  strips.  Saut^ 
in  butter,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  minced 
parsley,  and  serve.  Or,  dip  the  strips  in  a  fritter 
batter  made  of  half  a  cupful  of  flour,  two  eggs, 
a  tablespoonful  of  olive-oil,  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  nutmeg  to  season,  and  enough  water 
to  make  the  batter  of  the  proper  consistency. 
Fry  in  deep  fat. 


Zv^cnt^mfivc  WiB;^  to  Coo^  patenipa  329 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS 

Grrate  enough  cold  boiled  parsnips  to  make 
a  pint.  Sift  together  a  pint  of  flour,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
baking-powder.  Mix  with  two  eggs  beaten 
with  a  pint  of  milk.  Add  the  grated  parsnips, 
mix  thoroughly,  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into 
deep  fat.  * 

PARSNIPS  WITH  DRAWN-BUTTER  SAUCE 

Wash  and  scrape  parsnips  and  cut  into  strips. 
Cook  until  soft  in  boiling  salted  water,  drain, 
reheat  in  Drawn-Butter  Sauce,  sprinkle  with 
minced  parsley,  and  serve.  Use  part  of  the 
cooking  liquid  in  the  sauce  if  desired.  Minced 
onion  and  lemon- juice  may  be  added  to  the 
seasoning. 

PARSNIP  TIMBALES 

Boil,  peel,  and  mash  four  large  parsnips.  Add 
two  eggs  beaten  with  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  and 
salt,  pepper,  and  onion- juice  to  season.  Line 
the  bottoms  of  small  timbale  moulds  with 
buttered  paper,  fill  with  the  mixture,  and  bake 
for  twenty  minutes  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 
Take  out  carefully  and  serve  with  Cream  Sauce. 

MASHED  PARSNIPS 

Peel  and  cut  up  the  parsnips  and  cook  until 
t^ender   in   boiling   salted   w^ter  with   a   littlQ 


330 


Dow  to  Oooli  vegetablea 


butter.  Drain  and  mash,  pressing  out  all  the  liq- 
uid possible.  Reheat  with  milk  or  cream  to  moist- 
en, season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  serve. 

STEWED  PARSNIPS— I 

Wash,  scrape  and  slice  into  half-inch  slices. 
Cook  in  as  little  water  as  possible  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
season.  Cook  until  all  the  water  has  been 
absorbed  and  serve  with  melted  butter. 

STEWED  PARSNIPS— II 

Scrape  and  split  lengthwise  six  young  parsnips 
and  cook  until  tender  in  salted  water  to  cover 
with  two  sweet  potatoes,  peeled  and  sliced. 
Thicken  a  cupful  of  the  cooking  liquid  with  a 
tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flotir  cooked 
together,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt.  Stir 
in  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  heat  for  a 
moment,  and  serve. 

STEWED  PARSNIPS— III 

Scrape  the  parsnips  and  cut  into  cubes.  Boil 
until  tender  in  salted  water  and  drain.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  and  moisten  with 
boiling  miUc. 

PARSNIPS  STEWED  WITH  BACON 

Peel  half  a  dozen  parsnips  and  boil  with  six 
thin  slices  of  bacon.  Let  the  water  boil  away  and 
fry  down  to  a  rich  brown.    Serve  with  the  bacon. 


FIFTY-THREE  WAYS  TO  COOK  PEAS 

BOILED  PEAS— I 

Shell  half  a  peck  of  green  peas  and  soak  for 
half  an  hour  in  cold  water.  Drain  and  cook  until 
soft  in  boiling  water,  using  as  little  as  possible. 
When  the  peas  are  tender,  season  with  pepper 
and  sugar,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour  and  half  a  cupful  of  milk  or  stock.  Cook 
until  smooth  and  thick  and  serve.  Or,  season 
with  pepper,  cream,  and  melted  butter.  The 
cream  may  be  omitted. 

BOILED  PEAS— II 

Shell  a  peck  of  green  peas  and  cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender.  Drain,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter  or  cream,  and  serve 
immediately.  A  small  bimch  of  green  mint  or 
parsley  or  two  or  three  young  onions  or  a  table- 
spoonful  of  minced  onion  may  be  boiled  with 
them.  A  little  sugar  may  be  added  to  sweeten 
them.  • 

CANNED  PEAS— I 

Drain  a  can  of  peas  and  rinse  thoroughly. 
Reheat,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and 

331 


33^  t>ow  to  COOft  X^CQCtnblCS 

sugar,  and  mix  with  Cream  or  White  Sauce 
just  before  serving.  Or,  add  a  cupful  of  stock 
and  a  little  minced  parsley  instead  of  the  Cream 
Sauce. 

CANNED  PEAS— II 

Drain  and  rinse  thoroughly  in  cold  water. 
Reheat  in  a  double  boiler  with  half  a  cupful  of 
cold  water,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful 
each  of  butter  and  sugar.  Cover  and  cook  for 
half  an  hour. 

CREAMED  PEAS 

Boil  peas  until  soft  in  water  to  cover,  adding 
a  pinch  of  salt  during  the  last  fifteen  minutes. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  and  reheat 
in  Cream  or  White  Sauce.  A  little  sugar  may 
be  added  to  the  seasoning.  Canned  peas  may 
be  used. 

PEA  CHOWDER 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Baked  Mashed  Peas.  Add  to  the  peas  a  can  of 
corn,  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
season.  Cover  and  cook  slowly  for  thirty 
minutes,  then  add  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter  and 
serve. 

BAKED  MASHED  PEAS 

Soak  a  pint  of  split  peas  over  night.  Drain, 
pover  with  co}d  water^  add  a  pinch  of  soda^  an4 


fitt^^Hbtte  M^^  to  Cooft  pea^     333 

cook  slowly  for  three  hours  or  more.  Drain  and 
press  through  a  colander.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  moistening  with  boiling  milk,  and 
beat  until  light.  Turn  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish  and  bake  for  an  hour.  Serve  in  the  same 
dish.  Or,  cook  according  to  directions  given 
for  Boston  Baked  Beans,  omitting  mustard 
and  molasses  from  the  seasoning. 

BAKED  DRIED  PEAS 

Soak  a  pint  of  split  peas  over  night.  In  the 
morning  drain  and  put  into  an  earthen  baking- 
dish  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter  and  one 
of  salt.  Cover  with  hot  water  and  bake  for 
five  hours,  adding  more  water  if  required. 

BUTTERED  PEAS 

Cook  a  quart  of  green  peas  in  salted  water, 
using  as  little  as  possible  and  adding  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Thicken  with  flour  cooked 
in  butter,  then  add  more  butter,  a  pinch  of 
sugar,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 

DRIED  PEAS 

Soak  two  cupfuls  of  dried  peas  over  night, 
parboil,  drain,  and  put  into  fresh  water  with  a 
piece  of  ham  or  bacon  to  give  flavor.  Or,  they 
may  be  seasoned  with  cream  or  milk  and  butter. 

PEA  CROQUETTES 

Boil  a  pint  of  peas  or  a  can  of  peas  until  soft 


534  t)ow  to  Cook  VegetabCed 

in  salted  water  to  cover.  Mash  through  a  sieve 
and  beat  to  a  smooth  paste  with  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  onion- juice,  add 
one  egg  well  beaten,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
to  a  stifiE  paste.  Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in 
^g  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

PEAS  EN  CROUSTADES 

Boil  a  quart  of  peas  with  a  sprig  of  mint  until 
tender.  Make  a  sauce  of  one  cupful  of  milk, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  well  beaten,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
Mix  with  the  peas  and  flU  Swedish  timbale  shells 
or  croustades.  These  are  made  by  cutting  stale 
bread  in  blocks,  hollowing  out  the  centres,  and 
toasting  or  frying  the  shells  thus  made.  Half 
a  cupful  of  cooked  carrots  cut  into  dice,  fried  in 
butter,  and  seasoned  with  a  few  drops  of  lemon- 
juice,  may  be  added  to  the  peas. 

CURRY  OF  PEAS  AND  POTATOES 

Peel  two  potatoes  and  cut  into  thin  slices. 
Parboil,  drain,  and  finish  cooking  with  a  pint  of 
shelled  peas  in  weU-seasoned  stock  to  cover. 
Thicken  with  flour  cooked  in  butter,  season  with 
curry  powder,  and  serve. 

PEA  CAKES 

Boil  three  cupf  uls  of  peas  in  salted  water  until 
tender.     Drain  and  mash,  seasoning  with  salt. 


fitV&^Xlbtec  m$w  to  Cocfc  |>ca0     335 

pepper,  and  butter.  Make  a  batter  of  a  cupful 
of  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  and  half  a  cupful  of 
flour  sifted  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking- 
powder.  Stir  the  pulp  into  the  batter,  mixing 
thoroughly,  and  fry  by  spoonfuls  in  deep  fat. 

FRENCH  PEAS 

Drain  a  can  of  French  peas  and  rinse  in  cold 
water.  Reheat  with  half  a  cupful  of  stock,  a 
tablespoonf ul  of  butter,  and  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
salt  and  sugar.  Cook  uncovered  until  the  liquid 
is  absorbed.  Fresh  peas  may  be  used  in  the 
same  way. 

PEA  FRITTERS 

Cook  a  quart  of  shelled  peas  until  soft  in  boiling 
salted  water.  Drain,  mash,  and  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  salt  to  season.  Beat  four 
eggs  with  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  milk  and  add  a 
cupful  of  flour  in  which  has  been  sifted  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking-powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat 
the  mashed  peas  by  spoonfuls  into  the  batter  and 
fry  on  a  hot  griddle. 

PEAS  AND  RICE 

Put  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter  into  a  frying- 
pan,  add  one  cupful  of  well-washed  rice,  and 
cook  until  the  rice  is  golden  brown,  stirring 
constantly.  Add  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and 
a  can  of  peas  drained  or  an  equal  quantity  of 
shelled  peas.    Season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and 


336  ibow  to  (took  tPegetaMed 

add  sugar  to  taste.  Put  into  a  baking-dish  and 
bake  until  the  rice  is  tender.  Serve  in  the  same 
dish. 

GREEN  PEAS  WITH  HAM 

Cut  half  a  pound  of  raw  ham  into  dice.  Par- 
boil, drain,  and  fry.  Dredge  with  flour  and 
add  three  pints  of  shelled  peas,  three  sprig^s 
of  parsley,  and  two  green  onions.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  to  season,  cover,  and  cook 
slowly  for  half  an  hour.  Remove  the  parsley 
and  onions,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  serve. 
Diced  salt  pork  may  be  used  instead  of  tlie 
ham  and  a  pint  of  water  added  with  tbe 
peas. 

PEAS  WITH  BACON— I 

Cook  a  pint  of  peas  until  tender  in  water  to 
cover  with  a  slice  of  bacon  chopped  fine.  Drain 
off  nearly  all  the  water,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  batter  and  a  cup- 
ful of  boiling  cream. 

PEAS  WITH  BACON— -II 

Scald  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon,  cut  into 
small  thin  pieces.  Drain,  and  fry,  adding  a 
little  butter.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and 
when  the  flour  is  cooked  add  two  cupfuls  of 
water  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  a  quart  of  shelled  peas  and  an  onion  and 
cook   slowly   for  half  an  hour.     Remove   the 


fitt^^Uhxcc  Wiwsfi  to  (took  ^ad     337 

onion,  skim  the  fat  from  the  liquor,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

GREEN  PEAS  WITH  LETTUCE 

Put  three  pints  of  shelled  peas  into  a  saucepan 
with  four  tablespoonf uls  of  butter,one  tablespoon- 
f ul  of  sugar,  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  six  small 
white  onions.  Cover  and  cook  for  half  an  hour 
and  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  cooked 
in  butter  and  rubbed  smooth  with  a  little  of  the 
cooking  liquid.  Parboil  eight  trimmed  heads 
of  lettuce,  cool,  press  out  the  liquid,  and  finish 
cooking  with  a  little  white  stock,  covering  with  a 
buttered  paper.  Serve  the  drained  lettuce  as  a 
border  around  the  peas. 

GREEN  PEAS  WITH  ONIONS 

Cook  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  butter,  add  a 
pint  of  water,  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring 
constantly.  Add  three  pints  of  green  peas,  a 
smaU  bunch  of  parsley,  and  a  dozen  small  white 
onions.  Cook  uncovered  for  half  an  hour,  then 
take  up  the  parsley  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  broken 
into  bits,  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten. 
Heat  thoroughly,  but  do  not  boil,  and  serve. 

GREEN  PEAS  WITH  SPANISH  SAUCE 

Wash  and  drain  a  quart  of  shelled  peas  and 
put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  lump  of  butter,  a 
btinch  of  parsley,  and  two  or  three  green  onions. 

93 


338  t>ow  to  Coor;  tpedetable0 

Cover,  put  into  a  steamer,  and  steam  until  tender. 
Add  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  or  less  of  Spanish 
Sauce,  season  with  sugar  and  salt,  skim  off  the  fat, 
and  simmer  until  the  sauce  is  much  reduced. 
Thicken  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and 
serve  garnished  with  small  slices  of  bread  fried  in 
bacon  fat. 

GREEN  PEAS  AND  EGG  BARLEY 

Mix  together  one  egg  slightly  beaten,  seven- 
eighths  of  a  cupful  of  flour,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
The  dough  should  be  very  stiff.  Grate,  chop, 
or  rub  the  dough  through  a  colander.  Dry 
for  a  few  moments  in  the  oven.  Heat  one-quarter 
of  a  cupful  of  butter  and  cook  the  egg  barley 
in  it  until  a  golden  brown.  Continue  according 
to  directions  given  for  Green  Peas  and   Rice. 

PEAS  IN  TURNIP  CUPS 

Peel  small  white  turnips  and  boil  until  tender 
in  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  cut  a  slice  from 
the  top  of  each,  and  scoop  out  the  centre,  making^ 
a  cup.  Put  a  bit  of  butter  and  pepper  into  each 
cup  and  fill  with  creamed  peas  prepared  accord- 
ing to  directions  previously  given.  Gamish 
with  sprigs  of  parsley  or  sprinkle  with  minced 
parsley.     Canned  peas  may  be  used. 

PUREE  OF  PEAS— I 

Boil  a  pint  of  fresh  shelled  peas  in  salted  water 
until  tender,  drain,  and  rub  through  a  sieve. 


9tttfi»(Ebtee  Witiv  to  Cook  peas     339 

Add  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one 
tablesxxx)nful  of  flour,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
season.  Add  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  milk, 
having  half  of  it  cream.  Heat  thoroughly, 
beating  constantly,  and  serve.  Or,  put  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish  and  bake. 

PURiE  OF  PEAS— II 

Cook  a  quart  of  green  peas  in  water  to  cover 
for  twenty  minutes.  Press  through  a  colander. 
Put  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler  with  a  bay- 
leaf,  an  onion,  two  cloves,  and  a  sprig  of  parsley. 
A  slice  of  ham  may  be  added.  Simmer  while  the 
peas  are  cooking.  Strain  the  milk  into  the  peas, 
thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and 
flotir  cooked  together.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  serve. 

pur]6e  op  peas— III 

Shell  half  a  peck  of  peas  and  boil  the  pods  for 
twenty  minutes  in  salted  water  to  cover.  Strain 
and  cook  the  peas  in  the  same  water  with  a  sprig 
of  mint  until  soft.  Press  through  a  colander, 
add  to  them  a  cupful  of  the  cooking  liquid,  and 
reheat,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt.  Thicken 
with  a  tablesx>oonftd  of  flour  cooked  in  butter, 
take  from  the  fire,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream  and  a  bit  of  soda.  Serve  on  toast.  Or, 
boil  a  quart  of  peas  rubbed  through  a  colander 
and  reheat  with  salt,  paprika,  sugar,  and  finely 
chopped  mint  leaves  to  season. 


340  f>ow  to  Cooft  tt)e0etab(e6 

PUREE  OF  PEAS— IV 

Cook  green  peas  in  a  saucepan  with  as  little 
water  as  possible.  Press  through  a  sieve,  moisten 
with  stock,  and  bring  to  the  boil.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
and  serve.  Garnish  with  croiltons  and  serve 
with  boiled  rice. 

PUREE  OP  PEAS— V 

Boil  a  quart  of  green  peas  with  a  sliced  onion, 
a  bunch  of  parsley,  and  salt  and  butter  to  season, 
using  as  little  water  as  possible.  Drain,  press 
through  a  sieve,  season  with  butter,  sugar,  and 
pepper,  and  serve. 

PUR^E  OF  PEAS— VI 

Boil  shelled  peas  until  very  tender,  drain,  and 
press  through  a  sieve.  Reheat  with  a  little 
hot  milk,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  butter, 
and  sugar.  Dried  peas  may  be  used  if  they 
are  soaked  over  night. 

STEWED  PEAS— I 

Cook  shelled  peas  until  tender  in  salted  water 
to  cover,  adding  a  little  sugar.  Thicken  the 
cooking  liquid  with  flour  cooked  in  butter,  and 
serve. 

STEWED  PEAS— II 

Shell  enough  green  peas  to  make  three  pints 


fitt^tShtcc  Wn^  to  aooH  pea0     341 

and  cook  the  pods  for  an  hour  in  boiling  water 
with  a  little  salt.  Strain  and  cook  the  peas  in 
the  same  liquid.  Season  to  taste,  thicken  with 
flour  cooked  in  butter,  and  serve.  Or,  season 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  pinch  of 
sugar. 

STEWED  PEAS— III 

Put  a  quart  of  shelled  peas  into  a  saucepan  with 
plenty  of  water  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter.  Rub  the  peas  and  butter  together  until 
well  mixed,  then  drain  off  the  water  and  add 
two  cabbage  leaves  shredded,  a  small  bunch 
of  parsley,  three  green  onions,  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Cover  and  cook  for  half  an  hour.  Cook  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  in  butter,  thicken  the  cooking 
liquid  with  it,  heat  thoroughly,  and  serve. 

STEWED  PEAS— IV 

Shell  a  peck  of  peas  and  put  into  a  bowl 
with  a  pint  of  cold  water  and  two  tablespoonf  uls 
of  butter.  Work  with  the  hands  to  make  the 
butter  stick  to  the  peas.  Drain  and  put  into 
a  saucepan  with  half  a  dozen  young  onions,  two 
heads  of  lettuce  shredded,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a 
teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Cover  tightly  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire 
for  half  an  hour,  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  water 
when  required.  Shake  the  saucepan  occasionally. 
Thicken  the  cooking  liquid  with  flour  oookied  in 


343  Dow  to  doolt  De0etable0 

butter  or  with  one  egg  beaten  smooth  with  a 
tablespoonf ul  of  water. 

STEAMED  PEAS 

Put  shelled  green  peas  into  a  covered  saucepan, 
put  into  a  steamer,  and  cook  over  boiling  water 
until  tender.  Season  when  done  and  add  a  little 
hot  milk  or  cream.  Or,  add  a  little  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt  before  cooking. 

PEA  PATTIES 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Stewed  Peas — I,  using  a  pint  of  peas,  omitting  the 
sugar,  and  adding  to  the  sauce  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  beaten  smooth  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream.  Fill  timbale  or  patty  shells  and 
serve. 

PEA  PANCAKES 

Mash  two  cupfuls  of  boiled  peas  and  press 
through  a  sieve.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter,  cool,  and  add  two  eggs  beaten  with  a  cup- 
ful  of  milk.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  flour  sifted 
with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  mix 
thoroughly,  and  fry  on  a  buttered  griddle. 

RAGOt^T  OF  GREEN  PEAS 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Ragout  of  Potatoes.  If  dried  peas  are  used 
they  must  be  soaked  over  night. 


SiXt^Zbtcc  vmwss  to  Cooft  pea0     343 

PEA  TIMBALES 

Mix  one  cupful  of  pea  pulp  with  two 
beaten  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  one 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  with  salt,  red 
and  black  pepper,  and  onion-juice  to  season. 
Turn  into  buttered  timbale  moulds  and  bake 
until  firm  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Turn  out 
and  serve  with  Cream  Sauce  to  which  a  few 
cooked  and  drained  peas  have  been  added. 
Finely  chopped  mint  may  be  added  to  the  sea- 
soning and  cubes  of  cooked  carrot  to  the  sauce. 

PEA  PUDDING 

Soak  a  quart  of  dried  i>eas  over  night.  In  the 
morning  cook  until  soft  in  water  to  cover  with 
a  small  onion.  Drain,  rub  through  a  colander, 
and  beat  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt  to  season,  and  three  eggs  well  beaten. 
Boil  in  a  buttered  mould  for  an  hour,  turn  out, 
and  serve  in  slices. 

PEA  S0UPPL6 

Boil  a  pint  of  shelled  peas  until  very  soft  and 
mash  through  a  colander.  Add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  melted  butter  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
beaten  with  two  cupfuls  of  milk.  Beat  thor- 
oughly, season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fold  in 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish  and  bake  covered  for  twenty  min- 
utes, then  uncover  and  brown. 


344  1}ow  to  Cooft  JJOcgetablcB 

PEAS  A  L'ANGLAISE 

Cook  a  quart  of  peas  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  a  chopped  onion,  a  teaspoonful  of 
sugar»  a  sprig  of  mint,  and  half  a  cupful  of  milk. 
Cover  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove 
the  mint,  and  thicken  with  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  beaten  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream. 
Serve  with  a  border  of  boiled  rice. 

DRIED  PEAS  A  L'ALLEMANDE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Baked  Mashed  Peas,  drain,  add  six  sliced  onions, 
salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  two  cupfuls  of 
boiling  water.  Cover  and  simmer  for  half  an 
hour,  then  add  half  a  cupful  of  well-washed 
rice,  and  cook  for  half  an  hour  longer.  Serve 
with  a  sauce  made  of  a  pint  of  stewed  and  strained 
tomatoes  thickened  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour  cooked  in  butter  and  seasoned  to 
taste. 

PEAS  A  LA  BOURGEOISE 

Put  a  quart  of  shelled  green  peas  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  a  head  of  lettuce, 
a  bunch  ^of  parsley,  three  or  four  small  onions, 
and  a  little  salt.  Cook  slowly  until  tender,  adding 
enough  stock  or  water  to  moisten.  Take  out  the 
onions,  parsley,  and  lettuce  and  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  sugar  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Heat  thoroughly,  but  do  not  boil,  and  serve. 


fitt^mjasftcc  TRBaise  to  OooR  Deaa     345 

Or  leave  the  vegetables  in  with  the  peas  and 
omit  the  thickening. 

PEAS  A  LA  FRANgAISB— I 

Cook  a  quart  of  peas  with  a  shredded  head  of 
lettuce,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  using  no 
water  unless  absolutely  necessary.  If  they  are 
steamed  no  liquid  will  be  required.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter  or  mix  with  White  or 
Cream  Sauce. 

PEAS  A  LA  FRANgAISE— II 

Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  a  quart  of  shelled  peas,  and  heat  for  a  minute 
or  two.  Pour  over  boiling  water  or  weak  stock, 
using  barely  enough  to  cover.  Add  a  pinch 
each  of  salt  and  pepper,  the  heart  leaves  of  a 
head  of  lettuce  shredded  fine,  three  young 
onions,  and  a  sprig  of  parsley.  Simmer  slowly 
until  the  peas  are  tender.  Take  from  the  fire  and 
add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs. 

PEAS  X  LA  FRANCAISE— III 

Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  fiour  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with 
two  cupfuls  of  shelled  peas  and  a  cupful  of  water. 
Add  six  small  onions  and  a  small  bunch  of  parsley, 
cover,  and  cook  for  forty  minutes.  Take  out  the 
parsley  and  stir  in  the  yolk  of  one  egg  well  beaten. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  butter,  and 
serve  very  hot. 


346  t>ow  to  dooR  }0e§etnbleB 

PEAS  A  LA  PRANgAISB— IV 

Put  a  quart  of  shelled  peas  into  a  saucepan 
with  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  water,  four  or  five  very  small  white  onions,  a 
tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  little 
salt.  Cover  and  cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour. 
Thicken  with  flour  cooked  in  butter,  heat 
thoroughly,  and  serve. 

DRIED  PEAS  A  LA  PRANgAISE 

Soak  a  pint  of  well-washed  dried  peas  for  six 
hours  in  water  to  cover.  Add  a  teaspoonf ul  each 
of  salt,  sugar,  and  butter  and  a  small  onion. 
Simmer  for  an  hour  and  serve,  removing  the 
onion  if  desired. 

PEAS  A  LA  PROVENCE— I 

Parboil  four  heads  of  lettuce  in  stock,  remove 
the  centres,  and  fill  with  green  peas  seasoned 
with  minced  onion  and  dredged  with  a  little 
fiour.  Tie  into  shape  and  simmer  for  an  hour 
in  white  stock  to  cover.  Remove  the  strings, 
season  to  taste,  and  serve  on  toast. 

PEAS  A  LA  PROVENCE— II 

Cut  into  shreds  a  large  bunch  of  parsley,  a 
bunch  of  leaf  lettuce,  the  heart  of  a  cabbage, 
and  three  or  four  green  onions.  Put  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  three  quarts  of  green  peas  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.     Cover  and  cook  over  a  slow 


fitt^JLbtcc  Tnias0  to  Ooolt  peaa     347 

fire  or  steam  without  other  liquid,  stirring  occa- 
sionally to  prevent  burning.  When  well  cooked, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. 

PEAS  A  LA  WALDORF 

Shell  three  quarts  of  green  peas  and  put  into 
a  saucepan  with  a  head  of  lettuce  tied  in  shape 
with  a  string.  Add  four  tablespoonf uls  of  butter, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  barely  enough  water  to  keep 
from  burning.  Cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  take 
up  the  lettuce,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
sugar,  a  little  pepper,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
beaten  smooth  with  three  tablespoonf  uls  of  cream. 
Heat  thoroughly,  but  do  not  boil,  and  serve. 
The  egg  and  cream  may  be  omitted. 


THIRTY-THREE  WAYS  TO  COOK 

PEPPERS     . 

BROILED  GREEN  PEPPERS 

Cut  six  green  peppers  into  quarters,  remove 
the  seeds,  and  broil  over  a  very  hot  fire  until 
the  edges  curl.  Spread  with  butter,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  and  serve  with  broiled  steak. 

FRIED  PEPPERS— I 

Remove  the  stem8^  and  seeds,  cut  into  rings, 
and  soak  for  half  an  hour  in  cold  water.  Drain, 
dry,  dip  in  flour  seasoned  with  salt,  and  fry  in 
fat  to  cover. 

FRIED  PEPPERS— II 

Scald,  split,  and  remove  the  seeds  and  skin. 
Fry  slowly  in  oil,  seasoning  with  salt,  and,  if 
desired,  minced  onion  and  parsley.  Or,  soak 
in  cold  salted  water  for  ten  minutes,  drain,  and 
saut6  in  butter. 

PEPPERS  A  LA  CREOLE 

Seed  and  slice  half  a  dozen  green  peppers  and 
soak  in  cold  salted  water  for  half  an  hour.  Drain, 
wipe  dry,  fry  in  butter,  and  chop  fine.     Boil  half 

34S 


tibitt^^tLbtcc  Maisd  to  Coofc  t>cppet6   349 

a  cupful  of  rice  and  put  into  a  serving-dish. 
Spread  the  peppers  upon  it  and  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  stock  and  a  teaspoonful  of  onion- 
juice  to  the  fat  in  which  they  were  fried.  Pour 
over  the  peppers  and  rice,  put  into  the  oven  for  a 
few  moments,  afid  serve.  The  stock  and  onion- 
juice  may  be  omitted  and  the  peppers  need  not 
be  chopped. 

PEPPERS  WITH  EGGS 

Remove  the  stems  and  seeds  from  five  green 
peppers,  parboil  for  five  minutes,  drain,  and  cut 
into  shreds.  Chop  an  onion  ^e  and  fry  it  in 
butter,  add  the  peppers,  and  cook  until  done. 
Butter  individual  dishes  and  put  a  tablespoonful 
of  the  mixture  in  each  one  Break  a  fresh  egg  into 
each  dish,  cover  with  buttered  cnunbs,  and 
bake  brown. 

STEWED  PEPPERS 

Cut  the  peppers  into  shreds,  removing  the 
seeds  and  stems.  Cook  in  boiling  salted  water 
for  thirty  minutes.  Drain,  season  with  salt, 
butter,  and  cream,  and  serve. 

PUR^E  OF  PEPPERS 

Parboil  a  dozen  gre^n  peppers  for  fifteen 
minutes,  drain,  remove  the  skins,  stems,  and 
seeds,  and  chop  fine.  Cook  for  half  an  hour  in 
boiling  salted  water.     Drain,  press  through  a  col- 


3  so  1>ow  to  Cooft  Ve0etable0 

ander,    and  reheat,    seasoning    with  salt  and 
butter,  and  moistening  with  cream. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— I 

Chop  an  onion  fine  and  fry  it  in  butter,  then 
add  half  a  cupful  each  of  finely  minced  mush- 
rooms and  boiled  ham.  Add  half  a  cupful  of 
Brown  Sauce  and  enough  bread-crumbs  to 
make  a  smooth,  thick  paste.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Trim  the  stems  of  six  green 
peppers,  cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each,  and 
take  out  the  seeds.  Soak  in  cold  water  for  an 
hour,  drain,  wipe  dry,  and  fill  with  the  stuffing. 
Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  for  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes.  Serve  on  toast  with  Brown 
Sauce.  Or,  make  the  stuffing  of  equal  parts  of 
minced  cooked  chicken  or  veal,  and  softened 
bread-crumbs,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
onion- juice. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— II 

Make  a  stuffing  of  one  cupful  of  bread-crumbs 
and  half  a  cupful  of  chopped  boiled  ham  or 
tongue  or  sausage,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  grated  onion  and  moistening  with  melted 
butter.  Stuff  green  peppers  according  to  direc- 
tions previously  given  and  put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish.  Pour  over  a  cupful  of  stock,  cover, 
and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  uncover  and 
brown. 


XLhittQ*'Zbtcc  WUl^  to  Cook  peppers    351 

STUFFED  PEPPERS—III 

Cut  off  the  tops  and  remove  the  seeds  of  eight 
green  peppers.  Mix  a  pound  of  lean  raw  beef 
finely  chopped  with  one  egg  well  beaten  and 
salt,  pepper,  and  grated  onion  to  season.  Stuff 
the  peppers  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
sliced  onion  and  enough  water  to  keep  from 
burning.  Cover  and  cook  until  the  peppers  are 
soft.  Strain  out  the  onion  and  thicken  the 
cooking  liquid  with  flour  browned  in  butter. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— IV 

Make  a  stuffing  of  half  a  cupful  each  of  stale 
bread-crumbs  and  grated  boiled  ham,  one  cupful 
of  stewed  tomatoes,  a  minced  onion,  a  tablespoon- 
fill  of  minced  parsley,  and  salt  to  season.  Stuff 
six  green  peppers  according  to  directions  pre- 
viously given  and  bake,  basting  with  stock. 
Serve  with  a  sauce  made  of  the  pan-gravy 
thickened. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— V 

Cut  a  slit  in  the  side  of  each  pepper  and  remove 
the  seeds.  Stuff  with  minced  chicken,  tongue, 
ham,  or  veal,  mixed  with  boiled  rice  and  seasoned 
with  salt,  butter,  and  onion- juice.  Tie  the 
peppers  into  shape  and  bake  for  an  hour,  basting 
with  stock.  Remove  the  strings,  and  thicken  the 
pan-gravy  with  flour  browned  in  butter.  Or, 
make  the  stuffing  of  equal  quantities  of  boiled 


3^^  1>ow  to  Cooft  ttfedetablcd 

rice  and  minced  cooked  chicken,  seasoning  with 
salt  and  butter  and  moistening  with  tomato- 
juice.  Fill  the  shells  and  put  into  a  baking-dish 
with  Tomato  Sauce  poured  around  them. 
Sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
covered  for  an  hour,  then  remove  the  cover 
and  brown. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— VI 

Make  a  stuffing  of  one  cupful  of  chopped  cooked 
chicken,  lamb,  or  veal,  half  a  cupful  each  of 
minced  cooked  ham  and  bread-crumbs,  and  three- 
fourths  cupful  of  cream  or  stock.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  teaspoonftd  of  minced 
parsley,  and  salt  and  onion-juice  to  season.  In- 
stead of  the  meat,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of 
tomatoes  and  a  tablespoonful  of  grated  cheese 
may  be  used.  Prepare  six  peppers  according  to 
directions  previously  given,  parboil  for  five 
minutes,  drain,  stuff,  and  bake  for  half  an  boiir, 
basting  with  melted  butter  and  hot  water.  The 
peppers  may  be  stuffed  with  baked  beans,  season- 
ing with  melted  butter,  salt,  and  Tomato  catsup. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— VII 

Make  a  stuffing  of  one  tablespoonful  each  of 
minced  ham  and  chicken,  three  chopped  mush- 
rooms, one  cupful  of  boiled  rice,  one  tomato 
peeled  and  chopped,  and  enough  melted  butter 
to  make  it  of  the  proper  consistency.  Stuff 
green  peppers  and  bake  in  a  pan  with  a  little 


tCbirti^«>tt;btee  tUlai^  to  Cook  t>cpv^t6    353 

stock,  basting  occasionally  with  oil.  Or,  stuff 
the  peppers  with  creamed  fish  and  sprinkle  with 
cnimbs.  Or,  cut  in  half  lengthwise  and  fill  with 
chopped  cooked  fish  mixed  with  crtimbs  and 
moistened  with  stock  or  Tomato  Sauce.  Or, 
stuff  with  minced  cooked  beef  and  bread-crumbs, 
moistened  with  tomato-juice,  and  serve  with 
Tomato  Sauce. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— VIII 

Make  a  stuffing  of  two  cupfuls  of  chopped 
cooked  chicken,  veal,  or  lamb,  two  cupfuls  of 
boiled  rice,  three  tablespoonf  uls  of  melted  butter, 
one  tablespoonf ul  of  grated  onion,  and  enough 
stock  to  moisten.  Remove  the  stems  and  seeds 
from  six  green  peppers  and  parboil  for  ten  min- 
utes in  salted  water.  Drain  and  stuff.  Put  into 
a  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  and  bake 
for  twenty-five  minutes,  basting  with  stock. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— IX 

Remove  the  stems  and  divide  large  firm  peppers 
in  two  lengthwise.  Scrape  out  the  inside  and 
put  the  shells  in  boiling  water  and  cook  for 
five  minutes,  then  put  into  cold  water.  Mix 
together  one  cupful  each  of  bread-crumbs  and 
chopped  cooked  meat.  Moisten  with  stock  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  each  of 
th5mie  and  savory.  Fill  the  drained  shells  and 
sprinkle  with  crumbs  browned  in  butter.  Put 
into  a  baking-dish  with  a  cupful  of  stock,  dot  with 


354  1)ow  to  Cooft  JDcaeUiblcB 

butter,  and  bake  for  thirty  minutes.     Serve  in 
the  baking-dish. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— X 

Take  six  green  peppers  and  cut  the  stem  ends 
ahnost  arotind,  leaving  a  hinge.  Remove  the 
seeds  and  rinse  in  cold  water.  Chop  £ne  three 
tomatoes  and  add  half  a  cupful  of  chopped 
cooked  beef  or  mutton.  Add  enough  bread- 
crumbs to  make  the  stuffing  thick.  Heat  the 
stuffing  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  little  oUve-oil, 
add  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  season.  Fill  the  peppers,  close  down  the  tops, 
and  put  int*  a  pan  just  large  enough  to  hold 
them  upright.  Pour  in  a  cupful  of  water  or 
stock  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— XI 

Trim  the  stems  from  seven  green  peppers, 
cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each,  and  take  out  the 
seeds.  Chop  fine  a  large  onion,  and  the  pepper 
top.  Add  three  peeled  tomatoes  and  chop 
again.  Add  three  slices  of  stale  bread  rolled 
into  criunbs,  half  a  cupful  of  cold  cooked  lamb 
chopped  fine,  half  a  cupful  of  melted  butter, 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  and  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  StufE  the  peppers,  dot  with 
butter,  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and  bake 
for  half  an  hour. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— XII 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  each  pepper. 


Zbitt^^XLbtcc  Wx^  to  Coofi  peppera    355 

remove  the  seeds,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and 
simmer  for  fifteen  minutes.  Use  eight  peppers. 
Make  a  stuffing  of  two  cupf  uls  of  chopped  cooked 
meat,  one  cupful  of  stale  bread-crumbs,  one 
cupful  of  stock,  and  salt,  pepper,  thjnne,  summer 
savory,  and  sage  to  season.  Mix  thoroughly, 
drain  the  peppers,  and  sttiif .  Cover  with  crumbs, 
dot  with  butter,  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— XIII 

Cut  large  green  peppers  in  half,  remove  the 
seeds,  and  soak  in  cold  water  for  an  hour.  Drain 
and  fill  with  any  kind  of  chopped  cooked  meat, 
"well  seasoned  and  moistened  with  gravy.  Pack 
the  peppers  closely  in  a  baking-dish,  pour  in  stock 
to  moisten,  cover,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 
Serve  in  the  baking-dish. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— XIV 

Chop  together  enough  cooked  meat  to  make 
a  pint,  and  an  onion.  Mix  with  half  a  cupful 
of  bread-crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Stuff  six  green 
peppers  and  continue  according  to  directions 
previously  given.  Or,  stuff  with  seasoned 
crumbs  or  with  chopped  nuts  and  crtunbs. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— XV 

Scald  and  drain  eight  green  peppers  and  re- 
move the  skin  by  rubbing  with  a  coarse  cloth. 
Cut  off  the  stem  and  remove  the  seeds.     Fry  a 


35^  fbov^  to  Cook  \>CQctnbicB 

chopped  onion  in  equal  parts  with  butter  and  oil, 
then  add  a  cupful  of  chopped  mushrooms  and 
salt,  white  and  red  pepper  to  season.  When  the 
mushrooms  are  cooked,  add  half  a  cupful  each 
of  Tomato  and  Espagnole  Sauce.  Bring  to  the 
boil,  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten  and 
enough  bread-crumbs  to  make  a  smooth  thick 
paste.  Season  with  minced  parsley  and  grated 
nutmeg,  fill  the  peppers,  and  bake  for  half  an 
hour,  basting  with  oil.    Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— XVI 

Make  a  stuffing  of  bread-crumbs  soaked  in 
cold  water  and  squeezed  dry  and  a  chopped  onion 
fried  in  butter.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
minced  parsley  and  continue  according  to  di- 
rections previously  given. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— XVII 

Fry  a  chopped  onion  in  butter  and  add  half  a 
can  of  chopped  mushrooms  and  a  cupful  of  bread- 
crumbs. Cook  to  a  smooth  paste,  moistening 
with  Tomato  Sauce,  and  season  with  salt.  Stuff 
green  peppers  according  to  directions  previously 
given.     Bake  and  serve  with  B^hamel  Sauce. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— XVIII 

Season  cold  baked  beans  with  minced  onion 
and  pickle,  stuff  green  peppers,  and  continue 
according  to  directions  already  given.  Serve 
on  squares  of  toasted  brown  bread. 


XLhixt^*XLbvcc  W9&  to  Qook  peppers    357 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— XIX 

Mix  boiled  rice  with  a  well-seasoned  Tomato 
Sauce  and  stuff  green  peppers  with  it  according 
to  directions  previously  given. 

STUFFED  AND  FRIED  GREEN 
PEPPERS 

Put  half  a  dozen  green  peppers  into  boiling 
water  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  drain,  and  re- 
move the  skin  by  rubbing  with  a  wet  cloth.  Cut 
oflE  the  stem  ends,  take  out  the  seeds,  and  stuff  the 
peppers  with  any  kind  of  minced  and  seasoned 
cold  meat  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  stale 
bread  soaked  in  cold  water  and  squeezed  dry. 
Replace  the  stems,  put  the  peppers  into  a  deep 
baking-dish,  and  pour  in  as  much  stock  as  the 
dish  will  hold.  Fry  in  beef  drippings.  Sausage 
meat  or  grated  cheese  may  be  mixed  with  the 
crumbs  for  the  stuffing  and  the  peppers  broiled 
instead  of  fried. 

PEPPERS  STUFFED  WITH  OYSTERS 

Remove  the  stems  and  seeds  from  ten 
green  peppers.  Chop  fine  one  pepper  and  one 
small  onion  and  saut6  in  butter.  Parboil 
forty  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  seasoning 
with  salt  only.  Mix  with  the  fried  pepper  and 
onion  and  add  enough  crumbs  to  make  the  stuffing 
of  the  proper  consistency.  Stuff  the  peppers, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
until  brown.     Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce, 


35^  Dow  to  Coofi  IDegetables 

PEPPERS  STUFFED  WITH  CHICKEN 

Cut  the  peppers  in  half  lengthwise,  remove, 
the  seeds,  and  soak  the  peppers.  Chop  cooked 
chicken  fine  and  add  to  it  one-fourth  as  much 
boiled  rice.  Moisten  with  brown  gravy  or 
stock.  Drain  and  dry  the  peppers,  fill  with  the 
stuffing,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter, 
and  bake  covered  for  half  an  hour,  then  uncover 
and  brown. 

PEPPERS  STUFFED  WITH  VEAL 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Peppers  Stuffed  with  Chicken,  using  veal  instead 
of  chicken  and  substituting  Tomato  Sauce  for 
the  gravy.  The  peppers  may  be  arranged  in  a 
shallow  baking-dish  and  the  space  between 
fiUed  with  gravy  or  sauce. 

PEPPERS  STUFFED  WITH  CORN 

Boil  half  a  dozen  green  peppers  with  a  little 
soda  in  the  water  until  soft.  Drain,  cool, 
remove  stems  and  seeds,  and  fill  with  canned- 
corn,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 
Put  into  a  baking-dish  with  enough  water  to 
keep  from  burning  and  bake.  Serve  with  a 
Cream  Sauce. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS  A  LA  CRlSOLE 

Make  a  stuffing  of  boiled  rice  and  canned  to- 
matoes, ^ea^oning  with  salt  and  grated  onion. 


XLbitVR^XLhicc  WiwSB  to  Cook  peppers    359 

Stuff  half  a  dozen  sweet  peppers,  brown  in  oil, 
then  put  into  a  baking-pan  and  finish  cooking, 
basting  with  hot  water. 

MEXICAN  STUFFED  PEPPERS 

Put  green  peppers  over  the  fire  until  the  skin 
blisters,  then  remove  the  skin,  cut  a  slit  in  one 
side,  and  remove  the  seeds.  Chop  cold  roast 
pork  or  beef  or  veal  very  fine,  season  with  salt 
and  onion-juice,  and  stuff  the  peppers.  Beat  the 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  the  yolks 
and  beat  again.  Roll  the  peppers  in  the  beaten 
egg  and  fry  brown  in  hot  lard.  Drain  and  cook 
slowly  for  half  an  hour  in  stewed  and  strained 
tomatoes  to  cover,  seasoning  with  salt  and  onion"" 
juice. 


THREE  HUNDRED  AND  THIRTY-SIX 
WAYS  TO  COOK  POTATOES 

BOILED  POTATOES— I 

Peel  potatoes  of  uniform  size  and  soak  for 
half  an  hour  in  cold  water.  Cover  with  boiling 
salted  water  and  cook  until  tender  but  not 
broken.  Drain  thoroughly  and  keep  hot,  un- 
covered, until  dry  and  mealy.  Or,  without 
peeling,  let  them  stand  in  cold  salted  water  for 
half  an  hour  before  cooking.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  butter  if  desired.  Minced  chives  or 
parsley  may  be  added. 

BOILED  POTATOES— II 

Select  potatoes  of  equal  size  and  peel  a  strip 
half  an  inch  wide  around  each  one.  Cover 
with  cold  salted  water  and  boil  covered  for  half 
an  hour,  then  drain  and  serve  on  a  napkin. 

QUICK  BOILED  POTATOES 

Peel  the  potatoes,  cut  into  very  thin  slices, 
cover  with  boiling  salted  water,  and  boil  hard  for 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Drain,  chop  slightly, 
se4Son  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  serve, 

360 


336  Waw  to  Cooft  potatoea        361 

BOILED  OLD  POTATOES 

Peel  and  soak  in  cold  water  for  an  hour. 
Cover  with  hot  water  without  salt.  Boil  until 
nearly  done  and  drain.  Fill  the  saucepan  with 
cold  salted  water,  boil  until  done,  and  drain. 
Cover  tightly  and  keep  in  a  warm  place  until  dry 
and  mealy.  Mash,  and  season  with  a  little 
butter  and  cream. 

BROILED  POTATOES 

Peel  and  split  lengthwise  half  a  dozen  boiled 
potatoes.  Broil  and  dip  in  seasoned  melted 
butter.  Raw  potatoes  may  be  used.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Or,  cut  peeled  potatoes, 
either  raw  or  boiled  and  cooled,  into  half-inch 
slices  lengthwise.  Dredge  with  seasoned  flour 
and  broil,  basting  as  needed  with  a  little  butter 
or  oil.  Or,  dip  ia  melted  butter  and  seasoned 
crumbs  and  broil. 

POTATO  BORDER— I 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  enough  potatoes  to  make 
a  quart.  Season  with  salt,  butter,  and  cream 
and  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten. 
Heat  thoroughly,  stirring  constantly,  and  when 
the  paste  is  very  smooth  and  thick,  take  from 
the  fire  and  put  part  of  it  into  a  pastry  bag  with 
a  star  tube.  Shape  in  a  border  on  a  serving-dish 
and  press  the  rest  through  the  bag  in  flutings 
to  ornament  the  top.     Brush  with  beaten  egg, 


363  1)0W  to  COOfl  XOCQCUbitB 

brown  in  the  oven,  and  fill  the  centre  with  cooked 
meat  or  fish. 

POTATO  BORDER— II 

Boil  a  dozen  large  potatoes,  drain,  dry,  and 
rub  through  a  sieve,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper, 
grated  nutmeg,  and  four  tablespoonftils  of  butter. 
Add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  weU  beaten  and  cook 
to  a  thick  paste.  Butter  thickly  a  plain  border 
mould,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  brush  with  beaten 
egg  by  rolling  the  egg  in  it,  and  sprinkle  with 
crumbs.  Fill  with  the  potato  paste,  pressing  in 
firmly.  Bake  for  twenty  minutes,  basting  with 
melted  butter.  Take  out  carefully  on  a  hot 
serving-dish  and  fill  the  centre  with  cooked 
meat  or  fish. 

POTATO  BORDER— III 

Boil  and  mash  a  pound  of  potatoes,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter,  and  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Butter  thickly 
a  border  mould,  press  the  paste  firmly  into  it,  and 
level  off  the  top  with  a  knife.  Bake  for  twenty 
or  thirty  minutes,  turn  out  on  a  hot  platter, 
and  fill  the  centre  with  cooked  meat  or  fish. 
Or,  put  a  buttered  mould  on  a  platter  and 
build  around  it  a  wall  of  hot  mashed  potatoes, 
smoothing  and  creasing  with  a  knife.  Remove 
the  mould,  fill  the  centre  with  cooked 
meat  or  fish,  and  reheat  in  the  oven  before 
serving. 


336  Wiw^  to  Coofi  potatoed        363 

POTATO  BALLS—I 

Rub  through  a  sieve  a  pound  of  boiled  potatoes. 
Add  one-quarter  pound  of  grated  ham,  a  little 
niinced  parsley,  a  small  onion  grated,  a  dash 
of  grated  nutmeg,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs.  Shape  into  balls,  dredge  with  flour,  dip  in 
beaten  egg,  then  into  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep 
fat  or  bake. 

POTATO  BALLS— II 

Season  a  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes  with 
salt,  pepper,  celery  salt,  minced  parsley,  and 
butter.  Add  a  little  onion-juice  if  desired  or  a 
beaten  yolk.  Moisten  with  a  little  milk  or 
cream  and  add  half  of  a  beaten  egg  if  the  yolk 
has  not  been  used.  Shape  into  smooth  round 
balls,  brush  with  the  remainder  of  the  egg,  and 
bake  on  a  buttered  tin  imtil  brown.  Or,  dip 
in  egg  and  cnmibs  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  The 
celery  salt  may  be  omitted. 

POTATO  BALLS— III 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  Ave  potatoes,  and  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  if  desired.  Mix  with  a 
tablespoonful  or  less  of  minced  parsley,  the  yolk 
of  one  egg  well  beaten,  and  salt,  cayenne,  and 
grated  nutmeg  or  celery  salt  to  season.  Press 
through  a  sieve  if  not  smooth,  shape  into  balls,  dip 
in  egg  and  crumbs  or  dredge  with  flour,  and  fry 
jn  deep  fat.     Or,  U§e  four  potatoes,  a  tablespoon* 


364  f>OW  to  OOOft  VCQCUiblCB 

ful  each  of  butter  and  minced  parsley,  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  and  the  white  of  one.  Dip  in  the 
beaten  white,  then  in  crumbs,  and  fry. 

POTATO  BALLS— IV 

Cut  a  pint  of  balls  from  raw  potatoes,  using  a 
French  vegetable  cutter.  Cook  in  boiling  salted 
water  until  soft,  drain,  and  reheat  in  White 
or  Cream  Sauce.  Sprinkle  with  minced  parsley 
and  serve.  Or,  put  into  a  vegetable-dish  and 
season  with  salt,  white  pepper,  melted  butter, 
and,  if  desired,  sprinkle  thickly  with  the  sifted 
yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Or,  pour  over  a  Mattre 
d'Hdtel  or  Hollandaise  Sauce. 

POTATO  BALLS— V 

Season  mashed  potatoes  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
grated  onion,  shape  into  balls  or  flat  cakes, 
dredge  with  flour,  and  place  around  the  meat 
twenty  minutes  before  it  is  taken  from  the  oven. 
Drain  carefully  before  serving.  Or,  dip  in  egg 
and  crumbs  or  commeal  or  flour,  and  saut^  in 
hot  drippings. 

GERMAN  POTATO  BALLS— I 

Peel  and  grate  a  quart  of  potatoes  and  drain 
off  the  liquid.  Then  grate  four  boiled  potatoes 
and  mix  with  the  pulp,  seasoning  with  salt  and 
grated  nutmeg.  Cut  stale  bread  into  dice  and 
fry  brown  in  butter.  Shape  the  potato  mixture 
into  balls,  putting  two  pieces  of  bread  into  the 


336  tniasd  to  Cooh  f^otatoe^       36$ 

centre  of  each  ball.  Drop  carefully  in  boiling 
salted  water  and  cook  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 
Drain  and  serve. 

GERMAN-POTATO  BALLS— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for  Grer- 
man  Potato  Balls — I,  using  fotir  boiled  potatoes 
mashed  and  two  eggs  and  two  cupfuls  of  flour 
for  the  potato  mixture.  Pour  over  a  Cream  Sauce 
to  which  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  have  been 
added. 

GERMAN  POTATO  BALLS— III 

Cut  enough  stale  bread  dice  to  make  a  cupful, 
fry  in  butter,  and  crush.  Mix  with  three  cupfuls 
of  mashed  potatoes,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  a 
tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley  fried  in  butter, 
and  pepper,  salt,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  season. 
Shape  into  small  balls  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes 
in  salted  water.  Serve  with  fried  crumbs  or 
Tonaato  Sauce.  Chopped  and  well-seasoned 
meat  may  be  used  in  the  centre  of  the  dumplings. 
If  the  mixttire  should  be  too  moist  to  shape  easily, 
add  flour  or  bread-crtunbs  to  make  it  of  the 
proper  consistency. 

BAKED  POTATOES— I 

Scrub  potatoes  of  equal  size,  wipe  dry,  and  bake 
for  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven.  Break  the  skins  that 
the  steam  may  escape.  Peel  before  baking  if 
desired. 


366  f)ow  to  Cook  Vegeta&ted 

BAKED  POTATOES— II 

Peel  six  or  eight  potatoes,  parboil,  drain,  and 
cool.  Pack  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dot  with  butter,  sprinkle 
with  crumbs,  and  moisten  with  a  few  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cream.  Bake  until  brown  and  serve  in  the 
same  dish. 

BAKED  HASHED  POTATOES 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Stewed  Potatoes — I,  cooking  a  chopped  onion 
and  a  stalk  of  celery  with  the  potatoes.  Turn 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with 
crumbs,  and  bake  brown. 

BAKED  MASHED   POTATOES 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  six  potatoes,  seasoning 
with  butter  and  cream,  add  one  tablespoonful 
each  of  minced  parsley  and  grated  onion  and 
two  tablespoonf  uls  of  minced  ham.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
cover  with  crimibs,  dot  with  butter,  and  brown 
in  the  oven. 

BAKED  MASHED  POTATOES— II 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  hot  mashed 
potatoes,  half  a  cupful  of  cream  or  milk,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  the  yolk  of  one  egg 
and  the  whites  of  four,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
season.     Beat  until  very  light,  folding  in  the 


336  WUiW  to  Cooft  potatoes        367 

stiffly  beaten  whites  last.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  brush  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  egg, 
and  brown  quickly.  Or,  arrange  mashed  pota- 
toes in  layers  in  a  buttered  baking-dish,  alternat- 
ing with  lumps  of  butter  and  grated  Parmesan 
cheese.  Have  cheese  and  butter  on  top.  Brown 
in  the  oven  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. 

BAKED  POTATO  DICE 

Peel  and  cut  into  dice  six  large  potatoes.  Soak 
for  half  an  hour  in  cold  water  and  dip  in  melted 
butter,  coating  each  piece.  Put  into  the  oven 
with  more  butter,  and  salt,  pepper,  grated  onion, 
and  lemon-juice  to  season.  Cover  and  bake 
until  tender,  then  uncover  and  brown.  The 
potatoes  may  be  cut  into  strips  and  the  onion 
and  lemon-juice  omitted. 

BAKED  POTATOES  WITH  CHEESE— I 

Cut  six  baked  potatoes  in  halves  lengthwise, 
scoop  out  the  pulp,  and  mash  with  two  tablespoon- 
f uls  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  three-fourths 
cupful  of  milk.  FiU  the  shells,  sprinkle  thickly 
with  grated  American  cheese,  and  bake  until  the 
cheese  is  melted. 

BAKED  POTATOES  WITH  CHEESE— II 

Slice  four  large  boiled  potatoes  and  beat 
four  eggs  with  two  cupfuls  of  cream  or  milk. 
Put  a  layer  of  potatoes  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish  and  cover  with  thin  slices  of  cheese,  either 


36S  f)ow  to  Coofe  Vegetabted 

American  or  Swiss,  or  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.  Season  with  salt  and  paprika 
and  pour  over  a  little  of  the  egg  and  milk  mixture. 
Repeat  until  the  dish  is  full  and  bake  for  half 
an  hour.  A  pint  of  thin  White  or  Cream  Sauce 
may  be  used  for  liquid,  with  two  beaten  eggs. 
Spread  with  buttered  crumbs  if  desired. 

BAKED  POTATOES  AND  EGGS 

Bake  half  a  dozen  potatoes,  cut  off  the  tops, 
and  remove  half  the  pulp.  Drop  an  egg  into 
each  one,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  cayenne,  and 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  grated  cheese  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Bake  until  the  cheese  is 
melted. 

SWEDISH  BAKED  POTATOES 

Bake  large  potatoes,  cut  a  slice  from  the  top 
of  each,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp.  Mix  the  pulp 
with  minced  cooked  fish,  well-seasoned  with  but- 
ter and  cream.  Put  on  the  caps  and  reheat  in 
the  oven. 

SAVORY  BAKED  POTATOES 

Peel  equal-sized   potatoes  and  pack  into   a  I 

buttered    baking    dish,    sprinkle    with    minced  | 

onion,  powdered  sage,  salt  and  pepper,  and  dots  { 
of  butter.     Pour  over  half  a  cupful  of  milk  or 
stock  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  forty 

minutes,  basting  occasionally.  I 


336  TTOafid  to  Oooft  |tetatoe6        369 

BAKED  POTATO  CREAM 

Peel  and  cut  into  dice  six  raw  potatoes,  put 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  season,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
and  a  cupful  of  cream.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs 
and  grated  cheese  and  bake  for  forty-five  min- 
utes. If  cold  boiled  potatoes  are  used  they  will 
cook  in  half  the  time. 

BROWNED  POTATOES— I 

Peel  and  parboil  potatoes  of  equal  size.  Drain 
and  put  into  a  baking-dish  or  into  the  pan  with 
a  roast  and  bake  until  brown,  basting  with 
butter  or  drippings.  They  may  be  dredged 
with  flour  before  baking. 

BROWNED  POTATOES— II 

Peel  and  quarter  six  large  potatoes  and  put 
into  a  shallow  buttered  baking-pan.  Bake 
for  forty  minutes,  basting  with  stock  and  melted 
butter. 

BROWNED  POTATOES— III 

Mash  boiled  potatoes  smoothly  with  a  boiled 
onion  chopped  fine,  salt  and  pepper  to  season, 
and  milk  to  moisten.  Shape  into  balls  and 
dredge  with  flotu*.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy 
around  the  roast  and  put  the  balls  in,  half  an 
hour  before  the  roast  is  taken  up.  Baste  occa- 
sionally with  the  drippings. 

84 


370  1)ow  to  Coofc  tt)e0etable0 

POTATO  CONES— I 

Mash  six  boiled  potatoes,  seasoning  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  onion-juice.  Mix  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  two  of  milk.  Shape 
into  cones  and  brown  for  ten  minutes  in  the 
oven. 

POTATO  CONES— II 

Beat  very  light  a  pint  of  mashed  potatoes, 
a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  cream,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Stir  in  a  raw  egg,  cool, 
shape  into  cones,  and  bake  brown,  basting  with 
melted  butter.  Take  up  with  a  pancake 
turner. 

CREAMED  POTATOES— I 

Cover  the  potatoes  with  cold  salted  water, 
bring  •  gradually  to  the  boil,  and  cook  slowly. 
Cool  in  the  refrigerator.  When  ready  to  serve, 
peel  and  chop  very  fine  and  reheat  in  hot  butter, 
seasoning  with  salt,  black  pepper,  and  cream. 
Cover  and  let  stand  for  ten  minutes  before 
serving. 

CREAMED  POTATOES— II 

Thicken  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  with  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  rubbed  smooth 
with  a  little  cold  milk.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and  pepper. 
Pour  over  small  boiled  potatoes  and  serve. 


33d  Wia,^  to  Cooft  l^otatocd        371 

CREAMED  POTATOES— III 

Boil  new  potatoes  or  old  ones  peeled,  and  cut 
into  slices,  dice,  or  balls.  Or,  cold  boiled  potatoes 
cut  fine.  Reheat  in  well  seasoned  Cream  Sauce, 
adding  a  little  minced  parsley  or  chives  or  grated 
nutmeg  if  desired.  They  may  be  put  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish  and  baked,  sprinkling 
with  crvimbs  if  desired.  Sometimes  a  beaten 
egg  is  used  instead  of  the  crumbs.  A  teaspoonf  ul 
of  arrow  root  may  be  used  for  thickening  instead 
of  flour. 

CREAMED  POTATOES  A  LA  BRISTOL 

Boil  the  potatoes  in  salted  water,  drain,  cool, 
peel,  and  slice.  Cover  with  boiling  cream  and 
simmer  until  the  cream  begins  to  thicken,  then 
season  with  pepper  and  mint  and  add  a  Itunp 
of  butter  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon-juice.  Serve 
immediately. 

SWEDISH  CREAMED  POTATOES 

Peel,  boil,  drain,  cool,  and  chop  enough  potatoes 
to  make  two  quarts.  Mix  with  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs  well  beaten  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
Shape  into  balls  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes  in 
one  cupful  each  of  milk  and  cream  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

CREAMED  POTATO  HASH 

Peel  and  boil  a  dozen  medium-sized  potatoes. 


373  f)ow  to  Cook  It9e0etable6 

mash  half  of  them,  and  cut  the  rest  into  dice. 
Reheat  in  Cream  Sauce,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and,  if 
desired,  minced  chives  and  parsley. 

POTATO  CREAM 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  six  potatoes,  seasoning 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  heap  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  and  bake  until  well  puffed  and 
brown. 

CURRIED  POTATOES 

Peel  and  slice  two  onions  and  fry  brown  in 
butter  or  drippings.  Add  cold  boiled  potatoes 
sliced,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  curry 
powder.  Add  enough  stock  to  moisten,  season 
with  lemon- juice,  heat  thoroughly,  and  serve. 

POTATO  CROUSTADE 

Mash  a  pound  of  boiled  potatoes,  add  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  heat  until  it  is  dry.  Shape 
with  floured  hands  into  a  case  or  shell,  brush 
with  the  beaten  yolk  of  egg^  and  bake  until  light 
brown.  Fill  the  centre  with  cooked  meat  or 
flsh  and  serve. 

POTATO  CROUSTADES  X  LA  REGENT 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Potato  Croquettes,  breading  twice.  Fry  in 
fat  to  cover,  drain,  cut  a  slice  from  the  upper  end. 


336  iniaigd  to  Cooft  potatoes       373 

and  scoop  out  a  teaspoonful  or  more  of  the  pulp. 
Fill  with  creamed  lobster,  oysters,  or  mushrooms, 
replace  the  covers  carefully,  sticking  on  with  the 
unbeaten  white  of  egg.     Serve  on  a  napkin. 

CASSEROLE  OF  POTATOES— I 

Mash  a  pound  of  potatoes,  seasoning  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Add  a  tablespoonf ul  of  butter, 
and  enough  cream  or  milk  to  moisten.  Put 
into  a  baking-dish  and  shape,  leaving  the  centre 
hollow.  Brown  in  the  oven,  fill  the  centre  with 
cooked  meat  or  fish,  and  serve. 

CASSEROLE  OF  POTATOES— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Casserole  of  Potatoes — I,  adding  the  beaten  yolks 
of  four  eggs.  Cook  to  a  stiff  paste  and  shape  in 
a  border  mould.  Brush  with  the  slightly  beaten 
white  of  an  egg  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

CASSEROLE  OF  POTATOES— III 

Peel,  boil,  drain,  and  mash  eight  large  potatoes. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  beat  into  the 
potato  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  half  a 
cupful  of  milk.  Pack  the  potato  into  a  well 
buttered  mould,  turn  out  on  a  platter,  brush 
with  beaten  egg,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

CASSEROLE  OF  POTATOES— IV 

Peel,  boil,  mash,  and  season  eight  or  ten  pota- 
toes and  add  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.     Fill 


374  1>ow  to  Coofi  }0cgcUiblce 

a  buttered  mould  with  the  mixture,  pressing 
hard,  and  cool.  Remove  a  cupful  or  more  of  the 
pulp  from  the  centre  and  fill  with  minced  cooked 
meat  highly  seasoned  and  mixed  with  crumbs 
soaked  in  stock.  The  filling  must  be  stiJS 
enough  to  hold  its  shape.  Pit  a  piece  of  bread 
over  the  opening,  turn  out  on  a  serving-dish, 
brush  with  beaten  egg,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 
The  filling  must  be  heated  before  it  is  put  into 
the  potato. 

POTATO  CAKE 

Mash  boiled  potatoes,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  moisten  with  a 
very  little  milk.  Butter  a  frying-pan,  and  shape 
the  paste  into  a  flat  cake  to  fit  it.  Cover  and 
cook  slowly  until  done,  then  dot  the  top  with 
butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  The  milk 
may  be  omitted  and  the  potato  shaped  like  an 
omelet.     Fry  brown,  turning  once. 

POTATO  CAKES— I 

Melt  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
in  half  a  cupful  of  milk  and  stir  into  it  a  pint  of 
hot  mashed  potatoes,  seasoning  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  two  eggs  well-beaten  and  enough 
sifted  crumbs  to  make  a  smooth  dough.  Roll 
out,  cut  into  biscuits,  and  bake  brown. 

POTATO  CAKES— II 

Peel,  boil,  drain,  and  mash  six  potatoes.    Add 


336  WUi'Sfi  to  Coofi  potatoes       375 

a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
season,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  enough  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  paste.  Shape  into  small  flat 
cakes  and  saut6  in  hot  lard  or  drippings.  Or, 
omit  the  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  fry  in  hot 
fat. 

POTATO  CAKES— III 

Mix  together  three  boiled  and  mashed  potatoes, 
two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  grated 
cheese,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  five  eggs 
well  beaten.     Fry  by  spoonfuls  in  fat  to  cover. 

POTATO  CAKES— IV 

One  quart  of  grated  raw  potatoes,  measured 
after  grating,  four  eggs  well  beaten,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoon- 
f ul  of  baking-powder.  Saut^  in  small  flat  cakes» 
turning  once.  Do  not  drain  the  water  &om  the 
grated  potatoes. 

POTATO  CAKES— V 

Add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  a  teaspoonf ul 
of  melted  butter  to  a  pint  of  thick  mashed 
potatoes.  Cook  for  three  minutes  and  cool. 
Shape  into  balls,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  into 
commeal,  and  fry  brown  in  fat  to  cover. 

POTATO  CAKES— VI 

Mould  into  balls  hot  and  well  seasoned  mashed 
potatoes,  and  put  into  a  shallow  buttered  baking- 


37^  1>ow  to  CooR  1t)e0etable0 

pan.  Brush  with  beaten  egg  and  brown  in  the 
oven.  Take  up  with  a  pancake  turner.  They 
may  be  moulded  in  patty-pans  or  timbale  moulds 
if  the  mould  is  first  wet  with  cold  water,  or  cooked 
in  a  buttered  baking-dish  without  moulding. 

GERMAN  POTATO  CAKES 

Orate  six  raw  peeled  potatoes,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  enough  flour  to  make  the  mixture 
the  consistency  of  pancake  batter.  Season  to 
taste  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  fry  in  butter 
on  a  griddle. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES— I 

Boil  and  mash  enough  potatoes  to  make  a 
pint.  Weigh  them,  then  add  a  fourth  their  weight 
of  butter,  two  or  three  eggs  well  beaten,  and 
salt,  pepper,  and  grated  onion  to  season.  Cool, 
shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  let  stand  imtil  dry.  Dip  in  egg  and  crtunbs 
once  more  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  The  onion  may 
be  omitted  and  a  little  powdered  sugar  and 
grated  lemon-peel  used  instead. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES— II 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  hot  mashed 
potatoes,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  one-third 
cupful  of  grated  cheese,  and  salt,  cayenne,  and 
grated  nutmeg  to  season.  Add  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  beaten  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 


336  WidcSB  to  Cooft  potatoes        377 

mix  thoroughly,  and  shape  into  croquettes.  Dip 
in  flour,  then  in  beaten  egg^  then  in  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  deep  fat. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES— III 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  mashed  potatoes, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter 
and  minced  parsley,  and  salt,  cayenne,  and  grated 
nutmeg  or  onion-juice  to  season.  Cook  to  a 
smooth  paste,  take  from  the  fire,  cool,  shape 
into  balls  or  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crtimbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat.  The  nutmeg  may  be 
omitted  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sweet  marjoram 
used  instead. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES— IV 

Peel  and  slice  enough  potatoes  to  make  two 
quarts.  Drain,  dry,  and  mash,  seasoning  with 
salt,  pepper,  und  grated  nutmeg,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  melted.  Add  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs  well  beaten  and  cook  to  a  stiff 
paste.  Cool,  shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in 
beaten  egg^  then  in  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  in  fat 
to  cover. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES— V 

Mix  together  a  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  one 
egg  well  beaten,  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter 
and  milk,  with  salt,  pepper,  grated  lemon-peel, 
and  nutmeg  to  season.     Cook  to  a  stiff  paste,  cool. 


378  Dow  to  QoQik  Ve0etable0 

shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  flour,  and  fry  in  deep 
fat.  Or,  put  a  teaspoonf ul  of  minced  and  seasoned 
meat  or  fish  into  the  centre  of  each  croquette 
while  shaping.  Serve  with  Cream  or  White 
Sauce. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES— VI 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  hot  mashed 
potatoes,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese,  or  a  teaspoonful 
of  minced  parsley.  Season  with  salt,  paprika, 
and  lemon- juice  and  cool.  Add  the  yolk  of  one 
egg  beaten  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream 
and  cool  on  ice.  Shape  into  croquettes,  dip 
in  crumbs,  then  in  egg  and  cnunbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat.  A  teaspoonful  of  green  peas  or  creamed 
chicken  or  cheese  may  be  put  in  the  centre  of 
each  croquette  if  desired. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES— VII 

Mix  two  cupfuls  of  mashed  potatoes  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
season.  Mix  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs  slightly 
beaten,  shape  into  balls,  dip  into  the  beaten 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  into  cnunbs,  and  fry  in 
fat  to  cover. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES— VIII 

Cook  to  a  stiS  paste  in  a  double  boiler  two 
cupfuls  of  mashed  potatoes,  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  one-fourth 


336  WU1S0  to  Coofi  potatoe0       379 

cupful  of  milk.  Cool,  shape  into  croquettes, 
dip  in  crumbs,  and  keep  on  ice  until  ready 
to  fry  in  deep  fat. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES— IX 

Press  through  a  sieve  enough  boiled  potatoes 
to  make  one  and  one-half  cupfuls.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne, 
celery  salt,  and  onion-juice  to  season.  Add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  minced  parsley  or  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  grated  cheese  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  Cool,  shape 
into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  deep  fat.  Or,  add  another  egg  and  cook  to  a 
smooth  paste  before  cooling.  Creamed  fish, 
chicken,  or  peas  may  be  put  into  the  centre  of 
each  croquette. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES— X 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  four  large  potatoes.  Bring 
to  the  boil  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Heat  the  potato  in  it  imtil  thoroughly  mixed. 
Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES— XI 

Peel  six  large  baked  potatoes  and  mash  the  pulp 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  with  salt,  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg  to 
season.     Cook  to  a  stiff  paste,  stirring  constantly. 


d8o  Dow  to  Cook  vegetables 

and  cool.     Shape  into  balls,  dip  in  beaten  egg 
and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

STUFFED  POTATO  CROQUETTES— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Potato  Croquettes — I .  Chop  cooked  chicken  with 
a  little  pickled  tongue  and  a  few  cooked  mush- 
rooms and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Reheat 
in  butter,  and  thicken  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
beaten  with  a  pinch  of  sugar.  Season  with  a 
few  drops  of  lemon-juice  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
Sherry.  Mould  the  potato  croquettes  around 
the  mixture,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat. 

STUFFED   POTATO  CROQUETTES— II 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  mashed  potatoes, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  minced 
parsley,  with  salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  and 
onion- juice  to  season.  Shape  into  balls,  putting 
a  teaspoonful  of  cooked  green  peas  in  the  centre 
of  each.  Dip  in  egg  and  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep 
fat.  Or,  omit  the  parsley,  nutmeg,  and  onion- 
juice,  shape  into  balls,  dip  in  crumbs,  then  in 
beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  and  fry  brown 
in  deep  fat. 

ITALIAN  POTATO  CROQUETTES 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  mashed  potatoes, 
one  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley,  the  yolks 


336  Was0  to  Coofi  potatoes       381 

of  three  eggs,  and  half  a  cupful  of  minced  bologna 
sausage.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  grated 
nutmeg,  and  onion-juice.  Heat  thoroughly, 
stirring  constantly,  then  cool.  Shape  into  small 
balls,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES  A   LA  Bl^CHAMEL 

Bake  a  dozen  large  potatoes,  scoop  out  the  pulp 
and  pound  to  a  paste  with  two  tablespoonf  uls  of 
butter,  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg 
to  season,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  one  whole 
^gg  beaten  with  a  cupful  of  cream.  Put  into  a 
saucepan,  cook  for  three  minutes,  cool,  shape 
into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  deep  fat. 

POTATO  AND  RICE  CROQUETTES 

Mix  together  one  cupful  each  of  mashed 
potatoes  and  boiled  rice,  one  egg  beaten  with  half 
a  cupful  of  milk,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  celery  salt 
to  season.  Shape  into  croquettes,  dredge  with 
flour,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

POTATO  DUMPLINGS— I 

Boil,  peel,  and  mash  fourteen  medium-sized 
potatoes.  Add  three-fourths  cupful  of  cracker- 
crtunbsand  salt,  pepper,  onion-juice,  and  minced 
parsley  to  season.  Add  four  eggs  beaten 
separately,  and  three-fourths  cupful  of  flour  sifted 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder.  Shape 
into  balls,  roll  in  flour  and  boil  for  ten  minutes 


3^2  1)ow  to  (took  \t)edetable0 

in  salted  water  to  cover.     Sprinkle  with  fried 
crtunbs  when  serving. 

POTATO  DUMPLINGS— II 

Peel,  parboil,  and  grate  medium-sized  pota- 
toes. Add  one-third  the  quantity  of  stale  bread 
crumbs  and  a  few  small  squares  of  stale  bread 
fried  in  butter,  then  crushed.  To  each  pint  of 
the  mixture,  add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  with  salt  and 
grated  nutmeg  to  season.  Mix  thoroughly, 
shape  into  dumplings,  dredge  with  flour,  and 
boil  for  fifteen  minutes  in  salted  water. 

POTATO  DUMPLINGS— III 

Grate  a  dozen  large  potatoes  and  drain 
off  the  juice.  Add  to  the  sediment  one-third 
as  much  boiled  mashed  potato.  Season  with 
salt  and  add  one  egg  well  beaten.  Stir  to  a 
smooth  creamy  paste  and  shape  into  dumplings 
with  well-floured  hands.  Dredge  with  flour, 
drop  into  boiling  water,  and  cook  for  ten  or 
twelve  minutes.   Skim  out  and  serve  immediately. 

POTATO  DUMPLINGS— IV 

Peel  and  grate  six  potatoes  and  drain  off  the 
liquid.  Let  the  liquid  settle,  pour  off  the  water, 
and  add  the  sediment  to  the  potatoes.  Add  two 
cupfuls  of  mashed  potatoes,  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Shape  into 
small    balls,    drop    into    boiling    salted    water. 


336  WUitB  to  Cooft  potatoes       3S3 

cover,  and  cook  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  As 
soon  as  they  rise  to  the  top  they  are  done. 
Spread  minced  fried  onions  upon  the  dumplings 
when  serving. 

DUCHESS  POTATOES— I 

Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  add  to  it  enough 
well  seasoned  hot  mashed  potatoes  to  make 
a  stiff  mixture.  Shape  into  balls,  put  into  a 
shallow  buttered  baking-pan,  brush  with  the 
well  beaten  white  of  the  egg,  and  brown  in 
the  oven. 

DUCHESS  POTATOES— II 

Mix  together  a  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  enough  hot  milk 
or  cream  to  let  the  mixture  pass  easily  through 
a  pastry  bag  and  tube.  Shape  as  desired,  brush 
with  beaten  egg  diluted  with  a  little  milk 
or  water,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Take  up 
with  a  pancake  turner.  The  yolks  of  two  of  the 
eggs  and  the  hot  nailk  or  cream  may  be  omitted 
from  the  mixture  and  pepper  and  onion- juice 
or  minced  parsley  and  sweet  herbs  may  be  added. 
Shape  into  balls  with  the  hand,  dip  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

DUCHESS  POTATOES— III 

Peel  and  split  seven  or  eight  potatoes,  boil 
in  salted  water  to  cover,  drain,  mash,  and  heat 


384  IbQiw  to  Cooft  Degetablcd 

until  perfectly  dry.  Rub  through  a  sieve  and 
cook  to  a  smooth  paste  with  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  salt, 
pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  season.  Cool, 
shape  into  croquettes  or  balls,  dip  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat,  or  dip  in  flour,  egg, 
and  crumbs.  Or  bake  on  a  buttered  tin  sheet, 
brushing  with  beaten  egg. 

DUCHESS  POTATO  BALLS 

Beat  two  cupfuls  of  hot  mashed  potatoes  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  half  a  cupful  of 
boiling  milk.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
shape  into  balls,  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
brush  with  milk,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Or, 
press  through  a  pastry  tube  and  brown  on  a 
buttered  tin  sheet. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES— I 

Peel  and  chop  ten  large  potatoes  or  slice 
thin.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  in  layers, 
seasoning  each  layer  with  salt,  pepper,  and  bits 
of  butter.  When  the  dish  is  three-fourths 
full,  fill  with  cream  or  milk  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  Bread-crumbs  may  be  put  in 
layers  among  the  potatoes,  if  desired,  and 
buttered  crumbs  spread  on  top. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES— II 

Peel  and  sUce  raw  potatoes  thin,  or  cut  into 
dice.     Butter  a  baking-dish,  put  in  a  layer  of 


336  Vnai30  to  CooR  Potatoed        sS$ 

potatoes,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
dots  of  butter.  A  little  grated  onion  and  minced 
parsley  may  be  added  to  the  seasoning.  Dredge 
with  flour  and  repeat,  having  flour  and  butter 
on  top.  Fill  the  baking-dish  with  hot  milk, 
bake  for  forty-five  minutes,  and  serve  in  the 
same  dish.  The  flour  may  be  omitted.  Cold 
boiled  potatoes  may  be  cooked  in  the  same 
way. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES— III 

Peel  and  slice  eight  potatoes.  Put  a  layer 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  cover  with  a  thin 
layer  of  sliced  onion,  sprinkle  with  grated 
cheese,  dredge  with  seasoned  flour,  and  dot  with 
butter.  Repeat  until  the  dish  is  nearly  full, 
cover  with  milk,  and  bake  for  an  hour  and  a 
half  in  a  moderate  oven. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES— IV 

Peel  six  large  potatoes,  throw  into  cold  water, 
drain  and  chop  flne.  Put  a  layer  into  a  buttered 
baking*dish,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  repeat  until 
the  dish  is  full.  Pour  over  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  clarified  butter.  Cover  and  bake  in  a  pan 
of  hot  water  for  forty-five  minutes,  stirring 
once  and  removing  the  cover  to  brown.  Sprinkle 
with  minced  parsley  and  onion- juice  and  serve. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES— V 

Boil    potatoes    and    mash,    seasoning    with 

as 


386  l)ow  to  Cook  lX>€ectdbiC6 

salt,  pepper,  and  melted  butter,  and  adding 
enough  milk  to  make  very  moist.  Add  a  little 
grated  cheese  if  desired.  Fill  buttered  shells 
or  patty-pans  with  the  mixture,  scoi^  the  top 
in  squares,  brush  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese  or  crumbs,  and  brown  in 
the  oven. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES  AND  CHEESE 

Parboil  enough  potatoes  to  make  a  quart, 
and  slice.  Put  a  layer  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  cheese,  dot 
with  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
repeat  until  the  dish  is  fuU,  having  cheese  and 
butter  on  top.  Pour  over  a  cupful  of  milk, 
sprinkle  with  minced  parsley  and  cracker-crumbs 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  potatoes 
are  done. 

FAVORITE  POTATOES 

Boil  unpeeled  potatoes  in  salted  water  until 
nearly  done.  Drain,  peel,  and  cut  into  dice. 
Reheat  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
enough  milk  to  moisten.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  finish  cooking  in  the  oven.^  Cold 
potatoes,  either  boiled  or  baked,  may  be  used 
instead. 

POTATO  FLAKES 

Butter  a  baking-dish  and  press  hot  boiled 
potatoes  into  it  through  a  colander  or  |x>tato 


336  Vllai20  to  dooft  Potatoe0       387 

ricer,  having  first  sprinkled  the  potatoes  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Put  into  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes  and  serve.  Or,  sprinkle  with  crumbs, 
pour  over  a  little  melted  butter,  and  brown  in 
the  oven. 

POTATO  FRITTERS— I 

Beat  thoroughly  one  cupful  of  hot  mashed 
potato,  one  tablespoonful  of  hot  milk,  one  egg, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Mix  thoroughly, 
cool,  cut  in  squares,  dip  in  flour  or  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

POTATO  FRITTERS— II 

Mix  together  a  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
of  minced  parsley,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Drop  by  spoonfuls 
Into  deep  fat,  wetting  the  spoon  each  time  in 
boiling  water. 

POTATO  FRITTERS— III 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  hot  mashed 
potatoes,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  cream 
and  Sherry,  and  salt,  cayenne,  and  grated  nutmeg 
to  season.  Add  three  whole  eggs  and  the  yolks 
of  two  well  beaten  and  beat  until  cold.  Work 
in  half  a  cupful  of  flour  and  drop  by  teaspoon- 
fuls into  deep  fat.  Fry  imtil  brown  and  drain 
on  brown  paper. 


3S8  l)ow»  to  (tooli  Vegetables 

POTATO  FRITTERS— IV 

Boil,  drain,  peel,  and  mash  six  large  potatoes. 
Add  four  eggs  well  beaten,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream  or  milk,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  minced 
parsley  or  grated  onion  to  season.  Drop  by 
teaspoonfuls  into  deep  fat  and  fry  brown. 

POTATO  FRITTERS— V 

Beat  together  four  eggs  and  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  cream.  Add  enough  mashed  potatoes 
to  make  a  paste  that  will  drop  from  a  spoon, 
and  season  with  salt,  grated  nutmeg,  minced 
chives,  and  parsley.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into 
deep  fat,  and  fry  brown.  Or,  beat  together 
one  eggf  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  brandy,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
melted  butter.  Add  enough  mashed  baked 
potato  to  make  a  sti£E  paste,  and  season  with 
salt  and  sugar.  Shape  into  balls,  roll  in  flour, 
and  fry  brown. 

POTATO  FRITTERS— VI 

Chop  four  boiled  potatoes  and  mix  with  a 
batter  made  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cupful 
of  milk,  and  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  flour  sifted 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder.  Season 
with  salt,  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  deep  fat. 

POTATO  FRITTERS— VII 
Bake   a   dozen   large   potatoes,    remove  the 


336  Wiw^  to  Cooft  potatoes        389 

pulp,  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Put  into  a 
saucepan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter 
and  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  the 
yolks  of  six  eggs  well  beaten.  Cook  to  a  smooth 
thick  paste,  then  spread  in  a  fiat  buttered  tin 
pan,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  cool.  Cut 
into  squares  or  oblongs,  dip  in  fritter  batter, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

POTATO  FRITTERS— VIII 

Peel  and  quarter  six  potatoes  and  fry  until 
neariy  done  in  beef  fat.  Make  a  batter  of  one 
cupful  of  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  two  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  baking-powder.  Dip  the  pieces 
of  potatoes  in  the  batter  and  fry  brown. 

GERMAN  POTATO  FRITTERS 

Boil,  drain,  and  mash  four  large  potatoes. 
Add  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  eight  blanched  almonds  finely  chopped, 
and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  shape  into  small  flat  cakes. 
Mix  four  tablespoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs  with 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  roll  the  cakes  in  the 
mixture,  and  saut^  in  oil  or  butter. 

FRIED  POTATOES— I 

Peel  and  parboil  small  potatoes,  soaking  in 
cold  water  for  an  hour  before  cooking.  Drain 
and  dry,  drop  into  deep  fat,  and  fry  brown. 
Cold  boiled  potatoes  may  be  used. 


390  Dow  to  Cooft  wcaeUblCB 

FRIED  POTATOES— II 

Peel  raw  potatoes  and  slice  very  thin  cross- 
wise. Soak  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hotir,  then 
drain  and  dry  on  a  cloth.  Fry  in  butter  to 
cover,  turning  once.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  serve.  Sweet  potatoes  may  be 
fried  in  the  same  way. 

FRIED  POTATOES— III 

Cut  peeled  raw  potatoes  into  thin  slices  and 
then  into  fancy  shapes  with  French  vegetable 
cutters.  Soak  for  an  hour  in  cold  salted  water, 
drain,  dry  on  a  cloth,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve. 

FRIED  POTATOES— IV 

Slice  partially  cooked  potatoes,  dip  in  flour, 
then  in  beaten  egg^  then  in  sifted  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  fat  to  cover. 

FRIED  POTATOES— V 

'  Peel  and  slice  x>otatoes  into  quarter-inch 
slices.  Cook  slowly  until  tender  in  fat  to  cover, 
and  drain.  Heat  the  fat  to  the  boiling  point 
and  plunge  the  potatoes  into  it  for  a  few  minutes 
to  puff  them  out.  Drain,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
serve. 

FRIED  POTATOES— VI 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Saratoga   Chips   and   saut^   in   equal  parts  of 


330  W«2B  to  Ooofi  f>otatoe0       391 

butter  and  lard.  When  partly  done,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  cover  for  a  few  minutes 
to  finish  cooking.  Remove  the  cover  and  brown. 
Cold  cooked  potatoes  cut  in  thicker  slices  may 
be  used  the  same  way. 

FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES— I 

Peel  and  quarter  equal-sized  potatoes  or 
cut  into  eights.  Soak  in  cold  water  for  half 
an  hour.  Dry  thoroughly  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Drain  and  reheat  with  salt,  minced  parsley,  and 
melted  butter  to  season. 

FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES— II 

Peel  and  quarter  lengthwise  small  potatoes 
or  cut  into  eighths,  and  soak  in  cold  water  for 
half  an  hour.  Drain  and  dry  on  a  cloth.  Put 
into  a  frying-pan  with  hot  fat  to  a  little  more 
than  half  their  height.  When  they  are  half 
done,  skim  out  the  potatoes,  heat  the  fat  smoking 
hot,  then  put  in  the  potatoes  and  fry  until 
puffed  and  brown.  Drain,  season  with  salt 
and  a  little  melted  butter  if  desired.  They  may 
be  parboiled  before  frying. 

GERMAN  FRIED  POTATOES 

Cut  six  boiled  potatoes  into  thin  slices.  Saut^ 
in  butter  until  light  brown,  then  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  parsley,  a 
teaspoonful  of  minced  onion,  the  juice  of  half 


393  Dovp  to  Coof(  IPe0etable0 

a  lemon,  and  enough  stock  or  brown  gravy  to 
moisten.    Serve  very  hot. 

DUTCH  FRIED  POTATOES 

Chop  a  small  onion  fine  and  fry  it  in  pork 
fat  or  butter.  Add  two  cupfuls  of  sliced  raw 
potatoes  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Fry 
golden  brown,  add  a  beaten  egg,  cook  for  a 
moment,  and  serve. 

PRIED  POTATO  BALLS  OR  DICE 

Cut  a  pint  of  balls  from  peeled  raw  potatoes, 
using  a  French  vegetable-cutter.  Or,  cut  into 
dice.  Soak  in  cold  water  for  fifteen  minutes, 
drain,  and  dry  with  cloths.  Fry  in  deep  fat, 
drain,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Serve  with  Cream 
Sauce. 

POTATO  BALLS  SAUT^ 

Cut  balls  from  raw  potatoes  with  a  French 

cutter    and  saut6    in   melted    butter,    turning 

constantly.  Drain  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
serve. 

SARATOGA  CHIPS 

Peel  potatoes  and  slice  thinly  crosswise  on 
a  potato-slicer.  Soak  for  half  an  hour  in  ice- 
water,  drain,  dry  on  a  cloth,  and  fry  in  deep 
fat,  using  a  frying-basket.  Drain  thoroughly, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve.  When  ^ced 
lengthwise  they  are  called  Boston  Chips. 


336  tnias0  to  Ooofi  potatoes       393 

SHADOW  POTATOES 

Slice  peeled  potatoes  as  thinly  as  possible, 
using  a  vegetable-slicer.  Soak  in  cold  water 
for  two  hours,  changing  the  water  twice.  Drain, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  boil  for  one  minute, 
drain  again  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Drain, 
dry  between  towels,  put  into  a  frying-basket, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  and  sprinkle  with 
salt  before  serving. 

LATTICED  POTATOES 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Saratoga  Chips,  using  a  fluted  or  latticed  cutter. 

FRIED  POTATOES  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE 

Parboil  two  cupfuls  of  potatoes,  cut  into 
dice,  drain,  and  fry  brown  in  butter.  Pour 
over  a  cupful  of  Cream  Sauce,  to  which  has 
been  added  half  a  cupful  of  stock  or  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  beef  extract,  a  teaspoonful  of  minced 
parsley,  and  a  few  drops  of  kitchen  bouquet. 

PUFFED  FRIED  POTATOES 

Cut  raw  peeled  potatoes  into  small  dice  or 
slices  and  soak  for  half  an  hour  in  cold  water. 
Drain,  wipe  very  dry,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  until 
nearly  done.  Drain,  bring  the  fat  to  the  boiling 
point,  put  the  basket  in  again,  and  fry  until 
puffed  and  brown.  Sweet  potatoes  may  be 
CQpked  in  the  same  way. 


394  I'ow  to  Oooft  JDegctBbiCB 

POTATOES  JULIENNE 

Cut  peeled  and  sliced  potatoes  into  thin 
match-like  shreds.  Soak  for  an  hour  in  cold 
water,  drain,  dry  thoroughly,  and  fry  in  deep 
fat  in  a  frying-basket.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
serve.  These  are  sometimes  called  Shoestring 
Potatoes. 

POTATO  RIBBONS 

Peel  large  potatoes  and  cut  crosswise  into 
inch  or  half-inch  slices.  Soak  in  cold  water  for 
an  hour  and  drain  and  cut  each  one  round  and 
round  to  the  core  with  a  sharp  knife,  making  a 
long  strip  like  an  apple  peeling.  Tie  in  a  loose 
knot.  Fry  gently  in  fat  not  too  hot  until  golden 
brown ;  then  drain,  heat  the  fat  to  boiling,  and 
finish  cooking.  Drain,  season  with  salt,  and 
serve.  The  whole  potato  may  be  peeled  round 
and  round  like  an  apple. 

POTATO  CURLS 

Peel  long  narrow  potatoes,  shape  with  a 
potato-curler,  and  soak  for  an  hour  in  cold 
water.  Drain,  dry  between  towels,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat. 

DEVILED  FRIED  POTATOES 

Cut  raw  potatoes  into  balls  with  a  French 
cutter  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  and  pour 
over  a  little  French  mustard  mixed  with  melted 
butter.     Heat  thoroughly  and  serve. 


336  Wntfi  to  Coofi  potatoee       395 

FRIED  POTATO  PUFFS 

Season  hot  mashed  potatoes  with  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt.  To  a  pint  of  potatoes  add  one 
egg  well  beaten,  and  cool.  Shape  into  balls 
with  floured  hands,  roll  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat. 

POTATOES  AND  ONION  SAUTlfe 

Peel  equal  quantities  of  small  new  potatoes 
and  onions  of  equal  size.  Saut^  in  butter,  then 
put  in  water  to  half  the  height  of  the  vegetables. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  and  cook 
slowly  for  half  an  hour,  squeeze  in  a  little  lemon- 
juice,  and  serve. 

GLAZED  POTATOES 

Boil  small  potatoes,  peel,  brush  with  the 
beaten  yolk  of  eggy  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  bake  brown. 

HASHED  BROWN  POTATOES 

Peel  and  chop  fine,  enough  raw  potatoes  to 
make  a  pint.  Heat  two  tablespoonfuls  of  beef 
drippings  in  a  frying-pan,  add  the  potatoes, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  stock  or  hot  water,  cover  and  cook 
slowly  until  soft,  then  more  rapidly  until  brown. 
If  more  liquid  is  required,  add  a  little  stock 
or  water  or  cream.  When  a  crisp  crust  is  formed, 
loosen  at  the  edges  and  turn  like  an  omelet. 


396  Dow  to  OoofK  ipegetables 

HASHED  CREAMED  POTATOES 

Peel  raw  potatoes,  chop  fine,  and  put  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish  with  alternate  layers  of 
well-seasoned  Cream  Sauce,  sprinkling  each 
layer  of  potatoes  with  salt,  pepper,  minced 
parsley,  and  onion- juice.  Have  sauce  on  top. 
Sprinkle  with  crumbs,  bake  for  half  an  hour, 
and  serve  in  the  baking-dish. 

KENTUCKY  POTATOES 

Slice  six  large  potatoes  thin  and  soak  in  ice- 
water  for  half  an  hour.  Drain  and  put  into 
a  dripping-pan,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Pour  over  a  cupful  of  milk  and  bake  for  an 
hour,  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
serve. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES 

Slice  two  small  onions  and  fry  in  butter. 
Reheat  with  six  or  eight  boiled  potatoes  sliced 
thin  or  cut  into  dice.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  cook  until  brown,  sprinkle  with  minced 
parsley,  and  serve.  A  few  drops  of  vinegar  or 
a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice  may  be  added. 

MASHED  POTATOES— I 

Peel  potatoes  and  soak  for  an  hour  in  cold 
water.  Drain,  cover  with  fresh  cold  water, 
adding  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Boil,  put  through 
a   potato-ricer,    season   liberally    with    butter, 


336  WUn^  to  aooft  potatoea       397 

moisten  slightly  with  milk  or  cream,  and  add 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  If  desired,  add  a 
little  celery  salt  or  nutmeg.  Beat  thoroughly  and 
serve;  or,  put  into  the  serving-dish,  score  the 
top  into  squares  with  a  knife,  pour  over  a  little 
melted  butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

MASHED  POTATOES— II 

Peel  and  soak  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour. 
Drain,  cover  with  boiling  salted  water,  and 
cook  until  done.  Drain  and  mash.  Melt  a 
tablespoonf ul  of  butter  in  half  a  cupful  of  boiling 
milk  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  with  the  potatoes 
and  beat  hard  until  very  light.  Or,  put  into 
a  vegetable  dish,  smooth  over  the  top,  and  brush 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  or  with  melted  butter 
and  dredge  with  flour.    Brown  in  the  oven. 

PERFECT  MASHED  POTATOES 

Peel  potatoes  of  equal  size,  cover  with  boiling 
salted  water,  and  cook  imtil  soft.  Drain  thor- 
oughly, put  through  a  potato-ricer,  and  add  a 
liberal  amount  of  melted  butter  and  enough 
boiling  cream  to  make  of  the  proper  consistency. 
Beat  hard  until  very  smooth  and  light,  adding 
more  salt  if  necessary.  Put  through  the  ricer 
again  just  before  serving,  if  desired,  making  a 
border  around  the  meat. 

MASHED  POTATOES  A  LA  BOURGEOISE 

Put  thick  mashed  potatoes  into  a  buttered 


39S         t)ciw  to  Oooft  Vegetables 

baking-dish,  brush  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle 
with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  for 
fifteen  minutes.    Serve  in  the  same  dish. 

MASHED  POTATOES  A  L'ESPAGNOLE 

Season  a  pint  of  mashed  potatoes  with  butter 
and  salt,  add  a  tablespoonful  each  of  chopped 
fried  onions  and  chopped  parsley,  moisten  with 
stock,  and  serve.  Or,  fry  a  chopped  onion  in 
drippings  and  pour  over  mashed  potatoes. 

MASHED  POTATOES  AU  GRATIN 

Season  mashed  potatoes  liberally  with  butter 
and  grated  cheese,  put  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  spread  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  grated 
cheese,  and  bake  until  brown. 

BROWNED  MASHED  POTATOES 

Butter  a  serving-dish,  fill  with  hot  mashed 
potatoes,  cover  with  melted  butter,  and  dredge 
lightly  with  flour.  Brown  in  the  oven  and 
serve  in  the  same  dish. 

POTATO  MANGLE 

Peel,  boil,  and  chop  six  large  potatoes  with 
six  hard-boiled  eggs.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  melted  butter  or  cream.  Reheat, 
sprinkle  with  minced  parsley,  and  serve. 

POTATO  NESTS— I 
Use  the  wire  baskets  made  for  this  purpose 


330  TiOaee  to  Cook  Itotatocd       399 

and  fill  the  space  between  with  raw  potatoes 
shredded  or  sliced.  Fry  in  deep  fat  and  remove 
carefully.  Fill  the  nests  with  potato  balls  fried 
in  deep  fat,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  minced  pars- 
ley, and  serve. 

POTATO  NESTS— II 

Mix  together  a  pint  of  hot  mashed  potato  and 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  seasoning  with  salt, 
pepper,  celery  salt,  grated  onion,  and  minced 
parsley.  Shape  into  nests  or  fill  small  buttered 
moulds  and  scoop  out  the  centres.  Brush  the 
nests  with  melted  butter  and  beaten  egg  and 
brown  in  the  oven.  Fill  the  centres  with  green 
peas  or  any  other  suitable  mixture.  The  celery 
salt  may  be  omitted. 

BOILED  NEW  POTATOES 

Scrape  off  the  skins,  or  rub  off  with  a  coarse 
clothi  Soak  for  an  hour  in  cold  water,  drain, 
cover  with  cold  salted  water,  and  bring  to  the 
boil.  Cook  for  half  an  hour,  drain«  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  dry  for  two  or  three  minutes  before 
serving.  Add  a  little  melted  butter  if  desired. 
Or,  pour  over  a  cupful  of  cream  or  milk^  which 
has  been  boiled  with  a  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  butter.  Or  season  with  salt,  pepper,  minced 
parsley,  melted  butter  and  cream;  a  sprinkle 
of  caraway  seed  may  be  added.  Or,  Serve  with 
HoUandaise  Sauce.  .    .  .     ,; 


4O0  flow  to  Cooh  moet^blcB 

CREAMED  NEW  POTATOES 

Rub  the  skins  from  new  potatoes  with,  a 
coarse  cloth.  Cook  until  done  in  boiling  salted 
water,  pour  over  a  Cream  Sauce,  and,  if  desired, 
sprinkle  with  minced  parsley.  Old  potatoes, 
boiled  whole,  may  be  served  in  the  same  way. 

NEW  POTATOES  BROWNED  IN  BUTTER 

Boil  small  new  potatoes  or  potato  balls  until 
nearly  done,  drain,  and  fry  brown  in  butter. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  minced  parsley,  and 
serve, 

IMITATION  NEW  POTATOES 

Peel  small  round  potatoes  and  boil  untH 
tender  in  equal  parts  of  milk  and  water  to  which 
a  pinch  of  salt  has  been  added.  Drain,  pour 
over  a  Cream  Sauce,  and  serve. 

NEW  POTATOES  A  L'ANGLAISE 

Boil  new  potatoes,  remove  the  skin,  and  put 
into  a  vegetable-dish  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  nutmeg  to  season.  Melt  butter  so  slowly 
as  not  to  boil,  pour  over  the  potatoes,  and  serve. 
They  may  be  boiled  with  a  sprig  of  mint  and 
the  nutmeg  omitted. 

POTATOES  O'BRIEN 

Cut  boiled  potatoes  into  dice  and  reheat  in 
butter  with  canned  red  peppers  cut  into  strips 


Zi6  WKQfi  to  Oooft  ^tatoe0       401 

or  fried  green  x)eppers,  or  both,  and  season  with 
chopped  onion  fried  in  butter  if  desired.  Or, 
prepare  according  to  directions  given  for  French 
Fried  Potatoes,  cutting  into  dice  and  frying 
with  them  the  red  or  green  pepper  or  both. 

POTATO  OMELET— I 

Peel,  boil,  drain,  and  mash  nine  ix>tatoes. 
Add  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  three  teaspoon- 
f uls  of  melted  butter,  and  half  a  cupful  of  boiling 
water.  Beat  until  very  light.  Melt  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and,  when 
hissing  hot,  put  in  the  potato.  Cover  and 
cook  slowly  until  brown  on  the  tmder  side. 
Fold,  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve 
immediately. 

POTATO  OMELET— II 

Beat  a  pint  of  mashed  potatoes  to  a  soft 
cream,  moistening  with  milk  and  seasoning 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  melted  butter.  Add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
into  a  fr3dng-pan  and  when  hissing  hot  pour 
in  the  potato.  Cook  slowly  for  ten  nainutes, 
then  fold  and  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish. 

PURINE  OP  POTATOES— I 

Peel  four  potatoes  and  soak  in  cold  water 
for  half  an  hour,  then  boil,  drain,  and  mash. 
Mix  with  a  pint  of  Cream  Sauce  which  has  been 
a6 


402  t)OV0  to  Ooofc  x>cg€M>\cs 

seasoned    with    salt,  pepper,   and    onion-juice. 
Heat  for  five  minutes  and  serve. 

PUR^E  OF  POTATOES— II 

Peel,  boil,  drain,  and  mash  enough  potatoes  to 
make  a  pound.  Moisten  with  half  a  cupful  of 
stock  or  cream  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  pepper  and 
salt  to  season.  Heat  thoroughly,  put  it  into 
the  centre  of  a  hot  platter,  and  arrange  around 
it  broiled  chops  or  cutlets. 

POTATO  PATTIES 

Peel  and  grate  six  potatoes,  add  two  eggs 
beaten  with  a  cupful  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  two  cupf uls  of  flour  sifted  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  baking-powder.  Mix  thoroughly  and  drop 
by  spoonfuls  into  deep  fat.  Fry  brown  and 
crisp. 

POTATO  PUDDING 

Peel  and  chop  six  potatoes  and  mix  with  one 
cupful  of  flour,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Put  into  a  deep 
buttered  baking-dish,  cover  with  cream,  and 
bake  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

POTATO  PUFF— I 

Beat  until  creamy  four  cupfuls  of  mashed 
potatoes  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter.    Add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten, 


336  WnB  to  Qooh  potatoes       403 

a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  cupfvil  of  milk  or  cream. 
Pour  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  and  spread 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  into  the  potato  and 
bake  tmtil  well  puffed  and  brown.  One  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  three  of  cream  may  be 
used  if  the  potatoes  are  moist. 

POTATO  PUFF— II 

Season  a  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes  with 
salt,  pepper,  celery  salt,  and  butter.  Add 
enough  hot  milk  or  cream  to  make  very  moist. 
Add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  cool  a 
little,  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Pile 
roughly  into  a  shallow  buttered  baking-dish 
and  bake  until  well  puffed  and  brown.  Half 
a  cupful  of  well-cooked  minced  meat  may  be 
mixed  with  the  potatoes  if  desired. 

POTATO  PUFF— III 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  hot  mashed 
potatoes,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  half  a 
cupful  of  boiling  milk  or  cream,  a  tablespoonf ul 
of  minced  parsley,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
well  beaten.  Cool  slightly,  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites,  and  pile  roughly  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish.  Bake  until  brown.  Or,  add  only 
one  egg  to  the  potatoes  and  mould  into  small 
balls.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  brown  on  a 
buttered  tin.  Instead  of  stirring  in  the  parsley 
the  balls  may  be  sprinkled  with  it. 


404  f)ow  to  Cook  lDe0etab(e0 

BOHEMIAN  POTATO  PUFF 

Mix  mashed  potatoes  with  enough  sifted  flour 
to  make  a  smooth  thick  dough.  Drop  by  table- 
spoonfuls  into  deep  fat  in  which  two  sliced 
onions  have  been  fried.  Fry  brown  and  serve 
with  fried  onion  as  garnish. 

POTATO  PUFFS— I 

Grate  enough  boiled  potatoes  to  make  two 
cupfuls.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  cupful  of 
flour  and  enough  sour  cream  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Roll  out  thin,  cut  with  a  biscuit-cutter, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

POTATO  PUFFS— II 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  Ave  potatoes,  add  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  pepper 
and  salt  to  season.  Cool,  add  one  egg  well 
beaten,  and  mix  thoroughly.  With  floured 
hands  shape  into  strips  or  rolls  three  or  four 
inches  long  and  fry  brown  in  deep  fat. 

POTATO  PUFFS— III 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  and  mix  with  two  cupfuls 
of  mashed  potatoes,  either  hot  or  cold.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  add  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  heat  thoroughly. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites   of  the   eggs.     Put   into   well-buttered 


336  Tinias0  to  Cooii  poUtoee       405 

gem-pans  which  have  been  thoroughly  heated, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  well  puffed  and 
brown.  Or,  use  twice  as  much  cream  and  shape 
into  roses,  using  a  pastry  bag,  brush  with  beaten 
egg,  and  bake  brown. 

POTATO  QUENELLES— I 

Mash  while  hot  a  pound  of  dry,  mealy,  boiled 
potatoes.  Add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter, 
three  tablespoonfuls  each  of  cream  and  minced 
cooked  ham,  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and 
salt,  pepper,  and  minced  parsley  to  season. 
Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  with  two  teaspoons  shape  into  quenelles. 
Fry  brown  in  deep  fat,  drain,  and  serve  very  hot. 

POTATO  QUENELLES— II 

Bake  sixteen  large  potatoes,  take  out  the 
pulp  and  mash  fine.  Add  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  to 
season,  two  eggs,  and  the  yolks  of  six.  Add 
also  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley.  Fold 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  shape 
into  very  small  balls,  flatten  a  little,  and  simmer 
in  boiling  salted  water  until  firm.  Drain  on 
a  sieve  and  serve  with  Colbert  Sauce. 

RAGOUT  OF  POTATOES 

Cut  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  into  dice  and 
fry  crisp,  adding  a  little  butter  if  necessary. 
Dredge  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  add  a 


4o6  Dow  to  Oooft  JDcgetnblcs 

pint  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  until  it  thickens, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  a  dozen  small  potatoes 
peeled,  two  onions,  a  small  bunch  of  parsley, 
and  a  bay-leaf.  Cook  covered  until  done,  then 
remove  the  bay-leaf  and  serve. 

POTATO  ROLLS 

Peel  small  potatoes,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  wrap 
a  thin  slice  of  bacon  around  each  one.  Fasten 
with  tooth-picks  and  bake,  basting  occasionally. 

POTATO  ROSE&— I 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  hot  mashed 
potatoes,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  salt, 
paprika,  and  celery  salt  to  season.  Press  through 
a  pastry  bag  and  tube  on  a  buttered  tin  sheet 
and  brush  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  water. 

POTATO  ROSES— II 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  well-seasoned 
mashed  potatoes,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and 
the  white  of  one,  or  a  little  cream.  Put  into 
a  pastry  bag  with  a  star  tube  at  the  end.  Press 
into  a  buttered  baking-pan  in  the  shape  of 
roses,  winding  to  a  point.  Brush  with  a  beaten 
eggi  dot  with  butter,  and  brown. 

RICED  POTATOES 

Prepare    according    to    directions    given    for 


I 


336  Wna  to  Oooft  ^tatoe0       407 

Boiled  Potatoes — I,  and  put  through  a  potato- 
ricer  or  colander  into  the  dish  in  which  they 
are  to  be  served.  Brown  in  the  oven,  sprinkling 
with  grated  cheese  if  desired.  Or,  season  and 
press  through  a  potato-ricer  into  a  serving-dish 
and  serve  immediately. 

ROASTED  POTATOES 

Peel  small  round  potatoes,  soak  for  half  an 
hour  in  cold  water,  drain,  and  wipe  dry.  Brown 
in  drippings  or  pork  fat,  add  two  tablesxx>onfuls 
of  cold  water,  cover  tightly,  and  finish  cooking. 

ROASTED  PARISIENNE  POTATOES 

Peel,  parboil,  and  drain  the  potatoes  and 
finish  cooking  in  the  oven  with  clarified  butter 
and  a  little  salt.  Drain  off  the  butter,  add 
fresh  butter  and  minced  parsley,  and  serve.  Or, 
boil  the  potatoes  until  nearly  done  and  roast 
until  brown,  basting  with  seasoned  melted 
butter. 

GERMAN  POTATO  PANCAKES 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
German  Potato  Fritters,  shaping  the  mixture 
into  a  pancake. 

STEAMED  POTATOES 

Put  peeled  potatoes  into  a  colander  or  steamer 
over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  cover,  and  cook 
until  done.    Or,  steam  without  peeling. 


4o8  t>ow  to  Cooft  t)e0eta&le0 

SOUR  POTATOES 

Peel  and  cut  into  dice  four  boiled  potatoes. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Chop  fine  an 
onion  and  three  or  four  sprigs  of  parsley,  add 
a  cupful  of  olive-oil  and  three  or  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  vinegar.  Pour  over  the  potatoes,  mix 
thoroughly,  and  serve. 

POTATO  SCONES 

To  a  heaping  cupful  of  mashed  potatoes  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  milk,  or  butter,  half  a  cupful 
of  flour,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix 
thoroughly,  roll  out,  cut  into  rounds,  prick  with 
a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Or,  bake  on 
a  buttered  griddle. 

POTATO  SHELLS 

Scrub  and  bake  equal-sized  potatoes.  When 
soft  cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each  and  carefully 
scoop  out  the  pulp.  Rub  the  pulp  through  a 
fine  sieve,  season  liberally  with  butter  and 
cream,  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Heat 
thoroughly  and  fold  in  the  beaten  white  of  one 
or  two  eggs.  Fill  the  potato  skins,  brush  with 
melted  butter,  and  if  desired  sprinkle  with 
grated  cheese.  Put  into  the  oven  for  a  few 
moments  before  serving. 

SMOTHERED  POTATOES 
Wash    potatoes    and    put    into    a    saucepan 


336  inUigs  to  Cooii  ^tatoe0       409 

immediately.  Cover  tightly  and  cook  for  half 
an  hour,  shaking  the  pan  occasionally  to  prevent 
burning. 

SURPRISE  POTATOES— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Potato  Croquettes,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper, 
butter,  and  cream.  Shape  in  small  nests  and 
fill  with  creamed  chicken,  shrimps,  or  peas. 
Cover  with  the  croquette  mixture,  roll  in  the 
form  of  croquettes,  dip  in  crumbs,  then  in  egg, 
then  in  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 

SURPRISE  POTATOES— II 

Cut  a  thick  slice  from  the  top  of  each  of  six  or 
eight  large  potatoes.  Scoop  out  a  large  portion  of 
the  inside  and  fill  with  cooked  sausage  meat. 
Stick  the  lids  on  with  a  stifE  paste  made  of  flour 
and  the  white  of  egg.  Bake  until  the  potato  is  soft. 

SURPRISE  POTATOES— III 

Peel  large  potatoes  and  with  an  apple-corer 
scoop  out  the  centres  lengthwise.  Put  a  frank- 
furter or  a  small  pork  sausage  into  each  opening. 
Put  into  a  dripping-pan  with  a  thin  slice  of 
salt  pork  laid  on  each  potato.  Baste  frequently 
with  the  drippings  and  season  with  pepper  and 
salt  just  before  serving. 

SURPRISE  POTATOES— IV 

Mix  together  a  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes. 


4IO  Dovi»  to  Cooft  ll^egetables 

a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
and  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  onion-juice,  and 
celery  salt  to  season.  Shape  into  round  balls, 
filling  the  centre  with  creamed  chicken,  peas, 
or  sweetbreads.  Dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  or 
in  crumbs  only,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

SURPRISE  POTATOES— V 

Peel  and  split  lengthwise  six  large  potatoes. 
Scoop  out  the  inside,  leaving  a  shell  half  an 
inch  thick.  Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  chopped 
beef,  either  cooked  or  raw,  a  tablespoonful 
each  of  butter  and  tomato  catsup,  with  salt, 
pepper,  minced  onion,  and  parsley  to  season. 
Add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  fill  the  shells,  cover 
with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  for  half  an 
hour,  basting  with  melted  butter  and  hot  water. 

POTATO  SOUFFLl^I 

Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to  three 
cupfuls  of  hot  milk  and  beat  to  a  smooth  paste 
with  four  cupfuls  of  mashed  potato.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  four  eggs  well 
beaten.  Pour  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  and 
bake  until  well  pufEed  and  brown. 

POTATO  SOUFFL^II 

Add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  to  two  cupfuls  of 
soft  and  well-seasoned  mashed  potatoes.  When 
partially  cool,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites. 


J 


336  Wins  to  Cooft  potatoes       411 

put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  until  well  puffed  and  brown. 

POTATO  SOUFPL^— III 

Boil,  peel,  and  mash  six  potatoes.  Add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  cupful  of  boiling 
cream,  and  salt  and  black  pepper  to  taste.  Beat 
until  very  light  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs.  Two  heaping  tablespoonf  uls 
of  grated  cheese  may  be  added.  Pile  roughly 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish  and  bake  until 
well  puffed  and  brown.  Serve  in  the  same 
dish. 

POTATO  souffl:^— IV 

Chop  fine  two  onions  and  fry  in  butter  with 
two  tablespoonf  uls  of  minced  ham.  Mix  with 
eight  potatoes  peeled,  boiled,  and  mashed,  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  half  a  cupful 
of  stock,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  minced  parsley 
to  season.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs,  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs,  and  bake  until  brown. 

POTATO  S0UFFL6— V 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  six  potatoes,  then  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  melted  in  a  cupful 
of  boiling  cream,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
Add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  put 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  thickly 
with  grated  cheese,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 


4X3  Dow  to  Oool^  VeaetnblcB 

POTATO  S0UFFL6— VI 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  four  or  five  potatoes. 
Cook  to  a  smooth  paste  with  half  a  cupful  or 
a  cupful  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Add  one  at  a 
time  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beating  constantly, 
take  from  the  fire,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites,  pour  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and 
bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Or,  use  six  potatoes, 
one  cupful  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  the  white  of  one  egg,  if  a  simpler  dish  is 
desired. 

POTATO  SOUFFL]£— VII 

Rub  a  quart  of  hot  boiled  potatoes  through 
a  colander,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  half  a  cupful  or 
a  cupful  of  cream  or  milk,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Beat  until  very  light,  using  a  fork, 
and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs 
last.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  brown 
in  the  oven,  and  serve.  The  yolks  may  be 
omitted. 

POTATO  SOUFFL]^VIII 

Beat  together  one  cupful  of  mashed  potatoes, 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  a  table- 
spoonful of  melted  butter,  a  cupful  of  milk, 
and  salt,  pepper,  and  onion- juice  to  season. 
Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 


336  WLVSB  to  Cooft  |>otatoe6        4x3 

pour   into    a   buttered  baking-dish,  and    bake 
until  well  puffed  and  brown.    Serve  immediately, 

POTATO  SOUFFLlS— IX 

Mix  together  two  cupf  uls  of  mashed  potatoes, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  and  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  six  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
if  desired,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
cheese.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  pile 
roughly  into  a  baking-dish,  and  bake  until 
well  puffed  and  brown.     Serve  immediately. 

POTATO  SOUFFLfe— X 

Boil  six  large  potatoes,  peel,  and  mash.  Add 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  cream, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  until  very 
light.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  four 
eggs,  and  heat  by  spoonfuls  in  a  buttered  baking- 
dish.  Dust  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and 
bake  until  well  puffed  and  brown. 

POTATO  SOUFFLE— XI 

To  a  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  add  half 
a  cupful  of  thick  Cream  Sauce,  one-fourth 
cupful  of  melted  butter,  and  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs.  Mix  thoroughly,  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  pour  a 
little  melted  butter  over  the  top.  Bake  in  a 
buttered    baking-dish    until    well    puffed    and 


414  l>ow  to  CooR  megetabled 


brown.      Left-over   mashed   potatoes   may    be  | 

used  for  this  dish.  i 

I 

POTATO  SOUFFLfe— XII  ' 

Steam  six  large  potatoes,  peel,  and  mash. 
Add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  boiled  cream,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  season.  Beat  hard  and  fold  in  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pour  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with  grated 
cheese,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  well 
puffed  and  brown.  The  cheese  may  be  omitted. 
It  wiU  be  lighter  if  the  whites  of  four  eggs  are 
used. 

POTATO  SOUFFL^XIII 

Bring  to  the  boil  a  cupful  of  water,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Add 
five  ounces  of  sifted  flour,  and  cook  until  the 
mixture  leaves  the  sides  of  the  pan,  stirring 
constantly.  Remove  the  pulp  from  a  dozen 
large  baked  potatoes,  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve. 
Add  enough  of  the  paste  to  equal  one-fourth 
the  quantity  of  potatoes,  and  as  much  butter 
as  paste.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  add  one  by  one 
five  unbeaten  eggs.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  grated  nutmeg,  moisten  with  cream,  and 
shape  into  small  balls.    Fry  in  deep  fat. 

POTATO  SOUFFL^XIV 

Mix  a  pint  of  hot  well-seasoned  mashed  potato 


336  Maw  to  Oooft  potatoea       4x5 

with  a  tablespoonf  ul  each  of  butter  and  minced 
parsley.  Add  a  two-thirds  cupful  of  boiling 
milk,  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs. 
Mix  thoroughly,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites, 
turn  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and  bake 
until  well  puffed  and  brown. 

STEWED  POTATOES— I 

Cut  raw  potatoes  into  dice,  soak  in  cold  water 
for  an  hour,  and  cook  until  tender  in  salted 
boiling  water.  Drain,  and  add  hot  milk  to 
cover,  having  first  dissolved  a  pinch  of  soda 
in  the  milk.  Bring  to  the  boil,  thicken  with 
flour  cooked  in  butter,  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
onion- juice,  and  minced  parsley,  and  serve. 

STEWED  POTATOES— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Stewed  Potatoes — I,  using  stock  for  liquid, 
omitting  the  soda,  and  browning  the  flour  in 
the  butter. 

STEWED  POTATOES— III 

Peel  and  slice  raw  potatoes,  soak  in  cold 
salted  water  for  fifteen  minutes,  drain,  and 
cover  with  milk.  Cook  slowly  until  the  potatoes 
are  tender,  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
salt  to  season,  and  a  little  minced  parsley.  The 
milk  may  be  thickened  with  a  little  flour  if 
desired. 


4x6  f)ow  to  Cook  Ve0etal)Ie5 

STEWED  POTATOES— IV 

Chop  an  onion  fine,  and  fry  it  in  drippings. 
Add  a  tablespoonf ul  of  flour  and  a  pint  of  peeled 
and  quartered  potatoes.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  cook  covered  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
add  enough  stock  to  moisten  and  finish  cooking. 

STEWED  POTATOES— V 

Chop  fine  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  a  large 
onion.  Cook  with  six  or  eight  peeled  and  sliced 
potatoes,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  season, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  a  cupful  or 
more  of  boiling  water.  Cook  covered  until  the 
potatoes  are  done,  and  serve. 

STEWED  POTATOES— VI 

Peel  and  slice  enough  potatoes  to  make  two 
quarts,  and  soak  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour. 
Put  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  into  a  deep  baking- 
dish,  then  put  in  half  the  potatoes,  then  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Put^in  the  remainder  of 
the  potatoes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
cover  with  thin  slices  of  salt  pork.  Cover  and 
bake  for  half  an  hour,  then  tmcover  and  brown. 
Serve  in  the  same  dish.  A  tablespoonful  of 
grated  onion  may  be  added  to  the  seasoning. 

STEWED  POTATOES— VII 

Peel  and  chop  enough  raw  potatoes  to  make 
a  quart.    Soak  in  cold  water  for  ten  noinutes. 


336  Wiuw  to  Cooii  potatocd       417 

then  drain,  and  put  into  a.  saucepan  with  a 
cupful  of  water,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
Simmer  for  twenty  minutes,  then  add  a  cupful 
of  milk  in  which  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  has 
been  rubbed  smooth.  Simmer  for  ten  minutes 
and  serve.  Stock  may  be  used  instead  of  milk 
and  water. 

STEWED  POTATOES— VIII 

Peel  and  cut  into  dice  a  dozen  boiled  potatoes. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  blended  in  a  cupful  of 
milk.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  smooth  and 
creamy,  then  take  from  the  fire  and  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley  and  one  egg 
well  beaten. 

STEWED  POTATOES— IX 

Peel  and  cut  up  enough  raw  potatoes  to 
make  a  pint.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  medium-sized  onion 
peeled  and  chopped,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
water,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  minced  parsley,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  celery  salt. 
Simmer  slowly  until  the  potatoes  are  soft,  then 
add  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour  blended  with  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 
Cook  until  the  sauce  is  smooth  and  thick,  stirring 
constantly. 

37 


4zS  f)ow  to  Cook  VegttnblcB 

STEWED  POTATOES— X 

Chop  fine  an  onion  and  fry  it  brown  in  butter. 
Add  half  a  dozen  peeled  and  sliced  potatoes, 
cover  tightly,  and  cook  slowly  until  soft,  stirring 
occasionally.  Brown  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
in  butter,  add  a  cupful  of  stock,  and  cook  until 
thick,  stirring  constantly,  add  a  teaspoonful 
each  of  vinegar  and  minced  parsley,  pour  over 
the  potatoes,  bring  to  the  boil,  and  serve. 

STEWED  POTATOES— XI 

Peel  and  cut  into  dice  six  large  potatoes,  and 
soak  for  twenty  minutes  in  cold  water.  Drain 
and  cook  in  boiling  water  barely  sufficient  to 
cover.  Cook  until  half  done,  then  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter 
and  sugar,  and  half  a  cupful  of  cream  in  which 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour  has  been  rubbed  smooth. 
Cook  gently  until  smooth  and  thick,  then  serve. 

STEWED  POTATOES— XII 

Cream  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  beat  in 
with  it  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Add  a  tablespoonful 
of  minced  parsley,  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Cut  a  pint  of 
cold  boiled  potatoes  into  dice,  or  cut  raw  potatoes 
into  balls  with  a  French  cutter,  and  boil  them 
for  ten  minutes.  Warm  the  potatoes  in  enough 
milk  to  cover,  and  when  the  milk  is  nearly 
absorbed,  stir  in  the  sauce,  and  serve  at  once. 


336  Vllaise  to  dock  ftotatoea       4x9 

STEWED  POTATOES—XIII 

Peel,  boil,  and  split  six  potatoes.  Pour  over 
a  sauce  made  of  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one  cupful  of  boiling  milk,  two  chopped  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
Cover  and  let  stand  for  a  few  moments  before 
serving. 

STEWED  POTATOES  WITH  CHEESE 

Peel  five  potatoes  and  cut  into  dice.  Boil 
until  tender,  drain,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  season.  Sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  cheese 
and  brown  in  the  oven. 

STEWED  OLD  POTATOES 

Peel  and  cut  into  quarters.  Soak  in  cold 
water  for  an  hour,  then  put  into  a  saucepan 
with  enough  cold  salted  water  to  cover,  and 
boil  until  nearly  done.  Drain,  add  enough 
milk  to  moisten  thoroughly,  and  bring  to  the 
boil.  Season  with  salt,  add  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful of  minced  parsley,  and  thicken  with 
flour  cooked  in  butter.  Stir  until  smooth  and 
thick,  and  serve. 

STEWED  POTATOES  WITH  ONIONS 

Chop  an  onion  fine,  fry  in  drippings,  and  add 
ten  small  potatoes  peeled.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  moisten  with  boiling  water,  cover. 


4ao  txm  to  aook  JOcgeUblcB 

and  simmer  for  forty-five  minutes.    Season  with 
a  little  vinegar  or  lemon- juice  and  serve. 

STUFFED  POTATOES— I 

Cut  the  top  from  each  of  six  baked  potatoes, 
scoop  out  the  pulp,  and  mash  to  a  smooth  paste 
with  three  tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter  and 
cream  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Add 
one-fourth  cupful  of  grated  cheese  and  cook  to 
a  smooth  paste.  Take  from  the  fire,  stir  in  one 
well-beaten  egg^  fill  the  skins,  and  bake. 

STUFFED  POTATOES— II 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each  of  six  baked 
potatoes,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp.  Beat  into 
it  a  teaspoonf ul  of  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  milk, 
the  yolk  of  one  egg,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
season.  Chop  fine  enough  cold  roast  beef  to  make 
a  cupful.  Add  one  teaspoonful  each  of  chopped 
celery  and  minced  parsley.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  mace.  Fill  the  potato  skins  with 
the  prepared  potato,  leaving  a  space  in  the 
centre  for  the  seasoned  beef.  Fill  the  shells, 
rub  the  openings  with  melted  butter,  and  bake 
imtil  brown. 

STUFFED  POTATOES— III 

Bake  six  large  potatoes,  slit  down  the  side, 
and  remove  the  pulp  without  breaking  the 
skin.  Rub  through  a  sieve  and  mix  thoroughly 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  half  a.  cupful  of 


336  TilIliiiS0  to  Oooft  potatoes       421 

cream,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  season.  Chop  fine,  enough  cold  roast  beef 
to  make  a  cupful  and  add  to  it  one  teaspoonful 
each  of  melted  butter,  minced  parsley,  and 
chopped  celery.  Season  with  salt,  black  pepper, 
and  mace.  Pill  the  skins  with  the  prepared 
potato,  leaving  a  small  space  in  the  centre. 
Fill  the  centres  with  the  meat  -and  cover  with 
the  potato.  Rub  with  melted  butter  and  brown 
in  the  oven. 

STUFFED  POTATOES— IV 

Cut  X)eeled  baked  potatoes  in  two,  scoop  out 
the  inside,  and  add  one-half  the  quantity  of  bread- 
crumbs. Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  minced 
parsley  and  rub  to  a  smooth  paste  with  melted 
butter  and  a  beaten  egg.  Boil  salsify  until 
tender,  press  through  a  sieve,  season  to  taste, 
and  make  smooth  with  a  little  cream.  Line 
buttered  timbale  moulds  or  individual  souffld 
dishes  with  the  potato  mixture,  fill  the  centre 
with  the  salsify,  and  cover  with  the  potato.  Put 
on  ice  until  firm.  Take  out  carefully,  brush 
with  beaten  egg,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  and  fry 
carefully  in  deep  fat.  Drain  and  serve  with  a 
Cream  Sauce. 

STUFFED  POTATOES— V 

Bake  a  dozen  large  potatoes,  cut  a  slice  from 
the  top  of  each,  scoop  out  the  pulp,  and  mash 
it  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  half  a 


r 


422  lbo\Q  to  dooft  lDe0etable0 

cupful  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  salt, 
pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  season.  Fill  the 
potato  shells,  put  on  the  lids,  reheat  and  serve. 
Or,  mash  the  pulp  with  butter  and  hot  milk. 
Brush  the  tops  with  beaten  egg  if  desired.  A 
little  powdered  sugar  and  grated  nutmeg  may 
be  added  to  the  seasoning. 

STUFFED  POTATOES— VI 

Bake  potatoes  of  equal  size,  cut  a  slice  from 
the  top  of  each,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp.  Mash 
and  mix  with  it  half  as  much  cooked  meat, 
minced  and  seasoned.  Fill  the  skins  and  brown 
in  the  oven. 

STUFFED  POTATOES— VII 

Split  ten  large  baked  potatoes  lengthwise  and 
scoop  out  the  pulp.  Chop  fine  three  large 
tomatoes,  an  onion,  and  a  green  pepper,  ^free 
from  seeds,  and  season  with  salt.  Add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  Take  from  the  fire,  mix 
with  the  potato  pulp,  fill  the  shells,  put  the 
potatoes  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  and 
serve. 

STUFFED  POTATOES— VIII 

Bake  six  large  potatoes,  cut  a  slice  from  the 
top  of  each,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp.  Mix  with 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful 
pf  buttef  and  salt,  sugar  ^nd  ^ated  }emon-peel 


336  MnB  to  Cook  ^tatoe6       423 

or  cinnamon  to  season.  Add  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  fill  the  potato  shells,  and  bake.  If 
desired,  a  little  minced  veal  or  ham  and  mush- 
room catsup  may  be  added  to  the  stuffing. 

STUFFED  POTATOES— IX 

Cut  in  two  lengthwise  eight  baked  potatoes. 
Scoop  out  the  pulp  and  mash  it  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  to  season, 
half  a  cupful  of  boiling  milk,  and  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Fill  the  shells 
and  brush  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs  slightly 
beaten.     Bake  until  brown. 

STUFFED  POTATOES— X 

Cut  baked  potatoes  in  two,  scoop  out  the  pulp, 
mash,  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Add  a  Httle  hot  milk.  Fill  the  potato  skins  and 
brush  with  melted  butter  or  beaten  egg^  sprinkle 
with  crumbs  if  desired,  and  reheat  in  the  oven. 
A  beaten  egg  or  two  may  be  added  to  the  pulp. 

STUFFED  BAKED  POTATOES— I 

Split  eight  baked  potatoes,  scoop  out  the 
pulp,  and  mash  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  half  a  cupful  of  boiling  cream,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  minced  onion,  a  teaspoonful  of 
minced  parsley,  and  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste. 
Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs. 
Fill  the  shells  and  bake  in  the  oven.  Or,  beat 
the   pulp  to  a   cream  ^   seasoning  with  melted 


434  Dow  to  aoofi  JDcetUbice 

butter,  pepper,  and  salt  and  moistening  with 
hot  gravy  or  milk.  Fill  the  shells  and  bnish 
with  melted  butter. 

STUFFED  BAKED  POTATOES— II 

Bake  potatoes  of  equal  size,  cut  a  slice  from 
the  top  of  each,  and  scoop  out  the  pvdp  without 
breaking  the  skin.  Rub  the  pulp  through  a 
sieve  and  mash  smooth,  seasoning  with  butter, 
salt,  pepper,  cream,  and  grated  cheese.  Add 
enough  milk  to  make  very  soft  and  reheat 
thoroughly,  stirring  constantly.  Add  one  egg 
well  beaten,  fill  the  skins,  put  on  the  covers,  and 
put  into  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  The  egg 
may  be  omitted  and  more  cheese  added. 

STUFFED  BAKED  POTATOES— III 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each  of  eight  baked 
potatoes.  Scoop  out  the  pulp  and  add  to  it 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  and  a  pinch  each  of  pepper,  salt,  and 
sugar.  Mix  thoroughly  and  serve.  A  little 
chopped  meat  or  fish  may  be  mixed  with  the 
potato. 

STUFFED  BAKED  POTATOES— IV 

Bake  eight  potatoes  of  equal  size  and  cut  in 
two.  Scoop  out  the  pulp,  mash  fine,  and  mix 
with  a  cupful  of  milk  which  is  half  cream.  Add 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  heat  gently, 
folding  in  gradually  the  stifily  beaten  whites  of 


336  WnB  to  dooft  potatoe0       425 

two  eggs.     Fill  the  potato  skins  and  bake  in 
the  oven  until  puifed  and  brown. 

STUFFED  BAKED  POTATOES— V 

Split  lengthwise  six  baked  potatoes,  scoop 
out  the  pulp,  and  mash  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  three  of  hot  cream  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  season.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs,  fill  the  shells,  sprinkle  with  crumbs 
and  grated  cheese,  dot  with  butter,  and  brown 
in  the  oven. 

STUFFED  BAKED  POTATOES— VI 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each  of  six  baked 
potatoes,  scoop  out  the  pulp,  and  mash  fine. 
Add  three  teaspoonfuls  each  of  butter,  grated 
cheese,  and  minced  parsley,  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  cayenne  to  season.  Moisten  with  milk  or 
cream,  and  cook  to  a  smooth  paste.  Take  from 
the  fire,  add  one  egg  well  beaten,  fill  the  potato 
shells,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  and  bake  brown. 

STUFFED  POTATO  CAKES 

Mix  mashed  potato  with  one  or  two  beaten 
eggs,  dredge  with  flour,  and  shape  into  small 
flat  cakes.  Put  two  together  with  minced  cooked 
meat,  seasoned  to  taste,  between.  Press  to- 
gether firmly  and  fry  brown  in  fat  to  cover. 

DEVILED  STUFFED  POTATOES 

Split  lengthwise  and  remove  the  pulp  from 


496  Dow  to  Oooft  VcgctablcB 

six  baked  potatoes.  Mash  fine  and  add  to  it 
one  hard-boiled  egg  chopped  fine,  salt,  cayenne, 
and  onion-juice  to  season,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
made  mustard.  FiU  the  shells  and  brown  in 
the  oven. 

POTATOES  STUFFED  WITH  MEAT— I 

Peel  and  cut  into  halves  lengthwise  six  large 
potatoes.  Scoop  out  the  centres,  leaving  a 
cup.  Parboil  for  ten  minutes,  drain,  and  put 
into  a  baking-dish.  Fill  the  centres  with  cold 
cooked  chopped  meat  or  creamed  fish  nicely 
seasoned.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

POTATOES  STUFFED  WITH  MEAT— II 

Split  lengthwise  six  baked  potatoes,  scoop 
out  the  pulp  and  mix  with  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  half  a  pound  of  minced 
cold  cooked  meat,  seasoning  .with  salt,  x>epper, 
and  celery  salt.  Fill  the  shells  and  bake  until 
the  meat  is  hot. 

POTATO  TIMBALE— I 

Peel,  boil,  drain  and  mash  eight  large  potatoes, 
add  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  two  tablespoonf  uls 
of  butter,  and  gradually  a  cupful  of  hot  milk. 
Add  three  eggs  well  beaten  and  pack  into  a 
buttered  mould,  which  has  been  sprinkled  with 
crumbs.  Bake  for  half  an  hour  and  let  stand 
for  ten  minutes  before  turning  out  pf  the  n^Qvdd, 


336  Wms  to  Cooft  potatoes        437 

POTATO  TIMBALB— II 

Cook,  drain,  and  rub  through  a  sieve  enough 
boiled  potatoes  to  make  two  quarts.  Put  into 
a  saucepan  with  six  ounces  of  butter  melted, 
two  whole  eggs,  and  the  yolks  of  six.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Butter  a  plain  timbale  mould, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs,  roll  beaten  eggs  over  the 
inside,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  again,  and  fill  with 
the  potatoes.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter,  and  bake  for  an  hour.  Let  the  mould 
stand  for  a  few  minutes  before  turning  out. 

POTATO  TIMBALE— III 

Boil,  peel,  and  mash  eight  large  potatoes  and 
season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  Chop  fine 
an  onion  and  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled 
eggs  and  fry  in  butter.  Drain  off  the  fat  and 
add  the  mixture  to  the  potatoes.  Add  two 
eggs  well  beaten  and  a  tablespoonful  of  catsup. 
Butter  a  mould,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  put  in 
the  potatoes,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour.  Brown 
in  the  oven  after  taking  from  the  mould. 

POTATO  TIMBALE— IV 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  eight  potatoes,  add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
minced  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and 
one  cupful  of  boiling  milk.  Mix  thoroughly 
^nd    add    1^h|-ee    eggs    well    beaten.    3t;tte^    a 


4a8         t^Q  to  cooli  ve0etable0 

mould,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  fill  with  the 
potato,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour.  Let  stand 
for  ten  minutes  after  taking  out  before  removing 
from  the  mould. 

POTATO  TIMBALES— I 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  wett-seasoned 
mashed  potatoes  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
beaten  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  Fold 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  fill 
buttered  timbale  moulds,  and  bake  standing  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  until  firm. 

POTATO  TIMBALES— II 

Pill  small  timbale  moulds  or  custard  cups, 
wet  in  cold  water,  with  well-seasoned  mashed 
potato,  which  is  not  too  moist.  Turn  out  on  a 
buttered  baking-dish  and  bake  until  brown, 
basting  with  melted  butter. 

POTATO  TIMBALES— III 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  mashed  potatoes, 
one-fourth  cupful  of  cream,  and  three  eggs 
well  beaten.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  grated 
onion,  and  nutmeg.  Press  through  a  sieve. 
Line  the  bottoms  of  small  timbale  moulds 
with  buttered  paper  and  fill  with  the  potato 
mixture.  Put  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water 
and  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Turn  out 
carefully. 


330  Tna80  to  (took  ftotatoed       429 

WHIPPED  POTATOES 

Instead  of  mashing,  whip  boiled  potatoes 
^th  a  fork  until  light  and  dry,  adding  gradually 
a  little  melted  butter  if  desired  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Whip  until  smooth  and  creamy  and  pile 
lightly  and  irregularly  into  a  hot  dish. 

POTATOES  WITH  CHEESE  SAUCE— I 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  a  dozen  large  potatoes. 
Season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  and  beat  in 
enough  milk  to  make  quite  soft.  Put  the 
potatoes  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  heaping 
into  a  mound.  Scoop  out  the  centre  and  rub 
smooth  both  inside  and  out  with  a  knife  dipped 
in  cold  water.  Brush  with  the  beaten  white 
of  an  egg  and  put  into  the  oven.  Melt  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and,  while  hot,  add  to 
it  four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese.  Pour 
this  mixture  slowly  on  the  well-beaten  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  stirring  constantly.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  fill  the  cavity  in  the  potato 
mound  with  the  sauce.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs 
and  brown. 

POTATOES  WITH  CHEESE  SAUCE— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Potatoes  with  Cheese  Sauce — I.  Fill  the  centre 
with  Cream  Sauce  to  which  a  bit  of  soda  has 
been  added  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.    Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 


430  1)0^^  to  Oooh  It)eaeta6le0 

onion-juice,  fill  the  cavity,  sprinkle  with  crumbs 
and  grated  cheese,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

POTATOES  WITH  CHEESE  SAUCE— III 

Boil  and  mash  a  dozen  peeled  potatoes, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  melted  butter. 
Add  enough  milk  to  make  very  soft,  and  beat 
until  very  light.  Heap  into  the  centre  of  a 
baking-dish  and  make  a  hollow  in  the  centre. 
Brush  with  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg  and 
brown  in  the  oven.  Melt  a  cupful  of  butter  and 
stir  in  gradually  five  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  cheese  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
seasoning  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Stir  until 
thick  and  smooth  and  fill  the  hollow  in  the 
potato.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  put  into 
the  oven  for  five  minutes  longer. 

POTATOES  AND  CHEESE 

Peel  and  chop  raw  potatoes  and  cook,  covered, 
very  slowly  in  seasoned  butter.  When  they 
are  soft,  drain  and  put  into  a  baking-dish  in 
layers,  alternating  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 
Pour  over  a  little  melted  butter  and  bake  for 
half  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve  in  the  same 
dish. 

POTATOES  AND  CORN 

Cut  eight  boiled  potatoes  into  dice,  add  the 
com  cut  from  six  ears,  and  reheat  in  butter  or 
drippings,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper. 


336  WUiw  to  Oooit  potatoes       431 

POTATOES  AND  PARSLEY 

Wash  and  peel  small  potatoes,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  cook  for  five  minutes,  and  drain. 
Cover  with  fresh  boiling  water,  add  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  a  lump  of  butter,  and  boil  until  tender. 
Drain,  reserving  the  liquid.  Chop  fine  a  bunch 
of  parsley  and  cook  it  for  five  minutes  in  a  suf- 
ficient quantity  of  the  cooking  liquid.  Pour 
the  sauce  over  the  potatoes  and  serve. 

POTATOES  WITH  SAUCE  PIQUANTE 

Chop  fine  an  onion  and  three  slices  of  bacon. 
Fry  until  the  onion  is  soft.  Add  a  bay-leaf, 
a  teaspoonf  ul  of  sugar,  pepper  and  salt  to  season, 
and  two  cupfuls  of  stock.  Thicken  with  flour 
cooked  in  butter  and  add  a  few  drops  of  vinegar 
or  lemon- juice.  Reheat  sliced  boiled  potatoes 
in  the  sauce,  take  out  the  bay-leaf  and  serve. 

POTATOES  A  L'AMERICAINE 

Slice  boiled  potatoes  and  reheat  with  a  little 
butter,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  to 
season.  Moisten  with  boiling  water,  cook  for 
five  minutes  and  add  three  or  four  tablespoonf uls 
of  butter,  broken  into  small  bits.  Season  with 
minced  parsley  and  serve. 

POTATOES  A  L'ANNA 

Peel  and  cut  lengthwise  into  thin  slices  either 
white    or   sweet   potatoes.      Fasten   the    slices 


433  f>o«?  to  Cooft  Veaeta&(e0 

together  in  the  original  shape  of  the  potatoes 
with  toothpicks  dipped  in  melted  butter. 
Parboil  for  ten  minutes,  then  bake  with  a  roast 
or  separately,  basting  with  the  drippings.  Re- 
move the  toothpicks,  and  serve. 

POTATOES  A  LA  BIGNON 

Boil  a  dozen  large  potatoes,  drain,  cool,  and 
peel.  Scoop  out  the  centre,  fill  with  sausage 
meat,  close  the  opening  with  a  piece  of  potato, 
and  roast,  basting  with  clarified  butter  or  with 
meat  drippings. 

POTATOES  A  LA  BORDELAISB— I 

Cook  together  a  tablespoonf ul  each  of  butter 
and  flour,  add  a  cupful  of  stock,  and  cook  until 
thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  a  bay-leaf,  a 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  onions,  and  half  a  can 
of  chopped  mushrooms.  Simmer  for  ten  minutes, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  kitchen  bouquet,  and  strain. 
Reheat  a  pint  of  boiled  potatoes  in  the 
sauce. 

POTATOES  A  LA  BORDELAISE— II 

Peel  and  slice  thin  small  raw  potatoes.  Soak 
in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour,  dry  carefully, 
and  fry  until  soft.  Drain  and  reheat  with  a 
chopped  onion  and  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
melted  butter.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
minced  parsley,  drain  well,  and  serve. 


330  WxsB  to  CoQik  Dotatoea       433 

POTATOES  BARIGOULE 

Cook  ten  peeled  potatoes  until  tender  in 
stock  to  cover,  and  drain.  Fry  slowly  in  olive- 
oil  until  brown.  Drain,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  vinegar,  and  serve. 

POTATOES  A  LA  BOURGEOISB 

Peel  and  quarter  ten  potatoes,  parboil  for 
twenty  minutes,  drain,  and  cover  with  stock. 
Add  three  sliced  onions,  pepper  and  salt  to 
season,  and  simmer  for  thirty  minutes. 

POTATOES  A  LA  CR^ME 

Chop  fuie  four  boiled  potatoes,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg,  and  add  two- 
thirds  cupful  of  cream.  Put  into  a  baking-dish 
and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes. 

POTATOES  A  LA  CHATEAU 

Peel  and  split  small  potatoes,  or  cut  into 
balls,  fry  in  hot  fat  until  nearly  done,  then 
drain  and  finish  cooking  in  the  oven,  seasoning 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Or,  parboil, 
drain,  and  reheat  in  clarified  butter  until  brown. 
Season  with  minced  parsley  and  fresh  butter. 

POTATOES  A  LA  CHATEAUBRIANDE 

Peel  small  new  potatoes,  parboil  in  salted 
water,  drain,  and  fry  pale  brown  in  clarified 
butter.    Drain  off  the  butter  and  add  a  table- 

98 


434  1>ow  to  Coofi  tDedetablea 

spoonful  or  more  of  butter  broken  into  small 
bits.  Season  with  salt  and  minced  parsley  and 
serve. 

POTATOES  A  LA  DELMONICO— I 

Cut  raw  potatoes  into  balls  with  a  French 
vegetable-cutter,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  cook, 
covered,  in  butter,  shaking  the  pan  to  keep 
from  burning. 

POTATOES  A  LA  DELMONICO— II 

Peel  and  cut  into  small  dice  enough  potatoes 
to  make  a  quart.  Butter  a  deep  baking-dish, 
put  in  a  layer  of  potatoes,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
pepper,  minced  onion,  and  parsley  and  dot  with 
butter.  Repeat  until  the  dish  is  full,  having 
seasoning  on  top.  Add  milk  nearly  to  cover 
and  bake  slowly  for  forty-five  minutes. 

POTATOES  A  LA  DUCHESSE— I 

Add  to  three  cupfuls  of  hot  mashed  potatoes 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  nutmeg  to  season  and  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  four  eggs.  Mix  thoroughly,  shape  into 
balls,  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  brush 
with  beaten  egg,  and  brown  in  a  brisk  oven. 

POTATOES  A  LA  DUCHESSE— II 

Put  hot  boiled  potatoes  through  a  potato-ricer, 
using  enough  to  make  a  pint  and  a  half.  Beat 
in  lightly  with  a  fork  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 


336  VIlai20  to  dooh  Dotatoed       ass 

well  beaten  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a 
tablespoonftil  of  butter  melted,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk  or  cream.  Beat  until  smooth 
and  creamy,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites.  Heat  thoroughly  and  serve,  or  put 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish  and  bake  until 
well  pufEed  and  brown. 

POTATOES  A  LA  DUCHESSB— III 

Put  through  a  potato-ricer  enough  boiled  po- 
tatoes to  make  two  cupfuls.  Add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly  beaten.  With  a 
pastry  bag  and  tube  shape  into  roses  or  nests 
on  a  buttered  tin  sheet.  Brush  with  a  beaten 
^gg  beaten  with  a  teaspoonful  of  cold  water  and 
brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

POTATOES  X  LA  DUCHESSE— IV 

Mix  together  a  pint  of  mashed  potatoes,  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  well  beaten  and  two  tablespoonf  uls 
each  of  melted  butter  and  cream.  Shape  into 
a  flat  cake,  cut  into  squares  and  put  the  squares 
on  a  buttered  baking-pan,  using  a  pancake 
turner.  Sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
and  keep  on  ice  until  ready  to  bake. 

POTATOES  A  LA  DUCHESSE— V 

Mix  together  a  pint  of  mashed  potatoes,  one 
egg  well  beaten,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream 


43^  t>ow  to  Cooft  li)egetab(e0 

or  milk,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  to  season. 
Shape  into  a  flat  cake,  cut  into  squares  or  shape 
into  balls,  brush  with  milk  or  the  beaten  white 
of  egg,  and  bake  until  brown. 

POTATOES  X  LA  FRANCONIA 

Peel  potatoes  of  equal  size,  parboil  for  ten 
minutes,  drain,  and  put  into  the  pan  with  a 
roast.  Bake  for  forty  minutes,  basting  with 
the  drippings.  Or,  put  into  a  baking-pan 
without  meat  and  bake  until  soft,  basting  with 
melted  butter,  drippings,  or  bacon  fat.  The 
parboiling  may  be  omitted. 

POTATOES  X  LA  GENEVOISE 

Peel  and  shred  four  potatoes,  drain  thoroughly, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Butter  small 
tin  moulds,  sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  and  fill  with  alternate  layers  of  potatoes 
and  cheese.  Pour  over  a  little  melted  butter 
and  bake  for  twenty-five  minutes. 

POTATOES  AU  GRATIN— I 

Prepare  Creamed  Potatoes,  cutting  the  po- 
tatoes into  dice.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake 
until  brown.  Grated  cheese  may  be  put  in 
between  layers  of  potatoes  and  on  top.  The 
crumbs  may  be  omitted.  Serve  in  the  same 
dish. 


336  Wxsfi  to  Cooli  |>otatoe6       437 

POTATOES  AU  GRATIN— II 

Prepare  Creamed  Potatoes,  using  enough 
potatoes  to  make  a  pint.  Add  to  the  sauce 
before  mixing  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten. 
Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with 
crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  and  brown  in  the 
oven. 

POTATOES  AU  GRATIN— III 

Cook  together  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
and  one  of  flour,  add  one  cupful  each  of  stock 
and  cream  or  milk,  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring 
constantly.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  four  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese,  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs  well  beaten,  and  salt  and  cayenne  to 
taste.  Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  arrange 
in  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  alternate  layers 
of  the  sauce,  having  sauce  on  top.  Sprinkle 
with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  brown  in  the 
oven. 

POTATOES  X  LA  HANOVER 

Peel  and  slice  potatoes  and  cook  until  tender 
in  stock  nearly  sufficient  to  cover.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  When  the  stock  is  nearly 
absorbed  add  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  a  little  minced  parsley.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  serve. 

POTATOES  X  LA  HARPER 
Cut  a  dozen  boiled  potatoes  into  thin  slices 


438  l>ow  to  Cooft  iDeaetables 

and  reheat  with  enough  white  stock  or  Cream 
Sauce  to  moisten.  Add  two  tablespoofuls  of 
minced  parsley,  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  and 
pepper  and  salt  to  season.  Shake  the  saucepan 
over  the  fire  until  the  potatoes  are  thoroughly 
mixed  with  the  sauce,  then  squeeze  in  the  juice 
of  a  lemon  and  serve. 

POTATOES  A  LA  HOLLANDAISE— I 

Peel  and  cut  into  dice  enough  potatoes  to 
make  three  cupf uls.  Soak  in  cold  water  for  half 
an  hour,  then  cook  until  soft  in  white  stock  to 
cover.  Beat  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  butter  to 
a  cream,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice  and 
salt  and  red  pepper  to  season.  Drain  the  xx>- 
tatoes,  add  the  sauce,  cook  for  three  minutes, 
then  sprinkle  with  minced  parsley  and  serve. 

POTATOES  X  LA  HOLLANDAISB— II 

Melt  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  salt, 
white  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  season  and 
the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Mix  thoroughly,  pour  over 
boiled  and  drained  new  potatoes  or  old  potatoes 
hashed,  and  serve. 

POTATOES  X  L'lTALIENNE 

Beat  together  two  cupfuls  of  mashed  x>otatoes, 
a  tablespoonful  of  cream  or  butter,  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  white  stock,  and  salt, 
pepi>er,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  season.    Put  into 


336  TUlass  to  Cecil  potatoes       439 

a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  thickly  with 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  bake  for  half  an 
hour. 

POTATOES  X  LA   MAItRE   D'HOTEL— I 

Peel  and  slice  eight  boiled  potatoes  and  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  a  cupftd  of  stock.  Simmer  slowly 
for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  stirring  constantly, 
then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  salt, 
pepper,  minced  parsley,  and  lemon-juice  to 
season. 

POTATOES  X  LA  MAItRE  D'H6tEL— II 

Peel  and  boil  new  potatoes  or  cut  old  pota- 
toes into  dice.  Drain,  and  pour  over  a  Mattre 
d*H6tel  Sauce  to  which  the  beaten  yolk  of  an 
egg  may  be  added. 

POTATOES  X  LA  NANTAISE 

Put  well-seasoned  mashed  potatoes  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish,  reserving  four  table- 
spoonfuls.  Mix  the  reserved  potatoes  with  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
a  little  nailk.  Cook  for  two  or  three  minutes, 
take  from  the  fire,  and  beat  the  potatoes  in  the 
baking-dish  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  three  eggs.  Spread  the  cooked  mixture  on 
top,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and 
bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  in  the  baking- 
dish. 


440  1)0W  to  COOft  V€ii€tUblCS 

POTATOES  A  LA  NAVARRAISE 

Peel  large  potatoes,  cut  into  dice,  fry  in  olive- 
oil,  drain,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve. 

POTATOES  A  LA  PARISIENNB— I 

Peel  and  cut  potatoes  into  balls  with  a  French 
vegetable-cutter.  Boil  in  salted  water  o*  steam 
until  tender.  Drain  on  a  cloth  and  fry  brown 
in  deep  fat.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  minced 
parsley  and  serve. 

POTATOES  A  LA  PARISIENNE— II 

Cut  from  peeled  raw  potatoes  enough  balls  to 
make  a  pint.  Parboil  for  ten  minutes  in  salted 
water,  drain,  saut6  in  melted  butter,  and  finish 
cooking  in  the  oven,  seasoning  with  butter  and 
salt  and  sprinkling  with  minced  parsley. 

POTATOES  A  LA  POULETTE 

Peel  and  boil  six  or  eight  potatoes  until  nearly 
done.  Drain,  cool  and  cut  into  thick  slices. 
Cook  together  a  tablespoonf  ul  each  of  butter  and 
flour,  add  a  cupful  of  stock,  and  cook  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  Reheat  the  potatoes  in  the 
sauce,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  minced 
parsley.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  beaten  with  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon- 
juice  and  cold  water.  Heat  until  thick,  but  do 
not  boil,  and  serve. 


336  lEQlai20  to  aooR  |>otatoe0       441 

POTATOES  A  LA  PROVENgALE 

Peel  and  slice  the  potatoes,  wipe  very  dry 
and  saut6  in  oil.  Cook  slowly,  adding  a  little 
minced  garlic  and  onion  towards  the  last. 
Finish  cooking  in  the  oven.  Just  before  serving, 
drain  and  season  with  salt,  minced  parsley,  and 
lemon- jtiice. 

POTATOES  A  LA  RECTOR 

Peel  and  chop  fine  six  raw  potatoes.  Saut^  in 
butter  or  bacon  fat,  seasoning  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Take  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  well  beaten,  sprinkle  with  minced 
parsley,  and  serve  immediately. 

POTATOES  A  LA  ROMA— I 

Mix  together  four  boiled  potatoes  cut  into 
dice,  a  tablespoonf  ul  each  of  minced  onion  and 
parsley,  half  a  cupful  of  milk  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  season.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  and 
spread  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  mixed  with  half 
a  cupful  of  bread  crumbs.  Bake  until  brown  and 
serve  in  the  same  dish. 

POTATOES  A  LA  ROMA— II 

Season  mashed  potatoes  liberally  with  minced 
onion,  parsley,  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg. 
Add  one-fourth  pound  of  grated  cheese,  mix 
thoroughly,  and  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish. 


44a  'bow  to  oood  Ve0etabKC0 

Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  dot 
with  butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

POTATOES  A  LA  ROUENNAISB 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Potatoes  k  la  Duchesse — I,  shape  into  balls, 
dip  in  fritter  batter,  and  fry  brown  in  deep  fat. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  serve. 

POTATOES  A  LA  ROYALE 

Mix  together  one  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes, 
half  a  cupful  of  cream  or  milk,  two  tablespoonf uls 
of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Fold 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  turn 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  smooth  with  a 
knife,  and  brush  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg. 
Bake  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

POTATOES  A  LA  SARANAC 

Cut  peeled  and  sliced  raw  potatoes  into  strips 
and  fry  until  half  done.  Drain,  put  into  a 
shallow  baking-dish  with  a  little  clarified  butter, 
and  finish  cooking.  Season  with  salt,  minced 
parsley,  and  onion-juice. 

POTATOES  A  LA  VIENNE— I 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  eight  potatoes.  Add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  well  beaten,  one  fourth  cupful  of  cream  and 


33e  VtaS^  to  OOOfK  V€tMtOC0  44  •« 

half  a  co]>f  til  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Season 
with  salt  and  'pepper  and  shape  into  rolls  on  a 
ikmred  pastry  board.  Brush  with  beaten  egg 
and  bake  golden  brown, 

POTATOES  A  LA  VIENNB— 11 

Cttt  potato  balls  from  raw  potatoes  and 
parboil  in  salted  water.  Mix  together  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  stale  bread-crumbs,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  grated  cheese,  a  tablespoonful  of  minced 
parsley,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Drain 
the  potatoes,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  the 
cheese  mixture,  and  fry  in  deep  fat, 

POTATOES  A  LA  VIENNB— III 

Peel  and  slice  a  dozen  potatoes  and  put  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish  in  layers,  seasoning  with 
salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  and  grated  cheese. 
Moisten  with  veal  or  chicken  stock,  sprinkle  with 
cheese  and  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
ior  forty  mintttes,  basting  occasionally  with 
stock. 

left-overs 

BROWNED  POTATOES 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  thin  slices  and 
put  into  a  buttered  baking-pan  in  a  hot  oven, 
turning  once. 


444  Dow  to  Cooli  vc§ctnbl€e 

BAKED  MASHED  POTATOES 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  cold  mashed 
potatoes,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
one  cupful  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites,  and  put  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish  and  bake  imtil  well  puffed  and  brown. 

BAKED  CREAMED  POTATOES— I 

Cut  into  dice  two  cupfuls  of  cold  boiled  po- 
tatoes and  put  into  a  shallow  baking-pan  with 
enough  milk  or  cream  to  cover.  Cook  gently 
until  nearly  all  the  liquid  is  absorbed.  Mix 
together  a  tablespoonf ul  of  butter,  a  teaspoonf ul 
each  of  minced  parsley  and  salt,  and  a  pinch  of 
pepper.  Add  a  little  celery  salt  if  desired.  Heat 
thoroughly,  pour  over  the  potatoes,  and  serve. 

BAKED  CREAMED  POTATOES— II 

Peel  and  chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  reheat 
in  milk  or  cream  to  cover,  seasoning  with  salt 
and  pepper.  When  smooth  and  creamy  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter, 
and  bake  until  brown. 

BAKED  HASHED  POTATOES 

Fill  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  cold  cooked 
potatoes,  cut  into  dice,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  broken 


336  TRAaiss  to  (Took  potatoea       445 

into  bits,  and  pour  over  a  cupful  of  warm  milk. 
Sprinkle  with  flour  and  bake,  covered,  for  half 
an  hour,  then  uncover  and  brown. 

POTATO  CAKES— I 

Shape  into  small  flat  cakes  cold  mashed 
potato  and  put  on  a  buttered  pan.  Spread  with 
butter,  bake  for  twenty  minutes,  and  serve.  Or, 
ssL\xt6  in  butter,  drippings,  or  bacon  fat. 

POTATO  CAKES— II 

Shape  cold  well-seasoned  mashed  potatoes 
into  cakes,  dredge  with  flour,  and  fry  brown  in 
lard  or  drippings. 

POTATO  CAKES— III 

Add  two  well-beaten  eggs  to  three  cupfuls  of 
cold  mashed  potatoes.  Beat  thoroughly,  shape 
into  small  flat  cakes,  dredge  with  flour,  and  saut6 
in  butter. 

DELMONICO  CREAM  ROLL 

Mix  together  a  pint  each  of  Cream  Sauce  and 
cold  cooked  chopped  potatoes,  seasoning  with 
salt  and  celery  salt,  or  onion-juice.  Turn  into 
a  buttered  frying-pan  and  cook,  covered,  until 
the  sauce  is  nearlv  absorbed,  fold  like  an  omelet 
and  serve,  but  do  not  allow  the  potatoes  to 
brown. 


44^  f)oiv  to  Cook  De0etabIe0 

POTATO  CROQUETTES 

Season  cold  mashed  potatoes  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  grated  nutmeg.  Beat  to  a  cream, 
allowing  a  teaspoonftil  of  melted  butter  to 
each  cupful  of  potato.  Add  two  or  three  well- 
beaten  eggs  and  a  little  minced  parsley.  Shape 
into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  deep  fat. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES— I 

Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  put  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish  in  layers  alternating  with 
crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.  Have  crumbs  and 
butter  on  top.  Pour  in  a  cupful  or  more  of 
well-seasoned  white  stock  and  bake  for  twenty 
mintues. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES— II 

Slice  enough  cold  boiled  potatoes  to  make  a 
quart.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  minced 
parsley,  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  and 
pour  over  a  cupful  of  White  or  Cream  Sauce. 
Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  tmtil 
brown. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES— III 

Put  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  fine  into  a  but- 
tered baking-dish  with  alternate  layers  of  Cream 
Sauce,  having  sauce  on  top.  Cover  with  crumbs, 
bake  for  twenty  minutes  and  serve  in  the  same 


336  TPOaies  to  Cook  |>otatoe6       447 

dish.  Or  put  the  potatoes  into  the  baking-dish, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  minced  parsley, 
pour  over  the  sauce,  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES  AND  EGGS 

Slice  thinly  four  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  six 
hard-boiled  eggs.  Put  a  layer  of  potatoes 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  cover  with  a  layer  of  eggs,  and 
repeat  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  potatoes  on 
top.  Pour  over  two  cupfuls  of  thin  Cream 
or  White  Sauce,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs, 
and  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  if  desired.  Bake 
until  the  crumbs  are  brown.  Freshly  boiled 
potatoes  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

FRIED  POTATOES— I 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  thin  slices  and 
saut6  in  pork  or  bacon  fat,  turning  once.  Serve 
with  Cream  or  White  Sauce  if  desired. 

FRIED  POTATOES— II 

Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  very  fine,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  in  butter,  or 
drippings,  stirring  constantly. 

FRIED  POTATOES— III 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  slices,  dredge 
with  seasoned  flour,  and  saut6  in  butter,  turning 
once.     They  will  be  very  crisp. 


448  Dow  to  cooft  vcaeubicB 

GERMAN  FRIED  POTATOES 

Slice  cold  boiled  or  baked  potatoes,  and  saut6 
brown  in  butter  or  pork  fat.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  They  will  fry  better  if  they 
are  dredged  with  flour. 

FRIED  POTATO  BALLS 

Cut  balls  from  cold  boiled  potatoes,  using  a 
French  vegetable-cutter.     Brown  in  hot  fat. 

DEVILED  FRIED  POTATOES 

Chop  fine  a  small  onion  and  fry  it  in  butter, 
with  cold  boiled  potatoes,  sliced  thin  or  chopped. 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  dry  mustard, 
and  serve  very  hot. 

POTATOES  SAUTfe— I 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  thin  slices,  and 
saut^  in  butter,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Shape  into  an  oblong  roll,  and  cook  very  slowly 
until  brown.    Take  up  carefully. 

POTATOES  SAUTlS—II 

Peel  and  cut  fine  a  dozen  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
and  fry  brown  in  melted  butter,  seasoning 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Drain,  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  each  of  minced  parsley  and  fresh  melted 
butter,  and  serve. 


336  tmaied  to  Cook  Itetatoed       449 

POTATO  FRITTERS 

Make  a  batter  of  one  cupftil  of  flour,  two- 
thirds  cupful  of  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Cut  cold  boiled 
potatoes  into  thin  slices,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  onion- juice,  dip  in  the  batter,  fry 
in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 

HASHED  POTATOES 

Butter  a  fr3ring-pan  and  put  into  it  cold  boiled 
potatoes,  chopped  fine.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  dot 
with  butter,  and  moisten  with  stock,  or  water. 
Cover,  and  cook  slowly  until  the  liquid  is  nearly 
absorbed.     Do  not  allow  it  to  brown. 

HASHED  BROWNED  POTATOES— I 

Chop  fine  a  very  small  onion,  fry  it  in  butter, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  cook  smooth. 
Add  a  cupful  of  stock  and  cook  imtil  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  a  quart  of  cooked 
potatoes  cut  into  dice  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
season.  Cook  slowly  until  the  sauce  is  nearly 
absorbed,  then  turn  into  a  frying-pan,  in  which 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  is  hissing  hot.  Cook 
slowly  until  brown  on  the  bottom,  and  turn  out 
carefully.    The  onion  may  be  omitted. 

HASHED  BROWNED  POTATOES— II 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  dice,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  thoroughly  with 

39 


450  ibow  to  (took  \l>c§etnb\€0 

enough  melted  butter  to  moisten.  Crowd  them 
together  into  half  of  the  fr)ring-pan,  and  cook 
slowly  for  fifteen  minutes  without  stirring. 
A  little  cream  may  be  added  if  desired.  They 
will  stick  together,  and  can  be  turned  on  a 
platter  like  an  omelet.  Use  more  butter,  if 
necessary.  A  little  onion- juice  or  minced 
parsley  may  be  added  to  the  seasoning. 

HASHED  BROWNED  POTATOES— III 

Chop  fine  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  mix 
thoroughly  with  salt  pork  fat.  Turn  into  a  fry- 
ing-pan, and  cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring 
constantly,  then  cook  slowly  without  stirring, 
until  brown  underneath.  Fold  like  an  omelet, 
and  serve  on  a  hot  platter. 

HASHED  AND  BROWNED  POTATOES  IN 

CREAM  SAUCE 

Cream  together  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
and  two  of  flour.  Add  a  sHce  each  of  onion  and 
carrot,  two  sprigs  of  parsley,  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Add  a  pint  of  milk 
and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Sim- 
mer for  five  minutes.  Season  the  potatoes 
with  salt  and  pepper,  put  into  a  buttered  bak- 
ing-dish, and  strain  the  hot  sauce  over  them. 
Sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  bake 
for  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  in  the  same 
dish. 


330  Wn^  to  Coofi  potatoea       451 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES— I 

Slice  a  small  onion,  and  fry  in  butter.  Add 
three  cold  boiled  potatoes  sliced,  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  until  well  mixed, 
then  let  stand  until  brown  fn  the  under  side. 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  stock  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  or  more  of  minced  parsley  may  be 
added. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES— II 

Fry  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion  in  a 
tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  butter.  Cook 
separately,  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two 
cupfuls  of  sliced  cold  boiled  potatoes.  When 
the  potatoes  have  absorbed  the  butter,  add  the 
onion  and  butter,  and  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
minced  parsley.     Mix  thoroughly,  and  serve. 

POTATO  OMELET 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  small  dice  and 
reheat  in  a  Cream  Sauce,  using  only  enough 
sauce  to  moisten.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
into  a  frying-pan,  and  turn  the  potatoes  into  it. 
Cook  slowly  until  well  browned  on  the  bottom, 
and  turn  out  carefully. 

POTATO  PUFF 

Beat  to  a  cream  two  cupfuls  of  cold  mashed 
potatoes  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with 


453  tyov^  to  Cook  VCQcUibtce 

a  cupful  of  cream  or  milk,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
season.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  pour 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and  bake  until 
well  puffed  and  brown. 

PCtrATO  PUFFS 

Grate  three  cold  boiled  potatoes,  add  a  pinch 
of  salt,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful 
of  minced  parsley,  and  two  eggs  weU  beaten. 
Add  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter  that  will 
drop  from  the  spoon,  sifting  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking-powder  with  the  flour.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  into  deep  fat  and  fry  brown. 

POTATO  RISSOLES 

Mix  a  pint  of  cold  mashed  potatoes  with  two 
well-beaten  eggs,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepi)er. 
Shape  into  small  egg-shaped  balls,  dip  in  cnmibs, 
then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  and  saut^ 
in  smoking  hot  beef  dripping,  or  bacon  fat,  turn- 
ing as  needed.     Drain  and  serve. 

POTATOES  IN  CHICKEN  GRAVY 

Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  fine,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  melted  butter,  and  reheat 
with  enough  chicken  gravy  to  moisten.  Becha- 
mel Sauce,  or  any  other  kind  of  gravy  may  be 
used  instead. 

POTATOES  AND  CABBAGE 

Cut  three  slices  of  salt  pork  into  dice,  fry  crisp, 


336  WUiW  to  doofi  Potatoes        453 

and  reheat  with  it  equal  parts  of  cold  cooked 
cabbage  and  potatoes  cut  fine. 

POTATOES  WITH  WHITE  SAUCE 

Reheat  sliced  cooked  potatoes  in  Cream  Sauce, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg, 
minced  chives,  and  parsley. 

STEWED  POTATOES—I 

Peel  and  slice  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  reheat 
with  nearly  enough  water  to  cover.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Cover  and  cook, 
until  nearly  all  the  liquid  has  been  absorbed, 
then  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  broken 
into  bits,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley. 
Shake  the  pan  until  the  sauce  is  creamy,  and 
serve. 

STEWED  POTATOES— II 

Slice  thin  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  reheat  with 
enough  milk  to  moisten,  adding  pepper,  salt, 
and  minced  parsley  to  season  and  two  or  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Bring  to  the  boil, 
stirring  constantly,  take  from  the  fire,  season 
with  lemon-juice,  and  serve. 

STEWED  POTATOES— III 

Peel  and  cut  into  dice  cold  baked  potatoes, 
and  reheat  in  a  Cream  Sauce. 


454  Dow  to  aoofi  veaetablea 

STEWED  POTATOES— IV 

Cut  into  dice  enough  cold  cooked  potatoes  to 
make  a  quart.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add 
a  pint  of  stock,  and  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Then  add  one  tablespoonf  ul  each  of  butter  and 
minced  parsley,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon- 
juice.  Simmer  for  two  or  three  minutes,  and 
serve. 

STEWED  POTATOES— V 

Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  very  fine  and  sea- 
son with  salt.  Put  into  a  double  boiler  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  enough  milk  to 
reach  to  the  height  of  the  potatoes.  Cover 
and  cook  for  an  hour,  stirring  occasionally. 

STEWED  POTATOES— VI 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  dice,  and  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  milk  to  cover.  Cook 
slowly,  until  the  potatoes  have  absorbed  nearly 
all  the  milk.  To  a  pint  of  potatoes,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  minced 
parsley  to  taste. 

SAVORY  STEW  OF  POTATOES 

Slice  three  onions  into  a  quart  of  milk  and 
simmer  for  twenty  minutes.  Strain  the  milk, 
and  thicken  it  with  a  tablespoonful  each  of 
butter  and  flour,  cooked  together.  Add  a 
tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley,  and  two  cupfuls 


336  WUlw  to  aooft  Potatoes       455 

of  sliced  cold  boiled  potatoes.  Season  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  pour  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs,  and  bake  until  brown. 

SURPRISE  POTATO  BALLS 

Make  cold  mashed  potatoes  into  balls  with  a 
teaspoonf  ul  of  minced,  and  highly  seasoned,  meat 
in  the  centre  of  each  one.  Dip  the  balls  in 
melted  butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

POTATOES  X  LA  BOURGEOISE 

Peel  and  chop  cold  boiled  potatoes,  season 
with  salt,  add  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  and  enough  cream  to  moisten,  bring  to 
the  boil,  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve. 

POTATOES  A  LA  BRETONNE 

Peel,  and  cut  into  dice,  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
and  reheat  in  melted  butter  with  two  chopped 
onions,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  When 
slightly  brown,  drain  off  the  butter,  and  add  half 
a  cupful  or  more  of  beef  gravy  and  enough  stock 
to  moisten.  Bring  to  the  boil,  season  with 
minced  parsley,  and  serve. 

POTATOES  A  LA  CRfeMB 

Cut  into  thin  slices  enough  cold  boiled  potatoes 
to  make  a  pint.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  each  of 
butter  and  lemon-juice,  and  pepper  and  grated 


456  Dow  to  CoolK  Ve0etabIe0 

nutmeg  to  season.  Pour  over  half  a  cupful  of 
cream  or  a  thin  Cream  Sauce,  cover  the  pan,  and 
shake  over  the  fire  for  eight  or  ten  minutes. 

POTATOES  X  LA  COLBERT 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  dice,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  in 
Espagnole  Sauce.  Add  a  little  water  if  the  sauce 
is  too  thick.  Add  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  season  with  minced  parsley,  and  serve. 

POTATOES  A  LA  DUCHESSE 

Grate  five  cold  cooked  potatoes.  Sift  together 
five  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  pinch  of  baking-powder.  Mix  with  the 
potatoes  and  add  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  two 
well-beaten  eggs.  Mix  thoroughly,  drop  by 
spoonfuls  into  deep  fat,  and  fry  brown. 

POTATOES  A  L'EMPRESS 

Chop  coarsely  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  put  into 
a  baking-dish.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
dots  of  butter.  Fill  with  milk  or  cream  and 
let  stand  for  two  or  three  hours.  Put  the 
dish  into  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  the  oven.  Heat 
thoroughly,  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. 

POTATOES  A  LA  LONDON 

Saut^  thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  until 
brown  and  put  on  eaph  sUco  a  thin  slice  of  hard- 


336  WtiW  to  Cooft  potatoes       457 

boiled  egg.  Pour  over  a  sauce  made  of  a  cupful 
of  water  and  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  flour,  cooked 
in  butter,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  vinegar, 
and  minced  parsley. 

POTATOES  A  LA  PRINCESS 

Pack  cold  well-seasoned  mashed  potatoes  into 
a  shallow  buttered  pan  and  cut  into  strips.  Dip 
in  melted  butter,  then  into  beaten  egg,  and 
brown  in  the  oven.  Or,  dip  in  egg  and  sprinkle 
with  crumbs  or  grated  cheese. 

POTATOES  A  LA  PROVENCE 

Slice  six  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  fry  four 
sliced  onions  in  butter.  Mix  with  one  cupful 
of  milk,  one  egg  well  beaten,  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley. 
Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  add  enough 
milk  nearly  to  cover,  sprinkle  with  crumbs, 
minced  parsley,  and  grated  nutmeg,  and  bake 
until  brown. 


SIXTY-THREE  WAYS  TO  COOK 
SWEET  POTATOES 

BOILED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Clean  thoroughly,  cover  with  boiling  water,  to 
which  a  little  salt  may  be  added,  boil  until  soft, 
drain,  peel,  and  serve.  They  may  be  peeled 
before  boiling.  Or,  cover  with  hot  water,  boil 
until  done,  dry  in  the  oven,  and  peel  just  before 
serving. 

BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES— I 

Split  lengthwise  and  steam  or  boil  until  nearly 
done.  Drain  and  put  into  a  baking-dish,  flat 
side  down,  seasoning  each  one  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  sugar.  Dot  with  butter  and  bake  brown, 
basting  with  butter,  or  wash  and  trim  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  soft.  They  may  be  par- 
boiled before  baking.     Serve  in  the  skins. 

BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES— II 

Boil,  peel  and  slice  lengthwise  three  large  sweet 
potatoes.  Arrange  in  layers  in  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  sugar 
and   bits  of  butter.     Have   sugar   and   butter 

458 


63  Wnw  to  Cooft  Sweet  ^tatoes    459 

on  top,  and  bake  until  brown.  Or,  sprinkle  each 
layer  with  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.  Half  a 
cupful  of  boiling  water  may  be  added  if  the 
potatoes  are  too  dry,  and  the  butter  may  be 
omitted. 

MASHED  BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Bake  until  soft,  peel,  and  mash.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter  and  beat  until  light. 
Serve  immediately. 

STUFFED  BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Cut  baked  sweet  potatoes  into  halves  length- 
wise, scoop  out  the  centre  and  mash  fine.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  onion- juice,  mace,  and 
minced  parsley.  Fill  the  shells,  brush  with 
beaten  egg,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

BROWNED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Boil  sweet  potatoes  until  soft  in  salted  water 
to  cover.  Drain  and  mash,  seasoning  with 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Put  into  a  serving- 
dish,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  until  brown. 

BUTTERED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Slice  or  quarter  peeled  and  boiled  sweet  po- 
tatoes and  spread  each  piece  thickly  with  butter. 
Put  into  the  oven  until  the  butter  is  melted  and 
sizzling  hot. 


46o  l)ow  to  Cooft  !t>e0etable0 

BROILED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Peel  steamed  sweet  potatoes  and  slice  half  an 
inch  thick.  Dip  in  seasoned  melted  butter  and 
broil.     Raw  potatoes  may  be  used. 

SWEET  POTATO  BALLS 

Mix  together  two  cupf  uls  of  hot  mashed  sweet 
potatoes,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  to  season,  and  one  egg  well  beaten. 
Shape  into  small  balls,  dredge  with  flour  or  dip 
in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  If  the 
potatoes  are  very  dry  they  may  b«  moistened 
with  milk. 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Mashed  Baked  Sweet  Potatoes.  Shape  into 
croquettes,  dip  ill  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat. 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES— II 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  hot  mashed 
sweet  potato,  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and 
milk  or  cream,  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cool,  shape 
into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs  or  in  egg 
only,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Or,  use  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  and  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
butter  and  minced  parsley,  seasoning  with  salt 
and  grated  nutmeg. 


63  WntB  to  (tooft  Svocct  potatoe0    461 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES— III 

Mix  one  pint  of  mashed  sweet  potatoes  with 
one-half  cupful  of  boiling  milk.  Add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  one  egg 
well  beaten.  Cool,  shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in 
Ggg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  They  may 
be  prepared  according  to  directions  given  for 
almost  any  Potato  Croquettes. 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES— IV 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  mashed  sweet 
potatoes,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one 
tablespoonftd  of  cream,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
and  salt  and  sugar  to  season.  Cool,  shape  into 
croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat.     Serve  with  Velout^  Sauce. 

SWEET  POTATO  AND  CHESTNUT 
CROQUETTES 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  mashed  sweet 
potato,  and  one  cupful  of  chopped  cooked 
chestnuts.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
butter  and  cream,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and 
pepper  and  salt  to  season.  Cool,  shape  into 
croquettes,  and  keep  on  ice  until  ready  to  fry  in 
deep  fat. 

SWEET  POTATO  AND  ALMOND  CRO- 
QUETTES 

Bake  sweet  potatoes,  split  and  scrape  out  the 


463  1)0W  to  QOOk  X)CQCUb\CB 

pulp,  using  enough  potatoes  to  make  a  pint. 
Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one  egg  well  beaten  and  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  blanched  almonds,  chopped  fine  and 
pounded  smooth .  Add  enough  hot  milk  or  cream 
to  make  a  stiff  paste.  Cool,  shape  into  cro- 
quettes, dip  in  egg  and  cnmibs  and  fry  in  deep 
fat. 

CREAMED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Boil,  peel,  and  mash  sweet  potatoes  and  put 
through  a  sieve.  Beat  to  a  cream  with  hot  milk, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Povir 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  cover,  and  bake 
until  it  begins  to  brown,  then  uncover,  brush 
with  beaten  egg^  and  bake  to  a  glaze.  Serve 
immediately. 

SWEET  POTATO  CONES 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  four  sweet  potatoes,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  a  tablespoonful 
each  of  butter  and  milk.  Shape  into  cones,  place 
carefully  in  a  buttered  pan,  brush  with  beaten 
egg»  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

SWEET  POTATOES  IN  CASSEROLE 

Put  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  butter  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  into  a  casserole.  When 
hissing  hot  cover  with  peeled  sweet  potatoes,  cut 
into  thin  slices  lengthwise.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  cover  with  another  layer  of  potatoes. 


63  Winxifi  to  Coofc  Sweet  potatoe0    463 

Moisten  with  boiling  water,  cover,  and  cook  until 
nearly  done,  then  uncover  and  brown.  Serve 
in  the  casserole. 

CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES— I 

Peel  and  slice  lengthwise  four  large  sweet 
potatoes.  Put  into  a  covered  saucepan  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  season, 
and  enough  water  to  moisten.  Steam  until 
tender,  drain,  and  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish. 
Pour  over  one  cupful  of  New  Orleans  molasses 
and  bake  until  the  molasses  candies  on  the 
potatoes.     Serve  in  the  same  dish. 

CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES— II 

Boil  four  large  sweet  potatoes,  drain,  peel,  and 
slice  lengthwise.  Put  half  the  potatoes  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish  and  sprinkle  with  brown 
sugar,  cinnamon,  and  bits  of  butter.  Put  in  the 
rest  of  the  potatoes,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
cinnamon,  and  dot  liberally  with  butter.  Pour 
over  half  a  cupful  of  water  and  bake  tmtil  brown. 
Serve  in  the  same  dish. 

ESCALLOPED  SWEET  POTATOES— I 

Boil  sweet  potatoes,  then  peel  and  cut  into 
half-inch  slices.  Put  a  layer  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  dredge  with  a  pinch  of  flour,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  cover  with  small 
liamps  of  butter.      Repeat,  pour  over  enough 


464  f)ow  to  (look  Vegetables 

water  or  stock  to  moisten,  and  bake  for  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes. 

ESCALLOPED  SWEET  POTATOES— II 

Steam  until  tender,  peel  and  slice  and  put  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish  in  layers,  sprinkling 
each  layer  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and 
bits  of  butter.  Pour  over  a  cupful  of  cream  or 
milk  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

ESCALLOPED  SWEET  POTATOES— III 

Peel  and  slice  thin.  Put  a  layer  of  potatoes  in 
a  shallow  buttered  baking-dish  and  season  with 
salt,  sugar,  and  dots  of  butter.  Repeat  until  the 
dish  is  full,  having  sugar  and  butter  on  top. 
Add  water  or  milk  nearly  to  cover  and  bake  very 
slowly  tmtil  done. 

ESCALLOPED  SWEET  POTATOES— IV 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  sweet  potatoes,  season 
to  taste,  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle 
with  crtmibs  and  sugar,  and  bake  for  fifteen 
minutes. 

ESCALLOPED  SWEET  POTATOES— V 

Peel  and  slice  raw  potatoes  very  thin.  Put  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish  in  layers,  seasoning  each 
layer  with  salt,  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter,  and 
sprinkhng  with  flour.  Pour  over  enough  milk 
to  moisten,  and  bake  for  forty  minutes. 


63  Wafie  to  Cooft  Sweet  |>otatoe0    465 

ESCALLOPED  SWEET  POTATOES  WITH 

BACON 

Slice  cooked  sweet  potatoes  and  put  into  a 
baking-dish  in  layers,  alternating  with  chopped 
bacon.  Cover  with  crumbs,  moisten  with  milk 
or  water,  and  bake,  covered,  for  half  an  hour, 
then  uncover  and  brown. 

ESCALLOPED  WHITE  AND  SWEET 
POTATOES 

Put  mashed  and  seasoned  white  and  sweet 
potatoes  into  alternate  layers  in  a  buttered 
baking-dish.  Score  the  top  deeply,  pour  over 
melted  butter,  and  bake  brown. 

PRIED  SWEET  POTATOES— I 

Cut  boiled  sweet  potatoes  into  slices  lengthwise 
and  saut^  in  seasoned  butter  or  drippings  or 
pork  fat.    Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar. 

FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES— II 

Peel  and  slice  sweet  potatoes,  making  the 
slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Fry  slowly 
until  soft,  then  drain,  plunge  into  boiling  fat, 
and  cook  until  brown. 

FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES— III 

Boil  sweet  potatoes  until  nearly  done,  drain, 
cool,  peel,  and  cut  into  quarters.  Dredge  with 
seasoned  flour  and  fry  brown  in  fat  to  cover. 

30 


466  1)0W  to  Coofi  V^CQCtnblCS 

FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES— IV 

Peel  and  slice  large  sweet  potatoes  and  soak 
for  half  an  hour  in  salted  water.  Saut^  in  hot 
lard.  Boiled  sweet  potatoes  can  be  used  the 
same  way.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  before  serving. 
Equal  quantities  of  white  and  sweet  potatoes 
may  be  used, 

FRENCH  FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Boil  sweet  potatoes  until  nearly  done,  drain, 
peel,  and  cut  lengthwise.  Put  into  a  frying- 
basket  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  and  serve.  Raw  potatoes  may  be 
used  if  cooked  very  slowly. 

SWEET  POTATO  FRITTERS 

Rub  through  a  colander  boiled  sweet  potatoes 
to  make  two  cupfuls.  Add  one  teaspoonftd 
of  melted  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
cream  and  flour,  and  three  eggs  well  beaten. 
Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  deep  fat  and  fry  brown. 
Or,  shape  into  small  flat  cakes,  dredge  with  flour, 
and  fry  brown  in  butter  or  dip  in  molasses  then 
in  flour  and  fry.  For  the  sauce,  cream  together 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  two  of  sugar. 
Pour  over  half  a  cupful  of  Claret  brought  to  the 
boil  with  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg.  Cook  in  a 
double  boiler  until  foamy  and  serve  immediately. 
The  sauce  is  poured  over  each  fritter  as  it  is 
served.  If  dipped  in  molasses,  they  will  require 
no  sauce. 


63  TRaai^  to  CooR  Sweet  potatoes    467 

SWEET  POTATOES  AND  APPLES 

Peel  and  slice  boiled  sweet  potatoes  and  put 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish  in  layers,  alternating 
with  a  layer  of  strained  apple-sauce.  Sprinkle 
each  layer  of  potatoes  with  a  little  sugar  and 
dot  with  butter.  Repeat  until  the  dish  is  full, 
having  potatoes,  sugar,  and  butter  on  top. 
Bake  for  an  hour  or  more  and  serve  very  hot  in 
the  same  dish. 

GLAZED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Wash  and  peel  half  a  dozen  sweet  potatoes, 
and  parboil  in  salted  water.  Drain,  split 
lengthwise,  and  put  into  a  buttered  pan.  Make 
a  S3rrup  of  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water.  Add  a  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  or  more  if  desired,  and  baste  the 
potatoes  with  the  syrup.  Bake  for  fifteen 
minutes,  basting  two  or  three  times. 

MASHED  SWEET  POTATOES— I 

Boil,  drain,  and  mash  the  potatoes,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  add  enough  hot 
milk  to  moisten.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  brush  with  beaten  egg,  and  brown  in  the 
oven.  Tomato  Sauce  may  be  served  with  it. 
Or,  omit  the  egg  and  serve  with  a  border  of 
chops. 

MASHED  SWEET  POTATOES—II 
Boil  sweet  potatoes  until  soft  in  boiling  salted 


46S  flow  to  Cook  I^e0etai>le0 

water  to  cover.  Drain,  peel,  and  put  through 
a  potato-ricer.  Season  liberally  with  butter, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  and  moisten  with  boiling  milk 
or  cream.     Beat  until  light  and  serve. 

PUR^E  OF  SWEET  POTATOES 

Boil,  peel,  and  mash  five  sweet  potatoes.  Mix 
with  two  eggs  well  beaten,  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  brown 
sugar,  a  pinch  of  cinnamon,  and  enough  milk 
to  moisten.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish 
and  bake  until  brown. 

SWEET  POTATO  PATTIES 

Mix  together  one  pint  of  boiled,  mashed  sweet 
potatoes,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoohfuls  of  flour, 
and  enough  milk  to  make  a  batter  that  will  drop 
from  the  spoon.  Fry  by  spoonfuls  on  a  griddle, 
turning  once. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUFF 

Beat  together  two  cupfuls  of  mashed  sweet 
potatoes,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cupful  of  milk,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  hard  and  bake 
in  a  buttered  baking-dish. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUFFS 

Steam,  peel,  and  mash  six  potatoes,  adding  a 
pinch  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and 


63  TIQlas0  to  Cooft  Sweet  ^tatoe^    469 

one  of  sugar.  Fill  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
brush  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

ROASTED  SWEET  POTATOES— I 

Peel  sweet  potatoes  of  equal  size  and  put  into 
the  pan  with  a  roast  or  fowl  an  hour  before 
taking  up.  Split  if  too  large.  Baste  with  the 
drippings.  They  may  be  parboiled  before 
baking. 

ROASTED  SWEET  POTATOES— II 

Parboil,  then  bake  until  done.  Or,  boil  until 
nearly  done,  then  peel  and  bake  brown,  basting 
several  times  with  seasoned  melted  butter. 

STEAMED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Peel  the  potatoes  and  steam  until  done,  then 
put  into  a  serving-dish  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
season  and  a  few  bits  of  butter.  Serve  as  soon  as 
the  butter  is  melted. 

SWEET  POTATO  SOUFFLl^ 

Cook  together  three  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
butter  and  flour,  then  add  half  a  cupful  of  boiling 
milk  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Mix  with  half  a  cupful  of  mashed  boiled  sweet 
potatoes  and  add  sugar  to  taste.  Season  with 
salt  and  powdered  cinnamon  and  add  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs  well  beaten.     Fold  in  the  stiffly 


470  t)ow  to  cooft  vcgctablce 

beaten  white  and  bake  until  well  puflEed  and 
brown.  Pour  over  a  tablespoonful  of  Sherry 
and  serve. 

SOUTHERN  SWEET  POTATOES 

Steam  until  done,  then  peel  and  cut  into  thin 
slices.  Boil  together  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  and 
one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  water,  until  it  is  a 
thick  sjrrup.  Take  from  the  fire  and  stir  into 
it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Put  a  layer 
of  potatoes  into  a  deep  baking-dish,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  cinnamon  or  nutmeg,  then  add  an- 
other layer  of  potatoes  and  seasoning.  When  the 
dish  is  nearly  full,  pour  in  the  syrup,  dot  with 
butter  and  bake  very  slowly  for  an  hour  or  more, 
basting  frequently  with  the  syrup.  Serve  in  the 
baking-dish. 

STEWED  SWEET  POTATOES— I 

Peel  and  split  six  sweet  potatoes.  Put  into  a 
saucepan,  with  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one  cupful  of  water  and  pepper  and  salt  to  season. 
Cook,  covered,  until  the  water  is  evaporated, 
then  uncover  and  brown. 

STEWED  SWEET  POTATOES— II 

Peel,  cut  into  dice,  and  soak  in  cold  water  for 
half  an  hour  enough  raw  sweet  potatoes  to  make 
a  quart.  Cover  with  boiling  salted  water  and 
cook  until  they  begin  to  break  in  pieces.  Drain 
off  half  the  water,  add  a  cupful  of  milk  and  bring 


63  WiwsB  to  Cooft  Sxocct  ^tatoed    471 

to  the  boil.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  minced 
parsley  to  season.  Cook  until  smooth  and  thick, 
and  serve.  White  potatoes  may  be  cooked  in 
the  same  way. 

SWEET  POTATO  SHELLS 

Split  baked  sweet  potatoes  lengthwise  and 
press  the  pulp  through  a  potato-ricer.  Beat 
until  smooth,  seasoning  with  salt,  butter,  and 
cream.  Fill  the  shells,  using  a  pastry  bag  and 
star  tube.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  powdered 
cinnamon,  reheat,  and  serve. 

SWEET  POTATOES  X  L' ALABAMA 

Peel  and  quarter  four  boiled,  sweet  potatoes. 
Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  a  large 
lump  of  butter  on  each  one.  Sprinkle  with 
brown  sugar,  add  enough  water  to  keep  from 
burning  and  a  little  lemon- juice.  Bake  until 
brown,  basting  occasionally. 

SWEET  POTATOES  X  LA  CAROLINA 

Boil  small  sweet  potatoes,  peel  and  put  into  a 
vegetable  dish.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  pour  over 
melted  butter,  and  serve. 

SWEET  POTATOES  X  LA  CREOLE 

Peel  and  split  six  sweet  potatoes  and  put  into 
a  baking-dish,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and 


47^  l>ow  to  dooR  Ve0etable0 

bits  of  batter.  Mix  half  a  cupful  of  crumbs  witb 
one  egg  well  beaten,  spread  over  the  potatoes, 
cover  with  milk,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  an  hour. 

SWEET  POTATOES  AU  GRATIN 

Parboil,  peel,  and  slice  sweet  potatoes,  and  put 
a  layer  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  seasoning  with 
salt,  sugar,  pepper,  and  dots  of  butter.  Sprinkle 
with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  repeat  until 
the  dish  is  full,  having  crumbs  and  butter  on  top. 
Moisten  with  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
water  and  bake,  covered,  for  half  an  hour,  then 
uncover  and  brown.  Or,  prepare  according  to 
directions  given  for  Potatoes  au  Gratin,  using 
sweet  potatoes. 

SWEET  POTATOES  X  LA  RICHMOND 

Peel  and  parboil  small  sweet  potatoes,  drain 
and  bake  brown,  basting  with  melted  butter. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  minced  parsley  and  serve. 

SWEET  POTATOES  WARMED  OVER— I 

Chop  fine  half  of  a  small  onion  and  fry  it  in 
butter  with  enough  sliced  cold  boiled  sweet 
potatoes  to  make  a  pint.  When  the  potatoes 
are  brown  skim  out  and  cook  a  tablespoonf ul  of 
flour  in  the  same  fat.  Add  a  cupful  of  stock  and 
cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly,  and  season- 
ing with  salt  and  pepper.    Take  from  the  fire,  add 


63  TOOlitfi0  to  Coolt  Sweet  |>otatoe0    473 

the  jroJk  of  an  egg  well  beaten,  pour  over  the 
potatoes,  and  serve. 

SWEET  POTATOES  WARMED  OVER— II 

Cut  in  slices  and  reheat  in  milk,  seasoning 
with  butter  and  salt,  or  saut^  in  butter.  Or,  cut 
cold  baked  sweet  potatoes  into  thin  slices  and  put 
into  an  earthen  dish,  spreading  each  layer  with 
butter  and  sprinkling  with  sugar.  Put  plenty 
of  butter  and  sugar  on  the  top  and  bake  until 
brown.    Add  water  to  moisten  if  necessary. 

BAKED  MASHED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Peel  and  mash  four  cold  baked  sweet  potatoes. 
Mash  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
one-fourth  cupful  each  of  butter  and  cream  and 
beat  until  creamy.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  and  bake  until  brown. 

GLAZED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Cut  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  into  slices  an 
inch  thick  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Dip  in  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and 
bake  for  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes.  Moisten 
with  water  if  necessary. 

ESCALLOPED  SWEET  POTATOES— I 

Slice  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  and  spread  out 
on  a  shallow  buttered  pan.  Bake  for  forty 
minutes,  basting  with  melted  butter  and  hot 


474  f>ow  to  Ooolt  tt^egetat^les 

water  to  which  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  may  be 
added. 

ESCALLOPED  SWEET  POTATOES— II 

Peel  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  and  put  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish  in  layers,  seasoning  each 
layer  with  butter,  sugar,  and  salt,  Put  a  liberal 
amount  of  butter  on  top.  Add  enough  water 
to  moisten,  cover,  and  bake  until  thoroughly 
heated.  Take  off  the  cover,  brown,  pour  a  little 
Sherry  over  the  top,  and  serve. 

FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES— I 

Cut  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  into  inch  slices, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  brown  in 
salt  pork  fat,  turning  once. 

FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES— II 

Chop  fine  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  and  saut^ 
in  butter  or  drippings.  An  equal  quantity 
of  boiled  white  potatoes  may  be  chopped  and 
cooked  with  them. 

SWEET  POTATOES  SAUT6 

Slice  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  in  thin  slices 
and  fry  in  butter,  seasoning  with  salt.  Drain, 
sprinkle  with  minced  parsley,  and  serve. 


NINETY  WAYS  TO  COOK  RICE 

BOILED  RICE— I 

Wash  one  cupful  of  rice  in  several  waters,  rub- 
bing well  with  the  hands.  Drain,  dry  on  a  cloth, 
and  boil  for  ten  minutes  in  two  quarts  of  boiling 
salted  water.  Drain,  nearly  cover  with  hot 
milk,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  covered,  in  a 
double  boiler.  Remove  the  cover  and  dry,  toss- 
ing with  a  fork  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape. 

BOILED  RICE— II 

Wash  the  rice  in  several  waters,  rubbing  well 
with  the  hands.  Dry  thoroughly  with  a  cloth, 
sprinkle  very  slowly  into  a  kettle  of  salted  water 
at  a  galloping  boil  and  cook  steadily  for  twenty 
minutes.  Drain  and  dry  for  a  few  moments  in 
the  oven.     Every  grain  will  be  separate. 

BOILED  RICE— III 

Put  one  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  into  a 
kettle  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quart  of 
cold  water.  Boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  drain,  rinse 
in  warm  water,  drain  again,  put  into  a  double 
boiler  without  liquid,  and  cook,  covered,  for  an 
hour.  Or,  use  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  cold 
water  and  let  it  simmer  for  an  hour  and  a  half. 

475 


476  Dow  to  doolK  Veoetablea 

Then  add  one  cupful  of  milk,  mix  thoroughly, 
and  cook  for  an  hour  longer. 

BOILED  RICE— IV 

Cover  the  rice  with  cold  water,  bring  to  the 
boil,  cook  for  five  minutes,  drain,  rinse  in  cold 
water,  and  cook  in  plenty  of  boiling  salted  water, 
then  drain  and  dry.  The  Japanese  cook  rice 
in  a  covered  saucepan  with  four  times  its  bulk 
of  water. 

BOILED  RICE— V 

Cover  a  cupful  of  rice  with  a  quart  of  cold 
water,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Drain,  put  into  a  double  boiler  with 
two  cupfuls  of  cold  milk,  and  cook,  covered,  until 
the  milk  is  absorbed. 

BOILED  RICE— VI 

Put  half  a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  into  a 
double  boiler  with  a  pint  of  cold  water.  Let 
stand  for  half  an  hour,  then  boil  until  nearly 
dry.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  cupful  of  hot 
milk,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  milk 
is  absorbed.  Uncover  to  dry  a  little  before 
serving. 

BROILED  RICE 

Mix  two  cupfuls  of  boiled  rice  with  a  beaten 
egg  and  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  thick  Cream  Sauce, 


Vlinets  Tiniaiee  to  cook  Mce        477 

seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  onion-juice. 
Put  into  a  shallow  buttered  dish,  cool  under  a 
weight,  cut  into  squares,  and  broil. 

BUTTERED  RICE— I 

Boil  a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice,  according  to 
directions  previously  given,  adding  the  juice  of 
a  lemon  to  the  water.  Drain,  put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  moisten  thoroughly  with  clarified 
butter,  cover,  and  put  into  a  moderate  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.  Or,  saut^  boiled  rice  in  butter, 
keeping  the  grains  separate.  A  little  minced 
onion  may  be  fried  with  it. 

BUTTERED  RICE— II 

Reheat  boiled  rice  in  melted  butter,  season 
highly  with  salt  and  paprika,  and  serve.  Add 
minced  parsley  or  chives  if  desired. 

BUTTERED  RICE— III 

Cover  half  a  pound  of  rice  with  cold  salted 
water,  bring  to  the  boil,  cook  for  five  minutes, 
drain,  rinse  with  cold  water,  drain  again,  cover 
with  a  cloth,  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  until 
swollen  and  soft.  Melt  and  skim  a  cupful  of 
butter,  pour  over  the  rice,  and  serve. 

RICE  BORDER— I 

Boil  a  cupful  of  rice  in  chicken  stock,  drain, 
mix  with  a  beaten  egg  and  two  tablespoonf  uls  of 


468  f)OW  to  Cooft  \OCQCtab\eB 

water  to  cover.  Drain,  peel,  and  put  through 
a  potato-ricer.  Season  liberally  with  butter, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  and  moisten  with  boiling  milk 
or  cream.     Beat  tmtil  light  and  serve. 

PUR^E  OF  SWEET  POTATOES 

Boil,  peel,  and  mash  five  sweet  potatoes.  Mix 
with  two  eggs  well  beaten,  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  brown 
sugar,  a  pinch  of  cinnamon,  and  enough  milk 
to  moisten.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish 
and  bake  until  brown. 

SWEET  POTATO  PATTIES 

Mix  together  one  pint  of  boiled,  mashed  sweet 
potatoes,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoohfuls  of  flour, 
and  enough  milk  to  make  a  batter  that  will  drop 
from  the  spoon.  Fry  by  spoonfuls  on  a  griddle, 
turning  once. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUFF 

Beat  together  two  cupfuls  of  mashed  sweet 
potatoes,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cupful  of  milk,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  hard  and  bake 
in  a  buttered  baking-dish. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUFFS 

Steam,  peel,  and  mash  six  potatoes,  adding  a 
pinch  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and 


63  Tniai20  to  Cook  Sweet  potatoea    469 

one  of  sugar.  Fill  a  buttered  baking-disli, 
brush  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

ROASTED  SWEET  POTATOES— I 

Peel  sweet  potatoes  of  equal  size  and  put  into 
the  pan  with  a  roast  or  fowl  an  hour  before 
taking  up.  Split  if  too  large.  Baste  with  the 
drippings.  They  may  be  parboiled  before 
baking. 

ROASTED  SWEET  POTATOES— II 

Parboil,  then  bake  vintil  done.  Or,  boil  until 
nearly  done,  then  peel  and  bake  brown,  basting 
several  times  with  seasoned  melted  butter. 

STEAMED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Peel  the  potatoes  and  steam  until  done,  then 
put  into  a  serving-dish  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
season  and  a  few  bits  of  butter.  Serve  as  soon  as 
the  butter  is  melted. 

SWEET  POTATO  SOUFFLlfi 

Cook  together  three  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
butter  and  flour,  then  add  half  a  cupful  of  boiling 
milk  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Mix  with  half  a  cupful  of  mashed  boiled  sweet 
potatoes  and  add  sugar  to  taste.  Season  with 
salt  and  powdered  cinnamon  and  add  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs  well  beaten.     Fold  in  the  stiffly 


470  l>ow  to  Cooft  VcgcUb\€9 

beaten  white  and  bake  until  well  puffed  and 
brown.  Pour  over  a  tablespoonful  of  Sherry 
and  serve. 

SOUTHERN  SWEET  POTATOES 

Steam  until  done,  then  peel  and  cut  into  thin 
slices.  Boil  together  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  and 
one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  water,  until  it  is  a 
thick  sjnup.  Take  from  the  fire  and  stir  into 
it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Put  a  layer 
of  potatoes  into  a  deep  baking-dish,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  cinnamon  or  nutmeg,  then  add  an- 
other layer  of  potatoes  and  seasoning.  When  the 
dish  is  nearly  full,  pour  in  the  syrup,  dot  with 
butter  and  bake  very  slowly  for  an  hour  or  more, 
basting  frequently  with  the  syrup.  Serve  in  the 
baking-dish. 

STEWED  SWEET  POTATOES— I 

Peel  and  split  six  sweet  potatoes.  Put  into  a 
saucepan,  with  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one  cupful  of  water  and  pepper  and  salt  to  season. 
Cook,  covered,  tmtil  the  water  is  evaporated, 
then  uncover  and  brown. 

STEWED  SWEET  POTATOES— II 

Peel,  cut  into  dice,  and  soak  in  cold  water  for 
half  an  hour  enough  raw  sweet  potatoes  to  make 
a  quart.  Cover  with  boiling  salted  water  and 
cook  until  they  begin  to  break  in  pieces.  Drain 
off  half  the  water,  add  a  cupful  of  milk  and  bring 


03  Wiws9  to  Coofi  Svpeet  |>otatoe0    471 

to  the  boil.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  minced 
parsley  to  season.  Cook  until  smooth  and  thick, 
and  serve.  White  x>otatoes  may  be  cooked  in 
the  same  way. 

SWEET  POTATO  SHELLS 

Split  baked  sweet  potatoes  lengthwise  and 
press  the  pulp  through  a  potato-ricer.  Beat 
until  smooth,  seasoning  with  salt,  butter,  and 
cream.  Fill  the  shells,  using  a  pastry  bag  and 
star  tube.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  powdered 
cinnamon,  reheat,  and  serve. 

SWEET  POTATOES  X  L' ALABAMA 

Peel  and  quarter  four  boiled,  sweet  potatoes. 
Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  a  large 
lump  of  butter  on  each  one.  Sprinkle  with 
brown  sugar,  add  enough  water  to  keep  from 
burning  and  a  little  lemon- juice.  Bake  until 
brown,  basting  occasionally. 

SWEET  POTATOES  X  LA  CAROLINA 

Boil  small  sweet  potatoes,  peel  and  put  into  a 
vegetable  dish.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  pour  over 
melted  butter,  and  serve. 

SWEET  POTATOES  X  LA  CREOLE 

Peel  and  split  six  sweet  potatoes  and  put  into 
a  baking-dish,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and 


473  1>0W  to  OOOlt  V€§CM>lt6 

bits  of  butter.  Mix  half  a  cupful  of  crumbs  with 
one  egg  well  beaten,  spread  over  the  potatoes, 
cover  with  milk,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  an  hour. 

SWEET  POTATOES  AU  GRATIN 

Parboil,  peel,  and  slice  sweet  potatoes,  and  put 
a  layer  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  seasoning  with 
salt,  sugar,  pepper,  and  dots  of  butter.  Sprinkle 
with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  repeat  until 
the  dish  is  full,  having  crumbs  and  butter  on  top. 
Moisten  with  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
water  and  bake,  covered,  for  half  an  hour,  then 
uncover  and  brown.  Or,  prepare  according  to 
directions  given  for  Potatoes  au  Gratin,  using 
sweet  potatoes. 

SWEET  POTATOES  X  LA  RICHMOND 

Peel  and  parboil  small  sweet  x>otatoes,  drain 
and  bake  brown,  basting  with  melted  butter. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  minced  parsley  and  serve. 

SWEET  POTATOES  WARMED  OVER— I 

Chop  fine  half  of  a  small  onion  and  fry  it  in 
butter  with  enough  sliced  cold  boiled  sweet 
potatoes  to  make  a  pint.  When  the  potatoes 
are  brown  skim  out  and  cook  a  tablespoonf ul  of 
flour  in  the  same  fat.  Add  a  cupful  of  stock  and 
cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly,  and  season- 
ing with  salt  and  pepper.     Take  from  the  fire,  add 


63  iniase  to  Oooft  Sweet  potatoes    473 

the  yolk  of  an  egg  well  beaten,  pour  over  the 
potatoes,  and  serve. 

SWEET  POTATOES  WARMED  OVER— II 

Cut  in  slices  and  reheat  in  milk,  seasoning 
with  butter  and  salt,  or  saut^  in  butter.  Or,  cut 
cold  baked  sweet  potatoes  into  thin  slices  and  put 
into  an  earthen  dish,  spreading  each  layer  with 
butter  and  sprinkling  with  sugar.  Put  plenty 
of  butter  and  sugar  on  the  top  and  bake  until 
brown.     Add  water  to  moisten  if  necessary. 

BAKED  MASHED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Peel  and  mash  four  cold  baked  sweet  potatoes. 
Mash  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
one-fourth  cupful  each  of  butter  and  cream  and 
beat  until  creamy.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  and  bake  until  brown. 

GLAZED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Cut  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  into  slices  an 
inch  thick  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Dip  in  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and 
bake  for  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes.  Moisten 
with  water  if  necessary. 

ESCALLOPED  SWEET  POTATOES— I 

Slice  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  and  spread  out 
on  a  shallow  buttered  pan.  Bake  for  forty 
minutes,  basting  with  melted  butter  and  hot 


484  t>ow  to  Cook  Vedetabfed 

RICE  CROQUETTES— XI 

Boil  half  a  cupful  of  rice,  drain,  and  mix  with 
two  well-beaten  eggs,  half  a  cupful  of  milk  or 
cream,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  butter  and  sugar, 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  mace  to  season.  Cool, 
shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— XII 

Mix  a  cupful  of  boiled  rice  with  a  well-beaten 
tgg,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  or  milk, 
with  salt,  sugar,  and  cayenne  to  season.  Add 
crumbs  if  it  is  not  stiff  enough.  Shape  into 
croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat.  The  sugar  may  be  omitted  and  a  little 
minced  parsley  added. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— XIII 

Put  half  a  cupful  of  rice  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  a  pint  of  milk,  and  the  thin  rind  of  a 
lemon.  Simmer  until  the  rice  is  thick  and 
pasty.  Take  out  the  lemon-peel,  cool,  shape  into 
small  balls,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— XIV 

Bring  to  the  boil  half  a  cupful  of  milk.  Add 
a  cupful  of  boiled  rice,  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
sugar  and  butter,  and  salt  and  grated  nutmeg  to 


ntneti^  TRBasd  to  dooli  IKce        4S5 

season.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  one  egg  well 
beaten,  and  cool.  Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in 
egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— XV 

Soak  half  a  cupful  of  rice  for  three  hours  in 
warm  water  to  cover,  drain,  add  a  pint  of  milk, 
and  cook  until  tender  in  a  double  boiler.  Add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Take  from  the  fire,  add  three  eggs  well  beaten 
and  a  little  grated  lemon-peel.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter  and  cool.  Shai>e  into 
croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep 
fat.  Or,  mix  a  cupftil  of  cold  boiled  rice  with 
a  beaten  egg,  season  with  salt,  sugar,  and  melted 
butter,  and  add  enough  milk  to  make  a  smooth 
paste.  Shape  into  balls,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— XVI 

Mix  together  one  cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice, 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  teaspoonftil  each  of  butter 
and  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  enough  milk 
to  make  a  thick  paste.  Shape  into  balls  with 
floured  hands,  put  on  ice  for  two  hours,  then 
dip  in  egg  and  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Or, 
boil  a  cupful  of  rice  in  salted  water,  drain,  dry, 
and  mix  with  half  a  cupful  of  milk  and  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  butter,  and  grated  nutmeg  or  lemon-peel. 
Cool,  shape  into  croquettes,  put  on  ice  for  two 


476  Dow  to  doolt  IPedetabled 

Then  add  one  cupful  of  milk,  mix  thoroughly, 
and  cook  for  an  hour  longer. 

BOILED  RICE— IV 

Cover  the  rice  with  cold  water,  bring  to  the 
boil,  cook  for  five  minutes,  drain,  rinse  in  cold 
water,  and  cook  in  plenty  of  boiling  salted  water, 
then  drain  and  dry.  The  Japanese  cook  rice 
in  a  covered  saucepan  with  four  times  its  bulk 
of  water. 

BOILED  RICE— V 

Cover  a  cupful  of  rice  with  a  quart  of  cold 
water,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Drain,  put  into  a  double  boiler  with 
two  cupf uls  of  cold  milk,  and  cook,  covered,  until 
the  milk  is  absorbed. 

BOILED  RICE— VI 

Put  half  a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  into  a 
double  boiler  with  a  pint  of  cold  water.  Let 
stand  for  half  an  hour,  then  boil  until  nearly 
dry.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  cupful  of  hot 
milk,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  milk 
is  absorbed.  Uncover  to  dry  a  little  before 
serving. 

BROILED  RICE 

Mix  two  cupfuls  of  boiled  rice  with  a  beaten 
egg  and  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  thick  Cream  Sauce, 


Wnetfi  mmofi  to  aeok  IRice        477 

seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  onion-juice. 
Put  into  a  shallow  buttered  dish,  cool  under  a 
weight,  cut  into  squares,  and  broiL 

BUTTERED  RICE— I 

Boil  a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice,  according  to 
directions  previously  given,  adding  the  juice  of 
a  lemon  to  the  water.  Drain,  put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  moisten  thoroughly  with  clarified 
butter,  cover,  and  put  into  a  moderate  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.  Or,  saut^  boiled  rice  in  butter, 
keeping  the  grains  separate.  A  little  minced 
onion  may  be  fried  with  it. 

BUTTERED  RICE— II 

Reheat  boiled  rice  in  melted  butter,  season 
highly  with  salt  and  paprika,  and  serve.  Add 
minced  parsley  or  chives  if  desired. 

BUTTERED  RICE— III 

Cover  half  a  pound  of  rice  with  cold  salted 
water,  bring  to  the  boil,  cook  for  five  minutes, 
drain,  rinse  with  cold  water,  drain  again,  cover 
with  a  cloth,  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  tintil 
swollen  and  soft.  Melt  and  skim  a  cupful  of 
butter,  pour  over  the  rice,  and  serve. 

RICE  BORDER— I 

Boil  a  cupful  of  rice  in  chicken  stock,  drain, 
mix  with  a  beaten  egg  and  two  tablespoonf uls  of 


47^  f)ow  to  Coolt  V)€0etabled 

cream.  Press  into  a  buttered  ring  mould,  turn 
out,  brush  with  beaten  egg,  and  brown  in  the 
oven. 

RICE  BORDER— II 

Wash  thoroughly  one  cupful  of  rice,  cover 
with  three  cupf  uls  of  cold  water,  and  boil  slowly 
for  half  an  hour.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  beat 
until  smooth.  Add  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
turn  into  a  buttered  border  mould,  and  bake 
for  ten  minutes.  Turn  out  on  a  serving-dish 
and  fill  the  centre  with  curried  meat  or  fish. 

RICE  BORDER— III 

Boil  one  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  in  a  quart 
of  stock,  for  fifteen  minutes,  uncover,  then  simmer 
very  slowly  for  twenty  minutes.  Drain,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  press  into  a  buttered 
border  mould,  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Turn  out  and  fill  the  centre  with  creamed 
or  curried  chicken. 

RICE  BALLS— I 

Mix  a  pint  of  cold  boiled  rice  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon- juice  and  mould  into  small  firm 
balls.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  drain,  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  serve. 

RICE  BALLS— II 

Mix  two  cupfuls  of  boiled  rice  with  two  eggs 


Mnetfi  Wins  to  Cioofi  Wee         479 

well  beaten,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
and  a  little  milk.  Shape  into  balls,  cover,  and 
bake,  covered,  for  fifteen  minutes.  Brush  with 
the  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  sprinkle  with  grated 
cheese,  and  brown. 

CURRIED  RICE— I 

Boil  a  cupful  of  rice  in  salted  water,  drain, 
and  mix  with  a  chopped  onion  fried  in  butter 
and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  curry  powder  dissolved 
in  a  cupful  of  stock  or  gravy. 

CURRIED  RICE— II 

Boil  a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  in  salted 
water  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  When  the 
liquid  is  nearly  absorbed,  add  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter,  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  curry  powder. 

'    CURRIED  RICE— III 

Mix  a  teaspoonful  of  curry  paste  or  powder 
with  stock  and  add  it  to  a  pound  of  well-washed 
rice  which  is  simmering  in  stock  to  cover.  Season 
with  lemon- juice  and  serve.  A  chopped  fried 
onion  may  be  added. 

CURRIED  RICE— IV 

Wash  a  cupful  of  rice  in  several  waters  and 
soak  it  for  fifteen  minutes  in  the  last  water,  using 
barely  enough  to  cover.     Cover  with  a  quart  of 


48o  1)ow  to  Cooft  Vegetabted 

salted  water  in  which  a  grated  onion  has  been 
boiled  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder 
rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  water. 
Bake,  covered,  until  the  liquid  is  absorbed, 
pour  over  a  little  melted  butter,  and  serve. 

RICE  CROUSTADE 

Cook  half  a  pound  of  well-washed  rice  in  a 
quart  of  water,  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  pepper  and  salt  to  season.  Boil  until  the 
rice  is  tender  and  dry  and  rub  through  a  fine 
sieve.  Shape  into  a  border  on  a  serving-dish, 
brush  with  melted  butter  and  brown  in  the 
oven. 

CASSEROLE  OP  RICE 

Boil  rice  in  chicken  stock  and  press  finnly 
into  a  mould.  Turn  out  on  a  serving-dish, 
brush  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  sprinkle 
with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and .  brown  in 
the  oven.     Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

RICE  CROQUETTES^I 

Put  two  cupf  uls  of  cold  boiled  rice  into  a  dou- 
ble boiler  with  enough  milk  to  soften.  When  soft 
add  one  teaspoonful  each  of  butter  and  minced 
parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  one  egg 
well  beaten.  Cool,  shape  into  croquettes,  dip 
in  crumbs,  then  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  deep  fat.  Two  teaspoonfuls  each  of  butter 
and  minced  parsley  may  be  used. 


Dinetie  TDlasd  to  Cooft  IRice        4Sx 

RICE  CROQUETTES— II 

Cook  half  a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  in  one 
cupful  each  of  salted  water  and  boiling  milk. 
Add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  egg 
well  beaten.  Cool,  shape  into  croquettes,  dip 
in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— III 

Mix  half  a  cupful  of  washed  rice  with  half  a 
cupful  of  boiling  water  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Cover  and  cook  until  the  water  is  absorbed. 
Add  a  cupful  of  boiling  milk  and  cook  until  the 
rice  is  soft.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  butter,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Cool, 
shape  into  balls,  dip  in  crumbs,  then  in  egg  and 
crtunbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— IV 

Cover  a  cupful  of  rice  with  cold  water,  cook 
until  tender,  drain,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  if  the  mix- 
ture is  not  stiff  enough.  Add  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs,  shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in 
^gg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— V 

Reheat  two  cupfuls  of  boiled  rice  with  a  little 
very  thick  Cream  Sauce  and  add  the  beaten 
yolk  of   an  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls   of  grated 

31 


482  t)ow  to  dooft  \>cgctnb\€6 

cheese,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Cool, 
shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  crumbs,  then  in 
beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Cooked  and  chopped  macaroni  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  rice. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— VI 

Cook  a  pint  of  well-washed  rice  in  a  quart  of 
stock  with  a  little  butter,  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  nutmeg,  and  grated  cheese.  Spread  in  a 
buttered  pan  and  cool  under  a  weight.  Cut 
into  shape,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  then  in  egg, 
then  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— VII 

< 

Mix  together  one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter 
and  tomato- juice,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
cheese,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  salt  and 
paprika  to  season,  and  one  cupful  of  rice  boiled 
in  stock.  Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— VIII 

Chop  an  onion  and  fry  in  butter  with  a  pound  of 
well-washed  and  drained  rice.  Add  three  cupf  uls 
of  beef  stock  and  two  cupfuls  of  stewed  and 
strained  tomatoes.  Bring  to  the  boil  and  cook 
for  twenty  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire,  add 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs  well  beaten,  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg 
to  season,  and  a  heaping  cupful  of  grated  Par- 


nineti;  WinB  to  Cooh  tHcc        4&3 

xnesan  cheese.  Heat  for  a  moment,  then  cool, 
shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTE&-IX 

Parboil  half  a  cupful  of  rice  for  five  minutes, 
drain,  and  finish  cooking  in  a  cupful  of  stock, 
with  two  cupf  uls  of  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes. 
Season  with  salt,  paprika,  minced  parsley,  and 
grated  onion.  When  the  rice  is  tender,  take 
from  the  fire,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
half  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese,  and  one  egg 
well  beaten.  Cool,  shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in 
^gg  and  crvunbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Add 
crumbs  if  the  mixture  should  not  be  stiff  enough 
to  shape  easily. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— X 

Cook  half  a  can  of  tomatoes  for  fifteen  minutes 
with  a  slice  each  of  carrot,  onion,  and  turnip,  a 
teaspoonful  of  sweet  herbs,  a  sprig  of  parsley, 
two  cloves,  two  pepper-corns,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Rub  through  a 
sieve,  add  a  cupful  of  brown  stock,  season  highly, 
bring  to  the  boil,  add  a  cupful  of  raw  rice,  and 
cook  until  the  liquid  is  absorbed.  Add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  finish  cooking. 
Take  from  the  fire,  add  a  beaten  egg  and,  if 
necessary,  a  little  tomato- juice  to  moisten.  Cool, 
shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 


484  t)ow  to  Cook  Ve0etabte0 

RICE  CROQUETTES— XI 

Boil  half  a  cupful  of  rice,  drain,  and  mix  with 
two  well-beaten  eggs,  half  a  cupful  of  milk  or 
cream,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  butter  and  sugar, 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  mace  to  season.  Cool» 
shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— XII 

Mix  a  cupful  of  boiled  rice  with  a  well-beaten 
egg,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  or  milk, 
with  salt,  sugar,  and  cayenne  to  season.  Add 
crumbs  if  it  is  not  stiS.  enough.  Shape  into 
croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat.  The  sugar  may  be  omitted  and  a  little 
minced  parsley  added. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— XIII 

Put  half  a  cupful  of  rice  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  a  pint  of  milk,  and  the  thin  rind  of  a 
lemon.  Simmer  until  the  rice  is  thick  and 
pasty.  Take  out  the  lemon-peel,  cool,  shape  into 
small  balls,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— XIV 

Bring  to  the  boil  half  a  cupful  of  milk.  Add 
a  cupful  of  boiled  rice,  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
sugar  and  butter,  and  salt  and  grated  nutmeg  to 


Mnetis  V!las0  to  doolk  Ittce        48$ 

season.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  one  egg  well 
beaten,  and  cool.  Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in 
egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— XV 

Soak  half  a  cupful  of  rice  for  three  hours  in 
warm  water  to  cover,  drain,  add  a  pint  of  milk, 
and  cook  until  tender  in  a  double  boiler.  Add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Take  from  the  fire,  add  three  eggs  well  beaten 
and  a  little  grated  lemon-peel.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter  and  cool.  Shape  into 
croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep 
fat.  Or,  mix  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice  with 
a  beaten  egg,  season  with  salt,  sugar,  and  melted 
butter,  and  add  enough  milk  to  make  a  smooth 
paste.  Shape  into  balls,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— XVI 

Mix  together  one  cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice, 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  butter 
and  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  enough  milk 
to  make  a  thick  paste.  Shape  into  balls  with 
floured  hands,  put  on  ice  for  two  hours,  then 
dip  in  egg  and  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Or, 
boil  a  cupftil  of  rice  in  salted  water,  drain,  dry, 
and  mix  with  half  a  cupful  of  milk  and  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  butter,  and  grated  nutmeg  or  lemon-peel. 
Cool,  shape  into  croquettes,  put  on  ice  for  two 


486  Dow  to  Oooft  Vte0etable0 

hours,  then  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs  and  iry  in 
deep  fat. 

SOUTHERN  RICE  CROQUETTES 

Mix  together  three  cupfuls  of  boiled  rice,  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs  and  the  white  of  one,  three 
tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  cream,  and 
salt,  cayenne,  and  mace  to  season.  Cook  to 
a  smooth  paste  in  a  double  boiler,  cool,  shape 
into  croquettes,  dip  in  the  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs,  then  in  crtunbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  The 
mace  may  be  omitted  and  half  a  cupful  of  grated 
cheese  or  ham  added  or  a  cupful  of  chopped 
cooked  chicken.     Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

GERMAN  RICE  CROQUETTES 

Boil  a  cupful  of  rice  in  salted  water,  drain, 
dry,  and  mix  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  grated  cheese,  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
well  beaten,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  season. 
Add  also  a  cupful  of  chopped  cooked  chicken 
giblets  and  cool.  Moisten  with  a  little  stock  if 
required.  Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Sweet-breads  may 
be  used  instead  of  the  giblets. 

RICE  AND  TOMATO  CROQUETTES 

Parboil  half  a  cupful  of  rice  for  ten  minutes, 
drain,  and  finish  cooking  in  tomato-jttice,  season- 
ing with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  sugar.  When 
the  rice  is  tender,  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  tabl^- 


mnets  Tnias0  to  Cooft  Vice        487 

spoonful  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  onion- juice, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Cook  for  five  minutes 
in  a  double  boiler,  cool,  shape  into  croquettes, 
dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  put  on  ice  for  an  hour, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

RICE  AND  MUSHROOM  CROQUETTES— I 

Chop  fine  half  a  can  of  drained  mushrooms  and 
cook  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  pint  of  stock. 
Drain,  cool,  and  cook  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
washed  rice  in  the  liquid  until  absorbed.  Add 
the  mushrooms,  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  well  beaten,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  sea- 
son. Cool,  shape  into  croquettes  with  floured 
hands,  put  on  ice  for  an  hour,  then  dip  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  brown  in  deep  fat. 

RICE  AND  MUSHROOM  CROQUETTES— II 

Fry  a  cupful  of  chopped  fresh  mushrooms  in 
butter  with  a  slice  of  onion  minced  fine.  Or 
cook  them  for  ten  minutes  in  stock.  Add  a 
cupful  of  boiled  rice,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  salt,  cayenne,  and  nutmeg 
to  season,  and  enough  stock  to  moisten.  Cool, 
shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

RICE  CUTLETS 

Mix  together  one  cupful  each  of  boiled  rice, 
bread-crumbs,     and     chopped    cooked     meat. 


488  Dow  to  Coofi  Vcdctablee 

Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  a  grated 
onion,  and  moisten  with  enough  milk  to  make  a 
paste.  Shape  into  cutlets,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
fry  in  deep  fat,  and  serve  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

ESCALLOPED  RICE^I 

Fill  a  baking-dish  with  alternate  layers  of  boiled 
rice  and  grated  cheese,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter.  Cover  with  milk,  dot  with  butter, 
and  bake  until  brown. 

ESCALLOPED  RICE— II 

Put  boiled  rice  in  layers  in  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  alternating  with  grated  cheese  and  Tomato 
Sauce  or  with  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced  and  Cream 
Sauce.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake 
until  the  crumbs  are  brown. 

FRIED  RICE— I 

Fry  cold  boiled  rice  in  butter  with  a  chopped 
onion,  tossing  with  a  fork  to  keep  the  grains 
distinct. 

FRIED  RICE— II 

Mould  boiled  rice  in  a  bread-pan.  Cut  into 
slices,  dip  in  seasoned  com -meal  or  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  fat  to  cover. 

PILAFF 

Stew  and  strain  a  can  of  tomatoes,  season  to 
taste,  and  add  a  cupful  of  water.     Bring  to  the 


Wnct)i  Mn9  to  Cook  'Rice        489 

boil,  add  one  cupful  of  rice,  and  cook  until  soft, 
adding  more  liquid  if  necessary.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  melted  butter.  The  liquid 
should  be  entirely  absorbed. 

RICE  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Boil  a  cupful  of  rice  according  to  directions 
previously  given  and  pour  over  it  stewed  and 
strained  tomatoes,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  on- 
ion-juice, butter,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar.  Simmer 
until  the  sauce  is  nearly  absorbed.  A  cupful  of 
stock  or  gravy  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  may  be  added  to  the  Tomato 
Sauce.     Season  with  cayenne. 

RICE  AND  CHEESE— I 

Boil  a  cupful  of  rice  in  a  quart  of  salted  water 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  cheese,  and  cook  until  the  cheese  is 
dissolved. 

RICE  AND  CHEESE^II 

Boil  a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  in  a  quart  and 
a  half  of  boiling  salted  water,  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Drain  off  half  the  water  and  add  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne. 
Cook  slowly  until  the  liquid  is  absorbed.  Turn 
into  a  serving-dish  and  sprinkle  thickly  with 
grated  Parmesan  cheese. 


490  t>oiv  to  OooR  t>e0etable0 

RICE  WITH  BACON 

Boil  a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  for  six  min- 
utes, then  drain,  put  into  a  frying-pan  with  half 
a  pound  of  bacon  cut  into  dice.  Add  three 
cupfuls  of  stock,  simmer  for  twenty  minutes, 
add  a  cupful  of  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes, 
and  serve.     Garnish  with  fried  bacon. 

RICE  WITH  CREAM  CHEESE  SAUCE 

Mix  plain  boiled  rice,  well  salted,  with  rich 
White  Sauce  and  a  Hberal  amount  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese. 

MOULDED  RICE— I 

Boil  and  drain  a  cupful  of  rice,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  onion- 
juice  to  season,  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs.  Cook  to  a  smooth  thick  paste,  press 
firmly  into  a  wet  mould,  turn  out,  brush  with 
the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  brown  in  the 
oven.     Serve  with  Drawn-Butter  Sauce. 

MOULDED  RICE— II 

Parboil  a  cupful  of  rice  for  ten  minutes, 
drain  and  finish  cooking  in  chicken  stock,  season- 
ing with  salt,  pepper,  and  onion- juice.  Press 
firmly  into  a  wet  mould,  turn  out,  brush  with 
beaten  egg^  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and 
brown. 


Wnct^  TniaiS0  to  Cooft  Vice        491 

MEXICAN  RICE 

Brown  a  cupful  of  rice  in  fat,  add  three  cupf uls 
of  boiling  water,  a  sliced  tomato,  and  a  chopped 
onion.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover,  and 
simmer  for  forty-five  minutes. 

RICE  MILANAISE 

Put  a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  minced  onion  into  a  cupful  of  boiling 
milk,  cover,  and  cook  slowly  in  double  boiler 
for  twenty  minutes.  Add  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  each  of  butter  and  grated  cheese,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  stand  for  ten 
minutes  and  serve. 

NEAPOLITAN  RICE 

Chop  an  onion  fine,  fry  in  oil,  add  half  a  cupful 
of  rice  and,  when  colored,  a  pint  of  stock.  Add 
three  or  four  peeled  and  chopped  tomatoes,  eight 
choppted  mushrooms,  and  a  small  slice  of  ham. 
Bring  to  the  boil,  cover,  and  cook  in  the  oven 
for  twenty  minutes.  Take  out  the  ham,  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne,  and  moisten  if 
necessary  with  stock  or  Tomato  Sauce.  Serve 
with  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 

RISSOTTO— I 

Chop  fine  a  small  onion  and  three  beans  of 
garlic.  Fry  in  butter,  add  half  a  cupful  of  boiling 
water,  a  teaspoonful  of  beef  extract,  and  three 


493  t>ow  to  Cooft  It^60eta&le0 

or  four  dried  mushrooms,  soaked  and  chopped. 
Simmer  for  five  minutes,  pour  over  boiled  rice, 
and  season  highly  with  grated  Swiss  and  Parme- 
san cheese.  Put  in  the  oven  until  the  cheese  has 
softened  and  serve. 

RISSOTTO— II 

Parboil  a  cupful  of  rice.  Put  into  a  saucepan 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  small 
onion  chopped,  and  cook  until  the  butter  is 
absorbed.  Add  a  cupful  of  canned  tomatoes,  two 
cupfuls  of  stock,  half  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese 
with  salt  and  paprika  to  season.  Serve  very  hot. 

RISSOTTO— III 

Chop  fine  an  onion,  fry  it  in  butter,  and  add  a 
cupful  of  well-washed  rice.  Cook  for  seven  or 
eight  minutes  and  add  enough  stock  to  cook  the 
rice  in.  Simmer  until  soft,  add  a  cupful  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  and  stir  until  the  cheese  is 
melted.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  serve 
on  toast.     Add  a  little  grated  nutmeg  if  desired. 

RISSOTTO— IV 

Chop  fine  a  small  onion  and  fry  in  butter. 
Dredge  with  a  little  fiour  and  add  half  a  cupful 
of  well-washed  rice.  Pour  in  enough  stock  to 
cook  it,  and  boil  until  the  grains  are  swollen 
and  soft.  Shake  the  pan  occasionally,  but  do 
not  stir.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon- 
juice,  sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and 


ffUnetfi  mxaB  to  Coofi  Wee        493 

serve.     Water  may  be  used  instead  of  stock  if 
a  cupful  of  tomato  pulp  is  added. 

SAVORY  RICE— I 

Cook  half  a  cupful  of  rice  in  salted  water  until 
half  done  and  drain.  Cover  with  rich  stock  and 
simmer  until  the  stock  is  absorbed.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  add  three  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  grated  cheese,  and  serve. 

SAVORY  RICE— II 

Cook  a  cupful  of  rice  with  three  cupfuls  or 
more  of  stock  and  half  a  cupful  of  tomato-juice. 
Season  with  butter,  salt,  paprika,  and  curry 
powder  and  serve  very  hot.  The  curry  powder 
may  be  omitted. 

SAVORY  RICE— III 

Cook  a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  with  one 
cupful  of  stock  and  two  cupfuls  of  boiling  water, 
adding  a  pinch  of  salt.  Simmer  slowly  until  the 
liquid  is  absorbed.  Add  two  eggs  beaten  with 
a  cupful  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
two  of  grated  cheese.  Add  also  half  a  cupful 
of  minced  cooked  chicken,  veal  or  ham,  turn  into 
a  buttered  mould,  and  bake,  covered,  for  an 
hour  and  a  half.  Set  the  mould  into  a  pan  of 
hot  water  to  prevent  burning. 

SAVORY  RICE— IV 

Boil  a  cupful  of  rice  in  a  pint  of  hot  chicken 


494  t>ow  to  Cooft  lt>e0etabte0 

stock,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion-juice. 
Put  into  a  serving-dish,  brush  with  beaten  egg, 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and  brown  in  the 
oven. 

SAVORY  RICE— V 

Boil  a  cupful  of  rice  in  salted  water,  drain,  dry, 
and  mix  with  it  a  cupful  of  milk,  thickened 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch.  Add  an  egg 
well  beaten  and  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  but- 
ter. Cool  and  mix  with  a  cupful  of  chopped 
cooked  meat  and  a  few  pounded  nuts,  moisten- 
ing with  stock.  Butter  a  mould,  sprinkle  with 
crumbs,  pour  the  mixture  in,  cover,  and  bake 
in  a  pan  of  water  for  two  hours.  Serve  with 
Tomato  Sauce  and  grated  cheese. 

SAVORY  RICE— VI 

Boil  a  cupful  of  rice  in  a  pint  of  mutton  stock, 
seasoning  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  tomato-  and 
onion-juice.  When  the  liquid  is  absorbed, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  teaspoonful 
each  of  curry  powder  and  capers.  Or,  use  equal 
parts  of  tomato- juice  and  mutton,  chicken,  or 
veal  stock.  Cook  half  a  cupful  of  rice  in  it  until 
the  liquid  is  absorbed,  then  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  salt,  paprika,  and  curry  powder 
to  season.   Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  in  serving. 

SAVORY  RICE— VII 

Boil  a  set  of  chicken  giblets,  drain,  and  chop 


Wnct2  TKIlaisd  to  Oooft  "Rice        495 

fine,  reserving  the  liquid.  Add  enough  boiling 
water  or  stock  to  make  a  pint,  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful  each  of  chopped  onion  and  salt  pork.  Boil 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  in  it  until  the  liquid 
is  absorbed.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
the  chopped  giblets,  salt  and  paprika  to  season, 
half  a  cupful  of  boiling  milk,  and  one  egg  well- 
beaten.  Simmer  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a 
buttered  mould  which  has  been  sprinkled  with 
crumbs,  and  bake  for  five  minutes.  Serve 
with  Tomato  Sauce  and  grated  cheese. 

SAVORY  RICE-4VIII 

Boil  and  drain  a  cupful  of  rice.  Parboil  the 
giblets  of  two  chickens  and  chop  fine  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt  pork  and  six  olives.  Bring 
to  the  boil  in  stock  to  cover,  seasoning  with  salt, 
paprika,  and  onion- juice.  Thicken  with  flour 
browned  in  butter,  add  the  boiled  rice  and  two 
eggs  well  beaten.  Turn  into  a  buttered  mould, 
and  steam  for  two  or  three  hours.  Serve  with 
Tomato  Sauce  and  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 

SAVORY  RICE— IX 

Boil  and  drain  a  cupful  of  rice,  add  a  table- 
spoonful of  butter  and  a  cupful  of  hot  milk, 
thickened  with  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch. 
Add  one  egg  well  beaten,  salt  and  pepper  to  sea- 
son, and  cool.  Chop  fine  two  cupfuls  of  cooked 
meat  with  half  a  can  of  mushrooms  and  season 
highly  with  kitchen   bouquet,   paprika,    onion- 


49<^  tiow  to  dooft  vegetabCcd 

juice,  and  if  desired,  a  little  curry.  Moisten 
with  stock  or  gravy,  mix  with  the  rice,  put  into 
a  well-buttered  mould,  and  steam  for  two  or 
three  hours.  Turn  out  and  serve  with  Tomato 
Sauce  and  grated  cheese. 

SAVORY  RICE— X 

Boil  a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  in  two  cupf uls 
of  stock,  seasoning  with  salt,  cayenne,  minced 
parsley,  and  sweet  herbs.  Just  before  serving, 
stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter.  For 
liquid,  equal  parts  of  stock  and  tomato-Juice  may 
be  used.     Season  with  curry  powder. 

SAVORY  RICE— XI 

Pry  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion  in  but- 
ter, add  a  cupful  of  washed  rice,  and  cook  until 
colored.  Put  into  the  double  boiler  with  two  cup- 
fuls  of  chicken  stock  and  cook  for  half  an  hour. 

SPANISH  RICE— I 

Chop  fine  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat  salt  pork 
and  fry  with  two  seeded  and  chopped  green 
peppers  and  two  minced  onions.  Mix  with 
boiled  rice  moistened  with  Tomato  Sauce  and 
put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish.  Spread  with 
buttered  crumbs  and  bake,  covered,  for  twenty 
minutes,  then  uncoyer  and  brown. 

SPANISH  RICE— II 

Mix  chopped  pimentos  with  plain  boiled  rice 


Wneti^  WUc^  to  Coofc  IRice         497 

and  a  little  melted  butter,  or  reheat  boiled  rice  in  a 
little  of  the  sauce  given  in  the  recipe  for  Spaghetti 
k  la  Tomaso. 

RICE  SOUFFL]£ 

Boil  a  cupful  of  rice  for  twenty  minutes. 
Drain,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  to  season,  and  four  eggs  well  beaten. 
Beat  in  gradually  nearly  four  cupfuls  of  milk, 
turn  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  and  bake,  cov- 
ered, for  half  an  hour,  then  uncover  and  brown. 

TIMBALE  OF  RICE 

Fry  a  chopped  onion  in  butter  and  brown  it  in 
a  pound  of  dry  rice.  Add  six  cupfuls  of  beef 
stock  and  cook  until  the  liquid  is  absorbed. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  half  a  cupful 
of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Pack  firmly  into  a 
buttered  mould,  bake  for  fifteen  minutes,  turn 
out,  and  serve  with  any  preferred  sauce. 

RICE  TIMBALE  CASES 

Fill  buttered  timbale  moulds  with  boiled 
rice,  packing  closely,  and  cool.  Scoop  out  the 
centres  and  fill  with  creamed  chicken  or  fish. 
Or,  brush  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with 
grated  cheese,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

TURKISH  RICE— I 

Cook  a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  in  stock 
to  cover  and  simmer  slowly  until  the  stock  is 

39 


49^  f>ov^  to  Cook  m^CQctnbUe 

absorbed.     Season  with  butter,  and  add  a  little 
Tomato  Sauce,  or  catsup,  and  serve. 

TURKISH  RICE— II 

Boil  a  cupful  of  washed  rice  in  equal  parts 
of  stock  and  strained  tomato,  seasoning  with 
salt.  When  the  liquid  is  absorbed,  add  half 
a  cupful  of  butter  and  cook  until  tender  in  a 
double  boiler. 

TURKISH  RICE— III 

Bring  to  the  boil  one  cupful  each  of  stock  and 
stewed  and  strained  tomatoes.  Season  highly 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  minced  onion.  Add  one 
cupful  of  well-washed  rice  and  cook  until  the 
liquid  is  absorbed,  then  add  half  a  cupful  of 
butter,  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  double 
boiler.  A  cupful  of  chopped  cooked  lamb, 
veal,  or  chicken  may  be  added  with  the  butter. 

RICE  X  LA  CREOLE— I 

Chop  together  a  large  onion,  two  green  seeded 
peppers,  and  half  a  cupful  of  raw  ham.  Saut^ 
in  butter,  then  add  a  cupful  of  parboiled  rice, 
three  cupfuls  of  beef  stock,  one  cupful  of  canned 
tomatoes,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cook  very 
slowly  until  the  rice  is  tender  and  the  liquid 
nearly  absorbed. 

RICE  A  LA  CREOLE— II 

Chop  four  tomatoes,  four  green  peppers  with- 


Mnetis  TRAaigd  to  Cooft  'Rice         499 

out  the  seeds,  and  one  large  onion.  Saut^  in 
bacon  fat,  add  a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  and  a 
pint  of  boiling  stock  or  water.  Cook  for  half 
an  hour  or  more,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  serve. 

RICE  X  LA  CREOLE— III 

Fry  a  chopped  onion  in  oil  with  a  cupful  of 
raw  rice.  Add  stock  to  cover,  four  green  or 
canned  Spanish  peppers,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley. 
Cover  and  cook  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes, 
take  out  the  parsley,  and  moisten  with  a  Httle 
stock  if  necessary.  A  little  chopped  cooked 
chicken  may  be  added. 

RICE  X  LA  CREOLE— IV 

Brown  half  a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  in 
butter,  add  two  cupf  uls  of  boiling  water  or  stock, 
and  cook  imtil  tender  and  nearly  dry.  Chop 
fine  two  onions  and  two  seeded  green  peppers 
and  fry  in  butter  with  four  chopped  tomatoes. 
Mix  with  the  rice  and  serve.  Or,  brown  boiled 
rice  with  a  sliced  onion  and  butter,  moisten  with 
Tomato  Sauce,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  cheese,  and  serve. 

RICE  X  LA  CREOLE— V 

Chop  an  onion  fine  and  fry  it  in  butter  with 
a  seeded  and  chopped  green  pepper.  Take 
from  the  fire,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice, 
and  pour  over  hot  boiled  rice. 


500  Dow  to  OooiK  VcgctMlce 

RICE  X  LA  CREOLE— VI 

Remove  the  seeds  and  veins  from  two  red 
peppers  and  chop  fine  with  a  large  onion  and 
one-fourth  pound  of  ham.  Saut6  in  butter,  add 
a  cupful  of  well-washed  rice,  and  cook  until  the 
rice  is  brown.  Add  three  cupfuls  of  beef 
stock,  cover,  simmer  for  half  an  hour,  then 
add  one-third  can  of  tomatoes,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Cook 
slowly  until  thoroughly  done  and  serve  very 
hot. 

RICE  X  V ITALIENNE 

Fry  two  chopx)ed  onions  in  butter  with  a  cupful 
of  rice,  and  three  chopped  mushrooms.  Cover 
with  a  quart  of  boiling  stock  and  cook  until  the 
rice  is  tender.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  cheese. 

RICE  X  LA  MILANAISE 

Chop  a  slice  of  onion,  fry  it  in  butter,  then 
add  half  a  cupful  of  washed  rice  and  four 
cupfuls  of  white  stock.  Season  with  salt 
and  paprika  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  cheese.  Brown  Sauce  may  be  served 
with  it. 

RICE  X  LA  RUSSE 

Chop  fine  a  bean  of  garlic,  mix  with  a  cupful 
of  sausage  meat,  and  boil  until  done  in  water  to 


VUnetis  TRAaigd  to  Cooft  Vice        501 

cover,  adding  a  pinch  of  allspice  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  mushroom  catsup.  Mix  with  a 
cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice.  Heat  thoroughly 
and  serve. 


TWENTY-FIVE  WAYS  TO  COOK 

SALSIFY 

BOILED  SALSIFY 

Scrape  a  bunch  of  salsify  and  throw  into  cold 
acidulated  water.  Cut  in  pieces  and  boil  until 
tender  in  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter  and,  if  desired,  a 
little  cream.  Or,  serve  with  Mattre  d*  H6tel, 
Hollandaise,  Onion,  or  Italian  Sauce. 

BAKED  SALSIFY— I 

Slice  boiled  salsify  and  put  in  layers  in  a  but- 
tered baking-dish,  sprinkling  each  layer  with 
crumbs  and  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter.  Have  crumbs  on  top.  Fill  the  dish 
with  milk  and  bake  until  brown. 

BAKED  SALSIFY— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Salsify.  Drain,  put  into  a  buttered 
baking-pan  and  bake,  basting  with  stock. 

CREAMED  SALSIFY 

Prepare   according   to    directions   given    for 

502 


XLv^cnt^'»fiw  Wnw  to  Cooft  Salafts    503 

Boiled    Salsify,    and    reheat   in   Cream   Sauce. 
Season  with  lemon-juice  if  desired. 

SALSIFY  CROQUETTES 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for  Boiled 
Salsify,  using  one  large  bunch.  Drain,  mash 
through  a  sieve,  and  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon- juice.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  each  of  butter  and  cream,  and  cool. 
Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crvunbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

ESCALLOPED  SALSIFY— I 

Mash  boiled  salsify  through  a  sieve,  season  with 
salt,  cayenne,  butter,  and  celery  salt,  and  moisten 
with  milk.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
cover  with  crtunbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  until  brown.  Or,  use  sliced 
boiled  salsify  alternately  with  Cream  or  Drawn- 
Butter  Sauce  and  seasoned  and  buttered  crumbs. 
Have  sauce  on  top.  Cover  with  crtunbs,  wet 
with  cream,  and  bake  brown. 

ESCALLOPED  SALSIFY— II 

Slice  boiled  salsify  and  put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish  in  layers,  sprinkling  with  cracker 
crumbs  and  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  dots 
of  butter.  Have  crumbs  on  top.  Pour  over 
enough  milk  to  cover,  and  bake. 

ESCALLOPED  SALSIFY  AND  CELERY 

Put  cooked   sliced   salsify   in   layers  into   a 


504  l>ow  to  Cooli  It>e0etable0 

buttered  baking-dish,  seasoning  each  layer  with 
chopped  celery  and  covering  with  White  Sauce. 
Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  for  twenty 
minutes. 

FRIED  SALSIFY— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Salsify,  drain,  marinate  in  French  Dressing 
and  saut^  in  very  hot  fat.  Serve  with  Mattre 
d*  H6tel  Sauce  if  desired.  Or,  boil,  drain,  dip  in 
egg  and  crumbs  or  seasoned  flour,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat. 

FRIED  SALSIFY— II 

Marinate  cooked  salsify  in  French  Dressing 
with  a  little  minced  parsley,  drain,  dip  in  fritter 
batter,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

FRIED  SALSIFY— III 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Salsify.  Drain,  press  through  a  sieve, 
and  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten  and 
salt  and  x>epper  to  season.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on 
a  buttered  griddle.  Fry  brown  and  serve  with 
Tomato  Sauce  or  catsup. 

FRIED  SALSIFY— IV 

Prepare  a  bunch  of  salsify  according  to  direc- 
tions given  for  Boiled  Salsify.  Drain,  mash, 
add  one  cupful  of  milk,  one  egg  well  beaten,  a 
tablespoonf  ul  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  enough 


XLv^cnVR^fivc  TlQlaige  to  dooft  SnleiX^    505 

sifted  flour  to  make  a  batter.  Fry  by  spoonfuls 
on  a  buttered  griddle.  Or,  add  two  eggs  to 
the  mashed  salsify,  salt  and  pepper  to  season, 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter,  and  fry  by 
spoonfuls  in  deep  fat. 

FRIED  SALSIFY— V 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Salsify.  Drain,  mash,  season  with 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  moisten  with  milk, 
and  add  one  or  two  beaten  eggs.  Shape  into 
small  fiat  cakes,  dredge  with  flour  or  criunbs, 
and  saut^  in  butter.  If  the  mixture  is  not  thick 
enough  to  shape  easily,  add  powdered  cracker 
crumbs. 

FRIED  SALSIFY— VI 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Salsify,  and  mash.  Add  a  beaten  egg,  a 
little  milk,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  to  season. 
Mix  with  flour,  shape  into  small  flat  cakes,  dip 
in  beaten  egg  and  flour,  and  fry  brown.  Or, 
grate  the  salsify,  mix  with  two  well-beaten 
eggs,  and  fry  by  spoonfuls  in  deep  fat. 

FRIED  SALSIFY— VII 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Salsify.  Drain,  saut^  in  butter,  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  minced  parsley,  and 
serve. 


5o6  t>ow  to  Cook  i0CQeUibleB 

SALSIFY  CAKES 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Salsify,  drain,  and  mash.  Shape  into 
small  flat  cakes  and  fry  brown  in  butter  or 
drippings. 

SALSIFY  FRITTERS— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Salsify.  Drain,  dip  in  fritter  batter,  and 
fry  in  deep  fat. 

SALSIFY  FRITTERS— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Salsify.  Drain,  mash,  add  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  butter  and  milk,  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  by  spoonfuls 
on  a  buttered  griddle  and  fry  brown,  turning 
once.  Or,  omit  the  milk  and  butter  and  fry 
in  deep  fat. 

SALSIFY  FRITTERS— III 

Make  a  batter  of  two  eggs,  half  a  cupful  of  milk, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  enough  sifted  flour  to  make 
it  of  the  proper  consistency.  Grate  the  roots  of 
a  bimch  of  salsify  into  the  batter  and  fry  by 
spoonfuls  in  deep  fat.  Or,  mix  mashed  cooked 
salsify  with  milk  and  add  one  or  two  beaten  eggs. 
Add  flour  if  necessary  to  make  a  stifE  paste  and 
shape  into  small  flat  cakes.  Fry  brown  in 
fat  to  cover. 


irwentis<»#ivc  TKAai^  to  aooft  Qalait^     507 

SALSIFY  SAUT^ 

Prepare  a  bunch  of  salsify  according  to  direc- 
tions given  for  Boiled  Salsify.  Drain,  cut  into 
small  pieces,  and  saut^  in  butter  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  mushrooms.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  minced  chives,  and  parsley,  and 
a  few  drops  of  vinegar. 

SALSIFY  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE 

Boil  salsify  according  to  directions  previously 
given.  Make  a  Brown  Sauce  with  the  cooking 
liquid,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  minced 
onion,  and  add  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  kitchen  bouquet. 
Reheat  the  salsify  in  the  sauce. 

STEWED  SALSIPY--I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Salsify.  Cook  in  salted  and  acidulated 
water  with  a  tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and 
vinegar,  an  onion  stuck  with  two  cloves,  a  sliced 
carrot,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley.  Serve  with 
Cream  or  B^hamel  Sauce,  using  a  part  of  the 
strained  cooking  liquid  in  the  sauce.  Sprinkle 
with  minced  parsley  and  serve. 

STEWED  SALSIFY— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Salsify,  drain,  and  reheat  in  boiling  milk. 
Simmer  for  five  minutes,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter 


5o8  Dow  to  Cooft  JS^eoctnblce 

and  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cracker 
crumbs.  Serve  as  soon  as  the  crumbs  are  soft. 
Or,  thicken  with  butter  rolled  in  flour. 

SALSIFY  A  LA  POULETTB— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Salsify,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  each 
of  flour  and  vinegar  to  the  water.  Cook  until 
tender,  drain,  and  serve  with  Poulette  Sauce. 
B^hamel  Sauce  may  be  used  instead,  or  seasoned 
cream  mixed  with  melted  butter. 

SALSIFY  A  LA  POULETTB— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Salsify,  and  serve  with  Drawn-Butter 
Sauce,  thickened  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
beaten  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream. 


THIRTY-ONE  WAYS  TO   COOK 
SPAGHETTI 

SPAGHETTI  A  L'AMERICAINE 

Cook  spaghetti  until  tender »  drain,  and  add 
a  can  of  tomato  paste.  Simmer  for  twenty 
minutes,  season  to  taste,  add  two  tablesx^oonfuls 
of  butter,  and  serve  with  grated  cheese. 

SPAGHETTI  A  LA  BjfeCHAMEL 

Make  a  cupful  of  B^hamel  Sauce  and  mix 
with  boiled  spaghetti.  Season  highly  with 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  heat  tmtil  the  cheese 
melts.  Serve  immediately.  Instead  of  B^hamel 
Sauce  a  Cream  Sauce  mixed  with  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  may  be  poured  over  the  spaghetti. 
Put  into  the  oven  for  five  minutes  and  sprinkle 
thickly  with  grated  cheese  or  add  a  cupful  of 
cheese  to  the  sauce. 

SPAGHETTI  X  LA  FLORENCE 

Cut  two  pounds  of  lean  beef  into  small  pieces. 
Cover  with  three  cupfuls  of  water  and  simmer 
slowly  for  two  hours.  Add  a  can  of  tomatoes, 
a  chopped  and  seeded  green  pepper,  a  bay-leaf, 
two  peeled  and  sliced  cloves  of  garlic,  and  salt 
to  season.     Cook  the  sauce  slowly  all  day,  then 

509 


Sio  1>ow  to  Cook  v^eoetabCed 

rub  through  a  sieve.  If  not  thick  enough,  reduce 
by  slow  boiling.  Pour  the  hot  sauce  over 
boiled  and  drained  spaghetti  and  serve  with 
grated  cheese 

SPAGHETTI  A  L'  ITALIENNB— I 

Boil  three-fourths  pound  of  spaghetti,  drain, 
and  mix  with  a  pint  of  Tomato  Sauce  and  half 
a  cupful  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Season 
with  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg,  simmer  for 
ten  minutes,  and  serve  with  more  cheese. 

SPAGHETTI  A  U  ITALIENNE—II 

Make  a  Tomato  Sauce  of  a  can  of  tomatoes, 
one  large  onion  chopped,  and  two  minced  cloves 
of  garlic.  Simmer  until  thick,  seasoning  with 
salt  and  paprika.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  mix 
with  boiled  spaghetti,  and  cook  slowly  until  the 
sauce  is  nearly  absorbed.  Add  a  tablespoonful 
of  chopped  salt  pork  fried  crisp  and  half  a  cupful 
of  grated  cheese.     Heat  thoroughly  and  serve. 

SPAGHETTI  A  L'  ITALIENNE— III 

Mix  one  cupful  each  of  Tomato  and  Espagnole 
Sauce,  add  half  a  cupful  of  stock,  a  peeled  and 
sliced  clove  of  garlic,  a  small  bunch  of  parsley, 
and  half  a  dozen  dried  and  soaked  mushrooms 
chopped  fine.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  nutmeg,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of'  but- 
ter, and  simmer  for  half  an  hour  or  more.  Rub 
through  a  sieve.     Mix  boiled  spaghetti  with  a 


Jlhitt^s>(^nc  Wai^  to  Coofi  Spadbetti    511 

little  clarified  butter  or  oil.  Pour  the  sauce 
over,  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  and  serve. 

SPAGHETTI  A  V  ITALIENNE— IV 

Chop  fine  two  pounds  of  lean  beef,  three 
onions,  a  clove  of  garlic,  and  six  tomatoes. 
Add  a  cupful  of  water  and  cook  slowly  for 
three  hours.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  season  with 
salt,  and  add  half  a  cupful  of  butter.  Mix 
with  boiled  spaghetti,  and  serve  with  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.  Beef  extract  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  beef. 

SPAGHETTI  A  LA  NAPLES 

Arrange  boiled  spaghetti  and  chopped  cooked 
meat  in  alternate  layers  in  a  baking-dish, 
seasoning  each  layer  with  minced  onion  and 
chopped  Spanish  peppers.  Pour  over  enough 
B^hamel  Sauce  to  moisten  and  bake  for  forty 
minutes. 

SPAGHETTI  A  LA  NEAPOLITAN 

Mix  three-fourths  pound  of  boiled  and  drained 
spaghetti  with  a  cupful  each  of  Tomato  and 
Spanish  Sauce,  six  cooked  mushrooms,  and  two 
slices  of  cooked  smoked  beef  tongue  cut  into 
dice,  and  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg  to  season. 
Add  half  a  cupful  or  more  of  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  cook  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve  with  more 
cheese. 


5ia  f>ow  to  Cooft  It^etables 

SPAGHETTI  A  LA  PALERMO 

Have  a  shin  of  beef  thoroughly  broken, 
and  cook  it  in  water  to  cover  with  two  cans  of 
tomatoes,  three  whole  cloves  of  garlic,  two 
onions,  two  bay-leaves,  and  paprika  to  season. 
Simmer  all  day  and  strain,  rubbing  through  the 
sieve  as  much  meat  pulp  as  possible.  Add  more 
water  while  cooking  if  required.  Season  with 
salt  and  stir  in  half  a  cupful  of  thick  cream  or 
butter.  Mix  with  boiled  spaghetti  and  serve 
with  grated  cheese. 

SPAGHETTI  A  LA  ROMA 

Run  through  a  meat  chopper  two  x)ounds  of 
beef,  three  onions,  three  cloves  of  garlic,  two 
stalks  of  celery,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley.  Mix 
wtth  two  cans  of  tomatoes,  cook  to  a  smooth 
thick  sauce,  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Mix 
with  boiled  spaghetti  and  serve  with  grated 
cheese  or  in  a  cheese  shell. 

SPAGHETTI  A  LA  TOMASO 

Fry  six  pork  chops  brown  with  three  sliced 
onions,  adding  a  little  butter  or  oil  if  the  chops 
are  not  fat  enough  to  fry.  Pour  over  two  cans  of 
tomatoes  and  add  three  whole  cloves  of  garlic 
peeled  and  sliced,  find  salt  and  paprika  to  season. 
A  seeded  and  chopped  green  pepper  is  an  improve- 
ment. Simmer  slowly  until  the  meat  is  in  rags, 
adding  boiling  water   if  required.     When  the 


tlbiit^^^nc  tlOlin90  to  (tooh  Spagbctti    513 

sauce-  is  thick  and  dark,  rub  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  pressing  through  as  much  of  the  meat 
pulp  as  possible.  If  it  is  not  thick  enough, 
simmer  until  it  reaches  the  consistency  of  thick 
meat  gravy.  This  sauce  will  keep  for  a  day  or 
two.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of  salted  water  at  a 
galloping  boil.  Put  in  a  handful  of  imported 
spaghetti  without  breaking,  coiling  it  into  the 
kettle  as  it  softens.  Cook  for  twenty  minutes, 
or  more  if  necessary,  stirring  to  keep  from 
burning.  Drain  in  a  colander,  rinse  thoroughly 
with  fresh  boiHng  water,  and  spread  on  a  platter. 
Add  olive-oil  to  moisten  if  desired.  Mix  with 
part  of  the  sauce  and  sprinkle  with  freshly  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.  Pass  sauce  and  cheese  with 
it.  Fried  green  peppers  or  fresh  mushrooms 
may  be  mixed  with  the  spaghetti,  or  a  handful 
of  soaked  dried  Italian  mushrooms  may  be  cooked 
with  the  sauce. 

BAKED  SPAGHETTI 

Boil  three-fourths  pound  of  spaghetti,  drain, 
and  mix  with  one  cupful  each  of  Bechamel  and 
Allemande  Sauce,  seasoning  with  pepper  and 
nutmeg.  Add  half  a  cupf  td  of  grated  cheese,  mix 
thoroughly,  put  into  a  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with 
crtimbs  and  grated  cheese,  pour  over  a  little 
melted  butter,  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes. 

SPAGHETTI  AND  BACON 

Cut  half  a  x>ound  of  bacon  into  dice  and  fry 

33 


5Z4         tow  to  aoofi  veeetnblcB 

crisp.  Seed  and  shred  six  green  peppers  and 
fry  separately  in  butter  or  drippings.  Pour 
the  peppers  and  bacon  with  the  fat,  ovfer  boiled 
spaghetti  and  serve  with  grated  cheese. 

SPAGHETTI  CROQUETTES— I 

Chop  fine  cold  cooked  spaghetti,  season  with 
grated  cheese,  moisten  with  Tomato  Sauce, 
add  one  or  two  beaten  eggs,  and  cook  until 
smooth  and  thick.  Cool,  shape  into  croquettes, 
dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  serve 
with  Tomato  Sauce. 

SPAGHETTI  CROQUETTES— II 

Boil  one-fourth  pound  of  spaghetti,  chop  fine, 
and  reheat  in  a  cupful  of  very  thick  Cream 
Sauce.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  one  tablespoonful 
each  of  grated  cheese  and  minced  parsley, 
salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  the  beaten  yolks 
of  two  eggs.  Cool,  shape  into  croquettes,  dip 
in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. .  Serve 
with  Cream  or  Tomato  Sauce. 

DEVILED  SPAGHETTI 

Boil,  drain,  and  chop  one-third  pound  of  spa- 
ghetti. Reheat  with  a  cupful  of  very  thick  Cream 
Sauce  to  which  three  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley  have  been 
added.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne,  onion-juice, 
and  grated  nutmeg.  Enough  pepper  should  be 
used  to  make  it  very  hot.     A  chopped  pimento 


Ubitt^^^nc  Tmai^  to  Coofi  Spadbetti    515 

may  be  added.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  cover  with  buttered  cmmbs,  and  bake 
until  brown.  Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce  or 
Catsup. 

CREAMED  SPAGHETTI 

Reheat  boiled  spaghetti  in  well-seasoned  Cream 
Sauce  and  serve  with  grated  cheese. 

ESCALLOPED  SPAGHETTI  WITH 
OYSTERS 

Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  in  layers 
drained  oysters  and  boiled  spaghetti  cut  into 
small  pieces.  Season  each  layer  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  dots  of  butter.  Pour  over  enough  Cream 
Sauce  or  milk  to  moisten,  cover  with  crumbs, 
dot  with  butter,  and  bake  until  brown. 

GREEK  SPAGHETTI 

Chop  a  small  onion  fine,  fry  in  butter,  and  mix 
with  a  potmd  and  a  half  of  lean  beef  chopped 
fine  and  fried  in  butter,  highly  seasoned  with 
black  and  white  pepper.  Fill  a  baking-dish 
with  alternate  layers  of  the  meat  and  boiled 
spaghetti,  seasoning  each  layer  with  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.     Bake  until  brown. 

SPAGHETTI  AND  CHEESE 

Cook  half  a  pound  of  spaghetti  in  boiling  salted 
water,    drain,  and    rinse.     Put   into    a    double 


5i6  f>ov(^  to  cook  Vedctabled 

boiler  one  cupful  of  grated  cheese,  half  a  cupful 
or  a  cupful  of  milk  and  a  tablespoonful  or  two  of 
butter.  Cook  until  the  cheese  is  nearly  melted, 
stirring  constantly,  then  add  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  beaten  with  half  a  cupful  or  more  of  milk. 
Take  from  the  fire,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
mix  with  the  spaghetti,  put  into  a  baking-dish 
and  brown  in  the  oven.     Serve  immediately. 

SPAGHETTI  AND  SWISS  CHEESE 

Mix  grated  Swiss  cheese  with  a  little  melted 
butter  and  pour  over  boiled  spaghetti.  Cook 
until  the  cheese  is  meited  and  serve. 

SPAGHETTI  RAREBIT 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  half  a  cupful 
of  milk,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  half  a  pound  of 
grated  American  cheese.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler 
until  the  cheese  is  melted,  pour  over  boiled 
and  drained  spaghetti,  and  serve. 

SPAGHETTI    IN    CHEESE    SHELL 

Cook  together  for  an  hour  three  onions,  three 
cloves  of  garlic,  three  stalks  of  celery,  a  bunch 
of  parsley,  and  two  pounds  of  beef  cut  into  small 
pieces,  using  salted  boiling  water  to  cover. 
Add  two  cans  of  tomatoes  and  simmer  slowly 
until  the  sauce  is  very  thick.  Press  through  a 
sieve.     Mix  the  sauce  with  cooked  and  drained 


lEbftts^^ne  TOais0  to  Coofi  Spagbetti    5^7 

spaghetti  and  serve  on  a  platter  or  in  a  cheese 
shell.     Serve  grated  cheese  with  it. 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE— I 

Rub  a  can  of  tomatoes  through  a  sieve,  add  a 
tablespoonful  each  of  butter,  sugar,  and  grated 
onion  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cook  to  a  smooth 
thick  paste  and  pour  over  boiled  spaghetti. 
Sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  serve. 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE— II 

Cook  a  can  of  tomatoes  for  twenty  minutes  with 
a  chopped  onion,  a  small  slice  of  ham,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  beef  extract,  and  a  clove  of  garUc.  Rub 
through  a  sieve  and  reheat  boiled  spaghetti 
in  the  sauce.  Serve  with  grated  cheese.  Or, 
moisten  the  boiled  spaghetti  with  veal  stock, 
sprinkle  with  cheese  and  mix  with  the  powdered 
yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

SPAGHETTI    WITH   TOMATO   SAUCE— III 

Cook  half  a  pound  of  spaghetti  with  a  slice 
of  onion,  two  cloves,  three  pepper-corns,  and  a 
bit  of  bay-leaf  in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover. 
Drain  and  mix  with  hot  oil  or  melted  butter. 
Pour  over  Tomato  Sauce  or  stewed  and  strained 
tomatoes.  Sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
and  serve. 

SPAGHETTI    WITH    TOMATO    SAUCE— IV 
Boil  a  handful  of  spaghetti  in  salted  water  with 


5i8  l)ow  to  CoofK  V>€g€tnblcs 

half  a  bay-leaf,  three  each  of  cloves  and  pepper- 
corns and  a  small  onion.  Drain,  moisten  with  oil 
or  melted  butter,  mix  with  Tomato  Sauce,  sprin- 
kled thickly  with  grated  cheese,  heat  for  a  mo- 
ment, and  serve. 

R^CHAUFF^  OF  SPAGHETTI 

Cut  cold  cooked  spaghetti  into  small  pieces 
and  reheat  in  Tomato  Sauce.  A  few  chopped 
mushrooms  and  olives  may  be  added  if 
desired.  Season  to  taste  and  serve  with  grated 
cheese. 

STEWED  SPAGHETTI 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  spaghetti,  drain,  and  reheat 
in  milk  to  cover.  Season  with  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt,  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  cheese,  and 
serve.  Or,  make  a  sauce  of  a  cupful  of  stewed 
tomatoes  seasoned  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  onion  and  a  pinch  each  of  cloves  and 
mace.  Thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
browned  in  butter  and  rub  through  a  sieve. 
Pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve  with  grated 
cheese. 

TIMBALE  OP  SPAGHETTI 

Mix  together  two  cupfuls  of  chopped  cooked 
meat,  half  a  cupful  of  bread-cnmibs,  two  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  onion-juice 
to  season.     Line  a  plain  buttered  mould  with 


UbittiS-^ne  TIQU1S0  to  Cooli  Spagbettf    519 

boiled  spaghetti,  coiling  it  around  evenly. 
Fill  the  mould  with  the  seasoned  meat,  put  into 
a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  bake  covered  for  half 
an  hour.  Turn  out  and  serve  with  Tomato 
Sauce. 


TWENTY-NINE  WAYS  TO  COOK 

SPINACH 

BOILED  SPINACH— I 

Cook  a  peck  of  well-washed  spinach,  uncovered, 
with  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes. 
Drain,  pressing  out  all  the  Uquid.  Chop  fine, 
rub  through  a  sieve,  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
butter,  and  sugar,  and  moisten  with  stock,  gravy. 
Brown  Sauce,  or  Cream  Sauce.  Garnish  with 
hard-boiled  eggs  or  croMons.  It  may  be 
reheated  without  chopping  and  seasoned  with 
salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  vinegar. 

BOILED  SPINACH— II 

Clean  thoroughly,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
cook  in  a  large  double  boiler  without  liquid. 
Or,  put  into  a  covered  saucepan  and  steam. 
Drain  and  chop,  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  serve  with  a  border  of  poached  eggs. 
Or,  put  into  a  tightly  covered  saucepan  and  as 
soon  as  it  begins  to  cook  reduce  the  heat. 
Drain  in  a  colander  and  season  to  taste. 

BOILED  SPINACH— III 

Wash  each  leaf  thoroughly  in  several  waters. 
Remove  the  stalks.     Boil  in  salted  water,  drain, 

530 


Wentfi^Vlfne  Wi$w  to  Oooft  Spinacb    531 

and  chop  fine.  Press  out  the  liquid,  season 
with  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Vinegar  and  sugar  may  be  added.  Serve  with 
a  garnish  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Or  reheat  with 
stock  to  moisten  and  season  with  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt.  A  piece  of  salt  pork  may  be  cooked 
with  it. 

.  BOILED  SPINACH  A  L'ALLEMANDE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Spinach — I,  using  a  well-seasoned  stock 
for  liquid.  Drain,  chop,  and  reheat,  seasoning 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  moistening  with  cream 
or  butter. 

SPINACH  BALLS 

Press  all  possible  liquid  from  a  cupful  of  cooked 
and  chopped  spinach  and  reheat  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  flour  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cream.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
sugar,  and  mace.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  two 
eggs  well  beaten.  Cool  and  shape  into  balls  with 
buttered  spoons.  Simmer  in  boiling  water,  for 
five  or  six  minutes,  drain,  and  reheat  in  Cream 
Sauce  to  which  a  few  capers  may  be  added. 

BUTTERED  SPINACH 

Cook  two  quarts  of  spinach  according  to  direc- 
tions previously  given.  Drain  and  serve  with 
melted  butter.  Or,  chop  fine,  press  out  all  the 
liquid,  reheat  in  Cream  Sauce,  season  with  a 


$22  f)ow  to  Cook  i^edetables 

little  grated  nutmeg  and  at  the  last  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

CHARTREUSE  OF  SPINACH 

Butter  a  mould  and  line  it  with  thin  slices 
of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Fill  with  chopped  cooked 
spinach  well  drained,  pressing  in  firmly.  Put 
into  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  for  a  few 
moments.  Turn  out  and  serve  hot  with  Cream 
or  Drawn-Butter  Sauce  or  cold  with  Vinaigrette 
Sauce.     Individual  moulds  may  be  used. 

MOULDED  SPINACH— I 

Wash  thoroughly  and  drain  half  a  peck  of 
spinach.  Cook,  covered,  for  twenty  minutes  in 
salted  water,  using  as  little  as  possible.  Drain, 
chop,  press  out  the  liquid,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  butter,  and  pack  firmly  into  a  mould. 
Turn  out  and  serve  with  a  garnish  of  hard-boiled 
eggs.  Or,  mould  in  small  cups  and  serve  on 
toast  with  HoUandaise  Sauce.  If  desired  for 
a  garnish,  reheat  with  half  a  cupful  of  very 
thick  Brown  Sauce  and  season  with  grated 
nutmeg. 

MOULDED  SPINACH— II 

Chop  fine  two  cupfuls  of  cooked  spinach, 
pressing  out  all  the  liquid.  Mix  with  a  table- 
sx>oonful  of  fiour  cooked  in  butter  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  season.  Cook  for  five  minutes,  press 
into  small  buttered  moulds,  turn  out,  garnish 


trwent!{i«Mne  Wmsfi  to  Cood  Spinacb    533 

with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  serve  with 
Cream  Sauce. 

MOULDED  SPINACH— III 

Boil  spinach  for  fifteen  minutes  according  to 
directions  previously  given.  Drain,  press  out  the 
liquid,  chop  fine,  and  reheat,  seasoning  with  salt, 
pepper,  butter,  and  sugar.  Add  a  little  cream  if 
desired,  or  reheat  with  a  little  very  thick  Cream 
Sauce.  Press  into  a  wet  mould,  turn  out,  and 
garnish  with  sliced  or  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs. 

PUR^E  OP  SPINACH 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Spinach  k  la  Cr^me  and  press  through  a  sieve. 
Cook  to  a  smooth  thick  paste  and  serve. 

RISSOLES  OF  SPINACH 

Cut  squares  of  pastry  and  put  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  cooked  spinach  in  the  centre 
of  each  piece.  Fold  over,  press  together,  brush 
with  beaten  egg,  and  fry  in  fat  to  cover. 

STEWED  SPINACH 

Cook  a  peck  of  well-washed  spinach  in  a  double 
boiler  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  a  pinch  of  soda 
dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  hot  water  and 
cook  for  ten  minutes  longer.  Drain,  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  sugar,  and  lemon-juice, 
and  serve  with  a  garnish  of  hard-boiled  eggs 


$14  Dow  to  Cook  Ve^etabted 

crisp.  Seed  and  shred  six  green  peppers  and 
fry  separately  in  butter  or  drippings.  Pour 
the  peppers  and  bacon  with  the  fat,  ov^  boiled 
spaghetti  and  serve  with  grated  cheese. 

SPAGHETTI  CROQUETTES— I 

Chop  fine  cold  cooked  spaghetti,  season  with 
grated  cheese,  moisten  with  Tomato  Sauce, 
add  one  or  two  beaten  eggs,  and  cook  until 
smooth  and  thick.  Cool,  shape  into  croquettes, 
dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  serve 
with  Tomato  Sauce. 

SPAGHETTI  CROQUETTES— II 

Boil  one-fourth  pound  of  spaghetti,  chop  fine, 
and  reheat  in  a  cupful  of  very  thick  Cream 
Sauce.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  one  tablespoonf ul 
each  of  grated  cheese  and  minced  parsley, 
salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  the  beaten  yolks 
of  two  eggs.  Cool,  shape  into  croquettes,  dip 
in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve 
with  Cream  or  Tomato  Sauce. 

DEVILED  SPAGHETTI 

Boil,  drain,  and  chop  one-third  pound  of  spa- 
ghetti. Reheat  with  a  cupful  of  very  thick  Cream 
Sauce  to  which  three  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs 
and  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  minced  parsley  have  been 
added.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne,  onion-juice, 
and  grated  nutmeg.  Enough  pepper  should  be 
used  to  make  it  very  hot.     A  chopped  pimento 


0bittisi«9ne  TRIlaisd  to  Cooft  Spadbetti    515 

may  be  added.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake 
until  brown.  Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce  or 
Catsup. 

CREAMED  SPAGHETTI 

Reheat  boiled  spaghetti  in  well-seasoned  Cream 
Sauce  and  serve  with  grated  cheese. 

ESCALLOPED  SPAGHETTI  WITH 
OYSTERS 

Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  in  layers 
drained  oysters  and  boiled  spaghetti  cut  into 
small  pieces.  Season  each  layer  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  dots  of  butter.  Pour  over  enough  Cream 
Sauce  or  milk  to  moisten,  cover  with  crumbs, 
dot  with  butter,  and  bake  until  brown. 

GREEK  SPAGHETTI 

Chop  a  small  onion  fine,  fry  in  butter,  and  mix 
with  a  pound  and  a  half  of  lean  beef  chopped 
fine  and  fried  in  butter,  highly  seasoned  with 
black  and  white  pepper.  Fill  a  baking-dish 
with  alternate  layers  of  the  meat  and  boiled 
spaghetti,  seasoning  each  layer  with  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.     Bake  until  brown. 

SPAGHETTI  AND  CHEESE 

Cook  half  a  pound  of  spaghetti  in  boiling  salted 
water,    drain,  and    rinse.     Put    into    a    double 


5i6  f)ow  to  aooh  Dedetab(e0 

boiler  one  cupful  of  grated  cheese,  half  a  cupful 
or  a  cupful  of  milk  and  a  tablespoonful  or  two  of 
butter.  Cook  until  the  cheese  is  nearly  melted, 
stirring  constantly,  then  add  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  beaten  with  half  a  cupful  or  more  of  milk. 
Take  from  the  fire,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
mix  with  the  spaghetti,  put  into  a  baking-dish 
and  brown  in  the  oven.     Serve  immediately. 

SPAGHETTI  AND  SWISS  CHEESE 

Mix  grated  Swiss  cheese  with  a  little  melted 
butter  and  pour  over  boiled  spaghetti.  Cook 
until  the  cheese  is  meited  and  serve. 

SPAGHETTI  RAREBIT 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  half  a  cupful 
of  milk,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  half  a  pound  of 
grated  American  cheese.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler 
until  the  cheese  is  melted,  pour  over  boiled 
and  drained  spaghetti,  and  serve. 

SPAGHETTI    IN    CHEESE   SHELL 

Cook  together  for  an  hour  three  onions,  three 
cloves  of  garlic,  three  stalks  of  celery,  a  bunch 
of  parsley,  and  two  pounds  of  beef  cut  into  small 
pieces,  using  salted  boiling  water  to  cover. 
Add  two  cans  of  tomatoes  and  simmer  slowly 
tmtil  the  sauce  is  very  thick.  Press  through  a 
sieve.     Mix  the  sauce  with  cooked  and  drained 


TCbftts^^e  mum  to  Cooli  Spaabcttf    5x7 

spaghetti  and  serve  on  a  platter  or  in  a  cheese 
shell.     Serve  grated  cheese  with  it. 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE— I 

Rub  a  can  of  tomatoes  through  a  sieve,  add  a 
tablespoonful  each  of  butter,  sugar,  and  grated 
onion  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cook  to  a  smooth 
thick  paste  and  pour  over  boiled  spaghetti. 
Sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  serve. 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE— II 

Cook  a  can  of  tomatoes  for  twenty  minutes  with 
a  chopped  onion,  a  small  slice  of  ham,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  beef  extract,  and  a  clove  of  garlic.  Rub 
through  a  sieve  and  reheat  boiled  spaghetti 
in  the  sauce.  Serve  with  grated  cheese.  Or, 
moisten  the  boiled  spaghetti  with  veal  stock, 
sprinkle  with  cheese  and  mix  with  the  powdered 
yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

SPAGHETTI    WITH   TOMATO    SAUCE— III 

Cook  half  a  pound  of  spaghetti  with  a  slice 
of  onion,  two  cloves,  three  pepper-corns,  and  a 
bit  of  bay-leaf  in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover. 
Drain  and  mix  with  hot  oil  or  melted  butter. 
Pour  over  Tomato  Sauce  or  stewed  and  strained 
tomatoes.  Sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
and  serve. 

SPAGHETTI    WITH    TOMATO    SAUCE— IV 
Boil  a  handful  of  spaghetti  in  salted  water  with 


5i8  Dow  to  Cook  Deoetabled 

half  a  bay-leaf,  three  each  of  cloves  and  pepper- 
corns and  a  small  onion.  Drain,  moisten  with  oil 
or  melted  butter,  mix  with  Tomato  Sauce,  sprin- 
kled thickly  with  grated  cheese,  heat  for  a  mo- 
ment, and  serve. 

Ri:CHAUFF^  OP  SPAGHETTI 

Cut  cold  cooked  spaghetti  into  small  pieces 
and  reheat  in  Tomato  Sauce.  A  few  chopped 
mushrooms  and  olives  may  be  added  if 
desired.  Season  to  taste  and  serve  with  grated 
cheese. 

STEWED  SPAGHETTI 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  spaghetti,  drain,  and  reheat 
in  milk  to  cover.  Season  with  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt,  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  cheese,  and 
serve.  Or,  make  a  sauce  of  a  cupful  of  stewed 
tomatoes  seasoned  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  onion  and  a  pinch  each  of  cloves  and 
mace.  Thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
browned  in  butter  and  rub  through  a  sieve. 
Pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve  with  grated 
cheese. 

TIMBALE  OF  SPAGHETTI 

Mix  together  two  cupf uls  of  chopped  cooked 
meat,  half  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  two  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  onion- juice 
to  season.     Line  a  plain  buttered  mould  with 


trbittso^ne  Wsm  to  Cook  Spagbettf    5^9 

boiled  spaghetti,  coiling  it  around  evenly. 
Fill  the  mould  with  the  seasoned  meat,  put  into 
a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  bake  covered  for  half 
an  hour.  Turn  out  and  serve  with  Tomato 
Sauce. 


TWENTY-NINE  WAYS  TO  COOK 

SPINACH 

BOILED  SPINACH— I 

Cook  a  peck  of  well-washed  spinach,  uncovered, 
with  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes. 
Drain,  pressing  out  all  the  liquid.  Chop  fine, 
rub  through  a  sieve,  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
butter,  and  sugar,  and  moisten  with  stock,  gravy. 
Brown  Sauce,  or  Cream  Sauce.  Garnish  with 
hard-boiled  eggs  or  croutons.  It  may  be 
reheated  without  chopping  and  seasoned  with 
salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  vinegar. 

BOILED  SPINACH— II 

Clean  thoroughly,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
cook  in  a  large  double  boiler  without  liquid. 
Or,  put  into  a  covered  saucepan  and  steam. 
Drain  and  chop,  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  serve  with  a  border  of  poached  eggs. 
Or,  put  into  a  tightly  covered  saucepan  and  as 
soon  as  it  begins  to  cook  reduce  the  heat. 
Drain  in  a  colander  and  season  to  taste. 

BOILED  SPINACH— III 

Wash  each  leaf  thoroughly  in  several  waters. 
Remove  the  stalks.     Boil  in  salted  water,  drain, 

530 


tCvt^entSi'Vline  Wuw  to  Qodk  Spinacb    5^1 

and  chop  fine.  Press  out  the  liquid,  season 
with  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Vinegar  and  sugar  may  be  added.  Serve  with 
a  garnish  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Or  reheat  with 
stock  to  moisten  and  season  with  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt.  A  piece  of  salt  pork  may  be  cooked 
with  it. 

.  BOILED  SPINACH  A  L'ALLEMANDE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Spinach — I,  using  a  well-seasoned  stock 
for  liquid.  Drain,  chop,  and  reheat,  seasoning 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  moistening  with  cream 
or  butter. 

SPINACH  BALLS 

Press  all  possible  liquid  from  a  cupful  of  cooked 
and  chopped  spinach  and  reheat  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  flour  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cream.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
sugar,  and  mace.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  two 
eggs  well  beaten.  Cool  and  shape  into  balls  with 
buttered  spoons.  Simmer  in  boiling  water,  for 
five  or  six  minutes,  drain,  and  reheat  in  Cream 
Sauce  to  which  a  few  capers  may  be  added. 

BUTTERED  SPINACH 

Cook  two  quarts  of  spinach  according  to  direc- 
tions previously  given.  Drain  and  serve  with 
melted  butter.  Or,  chop  fine,  press  out  all  the 
liquid,  reheat  in  Cream  Sauce,  season  with  ft 


52a  t>ow  to  Ooofi  lt)e0etable0 

little  grated  nutmeg  and  at  the  last  add  two 
tablespoonftils  of  butter. 

CHARTREUSE  OF  SPINACH 

Butter  a  mould  and  line  it  with  thin  slices 
of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Fill  with  chopped  cooked 
spinach  well  drained,  pressing  in  firmly.  Put 
into  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  for  a  few 
moments.  Turn  out  and  serve  hot  with  Cream 
or  Drawn-Butter  Sauce  or  cold  with  Vinaigrette 
Sauce.     Individual  moulds  may  be  used. 

MOULDED  SPINACH— I 

Wash  thoroughly  and  drain  half  a  peck  of 
spinach.  Cook,  covered,  for  twenty  minutes  in 
salted  water,  using  as  little  as  possible.  Drain, 
chop,  press  out  the  liquid,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  butter,  and  pack  firmly  into  a  mould. 
Turn  out  and  serve  with  a  garnish  of  hard-boiled 
eggs.  Or,  mould  in  small  cups  and  serve  on 
toast  with  Hollandaise  Sauce.  If  desired  for 
a  garnish,  reheat  with  half  a  cupful  of  very 
thick  Brown  Sauce  and  season  with  grated 
nutmeg. 

MOULDED  SPINACH— II 

Chop  fine  two  cupfuls  of  cooked  spinach, 
pressing  out  all  the  liqviid.  Mix  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  cooked  in  butter  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  season.  Cook  for  five  minutes,  press 
into  small  buttered  moulds,  turn  out,  garnish 


tTvu^nts^fline  Wix^fi  to  tfook  Spfnacb    s^s 

with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  serve  with 
Cream  Sauce. 

MOULDED  SPINACH— III 

Boil  spinach  for  fifteen  minutes  according  to 
directions  previously  given.  Drain,  press  out  the 
liquid,  chop  fine,  and  reheat,  seasoning  with  salt, 
pepper,  butter,  and  sugar.  Add  a  little  cream  if 
desired,  or  reheat  with  a  little  very  thick  Cream 
Sauce.  Press  into  a  wet  mould,  turn  out,  and 
garnish  with  sliced  or  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs. 

PUR^E  OP  SPINACH 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Spinach  k  la  Cr^me  and  press  through  a  sieve. 
Cook  to  a  smooth  thick  paste  and  serve. 

RISSOLES  OF  SPINACH 

Cut  squares  of  pastry  and  put  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  cooked  spinach  in  the  centre 
of  each  piece.  Fold  over,  press  together,  brush 
with  beaten  egg^  and  fry  in  fat  to  cover. 

STEWED  SPINACH 

Cook  a  peck  of  well-washed  spinach  in  a  double 
boiler  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  a  pinch  of  soda 
dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  hot  water  and 
cook  for  ten  minutes  longer.  Drain,  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  sugar,  and  lemon-juice, 
and  serve  with  a  garnish  of  hard-boiled  eggs 


5^4  Dov  to  Cooft  H^edctablee 

sliced.     Or,  with  the  powdered  yolks  sifted  over 
it  and  the  minced  whites  as  a  border. 

SPINACH  SOUFFL^I 

Mix  a  cupful  of  cold  cooked  chopped  spinach 
with  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  and  stir  over 
the  fire  until  the  egg  is  set.  Cool,  then  fold  in 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Fill  a 
buttered  baking-dish  or  individual  souffle  dishes 
and  bake  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Serve 
immediately. 

SPINACH  SOUFFL^II 

Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  cooked 
spinach  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  season.  Cool,  mix  with  two  or  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  three  eggs.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish  and  bake  quickly.  The  cream 
may  be  omitted  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  used. 

SPINACH  SOUFFL^III 

Cook  and  chop  a  peck  of  spinach,  add  a  well- 
beaten  egg,  a  tablespoonftd  of  butter,  and  salt, 
sugar,  and  i)epper  to  season.  Cool,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  mix  thoroughly,  and 
fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs. 
Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with 
sugar,  and  bake,  covered,  for  ten  minutes,  then 
uncover  for  five.     Serve  immediately. 


Zy^cnt^^'ninc  VSUl^  to  Coofi  Spinacb    525 

SPINACH  SOUFFL^IV 

Mix  two  cupf  uls  of  cooked  chopped  spinach  with 
half  a  cupful  of  very  thick  Cream  Sauce  and  the 
yolks  of  one  or  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and,  if  desired,  grated 
nutmeg.  Cook  to  a  smooth  thick  paste,  cool,  fold 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  pile 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  dust  with  powdered 
sugar,  and  bake  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 
The  sugar  may  be  omitted. 

SPINACH  TIMBALE— -I 

Mix  together  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of 
chopped  cooked  spinach,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  bread-crumbs,  and  half  a  cupful  of  chopped 
mushrooms  fried  in  butter.  Season  with  cayenne 
and  nutmeg,  and  add  half  a  cupful  of  very 
thick  Cream  Sauce  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
well  beaten.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs,  fill  buttered  timbale  moulds,  and  bake 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water. 

SPINACH  TIMBALE— II 

Boil  a  peck  of  spinach  in  salted  water,  using 
as  little  as  possible,  drain,  cool,  and  chop  fine. 
Reheat  with  a  cupful  of  B^hamel  Sauce,  half 
a  cupful  of  stock,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter.  Cool,  and  mix  with  three-fourths  cupful 
of  minced  cooked  veal,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.      Put  into  a  but- 


536  f)ov^  to  Cook  ve^ctnWce 

tered  mould  and  bake  in  a  pan  of  water  for 
forty-five  minutes.  Turn  out  and  serve  with 
any  preferred  sauce. 

SPINACH  A  L' ALLEMANDB— I 

Boil  for  ten  minutes  in  salted  water.  Drain, 
rinse  in  cold  water,  press  dry,  chop  fine,  and 
reheat  in  butter.  Mix  with  bread-crumbs 
fried  in  butter  or  with  Drawn-Butter  Sauce. 
Or,  cook  the  cleaned  spinach  in  a  double  boiler 
without  liquid,  seasoning  with  salt  and  melted 
butter. 

SPINACH  A  L'  ALLEMANDB— II 

Wash  a  peck  of  spinach  thoroughly  and  soak 
for  an  hour  in  cold  water.  Cover  with  cold 
water,  bring  to  the  boil,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes. 
Drain,  rinse  thoroughly,  press  out  the  liquid, 
and  chop  fine.  Add  a  chopped  onion  fried, 
a  tablespoonful  of  cracker-crumbs  and  reheat, 
moistening  with  stock  or  water.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  ginger.  A  little  chopped  cooked 
sausage  may  be  mixed  with  it.  Serve  with  a 
garnish  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

SPINACH  A  L' ALLEMANDE—III 

Boil,  drain,  and  chop  a  peck  of  spinach.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  add  one  cupful 
of  bread-crumbs  fried  in  butter.  Moisten  with 
stock  if  required. 


SwentS'tline  WvsB  to  dooft  Spinacb    527 

SPINACH  A  LA  BABETTE 

Boil,  drain,  and  chop  a  peck  of  spinach  accord- 
ing to  directions  previously  given.  Press  out  the 
liquid,  moisten  with  Brown  Sauce,  season  with 
grated  onion,  and  add  one  or  two  well-beaten 
eggs.  Cook  until  smooth  and  thick,  and  serve 
with  a  garnish  of  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced. 

SPINACH  A  L'ANGLAISE 

Boil  cleaned  spinach  in  salted  water,  drain, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  grated 
nutmeg,  and  serve.  It  may  be  parboiled  for  ten 
minutes,  then  covered  with  cold  salted  water. 

SPINACH  A  LA  CRfeME 

Boil  together  in  salted  water  a  peck  of  cleaned 
spinach  and  one  large  head  of  lettuce.  Drain, 
rinse  in  cold  water,  press  out  all  the  liquid  and 
chop  fine.  Reheat  in  Cream  Sauce,  adding  a 
little  sugar  and  grated  nutmeg  to  the  seasoning. 
The  lettuce  may  be  omitted. 

SPINACH  A  L'ESPAGNOLE 

Reheat  chopped  cooked  spinach  in  Spanish 
Sauce. 

SPINACH  A  LA  FRANQAISE 

Boil  the  spinach  in  salted  water  until  tender. 
Drain,  chop,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
nutmeg  or  mace,  and  mix  with  a  little  Cream 


5dS  f)ow  to  Cook  VegctublCB 

or  B^hamel  Sauce.     Sugar  and  grated  lemons 
peel  may  be  added  if  desired. 

SPINACH  A  L'lTALIENNE 

Chop  a  very  small  onion  fine,  fry  in  it  butter, 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  bread-criunbs  or 
flour  and  one  cupful  of  stock.  Cook  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  with  half  a  peck  of 
spinach  cooked  according  to  directions  previously 
given,  reheat,  and  thicken  with  two  eggs  well 
beaten.  Garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced 
or  quartered. 

SPINACH  A  LA  MODE 

Clean  a  peck  of  spinach,  chop  fine  and  cook 
for  five  minutes  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  with  Cream 
Sauce  or  milk,  seasoning  with  powdered  sugar, 
and  serve.  Or  thicken  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
beaten  with  one-third  cupful  of  cream. 


THIRTY-TWO  WAYS  TO  COOK 

SQUASH 

BOILED  SQUASH— I 

Peel,  remove  the  seeds,  boil  trntil  tender,  drain, 
and  serve  with  melted  butter  or  White  Sauce. 
Or,  peel,  seed,  and  quarter  a  squash,  and  cook 
in  stock  to  cover,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper, 
butter,  and  a  little  sugar.  Drain,  add  butter 
and  lemon- juice  to  the  cooking  liquid,  pour 
over  the  squash,  and  serve.  Or,  cook  it  in 
milk,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  powdered 
mace. 

BOILED  SQUASH— II 

Cut  into  small  square  pieces,  peel,  and  boil 
tmtil  tender.  Drain  and  reheat  with  Drawn- 
Butter  Sauce  or  mash  through  a  colander,  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  serve.  Or, 
press  the  liquid  from  the  mashed  squash  and 
season  with  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and,  if  desired, 
a  little  cream.  Add  a  little  flour  if  too  moist. 
Heat  thoroughly  and  serve. 

BOILED  SUMMER  SQUASH 

Cut  into  small  pieces  and  cook  for  an  hour  in 
boiling  water,  then  drain  and  mash,  seasoning 

34  539 


530  1)ovp  to  CooR  !t^e0etable0 

with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.     Moisten  with  a 
little  cream,  and  serve. 

BOILED  WINTER  SQUASH 

Peel  and  cut  up,  removing  the  seeds,  and  cook 
slowly  imtil  soft  in  a  very  little  water.  Drain  and 
mash,  pressing  out  the  liquid,  and  season  with 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

BAKED  SQUASH— I 

Cut  into  two-inch  pieces,  remove  the  seeds  and 
strings,  put  into  a  baking-pan,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  bake,  basting  with  molasses 
and  melted  butter.  Keep  covered  during  the 
first  half  hour.  Serve  in  the  shells.  Or,  cut 
in  halves  and  bake,  covered,  for  two  hours,  re- 
move from  the  shell,  mash,  and  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 

BAKED  SQUASH— II 

Cut  up  a  squash  and  remove  the  rind.  Cook 
in  pieces  for  twenty  minutes  in  boiling  salted 
water,  drain,  put  into  a  baking-pan,  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  dot  with  butter,  add  enough  water 
to  moisten,  and  bake,  covered,  for  an  hour. 

BAKED  SQUASH— III 

Boil  and  mash  a  squash,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  butter,  and  add  two  eggs  beaten 
with  half  a  cupful  of  milk.     Mix  thoroughly. 


SbirtS'tCwo  HQlaisa  to  dooft  SaunBb    53< 

put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and  bake  until 
puffed  and  brown. 

BAKED  SUMMER  SQUASH 

Cut  the  squash  into  sections,  remove  the  seeds 
and  bake,  basting  with  melted  butter.  Sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  minced  parsley. 

BAKED  WINTER  SQUASH 

Split  the  squash,  remove  the  seeds,  and  bake 
until  tender.  Scoop  out  the  pulp,  mash  it, 
seasoning  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Fill 
the  shell,  cover  with* buttered  crumbs  and  brown. 

SQUASH  COMPOTE 

Cut  a  Hubbard  squash  into  pieces,  remove 
the  seeds,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  put  into  a 
kettle  with  the  cut  side  down.  Sprinkle  with 
a  cupful  of  sugar,  add  water  nearly  to  cover, 
and  cook  slowly  until  the  syrup  is  nearly  all 
absorbed. 

SQUASH  CROQUETTES 

Mix  a  pint  of  mashed  squash  with  half  a  cup- 
ful of  bread-crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Heat  thoroughly, 
shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

SQUASH  CAKES— I 
Boil,  mash,  and  cool  two  squashes,  season  with 


53^  f)ow  to  Cooft  it^edetabted 

salt  and  pepper,  add  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  melted 
butter,  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  enough  flour  sifted  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
baking-powder  to  make  a  smooth  batter.  Fry 
by  spoonfuls  on  a  hot  griddle  and  serve  hot  with 
butter. 

SQUASH  CAKES— II 

Mix  two  cupfuls  of  cold  mashed  squash  with 
two  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  enough  flour  sifted 
with  a  pinch  of  baking-powder  to  make  a  smooth 
batter.  Fry  on  a  griddle  by  spoonfuls  and  serve 
hot  with  melted  butter. 

CREAMED  SQUASH— I 

Steam  or  boil  small  pieces  of  squash,  drain,  and 
reheat  in  Cream  Sauce. 

CREAMED  SQUASH— II 

Boil,  drain,  and  mash  a  squash,  pressing  out 
the  liquid.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  melted  butter  and 
cream  and  one  egg  well  beaten.  Cook  for  fifteen 
minutes  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  frequently. 

ESCALLOPED  SQUASH— I 

Cut  crook-neck  squashes  in  slices,  peel,  and 
boil  in  salted  water  for  fifteen  minutes.  Drain 
and  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  in  layers,  sea- 
soning each  layer  with  sugar,  grated  nutmeg. 


i 


Zhitt^XLwo  WnB  to  Cooft  Squa0b     533 

and  bits  of  butter.  Pour  over  half  a  cupful  of 
water  and  bake  for  an  hour.  Serve  in  the  baking- 
dish. 

ESCALl^OPED  SQUASH— .II 

Boil  and  mash  a  squash.  Add  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  egg  well  beaten, 
pepper  and  salt  to  season,  and  milk  to  moisten. 
Fill  a  buttered  baking-dish  or  the  squash  shell, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
until  brown. 

PRIED  SQUASH 

Dip  pieces  of  squash  into  fritter  batter  and 
fry  in  deep  fat.  Or,  mix  two  cupf uls  of  mashed 
cooked  squash  with  three  well-beaten  eggs,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a 
smooth  batter.     Fry  by  spoonfuls  on  a  griddle. 

FRIED  SUMMER  SQUASH 

Cut  the  squash  in  slices,  dredge  with  seasoned 
flour,  and  saut^  in  butter  or  dip  in  crumbs,  then 
in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  It 
may  be  parboiled  for  five  minutes  before  frying. 
Or,  prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Fried  Egg  Plant. 

FLAKED  SQUASH 
Grate  cooked  squash  into  a  buttered  baking- 


534  f>ow  to  Coofi  !t^e0etable0 

dish.  Dot  with  butter,  taking  care  not  to  disturb 
the  flakes.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake. 
Serve  in  the  same  dish. 

MASHED  SQUASH 

Peel,  remove  the  seeds,  boil,  drain,  and  mash, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  butter,  and  grated 
nutmeg.    Moisten  with  cream,  reheat,  and  serve. 

ROASTED  SQUASH 

Peel  and  cut  into  long  strips.  Cook  in  the  pan 
with  a  roast,  basting  with  the  drippings. 

STUFFED  SQUASH— I 

Parboil  a  squash,  cut  in  two  and  scoop  out  the 
pulp.  Mix  with  a  chopped  fried  onion  and  half 
a  cupful  of  soaked  crumbs,  squeezed  dry.  Cook 
for  fifteen  minutes,  seasoning  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Take  from  the  fire,  mix  with  two  eggs 
well  beaten,  fill  the  shells,  sprinkle  with  crumbs, 
dot  with  butter,  and  bake  until  brown. 

STUFFED  SQUASH— II 

Chop  a  small  onion  fine,  fry  in  butter,  add 
half  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  soaked  in  cold 
water  and  squeezed  dry,  and  four  cupfuls  of 
mashed  squash.  Cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  sea- 
soning with  salt  and  pepper,  take  from  the  fire, 
add  a  beaten  egg  and  fill  the  squash  shell.  Cover 
with  buttered  crumbs  and  brown  in  the  oven. 


Zbitt^'Zvoo  HQlase  to  Cooft  Sctnneb    535 

STUFFED  SQUASH— III 

Peel  and  remove  the  centre  from  a  large  flat 
squash,  cutting  it  crosswise.  Fill  both  halves  with 
a  stuffing  of  chopped  meat  and  cnunbs,  season 
to  taste,  and  moisten  with  stock  or  milk.  Tie 
together  and  cook  in  stock  or  water. 

STUFFED  SQUASH— IV 

Simmer  two  small  summer  squashes  for  ten 
minutes  in  boiling  water  to  cover.  Cut  in  halves, 
scrape  out  the  pulp,  remove  the  seeds,  and  press 
dry.  Chop  fine  an  onion  and  two  cupfuls  of 
shrimps,  fry  in  lard,  add  a  chopped  tomato,  a 
bit  of  bay-leaf,  and  thyme,  parsley,  and  garlic 
to  season.  Add  a  cupful  of  crumbs,  the  squash 
pulp,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  one  egg 
well  beaten.  Cook  to  a  smooth  paste,  fill 
the  shells,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and 
bake  until  brown.  Crab  meat,  minced  ham,  or 
lobster  may  be  used  instead  of  the  shrimps. 

STUFFED  SQUASH— V 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  two  small  squashes.  Cool, 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  half  a  cupful  of  cream  or 
milk,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Turn  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with  crumbs, 
dot  with  butter,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 
Three  squashes  may  be  used  if  a  cupful  of  milk 
is  added. 


53^  V>OW  to  Cook  VCQ€tnb\€B 

STUFFED  SQUASH— vi 

Remove  the  pulp  and  seeds  from  a  summer 
squash  and  mix  the  seasoned  pulp  with  sausage 
meat  or  chopped  cooked  meat.  Fill  the  shell 
and  bake  for  forty-five  minutes. 

STEAMED  SQUASH 

Remove  the  top  of  a  small  Hubbard  squash, 
remove  the  seeds  and  strings,  and  steam  until 
tender.  Remove  the  pulp,  press  through  a  sieve, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  fill  the 
shell,  and  reheat  in  the  oven. 

STEAMED  WINTER  SQUASH 

Cut  in  pieces,  remove  seeds  and  strings,  steam 
until  soft,  mash  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper.    A  little  sugar  may  be  added  if  desired. 

SQUASH  AU  GRATIN— I 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Baked  Summer  Squash.  Rub  through  a  colan- 
der, season  with  pepper  and  salt,  moisten 
with  cream,  and  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish 
or  into  the  squash  shell.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs 
and  cheese  and  bake  until  brown. 

SQUASH  AU  GRATIN— II 

Cut  a  small  Hubbard  squash  in  halves  and 
steam  or  boil  until  tender.  Drain,  iremove  the 
pulp,  and  press  through  a  sieve.     Add  salt  and 


Sbftti2«Vwo  Wnw  to  dooft  Sauaeb    537 

pepper  to  season,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
one  tablespoonf  ul  of  milk  or  cream  and  the  beaten 
yoUc  of  an  egg.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  put  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish  or  into  the  squash  shell, 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  brown  in  the 
oven. 


ONE  HUNDRED  WAYS  TO  COOK 

TOMATOES 

BROILED  TOMATOES— I 

Peel  and  slice  large  tomatoes,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  broil,  basting  with  oil.  Or,  dip 
in  seasoned  crumbs  or  corn-meal  before  broil- 
ing.    Sprinkle  with  minced  parsley  if  desired. 

BROILED  TOMATOES— II 

Season  half  a  cupful  of  butter  highly  with  salt, 
pepper,  sugar,  and  made  mustard.  Pour  over 
broiled  tomatoes,  and  serve. 

BREADED  BROILED  TOMATOES 

Cut  in  thick  slices,  dip  in  seasoned  crumbs, 
then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  and  broil. 
When  taken  up  baste  with  butter  or  oil. 

BROILED  TOMATOES  WITH  SAUCE 

Season  Cream  Sauce  with  a  little  mace,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  When  smooth  and 
thick  add  a  well-beaten  egg  and  pour  it  over 
broiled  tomatoes.  Or,  serve  broiled  tomatoes 
with  highly  seasoned  melted  butter  mixed  with 
lemon-juice. 

538 


9ne  1)unDtcD  Waw-  to  Cooft  ^matoes    539 

BUTTERED  TOMATOES 

Peel  and  quarter  fresh  tomatoes,  removing 
the  seeds.  Stew  until  soft  in  very  hot  well- 
seasoned  butter,  add  more  butter,  and  serve. 

BAKED  TOMATOES— I 

Peel  the  tomatoes  and  put  into  a  baking-dish. 
Sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar  and  bake  until  the 
sugar  has  become  a  thick  syrup.  Or,  stufiE 
tomato  shells  with  seasoned  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake. 

BAKED  TOMATOES— II 

Cut  tomatoes  in  two  and  arrange  in  a  baking- 
dish,  cut  side  up.  Spread  with  butter,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  minced  parsley,  and  chives 
or  grated  onion.  Bake  until  done  and  serve 
in  the  same  dish.  ^ 

BAKED  TOMATOES— III 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each  tomato, 
scoop  out  the  pulp,  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
sugar,  or  minced  parsley,  replace  the  hd,  and 
bake  for  twenty  minutes.  A  little  butter  may 
be  put  in  each  one.  Grated  cheese  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  parsley.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs, 
if  desired,  before  baking. 

BAKED  TOMATOES— IV 

Cut  three  large  tomatoes  in  two.    Season  with 


540  Dow  to  dooft  Ve0etaK)led 

salt  and  paprika,  cover  with  chopped  green  pep- 
pers, dot  with  butter,  and  bake.  Serve  on  toast 
with  a  sauce  made  of  the  pan-gravy  and  half 
a  cupful  of  cream  thickened  with  a  tablespoonf ul 
of  flour  browned  in  butter. 

BAKED  TOMATOES— V 

Cut  into  halves  and  put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  skin  side  up,  packing  closely. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  a  large  lump 
of  butter  on  each  one,  and  bake  covered  until 
soft,  then  uncover  and  brown.  Take  up  care- 
fully, make  a  cream  gravy  in  the  pan,  pour  over 
the  tomatoes,  and  serve. 

BAKED  TOMATOES— VI 

Cut  tomatoes  in  halves,  put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  sprinkle  with  flour  or  crumbs, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  dots  of  butter,  and 
bake.  Or,  cut  a  slice  from,  the  top,  scoop  out  the 
pulp,  stuff  with  buttered  and  seasoned  crumbs, 
and  bake.  Mix  the  crumbs  with  part  of  the  pulp 
or  a  beaten  egg  if  desired,  or  minced  cooked 
meat,  or  chopi)ed  fried  onion,  or  both.  They 
may  be  served  with  Cream  Sauce  seasoned  witii 
minced  onion. 

BAKED  TOMATOES— VII 

Cut  the  tomatoes  in  halves,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  pack  them  into  a  baking-dish 
cut  side  ttp.     Bake  until  done  and  serve  on  rounds 


9nc  tiVMbxcb  Tnuisd  to  Ooofi  tEomatoe0    541 

of  toast.  Or,  make  a  paste  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
minced  garlic,  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  and  salt,  and  paprika 
to  season.  Spread  on  the  cut  surface  and  bake. 
Make  a  cream  gravy  in  the  pan  if  desired. 

BAKED  TOMATOES— VIII 

Scoop  out  the  pulp  of  six  tomatoes  according  to 
directions  previously  given  and  season  it  with 
salt,  pepper,  sugar,  onion-juice,  and  oil.  Fill 
the  shells,  replace  the  lids,  and  bake,  covered, 
for  twenty-five  minutes,  basting  with  seasoned 
oil.     Serve  on  toast. 

BAKED  TOMATOES— IX 

Drain  the  pulp  of  six  tomatoes  and  mix  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  cracker-crumbs,  seasoning 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  onion- juice.  Fill  the 
shells,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake 
for  twenty  minutes.  Chopped  cooked  chicken 
or  veal  and  a  beaten  egg  may  be  added.  Season 
with  minced  onion,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  cook  to  a  smooth  paste,  cover  with 
buttered  crumbs,  and  bake. 

BAKED  TOMATOES— X 

Rub  a  can  of  tomatoes  through  a  sieve,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  one  tablespoonful 
each  of  butter  and  cracker-crumbs.  Put  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 
Serve  in  the  same  dish. 


54a  f)ow  to  aooft  M^CQCtnblce 

BAKED  TOMATOES  A  LA  CREOLE 

Peel  and  cut  in  two  three  large  tomatoes. 
Chop  fine  a  green  pepper  and  an  onion  and  spread 
over  the  tomato.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  dot  with 
butter,  and  bake,  basting  with  the  pan  gravy. 
Add  half  a  cupful  of  cream  or  milk  to  the  pan- 
gravy,  thicken  it  with  flour  cooked  in  butter,  and 
pour  the  sauce  over  the  tomatoes.  Serve  on 
toast. 

SLICED  BAKED  TOMATOES 

Put  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  seasoning  each  layer  with  salt, 
pepper,  butter,  and  a  very  little  white  sugar. 
Add  a  few  crumbs  if  desired.  Bake  covered 
for  half  an  hour,  then  uncover  and  brown. 
If  desired,  moisten  with  melted  butter  and  pour 
over  a  few  spoonfuls  of  unsweetened  whipped 
cream. 

BAKED  TOMATOES  WITH  EGGS 

Fry  a  chopped  onion  in  butter,  add  a  cupful  of 
bread-crumbs  and  the  pulp  and  juice  taken 
from  six  tomatoes.  Cook  to  a  smooth  paste, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  minced  parsley. 
Fill  the  tomato  shells,  bake  for  twenty  minutes, 
break  a  fresh  egg  into  each  one,  and  bake  until 
the  egg  is  set.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
serve. 


9ne  f)unOted  Wn^  to  OooFi  ;romatoe0    543 


CREAMED  BAKED  TOMATOES 

Make  a  Cream  Sauce,  seasoning  with  celery 
salt  and  onion-juice.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of 
the  sauce  into  a  ramekin,  add  a  small  peeled  to- 
mato and  cover  with  the  sauce.  Spread  buttered 
crumbs  over  the  top  and  bake  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water  for  half  an  hour.     Serve  in  the  ramekins. 

CORN  AND  TOMATOES 

Drain  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish  in  alternate  layers  with  a  can  of  com, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  butter, 
and  sprinkling  with  crumbs.  Cover  with  crumbs, 
dot  with  butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Or, 
reheat  a  cupful  each  of  stewed  tomatoes  and 
boiled  corn,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar, 
and  onion-juice,  and  serve. 

TOMATO  CROQUETTES 

Cook  together  for  twenty  minutes  half  a  can  of 
tomatoes,  three  cloves,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
a  thick  slice  of  onion,  and  salt  and  paprika  to 
season.  Work  together  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  four  teaspoonfuls  of  corn-starch. 
Rub  the  tomatoes  through  a  sieve,  thicken  with 
the  butter  and  corn-starch,  boil  up,  and  add  one 
egg  slightly  beaten.  Cool,  cut  into  shapes,  dip 
in  crumbs,  then  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
fat  to  cover. 


544  1)o\^  to  dooft  Ve0etabte0 

TOMATO  AND  RICE  CROQUETTES 

Cook  lialf  a  cupf td  of  rice  in  three-fourths  cup- 
ful of  stock  until  the  liquid  is  absorbed.  Cook 
half  a  can  of  tomatoes  for  twenty  minutes  with  a 
sUce  each  of  onion  and  carrot,  a  sprig  each  of 
parsley  and  thyme,  two  cloves,  six  pepper-corns, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Rub  through  a 
sieve,  mix  with  the  rice,  and  reheat.  Take  from 
the  fire,  add  one  egg  well  beaten,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  grated  cheese,  one  tablespoonf  ul  of 
butter,  and  salt  and  cayenne  to  season.  Cool, 
shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  crumbs,  then  in 
egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

CURRIED  TOMATOES— I 

Chop  fine  an  onion  and  an  apple  and  fry  in 
butter,  seasoning  highly  with  curry  powder. 
Moisten  with  stock  or  gravy  and  spread  on 
fried  or  baked  tomatoes. 

CURRIED  TOMATOES— II 

Grate  a  small  onion  and  fry  in  butter  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  curry  powder.  Fry  tomatoes  in 
the  same  fat.  Green  tomatoes  may  be  used. 
Make  a  cream  gravy  in  the  pan  if  desired. 

CURRIED  TOMATOES— III 

Reheat  a  can  of  tomatoes  with  minced  onion 
and  curry  powder  to  season.  Put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish    with    alternate    layers    of    boiled 


^ne  IbunDceO  Wivsfi  to  aooft  Somatoea    545 

rice,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and 
bake  until  brown.  Or,  season  with  curry 
powder  and  minced  fried  onion  and  pour  over 
boiled  rice.     Serve  with  baked  bananas. 

CURRIED  TOMATOES— IV 

Fry  a  chopped  onion  in  butter  and  saut^  sliced 
tomatoes  in  the  same  fat.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
curry  powder  and  serve.  Or,  put  peeled  toma- 
toes in  layers  in  a  baking-dish,  alternating 
with  boiled  rice  and  sliced  okra,  seasoning 
with  salt,  butter,  cayenne,  sugar,  and  curry 
powder.  Have  butter  on  top  and  sprinkle 
with  crumbs  if  desired.  Bake,  covered,  for  an 
hour  and  serve  in  the  baking-dish. 

CURRIED  TOMATOES— V 

Peel  and  quarter  five  tomatoes.  Fry  two 
onions  in  butter,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  curry 
powder,  a  bay-leaf,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a 
cupful  of  hot  water.  Bring  to  the  boil,  put  in  the 
tomatoes,  cover  and  simmer  for  twenty  minutes. 
Skim  out  the  tomatoes,  arrange  on  a  bed  of 
boiled  rice,  strain  the  sauce  over,  and  serve. 
Or,  cook  the  tomatoes  for  ten  minutes  with  a 
tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  minced  onion 
and  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  curry  powder. 
Put  a  layer  of  sHced  okra  in  a  baking-dish,  cover 
with  seasoned  tomato,  sprinkle  with  crumbs, 
dot  with  butter,  and  repeat  until  the  dish  is  full, 
having    crumbs    and    butter    on    top.     Bake 

35 


546  t>c^  to  Oooh  Ueoetable^ 

for  half  an  hour,  then  uncover  and  brown. 
Sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts  and  serve  in  the 
same  dish.  Make  a  Drawn-Butter  Sauce,  sea- 
soned with  lemon-Juice  and  cayenne,  and  serve 
immediately. 

CURRIED  TOMATOES  AND  OKRA 

Season  stewed  tomatoes  with  salt,  pepper, 
butter,  and  curry  powder.  Put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish  in  alternate  layers  with  sliced  okra, 
sprinkling  the  tomatoes  with  minced  onion  and 
crumbs.  Cover  with  a  thick  layer  of  boiled  rice 
and  bake,  covered,  for  half  an  hour.  Or,  put 
a  cupful  of  boiled  rice  between  the  layers  and 
omit  the  crumbs.  Serve  with  Drawn-Butter 
Sauce,  seasoning  with  lemon-juice.  Chopped 
nuts  may  be  sprinkled  on  the  rice. 

DEVILED  TOMATOES— I 

Mix  together  the  mashed  yolks  of  three  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  powdered 
sugar  and  made  mustard,  and  a  pinch  each  of 
salt  and  cayenne.  Add  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  and,  gradually,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar  or  lemon- juice.  Bring  to  the  boil, 
add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  until  thick.  Pour  over  fried  or  boiled 
tomatoes  and  serve.  Or,  serve  with  a  Maltre 
d'Hdtel  Sauce  made  hot  with  mustard  and 
cayenne. 


d^ne  f)ttndted  TBiaed  to  Cook  tComatoed   547 

DEVILED  TOMATOES— II 

Mix  together  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
mustard  and  salt  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  and  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  until  smooth  and  thick,  beating  constantly. 
Pour  over  fried  or  broiled  tomatoes  and  serve. 

DEVILED  TOMATOES— III 

Mix  together  one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter 
and  vinegar,  the  mashed  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled 
GgZy  ^  teaspoonful  each  of  sugar  and  mustard, 
and  salt  and  cayenne  to  season  highly.  Bring 
to  the  boil,  add  one  egg  well  beaten,  and  cook 
until  smooth  and  thick.  Pour  over  fried  or 
broiled  tomatoes  and  serve. 

DEVILED  TOMATOES— IV 

Mix  together  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  mustard,  salt  and  cayenne  to  season, 
the  yolk  of  one  hard-boiled  egg^  mashed  smooth, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  one  egg  slightly 
beaten.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly,  and  pour  over  fried  or 
broiled  tomatoes. 

DEVILED  TOMATOES— V 
Mash  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  with 


548  "bow  to  Cooii  It^e^etablcd 

one  tablespoonful  each  of  melted  butter  and 
vinegar,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  pinch 
each  of  salt,  mustard,  and  cayenne.  Bring  to  the 
boil)  thicken  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg^  and 
pour  over  fried  or  broiled  tomatoes. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES— I 

Put  sliced  tomatoes  in  layers  in  a  baking-dish, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  dots  of  but- 
ter, and  onion-juice  if  desired,  alternating  with 
crumbs.  Have  the  top  layer  of  crumbs  and 
butter.  A  cupful  of  stock  may  be  poured  over. 
Cover  and  bake  until  well  done,  then  tmcover 
and  brown.  A  little  sugar  may  be  added  to  the 
seasoning.  Or,  season  each  layer  of  tomatoes 
with  minced  onion  and  grated  cheese  and  have 
crumbs  on  top.  Green  tomatoes  may  be  used, 
or  drained  canned  tomatoes. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Escalloped  Tomatoes — I,  sprinkling  the  layers 
of  tomato  with  minced  onion  and  salt  pork. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES— III 

Mix  together  half  a  can  of  tomatoes,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs,  a  small  onion  chopped, 
and  salt,  sugar,  and  pepper  to  season.  Pour  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish.  Beat  together  one 
and  one-half  cupfuls  of  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of 


^ne  1)unDteD  tnias6  to  Coofi  Uomatoes    549 

sugar,  and  four  eggs.     Pour  over  the  tomato 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  forty  minutes. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES— IV 

Mix  two  cupf uls  of  canned  tomatoes,  one  cupful 
of  bread-crumbs  and  one-third  cupful  of  grated 
cheese,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  pour 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish .  Cover  with  buttered 
crtunbs,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and  bake 
for  twenty  minutes. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES— V 

Butter  a  baking-dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  thinly 
sliced  onion,  and  cover  with  two  layers  of  sliced 
tomatoes  dipped  in  egg  and  crumbs.  Dot  with 
butter  and  bake  until  brown. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES— VI 

Season  half  a  can  of  tomatoes  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  grated  onion  and  mix  with  a  cupful  of 
finely  cut  celery;  put  half  of  it  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  cover  with  buttered  and  seasoned 
crtunbs,  and  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  cheese. 
Put  in  the  rest  of  the  tomatoes,  cover  with  but- 
tered crumbs,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and 
bake  until  brown. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES  AND  MACARONI 

Fill  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  alternate 
layers   of   cooked    and    broken   macaroni   and 


550  f>o\v  to  CooK  Ve0etable0 

drained  canned  tomatoes,  seasoning  each  layer 
with  butter,  i)epper,  and  salt,  sprinkling  over 
crumbs  with  grated  cheese.  Fill  the  dish  with 
milk  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES  AND  CORN 

Arrange  in  alternate  layers  in  a  buttered  bak- 
ing-dish sHced  tomatoes  and  com  cut  from  the 
cob,  seasoning  with  minced  salt  pork  and  onion, 
pepper,  salt,  and  sugar.  Have  tomatoes  on  top. 
Cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
covered  for  half  an  hour,  then  uncover  and 
brown. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES  AND  ONIONS 

Fill  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  alternate  lay- 
ers of  sliced  tomatoes  and  fried  or  parboiled 
sliced  onions,  seasoning  each  layer  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  butter,  and  sprinkling  with  crumbs. 
Cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
for  forty-five  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  grated 
cheese  if  desired. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES  AND  POTATOES 

Season  a  pint  of  peeled  and  chopped  tomatoes 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  onion- juice.  Peel  and 
chop  half  the  quantity  of  boiled  potatoes.  Put 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish  in  alternate  layers, 
sprinkling  the  tomatoes  with  cracker-crumbs 
and  cheese.  Cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  but- 
ter, and  bake  for  half  an  hour.     Canned  toma- 


9ne  f>un^te^  Winw  to  Cool\  Vomatoed    551 

toes  may  be  used  and  rice  or  com  substituted 
for  the  potatoes. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES  AND  RICE 

Season  a  can  of  tomatoes  with  salt  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  curry  powder.  Put  into  a  baking- 
dish  in  alternate  layers  with  a  cupful  of  well- 
washed  rice,  having  tomatoes  on  top.  Cover 
with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  for  half 
an  hour. 

TOMATO  PARCI 

Cut. four  tomatoes  in  halves  and  put  into  a 
frying-pan  whole  side  down,  in  half  an  inch  of  hot 
fat.  Cook  slowly  until  nearly  tender.  Drain 
and  put  into  a  baking-dish  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  olive-oil,  a  tablespoonful  each  of  minced 
onion,  and  parsley,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne 
to  season  highly.  Bake  for  twenty  minutes  and 
serve  in  a  baking-dish. 

TOMATO  FRITTERS— I 

Cook  together  for  twenty  minutes  a  can  of 
tomatoes,  six  cloves,  two  tablespoonf uls  of  sugar, 
and  a  small  onion  sliced.  Rub  through  a  sieve 
and  add  half  a  cupful  of  corn-starch  rubbed 
smooth  in  water,  and  melted  butter,  salt,  and 
cayenne  to  season,  and  a  beaten  egg.  Stir  until 
cooked  then  pour  into  a  buttered  shallow  tin, 
cool,  cut  into  shapes,  dip  in  crtimbs,  then  in  egg 
and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 


553  l>ow  to  Coolt  v^e^etabled 

TOMATO  FRITTERS— II 

Make  a  batter  of  one  cupful  each  of  flour  and 
warm  water,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Fold  in  the  beaten  white  of  an 
egg  and  dip  thick  seasoned  slices  of  tomatoes 
into  the  batter.     Fry  brown  in  deep  fat. 

TOMATO  FRITTERS— III 

Cook  together  for  ten  minutes  a  can  of  toma- 
toes, a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  sugar,  and 
pepper  to  season.  Thicken  with  a  tablespoonful 
each  of  butter  and  flour  cooked  together  and  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Cut  stale  bread  into  strips 
and  soak  until  nearly  soft  in  the  sauce.  Dip  in 
egg  and  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

FRIED  TOMATOES— I 

Peel  and  slice  large  fresh  tomatoes,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  sugar,  and  dredge  with  flour  or 
dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  and  saut^  in 
butter  or  drippings.  Or,  fry  in  deep  fat.  The 
egg  and  crumbs  may  be  omitted  if  the  tomatoes 
are  sauted.  Make  a  Cream  Sauce  in  the  pan  if 
desired,  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes.  Green 
tomatoes  may  be  prepared  the  same  way  and 
a  little  minced  onion  sauted  with  them.  If  fried 
in  deep  fat,  tomatoes  may  be  double-breaded. 

FRIED  TOMATOES— II 

Use  very  small  tomatoes  and  fry  whole  in 
deep  fat,  dipping  in  egg  and  crumbs  if  desired. 


®ne  DunDreD  mnw  to  (tooft  tlomntocB    553 

FRIED  TOMATOES— III 

Season  sliced  tomatoes  with  salt,  paprika,  sugar 
and  onion- juice,  dip  in  com-meal  or  fritter  bat- 
ter, and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

FRIED  TOMATOES  WITH  CREAM 

Cut  six  large  tomatoes  in  half,  and  saut^ 
the  cut  side  in  butter  or  drippings.  Take  up 
the  tomatoes  and  cook  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
in  the  fat.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  hot  milk  and 
cook  to  a  thick  sauce,  seasoning  with  salt  and 
cayenne.     Pour  over  the  tomatoes,  and  serve. 

CREAMED  FRIED  TOMATOES 

Dip  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes  in  cracker 
crumbs  or  seasoned  flotir  and  fry  brown  in  butter 
or  bacon  fat.  Make  a  cream  gravy,  using  the 
fat  in  the  pan.  Pour  over  and  serve.  Green 
tomatoes  may  be  used  in  the  same  way.  Or, 
dip  in  egg  and  crumbs  before  fr3ring. 

FRIED  GREEN  TOMATOES 

Slice  green  tomatoes  and  soak  for  ten  minutes 
in  cold  salted  water.  Drain,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
dip  in  com-meal,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Season 
to  taste. 

FRIED  TOMATOES  WITH  ONIONS 

Slice  onions  and  green  tomatoes  thin  and  fry 
in  drippings. 


554  l^ow  to  Cook  iMetablee 

FRIED  TOMATOES  AND  PEPPERS 

Seed  and  shred  six  green  peppers  and  slice 
three  tomatoes.  Fry  in  olive-oil  with  a  chopped 
onion  and  a  bean  of  garlic  and  serve  on  toast. 

PILAU  OF  TOMATOES 

Press  through  a  sieve  a  can  of  tomatoes,  keep- 
ing back  the  seeds,  and  reheat  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  stock.  Add  two  chopped  onions 
fried  in  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
Bring  to  the  boil,  add  one  pound  of  well-washed 
rice,  and  simmer  until  the  tomato  is  absorbed. 
Add  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and 
keep  warm  for  twenty  minutes.  The  onion  may 
be  omitted.  Season  with  pepper  and  serve  very 
hot.  Chopped  cooked  meat  may  be  added  if 
desired. 

TOMATO  PUR^E 

Cut  up  a  dozen  tomatoes,  season  with  salt  and 
cayenne,  add  an  onion,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  sprig 
of  thyme,  a  bay-leaf  and  enough  stock  to  moisten. 
Simmer  until  reduced  to  a  pulp.  Take  out  the 
herbs,  rub  through  a  sieve  and  thicken  with  a  lit- 
tle flour  cooked  in  butter,  adding  a  little  stock  or 
cream,  if  necessary,  to  moisten. 

ROASTED  TOMATOES 

Cook  unpeeled  tomatoes  for  an  hour  in  a  pan 
with  a  roast,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
basting  with  the  drippings. 


One  t)ttn^te^  Wixse  to  Cooft  Vomatoes    555 

STEWED  TOMATOES— I 

Peel  and  cut  up  the  tomatoes  and  cook  for 
fifteen  minutes.  The  stew  may  be  thickened 
with  corn-starch  rubbed  smooth  with  a  little 
cold  water  or  with  crumbs  or  with  butter  rolled 
in  flour.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter, 
and  add  a  little  sugar  if  desired.  A  little  minced 
onion  may  be  added. 

STEWED  TOMATOES— II 

Slice  six  tomatoes,  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter,  add  a  chopped  onion,  and  cook  covered 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  stock 
and  cook  slowly  until  soft.  Boil  half  a  cupful 
of  well-washed  rice,  drain,  mix  with  the  tomatoes, 
reheat,  and  moisten  with  a  little  Brown  Sauce. 
Add  a  little  sugar  if  desired. 

STEWED  TOMATOES— III 

Put  six  or  eight  ripe  tomatoes  into  a  saucepan 
with  enough  brown  stock  or  gravy  to  reach  to 
half  their  height.  Cook  until  tender,  turning 
once.  Thicken  the  cooking  liquid  with  fiour 
browned  in  butter  and  serve  the  sauce  potu^d 
over  the  tomatoes. 

STEWED  TOMATOES— IV 

Peel  and  quarter  fresh  tomatoes  and  cook, 
uncovered,  for  an  hour.  Drain  off  the  juice  and 
simmer  slowly  for  another  hour.     Drain  again, 


55^  t>ow  to  CooK  vedetablee 

season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  add  a 
little  sugar  if  desired.  Save  the  drained  liquid 
for  soup.  Or,  after  the  first  draining,  add  a  half 
cupful  of  stale  bread-crumbs  and  a  little  grated 
onion. 

STEWED  TOMATOES— V 

Peel  and  slice  fresh  tomatoes,  cook  for  twenty 
minutes,  and  drain  off  the  liquid.  Season  the 
tomatoes  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  onion 
and  thicken  with  a  little  flour  cooked  in  butter. 

STEWED  TOMATOES— VI 

Peel  the  tomatoes  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg, 
and  adding  a  liberal  amount  of  butter.  Minced 
onion  or  sugar  may  be  added  to  the  seasoning. 
Raw  rice  may  be  cooked  with  them,  or  stale 
bread  may  be  crumbed  in  when  they  are  nearly 
done. 

STEWED  TOMATOES— VII 

Cook  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  a  chopped  onion 
together,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar. 
Thicken  with  flour  cooked  in  butter  and  add  a 
little  cream.  Cook  until  smooth  and  thick,  sea- 
son with  vinegar  or  lemon-juice,  and  serve. 

STEWED  GREEN  TOMATOES— I 

Fry  three  sliced  onions  in  drippings  and  add 
six  peeled  and  sliced  green  tomatoes.     Sprinkle 


^ne  f>unt>teO  THlai^d  to  cooli  Xiomatoce    557 

with  salt  and  pepper,  cook  for  five  minutes, 
and  add  half  a  cupful  of  hot  water.  Cover 
and  sinuner  until  the  tomatoes  are  done,  add  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  serve. 

STEWED  GREEN  TOMATOES— II 

Trim  and  slice  enough  green  tomatoes  to  make 
a  quart.  Cook  tmtil  soft  without  liquid  and 
thicken  with  a  beaten  egg  and  half  a  cupftd  of 
crumbs.  Season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  may  be  cooked  with 
the  tomatoes. 

STEWED  TOMATOES   WITH   CHEESE 

Stew  fresh  tomatoes  according  to  directions 
previously  given  and  add  a  cupful  of  grated  Amer- 
ican cheese  and  three  eggs  well  beaten.  It 
will  be  richer  if  the  tomatoes  are  cooked  in  stock. 

STEWED  CANNED  TOMATOES 

Cook  for  fifteen  minutes  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Thicken  with  cracker 
crtunbs  or  with  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch 
rubbed  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water. 

STEWED  TOMATOES  AND  CELERY 

Stew  a  can  of  tomatoes  with  two  or  three  stalks 
of  celery  cut  fine.  Thicken  with  flour  cooked  in 
butter  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  sugar, 
and  a  little  cinnamon  or  nutmeg. 


55^         'tew  to  (tooh  Ve0etabte0 

STEWED  TOMATOES  AND  CORN 

Cook  together  two  cupfuls  of  tomatoes  and 
one  cupful  of  com  cut  from  the  cob.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  and,  if  desired,  a 
little  boiling  cream.  The  com  may  be  omitted 
and  three  beaten  eggs  added.  Canned  vegetables 
may  be  used. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— I 

Make  a  stuffing  of  one  cupful  each  of  minced 
ham  and  chopped  mushrooms,  half  a  cupful  of 
bread-crumbs,  the  tomato  pulp  and  juice,  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  minced  parsley, 
and  melted  butter.  StuS.  a  dozen  tomatoes 
and  bake  for  twenty  minutes,  basting  with 
melted  butter.  Cold  chicken  or  veal  or  cold 
fish  may  be  substituted  for  the  ham. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— II 

Mix  together  half  a  pound  of  chopped  cooked 
ham,  two  cupfuls  of  bread-crumbs,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  minced  parsley,  a  chopped  onion, 
one  clove  of  garlic  minced,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter.  Mix  thoroughly,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stuff  six  or  more 
tomato  shells.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter,  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes,  basting 
with  oil  or  melted  butter.  Serve  with  broiled 
ham. 


Ane  f)ttnbteb  tRIkisd  to  tfook  tfomatoed   559 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— III 

Make  a  stuffing  of  minced  cooked  chicken  or 
ham,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and 
onion-juice,  and  stuff  six  tomatoes  according  to 
directions  previously  given.  Pack  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  fill  the  spaces  with  seasoned  crtunbs, 
moisten  with  stock,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
covered  for  half  an  hour.  Serve  in  the  baking- 
dish  or  take  up  and  make  a  cream  gravy  in  the 
pan,  omitting  flour,  and  adding  a  bit  of  soda. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— IV 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each  of  four  large 
tomatoes  and  scoop  out  as  much  of  the  pulp  as 
possible.  Chop  the  pulp  with  one-fourth  pound 
of  cooked  ham  and  three  small  onions.  Season 
with  salt,  cayenne,  sugar,  vinegar,  and  a  little 
powdered  thyme.  Cook  for  fifteen  minutes, 
then  fill  the  tomato,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake, 
basting  occasionally  with  melted  butter  or  stock. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— V 

Make  a  stuffing  of  a  cupful  of  chopped  cooked 
meat,  half  a  cupful  or  more  of  bread-crumbs,  a 
tablespoonful  each  of  minced  parsley  and  melted 
butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Moisten 
with  stock  or  milk.  Stuff  six  tomato  shells,  dot 
with  butter,  sprinkle  with  onion-juice,  and  bake, 
basting  with  hot  water.  Or,  mix  a  cupful  of 
boiled  rice  with  a  chopped  onion,  season  with  salt. 


56o  l)ow  to  Cooft  lt)edetable0 

pepper,  and  butter.  Stuff  the  tomato  shells  and 
bake.  Or,  make  a  stuffing  of  a  cupful  of  grated 
com,  half  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  a  tablespoon- 
f  ul  each  of  milk  and  butter,  and  salt,  pepper,  and 
sugar  to  season. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— VI 

Mix  the  scooped-out  tomato  pulp  with  bread 
soaked  in  milk  and  season  with  minced  pars- 
ley, grated  onion,  salt,  and  pepper.  Add  a  few 
chopped  mushrooms  if  desired  and  a  little 
chopped  cooked  meat.  Fill  the  tomato  shells, 
dot  with  butter,  and  bake. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— VII 

Chop  fine  half  a  pound  of  cold  steak  and  a  slice 
of  bacon.  Season  with  chopped  fried  onion, 
salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  and  minced  parsley.  Add 
two  tablespoonf  uls  of  cracker-crumbs,  and  moisten 
with  stock  or  water.  Stuff  six  tomatoes  and 
bake  for  an  hour,  basting  with  stock  or  butter 
and  water.  Or,  fill  the  tomatoes  nearly  full 
with  minced  cooked  chicken  or  veal  nicely 
seasoned.  When  nearly  done  break  in  a  beaten 
egg  and  cook  until  the  egg  is  set. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— VIII 

Make  a  stuffing  of  the  chopped  pulp  of  six 
tomatoes,  an  equal  quantity  of  crumbs,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  half  as  much  chopped 
meat,  oysters,  or  cooked  spaghetti  as  crumbs. 


®ne  f)un5rci)  Win^  to  Cooft  ^omatoed    561 

Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  chopped  onion, 
which  may  be  fried.  Fill  the  tomato  shells,  cover 
with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  for  ten  minutes. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES—IX 

Make  a  stuffing  of  the  pulp  of  six  tomatoes 
mixed  with  chopped  cooked  sweet-breads  and 
mushrooms,  Mix  with  a  cupful  of  B^hamel 
Sauce  and  season  with  minced  parsley.  Fill  the 
tomato  shells,  bake  until  tender,  and  serve  on 
rounds  of  toast  or  fried  bread. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— X 

Make  a  stuffing  of  one  cupful  of  grated  com,  half 
a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  a  pinch  of 
sugar,  and  salt  and  cayenne  to  season,  or  a  cupful 
of  chopped  cooked  duck,  half  a  cupful  of  boiled 
rice,  stock  to  moisten,  and  salt,  paprika,  and 
curry  powder  to  season.  Stuff  six  tomatoes, 
cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
for  half  an  hour. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— XI 

Chop  fine  cold  cooked  chicken,  veal,  or  fish,  and 
mix  a  cupful  of  it  with  a  cupful  of  bread-crtmibs. 
Add  one  tablespoonful  each  of  minced  ham 
and  parsley,  a  small  onion  grated,  one  egg 
well  beaten,  and  salt,  sugar,  and  cayenne  to 
season.  Cook  to  a  smooth  thick  paste,  with  part 
of  the  pulp  scooped  from  six  tomatoes.     Fill 

36 


569  1)ow  to  Cooft  Ve0etabte0 

the  shells,  cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with  butter, 
and  bake  for  half  an  hour.  Serve  with  Tomato 
Sauce. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— XII 

Make  a  stuffing  of  one  cupful  of  chopped  mush- 
rooms, half  a  cupful  each  of  minced  cooked 
chicken  and  bread-crumbs  or  boiled  rice,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  cream, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  The  mushrooms 
may  be  omitted  if  twice  as  much  chicken  is  used 
and  a  little  minced  parsley  added  to  the  seasoning. 
Stuff  six  tomatoes  according  to  directions  pre- 
viously given,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— XIII 

Chop  a  small  onion  fine,  and  fry  it  in  butter 
with  six  chopped  mushrooms  and  a  heaping 
tablespoonf  ul  of  sausage  meat  or  chopped  cooked 
chicken.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs, 
the  pulp  scooped  from  six  tomatoes,  and  salt, 
pepper,  and  minced  parsley  to  season.  Cook 
to  a  smooth  paste,  fill  the  tomato  shells,  and 
bake,  basting  with  melted  butter  and  hot  water. 
Half  a  pound  of  chicken  livers  may  be  used  instead 
of  the  sausage  meat.  Moisten  with  a  httle  stock 
if  required. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— XIV 

Make  a  stuffing  of  a  cupful  each  of  bread-crumbs 


®ne  f)un5te5  Wis^  to  (tooft  tomatoes    563 

and  chopped  nuts,  a  grated  onion,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
Stuff  six  tomatoes  according  to  directions  pre- 
viously given  and  bake  for  half  an  hour,  basting 
with  melted  butter  and  hot  water. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— XV 

Scoop  out  the  pulp  from  six  large  tomatoes, 
and  fill  the  shells  with  creamed  macaroni  or 
spahgetti.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
cover  with  Cream  Sauce,  sprinkle  thickly  with 
grated  cheese,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— XVI 

Chop  a  small  onion  fine,  fry  it  in  butter,  add 
half  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  soaked  in  cold 
water  and  squeezed  dry,  and  add  the  pulp  of 
six  tomatoes.  Heat  thoroughly,  fill  the  tomato 
shells,  and  bake,  basting  with  stock.  A  cupful 
of  chopped  cooked  beef  and  the  beaten  yolk 
of  an  Ggg  may  be  added. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— XVII 

Season  cold  boiled  rice  with  melted  butter, 
onion-juice,  salt,  and  paprika.  Stuff  tomato 
shells,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and  bake 
covered  for  half  an  hour,  then  uncover  and 
brown.  Cooked  macaroni  may  be  used  instead 
of  the  rice,  adding  grated  cheese  to  the 
seasoning. 


564  1)0W  to  OOOft  VCQCUiblC^ 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— XVIII 

Make  a  stuffing  of  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs, 
a  tablesx>oonful  of  melted  butter,  one  egg  well 
beaten,  and  salt,  pepper,  minced  parsley, 
marjoram,  thyme,  and  grated  lemon-peel  to 
season.  Stuff  six  tomato  shells,  tie  on  the  tops, 
dip  in  egg  beaten  with  a  tablesxxx>nful  of  water, 
then  in  crtunbs,  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes  in 
a  quick  oven. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES  X  LA  SICILY— I 

Scoop  out  the  pulp  from  six  tomatoes,  chop  it 
fine,  and  fry  in  butter  with  a  very  small  minced 
onion,  and  a  cupful  of  chopped  mushrooms. 
Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  cooked  ham 
and  the  same  quantity  of  bread-crumbs.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  minced  parsley,  and  sweet 
herbs,  and  moisten  with  stock  or  gravy  if  neces- 
sary. Fill  the  tomato  shells,  sprinkle  with 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  for  half  an 
hour. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES  A  LA  SICILY— II 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Stuffed  Tomatoes  k  la  Sicily — I,  using  bacon 
instead  of  ham  and  adding  a  pounded  clove 
to  the  seasoning.  Or,  stuff  with  half  a  dozen 
cooked  mushrooms,  and  two  cooked  chicken 
livers  chopped  fine  and  mixed  with  a  chopped 
fried  onion  and  a  little  garlic.     Cook  to  a  smooth 


One  f)unDte^  Wne  to  tfooft  XEomatoea    565 

paste  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  enough 
bread-crumbs  to  make  a  smooth  paste.  Season 
with  lemon-juice,  stuff  the  tomatoes,  and  bake  for 
half  an  hour. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES  A  LA  SICILY— III 

Make  a  stuffing  of  the  pulp  scooped  from  six 
tomatoes,  reheated  in  oil  with  a  chopped  onion 
and  a  little  minced  cooked  ham.  Season  with 
minced  parsley,  add  two  tablespoonf uls  of  sherry, 
half  a  cupful  of  chopped  mushrooms,  and  enough 
bread-crumbs  to  make  a  smooth  thick  paste. 
Season  with  salt  and  cayenne,  stuff  the  tomatoes, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  dot 
with  butter,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 

TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

Make  a  stuffing  of  equal  parts  of  chopped 
mushrooms  and  bread-crumbs,  seasoning  with 
grated  onion  or  garlic  and  a  little  minced  pars- 
ley. Rub  to  a  smooth  paste  with  melted  butter, 
seasoning  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Stuff  toma- 
toes, cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake, 
basting  with  melted  butter  and  stock. 

TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  CORN 

Chop  the  pulp  scooped  from  six  tomato  shells 
with  the  corn  grated  from  three  large  ears. 
Cook  together  for  five  minutes,  seasoning  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  sugar.  Fill  the  shells,  dot  with 
butter,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 


566  Dow  to  OOOlK  VCQCUVUS 

STUFFED  TOMATOES  A  LA  CREOLE 

Cook  together  half  a  cupful  of  rice,  a  pint  of 
stock,  and  a  small  green  pepper,  seeded  and 
chopped.  When  the  liquid  is  nearly  absorbed, 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  mix  carefully 
and  stuff  six  tomatoes  prepared  according  to 
directions  previously  given.  Bake  for  half  an 
hour,  basting  with  oil  or  melted  butter,  and 
serve  with  Tomato  Sauce  made  from  the  tomato 
pulp. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES  A  LA  DUXELLE 

Chop  fine  two  onions  and  a  clove  of  garlic, 
fry  in  butter,  add  a  can  of  mushrooms,  drained 
and  chopped,  salt,  pepper,  and  minced  parsley 
to  season,  half  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs  and  a 
well-beaten  egg.  Moisten  with  stock  if  neces- 
sary, stuff  six  or  eight  tomatoes,  and  bake,  bast- 
ing with  melted  butter  and  hot  water. 

STUFFED  BAKED  TOMATOES 

Make  a  stuffing  of  chopped  cabbage  and  onion 
mixed  with  crumbs  and  tomato  pulp,  seasoning 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar,  and  moistening  with 
cream.  StufiE  the  tomatoes  according  to  direc- 
tions previously  given  and  bake,  basting  with 
melted  butter  and  hot  water.  Or,  mix  with 
the  tomato  pulp  chopped  cooked  veal  or  chicken, 
and  add  minced  onion  and  crumbs. 


One  1)unOte^  mtVBB  to  Oooft  Somatoe0   567 

TOMATO  SCRAMBLE 

Soak  a  cupful  of  bread-crumbs  in  a  cupful  of 
milk,  add  five  eggs  well  beaten  and  four  peeled 
and  chopped  tomatoes.  Season  to  taste  and 
cook  in  a  buttered  frying-pan. 

TOMATO  SOUFFLl^— I 

Cook  a  can  of  tomatoes  for  twenty  minutes, 
seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper,  drain  off  the 
liquid,  and  squeeze  nearly  dry  in  a  cloth.  Mix 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  the  pulp,  season  with 
pepper,  butter,  and  salt,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites,  turn  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and 
bake  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

TOMATO  SOUFFL^II 

Cook  half  a  can  of  tomatoes  for  twenty  minutes 
with  a  slice  of  onion,  a  bay-leaf,  a  bit  of  mace,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Strain,  mix  with  the 
yolks  of  three  well-beaten  eggs,  and  cool.  Fold 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  pour  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 
Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  before  baking  if 
desired. 

SPANISH  TOMATOES 

Chop  two  onions  fine  and  fry  in  butter,  then 
add  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  a  can  of  Spanish 
peppers  chopped  fine.  Cook  for  five  minutes, 
season  with  salt,  then  pour  into  a  baking-dish, 


568  Dow  to  dooft  He^etaMes 

cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  for  forty- 
five  minutes.  Green  peppers  may  be  used,  in- 
stead of  the  Spanish  peppers. 

TOMATOES  AND  EGGS 

Mix  one  cupful  of  stewed  and  strained  toma- 
toes with  three  eggs  well  beaten.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  onion-juice,  and  add  a  little 
minced  cooked  ham  if  desired.  Cook  in  butter 
until  the  eggs  set,  and  serve  on  toast.  Four 
eggs,  six  tomatoes,  and  one  cupful  of  milk  may 
be  used  for  this  dish,  or  four  eggs  and  twelve 
tomatoes.     Season  with  minced  parsley. 

TOMATOES  WITH  MACARONI  AND 

CHEESE 

Bake  six  peeled  tomatoes  and  arrange  on  a 
bed  of  cooked  and  broken  macaroni.  Pour  over 
a  cheese  sauce  made  of  two  cupfuls  of  cream 
and  one  cupful  of  cheese  melted  in  a  double 
boiler  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  paprika. 

TOMATO  TOAST— I 

Cook  a  can  of  tomatoes  for  twenty  minutes 
with  a  tablespoonful  each  of  sugar  and  butter, 
and  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne  to  season. 
Season  with  mace  or  nutmeg  if  desired  and 
a  little  onion-juice.  Serve  on  toast,  moist- 
ening the  toast  with  hot  water  and  melted 
butter. 


One  f)undred  TRAaise  to  Coofi  ;romatoe6    569 

TOMATO  TOAST— II 

Rub  a  can  of  tomatoes  through  a  sieve,  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  sugar,  bring  to  the 
boil,  and  add  cream  enough  to  moisten.  Pour 
over  buttered  toast  and  serve. 

TOMATO  TOAST  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

Cook  a  can  of  tomatoes  to  a  smooth  thick  paste, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Spread 
on  toast  and  lay  a  large  fresh  fried  mushroom 
on  top  of  each  piece.  Or,  thicken  a  can  of  toma- 
toes with  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  wet  with 
milk  and  season  with  grated  onion,  cayenne,  and 
Worcestershire  Sauce.  Cook  and  stir  for  twenty 
minutes,  then  add  a  can  of  drained  mushrooms, 
reheat,  and  serve  on  toast. 

TOMATOES  AU  GRATIN 

Brown  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  butter,  add 
one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  stock  and  cook  until 
smooth  and  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  a 
tablespoonful  of  minced  onion,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  minced  parsley,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
season.  Simmer  until  reduced  to  a  cupful. 
Fill  tomato  shells  with  the  sauce,  sprinkle  with 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  until  the 
tomatoes  are  soft. 

TOMATOES  A  L'INDIENNE 
Grate  a  cocoanut  and  thicken  the  milk  with 


570  l>ow  to  dooli  Vegetat>le0 

a  tablespoonful  of  flour  cooked  in  butter.  Stir 
while  cooking.  Cook  two  cupf  uls  of  peeled  toma- 
toes with  a  chopped  green  pepper,  a  minced  bean 
of  garlic,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  grated  onion  for 
twenty  minutes.  Add  the  cocoanut  and  the 
thickened  milk,  season  with  salt  and  curry  pow- 
der, add  a  pinch  of  soda,  and  serve. 

TOMATOES  A  LA  MARSEILLES 

Cut  six  large  tomatoes  in  two  and  saut^  the 
cut  side  in  oil  for  one  minute.  Pack  into  a 
baking-dish,  flat  side  up,  and  season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Chop  fine  two  green  onions,  two  beans 
of  garlic,  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  two  ancho- 
vies. Add  a  teaspoonful  each  of  minced  chives 
and  parsley  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Spread  the  paste  on  the  tomatoes,  sprinkle  with 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  for  ten  minutes. 


FORTY-SIX  WAYS  TO  COOK  TURNIPS 

BOILED  TURNIPS 

Peel  and  quarter  young  turnips  and  cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  to  cover  with  four  or  five 
slices  of  bacon,  changing  the  water  once  and 
adding  a  little  sugar  to  the  seasoned  water. 
Reheat  in  Cream  Sauce  and  serve  with  the  bacon 
as  a  garnish. 

BOILED  YELLOW  TURNIPS 

Peel,  cut  into  dice,  parboil,  drain,  and  finish 
cooking  in  mutton  stock.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  butter,  and  sugar,  and  serve. 

BOILED  TURNIP  TOPS 

Wash  the  greens  thoroughly  and  boil  for 
twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes  in  salted  water. 
Drain  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  melted 
butter.  Or,  after  draining  press  through  a 
sieve  and  mix  with  a  little  Brown  Sauce. 

BAKED  TURNIPS— I 

Peel  and  parboil  small  turnips,  drain,  and  put 
into  a  baking-pan  with  beef  stock  to  reach  to 

571 


573  Dow  to  COOft  \l>CQCtablCB 

half  their  height.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  sugar,  dot  with  butter,  cover,  and  bake  for 
an  hour,  basting  occasionally  with  the  stock. 

BAKED  TURNIPS— II 

Peel,  parboil,  and  cut  into  slices.  Put  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkling  with,  seasoned 
crumbs.  Moisten  with  milk  or  stock  and  bake 
imtil  brown. 

BROWNED  TURNIPS 

Peel,  slice,  boil  until  tender,  drain,  and  saut^ 
in  butter,  sprinkling  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar. 

TURNIP  BALLS 

Cut  balls  from  raw  turnips  with  a  French 
cutter,  boil,  drain,  and  serve  with  melted  butter 
or  any  preferred  sauce. 

TURNIP  BALLS  A  LA  POULETTE 

Cut  a  pint  of  balls  from  white  turnips,  put 
into  cold  salted  and  acidulated  water,  bring  to 
the  boil,  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Drain,  rinse 
in  cold  water,  and  cook  until  tender  in  chicken 
stock.  Drain  and  thicken  the  cooking  liquid 
with  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  half  a  cupful 
of  cream.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  re- 
heat the  balls  in  the  sauce.  Season  with  lemon- 
juice  if  desired. 


yotti^iSfx  Wnfi  to  Cooli  tLtxmipe    573 

TURNIP  BALLS  IN  POTATO  BORDER 

Cut  balls  from  ttimips  with  a  French  cutter 
and  boil  for  twenty  minutes  in  salted  water  to 
cover.  Drain,  season  with  melted  butter,  pep- 
per, and  parsley,  or  mix  with  Cream  Sauce. 
Serve  in  a  potato  border  prepared  according  to 
directions  elsewhere  given. 

CREAMED  TURNIPS 

Cut  boiled  turnips  into  dice,  reheat  in  a  Cream 
or  White  Sauce,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
sugar,  and  serve  on  toast.  Add  a  little  grated 
nutmeg  if  desired.  Brown  Sauce  may  be  used 
also. 

TURNIP  CHARLOTTE 

Boil  white  turnips  until  tender,  drain,  and 
press  through  a  fine  sieve.  To  one  cupful  of 
pulp,  add  one  fourth  cupful  of  thick  cream,  salt, 
pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  season,  and  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Turn  into 
a  buttered  mould  and  bake  in  a  pan  of  water 
until  the  centre  is  firm.  Turn  out  and  serve 
with  White,  B6chamel,  or  Velout^  Sauce. 

TURNIP  CROQUETTES 

Cook  peeled  and  sliced  turnips  in  salted  water 
until  very  soft.  Drain,  press  out  the  liquid,  and 
wring  dry  in  a  cloth.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  mixed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  the  beaten 


574  f>ow  to  (tooh  itiedetabtea 

yolk  of  egg,  cool,  shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in 
crumbs,  then  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep 
fat. 

TURNIPS  AND  CARROTS— I 

Cook  separately  diced  carrots  and  turnips, 
then  mix  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter, 
and  minced  parsley.  Or,  mix  with  Cream  or 
White  Sauce. 

TURNIPS  AND  CARROTS— II 

Saut^  a  cupful  each  of  diced  cooked  turnips 
and  carrots  in  butter,  seasoning  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Drain,  sprinkle  with  minced  parsley, 
and  serve. 

TURNIPS  AND  POTATOES 

Slice  six  peeled  turnips,  soak  in  cold  water 
half  an  hour,  drain,  cover  with  cold  salted  water, 
and  when  half  done,  add  two  large  peeled  and 
sliced  potatoes.  Cook  until  done,  drain,  mash, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar,  and  reheat, 
moistening  with  a  little  milk  or  Brown  Sauce. 
Equal  quantities  of  turnips  and  potatoes  may 
be  used. 

ESCALLOPED  TURNIP  AND  POTATO 

Mix  one  and  one>half  cupfuls  each  of  cold 
mashed  turnips  and  potatoes  with  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  salt  and  pepper 


yorts«SiJc  VJkBW  to  aoQlk  tEutnip0    ^75 

to  season.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  for  twenty 
minutes.  Or,  mix  the  mashed  vegetables,  season 
with  butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Or,  shape 
into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  deep  fat. 

TURNIPS  WITH  SWEET  POTATOES 

Boil  and  mash  separately  two  yellow  turnips 
and  four  large  sweet  potatoes.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  mix,  and  beat  together 
until  very  light.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  brush  with  milk  or  melted  butter,  and  bake 
for  twenty  minutes. 

PRIED  TURNIPS— I 

Parboil,  drain,  and  slice  three  or  four  turnips. 
Saut^  in  butter  and  add  a  little  chopped  onion 
if  desired. 

PRIED  TURNIPS— II 

Slice  boiled  turnips  or  boil  sliced  turnips. 
Drain,  dredge  with  seasoned  flour,  or  dip  in 
egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry. 

GLAZED  TURNIPS— I 

Boil  small  peeled  turnips  in  rich  stock  to 
cover,  adding  a  pinch  of  sugar.  Drain,  reduce 
the  sauce  by  rapid  boiling,  and  brown  the  turnips 
in  the  oven,  basting  with  the  stock. 


576  Dow  to  Cook  V)edetat>le0 

GLAZED  TURNIPS— II 

Peel  small  turnips  and  boil  for  ten  minutes 
in  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain  and  saut^  in 
butter,  sprinkling  with  sugar.  Add  a  little  stock 
and  cook  until  tender,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  a  little  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Thicken  the 
pan-gravy  if  desired,  with  flour  browned  in 
butter. 

MASHED  TURNIPS— I 

Peel  four  yellow  turnips  and  two  large  pota- 
toes. Boil  until  tender  in  salted  water,  drain, 
mash,  and  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 
Moisten  with  a  little  cream  and  serve. 

MASHED  TURNIPS— II 

Peel,  cut  up,  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water 
with  a  little. sugar.  Drain,  mash,  moisten  with 
Brown  Sauce  and  a  little  milk.  Season  with 
pepper  and  serve. 

MASHED  TURNIPS— III 

Peel  and  cut  up  the  turnips,  steam  until  tender 
and  mash,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
moistening  with  milk.  If  desired  omit  the  mitk 
and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  cooked  in  but- 
ter. Cream  or  Bechamel  Sauce  may  be  used  to 
moisten. 

ROASTED  TURNIPS 
Parboil    small    x)eeled    turnips    until    nearly 


fott^^Six  Winw  to  Cooft  Zntnipe     577 

tender,  drain,  and  put  into  the  pan  with  a  roast 
of  mutton  for  forty-five  minutes.  Baste  with 
the  drippings  and  serve  around  the  mutton. 

RAGOUT  OF  TURNIPS 

Chop  a  small  onion  fine,  fry  it  in  butter,  and 
brown  a  pint  of  diced  turnip  in  the  same  fat. 
Cover  with  stock  and  cook  until  the  turnip  is 
tender,  thicken  with  flour  browned  in  butter, 
season  to  taste  and  serve. 

TURNIPS  IN  BROWN  SAUCE 

Peel,  slice,  and  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water, 
drain,  saut^  in  butter,  and  pour  over  a  Brown 
Sauce.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and 
mace. 

PUR^E  OP  TURNIPS— I 

Peel,  slice,  and  boil  until  soft  in  salted  water. 
Drain,  rub  through  a  sieve,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  cooked  in  butter.  Add  half  a  cupful  of 
hot  cream  in  which  a  bit  of  soda  has  been  dis- 
solved, bring  to  the  boil,  take  from  the  fire,  and 
add  a  well-beaten  egg.  Season  with  a  .little 
onion- juice  if  desired. 

PUR^E  OP  TURNIPS— II 

Cut  up  six  turnips,  boil  until  soft,  and  drain, 
pressing  out  the  liquid.     Rub  through  a  sieve 

37 


57^  130W  to  CooJi  VeaetablCB 

and  reheat  with  a  little  very  thick  Cream  Sauce, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar.  Cook 
to  a  smooth  thick  paste  and  season,  if  desired, 
with  grated  nutmeg  or  powdered  ginger. 

PUREE  OP  TURNIPS— III 

Peel  and  slice  six  white  turnips,  cover  with 
cold  water,  bring  to  the  boil,  drain,  and  rinse 
in  cold  water.  Cover  with  salted  boiUng  water 
and  cook  until  soft.  Drain  in  a  cloth  and  wring 
out  the  moisture.  Press  through  a  sieve  and 
reheat  with  a  little  very  thick  Cream  Sauce. 

STEWED  TURNIPS— I 

Peel  and  quarter  young  turnips,  parboil  for 
fifteen  minutes,  drain,  and  cover  with  a  cupful 
of  boiling  milk  in  which  a  bit  of  soda  has  been 
dissolved.  Thicken  with  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  simmer  for  fifteen 
minutes,  and  serve  very  hot. 

STEWED  TURNIPS— II 

Cut  young  turnips  into  dice  or  balls  and  cook 
until  tender  in  stock  to  cover,  seasoning  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  sugar.  Thicken  the  cooking 
liquid  and  serve  as  a  sauce. 

STEWED  TURNIPS— III 

Cut  into  dice  and  cook  in  as  little  water  as 
possible,  seasoning  with  salt  and  sugar.     When 


yotti{«Six  mn»  to  Cook  Qavntp0    579 

boiled  almost  dry,  add  one  egg  beaten  with  three 
tablespoon! uls  of  cream  and  serve. 

STEWED  TURNIPS— IV 

Cut  young  turnips  into  dice  and  simmer  until 
soft  in  a  little  butter.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  serve  with  mutton  chops. 

STEWED  TURNIPS—V 

Peel  the  turnips,  cut  into  dice,  and  cook  until 
nearly  tender  in  salted  water.  Drain  and  simmer 
for  fifteen  minutes  in  cream,  seasoning  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  sugar.  Add  a  tablespoonf ul  or  more 
of  butter  and  serve. 

STEWED  TURNIPS— VI 

Peel  and  quarter  small  turnips  or  cut  into 
balls,  using  a  French  cutter.  Parboil,  drain,  and 
saut^  in  butter,  seasoning  with  a  little  sugar, 
salt,  and  pepper.  Moisten  with  stock  and  finish 
cooking.  Add  beef  extract  and  butter  to  the 
pan-gravy  and  bring  to  the  boil,  pour  over  the 
turnips,  and  serve. 

STEWED  TURNIPS— VII 

Peel  young  turnips  and  brown  in  butter. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  sugar,  add  stock  nearly 
to  cover,  and  simmer  until  tender. 

STEWED  TURNIPS— VIII 
Peel  six  turnips  and  boil  until  tender  in  salted 


sSo  l>ow  to  Coofi  vie0etaMe0 

water.  Drain,  and  simmer  a  cupful  of  bread 
crumbs  in  the  cooking  liquid  until  soft.  Put  the 
turnips  into  a  saucepan  with  the  bread  and 
pepper  and  salt  to  season.  Heat  thoroughly 
and  thicken  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 

STUFFED  TURNIPS— I 

Peel  six  young  turnips,  cut  a  slice  from  the 
top  of  each,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp.  Chop  fine 
two  onions  and  enough  cold  cooked  mutton  to 
fill  the  turnips,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  well- 
cooked  rice,  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Fill  the  turnips, 
replace  their  tops,  and  stew  slowly  until  tender 
in  stock  nearly  to  cover.  Season  the  cooking 
liquid  with  salt,  sugar,  and  vinegar,  and  finish 
cooking.  Serve  with  the  strained  stock  as  a 
sauce. 

STUFFED  TURNIPS— II 

Boil  four  or  five  large  turnips  until  tender, 
drain,  and  cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each. 
Scoop  out  the  pulp  and  mash  it  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  butter  to  season.  Add  a  little  cream, 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  well  beaten,  and  enough 
cracker  cmmbs  to  make  a  smooth  thick  paste. 
Fill  the  shells,  brush  with  the  beaten  egg,  and 
brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

STUFFED  TURNIPS— III 

Boil  four  or  five  turnips  until  soft,  drain,  cut 


yott)^SUr  Wiwse  to  Cooft  Cumfpe     581 

a  slice  from  the  top  of  each,  and  scoop  out  the 
pulp.  Mash  the  pulp  smooth,  seasoning  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  sprinkle  with  flour, 
moisten  with  cream,  and  add  the  well-beaten 
yolk  of  an  egg.  Fill  the  shells,  put  on  the  tops, 
brush  with  beaten  egg^  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

STEAMED  TURNIPS 

Peel,  cut  up,  and  steam  until  done.  Mash, 
season  with  salt,  sugar,  and  butter,  and  moisten 
with  cream.  Or,  without  mashing,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 

TURNIPS  A  L'ALLEMANDE 

Fry  turnip  dice  golden  brown  in  oil,  cover  with 
mutton  stock,  and  cook  for  half  an  hour.  Thicken 
the  cooking  liquid  with  flour  cooked  in  butter 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  onion- juice,  and 
kitchen  bouquet. 

TURNIPS  AU  GRATIN 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Cauliflower  au  Gratin. 

TURNIPS  A  LA  POULETTE— I 

Peel,  quarter,  and  cook  in  salted  water  to 
cover.  Drain  and  serve  with  Poulette  or  Velout^ 
Sauce. 

TURNIPS  A  LA  POULETTE— II 
Boil  sliced  turnips.     Serve  with  a  cujrful  of 


582  l>ow  to  Cook  Defletal^Iee 

Drawn-Butter  Sauce  to  which  the  yolks  of  two 
well-beaten  eggs  have  been  added.  Season  the 
sauce  with  salt,  pepper,  onion- juice,  and  tarra- 
gon vinegar. 


FORTY  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES 

BAKED  BANANAS— I 

Peel  and  quarter  four  bananas  and  put  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish  with  eight  tablespoonfuls 
of  water,  four  of  sugar,  four  teaspoonfuls  each  of 
melted  butter  and  lemon-juice,  and  a  sprinkle 
of  salt.  Bake  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  or  less, 
basting  frequently.  The  lemon- juice  may  be 
omitted. 

BAKED  BANANAS— II 

Remove  half  the  peel  from  each  and  bake 
covered  for  half  an  hour,  open  side  up.  Remove 
the  rest  of  the  skin  and  serve  with  melted  butter 
to  which  a  little  hot  cream  may  be  added.  Or, 
serve  in  the  skins. 

FRIED  BANANAS— I 

Peel,  slice  lengthwise,  season  with  salt,  dredge 
with  flour  and  fry  in  oil  or  butter,  or  dip  in  egg 
and  crumbs,  or  cut  in  two  crosswise,  dip  in  egg 
and  seasoned  crumbs,  put  on  ice  for  two  hours, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Sprinkle  with  lemon-juice 
if  desired. 

583 


584  f)ow  to  Coofc  \)cgctablc6 

FRIED  BANANAS— II 

Peel,  cut  lengthwise  into  thirds,  roll  in  sea- 
soned flour,  and  saut^  in  butter.  Or,  without 
cutting  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  seasoned 
crumbs,  then  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  and  keep 
on  ice  for  two  hours.     Fry  in  deep  fat. 

BANANA  FRITTERS 

Make  a  batter  of  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  three 
well-beaten  eggs,  and  enough  flour  sifted  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.  Dip  peeled  and  quartered  bananas  in 
the  batter  and  fry  brown  in  deep  fat.  Drain 
and  serve  with  any  preferred  sauce. 

ESCALLOPED  BANANAS 

Peel,  slice,  and  put  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish  in  layers,  seasoning  each  layer  with  salt, 
pepper,  butter,  and  a  little  cream.  Cover  with 
buttered  crumbs,  moisten  with  cream,  and  bake 
covered  for  half  an  hour,  then  uncover  and 
brown. 

CURRY  OF  VEGETABLES— I 

Mix  one  cupful  each  of  cooked  carrots  and 
turnips  cut  into  dice,  one-half  can  of  peas,  and 
one  cupful  of  cooked  lima  or  kidney  beans. 
Reheat  in  Brown  Sauce,  seasoning  with  minced 
onion,  curry  powder,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  a 
little  vinegar.     Add  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  cooked 


yoTtc  Ai0ceUaneoii0  Vecipea        585 

potatoes  cut  into  dice,  simmer  for  twenty  min- 
utes, and  serve  in  a  border  of  boiled  rice. 

CURRY  OF  VEGETABLES— II 

Chop  an  onion  fine  and  peel  and  slice  a  sour 
apple.  Cook  for  two  minutes  in  butter,  then 
add  a  pint  each  of  carrots,  turnips,  and  celery 
cut  fine,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder, 
and  a  sauce  made  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
cooked  in  butter  mixed  with  a  pint  of  milk  or 
stock  and  cooked  until  thick.  Simmer  for  an 
hour  and  serve  with  a  border  of  boiled  rice. 

FRIED  CORN  MUSH 

Make  a  thick  mush  by  cooking  a  cupful  of 
corn-meal  in  salted  boiling  water.  Cool  in  a 
deep  pan  and  cut  in  slices.  Dip  in  egg  or  milk, 
then  in  flour,  and  sautd  in  butter,  drippings,  or 
bacon  fat. 

GREENS 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Boiled  Turnip  Tops. 

BEET  GREENS 

Chop  half  a  poimd  of  cold  boiled  ham  with  a 
small  onion  and  saut€  in  oil.  Add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  hot  vinegar  and  pour  over  beet 
tops  boiled  according  to  directions  previously 
given.     Or,  cook  yotmg  beet  tops  in  a  covered 


586  Dow  to  Ooolt  VtgeMylcB 

saucepan  with  a  little  butter,  season  witli  pepper 
and  salt,  and  garnish  with  slices  of  hard-boiled 
eggs. 

DANDELION  GREENS 

Boil  until  tender  in  salted  water,  drain,  chop, 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  vinegar 
or  lemon- juice. 

GNOCCHI— I 

Bring  to  the  boil  a  cupful  of  water  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Add  five  ounces  of  sifted 
flour  and  a  pinch  each  of  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
nutmeg.  Add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  and  stir  constantly  until  the 
mixture  leaves  the  sides  of  the  pan.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  stir  in  one  at  a  time  three  un- 
beaten eggs.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  into  boiling 
water  and  simmer  until  firm.  Drain,  put  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish,  season  with  grated 
cheese  and  melted  butter,  and  pour  over  a  Cream 
or  Bechamel  Sauce,  thickened  with  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs.  Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  grated 
cheese,  bake  until  brown,  and  serve  in  the  same 
dish. 

GNOCCHI— II 

Melt  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter,  add  one- 
fourth  of  a  cupful  each  of  flour  and  corn-starch, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  two  cupfuls  of  boiling  milk. 
Cook  until  smooth  and  thick,  take  from  the 


yovtis  AiBcellaneotts  'Kecfpe0       587 

fire,  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  half  a  cupful 
of  grated  cheese.  Pour  into  a  buttered  shallow 
pan,  cool,  cut  in  strips,  roll  in  grated  cheese,  and 
brown  in  the  oven. 

GNOCCHI  AU  GRATIN 

Bring  to  the  boil  a  cupful  of  salted  milk  and 
sprinkle  in  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  fine  hom- 
iny or  Indian  meal.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  and  cook  to  a  stiff  paste.  Shape  into 
small  balls  with  teaspoons  and  simmer  until 
firm  in  chicken  stock  or  water.  Drain,  put  on 
a  serving  platter,  cover  with  White  Sauce, 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  spread  with  but- 
tered crumbs,  and  bake  for  ten  minutes.  Serve 
in  the  same  dish. 

GNOCCHI  A  LA  FRANgAISE 

Prepare  according  to  directions  given  for 
Gnocchi — I,  adding  a  little  minced  cooked  chicken 
to  the  paste  with  the  cheese. 

SEA  KALE— I 

Boil  in  salted  water  with  a  bit  of  pork,  drain, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  batter,  and  vinegar,  and 
serve. 

SEA  KALE— II 

Soak  for  half  an  hour  in  cold  water  and  cook 
for  twenty-five  minutes  in  boiling  water.  Drain, 
press   out   the    liquid,    chop    fine,  and   reheat- 


588  Dow  to  COOiK  VCHCtMUe 

Season  with  melted  butter  or  with  salt,  pepper, 
butter,  and  vinegar. 

CREAMED  KOHL-RABI 

Peel,  slice,  and  soak  in  cold  water  for  half  an 
hour.  Drain,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  cook 
until  tender.  Drain  and  pour  over  a  Cream 
Sauce  to  which  has  been  added  the  well-beaten 
yolk  of  an  egg. 

KOHL-RABI  ESPAGNOLE 

Trim  and  quarter  eight  small  kohl-rabis  and 
cook  until  tender  in  salted  water  to  cover,  add- 
ing a  little  butter.  Drain  and  reheat  in  a  well- 
buttered  Espagnole  Sauce. 

STEWED  KOHL-RABI— I 

Soak  the  tops  in  cold  water.  Peel  and  quarter 
the  roots,  cover  with  cold  salted  water,  and  boil 
until  tender.  Chop  the  greens  fine,  fry  in  butter, 
and  add  the  roots  cut  in  dice.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  add  a  cupful  of  stock,  and  thicken 
with  flour  browned  in  butter. 

STEWED  KOHL-RABI— II 

Wash,  peel,  and  cut  into  dice  a  quart  of  kohl- 
rabi, and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until 
tender.  Cook  the  tops  in  another  pan  of  boiling 
water  until  tender,  drain,  and  chop  very  fine. 
Cook  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  butter, 
add  the  chopped  greens  and  one  cupful  of  soup 


foxt^  Ai0celbineou0  'Recipes        5^9 

stock  or  of  the  cooking  liqtiid.  When  smooth 
and  thick,  add  the  cooked  dice,  reheat,  and 
serve. 

STUFFED  KOHL-RABIS 

Pare  and  parboil  eight  kohl-rabis.  Cut  in 
two,  scoop  out  the  inside,  and  stuff  with  sausage 
meat  seasoned  with  fine  herbs.  Bake  for  half 
an  hour,  basting  with  white  stock.  Drain  and 
add  the  pan-gravy  to  a  cupful  of  Velout^  Sauce. 
Pour  over  the  kohl-rabi  and  serve. 

NUT  CROQUETTES 

Cook  a  pint  of  crumbs  in  a  double  boiler 
with  enough  milk  to  make  a  smooth  paste. 
Add  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt,  one  and  one-half  cup- 
fuls  of  chopped  nuts,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sherry,  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs. 
Cool,  shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

POLENTA— I 

Boil  a  quart  of  white  stock  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  sprinkle  in  slowly,  enough 
corn-meal  to  make  a  thick  mush.  Take  from 
the  fire,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter 
and  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  beef  extract.  Mould  in  small  cups,  turn  out, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  cheese,  and  bake, 
basting  with  melted  butter. 


590  IK^  to  Cook  lDe0etabIe0 

POLENTA— II 

Mix  one  cupful  of  corn-flour  with  two  cupfuls 
of  cold  water  and  stir  into  two  cupfuls  of  boiling 
water,  to  which  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  has  been 
added.  Cook  for  half  an  hour  and  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  grated  cheese.  Chop  fine  six  mushrooms,  an 
onion,  and  a  clove  of  garlic  and  saut^  in  butter. 
Add  half  a  cupful  of  stock  and  simmer  for  five 
minutes.  Serve  with  the  Polenta,  or  cool  it, 
cut  it  into  shapes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  deep  fat. 

POLENTA— III 

Bring  to  the  boil  two  and  a  half  cupfuls  of 
boiling  water  and  one  cupful  of  milk.  Add  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  sprinkle  into  it  slow^ly 
one  cupful  of  corn-meal.  Cook  for  half  an  hour 
or  more,  stirring  occasionally.  Take  from  the 
fire,  add  one  egg  well  beaten,  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  and  half  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese.  Cool^ 
cut  into  squares,  dip  in  melted  butter,  then  in 
grated  cheese,  sprinkle  with  paprika,  and  bake 
tmtil  the  cheese  is  melted. 

POLENTA— IV 

Make  a  mush  of  a  cupful  of  corn-meal  sifted 
into  a  quart  of  salted  boiling  water.  Cook  for 
half  an  hour,  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter   and   two   of   grated    cheese.     Cook   for 


yotti3  Ai0ceUaneou0  'Recipes        591 

twenty  minutes  longer  and  cool.  Cut  into  large 
cubes,  brush  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  brown  in  the  oven. 
Serve  with  Tomato  or  Brown  Sauce  and  more 
grated  cheese. 

INDIAN  PILAU 

Wash  a  cupftd  of  rice  thoroughly,  throw  into 
fast-boiling  water,  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  and 
drain.  A  tablespoonful  of  butter  may  be  added 
to  the  water.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs  and  fried 
onions. 

RAGOUT  OP  VEGETABLES 

Parboil  one  carrot,  two  potatoes,  one  cupful 
of  string-beans,  one  cupful  of  green  peas,  one 
sliced  onion,  and  one-fourth  pound  of  salt  pork. 
Drain,  remove  the  pork,  and  slice  the  potatoes 
and  carrot.  Add  a  sliced  tomato,  one  cupful  of 
stock,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  and  cook  for  half  an  hour. 

BOILED  SAUER  KRAUT 

Soak  for  several  hotirs  in  cold  water  and  re- 
heat with  enough  fresh  boiling  water  to  moisten. 
Serve  with  bacon,  salt  pork,  or  sausages.  Cold 
sauer  kraut  may  be  chopped  and  fried,  or  re- 
heated in  a  Cream  Sauce. 


593  f)ovp  to  Cooii  1t)e0etal)Ie0 

VERMICELLI  A  LA  REINE 

Scald  half  a  pound  of  vermicelli,  drain,  and 
cook  until  tender  in  stock  to  cover.  Take  from 
the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  beaten 
with  two  cupfuls  of  cream.  Keep  warm  until 
it  is  thick,  but  do  not  let  it  to  boil. 

VEGETABLE  HASH 

Chop  coarsely  cold  cooked  cabbage,  parsnips, 
and  potatoes,  and  fry  in  butter,  then  moisten 
with  hot  water  and  cook  covered  for  five  or  ten 
minutes.     Add  salt  and  pepper. 

PUR^E  OF  VEGETABLES 

Cook  potatoes,  carrots,  onions,  and  ttimips 
together  in  stock  to  cover,  seasoning  with  salt, 
pepper,  spices,  and  sweet  herbs.  Press  through 
a  sieve,  thicken  with  butter  and  flour  cooked 
together.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  beaten  with  a  little  milk. 

VEGETABLES  AU  GRATIN 

Cook  separately  in  salted  water  shredded 
cabbage,  green  peas,  asparagus,  etc.  Drain, 
season  to  taste,  and  arrange  in  alternate  layers 
in  a  buttered  baking-dish,  seasoning  each  layer 
with  bits  of  butter  and  grated  cheese.  Cover 
with  buttered  crtunbs  and  bake  for  an  hour. 


foiVtt  Ai0cenaneou0  IRccipcs        593 

VEGETABLES  A  LA  JARDINIERE 

Mix  half  a  can  of  French  peas  and  one  cupful 
each  of  diced  cooked  carrots  and  turnips.  Re- 
heat in  a  well-buttered  B6chamel  Sauce.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  a  little  sugar  if 
desired. 

MAC^DOINE  OP  VEGETABLES— I 

Cook  separately  a  carrot  and  two  turnips, 
cut  into  dice.  Drain,  mix  with  one  can  each  of 
peas  and  string-beans,  reheat,  mix  with  Brown 
Sauce,  and  serve  hot. 

MAC^DOINE  OP  VEGETABLES— II 

Cook  separately  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  and  half  a 
cupful  each  of  peas  and  string-beans.  Add 
two  tablespoonf  uls  of  cooked  Prench  beans  and 
a  few  cooked  cauliflower  flowerets.  Reheat  in 
Bechamel  Sauce,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  nutmeg. 

MACiDOINE  OP  VEGETABLES— III 

Use  six  or  eight  different  sorts  of  vegetables 
and  cook  separately  in  salted  water.  Drain, 
rinse  in  cold  water,  and  reheat  with  White  or 
B^hamel  Sauce,  or  serve  cold  with  Vinaigrette 
Sauce.  Carrots,  turnips,  string-beans,  green 
peas,  cauliflower,  and  asparagus  tips  may  all  be 
used. 

38 


594  1)ow  to  Cooli  X)cgctnbicB 

MAC^DOINE  OF  VEGETABLES— IV 

Mix  together  one  cupful  each  of  cooked  cauli- 
flower and  diced  cooked  carrots,  and  half  a  can 
of  French  peas  or  French  beans.  Reheat  in 
Bechamel  or  Cream  Sauce,  seasoning  with  salt, 
pepper,  sugar,  grated  onion,  and  a  bit  of  bay- 
leaf.  Or,  reheat  a  can  of  mixed  vegetables,  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  beef  extract,  a  teaspoonful 
each  of  salt  and  sugar,  two  tablespoonftds  of 
butter,  half  a  cupful  of  water,  and  pepper  to 
season. 


BACK  TALK 

At  present,  the  author  is  ashamed  to  nod  to 
a  head  of  lettuce  or  to  meet  the  summer  pro- 
cession of  Nature's  gifts.  Others,  who  can 
plead  "not  guilty"  and  who  know  more  ways 
to  cook  vegetables,  will  please  write  'em  down 
on  the  following  blank  pages  and  kindly  excuse 

O.  G. 


S9< 


59S  TIMitfenal  VedpCB 


TldOttlonal  l{eci|>e0  599 


6oo  TtDDittonal  Vectpcd 


AdDfttonal  tRedpce  601 


6o2  nODitional  'Recit>c0 


AMttional  Kccipe^  603 


6od  AODitional  Itedped 


AOOttional  Vccipe^  605 


6o6  2IMitional  Vedpea 


2V)Dittonal  liecipee  607 


INDEX 

Artichokes,  forty- two  ways  to  cook,  18-30 
^  rAllemande,  23 
k  la  Babette,  20 
k  la  Barigoule,  23 
k  la  cr^me,  23 
k  ritalienne,  24 
k  la  Lyonnaise,  I,  II,  34 
k  la  Lyons,  25 
k  la  Proven9ale,  25 
it  la  Tartare,  26 
^  la  vinaigrette,  26 
Baked,  19 

Boiled,  18;  boiled  Italian,  18 
Bottoms  k  rOrloff,  25;  4  la  Pompadour,  25 
Braised,  19  1 

Pricass6e  of,  22 

Fried,  I,  II,  20;  fried  Italian,  20 
Mayonnaise  of,  26 
Pur^  of,  27 

Quarters  with  Dutch  Sauce,  27 
Raw,  18 
Saut^,  20 
Stewed,  22 
Stuffed,  I,  II,  31,  33 

with  brown  sauce,  29;   with  butter  sauce, 
37 
39  609 


6io  fnoex 

Artichokes  {Continued^ 
Jerusalem  Artichokes,  28-30 
k  la  cr^me,  30 
au  gratin,  30 
k  la  Jersey,  30 
k  la  vinaigrette,  30 
Baked,  I,  II,  28,  39 
Braised,  39 
Fried,  28 
Mashed,  29 
Pur^e  of,  28 

Asparagus,  forty-five  ways  to  cook,  31-44 
k  rAUemande,  40 
k  TAnglaise,  40 
k  la  Babette,  40 
k  la  B^amaise,  41 
k  la  cr^me,  41 
k  TEspagnole,  41 
k  la  Fran9aise,  42 
k  la  Fribourg,  42 
k  la  Mousseline,  42 
k  la  Pompadour,  43 
k  la  Seely,  43 
k  la  Tartare,  44 
k  la  Tyson,  43 
k  la  vinaigrette  I,  II,  44 
Ambush  of,  35 
Baked,  I-III,.3i,  32;  with  cheese,  32;  with 

eggs,  33 
Boiled,  31 
Canned,  33;  stewed,  33 


fnoejc  6zz 

Asparagus  (Continued) 
Creamed,  I,  II,  34 
Croustades  of,  I,  II,  35 
Escalloped,  I,  II,  37 
Fricassee  of,  38 
Fried,  33 
Loaf  of,  I,  II,  36 
Moulded,  39 
Patties  of,  36 
Ragout  of,  40 
Sauce  of  tips,  34 
Stewed,  38 

Tips  of,  k  la  Philadelphia,  43 
Tix>s  of.  Bechamel,  41 
with  cream,  37 
with  eggs,  39 
with  egg  sauce,  38 

Back  Talk,  595 

Beans,  Ninety-five  ways  to  cook,  45-72 
Black  Beans,  59 

Boiled,  59 
Dried  Beans,  63-72 
k  la  Bretonne,  69 
k  la  Lorraine,  69 
k  la  Waldorf,  69 

•Baked:  k  la  Concord,  65;  k  la  Providence, 
65;  k  la  Rhode  Island,  66;  k  la  Wash- 
ington, 67;  Southern  style,  66:  Virginia, 

67 

Boston-baked,    plain,     64;    with    tomato 
sauce,  64 


6i3  fndes 

Beans  (Continuedi 

Buttered,  71 

Creamed,  7a 

Croquettes,  70 

Fried,  67 

Patties,  71 

Polenta,  I,  II,  71 

Purde  of,  79 

Souffle,  70 

Stewed,  I-IV,  67,  68 

with  barley,  70 

with  pork,  boiled,  63;  baked,  63 
Kidney  Beans,  60-62 

k  la  Christiana,  61 

k  la  Creole,  63 

k  la  Espagnole,  6a 

^  la  Lyonnaise,  63 

Buttered,  61 

Fricassee  of,  60 

Stewed,  60 

with  brown  sauce,  I,  II,  61 
Lima  Beans,  54-58 

k  TAUemande,  57 

k  la  Bechamel,  57 

k  TEspagnole,  57 

k  la  Jersey,  58 

k  la  Philadelphia,  58 

k  la  poulette,  58 

au  velout^,  58 

Boiled,  54 

Flageolets,  57 

Patties  of,  56 


Index  613 


Beans  {Continued) 
Pur6e  of,  $6 
Saut6,  55 
Souffle,  56 
Stewed,  55 
with  brown  sauce,  55 
with  onions,  53 
with  tomatoes,  56 
Red  Beans,  59,  60 
k  la  Provence,  59 
Frijoles  Mexicana,  59 
String  Beans,  45-54 
k  TAllemande,  49 
k  rAm6ricaine,  49 
k  TAnglaise,  49 

k  la  Babette,  plain,  50 ;  sour,  50 
k  la  Bretonne,  I,  II,  50,  51 
k  la  Cambridge,  51 
k  la  crdme,  51 
k  la  Dresden,  51 
k  la  Fran9aise,  I,  II,  5a 
k  la  Jersey.  52 
k  la  Julienne,  52 
k  la  Lyonnaise,  53 
k  la  Lyons,  stewed,  53 
k  la  maitre  d'hdtel,  53 
k  la  Manhattan,  53 
k  la  poulette,  54 
k  la  Provenjale,  54 
k  la  Syracuse,  54 
Boiled,  I,  II,  45 
Buttered,  49 


6i4  fnoer 

Beans  (Continued) 
Canned,  46 
en  salade,  48 
Saut^,  45 
Steamed,  46 
with  bacon,  46 
with  brown  sauce,  46 
with  cream,  I,  II,  47 
with  gravy,  47 
with  parsley,  47 
with  sour  sauce,  48 

Beets,  twenty  ways  to  cook,  73-78 
k  la  Babette,  76 
k  la  Bechamel,  77 
k  la  Chartreuse,  77 
k  la  St.  Lawrence,  77 
k  la  mattre  d'hdtel,  77 
Boiled,  73 
Buttered,  74 
Creamed,  74 
Greens,  76 

Greens  k  TAUemande,  78 
Greens  k  TAnglaise,  78 
Pickled,  I,  II,  75 
Sautd,  76 
Stewed,  I,  II,  73 
with  cream,  76 
with  pink  sauce,  75 
with  sour  sauce,  74 

Brussels  Sprouts,  eight  ways  to  cook,  79-81 
k  la  Chipolata,  81 


tnbcx  615 

Brussels  Sprouts  (Continued) 
k  la  cr^me,  79 
k  la  Parmesan,  80 
au  gratin,  80 
Boiled,  79 
Saut6,  I,  II,  79,  80 
with  cream,  80 

Cabbaob,  one  hundred  and  five  ways  to  cook, 
82-117 
k  TAUemande,  I-III,  107,  xo8 
k  r Alsace,  107 
k  la  bourgeoise,  108 
k  la  Flamande,  I,  II,  109 
k  la  Fran^aise,  I,  II,  109,  no 
k  la  Frankfort,  no 
k  ritalienne,  no 
k  la  Mackenzie,  1 10 
k  la  Navarraise,  in 
k  la  Provence,  ni 
k  la  Russe,  in 
au  gratin,  103 
Baked.  I-IV,  V,  94.  95 
Boiled,  I-V,  82,  83 
Buttered,  106 

Cold  Slaw,  I-V,  98,  99;  ^  la  May  Irwin,  99 
Creamed,  I,  II,  93 
Dutch,  104 

Escalloped,  I-III,  93,  94 
Fried,  I,  II,  83,  84 
Hearts  with  peas,  107 
Hot  Slaw,  I-VI,  96,  97 


6i6  tnMc 

Cab  BAGS  (Continued) 
Minced,  107 
Mock  cauliflower,  X07 
Pudding,  I,  II,  X04 
Rago4t  of,  106 
Rolls,  I-IV,  99-1  ox 
Smothered,  104 
Steamed,  106 
Stewed,  I-IV,   84,  85;   Swedish,   85;   with 

celery,  86 
Stuifed,  I-XIV,  86-93 ;  with  chestnuts,  93 
Swedish,  creamed,  105 
Sweet  and  sour,  X05 
Swiss,  105 

with  bacon,  I,  II,  102 
with  oysters,  103 
with  sausage,  103 
with  sour  cream,  103 
Red  Cabbage,  1 1 2-1 1 7 
k  TAllemande,  I-IV,  114,  xis 
k  la  Babette,  115 
k  la  Flamande,  I,  II,  115,  116 
k  la  Heidelberg,  116 
It  la  Hollandaise,  116 
k  la  Hongroise,  117 
Pickled,  with  oysters,  112 
Smothered,  I,  II,  iia 
Stewed,  I-IV,  112,  113 

Carrots,  fifty-six  ways  to  cook,  1 18-134 
k  TAllemande,  129 
k  la  Bechamel,  129 


I 

I 


fndex  617 

Carrots  (Continued) 
k  la  bourgeoise,  129 
^la  Cambridge,  129 
k  la  caramel,  130 
k  I'Espagnole,  130 
k  la  Flamande,  I,  130;  II,  131 
k  ritalienne,  131 
k  la  Lilloise,  131 
k  la  Lyonnaise,  132 
k  la  Lyons,  131 
k  la  maitre  d'hdtel,  132 
k  la  Majestic,  133 
k  la  Maryland,  132 
k  la  poulette,  133 
k  la  Provence,  133 
k  la  Russe,  133 
Boiled,  118 
Buttered,  128 

Creamed,  plain,  125;  £l  la  Fran9aise,  125 
Croquettes,  126 
Fritters,  128 
Glazed,  126 
Hash  of,  127 
in  turnip  cups,  124 
in  white  sauce,  125 
Mashed,  128 
Pickled,  127 
Pur6e  of  carrots,  127 

Saut^,  plain,  I,  II,  121;  ^  la  Fran^aise,  122 
Smothered,  126 
Spring,  I,  II,  122 
Stewed,  I-VIII,  1 18-120;  in  cream,  121 


6i8  fndex 

Carrots  {Continued) 
Sweet  and  sour,  135 
Timbales,  127 
with  asparagus,  224 
with  fine  herbs,  123 
with  lemon  sauce,  12a 
with  peas,  I,  II,  123 
with  turnips,  124 

Cauliflower,  forty-nine  ways  to  cook,  135-150 
k  la  beurre  noir,  145 
k  la  Cambridge,  145 
k  I'Espagnole,  146 
k  la  Hongroise,  147 
k  ritalienne,  148 
k  la  maitre  d'h6tel,  148 
k  la  May  Irwin,  148 
k  la  Parmesan,  I,  II,  148,  149 
k  la  poulette,  149 
k  la  Tartare,  150 
au  gratin,  I-III,  146,  147 
Baked,  I-IV,  136,  137 
Boiled,  I-V,  135,  136 
Buttered,  137 
Creamed,  138 

Escalloped,  I-III,  139,  140 
Fried,  plain  I,  II,  138;  k  Tltaliemie,.  139 
Fritters,  139 
in  cheese  shell,  140 
in  crusts,  141 
Mashed,  I,  II,  14a 
Mock,  141 


fnoex  619 


Cauliflowbr  (Continued) 
Saut6,  138 
Stewed,  142 
Timbale  of,  141 
with  drawn-butter  sauce,  141 
with  lemon  sauce,  141 
with  mayonnaise,  141 
with  mushrooms,  143 
with  Parmesan  cheese,  144 
with  stuffing,  144 
with  tomato  sauce,  145 


Cblbry,  thirty-two  ways  to  cook,  1 51-160 
k  ritalienne,  159 
k  la  poulette,  160 
k  la  Villeroy,  160 
au  gratin,  159 
au  jus,  159 
Baked,  151 
Boiled,  I,  II,  151 

Braised,  plain,  15a;  Espagnole,  152 
Creamed,  plain,  157;  in  cheese  shell,  157 
Escalloped,  157 
Fricassee  of,  158 
Fried,  I,  II,  152,  153 
Fritters,  153 

in  brown  sauce,  I,  II,  156 
in  velout^  sauce,  156 
in  white  sauce,  157 
Saut6.  153 
Slaw,  158 


620  fn^ex 

Celery  (Continued) 

Stewed,  plain,  I-V,  154,  155;  with  cream, 

155;  brown,  155 
with  bread  sauce,  155 

Chestnuts,  nineteen  ways  to  cook,  1 61-166 
Boiled,  161 
Compote  of,  165 
Croquettes,  I-IV,  164 
Pudding,  165 
Pur^e  of,  I-IV,  162,  163 
Roasted,  161 
Stewed,  I-III.  163 
with  brown  sauce,  166 
with  prunes,  166 

Corn,  eighty-seven  ways  to  cook,  167— 191 
Baked,  canned,  I,  II,  168;  fresh,  168 
Boiled,  I-IV,  167,  168 
Broiled,  168 

Chowder,  plain,  172;  Creole,  173 
Creamed,  canned,   169;  fresh,   169;  hulled, 

169 
Croquettes,  I-III,  179,  180 
Custard,  173 
Dainty,  172 
Drops,  172 
Escalloped,  plain,  I-III,  170;  with  tomatoes, 

171 
Fried,  I,  II,  171 

Fritters,  I-XIII,  185-188;  Southern,  190 
Indian  cakes,  171 


f  n^ex  63 I 

Corn  (Continued) 

Kentucky  patties,  174 

Omelet,  173 

Oysters,  I-VI,  183,  184 

Porridge,  173 

Pudding,  plain,  I-V,  180,  181;   blue-grass, 

182;  Southern,  182;  Virginia,  183 
Roasted,  I-III,  174,  i75 
Souffle,  I-III,  178,  179 
Stewed,  plain,   I-IV,    176;    k  la  Virginia, 
178;  with  cream,  177;  with  tomatoes,  177 
Succotash,  plain,  I-VII,  188-190 
Timbales,  175 

Cucumbers,  fifty-four  ways  to  cook,   192-209 
k  la  Bechamel,  I,  II,  207 
k  la  creme,  207 
k  I'Espagnole,  207 
k  ritalienne,  208 
k  la  mattre  d'h6tel,  I,  II,  208 
k  la  poulette,  I,  II,  208,  209 
Baked,  I,  II,  192 
Creamed,  k  I'Anglaise,  206 
Devilled,  196 

Escalloped,  I-IV,  193-194 
Fried,  I-IV,  192,  193 
Fritters,  I,  II,  194,  i95 
Mashed,  195 
on  toast,  196 

Ragout  of,  with  onions,  196 
Stewed,  plain,   I-VIII,  197-199;  k  la  Be- 
chamel, 199 


63a  tnbCX 

Cucumbers  (Continued) 

Stuffed,    plain,     I-XVI,     199-205;     k     la 

Grecque,  306;  with  tomato  sauce,  306 
Timbales,  195 

Bggplant,  forty-seven  ways  to  cook,  310-326 
k  la  Cr6ole,  334 
k  la  Lyons,  335 
k  la  Provence,  335 
au  gratin,  334 
Baked,  plain,  I-VII,  3ii,  3X3;   k  la  Fran- 

9aise,  313;  with  cheese,  3x3 
Boiled,  I,  II,  3XO 
Broiled,  310 

Escalloped,  I,  II,  315,  316 
Farci,  316 
Fried,  plain,  I-IV,  313,  314;  creamed,  315; 

with  Parmesan  cheese,  314 
Fritters,  3x5 
Loaf,  3x7 
Mashed,  317 
Stewed,  plain,  I,  II,  8x7,  2x8;  with  onions, 

3x8 
Stuffed,  plain,  I-X,  330-333;  k  Tltalienne, 

I,  II,  233;  with  nuts,  334;  with  tomatoes. 

I,  II,  223,  223 
with  cheese  sauce,  3x6 

Hominy,  fifteen  ways  to  cook,  337-331 
Baked,  I,  II,  327,  338 
Boiled,  I,  II,  227 
Croquettes,  I-V,  228,  339 


fndex  6a3 

Hominy  (Continued) 

Fried,  I-III,  229,  230 
Fritters,  230 
Puffs,  230 
Soufla^,  231 

Lentils,  eighteen  ways  to  cook,  232-237 
k  I'Egyptienne,  I,  II,  236 
Baked,  plain,  232;  with  nuts,  232 
Boiled,  232 
Croquettes,  233 
Curried,  I,  II,  233 
Pur6e  of,  I,  II,  235 
Rolls,  234 
Savory,  236 
Souffle,  236 
Stewed,  236 
with  bacon,  235 
with  cream  sauce,  233 
with  onions,  234 
with  rice,  234 

Macaroni,  eighty  ways  to  cook,  238-261 
k  TAm^ricaine,  251 
k  TAnglaise,  251 
k  la  B6chamel,  I,  252;  II,  253 
k  la  Bologna,  I,  II,  252 
k  la  cr^me,  253 
k  la  Florence,  253 
k  la  Galli,  254 
k  la  Geneva,  254 
k  la  Genoa,  254 
k  la  Grecque,  254 


624  fnder 

Macaroni  (Continued) 

k  ritalienne,  I-VI,  255,  256 

k  la  Madrid,  356 

k  la  Milanaise,  I-III,  257,  258 

k  la  Naples,  I,  II,  259,  260 

k  la  Neapolitan,  I-IV,  258,  259 

k  la  Palermo,  260 

k  la  reine,  260 

k  la  Roma,  261 

k  la  Waldorf,  261 

Baked,  I-V,  238,  239 

Buttered,  I,  II,  238 

Creamed,  240 

Croquettes,  I-VII,  240-249 

Curried,  240 

Escalloped,  I,  242;  II,  243 

in  cheese  shell,  247 

Rarebit,  245 

Stewed,  I-III,  243;  IV,  244 

Timbale  of,  I,  II,  244;  III,  245 

with  asparagus,  246 

with  brown  butter,  246 

with  brown  sauce,  I,  II,  246 

with  cheese,  247 

with  cheese  sauce,  247 

with  chestnuts,  247 

with  chicken  souffle,  248 

with  cream,  249 

with  gravy,  249 

with  ham,  I,  II,  249 

with  mushrooms,  250 

with  oysters,  250 


fnoex  635 

Macaroni  (Cotttinued) 

with  piquante  sauce,  248 
with  tomatoes,  I,  II,  251 
with  tomato  sauce,  250 

Miscellaneous  Recipes,  583-594 
Bananas,  583,  584 

Baked,  I,  II,  583 

Escalloped,  584 

Fried,  I,  II,  583,  584 
Com  mush,  fried,  585 
Curry  of  vegetables,  I,  II,  584,  585 
Gnocchi,  I,  II,  586;  k  la  Frangaise,  587;  au 

gratin,  587 
greens,  585;  beet,  585;  dandelion,  586 
Indian  Pilau,  591 
Jardiniere  of  vegetables,  593 
Kohl-rabi,  588,  589 

Creamed,  588 

Espagnole,  588 

Stewed,  I,  II,  588 

Stuffed,  589 
Mac6doine,  I-IV,  593,  594 
Nut  croquettes,  589 
Polenta,  I-IV,  589,  590 
Pur^e  of  vegetables,  592 
Ragoiit  of  vegetables,  591 
Sauer  Kraut,  boiled,  591 
Sea  Kale,  I,  II,  587 
Vegetable  hash,  592 
Vegetables  au  gratin,  592 
Vermicelli  k  la  reine,  59a 

40 


636  fndex 

Mushrooms,  ninety-fivje  ways  to  cook,  262-291 
k  la  Bordelaise,  I-IV,  286,  287 
k  la  Cr^le,  288 
k  la  Dumas,  288 
k  la  Pran9aise,  288 
k  ritalienne,  289 
k  la  poulette,  I,  II,  289 
k  la  Provence,  290 
k  la  Provenjale,  I,  II,  290 
k  la  Sabine,  291 
au  gratin,  289 
Baked,  plain,  I-IV,  263,   264;   au  gratin, 

267;   beefesteak,    266;   in   cups,    266;    in 

ramekins,  266;  stuffed,   I-III,  264,  265; 

with  cheese,  267;  with  oysters,  266 
Broiled,  I-III,  262 
Broiled  beefsteak,  263 
Buttered,  274 
Creamed,   plain,   267;   in  shell,    267;   with 

eggs,  267 
Croquettes,  273 
Curried,  268 
Devilled,  I,  II,  268 
Escalloped,  I-V,  269,  270 
Farci,  283 

Fricassee  of,  I-III,  273 
Fried,  I,  II,  271;  on  toast,  271 
in  ramekins,  286 
in  shells,  280 
Patties,  286 
Pie,  285 
Pur^e  of,  I,  II,  284 


fndex  637 

Mushrooms  {Continued) 

Ragoiit  of,  I,  II,  284,  285 

Saut^,  plain,    271;    h.    la    Bordelaise,    371; 

beefsteak,  272 
Smothered,  I,  II,  285,  286 
Souffle,  273 
Stewed,  plain,  I-XII,  274-278;  canned,  277; 

in  wine,  I,  II,  278 
Stuffed,  plain,  I,  II,  282;  k  la  Neapolitan, 

283 
Toast,  285 

under  glass,  I-IV,  281,  282 
with  cream,  280 
with  eggs,  280 
with  fine  herbs,  279 
with  macaroni,  279 
with  oysters,  279 
with  tomato  sauce,  279 
with  white  wine  and  cream,  278 

Noodles,  nineteen  ways  to  cook,  292-297 
k  la  Badoise,  I,  II,  296 
k  la  Fran^aise,  297 
k  la  Frascati,  297 
k  la  Parmesan,  297 
au  gratin,  296 

Baked,  plain,  293;  cheese,  393 
Boiled,  292 
Buttered,  293 
Escalloped,  293 
German,  294 
Spanish,  295 


628  fiiDer 

Noodles  (Continued) 
Swiss,  295 
to  make,  I,  II,  292 
with  cottage  cheese,  294 
with  mushrooms,  294 
with  Parmesan  cheese,  295 

Okra,  twenty  ways  to  cook,  298-303 
k  la  Creole,  302 
k  la  HoUandaise,  303 
Boiled,  I,  II,  298 
Escalloped,    plain,     298;    with    tomatoes, 

298 
Fried,  plain,  I,  II,  299;  in  batter,  299 
Saut6  k  la  Creole,  299 
Stewed,  k  I'Espagnole,  302;   k  la  Virginia, 

302;    with    corn,    301;    with    rice,    301; 

with  tomatoes,  I,  II,  300;  with  tomato 

sauce,  302 
Succotash,  301 
with  corn,  300 
with  tomatoes,  300 

Onions,  sixty-three  ways  to  cook,  304-323 
k  la  Bechamel,  311 
k  ritalienne,  311 
k  la  supreme,  311 
Baked,  plain,  I-IX,  304-306;  creamed,  307; 

Spanish,  306 
Boiled,  I,  II,  304 

Creamed,  plain,  309;  with  rice,  310 
Custard,  319 
Escalloped,  I-IV,  310,  311 


fnDer  629 

Onions  (Continued) 
Farci,  322 
Fried,   plain,   308;   German,   309;   French, 

309;  Spanish,  309 
German  pie,  319 
Glazed,  I-IV,  307,  308 
in  brown  sauce,  322 
Mashed,  plain,  322;  ^  la  Bretagne,  312 
Roasted,  I,  II,  319 
Smothered,  Spanish,  3*22 
Souffle,  321 

Spring,  stewed,  321;  on  toast,  321 
Stewed,  I-III,  312 
Stuffed,  I — XIII,  313-318;  creamed,  318; 

stewed,  318 
with  eggs,  320 
with  cheese,  I,  II,  320 

Parsnips,  twenty-five  ways  to  cook,  324—330 
Baked,  I,  II,  324,  3^5 
Balls,  I,  II,  325,  326 
Boiled,  I,  II,  324 
Buttered,  325 
Cakes,  I-III,  326,  327 
Creamed,  325 
Escalloped,  I,  II,  327 
Fried,  I-III.  328 
Fritters,  329 
Mashed,  329 
Stewed,  I-III,  330 
Timbales,  329 
with  bacon,  330 


630  tMCX 

Parsnips  {Continued) 

with  drawn  butter  sauce,  329 

Peas,  fifty-three  ways  to  cook,  331-349 
k  rAUemande,  344 
k  I'Anglaise,  344 
k  la  bourgeoise,  344 
k  la  Fran9aise,  I-IV,  345,  346 
k  la  Waldorf,  347 
Baked,  mashed,  332 
Boiled,  I,  II,  331 
Buttered,  333 
Cakes,  334 

Canned,  I,  II,  331,  332 
Chowder,  332 
Creamed,  332 
Croquettes,  333 
Curry,  with  potatoes,  334 
French,  335 
Fritters,  335 
in  turnip  cups,  338 
Pancakes,  342 
Patties,  342 
Pudding,  343 
Pur6e  of,  I-VI,  338-340 
RagoM  of,  342 
Steamed,  342 
Stewed,  I-IV,  340,  341 
Souffle,  343 
Timbales,  343 
with  egg  barley,  338 
with  onions,  337 


fndex  631 

Peas  {Continued) 
with  rice,  335 
with  Spanish  sauce,  337 
Dried  Peas,  333 
k  la  Franjaise,  346 
k  la  Provence,  I,  II,  346 
Baked,  333 
en  croustades,  334 

Peppers,  thirty-three  ways  to  cook,  348-359 
k  la  Creole,  348 
Boiled,  348 
Fried,  I,  II,  348 
Pur^e  of,  349 
Stewed,  349 
Stuffed,    I-XIX,    350-357;    k    la    Creole, 

358;  with  chicken,  358;  with  corn,  358; 

fried,  357;  Mexican,  359;  with  oysters,  357 
with  eggs,  349 

Pleasing  Tables  and  Vegetables,  1-4 

Potatoes,  three  hundred  and  thirty-six  ways 
to  cook,  360-474 
New  Potatoes,  399,  400 

k  TAnglaise,  400 

Boiled,  399 

Browned  in  butter,  40b 

Creamed,  400 

Imitation,  400 
Sweet  Potatoes,  458-474 

k  r Alabama,  471 

k  la  Carolina,  471 


639  fndei 

"PoTATOBS-iContinued) 
k  la  Creole,  471 
k  la  Richmond,  473 
au  gratin,  472 

Baked,  I,  II,  458;  mashed,  459;  stufEed,  459 
Balls,  460 
Boiled,  458 
Broiled,  460 
Browned,  459 
Buttered,  459 
Candied,  I,  II,  463 
Cones,  463 
Creamed,  462 
Croquettes,  I-IV,  460,  461;  with  almonds, 

461 ;  with  chestnuts,  461 
Escalloped,    I-V,    463,    464;    with   bacon, 

465;  with  white,  463;  473-474 
Fried,  I-iy,  465,  466;  French,  466,  474 
Fritters,  466 
Glazed,  467-473 
in  casserole,  462 
Mashed,  I,  II,  467 
Patties,  468 
Puff,  468;  puflfs,  468 
Pur^e  of,  468 
Roasted,  I,  II,  469 
Saut6,  474 
Shells,  471 
Souffle,  469 
Southern,  470 
Steamed,  469 
Stewed,  I,  II,  470 


fubex  633 


Potatoes  (Continued) 

Warmed  over,  I,  II,  47a,  473 
with  apples,  467 
White  Potatoes,  360-457 
k  rAmericaine,  431 
k  TAnna,  431 
k  la  Bignon,  432 
k  la  Bordelaise,  I,  II,  43a 
k  la  bourgeoise,  433 
k  la  chateau,  433 
k  la  Chateaubriande,  433 
k  la  cr^me,  433 
k  la  Delmonico,  I,  II,  434 
k  la  duchesse,  I-V,  434,  435 
k  la  Franconia,  436 
k  la  Genevoise,  436 
k  la  Hanover,  437 
k  la  Harper,  437 
k  la  Hollandaise,  I,  II,  438 
k  ritalienne,  438 
k  la  maltre  d'hotel,  I,  II,  439 
k  la  Nantaise,  439 
k  la  Navarraise,  440 
k  la  Parisienne,  I,  II,  440 
k  la  poulette,  440 
k  la  Proven9ale,  441 
k  la  Rector,  441 
k  la  Roma,  I,  II,  441 
k  la  Rouennaise,  44a 
k  la  Toyale,  44a 
k  la  Saranac,  44a 
k  la  Viemie,  I-III,  442,  443 


634  fndei 

Potatoes  (Continued) 

au  gratin,  I-III,  436,  437 

Baked,  I,  II,  365,  366;  with  cheese,  I,  II, 
367;  dice,  367;  with  eggs,  368;  hashed, 
366;  mashed,  366;  savory,  368;  Swedish, 
368 

Balls,  I-V,  363,  364;  German,  I-III,  364, 
365;  saut^,  392 

Boiled,  plain,  I,  II,  360;  old,  361 ;  quick,  360 

Border,  I-III,  361,  362 

Barigoule,  433 

Broiled,  361 

Browned,  I-III,  369 

Cake,  374;  cakes,  I-VI,  375,  376;  Ger- 
man, 376 

Casserole,  I-IV,  373 

Cones,  I,  II,  370 

Cream,  372 

Creamed,  I-III,  370,  371;  k  la  Bristol,  371: 
baked,  369 

Croquettes,  I-XI,  376-379;  k  la  Bechamel, 
381;  Italian,  380;  stuffed,  I,  II,  380; 
with  rice,  381 

Croustade,   plain,   372;   k  la   Regent,    372 

Curls,  394 

Curried,  372 

Devilled,  392 

Duchess,  I-III,  383;  balls,  384 

Dumplings,  I-IV,  381,  382 

Escalloped,  I-V,  384,  385;  with  cheese,  386 

Favorite,  386 

Flakes.  386 


I 


fnocjc  635 

Potatoes  (Continued) 

Fried,  I-VI,  389,  390;  balls  or  dice,  392; 
Dutch,  392;  French,  I,  II,  391;  German, 
391;  puffed,  393;  with  cream,  393 

Fritters,  I-VIII,  387-389;  German,  389 

Glazed,  395 

Hashed,  brown,  35;  creamed,  396 

Julienne,  394 

Kentucky,  396 

Latticed,  393 

Lyonnaise,  396 

Mangle,  398 

Mashed,  I,  II,  396,  397;  k  la  bourgeoise, 
397;  ^  la  TEspagnole,  398;  au  gratin, 
398;  browned,  398;  perfect,  397 

Nests,  I,  II,  398,  399 

O'Brien,  400 

Omelet,  I,  II,  401 

Pancakes,  407 

Patties,  402 

Pudding,  402 

Puff,  I-III,  402,  403;  Bohemian,  404;  puffs, 
I-III,  404;  fried.  395 

Pur6e  of,  I,  II,  401,  402 

Quenelles,  I,  II,  405 

Ragout,  405 

Ribbons,  394 

Riced,  406 

Roasted,  plain,  407;  Parisienne,  407 

Rolls,  406 

Roses,  I,  II,  406 

Saratoga  chips,  392 


636  fitDec 

Potatoes  (Continued) 
Scones,  408 
Shells,  408 
Smothered,  408 
Souffle,  I-XIV,  4x0-4x4 
Sour,  408 
Steamed,  407 
Stewed,  I-XIII,   415-419:   old*   4195  ^^^"^ 

cheese,  419;  with  omons,  419 
Stuffed,     I-X,     420-423;     baked,      I-VI. 

423-425;  cakes,  425;  devilled,  42$;  with 

meat,  I,  II,  426 
Surprise,  I-V,  409,  410 
Timbale,  I-IV,  426,  427; 
Timbales.  I-III,  428 
whipped,  429 
with  cheese,  430 

with  cheese  sauce,  I-III,  499,  430 
with  corn,  430 
with  onion,  saut^,  395 
with  parsley,  431 
with  sauce  piquante,  431 
Left  overs,  443-457  -^ 

k  la  bourgeoise,  455 
k  la  Bretonne,  455 
k  la  Colbert,  456 
k  la  cr^me,  455 
k  la  Duchesse,  456 
k  TEmpress,  456 
k  la  London,  456 
k  la  Princess,  457 
k  la  Provence,  457 


tMCX  637 

Potatoes  (Continued) 

Baked,  creamed,  I,  II,  444;  hashed,  444; 

mashed,  444 
Browned,.  443 
Cakes,  I-III,  445 
Croquettes,  446 
Delmonico  cream  roll,  445 
Escalloped,  I-III,  446;  with  eggs,  447 
Fried,  I-III,  447;  in  balls,  448;  devilled,  448; 

German,  448 
Fritters,  449 
Hashed,  449;  brown,  I,  II,  449,  450;  with 

cream  sauce,  45*0 
in  chicken  gravy,  45a 
Lyonnaise,  I,  II,  451 
Omelet,  451 
Puff,  451;  puffs,  4Sa 
Rissoles,  453 
Saut^,  I,  II,  448 

Stewed,  I-VI,  453,  454;  savory,  454 
Surprise,  455 
with  cabbage,  45a 
with  white  sauce,  453 

Rice,  ninety  ways  to  cook,  475-501 
k  la  Creole,  500 
k  ritalienne,  500 
k  la  Milanaise,  500 
k  la  Russe,  500 
Balls,  I,  II,  478 
Boiled,  I-VI,  475,  476 
Border,  I-III,  477-478 


638  fnOex 

RiCB  (Continued) 
Broiled,  476 
Buttered,  I-III,  477 
Casserole,  480 
Croquettes,     I-XVI,      480-485;      German, 

486;    Southern,    486;    with    mushrooms, 

I,  II,  487;  with  tomato,  486 
Croustade,  480 
Curried,  I-IV,  479 
Cutlets,  487 
Escalloped,  I,  II,  488 
Fried,  I,  II,  488 
Mexican,  491 
Milianaise,  491 
Moulded,  I,  II,  490 
Neapolitan,  491 
Pilaff,  488 

Rissotto,  I-IV,  491,  493 
Savory,  I-IX,  493-495 
with  bacon,  490 
with  cheese,  I,  II,  489;  with  cream-cheese, 

490 
with  tomato  sauce,  489 

Salsify,  twenty-five  ways  to  cook,  502-508 
^  la  poulette,  I,  II,  508 
Baked,  I,  II,  50a 
Boiled,  502 
Cakes,  504 
Creamed,  502 
Croquettes,  503 
Escalloped,  I,  II,  503;  with  celery,  503 


fndet  639 

Salsify  (Continued) 

Fried,  I-VII,  504.  505 
Fritters,  I-III,  506 
Saut6,  507 
Stewed,  I,  II,  507 
with  brown  sauce,  507 

Sauces  for    vegetables,  fifty-one,  5-17 
AUemande,  I,  II,  5 
B6arnaise,  I-III,  5,6 
Bechamel,  7 
Beurre  noir.  7 
Brown  butter,  7 
Brown,  I-III,  7 
Brown  Italian,  8 
Butter  I,  II,  8 
Caper,  8 
Cheese,  8 
Colbert,  8 
Cream,  9 
Curry,  9 
Drawn  butter,  9 
Dutch,  9 

Duxelles,  I,  II,  10 
Egg,  10 
Espagnole,  10 
French  dressing,  11 
Hollandaise,  11 
Italian,  11 
Italian,  brown,  8 
Madeira,  12 
Malre  d*h6tel,  12 


640  fllOCK 

Sauces  (Continued) 

Mayonnaise,  la 

Mushroom,  12 

Onion,  13 

Parsley,  I,  II,  13 

Piquante,  I,  II,  13, 14 

Poulette,  14 

Quick  B^arnaise,  6 

Sweet-and-sour,  14 

Spanish,  14 

Tartare,  15 

Tomato,  I-VI,  15, 16;  cream,  16 

Spaghetti,  thirty-one  ways  to  cook,   509-519 
k  I'Americaine,  509 
k  la  Bechamel,  509 
k  la  Florence,  509 
k  ritalienne,  I-IV,  510,  511 
k  la  Naples,  511 
k  la  Neapolitan,  511 
k  la  Palermo,  512 
k  la  Roma,  513 
k  la  Tomaso,  512 
Baked,  513 
Creamed,  515 
Croquettes,  I,  II,  514 
Devilled,  514 

Escalloped  with  oysters,  515 
Greek,  515 
in  cheese  shell,  516 
Rarebit,  516 
R6chauff6,  518 


fndex  641 

Spaghetti  (Continued) 
Stewed,  518 
Timbale,  of,  518 
with  bacon,  513 

with  cheese,  515;  with  Swiss  cheese,  516 
with  tomato  sauce,  I-IV,  517 

Spinach,   twenty-nine  ways  to   cook,    520—528 
k  TAUemande,  I-III,  526 
k  I'Anglaise,  527 
k  la  Babette,  527 
k  la  cr^me,  527 
k  TEspangnole,  527 
k  la  Franjaise,  527 
k  ritalienne,  528 
k  la  mode,  528 
Balls,  521 

Boiled,  I-III,  520;  k  TAUemande,  521 
Buttered,  521 
Cream  of,  522 
Moulded,  I-III,  522,  523 
Pur6e  of,  523 
Rissoles,  523 
SoufH6,  I-IV,  524,  5^5 
Stewed,  523 
Timbale,  I,  II,  525 

Squash,  thirty-two  ways  to  cook,  529-537 
au  gratin,  I,  II,  536 

Baked,  I-III,  530;  summer,  531;  winter,  531 
Boiled,  I,  II,  529-  stunmer,  529;  winter,  530 
Cakes,  I,  II,  531-532 
Compote,  531 

4X 


642  fn^eJr 

Squash  (Continued) 
Creamed,  I,  II,  53a 
Croquettes,  531 
Escalloped,  I,  II,  532,  533 
Flaked,  533 

Fried,  533;  summer,  533 
Roasted,  534 
Mashed,  534 

Steamed,  536;  winter,  536 
Stuffed,  I-VI,  534-536 

Tomatoes,  one  hundred  ways  to  cook,  538—570 
k  rindienne,  569 
k  la  Marseilles,  570 
au  gratin,  569 
Baked,    I-X,    539-541;    k    la  Creole,    542; 

creamed,  543;  sliced,  542;  with  corn,  543; 

with  eggs,  542 
Breaded,  538 

Broiled,  I,  II,  538;  with  sauce,  538 
Buttered,  539 

Croquettes,  543 ;  with  rice,  544 
Curried,  I-V,   544,   545  *  wi^^  dkra,,  546 
Devilled,  I-V,  546,  547 
Escalloped,  I-VI,  548,  549;  with  com,  550; 

with   macaroni,    549;   with   onions,    550; 

with  potatoes,  550;  with  rice,  551 
Farci,  551 
Fried,  I-III,    552,  553;    with   cream,    553; 

green,   553;  with  onions,  553;  with  -p&p- 

pers,  554 
Fritters,  I-III,  551-552 


fndex  643 

Tomatoes  (Continued) 
Pilau  of,  554 
Pur6e,  554 
Roasted,  554 
Scramble,  567 
Souffle,  I,  II,  567 
Spanish,  567 
Stewed,    I— VII,    555,    556;    canned,   557; 

green,   I,   II,   556,  557;  with  celery,   557; 

with  corn,  558;  with  cheese,  557 
Stuffed,    I— XVIII.  558-564;    a  la  Creole, 

566;   k  la  Sicily,  I-III,   564-565;  baked, 

566;   with    corn,  565;    with   mushrooms, 

565 
Toast,    I,    II,  568,  569;   with   mushrooms, 

569 
with  eggs,  568 

with  macaroni  and  cheese,  568 

Turnips,  forty-six  ways  to  cook,  571-582 
k  I'Allemande,  581 
k  la  poulette,  I,  II,  581 
au  gratin,  581 
Baked,  I,  II,  571,  573 
Balls,   plain,    572;   k  la  poulette,    572;   in 

potato  border,  573 
Boiled,  571;  tops,  571;  yellow,  571 
Browned,  572 
Charlotte,  573 
Creamed,  573 
Croquettes,  573 
Escalloped  with  potato,  574 


644  Index 

Turnips  (Continued) 
Fried,  I,  II,  575 
Glazed,  I,  II,  575,  576 
in  brown  sauce,  577 
Mashed,  I-III,  576 
Pur^e  of,  I-III,  577,  578 
Ragoiit  of,  577 
Roasted,  576 
Steamed,  581 
Stewed,  I-VIII,  578,  579 
Stuffed,  I-III,  580 
with  carrots,  I,  II,  574 
with  potatoes,  574 
with  sweet  potatoes,  575 


A  Selection  from  the 
Catalogue  of 

G.  P.  PUTNAM'S  SONS 


Conplete  CAtalo|(ue«  •ent 
otk  appllci^tloK. 


No  more  unique  or  welcome  sift  forabram^ 
fagged  bouae^wife  can  be  imagined  duut  tbi$ 
Utile  aeriea  of  handbooks  in  their  quaint  plaid 
gingham^  covers^  comprising  any  number  of 
tried  recipes. 

Putnam's    Homemaker    Series 

By  Oli-v^e  Crevn 

Bach^  x6imWyBound  in  Blue  Apron  Ginghant, 
Paper  Labels^  net,  f  x.oo 

I.  What  to  Have  fbf  Breakfast, 

^  One  might  conscientiously  use  a  number  of  enthusi- 
astic adjectives  about  Olive  Green's  Guide  to  the  Cheer- 
ful Life.  It  is  a  small  book,  but  any  one  who  looks 
It  over  can  find  a  hundred  reasons  for  owning  it,  and, 
failing  to  publish  it,  the  Board  of  Home  Missions  lost  an 
opportunity."— /,(/>,  N.  Y,  ' 

"  One  of  the  sanest  brochuces  on  the  food  question 
yet  published." — N.  Y,  Evening  Mail. 

**  whoever  follows  its  laws  will  bring  peace  to  her 
household  and  kindly  fame  to  herself.  It  is  the  best 
book  in  all  the  world  with  which  to  start  the  fresh  day^, 
and  an  intelligent  application  of  its  rules  may  set  m 
motion  the  very  springs  of  heroism,  joy,  and  achieve- 
ment."— Chicago  Tribune, 

II.  Everyday  Luncheong. 

**  Here  are  365  menus,  one  for  every  day  in  the  year, 
besides  a  variety  of  recipes  that  have  a  toothsome  aspect 
in  print  and  have  not  been  found  wanting  in  practice,  as 
we  are  assured.  There  are  some  introductory  words  on 
*  Luncheons,  Wise  and  Foolish,*  which  contain  sound 
philosophy  with  a  coating  of  humor." 

Pittsburg  Gagette. 

**  Covers  the  whole  subject  in  a  complete  ana  compre- 
hensive fashion." — Albany  Argus, 

*  A  helpful  companion  for  any  woman  seeking  to 
vdry  her  menus.^  The  recipes  are  economical,  in  many 
cases  new,  and  in  all  cases  practicaL 

The  Congreguiionalist. 

"It  is  well  worth  the  attention  of  every  careful 
housewife." — Boston  Times. 


G.  P.  Patnam's  Sons 

New  York  Loadan 


Putnam's  Homemaker  Series 


III.      One  Thousand  Simple  Soups* 

^^*  Tts  information  is  all  practical  and  every  recipe  contained 
within  its  covers  is  well  worth  trying.  It  will  prove  a  valu- 
able addition  to  the  domestic  shelf  of  any  housewife  whether 
she  be  her  own  cook  or  not.*' — Netoark  Advertiser, 

"  The   recipes  are  well^classed  and  are  distinctly  good. 
The  neat  little  volume  deserves  a  prominent  place  upon  the 


kitchen  ihelf." — Chicago  Record'tlerald, 


IV.      How  to  Cook  ShelUFish. 

**  Olive  Green,  that  merry,  instructive  writer  of  readable 
cook-books,  is  again  to  the  front  with  a  dear  little  gingham- 
bound  volume  entitled  How  to  Cook  Shbll«Fish.  .  . 
Recipes  almost  innumerable,  varied  in  character  but  univer- 
sally tempting,  follow,  with  blank  pages  for  new  ones.  Here 
is  a  deligntftil  gift  for  the  chafing-dish  expert  or  the  dainty 
housekeeper." — Chicago  Record'Herald, 


V.      How  to  Cook  Fish. 

"  Miss  Green  is  indeed  a  past  mistress  of  the  art  of  cook- 
ing; her  rules  may  always  be  relied  upon  in  everyway." — 
Providence  yournal, 

*'  Up-to-date  and  reliable — a  book  all  housewives  will 
grasp  gxetdiXy**— Detroit  News, 

**  The  directions  are  brief  and  dear."— -vSViff  Francisco 
Chronicle, 


G.  P.  PUTNAM'S  SONS 

New  York  London 


goofeg  for  tbe  fcougebolb 

Household  Economics 

A  Course  of  Lectures  in  the  School  of  Economics 
of  the  University  of  Wisconsin.  By  Helen 
Campbell,  author  of  **  Prisoners  of  Poverty," 
**  American  Girls' Home  Book/*  etc.  Octavo, 
gilt  top $i-50 

**  A  truly  remnrkable  woik.  .  .  .  The  author  evinces  a 
thorough  Knowled^  of  her  subject,  and  she  treats  of  it  in  a 
luminous  and  logical  manner,  and  is  thoroughly  practical 
.  .  .  The  bo^  should  be  read  in  every  intelligent  houae- 
h(dd  where  the  author's  living  voice  cannot  be  heard." — 
N.  y.  Observer, 

The  Majestic  Family  Cook  Book 

By  Adolphe  Gallier,  Chef  of  the  Majestic  Hotel, 
New  York.  Containing  1300  selected  recipes, 
simplified  for  the  use  of  housekeepers ;  also  a  few 
choice  bills  of  fare.     Octavo       .         .        $2.50 


»»i 


^M.  Gallier  has  taken  advantage  of  his  lon^  professional 
career  in  the  culinary  art,  and  now  presents  in  convenient 
form  his  entire  lore  in  a  neatly  printed  volume.  .  .  .  The 
author  may  be  considered  the  most  accomplished  of  artists. 
.  .  .  The  book  is  invaluable  to  every  household.'* — New 
York  Times, 

Three  Hundred  and  Sixty-Six 

Dinners 

Suggested  by  M.  E.  N.     i6mo,  gilt  top      .     $1.25 

**  This  is  a  daintily  printed  book  issued  by  the  Putnams. 
The  daily  dinner,  not  the  exceptional  feast,  is  its  theme, 
though  a  few  menus  are  provided.  Each  bill  of  fare  is 
introduced  by  an  epigram  or  quotation  from  a  good  author." 
— Cineinnati  Times-Star, 


<B.  p*  putnam'0  Sons 

New  Ycrk  London 


w 


I    : 


1 

[ 


fj  ^  ■  •;  f 


LDPC 


