Class    /  A 


Book. 


~? 


Gopyiight^N?. 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


The 


Ideal  Cook  Book 


BY 


MRS.  CLARA  WARE 


This  Book  Will   be  Sent    to   Any   Address  Upon   Receipt  of  $1 

Remittances  should  be  made  by  draft,  express  money  order  or  postal  money 

order  payable  to  Mrs.  Clara  Ware,  P.  O.  Box  131,  Warren,  Indiana. 

Foreign  and  Domestic  Postage  Ten  Cents. 


.25 


Copyright  igi2 
By  Mrs.  Clara  Ware 


ji. 


r 


CCI.A314846 


AFFECTIONATELY  DEDICATED 

TO  MY  DAUGHTERS, 

MYRTLE  AND  AIMEE  WARE. 


PREFACE 


With  the  present  high  cost  of  living,  it  behooves  every  housewife  to 
make  each  dollar  do  its  utmost  as  a  purchasing  power,  and  in  writing  this  book 
f   have  kept  that  thought  in  mind. 

Within  my  years  of  experience,  as  a  housewife  and  cook,  I  have  become  ac- 
quainted with  almost  every  known  brand  of  staple  and  fancy  groceries,  and  it 
is  needless  to  say  that  I  have  discarded  the  inferior  for  the  superior.  The 
frequent  inquiries  from  friends,  as  to  the  best  brands  of  materials  and  house- 
hold conveniences  which  I  use,  suggested  this  rather  unusual  mode  of  illustra- 
tion. 

My  attention  has  also  been  directed  toward  the  different  lines  of  household 
equipments.  Each  housewife  of  today,  should  have  all  the  labor  saving- 
devices,  within  her  means,  as  the  waste  of  time  and  strength  is  extravagance 
in  the  end. 

The  hardware  and  ten  cent  stores  of  today  along  with  other  lines  of  busi- 
ness, afford  great  possibilities,  for  rich  and  poor  alike.  The  illustration  on  op- 
posite page  has  been  arranged  for  those  wbo  wish  to  benefit  by  my  experience, 
in  the  best  and  most  up-to-date  household  articles,  to  be  found  on  the  market. 

The  canned  goods  displayed  in  the  little  cupboard,  have  been  placed  there 
on  their  merits  as  the  best  medium  priced  brands  which  I  have  found  as  good  as 
many  of  the  fancy,  high  priced  products  which  are  not  within  the  means  of  the 
majority  of  people.  I  therefore  give  them,  complimentary,  a  place  of  honor  in 
my  book. 

C.    W. 


I 


sLAs\ 


i    soups    i 


TO  CLARIFY  SOUP  STOCK. 

Bemove  all  fat,  and  add  to  the  stock  to  be  cleared,  the  whites 
and  crushed  shells  of  as  many  eggs  as  there  are  quarts  of  stock. 
Beat  and  stir  until  it  has  boiled  for  two  minutes,  then  keep  it  hot 
without  simmering  for  fifteen  minutes,  in  order  that  the  albumen  as 
it  coagulates,  may  entangle  every  solid  particle  in  the  stock,  add 
I  cup  of  cold  water,  let  stand  for  five  minutes  longer,  and  then 
strain  through  a  fine  cloth  laid  over  a  strainer. 


SOUP  STOCK. 


6  pounds  shin  of  beef. 
3  quarts  cold  water. 
-J  teaspoon  peppercorns. 
J  cup  each  of  carrot,  turnip, 
onion  and  celery,  diced. 
2  tablespoons  salt. 


Pinch  of  thyme,  savory  and  mar 

joram. 
6  cloves. 
|  bay  leaf. 
2  sprigs  of  parsley. 


Have  the  bones  sawed  into  small  pieces,  and  split.  Cut  the  meat 
into  small  pieces,  and  brown  one-third  of  it  in  part  of  the  marrow 
from  the  bones,  to  improve  the  flavor  arid  color  of  the  soup.  Soak 
meat  and  bones  in  the  water  for  one  hour,  then  bring  slowly  to  the 
boiling  point,  and  cook  slowly  six  hours,  keeping  the  soup  pot 
closely  covered.  Add  vegetables  and  seasonings.  Simmer  one  and 
one-half  hours  and  strain  and  cool  as  quickly  as  possible.  Do  not 
skim  until  just  before  using,  as  the  cake  of  fat  which  covers  the 
stock  excludes  the  air  and  prevents  the  stock  from  souring. 

WHITE  STOCK. 


carrots, 
ounces  butter, 
heads  celery, 
bunch  savory  herbs. 


3  pounds  of  knuckle  veal.  2 
2  small  onions,  stuck  with  cloves.  2 
\  teaspoon  whole  pepper.  2 

4  quarts  cold  water.  1 
I  pound  lean  pork. 

Cuts  the  meats  in  2  inch  cubes  and  break  up  the  bones.  Pour  the 
cold  water  over  and  set  on  back  of  range,  where  it  will  soak  and 
come  slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  Simmer  and  skim  occasionally 
until  half  done  then  salt  to  taste  and  add  vegetables.  Finish  cook- 
ing and  when  done  strain  through  a   hair  sieve  and  serve.     Can  be1 


6  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


thickened  with  a  little  corn  starch.  If  brown  stock  is  desired,  brown 
two  tablespoons  flour  in  the  oven,  add  to  it  a  tablespoon  or  more  of 
melted  butter,  which  has  been  browned  in  a  sauce  pan  and  blend  to- 
gether, add  stock  to  make  a  smooth  paste  and  pour  in  the  kettle  of 
stock.  If  you  wish  to  keep  the  stock  several  days  omit  the  corn 
starch  or  flour  and  ppur  in  self -sealing  cans  boiling  hot.  Seal 
and  place  on  ice.  This  stock  is  fine  cooked  with  vermicelli,  maca- 
roni, rice  or  hulled  barley.  In  making  brown  stock,  beef  should 
be  used  instead  of  veal. 

BOUILLON. 

Three  pounds  lean  neck  meat  or  round  steak  ground  fine,  pour 
over  2\  quarts  cold  water.  Keep  milk  warm  for  the  first  hour,  in- 
crease heat,  simmer  and  skim  for  about  4  hours  or  until  the  liquid 
has  boiled  down  enough  to  suit  the  taste.  Strain  through  a  thin 
cloth  and  let  partly  cool.  Return  to  fire,  salt  to  taste  and  let  it  raise 
the  boil.    Skim  well  again,  serve  hot  in  cups  with  wafers. 

BEEF  SOUP  WITH  NOODLES,  RICE,  OR  BARLEY. 

Take  a  15  cent  beef  shank,  wash  well  in  soda  water.  Cover  in 
cold  water,  simmer  slowly,  and  skim.  When  nearly  done  add  -J  cup 
uncooked  rice  or  pearl  barley,  and  a  small  onion.    Finish  cooking. 

NOODLES. 

Two  well  beaten  eggs,  2  tablespoons  cream  or  rich  milk  beaten 
with  the  eggs,  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  stiff  with  pastry  or  winter  wheat 
flour.  Flour  board  very  heavy.  Roll  as  for  pie  dough.  Use  noodle 
cutter  if  you  have  one,  if  not  roll  up  tightly  as  for  jelly  roll,  cut  in 
fine  strips.    Shake  out  and  cook  in  the  boiling  broth. 

Aimee  Ware. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Cut  a  young  hen  into  pieces  as  for  stewed  chicken.  Cover  well 
with  cold  water,  when  nearly  done  add  1  ripe  mango  shredded  fine, 
\  teaspoon  paprika,  3  stalks  celery,  and  J  cup  uncooked  rice.  Cook 
all  until  done.     Serve  with  salted  wafers. 

VEAL  SOUP. 

Put  a  knuckle  or  shank  of  veal  in  2  quarts  of  cold  water,  let 
it  raisle  the  boil  slowly  and  skim.  AAThen  nearly  done,  salt  and  add  3 
stalks  celery.     Finish  cooking  and  add  \  cup  cream  blended  with  1 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


tablespoon  corn  starch  and  the  yolk  of  1  well  beaten  egg.  Stir  into 
the  cream  and  corn  starch.  Add  a  little  soup  to  it  and  stir  into  the 
boiling  soup.     Remove  celery  stalks  and  serve. 

SCOTCH  MUTTON  BROTH. 

Use  4  pounds  neck  mutton  washed  well  in  salt  water,  and  cover 
with  2^  quarts  cold  water.  Cover  with  a  perforated  lid  to  allow  the 
mutton  fumes  to  escape.  When  about  half  done  add  2  carrots,  1 
turnip,  2  onions,  3  stalks  celery,  1  mango  and  a  little  red  pepper. 
Cook  all  together  until  done,  take  out  the  meat,  strain  out  the 
vegetables  and  add  \  cup  rice  or  pearl  barley  and  cook  until  tender. 
When  ready  to  serve  throw  in  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley. 

SPANISH  STEW. 

i 

3  J  pounds  chicken.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

5  ripe  tomatoes.  1  quart  boiling  water. 

4  red  peppers.  1  onion. 

1  can  French  peas.  Boiled  rice  or  mashed  potatoes,  or 

1  can  mushrooms.  3  large  potatoes. 

Clean  and  disjoint  chicken,  slice  the  tomatoes,  shred  the  pep- 
pers (removing  the  seeds)  and  slice  the  onions.  Place  the  chicken 
in  a  kettle  with  the  tomatoes,  peppers  and  onions.  Add  the  boiling 
water.  Cover  the  kettle  and  simmer  until  the  chicken  is  tender,  then 
remove  the  chicken,  strain  what  remains  in  the  kettle  and  rub  the 
vegetables  through  a  sieve.  Return  vegetables  to  -  the  kettle 
and  add  one  can  of  French  peas,  a  can  of  mushrooms  and  the  pota- 
toes, also  the  salt  and  cook  until  the  potatoes  are  tender. 
Then  replace  the  chicken  in  the  kettle  and  heat  thoroughly.  Serve 
with  a  border  of  mashed  potatoes  or  boiled  rice. 

TURKISH  SOUP. 

5  cups  of  stock  (either  brown  or  \\  cups  stewed  tomatoes. 

white).  10  peppercorns. 

\  cup  of  rice.  J  teaspoon  celery  salt. 

2  slices  of  onion.  2  tablespoons  butter. 
Bit  of  bay  leaf.  \\  tablespoons  flour. 

Cook  the  rice  in  stock  until  soft.  Cook  bay  leaf,  onion, 
peppercorns  and  celery  salt  with  tomatoes  thirty  minutes,  combine 
mixture,  and  bind  with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together. 


8  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


NORWEGIAN  SOUP. 

J  cup  minute  tapioca.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

4  cups  veal  or  mutton  stock.  1  onion. 

2  cups  milk.  2  stalks  celery,  diced. 

Blade  of  mace.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Add  the  tapioca  to  the  boiling  stock  (pearl  tapioca  may  be 
used,  but  should  soak  over  night  in  two  cups  of  cold  water)  and 
simmer  .1  hour.  Cook  celery,  onion  and  mace  in  the  milk  for  twenty 
minutes,  strain  into  the  soup,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  but- 
ter. 

ST.  GERMAIN  SOUP. 

Three  cups  white  stock,  blade  of  mace,  1  can  peas,  2  teaspoons 
sugar.  1  cup  cold  water,  1  teaspoon  salt,  \  onion,  \  teaspoon  pepper, 
bit  of  bay  leaf,  2  tablespoons  butter,  sprig  of  parsley,  2  tablespoons 
corn  starch,  1  cup  milk.  Drain  and  rinse  peas,  reserving  J  cup ; 
put  remainder  in  water  with  seasonings,  and  simmer  \  hour ;  rub 
through  sieve  and  add  stock.  Bind  with  butter  and  corn  starch  to- 
gether; boil  5  minutes,  add  milk  and  reserved  peas. 

CREAM  OF  OYSTER  SOUP. 

Drain  the  liquid  from  1  quart  of  fresh  oj^sters,  remove  all  shell, 
strain  the  broth  put  it  into  a  sauce  pan  and  add  1  quart  cold  water. 
Boil  and  skim,  put  oysters  into  broth.  Add  1  cup  cream  or  rich 
milk,  and  \  cup  pulverized  cracker  crumbs.  Pour  into  broth  and  let 
it  come  to  the  boil.  One  tablespoon  of  butter  should  be  added  to  the 
liquid  before  the  oysters  are  put  in.  Salt  and  pepper  and  serve  hot. 
Plain  oyster  stew  is  made  by  omitting  the  cream  and  crackers. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP. 

Cut  up  1  large  head  of  celery,  stew  in  1  quart  of  boiling  water 
for  15  minutes,  add  butter  and  salt.  Strain  out  the  celery,  add  \ 
cup  cream,  1  tablespoon  corn  starch  and  serve  with  salted  wafers  or 
bits  of  dry  browned  toast. 

VELVET  POTATO  SOUP. 

Boil  \  dozen  medium  sized  potatoes  and  1  onion  and  1  head  cel- 
ery until  tender.  Run  through  fine  sieve  or  potato  ricer.  Add  but- 
ter and  salt.  Let  boil  a  few  minutes,  add  \  cup  cream  and  1  table- 
spoon corn  starch  blended  together.     Stir  in  and  let  boil. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


POTATO  SOUP  WITH  RIVELS. 

Cook  \  dozen  potatoes  and  1  onion  with  1  liberal  tablespoon 
butter  until  done.  Salt  and  pepper.  Take  1  cup  flour,  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  1  small  egg  well  beaten.  Rub  this  into  the  flour  until  the 
rivels  are  small  enough  to  suit.  Stir  a  little  at  a  time  into  the  soup, 
cook  10  minutes  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Anna  Buckland,  1878. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Dice  3  potatoes,  3  stalks  celery,  1  carrot,  1  onion,  1  cup  green 
corn,  1  mango,  1  small  pepper,  a  little  cabbage  and  tomatoes.  Cook 
in  beef  broth. 

TOMATO  SOUP  No.  1. 

1  can  tomatoes.  1  teaspoon  sugar. 

1  pint  water.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

12  peppercorns.  j  teaspoon  soda. 

Bit  of  bay  leaf.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

4  cloves.  3  tablespoons  flour. 

1  onion  sliced. 

Cook  the  first  six  ingredients  twenty  minutes ;  strain,  and  add 
salt  and  soda ;  bind  and  strain. 

TOMATO  SOUP  No.  2. 

Strain  1  pint  can  of  fresh  tomatoes  into  a  stew  pan.  Add  1 
tablespoon  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Break  as  much  spa- 
ghetti as  desired  into  inch  pieces.  Boil  15  minutes,  add  \  cup 
whipped  cream  when  ready  to  serve.  Vermicelli  or  macaroni  can  be 
used. 

BEAN  SOUP. 

One  cup  soup  beans  cooked  with  a  few.  slices  of  fresh  or  pickled 
pork  until  done.  Salt  and  strain  or  not.  Good  with  drop  dumplings 
or  crackers. 

LENTIL  SOUP. 

1  cup  cooked  lentils.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

6  cups  mutton  broth.  Curry  powder  if  desired. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 

Add  the  lentils  to  the  broth,  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  add  the 
butter  and  flour  creamed  together,  season  delicately  with  salt,  pep- 
per and  curry  powder. 


10  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


PEA  SOUP. 

1  can  peas.  1  slice  onion. 

2  teaspoons  sugar.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

1  pint  cold  water.  2  tablespoons  butter.. 

1  pint  milk.  1  teaspoon  salt. 
J  teaspoon  pepper. 

Drain  peas  free  from  their  liquor,  rinse,  and  add  sugar  and  cold 
water,  and  simmer  twent}r  minutes,  rub  through  a  sieve  and  reheat. 
Scald  milk  with  onion,  remove  the  onion,  and  add  milk  to  pea  mix- 
ture, thicken  with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Peas  too  old 
to  use  as  vegetables  may  be  utilized  for  soups. 

RICE  AND  ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 

^  cup  washed  rice.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

2  quarts  soup  stock.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
1  can  of  asparagus. 

Boil  the  rice  in  the  stock  until  very  soft ;  strain  through  a  sieve 
and  add  the  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  1  can  of  asparagus  tips,  or 
the  stalks,  cut  in  inch  pieces. 

CONSOMME  OF  TAPIOCA. 

Two  teaspoons  beef  extract,  3  teaspoons  minute  tapioca,  1  quart 
water,  2  tablespoons  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  When  beef  extract 
and  water  boil,  sprinkle  in  tapioca  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Taste  before  adding  more  salt. 

PUREE  OF  SALMON. 

|  cup  canned  salmon,  free  of  oil.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  1-|  teaspoons   extract   or  juice   of 

1-J  teaspoons  salt.  onion. 

1  quart  milk.  Paprika. 

Scald  milk,  add  to  the  butter  and  flour  cooked  together ;  add 
the  salmon  mashed  fine ;  add  paprika  and  onion.  Serve  with  whip- 
ped cream  and  chopped  parsley  on  top.  Serve  with  toasted  crack- 
ers. 

PUREE  OF  CHESTNUTS. 

1  pint  chestnuts.  1  tablespoon  butter, 

1  pint  milk.  salt  and  pepper. 

1  cup  cream.  1  egg. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  11 


Shell  and  blanch  the  chestnuts.  Cook  in  enough  boiling  salted  wa- 
ter to  cover  until  very  soft.  Mash  them  in  the  water  left  in  the  pan, 
and  rub  them  through  a  fine  strainer  into  the  milk.  Heat  again,  add 
the  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  when  ready  to  serve  stir  the 
beaten  egg  in  quickly  and  serve  at  once  with  croutons.  Add  more 
milk  if  too  thick. 

TURTLE  SOUP. 

Select  a  hard  shelled  turtle,  kill  the  evening  before  it  is  to  be 
used,  dress  and  lay  in  salt  water  until  morning,  and  boil  in  as  much 
again  water  as  you  wish  soup,  to  allow  for  boiling  away.  Salt  and 
cook  until  tender,  with  a  \  pound  piece  of  lean  bacon  or  ham, 
take  out  all  of  the  meat,  set  aside  to  cool,  add  as  many  kinds  of  veg- 
etables cut  fine,  to  soup  as  desired,  add  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  car- 
rot-tops, onion  tops  and  celery  tops,  put  all  into  a  chopping  bowl  and 
chop  fine.  Mince  the  meat  fine  and  put  all  together,  boil  10  minutes, 
make  a  thickening  of  \  cup  of  sweet  cream  and  2  tablespoons  flour, 
pour  into  the  boiling  soup,  cook  a  minute  and  serve. 


BAKED  FISH. 

A  large  bass  is  best.  Salt  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  but- 
ter. Place  a  rest  in  baking  pan,  take  a  piece  of  white  cheese  cloth,  as 
long  as  the  fish  is  wide,  roll  up  half  way.  Place  on  the  rest,  and  leave 
the  roll  at  one  side  of  the  fish.  When  browned  on  one  side  unroll  cloth 
take  hold  of  other  side  and  turn  fish  over  on  the  side  which  has  been 
rolled  up.  Tuck  the  edges  neatly  around  the  fish  and  when  done  lift 
off  cloth  and  roll  on  platter.     To  serve,  garnish  with  parsley. 

SMALL  FISH  BAKED. 

Lay  in  a  baking  dish  with  chopped  onion,  mushrooms  and 
parsley,  rub  the  fish  with  salt,  pepper,  a  bit  of  nutmeg  and  dot  with 
butter.  Pour  in  enough  thin  broth  to  cover  bottom  of  dish,  add  the 
juice  of  J  lemon  and  bake  until  the  flesh  parts  easily  from  the  bone. 

FRIED  HALIBUT. 

Let  the  slices  lie  in  cold  salted  water,  to  which  has  been  added 
one  cup  of  vinegar,  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Dry  them  afterwards 
thoroughly  by  wiping  with  a  towel,  and  dusting  cracker  meal  on 
both  sides.  Lay  them  in  smoking  hot  salad  oil,  and  they  will  be  well 
cooked  and  a  pale  brown  color  in  three  or  five  minutes,  according 
to  the  thickness  of  the  slices. 

HALIBUT,  MAITRE  D'HOTEL. 

Cut  three  pounds  of  halibut  into  pieces  three  inches  square,  dip 
each  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  sifted  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  boiling 
lard  to  a  rich  brown.  Rub  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter  to  a  cream, 
add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  salt  and 
pepper,  mix  and  spread  on  the  hot  squares  of  halibut,  set  in  the 
oven  just  long  enough  to  melt,  then  serve.  Not  difficult,  and  delici- 
ous for  summer  breakfast.  * 

TURTLE  STEAKS. 

Cut  slices  about  J  inch  thick  from  what  is  known  as  the  "veal," 
or  the  thick,  fleshy  portion  of  green  turtle.  Rub  them  well  with  oil 
or  butter,  lemon  juice,  pepper  and  a  little  salt,  and  let  them  stand 
for  at  least  an  hour  before  cooking.  Broil  like  steak,  cooking  very 
thoroughly. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  13 


BAKED  SALMON,  TROUT  OR  PICKEREL. 

Clean  thoroughly,  wipe  carefully,  and  lay  in  a  dripping  pan 
with  hot  water  enough  to  prevent  scorching.  A  perforated  tin  sheet 
or  rack  fitting  loosely  in  the  pan,  or  several  muffin  rings,  may  be 
used  to  keep  the  fish  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  the  fish  may 
be  made  to  form  a  circle  by  tying  head  and  tail  together ;  bake  slow- 
ly, basting  often  with  butter  and  water.  When  done  have  ready  a 
cup  of  sweet  cream  into  which  a  few  spoons  of  hot  water  have  been 
poured,  stir  in  two  tablespoons  of  flour  and  a  little  chopped  parsley, 
and  heat  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water;  add  the  gravy  from  the  fish, 
serve  at  once. 

FRIED  FISH. 

Immerse  in  boiling  water  for  an  instant,  and  scale  with  a  fish 
scaler.  Wash  well,  salt,  and  roll  in  corn  meal  and  flour.  Fry  to  a 
rich  brown  in  plenty  of  hot  lard,  over  a  slow  fire. 

LOBSTER,  NEWBURG  STYLE, 

2  large  lobsters,  boiled.  J  pint  cream. 

■J  teaspoonful  salt.  3  egg  yolks. 

1  teaspoonful  white  pepper.  2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

2  large  truffles,  sliced.  Toast. 
1  wineglass  sherry  wine. 

Cut  the  lobster  meat  in  inch  pieces,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
the  butter,  ^and  place  over  a  hot  fire.  Add  the  salt,  pepper  and  truf- 
fles, and  cook  five  minutes.  Then  add  the  sherry  and  cook  three 
minutes  longer.  (The  sherry  wine  may  be  omitted  if  preferred.) 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  whip  them  into  the  cream.  Now  add 
this  slowly  to  the  lobster  and  cook  three  minutes.     Serve  on  toast. 

FRIED  TROUT. 

Brook  trout  are  generally  cooked  in  this  way:  Clean,  wash  and 
dry  the  fish,  roll  lightly  in  flour,  and  fry  in  butter  and  lard  mixed. 
Let  the  fat  be  hot ;  fry  quickly  to  a  delicate  brown  and  take  up  the 
instant  they  are  done.  Serve  in  a  hot  dish.  Use  no  seasoning  except 
salt. 

BLACK  BASS,  WITH  SAUCE. 

Clean  a  good-sized  black  bass,  cut  off  the  tail,  remove  the  skin  from 
both  sides,  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  it ;  melt  in  a  pan  or  deep 


14  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


pie-plate  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  add  well-chopped  on- 
ions, put  the  bass  into  it,  cover  with  a  piece  of  well  buttered  white 
paper,  and  bake  for  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven;  when  done 
take  the  bass  up  on  a  platter,  taking  care  not  to  break  it,  and  keep 
it  covered  with  the  paper;  mix  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  put  it  into  the  pan  in  which  the  bass 
has  been  cooked,  add  one-half  pint  of  chicken  or  veal  broth,  put 
over  a  brisk  fire,  and  boil  for  five  minutes,  stirring  well ;  add  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice  and  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  pour 
the  sauce  over  the  bass,  season  to  taste,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

FRIED  EELS. 

After  cleansing  the  eels  well,  cut  them  in  pieces  two  inches  long ; 
wash  them  and  wipe  them  dry ;  roll  them  in  wheat  flour  or  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry  as  directed  for  other  fish,  in  hot  lard  or  beef  drip- 
pings, salted.  They  should  be  browned  all  over  and  thoroughly  done. 
Eels  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner  and  broiled. 

COD  FISH  A  LA  MODE. 

Freshen  1  cup  of  minced  cod-fish  and  drain  well,  or  use  the 
desicated  cod,  blended  with  2  cups  of  mashed  potatoes,  to  one  pint 
of  cream  or  milk,  add  2  well  beaten  eggs,  and  one-half  cup  melted 
butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  all  lightly  together,  bake  in  a 
casserole,  or  baking  dish  for  25  minutes.     Serve  at  once. 

FISH  PREMIER,  WITH  PREMIER  SAUCE. 

4  pounds  fish.  2  dozen  large  oysters. 

^  cup  melted  butter.  Sliced  lemon. 

Salt  and  pepper.  Water  cress. 
1  cup  crumbs. 

Remove  the  head  and  tail  of  the  lish.  Skin  and  bone  it,  leav- 
ing two  oblong  pieces.  Lay  one  of  the  pieces  on  a  greased  baking 
sheet  in  the  baking  pan,  cover  with  half  of  the  oysters.  Sprinkle 
thickly  with  crumbs  and  pour  over  them  one-half  of  your  melted 
butter.  Then  cover  it  with  the  other  half  of  the  fish,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Place  the  remaining  oysters  on  top  of  the  fish, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  the  remaining  crumbs  on  the 
oysters  and  pour  the  rest  of  the  butter  over  the  crumbs.  Put  into  a 
moderate  oven  and  brown.  When  done  slip  it  carefully  onto  a  hot 
platter,  garnish  with  watercress  and  sliced  lemon,  and  serve  with 
Premier  sauce. 


s 

FISH  AND  MEAT 
SAUCES 

1 

PREMIER  SAUCE. 


\  cup  of  butter. 
Yolk  of  1  egg. 
Juice  of  \  lemon. 


J  teaspoonful  salt. 
J  cup  boiling  water. 

A  pinch  of  white  pepper. 


Cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  six  minutes  and  serve  in  a  sauceboat. 

DRAWN-BUTTER  SAUCE. 

One-half  cup  butter,  rubbed  well  with  2  tablespoonfuis  flour ;  put 
into  a  sauce  pan  with  about  1  pint  boiling  stock,  stirring  constantly 
until  well  melted.  Throw  in  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  and  ser\Te  at 
once. 

BEACHAMEL  SAUCE. 

Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  without  browning,  add  1  teaspoon 
of  flour,  and  mix  until  smooth ;  add  one-half  cup  of  milk  or  cream, 
one-half  cup  of  chicken  or  veal  stock  and  stir  continually  until  it 
thickens ;  just  before  taking  from  the  fire  add  the  yolk  of  1  egg, 
mix  well,  season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt. 

WHITE  SAUCE. 

In  a  saucepan  melt  2  tablespoonfuis  of  butter.  Rub  into  the 
butter  thoroughly  2  tablespoonfuis  of  flour.  Add  slowly  1  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  season  with  salt  and  white  pepper ;  let  the  whole  cook 
until  it  thickens ;  stir  constantly ;  do  not  scorch.  Served  on  meats 
and  vegetables. 

CUCUMBER  SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

Pare  and  grate  on  a  sieve  four  large,  fresh  cucumbers.  When 
the  pulp  is  thoroughly  drained  turn  it  in  a  bowl;  add  1  teaspoon  of 
pepper,  1  medium-sized  onion,  grated,  1  level  teaspoon  of  salt  and 
two  teaspoons  of  vinegar.  Mix  and  stir  in  just  at  serving  time  6 
teaspoons  of  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth. 

ANCHOVY  SAUCE. 

Bone  G  anchovies,  and  pound  them  to  a  paste,  with  1  hard  boiled 
egg  yolk  and  1  ounce  of  butter,  add  salt  and  paprika  to  taste,  melt 
with  one-half  cup  aspic  jelly,  or  stock,  cool  and  add  one-half  cup  of 
whipped  cream. 


16 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


MINT  SAUCE. 

One-half  pint  of  mild  vinegar,  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  flavor 
with  extract  of  mint ;  let  all  boil  together.  Use  when  cold.  Fine  for 
mutton. 

MINT  JELLY. 


i  teaspoon  salt. 

Flavor  with  mint  extract. 
i  an  envelope  of  powdered  gela- 
tine. 


1J  cups  water. 
■J  cup  sharp  vinegar. 
i  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
^  cup  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  for  15  minutes  in  an  extra  half  cup  of  cold  water ; 
heat  the  above  ingredients  to  boiling  point.  Add  gelatine,  stir  until 
dissolved.  Add  mint  flavoring,  and  color  a  dainty  green  with  any 
good  fruit  coloring.  Place  in  ice-chest  until  set.  Serve  in  any  de- 
sired form. 

OYSTER  COCKTAILS. 

Select  large  oysters,  place  three  or  four  in  cocktail  glasses  and 
pour  over  the  following  dressing :  8  tablespoons  catsup,  2  table- 
spoons prepared  horseradish,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

Rub  one-half  cup  butter  into  a  cream,  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
one  at  a  time  and  beat  well.  Stir  in  the  juice  of  -J  a  lemon,  pinch  of 
salt  and  a  hint  of  cayenne  pepper.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  -J  cup 
boiling  water.  It  is  best  to  cook  this  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  all 
the  time. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

1  quart  of  tomatoes,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  2  of  flour,  2  of 
cloves,  and  a  small  slice  of  onion;  cook  tomato,  onion  and  cloves  10 
minutes;  heat  the  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan,  and  add  the  flour; 
when  smooth  and  brown  stir  in  the  tomatoes  and  cook;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  strain.     Nice  for  fish,  pot  roast,  or  macaroni. 

ASPIC  JELLY. 

One  slice  of  onion,  £  teaspoon  of  celery  seed,  1  bay  leaf,  1  clove, 
garlic,  1  sprig  of  parsley,  1-|  pints  of  stock  or  cold  water;  boil,  then 
add  |  of  a  teaspoon  of  beef  extract,  ^  box  gelatine  that  has  been 
soaked  in  1  cup  cold  water  for  fifteen  minutes;  strain  and  pour  in 
mold.     Omit  beef  extract  if  stock  is  used. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


17 


EGG  SAUCE. 

To  white  sauce  add  the  yolks  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs  mixed  to 
a  morter  with  1  tablespoonful  of  sweet  cream. 

HORSERADISH  SAUCE. 

2  tablespoonfuls  grated  horseradish,  2  tablespoons  cider  vine- 
gar, 1  egg  yolk,  blended  with  \  cup  sweet  cream,  1  tablespoonful  of 
corn  starch,  \  cup  water,  1  tablespoon  butter,  salt  to  taste.  Boil 
water,  vinegar,  and  horseradish  together.  Strain,  add  other  ingre- 
dients, and  finish  cooking. 

Mrs.  Will  Sutton. 


I 

HOME  CURED 
MEATS 

1 

TO  SUGAR  CURE  PORK. 

To  1000  pounds  pork  take :  3  pounds  granulated  sugar. 

20  quarts  barrel  salt.  1  pound  salt  peter. 

1  pound  pure  black  pepper.  2  tablespoonfuls   ground   cloves. 

The  meat  should  stand  over  night  in  a  cool  place  (above  the 
freezing  point).  Pour  enough  boiling  water  over  the  mixture  to 
make  a  paste.  Mix  thoroughly  and  rub  the  shank  end  full.  Rub 
the  mixture  on  both  sides  well  and  lay  on  plates  in  a  cool  room 
(above  freezing  point)  for  one  week.  When  the  salt  is  all  absorbed 
the  joints  can  be  hung  up  in  a  cold,  dry  place ;  not  close  enough  to 
touch  each  other,  and  can  be  smoked  within  4  weeks  from  killing.  A 
piano  box  with  wardrobe  hooks  screwed  into  the  top  makes  a  nice 
smoke  house.  Use  cobs  and  fresh  sawdust  for  smoking.  If  meat  is 
smoked  too  long  it  will  be  hard  and  dry. 

John  T.  Cloud,  Montpelier,  Ind.,  ex-butcher. 

PICKLED  PORK. 

Stand  fresh  side  meat  up  edge-ways,  not  too  close  together,  in  a 
new  4-gallon  jar.  Make  a  brine  of  barrel  salt  (and  1  tablespoonful 
of  salt  peter),  strong  enough  to  bounce  an  egg.  Skim  and  cool.  Tie 
a  cheese  cloth  over  top  and  let  stand  one  week.  Remove  brine  and  add 
fresh  brine,  made  the  same  way.  If  the  first  brine  is  left  on,  it  will 
make  it  strong,  as  there  is  quite  a  lot  of  blood  and  many  impurities 
drawn  from  the  meat. 

HOT  SALTED  PORK. 

Let  the  meat  stand  over  night,  where  it  will  keep  cool  but  not 
freeze.  Fill  a  large  iron  kettle  J  full  of  barrel  salt,  hang  over  a  bed 
of  coals,  stir  constantly  until  it  is  very  hot.  Make  a  hole  in  center 
of  salt,  leaving  two  or  three  inches  deep  in  bottom  of  kettle.  Put 
joint  in,  rind  side  up  and  cover  top  well  with  hot  salt.  Leave  in  5 
minutes  for  very  small  joints.  8  minutes  for  medium.  10  to  12  min- 
utes for  large  ones.  Put  on  a  clean  pair  of  duck  mittens.  Take  out 
joint,  leaving  on  what  little  salt  that  sticks  fast.  Lay  on  a  clean  oak 
minutes  for  very  small  joints,  8  minutes  for  medium,  10  to  12  min- 
sugar,  \  cup  ground  pepper,  and  1  tablespoonful  cloves.  Rub  well, 
and  use  1  tablespoonful  to  each  joint.  Can  be  smoked  in  4  or  5  days. 
This  will  keep  through  the  hottest  weather. 

Henry  McClellan. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  19 


CORNED  BEEF. 

100  pounds  of  meat,  4  pounds  of  sugar, 

4  quarts  of  coarse  salt,  4  ounces  of  saltpeter,  pulverized. 

Mix  the  sugar,  salt  and  saltpeter  well,  and  spread  it  between  the 
layers  of  meat. 

IMPROVED  SAUSAGE. 

For  20  pounds  of  fresh  pork,  tenderloins,  and  trimmings  from 
hams  and  shoulders,  the  folloAving  ingredients  will  be  found  just 
right. 

f  cup  coarse  salt;  1  tablespoon  pepper ; 

3  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage ;  1  teaspoon  granulated  sugar ; 

1  level  teaspoon  ginger;  1  heaping  teaspoonful  ground 
1  teaspoon  celery  salt.  cloves; 

Mix  all  ingredients  well  together.  Sprinkle  over  meat  well  be- 
fore grinding,  this  saves  much  labor  after  grinding.  This  needs  no 
testing  before  stuffing. 

The  cloves  add  much  to  the  flavor  and  prevent  indigestion.  Use 
strips  of  old  muslin  10  by  18  inches  for  bags.  After  the  sausage  is 
cold  and  solid  coat  well  with  melted  parowax  to  exclude  the  air, 
which  prevents  it  from  getting  strong. 

HEAD  CHEESE. 

Use  the  upper  part  of  the  head,  the  shanks,  with  lower  part  of 
feet  removed,  the  tongue,  heart,  melt,  half  of  the  liver,  and  the  back- 
bone, after  the  fat  has  been  removed.  Cook  all  together  in  salt  water 
until  it  will  fall  from  the  bones.  Let  broth  boil  down  to  one-half 
gallon.  Drain  off  broth  and  set  aside.  Cool  the  meat  and  pick  from 
the  bones.  Remove  all  soft  fat  leaving  a  little  of  the  gristle  from  the 
feet.  Grind  all  together  through  coarse  grinder.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  1  teaspoonful  celery  salt,  1  teaspoonful  sage,  and  a  dust  of 
cloves.  Mix  all  well.  Remove  all  fat  from  broth  and  pour  1  quart 
boiling  broth  over  the  ground  meat.  Heat  all  to  the  boiling  point. 
Mould  in  large  size  dried  beef  glasses. 

This  cheese  is  nice  for  sandwiches  or  to  serve  in  the  place  of  cold 
meats,  and  can  hardly  be  told  from  pressed  chicken. 

PICKLED  PIGS  FEET. 

Singe  the  feet  well.  Pour  over  them  boiling  hot  water  with  1 
tablespoonful  soda  dissolved  in  it.    Let  stand  until  cool.    Scrape  well 


20  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


with  sharp  knife.  Rinse  and  put  on  to  cook  in  boiling  salt  water. 
Cook  until  very  tender,  leaving  a  quart  or  more  of  broth  in  the  ket- 
tle. Drain  off  broth  and  let  it  get  cold.  Remove  fat  from  top  and  re- 
heat. Add  enough  strong  vinegar  to  make  it  tart,  a  few  red  peppers, 
celery  seed,  and  ^  teaspoonful  of  Coolman  mustard.  Pour  over  the 
feet  and  let  stand  till  seasoned  well  through. 

PRESSED  PIGS  FEET. 

Prepare  and  cook  same  as  for  pickled  pig  feet.  Cook  until  the 
meat  falls  from  the  bones.  Prepare  the  broth  same  as  tthe  above 
mentioned  recipe.  Slice  the  meat  and  lay  in  a  crock.  Pour  on  the 
prepared  broth  while  boiling  hot.  When  cold  slice  and  garnish  with 
parsley. 

ROAST  SPARE  RIBS. 

Trim  off  the  rough  ends,  crack  the  ribs  across  the  center  with  a 
hatchet,  rub  with  salt  and  pepper,  fold  and  stuff  with  bread  dressing 
seasoned  with  onion  and  sage,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  lay  on  a  wire 
rest  in  a  baking  pan,  bake  in  a  tireless  cooker  until  brown  or  about 
2\  hours.     Serve  with  cranberry  or  apple  sauce. 

PORK  TENDERLOINS. 

When  cutting  up  the  hog,  leave  the  tender  loins  in.  Cut  through 
the  ribs  on  each  side  near  the  loin,  and  across  at  each  end,  rub  with 
salt,  pepper  and  sage,  roast  the  same  as  ribs,  or  cut  in  thin  slices  and 
broil  or  fry,  serve  with  apple  sauce. 

FRIED  SWEET-BREADS. 

Soak  sweet-breads  in  salt  water  1  hour,  to  draw  out  the  blood, 
trim  off  all  fat,  cut  in  thin  slices,  dip  them  into  beaten  eggs  and  fine 
cracker  crumbs,  fry  slowly  in  butter  and  lard  until  well  browned. 
Serve  with  mushroom  sauce  or  green  peas. 

FRIED  PICKLED  PORK. 

Use  the  thick  upper  part  of  the  side,  slice  very  thin,  soak  out 
part  of  the  salt,  in  hike  warm  water,  dredge  well  with  flour  and  fry 
in  hot  lard  until  a  light  brown.    This  can  hardly  be  told  from  fish. 


i 

MISCELLANEOUS 
MEATS 

1 

ROAST  BEEF. 

Select  a  nice  thick  roast.  Sear  each  side  in  a  hissing  hot  pan, 
rub  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour.  Place  in  roaster. 
Pour  enough  boiling  water  in  side  of  roaster  to  keep  from  burning. 
Do  not  allow  to  get  dry  until  it  is  done,  then  let  brown  on  both 
sides.  Garnish  with  parsley  or  carrot  tops  or  celery  sprigs.  Serve 
with  brown  gravy. 

Pork  and  veal  can  be  roasted  the  same  as  beef. 

MUTTON  POT  ROAST. 

Select  a  nice  thick  piece  of  mutton.  Rub  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Place  in  dutch  oven  that  has  a  little  melted  butter  in  it.  Place  a 
thick  slice  of  onion  on  top.  Pour  over  it  enough  boiling  water  to 
keep  from  burning,  cover  tightly,  and  cook  slowly  until  done.  Allow 
to  brown  on  both  sides.    Serve  with  brown  gravy. 

Mrs.  Laura  B.  Wall. 

BOILED  HAM. 

Trim  and  rind  a  small  ham.  Cut  off  fat  end  and  shank.  Place 
in  kettle  or  roaster  on  wire  or  perforated  rest,  high  enough  to  keep 
the  fat  from  boiling  in  to  the  ham.  Do  not  cook  long  enough  to  fall 
to  pieces  or  allow  to  boil  dry.  When  cold  it  can  either  be  minced  or 
sliced,  and  will  keep  several  days.  The  broth  is  fine  to  boil  with  po- 
tatoes, beans  or  other  vegetables. 

ROAST  HAM. 

Can  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  boiled  ham,  and  is  best 
roasted  in  a  tireless  cooker  as  it  retains  its  weight  and  flavor  and  re- 
quires very  little  water.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  celery  seed  and  a  few 
slices  of  onion. 

BEEF  POT  ROAST. 

5  pounds  beef ;  1  carrot,  chopped  fine ; 
\  pound  suet;                                        1  tablespoonful  flour; 

6  cloves  ;  1  pint  boiling  water ; 
2  bayleaves ;                                           Salt  and  pepper. 

2  slices  onion; 

Sear  in  hissing  hot  pan.  Place  in  kettle  with  other  ingredients. 
Roast  in  tireless  cooker  or  on  back  of  the  range. 


22  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


MOTHER'S  BEEF  STEAK. 

Pound  a  nice  round  steak  full  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  put  equal 
parts  of  butter  and  lard  into  a  hot  frying  pan.  Put  steak  in  pan. 
Drop  in  a  few  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  between  the  slices.  Fry  to  a  nice 
brown  on  both  sides.  Pour  \  cup  cream  and  1  cup. hot  water  over 
the  steak,  stir  well  and  take  up  on  platter  and  pour  gravy  over  top. — 

Hannah  Ware. 

BREADED  VEAL. 

1  pound  of  veal  well  dipped  in  egg ;  roll  in  fine  cracker  crumbs ; 
salt  and  fry  in  plenty  of  hot  butter  and  lard.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

BREADED  CHOPS. 

Have  your  butcher  cut  the  chops  about  an  inch  in  thickness. 
Beat  one  egg.  After  freeing  the  chops  from  any  adhering  bits  of  fat 
or  bone,  dip  into  the  egg  and  then  into  finely  rolled  bread  crumbs. 
Bread-crumbs  are  preferable  to  cracker  crumbs,  especially  if  the 
bread  is  made  from  whole  wheat.  The  slices  should  be  dried  slowly  in 
the  oven  before  rolling.  When  breaded,  put  the  chops  carefully  into 
a  frying-pan  in  which  the  fat  is  sufficiently  hot  to  give  off  a  blue 
smoke.  Brown  quickly  on  one  side,  then  on  the  other,  cover  and  put 
the  frying  pan  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  where  the  chops  may 
cook  through  slowly. 

VENISON  CHOPS. 

Wipe  the  chops  and  trim  off  the  superfluous  fat.  When  every- 
thing else  is  ready  dip  them  in  hot  melted  butter  and  broil  quickly, 
or  cook  them  in  a  pan  in  hot  butter.  They  are  usually  preferred  rare. 
Serve  with  melted  currant  jelly,  adding  it  to  the  butter  in  the  pan. 
Have  all  the  dishes  hot  and  serve  at  once. 

BROILED  STEAK. 

Take  a  nice  thick  round,  or  any  other  preferred  steak,  grease 
with  a  little  melted  butter  or  olive  oil,  which  makes  it  broil  faster 
and  makes  it  more  crisp.  Put  into  wire  broiler,  hold  over  a  hot  blaze 
or  coals.     Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.     Serve  very  hot. 

SOUFFLE  OF  MUSHROOMS. 

Make  a  thick  white  sauce  with  J  cup  each  of  butter  and  flour  and 
J  cup  each  of  thin  cream  and  the  liquor  drained  from  a  can  of  mush- 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  23 


rooms.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice, 
and  add  the  mushrooms  cut  in  thin  slices.  Separate  3  eggs,  beat  the 
yolks  until  thick  and  add  to  the  mushrooms.  Beat  the  whites  quite 
stiff  and  fold  in  gently.  Pour  into  a  buttered  dish,  bake  slowly  about 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  firm,  and  serve  at  once. 

TO  FRY  BACON. 

Bacon  should  be  fried  in  an  iron  skillet,  and  turned  constantly 
while  frying  to  keep  the  edges  from  curling  and  burning.  Do  not 
fry  too  crisp.    Drain  on  wire  rack  before  serving. 

FRIED  HAM. 

Ham  should  be  fried  in  an  iron  skillet,  well  covered.  Brown  each 
side  well  before  turning. 

BEEF  LOAF  No.  1. 

3  pounds  coarse  ground  round         2  well  beaten  eggs ; 

steak;  .         ^  cup  cracker  crumbs; 

1  pound  coarse  ground  pork  steak ;   Pepper  and  salt. 

1  cup  rich  milk; 

Form  in  loaf  and  bake  in  a  well  buttered  6x10  inch  pan.  Pour 
over  J  cup  boiling  water  and  dredge  with  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  about 
one  hour  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  T.  M.  Stevenson. 

BEEF  LOAF,  No.  2. 

2  pounds  of  course  ground  round  \  cup  cracker  crumbs ; 

steak ;  \  cup  rich  milk ; 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  2  teaspoonfuls  salt  and  pepper  to 

2  eggs,  well  beaten ;  taste. 

1  cup  finely  chopped  celery; 

Mix  and  bake  in  the  usual  way. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

15  cents'  worth  veal;  1  egg  well  beaten; 

10  cents'   worth  steak;  \  cup  cracker  crumbs; 

10  cents'  worth  lean  pork;  1  cup  rich  milk. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste.  Form  into  a  loaf  and  bake  same 
as  beef  loaf. 

Mrs.  Will  G.  Sutton.  . 


24  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


LIVER  LOAF. 

Take  2  pounds  fresh  beef  liver,  slice  and  pour  boiling  water 
over  it.  Salt  and  let  stand  until  cool,  grind  coarse,  add  1  pound 
coarse  ground  pork  steak,  -J  cup  milk,  \  cup  cracker  crumbs,  1  egg,  \ 
cup  chopped  celery,  and  a  little  onion  if  desired.  Pepper  and  salt. 
Bake  as  beef  loaf. 

Myrtle  Ware. 

CALIFORNIA  LOAF. 

3  pounds  round  steak ;  1  cup  cooked  rice ; 

1  pound  round  pork  steak;  1  level  tablespoonful  salt; 
\  teaspoonful  pepper;  1  teaspoonful  celery  salt. 

2  eggs ; 

The  rice  should  be  cooked  in  boiling  salt  water  until  tender. 
Cool.  Beat  eggs  well.  Add  2  tablespoonfuls  cream  to  eggs  and  rice. 
Grind  meat  rather  coarse.  Mix  all  together.  Form  in  long  round 
loaf,  which  will  be  a  little  larger  than  a  round  loaf  of  cream  bread. 
Put  into  a  pan  6  inches  wide  and  11  inches  long.  Make  a  paste  of 
melted  butter  and  flour,  spread  on  top.  Place  two  slices  of  onion  on 
each  side.  Keep  one  inch  of  water  in  pan.  Bake  \\  hours,  basting 
occasionally.  When  done  take  out  loaf  and  make  1  pint  water  gravy 
in  pan.     This  will  serve  eighteen  people. 

Mrs.  Emil  Bouillet. 

SALMON  LOAF  WITH  GREEN  PEAS. 

1  can  salmon ;  3  well  beaten  eggs ; 

J  cup  cracker  crumbs  soaked  in         2  tablespoonfuls  soft  butter ; 
\  cup  milk ;  Pepper  and  salt. 

Mix  all  together  and  pour  into  buttered  mold.    Bake  45  minutes. 

GREEN  PEA  SAUCE  FOR  SALMON  LOAF. 

\  cup  milk  or  cream, ;  \  teaspoon  salt ; 

1  tablespoon  butter ;  \  teaspoon  white  pepper ; 

1  tablespoon  flour ;  Dash  of  cayenne ; 

f  teaspoon  sugar;  Few  drops  onion  juice. 

1  can  peas ; 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  first  eight  ingredients,  add  the  peas,  which 
have  been  drained  and  rinsed. 

Salmon  is  nice  baked  in  border  mold.  Serve  with  green  pea 
sauce  in  center  of  mold.     Garnish  with  parsley. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  25 

STEAMED  SALMON  LOAF. 

1  can  salmon  shredded;  J  teaspoon  common  salt; 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  3  well  beaten  eggs ; 

^  cup  milk;  \  teaspoon  celery  salt  and  little 
Lump  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut ;  pepper. 

Mix  as  in  the  above  salmon  loaf  recipe.  Steam  in  plain  or 
border  mold.     Serve  with  the  following  sauce : 

1  cup  milk ;  1  tablespoon  corn  starch. 

1  egg  yolk ;  Juice  from  the  can  of  salmon. 

1  tablespoon  butter; 

Boil  all  together  in  double  boiler. 

ESCALLOPED  SALMON. 

1  can  of  salmon ;  \  teaspoon  salt ; 

1   rounding  tablespoonful  each  of  2  teaspoons  of  lemon  juice ; 

butter  and  flour ;  2  tablespoons  melted  butter ; 

\  cup  of  dried  bread  crumbs ;  Pepper  to  taste. 

1^  cups  of  milk; 

Turn  the  salmon  into  a  dish  and  remove  all  skin  and  bone,  break- 
ing as  little  as  possible.  Make  a  cream  sauce  of  the  milk,  butter, 
flour,  salt  and  pepper;  add  the  lemon  juice  to  the  salmon.  Arrange 
\  of  the  salmon  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkle  very  lightly  with 
salt  and  baste  over  it  \  of  the  cream  sauce ;  arrange  balance  of  sal- 
mon and  cover  with  remaining  sauce.  Add  the  bread  crumbs  alter- 
nately with  the  salmon  and  other  ingredients. 

SALMON  CHOWDER. 

1  can  salmon ;  1  desert-spoon  of  salt ; 

1-J  cups  cooked  macaroni ;  4  small  pieces  bacon ; 

1  cup  chopped  parsley ;  2  chopped  onions. 
4  potatoes  diced; 

Fry  bacon  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Put  salmon  into  the  bacon 
grease.  Arrange  a  layer  of  the  other  ingredients,  including  the 
chopped  bacon,  then  another  layer  of  salmon  and  cover  well  with 
water.  Boil  slowly  for  about  thirty  minutes.  Serve  with  a  sauce, 
made  as  follows : 

Pour  the  juice  from  the  can  of  salmon  into  the  kettle,  after  the 
chowder  is  lifted.  Add  1  cup  of  water  and  thicken  as  any  cream 
gravy.      Remove    from    fire,    stir    in    1    egg.      Serve    immediately. — 

Mvrtle  AYare. 


26  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


BEEF  OR  LIVER  SMOTHERED  IN  ONIONS. 

Select  a  sirloin  steak  1  inch  thick.  Pound  well  and  dredge  in 
flour.  Put  in  iron  spider  with  butter  and  lard  mixed.  Salt  and  pep- 
per; fry  first  side  quickly.  Turn  and  cover  J  inch  thick  with  finely 
sliced  onions.  Sprinkle  1  tablespoonful  flour  around  edges.  Cover 
tightly  and  fry  slowly  until  done.  Pour  1  liberal  cup  thin  cream  or 
rich  milk  around  edges.  Shake  well  until  flour  is  well  cooked,  and 
if  too  thick,  add  a  little  boiling  water.  Pour  onto  platter  and  serve 
immediately. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN. 

Disjoint  the  fowl,  season,  roll  in  flour,  and  brown  lightly  in  a 
saucepan.  Chop  three  large  tomatoes,  one  large  onion,  one  small 
pepper,  three  stalks  of  celery,  one  small  carrot,  and  two  bay  leaves, 
and  mix  all  together.  Put  a  layer  of  chicken  in  the  kettle,  then  one 
of  the  vegetable  mixture,  and  continue  the  layers  until  all  the  ingre- 
dients have  been  used;  cover  with  water  and  let  simmer  from  one 
and  a  half  to  two  hours.  Remove  the  chicken  to  a  platter  and  sur- 
round with  baking  powder  biscuits.  Strain  the  gravy,  return  to  the 
stove,  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  smooth  in  a  little 
Water,  and  pour  over  the  meat. 

CHILI  CON  CARNI. 

1  pound  steak;  1  pint  cold  water; 

1  can  kidney  beans ;  1  cup  chopped  onions ; 

1  cup  canned  tomatoes ;  3  tablespoonfuls  horseradish. 

2  small  unbroken  red  peppers; 

Grind  steak  rather  coarse.  Drop  into  cold  water.  Boil  and 
skim.  Cook  \  hour,  add  other  ingredients  and  cook  15  minutes  lon- 
ger. 

Myrtle  Ware. 

CORN  CHOWDER. 

1  quart  raw  sweet  corn ;  2  tablespoons  flour ; 

1  pint  potato  diced;  1  pint  milk; 

1  teaspoon  salt ;  1  red  mango  sliced ; 

1  saltspoon  pepper ;  2  hard  boiled  eggs. 
J  cup  butter; 

Cut  each  row  of  kernels,  and  scrape  the  raw  corn  from  the  cob. 
Boil  the  cobs  twenty  minutes  in  water  to  cover.    Pare  and  cut  the  po- 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  27 


tatoes  into  small  dice.  Pour  boiling  water  over  them,  drain  and  let 
them  stand  while  the  corncobs  are  boiling.  Remove  the  cobs,  add 
the  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper.  When  the  potatoes  are  nearly  done, 
add  the  corn  and  milk  and  cook  20  minutes.  Cook  the  flour  in  the 
hot  butter,  add  one  cup  of  the  corn  liquor,  and  when  thick  stir  it 
into  the  chowder.  Add  the  eggs,  whites  chopped  fine,  and  yolk  rub- 
bed through  a  strainer. 

CHICKEN  CURRY. 

Boil  a  young  chicken  with  2  small  onions,  and  1  sweet  pepper. 
Drain  and  fry  in  butter.  When  done  add  1  tablespoonful  of  flour 
and  1  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder  to  the  butter,  in  which  the 
chicken  Avas  fried.  Pour  1  pint  broth  from  chicken  over  the  flour 
and  curry  powder.  Stir  well  until  poiling  point  is  reached.  Pour 
this  sauce  over  the  chicken  and  simmer  for  15  minutes.  Serve  with 
plain  boiled  rice. 

VEAL  AND  HAM  PIE. 

Trim  the  veal  and  ham,  cut  into  pieces,  and  season  with  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste;  next  chop  a  handful  of  mushrooms  and  some  pars- 
ley very  fine,  and  put  them  into  a  small  stew-pan,  with  J  cup  butter, 
J  cup  minced  onion,  and  \  cup  of  water ;  simmer  together  until  water 
is  almost  evaporated.  Add  1  cup  of  stock  to  the  above  ingredients. 
Pine  a  pan  with  rich  biscuit  dough,  pour  in  mixture.  Slice  the  yolks 
of  hard  boiled  eggs  over  top  before  putting  on  top  crust.  Bake  until 
well  done. 

CALF'S  BRAINS  BREADED. 

Separate  the  two  lobes  of  the  brain  with  a  knife,  soak  them  in 
cold  water  with  a  little  salt  for  one  hour ;  then  pour  away  water  and 
cover  with  hot  water,  clean  and  skin  them;  then  dip  in  egg  and  milk, 
roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  slowly  in  deep  hot  fat.  Serve  with  to- 
mato sauce. 

WILD  DUCKS. 

As  wild  ducks  are  liable  to  have  a  fishy  flavor,  they  should  be 
parboiled  in  salt  water  with  a  carrot  or  onion  placed  inside,  which  is 
removed  before  roasting.  Dredge  with  butter  and  flour,  and  roast 
the  same  as  tame  duck. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  KING. 

Cook  a  three  or  four  pound  chicken  until  tender,  cool  and  cut 


28  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


into  cubes;  cook  about  1  cup  diced  carrots,  \  cup  celery  chopped,  2 
hot  green  peppers  or  mangoes  chopped  (if  mangoes  are  used  add  a 
dash  of  cayenne,  cook  in  the  broth  left  from  chicken  until  tender, 
thicken  with  1  cup  cream  and  2  tablespoons  flour.  Let  boil,  add 
chicken,  and  cook  again.  Serve  on  triangles  of  buttered  toast. 
One-third  teaspoonful  of  paprika  is  preferable  to  cayenne. 

Mrs.  Claude  Black. 

CREAMED  SALMON. 

Drain  the  juice  from  1  can  of  salmon  into  a  sauce  pan,  add  1 
cup  boiling  water,  \  cup  butter,  a  little  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  and 
the  yolk  of  1  egg  beaten  into  J  cup  of  thick  cream.  Cook  well.  Add 
shredded  salmon  and  serve  on  salted  wafers. 

CREAM  OF  DRIED  BEEF. 

Shred  1  can  of  dried  beef,  put  into  1  cup  of  water  with  a  lump 
of  butter  size  of  hulled  walnut.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  flour  blended 
with  \  cup  of  cream.  Let  boil  5  minutes  before  adding  the  thicken- 
ing. 

CREAMED  CODFISH. 

Soak  \  pound  whole  codfish  over  night  •  in  the  morning  pick  to 
pieces,  pour  boiling  water  over  it  and  let  stand  long  enough  to  fresh- 
en to  suit  taste.  Cook  in  enough  water  to  cover  until  done.  Add  1 
tablespoon  butter.  Make  a  thickening  of  1  tablespoon  flour  and  \ 
cup  cream.  Pour  in  and  stir  until  well  cooked.  Serve  on  toast  or 
plain. 

BROILED  FLANK  STEAK. 

Select  a  20  cent  flank  steak.  Have  your  butcher  hack  it  well. 
Rub  it  on  both  sides  with  melted  butter ;  put  in  a  wire  broiler,  hold 
over  a  gas  flame  or  hot  coals.  Turn  every  10  seconds,  until  done. 
Butter,  pepper  and  salt.    Serve  with  or  without  hot  mushroom  sauce. 

SWISS  ROAST. 

Take  a  thick,  round  steak  from  two  to  two  and  one-half  inches 
in  thickness,  and  pound  into  it  as  much  flour  as  it  will  take,  using 
the  edges  of  a  plate  for  that  purpose.  When  the  flour  has  been 
pounded  into  both  sides,  put  the  meat  into  a  hot  skillet  with  some  of 
the  fat  cut  from  the  meat,  and  brown  it  on  both  sides ;  remove  to  a 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  29 


sauce  pan,  heat  \  can  of  tomatoes,  1  large  onion  cut  fine,  1  sweet  pep- 
per, if  desired,  pour  over  the  meat,  cover  tightly,  and  cook  slowly 
two  or  three  hours.  Just  before  the  meat  is  done,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.    Delicious  when  served  hot ;  also  very  nice  when  cold. 

Aimee  Ware. 

TIMBALE  OF  MEAT. 

1^  pints  of  cold  meat  chopped  fine ;  \  teaspoon  pepper ; 

1  teaspoon  salt ;  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley ; 

i  teaspoon  onion  juice ";  2  eggs ; 

1  cup  stock  or  milk ;  \  cup  bread  crumbs. 

2  tablespoons  butter ; 

Mix  the  seasonings  with  the  meat.  Heat  the  butter  in  a  sauce 
pan  without  browning,  add  the  crumbs  and  stir  one  minute,  then  add 
stock  and  cook  until  the  sauce  thickens ;  add  this  to  the  meat,  mix 
well,  pack  in  a  well  buttered  mould  lined  with  a  buttered  paper; 
place  this  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  cook  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven, 
turn  on  a  warm  platter  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce.  Nice  baked  in 
a  border  mould,  fill  center  with  peas. 

FROG  LEGS. 

The  green  marsh  frogs  furnish  the  best  hams,  as  they  are  more 
tender  and  have  less  of  the  strong  muddy  flavor.  They  are  generally 
liked  best  fried.  Pare  off  the  feet  and  truss  them  by  inserting  the 
stump  along  the  shin  of  the  other  leg.  Put  them  with  salt,  pepper  and 
lemon  juice  to  steep  for  an  hour,  then  drain  and  roll  in  flour,  then 
iu  beaten  egg  and  in  fine  bread  crumbs.  Fry  to  a  light  brown  in 
hot  fat.    Garnish  with  parsley. 

BEEF-STEAK  HASH. 

10  cents'  worth  shoulder  steak;         J  cup  chopped  celery; 

3  cups  raw  diced  potatoes;  \  cup  chopped  onions; 
Little  sage;  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Grind  steak  coarse.  Mix  all  together.  Pour  over  boiling  water 
to  cover.  When  partly  done  add  heaping  tablespoon  butter  and 
cook  until  nearly  dry. 

Mrs.  Emil  Bouillet. 

BEEF  HASH. 

Chop  or  grind  coarse,  cold  roast  or  boiled  beef.    Use  enough  cold 


30  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


stock  to  moisten,  or  butter  and  water  will  do.  Use  cold  chopped  po- 
tatoes, a  little  sage,  onion,  pepper,  and  celery  or,  celery  salt.  Heat 
all  together,  and  serve  hot,  with  toast. 

LIVER  HASH. 

Chop  cold  boiled  beef  liver,  and  cold  boiled  potatoes  together,  a 
little  chopped  onion  and  celery,  powdered  sage,  pepper  and  salt,  \ 
cup  stale  bread  crumbs  browned  in  oven.  Place  all  in  a  frying  pan 
with  a  little  stock  or  melted  butter.  Cook  all  together  for  5  min- 
utes. 

VICTUALIES. 

1  pound  round  steak ;  \  cup  finely  chopped  onions ; 

1  egg;  Enough  milk  to  moisten  bread 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  crumbs. 

%  cup  stale  bread  crumbs ; 

Mix  all  lightly  together  with  a  fork,  press  into  cakes  a  little 
thicker  than  sausages.  Roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  butter 
and  lard. 

Mrs.  Einil  Bouillet. 


I 

MEXICAN  DISHES 

I 

HOT  TAMALES,  No.  1. 

Into  1  quart  of  boiling  soup  stock  or  water  stir  enough  cornmeal 
to  make  a  stiff  mush.  Salt  to  taste  and  cook  well.  Set  aside.  Soften 
clean  corn  husks  by  putting  into  hot  water.  Take  2  large,  red.  dry 
chili  peppers,  remove  seeds  and  pour  hot  water  over  peppers  to 
soften.  Add  6  pepper  corns  to  the  peppers  and  pound  to  a  paste. 
Add  garlic  and  onions  if  desired  and  enough  water  to  make  1  pint  of 
liquid.  Cut  up  a  fat  piece  of  raw  beef  or  mutton  into  pieces  an  inch 
and  a  half  or  two  inches  long,  and  a  spoonful  of  mush,  flatten  it  out 
and  put  in  center  a  teaspoon  of  chili  sauce  and  one  piece  of  the  meat, 
fold  up,  roll  in  corn  husks  and  tie.  Put  in  kettle  and  steam  four 
hours.     Serve  hot. 


HOT  TAMALES,  No.  2. 

Grind  boiled  veal  or  chicken,  two  red  peppers,  two  onions, 
salt  to  taste  and  enough  cayenne  pepper  to  make  it  very  hot. 
the  corn  husks  with  the  above  mixture  and  serve. 


Add 
Fill 


CHOP  SUEY. 

Take  one  cupful  of  chopped  chicken,  one-half  cup  of  sliced  veal, 
two  sliced  onions,  one-half  cup  diced  celery,  one-half  cup  mush- 
rooms, one  tablespoon  butter.  Mix  together,  smother  until  well  cook- 
ed, and  then  add  one  tablespoon  of  Chinese  suey  sauce.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper. 

MEXICAN  SAUCE. 


2  cups  tomato ; 
Sprig  parsley ; 
Cayenne  and  salt. 


J  cup  butter ; 

I  cup  flour; 

1  onion,  chopped; 

{  cup  chopped  ham ; 

Brown  the  ham  and  onion  slightly  in  the  butter,  add  the  flour 
and  seasonings,  then  the  tomato  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Pour 
over  the  tongue,  cover  and  cook  slowly  in  the  oven  for  one  hour. 


s 

FOWLS,  GAME 
AND  POT  PIES 

s 

ROAST  TURKEY. 

The  turkey  should  be  dressed  2  or  3  days,  but  should  not  be 
salted  until  the  evening  before  roasting.  To  salt  rub  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  salt  inside  and  a  tablespoonful  in  breast,  where  the  crop  was 
taken  out.  Place  small  onion  inside.  Cream  \  cup  soft  butter,  and  J 
cup  flour,  and  1  egg  yolk  together,  and  rub  all  over  fowl.  Place  on 
wire  rest  in  roaster,  and  put  in  a  very  hot  oven,  with  1  pint  of  boil- 
ing water.  Leave  uncovered  until  both  sides  are  seared.  Bake  \ 
hour  on  each  side  then  turn  breast  down  and  finish  roasting. 

Roast  an  8  or  10  pound  turkey  2-J  hours,  a  12  pound  turkey  3 
hours  and  larger  birds  in  accordance. 

STUFFING  FOR  TURKEY. 

Put  \  gallon  stale  home-made  bread  crumbs  into  a  gallon  crock. 

Sprinkle  with  1  teaspoonful  powdered  sage,  salt  and  pepper,  \  cup 

finely  chopped  celery,  \  cup  chopped  onions*  and  stir  all  together. 

Use  1  pint  of  broth  from  turkey  cooled  with  1  cup    of    cold    water, 

adding  1  beaten  egg  to  it.     Pour  enough  over  crumbs  to  make  as 

moist  as  desired.     The  broth  should  be  taken  out  after  the  bird  has 

*        .  .  . 

cooked  1  hour,  and  replaced  by  1  pint  of  boiling  water.     The  stuffing 

can  be  baked  in  turkey  or  in  separate  pan.    When  done  remove  bird 

and  make  gravy  as  follows :  Blend  1  cup  cream  and  3  tablespoonfuls 

of  flour  together,  stir  into  roaster  and  let  boil.     Pour  1  cup  of  the 

boiling  gravy  over  the  dressing  and  let  boil  before  serving.     Oysters 

may  be  added  if  preferred. 

ROASTED  CHICKEN. 

Roast  and  stuff  in  the  same  manner  as    turkey. 

ROAST  GOOSE. 

Choose  a  young  goose  4  to  6  months  old.  Dress  the  fowl  tw^enty- 
four  hours  before  using,  and  soak  in  salt-water  two  hours  before 
roasting ;  make  a  dressing  same  as  for  turkey,  using  \  the  amount 
and  adding  1  cup  of  hot  mashed  potatoes.  Dredge  the  fowl  with 
butter  and  flour,  stuff  and  bake  a  rich  brown.  Serve  with  water 
gravy  and  apple  sauce. 

To  dress  ducks  and  geese,  see  miscellaneous  department. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  33 

ROAST  DUCK. 

Prepare  and  cook  same  as  roast  goose,  omitting  potatoes  in  stuf- 
fing. 

ROAST  GUINEA. 

Select  a  young  fat  guinea  fowl  6  months  old,  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  with  flour  and  butter.  Guinea  fowls  contain  more  dark  meat 
than  other  fowls,  and  therefore  require  longer  baking.  Make  dress- 
ing and  stuff  same  as  chicken. 

CHICKEN  POT  PIE. 

One  chicken  cooked  until  it  drops  from  the  bones,  drain  off  broth 
and  thicken  with  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  blended  with  cold 
water.  Thicken  and  boil.  Put  chicken  in  baking  dish  and  pour  over 
the  hot  gravy.    Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Make  a  soft  batter  as  follows  and  pour  over  chicken  and  gravy : 

2  cups  of  flour ;  2  tablespoonfuls  butter ; 

J  teaspoon  salt ;  1  egg  well  beaten ; 

2  teaspoon  baking  powder ;  1  cup  sweet  milk. 

Add  the  baking  powder  to  the  last  half  cup  of  flour  and  fold  in 
gently,  drop  on  chicken  and  bake  at  once. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Wardwell. 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

.Cook  a  young  hen  until  tender  enough  to  fall  from  bones.  Cool. 
Pick  off  fat  and  shred.  Line  a  deep  granite  pan  or  baking  dish  with 
a  rich  biscuit  dough  little  thicker  than  pie  crust.  Put  in  meat,  salt, 
pepper,  a  little  chopped  celery  and  1  cup  stock  from  chicken.  Dredge 
well  with  flour.  Put  on  top  crust,  slash  and  bake  a  light  brown. 
Make  a  gravy  to  pour  over  before  serving  out  of  the  broth  that  is  left. 
Individual  pies  are  nice  made  in  this  way. 

VEAL  POT  PIE. 

3  pounds  veal  ribs ;  1  small  bunch  celery,  and  1  onion. 

Boil  until  tender.  Make  dough  as  for  baking  powder  bicuits. 
Put  the  veal  and  1  quart  of  broth  in  roaster  or  baking  pan.  Roll  dough 
l  inch  thick.  Cut  in  two  inch  squares.  Place  on  top  of  veal,  and  bake 
in  oven.  Broth  should  be  thickened  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  be- 
fore dumplings  are  added. 


34  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


VEAL  PIE. 

One  quart  of  shredded  cooked  veal  seasoned  with  1  teaspoonful 
celery  salt.  Little  pepper,  teaspoonful  minced  onion,  two  hard  boiled 
eggs  sliced.  Mix  together  and  put  into  pan  lined  with  rich  biscuit 
dough.  Put  on  top  crust  and  slash,  a  cup  of  thickened  broth  having 
been  previously  added.    Individual  pies  may  be  made  if  prefered. 

RABBIT  POT  PIE. 

Make  the  same  as  veal  pot  pie,  omitting  onion. 

CHICKEN  AND  DUMPLINGS.    No.  1. 

Stew  a  six-months-old  chicken,  or  a  hen  1  year  old.  Salt  when 
half  done,  and  cook  tender.  Make  drop  dumplings  of  1  cup  rich 
sweet  milk,  J  teaspoon  salt,  1  egg,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and 
about  2  cups  of  flour.  Drop  a  heaping  teaspoonful  at  a  time  into 
boiling  broth.  Cover  well  and  set  in  a  hot  oven,  or  fireless  cooker, 
until  done. 

Aimee  Ware. 

VEAL  STEW. 

Select  any  piece  of  veal  preferred.  Salt  and  stew  until  tender. 
Put  in  two  stocks  of  celery  cut  in  inch  pieces.  Pare  and  dice  one  pint 
of  potatoes  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley.  Use  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  to  thicken  the  broth,  which  should  cover  all. 

VEAL  POT  PIE. 

Use  any  piece  of  veal  preferred.  Salt  and  pepper.  Stew  until 
tender.  Put  into  roaster,  add  dumplings,  made  of  rich  biscuit 
dough  rolled  as  thick  again  as  pie  crust  and  cut  into  squares.  Dredge 
top  well  with  flour  and  bake.  Dumplings  made  and  baked  in  this 
manner  will  not  fall. 

CHICKEN  AND  DUMPLINGS.    No.  2. 

Select  a  large  fat  hen  one  year  old,  boil  \  hour  before  salting,  boil 
until  tender.  Take  out  of  the  stew  pot  and  put  into  a  roaster,  and  add 
enough  water  to  broth  to  make  2  quarts  if  the  hen  is  fat  enough  to 
allow  it.  Reserve  1  pint  for  the  dumplings.  Take  2  tablespoons  of 
flour  and  add  enough  warm  water  to  make  a  thin  paste.  Pour  the 
boiling  broth  over  it  and  stir  well,  then  return  to  stew  kettle  and  let 
boil  well.  Pour  over  the  chicken  in  roaster  and  baste  often  until  very 
tender. 

To  make  the  dumplings,  use  the  pint  of  reserved  boiling  broth 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  35 


without  thickening.  Put  flour  into  dough  pan,  making  hole  in  the 
center ;  pour  in  the  broth  boiling  hot,  using  a  silver  fork  with  which 
to  mix.  When  dough  is  thick  enough  to  roll,  flour  well  on  both  sides, 
roll  J  inch  thick,  and  cut  into  2  inch  squares.  Place  roaster  on  top  of 
stove  and  add  a  little  more  water  if  necessary.  Drop  dumplings 
around  the  chicken,  return  to  oven  and  finish  baking.  Dredge  top 
with  a  little  pepper  and  flour. 

Mrs.  T.  M.  Stevenson. 

CHICKEN  AND  DUMPLINGS.    No.  3. 

Prepare  and  cook  a  chicken  the  same  as  for  No.  1.  Cook  in 
roaster  in  plenty  of  water,  until  tender.  Make  dumplings  rather 
stiff  of  rich  biscuit  dough.  Cut  in  2  inch  squares,  drop  into  the 
thickened  broth,  covering  the  chicken  well.  Return  to  oven  and 
finish  cooking. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Cook  a  6-months  old  chicken  until  it  falls  from  the  bones.  Drain 
in  colander  and  cool.  Remove  all  fat  from  broth  and  boil  down  to  1  cup. 
Pick  meat  from  bones,  mince  fine,  put  into  broth  and  re-heat.  Add  \ 
teaspoon  celery  salt.  Have  ready  \  dozen  cold  hard  boiled  eggs. 
Slice  off  tip  ends,  and  stand  in  center  of  largest  size  dried  beef  glasses. 
Press  the  chicken  well  around  the  egg,  add  another  egg,  repeat  pack- 
ing until  the  glass  is  rounding  full.  Put  individual  butter  plates  on 
top  and  weight,  until  cold.  When  ready  to  serve  loosen  the  meat 
from  the  bottom  and  sides  of  glass.  Lay  on  meat  board  to  cut,  letting 
enough  extend  beyond  the  top  each  time  for  one  slice.  This  method 
prevents  slices  from  breaking.    Serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN. 

Prepare  in  same  manner  as  for  pressed  chicken,  leaving  2  cups  of 
broth.  Cool,  and  remove  fat  from  broth.  Add  a  dessert  spoonful  of 
granulated  gelatine,  previously  soaked  in  ^  cup  of  cold  water  for  15 
minutes.  Heat  until  it  is  dissolved.  Add  minced  chicken,  -|  cup 
chopped  nuts,  1  pimeuto  or  red  mango  chopped,  -|  cup  finely  chopped 
celery,  and  a  speck  of  cayenne.  Pour  an  inch  thick  in  a  granite  or 
aluminum  pan.  Set  on  ice  until  hard  enough  to  cut  into  squares. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaf  or  garnish  with  parsley. 

STEWED  CHICKEN. 

Take  a  fat  six-months-old  chicken,  pour  boiling  water  over  it, 
salt  and  cook  until  tender.    Put  in  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  stalk 


36  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


of  celery.  Cook  10  minutes.  Take  2  tablespoonful  of  flower  or  corn 
starch,  and  1  cup  cream,  beat  until  smooth  with  dover  egg  beater,  in 
a  quart  bowl,  pour  the  boiling  broth  over  it,  stirring  briskly.  Return 
to  kettle  and  let  raise  the  boiling  point. 

Gravy  made  in  this  manner  will  be  smooth  and  light,  and  much 
better  than  if  the  thickening  is  poured  in  the  broth.  Can  be  served 
on  hot  biscuits  split  and  laid  on  platter. 

STEWED  QUAIL. 

Cook  the  same  way  as  stewed  chicken,  but  do  not  make  too 
much  broth  as  it  will  be  weak  and  tasteless. 

STEWED  RABBIT,  or  SQUIRREL. 

Is  prepared  the  same  as  chicken  or  quail.  Garnish  with  celery 
sprigs. 

FRIED  RABBIT,  or  SQUIRREL. 

A  rabbit  is  best,  frozen  over  night.  Thaw  in  cold  salt  water. 
Roll  in  flour  and  bread  crumbs,  salt  an  pepper  to  taste,  and  fry  very 
slowly  in  plenty  of  butter  and  lard  as  it  takes  longer  than  to  fry 
chicken.  Much  better  if  fried  in  a  fireless  cooker  as  it  retains  all 
its  flavor  and  does  not  burn. 

FRIED  CHICKEN. 

Dress  and  disjoint  a  2 \  pound  spring  chicken.  Dredge  with  flour, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  fry  in  dutch  oven  to  a  rich  brown.  Lift  on 
platter  and  make  a  water  gravy  by  pouring  in  \\  cups  boiling  water, 
thickening  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

FRIED  SQUABS,  or  QUAIL. 

Dress  and  split  into  halves  and  fry  the  same  as  chicken.  Make 
gravy  with  §  cup  of  water  and  \  cup  cream,  1  tablespoonful  flour. 

BROILED  QUAIL. 

Dress  and  split  in  halves,  soak  a  short  time  in  salt  water,  dry 
with  a  cloth,  rub  them  over  with  melted  butter,  place  on  a  broiler 
over  a  clear  fire  and  turn  frequently.  Place  on  platter,  or  buttered 
toast  and  put  bits  of  butter  over  them.  Garnish  with  parsley  or  cel- 
ery sprigs. 

BROILED  SQUIRREL. 

Skin  the  squirrels,  and  lay  them  in  salt-water  to  remove  the 
blood.  Remove  the  head  and  feet  and  broil  whole ;  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter;  serve  with  currant  jam  or  grape  jelly. 


1 

VEGETABLES 

s 

TIME  FOR  COOKING  BEANS. 

Marrow  fat  beans  will  cook  in  two  hours.  White  kidney  beans, 
and  lima  beans  in  the  same  time,  while  soup  beans  require  twice  the 
time.  If  beans  are  over  six  months  old  they  should  be  cooked  from 
one-half  to  one  hour  longer.  Beans  should  always  be  washed  well  in 
cold  water  and  put  to  cook  in  more  than  double  their  bulk  of  boiling 
water  and  set  back  where  they  will  barely  simmer  the  first  hour. 

HOW  TO  CHOOSE  GOOD  POTATOES. 

To  choose  a  good  potato  for  mashing,  try  grating  it  and  if  it  is 
white  and  foamy  and  does  not  turn  red  in  a  few  minutes,  it  is  first 
class,  but  if  it  turns  red  or  dark  it  is  fit  only  to  fry  or  to  use  in  soups. 

MASHED  POTATOES. 

Boil  rapidly  until  well  done,  drain  and  dry."  Turn  into  a  hot 
dish,  put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  enough  cream  into  the  hot  kettle 
in  which  they  were  cooked  and  run  them  through  a  potato  ricer  onto 
the  butter  and  hot  cream.  Salt  and  beat  until  white  and  light.  Do 
not  allow  to  stand  long  before  serving.  Garnish  with  bits  of  butter 
and  pepper."   A  little  sugar  improves  them. 

POTATOES  ON  THE  HALF  SHELL. 

Choose  medium  sized  smooth  potatoes,  bake  brown,  split  open 
and  scoop  out,  leaving  only  the  shells.  Mash  well,  add  salt,  pepper 
and  butter.  Fold  in  the  well  beaten  white  of  one  egg,  fill  shells  and 
return  to  oven.    Let  brown  well.    Very  nice  for  parties. 

CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Peel  and  cut  into  halves  Jersey  sweet  potatoes,  dredge  in  equal 
parts  of  sugar  and  flour,  \  teaspoon  salt.  Place  in  baking  pan  with  \ 
cup  melted  butter  and  a  tablespoon  of  water.  Bake  both  sides  a  rich 
brown,  from  \  to  J  of  an  hour.    Bake  on  grate. 

SWEET  POTATOES  SOUTHERN  STYLE. 

Select  smooth  Jersey  sweet  potatoes.  Wash  well,  boil  or  steam 
without  peeling  until  tender.  Remove  peeling,  dredge  in  flour  and 
sugar  and  fry  in  butter  until  a  light  brown. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


CANDIED  PARSNIPS. 

Treat  in  same  manner  as  candied  sweet  potatoes;  bake  very  crisp. 

OLD  STYLE  PARSNIPS. 

Peel  and  split  in  halves,  put  in  frying  pan,  cover  \  with  boiling 
water.  Add  1  teaspoon  sugar,  \  teaspoon  salt  and  heaping  tablespoon 
butter.    Cook  down  dry  and  fry  both  sides  a  rich  brown. 

CARROTS  WITH  PEAS. 

The  carrots  should  be  cooked  in  salt  water  until  tender,  then 
added  to  canned  peas.  If  cooked  with  green  peas  they  should  be 
cooked  10  minutes  previous  to  adding  the  peas.  If  the  carrots  are 
cut  in  fancy  shapes  they  add  much  to  the  appearance.  Little  fancy 
cutters  in  shapes  of  spades,  clubs,  hearts,  and  diamonds,  may  be  found 
where  kitchen  novelties  are  sold,  for  only  10  cents  each. 

SARATOGA  CHIPS. 

Wash,  peel  and  dry  first  class  potatoes  for  plain  chips.  Slice 
thin,  and  dry  between  linen  towels.  Have  fat  smoking  hot.  Drop  a 
small  whole  potato  in  bottom  to  prevent  fat  from  burning.  Drop  in 
chips,  a  few  at  a  time;  fry  until  crisp.  Remove  with  a  wire  egg  whip, 
drain  and  salt.  For  fancy  chips  use  a  fancy  potato  slicer.  Cut  in  any 
desired  shape.  Never  wash  potatoes  after  they  are  sliced,  if  you 
wish  them  to  be  crisp. 

POTATO  PUFFS. 

Run  cold  mashed  potatoes  through  a  potato  ricer ;  add  a  little 
celery  salt  and  the  well  beaten  white  of  an  egg.  Use  forcing  bag  and 
make  in  rosette  shapes  on  buttered  pans  and  bake  in  oven  until  they 
are  a  light  brown.    These  are  ver}^  nice  for  luncheons. 

BAKED  BEANS  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Wash  1  pint  of  soup  beans  or  white  kidney  beans  in  cold  water. 
Pour  1  quart  of  boiling  water  with  a  tiny  pinch  of  soda  over  them. 
Set  on  back  of  stove  and  let  simmer  until  half  done,  leaving  scarcely 
enough  water  to  cover  them.  Add  1  pint  canned  tomatoes,  1  table- 
spoon sugar,  1  teaspoon  celery  salt,  and  enough  table  salt  to  suit  the 
taste,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  1  tablespoon  prepared  mustard.  Place 
several  slices  of  bacon  and  onion  in  the  bottom  of  a  casserole  or  bak- 
ing dish  and  bake  until  done. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  39 


GREEN  BEANS 

I  prefer  the  bird  egg  bunch,  bean,  which  has  large  mealy  beans 
and  rich  tender  pods.  Cook  with  fresh  or  pickled  pork  or  nice  sweet 
bacon.    Requires  about  three  hours  to  cook. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES. 

Cut  off  stem  ends  of  nice  solid  tomatoes,  and  scoop  out  pulp, 
leaving  shell  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Chop  equal  parts 
of  celery,  tomato  pulp  and  a  little  sliced  green  or  canned  corn.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  mustard,  and  enough  stale  bread  crumbs 
to  thicken.     Fill  shells  and  bake. 

Myrtle  Ware. 

YELLOW  WAX  BEANS. 

Break  into  small  pieces  and  cook  in  salt  water  until  tender.  Add 
plenty  of  butter,  cook  until  the  water  no  longer  covers  them.  Add  t 
cup  of  sweet  cream  and  a  little  flour.  Pour  in  and  boil.  They  are  not 
so  insipid  cooked  in  this  manner. 

YOUNG  LIMA  BEANS. 

Hull  and  cook  the  same  as  wax  beans.  Use  very  little  thicken- 
ing in  the  cream. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Select  either  white  navy  or  marrowfat  beans,  as  soon  as  they  are 
ripe  enough  to  hull.  Cook  in  salt  water  until  tender,  but  not  broken 
or  mushy.  Then  add  as  much  finely  cut  green  corn,  a  little  at  a  time, 
to  the  boiling  hot  beans.  Season  with  butter  and  cream.  Care  must 
be  used  after  the  corn  is  added  to  prevent  sticking  to  the  bottom  of 
the  kettle,  as  it  would  be  ruined  if  scorched. 

BOILED  CORN  ON  THE  COB. 

Select  corn  that  is  young  and  tender.  Silk  well.  Fill  a  kettle 
half  full  of  boiling  water.  Put  in  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  drop  in 
one  ear  at  a  time.  Have  the  water  boiling  rapidly,  over  a  hot  fire  or 
the  corn  will  taste  raw.  Boil  20  minutes,  drain  in  a  colander  before 
serving. 

CREAMED  STEWED  CORN 

Take  a  sharp  pointed  knife,  split  each  row  lengthwise,  then  cut 
the  corn  from  the  cob.     Barely  clip  off  the  tops  of  the  grains,  then 


40  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


scrape  all  the  pulp  from  the  cob  with  the  back  of  the  knife.  Put  a 
tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  stew  pan  and  pour  in  1  cup  boiling  water  and 

1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt  to  12'  or  14  ears  of  corn.  Stir  well 
for  5  minutes  then  set  on  back  of  range  and  let  cook  slowly  for  15 
minutes.    When  ready  to  serve  pour  in  \  cup  sweet  cream. 

FRIED  CORN. 

Prepare  corn  in  same  manner  as  stewed  corn,  omitting  the  wa- 
ter. Season  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  sugar.  Fry  a  light 
brown. 

ESCALLOPED  CORN. 

Use  canned  or  cold  stewed  corn,  put  in  baking  dish  in  alternate 
layers  with  cracker  crumbs,  bits  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Pour 
over  a  cup  of  milk  with  an  egg  beaten  in  it  and  bake  until  it  boils 
up  in  the  center. 

BAKED  CORN. 

Take  1  pint  of  fresh  or  canned  corn,  season  with  pepper,  salt 
and  1  teaspoon  sugar.  Add  \  cup  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  1  cup 
cream,  1  well  beaten  egg.  Mix  all  together  and  bake  well  in  a  but- 
tered casserole. 

GREEN  PEPPERS  STUFFED  WITH  CORN. 

6  large  sweet  peppers ;  J  cup  cream ; 

2  cups  green  corn ;  \  cup  boiling  water  ; 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter ;  1  teaspoonful  salt ; 

3  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water ;         \  teaspoonful  pepper. 

Way  of  preparing : 

With  a  sharp  knife  cut  around  three-fourths  of  the  stem  end  of 
each  pepper,  leaving  it  hinged  by  the  other  fourth  as  a  lid.  Remove 
the  seeds  and  inner  membranes.  Cover  the  pepper  with  cold  water, 
and  bring  it  to  a  boil.  Drain  off  the  water,  cover  them  with  fresh 
boiling  water  and  simmer  until  tender.  Drain,  sprinkle  lightly  with 
salt  and  allow  to  cool.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  fry- 
ing pan  and  heat  it.  When  hot  add  the  green  corn  and  the  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water.  Cook  five  minutes  and  add  the 
cream  and  seasonings.  Now  cook  slowly  until  quite  thick.  Let 
the  mixture  then  cool  and  fill  your  prepared  peppers  with 
it,  Fasten  down  the  stem-end  lids  of  the  peppers  and  place 
them  in  a  buttered  baking  dish.     Melt  the  remaining  tablespoonful 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  41 


of  butter  in  the  half  cup  of  boiling  water,  pour  the  liquid  over  the 
peppers  and  bake  for  twenty-five  minutes.  These  will  be  found  delici- 
ous to  serve  with  fish  courses. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Raise  your  own  asparagus  if  possible.  It  can  be  grown  by  get- 
ting roots  and  setting  out  same  as  rhubarb,  only  they  should  be  set  in  a 
sunny  place  and  kept  free  from  weeds.  The  tips  should  be  gathered 
while  young  and  tender  and  should  not  be  allowed  to  grow  over 
5  inches  long.  Reject  the  lower  woody  ends,  break  in  inch  lengths. 
Cook  in  boiling  salt  water,  same  as  peas,  adding  a  liberal  pinch  of 
sugar  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  Cook  about  20  minutes,  season  with 
cream  and  a  little  flour.  Asparagus  is  nice  served  on  toast  or  in 
patties. 

SALSIFY  OR  VEGETABLE  OYSTERS. 

Wash  and  scrape  well,  cut  into  inch  lengths,  throw  into  cold  wa- 
ter until  ready  to  cook,  to  avoid  turning  brown.  Pour  over  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  well,  add  salt  to  suit  the  taste  and  cook  until 
tender.  Season  with  butter,  use  1  cup  cream  and  two  or  three  table- 
spoons very  fine  cracker  crumbs,  blended  with  the  cream. .  Pour  in 
just  before  serving.  If  any  is  left  over  it  is  fine  scalloped  the  same  as 
corn  or  oysters. 

BOILED  CABBAGE. 

Select  small  loose  heads,  cook  with  pork  or  beef  until  done,  add 
a  level  teaspoon  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  with  sauce 
or  cold  vinegar. 

CREAMED  CABBAGE. 

Cut  a  little  coarser  than  for  slaw.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and 
season  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Just  be- 
fore serving  add  \  cup  sweet  cream.  A  little  chopped  celery  cooked 
with  it  makes  a  fine  addition. 

ESCALLOPED  CABBAGE. 

1  quart  cabbage,  prepared  2  tablespoonfuls  butter; 

as  for  slaw ;  1  tablespoonful  flour ; 

1  teaspoonful  salt ;  1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  quart  boiling  water ;  \  teaspoonful  pepper ; 

1  cup  sweet  milk;  1  cup  fine  cracker  crumbs; 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 


42  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


Pour  the  boiling  water  on  the  cabbage  and  add  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Boil  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  off  the  water.  Heat  the  milk, 
cream  the  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  the  flour  and  add  them 
to  the  milk.  Then  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  the  pepper.  Cook 
to  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Remove  from  the  fire.  Butter  a 
small  pudding  dish  and  sprinkle  the  bottom  with  cracker  crumbs. 
Put  in  half  your  cabbage,  add  more  crumbs,  then  half  the  sauce. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Wash  the  heads  well,  soak  in  strong,  cold,  salt  water  for  1  hour. 
Steam  in  a  steamer  and  when  tender  make  a  thin  white  sauce  of  1 
cup  water,  J  cup  butter,  \  cup  cream,  and  a  heaping  teaspoon  flour. 
Season  and  drop  the  cauliflower  in  a  few  minutes  before  serving. 
Chopped  celery  is  also  good  with  cauliflower. 

TURNIPS. 

Peel  and  slice  same  as  fried  potatoes.  Cover  with  water,  add 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Cook  until  tender.  Add 
a  \  cup  of  cream  and  serve. 

CARROTS. 

Prepare  and  cook  in  the  same  manner  as  turnips  using  a  dessert 
spoon  of  flour  in  the  cream  before  adding  it. 

DANDELION  GREENS. 

Select  young,  tender  dandelions,  and  wash  well.  Boil  for  one  and 
one-half  hours,  in  enough  water  to  cover  well.  When  done  fry  sev- 
eral slices  of  bacon  and  one  egg  cut  fine.  Drain  greens,  salt  and  fry 
with  the  bacon  and  egg  and  serve  with  vinegar.  Never  cook  in  an 
iron  kettle. 

STEWED  ONIONS. 

Select  young  tender  white  onions  about  the  size  of  a  small  hen's 
egg.  Boil  in  a  porcelain  kettle  for  one  hour  in  enough  water  to  cover. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  scant  teaspoon  of  sugar.  When 
done  add  ■§  cup  swreet  cream  with  1  teaspoon  flour  blended  with  it. 
Pour  in  and  let  boil  before  serving.  If  the  onions  are  old  it  is  better 
to  slice  them. 

Use  only  the  best  cider  vinegar,  which  can  be  purified  by  boiling  for   10  minutes.     Cool 
and  pour  into  self  sealing  cans,  for  convenient  use. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  43 


CREAMED  PEAS  IN  TIMBALS. 

Peas  should  be  gathered  while  young  and  tender.  Hull  and  wash 
in  cold  water,  drain.  Salt  to  taste,  add  scant  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  a 
liberal  tablespoon  of  butter.  Cook  20  minutes  and  add  \  cup  of  sweet 
cream  with  1  desert  spoon  flour  blended  with  it.  Pour  into  boiling 
peas,  let  simmer  and  serve  in  timbals. 

PEAS  FRENCH  STYLE. 

Cook  same  as  creamed  peas,  omitting  the  cream  and  using  less 
water.     Season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

FRIED  EGG  PLANT. 

Slice  plant  \  inch  thick,  soak  1  hour  in  salt  water.  Beat  an  egg 
well,  season  with  celery  salt  and  pepper  and  1  tablespoon  of  cream. 
Dip  the  plant  in  the  egg  mixture,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  slow- 
ly in  butter. 

SUMMER  SQUASH. 

Cut  the  squash  in  same  manner  as  you  would  pumpkin.  Cook 
until  done  and  dry.    Mash  and  season  with  butter  and  cream. 

TOMATO  JELLY. 

To  3  cups  strained  and  cooked,  tomato  pulp,  take  1  teaspoon  su- 
gar, 1  teaspoon  celery  salt,  a  little  Coolman's  mustard,  ^  cup  mild 
vinegar,  1  envelope  or  1  rounding  tablespoon  gelatin,  soaked  5  min- 
utes in  -J  cup  of  cold  water,  pour  into  boiling  hot  tomatoes,  stir  until 
dissolved.  Pour  in  border  mold  or  in  individual  molds,  or  it  may  be 
molded  in  a  granite  bread  pan  and  cut  into  cubes. 

CREAMED  TOMATOES. 

Pour  1  can  of  tomatoes,  or  as  many  fresh  ripe  ones  sliced,  into  a 
sauce  pan.  Season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  also  throw  in  a  few 
stalks  of  celery.  Cook  until  done.  Canned  ones  need  very  little  cook- 
ing. Before  serving  add  |  cup  heavy  sweet  cream  with  1  dessert- 
spoon of  flour  blended  with  it.  Have  the  tomatoes  boiling  rapidly. 
Stir  cream  in  quickly,  and  stir  until  the  flour  is  cooked. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

Put  alternate  layers  of  tomatoes  and  bread  crumbs  in  casserole 
or  baking  dish.    Add  a  little  chopped  celery  and  season  with  butter. 


44  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


salt  and  pepper  between  each  layer.    Pour  \  cup  of  cream  over  top  and 
hake. 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS. 

Prepare  tomatoes  the  same  as  for  escalloped  tomatoes,  mix  all 
together  omitting  the  cream,  and  fill  the  mangoes.  Stand  on  end  in 
small  pan,  pour  a  little  water  in  the  bottom.  Bake  until  well  cooked 
through. 

KALE. 

Fifteen  cents  worth  of  kale  will  make  the  average  family  a 
meal.  Wash  well,  boil  in  a  porcelain  kettle  from  2  to  3  hours.  Drain 
well  and  put  in  frying  pan,  where  bacon  or  ham  has  fried.  Salt  to 
taste.     Serve  with  cold  vinegar  that  has  been  well  boiled. 

SPINACH. 

Examine  leaves  well,  wash  thoroughly,  and  cook  until  tender  in 
salt  water,  in  a  porcelain  vessel.  When  done  drain  and  put  in  fry- 
ing pan,  where  ham  has  been  fried.  Serve  with  cold  vinegar.  Cook 
canned  spinach  same  way  except  that  it  requires  warming  up  in 
place  of  being  cooked  thoroughly. 


s 

SALADS  AND  SALAD 
DRESSINGS 

s 

CHICKEN  SALAD.    No.  1. 

1  cup  chopped  celery;  2  ripe  mangoes  or  piinentoes,  chop- 

1  tablespoon  minced  parsley;  ped  fine; 

2  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped;  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Prepare  chicken  the  same  as  for  pressed  chicken,  leaving  very 
little  broth.'  Chop  and  mix  with  the  above  ingredients.  Serve  on 
lettuce  leaf  on  salad  plates.  Put  salad  dressing  on  top  and  cover  with 
chopped  nuts. 

CHICKEN  SALAD.    No.  2. 

1  cup  chopped  celery ;  1  cup  chopped  cabbage ; 

1  cup  chopped  peanuts  (blanched);  2  red  mangoes,  chopped; 
A  dash  of  cayenne ;  Salt  to  taste. 

Prepare  the  same  as  No.  1,  serve  on  shredded  lettuce.  Cover  top 
with  salad  dressing  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

VEAL  SALADS. 

2  cups  chopped  cooked  veal ;  1  cup  lean  pork,  chopped ; 
1  cup  chopped  celery;  1  green  pepper  chopped; 
1  cup  chopped  nuts ;  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Blend  all  together  with  a  little  salad  dressing,  place  on  salad 
plates,  cover  with  dressing,  garnish  with  parsley  sprigs. 

1910. 

FRESH  PORK  OR  HAM  SALAD. 

Can  be  made  same  as  veal  salad  by  using  all  pork  or  ham,  and  with 
the  addition  of  a  few  cold  boiled  chopped  potatoes  and  a  little  chopped 
onion. 

ASPIC  SALAD. 

Set  small  glass  moulds  in  a  pan  of  crushed  ice ;  on  the  bottom  of 
each  place  half  of  an  olive  and  a  ring  of  capers,  then  pour  in  about  an 
inch  of  chicken  aspic  jelly,  then  a  layer  of  salmon  meat  thoroughly 
mixed  with  cream ;  then  another  layer  of  chicken  aspic  jelly.     Turn 


46  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


it  out  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with  a  teaspoon  of  mayonnaise  dressing.  It  is 
fine.  Aspic  jelly  can  be  made  from  any  stock.  To  three  pints  of  clear 
stock  add  two  ounces  of  gelatine  that  has  been  dissolved  in  cold  wa- 
ter. Beat  up  whites  and  shells  of  two  eggs  and  one  yolk,  add  them 
to  the  stock.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  one  tablespoon  of  catsup, 
one  of  vinegar,  one  each  of  savory,  thyme,  marjoram,  and  parsley,  a 
leaf  of  mace,  two  cloves,  white  pepper  and  salt.  Set  over  a  slow  fire 
stirring  until  it  boils.  Set  aside  to  settle.  Strain  through  a  coarse 
cloth  and  set  aside  to  jell. 

A  DAINTY  SALAD  DISH. 

Take  large  thick  cucumbers,  cut  through  the  middle  lengthwise ; 
scrape  out  the  inside  and  you  have  a  pretty  individual  green  boat,  in 
which  to  serve  a  salad.  They  must  be  kept  on  ice  until  ready  for  use. 
This  is  attractive  for  shrimp  salad,  as  the  colors  blend  nicely.  Any 
salad  will  do  for  a  filling. 

SHRIMP  SALAD. 

Use  either  cooked  or  canned  shrimps.  If  canned  shrimps  are 
used  remove  from  can,  wTash  and  chill  thoroughly  in  ice  water.  Add 
an  equal  portion  of  celery  or  cucumber;  if  cucumber,  serve  in  cucum- 
ber boats  on  lettuce.  Remove  the  pulp  from  the  cucumbers  with  a 
scoop  spoon  and  fill  with  the  above  mixture.  Add  a  tablespoon  of 
mayonnaise  just  before  serving. 

JAPANESE  SALAD. 

Cut  the  tops  off  tomatoes ;  remove  the  pulp,  and  fill  with  any  de- 
sired salad.    Put  on  ice  to  chill.    Serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf. 

BEET  SALAD. 

Two  cups  chopped  beet-pickles,  2  cups  chopped  cabbage,  J  cup 
chopped  celery;  J  cup  of  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste.  Blend  all  together 
and  cover  with  salad  dressing.  Garnish  with  beets  cut  in  tiny  heart 
shapes. 

ONION  SALAD. 

1  cup  toasted  bread  crubs ;  1  cup  white  Spanish  onions ; 

2  hard  boiled  eggs ;  1  dill  pickle,  chopped. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf,  with  salad  dress- 
ing on  top,  and  a  sprig  of  parsley  in  the  center. 

Myrtle  Ware. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


47 


SHRIMP  SALAD. 


1  can  of  shrimps; 
\  cup  of  cold  water; 
1  tablespoon  capers'; 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice ; 


2  cups  of  any  meat  broth ; 


J  envelope  gelatine; 

2  truffles ; 

1  cup  canned  or  young  peas. 


Soak  the  gelatine  for  10  minutes  in  the  \  cup  cold  water.  Dis-. 
solve  in  the  hot  broth,  cut  truffles  in  thin  slices,  and  line  fish  mould. 
Let  the  mould  stand  in  ice  water.  Dip  the  truffles  in  the  cool  gelatine 
broth  and  set  in  place.  Split  part  of  the  shrimps  and  use  in  lining 
mould.  Pour  gelatine  over  all  the  ingredients,  and  mold.  Use  the 
peas  as  a  garnish. 


VEGETABLE  SALAD. 


1  cucumber,  chopped. 

2  pimentos,  chopped; 

\  cup  chopped  cabbage 
1  cup  cold  water ; 


1  cup  chopped  celery; 
1  onion,  chopped; 
1  cup  mild  vinegar ; 
\  dozen  cloves ; 
Little  minced  parsley. 


^  teaspoon  salt ; 
\  cup  sugar ; 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  for  10  minutes.  Dissolve  in  the 
boiling  water,  add  other  ingredients,  and  mold  in  border  or  solid 
mold. 


CHEESE  SALAD. 


2  cups  cream  cheese ; 
J  envelope  gelatine ; 
1  cup  whipped  cream ; 


i  cup  cold  water ; 

-J  cup  American  cheese ; 

Salt,  parika. 


Soak  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  and  dissolve  over  hot  water. 
Moisten  cream  cheese  with  a  little  cream  and  work  until  smooth. 
Add  American  cheese,  wmipped  cream  and  gelatine.  Season  and 
turn  into  individual  molds.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  with 
mayonnaise. 

CHICKEN  SALAD  IN  CREAM. 


2  stalks  celery; 

Few  slices  carrot; 

J  cup  cold  chicken  stock ; 

-|  envelope  gelatin ; 

1  slice  onion; 


|  cup  hot  chicken  stock ; 

1  cup  separated  cream. 

1  cup  cold  diced  chicken. 

Season  with  salt  and  white  peppes 


48  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


Boil  the  vegetables  in  1  pint  chicken  stock,  with  fat  previously 
removed.  Use  J  cup  of  cold  broth  in  which  to  dissolve  the  gelatine ; 
pour  in  the  f  cup  of  hot  stock  and  stir  until  dissolved.  When  cool 
beat  with  dover  egg  beater  until  light.  Add  cream  well  whipped,  and 
the  diced  chicken.  Turn  into  dried  beef  glasses  to  mold.  When  cold 
slice  nearly  an  inch  thick,  and  garnish  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs 
and  sprigs  of  parsley. 

SALMON  SALAD. 

1  can  best  red  salmon ;  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped ; 

•J  cup  celery  chopped  fine;  Salt  to  taste. 

1  cup  chopped  cabbage ; 

Serve  with  salad  dressing  and  chopped  nuts,  on  a  lettuce  leaf. 

BEAN  SALAD. 

1  can  red  kidney  beans  (drained)  ;  1  cu^  chopped  celery; 

•J  cup  chopped  onions ;  \  cup  Jill  pickles  chopped  fine ; 

1  green  pepper,  chopped ;  Dash  of  cayenne. 

Blend  together  with  a  little  salad  dressing,  garnish  with  sprigs 
of  parsley. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Chop  enough  potatoes  when  partly  cool  to  make  1  pint,  2  hard 
boiled  eggs  chopped,  1  cup  chopped  celery,  \  cup  chopped  onion,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  over  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  toss  all 
together  lightly  with  a  silver  fork,  pour  salad  dressing  on  top. 
Sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

CABBAGE  SALAD. 

1  cup  chopped  celery;  3  cups  finely  chopped  crisp  white 
-J  cup  granulated  sugar;  cabbage; 

2  mangoes  chopped  fine ;  Salt  to  taste. 

Blend  all  together  with  a  little  salad  dressing.  Put  a  spoonful 
of  whipped  cream  over  the  top,  and  sprinkle  with  blanched  salted 
peanuts. 

Mildred  Burley. 

DANDELION  SALAD. 

Use  as  many  young  tender  dandelions  as  desired,  cut  very  fine 
with  scissors  leaving  out  the  large  stem  end.     Use  same  quantity  of 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  49 


fresh  crisp  lettuce,  cut  fine.    Salt  to  taste,  add  \  cup  minced  onion,  3 
hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  and  served  with  salad  dressing. 

Aimee  Ware. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

One  can  lobster,  press  out  juice,  mince  coarse,  5  hard  boiled  eggs 
chopped,  \  cup  chopped  cabbage,  a  little  minced  parsley,  1  chopped 
green  mango.  Add  a  dash  of  cayenne  and  salt  to  taste.  Toss  all 
lightly  together  and  serve  with  salad  dressing. 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD. 

Separate  the  sprigs  of  cold  boiled  cauliflower,  put  into  the  salad 
dish  a  head  of  lettuce  and  cover  it  with  mayonnaise.  Arrange  the 
cauliflower  sprigs  around  the  dish  and  serve. 

GELATINE  RELISH 

\  box  gelatine ;  1  cup  canned  pineapple  juice ; 

\  cup  strong  vinegar ;  J  cup  cold  water. 

Soak  gelatine  in  \  cup  cold  water  for  10  minutes.  Put  vinegar 
and  sugar  and  the  pineapple  juice  into  a  sauce  pan.  Let  come  to  the 
boil,  add  gelatine  and  stir  until  well  dissolved.    Add  a  pinch  of  salt. 

"When  gelatine  is  cool  stir  in  the  following  ingredients  and  put  in  a 
plain  or  border  mold. 

1  cup  chopped  pineapple;  1  cup  blanched  almonds  chopped. 

1  pint  sweet  pickles  chopped; 

GREEN  TOMATO  MINCE. 

8  pounds  green  tomatoes;  1  cup  citron; 

1  pound  seeded  raisins ;  3  pounds  light  brown  sugar : 

1  pound  currants ;  1  cup  chopped  figs ; 
Piece  of  butter,  (size  of  an  egg)  ;       1  tablespoon  salt; 

1  tablespoon  cloves ;  1  tablespoon  pepper  ; 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon ;  1  nutmeg ; 
Juice  of  2  oranges  and  grated  1  cup  vinegar. 

pr  -»l  of  one  ; 

Mrs.  Gates  Albert. 

Chop  tomatoes  fine  and  let  stand  half  day  with  salt.  Drain  off 
the  juice,  add  sugar  and  cook  \  hour.  Add  currants  and  raisins  lie- 
fore  cooking. 

Mrs.  U.  G.  H.  Miars. 


50  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


CURRANT  CONSERVE. 

Juice  of  2  oranges  and  the  grated  peel  of  1,  2\  quarts  ripe  cur- 
rants after  they  are  stemmed,  5  pounds  granulated  sugar,  1-J  pounds 
best  seeded  raisins.  Let  come  to  a  boil  slowly.  Cook  10  minutes  and 
seal.     One-half  cup  chopped  citron  may  be  added  before  cooking. 

WALDORF  SALAD. 

2  cups  tart  apples,  chopped ;  1  cup  celery,  chopped ; 

i  cup  sweet  pickles,  chopped ;  f  cup  sugar ; 

1  cup  nuts ;  Pinch  of  salt. 

Blend  all  together  and  serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Put  a  tablespoon 
of  salad  dressing  on  top  with  an  English  walnut  in  the  center.  Use 
bright  red  unpeeled  apples. 

FRUIT  SALAD. 

Dice  3  oranges,  1  banana,  1  cup  shredded  pineapple,  a  few  can- 
died cherries,  1  cup  white  grapes  cut  into  halves.  Sprinkle  1  cup 
granulated  sugar  over  top.  Serve  in  sherbet  glasses  with  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  whipped  cream  on  top,  and  a  candied  cherry  or  English 
walnut  in  the  center. 

STRAWBERRY  SALAD. 

One  quart  dark  red  strawberries,  washed  before  stemming.  Drain 
well,  add  1  cup  fresh  diced  pineapple  and  2  cups  powdered  sugar. 
Let  stand  on  ice  1  hour.  Put  1  dozen  fresh  marshmallows  in  warm 
water  and  wash  off  all  starch,  clip  fine  and  mix  with  the  fruit.  Serve 
in  sherbet  glasses  with  a  spoonful  whipped  cream  on  top,  with  a  whole 
strawberry  in  the  center. 

CUPID'S  SALAD. 

4  large  sweet  oranges ;  1  cup  powdered  sugar ; 

2  bananas;  1  cup  marshmallows  (clipped  fine). 
1  pint  strawberries; 

Cut  the  oranges  into  halves,  scoop  out  the  pulp  and  shred.  Cut 
the  strawberries  in  halves,  dice  the  bananas.  Add  the  marshmallows 
and  mix  lightly  with  a  fork,  take  a  sharp  knife  or  scissors  and  scal- 
lop orange  bowls.  Tie  together  in  pairs  with  baby  ribbon,  to  match 
the  other  decorations.    When  ready  to  serve  fill  with  fruit  and  put  a 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  51 


spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  top  with  a  strawberry  in  the  center. 
Place  on  salad  plates  between  each  couple. 

LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Shred  lettuce  fine.  Put  on  a  salad  plate,  put  chopped  apples  in 
the  center,  sprinkle  with  a  little  sugar.  Cover  top  with  mayonnaise 
and  chopped  nuts. 

Mrs.  Will  Sutton. 

POND  LILLY  SALAD. 

Arrange  the  dark  outside  lettuce  leaves  on  individual  plates. 
Slice  a  piece  from  the  large  ends  of  as  many  hard  boiled  eggs  as  re- 
quired, so  that  they  will  stand  on  the  lettuce.  From  the  tip  end  down- 
wards, with  a  sharp  knife  cut  the  white  of  each  egg  in  points,  as  one 
would  an  orange  skin,  letting  them  fall  apart  like  the  petals  of  a 
lily.  Remove  and  grate  the  hard  yolks.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  a 
little  mustard,  and  with  salad  spoon  or  fork  niix  in  some  salad 
dressing.  Fill  the  center  of  each  lily  with  the  grated  yolks,  and  from 
the  center  of  each  with  a  pointed  spoon  make  several  rays  of  mayon- 
naise dressing  to  simulate  pollen. 

MARSHMALLOW  SALAD. 

1  pound  blanched  almonds    (or       1  dozen  marshmallows ; 

English  walnuts)  ;  1  dozen  candied  cherries. 

\  dozen  macaroons ; 

Clip  all  rather  fine  with  scissors.     Put  in  a  vessel  and  set  aside. 

Dissolve  1  rounded  tablespoonful  granulated  gelatine  in  J  cupful 
cold  water.     Add  \  cupful  boiling  water  and  1  cupful  sugar. 

Whip  1  pint  of  cream  stiff,  add  gelatine  mixture.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  Add  the  above  mixture  and  beat  all  together  thoroughly 
until  well  mixed.     Set  aside  to  cool.     Cut  in  slices. 

Lillian  Redding. 

CHERRY  SALAD. 

1  pound  large  California  cherries ;     \  pound  shelled  hazelnuts  or  fil- 

2  tablespoons  Maraschino  syrup  ;  berts  ; 

1  cup  sugar ;  \  cup  orange  juice ; 

1  bottle  of  Maraschino  cherries;        1  cup  whipped  cream. 

Stone  the  cherries,  replace  each  stone  with  a  blanched  nut.  Put 
alternate  layers  of  red  and  white  cherries  in  sherbet  glasses.  Sprinkle 


52  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


with  powdered  sugar,  and  cover  top  with  whipped  cream  and  half 
an  English  walnut. 

PERFECTION  SALAD. 

1  envelope  powdered  gelatine;  1  cup  finely  chopped  sweet  pickles; 

J  cup  cold  water;  1  lemon,  juice  of; 

\  cup  mild  vinegar ;  \  cup  sugar ; 

1  pint  boiling  water ;  1  cup  celery  chopped  fine ; 

1  teaspoon  salt ;  \  can  pimentoes ; 

1  cup  chopped  nuts;  -|-  cup  white  grapes,  cut  in  halves. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  for  10  minutes.  Add  vinegar,  salt, 
lemon  juice,  and  sugar,  to  the  boiling  water  after  the  gelatine  has 
been  dissolved  in  it.  When  nearly  cool  add  other  ingredients,  and 
pour  in  individual  molds,  or  border  mold. 

EGG  CUPS. 

Hard  boil  as  many  eggs  as  are  needed,  cool  in  cold  water  until 
perfectly  cold.  Remove  shells  and  cut  a  tiny  slice  off  of  each  end 
Cut  the  eggs  in  two  sections,  leaving  the  large  end  \  inch  longer  than 
the  small  one.  Remove  the  yolks,  add  salt,  pepper  and  minced  ham 
or  other  meat,  and  blend  all  together  with  a  little  salad  dressing. 
Fill  the  small  end  first,  turn  the  filled  end  down  on  a  plate  and  fill 
the  large  end,  being  careful  to  keep  the  outside  free  from  the  yolk. 
Run  a  toothpick  through  the  center  and  put  the  tip  ends  together, 
making  cups  resembling  small  goblets.  Stick  a  small  sprig  of  parsley 
in  the  center  of  the  top. 

If  you  wish  your  eggs  to  peel  nicely  for  egg  cups,  pond  lily,  or 
tulip  salad,  put  to  cook  in  boiling  water,  shake  kettle  constantly  to  pre- 
vent eggs  from  settling  to  one  side. 

TULIP  SALAD. 

Hard  boil  the  eggs  as  above  mentioned,  fill  a  teacup  half  full  of 
warm  water,  color  with  damask  rose  or  any  desired  color.  Peel  egg 
and  drop  into  the  coloring.  Dry  on  blotting  paper,  split  the  small 
end  -in  fourths  §  of  the  way  down,  take  out  yolk,  mash  fine,  add 
enough  salad  dressing,  to  make  it  soft  enough  to  run  through  a  forc- 
ing bag.  Fill,  press  edges  together  leaving  a  small  opening  at  the  top 
to  resemble  tulips  as  near  as  possible. 

Fill  a  salad  plate  with  shredded  lettuce,  making  a  small  opening 
in  the  center  into  which  stand  the  eggs. 

Mvrtle  Ware. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  53 


SALAD  DRESSING. 

8  egg  yolks ;  1  cup  eider  vinegar ; 

1  heaping  tablespoon  corn  starch ;  1  cup  water : 

3  tablespoons  sugar;  1  teaspoon  salt; 

1  tablespoon  prepared  mustard ;  J  cup  butter. 

Boil  together  all  the  ingredients  except  the  corn  starch  and  eggs. 
Beat  eggs  well.  Dissolve  cornstarch  in  \  cup  rich  milk,  stir  eggs, 
milk,  and  starch  together.  Pour  the  boiling  liquid  over  the  latter. 
Return  to  sauce  pan  and  stir  well  until  it  simmers.  Remove  and  beat 
until  cold.  Add  1  cup  whipped  cream.  This  makes  1  quart  and  will 
be  enough  for  ordinary  occasions.  I  always  make  this  the  day  I  make 
angel  food  or  white  cake,  in  order  to  save  the  yolks.  This  will  keep 
one  week  in  a  cool  place. 

OIL  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Two  well  beaten  egg  yolks,  5  tablespoons  fresh  olive  oil.  \  tea- 
spoonful  Coolman's  mustard  and  enough  sharp  vinegar  to  suit  the 
taste.  Add  alternately  oil  and  vinegar,  a  few  drops  at  a  time  beat- 
ing well  all  the  while.    Add  a  pinch  of  salt  the  last  thing. 


s 

SANDWICHES 

1 

BOILED  HAM  SANDWICHES. 

Grind  as  much  boiled  ham  as  is  needed,  and  an  equal  amount  of 
hard  boiled  eggs.  The  eggs  should  be  boiled  one  hour.  Remove  the 
yolks,  rub  them  to  a  smooth  paste  with  1  tablespoon  sweet  cream  or  a 
little  stock,  add  the  ham,  blend  all  together,  and  spread  on  the  sand- 
wiches.   Place  lettuce  leaf  between. 

CHICKEN  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  or  grind  cold  boiled  or  roast  chicken,  1  or  2  hard  boiled  eggs, 
\  cup  finely  ground  celery  or  a  little  celery  salt,  blend  together.  Use 
enough  cream  or  salad  dressing  to  spread  well,  and  a  little  ground 
parsley  may  be  used  if  desired. 

CHEESE  AND  PIMENTO  SANDWICHES. 

1-J  pounds  fresh  cream  cheese.  1  box  pimentoes. 

A  pinch  of  salt. 
Grind  the  pimentoes  on  middle  sized  plate  of  food  chopper.  Put 
on  the  fine  plate  and  grind  cheese.  Add  salt,  mix  and  cream  well 
with  enough  rich  salad  dressing  to  make  the  right  consistency  to 
spread.  Add  pimentoes  and  barely  mix  through  the  cheese.  Use 
nice  home-made  bread,  cut  thin.  Cut  in  triangles  or  heart  shapes. 
Spread  \  sandwich  with  soft  butter  and  the  other  with  the  above  mix- 
ture. Press  together.  Wrap  each  one  in  waxed  paper  put  into  cov- 
ered vessel  until  ready  to  use. 

NASTURTIUM  SANDWICHES. 

Peel  and  grind  J  dozen  winnies.  Use  \  of  the  amount  of  ground 
cheese.  Mix  together.  Use  a  spoonful  of  tomato  catsup  or  salad 
dressing,  or  enough  of  boath  to  make  it  spread  well.  Salt  to  taste. 
Spread  between  slices  of  round  cream  bread  slightly  buttered.  Lay 
natsturtium  leaves  between  bread  also. 

BACON  SANDWICHES. 

Fry  1  dozen  slices  of  nice  lean  bacon.  Drain  on  wire  rest.  AYhen 
cold  grind  rather  coarse;  grind  1  stalk  of  celery  and  1  dozen  stuffed 
olives   and   3   hard   boiled   eggs.     Mix   all   together,   adding   enough 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  55 


mayonnaise  to  spread  well.    Put  with  a  lettuce  leaf  between  slices  of 
bread. 

SARDINE  SANDWICHES. 

One  fifteen  cent  box  of  sardines,  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  1  medium 
sized  dill  pickle,  1  tablespoon  prepared  mustard  or  salad  dressing. 
Mince  the  sardines  and  grind  the  eggs  and  pickle.  Blend  all  togeth- 
er.   Use  a  lettuce  leaf. 

TONGUE  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  tongue.  Use  \  teaspoon  celery  salt 
and  a  little  pepper.    Spread  on  a  little  prepared  mustard. 

NUT  SANDWICHES. 

Use  equal  parts  of  ground  cream  cheese  and  finely  chopped  Eng- 
lish walnuts  or  hickory  nuts.  Season  with  celery  salt,  and  moisten 
with  cold  cream  or  salad  dressing. 

CLUB  SANDWICH. 

Toast  a  slice  of  bread  and  butter  it.  On  one  half  put,  first,  a  thin 
slice  of  bacon  which  has  been  broiled  till  dry  and  tender,  next  a  slice 
of  the  white  meat  of  either  turkey  or  chicken.  Over  one  half  of 
this  place  a  circle  cut  from  a  ripe  tomato  and  over  the  other  half  a 
tender  leaf  of  lettuce.  Cover  with  a  generous  layer  of  Mayonnaise, 
and  complete  this  delicious  sandwich  with  the  remaining  piece  of 
toast. 

CRAB  SANDWICH. 

1  hard  boiled  egg  run  1  tablespoon  butter ; 

trough  a  sieve ;  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

\  can  deviled  crab; 

Moisten  the  sifted  yolk  of  egg  with  butter,  add  chopped  crab, 
and  lemon  juice  mixed  to  a  paste.  Spread  it  between  thin  slices  of 
buttered  bread,  put  two  together,  press  with  a  bread  knife,  and  cut 
into  fingers,  triangles,  or  any  desired  shape. 

SALMON  SANDWICHES. 

1  can  salmon ;  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice ; 
Dash  of  paprika  ;                                    \  cupful  boiled  salad  dressing ; 

2  tablespoons  parsley;  J  teaspoonful  salt. 

6  hard  boiled  egg  yolks;  .    . 


56  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


Drain  the  oil  from  salmon,  remove  all  the  skin  and  bones,  and 
mash  fish  fine.  Add  eggs,  press  through  potato  ricer,  then  salt,  lemon 
juice,  chopped  parsley,  paprika,  and  salad  dressing.  Spread  between 
slices  of  white  or  entire  wheat  bread. 

MOCK  CRAB  SANDWICHES. 

J  cupful  grated  cheese ;  4  tablespoons  creamed  butter ; 

\  teaspoon  salt ;  -J  teaspoon  paprika ; 

\  teaspoon  mustard ;  1  teaspoon  anchovy  paste ; 

1  teaspoonful  vinegar;  2  tablespoons  chopped  olives; 

To  cheese  add  butter,  salt,  paprika,  mustard,  paste,  vinegar  and 
chopped  olives.     Spread  between  rounds  of  white  bread. 

CHEESE  AND  OLIVE  SANDWICHES. 

Work  a  cream  cheese  until  smooth  and  creamy;  add  half  the 
quantity  of  olives  finely  chopped;  moisten  with  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. The  mixture  may  be  slightly  moistened  with  cream  and  seasoned 
with  salt  and  cayenne.     Spread  between  crackers. 

WALNUT  SANDWICHES. 

Blanch  and  chop  English  walnuts.  To  each  tablespoonful  of 
nuts  allow  \  tablespoon  cream  cheese.  Blend  together  and  spread  be- 
tween thin  slices  of  Graham  bread. 

EGG  SANDWICH. 

Four  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  very  fine.  Season  with  pepper 
and  celery  salt.     Moisten  with  salad  dressing. 

PEANUT  SANDWICHES. 

1  fifteen  cent  can  peanut  butter ;        1  cup  ground  figs ; 
1  cup  ground  raisins;  1  cup  dates  ground. 

Mix  all  together  and  if  too  stiff  to  spread  add  a  little  currant  or 
gooseberry  jelly.     Make  sandwiches  in  the  usual  manner. 

CHEESE  BUTTER  SANDWICHES. 

\  cup  butter ;  1  teaspoon  anchovy  paste  or  sauce ; 

6  tablespoons  dry,  sharp-flavored  2  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce ; 

cheese;  Slices  of  buttered  bread. 
1  teaspoonful  made  mustard; 

Anchovy  paste  can  be  bought  ready  made. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  57 


Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  cheese  (grated),  the  mustard, 
anchovy  and  Worcestershire  sauce.  Beat  until  well  blended,  and 
spread  between  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

COLD  WELSH  RAREBIT. 

Makes  fine  filling  for  sandwiches. 

DRIED  BEEF  SANDWICHES. 

Make  the  same  as  bacon  sandwiches  using  finely  ground  dried 
beef  instead  of  bacon. 

PINEAPPLE  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  a  small  sponge  cake  in  slices,  spread  them  with  grated  pine- 
apple and  whipped  cream  over  which  a  \rery  little  sugar  is  sifted. 
Press  the  two  slices  together.  Sun  made  red  raspberry  jam  may  be 
used  instead  of  the  pineapple.     Serve  with  ice  cream. 

ANGEL  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  angel-food  cake.  Spread  one-half  of  sandwich 
with  thick  whipped  cream  and  the  other  with  sun-made  strawberry 
jam.     Serve  with  pineapple  sherbet. 

CHOCOLATE  SANDWICHES. 

Melt  2  squares  grated  bitter  chocolate,  add  2  tablespoons  of 
cream,  stir  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  add  enough  powdered  sugar  to 
make  the  right  consistency  to  spread.  Spread  on  thin  slices  of  Ma- 
deira cake,  or  sun-shine  wafers. 

LOVERS'  DELIGHT. 

Place  a  slice  of  canned  pineapple  on  a  small  plate ;  cover  it  with 
a  slice  of  ice  cream  half  an  inch  thick  and  over  it  put  another  slice 
of  the  fruit.  Decorate  each  cake  with  a  bit  of  stiffly  whipped  cream 
and  place  a  cherry  in  the  center  of  it.  If  desired,  the  pineapple  slices 
and  the  ice  cream  may  be  cut  into  heart  shapes  with  a  tin  cutter  be- 
fore they  are  put  together. 


1 

PUDDINGS  AND 
SAUCES 

s 

SUET  PUDDING. 


1  cup  suet  chopped  fine 

1  cup  molasses; 

\  cup  brown  sugar ; 

1  cup  milk; 

3  cups  flour; 

1  tteaspoon  soda ; 

1  cup  raisins; 


1  teaspoon  salt  (scant)  ; 

teaspoon  ginger; 

teaspoon  clones; 

teaspoon  spice; 

nutmeg ; 

teaspoon  cinnamon; 
1  cup  of  figs  or  dates. 


Steam  \\  hours  and  serve  with  Foamy  Sauce. 

Foamy  Sauce. 

One  pint  new  milk,  J  cup  butter,  and  1  cup  sugar  boiled  together. 
Pour  over  2  well  beaten  yolks  and  1  tablespoon  corn  starch  dissolv- 
ed in  \  cup  cold  milk  beaten  with  the  egg.  Return  to  the  fire,  and 
cook  slowly,  stirring  well  until  it  thickens.  Then  beat  the  whites 
stiff  and  pour  the  custard  over  them,  beating  well.  Flavor  with  lemon 
and  vanilla. 

ADMIRAL  DEWEY  PUDDING. 


1  pint  toasted  bread  crumbs 
1  cup  milk; 


cup  brown  sugar; 
well  beaten  eggs; 
cup  suet; 
cup  raisins ; 
cup  soft  prunes ; 


cup  figs; 
cup  flour; 
teaspoon  cinnamon; 
nutmeg ; 
teaspoon  salt; 
scant  teaspoon  soda ; 
cup  nut  meats. 


Soak  prunes  \  hour  in  warm  water,  dry  and  chop  fine.     Mix  all 


together,  and  steam  \\  hours. 


PLUM  PUDDING. 


1J  cups  suet; 

1  cup  brown  sugar; 

1  cup  sweet  milk; 

1  teaspoon  soda ; 

1  tablespoon  hot  water ; 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

1  cup  currants; 


2  cups  raisins; 

1  cup  molasses; 

\  teaspoon  salt ; 

Juice  and  rind  of  1  orange; 

\  nutmeg; 

5  cups  flour ; 

1  cup  chopped  almonds. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  59 


Mix  together  fruit,  suet,  molasses,  add  sugar,  salt  and  spices, 
then  the  orange,  mix  soda  and  hot  water,  add  to  milk,  then  add  the 
milk  and  flour  to  the  mixture.  Divide  into  five  one-pound  baking 
powder  cans,  cover  closely  and  steam  four  hours.  Will  keep  indefi- 
nitely. When  ready  for  use,  steam  until  very  hot.  This  pudding  is 
nice  steamed  in  a  round  cream  bread  pan.      Also 

Sauce  for  Plum  Pudding. 

Beat  one  cupful  of  butter  to  a  cream.  Add  sugar  gradually,  two 
cupfuls  in  all,  beating  until  very  light.  Add  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff,  dry  foam,  arrange  on  a  flat  glass  dish  and  grate  a 
little  nutmeg  over  it, 

FIG  PUDDING. 

1  pound  figs,  cut  fine  ;  3  eggs ; 

1  cup  milk ;  1  cup  chopped  suet ; 

\  cup  molasses ;  1  teaspoon  soda  ; 

%  teaspoon  nutmeg ;  J  teaspoon  salt ; 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon ;  4  cups  flour. 

1  cup  brown  sugar; 

Mix  figs,  suet  and  molasses,  add  spices  and  salt,  dissolve  soda  in 
one  spoonful  of  hot  water  and  add  to  milk;  then  add  milk  and  flour 
to  the  first  mixture,  then  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Divide  into  four  one- 
pound  baking  powder  cans,  cover  with  closely  fitting  lids,  and  steam 
three  hours.  Serve  very  hot  with  Foamy  Sauce.  Fig  puddings  can 
be  kept  indefinitely,  and  can  be  reheated  in  twenty  minutes  if  sliced 
while  cold  and  then  steamed. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING. 

Make  a  batter  same  as  for  rhubarb  pudding.  Stir  one  quail 
cleaned  and  washed  huckleberries  through  the  dough.  Put  into  but- 
tered pan  and  steam  one  hour.     Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

HONEY-COMB     PUDDING. 

1  cup  buttermilk ;  i  cup  finely  chopped  suet ; 
\  cup  sugar ;  1  well  beaten  egg ; 

|  cup  molasses ;  1  cup  raisins ; 

2  cups  flour ;  1  teaspoon  soda  ; 
\  teaspoon  cinnamon ;                            Little  nutmeg. 

Salt  to  taste,  steam  1  hour  and  serve  with  vanilla  sauce. 


60  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


GRAPE-NUT  PUDDING. 

1  cup  grape  nuts ;  1  cup  brown  sugar ; 

1  pint  new  milk ;  1  cup  raisins ;  \ 

1  tablespoon  butter;  ^  cup  nuts; 

1-J  liberal  cups  flour ;  \  teaspoon  soda ; 

2  whole  eggs;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder; 
Pinch  of  salt ;                                         Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Boil  1  cup  of  milk,  pour  over  grape  nuts.  Add  butter,  let  stand 
till  cool.  Add  the  remaining  cup  of  milk.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  and 
sugar.  Add  to  other  ingredients.  Sift  soda  and  baking  powder  in 
the  flour,  and  stir  into  mixture.  Lastly,  fold  in  well  beaten  whites 
of  eggs  and  bake  or  steam.     Serve  with  carmel  sauce. 

Mrs.  Willard  Rauch. 

DATE  PUDDING.    No.  1. 

3  well  beaten  eggs ;  1  cup  English  walnuts ; 

1  cup  sugar ;  1  cup  dates  chopped  fine ; 

2  tablespoons  flour;  1  scant  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Dredge  nuts  and  dates  with  1  spoon  flour,  add  the  baking  pow- 
der, and  mix  all  together.  Bake  20  to  30  minutes.  Flavor  with 
lemon,  serve  with  whipped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla. 

DATE  PUDDING.    No.  2. 

^  pound  stoned  dates;  ^  teaspoon  salt; 

J  pound  beef  suet ;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder ; 

1  cup  flour;  1  cup  bread  crumbs; 

J  cup  sugar  ;  2  eggs ; 

1  teaspoon  ground  ginger ;  f  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon ; 

Chop  the  dates  and  suet  finely  or  run  them  through  a  meat  chop- 
per. Add  all  the  ingredients  and  moisten  with  the  eggs  and  milk. 
Turn  into  greased  molds  and  steam ;  if  in  one  large  mold,  four  hours ; 
if  in  small  molds,  two  hours. 

PRUNE  PUDDING. 

Stone  and  mince  1  pound  of  stewed  prunes.  Beat  stiff  the  whites 
of  four  eggs,  add  three  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  small  portion  at  a 
time  to  the  eggs,  whip  the  prunes  in,  small  portions  at  a  time,  mix 
thoroughly,  put  in  baking-pan,  bake  twenty-minutes.     Cover  the  top 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


61 


for  ten  minutes,  take  off,  cool  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  with 
any  flavoring  desired.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


BAKED  CUSTARD. 


1  pint  rich  milk; 
f  cup  sugar; 


3  well  beaten  eggs ; 
A  little  nutmeg. 


Stir  all  together,  pour  in  a  pan  and  place  in  a  larger  pan  with 
enough  water  to  reach  half  way  up  the  pan.  Bake  in  slow  oven  until 
it  will  cut  with  a  knife,  but  do  not  let  boil  or  it  will  be  watery.  Fla- 
vor with  nutmeg.    It  is  best  cooked  in  a  fireless  cooker. 

Eliza  Buckland. 


CARMEL  PUDDING. 


1  cup  soft  white  sugar; 

1  egg; 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch 
J  teaspoon  salt ; 


1  pint  milk; 

1  tablespoon  butter; 

1  cup  sugar; 

-§  teaspoon  vanilla  extract. 


Pour  sugar  into  a  frying  pan  and  melt,  shaking  the  pan  and  stir- 
ring constantly  so  that  it  will  not  burn.  Heat  the  milk  and  blend  it 
with  the  sugar.  Add  the  corn  starch,  and  egg,  let  simmer  and  pour 
into  mold  and  serve  with  cold  cream.     Flavor  with  with  vanilla. 

Olive  Gill. 

CHOCOLATE  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 


1  cup  pearl  tapioca ; 
1  quart  of  new  milk; 
|  cup  butter ;  (J  cup  Bakers 
cocoa ; 


Yolks  of  two  eggs ; 

1  cup  sugar 

^  teaspoon  vanilla. 


Wash  tapioca  in  cold  water,  drain  well,  soak  several  hours  in  1 
pint  of  the  milk.  Pour  the  remaining  pint  of  the  milk  into 
a  half  gallon  crock,  add  sugar,  butter  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Let  come 
to  the  boil,  drop  in  the  soaked  tapioca.  Set  where  it  will  keep  hot  for 
15  minutes.  Then  let  come  to  the  boil,  beat  the  egg  yolks  well,  add  1 
tablespoon  cream  or  milk,  beat  together.  Stirring  well  remove  from  fire 
and  cover  for  a  few  minutes.  The  heat  of  the  tapioca  will  cook 
the  yolks,  put  in  large  mold  or  fill  sherbet  glasses  nearly  full.  Set 
away  to  cool.  "When  ready  to  serve  heap  with  sweetened  whipped 
cream  flavored  with  vanilla.     Sprinkle  chopped  nuts  over  the  top. 


62  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


This  makes  a  delicious  as  well  as  an  attractive   dish.     The   cocoa 
should  be  sifted  with  the  sugar  before  pouring  it  into  the  milk. 

Mrs.  H.  F.  Emick. 

TAPIOCA  CUSTARD  PUDDING. 

One  quart  scalded  milk,  1  cup  tapioca,  1  cup  sugar,  3  eggs,  J  tea- 
spoon salt,  1  tablespoon  butter.  Soak  tapioca  one  hour  in  cold  water  to 
cover,  drain,  add  to  milk,  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  transparent ; 
beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar  and  salt,  pour  on  gradually  the  hot  mix- 
ture, turn  into  a  buttered  dish,  add  butter,  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in  a 
slow  oven. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

3  cups  new  milk ;  1  cup  of  sugar ; 

1  cup  of  separated  cream ;  A  pinch  of  salt. 

1  fresh  cocoanut,  ground  fine ;  Flavor  with  lemon  or  orange. 

1  envelope  of  gelatine; 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  J  cup  of  cold  milk  10  minutes,  put  the  re- 
maining milk  into  a  sauce  pan.  When  scalding  hot  stir  in  the  gela- 
tine and  when  dissolved,  add  the  sugar  and  flavoring.  Cool  and  when 
it  begins  to  set  beat  in  the  cream  which  has  been  well  whipped, 
sprinkle  cocoa-nut  in  lightly  while  beating,  set  on  ice  to  harden. 
Serve  in  desert  dishes  with  a  few  whole  strawberries  on  top  or  dot 
with  sun  made  strawberry  or  raspberry  jam,  or  serve  plain. 


4-12-12. 


SURPRISE  PUDDING. 


1  cup  light  brown  sugar;  1  cup  raisins; 

1  cup  sweet  milk ;  1  tablespoon  butter ; 

1  heaping  cup  flour ;  1  teaspoon  soda ; 

1  cup  figs ;  Flavor  with  lemon  and  vanilla. 

1  teaspoon  soda ; 

Steam  1  hour  and  serve  hot  with  carmel  sauce. 

Mrs.  Harmon  Barber,  Muncie,  Indiana. 

PRUNE  WHIP. 

1-J  pounds  prunes ;  3  egg  whites ; 

1  cup  nut  meats ;  1  cup  sugar. 

Cook  prunes  until  tender,  cool  and  remove  pits.  Cut  into  small 
bits.  Add  nuts  and  fold  in  well  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  until  eggs 
set.     Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  63 


BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING. 

Butter  thin  slices  of  light  bread.  Place  in  pan  and  pour  custard 
over  it  made  the  same  as  baked  custard.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  on 
top  and  bake  a  light  brown.  Do  not  have  oven  too  hot.  A  cup  of 
nuts  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Mary  Parker  Pond. 

CHOCOLATE  BREAD  PUDDING. 

The  plain  bread  puddings  may  be  improved  by  adding  raisins, 
nuts,  dates,  or  chocolate ;  this  chocolate  bread  pudding  is  especially 
appetizing. 

Two  cupfuls  of  scalded  milk,  one-quarter  cupful  of  sugar,  1  egg 
one-eighth  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one  cupful 
of  bread  crumbs,  three-quarters  square  of  chocolate  and  one-half 
cupful  of  broken  nut  meat. 

Soak  Bread  crumbs  in  milk  half  an  hour.  Melt  chocolate  over 
hot  water,  add  half  of  the  sugar  to  the  chocolate,  also  enough  milk 
to  pour.  Add  to  crumbs  and  milk,  salt,  vanilla  and  eggs  slightly 
beaten.  Nuts  may  be  used  if  one  wishes.  Serve  hot  with  sauce 
or  whipped  cream. 

RHUBARB  PUDDING. 

One  and  one-half  cups  thick  sour  cream;  J  cup  sugar;  1  egg;  -| 
teaspoon  soda;  2  cups  flour;  salt  to  taste.  Stir  up  the  batter  as  one 
would  for  drop  dumplings.  Spread  half  the  batter  in  pan,  put  in  1 
pint  finely  chopped  rhubarb,  press  down  into  dough  with  -J  cup 
sugar  and  1  tablespoon  flour  mixed.  Spread  on  the  remaining  dough  and 
steam  or  bake  in  stove  or  fireless  cooker.  The  latter  is  preferable. 
Serve  with  sweetened  cream. 

Mrs.  Rufus  Redding. 

FLOAT. 

1  quart  new  milk ;  1  heaping  cup  sugar ; 

6  egg  whites ;  6  egg  yolks. 

Put  milk  in  a  large  flat  pan  or  sauce  pan  while  it  is  coming  to  the 
boil.  "Whip  the  whites  stiff,  when  boiling  well  drop  the  whites  on  in 
spoonfuls.  When  they  puff  up  turn  and  cook  on  the  other  side.  Take 
up  on  a  platter,  drain  milk  back  in  the  sauce  pan,  beat  yolks  and 
sugar  together.  Add  1  tablespoon  milk  to  them,  beat  again,  stir  iuto 
boiling  milk  until  it  thickens,  but  do  not  let  boil  or  it  will  curdle. 


64  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


Flavor  and  pour  in  large  fruit  or  pudding  dish.     Put  the  whites  on 
top  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

COFFEE  CREAM. 

3  eggs  ;  S  cup  strong  coffee ; 

1\  cups  milk ;  \  cup  sugar ; 

1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine ;     1  cup  whipped  cream. 

Make  a  custard  by  cooking  the  eggs  and  milk  in  a  double  boiler 
till  they  coat  the  back  of  a  spoon  and  stir  while  the  mixture  is  cook- 
ing. Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  coffee  for  ten  minutes,  and  add  to  the 
custard  which  should  be  hot  enough  to  dissolve  the  gelatine.  Put  in 
the  sugar  and  stand  the  mixture  aside  to  cool  while  the  cream  is  be- 
ing whipped;  add  the  cream  when  the  first  mixture  is  nearly  cold, 
stir  in  thoroughly  and  turn  into  a  wet  mould.     Chill  before  serving. 

PINEAPPLE  TRIFLE. 

1  envelope  Plymouth  Rock  1  cup  granulated  sugar ; 

gelatine  (soaked  in)  -J  1  cup  separated  cream,  before  it  is 
cup  cold  water,  fifteen  whipped ; 

minutes;  1  cup  boiling  water; 

1  cup  pineapple  juice ;  Juice  of  \  lemon. 

Juice  and  grated  peel  of  one  orange. 

One  can  of  shredded  pineapple  with  all  the  juice  pressed  out  and 
reserved  as  above  mentioned.  Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  soak- 
ed gelatine  and  heat;  stir  until  dissolved.  Put  in  sugar,  and  stir  well, 
add  all  the  other  ingredients  except  the  cream,  blend  together,  set  in 
a  cool  place  until  it  begins  to  congeal.  Whip  the  cream  (which  must 
be  ice  cold)  and  beat  it  into  the  gelatine  mixture  until  light.  Set  in 
a  refrigerator  to  harden.  Serve  in  sherbet  glasses  with  chopped  nuts 
over  the  top. 

JELLY  CREAM. 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  stiff;  then  beat  into  it  one  teaspoonful 
of  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  of  nicely  flavored  fruit  jelly.  Put  into 
a  wine-glass  and  garnish  with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

CHERRY  PUFFS. 

2  cups  flour ;  4  level  teaspoons  baking  powder ; 
1  egg  (or  none)  ;                                    ^  teaspoon  salt; 

1  cup  milk; 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


65 


Drop  batter  into  cups  with  layer  of  cherries,  then  a  layer  of  bat- 
ter, and  so  on  until  cups  are  full.  This  will  make  ten  or  twelve  cups. 
Steam  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.     Serve  with  cream. 

Lillian  Redding. 

CURRANT  PUFFS. 

Make  a  batter  same  as  for  rhubarb  pudding.  Make  alternate 
layers  of  dough  and  fresh  ripe  currants  crushed  with  a  little  sugar. 
Bake  in  ramequins  or  pudding  dish.  Serve  with  sweetened  cream  or 
foamy  sauce. 

Cherries  or  any  preferred  fruit  may  be  used  in  the  same  manner. 


PINEAPPLE  PUDDING. 


1  cup  tapioca; 
1  lemon,  juice  of; 
1^  cups  sugar; 


1  pint  can  pineapple  and  juice ; 

1  orange  peel  and  juice ; 

2  egg  whites. 


Soak  tapioca  over  night  or  half  day,  in  1  cup  cold  water  or  more. 
Drain  off  water  and  stir  it  into  1  cup  of  boiling  water  with  the  other  in- 
gredients. Cook  slowly  until  almost  clear.  Have  ready  the  well 
beaten  whites.  Eemove  from  fire  and  fold  in  whites.  Cool  on  ice 
and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 


RICE  PUDDING. 


\  cup  uncooked  rice ; 

1  quart  new  milk; 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter*; 


1  heaping  cup  sugar; 

2  eggs  well  beaten; 
Nutmeg  and  salt  to  taste. 


Mix  all  together  and  pour  in  pan  and  bake  in  slow  oven,  until 
rice  is  tender  and  the  milk  boiled  down,  to  right  consistency.  The 
rice  must  be  stirred  often  for  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Lizzie  Andrew. 

RICE  A  LA  CREME. 

One  cupful  of  rice,  half  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
gelatine,  four  tablespoons  of  boiling  water,  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  three 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla  extract,  half  a  cupful  of 
whipped  cream  or  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten.  Wash  the  rice  in  sev- 
eral waters  and  boil  it  quickly  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes. 
Drain,  add  the  milk  and  cook  slowly  until  the  rice  is  tender  and  the 
milk  absorbed.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  with  the  boiling  water  and  add 
it  to  the  rice  with  the  sugar.    When  cool  fold  in  the  whipped  cream  and 


66 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


vanilla,  pour  into  a  wet  mold  and  leave  in  a  cool  place  until  firm.    Turn 
out  and  serve  with  any  kind  of  cold  stewed  fruit. 

ANGEL  PUDDING. 


1  cup  granulated  sugar; 

Pinch  of  salt; 

Flavor  with  lemon  and  vanilla. 


1  rounding  tablespoonful 

of  gelatine; 
\  cup  cold  water; 
4  whites  of  eggs; 

Soak  gelatine  5  minutes  in  \  cup  cold  water,  then  set  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water  and  stir  until  all  is  dissolved.  Pour  in  \  cup  more  of  cold 
water,  stir  together.  Set  aside  to  cool  until  you  beat  the  whites  of 
eggs  stiff,  then  pour  gelatine,  before  it  begins  to  congeal,  over  the 
whites,  beating  rapidly  until  blended.  Add  sugar  slowly  and  beat 
until  almost  ready  to  set.  Pour  half  in  pan,  sprinkle  with  blanched 
almonds  or  other  nuts,  color  the  remaining  half  pink  and  pour  over 
the  white,  spread  smooth  and  set  on  ice.  Serve  in  slices  like  brick 
ice  cream.  Nice  served  with  crushed  strawberries  or  slice  of  ice 
cream  on  top.     Serve  angel  drop  cakes  with  it. 

Aimee  Ware. 

SPANISH  CREAM  PUDDING. 


1J  cups  granulated  sugar 
Flavor  with  vanilla. 


1  envelope  gelatine; 

3  eggs ; 

1  quart  new  milk ; 

Soak  gelatine  in  1  cup  cold  milk,  put  three  cups  milk  in  stew 
kettle,  let  come  to  a  boil  slowly,  pour  over  the  well  beaten  egg  yolks 
and  \  cup  of  the  sugar.  Return  to  fire,  cook  until  the  yolks  thicken. 
Pour  over  the  well  beaten  whites,  with  remainder  of  sugar,  beaten 
into  them,  mold  in  pudding  mould  with  cherries  and  nuts  sprinkled 
in  the  bottom.  When  cold  a  dainty  jelly  will  form  in  the  bottom  with 
custard  on  top. 

TAPIOCA  AND  GRAPE  JUICE  PUDDING. 

One  and  one-half  cups  grape  juice ;  \  cup  water ;  1^  cups  of  su- 
gar; \  cup  minute  tapioca;  pinch  of  salt;  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3 
eggs ;  juice  of  2  lemons. 

Soak  the  tapioca  for  15  minutes  in  the  \  cup  of  water.  Put  in  a 
double  boiler  and  add  the  sugar.  When  hot  add  the  grape  juice. 
Cook  until  the  tapioca  is  transparent.  Then  add  the  lemon  juice  and 
salt.  Lastly  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Serve  either  hot 
or  cold  with  whipped  cream. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  67 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT-CAKE. 

1  cup  sweet  milk ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder ; 

J  cup  butter;  2  teaspoons  sugar. 

i  teaspoon  salt; 

Mix  the  same  as  baking  powder  biscuits.  Roll  -J  inch  thick, 
spread  with  melted  butter,  fold  buttered  sides  together,  if  too  thick 
roll  slightly,  cut  out  like  biscuits  3^  inches  in  diameter.  Bake  in 
a  quick  oven,  serve  before  entirely  cold,  break  apart,  put  in  desert 
dishes  have  ready  some  fine  dark  red  strawberries  that  have  been 
crushed  and  sprinkled  heavily  with  sugar,  put  plenty  of  strawber- 
ries between  and  on  top  of  biscuits  and  serve  with  or  without  cream 

RASPBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  strawberry  shortcake  using  either  fresh 
or  canned  berries.     Serve  with  hot  vanilla  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 

APPLE  SNOW  NO.  1. 

Select  only  best  tart  cooking  apples,  use  barely  enough  water  to 
cook  them  well;  sweeten  to  taste,  run  through  a  potato  ricer, 
heat  again,  to  the  boiling  point,  and  to  one  quart  of  the  boiling 
pulp,  whip  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  let  stand  on  stove 
a  moment,  remove  and  if  desired  color  half  with  pink  fruit  coloring, 
when  cold  put  in  a  glass  dish  in  alternate  layers,  or  chill  and  serve  in 
sherbet  glasses.    Nice  served  with  roast  pork  or  goose. 

APPLE  SNOW  NO.  2. 

Make  a  soft  boiled  icing,  with  one  cup  sugar,  and  the  white  of 
one  egg,  put  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  in  a  dish  and  grate  enough 
tart  apples  in  to  make  one  pint  (this  must  be  done  quickly  or  they 
will  turn  dark)  whip  into  the  hot  icing  at  once,  flavor  with  a  little 
grated  orange  peel,  chill  or  not. 

Bess   Work. 

PEAR  JELLY. 

Drain  the  juice  from  one  can  of  pears,  put  it  into  a  quart  cup 
add  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  enough  boiling  water  to  make  J 
of  a  quart,  or  3  cups,  put  on  stove  and  heat  to  the  boiling  point,  add 
1  envelope  of  Plymouth  Rock  gelatine,  previously  soaked  in  1  cup 
of  cold  water  for  10  minutes,  stir  until  dissolved,  add  H  cups  of 
sugar  and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved,  flavor  with  a  few  drops  of  sweet 


68  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


anise,  when  cool  put  \  cup  or  more  into  the  bottom  of  a  border  pud- 
ding-mold. Cut  the  pears  in  small  heart  shapes,  or  in  round  balls 
with  a  potato  knife  made  for  cutting  small  potato  balls,  place  them 
in  the  bottom  of  the  mould,  set  on  ice  until  they  harden  in  the  jelly. 
Lay  in  more  of  the  pears  on  a  row  of  maraschino  cherries.  Pour  in 
the  remaining  jelly  (which  has  been  kept  milk  warm)  and  set  on 
ice  to  harden. 

Finish  filling  the  mould  with  a  Spanish  cream  pudding,  it  should 
be  milk  warm  when  poured  in,  color  a  dainty  pink  and  sprinkle  1 
cup  of  chopped  nuts  over  the  top  before  it  sets,  it  should  be  made 
the  day  before  serving,  invert  on  a  large  fancy  platter,  lay  a  towel 
over  it  wrung  out  of  hot  water  to  unmould  it. 


4-28-12. 


CRANBERRY  JELLY. 


1  quart  cranberries;  1  pint  water  (liberal). 

1  heaping  pint  granulated  sugar; 

Wash  the  berries  in  hot  soda  water,  rinse  and  put  in  an  aluminum 
or  granite  stew  pan.  Boil  to  mush,  stirring  well.  Run  through  double 
white  mosquito  bar  bag,  reheat  and  remove  from  fire.  Stir  in  sugar 
slowly,  and  stir  until  well  dissolved.  Pour  immediately  into  granite 
or  aluminum  mould.  Nice  molded  in  bread  pans  and  cut  in  heart 
shapes  with  whipped  cream  on  top.  Never  cook  sugar  with  the  berries 
as  it  turns  the  sugar  to  glucose  and  will  not  jell. 

BAKED  APPLES. 

(By  Request.) 

Select  good  baking  apples,  put  in  granite  pan  with  split  side 
up  in  \  inch  of  hot  water.  Bake  in  hot  oven  until  half  done,  take 
1  cup  light  brown  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  flour.  Blend  together,  dust 
over  tops,  put  bits  of  butter  between.  When  done  put  a  marshmal- 
low  in  the  center  of  each  and  let  them  brown. 

STEAMED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  peel  and  split  each  apple,  wrap  each 
one  in  dough  and  steam  until  the  apple  is  done  in  center.  Serve 
with   sweetened  cream. 

Baked  apple  dumplings  are  prepared  in  the  same  manner,  only 
they  are  baked  until  the  dough  is  done  and  then  nearly  covered  with 
lemon  sauce  and  finish  baking. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  69 


ORANGE  PUDDING 

2  large  oranges  and  grated  peel ;      2  cups  sugar ; 

1  lemon,  juice  of;  1  tablespoon  butter; 

1  quart  boiling  water;  4  tablespoons  corn  starch. 

3  eggs; 

Put  water,  butter  and  sugar  in  sauce  pan  and  when  boiling  hard 
add  the  corn  starch  dissolved  in  the  orange  juice  and  the  yolks  of 
eggs  well  beaten.  Pour  into  sauce  pan  and  stir  well  until  boiling 
point  is  reached.  Pour  into  a  pudding  mould  and  spread  the  well 
beaten  whites  with  \  cup  powdered  sugar  beaten  in  and  put  in  oven 
until  light  brown. 

ORANGE  BASKETS. 

Cut  out  a  piece  from  each  side  of  the  orange,  leaving  a  strip 
to  serve  for.  handle  over  the  top,  take  out  the  pulp,  and  mix  with 
chopped  pineapple  and  nuts,  also  candied  cherries.  Fill  the  shells 
and  put  on  spoonful  of  whipped  cream.  Pierce  a  hole  through  the 
handle  and  run  stems  of  a  few  violets  through  them,  also  sprinkle 
a  few  violets  over  the  plate. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

After  tart  apples  have  been  pared,  cut  into  halves  and  cored 
Ull  each  cavity  Avith  a  stiff  cream  made  by  rubbing  butter  and  sugar 
together ;  put  two  halves  together,  cover  with  rich  biscuit  dough 
and  bake.     Serve  with  vanilla  sauce. 

BROWN  BETTY. 

Put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  into  a  well  buttered  baking  dish ; 
on  the  crumbs  small  bits  of  butter ;  next  a  layer  of  apples,  cored  and 
sliced ;  with  sugar  and  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  Kepeat  this  until  the 
dish  is  full.  Add  one-half  cup  of  water;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

QUINCE  PUDDING. 

2  cups  flour ;  1  egg  ; 

\  teaspoon  salt ;  \\    cups  milk  ; 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

1  cup  quince  honey; 

Sift  together  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Beat  the  egg. 
add  to  the  milk  and  melted  butter  and  mix  these  with  the  dry  in- 


70  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 

gredients  to  form  a  stiff  batter.  When  well  mixed  add  the  quince 
honey  and  beat  well.  Turn  into  greased  baking  pan  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  about  half  an  hour.  Cut  in  squares,  and  serve  with 
sweetened  whipped  cream. 

PLUM  PUDDING  WITH  CHOCOLATE. 

1   envelope  of  gelatine ;  1  cup  seeded  raisins ; 

i  cup  cold  water;  leup  nuts  chopped; 

1^  cups  of  new  milk ;  1  cup  figs  chopped  ; 

1   cup  of  separated  cream ;  ^  cup  cocoa ; 

^  teaspoon  of  vanilla;  Pinch  of  salt. 
1  cup  of  sugar; 

Soak  the  gelatine  10  minutes  in  the  cold  water.  Put  the  milk 
in  a  double  boiler.  When  it  is  scalding  hot  pour  into  it  the  gelatine. 
Stir  until  well  dissolved.  Then  add  the  sugar  and  cocoa  which  have 
been  sifted  together.  Add  all  the  other  ingredients  except  the 
cream.  When  cool  whip  the  cream  stiff  and  fold  it  into  the  mixture. 
Pour  into  a  pudding  mold  and  set  on  ice  to  harden.  It  should  stand 
over  night  in  hot  weather. 

ANGEL  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

1^  cups  of  sugar ;  1  envelope  of  gelatine ; 

1  pint  of  cream;  i  doz.  stale  macaroons,  rolled; 

before  it  is  whipped;  1  doz.  marshmallows,  cut  fine; 

^  teaspoon  of  vanilla ;  -J  cup  candied  cherries ; 

^  cup  cold  water;  \  lb.  blanched  almonds,  chopped; 

\  cup  boiling  water ;  A  pinch  of  salt. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  10  minutes,  dissolve  it  in 
the  boiling  water.  Add  the  sugar  and  stir  well.  When  nearly  cold 
add  all  the  ingredients,  except  the  cream  which  should  be  whipped 
stiff  and  folded  in  just  before  the  mixture  begins  to  set.  Pour  into 
a  border  mold  lined  with  lady-fingers,  set  on  ice  to  harden.  Do  not 
unmold  until  ready  to  serve. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  71 


MEMORANDA 


8 

SAUCES  FOR 
PUDDINGS 

1 

BRANDY  SAUCE,  COLD. 

Two  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  oue 
wine-glassful  of  brandy,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  a  teaspoonful  of 
each.  Warm  the  butter  slightly,  and  work  it  to  a  light  cream  with 
the  sugar,  then  add  the  brandy  and  spices ;  beat  it  hard  and  set  aside 
until  wanted.  Should  be  put  into  a  mould  to  look  nicely,  and  serve 
on  a  flat  dish. 

BRANDY  OR  WINE  SAUCE  NO.  1. 

Into  one  cup  of  boiling  water  put  1  cup  of  sugar,  a  piece  of  but- 
ter as  large  as  an  egg  and  boil  a  moment.  Dissolve  1  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  corn  starch  in  warm  water,  stir  into  the  above.  Add  -J 
cup  raisins  and  boil  5  minutes.  When  cool  stir  in  J  cupful  of  brandy 
or  wine. 

RICH  WINE  SAUCE.    No.  2. 

One  cupful  of  butter,  2  of  powdered  sugar,  \  cupful  of  wine. 
Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream.  Add  the  sugar  gradually,  and  when 
very  light  add  a  little  at  a  time  the  wine,  which  has  been  made  hot 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg.  Place  the  bowl  in  a  basin  of 
hot  water,  and  stir  for  two  minutes.  The  sauce  should  be  smooth 
and  foamy. 

BRANDY  OR  WINE  SAUCE  No.  3. 

Take  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  of  powdered  sugar,  the  whites 
of  two  eggs,  five  teaspoonfuls  of  sherry  wine  or  brandy,  and  a  quar- 
ter of  a  cupful  of  boiling  water.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream, 
add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well  beaten,  and  then  the  wine  or  brandy. 
Place  the  bowl  in  hot  water  and  stir  until  smooth  and  frothy. 

ROSE  BRANDY. 

Gather  the  leaves  of  roses  while  the  dew  is  on  them,  put  them 
into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  and  when  the  bottle  is  full,  pour  in  the 
best  of  fourth  proof  French  brandy. 

It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  three  or  four  weeks,  and  may  be  fre- 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  73 


quently  replenished.     It  is  sometimes  considered  preferable  to  wine 
as  a  flavoring  to  pastries  and  pudding  sauces. 

SAUCE  FOR  PLUM-PUDDING. 

Cream  together  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  half  a  cupful  of  butter ; 
when  light  and  creamy,  add  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Stir 
into  this  1  large  cupful  of  hot  cream  or  rich  milk,  set  this  into  a  pan 
of  hot  water,  stir  well  until  it  thickens  like  cream,  but  do  not  le1 
it  boil.  Stir  into  this  one  wine-glass  of  brandy  or  wine,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt.     Beat  well.     Serve  warm. 

LEMON  BRANDY. 

When  you  use  lemons  for  punch  or  lemonade,  do  not  throw 
away  the  peels,  but  cut  them  in  small  pieces — the  thin  yellow  out- 
side (the  thick  part  is  not  good),  and  put  them  in  a  glass  jar  or  bot- 
tle of  brandy.    You  will  find  this  brandy  useful  for  many  purposes. 

ORANGE  BRANDY. 

Make  the  same  as  lemon  using  only  the  thin  outer  peel  of  orange. 

LEMON  SYRUP. 

Take  the  juice  of  twelve  lemons ;  grate  the  rind  of  three  lemons 
and  three  oranges,  let  it  stand  over  night ;  take  six  pounds  of  white 
sugar,  and  make  a  thick  syrup.  When  it  is  quite  cool,  strain  the 
juice  into  it,  and  squeeze  as  much  oil  from  the  grated  rind  as  will 
suit  the  taste.  For  future  use  put  in  securely  corked  bottles.  A 
tablespoonful  in  a  goblet  of  water  will  make  a  delicious  drink  on  a 
hot  day. 

RASPBERRY  SAUCE.   (FOR  PUDDINGS  AND  SPONGE  CAKE.) 

1  cup  red  raspberries;  White  of  1  egg; 

j  cup  pulverized  sugar ;  ^  cup  separated  cream. 

Whip  the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  sugar  and  whip  again,  beat 
cream  with  a  Dover  egg  beater  until  stiff.  Whip  the  two  together. 
Add  the  berries  crushed  and  whip  again.  Strawberries  or  peaches 
may  be  used  in  the  same  manner.  Nice  for  sponge  cakes  or  short- 
cakes. 

LEMON  SAUCE— FOR  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

1  pint  boiling  water;  lemon; 

\  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar; 

2  lemons,  juice  of;  1  heaping  tablespoon  corn  starch. 
1  egg  yolk  and  grated  peel  of 


74  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 

Boil  all  together  and  pour  over  dumplings  when  half  done,  if 
this  does  not  make  enough  sauce  for  a  large  family,  more  water  and 
corn  starch  may  be  added. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

1 J  cups  boiling  water ;  Juice  and  grated  peel  of  1  orange ; 

1  tablespoon  vinegar;  1J  cups  sugar; 

Juice  of  1  lemon,  and  grated  rind ;  1  tablespoon  butter ; 

1    dessert-spoon   corn   starch;  1  egg  yolk. 

Boil  the  water,  vinegar,  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  the  egg  yolks 
well,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  water  and  the  lemon  juice  to  the  well-dis- 
solved cornstarch.  Mix  with  the  eggs.  Pour  the  boiling  liquid  over 
them,  return  to  sauce  pan  and  let  come  to  the  boil,  stirring  constantly. 

VANILLA  SAUCE. 

1-J  cups  light  brown  sugar,  and  -J  cup  butter  creamed  well  to- 
gether; add  2  level  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  or  flour,  beat  well 
and  pour  over  1  pint  boiling  water.  Return  to  stove  and  let  boil. 
Serve  hot,  and  flavor  with  vanilla  and  lemon. 

CARMEL  SAUCE. 

1J  cups  light  brown  sugar.  Dry  melt  in  a  pan,  add  1J  cups 
boiling  water,  -|  cup  butter  and  a  liberal  pinch  of  salt.  Dissolve  1 
tablespoon  corn  starch  in  i  cup  cold  water,  add  to  the  syrup  and 
stir  well  until  done.    Serve  hot. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  75 


MEMORANDA 


76  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


MEMORANDA 


Good  bread  is  the  staff  of  life  and  no  pains  should  be  spared 
in  making  it.  Good  fresh  yeast  and  first-class  spring  and  winter 
wheat  flour,  blended  equally,  produce  best  results. 

Bread  should  never  be  set  to  rise  on  chairs  or  any  other  low 
place.  Make  a  box  3  feet  long,  1  foot  deep  and  1  foot  wide.  Nail 
the  bottom  of  it  to  the  wall,  at  one  side  or  behind  the  stove,  a  little 
higher  than  the  head.  It  should  be  supported  with  2  brackets.  Have 
a  door  hinged  at  the  top  or  hang  a  curtain  to  it.  This  makes  an  ideal 
place  for  bread  to  rise. 

Salt  rising  bread  requires  a  higher  and  steadier  temperature 
than  yeast  bread.  A  nice  way  is  to  put  it  in  the  warming  closet  or 
the  range  in  a  pint  can.  Set  in  warm  water,  cover  well  and  set  a 
lamp  under  it,  turned  high  enough  to  make  the  water  warm  enough 
to  bear  the  finger  in  comfortably,  or  hang  on  a  door  knob  (or  some 
other  convenient  place  in  the  same  manner),  placing  a  lamp  under 
it.  An  electric  pad  turned  at  low  heat  is  nice  for  raising  it  after  it 
is  in  the  pans. 

Never  use  old  wilty  potatoes  for  yeast.  New  ones  grated  are 
much  better.  Potatoes  should  be  cooked  one  baking,  and  grated  the 
next,  for  best  results.  Some  people  have  a  wrong  idea  when  they 
think  bread  cannot  be  made  from  new  potatoes,  for  they  are  prefer- 
able to  old  ones. 

DRY  YEAST. 

Put  1  cup  of  fresh  hops  and  6  cups  ooiling  water  in  a  granite 
stew  kettle,  steep  for  15  minutes  and  strain,  return  to  kettle'  and 
cook  with  it  6  medium  sized  potatoes.  When  done  mash  into  a  gal- 
lon crock,  add  1  cup  flour  and  pour  the  boiling  hop  and  potato  water 
over  it.  Beat  well  until  cool.  Add  1  cup  dry  yeast  well  soaked  (or 
2  cakes  yeast  foam)  f  cup  sugar  and  1  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Set 
in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  stirring  down  each  time  it  is  light,  until  even- 
ing. Then  add  \  cup  salt  and  enough  white  corn  meal  to  make 
a  batter  as  thick  as  for  corn  bread.  Let  set  until  the  next  noon, 
stir  in  enough  meal  to  make  coarse  rivels,  which  dry  more  quickly 

The  old  fashioned,  dry  yeast  is  fine  if  made  right,  hut  with  the  present 
high  price  of  corn  meal,  it  is  cheaper  to  "buy  it  ready  made.  Compressed  yeast 
is  hard  to  buy  fresh.  I  have  better  success  with  "Yeast  Foam."  One-half  cup 
of  dry  yeast  is  equal  to  1  cake  of  yeast  foam. 


78  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 

than  cakes.  Lay  a  thin  cloth  on  a  window  screen  and  put  it  where 
the  wind  will  blow  over  it,  but  do  not  put  it  in  the  hot  sun  or  let  it 
freeze,  as  either  is  fatal  to  the  yeast  germ.  One  tablespoonful  of 
ginger  makes  it  livelier. 

My  Mother's  Recipe. 

TO  START  BEER  YEAST. 

1  pint  mashed  potatoes ;  2  tablespoons  sugar ; 

1  quart  boiling  water ;  2  tablespoons  flour. 

1  tablespoon  salt ; 

At  noon  cook  enough  potatoes  to  make  1  pint  after  they  are 
mashed,  put  2  tablespoons  flour  into  a  \  gallon  crock.     Moisten  with 

1  spoon  warm  water,  add  the  hot  mashed  potatoes,  pour  over  all  1 
quart  boiling  water  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  until  the  flour 
is  well  scalded.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  cool  until  a  little  more 
than  milk  warm.  Stir  in  1  cake  yeast  foam,  which  has  been  previous- 
ly soaked  1  hour  in  \  cup  warm  water,  and  2  tablespoons  sugar. 
Stir  well,  cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  until  bed  time.  Then 
add  the  salt  and  stir  well.  If  the  salt  is  added  in  the  beginning  it 
will  check  fermentation,  but  should  be  added  before  retiring  to  pre- 
vent the  yeast  from  getting  sour.  Leave  a  crack  at  one  side  of  the 
lid  to  let  the  gases  escape,  which  prevents  it  from  getting  sour.  Sugar 
should  never  be  put  in  while  mixture  is  hot,  as  heat  kills  the  germ 
which  aids  fermentation. 

WHITE  BREAD  FROM  BEER  YEAST.     No,  1. 

2  potatoes  the  size  of  large  egg       2  tablespoons  sugar; 

after  they  are  peeled;  2  tablespoons  flour; 

1  quart  boiling  water;  1   tablespoon   salt. 

Put  the  flour  into  a  gallon  crock  or  granite  pan,  moisten  with 
warm  water,  grate  the  raw  potatoes  onto  it  very  quickly,  to  prevent 
them  from  turning  dark.  Stir  well  and  add  the  boiling  water,  set 
on  back  of  stove  until  it  simmers,  remove  and  heat  until  milk  warm. 
Then  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  beer,  which  was  made  the  previous 
day.  Stir  all  together  (reserve  a  quart  can  full  for  the  next  baking) 
add  1  pint  of  warm  water  and  thicken  to  about  the  consistency  of 
pancake  batter.  Set  in  a  warm  place  for  about  one  hour,  or  until 
light,  then  take  equal  parts  of  Winter  and  Spring  wheat  flour,  which 
should  be  warmed  slightly,  add  a  lump  of  lard  the  size  of  a  hen  egg, 
a  pinch  of  soda  and  2  more  teaspoons  salt.  Mix  to  a  medium  stiff 
dough,  take  out  on  a  bread  board,  knead  lightly  and  quickly  for 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  79 


10  or  15  minutes,  or  until  it  is  smooth  and  firm  and  will  not  stick 
to  the  hands.  Put  into  a  greased,  tall  vessel,  double  its  bulk.  Let 
rise  until  nearly  full.  Knead  slightly,  using  as  little  flour  as  pos- 
sible, put  back  in  the  vessel  and  let  rise  double  its  bulk  this  time. 
Knead  into  loaves,  put  into  small  pans  and  let  double  their  bulk, 
bake  1  hour  or  more,  with  a  temperature  a  little  higher  than  for 
Angel-food  or  according  to  the  kind  of  a  thermometer  used,  as  dif- 
ferent makes  vary  a  little.  This  temperature  applies  to  the  old  style 
Home  Pride  range.  When  putting  dough  to  rise,  always  grease  the 
top  slightly  with  melted  lard  to  prevent  a  crust  forming  on  the  top 
and  cover  with  waxed  paper.  When  done  grease  with  fresh  butter 
and  leave  uncovered  until  cold. 

This  recipe  is  for  large  families.  The  beer  should  be  used  two 
or  three  times  a  week  to  prevent  the  germ  from  dying.  It  can  be 
kept  lively  by  adding  1  teaspoon  sugar  to  the  yeast  each  morning 
for  the  germ  to  feed  upon.  When  a  larger  quantity  is  desired  the 
recipe  may  be  enlarged. 

I  always  set  this  in  the  morning  at  6  o'clock  and  have  my  bread 
done  in  five  or  six  hours.  Never  set  it  over  night  or  add  raw  flour  to 
the  beer.  It  is  always  best  to  add  a  pinch  of  soda  to  all  yeast 
bread  when  ready  to  mix.    This  keeps  it  sweet. 

YEAST  BREAD  FOR  SMALL  FAMILIES. 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes ;  2  tablespoons  sugar ; 

1  pint  boiling  water ;  2  tablespoons  flour ; 

1  cake  yeast  foam;  1  tablespoon  salt. 

Put  the  flour  into  a  \  gallon  crock  and  add  enough  warm  watei 
to  make  a  thin  paste.  Run  the  hot  potatoes  through  a  potato  ricer 
onto  the  paste  (which  makes  about  1  cup  full)  Beat  together  then 
add  the  boiling  water,  stir  well,  set  on  the  stove  a  moment  to  simmer, 
cool  until  tepid.  Add  the  yeast  foam  which  has  been  previously 
soaked  1  hour  in  \  cup  of  warm  water  and  the  sugar.  (This  should 
be  prepared  during  the  evening  meal.)  Cover  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise.  If  light  at  bed  time,  add  the  salt,  stir  well,  and  let 
stand  until  morning.  Then  scald  two  more  tablespoons  of  flour  with 
1  pint  boiling  water  and  beat  until  free  from  lumps.  If  the  yeast 
set  the  evening  before  has  become  very  cold,  it  should  be  poured 
into  the  above  mixture  while  it  is  warm  enough  to  hold  the  fingers 
in  comfortably.  Add  2  spoons  of  sugar  and  1  of  salt,  stir  again. 
This  makes  the  entire  mixture  about  milk  warm.  Add  enough  flour 
to  make  a  sponge  about  the  same  consistency  as  for  bread  No.  1, 
let  rise  until  light.    Then  mix  and  knead.     Bake  in  the  same  manner 


80  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


as  bread  No.  1.  I  use  this  method  when  baking  only  once  a  week, 
it  will  make  4  or  5  medium  sized  loaves.  Before  mixing  the  dough 
add  1  or  2  cups  of  warm  water  to  make  the  desired  amount  of  bread. 

CREAM  BREAD. 

Make  yeast  in  the  evening  same  as  for  bread  No.  2.  In  the 
morning  scald  1  pint  new  milk  pour  over  2  tablespoons  flour.  Beat 
until  free  from  lumps,  when  a  little  warmer  than  milk  warm  add  2 
tablespoons  of  sugar  and  1  of  salt.  Stir  in  enough  winter  wheat 
flour  to  make  a  soft  batter.  When  light  add  1  cup  warm  water,  mix, 
let  rise,  and  bake  in  same  manner  as  for  bread  No.  2. 

Parker  House  rolls  may  be  made  from  this  same  dough.  Add  8 
pinch  of -soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of  warm  water  before  mix 
ing.    Use  winter  and  spring-wheat  flour  in  equal  parts. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Set  yeast  in  the  evening  and  make  a  sponge  the  following  morn- 
ing just  as  you  would  for  bread  No.  2,  only  using  brown  sugar  in- 
stead of  white,  and  -J  teaspoonful  soda,  the  other  ingredients  remain- 
ing the  same.  Sift  the  flour  and  warm  it  a  trifle.  Mix  a  little  softer 
than  No.  2.  Let  double  its  bulk  only  once  before  making  into  loaves 
as  it  contains  less  starch  and  is  apt  to  fall  if  it  becomes  too  light. 
Bake  in  the  usual  way. 

WHOLE-WHEAT  BREAD. 

May  be  made  the  same  as  graham  bread,  using  whole  wheat  flour 
instead  of  graham. 

RYE  BREAD. 

Make  yeast  same  as  bread  No.  2,  using  1  tablespoonful  of  sugai 
and  1  of  molasses,  ^  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Use  1  part  winter  wheat 
and  2  parts  rye  flour.  Make  into  long  slim  loaves  and  gash  across 
the  top  slightly  before  baking.  Use  enough  warm  water  to  make  the 
desired  amount  of  dough.    Mix  a  little  stiffer  than  other  breads. 

Flavor  with  caraway  seeds  or  extract. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

1  cup  rye  flour;  \  cup  brown  sugar; 

2  cups  graham  flour  sifted ;  2  cups  butter  milk ; 

1  cup  corn  meal ;  \\  teaspoons  soda ; 

2  eggs  well  beaten ;  1  scant  teaspoon  salt ; 
\  cup  soft  butter ;                               A  little  nutmeg. 

\  cup  Dove  brand  molasses ;  Caraway  seeds  or  not. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  81 


1  cup  raisins  or  figs  and  \  cup  nuts  chopped  improves  it.     The 
soda  should  be  added  to  the  last  cup  of  flour.    Steam  for  \\  hours. 

SALT  RISING  BREAD. 

1  tablespoonful  white  corn  meal ;  1  teaspoon  sifted  flour ; 
J  teaspoon  sugar;  Pinch  of  soda. 

\  cup  new  milk; 

Put  all  into  a  pint  bowl  or  fruit  jar  except  the  milk,  heating 
it  scalding  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Pour  it  over  the  ingredients 
in  the  bowl,  stir  until  milk  warm.  (This  must  be  made  early  in  the 
evening).  Set  the  bowl  into  a  larger  vessel,  with  enough  warm 
water  to  reach  nearly  as  high  as  the  batter  in  the  bowl.  Set  it  in 
the  warming  closet  of  the  range  until  the  next  morning,  and  set  a 
lamp  under  it  to  keep  the  water  hot  enough  to  bear  the  fingers  in  it. 
When  light  put  into  the  small  part  of  a  double  boiler  and  add  1^ 
cups  warm  water  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  enough  flour  to  make 
a  batter  as  for  yeast  bread.  Fill  the  lower  part  of  double  boiler 
with  warm  water.  Set  to  raise  in  same  manner  as  before.  When 
light  scald  one-half  cup  of  flour  with  1  cup  scalding  milk.  Cool,  add 
1  tablespoon  lard  or  butter  and  1  tablespoon  salt,  also  a  little  more 
sugar  and  a  pinch  of  soda.  Let  rise  again.  When  light,  mix  soft 
as  can  be  handled  and  form  into  loaves.  Put  into  greased  pans  and 
\grease  the  top  with  melted  butter,  set  this  pan  into  a  larger  one 
with  a  little  warm  water  in  it,  or  put  on  top  of  the  warming  closet. 
Bake  when  double  its  bulk.  The  temperature  should  be  a  little 
higher  than  for  yeast  bread. 

Mrs.  Sam  Wearley. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD. 

1  egg  beaten;  \\  cups  graham  flour; 

1-J  cups  new  milk;  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

2  cups  bran;  der; 

\  cup  chopped  nuts ;  2  tablespoons  soft  butter ; 

\  cup  each  of  figs  and  raisins ;  \  teaspoon  of  salt. 

4  tablespoonsful  molasses; 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner,  put  in  a  round  cream  bread  pan  and 
steam  1^  hours. 

Myrtle  Ware. 

YEAST  BISCUITS. 

When  making  your  yeast  bread  reserve   1   pint   sponge,  add  \ 
cup  lard  or  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  mix  stiff 


82  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


as  bread  dough,  let  rise  the  second  time.  Pinch  off  in  bits  the  size 
of  .a  hen  egg,  and  place  to  rise  in  deep  tins.  Let  the  bulk  double 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

1  cup  new  milk;  \  cup  white  butter; 

2  cups  bread  sponge;  J  cup  sugar; 

1  desert  spoon  salt ;  Pinch  of  soda. 

When  making  bread  reserve,  before  it  has  risen,  2  cups  of  the 
sponge  that  has  been  prepared  for  the  bread.  Add  other  ingredients 
to  it,  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  light.  Mix  softer  than  for 
bread.  Let  the  dough  rise  until  nearly  double  its  bulk.  Knead  down 
slightly,  let  double  its  bulk  again,  invert  on  floured  bread  board,  do 
not  knead,  sprinkle  with  flour,  roll  nearly  \  inch  thick,  cut  out  with 
cutter  3  inches  in  diameter.  Pull  in  oblong  shape,  butter  and  fold 
together  placing  \  inch  apart  in  a  pan.  Let  rise  until  very  light  and 
bake.  May  be  warmed  over  after  several  days  old  by  placing  in 
slow  oven  a  few  minutes.     This  makes  three  dozen. 

BUNS. 

Make  same  as  Parker-house  rolls,  cut  the  same  size  leaving 
them  round,  or  cut  in  2-inch  squares  and  tuck  corners  under  until 
they  become  round,  flatten  out  \  inch  thick,  when  placing  in  the  pan. 
This  is  the  baker's  method  of  cutting  them  and  does  away  with  the 
scraps  left  when  using  a  cutter.  The  tops  should  be  greased  with 
melted  butter  when  put  to  rise  and  when  done. 

CINNAMON  ROLLS. 

2  cups  bread  sponge ;  Level  teaspoon  salt ; 
■J  cup  sugar ;  Pinch  of  soda. 

\  cup  butter; 

Reserve  the  sponge  before  it  has  risen.  Mix  the  dough  the 
same  consistency  as  for  Parker  house  rolls.  Let  it  rise  the  second 
time,  invert  on  floured  bread  board.  Roll  \  inch  thick,  cut  in  strips 
1  inch  wide  and  2  inches  long.  Warm  a  board  or  pan,  lay  a  piece  of 
muslin  on  it,  dust  it  with  flour,  place  the  rolls  on  it  1  inch  apart, 
cover  with  a  tea  towel  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  until  double 
the  bulk.  Drop  into  hot  fat  and  fry.  Roll  in  powdered  sugar  and 
cinnamon.    Cool  on  a  fine  wire  rest. 


THE  WEAL  COOK  BOOK 


S3 


FRUIT  ROLLS. 


1^  cups  bread  sponge ; 

i  cup  sugar ; 

J  cup  butter; 

1  teaspoon  salt ; 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

1  well  beaten  egg; 


\  cup  new  milk; 

\  cup  English  currants 

\  cup  raisins; 

Pinch  of  soda; 

\  of  a  nutmeg. 


Mix  the  same  as  Parker-house  rolls,  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place 
until  double  its  bulk,  then  knead  well,  form  into  rolls  four  inches 
long  and  a  little  smaller  than  a  broom  handle,  lay  cross-wise  in  a 
pan  barely  touching  each  other.  Let  rise  to  double  the  size,  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven.  When  done  ice  each  roll  across  the  center  with 
melted  fondant. 


SWEET  RUSKS. 


f  cake  yeast  foam; 
1^  cups  new  milk ; ; 
1  egg  and  1  white; 
^  cup  sugar ; 


\  cup  white  butter; 
1  teaspoon  salt ; 

A  little  nutmeg  and  a  pinch  of 
soda. 


Soak  the  yeast  in  J  cup  warm  water  for  \  hour.  Scald  milk, 
pour  it  over  1  tablespoon  flour,  moistened  with  warm  milk  to  pre- 
vent lumps.  Cool  milk  until  tepid.  Add  sugar  and  yeast  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  soft  batter.  Let  stand  over  night  in  a  warm  place. 
In  the  morning  dissolve  soda  in  \  cup  hot  water  and  stir  into  it.  Add 
other  ingredients  and  a  little  warm  flour,  stir  in  batter  and  let  rise 
again.  When  light  mix  soft  and  let  rise  double  its  bulk.  Turn  on 
floured  bread  board,  roll  and  cut  same  as  buns.  Let  stand  until  very 
Jight  and  bake.  May  be  made  in  the  morning  and  baked  before  ev- 
ening if  desired. 


84  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


MEMORANDA 


s 

BISCUITS  AND 
MUFFINS 

SODA  BISCUITS. 


3  cups  winter  wheat  flour ; 

1  cup  buttermilk; 

1  scant  teaspoon  salt; 


1  heaping  tablespoon  lard ; 

\  teaspoon  soda ; 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder ; 


Put  2\  cups  sifted  flour  into  dough  pan.  Make  hole  in  the  cen- 
ter, into  which  pour  the  buttermilk.  Add  salt.  With  the  tips  of  the 
fingers  make  a  soft  batter  as  for  pancakes,  then  add  the  lard  and 
when  blended  with  the  batter  add  the  remaining  J  cup  of  flour  and 
baking  powder.  Knead  it  as  lightly  as  possible,  to  a  medium  stiff 
dough. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS. 


1  cup  sweet  skimmed  milk,  or 
\  cup  new  milk  and  \  water ; 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 


1  heaping  tablespoon  soft  lard ; 
\  teaspoon  salt ; 
3  cups  flour. 


Mix  as  for  soda  biscuits,  handling  as  little  as  possible.    Use  only 
best  winter  wheat  flour. 


EGG  BISCUITS.     No.  1. 


f  cup  sweet  milk ; 

1  teaspoon  sugar ; 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 


2-J  cups  flour; 

2  level  tablespoons  butter ; 

\  teaspoon  salt,  liberal; 

2  well  beaten  eggs; 

Beat  eggs  well,  add  the  soft  butter  and  beat  well.  Add  the 
milk,  sugar  and  salt  and  2  cups  of  flour.  Blend  it  lightly  with  Bak- 
er's whisk  or  wire  egg  beater.  Add  baking  powder  to  the  remaining 
^  cup  of  flour,  and  fold  in  lightly.  Drop  in  spoonfuls  one  inch  apart 
on  a  buttered  pan.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  ten  minutes. 

EGG  BISCUITS.    No.  2. 

3  cups  flour ;  1  egg  well  beaten  ; 
2  level  tablespoons  butter ;  1  cup  sweet  milk ; 

1  teaspoon  salt;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  in  the  same  manner  as  egg  biscuits  No.  1. 


Winter  wheat  flour  should  be  used  for  biscuits. 


86  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


KNEADED  BISCUITS. 

3  cups  flour;  1  teaspoon  salt; 

1  cup  milk  ;  1  teaspoon  sugar ; 

J  cup  butter  or  lard ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt  all  in  the  flour.  Pour 
in  milk,  add  shortening,  and  mix  well.  Turn  out  on  board  and  knead 
for  5  minutes,  ,  using  as  little  flour  as  possible.  Roll  ^  inch  thick, 
cut  in  squares  with  a  sharp  knife.  Gash  2  times  across  the  top,  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  for  15  minutes. 

TWIN  BISCUITS  FOR  LUNCHEON. 

Use  recipe  for  baking  powder  biscuit,  using  J  cup  butter  in- 
stead of  lard.  Roll  dough  -J  inch  thick,  spread  one-half  with  melted 
butter,  double  the  unbuttered  end  over,  roll  slightly  again.  Use 
cutter  as  shown  on  front  page.  Bake  in  quick  oven.  Open  and 
spread  with  red  raspberry  jam  and  whipped  cream  or  fresh  crushed 
strawberries. 

GRAHAM  BISCUITS. 

1  cup  sweet  milk ;  1  teaspoon  sugar ; 

J  cup  soft  butter;  2  cups  graham  flour,  or  enough  to 

2  teaspobns  baking  powder ;  make  soft  dough. 
i  teaspoon  salt; 

Cut  out  and  bake  the  same  as  other  biscuits. 

LAXATIVE  BISCUITS. 

1  egg  well  beaten ;  1  cup  graham  flour ; 

2  dessert  spoons  Orleans  molasses ;   1-|  cups  bran ; 

1  cup  rich  sweet  milk ;  -|  teaspoons  salt ; 

1  tablespoon  butter;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Sour  milk  may  be  used  instead  of  sweet  milk,  by  using  a  liberal 
J  teaspoonful  soda.  Dr.  Wm.  A.  McConnell. 

DIXIE  BISCUITS. 

Sift  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  with  3  cups  win- 
ter wheat  flour,  and  |  tespoonful  salt,  put  in  dough  pan,  rub  1  table- 
spoonful  of  lard  lightly  into  it,  put  1  egg  white  into  a  cup.  Beat  until 
light,  pour  into  it  §  cup  sweet  milk,  pour  over  the  flour,  mix  lightly 
with  a  fork,  to  a  soft  dough,  handle  as  little  as  possible,  cut,  butter 
and  fold,  same  as  Parker-house  rolls.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  87 


QUEEN  OF  MUFFINS. 

J  cup  butter;  3  cups  flour; 

1  cup  sugar ;  3  teaspoons  baking  powder ; 

2  eggs  well  beaten;  1  scant  cup  milk. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  gradually  the  sugar,  then  the  eggs.  Sift 
the  flour  and  baking  powder  together  thoroughly  and  add  alter- 
nately with  the  milk  to  the  first  mixture.  Bake  in  hot  buttered  gem 
pans  twenty-five  minutes. 

TWIN  MOUNTAIN  MUFFINS. 

5  cup  butter;  3  cups  flour; 

}  cup  sugar ;  2  tablespoons  baking  powder ; 

1  egg  well  beaten;  1  cup  milk. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  gradually  the  sugar,  then  the  egg.  Sift 
the  flour  and  baking  powder  together  thoroughly  and  add  to  the  first 
mixture,  alternately  with  the  milk.  Bake  in  hot  buttered  gem  pans 
twenty-five  minutes. 

RICE  MUFFINS. 

1\  cups  flour;  \  teaspoon  salt; 

\  cup  rice ;  1  cup  milk  ; 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder ;  2  eggs  well  beaten. 
\  cup  melted  butter; 

Sift  together  thoroughly  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Add 
the  rice,  working  in  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers,  and  gradually  the 
milk,  egg  and  butter.  Butter  muffin  rings,  place  in  a  buttered  pan 
and  fill  two-thirds  full  with  the  mixture.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes.  The  same  mixture  may  be  baked  in 
gem  pans. 

OATMEAL  MUFFINS. 

1  cup  warm  cooked  oatmeal;  3^  teaspoons  baking  powder; 

3  cups  flour ; ;  1  teaspoon  salt ; 

1  cup  milk;  2  eggs  well  beaten; 

\  cup  sugar ;  1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

Prepare  and  cook  in  the  same  manner  as  rice  muffins. 


88 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


CORN  MUFFINS. 


1  egg,  well  beaten ; 

1  scant  teaspoon  salt ; 

2  teaspoons  sugar; 
\  teaspoon  soda ; 


1J  cup  thin  sour  cream; 

1  cup  corn  meal ; 

f  cup  flour; 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 


Sift  in  the  flour  and  fold  in  last  of  all.  Drop  in  gem  pans  and 
bake.  This  makes  8.  Sweet  cream  and  baking  powder  can  be  used 
instead  of  the  sour  cream  and  soda,  or  1  cup  buttermilk  and  1  heap- 
ing tablespoon  of  butter  instead  of  sour  cream. 

WHOLE- WHEAT  MUFFINS. 


1  egg  well  beaten ; 

1  cup  sweet  milk; 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 


1  heaping  tablespoon  soft  butter; 

2  teaspoons  sugar; 
1  teaspoon  salt. 


To  the  above  add  1^  cups  whole  wheat  flour,  and  mix  as  for 
corn  muffins. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS. 


1  cup  sour  cream; 

1  egg  well  beaten; 

1  teaspoon  salt; 

1  tablespoon  Orleans  Molasses 


|-  teaspoon  soda; 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1^  cups  graham  flour. 


J  cup  butter; 

i  cup  sugar; 

legg; 

1  cup  huckleberries ; 


HUCKLEBERRY  MUFFINS. 

If  cups  flour; 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder; 

\  teaspoon  salt ; 

1  cud  sweet  mill 


x-    — 7 

cup  sweet  milk. 


Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  until  creamy,  add  the  egg  well  beaten, 
then  the  berries.  Next  add  the  milk  and  lastly  the  flour,  baking 
powder  and  salt  sifted  together.  Bake  in  greased  muffin  pans  about 
20  minutes. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  89 


MEMORANDA 


1 

GRIDDLE  CAKES  AND 
CORN  BREAD 

s 

INDIAN  GRIDLE  CAKES. 


1  cup  flour ; 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter; 

\  teaspoon  sugar. 


1  cup  Indian  meal; 

2  eggs; 

\  teaspoon  salt ; 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder ; 

Put  meal  into  a  mixing  bowl,  and  pour  enough  scalding  milk 
over  it  to  make  a  thin  mush.  When  cold  add  the  flour  and  enough 
cold  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Add  eggs,  sugar,  salt  and  butter, 
beat  until  full  of  bubbles.    Bake  on  a  well-greased  hot  griddle. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

1  cup  white  flour,  \\  cups  whole  wheat  flour,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 
i  teaspoonful  salt,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  If  cups  milk,  3  tea- 
spoons baking  powder. 

Stir  in  all  the  flour  except  the  last  \  cup,  into  which  the  baking 
powder  should  be  sifted,  fold  in  lightly. 

ONE-EGG  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 


3  teaspoons  baking  powder; 

1  egg; 

2  cupfuls  milk. 


3  cupfuls  flour; 

1  teaspoon  salt ; 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter; 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients,  separate  the  egg,  and  add  to  flour  the 
milk  and  beaten  yolk.  Beat  thoroughly,  add  the  melted  butter  and 
white  of  egg,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  at  once.  If  preferred, 
sweet  milk  and  baking  powder  may  be  substituted  for  the  sour  milk 
and  soda. 

BREAD  PANCAKES. 


1  cupful  bread  crumbs  (soaked  in) 
1  pint  sour  milk; 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter; 
1  teaspoon  salt; 


1  level  teaspoon  soda ; 

2  eggs,  well  beaten; 

Enough  flour  to  make  a  medium 
stiff  batter. 


WAFFLES. 

2  cups  flour;  1  cup  milk; 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder ;  2  eggs ; 

\  teaspoon  salt;  1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  91 

Sift  together  thoroughly  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Add 
gradually  the  milk  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten  until  thick, 
then  add  the  butter  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Fry  on  a  hot.  well  greased  waffle  iron.     Serve  with  maple  syrup. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

1  cup  grated  corn;  H  cups  milk;  1  cup  flour;  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder ;  1  teaspoon  melted  butter ;  2  eggs ;  1  teaspoon  salt.  Fry  in 
hot  lard. 

OORNMEAL  PANCAKES. 

f  cups  of  white  flour;  1^  cups  of  corn  meal; 

1  pint  of  sour  milk ;  1  egg  yolk ; 

1  tablespoon  sugar ;  Pinch  of  salt ; 

Add  to  the  above  mixture  melted  butter,  the  white  of  1  egg  and 
|  teaspoon  soda  in  a  little  water. 

Mrs.  R.  G.  Culbertson,  Mitchell,  S.  D. 

SELF-RAISED  BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

1  quart  of  lukewarm  water,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses.  Into 
this  stir  enough  of  the  self-rising  or  prepared  buckwheat  flour  to 
make  a  thin  batter.  The  molasses  is  put  in  to  give  them  a  nice  brown 
color  in  cooking,  and  not  to  sweeten  them,  as  some  might  suppose. 
The  advantage  of  this  prepared  flour  is  that  it  is  not  necessary  to 
set  them  over  night,  as  they  are  ready  to  bake  as  soon  as  mixed. 
This  flour  can  be  obtained  at  any  grocery;  also  wheat  flour  for  wheat 
pancakes,  which  comes  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

1  quart  of  lukewarm  water;  1  cake  yeast  foam  soaked; 

1  cupful   of  flour;  1  tablespoon  brown  sugar. 

To  this  add  enough  buckwheat  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Let 
them  stand  over  night  to  rise,  and  in  the  morning  dissolve  J  spoon- 
ful of  soda  in  -|  cupful  of  lukewarm  water,  and  stir  this  into  the 
batter,  then  fry  quickly. 

PANCAKES. 

2  eggs ;  1  level  teaspoon  soda; 
1  pint  of  sour  milk ;                              Pinch  of  salt ; 
Enough  flour  to  make  a  1  teaspoon  sugar. 

stiff  batter; 

Fry  on  a  hot  griddle. 


92 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


CORN  PONE. 


1  pint  new  milk; 

1  pint  butter  milk ; 

2  cups  flour; 

5-|  cups  corn  meal; 
2  eggs  beaten ; 
J  nutmeg; 


J  cup  of  butter ; 

1  tablespoon  N.  0.  molasses 

1  tablespoon  sugar; 

1  teaspoon  soda; 

1  teaspoon  salt ; 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 


Boil  the  new  milk,  pour  it  over  1  cup  of  the  meal,  add  butter, 
sugar  and  molasses,  beat  until  cold,  dissolve  the  soda  in  the  sour 
milk  and  pour  into  the  above  mixture,  add  eggs,  stir  all  well,  add  the 
remaining  meal,  flour  and  baking  powder,  fold  in  lightly.  Steam  or 
bake  1  hour  or  more. 


TIP-TOP  CORN-BREAD. 


2J  cups  corn  meal ; 
\  cup  flour; 
2  cups  new  milk; 
1  egg  well  beaten; 


\  cup  soft  butter; 

1  teaspoon  salt; 

2  teaspoons  sugar; 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


Stir  2  cups  of  the  meal  in  the  milk  and  egg,  add  sugar  and  salt. 
Rub  butter  and  flour  together,  dust  a  little  over  bottom  of  well- 
greased  pan.  Add  the  rest  to  the  batter,  mix  baking  powder  in  the 
remaining  -J  cup  of  meal,  stir  in  quickly.  Drop  in  pan  and  bake  in 
hot  oven. 


BUTTERMILK  CORN  BREAD. 


cup  buttermilk; 
cup  sour  cream; 
egg  well  beaten; 
scant  teaspoon  soda; 


2J  cups  corn  meal; 
1  teaspoon  salt; 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder; 

2  teaspoons  sugar; 


Add  baking  powder  and  soda  to  last  \  cup  of  meal,  stir  in  and 
bake  immediately. 


SOUTHERN  HOE-CAKE. 

Put  1  pint  boiling  water  into  a  dough  pan,  1  teaspoonful  sugar, 
1  teaspoonful  salt,  stir  in  enough  corn-meal  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Moisten  the  hands  in  cold  water,  and  form  into  thin  flat  cakes.  Bake 
on  griddle,  or  drop  into  well  greased  pan  and  bake. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Cunningham. 


THE  WEAL  COOK  BOOK  93 


MEMORANDA 


PLAIN  PIE  CRUST. 

5  cups  flour  (winter  wheat)  ;  1  heaping  cup  lard; 

1  scant  cup  cold  water;  1  level  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Chop  flour  and  lard  well  together  with  round  chopping  knife. 
Add  salt.  Mix  in  a  flat  pan.  Pour  water  around  over  top,  shake 
well.  Finish  mixing  with  a  fork.  Press  dough  together  in  a  roll 
about  4  inches  in  diameter.  Do  not  knead.  Place  on  one  end  of  the 
bread  board,  and  slice  off  in  inch  slices  or  enough  to  make  one  crust. 
The  bottom  crust  should  be  kneaded,  or  made  from  what  is  trimmed 
off  the  edges  of  pies,  but  the  top  crust  must  never  be  kneaded  if  one 
wishes  it  to  be  nice  and  flaky.  This  is  as  rich  as  any  one  should  eat, 
but  if  a  richer  crust  is  desired  use  1  cup  less  flour,  and  J  less  of  water. 

SWEET  CREAM  PIE  CRUST. 

Sift  3  cups  flour  and  \  teaspoonful  of  salt  together,  use  enough 
separated  cream  to  make  a  medium  soft  dough.  Mix  same  as  other 
pie  crust.  This  is  recommended  for  those  who  cannot  eat  a  richer 
paste. 

PUFF  PASTE. 

1  quart  winter  wheat  1  pound  butter; 

or  pastry  flour;  A  little  ice  water. 

Pinch  of  salt ; 

All  the  utensils  used  should  be  ice  cold.  Chill  the  flour ;  divide 
the  butter  into  three  parts,  wash  and  pat  each  into  a  thin  oblong 
pat ;  wrap  two  of  the  butter  pats  in  a  napkin  and  place  them  between 
pans  of  cracked  ice ;  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers  work  the  other  but- 
er  pat  into  the  flour,  keeping  plenty  of  flour  between  the  butter  and 
the  fingers ;  add  ice  water,  using  as  little  as  possible  to  make  a  smooth 
paste ;  toss  the  paste  on  the  floured  board,  knead  just  enough  to  form 
a  ball  shape ;  pat  and  roll  out  one-fourth  inch  thick,  keeping  paste 
a  little  wider  than  long  and  corners  square ;  lay  one  pat  of  the  but- 
ter on  the  paste,  dredge  very  lightly  with  flour;  fold  over  the  paste 
so  as  to  enclose  the  butter;  roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll;  pat  and  roll  out 
one-fourth  inch  thick ;  add  butter  and  roll  out  as  above.  After  all  of 
the  butter  has  been  added,  fold  and  roll  out  four  or  five  times;  the 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  95 


more  times  it  is  folded  and  rolled  out  the  more  air  will  be  enclosed. 
The  more  air  retained  in  the  paste  the  more  puffy  it  will  be.  The 
rolling  should  be  done  with  gentle  strokes  from  the  center  out.  As 
often  as  the  paste  becomes  a  little  soft,  place  it  in  a  napkin  between 
two  pans  of  cracked  ice  and  let  it  stand  until  thoroughly  chilled.  The 
pastes  should  be  ice  cold  when  put  into  the  oven.  Puff  paste  re- 
quires a  hot  oven,  the  greatest  heat  coming  from  the  bottom ;  turn 
frequently  that  it  may  rise  evenly ;  when  well  risen,  decrease  tem- 
perature of  oven. 

Puff  paste  should  be  used  for  pies,  patties,  vol-au-vents,  rissoles, 
cheese  straws,  tarts,  turnovers,  etc. 

MY  FIRST  CREAM  PIE. 

f  cup  soft  white  sugar ;  li  cups  thin  cream  or  rich  milk ; 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour;  Little  nutmeg. 

1  tablespoonful  butter ; 

Melt  butter  and  spread  over  bottom  of  crust.  Mix  sugar  and 
flour  together  and  put  on  top  of  melted  butter.  Pour  the  milk  over, 
grate  nutmeg  on  top,  and  bake  a  rich  brown.    Eat  warm. 

1870. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  PIE. 

With  a  dover  egg-beater  beat  until  stiff  one  cup  separated 
cream,  a  day  old,  add  \  cup  powdered  sugar,  beat  again,  add  lemon 
and  vanilla  flavoring.  Pour  into  a  pie  shell,  previously  baked.  Dec- 
orate top  with  Maraschino  cherries.  Set  in  ice  chest  until  ready  to 
serve. 

ORANGE  CREAM  PIE. 

2  scant  cups  rich  milk ;  1  tablespoonful  of  butter ; 

1  scant  cup  sugar ;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch ; 

2  egg  yolks;  Pinch  of  salt. 

Flavor  with  grated  orange  peel,  or  extract  of  orange.  Dissolve 
corn  starch  in  \  cup  of  warm  milk.  Add  beaten  yolks  to  milk  and 
beat  together.  Boil  \\  cups  of  milk  with  the  butter  and  sugar,  and 
beating  well,  pour  over  the  former.  Return  to  sauce  pan  and  let 
simmer.  Pour  in  baked  pie  shell.  Put  the  well  beaten  white  of  one 
egg  and  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar  over  the  top,  and  brown  in  cool 
oven. 


96  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


BANANA  PIE. 

Can  be  made  the  same  as  orange  cream  pie  by  using  the  banana 
flavor  or  1  large  crushed  banana  instead. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

2  cups  new  milk ;  2  large  or  3  small  eggs ; 

•J  cup  sugar ;  Little  nutmeg  and  pinch  of  salt. 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar  and  beat  again.  Pour  in  milk. 
Stir  well  before  pouring  into  crust.    Best  baked  in  a  fireless  cooker. 

COCOANUT  PIE. 

Prepare  same  as  for  orange  cream  pie.  When  ready  to  pour  in 
pie  shell,  add  -|  cup  shredded  cocoanut.  Beat  whites  of  2  eggs  stiff. 
Add  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  spread  on  top  and  sprinkle  with  shred- 
ded cocoanut.    Brown  in  cool  oven. 

ORANGE  PIE. 

Juice  of  one  large  orange,  and  grated  peel.  1  cup  sugar,  \  lem- 
on, 1  tablespoonful  butter,  2  level  tablespoonsful  of  corn  starch, 
yolks  of  2  eggs.  Dissolve  corn  starch  in  the  orange  juice,  add  the 
beaten  yolks.  Put  1^  cups  of  water  in  a  sauce  pan  with  the  sugar 
and  butter.  When  boiling  hot  pour  over  the  beaten  yolks  and  corn 
starch,  return  to  sauce  pan,  add  lemon  juice  and  let  simmer  until 
well  cooked.  Pour  into  pie  shell,  and  cover  top  with  beaten  whites 
and  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  brown  in  oven. 

LEMON  PIE. 

A  good  lemon  pie  is  made  the  same  as  orange  pie  by  using  1 
whole  lemon  and  grated  peel  and  omitting  the  orange. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  PIE. 

1  cup  brown  sugar;  1  tablespoonful  flour; 

1  tablespoonful  butter ;  Yolks  of  2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1  cup  rich  milk; 

Boil  butter,  sugar  and  milk  together.  Dissolve  flour  in  2  table- 
spoonfuls  warm  milk.  Add  yolks,  and  pour  the  boiling  milk  over 
them.  Return  to  sauce  pan  and  stir  well  until  it  simmers.  Pour  in- 
to pie  shell  previously  baked.  Cover  top  with  a  meringue.  Flavor 
with  vanilla. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


97 


PUMPKIN  PIE. 


4  cups  cooked  pumpkin; 
2  cups  sugar; 


4  eggs  well  beaten; 
2  cups  rich  milk. 


Select  a  first  class,  old  fashioned  sweet  pumpkin,  with  a  deep 
orange  colored  center.  Cut  a  hole  in  top  the  size  of  a  tin  cup.  Re- 
move seeds  and  stringy  part.  Put  into  a  pan  with  wire  rest  in  the 
bottom.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (wash  day  is  a  good  time),  about 
four  hours,  or  until  well  done.  Do  not  burn.  When  cool,  peel  and 
rub  through  a  fine  colander.    This  makes  three  medium  sized  pies. 

MINCE  PIES. 

8  cups  coarse  ground  cooked  beef ;  J  pound  ground  citron; 

16  cups  tart  apples  chopped ;  J  pound  English  currants ; 

3  cups  granulated  sugar;  1  pound  Oak  Leaf  raisins; 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar;  1  small  nutmeg  grated; 

8  cups  cold  water ;  1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  pep- 

3  oranges,  juices  of;  per; 

-|  cup  strong  boiled  cider  vinegar;  2  teaspoons  cinnamon ; 

1  cup  boiled  cider ;  2  teaspoons  all  spice ; 

Grated  peel  of  2  oranges;  \  teaspoon  salt. 

Select  a  nice  piece  of  beef  neck,  weighing  5  pounds  or  more. 
Salt  and  boil  as  for  pot  roast  (a  fireless  cooker  is  best  for  this). 
If  boiled  on  the  stove  cover  with  water  and  boil  nearly  dry.  When 
cold,  grind  fat  and  all  on  coarse  plate  of  meat  chopper.  Add  \ 
cup  chopped  suet.  Select  nice  tart  apples,  (Baldwins,  Greenings  or 
Bell-flowers  are  best).  Mix  all  together  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  A 
little  brandy  may  be  added  if  desired. 

This  is  my  own  tested  recipe  I  have  used  for  years. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 


1  heaping  tablespoon  cocoa ; 
f  cup  sugar ; 
Yolks  of  2  eggs. 


\\  cups  new  milk ; 

\  cup  butter; 

2  tablespoons  corn  starch ; 

2  egg  whites; 

Boil  the  milk  and  butter  together,  sift  the  sugar  and  cocoa  to- 
gether, and  stir.  Dissolve  corn  starch  in  -J  cup  of  the  milk,  then 
beat  yolks  and  mix  with  it,  Pour  into  the  boiling  mixture,  stir  un- 
til it  boils,  pour  in  a  pie  shell.  Cover  the  top  with  beaten  whites  and 
1  tablespoon  sugar.     Brown  in  the  oven. 


98  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 

VINEGAR  PIE. 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  spread  in  the  bottom  of  pie  crust,  1  heap- 
ing cup  of  brown  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour  blended  together.  Sprink- 
le it  lightly  over  the  butter.  Add  2  tablespoons  cider  vinegar,  pinch 
of  salt  and  a  little  nutmeg  to  1^  cups  boiling  water,  pour  in  crust 
and  bake. 

IMPROVED  VINEGAR  PIE. 

3  tablespoons  vinegar ;  2  tablespoons  flour ; 

1  tablespoon  butter;  1  egg  white; 

1^  cups  boiling  water;  Nutmeg  to  taste; 

1  egg  yolk;  Pinch  of  salt. 
1  heaping  cup  brown  sugar; 

Boil  sugar,  vinegar,  butter  and  water  together,  dissolve  the 
flour  in  a  tablespoon  of  water,  add  the  egg  yolk,  beat  well,  stir  in 
the  above  mixture  and  boil.  Beat  stiff  the  egg  white,  and  pour  the 
boiling  mixture  over  it.  Pour  into  an  unbaked  crust  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.     Serve  warm. 

CRANBERRY  PIE. 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  rich  paste,  blend  i  cup  flour  and  1  cup 
of  sugar  together  and  sprinkle  into  the  crust,  put  1  scant  layer  of 
berries  on  top  of  the  flour.  Pour  over  all  1  cup  boiling  water,  with 
a  small  pinch  of  salt  added,  put  on  top  crust,  pinch  edges  together 
well  and  bake  the  same  as  rhubarb  pie. 

Mrs.   W.   W.   Ross. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PIE. 

The  berries  should  be  cooked  and  cooled  before  making  into 
pies.  To  each  quart  of  berries  use  f  cup  of  sugar  and  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  vinegar,  while  cooking,  sprinkle  a  little  flour  into  the  pie  be- 
fore putting  on  top  crust,  bake  as  other  pies,  serve  cold  with  a  slice 
of  ice  cream  on  top. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  Reardon,  Marion,  Ind. 

Use  only  best  winter  wheat  flour  for  pastry;  for  puff  paste,  use  one  tea* 
spoonful  of  corn-starch,  to  each  cup  of  flour,  or  use  regular  pastry  flour,  roll 
puff  paste  with  a  beer  or  amonia  bottle,  filled  with  ice  water,  use  a  marble* 
slab,  or  a  tin  bread  board,  cooled  with  ice  water. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  99 


EARLY  APPLE  PIES. 

Select  good  tart  cooking  apples,  such  varieties  as  Red  Astra- 
khan, Yellow-transparent,  and  Duchess  of  Oldenburg.  Slice  thin, 
sprinkle  over  them  \  cup  sugar,  little  flour,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg 
or  spice.    Bake  in  a  rich  crust. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PIE. 

Take  green  tomatoes  that  are  barely  turning.  Slice  fine.  Press 
out  juice.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  f  cup  brown  sugar,  and 
the  tomatoes  in  a  sauce  pan.  Let  simmer  5  minutes.  Dissolve  1 
heaping  tablespoon  of  flour  in  1  tablespoon  strong  vinegar,  and  stir 
in  the  boiling  tomatoes.  Flavor  with  cinnamon,  spice  and  nutmeg. 
Cool  or  not  and  pour  in  crust.  Bake  with  top  crust  a  rich  brown. 
Ground  cherry  pie  can  be  made  the  same  way  with  the  ad- 
dition of  a  little  more  vinegar. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  PIE. 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  5  tablespoonfuls  water.  Butter  size  of  a 
walnut  and  boil  to  the  soft  ball  stage. 

(Part  2.) 
Yolks  of  2  eggs.  2  tablespoonfuls  flour.     \  pint  milk.     Stir  in- 
to syrup  and  boil  until  thick.    Put  into  shell  and  add  beaten  whites 
and  1  tablespoonful  sugar  over  top. 

Laura  Lucas 

RAISIN  PIE. 

i  cup  sugar ;  1  egg ; 

1  teaspoon  vinegar;  1  tablespoon  flour; 

I  cup  raisins ;  1  cup  boiling  water. 

Add  lump  of  butter  and  boil  until  thick. 

Laura  Lucas. 

APRICOT  PIES. 

Cover  1  pound  dark  red  dried  apricots,  3  inches  deep  with  boil- 
ing water;  soak  ^  day  where  they  will  be  almost  scalding  hot  (in 
fireless  cooker),  but  do  not  boil.  When  done  add  1  pt.  sugar,  and 
let  come  to  the  boil,  cool  and  run  through  a  colander.  Return  to 
fre  and  add  1  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  dissolved  in  2  of  warm 
water.  Add  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  to  the  starch  and  water; 
stir  into  apricots.  It  should  be  about  as  thick  as  whipped  cream. 
This  method  takes  the  sharp  strong  taste  from  apricots,  and  is  nice 
for  either  pies  or  sauce. 


100  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 

PINEAPPLE  PIE. 

1  grated  pineapple;  1  cup  separated  cream; 

J  cup  butter;  5  eggs. 

1J  cups  sugar; 

Whip  the  cream  and  white  of  eggs  stiff;  add  \  cup  of  the  sugar 
to  each,  beat  again,  add  the  other  \  cup  to  the  pineapple  and  egg 
yolks.  Add  the  whipped  cream  to  the  pineapple  and  yolks.  Beat 
well.  Lastly  fold  in  well  beaten  whites  and  bake  with  or  without 
top  crust. 

MOCK  ORANGE  PIE. 

Chop  enough  tart  cooking  apples  as  you  would  for  mince  pie. 
Put  into  pie  crust.  Grate  the  yellow  peel  from  1  orange  and  add 
to  the  juice  of  the  orange.  Pour  over  the  apples.  Add  liberal  J 
cup  sugar.    Put  on  top  crust  and  bake.    This  is  fine. 

APPLE  PIE. 

Prepare  same  as  mock  orange  pie,  omitting  the  orange,  or  ap- 
ples may  be  sliced  and  a  little  spices  and  butter  added. 

DRIED  APPLE  PIE. 

Stew  some  old  fashioned  dried  apples  until  '  tender  leaving 
enough  juice  to  cover  well,  sweeten  to  suit  the  taste.  Add  spice  and 
nutmeg  and  bake  with  a  rich  crust.    There  is  nothing  better. 

RHUBARB  PIE. 

Select  nice  tender  rhubarb.  Wash  and  dry  well,  cut  in  half 
inch  bits.  Put  1  tablespoonful  flour  in  bottom  of  crust.  Put  in 
a  layer  of  the  rhubarb.  Sprinkle  liberal  -J  cup  sugar  over  top.  Do 
not  use  any  water.  If  the  plant  is  old  it  should  be  peeled,  and  use 
a  little  more  sugar.  Wet  edges  of  bottom  crust  with  a  little  cold 
water  and  flour,  dissolved  in  it.  Put  on  top  crust,  press  edges  well 
with  the  hands.  Cut  off  crust,  and  crimp.  Insert  a  piece  of  maca- 
roni 2  inches  long  in  an  opening  in  crust,  to  allow  the  steam  to  es- 
cape, which  prevents  the  juice  from  running  out. 

This  method  should  be  used  in  making  any  juicy  fruit  pies. 

TO  CAN  GREEN  TOMATOES  for  winter  pies,  prepare  and  cook  same  as 
for  pies,  omitting  flour  and  spices.  Can  as  other  fruit.  The  spices  and  flour 
must  he  added  when  making  the  pies. 

Ice  cream  is  fine  served  with  all  herry  pies,  and  peach  pie. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  101 


FRESH  GOOSEBERRY  PIE. 

1  tablespoonful  flour ;  \  cup  sugar,  and  J  cup  boiling  water. 

Mix  sugar  and  flour  together,  and  put  ir>  the  bottom  of  crust. 
Fill  with  berries.  Pour  over  the  boiling  water.  Put  on  top  crust, 
and  bake  the  same  as  rhubarb  pie.  If  canned  berries  are  used  omit 
the  water. 

GREEN  CURRANT  PIE. 

Make  the  same  as  gooseberry  pie,  using  \  cup  of  water  in- 
stead of  -J. 

RIPE  CURRANT  PIE. 

Make  same  as  green  currant  pie,  omitting  the  water, 

PEACH  PIE. 


j 


\\  cups  crushed  peaches ;  \  cup  thick  cream ; 

J  cup  sugar;  Pinch  of  salt. 

\  cup  flour; 

Stir  all  together,  pour  into  pan  with  one  crust  and  bake.     Ban- 
ana or  other  fruit  pies  can  be  made  in  the  same  manner. 


102  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


MEMORANDA 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  103 


MEMORANDA 


104  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 

4  teaspoonfuls  of  a  liquid  equal  1  tablespoonful. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  a  liquid  equal  -J  gill  or  J  cup. 

■J  cup  equals  1  gill. 

2  gills  equal  1  cup. 

2  cups  equal  1  pint. 

2  pints   (4  cups)   equal  1  quart. 

4  cups  of  flour  equal  1  pound,  or  1  quart. 

2  cups  of  solid  butter,  equal  1  pound. 

\  cup  of  solid  butter  equals  J  pound,  4  ounces. 

2  cups  of  granulated  sugar  equal  1  pound. 

2-J  cups  powdered  sugar  equal  1  pound. 

2\  cups  of  brown  or  A  sugar  equal  1  pound. 

1  pint  of  milk  or  water  equals  1  pound. 

1  pint  chopped  meat  equals  1  pound. 
10  eggs  shelled  equal  1  pound. 

8  eggs  with  shells  equal  1  pound. 

2  tablespoonsful  of  butter  equal  1  ounce. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar  equal  1  ounce. 

4  tablespoonful  of  flour  equal  1  ounce. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter  equals  \  ounce. 

4  tablespoonful  of  butter  equal  2  ounces  or  -J  cup. 

In  measuring  for  the  recipes  in  this  book,  flour,  powdered, 
brown  and  A  sugar,  are  measured  rounding,  while  granulated  sugar 
and  butter  are  scarcely  level. 

The  cup  used  in  the  above  table  of  measurements,  is  the  stan- 
dard measuring  cup  in  general  use,  holding  one-half  pint.  One 
should  have  two  cups,  one  marked  in  thirds  and  one  in  fourths. 
Granulated  and  powdered  sugar  should  be  sifted  through  a  fine 
sieve,  while  brown  and  A,  or  soft  white  as  it  is  generally  called, 
should  be  rolled  before  using. 

If  new  milk  is  used,  dilute  one-half  with  cold  water.  Butter 
should  be  soft,  but  not  melted.  "White  butter  makes  whiter,  lighter, 
cakes ;  it  is  best  to  use  a  little  salt  in  cakes  made  without  butter. 

Always  sift  flour  once  before  measuring,  dip  the  flour  into  the 
cup  with  a  spoon  and  sift  the  baking  powder  through  the  last  cup 
of  flour  twice,  folding  in  lightly,  the  last  thing. 


LOAF  AND  LAYER 
CAKES 


ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE,  No.  1. 

J2  large  egg  whites  (or  1   heaping   cup   of  flour;   after  it 

13  small  ones)  ;  has  been  sifted; 

Ij  cups  granulated  sugar  1  level  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar; 

after  it  has  been  sifted;  Pinch  of  salt; 

1  heaping  teaspoon  corn  starch;  Flavor  with  lemon   and  vanilla. 

(If  pastry  flour  is  used  omit  the  corn  starch.) 

To  make  Angel  food  cake  successfully,  the  eggs  should  not  be 
less  than  4  or  5  days  old  in  the  summer,  and  should  be  kept  in  a  re- 
frigerator or  cellar ;  but,  in  the  winter  they  may  be  8  or  10  days  old, 
and  kept  cool  but  not  allowed  to  chill;  always  have  oven  the  right 
temperature  and  all  materials  ready  before  commencing  the  cake. 
Sift  sugar  through  a  hair  sieve,  measure  and  set  aside,  put  cream  of 
tartar  and  corn  starch  in  the  measuring  cup,  and  with  a  spoon  fill 
the  cup  heaping  full  of  flour,  sift  once  or  twice  on  a  paper  and  set 
aside.  Separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks,  being  very  careful  not 
to  get  the  least  speck  of  the  yolk  in ;  put  whites  in  a  cool  dry  mixing 
bowl,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  beat  with  a  wire  egg  whip  until  stiff  and 
dry.  Drop  flavoring  around  over  top,  put  sugar  in  a  flour  sieve 
having  a  handle,  hold  above  mixing  bowl  and  allow  it  to  sift  in, 
while  beating  with  the  other  hand.  Beat  barely  long  enough  to 
blend  the  sugar  with  the  eggs  in  the  bottom  of  the  bowl.  Put  flour 
in  the  sieve  and  shake  gently  with  one  hand,  while  folding  in  with 
the  other,  using  an  aluminum  or  silver  spoon.  Fold  only  long- 
enough  to  distribute  the  flour  to  the  bottom  of  bowl,  as  much  beat- 
ing after  the  flour  has  been  added  lessens  the  amount  of  dough  and 
makes  it  thin  and  stringy,  (this  is  the  most  important  part.)  Pour 
the  dough  Into  a  hissing  hot  Angel-food  pan,  which  has  hooks  pro- 
jecting one  inch  above  top.  (See  illustration  on  page  opposite  pre- 
face. )Set  in  the  center  of  the  oven,  lay  a  large  tin  lid  on  the  hooks, 
do  not  open  oven  for  fifteen  minutes ;  then  remove  lid  and  lay  it  on 
grate  above  the  cake,  then  if  it  bakes  too  hard  on  top,  open  the  door 
about  an  inch  or  set  a  pan  of  boiling  water  on  grate ;  if  it  bakes  too 
hard  in  the  bottom,  open  the  clean-out  door  below  oven  for  a  few 
minutes,  or  place  an  asbestos  mat  under  the  cake  in  the  beginning. 

Begin  with  temperature  of  225  and  increase  to  250,  or  accord- 
ing to  kind  of  stove  used.  This  temperature  applies  to  a  "HOME 
PRIDE  RANGE." 

Bake  from  fifty  to  sixty  minutes.     Test  with  a  fine  tooth-pick 


106 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


or  broom  straw  in  the  usual  way,  or  until  it  shrinks  a  little  from 
the  edges  of  the  pan. 

Invert  to  cool  in  a  closed  cupboard,  where  the  air  cannot  strike 
it  for  two  hours;  if  it  rises  above  the  hooks,  invert  over  a  low  one 
gallon  crock.  When  cold  remove  hooks,  loosen  edges  carefully  by 
running  a  thin  sharp  knife  around  pan  and  spout ;  rub  off  all  brown 
crust  from  top  and  sides,  remove  from  the  bottom  on  which  it  was 
baked  and  rub  crust  from  bottom  also ;  place  on  a  layer  pan  bottom, 
cut  a  thin  piece  of  soft  bread  to  fit  hole  in  the  center  made  by  the 
spout.  Ice  with  boiled  white  icing,  spread  with  a  spatula,  which 
can  be  bought  at  any  ten  cent  store. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE,  No.  2. 

Eight  large  or  nine  small  egg        Pinch  of  salt ; 

whites ;  |  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar ; 

1  cup  sugar ;  Flavoring. 

1  teaspoon  corn  starch ; 

Mix  the  same  as  for  Angel-food  cake  No.   ; 
minutes. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE. 


Bake  about  45 


\  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
1  teaspoon  corn  starch; 
Pinch  of  salt. 


9  egg  whites; 

7  egg  yolks ; 

1  rounding  cup  granulated  sugar 

I  teaspoon  extract  of  orange ; 

Beat  yolks  with  Dover  egg  beater  in  small  bowl  until  thick  and 
light,  add  flavoring  and  set  aside.  Put  corn  starch  and  cream  of 
tartar  in  measuring  cup,  fill  rounding  full  of  flour,  sift  once  or 
twice  and  set  aside.  Beat  whites  until  dry,  beat  in  sugar,  the  same 
as  for  Angel-food,  add  yolks  gradually  and  beat  only  long  enough 
to  distribute  through  the  whites.  Fold  in  flour  the  same  as  for 
Angel-food,  and  bake  accordingly.     Cool  and  ice  in  same  manner. 

PERFECTION  CAKE. 

12  egg  whites ; 

3  cups  powdered  sugar  or 

2^  of  granulated; 
1  cup  soft  butter  (White)  ; 
\  teaspoon  lemon  extract ; 


1  cup  sweet  milk; 

3-J  cups  flour; 

\  cup  corn  starch; 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


Use  only  sweet  white  butter,  for  white  cakes;  use  your  strong  butter  for 
dark  cakes,  cookies  and  for  frying  purposes. 

THE  RECIPES  IN  THIS  BOOK  have  ALL  been  tested;  do  not  waste 
time  and  ruin  your  dough  by  testing,  but  take  MY  WORD  for  it. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  107 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  with  hands  until  very  light,  add  milk 
and  half  the  flour  a  little  at  a  time  alternately,  and  beat  well.  Fold 
in  half  the  beaten  whites  and  one  cup  of  flour  lightly.  Add  remain- 
ing whites,  sift  corn  starch  and  baking  powder  with  the  remaining 
half  cup  of  flour.  Fold  in  as  lightly  as  possible  with  baker's  whisk; 
drop  around  the  edges  of  a  large  tube  loaf  pan,  leaving  the  outer 
edges  deeper  than  the  center.  Do  not  smooth  the  dough  on  top. 
This  applies  to  all  white  butter  cakes. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

If  cups  sugar;"  6  egg  whites; 

|  cup  sweet  milk;  3^  cups  flour; 

-|  cup  butter ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  and  bake  in  the  usual  manner. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Cream  f  cup  butter  and  2  cups  sifted  granulated  sugar  half  an 
hour,  add  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs  and  mix  well,  add  1  scant  half 
cup  corn  starch,  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  milk,  then  1^  cups  flour  mixed 
with  two  teaspoonful  baking  powder  a  little  more  than  rounded. 
Beat  well.     Bake  in  two  layers. 

Mrs.  T.  M.  Stevenson. 

WHITE  LAYER  CAKE— LARGE. 

2 \  cups  sugar;  ^  cup  corn  starch; 

f  cups  butter ;  3-|  cups  flour ; 

1  cup  milk ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder ; 

8  eggs,  whites  of;  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

If  desired,  two  white  layers  and  one  pink  one  can  be  made  for 
center  layer.  Color  with  Royces  damask  rose.  This  recipe  makes 
a  nice  pink  and  white  marble  cake,  by  dropping  in  alternate  spoon- 
fuls in  loaf  pan. 

Always  close  the  outside  door  "before  opening  oven  as  the  least  bit  of  cold 
air  will  cause  the  cake  to  fall...  Do  not  turn  a  cake  while  it  is  in  the  soft, 
runny  stage.  If  Angel-food  bakes  too  fast,  it  will  be  tough,  if  too  slow,  it  will 
be  coarse  and  yellow,  therefore  great  care  must  be  taken  to  have  the  tempera- 
ture "just  right." 

Use  a  baker's  whisk  for  beating  and  mixing  cakes,  or  muffins. 


108  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


WHITE  JELLY  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar;  8  eggs,  whites  of; 
-|  cup  butter;                                        3^  cups  flour; 

f  cup  milk;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  three  layers,  when  cold  spread  any  kind  of  bright  jelly, 
lemon  sauce  or  whipped  cream  between  the  layers. 

BRIDES'  CAKE. 

2-J  cups  sugar ;  4^  cups  flour ; 

1  cup  milk ;  3  teaspoons  baking  powder ; 

12  eggs,  whites  only ; 

This  makes  three  layers  or  a  very  large  loaf  cake.  Fol- 
low the  usual  method  for  mixing  butter  cakes. 

PRINCESS  CAKE. 

3  cups  powdered  sugar;  10  eggs,  whites  only; 
1  cup  white  butter;  4  cups  flour; 

1  cup  skimmed  milk;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Flavor  with  rose,  bake  from  one  to  one  and  a  half  hours. 

VANITY  CAKE. 

1J  cups  sugar;  J  cup  corn  starch; 

■J  cup  butter;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 

\  cup  milk ;  2  cups  flour. 

Follow  the  usual  method  for  mixing,  mix  the  corn  starch  with 
the  baking  powder  and  add  the  last  thing.  Flavor  with  lemon  and 
vanilla. 

FIG  CAKE. 

\\  cups  sugar ;  4  eggs,  whites  only ; 

\  cup  butter ;  3  cups  flour ; 

f  cup  milk ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

FILLING. 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar,  boiled  with  \  cup  of  water  three  min- 
utes, then  add  juice  of  1  orange,  \  lemon  and  1  tablespoon  butter. 


When  making  butter  cakes,  follow  instructions  given  for  mixing  perfection 
cake. 

Use  a  wire  egg  whip,  for  heating  egg  whites  and  a  Dover  egg  heater,  for 
heating  egg  yolks,  and  for  whipping  cream. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  109 

Let  come  to  the  boil,  then  add  the  grated  yellow  part  of  1   orange 
peel,  1  tablespoon  corn  starch,  dissolve  in  water  and  boil  again. 

Remove  from  fire  and  add  1  cup  finely  chopped  figs,  beat  until 
cool  and  spread. 

CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE. 

If  cups  sugar;  3  egg  whites; 

\  cup  butter ;  3-|  cups  flour ; 

1  cup  milk ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Bake  in  two  layers  and  ice  with  chocolate  icing.  Flavor  with 
vanilla. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar ;  4  cups  flour ; 
Scant  cup  butter;  7  eggs,  whites  only; 

1  cup  sweet  milk;  *  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  as  perfection  cake,  bake  in  a  loaf. 

MOCK  ANGEL  FOOD. 

1  cup  sugar ;  Pinch  of  salt ; 

2  egg  whites ;  1  level  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
1  cup  boiling  milk; 

Sift  sugar,  flour  and  baking  powder  four  times.  Put  in  a  warm 
bowl,  pour  on  boiling  water  and  beat  with  a  baker's  whisk.  Cool. 
Add  the  pinch  of  salt  to  the  whites  and  beat  stiff  and  dry.  Blend 
with  the  above  mixture  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  Ross  Smetherhurst. 

PREMIUM  COCOANUT  CAKE. 

If  cups  sugar ;  6  eggs,  whites  only ; 

f  cup  white  butter;  3J  cups  flour; 

1  cup  skimmed  milk;  Jcup  corn  starch. 

Follow  usual  method  for  mixing  butter  cakes.  Bake  in  loaf 
pan,  in  a  medium  hot  oven  from  one  to  one  and  a  half  hours.  When 
done  invert  to  cool  in  a  closed  cupboard.  When  cold  remove  pan 
and  crust  the  same  as  for  Angel  food.  Split  through  the  center, 
spread  with  boiled  white  icing  and  fresh  shredded  cocoanut  in  cen- 
ter and  over  top. 

Cake  pans  should  be  filled  nearly  two-thirds  full  if  the  cake  is  expected  to 
rise  to  top  of  the  pan;  the  dough  should  he  higher  at  the  outer  edges.  Do  not 
jar  the  stove  while  cakes  are  baking. 


110 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


PREMIUM  MARBLE  CAKE. 


If  cups  granulated  sugar ; 
f  cup  white  butter ; 
1  cup  sweet  milk; 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner. 


6  egg  whites ; 
3f  cups  flour; 
2  tablespoons  baking  powder. 


DARK  PART. 


3  scant  cups  flour; 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon; 

1J  teaspoons  of  cloves  and  spice 

2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


-J  cup  butter ; 

1  cup  brown  sugar; 

\  cup  strong  cold  coffee 

Yolks  of  4  eggs ; 

1  whole  egg; 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  well  beaten  yolks  and 
1  cup  of  the  flour,  milk  and  1  more  cup  flour,  beat  well.  Add  the 
remaining  cup  of  flour,  which  has  been  sifted  with  the  baking  pow- 
der and  spices,  fold  in  lightly.  Drop  in  large  loaf  pan  light  and 
dark  parts  alternately,  bake  one  and  one-half  hours. 


NUT  LOAF. 


1  egg; 

1  cup  sugar ; 

1-|  cups  sweet  milk 

^  teaspoon  salt; 


4  cups  flour ; 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder; 


1^  cups  nuts. 


Mix  and  bake  forty-five  minutes. 


Code  Finkle. 


SNOW  CAKE. 


1  cup  sugar ; 

•J  cup  sweet  milk ; 

2  cups  flour ; 

1  cup  ground  nuts ; 
\  cup  butter; 


4  egg  whites  beaten  stiff; 

2  rounding  teaspoons  baking 

powder ; 
Flavoring. 

Lillie  Christy. 


BROWN  SUGAR  CAKE. 


1J  cups  brown  sugar; 

1  cup  thick  sour  cream; 

2  well  beaten  eggs ; 

Flavor  with  nutmeg, 
le  top  with  brown  sugar. 


N 


1  scant  teaspoon  soda 
\  cup  chopped  nuts ; 
2J  cups  flour. 

Drop  in  spoonfuls  in  dripping  pan,  sprink- 
Serve  warm. 


All  butter  cakes,  are  better  the  day  they  are  baked,  and  should  not  be 
iced  until  nearly  cold,  layer  cakes  require  a  hotter  oven  than  loaf  or  sponge 
cakes,  or  angel-food. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  m 


PREMIUM  FRUIT  CAKE. 

|  cup  butter;  3  eggs; 

2  rounding  cups  brown  sugar ;  1  pound  chopped  raisins ; 

\  cup  molasses ;  |  pound  citron  chopped  fine ; 

4  cups  flour ;  1  cup  chopped  figs ; 

Cinnamon,  spices  and  cloves;  1  teaspoon  soda; 

\  nutmeg ;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

1  cup  strong  coffee ; 

Use  \  cup  of  the  flour  to  dredge  the  fruit,  and  \  cup  of  the  flour 
to  mix  the  baking  powder  and  soda.  Fold  it  in  lightly  the  last  thing. 
This  is  a  premium  cake. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar ;  \  cup  prepared  cocoanut ; 
1  scant  cup  butter ;  1  cup  sweet  milk ; 

1  pound  English  walnuts ;  1  cup  seeded  raisins ; 

2  slices  candied  pineapple ;  4  cups  flour ; 

\  pound  glazed  cherries ;  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

6  eggs,  whites  of; 

Mrs.  Lucretia  Ware. 
PORK  CAKE. 
2  cups  of  brown  sugar ;  4  whole  eggs ; 

\  cup  Dove  brand  molasses;  \  nutmeg; 

1  cup  buttermilk ;  1  teaspoon  soda  ; 

1  pound  raisins ;  3f  cups  flour ; 

\  cup  figs ;  i  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  pound  fresh  fat  pork,  ground  fine  and  creamed  with  the  sugar 
as  you  would  butter,  add  \  teaspoon  salt  to  the  ground  pork  and  mix 
as  for  fruit  cake.    Bake  for  \\  hours. 

ORANGE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar ;  1  cup  chopped  seeded  raisins ; 
\  cup  butter ;                                          \  cup  citron ; 

\  cup  orange  juice ;  1  whole  egg  and  1  yolk ; 

2  heaping  cups  flour ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Grated  yellow  part  of  orange  peel  dissolved  in  orange  juice. 
Follow  the  usual  rule  for  mixing  fruit  cakes. 

Granulated  sugar  is  measured  barely  level  full,  while  soft  white,  brown, 
powdered  sugar  and  flour,  are  well  rounded...  Soda  is  measured  and  scraped  off 
level  with  a  knife,  while  baking  powder  is  well  rounded.  Use  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  to  one  of  cream  of  tartar  barely  rounded...  For  1  pint  of  sour 
milk,  use  1  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  if  molasses  is  used  in  the  same  recipe,  add 
one-fourth  teaspoon  extra  of  soda. 


112 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE. 


1  cup  brown  sugar; 
\  cup  melted  butter; 
1^  cup  cold  apple  sauce 

(run  through  a  sieve)  ; 

2  heaping  cups  of  flour ; 
1  teaspoon  soda; 

Mrs.  James  Hartsell,  Huntington,  Ind. 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon ; 

\  nutmeg ; 

\  teaspoon  cloves ; 

1  teaspoon  spice ; 

2  whole  eggs. 


DUTCH  APPLE  CAKE. 

Separate  two  eggs ;  add  the  yolks  to  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  milk,  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  melted  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  and 
add  two  cupfuls  of  flour  that  have  been  sifted  with  three  level  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder,  beat  quickly,  fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs,  and  turn  into  a  shallow  greased  baking  tin.  Cover  the  top 
with  apples  that  have  been  pared,  cored  and  quartered,  putting  the 
rounded  sides  up,  and  dust  over  with  powdered  sugar.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erately quick  oven  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  apples  are  tender.  Serve 
with  rich  cream. 

Mrs.  Laura  B.  Wall,  Manilla,  P.  I. 


DEVILS'  FOOD  CAKE  WITH  SWEET  CHOCOLATE,  No.  1 


\  cup  brown  sugar ; 


3  cups  sifted  flour ; 
J  cup  grated  sweet  chocolate ; 
•J   teaspoon  baking  soda ; 
■J  cup  boiling  water. 


cup  butter; 
2  eggs ; 
\  cup  sour  milk  or  cream ; 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly ;  add  eggs,  beaten  until 
light  with  dover  egg  beater ;  then  sour  milk ;  then  flour  gradually, 
which  has  been  sifted  thoroughly  before  measuring.  Beat  this  mix- 
ture until  perfectly  smooth. 

Now  have  the  water  boiling  and  to  the  soda  add  just  enough 
boiling  water  to  dissolve  it.  Pour  this  into  a  dish  with  the  grated 
chocolate,  then  add  the  remainder  of  the  water  and  stir  quickly 
until  all  the  lumps  are  entirely  dissolved.  Now  pour  this  into  the 
first  mixture  and  beat  well. 

Bake  in  buttered  and  floured  pan  in  a  moderate  oven. 

This  cake  is  delicious  with  carmel  icing. 

Katharine  Breed  Lindsay. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  113 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE,  No.  2. 

2  cups  brown  sugar ;  J  teaspoon  soda  ; 

\  cup  butter ;  2  tablespoons  Bakers  cocoa  ; 

f  cup  sour  milk ;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon ; 

2  whole  eggs ;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

3 J  cups  flour ; 

Cream  butter,  sugar  and  cocoa,  add  milk  and  the  well  beaten 
eggs  and  all  the  flour  except  the  last  cup.  Beat  well,  sift  the  soda 
well  through  it,  fold  in  and  bake  immediately.  Ice  with  carmel 
icing.  If  sour  milk  cannot  be  obtained  use  cold  strong  coffee,  and 
\  teaspoon  soda  and  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  \  cup  chopped 
nuts  makes  a  fine  addition. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE,  No.  3. 

2  cups  brown  sugar ;  \  cup  boiling  water ; 

\  cup  butter ;  2  heaping  tablespoons  cocoa  ; 

3  well  beaten  eggs ;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder ; 
\  cup  sour  cream ;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon ; 

3  cups  flour;  1  teaspoon  soda. 

Cream  butter,  sugar,  cocoa  and  cinnamon  together,  beat  eggs 
well  and  set  aside.  Dissolve  soda  in  the  boiling  water,  pour  over 
the  former  ingredients.  Beat  well,  add  sour  cream  and  1  cup  flour, 
eggs  and  the  2nd  cup  flour,  lastly  fold  in  the  last  cup  of  flour  with 
the  baking  powder  sifted  in  and  fold  in  very  lightly.  Drop  in 
three  layer  pans  and  bake  at  once. 

Mrs.   Charles  Wardwell. 

COFFEE  CAKE,  No.  1. 

1  cup  brown  sugar ;  3^  cups  flour ; 

\  cup  baking  molasses ;  Cinnamon  and  nutmeg  ; 

f  cup  butter ;  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

1  cup  cold  strong  coffee ;  der. 

2  eggs ; 

Use  with  carmel  icing. 

COFFEE  CAKE,  No.  2. 

2  cups  brown  sugar ;  3  whole  eggs  ; 

i  cup  molasses ;  3  teaspoons  baking  powder ; 

1  cup  cold  strong  coffee ;  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon, 

f  cup  butter ;  cloves  and  spice ; 

1  pound  seeded  raisins  ;  \  nutmeg  ; 

1  cup  chopped  citron ;  3f  cups  flour. 


114  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


Mix  the  same  as  for  fruit  cake  and  bake  1-J  hours  in  a  slow 
oven.     This  makes  a  fine  Christmas  cake. 

WASHINGTON  LOAF  CAKE. 

2  cups  soft  white  sugar ;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder ; 
|  cup  butter ;  1  cup  buttermilk. 

3|  cups  flour ;  Flavor  with  nutmeg. 

■J  teaspoon  soda ; 

Bake  in  a  large  loaf  pan,  invert  and  ice  with  a  boiled  icing  and 
sprinkle  the  top  with  coriander  candy. 

Marie  Becker  Pribble,  1892. 

BEGINNER'S  LOAF  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar;  2  cups  flour; 

J  cup  butter;  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  pow- 

\  cup  milk ;  der. 

4  eggs,  whites  of; 

Flavor  with  any  desired  flavor  and  follow  the  general  rule  for 
cake  baking. 

RICH  SPICE  CAKE. 

3  whole  eggs ;  f  cup  buttermilk ; 

2  yolks ;  1  teaspoon  soda ; 

2  cups  brown  sugar ;  2  teaspoons  cinnamon ; 

f  cup  soft  butter;  \  teaspoon  cloves; 

3J  cups  flour ;  1  teaspoon  spice  and 

•J  cup  nuts ;  \  nutmeg. 

Ice  with  carmel  icing. 

CARMEL  ICING. 

2  cups  brown  sugar ;  \  cup  sweet  cream ; 

\  cup  butter ;  \  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Boil  to  the  soft  ball  stage.     Cool  until  milk  warm  and  beat.     If 
too  stiff  add  a  little  cream. 

Fruits  should  be  well  washed,  dried  and  dredged  in  corn-starch  or  flour, 
and  added,  just  before  the  last  cup  of  flour  is  folded  in.  Buttermilk,  is  pre* 
ferred  to  clabber,  for  soda  cakes,  cookies  and  ginger  bread. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  115 


OLD  TIME  SPICE  CAKE. 

2  whole  eggs ;  1  teaspoon  soda ; 

2  yolks ;  2  teaspoons  cinnamon ; 

2  cups  brown  sugar ;  ^  teaspoon  cloves ; 

J  cup  soft  butter;  1  teaspoon  allspice; 

f  cup  buttermilk;  3  cups  flour. 

Use  remaining  whites  to  make  soft  white  boiled  icing.  Flavor 
with  spice  extract. 

LEMON  JELLY  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar ;  3  whole  eggs  well  beaten ; 
\  cup  butter ;  3J  cups  flour ; 

1  cup  milk ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Flavor  with  lemon  or  orange  and  bake  in  two  layers.  Use  fill- 
ing made  as  follows : 

2  cups  sugar,  juice  of  2  small  lemons  and  1  orange,  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  1  cup  water,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  heaping  tablespoon  corn 
starch  dissolved  in  \  cup  cold  water  and  added  with  well  beaten 
eggs  and  lemon  juice.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  and  grated  lemon 
peel  and  pour  over  the  above  ingredients.  Pour  back  into  former 
vessel  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  briskly.     Cool  and  spread. 

Mrs.  "W.  H.  McClellan. 

BANANA  CAKE. 

Mix  1  cup  granulated  sugar  with  2  crushed  bananas.  Add  \ 
cup  butter,  1  liberal  half  cup  sweet  milk,  2  eggs  beaten  together,  2-| 
cups  flour  (not  spring  wheat).  Mix  all  together  using  about  f  of 
the  flour  and  then  fold  in  lightly  what  remains,  with  2  rounded 
teaspoons  baking  powder.  This  makes  two  large  layers,  bake  in 
medium  hot  oven,  spread  with  whipped  cream  or  cream  icing. 

A  large  cup  of  thick  sour  cream  can  be  used  instead  of  the  milk 
and  butter.     (This  cake  should  be  eaten  the  same  day  it  is  baked.) 

JELLY  ROLL. 

3  eggs  ;  \\  cups  flour ; 

1  cup  sugar ;  1  tablespoon  cream  tartar ; 

\  cup  rich  milk ;  \  teaspoon  soda. 

Spread  with  currant,  gooseberry,  or  plum  jelly.  Sprinkle  top 
with  powdered  sugar,  roll  on  a  towel.  Baking  powder  may  be  used 
instead  of  soda  and  cream  of  tartar. 


116  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 

NUT  CAKE. 

1^  cups  sugar ;  j  cup  milk  ; 

\  cup  butter ;  3  cups  flour ; 

3  whole  eggs ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  cup  nut  meats ; 

Flavor  with  bitter  almond  and  bake  in  a  loaf. 

SILVER  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar ;  7  eggs,  whites  only ; 
|  cups  butter ;                                       3J  cups  flour ; 

f  cup  milk ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Flavor  with  orange.  Use  a  white  boiled  icing,  bake  in  layers  or 
a  loaf  as  preferred. 

GOLD  CAKE. 

1-J  cups  sugar ;  5  j^olks  and  1  Avhole  egg ; 

\  cup  butter ;  §  cup  milk  ; 

3  cups  flour ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Use  any  flavor  desired.    Bake  in  loaf.    Use  a  gold  icing. 
CREAM  CAKE,  No.  1. 

3  eggs  well  beaten,  add  6  tablespoons  of  cold  water  and 
1  cup  granulated  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt ; 

beat  thoroughly ;  1-|  cups  sifted  flour ; 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder ;  Flavor  with  lemon. 

Beat  all  of  the  ingredients  together,  reserving  \  cup  of  the  flour 
which  must  be  sifted  with  the  baking  powder  and  folded  in  lightly 
last  of  all.  Bake  at  once  in  two  layers.  When  cold  fill  with  boiled 
custard  or  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Sam  Wearlev. 
CREAM  CAKE,  No.  2. 

3  eggs  well  beaten ;  1  cup  granulated  sugar ; 

6  tablespoons  water ;  3  tablespoons  baking  powder ; 

Pinch  of  salt ;  1^  cups  flour. 

Bake  in  layers  and  fill  Avith  orange  filling. 

Spices,  and  cocoa,  should  be  sifted  through  the  first  cup  of  flour,  while 
baking  powder,  cream  of  tartar,  and  soda,  must  be  sifted  with  the  last  cup 
several  times,  and  folded  in  lightly  and  baked  immediately. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  117 


NEW  MOON  CAKES. 

2  cups  sugar  ;  2  egg  yolks  ; 

1  cup  milk ;  3  j  cups  flour ; 

|  cup  butter;  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

5  egg  whites;  der. 

Follow  the  usual  method  of  mixing  butter  cakes.  Flavor  with 
Mace  or  extract  of  nutmeg.  Spread  in  large  dripping  pan  nearly 
\  inch  thick.  Ice  with  pink  or  yellow  cream  fondant  icing.  Cut  in 
crescent  shapes. 

VALENTINE  CAKES. 

Use  the  above  recipe  omitting  the  yolks.  Ice  with  pink  icing 
and  cut  into  heart  shapes. 

HICKORY  NUT  AND  WALNUT  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar ;  1  cup  hickory  nuts ; 

\  cup  butter ;  \  cup  walnuts  chopped  line  ; 

f  cup  milk ;  3 J  cups  flour  ; 

3  eggs  well  beaten ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  almond. 

ONE  EGG  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar ;  \\  teaspoon  baking  powder  ; 

|  cup  butter  •  1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract ; 

1  egg;  \  cup  milk. 
If  cups  flour; 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  until  light  and  creamy,  add  the  egg 
lightly  beaten,  then  the  milk  and  vanilla  extract.  Sift  the  flour 
and  baking  powder  together,  and  these  to  the  other  ingredients, 
and  beat  well.     Bake  in  a  greased  cake  pan  for  about  half  an  hour. 

Gay  Hartsell,  4-22-12. 

When   flavoring  with   almonds,   use   only   a   few  drops   as   it   is   considered 
harmful.     Flavoring  extracts  should  always  be  dropped  into  the  milk. 


118  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


MEMORANDA 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  119 


MEMORANDA 


1 

SMALL  CAKES,  WAFERS, 
DOUGHNUTS,  COOKIES 

1 

SNOW  BALLS. 

Make  half  of  the  recipe  for  Angel-food  cake  No.  1.  Fill  jelly 
glasses  a  little  more  than  half  full,  put  on  lids  and  steam  in  a  roast- 
er on  a  wire  rest  (or  steamer.)  Set  on  fire,  steam  for  1  hour.  Put 
waxed  paper  in  the  bottoms  of  glasses  before  filling,  invert  to  cool. 
Remove  from  glasses  with  a  narrow  bladed  sharp  knife.  Let  stand 
over  night  before  icing  with  soft  boiled  white  icing.  Roll  in  pre- 
pared cocoanut. 

Bessie  Black  Thompson. 

ANGEL  DROP  CAKE. 

Make  same  as  Angel-food  No.  2,  drop  on  an  inverted  buttered 
pan  in  spoonfuls  and  dust  with  powdered  sugar,  bake  in  medium  hot 
oven  to  a  light  brown. 

SPANISH  DROP  CAKES. 

1  cup  sugar ;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon  extract ; 

1  cup  sour  cream;  2  cups  flour. 

1  teaspoon  soda;  2  eggs  well  beaten. 

Beat  the  sour  cream  and  sugar,  add  the  soda,  then  the  cinna- 
mon and  lastly  the  sifted  flour.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  to  greased 
baking  sheets  and  sprinkle  brown  sugar  and  cinnamon  (ground) 
over  the  top  of  each  little  cake.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  10 
minutes. 

DROP  CAKES. 

1  \  cups  sugar ;  2J  cups  flour ; 

i  cup  butter ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder ; 

|  cup  sweet  milk;  1  cup  hickory  nuts; 

3  eggs  well  beaten ;  Flavor  with  lemon  or  nutmeg. 

Fill  gem  pans  about  J  full  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

SPONGE  DROPS. 

3  eggs  ;  i  teaspoon  salt ; 

|  cup  sugar ;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder ; 

1  cup  of  flour ;  Flavor  with  grated  orange  peel. 

Beat  eggs  until  light,  sift  the  baking  powder  in  the  flour  and 
fold  in  lightly. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  121 


LEMON  DROPS. 

J  cup  butter ;  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder ; 

1  cup  powdered  sugar ;  2  eggs ; 

\  cup  milk;  1  lemon. 
1^  cups  of  flour; 

Grate  the  rind   of  lemon  into  the   cake,   the  juice   in  the   icing 

made  with  powdered  sugar,  the  whites  of  two  eggs   beaten  light, 

sugar  stirred  into  them.     This   quantity   makes  one   and     one-half 
dozen  cakes  baked  in  small  gem  pans. 

CRUMMETS. 

1  cup  butter ;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder ; 
1-J  cups  sugar ;                                        3  cups  flour ; 

§  cup  milk ;  1  cup  seeded  raisins. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  eggs,  then  the 
raisins  and  lastly  the  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted  together.  Roll 
thinly,  cut  into  fancy  shapes.  Bake  on  a  greased  tin  in  a  quick 
oven. 

LADY  FINGERS. 

2  egg  yolks ;  \  teaspoon  vanilla ; 

3  egg  whites ;  i  cup  pastry  flour ; 
f  cup  powdered  sugar ;  J  teaspoon  salt. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  very  stiff,  adding  the  sugar 
gradually.  Then  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  and  the  vanilla.  Fold  in 
very  gently,  the  flour  sifted  with  the  salt.  Force  the  mixture 
through  a  pastry  bag  onto  a  greased,  flat  pan;  sprinkle  well  with 
sifted  sugar,  and  bake  eight  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CINNAMON  CRISPS. 

1J  cups  flour;  i  cup  butter; 

1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon;  f  cup  sugar; 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  i  cup  milk. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  until  light,  then  add  the  cinnamon, 
flour  and  baking  powder  sifted  together.  Mix  to  a  dough  with  the 
milk,  using  only  just  enough  to  make  a  dough  which  can  be  rolled 
out  easily.  Roll  very  thin  on  a  well-floured  board,  and  cut  into 
squares  or  rounds.  Bake  on  greased  tins  about  ten  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 


122 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


BROWNIES.    No.  1. 


J  cup  butter ; 

\  cup  sugar; 

\  cup  molasses ; 

1  heaping  cup  flour; 

Drop  on  buttered  pans. 


1  whole  egg ; 

1  cup  nuts ; 

-J  teaspoon  soda ; 

Cinnamon,  spice  and  nutmeg. 


BALLOONS. 


1  cup  flour; 

1  cup  boiling  water 

3  eggs; 


J  cup  butter; 
i  teaspoon  salt; 
1  teaspoon  sugar. 


Add  the  butter  to  the  boiling  water.  Stir  in  the  flour  while 
boiling  vigorously.  Stir  until  cold.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Beat 
well  after  adding  each  one.  Drop  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  like  dough- 
nuts. When  done  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  serve  with  lemon  or 
orange  sauce. 

BROWNIES.     No.  2 

Melt  \  cup  butter  and  2  squares  of  chocolate  together.  Stir 
thoroughly,  add  1  cup  sugar,  \  cup  flour,  2  eggs  slightly  beaten  and 
1  cup  of  chopped  nuts.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  25  minutes  or 
more.  Cut  and  set  to  cool.  This  recipe  makes  about  eighteen 
squares.    Use  Baker 's  bitter  chocolate. 

Grace  Williams,  Marion,  Ind. 


LEMON  CRACKERS. 


3  cups  soft  white  sugar; 

2  eggs ; 

\  teaspoon  salt; 


1  pint  sweet  milk; 

1  ounce  carbonate  amonia; 

Flavor  with  lemon. 


Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  add  \  the  milk  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Add  the  rest  of  the  milk  with  the  amo- 
nia well  dissolved  in  it  and  enough  additional  flour  to  make  a  rather 
stiff  dough.  Roll  J  inch  thick,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  light 
brown. 

Mrs.  Caroline  Cole. 


Bake  brownies  on  an  inverted  pan;  cut  and  remove  while  hot. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  123 

LEMON  WAFERS. 

1  cup  sugar ;  1  cup  flour ; 

4  egg  yolks ;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder ; 

Pinch  of  salt ;  Grated  yellow  part  of  orange  rind. 

\  cup  lemon  juice ; 

Beat  yolks  with  dover  egg  beater  until  creamy.  Add  sugar, 
beating  all  the  while.  Add  the  lemon  juice  and  flour.  Drop  in  round 
balls,  the  size  of  a  hulled  walnut,  1^  inches  apart  on  buttered  tins. 
Bake  in  a  medium  hot  oven  until  a  delicate  brown. 

PEANUT  WAFERS. 

J  cup  lard  and  butter  mixed ;  J  teaspoon  salt ; 

1  cup  sugar ;  \  cup  water ; 

1  cup  chopped  or  ground  \\  cups  flour ; 

peanuts;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  the  lard,  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  nuts,  then  the 
water,  and  lastly,  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  sifted  together, 
using  just  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough  that  will  roll  thinly.  Cut 
into  squares  or  rounds  and  bake  about  ten  minutes. 

WALNUT  WAFERS. 

1  cup  brown  sugar;  2  whole  eggs; 

1  cup  nuts  broken  fine ;  4  tablespoons  flour ; 

large  pinch  of  salt;  \  teaspoon  baking  powder; 

Flavor  with  bitter  almond. 

Drop  in  balls  the  size  of  hulled  walnuts  1  inch  apart  on  a  well 
buttered  tin.    Bake  as  for  cookies. 

ROLLED-OATS  WAFERS. 

1J  cups  light  brown  or  A  2^  cups  rolled  oats ; 

sugar ;  2  eggs ; 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter ;  \  cup  flour ; 

4  tablespoons  water ;  \  teaspoon  salt. 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder; 

Bake  same  as  walnut  wafers. 

NUT  WAFERS. 

5  teaspoons  flour ;  1  cup  brown  sugar ; 

\  teaspoon  Royal  baking  1  cup  English  walnuts ; 

powder ;  3  well  beaten  eggs. 

\  teaspoon  salt  and  sift ; 


124  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


Add  the  sugar  to  the  well-beaten  eggs,  beat  together  until 
creamy.  Fold  in  flour  and  nuts.  Spread  thin  on  well  buttered  tins, 
bake  light  brown.     Cut  in  squares  and  remove  from  pan. 

Mrs.   U.   G.   Miars. 

MARGUERITES. 

White  of  one  egg.  One  cup  sugar,  enough  water  to  moisten  and 
boil  until  a  soft  ball  can  be  made.  Then  pour  slowly  over  the  well- 
beaten  egg,  beating  all  the  time.  Stir  thick  with  shelled  English 
walnuts  chopped  fine,  and  spread  over  salted  wafers ;  place  in  oven 
to  brown.  Mrs.  Rufus  Crandle. 

KISSES. 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  then  stir  in  one 
and  one-half  pounds  of  powdered  sugar ;  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon 
extract ;  continue  to  beat  until  it  will  lie  in  a  heap ;  lay  the  mixture 
on  letter-paper  in  the  size  and  shape  of  half  an  egg  and  about  an 
inch  apart;  then  place  the  paper  on  a  piece  of  hard  wood,  and  put 
into  a  quick  oven  without  closing  the  door.  Watch  them,  and  when 
they  turn  yellowish,  take  them  out,  and  let  them  cool  for  three  or 
four  minutes ;  then  slip  a  thin  bladed  knife  under  one  and  transfer 
it  to  your  hand;  then  take  off  another,  join  the  two  by  the  sides 
that  lay  on  the  paper,  and  place  the  kisses  thus  made  on  a  dish. 
They  are  delicious.  Half  the  mixture  may  be  colored  pink,  which 
makes  them  more  attractive. 

HICKORY-NUT  KISSES. 

1  egg ;  1  cup  sugar ; 

■J  cup  flour ;  .  1  cup  nuts  cut  very  fine. 

Beat  egg  and  sugar  very  light,  add  flour  and  nuts.  Drop  from  a 
teaspoon  into  pan,  1-J  inches  apart.  Bake  in  slow  oven  about  twenty 
minutes. 

MACAROONS. 

2  egg  whites;  1J  cup  granulated  sugar; 
1-J  cups  almonds  after  they             J  cup  flour; 

are  blanched  and  ground ;  Few  drops  of  rose  extract ; 

Pinch  of  salt ;  J  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Whip  the  eggs  until  stiff  and  dry.  Add  the  flavoring  and  sift 
the  sugar  in,  beating  lightly,  fold  in  flour  and  baking  powder. 
Sprinkle  the  almonds  in  the  last  thing.  Drop  in  balls  the  size  of  a 
small  hulled  walnut,  on  an  inverted  pan.    Bake  a  light  brown. 

Myrtle  Ware. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  125 


DOUGHNUTS. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar ;  5  eggs ; 

\  cup  soft  butter ;  \\  cups  buttermilk ; 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  soda ; 

(Royal)  ;  Pinch  salt. 

\  nutmeg ;  Flour  enough  to  roll  conveniently. 

This  makes  a  large  amount,  but  they  will  keep  for  several 
weeks  if  put  in  a  jar  and  covered  well.  \  of  the  amount  may  be 
made  for  small  families. 

Mrs.  Frank  Canady. 

TWISTERS. 

1  cup  soft  white  sugar ;  2  well  beaten  eggs ; 

\  cup  buttermilk ;  \  teaspoon  soda  ; 

\  cup  sour  cream;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

J  teaspoon  salt; 

Make  a  medium  stiff  dough,  cut  in  strips  \  inch  wide  and  6  in- 
ches long.    Roll,  twist,  and  double.    Fry  in  hot  fat. 

POTATO  DOUGHNUTS. 

1  grated  nutmeg ;  1  teaspoon  butter ; 
3  eggs;  1  cup  sweet  milk; 

2  cups  granulated  sugar ;  Flour  enough  to  stiffen. 
5  teaspoons  baking  powder;  Roll  in  pulverized  sugar. 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes ; 

Sadie  Wuersten   Gill. 

CHOCOLATE  DOUGHNUTS. 

2  eggs ;  2  tablespoons  melted  chocolate  ; 
1  tablespoon  melted  butter;  1  teaspoon  vanilla; 

1  cup  sweet  milk ;  3  cups  flour  : 

1  cup  sugar  •  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

\  teaspoon  salt ; 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Beat  the  eggs 
and  add  to  them  the  sugar,  chocolate,  butter  and  milk.  Then  add  the 
vanilla.    Mix  soft,  cut  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Kisses,  macaroons  and  margarites  should  be  "baked  on  an  inverted  pan. 


126 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


DROP  DOUGHNUTS. 


1  cup  soft  white  sugar ; 
1  cup  sweet  milk ; 
1  level  tablespoon  butter ; 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Pinch  of  salt ; 


2  eggs ; 

i  cup  chopped  hickory  nuts ; 

\  teaspoon  soda; 

A  few  drops  almond  extract; 

3  cups  flour. 


Sift  soda  and  baking  powder  in  last  \  cup  of  flour  and  fold  in  gent- 
ly.   Fry  in  hot  fat  immediately. 


COOKIES.  No.  1. 


1  cup  brown  sugar ; 
f  cup  lard  or  butter ; 


\  teaspoon  soda 


z  eggs ; 

\  cup  warm  water; 

1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
Pinch  of  salt;  der; 

1  cup  A  sugar ;  Flavor  with  nutmeg. 

Mix  all  of  the  above  ingredients,  except  the  baking  powder. 
Add  it  to  the  flour.  Mix  to  a  very  soft  dough.  Roll  out  \  inch 
thick  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Charles  Wardwell,  Marion,  Ind. 

SOUR  CREAM  COOKIES. 


2  cups  sugar; 

J  teaspoon  caraway  or 

1  cup  butter  or  other  short- 

Vanilla extract; 

ening  ; 

2  eggs ; 

1  teaspoon  soda; 

\  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  sour  cream; 

Mix  soft,  dust  top  with 

sugar. 

COOKIES.    No.  2. 


2  eggs; 

2  cups  soft  white  sugar ; 

2  teaspoons  Royal  baking 

powder; 

Flavor  to  taste. 


Tiny  pinch  of  soda ; 
\  teaspoon  salt ; 
5  tablespoons  water; 
f  cup  butter  or  lard. 

Mrs.  J.  W. 


Gill. 


\  cup  butter; 
1  cup  sugar ; 
\  cup  milk; 
\  cup  molasses ; 
f  cup  currants ; 


DROPPED  COOKIES. 

3  cups  flour; 


2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 
1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon 
\  teaspoon  ground  cloves. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  127 


Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  well-beaten 
eggs,  then  the  milk,  molasses  and  currants,  and  lastly  the  dry  ingre- 
dients well  sifted  together.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  greased  pans, 
some  distance  apart.  Bake  for  about  ten  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

EGGLESS  COOKIES. 

\\  cups  soft  white  sugar ;  1  cup  butter ; 

1  cup  sweet  milk ;  1  teaspoon  soda ; 

Speck  of  salt;  Flavor  with  caraway  extract. 

This  is  an  unusual  recipe,  but  is  worthy  of  trying. 

Almaretta  Alexander. 

BANANA  COOKIES. 

2  cups  soft  white  sugar ;  1  cup  butter ; 

2  large  bananas ;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder ; 

\  cup  sweet  milk ;  1  egg  well  beaten. 

Crush  bananas  and  sugar  together  well,  add  other  ingredients 
and  mix  dough  rather  soft.    Sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar. 

ROLLED  OATS  COOKIES. 

2  J  cups  brown  sugar;  1  cup  butter; 

4  eggs  well  beaten ;  \  cup  sweet  cream ; 

4  cups  rolled  oats;  li  teaspoons  soda; 

3  cups  flour;  1  cup  raisins. 

1  cup  chopped  nuts;  1  cup  chopped  figs. 

Flavor  with  grated  orange  peel  or  almond  extract.  Mix  and 
drop  by  spoonfuls  2  inches  apart  in  buttered  bread  pan. 

GRAHAM  COOKIES. 

2  cups  brown  sugar ;  2  eggs,  well  beaten ; 
|  cup  butter ;                                         J  of  a  nutmeg ; 

1  cup  sour  milk ;  4  cups  unbolted  graham  flour ; 

1  cup  raisins ;  1  teaspoonful  soda. 

\  cup  figs,  chopped ; 

Mix  same  as  fruit  cake,  blend  soda  with  last  cup  of  flour,  fold 
in  lightly,  drop  in  buttered  tins,  same  as  for  rolled  oats  cookies. 
This  amount  makes  three  dozen. 

Mrs.  Jessie  Bennett. 

A  ten  cent  granite  wash  pan  makes  a  nice  mixing  "bowl,  until  it  begins  to 
scale  off.    It  is  only  fit  to  peel  vegetables  in  then. 


128  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


WHITE  GINGER  COOKIES. 

1  cup*  butter ;  3  eggs  well  beaten ; 

1  cup  sour  cream  (not  too  i  teaspoon  salt; 

rich)  ;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon; 

1  teaspoonful  soda  pulverized ;  J  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or 

1  tablespoonful  ginger ;  grated  orange  peel. 

2  cups  A  sugar ; 

Mix  as  for  butter  cakes,  sift  soda  well  through  last  cup  of  flour, 
and  mix  as  soft  as  can  be  handled,  bake  in  quick  oven. 

GINGER  COOKIES,  No.  1. 

\  cup  molasses;  1  egg  well  beaten; 

1  cup  sugar ;  2  teaspoons  soda  ; 

f  cup  buttermilk;  Flour  enough  to  roll  soft. 

1  tablespoon  ginger; 

Roll  one-third  inch  thick.  Bake  in  a  medium  oven.  Good  with 
soft  boiled  icing. 

GINGER  COOKIES.    No.  2. 

Scant  cup  baking  molasses,  scant  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup 
lard  and  1  tablespoonful  over,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  all- 
spice, 1  tablespoon  soda,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  1J  cups  water  and 
flour  enough  to  make  stiff  dough.    Bake  in  a  slow,oven. 

Mix  this  with  a  spoon.    Do  not  put  your  hands  into  the  mixture. 

Mrs.  Frank  Kariger. 

GINGERSNAPS. 

1  egg;  J  cup  molasses; 

1  cup  brown  sugar ;  1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed ; 

\  cup  water  (cold)  ;  1  level  tablespoon  soda. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  molasses  and  beat  well.  Use  enough 
flour  to  roll  to  a  rather  soft  dough.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

GINGER  COOKIES.    No.  3. 

1  cup  molasses ;  1  cup  brown  sugar ; 

1  cup  lard ;  \  cup  water ; 

1  tablespoon  ginger;  1  tablespoon  soda; 

1  teaspoon  ground  cloves ;  1  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

Molasses  cakes  and  cookies  require  a  slow  oven. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  129 


After  the  dough  is  made  take  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  thimble, 
roll  into  a  ball  then  flatten.  Place  in  a  pan  at  least  an  inch  apart. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.    Better  after  a  daj7  or  two  old. 

N.  G.  B.  A. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD. 

1  cup  brown  sugar;  1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved; 

J  cup  Orleans  molasses ;  1  cup  hot  water ; 

\  cup  butter;  1  egg;  1  tablespoon  ginger; 

\  teaspoon  vanilla ;  2-J  cups  flour. 

Fold  in  lightly,  put  in  a  pan  immediately  and  bake  slowly. 

SOUR  CREAM  GINGER  BREAD 

1  cup  brown  sugar ;  1  egg ; 

1  tablespoon  ginger ;  \  cup  molasses  ; 

2-|  cups  flour;     1  teaspoon  soda;     1  cup  thick  sour  cream; 

Mix:  and  bake  the  same  as  for  soft  ginger  bread.  \  cup  of  but- 
ter and  \  cup  buttermilk  may  be  substituted  for  the  sour  cream. 

NEW  GINGER  BREAD. 

J  cup  lard;  \  cup  sweet  milk; 

J  cup  sugar ;  1  teaspoon  ginger ; 

1  egg ;  \  teaspoon  cinnamon ; 

|  cup  molasses ;  Salt. 
|  teaspoon  soda ; 

First  sift  flour  then  measure  two  cups,  add  the  soda,  ginger, 
cinnamon  and  salt  to  flour  and  sift  twice.  Cream  the  lard,  add  the 
sugar  gradually,  then  the  well-beaten  egg.  Beat  this  mixture  thor- 
oughly. Mix  the  molasses  and  milk  and  add  this  alternately  with 
the  flour.  Bake  in  thin  sheet  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  cold  cut 
in  fancy  shapes  and  frost  with  milk  frosting. 

GINGER  BREAD. 

1  cup  sugar;  1  egg  well  beaten; 

1  cup  New  Orleans  Molasses  ;  2-J  cups  flour ; 

1  cup  thick  sour  cream ;  1  dessert  spoon  ginger ; 

\  teaspoon  salt ;  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon ; 

The  same  amount  of  soda  should  he  used  for  one  and  one-third  cups  sour 
cream  as  for  one  of  "buttermilk  or  clahher. 

Wafers  should  he  haked  on  the  hottom  of  a  large  shallow  pan. 


130 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


Dissolve  soda 
Bake  in     gem 


GINGER  DROP  CAKES. 

i  cup  butter ;  f  cup  hot  water ; 

1  cup  brown  sugar ;  1  teaspoon  soda ; 
i  cup  N.  0.  Molasses;  2 \  cups  flour; 

2  well  beaten  eggs;  1  teaspoon  ginger. 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon ; 

Cream  the  butter,  sugar  and  molasses  together, 
in  the  boiling  water,  stir  well,  add  eggs  and  flour, 
pans.    Ice  with  boiled  icing  flavored  with  vanilla. 

BANBERRY  TARTS. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  pound  seeded  raisins,  two  lemons,  grated 
rind  and  juice ;  four  large  soda  crackers  rolled  fine ;  two  eggs  and 
one  cup  of  English  currants.  Put  the  raisins  through  a  chopper  and 
beat  eggs  well.  Mix  the  raisins,  currants,  sugar  and  eggs.  Beat 
them  well  adding  crackers,  lemon  rind  and  juice.  Do  not  cook  this 
mixture.  Make  a  rich  puff  paste.  Take  a  large  tablespoon  of  the 
mixture,  put  on  one-half  of  puff  paste,  turn  over  the  other  half, 
and  press  the  edges  around  with  a  silver  fork.  Bake  15  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven. 


CREAM  PUFFS. 


1  cup  boiling  water ; 
i  cup  butter,  scant; 
Lump  of  soda  size  of  pea ; 


1  heaping  cup  flour,  equal  parts 
spring  and  winter  wheat 
blended. 


Put  butter,  water  and  soda  in  a  stew  pan  over  the  fire.  When 
boiling  hot  stir  the  flour  in  briskly.  Take  from  fire,  stir  with  a  wire 
potato  masher  until  cold.  Stir  in  the  unbeaten  yolk  of  one  egg, 
beat  well,  then  stir  in  the  unbeaten  white;  beat  again  until  all 
have  been  added  in  this  manner.  Do  not  beat  long  after  adding 
the  last  white.  This  quantity  makes  16  puffs.  Drop  in  an  unbutter- 
ed  pan  1-J  inches  apart.  Bake  25  to  30  minutes  with  temperature 
not  quite  as  high  as  for  biscuits. 


MAPLE  PUFFS. 


-J  pound  maple  sugar ; 
•J  pound  brown  sugar; 
Whites  of  2  eggs ; 
1  cup  English  walnuts 


\  cup  chopped  figs ; 
\  cup  chopped  citron ; 
\  cup  raisins; 
\  cup  water. 


Boil  the  sugar  and  water  to  the  soft  ball  stage.    Beat  the  whites  of 
of  the  eggs  very  stiff,  gradually  add  the  hot  syrup  to  the  whites  of 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  131 


the  eggs,  beating  all  the  time.  When  the  mixture  begins  to  stiffen, 
add  the  other  ingredients.  Beat  until  it  will  hold  its  shape.  Place 
by  tablespoonfnls  on  greased  paper  and  let  stand  until  stiff. 

SHORT  PASTE  FOR  FRUIT  TARTS. 

One-half  pound  of  flour,  one  ounce  of  creme  de  riz,  4  ounces  of 
butter,  1  ounce  of  castor-sugar,  1  yolk  of  egg;  rub  the  flour  and 
butter  together  until  smooth,  then  add  the  sugar  and  egg  and  J  of 
an  ounce  of  baking  powder ;  mix  with  cold  water  into  a  very  stiff 
paste,  roll  out  and  use. 

BANANA  FRITTERS. 

2  eggs;  \  cup  sugar; 

1  cup  sweet  milk;  1  teaspoon  butter; 

Pinch  of  salt;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter  (as  for  drop  cakes  or 
dumplings.)  Line  a  tablespoon  \  inch  deep  with  the  batter,  lay  on 
a  slice  of  banana  \  inch  thick,  cover  with  batter,  and  drop  in  hot 
fat.    Fry  until  done. 

Pineapple  fritters  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner. 

ROSETTE  WAFERS  AND  TIMBALES. 

2  whole  eggs ;  1  cup  new  milk ; 

\  teaspoon  salt ;  1  heaping  cup  flour. 

1  teaspoon  sugar; 

Beat  eggs  slightly  with  the  sugar  and  salt.  Add  the  flour  and 
milk  alternately  a  little  at  a  time.  Strain  through  a  double  mosqui- 
to bag  or  run  through  a  potato  ricer.  To  make  a  smooth  cream 
paste  the  batter  must  be  stirred  instead  of  beaten.  If  stirred  too 
much  the  rosettes  or  timbales  will  be  covered  with  blisters. 

If  rosettes  do  not  come  off  the  iron  easily  they  are  not  fried  long 
enough. 

If  they  drop  off  into  the  grease  the  iron  is  too  hot. 

If  the  batter  slips  off  the  iron  into  the  bowl  the  iron  is  not  deep 
enough  in  the  grease.  Do  not  let  the  batter  reach  quite  even  with 
the  top  of  the  iron. 

If  rosette  is  not  crisp  it  has  been  fried  too  quick. 

Experience  will  lead  you  rightly.  Make  rosette  timbales  in  the 
same  manner  as  rosettes,  omitting  the  sugar. 


132  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


CORNUCOPIAS. 

J  cup  butter ;  \  cup  sugar ; 

J  cup  milk;  J  cup  flour; 

\  teaspoon  vanilla  ;  Speck  of  salt. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  well,  add  milk  a  drop  at  a  time 
and  repeat  creaming,  add  vanilla,  salt  and  flour.  Stir  well.  Regu- 
lar cornu-copia  irons  should  be  used,  but  a  bread  pan  makes  a  very 
good  substitute.  Pour  on  well-buttered  bread  pan  a  spoonful  at  a 
time,  2  or  3  inches  apart.  Spread  as  thinly  as  possible.  When  done 
roll  quickly  in  the  shape  of  ice  cream  cones.  Tie  with  ribbons  and 
serve  any  kind  of  ice  cream  with  them. 

CREAM  FILLING. 

Whip  1  cup  of  cold  separated  cream  stiff,  sweeten  and  flavor  to 
taste.  Split  a  cold  sponge  cake,  spread  between  and  on  top.  Do 
not  let  stand  long  or  it  will  soak.  Good  with  cornu-copias  and  fresh 
iruit. 

FILLING  FOR  CREAM  PUFFS. 

\\  cup  milk ;  1  cup  sugar ; 

i  cup  butter ;  1  tablespoon  corn  starch ; 

2  egg  yolks ;  Pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  butter,  milk  and  sugar  together,  beat  yolks  well,  dissolve 
corn  starch  in  1  tablespoon  milk,  stir  into  yolks,  pour  the  boiling 
mixture  over  them,  return  to  fire  and  let  thicken.  When  cold  add  \ 
cup  whipped  cream.     Flavor  with  lemon  and  vanilla. 

MAPLE  FILLING. 

Boil  1  cup  maple  syrup  and  \  cup  butter  together,  to  the  soft 
ball  stage.  Beat  two  egg  yolks  well,  add  1  dessert  spoon  sweet 
cream  to  them,  beat  well,  pour  over  the  boiling  hot  syrup,  beat  until 
cold  and  thick  enough  to  spread. 

LEMON  FILLING. 

H  cups  sugar ;  1  tablespoon  corn  starch  ; 

1  teaspoon  butter;  1  egg; 

2  lemons,  juice  of ;  Grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 
1  cup  boiling  water ; 

Boil  sugar,  water  and  butter  together.  Dissolve  corn  starch  in 
the  lemon  juice,  and  beat  egg  yolk.  Pour  boiling  syrup  over  it,  re- 
turn to  sauce  pan  and  let  raise  the  boil.    Cool  and  spread. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  133 


ORANGE  FILLING. 

1J  cups  sugar ;  3  egg  yolks  ; 

1  teaspoon  butter ;  1  cup  boiling  water ; 

1  lemon,  juice  of;  2  oranges,  juice  of. 

Prepare  the  same  as  lemon  sauce. 

CARMEL  FILLING. 

1J  cups  brown  sugar ;  2  tablespoons  corn  starch ; 

1  cup  water ;  Pinch  of  salt ; 

J  cup  cream ;  Flavor  with  vanilla. 
^  cup  butter ; 

Put  the  sugar  in  a  sauce  pan  and  dry  melt,  stirring  all  the 
time.  When  all  is  melted  pour  in  the  water  and  add  butter.  When 
all  is  dissolved,  blend  cream  and  corn  starch  over  which  pour  the 
hot  syrup.  Return  to  pan  and  simmer  until  the  right  consistency 
is  reached.     Very  nice  for  dark  cakes. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  FILLING. 

Mix  .1  cup  sugar  and  J  cup  cocoa  together.  Pour  in  sauce  pan 
with  \  cup  boiling  water  and  boil  to  the  soft  ball  stage.  Pour  over 
two  well-beaten  eggs  blended  with  ore  desert  spoon  of  sweet  cream. 
Beat  until  cold  before  spreading. 

FIG  FILLING. 

Make  the  same  as  carmel  filling,  add  1  pound  of  coarse  ground 
figs  and  grated  peel  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  juice  from  one  orange 
and  \  of  the  grated  peel;  omit  the  cream. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI  FILLING. 

1  cup  whipped  cream ;  f  cup  pulverized  sugar ; 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  ;  \  cup  raisins  ; 
\  cup  figs ;  \  cup  citron. 

Have  the  cream  ver}r  cold.  Whip  stiff,  add  sugar,  nuts  and 
fruit  until  the  right  consistency  to  spread. 

BOILED  WHITE  ICING. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar ;  1  teaspoon  corn  syrup  ; 
1  cup  boiling  water;                            Pinch  of  salt. 
Whites  of  2  large  eggs ; 


134  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


Boil  sugar,  water  and  corn  syrup  together,  to  the  soft  ball 
stage.  While  it  is  boiling,  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  the  salt 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Gently  pour  on  a  little  at  a  time  and  set  syrup  back 
on  stove  to  keep  hot  until  beaten  a  few  seconds,  pour  on  some  more 
and  beat  again.  Pour  on  the  remainder  and  beat  until  it  is  thick 
enough  not  to  run  off  of  the  cake.  Be  careful  that  it  does  not  go  to 
sugar.     Flavor  with  lemon  and  vanilla. 

MARSHMALLOW  ICING. 

Make  the  same  as  above  only  omit  syrup.  Wash  the  starch  off 
of  2  or  3  marshmallows,  drop  in  the  boiling  syrup  before  pouring 
over  eggs  as  in  white  icing.  Let  get  nearly  cold  before  spreading. 
Flavor  with  lemon. 

CREAM  FONDANT  ICING. 

3  cups  sugar ;  J  cup  milk  ; 

^  cup  water ;  (-J  cup  sweet  Tiny  pinch  of  salt, 

cream)  ; 

Put  water  in  a  sauce  pan  then  add  the  milk,  cream  and  sugar. 
Boil  gently  to  the  soft  ball  stage.  Cool  until  it  is  only  milk  warm 
and  stir  the  same  as  cream  candy.  Knead  well,  remelt  by  placing 
in  a  double  boiler  and  spread.    Use  desired  flavors. 

ICING  FOR  DECORATIONS. 

The  white  of  one  egg  unbeaten ;  color  with  2  or  3  drops  of  Da- 
mask rose  cake  coloring.  Add  sifted  powdered  sugar  until  the  right 
consistency  to  run  through  a  forcing  bag. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

2  squares  bitter  chocolate ;  2   tablespoons   cold   water. 

Enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  right  consistency  to  spread. 
Melt  chocolate  in  a  bowl,  pour  in  the  cold  water,  just  a  little 
at  a  time.  Beat  until  it  is  a  thick  smooth  paste,  then  add  sugar  and 
beat  until  smooth.  Spread  immediately,  add  a  little  vanilla  and  a 
pinch  of  salt. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI  ICING. 

Boil  1  cup  of  water,  with  3  cups  of  white  sugar,  to  the  soft  ball 
stage ;  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  pour  the  syrup 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


135 


over  them,  beating  until  it  is  cool ;  then  add  one-half  pound  of  finely 
chopped  almonds,  one  small  half  cup  of  raisins,  a  little  citron  sliced 
thin  and  one-half  cup  chopped  figs.  This  is  very  nice  for  sponge- 
cake. 

GOLDEN  ICING. 

Boil  2  cups  of  sugar  and  1  of  water  to  the  soft  ball  stage.  Into 
2  well  beaten  yolks  stir  1  teaspoonful  of  cream,  pour  over  them  the 
syrup.    Beat  well  until  stiff  enough  to  spread. 


136  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


MEMORANDA 


LEMONADE. 

Juice  of  half  a  lemon,  one  teaspoon  white  sugar,  one  goblet  of 
water.     Grate  into  it  a  little  peel  if  desired. 

HOT  LEMONADE. 

Is  made  the  same  way,  except  use  hot  water.  It  is  good  for 
colds  and  biliousness. 

ORANGE  WHEY. 

The  juice  of  one  orange  to  one  pint  sweet  milk.  Heat  slowly 
until  curds  form,  strain  and  cool.     Good  drink  after  confinement. 

EGG  LEMONADE. 

White  of  one  egg,  one  tablespoon  pulverized  sugar.  Juice  of 
one  lemon,  one  goblet  of  water.  Beaten  together.  Very  good  for 
inflammation  of  lungs,  stomach  or  bowels. 

GUM  ARABIC  WATER. 

One  teaspoon  gum  arabic,  one  goblet  cold  water,  stand  until 
it  dissolves.    Flavor  with  juice  of  lemon,  orange,  or  any  other  fruit. 

JELLY  WATER. 

Sour  jellies  dissolved  in  water  make  a  pleasant  drink  for  fever 
patients. 

OATMEAL  TEA. 

Two  tablespoons  rawT  oatmeal  to  one  quart  cold  water,  stand 
two  hours  in  a  cool  place,  then  drain  off  as  it  is  wanted.  Nourish- 
ing in  convalescence,  and  an  unequalled  drink  for  harvesters  or 
moulders. 

FLAXSEED  LEMONADE. 

Two  tablespoons  of  whole  flaxseed  to  a  pint  of  boiling  water; 
Jet  it  stand  until  cool,  then  strain  and  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons 
and  two  tablespoons  honey.  Invaluable  for  coughs  and  suppression 
of  urine. 


138  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


ORANGEADE. 

Juice  of  one  orange  and  a  little  of  the  peel  grated,  juice  of  half 
a  lemon,  1  well  beaten  egg  and  \  cup  granulated  sugar.  Beat  all 
together  and  add  1  pint  of  ice  water. 

EGG-NOGG. 

Cream  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  \  cup  granulated  sugar  to- 
gether until  light,  add  one  teaspoon  brandy  and  one  pint  of  new 
milk  and  a  little  nutmeg,  a  speck  of  salt,  stir  well,  drink  between 
meals.     Good  for  consumptives. 

BEEF  TEA. 

Grind  one  pound  lean  beef,  put  into  a  pint  of  water  and  rub 
with  the  hands  until  all  the  juice  is  out  and  nothing  remains  but  a 
white  fiber.  Put  all  together  in  a  tight  vessel  and  cook  for  one-half 
hour.  Salt  to  taste. 

RICE  GRUEL. 

Two  tablespoons  rice,  one  quart  cold  water;  steep  slowly  one 
hour ;  strain  through  a  gravy  strainer ;  add  a  little  cream  and  salt. 

GRUEL  FROM  RICE  FLOUR. 

Wet  one  tablespoon  flour,  stir  into  boiling  water,  cook  five 
minutes. 

MILK  PORRIDGE. 

1  pint  rich  milk,  1  teaspoon  level  full  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  but- 
ter. When  boiling  hot  stir  in  a  handful  of  fine  rivels  made  from  \ 
cup  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  enough  cold  milk  to  make  the  rivels 
fine.  Sprinkle  into  the  boiling  milk  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes,  be- 
ing careful  not  to  scorch  it.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  it  is  ready  to 
eat. 

Milk  should  always  be  put  in  a  cold  vessel  which  has  been 
slightly  greased  with  soft  butter.     This  prevents  burning. 

CORN  TEA. 

Parch  common  corn  until  browned  through,  grind,  and  pour 
on  boiling  water.  Drink  with  or  without  cream.  Excellent  for 
nausea,  vomiting  and  diarrhoea. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  139 


BRAN  GRUEL. 

Boil  for  half  an  hour  one  pint  of  bran  of  white  wheat  in  three 
pints  of  water.  Strain  through  a  gravy  strainer  and  add  a  little 
salt.  This  is  a  good  gruel  for  fevers  and  inflammations.  Makes  a 
good  drink  by  thinning  and  adding  lemon  juice. 

CORN  MEAL  GRUEL. 

One  tablespoon  finely  sifted  corn  meal  wet  in  cold  water.  Have 
one  quart  boiling  water  in  a  gruel  pan,  dip  a  spoonful  of  this  thin 
cold  batter  into  the  water,  stir,  let  it  boil  up,  and  then  add  another^ 
spoonful,  and  so  on  until  the  gruel  is  of  the  right  consistency.     Let 
it  boil  briskly  twenty  minutes  or  more.     Salt  to  taste. 

OATMEAL  GRUEL. 

Stir  two  tablespoons  of  oatmeal  in  one  quart  boiling  water.  If 
the  meal  is  coarse,  boil  one  hour  and  strain  through  a  gravy  strainer. 
Wheatlet  gruel  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner. 

BAKED  MILK. 

Put  half  a  gallon  of  milk  in  a  jar  and  tie  over  it  writing  paper. 
Let  it  stand  in  a  moderate  oven  eight  or  ten  hours.  It  will  be  like 
cream,  and  is  good  for  consumptives  and  invalids. 

BUTTERMILK  POP. 

Put  one  quart  of  buttermilk  and  a  pinch  of  salt  in  a  sauce  pan. 
Stir  well,  while  boiling,  add  two  tablespoons  flour  which  has  been 
rubbed  with  one  teaspoon  of  milk  into  fine  rivels.  Stir  into  the 
boiling  milk  and  cook  well.  Good  in  nausea  and  heartburn  of  preg- 
nancy, also  for  nervous  dyspepsia.    Sweeten  to  taste. 

BUTTERMILK. 

Buttermilk,  when  sweet  and  fresh  from  the  churn,  is  nutritious 
and  wholesome.  It  contains  about  88  per  cent  of  water,  4  of  nitro- 
genous food,  3  of  sugar,  only  a  trifle  of  fat,  and  considerable  mineral 
matter,  by  some  estimated  at  over  5  per  cent.  There  is  also  a  small 
amount  of  lactic  acid.  As  a  heat  producing  food,  it  is  poor.  There 
are  many  forms  of  dyspepsia  in  which  it  "will  set  on  the  stomach" 
when  hardly  anything  else  will.  Often  in  fevers,  this  organ  becomes 
rebellious  from  the  effects  of  large  amounts  of  medicine,  and  it  is  then 


140  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


a  serious  question  how  to  nourish  the  patient.     In  such  cases  butter- 
milk is  sometimes  found  to  be  the  best  food  that  can  be  given. 

In  diabetes  it  may  be  emploj^ed  as  a  chief  article  of  diet  to  great 
advantage.  Corpulent  people  who  will  not  adopt  the  bread  and 
fruit  regimen  and  take  much  exercise,  may  use  buttermilk  in  prefer- 
ence to  milk.  It  may  be  put  in  clean  bottles  and  canned  or  sealed, 
as  in  preserving  fruit,  and  kept  for  a  long  time.  After  a  little,  one 
becomes  fond  of  the  taste  and  relishes  it.  It  ought  not  be  allowed  to 
stand  until  it  is  bitter  before  using. 

From  a  Nurse. 

HOT  MILK. 

Take  nine  parts  of  milk  and  one  part  of  water,  and  heat  at  110 
F.  in  a  milk  boiler.  Sipping  this  slowly,  the  saliva  combines  with  the 
milk,  and  this  with  the  added  water  will  prevent  coagulation  in  the 
stomach ;  hence  will  be  taken  up  at  once  by  the  absorbents.  This  is 
valuable  food  in  morning  sickness  of  pregnancy  and  for  nursing 
women.    It  is  also  good  in  low  fevers  and  nervous  dyspepsia. 

The  Medical  Record,  speaking  of  hot  milk  as  a  beverage,  says : 
"Milk  tested  too  much  above  100F.  loses  for  the  time  a  degree  of 
its  sweetness  and  its  density.  No  one  who,  fatigued  by  over  exertion 
of  body  or  mind,  has  ever  experienced  the  reviving  influence  of  a 
tumbler  of  this  beverage,  heated  as  hot  as  it  can  be  sipped,  will  wil- 
lingly forego  a  resort  to  it  because  of  its  having  been  rendered  some- 
what less  acceptable  to  the  palate.  The  promptness  with  which  its 
cordial  influence  is  felt  is  indeed  surprising.  Some  portion  of  it 
seems  to  be  digested  and  appropriated  almost  immediately;  and 
many  who  now  fancy  they  need  alcoholic  stimulants  when  exhausted 
by  fatigue,  will  find  in  this  simple  draught  an  equivalent  that  shall 
be  abundantly  satisfying,  and  far  more  endurable  in  its  effects. 

From  a  Nurse. 

CHICKEN  BROTH. 

In  one  quart  of  water  boil  the  dark  meat  of  half  a  chicken  with 
a  teaspoon  of  rice  or  barley ;  skim  off  the  fat ;  use  as  soon  as  the  rice 
is  well  done.  When  taken  up  add  a  few  narrow  strips  of  bread 
toasted,  not  too  brown. 

MACARONI  SOUP. 

Into  a  quart  of  boiling  water  put  a  handful  of  macaroni  broken 
into  inch  pieces.  Let  it  boil  an  hour,  then  add  two  cups  of  strained 
stewed  tomato,  and  just  before  serving  pour  in  half  a  cup  of  cream. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  141 


PUREE  OF  SPLIT  PEAS. 

1  quart  of  split  peas.  Soak  over  night.  Put  on  in  hot  water.  Boil 
two  hours  slowly.  Put  through  the  colander.  Heat  in  the  kettle  a 
cup  of  sweet  cream,  into  which  has  been  stirred  two  large  spoonfuls 
of  graham  flour,  or  that  of  entire  wheat,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  When 
it  thickens,  return  the  peas  to  the  kettle  and  stir.    Then  set  back. 

CRACKED  OR  ROLLED  WHEAT. 

In  two  quarts  boiling  water  stir  one  pint  cracked  wheat.  Half 
a  teaspoon  salt.  Use  a  double  kettle,  and  cook  three  hours  without 
stirring.  When  done,  mould  in  dishes.  Eat  hot  or  cold  with  fruit- 
sauce  or  cream  and  sugar.  Excellent  in  constipation  or  biliousness. 
The  rolled  wheat  is  preferable.  Not  being  able  to  procure  it  ready 
prepared,  one  can  crack  wheat  in  an  ordinary  coffee  mill. 

GRAHAM  MUSH. 

Stir  graham  flour  into  boiling  water  slowly,  until  it  makes  a  thick 
batter.  Set  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  ten  minutes,  then  beat  two 
minutes  and  turn  into  a  dish.  To  be  eaten  with  fruit  juice  or  cream 
and  sugar. 

RICE  AND  RAISINS. 

Three  cups  boiling  water,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  rice,  half 
cup  raisins.  Mix  well  together.  Cook  in  steamer  or  boiler.  Mould 
and  eat  warm  or  cold,  with  cream  or  fruit  sauce. 

RICE  SNOW. 

One  quart  sweet  milk,  five  tablespoons  rice  flour  or  corn  starch, 
one-half  cup  sugar,  whites  of  four  eggs.  Boil  the  milk,  stir  in  the 
rice  flour  moistened,  and  add  the  sugar.  When  cold  whip  a  little  at 
a  time  into  the  well  beaten  eggs,  after  which  beat  well  again.  Mould  and 
serve  with  cream  or  fruit  sauce. 

POACHED  EGGS. 

In  a  buttered  skillet  one-half  full  of  boiling  water,  place  muffin 
rings.  Drop  the  eggs  in  them  and  set  on  oven  grate  until  done.  Re- 
move the  rings  and  the  eggs  will  be  nicely  moulded  and  evenly 
cooked. 


142  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


EGGS  POACHED  IN  MILK. 

Take  one  cup  of  milk,  half  a  cup  of  water,  when  boiling  break  in 
six  eggs,  cook  slowly  and  serve  on  toast.  Good  for  nervous  head- 
ache. The  milk  prevents  the  poisonous  effect  of  the  sulphur  in  the 
eggs,  and  the  nerves  get  decided  nutriment. 

MILK  TOAST. 

Butter  a  cold  sauce  pan,  pour  in  1  pint  of  fresh  milk,  dissolve  1 
dessert  spoon  of  corn  starch  in  \  cup  cold  cream,  stir  in  the  boiling 
milk,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Cook  1  minute, 
pour  over  half  a  dozen  slices  of  bread  which  have  been  toasted  slowly 
and  well.    Serve  at  once. 

CRACKER  TOAST. 

Make  the  same  as  milk  toast  adding  twice  as  much  sugar  with  a 
little  grated  nutmeg.  Pour  over  crackers  that  have  been  heated  in 
the  oven  until  crisp.    This  pleases  the  children. 

HUCKLEBERRY  TOAST. 

Stew  one  quart  fresh  huckleberries,  add  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
sweeten  to  taste,  dissolve  one  tablespoon  corn  starch  in  \  cup  warm 
water,  stir  into  the  boiling  fruit.  Pour  over  well  toasted  white  bread. 
Other  kinds  of  fruits  may  be  used  instead  of  huckleberries. 

Battle  Creek  Sanitarium. 

ASPARAGUS  TOAST. 

Cook  young  tender  asparagus  tips  in  the  same  manner  as  peas. 
Serve  on  hot  buttered  toast. 

CHEESE  TOAST. 

Toast  thin  slices  of  bread  an  even,  crisp  brown.  Place  on  a  warm 
plate,  allowing  one  small  slice  to  each  person,  and  sprinkle  over  it 
rich,  new  cheese.     Serve  while  warm. 

MILK  AND  EGG  TOAST. 

Put  a  generous  \  cup  of  new  milk  into  a  granite  cup,  let  it  raise 
the  boil,  then  put  in  a  thin  piece  of  toasted  bread,  two  inches  square, 
remove  from  fire  and  immediately  stir  in  a  fresh  egg  which  has  been 
slightly  beaten,  cover  a  moment,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  serve. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  143 


BREAD  should  always  be  put  in  a  warming  closet  and  dried 
well  before  toasting,  then  toasted  a  light  brown,  especially  for  the 
sick,  otherwise  it  is  very  harmful  as  it  causes  fermentation  of  the 
stomach. 

Mrs.  James  L.  Hartsell,  Huntington,  Ind. 

JUNKET. 

Put  \  a  junket  tablet  in  a  cup  with  1  teaspoon  cold  water,  mash 
with  the  finger  until  dissolved,  put  1  pint  new  milk  into  a  double 
boiler,  add  \  cup  sugar  and  any  desired  flavoring,  stir  well,  when 
milk  warm,  add  the  dissolved  junket  tablet  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
1  well  beaten  egg.  Stir  again,  put  in  a  warm  place  to  set.  It  will 
have  the  appearance  of  a  delicate  custard  and  is  very  nourishing  for 
consumptives.     Should  be  taken  between  meals. 

SAGO  CREAM. 

Wash  the  sago,  put  on  in  boiling  milk,  and  boil  until  thick.  Like 
tapioca  sweeten  and  flavor  with  nutmeg. 

IRISH  MOSS  PUDDING. 

1  cup  Irish  Moss ;  1  tablespoon  butter ; 

1  cup  sugar ;  A  pinch  of  salt  and  flavoring. 

1  quart  milk; 

Pick  the  dark  particles  from  the  moss,  wash  well,  and  soak  a 
few  minutes  in  cold  water.  It  will  swell  up  like  a  sponge.  Squeeze 
and  dry,  drop  into  the  boiling  milk  and  cook  until  thick  as  ordinary 
gravy.  Cool  and  eat  plain  or  with  any  desired  sauce.  The  moss 
should  be  measured  after  it  is  cleaned. 

PLAIN  BLANC  MANGE. 

May  be  made  in  the  same  manner,  omitting  the  sugar,  and  can 
be  eaten  with  sweetened  cream. 

ARROW-ROOT  BLANC  MANGE. 

Pour  into  1  pint  of  boiling  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  arrowroot  rub- 
bed to  a  paste  with  -J-  cup  warm  milk,  \  cup  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  flavor  with  rose-water.  Stir  briskly  until  done,  pour  into  a 
mould  wet  in  ice  water,  serve  when  cold  with  sweetened  cream  or 
foamy  sauce. 

IRISH  MOSS  can  be  bought  at  any  up-to-date  drug  store. 


144  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


RICE  FOR  THE  SICK. 

Wash  well  in  cold  water,  drain  well  and  drop  slowly  into  boiling 
water,  with  a  little  salt  in  it,  (the  water  should  cover  it  several  in- 
ches) shake  well  and  boil  slowly  for  five  minutes,  put  in  a  fireless 
cooker  over  night,  season  with  butter,  cream  and  sugar,  heat  again 
to  boiling  point. 

OAT-MEAL  WITH  RAISINS. 

The  meal  should  be  poured  into  boiling  salt  water,  cook  same  as 
rice  before  placing  in  cooker,  season  with  butter  and  add  J  cup  of 
seeded  raisins,  cook  over  night,  serve  with  sweetened  cream.  If 
cooked  on  the  stove  set  vessel  on  an  asbestos  mat  and  cook  very  slowly, 
shake  often  but  do  not  stir. 

RICE  OMELET. 

Two  cups  boiled  rice,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  eggs.  Stir  to- 
gether with  egg  beater,  and  put  into  a  hot  buttered  skillet.  Cook 
slowly  ten  minutes,  stirring  frequently. 

RICE  CREAM. 

Thicken  a  pint  of  scalding  milk  with  rice  flour  to  the  consist- 
ency of  cream;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Beat  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  put  a  half  ounce  of  gelatine  into  half  pint  of  cold 
water;  when  well  soaked,  place  over  the  fire  until  the  gelatine  is 
dissolved;  when  cool,  beat  to  a  froth  with  an  egg  beater,  mix  with 
the  egg  and  milk. 

RICE  (JAPANESE  METHOD.) 

Only  enough  water  is  poured  on  the  rice  to  prevent  burning. 
Cover  tightly  and  set  over  a  moderate  fire  until  nearly  done.  Re- 
move cover  to  allow  moisture  to  escape.  The  rice  turns  out  a  mass 
of  snow  white  separate  kernels,  each  burst  open  like  a  mealy  po- 
tato. 

It  is  far  less  trouble  to  cover  the  dish  tightly  and  cook  it  in  a 
steamer. 

UNLEAVENED  BREAD. 

Mix  entire  wheat  flour  with  ice  cold  water,  to  a  stiff  dough; 
knead  for  four  or  five  minutes;  cut  in  small  pieces  and  roll  into 
cakes  size  of  clothes-pins.    Bake  on  wire  pan  or  toaster  in  hot  oven 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  145 


leaving  room  to  rise.    Very  light  and  sweet.     An  addition  of  raisins 
and  hickory  nut  meats  is  much  enjoyed. 

OATMEAL  SNAPS. 

Mix  one  cup  sweet  cream  and  three  tablespoons  sugar ;  add  fine 
oatmeal  till  stiff;  knead  lightly;  roll  to  the  thickness  of  an  eighth 
of  an  inch ;  cut  in  shapes ;  bake  crisp  in  moderate  oven. 

GRAHAM  FRUIT  CRACKERS. 

Two-thirds  cup  sweet  cream;  one  cup  dried  currants  picked 
and  washed,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  soda,  one-half  teaspoon  cream 
tartar.  Use  equal  parts  graham  and  white  flour  to  make  a  very 
stiff  dough.  Roll  out  less  than  an  eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 
Cover  thickly  with  the  fruit.  Lay  on  another  sheet  of  the  dough, 
pass  the  rolling  pin  over  it.  Cut  in  shapes ;  prick  deeply ;  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  thoroughly. 

SWEET  CREAM  BISCUITS. 

\  cup  sweet  cream;  \  cup  of  sweet  milk; 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  \  teaspoon  salt. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough,  roll  thin  and 
bake  well  done.     These  biscuits  are  very  wholesome. 

INFANTS'  MILK  PORRIDGE. 

Tie  one  cup  sifted  flour  in  a  cloth  very  tight.  Drop  into  boil- 
ing water  and  boil  for  1  or  more  hours.  Take  from  the  water,  hang 
up  to  drain  and  cool.  When  cold  remove  cloth  and  peel  off  the 
damp  coating  and  grate  like  chalk  into  boiling  milk  with  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  \  teaspoon  sugar  well  boiled  in  it. 

This  is  an  old  remedy.  My  mother  used  it  for  summer  com- 
plaint. 

BABY  FOOD. 

Wash  well  1  cup  best  rolled  oats  in  1  pint  of  cold  water,  until 
the  starch  is  all  washed  out,  strain  through  a  fine  wire  strainer, 
throw  away  the  hulls.  Let  the  water  stand  until  the  starch  settles 
to  the  bottom  (as  cold  starch  does),  drain  off  all  but  one  spoonful 
and  boil  again  with  1  teaspoon  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Stir  up 
the  starch  and  the  remaining  spoonful  of  water.  Stir  into  the  boil- 
ing mixture.     Let  boil  5  minutes,  pour  in   1   cup   pure     separated 


146  THE  IDEAL  COOKBOOK 

cream  and  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point.  Put  in  a  cool  place  and 
use  as  needed.  If  too  thick  add  a  little  hot  water  and  more  sterilized 
cream. 

This  is  much  better  than  any  prepared  baby  food. 

WHOOPING  COUGH  SYRUP. 

Grate  enough  sweet  Spanish  onions  to  make  one  pint  pulp.  Add 
1  cup  of  water  and  boil  5  minutes,  strain  and  add  enough  sugar  to 
make  it  palatable,  1  ounce  of  glycerine,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon. 
Add  a  little  rock  candy  and  boil,  skim  and  bottle.  Omit  the  lemon 
juice  for  babies  using  milk.  Give  a  teaspoonful  several  times  a  day, 
and  at  bed  time. 

This  has  been  tried  in  my  own  family,  and  can  not  be  excelled. 
This  recipe  was  written  by  request. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  147 


MEMORANDA 


I 

BREAKFAST  AND 
TEA  DISHES 

s 

CORNMEAL  MUSH. 

Put  I  cup  butter  in  the  bottom  of  a  stew  kettle,  rub  bottom  well 
pour  in  water  when  it  boils,  salt  to  taste  and  add  1  teaspoon  of  sugar. 
Sift  in  meal  gently,  letting  it  boil  between  times,  so  that  it  will  not 
taste  raw.  Stir  well  5  minutes,  set  back  to  cook  slowly  for  10  min- 
utes longer. 

GRAHAM  MUSH. 

Make  from  unsifted  graham  flour  in  the  same  manner  as  corn 
mush.  , 

FLOUR  MUSH  OR  MINUTE  PUDDING. 

Put  fresh  milk  on  to  boil  in  a  buttered  stew  pan.  Add  1  table- 
spoon of  sugar  and  salt  to  taste.  Stir  in  white  or  whole  wheat  flour 
until  thick  as  graham  mush.     Serve  with  sweetened  cream. 

PRIED  MUSH. 

Cut  into  slices  J  inch  thick.  Roll  in  corn  meal  and  fry  in  hot 
lard. 

MOCK  LYE  HOMINY. 

Pick  and  wash  2  pounds  of  cracked  store  hominy,  pour  3  times 
its  bulk  of  boiling  water  over  it,  set  on  fire  where  it  will  almost  reach 
the  boiling  point  for  J  day  or  better.  When  very  tender  and  mushy 
put  in  \  teacup  weak  lye  made  from  wood  ashes.  Stir  well,  salt  to 
taste.  This  is  just  as  good  as  the  old  fashioned  lye  hominy  and 
does  not  lose  any  of  its  nutriment,  and  is  much  less  trouble.  Season 
with  bacon  or  ham  fryings. 

FRENCH  FRIED  BREAD. 

Cut  slices  of  bread  3  inches  square.  Beat  two  eggs  slightly,  add 
1  tablespoon  sweet  cream,  pepper  and  salt  and  fry  a  rich  brown  in 
butter  and  lard.     Serve  with  lemon  sauce  and  raisins. 

FRIED  BREAD  WITH  CINNAMON. 

Break  stale  bread  in  inch  bits,  fry  in  butter  and  lard.  Stir  as 
it  fries.     When  done  pour  a  spoonful  of  water  into  one  side,  cover 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  119 

and  steam  a  moment.     Lift,  dust  with  cinnamon  and  serve  with  hot 
syrup.    This  is  excellent. 

MUSH  AND  OYSTERS  FRIED. 

Cook  3  pints  of  corn  meal  mush  until  well  done,  stir  in  1  pint 
of  fresh  oysters  carefully,  cover  and  let  stand  a  moment,  pour  into 
a  granite  pan,  when  cold  slice  J  inch  thick,  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  roll 
in  very  fine  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  a  rich  brown,  garnish  with 
celery  sprigs. 

Mrs.   Orma   Curless. 

EGGS  IN  A  NEST. 

Whites  of  6  eggs  beaten  stiff,  with  a  J  teaspoon  of  salt.  Pour 
in  a  butter  casserole  or  baking  dish.  Make  6  holes  size  of  small 
egg,  put  a  yolk  in  each  hole  and  pour  1  tablespoon  of  cream  over 
each  yolk.  Dust  with  salt  and  pepper.  Bake  or  steam  until  whites 
are  well  set.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley.  Serve  very  hot.  This 
makes  a  very  nice  Easter  dish. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Break  J  dozen  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little 
minced  parsley  or  celery  sprigs.  and  3  tablespoons  sweet  cream. 
Stir  slightly  with  fork.  Four  in  a  hot  buttered  frying  pan.  and  stir 
gently  until  creamy.     Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

JELLIED  EGGS. 

Put  as  many  eggs  as  are  wanted,  in  a  vessel,  cover  1  inch  with 
cold  water.  Set  over  a  medium  hot  fire,  let  come  to  the  boil.  The 
whites  will  be  a  delicate  tender  jelly  instead  of  tough  and  indigest- 
ible, and  the  yolk  will  be  just  right. 

HARD  BOILED  EGGS. 

Put  to  boil  in  the  same  manner  as  you  would  jellied  eggs.  Boil 
slowly  for  one  hour.  The  yolk  is  then  soft  and  creamy  and  is 
easily  digested. 

Battle    Creek   Sanitarium. 

POACHED  EGGS. 

Drop  eggs  carefully  into  boiling  water  1  inch  deep.  Place  in 
the  oven  on  the  grate.     The  top  will  be  coated  with  a  delicate  white 


150  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


jelly.     When   done  pour  off  the  water  and  lift  with   a  perforated 
pancake  turner. 

EGGS  A  LA  GOLDEN  ROD. 

Boil  four  eggs  for  twenty  minutes,  and  when  they  are  cold 
shell  and  dice  them ;  meanwhile  prepare  a  rich  cream  sauce  by  ad- 
ding to  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  the  same 
quantity  of  flour,  when  thoroughly  blended  add  about  2  cupfuls  of 
hot  milk;  as  soon  as  the  sauce  boils  season  it  highly  with  salt  and 
paprika,  adding  the  eggs  and  a  heaping  cupful  of  grated  cheese; 
cook  only  until  the  cheese  is  melted  and  serve  on  rounds  of  hot  but- 
tered toast  garnished  with  small  stuffed  olives. 

EGGS  A  LA  CREOLE. 

Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  -|  cup  of  sweet  cream  into 
a  sauce  pan  with  \  cup  minced  onion.  Let  simmer  a  few  minutes, 
add  a  cupful  of  tomatoes  and  cook  5  minutes.  Add  5  eggs  beaten 
together  and  stir  briskly  until  creamy. 

Aimee  Ware. 

CHEESE  OMELET. 

Mix  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour  with  one  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter. Cook  until  thoroughly  mixed,  Add  one  coffee  cup  of  milk, 
salt,  red  pepper,  two  heaping  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  yolks  of 
four  eggs  well  beaten.  Cook  and  stir  until  smooth.  Then  remove 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  turn 
into  well  greased  baking  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
for  20  or  30  minutes. 

Aimee  Ware. 

OMELET. 

Use  one  egg  for  each  person  and  one  extra.  Beat  yolks  and 
whites  separately.  To  yolks  add  one  tablespoonful  of  milk  for  each 
egg  and  one  extra,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Pour  yolks  into  hot  buttered 
skillet.  When  they  are  browned  on  the  bottom,  spread  whites  over 
them  and  brown  in  quick  oven.  Fold  over  when  removing  from 
skillet  and  serve  on  hot  platter. 

Aimee  Ware. 

OYSTER  OMELET. 

2  eggs  ;  12  oysters  ; 

3  tablespoons  cream ;  J  cup  strained  oyster  liquor ; 
1  tablespoon  butter;                            Pepper  and  salt. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  151 


Prepare  the  oyster  filling  before  beginning  to  cook  the  omelet. 
Strain  the  oysters  and  cut  them  with  scissors  into  small  pieces.  Make 
a  white  sauce  from  the  butter,  eggs,  oyster  liquor,  cream  and  season- 
ings. When  hot  and  creamy,  put  in  the  chopped  oysters  and  cook 
a  few  minutes.  Set  the  sauce  over  boiling  water  to  keep  hot  while 
making  the  omelet.  When  ready  pour  over  the  oyster  mixture, 
and  serve  immediately. 

HAM  OMELET. 

Sprinkle  i  teaspoonful  minced  ham  over  the  top  of  an  omelet, 
before  the  egg  begins  to  set ;  let  it  cook  for  a  minute  or  two  longer, 
then  set  in  the  oven  as  directed,  and  serve  hot. 

EGGS  IN  RAMEQUINS. 

Butter  small  ramequins  and  drop  a  raw  egg  into  each  one,  be- 
ing careful  that  it  remains  whole.  Set  the  ramequins  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water  and  put  it  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  eggs  are  set.  Put 
a  dab  of  butter  on  each  one  and  a  dust  of  pepper  and  salt  before 
taking  from  the  oven. 

RAMEQUINS. 

2  egg?  ;  2  ounces  of  melted  butter ; 

2  spoonfuls  of  flour ;  2  ounces  of  grated  cheese. 

Mix  all  well,  and  bake  it  in  molds  or  tart-pans  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour. 

BACON  AND  EGGS. 

Select  nice  lean  bacon,  fry  over  a  slow  fire.  Turn  often  to  pre- 
vent it  from  curling  and  burning  the  edges.  Place  on  a  platter. 
Break  fresh  eggs  in  the  hot  fat,  pour  a  teaspoon  boiling  water  in, 
and  cover  tightly  until  a  delicate  white  coating  forms  over  the  top. 
Take  up  and  place  on  bacon.     Garnish  with  parsley  or  celery  tops. 

HAM  AND  EGGS. 

Ham  is  best  fried  in  an  iron  skillet,  covered  with  a  perforated 
lid.  When  well  done,  take  up  on  a  platter  and  drop  in  as  many  eggs 
as  are  wanted.  When  whites  are  partly  cooked  pour  in  a  little 
water,  cover  and  steam  same  as  with  bacon,  garnish  with  parsley 
and  serve  at  once. 


152  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


WELCH  RAREBIT. 

1  cup  cheese;  2  dessert  spoons  flour; 

2  cups  milk ;  Salt  and  paprika  to  taste. 
1  heaping  tablespoon  butter ; 

Melt  the  butter,  blend  in  the  flour  and  add  the  milk,  let  it  come 
to  the  boil  and  stir  in  the  cheese,  which  should  be  broken  into  small 
bits,  take  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  the  cheese  melts,  season  and  serve 
on  crackers  immediately. 

Myrtle  Ware. 

RINGTUM  DIDDY. 

1  cupful  cheese ;  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter ; 

1  cup  milk ;  1  cup  tomato  juice ; 

1  tablespoon  flour ;  Salt  and  paprika. 
1  egg; 

Blend  the  flour  and  butter  as  for  rarebit,  add  the  tomato  juice 
and  when  it  boils  add  the  milk,  stir  well  and  add  the  beaten  egg 
and  the  cheese.  Let  remain  over  the  fire  only  long  enough  to  melt 
the  cheese,  stirring  all  the  while  to  prevent  the  mixture  from  being 
stringy,  season  after  lifting. 

Myrtle  Ware. 

CHEESE  FONDUE. 

Put  to  boil  one  pint  of  new  milk  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
in  it ;  dissolve  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and 
stir  in  the  boiling  milk ;  set  off  to  cool,  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste ;  add  five  ounces  of  grated  cheese  to  the  mixture,  and  four 
eggs  beaten  separately  until  very  light ;  mix  all,  and  pour  in  a  but- 
tered dish ;  bake  twenty  minutes.     Serve  at  once,  as  it  falls. 

CROQUETTES. 

All  croquettes  require  two  coatings  of  crums  before  frying  in 
fat.  The  dry  bread-crums  should  be  sifted  until  very  fine.  Break 
the  white  of  an  egg  into  a  shallow  plate  and  beat  slightly  with  a 
fork;  add  1  tablespoonful  of  cold  water.  After  the  croquettes  are 
shaped,  roll  in  crums  until  all  parts  are  covered.  Dip  in  the  egg, 
then  give  the  final  covering  of  crums,  taking  care  that  the  coating 
is  not  too  thick.  Fry  in  deep  fat  and  place  on  brown  paper.  Serve 
while  hot.     Meat  cutlets  may  be  rolled  in  crums  and  egg  and  fried 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  153 


in  deep  fat ;  also  cutlets  of  fish  shaped  with  a  wooden  skewer  may 
be  fried  in  the  same  manner. 

VEAL  CROQUETTES. 

2  cups  chopped  cold  cooked  1  cup  thick  sauce ; 

veal ;  Few  grains  cayenne  ; 

\  teaspoon  salt ;  Few  drops  onion  juice  ; 

\  teaspoon  pepper ;  Yolk  of  1  egg. 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  In  making  the  thick  white 
sauce,  use  rich  white  stock  in  place  of  milk.  Cool,  shape,  crumb 
and  fry  same  as  other  croquettes. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

1  pint  cold  cooked  chicken ;  1  teaspoonful  salt ; 

\  pint  milk ;  \  teaspoonful  nutmeg ; 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  but-  \  teaspoonful  pepper; 

ter;  Flour,  beaten  eggs,  cracker 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour;  crumbs,  lard. 
1  teaspoonful  onion  juice; 

Way  of  preparing — Chop  the  meat  very  fine.  Heat  the  milk  in 
a  double  boiler.  Cream  the  butter,  and  flour,  and  add  it  to  the  milk, 
then  add  the  onion  juice  and  seasonings.  Cook  until  you  have  a  thick 
sauce.  Pour  this  over  the  chopped  chicken,  and  mix  thoroughly, 
then  let  it  cool,  and  form  into  shapes.  Flour  lightly,  dip  shapes  in- 
to the  beaten  eggs,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Quantity — This  will  serve  six  persons. 

FISH  CROQUETTES. 

Pick  into  pieces,  taking  out  all  the  bones,  1  pound  of  any  cold 
fish;  heat  two  ounces  of  butter,  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet 
milk,  thicken  with  flour;  when  cooked,  add  one  beaten  egg,  the 
minced  fish,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon ;  spread  out  to  cool ;  form  in  croquettes,  dip  into  grated 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

If  cups  cold  flaked  salmon ;  Few  grains  cayenne ; 

1  cup  thick  white  sauce  ;  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice ; 

Salt ;  1  egg,  white. 


154  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 

Add  sauce  to  salmon,  then  add  seasonings,  then  the  well  beaten 
white  of  egg.  Spread  on  a  plate  to  cool,  shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg, 
and  crumbs  again,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 

SWEET  BREAD  CROQUETTES. 

1  pt.  cooked  and  chopped  1  cup  cream  (scant)  ; 

sweet-breads  ;  J  teaspoon  white  pepper ; 

4  tablespoons  chopped  mush-  A  dust  of  nutmeg; 

rooms ;  J  teaspoon  chopped  parsley ; 

2  tablespoons  butter;  2  eggs  ; 

1  tablepoon  flour ;  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

1  dessert  spoonful  salt ; 

Mix  all  the  seasoning  with  the  mushrooms  and  sweet  breads, 
and  set  aside  to  absorb  the  seasoning.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  the 
cream,  butter  and  flour,  pour  it  over  the  other  ingredients,  adding 
the  beaten  eggs  last.  Mix  well,  set  away  two  hours  to  stiffen,  then 
shape  into  croquettes.  Dip  in  egg  crumbs  and  fry  in  the  usual  way. 
Serve  with  any  desired  sauce. 

MACARONI  AND  CHEESE  CROQUETTES. 

2  cups  cold  boiled  macaroni,  \  cup  thick  white  sauce ; 

chopped;  \  cup  cold  boiled  ham  if 

4  tablespoons  cheese,  cut  fine ;  desired. 

Add  cheese,  ham  and  macaroni  to  sauce,  season  highly  with  salt 
and  cayenne,  cook  five  minutes ;  spread  on  a  plate  to  cool,  form  into 
croquettes.     Shape  and  finish  as  other  croquettes. 

LOBSTER  CROQUETTES. 

The  meat  of  1  good  sized  lob-  A  grating  of  nutmeg ; 

ster  (boiled)  ;  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste; 

1  tablespoon  butter ;  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice ; 

1  tablespoon  flour ;  Egg  and  bread  crumbs. 

J  cup  milk; 

Mix  all  together  and  fry  the  same  as  other  croquettes. 

SALMON  TIMBALES. 

1  can  red  salmon ;  1  cup  bread  crumbs ; 

2  eggs  well  beaten;  1  tablespoon  Worchester  sauce; 
2  tablespoons  lemon  juice ;                Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

1  cup  thick  white  sauce ; 

Salmon  or  oysters  are  excellent  escalloped  with  macaroni  in  the 
same  manner  as  cheese  and  macaroni. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  155 


WHITE  SAUCE. 

2  tablespoons  butter  ;  2  tablespoons  flour  ; 

I  teaspoon  salt ;  1  cup  milk. 

Drop  timbales  into  gem  pans ;  set  them  in  a  pan  with  1  inch  of 
water  to  bake,  cover  tops  with  waxed  paper. 

Mable  Wilcuts. 


CORN  OYSTERS. 

1  pint  can  of  corn ;  1  egg  beaten ; 

1  teaspoon  celery  salt ;  1  tablespoon  cream ; 

Season  to  taste  with  black  pepper  and  a  little  table  salt.  Mix 
all  together,  add  enough  fine  cracker  crumbs  to  make  the  mixture 
stiff  enough  to  form  into  small  cakes.  Fry  in  butter  and  lard  a 
deep  brown. 


CORN  CROQUETTES. 

1  cup  corn,  cut  or  \  teaspoon  onion  juice ; 

grated ;  Dash  of  pepper ; 

J  teaspoon  salt;  4  tablespoons  flour; 

2  tablespoons  butter ;  White  of  1  egg. 

Put  corn  and  seasonings  in  double  boiler,  and  when  hot.  add 
the  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together  to  a  paste ;  mix  well  and  cook 
for  five  minutes,  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  whites  of  the  egg 
well  beaten.     Shape  and  finish  as  other  croquettes. 


BEEF  AND  RICE  CROQUETTES. 

2  cups  finely  chopped  beef ;  2  cups  freshly  boiled  rice  ; 

1  teaspoon  salt;  J  teaspoon  pepper; 

Few  drops  onion  juice ;  Dash  of  nutmeg ; 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley;  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

Shape  in  croquettes,  break  an  egg  on  a  plate,  add  one  table- 
spoon of  hot  water,  and  beat  until  well  mixed,  dip  croquettes  first 
in  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat,  drain  on  ab- 
sorbent paper  in  a  warm  place. 


156  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


DELMONICO  POTATOES. 

1  quart  boiled  potatoes ;  |  cup  grated  cheese. 

3  cups  white  sauce ; 

Butter  baking  dish,  put  in  half  the  potatoes,  cover  with  half 
the  sauce,  sprinkle  with  cheese,  add  remaining  potatoes  and  sauce ; 
cover  with  cheese,  and  brown  in  hot  oven. 

Chipped  dried  beef,  added  to  escalloped  potatoes  improves 
them  greatly. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  157 


MEMORANDA 


158  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


MEMORANDA 


COFFEE. 

To  make  good  coffee  select  any  first  class  brand,  African  Java 
has  my  preference.  Allow  1  heaping  tablespoonful  for  each  person 
and  one  for  the  pot.  Use  the  white  of  1  egg  to  1  heaping  cup  (which 
equals  6  tablespoonfuls).  Put  in  coffee  pot,  or  use  a  first-class 
aluminum  percolator,  and  blend  well  together.  Pour  over  1  cup 
boiling  water  to  each  tablespoonful  of  coffee.  Set  back  on  the  range 
where  it  will  simmer  but  not  boil,  until  done.  Never  allow  coffee 
to  stand  from  one  meal  to  another,  or  warm  it  over.  That  is  how 
one  gets  the  poison  that  makes  rheumatism.  Fresh  boiling  water 
is  necessary  for  good  coffee  or  tea. 

TEA. 

To  make  tea  use  only  first-class  brands,  put  into  a  stone,  granite 
or  aluminum  tea  pot.  Pour  fresh  boiling  water  over  it,  set  where 
it  will  keep  hot  but  not  boil.  Or  fill  the  cups  with  fresh  boiling 
water  and  pass  a  tea  ball  and  let  each  person  make  their  own  tea  as 
strong  as  desired.     This  is  the  most  satisfactory  method. 

ITALIAN  CHOCOLATE. 

Cream  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar  to- 
gether until  very  light  and  foamy.  Dissolve  6  teaspoons  Bakers 
cocoa  in  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  stir  well,  add  5  more  cups  of  boiling 
water,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Let  all  boil  hard,  pour  over  the  eggs  and 
sugar  stirring  briskly.  Pour  into  cups  and  serve  at  once  with  a 
spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  the  top. 

GERMAN  CHOCOLATE. 

3  cups  boiling  water ;  2  egg  yolks  beaten ; 

1  cup  milk ;  6  teaspoons  Bakers  cocoa ; 

J  cup  whipped  cream ;  1  scant  cup  granulated  sugar ; 

Cream  sugar  and  eggs  together  until  light,  add  the  whipped 
cream.  Cook  water,  cocoa  and  milk  together  the  same  as  for  Italian 
chocolate  and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  eggs,  sugar  and  cream, 
stirring  briskly.  Cover  tight  for  a  moment  and  serve  with  a  marsh- 
mallow  on  top  of  each  cup. 


160  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


PLAIN  CHOCOLATE. 

Make  the  same  as  German  chocolate  omitting  the  eggs.  Serve 
without  the  marshmallow. 

LEMONADE. 

To  a  large  lemon  allow  1  cup  granulated  sugar  and  3  cups  water. 
When  ice  is  used  lessen  the  water.  Use  the  peel,  either  bruised  or 
grated,  strain  and  serve.  Add  a  well-beaten  egg  for  the  sick.  Les- 
sen the  sugar  for  sour  lemonade. 

ORANGEADE. 

To  each  lemon  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  two  oranges  and  3  cups 
water.  Grate  the  orange  peel,  pour  1  cup  boiling  water  over  the 
sugar,  add  the  grated  peel,  stir  until  sugar  is  all  dissolved,  add  the 
lemon  and  orange  juice  and  remaining  cups  of  water.  Cool  and 
serve  with  cracked  ice.    Eggs  may  be  added  or  not. 

RECEPTION  PUNCH. 

6  lemons ;  1  can  pineapple  diced ; 

1  can  white  cherries ;  Juice  of  pineapple ; 

1  can  sweet  white  grape  wine ;  2  oranges,  grated  peel  of ; 

1  bottle  Maraschino  cherries;  Extract  the  juice  from  the 
6  cups  granulated  sugar;  lemons  and  oranges. 

\  dozen  oranges ; 

Boil  the  sugar  with  2  cups  of  water  until  it  is  dissolved.  Add 
grated  peel  and  juices  from  the  fruit.  Add  one  gallon  or  more  of 
water  together  with  fruit  and  cracked  ice.  This  makes  nearly  two 
gallons  and  is  excellent.  Fresh  strawberry  juice  with  a  few  whole 
berries  makes  it  much  better. 

TEA  PUNCH. 

1  quart  boiling  water ;  2  cups  sugar ; 

4  teaspoons  tea;  3  lemons,  peel  and  juice; 

1  can  pineapple  and  juice ;  2  oranges,  peel  and  juice ; 

Make  the  same  as  reception  punch  adding  the  tea  after  it  is 
brewed  and  1  quart  extra  cold  water,  add  ice  and  serve. 

COLONIAL  MINT  CUP. 

6  oranges ;  \\  cups  sugar  boiled  in 

2  lemons ;  1  cup  water  and  cooled ; 
Whites  of  2  eggs;                              Mint  sauce  to  flavor. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  161 


Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  slightly.  Add  the  lemon  and  orange 
juice  strained  and  the  syrup.    Add  3  pints  of  ice  water  and  serve. 

ROSE  ICE. 

Wash  a  half  pint  of  rose  petals ;  pound  them  to  a  paste,  adding 
gradually  four  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar.  When  smooth 
add  a  quart  of  water  and  a  pound  of  sugar ;  boil  ten  minutes ;  do 
not  strain.  When  the  mixture  is  cold,  add  the  juice  of  four  oranges 
strained  through  cheese  cloth.  Freeze  carefully  and  serve  in  punch 
or  wine  glasses.    Garnish  with  fresh  rose  petals. 

Rose  extract  may  be  used  instead  of  leaves. 

NASTURTIUM  PUNCH 

Chop  fine  twenty-four  nasturtium  flowers ;  rub  them  with  a 
little  sugar  to  a  paste.  Boil  together  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  quart 
of  water  for  five  minutes ;  take  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  juice  of 
three  lemons  and  the  nasturtium  flowers.  Let  these  stand  until  per- 
fectly cold ;  add  four  tablespoons  of  claret  or  grape  juice.  Freeze 
the  mixture  and  serve  in  punch  glasses.  Especially  nice  with  mut- 
ton. A  nasturtium  flower  on  the  top  of  each  glass  makes  a  very 
pretty  garnish. 

GINGER  PUNCH. 

Boil  a  pound  of  sugar  with  a  quart  of  water;  add  the  juice  of 
three  lemons  and  when  cold  add  four  tablespoons  of  the  syrup  from 
the  preserved  ginger,  and  a  half  cup  of  the  ginger  chopped  very 
fine.  Freeze  and  serve  with  the  meat  course,  at  dinner.  If  preser- 
ved ginger  is  not  to  be  had,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  Jamacia 
ginger  to  the  sugar  and  water  before  they  are  boiled,  then  add  the 
chopped  candied  ginger. 

GREEN-GRAPE  COCKTAIL. 

Wash,  cut  in  halves,  and  seed  1-J  pounds  California  grapes.  Put 
on  ice  until  chilled.  Whip  the  whites  of  4  eggs  stiff,  and  beat  in 
1  cup  powdered  sugar  gradually.  Put  layers  of  grapes  in  cocktail 
glasses,  add  alternately  layers  of  fresh  shredded  grape  fruit,  sprinkled 
well  with  pulverized  sugar  and  repeat  until  glasses  are  f  full.  Put  the 
white  of  eggs  and  sugar  on  top,  garnish  with  chopped  nuts  or  Marischino 
cherries. 

STRAWBERRY  COCKTAIL. 

Select  well  ripened  strawberries,  cut  into  halves,  sprinkle  with  half 
their  bulk  in  sugar,  stand  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve.     Put  in  cocktail 


162  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


glasses,  pour  over  the  juice  from  two  oranges  and  put  a  spoonful  of 
whipped  cream  on  top  with  a  whole  strawberry  in  the  center. 

STRAWBERRY  WATER. 

Take  1  quart  of  dark  red  hulled  berries ;  crush  with  1  pint  of 
pulverized  sugar  and  \  pint  cold  water.  Grate  1  pineapple,  add  to 
it  1  quart  of  cold  water.  Put  all  together  in  a  bag  and  strain.  Set 
in  ice  chest  until  wanted. 

GRAPE  WINE. 

Take  twenty  pounds  of  Concord  grapes  after  they  are  stem- 
med, add  5  quarts  of  water,  crushing  the  grapes  in  the  water,  and 
put  them  into  a  porcelain  kettle;  stir  well  until  they  reach  the 
boiling  point.  Let  them  cook  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  then  strain 
through  a  cloth;  add  three  pounds  of  white  sugar;  when  the  sugar 
is  dissolved,  strain  again  through  a  cloth ;  heat  to  the  boiling  point 
again,  pour  it  into  pint  economy  or  self -sealing  jars  (the  former 
being  preferred)  and  seal.  Cook  only  in  porcelain  or  aluminum 
and  stir  with  an  aluminum  or  wooden  spoon  or  paddle,  as  scaled 
granite  or  iron  blackens  and  ruins  the  color  and  flavor. 

SHRUB  OF  NECTAR. 

To  one  quart  of  fruit  or  berries  crushed  pour  enough  cider  vin- 
egar to  cover,  add  1  quart  of  boiling  water,  juice  of  four  oranges, 
and  1  grated  pineapple,  and  sugar  to  taste.  Boil,  strain  and  seal 
as  for  grape  wine. 

DANDELION  WINE. 

Select  2  quarts  dandelion  blossom,  wash  well,  put  into  a  jar 
and  pour  one  gallon  of  boiling  water  over  them.  Let  stand  over 
night,  squeeze  out  blossoms  and  strain ;  add  the  juice  of  three 
oranges  and  three  lemons.  Cook  20  minutes.  Sweeten  to  taste, 
pour  back  into  the  jar,  soak  1  cake  of  yeast,  and  let  stand  1  week. 
Strain  and  bottle. 

Mrs.   Aaron   Sutton. 

ELDER  BLOSSOM  WINE. 

2  quarts  blossoms ;  3  pounds  raisins ; 

6  pounds  sugar;  3  lemons  sliced; 

2  gallons  water ;  4  oranges. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  163 


Wash  bunches  before  picking  from  the  stem,  measure,  boil 
sugar  and  water  together,  put  in  blossoms  and  as  soon  as  they  boil, 
cool  and  pour  in  a  large  stone  jar.  When  milk  warm  stir  in  two  cakes 
of  yeast  foam  previously  soaked,  let  stand  8  or  10  days.  Stir  morn- 
ing and  evening,  until  the  blossoms  come  to  the  top,  each  time 
strain  through  a  cloth,  add  raisins  seeded,  put  in  self-sealing  cans 
without  the  rubbers. 

CHERRY  WINE. 

When  canning  cherries  squeeze  out  all  the  juice,  which  im- 
proves them  for  canning.  Add  2  parts  juice  and  1  part  of  sugar. 
Cook  and  seal  for  sweet  wine,  leave  uncooked  for  fermented  wine. 
Let  stand  until  fermentation  ceases.  Bottle.  Fill  the  neck  of  the 
bottle  with  absorbent  cotton. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE. 

Take  equal  parts  of  berries  and  water,  crush  the  berries  well. 
After  they  are  measured  cook  together,  strain  as  for  jelly,  sweeten 
to  taste,  boil  again  and  seal  in  pine  Economy  jars. 

FERMENTED  BLACKBERRY  WINE. 

Crush  2  quarts  of  blackberries  with  1  quart  sugar.  Put  in  stone, 
jar  and  add  1  quart  fresh  rain  water,  stir  each  day  until  fermenta- 
tion ceases.  Strain  and  bottle  same  as  cherry  wine.  White  grape 
wine  is  nice  made  in  the  same  manner. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

Warm  and  squeeze  J  gallon  of  berries ;  add  to  them  one  pound 
of  white  sugar,  one-half  ounce  of  powdered  cinnamon,  one-fourth 
ounce  of  mace,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cloves.  Boil  all  together  for  one- 
fourth  of  an  hour;  strain  the  syrup,  and  to  each  pint  add  a  glass 
of  French  brandy.  Two  or  three  doses  of  a  tablespoonful  or  less 
will  arrest  dysentery,  if  given  in  season,  and  is  a  pleasant  and  safe 
remedy.     Excellent  for  children  when  teething. 

RAISIN  WINE. 

Chop  two  pounds  of  raisins,  add  2  lemons,  3  oranges,  2  pounds 
of  white  sugar,  and  about  two  gallons  of  boiling  water.  Pour  into 
a  stone  jar,  and  "stir  daily  for  six  or  eight  days.  Strain,  bottle  and 
put  in  a  cool  place  for  ten  days  or  so,  when  the  wine  will  be  ready 
for  use. 


164  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


MEMORANDA 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  165 


MEMORANDA 


CANNING  AND 
PRESERVING 


FRUIT  CANNING. 

THE  FIRST  STEP  in  successful  fruit  canning  is  perfect  steri- 
lization ;  second,  fresh  sound  fruit,  and  the  best  cans  obtainable. 
The  recipes  I  have  written  en  fruit  canning  are  only  for  the  fruits 
most  generally  canned  by  the  majority  of  housewives.  I  consider 
it  useless  to  write  anything  on  the  canning  of  vegetables,  as  the 
ECONMY  FRUIT  JAR  CO.  puts  out  a  book  with  each  dozen  cans 
giving  explicit  instructions,  for  canning  in  general,  which  are  ab- 
solutely reliable.  The  ECONOMY  is  the  only  jar  in  which  I  have 
ever  been  able  to  keep  vegetables.  I  have  fruit  and  vegetables  as 
bright  and  fresh  as  when  first  canned,  which  have  been  canned 
three  years  in  these  jars. 

TO  STERILIZE  FRUIT  CANS. 

Put  a_  wash  boiler  on  a  gasoline,  oil  ort  gas  stove,  as  the  fire  can 
be  regulated  as  desired  and  fill  half  full  of  pure  soft  water,  if  you 
have  it.  Lay  the  cans  in  on  their  sides  letting  them  fill  as  they 
sink  to  the  bottom  of  the  boiler.  For  wax  cans  sift  RED  SEAL 
LYE  and  a  little  soap  powder  over  the  top,  turn  fire  on  low  at  first, 
slowly  increasing  it  until  they  boil  ten  minutes,  turn  out  fire  and 
let  stand  until  cool.  The  wax  will  nearly  all  be  in  the  bottom  of 
the  boiler.  The  little  that  remains  can  be  washed  off  easily.  It  is 
a  good  plan  to  clean  several  boilerfuls  in  succession  so  one  cleaning 
of  the  boiler  will  do.  Wash  in  warm  soft  water,  scald  and  put 
away  in  a  closed  cupboard  right  side  up ;  always  keep  a  good  supply 
of  sterilized  cans  ready  for  emergencies,  this  way  one  is  always 
prepared  to  take  care  of  fruit  on  short  notice. 

Lye  need  not  be  used  for  other  cans,  use  plenty  of  baking  soda 
or  amonia  instead.  This  manner  of  sterilizing  cans  tempers  them 
as  well.  Always  lay  them  in  boiling  water,  a  few  minutes  before 
filling.  It  is  just  as  necessary  to  sterilize  the  lids,  as  the  cans.  Tin 
lids  should  not  be  used  but  once.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  lay  a  piece 
of  absorbent  cotton  on  top  of  the  fruit  before  putting  on  the  lid 
as  it  prevents  the  fruit  from  rising  to  the  top.  Last,  but  not  least, 
the  fruit  must  be  cooked  well  but  not  too  soft. 

Cans   should  never   be   set   away  with  the  lids   on,   as   it   gives, 
them  a  musty  odor. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  167 


It  is  a  good  plan  to  put  a  paper  flour  sack  in  the  bottom  of  the 
boiler  before  putting  in  the  cans,  as  this  keeps  the  greater  part  of  the 
wax  off  of  the  boiler.  The  flour  should  be  well  dusted  from  the  sack 
first. 

To  each  box  of  sealing  wax  add  J  teaspoonful  of  lard  to  pre- 
vent the  wax  from  coming  loose. 

TO  CAN  PINEAPPLE. 

Select  well  ripened  Indian  river  pineapples,  peel  off  the  rough 
bark  slightly,  then  peel  again  taking  off  below  the  eyes,  grind  this 
part  of  the  peel,  add  twice  its  bulk  in  water,  catch  the  juice  from 
the  grinder  and  put  with  it,  stew  well,  strain  and  sweeten  to  taste. 
Can  for  ices,  punch,  etc.  Slice  thin  and  core.  Cook  in  syrup,  seal 
in  economy  jars,  or  shred  in  half  inch  bits  and  can  for  fritters  and 
ices. 

TO  CAN  STRAWBERRIES. 

Use  only  fresh  sound  berries.  The  Dunlap,  a  large  dark  red 
berry  is  the  best  for  canning.  AYash  well  before  stemming,  use  one 
pint  of  sugar  to  three  of  berries,  put  in  a  crock  in  alternate  layers, 
let  stand  until  the  juice  covers  them,  drain  off  juice,  boil  and  skim 
well  before  adding  berries.  Cook  only  long  enough  to  heat  the 
berries  through  well.  Seal  in  Economy  jars  according  to  directions 
accompanying  the  cans. 

TO  CAN  CHERRIES. 

Pick  them  early  in  the  evening,  seed  and  drain  off  all  the  juice, 
save  it  until  next  morning,  use  one  pint  of  granulated  sugar  to  two 
quarts  of  cherries,  place  in  a  crock  in  alternate  layers,  let  stand 
over  night  in  a  cool  place,  in  the  morning  drain  off  part  of  the  juice, 
adding  enough  boiling  water  to  cover,  set  on  stove  and  cook  slowly, 
occasionally  pressing  the  top  ones  down  until  they  are  well  cooked, 
(if  one  cherry  is  left  uncooked  the  can  will  come  open)  seal  as  for 
strawberries,  can  the  juice  which  was  drained  off,  for  punch  and 
ices. 

TO  CAN  RASPBERRIES. 

Raspberries  should  be  handled  as  little  as  possible,  put  them 
in  cans,  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  let  stand  five  minutes  (cov- 
ered) drain  off  juice  and  add  \  cup  of  sugar  and  boil  well.  Pour 
over  again  and  put  in  a  steamer  and  steam  until  berries  begin  to 


168  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


rise  to  the  top  of  can.     Use  Economy  or  wax  sealing  cans.     Black- 
berries may  be  canned  in  the  same  manner. 

TO  CAN  PEACHES. 

Select  medium  early,  sound  yellow  free  stone  peaches,  peel 
them  with  a  thin  sharp  knife,  (do  not  scald  them)  make  a  syrup 
allowing  J  cup  of  sugar  for  each  can.  It  is  best  to  cook  only  two 
cans  at  a  time,  drop  them  into  the  boiling  syrup,  cover  well,  keep 
pressing  the  top  ones  down  into  the  syrup  and  skim  off  all  scum 
as  it  forms,  cook  slowly  until  every  piece  is  heated  well  in  the  center 
(but  not  soft),  pour  while  boiling  hot,  into  well  sterilized  Economy 
jars.  I  have  peaches  canned  in  this  manner,  which  have  taken  first 
prize,  three  years  in  succession  and  are  as  nice  as  when  canned. 

TO  CAN  PEARS. 

The  Kiefer  pear  is  my  choice  for  canning.  They  should  be 
picked  and  laid  awa}^  carefully  until  they  turn  a  golden  color.  Then 
peel,  quarter  and  core ;  put  into  a  tight  vessel,  allow  \  cup  of  sugar 
for  each  can,  pour  over  enough  boiling  water  to  nearly  cover,  set 
in  the  oven,  cover  tight  and  bake  half  an  hour.     Seal  as  for  peaches. 

TO  CAN  HUCKLE-BERRIES. 

Choose  only  fine  large  berries,  pick  them  over  carefully,  and 
wash  them  well;  to  each  quart  of  berries  allow  \  cup  of  sugar  and 
1  tablespoonful  of  sharp  vinegar,  and  1  pint  or  more  water,  boil 
together  well  before  adding  the  berries,  cook  -all  together  thor- 
oughly and  seal  in  Economy  or  wax  cans. 

TO  CAN  GRAPES. 

Concord  grapes  are  best  for  canning ;  stem  and  wash  well.  Can 
the  same  as  raspberries.  They  need  not  be  steamed  quite  so  long. 
The  juice  is  better  than  wine,  and  is  fine  for  the  sick. 

TO  CAN  RHUBARB. 

Cut  the  rhubarb,  in  pieces  the  length  of  the  can,  pour  boiling- 
water  over  several  times  as  for  grapes,  omit  the  sugar,  or  set  can 
in  a  clean  bucket,  set  under  a  water  faucet  and  allow  the  water  to 
run  for  several  minutes,  seal  under  the  water.  Self-sealers  must  be 
used  for  canning  it  cold  and  new  rubbers  must  be  used. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  169 


TO  CAN  GOOSE-BERRIES. 

Clean  and  wash  well,  can  same  as  rhubarb.  Place  a  clean  grape 
leaf  on  top  before  sealing.  I  rather  prefer  canning  them  hot.  They 
do  not  keep  well  if  cooked  too  much. 

TO  CAN  CURRANTS. 

If  ripe  currants  are  preferred  they  should  not  be  allowed  to 
get  too  ripe.  Allow  \  cup  sugar  for  each  can.  In  using  for  pies 
drain  off  juice  and  make  jelly  out  of  it.  Add  a  little  more  sugar 
and  a  little  apple  juice  as  it  makes  a  milder  jelly. 

TO  CAN  CRANBERRIES. 

2  quarts  of  cranberries  2\  pints  water ; 

after  they  are  cleaned ;  1  quart  granulated  sugar. 

Wash  the  berries  in  hot  soda  water,  rinse  and  put  in  a  granite 
or  aluminum  kettle,  boil  to  a  mush,  stirring  well.  Run  through  a 
double  white  mosquito  bar  bag,  re-heat  and  leave  on  the  fire,  put 
the  sugar  in  a  large  flat  pan,  set  in  the  oven  on  the  grate,  let  it 
get  almost  hot  enough  to  melt,  pour  it  into  the  boiling  pulp  stirring 
as  if  making  mush,  pour  immediately  into  hot  cans  and  seal.  This 
is  a  convenient  way  to  keep  cranberry  jelly  the  year  around.  It  is 
also  fine  for  punch. 

APPLE  JELLY. 

Maiden-blush  apples,  partly  ripe,  make  the  finest  apple  jelly. 
Wash  them  well,  quarter  but  do  not  peel  or  core  (if  they  are 
sound).  Cover  well  with  cold  water,  cook  well,  drain  in  a  cheese 
cloth  bag,  but  do  not  squeeze.  Use  two  cups  of  juice  to  one  of 
granulated  sugar,  boil  rapidly,  skimming  well,  as  this  is  the  secret 
in  making,  clear,  tender  jellies.  Always  use  an  aluminum  or  gran- 
ite kettle  in  which  to  boil  jellies  and  silver  or  aluminum  spoon  with 
which  to  skim.  Boil  until  half  done  before  adding  sugar  which 
has  been  previously  heated,  continue  boiling  until  it  begins  to  puff 
up,  or  let  it  drip  from  the  spoon.  If  the  drops  break  off  quickly  it 
is  done.  Pour  immediately  into  hot  jelly  glasses;  when  cold  pour 
melted  parowax  over  top. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Currants   should   be   picked   before   they   are   quite   ripe.     Pick 
out  leaves  and  wash  but  do  not  stem,  cover  well  with  water,  cook 


170  THE  WEAL  COOK  BOOK 


and  strain  same  as  apple  jelly.    Use  equal  parts  of  juice  and  sugar, 
boil  same  as  apple  jelly.    Make  gooseberry  jelly  same  as  currant. 

A  little  apple  juice  added  to  either  makes  a  milder  flavor,  as 
well  as  a  lighter  jelly. 

STRAWBERRY  JELLY. 

Stem  and  wash  berries,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  stir  well 
while  cooking.  When  done  strain  and  put  one-third  apple  or  goose- 
berry juice  with  it.  Use  equal  parts  of  juice  and  sugar.  Boil  and 
skim  as  for  apple  jelly. 

RASPBERRY  JELLY. 

Cover  the  berries  well  with  boiling  water,  stir  while  cooking, 
when  done  strain  in  the  usual  way;  add  one-third  juice  of  YEL- 
LOW TRANSPARENT  apples  as  they  are  ripe  at  this  time.  Use 
two  cups  juice  and  one  of  sugar.    Boil  as  for  apple  jelly. 

BLUEBERRY  JELLY. 

Clean  and  wash  the  berries  well,  cook  same  as  raspberries, 
strain  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  If  teaspoons  of  tartaric  acid. 
Use  three  cups  of  juice  to  two  of  sugar.     Cook  in  the  usual  way. 

GRAPE  JELLY. 

Pick  grapes  when  about  half  ripe  (Concords  are  best)  pick 
from  stems,  wash  and  crush  well,  cook  in  the  usual  manner,  strain, 
boil  and  skim  as  for  apple  jelly.  To  3  cups  of  juice  use  2  of  sugar. 
Cook  same  as  other  jellies. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

Prepare  and  cook  same  as  apple  jelly,  using  J  apple  juice,  and 
the  same  proportions  of  juice  and  sugar;  boil  in  the  same  manner. 

PUMPKIN  BUTTER. 

Choose  a  dark  orange  colored  pumpkin,  bake  it  the  same  as  for 
pumpkin  pie  and  run  it  through  a  fine  colander.  To  3  quarts  of  the 
pulp,  allow  2  quarts  of  light  brown  sugar  and  1  cup  of  boiled  cider ; 
boil  slowly,  stirring  well  until  smooth  and  glossy,  or  as  thick  as 
good  apple  butter.  Add  cinnamon,  cloves,  spice  and  nut-meg  to 
taste. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  171 


SUGAR  APPLE  BUTTER. 

Peel,  core  and  slice  good  tart  cooking  apples,  stew  1  quart  of 
elderberries,  drain  off  the  juice  and  cook  the  apples  in  it  until  well 
done,  squeeze  them  through  a  double  white  mosquito  bar  bag.  To 
3  quarts  of  the  apples  use  2  of  soft  white  sugar,  boil  until  the  right 
consistency.  Do  not  use  any  other  flavor  than  the  elder  berries. 
You  will  be  surprised  at  the  fine  flavor,  as  well  as  the  color.  This 
is  my  favorite   butter. 

CIDER  APPLE  BUTTER. 

Make  the  cider  out  of  sweet  and  sour  apples  mixed,  run  it 
through  a  cream  separator.  This  purifies  it  and  saves  the  trouble 
of  skimming,  make  a  lighter,  brighter  colored  butter;  boil  4  gal- 
lons into  one,  peel,  quarter  and  cut  Rambos  or  fall  pippins  finer 
than  for  stewing.  Put  as  many  into  the  boiling  cider  as  can  be 
stirred  conveniently ;  cook  and  with  an  apple  butter  stirrer  con- 
stantly stir  until  smooth  and  glossy,  or  until  it  will  form  a  crust  on 
top.    When  cold  spice  to  suit  the  taste,  can  or  pour  into  one-gallon  jars. 

PLUM  BUTTER. 

Select  damson  plums  that  are  dead  ripe,  cook  in  very  little 
water  until  mushy,  rub  through  a  granite  or  aluminum  colander, 
use  equal  parv;s  of  pulp  and  sugar.    Stir  as  for  apple  butter. 

WILD  PLUM  BUTTER. 

Pour  scalding  water,  wTith  a  spoonful  soda  in  it  over  the  plums, 
let  stand  until  nearly  cold ;  drain  and  wash  in  clear  water ;  cover  well 
with  hot  water  and  cook  until  mushy,  run  through  a  colander  or 
mosquito  bar  bag ;  use  equal  parts  of  pulp  and  granulated  sugar ; 
stir  and  boil  as  other  butters ;  part  of  the  juice  may  be  drained  off 
before  running  them  through  the  colander  and  put  with  the  same 
amount  of  apple  juice  and  made  into  jelly.  A  little  less  sugar 
should  be  used  then.  Do  not  boil  quite  as  long  as  other  butters,  or 
it  will  be  strong  and  stiff.  For  the  jelly  use  equal  parts  of  juice 
and  sugar. 

SUN-MADE  STRAWBERRY  JAM. 

Select  well  ripened  dark  red  berries,  remove  stems  and  wash 
well.  Crush  through  a  mosquito  bar  bag  (two  double)  and  to  3 
quarts  of  pulp  take  2|  of  granulated  sugar;  stir  well.     Put  into  a 


172  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


large  granite  bread  pan  and  set  on  a  tin  roof  if  possible,  where  it 
will  get  the  direct  rays  of  the  sun ;  cover  with  panes  of  glass.  It 
should  be  in  the  sun  two  days  (bring  in  of  evenings  and  set  in  a 
cool  place). 

Pour  into  pint  ECONOMY  jars,  put  the  lids  on  and  set  in  boil- 
ing water  nearly  to  the  top.  Heat  slowly  until  thoroughly  stere- 
lized.  Do  not  let  it  boil  up  against  the  lids  or  it  will  run  out ;  cool 
before  removing  hooks. 

Blackberry  and  red  and  black  raspberry  jam  may  be  made 
in  the  same  manner  by  using  2  quarts  crushed  fruit  and  1  cup  of 
sugar. 

PINEAPPLE  MARMALADE. 

Peel  and  prepare  the  same  as  for  canned  pineapples,  slice 
lengthways,  grind  medium  fine  on  food  chopper,  set  a  pan  under 
grinder  to  catch  the  juice,  add  it  to  the  pulp,  measure  equal  parts 
of  pulp  and  sugar,  stir  well;  let  stand  one  hour,  put  over  fire,  boil 
and  skim  well;  cook  rapidly;  stir  with  an  apple  butter  stirrer  untiL 
the  syrup  is  the  right  consistency.     Put  into  jars  and  seal. 

This  is  fine  to  serve  over  ice  cream  and  for  sherbet  and  may 
be  used  for  Pineapple  trifle. 

PEACH  MARMALADE. 

Select  well  ripened  gold  drop  peaches,  chop  medium  fine,  meas- 
ure equal  parts  of  pulp  and  granulated  sugar,  let  stand  half  a  day, 
cook  and  stir  same  as  pineapple  marmalade.  Pour  parafine  over 
top  and  seal. 

QUINCE  MARMALADE. 

Peel  quinces  and  grind  fine ;  use  equal  parts  pulp  and  sugar. 
Boil  the  pulp  and  skim  well  before  adding  sugar,  boil  together  rap- 
idly until  the  juice  is  almost  as  thick  as  for  jelly;  stir  well  to  pre- 
vent sticking.     Seal  as  above  mentioned. 

QUINCE  HONEY. 

.  Grate  the  quinces  instead  of  grinding,  using  equal  parts  pulp 
and  sugar;  boil  and  stir  as  for  marmalade,  put  in  glasses  and  pour 
parafine  over  top. 

QUINCE  PRESERVES. 

Peel,  throw  into  cold  water  with  a  little  lemon  juice  in  it  to 
prevent  them  from  turning  dark.     Cut  in  halves  or  fourths  as  de- 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  173 


sired.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  drain  off  juice; 
add  2  parts  sugar  and  1  of  water;  let  boil  and  skim.  Drop  in  the 
quinces  and  cook  slowly  until  preserved  through.     Seal  hot. 

Another  good  way  is  to  can  them  and  make  the  preserves  in  the 
winter.  Drain  off  the  juice  and  add  one-third  apple  juice,  either 
fresh  or  canned,  make  the  same  as  apple  jelly,  using  2  parts  juice 
and  1  part  sugar.  Make  a  heavy  syrup  and  drop  the  quinces  in  it 
and  boil  until  done  in  center. 

PEACH  PRESERVES. 

Use  Yellow  Clings ;  make  a  syrup  of  2  parts  sugar  and  1  part 
water,  boil  well,  pour  over  the  fruit,  cover  with  a  plate  and  let 
stand  until  cold.  Drain  off  the  syrup,  boil  again  and  drop  the 
peaches  into  it  and  boil  slowly  until  done.     Seal. 

PEAR  PRESERVES. 

Make  same  as  quince  preserves.  Do  not  have  the  fruit  too 
ripe. 

SWEET  APPLE  PRESERVES. 

May  be  made  same  as  quince  preserves.  Add  a  few  slices  of 
quinces  which  gives  them  a  good  flavor,  or  some  pineapple  juice. 
Use  the  same  amount  of  sugar  and  boil  in  the  usual  way. 

PLUM  PRESERVES. 

Use  the  large  sweet  or  Greengage  plums.  Make  a  thick  syrup, 
pour  over  them  and  cover  well.  Let  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  drain  off  the  syrup;  boil  and  skim  for  5  or  10  minutes. 
Drop  plums  into  it  and  set  in  a  fireless  cooker  with  a  warm  stone 
that  will  almost  bear  the  hands.  Let  set  an  hour  or  two.  If  the 
syrup  is  not  thick  enough  drain  and  boil  as  before.  Plums  will 
cook  to  pieces  if  boiled  on  the  stove.  However,  they  may  be  set 
in  a  slow  oven  instead  of  a  fireless  cooker.  The  same  method  should 
be  used  for  ground  cherries  and  yellow  tomatoes.  Add  a  little  lem- 
on and  orange  juice  to  the  syrup. 

SUN  MADE  STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES. 

Select  the  finest  dark  red  berries  to  be  found ;  wash,  clean  and 
drain ;  measure  equal  parts  of  sugar  and  berries,  put  into  a  crock 
in  alternate  layers,  let  stand  until  the  juice  covers  them.     Put  in 


174 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


pans,  set  them  in  the  sun,  same  as  for  strawberry  jam.  On  the  first 
evening  drain  off  all  the  juice,  boil,  skim  and  strain.  Pour  back 
over  the  berries,  cover  with  a  plate  and  let  stand  until  morning.  Set 
in  the  sun  again,  until  evening,  drain  off  the  juice  again,  boil  and 
skim,  put  the  berries  in  and  let  them  boil  one  minute  or  more,  skim 
well  and  seal  in  pint  Economy  jars.  They  are  sure  to  keep  their 
color  and  flavor  when  canned  in  this  manner. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  175 


MEMORANDA 


PICKLES,  RELISHES 
AND  SAUER  KRAUT 


BRINE  PICKLES. 

They  should  be  washed  and  rubbed  well  through  several  waters 
before  laying  in  the  jar.  Choose  nice  clean  grape  leaves  and  lay  a 
layer  in  bottom,  then  lay  alternate  layers  of  leaves  and  pickles  until 
the  jar  is  nearly  full  laying  plenty  of  leaves  on  top.  Make  a  brine 
by  boiling  water  and  salt  together,  strong  enough  to  barely  bounce 
an  egg,  skim,  cool  and  pour  over  the  pickles.  Let  stand  for  a  few 
days,  drain  and  put  on  new  brine,  if  you  want  them  to  keep  well. 
When  ready  to  use  take  out  as  many  as  are  wanted  and  put  a  table- 
spoon of  soda  over  them.  Pour  over  scalding  water,  and  they  will 
be  plump  and  nice.  Drain  off  in  about  10  or  15  minutes.  Pour  on 
cold  water  and  soak  until  they  are  a  little  too  salty  to  eat,  boil  mild 
vinegar  and  pour  over  them.  Dill  or  any  desired  spices  mav  be 
added.  1877." 

SOUR  PICKLES. 

3  quarts  cider  vinegar,  1  quart  water,  1J  cups  brown  sugar, 
1  cup  salt.  Boil  ten  minutes  and  skim  well.  When  cold  make  a 
smooth  paste  of  1  cup  ground  mustard  and  a  little  of  the  boiled 
vinegar.  Mix  all  together  and  pour  in  a  jar.  Wash  and  dry  well 
enough  medium  size  pickles  to  fill  the  jar,  a  little  below  the  vinegar. 
Sprinkle  with  celery  and  nasturtium  seeds. 

Mrs.  Aaron  Sutton. 

TIP-TOP  PICKLES. 

Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes  and  one  dozen  large  onions, 
slice  both  on  a  slaw  cutter;  have  them  in  separate  vessels,  sprinkle 
salt  between  the  tomatoes  and  let  them  stand  two  hours ;  pour  scald- 
ing water  over  the  onions,  and  let  stand  until  wanted;  then  squeeze 
both  out,  and  arrange  them  in  a  crock  in  alternate  layers,  sprinkle 
between  them  celery  seed,  white  and  black  mustard  seed;  pour  over 
this  one  quart  of  vinegar  and  1  pint  of  sugar  brought  to  a  boil. 
Ready  for  use  when  cold. 

Mrs.  Sylvester  Shull. 

SWEET  PICKLES. 

Select  smooth  fresh  pickles,  2J  inches  long,  wash  rinse  and  dry 
well,  lay  them  in  salt  water  over  night.     Drain  and  dry  well,  place 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  111 


a  layer  of  fresh  grape  leaves,  well  washed  and  dried,  in  the  bottom 
of  a  jar;  lay  in  the  pickles  and  grape  leaves  in  alternate  layers.  If 
possible  buy  enough  sweet  spiced  pickle  vinegar  off  of  sweet  store 
pickles  to  cover  them.  It  should  be  boiled  and  skimmed  first  and  a 
little  white  wine  vinegar  added  to  it ;  pour  it  over  the  pickles,  boil- 
ing hot.  White  mustard  seeds  should  be  sprinkled  between  each 
layer  of  pickles  when  they  are  placed  in  the  jar,  lay  grape  leaves 
on  top,  also  a  thin  mustard  pad,  place  a  plate  on  top,  also  a  small 
weight.  Tie  a  thin  cloth  over  the  top  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Will 
keep  until  spring. 

If  it  is  not  possible  to  buy  the  sweet  spiced  vinegar  prepare 
one  from  pure  cider  vinegar,  diluted  a  little,  add  a  lump  of  alum 
size  of  a  quail's  egg,  to  one  gallon  of  vinegar,  and  5  cents  worth 
stick  cinnamon,  3  cents  worth  of  cloves,  three  of  alspice,  5  cents 
worth  of  nrace,  a  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed  and  enough  sugar  to 
make  it  a  little  sweeter  than  the  prepared  vinegar  as  a  great 
amount  of  the  sugar  is  absorbed  by  the  pickles ;  boil  all  together 
10  minutes,  skim  well,  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  the  pickles,  as 
above  mentioned. 

PICKLED  SWEET  PEPPERS. 

Select  red,  green  and  yellow  mangoes,  shred  lengthways  the 
size  of  shoe  strings,  let  stand  in  salt  water  over  night,  drain  well, 
make  a  sweet  spiced  vinegar  as  for  sweet  pickles,  boil  and  skim 
the  same,  add  the  shredded  peppers,  simmer  1  minute,  seal  in  pint 
Economy  jars. 

CORN  SALAD. 

2  quarts  tender  sweet  corn ;  1  cup  cider  vinegar ; 

2-|  cups  fine  cabbage ;  H  cups  sugar ; 

1  cup  sweet  red  mangoes ;  1  cup  vinegar,  off  can  of  sweet 
5  cups  celery;  pickles; 

2  cups  sweet  pickles ;  3  tablespoons  salt. 

2  tablespoons  prepared  mustard  and  1  tablespoon  whole  cloves, 
spice  and  cinnamon  boiled  in  the  vinegar.  Add  the  sugar,  put  in 
corn  and  cook  twenty  minutes.  Add  cabbage,  cook. 5  minutes.  Add 
other  ingredients  and  cook  5  minutes  longer.  Seal  in  pint  self- 
sealers.  Pour  parafine  on  the  top  and  in  the  lids.  Seal  while  very 
hot.  1909. 


178 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


TOMATO  CATSUP. 


4  cups  raw  pulp ; 
2  tablespoons  sugar; 
1  tablespoon  vinegar; 

1  teaspoon  whole  spice ; 

2  sticks  cinnamon; 

\  teaspoon  Coolman's  mustard; 


1  level  tablespoon  salt ; 

1  level  tablespoon  prepared 

mustard ; 
1  teaspoon  whole  cloves ; 
1  teaspoon  whole  black  pepper ; 
1  teaspoon  paprika. 


Choose  very  ripe  red  tomatoes,  cut  off  stem  end  and  rub  through 
fine  colander  or  old  fashioned  wire  sieve,  put  in  other  ingredients, 
boil  down  one-half,  put  in  1  teaspoon  corn  starch  in  one-fourth  cup 
cold  water.  Dissolve.  Stir  while  boiling.  Boil  for  5  minutes  longer 
and  bottle.  1910. 


CHERRY  OLIVES. 


6  quarts  cherries; 

2  cups  strong  cider  vinegar 


1  gallon  water ; 
1  cup  coarse  salt. 


Select  nice  bunches  of  cherries  not  quite  ripe  enough  to  can. 
Remove  all  blossoms  from  the  stems;  wash  carefully,  pack  in  pint 
jars.  Boil  the  above  mixture  well,  pour  in  the  jars  over  the  cher- 
ries. Cover  tight,  let  stand  5  minutes  in  a  warm  place  then  pour 
off  into  the  kettle  in  which  the  vinegar  and  water  were  boiled. 
Boil  again  and  pour  over  the  same  as  before.  Put  -J  teaspoon  white 
mustard  in  each  can.  Lay  a  nice  clean,  dry  grape  leaf  on  top,  and 
seal. 

Bessie  Black  Thompson.  1910. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP. 

Pare  large,  ripe  cucumbers  and  take  out  the  seeds,  grate  fine 
and  to  one  dozen  cucumbers  add  ten  small  onions,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  grated  horseradish,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper, 
one  teaspoon  of  white  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  black  pepper ;  cover 
with  cold  vinegar  and  seal.  Half  teaspoon  Coolman's  mustard  im- 
proves it. 

LAST  OF  THE  GARDEN. 


1  gallon  green  tomatoes ; 
\  gallon  corn ; 
1  quart  shell  beans,  cooked ; 
100  small  green  cucumbers ; 


1  gallon  cabbage ; 

1  quart  string  beans,  cooked; 

2  quarts  ripe  cucumbers ; 
1  dozen  mangoes ; 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


179 


1  dozen  large  onions,  cooked; 

1  pint  tender  radish  pods ; 

2  pounds  sugar; 


2  bunches  celery; 

1  tablespoon  mustard; 

1  gallon  vinegar. 


Spice  to  taste  and  sprinkle  on  ginger  and  salt.    Boil  20  minutes. 

Mrs.   Sylvester   Shull. 

SWEET  RELISH. 

6  cups  green  tomatoes  ground,        2  tablespoons  prepared 


(after  the  juice  is  pressed 

out)  ; 
5  cups  ground  celery; 
3  cups  ground  red  mangoes ; 
3  tablespoons  salt; 
2  cups  cider  vinegar ; 


mustard ; 
3  cups  ground  sweet  pickles ; 
3  cups  finely  chopped  cabbage ; 
1  cup  ground  onions ; 
1  cup  sweet  vinegar  off  sweet 

pickles. 


Grind  all  the  vegetables  separately  on  medium  sized  plate  of 
food  chopper.  Press  out  all  surplus  juice,  salt  each  one  and  let 
stand  while  you  boil  the  vinegar  with 


1  nutmeg  grated; 
5  sticks  cinnamon. 


1^  cups  brown  sugar; 
1  tablespoon  whole  spice  and 
black  pepper ; 

Strain  spice  out  of  vinegar  and  put  vegetables  and  all  together 
in  an  aluminum  or  granite  kettle.  Cover  well  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes.  Add  a  little  green  fruit  coloring  to  improve  the  color. 
Pour  hot  parowax  over  the  top  and  seal  in  pint  self-sealers.  This 
may  be  used  to  make  gelatine  relish.  1910. 


MUSTARD  PICKLES. 


1  quart  large  cucumbers , 
cut  in  fancy  shapes ; 
1  quart  small  cucumbers; 
6  green  peppers ; 
6  red  mangoes  shredded; 


2  quarts  white  onions ; 

1  quart  cauliflower,  after  it  has 

been  cleaned ; 
^  cup  nasturtium  seed ; 
A  few  green  radish  pods. 


Cover  with  rather  strong  salt  water;  let  stand  h  day.     Drain 
well  and  heat  slowly  to  the  boiling  point  in  the  following  dressing: 


1  cup  flour ; 

1  tablespoon  tumeric ; 

^  cup  salt; 


6  tablespoons  ground  mustard ; 
1  teaspoon  Coolman's  mustard; 
1  tablespoon  paprika. 


180  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


Dissolve  the  above  ingredients  in  enough  cold  water  to  make 
a  thin  paste,  beat  until  free  from  lumps.  Pour  into  2  quarts  boiling 
cider  vinegar,  1-J  pints  boiling  water  and  a  lump  of  alum  the  size 
of  a  bird  egg.    Cook  well  before  adding  the  pickles. 

Mrs.   Will  G.   Sutton. 

SAUER  KRAUT. 

Select  solid  white  cabbage.  The  Houser  makes  a  fine  late  cab- 
bage as  it  is  very  sweet  and  white.  Kraut  should  be  made  before 
freezing  weather.  Cut  the  cabbage  a  little  coarser  than  for  slaw, 
cut  about  three  quarts  at  a  time,  salt  as  you  would  to  cook,  using  a 
scant  teaspoon  of  sugar  to  each  three  quarts.  Rub  in  thoroughly 
then  put  in  keg  or  jar  and  stamp  lightly  as  too  much  stamping 
makes  it  soft  and  dark.  Continue  until  the  jar  is  three-fourths  full. 
Lay  nice  clean  cabbage  leaves  over  the  top  and  place  a  plate  and 
a  small  clean  stone  on  for  a  weight.  Set  in  a  medium  warm 
place  and  do  not  touch  for  two  weeks  or  until  fermentation  ceases. 
If  it  should  mold  on  top  and  the  brine  should  sink,  remove  the  mold- 
ed part  and  add  weak  salt  water  with  a  little  sugar  in  it.  Boil,  cool 
and  pour  over  kraut.  Wash  plate  and  stone,  dry  well  and  put  back 
on  jar.  Tie  thin  white  cloth  over  the  top. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  181 


MEMORANDA 


JUNKET  ICE  CREAM. 

2  quarts  new  milk ;  4  cups  sugar ; 

1  quart  cream ;  2  junket  tablets. 

Put  tablets  to  soak  in  1  tablespoon  cold  water;  mash  until  dis- 
solved. Put  milk  and  sugar  together  in  double  boiler,  stir  well  until 
it  is  milk  warm,  but  no  warmer.  Remove  from  fire,  stir  in  the  dis- 
solved junket  tablets,  set  in  warm  place  to  congeal.  It  should  be 
like  clabber  milk.  Whip  the  cream  and  mix  all  together;  add  a 
cup  of  chopped  nuts,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  lemon,  and  freeze. 

This  makes  a  good  foundation  for  fruit  and  other  creams. 

FROZEN  DARK  SECRETS. 

Prepare  same  as  junket  ice  cream;  adding  f  cup  Baker's  cocoa 
to  the  sugar  before  pouring  it  into  the  milk.     Add  1  cup  nuts  and 

1  cup  finely  shredded  pineapple. 

GELATINE  ICE  CREAM. 

2  quarts  new  milk;  1    envelope   Plymouth-Rock   gela- 
1  quart  separated  cream ;  tine ; 

4  cups  sugar ;  Flavor  with  lemon  extract. 

Soak  gellatine  in  1  cup  of  cold  milk  for  10  minutes.  Pour  over 
1  pint  boiling  milk,  stir  until  well  dissolved.  Add  the  sugar,  stir 
well  and  add  the  rest  of  the  cold  milk.  Let  all  cool.  "Whip  cream 
well,  add  to  milk  and  freeze. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 

1  quart  separated  cream  ;  1  quart  crushed  strawberries ; 

1  pint  milk ;  J  junket  tablet. 

Prepare  milk  and  junket  the  same  as  for  junket  ice  cream. 
When  cold  add  strawberries  which  have  been  crushed  with  3-|  cups 
of  sugar.     Whip  cream  stiff  and  add  to  the  other  mixture.     Freeze. 

PEACH  ICE  CREAM. 

Make  the  same  as  for  strawberry  ice  cream,  using  well  ripened 
yellow  peaches.  Red  raspberry,  and  other  fresh  ripe  fruit  creams 
may  be  made  in  the  same  manner. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


183 


APRICOT  ICE  CREAM. 


1  quart  whipped  cream; 
Pinch  of  salt; 
2^  cups  sugar; 

Blend  the  apricot  pulp  and  sugar  together, 
cream,  and  the  whites  of  two  well  beaten  eggs. 
and  freeze. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM. 


1  quart  apricot  pulp, 

(either  canned  or  dried). 


Add  the  whipped 
Mix  all  together 


1  quart  separated  cream ; 
3  pints  of  new  milk ; 
§  cup  of  chocolate; 
Pinch  of  salt ; 


4  egg  yolks,  well  beaten; 
1  tablespoon  corn  starch; 
1  stick  of  cinnamon; 
2\  cups  sugar. 


Scald  the  milk,  reserving  \  cup.  Dissolve  corn  starch  and  yolks 
in  the  remaining  \  cup  and  pour  in  the  scalding  milk.  Cook  until 
it  thickens.  Cool  and  strain  through  cheese  cloth.  Add  whipped 
cream  and  freeze.  (The  cinnamon  and  chocolate  should  be  boiled 
with  the  milk. 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM. 


1  quart  milk; 

3  cups  sugar; 

1  tablespoon  corn  starch 

Pinch  of  salt : 


1  quart  separated  cream 

2  egg  whites; 
Vanilla  flavoring. 


Scald  the  milk  and  sugar  together ;  dissolve  corn  starch  in  -| 
cup  of  warm  milk.  Stir  in  the  boiling  milk.  Let  simmer ;  when  cold 
add  whipped  cream  and  well  beaten  egg  whites.     Freeze. 

Almaretta  Alexander. 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM. 


1  quart  cream; 

1  pint  sugar; 

1  tablespoon  corn  starch ; 

1  quart  new  milk ; 


4  egg  yolks  ; 
Pinch  of  salt ; 

^  cup  of  finely  sifted  ground 
coffee. 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  FREEZING.  Put  the  ice  into  a  grain  or  coffee  sack, 
lay  on  a  solid  place,  and  crush  with  the  flat  side  of  an  ax  or  mallet  until  VERY 
FINE,  use  three  parts  of  ice  to  one  of  salt,  mix  together  well  before  packing 
into  freezer.  The  freezer  should  be  rubbed  with  bon  ami,  or  soda,  and  washed, 
scalded  and  cooled,  each  time  before  using. 


184  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


Boil  milk  and  coffee  together  with  the  sugar.  Add  corn  starch 
and  yolks  dissolved  in  J  cup  of  warm  milk.  Let  simmer.  Cool  and 
freeze. 

MAPLE  FRAPPE. 

1  quart  separated  cream  ;  If  pints  maple  syrup  ; 

8  egg  yolks,  well  beaten;  Pinch  of  salt. 

1  quart  milk; 

Boil  syrup  and  milk  together  reserving  \  cup.  Blend  it  with 
the  egg  yolks.  Pour  boiling  syrup  OA^er  them.  Cover  well  and  set 
in  a  warm  place  for  10  minutes.  Put  in  cold  water  and  stir  until 
cool.  Add  whipped  cream  and  freeze.  If  not  quite  sweet  enough 
add  a  little  more  syrup. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE  FOR  VANILLA  ICE  CREAM. 

2  squares  chocolate ;  2  cups  sugar ; 

2  tablespoon  butter;  1  cup  of  water. 
\  teaspoon  cinnamon ; 

Mix  and  cook  until  a  soft  ball  can  be  formed  when  tried  in  cold 
water.     Serve  hot  over  vanilla  ice  cream. 

ORANGE  ICE. 

1  dozen  oranges ;  2  quarts  water ; 

3  cups  of  sugar ;  Grated  yellow  peel  of  2  oranges. 

4  lemons ; 

Dissolve  sugar  in  1  pint  of  boiling  water  and  cool.  Add  lemon, 
orange  juice  and  grated  peel. 

PINEAPPLE  ICE. 

2  quarts  water ;  3  cups  sugar ; 

1  large  grated  pineapple  or  Juice  of  3  lemons. 

1  can  shredded  pineapple ; 

Prepare  and  freeze  the  same  as  for  orange  ice. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET,  No.  1. 

2  quarts  water;  3  cups  sugar; 

1  large  grated  pineapple ;  Juice  of  4  lemons ; 

1  level  tablespoon  Plymouth-  Whites  of  4  eggs ; 

rock  gelatine ;  Pinch  of  salt. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  185 


Boil  sugar  in  1  quart  of  water.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  1  cup  cold 
water,  and  add  to  the  boiling  water  and  sugar.  Pour  in  the  re- 
mainder of  water,  lemon  juice  and  grated  pineapple.  Freeze  slightly 
before  adding  the  beaten  whites.  Turn  freezer  rapidly  for  a  few 
minutes  until  the  eggs  become  incorporated.  Then  turn  more  slowly 
until  done. 

ORANGE  SHERBET. 

Make  the  same  as  orange  ice,  adding  1  pint  of  whipped  cream 
when  nearly  frozen. 

LEMON  SHERBET. 

1  quart  milk  (ice  cold)  ;  6  lemons,  juice  of; 

2  cups  sugar ;  Juice  and  grated  peel  of  2  oranges. 
1  quart  cream; 

Blend  the  sugar  with  the  lemon  and  orange  juice ;  pour  in  milk 
slowly.     Add  the  cream  well  whipped  and  freeze. 

Kate  Maddox  Cloud.  1895. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE. 

2  quarts  dark  red  strawberries,  crushed  with  3  cups  sugar.  Let 
stand  until  sugar  is  well  dissolved.    Add  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and 

3  pints  of  water.     Stir  well  and  strain.     Freeze. 

RED  RASPBERRY  ICE. 

May  be  made  the  same  as  strawberry  ice  using  5  lemons  in- 
stead of  2. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET.    No.  2. 

1  quart  sugar ;  4  lemons,  juice  of ; 

1  can  grated  pineapple ;  3  tablespoons  flour ; 

4  egg  whites  beaten  stiff;  1  pint  cream; 

3  quarts  of  water ;  J  cup  warm  water. 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  add  \  cup  warm  water  blend  well,  add  1 
quart  of  boiling  water  and  boil.  When  it  cools  add  all  the  rest  of 
the  ingredients  but  the  eggs  and  cream,  and  freeze.  When  partly 
frozen  add  the  eggs  and  cream  well  whipped.     Repeat  freezing. 

This  will  fill  a  5  quart  freezer. 

Almaretta  Alexander. 


186  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


ZERO  PUDDING. 

3J  cups  of  canned  cherry  1  envelope  of  gelatine ; 

or  peach  juice ;  Juice  of  -|  a  lemon ; 

i  cup  cold  water ;  1^  cup  of  sugar. 

Soak  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  10  minutes;  heat  the  fruit  juice 
scalding  hot,  dissolve  gelatine  in  it,  add  sugar,  stir  until  all  is  dis- 
solved, pour  into  a  deep  granite  pan  so  the  juice  will  be  one  inch 
deep.     Put  in  a  cold  place  to  harden. 

For  second  layer  make  a  Spanish  cream  as  follows : 

1  envelope  gelatine ;  1  \  cups  sugar ; 

3  egg  yolks ;  Pinch  salt ; 

3  egg  whites ;  Flavor  with  lemon  and  vanilla. 

4  cups  of  new  milk ; 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  one  cup  of  the  milk  10  minutes,  put  the 
remaining  three  cups  of  milk  into  a  stew  pan,  let  boil,  pour  over 
the  egg  yolks  and  ^  cup  of  the  sugar  (which  have  been  creamed  to- 
gether until  light)  stir  well,  set  on  back  of  stove,  stirring  until  it 
thickens,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  pour  immediately  over  the  well 
beaten  egg  whites  and  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  add  flavoring  and 
salt,  beat  slightly,  when  milk  warm  pour  into  the  pan  slowly  over 
the  fruit  jelly.  Sprinkle  1  cup  of  chopped  nuts  and  \  cup  candied 
fruit  through  the  last  layer.  In  zero  weather  set  it  out  where  it 
will  freeze.  Cut  in  slices  and  serve  as  ice  cream,  or  put  in  an  ice 
mold  and  chill.  It  is  much  better  to  omit  1  cup  of  the  milk  and  use 
1    cup  separated  cream  instead.  2-22-12. 

FOUR  AND  FOUR. 

Four  lemons  and  four  over-ripe  bananas,  mashed,  four  or- 
anges, four  cupfuls  of  sugar,  four  cupfuls  of  water,  juice  of  oranges 
and  lemons,  all  frozen  together  as  frappe. 

CRANBERRY  ICE. 

1  quart  of  cranberries  cooked  in  six  cups  of  water  for  10  min- 
utes.    Strain  and  'add  2J  cups  of  sugar  and  freeze. 

CURRANT  WATER  ICE. 

1  quart  red  currant  juice,  2  cups  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  pint 
boiling  water.  Dissolve  sugar  in  the  boiling  water,  add  other  in- 
gredients and  freeze. 


THE  WEAL  COOK  BOOK  187 


CHERRY  WATER  ICE. 

Three  pints  cherry  juice,  2  cups  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon.  Make 
the  same  as  currant  water  ice. 

ITALIAN  TUTTI  FRUTTI. 

Soak  \  box  of  gelatine  in  \  cup  cold  water  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Make  a  syrup  of  two  cups  of  sugar  and  one  quart  of  water.  Pour 
over  gelatine.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Add  the  juice  and  grated  peel 
of  2  oranges  and  4  lemons.  Freeze  until  mushy,  add  1  cup  chopped 
almonds,  1  cup  of  candied  cherries  chopped,  1  cup  of  shredded  pine- 
apple and  finish  freezing. 

GRAPE  ICE. 

1  quart  sweet  grape  wine,  peel  and  juice  of  2  oranges,  4  lemons, 
2  cups  of  sugar  and  1  quart  of  water.    Freeze. 

STRAWBERRY  GRANITE. 

1  pint  of  orange  juice;  \\  pounds  of  sugar; 

1  quart  of  chopped  strawberries ;        1  quart  of  water. 
1  pint  of  strawberry  juice ; 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  for  five  minutes.  Drop  the 
strawberries  into  this  syrup,  lift  them  carefully  with  a  skimmer, 
and  place  them  on  a  platter  to  cool,  then  add  to  the  syrup  the  straw- 
berries and  orange  juice.  Strain  and  freeze  the  same  as  orange 
water  ice.  When  frozen  stir  in  the  strawberries  and  serve  in  glass- 
es.   Berries  may  be  put  on  top  uncooked. 

RASPBERRY  GRANITE. 

1  quart  red  raspberries ;  1  quart  water ; 

2  lemons,  juice  of ;  2  cups  sugar. 

Make  same  as  raspberry  ice.  Take  up  in  glasses  and  put  the 
whole  berries  on  top.     Cover  with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 


FRUIT  ICES  should  not  be  allowed  to  stand  in  a  metal  freezer,  longer  than 
six  or  eight  hours  at  most. 


188  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


MEMORANDA 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  189 


MEMORANDA 


1 

CANDIES 

1 

Fondant   forms   the   basis   for   all   French   Cream   candies,    and 
the  quality  of  the  candy  depends  on  the  quality  of  the  fondant. 

Proportion  for  Fondant. 


1  scant  teaspoon  pure  cream  of 
tartar. 


10  cups  granulated  sugar ; 
5  cups  boiling  water ; 

Pour  the  water  in  a  granite  or  aluminum  stew  kettle.  Pour  the 
sugar,  1  cup  at  a  time,  in  the  center  of  the  kettle  to  prevent  it  from 
graining  on  the  sides  of  the  kettle.  Boil  rapidly,  skim  well,  test 
by  pouring  a  teaspoonful  into  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  as  soon  as 
it  can  barely  be  gathered  into  a  soft  ball  it  is  done.  Pour  immedi- 
ately into  a  cold  shallow  pan,  set  in  cold  water  to  cool.  Fold  in 
edges  as  they  cool.  When  a  little  warmer  than  milk  warm,  com- 
mence stirring  and  stir  until  it  gets  stiff  as  soft  pie  dough.  It  should 
turn  milky  and  begin  to  grain  in  5  or  10  minutes,  but  do  not  stop 
stirring.  When  soft  as  dough  take  out  on  bread  board  and  knead 
well  until  free  from  lumps.  If  stirred  before  cool  enough,  it  will 
be  hard  and  lumpy,  and  very  coarse  grained.  If  it  is  slow  graining 
warm  the  pan  a  little  by  placing  it  into  warm  water. 

This  fondant  may  be  made  in  large  quantities  and  set  away  a 
month  before  using,  which  improves  it  very  much. 

It  may  be  melted  in  a  double  boiler  and  used  for  cake  icing. 


MILK  FONDANT. 


4  cups  granulated  sugar; 
1  tablespoon  corn  syrup ; 


2  cups  new  milk; 
Pinch  of  salt. 


Stir  all  ingredients  together,  and  pour  in  a  cold  stew  kettle, 
buttered  in  the  bottom  and  around  the  top  edges  with  warm  but- 
ter. As  candies  made  of  milk  are  apt  to  burn  and  run  over,  the 
above  precautions  must  be  taken. 


CHOCOLATE  CREAMS. 

Put  two  or  three  boxes  of  corn  starch  in  a  pan  so  that  it  will  be 
an  inch  or  more  deep.  Make  holes  1  inch  apart  the  size  and  shape 
you  wish  the  creams  to  be.  Melt  about  1  pint  of  fondant,  by  placing 
in  a  pitcher  and  putting  into   boiling  water,   stirring     constantly. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  191 


When  thin  enough  to  pour  fill  moulds,  when  cold  remove  from  the 
starch  and  dust  with  a  5  cent  paste  brush  until  entirely  free  from 
starch.  The  starch  may  be  used  for  years  by  putting  in  cans  and 
covering  tightly. 

TO  DIP  CHOCOLATES. 

1  large  cake  AYalter  Baker's  bitter  chocolate.  \  as  much  para- 
fine  wax.  Shave  chocolate,  put  on  grate  in  the  oven  to  melt  leaving 
the  door  open.  Melt  the  wax  and  pour  in  the  melted  chocolate.  Put 
creams  on  a  two  pronged  fork,  immerse  in  the  hot  chocolate.  Let 
drip  and  slip  off  onto  waxed  paper  to  cool. 

CHERRY  COCKTAILS. 

Make  same  as  chocolate  creams,  which  requires  two  people  to 
do  it  successfully.  One  to  pour  and  one  to  plunge  cherries  in  the 
center  of  moulds  before  it  hardens.  Dip  in  chocolate  the  same  as 
creams.     If  fondant  is  too  hot  when  poured  the  creams  will  be  hard. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS  WITH  NUTS. 

Can  be  made  the  same  as  cherry  cocktails  by  using  nuts  in- 
stead of  cherries.     Different  colors  and  flavors  may  be  made. 

FRENCH  CREAM  BARS. 

Divide  fondant  in  three  equal  parts,  making  colors  of  white, 
pink,  and  brown  using  different  flavors.  Grate  2  squares  of  Baker's 
bitter  chocolate,  melt  and  knead  in  the  part  you  wish  to  be  brown. 
Roll  out  in  layers,  using  a  little  corn  starch  on  the  rolling  pin, 
arrange  in  layers  in  pans  with  removable  sides.  When  cold  re- 
move sides  and  cut  in  bars  or  cubes.  Nuts  may  be  added  if  de- 
sired. 

COCOANUT  BALLS. 

Take  as  much  fondant  as  you  want  candy,  flavor  with  orange 
or  lemon,  knead  as  much  shredded  cocoanut  in  as  will  be  necessary 
to  make  stiff  enough  to  stand;  roll  into  balls.  Put  on  waxed  paper 
to  cool. 

Always  use  granulated  sugar  for  candies,  unless  otherwise  stated...  Sweet 
chocolate  for  dipping  purposes,  can  be  bought  at  the  candy  kitchen.  Melt  and 
dip  same  as  bitter  chocolate;  keep  free  from  moisture;  one  drop  of  water  will 
ruin  it. 


192 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


DIVINITY  CREAMS. 


1  cup  maple  syrup ; 

\  cup  water; 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar 


1  tablespoon  corn  syrup ; 
Whites  of  2  eggs; 

Boil  to  the  soft  ball  stage. 


Add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  beat  very 
stiff.  Pour  over  them  J  of  the  boiling  s}rrup,  beating  all  the  while. 
Set  syrup  back  on  the  stove,  where  it  will  keep  hot  until  you  beat 
the  eggs  \  minute.  Pour  on  part  of  the  boiling  syrup  and  beat  \ 
minute  longer.  Then  add  the  rest  of  the  syrup  and  beat  well  until 
it  begins  to  grain,  which  can  be  detected  best  by  tasting.  A  wire 
egg  whip  should  be  used  for  beating  the  whites  and  until  the  mix- 
ture is  too  stiff  for  it.  Then  use  Bakers  whisk  or  a  perforated  spoon. 
Pour  into  a  forcing  bag  and  make  in  roses,  or  drop  in  lumps  on 
waxed  paper  with  a  spoon.  Place  English  walnuts  on  top  when 
dropped  with  a  spoon.  This  must  all  be  done  very  quickly.  Shred- 
ded cocoanut  or  chopped  nuts  may  be  added  just  before  dropping 
on  the  waxed  paper. 

Ruth  Alexander. 


DOLLY  VARDEN  CREAMS. 

Divide  fondant  in  four  equal  parts.  Color  one  part  pink,  one 
yellow,  one  pale  green,  and  leave  one  white.  Flavor  each  differ- 
ently and  roll  in  round  balls  about  the  size  of  large  cherries.  Press 
•J  an  English  walnut  in  the  center.     These  are  very  attractive. 


MARSHMALLOWS. 


2  cups  sugar; 

1  cup  water ; 

1  tablespoon  gelatine; 


1  cup  boiling  water ; 

^  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 


Put  the  boiling  water  in  a  deep  stew  pan  holding  3  pints.  Add 
gelatine,  stir  until  dissolved  and  set  in  warming  closet  to  keep 
warm,  while  you  boil  the  sugar  and  water  to  a  syrup  the  same  as 
for  soft  fondant.  Then  pour  the  syrup  over  the  gelatine,  stirring 
gently  until  partly  cool.  Use  a  Dover  egg  beater  until  it  begins 
to  set.  Then  pour  in  pan  with  a  removable  bottom  that  has 
been  well  dusted  with  corn  starch.  When  cold  cut  into  squares  and 
roll  in  starch.    Keep  covered  to  prevent  drying  out. 

Any  desired  flavor  may  be  used  for  marshmallows.  They  are 
fine  with  fresh  grated  cocoanut  stirred  in  just     before     molding. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  193 


Very  nice  dipped  in  chocolate,  but  must  be  very  cold  and  several 
days  old  or  they  will  melt.  If  fruit  flavors  are  desired  use  fruit 
juices  instead  of  water  in  which  to  boil  the  sugar. 

MAPLE  CREAMS. 

4  cups  sugar ;  2  cups  maple  syrup  ; 

1  cup  water ;  1  tablespoon  corn  syrup  ; 

\  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar ;  Pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  to  the  soft  ball  stage  same  as  for  fondant.  Knead  until 
smooth  and  creamy,  mold  in  a  pan  with  removable  bottom,  cut  in 
cubes  and  when  solid  dip  in  melted  chocolate  or  leave  plain  like 
fudge.  Or  it  may  be  melted  like  fondant  and  molded  like  French 
creams. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  CANDY. 

Boil  pure  maple  syrup  to  the  soft  ball  stage,  take  from  the 
fire  and  partly  cool  before  stirring.  This  grains  very  quickly  and 
must  be  poured  into  buttered  mold  or  egg  shells  as  soon  as  it  be- 
gins to  grain.  If  it  is  molded  too  soon  set  in  a  warm  place  and  it 
will  soon  turn  to  sugar. 

MAPLE  WAX. 

Boil  pure  maple  syrup  down  until  it  is  a  little  harder  than 
maple  creams.     Pour  in  buttered  pan  and  do  not  stir.     Cool  quickly. 

STICK  CANDY. 

6  cups  granulated  sugar ;  1  teaspoon  corn  starch ; 

\\  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar ;  Pinch  of  salt. 

3  cups  boiling  water; 

Pour  the  boiling  water  into  an  aluminum  or  granite  kettle.  Pour 
in  the  corn  syrup,  stir  until  it  is  dissolved  then  pour  the  sugar  in 
the  center  of  the  kettle,  one  cup  at  a  time.  Stir  gently  after  adding 
each  cup.  Boil  rapidly  until  it  will  snap  when  poured  in  cold  water. 
Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  and  cool  quickly.  Fold  the  edges  into  the 
center  of  the  hot  taffy  before  they  become  hard,  pressing  them 
down  into  the  taffy  each  time.  This  should  be  pulled  while  very 
hot  or  it  will  be  too  hard  to  be  pulled  as  light  and  porous  as  it 
should  be.     Flavor. 


194  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


Before  pulling  reserve  two  bunches  of  the  warm  taffy,  about 
the  size  of  a  hen  egg.  Color  one  pink,  and  the  other  yellow  using 
Royce's  yellow  and  damask  rose  cake  coloring.  Fold  in  the  color- 
ing, but  do  not  pull  it.  When  the  colors  are  well  blended  have  a 
helper  hold  a  ball  in  each  hand  near  the  stove.  While  you  pull  the 
remainder  very  light,  make  into  a  smooth  roll  about  as  big  around 
as  a  rolling  pin,  divide  each  ball  of  the  pink  and  yellow  in  halves 
and  roll  on  the  warm  bread  board  about  the  size  of  a  lead  pencil 
and  as  uniform  in  size  as  possible.  Lay  it  on  the  white  roll  alter- 
nately in  quarters.  Commence  and  roll  with  both  hands,  keep  rolling, 
twisting  and  pulling,  all  at  the  same  time,  as  the  strip  gets  too 
long  to  handle ;  cut  into  strips  two  feet  long.  Have  your  helper 
pull  and  twist  them  the  desired  size  while  you  get  the  remainder 
ready.  This  must  all  be  done  quickly,  or  it  will  get  too  cold  to 
cut.  When  all  the  pieces  are  the  desired  size,  hold  the  long  sticks 
in  the  left  hand  and  the  scissors  in  the  right.  Hold  the  candy  in 
the  scissors  midway  and  have  your  helper  strike  them  gently  with 
a  hammer.     This  cuts  it  smoothly  without  breaking  the  sticks. 

Practice  makes  perfect.  Stick  candy  should  be  made  very 
hard  and  pulled  very  hot,  in  a  cool  place.  It  is  best  for  a  beginner 
to  use  half  the  quantity.     The  flavoring  is  added  when  it  is  pulled. 

GEEBO  OR  TAFFY. 

4  cups  sugar ;  1  teaspoon  corn  syrup  ; 

2  cups  boiling  water ;  1  scant  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

Pour  the  sugar  in  the  boiling  water,  add  corn  syrup  and  cream 
of  tartar  and  boil  until  it  threads.  Cool  in  buttered  pans,  fold  in 
edges  as  they  cool.  When  nearly  cold,  pull  over  hook  until  white 
and  light.  Cut  in  strips,  when  cold,  wrap  in  waxed  paper.  Any 
desired  flavor  may  be  used. 

GEEBO  LOAF. 

Make  in  the  same  manner  as  geebo,  divide  in  3  or  4  parts,  color 
and  flavor  each  part  differently.  Braid  together  and  pile  lightly  in 
a  loaf.    When  cold  break  in  pieces. 

ICE  CREAM  CANDY. 

Make  the  same  as  geebo  and  add  \  cup  of  butter.  Flavor  with 
lemon  and  vanilla.     This  has  the  exact  flavor  of  ice  cream. 

A  clear  cool  day  is  best  for  making  candies.     Use  only  best  materials  if 
you  wish  best  results. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  195 


CHOCOLATE  GEEBO. 

Make  the  same  as  white  geebo,  and  add  J  cup  cocoa  to  4  cups 
of  sugar  before  pouring  it  into  the  water.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Just  before  pouring  into  pan  add  a  pinch  of  soda  and  a  little 
vanilla. 

HOAR  HOUND  CANDY. 

4  cups  light  brown  sugar ;  J  package  of  hoarhound,  boiled  in 

2  cups  granulated  sugar ;  three  cups  water. 

1  tablespoon  corn  syrup ; 

Boil  the  hoarhound  and  water  together,  strain  and  add  sugar 
and  corn  syrup.  Cook  hard  like  stick  candy.  Pour  in  shallow  but- 
tered pan  9x15  inches,  invert  on  a  warm  bread  board  while  candy 
is  very  hot  in  center,  use  a  long  heavy  buttered  knife  that  will  reach 
across  the  pan,  press  down  and  move  the  knife  back  and  forth 
sideways  to  make  the  sticks  rounding  on  top  and  flat  on  the  bot- 
tom (like  factory  candy)  cutting  through.  Now  cut  lengthways 
through  the  center,  cut  off  the  side  ends,  strike  knife  lightly  with 
a  hammer.  This  is  the  most  difficult  to  make  of  any  candy  and  re- 
quires patience  and  practice.  It  it  gets  too  cold  to  cut,  put  it  in 
the  oven  on  the  grate  for  a  few  minutes. 

MOLASSES  TAFFY. 

2  cups  brown  sugar ;  1  cup  water ; 

1  cup  sorghum  molasses ;  1  tablespoon  corn  syrup. 

Boil  all  together  until  it  threads,  add  ^  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 
in  ^teaspoon  vanilla.  Stir  in  and  remove  from  fire.  Pour  in  but- 
tered pan.  Cool  by  folding  edges  to  the  center.  When  cool  enough 
to  handle  pull  on  a  hook  and  cut  into  sticks. 

TAFFY  KISSES. 

Make  a  white  taffy  and  pull  into  strips  ^  inch  thick  and  two 
inches  long.  AA'hile  warm  cut  crossways  with  dull  scissors.  White 
taffy  may  be  made  in  different  colors  and  flavors.  Stripe  like  stick 
candy.  After  the  taffy  has  been  pulled  out  about  an  inch  thick 
lay  2  or  3  rows  of  the  colored  taffy  lengthways  on  the  taffy.  Pull 
out  and  cut. 

Cheap  and  easily  made.     Excellent   for  a  Christmas  collection. 

Every  house  wife  should  own  a  candy  hook,  which  can  be  made  at  a  black- 
smith shop  out  of  strap  iron  (at  a  small  expense),  with  two  screw  holes  to 
fasten  to  the  side  of  your  kitchen  window,  18  inches  above  the  kitchen  table  if 
possible.     This  makes  a  handy  place  to  hang  jelly  bags  to  drip. 


196  TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


CHOCOLATE  CHIPS. 

4  cups  brown  sugar ;  \  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar ; 

1  cup  water;  Pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  until  it  is  brittle,  put  in  \  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  \ 
teaspoon  vanilla  just  before  taking  off  the  stove.  Pour  in  buttered 
pan,  cool  by  tucking  in  the  edges  toward  center.  Pull  while  warm 
until  light  and  porous.  Pull  out  J  inch  thick  and  1-J  inches  wide, 
cut  2  inches  long  with  the  scissors.  Cool  on  waxed  paper  until  hard. 
Dip  in  melted  chocolates  the  same  as  creams.  Put  on  waxed  candy 
paper. 

CHOCOLATE  CARMELS.    No.  1. 

1  envelope  gelatine  (soaked  2 \  cups  A  sugar; 

in  f  cup  milk)  ;  \\  squares  Bakers  chocolate; 

lj  cups  new  milk;  Pinch  of  salt. 

\  cup  chopped  nuts; 

Flavor  with  vanilla.  Set  the  soaked  gelatine  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water  to  melt  while  boiling  the  other  ingredients  together  for  2 
minutes,  add  the  gelatine  and  boil  all  one  more  minute.  Pour  into 
a  buttered  pan  when  nearly  cold.  Cut  in  squares.  Wrap  in  waxed 
paper. 

CHOCOLATE  CARMELS.    No.  2. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar ;  5  cent  can  Pet  cream ; 
1  cup  light  brown  sugar ;  \  cup  butter ; 

1  cup  corn  syrup ;  2  tablespoons  cocoa. 

Boil  syrup  to  the  soft  ball  stage  then  pour  enough  boiling 
water  over  the  cocoa  to  dissolve  it,  add  the  Pet  cream  and  boil  to 
the  soft  ball  stage  again,  being  careful  not  to  burn  it.  Pour  in  but- 
tered pans  and  cut  in  inch  squares.  When  cold  wrap  in  waxed 
papers. 

SOFT  MAPLE  CARMELS. 

One  cup  maple  syrup,  one-half  cup  cream,  lump  butter.  Boil 
until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Let  stand 
until  cool,  then  beat  to  a  cream.  Put  in  buttered  tins  and  cut  in 
squares. 

STICK  CANDY  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  cool  place,  if  too  cold  it  will 
sweat,  if  too  hot,  it  will  go  to  sugar.  DO  NOT  use  weak,  inferior  flavoring,  or 
coloring  extracts,  as  too  much  liquid  added  to  candies  after  they  are  cooked, 
makes  them  soft  and  sticky.     Therefore  only  the  best  brands  should  be  used. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


197 


BUTTER  SCOTCH. 


4  cups  brown  sugar ; 

|  cup  butter ; 

1  teaspoon  vanilla ; 


1  cup  boiling  water ; 

^  cup  swTeet  cream  or  Pet  cream; 

2  tablespoons  corn  syrup. 


Boil  all  ingredients  together  except  the  cream  until  it  will  form 
a  ball  a  little  harder  than  fondant.  Pour  in  cream  and  boil  slowly 
for  about  5  minutes.  Pour  in  a  pan  with  removable  sides.  When 
nearly  cold  cut  in  squares  with  a  large  butcher  or  meat  knife.  Very 
nice  dipped  in  chocolate. 

FUDGE.  No.  1. 


2  cups  boiling  water; 

5  cent  can  Pet  cream  or  fresh 


5  cups  brown  sugar ; 

■J  cup  Bakers  cocoa; 

Pinch  of  salt;  cream. 

2  tablespoons  corn  syrup ; 

Mix  cocoa  and  sugar  well  together  and  pour  into  a  kettle 
with  the  boiling  water.  Let  boil  a  little  past  the  soft  ball  stage 
before  pouring  in  the  milk  or  cream.  Boil  slowly  for  about  5  min- 
utes longer,  scraping  it  loose  from  the  bottom  occasionally  to  pre- 
vent burning.  Turn  into  a  cold  pan  and  cool  quickly,  stirring  the 
edges  to  the  center  once  in  a  while.  When  cool  enough  to  bear  the 
finger  in  it  begin  stirring'  When  it  begins  to  grain  pour  in  one 
cup  chopped  nuts  and  pour  into  par.  If  too  hard  put  in  ice  chest 
to  cool.  If  too  soft  put  in  a  warm  place  and  the  moisture  will  evap- 
orate. Put  in  a  cold  place  before  cutting.  Fudge  should  be- soft 
and  creamy.  If  stirred  while  too  hot  it  will  be  hard  and  sugary,  if 
too  cold  it  will  be  slow  to  grain.     Warm  a  little  and  repeat  stirring. 

MAPLE  FUDGE. 

Make  the  same  as  fudge,  but  do  not  cook  quite  so  long  and  cool 
a   little  longer  before   stirring. 

FUDGE.    No.  2. 

Take  about  a  pint  of  fondant.  Melt  4  squares  of  bitter  choco- 
late to  a  soft  paste,  not  too  warm.  Knead  the  chocolate  in  until  it 
suits  the  taste.  Flatten  out  with  the  hands  onto  greased  paper. 
When  solid  cut  into  squares. 

Carmels,  "butterscotch,  and  fudge,  should  be  cooked  slowly  at  the  last  as 
they  stick  and  burn  easily. 


198  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


COCOANUT  FUDGE. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  ounces  of 
butter,  one-half  teaspoon  of  any  preferred  flavoring,  one  cup 
of  cocoanut.  Put  sugar  and  milk  over  fire  until  the  boiling 
point  is  reached,  add  butter  and  cook  a  little  past  the  soft 
ball  stage.  Cool  and  stir  as  for  fondant.  When  done  knead  in  the 
cocoanut  and  put  into  pan. 

FIG  CREAMS. 

3  cups  sugar ;  1  cup  cream ; 
^  cup  corn  syrup  ;                                  ^  cup  water ; 

^  pound  figs ;  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

Cook  sugar,  water,  cream  and  syrup  a  little  past  the  soft  ball 
stage.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  lemon  juice.  Cool  and  stir  same 
as  fondant.     Add  the  finely  chopped  figs,  and  mold. 

CINNAMON  ROLLS. 

4  cups  of  A  sugar ;  H  cups  boiling  water ; 

J  cup  butter;  1  tablespoon  corn  syrup. 

Pinch  of  salt ; 

Boil,  cool  and  stir,  the  same  as  fondant.  Make  into  small  rolls 
and  dust  with  powdered  cinnamon. 

MINT  WAFERS. 

To  1  cup  melted  fondant  stir  in  1  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar 
and  add  mint  flavoring.  Put  the  fondant  in  a  small  cream  pitcher,  heat 
in  boiling  water  until  thin  enough  to  pour  well  before  adding  the 
sugar.  Stir  well,  dust  a  window  pane  with  a  little  corn  starch. 
Pour  the  fondant  on  in  wafer  size  of  half  dollar.  Hold  a  table- 
spoon in  the  left  hand  to  catch  the  drip  from  falling.  The  glass 
should  be  perfectly  level  or  the  wafers  will  not  be  round.  Never 
pour  any  water  in  the  fondant  or  the  wafers  will  stick.  Put  them 
away  in  a  cool  place  for  several  hours. 

This  requires  practice  and  must  be  done  quickly  or  the  fondant 
will  get  too  hard  to  pour.     Too  much  heating  makes  them  sugary. 

Different  colors  and  flavors  may  be  used,  which  makes  them 
more  attractive.     Make  white  ones  first. 

Do  not  scrape  the  candy  which  sticks  to  the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  kettle 
if  you  do  not  want  your  candies  to  go  to  sugar. 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  199 


MAPLE  DELIGHT. 

2  cups  maple  syrup ;  1  envelope  gelatine  dissolved  in 

Pinch  of  salt ;  \  cup  cold  water. 

Boil  the  syrup  2  minutes,  add  the  dissolved  gelatine  and  simmer 
1  minute.  Pour  1  inch  deep  in  small  pan,  and  let  stand  over  night. 
Mix  1  cup  pulverized  sugar  with  one-fourth  cup  corn  starch,  sift 
on  board,  set  candy  in  pan  of  water  hot  enough  to  bear  the  fingers, 
cut  into  cubes.  Roll  well  in  the  sugar.  Put  on  waxed  paper  in  a 
dry  warm  place.     This  is  sure  to  delight  lovers  of  maple. 

PINEAPPLE  DELIGHT. 

H  cups  pineapple  juice,  canned         1  envelope  of  gelatine  dissolved 

or  fresh ;  in  -|  cup  cold  water ; 

1^  cups  granulated  sugar;  Juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

If  fresh  unsweetened  pineapple  juice  is  used,  it  should  be 
cooked  and  ^  cup  more  sugar  used.  Strain  juices  and  boil  with 
the  sugar  for  5  minutes.  Add  the  dissolved  gelatine.  Stir  well. 
Let  boil  two  more  minutes.  Mould  and  cut  the  same  as  maple  de- 
light. 

STRAWBERRY  DELIGHT. 

Use  1-J  cups  canned  juice,  1  envelope  of  gelatine,  1  cup  sugar 
and  1  cup  cold  water. 

Make  the  same  as  pineapple  delight.  Any  kind  of  juices  may 
be  used  in  the  same  manner. 

Plymouth  Rock  gelatine  was  used  in  the  above  recipes. 

NUT  BRITTLE. 

Put  two  cups  granulated  sugar  in  a  frying  pan  on  a  medium 
hot  stove.  Stir  and  mash  constantly  with  a  wire  potato  masher, 
as  shown  on  opposite  preface  page,  until  it  is  melted.  Pour  immedi- 
ately over  any  kind  of  nuts  which  have  been  sprinkled  in  a  buttered 
pan. 

PEANUT  BRITTLE. 

Make  same  as  nut  brittle,  using  brown  sugar  instead  of  granu- 
lated. Before  .pouring  over  the  peanuts  put  in  J  teaspoon  soda  and 
stir  well. 


200  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


SALTED  ALMONDS 

Blanch  half  a  pound  of  almonds  by  pouring  over  them  one  pint 
boiling  water;  let  stand  three  minutes.  Drain  and  cover  with  cold 
water.  Remove  the  skins  and  dry  the  almonds  on  a  towel.  Fry  in 
hot  fat,  using  equal  parts  of  butter  and  lard.  Drain  on  brown  pa- 
per and  sprinkle  with  salt. 

CONEY  ISLAND  CRISP. 

4  cups  brown  sugar;  Pinch  of  salt; 

i  cup  corn  syrup ;  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

1  cup  boiling  water; 

Boil  until  it  threads,  have  a  dish  pan  buttered,  fill  half  full  of 
nice  crisp  popcorn.  Pour  boiling  syrup  over  it,  take  out  of  doors 
and  stir.  Toss  with  large  fork  until  crisp  and  hairy.  Cool  on  bread 
board.     Simply  fine. 

Harry  Richardson,  West  Bay  City,  Mich. 

CRACKER  JACK. 

\  cup  New  Orleans  molasses ;  4  cups  Drown  sugar ; 

\  cup  corn  syrup ;  1  cup  boiling  water ; 

Boil  all  together  until  it  is  brittle.  Dissolve  1  level  teaspoon 
soda  in  \  teaspoon  vanilla.  Stir  and  let  rise  to  the  top  of  the  kettle. 
Pour  over  prepared  corn  and  cool  same  as  for  Coney  Island  Crisp. 
Sprinkle  1  cup  or  more  of  nuts  over  corn  before  pouring  on  the 
syrup. 

CANDIED  GRAPES. 

Select  nice  white  or  red  California  grapes.  Leave  a  tiny  stem 
on  them.  Wash  and  dry  well.  Dip  in  melted  fondant  of  different 
colors  or  they  may  be  dipped  in  melted  chocolate  the  same  as 
creams.  Other  fruits  may  be  treated  in  the  same  way.  Nice  for 
parties. 

PUFFED  RICE  OR  WHEAT  CRISP. 

Make  the  same  as  Coney  Island  crisp.  White  sugar  may  be 
used.  It  is  nice  made  into  bricks.  Add  1  cup  chopped  nuts.  Cut 
into  squares. 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  201 


MEMORANDA 


202  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 


MEMORANDA 


MODERN  METHOD  OF  CLEANING  A  DUCK. 

If  it  is  a  white  duck  and  you  wish  to  cure  the  wings  for  your 
fall  hat,  put  the  duck  in  a  paper  flour  sack,  tie  a  strong  cord  around 
the  neck  leaving  the  head  out.  Hang  on  a  wire  clothes  line  to  stick. 
When  dead  untie  the  sack,  and  cut  off  wings  at  second  joint  being 
careful  not  to  allow  any  blood  to  touch  them.  Straighten  out  and 
put  under  a  weight,  or  send  to  a  taxidermist  immediately.  Wings 
cured  in  this  manner  are  worth  several  dollars,  and  can  be  used  from 
year  to  year  by  washing  with  ivory  soap  and  soft  water.  A  little 
blueing  should  be  added  to  the  water.  Hang  on  a  line  in  the  sun  to 
dry.    Remove  from  line  and  brush  with  a  soft  bristle  brush. 

To  scald  the  duck  remove  all  large  feathers,  melt  1  cake  of 
paraffine  wax  in  the  boiling  water  in  which  it  is  scalded.  Dip  the 
duck  until  feathers  are  loosened.  Lay  it  on  a  board  until  the  paraffine 
hardens.  Then  feathers  and  down  can  be  removed  together. 
Singe  and  scrape  with  a  dull  knife  and  wash  in  warm  soda  water. 

A  goose  may  be  dressed  in  the  same  manner.  To  dress  other 
fowls  put  1  tablespoonful  of  soda  in  the  water  in  which  they  are 
scalded.  This  cleanses  the  skin  well.  A  cup  of  cold  water  should 
be  added  to  the  water  in  which  young  chickens  are  scalded. 

To  cure  chickens  of  roup,  take  as  much  powdered  yellow  root 
as  you  can  hold  between  your  thumb  and  finger  and  put  down  their 
throats. 

TO  START  A  GASOLINE  STOVE  after  it  has  burned  dry,  fill 
and  open  all  the  valves  to  allow  all  the  air  in  the  pipes  to  escape. 
Put  your  mouth  over  the  hole  in  top  of  can  and  blow  hard  several 
times,  being  careful  not  to  inhale  the  fumes  from  the  gasoline.  Close 
all  the  valves,  fill  the  cup  with  wood  alcohol  or  gasoline  and  gener- 
ate in  the  usual  manner. 

TO  REVIVE  A  WOOD  OR  COAL  FIRE  that  has  burned  low, 
use  a  spoonful  of  granulated  sugar.  It  has  the  same  effect  as  kero- 
sene and  is  safe. 

POLISH  BLUE  STEEL  RANGES  with  a  damp  cloth  and  bon 
ami.  Rub  dry  with  a  woolen  cloth.  Clean  soap  suds  may  be  used  and 
should  be  polished  while  damp  with  a  dry  linen  towel. 


4»  Northeast  Cor. 

t  Second  and 
* 

*  Washin'ton 


* 


* 
* 

* 


Marion 
Indiana 


THE  LARGEST 

Home  Furnishing  House 

in  Northern  Indiana 


CASH  OR  PAYMENTS 


* 

* 

* 
* 


|Sutton  &  Crandle,  Leading  Grocers,    Warren,  Indiana 
♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦ 


G  31 


♦ 
•  ♦ 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  205 


TO  CLEAN  ISINGLASS,  BATH  TUBS,  SINKS  and  GREASE 
SPOTS  ON  FLOORS,  USE  DUTCH  CLEANSER. 

KEROSENE  for  zincs,  tubs,  etc.,  and  Solarine  for  brass  and 
silver. 

Flour  improves  with  age  and  should  always  be  kept  in  a  warm, 
dry  place.  Bread  will  come  more  quickly  if  the  chill  is  taken  off 
the  flour  before  mixing. 

PIES  should  always  be  set  on  a  wire  rest  or  pie  rack  to  cool, 
as  this  prevents  the  bottom  from  sweating  and  becoming  soaked. 

LETTUCE  AND  CABBAGE  should  never  be  salted  until  ready 
to  serve. 

APPLES  for  salad  should  be  used  immediately  after  being 
peeled. 

SALAD  should  be  served  as  soon  as  it  is  made. 

TO  MAKE  GOOD  GRAVY  pour  in  1^  cups  of  water  and  let 
boil  while  preparing  the  thickening  made  of  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  and  \  cup  of  cream.  Beat  with  Dover  egg  beater  until  free 
from  lumps,  pour  into  the  boiling  water  and  stir  well. 

BREAD  IS  MORE  FLAKY  if  cut  lengthways  of  the  loaf. 

TO  GRATE  CHOCOLATE  IN  HOT  WEATHER  wrap  well  in 
waxed  paper  and  put  in  a  refrigerator  until  cold  (if  moist,  wipe  dry 
before  grating). 

The  dark  colored  California  oranges  are  best  when  you  wish 
to  use  the  grated  peel  for  flavoring  purposes. 

Dark  colored  thin  peeled  lemons  are  best. 

Never  use  the  juice  of  a  lemon  for  cooking  purposes  or  ices  if 
the  seeds  have  sprouted.  Save  them  to  remove  stains  with  or  for 
cleaning  brass  or  aluminum  utensils. 

Do  not  turn  cups,  cans  or  glasses  up  side  down,  as  it  gives  them 
a  bad  odor.     Air  purifies  them. 


I  The  Largest  Piano  Store 

m 

in  Northern  Indiana 


♦ 

♦ 
♦ 


♦ 
♦ 


♦ 
♦ 


♦ 

♦ 
♦ 


♦ 

♦ 
♦ 


♦ 


Invites  the  Housewife  to  come  in  and  visit  the  store 
where  everything  is  musical. 

Victrolas  $1,5  and  Up 


♦ 
♦ 

♦ 


Railroad  fare  paid  to  all  piano  buyers  liv- 
ing within  fifty  miles  of  Marion. 


I  Butler  Music  Company 


5tK  and  "Washington  Sts.,   Marion,   Indiana 


♦ 
♦ 
♦ 

♦ 

♦ 
♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 
♦ 

♦ 
•  ♦ 


Prepare     For    Self 


Support 


Every  young  man  and  young  woman 
should  secure  an  education  that  would 
make  them  self  supporting  in  case  of 
emergency.  You  cannot  tell  what  the 
future  may  hold  in  store  for  you. 
Furthermore,  if  you  are  desirous  of 
getting  started  in  some  good  line  of 
business  as  a  bookkeeper  and  stenog- 
rapher, do  not  lose  any  time  in  writ- 
ing us  for  complete  information.  You 
may  enter  any  time.  Phone  2060. 
You  will  find  us  in  the  Columbian 
Block,  one  square  north  of  court 
house,  Washington  Street. 

ORA  E.  BUTZ,  Business  Mgr. 

Marion  Business  College 

Marion,  Indiana 


All  the  New  Things  in  Jewelry. 
We  are  headquarters  for 

Watches  and 
Diamonds 


*  •  •• 


The    Largest     Stock 
The  Leading  Jeweler 

A  Good  Elgin 
Movement .... 

$4.85 

Other  things  in  proportion 

Dr.  C.  C.  Faris 

The  Jeweler,  Marion,  Ind. 


•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦ ©♦•♦•♦•♦•♦©♦•♦•♦•♦•♦♦♦•♦•♦•♦•4 •♦•♦*♦•♦•♦ 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  207 


Chloroform  will  remove  paint  and  grease  spots  without  leaving 
a  ring,  by  laying  fabric  on  a  piece  of  blotting  paper  and  beginning 
at  the  outer  edge  of  the  spot  and  rubbing  toward  the  center.  The 
chloroform  drives  the  grease  from  the  goods  into  the  blotting  paper. 

Chloroform  is  the  only  thing  that  will  remove  chewing  gum  suc- 
cessfully. 

NEVER  TAMPER  WITH  CHLOROFORM  if  you  have  a  weak 
heart.  When  using  it  for  cleaning  purposes  always  be  near  an  open 
window  or  door. 

OLD  LACE  CURTAINS  sewed  together  double  make  fine  sani- 
tary dish  rags,  and  the  coarser  the  better. 

TO  CLEAN  ENAMELED  WARE  where  mixtures  have  been 
burned  on.  Half  fill  with  cold  water  add  washing  soda,  or  any  soap 
powder,  heat  gradually  to  the  boiling  point  and  then  empty,  when 
dish  may  be  easily  washed. 

TO  REMOVE  IRON  RUST,  saturate  spot  with  lemon  juice, 
then  cover  with  salt.    Let  stand  in  the  sun. 

TO  REMOVE  INK  SPOTS  FROM  THE  FINGERS  wet  the 
finger  and  then  rub  the  phosphorus  end  of  a  match  on  the  spot. 
Wipe  the  fingers  and  renew  the  action  until  the  spot  has  dis- 
appeared. 

GRASS  STAINS  ON  CLOTHING  should  be  saturated  with 
•ilcohol  for  a  little  time,  then  wash  in  clear  water. 

TO  CLEAN  PIANO  KEYS  rub  over  with  a  cloth  saturated  with 
dlcohol. 

TO  CLEAN  A  PIANO  TARNISHED  BY  GAS,  take  1  quart  of 
♦varm  rain  water,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  ammonia  and  enough  castile 
soap  to  make  the  water  the  least  bit  soapy.  Wash  with  a  chamois 
skin,  wrung  dry,,  a  small  portion  at  a  time.  Roll  the  chamois  skin 
into  a  tight  roll  and  polish  with  the  grain  of  the  wood  by  taking 
long  strokes  as  you  would  to  dry  a  window  with  a  rubber  window 
washer.  This  method  is  used  by  piano  dealers.  And  may  be  used 
to  remove  finger  marks  or  any  other  tarnish.  This  gives  as  bright  a 
lustre  as  any  polish,  and  the  dust  is  more  easily  removed. 


♦  • 

♦ 
♦ 
♦ 

♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 

♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 

♦ 

•  ♦ 


♦  •♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦• 

The  Home  Pride  Malle=l 


able  Range 


The  Range  with  a  National  Reputation  and  Possessing  Every 

Improvement  of  Value  Known  to  the  Range  Business 

The  only  Range  with  a  perfect  FIRE  BOX  and  OVEN,  making  the  HOME 
PRIDE  a  great  fuel  saver.     The  oven   of   the    HOME   PRIDE    is   the 

only  one  high  enough  to  take  in  a  large  size  roaster  on  the  oven  rack, 
leaving  the  entire  oven  bottom  free  for  other  purposes.  Manufactured 
only  by  the 

MARION  STOVE  CO.,  MARION,  INDIANA 

To  Whom  it  May  Concern: 

This  certifies  that  I  have  owned  and  used  a  HOME  PRIDE  MALLEABLE 
RANGE  for  the  past  NINE  YEARS,  and  it  is  today  practically  as  good  as  new,  and  I 
believe  it  to  be  the  best  Range  I  ever  saw.  I  further  certify  that  each  and  every  one 
of  the  recipes  given  in  this  book  were  perfected  and  fully  tried  out  on  my  HOME 
PRIDE  RANGE.    I  take  pleasure  in  recommending  it  to  all  who  want  a  good  Range. 

Sincerely  yours,  MRS.  CLARA  WARE. 


♦ 

♦ 
♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 
♦ 

♦ 

O 

♦ 
♦ 
♦ 

9 
♦ 

♦ 

♦ 


♦ 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  209 


TO  REMOVE  FRUIT  STAINS.  Stretch  the  fabric  containing 
the  stain  over  the  month  of  a  basin  and  pour  boiling  water  on  the 
stain.  In  cold  weather  fruit  spots  can  frequently  be  removed  by 
hanging  the  stained  garments  out  of  doors  over  night.  If  the  stain 
has  been  fixed  by  time,  soak  the  article  in  a  weak  solution  of  oxalic 
acid  or  hold  it  over  the  fumes  of  sulphur. 

TO  REMOVE  CHOCOLATE  AND  COCOA  STAINS.  Wash 
with  soap  in  tepid  water. 

HOT  TEA  AND  COFFEE  STAINS.  Soak  the  stained  fabric  in 
cold  water ;  spread  out  and  pour  a  few  drops  of  glycerine  on  each 
spot.  Let  it  stand  several  hours ;  then  wash  with  cold  water  and 
soap. 

IODINE  STAINS.  Wash  with  alcohol  then  rinse  in  soapy 
water. 

BLOOD  STAINS.  Soak  in  cold  salt  water;  then  wash  in  warm 
water  with  plenty  of  soap ;  afterward  boil. 

MILDEW.  Soak  in  a  weak  solution  of  chloride  of  lime  for 
several  hours.     Rinse  in  cold  water. 

TO  REMOVE  INK  STAINS  FROM  WHITE  GOODS.  Dampen 
stain,  dissolve  oxalic  acid  and  apply  to  stain.  L^se  five  cents '  worth 
of  oxalic  acid  to  1  pint  or  more  of  soft  water.  This  is  superior  to 
lemon  juice  for  removing  stains  from  the  hands.  Do  not  use  too 
strong.     It  will  also  remove  tan. 

To  fix  colors  in  calicoes  and  percales  dissolve  one-half  cup  of 
salt  in  1  gallon  of  hot  water,  cool  and  soak  garment  for  one-half 
hour,  ring  out,  hang  on  the  clothes  line  in  the  shade  to  dry.  after 
which  take  from  line,  rinse  in  warm  water,  wash  in  weak  soap  suds; 
rinse,  starch,  dry  and  press  in  the  usual  way. 

To  fix  light  solid  colors,  such  as  blue,  slate  and  stone  colored 
cotton  fabrics  dissolve  1  ounce  of  sugar  of  lead  in  2  J  gallons  of 
boiling  soft  water,  cool  and  strain,  immerse  garment  and  soak  1  to 
2  hours;  wring  well,  hang  in  the  shade  until  dry.  Take  from  line, 
rinse  well  in  warm  water  to  remove  every  trace  of  the  lead  as  it  is 
very  poisonous,  then  wash  in  warm  weak  soap  suds.  Rinse,  starch 
and  dry. 


♦ 

♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 


lAMOtiS  HOOSIER 
jAV£S/f/l£5  C 


♦ 
♦ 
♦ 

♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 

♦ 
♦ 
♦ 


Best  Stocks,  Lowest  Prices,  Prompt  Service   ♦ 

♦ 


Makes  Our  Store  a    Good    Place   to  Trade 

WE  WANT   YOU  TO  SEE  US 


You  Will    Be     Well    Repaid  ♦ 

H.  BROWN  &  SON! 


Furniture 


PHONE  lOO 


WARREN,  INDIANA 


♦ 


Undertaking 


♦  •♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦*♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦©♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦• 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  211 


To  fix  black  and  other  dark  colors,  dissolve  2-|  cupfuls  of  salt 
in  2-J-  gallons  hot  water.  Cool,  soak  garment  10  minutes,  wring  out 
and  dry  in  the  shade.  When  dry  take  from  the  line,  rinse  in  warm 
water,  wash  in  weak  soap  suds,  as  above  mentioned. 

To  fix  pink,  red  and  green  fabrics  use  i  cup  strong  vinegar  to 
2-J  gallons  of  cold  water.  Soak  garment  5  minutes,  wring  partly 
dry,  hang  on  the  line  in  the  shade.  When  dry  take  from  line,  rinse 
well  before  putting  into  the  soap  suds,  as  the  acid  in  the  vinegar 
kills  the  soap.     Wash  and  dry  as  other  garments. 

To  restore  the  color  to  linen  colored  garments,  boil  a  wisp  of 
timothy  hay  in  as  much  soft  water  as  is  needed  until  the  color  is  as 
dark  as  desired.  Cool  and  strain,  immerse  the  garment,  stir  until 
the  color  is  restored.  Dry  and  press.  The  garment  should  first  be 
washed  in  weak  soap  suds  if  soiled. 

To  shrink  new  dress  materials,  fix  the  colors  the  same  as  for 
garments ;  rub  well  with  the  hands,  fold  nicely  before  running 
through  the  wringer.    Dry  until  damp  enough  to  iron  well. 

TO  CLEAN  CORRODE  FROM  THE  CLOTHES  LINE  use  a 
piece  of  coarse  cloth  dampened  with  kerosene.  Rub  dry  with  wool- 
en or  linen  cloth. 

TO  PREVENT  CLOTHES  FROM  FREEZING  to  the  line,  wipe 
the  line  with  a  cloth  dampened  in  salt  water. 

TO  DRY  LACE  DOOR  PANELS  wash  and  starch  and  put  back 
on  door  to  dry.    They  are  sure  to,  fit  this  way. 

TO  SPRINKLE  CLOTHES  always  use  real  warm  water. 

The  labor  of  ironing  can  be  greatly  lessened  by  folding  linens 
and  pillow  slips  before  running  them  through  the  wringer.  Linens 
should  be  taken  down  while  damp  enough  to  iron  and  folded.  They 
should  never  be  allowed  to  freeze,  as  freezing  makes  them  fuzzy 
and  rough.    Add  a  little  fresh  lard  to  the  starch  when  boiling. 

Never  use  salt  to  sweep  carpets.  It  rots  them  and  makes  damp 
spots  for  dirt  to  settle  in.  which  looks  like  grease  spots. 


♦  •♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦ 


♦ 
♦ 
♦ 

♦ 

♦ 


SWANS  DOWN 
T^m  CAKE  FLOUR 


AWARDED 

GRAND  PRIZE 

ST.  LOUIS 

WORLD'S  FAIR 

1904 


Makes 

Lightest, 

Whitest, 

Finest 

Cakes 

CAKE  SECRETS,  a  valuable 
book  brimful  of  Cake  Recipes 
and  information  on  baking:  fine 
Cakes  SENT  FREE  on  receipt  of 
2c  stamp  and  your  Grocer's  Name- 
Address  Dep't 

Each  Package  Contains  Flour  for 
12  Cakes  and  12  Cake  Recipes 


IGLEHEART  BROS.,  Evansville,  Ind, 


Also  Manufacturers  of  the 
Famous 


Swans  Down  Pure 
Wheat  (■££)  Gra- 
ham Flour 


Sold  Only  in  Packages 


Blackman 
Sanitarium 

Most    Completely      Equipped 
Sanitarium  in  Indiana  for 

Health 


Systematic  Outdoor  Life 
Mineral  BatHs 

Dr.  C.  J.  BLACKMAN 

Physician-in-Chief 

BLUFFTON,  IND. 

Biggest      Busiest      Best 


THE 

BROWN 

LAUNDRY 


♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 

♦ 


♦ 


♦ 
♦ 

a 
♦ 

♦ 

9 
♦ 

♦ 

♦ 


♦ 
♦ 
♦ 
♦ 


We  Have  Agents  in  All  Towns 


MARION,  INDIANA 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  213 


To  clean  blue  and  white  carpets,  make  a  paste  of  coarse  corn- 
meal  and  gasoline,  scatter  over  carpet  and  scrub  well.  Let  lav  until 
the  gasoline  evaporates,  sweep  off  with  a  clean  broom.  For  spring 
and  fall  cleaning  the  carpets  should  be  swept  with  a  vacuum  cleaner 
before  using  the  paste.  Other  carpets  may  be  cleaned  in  the  same 
manner. 


TO  REMOVE  MACHINE  GREASE  FROM  THIN  FABRICS. 
Put  the  fabric  between  clean  blotters,  press  with  a  hot  iron.  If  the 
spot  is  of  long  standing,  sponge  with  chloroform  before  applying  the 
top  blotter  and  iron. 

TO  WASH  BLANKETS.  Wash  in  hike  warm  rain  water  with 
ivory  or  wool  soap.  Rinse  in  a  weak  warm  suds  and  hang  in  the 
sun.     A  windy  day  is  preferred. 

TO  CLEAN  WHITE  OR  CREAM  SERGE.  Make  a  paste  of 
gasoline  and  fine  white  corn  meal,  scrub  with  a  clean  bristle  brush. 
AYhen  dry  brush  well.  Or  put  a  pan  of  gasoline  into  a  larger  ves- 
sel, containing  boiling  water,  cover  well  until  the  gasoline  becomes 
hot.  Put  the  fabric  in  and  rub  well.  Rinse  in  clean  gasoline,  dry 
and  press. 

Always  iron  underwear  on  the  wrong  side.  Silk  and  woolen 
garments  should  be  washed  the  same  as  blankets,  and  should  be 
taken  from  the  line  and  pressed  while  still  damp. 

FOR  WASHING  BLACK  COTTON  FABRICS.  Use  one  table- 
spoonful  of  gelatine  to  1  quart  of  hot  water  instead  of  starch. 


TO  SOFTEN  WATER  FOR  WASHING.  Put  one  ounce  of 
caustic  soda  in  five  gallons  of  water  and  let  stand  over  night.  The 
impurities  will  all  settle  to  the  bottom,  leaving  the  water  perfectly 
clear  and  soft. 


A  SMALL  AMOUNT  of  caustic  soda  used  in  scrubbing  will  re- 
move all  grease  stains  from  the  floor. 


Office  Phone 
J  00 


Res.  Phone 

75 


♦ 
♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 
♦ 


♦ 
♦ 


♦ 


♦ 
♦ 


♦ 


A.E.STUART 


FUNERAL  DIRECTOR 


Ambulance  Calls  Answered 
Promp  ly 


MARION,  INDIANA 


CREAM!  CREAM!  I 


502  S.  Boots 
Street 


Opposite  the 
Y.  M.  C.  A. 


WARREN  ICE 
CREAM  CO. 


•Ices  For- 


Parties 
Socials 

Home  Use 
Receptions 

Best  of  Service 

C.  W.  COLBERT 

Proprietor 

Phone  215       Warren,  Ind. 


♦ 
♦ 
♦ 

GLOVER  LEAF  CREAMERY  \ 


We  Want  Your  Cream. 
Highest  Prices  Paid. 

Our  Motto: 

Honest  Weight 

Fair  Tests 


COMPANY 


J.  H.  KNOTT,  Manager 


♦ 
♦ 


DEXHEIMER'S! 


Photographs 

Always 

Please 


♦ 


♦ 

♦ 
♦ 


Corner  Third  and  Adams  Streets  ♦ 


MARION,  INDIANA 


♦ 


•  ♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦ 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  215 

COMBINED    TONING   AND   FIXING   BATH     FOR     GELATINE 

PAPER  ONLY. 

Water,  80  oz.,  or  2\  qts. ;  Sulphite  of  soda,  12  grs. ; 

Hyposulphite  of  soda,  16  oz. ;  Acetate  of  lead,  \  oz. ; 

Acetate  of  soda,  1  oz. ;  Gold,  4  grs. 
Sulphate  of  soda,  2  oz. ; 

Use  distilled  or  other  pure  water.  Dissolve  the  hyposulphite 
of  soda  in  1  quart  hot  water,  add  the  remaining  water  and  the  other 
chemicals  in  the  order  as  given  in  table,  except  the  gold  which 
should  not  be  added  until  all  the  rest  have  been  dissolved  and  fil- 
tered through  filtering  paper.  This  bath  will  keep  six  months  or 
more.  Should  be  kept  in  glass  cans.  Do  not  allow  any  metal  to 
come  in  contact  with  it. 

HOW  TO  PLANT  RADISHES. 

Soak  them  half  a  day  in  luke  warm  water.  Take  1  quart  soot 
and  \  cup  of  any  good  insect  powder  or  louse  killer,  sift  it  with  the 
soot.  Drain  the  seeds  and  mix  with  it,  then  sow  broadcast  over  the 
ground  and  rake  them  in.  This  method  will  keep  the  little  radish 
worms  away.    This  is  an  experiment  of  my  own,  and  is  a  success. 

SENNA  .PRUNES  (FOR  CONSTIPATION.) 

24  prunes ;  1  pint  of  boiling  water ; 

2  tablespoons  senna  leaves. 

Steep  senna  in  the  water,  where  it  will  keep  hot  two  hours,  then 
strain,  wash  stew  pan  and  put  in  the  senna  water  and  prunes.  Cover 
and  simmer  until  the  prunes  have  absorbed  all  the  water,  then  put 
in  a  jar  and  use  as  required.  These  are  delicious  and  will  keep  for 
months. 


♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦»♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦• 

♦  OUR  ; 

!  TIP  TOP  FLOURl 

♦ ■__     • 

t  ; 

♦  MAKES  I 

♦  ; 


!  Delicious  Pastry  and  i 
j  Delightful  Light  Bread  \ 
!      Magnificent  Biscuits....     ! 

♦  • 

^  Every  package  is  guaranteed  to  give  satisfaction 

♦  : 

♦  our  ; 

I Graham  Flour! 

I  i 

♦  Is  made  from  the  same  selected  stock,  and  we  do  not   J 

♦  ♦ 

♦  hesitate  to  recommend  it  £ 

\    Burge-Thomas    ! 

|  Milling  Co.  j 

I    MANUFACTURERS  MARION,  INDIANA  ♦ 

J*. ♦«♦»♦.*.«•*■•♦•♦.♦»♦. ♦•♦•♦. ♦.♦•♦.♦♦♦•♦»♦»*•♦•♦•♦»♦ 


i 

HOME  REMEDIES 

1 

A  few  drops  of  chloroform  on  a  lump  of  loaf  sugar  will  relieve 
coughing. 

A  few  drops  of  turpentine  on  a  lump  of  loaf  sugar  will  expel 
worms. 

FOR  CROUP  fold  a  linen  cloth  double,  wring  dry  out  of  ice 
water.  Lay  on  throat  and  chest  and  cover  with  several  thicknesses 
of  warm  flannel. 

FOR  GATHERING  IN  THE  EAR  use  a  saturated  solution  of 
boric  acid  and  warm  water  of  equal  parts.  Use  a  soft  rubber 
ear  syringe.     This  cured  a  bad  case  of  three  years  standing. 

FOR  CATARRH  use  Glycothymoline  1  part  to  6  of  water.  Use 
a  nose  douche  or  spray  or  put  in  the  palm  of  the  hand  and  snuff 
it  up  the  nose.    Follow  with  Pineolium  in  an  oil  atomizer. 

A   THROAT   SPECIALIST. 

CATARRAH  CURE.  Seiler  tablets  1  dozen.  Dissolve  one  tab- 
let in  2  ounces  of  clear  soft  water  and  strain.  Spray  nose  and  throat 
from  two  to  four  times  a  day.  Follow  each  time  with  Pineolium, 
in  an  oil  atomizer.  Pineolium  may  be  bought  at  all  drug  stores  for 
$.1.00  per  bottle. 

FROM  A  THROAT  SPECIALIST. 

FOR  SORE  THROAT.  Use  equal  parts  of  listerine  and  water. 
Gargle  several  times  a  day  and  at  bed  time. 

FOR  INFLAMED  EYES  use  a  saturated  solution  of  boric  acid 
and  water  in  equal  parts..  The  water  should  be  warmed  and  used 
in  an  eye  cup.  It  may  be  used  full  strength.  Or  use  a  few  drops  of 
witch-hazel  in  a  little  warm  water;  or  a  weak  solution  of  warm  salt 
water. 

REMEDY  FOR  RHEUMATISM.  Use  equal  parts  of  pure  olive 
oil  and  wintergreen  oil.    Dose,  one-half  teaspoonful  after  each  meal. 

Bells  Papayan  Tablets  are  fine  for  indigestion.     Take  accord- 
ing to  directions. 


♦  •♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦• 

•MYERS    &    BECK: 

•  Dealers  in  High-Class  Dry  Goods,  Notions,  Carpets,  Lace  Curtains,  Ladies' 

♦ 

;  and  Children's  Wraps  and  Shoes 


♦ 

♦ 
♦ 

♦ 
♦ 

♦ 
♦ 

♦ 
♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 
♦ 


This  Is  the  Premier  Electric  Vacuum  Gleaner 

This  Cleaner  is  beyond  question  the  PEER  of  all  Electrics. 
It  is  made  to  get  the  most  dirt  in  the  least  time  with  the  least 
effort. 

It  weighs  7  pounds,  and  is  just  as  durable  as  if  it  weighed  50. 

It  is  fully  guaranteed  for  one  year. 

It  has  the  unqualified  approval  of  the  author  of  this  book. 


Prices,  Model  C $30.00 

Prices  all  attachments $?.50 

For  Sale  By  

MEYERS  &  BECK 

WARREN,  INDIANA 
•  ♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦• 


> 

♦ 

♦ 

-• 

♦ 
♦ 


♦ 
♦ 

♦ 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  219 


LINAMENT.  2  well  beaten  eggs  and  \  pint  of  pure  cider  vine- 
gar. Put  in  a  quart  self-sealing  can  and  shake  well.  Add  1  ounce 
of  camphor  and  \  pint  of  turpentine.  Shake  until  thick  and  creamy. 
Good  for  any  kind  of  inflamation. 

FRECKLE  LOTION.  5  cents  worth  of  bi-chloride  of  mercury 
dissolved  in  5  cents  worth  of  alcohol.  Add  8  ounces  of  soft  water, 
shake  well.  Put  into  a  glass  vessel.  Must  not  come  into  contact 
with  metal  or  jewelry.  Apply  gently  with  a  soft  cloth  before  re- 
tiring, being  careful  not  to  get  it  into  the  eyes  or  mouth  as  it  is 
very  poisonous.  It  should  be  tested  on  the  arm  and  if  it  smarts  the 
skin,  dilute.  Use  for  two  weeks.  It  will  also  remove  pimples  and 
blackheads. 

TO  AVOID  SUNSTROKE.  Sobriety  is  a  great  preventive.  The 
man  who  abstains  from  all  spiritous  drinks  during  excessively  hot 
weather,  is  vastly  less  liable  to  sunstroke  than  he  who  drinks  hab- 
itually. Regular  hours  for  sleep  and  meals,  and  the  avoidance  of 
all  irregularities  and  excesses  are  the  other  preventitives.  Bathing, 
washing  or  sponging  the  skin  all  over  in  the  morning  is  a  whole- 
some precaution.  Every  one  employed  out  doors,  that  can  possibly 
do  it,  should  wear  a  light,  easy-fitting,  broad  brimmed  hat. 

FOR   OBSTRUCTION   OF   THE  BOWELS   AND   APPENDICITIS. 

Kill  a  very  fat  hen  and  render  out  the  fat  as  you  would  ren- 
der, lard,  being  careful  not  to  scorch  it.  Inject  into  the  bowels  with 
a  soft  rubber  syringe.    This  is  very  healing  and  sure  to  bring  results. 

FOR  HEMORRHOIDS.  To  1  tablespoonful  of  fresh  unsalted 
butter  add  1  dozen  drops  of  turpentine.  Mix  well.  This  should 
be  warmed  and  injected  into  the  lower  bowels  with  a  small  hard 
rubber  syringe.  This  has  been  known  to  cure  the  most  aggravated 
cases. 

Harriet  Tarlton  Ware. 

COLD  CREAM 

1  ounce  bleached  beeswax ;  4  ounces  of  liquid  aboline ; 

3  ounces  of  distilled  water;  18  grains  borax. 

4  drops  oil  of  rose; 


8  THOROUGHLY  RELIABLE  8 


x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 

X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 


X 

THE  BEST  RESULTS  ARE  OBTAINED    X 

BY  USING  x 

X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 


Baker's 
Chocolate 


(Blue  Wrapper,  Yellow  Label) 


In  making  Cakes,  Pies,  Puddings,  ss 
Frosting,  Ice  Cream,  Sauces,  5 
Fudges,  Hot  and  Cold  Drinks    v 


Registered 
U.  S.  Pat.  Office 


For  more  than  132  years  this 
chocolate  has  been  the  standard 
for  purity,  delicacy  of  flavor 
and  uniform  quality. 

53  Highest  Awards  in   Europe  and  America 

The  trade-mark,  "La  Belle  Chocolatiere," 
on  every  genuine  package.  A  beautifully 
illustrated  booklet  of  new  recipes  for 
Home  Made  Candies  and  Dainty  Dishes 
sent  free.     Drop  a  Postal  to 


Walter  Baker  &  Co.  Ltd. 

stabiished  1780  DORCHESTER,  MASS. 


X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 

x 

X 


THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  221 


Put  the  bees-wax  and  aboline  in  a  small  porcelain  pan,  or  bowl, 
until  melted,  pour  in  the  borax,  (which  has  been  previously  dis- 
solved in  the  distilled  water)  stir  one  minute,  add  rose  oil  and  let 
cool.     BETTER  if  quantity  is  doubled. 

John  M.  Milford,  Marion,  Ind. 

WITCH-HAZEL  CREAM. 

Distilled  water,  3  oz. ;  Alcohol,  1  oz. ; 

Gum  tragecanth,  80  grs. ;  Boric  Acid,  30  grs ; 

Witch-hazel,  5  oz. ;  Perfume. 
Glycerine,  1  oz. ; 

Put  the  distilled  water  and  the  gum  tragecanth  into  a  large 
mouthed  pint  jar  until  the  gum  swells,  then  add  the  witch-hazel, 
shake  well,  and  let  stand  3  days.  Put  the  glycerine  and  boric  acid 
together  in  a  separate  bottle,  heat  in  warm  water  and  shake  well 
until  dissolved.  -  After  three  days  more,  put  all  ingredients  together 
and  shake  until  all  are  dissolved.  Strain  through  cheese  cloth,  add 
perfume  and  bottle. 

John  M.  Milford,  Marion,  Ind. 


. 


The  prescriptions  in  this  book  have  been  bought  and  used  by  myself  and 
family  and  have  cost  me  many  times  the  price  of  this  book. 


IN  all  receipts  in  this  book  calling  for  bak- 
ing powder   use  "  Royal."     Better  and 
finer  food  will  be  the  result,  and  you  will 
safeguard  it  against  alum. 

In  receipts  calling  for  one  teaspopnful  of 
soda  and  two  of  cream  of  tartar,  use  two 
spoonfuls  of  Royal,  and  leave  the  cream  of 
tartar  and  soda  out.  You  get  the  better  food 
and  save  much  trouble  and  guess  work. 

Look  out  for  alum  baking  powders.  Do 
not  permit  them  to  come  into  your  house 
under  any  consideration.  They  add  an  in- 
jurious substance  to  your  food,  destroying  in 
part  its  digestibility.  All  doctors  will  tell 
you  this,  and  it  is  unquestionable.  The  use 
of  alum  in  whiskey  is  absolutely  prohibited ; 
why  not  equally  protect  the  food  of  our 
women  and  children  ? 

Alum  baking  powders  may  be  known  by 
their  price.  Baking  powders  at  a  cent  an 
ounce  or  ten  or  twenty-five  cents  a  pound  are 
made  from  alum.  Avoid  them.  Use  no 
baking  powder  unless  the  label  shows  it  is 
made  from  cream  of  tartar. 


I 

THE 
KITCHEN  GARDEN 

1 

HOW  TO  MAKE  A  HOT  BED.  Make  a  box  as  long  and  wide 
as  you  wish  the  bed  to  be,  and  28  inches  deep  in  front,  and  34  inch- 
es in  the  back. 

Dig  a  hole  a  little  smaller  than  the  box,  a  foot  deep  and  set  box 
over  it,  fill  hole  and  box  2  feet  deep,  with  fresh  stable  manure, 
tramp  it  down  well,  cover  and  let  stand  two  or  three  days,  stir  it 
each  day,  then  put  in  8  inches  of  medium  rich  dirt,  cover  over  and 
let  stand  three  more  days,  or  until  it  feels  warm,  plant  the  seeds  in 
drills.  Small  seeds  should  not  be  covered  over  one-third  inch  deep. 
Lay  a  pane  of  glass  on  the  dirt  until  they  sprout,  then  raise  it  half 
an  inch.  This  method  keeps  the  dirt  from  drying  out  and  makes 
them  sprout  more  quickly.  Cover  the  top  of  the  bed  tight  with  old 
windows,  sprinkle  as  the  dirt  dries  out.  The  cover  should  be  raised 
according  to  the  temperature  of  the  bed  and  the  weather. 

OLD  CARPETS  should  be  thrown  over  the  top  on  cool  nights. 

Every  person  living  on  even  a  small  city  lot  can  have  the  lux- 
ury of  a  small  garden  with  very  little  expense  by  knowing  just  what 
to  plant  and  when  and  how  to  plant  it. 

For  a  small  garden  it  is  best  to  plant  such  vegetables  as  onions, 
radishes,  lettuce,  bunch  beans  and  peas.  It  is  cheaper  to  buy  cab- 
bage, potatoes,  sweet  potatoes  and  corn,  especially  the  latter,  which 
thrives  best  when  planted  in  large,  square  patches  which  renders  it 
less  susceptible  to  the  wind  and  heat,  and  gives  the  pollen  better 
chance  to  be  distributed. 

There  is  perhaps  more  difference  in  the  various  strains  of  sweet 
corn  than  any  other  garden  product  grown.  I  have  grown  many 
different  sorts,  trying  to  find  an  early  corn  worth  the  planting,  as 
most  early  varieties  are  of  a  dwarf  nature  and  are  not  worth  the 
growing. 

I  bought  a  prize  collection  last  year,  which  contained  one  pint 
of  Mauls  First  Early  sweet  corn  which  was  planted  the  6th  of  May 
and  we  gathered  our  first  roasting-ears  the  4th  of  July.  This  strain 
is  very  productive,  having  two  and  three  ears  to  the  stalk,  of  good 
size,  which  is  very  sweet,  rich  and  creamy  and  stays  in  an  eatable 
condition  a  long  time. 

The  second  best  early,  is  the  mammoth  White  Corey,  which  is 


224  THE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK 

1 _ .  v         . 

about  two  weeks  later  than  Mauls  First  Early,  and  has  fronLfiour 
to  six  more  rows  to  the  cob  and  has  the  same  conmiendabLe==jquali- 
ties.  This  strain  is  especially  nice  for  canning  and  drying  and  can 
be  planted  in  succession  as  late  as  June  25th.  I  have  planted  it  as 
late  as  July  3rd  and  gathered  the  last  roasting-ears  as  late  as  Oc- 
tober the  19th,  but  this  was  an  unusually  late  fall.  (This  same  strain 
of  corn  was  awarded  the  first  prize  at  the  county  fair.) 

THE  BEST  EARLY  TOMATO  is  Mauls  BONNY  BEST  EARLY 
which  is  very  early  and  as  large  as  some  of  the  later  varieties ;  it  is 
also  smooth  and  round  and  has  very  few  seeds  and  does  not  sun 
burn  or  rot  if  tied  up  and  will  bear  until  frost.  They  are  also  fine  for 
canning,  as  they  are  not  sour. 

THE  BEST  EARLY  CABBAGE  is  MAULS  FIRST  EARLY, 
which  is  very  sweet  and  tender  and  is  the  whitest  early  variety. 

THE  BEST  LATE  VARIETY  is  THE  HOUSER,  which  is  nice 
for  kraut  and  winter  use. 

THE  BEST  EARLY  CAULIFLOWER  is  HENDERSON'S 
EARLY  SNOW-BALL. 

THE  BEST  MEDIUM  EARLY  POTATO  is  THE  WHITE  SEN- 
ECA BEAUTY,  which  can  be  mashed  earlier  than  any  other  potato, 
and  is  white  and  mealy. 

THE  BEST  EARLY  PEAS  ARE  THE  AMERICAN  WONDER. 

THE  BEST  EARLY  RADISHES  are  THE  WHITE  VIENNA 
and  the  ICICLE. 

THE  BEST  LETTUCE  is  THE  GIANT  CRYSTAL  and  THE 
CALIFORNIA  WONDERFUL. 

HOW  TO  SET  OUT  TOMATO  PLANTS.  Make  a  fresh  trench 
3  inches  deep  and  lay  the  plant  in  on  its  side  (the  plants  are  best 
if  about  1  foot  long)  cover  all  but  about  3  inches  of  the  tip  end, 
press  the  dirt  down  firm  around  plant.  If  the  weather  is  very  dry 
pour  a  little  water  in  the  trench  before  laying  in  the  plant. 

Plants  set  out  in  this  manner  will  take  root  all  along  the  stalk 
and  produce  thriftier  and  more  prolific  vines,  which  will  bear  until 
frost  and  the  fruit  will  be  large  and  smooth  and  of  a  fine  flavor. 

Try  it. 

?r  rto'nfrr  .Y9rioO  etrri  TT  iftommBm  9flT  si  .  . 


TEE  IDEAL  COOK  BOOK  225 


THE  ROWS  should  be  three  and  one-half  feet  apart  and  the  plants 
set  30  inches  apart  in  the  rows,  drive  a  stake  each  side  of  the  row  (but 
not  in  the  row  as  there  is  danger  of  driving  it  through  the  root)  tie 
several  times  with  twine.  The  lower  succors  should  be  trimmed  off 
while  young. 


TO  SET  OUT  CELERY  PLANTS.  The  ground  should  be  level, 
set  them  in  two  rows  10  inches  apart  and  the  plants  8  inches  apart.  Set 
them  zig-zag  fashion,  as  they  are  more  convenient  to  hoe.  Never  allow 
the  dirt  to  cover  the  heart  of  the  plant  or  it  will  not  grow.  Two  rows 
can  be  hilled  with  the  same  amount  of  dirt  as  one,  when  set  out  in  this 
manner,  or  tile  may  be  set  over  them,  which  makes  less  work. 

CABBAGE  PLANTS  should  be  set"  18  inches  apart  in  the  row, 
and  the  rows  should  be  25  to  30  inches  apart. 

MANGO  PLANTS  should  be  set  2  feet  apart  in  single  rows  for 
the  mangoes  to  ripen  well. 

TO  SOW  GRASS  SEED,  mix  equal  parts  of  blue-grass,  timothy 
and  white-clover  seed  together.  Do  not  sow  too  thick,  it  should  be  sown 
late  in  the  fall  and  covered  with  well  rotted  manure.  I  have  sown  this 
same  mixture  the  middle  of  April,  on  clay  ground  and  the  grass  was 
tall  enough  to  cut  the  last  of  May.  This  is  sure  to  grow  and  make  a 
good  sod. 

SAGE  should  be  gathered  early  in  the  summer,  dried  and  rubbed 
through  a  wire  sieve  and  put  into  tight  cans  or  bottles  for  convenient 
use. 


♦  •♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦• 

♦  • 

♦  Gillespie    Electric    Company  • 

♦  ELECTRICAL   CONTRACTORS  ♦ 

House    Wiring,    Electrical    Supplies     and    Chandeliers,  ^ 

Electric  Toaster,  Electric  Iron,  Sewing  Machine  Motors  ^ 

•  TELEPHONE  1031  ♦ 

t  ; 

•  226  East  Fourth  Street  MARION,  INDIANA     • 

•  ♦ 
•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦*♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦•♦ 


BEVERAGES 

Page 

Blackberry     Cordial     163 

Blackberry     Wine     163 

Cherry    Wine    163 

Coffee     159 

Colonial    Mint    Cup    16  0 

Dandelion    Wine    162 

Elder    Blossom    Wine    162 

Fermented    Blackberry    Wine    163 

German     Chocolate     159 

Ginger    Punch    161 

Grape   Wine 162 

Green    Grape    Cocktail    161 

Italian    Chocolate    159 

Lemonade     « 16  0 

Nasturtium    Punch    161 

Memoranda 164-165 

Orangeade     160 

Plain    Chocolate    160 

Raisin    Wine    163 

Reception    Punch    160 

Rose    Ice    .-...161 

Shrub    of    Nectar    162 

Strawberry    Cocktail    161 

Strawberry    Water    162 

Tea     159 

Tea     Punch     160 

BISCUITS  AND  MUFFINS. 

Baking   Powder   Biscuits   85 

Corn    Muffins    88 

Dixie    Biscuits    86 

Egg    Biscuits,    No.    1    85 

Egg    Biscuits.    No.    2    85 

Graham    Biscuits    86 

Graham    Muffins    88 

Huckleberry    Muffins    88 

Laxative   Biscuits   86 

Kneaded    Biscuits    86 

Memoranda     89 

Oatmeal    Muffins   87 

Queen    of    Muffins    87 

Rice    Muffins   87 

Soda    Biscuits    .-85 

Twin  Biscuits  for  Luncheon  86 

Twin    Mountain    Muffins    87 

Whole    Wheat    Muffins    88 

BREAKFAST    AND    TEA    DISHES. 

Bacon  and  Eggs  151 

Beef    and    Rice    Croquettes    155 

Cheese    Fondue    .■ 152 

Cheese    Omelet    150 

Chicken     Croquettes     153 

Corn     Croquettes     155 

Corn    Oysters    155 

Cornmeal    Mush    148 

Croquettes    152 

Delmonico    Potatoes    156 

Eggs   a   la   Creole   150 

Eggs   a   la  Golden   Rod   150 

Eggs    in    a    Nest    149 

Eggs   in   Ramequins   151 


Page 

Fish    Croquettes    153 

Flour,   Mush   or  Minute  Pudding  ..148 

French   Fried   Bread    148 

Fried   Bread   with   Cinnamon 148 

Fried    Mush    148 

Graham   Mush   14  8 

Ham    and    Eggs    151 

Ham    Omelet    151 

Hard    Boiled    Eggs    149 

Jellied    Eggs    149 

Lobster    Croquettes    154 

Macaroni   and   Cheese   Croquettes   154 

Memoranda    157-158 

Mock    Lye    Hominy    148 

Mush   and    Oysters   fried   149 

Omelet 150 

Oyster    Omelet    150 

Poached    Eggs    149 

Ramequins    157 

Ringtum    Diddy    , 152 

Salmon    Croquettes    153 

Salmon    Timbales    154 

Scrambled    Eggs    149 

Sweet    Bread    Croquettes    154 

Veal    Croquettes    153 

Welch    Rarebit    152 

White    Sauce    155 

CANDIES. 

Butter    Scotch    197 

Candied    Grapes    200 

Cherry    Cocktails    191 

Chocolate    Creams    190 

Chocolate    Creams    with    Nuts 191 

Chocolate    Carmels,    No.    1    196 

Chocolate    Carmels,    No.    2    196 

Chocolate     Chips     196 

Chocolate     Geebo     195 

Cinnamon    Rolls    19S 

Cocoanut    Balls    191 

Cocoanut     Fudge     198 

Coney    Island    Crisp    200 

Cracker    Jack    200 

Divinity   Creams   192 

Dolly    Varden    Creams    192 

Fig    Creams    198 

Fudge,     No.     1    197 

Fudge,     No.     2    197 

French    Cream    Bars    191 

Geebo    or    Taffy    194 

Geebo     Loaf    194 

Hoar    Hound    Candy    195 

Ice    Cream    Candy    194 

Maple     Creams     193 

Maple     Delight     199 

Maple    Fudge    197 

Maple    Sugar    Candy    193 

Maple    Wax    193 

Marshmallows     192 

Memoranda     201-202 

Milk     Fondant     195 

Mint    Wafers    198 

Molasses     Taffy     195 


INDEX 


Page 

Nut     Brittle     199 

Peanut    Brittle    199 

Pineapple    Delight    199 

bS/^ Proportion   for   Fondant   190 

£2 -i ----Puffed  Rice  or  Wheat  200 

8*J-  ggft¥d    Almonds    200 

8 Kl --Soft-  Maple     Carmels     196 

^--St-idK  Candy   193 

S*'1-— Strawberry     Delight     199 

3H~~ Taffy    Kisses    195 

Ifil... .cpo-— Dip    Chocolates    191 

let 

BANNING    AND   PRESERVING. 
^""Apple    Jelly    169 

tax  3B^i^berry  Jelly  1T0 

.,  -  r  -Cider   Apple   Butter   171 

"4  Currant    Jelly    169 


8*1... 

en... 
osi... 

051.. 

et-r.. 

T3I.. 
231.. 
Scl.. 
£31.. 

en.. 

i>31.. 

831.. 

r_cl.- 

331- 


"Fruit    Canning    166 

"Grape    Jelly    170 

"Memoranda     175 

'Peach    Marmalade    172 

Peach     Preserves     173 

"Pear    Preserves    173 

'Pineapple   Marmalade   172 

"Plum    Butter    171 

"Plum    Preserves    173 

Pumpkin     Butter    170 

Quince    Honey    172 

Quince    Jelly    170 

Quince    Marmalade    172 


Quince    Preserves    172 

Raspberry    Jelly    170 

Strawberry    Jelly 170 

T6I..  Sugar    Apple    Butter    171 

00-. ...Sun-Made    Strawberry    Jam    171 

IH£.  .Sun-Made    Strawberry    Preserves    173 

To    Can    Cherries    167 

161— To    Can    Currants    169 

To    Can    Cranberries    169 

cGI..  To   Can   Goose-berries   169 

&  :l...  To   Can    Grapes . 168 

c':i..To    Can    Huckle-berries    168 

3    i.  To    Can    Peaches 168 


I9X. 

881. 


To    Can    Pears    168 

To    Can    Pineapple    167 


00£.    To    Can    Raspberries    167 


To    Can    Rhubarb    16! 

To   Sterilize   Fruit   Cans   166 

To    Can    Strawberries    167 

Wild   Plum   Butter   171 


0Q2 

£    I 

t-:i 

8ex 

TGX 
TDjIETETICS. 

LZS     Arrow    Root    Blanc    Mange    143 

<-GX     Asparagus    Toast    142 

tfir     Baby     Food     145 

c    J      Baked    Milk    139 

i  •'■'.'      Beef     Tea    138 

BP       Bran    Gruel     139 

Buttermilk    139 

Buttermilk    Pop    139 

fC       Cheese    Toast    142 

E         Chicken    Broth    140 

£         Corn    Meal    Gruel    139 

c.         Corn    Tea    138 

3         Cracked    or    Rolled    Wheat    141 

8         Cracker     Toast     142 

3         Egg     Lemonade     137 

Egg     Nogg     138 


Page 

Eggs  Poached   in   Milk  142 

Flaxseed    Lemonade    137 

Graham    Fruit    Cakes    145 

Graham     Mush     141 

Gruel    from    Rice    Flour    138 

Gum   Arabic   Water   137 

Hot    Lemonade    -"- 137 

Hot    Milk    - 140 

Huckleberry   Toast  142 

Infants'     Milk     Porridge     145 

Irish    Moss    Pudding    143 

Jelly     Water 137 

Junket    143 

Lemonade     137 

Macaroni    Soup    14  0 

Memoranda 147 

Milk  and   Egg   Toast  142 

Milk    Toast    142 

Milk    Porridge    138 

Oatmeal    Tea    137 

Oatmeal    Gruel    139 

Oatmeal    Snaps    145 

Oatmeal   with  Raisins  144 

Orangeade     138 

Orange    Whey    137 

Plain    Blanc    Mange    143 

Poached     Eggs     141 

Puree    of    Split   Peas    141 

Rice    and    Raisins    141 

Rice    Cream    144 

Rice    for    the    Sick    144 

Rice     Gruel     138 

Rice     (Japanese    Method)     144 

Rice     Omelet. 144 

Rice     Snow    , 141 

Sago     Cream     143 

Sweet   Cream  Biscuits  145 

Unleavened    Bread    144 

Whooping   Cough   Syrup   146 

FISH. 

Baked    Fish 12 

Baked   Salmon,    Trout   or   Pickerel. .13 

Black    Bass,    with    Sauce 13 

Cod   Fish,   a  La   Mode   14 

Fish      Premier,        with        Premier 

Sauce     14 

Fried    Fish    13 

Fried    Trout    13 

Fried    Eels    14 

Fried     Halibut     12 

Halibut,     Maitre    D'Hotel    12 

Lobster,   Newburg   Style   13 

Small   Fish   Baked   12 

FISH   AND   MEAT    SAUCES. 

Anchovy     Sauce     15 

Aspic    Jelly    16 

Beachamel     Sauce     15 

Cucumber   Sauce   for   Fish   15 

Drawn     Butter     Sauce     15 

Egg    Sauce    - 17 

Hollandaise    Sauce   for   Fish    16 

Horseradish     Sauce     17 

Mint    Jelly    16 

Mint    Sauce 16 

Oyster    Cocktails    16 

Tomato    Sauce    16 

Premier    Sauce 15 


IXDEX 


229 


FOWL,    GAME   AND  POT   PIES. 

Page 

Broiled   Quail   36 

Broiled    Squirrel    36 

Chicken   Pot   Pie   33 

Chicken    Pie 33 

Chicken   and   Dumplings,    No.    1 34 

Chicken  and   Dumplings,   No.    2 34 

Chicken   and   Dumplings,   No.    3 35 

Fried    Chicken    36 

Fried    Rabbit    or    Squirrel    36 

Fried   Squabs   or   Quail    36 

Jellied   Chicken 35 

Pressed   Chicken   35 

Rabbit   Pot   Pie 34 

Roast   Chicken   32 

Roast    Duck 33 

Roast   Goose   32 

Roast    Guinea 33 

Roast    Turkey 32 

Stewed    Chicken    35 

Stewed   Rabbit   or   Squirrel   36 

Stewed    Quail    36 

Stuffing    for    Turkey    32 

Veal    Pie    34 

Veal    Pot    Pie    33 

Veal    Pot    Pie    34 

Veal    Stew 34 

GRIDDLE  CAKES  AND  CORN  BREAD. 

Bread   Pan   Cakes  90 

Buckwheat    Cakes    91 

Buttermilk   Corn   Bread   92 

Corn   Fritters 91 

Cornmeal    Pan    Cakes    !".™91 

Corn   Pone 90 

Indian   Griddle    Cakes   "..'.90 

Memoranda    93 

One   Egg  Griddle   Cakes   .......".Z."...^.9Q 

Pancakes     91 

Self-Raised    Buckwheat    Cakes 91 

Southern   Hoe-Cake    92 

Tip-Top   Corn   Bread   .  99 

Waffles     90 

Whole   Wheat  Griddle   Cakes   ".""™90 

HOME    CURED   MEATS. 

Corned   Beef  19 

Fried   Pickled   Pork   .........".". 20 

Fried    Sweet-Breads    20 

Head    Cheese    ""'l9 

Hot  Salted   Pork   ..'....""".18 

Improved     Sausage     19 

Pickled    Pigs    Feet 19 

Pickled   Pork    1§ 

Pork    Tenderloins    ..........."'.. 20 

Pressed   Pigs   Feet    ...........   20 

Roast   Spare   Ribs   20 

To   Sugar   Cure   Pork   !"™"""""lg 

HOME     REMEDIES     217-222 

ICE   CREAMS  AND  ICES. 

Apricot    Ice    Cream    183 

Chocolate    Ice    Cream    183 

Chocolate    Sauce    for    Vanilla    Ice 

Cream 184 

Cherry    Water    Ice    187 


Page 

Coffee   Ice   Cream   183 

Cranberry    Ice 186 

Currant    Water    Ice    186 

Four   and   Four   1S6 

Frozen    Dark    Secrets    182 

Gelatin    Ice    Cream    182 

Grape    Ice    1S7 

Italian    Tutti    Frutti    187 

Junket    Ice    Cream    182 

Lemon    Sherbet    18  5 

Maple     Frappe     1S4 

Orange    Ice    1S4 

Orange    Sherbet    1S5 

Peach   Ice   Cream   1S2 

Pineapple     Ice    184 

Pineapple    Sherbet,    No.    1    184 

Pineapple  Sherbet,   No.   2   185 

Raspberry   Granite   187 

Red    Raspberry    Ice 185 

Strawberry    Ice    185 

Strawberry   Ice    Cream    182 

Strawberry     Granite     1S7 

Vanilla    Ice    Cream    184 

Zero    Pudding    •. 186 

LOAF   AND   LAYER   CAKES 

Angel   Food   Cake,   No.    1   105 

Angel   Food   Cake,   No.    2   106 

Apple    Sauce    Cake    112 

Banana    Cake    115 

Beginners   Loaf    Cake    114 

Brides    Cake     108 

Brown    Sugar    Cake    110 

Carmel     Icing     114 

Chocolate    Layer    Cake    109 

Coffee    Cake,    No.    1    113 

Coffee    Cake,    No.    2    113 

Cream    Cake,    No.    1    ....116 

Cream   Cake,    No.    2    116 

Dark    Part    110 

Delicate    Cake    107 

Devil's    Food     Cake    with       Sweet 

Chocolate,   No.    1   112 

Devil's  Food  Cake,  No.   2  113 

Devil's   Food   Cake,    No.    3    113 

Dutch    Applecake    112 

Fig     Cake     108 

Filling     108 

Gold    Cake    116 

Hickory  Nut  and  Walnut  Cake  ....117 

Jelly    Roll    115 

Lemon   Jelly   Cake    115 

Memoranda    118-119 

Mock    Angel    Food    109 

New    Moon    Cakes    117 

Nut    Cake    116 

Nut   Loaf  110 

Old   Time   Spice   Cake    115 

One    Egg    Cake    117 

Orange    Fruit    Cake    ..-. Ill   . 

Perfection    Cake    106 

Pork    Cake    Ill 

Premium   Cocoanut   Cake   109 

Premium     Fruit     Cake     Ill 

Premium   Marble   Cake   110 

Princess     Cake     108 

Rich    Spice    Cake    114 

Silver    Cake    116 


230 


INDEX 


Page 

Snow     Cake     110 

Sunshine    Cake    106 

Valentine     Cakes     : 117 

Vanity    Cake    108 

Washington    Loaf    Cake    114 

White    Cake    107 

White    Cake    109 

White    Fruit    Cake    Ill 

White    Jelly    Cake    108 

White    Layer    Cake,    Large 107 

MEXICAN  DISHES. 

Chop    Suey    31 

Hot    Tamale,    No.    1    31 

Hot    Tamale,    No.    2    31 

Mexican    Sauce    31 

MISCELLANEOUS  MEATS. 

Beef    Pot    Roast    20 

Beef   Loaf,    No.    1    23 

Beef   Loaf,    No.    2    23 

Beef    or    Liver    Smothered    in    On- 
ions     26 

Beef   Steak   Hash   29 

Beef    Hash    ...29 

Boiled   Ham    21 

Breaded     Chops     22 

Breaded    Veal    22 

Broiled    Steak    22 

Broiled    Flank    Steak    28 

Calf's    Brains    Breaded    27 

California    Loaf    24 

Chili    Con    Carni    26 

Chicken    Curry    27 

Chicken    A    La   King    27 

Corn     Chowder     26 

Cream    Codfish    28 

Cream    of    Dried    Beef    28 

Creamed     Salmon     28 

Escalloped    Salmon    25 

Frog     Legs     29 

Fried     Ham     23 

Green    Pea      Sauce      for      Salmon 

Loaf     24 

Liver     Hash     30 

Liver    Loaf    24 

Mother's   Beef   Steak   22 

Mutton    Pot    Roast    21 

Roast   Beef   21 

Roast    Ham    21 

Salmon    Chowder    25 

Salmon    Loaf   with   Green   Peas 24 

Smothered    Chicken    26 

Souffle   of   Mushrooms    22 

Steamed    Salmon    Loaf   25 

Swiss     Roast     28 

Timbale    of    Meat    29 

To   Fry   Bacon   23 

Veal    and   Ham   Pie    27 

Veal     Loaf     23 

Venison    Chops    22 

Victualies     30 

Wild    Ducks    27 

MISCELLANEOUS 203-216 


PASTES  AND  PIES. 

Page 

Apple     Pie     100 

Apricot     Pie    99 

Banana    Pie    96 

Butter    Scotch    Pie    99 

Butter    Scotch    Pie    96 

Chocolate    Pie    97 

Cocoanut   Pie    96 

Cranberry     Pie     98 

Custard    Pie    96 

Dried   Apple   Pie   100 

Early   Apple   Pie   99 

Fresh   Gooseberry   Pie   101 

Green    Currant    Pie    101 

Green   Tomato   Pie   99 

Huckleberry   Pie   98 

Improved   Vinegar   Pie    98 

Lemon    Pie    _ 96 

Memoranda 102-103 

Mince    Pie    ...„ —97 

Mock    Orange    Pie    100 

My   First   Cream   Pie   95 

Orange    Pie    96 

Orange   Cream  Pie   95 

Peach     Pie     101 

Pineapple    Pie    100 

Plain  Pie  Crust  94 

Puff    Paste    94 

Pumpkin    Pie    97 

Raisin    Pie    99 

Rhubarb    Pie    100 

Ripe    Currant    Pie    101 

Sweet   Cream  Pie   Crust   94 

Vinegar    Pie    98 

Whipped   Cream   Pie   95 

PICKLES,      RELISHES      AND      SAUER 
KRAUT. 

Brine    Pickles    176 

Cherry    Olives    178 

Corn    Salad    177 

Cucumber    Catsup    178 

Last    of    the    Garden    178 

Memoranda    181 

Mustard     Pickles     179 

Pickled    Sweet    Pepper    177 

Sauer    Kraut    180 

Sour    Pickles     176 

Sweet    Pickles    176 

Sweet    Relish    : : 179 

Tip-top     Pickles    176 

Tomato     Catsup     178 

PUDDINGS  AND    SAUCES. 

Admiral   Dewey  Pudding  58 

Angel   Charlotte   Russe  7  0 

Angel    Pudding    .' 66 

Apple    Snow,    No.    1    67 

Apple    Snow,    No.    2    67 

Apple    Dumplings    69 

Baked    Apples    68 

Baked     Custard     61 

Bread   and    Butter   Pudding   63 

Brown     Betty     69 

Carmel    Pudding    61 

Cherry    Puffs    64 

Chocolate   Bread   Pudding  63 

Chocolate    Tapioca   Pudding   61 


INDEX 


231 


Page 

Cocoanut     Pudding     62 

Coffee     Cream 64 

Cranberry    Jelly    6  8 

Currant    Puffs    65 

Date    Pudding,    No.    1    60 

Date    Pudding,    No.    2    60 

Fig  Pudding   59 

Float     63 

Foamy    Sauce    58 

Grape-Nut   Pudding   60 

Huckleberry    Pudding    59 

Honey-Comb   Pudding  59 

Jelly     Cream     64 

Memoranda     71 

Orange     Baskets     69 

Orange     Pudding     69 

Pear    Jelly    6  7 

Pineapple     Pudding     65 

Pineapple    Trifle    64 

Plum    Pudding    58 

Plum   Pudding   with    Chocolate    70 

Prune    Pudding    60 

Prune     Whip     6  2 

Quince    Pudding    69 

Raspberry    Shortcake    67 

Rhubarb   Pudding  63 

Rice   a  La  Creme   65 

Rice    Pudding    65 

Sauce    for   Plum    Pudding    59 

Spanish    Cream    Pudding   66 

Steamed    Apple    Dumplings    6  8 

Strawberry    Shortcake    67 

Suet   Pudding   « 58 

Surprise     Pudding     62 

Tapioca    Custard    Pudding    62 

Tapioca  and  Grape  Juice  Pudding  66 

SANDWICHES. 

Angel     Sandwiches     57 

Bacon     Sandwiches    54 

Boiled   Ham    Sandwiches   54 

Cheese    Butter   Sandwiches   56 

Cheese   and   Olive   Sandwiches   56 

Cheese   and   Pimento   Sandwiches....54 

Chicken     Sandwiches     54 

Chocolate    Sandwiches    57 

Cold    "Welsh    Rarebit    57 

Club     Sandwich     55 

Crab     Sandwich 55 

Dried   Beef   Sandwich   57 

Egg    Sandwich 56 

Lovers'     Delight     _ 57 

Mock    Crab    Sandwiches    56 

Nasturtium     Sandwiches    54 

Nut    Sandwiches    55 

P.eanut    Sandwiches    56 

Pineapple    Sandwiches    57 

Salmon     Sandwiches    55 

Sardine   Sandwiches  55 

Walnut     Sandwiches    56 

SALAD  AND    SALAD  DRESSINGS. 

A   Dainty   Salad    Dish    46 

Aspic    Salad    45 

Bean   Salad   4S 

Beet     Salad     46 

Cabbage    Salad    48 

Cauliflower    Salad    49 


Page 

Cheese    Salad    47 

Cherry    Salad    —51 

Chicken   Salad,    No.    1    45 

Chicken   Salad,    No.    2   45 

Chicken   Salad   in   Cream   47 

Cupids    Salad    50 

Currant    Conserve   48 

Dandelion     Salad     48 

Egg    Cups    52 

Fresh   Pork   or  Ham   Salad   46 

Fruit    Salad    50 

Gelatine     Relish     49 

Green    Tomato    Mince    49 

Japanese     Salad     46 

Lettuce    Salad    51 

Lobster    Salad    49 

Marshmallow   Salad   51 

Oil    Salad    Dressing    53 

Onion    Salad    46 

Perfection   Salad   52 

Pond   Lilly   Salad    51 

Potato    Salad    48 

Salad    Dressing    53 

Salmon    Salad    48 

Shrimp    Salad    46 

Shrimp    Salad    47 

Strawberry    Salad   50 

Tulip    Salad    52 

Veal    Salad    45 

Vegetable    Salad    47 

Waldorf    Salad    50 

SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS. 

Brandy    Sauce,    Cold    72 

Brandy   or   Wine   Sauce,   No.    1 72 

Brandy  or   Wine   Sauce,   No.    2 72 

Carmel   Sauce  74 

Lemon    Brandy    73 

Lemon     Sauce     74 

Lemon  Sauce  for  Apple  Dumplings   73 

Lemon    Syrup   73 

Orange   Brandy    73 

Memoranda     75-76 

Raspberry    Sauce       (for      Pudding 

and    Sponge    Cake)    73 

Rich   Wine    Sauce.    No.    2    72 

Rose    Brandy    72 

Sauce    for    Plum    Pudding    73 

Vanilla    Sauce    74 

SMALL      CAKES,      WAFERS,      DOUGH- 
NUTS AND   COOKIES. 

Angel   Drop   Cake   120 

Balloons     1  22 

Banana    Cookies    127 

Banana    Fritters    131 

Banberry     Tarts    130 

Boiled   White   Icing   133 

Brownies,     No.     1 122 

Brownies,     No.     2    122 

Cinnamon    Crisps    121 

Carmel    Filling    133 

Chocolate    Cream    Filling 133 

Chocolate    Icing    134 

Cookies,     No.     1     126 

Cookies,    No.    2    12fi 

Cornu-Copias    132 


232 


INDEX 


Page 

Cream    Fillings    132 

Cream   Fondant   Icings 134 

Cream    Puffs    130 

Crummets,    121 

Doughnuts     125 

Drop    Cakes    120 

Dropped    Cookies    127 

Drop     Doughnuts     126 

Eggless    Cookies    127 

Fig    Filling    133 

Filling  for  Cream  Puffs  .....132 

Ginger    Bread    129 

Ginger  Cookies,  No.   1  128 

Ginger  Cookies,  No.   2   128 

Ginger    Cookies,    No.    3    12S 

Ginger   Drop    Cakes    130 

Ginger    Snaps     128 

Golding    Icing    135 

Graham     Cookies     127 

Hickory    Nut    Kisses    124 

Icing    for    Decorations    134 

Kisses     124 

Lady    Fingers    121 

Lemon     Crackers     122 

Lemon    Drops    121 

Lemon     Filling     132 

Lemon    Wafers    123 

Macaroons     124 

Maple    Filling    132 

Maple     Puffs     130 

Margarites 124 

Marshmallow     Icing     134 

New    Ginger    Bread    129 

Nut     Wafers     123 

Orange    Filling    133 

Peanut     Wafers     123 

Potato     Doughnuts     125 

Rolled    Oats    Cookies    127 

Rolled    Oats    Wafers    123 

Rosette    Wafers    and    Timbales 131 

Short   Paste   for   Fruit    Tarts    131 

Snow    Balls    120 

Sour   Cream    Cookies   126 

Sour    Cream    Ginger   Bread   129 

Soft    Ginger    Bread    129 

Spanish    Drop    Cakes    120 

Sponge     Drops     120 

Tutti-Frutti     Filling     _ "133 

Tutti-Frutti     Icing     134 

Twisters     y  25 

Walnut    Wafers     123 

White    Ginger    Cookies    128 

SOUPS. 

Bean     Soup     9 

Beef     Soup     with     Noodles,       Rice 

or    Barley    6 

Bouillon      6 

Chicken    Soup    6 

Clarify   Soup    Stock,    To    5 

Consomme    of    Tapioca    10 

Cream   of   Oyster   Soup   8 

Cream   of  Celery   Soup   8 

Lentil    Soup    9 

Noodles     , 6 

Norwegian     Soup 8 

Pea    Soup    10 


Page 

Potato   Soup   with   Rivels   9 

Puree    of    Salmon    10 

Puree    of    Chestnuts    10 

Rice   and  Asparagus  Soup   10 

Scotch    Mutton    Broth    7 

Soup     Stock     5 

Spanish     Stew     7 

St.    Germain    Soup 8 

Tomato    Soup,    No.    1    9 

Tomato   Soup,    No.    2 ...9 

Turkish     Soup 7 

Turtle    Soup    11 

Veal     Soup     6 

Velvet    Potato    Soup    8 

White    Stock    5 

TABLE    OF    WEIGHTS    AND    MEAS- 
URES  104 

THE    KITCHEN    GARDEN    223-226 

VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus     • 41 

Baked     Corn 40 

Baked   Beans   with   Tomato   Sauce   38 

Boiled    Cabbage 41 

Boiled    Corn   on    the    Cob   39 

Candied    Sweet    Potatoes    37 

Candied     Parsnips     38 

Carrots     42 

Carrots    with    Peas    38 

Cauliflower     42 

Creamed    Cabbage    41 

Creamed    Peas    in    Timbales    43 

Creamed    Stewed    Corn    39 

Creamed    Tomatoes    43 

Dandelion    Greens    42 

Escalloped    Cabbage    41 

Escalloped    Corn 40 

Escalloped    Tomatoes    ....43 

Fried     Corn     40 

Fried    Egg    Plant 43 

Green    Beans    39 

Green  Peppers  Stuffed  with  Corn  ..40 

How   to   Choose   Good   Potatoes   37 

Kale     44 

Mashed     Potatoes     ! 37 

Old    Style    Parsnips    38 

Peas,     French    Style    43 

Potatoes   on    the   Half   Shell   37 

Potato    Puffs 38 

Salsify   or   Vegetable   Oysters 41 

Saratoga     Chips     38 

Stewed    Onions    42 

Stuffed   Green   Peppers   44 

Stuffed     Tomatoes     39 

Spinach     44 

Succotash     39 

Summer    Squash    43 

Sweet    Potatoes,    Southern    Style 37 

Time   for   Cooking   Beans  37 

Tomato    Jelly     43 

Turnips     42 

Yellow   Wax    Beans    39 

Young   Lima    Beans   39 


INDEX 


233 


YEAST   BREADS. 

Page 

Boston   Brown    Bread    80 

Buns     82 

Cinnamon    Rolls    82 

Cream    Bread 80 

Dry    Yeast    78 

Fruit     Rolls     S3 

Graham     Bread     80 

Memoranda     84 

Parker    House    Rolls    82 


Page 

Rye    Bread    80 

Salt   Rising   Bread 81 

Steamed   Brown  Bread 81 

Sweet    Rusks    83 

To   Start   Beer  Yeast 78 

White     Bread     from     Beer     Yeast, 

No.     1 78 

Whole    Wheat    Bread    80 

Yeast    Biscuits    81 

Yeast   Bread   for    Small    Families—.79 


JUN    24    1912 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  482  937  2    * 


