iff -^f*i*-j*"!^' 


i*ftiv--^       ■\   "--i^fe^Ms?* 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  07713  202  3 


6002.56 


Research 
Library 


oN"i£^afiLidD 


^^,%k 


AN  IDEAL  KITCHEN. 


Miss  Parloa's  Kitchen  Companion, 


A  GUIDE  FOR  ALL  IVHO  WOULD  BE 
GOOD  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

By  MARIA    PARLOA, 

FOUNDER    OF    THE    ORIGINAL    COOKING-SCHOOL    IN    BOSTON;    PRINCIPAL 
OF  THE   SCHOOL   OF   COOKERY   IN    NEW   YORK;   AND  AUTHOR    OF 

"MISS  parloa's  new  cook-book,"  "the  APPLEDORE 
cook-book,"  "  first  principles  of  household 
management,"  "camp  cookery,"  etc. 


TWENTIETH    EDITION 
ILLUSTRATED. 


BOSTON: 
ESTES    AND    LAURIAT, 


PUBLISHERS. 


Mind  your  Ps  &  ^ 

And  the  three  best  r  s  to  mind  are 
MISS 

r^ARLOA'S  Kitchen  Companion,    i  vol.,  crown 

8vo,  cloth  or  waterproof  binding,    $2.50. 

It  is  thoroughly  practical ;  it  is  perfectly  reliable ;  it  is 
marvellously  comprehensive  ;  it  is  copiously  illustrated ;  it  is 
in  short  overflowing  with  good  qualities,  and  is  just  the  book 
that  all  housekeepers  need  to  guide  them. 

MISS 

PaRLOA'S  New  Cook  Book  and  Market- 
ing  Guide.     I  vol.,  i2mo,  cloth,  $1.50. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  popular  Cook  Books  ever 
printed,  containing  1,724  receipts  and  items  of  instruction. 
'J'he  directions  are  clear  and  concise,  and  the  chapters  on 
marketing  and  kitchen  furnishing  very  useful. 

MISS 

r^ARLOA'S  Camp  Cookery.     How  to  Live  in 

a  Camp,     i  vol.,   i8mo,  cloth,  50  cents. 

A  most  comprehensive  little  manual.  Every  one*  who 
intends  camping  out  during  the  coming  summer  should 
have  it  right  at   hand  for  constant  reference. 


JFbr  sale  by  all  booksellers,  or  sent  postpaid  by 

ESTES  AND  LAURIAT,  Boston,  Mass. 


AN  IDEAL  KITCHEN: 


Miss  Parloa's  Kitchen  Companioin. 


'UC)^-' 


A  GUIDE  FOR  ALL  WHO  WOULD  BE 
GOOD  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Bv   MARIA    PARLOA, 

FOUNDER    OF    THE    ORIGINAL    COOKING-SCHOOL    IN    BOSTON  ;    PRINCIPAL 

OF   THE   SCHOOL   OF   COOKERY    IN    NEW   YORK;   AND   AUTHOR   OF 

"miss   parloa's   NEW   COOK-BOOK,"    "THE   APPLEDORE 

COOK-BOOK,"    "FIRST  PRINCIPLES  OF  HOUSEHOLD 

MANAGEMENT,"    "  CAMP   COOKERY,'    ETC." 


TWENTIETH    EDITION 
ILLUSTRATE^.    1  ^ 


BOSTON: 
ESTES    AND    LAURIAT, 

PUBLISHERS. 


Copyright,  1887, 
By  Maria   Parloa. 


c    c  c  c    "^  c  c 


c    c 


John  Wilson  and  Son,  Cambridge,  U.S  A, 


AN 


IDEAL  KITCHEN. 


How  few  people  who  build  houses  give  proper  atten- 
tion to  the  plan  and  construction  of  the  kitchen  !  Pains 
may  be  taken  to  have  the  exterior  of  the  building  attrac- 
tive, the  halls  broad,  the  parlors  spacious  and  finely  fin- 
ished, the  dining-room  bright  and  inviting,  the  chambers 
airy  and  sunny,  but  the  plan  of  the  kitchen  generally 
receives  much  less  thought  than  its  importance  deserves, 
if  one  be  seeking  to  make  the  house  as  nearly  perfect  as 
is  practicable.  The  trouble  is  not  wholly  due  to  un- 
willingness to  expend  more  money  than  may  have  been 
at  first  appropriated.  A  little  extra  thought  alone  is 
needed  to  effect  many  improvements  on  the  average 
kitchen  when  a  house  is  in  process  of  construction,  but 
this  extra  thought  usually  is  missing.  Of  course,  in 
order  to  have  a  model  kitchen,  one  must  be  willing  to 
pay  a  good  price  for  it ;  yet  the  price  will  not  be  so  high 
th?it  one  will  ever  regret  the  expenditure ;  indeed,  most 
persons  will  promptly  admit  that  the  money  has  been 
used  as  profitably  as  that  used  for  any  other  part  of 
the  house.  The  object  of  this  chapter  is  to  show  how 
a  model  kitchen  may  be  arranged;  and  although  few 
people  may  adopt  the  recommendations  as  a  whole,  it 


MISS  PARLOA'S  KITCHEN  COMPANION. 


SITTING    ROOM 


DINING    ROOM 


is  hoped  that  every  reader  may  find  some  suggestions  of 
value,  to  be  followed  whether  the  house  be  already  built 
or  yet  to  be  erected. 

The  first  matter  to  be  considered  is  the  size  of  the 
room.  While  it  is  important  to  have  ample  space  for 
range,  sink,  dresser,  tables,  and  chairs,  and  for  free  move- 


AN  IDEAL   KITCHEN. 


ments,  it  also  is  important  to  avoid  having  the  room  so 
large  as  to  oblige  one  to  take  many  steps  to  and  from 
range,  sink,  table,  and  pantry.  A  good  size  is  16  X  16 
or  15  X  17  feet. 

Be  particular  to  have  the  ventilation  as  good  as  possi- 
ble ;  for  the  comfort  of  not  only  those  who  have  duties 
in  the  kitchen,  but  of  the  entire  household,  is  in  a  meas- 
ure dependent  upon  it.  If  the  ventilation  be  poor,  the 
strength  of  those  who  work  in  the  room  will  needlessly 
become  exhausted,  and  they  are  likely  to  get  irritated 
easily.  Moreover,  odors  of  cooking  will  escape  to  other 
parts  of  the  house  instead  of  passing  to  the  open  air. 
The  room  should  be  high,  and  have  large  windows  that 
can  be  raised  or  dropped  easily.  If  the  kitchen  be 
located  in  a  one-story  extension,  almost  perfect  ventila- 
tion may  be  secured  by  means  of  a  ventilator  in  the  roof 
or  by  a  skylight;  or  it  may  be  found  easy  to  have  a 
ventilator  placed  in  the  chimney.  If  expense  be  no 
obstacle,  it  will  be  well  to  have  a  separate  chimney  for 
the  kitchen,  as  this  is  one  of  the  surest  ways  of  prevent- 
ing odors  of  food  from  reaching  other  rooms.  Although 
the  room  may  be  admirably  arranged  and  finished,  it  will 
not  be  a  model  apartment  unless  there  be  good  ventila- 
tion and  an  abundance  of  light.  Most  kitchens  have 
some  dark  corners,  but  there  should  be  none. 

Excepting  the  ceilings,  every  part  of  the  room,  as  well 
as  of  the  pantry  and  the  adjoining  closets,  should  be  fin- 
ished in  a  way  that  permits  of  washing.  A  hard-wood 
floor  is  desirable.  Avoid  spruce.  Hard  pine,  if  care- 
fully selected,  makes  a  good  floor ;  but  the  best  wood  is 
maple  or  birch,  in  strips  not  more  than  three  inches 
wide.  If  soft  wood  be  used,  splinters  will  in  time  get 
torn  up.  Oil-cloth  often  is  used  for  covering  the  floor. 
It  may  look  bright  and  clean,  but  is  too  cold,  and  fre- 
quently causes  rheumatism.  Lignum,  which  somewhat 
resembles  oil-cloth,  but  is  thicker  and  warmer,  is  as  good 
a  covering  as  can  be  found.      It  is  clean  and  durable. 


6 


MISS  PARLOA'S   KITCHEN   COMPANION. 


Tiles  are  sometimes  recommended  for  the  floor  of  a 
kitchen ;  they  can  be  kept  clean  and  will  wear  well,  but 
they  tire  the  feet,  and  for  that  reason  should  not  be 
used. 

It  is  well  to  have  the  woodwork  in  a  kitchen  oiled.  A 
wainscot  is  desirable.  Have  the  walls  painted  a  rather 
light  color.  If  one  can  afford  it,  the  walls  about  the 
range  and  sink  should  be  tiled.  At  the  outset  tiles  may 
appear  costly,  but  after  experience  one  finds  it  is  really 
a  saving  to  use  them.  They  can  easily  be  kept  perfectly 
clean,  and  will  last  as  long  as  the  house  itself.  English 
or  Dutch  tiles  should  be  used,  and  there  is  nothing  more 
appropriate  than  the  blue  and  white.  The  price  for  fur- 
nishing and  setting  such  tiles  is  from  seventy  cents  to  a 
dollar  per  square  foot.  Probably  the  time  will  come 
when  nobody  will  think  of  finishing  a  house  without 
them. 

Do  not  be  satisfied  with  a  small  sink.  Have  one  of 
good  size,  and  of  iron,  with  a  sloping  and  grooved  shelf 
at  one  end,  on  which  to  drain  dishes  after  washing  them. 
Let  the  sink  rest  on  iron  legs.  The  space  under  it  should 
not  be  enclosed,  as  every  dark  place  is  a  source  of  temp- 
tation to  a  slovenly  domestic. 

One  caution  in  regard  to  the  sink :  have  the  strainer 
screwed  down  firm.  Anything  that  will  not  pass  through 
the  strainer  should  not  go  into  the  pipes.  The  hinged  or 
loose  strainer  gives  but  little  protection,  as  the  temp- 
tation to  lift  it  and  let  sediment  pass  through  is  very 
great.  With  an  immovable  strainer  and  the  use,  once 
a  fortnight,  of  the  hot  solution  of  soda  described  in  the 
chapter  on  "  Care  of  Utensils,"  there  will  be  no  trouble 
with  pipes,  unless  it  be  caused  by  wear  or  freezing. 
After  using  the  hot  soda,  flush  the  pipes  with  cold 
water.  This  plan  has  been  followed  in  the  care  of  the 
plumbing  of  a  large  house  for  many  years,  with  the 
most  satisfactory  results.  Put  hooks  under  the  sink,  for 
dish-cloths,  dish-pans,  etc.     Unless  there  be  tiles  above, 


AN  IDEAL  KITCHEN. 


.  TO  HALL 

ANO 

MAIN  PART  or  house: 


below,  and  at  the  sides  of  the  sink,  all  this  space  should 
be  finished  in  hard  wood.  If  tiles  be  used,  have  a  broad 
capping  of  hard  wood  extend  across  the  upper  edge  of 
the  top  row,  in  which  to  place  brass  hooks  for  the  various 
small  utensils  in  frequent  use  at  the  sink. 


8  MISS   PARLOA'S   KITCHEN   COMPANION. 

Between  the  doors  leading  to  the  china  closet  and  the 
hall  have  a  dresser.  Here  can  be  kept  the  kitchen  table- 
ware and  some  utensils.  Near  the  back  part  of  each 
shelf  have  a  groove,  so  that  plates  and  platters  may  be 
placed  on  edge  without  danger  of  their  falling.  There 
also  should  be  two  drawers,  and  below  the  drawers  two 
closets  containing  shelves.  The  doors  of  the  upper  part 
of  the  dresser  should  be  made  in  part  of  glass,  and  in- 
stead of  swinging  on  hinges  they  should  slide  one  in 
front  of  the  other. 

Allow  enough  room  for  the  tables,  so  as  to  avoid 
crowding  and  confusion  when  a  meal  is  being  prepared 
or  served.  Swinging  tables  are  convenient,  as  they  oc- 
cupy no  space  when  not  in  use.  At  one  end  of  the  sink 
have  a  table,  about  2^  X  3-|  feet,  containing  one  drawer 
for  knives,  forks,  and  spoons,  and  one  for  towels.  This 
table  should  be  placed  on  castors,  so  that  it  can  easily 
be  moved  to  the  centre  of  the  room.  There  should  be 
a  small  table,  about  the  height  of  the  range,  for  use  as  a 
resting-place  for  utensils  when  omelets,  waffles,  griddle- 
cakes,  etc.,  are  made.  Its  top  should  be  covered  witk 
zinc.  When  not  in  use  this  table  may  be  moved  to  some 
other  part  of  the  room.  There  should  be  one  more  table 
in  the  kitchen,  between  two  windows  if  the  space  will 
permit,  —  a  settle  table,  which  serves  as  a  seat  when 
not  in  use  for  ironing  or  some  other  purpose.  Above 
the  table  have  two  shelves,  —  one  for  a  clock,  and  the 
other  for  cook-books,  the  grocer's  and  marketman's  order- 
books,  etc.  It  is  a  good  idea  to  have  the  corners  of  all 
the  tables  rounded,  so  that  nobody  shall  be  hurt  by 
striking  against  them. 

Have  broad  window-seats,  in  order  to  keep  a  few  pots 
of  flowers,  herbs,  or  other  plants  in  the  room.  Flowers 
brighten  a  kitchen  wonderfully,  and  seem  to  grow^  better 
there  than  in  any  other  part  of  the  house.  One  other 
point  about  the  windows;  they  should  be  supplied  with 
wire  screens  in  cummer.      Swarms  of  flies  will  get  in 


AN  IDEAL  KITCHEN. 


1 


10 


MISS  PARLOA'S  KITCHEN  COMPANION. 


unless  this  precaution  be  taken.     The  same  barrier  is 
needed  at  the  outside  door  as  much  as  at  the  windows. 

The  most  important  piece  of  furniture  is  the  range. 
Many  housekeepers  find  it  difficult  to  decide  which  is 
better,  a  set  or  a  portable  range.  Each, has  merits.  Less 
room  is  required  for  set  ranges;  broiling  and  roasting 
can  be  done  before  the  fire,  and  a  constant  supply  of 
liot  water  is  insured.  But  set  ranges  are  rather  slow  to 
respond  to  draughts  and  checks ;   they  consume  a  great 


-  K'l'tcJ?'e^Viei' 


deal  of  coal ;  the  hearth  becomes  hot,  and  uncomfortable 
to  stand  on ;  and  there  is  but  one  side  of  the  range  to 
approach,  which  necessitates  the  frequent  lifting  and 
moving  of  heavy  utensils. 

Now,  a  portable  range  can  be  so  placed  as  to  permit 
of  one's  walking  almost  around  it ;  it  can  be  used  as 
advantageously  as  a  set  range,  with  about  half  the  same 
quantity  of  coal;  there  is  a  prompt  response  to  the 
opening  or  closing  of  a  draught ;  one's  feet  do  not  get 
heated  by  standing  near  it ;  there  are  no  dark  corners ; 
the  need  of  moving  utensils  is  to  a  large  extent  avoided, 
and  it  can  be  so  managed  that  there  shall  be  a  hot  oven 
at  any  time  of  the  day.     But  roasting  must  be  done  in 


AN    IDEAL   KITCHEN.  11 

tlie  oven,  and  broiling  over  the  coals,  and  the  supply  of 
hot  water  is  limited. 

With  a  set  range  there  must  be  a  broad  hearth  of  tiles, 
slate,  or  best  face-brick.  If  a  portable  range  be  used, 
only  a  large  piece  of  zinc  will  be  required  under  it. 

THE   PANTRY. 

And  now  the  pantry.  It  should  be  about  12  x  8  feet. 
The  window  should  have  a  wire  screen,  and  inside  fold- 
ing blinds  will  be  found  a  great  convenience,  —  indeed, 
they  are  a  necessity.  A  large,  strong  table,  containing 
two  drawers,  should  be  placed  at  this  window.  There 
should  be  hooks  at  the  ends  of  the  table,  from  which  to 
suspend  the  pastry-board,  the  board  on  which  cold  meats 
are  cut,  and  that  on  which  bread  and  cake  are  cut.  In. 
one  drawer  the  rolling-pin,  knives,  pastry  and  cake 
cutters,  and  a  few  other  utensils  may  be  kept ;  and  in  the 
other  drawer,  spices,  flavoring  extracts,  etc. 

At  one  end  of  the  room  the  wall  should  be  covered 
with  hooks  on  which  to  hang  saucepans.  At  the  same 
end,  about  a  foot  from  the  floor,  there  should  be  a  broad 
shelf  on  which  to  keep  heavy  pots  and  kettles,  turned 
upside  down  to  keep  out  dust.  Two  feet  above  this 
shelf  there  should  be  a  narrow  one  for  the  covers  of  the 
utensils  just  mentioned.  By  following  this  plan  one 
can  keep  all  these  articles  together  and  always  in  sight, 
and  no  time  need  be  lost  in  searching  for  any  of  them. 

There  will  be  space  in  this  end  of  the  room  for  small 
shelves  for  the  glass  jars  in  which  to  keep  materials 
used  frequently,  such  as  tapioca,  barley,  rice,  baking- 
powder,  soda,  cream-of-tartar,  ginger,  split  peas,  etc. 
Here,  also,  may  be  kept  small  pasteboard  boxes  contain- 
ing herbs. 

In  the  window-frame  put  brass  hooks,  on  which  to 
hang  the  egg-beater,  spoons,  graded  measuring-cups,  a 
whisk,  etc. 


12 


MISS  PARLOA'S   KITCHEN  COMPANION. 


At  the  lower  end  of  the  pantry  have  a  strong  rack, 
a  few  inches  from  the  floor,  on  w^hich  to  place  flour- 
barrels.  This  plan  insures  the  circulation  of  air  under 
the  barrels,  keeping  their  contents  sweet.  About  a  foot 
above  the  barrels  have  a  wall  closet,  with  shelves  about 
twenty  inches  wide.  This  should  be  supplied  with  a 
lock,  as  it  is  designed  for  keeping  cooked  food  and  such 


rtouR    *"  li. 
Barrel    o  ° 

ON  HACK.      '"    5 
FROM  rtOORy  t 

<ro 

a:  CD 

TLOUR      1^3 
BARRETl  O" 

ON    PACK.  tD 

^r£w  incmcSq  H 
rROM  FLOOR|_  Q 


PANTRY 


TIER  or  Shelves. 


„  HOOK 
""      FOR 

Towel 


KITCHEN 


groceries  as  raisins,  currants,  and  citron,  in  glass  jars, 
besides  fresh  fruit.  The  door  or  doors  should  be  made 
partly  of  wire. 

Extending  the  length  of  one  side  of  the  room  have  a 
tier  of  shelves,  beginning  about  a  foot  from  the  floor  and 
running  as  high  as  the  top  of  the  wall  closet.  Tin  cans 
of  meal  and  sugar,  stone  jars  of  salt,  and  jugs  of  molas- 
ses and  vinegar  may  be  kept  on  the  lower  shelves  ;  and 
mixing-bowls,  mixing-pans,  stone-china  measuring-cups, 
etc.,  —  indeed,  all  utensils  for  which  no  other  place  has 
been  provided,  —  may  be  kept  on  the  upper  shelves. 


AN  IDEAL   KITCHEN.  13 

lu  some  place  near  the  door  of  the  pantry  have  a  hook 
or  a  roller  for  a  towel,  in  order  to  avoid  taking  steps 
across  the  kitchen  whenever  the  hands  require  wiping. 

Now,  if  a  kitchen  and  pantry  be  built  or  reconstructed 
on  this  plan,  the  cooking  can  be  done  with  comfort,  and 
the  washing  of  dishes  will  not  seem  so  burdensome  as 
it  does  in  the  ordinary  kitchen.  Even  if  one  find  it 
impracticable  to  follow  all  or  many  of  the  suggestions 
made,  pains  ought  to  be  taken  —  whatever  the  plan  of  the 
kitchen  be — to  concentrate  the  work,  obtain  good  light, 
good  ventilation,  and  ample  table-room ;  and  all  meas- 
ures which  are  calculated  to  insure  cleanliness  and  to 
make  the  kitchen  an  attractive  place  should  be  adopted. 
There  must  be  a  closet  near  by  for  brooms,  brushes, 
dusters,  etc. ;  and  there  should  be  a  cold  room  near  the 
kitchen,  in  which  to  keep  most  of  the  perishable  stores. 
In  case  there  be  no  room  of  this  kind,  it  will  be  well  to 
keep  the  refrigerator  in  the  pantry. 

THE   STOREROOM. 

A  storeroom  well  arranged  and  properly  managed  is 
a  source  of  economy,  security,  and  comfort  to  a  house- 
keeper. It  should  be  kept  locked  except  when  stores 
are  being  put  in  or  taken  out.  Light  should  be  fur- 
nished by  a  small  window.  For  a  household  of  moderate 
size  a  room  7x5  feet  will  suffice.  In  the  ground-plan 
given  on  page  10  no  provision  is  made  for  such  a  room 
on  the  first  floor,  but  there  would  be  space  for  one  if  the 
china  closet  were  made  smaller  and  there  were  no  closets 
in  the  back  hall. 

Broad  shelves  should  run  all  roand  the  room,  and 
there  should  be  a  movable  set  of  broad,  firm  steps  —  say 
two  or  three  steps  —  for  use  in  reaching  the  upper 
shelves.  The  floor  and  shelves  should  be  planed  smooth, 
that  there  may  be  no  grooves  nor  defective  places  where 
any  substance  which  may  be  spilled  will  lodge,  giving 


14  MISS  PARLOA'S  KITCHEN  COMPANION. 

a  disagreeable  odor  to  the  room.  The  shelves  must  be 
made  strong,  so  that  no  danger  shall  arise  from  putting 
a  great  weight  of  stores  on  them.  A  tier  of  three  shelves 
will  be  enough.  Have  a  space  of  about  twenty  inches 
between  the  shelves.  Do  not  have  any  of  the  woodwork 
painted.  The  walls  may  be  plastered  or  sheathed.  If 
plastered,  they  may  be  whitened  each  spring,  if  neces- 
sary. This  will  freshen  and  sweeten  the  room.  The 
shelves  and  floor  may  be  cleaned  once  a  mouth,  and  the 
other  woodwork  w^ashed  twice  a  year.  Care  must  be 
taken  not  to  use  much  water.  The  room  should  be  kept 
dry,  as  well  as  clean,  cool,  and  dark. 

Use  the  lower  shelves  for  such  supplies  as  are  fre- 
quently drawn  upon,  and  the  upper  ones  for  those  stores 
which  are  used  the  least.  On  the  upper  shelves  there 
may  also  be  kept  such  kitchen  utensils  as  may  be  re- 
quired to  replace  those  which  become  worthless, — such 
as  bowls  and  cups,  saucepans,  etc.,  which  a  wise  house- 
keeper will  always  keep  in  reserve. 

If  flour  be  kept  in  a  barrel  in  the  storeroom,  there 
should  be  a  strong  rack,  a  few  inches  from  the  floor  (as 
recommended  for  the  pantry),  on  which  to  place  the 
barrel ;  the  idea  being  to  get  a  free  circulation  of  air 
under  the  barrel  and  prevent  dampness.  Such  grocer- 
ies as  molasses,  granulated  sugar,  vinegar,  wine,  cider, 
washing-soda,  etc.,  may  be  kept  on  the  floor.  A  strip 
of  wood  into  which  are  screwed  half  a  dozen  or  more 
hooks,  may  be  fastened  on  one  side  of  the  room,  and 
on  it  can  be  hung  the  brushes,  brooms,  etc.,  required  to 
replace  those  which  become  worn  out. 

Following  is  a  list  of  supplies  which  should  be  kept 
in  the  storeroom.  In  sections  of  the  country  where  such 
articles  as  shrimp  and  lobster  can  always  be  found  fresh 
it  will  not  be  necessary  to  use  canned  goods.  Again,  in 
those  places  where  fish  and  oysters  are  never  found 
fresh,  it  is  well,  on  account  of  the  saving  in  cost, 
to  buy  them  by  the  quantity,  as  one  would  buy  canned 


■i 


AN  IDEAL  KITCHEN.  15 

peas,  tomatoes,  mushrooms,  etc.  In  some  parts  of  the 
country  the  people  depend  almost  wholly  upon  condensed 
milk  rather  than  upon  the  fresh  fluid.  If  canned  milk 
must  be  used,  a  considerable  saving  can  be  made  by  buy- 
ing a  large  quantity  at  one  time.  Then,  too,  if  one  be  so 
placed  that  it  would  not  be  possible  to  obtain  an  extra 
quantity  of  milk  in  an  emergency,  it  will  be  well  to  keep 
a  few  cans  of  condensed  milk  on  hand. 

Time  and  money  will  be  saved  by  purchasing  by  the 
dozen  such  canned  goods  as  peas,  tomatoes,  mushrooms, 
peaches,  apricots,  as  well  as  gelatine,  etc.  Soap  and 
Sapolio,  candles  and  starch,  all  should  be  bought  by  the 
box.  It  is  well  to  have  peas  of  two  qualities,  —  the 
small  French  peas  for  use  as  a  vegetable,  and  the  larger 
and  cheaper  kind  for  making  soups  and  purees.  Truffles, 
caviare,  sardines,  anchovies  in  various  forms,  and  a  few 
other  things,  are  luxuries  in  which  many  housekeepers 
never  indulge ;  and  in  any  case  a  small  can  or  bottle 
is  all  that  one  will  require  in  a  storeroom,  provided  one 
lives  in  or  near  a  large  city  where  such  articles  can  be 
obtained. 

In  the  list  of  supplies  which  follows  these  remarks 
are  mentioned  many  things  not  actually  essential,  but 
which  are  very  useful  in  giving  variety  to  the  fare.  It 
may  surprise  some  readers  that  dried  or  smoked  fish, 
ham,  bacon,  salt  pork,  brown  soap,  and  some  other  arti- 
cles are  not  included  in  the  list.  The  reason  is,  that 
they  have  moisture  or  a  strong  odor,  two  things  to  be 
avoided  in  a  storeroom  where  delicate  groceries  are  kept. 
A  cold  room  where  there  is  a  free  circulation  of  air  is 
a  better  place  for  them. 

Experience  has  proved  that  tin  boxes  are  the  best 
receptacles  for  all  kinds  of  food  that  would  attract  mice 
or  weevils.  Tin  boxes  are,  to  be  sure,  much  more  expen- 
sive than  wooden  buckets ;  but  as  they  are  lasting  and 
perfectly  secure,  it  is,  in  the  end,  economical  to  buy 
them.      Each  box  should  be  labelled;   and  if  they  be 


MISS  PARLOA'S  KITCHEN  COMPANION. 


made  to  order,  it  will  be  well  to  have  the  labels  painted 
on  them  at  the  time.  Such  boxes  as  cracker-manufac- 
turers use  will  answer  for  this  purpose,  and  a  house- 
keeper may  obtain  them  through  her  grocer  if  no  more 
convenient  way  presents  itself.  When  made  to  order, 
tin  boxes  are  expensive. 

First  Shelf.  —  Graham,  corn  meal,  both  white  and  yel- 
low, oatmeal,  rye  meal,  hominy,  buckwheat,  rice,  soda, 
cream-of-tartar,  tapioca,  powdered  and  block  sugar,  dried 
peas,  beans,  barley,  picked  raisins,  currants  that  have 
been  cleaned,  eggs,  cheese,  gelatine,  tea,  coffee,  chocolate, 
starch,  bluing,  candles;  all  the  articles,  except  the  last 
three  and  the  gelatine,  to  be  kept  in  tin  boxes. 

Second  Shelf.  —  Olive  oil,  vanilla,  lemon,  orange,  and 
almond  extracts,  Santa  Cruz  rum,  eau-de-vie  de  Dantzic, 
maraschino,  brandy,  white  wine,  tarragon  vinegar,  olives, 
capers,  liquid  rennet,  table  salt,  macaroni,  spaghetti, 
vermicelli,  crackers,  lime-water,  stove-polish,  Sapolio, 
Castile  soap,  toilet  soap,  chloride  of  lime. 

Preserved  ginger,  pickles,  anchovy  paste,  chutney 
sauce,  extract  of  meat  in  small  jars,  arrowroot,  corn- 
starch, potted  ham,  tongue,  and  chicken,  French  paste 
for  coloring  soups  and  sauces,  devilled  ham,  anchovies 
in  oil  and  in  salt,  Kussian  caviare,  sardines,  orange  mar- 
malade, jellies,  canned  and  preserved  fruits,  almonds, 
citron,  candied  lemon  and  orange  peel,  tomato,  walnut, 
and  mushroom  ketchup,  essence  of  anchovy,  curry-pow- 
der, white  and  red  pepper,  essence  of  shrimp,  Worcester- 
shire or  Leicestershire  sauce,  and  these  whole  spices,  — 
nutmegs,  cloves,  cinnamon,  mace,  allspice,  pepper-corns, 
and  ginger ;  these  ground  spices,  — mace,  cinnamon,  clove, 
allspice,  ginger ;  these  whole  herbs,  —  sage,  savory,  thyme, 
parsley,  sweet-marjoram,  summer  savory,  tarragon ;  these 
ground  herbs,  —  sage,  summer  savory,  thyme,  parsley, 
sweet-marjoram. 

Third  Shelf.  —  These  canned  vegetables,  —  button 
onions,   cauliflower,   peas,  string  beans,   shelled  beans. 


AN  IDEAL   KITCHEN.  17 

mixed  vegetables,  tomatoes,  and  corn  ;  also,  canned 
cepes,  mushrooms,  truffles,  salmon,  lobster,  shrimp, 
chicken  and  tongue,  and  dessert  biscuit,  prunes,  twine, 
chamois  skin,  whiting,  household  ammonia,  clothes-pins. 
Floor,  —  Molasses,  cider,  vinegar,  granulated  sugar, 
wine,  coarse  salt  for  freezing,  washing-soda  for  the 
plumbing. 

THE   COLD   STOREROOM. 

This  room  should  be  on  the  north  side  of  the  house, 
and  should  have  two  small  windows,  on  two  sides  of  the 
room,  if  possible.  A  broad  beam  should  extend  across 
one  end  of  the  room,  at  least  one  foot  from  the  wall. 
Strong  meat-hooks  should  be  fastened  in  this  beam,  on 
which  to  hang  ham,  bacon,  smoked  tongue,  smoked  sal- 
mon, and  fresh  meat  or  poultry  that  is  to  be  kept  a  day 
or  more.  At  the  other  end  of  the  room  there  should  be 
broad,  strong  shelves  on  which  to  put  the  tubs  or  jars  in 
which  pork,  lard,  pickles,  etc.,  are  kept.  All  the  things 
which  should  be  kept  very  cold,  such  as  fruits,  vegeta- 
bles, preserv^es,  etc.,  may  be  stored  in  this  room. 

If  one  have  a  good  light  cellar,  the  cold  storeroom 
may  be  arranged  there.  The  entrance  should  be  near 
the  kitchen  stairs.  In  most  modern  cellars  the  furnace 
gives  so  much  heat  that  a  separate  place  is  required  for 
storage  purposes.  If  one  be  about  to  build  a  house,  it 
will  be  well  to  take  this  matter  under  consideration. 
Have  a  separate  cellar  under  the  kitchen,  and  keep  it 
for  vegetables  and  a  storeroom.  In  the  larger  cellar 
have  the  furnace,  fuel-bins,  and  a  workshop,  if  one  be 
needed.  If  the  cellar  extend  the  entire  length  of  the 
house,  a  cold  room  may  be  made  by  building  a  brick 
partition  at  the  end  of  the  cellar  farthest  from  the 
furnace.  The  room,  whether  on  the  ground  floor  or 
downstairs,  should  be  so  arranged  that  it  can  be  made 
light  when  necessary.  The  windows  should  have  inside 
blinds. 


18  MISS  PARLOA'S   KITCHEN  COMPANION. 

In  most  households  the  cellar  will  be  found  to  be  the 
most  desirable  place  for  a  cold  room,  because  the  temper- 
ature will  be  more  even  than  in  a  place  above  ground. 
Dry  atmosphere,  light,  and  ventilation  are  the  special 
points  to  keep  in  mind.  Even  in  an  old  house,  where 
the  light  is  insufficient,  large  windows  may  be  put  in, 
and  the  trouble  thus  easily  remedied.  Perfect  cleanli- 
ness and  frequent  airing  are  necessary  for  the  preserva- 
tion of  food  in  this  room. 

Of  course,  it  is  desirable  to  have  the  room  divided  into 
two  parts,  — a  thin  partition  will  suffice,  — that  the  milk 
and  butter  in  one  compartment  shall  not  absorb  the 
flavor  of  meats,  fish,  fruits,  or  vegetables  kept  in  the 
other.  If  there  be  no  refrigerator  in  the  pantry,  have 
one  in  this  room.  Ice  will  not  melt  so  quickly  here  as 
in  other  parts  of  the  house. 

A  writer  who  has  given  considerable  thought  to  the 
subject  of  ventilation  says  that  ^'  a  great  mistake  is  some- 
times made  in  ventilating  cellars  and  milk-houses.  The 
object  of  ventilation  is  to  keep  the  cellars  cool  and  dry, 
but  this  object  often  fails  of  being  accomplished  by  a 
common  mistake,  and  instead  the  cellar  is  made  both 
warm  and  damp.  A  cool  place  should  never  be  venti- 
lated unless  the  air  admitted  is  cooler  than  the  air 
within,  or  is  at  least  as  cool  as  that,  or  only  a  very  little 
warmer.  The  warmer  the  air  the  more  moisture  it  holds 
in  suspension.  Necessarily,  the  cooler  the  air  the  more 
this  moisture  is  condensed  and  precipitated.  When  a 
cool  cellar  is  aired  on  a  warm  day,  the  entering  air  being 
in  motion  appears  cool ;  but  as  it  fills  the  cellar  the  cooler 
air  with  which  it  becomes  mixed  chills  it,  the  moisture 
is  condensed,  and  dew  is  deposited  on  the  cold  walls,  and 
may  often  be  seen  running  down  them  in  streams.  Then 
the  cellar  is  damp,  and  soon  becomes  mouldy.  To  avoid 
this,  the  windows  should  only  be  opened  at  night,  and 
late,  —  the  last  thing  before  retiring.  There  is  no  need 
to  fear  that  the  night  air  is  unhealthful  j  it  is  as  pure 


AN  IDEAL   KITCHEN.  19 


as  the  air  of  midday,  and  is  really  drier.  The  cool  air 
enters  the  apartment  during  the  night  and  circulates 
through  it.  The  windows  should  be  closed  before  sun- 
rise in  the  morning,  and  kept  closed  and  shaded  through 
the  day.  If  the  air  of  the  cellar  be  damp,  it  may  be  thor- 
oughly dried  by  placing  in  it  a  peck  of  fresh  lime  in  an 
open  box.  A  peck  of  lime  will  absorb  about  seven 
pounds,  or  more  than  three  quarts,  of  water ;  and  in  this 
way  a  cellar  or  milkroom  may  soon  be  dried,  even  in  the 
hottest  weather." 

THE    CHINA    CLOSET. 

Between  the  kitchen  and  dining-room  there  should 
be  a  closet  where  the  dining-room  dishes  (except  rare 
glass  and  china)  can  be  kept,  and  where  the  glassware, 
silver,  and  delicate  china  —  if  not  all  the  china  —  can  be 
washed.  A  window  is  needed  in  this  room.  Have  the 
floor  made  of  hard  wood,  unless  it  is  to  be  covered.  If 
covered,  use  lignum.  A  woollen  carpet  never  should  be 
laid  in  a  china  closet.  The  walls  may  be  sheathed,  or 
plastered  and  painted.  Everything  considered,  sheathing 
with  Avell-finished  hard  wood  is  the  best  plan. 

On  one  side  of  the  room  have  closets  about  three  feet 
high,  beginning  at  the  floor.  Above  the  closets  have 
broad  shelves.  These  should  have  deep  grooves,  so  that 
meat  dishes  may  be  placed  on  edge  and  inclined  against 
the  wall.  On  the  opposite  side  of  the  room  have  a  sim- 
ilar tier  of  shelves,  with  drawers,  instead  of  closets, 
under  the  lowest.  If  the  room  be  planned  like  that  in 
the  design  given,  there  will  be  space  between  the  two 
tiers  of  shelves  already  mentioned  for  still  another  tier, 
although  it  will  be  better  to  save  this  space  for  the  steps 
needed  for  reaching  the  high  shelves.  These  steps 
should  be  broad,  as  a  precaution  against  accidents  to 
anybody  and  damage  to  dishes. 

The  shelves  should  be  made  of  smooth  hard  wood, 
which  is  easily  kept  clean.     It  adds  considerably  to  the 


20 


MISS  PARLOA'S  KITCHEN  COMPANION. 


AN  IDEAL   KITCHEN.  21 

cost  of  the  room,  but  also  considerably  to  the  conven- 
ience, to  have  sliding  glass  doors  in  front  of  the  shelves. 
They  will  exclude  a  great  deal  of  the  dust  which  other- 
wise would  collect. 

At  one  end  of  the  room,  near  the  window,  have  a  sink 
for  washing  dishes,  —  not  such  a  sink  as  that  in  the 
kitchen,  but  a  rather  small  basin,  say  of  copper,  about 
eighteen  inches  long,  twelve  wide,  and  eight  or  nine 
deep.  Copper  is  especially  recommended  because  it 
wears  better  than  zinc.  A  soapstone  sink  or  a  porcelain- 
lined  pan  would  be  desirable  but  for  the  greater  liability 
of  breaking  dishes.  It  is  a  good  idea  to  have  a  small 
cedar  tub — they  are  made  with  brass  hoops,  and  look 
very  neat  —  for  the  washing  of  the  most  delicate  china 
and  glassware,  which  is  likely  to  get  marred  or  broken 
if  crowded  into  a  pan  with  other  heavier  articles. 

On  each  side  of  the  sink  have  a  swinging  table,  on 
which  to  place  dishes.  The  tables  will  at  times  be 
convenient  when  making  salads  and  other  similar 
dishes.  Above  the  table  nearest  the  kitchen  have  a 
slide  in  the  wall,- that  dishes  may  be  passed  to  and  from 
the  kitchen.  This  small  space  will  not  admit  odors  or 
the  hot  air  as  the  door  would  if  kept  open.  In  case 
there  be  two  or  more  servants  in  the  household,  the 
door  from  the  closet  to  the  kitchen  need  not  be  opened 
at  all  while  a  meal  is  served,  all  dishes  being  passed 
through  the  slide. 

The  small  closets  in  the  room  are  for  the  sugar,  tea, 
Condiments,  and  the  cake,  bread,  and  cracker  boxes. 
There  should  be  one  small  closet  for  the  articles  used 
in  cleaning  the  table-ware,  such  as  soap,  whiting,  alco- 
hol, ammonia,  brushes,  chamois  skin,  etc.  The  drawers 
under  the  shelves  are  intended  for  the  table  linen,  clean 
dish-towels,  etc. 

A  towel-rack  that  can  be  fastened  to  the  window- 
casing  is  a  necessity.     In  case  the  walls  be  plastered  or 


22 


MISS  PARLOA'S  KITCHEN  COMPANION. 


tiled,  a  broad  moulding  of  wood  should  be  placed  just 
above  the  sink.  Brass  hooks  screwed  into  this  moulding 
will  prove  to  be  a  great  convenience. 

This  room  is  often  called  the  butler's  pantry. 


Miss  Parloa  s 
Cook  Books 

Can  be  procured  from  any 
bookseller  in  the  United 


States. 
Her    name    in    connection 
with  cooking  is  a  house- 
hold word. 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  shuuld  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  thi< 
pocket. 


