Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


! 


VWWMBR-^'*''' 


I 


THE 


ILLUSTRATED  LONDON 

COOKERY  BOOK, 

COXTAIKi:rG  rVWABDS  ov 

FIFTKEN     HUNDRKD     FIRST-RATE     RECEIPTS 

SELECTED  WITH  GREAT  CARE,  AND  A  PROPER  ATTENTION  TO  ECONOVT  ; 

AND     EMBODYING    ALL    THE     LATEST    IMPROVEMENTS    IN    THE    OULINART    ART  : 

ACCOMPANIED   BT   IMPORTANT   REMARKS   AND    COUNSEL   ON   THE 

ARRANGEMENT  AND   WELL-ORDERING  OF  THE  KITCHEN, 

COSCBimtD  WITH 

USEFUL  HINTS  ON  DOMESTIC    ECONOMY. 

THE  WHOLE  BASED  ON  MANY   YEARS*  CONSTANT  PRACTICE  AND  EXPERIENCE; 

AND  ADDBBSSXD  TO  W 

yriodtt  /nmilirs  as  toeli  ns  Vft  ^tffiui  CircUi 

BY 


FREDERICK  ..BLSHGB,- :-.::: 

*Z  I        ••  ••  rjt*   •  •  • 

LiTK  cuisnrncB  to  st.  jamss's  falacx.  xabi;  ofiA*  cH«>ifiatQTris*OT  raivobi). 

(OKBUKY.  CAPT|yr  pV960VBS,  AlfD«*« 

rAsuLus  ur  TsiCMi:ret>9Jt^      '  « 

:    './X- 


BABOX  BOrnsCHILO.  SAXL  2(0BBUBY.  CAPT|yr  pV960VBS,  AlfD«*« 
XAXT  OP  THB  FIBBt  - — "^ •— *  ' 


*--   •-•       —      •    *    -   * 


PROFUSELY   ILLUSTRATED  WITH   ENGRAVINGS  ON  WOOD. 


I 


LONDON:  227,  STRAND. 


MDCOCLII. 


LOKMUI  :  i.  HAOOOM  nUNTCR,  CA8TLS  ftTKIKT,  PncSBITRT. 


.•  • 


•  -;  •••  •    • 

•  •    «  •  • 
•  •  r     •    •• 

•  •  •     •     • 

•  •    ••• 


•   • 


•  ••  •  » 

•  •    •  • 

•  •••  • 

•  •    •• 

•  •  •  •••  » 


•  •  " 

•  •    • 


*  •    •  • 


•  •  •»  w 


PREFACE. 


The  present  Collection  of  Receipts  has  been  selected  and 

arranged  with  much  care  and  a  well-directed  attention 
to  economy ;  they  are  the  results  of  a  long  experience, 
and  will  be  found,  on  inspection,  to  contain  nearly,  if 
not  all,  that  can  be  esteemed  essential  for  the  production 
alike  of  a  simply  or  a  most  elaborately  furnished  table. 
It  has  been  argued,  and  •  jip(> -ifitiiout  «oInQ!:ceason, 
that  not  only  is  the  work  of  a  'pl^<}fe&9e4  cuismier  above 

the  comprehension  of  a  less  exp^rr^d^e^crok*  l{ut  that 

•    ;:"•  !**  •*•  *•**•  \c 
the  receipts  he  furnishes  will  be*fqitf4:t<)0*«pensive  for 

private  families.     When  this  occurs,  it  is  the  fault  of 

the  author,  who,  being  only  accustomed  to  dress  dinners 

for  the  highest  circles,  forgets  that  the  tables  of  the 

middle  classes  may  be  furnished  more  handsomely  than 

in  their  daily  routine,  and  yet  as  inexpensively. 

a  2 


IV  PBEFACE. 


It  has  been  the  object  of  the  compiler  of  The 
Illustbatbd  London  Cookery  Book  to  avoid  this 
error,  and  to  give  to  the  public  receipts,  which  shall 
enable  them  to  place  excellent  and  even  high-class 
dishes  upon  their  table,  without  putting  them  to  a 
great  amount  of  expenditure. 

It  will  be  sometimes  found  in  the  body  of  the  work, 
that  there  are  several  receipts  for  the  production  of 
one  result ;  wherever  this  is  the  case,  each  receipt 
presents  some  feature  to  make  the  change  in  flavour 
perceptible,  and  yet,  in  efiect,  equally  palatable.  Tastes 
without  being  felse  vary  greatly, — so  should  made 
dishes,  to  meet  the  difficulty. 

Nearly  one  hundred  and  fifty  Bills  of  Fare  have  been 
appended  to  this  collection,  and,  for  reasons  which,  if 
not  sufficiently  obvious  at  a  first  glance,  may  in  a  few 
words  be  made  apparent,  so  that  their  presence  may 
be  properly  appreciated, 

Iii*^ge*$8tabUs}iipents.it  is  the  duty  of  the  cook  to 

present  iii.  thH  ^flfofning;'  to  the  lady  of  the  household 
••    '••••i  I'll 

the  bill  of*  fc»4,'*.TO«;rc  he  has  drawn  up  for  the  day's 
dinner  ;V^K*^i7f^  fit  J  Substituting  such  dishes  as  she 
may  prefer.  Of  course  the  cook  attends  to  the  order, 
and  the  dinner  is  served  as  desired;  but  in  small 
families  the  entire  selection  of  the  dinner  rests  with  the 
lady  of  the  household,  and  whether  it  be  for  her  own 
home  circle,  or  for  the  entertainment  of  a  few  friends. 


PBBFACE. 


the  perplexing  question  constantly  arises,  *'  What  shall 
we  have  for  dinner?*'  A  reference  to  the  appended 
Bills  of  Fare,  which  are  prepared,  with  one  or  two 
exceptions,  that  do  not  require  to  be  illustrated,  for 
every  month  in  the  year,  will  easily  enable  the  lady 
to  select  her  dinner,  while  the  body  of  the  work  will 
teach  the  cook  how  to  dress  it.  The  Bills  of  Fare 
will  be  found  most  profuse  for  the  Summer  months, 
because,  at  that  period,  nature  favours  us  with  a  much 
more  extensive  supply  of  esculents.  Each  will  be  foimd 
to  present  an  elegant  and  recherche  variety,  and  their 
arrangement  has  been  formed  with  the  view  of  pro- 
ducing in  combination  an  assimilation  of  digestible 
foods.  They  may  be  varied  at  taste,  and  can  be 
extended  so  as  to  dine  from  two  to  two  hundred 
persons. 

The  illustrations  are  numerous  and  useful ;  the 
engravings  of  kitchen  utensils  will  be  found  of  great 
service  to  a  lady  in  furnishing  this  department.  She 
will  be  enabled  at  once  to  know  what  will  be  required, 
and  to  order  of  her  ironmonger  accordingly.  The 
inexperienced  cook  will  necessarily  prove  them  to  be 
advantageous  to  her,  for  she  not  only  has  pictoriaJly 
presented  to  her  the  instruments  for  the  accomplishment 
of  her  art,  but  the  uses  and  purposes  to  which  each 
article  is  to  be  applied  explained  in  a  lucid  manner. 
The  other  illustrations  will  tell  their  own  tale. 


Vl  PREFACE. 


A  copious  indeit  has  been  annexed,  arranged  so  as  to 
&cilitate  reference  to  any  receipt  that  may  be  required. 
It  i??ill  be  seen  that  the  number  of  the  page,  and  not 
that  of  the  receipt  is  given;  this  has  been  done  to 
avoid  confusion  in  overburdening  the  memory,  and  will 
be  found  to  obviate  diflRculty  in  the  finding  of  a 
particular  dish  when  needed. 

Wherever  improvements,  additions,  or  judicious  alter- 
ations are  found  necessary  in  The  Illustrated  Lokdok 
CooEERT  Book,  they  will  be  attended  to  in  subsequent 
editionSi  but  it  is  believed  that  nothing  has  been 
omitted  which  can  be  of  service  or  importance  to  the 
purposes  which  a  Cookery  Book  is  intended  to  answer. 


CONTENTS. 


p«g«. 

Prumikabt  Remarks ix. 

Tn  Phelosopht  of  Cookery 1 

CHAP.  L    On  Carvinq 16 

To  Choose  Meats,  Poultbt,  Qahe,  Fish,  and  Shell  Fish. 
Abtigxes  roB  the  Table  in  Season  each  Month         80 — 84 
IL    Meat  Soups,  Soufs  of  Poultrt,  Qaice,  and  Fish  Soups, 

VBaxTABLB  Soups 85—61 

in    Meats.    Beef 62 

RoABT  Meats.    Boilino.    BsoiLiNa  .  .     68, 64 

IV.    Veal 84 

V.    Mutton  •       .       .       .       , 97 

VL    Lamb 107 

Yn.    PoBK,  Baoon,  etc 118 

VIIL    POULTBT 128 

IX.    Game,  etc. 142 

X.    Salt  and  Fresh  Wateb  Fish 152 

XL    Sauces 189 

XIL    Veoetables,  Salads,  etc. 209 

XnL    Potted  Meats 280 

XIV.    Paste,  Meat  Pies,  Fish  Pies,  Puddinos,  Tabts,  Tabtletb, 

Puffs,  Dumpunos,  etc 287 

XV.    Pancakes  and  Fritters 278 

XVL    EoGs  AND  Omelets 282 

XYIL    Butter,  Cheese,  etc.  288 

XYIIL    Custards,  Creams,  Ices,  Jelues,  Marmalades,  etc.  .        .  801 


viii  CONTENTS. 

P«ge. 
CHAP.  XIX.    CoNFBcnoNABY,  Preserved  Fruits,  eto 824 

XX.    Pickles 349 

XXL    Cakes,  Buns,  Biscuits,  Bread,  etc.  ......  358 

XXU.    CoBTEE,  Tea,  Chocolate,  and  Cocoa    ....      372 

XXIIL    Home-made  WiKES 378 

XXIV.    Liqueurs,  Beverages,  etc 386 

XXV.    Brewing 393 

XX VI.    Miscellaneous  Receipts 401 

Bills  OF  Fare  411 

Teqb  Rotal  Kitchen,  at  Windsor  Castle 434 

MiBOXLLANXOUs.    A  Funny  Half  Hour  for  Cooks         ....  435 


•       • 


•        • 


PREFATORY  REMARKS. 


The  necessity  as  well  as  the  propriety  of  well  regulated 
domestic  arrangements^   cannot  for  one  moment  be  ques- 
tioned ;  every  income  has  its  limit ;  the  enormous  rent-roll  of 
some  of  our  wealthiest  nobles  has  proved  unequal  to  their 
expenditure^  while  the  limited  means  of  others  has  not  pre- 
vented them  presenting  a  respectable  appearance^  without 
incurring  a  single  debt  they  could  not  meet  when  called  upon 
to  pay.    From  whence  spring  these  opposite  results?    The 
answer  is  obvious^  reckless  extravagance  on  the  one  hand> 
and  a  well-organized  system  of  domestic  economy  on  the 
other.   Which  is  the  most  commendable^  productive  of  happi- 
ness, and  beneficial  to  the  interest  of  others,  requires  no 
reply. 

The  possession  of  a  moderate  income  has  at  times  been 
found  inadequate  to  supply  the  wants  of  its  possessor, 
difficulty  and  want  have  succeeded  comparative  affluence,  a 
miserable  beggary  followed  the  descending  steps.  This 
wretched  state  of  things  is  not  always  the  result  of  a  want  of 
principle  in  limiting  the  wants  to  the  means  to  meet  them, 
but  of  actual  ignorance  in  the  judicious  management  of  a 
household,  the  mistress  of  which  is  fearfully  to  blame,  if  she 
suffers  her  domestic  expenses  to  exceed  her  husband's 
income;  it  is  her  duty  to  know  its  extent  as  nearly  as 
possible  and  provide  accordingly. 

Unfortunately,  although  much  has  been  said  and  written 
on  the  subject,  domestic  economy  does  not  form  one  branch 
of  the  education  of  a  young  lady;  she  learns,  of  course^ 
French,  Germaoj  Italian,  MusiCi  Dancing,  Drawings  takes 


PREFATORY   REMARKS. 


CaUsthenic  exercises,  &c. — accomplishments,  with  one  or  two 
exceptions,  of  which  she  rarely  takes  advantage  after  her 
marriage;  but  to  become  a  mistress  of  domestic  economy,  so 
that  she  may  prove  a  valuable  wife,  and  a  serviceable  mother, 
is  never  entertained.  That  an  object  so  essential  to  the  best 
interests  of  those  who,  whatever  their  present  station,  cannot 
foresee  with  any  certainty  what  duties  thoy  may  be  called 
upon  to  fulfil,  should  not  be  permitted  lo  occupy  an  important 
place  in  the  list  of  necessary  female  acquirements,  is  as  extra- 
ordinary as  it  is  reprehensible. 

The  possession  of  rank  or  wealth,  not  liable  to  vicissitude 
or  change,  may  supersede  the  necessity  of  nn  intimate  know- 
ledge of  domestic  economy,  such  as  would  be  required  by  a 
lady,  who,  knowing  that  her  husband's  income  will  not  admit 
of  extravagance,  keeps  the  household  expenses  within  its 
limit:  yet  even  rank  and  wealth  are  not  exempt  from  the 
bitter  change  consequent  upon  ruinous  losses,  overwhelming 
debts,  &c,  and  in  their  strait  severely  feel  the  ignorance 
that  prevents  them  knowing  how  and  where  to  curtail  their 
expenses  with  advantage  to  their  narrowed  circiunstanoes. 
Surely  there  can  be  no  degradation  for  a  lady  to  know  liow^ 
in  an  emergency,  to  supply  the  place  of  her  cook,  should  any 
unforeseen  accident  cause  her  absence;  there  must  be  an 
advantage  too  even  should  such  an  event  not  arise,  for  the  lady 
to  know  how  a  dinner  should  be  cooked  and  served  up«  Were 
it  simply  a  question  of  degradation,  abundant  instances  could 
be  furnished  of  some  of  the  noblest  and  highest  in  the  most 
civilized  countries  in  Europe,  both  in  ancient  and  modem 
times,  taking  a  delight  in  cultivating  a  knowledge  of  the 
noble  art  of  Cookery ;  the  point,  however,  is  too  absurd  to 
reason  on,  it  does  not  admit  of  argument. 

Thus  prompted,  we  trust  by  laudable  motives,  we  address 
ourself  to  the  young  housekeeper.  We  assume  the  gueties 
and  festivities  of  her  marriage  are  over,  the  honeymoon  passed, 
the  wedding  visits  paid,  and  she  is  left  in  comparative  quiet 
to  look  around  her  in  her  new  home;  she  desires  to  enter 
earnestly  and  seriously  upon  the  new  duties,  which  in  her 
new  position  she  has  tmdertaken,  and  which  by  a  solemn 
pledge  she  is  bound  to  fulfil  to  the  best  of  her  ability. 


PREFATORY  REMARKS.  XI 

Her  first  and  imperatiye  duty  is  to  make  herself  acquainted 
with  the  extent  of  her  husband's  income,  its  resources  and  its 
limits,  and  to  resolve  with  firmness  to  regulate  her  household 
with  such  prudent  and  proper  economy  as  not  to  exceed  it. 

From  this  resolution,  as  she  hopes  for  the  maintenance  and 
continuance  of  a  happy  home,  tmshaken  by  creditors,  un« 
threatened  by  poverty,  let  no  consideration,  no  ridiculous 
pride,  no  assumption  of  a  position  beyond  her  means,  suffer 
her  to  depart ;  her  future  welfare,  and  that  of  her  husband  and 
children,  depend  in  a  great  measure  upon  her  perseverance  in 
this  determination.  This  being  done,  she  should  next  see  to 
the  state  of  her  household,  its  aspect,  and  its  resources. 

The  furniture  with  which  a  house  is  adorned  is  a  matter  of 
taste  and  means ;  on  this  point  it  is  not  our  province  to  speak, 
we  would  merely  suggest,  that  comfort  be  first  considered, 
ornament  afterwards,  and  that  whatever  article  in  this  branch 
of  household  necessaries  be  purchased,  let  it  be  rather  done 
with  respect  to  its  goodness  and  usefulness  than  its  cheap- 
ness. 

However  unromantic  it  may  be,  it  is  a  certain  fact,  that  the 
happineds  of  life  is  not  a  little  dependent  upon  the  stomach; 
so  tile  professors  of  medicine  teach  us.  As  all  our  ailments, 
save  fractured  Hmbs  and  wounds  from  instruments,  proceed 
firom  a  disordered  stomach,  so  very  much  of  our  domestic 
comfort  proceeds  from  the  arrangement  and  regularity  of  the 
daily  meal.  This  is  a  point  strongly  to  be  considered.  The 
appetite  is  dependent  upon  the  health,  the  health  upon  the 
proper  and  regular  supply  of  food,  which  should  be  as  much 
varied  as  possible.  Nothing  so  soon  palls  the  appetite  as 
sameness  of  diet,  nor  so  immediately  ix\jures  the  health,  for 
by  being  palled  the  appetite  declines  and  the  body  suffers. 
Without  health  there  is  little  comfort,  without  comfort  no 
real  happiness.  Thus  eating  and  drinking,  under  a  proper 
control,  should  be  our  first  consideration,  and  being  one  of  the 
essentials  requisite  for  health  and  happiness,  so  it  becomes  the 
young  housekeeper  to  look  to  the  appointments  of  her  kitchen. 

**  What  to  cook,  how  to  cook,  and  when  to  cook  it,"  will 
first  present  itself  to  her,  and  then,  ^'  the  appliances  to  boot,** 
the  wherewithal  to  do  it  with. 


xii  PREFATORY  REMARKS. 

A  kitchen  should  always  be  well  fumiahed;  there  is  no 
necessity  that  it  should  be  profusely  so,  but  there  should  be  a 
sufficiency  of  every  thing  which  can  aid  in  producing  the 
dishes  preparing,  with  the  suceess  which  is  so  essential  to  tlie 
gratification  of  the  palate.  A  good  workman  cannot  work 
well  with  bad  tools,  neither  can  good  cooks  do  justice  to  their 
proficiency,  if  they  possess  not  the  necessary  utensils  suitable 
to  the  various  modes  of  cooking.  And  when  this  important 
point  has  been  realized,  cleanliness  in  every  article  tised  should 
be  scrupulously  observed;  no  utensil  should  be  suffered  to  be 
put  away  dirty,  it  not  only  injures  the  article  itself  materially, 
to  say  nothing  of  the  impropriety  of  the  habit,  but  prevents 
its  readiness  for  use  on  any  sudden  occasion.  No  good  cook 
or  servant  would  be  guilty  of  such  an  act ;  those  who  are,  do 
so  either  from  laziness  or  want  of  system,  or  a  nature 
naturally  dirty ;  if  a  very  strong  hint  will  not  suffice,  it  is  of 
little  use  speaking  out,  for  it  would  be  the  result  of  a  bad 
habit,  that  no  talking  in  the  world  would  cure.  A  servant 
who  is  inherently  dirty  or  slovenly,  should  never  be  retained, 
it  is  better  and  easier  to  change  frequently  imtll  the  mistress 
is  suited,  however  unpleasant  frequent  changes  may  prove, 
than  Quizotlcally  attempt  to  cure  a  person  of  this  description. 
Cleanliness  is  the  most  essential  ingredient  in  the  art  of 
cooking,  and  at  any  personal  sacrifice  should  be  maintained  in 
the  kitchen. 

The  fixtures  or  fittings  of  a  kitchen  depend  upon  the 
builder,  and  in  modern  houses  sufficient  attention  is  paid  to 
the  situations  of  the  range,  dresser,  larder,  &c.  to  embody 
convenience.  We  have  therefore,  no  Intention  of  expounding 
new  theories  or  Utopian  schemes  for  reducing  the  arrange- 
ment of  a  gigantic  kitchen  for  a  club  to  a  small  one  for  a 
household;  the  Ironmonger,  If  one  who  has  an  extensive 
business,  will  readily  give  all  the  necessary  Information 
required,  to  substitute  improvements  for  old  fixtures  found  to 
be  inconvenient ;  and  as  space  is  valuable,  we  will  not  enter 
into  a  description  which  we  cannot  but  feel  would  be 
superfluous.  We  however,  give  engravings  of  several 
varieties  of  stoves,  each  presenting  separate  merits,  and  we 
leave  to  those  who  consult  our  oracle  to  select  the  one  which 
best  sidts  their  kitchen  and  their  circumstances. 


PBBFATORT  BEMABKS. 


••• 
XIU 


No.  1.— Wafer  Tongg. 


No.  2.— Hot  Water  Dish. 


No.  8.— Mortar.     No.  4.-Pestl«. 


In  furnishing  a  kitchen  there  should  be  everything  likely  to 
be  required,  but  not  one  article  more  than  is  wanted,  un- 
necessary profusion  creates  a  litter;  a  deficiency  too  often 
sacrifices  the  perfection  of  a  dish,  there  should  be  a  sufficiency 
and  no  more.  The  following  articles,  of  which  we  have  given 
engravings,  are  requisite :  we  are  indebted  for  nearly  all  the 
drawings  to  the  courtesy  of  Messrs.  Benham,  ironmongers, 
Wigmore  Street,  Cavendish  Square. 

1.  Wafer  Tongs.  The  thin,  crisp 
cakes,  called  wafer  cakes,  usu- 
ally eaten  with  ices,  are  made 
with  this  instrum^  The  paste 
is  rolled  very  thin,  and'  placed 
between-  the  flat  plates  of  the 
tongs,  which  have  been  pre- 
viously heated  on  the  hot  plate 
or  range  hob.  They  are  pressed 
tightly  in  this  for  a  few  minutes, 
and  when  taken  out  are  tho- 
roughly baked,  and  bear  the 
impress  of  the  pattern  of  the 
tongs. 

2.  Hot  Water  Dish  with  double 
bottom,  to  be  filled  with  hot 
water  for  serving  up  joints 
which  are  liable  to  be  quickly 
chilled. 

3.  Mortar,  Made  in  iron,  brass, 
earthenware^  marble,  &c. 

4.  Pestle,  Made  of  the  same  ma- 
terial as  mortar,  or,  which  is 
better  than  either,  of  lignum 
vits^.  Used  for  pounding  sugar, 
spices,  and  other  ingredients  of 
the  culinary  art. 

5.  Wood  Block,  or  Standi  for  ditto. 

6.  Baking  Plate,  A  loose  tray, 
made  to  fit  the  oven,  to  contain 
small  pastry,  &c,  which  may 
require  careful  removal. 

7.  Water  Filter.  For  purifying 
cistern  water  for  the  table. 

8.  Wire  Dish  Cover^  to  protect  meat, 
pastry,  &c.,  from  Hies  and  dust 

No.  8.-Diih  Cow.  i»  the  larder. 


No.  5. —Wood  Block,  or  SUnd. 


No.  6.— Baking  Plate. 


No.  7.— Water  FUter. 


rBBFATOBT  BEHABKS. 


Ns.  >.— Ocnbus'i  PiMat  FimiLb( 


No.  IP— Tin  Culrtn. 


,  Benhaia'i  PaUnt  Frtvdng  Ma- 
chine,  by  wMcb  cr«aiUi  fte.  oan 
be  frozen  fit  for  the  table  in  five 
minutes,  with  the  grcBtost  eue 
and  certainty.  Wine  can  iIbo 
be  iced  by  the  maohine. 


Ka.  II.-CoITh  Culi'-T. 


10.  Tin  CanitUn  or  Boxu,  for  the 

11.  storeroom,  to  contun  tttt,  oofiee, 

12.  sugar,  biacuita,  t\(s%  te.     The 

13.  covers   fit  very _  tightly,  to  ex- 

clude the  air.  They  are  fre- 
quently lettered  to  front  to  dis- 
tiDguisb  them. 


0.  IS.— BiMBlI  CisMr, 


14.  Ice  Mould.  Ice  creams  or  water 
ices,  af^er  being  firoien  in  the 
machine,  No.  8,  or  otherwise, 
are  ehaped  in  thif  mould  to  go 
to  table. 

15.  AutomaUm  Coffea  Booiter,  for 
roiL-itiag  coffee  in  Bmall  quanti- 
ties, and  with  prMite  accuracy. 
It  revolvoi  by  otooktrork,  and 
is  placed  bcnnv  an  ordinary 
parlour  fire. 


Ho.  l«,~PoUto  SUIT 


PREFATOBT  BZlUBKa.  ZV 

16.  Bntdwin  and  Co.'s  Potato  SUamar 
and  Cover,  for  cooking  potatoes 
without  water.  The  advantages 
derived  by  this  method  of  dress- 
ing potatoes  above  the  usual 
one  of  boiling,  steaming,  or 
roasting,  are  viK,— the  extract- 
ing of  the  mter  and  fixed  air, 
leaving  the  potato  a  wholesome 
and  nutritious  vegettble.  The 
potatoes  must  be  pUofd  unpeel- 
ed  into  the  inner  ojlinder,  the 
covet  being  fixed  on  closely, 
a^er  which  it  must  be  put  on  a 
moderate  Are,  and  in  forty-five 
minutes,  without  the  least  at- 
tention, they  will  be  fit  for  use. 

17.  Saucepan  Digester. 

18.  Baldivin  and  Co.'i  Digester.  The 
-v.  ,!..—„, ,.«.  great  importance  of  this  valu- 
able  utensil,  the  digester,  not 

only  to  poor  families,  but  to  the  public  in  general,  in  producing  a 
larger  quantity  of  wholesome  and  nourishing  food,  by  n  much 
cheaper  method  than  has  ever  been  hitherto  obtained,  is  a  matter 
of  such  seriouB  and  interesting  considerationi  U  oonnot  bo  too 
earnestly  recommended  to  those  who  make  eoooomy  In  the  support 
of  their  families  an  object  of  their  attention.  The  chief,  and 
indeed  the  only  thing  necessary  to  be  done,  is  to  direct  a  proper 
mode  of  using  it  to  most  advantage  j  and  this  mode  is  botli  simple 
and  easy.  Care  must  be  token  in  filUog  the  digester,  to  leave 
room  enough  for  the  steam  to  pass  off  through  the  valve  at  the  top 
of  the  cover.  This  may  be  done  by  filling  the  dlseiter  only  three 
parts  full  of  water  and  bruised  bones  or  meftt,  wnich  It  is  to  be 
noticed  are  all  to  be  put  in  together.  It  must  then  be  placed  near 
a  alow  fire,  so  as  only  to  simmer  (more  heat  Injures  the  quality), 
and  this  it  must  do  for  the  space  of  eight  or  ten  hours.  After 
this  has  been  done,  the  soup  is  to  be  strained  through  a  hair 
sieve  or  cullender,  in  order  to  separate  any  bits  of  bones.  The 
soup  is  then  to  be  put  into  the  digester  again,  and  after  whatever 
vegetables,  spices,  &o.,  are  thought  necessary  are  added,  the  whole 
is  to  he  well  boiled  together  for  an  hour  or  two,  and  it  will  be 
then  fit  for  immediate  use.  In  putting  on  the  lid  of  the  digester, 
take  care  that  a  mark,  thus  (X)  on  the  lid,  is  (q^poilte  to  a  similar 
one  on  the  digester.  The  digester  may  also  be  obtained  to  contain 
from  fonr  quarts  to  ten  gallons.  There  are  also  saucepan  and 
stewpan  digesters,  to  hold  fVom  one  to  eight  qiurts. 


PEEPATOBT  BGUAKKS. 


Ns.  II).— ISMwpiin  Dlgi  iti 


19.  Stmupan  Digntrr. 


20.  lee  Safe,  or  Eefriyerator.  A 
double  bodied  chest  for  pre- 
Berviag  and  cooling  wine,  fruit, 
vegetables,  meat,  pastry,  &c., 
indoors  in  hot  weather. 


21.  Fith  SeitBon,  for  cutting   and 
trimming  fiab. 


22.  Fire  Htetepan,  made  with  eloM 
fitting  cover,  on  the  top  of 
which  lighted  charcoal  is  plac- 
ed, to  heat  the  contents  m^e 
thoronghly  and  uniformly. 


23.  Slockpot  and  Stockpot  Ladle,  UKd 
for  preparing  the  meat,  bones, 
vegetables,  tec.,  technically  call- 
ed Btock,  which  forme  the  baus 
of  soups. 


24.  Chee*e  ToatUr  with  double  bot- 
tom for  hot  water. 


FKEFATOBT  BEUABE6. 


S5.  Turbot  KtUU,  for  bdling  turbot 
or  other  large  fiah. 


Fith  KeUle,  for  smaller  fish,  and 
Slice,  for  lifting  them. 


^m 


Batting  LadU,  And  ' 


Dripping  Pan,  used  to  receivo 
the  unctuous  droppiags  from  the 
roasting  meat,  and  to  re-appljr 
them  to  its  Bcorching  Barf&:e. 


Pmerving  Pan,  for  makiiig  jams, 
jellies,  mannkUdes,  he. 


30.  Sauegpan,  vitk  loou  Eartktm 
Lining,  for  boiling  milk,  cus- 
tards, &c.,  without  burning. 


31.  Saucepan,  ni't/i  Lip,  for  melted 
batter,  gravy,  fire. 


5»  ai.  wm»riH  viik  Lip. 


PKEFATOET   HEMARKB. 


82.  Sugar  Saucepan,  for  melting  and 
pouring  out  angar  for  ornuua- 
Ul  conf ectionftty. 


83.  Warming,  or  Uulting  Pot,  for 
wine  or  beer. 


Ko.lt>'-WumUi|i  tt  IfclUni  Pot- 


Ho.  U.-11*U1    Btninv. 


S4.  Metal  StndMr,  for  gnd  or 
gravy. 

36.  Steuspan,  diflbring  from  a  sance- 
pan  in  having  straight  sides,  a 
flat  cover,  and  flat  handles,  on 
irbich  accoQQt  it  la  mora  oon* 
veoient  for  many  purposes. 


n*.  ic—ka  P«eii«. 


S6.  Egg  PoaeJier,  with  a  looM  ItuUe 
frame,  and  Udltt  to  liold  ^ 


87.  Wine  CooUr,  'with  dirlilou  ftr 
bottles  or  decanten,  lod  intcr- 
Btices  for  to*. 


KhSr-— WImCm«v. 


Ko  38.— Spniig  Waur  Ekp 


Ms.  St.— Tnuliil  Kctdli. 


Ms.U— LinUaiPliL 


He.4I.-BM(Park. 


38.  Spring  Water  Eaer,  nifk  long 
narrow  dcok  and  lip  for  pouring, 
and  Woad  Ice  TiA,  to  contain  it 


39.  Truuing    Keidlt,   for   tniaang 
poultry. 

40.  Larding  Pin,  made  with   split 

ends,  like  a  cleft  stick,  to  re- 
ceive strips  of  fat  bacon,  which 
are  grafted  by  its  means  ia  the 
surface  of  turkeys,  poultry,  he. 

41.  £««fFcrA:,  for  lifting  large  j<^ts 
in  the  pot  or  saucepan. 


PBEFATOET  BBHAKK8. 


Nt-U—DMlDg-npFtrk. 


Hs.  «.-Uiaeiiig  Koife. 


it  Mntton  SitmT. 


Ho.  U.— Fritter  Ilanld. 


Xs.  v.— Fnagta  Qwk-i  KnUI, 


Mo.  IS.— Fooltij  Choppar. 


.— Uubtd  PsUtD  I 


Mo.  51.— B«cf  8t«k  Tongi. 


I*.  (&— Yarkililni  PnddlDg  Pm. 


No,  Mt— Tutlit  Fu. 


42  Disking-up  Fork,  for  lifling  email 
joiats,  vegetable^  &c. 

43.  Mincing  Knife,  for  chopping  up 
meat,  suet,  tmd  "imnce>ineat.'* 

44.  Sttrfdto   o/  MiiUon   8h»tr,  for 

holding  this  joint  oa  the  spit 
for  roaating. 

45.  Fritter  MouUt  and  "^  " 

46.  Mushroom  Moidd,  nied  for  shap- 

ing fritter  and  mushroom  cakes, 
being  heat«d  for  iht  poTpoie  on 
the  hot  plate  ornngo  hob. 

47.  French  Coek't  Knijt,  much  pr» 

ferred  b7  awn  cooks,  especially 
to  the  short,  round  bladed  knife, 
for  cooking  purpoMg.    .     . 

48.  Poulinj  Clwpptr,  a  strong  de- 

Bcription  of  knife,  thick  and 
heavy,  for  br«iUog  bones,  &c. 

49.  Slicing   or  Lardinff  Knife,    for 

preparing  the  slips  of  fat  alluded 
to  at  No.  40. 

50.  Mashed  Potato  Fork,  for  beating 

up  mashed  potato— mncb  supe- 
rior to  the  vooden  Ipooii  for  this 
purpose. 

51.  Beef  Steak  Tongi,  foP  handling 

steaks,  &c.,  during  the  grilling 
process- 
es. Boiling  Pot,  for  the  reception  of 

large  joints,  puddings,  &c. 

£3.  Yorkshin  Padding  Pan. 


54.  TartUt  Pan,  for  baking  tartlets, 


55.  Omelet  Pan,  a  shallow 'filing 
pan,  with  sbelving  sides,  for 
omelets. 


rSBrATOBT  BEUABKS. 


No.  <t.— MMt  lermi. 


66.  CutUt  Pan,  a  deep  frTiiig  pu, 
with  apright  siiea,  for  cutlets. 


57-  Frying  Pan,  requires  no  ex[^- 
nation. 


58.  Bain  Marie  Pan,  a  shallow  pan 
with  fake  boLtom  to  contain  hot 
water,  in  which  soups,  ragofits, 
he.,  ore  placed  when  readjr  for 
the  table,  and  kept  at  a  boiling 
heat,  but  prevented  from'  burn- 
ing or  drying  op. 


S9.  JtUy  Bag,  made  of  felt  or  flan- 
nel, for  Btraining  jellies,  purees, 
fcc. 


Seatoning  Box,  with  dinsions  for 
salt,  pepper,  or  spices. 


61.  Btvalving  Oridirtm,  with  fluted 
bars,  lined  with  enamel. 


Afcat  Screen,  made  of  wood  lined 
with  polished  tin,  and  provided 
with  racic-shelves  for  dishes  and 
platesi  sliding  doors  at  the  back, 
and  a  lock-up  hot  closet  at  the 
top.  It  is  frequently  fitted  also 
with  hinged  flaps,  or  "wings," 
at  the  sides,  to  enclose  the  fire 
completely. 


'  PBBFATORT  BBUABKB. 


braler,  vertical  bars,  Ac,  and  in  addition  to  them,  a  very  excellent 
oven  for  meat,  f»stry,  or  bread  heated  from  the  Bame  fire.  This  is 
a  most  useful  and  economical  form  of  range  ;  and  the  consumption 
of  fuel,  ne  are  told,  U  Burprisingl;  gntal],  averaging  only  thirty  pounds 
of  coal  for  twelve  hoars  in  a  moderate  sized  range. 

3.  Improved  Snoh4  Jack,  with  douik  movantnta,  dangle  spits,  and 
universal  joints;  equally  applicable  to  almost  every  description  of 
range,  eitlker  close  or  open.  The  apparatus  is  kept  in  motion  solely 
by  the  upward  current  of  air  in  the  chimney  without  springs  or 
Heights. 

5.  The  satM  rt»  No.  H,  with  single  movementt,  for  a  smaller  range. 


.  PRBFATOST  BBUARES. 


73.  Baba  Mould,  for  bukiiig  l>ab» 
and  other  cake*. 


As  one  of  the  great  elemoitl  of 
Ruccesa  in  cooking  ii  preciseness  ia 
the  proportions  of  ingredients,  the 
cook  should  never  be  without  a  good 
pair  of  scales,  and  she  shoald  keep 
them  in  thoFongh  order.  In  delicate 
dishes  an  unequal  proportion  of  an 
article,  inserted  only  to  impart  a 
will  ruin  the  dish. 


The  neceisity  as  well  as  use  of  scales  is  therefore  obvious. 


AAKQE8,  STOVES,  HOT  WATER  AFPASATITS,  ETC. 

1.  The  Oxford  Boasting  Range,  the  first  flpecimea  of  which  in 
lyondon  was  introduced  at  the  celebrated  kiuhen  of  the  Beform 
Club,  bf  Messrs.  Benham  and  Sons,  of  Wigmore  Street,  though  it 
hat  sinoo  been  adapted  in  mnny  other  large  establishments.  It  has 
an  open  fire,  with  vertical  bars  instead  of  ths  ordinary  and  fHmiliar 
horizontal  ones ;  but  its  peculiar  excellence  consists  in  the  intense 
haat  radiated  from  it.  and  its  great  economy  of  fuel— the  space  from 
the  bars  to  the  back  being  less  than  half  the  usual  depth.  The  hack 
is  formed  of  Stourbridge  fire-clay.  The  size  of  the  fire  may  be 
increased  or  diminished  at  pleasure  ;  and  the  whole  of  the  front 
opens  on  hinges  like  a  gate,  so  as  to  give  ready  acoegs  for  the 
removal  of  cinders,  &c.  The  boiler  for  hot  water  u  placed  behind 
the  back. 

Benham's  Improxed  Family  Range  (not  iUlUtntod)  is  made  on 
the  same  principle  as  the  Oxford  Roasting  Ranga,  but  on  a  smaller 
scale  for  families.     It  has  the  fire>cley  radiating  back,  iron  water 


XXIV  PBBFATOBY  BEHABKE. 

3.  Oven  and  Hot  Closet,  with  separate  faruace  underneath ;  pre- 
ferred hy  many  professional  cook^  to  those  which  are  heated  by  the 
range  fire. 

4.  Hot  Plait  and  Broiling  Stove,  with  a  moveable  gridiron,  all 
heated  bjr  one  fire.  The  top  and  front  are  all  of  iron,  and  the 
draft  can  be  regulated  with  the  greatest  accuracy  by  the  sliding  doors 
in  the  front. 

6.  The  Oxford  Bange,  with  an  Oven  at  the  side ;  heated  hj  a 
eeparate  furnace — in  other  respects  similar  to  the  Family  Range. 

7.  Slewing  Stoves,  heated  by  charcoal,  and  therefore  requiring  no 
Hue,  These  are  considered  by  many  professed  cooks  quite  indis- 
peasable  for  Bome  of  ^eir  more  delicate  operations,  which  require 
s  less  intense  heat  than  that  of  the  Hotplate. 


b.  A  Close  Hange  with  two  ovena,  hot  closet,  boiler,  and  hot- 
plate, all  heated  from  one  central  fire.  Pipes  can  also  be  attached  to 
carry  steam  to  various  kettles  and  saucepans,  for  boiling  vegetablee,  &c., 
if  required.  The  ashes  fall  vaia  a  drawer  under  the  fire.  This  is  a 
usefiJ  and  ecouoraical  form  of  range,  but  unless  great  care  is  t^ken 
it  is  apt  to  overheat  the  kitchen ;  and  as  the  chimney  is  obliged  to 
be  enclosed  entirely  or  partially,  the  ventilation  is  not  nearly  so  per- 
fect as  with  an  open  range. 

There  are.  of  course,  very  many  other  forms  of  kitchen  ranges,  each 
possessing  its  peculiar  merit  iu  a  greater  or  less  degree,  but  these 
will  illustrate  the  one  important  feature  by  which  all  may  be  dis- 
tinguished ;  they  are  open  or  close.  Into  the  question  of  their 
comparative  excelleuce  we  cannot  pretend  to  enter  here. 

9.  Steam  Kettles,  for  cooking  meat,  vegetables,  fish.  They  may 
be  of  any  convenient  size  or  shape  ;  may  be  placed  at  the  most  dis- 
tant part  of  the  kitchen  or  skullery,  and  the  steam  conveyed  to  them 
by  a  pipe  from  the  range  boiler. 

10.  Bainmarie  Pan,  with  a  set  of  stewpan,  soup-pota,  and  glaze- 


PBEFATOBT  BEUABES. 


^^^ 

f=W" 

^^^^^^f^ 

!■■ 

:!^~^i'''| 

i'l'-    .-U        1  J     - 

ftpi  •^•H^  ■— ~>  ■'■ 

»           ^ 

'»   ^P 

pot,  and  inade  with  a  double  body  to  be  heated  by  eteant  &om  tho 
boiler.  This  is  filled  with  hot  water,  in  order  to  keep  the  soups, 
Bsuces,  Ac.,  perfectly  hot,  without  buniiDg  or  drying  them  up. 


11.  The  Cottager't  Store  ia  an  economical,  compact,  and  portable 
cooking  apparatus,  combining  a  good-sized  oven  and  hotplato.  It 
will  cook  for  a  dozen  persona  with  one  pound  of  coal  or  coke  per 
hour,  and  the  top  may  also  be  used  as  an  Ironing  Store.  It  requires 
DO  fixing,  has  no  flues  to  clean,  may  be  placed  in  any  apartment, 
ud  is  a  great  security  against  fire.  There  were  specimens  of  these 
■tores  in  Prince  Albert's  Model  Houses  in  Hyde  Park ;  they  are 
tpecially  adapted  for  cottagers,  emigruits,  working  men.  Sec.,  and  are 
use  found  veiy  useful  as  occasional  adjuncts  to  private  kitchens. 

IS.  Gat  Cooking  Ajiparalvi.  Contrary  to  the  prejudices  of  Tet7 
many,  and  the  early  experience  of  some,  it  is  now  found  that  roasting, 
baking,  boiling,  frying,  stewing,  and  broiling  may  be  performed  by 
the  aid  of  gaa  as  effectually  as  with  a  coal  tire — with  much  more 
cleanliness,  and  without  imparting  the  slightest  taint  or  smell  of  gas 
to  the  food.  The  apparatus  shown  embraces  all  these  points  ;  but 
(key  are  made  of  Tarious  sizes,  and  more  or  less  complete,  as  may 
bedenred. 


FBEFATOBT  BUUBK6. 


We  have  thu9  given  an  accurate  deKriptlon  of  cooking 
utensils  and  appliances,  the  number  required  must  depend 
upon  the  position  of  the  head  of  the  eatablithment^  and  may 
be  multiplied  as  necessity  requires. 

We  will  DOW  give  a  few 


ntPORTANT  HINTS  TO  COOKS, 
Which  they  will  not  regret  following  with  attention. 

Let  there  ^  a  place  for  every  article,  and  when  not  in  use 
let  every  article  be  in  its  place. 

Keep  every  uteanl  clean  and  ready  for  immediate  use. 

The  stock  pot  ahould  never  be  suSered  to  be  empty,  as 
almost  any  meats  (save  salt  meats)  or  fowls  make  stock ;  the 
remnants  should  never  be  thrown  anywhere  but  into  the 
Btoflk  pot,  and  should  too  much  stock  be  already  in  yoqr 
possession,  boil  it  down  to  a  glaze :  waste  is  thus  avoided. 

Keep  your  meat  in  a  cool  dry  place,  your  fish  on  ice,  and 
your  vegetables  on  a  stone  floor  frco  from  air. 

Cut  your  soap  when  it  comes  in,  and  let  it  dry  slowly. 

Keep  your  sweet  herbs  in  paper  bags,  each  bag  containing 
.  only  one  description  of  herb.  They  should  be  dried  in  the 
wind  and  not  in  the  sun,  and  when  ordered  in  a  rece^tt 
should  be  cautiously  used,  as  a  preponderance  in  any  season- 
ing spoils  it. 

When  oranges  or  lemons  are  used  for  juice,  chop  down  the 
peel,  put  them  in  small  pots  and  tie  them  down  for  use. 

Apples. — Id  choosing  apples,  be  guided  by  the  w^ht; 


PBEFATOBT  BEMARKS.  XXVU 

the  heaviest  are  the  b^  and  those  should  always  be  selected 
which,  on  being  pressed  by  the  thumb,  yield  with  a  slight 
crackling  noise.  Prefer  large  apples  to  small,  for  waste  is 
saved  in  peeling  and  coring. 

Apples  should  be  kept  on  dry  straw  in  a  dry  place,  and 
pears  hung  up  by  the  stalk. 

Battbb  for  fish,  meat,  fritters,  &c.— Prepare  it  with  fine 
flour,  salt,  a  little  oil,  beer,  vinegar,  or  white  wine,  and  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  up;  when  of  a  proper  thickness, 
about  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  it  will  drop  out  of  the  spoon 
at  once.     Fry  in  oil  or  hog's  lard. 

Cabrots,  if  young,  need  only  be  wiped  when  boiled — if 
old  they  must  be  scraped  before  boiling.  Slice  them  into  a 
dish,  and  pour  over  them  melted  butter. 

Cauliflowers. — Cut  off  the  stalks,  but  leave  a  little  of 
the  green  on ;  boil  in  spring  water  with  a  little  salt  in  it : 
they  must  not  boil  too  fast. 

Celebt. — Very  little  is  sufficient  for  soups,  as  the  flavour 
is  very  predominating.  It  should  be  particularly  cleanly 
washed  and  curled  when  sent  to  table.  To  curl  celery,  wash 
well,  and  take  off  the  outside  stalks,  cut  it  to  a  proper  length, 
split  each  stalk  into  three  or  four  divisions  with  a  large 
needle,  then  place  the  head  of  celery  in  spring  water  with  the 
root  uppermost,  and  let  it  remain  for  four  or  five  hours — it 
nay  then  be  tastefully  arranged  on  the  dish. 

Game  may  often  be  made  fit  for  eating  when  it  seems 
spoiled,  by  cleaning  it  and  washing  with  vinegar  and  water. 
Birds  that  are  not  likely  to  keep,  should  be  drawn,  cropped,  and 
picked,  then  wash  in  two  or  three  waters,  and  rub  them  with 
salt ;  have  in  readiness  a  large  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and 
plunge  them  into  it  one  by  one,  drawing  them  up  and  down 
hy  the  legs,  so  that  the  water  may  pass  through  them.  Let 
them  stay  for  five  or  six  minutes,  then  hang  them  up  in  a  cold 
plaee;  when  they  are  completely  drained*  well  salt  and  pepper 
the  insides,  and  thoroughly  wash  them  before  roasting. 

Gravies. — The  skirts  of  beef  and  the  kidney  will  make 
quite  as  good  gravy  as  any  other  meat,  if  prepared  in  the  same 
manner.  The  kidney  of  an  ox,  or  the  milt,  makes  excellent 
gravy,  cut  all  to  pieces  and  prepared  as  other  meat,  and  so 


XXVIU  PREFATOKY  BEMARKS. 

with  the  shank  end  of  mutton  that  has  been  dressed^  if  much 
gravy  is  not  required.  The  shank  bones  of  mutton  add 
greatly  to  the  richness  of  gravies,  but  they  should  be  first 
well  soaked  and  scoured  clean.  The  taste  of  gravies  is 
improved  by  tarragon,  but  it  should  be  sparingly  used, 
immediately  before  serving. 

Lard  should  be  carefully  melted  in  a  jar  put  in  a  kettle  of 
water  and  boiled,  and  run  into  bladders  that  have  been  strictly 
cleaned ;  the  bladders  should  not  be  too  large,  as  the  lard  will 
become  rank  if  the  air  gets  to  it.  While  melting  it,  put  in  a 
sprig  of  rosemary. 

Mustard  mixed  smooth  with  new  milk,  and  a  little  cream 
added,  will  keep ;  it  is  very  soft,  and  by  no  means  bitten 

Sago  should  soak  for  an  hour  in  water  previous  to  using^ 
to  take  off  the  earthy  taste. 

Suet  may  be  kept  for  a  twelvemonth,  thus :  choose  the 
firmest  and  most  free  from  skin  or  veins,  remove  all  trace  of 
these,  put  the  suet  in  a  saucepan  at  some  distance  from  the  fire, 
and  let  it  melt  gradually ;  when  melted,  pour  it  into  a  pan  of 
cold  spring  water ;  when  hard,  wipe  it  dry«  fold  it  in  white 
paper,  put  it  into  a  linen  bag,  and  keep  it  in  a  dry  cool  place ; 
when  used,  it  must  be  scraped,  and  will  make  an  excellent 
crust,  either  with  or  without  butter. 

Tongue,  which  has  been  dried,  should  be  soaked  in  water 
three  or  four  hours.  One  which  has  not  been  dried  will 
require  but  little  soaking;  put  it  in  cold  water,  and  boil 
gently  till  tender. 

Baisin  wine  may  be  substituted  for  sherry,  for  sweets 
generally. 

Copper  vessels,  when  the  tinning  is  worn  off,  must  never  be 
used,  or  the  poisoning  of  those  who  partake  of  whatever  may 
have  been  cooked  in  them  is  inevitable.  They  should  be  sent 
to  be  re -tinned  immediately  they  require  it. 

Keep  tapes  and  jelly  bags  clean,  or  when  again  used  they 
will  impart  an  unpleasant  flavour. 

All  soups  should  be  moderately  thin  and  bright. 

Meats  such  as  beef,  mutton,  and  venison,  must  rather  be 
underdone  than  overdone,  excepting  veal  and  pork,  which 
require  to  be  well  done. 


PREFATORY  REMARKS.  ZXIX 

Fish  should  be  quite  done,  but  not  overdone. 

Pastry  must  be  carefully  baked  ;^  it  should  be  sent  to  table 
a  pale  gold  colour. 

Onions  should  be  kept  on  ropes  in  a  dry  place — a  specked 
one  should  be  removed  or  it  will  contaminate  the  others. 

Cold  water  cracks  hot  iron  infallibly. 

Pudding  towels  should  be  carefully  washed,  and  kept  dean 
in  a  dry  place.  Put  a  clean  round  towel  on  the  jack  roller 
quite  as  often  as  necessary. 

Be  very  particular  in  not  letting  your  stocks  and  sauces 
pass  over  two  days  without  boiling  them  up,  and  be  careful 
to  stir  the  thick  soups  and  sauces  all  the  time  they  are  on 
the  fire,  and  change  all  your  cold  meats  into  fresh  clean 
dishes  every  morning,  wiping  down  the  dressers  and  shelves, 
and  if  allowed  larding  cloths  see  that  they  are  clean.  Keep 
your  larder  door  shut,  free  from  dust  and  damp ;  do  not  have 
your  baked  paste  in  the  larder,  but  in  your  kitchen  cupboard, 
and  then  see  to  your  game  larder,  wiping  and  peppering  and 
gingering  your  venison,  arranging  the  game  which  requires 
to  be  dressed  first,  and  see  that  all  the  blood  which  may  have 
dropped  from  the  game  or  venison  is  cleaned  from  the  dressers 
and  flooring.  Then  see  to  the  vegetables,  removing  all  stale 
and  what  is  not  wanted,  giving  it  to  the  poor,  either  as 
dressed  in  some  way  or  natural ;  do  not  be  over-stocked,  yet 
always  keep  a  little  reserve.  This  will  save  much  trouble  to 
the  gardener,  and  frequently  to  the  kitchen-maid,  who  will 
otherwise  have  to  run  from  her  work  down  to  the  garden, 
which,  even  if  she  likes  it^  takes  her  from  other  more 
important  things.  Be  sure  to  look  well  every  morning  to 
your  pickled  pork  and  hams,  keep  and  rub  them  well  and 
turn  them,  marking  those  to  be  used  first ;  your  fish  must  be 
looked  to  and  well  cleaned  and  washed,  and  if  intended  for 
that  day's  dinner,  kept  in  water  until  required ;  if  not,  keep 
it  on  the  marble  or  stones;  your  doors  should  always  be  shut. 

Clean  hands,  always  clean  hands. 

A  dirty  kitchen  is  a  disgrace  to  every  one  connected  with 
it 

With  these  few  hints  we  wind  up  our  remarks,  merely 
adding  that  many  of  the  receipts  here  given,  which  are  on  too 


XZX  PBEFATORT  BEMABK8. 

large  a  scale  for  a  Bmall  family,  may  have  their  proportions 
equally  reduced,  and  an  excellent  dish  will  be  the  result. 
In  some  instances  also,  the  more  expensive  ingredients  may  be 
left  out  without  destroying  the  integrity  of  the  receipt, 
discretion  and  judgment  being  alone  required  in  these  oases. 
In  conclusion,  the  mistress  of  the  household  will  under- 
stand that  the  well-being  of  her  establishment  depends  upon 
her  surveillance;  and  though  her  too  frequent  presence  in  the 
kitchen  would  be  unnecessary  and  annoying  to  the  cook^  yet 
she  should  not  be  deterred  from  visiting  it  by  any  fklse 
delicacy,  or  deference  to  an  absurd  custom  which  makes  it 
vulgar  for  a  lady  to  visit  her  cook  in  her  own  domains.  If 
the  cook  is  thrifty  and  clean,  she  will  be  glad  to  receive  the 
praise  to  which  she  is  fairly  entitled ;  if  dirty  and  oarelesSf  it 
is  tery  essential  that  the  lady  should  be  acquainted  with  the 
fact  in  order  to  remedy  it  by  a  change. 


*^  Oood  housewifery  provides,  ere  a  sickness  do  0(«ie, 
Of  sundry  good  things  in  her  house  to  have  some-^ 
Good  aqua  compotita,  and  vinegar  tart, 
Rose  water,  ana  treacle,  to  comfort  thine  heart. 
Cold  herbs  in  her  garden,  for  agues  to  burn. 
That  over  strong  heat  to  good  temper  may  turn, 
White  endive  and  succory,  with  spinach  enow — 
All  such,  with  good  pot-herbs,  should  follow  the  plough. 
Get  water  of  fumitory,  liver  to  cool, 
And  others  the  like,  or  else  lie  like  a  fool. 
Conserves  of  barbary,  quinces,  and  such. 
With  sirops  that  easeth  the  sickly  so  much. 
Ask  medicos^  counsel,  ere  medicine  ye  take. 
And  honour  that  man  for  necessity's  sake  : 
Though  thousands  hate  physic  because  of  the  cost. 
Yet  thousands  it  helpeth  that  else  should  be  lost' 
Good  broth  and  good  keeping  do  much  now  and  then— • 
Good  diet,  with  wisdom,  best  comforteth  man. 
In  health,  to  be  stirring,'  shall  profit  thee  best— - 
In  sickness  hate  trouble ;  seek  quiet  and  rest. 
Remember  thy  soul ;  let  no  fancy  prevail ; 
Make  ready  to  God-ward ;  let  faith  never  quail  :— 
The  sooner  thyself  thou  submittest  to  God, 
The  sooner  he  ceaseth  to  scourge  with  his  rod.*' 

Tussery  1710. 


THE  POETICAL  COOKERY  BOOK. 


XXXI 


THE  POETICAL  COOKERY  BOOK. 

(From  Punch.) 


TO   HAKB  PKA  SOUP. 

AiB, — ^**  Do  yoM  ever  think  ofmef  Lovef" 

Do  jroa  like  the  Soup  of  Pea,  Ma'am? 

Do  you  like  the  Soup  of  Pea  t 
Then  I'll  tell  you  how  to  make  it, 

If  you'll  listen,  Ma'am,  to  me. 
Steep  your  peas  in  clean  cold  water. 

Then  boil  them  in  a  pan ; 
Then  through  a  hair-aieTe  pats  them — 

You  must  boil  them  till  you  can* 
Then  tell  me,  did  you  ever 

Such  a  nice  foundation  see— 
If  you  only  do  it  clever— 

For  the  fiunous  Soup  call'd  Peat 

To  some  broth  that's  strong  and  nice, 
Ma^am, 

The  peas  youll  please  to  add  ; 
And  a  little  well-boird  rice,  Ma*am, 

Miz'd  with  it  won*t  be  bad. 
Take  yolk  of  egg,  and  beat  it ; 

But,  mark  my  warning  woid. 
You  with  the  soup  must  heat  it, 

Not  boil  it — or  Hwill  curd. 
Then  taste,  and  say  if  ever 

A  better  soup  you'll  see ; 
And,  if  you  answer,  **  Never  I" 

Eat  it,  and  think  of  me. 


Ill  tell  thee  how  the  sauce  to  make, 

Which  gives  the  dish  its  name ; 
Of  hard-boil'd  egg  the  yolk  first  take, 

Then  two  raw  eggs  the  same. 
As  these  you  in  a  basin  blend, 

Where  salt  and  pepper  are. 
You'll  stir  them  well — and  all  will  tend 

To  make  the  Sauce  Tartare* 

I'll  bid  thee  take  a  pint  of  oil, 

And  slowly  let  it  drop 
Into  the  whole — but  it  will  spoil 

If  stirring  it  you  stop. 
And  with  the  oil  alternate  pour 

A  little  vin-e-gar ; 
Your  task  will  then  be  nearly  o'er 

In  making  Sauce  Tartare, 

I'd  make  it  thick,  but  not  in  clots, 

Then  add  some  gherkins  chopp'd. 
With  capeFB,  parsley,  eschalots, 

If  you'll  my  plan  adopt 
A  table-spoon  of  each  will  dow 

French  mustard  from  a  jar 
You'll  add,  with  Cayenne  pepper  too — 

And  there's  your  Sauce  Tartare. 


TO  BRBSS  EELS  X  LA  TJLBTAKB. 

Air,— «rAtf  Light  OuUar.** 

Oh!  leave  the  cray — ^the  cny-fish  mean, 

The  brill,  the  haddock  white, 
And  bring  a  frying-pan  quite  clean, 

Of  polish  daizling  bright ; 
And  place  it  o'er  the  flickering  ray. 

Above  the  grate's  top  bar, 
Then  take  an  Eel,  and  learn  the  way 

To  cook  d  la  Tartare. 

Ill  bid  thee  first  your  fish  divide 

In  bits — from  tail  to  head — 
Through  eggs  and  flour  then  let  them 
glide, 

And  add  some  crumbs  of  bread. 
Ill  tell  thee  next  the  whole  to  fry, 

And  on  the  road  you  are 
To  Uiat  with  which  there's  nought  can  vie, 

An  Eel  d  to  Tartare, 


TO  DRESS  HERRINGS. 

Air,—'*  Afeet  me  by  Moonlight.** 

Meet  me  to  breakfast  alone. 
And  then  I  will  give  you  a  dish. 

Which  really  deserves  to  be  known, 
Though  it's  not  the  genteelest  of  fish. 

You  must  promise  to  come,  for  I  said, 
A  splendid  Red  Herring  I'd  buy. 

Nay,  turn  not  away  your  proud  head ; 
You'll  like  it,  I  know,  when  you  try. 

If  moisture  the  Herring  betray 
Drain,  till  from  moisture  'tis  free ; 

Warm  it  through  in  the  usual  way, 
Then  serve  it  for  you  and  for  me. 

A  piece  of  cold  butter  prepare. 
To  rub  it,  when  ready  it  lies ; 

Egg-sauce  and  potatoes  don't  spare. 
And  the  flavour  will  cause  you  surprise. 


THE  PHILOSOPHY  OF  COOKERY; 

OE, 

HOW  WE  LIVE  ON  WHAT  WE  EAT.    , 


Doubtless  the  trae  province  of  a  cookeiy  book  is  to  tell 
how  to  boil,  bake,  roast,  carve,  choose  provisions,  make  dishes 
and  pastry,  set  out  the  table,  and  in  a  hundred  ways  work 
up  into  palatable  wholesomeness  the  daily  food.  But  having 
in  detail  gone  through  these  mysteries,  we  feel  tempted  to 
advance  a  step,  and  tell  our  readers  something  of  the  making 
ready  of  food,  that  every  hour  goes  on  in  the  great  cookery 
of  nature,  and  how  from  field  ana  garden,  beef,  mutton,  milk, 
and  grain,  are  built  up  our  bulk  and  strength. 

It  is  curious  to  note  man  gathering  his  sustenance  all  over 
the  world,  how  in  search  of  it  he  fishes  and  hunts,  rears  flocks 
and  herds,  ploughs,  sows  and  reaps,  goes  headlong  into 
anxieties,  rises  early,  lies  down  late,  and  wears  out  and  re- 
news his  strength.  There  is  no  land  too  stubborn  for  him, 
no  sea  too  deep,  no  hill  too  high,  no  zone  too  burning  hot  or 
freezing  cold,  no  bird  too  swift  of  wing,  or  beast  too  wild ; 
roots,  plants,  fruits,  flesh,  he  has  stomach  for  everything.  The 
Esquimaux,  in  his  six  months  of  frozen  night,  smacks  his  lips 
over  his  whale  blubber ;  the  Samoiedes,  following  the  chase 
over  hill  and  dale,  in  dear  dry  cold  moimtain  air,  eats  his 
eight  or  ten  pounds  of  meat  a-day,  and  holds  a  dozen  tallow 
candles,  if  chance  throw^them  in  his  way,  a  rich  dessert ;  the 
native  of  Southern  India  lives  on  rice  and  fruit;  the  European 
under  the  same  hot  sun  stirs  up  his  stomach  with  spices  and 
pickles,  to  tempt  himself  to  his  usual  cold  climate  fare ;  the 
wandering  Arab  for  whole  months  lives  upon  milk  alone,  and 
in  view  of  all  the  thousand  strange  simples  and  messes  oa 
which  men  live,  grow,  and  gather  strength,  it  was  long  (in* 
deed  until  quite  recently)  held,  that  there  was  some  special 
miracle  of  cookery  performed  in  the  stomach,  by  which  no 
matter  what  came  into  it  was  made  to  feed  the  blood  and 
build  up  the  bone  and  muscle.  Every  ingredient,  and  the 
quantities  of  it  in  bone  and  fat,  flesh  and  sinew,  were  as  well 
nown  to  men  learned  in  such  matters,  as  the  ingredients  of 

B 


THE   PHILOSOPHY  OF  COOKERY; 


any  given  dish  to  a  cook^  but  although  it  was  never  thought 
the  cook  could  furnish  up  the  dish  without  the  right  matters 
to  make  it,  it  was  held  that  the  stomach  could  build  up  the 
human  frame  out  of  food,  no  matter  how  short  the  food 
might  be  of  the  needfnl  ingredients. 

Modem  discovery  has  however  proved  that  the  stomach 
can  create  nothing;  that  it  can  no  more  furnish  us  with  flesh 
out  of  food,  in  which,  when  swallowed,  the  elements  of  flesh 
are  wanting,  than  the  cook  can  send  us  up  roast  beef  without 
the  beef  to  roast  There  was  no  doubt  as  to  the  cook  and  the 
beef,  but  the  puzzle  about  the  stomach  came  of  our  not 
knowing  what  matters  various  sorts  of  food  really  did  con- 
tain ;  from  our  not  observing  the  effects  of  particular  kinds 
of  food  when  eaten  without  anything  else  for  some  time,  and 
from  our  not  knowing  the  entire  uses  of  food.  But  within 
the  last  few  years  measures  and  scales  have  told  us  these 
things  with  just  the  same  certainty  as  they  set  out  the 
Buet  and  raisins,  currants,  flour,  spices,  and  sugar,  of  a 
plum-pudding,  nnd  in  a  quite  popular  explanation  it  may  be 
said  that  we  need  food  that  as  we  breathe  it  may  warm  us,  and 
to  renew  our  bodies  as  they  are  wasted  by  labour.  Each  pur^ 
pose  needs  a  different  kind  of  food.  The  best  for  the 
renewal  of  our  strength  is  slow  to  furnish  heat;  the  best 
to  rive  us  heat  will  produce  no  strength.  But  this  does  not 
tell  the  whole  need  for  the  two  kinds  of  food.  Our 
frames  arc  wasted  by  labour  and  exercise;  at  every  move 
some  portion  of  our  bodies  is  dissipated  in  the  form  cither  of 
gas  or  water ;  at  every  breath  a  portion  of  our  blood  is  swal- 
lowed, it  may  be  said,  by  one  of  the  elements  of  the  air, 
oxygen;  and  of  strength-giving  food  alone  it  is  scarce  pos- 
sible to  eat  enough  to  feed  at  once  the  waste  of  our  boaies, 
and  this  hungry  oxygen.  With  this  oxygen  our  life  is  in 
some  sort  a  continual  battle ;  we  must  either  supply  it  with 
especial  food,  or  it  will  prey  upon  ourselves ; — a  body  wasted 
by  starvation  is  simply  eaten  up  by  oxygen.  It  likes  fat 
best,  so  the  fat  goes  first;  then  the  lean,  then  the  brain; 
and  if  from  so  much  waste,  death  did  not  result,  the  sinews 
and  very  bones  would  be  lost  in  oxygen. 

The  more  oxygen  we  breathe  the  more  need  we  have  to 
eat.  Every  one  knows  that  cold  air  gives  a  keen  appetite. 
Those  who  in  town  must  tickle  their  palates  with  spices  and 
pickles  to  get  up  some  faint  liking  for  a  meal,  by  the  sea,  or 
on  a  hill-side,  are  hungry  every  hour  of  the  day,  and  the 
languid  appetite  of  summer  and  crowded  rooms,  springs  into 
vigour  witn  the  piercing  cold  and  open  air  of  winter. 
The  reason  of  this  hungriness  of  frosty  air  is  simply  that  our 


OR,   HOW  WE   LIVE   ON  WHAT  WE   EAT.  3 

lungs  hold  more  of  it  than  they  do  of  hot  air,  and  so  wo  get 
more  oxygen,  a  fact  that  any  one  can  prove,  by  holding  a 
little  balloon  half  filled  with  air  near  toe  fire,  it  will  soon 
swell  up,  showing  that  hot  air  needs  more  room  than  cold. 

But  the  oxygen  does  not  use  up  our  food  and  frames 
without  doing  us  good  service,  as  it  devours  it  warms  us. 
The  fire  in  the  grate  is  oxygen  devouring  carbon,  and 
wherever  oxygen  seizes  upon  carbon,  whether  in  the  shape 
cff  coals  in  a  stove  or  fat  in  our  bodies,  the  result  of  the 
Btmggle  (if  we  may  be  allowed  the  phrase)  is  heat. 

In  all  parts  of  the  world,  at  the  Equator  and  the  Poles, 
amidst  eternal  ice  and  under  a  perpendicular  sun,  in  the 
parched  desert  and  on  the  fresh  moist  fields  of  temperate 
cones,  the  human  blood  is  at  the  same  heat ;  it  neither  boils 
nor  freezes,  and  yet  the  body  in  cold  air  parts  with  its  heat, 
and  just  as  we  can  keep  an  earthenware  bottle  filled  with 
boiling  water,  hot,  by  wrapping  it  in  flannel,  can  we  keep 
our  bodies  warm  by  covering  them  closely  up  in  clothes. 
Furs,  shawls,  and  horse-cloths  have  no  warmth  in  themselves, 
they  but  keep  in  the  natural  warmth  of  the  body.  Every 
traveller  knows  that  starting  without  breakfast,  or  neglecting 
to  dine  on  the  road,  he  feels  more  than  usually  chilly ;  the 
effect  is  very  much  the  same  as  if  he  sat  to  his  meals  on  the 
same  cold  day  in  a  room  without  a  fire ;  the  internal  fuel, 
the  food,  which  is  the  oil  to  feed  life's  warming  lamp,  is 
wanting.  On  this  account,  a  starving  man  is  far  sooner 
frozen  to  death  than  one  with  food  in  his  wallet  The 
unfed  body  rapidly  cools  down  to  the  temperature  of  the 
atmosphere,  just  as  the  grate  cools  when  the  fire  has  gone 
out.  Bodily  heat  is  not  produced  in  any  one  portion  oi  the 
bodyj  but  in  every  atom  of  it.  In  a  single  minute  about 
twenty-five  pounds  of  blood  are  sent  flowing  through  the 
InngSy  there  the  whole  mass  meets  the  air,  sucks  in  its  oxygen^ 
and  speeding  on  carries  to  every  portion  of  the  frame  the 
power  which  may  be  said  to  light  up  every  atom  of  flesh, 
nerve,  and  bone,  and  to  keep  the  flame  throughout  the  body 
ever  burning  with  the  fresh  warmth  of  life. 

In  accordance  with  these  facts  we  find  men  all  over  the 
world  acting  instinctively.  In  our  climate,  either  by  neces- 
sity or  choice,  we  exert  ourselves,  quicken  the  blood's  speed, 
breathe  rapidly,  take  in  oxygen  largely;  in  short,  fan  the 
flame  which  quick-returning  hunger  makes  us  feed.  Even 
the  least  civilized  follow  correctly  the  natural  law;  the 
fruit  80  lat^ely  eaten  by  the  native  inhabitants  of  the  tropics 
contains  in  every  100  oz.  not  more  than  12  of  direct  heat- 
prodoeing   elements,  whilst   the  blubber   and  oil   of  the 

B  2 


THE  PHILOSOPHY  OP  COOKEBT; 


Esquimaux  has  in  every  100  oz.  somewhere  about  80  oz.  ot 
such  elements.  Nor  is  it  possible  without  injurious  effects 
to  live  in  opposition  to  this  instinct,  which  science  has  shown 
to  be  in  strict  accordance  with  the  intention  of  nature.  The 
Englishman  in  India  provokes  a  make-believe  appetite  for 
meat;  he  has  no  notion  of  changing  his  home-habits  be- 
cause he  has  left  home  a  few  thousand  miles  away ;  he  goes 
to  war  with  sun  and  air,  eats  meat  abundantly;  in  ehor^ 
stops  up  the  grate  with  throwing  on  fuel  where  there  is 
but  little  of  the  fiery  oxygen  to  consume  it,  grows  sickly 
yellow,  and  so  pays  in  suffering  the  common  penalty  of 
ignorance. 

The  alderman  grows  fat,  because  unfortunately  the  civio 
gown  adds  no  oxygen  to  the  atmosphere^  and  the  honour  calls 
him  to  no  especial  bodily  effort,  whilst  his  dear  turtle  is 
scarcely  less  rich  in  carbon  or  warmth-giving  food,  than  the 
Esquimaux's  blubber;  and  so,  as  the  delightful  green  fat 
lacks  oxygen  to  burn  it,  it  stores  itself  in  little  cells  all  over 
the  alderman,  a  reserve  of  fuel,  like  the  coals  in  his  cellar* 
As  a  contrast  we  may  place  the  native  Indian  of  the  high) 
dry,  clear  air  of  the  South  American  Pampas ;  at  such  ele- 
vation the  air  is  comparatively  scant  of  oxygen.  Of  this 
the  Indian  knows  nothing,  but  he  eats  no  fat,  his  sole  food 
is  dried  lean  flesh,  and  like  it  he  himself  is  lean,  wiry 
muscled,  and  wastes  little  under  toil. 

So  far  therefore  we  have  evidence  that  good  may  come  of 
method  in  our  cookery.  Plum-pudding  is  no  dish  for  the 
dog-days,  but  its  suet  blunts  the  keen  tooth  of  winter* 
Nor  is  it  a  mere  sentimental  sympathy  that  wakes  the  wish 
to  give  the  poor  a  good  Christmas  dinner.  Scant  fare  makes 
cold  more  bitter.  Those  who  must  face  the  wintry  wind 
unfed,  shiver  doubly  in  the  blast  when  they  are  poorly  ckuL 
The  internal  fire  sinks  for  want  of  fuel,  and  the  external 
^r  drinks  up  the  little  warmth  the  slow  consuming  systein 
gives. 

But  this  is  a  digression.  "VVe  have  already  spoken  of  the 
supposed  miraculous  doings  by  which  it  was  taken  for 
granted  the  stomach  could  form  flesh-making  blood  out  of 
eatables  of  all  sorts.  In  infancy  we  thrive  on  milk  alone. 
In  after  years,  on  bread,  meat,  and  vegetables.  Cattle  and 
sheep  are  a  sort  of  walking  machinery  to  turn  grass  and 
grain  into  beef  and  mutton,  tat  and  lean,  for  us.  No  wonder 
it  should  be  a  puzzle  that  the  very  same  being  could  find 
every  part  of  its  body  either  in  milk  or  mutton,  bread  or  po* 
tatoes.  Chemistry  has,  however,  solved  the  riddle,  by  finding 
in  every  form  of  human  food  such  elements  as  can  be  readily 


OB,  HOW  WE  LIVE  ON  WHAT  WE  EAT.  5 

changed  into  the  ingredients  of  the  child's  first  meal, — ^its 
mother's  milk. 

Milk,  as  every  dairy-maid  knows,  when  a  little  rennet  Is 
poured  into  it,  becomes  curd  and  whey.  The  curd  chemists 
call  animal  caseine. 

When  the  water  in  which  the  meal  of  peas,  beans,  or 
lentils  has  been  for  some  time  suffered  to  steep,  is  warmed, 
and  a  little  acid  poured  into  it,  it  gives,  like  the  milk,  a  curd, 
called  vegetable  caseine,  which  is  precisely  the  same  as  the 
curd  of  the  milk,  and  contains,  like  it,  all  the  ingredients  of 
blood. 

So  far,  therefore,  there  is  no  difficulty  in  understanding 
how  we  may  live  on  peas,  beans,  &c.,  just  as  on  milk,  or  meat 

Every  one  knows  that  white  of  egg  poured  into  boiling 
water,  ^thers  together  and  becomes  firm,  the  substance  so 
formed  is  called  animal  albumen.  It  is  identical  with  the 
albumen  of  the  blood. 

When  vegetables  are  pounded  in  a  mortar,  the  fresh 
squeezed-out  juice  lets  fall  a  sediment  which  grass  gives 
largely,  and  which  is  also  to  be  had  from  all  kinds  of  grain. 
This  deposit  is  precisely  the  same  as  the  fibrin  or  lean  of 
flesh.  When  the  remaining  clear  juice  is  boiled,  a  thick 
jelly-like  substance  is  formed.  Cauliflower,  broccoli,  aspara- 
gus, and  cabbage  are  especially  rich  in  this  coagulating  or 
thickening  substance :  it  is  exactly  the  same  thing  as  white 
of  egg  or  animal  albumen.  It  is  called,  therefore,  vegetable 
albumen,  and  is,  in  common  with  the  white  of  egg,  identical 
with  the  albumen  of  blood,  which,  with  the  fibrin,  whether 
animal  or  vegetable,  is  the  source  of  every  portion  of  the 
human  body. 

We  see,  therefore,  that  the  cattle  have,  in  peas  and  beans  as 
caseine,  in  com  and  grass  as  fibrin,  in  sundry  vegetables  as 
albumen,  the  very  materials  of  their  flesh ;  and  that,  whether 
we  live  upon  grain  or  pulse,  beef  or  mutton,  milk  or  eggs, 
we  are  in  fact  eating  flesh,  in  meat  diet  ready  made ;  in  me 
case  of  the  others  containing  the  fit  ingredients  of  prepara- 
tion* Nor  are  we  left  in  the  least  shadow  of  a  doubt  that 
albumen  of  whatever  kind  is  entirely  sufficient  to  produce 
flesh,  for  not  only  do  we  find  every  ingredient  of  flesh  con- 
tained in  it,  but  we  can  turn  the  flesh  and  fibrin  of  the  blood 
back  to  albumen. 

But  besides  the  flesh-making  ingredients,  namely,  the  albu- 
men and  fibrin,  we  have  already  shown  that  it  is  needful  the 
blood  should  have  food  for  oxygen ;  this  also  is  contained  in 
milk,  grain,  pulse,  vegetables,  and  meat.  In  the  meat  as  fat, 
whidi  moire  or  less  the  juices  of  the  meat  and  even  the  lean 


6  THE   PHILOSOPHY   OP  COOKEBY ; 


contain^  in  tho  pulse^  gnun,  mtatoes,  as  starchy  in  the  yegeta- 
bles,  as  sugar  of  various  kinds,  and  in  milk  as  sugar  of  milk. 
At  first  sight,  few  things  seem  less  alike  than  starch  and 
sugar,  but  modem  discovery  has  proved  that  our  saliva — the 
natural  moisture  of  the  mouth  (which  in  its  froth,  as  it  is 
swallowed  with  every  mouthful  of  food,  always  contaii^  air) 
has  power,  when  mixed  with  moistened  starch  at  the  heat  of 
the  stomach,  to  turn  the  starch  into  sugar ;  and  again  we  find 
that  butter  and  fat  contain  the  same  ingredients  as  starch  and 
sugar,  but  with  this  difference,  that  ten  ounces  of  fat  will 
feed  as  much  oxygen  as  twenty-four  ounces  of  starch.  Grains, 
vegetables,  milk,  and  meats  differ  from  each  other,  and  amongst 
themselYCs  in  their  quantities  of  flesh-producing  and  oxygen* 
feeding  substances ;  but  whether  the  oxygen  feeders  be  in  the 
form  of  sugar  or  fat,  we  can  tell  exactly  how  much  staroh 
they  amount  to,  and  the  following  list  taken  from  Baron 
Leibig's  Familiar  Letters  on  Chemistry,  in  this  way  shows 
the  relative  value  of  the  several  kinds  of  food  in  flesh- 
producing,  and  oxygen-feeding,  or  warmth-giving  ingi:^ent8. 

PlMh         Wanntk 
producing.       giTiaS- 

Human  milk  has  for  every  ten  flesh-producing 

parts  .         .                  ....  10  40 

Cows' milk 10  80 

Lentils 10  21 

Horse  beans 10  22 

Peas 10  23 

Fat  mutton 10  27 

^   Fat  pork 10  30 

Beef JO  17 

Hare 10  2 

Veal 10  1 

Wheat  flour 10  46 

Oatmeal 10  50 

Rye  flour 10  57 

Barley 10  57 

White  potatoes 10  86 

Black    ditto 10  115 

Rice 10  12."^ 

Buck  wheat  flour 10  130 

Here,  then,  we  have  proof  of  the  value  of  variety  in  food, 
and  come  upon  what  may  be  called  the  philosophy  of  cookery.* 

*  **  Among  all  the  arts  known  to  man."  says  Leibig, "  there  is  none  which  enjoys 
a  juBter  appreciation,  and  the  products  of  which  are  more  universally  admired 
than  that  which  is  concerned  in  the  prciiaration  of  our  food.  Led  by  an  inatiiiet, 
which  has  almost  reached  the  dignity  of  conscious  knowledge,  as  the  unerring 
guide,  and  by  the  sense  of  taste  which  protects  the  health,  the  experienced  cook, 
with  respect  to  the  choice,  the  admixture^  and  the  preparation  of  food,  has  «*•*!• 


OR,   HOW  WE  LIVE  ON  WHAT  WE  EAT.  7 

In  our  food  the  proportions  of  human  milk  are  the  best  we  can 
aimat ;  it  hasenough  of  flesh^roducingingredients  torestoreour 
daily  waste^  and  enough  of  warmth-giving  to  feed  the  oxygeu 
we  breathe.  To  begin  with  the  earliest  making  of  dishes, 
we  find  that  cows'  milk  has  less  of  oxygen-feeding  ingredients 
in  a  given  measure  than  human  milk ;  a  child  would,  there* 
fore,  grow  thin  upon  it  unless  a  little  sugar  were  added; 
wheat  flour  has,  on  the  other  hand,  so  much  an  excess  of 
oxygen-feeding  power  as  would  fatten  a  child  unhealthily, 
and  it  should  therefore  have  cows'  milk  added  to  reduce  the 
fattening  power. 

The  same  sort  of  procedure  applies  in  greater  or  less 
degree  to  all  dishes.  V  eal  and  hare  stand  lowest  in  the  list 
for  their  oxygen-feeding  qualities,  and,  on  this  account, 
should  be  eaten  with  potatoes  or  rice,  which  stand  highest, 
and  with  bacon  and  jelly  which  furnish  in  their  fat  and 
sugar  the  carbon  wanting  in  the  flesh.  With  the  above  table 
beibre  us,  and  keeping  in  mind  the  facts  already  detailed,  it  ia 
clear  that  cookery  should  supply  us  with  a  mixed  diet  of  animal 
and  vegetable  food,  and  should  aim  so  to  mix  as  to  give  us 
for  every  ounce  of  the  flesh-making  ingredients  in  our  food, 
four  ounces  of  oxygen-feeding  ingredients.  It  is  clear,  also, 
that  the  most  nourishing  or  strength-giving  of  all  foods  are 
fresh  red  meats,  they  are  flesh  readv  made,  and  contain,  be- 
sides, the  iron  which  gives  its  red  colour  to  the  blood,  being 
short  of  which  the  blood  lacks  vitality,  and  wanting  which  it 
dies. 

To  preserve  in  dressing  the  full  nourishment  of  meats, 
and  their  properties  of  digestiveness,  forms  a  most  important 

acquisitions  surpassing  all  that  chemical  and  physiological  science  have  done  in 
regiird  to  the  doctrine  or  theory  of  nutrition. 

**  In  soup  and  meat  sauces  he  imitates  the  gastric  juices,  and  by  the  cheese,  which 
closes  the  banquet,  he  assists  the  action  of  the  dissolved  epithalmium  (fine  inner 
lining),  which,  with  the  swallowed  saliva,  forms  rennet  of  the  stomach.  The  table 
supplied  with  dishes,  appears  to  the  observer  like  a  machine,  the  parts  of  which 
arc  harmoniously  fitted  together,  and  so  arranged,  that  when  brought  into  action,  a 
maximum  of  effect  may  be  obtained  by  means  of  them.  The  able  culinary  artist 
accompanies  ;the  blood,  making  articles  with  those  which  promote  the  process  of 
solution  and  re-solution  into  blood  in  due  proportion ;  he  avoids  all  kinds  of  unne- 
cessary stimuli,  such  as  do  not  net  in  restoring  the  equilibrium  ;  and  he  provide* 
the  due  nourishment  for  the  child  as  well  as  the  old  man,  as  well  as  for  both 
eexcs. 

^  The  intelligent  and  experienced  mother  or  nurse  chooses  tood  for  the'child  with 
the  same  attention  to  the  laws  of  nature ;  she  gives  him  chiefly  milk  and  &rina- 
ceous  food,  always  adding  fruits  to  the  latter ;  she  prefers  tlie  flesh  of  adult  animal* 
which  are  rich  in  bone  earth,  to  that  of  young  animals,  and  always  accompanies 
itjwith  garden  vegetables ;  she  gives  the  child  especially  bones  to  gnaw,  and  exclude* 
from  its  diet  veal,  fish,  and  potatoes ;  to  the  excitable  child  of  weak  digestive 
powers,  she  gives,  in  its  £Euinaceous  food,  infusion  of  malt  and  uses  milk  sugar,  the 
respiratory  matter  prepared  by  nature  herself  for  the  respiratory  process,  in  piefoy 
ence  to  cane  sugar;  and  she  allows  lum  the  unlimited  use  of  salt/' 


8  THE  PHILOSOPHY  OF  COOKEBT; 

part  of  the  art  of  cookery;  for  these  ends  the  object  to 
be  kept  in  mind  is  to  retain  as  much  as  possible  the  juices 
of  the  meat^  whether  roast  or  boiled.  This,  in  the  case 
of  boiling  meat  is  best  done  by  placing  it  at  once  in  briskljr 
boiling  water;  the  albumen  on  the  surface^  and  to  some 
depths  is  immediately  coagulated,  and  thus  forms  a  kind 
of  covering  which  neither  allows  the  water  to  get  into  the 
meat,  nor  the  meat  juice  into  the  water.  This  accomplished, 
the  water  should  be  kept  just  under  boiling  until  the  meat 
be  thoroughly  done,  which  it  will  be  when  every  part  has 
been  heated  to  about  165  degrees,  the  temperature  at  which 
the  colouring  matter  of  the  blood  coagulates  or  fixes;  at 
a  lower  temperature*  133  degrees,  the  albumen  sets,  but  the 
blood  does  not,  and  therefore  the  meat  looks  red  and  raw. 
We  have  taken  this  bit  of  instruction  for  cooks  direct  from 
Leibig.  As  to  roasting,  the  same  rules  apply:  the  meat 
should  first  be  brought  near  enough  a  bright  fire  to  brown 
the  outside,  and  should  then  be  allowed  to  roast  slowly.  In 
connection  with  this  point  of  preserving  the  rich  juices  of 
meat,  it  may  be  as  well  to  remind  all  cooks  and  housekeepers 
that  the  brine  in  which  meat,  covered  with  dry  salt,  is  in  two 
or  three  days  found  swimming,  is  caused  by  the  fact  that 
the  meat  has  in  it  a  large  quantity  of  water,  that  it  can  hold 
but  about  half  as  much  of  brine  as  water,  and  that  the  excess 
of  water  as  it  flows  out,  carries  with  it,  to  so  large  an  extent, 
the  juices  and  nourishing  power  of  the  meat,  that  it  is  no 
over  estimate  to  state  that  one  pound  in  every  three  is  com- 
pletely thrown  away  when  meat  is  corned. 

Belonging  also  to  this  question  of  waste  and  nourishment, 
it  is  to  be  noted,  that  the  almost  everywhere-agreed-upon 
notion  that  soup,  which  sets  into  strong  jelly,  must  be  the 
most  nutritious,  is  altogether  a  mistake.  The  soup  sets 
because  it  contains  the  gelatine  or  glue  of  the  sinews,  flesh, 
and  bones:  but  on  this  unagined  richness  alone  it  has,  by 
recent  experiments,  been  proved  that  no  animal  can  live. 
The  jelly  of  bones  boiled  into  soup,  can  furnish  only  jelly 
for  our  bones ;  the  jelly  of  sinew  or  calf  s  feet  can  form  only 
sinew ;  neither  flesh  nor  its  juices  set  into  a  jelly.  It  is 
only  by  long  boiling  we  obtain  a  soup  that  sets,  but  in  a 
much  less  time  we  get  all  the  nourishing  properties  that  meat 
yields  in  soup.*    Jellies  are  no  doubt  useful  in  cases  of 

♦  In  conformity  with  the  Rbove,  Leibig  tells  how  the  best  beef  tea  or  brown 
Boup  should  be  made.  ^  When  one  pound  of  lean  beef,  free  from  fat,  and 
separated  from  the  bones,  in  the  finely  chopped  state  in  which  it  is  used  for  beef 
sausages  or  mince-meat,  is  uniformly  mixed  with  its  own  weight  of  cold  water, 
then  slowly  heated  to  boiling,  and  the  liquid  after  boiling  briskly  for  a  minute  or 
two  is  strained  through  a  cloth  or  sieve  from  the  coagulated  albumen  and  the 


OB,  HOW  WE  LIVE  ON  WHAT  WE  EAT.  9 

recovery  from  illness  when  the  portions  of  the  system  in 
which  it  occurs  have  been  wasted,  out  in  other  cases,  though 
easily  enough  digested,  jelly  is  unwholesome,  for  it  loads 
the  blood  with  not  only  useless  'but  disturbing  products. 
Nor  does  jelly  stand  alone.  Neither  can  we  live  on  meat 
which  has  been  cleared  of  fat,  long  boiled,  and  has  had  all 
the  juice  pressed  out  of  it;  a  dog  so  fed,  lost  in  forty-three 
days  a  fourth  of  his  weight;  in  fifty-five  days  he  bore  all 
the  appearance  of  starvation,  and  yet  such  meat  has  all  the 
muscular  fibre  in  it.  In  the  same  way,  animals  fed  on  pure 
caseine,  albumen,  fibrin  of  vegetables,  starch,  sugar,  or  fat, 
died,  with  every  appearance  of  death  by  himger. 

Further  experiment  showed  that  these  worse  than  useless 
foods  were  entirely  without  certain  matters  which  are 
always  to  be  found  in  the  blood,  namely,  phosphoric  acid, 
potash,  soda,  lime,  [magnesia,  oxide  of  iron,'*  and  common 
salt  (in  certain  of  these  we  may  mention,  by  way  of  paren- 
thesis, that  veal  is  especially  deficient,  and  hence  its  diffi- 
culty of  digestion  and  poor  nutrient  properties).  These 
salts  of  the  blood,  as  they  are  termed  in  chemistry,  are  to  be 
found  in  the  several  wheys  and  juices  of  meat,  milk,  pulse, 
and  grain.  Here  then  was  the  proof  complete,  that  such  food, 
to  support  life,  must  contain  the  several  ingredients  of  the 
blood,  and  that  the  stomach  cannot  make,  nor  the  body  do 
without  the  least  of  them. 

We  are  indebted  for  the  information  given  in  this  chapter 
to  the  Familiar  Letters,  and  Animal  Chemistry  of  Baron 

fibrin,  which  are  then  become  hard  and  homy,  we  obtain  an  equal  weight  of  the 
most  aromatic  soup,  of  such  strength  as  can  be  had  even  by  boiling  for  houra  from 
a  piece  of  flesh ;  also,  when  mixeid  with  salt,  and  the  other  additions  b j  which 
loup  is  usually  seasoned,  and  tinged  somewhat  darker  by  means  of  roasted  onions 
or  burnt  sugar,  it  forms  the  very  best  soup  that  can  be  prepared  from  a  pound  of 
flesh." 

The  proof  of  the  excellence  of  this  soup  is  to  be  had  in  the  fact,  that  it  hat 
been  found  of  the  greatest  value  to  an  army  on  active  service.  Given  to  wounded 
soldiers  with  a  little  wine  it  immediately  restores  their  strength  Irom  the  ex- 
haustion by  loss  of  blood,  and  enables  them  far  better  to  bear  removal  to  the  nearest 
hospital.  There  is  scarce  need  to  mention  that  the  soup  so  useful  in  such  severe 
instances  must  be  a  most  admirable  restorative  in  cases  of  weakness  from  illness, 
&c.  True  it  is  that  this  soup  contains  little  or  no  flesh  or  albumen;  but  it  is  rich 
in  the  juice  of  flesh.  Flesh  itself,  as  we  have  shown  in  the  case  of  starvation, 
wastes  but  slowly,  the  iron  and  several  salts  of  the  juices  are  far  more  rapidly  lost, 
and  also  more  quickly  digested  or  furnished  to  the  blood,  and  thence  the  speedily 
reviving  eflects  of  this  quickly  made  beef-tea. 

*  **  We  cannot  imagine  the  formation  of  blood 'globules  without  iron,  corresponding 
to  the  quantity  which  daily  becomes  worn  out  or  inactive,  and  is  excreted  by  the 
intestinal  canal.  It  is  quite  certain  that,  if  iron  be  excluded  from  the  food, 
organic  life  cannot  be  supported.  Vegetable  food,  especially  grain,  and,  of  course^ 
bread,  contains  as  much  iron  as  beef  or  red  meat  generally;  veal  contains  only 
one  third  of  the  iron  that  beef  does.  Cheese,  eggs,  and  especially  fish,  contain  in 
pioportion  to  the  alkalies,  a  quantity  still  smaller  than  veaU" 


10  THE  PHILOSOPHY  OP  COOKERY; 


Leibig,  works  full  of  instruction,  and  to  which  we  would 
refer  such  of  our  readers  as  may  have  found  their  attention 
fixed  by  our  remarks.  Few.  books  will  better  repay  a  study, 
and  there  are  few  subjects  of  more  true  interest  than  the 
explanation  of  how  the  earth,  and  air,  and  rains,  and  dew 
feed  vegetation ;  how  vegetables  become  the  flesh  of  beasts, 
iheir  flesh  the  flesh  of  men;  and  how,  through  every  order 
of  life,  there  is  growth,  waste,  maintenance  of  force,  and 
hourly  return  of  borrowed  elements,  until  at  length  the  life 
is  ended,  and  the  frame,  obedient  to  the  perpetual  force  of 
nature,  yields  back  the  several  elements  that  gathered,  in  the 
daily  food,  built  up  the  bulk,  restored  to  every  part  its  hourly 
waste,  supplied  the  strength  for  every  efibrt,  and  gave  at 
every  breath  the  vital  warmth. 


A  FEW  WORDS  ABOUT  THE  ADULTERATION  OP  OUR  FOOD, 

AND  THE  PURITY  OF  WATER. 

But  spite  of  our  receipts  and  our  philosophy,  the  briskness 
of  the  fire,  the  skill  of  our  cook,  the  excellence  of  the  oven, 
and  the  bright  array  of  pots,  kettles,  pans,  moulds,  griddles 
and  gridirons,  and  the  presiding  genius  of  even  a  half  Fortn- 
natus  sort  of  a  purse,  or  the  most  rigid  scale  and  measure 
of  economy,  one  grand  puzzle  besets  alike  all  kitchens,  the 
difficulty  of  really  gcttmg  the  ingredients  on  which  the 
mystery  of  food  manufacture  is  to  be  exercised. 

The  very  water  we  have  to  cook  with,  is  crowded  with 
millions  of  monsters — things  with  two  heads  and  no  heads, 
with  countless  legs  and  no  legs,  with  jaws  and  pincers  and 
claws,  and  most  wonderfully  springy  tails ;  in  some  water  weU 
nigh  enough  of  them  to  make  a  sort  of  soup,  to  say  nothing 
of  the  chsilk,  lime,  iron,  and  a  host  of  other  impurities. 

The  suCTr,  if  it  be  brown,  without  taking  note  of  such 
items  as  a  little  lead,  a  good  deal  of  sand,  some  clay  and  flour, 
is  pretty  nearly  as  thick  as  it  can  hold  of  chips  of  cane  and 
swarms  of  mites. 

Our  tea,  if  green,  is  painted  and  polished  with  Prussian 
blue,  turmeric  powder,  and  China  clay,  and  is  a  mixture  of 
all  the  leaves  that  the  wonderful  indubtry  and  ingenuity  of 
the  Chinese,  and  for  marvellous  economy  of  honesty  by  our 
own  grocers  can  accomplish;  we  have  old  tea-leaves  dried 


OB,   HOW  WE   LIVE   ON  WHAT  WE  EAT,  11 

and  twisted  up,  and  oolourcd  and  glazed,  and  sold  for  black 
and  green ;  wo  have  even  gunpowder  made  up  of  dust  and 
sand,  and  gum,  faced  as  they  call  it  with  plumbago. 

Coffee,  fragrant  and  refreshing,  has  almost  become  a  mytii, 
we  may  have  pneumatic  coffee-pots  that  will  not  let  the  finest 
dust  pass  through  their  strainers,  French  coffee-pots»  German 
ooffee-pots,  and  all  kinds  of  traditional  directions  for  the 
manunctnre,  just  as  it  is  to  be  had  in  Paris ;  but  not  one  of 
them  can  help  us  to  make  coffee,  unless,  as  good  old  Mrs. 
Glass  would  say,  *'we  have  first  got  our  coffee;"  and  what 
with  foreign  rojniery  and  home  roguery,  the  Chancellor  of  the 
Exchequer,  and  the  sore  temptations  to  cheat  the  customs, 
the  chances  are  twenty  to  one  against  us,  that  the  brown 
powder  we  are  at  so  much  pains  with,  once  flourished  at  the 
end  of  a  blue  flower,  on  a  long  stalk  under  our  own  hedges, 
being  known  where  it  grew  under  the  name  of  wild  endiv^ 
christened  in  trade  chicory,  and  being  in  reality  a  tall  and  aristo- 
cratic sort  of  dandelion,  possessing  too  the  medicinal  properties 
of  dandelion,  and  none  whatever  of  the  properties  of  coffee. 
But  even  if  people  be  taken  with  a  liking  for  this  dandelion 
tea  instead  of  coffee,  they  cannot  even  have  it  pure,  fhe 
chicory  itself  is  far  too  costly  to  content  the  avaricious 
roguerjr  of  a  number  of  dealers,  and  so  the  chicory  itself 
is  adulterated  with  roasted  com,  parsnips,  manglewurzel, 
beans,  Egyptian  lupin  seed,  biscuit  powder,  burnt  sugar, 
roasted  carrots,  oak  bark,  tan,  acorns,  mahogany  sawdust, 
and  DO  little  sand,  the  result  of  the  original  dirt  judiciously 
left  as  a  make-weight  upon  the  root  of  the  chicory  itself. 

Mustard  can  scarce  oe  said  to  have  even  the  colour  of 
mustard,  for  it  is  coloured  with  turmeric,  and  what  passes 
for  mustard  is  in  many  a  case  little  more  than  mere  husks 
and  flour. 

Pepper  is  messed  up  with  wheat-flour,  mustard-seed  husks, 
sago-meal,  pea-flour,  and  warehouse  sweepings;  nor  does  it 
(ture  better  with  food  for  invalids,  oatmeal  is  mingled  with 
fSur  less  di^stive  barley-meal  at  half  the  price.  Arrow-root 
(which  it  uiould  be  understood  is  the  produce  of  under  ground 
branches  or  bulbs  of  the  maranta  plant,  growing  in  the  West  and 
East  Indies,  and  having  gained  its  name  of  arrow-root  from 
the  belief  that  it  was  a  remedy  against  the  deadliness  of 
poisoned  arrows),  is  to  the  utmost  economized;  and  though  its 
purity  is  often  of  great  importance  to  the  invalid,  there  is  for 
the  most  part  sold  instead,  sago-flour,  tapioca-flour,  and  most 
commonly  of  all  and  worst  of  all,  potato-starch. 

Milk  and  bread,  the  laborious  and  able  sanitary  commission 
of  the  **  Lancet,"  to  whose  reports  for  more  full  information 


12  THE  PHILOSOPHY  OP  COOKEBY ; 

we  would  refer  our  readers,  has  shown  are  not  much  adulte- 
rated. But  the  milky  partly  by  the  kind  of  keep  of  the  cows, 
partly  by  a  little  careful  skimming,  and  in  a  multitude  of 
cases  by  the  liberal  aid  of  the  pump,  is  duly  thinned.  Flour 
and  bread,  of  old  mixed  with  plaster  of  Paris,  ground  bones, 
and  potato  starch  —  thanks  to  the  cheapening  of  pure 
materials,  has  come  to  content  itself  with  alum  only,  and 
instead  of  other  adulteration,  customers  are  cheated  with 
light  weight,  a  matter  on  which  there  is  no  need  to  say 
anything,  but  that  its  best  corrective  is  a  pair  of  household 
scales  and  the  nearest  police  office.  But  this  running  account 
of  roguery,  except  for  its  curiousness,  would  be  of  little  use 
without  a  few  hints,  if  not  as  to  detection  and  prevention, 
at  least  as  to  how  our  readers  may  escape  from  amongst  the 
number  of  dupes  and  sufferers,  who  are  daily  and  hourly 
swindled  in  the  kingdom. 

As  to  tea  (the  fact  being  that  since  the  experienced  officers 
of  the  East  India  Company  have  ceased  to  hold  the  Chinese 
traders  in  terrorum,  almost  no  real  green  tea  reaches  this 
country,  but  all  pretending  to  be  such  are  painted  with 
poisons),  it  is  best  to  be  content  with  black  tea  alone. 

For  sugar,  the  best  advice  is — if  you  like  to  pay  for  dirt  and 
to  mix  it  with  your  preserves,  puddings,  and  pastry,  and 
choose  to  believe  the  grocers,  that  sugar  that  moistens  even 
the  thick  paper  they  place  it  in,  and  which  looks  dark,  smells 
strong,  and  sticks  to  your  fingers,  is  richer  in  sweetening 
than  clear  sparkling  white  sugar,  out  of  which  none  of  the 
sweetening  but  all  the  dirt  has  oeen  washed — then  buy  brown 
sugar. 

Please  tell  the  people  over  the  way,"  said  a  gentleman, 

that  I  would  take  it  as  a  particular  favour,  if  in  future  they 
will  send  me  the  cow's  hairs  on  one  plate,  and  the  butter  on 
another,  and  I  can  mix  them  myself  as  I  want  them."  Such 
is  our  advice  as  to  coffee.  It  seems  beyond  the  reach  of 
average  human  honesty  to  sell  it  pure.  The  chicory  is  so 
fragrant — so  wholesome — such  an  improvement  on  the  flavour 
of  the  Arabian  berry,  and  withal  so  much  cheaper,  that 
mixed  it  must  be.  We  say  therefore.  Buy  your  coffee  in  the 
berry,  raw ;  your  chances  are  at  all  events  fifty  to  one  better 
of  having  coffee  only.  Boast  and  grind  it  for  yourselves,  and, 
if  you  like  chicory  or  dandelion,  endive,  or  any  other  weed 
with  it,  why,  buy  the  roots,  scorch  them  and  grate  them,  and, 
like  the  man  with  the  hairs  in  his  butter,  mix  them  to  your 
taste.  But  do  not,  unless  you  choose  to  cheat  your  stomachs, 
buy  ground  coffee,  a  mill  will  soon  pay  for  itself;  and  at  all 
events  never  purchase  canistered  or  bottled  coffee,  for  in 


OB,   HOW  WE  LIVE  ON  WHAT  WE  EAT.  13 

~   Ml  ra-m-      t -    —       -  -  — — 

ninety-nine  cases  out  of  a  hundred  an  additional  dose  of  dust 
is  made  to  pay  for  the  tin  or  glass.* 

As  to  water — every  one  knows  that  plumbers  make  the 
bottoms  of  the  cisterns  thicker  than  the  sides  because  the 
water  eats  the  lead  away ;  hard  water  does  so  more  than  soft^ 
and  water  from  the  same  source  more  at  sometimes  than 
others.  Lead,  as  the  phrase  is,  accumulates  in  the  system,  so 
that  ever  so  little  taken  day  by  day,  at  length  sums  up  to  a  poi-* 
sonous  dose  sufficient  to  mar  the  health.  The  remedy  for  this 
mischief  is  simply  to  have  the  service-pipes  made  of,  and  the 
cistems  lined  with,  gutta  percha.  Some  towns — Glasgow^ 
Nottingham,  Manchester,  for  instance,  are  fortunate  in  having 
supplies  of  pure  soft  water,  and  though  the  change  is  compa* 
ratively  recent,  the  good  effect  has  already  begim  to  show 
itself  in  the  returns  of  the  public  health. 

Thames  and  other  river  waters,  with  which  London  and 
many  other  cities  and  towns  are  supplied,  contain  in  every 
gallon  from  twenty  to  four  and  twenty  grains  of  ingredients, 
which  have  more  or  less  a  medicinal  effect,  besides  the  many 
injurious  living  animalculae  and  matters  of  animal  refuse. 
Many  spring  waters,  though  of  course  free  from  the  animal  im- 
purities, abound  still  more  in  the  medicinaL  To  render  such 
waters  fit  for  healthful  use,  some  process  of  purification  is 
absolutely  essential,  and  such  purincation  very  perceptibly 
improves  both  their  cooking  and  washing  properties. 

Ordinary  filters  certainly  free  water  from  a  considerable 
quantity  of  dirt,  but  not  from  the  medicinal  ingredients,  nor 
even  from  all  the  animalculas,  some  of  which,  though  quite 
visible  as  monsters  with  a  microscope,  nevertheless  find  their 
way  through  the  filter.     One  of  the  simplest  processes  of 

*  It  may  not  be  amSas  to  show  how  tea  is  made  in  China,  and  coffee  amongst 
the  Turks. 

The  art  of  making  tea  consists  in  pouring  the  water  on  and  off  immediately,  so 
as  to  ^et  the  flavour. 

Coffee  making  is  a  more  intricate  affair,  and  cannot  be  fiilly  conveyed  in  a  receipt. 
But  a  docile  spirit  that  will  dismiss  every  received  idea  and  not  reason,  may  make 
something  out  of  the  hints  I  now  submit. — The  coffee  must  be  slowly  roasted,  not 
burnt,  and  brought  only  to  an  amber  brown,  it  must  be  roasted  day  by  day.  The 
flavour  dissipates  in  a  few  hours,  it  must  be  reduced  by  pounding  to  an  impalpable 
powder.  In  making  it,  two  opposite  and  apparently  incompatible  ends  are  to  be 
secured — strength  and  flavour.  To  obtain  the  first,  it  must  be  boiled ;  by  boiling, 
the  second  is  lost.  The  difficulty  is  surmounted  by  a  double  process, — one  thorough 
rooking,  one  slight  one  ;  by  the  first  a  strong  infusion  is  obtained,  by  the  second 
that  ii^ision  is  flavoured.  Thus  a  large  pot  with  coffee-lees  stands  simmering  by 
the  fire ;  this  is  the  sherbet.  When  a  cup  is  wanted  the  pounded  coffee  is  put  in 
the  little  tin  or  copper  pan,  and  placed  on  the  embers  ;  it  fumes  for  a  moment, 
then  the  sherbet  is  poured  on;  in  a  few  seconds  the  firoth  (caimah)  rises;  presently 
an  indication  that  it  is  about  to  boil  is  made  manifest,  when  the  coffee  is  instantly 
taken  from  the  fire,  carried  into  the  apartment,  tamed  into  the  cup,  and  drunk.** 
'•^Urguari'i  Pilian  of  HercuieK 


14  THE  PHILOSOPHY  OP  COOKERT. 

purification,  if  people  will  only  take  the  trouble  to  perfonn  i1 
and  it  is  surely  worth  it  for  the  increase  of  C(Mnfort  and  the  ad- 
vantage to  health  is, — for  every  forty  gallons  that  the  cistern 
holds  to  pour  in  one  gallon  of  lime  water;  this  has  the  effect 
of  throwing  down  from  the  water  a  large  proportion  of  the 
chemical  ingredients,  and  no  small  multitude  of  the  animal- 
culae.  Such  water  filtered  is  perhaps  as  nearly  pure  as  it  can 
be  made  from  the  present  source  of  the  supplies.  Another 
method  of  purification  is  by  long  slow  boiling,  then  allowing 
the  water  to  cool,  and  filtering  it  Some  trouble  no  doubt 
there  is  in  anv  such  course,  but  pure  water,  like  pure  air,  is 
essential  to  a  life  of  health,  and  those  who  will  not  be  at  the 
trouble  must  make  up  their  minds  to  some  degree,  of  infirmity 
and  unhappiness. 


ILLUSTRATED  LONDON  COOKERY  BOOK. 


CHAPTER  1. 


OK  CABVIHa 

Ose  of  the  most  important  aeqaisitiona  in  the  routina  of  daily  life 
ia  the  abilitj  to  carve  well,  and  not  only  ^vell  but  clegBntly.  It  U 
tne  that  the  modes  now  adopted  of  sending  meala,  i:c.  to  t^ble  ore 
bst  banishing  the  necessity  for  promiscuous  carving  fmm  the 
degantlj  served  boards  of  the  wealthy  ;  but  in  the  circles  of  middle 
life,  where  the  refinements  of  cool;ery  are  not  adopted,  the  utility  of 
a  sidll  iH  the  use  of  a  earring  knife  is  suSciently  obvious. 

It  Diunt  not  be  supposed  tJiat  tlic  necessity  for  this  acquirement  is 
eonflned  to  the  heads  of  families  alone,  it  is  as  important  for  the 
bietielor  visitor  to  be  familiar  ^tb  the  art.  as  it  is  for  the  host  him- 
idf :  indeed  he'  is  singled  out  usually  for  the  task  of  earring  a  side 
Sak.  which  happening  to  be  poultry  of  some  kind,  becomes  a  task 
MOft  nnbarrassing  to  him,  if  be  should  happen  to  be  ignorant  of  the 
media  optrandi  of  skilfully  dissecting  a  fowl.     Ho  may  happen  to  be 


16  ON  CABVING. 


on  the  right  hand  of  the  ladj  of  the  house,  and  at  her  request,  very 
politely  conveyed,  he  cannot  refuse ;  he  rises,  therefore,  to  his  task 
as  though  one  of  the  lahours  of  Hercules  had  been  suddenly  imposed 
on  him;  he  first  casts  around  him  a  nervous  glance  to  ascertain 
whether  any  one  else  is  carving  a  fowl,  in  order  to  see  where 
they  insert  their  fork,  at]  what  part  they  commence,  and  how  thej 
go  on ;  but  it  generally  happens  that  he  is  not  so  fortunate  as  he 
desires,  and  therefore  he  is  left  to  get  through  the  operation  as  well  as 
he  can.  He  takes  up  his  knife  and  fork  desperately,  he  knows  that 
a  wing  is  good,  a  slice  of  the  breast  is  a  dainty,  and  that  a  leg  is  a 
gentleman's  portion,  so  he  sticks  his  fork  in  at  random,  and  sladies  at 
the  wing,  misses  the  joint,  and  endeavours  to  cut  through  the  l)one; 
it  is  not  an  easy  task,  he  mutters  something  about  his  knife  not  being 
sharp,  essays  a  grin  and  a  faint  j^u  de  mot  at  the  expense  of  the  fowFa 
age,  and  finding  the  bone  will  not  sunder  by  fair  means,  he  puts  oat 
his  strength,  gets  off  the  wing  with  a  sudden  dash  which  propels  the 
mangled  member  off  the  dish  upon  the  cloth,  sends  the  body  of  tba 
fowl  quite  to  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  with  the  jerk  splashes  a 
quantity  of  gravy  over  the  rich  dinner  dress  of  the  lady  seated  next 
to  him,  much  to  her  chagrin  at  the  injury  to  her  robe,  and  her 
contempt  for  the  barbarous  ignorance  he  has  displayed.  He  has  to 
make  a  thousand  apologies  for  his  stupidity,  which  only  serve  to 
make  his  deficiency  more  apparent,  he  becomes  heated,  suffused  with 
blushes  and  perspiration,  continues  hacking  and  mangling  the  fowl 
imtil  he  has  disjointed  the  wings  and  legs,  and  then,  alas !  the  body 
presents  itself  to  him  as  a  terra  incognita,  what  to  do  with  it  he  is  at 
a  complete  loss  to  imagine,  but  it  must  be  carved,  he  has  strength  of 
wrist,  and  he  crashes  through  it  at  the  hazard  of  repeating  the 
mishaps  he  commenced  with.  His  task  over,  he  sits  down  confused 
and  uncomfortable  to  find  his  efforts  have  caused  the  rejection 
of  any  portion  of  the  fowl  he  has  wrenched  asunder  by  those 
who  have  witnessed  his  bungling  attempt,  he  is  disgusted  with  the 
fowl,  himself,  carving,  and  everything  else;  loses  all  enjoyment  for 
his  dinner,  and  during  the  remainder  of  the  evening  cannot  recover 
his  equilibrium. 

He  wdll  possibly  too  have  the  very  questionable  satisfaction  of 
witnessing  an  accomplished  carver  dissect  a  fowl,  he  perceives  with  a 
species  of  wonder  that  he  retains  his  seat,  plants  his  fork  in  the  birdi 
removes  the  wings  and  legs  as  if  by  magic,  then  follows  meny- 
thought  and  neck  bones,  then  the  breast,  away  come  the  two  sides- 
men, and  the  bird  is  dissected ;  all  this  too  is  accomplished  without 
effort  and  with  an  elegance  of  manner  as  surprising  as  captivating ; 
the  pieces  carved  look  quite  tempting,  while  there  is  no  perceptible 
difference  in  the  temperature  of  the  carver,  he  is  as  cool  and  col- 
lected as  ever,  and  assists  the  portions  he  has  carved  with  as  much 
grace  as  he  displayed  in  carving  the  fowl.  The  truth  is,  he  is 
acquainted  with  the  anatomy  of  the  bird,  he  has  felt  the  necessity  of 
acquiring  the  art,  and  has  taken  advantage  of  every  opportuni^ 
which  has  enabled  him  to  perfect  himself  in  the  requisite  knowledge 
to  attain  the  position  at  which  he  has  arrived. 


ON  CAEVING. 


Ladies  oi^ht  especially  to  make  carving  a  study ;  at  their  orni 
houses,  they  grace  the  table  and  ehould  be  enabled  to  perfonn  the 
task  allotted  to  them  with  Euflicient  skill,  to  prevent  remark  or  the 
"^^I'pg  forth  of  eager  proffers  of  assietaiine  from  good  natured  visitors 
Dear,  who  probably  would  not  present  any  better  claim  to  a  neat 
performance. 

Carving  presents  no  difBcuIties ;  it  requires  simply  knowledge. 
All  displays  of  exertion  or  violence  are  in  vety  bad  taste ;  for,  if  not 
proTed  an  evidence  of  the  want  of  ability  ou  the  part  of  tie  carver, 
they  present  a  very  strong  testimony  of  the  toughness  of  a  joint  or 
the  more  than  full  age  of  a  bird;  in  both  cases  they  should  be 
•roided.  A  good  knife  of  moderate  size,  sufficient  lengUi  of  handle, 
and  very  shup,  is  requisite ;  for  a  lady  it  should  be  light,  and 
smaller  than  tlut  used  by  gentlemen.  Fowls  are  very  easily  carved, 
and  joints,  such  as  loins,  breasts,  fore-quarters,  &c.,  the  butcher- 
sbonld  have  strict  injunctions  to  separate  ^e  joiuta  well. 

The  dish  upon  which  the  article  to  be  can-ed  is  placed  should  be- 
conveniently  near  to  the  carver,  so  that  he  has  full  control  over  it;, 
for  if  far  off,  nothing  can  prevent  an  uugracefuluess  of  appearance,. 
Dor  a  difficulty  in  performing  that  which  in  its  proper  place  could  bft  . 
achieved  with  ease. 

In  aerving  fish,  some  nicety  and  care  must  be  eierciaed;  here 
li^tnms  of  hand  and  dexterity  of  management  is  necessary,  and  can 
ouy  be  acquired  by  practice.  The  flakes  which,  in  such  fish  as 
HlmoB  and  cod  are  large,  should  not  be  broken  in  serving,  for  tha 
bean^  of  the  fish  is  then  destroyed,  and  the  appetite  for  it  injured. 
In  addition  to  the  skill  in  the  use  of  the  knife,  there  is  also  required 


18  ON  CAaVIKG. 

(inother  description  of  knowledge,  and  that  is  an  acquaintance  with 
liio  best  parts  of  tli«  joint,  fowl,  or  fish  being  caived.  Thus  in  a 
haunch  of  venison  the  fat,  vihich  is  a  favourite,  must  be  serrad  with 
each  slice;  in  the  shoulder  of  mutton  there  are  some  delicate  cuts  in 
the  under  port.  The  breast  and  \viDgs  arc  the  best  parts  of  a  fowl, 
the  trail  of  a  vroodcock  on  a  toast  is  the  choicest  part  of  the  bird.  lu 
iish  a  part  of  the  roe,  melt,  or  liver  should  aMximpanj  the  piece  of 
fish  served ;  the  list,  however  is  too  numerous  to  mention  here ;  and 
indeei],  the  knowledge  can  only  bo  acquired  by  experience..  In 
large  eetablishmants  the  gross  dishes  are  carved  at  the  bufEat  bj  the 
butler,  bat  in  middle  soclti^  the;  are  placed  upon  the  table.  In  the 
following  directions  accompanied  1^  diagrams,  we  hare  eodeavouFed 
to  be  as  explicit  as  poesible ;  but  viole  &ey  nill  pme  as  brndmaria 
to  the  uuiuitiated,  oe  will  find  that  practice  alnu  viQ  «oable  him 
to  cBxre  with  skill  and  iacility. 

An  Aitch-bokk  or  Bekf. 
This  is  a  simple  joist  to 
car\-e,  but  the  ^cee  from  it 
must  be  cut  quite  even,  and 
of  a  very  toodente  thickness. 
When  the  joint  is  boiled, 
,  before  cutting  to  sen-e,  re- 
e  a  slice  from  the  whole 
■  of  the  npper  part  of  sufficient 
thickness,  say  a  quarter  of  an 
inch,  in  order  to  arrive  at  the 
juit^  part  of  the  meat  at  once.  Carve  from  a  to  n  ;  let  the  slices  be 
moderately  thin — not  too  thin ;  help  tat  with  the  lean  in  one  piece, 
and  give  a  little  additional  fat  which  you  will  find  bebw  c ;  the  solid 
fat  is  at  A.  and  must  be  cut  in  slices  horizontally.  The  roiaid  of  beef 
is  carved  in  the  same  manner. 

Ribs  of  Beef.  There  are  two  modes  of  carving  this  joint ;  the  first, 
which  is  now  becoming  common,  and  is  eaBy  to  an  amateur  carver,  is  to 
cut  across  the  bone  commencing  in  the  centre,  and  serving  fat  from 
A.  as  marked  in  the  engraving  of  the  sirioin,  or  it  shotdd  be  carved 
in  slices  fi-om  a  to  c,  commencing  either  in  the  centre  of  the  joint 
or  at  tbe  sides.  Occasionally  the  bones  are  removed,  and  the  meat 
formed  into  a  fillet ;  it  shouM  then  be  carved  as  a  round  of  beef. 

The  Sibloix  of  Bckf. 
The  under  part  should  be 
first  served,  and  carved 
as  indicated  in  the  en- 
graving, across  the  bone, 
in  carving  the  upper 
part  tbe  same  directions 
should  be  followed  as  for 
I  the  ribs,  carving  either 
side,  or  in  the  centre, 
from  A  to  B,  and  helping 
tbe  £at  from  d. 


ON  CAKViNQ. 


10 


Fillet  of  Veal.  Cut  a  slice 
off  the  whole  of  the  upper  part 
iu  the  same  nay  as  from  a  round 
of  beef,  this  being,  if  ivell  roasted, 
of  a  nice  brown,  should  be  helped 
in  small  pieces  'with  the  slices 
jou  cut  for  each  person.  The 
stuffiog  is  skewered  in  the  Sap, 
and  ivbere  the  boue  comes  out 
there  is  some  placed;  help  this 
with  the  meat  nith  a  piece  of  the 

Neck  of  Veal.  Were 
you  to  attempt  to  cane 
each  chop,  and  servo  it, 
you  would  not  only  place 
a  gigantic  piece  upon  the 
plate  of  the  persou  you 
intended  to  help,  but  you 
would  waste  much  time, 
and  liliould  the  vertehrs 
have  not  been  jointed  by  the  butcher,  you  would  find  yourself  in  tlie 
portion  of  the  ungraceful  carver  being  compelled  to  exercise  a  degree 
of  strength  which  should  never  be  suffered  to  appear,  very  possibly, 
too,  assisting  gravy  In  a  manner  not  contemplated  by  tbe  person  unfor- 
tunate enough  to  receive  it.  Cut  diagonally  from  d  to  a,  and  help  in 
slices  of  moderate  thickness ;  you  can  cut  from  c  to  d  in  order  to 
separate  the  small  bouea,  divide  and  serve  them,  having  first  inquired 
if  they  are  desired. 

The  Bbeabt  of  Teal.  Separate  the  ribs  from  the  brisket,  cut- 
ting  from  A 
small  bones, 
the  sweetest 
chosen,  you 
them  as  at 
serve ;  the 
are  divided 
and  having 
the    prefer- 

person,  help  "«"'  •>'  v«l 

at  good  tables  the  scrag  is  not  served,  but  is  found,  when  properly 
cooked,  a  very  good  stew. 

Loin  of  Ybal.  This  joint  is  sent  to  table  served  as  a  sirloin  of 
beef.  Having  turned  it  over,  cut  out  the  kidney  and  the  fat,  return 
it  to  its  proper  position,  and  carve  it  as  in  the  neck  of  veal,  from  b 
to  A ;  help  with  it  a  slice  of  kidney  and  fet.  The  kidney  is  usually 
placed  upon  a  dry  toast  when  removed  frona  the  joint. 

Shodldeb  of  Veal  is  sent  to  table  with  the  under  part  placed 
Qppermost  Help  it  as  a  shoulder  of  mutton,  begimuDg  at  th« 
knuckle  end. 

C2 


Otf   CASTING. 

Calf's  Head.  There  is 
mnch  more  mrat  to  be  ob- 
tained from  &  cftlf's  head 
bj  earring  it  one  way  thau 
another.  Carve  from  a 
to  S,  cutting  quite  down 
to  the  bone.  At  the 
fieshy  part  of  the  neck 
end  you  will  find  the 
H^o(c«ifiH«ii.  throat    sweetbread   which 

you  can  help  a  slice  of  with  the  other  part;  you  will  remove  the  eye 
with  the  point  of  the  knife  and  divide  it  in  lialf,  helping  those  to  it 
who  profess  a  preference  for  it,  there  rire  some  t^ty,  gelatinous 
pieces  ai'ound  it  which  are  palatable.  Remove  the  jaw  bone,  and 
then  you  will  meet  with  some  fine  flavoured  lean  ;  the  palate,  which 
is  under  tlie  head,  is  by  some  thought  a  dainty  and  should  be  prof- 
fered when  carving. 

~  Leo  ov   Mutton.     The 

under  or  thickest  part  cJ  the 
leg  should  be  placed  upper- 
most and   carved  in  slices 
moderately  thin  from  b  to  c, 
I  Many  persons  have  a  tasrte 
j  for  the  knuckle,  and   this 
'    question    should  he  asked, 
and  if  preferred  should  be 
Lfgofuniton.  Bssisted.      When   cold,    the 

back  of  the  1^  should  be  placed  uppermost,  and  thus  carved ;  if  the 
cramp  bone  is  requested,  and  some  pei-sons  regard  it  as  a  dainty, 
hold  the  shank  with  your  left  hand,  and  insert  your  knife  at  d,  pass- 
ing it  roiuid  to  E,  and  you  viill  remove  iL 

A  Shouu>eb  of  Murroti.  This 
is  a  joint  upon  which  a  great 
diversity  of  opinion  exists,  many 
\  professing  a  species  of  horror  at 
~^  its  insipidity ;  others  finding  much 
dehcacy  of  flavour  in  certain  parts. 
In  good  mutton  there  is  no  doubt 
but  that  if  properly  managed  it  is 
an  excellent  joint,  and  if  judi- 
ciously carved  will  give  sa^fac- 
tion  to  all  who  partake  of  it.  It 
should  be  served  and  eaten  very  hot.  It  is  sent  to  table  lying  on 
the  dish  as  shown  in  the  annexed  engraving.  Commence  camng 
from  A  to  B,  taldng  out  moderately  diin  slices  iu  the  shape  of  a 
wedge;  some  nice  pieces  may  then  be  helped  from  the  blade  bone, 
from  c  to  n,  cutting  on  both  sides  of  the  bone.  Cut  the  fat  from  d. 
carving  it  in  thin  shces.  Some  of  the  most  delicate  parts  however 
lie  on  the  under  part  of  the  shoulder;  take  off  thin  pieces  horizon- 


ox  CABTING, 


21 


tolly  from  b  to  o,  and  from  a; 
some  tender  slices  aie  to  be  met 
^rith  at  D,  but  they  must  be  cut 
through  as  indicated. 

The  shoulder  of  mutton  is  es- 
Beatiatl;  a  joint  of  tit-bits,  and 
1  therefore  ^vhen  carving  it,  th« 
8  of  those  at  table  should  be 
consulted.  It  is  aveiy  insipid 
joint  when  cold,  and  should  there- 
fore be  hashed  if  sent  to  table  a 
second  time. 
The  Loin  of  MvrroN,  if  small,  should  be  carved  in  chops, 
begiuuing  with  the  outer  chop,  if  large,  carve  slices  the  whole 
length.  A  neat  way  is  to  run  the  knife  along  the  chine  bone  and 
under  the  meat  along  the  ribs,  it  may  then  be  cut  in  slices  as  ehonn 
in  the  engraving  of  the  saddle  of  mutton  below ;  b;  this  process  &t 
and  lean  are  served  together  ;  yonr  knife  should  be  very  sharp  and  it 
should  be  done  cleverly. 

Neck  of  MnrroN,  if  the  scrag  and  chine  bone  are  removed,  is 
carved  in  the  direction  of  the  bones. 

The  Sobaq  of  Mumni  should  be  separated  from  the  ribs  of  the 
neck,  and  when  roasted  the  bones  aasbted  vrith  the  meat. 

Saddle  of  Uutiox. 
The  tail  end  is  divi- 
ded in  the  engraving, 
:  and  the  kidneys  ekew- 
■  ered  under  each  divi- 
s  is  a  matter 
of  taste,  and   is  not 
always  done.      Carve 
from  A  to  B  in  thin 
slices,  help  fat  from 
c    to    r.     You  may 
help  from  the  vertebm 
on  both  sides  of  the 
loin,  and  then  carve  croes-wise  as  mailed  in  tfae  engraving,  which  gives 
you  both  fat  and  lean ;  help  a  slice  of  kidney  to  those  who  desire  it. 
Haukch  of  IdtiTiDN  is  caTved  as  kaua^qfvmUon. 

FOBB    QtlARTER 

of  Lamb.  PIocw 
your  fork  near  the 
knuckle  and  cut 
from  A  to  c,  to  U, 
and  on  to  D ;  pass 
your  knife  under, 
lifting  with  the 
fork  at  the   same 


F«  QsuMr  at  Lunb. 


time.     The  juice  of  half  a  lemon  or  Seville  orange  which  has  been 
sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper,  b  then  Bqoecied  tmder  the  ahooldw. 


22  ON  CAKTINO. 

and  a  alice  of  fresh  butter  placed  there  also,  the  ports  an  re-nnited 
until  the  butter  is  melted,  and  the  shoulder  is  then  placed  upon  a 
separate  dish;  separate  the  neck  from  the  ribs,  fi«m  e  to  »,  and 
■"         )  the  palate  of 

Hxjnscn  or  Vam- 
soN.  Have  the  dish 
placed  before  you  bo 
that  the  loin  is  near- 
est to  70U,  and  the 
knuckle  fiuthest,  then 
cut  from  A  to  B,  auffl- 
cientljr  near  the 
knockle  to  prevent  the  escape  of  any  gravy,  then  make  your  first 
cut  from  A  to  c,  with  a  slanting  cut,  and  then  let  each  succeeding 
slice  be  sloping  60  that  all  the  gravy  may  be  retained  in  the  hollow 
thus  formed ;  the  fat  trill  be  found  at  Uie  left  side,  and  most  be 
Berved  with  tbe  meat 

Neck  of  Venison  thould  be  carved  across  the  ribs,  as  in  the  neck 
.  of  veal,  or  length-wise,  frtim  one  end  of  the  neck  to  the  other. 

Kid.  if  kept  until  the  age  at  which  lambs  are  killed,  is  served  and 
carved  in  the  same  manner ;  if  killed  at  a  month  or  five  weeks,  they 
ore  roasted  whole  and  carved  in  the  kitchen. 

PoKK.  Tbe  leg  when  sent  to  table  should  be  placed  with  the  back 
uppermost  and  the  crackling  be  removed ;  if  sufficiently  baked,  this 
may  be  done  with  ease ;  the  meat  should  be  served  in  tbin  slices  cut 
across  the  leg.  the  crackling  being  served  with  it,  or  not,  according 
to  taste  ;  the  loins  are  cut  into  the  pieces  as  scored  by  the  butcher. 
Uau.  It  is  served  aa  placed 
n  the  engraving,  and  should 
come  to  table  ornamented. 
I  Carve  from  a  to  b,  cutting  thin 
'  slices  cut  slantingly,  to  give  & 
wedge-like  appearance.  Those 
who  prefer  the  kock  carve  at  d, 
in  the  snme  direction  as  from 
A  to  B,  then  carve  from  d  to  c, 
in  thin  slices,  as  indicated  in 
the  diagmm. 
BoiLBD  ToKOUE.  Can-e  across  tbe  tongue,  but  do  not  cut 
through;  keep  the  slices  rather  thin,  and  help  the fot  from  underneath. 
Sccmia  Pig.  The  cook 
ahonld  send  a  roast  pig  to  table 
»;^\^  as  displayed  here,  garnished  with 
head  and  ears,  carve  the  joints 
in  the  direction  shown  by  the 
hues  in  the  diagram,  tben  divide 
the  ribs,  serve  with  plenty  of 
sauce;  should  one  of  ^e  joints 
he  too  much  it  xaaj  be  separated; 


ON  CAEVISG.  23 

bresd  sauce  aod  stuffing  should  accompany  it.     An  ear  and  tlte  jaw 
are  EaTourite  parts  \iith  mauf  people. 

Hab><:.  Cut  e1ir«B 
from  B  to  A  of  moderate 
thicksess.  When  the 
hare  is  young  jou  can, 
after  removing  the 
shoulders  and  legs,  cut 
across  the  back,  and 
divide  it  into  several 
pieces;  this  is  not  prac- 
dcahle  ^th  a  full-grown  hare,  imless  it  is  boned,  the  shoulders  and 
l^a  are  easily  removed  by  placing  the  knife  bettveea  them,  and 
turning  them  hack,  the  joint  will  disclose  itself  and  can  then  be 
separated.  The  head  should  not  he  removed  until  the  last,  divide  it 
from  the  neck,  remove  the  lower  jaw,  then  cut  through  the  division 
which  appears  from  the  nose  to  the  top  of  the  skull  and  lay  it  open. 
The  BtuJHng  should  be  given  vrith  whatever  portion  may  be  helped. 
RoisT  Rabbits  are  carved  in  the  same  manner. 

BoiLEb  Rabbit,     Remove 

the  legs  and  shoulders,  they 

very  easily    separate,   divide 

the  back  into  two  parts,  and 

by  holding  the  fork  firmly  in 

tbe   back,   and    passing    the 

knife    undenicatli    near  the 

B.riMB.bUt.  mij^g  ^j  bending  it  back, 

this  is  accomplished  readily.     The  most  tender  part  is  on  the  kins. 

the  meat  there  is  of  a  very  dehcate  flavour,  liver  should  be  helped 

with  it 

Pon.THT,  Poultry  requires  skilful 
aning ;  the  requisites  ore  grace  of 
manner,  ease  in  the  performance,  a 
.  perfect  knoviledge  of  the  position  of 
t  the  joints,  and  the  most  complete  mode 
of  dissecting,  so  as  to  obtain  the  lai^est 
quantily  of  meat.  In  no  case  is  this 
ability  more  demanded  than  in  cni-ving 
B  Roost  Turkey.  Unless  this  is  done  well,  there  is  not  ouly  mucli 
waste,  but  the  appearance  of  the  turkey  is  spoiled.  You  will  com- 
mence by  carving  slices  from  each  aide  of  the  breast,  in  tho  same 
directions  as  the  lines  marited  in  the  engraving,  cutting  Irom  a  to  B. 
Kow  remove  the  legs,  dividing  the  thighs  from  the  drumsticks,  and 
here  an  instrument  termed  a  di^ointer  will  be  found  serviceable,  for 
Dnless  the  turkey  be  very  yoong,  and  the  union  of  the  joints  very 
■ecunttely  taken,  dislocation  becomes  difficult:  the  disjointer  effects 
the  separation  at  once,  and  it  possesses  also  the  advantages  of 
aoabling  the  carver  to  divide  a  thigh  into  two,  thus  permitldng  a  less 
bol^  portion  of  a  part  much  esteemed  to  be  served.  The  piniona 
■nd  that  portion  of  the  body  renuned  with  it,  are  always  a  delicacy, 
and  care  should  be  taken  to  carve  them  nicely ;  the  joint  of  the 


BsutTBtkv. 


24 


ON  CABVIKO. 


pinion  will  be  found  at  b.     The  stuffing,  whether  truffles  or  whateyer 
it  may  be  made  of,  you  will  obtain  by  making  an  opening  at  c. 

Boiled  Tubkev  b  trussed  in  a  dif- 
ferent fashion  to  the  roast,  but  the  same 
directions  given  fur  the  flist  applies  to 
the  second.     The  legs  in  the    boiled 
i  tui^y  being  drawn  into  the  body  may 
'  cause  some  little  difficulty  at  fiist  in 
their  separation,  but  a  little  practice  will 
soon  surmount  it. 
TrKKEY  Poults.    Refer  to  directions  for  carving  pheasanta. 

Roast  Fowl.  This  operation  is  a 
nice  and  skilful  one  to  perfbnn.  it 
requires  both  obserration  and  practice. 
Insert  the  knife  between  the  legs  and 
■  the  side,  press  hack  the  leg  with  th« 
blade  of  the  knife,  and  the  joint  will 
disclose  itself:  if  young  it  will  port,  but 
at  best,  if  judiciously  managed,  will 
require  but  a  nick  where  the  joints  unite.  Remove  your  wing  from 
D  to  D,  cut  through  and  lay  it  back  as  with  the  leg,  separating  tha 
joint  with  the  edge  of  your  knife,  remove  the  merrythought  and  neck 
bonea  next,  this  you  will  accomplish  by  inaerting  the  knife  and 
forcing  it  under  the  bones,  nuse  it  and  it  will  readily  sepotste  from 
the  breast.  You  will  divide  ^e  breast  irom  the  body  by  cutting 
through  the  small  ribs  down  to  the  vent,  turn  the  back  uppermoet, 
now  put  your  knife  into  about  the  centre  between  the  neck  and 
rump,  raise  the  loiver  part  firmly  yet  gently,  it  will  easily  separate, 
turn  the  neck  or  rump  from  you,  take  off  the  side  bones  and  the  fowl 
is  carved. 


In  separating  the  thigh  from  the 
knife  exactly  at  the  joint  ~ 
engraving,  this  however  will 
for  the  joint  must  be  ac- 
difficulty  will  be  experienced 
sunder.  There  is  no  dif- 
and  boiled  fowls  if  full 
fowl  when  roasted,  the 
The  winga  and  breast  are  in 
leg  of  a  young  fowl  is  an 
when  veiy  fine  and  roasted, 
from  the  breast. 


drumstick,  you  must  insert  the 
as  we  have  indicated  in  ths 
be  found  to  require  practice, 
curately  hit,  or  else  much 
in  getting  the  parts  a- 
ference  in  carving  roast 
grown ;  but  in  a  very  young 
breast  is  served  whole, 
the  highest  favour,  but  the 
excellent  part.  Capons 
should  have  slices  coired 


ON  CAEVINS. 


25 


Geese.  Follow  with  your  koife  the 
lines  mariied  in  the  engraving,  a  to  n, 
and  cut  slices,  then  remove  die  wing, 
and  if  the  partf  be  large  the  legs  must 
also  be  removed,  and  here  the  dt^ointer 
will  again  pro.ve  servicoable.  The 
stuffing,  as  in  the  turkey,  will  be 
obtained  by  making  an  insertion  at  the 


pHZABAitT.  Clear  the  leg  by  inserting  the 
edge  of  the  knife  between  it  and  the  body,  then 
take  off  the  wings,  b  to  a,  but  do  not  remove 
much  of  the  breast  with  them,  you  are  thus  ena- 
bled to  obtain  some  nice  slices ;  the  pheasant  ia 
then  carred  as  a  fowl.  The  breast  is  first  in 
estimation,  then  the  wings,  end  after  these  tbs 
merry-though^  lovers  of  game  prefer  a  leg. 


OuixKA  Fowl  are  nin-ed  in  the  same  manner. 

Partridoe.     Separate    the   legs,   and  then 

divide  the  bird  into  three  parts,  leaving  each  leg 

and  wing  together.     The  breast  is  then  divided 

from  the  ba^  and  helped  whole,  the  latt«r  being 

assisted  with  any  of  the  other  parts.     When  the 

party  consists  entirely  of  gentlemen  only,  the 

bird  is  divided  into  two  by  cutting  right  throi^h 

•"•""Ws^  from  the  vent  to  the  neck. 

Quails,  Lakdhaii,  Wheat-eabs,  Labks,  and  all  small  birds  are 

served  whole. 

GsorsE  AND  Ploveb  are  carved  as  partridges. 
Snipe  and  Woodcock  are  divided  into  two  parts ;  the  trail  being 
served  on  a  toast. 

WiLD-DDCK  AND  WmaBON.  The  breast  of  these  fowls  being  th« 
best  portion  ia  carved  in  slices,  which,  being  removed,  a  glass  of  old 
port  made  hot  is  poured  in,  the  half  of  a  lemon  seasoned  with  cay- 
enne and  salt,  should  then  be  squeezed  in  the  slices,  relaid  in  their 
places,  and  then  served,  the  joints  being  removed  the  same  as  in 
other  fowl. 


FioEoN.  Like  woodcock,  these 
birds  aro  cut  in  half,  through  the 
breast  and  back,  and  helped. 


ON  OABTIITO. 


Fiab  ahonld  aever  be  carved  with  steel;  assisting  requiraB  mora 
care  them  knowledge ;  the  prindpal  caution  is  to  avoid  breaking  tbe 
"  '         '  —  ing   a  piece   of 

engraved,       cut 
from  A  to  B,  and 
^^^  pieces  of  the  M- 

■it^"r^^^^*W^p  tion         marked 

I'™' ^^  -s^y^    best  flavoured  is 

idJii-  cui  or  'a\r\ou.  thick  part. 


flakes.  In  carv- 
salmon  ss  here 
thin  slices,  as 
help  ivith  it 
1;  iu  the  direo- 
from  c  to  n ;  the 
the      upper    or 

TnanoT.  Cut 
marked  in  the 
out  moving  the 
which  is  esteemed 
ways  served  with 
All  flat  fish,  such 
John-doiy,  fiA.  are 
same  manner : 
either  in  halves, 
are  divided  into 
right  through.     FlouDdere  are  served  wl 

Cod's  Head  and  Shodldebs.     Carry  the  knife  from  A  to  b,  and 
line  to  c,  help 


Many    choice 
dish,  and  by 

600B  SJ 

the  parts  preferred.  The  jaw-bone  from  its  gelatinous  nature  is 
flonsidered  by  somo  a  dnintj.  and  the  head  generally,  including  ejea 
and  palate,  is  a  favourite  ivith  many. 

Haddock.  It  is  dressed  whole,  unless  unusually  large.  Wheo 
sent  to  table  it  is  split  its  whole  letigth,  and  served  one-half  the  head 
to  the  tail  of  the  other  part;  it  is  carved  across. 


OK  CABVIKQ. 


27 


Hacserel  should  always  bo  sent  to  table  bead  to  toil,  divide  the 

meat    from    the  .^/—i^^^     ""      T  *»— .^  *>o"*  ^7  cutting 

dowD    the    back  Jf^^^^^^^^^^Kj^l^^  leii^-nise,    the 

upper  part  is  the  ijj^^H^^^^^II^I^^^^B^  best.    All  small 

fisb,  Buch  as  pU-  1  ^^^BK^^^^^^^SBt i  cfaards,  herriogs, 

smelta,    mullela,  ^^^^S^Sbm^^P^M.  ^°-t   ^^    serred 
whole. 


Whitihos  when  fried  have  the  tail  passed  tbro 
the  eyes,  and  fastened.     They  are  eaten  thus. 

Jack  or  Pise  ore  served  in  many  ways.     When    | 
baked  the  back  and  belly  should  be  slit  up,  and  each 
sUce  gently  dravm  downwards,  by  this  means  fewer 
bones  will  be  given.  Fiied  wtiuiw. 

However  accurate  may  be  our  descriptions,  yet  like  all  others  of 
this  kind,  the  true  elements  of  success  will  be  found  in  practice. 
Carve  at  home  when  practicable,  and  out  also,  bearing  in  mind  th9 
rules  given,  exerting  a  degree  of  self-confidence,  remembering  as  an 
adage,  that  elegance,  not  strength,  is  required  to  carve  well. 


A  Bullock  nailed  u  cut  into  joints  by  Ihe  Balehcr. 


A  Sirloin. 

K  Fore  Ribs,  contninin^;  fi>o  rib^ 

B  Rump. 

L  Middle  Rib,  cuiiCaining  foui  riht 

C  Aitchbone, 

H  Chuck  Rib,  coDtaioinK  Ihree  rih 

D  Buttock. 

N  Shoulder,  or  Leg  of  Mutton  i.i 

E  MouK  Buttock. 

0  Briikct. 

P  Vfinv  Piecp. 

P  Ctod. 

G  Thkk  FUnk. 

Q  Neck,  or  Sticking  Piece. 

H  Thin  Flunk. 

R  Shin. 

1  w. 

S  Cheek. 

Unm  of  bMf  i.  rorneJ  of  the  pLc 

■ei  muiked  A,  B,  rnutwl  on  bolb  lid 

ON  OABTINO. 


The  calf  ii  dirided  into  j<unti  bf  the  batcber,  upon  a  tjtteai  vhicb  unita  t 
methodi  emplojed  fijt  cutting  up  both  beef  end  mutton. 

A  The  Loin  fbect  end).  I  F  Neck  (beet  end}.] 

B  The  Linn  [chump  ati).  G  Neck  (Krag). 

C  The  FiUet.  H  Blade  Bone. 

D  The  Hind  KnncMe.  I    BmK  (bcM  ead). 

E  The  Fore  KnacUe.  |  K  Breut  (Biidiet). 

pobk: 


The  Pig  ii  thui  diiided  :— 

A  The  Fore  Loin.  1  C  The  Bell*,  or  Spiiafc 

B  The  Hind  Loin.  |  D  The  Hand. 

E  The  L^. 

The  ipare  rib  !•  under  the  gboulder,  which,  when  lanoTod  in  a  porktt,  Imt* 
part  oTthe  neck  without  a  ilcin  ■■   -      -      ..  ..      ~    i      .  . 

liked  b/  manj,  and  BppMii  at 


The  Sheep  b  Ihui  apportioned  b;  Engli«h  butchcn. 


A  TheL<«. 
B  Loin  (the  beM  end). 
C  Loin  (chump  end). 
D  NMk  <bMt  wkI). 


E  Neck  (icnf  Md). 
F  ShouJder. 
G  Brcaat. 


ON  CABVINO. 


29 


The  saddle  originallj  was  formed  of  the  two  necks,  it  is  now  the  two  loins. 
The  chine  is  the  union  of  the  two  necks,  but  it  is  rerj  nrelj  seen  at  table. 

The  Scotch  plan  of  earring  mutton  carcasses,  acoordingto  a  veiy  able  article  on 
domestic  economj»  published  by  Messrs.  Chambers  of  Edinburgh,  differs  some* 
what  from  our  own,  as  will  be  seen  by  the  accompanying  diagrams. 

EngUah  mods.  Seoteb  mode. 


In  the  English  mode,  A  marked  in 
a  circle  is  the  shoulder,  separated  from 
the  neck  and  breast ;  B,  the  scrag  end 
of  the  neck,  C  is  the  best  end,  D  is  the 
breast,  £  the  loin,  and  F  the  leg,  which, 
when  formed  with  £,  makes  the  haunch. 

In  the  Scotch  mode,  A  is  the  leg,  B 
the  loin,  which,  with  the  leg,  forms  the 
hind  quarter  ;  C  is  the  back  rib,  and  D 
the  breast ;  C  and  D  form  the  fore 
quarter;  the  dotted  line  across  the 
body  denotes  where  the  fore  and  hind 
quarters  divide. 


VENISON. 


A  Haunch.  I  C  Shoulder. 

B  Neck.  I  D  Breast. 

Bock  and  Doe  Venison  are  cut  up  in  a  similar  fkshion. 


30  TO  CHOOSE  MEATS. 


TO  CHOOSE  MEATS. 

Ybhisoit. — The  choice  of  venifion  should  be  regulated  by  the 
Appearance  of  the  fat,  which,  when  the  venison  is  young,  looks 
bright,  thick,  clear,  and  close.  It  first  changes  tow^^ds  the 
haunches.  To  ascertain  whether  it  is  sweet,  run  a  knife  into  that 
part ;  if  tainted  it  will  hare  a  rank  smelL  It  should  not  be  cooked 
if  too  high. 

Beef. — ^True,  well-fed  beef  may  be  known  by  the  texture  and 
colour ;  the  lean  will  exhibit  an  open  grain  of  ^eep  coral-red,  and 
the  fat  will  appear  of  a  healthy,  oily  smoothness,  rather  inclining 
to  white  than  yellow.  The  suet  firm  and  white.  Yellow  fat  is  a 
test  of  meat  of  an  inferior  quality.  Heifer  beef  is  but  little  in- 
ferior te  ox  beef;  the  lean  is  of  a  closer  grain,  the  red  paler,  and 
the  fat  whiter.  Cow  beef  may  be  detected  by  the  same  sigm^ 
fiave  that  the  older  the  beast  the  texture  of  the  meat  will  appear 
closer,  and  the  flesh  coarser  to  the  sight,  as  well  as  harder  to  the 
touch.  Scoteh  cattle,  bred  in  English  pastures,  produce  the  best 
beef.  The  Devon  and  Hereford  stock  affords  good  beef;  the  Lin- 
colnshire breed  will  not  bear  comparison  with  it. 

Veal. — ^When  you  observe  the  kidney  well  surrounded  with  fat, 
you  may  be  sure  the  meat  is  of  a  good  quality.  The  whitest  is  not 
the  best  veal ;  l^ut  the  flesh  of  the  bull-calf  is  a  brighter  colour  than 
that  of  the  cow-calf.  The  fillet  of  the  latter  is  generally  preferred, 
on  account  of  the  udder.  There  is  a  vein  in  the  shoulder  very 
perceptible ;  and  its  colour  indicates  the  freshness  of  the  meat ;  if 
a  bright  red  or  blue,  it  is  recently  killed ;  if  any  green  or  yellow 
spots  are  visible,  it  is  stale.  The  suet  will  be  flabby,  and  the 
kidney  wiU  smell. 

Mutton. — The  best  is  of  a  fine  grain,  a  bright  colour,  the  fat  firm 
and  white.  It  is  better  for  being  full-grown.  The  meat  of  the  ewe 
is  not  so  bright,  while  the  grain  is  closer.  The  ram  mutton  may 
be  known  by  the  redness  of  the  flesh,  and  the  sponginess  of  the 
fat. 

Lamb  should  be  eaten  very  &esh.  In  the  fore  quarter,  the  vein 
in  the  neck  being  any  other  colour  than  blue  betrays  it  to  be  stale. 
In  the  hind  quarter,  try  the  kidney  with  your  nose ;  the  fSuntness 
of  its  smell  will  prove  it  to  be  stale. 

PoBK. — In  young  pork  the  lean  when  pinched  will  break ;  the 
thickness  and  toughness  of  the  rind  shows  it  to  be  old.  In  fresh 
pork  the  flesh  is  firm,  smooth,  a  clear  color,  and  the  fat  set  When 
fitale  it  looks  clammy  and  flabby.  Measly  pork  may  be  detected 
by  the  kernels  in  the  fat ;  it  should  not  be  eaten.  Dairy-fed  pork 
bears  the  palm  over  all  others. 

BACOif. — Excellent  young  bacon  may  be  thus  known : — ^the 
lean  will  be  tender  and  of  a  bright  colour ;  the  fat  firm  and  white, 
yet  bearing  a  pale  rose  tinge ;  the  rind  thin,  and  the  lean  tender 
to  the  touch.    lELusty  bacon  has  yellow  streaks  in  it. 


TO  CHOOSE  FISH.  31 


Hams. — ^The  test  of  a  sweet  ham  is  to  pass  a  sharp  knife  to  the 
bone,  and  when  drawn  out  smell  it ;  if  the  knife  is  daubed  greasy, 
and  the  scent  disagreeable,  it  is  bad.  A  good  ham  will  present  an 
agreeable  smell  when  the  knife  is  withdrawn. 

POULTET  Am)  GAME,  TO  CHOOSE. 

TuBKBT. — The  cock  bird  when  young  has  a  smooth  black  leg 
with  a  short  spur.  The  eyes  bright  and  full,  and  moist  supple  feet 
when  fresh ;  the  absence  of  these  signs  denotes  age  and  staleness; 
the  /ten  may  be  judged  by  the  same  rules. 

PowLS  like  a  turkey ;  the  young  cock  has  a  smooth  leg  and  a 
short  spur ;  when  fresn  the  vent  is  close  and  dark.  Hens  when 
young  have  smooth  legs  and  combs;  when  old  these  will  be  rough; 
a  go(^  capon  has  a  thick  belly  and  large  rump,  a  poll  comb  and  a 
swelling  breast. 

€r££S£. — ^In  young  geese  the  feet  and  bills  will  be  yellow  and 
free  from  hair.  When  fresh  the  feet  are  pliable ;  they  are  stiff 
when  stale. 

Ducks  may  be  selected  by  the  same  rules. 

PieEONS,  when  fresh,  have  supple  feet,  and  the  vent  will  be  firm ; 
if  discoloured  and  supple  they  are  stale. 

FLOTXBfl,  when  fat,  nave  hard  vents ;  but,  Uke  almost  all  other 
birds,  may  be  chosen  by  the  above  rules.  'i^*^-^*^ 

Hasss. — liVlien  a  hare  is  young  and  fresh,  the  deft  in  the  lip  is 
narrow,  the  body  stiff,  the  ears  tear  easily,  and  the  claws  are 
smooth  and  sharp ;  and  old  and  stale  hares  wiU  be  the  opposite 
of  this.    Babbits  the  same. 

Pabtb£do£s. — ^Yellow  legs  and  a  dark  bill  are  signs  by  which  a 
young  bird  may  be  known,  and  a  rigid  vent  when  fresh.  When  this 
part  IS  green  the  bird  is  stale. 

Ykkabastq  may  be  chosen  as  above ;  the  young  birds  are  known 
by  the  short  or  round  spur,  which  in  the  old  is  long  and  pointed. 

MoOB  Gai£E. — Grouse,  Woodcocks^  SnipeSy  Quails^  Ortolans^ 
Ac,  may  be  chosen  by  the  rules  above  given. 

TO  CHOOSE  PISH, 

TuBBOT. — ^When  good  are  thick,  and  the  belly  is  white  with  a 
faint  yellow  tinge. 

SjLLMOsr. — The  fish  stiff,  the  scales  very  bright,  the  belly  thick, 
the  gills  a  brilliant  colour,  and  the  flesh  when  cut  a  beautiful  red, 
will  prove  it  to  be  a  fine  fresh  fish.    It  cannot  be  too  fresh. 

Cod. — ^The  best  fish  are  thick  at  the  neck,  very  red  gins,  firm 
white  flesh,  bright,  and  blood-shot  eyes,  and  small  head. 

Skjlte. — ^The  finest  have  very  thick  bodies,  and  should  be  veiy 
white. 

HfBBi^GS. — ^Very  red  gills,  blood-shot  eyes,  very  bright  scales, 
and  the  fish  stiff,  shows  them  to  be  good  and  fresh. 

Soles. — ^Thick  bodies,  the  bellies  of  a  creamy  white,  show  them 


32  TO  CHOOSE  FISH. 


to  be  good :  a  flabby  sole,  with  a  pale  blue  tinge  on  the  bell j, 
should  be  avoided. 

Flounders  maj  be  chosen  as  above. 

Whitings. — A  clear  colour  and  Arm  bodies,  indicate  a  superior 
quality. 

Mackerel. — Bright  eyes,  thick  bodies,  the  prismatic  colours 
very  predominant  on  the  belly,  denote  freshness  and  goodness. 

Pike,  Carp,  Tench,  Perch,  Smelts,  Gudgeons,  &c.,  may  be 
judged  by  the  above  ndes. 

Mullet. — The  red  are  preferred  to  the  grey,  and  the  sea  to  the 
river.    They  are  a  delicious  fish  when  properly  cooked. 

Eels. — The  Thames,  or  silver  eel,  are  the  best ;  the  Dutch  are 
not  good ;  the  bright  silver-hued  belly  and  thickness  of  back,  are 
the  guides  in  their  selection. 

SHELL  nSH. 

Lobsters. — To  be  had  in  perfection  should  be  boiled  at  home ; 
choose  the  heaviest.  When  they  are  boiled  the  tail  should  have  a 
good  spring ;  the  cock  lobster  has  a  narrow  tail  in  which  the  two 
uppermost  fins  are  stiff  and  hard ;  the  hen  has  a  broad  tail,  and 
these  fins  are  softer.  The  male  Ims  the  best  flavour ;  the  flesh  is 
firmer,  and  the  colour  when  boiled  is  brighter  than  the  hen. 

Crabs,  like  lobsters,  should  be  selected  by  weight;  when  prime 
the  leg-joints  are  stiff  and  the  scent  pleasant. 

Prawns  and  Shrimps  should  be  bright  and  the  bodies  firm  and 
stiff;  when  they  are  limp  and  soft  they  are  stale. 

Oysters. — There  are  many  sorts  of  oysters ;  when  the  oyster 
is  alive  the  shell  will  close  upon  the  knife ;  the  common  oyster 
should  be  used  for  sauce,  and  the  natives,  of  which  there  are 
several  kinds,  should  be  sent  to  table. 


remarks  on  table  knives. 

The  same  rule  applies  to  Table  Cutlery  as  to  all  other  cutting 
instruments,  viz.,  that  they  must  be  frequently  sharpened.  A  servant 
who  understands  knife-cleaning,  will,  before  taking  them  off  the 
board,  draw  them  briskly  a  few  times  from  back  to  edge  (raising  the 
back  a  little)  first  on  one  side,  then  on  the  other,  and  thus  produce  an 
excellent  edge ;  whereas  a  clumsy  inexperienced  hand  wUl  (by  not 
holding  them  flat  on  the  board)  contrive  to  give  the  best  steel  a  dull 
edge.  Hence  the  necessity  of  an  efficient  steel,  in  using  which,  care 
should  be  taken  to  raise  the  back  of  the  knife  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
from  the  steel.  Ser^'ants  are  apt,  in  cleaning  knives,  to  allow  the 
arm  to  take  its  natural  ball  and  socket,  or  half-circular  movement, 
this  of  course,  must  completely  round  and  thicken  the  edge  and  vear 
the  back.  Strict  injunctions  should  be  given  to  keep  the  knife  always 
flat  on  the  board.  The  best  knives  when  new,  wUl  not  cut,  unless 
the  above  directions  are  strictly  enforced. 


ABTICLES  IN  8EA80N«  33 


ARTICLES  FOR  THE  TABLE 

IN  SEASON  FOR  EACH  MONTH  OF  THE  YEAR, 


JANUABT. 


Meats. — ^Beef,  mutton,  veal,  pork,  house-lamb. 

Poultry. — Pheasants,  partrioges,  hares,  rabbits,  woodcocks, 
snipes,  turkeys,  pullets,  capons,  fowls,  and  pigeons. 

iish. — Oysters,  prawns,  crabs,  lobsters,  cray-fish,  whitings, 
smelts,  sturgeon,  skate,  turbot,  plaice,  thomback,  flounders, 
perch,  tench,  and  carp. 

Vegetables. — Cabbage  and  sprouts,  sorrel,  endive,  spinach,  beet- 
root, celery,  scorzanera,  potatoes,  parsnips,  turnips,  broccoli 
shalots,  lettuces,  cresses,  salsify,  cucumbers,  and  asparagus;  mush- 
rooms all  the  year. 

Fruits. — Pears,  apples,  nuts,  grapes,  medlars,  and  walnuts. 


FEBEUABT  aitd  MAECH. 

All  meats  and  game  as  in  the  former  month,  with  the  addition  of 
chickens  and  ducklings. 

Fish, — ^Exactly  as  hat  month,  excepting  cod,  which  is  not  sup- 
posed to  be  quite  so  good,  up  to  July. 

Vegetables. — Just  the  same  as  the  previous  month,  only  now 
you  have  kidney  beans. 

Fruits. — ^Apples  and  pears,  and  forced  strawberries. 


APBIL,  MAT,  AiTD  JUNE— Okb  Quabteb. 

Meats. — ^Beef,  mutton,  veal,  lamb,  and  in  Jttsob  venison. 

Poultry. — Pullets,  fowls,  chickens,  ducklings,  -pigeons,  rabbits, 
and  leverets. 

Vegetables  as  before,  only  in  Mat  early  potatoes,  peas,  rad- 
ishes, French  beans,  early  cabbages,  carrots  and  turmps,  cauli- 
flowers, asparagus,  artichokes,  and  all  kinds  of  salad,  but  this  is 
forced. 

Fruits. — In  Juke,  strawberries,  cherries,  melons,  green  apricots, 
currants,  and  gooseberries  for  tarts  only. 

i^wA.— Carp,  soles,  tench,  smelts,  eels,  trout,  turbot,  lobsters, 
chub,  salmon,  herrings,  cray-fish,  mackerel,  crabs,  prawns,  and 
shrimps. 

]> 


34  AftnCLEB  IN  fiEASOK. 

-■■----  -  •  ' 

JULY,  AUaUST,  AKD  SEPTEMBEE.— Secoto  Qtjabtxb. 

Meats, — These  are  not  different  from  the  former,  months,  ex- 
cept Pork,  which  commences  in  September. 

Poultry, — Pullets,  fowls,  chickens  and  rabbits,  pigeons  and  green 
geese,  leverets,  turkeys,  poults,  the  two  former  months ;  wheatears 
and  geese  in  SeptemDer. 

Fish. — Cod,  haddocks,  flounders,  skate,  thomback,  mullet,' pike 
and  carp,- eels  and  shell  fish,  but  no  oysters ;  mackerel  in  July,  it 
is  not  so  good  in  August. 

Vegetables, — All  as  the  previous  months ;  peas  and  beans. 

Fruits, — July,  strawberries,  gooseberries,  pine  apples,  plums  of 
all  kinds,  cherries,  apricots,  raspberries,  melons,  damsons,  white 
and  red  currants,  pears,  apples,  grapes,  nectarines,  and  peaches. 

In  August  and  September  peacnes,  plumbs,  filberts,  figs,  mul- 
berries, cherries,  apples  and  pears,  nectarines,  grapes,  pines  and 
melons,  strawberries. 


OCTOBER. 

.   Meats  do  not  differ,  this  is  the  season  for  good  doe  venison. 

Poultry  and  Game, — Fowls  of  all  kinds  as  the  former  quarter, 
pheasants  from  the  1st  October,  partridges,  larks,  hares,  wild 
ducks ;  late  in  the  month,  teal,  snipes,  widgeon,  and  grouse. 

Fish, — Dories,  smelts,  pike,  perch,  halibuts,  briUs,  carp,  «MvlmoP, 
trout,  barbel  gudgeon,  tench,  au  shell  fish. 

Vegetables  are  now  as  in  January  month. 

Fruits, — Peaches,  pears,  figs,  bullaces,  grapes,  apples,  medlars, 
damsons,  filberts,  walnuts,  nuts,  quinces. 


XOVEMBEE. 

Meats. — Beef,  mutton,  veal,  pork,  house  lamb,  doe  vension. 
Poultry^  game,  Jish^  vegetables,  and  fruits. — ^As  the  last  month. 


DECEMBER. 

Meats  as  the  former  month. 

Poultry, — Geese,  turkeys,  pullets,  pigeons,  capons,  fowls,  rab- 
bits, hares,  snipes,  woodcocks,  larks,  pheasants,  sea-fowls,  Guinea 
fowls,  wild  ducks,  teal,  widgeon,  grouse,  and  dunbirds. 

Vegetables, — As  in  the  last  month. 

Ptsh. — Turbot,  gurnets,  soles,  sturgeon,  carp,  gudgeon,  eels, 
codlings,  dories,  and  shell  fish  of  all  kinds. 


MEAT  8ourp«  33 


CHAPTER  II. 

MEAT  SOUPS. 

There  is  no  dish,  perhaps,  that  comes  to  table  which  gives  such 
general  satisfaction  as  well  prepared  soup ;  let  the  appetite  be  vigorous ' 
or  refined,  an  excellent'soup  will  always  prove  grateful  to  it ;  and  as 
this  is  beyond  contradiction,  it  should  be  the  province  of  the  cook  to 
be  always  in  a  position  to  produce  it  at  a  short  notice. 

There  should  always  be  plenty  of  dried  herbs  in  the  store  closet ; 
these  may  be  purchased  chiefly  in  quantities  at  the  beginning  of  the 
autumn  of  any  market-gardener,  and  kept  at  hand ;  Franklin  tells 
us  that  **  everything  should  have  its  place,  and  there  should  he  a 
place  for  everything."  The  multiplicity  of  articles  required  by  a 
cook  should  induce  her  to  bear  this  maxim  in  mind.  Herbs  may  be 
very  well  kept,  as  indeed,  they  are  usually,  in  paper  bags ;  they 
should  be  all  labelled.  When  time  is  an  important  object  the  neces- 
sity for  this  is  obvious — they  are  always  to  be  had  when  wanted,  and 
the  bag  should  be  immediately  replaced  after  using. 

There  should  be  a  saucepan,  or  kettle  of  iron  well  tinned,  kept  for 
soup  only ;  we  think  the  engraved  specimen  the  best :  remember,  the 
lid  should  Jit  tightly;  there  are  several  kinds,  but  the  one  we  have  given 
will  be  found  to  answer  all  purposes,  being  especially  useful  as  a 
"  stock-pot."  The  inexperienced  reader  will  understand  by  the  term 
'*  stock-pot,"  that  soups  being  of  two  kinds,  brown  and  white,  have 
different  foundations,  that  of  brown  being  always  beef,  and  that  of 
white,  veal;  there  are  many  ingredients  in  each,  and  it  is  the 
various  articles  which,  when  put  together,  are  called  **  stock,"  hence 
the  soup  utensil  is  technically  termed  the  stock-pot. 


1. — STOCK  FOR  BROWN  SOUP. 

Firstly,  let  the  kettle  in  which  the  soup  is  to  be  prepared,  be 
perfectly  clean  and  dry;  the  hands  of  the  cook  should  be  so  likewise : 
then  take  about  a  pound  of  beef,  which  should  be  lean,  and  may  be 
either  shin,  leg,  ox-cheek,  or  from  the  clod,  indeed  from  any  of  the 
inferior  parts,  always  remembering  it  must  be  lean ;  cut  it  in  slices, 
and  place  at  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan  with  a  tolerable  sized  pieco 
of  salt  butter,  and  a  little  water  to  prevent  burning,  but  let  the 
quantity  be  small,  the  less  the  better :  add  a  piece  of  lean  bacon  cut 
in  slices  also;  if  the  quantity  of  stock  be  large,  about  a  fourth  the 
quantity  of  the   bacon   to   the    beef   will  suffice,  but  when   the 

D  2 


36  MEAT  SOUPS. 


quantity  of  beef  is  small,  the  proportion  of  bacon  should  be  nearly 
equal;  cover  the  lid  down  close,  and  extract  the  gravy,  permit 
it  nearly  all  to  re-enter  the  meat,  and  then  pour  sufEcient  boiling 
water — it  must  be  boiling,  for  the  quantity  of  soup  required, 
adding  two  or  three  onions  if  small,  sweet  herbs  cut  small,  with 
a  few  cloves,  and  et  it  stew  slowly  for  four  or  five  hours,  proper- 
tionably  to  the  quantity  of  meat ;  the  greater  the  quantity  of  meat 
the  longer  the  time  required  to  stew.  When  the  meat  is  quite  tender 
this  will  form  the  foundation  for  all  the  best  brown  soups ;  this,  if 
well  done,  makes  a  delicious  gravy  soup ;  if  it  should  require  brown- 
ing, refer  to  the  receipt  for  colouring  soups  and  gravies. 

Stock,  in  its  composition,  is  not  confined  to  the  above  receipt; 
any  meats  or  bones,  stewable,  will  be  useful  in  the  stock-pot ;  pieces 
of  beef,  from  any  part,  from  which  gravy  can  be  extracted,  bones, 
shin-bones,  brisket-bones,  tops  of  ribs,  ox-cheek,  pieces  of  mutton, 
baeon,  ham,  bones  of  either  legs,  heads  of  fowls,  geese,  or  turkeys, 
veal,  knuckle,  or  other  parts,  game,  hare,  pheasant,  partridges,  if 
they  be  old  and  fit  for  no  other  purpose ;  indeed,  anything  which  is 
fit  and  proper  to  be  eaten  in  the  form  of  animal  food,  and  in  any 
degree  resolvable  into  a  jelly,  will  assist  in  making  stock. 

To  this  medley  of  ingredients,  which  it  will  be  found  on  trial  will 
produce  the  best  soup  that  can  be  made,  add  carrots  cut  in  thin 
slices,  herbs,  onions,  pepper,  and  salt ;  when  it  has  stewed  slowly 
for  a  short  time,  pour  in  the  boiling  water  in  proportion  to  the  quan* 
tity  of  meat  and  soup  required ;  then  stew  it  until  it  is  of  a  rich 
consistency,  take  it  from  the  fire,  let  it  cool,  remove  the  pot.  If 
required  the  following  day,  care  should  be  taken  that  the  deposit  or 
sediment  is  removed,  as  also  the  fat  previous  to  warming ;  if  kept 
long  the  pans  must  be  changed ;  there  is  as  much  danger  in  red 
glazed  earthenware  as  in  metal  pans;  the  latter  should  never  be 
employed  to  keep  gravies  in,  if  possible.  Wherever  greater  richness 
is  required,  it  may  be  obtained  by  the  addition  of  the  jelly  of  cow- 
heel,  or  a  lump  of  butter  and  flour. 

Remember,  soup  is  richer  and  better  for  being  made  the  previous 
day,  or  even  two  or  three  days  previously  to  its  being  required,  if  it 
be  warmed  each  day ;  to  be  really  good  it  must  be  well  stewed. 


2.—  STOCK  FOR  WHITE  SOUPS. 

This  is  a  soup,  the  foundation  of  which  is  veal,  the  knuckle,  the 
scrag,  or  calf  s  head  being  tlie  best  meat  for  the  purpose,  an  old  fowl, 
a  little  ham,  or  bacon,  mutton,  sheep's  head,  &c.,  nearly  the  same 
ingredients  as  for  brown  soups,  save  that  there  must  not  be  much 
beef,  and  the  proportion  of  ham  and  bacon  smaller  in  the  latter  than 
former,  and  when  made  for  white  sauce,  care  must  be  taken  to  leave 
out  the  pepper. 

3. — ^WHITE  SOUP. 

General  directions  for  white  stock  have  been  given  above,  but  to 
prevent  mistake,  take  a  knuckle  of  veal,  separated  into  three  or  four 


M£AT  80UP8.  37 


pieces,  a  slice  of  ham  as  lean  as  possible,  a  few  onions,  thyme,  cloves, 
and  mace,  stew  twelve  or  fourteen  hours  until  the  stock  is  as  rich  as 
the  ingredients  can  make  it ;  an  old  fowl  will  make  it  much  richer  if 
added.  This  soup  must  be  made  the  day  before  it  is  required,  when 
removed  from  the  fire,  after  being  sufficiently  stewed,  let  it  cool;  and 
then  remove  the  fat;  add  to  it  four  ounces  of  pounded  blanched 
almonds,  let  it  boil  slowly,  thicken  it  with  half  a  pint  of  cream  and 
an  egg ;  it  should  boil  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  and  then  be  served. 


4.-^BEEP   QRAYY. 

'  Take  three  pounds  of  beef  steaks,  two  rabbits,  excepting  the  head 
and  breast,  a  knuckle  of  veal,  five  carrots,  six  onions,  two  cloves,  two 
bay  leaves,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  and  scallions;  put  all  these  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  two  ladlefuls  of  broth,  and  set  them  over  a  good  fire  to  re- 
duce them,  cover  the  stove,  and  let  the  stewpan  stand  over  it  until  the 
meat  begins  to  give  out  the  gravy,  and  adneres  slightly;  the  jelly  at 
the  bottom  of  the  stewpan  ought  to  be  nearly  black,  and  when  that  is 
the  case,  take  it  firom  the  stove,  nnd  let  it  stand  for  ten  minutes,  then 
fill  up  the  stewpan  with  good  broth  or  water,  if  the  latter  not  so  large  a 
quantity,  let  this  simmer  for  three  hours,  skim  and  season  it  well;  if 
water  is  used  instead  of  broth,  the  gravy  must  be  strained  before  it 
is  used. 


5. — BEEP  0BA.vy. 

Cut  a  piece  of  the  cheek  or  neck  into  pieces,  strew  some  flour 
over  it,  mix  it  well  with  the  meat,  and  put  it  into  the  saucepan  with 
as  much  water  as  will  cover  it,  an  onion,  a  little  allspice,  a  little 
pepper,  and  some  salt,  cover  it  close,  and  when  it  boils  skim  it,  then 
throw  in  a  small  crust  of  bread,  or  raspings,  and  stew  it  till  the  gravy 
is  rich  and  good,  strain  it  off,  and  pour  it  into  a  sauce  boat* 


6. — GRAVY,— CLEAR. 

Slice  some  beef  thinly,  broil  a  part  of  it  over  a  very  clear  quick 
fire  just  enough  to  ^ve  colour  to  the  gravy,  but  not  to  dress  it ;  put 
that  with  the  raw  mto  a  tinned  stewpan  with  a  couple  of  onions, 
one  or  two  cloves,  whole  black  pepper,  berries  of  allspice,  and  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  cover  it  with  hot  water,  give  it  one  boil,  and 
skim  it  two  or  three  times,  then  cover  it,  and  let  it  simmer  till  quite 
strong. 


7.^-GiiAVT  sour. 

Nothing  is  better  than  shin  of  beef  for  this  soup,  though  pieces  of 
the  rump  and  other  parts  are  used;  the  shin  should  be  sawed  in 
several  places,  and  the  marrow  extracted ;  this,  if  laid  in  the  bottom 
of  the  saucepan  will  take  the  place  of  butter ;  if  marrow  is  not  forth- 
coming butter  must  be  employed ;  take  a  fourth  of  the  quantity  of 
ham,  stew  gently  until  the  gravy  is  extracted,  care  being  taken  it 


38  .  HEAT  SOUPS. 


does  not  bum ;  a  little  water  may  be  employed  by  the  inexperienced, 
but  not  much ;  >vben  it  has  nearly  dried  up  again  put  in  herbs,  a 
couple  of  carrots  cut  yery  small,  pepper  ground,  salt,  a  little  white 
sugar,  tliis  can  be  omitted,  but  it  materially  adds  to  the  flavour ;  add 
boiling  water  in  requisite  quantity,  stew  gently  for  Ave  hours ;  when 
cold  remove  the  fat,  and  warm  up  as  wanted. 


8.— GRAVY   SOUP. 

Take  a  leg  of  beef  and  well  wash  and  soak  it,  break  the  bone  and 

Eut  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  gallon  of  water,  a  large  bimch  of  sweet 
erbs,  two  large  onions  sliced  and  fried  to  a  nice  brown,  taking  great 
care  they  are  not  burnt,  two  blades  of  mace,  three  cloves,  twenty 
berries  of  allspice,  aud  forty  of  black  pepper,  stew  till  the  soup  is  as 
rich  as  you  wish  it  to  be,  then  take  out  the  meat,  when  it  is  cold  take 
off  the  fat,  heat  the  soup  with  vermicelli,  and  the  nicest  part  of  a 
head  of  celery  boiled  and  cut  to  pieces,  cayenne,  and  a  little  salt, 
carrot  may  be  added  with  turnip  cut  into  small  pieces  and  boiled  with 
spinach  and  endive,  or  the  herbs  without  the  vermicelli,  or  vermicelli 
only,  add  also  a  lar^e  spoonful  of  soy  and  one  of  mushroom  ketchup, 
a  French  roll  should  be  made  hot  and  put  into  the  soup. 


9. BLOOD   OK   VEAL   GRAVY. 

Put  a  few  slices  of  ham  into  a  thick  stewpan,  and  lay  over  it  some 
slices  of  lean  veal,  half  cover  the  meat  with  jelly  stock,  stew  it  over 
a  brisk  fire,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  bum,  when  the  broth  is 
reduced  thrust  a  knife  into  the  meat  so  that  the  gmvy  may  run  out, 
then  stewing  it  more  gently  till  brown,  turning  the  meat  frequently, 
when  of  a  dark  red  colour  moisten  with  hot  stock,  season  with  shred 
mushrooms,  parsley,  and  green  onions,  when  it  has  boiled  an  hour 
skim  and  strain  it  through  a  tammy  for  use  to  clarify. 


10. — ox   TAIL. 

One  tail  will  do  for  a  tureen  of  soup ;  cut  it  into  joints, — ^but  in  town 
your  butcher  will  cut  it  for  you — ^blanch  it  a  few  minutes  in  water,  then 
add  some  good  clear  second  stock  to  the  pieces,  and  let  them  gently 
boil  until  tender,  skim  oiF  all  grease  from  them,  add  sufficient  con- 
somme stock  you  require,  add  exactly  the  same  roots  as  for  saute 
soup,  only  differing  in  shape  and  size,  similar  to  the  roots  you  would 
cut  for  a  Imricot,  and  use  small  button  onions  instead  of  the  cut 
onions,  season  as  before,  dish  your  mqat  into  the  soup  tureen  with  a 
large  ragout  spoon,  or  you  ^\ill  ^mash  them  to  pieces. 


1 1.— OX-TAIL  SOUP, 

Same  as  Xo.  7 ;  add  about  three  ox-tails,  separated  at  the  joints, 
when  the  meat  upon  them  is  tender  it  is  done ;  they  must  not  be 
over  stewed  ;  add  a  spoonful  of  ketchup  or  Harvey's  sauce,  and  send 
to  table  with  pieces  of  the  tail  in  the  soup. 


MEAT  SOUPS.  39 


12,— MACGARONX  80UP. 

Cut  some  pipe  maccaroni,  'about  an  inch  long,  after  you  have 
blanched  it ;  do  not  boil  it  too  much ;  it  vrill  take  longer  than  vermi- 
celli ;  keep  the  pieces  in  cold  water  until  you  require  them  for  your 
soup,  when  you  mil  strain  them  off  and  add  to  your  consomme ;  season 
as  for  Italian  soup ;  send  up  on  a  small  plate  or  dish,  on  a  napkin, 
some  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 


18. MACCARONI   SOUP. 

Take  a  given  weight  of  maccaroni  in  proportion  to  the  quantity  of 
soup  required,  say  one  pound,  boil  it  in  a  quart  of  white  stock  until 
it  is  tender,  take  out  one  half  and  keep  the  other  boiling  ur^til  it  is 
reduced  to  a  pulp.  Add  sufficient  stock  imtil  the  whole  wiUi  half  a 
pint  of  cream,  boiling,  makes  five  pints;  grate  eight  ounces  of 
Parmesan  cheese,  and  add  the  half  of  the  maccaroni  which  had  beei!i 
only  boiled  tender,  warm  it  without  boiling,  serve  with  toast. 


14. — SAGO   SOUP. 

Take  three  pounds  of  lean  beef,  a  slice  of  lean  ham,  and  lay  them 
in  a  stewpan  with  a  lump  of  butter,  draw  the  gravy  gently,  add  two 
quarts  of  water,  and  a  sliced  onion  which  has  been  browned  by  frying 
in  fresh  butter,  add  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  six  cloves,  a  blade  of 
mace«  a  tea-spoonful  of  allspice,  and  one  of  black  pepper  whole,  stew 
until  the  soup  is  rich  and  brown,  then  remove  the  meat  and  strain 
the  soup  clear,  put  it  into  a  clean  stewpan,  thicken  it  to  a  good  con- 
sistency with  sago. 


15. — nAKED  sour. 


Cut  into  slices  a  pound  and  a  half  of  lean  beef,  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pan  or  earthenware  jar,  and  three  onions  sliced,  the  same  number  of 
carrots,  cut  up,  add  also  three  ounces  of  rice,  which  has  been  soaked 
two  hours  previously  and  'thoroughly  washed,  a  pint  of  white  peas^ 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover  down  close,  and  bake  two  hours. 


16.— CURRY  SOUP, 

Cut  the  meat  from  an  ox-cheek,  and  soak  it  well,  put  it  in  a  stew- 
pan,  with  four  onions  cut  in  slices,  a  bunch  of  pot  herbs ;  add  three 
quarts  of  water;  remove  the  scum  frequently,  and  strain;  add  haff 
a  pound  of  soaked  rice,  one  tea-spoonful  of  curry -powder,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt;  and  stew  four  hours. 


17. — SOUP   AND    BOUILLI. 

Stew  a  brisket  of  beef  with  some  turnips  and  carrots,  onions,  and 
celery,  all  cut  small ;  put  the  beef  into  the  pot  first,  then  the  roots, 
add  a  few  cloves  and  half  a  pint  of  beef  gravy,  simmer  an  horn*,  add 
•ufBcient  beef  gravy  to  fill  the  pan,  boil  gently  iat  half  an  hour. 


40  MEAT  80UP8. 


18.— SOUP  1  LA  BAP. 

Divide  a  pound  of  beef  into  thin  slices,  grate  half  a  pound  of 
potatoes,  and  put  them  in  three  quarts  of  water,  add  an  onion,  a  pint 
of  grey  peas  and  three  ounces  of  rice,  reduce  it  by  boiling  to  five 
pints,  cut  two  heads  of  celery  and  put  them  into  the  stewpan,  pour 
upon  them  the  five  pints  of  soup  and  pulp  the  boiled  peas  into  it 
through  a  fine  tammy  or  coarse  cloth,  stew  until  it  is  quite  tender, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  up  with  fried  bread  cut  in 
dice. 


19. — HESSIAN   SOUP. 

Cut  into  slices  three  pounds  of  shin  of  beef,  lay  it  in  a  stewpan, 
put  in  three  onions,  five  carrots,  eight  potatoes,  a  pint  and  a  quarter 
of  split  peas,  three  heads  of  celery,  some  whole  pepper,  salt ;  pour 
in  by  degrees  seven  quarts  of  water,  stew  imtil  reduced  to  half.  If 
the  soup  alone  be  required  strain  off  the  vegetables,  if  not,  serve  as 
cooked. 


20.— COCK-A-LEEKIE, 

Put  into  a  stewpan  as  much  beef  stock  as  you  desire  to  send  to 
table ;  put  in  an  old  fowl,  six  leeks  sliced  about  two  inches  long ; 
stew  gently  half  an  hour  previous  to  serving ;  put  in  six  to  eight 
ounces  of  prunes ;  serve  the  fowl  on  a  separate  £sh. 


21. SOUP  A  LA  FRAN9AISE. 

Place  in  the  stew-pan  six  pounds  of  beef,  add  a  few  small  veal 
bones,  or  one  about  a  pound  weight,  add  a  couple  of  fowls'  heads,  and 
a  small  piece  of  calf  s  liver,  cover  with  four  quarts  of  water ;  when  it 
boils  remove  the  scum,  add  three  or  four  leeks,  a  couple  of  turnips, 
head  of  celery,  a  burnt  onion,  a  large  carrot,  salt,  simmer  slowly 
seven  hours;  let  every  particle  of  scum  be  removed,  serve  with 
sippets  of  bread  in  the  soup. 


22. — A  CHEAP  SOUP. 

A  pound  or  a  pound  and  a  half  of  beef  lean,  cut  up  into  small 
pieces,  add  six  quarts  of  water,  three  large  onions,  double  the  quan- 
tity of  turnips ;  put  in  thyme,  parsley,  pepper,  and  salt,  half  a  pound 
of  rice,  a  pound  of  potatoes,  peeled  and  cut  in  quarters,  handful 
of  oatmeal ;  stew  from  three  to  four  hours,  not  less. 


23. — A   GOOD   AND   CHEAP   SOUP. 

Cut  in  slices  four  pounds  of  lean  beef,  mutton  if  lean  will  answer 
the  same  purpose,  fry  them  brown,  and  lay  them  with  their  gravy  in 
the  stew-pan,  cut  six  carrots  and  as  many  turnips  in  slices,  the  latter 


MEAT  80UP8.  41 


may  be  only  quartered,  three  tolerably  sized  onions,  two  table  spoon« 
fuls  of  bladt  pepper  whole,  and  two  heads  of  celery  with  their  green 
tops  on,  let  it  boil  and  then  simmer  till  the  meat  is  reduced  to  a  pulp» 
strain  it,  and  serve  with  or  without  the  vegetables. 


S4.— POBTABLE  SOUP. 

There  are  many  advantages  connected  with  this  soup,  which  will 
present  themselves  to  the  lady  housekeeper,  its  constant  readiness  for 
use,  its  forming  an  excellent  stock  for  gravies,  sauces,  or  soups ;  a 
few  minutes  will  suffice  to  make  a  bason  of  soup  from  it. 

Take  three  pounds  of  beef,  a  shin  of  beef,  the  bones  of  which 
break,  a  cow-heel  and  two  small  knuckles  of  veal,  put  them  in  a 
stewpan  and  add  as  much  water  as  will  barely  cover  them,  put  in 
three  onions  and  seasoning  to  taste,  stew  the  meat  to  ribbons,  strain, 
and  then  put  it  in  the  coldest  place  you  can  command,  when 
thoroughly  cold  take  off  the  fat  and  boil  it  fast  in  a  stewpan  without 
the  lid  on  a  quick  fire,  let  it  boil  and  keep  it  stirred  for  at  least  eight 
hours,  pour  it  into  a  pan  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  take 
your  largest  lip  bason  and  turn  the  soup  into  it,  boil  sufficient  water 
in  the  stewpan  to  reach  as  high  outside  the  bason  which  is  placed  in 
it  as  the  soup  is  inside,  but  do  not  let  any  bubble  into  the  bason, 
keep  the  water  boiling  until  the  water  is  reduced  to  a  good  con- 
sistency; it  will  be  then  done;  it  should  then  be  poured  into  small 
jelly  pots,  or  in  saucers,  so  as  to  form  cakes  when  cold,  and  is  best 
preserved  in  tin  canisters  put  in  dry  cool  places. 

This  soup  may  receive  various  flavours  of  herbs  or  any  thing  else, 
by  boiling  ihe  herbs  or  other  ingredients,  and  straining  the  simples 
noted  through  water,  making  it  boil,  and  then  melt  the  soup  in  it. 


25.-— OONSOMM^. 

Take  eight  or  ten  poonds  of  beef-steaks,  eight  old  hens,  two  young 
ones,  four  knuckles  of  veal,  put  these  into  a  krge  pot  and  fill  it  with 
strong  broth,  skim  it  well«  cooling  it  three  or  four  times  to  make 
the  scum  rise,  af^er  which  let  it  boil  gently.  Put  into  the  pot  carrots, 
turnips,  onions,  and  three  cloves;  when  your  meat  is  sufficiently 
done,  pass  the  liquor  through  a  fine  napkin  or  sieve,  that  it  may  be 
very  clear.     No  salt  need  be  put  in  if  strong  broth  be  used. 


26. — ^WHITE   PORTABLE  SOUP. 

Procure  as  fine  a  leg  of  veal  as  can  be  obtained,  bone  it,  remove 
the  whole  of  the  skin  and  fat,  chop  in  pieces  two  dozen  fowls*  feet, 
wash  them  well,  put  them  into  a  large  iron  kettle  with  three  gallons 
of  water,  stew  untU  the  meat  is  tender  enough  to  separate,  cover 
down  close  and  stew  for  eight  hours,  take  a  tea-cup  and  fill  it  with 
the  soup,  set  it  where  it  can  quickly  cool,  if  when  cold  it  is  hard 
enoi^h  to  cut  with  a  knife,  strain  through  a  sieve  and  remove  all  the 


42  MEAT  SOUPS. 


fat,  poor  into  cups  the  clear  jelly,  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with 
boiling  water  until  they  are  like  glue;  let  them  cool,  and  when  nearly 
cold  run  a  ring  round  them  and  turn  them  on  to  a  piece  of  new 
flannel,  it  will  draw  all  the  moisture  out  of  them,  turn  mem  in  seven 
hours  and  continue  \mtil  they  are  quite  hard,  put  them  in  tin  canisters 
in  a  dry  place. 

When  any  is  required,  cut  a  piece  about  the  size  of  a  walnut,  pour 
a  pint  of  boiling  water  upon  it,  stir  until  the  soup  is  dissolved,  season 
with  salt,  it  will  make  a  basin  of  strong  broth ;  if  for  soup  steep  some 
vermicelli  in  water ;  boil  it ;  then  to  one  cake  of  the  soup  pour  one 
pint  of  water,  if  two  quarts  or  four  pints  of  soup  are  required,  take 
four  cakes  of  the  soup,  and  when  melted  set  it  over  tlie  fire  and 
simmer,  pour  it  into  a  soup  tureen,  add  thin  slices  of  bread  v«ry 
lightly  toasted,  and  upon  them  the  vermicelli ;  season  to  palate. 


Q7. TRANSPAHENT   SOUP. 

Cut  the  meat  from  a  leg  of  veal  in  slices  as  thin  as  possible,  break 
the  bone  as  small  as  possible,  put  the  meat  into  a  veiy  large  jar  and 
the  bones  at  the  top.  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  mace,  four  ounces  of  blanched  garden  almonds  beat  fine, 
pour  upon  it  a  gallon  of  boiling  water,  let  it  simmer  over  a  slow  fire 
twelve  hours,  all  night  is  best ;  turn  it  into  a  double-bottomed  tin 
saucepan,  simmer  until  reduced  to  two  quarts,  remove  as  it  rises  the 
scum,  strain  it  and  let  it  stand  two  hours,  pour  into  a  saucepan, 
taking  care  not  to  let  any  of  the  sediment  accompany  it. 

Steep  two  ounces  of  vermicelli  in  water,  boil  it  and  put  it  in  the 
soup  before  serving  up. 

28. soup   ITALIENNE. 

Cut  the  meat  from  a  knuckle  of  veal,  break  up  the  bones  and 
make  a  broth  of  them,  cut  half  a  pomid  of  ham  in  slices  and  lay  them 
at  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan,  upon  them  the  meat  from  the  knuckle  of 
veal,  with  the  slices  of  four  carrots,  four  turnips,  a  dozen  peppercorns, 
two  blades  of  mace,  a  large  onion,  and  a  head  of  celery;  cover  down 
close;  stew  till  the  gravy  is  drawn  out  and  the  roots  are  quite  tender, 
pour  over  them  tlie  broth  made  from  the  l>ones  of  the  Imuckle  until 
they  are  covered,  add  six  spoonfuls  of  rice,  stew  four  houra,  work  the 
soup  through  a  sieve,  add  vermicelli  before  serving. 


29. — ITALIAN  SOUP. 

Blanch  about  two  ounces  of  Itahan  stew-paste  (or  any  portion  pre- 
ferred) a  few  minutes,  stmin  it  off",  and  put  it  in  a  basin  of  cold 
water  imtil  wanted,  it  must  be  boiled  a  short  time  in  some  good  con- 
somme stock ;  season  as  before,  using  less  sugar. 


30. — \'^BMICELLI   SOUP. 

Blanch  as  the  Italian  paste,  but  first  give  the  vermicelli  a  squeeze 
break  it  a  little,  or  otherwise  it  will  hang  disagreeably  about  ib% 


HEAT  SOUPS.  48 


kdle  or  spoon  in  eating,  at  the  risk  of  spoiling  a  ladj*s  dress  or 
causing  a  confused  blush.     Seas<m  as  before. 


31. — ESFAGNOLE. 

Take  fourteen  pounds  of  the  leg  or  shoulder  of  veal  and  an  old 
fowl,  chop  the  veal  into  pieces,  and  put  the  whole  into  a  saucepan, 
two  carrots,  tvyo  Onions,  a  pound  of  ham,  a  few  peppercorns,  a 
small  quantity  of  spice  and  a  clove  of  garlic,  let  this  stew  over  the 
fire,  shaking  it  frequently  till  it  becomes  of  a  brown  colour,  add  hot 
water  to  come  four  inches  above  the  meat,  set  it  by  the  stove  to  boil 
gently,  skimming  when  the  meat  comes  from  the  bones,  strain  it 
through  a  silk  sieve,  and  set  it  by  for  use. 


82, SOUP  A  LA  REINE  VICTORIA. 

Take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  lean  veal,  place  it  in  a  stewpon  with  a 
slice  of  bacon  which  must  not  be  fat,  an  onion  with  one  clove,  a  blade 
of  mace,  a  head  of  celery,  a  handful  of  sweet  herbs,  four  ounces  of 
iresh  butter,  and  some  whole  white  pepper,  set  it  over  a  clear  firei 
move  it  frequently  to  prevent  burning,  or  the  flavour  is  ruined. 
Have  some  white  gravy  ready,  thicken  it,  add  two  quarts  to  the  above 
ingredients  with  a  few  strips  of  mushrooms ;  let  it  boil,  and  when  it 
reaches  that  point  remove  it,  skim  it  clean  of  all  scum  or  fat.  Have 
ready  some  vermicelli  which  has  been  soaked  five  minutes  in  cold 
water  and  subsequently  stewed  in  a  strong  broth;  strain  on  it  the 
soup  and  serve  with  blanched  chervil  leaves  in  it. 


33. — MULLIGATAWNEY  SOUP. 

A  calfs  head  divided,  well  cleaned,  place  with  a  cow-heel,  in  a 
well  tinned  saucepan ;  boil  them  till  tender,  let  them  cool,  cut  the 
meat  from  the  bones  in  slices,  and  fiy  them  in  butter,  stew  the 
bones  of  the  head  and  heel  for  some  hours ;  when  well  stewed,  strain, 
let  it  get  cold  and  remove  the  fat.  When  this  is  accomplished  cut 
four  onions  in  slices,  flour  them,  fry  them  in  butter  until  brown,  add 
a  table-spoonfiil  and  a  half  of  best  curry  powder  obtainable,  cayenne 
pepper  one  tea-spoonful  with  a  little  salt,  turmeric  powder  suflBcient 
to  fill  a  dessert  spoon  is  sometimes  added,  but  the  improvement  is 
not  manifest  to  a  refined  English  palate,  the  curry  powder  being 
deemed  all  that  is  necessary ;  add  these  last  ingredients  to  the  soup, 
boil  gently  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half,  add  two  dessert-spoonfuls  of 
Harvey  8  sauce ;  serve. 


34. INDIAN  METHOD. 

Slice  six  onions,  and  seven  or  eight  shalots,  place  in  stewpan  with 
siz  ounces  of  butter,  out  a  pair  of  young  fowls,  as  though  for  fricasee, 
season  copiously  with  white  pepper,  place  the  chickens  upon 
the  onions,  stew  gently  rather  more  than  an  hour ;  then  remove  the 


44  HEAT  SOUPS. 


pieces  of  chicken,  flour  each  well,  put  them  again  in  the  pan,  with 
four  dessert-spoonfuls  of  curry  powder,  add  one  of  turmeric ;  pour 
at  least  two  quarts  of  gravy  to  this,  and  stew  slowly  for  an  hour,  add 
a  small  quantity  of  cayenne  pepper,  with  lenion  juice,  that  of  half 
a  lemon  will  suffice. 

Boil  a  pound  of  best  rice  until  soft ;  serve  in  a  separate  dish,  boxed 
with  small  pieces  of  toast  cut  into  squares, 

A  rabbit  will  serve  the  same  purpose  as  a  chicken. 


85. — CALVES*  FOOT  80DP  k   LA  TUBEEN. 

This  soup  I  frequently  make  from  calves'  feet,  after  having  taken 
the  stock  from  them  for  jelly,  but  I  do  not  boil  them  so  much  as 
though  I  did  not  require  them ;  take  out  all  the  bones  and  lay  them 
to  get  cold,  then  cut  them  into  large  square  pieces ;  if  quite  tender 
to  eat,  put  them  into  your  tureen ;  sweat  down  a  small  slice  of  raw 
ham  and  veal,  a  few  mushrooms,  two  onions,  a  sprig  of  parsley, 
a  blade  of  mace,  a  large  ffiggot  of  sweet  herbs,  with  plenty  of  basH, 
diy  all  well  up  with  flour,  strain  it  through  a  tammy  cloth  or  sieve ; 
season  with  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and  lemon,  add  a  wine  glass  or  two 
of  white  wine  at  the  last,  then  put  in  the  cut  meat  to  get  hot. 


36- — CALVES*   TAIL   SOUP. 

Get  three  calves'  tails,  let  them  be  cut  in  joints,  and  put  into 
(after  blanching  them)  some  good  white  stock,  and  stew  them  well 
for  several  hours ;  proceed  as  for  the  former  soup,  season,  likewise, 
the  same,  but  leave  out  the  basil. 


87. — LAMBS*  TAILS   SOUP. 

Four  lambs*  tails,  cut  in  joints,  will  make  this  soup,  proceeding 
the  same  way  as  the  former,  leaving  out  the  sweet  herbs;  add  cream, 
as  to  the  former,  and  one  glass  of  white  wine. 


88. — MUTTON   SOUP. 

Cut  a  neck  of  mutton  into  four  pieces,  put  it  aside,  take  a  slice  of 
the  gammon  of  bacon  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  of  peas 
with  enough  water  to  boil  them,  let  the  peas  boil  to  a  pulp  and  strain 
them  through  a  cloth,  put  them  aside,  add  enough  water  to  that  in 
which  is  the  bacon  to  boil  the  mutton,  slice  three  turnips,  as  many 
carrots,  and  boil  for  an  hour  slowly,  add  sweet  herbs,  onions,  cabbage, 
and  lettuces  chopped  small,  stew  a  quarter  of  an  hour  longer,  suffi- 
cient to  cook  the  mutton,  then  take  it  out,  take  some  fresh  green  peas, 
add  them  with  some  chopped  parsley  and  tW  peas  first  boiled  to  the 
soup,  put  in  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  stew  till  the  green 
peas  are  done. 


M£AT  SOUPS.  45- 


39. — liAMB    SOUP 

May  be  cooked  as  above,  save  that  beef  should  be  substituted  for  the 
bacon. 


40.— LEO   OF  BEEF  BBOTH. 

Take  a  leg  of  beef,  break  the  bone  in  several  places,  place  it  in  a 
pan  with  a  gallon  of  water,  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises  and  add  three 
blades  of  mace,  a  crust  of  bread,  and  a  small  bunch  of  parsley ;  boil 
till  the  beef  is  tender ;  toast  some  bread,  cut  it  in  diamonds,  lay  it  in 
the  bottom  of  the  tureen,  put  the  meat  on  it,  and  pour  the  broth  over  all. 


41. — ^BBOTH. 

Pat  the  mouse  round  of  beef,  a  knuckle-bone  of  veal,  and  a  few 
sbankB  'of  mutton  into  a  deep  pan,  and  cover  it  close  with  a  dish  of 
coarse  paste,  put  water  enough  to  cover  the  meat,  and  bake  it  till 
tender ;  when  cold  let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place,  covered  close,  flavour 
it  as  you  please. 


42. — ^VEAL  BROTH. 

Stew  a  knuckle  of  veal ;  draw  gravy  as  for  stock,  add  four  quarts 
of  water,  with  celery,  parsley,  and  an  onion ;  simmer  till  reduced  to 
half,  add  two  or  three  ounces  of  rice,  but  not  until  the  soup  is  nearly 
cooked,  so  that  when  served  the  rice  may  be  no  more  than  done. 
Vermicelli  may  be  used  in  preference,  or  for  change. 


43.— MUTTON  BROTH. 

Three  pounds  of  the  scrag  of  mutton,  put  into  two  quarts  of  cold 
water,  add  onion,  and  turnips,  pepper,  and  salt,  a  few  sweet  herbs, 
sod  a  little  pearl  barley ;  skim  well,  and  boil  four  hours. 

These  ingredients  chiefly  depend  upon  whether  this  dish  is  made 
for  an  invalid,  if  so,  the  omission  of  any  of  the  ingredients  will  be 
regulated  according  to  the  advice  of  the  medical  attendant. 


44.— SHEEP*S   HEAD   BBOTH. 

Split  the  sheep*s  head  and  well  wash  it,  take  out  the  brains,  let  the 
head  soak  for  an  hour  in  cold  water ;  boil  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  Scotch  barley  in  eight  quarts  of  water,  and  when  it  boils  put  in 
the  head  with  a  neck  of  mutton,  slice  carrots  thin  and  cut  turnips 
Bmall,  add  them  with  some  salt;  let  it  boil  for  three  hours,  and 
8kim  with  care  and  frequency.  When  it  has  boiled  two  hours  and  a 
half  add  some  onions  chopped  very  flne.  In  warming  up  this  soup 
it  must  be  stirred  gently  over  a  clear  fire  and  allowed  to  boil  no 
longer  than  three  minutes. 


46  SOUPS  or  poultry,  game,  etc, 

45. — CHICKEN   BROTH. 

Joint  a  chicken,  wash  the  pieces,  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with 
three  pints  of  water,  and  add  two  ounces  of  rice,  two  or  three  blades 
of  mace,  some  white  pepper  whole,  a  pinch  of  salt:  let  it  come  to  a 
boil,  skim  frequently,  simmer  for  three  hours ;  boil  for  five  minutes 
in  the  soup  some  yermicelli,  and  serve  with  it  in  the  soup. 


46. — SCOTCH  BABLEY  BROTH. 

Throw  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Scotch  barley  into  some  clean 
water,  when  thoroughly  cleansed  place  it  with  a  knuckle  of  veal  in  a 
Btewpan,  cover  it  with  cold  water,  let  it  slowly  reach  a  boil,  keep  it 
skimmed,  add  seven  onions,  and  simmer  for  two  hours,  skim  again 
and  add  two  heads  of  celery  and  two  turnips  cut  in  slices  or  any 
shape  it  pleases  the  cook ;  add  as  much  salt  as  required  to  make  it 
palatable,  let  it  stew  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  it  must  be  well  skimmed 
before  the  broth  is  dished ;  the  meat  must  be  previously  removed  and 
the  broth  alone  sent  to  table. 

If  it  is  intended  to  send  the  veal  to  table  with  it,  dress  it  as  fol- 
lows ;  take  two  pints  of  the  broth  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  over  a 
clear  fire,  add  two  table- spoonfuls  of  flour  to  the  broth,  and  keep  the 
broth  stirring  as  you  shake  it  in  until  it  boils,  add  a  Httle  cayenne 
pepper,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  port,  boil  for  two  minutes,  strain  it 
over  the  veal  and  send  to  table. 


SOUPS  OF  POUETRY,  GAME,  ETC. 

47. — GIBLET  SOUP. 

Scald  and  clean  thoroughly  two  sets  of  goose  mblets  or  twice  the 
number  of  duck  giblets,  cut  them  in  pieces,  put  tnem  in  three  quarts 
of  stock,  if  water  is  used  instead  of  stock  add  a  pound  of  gravy  beef; 
a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  couple  of  onions,  half  a  table-spoonful  of 
whole  white  pepper,  as  much  salt,  and  the  peel  of  half  a  lemon ; 
cover  all  with  water,  stew,  and  when  the  gizzards  are  tender  stniin 
the  soup. 

Now  put  into  a  stow-pan  a  psiste  made  of  an  ounce  of  butter  and  a 
spoonful  of  flour,  stir  it  over  the  fire  until  brown,  pour  in  the  soup, 
let  it  boil  stirring  it  well  all  the  wliile ;  in  ten  minutes  skim  and 
strain  it,  add  a  glass  of  Madeira,  a  salt-spoonful  of  cayenne,  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  mushroom  ketchup,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
serve  up  with  the  giblets  in  the  soup,  it  should  be  sent  to  table  as 
hot  as  possible. 


48.— GIBLET  SOUP. 

Get  two  sets  of  giblets,  blanch  them,  and  throw  them  into  cold 
water,  then  cut  them  in  pieces  about  one  inch  long,  the  gizard,  liver, 


80trPS  OF  POULTBT,  GAME,  ETO.  47 

and  heart  cat  in  thin  slices,  pnt  them  into  some  good  second  stock 
and  stew  them  until  tender,  strain  off  some  of  that  stock,  cut  up  in 
dice  a  piece  of  lean  ham,  two  onions,  a  fisiggot  of  sweet  herbs,  a  few 
mushnyoms  or  the  parings,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  six  cloves,  a  bay 
leaf,  fiy  all  a  nice  light  brown ;  if  for  brown  giblet  soup,  diy  all  up 
with  flour,  add  the  stock  you  have  strained  from  the  giblets  and  boU 
it  well,  then  strain  it  through  a  tammy  or  tammy  sieve  into  the  stew, 
pan  with  the  giblets,  boil  all  together,  clear  off  all  grease,  season  with 
salt,  sugar,  cayenne  pepper,  lemon-juice,  and  white  wine. 

If  for  white  giblet  soup,  do  not  let  your  butter  brown,  and  add 
half  a  pint  of  good  cream,  and  the  wine,  and  lemon,  the  last  thing, 
in  case  of  curdUng  your  soup. 


49, ^HARB   SOUP. 

An  old  hare  is  fitted  only  for  soup  or  jugging.  To  render  it  into 
soup  let  it  be  cleaned,  cut  into  pieces,  add  a  pound  and  a  half  or  two 
pounds  of  beef,  to  which  there  is  little  or  no  fat;  place  it  at  the 
bottom  of  the  pan,  add  two  or  three  slices  of  ham  or  bacon,  or  a 
little  of  both,  a  couple  of  onions,  and  some  sweet  herbs,  add  four 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  let  it  stew  to  shreds,  strain  off  the  soup,  and 
take  away  the  fet ;  reboil  it,  add  a  spoonful  of  soy  or  Harvey's  sauce, 
send  to  table  with  a  few  force-meat  baUs. 


50. — HARE  SOUP. 

If  possible  procure  a  hare  that  has  been  coursed ;  in  skinning  it, 
and  blowing  it,  take  care  of  all  the  blood.  Cut  it  up  in  small  pieces, 
add  about  six  onions,  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  a  bay  leaf,  four  blades 
of  mace,  six  cloves,  a  few  pepper-corns,  about  one  pound  of  lean 
ham  cot  in  dice,  a  few  mushrooms  or  parings,  cover  all  witli  your 
brown  second  stock,  stew  all  imtil  tender,  then  take  up  a  few  of  the 
best  pieces  of  meat  to  go  into  your  soup  from  the  rest,  take  out  aU 
the  bones,  then  rub  all  die  meat  and  stock  through  a  tammy  until 
aU  the  meat  has  gone  clean  through ;  return  it  to  your  stewpan ;  if 
not  thick  enough,  add  a  little  flour  and  butter  thi^ ;  season  with 
cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and  port  wine,  then  add  the  best  pieces  of  meat 
you  had  previously  taken  care  of.  Be  sure  it  has  been  well  skimmed 
j&om  grease. 


61. — SOUP   LORRAINE. 

Pound  in  a  mortar  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds,  use  a  little 
vater,  or  they  will  oil ;  add  to  these  the  meat  of  the  breast  and  legs 
of  a  roast  fowl,  and  with  the  yolks  of  four  poached  eggs  beat  up  into 
a  smooth  mixture;  warm  three  quarts  of  white  stock,  stir  in  the 
ingredients,  and  boil  them  over  a  slow  fire.  Chop  the  meat  of  the 
legs,  wings,  and  breast  of  a  second  fowl  until  it  is  minced  fine ; 
season  it  with  nutmeg,  pepper,  salt,  and  finely  pounded  mace:  melt 
a  lump  of  butter,  strain  a  small  quantity  of  the  soup,  and  add  to  the 


48  SOUPS  or   POULTRY,   GAME,  ETC. 

butter  one  spoonful;  cut  into  slices  two  French  rolls,  crisp  them  be- 
fore  the  fire,  scoop  out  the  crumb  of  a  third  roll,  without  damaging 
the  crust,  fill  it  with  the  minced  food ;  close  the  roll  at  each  end, 
and  make  it  hot,  and  keep  it  so.  Strain  into  a  stewpan  the  soup, 
and  stew  it  until  the  consistency  of  cream ;  laj  the  crisped  slices  of 
roll  in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen,  pour  the  soup  on  to  it,  and  serve  up 
with  the  roll  containing  the  minced  fowl  floating  in  the  centre. 


52. — PARTRIDGE  SOUP.  * 

When  you  have  a  brace  of  partridges  which  prove  to  be  remarkably 
old,  convert  them  into  soup,  skin  and  cut  them  up,  cut  a  handsome 
slice  of  ham  as  lean  as  possible  and  divide  it  in  four,  or  cut  as  many 
thin  slices,  put  them  in  the  pan,  add  the  partridges  with  an  onion 
sliced,  some  celery,  and  four  oimces  of  butter,  brown  nicely  without 
burning,  put  them  into  the  stewpan  with  one  quart  and  a  pint  of 
water,  throw  in  a  few  white  peppers  whole,  a  shank  of  mutton,  salt  it 
to  palate,  strain,  add  stewed  celery,  fried  bread,  and  previous  to  its 
boUing  skim  very  clean  and  serve  up. 


53. — ^VKLOUTE. 

Take  the  cuttings  and  remains  of  any  joints  of  fowls  and  veal  you 
may  happen  to  have,  weigh  four  pounds,  and  put  into  a  large  stewpan, 
wiUi  some  onions,  carrots,  parsley,  scallions,  three  bay  leaves,  tnree 
cloves,  and  a  ladleful  of  stock,  put  your  stewpan  upon  a  brisk  fire,  skim 
well,  and  be  careful  the  meat  does  not  stick ;  when  enough  reduced  add 
as  much  stock  as  will  nearly  fill  the  stewpan,  salt  it  well,  give  it 
a  boil,  skim,  and  then  put  it  on  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  ror  two 
hours,  after  which  strain  it  through  a  tammy;  make  a  white  roux; 
stir  into  it  for  ten  minutes  a  few  champignons,  then  pour  on  it,  a  litde  at 
a  time,  the  above  liquor,  let  it  boil  up  once,  skim,  and  set  it  again  by 
the  side  of  the  fire  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  remove  all  fat,  strain  again 
and  then  put  by  for  use.  The  velout6,  should  be  colourless,  the  wmter 
it  is  the  better. 


54. — PIGEON   SOUP. 

Take  half  a  dozen  of  the  fattest  pigeons  you  can  get,  roast  them 
only  sufficient  to  warm  them  through ;  cut  the  meat  from  the  bones ; 
flour  the  latter  well,  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar ;  stew  them  in 
a  pint  and  a  half  of  good  gravy,  add  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  a  bunch  of  tarragon,  chervil,  a  few  onions,  shalots,  parsley,  and 
basil,  a  few  turnips  and  carrots  sliced,  season  with  cayenne  and  one 
blade  of  mace.  Boil  slowly  two  hours,  pour,  and  pass  through  a 
cullender.  Pulp  through  a  tammy,  and  then  with  the  flesh  of  the 
pigeons  put  them  into  a  saucepan.  Let  it  simmer  one  hour  and 
serve. 


SOtJPS  OF  POULTEY,   GAME,   ETC.  49 

56. — TUBTLE,   KILLED   AND  DBE8S£D. 

Tie  a  strong  cord  round  the  hind  fins  of  the  turtle,  then  hang 
it  up  ;  tie  another  cord  hy  way  of  pinion  to  hoth  fins,  that  it  should 
not  heat  ahout  and  he  trouhlesome  to  the  person  who  cuts  ofif  the 
head,  then  take  off  the  head.  All  this  do  the  evening  hefore  you  in- 
tend dressing  it ;  then  lay  the  turtle  on  the  hack  shell  on  your  hlock, 
then  loosen  the  shell  round  the  edge  hy  cutting  it  with  your  sharp 
knifei  then  gently  raise  the  shell  clean  off  from  the  flesh,  then  next 
take  out  the  gall  with  great  care,  then  cut  the  fore  fins  off— all  the 
flesh  will  come  with  them,  then  cut  the  hind  fins  off,  take  the  liver 
as  whole  as  you  can  from  the  entrails,  likewise  the  heart  and  the  kid- 
neys; cut  the  entrails  from  the  hack  hone,  put  them  in  a  hucket 
of  water,  wash  the  shell  in  several  waters,  and  turn  it  down  to 
drain.  In  the  meantime  cut  the  fins  from  the  lean  meat,  then  cut 
the  white  or  helly  shell  in  twelve  or  fourteen  pieces,  turn  up  the  hack 
shell  and  take  all  the  fat  from  it  taking  it  out  as  though  you  were 
skinning  anything,  put  the  fat  in  a  stewpan  by  itself,  saw  a  rim 
off  the  back  shell  six  inches  deep,  cut  it  in  about  twelve  pieces,  put 
a  large  stewpan  full  of  water  on  the  fire,  when  it  boils  dip  in  a  fin 
for  a  minute  or  two,  then  peal  off  the  shell,  and  so  continue  imtil  you 
have  done  it  all,  head  and  all ;  then  put  all  the  pieces  of  shell  into  a 
stewpan,  with  about  eighteen  large  onions,  and  a  ffiggot  of  sweet 
herbs,  allowing  more  basil  than  any  other  herbs,  fill  it  up  with  water, 
let  it  boil  a  long  time ;  the  next  you  will  cut  the  fore  fins  into  four 
pieces,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  cover  them  with  water,  the  hind 
ones  in  two  each;  cover  the  stewpan;  let  them  boil  gently  until  you 
can  take  out  all  the  bones,  do  not  mix  them,  but  put  them  on  differ- 
ent dishes,  put  the  two  liquors  in  one  pan. 

Cut  up  the  lean  meat  for  entrees,  such  as  grenadins,  collops,  frican- 
deaux,  roasting  or  boiling  as  chickens,  pates,  cutlets,  or  quenelles.  Put 
one  pound  of  butter  into  a  large  stewpan,  and  all  the  lean  next  that 
may  be  left  as  useless,  cut  up  three  or  four  fowls,  a  faggot  of  turtle 
herbs,  twelve  onions,  three  or  four  pounds  of  lean  ham,  a  bottle  of 
Madeira,  and  a  pound  of  mushrooms,  draw  it  down  for  one  hour,  then 
fill  it  up  with  the  liquor  previously  strained  from  the  bones  and 
shells,  keep  it  all  boilmg  gently  for  several  hours,  then  strain  it  ofi^ 
taking  care  of  what  lean  meat  you  require  for  your  tureens,  put  it  in^ 
your  soup  pot  to  keep  hot,  with  a  little  of  the  stock.  Have  the  entrails- 
cleaned  and  scalded,  then  cut  them  into  pieces  two  inches  long,  then 
put  them  on  to  blanch  in  cold  water,  wash  them  out,  line  a  stewpan 
with  fat  bacon,  let  them  stew  very  gently  for  about  three  hours,  ^en 
thicken  the  stock  as  for  mock  turtle,  and  rub  it  through  a  tammy, 
add  egg  balls,  or  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  in  half,  and  forcemeat  balls, 
or  quenelles,  the  green  fat  to  be  boiled  by  itself  in  good  consomme, 
a  litde  to  be  added  to  each  tureen  of  soup.  If  to  be  sent  up  in  Uie 
shell,  put  a  pretty  rim  of  raised  pie  paste  round  the  top  shell ;  add 
the  jmce  of  lemons  and  a  little  more  wine  before  you  serve  it  up. 
Season  with  sugar,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt. 


50  80UPS  OF  POULTRY^  GAME,  ETa 

Is  made  mach  after  the  same  maimer.  The  calf  s  head  bemg  dirided, 
having  the  skin  oo,  the  hrains  care&illj  removed  and  boiled  aepazately 
in  a  cloth ;  it  must  be  placed  in  the  saucepan,  with  DM>re  than  enoogh 
water  to  cover  it,  skim  while  heating,  let  it  be  parboiled,  and  thieiL 
let  it  cool,  cut  the  meat  from  the  head  in  square  pieces,  the  tongue 
also,  then  break  the  bones  of  the  head  in  pieces,  retom  them  iato 
the  water  in  which  they  have  been  boiled,  add  shin  of  beef,  abaca 
three  or  four  pounds,  knuckle  of  veal,  three  or  four  onions,  two  smaU 
carrots  sliced,  a  turnip  also,  with  black  pepper  ungroond,  add  the 
brains  pounded,  and  stew  gently  five  hours,  strain,  cool,  and  remove 
the  fat ;  take  a  clean  stewpan,  place  in  it  of  fresh  butter  four  ounces; 
add  to  it,  when  fluid,  three  wooden  spoonfuls  of  flour,  stirriag  it  well 
until  it  browns,  some  shalota,  or  a  little  oS  the  soup  may  be  added  to 
to  this,  also  parsley,  sweet  basil,  chives,  salt,  soy,  cayenne,  and 
ketchup ;  strain  before  you  add  it  to  the  soup  into  which  you  will 
return  the  pieces  of  meat,  and  boil  it  for  upwards  of  an  hour,  previoos 
to  dishing  half  a  pint  of  sherry  or  Madeira  should  be  added,  a  lemos 
squeezed  into  the  tureen  in  which  it  is  to  be  served,  and  when  in  the 
tureen  add  egg  balls,  twenty  or  thirty  in  number. 


57. MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP. 

This  soup  if  well  made,  gives  general  satisfaction.  Take  a  ealfs 
heady  thoroughly  scraped  and  cleaned,  the  skin  remaining  on;  plaice 
it  in  a  soup  pot,  to  this  t^  that  part  of  the  hand  of  pidded  pork 
which  is  free  from  bones,  the  fattest  end,  observing  that  it  is  proper 
to  soak  it  well  in  water  previous  to  using ;  put  in  sweet  herbs^  a 
couple  of  onions,  a  head  of  celery  if  large,  a  few  truffles  and  morels, 
two  if  small,  pounded  mace  and  pepper,  add  plenty  of  water,  without 
quite  filling  the  saucepan,  boil  slowly  until  the  meat  has  become 
tender,  then  remove  it,  and  cut  the  meat  £rom  the  bone  into  aquaie 
pieceeK  break  the  bones  and  put  them  again  into  the  soup,  let  it 
auDJo^et  for  four  or  five  hours,  then  place  it  where  it  can  qnick^ 
cool,  remove  the  fat  and  straia  the  soup ;  thicken  with  flour  and 
butter,  add  three  table-spoonfuls  of  Harvey's  sauce,  four  or  five 
glasses  of  sherry  or  Madeira,  and  squeeze  a  whole  lemon  into  it; 
add  the  meat  of  the  head  and  the  pork  cut  into  well-shaped  pieces, 
conclude  with  egg  balk,  or  foice-meat,  or  both,  warm  it  and  serve; 
it  will  be  found  a  delicious  soup. 


68. — MOCK   TURTLE   SOUP. 

Blanch  half  a  calfs  head  sufficiently  to  draw  out  the  benes*  cut 
off  the  ear  and  the  tongup,  take  off  the  skin  of  the  tongue,  lay  aU 
separate  until  cold,  and  strain  off  the  hquor,  and  add  it  to  your  veal 
or  second  stock ;  cut  the  meat  into  large  square  dice,  put  it  into  a 
stewpan  with  your  already  prepared  stock,  and  stew  it  until  tender, 
strain  off  some  of  the  stock,  get  another  stewpan,  cut  about  one 
pound  of  lean  York  or  Westphalia  ham,  one  pound  of  lean  veal,  a 


]E*I8H  80UP8.  51 


good  ffiggot  of  basil  and  knottod-maijoram,  two  or  three  Uades  of 
mace,  six  or  seven  cloves,  two  baj-leaves»  four  onionSy  the  parings  (^ 
a  few  mushnxMnSy  half  a  pound  of  batter,  fry  them  for  some  time  a 
nice  light  brown,  dry  all  up  with  flour,  then  add  your  stock  yon  hare 
previously  strained  from  the  cut  pieces ;  if  too  thick  add  more  stock, 
let  all  boil  for  some  time,  keeping  it  stirred  with  a  wooden  spoon; 
when  boiled  sufficient,  strain  it  through  a  tammy  or  tammy-sieve 
into  the  ste^-pan  that  has  the  cut  pieces  of  the  head,  boil  aU  toge- 
ther ;  season  with  sugar,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt,  juice  of  lemon, 
and  white  wine  ;  if  you  widi  to  preserve  the  old  fashion,  by  having 
forcemeat  balls,  egg,  &c,,  refer  for  them  to  the  previous  receipt ;  add 
them  to  it  vdien  they  are  blanched.  I  only  put  hard-boiled  eggs,  and, 
if  I  have  any,  a  few  quenelles. 


59. POTAGE   A   LA   REINE. 

Take  three  or  four  roast  chickens,  cut  off  all  the  meat,  and  pound 
it  well  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  rice,  previously  boiled  in  water 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Dilute  it  with  some  good  consomme,  and 
strain  it ;  then  add  sufficient  quantity  of  consomme  to  the  puree  to 
make  it  of  the  requisite  consistence,  put  the  bones  of  the  chickens 
into  the  above,  and  let  it  simmer  over  a  small  fire  for  two  hours, 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  dinner  time ;  pour  some  of  it  over 
the  bread  to  soak  it  as  usual;  just  before  serving  strain  the  whole 
throu^  a  fine  sieve. 


50.— A  PLAV0UBI2CO  TO  MAKE  SOUP  TASTE  LIKE  TUBTLE. 

Toar  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  shalot  wine  into  the  same  quantity 
of  essence  of  anchovies,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  basil  vdne,  half 
that  quantity  of  mushroom  ketchup,  stir  in  about  half  a  tea  spoonful 
of  curry  powder,  add  half  an  ounce  of  thin  lemon  peel,  and  half  a 
dradmi  of  citric  acid,  let  it  remain  for  a  week.  It  will  be  found, 
mbfeaoL  added  to  soup,  to  give  the  flavour  of  turtle. 


njsasoTTF& 

61. — STOCK  FOR  WHITE  OB  BBOWN  FISH  SOUP. 

It  must  be  understood  that  this  stock  will  not  keep  long,  three 
days  being  the  utmost.  Take  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  English  eels, 
silver  eels  as  they  are  termed,  they  may  be  known  from  the  Dutch 
By  the  white  silvery  appearance  of  the  belly;  cut  them  in  pieces 
alx>ut  an  inch  and  a  half  or  two  inches  long,  cut  up  six  fresh  flounders 
and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  skate.  Place  them  in  the  pan  with 
rafficient  vmter  to  cover  them,  add  two  heads  of  celery,  three  parsley 
loote  cot  in  slices,  an  onion,  and  sweet  herbs;  season  with  pepper, 
aall;,  and  mace.  The  onion  should  be  stuck  with  cloves,  and  a  little 
af  Uie  liquor  from  aay  potted  fish  will  impseva  the  Basfowc^  but  moat 

£  2 


52  FISH  SOUPS* 


not  be  added  until  just  previous  to  serving;  cover  close  down  and 
simmer  one  hour  and  three  quarters,  strain  off  for  use. 

The  only  difference  between  this  and  brown  soup  is  that  the  fish 
must  be  first  fried  brown  in  butter. 

Fish  soups  may  be  most  numerous ;  there  is  scarcely  a  fish  which 
may  not  be  used  for  this  puipose,  the  most  available  and  easiest 
made  are  those  which  are  composed  of  the  cheaper  kinds  of  fish. 


62. CRAY  FISH  SOUP. 

To  three  quarts  of  good  white  stock,  add  fifty  cray  fish,  having 
first  picked  off  the  tails,  the  meat  from  the  head  and  shells,  and 
beat  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  it  will  become  of  the  consistency  of 
cream ;  boil  it  fifteen  minutes,  rub  it  through  a  tammy,  or  coarse 
cloth,  season  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper:  the  colour  may  be 
heightened  by  lobster  spawn,  beat  up  with  the  meat  of  the  cray  fish, 
or  the  juice  of  beet-root. 


63. — EEL   SOUP. 

Take  any  number  of  pounds  of  eels  according  to  the  quantity 
required ;  add  two  thirds  water.  If  about  three  or  four  pounds  of 
eels  add  one  onion,  a  small  quantity  of  mace,  a  little  pepper  whole, 
sweet  herbs,  a  crust  of  the  top  side  of  bread,  cover  down  dose;  stew 
till  the  fish  separates,  strain.  Toast  sUces  of  bread  deep  brown  but 
not  to  bum,  cut  into  triangular  pieces  or  squares,  a  piece  of  carrot 
two  inches  long  cut  into  four  slices  lengthways,  put  into  a  tureen  with 
the  toast,  pour  the  soup  on,  boiling  cream  may  be  added  thickened 
with  a  HtUe  flour,  but  it  should  be  rich  enough  without  it. 


64. — PISH  SOUP  MAGNIFIQUE. 

Make  stock  of  skate,  flounders,  and  eels;  cut  some  handsome 
cutlets  from  a  turbot,  salmon,  or  cod ;  lay  them  aside.  Make  a 
marinade  composed  of  three  turnips,  the  like  number  of  carrots,  two 
onions,  and  half  a  clove  of  garlic,  the  flavour  of  the  last  is  alone 
desired ;  the  quantity,  therefore,  may  be  just  sufficient  to  communi- 
cate it,  and  no  more :  and  then,  according  to  the  quantity  of  fish 
proposed  to  be  cooked,  add  water,  and  one  third  wine,  squeezing  into 
it  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Stew  this  together  for  fifteen  minutes, 
strain  it,  and  let  it  get  cold;  then  add  the  cutlets,  simmer  until  the 
liquor  is  one  third  reduced,  pour  in  the  stock  first  made,  thicken  it 
with  cream,  season  with  a  Httle  cayenne  and  salt;  serve  up  the 
cutlets  in  the  dish  with  the  soup. 


65. SHADDOCK  SOUP. 

Pound  in  a  mortar  with  a  pint  of  picked  shrimps,  the  meat  of  a 
haddock,  chop  a  handful  of  parsley  very  fine,  and  add  the  whole  of 
the  crumb  of  a  French  roll  which  has  been  steeped  in  cream ;  add 


FI8H  SOUPS.  53 


one  egg,  and  mix  well  together;  make  it  into  balls;  stew  down  into 
broth  two  haddocks,  seasoned  with  cayenne  and  a  little  mace;  pulp 
through  a  sieve  the  meat  of  the  two  haddocks,  boil  up  with  parsley, 
thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  and  serve  with  the  forcemeat  balls 
in  it 


66. — L0B8TEB   SOUP. 

Extract  the  meat  from  the  shells  of  four  hen  lobsters,  which  have 
been  boiled :  put  the  spawn  aside,  beat  the  flns  and  small  claws  in  a 
mortar ;  then  place  both  in  a  saucepan,  with  two  quarts  of  water, 
until  the  whole  goodness  of  the  fish  has  been  drawn ;  then  strain  the 
liquor.  Beat  in  a  mortar  the  spawn,  a  lump  of  flour  and  butter ;  rub 
it  through  a  sieve  into  the  soup  previously  strained ;  simmer  without 
boiling,  that  the  colour  may  be  preserved,  ten  minutes ;  squeeze  in 
the  piece  of  a  lemon,  with  a  little  of  the  essence  of  anchovies. 

When  this  dish  is  sent  to  table  as  a  feature,  forcemeat  balls  are 
served  with  it ;  they  are  made  of  minced  lobster,  spawn,  crumb  of 
French  roll,  egg,  and  mace  pounded ;  roll  it  in  flour,  and  serve  in 
the  soup. 


67. — PURi:E   OF  LOBSTER  SOUP. 

Get  two  large  hen  lobsters,  take  out  all  the  meat,  chop  and  pound 
it  fine,  six  anchovies  boned,  put  the  shells  in  some  second  stock  to 
boil  for  some  time,  strain  off  the  liquor  into  your  pounded  lobsters, 
boil  all  until  tender,  rub  all  through  a  tammy,' add  one  pint  of  cream; 
season  with  cayenne  pepper,  a  little  sugar,  and  salt,  and  lemon* 
juice. 


68. MUSSEL   SOUP, 

Put  two  quarts  of  mussels  into  a  saucepan,  boil  them  until  they 
open,  take  the  mussel  from  the  shells,  separate  the  sea-weed  from 
them  carefully,  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  lump  of  flour  and 
batter,  a  handful  of  parsley,  and  sweet  herbs,  add  three  pints  of  rich 
gravy;  simmer  until  reduced  to  a  little  more  than  half;  serve  hot 
with  sippets. 

69.— OYSTEE   SOUP. 

Beard  four  dozen  oysters,  preserve  the  liquor  in  opening  them, 
which  must  be  placed  with  the  beards  of  the  oysters  in  a  stewpan, 
slice  skate  or  sole  or  any  other  fish,  small  fresh  water  fish  will  serve 
excellently  well,  and  adding  them,  stew  lor  five  or  six  hours ;  strain 
and  thicken  it,  add  two  spoonfuls  of  soy  or  any  fish  sauce,  or  omit  it, 
to  taste.     Add  the  oysters,  and  when  they  are  warm  through,  serve. 


70.— OTBTEB  SOUP. 

Get  fiMir  flounders,  or  similar  portions  of  any  fish,  four  dozen  of 
kige  oysters,  blanch  them  slightly,  take  off  the  beards  and  gristle. 


54  YEaSTABLE  SOUPS. 


put  the  beards  and  fish  into  some  of  yoor  best  white  stock,  boil  all 
together  for  several  hours,  add  four  andiories  -washed,  strain  all  off  and 
thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  add  one  pint  of  cream,  put  in  jour 
oysteiB  you  had  taken  care  of  the  last  thing,  just  boiling  them  up  in 
the  soup  ;  having  passed  it  through  a  tammy,  season  it  with  cayenne 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  small  piece  of  sugar. 


71. — SKATE   SOUP. 

This  is  made  of  stock  as  just  described,  save  that  the  proportion 
of  skate  should  be  increased.  Add  an  ounce  of  vermicelli  to  the 
soup  which  must  be  boiled  for  an  hour.  AVben  ready  to  serve,  beat 
np  the  yolks  of  a  couple  of  eggs  in  half  a  pint  of  cream,  add  it  to 
the  soup ;  heat  a  French  roll  through,  soak  it  in  the  soup  when  the 
vermicelli  is  added,  and  serve  with  it 


72. — BROTH,  FISH. 

Set  water  over  the  fire  in  a  kettle,  according  to  the  quantity  ci 
broth  to  be  made,  put  in  the  roots  of  parsley,  parsnip,  and  whole 
onions,  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  sorrel,  and 
butter ;  let  Sae  whole  be  well  seasoned ;  then  put  in  the  bones  and 
carcases  of  the  fish,  the  flesh  of  which  you  have  used  for  fiucea,  also 
llie  tripes,  the  tails  of  cray-fish  pounded  in  a  mortar,  and  four  or  five 
spoonfuls  of  the  juice  of  onions ;  let  these  be  well  seasoned  and 
Doiled,  then  strained  through  a  sieve,  put  it  back  into  the  kettle,  and 
keep  it  hot  to  simmer  your  soups  and  boil  your  fisL 


73. — QUENELLE   SOUPS   OF   ALL   KINDS. 

The  quenelles  must  be  added  after  being  boiled,  at  the  last,  to  your 
soup. 


74. — MILK   SOUP. 

Put  into  a  quart  of  milk  two  table-spoonfuls  of  moist  sugar,  two 
bay  leaves,  and  a  little  cinnamon ;  boil  it,  pour  it  into  a  dish  in  which 
you  have  previously  laid  some  sippets  of  toasted  bread :  simmer  over 
a  charcoal  fire  when  the  bread  is  soft ;  mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
well  beaten  with  a  little  milk ;  put  it  in  the  soup,  mix  well  all  together, 
and  eerve  up. 


TEOETABLE  SOUPS. 

75. — ^VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

There  are  numerous  methods  of  making  this  soup,  the  variations 
depending  upon  the  omission  or  addition  of  certain  vegetables,  and 
in  the  mode  of  serving  the  soup  with  them  or  without  them.  The 
following  is  as  simple  and  as  palatable  as  any.' 


VEGETABLE   SOUPS.  66 


Collect  whatever  vegetables  are  in  season,  take  equal  quantities, 
turnips,  carrots,  cabbage,  spinach,  celeiy,  parsley,  onion,  a  little 
xmnt,  &c.,  add  plenty  of  herbs,  cut  them  fine^  put  them  into  the 
stewpan,  in  which  has  previously  been  placed  some  oil ;  stew  gently 
until  the  vegetables  become  tender,  then  add  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water;  stew  a  quarter  of  an  hour  and  serve. 

Soma  cooks  advocate  the  introduction  of  peas,  green  or  white,  to 
this  soup :  where  they  are  used,  they  must  be  boiled  until  tender  in 
Tery  little  water,  then  mashed  hito  a  veiy  loose  paste;  the  vegetables 
having  been  scalded  are  then  added,  and  two  hours  will  suffice  for 
stewing,  season  it  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Be  careftd  that  it  does  not  burn  while  cooking,  or  the  whole  is 
foiled. 

76. ABTICHOKE    (CALLED    PALESTINE)    SOUP. 

About  six  pounds  of  Jerusalem  artichokes,  pared  and  cut  into 
small  pieces,  three  turnips,  a  head  of  wliite  celery,  put  sufficient  good 
white  stock  to  cover  the  artichokes,  let  it  boil  until  quite  tender,  then 
rub  all  through  a  tammy ;  if  too  thick,  thin  it  with  good  sweet  milk ; 
bofl  all  together,  add  half  a  pint  of  cream,  season  with  sugar,  salt, 

~  cayenne  pepper. 

Send  npon  a  napkin  some  nice  fried  bread,  cut  in  small  dice,  hot. 


77. ^ASPARAGUS  SOUP  WITH  GREEN  PEAS. 

Make  a  soup  of  roots,  and  when  strained,  boil  a  pint  of  green  peas 
in  the  liquor.  Choose  some  middling  sized  asparagus,  cut  them  in 
pieces  about  three  inches  long,  blanch  them  in  boiling  water,  and 
then  throw  them  into  cold  water ;  drain  them  and  tie  them  in  small 
fannches,  split  the  tops  and  boil  them  with  the  peas.  When  done, 
XDake  a  pur^  of  them  and  mix  it  with  the  root  soup,  and  gurnisli 
with  the  asparagus.  Good  meat  broth  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
root  soup. 


78. — SOUP   DE   L^ASPEP.OE. 

Cot  into  thin  slices  half  a  pound  of  bacon,  lay  them  in  the  bottom 
of  a  stewpan,  cut  into  lumps  six  pounds  of  lean  beef  and  roll  it  well 
in  floor,  cover  the  pan  close,  shake  occasionally  until  the  gravy  is  all 
dnwn,  then  add  half  a  pint  of  old  ale  and  two  quarts  of  water,  throw 
in  some  whole  peppers  and  a  spoonful  of  salt,  stew  gently  for  an  hour, 
aldm  the  fat,  and  when  an  hour  has  elapsed  strain  off  the  soup,  then 
put  in  it  some  spinach,  two  cabbage  lettuces,  the  leaves  of  white 
beet,  a  little  mint,  powdered  sweet  aroma  and  sorrel,  boil  Uiera, 
then  put  in  the  tops  of  asparagus  cut  small,  when  they  are  tender  the 
80Qp  IS  done,  serve  up  hot  witii  a  French  roll  in  the  middle. 


79. — ASPARAGUS  SOUP  (cLEAR). 

Blanch  two  hundred  tops  of  asparagus  and  boil  them  in  a  good 
gavy,  mm  with  sippets  of  bread  just  hardened  by  the  fire. 


66  VEGETABLE  SOUPS. 


80.— CABBAGE   SOUP. 

^'  Cut  your  cabbage  into  four  parts,  then  let  them  be  partly  boiled, 
squeeze  them  dry  and  place  them  in  a  large  brass  pan  or  dish,  so  that 
there  may  be  room  betwixt  each  piece  of  cabbage  to  take  up  soup 
with  a  large  spoon,  then  let  them  boil  with  as  much  gravy  or  stock 
as  will  cover  Uiem ;  let  them  stew  for  two  hours  before  dmner,  then 
put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  a  handful  of  flour  into  a 
saucepan,  set  it  over  a  fire  and,  keeping  it  stirred,  add  two  onions 
minced  and  stir  it  again,  then  add  a  quart  of  veal  gravy,  boil  it  a 
little  and  pour  it  all  over  the  cabbage.  If  you  choose  you  may  force 
pigeons  with  good  force-meat  made  of  veal ;  fry  them,  and  then  stew 
them  with  the  cabbage,  putting  in  with  them  a  little  bacon  stuck 
with  cloves,  when  it  has  stewed  away  take  off  the  fat,  soak  bread  in 
your  dish  with  gravy  or  stock,  place  your  fowl  in  the  middle  and  the 
cabbage  all  round,  garnish  the  dish  with  slices  of  bacon  and  a  little 
cabbage  between  each  slice. 


81. — CABBAGE    soup. 

Take  four  or  six  pounds  of  beef,  boil  with  it  some  black  pewMnr 
whole  for  three  hours,  cut  three  or  four  cabbages  in  quarters,  ooil 
them  until  they  are  quite  tender,  turn  them  into  a  di^,  and  serve 
all  together. 

82. — CARROT  SOUP. 

Take  a  proportionate  number  of  carrots  to  the  quantity  of  soup  to 
be  made,  if  a  small  quantity  six  will  suffice ;  they  should  be  large 
and  of  a  rich  colour,  cut  them  after  being  thoroughly  scraped  into 
thin  slices,  stew  them  in  some  rich  stock,  say  two  quarts,  until  they 
are  tender  through,  then  force  them  through  a  sieve  or  tammj 
with  a  wooden  spoon  until  a  red  pulp  is  deposited,  re-boil  it  with  the 
stock  until  it  is  rich  and  thick,  season  with  grated  white  sugar, 
cayenne  pepper,  and  salt. 


83. SOUP  A  LA  CRECf,  OR  CARROT  SOUP. 

Cut  half  a  pound  of  lean  ham  in  dice,  three  onions,  four  turnips, 
twelve  carrots,  the  outer  side  red  only,  a  head  of  celery,  a  faggot  of 
sweet  herbs,  two  blades  of  mace,  six  cloves,  a  bay  leaf,  and  half  a 
pound  of  salt  butter;  fry  all  well  down  in  a  stew-pan  until  they  get  a 
little  brown,  then  add  some  second  stock,  and  stew  until  all  the  roots 
are  quite  tender,  then  rub  it  through  a  tammy  sieve  or  tammy  cloth 
with  two  long  spoons ;  if  very  thick,  add  more  stock.  Season  with 
cayenne  and  black  pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  good  bit  of  sugar ;  send 
up  on  a  napkin  some  nice  fried  bread  cut  in  small  dice,  and  not 
greasy. 


84.— SOUP  CRECI. 

Cut  four  onions  in  slices,  grate  the  same  number  of  carrots,  cat  nf 


VEGETABLE  SOUPS.  57 


three  lettuces,  to  which  may  be  added  a  little  chervil ;  lay  them  in  a 
stewpan,  add  a  piece  of  butter,  a  pint  of  lintels,  and  last  of  all  one 
pint  of  broth,  simmer  for  half  an  hour,  fill  up  \Tith  good  white  stock, 
in  which  a  little  rice  has  been  boiled,  boil  for  an  hour,  take  the 
crumbs  of  two  French  rolls,  soak  them  in  the  stock,  rub  the  whole 
through  a  tammy  with  wooden  spoons,  serve  in  a  soup  tureen  when 
about  the  thickness  of  pea  soup. 


85.— CELERY  SOUP. 

Stew  fine  white  celeiy  cut  in  small  slips  in  gravy,  then  boil  it  in 
good  gravy. 


86. — HERB    SOUP. 

Slice  three  large  but  young  cucumbers,  a  liaiidful  of  spring  onions, 
and  six  lettuces,  cut  the  last  small.  Put  into  a  ste^-pan  eight  ounces 
of  butter,  and  with  it  the  above  vegetables ;  when  the  butter  has 
melted,  cover,  and  let  it  stand  over  a  slow  fire  an  hour  and  twenty 
minutes.  Add  as  much  stock  as  may  be  required  for  the  quantity  of 
soap  intended  to  be  served,  let  it  be  boiling  and  simmer  for  an  hour, 
thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  or  three  table  spoonfuls  of  cream.  If 
required  to  be  coloured  use  spinach  juice. 


'    87. — HOTCU    POTCH. 

Put  a  pint  of  peas  into  a  quart  of  water,  boil  them  until  they  are 
80  tender  as  easily  to  be  pulped  through  a  sieve.  Take  of  the  leanest 
end  of  a  loin  of  mutton  three  pounds,  cut  it  into  chops,  put  it  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  gallon  of  water,  four  carrots,  four  turnips  cut  in  small 
pieoes,  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  until  all  the  vegetables  are 
qoite  tender,  put  in  the  pulped  peas  a  head  of  celer}'  and  an  onion 
diced,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  and  sen-e. 


88. — ITALIENNE. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  a  spoonful  of  shred  parsley,  half  a  spoonful 
of  shalots,  the  same  of  mushroom  ;  shred  fine  half  a  bottle  of  white 
wine,  and  an  ounce  of  butter ;  boil  this  till  no  moisture  remains, 
then  pat  two  ladlefuls  of  velout^,  and  one  of  consomm6,  set  to  boil, 
take  care  to  skim  off  all  the  fat ;  when  you  find  it  alx)ut  the  consistence 
of  clear  bxoth,  take  it  from  the  fire,  put  it  into  another  vessel,  and 
keep  it  hot,  as  in  bain  marie. 


89. — SOUP  A  l'italienne. 

Cut  eeleiy,  onions,  turnips,  carrots,  leeks,  in  long  shreds,  boil  them 
until  ffaey  are  tender,  put  them  into  some  clear  gravy  soup,  with 
blown  thickening,  boil  it,  and  when  enough,  put  in  sippets  of  lightly 
toasted  bread,  a  glass  of  port  wine ;  toast  a  French  roll  whole,  and 
it  up  in  the  middle  of  the  tureen. 


58  TSGETABUS  SOUPS. 


In  the  season  may  be  added  French  beans,  sorrel,  bntton  onkms, 
asparagus  tops,  and  green  peas. 

90. — SOUP  JULUENNE. 

Is  similar  to  saut^,  only  add  spinach  and  lettace,  or  any  vegetable 
that  may  be  in  season. 


91. — SCOTCH   LEE£   SOUP. 

Take  a  dozen  leeks,  simmer  them  in  two  quarts  of  the  liquor  in 
which  a  leg  of  mutton  has  been  boiled.  Mix  one  tea-spoonful  of 
oatmeal  in  cold  water  until  it  is  very  smooth,  thicken  the  soup  with 
it,  season  and  serve. 


92. ONIOK   SOUP. 

In  two  quarts  of  weak  mutton  broth  slice  two  turnips  and  as  many 
carrots,  strain  it.  Fry  six  onions  cut  in  slices,  when  nicely  browned 
add  them  to  the  broth :  simmer  three  hours  ;  skim  and  serve. 


93. SOUP   OP   SPANISH    ONIONS. 

Put  in  a  stewpan  with  fom:  Spanish  onions,  foiur  ounces  of  butter, 
a  head  of  celery,  a  large  turnip,  a  quart  of  white  gravy,  and  stew  tmtfl 
the  onions  are  quite  tender,  add  another  quart  of  gravy  and  strain. 
Pulp  the  vegetables,  return  them  to  the  soup,  boil  for  half  an  hour. 
Keep  constantly  stirring,  immediately  nrevious  to  serving  thicken 
with  rice  flom:  worked  in  butter. 


94. PEA    SOUP. 

Boil  to  a  pulp  two  quarts  of  peas,  strain  them,  place  in  a  stewps& 
four  ounces  of  butter,  add  two  anchovies,  a  table-epoonful  of  pom&ded 
pepper,  twice  that  quantity  of  salt,  a  small  handful  of  patal^  and 
mint,  a  little  beet-root  and  spinach,  stew  until  tender.  Add  pulped 
peas  until  the  soup  is  of  the  required  consistency,  throw  in  a  spoonful 
hi  loaf  sugar,  boil  up  and  serve, 

95. — ^ANOTHEB   WAT. 

Wash  in  dean  water,  cold,  a  quart  of  split  peas,  drain  them,  tie 
them  up  in  a  white  doth,  boil  them  half  an  hour  in  soft  water  sufficient 
to  cover  them,  then  take  them  out,  and  having  placed  them  in  a  cauioe- 
pan  with  three  quarts  of  water  in  which  salt  meat  has  been  boiled,  if  too 
salt  moderate  it  with  fresh  water,  but  do  not  let  it  exceed  three  quarts, 
then  put  in  the  following  roots,  two  whole  onions,  a  head  of  celery 
cut  in  small  pieces,  a  sprig  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  carrot  Simmer 
gently  until  the  peas  are  very  tender,  stir  it  occasionally  to  prsTcnt 
bntbii^.  When  the  peas  are  sufficiently  soft,  pulp  Uiem  ikroagh  a 
seive,  mix  them  with  the  soup,  and  season  with  black  pepper*  Toast 
bread,  cut  it  into  squares,  and  serve  with  the  soup,  as  wdi  as  a  didi 
of  dried  pounded  mint. 


VEGETABLE  SOUPS.  59 


The  stock  for  this  soup  may  be  made  of  the  bones  of  any  salted 
meat.  A  ham  bone  boiled  Tvith  the  soup  is  very  seniceable  if  the 
liquor  of  salt  meat  is  not  to  be  had. 


96. — GBEEN    PEA   SOUP. 

Cut  down  in  thin  pieces  two  heads  of  celery,  a  good  piece  of  mint, 
two  carrots,  two  turnips,  twelve  green  onions,  a  little  parsley,  and 
two  quarts  of  peas,  two  lettuces,  a  handful  of  spinach,  sweat  all 
down  with  two  quarts  of  good  second  stock,  let  stew  until  tender, 
then  rub  all  through  a  tammy ;  have  a  few  young  peas,  boiled  green, 
strained  off  and  put  in  your  tureen ;  if  not  a  good  green,  add  some 
green  colouring  from  spinach  juice  to  it  the  last  thing  before 
serving  up ;  season  with  a  good  bit  of  sugar,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Send  up  fried  bread  cut  in  dice,  as  before. 


97. — GREEN  PEA  SOUP. 

Cut  up  three  Cos  lettuces,  pare  and  slice  three  cucumbers,  add  a 
pint  of  yoimg  peas,  a  sprig  of  mint,  an  onion,  and  a  little  parsley ; 
put  all  together  in  a  saucepan,  add  four  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  stow 
for  half  an  hour,  pour  on  them  a  quart  of  thin  gravy,  stew  two  hours, 
thicken  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flom:. 


98. DRIED    GREEN   PEA   SOUP. 

Put  three  pints  of  split  green  peas  in  some  soft  water  with  a  piece 
cf  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  simmer  until  they  are  soft  enough  to 
po^  through  a  colander,  then  add  boiling  water  to  make  the  soup, 
put  in  a  lettuce,  and  colour  with  spinach  juice.  Keep  it  simmering 
■ntil  it  is  ready  for  use,  thicken  it  with  butter  and  flour,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  sugar. 

Tske  out  the  lettuce  before  sending  to  table,  and  send  up  some 
joang  green  peas  in  its  place.  They  must  be  boiled  until  tender 
before  putting  in  the  soup,  and  should  be  added  only  just  before 
sexring. 


99. — CLEAR   PEA   SOUP. 

Boil  in  two  quarts  of  gravy  a  quart  of  young  peas,  add  a  lettuce  cut 
fine,  and  a  small  spng  of  mint. 


100. — PEPPER  POT. 

Pat  in  a  stewpan  three  quarts  of  water,  to  this  add  celery,  turnips, 
canots,  lettuces,  cut  small,  add  the  bones  of  cold  roast  meat  of  any 
Jeniiplion,  half  a  pound  of  bacon,  the  same  weight  of  salted  pork ; 
gently  until  the  meat  is  tender,  taking  care  to  skim  when  it  iirst 


Boa  half  a  peck  of  spinach  and  rub  it  throu^  a  colander,  take 
the  bones  out  of  the  soup  and  add  the  spinach,  with  it  the  meat  of  a 


60  VEGETABLE  SOUPS. 


lobster  or  crab  minced,  season  with  plenty  of  cayenne  pepper,  and 
salt  to  taste. 

Suet  dumplings  may  be  boiled  with  it,  or  a  fowl,  but  this  is  matter 
of  taste.  Mutton  or  beef  may  be  substituted  for  bacon  or  pork,  this 
will  be  obvious  when  it  is  understood  that  a  pepper  pot  is  presumed 
to  consist  of  an  equal  proportion  of  fleshy  fish,  fowl,  and  vegetables. ! 


101. — POTATO  soup. 

Put  into  a  stewpan  three  pints  of  white  stock,  take  six  large 
potatoes,  boil  them  until  they  are  nearly  done,  they  must  be  mealy, 
cut  them  in  slices  until  they  are  sufficiently  tender  to  pulp  through  a 
sieve,  with  an  onion  boiled  soft  enough  for  the  same  purpose.  Thicken 
with  flour  and  butter,  season  with  white  pepper,  cayenne,  and  salt. 
To  add  to  the  flavour  cream  should  be  added,  half  a  tea-cupM 
previous  to  serving,  but  must  not  be  permitted  to  boil  after  adding. 


102. — RICE   SOUP. 

Steep  some  fine  rice  in  cold  water  for  an  hour,  say  four  ounces, 
then  boil  it,  add  three  quarts  of  gravy,  add  a  pinch  of  cayeime,  a 
little  salt,  and  boil  five  minutes. 


103. SAUTE    SOUP. 

Cut  carrots,  and  turnips,  and  onions,  and  celery,  as  straws,  about 
one  inch  long,  quite  thin ;  the  carrots  you  will  trim,  using  only  the 
red  part,  the  yellow  that  is  left  use  for  your  stock  pot;  cut  your 
onions  in  quarters,  then  cut  them  the  size  endways,  blanch  them  for 
two  or  three  minutes,  strain  them  on  the  back  of  a  hair  sieve  to  drain, 
then  add  them  to  the  quantity  of  soup  required,  allowing  half  a  pint 
to  each  person ;  therefore,  as  you  must  so  reduce  it  to  have  the  flavour 
of  your  vegetables,  allow  a  pint  more,  reducing  it  to  the  quantity  you 
require ;  season  it  with  lump  sugar,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt ;  be 
sure  and  not  go  to  the  extreme. 


104. — SOUP    MAIZE. 

Melt  half  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  add  four  heads  of  celeiy, 
the  outside  stalks,  if  well  cleaued,  will  be  of  service ;  slice  five  onions 
and  throw  in  with  twenty  or  thirty  sprigs  of  spinach,  cut  up  four 
turnips,  and  add  sweet  herbs  and  parsley ;  simmer  for  three  quarters 
of  an  hour,  pour  in  five  pints  of  water,  stew  for  half  an  hour,  serve 
with  sippets  of  toasted  bread. 

105. — SPRINO   SOUP. 

As  saut^ ;  the  same  roots  cut  diflerently,  and  add,  if  to  be  had, 
spinach,  cabbage-lettuce,  a  very  little  sorrel,  as  it  turns  acid  on  the 
stomach,  all  cut  rather  small,  tarragon,  chervil,  green  asparagus, 
young  peas,  cucumbers;  cut  the  asparagus  about  one  inch  long,  cut 
the  tarragon  and  chervil  a  little,  and  a  few  French  beans  out,  use 


VEGETABLE   SOUPS.  61 


your  oossomm^  stock  as  before,  boiling  all  your  green  parts  particularly 
green  in  water  a  few  minutes,  leaving  them  to  be  sufficiently  done  in 
your  stock ;  if  you  have  a  cauliflower  boiled,  pick  a  few  small  pieces 
and  put  in  the  soup-tureen ;  the  boiling  soup  when  poured  in  will 
make  it  hot ;  season  as  before. 


106. — SPRING  SOUP 

Is  made  as  No.  89,  with  the  addition  of  lettuce  and  chervil,  and 
instead  of  cutting  the  vegetables  in  shreds  cut  them  in  dice. 


107.— SOUP  BORBEL. — A   SUMMER  SOUP. 

Take  a  good  quantity  of  sorrel,  and  mix  with  it  the  top  leaves  of 
beet*root;  boil  them  thoroughly,  press  them  enough  to  extract  all  the 
"water,  and  chop  them  until  they  are  almost  a  paste;  when  they  are 
quite  cold,  add  the  coldest  spring  water  attainable,  and  mix  until 
latfaer  thicker  than  cream ;  cut  in  thin  slices  two  cucumbers  steeped 
in  a  mixture  of  vinegar  and  a  little  cayenne ;  boil  three  eggs  hard, 
and  cnt  them  in  veiy  small  pieces :  now,  having  chopped  the  green 
ends  of  yonng  onions  small,  and  added  to  the  paste,  pour  over  cream 
to  your  taste,  and  then  add  the  sliced  cucumber  and  boiled  egg;  serve 
up  gamiahed  with  clean  white  pieces  of  ice. 


108. — TOMATA   SOUP. 

SUce  two  onions  and  fry  them  in  butter  until  brown,  remove  them 
and  fry  two  dozen  tomatoes  just  sufficient  to  heat  them  through,  then 
put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  their  gravy  and  the  onions,  add  a]  head  of 
eeleiy  and  a  carrot  sUced,  stew  gently  for  half  an  hour,  add  three  pints 
of  gravy,  stew  an  hour  and  a  half,  pulp  the  whole  of  the  vegetables 
throagh  a  sieve,  season  with  white  pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne,  serve 
mfii  sippets  of  toasted  bread  cut  in  shapes. 

109. TURNIP   SOUP. 

Tins  soup  should  be  made  the  day  before  required.     Stew  a 
knnekle  of  veal  with  an  onion,  sweet  herbs,  and  a  little  mace,  in  six 

Sits  of  water ;  cover  down  close  and  stew  gently  five  or  six  hours, 
it  be  pat  in  a  cool  place.  Before  warming  remove  the  fat  and 
iBdiment,  slice  six  turnips  into  small  pieces,  stew  them  in  the  gravy 
Vit3  tender,  add  half  a  pint  of  cream,  flour,  and  butter,  season  with 
Vuits  pepper. 

110. — PUR6e   of  TURNIP   SOUP. 

Oet  a  bunch  of  turnips,  pare  them  and  cut  them  in  thin  slices,  one 
head  of  white  celery,  one  onion,  fill  up  your  stewpan  with  good  second 
iridte  stock,  boil  them  until  quite  tender,  then  pass  it  all  through  a 
tunmy  by  rubbing  it  with  wooden  spoons,  or  a  tammy  sieve,  season 
with  sogsTy  cayenne,  and  salt.  Send  up  fried  bread,  as  for  former 
sonps;  add  half  a  pint  of  cream  the  last  thing. 


CHAPTER  HI. 
HEATS. 


ODSBBTATIOJtS  OIT   HEATB. 

How  to  choose,  and  tfao  best  ports  tackooae  of  meats,  are  given 
under  their  appropriate  heada;  we  will  come  at  once,  therefiire,  to  tbe 
proiress  of  cooking  nhen.  they  have  been  choaen. 

If  the  meat  has  to  be  roasted,  a  dear  fire  is  indispensable ;  and 
the  fire  should  also  be  maintained  at  one  uniform  heat  bj  the  adfr 
tion  of  coal,  only  in  small  quantities.  If  the  Joint  is  large,  it  shoald 
be  commenced  as  fiur  from  the  &re  as  tbu  apparatus  will  panait,  ai^ 
as  it  progresses  gradually  be  moved  nearer  the  fire  until  done,  this  will 
ensure,  in  large  and  thick  joints,  the  heart  of  the  meat  being  properij 
done,  while  it  prevents. the  outer  parts  irom  being  cooked  to  a  chip. 
A  small  joint  should  have  a  brisR  fire,  should  be  well  basted,  as 
also  larger  joints  ;  it  should  be  sprinkled  with  salt,  and  dredged  with 
flour  when  three  parts  cooked,  but  it  should  be  remembered  that  this 
most  not  be  left  until  the  meat  b  jnst  cooked,  for  the  fire  is  apt  to 
catch  the  Sour,  and  give  it  a  moot  disagreeable  flavour. 

There  an  a  rariety  of  opinions  respecting  the  vmsbing  of  meat 


MEATS.  63 

previous  to  roasting.  Many  old  and  experienced  cooks  declare 
that  it  destroys  the  flarour  of  meat  Professors  of  the  art,  however, 
hold  a  contrary  opinion.  I  am  not  disposed,  from  my  experience  to 
difiier  so  essentially  from  them  as  to  advise  meat  to  be  roasted  with- 
out this  operation,  bat  should  advise  that  the  meat  be  not  suffered 
to  remain  too  long  in  ^e  water,  unless  frost-bitten,  and  then  it  should 
soak  an  hoar  or  two  previous  to  cookiiig. 

The  time  necessary  for  cooking  a  joint  must  depend,  of  course, 
upon  the  weight  of  the  joint  to  be  ix)asted ;  experience  gives  not 
less  than  fifteen  minutes  to  each  pound  of  meat ;  where  the  quantity 
is  yeiy  large  an  extra  two  or  three  minutes  must  1)e  given,  but  so 
much  depends  upon  the  state  of  the  lire,  and  the  attention  directed 
to  the  joint  while  cooking,  that  the  judgment  must  be  exercised ; 
alUiougb  the  above  calculation  may  be  taken  as  a  general  rule,  giving 
time  for  any  drawback  which  may  occur. 

In  bailing  meat,  as  much  attention  must  be  paid  as  in  any  other 
yDceeB ;-  if  the  joint  be  permitted  to  boil  too  nipidly,  the  cook  may 
be  sstiBfied  the  meat  will  go  to  table  as  hard  as  it  coidd  be  wished  to 
be  tender ;  if  while  cooking  it  should  be  allowed  to  stop  boiling,  it 
wSL  proTe  underdone  when  cut.  oven  though  more  tlian  the  usual 
time  be  allowed  for  it  to  be  cooked.  The  meat  generally  is  better 
jbrbeinff  soaked  a  short  time,  and  then  wrapping  it  in  a  doth  well 
floored,  if  fresh ;  if  salt,  the  water  should  be  kept  free  from  scum  as 
ftst  as  it  appears.  All  joints  to  be  lM}iIed  should  bo  put  into  cold 
niter  and  heated  gradually,  and  nothing  boiled  with  it  save  a  dump- 
li^,  or  if  beef,  carrots  or  parsnips. 

nOAST  ME.^TS. 

In  ereiy  case  where  meat  is  washed  before  roasting,  it  should  be 
well  dried  before  it  is  put  down  to  the  fire,  wliich  must  be  kept  clear, 
tanked  up  to  the  height  it  is  intended  to  keep  it,  and  kept  at  that 
hei^t  tu^il  the  meat  is  sufficiently  cooked  ;  remember  the  regula- 
tion of  gradually  advancing  Hie  meat  nearer  to  the  fire  while  it  i» 
cooking,  baste  with  a  little  milk  and  water,  or  salt  and  water  first,  but 
18  soon  as  the  fat  begins  to  fall  from  the  meat,  put  down  a  clean  dish 
ind  then  baste  with  the  dripping  as  it  falls ;  the  meat  should  not  be 
iprinkled  with  salt  until  nearly  cooked,  or  too  much  gravy  will  be 
nodneed.  Preserve  the  dripping ;  pour  it  from  the  dish  into  some 
boiling  water,  leave  it  to  cool.  When  cold  it  will  be  hard,  white,  and 
aU  the  impurities  will  be  deposited  at  the  bottom.  It  occasionally 
bispens  that  the  joint  cannot  be  sent  to  table  as  soon  as  cooked ;  in 
ACQ  case  place  it  on  a  dish  upon  a  fish  kettle  of  boiling  water ;  place 
over  it  a  ush  cover,  and  spr^  over  all  a  cloth ;  the  meat  \>ill  thus 
ke  kept  IB  hot  as  if  placed  before  a  fire,  but  will  not  be  dried,  nor 
lai  the  gmvy  be  evaporated. 

BOILING. 

Tho  leaned  in  the  art  of  boiling  recommend  different  times  for 
tte  ooa^Btkn  of  the  process,  some  allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  each 


64  HBAT8. 

pound,  others  twenty.  All  the  heat  aathorities  agree  in  this,  that 
the  longer  the  hoiling  the  more  perfect  the  operation. 

When  taken  from  the  pot  the  meat  most  he  wiped ;  some  use  a 
dean  cloth,  but  the  best  way  is  to  have  a  sponge  previously  dipped 
in  warm  water,  and  wrung  diy ;  this  is  also  more  convenient.  Be 
careful  not  to  let  the  meat  stand,  but  send  it  to  table  as  quick  as 
possible,  or  it  will  darken  and  become  hard.  Boiled  meat,  as  wdl 
as  roast,  cannot  be  served  too  hot 

The  operation  of  boiling  is  generally  treated  as  a  department  that 
requires  no  art  at  all.  Hence  it  is  that  a  leg  of  mutton  is  called 
spoiled  when  boiled,  which  is  to  be  traced  to  the  bad  management  of 
^e  pot. 

Hard  water  is  improper  to  boil  meat  in,  and  where  soft  water  is 
to  be  procured,  should  not  be  thought  of ;  as  a  cook  cannot  do  jnstioe 
to  her  skill,  if  she  is  ever  so  attentive. 

It  is  now  an  established  fact  among  the  best  judges  that  the  meat 
should  be  put  in  cold  water,  and  not  in  hot,  unless  for  a  special 

Eurpose,  as  that  renders  it  dark  and  hard ;  cooks  should  be  carefbl 
ow  they  manage  the  form  of  certain  meat  for  the  pot,  by  skewering 
or  tying  it,  so  as  to  make  it  equal  in  all  parts ;  for  where  one  part 
is  thick,  and  the  other  thin,  the  latter  would  be  overdone  before  the 
thicker  parts  are  acted  upon  by  the  boiling  water.  All  meats  are 
best  cooked  by  boiling  gently,  as  fast  boiling  spoils  the  meat  and 
does  it  no  quicker.  Salted  meats  should  most  particularly  be  slowly 
boiled — in  fact  it  should  scarcely  simmer;  it  is  indispensable  that 
the  water  should  cover  the  meat,  consequently  the  dimensions  of  the 
pot  should  be  suited  to  the  bulk  of  the  joint. 

Large  joints,  as  rumps  and  rounds  of  beef,  should  be  boiled  in  a 
copper.  It  is  less  difficult  to  regulate  the  heat  of  a  copper  fire  than 
that  of  a  kitchen  range.  Meat,  before  boiling  or  roasting,  should  be 
washed,  as  all  meat  is  improved  in  colour  by  soaking.  For  roasting, 
it  should  be  wiped  before  it  is  put  in  the  oven  or  on  the  spit ;  it  is 
impossible  to  boil  properly  without  skimming  the  pot  The  instant 
the  pot  boils,  it  should  be  skimmed  and  followed  up  as  the  scmn 
rises. 

It  will  be  seen  that  the  above  remarks  apply  to  those  who  have 
not  been  able  to  avail  themselves  of  the  many  advantages  the 
numerous  improvements  in  cooking  apparatus  present. 


BBOILING. 

The  cook  must  prepare  her  fire  in  due  time.  When  ready,  it 
should  be  clear  and  bright,  so  clear  from  black  coal  and  smoke  that 
the  chop  or  steak  may  come  from  the  gridiron  without  blemish  or  taint 
of  sulphur  or  smoke.  The  best  fiiel  for  a  broil  is  composed  of  chaitXMd 
and  coke,  as  little  smoke  is  emitted  fix)m  either,  even  on  commencing 
the  fire,  and  when  well  ignited,  it  is  entirely  free  from  it;  coke  added  to 
a  brisk  coal  fire,  also  bums  bright,  and  is  well  suited  for  the  operation, 
though  with  care  a  proper  fire  may  be  made  of  good  sea  coal.  There  is 
this  amongst  other  disadvantages,  in  cutting  too  thick  a  steak,  the  out- 


BBEF«  65 

side  18  likely  to  be  scorched  to  homy  hardness  before  the  interior  is 
half  cooked ;  hence,  to  say  nothing  of  the  misery  of  those  who  hare 
not  large  mouths,  the  disappointed  epicure  must  either  wait  until  it  is 
put  again  on  the  gridiron,  or  instead  of  eating  it  rare,  be  constrained 
to  eat  it  raw.  No  gridiron  should  be  used  but  those  with  fluted  bars, 
which,  forming  channels,  the  greater  part  of  the  fat  which  otherwise 
fidb  into  the  fire,  and  scorches  the  steak,  is  draD^'n  off  into  a  gutter 
at  the  bottom,  the  gridiron  should  be  thoroughly  heated,  and  tho 
ban  rabbed  with  beef  or  mutton  suet  previously  to  putting  on  the 
steak,  to  prevent  its  being  marked  by,  or  adhering  to,  the  bars.  A 
ckee  eye  should  be  kept  on  the  steak  to  watch  the  moment  for 
turning  it,  which  is  repeatedly  done  during  the  process;  broiling 
tongs  of  convenient  size  should  be  used,  with  which,  by  a  little  prac- 
tice, the  steak  may  be  turned  with  ease  and  despatch;  the  cook 
must  have  her  dish  thoroughly  heated  to  receive  the  broil  when  done, 
and  the  cover  hot  to  place  upon  it  instantly.  Even  when  she  has 
accomplished  her  task,  if  the  sen'ant  who  is  to  take  it  to  table  loiters 
<m  the  way,  the  steak  will  have  lost  its  zest.  A  steak  or  chop 
dioold  be  briskly  cooked,  speedily  conveyed  to  table,  and  served  with 
despatch. 

Ill . BOAST  BEEF. 

There  exists  a  variety  of  tastes  and  opinions  respecting  the  most 
pn^table,  as  well  as  the  choicest,  parts  of  beef,  but  many  of  them 
are  choice  and  profitable  too  if  cooked  with  skill ;  the  primest  parts 
are  roasted,  except  the  round,  which  should  be  boiled;  the  ribs  make 
tbe  finest  roasting  joint 

Where  a  small  quantity  is  required,  it  is  better  for  the  bones  to  be 
cot  oat  and  the  meat  rolled;  this  should  be  done  by  the  butcher,  who 
vin  not  only  cut  cleaner,  but  skewer  the  parts  into  a  fillet  with 
Boro  fimmess  and  neatness  than  the  cook,  who  is  not  expected  to  be 
as  expert  with  the  knife  and  skewer  as  the  butcher.  The  tops  of  the 
nba  are  firequently  cut  off  into  pieces  of  three  or  four  pounds ;  this 
piece,  thou^  occasionaUy  roasted,  should  be  salted ;  it  is  then  not 
Qolike  in  flayour  to  the  brisket. 

In  roasting  the  ribs,  or  any  piece  of  beef,  the  precautions  men- 
ficmed  respecting  placing  it  too  near  the  fire  must  be  observed,  and 
vfaere  there  is  much  fat,  and  it  is  desired  to  preserve  it  from  being 
cooked  before  the  lean,  it  may  be  covered  with  clean  white  paper 
skewered  over  it ;  when  it  is  nearly  done  the  paper  should  be  removed, 
a  little  floor  dredged  over  it,  and  a  rich  frothy  appearance  will  be 
obtained.  The  joint  should  be  sensed  up  with  potatoes  and  other 
vegetables ;  the  dish  should  be  garnished  round  the  edge  with  horse- 
ndish  scraped  into  thin  curls.  This  receipt  will  suflice  for  all  the 
other  roasting  parts  of  beef. 

112. — TO   CX)LLAB   BEEF. 

Choose  the  thinnest  end  of  the  flank  of  beef,  it  must  not  be  too  fat 
or  loo  lean,  the  weight  will  be  from  eight  to  ten  pounds,  let  it  hang 


M 


iu  a  oool  place  twentj-foor  hoars,  when  the  skin  appears  moiat,  mb 
in  some  coarse  hrown  sugar,  and  in  forty-eight  hours  afterwards  jrou 
may  place  it  in  a  pan  in  which  there  is  a  brine,  made  of  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  salt  and  an  ounce  and  a  half  extract  of  saltpetre,  rub  it 
well  with  the  brine  for  a  week,  take  out  the  bones,  the  gristle,  and 
the  inner  skin. 

Make  a  seasoning  of  sweet  herbs,  parsley,  sage,  pepper,  ground 
apioe,  and  salt,  cover  the  beef  well  with  it,  roll  it  in  a  cloth,  and  tie 
firmly  and  securely  with  broad  tape ;  boil  it  six  hours,  but  boil 
gently,  take  it  out,  and  while  hot,  and  without  disturbing  the  fftsten- 
ings,  place  upon  it  a  weight,  that  when  cold  and  unrolled  it  may 
retaia  its  shape. 

113.-<-T0   COOK  THB  INSIDE  OV  A  SIRLOIN. 

Take  out  the  inside  of  the  sirloin  in  one  piece,  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pan,  and  sufficient  good  gravy  to  cover  it,  season  with  mixed  spioe, 
pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne,  and  a  spoonful  of  walnut  ketchup :  more  of 
the  latter  may  be  added,  if  the  quantity  made  should  require  it  to 
flavour ;  serve  with  pickled  gherkins  cut  small. 


114. ANOTHER    WAY. 

Cut  the  inside  of  the  sirloin  into  pieces,  dredge  it  with  flour,  put 
it  into  a  ftying-pan  in  which  some  butter  is  boiling;  when  it  is 
browned,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  some  brown  gravy,  highly 
seasoned,  squeeze  in  half  a  lemon,  and  serve. 


116. — ANOTHER  WAY, 

Cut  it  iu  strips,  as  for  collops,  flatten  it,  flour,  and  fry  in  butter, 
lay  in  the  centre  of  a  hot  dish  a  mound  of  spinach,  with  poached 
eggs  on  tho  top,  lay  the  beef  ix>und  the  spinach. 


1 1 6. — FILLET  OF  BEEF — ROAflTED. 

If  unaccustomed  to  the  use  of  the  knife,  the  butcher's  aid  may 
be  obtained  to  cut  the  fillet  which  comes  from  the  inside  of  the  sir- 
loin, it  maybe  larded  or  roasted  plain;  for  high  dinners  it  is  larded; 
baste  with  fresh  butter.  It  must  be  a  large  fillet  which  takes  longer 
than  an  hour  and  twenty  minutes ;  serve  with  tomato  sauce,  ganush 
with  horso  radish,  unleas  served  with  currant  jelly,  then  serve  a» 
will  I  venison  or  hare. 


117.— FILLET  OF  BEEF. 

Take  ribs  of  beef,  hang  as  many  days  as  ribs,  bone  it,  roll  it, 
sprinkle  well  with  salt  Jifter  boning,  aud  roast  it. 


118. — FILLET  OF  BEEF  A  LA  MARINADE. 

Take  the  under  side  of  a  sirloin  of  l>eef,  keep  the  fat  on  one  side. 
ti!m  it  and  lard  it,  and  lay  it  into  a  deep  and  long  dish ;  cot  in 


BEEF.  67 

thin  slices  carrots,  tumi£)s,  onions,  and  celery,  a  sprig  or  two  of 
parsley  and  sweet  herbs,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  cloves,  and  whole 
pej^ier,  two  tea-cupfals  of  vinegar,  and  one  of  cold  water,  and  one  of 
port  wine,  let  it  lie  a  day  or  two,  basting  it  frequently  with  the 
liquor  on  the  top;  then  braise  it  as  you  would  the  former  over  a  slow 
fire,  and  a  little  on  the  cover ;  stew  until  tender. 


119. — FILLET,  OR  ROUND  OF  BEEF — SPICED. 

Get  the  ribs  of  beef.  Have  ready  pounded  and  sifted,  some  cloves, 
mace,  allspice,  pepper,  a  few  coriander  seeds,  a  little  saltpetre,  and 
tay  ^t ;  mix  all  well  together,  rub  your  beef  well,  then  tie  it  tightly 
up  into  a  good  round  fillet ;  let  it  lie  for  a  day  or  two,  then  put  it  into 
the  oven  to  set  the  meat,  then  place  it  in  a  stewpan  with  a  little 
second  stock ;  put  fat  bacon  at  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan,  and  half  a 
pint  of  port  wine,  stew  it  about  two  hours  according  to  the  size,  make 
a  veiy  good  sauce,  reduce  the  liquor,  and  take  off  all  the  fat,  until 
snflftoent  to  make  the  sauce,  which  you  will  add  to  some  good  oooley, 
with  some  chopped  dressed  mushrooms ;  season  with  cayenne  pepper 
and  salt ;  if  approved  of,  add  some  hot  pickles  of  different  colours, 
tibe  last  thing  in  the  sauce.     Add  a  dust  of  sugar  to  your  sauce. 


120.— BOND   DE    B<EUF   EN   MINULTl'BE. 

Bone  a  rib  of  beef,  skewer  the  meat  as  a  fillet  of  veal,  pickle  it 
five  days  in  a  brine  composed  of  common  salt,  saltpetre,  bay  salt,  and 
coarse  sugar;  put  it  into  hot  water  but  not  boiling  water,  let  it 
simmer  but  not  boil,  if  eight  or  nine  pounds  it  will  take  two  hours 
and  longer  in  proportion  to  the  weight. 

If  it  is  found  that  the  skewer  does  not  shape  it  sufticiently  like  a 
xoond  of  beef,  bind  it  with  tape,  this  will  perhaps  be  proved  the  best 
method  to  pn>ceed  with  at  first. 


121. — A  SALT  ROUND  OF  BEEF. 

Use  the  ^ice  as  for  the  fillet  of  beef,  but  salt  as  usual  for  a  rouml 
beet  Let  it  lie  for  a  week,  frequently  rubbing  it ;  boil  it  in  a 
doth;  send  up  carrots,  and  tuniips,  and  suet  dumplings,  and  a  little 
gravy  from  wluit  it  was  boiled  in,  adding  a  little  consomm^,  or  it  will 
be  too  salt     Young  cabbages  in  a  di^^b,  send  up. 


1'2'2.  —  BEEF    OLIVES. 

Cut  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  in  thickness,  the  uiulerdone  part 
of  cold  boiled,  or  roast  beef,  cut  an  eschalot  up  licely,  mix  it  with 
some  crumbs  of  bread,  powdered  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  cover  the 
slices  of  meat  with  them,  then  roll,  and  secure  them  with  a  skewer, 
then  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  cover  thein  with  the  gmvy  from  the 
beef  mixed  with  water,  stev/  gently,  when  tender  they  are  done 
enough,  serve  them  with  beef  gravv. 

F  2 


68  BEEF. 

123 — BUMP  OF  BKEF. 

Take  out  the  large  bone  of  a  rump  of  beef^  take  jour  largest 
larding  pin,  or  the  point  of  your  steel  will  do,  cut  some  pieces  of 
bacon  four  inches  long  according  to  the  size  of  your  beef  a  square, 
withdraw  your  steel  and  introduce  the  cut  bacon  in  the  holes  of  the 
lean  part  of  the  beef  in  several  places,  then  tie  up  the  beef  as  the 
bnsket,  and  proceed  exactly  the  same  as  in  the  former  dish. 


124. — ^STEWED  BUMP  OF  BEEF. 

Half  roast  the  beef:  then  place  it  in  the  stewpan,  add  three 
pints  or  two  quarts  of  water,  according  to  the  weight  of  the  joint, 
two  wine-glasses  of  vinegar,  three  of  red  wine,  more  if  expense  be 
not  considered,  a  bottle  not  being  too  much;  cider  is  sometimes  used, 
l^ut  the  meat  may  be  stewed  without  it,  add  three  spoonfuls  of  walnut 
ketchup,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  a  shalot,  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
lemon  pickle,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt,  cover  the  stewpan  cloee 
down,  stew  gently  for  two  hours,  or  three  if  the  rump  of  beef  is  laxge, 
take  it  up  and  place  it  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served,  keep- 
ing it  hot  in  the  manner  previously  prescribed;  remove  the  Bcom 
from  the  gravy  in  which  it  has  been  stewed,  and  strain  it ;  add  half 
a  pint  of  mushrooms,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  port  wine,  a  spoonful 
of  Harvey's  sauce,  thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  pour  over  the  beef, 
garnish  with  pickles,  forcemeat  balls,  and  horseradish.  . 


125. — HUNTEB's   BEEF. 

Hang  for  three  days  a  round  of  beef  of  twenty  pounds,  at  the 
expiration  of  that  time  rub  it  with  brinu,  composed  of  three  ounces 
of  saltpetre,  twelve  ounces  of  salt,  a  spoonful  of  allspice,  one  of  black 
pepper,  an  ounce  of  coarse  brown  sugar ;  before  it  is  rubbed  with  this 
mixture  it  must  be  boned,  and  it  must  be  rubbed  well  every  day, 
turning  for  a  fortnight.  When  it  is  to  be  dressed  put  it  into  a 
stewpan,  pour  in  a  pint  of  water,  shred  a  quantity  of  mutton  suet, 
cover  the  meat  with  it,  lay  over  it  a  thick  crust,  attaching  it  round 
the  edge  of  the  pan,  tie  over  securely  with  paper,  and  bake  for  aiz 
hours  in  an  oven  moderately  heated  ;  take  away  the  paper  and  crust, 
chop  some  parsley  very  fine,  sprinkle  it  over  the  beef,  and  serve  it 
cold. 

It  will  keep  some  time  ;  the  gravy  will  make  a  good  flavouring  for 
soups. 


126. — SPICED    BEEF. 

A  joint  from  the  round,  rump,  or  flank,  from  ten  to  fourteen  pounds 
is  the  usual  weight  of  the  piece  intended  to  be  thus  dressed.  Make 
a  mixture  of  the  following  ingredients,  and  let  them  be  well  amal- 
gamated ;  pound  finely  as  much  mace  as  will  quite  fill  a  tea-spoon, 
grind  a  nutmeg  to  powder,  and  add  it,  also  two  spoonfuls  of  cloves, 
one  fourth  of  that  quantity  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  half  a  pound  of 


BEEF.  6\^ 

ooane  brown  sugar ;  rub  the  beef  well  with  this  mixture  for  three 
days,  turning  it  each  day  once ;  add  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
salt,  and  then  continue  rubbing  well  each  day,  for  ten  days  more ;  at 
the  expiration  of  that  time  dip  it  into  some  cold  clear  spring  water, 
twice  or  thrice,  secure  it  into  a  handsome  shape,  put  it  into  a  stewpan 
with  a  quart  of  good  beef  broth,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  skim  as  the 
scum  rises,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  put  in  three  carrots  cut  in  slices, 
a  bimdle  of  sweet  herbs,  a  little  parsley,  and  an  onion ;  stew  gently 
four  hours. 

If  it  is  intended  to  serve  this  dish  cold,  let  it  remain  until  it  is 
oool  in  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled,  but  take  the  precaution  to 
put  the  meat  into  a  clean  pao,  and  pour  the  liquor  over  it. 


127. — A   PICKIJB    FOB  BEEP. 

''  To  one  gallon  of  water  put  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  common  salt, 
one  ounce  of  saltpetre,  half  a  pound  of  coarse  sugar,  boil  it  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  and  be  particular  while  boiling  to  remove  every 
particle  of  sciun  while  rising,  that  it  may  be  as  clear  as  possible,  let 
It  be  odd  when  poured  upon  the  beef.     If  it  is  desired  to  make  the 
pidde  last  for  a  very  long  time,  add  a  gallon  of  spring  water  to  the 
above  quantity,  which  should,  if  for  keeping,  be  also  spring  water, 
add  three  ounces  of  saltpetre,  two  pounds  of  bay  salt,  and  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  coarse  brown  sugar.     Whatever  joints  are  put  into  this 
pickle,  they  should  be  kept  closely  covered  down.     Prepare  thus  the 
beef  for  pickling,  keep  it  as  long  as  you  can  without  taint,  spread  over 
it  coarse  sugar,  and  let  it  remain  for  two  days  to  drain.     Hub  the 
beef  thoroughly  with  the  pickle,  and  let  it  remain  in  it  eight,  ten, 
tvelve,  or  fourteen  days,  according  to  its  size  and  quantity,  a  con- 
sideiable  quantity  of  beef  may  be  pickled  together,  indeed  the  closer 
it  la  packed  the  better,  so  that  it  is  covered  with  the  pickle  and  kept- 
tightly  down  ;  when  they  are  taken  out  of  the  pickle,  lay  some  sticks. 
acrosB  the  pan  and  let  them  drip  into  it,  when  as  much  has  fallen 
tern  them  as  will,  wipe  them  dry,  and  they  may  either  be  cooked  at 
wice  or  dried ;  if  the  latter  be  determined  upon,  after  having  well 
dned  them  smoke  eight  hours  over  burnt  sawdust  and  damp  straw,  or 
8«w  them  in  a  cloth  and  send  them  to  the  baker,  and  let  tliem  hang 
wren  or  eight  days.     Do  not,  as  in  the  other  receipt,  boil  the  pickle 
before  using  the  hrst  time,  but  after  it  has  been  once  used,  and  every 
succeeding  time,  observing  that  it  must  be  kept  skimmed,  and  each 
time  of  boiling  add  a  quart  of  water  and  a  couple  of  pounds  of  salt. 
This  pickle  wUl  answer  equally  well  for  hams  or  tongues. 


^HS. — UUNG   BEEF. 

Take  twelve  to  fourteen  pounds  of  the  flank  of  beef,  throw  over  it 
a  haod&il  of  salt ;  let  it  drain  twenty-four  hours.  Make  a  brine  of 
one  pound  of  salt,  one  ounce  of  saltpetre ;  let  them  be  quite  dry,  and 
pimui  th«m  to  a  fine  powder  before  using,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
nay  nk  and  two  ounces  of  coigrse  sugar.    If  it  is  intended  to  make 


70  BE£F. 

the  beef  red,  add  three  graius  of  cochiueal ;  rub  the  beef  with  this 
brine  for  a  week,  and  then  torn  it ;  let  it  remain  two  dajt,  and  then 
rub  in  again  for  seven  or  eight  days;  then  let  it  drain  from  the 
pickle.  Send  it  to  the  bakers  to  be  smoked.  When  wanted  for 
dressing,  put  it  into  cold  water  more  than  enough  to  oorer  it,  boil 
graduallj  until  enough,  and  put  it  under  a  heavj  weight  while  hot 
It  may  be  served  with  carrots  and  greens,  or,  if  for  grating,  choose  ft 
lean  piece,  put  it  in  boiling  water ;  keep  it  boiling  tapidlj ;  foor 
pounds  will  take  an  hour. 

129. BEEF   HUNG. 

The  best  piece  is  the  navel  piece,  it  must  be  hung  up  in  a  cellar 
until  it  is  a  little  damp,  but  not  long  enough  to  change,  take  it  dowu 
and  wash  it  well  in  brown  sugar  and  water,  dry  it  with  a  cloth,  cut  ic^ 
in  two  or  three  pieces,  take  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  two  pounds 
of  bay  salt  dried  and  pounded  small,  six  ounces  of  saltpetro  dried  ancL 
beat  fine,  rub  it  well  into  the  beef,  then  rub  common  salt  over  it  «i^ 
much  as  will  make  it  salt  enough,  let  it  lie  together  ten  daj8,  change 
ing  the  pieces  from  the  bottom  to  the  top,  hang  it  when  it  may  hav^ 
the  warmth  of  the  fire,  but  not  too  near ;  whffli  it  is  diassed  boil  it* 
in  hay  and  pump  water  until  tender;  it  will  keep  two  or  three 
months,  when  mouldy  dip  it  in  water. 

130. — DUTCH  HUNG   BEEF. 

Rub  a  lean  piece  of  beef  about  twelve  pounds  with  trcade,  and  torn 
it  frequently,  in  three  days  wipe  it  dry,  salt  it  with  a  pouud  of  salt 
and  an  ounce  of  saltpetre  in  fine  powder,  rub  well  in,  turning  erery 
day  for  fourteen  days,  roll  it  as  tightly  as  you  can  in  a  coarse  cloth, 
lay  a  heavy  weight  upon  it,  hang  it  to  dry  in  the  smoke  irora  wood, 
reversing  it  every  day,  boil  in  spring  water,  press  it  while  hot  and 
grate  or  rice  it  to  fancy. 

131. — KUMP    STEAK   STEWED. 

Cut  a  steak  about  an  inch  thick  with  a  good  bit  of  fat,  iij  it  orar 
a  brisk  fire,  place  it  in  a  stewpan  with  the  gmvy,  a  little  good  atook, 
a  little  port  wine,  and  some  chopped  mushrooms,  stew  gently ;  when 
tender  put  into  it  some  good  brown  sauce,  shake  it  gently  about; 
dish  it,  and  put  scraped  or  grated  horse-radish  on  the  top ;  if  for 
oysters  or  mushrooms,  see  those  sauces ;  season  vrith  salt,  cayenne 
pepper,  and  sugar. 

132. RUMP   STEAK    PLAIN    BROILED. 

Cut  your  steak  not  so  thick  as  for  the  former ;  have  ready  a  good 
clear  fire,  put  your  gridiron  to  get  quite  hot,  then  put  on  the  ste^  at 
full  length,  frequently  stirring  it  with  your  steak  tongs,  a  few  minutes - 
according  to  taste  will  do  it,  place  it  on  your  dish,  put  a  good  slice  of 
butter  rubbed  all  over  it,  and  now  pepper  and  salt  it.  MorBO-iiidish 
on  the  top  of  it,  and  frequently  sauces.^ 


UfiEF.  7  \ 

133. — BKKF  l»TBAXtH-BBOILED. 

Be  particular  that  the  fire  is  dear ;  it  is  of  no  use  to  attempt  to 
hioil  a  steak  orer  a  dQll,  sinokj,  or  fiuring  fire ;  see  that  the  gridiron 
is  clean,  and  the  bars  rubbed  with  suet  preparatory  to  laying  on  the 
steak;  when  they  are  browned  turn  them,  do  not  be  afraid  of  doing 
this  often,  as  this  is  the  best  plan  to  preseno  the  gravy.  When  they 
are  done  rub  them  over  with  a  piece  of  fresh  butter,  pepper  and  salt 
ihetti,  sprinkle  the  shalot  or  onion  cut  very  small,  and  send  them  to 
table  with  oyster  sauce,  a  dish  of  nicely  cooked  greens,  and  well 
boiled  potatoes,  they  are  frequently  and  pleasantly  garnished  with' 
tcnped  horaeiadish. 


134. — BEEF  8TKAKS   ROLLED  AND    ROASTED. 

Cot  handsome  steaks  from  the  romp,  and  if  not  sufficiently  tender 
let  them  be  well  beaten,  make  a  rich  stuffing  of  equal  parts  of  ham 
and  veal  well  pofipered,  stew  it  for  a  short  time,  and  pound  it  in  a 
mortar  with  bread  steeped  in  milk,  a  lump  of  butter,  and  the  yolk  of 
two  or  three  eggs ;  spread  this  forcemeat  over  the  steaks,  roll  them 
op  and  tie  them  tightly,  roast  them  before  a  clear  fire.  They  will 
occupy  an  hour  and  twenty  minutes  to  an  hour  and  a  half  roastiog ; 
basta  well  with  butter  while  roasting,  and  serve  with  brown  gravy. 


135.— STEWED  BEEF  STEAKS. 

Stew  the  steaks  in  three  parts  of  a  pint  of  water,  to  which  has 
been  added  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  two  blades  of  mace,  an  onion 
stuck  with  cloves — say  three,  an  anchovy,  and  a  lump  of  butter  soaked 
in  flour,  pour  over  a  glass  of  sherry  or  Madeira.  Stew  with  the 
pan  oorered  down,  until  the  steaks  are  tender,  but  not  too  much  so ; 
then  place  them  in  a  fryingpan  with  enough  of  fresh  butter,  hissing 
hot,  to  coiver  them,  fiy  them  brown,  pour  off  the  fat,  and  in  its  place 
poor  into  the  pan  the  gravy  in  which  the  steaks  were  stewed  ;  when 
the  grafy  is  thoroughly  heated,  and  is  of  a  rich  consistency,  place 
the  steaks  in  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  them.  The  steaks 
•lioold  be  large,  tho  finest  from  the  rump,  and  have  a  due  proportion 
of  frt  with  them. 


130. — BEEF  STEAKS A  LA  FRAN^AISE. 

Take  a  fine  steak  and  dip  it  into  cold  spring  water,  let  it  drain  a 
lew  minutes,  lay  it  in  a  dish  and  pour  over  it  sufficient  clarified  but- 
ter hot,  and  cover  it ;  let  it  remain  twelve  hours,  then  remove  the 
batter,  and  roll  the  steak  with  the  rolling-pin  a  dozeu  times  rather 
hardly,  let  it  lie  in  front  of  a  clear  fire  ten  minutes,  tuniing  it  once 
or  twice,  put  it  into  a  frying-pan,  with  water  half  an  inch  in  depth, 
snd  let  it  fry  until  it  browns. 

Mince  some  parsley  very  fine,  chop  an  eschalot  as  fine  as  can  be, 
sod  season  them  with  cayenne,  salt,  and  a  little  white  pepper,  work 
a  lump  of  frMh  butter,  and  when  the  steak  is  brown  take 


72  BEEF. 

it  from  the  pan,  rub  it  well  with  the  mixture  on  both  sides,  snd  re- 
torn  it  to  the  pan  until  enough;  dish  it,  thicken  the  giavy  in  the  pan 
with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour  if  it  requires  it,  and  poor  it  orer 
the  steak  and  serve. 


137. — BEEF  STEAKS — A  LA  PABIS1EN19E, 

Cut  thin  steaks  from  the  finest  and  tenderest  part  of  the  mmp, 
sprinkle  pounded  salt,  a  little  cayenne,  and  white  pepper  combined, 
over  them,  lay  them  in  a  pan  with  au  ounce  of  fieeh  butter,  cat  in 
pieces ;  work  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour  with  three  ounces  of  fresb 
butter,  as  much  parsley  minced  exceedingly  fine  as  would  lie  on  a 
shilling,  roll  it,  and  cut  in  large  dice,  lay  it  in  a  dish,  squeeze  the 
half  of  a  lemon  over  the  butter,  and  when  the  steaks  are  done  lay 
them  upon  the  butter ;  have  ready  a  quantity  of  raw  peeled  potatoes, 
cut  in  Uiin  slices,  and  washed  in  milk  and  water  ready,  fry  them  is. 
the  butter  and  gravy  left  by  the  steak,  and  lay  them  round  the  dish^ 
they  will  be  done  when  they  are  a  rich  brown. 

138. — PALATES  OF  BEEF. 

'  Four  white  skinned  palates,  if  for  a  white  dish  lay  them  all  night 
in  salt  and  water,  wash  them  well,  put  them  on  to  scald,  take  off  all 
the  skin,  then  put  them  into  your  stock  pot,  let  them  boil  several 
hours  until  so  tender  that  you  can  pass  a  straw  through  them,  then 
take  them  up  and  lay  them  flat  on  a  large  dish  separate,  placing 
another  on  the  top  of  them  with  a  weight  to  keep  them  flat:  if  to  be 
dressed  whole  turn  the  sides  smooth,  spread  each  with  quenelle  oc 
forcemeat,  roll  them  up  and  tie  them,  it  will  take  six  for  this  dish ; 
steam  them  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  take  them  up  and  glaze  them 
well,  and  take  off  the  string;  if  for  a  turban  or  timbales,  cut  them  out 
with  a  plain  round  cutter,  either  using  two  small  moulds  or  one  large, 
proceed  with  those  two  as  you  would  for  the  timbale  of  macaroni, 
leaving  out  the  cheese  and  any  other  layer,  introduce  slices  of  tra£9ea 
all  round,  and  then  palates,  then  mushrooms  until  your  mould  is  full, 
put  a  layer  of  quenelle  on  the  top,  paper  it  on  the  top  with  buttered 
paper,  steam  as  other  timbales ;  haricot  roots,  truffles,  mushrooms, 
tomato,  piquant,  any  of  these  will  do  for  sauces,  or  Italienne ;  glaze 
the  tops  when  turned  out. 

139. — BEEF  PALATES. 

Take  as  many  as  required,  let  them  simmer  until  they  peel,  put 
them  in  a  rich  gravy,  stew  until  very  tender,  season  with  cayenne, 
salt,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  mushroom  ketchup, — serve. 


140. BEEF  KIDNEY,    ROONON   DE   BCEUF  SUPBRBE.— -FBIKD, 

-  Remove  all  the  fat  and  the  skin  from  the  kidney,  and  cut  it  in 
slices  moderately  thin.  Mix  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  grated  nut* 
meg,  and  cayenne  pepper.     Sprinkle  over  them  this  seaMming,  and 


BBKF.  73 

tiko  purrieji  and  esohalot  chopped  very  fine.  Fry  tbem  orer  a  quick 
file  until  brown  on  both  ddes,  pour  into  a  cup  of  good  gravy  a  gloss 
of  Madeua,  and  i^en  the  slices  of  the  kidney  are  browned,  pour  it 
into  the  pan  gradually ;  just  as  it  boils  throw  in  a  spoonful  of  lemon 
juice,  widi  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  nut.  Have  ready  a  dish^ 
garnished  with  fried  bread  cut  iu  dice;  pour  the  whole  into  it. 


141. ^BEEF   KIDNEYS. STEWED, 

Procure  a  couple  of  vety  fine  beef  kidneys,  cut  them  in  slices,  and 
lay  them  in  a  stewpan ;  put  in  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  cut  into 
veiy  thin  slices  four  large  onions ;  add  them,  and  a  sufficiency  of 
pepper  and  salt,  to  season  well.  Stew  them  about  an  hour ;  add  a 
cufrful  of  rich  gravy  to  that  extracted  from  the  kidney.  Stew  five 
minatesy  strain  it,  and  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  and  butter,  give 
it  a  boil  up.     Serve  with  the  gravy  in  the  dish. 


142. — BEEF  CAKE. 

Choose  lean  beef,  it  should  aho  be  very  tender,  if  a  pound  put  six 
oonoes  of  beef  suet,  mince  finely  and  season  with  cloves,  mace,  and 
nit,  in  fine  powder,  put  the  largest  proportion  of  salt  and  least  of 
BMoe,  add  half  the  quantity  of  the  latter  of  cayenne,  cut  into  thin 
Aces  a  pound  of  bacon,  and  lay  them  all  round  the  inside  but  not  at 
Ae  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  put  in  the  meat  pressing  it  closely  down, 
cover  it  with  the  remaining  slices  of  bacon,  lay  a  plate  over  it  face 
dofwnvrards,  and  upon  it  something  heavy  to  keep  it  from  shifting.  If 
Aero  be  throe  pounds  of  beef  bake  two  hours  and  a  half,  remove  the 
bioon  and  serve  with  a  little  rich  gravy.  Tlicse  cakes  may  be  made 
of  mutton,  or  veal,  or  venison. 


14d.«^BEKF   k   I^   BRAISE. 

Take  two  or  three  ribs  of  beef,  cut  away  only  the  fleshy  part  that 
is  next  the  chine,  and  take  away  all  the  fat ;  lard  it  with  pretty  good 
nze  of  lardings  of  bacon  seasoned  with  spices,  sweet  herbs,  parsley, 
.Toong  onions,  a  small  quantity  of  mushrooms  and  truffles  shred  very 
small ;  having  larded  the  beef  tie  it  into  a  neat  form  with  packthroad 
and  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  having  previously  lined  the  bottom  of  the 
stewpan  with  thin  slices  of  fat  bacon,  and  over  them  lay  slices  of  lean 
beef  about  an  inch  thick  beaten  well  and  seasoned  with  spice,  sweet 
herbs,  onion,  lemon  peel,  bay  leaves,  salt,  and  pepper,  then  put  in 
joar  beef,  laying  the  fleshy  side  downwards,  that  it  may  take  the 
better  rolish  of  the  seasoning,  then  season  the  upper  part  as  you  did 
tlie  lower,  and  lay  over  it  slices  of  beef,  and  over  diem  slices  of  bacon 
as  you  did  at  the  bottom,  then  cover  the  stewpan  and  close  it  well  all 
nmnd  the  edge  of  the  cover  with  paste,  then  put  firo  on  the  cover  of 
your  stewpan  as  weU  as  under ;  when  the  beef  is  sufficiently  stewed 
take  it  up  and  let  it  drain  a  little,  then  lay  it  on  a  dish  and  pour  the 
liUoiwiBg  ngoot  upon  it« 


While  jour  beef  is  stewing  make  a  ragout  as  follows  r^-lake  veil 
sweatbre ids,  livers  of  oapons,  miuhrooms,  truffles,  tops  of  asparagus, 
and  bottoms  of  artichdMs,  toss  these  up  with  some  melted  baeon, 
moisten  it  with  good  gravy,  and  thicken  it  with  cuUis  made  of  veal, 
and  gammon,  and  bacon* 

144. BEEF  HE^RT.  ' 

Wash  it  very  carefully,  stuff  it  the  same  as  you  would  a  hare,  roast 
or  bake  it,  and  serve  with  a  rich  gravy  and  currant  jelly  sauce,  hash 
with  the  same  and  port  wine. 

145.— BEEF  HEART  BOASTED. 

Wash  thoroughly,  stuff  with  forcemeat,  send  it  to  table  as  hot  as  it 
is  possible  with  currant  jelly  sauce,  it  will  take  about  forty  minutes 
roasting,  but  this  depends  upon  the  fire. 

146. — ^BEEF   HEART. 

Let  it  be  thoroughly  well  cooked,  and  the  skin  removed.  Wipe  it 
daily  with  a  clean  cloth,  stuff  it  with  veal  stuffing ;  rosst  two  hours 
and  a  quarter.  Make  a  brown  gravy,  as  for  hare ;  and  serve  with 
the  gravy  and.  curraut  jelly. 

The  most  pleasaut  way  to  the  palate  of  dressing  this  dish,  is  to 
roast  the  heart  for  rather  less  than  two  hours,  let  it  get  cold,  cot  it 
hi  pieces,  and  jug  it  the  same  as  hare. 

147. — BEEF   COLLOPS. 

Any  part  of  beef  which  is  tender  will  serve  to  make  collops  ;  cut 
the  beef  into  pieces  about  three  inches  long,  beat  them  fiat,  dredge 
them  ^vith  flour,  fry  them  in  butter,  lay  them  in  a  stewpan,  cover  them 
with  brown  gravy,  put  in  half  an  eschalot  minced  fine,  a  lump  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  to  thicken  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  stew 
without  suffering  it  to  boil ;  serve  with  pickles,  or  squeeze  in  half  a 
lemon,  according  to  taste ;  serve  in  a  tureen,  and  serve  hot. 


148.— BEEF  COLLOPS.— MINCED  AU  NATURBL. 

Take  of  the  tenderest  part  of  lean  beef,  from  twelve  to  sixteen  ounces, 
the  quantity  in  fact  must  be  regulated  by  the  purpose  for  which  it  Ls 
dressed,  whether  it  be  to  place  before  an  invalid,  or  to  swell  the  number 
of  dishes  introduced,  without  adding  much  to  the  expense. 

Mince  the  beef,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  put  it  into  a  stewpan 
to  draw  the  gra\y,  let  it  simmer  slowly,  and  keep  it  stining,  otherwise 
it  will  lump  ;  let  it  stew  very  slowly  ten  minutes,  add  a  little  gravy, 
stew  five  minutes  more,  and  serve  while  very  hot 


140. —SAVOURY  BEEF   COLLOPa. — COMMON    RECEIPT. 

Put  into  a  stewpan,  two  ounces  of  butter  kneaded  in  three  parts 
of  a  table-«poonful  of  flour,  when  it  melts  add  a  table-^poaiifal  of 


BEEF.  76 

rich  blown  gmvy.  chop  some  parslej  very  fiuc,  and  also  a  feir  8t?eet 
herbs,  ^rinkle  them  into  the  melting  butter  as  it  browns;  when  it  is 
of  a  good  gold  colour,  add  your  minc^  beef,  and  keep  it  stirring  until 
it  18  thoroughly  heated  through,  add  a  tea-cupfiil  of  gravy,  and  stew 
€1^  minutes,  then  add  a  little  ketchup,  or  a  little  CMli  vinegar,  and 
serve  very  hot 

The  favourite  method  in  Scotland  is  to  mince  the  beef,  season 
it  highly,  put  it  undressed  into  jars,  cover  the  top  with  clarified 
butter,  to  cook  it  they  put  into  the  pan  the  butter  which  covered  it, 
throw  in  aome  onions  in  thin  slices,  and  fry  them ;  when  browning 
add  half  a  cupful  of  water,  and  then  the  minced  meat ;  stew  a  few 
lainiites,  and  serve. 


150. — BEEF  k  LA  HODE. 

Theie  are  several  methods  of  making  this  dish;  the  hash  erro 
neoosly  termed  alamode  beef,  sold  at  eating-houses,  is  a  very  difTerent 
dish  to  the  true  beef  k  la  mode.     The  following  is  called  the  '*  old 
Bath"  receipt. 

Take  a  quantity  of  the  buttock,  or  the  leg  of  mutton  piece,  the 
dod,  or  where  expense  is  not  an  object  the  rump  of  beef  as  lean  as 
possible ;  cut  away  the  fat  if  tliere  is  any,  make  a  mixed  powder  of 
cloves,  about  twenty  or  thirty,  the  same  quantity  of  mace,  mth  half 
an  ounce  of  allspice,  savoury,  parsley,  a  handful  of  thyme,  knotted 
marjoram,  and  all  other  sweet  herbs  chopped  very  fine ;  mix  them  in 
a  glass  of  vinegar.  Take  some  fat  bacon,  cut  it  into  slices  as  long  as 
the  beef  is  thick,  and  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  roil  it 
well  in  the  powdered  spice  and  herbs,  make  incisions  of  the 
rei|iiisite  depth,  and  insert  the  bacon  in  the  beef,  which  may  be 
mbbed  well  over  with  what  remains  of  the  powdered  spice,  &c.,  in 
Ifae  vinegar;  then  dredge  flour  over  the  beef,  place  it  in  a  baking 
diih  with  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  with  a  pint  of  water  ;  bake 
it  in  the  oven,  strain  the  gravy,  and  serve  with  pickles  on  the  top ;  if 
after  being  larded  it  should,  instead  of  being  baked,  be  put  into  the 
slewpan,  add  to  it  as  much  water  as  will  cover  it,  four  onions  chopped 
fine,  half  a  dozen  cloves  of  garlic,  as  many  bay  leaves,  a  few  cham- 
plgnoDs,  half  a  pint  of  ale,  as  much  port  wine,  add  white  pepper, 
eajenne  pepper,  and  salt,  a  tea-spoonful  of  pyroligneous  acid ; 
strew  three  parts  of  a  pint  of  fine  bread  rasping!^  over  it,  cover  down 
ck»e  and  stew  six  or  eight  hours,  according  to  the  size  of  the  beef ; 
iHKn  it  has  stewed  sufficiently,  take  out  die  beef,  keep  it  hot  over 
boiling  water,  strain  the  gravy,  remove  the  fat,  champignons,  &c. ; 
hoil  up  again,  season  to  palate,  pour  the  gravy  over  the  beef  and  send 
to  table. 

This  is  sometimes  preferred  cold,  in  which  case  serve  it  cut  in 
slices,  with  the  gravy  which  will  be  a  jelly. 

151. — BEEF  A  LA  MODE. ^AKOTHER  WAY. 

Take  a  rump,  or  piece  of  beef,  bone  it,  beat  it  well,  and  lard  it  with 
id  bacon;  tlienpatitintoastewpanwithsomerindof  bacon,  a  calfa 


76  BESF. 

foot,  an  onion,  a  carrot,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  bay  leaf»  thjme«  a 
clove  of  garlic,  some  cloves,  salt,  and  pepper ;  pour  over  the  whole  a 
glass  of  water,  let  it  stew  over  a  slow  fire  for  six  hours  at  least,  A 
clean  cloth  should  be  placed  over  the  stewpan  before  the  lid  is  pat 
on  which  must  be  closed ;  when  it  is  done  strain  the  gravy  through  a 
sieve  ;  clear  off  the  fat  and  serve. 


152.— BEEF  A  LA  MODE. — ^ANOTHER  WAT. 

Take  some  of  the  round  of  beef,  cut  it  five  or  six  inches  thick,  cut 
some  fat  bacon  into  long  bits,  take  an  equal  quantity  of  beaten  mace, 
pepper*  and  nutmeg,  with  double  the  quantity  of  salt  if  wanted,  mix 
them  together,  dip  the  bacon  in  vinegar,  garlic  vinegar  if  agreeable, 
then  into  the  spice,  lard  the  beef  with  a  larding  pin  veiy  thick  and 
even ;  put  the  meat  into  a  pot  just  big  enough  to  hold  it  with  a  gill 
of  vinegar,  two  large  onions,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  half  a  pint  of 
red  wine,  some  lemon  peel,  cover  it  down  very  close,  and  put  a  wet 
cloth  round  the  edge  of  the  pot  to  prevent  the  steam  evaporating ; 
when  it  is  half  done  turn  it,  and  cover  it  up  close  and  do  it  over  a 
slow  fire  or  a  stove ;  it  will  take  five  hours  doing,  truffles  and  morels 
may  be  added, 

153. — ox   TAILS. 

Have  them  properly  jointed  by  the  butcher ;  it  saves  time,  and 
experience  enables  the  butcher  to  do  the  task  more  neatly  than  the 
cook.  They  should  be  separated  at  each  joint,  until  the  end  of  the 
tail  is  approached,  and  then  two  or  three  joints  may  be  the  length 
allowed.  Three  or  four  tails  may  be  cooked ;  that,  however,  must  be 
regulated  according  to  the  quantity  required.  We  give  the  propor- 
tions for  three  tails.  Cover  them  with  water  after  laying  them  in  the 
saucepan,  clear  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  when  it  boils  put  in  a  little 
salt,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  white  pepper,  and  half  that  quantity  of 
cayenne,  eight  or  ten  cloves  stuck  in  two  small  onions,  two  lai^  or 
four  small  carrots,  and  a  good  sized  bunch  of  pareley.  Let  it  boil 
very  gently,  until  the  meat  is  tender,  they  will  take  three  hours ; 
strain  the  gravy  from  the  meat,  thicken  it,  and  serve  up  with  the 
tails  in  a  tureen.  When  the  gravy  has  been  thickened,  the  vegetables 
may  bo  returned  to  it  or  not,  according  to  taste,  and  it  may  be  sent 
to  table  poured  over  the  tails,  or  in  a  separate  tureen. 

Ox-tails  are  broiled,  but  as  in  any  mode  of  dressing  them  they 
require  much  cooking,  they  must  first  be  stewed.  They  are  not 
divided  in  this  mode  of  dressing,  but  boiled  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
whole,  stewed  in  sufficient  gravy  to  cover  them  until  tender, 
then  coated  with  yolk  of  egg,  or  fresh  butter  powdered  with  bread 
crumbs,  and  broiled  upon  a  gridiron,  served  immediately  they  are 
browned. 


154, — ^HABICOT  OF   ox  TAILS. 

Joint  the  taUs  and  choose  those  of  a  size ;  in  the  country  yon  mnst 
use  the  large  end  and  smaller  in  the  dish,    Blanch  them  foe  a  few 


BBEF.  77 

minutes,  take  them  up,  return  them  in  a  clean  stewpan,  cover  them 
with  second  stock,  add  a  small  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  slice  of 
lean  ham,  a  blade  of  mace,  four  cloves ;  when  tender  take  them  up 
and  thicken  the  liquor,  put  a  little  brown  sauce  to  it,  have  ready  cut 
in  a  shape  carrots,  turnips,  twelve  button  onions,  the  middle  of  a 
head  of  celery  cut  one  inch  long,  a  green  gherkin  or  cucumber,  cut 
as  for  cutlet  sauce  six  mushrooms ;  after  you  have  prepared  the 
vegetables  add  them  to  your  sauce  which  you  have  previously  passed 
tfaroogh  a  tammy ;  boil  all  for  ten  minutes,  season  with  sugar,  and 
salt,  and  pepper ;  glaze  the  tails. 

.  155. — BRISKET  OF  BEEF — STEWED. 

Take  any  quantity  of  brisket  of  beef  required,  say  eight  or  ten 
pounds,  cover  it  with  water,  stew  till  tender,  bone  the  beef  and  skim 
off  the  fat,  strain  the  gravy,  add  a  glass  of  port  wine,  flavour  with 
^ioe  tied  in  a  bag.  Have  boiled  vegetables  ready ;  cut  them  into 
squaieSy  and  garnish  the  beef  from  the  gravy  round  it,  and  ser\'e.^ 


156. RUMP  OF  BEEF  EN  MATELOTTE. 

Cat  the  beef  in  pieces,  half  boil  them,  put  them  into  some  beef 

broth  or  thin  stock  unseasoned  and  boil,  when  half  done  stir  some 

butter  and  flour  mobtened  with  the  broth  in  a  stewpan  over  the  fire 

until  brown,  put  the  beef  into  the  pan  with  a  dozen  onions  previously 

paitrailed,  a  glass  of  sherry,  a  bay  leaf,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 

jHOslej,,  and  pepper,  and  salt ;  stew  till  tho  beef  and  onions  are  quite 

done,  skim  clean,  cut  an  anchovy  small,  put  it  with  capers  into  the 

sance,  put  the  beef  in  the  centre  of  the  dish;  garnish  with  the  onions 

vmmd  It. 


157. — ^TO  FRICASEE  COLD  ROAST  BEEF. 

Cot  the  beef  into  slices,  which  should  be  very  thin,  put  it  with 

Boma  Btnmg  broth  into  a  stew-pan,  add  parsley  chopped  small,  an 

onion  scored,  and  a  piece  of  butter,  simmer  fifteen  minutes,  add  a 

f^ass  of  port  wine,  a  tea-spoonful  of  pyroligneous  acid,  and  the  yolk 

of  a  couple  of  eggo ;  mix  well,  stew  quickly,  pot  the  dish,  rub  it  with 

<^  shtlot,  pour  fiicasee  into  it,  and  serve. 

158. — BEEF  FRICANDEAU. 

Take  a  piece  of  beef  as  lean  as  you  can  obtain  it,  lard  it  well  over 
on  one  side  with  pieces  of  bacon.  Place  in  a  stew-pan  an  eschalot, 
t  hmch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  faggot  of  parsley,  a  little  cloves,  three  parts 
of  a  quart  of  good  broth,  one  glass  of  sherry,  and  pepper  and  salt  to 
palate.  A  clove  of  garlic  may  be  added  to  the  eschalot  if  it  is  not 
&and  of  sufficient  strength  to  flavour  it  without.  Put  on  the  meat, 
nd  stew  tmtil  tender,  take  out  the  gravy,  keep  the  meat  covered 
<iown  close,  skim  and  strain  the  sauce,  boil  it  until  reduced  to  a 
^aze.  Glaze  the  beef  with  it  on  the  side  larded,  and  serve  with 
aanoe  piquante,  or  sauce  sorrel. 


78  BEST. 

159. — fTEW  OF  OX-CHSEJL 

Clem  and  wash  it  well,  cut  off  the  flesluest  parts,  and  bireak  the 
bones  into  an  available  size,  put  it  into  a  stewkettle  with  enough 
water  to  cover  it,  season  with  salt ;  the  pepper  should  be  whole,  and 
with  a  few  cloves,  and  a  blade  of  mace  tied  in  a  bag  made  of  muslin, 
put  it  into  the  water,  with  three  onions,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  half 
a  dozen  carrots  sliced,  a  head  of  celery  sliced,  and  four  or  five  tumijps 
of  tolerable  size ;  stew  from  five  to  seven  hours;  before  serving  the 
meat  may  be  removed,  and  the  gravy  thickened  and  browned ;  serve 
hot,  with  the  meat  in  the  gravy. 

Shin  of  beef  is  very  excellent,  dressed  in  this  £9ishion. 


150. — ^BEEF  AKD  SAUER  KRAUT. — 0ERMA9  RECEIPT. 

Put  about  eight  pounds  of  beef  into  cold  water.  When  it  comes 
to  a  boil,  let  it  boil  very  Oast  for  eight  or  ten  minutes,  not  longer. 
Take  it  out  and  lay  it  in  a  stewpau,  cover  it  completely  over  with 
sauer  kraut.  Pour  in  a  pint  of  thin  gravy.  Stew  four  hours,  and 
serve  with  the  gravy  in  a  tureen  or  deep  dish. 


161. — ^ANOTHER  WAT. 

Prepare  the  beef  for  the  stewpan  as  above,  but  instead  of  laying 
the  beef  immediately  in  the  stewpan,  cut  it  into  slices,  not  large,  and 
then  put  it  in.  Cover  the  pieces  as  before  with  sauer  kraut,  and  tM 
three  parts  of  a  quart  of  weak  broth,  with  two  small  onions  in  sHces. 
Boil,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Parboil  the  hearts  of  two  summer 
cabbages,  and  press  all  the  water  from  them ;  halve  them,  and  lay  the 
fiat  sides  upon  the  beef,  after  it  has  been  simmering  an  hour  and 
twenty  minutes.  At  the  end  of  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  add  a 
sliced  onion  or  two,  a  couple  of  slices  of  lean  ham  cut  in  fingers, 
and  s{Nrinkle  with  mixed  spice.  A  vinegar  sauce  is  eaten  with  this 
dish.    It  is  esteemed  highly  in  the  northern  parts  of  Germany. 


162. — BEEF   SAUNDERS. 

Wash,  and  put  in  a  saucepan  two  pounds  of  potatoes ;  cover  them 
well  with  water,  and  tlirow  in  a  handful  of  salt ;  let  them  just  reach 
the  boil,  but  never  actually  boil,  until  they  are  done.  Peel  them, 
mash  them  with  milk  and  two  ounces  of  butter,  season  with  cayenne 
pepper  and  salU  and  lay  in  a  smooth  paste  a  sufi&ciency  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  a  di^h :  upou  this  lay  slices  cut  a  moderate  thickness  of 
rare  beef  very  close  together.  Pour  two  table-spoonfuls  of  the 
richest  gravy  you  have  over  it,  and  cover  with  a  crust  of  potatoes, 
mashed ;  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  five-and-forty  minutes. 

The  meat  may  be  minced  for  this  dish,  and  indeed  is  usually 
cooked  so,  for  the  sake  of  time ;  it  occupies  half  an  hour  only,  or  less, 
in  cooking.  It  can  be  made  of  mutton  as  well  as  beef,  or  of  pork  or 
beef  sausage  meat. 


BSET.  79 

168. — BOUILLT  BEJCr. 

This  receipt  is  made  with  the  brisket  of  beef.  Take  the  thickest, 
wad  pat  it  into  an  iron  tinned  kettle,  and  cover  with  water ;  it  is 
better  for  being  rolled  and  tied.  Put  in  turnips  cut  small,  carrots, 
eeleiy,  onions,  and  spice.  Boil  hat  for  an  hour  and  three  quarters, 
stew  for  six  hours,  adding  water  as  it  evaporates.  When  it  has 
stewed  five  hours,  take  about  two  quarts  of  the  soup,  or  as  much  as 
Toor  toreen.will  comfortably  hold,  add  to  it  turnips  and  carrots  out 
m  dice.    The  ribs  of  beef  may  be  cooked  much  in  the  same  HeiBhiiHi. 


164. — BEEF   BOUILLI. 

About  ten  pounds  for  a  flank  or  comer  dish  of  the  tender  end  or 
middle  of  brisket  of  beef,  tie  it  across  with  a  string,  place  it  in  your 
second  stock  pot,  keep  it  covered  and  boiled  for  two  or  three  hours ; 
take  it  up,  untie  it,  and  take  out  the  bones ;  put  it  on  a  clean  dish 
with  one  over  it  with  some  weight  on  the  top  until  cold,  then  tie 
it  oeatfy  up  again,  after  having  trimmed  it  to  a  nice  square  or  long 
shiqpe,  then  return  it  to  your  stewpan  until  done,  take  it  up  and  glaze 
it  several  times ;  if  ornaments  are  liked,  stick  silver  skewers 
ornamented  with  truffles,  capsicums,  green  gherkins,  sweetbreads  or 
cock  8  combs :  if  for  fish,  cray  fish  or  prawns. 


165. — A   BEEP    STEW. 

Take  two  or  three  pounds  of  the  rump  of  beef,  cut  away  all  the  fat 
and  skin,  and  cut  it  into  pieces  about  two  or  three  inches  square,  put 
it  into  a  stewpan,  and  pour  on  to  it  a  quart  of  bi'oth,  let  it  boil,  sprinkle 
in  a  little  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  when  it  has  boiled  very  gently, 
or  ainunered  two  hours,  shred  finely  a  large  lemon,  add  it  to  the  gravy, 
ant  in  twenty  minutes  pour  in  a  flavouring  composed  of  two  table- 
apeonftilft  of  Harvey  s  sauce,  the  juice  of  the  lemon  the  rind  of  which 
kaa  been  sliced  into  the  gravy,  a  spoonful  of  flour,  and  a  little  ketchup, 
add  at  pleasure  two  glasses  of  Madeira,  or  one  of  sherry,  or  port,  a 
foarter  of  an  hour  after  the  flavouring,  and  serve. 


166. — BEEF  HASHED. 

Take  the  bones  of  the  joint  to  be  baslied,  and  break  them  small, 
stew  them  in  very  little  water,  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  few 
onions  ;  roll  a  lump  of  butter  in  flour,  brown  it  in  a  stewpan,  pour 
the  gravy  to  it,  and  add  the  meat  to  be  hashed,  cut  two  small  onions 
in  thin  slices,  a  carrot  also,  and  a  little  parsley  shred  finely ;  stew 
gently  until  the  meat  is  hot  through,  and  serve. 


167. — BEEF   TONGUE. TO   CURE. 

Tlirow  a  handful  of  salt  over  the  tongue,  seeing  that  it  is  sprinkled 
«B  both  sides,  let  it  remain  to  drain  until  the  following  day,  make  a 
pickle  of  a  table-spoonful  of  common  salt,  half  that  quantity  of  salt- 


80  BEEF. 

petre,  and  the  same  quantity  of  coarse  sugar  as  of  salt ;  rub  this 
mixture  well  into  the  tongue,  do  so  eveiy  day  for  a  week ;  it  will  then 
be  found  necessary  to  add  more  salt,  a  table-spoonful  will  suffice,  ia 
four  more  days  the  tongue  will  be  cured  sufficiently. 

Some  persons  do  not  rub  the  pickle  into  the  tongue,  but  let  it 
absorb  it  merely  turning  it  daily,  this  method  will  be  found  to  occapj 
a  month  or  five  weeks  before  it  will  be  cured.  When  the  tongue  is 
to  be  dried  affix  a  paper  to  it  with  a  date ;  smoke  over  a  wood  fire 
four  days  unless  wrapped  in  paper,  and  then  as  many  Weeks  will  be 
required. 

168. — TO   DBESS   BEEP  TONGUES. 

To  dress  them,  boil  the  tongue  tender,  it  will  take  five  hours ; 
always  dress  them  as  they  come  out  of  the  pickle,  unless  they  have 
been  very  long  there,  then  they  may  be  soaked  three  or  four  hours 
in  cold  water,  or  if  they  have  been  smoked,  and  hung  long,  they 
should  be  softened  by  lying  in  water  five  or  six  hours,  they  should 
be  brought  to  a  boil  gently,  and  then  simmer  until  tender;  when 
they  have  been  on  the  fire  about  two  hours,  and  the  scum  removed 
as  it  rises,  throw  in  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  of  a  tolerable  size,  it  will 
improve  the  flavour  of  the  tongue. 


169. — ^TONGUE  LABDED. 

This  when  well  cooked  is  especially  pleasant  to  some  palates. 
Take  a  tongue  which  has  been  pickled,  a  small  one  is  the  best,  cut 
off  the  root,  and  put  it  into  a  pan ;  cover  it  with  water,  and  let  it 
boil  five-and-twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  Take  it  out,  and  then  dip 
it  in  scalding  water  to  blanch,  and  remove  the  skin. 

Take  a  piece  of  fat  bacon,  cut  it  into  strips  for  larding.  Make  a 
seasoning  of  pounded  sweet  herbs,  eschalot,  mace,  and  a  little 
cayenne  pepper  mixed  with  white  pepper  and  salt;  sprinkle  the 
bacon  strips  with  it,  and  leaving  a  line  for  division  down  the  centre 
of  the  tongue.  Lard  it  all  over.  Braise  the  tongue,  and  then  glaze; 
separate  it  in  the  space  left,  but  leave  it  attached  at  either  end,  so 
that  when  laid  open  on  the  dish  it  is  not  entirely  divided  in  two. 
Have  ready  some  brown  sauce,  flavoured  with  minced  capers,  sliced 
pickled  gherkins,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  half  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper.  Pour  it  when  ready  into  a  dish ;  lay 
the  tongue  upon  it,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 


170, — TO   STEW    A   TONGUE. 

Cut  away  the  root  of  the  tongue,  but  leave  the  fat  underneath,  and 
salt  as  above  for  seven  days.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan,  and  boil  gently 
until  tender,  and  it  will  peel  easily.  Put  it  into  a  stewpan,  cover  it 
with  a  rich  gravy,  into  which  put  a  spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup, 
one  of  soy,  and  half  a  spooniful  of  cayenne  pepper.  Stew  in  the 
gravy  morels,  truffles,  and  mushrooms,  and  serve  with  them  in  the 
gravy. 


BEEF.  81 

171. — BEEF  BRAINS  FRIED. 

Let  jour  bxains  be  properly  marinaded,  then  leave  them  to  drain'; 
make  a  preparation  with  warm  water,  a  little  butter,  and  salt,  some 
floor,  and  a  spoonful  of  oil,  and  the  whites  of  eggs  whipped  to  snow, 
mix  altogether  till  like  batter,  dip  your  brains  into  this  batter,  and 
then  frj  them  a  nice  brown  colour,  when  fried  let  them  drain  on  a 
diy  doth,  garnish  with  fried  parsley* 

172. — BEEF  BRAINS  k  LA  SAUCE  PIQUANTE. 

Cook  your  brains  in  a  marinade,  drain  them,  put  them  on  a  dish, 
and  poor  a  sauce  piquante  all  over  them. 


173. — BUBBLE  A2»D   SQUEAK. 

Sprinkle  some  slices  of  cold  boiled  beef  with  pepper,  fry  them 
with  a  bit  of  butter  of  a  light  brown ;  boil  a  cabbage,  squeeze  it 
qmte  dry  and  chop  it  small,  take  the  beef  out  of  the  frying-pan  and 
lay  the  cabbage  in  it,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  it,  keep 
the  pan  moving  over  the  iire  for  a  few  minutes,  lay  the  cabbage  in 
the  middle  of  the  dish  and  the  beef  around  it. 


174. BEEF    SAUSAGES. 

To  three  pounds  of  beef,  very  lean,  put  one  poimd  and  a  half  of 
soet,  and  chop  very  finely ;  season  with  sage  in  powder,  allspice, 
pepper,  and  salt,  have  skins  thoroughly  cleaned,  and  force  the  meat 
into  them. 


176. — BEEF  BROTH. 

'  Take  a  leg  of  beef,  wash  it  clean,  crack  the  bone  in  two  or  three 
ptrts,  put  it  into  a  pot  with  a  gallon  of  water,  skim  it  well,  then  put 
two  or  three  blades  of  mace  in  a  little  bundle  of  parsley,  and  a  crust 
of  bread,  let  it  boil  till  the  beef  is  quite  tender,  toast  some  bread,  cut 
it  into  dice,  put  them  into  a  tureen,  lay  in  the  meat,  and  pour  the 
soup  over  it. 

176. — MARROW   BONES. 

Iliey  must  be  sawn  into  convenient  sizes ;  cover  the  ends  with  a 
little  dough  made  of  flour  and  water,  and  tie  them  in  a  floured  cloth, 
Unl  them  an  hour  and  a  half,  serve  on  a  napkin  with  dry  toast. 

177. — BAKED   MARROW   BONES. 

The  bones  should  be  prepared  as  above  and  laid  in  a  deep  dish, 
then  put  into  an  oven  and  bake  gently  for  two  hours.  They  are 
sometimes  cooked  in  batter,  but  if  so,  the  marrow  should  be  cleared 
from  the  bones  and  put  in  buttered  cases  made  of  clean  foolscap 
piper;  let  them  lie  in  the  batter  and  serve  with  them  in  it;  when  the 
letter  18  baked  the  marrow  will  be  also  done. 

G 


S2  BKEF. 

178.— ^BIPE. 

Take  two  pouuds  of  fresh  tripe,  cleaned  and  dressed  byihe  'tme- 
dresser,  cut  away  the  coarsest  fat,  and  hoil  it  in  equal  parts  of  nmk 
and  water,  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour  will  be  long  enooA.  Bcnl 
in  tiie  same  water  which  boils  the  tripe  four  large  onions ;  mstnuont 
should  be  put  on  the  fire  at  least  half  an  hour  before  ^e  tripe  is 
put  in  the  ste^'pan,  and  then  made  into  a  rich  oziion  sance,  idiidi 
serve  with  the  trij)e. 

Tripe  is  cleaned,  dried,  cut  into  pieces,  and  fried  in  batter,  and 
served  with  melted  butter. 

Tripe  is  cut  into  slices ;  three  eggs  are  beaten  up  with  minoed 
parsley,  sweet  herbs,  onions  chopped  exceedingly  fine,  parsley,  and 
mushrooms.  The  tripe  is  dipped  into  this  mixture,  and  fried  in 
boiling  lard. 

Tripe  may  be  cut  into  coUops,  covered  with  a  mixtore  of  pmley, 
onions,  and  mushrooms,  minced  exceedingly  fine,  and  fried  -in  ckri- 
fied  or  fresh  butter.     Serve  mushroom  sauce  with  it. 

Tripe  can  be  stewed  in  gravy  in  which  put  parsley,  lOnioiia,  aad 
mushrooms,  or  in  lieu  of  the  latter,  mushroom  ketohup.  TlnekiBn 
the  gravy  with  Hour  and  butter.  When  the  tripe  is  ttnder,  it  -wiSL 
be  done.     A  lemon  may  be  sent  to  table  with  it. 


179. — CULLIS  FOR  ALL  0ORT8  OF  BUTCHER's  HEIZ. 

You  must  take  meat  according  to  the  number  of  guests,  if  ten  or 
twelve  a  leg  of  veal  and  a  ham  will  be  necessary,  with  all  the  fat, 
skin,  and  outside  cut  off,  cut  the  leg  of  veal  into  pieces  of  about  three 
or  four  inches  thick  each  way,  place  them  in  a  stewpan,  aild  thcBi  the 
dioes  of  ham,  two  carrots,  and  an  onion  cut  in  two,  cover  it  doso,  let 
it  stew  gently  at  fint^  and  as  it  begins  to  brown,  take  off  the  4X>i«r 
and  turn  it  to  colour  on  all  sides  the  same,  but  take  care  nut  to  bum 
the  meat;  when  it  has  a  pretty  brown  colour,  moisten  your  cullis  with 
broth  made  of  beef  or  other  meat,  season  the  cullis  with  a  little  sweet 
basil,  some  cloves,  and  a  little  garlic,  pare  a  lemon,  cut  it  in  slices  and 
put  it  into  the  cullis  with  some  mushrooms,  put  into  a  stewpan  a  eood 
lump  of  butter,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  -fire,  put  into  it  two  or  three 
bandfuls  of  flour,  stir  it  with  a  wooden  ladle,  and  let  it  take  a  oolour, 
if  the  cullis  be  pretty  brown  you  must  put  in  some  flour,  ihe  flow 
being  brown  with  the  cullis,  pour  it  gently  into  the  ooliis  keeping  it 
stirring  with  a  wooden  ladle,  then  let  the  cullis  stew  softly  and  skim 
off  all  the  fat,  put  in  two  glasses  of  champagne  or  other  white  wine, 
but  take  care  to  keep  the  cullis  very  thin,  so  that  you  may  take  the 
fat  well  off  and  clarity  it,  you  must  clarify  it  by  putting  it  into  a  stove 
that  draws  well,  cover  it  close  and  let  it  boil  without  uncovering 
until  it  boils  over,  then  uncover  and  take  off  the  fiit  that  is  round  the 
stewpan,  then  wipe  it  off  the  cover  also  and  cover  it  again;  when  the 
cullis  is  done  take  out  the  meat  and  strain  the  cullis  through  a  silken 
strainer ;  this  cullis  is  for  all  sorts  of  ragouts,  fowls,  pies,  and  tureens. 


180. — POTTED    BEEF. 

To  a  pound  of  common  salt,  put  a  quaitcr  of  an  ounco  of  salt- 
petre, and  two  ounces  of  coarse  sugar.  Kub  three  pounds  of  lean 
beef  with  this,  and  let  it  remain  in  the  brine  fifty  hours.  Drain 
and  dry  it,  pepper  it  well  with  black  pepper,  put  it  into  a  pan ;  cut 
half  a  pound  of  butter  in  slices,  and  lay  round  it ;  lay  a  paste  crust 
over  it,  and  bake  it  very  slowly  four  hours  and  a  half.  Let  it  get 
cold,  and  then  cut  off  the  meat,  being  careful  to  separate  the  stringy 
pieces  from  it :  pound  it  in  a  nortgr,  vcaidiig  up  with  it  four  ounces 
of  fresh  butter,  and  some  of  the  gravy  from  the  meat  when  baked, 
seasoned  with  ground  allspice,  a  little  mace,  and  pepper.  When  the 
meat  has  been  combined  with  the  butter  and  gravy,  until  it  is 
worked  into  an  even  paste,  put  it  into  jars,  and  €over  with  clurified 
butter. 

If  it  is  purposed  to  keqp  it  long,  cover  it  with  bladder  skin.  The 
beef  may  be  poUed  without  in  the  iirat  instance  being  salted,  but  if  it 
18  done  it  should  have  salt  worked  up  witli  it,  and  be  soon  eaten  after 
potting.  Some  persons  make  their  potted  beef  of  meat  that  has 
been  previoualy  cooked,  but  the  above  will  be  £)und  to  be  the  beat 
receipt. 

181.— COW-HEEL. 

Having  been  thoroughly  washed,  scalded,  and  cleaned,  cut  them 
into  pieces  about  two  inches  long,  and  one  wide ;  dip  them  into  yolk 
of  egg,  cover  them  with  hne  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  paisley 
1,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt :  and  fry  them  in  boiling  butter. 


182. — AKOTHKB  WAT. 

Haring  cleaned  the  feet,  bone  them,  boil  them,  and  stew  them  in 
a  licfa  brown  gravy ;  serve  them  with  Indian  pickle.  Or,  if  plainly 
eoolMd,  boil  until  enough ;  then  serve  them  on  a  napkin,  with  mdted 
butter,  flavoured  with  a  spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  one  of  made  mustard. 
Lemon  pickle  may  be  served  with  them. 


G  2 


84  VEAL. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

VEAL. 

The  failing  of  this  meat  is  its  tendency  to  turn;  should  it  show  any 
symptoms  of  doing  this,  and  in  an  earlier  part  of  the  work  T  have 
explained  how  it  may  he  detected,  put  it  into  scalding  water  and  let 
it  boil  for  seven  or  eight  minutes,  with  some  pieces  of  charcoal  aflSzed, 
plunge  it  into  cold  water  immediately  after  taking  it  out  of  the  hot« 
and  put  it  into  the  coolest  place  you  have  at  command ;  the  skirt  from 
the  breast,  and  the  pipe  from  the  loin  should  always  be  removed  in  hot 
weather. 


183.— VEAL — THE   FILI.ET. 

The  fillet  derives  much  of  its  pleasant  flavour  from  being  stuffed. 
Veal,  in  itself,  being  nearly  tasteless,  the  stuffing  should  be  placed 
in  the  hollow  place  from  whence  the  bone  is  extracted,  and  the  joint 
should  be  roasted  a  beautiful  brown ;  it  should  be  roasted  gradually, 
as  the  meat  being  solid  will  require  to  be  thoroughly  done  through 
without  burning  die  outside  ;  like  pork,  it  is  sufficiently  indigestible 
without  being  sent  to  table  and  eaten  half  cooked  ;  a  dish  of  boiled 
hacon  or  ham  should  accompany  it  to  table,  a  lemon  also. 

In  roasting  veal,  care  must  be  taken  that  it  is  not  at  first  placed 
too  near  the  fire  ;  the  fat  of  a  loin,  one  of  the  most  delicate  joints  of 
veal,  should  be  covered  with  greased  paper,  a  fiUet  also,  should  have 
on  the  caul  until  nearly  enough  :  the  shoulder  should  be  thoroughly 
boiled,  when  nearly  done  dredge  with  flour,  and  produce  a  fine  firoth. 

184. — FILLET   OF  VEAL,   BOILED. 

Bind  it  round  with  tape,  put  it  in  a  floured  cloth  and  in  cold  water, 
boil  very  gently  two  hours  and  a  half,  or  if  simmered,  which  is  per- 
haps the  better  way,  four  hours  will  be  taken;  it  may  be  sent  to  table 
in  b6chamel  or  with  oyster  sauce. 

Care  should  be  taken  to  keep  it  as  white  as  possible. 


185.— BREAST  OF  VEAL  STEWED. 

Put  it  into  the  stew-pan  with  some  white  stock,  not  much,  add  a 
glass  of  sherry,  a  few  mushrooms,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  three 


VEAL.  85 

onions,  pepper,  and  salt.   Stew  till  tender,  strain  the  gravy,  and  send 
to  table  garnished  with  force-meat  balls. 


186. — BREAST   OF   VEAL,    BOILED. 

Put  it  into  plenty  of  cold  water,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  keep  the  scum 
cleared  as  often  as  it  rises,  when  it  boils  add  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  few 
blades  of  mace,  a  small  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  twenty  or  thirty  white 
peppers, 'Stew  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  send  to  table  with  a  nice  piece 
of  bacon,  and  parsley  and  butter. 


187. BREAST  OF  VEAL  RAGOUT. 

Divide  the  breast  lengthways  in  two,  cut  each  piece  into  portions 
of  a  reasonable  size,  put  them  into  a  pan  with  boiling  butter,  fiy  a 
dear  brown,  lay  the  pieces  in  a  stewpan  with  sufficient  veal  broth  to 
oorer  them,  throw  in  a  small  faggot  of  sweet  herbs  and  parsley,  two 
onkms,  one  large  blade  of  mace,  half  a  dessert  spoonful  of  allspice, 
md  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover  close, 
md  stew  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  longer  if  the  meat  requires  it ;  take 
it  off  and  strain  the  gravy,  remove  the  fat,  keep  the  veal  closely 
coYered,  and  in  a  small  stewpan  put  a  little  butter  and  flour,  pour  in 
the  strained  gravy  gradually,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  remove  any  scum 
that  may  rise,  pour  in  a  glass  of  sherry  or  Madeira,  two  table-spoon- 
Ibk  of  Harvey *8  sauce  or  mushroom  ketchup,  and  squeeze  in  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon ;  boil  it  up,  place  the  veal  in  a  deep  hot  dish,  pour 
the  gravy  over  it,  and  serve. 


188. BREAST  OF  VEAL— FORCED. 

After  taking  out  the  tendons  and  all  the  rib  bones,  flatten  and 
trim  the  veal,  spread  it  all  over  with  forcemeat,  sprinkle  over  it,  if 
TOO  have  got  it,  a  little  chopped  truffle  or  mushrooms,  sprinkle  a 
uttla  pepper  and  salt  over  it,  then  roll  it  tightly  up  and  tie  it,  then 
pot  it  into  a  cloth  and  stew  it  for  several  hours,  take  it  up,  and  take 
off  the  doth  and  strings ;  diy  it  and  glaze  it,  put  some  good  sauce. 


189. — SHOULDER  OF  VEAL. 

Bemove  the  knuckle  and  roast  what  remains,  as  the  fillet;  it  may 
€f  may  not  be  stuffed  at  pleasure ;  if  not  stuffed,  serve  with  oyster  or 
ttnihioom  sauce ;  if  stuffed,  with  melted  butter. 


100. — SHOULDER  OF  VEAL,  BONED  AND  STEWED. 

^  Bone  the  shoulder  and  lay  in  the  orifice  a  veal  forcemeat,  roll  and 
Und  the  shoulder,  roast  it  an  hour,  then  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with 
tpod  white  Cft  brown  gravy  and  stew  four  or  five  hoiurs,  regulate  the 
tOBe  to  the  lize  of  the  joint,  take  up  the  meat,  strain  the  gravy  ta 
denr  it  of  fill,  and  serve  with  forcemeat  balls. 


86  VSAL. 

191. — SHOULDER  OF  VEAX,  i  Uk  PIEI>1I0]ITSSE. 

Strip  the  skin  off  the  shoolder,  kaving  it  altecbed  it  <nM$  and ; 
now  lard  the  meat  with  fat  bacon  or  ham,  add  a  seasoning  of  sweet 
herbs,  mace,  parsley,  lemon-peel  chopped  fine,  pepper,  and  salt; 
replace  the  skin,  pkce  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  gravy,  and  stew  till 
fonder;  then  chop  tpinadi  fine,  to  which  add  a  table^spoonfol  of 
TiAegar,  chop  a  lettnce  with  it,  also  some  onions,  parsley,  and  woafeh 
looms,  ttew  them  in  butter ;  add  to  them  when  tender  tome  of  thi 
gravy,  bits  of  ham,  and  some  sweetbreads,  stew  all  together  lov  • 
short  time,  lift  up  the  skin  of  the  shoulder,  and  place  the  herbs  orsr 
and  under,  return  the  skin  as  before,  pour  melted  butter  over  it,  add 
crumbs  of  bread,  brown  it  iu  the  oven,  and  serve  hot  vrith  gravy  in 
the  dish. 


102.«— LOIIt  OF  YEAI^    STBWED. 

The  ehmnp  end  is  the  pan  to  stew.  Pot  it  well  floured  into  m 
stewpan  with  butter ;  after  the  hotter  has  been  browned  over  the  fin, 
brown  it,  and  when  a  good  eoloer  pour  in  enough  veal  broth  tb  faatf 
cover  it,  put  in  two  carrots  cut  in  pieces,  an  onion^  a  little  pttBley* 
and  a  small  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  stew  it  two  hours  and  a  halt  tniB 
it  when  half  done,  when  enough,  take  out  the  meat,  thicken  the  broth, 
season  itr  and  pour  over  the  veal. 

193. — LOIW   OF  VBAL. 

Divide  the  loin,  roast  the  kidney,  and  place  under  the  fat  a  toasts 
end  serve  swimming  in  melted  butter.  The  chunip  end  most  be 
stuffed  with  the  same  stuffing  as  the  fillet,  and  served  with  the  same 
sauce ;  those  who  object  to  putting  the  stuffing  in  the  joint,  may 
send  it  to  table  with  balls  of  stuffing  in  the  dish. 

1^4. — LOITI   OF  VEAI,,   BOILED. 

Take  a  loin  about  eight  pounds,  skewer  down  the  flap  without  dis- 
turbing the  kidney,  put  the  loin  into  a  kettle  with  enough  cold  tniter 
to  cover  it,  let  it  come  gradually  to  a  boil  (it  cannot  boil  too  slowly), 
continue  for  two  hours  and  a  quarter,  but  it  must  boil ;  remove  the 
scum  as  it  rises,  send  it  to  table  in  b^hatnel,  or  with  parsley  and 
melted  butter. 


196.— KNUCKLE  OF  VEAI.. 

Get  a  knuckle  of  a  leg  of  veal,  sow  it  in  three  parts,  hot  not  to 
separate  it,  scald  it,  and  put  it  for  a  few  minutes  in  cold  water^ 
then  place  it  in  a  stewpan  with  some  good  second  stock,  an  onion  or 
two,  a  faggot  of  herba,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  a  carrot,  a  turnip, 
and  a  head  of  celery,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  dice  of  raw  haiti,  fat  and 
ken ;  stew  it  for  several  hours*  until  the  gristle  is  soft,  take  out  the 
feal,  cover  it  over  to  keep  it  white;  strain  the  liquor,  wash  a  pound 
ef  rice  and  boil  it  in  this  liquor,  add  half  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk, 
when  the  lice  is  done  put  your  veal  again  into  it  to  make  hot;  dish 
your  veal  carefully,  and.  season  the  rice  ivith  pepper  and  salt,;  sn4 


VEAL.  87 

pofor  over  the  veal ;  if  with  parsley  and  batter  instead  of  water,  use 
the  stock  bom  it,  and  diop  fine  some  boiled  parsley  and  mix  into  it. 


196. — KMucKrje  of  veal,  boiled. 

• 

Flit  suflieient  water  over  it  to  cover  it,  let  it  boil  gently,  and  when 
it  BBidies  a  boil  as  much  salt  as  would  fill  a  dessert-spoon  may  be 
throws  is,  keep  it  well  skimmed,  and  boil  until  tender,  serve  with 
pnalej  and  bntter,  and  a  salted  cheek. 

ASow  twentf  minutes  to  each  pound. 

Three-  quarters  of  a  pound  of  rice  may  be  boiled  with  it,  or  green 
peas,  or  cucumbers;  turnips  and  small  spring  onions  may  be  put  in, 
allowing  them  so  much  time  fi^m  the  cooing  of  the  veal  as  they 
will  require. 


197.— KNUCKLE  OF  VEAL,  STEWED. 

Hice  your  knuckle  of  veal  in  a  stewpan,  if  the  knuckle  is  a  very 
kvfr  one  ft  may  be  divided  into  two  or  three  pieces  for  the  sake  of 
MBfunence,  put  in  the  pan  with  it  a  few  blades  of  mace,  a  litde 
Ayvift,  an-  onion,  some  whole  pepper,  a  burnt  crust  of  bread,  and 
eovcr  with  from  three  to  four  pints  of  water,  cover  down  close,  and 
boil ;  when  it  has  boiled  place  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire  and  let  it 
simmer  for  at  least  two  hours,  take  it  up,  keep  it  hot  while  you  strain 
its  liquor*  then  |)our  the  gravy  over  it,  and  send  it  to  table  with  a 
IssKiii  gpnish. 

198. ANOTHER   WAT. 

the  knuckle  boil  slowly  in  sufficient  water  till  it  is  tender, 
a  sance  of  butter  and  Hour,  with  parsley  in  it  chopped  fine^ 
sfiee-ft  lemon  and  garnish  the  dish  vnth  it. 


199i — NECK   OP  VEAL 

Mlvf  he  boiM  or  roasted — ^t^e  latter  only  if  it  be  the  best  end,  and 
not  tor  tsMir  garnished  as  in  the  above  engraving — it  may  be  broiled 
ise&ops,  bat  is  best  in  a  pie ;  it  may  be,  however,  larded  and  stewed 
asMlovs:'-^ 


200. NECH   OF   VEAL   STEWHD. 

iMtd!  ft  with  square  pieces  of  bam  or  bacon  which  has  been  pre- 
ykndj  rubbed  in  a  preparation  of  shalots,  spices,  pepper,  and  salt ; 
llsee  it  in  the  stewpan  with  about  three  pints  of  white  stock,  add  a 
uij  or  laurel  Isif,  and  a  eoopliB  of  onions ;  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
'   or  whiikegr^tiie  latter  if  brandy  is  not  at  hand,  stew  till  tender, 

sttain  the  gmvj,  pour  over  the  joint,  and  serve. 


88  VEAL. 

201. — NECK   OF  VEAL — BRAISED. 

This  is  done  much  in  the  same  manner  as  the  neck  of  veal  stewed; 
it  is  larded  with  bacon  rolled  in  chopped  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and 
nutmeg,  placed  with  the  scrag  in  a  tosser,  in  which  place  lean  bacon, 
celery,  carrots,  one  onion,  a  glass  of  sheny  or  Madeira,  with  sufficient 
water  to  cover  it  all,  stew  over  a  quick  fire  until  it  is  sufficiently  ten- 
der, i:emove  the  veal  and  strain  the  gravy,  place  the  veal  in  a  stewpan 
in  which  some  butter  and  flour  has  been  browned,  let  the  bones  be 
uppermost,  when  the  veal  is  nicely  coloured  it  is  enough,  boil  as  much 
of  the  liquor  as  may  be  required,  skim  it  clean,  squeeze  a  lemon  into 
it,  pour  it  over  the  meat,  and  serve. 


ii02. — VEAL   CUTLETS. 

The  cutlets  should  be  cut  as  handsomely  as  possible,  and  about 
three  quarters  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  they  should  before  cooking  be 
well  beaten  with  the  blade  of  a  chopper,  if  a  proper  beater  be  not  at 
hand,  they  should  then  be  fried  a  light  brown  and  sent  up  to  table, 
garnished  with  parsley  and  rolls  of  thin  sliced,  nicely  fried  bacon ; 
they  are  with  advantage  coated  previously  to  cooking  with  the  yolk 
of  an  egg,  and  dredged  with  bread  crumbs. 


203. — ANOTHER   WAY. 

Procure  your  cutlets  cut  as  above,  coat  them  with  the  yolk  of  eggs 
well  beaten,  strew  over  them  bread  crumbs  powdered,  sweet  herbs, 
and  grated  lemon  peel  and  nutmeg,  put  some  iresh  butter  in  the  pan, 
and  when  boiling  put  in  your  cutlets ;  now  make  some  good  gravy ; 
when  the  cutlets  are  cooked  take  them  out  and  keep  them  before  the 
fire  to  keep  hot,  dredge  into  the  pan  a  little  flour,  put  in  a  piece  of 
batter,  pour  a  Httle  white  stock,  squeeze  in  juice  of  lemon  to  taste, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  mushroom-ketchup,  boil  quickly 
until  a  hght  brown,  pour  it  over  the  cutlets,  and  serve,  the  cutlets 
being  laid  in  a  circle  round  the  dish,  and  the  gravy  in  the  centre. 


204. — VEAL   CUTLETS   CURRIED. 

The  cutlets  may  be  prepared  as  for  coUops  by  cutting  them  into 
shape,  dipping  them  into  the  yolk  of  eggs,  and  seasoning  them  with 
fine  bread  crumbs  about  four  table-spoonfuls,  two  spoonfuls  of 
curry-powder,  and  one  of  salt ;  fry  them  in  fresh  butter ;  serve  with 
curry  sauce,  which  may  be  made  with  equal  parts  of  curry  powder, 
flour,  and  butter,  worked  well  together  into  a  paste ;  put  it  into  the 
pan  from  which  the  cutlets  have  been  removed,  moisten  with  a  cup> 
Jul  of  water  in  which  cayenne  and  salt  have  been  stirred;  let  it 
thicken  and  serve  veiy  hot. 

205. — VEAL  CUTLETS— CRUMBED  OR  PLAIN. 

If  you  have  not  got  the  leg  of  veal  or  the  cutlet  jnece  I- before 
named,  get  a  thick  slice  of  yeal  and  cut  fourteen  good  uied  collets. 


VEAL.  89 

not  too  thin,  flatten  each,  aud  trim  them  a  good  shape,  wet  your  beater 
in  cold  water  to  keep  the  veal  from  sticking,  if  for  ijABin  cutlets 
flower  them  well  and  dry  them,  then  again  have  ready  your  saut^ 
pan  or  fin^ingpan  quite  hot,  >vith  a  good  bit  of  lard  or  butter,  then 
pat  in  your  cutlets,  and  fry  a  nice  light  brown ;  pepper  and  salt  them ; 
if  to  be  bread  crumbed,  trim  them  as  before ;  have  ready  a  little 
clarified  butter,  some  chopped  parsley,  and  shalot,  pepper,  and  salt, 
all  mixed  together  with  a  yolk  or  two  of  eggs  well  mixed ,  have  ready 
some  bread  crumbs,  put  a  spoonful  of  flour  amongst  them  well 
mixed ;  dip  each  cutlet  into  this  omelet,  and  thin  bread  crumb  them, 
patting  each  cutlet  with  your  knife  to  keep  it  the  proper  shape, 
making  the  bread  crumbs  stick  to  the  cutlet ;  melt  some  Iturd  in  your 
8aat6  pan,  and  place  your  cutlets  in  it  ready  to  fry  a  nice  brown. 


206. VEAL   CUTLETS — A   LA   MAINTENON. 

Half  fry  your  cutlets,  dip  them  in  a  seasoning  of  bread  crumbs, 
paialey,  shalots,  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  enclose 
tbmn  in  clean  writing  paper,  and  broil  them. 


207.— COLLOPS  OF  VEAL. 

The  piece  of  veal  as  before  named,  or  if  you  have  it,  a  leg  of  veal,  if 
not  get  a  cutlet  and  cut  it  into  thin  pieces,  and  beat  veiy  thin,  sauto 
them  off,  and  when  all  done  trim  them  round  the  size  of  a  crown 
piece,  pepper  and  salt  them,  place  them  in  a  stewpan  with  some 
codley  sauce  if  for  brown,  and  if  for  white  bechamel  sauce,  add  some 
fraoemeat  balls,  some  stewed  mushrooms,  and  some  whole  dressed  truf- 
fles, season  with  pepper,  salt,  sugar,  and  lemon;  dish  the  coUops 
zoond  as  you  would  cutlets,  putting  the  mushrooms,  and  balls,  and 
trnfiBes  in  the  middle. 


208.— VEAL   COLLOPS 

May  be  cooked  precisely  similar  to  beef  coUops,  or  as  No.  200. 


209. — ^VEAL  CHOPS — larded. 

'  Tbese  are  from  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of  veal,  three  thick  chops 
with  a  bone  to  each,  trimmed  neatly,  either  larded  or  not :  but  you 
vfll  biaise  as  the  former,  and  glaze  them. 


210. — TENDONS  OF  VEAL. 

This  is  from  a  breast  of  veal.  Turn  up  the  breast  and  with  a 
diarp  knife  cut  off  the  chine  bone  all  along,  taking  care  you  do  not 
take  any  of  the  gristle  with  the  bone ;  when  you  have  cut  off  this 
bone,  place  your  knife  under  the  gristle  and  foUow  it  all  along  until 
yon  have  raised  it  up ;  then  cut  off  the  tendons  by  keeping  close  to 
the  rib  bones ;  when  you  have  got  it  out  cut  twelve  or  fourteen  ten- 
dona  endways,  keeping  your  kmfe  slanting,  as  each  may  be  the  size 
tl  a  small  ps^  loond,  but  not  too  thin ;  then  put  them  on  in  cold 


M  VEAL. 


mter  to  loaid,  then  put  them  in  cold  again ;  preparo  a  atewyaa  lined 
with  fiit  bacon  or  ham,  trim  each  tendon  rounds  throw  the  turnip  in 
your  braiae,  cover  them  with  aecond  stock  and  some  of  the  alrimmtny^ 
let  them  stew  gently  for  six  or  seven  hours ;  be.  oaieful  in  taking 
them  up,  and  place  diem  separatelj  upon  a  drying  sieve  ;  glaae  tban 
two  or  three  times ;  dish  them  on  a  border ;  thsy  diould  be  so  tendet 
that  you  might  suck  them  through  a  quilL 


^11.— 6ALA!rnV£  VEAL. 

Take  a  large  breast  of  veal ;  take  off  the  chine  bone,  then  tafta 
out  the  gristle  called  tendons,  then  take  out  oJI  the  rib  bones ;  flatten 
it  well,  have  ready  some  good  forcemeat  or  sausage  meat ;  spread  It 
all  over  with  your  forcemeat,  then  make  a  line  of  green  gheitms, 
then  a  line  of  red  capsicums,  then  a  line  of  fat  ham  or  bacon,  then 
some  hard  boiled  yoUcs  of  eggs,  then  a  line  of  truffles;  if  you  have 
any  boiled  calves'  feet  left  from  jelly  stocky  spriaUe  it  in  with  pieces 
«f  breast  of  fowl ;  sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  aH  over  it,  than  roll  it  wg 
tightly,  and  likewise  do  so  in  a  cloth ;  tie  it  up  h^ttt ;  stew  it  i>r  tm 
hours  or  more ;  take  it  up  and  press  it  flat,  let  it  lie  until  quite 
cold ;  take  off  the  cloth,     it  will  make  excellent  cold  dishes. 


a  liJ.— OLIVES  OF  VEAL — RATI. 

Cnt  some  cutlets  a  moderate  thickness  from  the  ohnmp  end  of  tki 
loin  of  real,  beat  them  and  trim  them,  eight  or  a  dezen, 
to  dish ;  get  some  slices  of  ham  or  bacon,  cover  the  veal  with 
meat  and  witii  the  fiit,  sprinkle  between  a  little  chopped  muriunMma^ 
pepper  and  salt,  roll  meh  up,  and  tie  and  skewer  eadi,  then  egg  ani 
bread  eramb  them,  bake  them  in  the  oven  with  buttered  paper  owm 
them,  cut  the  string  when  done,  and  before  you  sen^  them  U>  taJbhi 
draw  the  skewer,  put  asparagus  sauce,  tomato,  or  mushroom  in  the 
dish. 


213. — POTTED   VEAL. 

This  may  be  potted  as  beef,  or  thus : — ^pound  oold  veal  in  a  mortar, 
work  up  with  it  in  powder  mace,  pepper,  and  salt,  shred  the  leanest 
part  of  tongue  very  finely,  or  ham  is  sometimes  used;  place  in  a 
jar  or  pot  a  layer  of  the  pounded  veal,  and  upon  that  a  layer  of  ifie 
tongue,  and  continue  alternately  until  the  pot  is  fuH,  seeing  that 
every  layer  is  well  pressed  down ;  pour  over  the  top  melted  clarified 
butter.  If  it  is  desired,  and  which  is  frequently  done,  to  marble  the 
veal,  cut  the  tongde  or  ham  in  square  dice  instead  of  ahredding  it, 
but  care  must  be  taken  that  they  do  not  touch  each  other  or  ib» 
effect  is  daatioyed. 


214. — VEAL  BABICOED. 

Bone  ibe-  beat  end  of  tlia  neck,  put  it  in  a  stewpaa  wiik  tbii» 
uiUs  pf  jv  vich*  bn»w»  gruvj-— l#tt.tluu».be  eaao^  ti»qorer  i)^  at^wi;, 


VEAL.  91 

whilst  this  is  proceeding,  stew  four  good  sized  cucnmbers  pared  and 
sliced,  with  a  pint  of  peas,  and  a  couple  of  cabbage-lettuces  cut  in 
fouten,  in  some  broth ;  when  sufficientlj  stewed,  and  the  Teal  is 
wmiAj  done,  add  them  to  it,  simmer  ten  minutes,  serve  with  force- 
balls. 


215. — MTNCEI)    TEAL, 

Cnt  the  meat  intended  to  be  minced,  which  may  be  of  any  cold  joint 
of  Teal,  into  very  small  pieces,  shred  lemon  peel  very  fine,  grated  nut- 
meg, add  salt  and  half  a  dozen  table-spoonfuls  of  white  stock,  or  if 
ooDflidered  preferable,  milk;  let  these  simmer  slowly  without  boiling; 
add  batter  rubbed  in  flour  when  nearly  done,  aud  when  enough  into 
the  dish  lay  diamonds  of  toasted  bread  round  the  dish,  each  bearing 
a  thin  half  slice  of  lemon,  strew  fried  bread  crumbs  lightly  over  the 
▼eal,  and  garnish  with  thin  slices  of  boiled  bacon  in  rolls. 


216. — PAIK   DE   VEAU. 

These  cakes  may  be  made  according  to  the  receipt  for  beef  cakes, 
page  73. 

217. A  KOTX  DE  VEAU. 

You  must  have  a  leg  of  veal  from  a  cow  calf,  with  a  good  white 
udder ;  cut  the  veal  as  you  did  for  the  fricandeau,  but  be  sure  and 
leaye  all  the  udder  to  it,  and  do  not  cut  it  off,  only  trim  and  lard 
where  it  is  not ;  tie  the  udder  down  to  the  veal  before  you  scald  it, 
and  well  cover  the  udder  with  fat  bacon  to  keep  it  particularly  white. 
The  white  udder  you  may  garnish  with  a  wreath  of  boiled  green 
French  beans,  or  tarragon,  or  truffles,  but  glaze  the  larding  as  for 
the  fricandeau  ;  be  careful  in  dishing  of  it  that  the  fat  does  not  slip 
ftDMrlfae  kaA. 


218. — 6REKADINS  OF  VEAL 

Is  the  last  piece  left  with  the  veins ;  after  cutting  out  the  fricandeau, 
die  oollop  which  you  will  see  is  round,  and  the  cutlet  piece,  then  this 
solid  round  piece,  which  you  will  cut  in  half  and  trim  it  as  you  did 
the  former,  keeping  them  either  round  or  oval,  lard  them  and  braise 
them  the  same  as  a  fricandeau,  only  less  time. 


219 — OREXADINS  FROM  A  NECK  OF  VEAL. 

About  five  bones  from  the  best  end  of  the  neck  ;  cut  out  the  fillet 
close  to  the  bones,  trim  it  free  from  skin  and  sinews ;  flatten  it  with 
your  beater,  and  trim  it  nicely. 


220. — ibrTNcfeES. 

likewise  made  from  dressed  meat  cut  into  very  small  dice ;  put 
fried  or  toasted  bread  sippets  round  the  dish;  a  mashed  potato  or  rice 
rim  is  the  neatest  way  for  both  these  dishes  to  be  sent  to  table. 


92  VEAL. 

221. — FBICANDEAU   OF  VEAL. 

Cut  this  from  a  large  leg  of  veal,  place  the  boue  from  you,  then 
the  meat  will  be  in  front  of  you,  you  will  see  small  veins  in  different 
directions,  put  your  knife  in  the  one  which  is  largest,  following  it  all 
round,  then  take  that  piece  off,  lay  it  upon  your  dresser,  take  clean 
off  the  skin,  keeping  the  meat  rather  high  in  the  middle ;  shave  it 
very  smooth,  lay  Uie  end  of  your  rubber  upon  it,  and  with  your 
beater  beat  it  well :  take  off  your  cloth  and  turn  it  again;  keeping  it 
the  shape  of  the  veal  bone,  turn  it  over  flat  on  a  plate,  cut  off  any 
skin  or  pipe,  then  lard  it  with  fat  bacon;  if  for  a  Jew*s  family,  lard  it 
with  smoked  beef  fat,  to  be  had  from  their  own  butcher's,  or  truffles ; 
when  it  is  larded  put  on  a  stewpan  of  cold  water,  place  your  veal  in 
it,  keeping  the  bacon  downwards,  as  otherwise  the  scum  will  settle 
on  the  top,  skim  it,  and  when  it  simmers  put  your  stewpan  under 
the  top,  and  let  it  dribble  gently  upon  it  for  five  minutes,  then  tarn 
it  over  and  take  it  up ;  then  line  a  stewpan  with  fat  bacon  or  ham 
cut  in  slices,  a  carrot,  turnip,  and  onions,  a  celery,  a  faggot  of  sweet 
herbs,  put  your  fricandeau  on  a  drainer  in  your  stewpan,  cover  the 
top  with  thin  shces  of  bacon,  half  cover  it  with  some  second  stock, 
place  it  on  a  slow  flre  to  stew  gently,  keeping  a  little  all  the  time  on 
the  top ;  it  will  take  about  three  hours,  it  should  be  as  tender  as  to 
be  helped  with  a  spoon,  take  it  up  and  glaze  it  several  times. 


222. — ^BLANQUETTE   DE   VEAU. 

This  dish  may  be  dressed  according  to  the  receipt  Blanquette 
d'Agneau,  page  109. 

223. ^VEAL,    CURRIED. 

Cut  the  veal  to  be  curried  in  small  pieces — any  part  of  veal,  cooked 
or  uncooked,  that  is  palatable,  will  serve.  Put  in  a  stewpan  six 
ounces  of  fresh  butter,  add  to  it  half  a  pint  of  good  white  stock  and 
one  table-spoonful  of  curry  powder,  put  to  this  the  veal  to  be  curried, 
cover  down  close,  simmer  for  two  hours,  squeeze  a  quarter  of  a  lemon 
into  it,  and  serve  with  a  dish  of  boiled  rice. 


224. — GALF*8  HEAD. 

The  same  way  as  No.  195  ;  take  out  the  tongue  and  cut  it  in  half, 
and  beat  up  the  brains  in  the  parsley  and  butter,  and  season  with 
pepper  and  salt. 

225. — IF  FOR  QRILL. 

When  the  head  is  boiled  sufficiently,  draw  out  all  the  bones,  and 
put  it  to  cool,  and  then  cut  it,  if  not  required  whole,  into  square  long 
pieces,  egg  and  bread  crumb  them  as  you  would  cutlets,  only  add 
some  chopped  sweet  herbs,  as  well  as  paisley ;  put  it  in  your  oven  to 
brown. 


VEAL.  93 


226. — calf's  head. 


Let  the  head  be  thoroughly  cleaned,  the  brains  and  tongae  be 
taken  out,  boil  it  in  a  cloth  to  keep  it  white  (it  is  as  well  to  soak  the 
head  for  two  or  three  hours  previously  to  boiling,  it  helps  to  improve 
the  colour),  wash,  soak,  and  blanch  the  brains,  then  boil  them,  scald 
some  sage,  chop  it  fine,  add  pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  little  milk,  mix 
it  with  the  brains ;  the  tongue,  which  should  be  soaked  in  salt  and 
water  for  twenty-four  hours,  should  be  boiled,  peeled,  and  served  on 
a  separate  dish.  The  head  should  boil  until  tender,  and  if  intended 
to  be  sent  to  table  plainly,  should  be  served  as  taken  up,  with  melted 
hotter  and  parsley,  if  otherwise,  when  the  head  is  boiled  sufficiently 
tender,  take  it  up,  spread  over  a  coat  of  the  yolk  of  egg  well  beaten 
xxp^  powder  with  bread  crumbs,  and  brown  before  the  fire  in  a  Dutch 
or  American  oven. 


227. — CALF*S   HEAD — BAKED. 

Butter  the  head,  and  powder  it  with  a  seasoning  composed  of 
bread  crumbs,  very  fine,  a  few  sweet  herbs  and  sage,  chopped  very 
fine,  cayenne,  white  pepper,  and  salt.  Divide  the  brains  into 
seyeral  pieces,  not  too  small,  sprinkle  them  with  bread  crumbs,  and 
lay  them  in  the  dish  with  the  head.  Stick  a  quantity  of  small  pieces 
of  butter  over  the  head  and  in  the  eyes,  throw  crumbs  over  all,  pour 
in  three  parts  of  the  dish  full  of  water,  and  liake  in  a  fast  oven  two 
hours. 


228.— calf's  head,  a  la  maitre  d 'h6tel. 

Gut  into  very  small  coUops  the  meat  of  a  calfs  head  which  has 
been  boiled  and  is  cold ;  put  into  a  stewpau,  well  kneaded  butter  and 
flour.  Simmer  them  two  minutes  without  colouring  them ;  pour 
gently  in  two  tea-cupfuls  of  veal  broth,  and  let  it  boil  three  minutes. 
]piit  in  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  mushroom  ketchup,  two  dessert-spoonfuls 
of  yinegar,  one  of  Chili  ditto,  a  sprinkle  of  cayenne,  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pounded  white  sugar.  When  it  boils  put  in  the  meat, 
over  which  parsley,  minced  finely,  has  been  spread.  Heat  it  through 
by  simmering,  and  serve. 


229. — TO  HASH  calf's  head. 

If  this  dish  is  to  be  made  of  the  remains  of  a  head  already  cooked, 
there  is  no  necessity  to  re-boil  it  before  it  is  placed  in  the  stewpan 
with  the  other  ingredients ;  if  it  is  made  with  one  as  yet  uncooked, 
aoak  it  throughly  for  two  hours,  parboil  it,  cut  the  meat  in  slices 
about  an  inch  thick  and  three  inches  long,  or  smaller,  if  preferred ; 
brown  an  onion  sliced  in  flour  and  butter  in  a  stew  or  saute  pan,  add 
the  meat  with  as  much  rich  gravy  as  the  quantity  of  meat  ^ill  per- 
mit, season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne:  let  it  boil,  then 'skim 
dean,  simmer  until  the  meat  is  quite  tender ;  a  few  minutes  before 
yoa  serve  throw  in  parsley  in  fine  shreds  and  some  sweet  herbs 


94  V£Ai«. 

chopped  veiy  fine,  squeeze  a  little  lemon  in,  garnish  with  forcemeat 
2m11s  or  thin  ahcea  of  broiled  ham  rolled. 

If  expense  is  not  an  obyeet  you  may  add  morels  and  trafiSLai  is  liia 
browning. 

^30.-— CALF*S  HEAD  k  LA  TOBTUE. 

Bone  a  calfs  head  whole ;  after  being  well  scalded  and  cleaned 
eat  off  the  ears,  take  out  the  tongue,  cut  the  gristle  and  bones  from 
ifie  tongue;  prepare  a  good  forcemeat,  add  some  chopped  truffles 
into  it,  and  some  mushrooms ;  lay  the  head  on  a  clean  cloth  on  the 
dresser,  spread  it  thickly  over  with  the  forcemeat,  blanch  and  take  off 
the  skin  of  the  tongue ;  cut  each  ear  in  half  longways,  place  them  in 
different  parts  on  &e  forcemeat  and  the  tongue  in  the  middle,  lap  it 
over  keeping  it  high  in  the  middle,  tie  the  ends,  and  brace  it  all 
over  tightly  with  some  loose  string,  as  by  doing  so  it  will  leave  all 
the  marks  appearing  when  glazed  like  the  back  shell  of  turtle,  then 
tie  it  up  in  a  cloth;  it  will  take  some  hours  to  boil ;  when  done,  which 
will  be  in  your  second  stock,  take  it  up  and  take  off  the  doth,  put  it 

rn  the  dish,  diy  it  and  glaze  it  several  times ;  have  ready  cut  frooi 
crumb  of  bread  the  form  of  a  turtle*8  head  and  the  four  finai  Ixj 
them  a  nice  light  brown,  and  glaze  them  with  the  head,  placing 
them  to  the  head  on  the  dish,  as  to  look  like  a  turtle  crawling,  for  tlie 
eyes  use  whites  of  hard  boiled  eggs ;  a  sauce  you  wiU  find  among 
the  sauces. 


231. — calves'  eabs. 

Scald  the  hair  from  the  ears,  and  clean  them  thoroughly;  boil 
them  until  they  are  tender  in  veal  gravy,  and  then  blanch  them  in 
cold  spring  water.  Serve  them  in  chervil  sauce,  or  in  the  gravy 
thickened  and  seasoned  in  which  they  were  cooked.  A  sauce  maj 
be  made  of  melted  butter,  with  chervil  mashed  and  put  in«  stnuxMd 
with  the  butter  through  a  sieve,  and  white  sauce  added.  White 
sauce  is  sometimes  sent  up  alone  with  the  ears;  in  that  case  it  should 
he  flavoured  with  mushroom  powder. 


232. — CALVBS'  EABS STUFFED. 

Prepare  as  above,  and  make  a  stuffing  of  calves*  liver,  ham  grated, 
fat  bacon,  bread  steeped  in  cream,  sweet  herbs,  a  little  mace,  a  little 
salt,  and  bind  it  with  an  egg  unbeaten.  Stuff  the  ears  with  it.  The 
ears  should  be  cut  very  close  to  the  head,  and  the  gristly  part  suf- 
ficiently smooth  to  enable  the  ears  to  stand  upright  when  served. 
Bub  the  ears  over  with  egg,  and  fry  them  a  delicate  brown.  Ser\'e 
with  brown  gravy. 


238.— calves'  eabs — stuffed. — akother  way. 

Blanch  for  an  hour  three  ears ;  take  them  up,  and  cut  the  eaiB 
round  at  the  top,  fill  them  with  some  prepared  farce ;  slit  the  ears  in 


TSAli.  9S 


three  or  four  places  so  that  lihej  maj  cxxA  down ;  put  them  to  stew 
ki  mnB  good  second  stock,  put  a  truffle  or  plover's  egg  on  each  top 
of  the  fiuree ;  glaze  there  well  several  times ;  put  mushroom  sauee  or 
fnx^  of  tomata  or  truffles,  or  a  piquant  sauce,  either  a  white  sauoe 
or'hiDwn,  whichever  suits  your  other  dishes. 


234.— CALVES*  FEET  OR  EARS 

Can  he  dressed  the  same  way,  or  "fiied  in  hutter  a  la  friture  with 
aanoe  or  fried  pareley. 


235. — CALVES*   FEET. 

VSiej  should  he  very  clean,  hoil  them  three  hours,  or  until  thej 
iTO  tender,  serve  them  with  parsley  and  butter. 


236.— CALVES 'feet   STEWED. 

Wash  them  clean,  divide  without  entirely  separating  them,  lay 
them  open  in  the  stewpan,  and  cover  them  with  veal  broth,  rather 
more  than  enough  to  cover  them  will  be  sufficient.  Cut  into  pieces 
a  slice  of  tender  beef,  and  add  to  the  stew ;  -when  it  boils  throw  in 
a  fikde  salt,  dear  the  scum  as  it  rises,  throw  in  <a  £iggot  of  parsley, 
a  small  head  of  celery,  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  Uiree  small  ones 
plain,  a  good  sized  carrot,  two  blades  of  mace,  and  two  dozen  pepper- 
corns. Stew  until  the  flesh  separates  from  the  bones,  and  take  it  off 
carefully,  strain  off  half  the  gravy,  or  as  much  as  you  require,  and 
put  in  two  spoonfuls  of  Harvey's  sauce,  thicken  it  with  flour  and 
butter.  When  it  is  very  hot  return  the  feet.  Pour  in  a  glass  of 
Madeira,  Bucellas,  or  pale  sherry,  and  serve. 


937, — calves'  feet  itucaseed  (pieds  de  veau  EN  fricasee). 

Soak  them  three  hours,  simmer  them  in  equal  proportions  of  milk 
and  water,  until  they  are  sufficiently  tender  to  remove  the  meat 
from  the  bones,  in  good  sized  pieces.  Dip  them  in  yolk  of  egg, 
cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  and  sdt  them ;  fry  a  beautiful 
hiO¥ni,  and  serve  in  white  sauce. 


238. — calf's  heart. 
Staffed  and  roasted  precisely  as  beef  heart. 


239.— calf's  kidney 

^&7  be  dressed  as  mutton  or  beef  kidney,  or  mince  it  with  some  of 
^  feX,  add  cayenne,  white  pepper,  and  salt,  cover  it  with  bread 
^^i^bs  and  with  yolk  of  egg,  make  it  up  into  balls  and  fiy  in  boiling 
^^^  batter,  dndn  them  upon  a  sieve,  and  serve  them  upon  Med 
PttBley. 


96  VSAL. 

240.-»CALVE8'  BRAINS. 

Wash  them,  remove  the  skin,  and  scald  them.  Diy  them  well, 
fry  them  in  butter,  serve  with  mushroom  sauce.  Instead  of  this, 
when  cleaned  and  scalded,  chop  them  finely,  simmer  them  with 
mushrooms,  onions,  parsley,  sage,  and  white  sauce.  Season  highly, 
serve  with  fried  parsley  and  fried  sippets. 


241.— calf's  ltver. 

Lay  the  liver  in  vinegar  for  twelve  hours,  it  will  render  it  firm ; 
dip  it  in  cold  spring  water  and  wipe  it  dry,  cut  it  in  even  slices, 
sprinkle  sweet  herbs,  crumbled  finely,  over  it,  add  pepper  and  salt, 
and  dredge  with  fiour,  fry  in  boiling  lard  or  butter,  the  last  is 
preferable ;  remove  the  liver  when  fried  a  nice  brown,  pour  awaj  a 
portion  of  the  fat,  and  pour  in  a  cupful  of  water  with  a  lump  of  butter 
well  rolled  in  fiour,  in  which  a  spoonfiil  of  vinegar  and  cayenne  or 
lemon  juice  has  been  stirred,  boil  it  up,  keeping  it  stirred  all  the 
while,  and  serve  the  liver  up  in  it ;  thin  slices  of  hot  fried  bacon 
should  be  sent  to  table  ^\ith  it. 


242— CALF*S  LIVER  AND  LIGHTS. 

Parboil  and  mince,  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  little  of  the  water 
in  which  they  were  boiled,  thicken  with  butter  and  flour,  add  nh 
and  pepper,  simmer,  and  sen^e  when  heated  through. 


MUTTON.  97 


CHAPTER  V. 

HUTTON. 

This  is  a  delicate  and  a  favourite  meat,  it  is  susceptible  of  many 
modes  of  cooking,  and  should  always  be  served  very  hot  and  with 
rery  hot  plates,  except  of  course  in  cases  where  it  may  be  sent  to 
table  as  a  cold  dish.  It  is  a  meat  which  requires  care  in  the  cooking, 
which  it  will  amply  repay.  The  roasting  parts  are  the  better  for 
hanging  some  time,  especially  the  haunch  or  saddle,  but  not  for 
boilmg,  as  the  colour  is  apt  to  be  injured.  One  of  the  most  favourite 
dishes  is  the 


243. — IIAUNCH   OF   MUTTON'. 

The  haunch  should  be  hung  as  long  as  possible  without  being 
tunied,  it  should  be  washed  with  vinegar  every  day  while  hanging, 
and  dried  thoroughly  after  each  washing ;  if  the  weather  be  muggy 
mbbing  with  sugar  will  prevent  its  turning  sour,  if  warm  weather, 
pepper  and  ground  ginger  rubbed  over  it  will  keep  off  the  flies. 

When  ready  for  roasting  paper  the  fat,  commence  roasting  some 
distance  from  the  fire,  baste  with  milk  and  water  first,  and  then  when 
the  fat  begins  dripping,  change  the  dish  and  baste  with  its  own 
dripping,  half  an  hour  previous  to  its  being  done  remove  the  paper 
from  the  fat,  place  it  closer  to  the  fire,  baste  well,  serve  with  currant 
jcUy: 


244. — SADDLE    OF   MUTTON. 

This  joint  like  the  haunch,  gains  much  of  its  flavour  from  hanging 
for  some  period,  the  skin  should  be  taken  off,  but  skewered  on  again 
cmtil  within  rather  more  than  a  quarter  of  an  hour  of  its  being  done, 
then  let  it  be  taken  off,  dredge  the  saddle  with  flour,  baste  well.  The 
kidneys  may  be  removed  or  remain  at  pleasure,  but  the  fat  which  is 
found  within  the  saddle  should  be  removed  previous  to  cooking. 


245. — LEG    OF   MUTTON   ROASTED. 

Like  the  haunch  and  saddle  should  be  hung  before  cooking,  should 
be  slowly  roasted  and  served  with  onion  sauce  or  currant  jelly. 

246. — ROAST  LEO  OF  MUTTON. — ANOTHER  RECEIPT. 

Pat  the  leg  into  an  iron  saucepan  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover 
it,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  gently,  parboil  it  by  simmering  only ;  have 

H 


98  mrrroN. 


the  spit  or  jack  ready,  and  take  it  from  the  hot  water  and  put  it  to 
the  fire  instantly  ;  it  will  take  from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half  if 
large,  and  less  time  if  small. 

247. — ROAST  LEO  OF  MUTTON  BONED  AND  STUFFED. 

The  principal  skill  required  in  accomplishing  this  dish  is  the 
honing,  this  must  he  done  with  a  very  sharp  knife,  commence  on  the 
underside  of  the  joint,  passing  the  knife  under  the  skin  until  exactly 
over  the  hone,  then  cut  down  to  it,  pass  the  knife  round  close  to  the 
hone  right  up  to  the  socket,  then  remove  the  large  hone  of  the 
thickest  end  of  the  leg,  seeing  the  meat  is  clear  of  the  hone ;  you 
may  then  draw  out  the  remaining  hones  easily.  Put  in  the  ori&ce  a 
highly  seasoned  forcemeat,  fasten  the  knuckle  end  tightly  over,  replace 
the  hone  at  the  hase  of  the  joint,  and  sew  it  in ;  roast  it  in  a  cradle  qnt 
or  on  a  jack,  if  the  latter  let  the  knuckle  end  he  downwards  as  it  is 
less  likely  to  suffer  the  forcemeat  to  drop  out.  It  must  be  well 
basted,  and  should  be  sent  to  table  with  a  good  gravy. 


248. LEO   OF  MUTTON   BOILED 

Should  be  first  soaked  for  an  hour  and  a  half  in  salt  and  water, 
oare  being  taken  that  the  water  be  not  too  salt,  then  wiped  and 
boiled  in  a  floured  cloth,  the  time  necessary  for  boiling  will  depend 
upon  the  weight ;  two  hours  or  two  hours  and  a  half  should  be  about 
the  time,  it  should  be  served  with  turnips  mashed,  potatoes,  greens, 
and  caper  sauce,  or  brown  cucimiber,  or  oyster  sauce. 

249. — LEO    OF  MUTTON   BRAISED. 

Procure  a  leg  of  Welsh  mutton  or  Scotch,  they  are  small,  of  diotco 
flavour,  and  best  fitted  for  braising,  take  off  the  knuckle  neatly, 
divide  it  into  two  or  three  pieces,  trim  the  leg  of  all  the  superfluous 
edges,  and  then  half  roast  it,  place  it  with  the  broken  knuckle  into  a 
stewpan,  add  the  trimmings  with  half  a  dozen  slices  of  rich  fat  bacon, 
thyme,  knotted  marjoram,  and  other  sweet  herbs,  an  onion  stuck  with 
cloves,  and  about  half  an  ounce  of  butter  rolled  in  flour;  stew  the  whole 
gently,  sliaking  it  occasionally  and  turn  it  while  stewing  ;  when  it  is 
tender  take  it  up,  skim  the  gr&yj,  strain,  boil  it  fast  until  reduced  to 
a  glaze,  make  a  pur^e  or  soup  of  vegetables  and  place  the  mutton 
upon  it,  cover  the  mutton  with  the  glaze,  and  serve. 


250. — TO  SEND  A  LEO  OF  MUTTON  NEATLY  TO  TABLE  WHICH  HAS 

BEEN  CUT  FOR  A  PREVIOUS  MEAL. 

Too  much  must  not  have  been  cut  from  the  joint  or  it  will 
not  answer  the  purpose.  Bone  it,  cut  the  meat  as  a  fillet,  lay 
forcemeat  inside,  roll  it,  and  lay  it  in  a  stewpan  with  sufficient  water 
to  cover  it ;  add  various  kinds  of  vegetables,  onions,  turnips,  carrots, 
parsley,  &c.,  in  small  quantities ;  stew  two  hours,  thicken  the  gravy, 
berve  the  fillets  with  tlie  vegetables  round  it. 


MUTTON.  99 


251. — ^SHOULDER  OF  MTJTTON 

Most  be  well  roasted  and  sent  to  table  with  skin  a  nice  brown, 
k  IB  ^erred  with  onion  sauce.  This  is  the  plainest  flEiEhion,  and  for 
small  families  the  best. 


252. LOIN   OF  MUTTON   STEWED. 

Remove  the  skin,  bone  it,  and  then  roll  it,  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with 
a  pint  and  a  half  of  water,  two  dessert-spoonfuls  of  pyroligneous  acid, 
a  piece  of  butter,  sweet  herbs,  and  an  onion  or  two ;  when  it  has 
stewed  nearly  four  hours  strain  the  gravy,  add  two  spoonfuls  of  red 
wina,  hot  up  and  serve  with  jelly  sauce. 


253. BREAST   OF   MCTTON 

May  be  stewed  in  gravy  until  tender,  bone  it,  score  it,  season  well 
whh  cayenne,  black  pepper,  aud  salt,  boil  it,  and  while  cooking  skim 
the  fet  from  the  gravy  in  which  it  has  been  stewed,  slice  a  few 
gherkins,  and  add  with  a  desert  spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup ;  boil 
ity  and  pour  over  the  mutton  when  dished. 


254. — BREAST   OF   MTJTTON   CRUMBED   OR   GRATIN. 

If  one  breast  of  mutton,  cut  off  the  chine  bone  down  to  the  gristle, 
if  you  have  a  stock- pot  on  put  the  breast  of  mutton  into  it,  let  it 
W>fl  ontil  tender,  then  take  it  up  to  cool ;  have  ready  as  for  the 
cmmbed  cutlets,  adding  in  tlie  butter  and  egg  a  little  chopped 
modiTOom ;  put  it  all  over  it  with  a  paste  brush,  then  put  it  on  a 
dish  and  put  it  in  the  oven  to  brown,  the  sauce  will  be  under  it 
when  dialed. 


255. NECK   OF  MUTTON. 

Una  dish  is  most  useful  for  broth,  but  may  be  made  a  pleasant 
dish  bj  judidous  cooking.  To  send  it  to  table  merely  boiled  or  baked 
is  to  diflgust  the  partaker  of  it.  When  it  is  cooked  as  a  single  dish,' 
fintloii  it  slowly  until  nearly  done,  then  having  moistened  a  quantity 
of  "bread  crumbs  and  sweet  herbs,  chopped  very  fine,  with  the  yolk  ot 
an  egg,  let  the  mutton  be  covered  with  it,  and  placed  in  a  Dutch  or 
American  oven  before  the  fire,  and  ser\ed  when  nicely  browned.  Tlie 
breast  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner,  or  the 


256. — STFJIKS  FROM  A  LOIN  OF  MUTTON 

Are  done  in  the  same  way,  only  trimming  some  of  the  fat  off,  nnd 
cat  thick  and  stew  instead  of  filing  them. 


257. — MUTTON   STEAKS. 

The  steaks  are  cut  from  the  thick  or  fillet  end  of  a  leg  of  mutton, 
and  dBeeeed  as  rump  steaks. 

n  2 


100  MUTTON. 


258. — MUTTON   CHOPS   BROILED. 

Cut  from  the  best  end  of  the  loin,  trim  them  nicelj,  remoTing  ht 
or  skin,  leaving  onlj  enough  of  the  former  to  make  them  palati^le; 
let  the  fire  be  very  clear  before  placing  the  chops  on  the  gridixon, 
turn  them  frequently,  taking  care  that  the  fork  is  not  put  into  tho 
lean  part  of  the  chop ;  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  spread  a 
litUe  fresh  butter  over  each  chop  when  nearly  done,  and  send  them 
to  table  upon  very  hot  plates. 

259. — MUTTON   CHOPS   FBIED. 

The  fat  in  which  the  chops  are  to  be  friied  should  be  boiling  ^hen 
the  chops  are  put  into  it.  They  should  be  pared  of  fat  and  well 
trimmed  before  cooking,  they  should  be  turned  frequently,  and  when 
nicely  browned  they  will  be  done ;  of  course  if  they  are  very  thick 
judgment  must  be  exercised  respecting  the  length  of  time  they  will 
occupy  in  cooking. 

■  m 

260.-— CHOPS  AS  BEEF  STEAKS. 

Cut  thick  from  a  leg  of  mutton,  and  rub  each  steak  with  a  sbalot ; 
broil  over  a  quick  fire ;  rub  your  dish  with  shalot ;  when  on  the  dish 
pepper  and  salt  it ;  send  it  up  quite  hot. 


261. MUTTON  'cutlets. 

Loin  chops  make  ,the  best  cutlets.  Take  off  the  vertebm  or 
thickest  end  of  each  bone  and  about  an  inch  off  the  top  of  the  bone ; 
put  the  chops  into  a  stewpan  in  which  has  been  previously  melted  a 
little  butter  seasoned  with  salt ;  stew  for  a  short  time,  but  not  until 
they  are  brown,  as  that  appearance  is  accomplished  in  another 
manner.  Chop  some  parsley  very  fine,  add  a  little  thyme,  mix  it 
with  sufficient  yolk  of  egg  to  coat  tlie  chops,  which  will  have  been 
suffered  to  cool  before  this  addition  to  them;  tlien  powder  them  with 
bread  crumbs  over  which  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper  has  been 
sprinkled ;  broil  them  upon  a  gridiron  over  a  clear  but  not  a  brisk 
fire,  when  they  are  brown  dish  them ;  lemon  juice  may  be  squeezed 
over  them,  or  the  dish  in  which  they  are  served  may  be  garnished 
with  thin  slices  of  lemon  in  halves  and  quarters. 


262. — mutton  cutlets. — another  way. 

Not  a  very  fat  neck,  take  off  the  scrag  and  the  breast  bones,  leaving 
the  remainder  the  length  you  intend  the  cutlets,  then  take  the  chine 
bone  clean  off,  then  the  skin  and  some  of  the  fat;  you  will  now  have 
the  mutton  free  from  bones  to  cut  your  cutlets,  you  will  find  you  can 
cut  fourteen  good  cutlets  from  this  trimmed  neck  without  any  hack- 
ing ;  beat  each  cutlet  with  your  beater,  trim  them  neatly,  be  sure  to 
cut  out  the  pacwax,  and  leave  a  little  fat  to  each  cutlet.  If  for 
gratin  or  bread  crumbed,  prepare  some  chopped  parsley  and 
shalot,  and  bread  crumbs,  pat  some  butter  to  melt  in  a  stewpan,  a  little. 


MUTTON.  101 


of  the  parsley  and  shalot  and  some  yolk  of  egg,  mix  it  well  up 

2 [ether;  put  your  bread  crambs  on  a  sheet  of  paper,  add  to  it  a  little 
t  and  pepper ;  dip  each  catlet  into  melted  butter,  put  down  the 
bread  crumlts  with  your  knife,  lay  them  on  a  buttered  saut6-pau  until 
wanted  to  fiy. 

263.— CUTLETS   SAUTE. 

Cut  your  neck  of  mutton  precisely  as  for  the  crumbed  cutlets, 
have  ready  a  piece  of  butter  melted  in  your  saute-pan,  dip  each 
Ctitlet  both  sides  in  the  butter;  when  required  fry  tliem  a  very  light 
colour,  pepper  and  salt  them,  when  done  take  them  up  to  drain  from 
the  fat,  have  some  good  glaze  melted,  and  glaze  each  cutlet  botli  sides, 
dish  them  round  with  or  without  a  rim  of  mashed  potato. 


264. CUTLETS  IN  BUTTER. 

Trim  them  as  for  former  cutlets  very  neatly ;  dip  each  cutlet  in 
butter  and  fry  them ;  dish  them  upon  a  napkin  with  fried  parsley;  this 
you  may  do  witli  a  previously  dressed  neck  of  mutton. 


265. MUTTON  CUTLETS MAINTENON. 

Trim  the  cutlets  as  for  former  cutlets,  half  fry  them,  then  cover 
them  with  tine  herbs  and  bread  crumbs,  and  season  mth  pepper  and 
salt.  Lay  all  to  cool ;  have  some  fresh  parsley  to  add  to  the  already 
fried  herbs  and  shalot  When  cool,  spread  the  butter  and  herbs 
thick  upon  each  cutlet ;  sprinkle  them  with  bread  cmmbs ;  wrap 
them  in  battered  foolscap  paper,  and  broil  them  over  a  slow  fire 
until  done. 


266. BRAISED    CUTLETS. 

Trim  your  mutton  from  the  bones  as  before,  tlicn  put  it  whole  into 
a  good  braise,  let  it  stew  gently  until  tender,  put  it  aside  to  get 
odU ;  when  so,  cut  your  cutlets  as  thick  as  the  former,  trim  them 
neatly,  make  them  hot  and  glaze  them. 


267. FILLET   OF  MUTTON. 

Choose  a  very  large  leg,  cut  from  four  to  five  inches  in  thickness 
from  the  large  end  of  the  leg,  take  out  the  bone,  and  in  its  place  put 
a  highly  savoury  forcemeat,  Hour  and  roast  it  for  two  hom^  it  will  be 
done ;  it  may.be  sent  to  table  with  the  same  accompaniments  as  a 
fillet  of  veaJ,  with  melted  butter  poured  over  it,  or  a  rich  brovni 
graty  and  red  currant  jelly. 

268. FILLET  OF  MUTTON  STEWED. 

Cut  and  prepare  stuff  as  above,  flour  and  brown  in  a  little  butter, 
and  pat  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  gravy ;  with  it  a 
flBMU  -htnidle  of  sweet  herbs,  two  or  three  small  onions,  or  eight  or 


102  MUTTON. 


,tea  SDiall  button  onions  peeled,  a  tea-spoonful  of  whole  black  peppers 
tdeii  slowly  three  hooiB  and  a  half,  'ilie  fillet  maj  be  salted^  and 
being  half  roasted  may  be  stewed  with  its  trimini&gs. 

269. — FILLETS   JN   MARINADE. 

Out  from  the  loins  of  mutton ;  prepare  some  carrots,  turnips, 
onions,  and  celery,  thyme,  mace,  cloves,  and  whole  pepper,  cut  up  in 
thin  slices ;  boil  a  little  vinegar  and  water,  put  your  fillets  in  a  deep 
dish,  pour  the  vinegar  over  the  roots  and  mutton  when  cold,  let  it  laj 
aU  night;  next  day  trim  neatly  and  braise  them,  take  them  oat*  and 
when  required  glaze  them,  sauce  under  them. 

270. — BLANQUEITE   DE  MOUTON 

Is  generally  made  from  a  former  day  s  saddle  of  mutton ;  cutting  out 
the  fillets,  trimming  it  neatly,  you  will  be  able  to  cut  clearly  pieces 
the  size  of  a  shilling,  which  you  will  put  into  some  good  cooley 
sauce,  you  may  put  two  or  three  gherkins  then  into  it;  this  is  dished 
better  in  a  tin. 


271. — HARICOT  MUTTON. 

In  this  dish  proceed  as  before  in  removing  the  bones,  but  leave 
more  fat  on  and  cut  each  cutlet  much  thicker;  fry  them  over  a  quick 
fire  to  brown,  twelve  will  make  this  dish ;  put  them  into  a  proper 
«iaed  stewpan  with  a  little  good  second  stock,  pepper  and  salt,  a 
little  piece  of  sugar,  cover  it  over  and  stew  gently  over  a  slow  fire, 
^en  tender  strain  off  sufficient  stock  for  the  sauce,  for  wiiioh  roots 
wiU  be  previously  prepared,  you  will  see  among  the  sauces. 

272. — HARICOT   MUTTON. ANOTHER  WAY. 

Gut  into  chops  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of  mutton,  fiy  them 
a  light  brown,  in  fat  made  boiling  hot  before  the  chops  are  put 
into  it,  some  pieces  cut  from  the  neck  will  be  the  best,  dreoge 
them  with  flour,  sprinkle  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  put  in  a  stew- 
pan  three  parts  of  a  pint  of  water,  an  onion  stuck  with  clores,  pirsley, 
a  few  spring  onions,  and  a  bay  leaf,  stew  gently  till  the  meat  is  nearly 
done,  then  add  turnips  and  carrots  cut  small,  fry  a  large  onion  cut  in 
slices  brown,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  whicii  when  just  done  must  be 
thickened,  take  out  the  sweet  herbs  when  the  whole  has  stewed  an 
hour,  and  serve. 


273. — HASH 

Is  made  from  former  dressed  mutton,  leg  or  saddle,  cut  in  nice  <i%ty 
shaped  pieces,  and  put  into  some  good  brown  sauce. 


274. — HASHED  MUTTON. 

Cut  the  cold  mutton  into  slices  as  uniform  in  size  as  possible^  floor 
hem,  pepper  and  salt  them,  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  aoBie 


MUTTOy.  10.1 


gravy  made  of  an  ouion  stewed  with  whole  pepper  and  toasted  bread 
in  a  pint  of  water,  to  which  a  little  walnut  ketchup  has  been  added— 
this  gravy  should  be  stewed  two  hours  before  using — do  not  let  the 
hash  boil,  when  it  is  done  add  a  little  thickening  of  butter,  flour  and 
water  if  required,  and  serve  up  with  sippets  of  toasted  bread. 

276. — HASHED   MUTTON. 

This  is  a  favourite  method  of  disposing  of  the  cold  shoulder, 
eBpecially  if  it  should  happen  to  be  underdone ;  cut  it  into  slices, 
taKe  the  bones  (if  of  a  shoulder  or  leg  break  them),  and  put  them  in 
a  stewpan  with  the  trimmings,  cover  them  with  water,  put  in  a  faggot 
of  thyme,  parsley,  whole  pepper,  allspice,  &c.,  cover  down  and  simmer 
for  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  while  the  bones,  &c.  are  stewing,  fry 
an  onion  brown  in  a  little  butter  and  flour,  put  it  iuto  the  stewpan 
with  the  gravy,  stew  gently  twenty  minutes,  strain  it,  lay  in  the 
slices  of  mutton  in  the  stewpan,  pour  over  them  the  strained  gravy, 
pour  in  a  spoonful  of  walnut  ketchup  or  any  suitable  preferred  sauce, 
season  it,  simmer  until  the  meat  is  hot  through,  dish  and  ser\'e. 

A  spoonful  of  cuny  powder  is  sometimes  added,  and  is  always  a 
palatable  addition. 

276. — IRISH   STEW. 

Cut  a  neck  of  mutton  as  for  the  haricot;  blanch  the  chops  in 
water,  take  and  put  them  into  another  stewpan  with  four  onions  cut 
in  slices,  put  to  it  a  little  of  your  second  stock,  let  it  boil  a  quarter 
of  an  hour;  have  ready  some  potatoes  pared,  put  them  into  the  stew- 
pan with  the  mutton,  with  salt  and  pepper;  as  some  like  the  potatoes 
whole  and  some  mashed  as  to  thicken  the  stew,  you  must  boil  them 
accordingly,  dish  the  meat  round  and  the  vegetables  in  the  middle. 


277. CHINA  CHFLO. 

Mince  a  pint  basin  of  undressed  neck  of  mutton  or  leg,  and  some 
of  the  fat :  put  two  onions,  a  lettuce,  a  pint  of  green  peas,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  four  spoonfuls  of  water,  and  two  or  three  ounces 
of  clarified  butter  into  a  stewpan  closely  covered  ;  simmer  two  hours, 
snd  serve  in  the  middle  of  a  dish  of  boiled  rice;  if  cayenne  is 
spproved,  add  a  little. 

278. — CHINA   CIIILO. — ANOTHER  WAY. 

Chop  very  fine  two  small  young  lettuces,  two  onions,  a  pint  of 
green  peas,  and  a  couple  of  young  cucumbers,  or  the  fourth  of  a  pint 
of  mushrooms,  season  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  and  half  a  tea- 
qioonfttl  of  pepper ;  mince  the  meat  of  a  neck  of  mutttm  uncooked, 
sod  mix  it  with  the  vegetables  in  a  stewpan,  add  four  table-spoonfuls 
of  water  and  two  ounces  of  butter,  clarified  will  be  proved  the  best ; 
let  them  well  amalgamate  over  a  slow  fire,  keep  them  stirred  for 
fifteen  minutes,  then  cover  down  close  and  simmer  very  slowly  for  two 
ktois,  serve  it  in  the  centre  of  boiled  rice. 


104  MUTTON, 


279.— MUTTON   KEBOBBAD. 

Procure  as  lean  a  loin  of  mutton  as  you  can,  remove  the  fat  and 
skin,  joint  it  well,  chop  some  parsley  with  some  sweet  herbs  very  fine, 
and  beat  it  up  with  me  yolk  of  an  egg,  add  bread  crumbs,  cut  the 
loin  into  chops,  and  spread  the  bread  crumbs  and  sweet  herbs,  &c, 
well  over  each  chop,  put  each  chop  in  its  former  place,  and  tie  with 
tape  so  that  the  joint  appears  whole  again,  roast  it  before  a  quick  fire, 
baste  it  with  fresh  butter  and  its  own  gravy  ;  when  it  is  done  pour 
into  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served  some  rich  brown  gravy  veiy 
hot,  lay  in  the  mutton,  pour  gravy  over  it  and  send  it  to  table  as  hot 
as  possible.     Slices  of  beef  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner. 


280. — RISSOLES 

Are  from  the  most  tender  part  of  dressed  mutton,  finee  from  skin 
and  gristle  chopped  very  fine.  You  will  find  rissoles  in  another  place 
in  the  book. 


281. — MUTTON    LIKE   VENISON. 

A  haunch  or  leg  will  be  the  most  applicable.  The  joint  should  be 
huug  as  long  as  it  can  be  with  safety,  and  dressed  exactly  like  a. 
haunch  of  venison,  and  served  with  the  same  sauces,  but  to  make  tho 
taste  more  perfectly  resemble  that  of  venison  it  should,  after  having 
been  hung  to  the  turn,  be  skmued,  and  laid  in  a  pan  with  vinegar  and 
water;  two  parts  of  the  former  to  one  of  the  latter,  not  enough  to  cover 
it ;  put  in  a  faggot  of  herbs,  a  clove  of  garlic,  one  or  two  bay  leaves, 
a  spoonful  of  whole  pepper,  and  a  couple  of  onions  cut  in  slices ;  let 
it  soak  three  days,  dry  it  well,  hang  it  for  a  day  and  roast  as  venison. 
It  may  also  be  put  into  a  stewpan  with  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  and 
simmered  four  hours,  serve  with  venison  sauce. 


282. TO  MAKE  A  SCOTCH  HAGGIS. 

Take  the  stomach  of  a  sheep.  The  washing  and  cleaning  is  of  more 
consequence  than  all,  as  it  will  be  a  bad  colour  and  a  bad  taste  if  not 
well  cleansed ;  when  clean,  turn  it  inside  out,  then  let  it  lie  for  a  day  or 
two  in  salt  and  water.  Blanch  the  liver,  lights,  and  heart  of  the  sheep, 
lay  them  in  cold  water,  chop  all  very  fine,  the  liver  you  had  better 
grate,  chop  a  pound  of  the  suet  very  fine,  dry  in  the  oven  a  pound  of 
oatmeal ;  mix  all  this  well  together,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  a 
little  chopped  parsley,  and  a  little  chopped  onion ;  "then  sew  up  the 
bag ;  before  you  finish  sewing  it,  add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  good  white 
stock ;  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  a  drainer ;  boil  it  in  water,  keeping 
it  well  covered  all  the  time,  prick  it  all  over  with  a  small  larding 
pin  to  keep  it  from  bursting ;  it  will  take  several  hours  to  boil ;  be 
careful  in  taking  it  up,  and  let  your  dish  be  large  enough. 


283. — ROONON  DE  MOUTON  A  LA  FRAN^AISB. 

The  French  have  a  fousulty  of  making  a  dish  recherche  out  of  mere. 


MUTTON.  Ito 


trifles,  their  receipt  for  serving  up  this  little  dish  is  no  mean  evidence 
of  their  peculiar  skill.  Take  half  a  dozen  fine  mutton  kidneys,  clear 
them  of  fat  and  skin,  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices ;  powder  them 
immediately  with  sweet  herbs  in  fine  powder,  parsley  which  has  been 
chopped,  dned,  and  powdered,  cayenne,  and  salt ;  put  into  a  stewpan 
two  ounces  of  clarified  butter  or  fresh  if  the  former  is  not  in  reach, 
put  in  the  slices  of  kidney,  fry  them,  they  will  brown  very  quickly, 
they  must  be  done  on  both  sides,  dredge  flour  over  them,  moisten 
with  lemon  juice,  in  five  minutes  the  kidneys  will  be  done  ;  lift  them 
out  into  a  very  hot  dish  around  which  are  kid  sippets  fiied ;  pour 
into  the  gravy  two  glasses  of  champaigue,  give  it  a  boil,  i)our  it  over 
the  kidneys,  and  serve. 

It  may  here  be  stated  that  the  French  cooks  vary  constantly  the 
lierbs  which  they  employ  acxiording  to  any  known  preference  for  the 
palate  of  those  for  whom  they  cook.  Various  kinds  of  wines  and 
sauces  may  be  used  for  flavouring,  and  this  is  constantly  done  as 
much  for  variety  and  the  ability  of  giving  a  new  name  to  a  dish, 
^hich  is  varied  only  in  some  such  small  featiu-e. 


St84. — ROGNON  DE  MOUTON  A  LA  BOURGEOISIE. 

Clear  the  kidneys  from  fat  and  skin,  cut  them  into  thin  slices, 
dredge  them  with  flour  and  fry  crisp,  pepper  and  salt  them ;  flavour 
Some  gravy  with  a  little  eschalot  or  garlic  and  scne. 


285. — LOIN  OP  MUITON  UKE  VENISON. — FRENCH  RECEIPT. 

Remove  the  skin  from  the  joint  and  bone  it,  and  do  it  neatly ;  lay 
it  in 'a  stewpan  with  about  a  pint  of  weak  broth,  an  onion  stuck  with 
cloves,  two  glasses  of  red  wine,  and  a  tea  spoonful  of  pyroligneous 
acid ;  let  it  lK)il,  put  in  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs ;  stew,  turning 
frequently ;  add  as  it  progresses  a  little  gravy,  some  very  good  may 
be  made  from  the  bones ;  it  will  take  from  two  horn's  and  a  half  to 
three  hours. 


286. TO  DRESS  MUTTON  HAMS. 

Soak  the  ham  for  five  or  si.\  hours  in  cold  spring  v^ter  unless  it 
has  only  recently  been  cured,  then  one  hour  will  suflSce ;  put  it  into 
oold  water,  boil  gently ;  it  will  be  done  in  two  hours  and  a  half.  It 
IS  eaten  cold. 


287. MUTTON   KIDNEYS   BROILED. 

Skin  and  split  without  parting  asunder,  skewer  them  through  the 

^y^ter  edge  and  keep  them  flat,  lay  the  opened  sides  first  to  the  fire, 

^"bich  should  be  clear  and  brisk,  in  four  minutes  turn  them,  sprinkle 

'^th  salt  and  cayenne,  and  when  done,  which  will  be  in  tbrce  minutes 

sft^rwards,  take  them  from  the  fire,  put  a  piece  of  butter  inside  them, 

*tM2e  some  lemon  juice  over  them,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 


106  iniTTOM. 


d88.— shkbp'b  tonoubs  siewbd. 

Put  them  into  cold  water  and  let  them  boil,  when  they  are  suffi- 
cientlj  tender  to  remove  the  skin  easily,  take  them  out,  split  them, 
and  lay  them  in  a  stewpau  with  enough  good  gravy  to  cover  thenu 
Chop  parsley,  and  musnroom,  with  a  little  eschalot  finely,  work  a 
lump  of  butter  with  it,  add  pepper  and  salt  to  flavour ;  stew  them  in 
the  gravy  until  the  tongues  are  tender,  lay  them  in  a  dish,  strain  the 
gravy  axid  pour  it  hot  over  the  tongues,  serve. 


280. — IRISH  8TEW. 

Take  two  or  three  pounds  of  the  neck  of  mutton,  cut  it  into  chope, 
pare  three  pounds  of  potatoes,  cut  them  into  thick  slices,  put  them 
mto  a  stewpan  with  a  quart  of  water,  two  or  three  carrots,  turnips 
or  onions  may  be  added,  the  last  are  seldom  omitted,  salt  and  pepper 
the  mutton  when  added  to  the  gravy,  let  it  boil  or  simmer  gently 
two  hours,  and  serve  very  hot ;  its  excellence  much  depends  on  th^ 
last  instructions  being  fulfilled. 


107 


CHAPTER  VI. 


House  lamb  is  in  season  in  December  ;  grass  lamb  comes  in  with 
l^tster.  Both  are  faTourite  dishes,  a  preference  perhaps  existing  for 
Qie  former.     Thej  are  dressed  much  in  the  same  manner. 

290. — FOBE-QUARTEB  OF  ULITB. 

This  is  the  favourite  and  indeed  the  best  joint  Do  not  put  it  too 
:^ear  the  ^e  at  first,  when  it  gets  heated  baste  it  well ;  the  fire 
felioiild  be  quick,  clear,  but  not  fierce ;  the  usual  weight  of  a  fore- 
Quarter  is  between  nine  and  eleven  pounds,  it  vdll  take  two  hours ; 
ivhen  it  is  done  separate  the  shoulder  from  the  ribs,  but  before  it  is 
J^nite  taken  off  lay  under  a  large  lump  of  butter,  squeeze  a  lemon« 
Uid  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  let  it  remain  long  enough  to  quite 
cuelt  the  butter,  then  remove  the  shoulder  and  lay  it  on  another 
lisk. 


291. — SADDLE   OF   LAMB. 

Tins  joint  is  now  seen  nearly  as  frequently  at  table  as  the  fore- 
(^oarter,  and  if  well  cooked  is  certainly  fine  eating.  Boost  it  qui:;kly, 
bat  be  very  careful  neither  to  scorch  it  nor  to  take  it  from  tbe  fire 
Until  it  is  done ;  baste  with  the  fat  and  gravy  which  fall  from  it,  and 
in  an  hour  and  three  quarters  it  will  be  done,  unless  larger  than 
common,  and  then  it  will  take  two  hours;  serve  with  mint  and 
encumber  sauce. 


292. — LAMB. — ^TO  BOAST  A  LEO  OF  LAMa 

The  rules  laid  down  for  roasting  mutton  must  be  scrupulously 
observed  with  respect  to  lamb ;  let  it  roast  gradually,  and  commence 
&  distance  finom  the  fire,  a  leg  of  five  pounds  vrill  take  an  hour  and  a 
9L^iarter,  one  of  six  pounds  will  take  an  hour  and  a  half. 

293. — TO  BOIL  A  LEG  OF  LAMB. 

Put  it  in  sufficient  clear  cold  soft  water  to  cover  it,  let  it  remain 
"^^If  an  hour,  a  table-spoonful  of  vinegar  or  half  a  handful  of  salt 
2^y  be  thrown  in ;  put  it  into  a  thin  white  cloth  which  lias  been 
^*^^UBd,  and  hoi  it  in  enough  water  to  cover  it,  a  good  sized  bundle  of 
*^*«ei  herbs  may  be  thrown  into  the  saucepan ;  if  six  pounds  it  will 


108  LAMB. 

be  done  iu  an  hour  and  a  half,  serve  with  spinach  or  French  beans ; 
if  sent  to  table  cold  lay  handsome  sprigs  of  parsley  about  it  tastefollj ; 
it  may,  while  hot,  be  garnished  with  parsley,  with  thin  slices  of  lemon 
laid  round  the  dish. 


294.  —  LEO    OF    LAMn. 

Take  out  the  bone  as  in  receipt  No.  247,  and  a  small  portion  of 
he  meat,  so  us  to  tuimit  of  more  forcemeat;  keep  it  of  a  good  shi^ ; 
put  a  ruffle  on  the  knuckle,  and  glaze  it  well. 


295. ^A  SHOULDER  OF  LAMB 

WDl  be  found  best  cooked  when  done  with  the  fore-quarter,  bat  if 
roasted  singly  will  take  an  hour. 


296. — SHOULDER  OF  LAMD  LARDED. 

Cut  your  lardons  small,  of  fine  white  fat  bacon,  cover  them  widi 
pounded  mixed  spices,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt ;  bone  the  shoulder 
of  lamb,  lard  the  under  side,  roll  the  joint,  and  bind  it  with  narrolr 
white  tape ;  braise  it,  and  when  done  glaze  it.  Serve  it  on  modi- 
room  sauce ;  any  sauce  applicable  to  lamb  will  serve  except  mint- 
sauce,  which  should  not  be  eaten  with  this  dish. 


297. — TO  GRILL  A  LOIN  OF  LAMB. 

Boil  half  an  hour,  take  it  out  and  score  it  like  pork,  brush  it  all 
over  with  well  beaten  yolk  of  eggs,  and  powder  over  it  bread  crumbs 
mixed  with  minced  parsley,  put  it  into  an  American  oven  and  roost 
it  until  brown ;  serve  with  melted  butter  and  lemon  pickle  or 
tomato  sauce,  the  last  especially,  if  cold.  A  shoulder  and  breast 
may  be  dressed  in  the  same  manner. 


298. — SHOULDER  OF  LAMB  FORCED  AND  BRAISED. 

Take  out  the  bone  from  the  shoulder,  you  must  be  very  particular 
and  careful  in  removing  the  blade  bone  that  you  do  not  cut  a  hole 
through  the  skin ;  when  you  have  done  it  fill  up  the  vacancy  ¥Fith 
some  good  veal  forcemeat,  cover  it  with  fat  l»acon  or  ham ;  then  pot 
it  into  a  good  braise  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  about  an  hour,  when 
required  glaze  it  well ;  you  can  make  it  after  you  have  put  in  the 
forcemeat  and  sewed  up  the  cut  part,  either  as  a  shoulder  of  lamb  or 
form  into  a  swan  by  adding  the  shank  bone  for  a  neck,  and  form  the 
beak  or  bill  with  paste ;  if  plain  put  a  paper  rufHe  or  ornamented 
silver  skewer,  the  sauce  as  may  be  approved  of,  as  peas,  or  spinach, 
or  puree,  turnips,  or  French  beans,  or  truffles,  or  mushrooms. 


299. — STEWED    LOIN    OF   LAMB. 

The  loin  may  be  stewed  whole  or  in  steaks ;  in  the  former  the  flap 
being  secured  by  a  skewer,  is  put  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  quarter  of 


ULMB.  109 

«  poond  of  batter,  and  covered  down  close ;  let  it  simmer  one  hour, 
then  tarn  it,  let  it  simmer  again  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  and  then 
hare  ready  some  rich  brown  gravy  hot,  lift  out  the  meat,  pour  the 
gravy  over  it,  and  send  it  to  table  with  mint  sauce,  a  lettuce,  aud  a 
few  radishes  and  spring  onions. 


300. — TO  STEW  A  BBEAST  OF  LAMB. 

Cot  it  into  pieces,  pepper  and  salt  well,  stew  in  sufficient  gravy  to 
cover  the  meat  until  tender,  then  thicken  the  sauce,  pour  in  a  glass 
of  sherry;  serve  on  a  dish  of  stewed  mushrooms. 


30 1 .— CHEVAUX-DE-FRISE    LAMB. 

Get  two  necks  of  lamb  from  the  same  lamb,  take  off  the  chine 
bone  not  leaving  a  particle  of  bone  adhering  to  the  ribs,  or  it  cannot 
be  carved  clean  down  between  the  bones  when  at  table ;  blanch  them 
a  few  minutes,  put  them  to  cool,  then  scrape  about  one  inch  down 
from  the  ends  of  the  ribs  between  each  bone,  the  skin,  and  fat ;  then 
pot  the  bones  to  meet  regularly,  and  put  one  between  the  other  which 
wiU  form  a  chevaux-de-frise ;  braise  them  the  same  as  the  former; 
nhen  done  glaze  the  fat  and  meat  but  not  the  white  rib  bones,  any 
of  the  sauces  named  or  cucumbers. 


30a.^-CHEVAUX-DE-FR18E   WITH    LAMB   SWEETBREADS. 

Do  the  same  as  before ;  when  it  is  done  and  glazed  have  ready 
some  good  lamb  sweetbreads,  about  six  larded  ones  and  glazed,  put 
them  on  the  top  between  the  bones,  when  the  two  necks  are  put 
together. 

303. BLAXQUETTE   d'AGNEAU    A    LA    PROVEN^'ALE. 

Of  the  best  end  of  the  brisket  take  two  or  three  pounds,  cut  it 
into  dice  of  four  inches,  rince  them  in  clear  water,  wipe  them  with 
a  cloth,  and  flour  them ;  take  two  ounces  of  the  fat  of  boiled  bacon, 
fire  of  fresh  butter,  chop  some  parsley,  and  boil  ten  minutes ;  put  in 
the  lamb  dice,  cut  up  an  onion  small,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  let  it  simmer  gradually  for 
two  hours,  beat  up  the  yolk  of  three  eggs,  and  add  them  to  the 
gravy ;  keep  the  pan  moving  above  the  fire  for  three  minutes,  dish 
and  aene* 


304. — LAMB   CHOPS. 

Lamb  chops  and  lamb  cutlets  are  cooked  in  the  same  manner  as 
mntton  chops  and  cutlets,  but  require  more  care  in  the  cooking ; 
they  are  sent  to  table  with  various  garnishes,  and  arranged  in  many 
fnmB,  frequently  accompanied  with  a  puree  of  vegetables,  or  ranged 
nmnd  a  pyramid  of  mashed  potatoes ;  the  most  simple  manner  is  to 
gunish  with  crisped  parsley. 


110  LAKB. 


305.— -«W£BTBREADS 


Should  be  soaked  in  water,  put  for  eight  or  ten  minutes  in  boiling 
water,  and  then  into  clear  cold  spring  water,  to  blanch.  They  maj 
be  cut  in  slices,  or  in  dice,  and  put  into  fncasees  of  meat  or  ragoat8» 
or  they  may  be  served  as  a  separate  dish. 


306.-— 6WEETBREAJ>S. — ^ANOTHER  WAY. 

Two  good  throat  sweetbreads  or  three  will  make  an  entree;  blandi 
them  until  fit  to  eat,  take  them  up  and  lay  them  in  cold  water; 
when  cold  dry  them  well,  egg  and  bread  crumb  them  with  or  without 
herbs,  put  them  on  a  dish  and  brown  them  in  the  oven ;  mushroom 
sauce,  or  endives,  or  sorrel,  or  spinach,  or  tomato  will  do  if  approved  oU 


307.— SWBETBBEADS   FRICASEED. — ^WHITE. 

Blanch,  and  then  cut  them  in  slices.  To  a  pint  of  veal  giavjpat 
a  thickening  of  flour  and  butter,  a  table-spoonful  of  cream,  half  a 
tea-spoonful  of  mushroom  powder,  grated  lemon  peel  and  nutmeg* 
and  white  pepper,  to  flavour.  Stew  ten  minutes,  add  the  sweetbreads* 
let  them  simmer  twenty  minutes.  Dish,  add  salt,  thin  pieces  of 
lemon  peel ;  mix  up,  and  serve. 


308. — SWEETBREADS  FRICASEED. — ^BROWN. 

Gut  them  in  small  pieces,  flour,  and  fry  them.  When  a  good 
brovm  pour  over  them  a  pint  of  good  beef  gravy,  highly  seasoned; 
stew  gently,  until  the  sweetbreads  are  tender.  Add  auttle  flour  and 
butter  to  thickeu ;  add  truffles  and  mushroom  ketchup  to  flavour* 
morels  or  mushrooms  may  be  substitued,  or  all  may  be  cooked  with 
the  sweetbreads. 


300. — TO  STEW   SWEETBREADS. — RIS   DB   VEAU, 

Make  a  force-meat  of  the  tenderest  parts  of  boiled  or  roast  fowl, 
some  bacon,  a  little  parsley  chopped,  a  little  thyme,  lemon-peel,  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  cayenne  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Lay  the  sweet- 
breads in  a  pan,  upon  a  layer  of  slices  of  veal,  cover  them  with  slices 
of  baoon,  put  in  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion  sliced,  a  little 
mace,  and  pepper  and  salt  Pour  in  a  quart  of  good  broth,  and  stew 
for  two  hours,  remove  them,  and  reduce  by  boiling  the  broth  to  a 
fourth  :  heat  the  sweetbreads  in  it,  garnish  with  lemon  in  slices. 


310. — SWEETBREADS  LARDED. — A  LA  DAUBE. 

Blanch  and  lard  them  with  bacon,  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
pint  of  veal  broth  ;  add  a  little  browning,  with  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon.  Stew  until  tender ;  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour  and 
butter.  Lay  bunches  of  boiled  celery  round  the  dish  when  you 
serve. 


LAMB.  Ill 

811. ^HEABT  AKB  LAMB  SWEETBREADS  LARDED  WITH  BACON 

OR  TRUFFLES. 

The  same  quantity,  either  one  larded  and  two  plain,  or  two  if  fine 
larded  with  bacon;  when  blanched  for  two  or  three  minutos,  put  them 
in  a  small  dish  or  stewpan,  with  a  little  stock ;  cover  them  over  and  boil 
them  either  in  the  oven  or  over  the  fire  for  about  twenty  minutes ; 
take  them  up  and  glaze  them  several  times,  keeping  them  hot ;  lamb 
sweetbreads  will  take  eight  for  a  dish,  and  require  to  be  neatly 
trimmedy  cutting  away  the  pipe,  and  dish  them  on  a  rim  of  forcemeat 
or  mashed  potatoes,  or  spinach. 

812. — SWEETBREADS  AS  CUTLETS. 

If  yon  cannot  get  heart  sweetbreads,  yon  must  use  the  throat. 
Bfandi  them  for  sux>ut  ten  minutes,  then  put  them  to  cool  into  cold 
niter ;  take  them  out  and  dry  them  in  a  cloth,  then  cut  long  ways, 
twelve  or  fourteen  pieces  for  cutlets,  making  them  a  nice  shape ;  if 
yoa  wish  for  them  to  be  white  saute  cutlets,  you  must  put  some  butter 
or  lard  in  your  cutlet-pan,  a  juice  of  lemon,  a  little  white  pepper, 
and  salt;  do  not  colour  them,  take  them  up  and  lay  them  upon 
idnte  paper  to  soak  up  the  grease  from  them;  dish  them  round  upon 
a  tureen,  pouring  the  sauce  in  the  middle  of  them. 


313. SWEETBREADS  WITII  TRUFFLES. 

Blanch  and  trim  off  the  pipes  and  skin  from  the  under  part ;  then 
take  yoor  small  knife,  and  inake  a  small  incision  slanting  ways,  and 
lay  in  a  small  round  piece  of  truffle  until  the  sweetbread  is  covered ; 
bniae  them  for  a  short  time,  or  do  them  in  some  good  consomme, 
and  ^aze  them. 

814. ROAST  SWEETBREAD. 

Boil  sweetbreads,  either  heart  or  throat,  trim  them  and  dry  them, 
then  egg  and  bread  crumb  them,  brown  them  before  the  fire  or  in 
the  oven ;  put  good  clear  gravy  under  them,  and  water  cresses,  as  a 
gunish. 

315. SWEETBREAD  CUTLETS CRUMDKD  AU  GRATIN. 

Cut  the  sweetbreads  as  before  a  nice  thickness,  but  not  too  thick; 
bj  them,  then  egg  and  bread  crumb  them  as  you  would  veal  or 
other  cutlets ;  use  any  sauce  that  may  bo  preferred. 


316. SWEETBREAD  CUTT.ETS — Gf^ZED. 

Do   these  as  for   the  former  sautu  cutlets,  only  glaze  them   a 
kigfat  colour. 

317. — LAMB  8  HEAD   AND    KMINCKES. 

Wash  well  a  lamb's  head  and  pluck,  take  out  the  brains,  blanch 
Aem  by  themselves,  boil  the  head  and  pluck  for  about  a  quarter  of 


112  LAMB. 

an  hour,  take  it  up  to  cool,  take  out  the  tongue,  trim  the  two  halves 
of  the  head  neatly,  then  score  it,  then  egg  and  hread  crumh  them  as 
you  would  cutlets  and  hrowii  them  in  the  oven  or  before  the  fire.  Gut 
up  in  small  dice  in  equal  quantities  the  tongue,  liver,  heart,  and 
lights  ;  fry  in  a  stewpan  a  little  chopped  parsley,  shalot,  and 
mushroom  if  you  have  it,  to  a  nice  light  brown,  dry  up  the  butter 
with  flour,  use  some  good  second  stock  or  brown  sauce ;  season  with 
lemon,  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and  a  dust  of  sugar,  put  the  emincees 
under  the  head,  the  brains,  egg,  and  bread  crumb  in  four  pieces  and 
put  round. 

318. — SHEEP   OB   lambs'   TROTTEBS. 

Get  a  dozen  or  two  of  trotters,  stew  them  for  several  hours,  imtil 
all  the  bones  will  come  from  them,  save  this  liquor,  do  not  braak 
the  skin,  stuff  them  with  good  quenelles  or  forcemeat ;  return  them 
again  into  the  same  stock,  boil  them  about  fifteen  minutes,  ^axfr 
them ;  sobeise  sauce  or  tomato  sauce  is  good  with  them,  or  yoa  maj. 
fry  them  with  butter. 


■ 

1 


1 

i 


PORK. 


113 


♦  . 


CHAPTER  VII. 


POSK 

The  proportion  of  persons  who  are  fond  of  pork  to  those  who  dis- 
like it  are  as  a  hundred  to  one,  and  yet  it  is  falsely  considered  a 
vulgar  taste,  the  passion  for  it  possessed  hy  the  Chinese  lias  been 
iUostrated  by  many  tales,  and  when  in  season  the  freciucncy  of  its 
appearance  upon  a  homely  English  table  is  no  small  proof  of  the  esti- 
mation in  which  it  is  held;  it  is  like  veal — indigestible,  at  least 
chemists  consider  it  so,  though  some  medical  men  Imve  asserted  to 
the  contrar}',  it  should  at  least  be  thoroughly  cooked  to  place,  if 
possible,  its  digestibility  beyond  a  doubt.  In  roasting,  or  in  boiling, 
ample  time  should  be  allowed  for  the  joint.  Pork  is  always  salted 
for  boiling,  and  is  much  liked  in  this  form.  When  sent  to  table 
roasted,  apple  sauce  should  in  every  case  acconipiujy  it. 

As  pork  is  .so  universally  used  in  every  family,  mid  so  little  used 
for  comiiony,  it  is  useless  to  further  connnent  u[)ou  it. 

319. PORK. TO    KOAST    A    SICKING    PIG. 

A  sucking  pig  should  be  dressed  as  soon  after  being  killed  as 
practirable.  When  scalded  and  prepared  for  cooking,  lay  in  the  belly 
a  stufiing  of  bread,  sage,  and  onions,  pepper  and  salt,  with  a  piece 
of  butter,  sew  it  up,  rub  the  akin  of  the  pig  with  butter,  sk(;wer  the 
legs  back,  that  while  roasting,  the  inside  as  avcII  jls  outsiilc  of  the  pig 
m:iy  Ik?  thoroughly  browned  ;  it  must  be  put  to  a  qui(:k  (ire,  but  at 
such  a  distanc<;  as  to  roast  gradually,  and  a  coating  of  Hour  should  be 
dn^dged  over  it  that  it  may  not  blister,  or  it  should  not  be  left  a 
minute  ;  if  floured,  when  the  pig  is  done,  scrape  tlie  Hour  off  with  a 
wooden,  or  very  blunt  knife,  and  rub  it  with  a  l)utt(;red  cloth,  cut  off 
the  head,  and  dividing  it  take  out  the  brains,  mi.v  them  with  a  little 
gravy  or  bread  sauce,  divide  the  pig  in  half,  from  neck  to  tail,  and 
kv  each  inside  flat  upon  the  dish,  so  that  the  two  edg(is  of  the  back 
touch ;  place  each  half  of  the  head  with  the  outer  side  upj)ermost  at 
each  end  of  the  dish,  and  an  ear  on  each  side  ;  the  gmvy  should  bo 
poured  in  the  dish  hot,  and  the  whole  served  as  hot  as  possible ;  as 
1  matter  of  convenience  it  is  often  sent  to  th(^  baker's  oven,  a  largo 
piwe  of  butter  should  accompany  it  for  the  l)uk<r  to  baste  it  with,  and 
ttpjji  its  return  it  should  be  cut  and  served  as  above. 

The  gravy  may  be  heightened  in  its  flavour  by  various  additions,  or 
two  or  three  sauces  and  gravies  may  be  served  with  it,  such  as  veal  gravy 
thickened  and  flavoured  with  wine,  lemon  juice,  and  cayenne,  and  also 
Iffead  sauce  and  a  plain  gravy  ;  this  mny  be  a  matter  of  taste. 

J 


114  PORK. 

It  is  usual  to  procure  the  pig  from  the  dealer  ready  prepared  for 
cooking,  hut  in  the  event  of  its  heing  required  to  scald  it  after  killing, 
we  subjoin  the  following  receipt. 

320. — TO   SCALD    A   SUCKING    PIG. 

Plunge  the  pig  into  cold  water  the  instant  it  is  killed,  let  it  remain 
five  minutes,  have  ready  pounded  resin,  and  rub  well  with  it  over  the 
skin,  plunge  it  into  a  tub  of  scalding  water,  letting  it  remain  only 
half  a  minute,  remove  it,  and  immediately  take  off  the  hair,  lose  no 
time,  if  the  hair  should  not  come  freely  from  some  parts  rub  it  again 
with  resin,  and  put  it  into  the  scalding  water,  and  then  remove  the 
hair,  when  it  is  all  off  wash  it  well  with  warm  water,  and  then  in 
cold,  changing  the  water  several  times  that  no  flavour  of  the  redn 
may  be  retained ;  cut  off  the  feet  at  the  first  joint,  slit  down  the 
belly,  and  remove  the  entrails,  put  aside  the  heart,  liver,  and  liffhtB, 
with  the  feet,  wash  again  inside  and  out  the  pig,  diy  it  well,  and  keep 
it  from  the  air  by  covering  it  with  a  cloth. 

321. ^ROAST  PIG. 

Soak  in  milk  some  light  bread,  boil  some  sage  and  oniont  in 
plenty  of  water,  strain  it  off  and  chop  it  all  very  fine,  press  the  milk 
from  the  bread,  and  then  mix  the  sage  and  onion  with  pepper  and 
salt,  in  the  bread  put  the  yolk  of  an  egg  to  bind  it  a  little,  pat  this  in 
the  inside  of  the  pig,  rub  the  pig  over  with  milk  and  butter,  paper  it, 
roast  it  a  beautiful  brown,  cut  off  the  head  before  it  is  drawn  from 
the  spit,  and  likewise  cut  it  down  the  back  and  then  you  will  not 
break  the  skin  ;  take  out  the  spit,  cut  off  the  ears  from  the  head,  and 
crack  the  bone  and  take  out  the  brains,  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with 
all  the  inside  stuffing  and  a  little  brown  sauce ;  dish  the  pig,  the 
hacks  outside,  and  put  the  sauce  in  the  middle,  and  some  in  a  boat, 
the  ears  at  each  end. 


322. A  LEG  OF  PORK  ROASTED. 

The  i)ork  should  1)0  young  and  dairy-fed,  score  the  skin  with  a 
sharp  penknife,  a  little  fresh  butter  is  sometimes  rubbed  over  the 
skin  to  make  it  brown  and  crisp  without  blistering.  Chop  some  sage 
that  has  been  scalded,  very  fine,  add  to  it  an  onion  parboiled,  mix 
bread  crumbs  and  a  small  portion  of  apple  chopped  very  fine,  mix  all 
together,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  make  an  incision,  separating 
the  skin  from  the  fat  in  the  under  and  fillet  end  of  the  leg,  and  place 
the  stufiing  there,  the  time  of  roasting  will  depend  upon  the  size  of 
the  leg,  sene  up  with  apple  sauce. 


323. — A  LEG  OF  rORK  BOILED. 

After  having  been  salted  it  should  be  washed  in  clean  cold  water 
and  scraped  thoroughly  white  and  clean  preparatory  to  cooking ;  it 
should  then  be  put  into  a  fioured  cloth  and  into  cold  water  on  the 
lire,  when  the  rind  is  quite  tender  the  pork  will  be  done ;  let  the  water 


PORK.  115 

be  well  skimmftd,  and  serve  with  such  vegetabies  as  are  in  season ; 
should  the  joint  be  large  allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  each  peundi 
with  an  additional  twenty  minutes  from  the  time  it  boils. 


3*24. — LOIN   OF   PORK 

Shotuld,  like  the  leg,  be  scored  before  roasting,  and  well  jointed  to 
make  the  chops  separate  easily,  and  then  roast  as  a  loin  of  mutton  ; 
or  it  may  be  put  into  enough  water  to  cover  it,  simmer  until  it  is 
nearly  done,  then  take  it  out,  take  the  skin  off,  coat  it  well  with  yolk 
of  ^gg  and  bread  crumbs,  roast  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  until 
it  18  thoroughly  done. 

325. — A  FILLET  OF  PORK  TO  RESEMBLE  VEAL. 

The  fillet  should  be  cut  from  the  leg  of  a  very  large  pig,  remove 
the  bone  and  fill  the  orifice  with  veal  stuffing,  roast  it  until  it  is  more 
than  half  done,  then  take  some  thin  broth  and  put  it  in  the  stewpan, 
put  In  the  pork,  stew  until  it  is  thoroughly  done,  then  thicken  the 
gravT  and  send  it  to  table  with  forcemeat  balls  and  lemon  cut  in 
dices. 


326. — GRISKIN    OF   PORK. 

Put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  enough  water  to  cover  it,  when  it  has 
boiled  take  it  up,  butter,  and  flour  it,  and  put  it  before  the  fire  to 
blown,  ten  minutes  will  suffice. 


327. — NECK   OF    PORK    ROLLED. 

Bone  it,  chop  sage  finely,  mix  it  with  well  powdered  bread  crumbs, 
cover  the  meat  with  it  on  both  sides,  roll  the  pork,  fasten  it  securely, 
tnd  roast  it  gently. 

A  hand  and  spring  are  sometimes  dressed  thus. 


328. — SPARE  RIB  OF  PORK ROAST. 

You  must  paper  and  joint  this  down  the  middle,  and  sprinkle  it 
with  a  little  fine  sage  and  salt,  baste  and  flour  it  well ;  apple  sauce 
ma  boot. 


329. — SPARE  Rin. 

A  spare  rib  will  take  two  hours  and  a  half  to  roast  unless  ver}' 
Itige,  and  then  three  hours  will  be  required  to  cook  it  thoroughly ; 
while  roasting  baste  with  butter  and  dredge  with  flour,  pound  some 
nge  and  powder  the  spare  rib  with  it  about  twenty  minutes,  before  it 
B  done ;  a  pinch  of  salt  may  be  added. 


330.— CHINE    OF    PORK. 

This  joint  is  usually  sent  to  table  with  turkey,  it  should  be  suited 
far  aboat  sixty  or  seventy  hours  previous  to  cooking,  and  then  be 

I  2 


116  PARK. 

roasted ;  a  chine  boiled  is  as  often  sent  to  table  as  roasted,  but  the 
latter  is  usually  preferred. 

331.— CHINE  OP  POBK. 

Generally  used  at  Christmas.  This,  when  properly  cured,  is 
mostly  used  cold ;  boil  it  in  a  cloth,  with  a  sauce  of  red  cabbage,  or 
sauer  kraut  if  cold ;  garnish  with  parsley. 

332. — ALL  ROAST  PORKS. 

Be  sure  to  cut  the  skin  lengthways  into  small  strips,  not  very 
deep — to  reach  the  meat ;  send  up  apple  sauce  to  all  roast  porks. 


333. TO    PICKLE   PORK. 

Dredge  it  >vith  salt,  pounded  nearly  as  fine  as  flour,  placejupon  four 
sticks  crossed  uoon  a  dry  cold  flag-stone,  or  in  an  earthenware  dish, 
let  it  remain  to  drain  from  eighteen  to  twenty-four  hours,  then  rub  it 
well  in  with  a  brine,  consisting  of  cue  pound  of  salt,  half  a  pound  of 
coarse  brown  sugar,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  and  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  salt  prunel ;  the  last,  if  tlie  pork  is  delicate,  may  be  omitted, 
[f  many  pieces  are  being  salted,  put  them  into  a  tub,  and  pack  them 
closely,  filling  up  the  interstices  with  common  salt,  place  a  weight 
upon  the  top  to  keep  the  meat  down,  as  well  as  to  prevent  the 
admittance  of  any  air,  and  when  taken  out  for  cooking  scrape  off 
the  salt,  wash  the  pork  in  several  waters,  or  place  it  under  a  water 
tap,  letting  the  water  run  upon  it  two  or  three  minutes,  turning  it 
occasionally,  or  it  may  lie  in  souk  half  an  hour  ;  it  should  be  put  to 
boil  in  cold  water,  and  when  the  rind  is  tender  it  will  be  done  enough. 


334. — BOILED  PORK — OF  ALL  KINDS, 

The  leg  you  must  skin  the  same  as  ham,  and  dish  its  back 
part  upwards,  and  glaze  it ;  place  a  ruffle  at  the  knuckle ;  sauce, 
sauer  kraut,  or  stewed  red  cabbage  ;  pease  pudding  to  all  pork  when 
boiled. 


835. — pig's  ciiei.ks — a  half  one. 

Boil  and  trim  in  the  shape  of  ham,  and  if  very  fat,  carve  it  as  a 
cockle  shell ;  glaze  it  well,  or  put  bread  crumbs  and  brown  them, 
sauce  as  before. 


336. — PIGS  face  for  breakfast. 

Cut  the  ears  ofF  and  take  out  the  tongue  and  brains,  then  lay  them 
in  salt  for  two  davs,  take  them  out  of  that,  and  then  use  the 
ingredients  as  for  tongues,  and  dry  them  the  same  as  hams. 


337. — pork  cutlets. 
Cut  from  a  neck,  or  ivhat  is  called  fore-loin  of  pork,  the  best  end, 


POBK.  117 

trim  it  as  yoa  do  lamb  or  mutton,  leaving  a  little  fat ;  scrape  the 
bone,  rub  or  chop  some  sage  fine,  with  a  very  little  piece  of  shalot, 
mix  it  up  with  only  sufficient  bread  crumbs,  put  black  pepper  and 
saJt  into  the  crumbs,  herbs,  dip  each  cutlet  in  clarified  butter  or 
melted  lard,  press  the  crumbs  well  upon  the  cutlets,  have  a  Siiut6 
pan  greased  with  lard,  lay  them  into  it,  fry  them  a  nice  light  brown, 
take  them  up  and  dry  them  on  paper,  dish  upon  miished  potatoes, 
use  sauce  robert,  or  sobiese,  or  tomato,  or  any  other  as  to  palate. 


338. — PORK    CUTLETS. 

Cut  them  from  a  small  delicate  loin  of  pork,  bone,  and  trim  them 
neatly,  fry  them  a  light  brown,  put  into  a  small  stewpau  a  little 
Tinegar,  and  eschalot  chopped  veiy  finely,  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
tomato  sauce,  and  sufficient  brown  giuvy  to  make  it  tasty ;  stew  the 
cutlets  in  the  sauce  five  minutes,  and  send  them  to  table  dished 
handsomely;  if  the  cutlets  are  broiled  they  may  be  dipped  in  yolk 
of  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  broiled  over  a  clear  fire,  and  served 
with  tomato  sauce,  or  sauco  robcrt. 


339. — PORK  CHOPS  OR  STEAKS. 

Gat  from  the  best  end  of  the  loin,  or  from  the  chump  or  leg  if 
steaks ;  remove  the  fat  and  skin,  turn  them  frequently  and  quickly 
while  broiling,  if  your  gridiron  be  of  the  old  fashion  it  is  better  to 
keep  it  aslant  on  the  fire,  the  handle  being  the  lowest  part  it  prevents 
very  much  of  the  fat  from  falling  into  the  fire,  the  flare  of  which  is 
apt  to  impart  a  disagreeable  flavour  to  the  chops ;  this  observation 
implies  also  to  mutton  chops,  and  will  be  found  useful  if  followed  : 
sprinkle  them  with  salt  when  nearly  done,  nnd  nib  with  a  little  fresh 
hatter  previous  to  8er>'iug,  if  for  a  side  dish  garnish  with  crisped 
panley. 


340. PORK    SAUSAGES. 

There  are  many  receipts  for  the  making  of  pork  sausages;  several 
counties  have  their  own  peculiar  receipts;  Epping,  in  Essex,Tamed  for 
its  butter,  is  also  famed  for  its  sausages ;  Lewes,  in  Sussex,  and  Cam- 
bridge,  also  have  a  name  for  the  manufacture  of  tlie  same  article.  The 
peculiarity  in  their  sausages  being  the  quantity  and  variety  of  herbs 
which  they  introduce,  the  prevalence  of  some  particular  one  giving 
the  flavour,  as  well  as  the  peculiarity  to  each.  The  presence  of  so 
maoy  herbs  is,  however,  not  always  considered  an  agreeable  feature, 
and  many  palates  are  offended  at  that  which  forms  to  others  the 
great  merit.     The  following  is  a  very  simple  receipt. 

Take  of  the  fat  of  pork  one  pound,  that  of  the  loin  of  a  large 
riehly  fed  pig,  or  the  inward  fat  of  a  small  one.  Chop  it  finely  with 
half  a  pound  of  lean  pork ;  add  to  it  four  or  five  sage  leaves  finely 
diopped,  some  lemon  thyme  in  a  small  quantity,  and  three  dessert- 


118  PORK. 

spoonfuls  of  cmmb  of  bread  powdered ;  be  careful  not  to  put  too 
much  of  the  latter,  as  it  teuds  to  turn  the  sausages  sour  if  kept 
Amalgamate  these  ingredients  well,  dust  on  grated  nutmeg,  mace, 
and  cloves  in  }X)wder,  and  finish  with  black  pepper  and  sut,  being 
sure  to  season  well ;  the  meat  may  then  be  put  into  the  skins,  or  m^ 
be  put  in  jars  covered  down  from  the  air,  to  be  used  for  rolls  or  staff- 
ing, or  any  required  purpose. 

All  skin  must  be  pared  from  the  fat  before  chopping,  and  every 
sinew  removed  from  the  lean  pork,  as  well  as  any  bone,  or  anything 
which  may  impair  the  taste  when  eaten. 


841. ^THB   rNIYERSITT  RECEIPT   FOR  PORK   SAUSAGES. 

To  a  couple  of  pounds  of  lean  pork  younff,  white,  and  delicate, 
put  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  minced  beef  suet^  the  pork  must 
first  bo  chopped  very  fine ;  add  three  dessert-spoonfuls  of  bread 
which  has  been  dipped  in  Port  wine,  dried  and  grated  fine ;  work 
it  together  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  smoothly  beaten :  season  it 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  dried  sage ;  a  very  little  cayenne  may  be 
introduced,  and  a  very  small  piece  of  garlic.  Work  the  whole  well 
together  in  a  mortar  until  it  forms  a  paste ;  it  may  then  be  put  into 
wide  skins,  or  pressed  down  into  jars  for  future  use.  It  is  cut  into 
square  pieces,  dredged  with  fiour,  fried  in  fresh  butter,  and  sent  to 
table  on  a  toast  as  a  breakfast  dish. 


342. SAUCISSES   A   L^ESPAQNOLE. 

Cut  into  chops  the  loin  of  a  good  sized  pig,  bone  it,  and  cut  the 
meat  into  dice,  keeping  the  fat  and  lean  separate,  three  quarters  of 
an  inch  square.  Chop  two  corns  of  garlic  fine,  add  to  it  black 
pepper,  Spanish  pepper,  and  salt ;  mix  it  well  together,  and  season 
the  meat  with  it :  pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of  an  acid  wine,  and  when 
it  has  been  drawn  in  by  the  meat,  add  more,  until  the  expira- 
tion of  a  week ;  then  lay  the  meat  in  skins,  alternately  fat  and  lean, 
and  if  any  moisture  appears  to  be  required  give  it  a  little  more  wine. 
Twist  the  skin,  and  tie  it  in  the  lengths  you  require,  and  keep  them 
in  a  cool  dry  place.  They  may  be  boiled,  fiied,  broiled,  grilled, 
toasted,  served  with  poultry  or  veal,  or  may  be  eaten  with  bread 
alone. 


343. — ^PORK   SAUSAGES. 

Chop,  particularly  fine,  about  two  or  three  pounds  of  lean  pork, 
and  an  equal  quantity  of  fat ;  have  ready  some  sage,  either  dry  or 
green,  either  passed  through  a  sieve  or  chopped  very  fine,  a  small 
piece  of  shalot,  a  few  grains  of  ground  cloves,  season  it  with  pepper 
and  salt,  mix  a  few  fine  bread  crumbs  up  with  it,  hare  Tour  skiqs 
ready  cleaned,  then  fill  them,  or  if  preferred  roll  into  balls  and  fry 
them,  you  will  tie  them  the  length  you  wish  the  samages  to  be. 


PO&K.  119 

prick  the  akina  with  a  fork  before  you  fry  them,  you  may  do  them  in 
the  OTcm  if  it  should  be  hot 


344. — ANOniEE  WAY« 

GSiop  the  pork  as  before,  only  add  half  the  quantity  of  lean  veal,  a 
pound  of  suet  chopped  equally  fine,  have  ready  a  French  roll  soaked 
in  milk  but  no  crust,  season  it  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  mix  it  all 
well  together. 

345. A  DIFFEBEKT  TO   A   DIFFKRENT   PALATE. 

Chop  pork  as  before,  and  an  equal  quantity  of  fat,  and  the  quan- 
tity of  lean  veal,  and  the  same  of  suet,  and  two  or  three  hiuidfuls  of 
fiiie  bread  crumbs,  have  ready  a  few  Siige  leaves,  a  few  of  knotted 
maijoram  and  one  sbalot;  pound  all  well  together,  season  with 
white  pepper  and  salt,  either  put  them  in  skins  or  roll  them  and  fry 
them  as  above. 


346. — SPICED  SAUSAGES. 

RiA  well  into  a  piece  of  pork  some  saltpetre,  allspice,  and  black 
pepper,  let  it  lie  seveml  days,  rubbing  it  each  day,  then  chop  it 
■nail,  and  add  to  it  two  shalots  chopped  fine,  have  ready  cleaned 
well  an  ox-gut,  fill  it  with  this  meat  quite  tight,  tie  both  ends  firm, 
let  it  be  smoked  as  hams,  wrap  it  in  a  thin  cloth,  then  let  it  he  well 
dried,  you  may  tie  it  into  what  lengths  you  pleuse  before  smoking ; 
this  will  eat  hot  or  cold. 


347.— WHITE   SAUSAGES. 

Have  ready  some  well-dried  oatmeal,  two  or  three  onions  to  boil 
in  milk,  chop  them  very  fine,  chop  two  pounds  of  suet  very  fine, 
mix  about  a  pint  of  oatmeal  to  the  suet,  add  the  onions,  8ea«>on  all 
with  pepper  and  salt,  rather  predominant  with  pepjcr  and  onions, 
filling  the  skins  as  for  former  sausages,  if  approved  of  add  a  few 
carrants  and  boiled  rice  in  milk  to  them. 

Yoa  may  make  sausages  of  any  dres<ied  meats,  cither  chicken  or 
nbbits ;  chop  up  the  meat  very  fine,  adding  onions  and  seasonings 
as  in  the  former,  adding  chopped  parsley  and  a  few  grains  of 
pounded  mace,  add  some  bacon  chopped  instead  of  suet,  mix  all 
together  with  two  yolks  of  eggs,  a  few  bread  crumbs  and  a  few  drops 
of  lemon-juice ;  fill  this  in  the  skins  as  before,  and  broil  or  fry  them. 


848. — SAUCI9SES   AUX   CHATAIONES. 
STEWED    SAUSAGE    MEAT,    WITH    CHESTNUTS. 

Take  twenty  or  thirty  sound  chestnuts,  roast  them  over  a  slow  fire. 
and  when  sufficiently  roasted  to  remove  the  husk  take  them  off,  peel 
them,  removing  the  inner  skin  as  well  as  the  husk,  and  put  them 
aaida  sufficiently  near  the  fire  not  to  cool  too  readily.     Cut  into 


120  PORK. 

diamonds  half  a  dozen  thin  slices  of  sausage  meat,  and  fry  them 
brown  in  a  little  fresh  butter.  When  they  are  a  good  colour,  take  them 
out,  and  pour  three  parts  of  the  butter  in  which  they  have  been  fried 
into  a  small  well-tinned  or  earthenware  saucepan.  Thicken  it  while 
heating  with  a  spoonful  of  flour,  and  pour  in  gradually  a  pint  of 
good  gravy,  with  a  glass  of  old  brown  sherry,  or  two  of  Madeirt. 
Put  in  a  faggot  of  herbs,  and  season  to  palate,  a  little  cayenne  may 
accompany  the  common  pepper.  As  soon  as  it  boils  lay  the  sausage 
cakes  round  the  saucepan  close  to  the  sides,  leaving  the  centre  clear, 
and  in  this  space  put  the  chestnuts.  Let  them  stew  slowly  three 
quarters  of  an  hour;  then  dish  them,  arranging  the  sausage  meat 
and  chestnuts  in  the  same  manner  as  in  the  stewpan;  pour  thegraTy 
over  them,  removing  the  faggot  of  herbs  first  and  serve. 


349. — ^TO   COLLAR  A   PIG  S  HEAD. 

Clean  tlioroughly,  and  put  it  in  pickle  for  a  week,  boil  it  tender, 
then  take  out  the  bones  carefully,  turn  the  upper  part  of  one  cheek 
to  the  snout  of  the  other  cheek,  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt, 
roll  it  lightly  in  a  cloth,  and  secure  it,  then  boil  until  it  is  veiy  tender, 
do  not  remove  the  cloth  when  done  but  place  it  upon  an  earthenware 
dish,  lay  a  heavy  weight  upon  it.  and  unbind  when  cold  ;  if  the  chedc 
is  a  large  and  fat  one,  it  will  be  improved  by  laying  a  slice  or  two  of 
lean  pork,  or  ham  between  the  checks  before  binding  them  in  the 
cloth. 


350. — pig's  head  baked. 

Let  it  be  dinded  and  thoroughly  cleaned ;  take  out  the  brains, 
trim  the  snout  and  ears,  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half,  wash  the  brains 
thoroughly,  blanch  them,  beat  them  up  with  an  egg,  pepper  and  salt, 
and  some  finely  chopped  or  pounded  sage,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter, 
fry  them  or  brown  them  before  the  fire ;  serve  with  the  head. 


351. — pig's  head  boiled. 

This  is  the  more  profitable  dish  though  not  so  pleasant  to  the 
palate,  it  should  tii*st  be  salted,  whic^h  is  usually  done  by  the  pork 
butcher,  it  should  be  boiled  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  it  must  boil  gently 
or  the  meat  will  be  hard ;  serve  with  vegetables. 


35:2. — pettitoes. 

Put  them  in  just  sufiBcicnt  water  to  cover  them,  add  the  heart  and 
liver,  boil  them  ten  minutes,  take  out  tlie  liver  and  heart,  and  mince 
them  small,  and  return  them  to  the  feet,  stew  until  quite  tender, 
thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  serve  up 
with  sippets  of  plain  bread,  or  toasted  bread  ;  make  a  pyramid  of  the 
minced  heart  and  liver,  and  lay  the  feet  round  them. 

Wlien  pettitoes  are  fried,  they  should  be  first  boiled,  then  dipped 
in  butter,  and  fried  a  light  brown. 


PORK.  121 

353  — pigs'  feet  stewed. 

Cleau,  split,  and  boil  tender,  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  enough 
gravy  to  cover  them,  an  onion  sliced,  a  few  sage  leaves,  whole  black 
pepper,  allspice,  and  salt,  stew  forty  minutes,  strain  off  the  gravy, 
thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  add  two  spoonfuls  of  vinegar  or  one 
dessert-spoonful  of  lemon  pickle  ;  sen^e  it  up  witli  the  feet. 


354. Pics'    FEET   AND    EARS    FRIED. 

They  most  be  well  cleaned,  and  boiled  until  tender,  and  laid  in 
Tinegar  and  water,  with  salt  in  it,  until  they  are  required  for  use ; 
to  prepare  them  for  cooking,  cut  the  feet  in  two,  slice  the  ears,  dip 
them  in  butter,  dredge  with  flour,  fry  a  nice  colour,  and  ser>'e  with 
melted  butter  and  lemon  pickle. 

355. pigs'    HARSLET 

Is  made  with  the  liver  and  sweetbreads,  which  must  be  well  cleaned, 
add  to  them  pieces  of  pork  both  fat  and  lean,  chop  finely  sage  and 
onions,  season  with  pef)por  and  salt,  and  mix  with  the  preceding ; 
put  them  in  a  cowl,  tie  it  closely,  and  roast.  It  may  also  be  baked. 
Serve  with  a  sauce  of  port  wine  and  water  and  mustard,  just  boiled 
ap,  and  put  it  into  the  dish. 


356. — COCHON    DE    LAIT    LN    RI.A.SQl  KITE. — KNTREE. 

Dress  this  the  same  as  Blanquctte  de  Vcau. 

357. — WHITE  puddings 

Are  made  with  beef  suet  and  oatmeal,  flavoured  and  seasoned. 
Take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  beef  suet,  chop  it  ver}'  fine,  and, 
having  boiled  a  pound  of  oatnioid  tightly  wedged  do\>-n  in  a  small 
vhite  basin  closely  covered  widi  a  cloth  for  five  hours,  scrape  it  into 
powder, 'and  mix  it  \vith  the  suet,  two  small  onions  boiled  and  chopped 
fine,  and  season  well  with  white  pepper  and  salt,  a  small  quantity  of 
thyme  and  maijonnn  may  be  added  at  pleasure.  Boil  them  an  hour. 
Like  all  sausages  they  must  be  pricked  while  cooking,  to  suffer  the 
hot  air  generated  to  escape,  or  they  will  bui*st. 

358. BLACK    PUDDINGS. 

Stir  three  quarts  of  sheep's  blood  with  one  spoonful  of  salt  till  cold, 
boil  aquartof  Embden  grits  in  sufficient  water  to  swell  them,  drain,  and 
add  them  to  the  blood  with  a  pound  of  suet,  a  little  pounded  nutmeg, 
some  mace,  cloves,  and  allspice,  a  pound  of  the  hog  s  fat  cut  small, 
some  parsley  finely  minced,  sage,  sweet  herbs,  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 
salt,  and  pepper ;  mix  these  ingredients  well  together,  put  them  into 
well  cleaned  skins,  tie  them  in  links,  and  prick  the  skins,  that  while 
boiling  they  may  not  burst  Let  them  boil  twenty  minutes,  and 
cover  them  with  clean  straw  until  they  are  cold. 


122  PORK. 

359. — BLACK  AKD  WHITB  FUDDINOS. 

Procure  the  pig's  blood,  then  add  half  a  pound  of  half-boiled  rice, 
set  it  to  cool  keepinjy  it  stirred,  add  a  little  more  rice  boiled  in  inilk» 
add  it  to  the  blood,  cut  up  about  one  pound  of  fat  pork  into  largt 
dice,  melt  half  a  pound  of  lard  and  pour  into  the  olood  and  rice» 
then  add  jour  &t,  with  a  few  bread  crumbs,  three  shalots,  a  little 
parsley,  some  black  pepper,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt,  mix  all  well 
together,  then  fill  into  skins  as  before;  tie  them  the  length  you  wish 
them,  then  boil  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  take  them  out  and  lay 
them  on  some  new  clean  straw  until  cold,  then  give  them  another 
IkhI  for  a  few  minutes,  then  turn  them  as  before  until  wanted,  put 
them  in  the  oren  when  you  require  them,  or  fry  t.iem  or  broil  ^kim. 


360. —  LARD. — TO  MELT  LARD. 

Take  the  inner  fat  of  a  newly  killed  pig  and  strip  ofif  the  skin 
completely  and  carefully,  slice  it  and  put  it  into  ajar,  a  sprig  of  rose- 
mary may  be  placed  with  it,  and  set  tne  jar  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water; 
let  it  melt,  and  when  perfectly  fluid  pour  it  into  dry  clean  jars,  and 
cover  them  closely ;  it  may  be  kept  some  time  in  a  dry  place,  and 
when  used  may  be  mixed  with  butter  for  pastry,  for  frying  fish,  and 
many  other  purposes  in  cooking. 

301. — HAMS. — BOILED  HAM, 

Hams  which  come  from  the  large  cheesemongers  have  usually  been 
long  hung  and  are  very  dirty ;  if  such  should  be  the  case  the  bam 
should  be  soaked  about  twelve  hours,  then  wrapped  in  a  clean  clotb* 
and  laid  upon  stone  flags  for  two  days,  the  cloth  being  kept  moistened 
with  clean  soft  water,  this  will  render  it  tender  when  cooked,  let  it  be 
thoroughly  scraped  and  cleaned,  and  placed  in  the  copper,  which  in 
small  families  will  be  found  the  most  convenient  mode  of  cooking  it ; 
they  should  be  put  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  them,  which  water, 
when  the  ham  is  cooked,  will  bo  found  of  the  greatest  service  in 
making  stock  for  soups;  the  time  it  will  require  to  boil  will  depend 
upon  the  weight  of  the  ham,  a  small  one  three  hours  and  a  naif, 
which  may  progress  according  to  the  weight  to  six  hours,  when  it  is 
done  remove  the  skin  if  possible  without  breaking  it,  it  prevents  the 
ham  when  cold  becoming  diy ;  spread  over  the  ham  bread  raspings, 
the  dish  should  be  garnished  with  sliced  boiled  carrots. 

362. TO  CURE  HAMS. 

In  London  this  is  a  knowledge  scarcely  required,  hams  are  brought 
thither  in  such  vast  numbers  that  it  is  scarcely  worth  the  trouble  to 
cure  them,  the  more  especidly  as  the  hams  are  generally  cured  with 
considerable  skill  and  with  advantages  not  possessed  by  a  private 
family.  As,  however,  in  many  families  it  is  preferred  to  cure  at  home, 
and  as  in  many  parts  of  the  country,  where  this  work,  it  is  hoped, 
will  find  its  way,  it  becomes  almost  a  matter  of  necessity,  we  sul^oin 
the  following  receipt. 


PORK.  123 

Place  the  ham  in  a  deep  pun,  coyer  it  viiih  treacle,  and  rub  it  well 
irith  it  for  three  days ;  then  mix  together  in  a  mortar  one  pound  of 
oommon  salt,  half  the  quantity  of  hay  salt,  an  ounce  of  black  i>epper, 
and  three  ounces  of  saltpetre,  these  quantities  have  been  found  to 
answer  most  successfully  ;  beat  them  \sell  together,  and  rub  well 
into  the  ham,  continue  this  for  a  montli,  turning  and  rubbing  every 
day*  then  drain  the  pickle  from  the  ham,  allowing  it  after  being 
nmoved  from  the  pan  about  sixty  hours  to  drain  effectually,  it  may 
then  be  washed  with  a  little  white  vinegar  and  hung  up  to  dry. 


363. — TO   CURB   HAMS. 

Pomid  tome  hay  salt,  saltpetre,  and  common  salt,  and  some  coarse 
brown  sogar,  mix  it  all  well  together,  tlien  put  it  all  to  get  hot,  and 
while  hot  rub  the  hams  well  with  this,  repeating  it  every  morning 
for  a  week,  let  them  lie  in  the  brine  for  another  week,  until  all  well 
incorporated  in  the  meat;  then  take  them  out  to  drain  on  dishes, 
floor  them  and  hang  them  up  to  dry ;  you  must  be  guided  a  good 
deal  bj  the  sixe  of  the  hams. 


364. — TONGUES. 

Yon  will  first  lay  in  salt,  first  then  use  the  same  hot  preparations 
dailTf  about  ten  days  will  do  for  the  tongues ;  sheep*s  tongues_may 
be  done  the  same,  but  less  time. 


365.^AN0THER  BECEIPT  TO   CURE   HAM. 

Let  the  ham  hang  for  three  days,  sprinkle  it  well  during  the  time 
nith  salt.  Make  a  pickle  of  eight  ounces  of  bay  salt,  an  equal 
foantity  of  common  salt,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  the  same  of  black 
pniper»  half  a  pound  of  common  brown  sugar,  and  a  quart  of  beer ; 
bnl  it*  pour  hot  upon  the  ham,  turn  it  every  day  in  the  pickle  for 
three  weeks,  wipe  it  as  dry  as  possible,  and  bury  it  in  bran.  Smoke 
it  for  a  month  over  wood  smoke ;  it  must  be  sewn  in  a  coarse  strong 
Clipper. 

360. — TO    BAKE   A   HAM. 

Put  the  ham  in  soak  previous  to  dressing  it ;  if  an  old  one  two 
bours  will  be  required,  but  if  not  veiy  old,  an  hour  will  suilicc. 
Wipe  it  very  dry,  and  cover  it  with  a  paste  about  an  inch  in  thick- 
netB.  The  edges  being  first  moistened  must  be  drawn  togetlier,  and 
auide  to  adhere,  or  the  gravy  will  escape.  Bake  it  in  a  regular,  well- 
baated  oven,  it  will  take  from  three  to  six  hours,  according  to  its 
veidit;  when  done  remove  the  paste,  and  then  the  skin.  This  must 
be  done  while  the  ham  is  hot.  If  well  baked  and  not  too  salt,  it 
will  piOTO  of  finer  flavour  than  if  boiled. 


124  PORK. 

367. ^TO   BRAISE   A   HAM   IN   THE    FRENCH   FASHION. 

It  is  prepared  for  cooking  in  the  same  manner  as  in  the  preceding 
receipt,  but  when  cleaned  it  is  placed  upon  a  layer  of  new  hay,  which 
has  previously  been  laid  evenly  upon  a  clean  white  cloth,  which 
should  also  be  thin,  that  the  flavour  of  the  braise  may  be  imparted. 
It  is  then  placed  in  a  8te>*-pan,  with  two  parts  water  to  one  part  vin 
ordinaire,  or  any  light  white  wine,  and  suffere'l  to  come  to  a  boil. 
The  scum  must  be  removed,  and  then  vegetables  added,  four  carrots, 
three  onions,  a  faggot  of  herbs,  and,  if  approved,  a  little  corn  of 
garlic,  perhaps  less  of  that  powerfully  flavoured  root.  Simmer  from 
three  hours  and  a  half  to  six,  accorduig  to  the  weight ;  when  tender 
it  is  enough.  The  skin  should  then  be  stripped  off  carefully,  and 
bread  raspings  strewed  over  it.  Powdered  herbs,  or  parsley  chopped 
very  fine,  are  sometimes  mixed  with  the  raspings,  but  taste  must 
regulate  its  admission  or  omission. 


368. — TO  BRAISE    A   HAM. 

Put  the  ham  into  water  the  night  previous  to  cooking,  and  next 
day  wash  it  in  warm  water,  trim  it  by  cutting  away  all  the  yellow  fat 
and  rusty  parts ;  take  otf  the  knuckle,  and  pare  down  all  the  under 
part ;  put  it  in  a  stewpan,  and  just  cover  it  with  water ;  lay  in  a  slice 
of  beef  cut  into  pieces,  a  few  onions,  a  faggot  of  sweet  herhs,  three 
small  carrots,  and  a  little  albpice ;  simmer  from  three  to  six  hours, 
it  must  dei)end  entirely  upon  the  size  and  weight.  Take  out  the 
ham,  and  skin  it ;  glaze,  and  serve  it  upon  a  puree  of  vegetables. 
The  braise  may  be  made  into  a  rich  brown  soup,  thickened  and 
flavoured  with  wine,  it  may  serve  also  for  the  flavouring  of  soups. 


309. — HAM    RASHERS,  OR   SLICES 

May  be  toasted,  broiled,  or  fried.  May  be  served  with  spinach 
and  poached  eggs,  boiled  green  peas.  Stewed  ^\^th  green  peas,  or 
cut  in  thin  slices,  divided  in  four  pieces,  each  piece  rolled  and  fas- 
tened with  a  skewer,  roasted  in  a  Dutch  oven,  and  served  with  peas. 
They  should  in  all  cases  be  cut  an  even  thickness,  and  cooked 
without  injuring  the  colour.  Bacon  may  be  dressed  in  the  same 
variety. 

370. TO  CURE  BACON. COBBETX's  RECEIPT. 

The  two  sides  that  remain,  and  which  are  called  ft  itches ,  are  to  be 
cured  for  bacon.  They  are  first  rubbed  with  salt  on  their  insides,  or 
flesh  sides,  then  placed  one  on  the  other,  the  flesh  sides  uppermost, 
in  a  salting  trough  which  has  a  gutter  roimd  its  edges  to  drain  away 
the  brine,  for  to  have  sweet  and  fine  bacon  the  flitches  must  not  be 
sopping  in  brine,  which  gives  it  the  sort  of  taste  that  barrel  pork  and 
sea  pork  have,  and  than  which  nothing  is  more  villanous  ;  every  one 
knows  how  different  is  the  taste  of  fresh  dry  salt  from  that  of  salt  in 
a  dbsolved  state,  therefore  change  the  salt  often,  once  in  four  or  five 


PORK.  125 

days  ;  let  it  melt  and  sink  in,  but  leyt  it  not  lie  too  long ;  change  tTie 
flitches,  put  that  at  bottom  which  was  first  on  the  top,  do  tliis  a  couple 
of  times  ;  this  mode  will  cost  you  a  great  deal  more  in  salt  than  the 
sopping  mode^  but  without  it  your  bacon  will  not  be  so  sweet  and  fine, 
nor  keep  so  well.  As  for  the  time  required  in  making  yom'  flitches 
sufficiently  salt,  it  depends  on  circumstances,  tlio  thickness  of  the 
flitch,  the  state  of  the  weather,  the  place  wherein  the  salting  is  going 
on ;  it  takes  a  longer  time  for  a  thick  than  a  thin  flitch ;  it  takes 
longer  in  dry  than  in  damp  weather  ;  it  takes  longer  in  a  dry  than  in 
a  damp  place  ;  but  for  the  flitches  of  a  hog  of  five  score,  in  weather 
not  very  dry  or  damp,  about  six  weeks  may  do ;  and  as  yours  is  to  be 
faty  which  receives  little  injury  from  over  salting,  give  time  enough, 
for  you  are  to  have  bacon  until  Christmas  comes  again. 

The  place  for  salting  should,  like  a  dairj',  always  be  cool,  but  always 
admit  of  a  free  circulation  of  air  ;  confined  air,  though  cool,  will  taint 
meat  sooner  than  the  mid-day  sun  accompanied  by  a  brocv.e.  With 
regard  to  smoking  the  bacon,  two  precautions  arc  necessary :  lirst,  to 
lumg  the  flitches  where  no  rain  comes  down  upon  thoni.  and  next, 
that  the  smoke  must  proceed  from  wood,  not  peat,  turf,  nor  coal.  As 
to  the  time  it  requires  to  smoke  a  flitch,  it  must  depend  a  good  deal 
upon  whether  there  be  a  consbmt  fire  beneatli,  and  wliether  the  fire 
be  large  or  small ;  a  mouth  will  do  if  the  fire  be  pretty  constant,  and 
rich  as  a  farm-house  fire  usually  is  ;  but  over  smoking,  or  ratlicr  too 
long  hanging  in  the  air,  makes  the  bacon  rust ;  great  attention  sliould 
therefore  be  paid  to  this  matter.  The  flitch  ought  not  to  bo  dried  up 
to  the  hardness  of  a  board,  and  yet  it  ought  to  be  perfectly  diy ;  before 
you  hang  it  up  lay  it  on  the  floor,  scatter  the  flesh  side  pretty  thickly 
over  with  bran,  or  with  some  fine  sawdust,  not  of  deal  or  fi r ;  rub  it 
on  the  flesh,  or  pat  it  well  down  upon  it,  this  keeps  the  smoke  from 
getting  into  the  little  openings,  and  makes  a  sort  of  cnist  to  br;  dried 
on. 

••  To  keep  the  bacon  sweet  and  good,  and  free  from  hoppers,  sift 
fine  some  clean  and  dry  wood  ashes.  Put  some  at  the  bottom  of  a 
box  or  chest,  long  enough  to  hold  a  flitch  of  bacon.  Lay  in  one 
flitch,  and  then  put  in  more  ashes,  then  another  flitcli,  and  cover  this 
with  six  or  eight  inches  of  the  ashes.  The  place  where  the  box  or 
chest  is  kept  ought  to  be  dry,  and  should  the  ashes  become  damp, 
they  should  be  put  in  the  fireplace  to  diy,  and  when  cold  put  back 
again.  With  these  precautions,  the  bacon  will  be  as  good  at  the  end 
of  the  year,  as  on  the  first  day.'* 

It  may  be  as  well  to  observe  in  reference  to  the  above  receipt, 
given  by  the  very  celebrated  William  Cobbett  in  his  Cottage  Economy, 
that  most  counties  in  England  have  their  peculiar  method  of  curing 
hams  and  bacon,  each  varying  in  some  slight  dej^ree  from  the  other, 
and,  of  course,  each  is  considered  orthodox.  But  for  simple  general 
rules,  the  above  may  be  safely  taken  as  a  guide ;  and  those  who 
implicitly  follow  the  directions  given  will  possess  at  the  expiration  of 
from  six  weeks  to  two  months  well  flavoured  and  well  cured  bacon. 


126  POBK. 

871. — ^TO  CUBE  BACON  FOB  ULBDIKO, 

It  is  of  little  use  preparing  a  small  piece  of  bacon  for  larding,  &r 
dififerent  joints  require  lardings  of  different  lengths,  a  piece  of  beef, 
for  example,  will,  if  of  a  tolerable  size,  require  very  lengthy  lardinn, 
as  a  fowl  will  require  but  small  ones.  Ten  to  twenty  pounds  should 
at  least  be  prepared ;  take  fifteen  pounds,  and  the  fatter  it  is  the 
better,  rub  it  well  v.-ith  a  pound  and  a  half  of  pounded  common  salt* 
if  in  one  piece  lay  it  upon  a  board  with  another  over  it,  if  in  more  than 
one  piece  let  each  piece  have  a  board  with  a  weight  at  the  top,  keep 
it  in  a  cool  place  four  or  five  weeks,  hang  it  to  dry  but  not  to  be 
smoked. 


372. — TO   BOIL   BACON. 

If  very  salt,  soak  it  in  soft  water  two  hours  before  cooking.  Pat 
it  into  a  saucepan  with  plenty  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  gently ;  if 
two  or  three  pounds,  it  will  take  from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a 
quarter ;  if  larger,  an  hour  and  forty  minutes  will  suffice.  If  a  fine 
piece  of  the  gammon  of  bacon,  it  may  when  done  have  the  skin^  at 
in  hams,  stripped  off,  and  have  finely  powdered  bread  laspings 
strewed  over  it.  It  will  improve  the  appearance  when  sent  to 
table. 


873. — BACON,   TO   BROIL. 

Make  up  a  sheet  of  paper  in  the  shape  of  a  drippingpan,  cut  jmir 
bacon  into  thin  slices,  cut  off  the  rind,  lay  the  bacon  on  the  paper, 
put  it  over  the  gridiron,  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  and  it  will  broil 
clearly. 

374  . — BACON,   TO   MAKE. 

Rub  the  bacon  with  a  little  common  salt,  and  let  them  lie  till  the 
brine  runs  from  them ;  in  a  week  rub  off  all  the  salt  and  put  them 
in  a  tub,  then  rub  into  the  flitches  a  pound  of  saltpetre  pounded  and 
heated,  the  next  day  do  the  same  with  common  salt,  also  heated,  let 
them  lie  a  week,  often  rubbing  them,  do  the  same  for  three  weeks  or 
a  month,  at  the  end  of  that  time  dry  and  hang  them  up  for  use. 

375. — BACON   AND   CABBAGE. 

Boil  some  fine  streaked  part  of  bacon  with  a  little  stock,  and  the 
ends  of  eight  or  ten  sausages,  boil  in  the  same  stock  some  white 
cabbages  for  two  hours,  add  salt  and  spice  and  serve  very  hot, 
place  your  sausages  and  cabbage  round  your  dish,  and  the  bacon  in 
the  middle. 


376. ^BACON   AND   EGOS. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  streaked  bacon,  cut  it  into  thin 
slices,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  over  a  slow  fire,  take  care  to 
turn  tbem  frequently,  then  pour  the  melted  fat  of  the  bacon  into  a 
dish,  break  over  it  seven  or  eight  eggs,  add  two  spoonfuls  of  gravy, 


POBK.  127 

and  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  stew  the  whole  oyer  a  slow  fire, 
a  salamander  over  it  and  serve. 


377. BACON   FRAZB. 

Beat  eight  eggs  into  a  batter,  a  little  cream  and  flour,  fry  some 
ihin  slices  of  bacon  and  dip  them  in  it,  lay  the  bacon  in  a  fryingpan, 
pour  the  batter  over  them,  when  one  side  is  fried  turn  and  pour 
more  batter  over  them,  when  both  sides  are  of  a  good  colour  lay 
them  on  a  dish  and  serve  hot. 


378. — BACON   GAMMON,   TO   BAKE. 

.  Take  a  gammon  of  bacon,  lay  it  to  soak  all  ni^ht,  scrape  it  clean 
snd  stuff  it  wMithjrme,  sage,  savoury,  sweet  morjoram,  penny-royal, 
atewbernr-leafet^  violet-leaTes,  and  fennel ;  chop  these  and  mix 
Ama  with  the  jAks  of  hard  ^gs,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  boiled  till 
tender ;  when  it  is  cold  pare  the  under  side,  pull  off  the  skin,  season 
it  with  pepper  and  nutmej^  and  put  it  in  a  paste,  and  bake  with 
wbele  ooTea  aftd  slices  of  imw  bacon  laid  over  it,  and  butter. 


979. — BACON  TOAST. 

Cot  some  thin  slices  of  bread,  about  two  or  three  inches  long,  cut 
streaked  bacon  in  small  pieces,  dip  them  into  a  raw  egg  beaten 
to  wMi  shred  pardeVt  gnen  onions,  shalots,  and  pepper,  fry  over  a 
mm  faoi  and  aerve  with  clear  sance  and  a  little  vinegar  in  it. 

380. — BACON   TOAST. 

fSot  off  the  ends  of  a  stale  French  brick,  and  lard  the  middle  of  it 
with  streaked  bacon,  then,  with  a  very  sharp  knif%  cot  the  loaf  in 
dioet,  abont  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  dip  them  in  eggs,  and  fry 
gently  in  a  very  hot  pan  till  of  a  good  coloor ;  serve  with  a  little 
dear  sauce  and  a  little  vinegar  and  pepper. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 
POTJLTBT. 


Always  have  good  and  fat  poultry  where  possible,  in  the  countr 
you  may  commanil  it.  The  best  sort  for  table  is  the  Dorking  breet 
they  are  fire  toed,  have  white  legs,  and  feathers  of  a  greyish  whit 
colour. 

About  three  weeks  before  you  want  to  use  them,  six  or  twelT 
fowls,  according  to  your  coniiumption,  should  be  put  into  the  coo{ 
and  as  you  kill  one  or  more  replace  them  to  keep  up  the  stock- ;  fc 
the  first  week  feed  them  alternate  days  with  boiled  rice  and  soake 
bread  and  milk,  the  remainder  of  the  lime  mix  barley  meal  wit 
the  skimmings  of  your  stockpot  and  a  spoonful  of  moist  sugar,  th 
windows  of  your  poultry  house  must  he  darkened. 

Fowls  should  be  carefully  drawn,  so  that  the  gall  bladder  i 
uninjured,  and  should  only  he  done  through  the  vent. 

Roast  with  a  brisk  and  clear  fire.  A  capon  will  take  fire-and 
thirty  minutes,  smaller  fowls  a  less  time  in  proportion.     A  turkey  o 


POULTBT.  129 


fimrteen  poands  will  take  two  hours ;  the  time  will  increase  or 
decrease  with  the  weight  The  same  rule  applies  to  geese,  a  laige 
ooe  will  take  an  hour  and  a  half,  chickens  take  half  an  hour,  pigeons 
ten  minutes  less.  It  must  he  understood  that  the  adherence  to  the 
time  "will  depend  on  the  state  of  the  fire,  &c.;  a  slow  fire  will  make  a 
longer  time  necessaiy,  and  at  the  same  time  spoil  the  poultry. 


381. — TO  BONE  birds: 

Begin  to  hone  any  hirds  hy  first  taking  out  the  hreast  bone,  when 
joa  wll  have  sufficient  space  to  remove  die  back  with  a  sharp  knife, 
and  then  the  leg  bones ;  the  skin  must  not  be  broken,  but  the  meat 
of  the  legs  must  be  pushed  inwards. 


382. — TURKEY  ROAST. 

It  is  stofied  with  either  sausage  meat  or  fillet  of  veal  stuffing. 
While  roasting  a  piece  of  paper  should  be  placed  over  the  part 
■tofied,  as  being  bulky  it  will  catch  the  fire  and  become  scorched, 
kst  keep  the  heat  well  to  the  breast,  in  order  that  it  may  be  as  well 
18  the  rest  of  the  bird.  Baste  well,  and  froth  it  up.  Serve 
gnvy  in  the  dish,  and  bread  sauce  in  a  tureen.  To  the  sausage 
if  used*  add  a  few  bread  crumbs  and  a  beaten  egg.  Turkey  is 
stuffed  with  truffles ;  they  are  prepared  thus :  they  must 
Lpeeled,  and  chopped,  and  pounded  in  a  mortar,  in  quantities  of  a 
~  and  a  half  will  be  found  sufficient ;  rasp  the  same  weight  of 
of  baoon,  and  mix  it  with  the  truffles.  Stuff  the  turkey  with  it ; 
•tnflRng  is  usually  placed  in  the  turkey  two  days  previous  to 
— oMng,  it  is  supposed  to  impart  a  flavour  to  the  flesh  of  the  fowl. 
4)ul  thm  slices  of  fat  bacon,  and  place  over  the  breast  of  the  turkey. 
-SecnTB  it  with  half  a  sheet  of  clean  white  paper,  and  roast.  Ghest- 
mts  dressed  in  the  same  fashion  are  found  an  excellent  substitute 
ibr  truffles.     Two  hours  will  roast  it. 


383. — ROAST  TURKEY. 

Staff  it  with  veal  stuffing,  with  or  without  truffles,  if  truffles,  chop 
mod  pomid  some  and  mix  in  the  stuffing,  keeping  all  your  large  ones 
to  be  whole  for  the  body  of  the  turkey,  you  must  keep  them  in  the* 
tnikey  for  two  days ;  chestnuts  should  be  used  raw,  pare  and  pound 
them,  roast  at  a  slow  fire  covered  with  battered  paper. 


884. — TURKEY  BOILED. 

A  hen  bird  is  considered  the  best.  It  may  be  stuffed  with  truffles, 
chestnuts,  or  sausage  meat  Boil  it  in  a  clean  floured  cloth ;  throw 
some  salt  into  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled.  Cover  close,  and 
simmer  for  two  hours,  remove  the  scum  frequently.  White  sauce, 
oar  psrslej  and  batter,  the  latter  is  now  scarcely  ever  brought  to 


180  POOLTST. 


885.— -TURKBY  WITH  BAU8A0fi   MEAT  AXD  T01I«US. 

Bone  the  turkej,  then  fill  the  inside  with  eausage  meat,  widi  or 
withoot  tongae,  if  with  tongue  the  tongne  should  be  bailed  the  day 
before,  cut  off  the  root  and  Up  to  the  length  of  the  tarkay,  if  joa 
have  a  fowl  to  spare,  wrap  the  tongue  in  this  after  it  is  booed,  and 
place  it  in  the  middle  of  the  turkey  surrounded  with  sausage  meat, 
introduce  truffles  if  you  like ;  if  roasted,  a  slow  fire,  and  it  will  take 
a  long  time  to  roast  through ;  if  for  boiling,  cover  it  with  fat  bacon  and 
slices  of  lemon  tied  in  a  cloth,  pour  whatever  sauce  you  propose  over 
the  turkey. 

386. — ^TURKKT  HASHED. 

Cut  up  the  remains  of  a  roasted  turkey,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with 
half  a  gill  of  sherry  wine,  shalots,  truffles,  mushrooms,  chopped 
parsley,  salt,  pepper,  two  spoonfuls  of  cuUis,  and  a  little  stock ;  boil 
half  an  hoar,  and  reduce  to  a  thick  sauce.  When  ready  add  a  pound 
of  anchovies ;  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon.  Skim  the  sauce  firee  from  fiit, 
and  serve  altogether. 

387. — FORCED  TUBKET  OR  FOWJL. 

Take  all  the  bones  from  the  turkey,  fill  it  in  again  with  either  good 
sausage  meat  or  veal  forcemeat,  with  or  without  truffles  as  may  be 
required,  braise  it  in  a  cloth  keeping  it  a  good  shape ;  when  done 
glaze  the  breast  a  good  colour,  use  suver  skewers  to  ornament  with, 
and  any  of  the  sauces  named  or  a  fricandeau  sauce  under  it. 


388. — FORCED   TURKEY  WITH  A  TONOUX. 

Boil  a  tongue  the  day  before,  take  off  the  skin,  and  cut  off  the 
root,  then  place  it  in  the  middle  of  the  boned  turkey,  and  then  cover 
forcemeat  all  round  it,  but  do  not  fill  it  too  full  or  it  wiU  burst  in 

boiling. 


389. — TURKEY  LEGS  BROILED. 

Braise  some  undressed  legs  of  turkey  until  tender,  dip  thmn  in 
melted  butter,  or  dear  salad  oil ;  broil  them  a  fine  brown  colour,  and 
serve  with  a  rhnovlade  sauce. 


890. — TURKEY   k  LA  ROTALE. 

Make  a  mince  with  tongue,  ham,  mushrooms,  and  truffles ;  put  it 
into  a  Spanish  or  brown  sauce.  The  turkey  being  roasted,  dish  it, 
add  a  little  lemon  juice  to  the  mince,  which  pour  into  the  dish,  and 
serve. 


891. — TURKEY  POULT 

8hould  be  roasted  without  stuffing,  it  will  be  done  with  a  clear  fire  io 

twenty  minutes.     Serve  with  bread  or  gravy  sauce. 


POULTRY.  131 


MS.— Tnmr  oibletb  A  la  boxjboeoibb. 

He  giblets  consist  of  pinioos,  feet,  neck,  liver,  and  gizzard; 
solid,  and  pot  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  piece  of  batter,  parsley, 
sqJKopa,  gariic,  thyme,  bay  leaf,  basil,  mushrooms,  and  a  clore  or 
two ;  minsten  with  stock,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  make  it  well 
bat,  tMcken  with  a  little  floor,  and  when  almost  done  add  a  few 
tnniips  fried  ali^tly  in  a  little  batter. 


393. — TO  BOAST   A   GOOSE. 

Ooose  in  itself  is  of  a  strong  rich  flavour,  and  requires  both  nicety 
in  the  cookiqg  as  well  as  in  the  staffing  to  obviate  that  strength  of 
flavoar.  There  are  many  modes  of  stuffing ;  for  one  mode,  take  two 
SMxIeimte  sized  onions  and  boil  them  rapidly  ten  minutes,  then  chop 
Aem  finely,  mince  sage  to  the  quantity  of  half  the  onion,  add  of 
powdered  bread  twice  as  much  as  of  onion,  pepper  and  salt  it,  inti*o- 
dodng  a  little  cayenne,  and  then  bind  it  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an 
egg.  Potatoes  mashed  are  sometimes  introduced,  but  not  frequently 
into  the  body,  they  should  be  mashed  with  floury  potatoes  mixed  with 
cream  and  a  little  fresh  butter  rather  higlily  seasoned  with  cayennft 
tad  salt.  Both  ends  of  the  goose  shonld  be  secured  when  trussed 
thai  the  seasoning  may  not  escape.  It  should  be  roasted  before  a 
qaiek  fire  and  kept  constantly  basted ;  a  piece  of  white  paper  may  be 
placed  over  the  breast  while  roaBting  until  it  rises,  and  tlien  it  may 
be  renoved ;  it  will  take  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  an  hour  and 
time  qnaiters,  serve  with  a  rich  brown  gravy  and  apple  sauce. 

P^Tioas  to  sending  to  table,  a  flavouring  mny  be  made  as  foUows, 
to  a  deaeert^spoonful  of  made  mustard  add  a  quarter  of  a  tea-spoonful 
ci  ecfenne  pepper,  about  the  same  quantity  of  salt,  mix  it  evenly 
widi  a  ^asB  of  port  wine  and  two  glasses  of  rich  gravy,  make  it  hot, 
eat  a  alit  in  the  apron  of  the  goose,  and  pour  it  tlirough  just 
pierionsly  to  serving. 

dl4. ^A  ORSBW  GOOSK 

li  aeUom  or  never  stnffed ;  the  inside  may  be  well  peppered  and 
Mited,  and  it  shoold  be  roasted  before  a  brisk  fire  abont  three 
qoartfln  of  an  hoar;  it  shoold  be  sent  to  taUe  with  no  other  ac- 
ecnopaniment  than  a  good  brown  gravy  and  apple  or  sorrel  sauce. 


305.— -OBEEN  GOOSE,  OR  TOTTKO  AND  OTJ>  OEESE. 

Dneklings  and  green  geese  are  roasted  without  any  stuffing,  but  a 
gooee  requires  stuffing;  boil  some  sage,  and  some  onions,  and  some 
apples,  chop  all  fine  together,  a  little  pepper,  and  salt,  a  little  mus- 
tud,  juice  of  lemon,  a  few  bread  cntmbs,  bind  all  together  \A'ith  a 
little  good  stock,  or  milk,  or  butter ;  apple  sauce  in  a  boat. 


306. — ^TO   BOAST  DT'CKS. 

Docks  shoold  be  well  plucked  witlioot  tearing  the  skin,  all  the 

k2 


132  FOULTBT. 


plugs  being  removed.  Some  cooks  go  so  fiar  as  to ;  skin  the  dock, 
holding  it  a  minute  by  the  feet  in  scalding  water,  that  the  skin  maj 
peel  easier;  clean  the  insides  thoroughly  with  a  little  warm  water,  and 
stuff  them  with  the  same  stuffing  as  for  goose,  using  perhaps  a  little 
more  bread  for  the  sake  of  mildness,  roast  them  before  a  brisk  fire, 
but  not  too  close,  baste  very  frequently,  they  will  take  from  half  aa 
hour  to  an  hour,  much  depends  on  the  age  and  size,  when  the  breast 
plumps  they  will  be  just  done ;  serve  them  with  a  rich  brown  gravy. 


397. — TO   BOIL  DUCKS. 

Clean  and  pluck  them,  let  the  skin  be  preserved  from  rents  while 
plucking,  salt  them  for  about  thirty  hours  previous  to  cooking,  floor 
a  clean  white  cloth  and  boil  them  in  it,  a  moderate  sized  duck  will 
tfiike  about  an  hour*s  boiling,  make  a  rich  onion  sauce  with  milk,  and 
send  it  to  table  with  the  duck.  When  the  duck  is  boiled  fresh  it 
may  be  stuffed  as  for  roasting,  and  served  with  the  same  descriptioii 
of  gravy, 

398. — ^TO   STBW  DUCKS. 

There  is  a  difference  between  a  stewed  duck  and  stewed  duck,  and  it 
is  not  the  a  alone ;  in  the  one  case  the  duck  is  stewed  whole,  and  in 
the  other  in  pieces.  To  stew  a  duck  or  ducks,  they  should  be  stuffed 
and  roasted  for  twenty  minutes,  and  then  placed  in  a  stewpan  with  an 
onion  cut  in  slices,  a  little  sage  and  mint,  and  sweet  herbs  chopped 
fine,  and  about  a  pint  of  good  beef  gravy,  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
salt,  let  it  stew  gently  for  about  twenty  minutes,  take  out  the  duck 
carefully  and  keep  it  warm,  strain  the  gravy,  pour  it  into  a  clean 
stewpan,  and  add  to  it  when  well  heated  the  duck  and  a  quart  of 
green  peas,  let  it  simmer  for  half  an  hour,  if  not  sufficiently  thick 
add  a  Uttle  flour  and  butter,  a  glass  of  good  old  port  wine,  and  send 
to  table,  with  the  peas  in  the  same  dish  as  the  duck. 


399. — 8TBWED  DUCt. 

The  ducks  should  be  cut  into  joints  and  laid  in  a  stewpan  with  a 
pint  of  good  gravy,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  as  the  scum  rises  remove  It: 
season  with  salt  and  cayenne,  let  them  stew  gently  three  quarters  of 
an  hour,  mix  smoothly  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  fine  ground  rice,  with  a 
glass  of  port,  stir  it  into  the  gravy,  let  it  have  seven  or  eight 
minutes  to  amalgamate  with  the  gravy,  dish  and  send  to  table  very 
hot. 


400. — TO  HASH  DUCKS. 

The  same  receipt  may  be  followed  as  for  hashing  fowl  and  game, 
with  the  exception  that  it  will  not  require  so  much  time  to  stew. 

401. — WILD  DUCKS,  OR  TBAL. 

You  must  be  vexy  particular  in  not  roasting  these  birds  too  nraoh; 


POULTRY.  133 


a  dock  about  fifteen  minutes  with  a  good  fire,  baste  them  very  fre- 
quentlj ;  teal  will  of  course  take  less  time,  but  your  fire  and  motion 
of  the  spit  must  be  attended  to,  and  when  you  dish  it,  unless  pre- 
leiTBd  to  be  done  by  the  gentleman  at  the  table,  draw  your  knife  four 
times  down  the  breast ;  have  ready  a  little  hot  butter,  and  juice  of  a 
lemon,  cayenne  pepper,  a  little  dust  of  sugar,  a  glass  of  port  wine, 
pour  it  all  hot,  the  last  minute,  over  your  ducks ;  the  remainder  left 
of  those  birds  the  next  day  makes  excellent  salmi  or  hash,  taking 
care  of  all  the  gravy  that  may  remain. 


402. — ^WILB  DUCKS. 

These  birds  require  clean  plucking  and  clean  washing,  which  may 
be  done  by  pouring  warm  water  through  the  body  after  it  has  been 
diawn ;  half  an  hour  before  a  brisk  fire  will  suffice  to  roast  them,  and 
stuffing  is  not  required.  When  it  is  sent  to  table  the  breast  should 
be  sliced,  and  a  lemon  squeezed  over  it,  the  slices  of  the  breast  and 
the  wings  are  the  only  parts  really  worth  eating  to  a  sensitive  palate, 
the  strong  flavour  of  the  bird  rendering  it  a  dish  only  for  those  with 
peculiar  tastes. 


403. — BOAST   FOWLS. 

If  nicely  trussed,  make  a  stuffing  of  butter  and  some  pepper,  dry. 
Bp  the  butter  with  a  few  bread  crumbs,  baste  it  well,  add  flojSt  and 
HUt  before  you  take  it  from  tlie  fire.  If  approved  of,  stuff  the  fowl 
with  some  good  sausage-meat,  truffles,  or  chesnuts. 


404. ROAST    FOWL. 

Glean  the  fowl  thoroughly,  roast  it  twenty  minutes,  unless  a  very 
fine  one,  and  then  it  will  take  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  serve  with 
bread  sauce,  or  parsley  and  butter,  egg  sauce  is  sometimes  sent  to 
table  with  it. 

If  a  small  lump  of  salt  butter,  well  covered  with  black  pepper,  is 
plaoed  within  the  fowl  previous  to  roasting,  it  \^ill  be  found  to 
inqurove  the  fowl  by  removing  the  dryness  which  is  met  with  in  the 
baok  and  side  bones. 


405. — BOILED    FOWLS. 

Floor  a  white  cloth,  and  put  the  fowls  in  cold  water,  let  them 
simmer  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  serve  with  parsley  and  butter, 
or  oyster  or  celery  sauce.  The  fowls  may  be  covered  with  a  white 
sauce  if  sent  cold  to  table,  garnished  with  coloured  calf  s  foot  jelly  of 
the  hue  of  beetroot. 


406. COLD  FOWLS. 

When,  for  the  purpose  of  convenience,  fowls  are  sent  to  table  cold, 
it  is  modi  better  to  carve  them  in  the  kitchen,  let  it  be  done  with  a 


134  POULTBT. 


short  knife  and  with  precision,  tho  slices  from  the  Inreast  should  be 
well  cut,  and  the  whole  arranged  tastefully  in  the  centre  <^  the  dish, 
a  layer  of  ham  and  tongue  in  alternate  pieces  may  be  kid  round  the 
dish,  and  slices  of  both  in  small  dishes  should  accompany  it  te  table ; 
handsome  sprigs  of  parsley  may  garnish  each  dish. 


407. — FOWLS   WITH   TRUFFLES. 

Kernove  the  skin  from  a  plump  young  fowl,  hone  it  carefully,  then 
slice  some  green  trufiles,  season  them  with  pepper^salt,  and  mace,  to 
taste,  and  stuff  the  fowl  with  them,  tying  it  up  tightly.  Cut  into 
slices  some  fat  bacon,  place  them  in  layers  over  the  fowl,  and  upon 
each  slice  of  bacon  lay  a  thin  sUce  of  lemon,  from  which  the  lind  has 
been  removed.  Put  the  whole  into  a  stewpan,  with  an  oniott  stuck 
"With  two  or  three  cloves,  and  a  carrot,  covering  the  whole  with  water, 
let  it  stew  very  gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  strain,  add  a  cupfiil  of 
good  rich  gravy  with  a  spoonful  of  Harvey *s  or  muahroom  aauoe^  let 
it  simmer  half  an  hour,  and  serve  with  the  fowl  in  the  sauce. 


408. FOWL   BBOILED. 

Separate  the  back  of  the  fowl  and  lay  the  two  sides  open,  skewer 
the  wings  as  for  roasting,  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
broil ;  send  to  table  with  the  inside  of  the  fowl  to  the  sux&ce  of  the 
dish,  serve  mushroom  sauce ;  it  is  an  admirable  breakfast  dish  when 
a  journey  is  to  be  performed. 


409. — FOWL,  ETC.,  HASHED. 

This  receipt  will  serve  for  any  but  the  very  larger  species  of 
poultry  or  game;  joint  them  and  cut  a  cutlet  from  each  side  of  the 
breast,  if  it  has  not  been  eaten  when  previously  dressed,  break  the 
bones  of  the  body  and  put  all  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  of  water,  a 
small  fa&got  of  sweet  herbs,  one  carrot  sliced,  and  an  onion ;  let  it 
stew  an  hour  and  three  quarters,  or  two  hours,  skim  the  fat  fix)m  the 
gravy  as  it  rises,  strain  it,  skim  again,  and  pour  it  into  another  stew- 
pan, thicken  with  a  little  butter  and  flour,  flavour  with  Harvey*8 
sauce,  or  any  sauce  applicable  to  such  a  dish,  a  Httle  pepper  and  salt, 
and  ground  nutmeg,  or  mace  for  seasoning ;  add  the  fowl  and  heat  it 
thoroughly  through  without  permitting  the  hash  to  come  to  a  boil. 
Sippets  of  toasted  or  fried  bread  cut  in  dice  surround  the  dish,  in  the 
centre  of  whidi  the  fowl  is  handsomely  laid. 


410. — TO  ORILL  COLD  FOWLS. 

Trim  the  joints  that  remain,  and  having  dipped  them  in^  clarified 
butter,  spread  over  them  a  coating  of  finely  powdered  bread  crumbs, 
mixed  with  very  finely  ground  nutmeg,  nuice,  cayenne,  and  salt  ir 
small  quantities,  lay  them  upon  a  clean  gridiron  over  a  dear  fire 
broil  gently. 


POULTEY.  135 


411. — GUINEA   FOWL,  BOASTED. 

This  bird  has  very  much  the  flavour  of  a  pheasant,  and  should  be 
aDowed  to  hang  as  long  as  it  can  without  being  too  far  gone';  it  may 
be  then  trussed  and  dressed  as  a  pheasant  or  as  a  turkej.  Serve 
with  a  rich  brown  gravy  and  bread  sauce ;  it  will  take  from  forty-five 
to  fifty  minutes. 

412, — ^FRICASSEE    OF    FOWL. 

The  fowl  must  be  rather  better  than  parboiled ;  this  is  done  best 
liy  placing  it  in  a  jar  instead  of  immediately  into  the  water,  in  the  jar 
should  be  put  a  small  lump  of  butter  roUed  in  flour,  parsley,  an  onion 
sKoed,  and  a  little  salt ;  the  jar  and  its  ingredients  should  be  placed 
in  a  saucepan,  and  when  the  fowl  is  three  parts  done  it  should  be 
taken  out,  drained,  and  dried  with  a  cloth,  and  the  liquor  strained 
and  skimmed;  place  it  in  a  stewpan  with  two  slices  of  ham  of 
moderate  thickness,  add  a  little  butter  and  flour  to  colour;  the  liquor 
from  the  jar  will  serve  to  moisten  it ;  add  a  few  mushrooms,  chopped 
parsley,  a  handful  of  spring  onions  cut  small,  sorrel,  a  bay  leaf,  a 
clove,  and  a  little  seasoning,  let  it  stew,  occasionally  skimming  it 
until  done,  take  away  the  herbs,  thicken  the  sauce  with  cream, 
8({ueeze  in  lemon  juice,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  fowl  when  dished. 
Be  careful  that  it  does  not  boil  while  stewing,  or  the  fowl  will  be 
^oilad. 


418. MADE  DISHES  OF  POULTRY, FOWL  A  LA  PROVENCAL. 

Piartly  roast  the  fowl,  cut  it  up,  detaching  the  wings  and  legs, 
carefully  dividing  side  bones,  neck  bones,  breust,  and  back  in  as 
handsome  pieces  as  possible ;  take  eight  or  ten  large  onions,  which 
cut  in  slices  of  moderate  thickness,  make  in  a  stewpan  a  layer  of  tlie 
alioed  onion  with  some  chopped  parsley,  then  lay  upon  it  some  of  the 
fnrl,  i^ain  a  layer  of  the  onion  and  parsley  until  the  whole  of  the 
toml  and  onion  are  used  ;  place  in  t^fvo  bay  leaves  and  about  as  much 
lah  as  would  fill  a  large  tea-spoon,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  or, 
if  that  is  not  to  the  palate,  substitute  cream ;  it  should  simmer  gently 
mitfl  enough,  and  then  be  dished,  the  onion  in  the  middle;  serve  with 
a  Ettle  sauce. 


414. — FOWL   A.   I^   BECHAMEL. 

If  you  have  had  a  roast  capon  for  the  second  course  the  day  before, 
and  only  a  little  cut  from  the  breast,  take  a  sharp  knife  and  cut 
through  the  breast  bone  down  nearly  to  the  rump,  left  of  the  breast, 
take  off  the  skin  and  cut  it  up  as  you  would  for  pulled  fowl ;  have 
ready  in  a  stewpan  a  little  good  white  sauce,  chopped  parsley,  and 
fihalot,  a  little  piece  of  mushroom  chopped,  boil  all  this  together, 
keeping  it  quite  thick,  scrape  out  anything  remaining  in  the  inside  of 
the  fowl,  after  season  the  emincet  with  lemon  juice,  salt,  and  cayenne 
pepper,  fill  in  the  fowl  imitating  a  whole  fowl,  cover  it  with  bread 


136  FOULTBT. 


^x 


crumbs,  sprinkle  clarified  butter  all  over  the  bread  cmmbe,  butter 
paper  and  tie  round  the  fowl,  put  it  into  the  oven  to  brown  the  top 
and  get  hot  through,  when  done  a  light  brown  take  ofif  the  paper,  and 
put  it  into  your  dish  with  a  good  sauce  under  it. 


[515. — AN  INDIAN   PILAU. 

Truss  a  fowl  as  for  boiling,  pass  it  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven, 
raising  it  up  with  fat  bacon  or  buttered  paper ;  fiy  some  onions,  a 
few  bruised  coriander  seeds,  and  a  few  cardamum  seeds  whole,  frj  a 
nice  light  colour  four  onions  cut  in  slices,  add  to  this  a  gill  or  more 
of  cream,  when  all  fried  in  a  Uttle  butter;  put  in  your  fowl  with  some 
good  veal  stock,  have  ready  some  rice  boiled  in  milk  for  two  minutes, 
skim  it  ofif  and  add  it  to  the  fowl,  frequently  looking  at  it  and  moving 
it  to  keep  it  from  sticking  or  burning,  lot  your  fowl  stew  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  before  you  add  the  rice,  do  not  let  the  rice  get  mashed ; 
season  with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  put  all  the  rice  and  liquor 
round  the  fowl :  you  can  use  rabbits,  or  chickens,  or  quails,  or  veal, 
instead  of  fowl,  the  same  way. 


416. — OBAVT  FOR  A  FOWL  WHEN  THEBE  IS  NO  MEAT  TO 

MAKE   IT   OF. 

'  Nicely  wash  the  feet  of  a  fow],  and  cut  them  and  the  neck  info 
small  pieces,  simmer  them  with  a  little  browned  bread,  a  slice  of 
onions,  a  bit  of  parsley,  and  thjrme,  some  pepper,  and  salt,  and  the 
liver  and  gizzard  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  water,  simmer  them  till 
they  are  r^uced  to  a  half;  take  out  the  liver,  bnii$e  it,  and  strain 
the  liquor  to  it,  then  thicken  it  with  flour,  and  butter,  and  add  a 
tea-spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup. 


417, — BLANC. 

A  mixture  of  salt,  butter,  water,  and  a  slice  of  lemon,  and  as 
follows : — cut  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  also  a  pound  of  fat  bacoBy 
into  slices,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  salt,  and 
pepper,  one'  or  two  onions,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  little  thyme,  bay 
leaf,  and  spice.  When  stewed  enough,  it  should  be  strained 
through  a  tammy  or  hair  sieve.  If  used  for  a  fowl,  the  latter  must 
summer  in  it  about  thirty-five  minutes. 


418. — BLANC. 


Take  half  a  pound  of  beef  fat,  half  a  pound  of  bacon,  a  qnartcf 
of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  two  carrots,  two  onions  cut  in  half,  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  few  bay-leaves,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  some 
salt,  whole  pepper,  and  two  glasses  of  stock,  and  boil  the  whole  for 
some  time,  it  will  be  then  fit  for  use. 


419. CHICKENS  BOILED. 

Care  should  be  taken  to  select  the  chickens  plump  or  they^fonD^a 


POULTBT.  187 

metgre  dish,  thej  should  receive  much  attention  in  the  boUing,  they 
re^fidre  less  time  than  a  foivl,  and  are  sent  to  table  with  white  sauce, 
nd  ganuahed  with  tufts  of  white  broccoli. 


420.— CHICKENS   PULLED. 

Bemove  the  skin  carefully  from  a  cold  chicken,  then  pull  the  flesh 
from  the  bones,  preserving  it  as  whole  as  you  can.  Flour  them  weU, 
fry  them  a  nice  brown  in  fresh  butter ;  draw  them,  and  stew  in  a 
good  gravy  well  seasoned ;  thicken  a  short  time  before  serving  with 
floor  and  butter,  and  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 


421. CURRIED   CHICKENS. 

Lay  the  pieces  of  a  dressed  chicken  into  a  stewpan  with  a  shced 
onion  fried  brown,  a  clove  of  garlic,  and  some  good  white  gravy : 
ammer  till  the  chicken  is  tender,  add  a  spoonful  of  curry  powder, 
floor  robbed  smooth  with  a  lump  of  butter;  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
oeam,  with  a  little  salt,  may  be  added  twenty  minutes  before  serving: 
t^oeeze  a  little  lemon  into  the  dish,  and  put  an  edging  of  rice  round 
tedish. 


422. TO   BRAISE    CHICKENS. 

Bone  the  chickens,  stuff  them  with  forcemeat,  place  in  the  stewpan 
the  bones  and  trimmings,  lay  the  chickens  upon  them  with  a  braise 
cf  sweet  herbs,  onions,  mace  whole,  some  thin  slices  of  bacon,  about 
three  parts  of  a  pint  of  stock,  or,  if  that  is  not  handy,  water,  two 
passes  of  sherry,  the  bacon  should  be  added  last.  Cover  close,  and 
stew  for  two  hours.  Then  take  out  the  chickens,  strain  the  braise, 
lemove  the  fat,  and  boil  the  braise  rapidly  to  a  glaze,  paint  it  over  the 
diickens  with  a  brush  while  the  braise  is  being  boiled;  brown  the 
chickens  before  the  fire,  it  adds  to  their  appearance.  When  glazed, 
flmls  may  be  braised  in  the  same  manner. 


423. — CUTLETS   OF   CHICKEN. 

Bemove  the  skin  of  two  or  three  chickens.  Bone  all  the  joints 
exeept  the  wings,  unless  the  fowl  is  very  fleshy,  and  then  remove 
them  also,  removing  likewise  breast  bones;  flatten  the  flesh,  and 
ipread  over  them  a  seasoning  of  salt,  cayenne,  grated  nutmeg,  and 
mace,  the  salt  being  in  the  greatest  proportion.  Coat  them  with 
batten  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  fry  them  a  nice  brown. 

Have  ready  some  good  brown  gravy  seasoned  and  flavoured  with 
lemon  pickle.  Lay  the  cutlets  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  and  pour 
die  gntvy  over  them. 


424. — FRIED   CHICKEN   A  LA  MAXABAR. 

The  Indian  receipts  for  carving  chicken  are  very  numerous,  we 
the  Mowing.    Cut  op  the  fowl  as  for  a  stew,  removing  the 


138  POULTBT. 


joints  carefally  and  camdng  the  bodj  into  handsome  shapes^  renKyr# 
all  moisture  with  a  clean  drj  cloth,  and  powder  erery  part  with  cony, 
to  which  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  carry  has  heen  added,  fry  k  in  iredi 
butter  a  pale  brown,  cut  into  small  pieces  two  or  three  onions,  and 
fry  in  clear  butter,  sufficient  to  keep  the  pan  from  burning,  be  veiy 
particular  respecting  that,  but  not  more  than  should  be  absorbed  by 
the  onion  after  some  time  frying.  It  is  as  well  here  to  say,  that  as 
onions  are  frequently  used  in  the  cunied  poultry  by  the  Indxui  eooka^ 
they  employ  the  following  method.  When  to  be  cut  small  they  sliee 
the  onions  and  then  separate  them  into  rings,  cutting  these  zingp  into 
the  sizes  they  may  require,  which,  if  a  little  more  labour,  yet 
presents  a  better  appearance;  when  they  are  fried  sufficiently  to  have 
absorbed  tlie  grease  in  the  pan  without  in  any  degree  having  been 
burned,  spread  them  over  the  chicken  and  serve;  a  whole  lemon 
should  be  sent  to  table  with  them. 


425. — PIGEONS   BOASTED. 

Yeal  slHiffiiig  for  pigeons ;  it  improves  the  flavour ;  they  must  be 
fresh  and  well  cleaned;  butter  and  parsley  may  be  served  witk  then^ 
but  parsley  alone  as  a  stuffing,  though  frequently  used,  is  by  no  meaai 
so  palatable  as  the  veal  stuffing,,  or  one  made  with  veal,  the  fat  of 
bacon,  and  the  crumb  of  bread  soaked  in  milk  and  well  seasoned. 
They  are  sometimes  stuffed  with  truffles,  or  chestnut  and  bacon  as 
turkey,  covered  with  thin  slices  of  fat  baccm  enwraj^ped  in  vine  lesves 
instead  of  paper.  They  receive  a  fine  flavour,  but  are  they  worth  so 
much  trouble  ? 


426. — BOASTED    PIGEONS. 

Let  your  pigeons  be  picked  clean  and  washed,  then  stofiT  the  whole 
inside  of  the  pige(m  with  fine  veal  stuffing  if  preferred,  if  not,  merely 
a  few  bread  crumbs  and  parsley,  pepper  and  salt. 


427. — Pia£OM&-*BBOILED. 

Split  the  backs,  season  them  highly,  lay  them  over  a  clear  brisk 
fire,  serve  with  mushroom  sauce. 


45^8. PIGEONS    AS   WOODCOCKS. 


Toast  some  bread  as  for  woodcocks,  butter  it,  and  drt^  a  few  drops 
of  essence  of  anchovies  on  the  butter,  spread  it  all  over  the  toestt 
then  put  the  toast  under  the  pigeons  wliile  roasting. 


429. — PIGEONS    STEWED. 

Take  a  white  cabbage,  cut  it  as  for  pickling,  rince  it  in  clear  cold 
water,  drain  it  well,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  equal  quantities  of 
milk  and  water,  boil  it,  stndn  off  the  milk  and  take  a  portion  of  the 
cabbftge  and  lay  it  in  astewpan;  soekthe  pigeons  Ihr  Inlf  an  hear  in 


POULTKT,  139 


coLd  milk  and  water»  seaacm  them  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  adding 
a  little  cayenne ;  place  them  in  the  stewpan  with  the  cabbage,  coyer 
them  orer  with  what  remains,  add  some  white  broth,  stew  slowly 
mitii  the  pigeons  are  tender,  thicken  with  a  little  cream,  flour,  and 
battel;  let  it  boil,  and  serve  up  the  pigeon  with  a  puree  of  the  cabbage. 


430. — PIGEONS — LARDED  AND  BRAISED. 

They  require  some  skill  as  well  as  trouble,  but  they  may  be 
dressed  exactly  in  the  same  manner  as  chickens,  glaze  them,  and 
send  them  to  table  with  mushroom  sauce. 


431.— FILLETS  OF  PIGEONS. 

To  each  fillet  leave  the  wing  bone  on,  flatten  them  with  your 
beater,  you  can  take  the  bone  out  of  the  leg,  take  ofl*  the  skin,  and 
&rai  them  the  shape  of  the  fillets,  and  use  them  between,  or  leave  the 
ddn  on,  and  fill  in  the  leg  with  a  little  forcemeat,  then  saute  them 
oC  take  them  up,  and  press  them  until  cold;  you  can  dish  those 
themately  with  your  fillets  or  cutlets,  if  you  wish  cutlets,  you  must 
bread  crumb  them,  as  you  \sill  find  veal  cutlets  are  done,  if  garnish 
and  ornamental  work  is  liked,  put  a  small  cut  truffle  on  the  bone  of 
ttch  cutlet,  and  where  there  is  no  bone  put  a  little  skewer  in  for  a 
Done. 


432.— COMPETE  OF  PIGEONS. 

Blanch  four  pigeons,  then  stuff  them,  place  them  in  a  stewpan, 

Sit  in  an  onion,  a  slice  of  lemon,  and  a  small  handful  of  mushrooms, 
y  over  them  slices  of  fat  bacon,  add  half  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  and 
ilBir  gently  until  the  pigeons  are  tender;  take  them  out  of  the 
ysfy,  and  keep  them  hot,  strain  off  the  gravy,  skim  it  clear,  then 
tUdken  with  half  a  spoonful  of  flour,  and  a  lump  of  butter,  the  size  of 
a  small  walnut ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  cayenne,  a  few 
iRcemeat  balls  may  be  added  at  pleasure,  pour  half  into  the  dish  with 
the  pigeons,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  tureen. 


438. — PIGEONS  IN  JELLT. 

Make  some  jelly  of  calfs  foot,  or  if  you  have  the  liquor  in  which 
a  knuckle  of  veal  has  been  boiled,  it  will  answer  the  same  purpose ; 
place  it  in  a  stewpan  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  blade  of  mace, 
while  pepper,  a  slice  of  lean  bacon,  some  lemon  peel,  and  the  pigeons, 
which,  being  trussed  and  their  necks  propped  up  to  make  them 
appear  natural,  season  to  your  palate.  Bake  them ;  wben  tbcy  are 
ma  lemore  them  from  the  liquor,  but  keep  them  covered  close,  that 
Ihflir  cc4our  may  be  preserved.  Remove  the  fat,  boil  the  whites  of  a 
oamfle  ai  eggs  with  the  jelly  to  clear  it,  and  strain  it ;  this  is  usually 
tea  hf  dippt*"*  a  oloth  into  boiling  water,  and  straining  it  through 
il^  ia  it  prave  anything  like  scum  or  dirt  sweeping  through  the 
--^*  Ptti  uie  jally  rough  oTer  and  round  the  pigeons. 


140  POULTRY. 


434, — PIGEONS  OR  ANT  BIRD    IN   ASPIC  JBLL7. 

Qet  three  pieeons,  take  out  the  bones,  learing  on  the  nedc  and 
head,  fill  the  birds  with  some  forcemeat,  making  them  the  shape  of 
the  bird,  coyer  them  with  hi  bacon,  put  them  on  a  dish,  place  them 
in  the  oven  until  done,  take  them  out  to  get  cold,  haye  ready  some 
yeiy  light  coloured  aspic  jellj,  either  chop  your  jelly  round  them  on 
the  dish  or  in  a  moula,  if  in  a  mould  place  the  breast  downwards,  let 
the  jelly  be  quite  cold  and  beginning  to  set  before  you  poor  it  in, 
but  if  you  intend  to  ornament  your  mould  do  it  with  green,  red, 
and  white  deyices,  with  what  may  then  be  in  season;  radishes, 
whites  of  hard  ^gs,  cucumbers,  French  beans,  truffles,  and  anj^  other 
eatable  and  whol^me  thing,  neyer  use  any  thing  that  is  injurious  to 
health;  set  it  to  get  stiff,  turn  out  with  warm  water. 


436. — TO  POT  PIGEONS. 

Season  them  well  with  pepper,  cayenne,  a  little  mace,  and  salt,  pack 
them  closely  in  a  pan,  cover  them  with  butter^^and  bake  them ;  let 
them  set  cold,  then  take  off  the  fat,  put  the  pigeons  into  pots,  pour 
melted  butter  over  them. 


486.— WOOD  PIGEONS 

May  be  dressed  exactly  as  tame  pigeons,  save  that  they  require 
rather  less  time  in  the  cooking,  and  the  gravy  or  sauces  should  be 
richer  and  of  a  higher  flavour. 


437. — CHESTNUT   STUFFING   FOR  PIGEONS. 

Blanch  some  chestnuts,  then  pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  a  small 
quantity  of  scraped  fat  bacon,  a  dust  of  sugar,  pepper,  and  salt,  and 
a  few  bread  crumbs,  then  stuff  the  pigeons,  covering  them  with  vine 
leaves. 


438. — LABKS. 

Be  very  particular  in  roasting  these  birds ;  melt  a  little  butter,  add 
to  it  a  yolk  of  egg,  and  with  your  paste  brush  egg  all  over  them,  and 
then  bread  crumb  them,  wlule  roasting  frequently  baste  them  and 
flour  them,  and  before  you  take  them  up  flour  and  salt  them ;  send 
them  up  with  some  brown  bread  crumbs. 


439. — LARKS. 

These  nice  little  birds  are  in  season  in  November;  when  they  ars 
cleaned,  gutted,  and  picked,  truss  them,  then  do  them  over  with  jolk 
of  egg,  and  then  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs,  spit  them  on  a  lark  spit, 
and  then  fasten  them  on  to  a  larger  one ;  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  ars 
enough  to  roast  them  in  before  a  quick  fixe.  Whilst  they  are  roasting 
baste  them  with  firesh  butter,  and  sprinkle  them  with  bread  crumbs 


till  they  are  well  covered  with  them,  by  some  grated  bread  in  butter. 
«et  it  to  drain  before  the  fire  that  it  maj  harden,  serve  the  crombs 
in  the  diah  under  the  larks,  and  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 

440. — I.&BEB — ^TO  BOAST. 

I^rd  and  cover  them  with  bacon,  or  jou  may  only  cover  one  half 
with  bacon  and  lard  the  other,  roast  them,  leave  under  them  toasted 
\>nad  to  receive  all  that  falls,  leave  in  the  trails  for  a  side  dish,  they 
m^  be  served  np  a  variety  of  ways. 

4  4 1 . — WHEATS  ABS. 

Yon  n-ill  dress  these  the  same  as  larks,  taking  about  fifteen 


CHAPTEE  IX. 

OA]at,src. 


442.— TKHB 

"  The  observed  of  all  obeervera,"  when  venison  Epicureans  sit  at 
table;  it  is  a  joint,  if  properl;  kept,  properlj  cooked,  and  serred  hot, 
which  must  prove  delicious  to  the  pcdate.  It  ahould  always  hang  a 
considerable  length  of  tirae,  the  delicacj  of  its  fluvonr  is  obtained  by 
hanging  only,  if  it  l>e  crooked  while  fresh,  it  will  not  equal  in  any 
respect  a  haunch  of  mutton. 

The  haunch  of  venison,  when  about  to  be  roasted,  should  be  washed 
in  warm  milk  and  water,  and  dried  with  a  clean  cloth ;  if  it  has  hui^ 
very  long  anil  the  skin  gmells  musty,  it  will  be  the  safest  plan  to 
remove  the  skin  and  wrap  the  whole  of  the  haunch  in  paper  well 
greased  with  fresh  butter;  dating  the  time  it  ia  at  the  fire,  do 


GAME,  XTO.  143 

H  be  afiradd  of  basting  it  too  orach,  it  will  require  all  the  cook  is 
kfily  to  give  it ;  if  it  be  a  bock  haundi  aad  laxge  it  viU  take  nearil j 
or  hoara  within  five  or  ten  minutes ;  if  comparatavelj  small,  thi^e 
mrs  and  a  half  will  suffice;  if  a  doe  haunch,  three  hours  and  a 
laiter  will  be  enough.  Kemove  the  paper  ^en  it  is  done  enough, 
^edge  quickly  with  flour  to  produce  a  froth.  Dish  it  and  serve,  let 
ere  be  nothing  with  it  in  the  dish ;  but  the  gravy  should  be  sent  to 
Ue  in  its  proper  dish,  accompanied  by  currant  jelly.  The  haunch 
not  unfrequently  roasted  in  a  paste,  which  in  its  turn  is  enclosed 
paper,  removed  when  the  joint  is  nearly  cooked.  The  above  is  the 
tnplest  and  not  the  least  palatable  mode  of  sending  it  to  table. 

44S. — TO  DRESS   VENISON. 

All  venison  for  roasting  should  have  a  paste  made  of  lard  over  it ; 
Iter  fix8t  having  papered  the  meat  with  buttered  paper,  then  your 
iff  paste  upon  the  top  of  thati.  either  dangle  it  or  put  it  in  a  cradle 
Ht ;  a  few  minutes  before  you  require  to  take  it  up  take  off  the 
wte  mod  paper,  basto  it  with  some  butter,  salt  it  and  flour  it,  when 
me  give  it  a  few  more  turns  round,  send  it  up  very  hot ;  your  dish 
id  giavj  to  be  very  hot  also ;  any  dry  pieces  and  the  shank  you  will 
ifl  down  with  a  little  brown  stock  for  the  gravy ;  send  currant  jelly 
L  a  boat,  and  French  beans  in  a  vegetable  dish. 


444.^-TO  HASH  VENISON. 

Otffe  jour  venison  into  slices,  let  them  be  thin,  and  put  them  in 
l>g«pau  with  two  small  glasses  of  port  wine,  add  a  spoonful  of 
wwbIiw,  one  of  ketohup,  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  and  half  an  an- 
MMJ  caopped  small,  let  it  boil,  then  put  in  your  venison,  make  it 
lomi^y  hot  through.  Lay  sippets  of  toast,  in  various  shapes  in  a 
mp  dish,  pour  the  hash  upon  it,  and  serve  with  cuirsnt  jelly. 


445. — ^HASHED  VENISON. 

Cut  and  trim  some  nice  thin  slices  of  venison,  fat  and  lean,  have  a 
ioe  brown  sauce  made  from  the  bones  in  scrag  of  the  venison,  put 
)e  meat  you  have  cut  into  this  sauce  with  the  gravy  that  has  run 
ttn  tlie  venison,  and  a  glass  of  port  wine.  Gut  up  some  of  the 
ift  mte  pieces  an  inch  ^ck,  put  the  fat  in  a  stowpan,  and  some 
^  ttoek  upon  them ;  when  you  have  dished  up  your  hash,  which 
httild  be  in  a  hot  water  dish  witli  a  holey  spocm,  take  out  the  fat, 
^  ifrinkle  it  all  over  the  hash ;  send  up  currant  jelly. 


446. — A  SHOULDER  OF  VENISON — STEWED. 

If  JOQ  should  have  a  very  lean  shoulder  stew  it  in  preference  to 
^Ming ;  bone  it,  cover  it  with  slices  of  mutton  fat,  which  sometimes 
KB  &st  steeped  in  port  to  give  a  richer  flavour,  roll  it  up  and  bind  it 
|{My.    Imj  it  in  a  stewpan  with  a  quantity  of  beef  gimvy,  and  the 


144  GAME,  ETC. 


bones  you  have  taken  from  the  venison,  add  two  glasses  of  fori,  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  whole  pepper,  and  the  same  quantity  of  all-spiee. 
Cover  down  closely,  and  simmer  until  the  venison  is  tender,  take  it 
out  and  remove  the  fat,  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  and  butter,  and 
strain  it  over  the  meat 


447. — 19ECK  AND  SHOULDER  OF  YBNISON. 

These  joints,  or  as  together  they  may  be  termed  the  haunch  joint, 
may  be  dressed  exactly  like  the  haunch,  covered  with  a  thin  paste, 
and  greased  paper  over  that,  it  will  take  two  hours  and  a  half,  or 
very  large,  three  hours ;  it  should  be  served  up  with  venison  sauoe. 


448. — ^TO  DBESS  A  FAWN  OB  KID. 

They  should  be  dressed  as  quickly  after  being  killed  as  it  is  con> 
venient.  If  they  are  full  grovm  they  should  be  roasted  in  quarten, 
but  if  very  young  may  be  dressed,  trussed,  and  stuffed  exactly  as  a 
hare;  the  quarters  will  be  improved  in  flavour  when  the  &wn  k 
full  grown,  if  they  are  covered  with  fat  bacon,  and  basted  as  ventsott; 
serve  venison  sauce  with  it. 


449. PHEASANTS. 

Pheasants  are  rarely  stuffed,  it  is  more  customary  to  send  them  lo 
table  accompanied  by  forcemeat  in  the  dish,  in  many  cases  with  the 
.simple  gravy  only ;  the  real  Epicurean  in  game  prefers  the  flavour 
of  the  bird  uncontaminated  by  any  accessories  save  those  which  just 
assist  to  remove  the  dxyness  common  to  most  game.  Pheasants  are 
sometimes  larded,  but  as  the  flarour  is  entirely  disguised  by  the 
taste  of  the  bacon,  incorporated  with  the  flesh  of  the  fowl,  unless  it  is 
done  more  for  appearance  than  palate,  we  would  not  advise  it. 

In  dressing  the  pheasant  it  should  be  drawn  and  cleaned  as  other 
game  and  trussed,  should  be  roasted  before  a  clear,  not  a  fierce  fire, 
and  will  take  forty  minutes,  it  must  not  be  done  too  much,  but  must 
not  on  any  account  be  sent  to  table  underdone. 


450. — PHEASANTS 

May  be,  and  are  oftener,  plain  roasted  than  not,  but  very  frequentl{y 
larded,  and  if  two  are  served  in  a  dish,  have  one  larded;  but  when 
stuffed,  by  some,  larding  is  most  approved.  Mince  very  [fine  some 
raw  veal  with  a  small  quantity  of  fat  bacon  with  a  few  bread  crumbs, 
pepper  and  salt,  with  this  stuff  your  birds,  baste  frequently,  and 
flour  and  salt  them  before  you  take  them  up. 

To  any  game  of  this  kind  you  may  introduce  either  chestnut  stuff- 
ing or  truffles,  the  truffles  only  to  be  cut  in  slices  or  put  in  whole. 


451. — ^PHEASANT — ^BOIUSD. 

The  pheasant  should  be  stuffed  with  veal  stuffing,  and  trussai 


QAHE,  £Ta  140 


the  same  manner  in  ivhich  a  turkey  is  for  boiling.  It  should  be  put 
ioto  hot  water,  and  should  be  boiled  from  fiftj  minutes  to  an  hour. 
The  same  sauces  recommended  for  a  boiled  turkey,  will  also  be  suit* 
able  for  a  boiled  pheasant. 

452. ^BLACK  COCK — ^BOASTED. 

The  birds  should  be  hung  until  very  high,  they  should  be  carefully 
plucked  that  the  skin  may  be  as  little  abrased  as  possible,  drawn, 
washed,  and  wiped  with  a  clean  doth;  truss  as  pheasants,  baste  with 
batter,  roast  forty  to  fifty  minutes,  serve  on  a  toast ;  brown  gravy 
may  be  sent  to  table  with  them.  Grey  hen  is  cooked  in  the  same 
manner. 


453. PARTRIDGES 

Are  cooked  as  pheasants ;  they  should  not  be  stuffed,  grate  bread 
emmbs  into  a  shallow  dish,  place  them  before  the  lire  to  brown, 
shaking  them  occasionally  and  send  them  to  table  with  the  birds; 
partridges  may  be  stuffed  with  truffles  and  bacon. 


454. — PARTRIDGES. 

Boast  as  before,  not  forgetting  to  baste  thorn  frequently ;  and,  if 
mqcdred,  stuff  them  with  any  of  the  former  farces,  but  you  may  at  all 
times  use  bacon  and  vine  leaves  on  the  breasts. 


455. PARTRIDGE — BOILED, 

Should  be  treated  as  boiled  pheasant,  stuffed,  trussed,  put  into  boiling 
vsfter,  and  if  a  small  one  will  be  done  in  ten  minutes,  if  large  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour.     Black  partridges  are  considered  most  fit  to  boil. 


456. PARTRIDGE HBOILED. 

Let  the  partridge  hang  until  longer  would  make  it  offensive,  split 
it,  and  take  a  soft  clean  cloth  and  remove  all  the  moisture  inside  and 
oat;  lay  it  upon  a  gridiron  over  a  very  clear  fire;  spread  a  little 
salt  and  cayenne  over  it.  When  it  is  done,  which  will  be  in  twenty 
■miites,  rub  a  little  butter  over  it,  and  seud  it  to  table  with  mush- 
foomsanoe. 


457 PARTRIDGES   STEWED. 

]Butridges  are  differently  trussed  for  stewing  to  what  they  are  for 
nastiDg,  the  wings  are  fixed  over  the  back,  and  the  legs  skewered. 
Take  a  piece  of  bacon,  and  put  it  with  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  a 
itewpan ;  fry  it  brown,  put  in  the  partridges  so  that  the  bacon  covers 
the  breast,  let  them  be  very  brown  :  add  half  a  pint  of  gravy.  Boil 
a  cabbage,  so  that  it  is  ready  by  the  time  the  partridges  are  fried 
hown,  oiop  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  lump  of  butter.    Add.  it 

L 


146  GAME,  BTC. 

with  the  gravy  to  the  partridges,  stew  slowly  for  an  hoar ;  wbea 
dishing,  place  the  bacon  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  li^  the  parlridget 
upon  it,  and  make  a  wall  of  the  cabbage  round.  While  stewing,  ton 

the  partridges  often. 

458.-*^nou8£,  OR  moob  qjlme. 

You  may  use  bacon  on  the  breast.     Dish  them  on  fried  or  toflited 
bread  well  buttered,  if  toast,  bread  sauce  in  a  boat 


459. — ^TO  ROAST  GROUSE. 

Dress  the  birds  as  above,  serve  on  a  toast,  they  will  require  twenty 
minutes  less  than  black  cock  in  roasting. 

When  they  are  sent  to  table  without  the  toast,  ser\'e  with  fried 
bread  crumbs  and  bread  sauce,  or  brown  gravy  instead  of  the^bread 
crumbs. 


460. — ^HARES. 

A  hare  is  nothing  if  not  well  hung  and  well  cooked ;  a  ban  nrail 
be  hung  very  long  indeed  to  be  hung  too  long.  It  is  better  for  not 
being  paunched  for  a  few  days,  unless  the  weather  is  warm  and  maggji 
in  no  case  is  it  advisable  to  paunch  it  when  first  killed.  Keep^e 
inside  wiped  dry  and  well  peppered.  If  the  hare  is  very  old  Bodk  it 
a  couple  of  hours  in  water  and  vinegar,  then  wa^  it  in  clean  hlBi* 
warm  water  to  take  away  the  acid  flavour  which  might  be  eoBUBnai* 
catcd  by  the  vinegar,  put  in  the  belly  plenty  of  stuffing,  well  seasoned ; 
hang  the  hare  some  distance  from  the  fire,  it  should  be  roasted  gra- 
dually, because,  being  of  a  very  dry  and  hard  nature,  it  requires 
being  thoroughly  done,  and  yet  not  dried  up. 

It  should  be  sent  to  table  with  a  good  gravy  in  the  dish,  or  mehed 
butter,  in  both  cases  gravy  should  accompany  it  when  served,  and 
also  tJiurant  jelly. 

The  stuffing  is  composed  of  the  liver,  scalded  and  minced,  sweet 
herbs,  parsley,  bread  crumbs,  and  suet,  seasoned  to  the  taste. 

461. — BTUPFIWO   FOR  A   HARE. 

After  having  either  scraped  or  scalded  the  liver,  scrape  some  foC 
bacon,  a  little  suet,  some  parsley,  thyme,  knotted- marjoram,  a  little 
shalot,  a  few  crumbs  of  bread,  pepper  and  salt,  a  few  grains  of  nut- 
meg, beat  it  all  well  in  a  mortar  with  one  egg,  if  your  hare  is  booed 
it  will  take  more. 

You  can  dress  a  boned  hare  two  ways,  either  taking  each  bone  oat 
but  the  head,  and  the  point  of  the  tail,  but  this  voll  not  keep  m 
good  a  shape  as  if  you  only  took  out  the  back  and  rib  bonesi  leaving 
the  shoulders  and  legs  on;  this  way,  when  stuffed,  wiU  keep  its 
shape  best. 

462. — JUGGED  HARE. 

Mis.  Glass  has  made  the  oft-quoted  remark,  ''first  caloh  your 


GAME,   ETG.  147 


hare ;"  I  saj,  only,  as  hares  are  easily  procurable,  that  if  an  old 
large  hare  be  obtained,  so  much  the  better.  When  thoroughly 
deaned,  cut  it  in  pieces,  not  losing  any  blood  that  may  appear,  place 
them  in  the  bottom  of  ajar  with  sweet  herbs,  an  onion,  and  a  little 
water,  cover  the  top  of  the  jar  down  close,  so  that  the  steam  cannot 
escape  freely,  place  it  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water,  leaving  the  mouth 
of  the  jar  uncovered  by  the  water,  which  must  not  be  suffered  to 
stop  boiling,  stew  four  hours,  remove  whatever  fat  may  have  accumu- 
lated, thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  flavour  with  a  glass  of  Port 
wine. 


463.^-JUGG£D  HABE. 

If  the  hare  has  not  been  completely  roasted  it  will  be  the  better 
ioi  the  jugging,  cut  it  into  joints,  and  with  a  seasoning  composed  of 
salt*  pepper,  cayenne,  a  little  ground  allspice,  and  a  Uttle  mace. 
Coat  all  the  pieces  well,  lay  them  in  a  stone  jar,  put  in  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  cut  thin,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion  stuck  with  four  or 
^wt  cloves,  twelve  or  fourteen  ounces  of  gravy  beef,  and  the  bones  of 
the  body  of  the  hare,  the  last  of  all  pour  in  three  parts  of  a  pint  of 
water,  two  glasses  of  good  old  port  wine,  and  tie  over  the  neck  of 
the  jar  closely. 

Put  it  up  to  the  neck  of  the  jar  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water,  keep  the  water  boiling,  and  be  careful  it  does  not  stop  boiling 
for  three  hours,  at  the  expiration  of  that  time  take  it  out  of  the  water, 
off  the  gravy,  clear  all  the  fat  off  carefully,  thicken  it,  and 
it  very  hot  in  a  deep  dish. 

The  jar  may  be  baked  in  an  oven  instead  of  being  put  in  boiling 
water,  in  that  case  in  an  hour  and  a  half  it  may  be  taken  out,  and 
the  gravy  strained  off. 

In  some  parts  of  the  country  ale  is  put  into  the  jar  instead  of 
water,  and  two  or  three  slices  of  lean  bacon.  Where  that  is  done  it 
it  Qsoal  to  cut  a  few  sHces  of  bacon  thin,  and  toast  them  before  a 
brisk  fire,  and  lay  them  curled  around^  tlie  sides  of  the  dish  when 
it  is  aenred. 


404. — ^ANOTHER  WAT. 

Cut  up  the  hare  as  above,  lay  the  pieces  in  a  steAvpan,  put  in  a  few 
doves,  allspice  (whole),  two  onions,  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  a 
i^ggot  of  sweet  herbs,  some  suit,  black  pepper,  and  cayenne,  pour  in 
SHoagfa  cold  water  to  cover  it.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  skim  it,  and 
Ist  it  simmer  until  the  hare  becomes  tender,  stmin  off  the  gravy, 
thicken  it,  pour  in  a  glass  of  port  wine,  and  having  laid  the  hare  in  a 
deep  dish,  pour  the  gravy  over  it  and  serve. 

A  few  forcemeat  balls  may  be  put  in  the  dish  with  it. 


405. — ABASHED  HARE. 

Cot  op  the  hare  into  small  pieces,  season  it  well,  flour  it,  put  it 
into  m  good  gravy,  all  that  may  be  left  from  that  which  was  sent  to 

L  2 


148  GAME,  ETC. 


table  with  it  when  roasted,  put  in  the  stuffing,  let  it  simmer  half  an 
hour,  thicken  the  gravy,  add  a  glass  of  old  port,  and  serve. 


466. FILLETS  OF  HABE. 

Take  off  the  fillets  close  to  the  bone,  cut  off  the  back  skin:  if  to  be 
marinaded,  lay  them  all  night  in  a  good  marinade,  see  Beef  k  la  Man 
node ;  if  not,  flatten  them,  and  lard  them  with  bacon,  and  braise  them; 
serve  with  any  sauce  most  preferred;  the  legs  and  shoulders  will  make 
a  leveret  of  hare  jugged  hare. 

467. — SENIT  OF  HARE. 

The  remainder  of  a  hare  left  from  a  former  day,  cut  it  up  in  nice, 
even,  and  small  pieces;  the  turnips  boiled  down  for  stock,  with  a  faggot 
of  herbs,  a  blade  of  mace,  three  or  four  cloves,  a  piece  of  lean  bacon 
or  ham,  when  you  have  got  all  the  flavour  out  strain  it  through  a 
sieve  into  anodber  stewpan,  put  in  your  pieces  you  have  trimmed 
with  twelve  button  onions  pared,  and  a  little  port  wine;  boil  half  an 
.hour  gently,  then  thicken  it,  make  a  rim  three  inches  hig^  of  rolled 
pie  paste  into  a  shape,  bake  it  in  the  dish  in  a  slow  oven,  egg  it  "first; 
put,  when  required,  the  ham  and  sauce  into  the  rim. 

468. HARES  AND  LIVERET8. 

Be  sure  your  hare  has  been  killed  some  time,  unless  a  conned  one, 
wliich  will  be  more  tender,  stuff  it  with  a  good  veal  stuffing,  do  not 
forget  to  scrape  the  liver  and  add  it  to  the  stuffing,  a  slow  fire  wiD 
do  it  Baste  it  frequently,  or  add  fat  bacon  all  over  the  back,  well 
floured,  and  a  little  salt  the  last  thing,  pour  good  gravy  and  melted 
butter  in  the  dish,  and  burnt  jelly  in  the  boat. 

469. HARE — POTTED. 

Cut  it  Up  in  pieces,  sufficiently  small  to  go  into  a  jar,  put  in 
several  slices  of  butter,  bake  it,  and  when^  quite  tender,  take  it  out; 
cover  it  with  plenty  of  seasoning,  composed  of  cayenne,  salt,  att* 
spice,  and  mace ;  beat  it  well  in  a  mortar  with  fresh  butter  and  some 
l^ravy,  lay  it  into  pots  and  cover  it  with  clarifled  butter. 

THE   ORTOLAN. 

The  Ortolan  is  essentially  a  pet  bird  with  the  gowrvMt,  The 
present  is  by  no  means  an  inopportune  moment  for  sketching  the 
natural  economy  and  cuisine  of  these  **  lumps  of  celestial  fatne^,"  as 
;they^have  been  fondly  called  by  epicures. 

The  Ortolan  is  a  species  of  FringiUidtD :  it  is  the  Hortulamu  of 
Gesner  and  others ;  Miliaria  pinguescens  of  Frisch ;  Emberirm 
hortuiana  of  Linn(BU5l ;  Ortolano  of  the  Italians  generally ;  Tordino 
herhvccio  of  the  Venetians;  Garten  Ammer  and  Feltamer  of  the 
Germans ;  and  Gersie  Kneu  of  the  Netherlanders.  Willoughby  writee 
the  name  Hortulane ;  and  Montague  terms  it .  the  Greenheadei 
Jiunting. 


OAMK,  ETC, 


The  French  liavc  a  fanciful  derivation  of  the  name :  titej  sa.\  it  u 
from  the  Itdiaii  word  for  gardener,  which  is  from  Uie  Latin  hortus 
(pvden) ;  because,  according  to  Manage,  in  Italj,  where  the  bird  in 
rammon,  it  is  quite  at  home  in  the  hedges  of  gardens. 

The  mole  bird  has  the  throat,  a  circle  round  the  e  jes,  and  a  nsnow 
band  springing  from  the  angle  of  tlie  bill,  yellow ;  these  two  yellow 
places  being  separated  by  a  Lluckish  grey  da:ih :  head  and  neck  grej. 
mill  ■  tinge  of  oHve,  and  small  brown  spots  ;  feathers  of  the  upper 
puts!  reddish  on  their  edges,  and  block  in  the  middle ;  breaat,  belly, 
atd abdomen  reddiah  bay;  feathers  terminating  with  ash-colour ;  ttul 
MiCkioh.  a  considerable  portion  of  the  two  external  feathers  white  on 
Aeir  internal  barbs;  hill  and  feet  inclining  to  flesh-colour;  Iris, 
trtnrn ;  length,  rather  more  than  six  inches.  The  female  is  generally 
Mt  ao  deep  in  colour  as  the  male,  and  the  breast,  head,  and  neck  arc 
■aiked  with  brown  spots.  There  are  also  varieties  marked  white, 
paen,  blackish,  and  entirely  black. 

The  Ortolan  is  not  &med  for  its  xoug,  wliich  is,  however,  soft  and 
Msec  Like  the  nightingale,  with  which  it  lias  also  other  points  of 
Memblaace,  the  Ortolan  sings  after  as  well  as  before  sunset ;  and  it 
na  this  bird  that  Varro  called  his  companion  by  night  and  day. 

Oitolans  are  solitary  birds :  they  fly  in  pairs,  rarely  three  together, 
■d  Barer  in  Socks.  The;  are  taken  in  traps,  from  March  or  April 
ti  September,  when  they  are  often  poor  and  thin;  but.  if  fed  witli 
■hstyof  millet«eed  and  other  grain,  they  become  sheer  lumps  of  fat. 
■d  delicious  morsels.  They  are  fattened  thus  in  large  establish- 
Marti  in  the  soath  of  Europe ;  and  Mr.  Oould  states  this  to  be 
(ftrted  in  Italy  and  the  south  of  France  in  a  dark  room. 


150  GAME,   ETC. 


The  Ortolan  is  considered  sufficientlj  fat  when  it  is  a  handful ;  and 
is  judged  by  feeling  it,  and  not  by  appearance.  They  should  not  be 
killed  with  violence,  like  other  birds ;  this  might  crush  and  bruise  the 
delicate  flesh,  wmA  Wfoil  the  coup  d^ail — to  avoid  which,  the  best  mode 
is  to  plunge  dM  heal  of  the  Ortolan  into  a  glass  of  brandy. 

Having  pickei  tkm  Mnd  of  its  feathers,  singe  it  with  the  flame  of 
paper  or  spirit  of  mae;  «iift«ff  the  beak,  and  ends  of  the  feet ;  do  not 
draw  it ;  put  it  into  a  fafer  eaie  aoaked  in  olive  otU  and  broil  it  over 
a  slow  fire.  It  will  not  refBntaadiafire  as  woM  do  a  steak;  slack 
cinders,  like  those  lor  a  pigeon  ^  la  tnuMudine,  being  sufficient ;  in  a 
few  minutes  the  Ortolan  wiQ  swim  m  hm  own  fieit  and  will  be  cooked. 
Some  gourmands  wrap  each  bivd  in  m  fine  leaf.  Ortolans  are  packed 
in  tin  boxes  for  exportation.  Hiej  nnf  he  bought  at  MoreVs,  in 
Piccadilly,  for  half-a-crown  apieee.  Mr.  FMwc,  of  Duke-street,  St. 
James's,  imports  Ortolans  in  coneddenible  nnmben. 

The  south  of  Europe  may  be  considered  the  sammer  and  autumnal 
head  quarters  of  the  Ortolan,  though  it  is  a  rammer  visitor  in  the 
central  and  northern  parts.  In  Italy  it  is  said  to  be  eommon,  by 
Temminck  and  others.  The  Prince  of  Musignano  states  it  to  be 
found  in  the  Sabine  mountains,  but  not  commonly  in  the  summer ; 
and  that  it  rarely  occurs  in  the  plains  of  Rome,  but  that  it  is  frequent 
in  Tuscany.  Lapland,  Russia,  Denmark,  Sweden,  and  Norway,  are 
among  the  countries  visited  by  it.  In  the  British  isles  it  seems  only 
entitled  to  rank  as  an  autumnal  visitor,  but  it  may  occur  more  fre- 
quently than  is  generally  supposed ;  for,  especially  to  an  unpreu:t]sed 
eye,  it  might  be  mistaken  for  the  yellow-hammer,  and,  in  some  states 
of  plumage,  for  other  buntings.  It  has  been  taken  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  London;  in  1837  there  was  a  live  specimen  in  the 
aviary  of  the  Zoological  Society  in  the  Regent's  Park ;  and,  during 
this  year,  many  Oitolans  were  sent  alive  to  tlie  London  market  from 
Prussia.  There  is,  however,  some  consolation  for  the  rarity  of  the 
Ortolan  in  England.  It  is  approached  in  delicacy  by  our  wheat-ear, 
which  in,  for  him,  an  unfortimate  hour,  was  named  the  Engluh  Orto- 
lan;  from  which  period  it  has  been  pursued  as  a  delicate  morsel 
throughout  all  his  island  haunts.  Bewick  s  figure  was  captured  at 
sea.  off  the  coast  of  Yorkshire,  in  May,  182*2.  Every  spring  and 
autumn  it  may  be  obsen-ed  at  Gibraltar,  on  its  migration.  Mr. 
Strickland  saw  it  at  Smyrna  in  April.  North  Africa  is  its  winter 
residence.  Colonel  Sykes  notes  it  in  his  Catalogue  of  the  Birds  of 
Deccan. 

A  gourmand  will  take  an  Ortolan  by  the  legs  and  crunch  it  in 
delicious  mouthfuls,  so  as  absolutely  to  lose  none  of  it.  More  deli- 
cate feeders  cut  the  bird  in  quarters,  and  lay  aside  the  gizzard,  whidi 
is  somewhat  hard ;  the  rest  may  l>e  eaten,  even  to  the  bones,  which 
are  sufficiently  tender  for  the  most  delicate  mouth  to  masticate  with- 
out inconvenience.       * 

Notwithstanding  its  delicacy,  the  Ortolan  fattens  verj  fast ;  and  it 
is  this  lump  of  fatness  that  is  its  merit,  and  has  sometimes  caused  it 
to  be  preferred  to  the  beccafico.  According  to  Buffon,  the  Ortolan 
was  known  to  the  Greeks  and  Romans,  who  understood  fattening  the 


GAME,  ETC.  151 


bird  upon  miUet;  but  a  lively  French  commentator  doubts  this  asser- 
tion. He  maintains  that,  liad  the  ancients  known  the  Ortolan,  they 
ironld  have  deified  it,  and  built  altars  to  it  upon  Mount  Hymettus 
and  the  Janiculum ;  adding,  did  they  not  deify  the  horse  of  Caligula 
which  was  certainly  not  worth  an  Ortolan?  and  Caligula  himself,  who 
was  not  worth  so  much  as  his  horse?  However,  the  dispute  belongs 
to  the  "  Classics  of  the  Table." 

The  Ortolan  figures  in  a  curious  anecdote  of  individual  epicurism 
in  the  last  century.  A  gentleman  of  Gloucestershire  had  one  son, 
whom  he  sent  abroad  to  make  the  grand  tour  of  the  Continent,  where 
he  paid  more  attention  to  the  cookery  of  nations  and  luxurious  living 
than  anything  else.  Before  his  retuni  his  father  died,  and  left  him 
a  laige  fortune.  He  now  looked  over  his  note-book,  to  discover  where 
the  most  exqmsite  dishes  were  to  be  had,  and  the  best  cooks  obtained. 
Every  servant  in  his  house  was  a  cook ;  his  butler,  footman,  house- 
keeper, coachman,  and  grooms,  were  all  cooks.  He  had  three  Italian 
cooks :  one  from  Florence,  another  from  Sienna,  and  a  third  from 
Titerho— for  dressing  one  Florentine  dish !  He  had  a  messenger 
constantly  on  the  road  between  Brittany  and  London,  to  bring  the 
^ggs  of  a  certain  sort  of  plover  found  in  the  former  country.  He  was 
known  to  eat  a  single  dinner  at  the  expense  of  £50,  though  there 
were  but  two  dishes.  In  nine  years  he  found  himself  getting  poor, 
and  this  made  him  melancholy.  When  totally  ruined,  having  spent 
£150,000,  a  friend  one  day  gave  hira  a  guinea  to  keep  him  from 
starving;  and  he  was  found  in  a  garret  next  day  broiling  an  Ortolan, 
lor  which  he  had  paid  a  portion  of  the  alms. 


-170. ORTOLANS  TO  IIOAST. 

They  should  be  picked  and  singed  but  not  drawn,  put  them  on 
dbeweis  with  bacon  round  them,  tie  them  on  the  spit,  when  tbey  are 
iooe  strew  over  with  grated  bread,  or  they  may  be  split  sideways, 
with  a  bay  leaf  between,  and  the  dish  should  be  garnished  all  round 
with  fiied  bread  crumbs. 


471. ^ENOUSH   ORTOLANS 

Are  also  roasted  without  drawing,  pick  and   singe  tliem  carefully, 
lad  when  they  are  roasted  cover  with  bread  crumbs. 
They  may  be  stuffed  with  forcemeat,  or  not,  at  pleasure. 


472. — rLovERS. 

These  birds  must  not  be  drawn,  roast  them  before  a  brisk  fire,  but 
at  a  distance,  serve  on  a  toast  with  melted  bulter. 


473. RUFFS  AND  BEEVES. 


Piek  and  singe  them,  but  do  not  draw  them,  envelop  tliem  in 
iees  of  Ul  bacon,  they  will  be  done  in  ten  minutes ;  send  them  to 
taUe  with  a  rich  gravy  in  the  dish. 


I 


152  GAME,  ETC. 


474. — ^WOODCOCKS  AND   SNIPES 

Should  not  be  drawn,  but  have  toast  as  for  grouse  under  them, 
passing  out  the  toil,  and  chop  it  and  spread  it  on  the  bird,  lay  them 
under  the  heads  in  the  dripping-pan. 


476. — ^WOODCOCKS  AND   SNIPES. 

Roast  them  undrawn,  serve  them  upon  a  toast,  and  take  nothing 
with  them  but  butter. 


476. — BABBITS. 

You  will  roast  the  same  as  hares,  and  if  required  to  be  stuffed, 
melted  butter,  chopped  parsley,  and  the  liver  chopped,  pepper  and 
salt. 


477. BABBIT. 

Babbits  will  form  excellent  side  dishes,  providing  thej  are  boned 
neatly,  larded,  and  braised,  they  may  also  be  lined  inside  with  bacon 
cut  in  thin  slices,  the  fatter  the  better,  and  a  stuffing  added,  which 
may  be  either  the  same  as  hare  or  veal. 


478. BABBITS. 

Fillet  those  the  same  as  fillets  of  hare,  No.  466.  You  may  if  you 
wish  leave  the  fillet  adhering  to  the  leg  when  removed  so  flEU*  from 
the  back,  turn  it  over  upon  the  leg,  and  lard  with  bacon  or  trufiBes 
that  side,  the  bones  are  most  excellent  in  your  clear  stock. 


479. ^TO  BOAST  BABBITS. 

The  rabbit  should  hang  in  its  skin  from  four  to  five  days,  as  the 
weather  will  permit,  then  skin  it,  make  a  strong  seasoning  of  black 
pepper,  ground  allspice,  cayenne,  a  little  nutmeg,  three  parts  of  a 
gill  of  vinegEir,  and  the  same  quantity  of  port  wine.  Let  it  remain 
in  this  pickle  a  day  and  a  half,  turning  and  rubbing  it  frequently ; 
stuff  it,  and  truss  it  as  a  hare,  and  serve  with  it  the  same  sauce. 


BABBIT BOASTED. 

Truss  it  with  the  head  on,  blanch  the  liver,  heart,  and  kidneys,  and 
chop  them  fine  with  a  little  parsley  and  shalot,  and  some  pepper  and 
salt,  put  it  into  a  little  gravy  and  butter,  and  boil  it  a  little ;  either 
put  the  sauce  in  a  boat  or  in  the  dish  under  the  rabbit. 

480. — BOILED    BABBITS.     - 

A  rabbit  should  bo#  only  twenty  minutes,  and  boil  slowly;  if 
larger  than  common  an  extra  ten  minutes  may  be  allowed ;  it  should 
be  sent  to  table  smothered  in  onion  sauce,  the  water  shotdd  be  kept 
free  from  scum.  It  is  trussed  for  boiling  differently  to  what  it  is  for 
roasting. 


GAME,   STC.  153 


481. — ^TO  FBT  RABBTTS. 

dean  and  wash  thoroughly,  scald  ten  minutes,  cut  up  into  joints, 
coat  with  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  sprinkle  over  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  firy  over  a  clear  fire,  a  quarter  of  an  hour  will  be  enough ;  serve 
with  a  gravy  made  with  the  liver  of  the  rabbit,  and  the  gravy  in 
which  the  rabbit  is  fried,  when  done  pour  it  into  the  dish,  let  it  run 
nnder  the  rabbit. 


482. ^DRESSED  HABBIT,  from  the  day  BEB'ORE. 

Cut  it  into  pieces,  and  put  them  into  some  good  white  or  brown 


sauce. 


483. RABBIT  WITH  ONIONS. 

Truss  your  rabbit,  and  lay  it  into  cold  water,  if  for  boiling  pour 
the  gravy  of  onions  over  it,  if  you  have  a  white  stock  pot  on,  boil  it  hi 
that 


484. BABBIT  A   LA    FRAN^AISE. 

Cut  it  into  pieces,  but  save  the  liver,  take  a  piece  of  bacon,  cut  it 
in  pieces,  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  and  fxy  it  brown ;  take  it  out,  and 
place  it  in  a  plate ;  put  into  the  stewpan  a  piece  of  butter  of  the  size 
of  a  crown-piece,  or  twice  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  add  the  pieces  of 
the  rabbit ;  toss  it  well,  when  it  begins  to  get  brown  sprinkle  a  little 
flour  over  it ;  keep  tinning  it ;  as  soon  as  the  flour  becomes  dry  whip 
it  into  a  dish.  Add  to  the  sauce  in  the  pan  more  butter,  stir  until 
brown,  then  put  in  a  tea-cupful  of  water,  stir  well,  put  in  the  bacon,  a 
smaU  quantity  of  parsley  and  thyme,  a  bay  leaf,  plenty  of  small 
onions,  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  rabbit.  Stew  slowly  five  hours. 
Should  the  sauce  decrease,  add  a  Httle  more  water  and  a  small  lump 
of  butter. 


485. FRICASSEE — ^WHITE  OR  BRO^Tf. 

If  a  fresh  rabbit,  cut  off  the  joints  and  the  back,  divide  into 
tfazee  or  four  pieces  then  fry  them;  if  for  brown,  do  the  meat 
brown ;  if  for  white,  do  not  broNMi,  you  will  likewise  do  the  same  for 
cnrries,  then  gently  boil  them  in  some  good  white  stock,  reduciug 
the  same  liquor,  then  add  some  bechamel  sauce  to  it,  or  if  for  brown 
coolie  sauce,  season  with  lemon  juice,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt,  add 
mnshrooms  if  you  have  them. 


486. — TO   DO   A  CAPON   OR   FOWL. 

Proceed  precisely  as  in  receipt,  No.  388,  but  it  will  not  take  so 
long  a  time  to  boil. 

487. — ^A.  SALMI  OF  GAME. 

This  dish  may  be  made  of  any  cold  game,  or  old  game ;  if  the 
birds  have  not  been  dressed,  only  half  roast  them,  remove  all  skin  and 


154  GAME,  STC. 

superfluous  fat,  indeed  all  &t  ^liievever  it  appears,  but  preserve  it  as 
it  is  to  be  used.  Tbe  birds  may  either  be  cut  in  joints,  and  the  body 
divided  in  half,  or  it  may  be  cut  into  smaller  pieces ;  lay  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  the  skin  and  fat  you  have  removed  from  the  birds,  a 
blade  of  mace,  a  bay  leaf,  two  eschalots  sliced,  a  spoonful  of  pepper- 
corns, add  three  parts  of  a  quart  of  good  veal  gravy,  and  reduce  it  to 
one  pint ;  strain  it,  and  afterwards  remove  as  much  of  the  fat  floating 
at  the  top  as  practicable,  a  little  more  salt  may  be  added  as  it  requires 
it,  and  some  cayenne,  return  the  game  to  it,  clearing  out  all  the 
trimmings  and  seasonings,  and  let  it  gradually  heat  through,  it  must 
not  boil ;  cut  sippets  of  bread  into  half  circles  and  dice,  fiy  them  in 
butter,  lay  them  tastefully  round  the  dish  in  which  you  purpose  put- 
ting the  hash,  and  then  arrange  the  game  tastefully  in  the  centre, 
before  the  fire,  thicken  the  gravy,  put  in  two  glasses  of  sheny,  and 
pour  it  veiy  hot  but  gently  over  Uie  birds  and  serve. 

The  French  salmi  is  cooked  much  in  the  same  fashion,  but  is  mora 
decidedly  a  stew  or  hash,  ham  being  cooked  with  it,  and  greater  pro- 
portions of  eschalots,  mace,  &c.  There  is  a  larger  quantity  of  wine 
added,  and  mushrooms  are  stewed  in  the  gravy;  the  effect  is  that 
French  is  much  tbe  richer  dish  of  the  two,  while  the  character  is  the 
the  same. 

The  salmi  may  be  made  of  partridges  alone,  or  moor  fold,  or 
black  cock,  or  all  united,  but  it  is  as  well  to  make  it  with  birds  ef 
high  flavour. 

488. — CUTLETS  OF  FOWL  AND  GAME. 

The  cutlets  are  of  course  larger  from  fowls,  &c.,  than  chickens, 
bat  they  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner.  The  cutlets  are 
usually  taken  from  the  thighs,  the  wings  boned,  and  from  the  fleshiest 
part  of  the  body. 

The  French  serve  them  with  sippets  of  bread  fried  a  light  brown, 
and  place  each  cutlet  upon  a  sippet,  pouring  into  tlie  dish,  but  not 
over  the  cutlets,  a  rich  brown  gravy. 


SAI.T   AKD   rsBSH    WATSS  riBH.  105 


CHAPTER  X. 
SALT  AHD  FBSSH  WATER  FISH. 


Before  dressing  fish  of  any  kind  great  core  should  be  taken  that  it 
is  well  washed  and  cleansed,  but  be  cautious  not  to  wash  it  too  much, 
as  the  flavour  is  much  diminished  by  too  much  water.  When  boiling 
fish  put  a,  little  salt  and  a  little  vinegar  inte  Uie  waler  to  give  the  iish 
finusess.  Be  ctreful  to  let  fish  be  veil  done,  but  not  to  let  it  break. 
Wlien  very  fresh,  cod  and  whiting  are  very  much  improved  by  keep- 
ing a  day,  and  rubbing  a  little  5alt  dotrti  the  back-bone.  Frcsli-water 
fiah  often  have  a  muddy  smell  and  taste,  which  is  easily  got  rid  of  by 
soaking  it  After  it  has  been  thoroughly  deansed  in  strong  salt  and 
water,  if  the  fish  is  not  too  large,  scald  it  in  the  same,  then  dry  and 
dress  it. 

Put  the  fish  in  cold  water,  and  let  it  b«l  very  gently,  or  the  out- 
sde  will  break  before  the  inside  is  wonn.     Put  all  crimped  fish  into 


156  aALT  AND  FBESH  WATEB  FISH. 


boiling  water,  and  when  it  boils  up  some  cold  water  should  be  put 
into  it  to  check  it  and  keep  it  simmering.  All  fish  should  be  taken 
out  of  the  water  the  instant  it  is  done,  or  it  will  become  woolly.  To 
ascertain  when  it  is  done,  tlie  fish-plate  may  be  drawn  up,  and,  if 
done,  the  meat  will  leave  the  bone.  To  keep  it  hot,  and  to  prevent 
it  losing  its  colour,  the  fish  plate  should  be  placed  across  the  fish- 
kettle,  and  a  clean  cloth  put  over  the  fish. 

Small  fish  may  bo  nicely  fried  plain,  or  done  witli  egg  and  bread 
crumbs,  and  then  fried.  Upon  the  dish  on  which  the  fish  is  to  be 
ser\'ed  should  be  placed  a  damask  napkin,  folded,  and  upon  this  put 
the  fish,  with  the  roe  and  liver ;  then  garnish  the  dish  with  horse- 
radish, parsley,  and  lemon. 

To  broil  or  fry  fish  nicely,  after  it  is  well  washed,  it  should  be  put 
in  a  cloth,  and  when  dry,  wetted  with  egg  and  bread  crumbs.  It  will 
be  much  improved  by  being  wetted  with  egg  and  crumbs  a  second 
time.  Then  have  your  pan  with  plenty  of  boiling  dripping  or  lard, 
put  your  fish  into  it,  and  let  it  fry  rather  quickly  till  it  is  of  a  nice 
brown  and  appears  done.  If  it  is  done  before  being  nicely  browned, 
it  should  be  taken  from  the  pan,  placed  on  a  sieve  before  the  fire  to 
drain  and  brown.  If  wanted  very  nice,  put  a  sheet  of  cap  paper  to 
receive  the  fish.  Should  you  fry  jour  filsh  in  oil,  it  obtains  a  much 
finer  colour  than  when  done  in  lard  or  dripping.  Never  use  butter, 
as  it  makes  the  fish  a  bad  colour.  Garnish  your  dish  with  green  or 
fried  parsley. 

In  broiling  fish,  be  careful  that  your  gridiron  is  clean ;  place  it  on 
the  fire,  and  when  hot  rub  it  over  with  suet  to  hinder  the  fish  from 
sticking.  The  fish  must  be  floured  and  seasoned  before  broiling.  It 
must  be  broiled  over  a  clear  fire  only,  and  great  care  must  be  taken 
that  it  does  not  bum  or  become  smoky. 

Broiled  fish  for  breakfast  should  always  be  skinned,  buttered,  and 
peppered. 

Fish  are  boiled,  fried,  broiled,  baked,  stewed,  in  fact  cooked  in 
every  imaginable  fashion  ;  those  named  are  the  chief  methods.  In 
every  kind  the  greatest  attention  and  cleanUness  must  be  exercised. 
A  broken,  disfigured,  abrased,  or  ill-cooked  dish  of  fish  presented  at 
table,  is  quite  sufficient  to  destroy  the  taste  for  it  for  ever  ;  on  the 
contrary,  when  neatly  done  it  heightens  the  relish  which  every  one 
possesses  more  or  less,  and  imparts  an  appetite  where  one  may  be 
wanting,  while  the  cook  is  held  in  grateful  remembrance. 


489. A    FEW   CHOICE   DISHES    FOR  TOP   BEHOVES,    ENTBEES, 

SALADS,   ETC.,   COLD. 

Plain  and  crimp  cod. 

Smelts  fried. 

Turbot  and  lobster  sauce. 

Brill  and  Dutch  sauce. 

Broiled  mackerel  and  fennel  sauce. 

Boiled  mackerel  and  fennel  sauce. 

Fried  soles  and  shrimp  sauce. 


SALT  AND  FRESH  WATER  FISH.  157 

Boiled  soles  and  anchovy  sauce. 

Doreys  boiled  and  ancbovy  sauce. 

Plaice  boiled  and  anchovy  sauce. 

Gurnet  boiled,  stuffed,  and  anchovy  sauce. 

Gurnet  baked,  stuffed  and  anchovy  sauce. 

Pike  boiled  and  stuffed  and  cmchovy  sauce 

Pike  baked  and  stuffed  and  anchovy  sauce. 

White  bait  fried. 

Salmon  boiled  and  broiled,  and  lobster  sauc3. 

Salmon  with  capers. 

Salmon  cutlets. 

Salmon  in  papers. 

Salmon  in  quenelles. 

Salmon  in  curry. 

Soles  boiled  and  broiled,  and  lobster  sauce. 

Fillets  of  soles, — Maitre  d*  hotel. 

Fillets  of  soles,  bread  crumbed. 

Fillets  of  v'eal  rolled  and  stuffed. 

Fillets  of  soles,  quenelles. 

Fillets  of  soles,  curry. 

Fillets  of  whitings, — Maitre  d*  hotel. 

Fillets  of  whitings,  bread  crumbed. 

Fillets  of  whitings,  boudins. 

Fillets  of  whitings,  quenelles. 

Fillets  of  whitings,  cuny. 

Fillets  of  mackerel, — Maitre  d'  hotel. 

Rllets  of  turbot,— Mdtre  d*  hotel. 

Fillets  of  turbot  oyster  sauce. 

Slices  of  cod  with  capers. 

Slices  of  cod  with  oyster  sauce. 

Slices  of  cod  witli  curry. 

Carp  stewed. 

Dorey  stewed. 

Mullet  stewed. 

Eels  stewed  and  fried. 


490. — MARINADE 

Is  most  frequently  used  in  France  for  boiling  fish,  but  is  not  often 
used  in  England,  although  it  certainly  gives  to  the  fish  an  improved 
flavour.  Cut  three  carrots  and  four  onions  in  slices,  put  them  into  a 
stewpan  with  some  butter,  two  bay  leaves,  a  little  thyme,  and  two 
cloves ;  set  these  on  the  fire ;  when  the  carrots  and  onions  are  done, 
add  some  parsley  and  shalots,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour,  a  glass  of 
▼inegar,  two  of  stock,  salt,  and  pepper.  Simmer  the  marinade  for 
three  quarters  of  an  hour,  strain  it  through  a  horse  hair  sieve,  and 
set  it  by  for  use.  In  France  two  bottles  of  vin  ordinaire  are  added, 
bot  if  the  fish  is  large,  and  cut  into  fillets  or  steaks  to  be  marinaded, 
a  quart  of  table  beer  should  be  substituted  for  the  wine.  Cider  is 
sometimes  preferred  to  the  wine  or  beer. 


158  &ALT  Aim  FRESH  WATER  FISH. 

491. — ^BABBEL   BOILED. 

Boil  them  in  salt  and  water,  when  done  pour  awaj  part  of  the 
water  and  add  to  the  rest  a  pint  of  red  wine,  some  salt  and  vinegar, 
two  onions  sliced,  a  hunch  of  sweet  herhs,  some  nutmeg,  mace,  and 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  boil  these  well  together  with  two  or  three 
anchovies,  then  put  in  the  fish,  simmer  a  short  time,  and  serve  it  with 
the  sauce  strained  over  it ;  shrimps  or  oysters  may  be  added. 


492. BARBEL   BROILED. 

Do  them  in  white  pepper  with  sweet  herbs  chopped  small,  and 
butter. 


493. — ^BARBEL  STEWED. 

• 

Clean  and  wash  a  large  barbel,  first  in  rin^sr  and  then  salt  in  the 
water,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  eel  broth,  enough  to  cover  it,  add 
some  cloves  and  sweet  herbs,  a  bit  of  cinnamon,  lei  tliem  stew  gently 
till  the  fish  is  done,  then  take  it  out  and  thicken  the  sauce  with  butter 
and  flour  and  pour  over  the  fish. 


494. BRILL 

Is  cooked  as  a  turbot  in  everr  respect,  an«l  the  same   sauces 
suffice. 


495. GOD — BOILED. 

The  thickness  of  this  fish  being  very  unequal,  the  head  and  shoul- 
ders greatly  preponderating,  it  is  seldom  boiled  whole,  because  in  a 
large  fish  the  tail,  from  its  thinness  in  comparison  to  the  upper  part 
of  the  fish  would  be  very  much  overdone.  Whenever  it  is  boiled 
whole,  a  small  fish  should  be  selected.  Tie  up  the  head  and  shoul- 
ders well,  place  it  in  the  kettle  with  enough  cold  water  to  completely 
cover  it ;  cast  in  a  handful  of  salt.  The  fish  if  a  small  one  will  be 
cooked  in  twenty  minutes  after  it  has  boiled,  if  large  it  will  take 
half  an  hour. 

When  enough,  drain  it  clear  of  the  scum,  remove  the  string ;  send 
it  to  tableg  amished  with  the  liver,  the  smelt,  and  the  roe  of  the  fish, 
scraped  horse-radish,  lemon  sliced,  and  sprigs  of  paisl^. 

The  garnish  sometimes  consists  of  oysters  firied,  or  smaU  fish 
fried,  or  whitings ;  this  is  at  the  option  of  the  cook. 

Anchovy  or  oyster  sauce  is  served  with  it. 

The  tail,  when  separated  from  the  body  of  the  fish,  may  be  cooked 
in  a  variety  of  fashions.  Some  salt  rubbed  into  it  and  hanging  it  two 
days,  will  render  it  exceedingly  good  when  cooked.  It  may  be  spread 
open  and  thoroughly  salted,  or  it  may  be  cut  into  fillets,  and  fned. 

If  the  eod  is  cooked  when  very  fresh,  some  salt  should  be  zubl»ed 
down  the  back  and  the  bone  before  boiling ;  it  much  improves  the 
flavour :  or,  if  hung  for  a  day,  the  eyes  ef  the  fish  dK>iiU  be  reoMyved, 


SALT  AKD  FRESH  WATEB  FISH;  159 

and  salt  filled  in  the  vacaxicies.     It  will  be  found  to  give  finnness  to 
the  fish,  and  add  to  the  richness  of  the  flavour. 


496. — COD  SOUNDS. — ri.g6ut. 

The  sounds  should  not  be  much  soaked,  but  thoroughly  cleaned, 
simmer  them  for  a  short  time,  broil  them,  having  first  floured  them ; 
when  they  are  just  tender,  stew  them  in  white  gravy  which  has  been 
well  seasoned,  add  a  little  cream,  a  bit  of  butter,  a  spoonful  of  flour, 
give  it  a  boil,  flavour  with  nutmeg,  a  small  piece  of  lemon-peel,  and 
i  dash  of  pounded  mace  ;  serve. 


497. ^SLICES   OF   COD. 

Three  slices  make  a  small  dish ;  put  them  in  a  baking- dish,  cover 
them  over  with  some  good  second  stock,  a  little  essence  of  anchovies ; 
when  done  thicken  the  stock,  and  pass  it  through  a  tammy,  pour  it 
orer  your  fish,  season  with  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt,  and  lemon  juice. 
if  for  capers  add  them,  if  for  maitre  d'  hdtel  add  cream  and  parsley 
chopped  fine. 


498. COD    SOUNDS — BOUSED. 

If  boiled,  they  should  be  first  soaked  in  warm  water,  or  scalded  in 
hot  water ;  the  latter  is  the  quickest,  the  former  the  surest  method : 
they  should  soak  half  an  hour  if  put  into  warm  water,  the  dirty  skin 
should  be  removed,  and  when  thoroughly  cleaned  boiled  in  equal  parts 
of  milk  and  water  until  tender.  Thev  should  be  sent  to  table  with 
^  sauce. 


499.— CRIMPED    COD. 

Cut  the  ood,  which  should  be  quite  fresh,  in  handsome  slices,  and 
l^  it  ibr  about  three  hours  in  spring  water  salted,  a  little  vinegar 
most  be  added,  say  one  wine-glassful ;  make  a  fish  kettle  more  than 
timee  parta  fiiU  of  spring  water,  in  which  a  large  handful  of  salt  has 
been  thrown,  let  it  boil  quickly,  put  in  the  cod,  keep  it  boiling  for  ten 
minutes,  it  will  then  be  enough ;  take  up  the  slices  of  fish  Avith  care, 
and  lay  them  upon  a  fish  plate,  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley,  sliced 
lemon,  horse-radish  scraped  into  ciuls ;  sen  e  with  shrimp  and  oyster 


500. — STEWED    COD. 


Cot  some  of  the  finest  pieces  from  the  thickest  part  of  the  fish, 
|4ace  them  in  a  stewpUn  with  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 
or  larger,  three  or  four  blades  of  mace,  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  a 
flBsll  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  some  oysters,  with  a  little  of  their 
mm  liquor.  When  nearly  done  add  a  large  wine-glass  of  sherry, 
nd  atew  gently  until  enough. 


160  SALT  AND  FRESH  WATER  FISH. 

501. — COD    SCALLOPED. 

Take  enough  cold  dressed  cod  to  nearly  fill  all  the  shells  you  pur- 
pose  using,  pound  it,  beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  pour  over  it, 
add  a  few  shrimps  skinned,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  Uttle  butter  ;  do  not 
quite  fill  the  shells,  strew  over  them  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  drop 
butter  in  a  liquid  state  over  them.  Brown  them  before  the  fire  in  a 
Dutch  oven. 


602. — TAIL   OF   COD. 

Boil  as  previously  directed,  and  when  sufficiently  done,  that  the 
meat  may  be  easily  removed  from  the  bones,  divide  it  into  tolerable 
sized  pieces,  and  in  a  light  batter  fry  them  brown.  Send  up  crisped 
parsley  with  it  as  a  garnish. 

It  is  sometimes  cooked  plainly  with  oyster  sauce. 


603. — BAKED   COD. 

Cut  a  large  fine  piece  out  of  the  middle  of  the  fish ;  skin  it  caxe- 
fully ;  stuff  it  with  a  stuffing  composed  of  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
boiled  hard,  the  roe  half-boiled,  bread  crumbs,  grated  lemon  peel, 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  to  taste.  Bind  it  with  ^le  undressed  white 
of  an  egg,  sew  in  the  stuffing  with  white  thread.  Bake  it  in  a 
Dutch  oven  before  the  fire,  turn  it  frequently,  and  baste  it  with 
butter ;  serve  with  shrimp  sauce,  plain  butter,  or  oyster  sauce. 

A  tin  baking  dish  is  preferable  to  any  other  for  cooking  this  fish. 


504.^-CODS   HEAD. 

Secure  it  well  with  strong  string,  not  too  thick ;  put  it  into  a  fish- 
kettle  ;  cover  it  with  water;  put  in  a  small  handful  of  salt,  a  wine- 
glassful  of  vinegar,  a  quantity  of  scraped  horse  i*adish.  Place  the 
fish  upon  a  drainer,  and  when  the  water  boils,  put  it  into  the  kettle. 
Boil  gently ;  when  the  fish  rises  to  the  surface,  it  is  enough ;  drain 
it,  and  be  veiy  particular  in  sliding  the  fish  into  the  fish-plate,  that 
it  is  not  broken. 

Garnish  with  scraped  horse-radish  and  lemon.  Serve  with  shrimp 
and  oyster  sauce. 


605.— COD  FISH   PIE. 

Take  a  piece  from  the  middle  of  a  good  sized  fish,  salt  it  well  all 
night,  then  wash  it,  and  season  ^itli  salt  and  pepper  and  a  few  grains 
of  nutmeg,  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  some  oysters,  put  all  in  your 
dish  with  pieces  of  butter  on  the  fish ;  add  a  cup  of  good  second 
white  stock  and  cream  ;  cover  it  with  a  good  crust,  add  a  little  lemon 
juice  in  the  gravy. 

500.— -CURRY   OF   COD. 

This  is  a  firm  fish  if  good ;  when  cold  you  can  separate  the  flakes, 
and  proceed  as  before,  addmg  two  dozen  of  large  oysters  to  your  fish. 


SALT  AND  ITBESH  WATEB  FISH.  161 


607,— SALT  COD. 

There  are  a  yarietj  of  opinions  upon  the  method  of  dressing  this 
*d]8h,  many  lahouring  so  hard  vdth  soaking  and  brushing,  to  produce 
tenderness,  but  accomplishing  that  one  end  they  completely  destroy 
all  flavour.  It  is  doubtless  an  essential  point  to  remove  the  dry,  un- 
wholesome hardness  of  the  fish,  but  it  is  equally  essential  to  retain 
«the  flavour,  and  experience  has  taught  the  author  that  the  following 
process  is  the  most  successful  of  any  he  has  hitherto  attempted:^ 

Soak  the  fish  for  eight  hours  in  clean  cold  water  (not  spring  water), 
let  the  water  have  enough  vinegar  in  it  to  impregnate  it  with  a  slight 
£aYOur  and  no  more,  after  soaking  the  above  time  take  it  out  and  let 
it  drain  three  or  four  hours,  then  put  in  soak  again  for  four  hours, 
when  this  has  been  done,  place  it  in  a  fish  kettle  with  plenty  of  cold, 
soft  water,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  veiy  gradually,  place  it  on  the  side  of 
the  fire,  and  it  will  cook  gradually  until  enough.  Sen^e  with  parsnips 
and  egg  sauce. 

608. — ANOTHER  WAY. 

Wash  and  soak  the  fish,  lay  it  twelve  hours  in  water  into  which 
two  wineglasses  of  vinegar  have  been  poured,  put  the  fish  in  cold 
water  in  the  fish  kettle,  bring  it  gradually  to  a  boil,  and  then  boil 
^wly  until  enough,  take  it  out,  dmin  it,  break  it  into  flakes  upon  a 
•dish,  beat  up  boiled  parsnips  and  pour  over  it,  boil  up  with  cream 
and  a  good  sized  piece  of  butter  rubbed  in  flour.  Serve  with  egg  or 
faiBnip  sauce,  if  die  latter  send  the  root  up  whole. 


509.^-CURRIED    COD. 

Gut  some  handsome  steaks  of  cod,  slice  a  number  of  onions,  and 
&jboth  a  good  brown  colour,  stew  the  fish  in  white  gravy,  add  a  large 
teaqpoonful  of  curry-powder,  a  third  that  quantity  of  cayenne  pepper, 
thi^»n  with  three  spoonfuls  of  cream,  a  Uttle  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
«id  a  little  flour. 


510. COD   FRICASEED. 

Take  the  sounds,  scald  them  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  if 
they  have  been  dried  boil  them  until  they  are  tender,  take  some 
IOCS  and  the  liver,  blanch  the  roes,  cut  them  into  pieces  an  inch 
thick,  and  an  equal  quantity  of  the  liver,  boil  for  the  middle  a  fine 
piece  of  cod,  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  season  with  grated  nutmeg,  a 
little  pounded  mace,  an  onion,  a  few  sweet  herbs,  a  sprinkle  of  salt, 
and  add  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  (fish  broth  is  better  if  conveni- 
ent), cover  down  close,  stew  for  seven  or  eight  minutes,  then  add 
four  glasses  of  port,  sk  oysters,  with  the  liquor  strained,  and  a  piece 
<rf  butter  floured,  stew  gently,  shaking  the  pan  round  occasionally 
until  they  are  enough,  remove  the  onion  and  the  herbs,  dish  up,  gar- 
9iib  with  lemon,  and  serve. 


162  SALT  AND  FEB8H  VATBB  TI^ 

611.— OOD  BOOKIHl. — BROILED. 

Scald  them,  akin  them,  and.  when  perfectly  clean,  Bimmer  them 
until  tender,  take  them  out,  dredge  them  nith  fioor,  and  broil  them 
over  a  clear  fire. 

During  the  time  thej  are  broiling,  make  a  brown  gravj,  seaaoned 
with  salt  and  pepper,  a  spoonfol  ^  Harvey's  sauce,  one  ha3f  that 
quantity  of  mustwl,  thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  butter,  boil  it  up 
and  pour  it  over  the  sounds. 

K13. — COD   OMELETTX. 

Break  into  small  pieces  the  thickest  parts  of  a  dressed  cod,  season 
it  with  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and  a  little  pounded  mace,  beat  up  six 
e^s  well  and  mix  with  it,  forming  it  into  a  paste,  Ifjr  it  aa  an  ome- 
lette, and  serve  as  hot  as  posEdble. 

513. CABP,  TESCH,  PERCH,  i-c. 

Dtj  well  with  clean  cloth,  dredge  with  flour,  fry  them  until  they 
are  brown.  If  the  pure  flavour  of  the  fish  is  desired,  they  should  be 
cooked  as  soon  after  being  caught  as  possible,  and  as  simply  as  above 
described ;  but  if  it  is  desired  to  make  a  dish,  the  fish  may  be  placed 
after  having  been  fried  in  a  Btewpan,  with  a  gill  of  port  win«,  the 
same  quantity  of  vrater,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  two  deeecrt  spooo- 
fnls  of  walnut  ketchup,  half  the  quantity  of  mushroom  ditto,  or 
powder,  sprinkle  with  cayenne  pepper,  an  onion  stuck  with  dovei, 
and  a  small  horse-radish,  from  which  the  outer  coat  has  been  sensed : 
stew  until  the  gravy  is  reduced  to  a  rich  tliickncss,  remove  the  fisb, 
strain  the  gravy  as  clear  as  possible,  thicken  it,  and  pour  it  over  the 
Jish;  serve. 

614. STEWED  CARP. 

Three  carp  will  make  a  dish;  put  them  in  a  baking  diah,  out  np 
in  thin  pieces  a  carrot,  turnip,  onion,  celery,  a  iiiggot  of  sweet  heiba. 
a  bay  leaf,  a  little  mace.  Bi>:  doves,  whole  pepper,  some  good  aecmid 
stock,  six  anchovies,  half  a  pint  of  port  wine,  boil  all  this  together, 
pour  it  over  the  carp  while  hot,  put  buttered  paper  over  them,  do 
them  in  the  oven ;  when  done  strain  off  the  stock  from  the  fish  and 
thicken  it,  stmia  it  through  a  tammy,  add  a  glass  more  port  vrine, 
Maaon  it  with  sugar,  lemon  juice,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt. 


515. — DRESSED   CRAB. 

The  white  port  of  the  crab  forms  a  wall  within  the  dish,  tbt 


SALT  AKD  FBE8H  WATEB  FISH*  163 


yellow  part  of  the  crab  is  mixed  with  vinegar,  mustard,  &c,,  so  as  to 
ferrn  a  pool  within. 


616. — ^DRESSED   CRAB. 

Orel  a  large  crab,  take  off  the  daws,  tlien  pull  off  the  body  from  the 
Aell,  the  white  meat  keep  by  itself,  and  the  soft  yellow  meat  by 
itself,  wash  and  trim  the  large  back  shell,  then  on  one  side  put  all  the 
white  meat,  and  on  the  other  side  put  the  soft  meat,  dividing  the  two 
with  slices  of  cucumber  or  radishes.  Crack  the  big  bones  or  claws, 
and  lay  them  underneath  the  crab  to  stand  upon.  Dish  it  up  on  a 
wpkin. 

617.— CRABS — TO   DRESS   CRABS. 

Sooop  the  meat  from  the  shell,  mix  the  meat  into  a  paste  with  a 
little  yinegar,  bread  cnimbs,  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  little  butter,  or 
sweet  oil ;  return  it  into  the  shell,  and  serve.  To  serve  this  hot, 
it  ahoold  be  heated  before  the  fire,  and  served  up  with  dry  toast  cut 
into  large  squares  or  dice. 

618. — ^BAKED  CRAB. 

Bemove  the  meat  from  the  shell,  mix  it  with  bread  crumbs,  about 
one  fourth  will  be  sufficient ;  add  white  pepper,  salt,  a  little  cayenne, 
grated  nutmeg,  and  half  a  dozen  small  lumps  of  butter,  each  about  the 
size  of  a  nut;  this  last  ingredient  should  be  added  to  the  fish  after 
it  has  been  returned  to  the  shell.  Squeeze  lemon  juice  over  it;  lay 
a  thick  coat  of  bread  crumbs  over  all,  and  bake. 


619.— CRAY   FISH. 

BoO  them  in  vinegar,  salt,  and  veater ;  when  cold,  turn  each  claw 
to  Slick  in  the  fan  of  the  tail,  when  they  will  look  like  a  frog ;  dish 
Ihflm  npon  parsley. 

520.— CRAY-nSH   IN   ASFIC. 

Take  all  the  shells  from  the  tails,  wipe  them ;  set  a  little  aspic 
jelly  to  cool  in  your  mould  half  an  inch  deep ;  you  may  ornament 
*t  if  you  like  with  white  of  eggs  and  truffles,  and  green  French 
^eans,  if  so  you  must  put  a  little  drop  of  jelly  upon  your  design,  let 
^t  get  sdfT,  then  go  on  filling  your  mould  with  the  cray-fish,  when  full 
^1  in  some  more  aspic,  but  you  must  be  sure  the  jelly  is  not  wann 
'^^^  all  your  work  of  art  will  be  lost ;  turn  it  out  with  lukewarm  water ; 
Put  cuciunber  round,  introducing  dices  of  red  turnip  radishes. 

521.— CHUB   BOILED. 

Pat  as  much  beer,  vinegar,  and  water  into  a  fish-kettle  as  will  cover 
*^e  fish,  a  good  quantity  of  salt  and  fennel ;  scale  and  cleanse  a  chub, 
f«id  when  the  water  boils  put  in  the  fish,  when  it  is  sufficiently  boiled 
**y  it  «i  a  board  to  drain,  let  it  lie  for  an  hour,  put  it  in  a  pewter 

M  2 


164  SALT  AND  FRESH  WATEB  FISH. 

dish  over  a  chafing  dish  of  coals,  with  melted  butter,  and  senre  it 
very  hot 

622. CHUB   BROILED. 

Scald  the  chub,  cut  off  the  tail  and  fins,  wash  it  well  and  slit  it 
down  the  middle,  make  two  or  three  cuts  on  the  back  with  a  knife, 
and  broil  it  on  a  wood  fire,  baste  it  all  the  time  it  is  broiling  with 
fresh  butter  and  salt  and  thjme  shred  small. 


523— CURRY  OF  FISH  A  l'indienne  for  breakfast. 

Take  a  crimped  haddock  and  boil  it  quickly  with  a  good  bit  of  salt 
in  the  water  to  make  it  firm ;  boil  two  eggs  hard,  then  sUce  them  in 
your  stewpau  with  the  finest  pieces  of  the  fish  which  you  must  have 
ready  washed  and  blanched,  and  well  boiled  in  good  broth  until  soft,  then 
strain  the  broth  from  the  rice,  if  any  left  add  it  to  the  fish  and  eggs ; 
add  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne ;  keep  it  hot  until  wanted,  then  taJce 
a  large  spooEiul  of  very  good  bechamel  sauce  very  thick,  add  a  good 
tea-spoonful  of  the  best  Indian  curry  powder,  and  a  gill  of  good  wick 
cream,  boil  it  five  minutes,  then  pass  it  through  a  sieve  or  tammy 
upon  the  fish  and  eggs,  shake  them  quietly  on  the  fire,  it  must  be  well 
seasoned.  I  make  it  with  turbot  or  soles  left  firom  a  former  dinner, 
this  makes  a  good  dish  for  dinner,  garnished  with  fillet,  soles,  or 
whitings.     This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  ten  persons. 


524.— CURRIES   OF   FISH 

Are  invariably  made  the  same  way  as  in  receipt,  No.  592,  the  only 
difi'erence  is  the  fish  of  whatever  sort  you  may  have  ;  only  some  are 
more  tender  than  others,  and  without  great  care  you  will  break  the 
pieces  all  to  a  mummy  instead  of  being  of  a  shape  and  quite  clear 
pieces.  Dish  either  in  a  rice  rim  or  in  a  mashed  potato  rim,  either 
way  be  sure  to  send  up  rice  plain,  particularly  boiled  for  curries  in 
general.  Cut  up  two  or  three  onions  in  thin  slices,  fry  them  a  nice 
light  brown,  dry  up  the  butter  with  curry  powder,  use  some  very  good 
white  stock,  boil  it  well,  season  it  with  sugar,  cayenne,  salt,  and 
lemon  juice,  strain  all  through  a  tammy  cloth  or  sieve  into  a  clean 
stewpan,  then  put  your  fish  into  it  shaking  it  gently,  do  not  use  a 
spoon  only  to  dish  it  with,  boil  it  gently  a  short  time. 

525. DRESSED   JOHN    DOIIY. 

This  fish  will  require  much  less  doing  than  the  carp,  but  you  will 
proceed  exactly  the  same,  pouring  the  sauce  over  it. 


520. JOHN    DORY 

Is  dressed  as  turbot,  and  eaten  with  the  same  sauces. 


527. — AXGUILLES  A   l'h0LIANDAI5E. 

Take  two  small  lemons  and  remove  the  outer  and  inner  skin  as 


SALT  AND  FRESH  WATER  FISH.  165 

doselj  as  possible,  divide  them  intx>  as  many  portions  as  they  will 
separate  without  disturbing  the  juice,  or  if  they  should  be  sliced,  use 
eiUier  an  ivory  or  a  silver  knife  to  divide  them,  lay  them  in  a  stewpan 
with  one  quart  and  half  a  pint  of  water,  add  a  faggot  of  fresh  full 
leaved  parsley,  twenty  corns  of  white  pepper,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  little 
cayenne,  and  a  tea- spoonful  of  salt,  let  it  gradually  boil,  put  it  aside 
and  simmer  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  suffer  it  to  get  cool,  then  add  from 
two  to  three  pounds  of  eels  skinned,  cleaned,  and  cut  into  equal 
lengths,  boil  very  gradually  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  take  out  the  eels 
and  serve  them  with  Dutch  sauce. 

The  liquor  may  be  divided  into  half,  and  thickened  with  half  a  pint 
of  cream,  or  with  flour  and  butter  seasoned  with  a  little  additional 
pepper  and  salt,  and  poured  over  the  fish  when  dished,  in  the  latter 
case  it  should  be  garnished  with  the  lemon  peel  cut  in  small  dice  and 
laid  round  the  dish  in  company  with  the  boiled  parsley  minced. 


528. — COLLARED   EELS. 

The  eels  destined  to  be  dressed  as  above  should  be  the  finest  whick 
can  be  selected :  the  skin  must  not  be  removed,  but  the  bone  must 
be  carefully  and  cleverly  extracted.  Spread  out  the  fish,  and  with. 
some  finely  cJiopped  sage,  parsley,  and  mixed  spices,  rub  the  fish  well 
orer;  then  take  some  broad  white  tape,  bind  up  the  fish  tightly;. 
throw  a  good  handful  of  salt  into  the  water  in  which  it  is  to  be 
boiled,  and  a  couple  of  bay  leaves.  Boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 
and  if  the  fish  be  taken  out  and  hung  to  dry  for  twelve  hours,  it 
will  be  the  better  for  it  when  served.  Add  to  the  water  in  which  the 
fish  has  been  boiled  a  pint  of  vinegar,  a  little  whole  pepper,  some 
knotted  marjoram  or  thyme.  This  pickle  also  should,  after  boiling 
about  twelve  minutes,  be  suffered  to  stand  as  long  as  the  eels  are 
recommended  to  be  hung ;  previous  to  serving  the  fish  must  be  unrolled 
to  abrase  the  skin  as  little  as  possible,  and  put  them  into  the 
e.  Send  up  in  slices  or  whole,  according  to  taste ;  garnish  with 
parsley. 

629. — EELS   BREAD   CRUMBED. 

Cat  your  fish  the  size  as  before,  dry  and  Hour  them  and  proceed  as 
for  other  fried  fish,  dish  them  on  a  napkin  ^ith  fried  parsley. 

530. — FRIED   EELS. 

Cut  into  pieces  same  length  as  above,  cleaned  nicely  and  well 
dried ;  let  them  be  coated  with  yolk  of  egg,  powdered  with  bread 
cmmbs;  fry  them  brown;  serve  with  parsley  and  butter.  Garnish 
vith  handsome  sprigs  of  parsley. 

631. — BOILED    EELS. 

Choose  the  smallest,  simmer  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  into 
which  a  quantity  of  parsley  has  been  put.  Garnish  and  serve  with 
ittne  sauce  as  the  last. 


166  SALT  AND  FRESH  WATER  FISH, 

682. — ^EELS   STEWED. 

Procure  six  or  seven  large  ones,  and  proceed,  after  having  cut 
them  about  three  inches  in  length,  as  for  carp,  leaving  out  the  wine 
until  last,  add  in  your  sauce  some  very  fine  chopped  parslej,  and  a 
shalot,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  fish. 


533. — EELS — STRWED. 

This  is  a  dish  frequently  made  for  invalids,  and  to  the  taste  of 
many  fitted  always  to  appear  on  the  table  of  an  emperor :  there  are 
various  methods  of  stewing  them,  the  simplest  is  always  the  best, 
because,  without  exception,  the  flavour  of  the  fish  is  preserved,  wben« 
in  too  many  cases,  it  is  wholly  destroyed  by  the  number  of  ingre- 
dients employed;  indeed  the  skill  of  the  professed  cook  is  meet 
fi^quently  exerted  to  give  the  various  esculents,  they  prepare  for  the 
table  an  opposite  taste  to  that  which  they  naturally  possess. 

To  stew  eels  they  should  be  cut  in  pieces  about  three  inches  long, 
and  fried  until  they  are  about  half  cooked ;  they  will  be  then  brown : 
let  them  get  cold,  take  some  good  beef  gravy,  and  an  onion,  parsley, 
plenty  of  white  pepper,  a  little  salt,  some  sage  chopped  very  fine, 
enough  only  to  add  to  the  flavour,  a  little  mace,  place  the  eels  in 
this  gravy,  and  stew  until  they  are  tender :  two  anchovies  may  be 
finely  chopped  and  added,  usith  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mustard,  already 
made,  some  walnut  ketchup,  and  a  glass  of  red  wine,  servo  with 
sippets  of  toasted  bread.  Or  after  being  stewed  until  tender,  a 
glass  of  port  wine  may  be  added,  half  a  lemon  squeezed  into  it;  strata 
and  thicken  with  butter  and  flour. 


534. — spiTcncocKED  eels. 

There  are  several  ways  to  spitchcock  eels.  They  are  either  broiled 
or  stewed.  To  broil  them,  see  that  the  gridiron  is  cleaned  and 
rubbed  with  suet,  to  prevent  the  adhesion  of  the  skin  of  the  fish,  whidi 
which  must  be  suffered  to  remain  on  ;  cut  the  eels,  which  should  be 
large,  into  lengths  of  six  or  seven  inches,  not  less,  and  coat  them 
well  with  yolk  of  egg.  Pound  in  a  mortar  parsley,  nutmeg,  mace, 
cloves,  and  pepper,  this  should  be  rubbed  over  the  fish,  and  they 
should  be  broiled  a  clear  brown ;  serve  with  melted  butter,  fish  sauce, 
employed  according  to  palate. 


535. — IJLM  PREYS. 

Same  as  receipt,  628. 


536.— GURNET   OR   OUBM>RD. 

May  be  boiled  as  in  receipt,  No.  584,  or  may  be  baked  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  receipt  for  pike.  It  may  also  be  cooked  without  the 
forcemeat  and  sent  to  table  with  plam  melted  butter  and  aachovj, 
with  a  lemon  and  a  Httle  Dutch  or  brown  caper  sauce. 


SALT  AN]>  FBESH  WATEB  FISH.  167 

537. — HALIBUT. 

May  be  cut  in  fillets  and  dressed  as  mackerel  fillets. 


538. — HALIBUT ^STEWED. 

Put  into  a  stei^'paii  half  a  pint  of  fish  hroth,  a  table-sfK)onful  of 
▼inegar,  and  one  of  mushroom  ketchup,  add  an  anchovy,  two  good 
sized  onions  cut  in  quarters,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  one  clove  of 
garlic,  add  a  pint  and  a  half  of  Avatcr,  lot  it  stew  an  hour  and  a 
quarter,  strain  it  oi!'  clear,  put  into  it  the  head  and  shoulders  of  a 
fine  halibut  and  stew  until  tender,  thicken  \nth  butter  and  flour,  and 
serve. 


539. TO    CUKE    FIXNON    HADDOCK. 

Cut  off  the  heads  and  clean  them  as  in  the  receipt  "  to  dry 
haddocks,"  cover  them  with  salt,  and  let  them  remain  in  it  two  hours, 
brush  them  over  with  pyroligneous  acid.  Hang  them  for  ten  days  or 
a  fortnight  In  Scotland,  they  tie  tliem  in  pairs  on  a  string,  and 
bang  them  over  peat  which  has  been  so  much  burned  as  not  to  emit 
much  smoke  or  heat,  and  in  two  or  three  hours  they  are  fit  to  eat. 


5-40. — TO  DUY  HADDOCK. 

Choose  the  finest  you  can  obtain,  crlean  them,  remove  the  eyes, 
the  entrails,  and  ihe  gills ;  clear  away  also  all  the  blood  from  tho 
lAckbone.  Wipe  them  as  dry  as  you  can  with  a  clean  soft  cloth,  and 
111  in  with  salt  the  spaces  which  contained  tlie  eyes,  also  rub  in  a 
ffoantitj  in  the  inside  of  the  fish,  lay  them  in  a  cool  ])lace  on  a  dry 
utg-stone,  or  a  piece  of  board  for  eighteen  or  twenty  hours,  then 
bang  them  in  a  dry  place.  Four  days  will  be  found  quite  sufficient 
to  prepare  them  for  eating. 

641. TO    DRESS   DRIED    HADDOCK. 

They  should  be  skinned,  rubbed  with  egg,  and  rolled  in  new  bread 
ttombs,  lay  them  in  a  dish  before  the  fire  to  brown,  baste  witli  butter, 
*d  when  well  browned  sene  with  egg  sauce. 


oo 


54*2. — TO    DRESS   llADDOCKS. 

Clean  them  very  thoroughly,  and  take  off  the  heads  and  the  skin, 
P^t  them  into  boiling  water,  throw  in  two  moderate  sized  handfuls 
^  salt,  let  tliem  boil  as  fast  as  possible,  and  when  they  rise  to  the 
•wfiice  (which  they  will  do,  if  they  have  sufficient  room),  tliey  are 
done  enough.     They  are  sent  to  table  with  plain  butter  for  sauce. 

543. TO    STEW   HADDOCKS. 

fione,  cat  off  the  heads,  tails,  fins,  and  do  the  trimming  neatly,  of 
two  or  three  haddocks,  or  as  many  as  are  required,  put  them  in  three 
fbata  of  water,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper-corns,  and  a  large  onion, 
ftew  slowly  five-and-thirty  minutes,  strain  the  gravy  off,  take  up  the 


168  SALT  AND  FRESH  WATER  FISH. 

fish,  dredge  it  with  flour,  fiy  it  brown  over  a  clear  fire,  and  re-plaoe 
it  iu  the  stock ;  add  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  squeeze  in 
half  a  lemon,  a  tablespoonful  of  ketchup,  and  stew  till  the  gravy  is  of 
a  rich  consistency. 

These  quantities  are  for  three  haddocks. 


544.— TO  BAKE   HADDOCK. 

Cut  off  the  heads,  trim  and  bone  them,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  chop  very  fine  a  small  quantity  of  mushroom,  onion,  and  parsley, 
spread  it  over  the  fish,  lay  on  them  small  pieces  of  butter,  and  place 
them  in  a  dish  with  crumbs  of  bread,  bake  them  from  fifty  minutes 
to  an  hour,  skim  the  gravy,  and  serve  up  in  the  same  dish,  as  that 
in  which  it  was  cooked. 


645. — SHADDOCK — TO   BROIL. 

Flour  it,  broil  it  a  fine  brown  over  a  quick,  clear  fire,  the  higher 
you  are  able  to  place  the  gridiron  the  better;  serve  with  lobster  sauce. 


546. — ^HERRINGS. 

Herrings  are  dressed  in  a  variety  of  fashions ;  they  are  fried, 
boiled,  broiled,  dried,  potted,  baked,  smoked,  pickled. 

There  are  three  sorts  of  herrings,  fresh,  salted,  and  red  herrings, 
they  are  cleaned  Hke  any  other  sort  of  fish,  when  fresh  they  are 
boiled  and  served  with  melted  butter,  white  sauce,  &c.;  the  salted 
herring  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  before  it  is  cooked,  this  is 
broiled,  sometimes  it  is  cut  in  pieces  and  eaten  raw ;  the  red  herrins 
is  split  down  the  back,  the  head  and  tail  taken  ofi*,  and  the  fish  broiled 
like  the  others,  they  may  be  also  dressed  in  the  following  manner : 
when  they  have  laid  in  cold  water  some  time,  soak  them  in  milk  for 
two  hours,  then  split  them  down  the  back,  have  ready  some  melted 
butter  in  which  has  been  mixed  basil  and  bav  leaf  minced  small,  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  rub  the  herrings  well  with 
this  bread,  then  broil  them  over  a  gentle  fire,  serve  with  lemon  juice; 
the  best  red  herrings  are  full  of  roe,  are  firm  and  large,  and  have  a 
yellow  cast ;  of  the  fresh  herrings  the  scales  are  bright,  if  good  the 
eye  is  full  and  the  gill  red,  the  fish  should  be  stiff. 


547. FRESH   HERRINGS   BAKED. 

Wash  the  herrings  in  clear  spring  water,  when  they  are  thoroughly 
clean  drain  them,  and  then,  without  wiping  them,  lay  them  in  a  dish 
or  baking  pan;  pepper  and  salt  them,  chop  finely  two  or  three 
onions,  some  parsley,  thyme,  and  strew  over  them ;  cover  them  in 
equal  proportions  of  vinegar  and  small-beer ;  tie  them  over,  and  let 
them  bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

They  should  be  kept  in  the  pickle,  and  make  a  pleasant  dish 
when  cold. 


SALT  AND  FBE8H  WATER  FISH. 


169 


548. — FRESH  HERRINGS   BOILED. 

Clean  them,  wash  them  over  with  vinegar,  fasten  the  heads  to  the 
tails,  and  put  them  in  boiling  water;  they  will  take  fipom  ten  to 
twelve  minutes.  Garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  melted  butter,  in 
which  a  table- spoonful  of  ketchup,  a  tea-spoonful  of  Chili  vinegar, 
and  one  of  made  mustard  has  been  mixed  wliile  making. 

549. — FRESH   HERRINGS — BROILED. 

To  broil  them  steep  them  first  in  vinegar  and  water,  into  which  a 
handful  of  salt  has  been  thrown ;  let  them  remain  ten  minutes, 
take  them  out  and  broil  them  over  a  clear  fire,  (the  bars  of  the 
gridiron  should  bo  rubbed  with  suet,  to  prevent  the  skin  of  the  fish 
adhering  to  it.)  Serve,  garnished  with  parsley.  They  may  be 
eaten  with  melted  butter,  with  a  little  mustard  and  vinegar  in  it,  or 
lemon  juice  instead  of  the  latter,  being  preferable. 


550.^FRESH    HERRINGS   FRIED. 

Slice  small  onions,  and  lay  in  the  pan  with  tlie  fish,  or  fry 
aepaiately,  as  judgment  may  dictate ;  serve  the  fish  vnth.  the  onions 
laid  round  them.  The  herrings  are  generally  fried  without  the 
onions,  but  those  who  are  partial  to  this  strongly  flavoured  vegetable, 
irill  prefer  the  addition. 

651. — ^TO  POT  HERRINGS. 

Take  from  one  to  two  dozen  herrings  accordinj^  to  the  number  you 
pirpoee  potting,  choose  Uiem  as  ]ar<:;e,  fine,  and  fresh  as  you  can. 
Take  two  ounces  of  salt,  one  of  saltpetre,  two  of  allspice,  reduce 
fliem  to  an  impalpable  powder,  and  rub  them  well  into  the  herrings ; 
lei  them  remain  with  the  spice  upon  them  eight  hours  to  drain,  wipe 
fjff  the  spice  clean  and  lay  diem  in  a  pan  on  which  butter  has  been 
Tabbed,  season  with  nutmeg,  mace,  white  pepper,  salt,  and  one  clove 
m  powder,  one  ounce  each  save  the  last ;  lay  in  two  or  three  bay 
IflSTes,  cover  with  butter  and  bake  gently  three  hours. 

When  cool,  drain  off  the  liquor,  pack  the  fish  in  the  pots  intended 
far  their  use,  cover  to  the  depth  of  half  an  inch  with  clarified  butter, 
sofficiently  melted  just  to  run,  but  do  not  permit  it  to  be  hot ;  they 
vill  be  ready  for  eating  in  two  days. 


562. LOBSTER   AS   SERVED. 


170  SALT  AND  FBE8H  WATEB  FISH* 


The  common  mode  of  sending  this  excellent  shell-fish  to  table  is 
very  generally  known.     We  subjoin  a  few  uncommon  modes. 


663. — LOBSTER CUBBIED. 

Take  the  meat  of  a  fine  lobster,  or  two,  if  they  should  be  small, 
place  in  a  stewpan  two  dessert-spoonfuls  of  curry  powder,  add  of 
butter  two  ounces,  an  onion  cut  in  very  fine  strips,  and  three  dessert- 
spoonfuls of  fish  stock.  When  they  are  stewed  well,  add  the  lobster, 
simmer  gently  for  an  hour,  squeeze  in  half  a  lemon,  season  with  a 
little  salt.  In  the  eastern  method  the  expressed  juice  of  spinach  is 
usually  added.  This  is  obtained  by  simply  putting  spinach,  withoat 
any  water,  into  a  saucepan,  and  when  done  enough,  press  out  the 
juice,  and  add  it  with  butter,  cayenne,  and  salt,  to  the  gravy.  Prawns 
may  be  dressed  in  this  fashion. 

554.— TO   STEW   LOBSTERS. 

Extract  from  the  shells  of  two  lobsters,  previously  boiled,  all  the 
meat ;  take  two-thirds  of  a  quart  of  water,  and  stew  the  shells  in  it, 
with  mace,  unground  pepper,  and  salt.  Let  it  boil  an  hour  or  more, 
till  you  have  obtained  all  that  is  to  be  got  from  the  shells ;  then 
strain.  Add  the  richest  portions  of  the  lobster,  and  some  of  the  beat 
of  the  firm  meat  to  some  thin  melted  butter;  squeeze  a  small  portion 
of  lemon  juice  into  it ;  add  a  table-spoonful  of  Madeira,  pour  this 
into  the  gravy,  and  when  warmed  it  is  ready  to  serve. 


556. LOBSTER   BUTTER. 

The  hen  lobster  should  be  selected,  on  account  of  the  coral;  take 
out  the  meat  and  spawn,  and  bruise  it  in  a  mortar ;  add  to  it  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  white  wine,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  a  little 
grated  lemon  peel ;  add  four  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  slightly  dusted 
over  with  flour.  Work  this  well  together,  and  then  rub  it  through  a 
hair  sieve ;  it  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to  serve. 


556. — TO    ROAST   LOBSTKRS. 

Take  live  lobster,  half  boil  it,  remove  it  from  the  kettle  in  which  it 
is  boiling,  dry  it  with  a  cloth,  while  hot  nib  it  over  with  butter,  set  it 
before  a  good  fire,  baste  it  with  butter ;  when  it  produces  a  fine  froth, 
it  is  done :  serve  with  melted  butter. 


567. — oRATiv  OF  LonnrBB. 

Take  out  all  the  meat  ftom  » large  lobster,  then  wash  the  body,  tail, 
and  shells,  if  the  lobster  was  first  cut  in  half  down  the  back,  then  dry 
them  and  butter  them,  and  sprinkle  them  with  bread  crumbs,  chop 
up  the  meat  fine,  and  a  little  parsley  and  shalot,  a  few  drops  of 
essence  of  anchovies,  a  spoonful  of  vinegar,  cayenne  pepper,  and 
salt,  a  little   bechamel  sauce,  boil  all  well  together,  add  a  yolk  of 


SALT  Aan>  FBE8H  WATER  FI0H.  171 

egg,  pat  it  to  cool,  then  fill  your  shells  or  paper  cases,  oorer  it  with 
bread  cmmbs  and  some  pieces  of  butter,  brown  them  in  the  oren, 
dish  on  a  napkin. 

558. — MACEEBEL. 

Cleanse  the  fish  thoroughlj  inside  and  out,  remove  the  roe  carefully, 
steep  it  in  vinegar  and  water,  and  replace  it ;  place  the  fish  in  water 
from  which  the  chill  has  been  taken,  and  boil  very  slowly  from  fifteen 
to  twenty  minutes,  the  best  criterion  is  to  be  found  in  the  starting  of 
the  eyes  and  spUttiug  of  the  tail,  when  that  takes  place  the  fish  is 
done  ;  take  it  out  of  the  water  instantly ^  or  you  will  not  preserve  it 
whole.  Garnish  with  fennel  or  parsley,  and  either  chopped  fine  in 
melted  butter,  serve  up  as  sauce.  Gooseberry  sauce  is  occasionally 
■ent  to  table,  but  it  does  not  suit  every  palate. 


559. — MACKEREL   PIE. 

You  may  do  the  same  as  No.  505,  but  do  not  lay  them  in  salt,  and 
use  fennel  and  mint  and  parsley. 


560. TO   BAKE    MACKEREL. 

Open  and  cleanse  thoroughly,  wipe  very  dry,  pepper  and  salt  the 
ide,  and  put  in  a  stuffing  composed  of  bread  crumbs  finely  powdered, 
the  roe  chopped  small,  parsley,  sweet  herbs,  very  few  of  the  latter ; 
nork  together  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  sew 
k  in  the  fish,  place  the  latter  in  a  deep  baking  dish,  dredge  it  with 
lofor  slightly,  add  a  little  cold  fresh  butter  in  small  pieces,  put  them 
into  an  oven,  and  twenty-eight  or  thirty  minutes  will  suffice  to  cook 
tkam. 
Send  them  in  a  hot  dish  to  table,  with  parsley  and  butter. 


661. A^'0THER   WAY. 

After  you  have  opened  and  cleaned  them  cut  off  the  heads  and 
tails,  rub  pepper  and  salt  into  them,  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish  with 
two  bay  leaves,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  a  table-spoonful  of  whole 
Wack  pepper,  pour  over  them  just  sufficient  to  cover  tbem  equal 
portions  of  vinegar  and  water ;  cover  the  dish  with  cartridge-paper, 
■ad  lit  it  down  closely ;  bake  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve  with 
Melted  hotter  and  parsley,  or  fennel  chopped  fine  in  it.  This  is  an 
ttcellent  way  when  the  fish  is  to  be  eaten  cold. 


502. — TO    BROIL  MACKEREL. 


Cleanse  it  well,  and  cut  with  a  sharp  knife,  a  gash  from  head  to 
tiil  of  the  mackerel,  just  sufficient  on  one  side  to  clear  tlie  backbone, 
pm  into  the  incision  a  little  pepper  (cayenne)  and  salt,  moistened 
ivUi  elaaified  butter,  broil  it  over  a  clear  ftre,  be  particular  that  tha 


172  SALT  AND  I'BESH  WATEB  FISH. 

bars  of  the  gridiron  are  well  rubbed  over  with  suet  to  prevent  the 
skin  of  the  mackerel  adhering  in  turning ;  the  sides  being  the  thin- 
nest part  will  be  first  done,  take  off  the  gridiron,  and  hold  it  m  front 
of  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  the  back  of  the  fish  being  next  the  fire, 
and  the  fish  will  be  thoroughly  done  ;  this  is  the  readiest  and  most 
effective  mode. 

The  sauce  may  be  the  same  as  for  boiled  mackerel,  or  sauce  k  la 
mattre  dli6t«l 


563. — BROILED  MACKEREL. ' 

Prepare  by  boiling  a  short  time  a  Httle  fennel,  parsley,  and  mint ; 
when  done  take  it  from  the  steaks,  and  chop  all  together  fine,  mix  a 
piece  of  butter  with  it,  a  dust'of  Hour,  pepper,  and  salt ;  cut  your  fish 
down  the  back  and  fill  it  with  this  stuffing ;  oil  your  gridiron  and  oil 
your  fish ;  broil  them  over  a  clear  slow  fire.     Fennel  sauce  in  a  boat. 


564. — ^BROILED   MACKEREL  BONES. 

Take  the  bones  from  the  dressed  fish,  butter  them  and  nib  them 
with  mustard,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt ;  send  up  with  the  wine  and 
cheese. 


^       565. — FILLETS  OF  MACKEREL. 

Talce  the  fish  in  fillets  from  the  bones  lengthways,  and  divide 
each  into  two  or  three  pieces,  according  to  the  size  of  the  fish. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  pint  of  fish  broth,  if  not  seasoned  in  the 
making  sufficiently,  add  a  little  cayenne  and  salt  to  taste,  chop 
finely  a  little  parsley,  part  of  the  rind  of  a  green  lemon,  if  to  be 
obtained,  if  not  as  young  a  one  as  can  be  got,  add  it  to  the  broth, 
lay  on  the  fillets,  stew  ten  or  twelve  minutes.  About  three  minutes 
before  the  fillets  are  done  add  one  glass  of  port  wine,  one  of  Harvey's 
sauce,  half  the  quantity  of  soy,  and  the  juice  of  a  quarter  of  a  lemon. 
When  tlie  fillets  are  done,  which  will  be  observable  in  the  disposition 
of  the  thinner  parts  beginning  to  crack  ;  dish  tenderly,  thicken  the 
sauce,  add  a  little  mixed  mustard,  and  pour  it  over  the  fillets. 
Garnish  with  pickles  or  fried  bread  sippets. 


566. — FILLETS   OF   MACKEREL. 

Three  good  mackerel  will  make  a  dish ;  cut  each  fillet  into  two, 
chop  some  fennel,  parsley,  and  mint  very  fine,  put  it  into  your  saute- 
pan  with  a  piece  of  butter,  fry  it  a  little,  then  dress  the  fillets  as 
before,  and  proceed  now  as  for  the  other  fillets,  adding  the  ingredients 
you  have  in  the  sautfe-pan  to  your  sauce. 


667. FILLETS   OF   MACKEREL. 

The  same  as  fillets  of  soles,  in  addition  you  will  add  chopped 
fennel  and  mint,  and  if  you  have  it  a  musluroom  chopped  fine,  all 


SALT  AND  FBESH  WATER  FISH. 


173 


ioto  jour  saut^pan  with  the  butter,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  cayenne 
and  white  pepper  and  salt. 

568. — ITLLLETS   BOILED. 

Separate  as  before,  place  them  in  a  stew-pan  in  lukewarm  water, 
pot  in  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  little  parsley ;  when  they  have  boiled 
fiye  minutes  they  will  be  done ;  this  may  be  tried  by  seeing  if  the 
flesh  divides  readily.  Remove  the  scum  as  fast  as  it  rises ;  drain 
the  fillets  before  dishing  them.     Serve  with  parsley  and  butter. 


560. ^TO  FBY  MACEEBEL. — ^A  LA  FRAN9AISE  OB  A  LA  MaItRE  d'h6tEL. 

It  may  be  observed,  as  a  rule  to  prevent  the  too  frequent  repe- 
tition of  the  same  thing,  that  it  is  to  be  supposed  the  fish  must  be 
tboioughly  cleansed  and  gutted,  imless  directions  to  the  contrary  are 
given :  supposing  then  die  fish  have  been  cleaned  and  emptied,  cut 
off  the  tails,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  lay  the  fish  completely  open, 
and  remove  the  back-bone ;  this  feat  should  be  skilfully  performed, 
or  the  appearance  of  the  fish  will  be  materially  altered,  and  by  no 
means  improved.     Dry  the  mackerel  thoroughly,  sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  when  the  lard  in  the 
fityingpan  is  boiling  lay  them  in,  and  fry  them  a  clear  brown.    Serve 
inth  melted  butter,  in  which  has  been  mixed  one  spoonful  Han'cy  s 
saace,  one  ditto  of  mustard,  and  two  of  Chili  vinegar,  or  boil  half  a 
dozen  small  onions,  and  while  boiling  rapidly  lay  in  a  young  cucum- 
ber one  minute,  with  a  faggot  of  fennel  and  parsley.     Chop  the 
hitter  finely,  and  cut  the  cucumber  into  shapes,  add  pepper  and  salt» 
pat  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  lump  of  butter  for  Uiree  or  four 
xmnntes,  place  the  vegetables  on  the  fish,  and  squeeze  a  large  lemon 
om  them. 


570. — STEWED    MACKEBEL. 

* 

A  marinade  must  be  made,  in  which  to  stew  the  fish,  consisting 
of  a  pint  of  gravy,  in  which  put  chopped,  almost  to  a  paste,  parsley, 
fnmel,  and  shidot,  the  latter  not  too  plentifully;  two  table-spoon- 
Ms  of  ketchup,  one  of  essence  of  anchovies,  and  a  lump  of  butter 
veil  floured,  about  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Keep  it  stirring  until  it 
boils,  add  one  glass  of  port  previous  to  boiling,  pour  it  in  by  slow 
degrees,  and  when  it  boils  lay  in  the  fish  which  has  been  thoroughly 
deaased  and  boned.  Stew  gently  twenty  minutes,  do  not  exceed 
tbat  time.  It  will  be  found  expedient  to  turn  them  when  half 
oooked,  but  do  not  attempt  it  if  you  cannot  iiccomplish  it  cleverly, 
fer  broken  fish  is  sure  to  be  the  result.  Dish  very  carefully ;  add 
to  the  sauce  a  tea-spoonful  of  French  mustard  mixed,  half  a  glass 
<rf  port  wine,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  ;  boil  it  up  and  pour  over 
the  fish. 


571. — RED   ML'LLET. 

There  are  various  ways  of  dressing  this  fish  which  has  obtained 


174  SALT  AmO  FRESH  WATBB  FISH. 

the  name  (^  the  sea  woodcock,  from  the  flaTonr  as  well  as  from  the 
peculiarity  of  dressing  it  without  drawing.  It  must  be  washed  in  very 
clean  water  and  dried  veiy  thoroughly  with  a  clean  doth,  it  must  nei- 
ther be  scaled  nor  gutted.  Make  paper  cases  of  foolscap  well  buttered, 
put  the  fish  in  them,  as  many  as  you  purpose  cooking,  each  fish  having 
a  separate  case,  and  broil  them  over  a  clear  fire.  The  paper  may  he 
securely  but  not  violently  listened  over  the  fish  with  twine.  Twenty 
^Ye  minutes  will  suffice  to  cook  them. 

Make  a  sauce  of  melted  butter,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  essence  of 
anchovies,  as  much  cayenne  as  will  cover  a  sixpence,  the  juice  of  a 
quarter  of  a  lemon,  and  a  glass  of  red  wine. 

It  is  customary  to  send  this  fish  to  table  in  its  proper  case,  the 
wine  must  therefore  be  removed,  and  a  small  fringe  of  white  paper 
affixed  to  the  tail  end  of  each  case  for  appearance,  but  at  vefy  recheiohe 
the  fish  are  served  on  wry  hot  plates  without  any  covering. 


67^.— BED  MULLET. 

If  in  paper  you  will  wrap  each  fish  in  paper,  four  will  make  a  smdl 
dish ;  then  lay  them  <hi  yoor  baking  dish  and  put  them  in  the  even, 
there  will  be  a  good  deal  of  liquor  come  finxn  them,  thicken  dns 
liquor,  and  if  not  sufficient  for  sauce  add  a  little  of  your  best  stock, 
two  glasses  of  Madeira,  a  spoonful  of  essence  d  anchovies,  lemon 
juice,  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  a  little  sugar ;  if  sent  up  in  the  papers 
the  sauce  will  be  put  in  a  sauce-boat,  if  not  you  will  pour  the  sanee 
over  the  fish. 


673. — RED   MULLET. 

Clean  it,  but  do  not  take  out  the  inside,  fold  in  oil  paper,  and 
gentJy  bake  in  a  small  dish;  make  a  sauce  of  the  liquor  which 
comes  from  the  fish,  adding  a  bit  of  butter,  a  little  flour,  a  little 
essence  of  anchovies,  and  a  glass  of  sherry;  give  it  a  boil,  and  serve 
it  in  a  sauce  boat,  and  serve  the  fish  in  the  paper  cases. 


574.^-GRSY  MULLET. 

This  is  a  fish  of  a  veiy  different  flavour  and  character  to  the  pi^ce- 
ding.  It  may  be  boiled,  broiled,  roasted,  or  baked  ;  when  small  ft 
may  be  cooked  in  the  usual  fashion  of  dressing  such  fish  as  whitings 
&c, — if  large  it  may  be  cooked  as  cod  or  salmon.  ^^ 

575.— OTSTEBS   1   LA   IMP^:ilIALE. 

Procure  of  a  fishmonger  a  barrel  of  oysters,  packed  as  for  trans- 
mission to  the  country.  Put  into  a  vessel  large  enough  to  contain 
the  barrel  sufficient  water,  that  when  the  barrel  is  in,  it  may  be 
covered.  Heat  the  water  to  a  boil ;  when  it  is  boiling,  put  in  the 
barrel  of  oysters  just  as  you  have  received  it  from  the  fishmongers ; 
let  it  boil  twelve  minutes ;  take  it  out,  knock  off  the  head,  and  serve 
immediately.     The  flavour  of  the  hot  oyster  will  be  found  delicious. 


SALT  AHI>  FRESH  WATER  WISH.  175 

576.— SGAULOP  OTBZBBS. 

ih  detn  tome  bottom  shells  of  tbeojttflnif  joahaTenotsilTer 
or  aosUop  shells,  butter  and  bread  cmmb  diem,  blanch  your 
ii  either  do  them  whole  or  cat  them,  make  a  thick  sauce  with 
nor  adding  a  good  spoonful  of  white  sauce,  season  with  cayenne 
*  and  salt,  fill  in  the  shells  and  bread  crumbs  on  the  top,  and 
le  clarified  butter  on  the  tops,  brown  in  the  oyen— dish  them 
ini^kin. 

577. — ROAST  OT8TEB8. 

je  oysters  not  opened,  a  few  minutes  before  they  are  wanted, 
mi  on  a  gridiron  otot  a  moderate  fire.  When  done  they  will 
lo  not  lose  the  liquor  that  is  in  the  shell  with  the  oysters,  send 
lot  upon  a  napkin. 

578.— AH  OYSTEK  PnS,   WITH  SWKETBBBAIML 

A  them  and  take  off  the  beards,  separate  them  firom  the 
blanch  some  throat  sweetbreads,  and  men  cold  cut  them  in 
then  lay  them  and  the  oysters  in  layers  in  your  dish,  season 
It,  pepper,  a  few  grains  of  mace  and  nutmeg ;  add  some  thick 
k  liUle  cream,  and  the  oyster  liquor,  and  some  good  yeal  stock; 
a  slow  oven. 


579.. 

oysters  rixmld  be  bearded  and  rinced  in  their  own  liquor, 
hovld  then  be  strained  and  thickened  with  flower  and  butter, 
eed  with  the  oysters  in  a  stewpan ;  add  mace,  lemon  peel  cut 
leads,  some  wlute  pepper  whole ;  these  ingredients  had  better 
fined  in  a  piece  of  muslin.  The  stew  must  simmer  only,  if 
fered  to  bou  the  oysters  will  become  hard;  serve  with  sippets 
d.  This  may  be  yaried  by  adding  a  glass  of  wine  to  the 
befiire  the  oysters  are  put  in  and  warmed. 

580.— SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

1  the  oysters,  wash  in  their  own  liquor,  steep  bread  crumbs 
Btter,  put  them  with  the  oysters  in  to  scallop  shells,  with  a 
utter  and  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  grated  nut- 
lake  a  paste  with  bread  crumbs  and  butter;  cover,  and  roast 
ifore  the  fire,  or  in  an  oven. 


581.— OYSTEBS. 

ten  immediately  upon  being  opened,  neither  vinegar  nor  pep- 
dd  be  taken  with  them,  or  the  flavour  will  disappear  in  the 
the  vinegar. 

58d.— OYSTEB  FBITTEB8. 

[,  dip  them  into  an  omelette,  sprinkle  well  with  crumbs  of 
Tj  them  brown. 


176  SALT  AND  FBESH  WATER  FISH. 


583.— JACK  OB  PIKE  TO  CHOOSE. 

If  the  fish  is  fresh  the  gills  will  be  red,  the  fish  stiff,  and  eyes 
bright;  the  best  sort  are  caught  in  rivers,  the  worst  are  caught  in 
ponds  ;  it  is  a  very  dry  fish,  and  Tory  much  improved  by  stufEuig  and 
sauce ;  they  are  not  thought  much  of  in  England,  but  are  much  liked 
in  iuland  counties. 


684. — TO   BAKE   PIKE. 

Clean  and  empty  it  thoroughly,  but  do  not  disturb  the  scales  in  the 
operation,  stuff  it  with  oyster  forcemeat,  and  skewer  the  tail  to  the 
mouth,  sprinkle  over  it  a  little  salt,  and  dredge  a  little  fiour,  stick 
small  pieces  of  butter  all  over  it,  and  bake  in  a  steady  oven  forty  to 
fifty  minutes  ;  you  must  be  regulated  by  the  size  of  the  fish.  To  the 
sauce  which  will  be  found  in  the  dish  when  the  pike  is  done,  a  little 
melted  butter  with  a  spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovies  may  be  added, 
and  a  small  quantity  of  grated  lemon  peel  or  lemon  pickle,  also  a 
table-spoonful  of  sherry,  one  of  Harvey's  sauce,  and  a  little  cayenne, 
will  render  the  gravy  exceedingly  pleasant. 


686. PIKE — TO  BOFL. 

Wash  and  clean  the  fish  thoroughly,  unless  you  are  very  par- 
ticular you  will  not  conquer  an  earthy  taste,  which  from  a  want 
of  the  proper  application  of  the  cook*s  art,  too  often  appears.  It  is 
usual  to  stuff  it  with  forcemeat,  more  for  the  purpose  of  destroying 
that  peculiarity  than  from  any  additional  flavour  or  zest  it  gives  the 
fish.  Having  cleaned  well  and  stuffed  with  forcemeat,  skewer  the 
head  to  the  t£al,  lay  it  upon  a  drainer  and  put  it  in  the  fish  kettle,  let 
it  have  plenty  of  water  into  which  you  may  throw  a  handful  of  salt 
and  a  glassful  of  vinegar ;  when  it  boils  remove  the  scum  as  fast  as 
it  rises,  it  will  take  three  quarters  of  an  hour  if  a  tolerable  size,  if 
very  large  an  hour,  if  small  half  an  hour ;  serve  with  melted  butter 
and  lemon  sliced  or  whole.  Some  persons  prefer  anchovy  sauce,  some 
Dutch  ;  they  may  each  be  eaten  with  the  fish.  It  is  always  the  best 
method  where  a  variety  of  fancies,  each  not  in  itself  incorrect,  are 
applied  to  the  use  of  various  sauces,  to  send  the  sauce  cruets  to  table 
and  permit  every  one  to  gratify  his  peculiar  taste. 


586. — PRAWNS. 

If  you  have  no  lemon  for  garniture,  get  the  dish  they  are  to  go  upon 
and  likewise  another  of  the  same  size,  turn  one  bottom  upwards,  then 
dish  your  prawns  one  by  one  with  the  heads  inwards  upon  their  backs 
touching  each  other ;  when  you  have  got  quite  round  the  bottom  of 
the  dish,  take  a  handful  of  tightly  squeezed  picked  parsley,  and  put 
into  the  middle,  take  the  other  dish,  and  put  on  to  it  holding  it  tight 
wth  your  finger  and  thumb,  turn  it  over,  take  off  the  dish,  add  then 
some  more  upon  them,  use  cucumber  or  parsley  round  them* 


8ALT  AKD  FBE8H  WATER  FISH.  177 


[  687.— PRAWNS — TO  BOIL. 

PmwiiB  require  plenty  of  boiling  i;?ater,  when  the  water  boils  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  for  each  three  quarts  of  water,  let  the  water 
boil  rery  fast,  clear  off  the  scum  and  toss  in  the  prawns,  keep  them 
boiling  as  Hast  as  you  can  for  seven  or  eight  minutes ;  take  them  out 
and  dzBin  them,  keep  them  in  a  cool  place.  They  are  sent  to  table 
on  a  napkin  with  dry  toast  and  fresh  butter,  or  brown  bread  and 
batter  in  slices 


688. — PRAWNau 

Dish  them  upon  a  large  lemon,  sticking  the  horn  on  the  head  into 
the  lemon,  beginning  from  the  bottom  and  keep  going  round  imtil 
joa  get  at  the  top,  introduce  a  few  purees  of  parsley  between,  put  the 
kmon  upon  a  napkin  or  cut  paper. 


689. — PRAWNS. 

"When  in  perfection  they  have  an  excellent  smell,  and  their  flavour 
is  yery  sweet,  they  are  ^rm  and  stiff,  the  tails  which  turn  inwards 
particularly.  When  the  prawns  are  fresh  their  colour  is  very  bright, 
but  if  stale  they  are  pale  and  clammy  to  the  touch. 


690. PLAICE 

And  Flounders  should  be  sprinkled  with  salt,  and  wrapped  in  a 
txmel  an  hour  previous  to  cooking,  and  be  fried  as  soles,  &c. 


691. PRAWNS   TO    SERVE. 

Take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  prawns ;  pick,  and  trim  them 
aeatlf;  have  ready  a  deep  dish  or  soup  plate,  the  centre  of  which  fill 
witli  any  sort  of  salading  you  please,  provided  it  has  no  smell ;  cover 
tins  "witii  a  large  napkin,  folded  square,  and  tlie  comers  turned  down, 
ao  as  to  form  an  octagon,  leaving  no  more  than  the  border  of  the 
piate  or  dish  visible.  Place  a  handful  of  nice  green  parsley  on  the 
napkin,  and  the  prawns  in  a  p}Tamid  on  it. 

692. — ^DRESSED   SALMON.' 

All  salmon  whether  crimped,  split,  or  in  slices,  let  them  go 
throogh  the  same  process  in  dressing,  you  can  differ  your  sauces  as 
may  be  most  approved  of. 

Pot  your  salmon  either  in  your  fish  kettle  or  a  large  baking  dish, 
if  a  dish  you  must  cover  it  with  buttered  paper,  and  frequently  basto 
it  with  the  marinade,  which  is  made  thus ;— cut  a  carrot,  turnip, 
celeiy,  onions,  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  two  blades  of  mace,  whole 
pepper,  six  doves,  a  bay  leaf,  six  anchovies,  a  cup  of  vinegar,  a  quart 
of  good  brown  second  stock,  two  glasses  of  sherry; — ^then  put  on 
joor  salmon,  letting  it  stew  until  done,  then  drain  off  all  the  stock 
fiom  the  fiab,  and  thicken  it  and  strain  it  through  a  tammy;  if  f(» 


I 

N 


178  SALT  AJSTD  FRESH  WATER  FI8HL 

capers,  add  them  in  the  sauce  you  liave  put  through  the  tammy  and 
boil  it  for  some  time  removing  all  grease  that  rises,  season  with 
lemon  juice,  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and  sugar,  if  required  a  little 
essence  of  anchovies.     Pour  this  sauce  over  the  fish. 

Get  about  two  pounds  of  salmon  rather  thick  part,  and  with  a 
sharp  knife  cut  it  as  you  would  as  near  as  possible  the  shape  of  cudetSy 
have  ready  a  saute-pan  with  some  clarified  butter  and  a  little  cayenne 
pepper,  pass  each  cutlet  through  the  butter ;  when  you  have  filled 
the  pan  with  about  sLxteen  cutlets,  if  for  a  corner  dish  that  is 
sufficient,  out  a  paper  round  and  butter  it  and  put  it  over  your  cutlets, 
then  put  them  either  in  your  oven  or  on  your  hot  plate  or  stove,  be 
careful  in  turning  them,  take  them  out  of  the  saute-pan  or  paper  to 
dry  away  the  grease,  have  some  good  brown  sauce  ready;  after  taking 
off  the  fat  from  what  they  were  done  in,  put  the  remainder  good  into 
your  sauce,  add  a  few  drops  of  anchovy  sauce,  lemon  juice,  a  little 
sugar,  a  glass  of  wine,  boil  well  for  some  time,  dish  your  cutlets  one 
on  the  other  round,  cither  glaze  them  or  pour  the  sauce  over  them. 


593. — CBIMTED  SALMON — A  LA  CBEME. 

The  salmon,  like  cod,  must  be  qidu  fresh  or  it  will  not  crimp.  Cut 
tlie  body  into  slices  about  two  inches  thick ;  have  ready  some  salt  and 
water  in  the  proportion  of  three  ounces  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water, 
with  the  smallest  knob  of  saltpetre  about  the  size  of  a  nut,  dip  the 
salmon  slices  into  this  as  they  are  cut,  hold  them  for  half  a  minute, 
and  then  rinse  them  in  clear  cold  spring  water  and  lay  them  upon  a 
dish,  put  a  lump  of  butter  well  rubbed  in  flour  into  a  stewpan,  wlule 
the  butter  is  melting  sprinkle  in  a  little  salt  and  cayenne,  and  when 
the  butter  is  on  the  simmer  stir  in  half  a  pint  of  cream,  keep  stirring, 
and  as  it  boils  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  quarter  of  a  lemon,  and  stir 
ui  a  large  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovies,  add  a  little  more  salt 
to  taste. 

Having  boiled  the  crimped  salmon  in  quick  boiling  water  ten 
minutes,  take  them  out  and  let  them  drain  one  minute,  put  them  in 
a  clean  stewpan  and  pour  over  the  prepared  cream  and  let  it  simmer 
ten  minutes,  it  should  not  if  possible  be  suffered  to  boil. 

The  lemon  juice  is  sometimes  deferred  until  the  fish  is  removed 
from  the  cream,  a  minute's  simmer  is  allowed,  and  it  is  then  all 
poured  over  the  salmon  and  sent  very  hot  to  table. 


594. — TO   DRY    SALMON. 

Open  the  fish,  remove  the  whole  of  the  inside,  including  the  roe. 
Scald  it,  and  then  rub  it  with  common  salt ;  hang  it  to  drain  from 
twenty-four  to  thirty  hours. 

Mix  well  two  ounces  of  Foot  s  sugar,  the  same  quantity  of  bay 
salt,  three  ounces  of  salpetre ;  rub  the  mixture  thoroughly  into  the 
salmon ;  place  it  upon  a  dish,  and  suffer  it  to  remain  for  ibrty-eigbt 
hours,  and  then  rub  it  with  common  salt.  Let  it  remain  until  the 
succeeding  evening,  it  will  then  be  ready  to  dry.^  Wipe  it  thoroughly 


lALT  AND  FBESH  WATEB  FISH.  179 


after  diying;  spread  it  open  with 
efaimney  wliere  a  wood  fire  is  burned. 


695. ^SALMON   POTTED. 

Cut  a  handsome  piece  from  the  middle  of  the  sahnon ;  remove  the 
scales,  and  wipe  it  with  a  clean  cloth.  Hub  into  it  some  common 
flftit  thoroughly. 

Beat  up  some  mace,  cloves,  and  whole  pepper ;  season  the  salmon 
with  it;  place  it  in  a  pan  with  a  few  bay  leaves;  cover  it  with 
butter,  and  bake  it  until  thoroughly  done ;  remove  it  from  the  gravy , 
letting  it  drain  thoroughly,  then  place  it  in  the  pots.  Clarify  suf- 
ficient butter  to  cover  all  the  pots  after  the  salmon  has  been  put  into 
tbem:  put  it  to  cool. 

506. — TO   PICKLK  SALMON. 

Scale,  clean,  split,  and  divide  into  handsome  pieces  the  salmon ; 
place  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  stewpau,  with  just  sullicient  water  to 
cover  them. 

Put  into  three  quarts  of  water  one  pint  of  vinegar,  a  dozen  bay 
leaTes,  half  that  quantity  of  mace,  a  handful  of  salt,  and  a  fourth 
part  of  an  ounce  of  black  pepper. 

When  the  salmon  is  sufficiently  boiled  remove  it,  drain  it,  place  it 
upon  a  doth.  Put  in  the  kettle  anot}\er  layer  of  salmon ;  pour  over 
it  the  liquor  which  you  have  prepared,  and  keep  it  until  the  salmon 
is  done.  Then  remove  the  fish,  place  it  in  a  deep  dish  or  pan, 
coTer  it  with  the  pickle,  which,  if  not  sufficiently  acid,  may  receive 
more  vinegar  and  salt,  and  be  boiled  forty  minutes.  Let  the  air  be 
kept  from  the  fish,  and,  if  kept  for  any  length  of  time,  it  will  be 
fomid  necessary  to  occasionally  drain  the  hquor  from  the  fish,  skim, 
tnd  boil  it. 


'    397. — COLLABED   SALMON. 

Cut  off  the  head  and  shoulders  and  the  thinnest  part  of  the  tail, 
tiius  leaving  the  primest  part  of  the  salmon  to  bo  collared.  Split  it, 
and  having  washed  and  wiped  it  well,  make  a  compound  of  cayenne 
pepper,  white  pepper,  a  little  salt,  and  some  pounded  mace.  Rub 
the  fish  well  with  this  mixture  inside  and  out ;  roll,  and  bandage 
with  broad  tape,  lay  it  in  a  saucepan,  cover  it  with  water  and  vinegar, 
one  part  of  the  latter  to  two  of  the  former ;  add  a  table-spoonful  of 
pepper,  black  and  white  whole,  two  bay  leaves,  and  some  salt.  Keep 
the  lid  closed  down.  Simmer  until  enough,  strain  oil  the  liquor ;  let 
it  cool,  pour  over  the  fish  when  cold ;  garnish  with  fennel. 

:J98. — SALMON — TO   BOIL. 

This  fish  cannot  be  too  soon  cooked  after  being  caught ;  it  sliould 
be  put  into  a  kettle  with  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  a  handful  of  salt, 
the  addition  of  a  small  quantity  of  vinegar  will  add  to  the  firmness 

K  2 


180  SALT  AND  FRESH  WATEB  FISH. 

of  the  fish ;  let  it  boil  gentlj;  if  four  pounds  of  salmon  fifty  minutes 
will  suffice ;  if  thick  a  few  minutes  more  may  be  cJlowed.  The  best 
criterion  for  ascertaining  whether  it  be  done,  is  to  pass  a  knife  between 
the  bone  and  the  fish,  if  it  separates  readily,  it  is  done  ;  this  should 
be  tried  in  the  thickest  part ;  when  cooked  lay  it  on  the  fish  strainer 
transversely  across  the  kettle,  so  that  the  fish,  while  draining,  may  be 
kept  hot.  Place  a  fish  plate  upon  the  dish  on  which  the  salmon  is  to 
be  served,  fold  a  clean  white  napkin,  lay  it  upon  the  fish  plate,  and 
place  the  salmon  upon  the  napkin.    Garnish  with  parsley. 


699. — SALMON  EN  PAPILL0TE8. 

'  Get  small  slices  of  salmon,  (See  524),  fold  them  neatly  in  foolscap 
paper,  after  having  buttered  your  paper  well,  pepper  and  salt  the*paper 
and  flour  it  I  generally  put  them  in  the  oven  for  a  short  time,  then 
do  them  on  the  gridiron  over  the  stove ;  in  this  case  dish  as  usual  on 
a  napkin,  and  send  your  sauce  in  a  boat  made  as  either  of  the  former 
sauces,  unless  shrimp,  lobster,  or  anchovy  sauce  is  preferred. 


600. — SALMON  BROILED. 

Cut  the  fish  in  sKces  from  the  best  part,  each  slice  should  be  an 
inch  thick ;  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt ;  wrap  each  slice  in 
white  paper,  which  has  been  buttered  vrith  fresh  butter ;  fasten  each 
end  by  twisting  or  tying;  broil  over  a  very  clear ^fire  eight  minutes. 
A  coke  fire,  if  kept  clear  and  bright,  is  best.  Serve  with  butter, 
anchovy,  or  tomata  sauce. 


CO  I. — DRIED   SALMON   BROILED. 

Cut  and  cook  as  above,  save  that  when  it  is  warmed  through  it  is 
enough.  Serve  plain  for  breakfast,  or  with  egg  sauce  if  fer 
(.inner. 


602. — SALMON  ROASTED. 

Take  a  large  piece  of  the  middle  of  a  very  fine  salmon,  dredge 
well  with  flour,  and  while  roasting  baste  it  with  butter.  Serve,  gar- 
nished witli  lemon. 


603. — STEWED    SALMON. 

Scrape  the  scales  clean  ofi*,  cut  it  in  slices,  stew  them  in  rich  white 
gravy,  add  immediately  previous  to  serving  one  table-spoonful  of 
essence  of  anchovies,  a  litUe  parsley  chopped  very  fine,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt. 


604.— QUENELLES  OR  PUDDING. 

''  Use  any  salmon  you  may  have  left,  pick  it  free  firom  all  bones  and 
skin,  put  a  crumb  of  a  French  roll  or  some  light  crumb  of  bread  in 
half  a  pint  of  milk,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  small  chalot,  or  onion,  put 


SALT  AND  FBESH  WATER  FISH.  181 

it  an  to  bofl  until  dried  up,  stir  it  and  keep  it  from  burning,  then  put 
it  to  get  cold;  pound  the  salmon  well,  then  add  the  boiled  fat,  taking 
out  the  onion  and  parsley,  put  about  two  ounces  of  butter  with  it, 
pound  all  well,  then  rub  it  through  a  wire  seive,  when  done  return  it 
back  into  the  mortar,  and  add,  according  to  the  quantity,  two  yolks  of 
eggs  and  one  whole  egg,  a  little  essence  of  anchovies,  cayenne  pepper, 
a  fittle  white  pepper,  salt,  and  a  dust  of  sugar.  Have  a  stewpan  of 
boiling  water  ready,  take  out  a  piece  and  boil  it  to  see  if  it  is  light 
or  does  not  drop  to  pieces  ;  liave  your  small  or  large  moulds  ready 
and  well  buttered,  six  small  ones  make  sufficient  for  a  dish ;  if  for  a 
corner,  put  buttered  paper  over  each  mould.  To  stew  them  have  a 
stewpan  sufficiently  large  to  hold  them,  line  the  bottom  with  paper, 
and  only  put  sufficient  water  to  come  half  up  the  mould,  mind  the 
corer  fits  quite  close,  and  be  sure  it  boils,  then  put  them  in ;  the  small 
ones  will  take  about  half  an  hour,  when  done  drain  the  grease  well 
firom  them,  before  dishing  them  pour  the  sauce  in  the  middle. 


605. — PUDDING   OR   QUENELLES. 

Ton  will  proceed  as  before  viith  salmon  if  from  dressed  fish ;  if  from 
other  fish  scrape  all  the  meat  from  the  skin  and  bones,  and  use  two 
fiUeted  anchovies  pounded  with  the  fish  instead  of  any  essence,  and  it 
will  take  longer  to  stew  than  dressed  fish,  the  sauce  as  for  fillets  of 
soles,  leaving  out  the  chopped  parsley. 


COO.— SOLES. 

Soles  should  be  skinned  and  trimmed  by  the  fishmonger.  If  fried 
plain,  dry  them  well  with  a  clean  cloth,  fiour  them  with  a  dredge,  the 
pan  should  be  well  cleaned,  and  a  quantity  of  lard  placed  in  it. 
It  should  be  boiling  hot,  before  the  fish  is  placed  into  the  pan  brovm 
them  nicely,  dish  with  care ;  or  they  may,  instead  of  being  floured, 
be  coated  with  the  yolk  of  eggs  beaten  up  with  bread  crumbs,  previous 
to  frying,  they  should  be  a  light  but  not  a  pale  brown  when  cooked. 


007. — SOLES — BOILED. 

Choose  a  large  thick  sole,  wash  and  clean  thoroughly  without 
intorbing  the  roe  or  the  melt,  lay  it  in  a  fish  kettle  with  enough  cold 
Wer  to  cover  it,  throw  in  a  handful  of  salt,  let  it  come  gradually  to 
i  boil,  and  having  kept  the  water  well  skimmed,  place  the  kettle  by 
the  side  of  the  fire,  and  in  eight  minutes  the  sole  will  be  sufficiently 
cooked  to^  dish,  serve  with  shrimp  sauce,  cucumber  shced  and 
dresBed. 


608. — FILLETS,    BREAD   CRUMBED. 

The  fillets  you  will  roll  up  and  fasten  together  with  a  small 
ikewer  or  fine  string  round  them ;  proceed  exactly  as  for  bread 
cnimbed  soles,  they  will  take  a  little  longer  to  fiy.  stand  them 
up  endways  to  dish  them  whether  for  garnish  or  a  dish ;  be  sure  to 
raw  out  tbe  skewer  or  the  string. 


182  SALT  Aim  FRESH  WATER  FISH. 


600.— -FILLETB  OF  80LK8  MAKE   ▲  GOOD  FIE. 

Got  each  fillet  in  half  and  lay  them  in  joar  dish,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  layer  of  oysters,  chopfi^d  panley,  and  aome  oyster 
liquor,  with  some  good  stock,  or  white  sauce  into  die  dish  is  host,  add 
a  gill  of  cream. 

610. — SOLES  A  LA  POBTUOUESE. 

split  two  small  soles  or  cut  one  large  one  in  half  and  bone  it,  fiy 
the  fish  slightly  in  a  pan  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon 
juice,  take  it  out  and  place  on  each  piece  of  fish  a  layer  of  stufiing  or 
forcemeat,  roll  it  up  leaving  the  head  for  the  outside,  secure  each 
roll  with  a  small  skewer. 

Lay  them  in  a  pan,  an  earthenware  one  will  be  found  the  best ; 
moisten  them  with  a  well  beaten  egg,  and  cover  them  with  bread 
crumbs. 

To  a  cup-full  of  meat  gravy  put  one  table-spoonful  of  essence  of 
anchovy  and  some  minced  parsley,  mix  with  it  the  remains  of  the 
egg  used  to  moisten  the  rolls  with,  and  pour  it  over  them,  then  cover 
down  closely  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  fish  are  done,  they 
will  take  about  twenty  minutes.  Lay  the  rolls  in  a  very  hot  dish  with 
the  heads  to  each  other,  skim  the  gravy  cleanly  and  quickly,  poor  it 
over  them  and  serve. 

Garnish  with  fried  parsley. 


611. — SOLES  AU'^PLAT. 

Bone  the  soles,  trim  them,  take  off  the  heads  and  lay  them  in  a 
dish  in  which  you  bave  poured  about  two  ounces  of  clarified  butter,  a 
table-spoonful  of  white  broth,  the  juice  of  a  quarter  of  a  lemon,  half 
a  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovies,  some  parsley  chopped  as  finely 
as  possible,  and  a  sprinkling  of  cayenne  pepper.  Previously  to  laying 
the  soles  upon  this  compound,  brush  them  over  lightly  with  the  yolk 
of  an  egg,  and  strew  finely  powdered  bread  crumbs  over  them  ;  bake 
them  t>yenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven,  serve  in  the  dish  ¥dth  the 
sauce. 


612. — FILLETS  OF  SOLES,  ICAiXRE  D*h6TIL. 

Get  four  good  sized  soles  filleted,  beat  each  fillet  with  yout  cutlet 
beater,  dipping  your  cutlet  beater  into  cold  water  frequently ;  then 
cut  each  fillet  into  three,  rounding  one  end  and  leaving  the  other  as 
a  point  to  form  a  cutlet;  have  ready  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
clarified  butter  in  a  saut^-pan,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  cayenne 
pepper,  and  salt,  mix  well  together,  dip  each  cutlet  as  you  cut  it  both 
sides  in  this,  keeping  the  cutlets  in  the  saut6-pan ;  about  twenty  four 
cutlets  will  make  a  comer  dish,  paper  them  over,  and  either  do  them 
in  tlie  oven  or  on  the  stove ;  when  done  take  them  out  of  the  saut6- 
pan  to  drain,  keep  them  hot  until  you  dish  them;  the  bones  and 
trimmings  with  what  is  left  in  your  saut^-pan  make  the  sauce  from ; 
put  all  your  trimmings  into  a  stewpan  with  a  quart  of  stock,  four 


SALT  AND  FBESH  WATEB  FISH.  183 

andumeSy  reduce  it  down  to  half  a  pint,  thicken  it,  and  strain  it 
thnm^  a  tammy  into  a  dean  stewpan,  add  a  gill  of  cream,  hare 
ready  aome  very  fine  chopped  parsley  to  sprinkle  over  the  last  thing, 
poor  the  aance  oyer  your  fish.     Dish  as  cutlets. 

dl3.~-FILLKTS  OF  SOLES  FBIED,  TO  00  ROUND  OTHER  FISH. 

Cut  and  prepare  your  soles  as  before,  only  laying  each  cutlet  in  a 
doth  to  dry,  and  well  flour  them ;  then  egg  them  and  bread  crumb 
them,  let  your  bread  be  put  through  a  wire  sieve,  put  a  little  flour 
and  salt  to  the  crumbs ;  have  ready  in  a  stewpan  some  lard  or  oil,  if 
bt  a  catholic  or  Jew  s  family,  oil  when  quite  hot,  which  you  will 
know  by  dropping  into  it  a  sprinkle  of  crumbs  fried,  and  if  it  makes 
a  great  noise  it  is  hot ;  then  put  in  three  or  four  cutlets  shaking  them 
aboat  until  a  nice  light  brown,  take  them  out  to  drain  on  paper,  keep 
them  hot,  if  for  a  dish  by  themselves ;  fiy  at  the  same  time  a  good 
handful  of  parsley.  In  doing  this,  to  prevent  accidents,  take  your 
stewpan  off  the  fire  and  hold  it  over  the  drippiug-pan  from  you,  then 
all  at  once  throw  in  your  parsley,  you  may  in  a  minute  return  it  to 
the  fire  until  crisp  and  green. 


614. — FILLETS  OF  SOLES  IN  ASPIC. 

Cut  the  fillets  of  soles  as  for  cutlets,  and  saute  them  the  same, 
keeping  them  white  and  free  from  grease,  dish  them  round  the  inside 
of  tne  mould  and  ornament  as  before,  if  ornament  is  liked;  or,  dish 
them  round  your  dish,  a  little  small  salad  or  lettuce  in  the  middle, 
diopped  aspic  round,  and  cut  cucumber  in  thin  shoes  as  a  border  to 
your  dish. 

615. SKATE 

*  Hay  be  cut  into  pieces,  and  fried  in  oil,  with  parsley,  an  onion  cut 
in  alioes,  and  sweet  herbs ;  when  sufficiently  cooked,  pour  off  the 
fiU.  Throw  into  the  pan  a  small  tea-cupful  of  vinegar,  the  same 
quantity  of  water ;  stir  it  with  the  herbs,  and  dredge  with  flour,  imtil 
a  good  consistency;  add  capers  the  last  thing  before  sending  to 
table. 


616.— CRIMPED   SKATE. 

Bemove  the  skin  from  both  sides  of  the  fish,  cut  it  in  pieces  of  less 
than  two  inches  tlie  whole  length  of  the  fish ;  roll  and  tie  with  thin 
twine,  put  into  three  quarts  of  water  a  handful  of  stilt  and  half  a  tea- 
cupful  of  vinegar,  soak  the  rolls  for  three  hours,  then  boil  them  in 
more  than  sufficient  water  to  cover  them,  add  two  ounces  of  salt  to 
each  quart  of  water,  and  three  large  onions  cut  in  slices,  let  it  boil  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  take  them  out  and  remove  the  twine  without 
iiyuiy  to  the  fish,  sene  with  anchovy  sauce. 

617. — STURGEON   BOILED. 

Soak  the  fish  in  salt  and  water  four  hours,  remove  it  and  bathe 


184  8ALT  AND  FRESH  WATER  FUDBL 


with  pyroligneous  acid  diluted  with  water,  let  it  drain  an  hoar,  then 
put  it  into  boiling  water,  let  it  be  well  covered,  add  three  omons,  a 
fjEiggot  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  small  quantity  of  baj-salt.  When  it  is 
boiled  so  tender  that  the  bones  will  separate  readily  remoTe  it  from 
the  fire,  take  away  bones  and  skin,  cut  it  into  slices,  dredge  it  with 
flour,  brown  it  before  the  fire,  and  serve  with  a  grayy,  the  same  as 
given  above  for  roasting. 


618. — STURGEON   BROILED. 

Cut  a  fine  piece  of  the  fish,  and  skinning  it  divide  it  into 
Beat  up  three  eggs,  and  dip  each  of  the  sUces  into  them,  powder 
fine  ^bread  crumbs  mixed  with  finely  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and 
salt  over  them,  fold  them  in  paper,  and  broil  them,  being  carefiil 
that  the  fire  is  clear.  Send  them  to  table  with  essence  of  anchovies, 
and  soy,  accompanied  by  cold  butter. 


619. — BEFORE   YOU  BAKE  STURGEON, 

Let  it  lie  several  hours  in  salt  and  vrster,  then  boil  it  until  the 
bones  can  be  removed ;  pour  vinegar  over  your  fish  and  in  the  water 
and  salt.  When  done  take  it  out  to  cool,  then  egg  and  bread  crumb  it, 
then  sprinkle  clarified  butter  over  it,  place  it  in  a  moderate  hot  oven 
to  brown,  make  a  very  thick  sauce  from  your  kidneys  and  good  stock, 
with  a  table-spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovies,  season  it  with  cayenne 
pepper,  salt,  dust  of  sugar,  juice  of  lemon,  and  a  glass  of  wine. 


620. FILLETS    OF    STURGEON. 

Either  for  a  comer  dish  in  a  large  dinner,  or  a  top  remove.  Cut 
your  fish  in  rather  thick  slices,  saut^  them  as  for  fillets  of  soles  a 
little,  place  them  in  a  stewpan  regularly  round,  with  an  onion  and  a 
iiEiggot  of  sweet  herbs,  three  small  onions,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  a 
few  cloves,  and  some  whole  pepper,  put  the  liquor  from  your  saut^- 
pan  into  them,  with  three  or  four  whole  anchovies,  a  glass  of  white 
wine  and  some  good  second  stock,  stew  it  gently  until  tender,  carefully 
take  out  the  cutlets,  thicken  the  sauce,  if  you  want  them  white  add 
a  gill  of  cream ;  season  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  cayenne  pepper, 
and  salt,  and  a  dust  of  sugar.  Dish  them  as  cutlets,  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  them. 


621. — STURGEON   ROASTED. 

Cut  into  slices  as  above,  but  do  not  remove  the  skin,  split  the 
pieces  on  a  cork-spit,  roast  tenderly  basting  frequently  with  butter. 
Make  a  brown  gravy,  flavour  it  with  essence  of  anchovies ;  squeeze  in 
a  quarter  of  a  lemon  and  add  a  glass  of  sherry,  serve  up  with  the  fish. 


622. — STURGEON  STEWED. 

Cut  into  pieces,  and  stew  as  tench. 


SALT  AND  FRESH  WATER  FISH.  185 

623. FILLETS   OF   STURGEON,  IIAItBE  D*h6tEL. 

Prepare  the  fish  as  before,  leaving  out  the  wine  and  add  some  yerj 
fine  chopped  parsley,  and  shalots  and  cream. 


624. SHBIMP  toast — CBOUTE  AUX  CREVELLE8 — FRENCH. 

Boil  five  pints  of  shrimps,  and  as  soon  as  they  are  cold  shell 
them,  take  die  heads  and  bruise  them  in  a  mortar,  put  them  into 
barely  a  quart  of  water  and  let  them  boil  an  hour,  strain  them 
very  clear  and  add  three  ports  to  half  the  quantity  of  good  veal 
stock.  Put  into  a  stewpan  a  lump  of  butter  thej  size  of  an  egg, 
and  when  it  has  commenced  to  bubble,  stir  in  one  tea-spoonful 
of  flour,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  a  sprinkhng  of  cayenne,  and  a  small 
quantity  of  mace,  the  fourth  of  a  tea-spoonful ;  when  this  browns, 
poor  in  the  stock  gradually,  adding  a  glass  of  vin  de  Bordeaux,  and 
let  it  boil,  then  add  the  shrimps,  cut  off  the  bottom  crust  of  a  French 
loaC  hollow  out  the  crumb,  and  fry  the  crust  in  fresh  butter  until  a 

Elden  brown ;  as  soon  as  the  shrimps  are  thoroughly  heated  which  will 
I  in  about  three  or  four  minutes,  pour  them  into  the  hollowed  toast. 


6^6. CROUTE   AUX   CREVELLES    A   lA   REINE   AMELIE 

Is  made  in  the  same  manner,  save  that  about  four  tabie-spoonfuls 
of  cream  are  added  to  the  ingredients  before  the  shrimps  are  put  in. , 


626. SMELTS. 

This  is  a  very  delicate  fish,  requires  delicate  handling,  and  is 
quickly  cooked ;  draw  through  the  gills  and  \npe  with  a  soft  cloth, 
but  do  not  wash  them,  dip  tliem  into  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  very 
smooth,  and  sprinkle  them  with  bread  crumbs  as  finely  as  they  can  be 
powdered,  a  little  flour  may  be  mixed  with  the  bread  crumbs,  firy 
Aem  a  clear  light  brown,  four  minutes  will  suffice  to  cook  them. 

The  French  method  of  serving  is  to  skewer  six  through  the  gills 
with  a  silver  skewer,  and  serve  them  in  sixes.  If  dished,  lay  them 
head  and  tail  alternately,  serve  with  melted  butter  and  garnish  with 
ptnley. 

627. — TO   BAKE   SMELTS. 

Prepare  as  above,  dress  according  to  die  receipt  for  soles  k  la 
IWtuguese  ;  instead  however,  of  strewing  forcemeat  over  them 
employ  only  bread  crumbs,  and  moisten  with  clarified  butter  ;  mix  in 
sdmtion  to  the  gravy  a  glass  of  Madeira,  with  a  dash  of  anchovies, 
this  must  be  added  before  the  smelts  are  laid  in.  They  will  be  done 
in  ten  minutes. 

628. ^TROUT. 

Scale,  gut,  dean,  dry,  and  flour,  fry  them  in  butter  until  they  are 
a  rich  dear  brown,  fry  some  green  parsley  crisp  and  make  some  plain 
melted  butter,  put  in  one  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy,  and  one 


186  SALT  AND  FBESH  WATBB  FI8K* 

glass  of  white  wine,  garnish  when  the  trout  are  dished  with  the 
crisped  parsley  and  lemon  cut  in  slices ;  the  hutter  may  be  poured 
over  the  fish,  but  it  is  most  advisable  to  send  it  in  a  butter  tureen. 


629. ^TRUITB   A  LA  GENEV0I8E. 

Clean  the  fish  as  above,  lay  them  in  a  stewpan  with  two  glasses  of 
duunpagne,  two  glasses  of  sherry,  a  faggot  of  parsley,  an  onion 
stnck  with  cloves,  thyme,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  piece  of  the  well 
baked  crust  of  French  bread,  stew  on  a  quick  fire,  take  out  the  bread 
when  the  fish  is  done,  brown  it,  mix  in  butter  rolled  in  fiour,  and  boil 
up  to  thicken  the  sauce ;  the  fish  having  been  taken  out  when  done, 
pour  over  them  the  thickened  sauce,  serve  with  lemon  sliced  and  firied 
bread. 


630. — TBirtTE   A  LA  PBINCESSE  BOYJLLE. 

Take  equal  parts  of  Madeira  and  water,  and  let  them  come  to  ft 
boil,  having  emptied,  cleansed,  washed  and  wiped  perfectly  dry  the 
trout,  lay  them  in,  they  should  only  be  just  covered  with  the  liquor, 
they  will  be  done  in  twenty  minutes  if  not  boiled  too  fast ;  take  out 
the  fish  and  thicken  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  add  two 
well  beaten  eggs  with  one  tea-spoonful  of  cream  to  the  sauce, 
pouring  them  from  one  vessel  to  another  until  they  are  of  a  crean^ 
consistency,  season  with  salt,  pour  the  sauce  upon  the  fish  and  serve. 


631. — TROUT  STEWED. 

^  This  is  a  pleasing  and  delicate  dish  when  nicely  stewed.  It  is 
dressed  very  much  in  the  fashion  of  other  small  fish  stewed,  only  that 
it  requires  perhaps  more  care  in  the  difierent  processes. 

First  wash  and  clean  the  fish,  wipe  it  perfectly  dry,  put  into  ft 
stewpan  two  ounces  of  butter,  dredge  in  as  it  melts  flour,  and  add 
grated  nutmeg,  a  little  mace,  and  a  little  cayenne.  Stew  well,  and 
when  fluid  and  thoroughly  mixed,  lay  in  the  fish  which,  having 
suflered  to  slightly  brown,  cover  with  a  pint  of  veal  gravy;  throw  in  a 
little  salt,  a  small  faggot  of  parsley,  a  few  rings  of  lemon  peel ;  stew 
slowly  forty  minutes,  take  out  the  fish,  strain  the  gravy  clear  and  pour 
it  over  tlie  fish ;  it  may  be  strained  over  it,  before  however  it  is  poured 
over,  a  glass  of  bucellas  may  be  added  to  the  gravy. 


632. — ^TURBOT. 

Place  the  turbot,  previously  to  cooking,  to  soak  in  salt  and  water 
in  which  a  little  vinegar  has  been  poured ;  lay  it  upon  its  back  in 
the  fish  kettle,  fill  the  latter  three  parts  full  with  cold  water,  throw 
in  a  handful  of  salt,  a  gill  of  vinegar,  let  it  boil  very  gradually,  and 
when  it  boils,  add  cold  water  to  check  ;  thirty  minutes  is  sufficient  to 
cook  it ;  serve  it  upon  a  cloth  as  boiled  with  its  back  to  the  dish ; 
garnish  tastefully  with  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  horse-radish  scraped 
into  curls,  or  with  fried  smelts,  or  barberrieSt  and  parsley.  Lobster 
sauce. 


SALT  AKJ>  VEESH  WATER  FISH.  187 

633. — niiLETS  OF  TUBBOT. 

This  disli  is  made  from  the  fish  left  from  the  former  dinner ;  as  it 
is  cold  you  can  cut  it  in  very  nice  shaped  pieces,  then  place  them  on 
a  dish  or  saut^-pan  with  a  little  good  stock  white,  the  sauce  as  for 
former  dishes.  If  maitre  dTi6tel,  or  with  oysters,  leave  out  the 
puskj,  and  blanch  and  beard  three  dozen  large  oysters,  and  pot  in  your 
prepared  sauce,  giving  it  a  few  minutes'  boil ;  pour  it  over  your  fish* 


634. — TURBOT   A   LA   ROI. 

Put  into  a  fish  kettle  two  thirds  water  and  one  of  wine,  a  cheap 
light  French  wine  will  sufl&ce  and  will  be  less  expensive  ;  in  France 
the  vin  ordinaire  is  always,  unless  on  extraordinary  occasions,  em- 
ployed. In  this  mixture  throw  in  first  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  one 
urge  onion  stuck  with  cloves  and  a  few  small  ones,  the  half  of  a  clove 
of  garlic,  a  table-spoonful  of  pepper  corns,  two  carrots  sliced,  two 
turnips  the  same,  a  lump  of  butter,  salt,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of 
cayenne  tied  in  muslin,  stew  for  half  an  hour,  strain  quite  clear  and 
let  it  get  cold  for  using ;  boil  the  turbot  twenty  minutes,  and  garnish 
irith  fohater  sauce ;  a  dish  of  cucumber  sliced  and  dressed  should 
be  sent  to  table  with  it. 


635. WATER   SOUCHY. 

This  is  a  dish  more  frequently  seen  upon  the  tables  of  the  Black- 
wall  and  Greenwich  hotels  than  anywhere  else ;  it  is  introduced  into 
private  families,  and  when  well  cooked  makes  a  verj'  excellent  as  well 
«8  economic  dish. 

It  is  composed  of  many  kinds  of  small  fish,  and  it  is  essential  that 
thej  should  be  as  fresh  as  possible.  The  quantity  of  fish  must  be 
legolated  by  the  quantity  to  be  sent  to  table  ;  take  flounders,  perch, 
tmch,  carp,  very  small  soles,  or  any  small  fish,  and  clean  them  very 
nrefully,  removing  the  skin,  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces  of  equal 
saes ;  make  of  fine  heads  of  parsley  a  fiaggot,  and  slice  half  a  dozen 
pered  parsley  roots  into  slips  or  cut  them  into  rounds,  put  them  with 
a  handful  of  salt,  some  whole  white  peppers,  into  sufficient  water  to 
about  cover  the  fish,  simmer  until  the  herbs  are  tender,  put  in  the 
fiah,  remove  the  scum  as  fast  as  it  appears ;  stew  gently  ten  minutes. 

The  fish  must  be  done  but  not  broken,  this  may  be  prevented 
by  watching  carefully,  it  will  be  the  consequence  of  boiling  too  fast 
or  being  over  done  if  it  occurs,  and  it  spoils  the  appearance  when  sent 
to  table  ;  you  will  remove  the  fish  with  a  slice,  keep  it  hot,  strain  the 
liquor,  remove  the  pepper  corns,  but  return  the  parsley  and  roots, 
have  some  finely  chopped  parsley  ready,  put  it  into  the  liquor,  give  it 
a  boil  and  pour  it  gently  over  the  fish,  serve  like  white  bait  with 
bread  and  butter  cut  nicely  and  laid  in  plates,  brown  and  white 
bread  should  be  sent  to  table  to  suit  the  taste  of  the  partakers; 
epicures  prefer  the  former. 

There  is  another  way  of  cooking  the  water  souchy  by  pulping  a 
portion  of  the  fish  and  adding  it  to  the  liquor  to  strengthen  it,  or  by 


188  SALT  AND  FBESH  WATER  FISH. 


boning  many  of  the  fish  and  stewing  the  bones  down,  using  the  liquor 
instead  of  water,  but  the  aboye  receipt  will  be  found  easy  to  make 
and  exceedingly  palatable. 

"      636. — WHITINGS 

May  be  cooked  as  soles ;  they  should  be  sent  to  table  with  tail  to 
mouth,  or  passed  through  the  eyes. 

637.— CURRY  OF  SOLES  AND  WHITINGS,  ETC. 

Cut  in  smaller  pieces  than  for  cutlets,  and  proceed  to  make  your 
cuny  as  before  for  salmon. 


638. — CURRY   OF  WHITINGS. 

This  fish  must  be  sauteed  after  you  have  cut  it  in  the  sized  pieces 
for  your  cuny,  then  proceed  exactly  as  before. 

639. — FILLETS  OF  WHITINGS,  ICaItRE  D*HdTKL. 

This  fish  is  much  tenderer  than  soles,  therefore  you  must  not  beat 
them  60  hard  in  forming  them,  and  be  careful  in  turning  them, 
proceed  exactly  as  for  the  fillets  of  soles,  and  likewise  the  sauce. 

640. QUENELLES  OR  PUDDINGS  OF  WHITINGS. 

This  fish  makes  the  best  quenelles.  Proceed  exactly  as  for  the  other 
queneUes  of  wliite  fish. 


641. WHITE    BAIT. 

It  requires  considerable  skill  and  practice  to  cook  white  bait. 
Respecting  the  necessity  of  its  freshness  there  cannot  be  two  opinions. 
It  must  not  he  handled;  if  fingers  are  employed  the  fish  will  be 
bruised,  their  appearance  and  Savour  destroyed.  They  should  be 
turned  on  to  a  cloth  and  well  dredged  with  flour,  shifting  the  cloth  so 
that  they  may  be  completely  covered  with  flour;  turn  them  into  a 
muslin  cloth,  shake  them  sufficiently  to  get  rid  of  the  superfluous 
flour,  and  then  having  yom*  pan  ready  nearly  filled  with  boiling  lard, 
turn  them  into  it  and  take  them  out  again  instantly,  it  is  simply  a 
process  of  scalding  them,  they  must  not  be  suflered  to  brown,  put 
them  upon  a  drainer  and  serve  with  sliced  lemon,  and  brown  bread 
and  butter  in  shoes. 


642. — FISH   SALADS. 

All  kinds  of  fish  left  from  the  former  days,  make  good  salads ; 
introduce  all  the  articles  as  for  fish  salads,  (tutting  the  fii^  when  cold 
into  thin  slices,  and  using  fillets  of  anchovies. 

643. CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Use  a  former  dressed  chicken,  sweetbread,  quenelle,  and  truffles ; 
dish  upon  salad  as  the  former,  with  aspic  jelly. 


SALT  JJfD  FEE8H  WATEB  FIBH.  189 

644. ITALIAN    BAI.AI>. 

Oflt  aUj  the  folloiriog  things  ready : — filleted  Boles,  quenelles, 
duckeii,  lobeter,  filiated  anchovies,  olives  pared,  hard-botled  e^a, 
'l>eet-root,  cucumbere,  lettuce,  and  small  sauid,  celerv,  creases.  Cut 
up  the  lettuce  and  celeiy,  theu  mix  the  cresses,  salad,  and  all  well 
together;  place  it  in  the  middle  of  jour  dish,  bringing  it  to  a  point 
at  the  top,  then  place  round  alternately  as  your  fancy  directs,  the 
above  edibles.  Cut  them  into  thin  slices,  then  make  the  salad  or 
Dutch  sauce,  pour  it  over  the  salad,  introduce  aspic  jelly  in  different 
ipartsof  it. 

646. LOBSTER  SALAD. 

Extract  the  fish  from  the  shell,  place  it  in  the  centre  of  the  dish 
in  which  it  is  to  be  served,  in  the  form  of  a  pyramid  ;  arrange  tho 
fliJad  roond  taslfully,  and  add  salad  mixture.  This  dish  is  not 
infrequeutly  garnished  with  the  smallest  claws  of  the  fish.  This  is  a 
nulter  of  &ncy — or  thus : — 


—LOBSTER  B 

Stlad,  &c.,  formed  into  a  heap,  ornamented  with  the  claws  of 
•ncnl  lobsters.  The  first  row  is  formed  of  cut  cucumbers,  the 
■Kond  <^  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  each  egg  split  iuto  four  pieces,  and 
At  pants  laid  round  the  salad ;  thu  third  and  bottom  row  is  com- 
pned  of  slices  of  beetroot,  lobster,  and  hake. 

647.— LOBSTERS,   IN   AN    ITAIIAN  SALAD. 

Take  two  lobsters,  cut  them  into  pieces  by  taking  off  the  claws  and 
ttil,  each  of  which  split  in  two ;  the  spawn  rub  through  a  dry  sieve 
tl  gvnisb  the  salad ,  made  in  the  following  manner ;  wash  two  or  three 
ciUisge  lettuces,  cut  them  in  lai^e  shreds,  sUce  a  beet-root  and  cu- 
nmber,  wash,  pick,  and  cut  into  long  shreds  four  anchovies,  chop  some 
tungon  and  chervil,  two  boiled  eggs,  the  jolks  and  whites  chopped 
•^■ntely ;  if  you  have  any  cauhflowers  or  French  beans,  boil  and 
pot  them  with  the  other  things  to  garnish,  having  everything  prepared, 
place  the  lettuce  ia  the  centre  of  the  dish  in  a  heap,  and  place  the 
fabstera  and  other  things  according  to  your  taste,  and  just  before 
yon  serve  garnish  with  Italian  salad  sauce. 

616. — LOBSTEIt   SAUD. 

Uw  only  a  lobster,  cut  into  some  nice  lai^e  pieces,  rather  thin : 


190  SALT  AKD  FBE8H  WATER  FlffiS. 

use  fillets  of  anchovies,  cucumber,  and  bard-boiled  eggs,  dish  upon 
sakd,  as  for  the  former  salad. 


649. — ^AKOHOYIBB. 

Wash  half  a  dozen  anchovies,  and  take  the  meat  from  the  honef ; 
cut  them  into  four  fillets,  place  them  on  a  dish  with  some  sweet  faedbs 
cut'small,  and  the  yolks  and  whites  of  hard  eggs  cut  small. 


650.— AWCHOTY  BUTTER. 

Wash  your  anchovies  carefully,  take  out  the  bones  and  dry  them, 
then  pound  them  in  a  mortar  until  they  are  reduced  to  a  paste,  and 
mix  this  paste  with  double  the  quantity  of  firesh  butter. 


651. — ^AKCHOTIES,   ESSENCE  OP. 

A  pound  of  the  best  anchovies,  two  quarts  of  water,  two  bay  leavei, 
some  whole  pepper,  a  little  scraped  horse-radish,  a  little  thyme,  twe 
blades  of  mace,  six  shalots  chopped  small,  a  gill  of  port  wine,  half 
the  rind  of  a  lemon,  a  gill  of  ketchup,  boil  them  together  for  twenty 
minutes,  then  rub  them  throogli  a  tammy  with  a  wooden  spoon ; 
when  cold  put  it  into  pint  bottlei,  cock  them  close,  and  keep  them  in 
a  dry  place. 

652. — ^BSSENGB  OP   AUCHOTIES. 

Fillet  several  dozen  of  anchovies,  then  chop  them  up  fine  with 
some  of  their  own  liquor  strained,  add  to  it  a  cupful  of  water,  boil 
them  gently  until  the  fish  is  dissolved,  then  strain  it  and  when  cold 
bottle  it. 

653.— TOAST   OF   ANCHOVIBB. 

Prepare  toast ;  fillet  some  anchovies,  pound  them  in  a  mortar, 
add  a  little  butter  well  pounded  into  it,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  a 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice;  take  it  out  and  spread  it  on  the  toast. 


654. — ANCHOVIES  WITH   FRIED   BBEAD. 

Cut  some  bread  thin,  then  cut  out  with  a  plain  patty  cutter  the 
quantity  you  require,  as  you  will  put  one  on  the  other;  fry  them  in 
lard  a  very  nice  brown,  then  fillet  and  pound  anchovies  as  before  ; 
add  a  little  parsley,  and  a  grain  of  shalot,  rub  all  through  a  fine 
wire  or  hair  sieve,  spread  one  of  your  toasts  rather  thick,  place 
another  piece  of  bread  on  the  top ;  have  ready  some  more  fiUetted 
anchovies,  and  garnish  each  toast,  using  pickles  likewise,  or  parsley. 


655. — TO   KNOW  GOOD   ANCHOVIES. 

The  best  look  red  and  mellow,  and  the  bones  moist  and  oily,  the 
flesh  high  flavoured,  and  a  fine  smell,  if  the  liquor  and  fish  become 
dxy,  add  into  it  a  little  beef  brine. 


SALT  AND  FRESH  WATEB  FISH.  191 

656. — LOBSTER  OF  PRAWKS,  OB  CRAYFISH 

The  same.  Aflter  taking  the  meat  firom  the  shells  quite  ivhole  and 
dean,  set  a  little  jelly  in  your  plain  mould  to  get  cold,  to  ornament 
upon ;  filling  up  the  mould  hy  degrees. 


657. — CULLIS   OF  FISH. 

Broil  a  jack  or  pike  till  it  is  properly  done,  then  take  off  the 

tldn  and  separate  the  flesh  from  the  hones,  hoil  six  eggs  hard,  and 

take  out  the  yolks,  blanch  a  few  almonds,  heat  them  to  a  paste  in  a 

mortar,  and  then  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  mix  this  well  with  the  butter, 

then  put  in  the  fish,  and  pound  all  together ;  take  half  a  dozen  onions, 

and  cut  them  in  slices,  two  parsnips,  and  three  carrots,  set  on  a 

stewpan,  and  put  into  it  a  piece  of  butter  to  brown,  and  put  in  the 

roots  to  boil,  turn  them  till  they  are  brown,  and  then  pour  in  a  little 

faiDth  to  moisten  them ;  when  it  has  boiled  a  few  minutes  strain  it 

into  another  saucepan,  and  then  put  in  a  leek,  some  parsley,  sweet 

banl,  half  a  dozen  cloves,  some  mushrooms,  and  truffles,  and  a  few 

Iread  crumbs,  when  it  has  stewed  gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour  put  in 

^  the  fish  from  the  mortar,  let  the  whole  stew  some  time  longer,  but  be 

cazeful  that  it  does  not  boil ;  when  it  is  sufflciently  done  stnuB  it 

ihiDngh  a  coarse  sieye. 


192  8AUCE8. 


CHAPTER  XL 


SAXrCES. 


658. — 8A.UCE. 


Few  things  require  more  care  than  making  sauces.  As  most  of 
them  should  he  stirred  constantly  the  whole  attention  should  be 
directed  to  them,  the  better  way  is  to  prepare  the  sauces  before 
cooking  those  articles  which  demand  equal  care ;  they  may  be  kept 
hot  in  the  bain-marie;  butter,  and  those  sauces  containing  em 
ought  ncYer  to  boil.  The  thickest  stewpans  should  be  uwd  for 
miudng  sauces,  and  wooden  spoons  used  for  stirring  them. 


659. — ANCHOVY   SAUCE  AU  BEURSE.   * 

Wash  some  anchovies,  take  out  the  bones  and  scale  them,  when 
they  are  quite  dry,  cut  them  into  small  nieces  and  pound  them  into 
a  paste,  and  mix  them  up  with  double  their  weight  of  firesh  butter. 
To  make  a  sauce  of  this,  put  in  some  Spanish  sauce  when  lukewarm, 
or  some  white  wine ;  stew  them  together,  stirring  them  continually. 
Lemon  juice  may  be  added ;  strain  it ;  if  too  thick  add  a  little  con- 
somme. 


660. ^ANCHOVY  SAUCE. 

To  ahout  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter  put  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
good  essence  of  anchovies,  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Serre  very 
hot. 


661. — ^APPLE   SAUCE. 

Pare,  core,  and  slice  some  apples,  put  them  with*a  little  water  into 
the  saucepan  Jto  prevent  them  nrom  burning,  add  a'little  lemon  peel ; 
when  sufficiently  done  take  out  the  latter,  bruise  the  apples,  put  in  a 
hit  of  butter,  and  sweeten  it. 


662. — BECHAMEL. 

Reduce  some  sauce  toumee  over  a  good  fire,  moisten  with  chicken 
broth  or  consomm6,  constantly  stirring  to  prevent  its  catching,  when 
of  the  proper  consiBtence  add  two  glasses  of  boiling  cream,  continae 
stirring,  pass  it  through  a  hair  sieve  and  serve. 


SAUCES.  193 


663. — ^BJ^CHAMEL  SAUCE. 

Take  some  yeal  and  ham,  cut  them  into  dices,  some  carrots,  cloreSi 
^miona,  laurel  leares,  shalots,  parsley,  and  scallions,  all  chopped  fine^ 
jwpper,  grated  nutmeg,  a  little  salt  and  butter,  a  little  veloute  and 
^oonsomme,  reduce  it  to  half,  and  then  put  in  some  cream,  mix  it 
"well  with  your  sauce,  boil  it  all  together  oyer  a  quick  fire,  shaking  it 
^DonitanUj  for  an  hour,  if  thick  enough  strain  it  tnrough  a  sieve. 


664. — ^BREAD  SAUCE. 

Cut  in  slices  the  crumb  of  a  French  roll,  to  which  add  a  few 
]>epperoom8,  one  whole  onion,  a  little  salt,  and  boiling  milk  enough 
to  coyer  it,  let  it  simmer  gently  by  the  side  of  the  fire  till  the  bread 
aoaks  up  the  milk,  add  a  little  thick  cream,  take  out  the  onion,  and 
Tab  the  whole  through  a  sieye,  make  it  yery  hot,  and  serye  with 
gjuae  or  fowls. 

665. — BUTTEB  BUBKT  SAUCE. 

Fry  some  butter,  when  it  begins  to  smoke,  throw  into  it  soma 
dopped  parsley;  when  sufficienUy  done,  add  pepper,  salt,  and  rine 

666. — BUTTER  BURNT  FOR  SAUCE.  ' 

fry  some  butter  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  and  let  it  boil  till  it  is 
ai  brown  as  you  wish,  then  shake  in  flour  stirring  it  all  the  while, 
then  use  it  for  any  sauce  that  is  too  thin. 

667- — SAUCE  AU  BAIN  MARIE. 

Take  thin  slices  of  fillet  of  veal,  ham,  and  beef,  according  to  the 
quantity  of  sauce  you  may  require,  take  some  carrots,  parsnips, 
fmley  roots,  turnips,  onions,  leeks,  and  celery  also  sliced,  put  all  these 
into  a  stewpan  with  a  few  slices  of  bacon,  coyer  it  close  and  let  it 
itew  on  hot  ashes  for  some  time,  then  add  equal  quantities  of  white 
Grille  and  good  broth,  place  the  stewpan  in  the  bain  marie,  and  let  the 
Mnce  simmer  for  four  hours  when  it  may  be  strained  for  use ;  be 
ciieful  not  to  put  so  much  of  any  single  ingredient  that  its  flayour 
iBsy  predominate  oyer  the  others. 


668. — SAUCE,  BROWN. 

Take  a  pound  or  two  of  steaks,  two  or  three  pound  of  yeal,  some 

pekings  of  fowls,  carrots,  and  onions,  put  all  these  into  a  saucepan 

wiA  a  glass  of  water,  and  set  it  on  a  brisk  fire ;  ^hen  scarcely  any 

iBobture  remains  put  it  on  a  slow  fire  that  the  jelly  may  take  colour 

Without  burning,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  brown  moisten  it  with  stock  or 

water,  add  a  bunch  of  green  onions  or  parsley,  two  bay  leayes,  two 

dorea,  and  some  champignons,  S(ilt  it  well,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  for 

three  hoars,  then  strain  in ;  dilute  a  little  roux  with  your  liquor,  and 

boil  it  an  hour  oyer  a  gentle  fire,  take  o£f  all  the  fat  and  run  it 

dinmgh  a  bolting-cloth. 

O 


)94  SAUCES. 


609. — BAXJCE   AU  DIABLE. 

■  H^nce  half  a  dozen  sbalots  very  fine,  wash,  and  press  out  all  the 
tnoistur^,  then  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  glass  of  Tinegar,  A 
clove  of  garlic,  a  bay  leaf,  and  some  real  glaxe,  reduce  it  to  nearijr 
a  jelly,  moisten  it  with  a  little  good  grayy,  add  pimento,  butter,  and 
8  spoonful  of  olive  oil. 

670.— ftAUCE  ORANDE. 

Take  three  or  four  slices  of  the  under  part  of  a  knuckle  of  yeal, 
and  put  them  into  a  laige  stewpan  with  two  ladlefals  of  consonkme, 
set  it  on  a  fierce  fire,  taking  care  to  skim  it  as  much  as  possible,  and 
with  a  cloth  wipe  away  all  that  adheres  to  the  inside  of  the  stewpan, 
when  the  consomme  is  reduced,  prick  the  slices  with  a  knife  to  let 
dbe  gravy  out;  then  set  the  stewpan  on  a  slow  fire,  that  the  meat 
and  glaze  may  adhere  together,  and  as  soon  as  the  latter  is  of  n 
clear  light  colour,  take  it  off  ;> leave  it  covered  for  ten  minutes,  then 
fill  it  up  with  rich  stocky  in  which  are  four  or  five  laige  carrots  and 
three  onions,  let  it  boil  slowly  for  three  hours.  In  the  meantime  put 
tiie  knuckle  into  a  saucepan  with  four  carrots,  lour  onions,  one  stucjc 
with  doves,  and  two  ladlefuls  of  consomme,  set  it  on  a  brisk  fire  that 
the  liquor  may  reduce  to  a  jelly,  as  soon  as  this  jelly  begins  to  take 
colour  pour  on  it  the  liquor  from  the  other  saucepan,  to  dissolve  the  jelly 
gradually,  then  make  it  boil.  Dilute  some  roox  with  the  above  liquor, 
and  add  to  it  the  meat  with  some  champignons,  a  bunch  of  panley, 
scallions,  and  two  bay-leaves,  skim  when  it  begins  to  boil,  ana  again 
when  the  roux  is  added,  put  in  more  consomme  or  roux  aocording  an 
it  is  too  thick,  or  too  thin.  When  it  has  boiled  an  hour  and  a  half, 
take  off  all  the  fat ;  and  when  the  meat  is  quite  done  strain  the  same 
through  a  bolting-cloth. 


671.-— CAPER  RAUCS  FOR  FISH. 

Take  some  melted  butter,  into  which  throw  a  small  bit  of  giane^ 
and  when  the  sauce  is  in  a  state  of  readiness  throw  into  it  some 
choice  capers,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  a  spoonful  of  essence  of  anelie- 
ries. 


672. — CAPER   SAUCE  A  LA  FRAK9AI8B. 

Take  some  capers,  cut  them  small,  put  some  essence  of  ham  into  a 
small  saucepan  with  some  pepper,  let  it  boil,  then  put  in  the  capers ; 
let  them  boil  two  or  three  times,  and  they  are  ready  to  serve. 

673, — CAPER  SAUCE,   TO   IMrTATE, 

Boil  some  parsley  very  slowly  to  let  it  become  of  a  bad  colour,  then 
cut  it  up,  but  do  not  chop  it  fine,  put  it  into  melted  butter,  with  a 
tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  vinegar ;  boil  up,  and 
then  serve. 


674, CAPER   SAUCE   FOR   MEAT. 

Take  some  capers,  chop  half  of  them  very  fine,  and  put  ihe'rest  in 


8AUCE&  ]  95 

whole;  then  diop  some  pu-riej  with  a  little  gnted  bread,  and  put  to 
it  WBe  lalt ;  put  them  into  butter  melted  Tery  smooth,  let  them  boil 
if^  and  then  poor  them  mto  a  sauce-boat. 


f575.— CARP  SAUCE. 

Out  no  a  carp  in  large  bits  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  few 
£ees  of  oacon,  real,  ham,  two  onions,  one  carrot,  and  half  a  parsnip; 
nak  it  till  it  catches  a  little,  then  add  a  glass  of  white  wine  and  good 
koth,  a  little  cullis,  a  faggot  of  parsley,  cherril,  a  clove  of  garlic,  two 
of  spices,  and  a  laurel  1^;  nmmer  for  an  hour,  skim  it  well,  and 
it  in  a  siere. 


678* — CALTES'  BRAIK8,  WITH  BIFFEXEKT  SAUCES. 

Brains  bniaed  in  wine  or  broth  may  be  used  with  what  sauces  or 
]||po6t  jon  please :  such  as  fieit  liYera,  paeons,  sausages,  onions,  ca- 
fm^  fiied  bnead.  They  take  their  name  from  the  mat^ial  with  which 
tiiey  are  mixed. 

677-— CELERY  SAUCE. 

Three  heads  of  fine  white  celery  cut  into  two-inch  lengths,  keep 
Aen  so,  or  shred  them  down  as  straws,  boil  them  a  few  minutes, 
itain  them  oSy  return  the  celery  into  the  stewpan,  put  either  some 
hmm  or  white  stock  and  boil  it  until  tender,  if  too  much  liquor 
niaee  it  by  boiling,  then  add  either  white  or  brown  sauce  to  it, 
it  with  sugar,  cayenne,  pepper,  and  salt. 


678.— CELERY  SAUCE. 

Cut  a  dozen  heads  of  fine  celery  into  pieces  about  the  size  of  a 
ihilling,  blanch,  and  put  them  into  a  small  stewpan  with  consomm^ 
caoagh  to  corer  them,  a  small  bit  of  butter,  a  little  sugar  and  salt, 
uilKf  a  roond  paper  over  the  whole ;  let  them  stew  gently  till 
mrily  done,  then  shake  them  np  in  bechamel  sauce. 


679.— CHERTIL  8AUC& 

Pat  a  few  mushrooms,  parsley,  cherrils,  shalots,  two  clores,  a  bay 
«if,  and  a  few  tarragon  leares,  into  some  melted  butter;  let  them 
loak  for  some  time,  then  add  a  little  broth,  white  wine,  pepper,  salt, 
then  reduce  it  to  a  proper  thickness,  and  do  not  skim  it ;  when  done 
ptit  in  some  chervil  scalded  and  chopped ;  warm  it  all  up  together. 


680.— COD  SAUCE. 

Take  a  bunch  of  parsley,  cherril,  two  shalots,  two  clores,  a  bay 
iei^  some  mushrooms,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  soak  all  together  on  the 
ire,  adding  a  small  spoonful  of  flour,  and  milk  or  cream  sufficient  to 
boil  to  the  consistence  of  a  sauce,  and  add  to  it  some  chopped  parsley 
first  scalded. 

O  2 


1 96  SAUCES. 

681.^-COURT  BOUILLON^  FOR  ALL  SORTS  OF  FRB8H  WATB&  FISH. 

Put  some  water  into  a  fish-kettle,  with  a  quart  of  white  wine, 
a  slice  of  butter,  salt,  pepper,  a  large  bunch  of  parsley,  and  young 
onions,  a  cIoto  of  garlic,  thyme,  bay  leases,  and  basil,  all  tied  together, 
some  sliced  onions  and  some  carrots;  boil  the  fish  in  this  court  bou- 
illon (which  will  serve  for  several  times)  and  do  not  scale  it;  whea 
the  fish  will  admit  of  it,  take  care  to  boil  it  wrapped  in  a  napkin, 
which  makes  it  more  easy  to  take  out  without  danger  of  breaking. 


682.— CREJLM  SAUCB. 

Put  into  a  steif^-pan  a  little  butter,  a  little  parsley,  a  few  green 
onions  and  shalots,  all  cut  small,  one  dove  of  garlic  whole;  turn 
them  a  few  times  over  the  fire,  then  add  some  flour,  and  moisten 
with  cream  or  milk ;  let  the  whole  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ; 
strain  off  the  sauce,  and  when  you  want  it  for  use,  put  in  a  little 
butter,  some  parsley  just  scalded  and  chopped  fine,  salt,  whole  pepper, 
then  thicken  the  same  over  the  fire ;  this  may  be  used  with  all  kinds 
of  dishes  that  are  done  white. 


683.— CUCUMBER  SAUCE. 

Pare  two  large  cucumbers  cut  in  lengths  of  three  inches  round  the 
ends;  after  cutting  each  length  into  four  pieces  take  out  all  the  seeds, 
have  ready  a  bason  with  vinegar  and  water,  a  little  pepper  and  salt ; 
as  you  cut  them  put  them  into  the  bason,  let  them  lie  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  take  them  out,  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  one  onion,  and  a 
little  good  brown  stock,  boil  it  all  until  nearly  dry,  put  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  brown  sauce  to  it,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
vinegar,  a  little  sugar,  pepper,  and  salt ;  if  for  fine  white  sauce  add  a 
gill  of  cream. 

684.— CUCUMBER  SAUCE,   FOR  CUTLETS  OR  BEEF. 

Two  large  cucumbers  to  be  pared  thin ;  cut  them  in  pieces  three 
inches  long,  if  any  seeds  take  them  out  round  the  ends  of  them,  have 
ready  in  a  basin  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  a  little  pepper  and  salt, 
and  a  cup  of  vinegar,  and  as  you  prepare  them  put  them  in  the 
basin ;  after  remaining  a  little  time  take  them  out,  and  put  them  into 
another  stewpan  with  a  little  of  your  best  stock,  boil  them  down 
to  a  glaze,  then  put  some  brown  sauce  to  them^  add  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  black  pepper,  sugar,  and  salt. 


685. — CUCUMBER   SAUCE. 

Cut  four  cucumbers  into  pieces  the  size  of  half  a  crown,  and  three 
quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  put  them  into  a  clean  cloth,  and  rub  them 
well  to  take  out  the  water,  put  a  bit  of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  to 
which  put  the  cucumber,  and  set  them  over  a  brisk  fire  taking  care 
to  shake  them  frequently ;  when  they  are  of  a  good  colour,  put  to 
them  three  large  spoonfuls  of  veloute  and  two  of  blond,  let  them 
remain  a  short  time  on  the  fire. 


SAUCES.  197 

— —     -  - 

686. — ^DUTCH  SAUCE,  OR  H0LLlin>AI8E  SAUCE. 

Pkce  m  a  stewpan  some  scraped  horse-radisb,  a  sprig  of  thyme, 
a  small  onion,  ana  two  sbalots,  with  sufficient  vinegar  to  extract 
the  essence  of  them ;  keep  the  lid  on  the  stewpan  while  steeping* 
Have  readj  in  another  stewpan  two  yolks  of  raw  eggs,  with  a  smw 
piece  of  butter  about  two  ounces,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  plain 
mdted  butter;  when  the  roots  are  well  run  down,  throw  them  into  the 
other  stewpan,  put  it  on  the  fire,  and  stir  till  hot,  do  not  let  it  boil, 
pass  it  through  a  tammy,  and  serve  up,  or  pour  over  your  fish  or 
whatever  it  may  be  reqmred  for. 


687* — ^BBL  SAUCE. 

Cat  the  eels  into  large  pieces  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
fiew  slices  of  bacon»  ham,  veal,  two  onions,  with  all  sorts  of  roots, 
soak  it  till  it  catches,  ^en  add  a  glass  of  white  wine  and  good 
broth,  a  little  cullis,  three  or  four  tarragon  leaves,  chervil,  a  dove  of 
garlic,  two  of  spices,  and  a  bay  leaf;  simmer  for  an  hour,  skim  it 
very  weD,  and  sift  it  in  a  sieve  for  use. 


688. — EGG  SAUCE. 

Boil  three  eggs  hard,  cut  them  in  small  squares,  and  mix  them  ixr 
Bood  batter  sauce,  make  it  very  hot,  and  squeeze  in  some  lemon 
jaiee  before  you  serve  it. 


689. — ENDIVE  FOR  SAUCE  OR   A  PUR^IE. 

Prepare  at  first  as  the  above ;  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  sweat 
them  with  butter,  then  add  some  good  stock  to  stew  them  in,  but  if 
far  a  puree  you  must  have  many  more,  and  \\hen  well  stewed  pass  it 
with  spoons  through  a  tammy ;  add  some  good  bechamel  or  brown 
nooe  to  it,  season  as  before. 


690. — ^FENNEL  SAUCE. 

Take  as  many  branches  of  green  fennel  as  yon  may  require ;  pick 
tad  wash  it  in  the  same  manner  as  parsley;  chop  it  very  small,  scald 
nd  then  lay  it  on  a  sieve  to  cool ;  put  two  spoonfuls  of  veloute,  and 
die  same  of  butter  sauce  into  a  saucepan^  make  them  quite  hot,  take 
cue  to  stir  it  well  that  they  may  be  properly  mixed,  rub  the  fennel 
in  a  little  butter,  and  then  throw  it  into  the  sauce;  mix  it  in 
tboroaghly,  and  season  it  with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg. 


'        691. — FRESH  PORK  SAUCE. 

Cat  two  or  three  good  sized  onions  into  slices,  and  fry  them  lightly, 
a  add  two  spoonfuls  of  cullis,  a  little  broth,  a  few  mushrooms 
dMipped,  a  clove  of  garlic,  vinegar,  and  spice ;  let  it  boil  half  an 
V  redace  to  a  proper  consistence,  skim  and  strain  it. 


198  aAUG£& 


692.<^-OABLIO  8ADCE. 

Thiee  or  four  garHct,  divided  and  boiled  in  a  little  white  yinegar  and 
wbite  stock,  with  a  small  piece  of  lean  bam ;  when  reduced,  strain  it 
oC  and  add  either  white  or  brown  sauce  to  the  liquor;  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  sugar ;  leave  out  the  vinegar. 


693. GARLIC  SAUCE. 

Take  two  cloves  of  garlic,  and  pound  them  with  a  piece  of  fredli 
butter  about  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  roll  it  through  a  double  hair 
sieve,  and  stir  it  into  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter  or  beef  gravy,  or 
make  it  with  garlic  vinegar. 


694.— ^GOOSEBERRY  SACCB. 

Take  two  handfuls  of  half  ripe  gooseberries,  open  them,  and  take 
out  the  seeds,  blanch  them  in  a  little  salt  and  water,  and  drain  them ; 
put  two  spoonfuls  of  veloute,  and  the  same  of  butter  sauce  into  a 
saucepan,  mix  them  together  well,  and  heat  them,  throw  in  the 
gooseberries,  stir  them  well,  season  the  sauce  according  to  taste,  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg;  this  sauce  is  eaten  with  boiled  mackerel; 
fennel  may  be  added  or  not  at  pleasure. 


695. — ^HAM  SAUCE. 

When  a  ham  is  almost  done  with,  pick  all  the  meat  that  remaina 
fix>m  the  bone,  leaving  oyt  any  rusty  part ;  beat  the  meat  and  bone  to 
a  mash  with  the  rolling-pin,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  three  spoon- 
fuls of  gravy,  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  and  keep  stirring  it  all  the  time 
to  prevent  its  sticking  to  the  bottom;  when  it  has  been  on  some 
time  put  to  it  a  small  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  some  pepper,  and  half  a 
pint  of  veal  grBTj^  cover  it  up,  and  let  it  stew  over  a  gentle  fire^ 
when  it  has  a  good  flavour  of  the  herbs,  strain  off  the  gravy.  A  little 
of  this  is  an  improvement  to  all  gravies. 


696. — HERBS,   PnCB  SAUCE   OF. 

Work  up  a  piece  of  butter  in  some  flour,  melt  it,  and  then  put  to 
it  the  following  herbs : — shred  parsley,  scallions,  tarragon,  honge^ 
garden  cress,  chervil ;  boil  them  all  together  for  about  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  add  a  glass  of  stock,  and  serve  it  very  hot. 


iW     ^ 


697.— HORSERADISH  SAUCE,  HOT. 

Slice  two  onions  and  fry  them  in  oil,  and  when  they  begin  to 
colour,  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  glass  of  white  wine,  the 
same  of  broth,  two  slices  of  lemon  peeled,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  a 
bay  leaf,  thyme,  basil,  and  two  cloves,  boil  these  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  and  then  strain  it;  add  capers  and  an  anchovy  chopped, 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  spoonfiil  of  horseradish  boiled  to  a  pulp,  warm 
the  whole  without  boilini;. 


a^ucssi  19t 


608L— rflOBSERADUU  8A.CCB,  COISK 

Chop  up  some  parsley,  chervil,  shalots,  a  doTe  of  garlic,  eapeia,- 
and  SDchovies ;  to  these  add  a  Spoonftd  of  horseradish  scraped  reij 
fine,  a  spoonful  of  oil,  Tinegar,  peppec,  aad  nlL 


Pat  some  good  hrown  sauce  in  a  stewpan,  add  to  it  some  chopped, 
mpared  mushroom,  some  chopped  parsley  and  shalot,  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  a  little  sugar,  pepper,  and  sut^  bool  it  for  a  few  minotw. 


700.— LAMB  SAUCB. 

Roll  a  piece  of  hutter  in  hre^d  cnuahs,  shred  parsley,  and  shalots, 
and  boil  it  in  a  little  stock  and  white  wine,  equal  quantities,  a  few 
minutes  are  sufficient,  squeeze  in  a  little  lemon  or  orange  juice. 


701. LBMON   SAUCE,   WHITE,   FOB  BOILED  FOWLS. 

Put  the  peel  of  a  small  lemon  cut  rerj  thin  into  a  pint  of  sweet 
Dch  cream,  with  a  sprig  of  lemon,  thyme,  and  ten  white  peppercoma. 
Sfanmer  it  gently  tilt  it  tastes  well  of  the  lemon,  then  stiam  it  and 
thicken  it  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rubbed  in  a  dessert- 
ipoonful  of  flour,  ooil  it  up ;  then  pour  the  juice  of  the  lemon 
strained  into  it,  stirring  well ;  dish  the  fowls,  and  then  mix  a  little 
white  gravy  quite  hot  with  the  cream,  but  do  not  boil  them  together; 
add  salt  accordiuir  to  taste. 


702. — LEMON  SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  FOWLS. 

Cat  small  slices  of  lemon  into  very  small  dice,  and  put  them  into 
mdted  butter,  give  it  one  boil,  and  pour  it  oyer  boiled  fowls. 


703. LEMON   8AUCR. 

Pare  a  lemon  and  cut  it  into  slices,  take  out  the  seeds,  and  chop, 
it  «wi>11,  boil  the  lirer  of  a  fowl,  and  bruise  it:  mix  these  in  a  little 
grsTy,  then  melt  some  butter,  put  in  the  liyer,  and  add  a  little  of  the 
|ed  diopped  fine. 

704.— LIVER  SAUCE. 

Take  the  livers  of  poultry  or  game,  chop  them  very  small  with 
ptisley,  scallions,  tarragon  leaves,  and  shalots ;  soak  them  in  a  little 
latter  over  the  fire,  and  then  pound  them,  add  cullls  stock,  pepper 
and  salt.  Give  the  whole  a  boil  with  two  glasses  of  red  wine, 
coriander,  cinnamon,  and  sugar,  reduce  and  strain  it,  thicken  with  a 
bit  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  serve  it  in  a  sauce  boat. 

705. LIVER  SAUCE  FOR   BOILED  CHICKENS. 

Boil  the  livers  till  you  can  Kruise  them  with  the  back  of  a  spoon ; 
■iz  them  in  a  little  of  the  liquor  tbej  were  boiled  in,  meli  loiDe 


200  SAUCBS. 

butter  yeiT  smooth  and  put  to  them,  add  a  little  grated  lemon  peel, 
and  boU  all  up  together, 

'  706. — OLIVER  AKD  PARSLEY  6AVCE. 

Wash  the  liyer,  which  should  be  quite  fresh,  of  a  fowl  or  rabbit* 
and  boil  it  for  ten  minutes  in  ^Te  tea-spoonfuls  of  water,  chop  it 
fine,  pound  it  or  bruise  it  in  a  small  quantity  of  the  liquor  it  was 
boiled  in,  and  rub  it  through  a  hair  sieye ;  wash  about  one  third  its 
bulk  of  parsley  leaves,  boil  them  in  a  little  boiling  water  with  a  little 
salt  in  it,  lay  it  on  a  siere  to  drain,  and  chop  it  yery  fine,  mix  it 
with  the  liver,  and  put  it  to  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  melted  butter, 
and  warm  it  up ;  do  not  let  it  boil. 


707*— OTSTEB  SAUOB  FOB  ENTB^IES. 

"  Blanch  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  then  make  a  white  roux, 
to  which  add  a  few  small  onions,  mushrooms,  parsley,  and  scallions; 
moisten  with  some  of  the  oyster  liquor,  and  a  laclleful  or  two  df 
consomm^ ,  set  it  on  a  brisk  fire,  and  when  reduced  add  a  'pint  of 
cream,  season  it,  let  the  sauce  be  tolerably  thick,  strain  it  through  a 
sieve,  put  in  the  oysters,  and  use  it  with  those  articles  where^  it  is 
required,  such  as  fowl,  turkey,  and  chicken ;  if  served  with  fish, 
essence  of  anchovies  must  be  added  to  the  above  ingredients. 

708. — ^LOBSTER  SAUCE. 

**  Found  the  coral,  pour  upon  it  two  spoonfuls  of  gravy,  strsdn  it 
into  some  melted  butter,  then  put  in  the  meat  of  the  lobster,  give  it 
all  one  boil,  and  add  the  squeeze  of  a  lemon  ;  you  mayjf  you  please 
add  two  anchovies  poimded. 


709. — LOBSTER  SAUCE — ^ANOTHER  RECEIPr. 

Put  the  spawn  of  a  lobster  into  a  mortar  with  a  bit  of  batter,  and 
well  pound  it,  then  rub  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  put  some  butter  sauce 
into  a  stewpan,  and  the  spawn  of  the  lobster ;  set  it  on  the  fire  till  it 
is  veiy  hot,  and  looks  quite  smooth  and  red,  if  not  smooth,  pass  it 
through  a  tammy ;  then  put  in  the  meat  of  the  lobster  cut  into  small 
dices,  make  it  very  hot,  squeeze  in  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  serve. 


710. — ^LINTEIiS. 

Proceed  as  for  the  former  sauce,  be  careful  you  do  not  mash  them. 


711. — ^MINT  SAUCE. 

Take  some  nice  firesh  mint,  chop  it  very  small,  and  mix  it  widi 
vinegar  and  sugar.  

'.  71^' — ^maItrb  d*b6tel  sauce,  for  fish. 
Have  some  paisley  fimely  chopped,  and  a  small  shalot,  pot  them  in 


SAUOBB,  201 

m  stewpan  with  a  small  piece  of  batter,  sweat  them  orer  the  fire, 
dry  up  the  butter  with  flour,  then  add  some  of  your  best  stock, 
or  white  sauce,  with  a  little  ham ;  pass  it  through  the  tammj,  season 
the  last  thing  with  lemon,  a  dust  of  sugar,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt, 
and  if  you  haye  any  fish  stock  you  will  reduce  it  down  and  add  it  to 
it 


713. — ^MUSHBOOM  SAUCE. 

Cat  some  mushrooms  into  pieces,  press  them  in  a  cloth,  and  then 
mince  them ;  do  them  up  in  a  little  melted  butter,  then  add  some 
good  stock  parsley,  scallions,'  two  cIoycs  of  garlic ;  skim  and  cook 
them  orer  a  moderate  fire  for  half  an  hour,  strain,  take  off  the  fiit, 
lod  serre  it  very  hot 


714.^MT7SHBOOM  WHITE  8AX7CB. 

Haye  ready  some  cream  sauce  rather  thinner  than  usual,  to  this 
vot  a  few  small  white  mushrooms,  reduce  it  to  the  proper  consistence, 
It  is  then  ready. 


715. — ^MUSHROOM  SAUOE,  BROWN   AND   WHITE. 

Oet  a  pottle  of  fresh  mushrooms  not  opened,  or  coloured  in  the 
inside,  cut  off  all  the  dirty  ends,  have  two  basins  ready  with  a  little 
water,  salt,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons;  then  pare  or  trim  your 
prashrooms,  putting  the  mushrooms  in  one  water  and  the  parings 
in  the  other ;  when  all  done  put  about  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a 
stewpan,  take  your  mushrooms  out  of  the  water  and  put  them  into 
tlie  other  stewpan,  cover  them  over,  and  let  them  stew  for  sometime; 
then  pat  them  by  ready  for  use,  then  take  out  the  parings  after 
washing  them  well,  and  chop  them  very  fine,  then  sweat  them  down 
in  a  little  butter;  when  done  put  them  in  the  larder  until  wanted. 
Ihifl  comes  in  for  Italian  sauces,  and  various  other  things. 


7I6. — MUSHBOOM  SAUCE  k  l'eSPAGNOLE. 

• 

Pot  two  ladlefuls  of  brown  consomme,  commonly  called  espagnole, 
into  a  stewpan  with  two  ladlefuls  of  sauce  toumee,  and  some  mush- 
loonu ;  reduce  it  over  the  fire  to  the  thickness  of  the  sauce  you  put 
in  at  first,  then  stir  in  a  piece  of  butter,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
and  a  very  small  quantity  of  cayenne  pepper. 


717. — ^MUSTABD  SAUCE. 

Pot  two  glasses  of  stock,  shalots  shred  small,  salt  and  pepper,  into 
a  saacepan,  let  them  boil  for  half  an  hour,  then  add  a  tea-spoonful 
of  mosterd,  stir  it  in  well,  and  use  it  when  required. 

7I8.— ORANGE  SAUCE. 

Pat  into  a  stewpan  half  a  glass  of  stock,  the  same  of  gravy,  a 
afiee  of  ham,  some  small  pieoes  of  orange  peel,  about  half  an  ounce 


2li32'  aAUOBS; 


'■■I      ■!■ 


of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  nit  and  pepper;  timmer  tben  orer  tha  fire 
till  thick,  and  then  add  the  jmoe  of  an  ocange. 


719.-— OBiaOfi  BITTER   SAUCE. 

Pare  two  bitter  oranges  yery  thin,  blanch  the  rinds,  and  then  pi^| 
them  into  a  rich  espagnole  reduoed ;  add  a  small  piece  of  sugar,  and 
season  it  well ;  just  before  serving  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  one  of  the 
oranges  and  part  of  a  lemon. 


720.— ORAHOB   ORAVT  SATTCB. 

Put  half  of  yea!  gravy  into  a  saucepan,  add  to  it  half  a  dozen. 
basil  leaves,  a  small  onion,  a  roll  of  orange  or  lemon  peel,  and  let*  it 
boil  for  a  few  minutes,  and  strain  it  off;  put  to  the  clear  grayj,  the 
juice  of  a  Seville  orange  or  lemon,  half  a  tea-ip<ik>nful  of  salt,  the 
same  quantity  of  pepper,  and  a  glass  of  red  wine,  serve  it  hot;  shalot 
and  cayenne  may  be  added. 


721. ONION   SAUCE. 

The  onions  must  be  pealed,  and  then  boiled  till  they  are  tender, 
then  squeeze  the  water  from  them,  chop  them,  and  add  butter  tliat, 
has  been  melted,  rich  and  smooth,  with  a  little  good  milk  instead  of 
water ;  give  it  one  boil,  serve  it  with  boiled  rabbits,  partridges,  acrag 
or  knuckle  of  yeal,  or  roast  mutton ;  a  turnip  boiled  with  the  onioaa 
draws  out  the  strength. 


I  722.— ONION   SAUCE,   BROWN. 

Peel  and  dice  the  onions,  some  put  an  equal .  quantity  of  en- 
cumber and  of  celery,  into  a  quart  stewpan,  with  an  ounce  of  butter ; 
set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  and  turn  the  onion  about  till  it  is  slightly 
browned,  then  gradually  stir  in  half  an  ounce  of  flour,  add  a  little 
broth,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  boil  up  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  a 
table- spoonful  of  claret,  or  port  wine,  and  mushroom  ketchup ;  you 
may  add,  if  you  think  proper,  lemon  juice  or  vinegar,  and  rub  it 
through  a  tammy  or  fine  sieve. 


723. OTSTER   SAUCE. 

In  opening  the  oysters,  save  the  liquor,  and  boil  it  with  the  beards, 
a  bit  of  mace,  and  lemon  peel ;  in  the  meantime  throw  the  oysters  into 
cold-  water,  and  drain  it  off,  strain  the  liquor,  and  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  the  ojTsters  just  drained  from  the  cold  water,  with  8u£Eicient> 
quantity  of  butter,  mixed  with  as  much  milk  as  will  make  enough, 
sauce,  but  first  rub  a  little  flour  with  it ;  set  them  over  the  fire,  and 
stir  all  the  while,  and  when  the  butter  has  boiled  a  few  times,  take 
them  off,  and  keep  them  close  to  the  fire,  but  not  upon  it,  for  if  too 
inuch  done,  the  cyders  will  become  hard ;  add  a  sqaeeEO  of  lemon 
^'uice,  and  serve ;  a  little  is  a  great  improvement. 


aAxrsBa,  203 

724.— OYSTER  SAUCE  FOS  BEEF  STBAKS. 

Blaiich  a  pint  of  oyaten^  and  preMrre  their  liquor,  then  wash,  and 
beard  them,  and  put  their  liquor  into  a  stewpan  with  India  soj  and 
ketchup,  a  small  quantity  of  each,  a  gill  of  cullis,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  fresh  butter;  set  them  over  a  fire,  and  when  thej  nearly 
lioil^'  thieken  with  flour  and  water,  season  according  to  taste  with  a 
litde  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and  lemon  juice,  strain  it  to  the  oysteiB, 
and  ttew  them  gently  five  minutes. 

725. PARSLEY  SAUCE. 

Take  a  handful  of  parsley,  and  having  washed  and  picked,  pound 
it  wMj  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  some  good  cullis,  set  it  on  the 
fire,  and  let  it  simmer  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  strain ;  add  a  bit 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  a  liaison,  and  a  little  lemon  juice. 

726. — PUREE  OP  CUCUMBER  SAUCE. 

An  pur^e  sauces;,  after  having  drawn  whatever  it  is  to  be,  down, 
until  a  pass  into  some  good  white  or  brown  stock,  according  to 
whether  for  white  or  brown  sauce,  then  rub  it  through  a  tammy,  then 
add  either  your  bechemel  or  codlin  sauce  to  it,  sufficient  for  what  tou 
want,  season  it  with  cayenne  pepper,  a  dust  of  sugar  and  salt.  If  a 
puree  from  any  hard  substance  such  as  mushrooms,  truffles,  chesnuts, 
ftc,  yon  must  pound  them  well  before  you  rub  them  through  the 
tammy ;  pare  and  take  out  the  seeds  of  two  or  three  old  cucumbers, 
cat  them  into  pieces  into  a  stewpan,  with  an  onion  and  a  few  pieces 
of  ham  cut  in  small  dice,  and  just  cover  them  with  some  good  stock, 
either  white  or  brown,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  pepper  and  salt, 

~  sugar,  when  tender  rub  them  through  a  tammy,  add  some  of  your 
bechemel  or  brown  sauce  to  it. 


727. ^PUREB  OF  ONIONS. 

Cot  up  several  onions,  put  them  to  boil,  in  a  few  minutes  strain 
tkem  off,  return  them  into  the  stewpan  and  boil  them  until  quite 
tender  in  milk  and  water,  then  pass  them  through  a  tammy,  thicken 
it  with  flour  and  butter,  add  to  it  a  little  bechemel  sauce,  and  a  gill 
of  cream  according  to  the  quantity  you  may  require,  either  for  a 
remove  dish,  a  flank  dish,  or  an  entree. 


728. — ROBERT   SAUCE,   USED  MOSTLY  FOR  PORK. 

Cut  up  one  onion  in  small  dice,  a  piece  of  butter,  fry  it  a  nice 
light  brown,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  little  flour,  two  table- 
^oonfuls  of  vinegar,  the  juice  of  lemon,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt, 
and  sugar ;  a  little  good  bacon  stock,  boil  it  ^  well,  pass  it  through 
a  tammy  cloth. 

729. REMOULADE. 

fnt  some  mustard  into  a  basin  and  mix  it  up  with  some  water, 
add  to  this  a  little  shalot,  and  lavigote  both  shred,  six  spoonfuli  of 


204  SAUCES. 

oil,  four  of  Tinegar,  some  salt,  and  whole  pepper,  mix  them  well  in, 
and  then  put  in  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs,  and  condnoe  stirring 
until  the  sauce  is  yeiy  thick* 

730, — ROUX. 

Put  a  pound  of  hatter  into  a  saucepan,  keep  it  shaken,  until  dissdred, 
add  sifted  flour,  until  it  is  'of  the  consistence  of  a  moderately  thidc 
houilii;  set  it  over  a  very  hot  stove,  or  hrisk  fire,  until  it  h^ns  to  colour, 
it  must  increase,  until  of  a  clear  light  hrown ;  set  it  hy  for  use. 

731.— ROrX  WHITE* 

This  is  prepared  as  hefore,  hut  shoidd  be  placed  on  a  slow  fire  or  stoTe 
until  very  hot,  being  kept  stirred ;  it  must  not  be  allowed  to  coloiir 
at  all. 

732. — ailLAD  SAUCE. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eges  into  a  bann,  add  to  it  a 
table-spoonful  of  made  mustard,  then  add  three  table-spoonfuls  o£ 
salad  oil,  mix  it  in  smooth ;  add  white  pepper,  cayenne,  and  salt,  and 
dust  of  sugar,  five  spoonfiils  of  thick  bechamel,  a  table-spoonful  of 
tarragon  vinegar,  the  same  of  Chili  vinegar,  and  two  rooonfuls  of 
common  vinegar ;  mix  all  well  together  with  half  a  gill  of  cream.  If 
this  sauce  is  required  for  fish-salads,  add  a  few  drops  of  essence  q£ 
anchovies,  and  sprinkle  over  the  sauce  a  little  fine-chopped  parsley 
the  last  thing. 


733. — BAUCB  k  L  ALLEMANDE. 

Put  a  slice  of  ham  and  some  champignons  previously  dressed  and 
shred  into  a  stewpan,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  when  the  ham  begins  to 
stick,  moisten  it  with  stock  and  consomme;  boil  and  reduce  it,  then 
take  off  the  fat,  strain  the  sauce,  and  add  to  it  some  scalded  parsley, 
two  fat  livers,  capers,  anchovies,  scallions,  all  chopped,  add  a  bit  of 
butter,  put  it  again  on  the  fire,  and  when  of  the  requisite  consistency 
take  out  the  scallions  and  put  in  some  magnonnaise,  and  lemon  juice, 
and  strain  it  for  use. 


734. — SAUCB  A  LA  MADELAINE. 

Put  a  few  bread  crumbs,  two  shred  shalots,  a  bit  of  butter,  half  a 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  consomme  into  a  stewpan, 
set  them  on  the  fire  and  give  them  a  boil  up  together ;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt.     This  sauce  should  not  be  too  thick. 

735. — SAUCE   AUX  ATELETS. 

Put  some  veloute  or  a  bit  of  butter,  into  a  stewpan  with  some 
parsley,  scallions,  and  champignons,  all  shred  small,  set  them  on  the 
fire,  and  when  they  begin  to  fry  add  a  little  stock,  flour,  pepper,  nut- 
meg, a  bay  leaf,  and  salt,  reduce  the  whole  to  a  consistence  of  a 
bouille,  take  out  the  bay  leaf,  put  in  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  stir 
till  sufficiently  thick ;  be  careful  not  to  let  it  boil. 


SAUCES.  205 


736. — SAVCEy  HARYSY. 

Chop  twelre  anchoyies,  bones  and  all,  vei^  small,  with  one  ounce 
of  cayenne  pepper,  six  spoonfuls  of  soy,  six  ditto  of  good  walnut 
pidde,  three  heads  of  garlic  chopped  not  very  small,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  cochineal,  two  heads  of  shalots  chopped  rather  large,  one 
nlkm  of  yinegar;  let  it  stand  fourteen  days,  stir  it  well  twice  or 
Alice  CTCiy  day,  dien  pass  it  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  repeat  this  till 
il  is  ^te  clear ;  then  bottle  it,  and  tie  a  bladder  orer  the  cork. 

737. — SAUCE  (Italian)  por  salads. 

Mix  together  three  table-spooniuls  of  sauce  toumee,  one  of  mus* 
lard,  some  tarragon  and  chenril  shred  small,  with  three  table- 
qM>onfuls  of  Florence  oil;  putting  in,  however,  a  little  at  a  time;  when 
perfectly  smooth,  add  also,  by  degrees,  a  glass  of  tarragon  vinegar, 
md  a  little  salt.    This  sauce  cannot  be  too  much  mixed. 


738. — sauce  minced. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  parsley,  shalots,  champignons,  of  each  a  spoon- 
fill  shred,  half  a  glass  of  vinegar,  and  a  little  pepper;  set  these  on  the 
fire  till  there  remains  scarcely  any  vinegar,  then  add  four  ladlefuls  of 
eqpagnole,  and  the  same  of  stock ;  reduce  and  take  the  fat  from  the 
Mace.  When  done,  put  in  a  spoonful  of  capers,  two  gherkins  shred, 
wmr  it  into  another  saucepan,  and  set  it  in  the  bain  marie;  just  before 
xt  is  sent  to  table  pound  an  anchovy  or  two  with  a  little  butter 
which  beat  up  with  the  sauce. 

739. — sauce  piquant  e. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  vinegar,  some  allspice, 
a  pinch  of  pepper,  a  bay-leaf,  and  a  little  thyme;  let  this  remain 
on  the  fire  till  reduced  to  half,  then  add  two  ladlefuls  of  espagnole, 
md  two  of  stock,  set  it  on  the  fire  again,  when  about  the  consistence 
of  dear  booilli  it  is  sufficiently  done ;  put  salt  according  to  taste. 

740. — SAUCE,   ROBERT. 

Cat  a  few  onions  into  dice,  which  put  into  a  fryingpan  with  a  bit 
of  butter,  and  fry  them  lightly ;  when  nicely  browned,  add  a  dessert 
spoonful  of  flour,  a  ladleful  of  stock,  the  same  of  vinegar,  some  salt, 
and  pepper;  reduce  it  to  a  proper  thickness,  and  when  ready  for  table 
ftir  in  two  dessert-spoonfuls  of  mustard. 

741. SAUCE,   ROMAINE. 

Cut  a  pound  of  veal,  and  half  a  pound  of  ham  into  dice,  and  put 
them  into  a  saucepan,  with  two  legs  of  fowls,  three  or  four  carrots, 
fisur  onions,  two  bay  leaves,  three  cloves,  a  little  hasil,  half  a  pound 
of  butter,  and  some  salt ;  set  these  on  rather  a  brisk  fire.  In  the 
Beonwhile,  pound  the  yolks  of  twelve  hard  eggs  to  a  paste,  which 
pot  to  the  above,  and  stir  them  in  until  the  butter  is  melted ;  then 
poor  in  by  degrees  a  quart  of  cream,  set  the  saucepan  again  on  the 
fire  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  stirring  all  the  time ;  if  it  be  too  thick 
add  more  cream,  or  milk,  when  sufficiently  done  strain  through  a 
boltiDg-cloth. 


206  SAUCES. 

742. — eJLVCBj  SPAKIBH. 

Take  the  meat  from  a  cold  roasted  partridge,  put  it  into  a  mortar, 
with  partridge  lirers  and  tmffles;  pound  them  to  rather  a  liqaid 
paste,  moistening  with  some  good  gravj,  two  glasses  of  red  wine,  two 
slices  of  onions,  a  cloye  or  two  of  garlic,  and  two  glasses  of  the  paste; 
make  it  quite  hot,  and  then  strain  it  into  another  stewpan;  add  the 
partridge  to  it,  and  a  littfe  essence  of  ham,  season  it  well,  and  let  it 
boil  well  £oT  sometime. 


743.— -SAUCS   BUFBEMB. 

Put  one  ladleful  of  Teloute  and  four  of  essence  of  fowl  into  a 
saucepan,  set  in  on  the  fire,  and  when  reduced  to  half  put  in  a  tea- 
qpoomul  of  parsley  shred  small  and  scalded,  a  little  fresh  butter,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  some  pepper;  place  it  on  the  fire  and  make  it 
quite  hot,  but  not  boiling,  vanner  it  well,  and  serve  quickly. 


f   744. — SOUFFLJS   SAUCB. 

Take  eight  truffles,  clean  and  cut  them  round,  and  then  eat  thsn 
in  thin  slices  into  a  stewpan ;  set  them  to  stew  very  gently  with  a 
small  bit  of  butter.  When  well  stewed  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
consomme,  and  let  it  simmer  till  nearly  done,  then  put  in  some  becha- 
mel sauce-*the  quantity  must  be  regulated  according  to  what  you 
want  it  for.  Make  it  very  hot,  squeeze  in  a  little  lemon  juice,  it  is 
then  ready.  If  you  wish  the  sauce  brown,  put  in  espagnole  instead 
of  bechemel  sauce. 


745.— 0ORBKL  8A17CB. 

Wash  some  sorrel,  squeeze  it  into  a  stewpan  with  an  onion,  four 
cloves,  a  piece  of  fat  and  lean  ham,  cover  it  over  and  put  it  over  a 
slow  fire ;  when  drawn  down  rub  the  sorrel  through  a  fine  hair  sieve, 
add  cream  and  a  little  white  sauce,  sugar,  salt,  and  pepper. 


746.— SPINACH  SAUCE. 

Let  your  spinach  be  well  washed  and  picked,  and  boiled  vei^ 
green,  str^n  it  off,  and  rub  it  through  a  wire  sieve;  add  to  it 
bechemel,  a  piece  of  butter,  half  a  gill  of  cream,  a  little  sugar,  salt 
and  pepper. 


747. — SUPBBIOB  BAUCB  FOB  PLUM   PUDVIKG. 

Mix  six  yolks  of  eggs  with  four  spoonfuls  of  rifled  sugar  and  but- 
ter mixed  together;  have  a  pint  of  boiling  cream  which  you  will  mix 
vrith  your  yolks,  afterwards  put  it  on  the  fire  and  stir  it  until  it  is  of 
the  consistency  of  sauce,  then  add  to  it  a  good  wine-glass  of  brandy. 

748. — TABRAGON   SACCB. 

Extract  firom  some  green  tarragon  by  putting  it  into  some  second 


6AUCBS.  207 


ttock,  reducing  it  gently;  tben  strain  it  off,  and  add  some  b^hemel 
to  the  liquor,  and  a  little  finelj-clK>pped  tarragon,  in  some  leaTea, 
blanched  and  put  into  the  sauce.  Season  with  sugar,  salt,  and  oajenne 
pepper. 

749. TABRAOON  SAUCE. 

Put  two  table-spoonfuls  of  tarragon  vinegar  into  a  saucepan,  and 
reduce  it  to  half  the  quantity,  then  put  to  it  six  spoonfuls  of  good 
birtter  sauce  and  mix  all  well  together,  and  if  not  sufficiently  strong 
pal  to  it  a  litde  bit  of  glaze,  and  a  very  little  more  tarragon  vinegar. 

750. — TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Fresh  tomatos,  take  out  stalk,  press  them  all  tightly  down  in  a 
stewpan,  cover  them,  put  them  on  the  fire,  strain  off  the  liquor  that 
is  drawn  from  them,  add  to  the  tomatos  a  slice  of  raw  ham,  two 
thalots,  a  few  spoonfhls  of  good  stock,  let  it  stew  for  an  hour,  then 
rub  it  through  a  tammy  sieve.  Have  in  another  stewpan  a  little  good 
hiown  sauce,  put  your  tomato  into  it,  boil  all  together,  season  with 
cayenne,  salt,  sugar,  and  lemon  juice. 

751.— SAUCE  TFALIENNE. 

Pat  some  lemon  thyme,  parsley,  and  mushrooms,  shred  small  and 
fine,  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  little  butter  and  a  clove  of  garlic,  set  it  on 
a  moderate  fire,  as  soon  as  the  butter  begins  to  fry,  pour  in  a  little 
consomme,  and  let  it  stew  till  pretty  thick,  then  take  out  the  garlic, 
aid  some  butter  sauce  and  a  little  lemon  juice. 


752.^-fiAUCE,   SWEET. 

Ptal  some  cinnamon  into  a  saucepan  with  as  much  water  as  will 
cover  it,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  has  boiled  up  once  or  twice, 
add  two  spoonfuls  of  pounded  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  white 
wine,  and  two  bay  leaves,  give  the  whole  one  boil,  and  then  strain  it 
ibrtable. 


753 &AUCS,  VNITSE8AI.. 

Take  half  a  doien  split  shalots,  a  clove  of  garlic,  two  bay  leaves, 
mU  thyme,  truffles,  tarragon  leaves,  half  an  ounce  of  bruised  mus- 
tard teed,  some  Seville  orange  peel,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves, 
the  same  of  mace,  double  the  quantity  of  long  pepper,  and  two 
oimces  of  salt ;  put  all  these  ingredients  to  infuse  in  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  half  a  glass  of  verjuice,  four  or  five  spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and 
a  pint  of  white  wine,  put  them  into  a  jar,  cover  it  as  closely  as  pos- 
nble,  set  it  on  hot  ashes  for  twenty-four  hours,  at  the  end  of  that 
time  let  it  stand  to  settle,  and  when  clear  pour  it  off,  strain,  and 
bottle  it. 


754. — SAUCE,   WHITE. 

vp  a  q[iiarter  of  a  pound  ot  butter  and  a  teorspoonfnl  of 


208  SAUCES. 


flour,  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  when  well  worked  up  add  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  yinegar,  and  a  little  water,  set  these  on  the  fire 
and  stir  it  till  thick,  be  careful  not  to  let  it  boil  , 


755. — SAUCE,  WHITE  FISH. 

Simmer  together  an  anchoyy,  a  little  horseradish  sensed,  some 
mace,  an  onion  stuck  with  clores,  a  piece  of  lemon  peel,  a  glass  of 
white  wine,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  water;  when  properly  reduced 
strain  it,  and  then  add  two  spoonfuls  of  cream,  a  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  set  it  on  the  fire  and  keep  stirring  till  it  boils ;  when 
ready  to  serre  put  in  a  Uttle  lemon  juice  and  ketchup. 


756. — SHBIUP  RATSOK 

Put  half  a  pint  of  picked  shrimps  into  a  stewnan  with  some  butter 
sauce  and  a  very  little  essence  of  anchoyy,  make  it  rery  hot,  add  a 
little  lemon  juice,  and  serre  it  to  table* 


757* — SHBIMP  SAUCB — ^ANOTHBR   BECBIPT. 

Mix  a  good  piece  of  butter  with  some  flour,  boil  it  up  in  a  little 
rich  grayy^  put  in  the  shrimps  nicely  picked,  giro  the  whole  one 
boiL 


758. — ^TAMATO  SAUCE  FBAN9AISE. 

Out  ten  tomatos  into  quarters  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with 
four  onions  sliced,  a  little  parsley,  thyme,  one  clore,  and  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter ;  set  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  stirring  occasionally, 
for  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  strain  the  sauce  through  a  horse-hair 
sieve,  and  serve  with  the  directed  articles. 


759. — ^TOMATOS,  GABNITUBE  OP. 

Take  thirty  tomatos,  all  as  near  of  a  size  as  possible  and  of  a  good 
form,  cut  them  in  halves,  press  out  the  juice,  seeds,  and  pieces  by 
the  side  of  the  stalk,  but  do  it  with  great  care  lest  the  skins  should 
be  injured;  make  a  farce  as  follows: — ^take  a  little  ham,  C&rlic, 
parsley,  shalots,  champignons  shred,  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled 
eggs,  crumb  of  bread,  an  anchovy,  butter,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  allspice, 
give  all  these  a  boil,  then  pound  them  well,  adding  at  times  a  little 
oil,  strain  it  through  a  quenelle  sieve;  fill  the  tomatos  with  this  farce, 
place  them  on  a  baking  tin,  cover  them  with  grated  bread  crumbs 
and  Parmesan  cheese,  moisten  them  with  a  little  oil,  and  bake  them 
in  a  hot  oven ;  serve  the  tomatos  as  a  garnish  to  a  rump  of  beef,  or 
any  other  joint  you  may  think  proper. 


760. — TOBiATO  SAUCE  k  L*ITALIBNNE. 

Take  five  or  six  ounces,  sHce,  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  little  thyme,  bay  leaf,  twelve  tomatos,  a  bit  of  butter,  salt,  hidf  a 


SAUGEfi.  209 

doMii  allipioe,  a  litde  Indian  saffron,  and  a  glass  of  stock ;  set  them 
on  the  fire,  taking  care  to  stir  it  £i«quentiy,  as  it  is  opt  to  stick ; 
iHien  jou  perceive  the  sauce  is  thick  strain  it  like  a  puree. 


761.— TRUFFLE  SAUCE. 

ICnoe  two  or  three  truffles  very  small,  and  toss  them  up  tightly  in 
oil  or  butter,  according  to  taste ;  then  put  to  them  four  ladle- 
spoonfuls  of  yeloute,  and  a  spoonful  of  consomme,  let  it  boil  for 
aboitt  a  quarter  of  an  hour  oyer  a  gentle  fire,  skim  all  the  fat  off, 
keep  your  sauce  hot  in  the  bain  marie. 


762. — ^TURNIP  SAUCE. 

Pare  four  turnips  and  let  them  simmer  in  a  little  water  until  done, 
and  the  liquor  is  reduced ;  then  rub  them  through  a  sieye.  Add  to 
them  a  little  bechemel,  then  cut  some  more  turnips  in  shapes  as  for 
haricot,  simmer  them  also  the  same  as  the  first  and  then  add  them  to 
the  others. 


763. — ^VENISON   SAUCE, 

Serve  with  venison,  currant-jelly  by  itself,  or  warmed  with  port 
wine,  or  port  wine  warmed  by  itself. 

764.— WALNUT  KETCHUP  FOR  FISH  SAUCE. 

Take  a  quart  of  walnut  pickle,  add  to  it  a  Quarter  of  a  pound  of 
anchovies,  and  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  red  wine,  and  let  it  boil 
till  reduced  to  one  third,  then  strain  it,  and  when  cold  put  it  into 
small  bottles  and  keep  them  closely  corked. 

765. — ^WINE  MADEIRA  SAUCE. 

Take  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour,  and  a  preserved  green  lemon  cut  into 
dice,  mix  them  with  a  glass  of  Madeira  wine,  and  a  little  consomme, 
an  ounce  of  butter,  some  salt  and  nutmeg,  set  them  on  to  boil  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  then  take  it  off,  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  o£' 
batter,  set  it  on  the  fire,  stirring  it  until  the  butter  is  melted. 


766.— ^RATIK. 

Put  in  a  stewpan  with  a  piece  of  butter  half  a  pound  of  fillet 
of  Teal  cut  into  dice,  mushrooms,  parsley,  shalots  chopped  fine, 
salt,  pepper,  and  spice,  stir  them  up  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and 
when  the  meat  has  been  on  the  fire  a  quarter  of  an  hour  drain  off 
the  butter,  mince  it  very  small  and  put  into  a  mortar  with  fifteen 
&wn  or  game  livers,  well  washed  and  parboiled,  all  the  bitter  parts 
taken  out  and  pounded,  adding  at  times  as  much  granada  as  you 
haye  meat;  boU  some  calf-udders,  trim  and  remove  all  the  skin 
when  cold,  add  just  about  a  third  the  quantity  of  meat  and  pound 
them  together,  adding,  one  at  a  time,  three  yolks,  three  whole  eggs, 

P 


210  8AUCBS. 


season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  spice,  when  well  ponnded  set  it  by  is 
an  earthen  pan  for  use. 


767. — RISSOLES  OP   ALL   KINDS. 

Chop  some  dressed  chicken  or  veal  very  fine,  fry  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  shalot,  and  mushrooms,  Tery  fine,  and  a  little  slice  of  tongue 
or  ham  or  not,  fry  them  in  one  ounce  of  butter  a  few  minutes,  stimng 
it  with  a  wooden  spoon  all  the  time ;  dry  the  butter  up  with  flour, 
then  add  a  few  small  spoonfuls  of  good  veal  stock,  a  gill  of  cream,  three 
spoonfuls  of  bechemel  sauce ;  now  put  in  all  your  diopped  meat,  and 
a  little  sugiir,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt, 
and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  boil  all  well  until  quite  stiff,  take  it  out  of 
your  stewpan  on  to  a  dish  to  get  cold;  when  cold  form  them  into  a  shape, 
either  as  penrs  or  long  halls,  using  bread  crumbs  to  form  them, 
put  them  to  get  cold ;  in  the  meantime  break  two  eggs  in  a  basin, 
and  then  egg  the  forms  once  or  twice,  and  bread  crumb  them,  hanre 
your  fat  quite  hot  to  fry  them,  which  you  will  know  in  anodier  place 
in  the  book,  dish  them  on  a  napkin  with  fried  parsley. 


768. — FARCE  OF   VEAL,   OR   FOWL. 

Cut  up  a  fowl,  or  some  veal,  form  the  fillet  into  small  dice,  cut 
in  the  same  quantity  of  good  iat  ham  cut  small,  and  a  few  truffles, 
a  little  parsley,  shalots,  and  a  little  of  all  kinds  of  fine  sweet  herbs, 
and  a  few  chopped  mushrooms,  and  one  blade  of  mace,  three  clores, 
put  it  all  in  a  stewpan  to  draw  down,  with  half  a  pound  of  butter  for 
one  hour;  season  it,  add  bread  crumbs  to  dry  up  the  fat,  then  put  it 
into  your  mortar  and  pound  it  very  fine,  then  rub  it  through  a  wire 
sieve,  return  it  back  into  the  mortar,  and  work  in  three  or  four  ^gs, 
leaving  out  one  or  two  whites;  mix  it  well  up  together,  and  put 
it  into  the  larder  until  required.  If  you  want  any  green,  colour 
some  with  prepared  spinach  juice ;  this  will  do  for  all  cold  pies, 
or  game,  or  filling  turkeys,  or  boned  fowls,  or  galantine. 

You  may  make  this  farce  with  dressed  meat,  then  you  must  not 
place  it  to  draw  down  on  the  fire ;  all  the  rest  the  same,  only  truffles, 
and  mushrooms  as  well  as  the  rest  must  be  fijrst  dressed. 


769. — FARCES   AND    STUFFINGS. 

A  veal  stuffing.  Cliop  some  suet  fine,  a  little  parsley,  a  small  piece 
of  shalot,  rub  through  a  dry  sieve  a  small  quantity  of  basil,  knotted 
marjoram,  thyme,  add  these  to  your  suet,  a  grating  of  half  a  lemon, 
a  few  grains  of  nutmeg,  a  few  bread  crumbs,  and  one  or  two  eggs, 
mix  all  well  up  together,  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
'♦  If  for  game,  scrape  the  raw  livers  into  the  stuffing,  prepared  as 
above,  only  in  addition  pound  it  all  fine. 


770. FORCEMEAT    INGREDIENTS. 

Forcemeat  meat  should  be  made  to  cut  with  a  knife,  but  not  dry 


aAUCEfl. 


ail 


or  heaTj,  no  one  flavour  should  predominate ;  according  to  what  it 
is  wanted  for  a  choice  may  be  made  from  the  following  list;  be 
careful  to  use  the  least  of  those  articles  that  are  most  pungent,  cold 
fowl  or  veal  or  ham,  scraped  fat  bacon,  beef  suet,  crumbs  of  bread, 
parsley,  white  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  to  bind  the  mixture.  Any  of  the  following  articles  may 
be  used  to  alter  the  taste;  oysters,  anchovies,  tarragon,  savory, 
pennyroyal,  marjoram,  thyme,  basil,  yolks  of  hard  eggs,  cayenne, 
garlic,  shalots,  endives,  Jamaica  pepper  in  powder,  or  "^wo  or  three 
cloves. 


771  • — FOBCEMEA.T8,  ETC. 


Cold  fowl,  veal,  or  mutton. 

Scraped  ham,  or  gammon. 

Fat  bacon,  or  fat  ham. 

Beef  suet. 

Veal  suet. 

Butter. 

Marrow. 

Soaked  bread,  and   crumbs  of 

liread. 
Partlej  and  wkite  pepper. 
Salt  and  votaif* 
GoldMlM. 
Oysten. 
tovies* 


Lobster,  tarragon. 

Savoy,  pennyroyal. 

Knotted  marjoram. 

Thyme  and  lemon  thyme. 

Basil  and  sage. 

Lemon  peel. 

Tolks  of  hard  eggs. 

Whites  and  yolks  of  eggs. 

Mace  and  cloves. 

Cayenne  and  garlic. 

Shalot  and  onion. 

Chives  and  chervil. 

Oroond   popper   and    two   or 


772.-<-iiBow]r  counmaa  hob  sudv  vibbzb. 

Tsbt  finir  otmees  of  sugaiv  beat  it  fint,  put  it  into  an  iron  frying 
R  or  eartiien  piplda,  set  it  over  a  dear  fire,  and  when  the  sugar  is 
iMUad  it  will  be  frothy,  nat  it  lu^^er  from  the  6ve  until  it  is  a  fine 
browB,  keep  it  stixring  aii  Am  time;  fill  the  pan  op  with  red  wine, 
take  caea  tiat  it  does  act  boil  over«  add  a  little  salt  and  lemon,  put  a 
liltJe  dows  and  mace,  a  shalot  or  two,  boil  it  gently  for  ten  minutes, 
it  in  a  basin  till  it  is  odd,  th^i  bottle  it  tor  use. 


P  2 


TEOETABLES,  SALADS,  ETC 


CHAPTER  XIL 
TXGSIABIES,  SALADS,  ETC. 


Vegetables  fonn  a  moit  imporlant  feature  in  the  art  of  cooking ; 
it  is  the  boast  of  French  cookn  that  we  neither  know  the  value,  lh« 
taste,  or  the  virtues  of  tbem  unless  they  dress  them  for  us,  and  to  do 
them  justice,  they  dreas  them  in  an  infinite  variety  of  ways,  and  also 
render  them  delicious  to  the  pslate.  Much  depends  upon  boiling 
greens,  and  the  manner  in  which  it  is  done;  the  water  should  be 
soft,  a  handM  of  salt  should  be  thrown  into  the  water,  which 
should  be  made  to  boil  before  the  greens  are  put  in ;  it  should  then 
be  made  what  cooks  term  "  gallop,"  the  saucepan  should  be  kept 
uncovered,  and  when  the  greens  sink  they  are  done,  take  them  out, 
and  quickly  too ;  h  is  the  skill  which  French  cooks  exhibit  ia  con- 


TEOETABLES^  SALADS^  ETC.  2l3 

triving  and  inTenting  made  dishes,  chiefly  composed  of  vegetables, 
which  has  obtained  for  them  the  fame  which  it  is  in  vain  to  deny 
they  deserve,  they  make  the  nature  of  the  substances  upon  which 
they  employ  their  skill,  their  study,  and  present  them  to  the  con- 
sumer in  such  fashion  as  shall,  while  it  pleases  the  palate,  not 
offend  the  digestion;  it  would  be  as  well  if  our  cooks  were  to 
emulate  their  skill  in  a  spirit  of  generous  rivalry  by  improving  upon 
their  example,  rather  than  run  down  their  abilities  with  a  sneer  at 
the  slight  character  of  their  courses,  which,  if  composed  of  dishes 
*•  made  out  of  nothing,"  or,  "  so  disguised  you  cannot  tell  what  you 
are  eating,"  have  at  least  the  merit  of  gratifying  the  taste,  and 
preventing  the  head  from  too  plainly  indicating  that  the  stomach 
has  received  food  of  which  it  finds  a  difficulty  in  dispossessing 
itself.  Vegetables  are  a  most  useful  accessory  to  our  daily  food, 
and  should  be  made  the  object  of  a  greater  study  than  they  are 
usually. 


773. — CHABTREUSE  OF  VEGETABLES. 

line  a  plain  mould  with  bacon ;  have  ready  half  done  carrots^ 
tamipt,  Inench  beans  cut  long  with  a  French  cutter  aU  the  same 
lBlgui>  place  them  prettily  round  the  mould  until  you  get  to  the 
lop,  fill  m  the  middle  with  mashed  potatoes,  cauliflower,  or  spinach, 
^  ■ome  veal  forcemeat ;  put  it  on  to  steam,  turn  it  out,  and  put 
or  mushroom  sauce  round  it. 


774. — ASPABA0U8. 

Let  the  stalks  be  lightly  but  well  scraped,  and  as  they  are  done 
be  thrown  into  cold  water ;  when  all  are  finished  fasten  them  into 
Imdles  of  equal  size;  put  them  into  boiling  water,  throw  in  a 
handful  of  salt,  boil  until  the  end  of  the  stalk  becomes  tender,  it 
will  be  about  half  an  hour ;  cut  a  round  of  bread  and  toast  it  a 
clear  brown,  moisten  it  with  the  water  in  which  the  asparagus  was 
boiled,  and  arrange  the  stalks  with  the  white  end  outwards.  A 
good  melted  butter  must  accompany  it  to  table. 

Asparagus  should  be  dressed  as  soon  after  it  has  been  cut  as 
pxacticable. 


77^- — ASPARAGUS  EN  CBOUSTADE. 

Mix  up  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  in  some  paste  a  nouille,  then  form 
it  into  an  under  crust,  cut  it  into  a  band  nineteen  inches  long,  and 
two  inches  and  a  quarter  wide.  With  the  cuttings  of  your,  paste 
ibnn  a  round  six  inches  in  diameter,  and  around  this  put  your 
band  in  form  of  a  croostade,  pinch  up  your  paste  into  proper 


SU  VSOETABLSS^  BALiJX9»  STa 


shape,  and  omament  it  lightly  round;  gild  it,  and  pot  it  to  drj  in  a 
slow  oven;  this  done,  take  a  fine  head  of  aiparagus,  and  place  it 
standing  ngright  in  the  middle  of  your  croustade*  surround  this 
with  six  more  heads  of  asparagus,  nine  inches  in  length ;  surround 
these  with  twelve  more,  eight  inches  in  length;  round  these  put 
seventeen  more,  seven  inches  in  length ;  add  two  more  roimds  of 
asparagus,  the  one  six  inches  in  length,  the  other  five  inches  in  length. 

Great  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  boiling  of  asparagus  for 
this  entremet,  as  it  should  be  of  a  nice  green  colour^  and  the 
moment  it  is  sufiiciently  boiled,  which  is  when  it  becomes  firm,  it 
should  be  put  into  cold  water  to  cool  it. 

This  is  an  extremely  pretty  and  ornamental  way  of  serving  this 
vegetable  cold.     It  should  be  eaten  with  oil. 


776. — ^ASPARAGUS  FORCED. 

Scoop  out  the  crumb  of  three  or  four  French  rolls,  preserving  the 
piece  cut  from  the  top,  which  will  have  to  be  fitted  on  to  the  part  it 
was  cut  from ;  put  into  a  pan  with  some  fresh  butter,  the  rolls,  and 
fry  them  brown,  beat  up  with  a  pint  of  cream,  the  yolks  of  six  eg^, 
flavour  with  some  grated  nutmeg  and  a  little  salt,  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pan,  and  over  a  slow  fire,  let  it  gpradually  thicken,  stirring  it  all  the 
time. 

Have  ready  the  tops  of  a  bundle  of  asparagus,  say  a  hundred, 
and  having  boiled  them  tender  put  them  into  the  cream  and  fill  the 
rolls  with  the  mixture,  reserving  a  few  tops  to  stick  in  each  roll  by 
way  of  garnish. 

777- — ^ASPARAGUS — ITALIAN  FASHION. 

Take  some  asparagus,  break  them  in  pieces ;  then  boil  them  soft 
and  drain  the  water  off,  take  a  little  oil,  water,  and  vinegar,  let  it 
boil,  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  throw  in  the  asparagus,  and 
thicken  with  the  white  of  eggs. 

Endive,  done  this  way,  is  good ;  green  peas,  done  as  above,  are 
very  good,  only  add  a  lettuce  cut  small  and  two  or  three  onioDS, 
and  leave  out  the  eggs. 

778. — ^ASPERGK  A  LA  POIS.— FRBKCtt  RECEIPT. 

When  asparagus  is  first  in  season,  and  too  small  to  make  a  hand- 
some appearance,  this  mode  of  dressing  it  is  very  good ;  take  the 
asparagus  and  cut  off  only  the  green  heads,  none  of  the  white  stalk 
must  be  retained,  put  them  into  clear  cold  water,  and  when  clean 
pop  them  into  boiling  water,  in  which  salt  has  been  thrown ;  in  ten 
minutes  they  will  be  tender ;  they  may  then  be  taken  out  and  laid 
upon  a  white  cloth,  which  must  be  used  to  wipe  them  dry,  lay  in  a 
stewpan  a  slice  of  butter,  when  it  is  melted  put  in  the  asparagus, 
stew  them  over  a  quick  fire,  keep  them  turning,  when  ten  minutes 
have  elapsed,  dredge  a  litde  fiour  and  a  small  quantity  of  white 
sugar  in  powder  over  them ;  beat  up  the  yolkS  of  a  couple  of  eggs, 
pour  over  the  asparagus  Just  sufficient  water  to  cover  ^em,  boii  up 


TXGETABLBS,  SALHDS,  BTC.  215 


Stir  in  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  and  making  a  pjramid 
aqpazagut  in  the  diah,  serve  Tcry  hot. 


779. — ^ANGELICA. 

When  the  stalks  are  tender  cut  them  in  lengths  of  three  or  four 
indiea,  hoil  them  well  in  a  very  little  water,  keep  them  covered,  then 
take  them  up  and  peel  them,  and  hoil  again  until  a  nice  green,  take 
them  np  on  a  cloth  to  dry,  lay  them  in  an  earthen  pan,  adding  to 
every  pound  of  stalks  a  pound  of  sifted  sugiir,  let  it  lie  for  several 
dejs*  and  then  hoil  the  angelica  until  very  green,  take  it  up  on  your 
sieve  to  drain,  then  sift  well  over  it  some  fine  pounded  sugar,  lay  it 
In  the  sun  or  in  your  hot  closet  to  dry  if  for  candying. 


780. ^ARTICHOKES. 

Cut  away  the  outside  leaves  and  make  the  stalk  as  even  as 
possihle,  put  them  into  hoiling  water  with  some  salt,  if  they  are 
Tery  yoimg  they  will  he  tender  in  half  an  hour,  if  ratner  old  they 
will  require  an  hour  heforc  they  are  thoroughly  tender,  drain  and 
txim  the  points  of  the  leaves,  serve  with  melted  huttcr. 

They  are  hettcr  for  heing  kept  two  or  three  days. 


781 .  — JERUSALEM  ARTICnOKES. 

Pare  them  af^r  heing  well  washed,  very  smooth  and  of  some  kind 
«f  shape,  boil  them  in  milk  and  water,  pay  great  attention  to  them, 
as  if  not  taken  up  the  time  they  are  soft  they  will  break ;  they  are 
served  up  with  various  kinds  of  sauces,  white  and  brown,  or  fried  in 
hitter,  and  dished  upon  a  napkin  with  fried  parsley. 


782. — ARTICHOKES   A   LA   ST.   CLOUD. 

Trim  and  boil  them  until  the  chokes  come  out ;  then  drain  and  let 
Aem  cool ;  have  ready  as  many  small  pigeons,  stewed  and  well  sea- 
soned, as  Tou  have  artichokes,  each  of  which  must  be  stuffed  with  a 
pigeon ;  dip  them  in  a  good  batter  made  of  flour,  eggs,  a  spoonful  of 
ei^  and  a  httk  salt;  fry  it  in  a  hot  pan  with  plenty  of  dripping. 

783. — LEAF  ARTICHOKES. 

About  six  artichokes  will  do  for  a  dish,  cut  the  bottoms  even  off, 
trim  the  top  leaves  off  to  a  point,  cut  off  the  end  of  the  leaves  at  the 
point,  boil  them  about  an  hour  if  not  very  young,  send  melted  batter 
laaboaL 


784. — ^ARTICHOKE   BOTTOMS 

Are  prepared  in  a  variety  of  fashions.  The  way  is  to  parboil  the 
artichokes  and  remove  the  leaves  and  chokes  also,  lay  the  bottoms 
into  jars  with  a  good  brine,  tie  them  over,  and  let  them  remain 
wrtil  required  for  use,  or  dry  them  in  an  oven,  and  keep  them  in 
dose  covered  jars. 


216  YBGETABLESy  SALADS^   BTC. 

When  they  are  to  be  dressed,  soak  them  in  warm  water  at  least 
two  hours  and  a  half,  then  stew  them  in  a  good  gravy,  or  boil 
them  plainly,  and  eat  them  with  melted  butter,  or  instead  of  melted 
butter  pour  into  each  bottom  a  spoonful  of  tomato  sauce.  They 
are  sometimes  added  to  ragouts  or  meat  pies. 


585.— ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS. 

1£  dried  you  must  soak  them  well  for  some  time,  then  stew  them 
in  some  good  second  stock  until  tender,  take  up  the  artichokes  and 
reduce  the  stock,  add  to  it  a  little  brown  sauce  seasoned  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  sugar,  a  few  green  peas  in  the  middle  of  each  or  alternately, 
some  scooped  turnips  boiled  and  put  into  each,  glaze  the  artichokes 
before  you  add  those  to  them,  sauce  in  the  dish. 


786. — ^ABTICHOKES  7BIED. 

Divide  the  artichoke  into  four  parts,  trim  the  leaves  cleverly  and 
remove  the  chokes ;  put  them  into  scalding  water  to  blanch,  and. 
keep  them  there  until  nearly  tender,  let  them  drain,  make  a  pickle 
of  oil  and  vinegar  well  mixed,  pepper  and  salt;  let  them  remain  two 
hours,  dip  them  into  some  rich  batter,  and  having  the  pan  prepared 
with  boiling  lard,  fry  them  and  send  them  to  table  on  a  napkin. 


787- — ARTICHOKE   SALAD. — FRENCH   RECEIPT. 

The  artichokes  should  be  very  young,  the  choke  having  scarcely 
formed,  clean  them  and  let  them  soak  thoroughly,  drain  tibem,  take 
off  the  stalks  close  and  even,  and  send  them  to  table  with  the 
vegetables  to  form  the  salad.  This  is  a  favourite  mode  in  Paris  of 
dressing  them. 


788. PRENCH   BEAMS. 

When  very  young  the  ends  and  stalks  only  should  be  removed, 
and  as  they  are  done  thrown  into  cold  spring  water ;  when  to  be 
dressed  put  them  in  boiling  water  which  has  been  salted  with  a 
small  quantity  of  common  salt,  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour  they  will  be 
done,  the  criterion  is  when  they  become  tender,  the  saucepan  should 
be  left  uncovered,  there  should  not  be  too  much  water,  and  they 
should  be  kept  boiling  rapidly. 

When  they  are  at  their  full  growth  the  ends  and  strings  should 
be  taken  off  and  the  bean  divided  lengthways  and  across,  or 
according  to  the  present  fashion  slit  diagonally  or  aslant 

A  small  piece  of  soda  a  little  larger  than  a  good  sized  pea,  if  put 
into  the  boiling  water  with  the  beans,  or  with  any  vegetables,  will 
preserve  that  beautiful  green  which  it  is  so  desirable  for  them  to 
possess  when  placed  upon  the  table. 


789. — FRENCH  BEAlfS — TO  KEEP. 

Gather  them,  string  them,  and  put  them  into  bottles,  if  large  cut 
them,  shake  the  bottle,  the  beans  may  lie  close,  and  proceed  mm 


VSOETABLES^  SAULDS,  BTO.  217 

with  Windsor  beans ;  white  beans  are  done  in  the  same  manner, 
.but  they  must  not  be  gathered  until  the  shell  has  turned  yellow, 
they  must  be  two  hours  in  the  bainmarie ;  one  hour  is  enough  for 
the  green. 

790. FBSNCH  BEANS — TO  KEEP. 

Gather  them  on  a  dry  day,  and  lay  them  in  the  sun,  keep  them 
in  a  dry  place  in  papers  ;  before  you  use  them  put  them  in  warm 
water. 


791.— FRBXCH  BEANS  A  LA  MaItBE  D*H6tEL. 

Pkepare  your  beans  as  for  boiling ;  put  into  a  stewpan  a  piece  of 
batter,  shred  parsley,  and  green  onions,  when  the  butter  is  melted 
add  the  French  beans,  turn  them  a  few  times  over  the  fire,  shake 
in  some  flour,  and  moisten  with  a  little  good  stock  well  seasoned ; 
boil  till  the  sauce  is  consumed,  then  put  the  in  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
beat  np  with  some  milk,  and  add  a  little  vinegar.  Cullis  of  real 
gravy  may  be  used  instead  of  the  eggs. 


792. FRENCn  BEANS  A  LA  BRETONNE. 

Cut  an  onion  or  two  into  dice  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
some  butter  over  a  stove ;  when  they  begin  to  brown,  add  some 
espagnole  or  a  pinch  of  flour ;  as  soon  as  the  onions  and  flour  are 
aofficiently  done  moisten  them  with  a  spoonful  of  good  gravy, 
aeason  with  salt  and  whole  pepper;  reduce  this  sauce,  and  having 
boiled  the  beans  put  them  into  it  and  simmer  all  together. 


793. — FBENCH  BEANS  A  LA  FBAN9AISE. 

dean,  cut,  string,  and  boil  them,  drain  them  well,  and  then  place 
them  in  a  stewpan  without  water,  hold  them  over  the  fire  until  the 
whole  of  the  moisture  has  evaporated  and  they  are  quite  hot.  Cut 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  into  small  pieces,  put  it  to  the 
beans,  and  when  it  is  melted  pepper  it  with  white  pepper,  sprinkle 
a  little  salt,  squeeze  half  a  lemon  over  it,  toss  over  the  fire  and 
serve  hot. 


794. FBENCH  BEANS  EN  ALLUMETTE. 

Wash,  pick,  and  blanch  your  beans,  throw  them  into  cold  water, 
cat  off  the  ends,  and  finish  boiling  them  with  a  little  brandy,  drain 
them,  dip  in  butter,  and  fry  them  of  a  light  colour,  whilst  hot 
ipread  sugar  over  and  glaze  them. 


795. — FRENCH   BEANS   FBICASESD. 

Boil  almost  tender,  strain  and  put  into  a  stewpan  with  a  tea- 
capful  of  white  gravy ;  add  two  spoonfuls  of  cream,  thicken  with  a 
little  butter  and  flour,  let  it  simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  season,  and 


218  TB6ETABLBS,  SALADS,  STC. 

796. — VBSXCH  BXAN8 — tAIAD. 

Boil  them  simplj,  drain  them,  and  let  them  cool;  pnt  them  in  a 
dish,  and  garnish  with  parsley,  pimpernel,  and  tarragon,  dress  like 
other  salads. 


797. — ^BSAKS,  OAKDEK— FKSSERVSD. 

Shell  the  beans  when  they  are  about  half  an  inch  long,  and 
blanch  them,  put  them  into  bottles,  with  a  bunch  of  saTory  in 
each,  close  the  bottles  hermetically,  and  proceed  according  to  the 
directions  for  preserving  asparagus ;  leave  them  in  the  bain  marie 
one  hour  and  a  half.  If  you  wish  to  preserve  them  in  their  coats, 
take  care  to  put  them  into  bottles  the  moment  they  are  shelled,  as 
they  change  colour  so  quickly;  an  hour  in  the  bain  marie  is  enough. 


798w — BT£WED  BEAKS. 

Boil  them  in  water  in  which  a  limip  of  butter  has  been  placed, 
preserve  them  as  white  as  you  can,  chop  a  few  sweet  herbs  with 
some  parsley  very  fine,  stew  them  in  a  pint  of  the  water  in  whidi 
the  leaves  have  been  boiled,  to  which  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream 
has  been  added;  stew  until  quite  tender,  then  add  the  beans,  stew 
five  minutes,  thicken  with  butter  and  fiour. 


799. — ^BBANS,  PUR^E  OF,  WHITB. 

Chop  some  onions  and  fry  them  lightly  in  a  little  butter  and 
fiour,  and  moisten  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  broth ;  let  the  onions  be 
done ;  boil  the  beans  in  this  for  half  an  hour,  season  them  well,  use 
brown  pepper,  and  strain  them  through  a  tammy ;  reduce  the  puree 
over  a  brisk  fire,  take  off  the  white  scum,  and  before  you  serve 
refine  it  with  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  and  two  spoonfuls  of  thick  cream, 
garnish  it  with  fried  crust  of  bread,  this  may  be  made  brown  by 
frying  the  onions  brown. 

800. BEANS  BOILED. 

Boil  in  salt  and  water,  with  a  bunch  of  savory,  drain^  and  then 
put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  five  spoonfuls  of  sauce  toumee 
reduced,  the  yolk  of  three  eggs  and  a  little  salt,  add  a  piece  of  fresh 
butter,  and  stir  it  constantly  till  of  a  proper  thickness. 

801. — WINDSOR  BEANS. 

They  should  be  young  and  shelled  only  just  previous  to  cooking, 
salt  the  water  in  which  they  are  to  be  cooked,  and  when  boiling 
throw  in  the  beans ;  when  tender  drain  in  a  cullender,  send  to  teble 
with  plain  melted  butter,  or  parsley  and  butter.  They  usually 
accompany  bacon  or  boiled  pork  to  table. 


802.— HARICOT  DEANS. 

Two  handfuls  of  the  white  beans,  lay  in  boiling  water  until  the 


yXGETABI^BSy  BALADB,,  ETC.  219 

skins  come  off,  put  them  in  cold  water  as*  you  do  them,  then  take 
them  outy  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  some  good  stock,  boil 
diem  until  nearlj  to  a  glaze,  then  add  some  good  brown  sauce  to 
them,  shaking  them  about;  season  with  sugar,  i^t,  and  pepper. 


803. HARICOT   ROOTS. 

Pare  three  turnips,  and  scrape  two  or  three  good  coloured  carrots, 
tbout  two  dozen  button  onions,  a  head  of  celerj;  cut  out  with  a 
iQOop  cutter  sufficient  carrots  and  turnips  to  pair  the  button  onions ; 
ky  them  for  a  few  minutes  in  boiling  water,  keep  all  your  roots 
in  water  until  all  is  done,  cut  jour  celery  to  correspond  as  to  size 
with  the  other  roots ;  when  done  blanch  them,  then  strain  them  off, 
lefum  them  into  the  stewpan,  and  put  to  them  some  good  brown 
stock,  boil  them  until  reduced  to  nearly  a  glaze,  then  add  some 
tuown  sauce  to  them,  sugar,  pepper,  ana  salt>  do  not  stir  with  a 
^oan  to  smash  the  roots  which  should  be  quite  perfect 


804. — ^WHITE  HARICOT  BEANS. 

Take  a  pint,  soak  them  in  water  for  three  or  four  hours,  then  boil 
them  slowly  until  they  are  tender,  strain  them  dry,  pour  to  them  a 
pint  of  white  sauce,  melt  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  with  a  shalot 
Tcry  finely  minced,  add  them  to  the  haricots,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  send  it  to  table  hot.     It  should  accompany  roast  mutton. 

805. HARICOTS  A   LA   FRAN^AISE. 

■  Put  the  haricots  into  a  saucepan  with  cold  water,  add  a  small 
jnece  of  butter,  let  them  heat  gradually;  if  they  approach  boiling 
stay  them  with  cold  water.  When  the  beans  are  soft  drain  them, 
lioil  a  few  onions  and  put  them  with  the  beans  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  bit  of  butter  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  season  with 
lalt  and  pepper,  toss  them  and  serve.  If  they  seem  dry  add  a  little 
Vatter  to  them. 


806. — WHITE   HARICOT  BEANS.— SPANISH   RECEIPT. 

Take  a  pint  of  beans,  pour  a  quart  of  boiling  water  upon  them 
and  let  them  remain  in  soak  until  the  next  day;  cut  a  lettuce  in  four 
pieces  and  put  it  with  the  beans  in  some  fresh  hot  water,  throw  in 
a  small  faggot  of  parsley,  and  a  slice  of  ham,  boil  them  imtil  the 
whole  are  tender. 

Chop  up  some  onions,  with  a  clove  of  garlic,  fry  them  and  then 
put  them  into  a  stewpan,  put  the  beans  to  them,  with  a  well  beaten 
egg  and  some  spice,  heat  them  and  send  them  to  table. 

807* — ^BEBT  ROOTS,  SECOND  COURSE  DISH. 

Cat  in  equal  sized  slices  some  beet  root,  boiled  or  baked,  of  a  good 
eokmr,  make  it  hot  between  two  plates  in  the  oven,  dish  it  as  you 
would  cutlets,  round ;  make  a  good  piquant  sauce,  boil  some  button 
qnions  white  and  tender,  throw  them  in  the  middle  of  the  dish  with 
IIm  moot* 


220  VEGETABLES,   SALADS,   ETC. 

808.— BBOCCOLI. 

Peel  the  tblck  skin  of  the  stalks  and  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
with  salt  in  the  water.  The  small  shoots  will  only  require  half  the 
time ;  they  should  be  tied  in  bunches. 

Serve  with  toast  and  melted  butter. 


809. — BROCCOLI   AND  BUTTEBED  EGGS. 

Keep  a  handsome  bunch  for  the  middle,  and  have  eight  pieces  to 
go  round ;  toast  a  piece  of  bread  to  fit  the  inner  part  of  the  dish 
or  plate :  boil  the  broccoli.  In  the  meantime  have  ready  six  (or 
more)  eggs  beaten,  put  for  six  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  butter 
into  a  saucepan,  with  a  little  salt,  stir  it  over  the  fire,  and  as  it 
becomes  warm  add  the  eggs,  and  shako  the  saucepan  till  the  mix- 
ture is  thick  enough ;  pour  it  on  the  hot  toast,  and  lay  the  broccoli 
as  before  directed.  This  receipt  is  a  very  good  one,  it  is  occasionally 
varied,  but  without  improvement,  the  dish  is  however  nearly  obso- 
lete. 


810.^-CABBAGES. 

A  fiill  grown  or  summer  cabbage  should  be  well  and  thoroughly 
washed ;  before  cooking  them  cut  into  four  pieces,  boil  rapidly  and 
with  the  saucepan  uncovered  half  an  hour;  a  young  cabbage  will 
take  only  twenty  minutes,  it  must  be  boiled  very  rapidly,  a  handful 
of  salt  should  be  thrown  in  the  water  before  the  cabbage  is  put  in. 

811. ^-CABBAGE— TO   BOIL. 

Nick  your  cabbage  in  quarters  at  the  stalk,  wash  it  thoroughly 
clean,  put  it  into  boiling  spring  water  with  a  handful  of  salt  and  a 
small  piece  of  soda,  boil  it  fast,  when  done  strain  it  in  a  cullender, 
press  it  gently,  cut  it  in  halves  and  serve.  Savoys  and  greens  may 
be  boiled  in  the  same  manner,  they  should  always  be  boiled  by 
themselves.  Should  the  cabbage  be  left,  it  may  be  chopped,  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  lump  of  butter,  and  pepper,  and  salt,  and 
made  hot  and  sent  to  table. 


812. CABBAGE — TO  KEEP. 

Small,  close  cabbages  laid  on  a  stone  floor,  before  the  frost  sets 
in,  wiU  blanch  and  be  very  fine,  after  many  weeks'  keeping. 


813.^-CABBAGE   BOILED   AND   STEWED. 

Cut  a  cabbage  into  four,  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour  with  a  piece 
of  streaked  bacon  cut  into  small  pieces,  leaving  the  rind  on,  change 
it  into  cold  water,  squeeze  it  well,  tie  each  quarter  to  preserve  its 
shape,  stew  it  with  stock,  salt,  pepper,  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  green 
onions,  cloves,  a  little  nutmeg,  two  or  three  roots,  and  the  meat  you 
purpose  serving  with  it.  When  both  meat  and  cabbage  are  done, 
wipe  the  grease  off  the  latter,  dish  it  for  table  the  streaked  bacon 
on  it,  and  serve  with  a  sauce  of  good  cullis  seasoned  to  palate.  The 
parts  of  meat  cabbage  is  best  boiled  with  are  real  tendons,  breast 


TSQETABLES,  SALADS,  STa  221 

of  beefy  a  bit  of  round  of  beef,  pork  chitterlings,  a  shoulder  of 
mutton  boned  and  tied  into  a  round  or  a  trussed  capon.  Whatever 
meat  the  cabbage  is  stewed  with  should  be  previously  to  serving 
boiled  a  few  minutes  in  water  to  take  off  the  scum. 


814.^<;abbagb  bago^t. 

Take  the  half  of  a  middle  sized  cabbage,  boil  it  for  half  an  hour, 
and  then  change  it  in  cold  water,  squeeze  it  well  and  take  out  the 
heart,  cut  the  cabbage  into  small  pieces  and  put  it  in  a  stewpan, 
with  a  slice  of  good  butter,  turn  it  a  few  times  over  the  fire,  and 
shake  in  some  flour,  put  in  sufficient  gravy  to  give  colour  to  the 
lagout,  let  it  boil  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  cabbage  is  done  and 
reduced  to  a  thick  sauce ;  season  it  with  salt,  a  little  coarse  pepper, 
a  little  grated  nutmeg,  serve  under  any  meat  you  think  proper. 

815. — CABBAGE  AND  BACON. 

Blanch  a  cabbage  cut  in  quarters,  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with 
a  piece  of  streaked  bacon,  season  it,  moisten  with  water,  and  give 
it  a  boU,  then  let  it  stew  over  a  moderate  fire ;  when  done;  (kess 
the  cabbage  on  a  dish  with  the  bacon  over  it ;  reduce  the  liquor 
and  add  to  it  a  little  butter  worked  with  some  fiour,  and  then  serve 
over  the  bacon  and  cabbage. 


816.— CABBAGE   RED. 

They  are  mostly  stewed  to  eat  with  ham,  bacon,  or  smoked 
sausages,  though  sometimes  without  any  meat,  they  are  very  strong 
eating,  and  should  be  first  scalded,  then  stewed  with  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  and  cloves,  and  vinegar  added  to  it  just  before  serving ;  they 
are  considered  wholesome  in  veal  broth  for  consumptions,  but  are 
most  proper  for  pickling. 

817. — TO  STEW  BED  CABBAGE. 

Trim  and  quarter  a  young  cabbage,  cut  out  the  stalk,  cut  it  end 
ways  into  fine  pieces,  put  into  a  stewpan  two  large  onions,  one  stuck 
with  cloves,  a  large  piece  of  fat  and  lean  ham,  a  tea-cup  of  vinegar, 
cover  it  over  and  stew  over  a  slow  fire  for  several  hours,  season  it 
with  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  little  good  stock  or  brovm  sauce,  it  will 
go  hot  under  what  it  is  required  for. 


818. — CABBAGE  SALAD. 

Boil  a  savoy  cabbage  in  water,  drain  and  dress  it  as  you  would  a 
salad,  with  salt,  pepper,  some  Provence  oil  and  vinegar,  adding  one 
or  two  anchovies  and  a  few  capers,  it  may  be  served  either  hot  or 
eold. 


119. — CABBAGES  FOR  GAME. 


Cat  and  quarter  two  cabbages,  boil  them  until  half  done,  lay  them 
in  cold  water,  cut  out  the  stalk,  squeeze  each  quarter  with  your 
hands  to  a  long  bundle,  using  them  to  be  stewed  with  your  birds. 


222  VSaETABLBS,  SJOjAXM^  XTG.' 


820.— CAJU>00N8. 

Are  dressed  in  various  ways. 

Boil  them  until  soft  in  salt  and  water,  dry  them,  butter  them,  and 
fry  a  good  colour,  serve  with  melted  butter. 

They  are  boiled  and  worked  up  in  a  fricasee  sauce,  or  they  may 
be  tied  up  and  dressed  as  asparagus. 

To  stew  them  cut  them  in  pieces,  and  stew  in  white  or  brown 
gravy,  season  with  ketchup,  salt,  and  cayenne,  thicken  with  a  small 
lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 


821.— CAULIFLOWERS — ^TO  BOIL. 

Trim  them  neatly,  let  them  soak  at  least  an  hour  in  cold  water, 
put  them  into  boiling  water  in  which  a  handful  of  salt  has  been 
thrown,  let  it  boil,  occasionally  skimming  the  water.  If  the  cauli- 
flower is  small  it  will  only  take  fifteen  minutes,  if  large  twenty 
minutes  may  be  allowed ;  do  not  let  them  remain  after  they  fu:e 
done,  but  take  them  up  and  serve  immediately. 

If  the  cauliflowers  are  to  be  preserved  white,  they  ought  to  be 
boiled  in  milk  and  water  or  a  little  flour  should  be  put  into  the 
water  in  which  they  are  boiled,  send  melted  butter  to  table  with 
them. 


822. — CAULIFLOWER   AU    FROMAGE. 

When  you  have  boiled  the  cauliflower  tender,  drain  it,  and  cut 
the  stalks  off  flat,  that  when  sent  to  table  the  heads  may  stand  up, 
lay  it  in  a  stewpan  with  white  sauce,  stew  eight  minutes,  dish  it 
with  the  white  sauce,  grate  Parmesan  over  it,  brown  with  a 
salamander,  and  serve. 


823. CAULIFLOWER   A   LA   FBAlCgAISE. 

Prepare  exactly  as  the  last  receipt  up  to  the  grating  of  the 
Parmesan  cheese,  that  must  not  be  used,  but  the  caiUiflowers  must 
be  suffused  with  sauce  thickly  over  them  to  get  cool,  when  quite 
cold  dip  them  into  a  blanc  and  fry  them  a  good  colour,  send  them 
to  table  very  hot. 

824. — CHARTREUSE  OF  CAULIFLOWER. 

Some  that  was  boiled  the  day  before ;  cut  off"  the  stalk,  and 
press  the  cauliflower  tight  in  a  mould ;  if  not  sufficient  to  fill  it,  add 
mashed  potatoes ;  put  plain  bechamel  sauce  round  it. 

825. — STBWED  CUCUMBERS. 

Take  two  or  three  straight  cucumbers,  cut  off  one  end,  then  take 
out  the  seeds,  lay  them  in  vinegar  and  water,  and  pepper  and  salt, 
have  some  good  farce  and  fill  each  cucumber  with  it,  dry  your 
cucumbers  well  out  of  the  vinegar  first,  then  dry  them  in  a  clean 
rubber,  then  fry  them  if  for  brown,  if  for  white  not,  take  them  out 
of  tlie  butter  and  put  them  to  stew  in  some  good  stock,  one  large 
onion,  a  faggot  of  herbs,  a  slice  of  lean  ham,  until  tender,  thicken  the 


Vegetables,  salads,  sra        223 

liquor  and  pass  through  a  tammj;  season  with  a  little  drop  of  yinegar, 
knum  juice,  sugar  and  salt,  and  white  pepper,  glaze  the  cucumbeis 
ierend  times,  to  be  a  bright  brown. 

826 STEWED  CELERY. 

Ten  or  twelve  heads  of  large  celery,  using  the  root  and  about  three 
inches  long,  lay  them  in  salt  and  water  a  few  minat^^s,  take  them  out 
iad  place  them  in  a  ste^vpan,  with  an  onion,  and  a  ^ggot  of  herbs, 
oorer  them  with  second  stock,  stew  them  gently  until  quite  tender, 
reduce  tlie  stock,  thicken  it  and  pass  it  through  a  tammy;  season  with 
iQffar,  salt,  and  cayenne  pepper.  Dish  them  up  as  you  do  cutlets, 
eiuer  glaze  them  or  pour  the  sauce  over  them. 

827. — ENDIVES. 

.  IVim  some  laige  white  endives,  lay  them  a  little  time  in  salt  and 
vafter,  then  blanch  them  for  a  few  minutes ;  take  them  up,  press  out 
&•  water,  cot  each  endive  in  hal^  if  too  large,  tie  each  separately  up, 
{bee  them  in  a  stewpan  with  ham  and  an  onion,  and  a  little  good 
Itock,  Btew  until  tender;  take  them  up,  take  off  each  sprig,  keep  them 
Ae  i^pe,  press  them  a  little  and  glaze  them,  use  them  with  your 
cadets  alternately,  or  anything  else  you  require  shred  endive  for. 

828i — ENDIVES. 

Cut  four  or  five  endives  according  to  the  size  into  shreds,  put  it  into 
A  stewpan  with  one  <mion,  a  piece  of  ham,  and  a  piece  of  butter, 
Oftver  it  over,  put  it  on  a  slow  fire  to  roast  over,  when  the  endive  is 
tender  take  out  the  onion  and  ham,  and  add  to  it  some  brown  sauce, 
with  sugar,  salt,  and  pepper,  boil  it  well  in  the  sauce. 


829. ENDIVE   AU   JUS. 

Split  some  endive  in  half,  blanch  and  drain  them,  season  each 
^ith  some  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  salt,  and  tie  the  endive  together  and 
put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  some  bacon  sliced  over  them ;  in  the 
^«une  way  put  in  some  veal  and  beef  sliced,  two  onions,  two  carrots, 
txro  cloves  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  moisten  the  whole  with  the 
skimmings  of  consomme,  stew  the  endive  for  three  hours,  then 
^nin  and  press  them  in  a  cloth,  trim  and  dish  them  up  for  table. 

830. —  GKEEN    FEAS. 

A  delicious  vegetable,  a  grateful  accessory  to  many  dishes  of  a 
*^ore  substantial  nature.  Green  peas  should  be  sent  to  table  (jreen^ 
^0  dish  looks  less  tempting  than  peas  if  they  wear  an  autumnal 
••pect.  Peas  should  also  be  young,  and  as  short  a  time  as  possible 
Sooidd  he  suffered  to  elapse  between  the  periods  of  shelling  and 
wiling.  If  it  is  a  matter  of  consequence  to  send  them  to  table  in 
jpctfection,  these  rules  must  be  strictly  observed.  They  should  be 
U  near  of  a  size  as  a  discriminating  eye  can  arrange  them  ;  they 
flhould  then  be  put  in  a  cullender,  and  some  cold  water  siiOercd  to 
nm  through  them  in  order  to  wash  them  ;  then  having  the  water 
in  which  Uiey  are  to  be  boiled  slightly  salted,  and  boiling  rapidly. 


224  YEQETABIJSS,  SALADS,  ETC. 

pour  in  the  peas ;  keep  the  saucepan  uncorered,  and  keep  them 
Doiling  swiftly  until  tender ;  they  will  take  about  twenty  minutes, 
barely  so  long,  unless  older  than  they  should  be ;  drain  completely, 
pour  them  into  the  tureen  in  which  they  are  to  be  served,  and  in 
the  centre  put  a  slice  of  butter,  and  when  it  has  melted  stir  round 
the  peas  gently,  adding  pepper  and  salt;  serve  as  quickly  and  as  hot 
as  possible. 

It  is  commonly  a  practice  to  boil  mint  with  the  peas,  this,  how- 
ever,  is  very  repugnant  to  many  palates,  and  as  it  may  easily  be 
added  if  agreeable  to  the  palate,  it  should  not  be  dressed  with  the 
peas  although  it  may  accompany  them  to  table  for  those  who  may 
desire  the  flavour. 


'  831. — STEWED  PEAS. 

Take  a  quart  of  young  fresh  shelled  peas  and  lay  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  or  three  if  they  should  be  old, 
an  onion  cut  in  four,  a  very  small  sprig  of  mint,  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  gravy,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  white  sugar ;  stew  gently  tmtil 
they  are  tender,  take  out  the  mint  and  the  onion,  thicken  with  floor 
and  butter,  and  serve  very  hot,  a  lettuce  may  be  chopped  up  and 
stewed  with  them. 


832.— HSTBWED  PEAS. 

Cut  in  small  pieces  one  or  two  Cos  lettuces,  a  faggot  of  mint,  a 
ffuart  of  peas,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  squeezed  well  into 
tne  peas,  put  in  one  large  onion,  cover  them  over,  and  put  them 
over  a  slow  fire  to  stew  for  several  hours  according  to  your  fire, 
looking  at  them  often  to  see  they  do  not  bum ;  have  ready  a  piece 
of  butter  worked  up  with  flour,  and  when  the  peas  are  nearly  tender 
put  it  in,  and  shake  it  about,  take  out  the  onion  and  raggot  of 
mint,  add  a  gill  of  cream,  a  little  sugar,  pepper  and  salt;  they  should 
be  a  little  sweet. 


833. — POIS  A   LA   FRAN9AI8E. 

Into  a  pan  of  cold  clear  spring*^ water  put  the  eighth  of  a  pound 
of  fresh  butter,  put  in  the  peas  newly  shelled,  if  more  than  a  quart 
add  more  butter,  work  the  butter  and  peas  together  until  the 
former  adheres  to  the  latter,  remove  them  from  the  basin,  and 
having  well  drained  them  lay  them  in  a  stewpan  and  stew  them  in 
the  butter  adhering  to  them  only,  they  require  no  other  moisture, 
let  them  stew  gently,  occasionally  moving  them  about,  in  rather 
better  than  a  quarter  of  an  hour  cover  them  with  a  thin  gravy,  or 
boiling  water,  but  only  just  cover  them,  add  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and 
boil  for  half  an  hour,  moisten  a  little  white  sugar  and  add  it  to  the 
peas  thickening  with  a  little  butter  and  flour,  shake  the  peas  over 
the  fire  for  a  minute  or  two,  turn  them  into  a  very  hot  dish,  and 
forming  into  a  pyramid  send  them  to  table. 

They  require  no  accompanying  sauce. 


YEOETABLESy   SALADS,  ETC.  225 

834.-— PBiiS  8TSWSD  iir  CBSAM. 

Pat  two  or  three  pints  of  young  green  peas  into  a  saucepan  of 
^ywli^*g  water,  when  they  are  nearly  done  and  tender  drain  them  in 
a  cnllender  quite  dry;  melt  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  clean  stewpan 
thicken  it  evenly  with  a  little  flour,  shake  it  over  the  fire,  but  on  no 
mecount  let  it  brown,  mix  smoothly  with  it  the  fourth  of  a  pint  of 
cream,  add  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  white  sugar,  bring  it  to  a  boil, 
pour  in  the  peas,  and  keeping  them  moving  until  they  are  well 
Deated,  which  will  hardly  occupy  two  minutes,  send  them  to  table 
immediately. 

835. HOW  TO  COOK  POTATOES. — ^10  BOIL  POTATOES. 

In  Ireland  potatoes  are  boiled  in  perfection ;  the  humblest  pea- 
sant places  his  potatoes  on  his  table  better  cooked  than  coidd  half 
the  cooks  in  London  trying  their  best.  Potatoes  should  always  be 
boiled  in  their  '^jackets  ;'*  peeling  a  potato  before  boiling  is  offering 
a  premium  for  water  to  run  through  it,  and  go  to  table  waxy  and 
impalatable ;  they  shoidd  be  thoroughly  washed  and  put  into  cold 
water.  In  Ireland  they  always  nick  a  piece  of  the  skin  off  before 
they  place  them  in  the  pot;  the  water  is  gradually  heated,  but 
never  allowed  to  boil ;  cold  water  should  be  added  as  soon  as  the 
water  commences  boiling,  and  it  should  thus  be  checked  until  the 
potatoes  are  done,  the  skins  will  not  then  be  broken  or  cracked  until 
the  potato  is  thoroughly  done ;  pour  the  water  off  completely,  and 
let  the  skins  be  thoroughly  dr}'  before  peeling. 

836. — TO  BOIL  NEW  POTATOES. 

The  sooner  the  new  potatoes  are  cooked  after  being  dug,  the 
better  they  will  eat ;  clear  off  all  the  loose  skins  with  a  coarse 
towel  and  cold  water ;  when  they  arc  thoroughly  clean  put  them 
into  scalding  water,  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  twenty  minutes  will  be 
found  sufficient  to  cook  them ;  strain  off  the  water  dry,  sprinkle  a 
Ktde  salt  over  the  potatoes  and  send  them  to  table.  If  very  young, 
melted  butter  should  accompany  them. 

837. POTATOES  A  LA  MaItRE  d'h6TEL. 

Boil  the  potatoes  ;  before  they  are  quite  done  take  them  up, 
|ilace  tbem  aside,  and  let  them  get  cold ;  cut  them  in  slices  of  a 
BU)deratc  thickness ;  place  in  a  stewpan  a  lump  of  fresh  butter,  and 
t  tea-spoonful  of  flour ;  let  the  butter  boil,  and  add  a  tea-cupful  of 
Ittoth ;  let  it  boil  and  add  the  potatoes,  which  you  have  covered 
^th  parsley,  chopped  fine,  and  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  stew 
them  five  minutes,  remove  them  from  the  fire ;  beat  up  the  yolk  of 
<toe  egg  with  a  table-spoonful  of  cold  water  and  a  little  lemon  juice. 
Hie  sauce  will  set,  then  dish  up  the  potatoes  and  serve. 

838. ROASTED  POTATOES. 

Clean  thoroughly ;  nick  a  small  piece  out  of  the  skin,  and  roast 
in  the  oven  of  the  range ;  a  little  butter  is  sometimes  rubbed  over 
the  tkin  to  make  them  crisp. 

Q 


S26  VEGETABLES,   SALADS,  £TC. 

839.— BBOUSD  POTATOES. 

Eatlier  more  than  parboil  the  potatoes ;  pare  —  tlie  ridn,  iora 
them  and  lay  them  upon  a  gridiron  OTer  a  dear  fore ;  send  tiM»n  ti 
table  with  cold  fresh  butter. 


840. — 7BIED  POTATOES. 

Remove  the  peel  from  an  imcooked  potato.  After  it  has  be^ 
dioroughly  washed  cut  the  potato  into  thin  slices,  and  lay  them  ii 
B  pan  with  some  fresh  butter,  fry  gently  a  clear  brown,  lay  thctt 
one  upon  the  other  in  a  small  dish,  and  send  to  table  as  an  an/^ 
mets. 


841. ^POTATOES  k  I.A  CBEXE. 

Boil  them,  not  so  much  that  they  will  break  easily ;  cut  the* 
into  slices  of  about  half  an  inch,  season  them  with  salt  and  white 
pepper ;  place  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  third  part  of  a  pint  of 
D^hamel,  toss  them  gently  until  enough. 


842. — POTATOES  GLAZED. 

Boil  well ;  skin  them ;  choose  the  most  floury,  roll  them  in  yolk 
of  egg,  and  place  them  before  the  fire  to  brown. 


843. — POTATO  BISSOLES. 

Boil  the  potatoes  floury ;  mash  them,  seasoning  with  salt  and  a 
little  cayenne ;  mince  parsley  very  finely  and  work  up  with  the 
potatoes,  adding  eschalot  also  chopped  small;  bind  with  yolk  of 
egg,  roll  into  balls  and  fry  with  fresh  butter  over  a  clear  fire.  Meat 
shred  finely,  bacon  or  ham  may  be  added. 


844. POTATO  SOUFFLE. 

Take  any  number  of  large  potatoes,  the  less  eyes  and  the  firmer 
the  skin  the  better.     Clean  them  thoroughly  and  then  bake  them; 
after  which  cut  out  a  round  piece,  not  quite  so  large  as  a  half- 
crown,  out  of  each  potato,  and  remove  as  much  of  the  inside  as  can 
be  obtained  without  damage  to  the  skin.     Mash  the  potatoes  with 
cream,  adding  a  little  butter,  sprinkle  over  a  little  salt,  and  put  to 
it  half  a  pint  of  good  milk;  give  it  all  a  boil;  take  the  white  of 
three  eggs,  whip  them  until  they  froth,  add  them  to  the  potatoes 
while  they  boil,  and  then  make  the  potatoes  into  a  paste ;  return 
them  through  the  orifice  in  the  skin  of  the  potato  untU  each  skin  is 
full ;  bake  them,  and  servo. 


845. — POTATO  rag6ut. 

Mash  floury  potatoes,  make  them  into  balls  with  yolk  of  egg, 
flour,  and  fry  them ;  drain  oflf  all  grease,  cover  them  with  brown 
sauce  ^nd  serre. 


▼S6BTABLE8,  SALADS,  ETC.  227 


846. — A  PXTB^E,  OB,  BOCTP  OF  POTATOES. 

Mash  Ihem ;  after  having  boiled  them  quite  hot,  mix  them  with 
•ome  fine  "white  veal  gravy,  thicken  with  cream ;  it  should,  when 
doney  be  of  the  consistency  of  apple  sauce. 


847. TO  MASH  POTATOES. 

Boil  the  potatoes  as  above ;  peel  them,  remove  all  the  eyes  and 
hmpe ;  beat  them  up  with  butter  and  salt  in  a  wooden  mortar  until 
they  are  quite  smooth ;  force  them  into  a  mould  which  has  been 
previously  floured,  turn  into  a  tureen  which  the  flour  will  enable 
you  easily  to  do ;  brown  them  before  the  Are,  turning  gently  so  as 
not  to  injure  the  shape,  and  when  a  nice  colour  send  to  table.  They 
ire  sometimes  coated  with  white  of  cQg,  but  they  may  be  cooked 
without 


848. — POTATO  BALLS. 

Mash  some  floury  potatoes  quite  smooth,  season  with  pepper  and 
talt|  add  fresh  butter  imtil  sufficiently  moist,  but  not  too  much  so ; 
make  into  balls,  roll  them  in  vermicelli  crumbled,  or  breadcrumbs, 
in  the  latter  case  they  may  be  brushed  with  the  yolk  of  egg,  fry 
them  a  nice  brown.  Serve  them  on  a  napkin,  or  round  a  dish  of 
mashed  potatoes  which  has  not  been  moulded. 


849. SEAKALE 

leqfoiies  to  be  very  well  done,  there  is  little  occasion  to  fear  doing 
it  too  much ;  tie  in  bundles  after  washing  and  trimming,  boil  it  in 
equal  parts  of  milk  and  water,  and  serve  it  with  melted  butter. 

It  may  be  laid  on  toast  or  not,  according  to  taste. 

.After  being  well  boiled  it  must  be  thoroughly  drained  before 
laying  upon  the  toast ;  Ave -and- twenty  minutes  will  be  found  suffi- 
cient to  boil  it 


850. — SBAKALE. 

BoQ  jonr  seakale  in  milk  and  water,  strain  them  ofi^;  when  cold 
cot  them  in  lengths  of  three  inches,  place  them  endways  all  round 
a  ^ain  mould  until  quite  full  and  tight ;  if  not  sufficient  seakale  fill 
flie  mould  with  prepared  spinach  or  mashed  potatoes,  or  broccoli,  or 
iprouts.  Cover  it  over  and  put  the  mould  in  the  oven  to  get  thoroughly 
lioty  tnm  the  mould  down  to  drain  out  the  water,  then  turn  it  mto 
jour  dish  it  is  to  go  upon,  pour  some  good  sauce  over  it  and  in  the 


851. — SEAKALE  STEWED. 

Trim  and  wash  well,  tie  in  bundles,  put  it  in  boiling  water  into 
which  a  handful  of  salt  has  been  thrown  ;  after  having  been  boiled 
twelve  minutes  lay  it  to  drain,  and  when  free  from  the  water  put  it 
in  a  stewpan,  cover  it  with  a  rich  gravy,  stew  until  quite  tender.  It 
ihould  be  sent  to  table  in  the  graw. 

Q  2 


228  Y£G£TABL£8^   SALADS,   ETC. 

852. — TO  DS£8S  SPANISH  ONIOKS. 

Take  off  two  skins,  be  particular  in  not  catting  the  stalk  on  the 
root  of  the  onion  too  much  away,  if  you  do  when  done  it  will  dzw 
to  pieces.  Take  four  large  onions  put  them  in  a  stewpan  sufficientlj 
large,  so  that  they  may  not  touch  each  other,  put  in  a  small  piece  oif 
lean  York  ham  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  butter,  cover  them 
close,  put  them  on  a  slow  stove  or  oven,  keeping  them  turned  care- 
fully imtil  all  sides  are  properly  done,  they  will  take  about  two 
hours,  then  take  them  up  and  glaze  them,  thicken  the  gravy,  and 
season  with  pepper  and  salt 

853. — SALSIFY  AND  8C0SZANEBA 

Blanch  several  heads  until  the  skin  will  peel  0%  when  you  hare 
done  that,  cut  them  all  in  equal  lengths,  if  to  be  done  in  battel; 
dry  them  in  bread  crumbs,  if  for  sauce  make  them  hot  in  a  little  veal 
stock,  dish  them,  and  pour  a  good  white  or  brown  sauce  over  them. 

854. — SPINACH. 

The  leaves  of  the  spinach  should  be  picked  from  the  stems ;  it 
should  then  be  well  washed  in  clean  cold  water  until  the  whole  of 
the  dirt  and  grit  is  removed;  three  or  four  waters  should  be 
employed,  it  will  not  otherwise  be  got  thoroughly  clean ;  lei  it 
drain  in  a  sieve  or  shake  it  in  a  cloth  to  remove  the  clinging  water. 
Place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  boiling  water,  there  should  be  very  litde, 
it  will  be  done  in  ten  minutes;  squeeze  out  the  water,  chop  it  finely, 
seasoning  well  with  pepper  and  salt;  pour  three  or  four  large 
spoonfuls  of  gravy  over  it,  place  it  before  the  fire  until  much  of  the 
moisture  has  evaporated,  and  then  serve. 


855.— SPINACH  A  l'anolaise. 

Pick  and  clean  the  spinach;  put  it  into  a  saucepan  without 
water,  keep  it  pressed  down  until  tender;  squeeze  out  the  moisture, 
return  it  to  the  saucepan,  from  which  all  the  liquid  should  be 
removed ;  pour  on  it,  as  it  heats,  four  large  spoonfuls  of  rich  gravy, 
let  all  the  gravy  be  absorbed,  keep  it  well  stirred;  flavour  with 
pepper  and  salt ;  when  it  is  dry,  press  it  into  a  mould ;  turn  it  out, 
and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

856. — ^ANOTHER  WAY. 

Pick  and  wash  it  thoroughly ;  put  it  into  a  saucepan,  sprinkle  it 
with  about  a  spoonful  of  salt ;  press  it  down  as  it  heats  until  it  is 
tender,  take  it  out,  press  all  the  moisture  out,  chop  it  finely,  put  it 
in  a  dry  saucepan  with  a  lump  of  butter,  stir  it  well ;  when  the 
butter  is  absorbed  lay  it  in  a  hot  dish,  spread  it  over  and  mark  it 
into  dice,  lay  upon  it  two  or  three  nicely  poached  eggs,  and  serve 
hot. 


857- SPINACH  A  LA  FIIAN9AISE. 

Cut  and  wash  carefully,  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little 


VEGETABLES^   SALADS,   ETC.  229 

;  when  it  is  tender  strain  off  the  liquor,  and  throw  the 
h  into  dear  cold  spring  water,  take  small  portions  of  it,  and 
I  pressed  the  water  from  it,  chop  it  finely.  Lay  in  a  stewpan 
e  of  hutter  and  melt  it,  add  the  spinach  to  it,  keeping  it 
i  until  the  hutter  is  absorbed  by  the  vegetable ;  dredge  in  a^ 
!ul  of  flour,  until  it  is  commingled  with  the  spinach^  add  a. 
T  of  a  pint  of  rich  veal  gravy,  let  it  boil  quickly,  keep  it 
I ;  it  may  be  served  up  plainly  or  with  sippets  round  it.  The 
I  sometimes  raised  by  pouring  boiling  cream  sweetened  with 
sugar  to  the  spinach  instead  of  the  veal  gravy. 


858. — SPINACH  RAOotyr. 

dng  well  picked  and  cleaned  the  spinach,  put  it  into  plenty 
ling  water,  throw  in  a  small  handful  of  salt,  as  soon  as  it 
f  separates  it  is  done  enough ;  strain  off  the  liquor,  put  it 
resh  water  for  ten  minutes,  strain  off  the  liquor  completely, 
he  spinach,  lay  it  in  a  stewpan  with  a  piece  of  fresh  butter, 
t  stirred :  when  the  butter  has  been  absorbed,  as  much  weU- 
led  gravy  soup  as  will  make  the  consistence  of  cream  may  bo* 
,  with  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and  serve. 


859. — BROILED   MUSHROOMS. 

e  some  large  open  mushrooms,  leaving  the  stalks  on,  paring 
to  a  point;  wash  them  well,  turn  them  on  the  back  of  a  drying 
to  drain.  Put  into  a  stewpan  two  ounces  of  butter,  some 
ed  parsley,  and  shalots,  fry  them  for  a  minute  on  the  fire; 
melted  place  your  mushroom  stalks  upwards  on  a  saute 
then  pour  the  butter  and  parsley  over  all  the  mushrooms; 
r  and  salt  them  well  with  black  pepper,  put  them  in  the  oven 
il ;  when  done  put  a  little  good  stock  to  them,  give  them  a 
ind  dish  them,  pour  the  liquor  over  them,  add  more  gravy, 
t  it  be  put  in  hot ;  an  hour  and  a  quarter  before  it  is  done  add 
ible-spoonfuls  of  red  wine  and  the  liver;  serve  very  hot. 


860. — LETTUCES  AND  ENDIVES 

etter  I  think  only  cut  into  pieces  or  into  quarters,  and  dished 
round,  but  they  must  be  done  in  some  good  stock  and  not  put 
be  thick  sauce,  but  when  you  take  them  out  after  being  done, 
ill  press  and  form  them,  then  boil  down  their  liquor  to  a  glaze, 
will,  when  added  to  your  already  thick  sauce,  give  the  desired 
r,  glaze  the  quarters  before  dishing  them,  pour  the  sauce  under 
»und. 


861. — TURNIPS,  WHOLE. 

e  several  large  turnips,  scoop  them  out  with  an  iron  cutter  for 
irpote,  throw  them  in  water  as  you  cut  them,  when  done  blanch 
tnea  strain  them  off,  if  for  white  add  bechemel  to  them;  if 
>wn,  brown  sauce ;  season  as  before. 


230  VSGETABLES,   SALADS,   ETC. 


862. — PUREE  OP  TURNIPS. 

Pare  and  cut  up  seyeral  turnips  into  slices,  put  them  on  to  bwl  m 
milk  and  water  until  tender,  strain  them  on  the  hack  of  a  sierc, 
throw  away  the  liquor,  and  ruh  through  the  turnips;  when  done 
put  them  into  a  ste>vpan  with  a  piece  of  butter,  a  spoonful  of  floar, 
a  gill  of  cr^am,  a  little  sugar,  salt,  and  cayenne  pepper. 

863. — TRUFFLES. 

The  truffle,  like  the  mushroom,  is  a  species  of  fungus  common  in 
France  and  Italy.  It  grows  about  eight  or  ten  inches  below  the 
surface  of  the  ground.  As  it  imparts  a  most  delicious  flavour,  it  is 
much  used  in  cooking.  Being  dug  out  of  the  earth  it  requires  a  great 
deal  of  wasliing  and  brushing  before  it  can  be  applied  to  culinaij 
purposes.  When  washed,  the  water  should  be  warm  and  changed 
trequently  ;  it  loses  much  of  its  flavour  when  dried. 

864. — TRUFFLES   WITH   CHAMPAGNE. 

Take  ten  or  twelre  well-cleaned  truffles,  put  them  into  a  stewpaa 
oo  rashers  of  bacon,  add  a  bay  leaf»  a  seasoned  bouquet,  a  little  grated 
bacon,  some  slices  of  ham,  some  stock,  and  a  bottle  of  champagne; 
cover  them  with  a  piece  of  buttered  paper,  put  on  the  lid,  and  set  the 
stewpan  in  hot  ashes,  put  fire  on  the  top,  and  let  them  stew  for  an 
hour ;  when  done  drain  them  on  a  clean  cloth,  and  serve  on  a  folded 
xiapkin. 

865. — TRUFFLES,   TOURTB    OF. 

Take  two  pounds  of  flne  truffles,  wash,  and  pick  them  into  a 
stewpan  with  six  thin  slices  of  ham,  a  very  little  carrot,  a  sliced  onion, 
a  bay  leaf,  sweet  herbs  in  powder,  salt,  and  champagne ;  lay  rashers 
of  bacon  over  the  whole,  and  stew  them  to  nearly  a  jelly  ;  when  cold 
put  the  truffles  into  a  crust  with  all  the  seasoning,  bake  the  tourte, 
and  serve  as  usual. 


866. — TRUFFLES   EN    SURPRISE. 

Take  a  dozen  large  truffles  of  as  good  a  shape  and  near  a  size  as 
possible,  dress  them  in  some  champagne  wine,  drain,  and  let  them 
cool,  then  place  them  on  the  flattest  side,  and  with  a  root -cutter  of  an 
inch  diameter  mark  out  the  centre  to  within  a  fourth  of  their  thickness, 
cut  the  top  of  these  out  with  the  point  of  a  knife  and  clear  away  the 
remainder,  flU  up  the  space  thus  left  with  a  pur^e  oi  fowl  or  game,  a 
salpicon,  or  any  ragout  or  other  puree  mixed  with  bechamel  you  may 
think  proper ;  when  all  are  filled  cover  the  aperture  with  the  piece 
taken  out,  and  serve  your  truffles  either  in  croustade  or  on  a  folded 
napkin. 

867. TO   KEEP  TRUFFLES. 

After  opening  a  fresh  bottle  and  not  requiring  them  all,  return 
them  into  the  bottle,  fllKng  up  the  bottle  with  sobm  boiled  aherrj, 
cork  them  down  until  wanted  agaia. 


TEGETABLES,   SALADS^   ETC.  231 

'868w ^MORELS. 

he  morel  is  a  kind  of  mushroom,  and  usually  dressed  in  the 
e  manner,  for  a  ragout  or  garnish  they  are  prepared  as  follows:— 
}  the  largest  morels,  take  off  their  stalks  and  split  them  in  two 
bree  pieces,  w^ash  and  put  them  into  a  hasin  of  warm  water  to 
them  from  the  sand  and  earth,  then  blanch  and  drain  and  put 
a  into  a  stewpan  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  lemon  juice,  give 
Q  a  turn  and  moisten  with  white  or  bro^vn  sauce. 


869. — MORELS   IN   GRAVY. 

ut,  wash,  and  drain  your  morels,  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with 
oil,  and  pepper,  let  them  boil  for  half  an  hour,  then  add  some 
gravy  and  a  little  wine,  then  simmer  them  till  sufficiently  done, 

e  them  with  the  sauce,  if  the  latter  be  too  thick  squeeze  lemon 

3  in  it. 


870. MORELS   TO    KEEP. 

hey  should  be  dried  slowly,  put  in  paper  bags,  and  kept  in  a  dry 


871. SIDNEY  smith's   llECEIPT   FOR   SAULD. 

Two  large  potatoes,  passed  through  kitchen  sieve, 

Unwonted  softness  to  the  salad  give, 

Of  mordant  mustard  add  a  sinjrle  spoon — 

Distrust  the  condiment  uhich  bites  so  soon ; 

But  deem  it  not,  thou  man  of  herbs,  a  fault 

To  add  a  douhle  quantity  of  salt ; 

Three  times  the  spoon  with  oil  of  Lucca  crown, 

And  once  witk  vinegar,  procured  from  town. 

True  flavov  needs  it,  and  yoor  poet  begs 

The  pomded  yellow  of  two  well- boiled  eggik 

Let  onioB  wtam^  lurk  within  the  bowl. 

And,  aawe  miMctcd,  animaite  the  whole : 

And,  laitlj,  tm  tke  flavovred  eompood  toM 

A  ■■pr  teaspoos  of  andiovy  «nce. 

TkcB,  tho«|^  greoi  tntlc  fiuU  tbongk  venison's  tough, 

Ami  luHB  and  turkcjs  are  not  Boiled  enough, 

SfitnKlj  lUB  Ike  l^peare  may  saj, — 

harm  me-  I  liave  dined  to  day  ! 


872. — SALAD    PARISIAN. 

ike  five  very  red  carrots  and  as  many  turnips,  cut  all  these  with 
»t-cutter  into  round  pieces  an  inch  long  and  three  eighths  of  an 
in  diameter,  cut  some  asparagus  heads  and  French  beans  of  the 
>  lengthy  toss  them  all  up  in  a  little  oil,  vinegar,  salt,  pepper, 
gon,  chervil,  and  minced  shalot;  cut  three  large  parboiled 
;oe8  and  a  red  beet  root  into  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  one 
,  and  two  and  a  half  long ;  cut  these  again  into  long  triangles, 
I  them  on  a  dish  alternately,  that  is,  the  slices  of  potato  with 


232  TBOETABLBB,  SALADS,  ETa 

the  p<nnt  npivarda,  and  the  beet  root  between  each  with  the  point 
downwards,  >et  them  ronnd  the  dish  bo  as  to  fonn  b  crown  tix  incfa«a 
in  diameter.  To  gire  it  coDsiBtence  pour  orei  the  bottom  of  the  diih 
some  aspic  jell^,  aud  put  it  on  ice  to  set  it;  then  take  thir^ 
champignons,  pieice  the  centre  of  each,  and  in  these  holes  sdcK 
Baparagns  beads,  French  heans,  carrots,  or  beet  root,  all  cut  iato 
round  pieces  an  inch  and  a  half  long ;  dip  the  champignons  into  the 
aspic  jellf  a  little  set,  and  place  them  alternately  on  the  beet  root; 
when  all  are  done  pour  jour  inacedoine  of  carrots  into  the  crom, 
mask  it  lightly  with  a  white  mayonnaise  in  the  centre,  Sx  a  fine  let- 
tuce heart,  with  hearts  cut  in  halves  or  quarters,  and  serve  your  salad. 

873.— SiLAD. 

Take  one  or  two  lettuces,  split  them  in  two,  thoroushly  wash 
ftem,  and  drain  the  water  from  tbem,  then  cut  them  into  small 
pieces,  and  then  mix  them  with  small  salad,  celery,  and  beet  root; 
cnt  in  small  pieces  some  young  radishes,  cut  into  small  pieces  sliced 
cucumber,  and  an  egg  boiled  hud  cut  into  pieces  and  garnished  about 
them.  Hake  a  sauce  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  boiled  hard,  whid 
rub  well  together  in  a  basin  with  a  wooden  spoon,  add  a  little  peppcf, 
■alt,  and  mustard,  when  these  are  mixed  to  a  smooth  paste  put  in  a 
few  tea-spoonAils  of  sweet  oil,  mixing  it  well  between  each  spoonful; 
then  mix  in  a  few  tea-spoonfiils  of  vinegar  in  the  same  manner ;  whea 
the  sauce  is  mixed  according  to  the  directions,  it  will  nerer  reqnin 
shaking,  and  will  always  look  like  cream ;  pour  this  sauce  over  the 
salad,  or  serve  it  in  a  ciuet. 


.^.-.^fi^SS^^t'" 


POTTED  MEATS.  233 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

POTTED  MEATS. 

874. — ^BEEP  POTTED. 

Take  three  pounds  of  lean  beef,  salt  it  two  or  three  days  with 
half  a  pound  of  salt  and  half  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  divide  it  into 
pieces  of  a  pound  each  and  put  it  into  an  earthen  pan  just  sufficient 
to  contain  it;  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  cover  it  close  with  paste 
and  set  it  in  a  slow  oven  for  four  hours.  When  taken  from  the  oven 
pour  the  gravy  from  it  into  a  basin,  shred  the  meat  fine,  moisten  it 
with  the  gravy  poured  from  the  meat,  and  pound  it  thoroughly  in  a 
marble  mortar  with  fresh  butter  until  it  becomes  a  fine  paste ;  season 
it  with  black  pepper  and  allspice,  or  cloves  pounded,  or  nutmeg 
grated ;  put  it  in  pots,  press  it  down  as  close  as  possible,  put  a 
weight  on  it  and  let  it  stand  all  night;  next  day,  when  quite  cold, 
cover  it  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  with  clarified  butter,  and  tie  it 
over  with  paper. 


875.— BEEF   POTTED. 

Take  some  lean  beef,  rub  it  with  salt  and  salt-petre,  let  it  lie 
three  or  four  days,  then  cut  in  pieces,  and  boil  it,  then  beat  it  to  a 
powder,  mixing  with  it  some  fat,  add  spiqe,  put  it  in  pots,  and  pour 
butter  over  it. 


876. — ^BEEP   POTTED   LIKE  VENISON. 

Take  a  whole  thin  flank  of  beef,  pull  off  the  inward  skin,  and 
cut  it  across  and  across,  particularly  in  the  thickest  parts,  lay  it  for 
six  hours  in  pump  water,  take  as  much  salt-petre  as  the  quantity 
of  an  egg,  mix  with  about  two  pounds  of  white  salt,  and  rub  it  well 
into  the  meat ;  then  sprinkle  upon  it  nearly  a  pint  of  wine  vinegar, 
and  then  let  it  lie  for  three  or  four  days,  turning  and  rubbing  it 
once  a-day,  then  rinse  it  out  of  the  brine  with  a  pint  of  claret,  and 
season  it  with  cloves,  mace,  and  nutmeg,  white  and  Jamaica  pepper, 
of  each  a  quarter  of  an  ounce,  bake  all  together  with  savory, 
thyme,  sage,  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon  shred  together,  and  then  well 
Tabbed  into  the  cuts  and  slashes  on  the  inside ;  then  bind  it  up  with 
tape,  and  lay  it  in  a  long  pot ;  put  in  the  claret,  and  lay  the  skins 
at  the  top  to  save  it,  then  bake  it. 


234  POTTED  MEATS. 

877« BIRDS   POTTED. HOW   TO    PRESERVE   WHEN   THBT   BEOIM 

TO    GROW    OLD. 

\\Tien  birds  are  sent  a  long  way  they  often  smell  so  bad  that 
they  can  hardly  be  borne,  from  the  rankness  of  the  butter;  by 
doing  them  in  the  following  way  they  will  be  as  if  only  fresh  done. 
Set  a  large  saucepan  of  clean  water  on  the  fire,  when  it  boils  take 
off  the  butter  at  the  top,  then  take  the  fowls  one  by  one,  throw 
them  in  the  saucepan  of  water  half  a  minute,  take  one  out  and  dry  it 
well  inside  and  out,  do  so  till  they  are  all  done,  scald  your  pot 
clean ;  when  the  birds  are  quite  cold  season  with  mace,  pepper, 
and  salt,  according  to  taste,  put  them  down  close  in  a  pot,  put 
clarified  butter  over  them. 


878.— CHAR   POTTED.' 

Cleanse  them,  cut  off  their  fins,  tails,  and  heads,  and  lay  them  in 
rows,  in  a  long  baking  pan ;  first  secison  them  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  mace  :  when  done  let  them  stand  till  cdd,  pot  theniy  and  poor 
clarified  butter  over  them. 


879.— CHEESE   POTTED. 

Take  three  pounds  of  Cheshire  cheese,  and  half  a  pound  of  the 
best  butter,  beat  it  in  a  mortar,  a  large  glass  of  sack,  half  an  oiinee 
of  mace  beaten  and  sifted,  mix  it  well,  pot  it,  pour  clarified  buUer 
over  it. 


880.— CHICKEN    AND    HAM    POTTED. 

Season  some  pieces  of  chicken  Avith  mace,  cloves,  and  pepper, 
and  bake  it  for  about  two  hours  in  a  close  covered  pan,  with  some 
water,  then  pound  them  quite  small,  moistening  with  either  melted 
butter,  or  the  liquor  that  they  are  baked  in,  pound  some,  and  put 
this  with  the  chicken  in  alternate  layers,  in  pots  or  pans;  press 
them  down  tight,  and  cover  them  with  butter. 


881. GAME   OF   ALL    KINDS. 

Any  dressed  game  you  may  have  in  your  lardev.  Pound  well  in 
your  mortar  all  the  tender  meat  free  from  skin  and  bone ;  add  to  it 
some  pounded  mace,  allspice,  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and  white 
pepper,  a  few  grains  of  powdered  sugar,  an  equal  quantity,  if  you 
have  it,  of  good  fat  ham.  When  well  pounded  rub  it  through  a 
wire  sieve,  if  you  have  no  ham  use  an  equal  quantity  of  butter 
instead;  mix  it  well  up  again,  and  place  it  tightly  in  earthen 
shapes ;  cover  each  jar  over  mth  clarified  butter  or  lard ;  turn  out 
with  warm  water,  when  required  either  for  breakfast  or  Ixmcheon, 
or  a  second  course,  dish  in  or  on  aspic,  garnish  with  fresh  paralej. 


882. LOBSTERS   POTTED. 

Take  out  the  meat  as  whole  as  you  csn,  split  the  tail,  and 
remove  the  gut ;  if  the  inside  is  not  watery  add  that,  teuon  wilk 


FOmO  KEATS.  235 

lutmeg,  white  pepper,  salt^  and  one  or  two  cloves  in  the 
owder ;  put  a  little  hutter  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  the 
i  smooth  over  it  with  bay  leares  between,  and  bake  it 
When  done  pour  the  whole  on  the  bottom  of  a  sieve,  and 
Ebrk  lay  the  pieces  into  potting  jars,  some  of  each  sort,  with 
toning  about  it ;  when  cold  pour  clarified  butter  over  it,  but 

will  be  good  the  day  after  it  is  done,  and  if  seasoned  high 
ickly  covered  with  butter  will  keep  some  time.     Potted 

may  be  used  cold,  or  as  fricasee  with  cream  sauce. 


883. FABTSIDOS   POTTED. 

our  partridges  be  cleaned,  and  seasoned  with  mace,  allspice, 
epper,  and  salt  powdered ;  rub  every  part  well,  then  lay  them 
iw-pan,  breast  downwards,  putting  the  birds  as  close  as 
;  put  plenty  of  butter  over  them,  cover  the  pan  with  a 
lour  paste,  and  a  paper  over  that,  closely  down,  and  bake ; 
lid  put  the  birds  into  pots,  and  cover  them  with  butter. 


8B4. PIGE01»»  POTTED. 

Tefal  that  they  are  fresh,  clean  and  season  them  with  salt, 
per,  lay  them  close  together  in  a  small  deep  pan,  for  the 
ey  are  put  the  less  butter  they  will  take.  Cover  them  with 
ie  them  over  with  a  thin  paper,  and  bake  them ;  when  cold 
a  to  dry  in  pots  that  will  hold  two  or  three  in  each,  and 
iter  over  them,  using  that  which  was  baked  as  some ;  mind 
?r  should  be  thick  over  them ;  if  they  are  done  for  keeping 
ons  would  lie  closer  and  want  less  butter,  if  they  are  boned 
into  the  pot  in  an  oval  form.  They  may  be  stuffed  with 
at,  made  with  veal  and  bacon,  &c. ,  and  they  will  eat  very 
f  a  high  seasofting  is  preferred  add  more  allspice,  and  a 
enne  pepper,  before  baking. 


885. SHBIMFS   POTTED. 

em  be  nicely  boiled,  then  pick  them  out  of  the  shell;;,  and 
lem  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  mace ;  put  them 
>gether  in  a  pot,  and  set  them  for  about  ten  minutes  in  an 
£,  and  when  cold  pour  over  eiariited  butter. 


886. SMELTS    POTTED. 

out  the  inside,  season  with  salt,  mace  pounded,  and  pepper, 
in  a  pan  with  butter  on  the  top,  bake  them ;  when  nearly 
them  out,  lay  them  on  a  cloth,  put  them  into  puts,  clear 

itter  from  the  gravy,  clarify,  and  pour  it  over  them. 


887. VEAL    POTTED. 

>art  of  a  knuckle  of  veal  that  has  been  stewed,  bake  it  for 
>8e,  beat  it  to  a  paste,  with  butter,  salt,  white  pepper,  and 
uided,  pot  it,  and  pour  clarified  butter  over. 


236 


POTTED  UKATfi. 


888. — ^VBU^  TOTXBD. 

'  T&ke  one  pound  of  lean  Teitl,  put  it  into  b  stew-pan,  with  two 
ounces  of  &esh  butter,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  pepper,  lalt,  sifted 
mace,  a  bay  leaf,  allspice,  cloves,  nntmeff,  cinnamon,  and  mushroom 
powder,  a  small  quantity  of  each,  a  little  thyme,  savory,  and  a 
couple  of  sfaalots,  chopped  fine ;  stew  them  ten  minutes,  then 
pound  them,  add  a  pound  of  the  mellow  part  of  a  boiled  tongae 
beaten  to  a  paste,  half  a  pound  of  cold  heisb  butter ;  mix  all  well 
together,  with  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  then  press  the  mixture  down 
tight  in  small  pots,  cover  them  with  paper,  and  put  them  into  a 
moderate  oven,  bake  twenty  minutes,  then  pour  over  them  clarified 
butter. 


889.^TKiriB0IT   POTTED. 

Put  the  venison  into  a  pan,  and  pour  red  wine  over  it,  and  cover 
it  with  a  pound  of  butter,  put  a  paste  over  the  pan,  set  it  in  the 
oven  to  bake.  When  done  take  the  meat  out  of  Uie  gravy,  beat  it 
well  with  the  butter  that  has  rieen  to  the  top,  add  more  if  necessary, 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  mace  pounded,  put  into  pots,  set  them 
in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  take  them  out;  when  cold  cover 
with  clarified  butler. 


890. — WOODCOCKS  POTTED. 

They  are  done  in  the  same  manner  as  pigeons  are  potted. 


CHAPTEE    XIV. 


paste;  heat  fzes,  tibh  pibs,  pitdsinos,  tabts, 

tabtlet8,  puffs,  etc. 


OBBERTATIOSS  T7P0S  PIES. 

There  are  few  articles  of  cookery  more  generally  admired  than 
s  good  looking  and  a  relishing  pic ;  it  may  be  made  of  Buch  a 
Tanety  of  things,  and  is  at  all  times  much  liked.  In  the  hall  dinners 
•nne  are  best  eaten  vhen  cold,  and  in  that  cnse  you  should  not 
put  «JT  met  in  the  forcemeat  you  use  with  tlieni,  should  the  pic 
be  made  of  meat  that  requires  more  dressing  to  make  it  tender  tlian 
the  baking  of  the  nniat  will  allow,  or  should  you  wish  to  send  it 
up  ia  a  raised  pie  form,  I  will  make  the  folloiving  observations ;  now, 
ftr  instance,  take  four  potmds  of  the  Teiny  piece  of  beef  that  has  fat 
■ltd  lean,  fiist  wuh  it,  pnt  it  in  a  itewpan,  Eeasoning  it  with  pepper, 


238  PASTsr. 

ground  mace,  and  allspice,  pepper  and  salt,  stand  it  on  a  very  slow  fi  ^^c, 
let  a  piece  of  butter  be  put  at  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan,  which  8hoi^a^\<3 
only  just  hold  it,  and  cover  it  over,  keep  it  simmering  in  its  o^*:^b 
gravy  until  it  begins  to  sink  down  in  the  stewpan,  then  add  a  liti  ^le 
more  seasoning,  some  forcemeat,  and  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  if  y  ou 
mean  it  for  a  pie  dish,  add  a  little  gravy  in  the  dish,  but  if  to  7)e 
in  a  raised  crust  do  not  put  gravy  now,  but  when  cold  and  your  sto-cir 
of  a  strong  jelly,  put  the  forcemeat  at  the  bottom,  and  middle,  e^^d 
top. 

Heating  the  oven  properly  is  of  great  consequence  in  baking,  puff 
paste  requires  a  quick  oven,  but  then  if  too  quick  it  will  catch  aind  not 
rise,  and  if  too  slow  it  will  be  soddened,  not  rise,  and  want  colour. 

You  should  always  be  very  particular  in  mnking  pies  either  cold 
or  hot,  as  they  are  invariably  tasted,  and  most  frequently  arc  used 
at  a  family  dinner.  They  can  be  made  good  of  a  great  variety  of 
meats,  game,  and  poultry,  dressed  and  raw  meats ;  and  either  in 
earthen  imitation  raised  pie,  earthen  dishes,  or  paper  dishes,  or  as 
raised  pies;  in  almost  all  thcte  is  a  variation  except  in  the  seasoning. 


89L      gJlSED  CRUST  FOR  STANDING  PIES. 

Boil  Trailer  with  a  fittle  lard,  or  dripping,  or  Imtter;  while  it  is  hot, 
with  a  spocMi,  stir  in  as  much  flour  as  you  require,  imkug  the  paste  as 
stiff  as  yoa  can;  work  it  until  very  sisooth;  when  quite  smooth,  dry  the 
hot  stewpan,  put  your  paste  into  it,  and  cover  it;  let  it  lie  aone  time, 
that  it  may  get  quite  cold,  then  commence  your  pie.  If  you  OMmot  raise 
a  pie  by  your  hands  into  a  good  shi^^e,  yoQ  must  butter  a  tin  ahape, 
which  is  made  for  these  occasions,  and  press  it  to  <he  sides  of  die  tin, 
and  bake  it  in  the  tin,  but  as  it  will  not  colour  with  the  tin,  take  it 
off  when  done  and  egg  it,  and  put  it  again  into  the  oven  to  get 
a  good  colour.  If  you  have  not  a  mould  yon  nuHt  build  yonr  |m^ 
roll  your  paste  of  the  thickness  to  stand,  and  cnft  ovt  the  top  and  At 
bottom,  then  roll  out  a  long  piece  for  the  ndes;  cement  At  «dei 
to  the  bottom  with  egg,  brinpng  the  fimttCT  rather  further  oat,  then 
pinch  them  both  together,  stiA.  the  two  adee  together  with  e;^,  then 
iill  your  pie,  and  put  on  the  cover,  pinching  the  ed^s  tc^ether;  ^g  it 
all  over,  ornament  the  top  and  sides  with  the  remaining  paste,  bake 
it  in  a  slow  oven  and  fill  in  good  gravy  before  it  gets  cold. 


892. PUFF   PASTE   FOR   PATTIES   OR   FIRST   COURSE    DISHES. 

One  pound  of  butter  salt  or  fresh,  and  one  pound  of  flour  will 
make  a  good  dish  of  patty  cases,  or  a  large  cnse  for  a  vol-au-rent, 
and  tlie  remainder  into  a  good  disli  of  second  course  pastry. 

Put  your  flour  upon  your  board,  work  finely  in  with  your  hands 
lightly  a  quarter  of  the  butter,  then  add  water  suflkient  to  make  it 
the  stiffness  or  softness  of  the  remaining  butter,  each  should  \>e  the 
same  substance ;  work  it  up  smooth,  then  roll  it  out  longways  half 
an  inch  thick,  place  the  remainder  of  the  butter  cut  in  slices  half 
way  on  the  paste;  dust  flour  lightly  over  it,  and  double  it  up, 
press  it  down  with  your  rolling-pin,  let  it  lie  a  few  minutes,  then 
roll  it  three  times  thinner  each  time,  letting  it  lie  a  few  minutes 


PASTRY.  239 


each  idU,  keep  it  free  from  sticking  to  the  board  or  rolling- 
Tiiis  paste  is  ready  for  pattj-cases,  or/  Tol-au-Tcnt,  or  meat 


893. — SECoin>  course  paste. 

The  paste  you  haye  left  roll  it  up  together,  then  roll  it  a  qu<irter  of 
inch  thick,  dot  it  all  over  with  pieces  of  butter  httle  larger  than  a 
sivt,  half  an  inch  apart ;  double  up  your  paste  endways,  then  roll  it 
Cdit  particularly  thin  twice;  flour  it  well  each  time,  when  done  you  can 
anake  from  this  a  yariety  of  second  course  pastry,  sprinkling  sugar 
orer  them  when  nearly  done,  holding  a  red  hot  shoyei  or  salamander 
oyer  them  to  glaze  them. 

894. PASTE    FOR  BORDERS    OP   DISHES. 

Six  or  eight  yolks  of  eggs,  a  few  drops  of  water,  a  little  salt,  keep 
nixing  in  flour  until  so  stiif  you  can  sairce  work  it,  beat  it  and  work 
qnite  smooth,  keep  it  in  the  moist  until  yon  require  it,  then  roll  it 
out  quite  thin,  and  cut  out  your  patterns,  placing  upon  your  dishes 
before  it  gets  too  dry,  dipping  them  on  the  bottom.  Edge  in  white 
of  ^gs. 

895. GTTM   PASTE. 

Put  some  gum  dragon  into  a  basin  with  warm  water  enough  to 
coyer  one  inch  above  the  gum,  set  this  in  a  warm  closet  for  four  and 
twenty  hours;  have  a  new  tammy  ready  laid  over  a  dish,  spread  it 
on  it  and  squeeze  through  as  much  as  you  can  at  first,  then  open 
(he  tammy,  then  spread  the  gum  out  again  and  then  squeeze  it ; 
vepeat  this  till  the  gum  is  through,  then  lay  it  on  the  slab,  work  it 
well  with  your  hands,  put  in  the  juice  of  lemon  and  add  a  pound  of 
doable  refined  sugar  by  degrees  as  you  work  it,  but  before  you  have 

5 it  in  tiic  whole  of  the  sugar,  put  in  some  of  the  best  starch  powder; 
end  them  well  together  till  the  paste  begins  to  make  an  impression, 
tiien  roll  it  in  a  cloth  and  let  it  lie  in  a  damp  place  for  a  week;  work 
it  with  powder  and  it  will  cut  and  mould  to  any  shape.  When  you 
want  to  harden  it,  set  it  in  the  cool,  and  when  you  Avant  to  colour  it, 
for  red  use  cochineal  or  carmine,  for  blue,  for  violet  use  indigo,  for 
yellow  saffron,  for  green  beet  leaves;  scald  over  the  fire,  the  thick 
part  mix  with  the  paste. 

896.— GUM  PASTE  OF  GDM  DRAGON. 

Pot  your  gum  to  soak  all  night,  the  next  day  twist  the  gum 
throngh  a  dean  coarse  cloth,  mix  in  equal  quantity  of  starch  powder, 
mix  well  and  veiy  stifle,  in  your  mortar. 


897. — GENOESE  PASTE. 

The  same  weight  of  sugar,  butter,  flour,  and  eggs,  the  grating  of  a 
lemon,  a  pinch  of  salt,  work  all  this  together,  add  half  a  glass  of 
.bmndy,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground  sweet  almonds,  and  a  few 


240  PA8TRT. 


bitter  ones,  then  spread  the  paste  on  a  baking  sheet  quite  smooth  and 
eren,  put  it  in  the  oven ;  when  it  is  set  cut  it  into  any  shape  toq 
may  fancj^  return  it  again  into  the  oven,  and  brovrn  it  on  both  siaes. 
Dish  on  a  napkin. 

898. — ^PANCy  PASTRY. 

Use  some  iancy  cutter,  and  use  the  second  paste  as  before,  cuttinfl| 
each  piece  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  egg  them  and  glaze  them,  ana 
bake  them  a  light  brown,  when  cold  plit  different  coloured  sweet- 
meats, such  as  apple  jelly,  red  currant  jelly  into  deyices  upon  the  top 
of  each  piece,  dish  them  upon  a  napkin. 


899.— SANPWICH  PASTRY. 

The  prepared  second  paste  you  will  cut  into  lengths  about  three 
inches  and  a  half  or  quarter  thick,  lay  each  piece  on  its  side  upon  the 
baking  sheet  without  paper,  each  an  inch  apart ;  it  will  take  twentr- 
four  pieces  to  make  a  dish.  When  half  baked  cover  each  piece  thicldj 
over  with  sifted  sugar,  then  return  them  to  the  oven  until  getting  a 
little  coloured,  take  them  out  and  hold  the  red  hot  shovel  at  a  distance 
over  them  until  they  are  a  beautiful  gloss,  then  take  them  off  upon 
paper  on  a  dish ;  spread  one  piece  with  some  sort  of  jam,  then  place 
the  other  cup  on  it  until  all  is  done,  dish  them  on  a  napkinrouxuL 


900. SWEET   OR  BISCUIT   CRUST. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  flour  on  your  board,  put  into  it  two  yolks  of 
eggs,  mix  this  all  up  that  you  cannot  see  the  egg^  then  add  a  good 
dessert- spoonful  of  fine  sifted  sugar;  work  it  all  well  in  the  floui^ 
then  work  in  about  two  ounces  of  butter,  then  mix  a  little  water 
or  milk  sufficient  to  make  a  stiff  paste.  Beat  it  with  your  rolling  pin 
well,  and  work  it  well  with  your  hands  until  quite  smooth,  roll  half 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thickness,  for  your  tarts  either  for  slip  tarts  or 
covered,  glaze  the  covered  tarts  either  before  going  into  the  oven  or 
after,  if  first,  beat  up  a  little  white  of  egg,  spread  it  on  the  top  of 
your  tart,  then  cover  it  with  sifted  sugar,  then  gently  sprinkle  the 
sugar  with  water  until  all  is  damped,  then  sugar  it  agam,  bake  it  in  a 
slow  fire,  notch  the  edge  of  your  tart  very  fine. 


901. APRICOT  PIE. 

Take  eighteen  fine  apricots,  cut  them  in  halves,  and  take  out  the 
stones,  place  them  in  a  dish  lined  with  puff  paste,  add  four  ounces  of 
powdered  sugar,  and  four  ounces  of  butter  lukewarm,  then  put  on  the 
upper  crust,  glaze  with  the  white  of  egg,  and  sprinkle  siftea  sugar  all 
over,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


902. ^BEBP  STEAK    PIE. 

Prepare  all  as  before,  but  line  the  dish  with  slices  of  potatoes, 
then  meat  and  seasoning,  leave  out  the  eggs  but  continue  the  layen 


PASTRY.  241 

of  potatoes,  beat  your  steaks  well,  and  be  sure  you  have  an  equal 
quantity  of  fat  to  the  steaks ;  use  stock  as  before,  before  baking  and 
after  it  is  done. 


903. — ^BEEP  STEAK   PIE. 

Take  some  good  steaks,  beat  them  with  a  rolling-pin,  season  them 
^dth pepper  and  salt;  fill  a  dish  with  them,  adding  as  much  water 
at  will  naif  fill  it,  then  coyer  it  with  a  good  crust,  and  bake  it  well. 

904.— BEEP   PIES   RAISED  TnTII   TRUFFLES. 

Take  a  small  fat  rump  of  beef,  bone  it,  daub  it  with  pieces  of  fat 
Won,  put  it  into  a  raised  crust  with  light  forcemeat,  and  plenty  of 
(Ken  ^ffles  peeled  and  whole  round  it;  cover  it  with  a  crust,  gar- 
idih,  and  bake  it  two  hours.  Make  a  sauce  with  a  pint  of  veal  broth, 
a  gill  of  lemon  pickle,  a  bay  leaf,  a  few  chopped  shalots,  and  cayenne 
pepper,  and  put  in  the  pie.  Tvvo  hours  afterwards  take  off  the  top 
ef  toe  pie,  slum  the  fat  from  it,  glaze  the  rump,  and  it  will  then  he 
Kidy  for  table. 

905. — CHICKEN  PIE. 

Out  up  two  young  fowls  with  white  and  cayenne  pepper,  salt, 
a  little  mace,  and  nutmeg,  if  spice  is  approved  of,  all  in  the  finest 
Powder.  Put  the  chicken,  slices  of  ham,  or  fresh  gammon  of  bacon, 
nitemeat,  and  hard  eggs  by  turns  in  layers;  if  it  is  to  he  baked  in  a 
dkh  put  a  little  water,  but  none  if  in  a  raised  crust.  By  the  time  it  re- 
toms  from  the  oven  have  ready  your  gravy,  if  it  is  to  be  eaten  hot  you 
ttapr  add  truffles,  morels,  mushrooms,  &c.,  but  not  if  to  be  eaten  cold. 
If  it  if  made  in  a  dish,  put  as  much  gravy  as  will  fill  it,  but  in  a  raised 
emit,  the  gravy  must  be  nicely  strained  and  then  put  in  cold  as  jelly; 
to  make  tne  gravy  clear  you  may  give  it  a  boil  with  the  whites  of  two 
ejgi  after  taking  away  the  meat,  and  then  run  it  through  a  fine  lawn 
sere. 

Babbits  if  young  and  in  flesh,  do  as  well.  Their  legs  should  be 
ctt  abort,  and  the  breast  bones  must  not  go  in  but  will  help  to  make 
tke  gravy. 

906. — COLD   VEAL   OR   CHICKEN   PIE. 

Jaj  a  cmst  into  a  shallow  tart  dish,  and  fill  it  with  the  following 
^tare : — shred  cold  veal  or  fowl,  and  half  the  quantity  of  ham, 
*oitly  lean,  put  to  it  a  little  cream,  season  with  white  and  cayenne 
^n^9  salt,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  a  small  piece  of  shalot  chopped  as 
^^  as  possible :  cover  with  crust,  and  turn  it  out  of  the  dish  when 
^^Iced,  or  bake  the  crust  with  a  piece  of  bread  to  keep  it  hollow,  and 
^ntm  the  mince  with  a  little  cream,  and  pour  in. 


907.— calf's  head  pie. 

Stew  a  knuckle  of  veal  till  fit  for  eating  with  two  onions,  a  little 
iabglasB,  a  fiiggot  of  sweet  herbs,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  few  pepper, 

R 


242  PASXBT. 


cqrns  in  three  pints  of  water,  keep  the  broth  for  the  pie.     Take  ofiPa 
little  of  the  meat,  for  forcemeat  balls,  and  let  them  be  used  for  tJie 
family,  but  boil  the  bones  until  the  broth  is  very  good  :  half  boil  tJb$ 
head,  and  cut  it  into  square  pieces;  put  a  layer  of  ham  at  the  bottom 
of  them,  some  head,  fiist  fat  then  lean,  with  forcemeat  balls,  and 
hard-boiled  eggs  cut  iti  half,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  full,  but  he 
careful  not  to  place  the  pieces  close  together  or  the  pie  will  be  too 
solid,  and  there  will  be  no  space  for  the  jelly.  The  meat  must  be  &ai 
pretty  well  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg,  put 
a  little  water  and  a  little  stock  into  the  dish,  and  cover  it  with  a 
thickish  crust,  bake  it  in  a  slow  oven,  and  wheu  donev  pour  into  it 
as  much  gravy  as  it  will  possibly  hold,  and  do  not  cut  it  till  pezfectlj 
cold,  in  doing  which  use  a  very  shatp  knife,  and  first  cut  out  a  laigs 
slice,  going  down  to  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  when  done  tbos 
thinner  slices  can  be  cut.     The  different  colours  and  the  dear  jel^ 
have  a  beautiful  appearance. 


908. DUCK   PIE. 

Bone  a  full  grown  young  duck  and  a  fowl,  wash  them  and 
with  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  allspice  and  mace  pounded ;  put  the 
fowl  within  the  duck,  and  on  the  former  a  calf's  tongue  pickled  red, 
bcnied  tctj  tender  and  peeled,  press  the  whole  close,  the  skins  of  tiie 
legs  riiould  be  drawn  inward,  that  the  body  of  the  fowl  may  be  quits 
smooth  ;  if  approved,  the  space  between  the  sides  of  the  crust  nui;f 
be  filled  with  a  fine  force-meat  Bake  it  in  a  slow  oven,  either  in  a 
dish  or  raised  pie -crust,  ornamented. 


909. — EEL  PIE. 

Cot  middling  size  eels  into  lengths  of  about  three  inches ;  after 
skinning  them,  mix  together  pepper,  salt,  a  little  chopped  parsley, 
and  mushrooms  ;  lay  your  fish  into  the  dish,  and  a  few  bits  of  butter, 

and  a  little  second  stock,  and  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  anchovies. 


910. — EGG   MINCE   PIES. 

Take  six  eggs,  boil  them  hard,  then  shred  them  very  small,  take 
twice  the  quantity  of  suet,  chop  it  very  fine,  well  wash  and  pick  a 
pound  of  currants,  shred  fine  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  add  them  with  the 
juice,  six  spoonfuls  of  sweet  wine,  mace,  nutmeg,  sugar,  a  very  small 
quantity  of  salt,  orange,  lemon,  and  citron,  candied.  Cover  with  a 
very  hght  paste. 

911. — EGO  PIE. 

Take  the  yolks  of  twelve  eggs  boiled  hard,  mince  them  very  small 
with  their  weight  in  beef  suet,  add  some  salt  beaten,  spice,  lemon 
peel,  rose-water,  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  dates  stoned  and 
sliced,  a  pound  of  currant^,  and  an  apple  shred  small ;  mix  all  toge- 
ther, fill  a  dish,  and  bake  it.     Serve  it  with  a  little  mace. 


PA8TBT.  24S 

912. — FSH  PIE. 

This  p»e  may  be  made  of  any  fish,  salmon,  pi^e,  tench,  eel,  or  any 
otiier.  Scale  your  fish  and  cut  it  into  pieces,  line  your  pie  dish  witfi 
CI  good  crust,  put  in  the  fish  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  little  salt^ 
■ome  bruised  spices,  and  a  layer  of  butter  on  the  top,  put  on  the  crust 
and  bake  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  when  done  remove  the  fat  and  put 
in  a  Tegetable  rngofit  made  thus : — stir  a  little  butter  and  flour  oyer 
Ihe  fire  until  a  pale  brown,  moisten  with  half  a  pint  of  sherry,  some 
soup  maigrc,  add  a  few  mushrooms,  a  little  salt,  and  a  bunch  of  herbs; 
let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  add  the  sofl  roes  of  carp  parboiled,  stew  a 
vonrter  of  an  hour  and  then  put  the  ragout  into  the  pies.  Any 
figetable  ragout  may  be  used. 

91d.^-K}AMB  PIB. 

.^Cnt  up  your  game,  and  use  trufiles  and  whole  mushrooms  if  you 
haye  them ;  the  sf'asonings  as  before,  but  no  hard  boiled  eggs,  and 
add  a  little  port  wine  with  your  gravy  or  stock.  If  you  take  the  bones 
Erom  the  birds  or  hare  use  some  forcemeat  as  layers  instead  as  in 
bnner  pics,  veal  and  steaks,  but  no  eggs ;  if  boned  you  will  prepare 
s  good  stock  from  the  bones,  making  the  pie  taste  of  the  very  essence 
of  the  game,  or  poultry,  or  whatever  it  may  consist  of. 


914.— GOOSEBERRY    TIE. 

Ifake  a  nice  puff  paste,  line  n  dish  wuth  it,  fill  with  gooseberries^ 
idd  sugar,  cover  it,  and  finish  the  same  as  all  other  pies. 


915.^-GIBLET  PIE. 

After  very  nicely  cleaning  goose  or  duck  giblets,  stew  them  with  a 
sail  quantity  of  water,  onions,  black  pepper,  faggot  of  sweet  herbs, 
till  netffly  done,  let  them  get  cold,  and  if  not  enough  to  fill  the  dish, 
lay  a  beef,\veal,  or  two  or  three  mutton  steaks  at  bottom  of  the  dish, 
vat  the  liquor  of  the  stew  to  bake  with  the  above,  and  when  the  pie 
IS  baked  pour  into  it  a  large  tea-cupful  of  cream. 

As  there  is  scarcely  any  preserve  or  fruit  but  what  can  be  made  into 
creams  as  well  as  coffee,  tea,  and  chocolate,  my  book  would  be  half 
fillad  were  I  to  enumerate  them  all,  and  make  a  repetition  each  time ; 
bit  I  have  endeavoured  as  plain  as  possible  to  lay  down  the  exact 
groundwork  and  finishing  of  a  few  which  will  suffice  for  a  hundred, 
only  giving  the  flavouring  of  what  may  bo  preferred. 


916.— IJinLET   PIK. 

Goose  giblets.  You  must  boil  them  just  a  short  time;  when  cold 
diop  them  in  small  pieces  and  cut  the  gizzanl,  heart,  and  liver  in 
lliecs,  stew  them  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  some  good  stock ;  when 
oold  line  your  dish  with  veal  cutlets,  or  rump  steaks;  use  hard 
boiled  eggs  to  this  pie,  then  season  up  as  before,  if  to  go  into  an 
imitation  raised  pie  thicken  the  giblets, — if  in  a  dish  garnish  as 
Mnivs. 

B  2 


244  PASTRY. 


917-— ORBBN  GOOBB  FIB. 

Bone  two  joung  green  geese  of  a  good  sise,  but  first  take  awaj 
every  plug  and  singe  them  nicely,  wash  them  clean,  and  season  them 
high  with  salty  pepper,  mace,  and  allspice.  Put  one  inside  the  othei 
and  press  them  as  close  as  you  can,  drawing  the  legs  inwards ;  put  a 
good  deal  of  butter  over  them,  and  bake  them  either  with  or  without 
crust,  if  with  the  latter  a  cover  to  the  dish  must  fit  dose  to  keep  in 
the  steam,  it  will  keep  long.  Gravy  jellied  may  be  added  when 
served. 

'   918. — ^HARB  PIB. 

Cut  a  hare  in  pieces,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmegs,  and  maosa 
put  it  into  a  jar  with  baJf  a  pound  of  butter,  cover  down  dose 
and  set  it  in  a  large  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  while  this  is  cooking 
make  a  forcemeat  thus:  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  scraped  bacoir 
two  onions,  a  glass  of  red  wine,  the  crumb  of  a  small  loa^  a  littl 
sweet  marjoram,  the  liver  minced  small,  season  with  pepper,  sal 
and  nutmeg,  mix  the  whole  together  with  the  yolks  of  three  cgjjp 
make  a  raised  crust,  at  the  bottom  of  which  lay  some  of  the  forcemek- 
then  some  of  the  hare,  cover  alternately,  until  you  have  used  aU  tla 
bare,  cover  in  the  pie,  and  bake  one  hour  and  a  half. 


919. — HERON   ME. 

Pick  and  singe  the  bird,  break  the  breast  bone,  and  lay  the  bird  S 
fioak  for  an  hour  in  warm  water  and  salt,  shred  some  oniona,  vcz 
sweet  herbs  very  fine,  make  them  into  balls  with  a  little  butfe0 
pepper  and  salt  them,  and  add  some  nutmeg  and  mace  in  powde^ 
put  some  of  these  into  the  heron,  lard  the  breast,  and  lay  bao^ 
on  the  wings;  make  a  raised  crust  in  which  place  the  bird,  w£'^ 
the  remainder  of  the  balls  round  it,  squeeze  in  some  lemon  joi^ 
cover  the  pie,  and  bake  it.  AVhen  done  raise  the  top,  pour  in  a  iit^ 
gravy,  and  let  it  stand  till  cold. 

920. — LAMB  PIE,  SAVOURY. 

Cut  the  lamb  into  moderate  sized  pieces,  season  well  with  pepp^ 
salt,  cloves,  mace,  and  nutmeg;  make  a  good  pulF  paste  crust,  put  th 
veal  into  it,  and  a  few  lambs'  stones  and  sweet  breads  well  season^ 
the  same  as  the  meat;  put  in  a  dozen* oysters,  some  forcemeat  bali^ 
some  yolks  of  hard  eggs  sliced,  and  tops  of  asparagus  about  tw< 
inches  long,  having  first  boiled  them  green,  put  butter  all  over  tbi 
pie,  cover  on  the  lid,  and  bake  for  one  hour  and  a  half  in  a  quid^ 
oven.  While  baking  take  a  pint  of  gravy,  the  oyster  liquor,  a  ^1  o' 
port  wine,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  mix  all  with  the  yolks  of  tbr^ 
eggs  well  beaten,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  in  a  saucepan,  keep  stiixiaf 
the  same  way  all  the  time,  when  it  boils  pour  it  into  the  pie,  J^ 
on  the  lid,  and  serve. 

921. — LARK  PIE  A   LA   PITHIYIERS. 

Take  six  dozen  larks,  pick  and  singe  them,  split  open  the  bacta 


PASTBT.  245 


t  the  insides  and  mince  them,  take  a  poand  and  a  half  of 
•ce^  pound  the  mince  with  it,  and  season  and  stuff  the  larks 
Make  a  raised  crust;  at  the  bottom  put  a  layer  of  the  farce, 
ch  lark  in  a  thin  slice  of  ham,  place  them  on  it  with  a  bit  of 
»Ter  all  with  slices  of  bacon  and  bay  leayes,  put  on  the  top 
id  bake  the  pie  for  two  hours  and  a  half,  and  then  let  it  stana 
Id. 


922. — ^LARK  BAISED  PIE. 

(  a  raised  crust  in  the  usual  way,  lay  some  farce  at  the  bottom 
ace  on  it  some  larks  boned,  fill  up  the  pie  with  them,  cover, 
e  it ;  when  it  is  done  remove  the  top  crust,  draw  off  the  fat, 
a  rich  ragout,  season  highly,  and  serve  open. 


923. LEMON  MIKCE  PIES. 

a  large  lemon,  squeeze  the  juice  from  it,  and  boil  the  outside 
(comes  soft  enough  to  beat  to  a  mash,  put  to  it  three  large 
four  'ounces  of  suet,  the  same  of  sugar,  and  half  a  pound  of 
;  add  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  and  some  candied  fruit  the 
for  other  pies.  Make  a  short  crust,  and  fill  the  patty>paii» 
sual  way* 

924. — ^LAMB  PIE. 

!  it  of  the  loin,  neck,  or  breast ;  the  breast  of  house  lamb  is 
he  most  delicate  things  that  can  be  eaten.  It  should  be  very 
leasoned  with  pepper,  and  salt,  the  bone  taken  out  but  not  the 
ind  a  small  quantity  of  jelly  gravy  put  in  hot,  but  the  pie 
lot  be  cut  till  cold,  put  two  spoonfuls  of  water  before  baking. 
.  lamb  makes  an  excellent  pic,  and  may  either  be  boned  or 
not  boned  is  perhaps  the  best :  season  it  with  pepper  and 
;  two  spoonfuls  of  water  before  baking,  and  as  much  gravy 
comes  from  the  oven. 

— Meat  pies  being  fat,  it  is  best  to  let  out  the  gravy  on  one 
id  put  it  in  a^ain  by  a  funnel  at  the  centre,  and  a  little 
added  free  of  fat. 


lUiCE  MEAT   FOR   CmtlSTMAS   PIES. — MISS  JANE  flfTRICKLAND*S 

RECEIPT. 

From  the  "  Home  Circle.'* 

e  pies  are  truly  English.  We  find  several  recipes  for  them 
I  Ilichard  II.'s  cookery  book, — ^a  curious  volume,  reprinted 
e  original  document  in  the  last  century,  but  compiled  by  that 
oate  monarch's  French  man-cook.  The  recipes  would  surprise 
ir  Soyer,  though  the  work  of  a  countryman  of  his  own. 
pies — for  that  was  the  name  by  which  the  modem  mince  pie 
a  known — were  of  several  kinds:  one  for  Lent  was  comi 
ind  chopped  seere  (eggs);  one  for  Christmas,  with  the  addition 


246  PASTBT. 

of  almonds,  is  much  the  same  as  the  excellent  one  now  presented  to  tiie 
readers  of  the  ^'  Home  Circle."  Take  equal  quantities  of  finely  shred 
and  chopped  heef  suet:  cold  roast  heef,  ivell  roasted;  cnrrantt,  washed^ 
dried,  and  picked;  and  raisins  stoned  and  chopped;  and  apples, 
pared,  cored,  and  chopped  fine.  Mix  all  these  prepared  ingredienti 
well  together,  and  sweeten  with  good  moist  Jamaica]  sugar,  to  taste  ; 
grate  off  with  loaf  sugar  the  peel  of  two  lemons,  and  grate  in  two 
nutmegs.  Having  well  mingled  all  these  materials  together,  add  to 
them  in  the  proportion  of  your  mince-meat,  thus — If  you  have  two 
pounds  of  every  thing — ^namely,  meat,  suet,  currants,  raisins,  and 
apples,  and  not  quite  two  pounds  of  sugar,  pour  over  the  mixture  a 
pmt  of  rum,  or  French  hrandy,  and  half  a  pint  of  raisin  wine.  If 
on  conscientious  principles  the  spirits  are  disliked,  raisin  wine,  of 
a  fine  quality,  or  Lisbon  must  he  added  ;  but  the  spirits  will  keep  it 
three  months.  Fill  a  jar  with  your  mince-meat,  cram  down  as  hard 
as  possible,  and  cover  with  a  close  fitting  lid,  tied  down  with  brown 
paper.  In  mixing  the  wine  and  spirits,  let  the  ingredients  all  receive 
their  part,  but  be  careful  whenever  you  take  out  your  meat,  to  ccam 
down  that  in  the  jar  with  a  spoon,  and  cover  close.  Line  your  tin 
dishes,  which  must  be  creased  or  buttered  inside,  either  with  puff 
paste  made  of  equal  weight  of  butter  and  flour,  or  with  a  family  past* 
made  with  beef  or  hog*s  lard  and  a  little  firesh  butter;  fill  with  minoa 
meat  heaped  up  in  the  middle  of  your  tin  dish,  cut  alices  of  candied 
orange,  lemon,  and  citron  peel,  and  put  on  your  meat,  cover  in  with 
paste ;  mark  prettily  with  a  knife,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven ;  heat 
them  for  table — for  which  the  tin  dishes  give  a  fiicility,  turn  into 
a  hot  dish,  and  serve.  These  pies  are  very  convenient  thmgs,  as  th^ 
are  quite  good  at  a  fortnight  old,  as  the  warming  tbem  makes  them 
quite  new  again.  Mince  pies  are  at  best  not  very  digestible,  therefore 
persons  of  delicate  habit  will  be  wise  to  relinquish  them  altogether. 
In  giving  this  old  English  dainty  to  children  great  caution  should  be 
observed — ^in  fact,  none  of  the  condiments  prepared  for  Christmas 
fare  are  particularly  wholesome,  but  the  turkey  and  roast  beef. 

It  was  formerly  the  custom  in  England  for  married  couples  to 
keep  the  anniversaries  of  their  wedding  days,  and  on  those  occasions, 
as  many  small  mince  pies  were  placed  on  one  dish,  on  the  table, 
as  the  host  and  hostess  had  been  married  years. 


926. MINCE  MEAT  MADE  AT  DUNCOMB  PARK. 

Four  pounds  of  fillet  of  beef  or  ox-tongue  chopped  fine,  four 
pounds  of  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  two  pounds 
of  apples,  three  pounds  of  raisins  chopped  fine,  six  pounds  of  currants 
well  washed,  and  picked,  and  dried,  the  peel  of  six  lemons  grated 
and  the  juice,  an  equal  quantity  of  cloves,  cinamon,  nutmegs,  and 
allspice,  pounded  and  sifted  fine;  an  equal  quantity  of  citron,  orange^ 
and  lemon  pee),  and  a  little  salt ;  one  pint  of  brandy,  the  same  of 
white  wine  and  port,  mix  aU  well  together  a  week  before  wanted  to 
use. 


PASTRY.  247 


927. ^MINCE   PIE. 

Take  two  pounds  of  scraped  beef  free  from  skin  and  strings,  four 
pounds  of  suet  picked  and  chopped,  six  pounds  of  currants  well 
demed  and  drieo,  three  pounds  of  chopped  apples,  the  peel  and  juice 
sf  two  lemofns,  a  pint  of  sweet  wine,  a  nutmeg,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
>f  doves,  the  same  of  mace,  and  the  same  of  pimento  finely  powdered ; 
nix  all  well  together,  put  it  into  a  pan,  and  keep  it  covered  in  a  dry, 
iool  place.  Put  a  little  citron,  orange,  and  lemon  peel  in  the  pies 
rlicn  made. 


d28.-^inNCB  PIES  WITHOUT  BIEAT. 

Take  of  currants,  apples  chopped  fine,  moist  sugar,  and  suet  well 
Slopped,  a  pound  of  each,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned  and 
iulp^ed  nmdl,  the  juice  of  four  Seville  oranges,  the  juice  of  two 
antfOM,  the  rind  of  one  shred  fine,  nutmeg  and  mace  to  suit  the 
Mdste,  and  a  glass  of  brandy.  Mix  all  together,  put  it  in  a  pan,  and 
cwp  it  doeely  tied  up. 


929. ^KUTTOK   PIE   MELE BRAISED. 

TUce  the  most  meaty  part  of  a  leg  of  mutton,  and  mince  with  it 
mj  game,  pooltiy,  or  even  meat  which  may  have  been  left  from  the 
pfenous  dinner.  Make  a  mince  likewise  of  some  ham,  one  pound 
tf  beef-tuet,  some  fat  bacon,  truffles,  pistachio  nuts,  the  yolks  of  five 
eggi  boiied  hard,  add  cinnamon,  mace,  nutmeg,  allspice,  and  pepper, 
mne  sweet  herbs,  and  two  glasses  of  brown  brandy ;  put  all  into  a 
good  raised  crust,  cover  it,  and  bake  it  in  an  oven  heated  to  a  mode- 
late  heat  for  five  hours  and  a  lialf.     Serve  cold. 


930. ^MUTTON   PIE. 

Out  steaks  firom  a  neck  or  loin  of  mutton  that  has  hung,  beat 
Siem  and  remove  some  of  the  fat,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
little  onion;  put  a  little  water  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish  and  a  little 
paste  on  the  edge,  then  cover  with  a  moderately  thick  paste,  or  raise 
imall  pies,  and  break  each  bone  in  two  to  shorten  it,  season  and 
cover  it  over,  pinching  the  edge.  When  tliey  come  out  of  the  oven 
pour  into  each  a  little  second  stock. 


931. — ^PARTBIDGE   OK  PIOEOK   PIE. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  your  dish  with  slices  of  veal  and  bacon,  chop 
some  parsley,  onion,  and  mushroom,  and  if  you  have  it,  truffles ; 
iprinkle  it  all  over  the  veal.  If  your  birds  are  boned,  season  the  inside 
with  the  same,  adding  some  fine  bread  crumbs,  lay  them  on  the  veal, 
then  cover  the  birds  with  slices  of  fat  bacon,  put  in  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  good  stock. 

932.-^PABTRIDGB  FIB — 8IMFLB. 

Pick  and  nsge  four  partridges,  cut  off  the  legs  at  the  knee  and 


248  PASTfiY. 


giye  them  a  good  seasoning  of  pepper,  salt,  chopped  parsley,  thyme, 
and  mushrooms;  lay  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish  a  Teal  cutlet  and  a 
slice  of  ham,  and  then  put  in  the  partridges,  add  half  a  pint  of  a 
good  poultry  consomm^,  line  the  edge  of  the  dish  vfiih  a  puff  paste, 
corer  it  with  paste  of  the  same  kind,  brush  it  oyer  with  ^;g  and  bake 
one  hour. 


933« — ^A  PERIGOBD  PIE. 

Make  a  forcemeat,  chiefly  of  green  truffles,  a  small  quantity  of 
sweetherbs,  parsley,  aud  shalots,  and  the  liver  of  all  game,  and  some 
fat  livers,  fat  bacon  a  good  quantity,  a  few  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and 
salt,  and  cayenne  pepper,  the  flesh  of  wild  or  tame  fowls.  IjEurd  the 
breast  of  pheasants,  partridges,  woodcocks,  moor-game,  or  whatever 
birds  you  have,  add  a  little  more  in  jour  seasoning,  make  a  good 
thick  crust  to  hold  all  the  above  ingredients,  or  a  dish  ¥rill  do ;  line 
the  case  with  good  fresh  fat  bacon,  cover  that  with  forcemeat,  then  pat 
the  different  colours  of  game  and  fowl  upon  it  with  whole  green,  but 
pared  truffles,  then  more  forcemeat,  and  so  on  until  full,  but  not 
press  them  down,  let  them  lie  lightly  one  on  the  other,  or  they  may 
not  all  get  sufficiently  baked ;  at  the  top  of  all  cover  with  good  hX 
bacon,  and  over  that  a  common  paste  crust.  Bake  it  in  a  slow  fiie ; 
it  will  take  a  long  time  to  soak  it  well ;  before  cold,  add  some  good 
jellied  stock  made  from  the  bones,  &c. 

If  you  wish  for  any  birds  whole  in  it,  they  must  first  be  boned  and 
filled  with  truffles  and  forcemeat,  and  kept  in  the  middle,  the  rest 
all  round  them. 


934. PIGEON   PIE. 

Proceed  in  the  same  way  as  No.  953,  but  instead  of  ham  at  bottom 
of  dish  put  a  good  beef  or  rump  steak;  truss  your  pigeons^as  for  stewing, 
the  legs  pressed  in  the  sides ;  if  you  are  short  of  pigeons  cut  them  in 
half  and  use  more  steak,  do  not  forget  the  eggs  and  the  former  sea- 
sonings; put  a  slice  of  fat  ham  on  the  top  of  the  last  pigeons. 
If  you  bone  the  pigeons  fill  the  insides  with  veal  forcemeat,  put  the 
feet  of  the  pigeons  to  ornament  the  outside;  pour  when  baked 
some  good  stock  into  it  while  hot. 


935. PIGEON    PIE. 

Make  a  little  batter,  and  put  into  it  some  chopped  parsley,  lemon, 
thyme,  and  a  few  mushrooms ;  stew  for  a  few  minutes  in  this  batter 
half  a  dozen  young  pigeons  with  pepper  and  salt  in  their  insides, 
torn  them,  aud  when  they  begin  to  fry  add  enough  consonune  to 
coyer  them,  in  which  they  must  stew  until  well  done,  remove  them 
firom  the  fire  to  cool.  Ifave  made  in  the  meanwhile  a  good  puff 
paste,  a  portion  of  which  roll  out  and  line  the  edge  of  the  dish,  put 
m  the  pigeons  with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  boiled  hard,  pour  over 
them  half  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  stewed,  season  vrith  pepper, 
and  salt,  and  cover  with  the  top  crust ;  ornament  according  to  taste, 
leaving  a  hole  in  the  centre ;  brush  it  lightly  oyer  with  egg,  and  bake 


PA8THT.  24S^ 


it  in  an  oren  of  a  moderate  heat;  do  not  let  it  brown  too  much. 
When  it  is  done  you  may  add  a  little  butter  sauce  to  the  remaining 
half  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  pigeons  were  stewed ;  make  it  rery 
hoi,  and  pour  it  on  the  pie. 

Serre  hot  either  as  a  side  dish  or  as  a  remore. 


936.— PIE   HOT  RAISED,   ANGLO-FBAIT^AISE. 

Take  the  fillets  from  four  loins  of  mutton,  trim  and  cut  them  into 
aoollops,  season  well  with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  dissolve  slowly 
tiuree  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  the  moment  it  becomes 
liquid  put  into  it  two  spoonfuls  of  parsley,  four  of  mushrooms,  the 
•ame  of  truffles,  a  shalot,  all  shred  fine.  Make  a  raised  crust  of 
wliateYer  size  and  form  you  please,  and  having  soaked  the  fillets  in 
the  butter  and  herbs,  lay  them  on  the  pie  en  couronne;  fill  up 
the  centre  with  mushrooms  minced  truffles,  artichoke  bottoms,  veal 
fweetbreads;  pour  the  remainder  of  the  butter  and  herbs  over;  cover 
them  with  two  bay  leaves,  slices  of  bacon ;  the  lid  and  the  walls  or 
tides  decorate  tastefully,  dorez  and  set  it  in  a  brisk  oven ;  when  you 
&Dd  the  top  IB  sufficiently  done  cut  it  o£P,  and  lay  in  its  place  three 
or  four  sheets  of  paper,  and  put  the  pie  in  the  oven;  an  hour  and 
a  half  is  the  time  required  for  baking.  As  soon  as  done  take  out  the 
hacon  and  bay  leaves,  and  pour  in  a  demi-glaze  of  mutton,  mixed 
with  an  essence  of  truffles  and  mushrooms  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon ; 
glaze  the  crust,  and  serve  quite  hot. 


937. — PIE    HOT   RAISED,    A   LA   MONGLAS. 

Soak  two  fine  fiit  livers  in  warm  water  till  they  are  quite  clean; 
then  set  them  on  the  fire  in  cold  water,  when  near  boiling  take  out 
the  livers  and  throw  them  into  cold  water  again,  and  when  cool  cut 
them  into  scollops,  season  them  well,  and  having  melted  a  quarter  of 
m  pound  of  butter,  the  same  of  grated  bacon,  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
pursley,  two  of  mushrooms,  four  of  truffles,  all  shred  fine,  a  small 
piece  of  shalot  blanched  and  minced,  salt  and  spice  to  your  taste, 
put  the  livers  into  this,  set  it  on  the  fire  for  ten  minutes;  then  set  it 
by,  and  when  cold  trim  the  pieces,  take  about  a  fourth  part  of  them 
with  the  trimming,  pound  them,  mix  some  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
good  fowl  farce.  Having  raised  a  crust  in  the  usual  way,  line  the  inside 
with  the  fiirce,  lay  the  livers  in  proper  order  in  it,  pour  in  the  herbs, 
and  place  on  the  whole  two  bay  leaves  and  slices  of  bacon,  lay  on 
Ae  top  and  finish  as  above  directed.  When  done  pour  in  a  sauce 
Bade  as  follows : — ^Take  the  pounded  liver  that  was  set  aside,  put  it 
in  a  saucepan  with  a  spoonful  of  espagnole,  make  them  hot,  and 
haifing  strained,  add  to  them  ladlefuls  of  espagnole  worked  up  with 
a  few!  consomme,  some  Madeira  wine,  and  four  truffles  minced, 
this  reiy  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 


8. PIE    BAISBD    HOT,    A   tA    I 

Make  a  raised  cnut  of  any  form  jon  please ;  line  the  inude  witk 
slices  of  bacon,  and  fill  it  up  irith  beef  suet  chopped  fine;  decorata 
the  exterior  of  the  pie  to  your  fancy,  dorez  and  put  U  in  a  qwdt 
oven  for  an  hour;  then  take  it  out,  and  nhen  it  is  a  little  cooled  talce 
out  all  the  contents,  half  fill  it  with  fotrl  or  game,  quenelle,  and  finisk 
vith  ragout  of  lambs'  siveethreads,  cocka'  comb<,  and  kidneys,  mttsh- 
tooms,  truffles,  artichoke  bottoms,  sis  cray  fish,  same  of  cray  SA 
tails,  pouT  in  some  good  cspagnole  worked  up  with  a  fowl  conaonun^ 
flavoured  with  tiufles,  some  Khenish  or  dry  Madeira  wine,  glaxe 
them  lightly,  and  serre  aa  cjiuckly  after  it  is  baked  as  you  can. 

939.— RB  ItAISEP  ROT,  RCSSUK. 

Take  a  salmon  and  a  liTcr,  cut  them  into  scollops,  and  dminec 
loth,  but  separatdy,  in  some  butter,  with  shred  parsley,  mushroom^ 
truffles,  sbalols,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg ;  mince  the  yolks  of  a  dozen 
hard  eggs.  Make  a  raised  crust  in  the  usual  manner,  put  in  a  layer  of 
riee  previously  boiled  iti  chicken  broth  but  cold,  as  should  be  all  the 
materials,  on  this  lay  some  of  the  scollops  of  salmon,  on  which  strew 
a  layer  of  egg,  then  a  layer  of  lirer,  strew  the  egg  then  the  salmon 
again,  and  so  on  till  your  pie  is  full ;  then  pour  in  the  butter  and 
herbs,  cOTer  the  whole  witli  rice,  and  finish  the  pie  according  to 
the  aboTe  direction*. 

940. — PIE  KAiaiD,  TO  BB  SEBVBU  HOT. 

Make  a  stiff'  paste  as  directed  for  raised  ptM,  vhich  mix  widi 
warm  water;  when  well  noised  together  roll  it  out  tbin,  cut  a  pieee 
oat  for  the  bottom  and  two  for  tlie  sides,  according  te  the  shape  at 
the  dish;  eg?  the  edges  yon  intend  to  join,  and  pre«  them  w^ 
twether,  so  that  the  joining  may  not  be  seen;  diape  it,  gamA  it 
with  leaves  or  featooaa,  according  to  your  taste,  fill  it  nearly  to  tbt 
top  with  bran,  egg  it,  and  let  it  be  baked  in  a  nodeiate  oven;  wbea 
done  of  a  light  colour  turn  out  the  bran,  and  set  it  ready  for  what 
yoD  intend  to  put  in,  which  may  be  cutlets  of  mutton  stewed  with 
vegetables,  partridge  farced  mth  a  brown  sauce,  chkkcna  cut  up,  a 
lagout  in  a  hrown  sauce,  ttewed  carp  or  eels. 

941.— FORK    PIE. 

Cut  a  piece  of  the  loin  of  pork  into  chops,  remove  the  rind  and 


bone,  ent  it  into  pieca.  Mason  vrell  with  pepper  and  fait,  corer  with 
paff-put«,  bolte  the  pie.  Witen  readj  to  be  Kired,  pal  in  M>m« 
oiUil^  with  the  essence  of  two  onions  mixed  with  a  little  mustard. 

942. — PORE  PIKB  TO   KAT   CMLD. 

fiaise  common  boiled  crust  into  either  a  round  or  oval  form  aa 
jon  chooM,  have  ready  the  trimmings  and  small  bitt  of  pork  cut  off 
when  a  hog  is  killed,  and  if  these  are  not  enough  take  the  meat  off  the 
■weet  bone,  beat  it  well  with  a  roUingpin,  season  with  cayenne  and 
white  pepper  and  salt,  and  keep  the  tat  and  lean  separate,  put  it  in 
lajreiB,  qnite  dose  up  to  the  top,  lay  on  the  lid,  cut  the  edge  smooth 
nKnid  and  pinch  it,  bake  it  in  a  slow  oven  as  the  meat  is  rery  solid. 
See  **  Paste  for  raised  Piea." 

The  pork  may  be  put  into  a  common  dish  with  a  rety  pLiin  crust, 
ani  be  qnite  as  good ;  obaerve  to  put  no  bone  or  water  into  pork  pie, 
the  outside  of  the  pieces  will  be  hard  unless  they  are  cut  small  and 
jneawd  close. 


943. — K  A  IS  ED  PIK. 

Take  the  bones  out  of  a  pheasant,  two  partridge*,  one  bare,  two 
nUiils ;  bare  ready  some  good  forcemeat,  with  truffles  and  mtuh- 
Tomns  ;  get  a  stewpan ;  and  suppose  you  have  the  case  of  your  pie, 
line  your  stewpan  with  a  thick  slice  of  fat  ham,  haTe  your  birds 
■tnffied  with  good  forcemeat,  and  truffles,  and  mushrooms,  lay  them 
alternately,  white  and  brown  meat,  with  a  boiled  tongue  in  the 
middle.  After  being  trimmed  and  got  ready,  use  your  seasoning 
between  each  byer  as  before,  when  all  in  eorer  it  with  slices  of  6t 
ham,  put  in  a  little  second  stock,  corer  your  stewpan  and  put  it  in  a 
dow  oTen  to  ttcw  for  two  or  three  hours  until  well  baked.  Before  it 
B  cold  place  it  tightly,  aa  it  now  is,  into  the  prepared  baked  raised 
pic  case,  but  first  remoTe  the  hot  iat  ham,  then  strain  off  what 
remains  in  the  stewpan,  take  off  nil  the  fat,  season  it  a  little  more, 
and  add  a  little  more  good  consomme,  and  boil  it  down  a  little  with 
two  glasses  of  port  wine,  then  put  it  all  in  by  degrees,  gently  raising 
the  meat  with  your  knife  to  sink  well  in  amongst  the  meat,  put  to 
get  cold,  and  when  cold  put  either  aspic  jelly  or  consomme  on  the  top. 

Ton  can  place  this  all  in  the  earthen  or  stone  imitation  pie  atiapc; 
pmish  with  parsley,  and  be  sure  to  press  the  meat  when  not  tightlj 
m  the  dish,  that  it  may  cat  firm  when  cold. 

944. — BAW  raEAKAST  ns  hot. 
Hmg  two  pheaaants  fire  dnjs,  pick,  noge,  and  cat  them  up  and 


252  PASTRY. 


parboil  them  with  some  sweet  herbs,  make  a  raised  crust  four  inches 
high  and  seven  round,  let  it  incline  inwards  at  the  middle  all  round, 
so  that  the  top  and  bottom  are  wider  than  the  sides;  upon  the  bottom 
and  sides  spread  a  good  godiveau  or  farce  with  two  truffles  minced 
small,  upon  this  lay  the  legs  and  back  of  the  pheasants,  add  fire 
truffles  cut  in  half,  oyer  these  lay  the  fillets  and  ttreast,  then  another 
layer  of  truffles,  then  other  portions  of  the  bird,  and  continue 
alternately  with  truffles,  until  the  whole  of  the  birds  are  in  the  pie ; 
pour  upon  them  the  herbs,  &c.,  in  which  they  were  cooked,  lay  on 
two  bay  leaves  and  corer  ^vith  slices  of  bacon,  place  a  paste  over  the 
top  ornamented  to  taste,  dorez,  i.  e.,  wash  over  with  well  beaten 
yolk  of  egg  and  put  it  into  a  brisk  oren,  as  soon  as  it  is  nicely 
coloured  remore  the  top,  and  cut  four  pieces  of  paper  nine  inches 
round,  put  them  in  the  place  of  the  lid  of  the  pie,  let  it  bake  an  hour 
and  a  half,  drain  off  the  fat  and  pour  in  an  espa^ole  with  some 
minced  truffles,  glaze  the  crust  and  serve  as  quicidy  after  taking 
from  the  oren  as  possible. 

945. ^RABBIT   PIE. 

Cut  into  quarters  a  couple  of  young  rabbits ;  bruise  in  a  mortar  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon,  with  the  livers  of  the  rabbits,  pepper 
and  salt,  a  little  parsley  cut  small,  mace,  and  two  or  three  leaves  of 
sweet  basil ;  beat  them  up  fine,  line  your  dish  with  a  nice  crust,  put 
a  layer  of  the  seasoning  at  the  bottom,  and  then  put  in  the  rabbit ; 
pound  some  more  bacon  in  the  mortar,,  mix  it  with  some  fresh  bntter, 
lay  it  over  the  rabbits,  and  cover  with  thin  slices  of  bacon ;  now  put 
on  the  paste  to  form  the  top,  and  then  place  it  in  the  oven.  It  will 
take  two  hours  to  bake.  When  done,  take  off  the  top  of  the  pie, 
remove  the  bacon,  skim  off  the  fat,  and,  if  required,  add  some  rich 
veal  or  mutton  gravy. 

946. — SNIPK   PIE. 

Bone  three  snipes,  fill  them  with  a  light  forcemeat,  adding  the 
trails  and  some  truffles  pounded;  put  the  birds  in  a  deep  dish,  with  a 
small  layer  of  forcemeat  all  round ;  cover  with  a  puff-paste,  egg  it, 
ornament  it  to  fancy,  and  put  it  into  the  oven.  When  about  tliree 
parts  done,  lift  up  the  lid,  pour  in  some  good  cuUis,  a  glass  and  a 
naif  of  Madeira.  Season  with  cayenne  pepper  and  lemon  juice,  cover 
down,  and  finish  baking. 


947. — SOLE    PIE. 

Skin  and  cut  two  pounds  of  eels,  boil  them  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
water  until  quite  tender,  bone  them,  and  put  the  flesh  into  the  liquor 
in  which  they  were  boiled,  adding  a  blade  of  mace  and  a  little  salt ; 
boil  them  until  the  liquor  is  reduced  to  the  fourth  of  a  pint;  strain 
and  chop  the  eels  very  fine,  and  with  it  a  little  lemon  peel,  a  little 
salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  a  few  bread  crumbs,  parsley,  and  an  an- 
chovy, minced;  mix  all  with  four  ounces  of  butter,  and  you  will  have 
a  delicious  forcemeat  Put  it  into  a  pie  dish,  cut  the  meat  &am  a  pair 


of  lem  loleB,  ]ay  it  upon  the  forcemeat,  pour  in  the  liquor  ii 
tlu  eels  were  Btewed,  coTer  with  puff-patte,  and  bake  it  a  nice 
minutes  will  suffice,  if  the  fire  ia  steady. 


948. — STAFPOBDSIIIBK   GOOGE  FIBS 

.An  m&de  with  birds  prepared  and  seasoned  as  for  green  goose 
pie.  A  goose  is  to  be  outivard  succeeded  hj  a  turkej,  duck,  fowl, 
and  lesser  birds,  tongue  or  force-meat,  (force-meat  raaj  fill  up  the 
■paces  between  the  crust  and  fowls,  and  be  omitted  within) ;  the 
onst  should  be  ornamented,  and  the  top  hare  a  flower  by  which  to 
lift  it,  as  it  must  not  be  cut  but  be  kept  to  cover  the  pie. 

A  smaller  and  less  expensive  pie  may  be  made  without  the  goose 
nd  turkey. 

949.— squill  PIE. 
Cut  apples  as  for  other  pies,  and  lay  them  in  rows  with  mutton 
diops,  shred  onions,   and  sprinkle  it  among  them,  and  also  some 
mgnr. 

950. — TB,\CH  PIE. 

At  the  bottom  of  a  dish  put  a  layer  of  butter,  emte  in  some 
nutmeg,  add  pepper,  salt,  and  mace^  lay  in  the  tench,  cover  tliem 
^th  butter,  pour  in  two  wine  glasses  of  red  wine,  or  one  gloss  of 
^riaa  and  one  of  water,  cover  with  a  light  paste,  and  when  done  pour 
ia  Knne  melted  butter,  enriched  with  some  good  gravy. 


951. — VEAL  OR  CIIICKE.V  AXD  PARELBY  PIE. 

Cut  tome  slices  from  the  leg  or  neck  of  Teal;  if  the  leg  from 
41iout  the  knuckle.  Season  them  with  salt,  scald  some  picked  parsley. 
4ad  squeeze  it  dry,  chop  it  a  liitle  and  lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  the 
4ish,  tiien  put  the  meat,  &c.,  in  layers  ;  fill  the  dish  with  new  milk, 
but  not  ao  high  as  to  touch  the  crust ;  cover  it,  and  when  baked  pour 
Vkat  a  little  of  the  milk,  and  put  in  half  a  pint  of  good  scalded  cream. 
C]!hicken  may  be  cut  up,  skinned,  and  made  the  same  way. 

952. TEAL    OlITB    PIE. 

Make  the  olivet  as  directed  before,  put  them  Tomid  the  disb, 
making  the  middle  highest;  fill  it  almost  with  water,  and  corer  it. 
Add  pvtj,  cream,  flour,  and  mushrooms  when  baked. 


264  PA8TEY. 

953. — ^VBAL  PIE  IN  A  DISH. 

First  of  all  get  all  your  ingredients  ready,  namely,  Hop^  parsley, 
shalots,  or  onions,  mushrooms,  pepper  and  salt,  mint,  four  eggs  boiled 
hard,  a  little  good  second  stock,  now  your  paste.  After  you  haTe 
made  patties  or  any  first  or  second  course  pastry,  the  paste  that  remains 
will  do,  be  sure  to  put  an  edging  of  paste  to  your  dish;  first  lay  a 
layer  of  lean  and  fat  ham,  or  mild  bacon,  then  sprinkle  it  orer  wiik 
the  prepared  ingredients,  then  a  layer  of  real,  and  the  fisre  ^[uarter  of 
one  egg^  then  another  layer  of  ham  and  parsnips  as  before,  and  keep  on 
repeating  it  until  quite  full,  letting  the  middle  be  much  higher  than 
the  sides;  put  a  little  drop  of  second  stock  into  it,  bake  it  m  a  slow 
oven ;  be  sure  and  cut  a  nole  in  the  top,  and  if  you  like  ornament  it 
with  loares  of  paste;  after  egging  the  top,  well  notch  the  edge.  Pour 
some  good  white  stock  into  it  when  done  and  hot. 


954. — ^TO   MAKE   AN   ALMOND  PUDDING. 

Pound  in  your  mortar  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  add 
a  table-spoonful  of  water  when  you  are  pounding,  take  it  out  of  the 
mortar;  nave  ready  broken  seven  eggs,  leaving  out  five  of  the  whites, 
add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar,  mix  all  lightly  together;  cut 
in  small  «dice  a  little  candy,  orange,  and  lemon  peel,  butter  and 
paper  a  plain  mould,  or  one  that  will  open ;  bake  it  in  a  modecate 
oven. 


955. — ALMOND  PUDDING. 

Mix  a  pound  of  grated  bread,  a  nutmeg,  half  a  pound  of  butter,^ 

and  the  yolks  of  six  eggs;  boil  a  pint  of  cream  slightly  colourecLfl 
with  saffron,  put  in  the  eggs  and  a  little  flour,  knead  it  well,  then  add-B 
a  pound  of  blanched  sweet  almonds  pounded  with  a  little  rose-water  S- 
beat  the  ingredients  till  well  mixed,  and  boil  for  half  an  hour 
a  buttered  cloth. 


956. — ^ALMOND  PUDDING^  BAKED. 

Take  four  ounces  of  crumbs  of  bread,  slice  or  grate  into  a  pint  anc 
a  half  of  cream  ;  beat  half  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds  to  a  past^- 
with  two  spoonfuls  of  orange  flower  water;  beat  up  the  whites  ot^ 
eight  eggs  and  the  yolks  of  four ;  mix  all  these  well,  add  a  qoartei^^ 
of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and  stir  in  three  ounces  of  melted  bntter/^"^ 
put  it  over  the  fire  and  keep  stirring  until  it  becomes  thick,  place  i^ 
sheet  of  paper  at  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bak<^^ 
half  an  hcur. 


957. AMBER    PUDDING. 

Put  a  pound  of  butter  with  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  powdere<E^- 
sugar  into  a  saucepan ;  when  melted  and  well  mixed  add  the  yolks  ot*^^ 
fifteen  eggs  beaten,  colour  and  flavour  it  with  candied  oumge 
to  a  paste.  Fill  with  the  above  a  dish  lined  with  pastOi  plaes  a 
over,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 


PA6TBT.  255 

958. — APRICOT  PUBDTNa 

Whip  up  a  pint  of  milk,  or  cream,  six  eggs,  four  table-spoon- 
fuls of  fine  flour,  a  little  salt,  and  a  small  portion  of  cinnamon. 
Rub  the  apricots  through  a  sieve,  and  add  enough  of  the  pulp  to 
make  the  whole  rather  thicker  than  hatter,  sweeten,  pour  it  into 
a  buttered  basin,  and  boil  an  hour  and  a  quarter ;  senre  with  melted 
butter. 


959. ^BATTER   PUDDTNG. 

Put  into  a  stewpan  six  spoonfuls  of  flour,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  mix  them  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  new 
milk,  and  stir  in  six  eggs  beaten;  pour  the  batter  into  a  well-buttered 
basin  or  mould,  tie  it  tight  with  a  cloth,  and  boil  it  two  hours  and  a 
half.  Or  it  may  be  baked — three  quarters  of  an  hour  will  be  suffi- 
cient.    Stoned  raisins  or  currants  may  be  added. 

960. — BATTER   PUDDING   WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Take  six  spoonfuls  of  fiour,  mix  it  with  a  small  portion  of  a  quart 
of  milk,  then  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt| 
two  tear-spoonfuls  of  grated  ginger,  and  two  of  tincture  of  saffix>n ; 
mix  together  well,  and  boil  it  an  nour.  Raisins  or  currant;^  may  be 
added. 

961. BATTER   PUDDING,    WITH    OR   WITHOUT  SUGAR. 

Beat  up  six  eggs,  put  about  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  basin,  stir  in  by 
degrees  aoout  half  a  pound  of  flour,  add  a  little  salt,  mix  in  your 
eggs  with  a  gill  of  cream,  strain  all  through  a  yery  fine  siere  or 
tammy,  butter  your  mould,  and  steam  it  as  all  other  things  are 
steamed,  tie  a  cloth  over  the  mould.  ScmhI  up  a  sweet  sauce,  or 
melted  butter,  or  hot  currant  jelly;  if  suet,  add  to  your  eggs  some 
nfiMd  sugar. 

962. BARLEY   PUDDING, 

To  a  pound  of  pearl  barley  well  Avashed  add  three  quarts  of  new  milk, 
kaif  a  pound  of  double  refined  sugar,  and  a  nutmeg  grated ;  then 
bake  it  in  a  deep  pan.  Remove  it  from  the  oyen,  beat  up  six  eggs, 
mix  well  together,  pour  it  into  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  it  again  for 
an  hour. 


963. — BEEP   STEAK   PUDDING. 

Beat  tome  steaks  with  a  rolling-pin,  season  them,  and  roll  them 
pieces  of  fiat  between — if  liked,  a  little  shred  onion  may  be 
added.  Line  a  basin  with  a  paste  of  suet,  put  in  the  rollers  of  steak, 
corer  the  basin  with  a  crust,  press  the  edges  to  keep  the  gravy  in, 
corer  with  a  cloth  tied  close,  and  boil  the  pudding  slowly  for  some 
length  of  time. 

964. — BISCUIT   PUDDING. 

Poor  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  oyer  three  Naples  biscuits  grated;  oorer 


256  PASTRY. 

it  dose,  and  when  cold  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  the  whites  of  two, 
a  small  quantity  of  hrandy,  half  a  spoonful  of  flour,  nutmeg,  and 
some  sugar.    Boil  it  in  a  hasin  for  an  hour. 

965. — BRANDY  PUDDING. 

Take  some  dried  cherries  or  jar-raisins  stoned  and  line  a  mould 
with  them,  add  some  thin  slices  of  French  roll,  and  a  layer  of  rata— 
fias  or  macaroons,  then  repeat  the  layers  of  fruit,  rolls,  and  cakes,  tilL 
the  mould  is  full,  pouring  in  at  intervals  two  glasses  of  hrandy.  Bea^ 
four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separately,  add  to  them  a  pint  of  milk  oc 
cream  slightly  sweetened,  half  a  nutmeg,  and  the  rmd  of  half  aii 
lemon  grated,  pour  it  into  the  mould,  and  when  it  has  penetrated  this 
solid,  flour  a  cloth,  tie  it  tight  over,  and  hoil  an  hour.  Be  careful  tc^ 
keep  the  mould  the  right  side  upwards. 

966. — BREAD   PUDDING. 

Soak  two  or  three  French  rolls,  cut  into  slices  in  a  pint  of  cream, 
or  good  milk,  add  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  heaten,  some  susar,  orange 
flower  water,  three  pounded  macaroons,  and  a  glass  of  white  wine  ; 
tie  it  up  in  a  hasin  or  buttered  cloth,  put  the  pudding  in  hoiling 
water,  and  let  it  hoil  for  half  an  hour.     Serre  with  wine  sauce. 


967. — BREAD   (brown)    PUDDING. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  stale  brown  hread  grated,  the  same  quantitr 
of  currants  ana  shred  suet,  and  a  little  nutmeg  and  sugar,  adi 
four  eggs,  a  spoonful  of  hrandy,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  cream ;  hofl 
in  a  basin  or  cloth  full  three  hours. 


968. — BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING. 

Take  a  penny  loaf,  cut  it  into  thin  slices  of  hread  and  butter,  place 
a  layer  of  them  in  a  buttered  dish,  sprinkle  currants  on  them,  and 
repeat  the  layers  of  bread  and  butter  and  currants  till  the  dish  is  full 
Beat  up  four  eggs  with  a  pint  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  nutmeg,  and 
sugar,  and  pour  over  the  pudding.  Cover  with  a  puff'-paste,  and 
bake  it  for  half  an  hour. 

969. — ^DREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDDTG. 

Prepare  as  No.  999,  but  no  paste  rim,  cut  thin  bread  and  butter, 
or  French  rolls,  cut  off  the  crust,  and  trim  the  bread  neatly,  sprinkling 
currants,  well  washed,  instead  of  the  peels,  as  in  the  former :  pour 
your  milk  and  eggs,  by  degrees,  over  it,  and,  as  it  soaks  in,  addj[more, 
make  it,  in  baking,  a  nice  light  brown. 

970.— CABINET  PUDDING. 

Put  on  to  boil  about  a  pint  of  milk,  add  into  it  the  paring'of  a 
lemon  free  from  the  white,  a  piece  of  cinnamon,  four  or  fire  cloves^ 
and  a  bay  leaf,  sugar  till  the  flavour  of  all  is  abstracted;  break  into  a 
basin  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ratafia  biscuits,  and  eight  or  nine 


PASTRY.  257 


sponge  biscuits,  or  some  stale  saYou^  cake ;  then  pour  upon  them 
some  brandy  and  a  little  white  wine.  Break  fire  eggs  into  it  and  well 
mix  it,  then  let  the  milk  cool,  strain  it  to  it ;  butter  a  plain  mould 
well  and  ornament  it  with  dried  cherries,  steam  it  as  former  pudding 
for  an  hour  and  a  half,  make  a  good  sauce  with  brandy  and  wine  in 
it,  and  a  gill  of  cream,  and  a  little  lemon  juice. 


971.— CABINET  PUDDING. 

Should  jou  not  hare  at  command  the  things  named  in  the  aboTe, 
use  the  crumb  of  the  lightest  bread  you  have,  in  that  case  strain  the 
boiling  milk  upon  the  bread,  blanch  and  chop  very  fine  and  poimd 
a  few  oitter  almonds  and  put  to  it,  then  wine  and  brandy,  eggs,  &c., 
use  some  raisins  stoned  to  ornament  the  mould  mth,  steam  it,  and 
use  sauce  as  before. 


972. CUSTARD  PUDDING. 

Take  a  pint  of  cream,  six  eggs  well  beaten,  two  spoonfiils  of  flour, 
lialf  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  salt  and  sugar  tu  taste ;  mix  them  together, 
butter  a  cloth  and  pour  in  the  batter,  tie  it  up,  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
ptn  of  boiling  w-ater  and  boil  it  an  hour  and  a  half.  Serve  with 
melted  batter.  ~ 


973. CUSTAUD  PUDDING. 

Prepare  your  milk  as  in  No.  1119,  add  to  your  eggs  two  good  spoon- 
fills  of  flour,  and  a  glass  of  brandy,  or  a  stick  of  vanilla  or  noyeau;  the 
Tuiilla  you  will  boil  in  the  milk.  When  all  is  cold  and  strained 
break  two  eggs  and  add  to  it ;  butter  a  plain  mould,  steam  it  as  other 
puddings ;  pour  hot  currant  jelly  over  it,  or  apricot  jam.  If  baked 
pat  a  pu£f  paste  rim  to  the  dish. 


974.^-CHARLOTTE. 

Cut  a  sufficient  number  of  thin  slices  of  white  bread  to  cover  the 
bottom  and  line  the  sides  of  a  baking  dish,  first  rubbing  it  thickly 
vith  butter ;  put  thin  slices  of  apples  into  the  dish  in  layers  till  the 
didi  is  full,  strewing  butter  and  sugar  between.  In  the  meantime 
fOftk  as  many  thin  slices  of  bread  as  will  cover  the  whole  in  warm 
milk,  over  which  place  a  plate  and  a  weight  to  keep  the  bread  close 
upon  the  apples ;  let  it  bake  slowly  for  three  hours ;  for  a  middle 
soed  dish  you  should  use  half  a  pound  of  butter  for  the  whole. 


975.— CHARLOTTE — AN  ENTREMET. 

Cover  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  baking  dish,  thickly  buttered, 
with  thin  slices  of  white  bread;  fill  up  the  dish  with  slices  of  apples 
cut  thin,  stowing  sugar  and  pieces  of  butter  between.  Cover  the 
wliole  with  thin  slices  of  bread  previously  soaked  in  warm  milk ; 
fhee  a  plate  and  a  weight  on  the  top  to  keep  the  bread  close  upon 
ike  apjdes  and  bake  it  dowly  for  three  hours ;  half  a  pound  of  butter 
wiD  be  required  for  a  middling  sized  dish. 

8 


258  PA6TKT. 

I)7&— CIUKUnTK  A  LA  TKUfgAXgX 

Is  made  m  the  lame  manner  as  the  Fariaieiuie,  witii  the  exception 
that  croquettes  Sl  la  Farisienne,  and  a  cream  blanc  mange  are  lued 
instead  of  the  Pestachio  biscuits  and  fiomage  baTaroia. 

d77-— CHAHLOITB  1  l'iTALIBNIIE. 

Cut  in  pieces  some  rum  Eenoiies  like  spoon  biscuits,  to  make  a 
small  entremet ;  line  a  mould,  a  plain  round  one,  with  them ;  fill  the 
interionvith  mm  cream  plombiere  in  which  you  have  pot  four  drams 
(tf  clarified  isinglass,  cover  the  cream  with  genoisea  and  finish  as  in  975* 

973>— CHARLOTTS  A  LA  PAXIBIBinn. 

Of  well  glazed  spoon  biscnits  take  four  ounces  cut  in  thin  slieei^ 
and  then  into  lozenges,  a  case  of  green  pistachio  biscuits;  at  the 
bottom  of  a  plain  octagon  mould  arrange  these  pieces  in  the  form  of 
a  star.  With  the  pieces  left  line  the  inude  of  the  mould,  putting  the 
pieces  upright,  (he  glazed  side  being  turned  next  to  the  mould ;  fill 
up  the  interior  with  a  vanilla  fromage  bararois,  but  this  must  not  ba 
done  until  it  is  just  ready  to  send  to  table,  cover  the  fiximage  with 
biscuiU,  surround  the  mould  with  pounded  ice,  let  it  lenuun  three 
f[uartera  of  an  hour  and  then  turn  it  on  to  a  dish  and  serve. 


979. CHARLOTTE    A    LA    BUBSl. 

Meringues,  with  pools  of  jam. 


Take  a  pint  of  cieam  and  the  jrolki  <^  six  ems,  beat  them  togettMTi 
add  four  ounces  of  sugar,  the  same  of  citron  snred  fine,  two  spon- 
fills  of  flour,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Place  this  mixture  in  a^deepdi^r 
bake  it  in  a  quick  oven,  and  turn  it  out. 

981. — CURRANT  PUDDINa. 

Take  a  pound  of  currants,  a  pound  of  suet,  five  eggs,  four  spoonful* 
of  flour,  lialf  a  nutmeg,  a  tea-spoonful  of  ginger,  a  little  powdered 
sugar,  and  a  little  salL     Boil  this  tor  three  hours. 

982.^<;herby  pcddinq. 

Line  a  well-buttered  basin  wilh  a  paste  made  of  butter,  or  sorf 

chopped  small,  rubbed  into  flour,  put  in  picked  cherries,  cover  th* 

top  with  a  crust  and  boil  it.    Fruit  puddings  may  be  boiled  in  a 

cloth  without  a  basin. 


PASTRY.  259 


983. — ^ANOTHEB   WAY. 

Hake  a  plain  batter  pudding,  but  ratber  thicker,  and  with  more 
eM8  than  for  plain  boiling,  place  in  picked  cherries,  taking  care  not 
tobreak  them,  and  boil  it  in  a  cloth. 


984.— <;URD    PUDDING,  BOILED. 

Take  the  curd  of  two  gallons  of  milk  well-drained,  rub  it  through 
a  sieTe,  and  mix  it  with  six  eggs,  a  little  cream,  two  spoonfuls  of 
orange  flower  water,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  three  spoonfuls  of  flour, 
the  same  of  bread  crumbs,  half  a  pound  of  currants,  and  the  same 
of  laiflins  stoned.      Boil  it  for  an  hour  in  a  thick  cloth  well  floured. 


985.— CARROT  PUDDING. 

Take  a  large  carrot,  boil  it  soft,  bruise  it  in  a  marble  mortar,  and 
mix  with  it  a  spoonful  of  biscuit  powder,  four  yolks  and  two  whites 
of  eggs,  a  pint  of  cream,  a  large  spoonful  of  rose  or  orange  flower 
Water,  a  quarter  of  a  nutmeg,  two  ounces  of  sugar  and  a  little  ratafia ; 
bake  it  in  a  shallow  dish,  turn  it  out  and  serve  with  sugar  over. 


986. — DAMSON   PUDDING. 

line  a  basin  with  paste,  fill  it  with  ripe  or  bottled  damsons,  cover 
it  with  paste,  boil  it,  and  when  ready  to  serve  cut  a  piece  out  of  the 
top,  put  in  sifted  sugar. 

987. — ^POWL  PUDDING  A  LA  REINE. 

Take  the  breast  and  fleshy  parts  of  three  or  four  cold  roast  fowls, 
cut  them  into  dice  of  an  equal  size  and  rather  small,  put  these  dice 
into  a  redaction  of  veloute,  season  them  well,  then  turn  them  into  a 
dish  to  cool ;  as  soon  as  quite  cold  divide  it  into  two  equal  parts 
which  make  into  puddings  of  an  oval  or  long  shape  the  size  oi  tho 
dish,  roll  them  in  crumbs  of  bread,  cover  them  on  both  sides  with  eggy 
and  roll  once  more  in  the  crumbs  of  bread,  see  that  the  ends  arc  well 
covered  v?ith  crumbs  or  they  will  break.  Fry  them  a  good  colour, 
dnin  them  dry  with  a  clean  soft  towel,  serve  with  a  thin  veloute,  or 
green  parsley  fried. 

988.— GAME  PUDDING. 

Take  a  number  of  larks,  thrushes,  quails,  or  any  small  birds  suffi- 
dent  to  make  a  good  sized  pudding ;  pick  and  truss  them,  fry  them 
in  batter  with  some  sweet  herbs,  some  salt,  and  pepper.  Make  a 
thick  good  paste,  put  in  the  game,  close  it  round,  tic  in  a  cloth,  put 
it  into  boiling  water,  let  it  boil  an  hour,  take  it  out,  open  the  crust, 
pour  in  some  good  cullis  or  eftpagnole^  and  serve  hot. 


989.— GOOSEBERRY   PUDDING. — (dAKKD.) 

Take  a  pint  of  green  gooseberries,  scald  them,  and  rub  them  through 
a  sieve,  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  the  same  of  butter,  three  Naples 

S2 


260  PASTKY. 


biscuits,  and  four  eggs  well  beaten ;  mix  the  ingredients  well  together, 
and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 


990. — HEDGEHOG — ^TO   MAKE. 

Blanch  two  pounds  of  s\w;et  almonds,  pound  them  to  a  paste  in  a 
mortar,  moisten  occasionally  with  canary  and  orange  flower  water; 
beat  the  yolks  of  twelve  and  the  whites  of  five  eggs  with  a  pint  of 
cream  and  some  powdered  sugar,  put  this  with  the  almond  paste  and 
half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  into  a  saucepan,  set  it  over  a  stove 
and  keep  it  constantly  stirring  till  firm  enough  to  be  moulded  into 
the  shape  of  a  hedgehog;  stick  it  full  of  blanched  almonds  cut 
lengthwise  into  slips  and  placed  in  a  dish ;  beat  up  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  put  them  to  a  pint  of  cream,  sweeten  to  your  taste,  stir  them 
over  a  slow  fire  till  hot,  then  pour  it  round  the  hedgehog  and  let  it 
stand  till  cold,  serve  it. 

A  good  calf  s  foot  jelly  may  be  poured  round  it  if  preferred. 


991. ROYAL  HARTS 

Are  of  the  first  mixture,  the  moulds  arc  rather  deep,  and  the  shape 
of  a  hart,  well  butter  them  with  clarified  butter,  after  having  stirred 
in  your  flour  sprinkle  into  it  a  table-spoonful  of  ground  rice,  fill  your 
moulds  and  bake  them  directly,  sugar  the  tops. 


992. ICK   PUDDINGS. 

Make  a  good  custard,  boiling  into  it  a  stick  of  vanilla,  sweeten  it, 
when  cold  take  out  the  vanilla ;  if  the  custard  is  not  quite  smooth 
strain  it,  then  add  half  a  pint  of  cream,  a  gill  of  Noyeau  or  Mares- 
chino,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  good  glass  of  jelly  if  you  have  it, 
or  a  little  boiled  isinglass;  then  put  it  into  your  pudding  mouldl. 
After  having  put  it  through  the  freezing  process  as  for  your  desserts 
ices,  dish  it  on  a  napkin. 

993. ANOTHER   ICE   PUDDING. 

Make  a  custard  as  before,  season  this  with  rum,  and  mix 
before  you  take  it  out  of  the  freezer. 


994. — ^A   DIFFERENT   ICE   PUDDING. 

Make  a  custard  with  a  stick  of  vanilla  (if  vanilla  is  liked),  if  notr  -• 
with  peach  kernels,  brandy,  and  white  wine,  and  all  kinds  of  driec^ 
fruits,  or  firom  syrups  cut  in  small  dice,  and  a  few  currants  and  drie^^^ 
cherries ;  add  half  a  pint  of  cream  and  a  little  lemon  juice. 

995. — ICE   PUDDING   WITH   MARMALADE. 

The  only  difference  firom  the  last,  instead  of  the  cut  fruits,  put  int^ 
your  mould,  in  layers,  apricot  jam,  strawberry  jam,  and  currant  jellj^* 
at  different  times,  but  do  not  let  it  be  seen  on  the  outside  of  ik^^ 
pudding. 


/ 


PASTEY. 


996. — A  LEMON   ICE  PUDDING. 

Whip  up  half  a  pint  of  double  cream,  hare  ready  half  an  ounce  of 
boiled  isinglass,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  thick  custard,  a  tumhler 
of  good  Noyeau;  proceed  with  the  cream  in  adding  them  together  as 
YOU  do  in  other  whip- creams;  have  a  high  mould  for  it;  as  you  put 
It  in  the  mould  sprinkle  dried  cherries  into  it ;  when  full,  put  it  in 
your  ice  to  freeze,  let  it  remain  till  quite  washed.  Garnish  your 
dish  with  clear  jelly  and  ratafia  biscuits.  Turn  it  out  with  lukewarm 
water. 

To  prepare  your  ice,  &c.  To  freeze,  break  your  ice  small,  and  be- 
tween erery  layer  of  ice  you  put  round  the  mould  add  a  handful  of 
suet.    Beat  it  down  tight  to  the  mould. 

997. LEMON    PUDDING. 

Boil  four  lemons  peeled  thin  till  they  are  soft,  rub  them  through  a 
hair  sieve,  and  preserve  the  fine  pulp ;  pour  some  boiling  milk  or 
cream,  in  which  a  stick  of  cinnamon  has  been  boiled,  over  a  pound 
of  Naples  buiscuits,  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 
When  cold,  add  to  them  the  pulp  of  the  lemons  and  eight  eggs  well 
beaten;  mix  all  together,  and  sweeten,  and,  if  liked,  add  some 
brandy.  Make  a  good  puff  paste,  edge  a  dish  with  it,  put  in  the 
mixture,  ornament  the  top  with  strings  of  paste,  and  bake  it  in  a 
moderate  oven. 


998. MARROW  PUDDING. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  beef-marrow  finely  chopped,  a  few  currants 
washed  and  picked,  some  slices  of  citron  and  orange  peel  candied,  a 
little  grated  nutmeg,  a  table-spoonful  of  brandy,  and  the  same  of 
ijrup  of  cloves,  and  half  a  pound  of  Naples  biscuits ;  strain  to  this  a 
quart  of  new  milk  boiled  with  cinnamon  and  lemon  peel ;  allow  the 
mixture  to  cool,  and  then  add  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  the  whites 
of  five.     Bake  it  in  a  dish  with  a  puff- paste  round  it. 


999. BAKED  MARROW^  PUDDING. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  marrow,  chop])ed  fine,  six  sponge  biscuits 
broken  up,  a  few  currants  or  raisins  stoned,  some  candied  orange, 
kmon,  and  citron,  cut  into  small  dice,  a  little  nutmeg,  grating  of  half 
a  lemon  peel ;  butter  a  pie  or  tart  dish.  Spread  your  cakes,  marrow, 
temately  with  the  peels,  five  eggs  broken  in  a  basin,  leave  out  two 
whites,  beat  them  up,  put  half  a  pint  of  cream  to  it,  and  a  cup  of  milk, 
sweeten  with  pounded  sugar,  according  to  the  taste  you  have  to  make 
it  for,  some^  like  things  sweeter  than  others,  I  do  for  one,  that  is  no 
reason  I  should  insist  in  going  to  the  extreme — put  a  paste  thin  to  your 
dish. 


1000. ^SIACARONI   PUDDING. 

t  Simmer  an  ounce  or  two  of  pipe  macaroni  in  a  pint  of  milk,  with 
a  bit  of  lemon  peel  and  cinnamon,  till  soft ;  put  it  into  a  dish  with 
milk,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  the  white  of  one,  some  sugar, 


\ 


262  PA8TBY. 

nutmef^,  a  spoonf\il  of  almond  water,  and  half  a  glass  of  raism  wine, 
put  a  nice  paste  round  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  bake  it. 

A  layer  of  orange  marmalade  or  raspberry  jam  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  almond  water  or  ratafia. 


1001. — ^MILLET  PUDDING. 

Spread  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  pot 
in  SIX  ounces  of  millet,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sogi^,  poor  oTer 
it  three  pints  of  milk,  and  bake  it 

1002. MUTTON  PUDDING. 

Cut  some  large  slices  from  the  upper  part  of  an  underdone  leg  of 
mutton,  line  a  basin  with  a  good  suet  crust,  and  put  in  the  meat; 
season  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  shalot,  or  young  onions 
finely  shred.     Coyer  up  with  the  paste,  and  boil  it  two  hours. 


1003. MUFFIN'   PUDDING  WITH  DBIED  CHERRIES. 

Put  four  muffins  into  a  pan,  strain  oyer  them  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
milk  boiled  for  ten  minutes,  with  a  few  coriander  seeds,  a  bit  of 
lemon  peel,  and  sujijar  to  suit  the  taste.  When  cold,  wash  them  with 
a  wooden  spoon,  add  half  a  pound  of  dried  cherries,  a  gill  of  brandy, 
a  little  grated  nutinep:,  two  ounces  of  sweet  almonds  olanched  and 
pounded  very  fine,  and  six  eggs  well  beaten ;  mix  all  together,  and 
boil  in  a  basin,  or  bake  it  in  a  dish  lined  with  paste. 

1004. OATMEAL   PUDDING. 

Take  a  pint  of  the  best  fine  oatmeal,  pour  a  quart  of  boiling  mOk 
over  it,  and  let  it  soak  all  night ;  the  next  day  put  it  in  a  basin  just 
large  enough  to  hold  it,  add  two  eggs  beaten,  and  a  little  salt,  coyer 
it  tight  with  a  floured  cloth,  and  boil  it  an  hour  and  a  half.  It  may 
be  eaten  hot,  with  cold  butter  and  salt;  or  cold,  sliced  and  toasted. 

1005. — ORANGE  PUDDING. 

To  half  a  pound  of  lump  sugar  press  the  juice  of  three  Seyille 
oranges  i  take  half  a  pound  of  butter  melted  thick  and  the  yolks  o; 
ten  eggs  well  beaten,  mix  all  thoroughly  together  with  four  oi 
of  blanched  almonds  well  pounded  with  a  little  orange-flower  water, 
and  the  peel  of  one  of  the  oranges  grated.  Place  a  thin  crust  i 
the^bottom  of  the  dish. 

1006. — PKAS   PUDDING. 

Wash  and  soak  well  in  warm  water,  a  pint  of  split  peas,  tie 
in  a  clean  cloth,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  of  hot  water,  and  boil  untf 
soft,  before  serving  beat  it  up  to  a  mash  with  a  little  butter  and 
it  is  served  with  boiled  pork  or  beef. 


1007.— A  FIRST-RATE  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Half  a  pound  of  raisins,  stoned. 

Half  a  pound  of  currants  well  washed  and  dried. 


PASTRY. 


263 


QuarterW  a  pound  of  mixed  peels^  cut  ia  dice. 
Half  a  nutmeg,  grated. 
Half  a  tea-spoonfiil  of  pounded  cinnamon. 
The  grating  of  two  lemons. 
The  juice  of  one. 
A  small  particle  of  salt 
One  pound  of  bread  crumbs. 
Half  a  pound  of  moist  sugar. 
Seren  eggs,  yolks  and  whites. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  bee^  or  mutton  suet,  chopped  yery 
fine. 

Two  glasses  of  brandy. 
Two  ditto  of  sherry. 
*  Firsty  break  your  eggs,  beat  them  well  in  your  basin  then  add  your 

I  ice,  salt,  and  peels :  then,  the  sugar,  sweet  plums,  and  currants :  Uien, 
e  bread  crumbs:  tlien,  the  brandy  and  wine. 

SAUCE  FOB  IT. 

Break  three  yolks  of  eggs,  a  little  sugar,  and  a  gill  of  cream.  Stir 
it  over  the  fire,  till  thick,  then  add  a  glass  of  brandy  to  it.  Stir  it  all 
the  time.  Butter  well  a  three  pint  round  plain  mould,  then  paper  the 
ndes  and  bottom  quite  smooth.  Butter  the  paper  likewise,  steam  it 
for  three  or  four  hours,  put  paper  on  the  top :  when  done  turn  your 
Boald  oyer  on  the  dish,  then  lift  it  off  gently :  should  the  paper 
adhere  to  the  pudding,  take  it  clean  off;  pour  the  white  pudding  sauce 
orerit. 


1008. — ^PLXJM   PUDDING. 

Stone  half  a  pound  of  raisins,  wash  clean  and  pick  half  a  pound  of 
currants,  chop  half  a  pound  of  beef  or  mutton  suet  yery  fine,  have 
tome  bread  crumbs  made  fine  through  a  wire  sieve,  cut  fine  a  little 
candied  orange,  lemon,  and  citron,  grate  a  little  nutmeg,  a  few  grains 
6i  powdered  cinamon,  break  eight  eggs  (according  to  the  size  pudding 
required),  beat  them  up  in  a  large  basin,  then  add  your  spice  and  a 
qoarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  then  your  candies,  currants,  and 
taisina,  sweeten  then  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  add  the  grating  of  one 
lemon,  mix  in  bread  crumbs  until  it  is  quite  stiff  and  well  mixed, 
add  a  glass  of  brandy  and  two  of  sherry,  let  it  stand  for  some  hours ; 
butter  a  plain  round  mould  if  you  haye  it,  sprinkle  it  all  over  with 
fried  bread  crumbs.  It  will  take  three  hours  to  steam.  Pour  sauce 
oyer  it — any  that  may  be  approved.  You  will  find  it  in  another  place 
in  the  book. 


1009. THE   OLD   ENGLISH  CHRISTMAS  PLUM   PUDDING. 

To  make  what  is  termed  a  pound  pudding,  take  of  raisins  well- 
stoned,  currants  thoroughly  washed,  one  pound  each ;  chop  a  pound 
of  fuet  yery  finely  and  mix  with  them,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
iDkur,  or  bread  very  finely  crumbled,  three  ounces  of  sugar,  one  ounce 
imd  a  half  of  grated  lemon  peel,  a  blade  of  mace,  half  a  small  nut- 
meg, one  tea-spoonful  of  ginger,  half  a  dozen  eggs  well  beaten,  work 


264  PASTRY, 

it  well  together,  put  it  into  a  cloth,  tie  it  fimily— blowing  room  to 
swell — and  boil,  not  less  than  five  hours.  It  should  not  be  suffered 
to  stop  boiling. 

1010. — PLUM   FUDDINO. 

Take  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  cut  it  into  slices  and  soak  them 
in  boiling  milk  till  quite  soft,  then  beat  the  bread  up  with  half  of  a 
pound  of  clarified  sugar,  the  same  quantity  of  currants,  the  same  of 
raisins  stoned,  five  eg^  well  beaten,  candid  orange,  lemon,  and  citron, 
a  few  bitter  almondis  pounded,  and  sugar  to  the  taste;  mix  all 
thoroughly,  add  a  cup  of  brandy,  place  it  into  a  dish  and  bake  il^ 
when  done  turn  it  out  and  sprinkle  powdered  sugar  orer. 

The  above  ingredients  make  an  excellent  pud£ng  boiled  in  a  well 
floured  cloth  or  mould.  As  a  plum  pudding  requires  to  be  irell 
done,  be  careful  to  boil  it  sufficiently. 


1011. — POTATO   PUDDING. 

Take  two  pounds  of  potatoes,  wash  and  boil  them ;  when  cold  add 
a  pint  of  new  milk,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  two  ounces  of  moist  sugart 
and  a  little  nutmeg.     Bake  it. 

101 2. PUDDING DERBYSHIBE. 

Mix  gradually  two  table-spoonfiils  of  flour  with  a  pint  of  milk,  hA 
it  till  thick,  and  when  cold  add  three  ounces  of  butter  beaten  to  i 
cream,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  the  rind  of  a  lemon  grated, 
the  yolks  of  five  and  whites  of  three  eggs,  and  a  little  salt ;  mix  all 
well  together,  put  it  a  dish  lined  round  with  paste,  and  bake  it  in  a 
quick  oyen.     This  pudding  is  yery  nice  cold. 


1013. — PUDDINGS   IN   HASTE. 

To  grated  bread  add  suet  shred,  a  few  currants,  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs  and  the  whites  of  two,  some  grated  lemon  peel,  and  ginger; 
mix  and  form  it  into  balls  about  the  size  and  shape  of  an  egg  with  a 
little  flour.  Put  them  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  them  for  twenty 
minutes. 


**   1014. — PUDDING — QUAKING. 

Take  a  quart  of  cream,  scald  it,  and  when  nearly  cold,  put  to  it 
four  eggs  well  beaten,  a  spoonful  and  a  half  of  flour,  some  nutmeg 
and  sugar ;  tie  it  tight  in  a  buttered  cloth,  boil  it  an  hour,  and  turn  it 
out  carefully.     Serve  with  melted  butter,  a  little  wine  and  sugar. 


1015. — QUINCE  PUDDING. 

Take  as  many  ripe  quinces  as  will  yield  a  pound  of  pulp ;  to  thig 
add  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  ginger  (two 
drams  of  each)  pounded;  mix  them  well,  and  add  them  to  thf 
yolks  of  eight  ^gs  beaten  in  a  pint  of  cream,  stir  all  together,  and 
boil  it  in  a  flour^  cloth. 


PASTBT.  265 

1016.— RICB  PI7DDING,  BOILED. 

Take  some  rice,  pick  and  wash  it  well,  tie  it  in  a  cloth,  leaving 
plenty  of  room  for  it  to  swell.  Boil  it  in  plenty  of  water  for  an  hour 
OT  two.     Serve  it  with  butter  and  sugar,  or  milk. 


1017. — RICE    PUDDING    WITH   CURRANTS. 

Boil  for  half  an  hour  fiye  ounces  of  whole  rice  in  a  cloth,  with 
room  to  swell ;  then  take  it  up,  add  five  ounces  of  currants,  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  suet  shred  fine,  and  two  eggs  well  beaten,  tie  it  up 
again,  and  boil  it  an  hour  and  a  half. 


1018. ^GROUND   BTCE   PUDDING. 

In  a  pint  of  new  milk  boil  two  dessert-spoonfuls  of  ground  rice, 
adding  a  small  piece  of  lemon  peel  and  a  little  cinnamon.  Keep  it 
stirring  while  boiling,  and  let  it  boil  ten  minutes,  then  let  it  cool ; 
when  cold  add  sugar  to  taste,  a  couple  of  well-beaten  eggs,  and  some 
nutmeg.  Line  your  dish  with  a  puff  paste,  pour  in  your  rice,  and 
bake  a  light  brown. 

1019. — RICE   PUDDING  WITH  FRUIT. 

Swell  some  rice  in  a  little  milk  over  the  fire,  then  mix  it  with 
either  currants  or  gooseberries  scalded,  or  apples  pared  and  quartered, 
laisins,  or  black  currants;  add  an  egg  to  the  rice  to  bind  it.  Boil  it 
well,  and  serve  with  sugar. 


1020. ^SAGO    PUDDING. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  sago,  wash  it  in  several  waters  (warm),  then 
boil  it  with  a  pint  of  milk  and  a  little  cinnamon,  stirring  it  often  till 
it  becomes  thick;  pour  it  into  a  pan,  and  beat  it  up  with  half  a  pound 
of  fresh  butter ;  add  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  four, 
beaten  separately,  a  little  flour,  half  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  sugar 
to  liking ;  mix  all  well,  and  boil  it.     Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 


1021. SIPPET  PUDDING. 

Cut  a  small  loaf  of  fancy  bread  into  very  thin  slices,  put  a  layer  of 
them  at  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  then  a  layer  of  marrow— or  beef  suet, 
if  the  former  is  not  easily  obtained  fresh — a  layer  of  currants,  and  then 
a  layer  of  bread,  and  continue  in  this  order  until  you  have  filled  the 
d]fh«  Beat  up  to  a  fine  froth  four  eggs,  mix  them  with  a  quart  of 
cream,  a  nutmeg,  and  four  ounces  of  sugar,  and  pour  it  over ;  put  it 
into  an  oven  with  a  very  steady  heat — not  too  fierce — and  bake  thirty 
minates. 


1022. — 8UET  PUDDING. 

Chop  half  a  pound  of  beef  suet  extremely  fine,  add  the  same 
qiuudtity  of  flour,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  a  small  quantity  ot  pounded 


266  PASTBY. 

and  sifted  sugar,  and  a  little  salt ;  mix  well  together  with  milk  to  a 
tolerable  consistence,  and  either  bake  or  boil  it. 


1023. — 8UET  PUDDING. 

To  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour  add  a  pound  of  shred  suet,  with 
two  eggs  beaten  separately,  a  little  salt,  and  a  little  ground  ginger, 
and  just  enough  milk  to  make  it;  boil  it  four  hours.  It  is  yeiy  nice 
the  next  day  cut  in  slices  and  broiled. 

1024. — ^SWEETMEAT  PUDDING. 

Take  one  ounce  each  of  orange  and  lemon  peel,  and  citron,  slice 
them  very  thin;  line  a  dish  with  puff  paste,  lay  the  peel  at  the 
bottom,  mix  the  yolks  of  seven  eggs  with  the  whites  of  two  e^ 
adding  five  ounces  of  sugar,  pour  it  over  the  sweetmeats,  put  it  mto 
an  oven  well  heated  and  bake  thirtv-five  minutes. 


1025. ^TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Soak  four  table-spoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  a  quart  of  milk  all  night, 
then  add  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  some  lemon  peel,  and  a  little  spice; 
boil  them  gently,  add  four  eggs,  the  whites  well  beaten,  and  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  bake  it. 


1026. ^TREACLE  PUDDING. 

To  a  pound  of  stoned  raisins  add  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
shred  suf^t,  a  pound  of  flour,  a  pint  of  milk,  a  table-spoonful  of 
treacle,  grated  ginger  and  pounded  spice ;  stir  all  up  well,  and  boil  it 
four  hours  in  a  floured  cloth. 


1027. — VERMICELLI  PUDDING. 

Take  four  ounces  of  vermicelli  boil  it  soft  in  a  pint  of  new  milk 
with  a  stick  or  two  of  cinnamon  ;  add  half  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  the  same  quantity  of  sugar,  and  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten ;  put  in  a  dish  and  bake  it. 


1028. — VERMICELLI. 

Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  vermicelli  in  milk,  vrith  a  piece  of 
cinnamon,  four  cloves,  a  bay  leaf,  sweeten  with  lump  sugar,  put  a  piece 
of  butter  into  it ;  break  four  eggs  in  a  basin,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and 
a  gill  of  cream ;  add  it  to  your  vermicelli.  If  nearly  cold,  butter  your 
dish  well,  as  for  a  bread  and  butter  pudding ;  bake  or  stew  this  pad- 
ding ;  if  stewed,  season  with  vanilla  or  orange  flowers. 


1029. ^YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 


Mix  together  a  spoonful  of  flour,  a  pint  of  milk,  and  one  egg  well 
beaten,  add  a  spoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  ginger  grated ;  put  this 


PASTBT.  267 

xnixttire  in  a  square  pan  buttered,  and  when  browned  bj  baking 
under  the  meat  turn  the  other  side  upwards  to  be  browned  ako; 
aerre  it  cut  in  pieces,  and  arranged  upon  a  dish. 

If  jou  require  a  richer  pudding  increase  the  number  of  eggs. 

1030. — APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Pare  a  few  good  sized  baking  apples,  and  roll  out  some  paste, 
diride  it  into  as  many  pieces  as  jou  have  apples,  cut  two  rounds 
fit>m  each,  and  put  an  apple  under  each  piece,  and  put  the  other  oyer, 
join  the  edges,  tie  them  in  cloths,  and  boil  them. 


1031. APPLE   DUMPLINGS,  BAKED. 

Make  them  as  directed  above,  but  instead  of  tying  them  in  cloths 
place  them  in  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  them. 

1032.— CURRANT  JELLY  DUMPLINGS. 

Koll  out  rather  thin  some  good  rich  paste,  spread  some  currant 
jelly  oyer  if,  roll  it  up,  put  it  in  a  cloth,  tie  it  at  each  end,  boil  it  an 
hour,  and  then  serve. 


1033. ^DAMSON   DUMPLINGS. 

Line  a  basin  with  a  good  hot  paste  crust,  rolled  rather  thin,  fill  it 
with  damsons,  cover  it  and  boil  it  in  a  cloth  for  an  hour ;  when  done 
pour  melted  butter  over  it,  grate  sugar  round  the  edge  of  the  dish, 
and  serve. 


1034, — DUMPLINGS ^HARD. 

Make  a  paste  of  fiour,  small  beer,  or  water,  and  a  little  salt,  roll 
liiem  into  small  balls,  and  put  them  in  the  pot  when  the  water  boils; 
in  half  an  hour  they  will  be  done.  They  are  very  good  boiled  with 
beef.     Serve  either  with  cold  or  melted  butter. 


1 035 . — DUMPLINGS — NORFOLK. 

Make  a  batter  with  flour,  a  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs,  and  a  little  salt, 
^bop  it  in  small  portions  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  boil  them  three 
minutes,  and  then  put  them  into  a  sieve  or  cullender  to  drain. 


1036. DUMPLING  PASTE. 

Make  a  paste  with  flour,  milk,  salt,  and  yeast ;  let  it  stand  in  a 
warm  place  to  ferment ;  cut  into  sizes  according  to  taste ;  boil  about 
twenty  minutes;  let  them  cool;  cut  each  in  two;  soak  thorn  in  milk, 
sugar,  and  lemon  peel  an  hour ;  drain  and  flour  them  for  frying,  or 
dip  them  in  oil  or  melted  butter  to  broil.  Baste  with  the  same  they 
were  dipped  in. 

1037.— DUMPI-IKQ — SCOTCH. 

In  the  centre  of  a  pa«te  made  of  oatmeal  and  water  put  a  had- 
dock's liver,  well  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.     Boil  it  m  a  cloth. 


268  PAJ3TBY. 


J038. — BUBT    DUMPLIKGS. 

Make  the  paste  the  same  as  for  suet  pudding,  wet  jour  cloth,  dut 
flour  over  it,  put  in  the  paste  the  size  intended,  tie  up,  and  boil  an 
hour. 


1039. — RASPBERRY   DUMPLINGS. 

Roll  out  some  good  puff- paste,  spread  raspberry  jam  over  it,  roll  it 
up,  and  boil  it  a  little  more  than  an  hour ;  cut  it  into  slices,  pour 
melted  butter  into  the  dish,  and  serve. 


1040. — YEAST  DUMPLINGS. 

Take  some  jeast  and  make  a  very  light  dough,  the  same  as  for 
bread,  using  milk  however  instead  of  water,  add  salt,  put  it  by  the 
fire  covered  in  a  pan  for  half  an  hour  or  more  to  rise,  after  this  is 
done  roll  up  the  dough  into  small  balls  and  boil  them  for  ten 
minutes,  then  take  them  out  and  serve  directly  with  wine  sauce  over 
them.  To  know  when  they  are  done  stick  a  fork  into  oue,  and  if  it 
comes  out  clean  they  will  do. 

A  good  method  of  eating  theiti  is  by  dividing  them  from  the  top 
with  two  forks,  as  they  get  heavy  by  their  own  steam,  and  eat  them 
directly  with  meat,  or  sugar  and  butter,  or  salt. 


1041 , TARTLETS. 

Cut  your  paste  after  rolling  it  thin  with  a  fluted  cutter  as  large  as 
your  tartlet  pan  may  be  round,  place  each  piece  even  into  the  pan, 
press  it  down  with  your  finger,  then  put  into  each  either  a  piece  of 
square  crust  of  bread  cut  into  dice  in  the  middle  of  each,  or  a  very 
little  piece  of  jam,  you  will  have  to  add  more  after  they  are  baked, 
sift  some  fine  sugar  over  them,  bake  them  a  light  colour. 


1042. —  APPLE  TART. 

Take  some  good  baking  apples,  pare,  core,  and  cut  them  into  small 
pieces;  place  them  in  a  dish  lined  with  puff  paste,  strew  over  pounded 
sugar,  cinnamon,  mace,  nutmeg,  cloves,  and  lemon  peel  chopped  small, 
then  add  a  layer  of  apples,  then  spice,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  full; 
pour  a  glass  and  a  half  of  white  wine  over  the  whole,  cover  with 
puff  paste,  and  bake  it.  "When  done  raise  the  crust,  stir  in  two  ounces 
of  fresh  butter,  and  two  eggs  well  beaten,  replace  the  crust,  and 
serve  cither  hot  or  cold. 


1043. APRICOT   TART, 

Take  some  apricots,  cut  them  in  two  and  break  the  stones,  put 
them  into  paste  with  sugar,  a  small  quantity  of  preserved  lemon,  and 
a  few  of  the  kernels,  close  it,  sprinkle  sugar  over,  and  glaze  it.  If 
the  apricots  are  not  ripe,  boil  them  a  short  time  in  water,  and  drain 
them  well. 


PiiSTBY.  269 

1044.— -ALH0ND8  (gREB.%)  T\RTS. 

Imonds  ^m  the  tree  before  they  shell ;  scrape  off  the  down 
[life,  and  put  them  into  a  pan  vnth  cold  water  as  fast  as  they 
,  then  put  them  into  a  skillet  with  more  spring-water  over  n 
r  fire  till  they  simmer,  change  the  water  twice,  and  let  them 
)  last  till  tender ;  put  them  between  two  dry  cloths,  and  press 
^ ;  make  a  syiiip  with  double  refined  sugar,  and  put  them  to 
i  little,  repeat  this  the  next  day,  put  them  in  a  close  jar  and 
?m  close,  as  they  turn  black  if  exposed  to  the  air,  the  yellower 
when  in  the  water  the  greener  they  will  be  afterwards ; 
1  into  a  sugar  crust,  lay  the  lid  close,  and  cover  them  with 
id  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


1045.— APRICOT   SWEET-MEAT  FOR  TARTS. 

a  pound  of  ripe  apricots,  remove  the  stones,  break  them  and 
tie  kernels,  add  one  pound  and  a  half  of  green  gages  and  one 
nd  a  qurter  of  lump  sugar;  simmer  it  until  the  fiiiit  becomes 
It  must  not  boil,  and  must  be  kept  well  skimmed ;  clarified 
U  be  found  the  best  to  use  for  this  preserve. 


1046. — BEAN  TARTS. 

lome  green  beans  and  blanch  them.  Put  into  a  puff-paste 
patty  pans),  a  layer  of  these,  and  a  layer  of  different  sweet- 
prinkling  a  little  loaf-sugar  between  each  layer,  then  add 
ice  of  lemon,  some  marrow  seasoned  with  salt,  cloves,  mace, 
and  candied  lemon  or  orange  peel,  cover  ttie  patties,  make  a 
*le  at  top,  and  pour  in  a  little  lemon  juice.  When  baked, 
>me  white  wine  and  a  bit  of  butter. 


1047.^-CHOCOLATE    TART. 

K>me  chocolate,  a  little  flour,  cream,  and  sugar,  and  three  eggs, 
)r  half  an  hour,  stirring  continually  to  prevent  its  catching  at 
put  it  into  the  paste  with  whites  of  eggs  beaten  and  firotned 
;  glaze  it  with  sugar. 


1048. — CHERRY    TABT. 

the  sides  of  a  dish  with  a  good  crust,  strew  in  sugar,  fill  it 
:ked  cherries,  and  put  sugar  at  the  top ;  red  currants  may  be 
f  liked,  cover  with  crust,  and  bake. 


1049. — CURRANT   TART. 

a  dish  with  puff-paste,  strew  powdered  sugar  over  the  bottom 

len  put  in  alternate  layers  of  currants  carefully  picked,  and 

ill  the  dish  is  full  then  cover  and  bake  it. 

addition  of  raspberries  or  mulberries  to  currant  tart  is  a  great 

tmeiit* 


270  PASTRY. 


1050. DAMSON   TABT. 

Line  a  dish  with  a  good  crust,  put  in  the  fruit,  and  proceed  Ae 
same  as  for  any  other  fruit  pie. 

1051. — GRAPE   TABT. 

Take  the  youngest  grapes  before  stones  are  formed,  pick  anf 
scald  them  the  same  as  currants,  or  gooseberries,  and  finish  the  same 
as  other  tarts.  More  sugar  will  be  required  than  usual,  on  aooonmt 
of  the  extreme  tartness  of  the  fruit. 


1052.<^OOSEBERRT  (oREEN)   TABT. 

Use  either  whole  gooseberries,  or  make  a  marmalade  of  them  wi& 
a  good  syrup,  the  last  method  is  perhaps  the  best,  as  you  can  tell  easilj 
how  sweet  they  are  and  ought  to  be ;  if  made  of  marmalade  the 
seeds  ought  to  be  taken  out. 


1053.— -orakoe  tabts. 

Take  some  oranges,  pare  them  very  thin,  soak  them  in  water  ftr 
two  or  three  days,  changing  the  water  often,  then  boil  them  till  they 
become  soft  and  lose  their  bitterness ;  when  cold  cut  a  thick  slice  off 
the  top  and  bottom,  and  the  rest  the  thickness  of  a  crown  piece; 
line  the  tartlet-pans  with  puff  paste,  and  M  them  with  layers  of 
sugar  and  orange  alternately. 


1054. — PEAR  TABT. 

Peel  some  pears  carefiilly,  cut  them  into  quarters  and  remore  the 
cores ;  if  large  and  green  boil  them  soft  in  a  little  water,  simmering 
them  in  some  rich  syrup,  and  place  them  with  the  syrup  in  a  dish 
lined  with  puff  paste,  cover  and  bake  it. 


1055. — QUINCE   TABT. 

Take  a  few  preseryed  quinces,  put  an  equal  weight  of  syrup,  made 
with  sugar  and  water  and  preserve,  into  a  preserving-pan;  boil,  skim, 
and  then  in  the  fruit ;  when  somewhat  clear,  place  the  quinces  in  a 
tart-dish  with  puff-paste  as  usual.  Cover,  bake  it,  and  when  done 
lift  the  top  gently,  put  in  the  syrup,  ice  it,  and  serve. 


1056. — RASPBERRY   TART. 

Line  a  dish  with  nice  puff-paste,  put  in  fruit  and  sugar,  lay  bars 
across^  and  bake. 


1057. — RASPBERRY  TART  WITH   CREAM. 

Put  some  raspberries  in  a  patty-pan  lined  >vith  thin  puff-paste, 
strew  in  some  finely  sifted  sugar,  cover  with  puff-paste,  and  biike  it; 
when  done,  take  off  the  top  and  pour  in  half  a  pint  c^  cream,  pre* 


PASTRY.  27 1 


yunudj  mixed  with  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  egg«,  and  sweetened 
with  a  little  sugar ;  then  return  the  tart  to  the  oven  for  five  or  six 
MJimtf, 


1058. — ^RHUBABB  TABT. 

*"  Take  some  stalks  of  a  good  size,  remove  the  thin  skin,  and  cut 
ibem  in  pieces  four  or  five  inches  long,  place  them  in  a  dish,  and 
pour  oyer  a  thin  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  cover  with  another  dish, 
and  simmer  slowly  for  an  hour  upon  a  hot  hearth,  or  do  them  in  a 
block-tin  saucepan.  Allow  it  to  cool,  and  then  make  it  into  a  tart ; 
irhen  tender,  the  baking  the  crust  will  be  sufficient.  A  tart  may  be 
made  by  cutting  the  stalks  into  pieces  the  size  of  gooseberries,  and 
Baking  it  the  same  way  as  gooseberry  tart. 


1059. — STRAWBERRY  TART. 

Put  into  a  basin  two  quarts  of  the  best  scarlet  strawberries  picked, 
add  half  a  pint  of  cold  clarified  sugar,  the  same  quantity  of  Madeira, 
with  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  mix  all  well  without  breaking  the 
ttrawbenies,  and  put  them  into  a  pufif  paste  previously  baked;  keep 
them  yeiy  cool. 

1 060. ^TARTLETS. 

line  several  tartlet  pans  with  a  thin  short  paste,  fill  them  with 
any  preserve  or  sweetmeat  you  like,  then  with  paste  shred  very  fine 
(moulds  made  for  this  purpose  do  them  much  neater  and  more 
onickly)  cross  them;  egg  them,  place  them  in  a  baking  tinjand  bake 
mem  in  a  quick  oven. 


1061. — YELLOW  ALMOND  SWEETMEATS. 

Blanch  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  wash  them  in  cold  water,  and 
irlien  quite  ory  pound  them  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  yolks  of 
^flgi  into  a  fine  but  rather  stiff  paste;  add  to  them  a  pound  of 
powdered  sugar,  and  the  rinds  of  two  lemons  grated ;  knead  the  paste 
'Well  with  your  hands,  first  sprinkling  the  table  with  sugar.  Form 
the  paste  into  what  figures  you  please,  such  as  fleur-de-lis,  trefoil, 
&C.9  &c.,  each  being  about  the  size  and  weight  of  a  macaroon.  Place 
them  on  white  paper  and  on  an  iron  plate,  ^  them  in  a  moderately 
iiot  stove.  If  they  are  of  a  deep  yellow  they  are  sufficiently  done. 
tThese  sweetmeats  may  be  still  further  ornamented  in  the  following 
^nanner: — Boil  some  sugar  in  orange  flower  water,  to  the  degree 
called  ^  grande  plume,'  and  as  soon  as  the  sweetmeats  are  taken  from 
"the  stove  or  oven  wash  them  over  with  a  light  brusli,  dipped  in  the 
^yrup,  this  will  give  them  a  delicious  perfume,  and  they  may  then  be 
^:alled  a  la  glace ;  when  cold  take  them  ^om  the  paper,  and  put  them 
^to  glasses  for  the  table. 


1062. — ^10  CUT  OUT  PATTY  CASES,  BTC. 

BoH  your  paste  out  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch,  hut  first  tiy  a 


272  PASTRY. 


renr  thin  bit  in  your  oren,  and  jou  will  find  out  the  heat  of  the  oTen 
and  the  lightness  of  your  paste,  and  then  cut  the  thickhesB  ac- 
cordingly. Have  a  plain  or  a  fluted  cutter,  turn  each  piece. of  paste 
upon  your  papered  baking  sheet,  take  a  smaller  cutter  and  pass  in  the 
middle  of  the  top  of  each,  then  egg  each  top  with  a  paste  brush; 
nine  will  make  a  good  dish.  Roll  out  a  piece  of  the  paste,  and  with  a 
cutter  sufficiently  large  to  coyer  the  opening  on  the  top,  cut  oat  the 
same  number  for  the  tops,  egg  them  and  bake  them  separately;  after 
your  paste  is  baked  and  before  it  is  cold,  with  a  small  knife  careiiilly 
put  them  in  the  screen  until  required. 

1063. — ^XO  NEUISALIZE  THE  ACID  IN  FRUIT  PIES  AND  FUDDIirGS. 

A  large  quantity  of  the  free  acid  which  exists  in  rhubarb,  goose- 
berries, currants,  and  other  fruits,  may  be  judiciously  corrected  by 
the  use  of  a  small  quantity  of  carbonate  of  soda  without  the  least 
affecting  their  flavour,  so  long  as  too  much  soda  is  not  added.  To 
an  ordinary  sized  pie  or  pudding  as  much  soda  may  be  added  as, 
piled  up,  will  cover  a  shilling,  or  even  twice  such  a  quantity  if  the 
fruit  is  very  sour.  If  this  little  hint  is  attended  to,  many  a  stomach 
ache  will  be  prevented,  and  a  vast  quantity  of  sugar  saved,  because, 
when  the  acid  is  neutralized  by  the  soda,  it  will  not  require  so 
much  sugar  to  render  the  tart  sweet. 


1064. ^PASTY. 

This  pie  is  made  from  the  shoulder  or  breast,  which  must  first  be 
stewed  as  in  former  pies ;  well  season  it,  and  put  plenty  of  essence  of 
the  gra^7. 

1065. — ^A   PASTE   FOR   BTEWED  BEEP   OB  60UFS. 

Break  three  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and  dry  them  up  with  flour, 
mix  the  paste  well,  roll  it  out  thin  about  an  inch  in  length ;  have 
ready  some  boiling  water,  put  it  in  for  ten  minutes,  add  a  little  salt 
in  the  water,  frequently  moving  it  about,  keeping  it  from  sticking 
together. 

1066. ^LAMB   PASTY. 

Bone,  and  cut  into  four  pieces  the  lamb  you  intend  to  use,  at  th^ 
bottom  of  the  pasty  lay  beef  suet,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  choppe^S- 
thyme,  nutmeg,  cloves,  and  mace,  lay  it  upon  the  suet,  makino>  ^ 
high  border  about  it,  turn  over  the  sheet  of  paste,  close  up,  and  baJe  ^ 
when  it  is  baked  put  in  vinegar,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beatex^^ 
and  some  good  gravy. 

1067. — MUTTON   PASTY,   TO   RESEMBLE  ONE  MADE  OP  TENISON. 

Hang  for  four  or  five  days  (weather  permitting),  a  fat  loin  of  mut-- 
ton,  then  bone  it,  beat  it  well  with  a  rolling-pin,  rub  the  meat  witf^ 
sugir — four  ounces  to  ten  pounds  of  meat — pour  over  it  half  a  gill  oi 
vinegar,  and  the  same  quantity  of  port  wine;  let  it  lie  fire  days,  then 


PA8TBT«  273 

maih  it,  diy  it  thoroughly,  season  highly  with  allspice,  nutmeg,  and 
•alt.  Pat  the  meat  into  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  he  haked ;  add  one 
pound  of  hutter,  spread  oyer  the  meat  (if  ten  pounds) ;  lay  a  crust 
loond  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  cover  with  a  thick  crust,  and  hake  in 
a  slow  oyen.  A  grayy  may  he  made  for  the  pasty  hy  haking  the 
bones  in  a  pan  to  which  has  heen  added  a  little  pepper,  and  salt,  and 
a  glass  of  port  wine.  This  should  he  added  when  the  pasty  is 
drawn. 


1068. — ^FISH  PATTIEB. 

Boil  for  a  little  while  an  eel,  a  carp,  and  a  tench,  half  stew  six 
ojitexa,  pick  the  flesh  from  the  hones  of  the  fish,  heat  it  in  a  mortar 
with  the  smelts  of  the  fish,  some  mace,  and  a  glass  of  sherry,  work 
them  well  together ;  make  some  rich  paste,  line  the  tins,  put  in  the 
foKoemeat,  add  one  oyster,  a  bit  of  butter,  then  ooyer  with  paste  and 
hake. 


1069.— OYSTER  PATTIES. 

Line  some  small  patty  pans  with  a  fine  puff  paste,  put  a  piece  of 
head  into  each,  coyer  with  paste  and  bake  them.  While  ttiey  are 
haking  take  some  oysters,  h^rd  them,  and  cut  the  remainder  up  into 
small  pieces,  place  them  in  a  tosser  with  a  yery  small  portion  of  grated 
nutmeg,  a  yery  little  white  pepper  and  salt,  a  morsel  of  lemon  peel 
cut  as  small  as  possible,  a  little  cream  and  a  little  of  the  oyster  liquor; 
simmer  it  a  few  minutes,  then  remove  the  bread  from  the  patties  and 
pal  in  the  mixture. 

1070. — MEAT  PATTIES. 

The  patty-pans  should  not  be  too  large ;  make  a  puff  paste,  put  a 
kyer  at  the  bottom  of  the  tins,  put  in  forcemeat,  and  cover  with 
puff  paste,  bake  them  a  light  brown,  turn  them  out  If  for  a  small 
dinner  fire  patties,  or  seven  for  a  large  dinner  will  suffice  for  a  side: 
diah. 


1071. — MARROW  PATTIES. 

Shred  a  few  apples  with  some  marrow,  add  a  litUe  sugar,  make 
Acm  up  in  puff  paste,  fry  them  in  clarified  butter,  and  when  done 
^finkle  some  sugar  over  them  and  serve. 


1072. — MARROW  PATTIES. 

Make  a  paste  with  four  ounces  of  sweet  almonds  blanched, 
moistening  tnem  with  orange  flower  water ;  mix  this  paste  with  a 
liandful  of  flour,  a  drop  of  warm  water  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs ; 
Aen  line  several  shallow  moulds  with  it,  dorez  and  bake  them  m  a 
dow  oren.  When  done  put  into  each  of  them  a  little  cream  about 
Ae  Aickness  of  a  crown  piece,  made  with  beef  marrow,  lemon  peel^ 
and  cream,  cover  it  with  a  spoonful  of  white  of  egg  whipped  •%$ 
a  now,  sprinkle  sifted  sugar  orer,  and  serve  them  |#ry  hot. 

T 


274  rjLBiicr. 

1073. — PTFTS  OF  MKY  KIKK 

Cut  into  square  pieces  the  tbickmw  of  a  pattj  one,  pat  in  die 
middle  a  inuiU  piece  of  jam,  double  one  side  OTer  the  other  pieaviig 
it  with  yatx  two  thnmbi,  keeping  the  middle  of  »  tmrad  lump;  eg; 
the  topi,  bake  them  and  glase  Uiem. 

1074. — APniCOT  FCFFS. 

Take  some  puff  paste,  roll  it  to  about  tineen  inches  long,  ths 
eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  and  six  inches  wide,  then  place  s 
small  portion  of  apricot  mnrmalnde  on  the  paste  at  equal  distancei; 
and  two  inches  from  the  edge ;  moisten  ronnd  each  bit  of  mamuledt^ 
and  turn  ihe  two  inches  of  paste  orer,  press  it  down  nmnd  tbt 
preserve  so  ss  to  join  the  crusta,  and  then  cut  them  otit  into  an- 
dicular  tnmoTers ;  Inr  them  on  a  tin,  dores  and  bake  them  in  a  brt 
oren ;  when  almost  done  sprinkle  them  nith  nigaT,  and  g^ate  dxa. 


1075. — OATBAU  M£4P0LITAIf. 

Found  cakes  in  alternate  layers  with  preserves,  as  jama  of  difiM' 
sorts,  between  tach  layer.  The  ornaments  are  also  made  of  pom* 
cake.  Tiie  whole  is  glazed  with  white  of  e^,  and  the  white  oi»- 
ment  is  piped. 

1076.-H3ATEAD  DAUFBIM. 

Roll  Gilt  a  paste  thin,  sufficient  to  cover  your  bakine  sheet, then >[■*■' 

the  paste  all  over  nith  jam  or  apples  prepared,  roll  out  another  pait* 
and  cover  all  over  the  JLim,  sometimes  egg  with  whites  of  egg,  and 
cover  it  with  chopped  almonds  nnd  sifted  sugar,  then  with  vour  loiin 
cut  it  through  all  along  the  width  of  two  inchea,  turn  Uie  bakivC 
abeet  and  cat  it  through  the  lengtli  of  three  inches,  then  bake  iha*- 
a  nice  light  brown ;  when  baked  and  nearly  cold,  take  them  fiw*- 
the  baking  sheet  and  trim  the  sides  and  ends  quite  smootii,  didithco*- 
on  a  napkin  as  cutlets  standing  upon  the  ends. 

iffJT.—PUITS  d'amodr. 
Bon  jonr  second  paste  a  quarter  of  an  incli  thick,  cnt  wilh  ^ 
finted  cutter  tbe  size  of  a  cronn  piece  about  eighteen  paces,  plx^ 
them  iipon  a  papered  baking  sheet,  press  a  round  marie  with  a  DO^^ 
smaller  plain  cutter,  egg  them  lightly,  bake,  and  glue  them  iiJn^ 
done;  wnile  warm  open  the  top  with  a  small  knife,  and  fill  the  piri' 
with  dilfeient  jams,  diali  them  high  upon  a  na^Lia* 


PASTEY.  275 

1078. — ^lilCE,   OATEAU   OF. 

Boil  a  quart  of  cream  and  add  to  it  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  rice ;  when  the  latter  is  quite  soft 
diaBolre  in  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  then  put  in  the 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  let  it  cooL  When  quite  cold  stir  in  four  yolks 
and  four  whole  eggs,  more  if  the  rice  be  Tery  thick ;  butter  a  mould 
lightly,  put  the  rice  into  it,  phee  tiie  mould  in  hot  ashes  so  that  it 
may  be  completely  enveloped  in  and  covered  with  them ;  in  half  an 
hour  the  gateau  will  be  done  enoagh,  then  turn  it  out  and  serve.  If 
YOU  wish  you  can  make  a  souffle  by  whipping  the  whites  of  six  egcs 
like  other  souffles ;  in  this  case  it  should  be  served  in  a  silver  dish. 
In  patting  the  preparation  into  the  mould  be  careful  not  to  fill  it,  as 
the  rice  would  swell  and  run  over. 


1079. A  MIXED  JAM  FOR  TABTS  OR  TARTLETS. 

Take  two  pounds  of  apricots  when  ripe,  take  out  the  kernels  and 
blanch  them,  then  add  them  to  the  fruit ;  add  to  this  two  pounds  of 
oeengage  plums  or  bullaces/and  two  or  three  pounds  of  lump  sugar ; 
Aen  gently  boil  all  until  it  is  a  clear  jelly.    Put  it  in  small  pots. 


1080. — ALMOND  WAFERS. 

Take  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  blanch  and  pound  them ;  add  a 
pound  of  powdered  sugar,  a  pinch  of  orange  flowers  pralince,  put 
them  into  a  basin  and  moisten  them  witli  a  suflicient  quantity  of 
whites  of  eggs  to  enable  you  to  spread  the  paste  on  wafer  paper  with 
die  blade  of  a  knife,  the  wafer  paper  must  bo  rubbed  with  virgin 
vuc  and  sweet  oil ;  lay  the  preparation  on  as  thin  as  possible,  chop 
lome  sweet  almonds  very  small,  mix  them  with  sugar,  and  strew  them 
Ofer  the  wafers,  and  put  them  into  a  hot  oven;  when  about  half 
Indeed  take  them  out  and  cut  them  in  squares;  replace  them  a  minute 
h  the  oven,  take  them  out  again,  and  press  them  on  a  stick  to  give 
ftem  the  proper  form ;  as  soon  as  they  are  cold  put  them  on  a  sieve. 
'm  before  they  are  served  they  should  be  slightly  wormed. 


1081.— CURD  PUFFS. 

7o  the  curd  of  two  quarts  of  new  milk  well  drained,  add  the  yolks 
^  seven  eggs  and  the  whites  of  two,  sugar,  rose-water,  nutmeg,  and 
^^lead  crumbs ;  make  it  into  a  paste,  cut  it  into  any  shape  you  like, 
*y  them  in  boiling  lard,  and  serve  them  with  a  sauce  made  with 
*^^tter,  sngar»  and  white  wine. 


1082. — aiEESE  PUFFS. 

^TUke  half  a  pint  of  cheese  curd  strained  very  fine,  beat  it  in  a 
2?«tar  with  three  eggs,  leaving  out  two.  whites,  a  spoonful  and  a  halt 
^  iour,  a  spoonful  of  orange  jGbiwer  water,  a  quarter  of  a  nutmeg, 
^••d  si^ar  to  make  it  rather  sweet;  make  the  paste  into  very  smml 

^^^^lAd  cakes  and  bake  them  on  a  tin  plate  in  a  hot  oven  fhr  fifteen 

^Qtes;  serve  with  padding  sauce. 

T  2 


L  DISH   UF  FBENCH  FABTBT. 

The  pastiT  is  fixed  hy  vhite  of  egg.  A  Teil  is  fonned  otv  At 
wbole  by  wnite  of  e^  and  white  sugar  boiled  biisklj,  stiired  irboi 
it  has  boiled,  and  poured  over  while  ia  a  froth, 

1084. — CROaUBTS  ' 

Are  prepared  in  the  Bame  war  as  No.  "JffJ,  but  not  egged  and  Wnd 
cnimbed,  but  formed  as  pufb  in  a  paste,  but  inst«ad^ot  jams  joa  will 

Sat  a  piece  of  this  preparation,  jiou  must  egg  the  edge  befbn  jou  bf 
lem  to;;e[ber,  egg  the  tops  of  them,  and  sprinkle  some  fine  bralESB 
Yennacelii  over  them,  then  fi^  them  the  same  ns  the  rissole^  diibtd 
im  a  napkin  and  fried  parsley. 

1085. — WCB,  dtOQtrETTES  OF. 

Wash  and  scald  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice,  put  it  into  n  vnct- 
pan  with  the  rind  of  a  lemon  shred  fine,  a  quarter  of  a  ponnd  of 
powdered  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  crisped  orange  flower,  an 
ounce  of  butter,  and  half  a  pint  of  milk ;  set  these  on  the  fire,  antt 
when  the  rice  is  quite  soft  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  stir  them  in 
over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  them  boil ;  pour  the  preparation  on  s 
large  tin  or  slab,  spread  it  equally,  let  it  cool,  and  then  divide  it  iule 
amall  parts,  roll  these  into  l^lls,  dip  them  into  an  omelet,  roll  them 
in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  them  in  n  very  Iiot  pnn ;  ns  soon  as  &t 
croquettes  are  of  a  nice  colour  drain  them,  sprinkle  them  witb 
powdered  sugar,  and  serve  them. 

1086. — TO  KJlKF,  xbbingciib. 

Taj  fonr  eggs  on  ice  for  an  hour,  weigh  the  weight  of  the  eggs  it- 
fine  sifted  sugar,  then  whip  np  the  whites  of  those  four  ^gs  la  a 
very  stiff  point,  when  done  mix  in  gently  the  sugar;  have  ready  > 
board  an  inch  and  a  half  thick,  covered  with  white  paper,  sugar  the 
paper,  then  with  a  silver  spoon  form  the  meringues  the  form  of  an  tgf, 
but  do  not  let  them  touch  each  other,  sift  sugar  well  over  them,  Sj 
them  in  your  hot  closet  and  when  quite  hard  take  them  off  the  pwer 
and  scoop  ont  the  soft,  and  turn  tnera  over  upon  another  paper,  dry 
them  again  in  the  hot  closet,  fill  (hem  with  jam  or  cream  iraen  JfM 
wont  tliem;  dish  npon  a  napkin  or  cut  pnper. 

What  you  scoop  ont  will  do  to  sweeten  JeRy,  or  glsze  tntta. 


PA8TBY.  277 

1087. ^MEBINGUES. 

Whisk  the  whites  of  nine  eggs  to  a  solid  froth,  then  add  the  rind 
of  six  lemons  grated  rery  fine,  and  a  spoonful  of  sifted  sugar,  afler 
which  lay  a  sheet  of  wet  paper  on  a  tin  and  with  a  spoon  drop  the 
mixture  in  little  lumps  'separately  upon  it,  sift  sugar  over  ana  put 
them  to  hake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven,  taking  care  that  they  are 
done  of  a  nice  colour,  then  put  raspberry,  apricot,  or  any  other  kind  of 
iam  between  two  of  these  hottoms,  add  them  together  and  lay  them 
m  a  wann  place  or  before  the  fire  to  dry. 


1088. — MERINGUES. 

Take  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs,  six  ounces  of  the  best  lump  sugar 
]Nmnded  and  sifted,  and  half  a  pound  of  pistachios,  blanch  and  beat 
the  latter  in  a  mortar,  with  a  little  white  of  egg  to  a  fine  paste,  whisk 
the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  snow,  then  add  the  sugar  and  pistachio  paste, 
Hox  them  well,  but  rery  lightly,  and  when  they  are  thoroughly 
iMorpofated  put  some  sheets  of  paper  on  tin  plates,  lay  your  pre- 
I^Matioii  on  tne  paper  with  a  spoon,  lay  the  meringues  at  least  an 
aeh  aparty  sprinkle  sifted  sugar  orer  them  and  put  them  into  a 
Moden^  oven  or  stove,  when  done  detach  them  gently  from  the 
piper  with  a  knife,  and  place  them  on  a  sieve  in  a  dry  place,  before 
tker  are  sent  to  table  fill  each  with  a  little  whipped  cream,  to  which 
tdd  a  small  quantity  of  orange-fiower,  rose,  or  vanilla  water. 


1089. — APPLE   MERINGXTES. 

Heriognes,  the  apple  in  centre. 


1090.— CASSEROLE  OF  RICE. 

Use  a  well  mould  the  size  you  may  require  the  dish  for,  after 
Jour  rice  is  prepared,  as  in  another  place  you  will  see;  while  it  is 
iraim  wet  your  mould  with  milk,  press  in  the  rice  very  tight,  then 
tsm  it  out  on  the  dish  it  is  to  go  to  table  on,  cover  it  over,  and  keep 
it  hoi  until  wanted,  the  well  will  be  filled  as  in  receipt  1185,  pouring 
mice  round  the  casserole  on  the  dish,  garnish  the  top  with  plovers' 
4g%  and  whole  truffles. 

1091.— APPLES  Ilf  RICE. 

Take  a  few  good  apples,  pare,  core,  and  cut  them  into  quarters, 
M  some  rice  in  a  cloth  until  it  is  sofit,  then  put  in  the  apples,  tie  np 
reij  loose,  and  boil  gently  till  sufficiently  done. 


278  PANCAKES  AND  FRITTERS. 


CHAPTER  XV. 

FAHCAKES  AHD  FRITTERS. 

1092.— PANCAKES. 

Pour  a  good  batter  made  of  eegs,  milk,  and  flour,  in  the  usual  im 
into  a  pan,  so  that  it  lies  rerj  tnin,  fry  the  pancakes  with  hot  Im, 
and  when  one  side  is  done  turn  it  by  tossing  it  up  lightly,  senra  ~~^^ 
sugar  and  lemon,  or  Seville  orange  juice. 


1093.— CRRA.M   PANCAKES. 

To  a  pint  of  cream  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  ounces  of  sugUi 
and  a  little  beaten  cinnamon,  mace,  and  nutmeg ;  mix  the  wCoI« 
well,  and  then  fry  them  very  carefully. 


1094. — PANCAKES  1  LA  FRAN9AI6E. 

Into  a  stewpan  put  four  ounces  of  butter,  a  table-spoonful  of 
ratafia  pounded,  the  rind  of  a  lemon  cut  thin,  two  ounces  of  pounded 
white  sugar,  mix  in  separately  three  eggs,  then  add  one  at  a  time 
the  yolks  of  three  more,  mix  well,  add  a  little  milk,  half  a  pint  of 
cream,  and  a  little  orange  flower  water,  beat  it  well  up  to  the 
thickness  of  a  good  cream,  put  into  your  pan  some  clarified  butter, 
and  when  melted  pour  it  away  and  put  in  your  batter  for  the 
pancakes,  they  must  be  made  very  thin;  when  you  have  finished 
flying  the  pancakes  leave  in  the  bottom  of  your  ste^^'pan  one  table- 
spoonful  of  the  batter,  add  to  it  a  little  orange  flower  water,  some 
sugar,  a  small  quantity  of  pounded  ratafia,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg; 
mix  this  up  with  some  cream,  put  it  into  a  boat  and  serve  as  a  sauce. 


1095. — PANCAKES  A  l'italiennb 

Are  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the  above,  excepting  that  wbeo 
fried  they  must  be  laid  open  on  a  clean  dresser,  an  Italienne  cream 
spread  over  them,  rolled  up  and  laid  side  by  side  in  a  dish  with  the 
brown  side  outwards. 


1096. — RICB   PANCAKES. 

To  half  a  pound  of  rice  put  two  thirds  of  a  pint  of  water,  boil  it  to 


PANCAKES  ANI>  FBITTEBS.  279 

a  jdlj;  wben  cold,  add  to  it  eight  egga^  a  pint  of  cream,  a  little  salt 
mm  ■atmeg;  and  half  a  pound  of  butter  melted ;  mix  well,  adding 
tlM  batter  laat,  and  working  it  onlj  so  much  as  will  make  the 
batter  sufficiently  thick.  Fry  them  in  lard,  but  employ  as  little  as  it 
is  possible  to  fry  them  with. 

1097- — FBITTEaS 

An  Bade  of  batter  the  same  as  pancakes.  Drop  a  small  ouasiti^ 
iBta  the  pan,  hare  ready  i4)ples  pared,  sliced,  and  cored,  lay  tacm  in 
the  batter  and  hy  them ;  they  may  also  be  made  with  sliced  lemon 
or  cuxiants,  the  latter  is  particularly  palatable.  They  should  be  sent 
t»  tMe  upon  a  folded  napkin  in  the  dish ;  any  sweetmeat  or  ripe 
fruit  will  make  fritters. 


1098. — ^FRITTERS,  APRICOT. 

Twelve  apricots  preserved  in  brandy,  drain,  and  cut  them  in  half; 
wrap  them  in  wafers  moistened  and  cut  round ;  dip  them  in  batter, 
as  in  receipt  1101,  and  fry.     Sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  serve. 

1099. — APPLE  FRITTERS. 

Kke  two  or  three  large  russeting  apples,  pare  them  thin,  cut  them 
half  an  inch  thick,  lay  them  on  a  pie  dish,  pour  brandy  over 
'them,  let  them  lie  two  hours  ;  make  a  thick  batter,  using  two  eggs, 
have  dean  lard,  and  make  it  quite  hot ;  fry  two  at  a  time,  a  nice 
Sghi  brown,  put  them  on  the  back  of  a  sieve  on  paper,  sift  pounded 
sngar  over  Uiem,  glaze  them  with  a  shovel  or  salamander ;  ^hsh  en  a 
naalrin-r 

After  they  are  cut  in  slices  take  out  the  core  with  a  small  round 
cotter. 


1100. — ^FRITTERS,    AU   BLANC. 

a  handful  of  rice-flour  with  milk,  set  on  the  fire,  stir  con- 
stantly, adding  a  little  cream,  sugar,  lemon-peel,  and  orange-flowers  ; 
wWn  thickened  remove  it  from  the  fire ;  when  cold  roll  it  in  baQs 
tlie  tme  of  a  walnut,  dip  them  in  batter,  and  fry  them. 


1101. FRITTERS   A   l'aNGLO-FRAIT^AISE. 

Make  a  batter  as  follows : — Put  into  a  saucepan  one  glass  and  a 
half  of  water,  two  ounces  of  fresh  bu^r,  and  a  little  salt,  let  it  boil, 
tkoi  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  it  a  firm  batter,  keep  stiixing  for  tikree 
nbintes,  then  turn  it  into  another  vessel.  Make  previously  a  marrow 
podding,  while  it  is  cooling  prepare  your  batter,  cut  tlie  pudding  into 
tina  slices,  divide  again  into  pieces  about  two  inches  long  and  three 
Qoartera  of  an  inch  wide,  dip  them  into  the  batter  and  fry  them,  when 
dine  drain  them,  glaze  with  fine  sugar,  and  serve  them  as  hot  as  yon 
can. 


1102.— cuaaANT  vrtttxrs,  1  la  dauphine. 
Having  picked  and  washed  six  ounces  of  dried  currants,  boil  them . 
gently  for  a  minute  or  two  in  two  ounces  of  clarified  sugar ;  when 


280  PANCAKES  AND  FBITTSB8. 

cold,  put  about  a  quarter  of  a  spoonful  of  them  on  each  fritter ;  kj 
them  in  rather  a  hot  friture ;  as  soon  as  they  are  of  a  proper  oolov 
take  them  out,  drain  them  on  a  napkin,  sprinkle  them  with  fine 
sugar,  and  serre  them. 

1103. — FRITTERS  A  LA  DAUPHINE. 

Roll  out  a  pound  of  brioche  paste  as  thin  as  possible  into  an  oblong 
square,  on  one  part  lay,  a  little  apart,  apricot  marmalade,  wet  sKghtly 
the  paste  round  each  preserre,  then  lay  oyer  it  the  plain  paste,  press 
down  firmly  to  preyent  the  marmalade  leaying  its  place  while  being 
cooked ;  cut  out  the  fritters  with  a  circular  paste-cutter  about  two 
inches  in  diameter,  flour  them  but  not  too  much,  lay  them  in  a  hot  friture 
and  the  paste  will  swell  them  into  little  balls,  as  soon  as  they  are  a 
good  colour  take  them  out,  drain  on  a  napkin,  dust  on  them  some 
powdered  white  sugar,  and  senre. 

1104.  —  PISH  FRriTERS. 

Make  a  light  forcemeat  with  any  kind  of  fish,  put  a  small  quantity 
into  pieces  of  puff  paste  the  size  of  a  common  puff,  fry  in  boiling 
lard  and  drain  dry,  senre  with  truffles  or  b6chainel  sauce  round 
them. 


1105.— ORAMGB  FRITTEBS. 

Take  some  oranges,  pare  off  the  rind  quite  close,  cut  them  inie 
quarters  and  blanch  them  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  drain  them, 
take  out  the  pips,  put  the  oranges  into  a  light  syrup,  and  simmer 
them  to  a  caramel;  remoye  them  from  the  fire,  let  them  cool,  coyer 
them  with  syrup,  dip  each  quarter  into  butter,  and  fry  them  of  a 
nice  colour,  sprinkle  them  with  powdered  sugar;  glaze  and  serye 
them. 


1106. — OYBTKR  FRITTERS. 

Blanch  some  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  then  place  them  for  some 
time  in  yinegar  and  water,  with  salt,  shred  parsley,  and  small  white 
onions  sliced,  after  which  dry  them  well,  dip  each  in  batter  and  fry 
them. 


1107. — OYSTER  FRITTERS. 

Blanch  some  of  the  largest  oysters  you  can  get,  but  do  not  let 
ihem  boil;  take  off  the  beard,  strain  the  liquor,  and  season  with 
cayenne  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  anchoyies;  make  this 
liquor  into  a  good  thick  batter,  using  a  little  cream,  haye  your 
stewpan  with  lard  quite  hot,  then  dip  them  separately  into  the 
batter,  then  fry  them,  use  silyer  skewers  for  them,  if  not  dish  on  a 
napkin  and  firied  parsley. 

1108. — ^PARBfBSAN  FRITTEBS. 

Grate  half  a  pound  of  Parmesan  cheese,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  some  good  lemon  cheese,  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  spoon- 


PANCAKES  AND  FBITTERS.  281 

fbl  of  flour,  mix  well,  add  half  a  pint  of  cream,  or  milk,  a  little 
cajenne  pepper,  a  little  black,  and  some  salt,  and  a  table-spoonful 
of  readj-maae  mustard,  boil  ail  oyer  the  fire,  with  a  wooden  spoon 
keeping  it  well  stirred;  let  it  cool  a  little,  then  add  two  or  three  yolks 
of  raw  eggs,  stir  all  until  it  is  quite  stiff,  turn  it  out  upon  a  dish 
to  cool,  and  then  form  them  into  the  shape  most  approved  of,  as 
wars,  or  round,  or  flat.  Egg  and  bread  crumb  them  twice,  fry  them 
m  TeiT  hot  lard  a  bright  yellow,  firy  some  parsley  at  the  same  time, 
lend  them  up  yery  hot,  and  on  a  napkin  with  fried  parsley. 


1109. — ^FRITTERS  ROTALE. 

Pat  into  a  saucepan  a  quart  of  new  milk,  the  moment  it  is  on  the 
boil  pour  in  a  pint  of  pale  sherry  or  Madeira,  remove  it  from  the  fire, 
let  it  stand  six  minutes,  skim  off  the  curd  and  then  turn  it  into  a 
basin,  beat  it  up  well  with  six  eggs,  season  it  with  nutmeg,  beat  it 
with  a  whisk,  add  enough  flour  to  make  it  of  the  consistence  of 
batter,  add  sugar,  and  fry  quick. 


1110. — ^FRITTERS  SPANISH. 

Cat  into  lengths  about  the  size  and  thickness  of  your  finger  the 
cramb  of  a  French  roll,  you  may  please  your  fancy  as  to  the  shape, 
•oak  it  in  a  compound  of  cream,  nutmeg,  sugar,  pounded  cinnamon, 
and  an  egg ;  fiy  it,  when  thoroughly  soaked,  a  nice  brown,  serve  with 
botter,  wine,  and  sugar  sauce.  ^ 


1111.— FRITTERS  SOUFFLES. 

* .  Mix  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  half  a  spoonful  of  olive  oil,  and  a  little 
alt,  with  half  a  pound  of  flour,  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  snow 
and  add  it  to  the  rest ;  when  your  paste  is  equal  to  a  thick  batter 
tdra  one  spoonful  of  it  and  roll  it  in  flour,  make  each  ball  about  the 
«se  of  a  walnut,  fry  them  in  a  hot  firiture  of  oil,  sprinkle  with  white 
ngar,  and  serve  hot 


282"  B8CB  ANI>  QMXLMTB. 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

BBG8  jUTD  OVELBTft 

1112 — TO  BSBSS  EGGS   (FOACHTO). 

Break  your  eggs  separately  in  ctips^  haye  ready  a  larffe  stewpaoi* 
half  fall  of  water,   pour  into  it  a  little  yinegar  and   salt,  1< 


it  simmer,  then  put  in  your  eggs,  not  too  many  at  a  time,  som^' 
like  them  done  less  than  others,  therefore  boil  them  accordingly^ 
have  ready  by  your  side  a  dish  with  warm  water,  and  when  yonf 
eggs  are  sufiiciently  done  put  them  into  this  clean  water,  trim  thenm 
smooth  and  round^  dish  them  on  pieces  of  toast  battered;  if  fbr 
dinner,  upon  prepared  spinach  or  potatoes. 

1113. — ^BUTTERED  ^GGS,   A  CATHOLIC  VJBH. 

Break  six  whole  eggs  in  a  stewpan,  just  dissolve  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  by  standing  the  basin  in  hot  water,  when  all 
dissolved,  beat  up  the  eggs  and  add  the  butter  to  them,  hare  on 
the  fire  another  stewpan  sufficiently  large  enough  to  hold  tiie  «ie 
yovt  have  the  eggs  and  butter  on,  half  fill  the  large  stewpan  with 
water  setting  the  small  stewpan  into  it,  keeping  it  stirred  one  wi^  all 
the  time,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  you  will  spread  it  on  neatly  cut 


1114. EGG    BALLS. 

Boil  four  eggs  hard,  take  out  the  yolks  and  pound  them,  add 
to  them  a  few  bread  crumbs,  and  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  yolk 
of  one  raw  egg,  mix  them  all  well  together,  take  them  out,  and  with 
flour  on  your  hands  roll  them  into  balls,  boil  them  for  two  minutes. 

1115. — EGGS,    GBATIN   OF,   WITH    CHEESE. 

Take  some  grated  bread,  Parmesan  cheese  also  grated,  a  piece  of 
butter,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  nutmeg,  and  pepper,  mix  these  toge- 
ther and  spread  them  over  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  set  it  over  a  gentle 
fire  to  make  a  gratin,  on  which  break  ten  eggs,  sprinkle  Parmesan 
cheese  over  the  surface,  finish  cooking  it,  and  brown  it  with  the 
salamander. 


1116. — EGGS  maItre  dhOtel. 
Butter'  eight  small  round  moulds,  sprinkle  the  inrides  with  aome 


EGGS  AKB  OMELETS.  283 


fine  diopped  parsley  and  onions,  or  shalots  and  nmsbroom,  and  bread 
crumbs,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  mix  in  jour  bread  crumbs;  when 
your  moulds  are  well  covered  with  all  this  preparation,  break  in  a  raw 
egg  into  each  mould,  then  set  them  to  steam  for  about  four  minutes, 
put  a  good  white  sauce  in  your  dish. 

1117. — SCOTCH  EGOS. 

Boil  hard  six  pullet's  eggs,  take  off  the  shells,  then  mask  each  egg 
with  some  raw  forcemeat,  rolling  each  egg  in  some  grated  tongue  or 
ham,  press  this  with  your  hand  close  to  the  eggs,  then  roll  each  egg 
in  tome  yezy  fine  bread  crumbs,  then  fry  them  a  fine  yellow  colour, 
pot  in  your  dish  a  shaip  sauce  or  plain  gravy,  or  dry  upon  a  napkin, 
and  fined  parsley. 

1118.— TIMBALIfi  OF  EGGS. 

Hard  boil  either  very  small  pullets'  eggs,  or  large  eggs,  boil  them 
quite  hard,  when  done  and  cold,  which  will  soon  be  if  you  will 
put  them  into  cold  water,  then  take  off  the  shell,  then  cut  off  the 
tmall  end  of  the  white,  then  scoop  out,  without  breaking  the  white, 
all  the  yolk,  which  you  will  mix  up  with  a  spoonful  of  good  b6chamel, 
a  little  fine  chopped  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  grated  ham,  or  tongue, 
and  a  few  bread  crumbs,  then  fill  in  the  eggs,  set  them  to  steam  a 
few  minutes  if  hot,  if  not,  dish  them  either  as  before  or  a  salad  sauce 
in  the  dish. 


1119. — PLOVERS*  EGGS. 

If  you  have  them  raw,  put  some  moss  in  paper  iu  your  stewpan, 
then  lay  your  eggs  in  upon  it  covering  them  with  cold  water,  boil  them 
about  ten  minutes,  then  lay  them  in  cold  water,  send  them  up  in  the 
shells  upon  a  napkin ;  or  take  off  the  shells  and  dry  them,  and  put 
each  either  iu  a  mould  of  aspic  jelly,  or  endways  upon  jelly  oma- 
mants. 

1120. OBfELET. 

Take  as  many  eggs  as  you  think  proper,  according  to  the  size  of 
jour  omelet,  break  tnem  into  a  basin  with  some  chopped  parsley  and 
salt,  then  beat  them  well  and  season  them  according  to  taste,  then 
have  ready  some  onions  chopped  small,  put  some  butter  into  a  frying- 
pan,  and  when  it  is  hot,  but  not  to  bum,  put  in  your  chopped  onions, 
give  them  two  or  three  turns,  then  add  your  eggs  to  it  and  fry  the 
whole  of  a  nice  brown,  you  must  only  firy  one  side,  when  done  turn 
it  into  a  dish  the  fried  side  uppermost,  and  serve. 

1121. OMELET   A   LA  CELESTINE. 

Make  four  omelets  of  three  eggs  each,  and  as  thin  as  possible,  slice 
them  carefully  on  the  table,  lay  frangipane*  on,  and  roll  them  up  in 

*  lfmd«  that:  Mix  fire  spoonfkls  of  floor,  flTe  egg*,  a  pint  of  milk,  an  oance  of  batter,  and  a 
plseh  of  alt;  set  on  the  lire,  boil  ten  minutes,  keep  Btirfing ;  pour  into  a  basin  to  cool  Pound 
1|lriMi  mraet  almonds,  three  httter,  tvelre  macaroons;  add  a  little  powdered  orango-flonr, 
«ad  enoDgb  white  sngar  to  sweeten ;  mix  all  together,  and  stir  Mritli  a  wooden  ppoon. 


284  EGGS  AND  OMELETS. 


the  form  of  a  muff,  trim  the  ends  and  place  them  oa  a  diih,  sprinkle 
them  with  powdered  sugar,  glaze  and  serre  them. 


1122.— OMELET  A  LA  CREME. 

Boil  a  pint  of  cream  and  put  into  it  the  crumb  of  a  French  roll, 
parsley,  shalots,  both  shred  small,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  stir  it  oytf 
the  fire  till  quite  thick,  then  add  half  a  dozen  eggs,  fry  your- omeleti^ 
obserre  that  it  will  require  rather  more  time  than  usual. 


1123. — OMELETS  OF  £006,  FOB  GARNIBHINO  OR  CDTTINa  IN  8LIF8. 

Break  your  eggs  and  put  your  yolks  and  whites  into  separate  pans, 
beat  them  up  with  a  little  salt  and  then  put  them  again  into  separate 
earthen  yessels  rubbed  with  sweet  oil,  nave  ready  a  pot  of  boiling 
water  over  a  fire,  put  them  in  closely  ooyered,  and  let  the  omelets 
steam  till  thoroughly  done. 


1124.— OMELET  FRITTEBS. 

Make  two  or  three  thin  omelets,  adding  a  little  sweet  basil  to  the 
usual  ingredients,  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  and  roll  them  into  the 
shape  of  oliyes,  when  cold  dip  them  into  batter,  or  enclose  them  into 
puff  paste,  fry  and  serye  them  with  fried  parsley. 


1125. OMELET  GLAClfCB. 

Whip  up  some  eggs,  with  a  small  quantity  of  salt,  a  little  candid 
lemon  peel,  and  pounded  macaroons,  beat  them  together  well,  and 
then  fry  them  as  usual;  sprinkle  the  omelet  with^  sugar  and  senre. 


1126. OMELET  A  LA  GENDARME. 

Make  a  ragout  with  sorrel,  Parmesan  cheese  grated,  and  bread 
crumbs,  fry  two  omelets  in  the  usual  manner,  between  which  put 
the  aboye  ragout,  place  them  on  a  dish,  cut  some  pieces  of  bread,  fry 
them,  dip  the  edge  of  each  into  some  white  of  egg  to  make  them 
stick,  set  them  round  the  omelet,  oyer  which  pour  a  little  melted  but- 
ter; strew  bread  crumbs  and  Parmesan  cheese  on  it,  and  colour  it  in 
the  oren,  or  oyer  a  salamander. 


1127.— OMELET  AU  NATUREL. 

Break  eight  or  ten  eggs  into  a  pan,  add  pepper,  salt,  and  a  spoonfril 
of  cold  water,  beat  them  up  with  a  whisk,  in  the  mean  time  put 
some  fresh  butter  into  a  frying  pan,  when  it  is  quite  melted,  and 
nearly  boiling,  put  in  the  eggs  with  a  skimmer.  As  it  is  frying,  take 
up  the  edges,  that  they  may  be  properly  done ;  when  cooked  double  it, 
senre  yery  hot. 

""  1128.— ONION  OMELET. 

Cut  some  rery  white  onions  into  slices,  giye  them  a  few  tunifl  orer 


EGGS  AND  OMELETS.  285 

liie  fire;  when  nearly  done,  moisten  them  with  cream,  and  season  with 
■alt^  P^P^9  >uad  nutmeff ;  mix  this  with  half  a  dozen  eggs,  beat  the 
whole  np  well,  and  fry  the  omelet  either  in  oil  or  butter. 


1129.— ONION  OMELET. 

Take  two  or  three  good  sized  onions,  cut  them  into  slices,  and  fiy 
Aem  in  batter,  when  they  are  done  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and 
a  little  chopped  parsley,  fry  two  small  omelets,  on  which  Jay  the 
onions,  with  two  or  three  anchovies  cut  in  slices,  roll  them  up  length- 
ways, fry  some  pieces  of  cnmib,  cut  the  omelets  to  the  shape  and 
rise  of  these,  and  place  them  thereon,  pour  melted  butter,  and  strew 
bfead  cmmbs,  and  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  them,  and  colour  it 
in  the  oven. 


1130. OMELET  SOUFFLE. 

Break  six  eggs,  separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks ;  to  the  latter,  pot 
four  dessert-spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon, 
chopped  exceedingly  small,  mix  them  well,  whip  the  whites  as  if  for 
hiiciiits,  and  add  them  to  the  rest,  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter 
into  a  frying  pan  over  a  brisk  fire,  as  soon  as  it  is  completely  melted, 
ponr  in  the  above,  stir  it  up,  that  the  butter  may  be  thoroughly  in- 
corporated with  the  omelet,  and  when  that  is  the  case  strain  it  into 
a  Battered  dish,  which  place  on  hot  ashes,  strew  powdered  sugar  over, 
and  colour  the  top  carefully  with  a  salamander. 


11 31  .^-OMELET  SOUFFLE  IN  A  MOULD. 

Break  six  fine  eggs,  separate  the  whites  and  yolks,  put  to  the  latter 
three  spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  four  crushed  macaroons,  a  spoonful 
of  potato  fiour,  a  little  crisped  orange  flower  in  powder,  stir  them  to- 
gether well,  whip  the  whites  to  a  frotb,  mix  them  with  the  yolks, 
and  poor  the  whole  into  a  buttered  mould,  but  do  not  fill  it,  set  it  in 
a  moderate  oven  the  same  as  for  biscuits,  when  done,  turn  it  out  on 
a  dish,  and  serve  it  This  omelet  should  be  of  a  clear  colour,  and 
diaka  like  a  jelly. 

1132.— OMELET  STUFFED. 

Make  your  omelet  as  an  naturel,  hut  before  yon  turn  the  ends  OTer 
lay  over  it  a  farce  of  sorrel,  double  the  omelet,  before  you  take  it  from 
the  pan,  so  that  none  of  the  farce  may  be  seen,  and  cement  the  edges 
with  white  of  eggs ;  serve  it  veiy  hot. 

Any  other  sort  of  farce  may  be  applied  in  the  same  manner. 

1133.— SATOT  OMELET. 

Break  six  eggs  in  a  basin,  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  shalots,  a 
little  chopped  ham  and  mushrooms,  a  few  grains  of  an^  kind  of 
dried  sifted  sweetherbs,  and  half  a  gill  of  cream,  or  a  little  good 
white  sauce,  pepper  and  salt ;  put  in  your  omelet-pan  two  ounces  of 
butter  to  get  quite  hot,  add  to  your  omelet  about  eight  pieces  of 


286  EQG8  AKD  OMELETA. 

butter  broken  as  small  as  a  nut,  beat  all  well  together,  put  it  into 
your  very  hot  butter,  keeping  frequently  forcing  your  knife  in  Tarioos 
parts  to  the  bottoni  of  the  pan,  when  all  is  nearly  dried  np  shake  it 
and  empty  it  on  your  dish  half  turned  over ;  either  send  up  a  good 
sauce,  as  may  be  preferred,  or  garnish  it  dry  and  send  it  on  a  napkin. 


1134. — A  SIBCFLE   AND   PLAIN   SWEET   OMELET. 

Break  up  six  eggs  in  a  basin,  a  few  grains  of  salt,  a  grating  of  a 
lemon,  a  piece  of  citron,  orange,  and  lemon  peel  chopped  fine,  a  gill 
of  cream,  some  pounded  sugar,  a  little  orange  flower  water,  a  few 
grains  of  grated  nutmeg ;  fry  it  as  other  omelets,  trim  it  and  roll  it 
up ;  if  approved  of,  put  apricot  jam  in  it,  dish  it  upon  a  napkin* 


'     1135. — ^APPLE  SOUFFLE  WITH  BICE. 

Blanch  half  a  pound  of  the  best  rice  in  scalding  water^  strain 
it  clear,  boil  it  in  sufficient  milk  to  cover  it,  to  this  add  a  little  lemon 
peel  and  a  small  bit  of  cinnamon,  let  it  boil  until  the  rice  has 
absorbed  the  milk,  turn  it  into  a  dish,  and  when  cool  raise  a  wall 
with  it  about  three  inches  high,  having  first  taken  the  precaution 
to  egg  the  dish  to  make  it  stick  firmly,  smooth  the  rice  to  an  even 
sufiice,  then  egg  it  all  over,  fill  the  dish  half  way  up  the  wall  of 
rice  with  apple  marmalade ;  beat  to  a  fine  froth  the  whites  of  four 
eggs,  poor  them  over  the  marmalade,  then  sift  powdered  white  sugar 
over  it,  put  it  into  die  oven,  keep  up  an  even  heat  to  give  it  a  fine 
colour. 


1136.— CUSTARD  SOUFFLES. 

Put  two  ounces  of  rice  fiour,  and  two  of  butter  into  a  saucepan, 
mix  them  well  together,  and  add  to  them  four  ounces  of  powdered 
white  sugar,  and  two  glasses  of  cream  in  which  a  little  vanilla  has 
been  infused  to  flavour  it,  boil  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  like  a  cream 
pdiissiere^  put  to  them  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  two  spoonfuls  oF 
whipped  cream,  and  the  four  whites  beaten  firm.  Make  the  paste 
for  the  moulds  the  same  as  petits  pdtes  a  la  hechamelU,  and  when 
half  baked  pour  in  your  preparation,  and  finish  them ;  when  done 
serve  immediately.  These  souffles  may  be  made  with  any  fruit,  or 
flavoured  with  any  ingredient  you  may  please. 


1137- — OMELET   SOUFFLE. 

Break  six  eggs,  leave  out  the  whites,  put  them  in  a  cold  place, 
add  to  the  yolks  a  little  powdered  sugar,  a  little  grated  lemon,  a 
little  nutmeg,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  beat  all  well  together, 
add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream,  then  beat  up  the  six  whites  very  stiff", 
put  a  piece  of  butter  in  your  omelet-pan  upon  a  slow  fire,  whea 
warm  pour  in  the  omelet,  mix  in  your  whites  very  gently,  torn  it  out 
on  your  dish,  glaze  it  with  pounded  sugar>  put  it  in  the  oven,  sprinkle 
more  sugar,  and  send  it  up. 


BOGS  Aim  oisxj^Kn.  287 

1138. — ORUfOE   S0C7FL£. 

Made  nitli  orange  jellf.  Before  your  jellj  quite  aeta  get  your 
wliuk  and  whip  it  until  it  begins  to  set,  it  will  come  up  very  light, 
then  put  it  into  your  mould,  hut  this  is  best  done  after  the  jelly 
hu  been  to  table,  and  what  you  have  left  will  do. 


288  BUTTEB,  0HEE8E,  ETC* 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

BUTTER,  CHEESE,  ETC. 

1139. — BTTTTEB — TO   OLARXPT. 

Scrape  off  the  outsides  of  the  butter  yoa  may  require  and  then 
put  it  into  a  stewpan  by  the  side  of  a  slow  fire,  where  it  must  remain 
till  the  scum  rises  to  the  top  and  the  milk  settles  at  the  bottom; 
carefully  with  a  spoon  take  off  the  scum,  when  clear  it  is  fit  for 
use. 


1140. — BUTTER  PRESEBYED   FOR  WIKTER. 

Take  two  parts  of  the  best  common  salt,  one  part  of  good  loaf 
sugar,  and  one  part  saltpetre,  beat  them  well  together ;  to  sixteen 
ounces  of  butter  thoroughly  cleansed  from  the  milk  put  one  ounce 
of  the  above  composition,  work  it  well,  and  put  it  into  pots  when. 
quite  firm  and  cold. 


1141 . — BUTTER  BORDERS— COMMON. 

If  you  haye  no  Montpelier  butter,  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
fresh  butter,  work  it  up  well  with  a  knife,  mixing  with  it  either  of 
the  following  colouring  materials ;  for  rose  colour,  a  little  infusion 
of  carmine,  or  any  vegetable  red ;  green,  spinach  juice ;  yellow,  an 
infusion  of  saffron ;  violet,  a  little  Prussian  blue  added  to  the  red ; 
orange,  red  and  yellow  joined. 

1142. — COLD  BUTTERS  FOR  CHEESE    OR   BREAKFAST. 

This  you  can  make  up  into  many  pretty  forms,  as  small  pats,  in 
shape  of  a  pine,  making  the  roughness  with  a  silver  fork,  and  some 
done  on  a  cnmping-board,  and  rolled  on  a  cut  pattern,  either  with 
name  or  crest,  or  scooped  with  the  bowl  of  a  spoon,  then  dipping  the 
spoon  in  salt  and  water  each  time,  it  w^ill  form  a  shell,  if  sent  up  by 
itself,  put  parsley  round,  it  may  be  used  with  anchovies,  potted 
meate,  or  grated  beef,  or  tongue,  or  radishes.  Sec 

1143. — MELTED   BUTTER  WITHOUT   BOILING. 

Two  ounces  of  butter  mixed  up  into  a  cream,  then  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  a  gill  of  celd  water,  stir  it  over  the  fire  until 
quite  thick,  but  it  must  not  boiL 


BUTTEB,  CHEESE,  ETC.  289 

CHEESE. 

8d  takes  an  important  place  at  the  table ;  not  alone,  in  its 
place  at  the  close  of  the  dinner,  but  that  it  forms  the 
ion  of  many  excellent  dishes.  The  selection  of  good  cheese 
9  both  judgment  and  experience;  a  delicate  palate  and  a 
nse  of  smell  are  two  essential  requisites,  while  the  eye  is  an 
it  to  point  out  those  defects  independent  of  taste  or  smell, 
e  cheese  is  readily  told  by  a  connoisseur  by  the  colour  and 
,  without  consulting  either  nose  or  palate, 
inexperienced  are  apt  to  be  deceived  in  cheeses  of  the  finest 
;  when  testing  it  by  the  taster  the  smell  is  strong,  and  the 
}rid,  it  is  therefore  rejected,  whereas  if  cut  and  suffered  to 
for  two  or  three  days  in  a  dry  closet,  exposed  to  the  air,  the 
would  become  both  pure  and  agreeable.  To  avoid  this 
le  best  plan  is  to  lay  in  a  stock  of  Cheshire  cheese,  keep  it 
y  cellar  in  a  box,  bury  it  in  saw-dust,  and  in  about  three 
it  will  be  greatly  improved,  and  fit  to  cut.  Divide  a  cheese 
ro  halves,  or  take  out  one-fourth,  according  to  the  con-^ 
>n,  and  cover  the  cut  parts  of  the  cheese  reserved  with 
or  lay  close  to  the  sides  cut  a  buttered  paper,  and  keep  the 
in  a  dry  place ;  the  part  in  use  should  be  exposed  in  the 
or  about  tiiree  days,  it  will  then  be  ready  for  the  table. 


CnESUinE   CHEESE 

inest  flavoured  of  the  English  cheeses,  although  Stilton  is 
upon  as  the  jgreatest  luxury. 


STILXON   CHEESE 

lly  made  in  the  spring,  and  appears  at  table  at  Christmas ; 
wever  all  the  better  for  being  kept  at  least  twelve  months 
ise.  Various  modes  are  employed  to  improve  the  flavour. 
I  of  Cheshire  affected  by  mites  is  inserted  in  an  aperture, 
pped  with  a  wet  cloth ;  in  a  month  it  ripens  the  cheese,  and 
on  vivans  will  go  into  ecstacies  when  taking  it  as  a  relish 
;lass  of  old  port.  Another  mode  is  to  make  an  excavation 
hape  of  an  inverted  cone,  and  pour  into  the  hollowed  space 
isses  of  port,  claret,  or  Madeira,  according  to  fancy;  this 
uffered  to  soak  in  for  three  weeks  or  a  month  is  considered 
;  the  cheese  to  a  state  of  unapproaghable  perfection.  This 
it  many  palates  it  is  true,  but  the  purity  of  the  flavour  is 
3d;  the  best  judges  and  the  best  makers  aver  the  finest 
is  that  which  ripens  without  adventitious  aid. 


NOBTK    WILTSniKE 

and  of  fine  flavour ;  they  are  flt  for  table,  if  carefully  kept, 
months. 


DOUBLE   QLOTTCESTEB 

an  excellent  cheese,  noted  for  making  Welsh  rabbits ;  [» 
od  for  a  stew ;  it  comes  to  perfection  in  about  ten  months. 

U 


290  BUTTSB,  CHEESBy  ETC. 


BDXQJM  GLOVCESTER. 

This  if  well  made  is  of  a  delicate  and  £ne  flayour^  it  it  a^< 
perfection  in  six  months.     This  is  the  cheese  used  at  tayems 
Welsh  rabbits. 


PERBT   CHEESB 

Is  of  an  agreeable  colour,  a  fine  texture,  and  by  epicures  is 
considered  the  best  toasting  cheese ;  it  is  ready  for  Uible  in  ten 
twelve  months. 


CHEDDAB   CREB8E 

Is  in  excellent  repute  at  good  tables ;  it  is  ripe  for  use  from  nine  to 
tweWe  months. 


DUNLOF   CHEESE. 

A  Scotch  cheese  made  in  Ayrshire,  it  is  held  in  high  estimatioo 
at  the  best  tables  in  Scotland. 


CBRAM   CHEESES. 

There  are  several  sorts,  the  Cottenham^  an  exquisite  ilayour ;  tfct 
Bath,  yery  fine  when  prime ;  the  Dewmthire,  the  Stilton^  and  muj 
others ;  they  arc  thin  in  form  and  should  be  eaten  new. 


FOREIGN   CHEESES. 

That  which  for  years  has  borne  the  highest  reputation  is  tlie 
Parmesan,  made  at  Parma,  in  Italy;  and  it  still  maintains  its 
position.  Formerly  the  manufacture  of  this  cheese  was  confined 
to  the  dairies  of  Parma  and  Piacenza,  and  there  the  best  cheestf 
were  made,  but  the  district  of  Lodi  has  now  run  away  with  tbi 
palm. 


GRUTERE   CirSESE 

Is  a  production  of  Switzerland,  the  Rochrfori  is  from  ewes'  roHk, 
the  Neitfchatel,  a  French  cheese.  They  are  esteemed  delicade?. 
but  to  the  palate  of  a  connoisseur  and  gastronomist,  a  fine  old 
English  Cheshire  stands  unrivalled. 

Cream  cheeses  for  keeping  should  be  placed  between  two  plate* 
to  ripen,  they  should  be  covered  every  morning  with  fresh  leave* 
from  the  garden,  and  at  the  same  time  turned. 

Where  much  cheese  is  kept  in  stock,  a  rack  should  be  made  fox 
them,  and  space  left  between  them.  They  are  greatly  improved  by 
being  put  upon  a  wine  cask,  brushing  and  turning  them  once  a 
week,  or  should  there  be  no  wine  in  cask  the  beer  cask  will  serve, 
it  will  ripen  and  mellow  the  cheese ;  they  should  be  occasionally 
turned.  Use  the  ripened  and  mellowed  first,  and  take  the  cheese 
from  the  rack  to  the  table  as  it  is  wanted. 

The  best  cheeses  have  thin  coats,  and  weigh  heavier  in  proportion 
to  their  siace. 

The  round  Dutch  cheese  of  the  best  quality  and  not  over  sett 


[ 


BUTTEB,  CHEESE,   ETC.  291 

le  uted  £or  toasting ;  cheeses  made  of  skim  milk  have  been 
lered  best  for  that  purpose,  many  even  preferring  them  to  the 
Wiltshire,  the  richest  and  fattest  of  the  English  cheeses. 
I  mites  have  taken  possession  of  a  cheese,  and  this  is  con- 
d  objectionable,  the  following  receipt,  by  a  Derbyshire  lady, 
ave  ihe  effect  of  destroying  them  without  injury  to  the  cheese. 
le  the  cheese,  put  it  into  a  pot  in  which  mutton  has  been 
i  whilst  the  water  is  yet  hot,  make  the  water  boil  a  few 
Is,  take  out  the  cheese,  wipe  it  immediately,  dry  it,  and  then 
away  in  a  dry  place  until  required  for  use. 


1144.---TOA8T8   OP   CHEESE. 

;  some  clarified  butter  with  some  grated  Parmesan  cheese  or 
3ster,  and  a  little  rcady>made  mustard,  a  little  black  pepper, 
lyenne  pepper;  prepare  some  neatly  cut  toast  thin,  then 
the  mixture  upon  them ;  sprinkle  grated  cheese  upon  the 
each  dish  upon  a  napkin. 


1145. — POTTED   CHEESE. 

ipe  and  pound  either  or  both  Parmesan  and  Cheshire  cheese, 
.  piece  of  butter,  cayenne  pepper,  a  few  grains  of  pounded 
a  tea-spoonful  of  sifted  sugar,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  a 
alt,  press  it  into  your  potting  jar  for  shape. 


1146. — APBIOOT  CHEESE,   TO  HAKE. 

c  and  pare  thinly  a  number  of  apricots,  take  their  weight  and 
them  an  equal  weight  of  fine  white  sugar,  the  latter  must  be 
aed  a  little,  and  then  boil  together  very  quickly,  add  the 
i  blanched,  let  it  boil  for  half  an  hour,  not  longer,  half  fill 
ars  and  cover  down  for  future  use. 


1147.-— CHEESE  ABTTPICIAL. 

I  pound  some  nutmeg,  mace,  and  cinnamon,  to  which  add  a 
of  new  milk,  two  quarts  of  cream,  boil  these  in  the  milk, 
lut  in  eight  eggs,  six  or  eight  spoonfuls  of  wine  vinegar 
L  the  milk,  let  it  boil  till  it  comes  to  a  curd,  tie  it  up  in  a 
cloth,  and  let  it  hang  six  or  eight  hours  to  drain,  then  open 
r  oat  the  spice,  sweeten  it  with  sugar  and  rose  water,  put  it 
cullender,  let  it  stand  an  hour  more,  then  turn  it  out  and 
t  up  in  a  dish  with  cream  under  it. 


1148. — CHEESE   BRIOCHE. 

e  a  brioche  in  the  usual  way,  and  when  ready  to  bake  spread 
the  board,  and  strew  over  some  Gruyere  cheese  cut  into  dice, 
er  of  a  pound  of  cheese  to  a  pound  of  brioche  paste,  roll  it 
ce  off  an  eighth  part  and  put  the  largest  portion  into  the 
and  case,  clarify  it,  then  take  the  rest  of  the  brioche  and 

u  2 


292  BUTTEB,  CHEESE,  ETC. 

place  it  on  the  top  so  as  to  fonn  a  sort  of  head  to  the  other,  dariff 
and  trim  it  when  it  has  heen  in  the  oven  two  hours,  take  it  out 
gently,  and  if  the  head  be  not  detached  from  the  rest,  remove  it 
lightly,  lay  over  paper,  and  replace  it  in  the  oven  as  qxiickly  as  jott 
can  to  finish  baking. 

1149. — CHEESB  AS  ICED  BVTTBB. 

Take  a  pint  of  cream,  with  some  grated  lemon-peel,  and  a  good 
spoonful  of  orange  flower  water,  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  when 
taken  off  the  fire  add  the  yolks  of  a  dozen  eggs  well  beat  up, 
and  mix  together  without  boiling;  sift  through  a  sieve,  and  put 
into  an  icing -pan  to  freeze,  working  it  the  same  as  ices,  it  must  be 
iced  in  such  a  manner  that  you  can  serve  it  with  a  spoon,  like  pats 
of  butter  stamped,  and  bits  of  clear  ice  between  to  look  like 
crystals. 

1150. CHBKSE  CBAB. 

Take  some  Cheshire  or  double  Gloucester,  cut  them  into  thin 
slices  and  press  them  with  a  knife  until  you  can  spread  it  like 
butter;  add  mustard,  common  and  Chili  vinegar,  cayenne  pepper,  and 
salt,  essence  of  anchovies,  any  fish  sauce  you  think  proper,  mix  it 
well  together  to  a  thick  piilp. 

1151. — CBAY   FISH   CHEESB. 

Having  washed  and  boiled  the  fish,  take  off  the  small  claws  and 
tails  and  set  them  aside,  chop  the  meat  that  remains  in  the  sheUs 
with  some  other  fish,  artichoke  bottoms,  sweet  herbs,  and  butter; 
mix  them  well,  and  put  it  in  a  dish  in  the  form  of  a  small  cheese, 
round  which  lay  the  tails ;  cover  it  with  bread  crumbs,  and  coloux 
it  in  the  oven  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 


1152. CHEESE  CBEAM. 

Take  three  pints  of  cream,  add  salt  sufficient  to  season  it,  mix  it 
well,  fold  a  cheese  cloth  three  or  four  times  and  lay  it  at  the  bottom 
of  a  sieve  and  pour  the  cream  into  it,  when  it  hardens  cover  it  with 
nettles  on  a  pewter  plate. 


1153.— CHEESE   CBEAM,   A   PLAIN   FAMILY   WAY. 

Put  three  half  pints  of  milk  to  one  half  pint  of  cream,  warm,  or 
according  to  the  same  proportions,  and  put  in  a  little  rennet; 
keep  it  covered  in  a  warm  place,  till  it  is  curdled ;  have  a  mould 
with  holes,  either  of  china  or  any  other,  put  the  curds  into 
it  to  drain  about  an  hour,  serve  with  a  good  plain  cream  and 
pounded  sugar  over  it. 

1154.— CHEESE  CREAM  AND  MABMALADE. 

Boil  a  pint  of  cream,  mix  it  with  any  kind  of  marmalade  you 
please,*  a  few  spoonfuls  will  be  sufficient,  and  a  little  dried  pre* 


BUTTSB,  CHEESE,  ETC.  293 

Berved  lemon-peel  chopped  fine ;  when  it  is  hut  just  lukewarm  put 
some  rennet  to  it»  and  serve  with  pounded  sugar  over  it. 


1I55.^-CHEESE   CREAM   ICED. 

Boil  half  a  pint  of  cream,  then  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  it,  a 
dozen  of  sweet  almonds  pounded,  a  little  orange  flower  water,  and 
rasped  lemon -peel,  hoil  together  a  few  minutes ;  when  you  take  it 
off  the  fire  add  five  yolks  of  eggs  heat  up,  and  stir  it  frequently  till 
they  are  well  mixed  with  the  cream ;  strain  it  in  a  sieve,  and  put  it 
into  the  icing-pot ;  when  it  is  pretty  well  iced,  work  it  well  to  put 
it  into  cheese-moulds,  ice  it  again  and  serve.  It  is  also  done  with 
coffee  and  chocolate  in  the  same  manner  as  the  ices,  only  that  each 
is  thickened  with  four  or  five  yolks  of  eggs  as  directed  in  the  first, 
and  moulded  like  a  cheese,  which  gives  it  the  name. 


1156.— CHEESE   CBEAM — ^ANOTHER   RECKIPT. 

Take  a  auart  of  cream  and  twelve  quarts  of  new  milk,  put  rennet 
Just  enough  to  turn  it,  and  let  the  milk  and  cream  be  just  warm ; 
when  it  has  stood  till  curd  has  come,  lay  a  cloth  in  the  vat  the  size 
of  the  cream,  cut  out  the  curd  with  a  skimmer,  dish  and  put  it  into 
the  vat  till  it  is  full,  turn  the  cheese  cloth  over  it,  and  as  the  curd 
settles  lay  on  until  you  have  got  enough  to  make  one  cheese.  When 
the  whey  is  drained  off  turn  the  cheese  into  a  dry  cloth,  and  then 
lay  on  it  a  pound  weight  at  night,  turn  it  out  into  another  cloth,  and 
the  next  morning  salt  it  a  very  little,  then  having  made  a  bed  of 
nettles  or  ash  leaves  to  lay  it  on,  cover  it  with  the  same,  shifting  it 
twice  a  day  for  about  ten  days  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 


1157. CAITLTFLOWEES   AND   CHEESE. 

Make  a  sauce  with  cullis,  a  bit  of  butter  and  pepper,  but  not  salt, 
put  in  a  dish  some  grated  Parmesan  or  Gruyere  cheese,  place  the 
cauliflowers  that  have  been  nicely  boiled  on  this,  pour  the  sauce 
over,  and  cover  them  with  slices  of  Parmesan  cheese  warmed  to 
make  them  stick  to  the  cauliflowers,  colour  it  with  a  salamander. 


1158. CARDOONS  IX  CHEESE. 

Add  to  the  sauce  in  which  the  cardoons  are  cooked,  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  and  put  it  over  them  when  placed  in  the  dish, 
coTcr  them  with  bread  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  pour  melted 
batter  over  the  whole,  colour  it  in  the  oven  or  with  a  salamander. 


1159. — DAMSON    CHEESE. 

Take  eight  pounds  of  damsons,  and  bake  them  in  a  jar  till  they 
are  tender,  then  rub  them  through  a  cullender,  put  to  them  one 
pound  and  a  half  of  lump  sugar,  and  let  them  boil  to  the  thickness 
of  marmalade. 


294  BUTTER,  CHEESE,   ETC 

1160. — DAMSOK  CHEESE. 

Fill  a  stone  jar  or  pan  with  damsons,  tie  them  orer  widi  paper,  to 
this  allow  only  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fniit,  place  the 
pan  of  fruit  without  sugar  into  the  oven  to  stew,  strain  the  fruit  upon 
a  sieve,  take  out  some  kernels  to  hlanch  to  he  added  to  the  jam,  mb 
the  damson  through  a  hair  or  a  wire  sieve,  reduce  the  ^nip  bj 
boiling  it  to  one  half,  then  put  in  your  sugar  and  kernels  ana  tiie 
fruit  you  have  rubbed  through,  boil  it  gently  for  some  time  until  it 
begins  to  candy  at  the  sides  of  your  preserving-pan,  tlien  poor  tha 
jam  into  moulds  or  small  potting  pots. 


1161.—- CHEESE   ENTREES. 

For  entrees  Parmesan  should  be  made  use  of,  it  should  be  grated, 
and  meat  or  fish  that  you  serve  it  with  must  be  cooked  a  la  braise 
or  en  ragout ;  very  little  salt  must  be  used  in  the  sauce  or  meat, 
as  Parmesan  is  very  salt ;  put  into  the  bottom  of  the  dish  in  which 
you  arc  going  to  serve  your  meat,  some  of  the  sauce  you  intend  to 
use  with  your  meat,  then  stew  with  grated  cheese,  place  your  meat 
upon  this,  pour  over  this  the  remainder  of  the  sauce,  and  cover  the 
whole  with  Parmesan,  then  put  it  in  the  oven  to  brown,  and  serve 
with  a  thick  sauce,  cauliflowers  and  Spanish  cardoons  may  be 
served  in  the  same  manner  for  entremets. 


1162.— CHEESE,   FBE8H. 

Sweeten  two  quarts  of  cream  with  sugar,  boil  it  thin,  then  put  in 
some  damask  rose-water,  keep  it  stirred  that  it  may  not  bunL 
When  it  is  thickened  and  turned  take  it  off  the  fire,  wash  the 
strainer  and  cheese-vat  with  rose-water,  then  roll  your  curd  back- 
wards and  forwards  in  the  strainer  to  drain  the  whey  from  it,  then 
put  the  curd  into  the  vat  as  soon  as  it  is  cool,  slip  it  into  the 
cheese-dish  with  some  of  the  whey,  and  serve  it. 


1163.^-CHEESE   FRITTEBS. 

Take  some  mild  brie  or  gruyere  cheese,  add  some  milk  and  butter, 
and  put  the  whole  into  a  saucepan,  put  to  these  ingredients  flour, 
eggs,  and  sugar,  make  into  a  paste,  of  which  form  your  fritters,  fry 
them  of  a  nice  colour  and  serve,  then  sprinkle  with  sugar,  a  smaU 
quantity  of  orange  flowers  may  be  added. 


1164.^-CHEESE   MABIOOLD. 

Take  some  of  the  freshest  and  best  coloured  leaves,  pound  them 
in  a  mortar  and  strain  out  the  juice,  put  this  into  mUk  with  the 
rennet.  The  milk  being  set  and  the  curd  produced,  break  it  as 
gently  and  as  equally  as  you  can,  put  it  into  the  cheese.  Tat  and 
press  it  with  a  pound  weight,  there  being  such  a  mnnber  of  holes 
in  the  bottom  part  of  the  vat  as  will  let  the  whey  out  easily.  They 
must  be  finished  as  all  other  cheese. 


BUTTEBy   OHBESE,   ETC.  295 


1165.— CHSE8B  MACAEONI. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  new 
milk,  put  it  in  a  stewpan,  and  let  it  stew  till  quite  tender,  take  half 
a  pound  of  Parmesan,  grate  it,  add  it  to  the  macaroni,  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  cayenne,  according  to 
taste,  mix  them  well  together,  and  let  them  stew  ten  minutes,  brown 
with  a  salamander,  and  serve. 


1166. ONIONS   WITH   FABMESAN   CHEESE. 

Take  six  large  onions,  pare  them  and  cut  them  in  slices  half  an 
inch  in  thickness,  then  make  a  batter  with  flour,  half  a  gill  of  cream, 
a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  three  eggs,  beat  it  up  for  ten  minutes,  after 
which  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Parmesan  cheese  grated  fine,  and 
mix  well  together,  to  which  add  the  onions,  have  ready  some  boil* 
ing  lard,  then  take  the  onions  out  of  the  batter  with  a  fork  singly, 
and  fry  them  nicely  till  of  a  nice  brown,  drain  them  dry  and  serve 
them  placed  round  each  other ;  for  sauce,  a  little  melted  butter  with 
mustard  in  it. 


1167. — CHEESE  PASTE. 

Take  a  cream  cheese,  flour,  a  little  butter,  three  eggs,  and  some 
good  cream,  make  it  into  a  paste ;  you  must  judge  the  quantity  of 
flour  according  to  the  quantity  of  cheese  and  consistency  you  would 
hare  the  paste. 


1168. CHEESE  POUNDED. 

Cut  into  thin  bits  a  poimd  of  mellow  Cheddar  or  North  Wilts,  or 
Oieshire  cheese ;  if  the  cheese  is  dry  add  to  it  three  ounces  of  fresh 
batter,  if  moist  two  ounces  will  be  sufficient,  pound  and  rub  them  in  a 
mortar  well  together  till  they  are  quite  smooth.  Spread  on  bread  it 
makes  a  nice  luncheon  or  supper ;  you  may  if  you  like  pound  with 
it  carry-powder,  ground  spice,  black  pepper,  cayenne,  a  little  made 
mostard,  moisten  with  a  glass  of  sherry ;  if  pressed  down  close  in  a 
jar  and  covered  with  clarifled  butter,  it  will  keep  for  several  days 
in  cool  weather. 


1169. — CHEESE  PUFFS. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  cheese  curd  strained  from  the  whey,  with  a 
^>oonful  and  a  half  of  flour,  three  eggs,  leave  out  the  whites  of 
two,  a  spoonful  of  orange  flower  water,  a  quarter  of  a  nutmeg,  and 
sugar  to  make  it  sweet;  beat  it  in  a  mortar;  lay  a  little  of  this 
paste  in  very  small  round  cakes  on  a  tin  plate ;  if  the  oven  is  hot, 
they  will  take  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  bake  them,  serve  them  with 
padding  sauce. 

1170. — POBK  CHBESE. 

Take  a  pig*s  head,  and  having  boned  it,  cut  all  the  meat  into 
laHier  thick  slices,  do  the  same  with  the  ear,  separate  the  fat  from 


296  BUTT£B»  CHB£S£,  ETC. 


the  lean,  and  mix  the  whole  with  baj  lea(  thyme,  basil,  sage,  and 
parsley,  all  shred  fine,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  other  spices,  the 
peel  and  juice  of  a  lemon ;  lay  the  skin  of  the  head  open  over  a 
salad  bowl,  arrange  the  pieces  in  it,  mixing  with  them  a  little  beef 
tongue  a  Tecarlate,  and  truffles,  when  all  are  put  in  wrap  the  skm 
round  them,  sew  it  up  very  tight,  and  dress  it  as  directed  for  hog's 
head ;  when  done  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  whilst  warm  put  it  in  a 
mould  to  give  any  shape  you  like. 


1171. — POBK   CHEESE,    ITALIAN. 

Pound  a  pig's  liver  with  two  thirds  bacon  and  one  third  beef, 
when  they  are  thoroughly  incorporated  add  to  them  shred  thyme, 
9age,  basil,  a  bay  leaf,  parsley,  coriander  spice,  anise  powder,  grated 
nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper,  line  a  mould  with  curd,  into  which  put  the 
above  preparation ;  cover  it  with  thin  slices  of  bacon,  and  bake  it, 
when  done  leave  it  to  cool  in  the  mould. 


1 172.— CHEESE,   TO   FBESERVE   SOUND. 

'^  Wash  it  in  warm  whey  once  a  month,  wipe  it,  and  keep  it  on  a 
rack,  if  you  wish  it  to  ripen  keep  it  in  a  damp  cellar,  which  will 
bring  it  forward:  when  a  whole  cheese  is  cut,  the  largest  pi^oe 
shomd  be  spread  inside  with  butter,  and  the  outside  should  be 
wiped  to  preserve  it ;  to  keep  that  which  is  in  daily  use  moist,  Ist 
a  dean  cloth  be  wetted  and  wrapped  round  the  cheese  when  canted 
from  table. 


1173. — CHEESE   BOASTED,   TO   COME   UP   AFTEB  DINNER, 

Mix  three  ounces  of  grated  Cheshire  cheese,  the  yolks  of  two 
eggS)  four  ounces  of  butter,  and  three  ounces  of  grated  bread,  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  mustard,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  beat  the  whole 
well  in  a  mortar,  toast  some  bread,  cut  it  into  proper  pieces,  lay  the 
paste  as  above  thick  upon  them,  put  them  in  a  Dutch  oven  covered 
with  a  dish  till  hot  through,  remove  the  dish  and  let  the  cheese 
brown  a  little,  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 


1174. — KICE   CHEESE. 

Take  a  pound  of  rice,  boil  it  till  it  becomes  thick  as  hasty  pud- 
ding in  rather  less  than  half  a  pint  of  milk,  pour  it  hot  on  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  butter,  the  same  weight  of  Lisbon  sugar,  mixing  it 
well  together ;  let  it  stand  till  cold,  then  add  one  egg,  and  the  yoDt 
of  another,  and  a  little  white  wine. 


1175.^-CHEESE   SOUFFLE. 

Take  three  ounces  of  flour  and  two  of  butter,  put  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  one  egg,  mix  them  together  with  a  pint  of  milk,  and 
set  it  on  the  fire  till  it  begins  to  boil,  if  too  thick  add  a  little  more 
milk,,  then  break  in  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  a  ^  of  cream,  when 


BUTTElt,   CHBESE,   BTC.  209 

these  are  all  mixed,  stir  in  gently  two  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan 
dieese  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
with  three  more,  and  finish  as  if  for  souffles;  when  this  light 
batter  is  put  in  paper  cases  it  is  called  '^  bondues  au  fromage."* 

1176. — CHEESE,    SAGE. 

Take  the  tops  of  young  red  sage,  bruise  in  a  mortar  with  some 
leaves  of  spinach,  squeeze  the  juice,  mix  it  with  the  rennet  in  the 
milk,  more  or  less,  as  you  like  it,  for  colour  and  taste ;  when  the 
curd  is  come  break  it  gently,  and  put  it  in  with  the  skimmer  till  it 
is  pressed  two  inches  above  the  vat,  press  it  eight  or  ten  hours,  salt 
ity  and  turn  every  day. 

1177* CHEESE   STEWED. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Cheshire  and  Gloucester  cheese, 
cut  it  small  and  lay  it  in  a  stewpan,  add  a  gill  of  Lisbon  wine,  a 
tea-spoonful  of  water,  and  if  liked  one  of  mustard,  mix  them  over  a 
fire  till  the  cheese  is  dissolved,  then  have  ready  a  cheese-plate,  "with 
a  lighted  lamp  beneath,  put  the  mixture  in  it  and  serve  it  up 
directly,  send  with  it  some  fresh  toasted  bread. 

1178. — STILTOK  CHBXSE. 

Take  the  night's  cream  and  the  morning  milk,  mix  them 
together  with  the  rennet ;  when  the  curd  is  produced,  it  must  not 
be  broken  as  is  done  with  other  cheeses,  but  take  it  out  with  a  soil 
dish  altogether,  and  place  it  in  the  sieve  to  drain,  gradually  press 
it  till  it  becomes  firm  and  dry,  then  place  it  in  a  wooden  hoop, 
and  afterwards  keep  it  dry  on  boards,  turning  it  often  with  cloUi 
hinders  round  it,  which  are  to  be  tightened  as  occasion  requires; 
in  some  dairies  Uie  cheese,  after  being  taken  out  of  the  hoop,  is 
.boimd  round  with  a  cloth  tight;  this  cloth  should  be  changed 
daily,  until  the  cheese  becomes  firm  enough  to  support  itself;  after 
the  cloth  is  taken  off  it  must  be  rubbed  every  day  all  over  with  a 
brush  for  three  months,  and  if  the  weather  is  moist  or  damp,  twice 
diuly,  and  even  before  the  cloth  is  taken  off  the  top  and  bottom 
must  be  rubbed  every  day. 

1179. — CHEESE  80t7P. 

Take  a  dish  that  will  bear  the  fire,  and  spread  over  the  bottom 
of  it  gruyere  cheese  cut  small,  with  pieces  of  fresh  butter  strewed 
about  it,  cover  this  with  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  lay  bread,  butter, 
and  cheese  alternately  until  you  have  enough,  taking  care  to  finish 
with  the  butter  and  cheese ;  moisten  these  layers  with  stock,  and 
let  them  simmer  until  it  is  burnt  to  the  bottom  and  the  liquor  is 
evaporated ;  when  about  to  send  it  to  table  add  more  stock,  with  a 
little  pepper,  and  let  the  potage  be  rather  thick. 

1180.^-CHS£SE   TOAST. 

Take  aome  butter,  made  mustard,  and  salt,  mix  it  in  a  mass, 
iipread  it  on  thin  fresh  made  toast,  and  grate  Gloucester  cheese. 


298  BDTTBB,  CHEESE,  ETC. 

1181.— CIIES9B  TOASTED,   OR  A  SCOTCH   BABBIT. 

Toast  a  slice  or  bread,  butter  it,  toast  a  ulice  of  cheese  oa  botb 
Bides,  and  sene  it  on  the  bread. 

1182.— CHEESE  TOASTED,  OB   A.  WELSH   BABBIT. 

Take  a  slice  of  bread  and  nicely  toast  h,  toast  a  slice  of  choew 
on  one  side,  lay  it  on  tbe  toast,  and,  with  a  hot  salamandei,  brown 
it,  and  rub  some  mustard  over  it. 

1183. — ^WELSH   RABBIT^  AHOTHER  WAY. 

Toast  a  slice  of  bread  quick  on  both  sides  and  butter  it,  toait 
a  slice  of  Gloucester  cheese  on  one  side,  then  lay  that  side  unoB 
your  bread,  then  hold  a  hot  salumander,  or  shovel  over  the  other  side, 
spread  it  with  mnstard  and  b  little  pepper,  keep  it  hot,  and  eorac  it 


1184.— BALIIWIH's   FBOIUOERE   FOB   TOASTING  CUBBSX. 

Here  we  have  a  very  elegant  arrangement  foi  toasting  cbeest 
^on  our  own  supper  table.  Amongst  other  good  pomts  it  poaaeean 
ID6  desideratum  worthy  of  mention, — the  cheese  never  gets  burnt. 


B1BECT10H8  FOB  DSIHO   THE   FB0HA0»:B1S. 

Place  the  iron  heater,  a,  when  nd  hot,  in  the  receptacle,  ont^e 
of  which  poor  about  a  pint  of  boiling  water.    Put  oa  tbe  dish  o,  on 


BUTTEBy  CHEESE^   BTC  299 

which  good  cheese,  cut  in  thin  slices,  must  he  placed ;  put  on  the 
cover,  and  in  ahout  five  minutes  the  cheese  will  he  fit  for  senring.  c 
represents  the  handle  for  shifting  the  heater. 


1185. — ^TIMBALE   OF   MACABOKI,   SHALL   AND   LARGE. 

For  small  timbales  for  entrees,  butter  six  little  moulds,  put  a  slice 
of  truffle  at  the  bottom  of  the  mould,  or  little  round  pieces  all  round 
the  bottom,  laying  one  piece  on  the  other ;  when  done  put  a  very 
small  piece  of  quenelle,  spread  thinly  on  the  top  of  the  truffle,  then 
bare  ready  cut  pieces  of  macaroni,  previously  boiled  and  dried 
in  a  cloth,  all  of  an  equal  size ;  place  them  round  your  mould,  the 
end  of  the  macaroni  with  the  bole  to  the  side  of  the  mould, 
letting  it  touch  the  mould.  AVhen  you  have  got  round  with  the 
macaroni,  the  mould,  if  a  big  one,  should  have  a  well  to  it,  then  put 
thinly  some  more  quenelle,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese,  and  so  proceed  as  at  first,  until  the  moulds  are  full ; 
then  twist  butter  paper  over  your  mould,  and  steam  a  large  one 
one  hour,  the  small  one  less  time ;  the  hole  in  the  middle  of  the 
big  mould  when  turned  out  upon  the  dish  will  be  filled  with  pre- 
pared crumbs,  sweetbread,  truffles,  and  mushrooms,  the  small  ones 
vnll  have  truffles,  or  mushroom  sauce,  or  any  good  sauce  that  may 
be  prepared,  pound  in  the  dish,  the  truffle  top  to  be  glazed. 


1 186. — MACARONI  BROWN. 

Prepare  your  macaroni  as  before,  but  if  you  have  any  left  put  it  in 
your  dish  that  you  send  to  table,  put  grated  cheese  on  the  top  of  all 
of  it,  keeping  it  high,  clarify  some  butter  and  pour  it  over  it,  put  it 
in  the  oven  to  brown,  send  it  very  hot  to  table. 


1 187. MACARONI. 

Boil  your  macaroni  in  milk,  and  a  good  piece  of  butter,  until  quite 
tender,  strain  it  off,  have  ready  in  another  stewpan  some  white  sauce, 
add  to  it  a  little  made  mustard,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Parmesan 
cheese,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  common  pepper,  and  salt. 


1188. — FONDEAU. 

Boil  together  half  a  pint  of  milk  and  twQ  ounces  of  butter,  and  a 
little  salt,  mix  in  smooth  two  spoonfuls  of  fiour,  then  stir  it  over  the 
fire  for  about  five  minutes,  then  take  it  off  and  add  to  it  half  a  pound 
of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  the  whites  of 
two  well  beaten  before  you  add  it ;  then  add  a  gill  of  cream,  then 
beat  the  remaining  six  whites  of  eggs  to  a  very  high  froth,  then 
mix  them  lightly  to  the  rest,  then  ml  your  case,  either  a  silver  one 
well  buttered,  or  small  square  paper  cases,  bake  them  in  a  slow  fire, 
about  twenty  minutes  the  small  ones,  and  longer  the  large  ones. 


aOO  BUTTEBy  CHEESE,   ETC. 

1 189.— RAMBQUINS. 

Break  eight  eggs  into  a  basin,  add  two  ounces  of  darified  butter, 
two  tea-spoonfuls  of  made  mustard,  some  black  pepper,  and  ca^renne 
pepper,  and  salt,  a  gill  of  cream ;  beat  all  well  together,  add  half  a 
pound  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  a  little  common  cheese  grated, 
beat  well  together,  then  fill  your  mould  cr  papers. 

I  used  at  one  time  to  divide  the  eggs  and  whip  the  whites  the  last 
thing,  quite  stiff,  and  stir  in  gently,  but  I  now  make  them  as  above 
equally  as  good  and  light  as  with  the  former  time  and  trouble.  My 
souffles  I  now  make  the  same  way,  without  whipping  the  whites 
which  by  most  cooks  is  still  preserved ;  my  way  is  quite  as  light  and 
the  souffle  rises  equally  as  high. 


CUSTARD8.  301 


CHAPTER  XVIIL 

OUSTABDS,  CBEAMS,  ICES,  JELLIES,  MABMALADES,  ETC. 

1 1 90.  — CUSTARDS. 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk  with  lemon  peel  and  cinnamon,  mix  a  pint  of 
cream  and  the  yolks  of  eggs  beaten ;  when  the  milk  tastes  of  the 
seasoning  sweeten  it  enough  for  the  whole,  pour  it  into  the  cream  and 
stir  it  well,  then  gire  the  custard  a  simmer  till  of  a  proper  thickness, 
do  not  let  it  boil,  stir  it  one  way  the  whole  time ;  then  flavour  with  a 
large  spoonful  of  peach  water,  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  brandy,  or 
some  xatifia.  If  you  wish  your  custard  to  be  very  rich  put  a  quart  of 
cream  and  no  milk. 


1191.— CUSTARDS. 

Put  on  to  boil  half  a  pint  of  milk,  half  a  pint  of  cream,  with 
a  few  pieces  of  sugar,  a  bay -leaf,  two  dozen  coriander  seeds,  a 
piece  of  cinnamon,  three  clores,  a  few  grains  of  nutmeg ;  boil  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  take  it  off  to  cool,  have  beaten  up  four  yolks 
of  eggs,  and  two  whole  eggs,  beat  them  well  up,  then  add  your  warm 
milk  to  it,  stir  it  over  a  slow  fire  with  your  whisk  until  thick,  mind  it 
does  not  boil  and  curdle,  keep  stirring  it  off  the  fire  until  cold,  pass 
it  through  a  tammy,  it  will  then  be  fit  for  use ;  flavour  with  various 
things,  differing  according  to  what  it  may  be  required  for. 


1192. — ALMOND   CDSTABD 

Is  the  same  as  the  former  custard  preparation.  Blanch  and  pound 
fine  about  twelve  bitter  almonds,  and  two  dozen  Jordan,  and  mix  it 
into  the  custard  when  over  the  fire ;  a  few  drops  of  orange-flower 
water. 


1193.— ALMOND  CUSTARDS. 

Blanch  and  beat  three  oimces  of  sweet  almonds  and  one  ounce  of 
bitter  fine,  with  a  spoonful  of  water ;  beat  a  pint  of  cream  with  two 
spoonfuls  of  rose  water,  and  put  to  them  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and 
as  mach  su^r  as  will  make  it  sweet ;  then  add  the  almonds,  stir  it 
all  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  is  of  a  proper  thickness,  but  not  to  boil. 
Poor  it  into  cups. 


302  CUSTARDS. 


1194.— COSTARD,  BAKED. 

Boil  a  pint  of  cream  with  mace  and  cinnamon ;  when  cold,  take 
four  egrrs,  leaving  out  two  of  the  whites,  a  little  rose  and  orange- 
flower  water,  a  little  white  wine,  nutmeg,  and  sugar  to  jour  taste; 
mix  them  well  together,  and  hake  them  m  china  cups. 


1195. — CREAM   CUSTARD. 

Take  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf  and  grate  it  veiy  fine,  and  add  to 
it  a  quart  of  cream  with  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  and  the  jolks 
of  a  dozen  eggs,  put  to  them  as  much  sugar  as  will  sweeten  them, 
then  let  it  thicken  oyer  the  fire,  make  the  custards  shallow,  and  when 
they  have  stood  half  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven,  grate  some  loaf'  logar 
oyer  them  and  serve. 


1196. — CUSTARD   A   LA   PARISIENNE. 

Take  fi%  sound  apples  and  cut  them  into  quarters,  pare  and  oove 
them,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  half  a  pound  of  butter,  a  qouter 
of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar,  and  a  pot  of  apricot  marmalade ; 
put  them  over  a  moderate  fire,  but  of  a  good  even  heat,  let  them 
remain  to  soften  but  not  to  break,  a  few  minutes  will  sulBce.  Have 
ready  a  preparation  of  rice  boiled,  with  half  a  pound  of  hatter,  the 
same  of  sugar  on  which  has  been  grated  the  peel  of  four  lemons,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  eight  glasses  of  milk  thickened  with  the  yolk  of 
ten  eggs ;  make  a  raised  crust  about  nine  inches  in  diameter,  and 
Hyb  or  six  in  height,  in  which  put  a  fourth  part  of  the  rice  cold,  on 
that  lay  forty*eight  quarters  of  apples,  over  them  poiur  the  same 
quantity  of  rice,  &c.,  reserving  the  finest  quarters  for  the  top.  Bake 
it  in  a  brisk  oven  for  two  hours  and  a  half,  or  until  done,  when  it  is 
done  mark  the  top  with  apple  jelly,  apricot  or  currant  marmalade, 
and  the  crust  with  the  same,  bitter  almonds  also. 


1197. — CUSTARD   (plain). 

Boil  together  a  quart  of  cream  or  new  milk,  a  stick  of  cinnamon, 
four  bay  leaves,  and  some  mace ;  then  take  twelve  eggs,  beat  them 
up  well,  sweeten  them,  put  them  into  a  pan,  and  bake  or  boil  them, 
stirring  them  all  one  way  till  they  are  of  a  proper  thickness ;  boil 
the  spice  and  leaves  first,  and  when  the  milk  is  cold  mix  the  ^;gs 
and  boil  it.  The  spice  may  be  left  out,  and  only  the  bay  leaves  used, 
or,  in  lieu  of  that,  four  or  five  bitter  almonds,  to  the  taste. 


1 198.^-CHERRY  CUSTARD. 

Take  two  pounds  of  ripe  cherries,  stoned  and  tailed,  and  put  them 
into  a  preserving  pan  with  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar ;  when 
nearly  done  drain  the  cherries  well,  strain  the  syrup,  and  boil  it  until 
it  begins  to  adhere  to  the  fingers,  then  pour  it  to  a  fourth  part  of  the 
cherries  with  the  juice  which  drained  from  them,  and  put  them  on 
the  fire  till  the  nap  foams ;  prepare  the  custard  ixr  fiie  usual  way 


CKBA1I&  303 

in  the  dnincd  chenries,  l>ake  it  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour  in 

ik  OTen,  then  dorez  and  glaze  it.     Previous  to  senring  at  tahle 

it  with  the  remaining  cherries,  and  pour  the  sjnip  over  the 


1199. — LEMON   CUSTARD. 

ke  the  jolks  of  ten  eggs  heaten,  strain  them,  and  whip  them 
a  pint  of  cream ;  hoil  the  juice  of  two  lemons  sweetened  with 
na  of  one,  when  cold  strain  it  to  the  cream  and  eggs ;  when  it 
t  boils,  put  it  into  a  dish,  grate  over  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  and 
1  it  with  a  salamander. 


1200. — ORANGE  CUSTABD," 

it  the  rind  of  a  Seville  orange  (previously  boiled  very  tender), 
(lortar,  to  a  very  fine  paste,  add  the  juice  of  a  Seville  orange,  a 
fbl  of  the  best  brandy,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  four  ounces 
up  gngar ;  beat  them  well  together  for  ten  minutes,  then  pour  in 
all  J  a  pint  of  boiling  cream,  beating  it  till  it  is  cold,  and  put  it 
niztard  glasses.  Place  the  glasses  in  an  earthen  dish  of  hot 
,  let  tiiem  remain  till  they  are  set,  then  stick  preserved  orange 
nge  chips  on  the  top.     Serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

1201. — BICE  CUSTARDS  WTIHOUT  CREAM. 

Z9  one  tea-spoonful  of  rice  flour,  a  pint  of  new  milk,  the  yolks 
ee  eggs,  a  table-spoonful  of  ratafia-sugar  to  your  liking ;  mix 
oe  very  smooth,  and  stir  it,  with  the  eggs,  into  the  boiling 


URKAMp. 

1202. ^APRIOOT  CRBAM. 

same  as  raspberry  and  currant  cream,  mb  your  apricots  through 
iy  if  jam,  the  same ;  use  a  little  lemon  juice  and  less  sugar  than 
other  creams. 


120.3. — CABBAGE  CREAM. 

a  gallon  of  milk  over  the  fire  and  skim  it  as  long  as  any  froth 
hen  empty  it  into  eight  or  ten  bowls  as  fast  as  you  can  without 
g  it  frotn,  then  set  them  in  a  place  where  the  wind  may  blow 
them ;  when  the  milk  is  rather  cooled  gather  off  the  cream  with 
ands,  crumple  it  together  and  lay  it  on  a  plate ;  when  you  have 
ur  or  five  layings  one  upon  another,  then  dip  a  feather  in  rose 
and  musk  and  stroke  it  over  it,  then  sift  some  fine  sugar  and 
nutmeg  over  it  and  lay  on  three  or  four  layers  more,  then  set 
milk  on  the  fire  to  boil  again,  and  when  it  rises  up  distribute 
I  did  before  in  your  bowk,  and  use  it  in  the  like  manner;  do 
re  times,  laying  on  your  cream  as  before  one  upon  another,  till 
I  nnmd  and  as  high  as  a  cabbage.    Let  one  of  the  bowls  stand. 


304  CBSAMS. 


because  it  will  be  tbickest  and  most  orumpled,  laj  on  that  hrt  tbe 
top  of  all;  strew  pounded  loaf  sagar  over  the  whole* 


1201.— -CHOCOLATE    CBEAM. 

Put  two  squares  of  chocolate  scraped  into  a  stewpan  with  two 
ounces  of  sugar,  a  pint  of  milk  and  half  a  pint  of  cream,  let  it  boil 
till  a  third  is  consumed,  and  when  half  cold  beat  up  the  yolks  xil 
six  eggs  with  it,  and  strain  the  whole  through  a  sieve,  and  then  put 
the  small  dish  or  cups  in  which  the  cream  is  to  be  served  into  a  pan 
containing  enough  boiling  water  to  reach  above  half-way  up  ths 
cream,  cover  this  pan  and  put  a  little  fire  on  the  pan,  when  done 
and  the  cream  cool,  serve. 


1205. — CLOTTED  CREAM. 

String  four  blades  of  mace  on  a  string,  put  them  to  a  gill  of  new 
milk,  and  six  spoonfuls  of  rose  water,  simmer  a  few  minutes,  ^bea 
by  degrees  stir  this  liquor,  strained  into  the  yolks  of  two  new  eggs 
well  beaten,  stir  the  whole  into  a  quart  of  good  cream,  set  it  one 
the  fire  and  stir  till  hot,  but  not  boiling,  pour  it  into  a  deep  dish  and 
let  it  stand  four  and  twenty  hours,  serve  it  in  a  cream  dish ;  to  eaft 
with  firuit  some  persons  prefer  it  without  any  taste  but  cream,  ui 
which  case  use  a  quart  of  new  milk,  or  do  it  like  the  Devonshire 
cream  scalded ;  when  done  enough  a  round  mark  will  appear  on  Ifit 
surface  of  the  cream,  the  size  of  the  bottom  of  the  pan  it  is  done  iQ, 
which  in  the  country  they  call  the  ring,  and  when  that  iS 
remove  the  pan  irom  the  fire. 


1206. — EXCELLENT   CBEAM. 

Take  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  cream,  whip  it  up  to  a  strong  froth 
with  some  finely  scraped  lemon  peel,  a  squeeze  of  lemon  juice,  half  a 
glass  of  sweet  wine^  and  sugar,  lay  it  on  a  sieve  in  a  form,  aad 
the  next  day  lay  it  on  a  dish  and  ornament  it  with  very  light  puff 
paste  biscuits  made  in  tin  shapes  the  length  of  a  finger,  and  about 
two  thick,  over  which  should  be  strewed  sugar,  or  a  little  glaze  with 
isinglass;  the  edges  of  the  dishes  may  be  lined  with  macaroons. 


1207. — CHOCOLATE. — WHIPPED   CBSAH. 

Dissolve  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  best  chocolate  in  a  glass 
of  boiling  water  over  a  moderate  fire,  then  let  it  cool,  add  to  it  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  mix  it  with  whipped 
cream. 


1208.— <;hsrby  ice  cream. 

Pound  half  a  pound  of  preserved  cherries  unstoned,  pat  them  into 
a  basin  with  a  pint  of  cream,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  gill  of 
syrup ;  pass  it  tlm>ugh  a  sieve,  and  freeze  it  in  Ao  nsoal  way. 


CBEAU.  305 

^  r— 

1209.— CURRAKT  ICE  CREAM. 

Pat  into  a  basin  a  large  spooninl  and  a  half  of  currant  jelly,  with 
half  a  gill  ofsjrup ;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  a  half,  add 
a  pint  of  cream  and  a  little  cochineal,  pass  it  through  a  sieve,  and 
freeze  it  in  the  usual  way. 

1210. — CURRANT  CREAM. 

Take  some  currants  thoroughly  ripe,  bruise  them  in  boiled  cream, 
add  beaten  cinnamon,  and  sweeten  to  your  taste;  then  strain  it 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  serve. 

Strawberries  and  raspberries  may  be  done  in  the  same  way.  The 
fruit  ought  to  be  sweetened  previous  to  putting  in  the  cream,  which 
should  be  used  almost  cold,  else  it  is  liable  to  curdle. 


1211  .—GOOSEBERRY  CREAM. 

Take  a  quart  of  gooseberries,  boil  them  very  quick  in  enough 
water  to  cover  them;  stir  in  half  an  ounce  of  good  butter,  when 
thej  become  soft  pulp  them  through  a  sieve,  sweeten  the  pulp  while 
it  is  hot,  and  then  beat  it  up  with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Serve  in 
a  dish,  cups,  or  glasses. 

*""    1212. — LEMON  ICE  CREAM. 

Take  the  juice  of  four  lemons  and  the  peel  of  one  grated,  add  two 
giUs  of  syrup  and  one  pint  of  cream,  niuc  it  all  together,  pass  it 
through  a  sieve,  and  freeze  it. 

1213. — STRAWBERRY  CREAM. 

Pulp  six  ounces  of  strawberry  jam  with  a  pint  of  eream  through  a 
aere,  add  to  it  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  whisk  it  fast  at  the  edge  of  a 
dish,  lay  the  froth  on  a  sieve,  add  a  little  more  juice  of  lemon,  and 
when  no  more  froth  will  rise  put  the  cream  into  a  dish,  or  into 
glanefly  and  place  the  froth  upon  it,  well  drained. 

1214. — STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 

Pass  a  pint  of  picked  strawberries  through  a  sieve  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  add  four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  cream,  and 
freeze. 


1215. — CTIEAM    HASTY. 

Take  a  gallon  of  milk  from  the  cow,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  when  it 
b^ns  to  nse  take  it  off  the  fire,  skim  off  all  the  cream  and  put  it  on 
a  plate,  then  set  the  skillet  on  the  fire  again  and  repeat  the  skimming 
till  your  plate  is  full  of  cream,  put  to  it  some  orange  flower  and 
sagar^  ana  serve  it. 

1216. — ITALIAN  CREAM. 

>  Boil  two  ounces  of  isinglass  as  usual  for  creams,  whip  up  a  pint 
of  cream  until  it  thickens,  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  some  sifted 

X 


306  CBfiLAJf. 


sugar,  a  little  brandy,  and  a  little  white  wine,  whip  all  in  by  degrees, 
when  a  good  thickness  add  in  your  cold  isinglass,  whip  it  until  it 
begins  to  set,  then  fill  your  mould ;  if  you  like  colour  ona  half  of  it« 


1217. — CREAM,   TO  KEEP.' 

Cream  already  skimmed  may  be  kept  twenty-four  hours  if  scalded 
without  sugar,  and  by  adding  to  it  as  much  powdered  lump  sugar  ai 
will  make  it  sweet,  it  will  keep  good  two  days  in  a  cool  place. 


1218. — CREAM   ATI  ITATUREL. 

Take  some  thin  cream,  mind  and  let  it  be  fresh,  and  put  it  in  a 
bowl  on  ice  to  cool,  add  to  it  powdered  sugar,  and  serre  it 

1219. — PINE  APPLE  CREAM. 

Hare  some  pine  apple  prepared  in  syrup,  and  cut  into  small  dice, 
patting  it  in  your  cream  with  a  little  of  the  syrup,  tiie  other  proce« 
as  before. 


1220. — RASPBERRY  AND  CURRANT  CREAM. 

Use  a  pottle  of  raspberries,  and  the  juice  of  a  handful  of  currants, 
passed  through  the  sieye  with  the  raspberries,  then  proceed  the  same 
as  before,  precisely. 

1221. — ^RBBNISH  CREAM. 

This  can  be  made  best  from  some  stale  clear  jelly ;  boil  your  jelly 
and  let  it  cool  a  little,  have  ready  eight  yolks  of  eges,  a  little  sugar, 
and  a  little  brandy,  mix  this  all  to  the  jelly,  pass  it  through  a  tammr 
sieye,  or  a  lawn  sieve,  into  a  basin,  keeping  it  well  mixed  until  it 
begins  to  jelly,  then  put  it  into  your  mould. 


1222. CREAM   STRAWBERRIES.    ^ 

Rub  through  a  fine  sieve  about  four  ounces  of  strawberries,  hare 
ready  boiled  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  or  milk  two  ounces  of 
isinglass,  strain  it,  and  put  it  to  get  cold,  but  not  to  set ;  put  in  a 
large  basin  one  pint  of  cream,  whip  it  with  your  whisk  until  it  b^in* 
to  thicken,  then  whip  in  a  piece  of  a  lemon  free  from  pips,  a  handful 
of  sifted  sugar,  now  the  strawberries,  more  sugar  if  not  sweet  enough, 
now  whip  in  gently  your  isinglass,  not  more  than  a  tea-cupfiA,  whip 
it  well,  and  if  nearly  set  put  it  into  your  mould ;  if  not  a  good  colour, 
as  that  of  a  strawberry,  use  cochineal  colouring  to  it. 


1223. VANILLA  CREAM. 

Boil  a  stick  of  vanilla  in  a  cupful  of  milk,  with  a  few  pieces  of 
lump  sugar,  for  one  hour,  take  out  the  vanilla,  and  let  the  milk  get 
cold,  prepare  your  isinglass  and  cream  as  in  other  creams,  whip 
the  essence  of  yaoillci  into  it,  make  it  rather  sweet  with  sifted  sugar. 


IC£8.  307 

fill  jour  mould  as  before.  Turn  out  all  jellies  and  creams  with  luke- 
inrarm  water,  damping  the  tops  with  a  clean  cloth  before  you  turn 
them  over  upon  your  dish. 

1224. GOOSEBEBttY   FOOL. 

Put  gooseberries  into  a  stone  jar  with  some  fine  Lisbon  sugar,  put 
the  jar  either  in  a  stove  or  in  a  saucepan  of  water  over  the  fire,  if  in 
a  stove  a  large  spoonful  of  water  should  be  added  to  the  fruit;  >vhen  it 
is  done  to  a  pulp  press  it  through  a  cullender.  Have  ready  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  new  milk,  and  a  tea-cupful  of  raw  cream  boiled  together, 
or  you  may  use  an  egg  instead  of  the  cream,  leave  it  to  get  cold,  then 
sweeten  well  with  sugar  and  mix  the  pulp  by  degrees  with  it. 


1225. — APPLE    POOL 

May  be  made  as  gooseberry  fool,  except  that  when  stewed  they  should 
be  peeled  and  piuped. 

122G. — ^TRIFLE. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  Naples  biscuits,  and  macaroons 
broke  in  halves,  wet  with  brandy  and  white  wine  poured  over  them, 
cover  them  with  patches  of  raspberry  jam,  fill  the  dish  with  a  good 
custard,  then  whip  up  a  syllabub,  drain  the  froth  on  a  sieve,  put  it 
on  the  custard  and  strew  comfits  over  all. 


1227. — ^ATPLE   TRIFLE. 

Take  a  quantity  of  apples,  and  pulp  them  through  a  sieve  until  you 
liave  sufficient  to  make  a  thick  layer  at  the  bottom  of  your  dish, 
grate  the  rind  of  half  a'  lemon  fine  and  mix  with  it,  sweeten  to 
palate  vuth  sugar.  Mix  together  half  a  pint  of  milk,  the  same  quantity 
of  cream,  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  scald  it  over  a  quick  fire  keeping 
it  well  stirred  all  the  time,  it  must  not  boil,  add  a  little  more  sugar 
and  then  stand  it  to  cool ;  when  cold  lay  it  over  the  apples  with 
a  spoon,  cover  it  with  a  whip  which  should  be  made  about  twenty- 
four  hours  previously,  and  whichjshould  be  thus  made  ; — to  a  gill  of 
rich  cream  put  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  four  tea-spoon- 
fuls of  pounded  sugar,  some  lemon  peel,  and  a  wine  glass  of  raisin 
wine,  beat  it  well  with  a  whisk  which  is  kept  only  for  such  pui-poscs. 
A  €X>osBBERRY  TRIFLE  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 


ICES. 

Sorbctiercs,  or  moulds  for  cream  or  fruit  ices,  are  made  of  two 
sorts  of  materials,  block-tin  and  pew|er,  of  these  the  latter  is  the 
best,  the  substance  to  be  iced  congealing  more  gradually  in  it  than 
the  former,  an  object  much  to  be  desired,  for  when  the  ice  is  formed 
too  quickly  it  is  apt  to  be  rough  and  full  of  lumps  like  hail,  espe- 
cially if  it  is  not  well  worked  with  the  spatula;  the  other  utensils 

X  2 


308  ICES. 

fit  for  this  operation  are  a  deep  pail  with  a  cork  at  the  bottom,  and 
a  wooden  spatola,  about  nine  inches  long ;  fill  the  pail  with  pounded 
ice  over  which  spread  four  handfuls  of  salt,  then  having  filled  a 
sorbetiere  or  mould  with  cream,  &c.,  put  on  the  cover  and  immerse  it 
in  the  centre  of  the  pail,  taking  care  the  ice  touches  the  mould  in 
all  parts,  throw  in  two  more  handfuls  of  salt  and  leave  it  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  then  take  the  cover  from  the  mould,  and  with  the  spatula 
stir  the  contents  up  together,  so  that  those  parts  that  touch  the  sides 
of  the  mould,  and  consequently  congeal  first,  may  be  mixed  with  the 
liquor  in  the  middle,  work  this  about  for  seven  or  eight  minutes, 
cover  the  mould,  take  the  pail  by  the  ears  and  shake  it  roimd  and 
round  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  open  the  mould  a  second  time  and 
stir  as  before,  continue  these  operations  alternately  until  it  is  endrely 
congealed  and  smooth,  and  free  from  lumps,  take  care  to  let  out  the 
water  that  will  collect  at  the  bottom  of  the  pail,  by  means  of  the 
cock,  and  press  the  ice  close  to  the  sorbetiere  with  the  spatula;  when 
the  cream  is  iced  take  it  from  the  pail,  dip  the  mould  in  warm  water 
and  do  not  let  it  remain  an  instant,  dry  it  quickly,  turn  it  out  and 
serve  as  quickly  as  possible.  All  sorts  of  ices  are  finished  in  this 
manner,  the  preparation  of  the  articles  of  which  they  are  composed 
constitutes  the  only  difierence  between  them. 


1228. — ICE    FOR    ICING now    TO    FREPAKE. 

Break  almost  to  powder  a  few  pounds  of  ice,  and  throw  in  axamtgh 
a  large  liandful  and  a  half  of  salt,  you  must  prepare  in  the  cool  part  of 
house  that  as  little  of  the  warm  air  may  come  as  possible;  the  ice  and 
salt  being  in  a  bucket,  put  your  cream  into  an  ice-pot  and  cover  it, 
immerse  it  in  the  ice,  and  draw  that  round  the  pot  so  that  it  may 
cover  every  part,  in  a  few  minutes  put  a  spatula  or  spoon  in  and  star 
it  well,  remove  the  parts  that  ice  round  the  edges  to  the  centre,  if 
the  ice  cream  or  water  be  in  a  form  shut  the  bottom  close,  and  move 
the  whole  in  the  ice,  as  you  cannot  use  a  spoon  to  that  without 
danger  of  waste ;  there  should  be  holes  in  the  bucket  to  let  the  ice  off 
as  it  thaws. 


1229. — ICING    FOR   CAKES. 

For  a  large  cake  beat  eight  ounces  of  fine  sugar,  put  it  into  B 
mortar  with  four  spoonfuls  of  rose  water  and  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  beaten  and  strained,  whisk  it  well,  and  when  the  cake  is  almost 
cold  dip  a  feather  in  the  icing  and  cover  the  cake  well,  set  it  in  an 
oven  to  harden,  but  do  not  let  it  remain  long  enough  to  discolour, 
keep  the  cake  in  a  dry  place. 


1230.— j^ClNf;  FOR  CAKES. 

Put  a  pound  of  prepared  icing  sugar  into  a  basin  with  the  whites 
of  two  eggs,  beat  it  up  well  for  half  an  hour  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
if  too  thin  add  more  sugar,  and  a  drop  more  white  of  egg^  and  the 
juice  ot  half  a  lemon  ;  beat  it  well.     It  must  not  run. 


ICES.  309 


1231.— -ALMOND  ICING   FOR  BRIDE  CAKBS. 

The  wliites  of  six  eggs,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  double  refined  8i:^ar, 
and  a  pound  of  Jordan  almonds  blanched  and  pounded  with  a  Utile 
rose  water,  mix  altogether,  and  whisk  it  well  for  an  hour  or  two,  lay 
it  orer  the  cake  and  put  it  in  the  oven. 


1232. ICING   FOR   TAUTS. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  some  melted  butter  well  together, 
wash  the  tarts  with  a  feather,  and  sift  sugar  over  as  you  put  them 
kkto  the  oven,  or  beat  white  of  egg,  wash  the  paste,  and  sift  some 
white  sugar. 


1233. — BUOWN  BREAD  ICE. 

One  pint  of  cream,  sweeten  with  thick  syrup,  a  little  grating  of 
nutmeg,  a  glass  of  jelly,  have  ready  some  very  fine  bread  crumbs 
made  nom  brown  bread  four  days  old,  to  be  sprinkled  by  degrees 
into  the  cream  when  about  half  frozen,  add  jelly  if  you  have  it. 


1234. — GINGER  CREAM  ICE. 

Make  half  a  pint  of  good  custard,  boiling  an  ounce  of  the  best 
ground  ginger,  sweeten  it,  add  half  a  pint  of  cream,  u  little  lemon 
juice,  put  into  it  when  half  frozen  two  ounces  of  preserved  ginger 
cut  in  small  dice ;  go  on  as  for  former  ices. 


1235. — CURRANT,    BLACK,    "WATER   ICE. 

Put  one  large  spoonful  of  black  currant  jelly  into  a  basin,  add  the 
jmce  of  two  lemons,  a  gill  of  syrup,  and  half  a  pint  of  water,  strain  it 
and  freeze  it  rich. 


1230.— CURRANT   ICES. 

Squeeze  some  picked  currants  through  a  sieve,  add  to  the  juice 
some  clarified  sugar,  boiled  to  a  very  high  degree,  and,  if  you  like, 
squeeze  in  the  juice  of  four  lemons — ^it  will  make  it  more  mellow ; 
Btzain  them  again  through  the  sieve,  put  them  in  the  icing  pot,  and 
finish  the  same  as  all  other  ices. 


1237. — PINE  APPLE  CREAM  ICE. 

Use  the  syrup,  and  when  getting  thick  add  some  small  pieces  of 
pine,  cut  in  dice,  all  the  other  process  as  for  former  creams. 

J  238. — FRESH  STRAWBERRY  ICE  OP  CREAM. 

If  for  a  quart  mould  rub  through  four  or  five  ounces  of  the  scarlet 
itiBwberries  into  a  clean  basin,  sweeten  it  with  some  good  thick 
•yrop,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  half  a  pint  of  cream,  a  glass  of  clear 
jelly  if  you  have  it,  in  dissolved  isinglass ;  in  freezing  work  it  well 
and  repeatedly  with  jour  spoon,  when  it  begins  to  thicken  and  stick 


310  ICES. 

to  the  sides  of  the  freezer,  do  not  let  it  be  too  hard  before  you  put 
it  into  your  mould,  and  colour  it,  if  not  a  good  colour,  with  prepared 
colouring;  paper  the  top  aud  bottom  of  your  moulds,  bring  them  in 
small  ice  and  plenty  of  salt,  and  let  them  remain  until  dessert  is 
called ;  wash  well  the  moulds  from  the  salt  and  water  as  the  least 
drop  will  spoil  your  ices;  cut  off  the  projecting  top  and  bottom 
before  you  dish  them. 

1239. — ^VAIOLLA  CREAM  ICE. 

Boil  a  stick  of  vanilla  in  milk  and  sugar,  break  eight  yolks  of  egg^ 
and  make  a  good  thick  custard  of  the  boiled  milk  and  Yanilla,  strain 
it  through  a  fine  sieve,  when  cold  add  a  gill  of  cream  and  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  a  glass  of  jelly  if  you  have  it ;  the  last  as  the  former  ices. 


1240.— -CEDRAT  ICES. 

Take  a  piece  of  lump  sugar,  and  have  a  fresh  and  sound  cednt 
which  you  must  grate  over  a  piece  of  paper  on  a  lump  of  sugar, 
scraping  with  a  knife  what  sticks  upon  the  sugar  of  the  skin 
of  the  cedrat,  when  you  have  thus  taken  off  the  outer  rind  of  the 
cedrat  by  grating  it  on  the  sugar,  take  a  little  clarified  sugar  boiled 
very  fine,  which  add  to  the  grating  of  the  cedrat  with  what  quantity 
of  lemon  juice  you  think  requisite  for  the  quantity  of  ices  you  intend 
making  and  a  little  water,  pour  the  whole  through  a  sieve,  then  ice 
it,  and  finish  the  same  as  all  other  ices. 


1241. — CEDRAT    ICE   WATER. 

Take  four  ounces  of  essence  of  cedrat,  put  it  into  a  basin  and  add 
to  it  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  two  gills  of  syrup,  and  half  a  pint  of 
water,  then  pass  it  through  a  sieve  and  freeze  rich ;  and  if  you  would 
have  it  in  the  shape  of  a  cedrat,  after  you  have  filled  your  mould 
close  it  well,  and  cover  it  with  half  a  sheet  of  brown  paper  before 
you  put  it  into  the  ice. 

1242. CHERRY    ICE. 

Stone  two  pounds  of  ripe  cherries,  bruise  and  set  them  on  the  fire 
with  a  little  water  and  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  when  they  have 
boiled  pass  them  through  a  hair  sieve  into  an  earthen  pan,  pound  a 
handful  of  the  kernels,  put  them  in  a  basin  with  the  juice  of  two 
lemons,  add  to  the  cherries  a  pound  of  sugar  au  petit  lisse,  and 
strain  on  them  the  lemon  juice  and  kernels,  mix  the  whole  together 
and  put  it  into  a  sorbetiere  with  pounded  ice,  work  the  cherries  up 
with  it  well  until  it  has  set,  then  place  it  in  glasses. 


1243. CURRANTS  TO   ICE. 

Take  fresh  currants  in  bunches,  and  have  readr  some  nrhite  of 
egg  well  beaten,  dip  them  in,  lay  them  abroad,  sin  double  refined 
sugar  over  them  thick,  and  dry  them  in  a  stove  or  owea. 


ICES.  311 

1244.— CURRANT  ICB   CRBAM. 

Put  one  laige  ipoonful  and  a  half  of  currant  jellj  into  a  basin  with 
btif  a  gill  of  sjrup,  squeeze  in  one  lemon  and  a  half,  add  a  pint  of 
CRam  and  a  little  cochineal,  then  pass  it  through  a  siere  and  finish  in 
the  general  way. 

1245.— CURRANT  ICES. 

Take  some  picked  currants  and  squeeze  them  through  a  siere, 
then  take  some  clarified  sugar  boiled  to  a  high  degree,  add  it  to  jour 
cnrrant  juice,  and  if  you  like  squeeze  the  juice  of  four  lemons  in  it, 
which  will  make  it  more  mellow,  strain  it  through  a  sieye  again,  put 
then  in  an  icing  pot ;  finish  the  same  as  all  other  ices. 


1246. ^WATEB  ICES  GENERALLY. 

If  made  from  jams  you  must  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  adding 
Aick  boiled  syrup,  and  lemon  juice,  and  some  jelly,  and  colouring  'S 
fi>r  pink,  and  the  white  of  an  egg  whipt  up  betbre  you  add  it  to  the 
best  half  of  a  pint  of  spring  water ;  if  of  jam,  you  must  have  a  good 
pint  of  mixture  in  all  to  make  a  quart  mould ;  if  from  fruits  with 
ityrap  jou  will  not  require  water. 

1247.— CURRANT  FRESH  WATER  ICE. 

Pbss  through  a  sieve  a  pint  of  currants,  then  add  to  them  four 
Ounces  of  powdered  sugar  and  one  pint  of  water,  strain  it  and  fireeze 
it  rich. 


1248. ^RED  CURRANT  WATER  ICE. 

'  Use  either  the  syrup  from  currants,  or  currant  jelly  dissolved,  and 
half  a  pint  of  barley  water,  always  cold,  use  a  little  lemon  juice,  the 
test  as  for  former  ices. 


1249. WHITE  CURRANT  WATER  ICE. 

Press  half  a  pint  of  juice  from  the  white  currants,  strain  them,  add 
raffident  thick  syrup  to  sweeten  it,  and  a  cup  of  barley  water,  or 
spring  water,  beat  up  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  put  into  it  a  glass 
of  jelly  if  you  have  it,  a  little  boiled  isinglass,  and  freeze  as  before; 
these  ices  will,  both  pink  and  white,  look  well  together. 


1250. LEMON  WATER  ICE. 

Rub  on  sugar  the  clear  rinds  of  lemons,  squeeze  the  juice  of 
twelve  lemons,  strain  them,  boil  the  sugar  into  a  strong  thick  sjrrup, 
add  to  the  juice  half  a  pint  of  water,  or  good  barley  water,  sweeten  it 
with  your  syrup,  add  the  white  of  an  egg  and  jelly. 


1251. — ORANGE  WATER  ICE. 

Proceed  exactly  as  before,  only  add  a  glass  of  brandy  or  Madeira ; 
or  without. 


312  JELLIES. 


1252. — FIKB  COCHINEAL  COLOURING. 

Pound  one  ounce  of  cochineal  in  one  pint  of  water,  one  ounce  of 
roach  alum,  one  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  when  all  are  boiled  add 
one  ounce  of  salts  of  wormwood,  and  the  juice  of  three  lemonflt  and 
two  gills  of  spirits  of  wine. 


JELLIES. 

1253. — ASPIC. 

Take  a  knuckle  of  veal,  a  knuckle  of  ham,  a  thick  slic^  of  beef, 
and  if  thej  will  not  make  your  jelly  stiff  enough  add  two  calves'  feet 
or  some  swards  of  bacon  rasped;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
pint  of  rich  stock,  and  sweat  it  over  a  stove  imtil  reduced  to  glaze, 
then  moisten  it  with  stock,  boil  and  skim  it  well.     Put  to  it  two 
onions,  two  carrots,  salt,  parsley,  scallions,  four  cloves,  two  bay 
leaves,  and  a  clove  of  garlick ;  let  the  whole  stew  for  seven  hours, 
then ,  strain  off  the  liquor  or  consomme,  break  four  eggs  into  a 
stewpan,  and  put  to  them  the  consomme  when  cold,  the  juice  of  two 
lemons,  and  a  little  tarragon,  and  beat  it  with  a  whisk  over  the  five 
till  nearly  boiling ;  and  when  it  does  so  remove  your  stewpan  to  « 
smaller  fire,  and  place  fire  on  the  lid  for  half  an  hour,  then  pass  it 
through  a  wet  napkin  doubled ;  if  the  jelly  is  not  sufficiently  clear, 
cjarify  it  a  second  time.     Put  a  layer  of  this  jelly  an  inch  thick  at 
the  bottom  of  an  aspic  mould,  garnish  it  with  trufEes,  white  of  eggs, 
sprigs  of  parsley,  according  to  your  taste,  pour  in  another  half  inch 
of  the  jelly  while  hquid  with  great  care  so  as  not  to  discompose  your 
garnish,  then  put  either  calfs  brains,  breast  of  fowls,  veal,  sweetbreads, 
or  game ;  be  sure  to  lay  whatever  you  use  as  smootli  as  possible,  then 
till  up  your  mould  with  jelly  and  let  it  lie  till  set ;  when  wanted, 
dip  your  mould  in  hot  water  an  instant,  place  your  dish  on  the  top, 
and  turn  it  over. 


1254. ASPIC   JKLLY. 

Boil  a  neat's  foot  the  same  as  calves*  feet ;  when  boiled  and 
cleaned  as  in  No.  1264,  instead  of  spices  use  beet-roots,  sweet  herbs, 
parsley,  and  onions,  and  some  good  second  stock,  use  eggs  likewise, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  dust  of  sugar,  tarragon  vinegar,  and 
common  vinegar,  boil  and  run  it  through  a  jelly  bag  as  before. 


1255. — CLEAB  APPLE  JKLLY. 

Pare  and  core  five  dozen  of  lemon  pippins,  put  them  in  a  pan 
with  as  much  water  as  will  cover  them,  let  them  boil  gently  until 
soft,  let  them  get  cold,  then  strain  them  through  a  jelly  bag,  put  the 
juice  in  your  preserving-pan,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  put  one  pound 
of  fine  sugar  and  the  peel  of  two  lemons,  then  boil  it  until  it  is  reduced 
to  the  stiffness  of  calves*  foot  jelly,  skim  it  well,  add  the  juice  of  a 
lemon ;  it  should  be  made  in  September,  the  flavour  of  the  apple  is 
better,  if  you  cannot  get  the  pippin  any  acid  apple  will  do 


JELLIES.  313 


1256. — APPLE  JELLY — ANOTHEB   WAY. 

Peel  auj  kind  of  sharp  apples,  cut  them  in  slices  and  wash  thera 
in  several  waters,  then  hoil  them  in  a  covered  pot  >vith  a  good  deal  of 
water  until  it  is  much  reduced,  and  becomes  glutinous,  strain  it 
through  a  thin  cloth,  measure  it,  and  refine  an  equal  quantity  of 
clarified  sugar  to  the  twelfth  degree,  and  pour  the  apples  into  it, 
boil  it  up  and  skim  it,  boil  again  until  it  quits  the  spoon  clear  by 
dropping  out  of  it. 

1257. — APPLE  JELLY. 

Pick  and  wipe  twenty  golden  pippins,  boil  them  until  tender  in  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  spring  water,  strain  off  the  liquor,  put  a  pound  of 
white  sugar  to  every  pint,  add  a  little  grated  orange  or  lemon  peel  to 
flavour  it,  and  boil  to  a  jelly. 

1258. ^TO  MAKE  BED  APPLES  IN  JELLY. 

Take  a  quantity  of  fine  apples,  pare  and  core  them,  thromng  them 
into  water  as  you  do  them,  put  them  into  a  preserving  pan,  they 
must  not  be  close  enough  to  touch,  half  cover  them  with  water,  let 
them  coddle,  turning  them  when  the  lower  side  is  done,  add  to  the 
water  a  little  pounded  cochineal,  and  boil  it  with  the  fruit ;  when 
they  are  done  tender  lay  them  upon  the  dish  upon  which  you  are 
going  to  serve  them,  with  the  stalks  downwards;  make  a  rich  jelly 
with  the  loaf  sugar,  boil  in  it  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  and  the  thin  rind. 
When  it  comes  to  a  jelly  let  it  get  cold,  then  lay  it  among  and  over 
the  apples,  the  lemon  peel  may  be  cut  in  strips  and  laid  across  the 
apples.  It  is  necessary  to  observe  that  the  colour  of  the  apples  should 
be  a  bright  red  from  the  first,  and  kept  so,  but  great  care  must  be 
taken  not  to  use  too  much  cochineal,  or  it  will  impart  to  the  syrup  a 
bitter  flavour. 


1259. AN   APPLE  JLELY    FOR    PRKSERVINO   APEICOTS. 

If  in  summer  take  any  quantity  of  codlins,  pare,  quarter,  and  core 
them,  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  barely  cover  them  with  water  and 
boil  very  rapidly ;  as  soon  as  the  fruit  is  in  a  mash  add  a  quart  of 
water,  boil  for  thirty  minutes,  and  then  run  it  throu2:h  a  jelly-bag. 

Oolden  rennets  or  winter  pippins  should  be  used  if  this  jelly  is 
made  in  the  autumn ;  it  will  do  for  any  sort  of  sweet  meat. 

1260. — APBICOTS  IN  JELLY. 

The  fruit  must  be  pared  very  thin  and  stoned,  take  the  weight  as 
before,  and  then  sift  over  an  equal  quantity  of  finely  powdered  white 
sngar ;  let  it  remain  in  the  sugar  until  the  following  day,  then  boil 
very  gently  until  clear,  put  them  into  a  bowl  and  pour  the  syrup  over 
them ;  let  them  remain  twenty-four  hours,  make  a  quart  of  codlin- 
liquor  by  boiling,  straining,  and  the  addition  of  a  pound  of  white 
•ugar,  to  this  pour  the  syrup  from  the  apricots,  boil  it  quickly  until 
it  jellies,  then  put  the  firuit  into  it,  boil  it  once  only,  skim  it 
thoroughly,  and  put  it  into  smali  jars. 


314  JELLIES. 


1261.— -APRICOT  JELLY. 

Take  eighteen  fine  apricots,  let  them  be  of  a  nice  red  colov, 
stone  them^  and  cat  them  in  pieces  into  some  syrup,  usuallj  made 
with  twelve  ounces  of  sugar,  but  for  apricot  jelly  it  should  be  rather 
more  liquid  than  for  other  jellies ;  when  the  fruit  is  done,  put  it 
into  a  napkin  to  express  out  all  the  juice  you  possibly  can,  whidi 
you  must  add  to  the  syrup  in  which  the  apricots  hare  been  done, 
and  which  has  been  preyiously  strained  through  a  silk  sieve,  and 
after  having  mixed  with  it  a  proper  quantity  of  isinglass  to  thicken 
it,  finish  the  same  as  all  other  jellies. 


1202. — BA.RBEBBT   JELLY. 

Put  a  pint  of  barberries  into  a  stewpan  with  boiling  water,  corer 
close  and  let  it  stand  till  nearly  cold,  set  on  the  fire  some  clarified 
sugar  with  a  little  water,  making  a  quart  altogether,  when  it  begins 
to  boil  skim  it  well,  put  in  the  barberries,  let  them  boil  an  hour, 
squeeze  the  juice  of  three  lemons  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  to 
this  pass  the  liquor  from  the  barberries,  and  then  the  isinglass. 


1263. — coLouBmo  for  jellies,  cakes,  etc. 

For  a  beautiful  red  boil  fifteen  grains  of  cochineal  in  the  finest 
powder  with  a  dram  and  a  half  of  cream  of  tartar  in  half  a  pint  of 
water,  rery  slowly, -half  an  hour;  add  in  boiling  a  bit  of  alum,  the 
the  size  of  a  pea,  or  use  beetroot  sliced,  and  some  liquor  poured  over. 

For  white  use  almonds  finely  powdered,  with  a  little  drop  of  water, 
or  use  cream. 

For  yellow,  yolks  of  eggs,  or  a  bit  of  saffron  steeped  in  the  liquor 
and  squeezed. 

For  green,  pound  spinach  leaves  or  beet  leaves,  express  the  juice, 
and  boil  a  tea-cupful  in  a  saucepan  of  water  to  take  oft'  the  rawness. 


1264. — calves'  foot  jelly. 

For  one  mould  chop  up  two  calves'  feet,  put  them  on  in  about  four 
quarts  of  water  to  boil,  this  should  be  done  the  day  before  yon 
require  the  jelly,  keep  it  well  skimmed  and  boil  gently  all  day,  it 
will  then  be  reduced  to  about  two  quarts ;  the  next  morning  take 
off  all  the  grease  and  wash  the  top  with  a  little  warm  water,  then 
rince  it  with  cold,  place  the  stock  in  the  proper  size  stewpan  to 
allow  it  to  boil  well,  then  put  in  a  paring  of  lemon,  without  any 
white  adhering  to  it,  two  or  three  cloves,  a  piece  of  cinnamon,  a  few 
bruised  coriander  seeds,  and  a  bay  leaf,  let  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes 
then  take  it  off  to  get  cool.  Have  ready  broken  in  a  basin  six  ox 
eight  whites  of  eggs  and  the  shells,  chop  them  up  together,  squeeze 
A\e  or  six  lemons,  strain  the  juice,  add  sugar  to  the  whites  of  eggs 
and  a  glass  of  cold  water,  then  add  the  lemon  juice;  add  all  this 
well  mixed  into  the  calves'  foot  stock,  place  it  on  your  fire  and  let  it 
rise  to  the  top  of  your  stewpan,  be  careful  it  does  not  go  over,  then 
take  it  off  the  fire,  place  on  the  cover  and  put  some  hot  coals  upon 


J£LLI£8.  315 


it,  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  then  run  it  repeatedly  through  the 
jelly  bag  until  beautifully  bright  and  clear ;  flavour  it  with  what  may 
be  required.  • 

1265.— <3LEAR   JELLY — AFTER   8ETERAL   DAYS. 

Just  melt  and  whip  the  same,  it  will  be  a  pure  white,  do  not  let 
it  get  too  stiff  before  you  put  it  into  your  mould,  but  if  you  require 
a  mosaic  jelly  let  this  whipping  get  quite  firm. 


1266. CURRANT  JELLY. 

Set  on  the  fire  in  a  sugar-pan  a  pint  of  smooth  clarified  sugar, 
when  it  boils  put  in  a  quart  of  picked  red  currants,  in  which  let  them 
boil  for  half  an  hour,  be  careful  to  skim  them  well,  and  at  times  add 
a  little  c^d  water  to  raise  the  scum ;  when  boiled  enough  run  the 
liquor  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin  in  which  you  have  squeezed  three 
lemons,  then  put  in  some  isinglass  and  set  your  jelly  in  a  mould  in 
ice  as  usual. 


J267.^-CUURANT  JELLY   (rED). 

Strip  ofi^  the  currants,  put  them  in  a  jar,  set  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of 
kot  water,  let  it  boil  an  hour,  then  throw  the  currants  and  juice  into 
a  fine  lawn  sieve,  press  out  all  the  juice,  and  to  every  pint  of  juice 
pat  a  pound  of  double  refined  sugar,  put  them  in  a  preserving  pan, 
■et  it  over  a  charcoal  fire  and  keep  it  stirring  till  it  is  in  a  jelly,  which 
ycm  will  know  by  taking  a  little  out  to  cool,  be  careful  to  take  off  the 
scam  as  it  rises,  and  when  it  is  jellied  and  very  clear  pour  it  into 
glasses,  when  cold  cut  round  pieces  of  paper  that  will  just  cover  the 
jelly,  dipped  in  brandy,  put  white  paper  over  the  glasses,  twisting 
xonnd  the  top. 

12G3.— CURRANT  JELLY  (wIIFTE). 

Take  the  seeds  from  a  dozen  pounds  of  fine  white  currants,  and 
put  them  into  ten  pounds  of  clarified  sugar,  boiled  to  grande  lisse, 
take  your  saucepan  from  the  fire,  stir  the  jelly  lightly  with  a 
skimmer,  then  boil  it  up  twice,  after  which  pass  it  through  a  sieve ; 
replace  it  over  the  fire,  taking  care  to  kcop  the  sides  of  the  pan 
clean  with  a  sponge,  so  that  the  jelly  does  not  become  coloured  by 
the  heat  in  boiling,  skim  it,  and  finish  the  same  as  the  red  jelly. 


1209.— CURRANT   JELLY    (bLACK). 

Make  it  the  same  way  as  the  red  currant  jelly,  only  with  this 
difference,  that  you  may  use  very  coarse  sugar. 


1270.— CURRANT  JELLY    (rED   OR   WHITE.) 

Strip  your  fruit,  and  put  them  into  your  preserving-pan  with  a  little 
water  when  all  the  juice  is  extracted,  then  strain  off  the  liquor,  and 
to  every  pint  use  one  pound  of  lump  sugar  into  the  symp,  simmer  it 


3  i  6  JELLIES. 


prentlj,  keeping  it  well  skimmed  until  quite  clear,  then  boil  it  until 
it  will  quickly  jelly  upon  a  plate,  then  iill  your  jars. 


1271. — CHERBY  JELLY. 

Having  taken  the  stalks  and  stones  from  two  pounds  of  dark  red 
fleshy  cherries  put  them  in  a  basin,  pound  the  kernels,  and  squeeze 
the  juice  of  four  lemons  through  a  tammy,  mash  the  cherries  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  putting  first  in  half  a  pot  of  currant  jelly,  then  the 
kernels,  lastly  the  lemon  juice,  mix  these  together  well,  then  haying 
boiled  and  skimmed  a  pint  of  clarified  sugar  and  isinglass  put  the 
cherries  into  a  jelly  bag,  pour  the  sugar,  &c.  over  them,  run  it  through 
till  quite  clear ;  if  not  sufficiently  sweet  add  more  sugar,  if  to  the 
contrary  add  more  lemon  juice,  wet  the  mould,  set  it  in  ice,  and  fill 
it  with  the  jelly,  do  not  turn  it  out  till  the  last  minute. 


1272. — DAMSON  JELLY. 

To  eight  pounds  of  damsons  put  eight  pounds  of  fine  sugar  and 
half  a  pint  of  water,  boil  them  for  half  an  hour  oyer  a  gentle  fire  till 
the  skins  break,  then  take  them  off  and  set  them  by  for  an  hour,  set 
them  off  the  fire  again  for  half  an  hour  more,  set  them  on  the  fire 
again  for  half  an  hour,  set  them  by  for  the  same  time,  do  the  same  a 
third  time,  while  they  stand  off  the  fire  put  a  weight  upon  them  to 
keep  them  \mder  the  syrup;  the  last  time  you  must  hoil  them  till  yoa 
perceiye  they  are  of  a  yery  high  colour  in  the  part  where  the  skin  m 
broken,  then  take  them  off,  set  them  by  to  cool,  and  when  they  are 
cold  drain  off  the  syrup,  and  make  the  jelly  in  the  following  manner. 

Boil  a  good  quantity  of  green  apples,  green  gooseberries,  and 
quince  cores  to  a  mash,  then  strain  them  through  a  sieye,  take  an 
equal  quantity  of  this  jelly  and  the  former  syrup,  and  boil  them  over 
a  gentle  fire  together  till  they  jelly,  skim  it  well,  and  while  it  is  hot 
put  it  into  glasses  or  pots. 


1273. — JELLIES    FOR   ENTREMETS. 

Hartshorn,  calves'  feet,  and  isinglass  are  the  usual  materials  used 
to  coagulate  sweet  jellies,  of  these  three  the  latter  is  the  best,  as 
when  properly  clarified  it  is  the  clearest,  and  has  no  unpleasant 
flavour. 

Jellies  are  made  of  all  sorts  of  firuits,  and  sometimes  of  flowers  and 
liqueurs;  for  directions  to  prepare  them  see  the  various  articles  of 
which  they  are  composed. 


1174. JELLY,    TO    KEEP. 

Take  a  leg  of  beef  and  two  shins,  cut  in  pieces  a  knuckle  of  veal, 
chop  it  all  to  pieces,  one  or  two  old  cocks  and  hens  skinned,  and  two 
calves'  feet,  put  all  these  into  ten  quarts  of  water,  and  boil  them 
down  to  a  strong  jelly,  skim  it  well,  add  some  salt  and  run  it  through 
a  jelly  bag  till  it  is  quite  clear. 


JELLIES.  317 


1275. JELLY   TO   COVER   COLD    FISH 

Take  a  maid,  clean  it,  and  put  it  into  three  quarts  of  water,  with 
&  calf's  foot,  or  cow-heel,  a  stick  of  horse-radish,  an  onion,  three 
blades  of  mace,  some  white  pepper,  a  bit  of  lemon  peel,  and  a  slice 
of  lean  gammon  of  bacon,  let  it  stew  till  it  will  jell j,  then  strain  it  off, 
when  cold  remove  every  bit  of  fat,  take  it  up  from  the  sediment  and 
boil  it  with  a  glass  of  sherry,  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  and  a  bit  of 
lemon,  boil  without  stirring  it,  and  after  a  few  minutes  set  it  by  to 
stand  for  half  an  hour,  and  strain  it  through  a  bag  or  sieve,  with  a 
napkin  in  it,  when  cold  cover  the  fish  with  it. 


1276. JELLY    SAVOURY   TO    PUT   OVER    COLD    PTES. 

It  should  be  made  of  a  small  bare  knuckle,  or  leg,  or  shoulder  of 
real,  or  a  piece  of  scrag  of  mutton;  or  if  it  is  made  of  fowls,  or 
or  rabbits,  the  carcasses,  necks,  or  heads,  added  to  any  piece  of  meat, 
will  be  sufficient,  observing  to  give  consistence  by  cow-heel  or 
shanks  of  mutton,  put  the  meat  with  a  slice  of  ham,  or  bacon,  a 
bundle  of  different  herbs,  two  blades  of  mace,  an  onion  or  two,  a 
small  bit  of  lemon  peel,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  Jamaica  pepper  bruised, 
and  the  same  quantity  of  whole  pepper,  and  three  pints  of  water, 
into  a  stewpan  that  shuts  very  close,  when  it  hoils  skim  it  well,  and 
let  it  simmer  slowly  till  quite  strong,  then  strain  it,  and  when  cold 
take  off  all  the  fat  you  possibly  can  >vith  a  spoon,  and  then  to  remove 
evenr  particle  of  grease  lay  a  clean  piece  of  cap  or  blotting  paper  on 
it,  if  when  it  is  cold  it  is  not  clear  boil  it  a  few  minutes,  with  the 
whites  of  two  eggs,  but  do  not  add  the  sediment,  and  pour  it  through 
a  nice  sieve,  with  a  napkin  in  it,  which  should  be  previously  dipped 
in  hot  water,  to  prevent  waste. 


1277« LEMON   JELLY. 

Set  a  pint  and  a  half  of  clarified  sugar  on  the  fire,  and  dilute  it 
with  a  little  water,  when  it  boils  and  has  been  well  skimmed  put  in 
two  ounces  of  clarified  isinglass  with  a  little  lemon  peel  cut  very  thin ; 
let  these  boil  till  you  have  squeezed  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin  the 
juice  of  six  lemons,  then  pass  your  sugar  and  isinglass  to  it,  and  set 
it  in  a  mould  as  any  other  jelly,  when  turned  out,  garnish  it  with 
dried  jellies. 

1278. MOSAIC    JELLY'. 

This  is  made  from  three  colours  put  into  your  mould  by  little 
pieces  at  a  time,  differing  tjie  colours  each  time,  pink,  white,  and 
yellow,  colour  a  little  of  your  jelly  with  cochineal,  the  white  as  clear 
jelly ;  when  your  mould  is  nearly  full  have  ready  some  jelly  melted 
but  not  warm  and  fill  up  the  mould. 

1279. ORANGE   JELLY. 

Boil  a  neat's  foot  in  two  quarts  of  water  all  day,  then  strain  it  off 
and  put  it  to  get  cold,  take  off  the  grease  well  and  reduce  the  stock 


318  JELLIES. 

to  less  than  half  a  pint,  have  the  peels  of  twelve  oranges  nibbed 
upon  lump  sugar,  getting  off  all  the  colour  from  the  oranges,  put 
your  foot  stock  in  a  stewpan  and  about  one  ounce  of  isinglut*  and 
a  little  water,  boil  all,  then  add  your  sugar  you  have  rubbed  into  it, 
squeeze  the  twelve  oranges  with  one  Seville  and  two  lemons,  strain 
it  to  the  isinglass,  when  it  has  boiled  strain  it  through  a  tammy  into 
a  basin,  keeping  it  stirring  every  now  and  then,  add  a  good  glass  of 
French  brandy  and  a  glass  of  white  wine ;  when  nearly  set  put  it 
into  your  mould. 

1280. — rOR  A  SMALL  PINT  MOULD  OP  ORANGE  JELLY. 

One  ounce  and  a  half  of  isinglass  boiled  in  a  pint  of  water, 
squeeze  six  China  oranges  and  two  Seville,  and  the  juice  of  two 
lemons,  sweeten  to  your  taste,  then  boil  the  whole  together  with  a 
little  of  the  peel,  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  let  it  stand  till  cold; 
before  you  put  it  in  your  mould  add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  brandy. 

1281. — RASPBERRY  JELLY. 

Take  two  thirds  of  raspberries  and  one  third  of  red  currants,  pick 
them,  press  the  juice  throuprh  u  sieve  into  a  jar,  cover  and  place  it 
in  a  cellar,  or  any  otlier  cool  place  for  three  days,  at  the  end  of  that 
time  raise  the  thick  skin  formed  on  the  top,  and  pour  the  juice  into 
another  vessel,  weigh  it,  and  put  it  with  half  the  quantity  of  sugar 
into  a  preserving  pan ;  set  it  on  the  fire,  a  great  deal  of  scum  w&l 
rise  at  first,  which  must  all  be  taken  off,  leave  it  on  the  fire  for  an 
hour,  then  pour  a  few  drops  on  a  cold  plate,  if  it  cools  of  the  proper 
consistence  for  jellies  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  whilst  hot  pour  it 
into  pots.     Let  the  jelly  be  quite  cold  before  covered. 

1*282. llASPBERUY    VINi:OAU,    SYRUP    OF. 

Take  a  large  wide-mouth  bottle,  pour  into  it  two  quarts  of  the 
best  vinegar,  and  as  many  picked  raspberries  as  the  bottle  will  hold, 
taking  care  that  the  vinegar  does  come  above  them ;  let  these  stand 
covered  for  a  week,  at  the  end  of  that  time  pour  both  vinegar  and 
raspberries  on  to  a  silk  sieve,  pressing  the  latter  lightly  that  the  juice 
may  run  through  ^vith  the  vinegar,  when  perfectly  clear  weigh  it,  and 
put  double  its  weight  of  refined  sugir  crushed,  pour  the  vinegar  in, 
close  the  matrass,  and  set  it  in  a  moderately  heated  bain  marie;  as 
soon  as  the  sugar  is  dissolved  let  the  fire  go  out  gradually,  and  when 
the  syrup  is  cold  bottle  it.  The  corks  should  be  sealed  to  exclude  the 
air  entirely. 

1283. ROSE   JELLY. 

Make  a  clear  apple  jelly,  colour  it  ^vith  cochineal  infused  ia 
double  distilled  rose-water,  and  just  before  the  last  boiling  put  in 
half  a  glass  of  the  best  double  distilled  rose-water. 

1284. — RATAFJA  WITHOUT  SUGAR  OR  SYRUP. 

Press  the  juice  from  some  cherries  into  a  pan,  and  leave  it  a 


MABMALADE8.  319 

quarter  of  an  hour,  then  put  it  into  a  large  bottle  with  the  kernels, 
and  also  some  apricot  kernels ;  to  this  add,  if  you  wish,  the  ratafia 
deep-coloured,  the  juice  of  two  or  three  pounds  of  black  cherries,  put 
to  TOUT  juice  a  half  or  third  of  the  best  brandy,  and  then  bottle  it, 
and  when  the  fermentation  has  ceased  cork  the  bottles ;  if  the  air  is 
excluded  this  ratafia  will  keep  years. 


1285. RUM   JELLY. 

To  a  quart  bottle  of  common  white  wine  add  a  pound  of  lump 
sugar  reduced  to  syrup  and  clarified,  then  take  an  ounce  of  isinglass, 
dissolre  it  thoroughly,  strain  it  through  a  sieve  and  mix  it  with  the 

rp  milk  warm,  when  this  mixture  is  nearly  cold  pour  it  into 
white  wine,  stir  it  well  so  us  to  mix  it  completely,  then  add 
a  spoonful  or  more  according  to  the  strength  you  desire  of  old 
Jamaica  rum,  stir  it  and  pour  it  into  a  mould,  or  glasses  if  intended 
to  hand  round  for  eyening  parties. 


HABMALADES. 

1280. — MARMALADE. 

Hannalade  may  be  composed  almost  of  any  fruit,  the  best  howcyer 
for  this  purpose  are  apricots,  peaches,  oranges,  quinces,  eggs,  plums, 
apples,  occ,  they  are  usually  made  by  boding  tiie  fruit  and  sugar 
together  to  a  kind  of  pulp,  stirring  them  constantly  whilst  on  the 
fire,  it  is  kept  in  pots  which  must  not  be  covered  till  the  marmalade 
is  quite  cold,  the  proportion  of  sugar  is  half  a  pound  to  each  pound 
of  fruit. 


1287. — MARMALADE  OF  APPLES. 

Scald  apples  until  they  will  pulp  from  the  core,  then  take  in  large 
hunps  the  same  quantity  of  sugar  as  apple ;  damp  the  sugar  in  water, 
then  boil  them,  keeping  it  well  skimmed,  boil  it  until  it  is  a  thick 
syrup,  then  put  it  to  the  pulped  apple,  boil  it  over  a  quick  fire  for 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  add  the  gmting  of  one  lemon  and  six 
doves,  but  take  out  the  cloves  again,  fill  your  jars. 


1 288. MARMALADE  TRANSPARIINT. 

Select  very  pale  Seville  oranges,  cut  them  into  quarters,  and 
remove  the  pulp ;  put  it  into  a  basin  and  Uike  away  all  skin  and 
seeds.  Soak  all  night  the  peels  in  a  little  salt  and  water,  then  boil 
them  in  a  good  quantity  of  spring  water  till  tender ;  cut  them  in 
very  thin  slices  and  add  them  to  the  pulps.  To  every  pound  of 
marmalade  add  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  double  refined  sugar  finely 
sifted,  and  boil  them  together  gently  for  twenty  minutes.  If  it  is 
not  sufficiently  clear,  boil  or  simmer  for  five  or  six  minutes  longer ; 
keep  stirring  gently  all  the  time,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  slices. 
When  cold  put  it  into  jelly  or  sweetmeat  glasses,  and  tie  down 
with  brandied  paper. 


320  IfABlCALADES. 


1289.— -APPLE  MABICALADIB. 

Boil  some  pippioB  until  thej  begia  to  get  tender,  then  put  them 
into  cold  water,  pare  and  core  them,  squeeze  the  pulp  through  a 
siere,  and  put  it  over  the  fire,  letting  it  remain  till  it  becomes  Teij 
thick,  then  weigh  an  equal  quantity  of  fine  sugar,  hoil  till  the  sugar 
arises  in  sparkles  which  cluster  together,  put  the  marmalade  to  it, 
and  stir  them  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  the  apples  begin  to 
boil,  then  take  it  off,  and  when  a  little  cool  put  it  into  pots,  hut  do 
not  cover  them  till  quite  cold. 

1290.— APPLE  BIARMALADE — PETIT8  OATBAUX. 

Make  a  marmalade  of  twenty-four  apples  in  the  usual  way  with  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pot  of  apricots,  and 
tne  zest  of  a  lemon  shred  fine,  make  your  paste,  and  proceed  as 
directed  for  petits  gateaux  glacees  of  apricots,  sprinkle  them  when 
marked  with  powdered  sugar,  bake  them  in  a  moderate  open,  and 
finish  them. 


1291. APRICOT  MARMALADE. 

Take  some  fine  apricots,  and  choose  from  amongst  them  those 
which  are  of  the  deepest  yellow  and  the  ripest,  they  must  not  be  too 
ripe;  peel  them,  take  out  the  stones,  and  chop  them  up,  weigh 
twelve  pounds  of  them,  and  put  them  into  a  preserving  pan  with 
nine  pounds  of  sugar,  place  your  pan  over  a  quick  fire,  and  keep 
your  preparation  constantly  stirring  with  a  long  wooden  spoon ;  to 
find  out  when  the  marmalade  is  sufficiently  done  let  a  few  drops  fiidl 
into  a  glass  of  cold  water,  and  if  they  do  not  spread  in  the  water 
your  marmalade  is  ready  to  put  into  pots. 

1292. APRICOT   MARMALADE — PETITS   GATEAUXFOURES.    ' 

Roll  out  some  puff  paste  very  thin,  and  divide  it  into  two  equal 
parts,  each  of  which  should  be  thirteen  inches  long  and  eight  wide ; 
moisten  a  baking  tin  to  hold  one  of  these  layers,  on  which  pour  a 
pot  of  apricot  marmalade,  and  spread  it  of  an  equal  thickness  to 
within  half  an  inch  of  the  edge  of  the  paste,  which  moisten  slightly. 
Then  roll  the  other  layer  round  your  rolling  pin,  and  begin  to  place 
it  on  the  first,  unrol  it  gradually  and  carefully,  and  thus  cover  the 
whole  of  your  marmalade ;  press  the  edges  of  both  together,  doi«z 
the  upper  layer,  and  then  with  a  knife  mark  a  line  across  the  middle, 
taking  care  not  to  go  so  deep  as  to  divide  the  paste;  with  equal  care 
mark  three  lines  on  each  side  and  parallel  to  the  first,  keeping  them 
at  equal  distances,  say  two  inches  and  a  quarter  hetween  every  line. 
Then  mark  it  in  the  long  way,  so  as  to  make  twenty-four  cakes  all 
over  the  same  size,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven,  and  when  the  under 
side  is  of  a  clear  yellow  you  may  toke  it  out  and  glaze  it ;  when  your 
gateaux  are  cold  divide  them  according  to  the  marks,  which  may  be 
varied  to  your  taste,  either  lozenge,  crescents,  circles,  &c.  When  of 
the  above-mentioned  form,  with  the  point  of  a  knife  mark  on  each 
cake  an  ear  of  com  or  any  other  design  you  may  choose  before 
haking,  take  care  in  thus  marking  the  paste  to  divide  hut  not  to  cut 
it  through. 


MARMALADES.  321 


1293. — ^BARBBXRT  MARMALADE. 

Take  three  pounds  of  rery  ripe  barbeme8,^e  same  quantity  of 
sugar,  and  a  pound  of  water ;  put  the  water  into  a  deep,  broad,  silyer, 
or  copper  pan,  and  as  jou  take  the  seeds  out  of  the  barberries,  throw 
the  latter  into  water,  tnen  give  them  a  few  boilings  over  the  fire;  after 
ihif  put  them  into  a  sieve,  and  bruise  them  to  extract  the  pulp,  which 
must  again  be  put  over  the  fire,  until  the  moisture  has  entirely  eva- 
pocateo.  This  done,  if  the  pan,  in  which  you  put  your  barberries  at 
mat  was  of  copper,  pour  the  pulp,  which  was  extracted  from  the  firuit, 
into  an  earthen  vessel,  to  prevent  the  acid  of  the  firuit,  when  heated, 
firom  acting  on  the  copper ;  but  if  your  vessel  was  silver,  you  may 
wfely  put  your  pulp  into  it,  when  heated ;  then  pour  upon  the  pulp 
die  sugar,  which  must  be  previously  clarified  and  ooiled  au  casse ;  give 
the  whole  a  few  boilings,  stirring  it  well  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  then, 
pour  your  marmalade  into  pots. 


1294. — CHEBRY   MARMALADE. 

Boil  two  pounds  of  sugar  with  two  glasses  of  water,  skim  it  well 
until,  on  shaking  the  skimmer  after  dipping  it  in  the  sugar,  the  latter 
drops  firom  it  like  icicles,  then  you  may  put  in  four  pounds  of  cherries 
picked  and  stoned ;  boil  them,  and  when  the  marmiuade  flows  readily 
take  it  from  the  fire  and  put  it  into  pots. 


1295.— CURRANT  MARMALADE. 

Strip  your  currants  off  firom  the  bunches,  and  soak  them  in  boiling 
water  until  they  break,  then  take  them  off  the  fire  and  lay  them  on 
a  sieve  to  drain,  and  when  they  are  cold  pass  them  through  the  same 
sieve  to  clear  off  the  seeds,  and  then  dry  them  over  the  fire  till  you 
bring  your  sugar  to  the  fifth  degree  of  boiling,  allowing  as  much 
sugar  as  fruit,  mix  all  well  together,  simmer  it  over  the  fire  some 
time,  then  put  the  marmalade  into  pots. 


1296. — ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Blanch  the  rinds  of  fifteen  oranges  without  any  of  the  white  till 
sof^  then  soak  them  in  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes,  drain  and 
pound  them  to  a  paste,  which  rub  through  a  sieve ;  ascertain  its 
weight,  and  for  each  pound  allow  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar ;  clarify 
and  boil  the  sugar  till  the  bubbles  rise  strongly  to  the  surface ;  put 
in  the  paste  and  boil  them  together  stirring  continually  till  the  mar- 
malade is  done.  To  know  when  the  marmalade  is  fit  to  turn  out  and 
be  potted  take  some  up  between  your  thumb  and  finger,  and  if  on 
opening  them  it  draws  out  like  a  thread  it  is  done. 


1297* — ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Take  eight  Seville  oranges,  three  lemons,  pare  them  very  thin ; 
take  out  all  the  juice  and  pulp,  lay  the  peels  m  twenty-four  hours, 
changing  them  once  or  twice,  lay  them  on  a  coarse  cloth  to  draiui 


322  BLAHOXAHaSB. 

—    -  -  —  — —  ^— ^^-^— ^ 

then  take  the  weisht  of  jniee,  p«Ip,  and  pe^  in  himp  sugar ;  boil  the 
whole  a  quarter  of  9  hour  or  twenty  minutea.  The  peel  dionlA  be 
eat  in  long  narrow  stripe,  be  careful  not  to  leaTO  any  seeds  or  whit^ 
part  of  the  rind. 

1298.— -QUINCE  MABMALADS. 

Gather  the  fruit  when  fully  ripe  and  of  a  fine  yeSow;  rare, 
quarter,  and  core  it,  put  the  quinces  into  a  saucepan  with  a  fitdt 
water,  set  them  on  the  fire  until  they  are  quite  soft,  then  take  them 
out  and  lay  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain ;  rub  them  though,  weigh  the 
pulp,  boil  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar  to  petit  casse,  then  add  the 
pulp ;  stir  them  together  over  the  fire  until  it  will  fall  from  the  i^Kxm 
like  a  jelly.  The  marmalade  is  then  fit  to  be  put  into  pots,  and  when 
cold  cover  them  close. 


1299. — BASPBERBY   MARMALADE. 

Take  double  the  weight  of  raspberries  to  that  of  sugar ;  rub  tiie 
fruit  through  a  sieve  and  put  the  pulp  into  a  saucepan,  set  it  on  the 
fire  and  stir  till  it  is  reduced  to  half,  then  pour  on  the  sugar  previoaiy 
clarified  and  boiled  to  petit  boule,  stir  it  well  in,  put  it  on  the  fir^ 
give  it  a  few  boils  and  then  pour  it  into  pots. 


BLAHCMAHGE& 

1300. — ^BULNCMAMCBB. 

In  three  pints  of  water  put  two  ounces  of  isinglass ;  let  it'l>oil  for 
thirty  minutes,  strain  it  into  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cream,  sweeten  it^ 
and  add  a  few  bitter  almonds ;  ooil  it  up  once  let  it  settle,  then  turn 
it  into  any  mould  you  intend  to  use. 


1301 . — BLANCMANGE. 

Take  one  ounce  of  picked  isinglass,  boil  it  in  a  pint  of  water  with 
a  bit  of  cinamon  till  it  is  melted,  add  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of 
cream,  two  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  six  bitter  ones  blanched  and 
beaten,  a  bit  of  lemon  peel ;  sweeten  it  and  stir  it  over  the  fire.  When 
it  boils  strain  it  and  let  it  cool,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and 
put  into  moulds.     It  may  be  garnished  according  to  fancy. 


1302. — RICE   BLANCMANGE. 

Take  one  pint  of  new  milk,  add  to  it  two  eggs  well  beaten,  four 
spoonfuls  of  ground  rice,  two  spoonfuls  of  brandy,  grate  a  little 
nutmeg,  sweeten  it  to  your  taste,  boil  it ;  when  near  cold  put  it  into 
your  mould,  when  quite  cold  turn  it  out,  mix  a  little  sugar,  cream,  and 
nutmeg,  and  put  round  it  in  the  dish;  garnish  with  red  currant  jelly. 


1303. — BLANCMANGE  EN  StTRPRlSB. 

Take  the  crumb  from  a  rasped  pain  a  cafe,  without  injuring  the 


]ILAirOXANOE&  323 

cnut,  which  ice  with  powdered  sugar  and  orange  flower  water ;  place 
It  a  minute  in  the  oven  or  stove  to  dry,  fill  tW  inside  with  blano- 
mange,  place  it  in  a  dish  and  cover  it  with  firm  blancmange  in  the 
foim  of  a  pyramid. 

1304. — BLANCMANGE  WITH  PRESERVED  ORANGE. 

Rll  the  orange  with  blancmange ;  when  cold  stick  in  long  sticks 
of  citron  like  leaves.  Pour  blancmange  in  a  dish  and  when  cold 
place  the  orange  in  the  middle,  and  garnish  with  dried  or  preserved 


1305.— BLANCMANGE  (uOt). 

Blanch  a  ponnd  of  sweet  almonds  with  eight  bitter  almonds,  pound 
them  Tery  fine,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  then  put  the  same 
qnantitj  of  cream,  with  a  quarter  more  into  another  stewpan,  and 
boil  it  with  some  sugar,  and  when  it  boils  put  in  vour  almonds ;  mix 
them',  well  together,  and  then  pass  them  through  a  boiling  cloth  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  before  you  with  to  serve  it ;  put  your  preparation 
over  the  fire,  turning  it  the  same  as  a  bouilli;  reduce  it,  and  continue 
taming  until  it  is  thick  and  keeps  to  the  spoon,  then  pour  it  ^nto 
a  silver  dirii,  and  serve. 


1306. — ^BLANCMANOS,  BUTCH. 

Put  a  pint  of  cleared  calves'  foot  jelly  into  a  stewpan,  mix  with 
it  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  set  it  over  a  fire,  and  whisk  till  it  begins  to 
boil,  then  set  the  pan  in  cold  water,  and  stir  the  mixture  tiU  nearly 
e(4d  to  prevent  it  from  curdling,  and  when  it  begins  to  thicken  fill 
the  moulds. 


1307. — BLANCMANGE   A   LA  FRAN9AISE. 

Blanch  one  pound  of  sweet  and  a  score  of  bitter  almonds,  drain 
them  on  a  sieve,  and  afterwards  dry  them  by  rubbing  them  in  a 
aapkin,  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  continually  moistening  them  with 
half  a  tea-spoonful  of  water  at  a  time,  to  prevent  their  oiling.  When 
they  are  pounded  as  fine  as  possible  take  them  out  of  the  mortar, 
and  put  them  into  a  pan,  then  with  a  silver  spoon  beat  up  vour 
almonds  gradually  witn  five  glasses  of  filtered  water;  after  this 
nead  a  napkin  over  an  oval  dish,  and  put  your  almonds  upon  it, 
tnen  gather  up  the  comers  of  your  napkin,  and  wring  it  very  tight 
to  press  out  all  the  milk  from  the  almonds,  then  put  into  this  milk 
twelve  ounces  of  crystallized  sugar  broken  into  small  pieces.  When 
the  sugar  is  dissolved  pass  the  whole  through  a  napkin,  and  then  add 
to  it  one  ounce  of  clarified  isinglass  rather  warmer  than  lukewarm, 
and  when  the  whole  is  well  incorporated  together  pour  it  into  your 
mould;  your  mould  should  be  previously  put  into  ten  pounds  of 
pounded  ice ;  when  your  blancmange  is  ready  to  serve,  which  will 
be  in  two  hours  after  it  has  been  put  into  the  mould,  you  must  take 
itouL 

t2 


324         CONFBCTIONEBT,  PBE8ESTED  FBUITS,  ETC 


CHAPTER  XIX. 
COHTECnOKEEY,  F2ESEBTXD  FKTTITEI,  SIC. 


suffered  i 


TBBT  common  dnoK 
Terr  made  bj  thow 
who  preserre  fhnti, 
&c.,  for  iamilj  mt, 
and  ace  not  mffici- 
entljTeiBed  in  the  vt 
of  confectionety,   b 
that     the     preserre 
either  fennenta,  grom 
)r  becomes  candied, 
three  effects  anae  iion 
three  Beptrate  causes      The  fint 
iiom  insuflicieDt  boilmg,  the  se- 
cond from  being  kept  in  a  damp 
place,  assisted  in  some  degree  1^ 
the  £rst  c^uie ,  and  the  third  from 
too  (]uick  and  too  long  boihng. 

Preserves  of  all  kinds  should  be 

kept  entirely  secluded  from  the  air, 

dry  place.     In  ranging  them  on  the 

-closet,  they  should  not  be 

contact  wiu  the  vail.  Mois- 

ipring  exudes  from  some  of 


the  driest  nails,  and  preserves  ioTariably  imbibe 
it,  both  in  diimpncss  nnd  taste.  It  is  necessary 
occasionally  to  look  at  them,  and  if  they  hare 
hcen  atltickod  by  mould,  boil  them  up  gently 
again.  To  prevent  all  risks  it  is  always  aa  veil  to  lay  a  brandy  paper 
oyer  the  ftuit  before  tying  down.  This  may  he  renewed  in  the  spring. 
Fruit  jellies  are  made  in  the  ratio  of  a  quart  of  fruit  to  two  potmoi 
of  sugar.  They  must  not  be  <juick  boiled,  nor  very  long.  Piactioe 
and  a  general  discretion  will  be  found  the  best  guides  to  regulate  the 
exact  time  which  necessarily  must  be  affected,  more  or  less,  by  local 
causes. 

If  you  do  not  possess  a  drying-stove,  the  fruit  may  be  dried  in  die 
■un  on  flagstones,  taldng  care  that  insects  are  not  auffeced  to  approodi 


CONFECnONEBT,  PBESEBYED  FBUITS,  ETC.         325 

gaiden-^lass  to  corer  the  preserve  will  keep  them  off.  If  dried 
in  an  oven,  it  most  be  of  gentle  warmth,  and  they  most  be  suffered 
onlj  to  be  done  slowly. 


sxroAB. 

DIFFERENT   DEGREES   OF   PREPARING   SUGAR. 

The  yarions  purposes  to  which  sugar  is  applied  require  it  to  be  in 
different  states ;  these  are  called  d^eet,  Thej  extend  to  the  num- 
ber of  thirteen,  and  are  named  in  the  following  order : — 

Petit  LUse,  or  First  degree. — Replace  the  clarified  sugar  in  the 
preserving- pan  to  boil  gently,  take  a  drop  of  it  on  the  thumb,  touch 
it  with  the  forefinger;  if  on  opening  them  it  draws  to  a  fine  thread, 
and  in  breaking  forms  two  drops  on  each  finger,  it  is  at  the  right 
point. 

lAsee^  Second  degree, — A  little  more  boiling  brings  it  to  this  point, 
when  the  thread  will  draw  further  before  it  breaks. 

PetU  Perle^  Third  degree. — At  this  point  the  thread  may  be  draw 
as  &r  as  the  span  will  open  without  breaking. 

Grand  Perli^  Fourth  degree. — On  still  increasing  the  boiling  little 
raised  balls  are  formed  on  the  surface  of  the  sugar. 

Petit  Queue  de  Cochon,  Fifth  degree. — ^Take  up  some  of  the  sugar 
on  a  skimmer,  and  drop  it  on  the  rest,  when  it  should  form  a  slanting 
streak  on  the  surface. 

Grande  Queue  de  Cochon^  Sixth  degree. — Boil  it  yet  a  little  longer; 
the  streak  or  tail  is  now  larger,  and  it  has  reached  this  point. 

Souffiky  Seventh  degree. — Take  out  a  sklmmerful  of  the  sugar,  blow 
through  it  and  small  sparks  of  sugar  will  fiy  from  it. 

Petit  PlunUy  Eighth  degree. — The  same  proof  as  above ;  the  sparks 
should  be  larger  and  stronger. 

Orande  Plume,  Ninth  degree. — ^Take  the  sugar  in  the  skimmer  as 
before ;  give  it  a  shake,  and  if  the  sparks  are  large,  and  adhere  toge- 
ther on  rising,  it  is  at  the  right  point. 

Petit  BouLty  Tenth  degree. — Dip  your  fingers  in  cold  water,  and 
then  into  the  sugar  instantly,  and  again  into  the  water,  when  the 
sugar  will  roll  into  a  ball  which  will  be  supple  when  cold. 

Chros  Boulet,  Eleventh  degree. — At  this  point  the  ball  or  bullet  will 
be  harder  when  cold  than  the  last 

Gute,  Ticelfth  degree. — Prove  as  above ;  the  bullet  should  crum* 
Ue  between  the  fingers,  and  on  biting  will  stick  to  the  teeth. 

Caramel^  Thirteenth  degree. — At  this  point  it  should  snap  clean 
when  bitten.  This  point  is  very  difficult  to  attain,  for  in  increasing 
the  height,  the  sugar  is  apt  to  bum,  it  is  better  therefore  to  try  the 
proof  very  frequently. 

Another  caramel  is  much  used  by  the  confectioner,  and  is  of  a 
deep  colour,  it  is  made  by  putting  a  little  water  to  the  sugar,  and 
boihng  it  without  skimming  or  otherwise  touching  the  sugar  till  of 
the  right  colour,  then  take  it  off,  and  use  immediately. 

If  on  preparing  the  sugar,  you  happen  to  miss  the  right  point,  add 
i|  little  cold  water,  and  boil  once  more. 


326         CONTEGTIOKEBT,  PRfiSBBYfiD  FBUIT8»  BTC« 


Obseryatioks.  The  skimmer  should  never  be  left  in  the  preserriiig^ 
pan  after  the  suffar  is  clarified,  nor  after  the  scam  is  removed. 

Be  very  carenil  not  to  stir  or  disturb  the  sugar,  as  that  wodd 
cause  its  diminution. 

In  boiling  the  sugar,  particularly  the  two  last  degrees,  the  sugar  is 
continuously  rising  and  falling,  and  on  falling  leaves  marks  on  the 
side  of  the  pan,  which  the  heat  of  the  fire  would  soon  bum  and 
thereby  spoil  the  whole  of  the  sugar.  To  avoid  this  have  by  the 
side  of  you  a  pan  of  cold  water,  and  a  sponge,  upon  which  wipe  tiie 
sides  of  the  pan  carefully  the  instant  after  the  sugar  has  fidlen. 

1306. — TO  CLABIFY   SUGAB. 

Take  the  quantity  of  fine  white  loaf  sugar  you  intend  to  clarify, 
add  to  it  of  very  clean  warm  water  half  a  pint  for  every  pound;  when 
dissolved  add  to  it  the  white  of  one  or  two  eggs — as  the  quantity 
may  require — well  whipped,  put  it  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  comet  to 
a  boil  pour  into  it  an  orainary  tea-cupful  of  cold  water ;  on  its  rirag 
again  to  a  boil  remove  it  and  let  it  settle  for  twenty  minutes,  sldm 
tbe  scum  from  the  top,  pour  off  the  syrup  into  a  dean  vessel  widi 
sufficient  quickness  to  leave  aU  the  sediment  at  the  bottom,  and  such 
steadiness  as  to  prevent  any  of  the  latter  rising  and  mixing  with  it. 


1309.— eUOAR,   TO    CLARIFY. 

Break  into  pieces  four  pounds  of  sugar ;  into  a  preserving-pan  put 
the  white  of  an  egg,  and  a  glass  of  clean  spring  water :  mix  them  well 
with  a  whisk ;  add  another,  still  whipping,  until  you  have  added  two 
quarts  of  water :  when  the  pan  is  full  of  froth  throw  in  the  sugar,  and 
set  it  on  the  lire,  being  very  carefiil  to  skim  it  every  time  the  scum  rises, 
which  will  be  the  case  as  the  sugar  boils  up.  After  a  few  boilings,  the 
sugar  will  rise  so  high  as  to  run  over  the  edges  of  the  pan,  to  prevent 
which  throw  on  it  a  little  cold  water ;  this  will  lower  it  instantly,  and 
give  time  for  the  skimming,  for  the  scum  should  never  be  removed 
while  the  sugar  is  bubbling.  The  cold  water  stills  it,  and  that  is  the 
moment  to  skim  it.  Repeat  this  operation  carefully  three  or  four 
times,  when  a  whitish  light  scum  only  will  rise ;  then  take  the  pan 
off,  lay  a  napkin,  slight^  wetted,  over  a  basin,  and  pour  the  sugar 
through  it.  The  scum  thus  taken  off  put  into  a  china  basin,  and  when 
the  sugar  is  clarified  wash  the  pan  and  the  skimmer  with  a  glass  of 
water,  which  put  to  the  scum,  and  set  aside  for  more  common  purposes. 


1310. — TO    BOIL   SUGAR   FOR   BASKETS   OR   SPINNING. 

Fill  quite  full  a  pint  and  a  half  stewpan  with  pieces  of  lump 
sugar,  fill  the  stew-pan  with  clear  spring  water,  let  the  water  barely 
cover  the  sugar,  put  it  on  to  boil,  skim  it  all  the  time  that  any  scimi 
arises ;  let  it  boil  fast  with  the  stew-pan  flat  upon  the  fire,  not  half- 
way ;  it  will  not  boil  over  if  your  fire  is  regular.  Then  get  ready 
a  large  basin  of  cold  water,  and  when  it  has  boiled  some  time 
and  begins  to  appear  all  froth  or  bladders  do  not  go  away  and  leave 
it ;  after  having  boiled  so  for  some  few  minutes  have  a  nlver  spooa 


OOKFECTIOlTEBr,  PBEaEBYED  FRUITS,  £TC.         327 


and  dip  it  into  it,  and  then  into  the  water,  if  it  is  getting  to  a 
mbstanoe  pour  in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  free  £rom  pips,  still 
keeping  it  boiling  on  the  fire,  keep  finequently  trying  it  by  dropping 
and  spinning  a  little  in  the  cold  water,  and  when  it  makes  a  crack- 
line  noise  and  is  Tery  brittle  take  oif  your  stewpan  and  pour  it  into  a 
cold  stewpan ;  work  it  well  with  your  spoon,  give  it  one  m(we  boil, 
then  take  it  off  and  hold  the  stewpan  in  cold  water,  stirring  it  all  the 
time,  for  a  minute  or  two,  it  is  then  ready  for  a  basket,  or  spinning,  or 
what  you  may  require  it  for.  It  is  but  very  little  used  now  for  second 
courses ;  at  breaktasts  and  ball  suppers  it  is  generally  introduced  and 
liked,  but  it  too  frequently  answers  the  purpose  of  lock  and  key, 
saying  as  much,  **  this  must  not  be  touched ;  many  think  it  will  do 
again,  and  do  not  like  to  break  through  it. 


1311. — COLOURED  SUGARS  FOR  ORNAMEKTINO. 

Pound  some  sugar,  and  sifl  it  through  a  coarse  sieve,  lay  a  little 
upon  a  plate,  pour  into  it  a  few  drops  of  carmine,  or  prepared 
oochineal,  mixing  it  well  in,  then  put  it  into  jour  screen  to  dry, 
stining  it  6equently,  keep  it  dry  in  a  canister  for  use  when  required. 


1312.— GREEN  COLOURED  SUGAR. 

Pound  a  few  handfuls  of  fresh  gathered  young  spinach,  let  it  be 
well  washed  and  drained  from  the  water,  pound  it  well,  stalks  and 
all,  then  twist  it  through  a  tammy  cloth  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little 
salt,  put  this  liquor  on  the  fire  to  simmer,  and  when  it  is  well  curdled 
strain  off  the  water  from  the  curd  upon  the  back  of  a  lawn  sieve,  rub 
it  through  the  sieve  on  to  a  plate ;  use  some  of  this  to  some  sifted 
siunr,  as  for  the  former. 

This  is  the  wholesome  colouring  in  green  pea  soups  or  forcemeats. 


1313.— CARAMEL   COKSEBVE. 

Clarify  the  quantity  of  sugar  vou  may  require,  and  boil  it  to 
caramel ;  have  ready  some  cases  of  double  paper,  pour  in  your  sugar 
to  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch,  and  trace  on  its  surface  the  formi 
YOU  wish  it  to  have ;  when  cold  break  it  according  to  those  marks, 
oliis  conserve  may  be  coloured  and  flavoured  according  to  the  fimcy. 


1314. — SUGAR  A  LA  SiEIQB. 

Blandi  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bitter  almonds,  pound  them  to  a 
rerj  fine  paste  in  a  maroie  mortar,  with  the  whites  of  four  eggs ; 
when  perfectly  smooth  add  a  pound  of  the  best  lump  sugar  (pow- 
dered), and  five  more  whites  of  eggs,  stir  all  together  weU  until  of 
such  consistence  that  it  may  be  kneaded  without  adhering  to  the 
hands ;  divide  into  two  parts,  tinge  one  with  a  red  colour  either  with 
cochineal  or  boliu  arnMiui,  perfume  it  with  essential  oil  of  roses  or 
bcfsamot  The  other  portion  white  must  be  thus  flavoured ;  g^te  the 
rind  of  two  fine  lemons  on  a  small  piece  of  sugar,  scrape  off  the  sorfMie, 
ml  when  pounded  in  a  imaU  mortar  work  it  into  the  white  paati^ 


328         COMFECTIONEBT,  PBESERVSD  FBtJITS^  BTO. 


•prinkle  your  slab  with  powdered  sugar,  then  roll  out  to  about  half 
an  inch  in  thickness  the  paste,  cut  it  with  a  paste  cutter  about  two 
inches  in  diameter,  arrange  them  on  white  paper  which  place  on  a 
baking-tin,  and  put  them  into  a  moderate  oven  for  three  quarten 
of  an  hour.  Proceed  the  siime  with  the  coloured  paste.  Detach 
them  from  the  paper  when  cold. 

1315. — SUGAR  PASTE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  four  ounces  of  butter, 
a  little  salt,  one  egg,  mix  together  with  a  little  water.  This  is  aa 
excellent  paste  for  a  second  course  dish. 


1316. — TO   CANDY  FRDIT. 

Haying  prepared  jour  fruit,  steep  it  in  the  syrup,  and  lay  it  as 
done  in  an  open  sieve,  until  the  bottom  is  covered  with  one  layer; 
steep  this  suddenly  in  scalding  water.  This  will  remove  any  syrup 
which  may  cling  to  the  fruit.  Lay  them  aside  on  a  napkin  to  drain, 
and  go  on  with  the  others.  You  will  have  ready,  finely-powdered, 
some  of  the  best  loaf  sugar,  sift  this  over  the  fruit  until  they  are 
white  all  over,  without  being  too  thickly  encrusted ;  lay  them  so  as 
not  to  touch  each  other  on  strainers  or  the  reverse  end  of  small 
sieves ;  place  them  in  a  gently- warmed  oven,  watch  them  carefully, 
turning  them  until  dry.  The  warmth  of  the  oven  must  not  be  io- 
creased,  but  must  not  abate  until  the  fruit  is  quite  dry. 


1317. GREEN  APRICOTS,  TO    PRESERVE. 

In  your  preserving-pan  place  a  layer  of  green  vine-leaves,  then 
a  layer  of  apricots,  then  vine-leaves,  and  so  on  alternately  until  yon 
have  completed  the  quantity  you  intend  to  preserve  or  the  pan  is 
filled,  seeing  that  the  last  layer  is  a  thick  one  of  leaves ;  fill  the  pan 
up  with  spring  water  and  cover  down  close ;  put  the  pan  at  such  a 
distance  from  the  fire,  that  after  heating  slowly  for  five  hours  the 
fruit  shall  have  become  soft  without  cracking;  drain  off  the  water 
and  make  a  thin  syrup  of  it,  remove  the  fruit  and  inspect  it  to  see 
that  none  of  them  are  cracked.  When  fruit  and  syrup  are  quite  cold 
return  the  fruit  to  the  pan,  add  the  syrup  to  it,  and  then  place  them 
at  such  a  distance  from  the  fire  that  the  apricots  will  green  without 
cracking ;  it  must  be  understood  that  they  do  not  boil.  Put  the  firuit 
and  sjrrup  into  a  pan  for  three  days,  drain  off  as  much  syrup  as  you 
intend  to  use,  to  this  add  more  sugar,  and  boil  until  it  becomes  a 
rich  thick  syrup ;  drain  off  the  rest  of  the  syrup  from  the  fruit,  and 
pour  the  thick  over  it  when  cold.  The  thin  syrup  remaining  need  not 
be  wasted,  it  will  be  found  useful  in  sweetening  pies,  &c.  ~ 


1318. — ^APRICOTS,    TO    PRESERVE. 

Choose  fine  apricots,  pare  them  thinly  and  cleanly,  and  when  done 
take  their  weight,  cut  tnem  in  halves  and  remove  the  kernels,  lay 
them  with  the  inside  upwards,  take  the  same  weight  of  pounded  loidf 


CONFECnONEBT,  PBBSEBVED  PRUIT8,  ETC.         329 

sugar  and  strew  orer  them;  break  the  stones  of  the  apricots  and 
Manch  the  kernels ;  let  the  ftniit  lie  in  the  sugar  for  twelve  hours, 
tiien  put  fruit,  su^r,  juice,  and  kernels  into  a  preserving -pan,  sim- 
mer gentlj  until  clear;  as  the  scum  rises  remove  it ;  remove  the  halves 
of  the  apricots;  as  they  become  cold  lay  them  in  jars,  and  when  the 
whole  of  the  fruit  has  been  potted,  pour  equally  over  them  the 
syrup  and  the  kernels.  Cover  the  fruit  with  brandy  paper  and  tie 
tightly  down. 

1319. — APRICOTS,   TO   DRY   IN   DALYES. 

Take  two  pounds  of  apricots,  pare  them  quite  thin,  halve  them, 
remoYe  the  stones  and  lay  them  in  a  dish ;  powder  over  them  one 
pound  and  a  half  of  fine  white  sugar,  when  the  sugar  has  dissolved 
place  the  fruit  upon  a  stove,  let  them  do  gently,  as  each  half  becomes 
tender  remove  it,  and  put  it  in  a  china  bowl ;  when  they  are  all  done 
and  the  syrup  cooled  a  little,  pour  it  over  them.  In  a  couple  of  days 
remoYe  the  syrup,  leaving  a  little  only  clinging  to  each  half,  turn 
tliem  in  a  day  or  so,  and  continue  until  they  are  quite  dry,  this  may 
be  achieved  more  quickly  by  laying  them  in  the  sun  or  a  very  dry 
place.  They  may  be  kept  in  boxes,  with  layers  of  white  paper  over 
them. 


1320. APRICOTS  IX   BRANDY. 

Pick  the  fruit,  wipe  it,  and  then  take  the  weight,  put  it  into  an 
ice-pot,  the  lid  of  which  fits  very  close ;  add  one-fourth  of  the  weight 
in  finely-powdered  white  sugar,  cover  the  fruit  with  the  best  brown 
hrandy,  lay  over  the  fruit  a  piece  of  foolscap  paper  doubled,  cover 
down  the  lid  and  place  the  ice- pot  in  a  saucepan  of  hot  water, 
increasing  the  heat  until  the  brandy  is  sufficiently  hot  to  admit  your 
finger  remaining  in  it,  it  must  not  however  boil ;  take  out  the  fruit 
when  this  takes  place,  put  it  into  a  jar  and  pour  the  brandy  over  it. 
As  soon  as  quite  cold  tie  bladder-skin  tightly  over  the  jars. 

Peaches  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  way. 


1321. — APRICOTS,   TO   PRESERVE — ANOTHER  WAY. 

Pare  your  apricots,  and  stone  what  you  can  whole,  then  give  them 
a  slight  boiling  in  water  proportioned  to  the  quantity  of  fruit,  only 
just  enough;  then  take  the  weight  of  the  apricots  in  sugar,  and 
take  the  liquor  in  which  they  have  boiled,  and  the  sugar,  and  boil 
it  till  it  comes  to  a  S3rrup,  and  give  them  a  light  boiling,  taking  off 
the  scum  as  it  rises ;  when  the  S3rrup  jellies  it  is  enough.  Then  take 
up  the  apricots,  and  cover  them  with  the  jelly,  put  cut  paper  over 
them,  and  lay  them  down  when  cold. 


1322. — ^APRICOTS,    CONSERVE   OF. 

(Take  half  ripe  apricots  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices,  dry  them 
orer  a  gentle  nre;  to  four  ounces  of  fruit  put  one  pound  of  sugar 
'    '  ~  to  the  degree  la  plume  forte^  when  the  sugar  is  nearly  cold 


330         CQHFBOnOKERT,  PBESSBVED  FBUITB,  ETC 

pat  in  the  fruit,  tddng  care  to  8tir  it  well  with  a  spoon  that  diey 
may  be  well  inoorporated. 

1323. APPLBS,  GOLDEN  PIPPINS,  TO  PRESBBYX. 

Take  the  rind  of  an  orange  and  boil  it  yeiy  tender,  laj  it  in  ooM 
water  for  three  days,  take  two  dozen  golden  pippins,  pare,  core,  and 
quarter  them,  boil  them  to  a  strong  jelly,  and  run  it  through  a  jcUy 
bag  till  it  is  clear.  Take  the  same  quantity  of  pippins,  pare  and  core 
them,  and  put  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  in  a  preserving-pan  with  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  spring  water,  let  it  boil,  skim  it  well,  and  put  in 
your  pippins  with  the  orange  rind  cut  into  long  thin  slips,  then  let 
them  boil  fast  till  the  sugar  becoines  thick  and  will  almost  caadj; 
then  put  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  pippin  jelly,  and  boil  fast  till  vm 
jelly  is  clear,  then  squeease  in  the  juice  of  a  fine  lemon,  giye  the  whois 
another  boil,  and  put  the  pippins  in  pots  or  glasses  with  the  onqgt 
peeL  Lemon  peel  may  be  used  instead  of  orange,  bat  then  it 
only  be  boiled  and  not  soaked. 


1324. — ^APPLES,  DRIED. 

The  apples  to  be  dried  should  be  put  seven  or  eight  times  in  a 
slightly  warmed  oven,  flattening  them  by  degrees  as  they  grow 
tender.  The  biffin  is  the  apple  mostly  used,  but  the  French  ciab  or 
any  tart  apple  will  do. 

1325. APPLES,  TO   BAKE  WHOLE. 

Put  some  sound  apples  into  a  pan  with  a  little  cloves,  a  small  por- 
tion of  lemon  peel,  some  brown  sugar,  a  glass  of  red  wine,  or  accord- 
ing to  the  quantity  of  fruit ;  put  them  into  a  quick  oven  and  bake 
them  at  least  one  hour.  The  sugar  in  quantity  must  be  regulated 
according  to  the  number  of  apples. 

1326. APPLES   (pippins)    PRESERyED   IX  SLICES. 

When  the  pippins  are  prepared,  but  not  cored,  cut  them  into 
slices ;  take  their  equal  weight  of  loaf  sugar,  put  to  the  sugar  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  water,  let  the  sugar  dissolve,  skim  it,  and  let  it 
boil  again  very  high ;  then  put  the  fruit  into  the  syrup.  When  they 
are  clear  lay  them  in  shallow  glasses  in  which  they  are  to  be  served, 
then  put  into  the  sjrup  a  candied  orange  peel  cut  into  thin  slices, 
and  lay  them  about  the  pippins ;  cover  them  with  syrup,  and  keqp 
them  about  the  pippins. 

1327- ^TO  KEEP  CODLING  APPLES. 

They  should  be  gathered  when  a  good  size,  not  too  large,  and  put 
into  an  earthen  pan,  pour  enough  boiling  water  over  them  to  just 
cover  them,  and  lay  over  the  pan  some  fresh  cabbage  leaves,  let  them 
remain  by  the  fire  until  they  would  peel  easily — but  they  most  not 
be  peeled — then  pour  off  the  water,  and  let  both  remain  until  ^te 
cold.    The  codlings  should  now  be  put  into  a  stone  jar,  with  a 


CONPECnOKBKT,  PRESERVBD  TEU1T»,  ETC.         831 


what  nacrow  moudi,  fill  up  the  jar  with  the  water  which  scalded 
ih^m,  wet  a  piece  of  hladder  skin  and  tie  down  veiy  close,  oyer  this 
tie  some  hrown  paper,  so  tight  as  to  exclude  all  air. 

1328. JLFPLES,   GREEN   CODLINOS,   TO   PRES£B\rE. 

Gather  the  codlings  when  not  bigger  than  French  walnuts  with 
the  stalks,  and  a  leaf  or  two  of  each.  Put  a  handful  of  vine  leayes 
into  a  presenring-pan,  then  a  layer  of  codlings  and  vine  leaves  alter- 
nately, until  it  is  full  with  yine  leaves  pretty  thickly  strewed  on  the 
top,  and  fill  the  pan  with  spring  water,  cover  it  close  to  keep  in  the 
Steam,  and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire  till  the  apples  become  sof^;  take  them 
out  and  pare  off  the  rinds  with  a  pen-knife,  and  then  put  them  into 
the  same  water  again  with  the  yine  leaves,  but  taking  care  that  the 
water  has  become  quite  cold,  or  it  will  cause  them  to  crack;  put  in  a 
little  rock-alum,  ana  set  them  over  a  slow  fire  till  they  are  green, 
then  take  them  out  and  lay  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain,  make  a  good 
syrup,  and  give  them  a  gentle  boil  three  successive  days,  then  put 
them  in  small  jars  with  brandy  paper  over  them,  and  tie  them  down 
tight 

1329. ^ARTICHOKES,    PRESERVED    WHOLE. 

Choose  middle-sized  artichokes,  take  off  all  the  useless  leaves,  and 
trim  them,  plunge  them  into  boiling  and  cold  water,  when  drained 
put  them  into  bottles,  make  them  air  tight,  surround  the  bottles  with 
doths,  and  place  them  in  a  kettleiul  of  cold  water,  cover  the  lid  also 
with  wet  cloths;  when  it  has  been  boiling  about  two  hours,  take  the 
kettle  from  the  fire ;  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour  draw  off  the  water,  and 
vneoyer  the  kettle ;  do  not  take  out  the  bottles  in  less  than  an  hour ; 
the  next  day  tar  the  bottles. 

1.330. ARTICHOKES,    PRESERVED— THE  SPANISH   WAY. 

Take  the  largest  artichokes,  cut  off  the  tops  of  the  leaves,  wash  and 
well  drain  them ;  to  every  artichoke  pour  in  a  table- spoonful  of  Flo- 
lence  oil,  and  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt ;  bake  them  in  an 
oyen,  and  they  will  keep  for  ten  or  twelve  months. 

1331. — ASPARAGUS,    BOTTLED. 

Clean  the  asparagus  as  for  boiling ;  before  you  bottle  them  plunge 
ihem  first  into  boiling  then  into  cold  water;  place  those  which  are  un- 
broken carefully  into  bottles,  the  heads  downwards,  proceed  in  the 
same  manner  as  in  doing  the  artichokes. 


1332. liARBF.RRT   DROPS. 

Cut  off  the  black  tops,  roast  the  fruit  before  the  fire  until  soft 
enough  to  pulp  with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon  through  a  sieve  into  a 
china  or  earthenware  basin ;  put  the  basin  into  a  saucepan  which  is 
not  quite  large  enough  to  admit  the  top  rim  of  the  former^  put  it  on 
m  slew  fii«,  and  stir  nntil  it  grows  thick,  now  let  it  grow  cold, 


332         CONFECTIOKEBT,  PBESEBVED  FBUITS,  ETC. 

measure  it,  to  eyery  pint  add  of  the  very  finest  loaf  sugar  pounded 
one  pound  and  a  h^f.  It  is  necessary  that  the  sugar  should  be  Teij 
finely  powdered,  and  sifted  through  a  lawn  sieve ;  incorporate  tb 
sugar  and  barberries  by  beating  up  for  at  least  three  hours,  that  is  if 
the  quantity  is  large,  an  hour  less  will  suffice  for  a  smaller  quantity, 
drop  it  on  sheets  of  white  foolscap  paper,  they  will  dry  in  any  drf 
place. 

1333. BABBERBIES,   TO    PREPARE    FOR   TARTLETS. 

Take  of  barberries  which  are  without  stones,  the  quantity  you  intend 
to  use,  weigh,  and  for  every  pound  put  aside  three  quarters  of  i 
pound  of  loaf  sugar,  put  the  barberries  in  a  stone  jar,  and  put  it 
nearly  to  the  neck  in  warm  water,  let  it  simmer  until  the  firuit  Is 
soft,  then  turn  them  into  the  preserving  pan,  add  the  sugar,  and  hoil 
gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  As  the  fruit  is  a  strong  acid  no  metal 
but  silver  should  be  used. 


1334. — BABBEIRRIES,   TO   CAKDY. 

Take  the  barberries  out  of  the  preserve,  and  wash  off  the  symp  in 
warm  water,  then  sift  over  them  some  fine  sugar,  and  set  them 
in  an  oven,  often  moving  them  and  strewing  sugar  upon  them  until 
they  are  dry. 

1335. — BARBERRIES    PRESERVED    IN    BUNCHES. 

Choose  those  barberries  which  have  the  largest  seeds,  which  may 
be  extracted  carefully  with  the  nib  of  a  pen,  weigh  your  fruit,  and 
mix  it  with  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  boiled  to  petit  boulet,  boil  them 
together  two  or  three  times,  and  skim  it,  set  it  aside  in  an  earthen 
vessel  until  the  next  day,  when  it  may  be  put  in  pots,  and  covered. 


1336. BEANS,  GARDEN,  PRESERVED. 

Shell  the  beans  when  they  are  about  half  an  inch  long,  and  blanch 
them,  put  them  into  bottles  with  a  bunch  of  savory  in  each  ;  close 
the  bottles  hermetically,  and  proceed  according  to  the  directions  for 

Preserving  asparagus ;  leave  them  in  the  bain-marie  one  hour  and  a 
alf.  If  you  wish  to  preserve  them  in  their  coats  take  care  to  put 
them  into  bottles  the  moment  they  are  shelled,  as  they  change  colour 
80  quickly.     An  hour  in  the  bain-marie  is  sufficient  ibr  them. 


1337. — BISCUIT   OF   PRESERVED   FRUITS   OR  SWEETMEATS. 

Take  dried  preserved  fruits,  such  as  apricots,  grapes,  plums, 
oranges,  and  a  little  orange-flower  marmalade,  pound  them  together, 
and  sift  in  a  sieve  ;  mix  the  yolks  of  new  laid  eggs,  and  fine  pow- 
dered sugar  therewith  till  it  comes  to  a  paste,  but  not  too  liquid ; 
bake  upon  paper  in  a  moderate  oven. 

1338. — BLACK   TOPS,    WUOLE. 

Cut  off  the  stalk  end  of  the  apple,  remove  the  core  without  paring, 


CONFECTIONERY,  PBESEBYED  FBUITS,  ETC.  333 


mix  powdered  white  sugar,  a  little  grated  lemon  peel,  and  a  little 
powdiered  cloyes,  force  this  into  the  holes  made  dj  removing  the 
cores,  laj  the  flat  end  of  the  apples  down  on  a  stewpan,  put  in  equal 
quantities  of  raisin  wine  and  water  sufficient  only  to  half  cover  the 
apples,  set  them  oyer  a  yery  slow  fire,  cover  down,  look  at  them 
occasionally,  and  haste  with  the  liquor ;  when  they  are  enough  done 
black  the  tops  with  a  salamander. 


1339. — BLACK   TOPS — SIMPLE    RECEIPT. 

Halve  and  core  some  large  apples,  lay  them  in  a  shallow  pan,  and 
nft  some  white  sugar  over  them,  hake  them  until  tender  through, 
make  a  sauce  of  one  glass  of  wine,  and  one  glass  of  water,  boiled, 
sweeten  to  taste. 


1340. — BULLACES,  TO  PRESERVE. 

Prick  the  fruit,  throw  them  into  scalding  water  for  a  minute,  take 
them  clean  from  the  water,  strew  over  them  powdered  lump  sugar ; 
the  next  day  pour  off  the  syrup,  boil  and  skim  it,  pour  it  over  the 
Imllaces,  and  let  it  stand  a  day  or  two ;  boil  the  syrup  again,  put  in 
the  fruit,  and  boil  them  together ;  be  careful  not  to  mash  them,  and 
dien  put  the  preserves  into  jars.  When  cold  put  brandy  papers ;  to  a 
poana  of  fruit  allow  half  a  pound  of  sugar. 

1341. — ^BRANDY   CHERRIES. 

Get  the  largest  morel  cherries  you  can,  cut  off  half  of  the  stalk, 
pricking  each  cherry  with  a  needle,  putting  them  as  you  do  them  into 
a  high  glass ;  add  three  quarters  of  the  weight  in  white  candy  sugar 
braised  between  until  fuD,  a  gill  of  Noyeau,  and  then  fill  up  with 
French  brandy,  tie  a  bladder  over  the  bottle. 

1342.— CHERRIES   IN   BRANDY. 

Choose  the  finest  and  ripest  cherries,  leave  on  half  the  stalks,  and 
put  them  into  very  cold  water,  in  about  half  an  hour  take  them  out, 
and  drain  them  on  a  sieve,  weigh  them ;  to  every  pound  of  fruit  allow 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  when  you  have  clarified  and  boiled  it 
to  grand  perle,  put  in  the  fruit,  boil  them  up  two  or  three  times. 
Stirring  them  gently  with  a  skimmer,  then  talce  them  from  the  fire 
carefuUy,  and  put  the  cherries  into  bottles,  or  glass  jars ;  when  filled 
add  to  each  twelve  cloves  and  half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon  tied  in  a 
linen  bag,  put  to  the  sugar  when  nearly  cold,  brandy  in  proportion 
cf  a  pint  and  a  half  to  a  pound  of  fruit,  mix  them  together  well,  and 
pour  them  on  the  cherries.  In  two  months'  time  taste  them,  and  if 
sofficiently  flavoured,  take  out  the  cloves  and  cinnamon,  cover  the 
jan  close. 

1343.^-CHERRIES   DRIED   WITHOUT  SUOAJt. 

Stone  your  cherries  and  put  them  in  their  own  liquor  in  your 
psesenring  pan,  let  them  simmer  gently,  keep  them  moving,  then  put 


334         COXFBOnOirBBT^  FBBSEKTHD  FBUTfS^  XT€L 


them  on  dishes  all  night ;  the  next  day  repeat  the  same  pioceM  ofm 
the  fire,  and  when  cold  put  diem  upon  sieves  to  get  dryv  in  *  ^^ 
oven,  an  hour ;  do  this  at  twice.  Put  them  away  in  boxes  ynfik  wUls 
paper  between  them. 

1344. — TO   DRY  GHEBRIES. 

To  erery  fiye  pounds  of  cherries  add  one  pound  of  fine  sugar,  stone 
your  cherries  before  you  weigh  them,  then  put  the  firuit  into  a  pre- 
serving-pan with  a  little  drop  of  water,  scald  them,  then  take  them 
out  and  dry  them ;  put  them  back  in  the  pan,  covering  wi^^sugsr 
each  layer,  when  dissolved  give  it  a  scald  as  before,  take  them  off  tfid 
repeat  this  three  or  four  times ;  then  take  them  out  of  the  pan  ta 
drain  on  a  sieve,  and  lay  them  singly  on  dishes  to  dry  in  the  son  or 
the  hot  closet.  When  d^  put  them  in  a  sieve,  have  a  pan  that  will 
admit  the  sieve  into  it,  fill  the  pan  with  water,  then  dash  as  quick  as 
you  can  the  sieve  through  the  cold  water,  then  take  out  the  cherxies 
and  lay  them  on  cloths  and  well  dry  them,  then  place  them  again  in 
the  sun ;  when  dry  keep  them  in  boxes  with  covers,  with  white  paper 
between  them. 


1345.— CHEBRIBB   PRESERVSD  DBT  IN  BXTNGHES. 

Tie  up  some  fine  equal-sized  cherries  in  bunches  seven  or  eight  in 
each,  fiisten  them  by  the  ends  of  the  stalks,  throw  them  into  sugar 
boiled  to  «oti^e,  let  the  cherries  boil  up  in  it  fourteen  or  fifteen  times, 
then  skim  and  pour  it  into  an  earthen  pan,  set  it  on  a  stove  till  nest 
day,  when  drain  and  lay  out  the  cherries  to  dry.  To  each  pound  of 
fruit  allow  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar. 


1346.— CHERRIES,    TO   CAlfDY. 

The  fruit  must  be  gathered  before  it  is  ripe,  prick  and  stone  them, 
boil  clarified  sugar,  and  pour  it  over  them. 

1347.— CHERRIES,    TO    KEEP. 

Cut  the  stalks  carefully  from  sotmd  and  perfectly  dry  cherries,  and 
put  them  into  clean  and  dry  bottles,  when  full,  cork  tnem  tight,  and 
rosin  or  seal  them,  bury  them  in  the  ground,  with  the  corks  down- 
wards. 


1348.— CHERRY  JAM. 

Either  Kentish  or  duke  s  cherries,  quite  ripe,  blanch  the  kernels 
of  some  of  them,  use  a  pound  of  sugar,  boil  all  well  with  the  kemelB 
until  the  jam  will  come  clear  from  the  pan  ;  put  into  glass  dishes. 


1349.— CHERRY  JAM. 

Take  three  pounds  of  fine  cherries,  stoned  and  boiled,  bruise  them, 
and  strain  the  juice  firom  them ;  then  take  half  a  pound  of  red  currant 
juice,  and  hidf  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  boil  them  togethei^  put  in  the 


CORFBCnOKEBT,  FRBSBBTXD  VBUIT8^  XTO.         83$ 

dienioi  whilst  thej  are  boiling  and  nprinkle  on  them  three  qmiteiB 
of  a  pound  of  sifted  ragar,  let  all  hm  Tery  fiut  for  half  an  boor  and 
Am  pat  it  into  pots;  when  oM  coyer  with  brandy  papers. 

1350.^HEBRY  JAM. 

HaTiDg  stoned  and  boiled  three  ponnds  of  fine  cherries,  braise 
flwBB,  and  let  the  jnice  run  firom  tnem,  then  boil  together  half  a 
pound  of  red  cnrrant  juice,  and  half  a  pound  of  loaf  si^ar ;  put  the 
ehficries  into  these  whilst  they  are  boiling,  and  strew  on  them  three 
ymteim  of  a  pound  of  siftea  sugar,  boil  all  together  yery  fast  for 
mi£  an  hoQc,  and  then  put  it  into  pots;  when  cold  put  on  brandy 


1351.—- CURRANT  JAM,  BLACK. 

Ga(Aer  your  currants  on  a  dry  day  when  they  are  full  ripe^  pick 
diein  from  the  stalks,  wash  them  well  in  a  basin,  and  to  eyeiy  pound 
of  currants  put  a  pound  of  double  refined  sugar  beaten  and  sifted ; 
vat  them  into  a  presenring  pan,  boil  them  half  an  hour,  skim  and 
keep  them  stirring  all  the  time,  then  put  them  into  pots ;  when  cold 
put  Drandy  paper  oyer  them ;  and  tie  white  paper  oyer  all. 

1352.— CURRANT  JAM   OF  ALL  COLOURS. 

Stnp  your  currants,  and  put  them  into  your  pan,  with  three  quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  ftuit,  add  your  su^  after 
joor  finit  has  boiled  a  few  minutes,  boil  all  together  mashmg  your 
voit  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  boil  all  gently  for  half  an  hour,  then  fill 
your  jars. 

1353. — CURRANTS  PRESERyED. 

Take  the  seeds  and  stalks  from  whatcyer  qruantity  of  currants  you 
intend  to  use,  of  which  a  fourth  part  must  oe  white  currants ;  put 
them  into  a  preserving  pan  with  a  glass  of  water,  let  them  boil  up 
until  the  frmt  bursts  then  strain  the  juice  twice,  clarify  and  boil  to 
cosf^  some  sugar,  an  equal  weight  to  the  fruit,  pour  the  juice  on  it, 
boil  them  together  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  haying  skimmed  it  well 
poor  it  into  pots. 

1354.^-CURRANT8,  TO  PRESERVE  THEM  DRY. 

Stone  your  currants  and  tie  them  up  in  bunches ;  to  eyery  pound 
of  currants  boil  two  pounds  of  sugar  till  it  boils  yery  strong,  dip  in 
the  currants,  let  them  boil  yery  fast  till  the  sugar  flies  all  oyer  them ; 
when  settled  a  quarter  of  an  hour  boil  them  till  the  sugar  rises  almost 
to  the  top  of  the  pan,  let  them  settle,  skim  them  and  set  them  by  till 
next  day,  then  drain  them  and  lay  them  out,  taking  care  to  spread 
the  sprigs  that  they  may  not  dry  clogged  together,  dust  them  yery 
mnch,  and  dry  them  in  a  hot  stoye. 

1355.^k;urrants  for  tarts,  to  prescrve. 
Put  a  pound  of  sugar  into  a  preserying-pan ;  for  eyery  pound  and 


336         CONFBCTIONEBT,  PJEUBSEBYBD  VBUITS,  BTC. 

a  quarter  of  currants  hare  a  sufficient  quantity  of  currant  juice  to 
dissolve  the  sugar;  ^rhen  it  boils  skim  it,  and  put  in  the  curraati, 
and  boil  them  till  they  are  rery  clear ;  put  them  into  a  jar,  cover  them 
with  brandy  paper,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place. 

1356.— CITRON,   CANDIED. 

Pare  the  citrons  very  thin  and  narrow  and  throw  them  into  watei^ 
these  are  called  faggots ;  then  cut  the  citron  into  slices  of  any  Haxkr 
ness  you  think  proper ;  take  the  inner  part  with  great  care  so  as  to 
leave  only  the  white  ring  and  put  them  with  the  raggots  into  boiUns 
water,  when  tender  drain  them ;  boil  a  sufficient  quantity  of  clarified 
sugar  to  9ov0e^  then  put  in  the  rings  and  boil  them  together,  take  it 
£rom  the  fire,  and  when  a  little  cool  rub  the  sugar  against  the  nde  of 
the  preserving-pan  with  the  back  of  a  spoon ;  as  soon  as  it  becomes 
white  take  out  the  rings  with  a  fork  very  carefully  one  by  one,  and 
lay  them  on  a  wire  grate  to  drain ;  boil  and  proceed  with  fasgots  in  a 
similar  manner,  when  taken  out  cut  them  into  proper  lengths  with  a 
pair  of  scissors,  and  lay  them  also  on  the  wire  to  drain. 


1357- CITRON,    WHITE,    PRESERVED. 

Lay  some  white  citron  cut  into  pieces  in  salt  and  water  for  four  or 
five  hours,  then  having  washed  them  in  cold  water  boil  them ;  when 
tender  drain  and  lay  them  into  as  much  clarified  sugar  as  will  cover 
them ;  then  next  day  drain  off  the  syrup  and  boil  it.  When  quite 
smooth  and  cold  pour  it  on  the  citron,  let  them  stand  twenty-firar 
hours,  then  boil  the  syrup  and  put  in  the  citrons;  the  third  day  bdi 
both  together,  and  put  them  into  moulds  to  candy. 


1358. — CITRON,    PRESERVED    LIQUID. 

Cut  a  slit  in  the  sides  of  some  small  citrons  so  that  the  inside  may 
take  the  sugar  as  well  as  the  outside,  and  put  them  over  the  fire  in 
some  water ;  whenever  they  are  near  boiling  put  cold  water  to  them, 
as  soon  as  the  citrons  rise  to  the  top  take  them  out,  and  throw  them 
into  cold  water,  they  must  then  be  put  on  the  fire  again  in  the  same 
water,  and  boiled  gently  until  tender,  then  take  them  and  put  them 
into  cold  water.  After  this  boil  them  seven  or  eight  times  in  clarified 
sugar;  pour  the  whole  into  an  earthen  pan,  and  let  it  stand;  the  next 
day  drain  the  fruit,  and  boil  up  the  syrup  twenty  or  thirty  times;  add 
a  little  more  sugar  and  pour  it  over  the  citrons,  do  this  for  three  suc- 
cessive days,  increasing  the  degree  to  which  you  boil  the  sugar  daily, 
so  that,  at  the  last  boiling,  the  degree  may  be  au  perle,  the  firuits 
may  then  be  put  into  pots. 

1359, DAMSONS,    DRIED. 

Take  damsons  that  you  have  preserved,  drain  all  the  syrup  from 
them,  cover  the  bottoms  of  sieves  with  them,  and  put  them  into 
stoves  which  should  be  hot,  change  the  sieves  every  day  till  they  are 
dry,  and  as  you  change  the  sieves  turn  the  damsons,  and  when  they 


OOKFEGTIONEBY,   PRESERVED   FRUITS,   ETC.         337 

are  not  sticky  nor  likely  to  give;  take  them  out,  paper  a  box  and  put 
them  in  and  lay  a  paper  between  each  layer  of  damsons. 


1360. — ^DAMSONS  DRIED — ANOTHER  RECEIPT. 

Make  a  thin  syrup,  let  it  boil  and  skim  it,  then  stone  your  damsons 
and  put  them  into  the  syrup ;  boil  them  up  once,  then  leave  them  in 
the  s^mp.  Make  another  syrup  with  some  refined  sugar,  with  just 
sufficient  water  to  damp  it,  boil  this  syrup  till  it  is  candied,  then  take 
the  damsons  out  of  the  first  syrup  and  put  them  into  the  sjrrup  you 
bare  just  made;  let  them  simmer  in  k  a  little  over  the  fire,  and  leave 
them  in  afterwards  till  the  following  day ;  then  place  them  one  by  one 
on  a  sieve,  and  dry  them  on  a  stove  or  in  nearly  a  cold  oven,  turning 
them  twice  a  day.  When  they  arc  dry  place  them  by  layers  into  boxes 
with  paper  between  each  layer ;  keep  them  in  a  dry  cool  place. 


1361. — DAMSONS — TO  KEEP. 

i^it  them  in  small  stone  jars  or  wide-mouthed  bottles ;  set  them  up 
to  their  necks  in  a  boiler  of  cold  water,  and  lighting  a  fire  under, 
scald  them ;  next  day,  when  they  are  quite  cold,  fill  up  with  spring 
water,  and  cover  them  closely. 

1362. — DAMSONS,   TO   PRESERVE. 

Pat  a  quart  of  damsons  to  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sagar  powdered 
fine  into  a  deep  pot  with  layers  of  damsons,  then  strew  in  a  handful 
of  fogar  till  you  have  put  in  what  quantity  you  like ;  tie  them  close 
down,  set  them  in  an  oven  or  in  a  pot  of  water  over  the  fire,  let  them 
infuse  till  they  are  melted ;  let  them  stand  till  cold,  then  strain  the 
juice  from  them,  boil  it  up  well,  and  strain  till  clear ;  put  it  to  your 
damsons,  let  them  stand  till  cold,  put  a  brandy  paper  over  them  and 
coTer  them  with  a  wet  bladder. 


1363. — ^FIGS  GREEN,   TO  PRESERVE. 

Sit  some  small  green  figs  on  the  top,  and  put  them  into  water  for 
ten  days,  and  proceed  thus : — Put  as  much  salt  into  the  water  as  will 
make  it  bear  an  egg,  then  let  it  settle,  take  off  the  scum  and  put  the 
dear  brine  to  the  figs,  keep  them  for  ten  days ;  then  put  them  into 
firesh  water  shifting  them  every  day  for  four  days;  agam  drain,  then 
pat  them  into  clarified  sugar,  warm  them  a  little  and  let  them  stand 
till  the  next  day ;  warm  them  again,  and  when  they  are  become  green 
give  them  a  good  boil,  then  boil  some  sugar  to  blow,  put  it  to  them 
and  give  them  another  boil,  and  next  day  drain  and  dry  them. 


1364. — FIGS  RIPE,   TO   PRESERVE. 

Take  the  white  figs  when  ripe,  slit  them  in  the  tops,  put  them  into 
clarified  sugar,  and  give  them  a  good  boil,  skim  them,  and  leave  them 
to  stand  till  the  next  day ;  then  boil  some  more  sugar  au  sou^e^  put 
it  to  the  figs  and  give  them  another  boil,  the  next  day  drain  and  dry 
tliem. 

z 


\ 


338    CONFECTIONERT,  PRESERVED  PRUtT^ 

1365. — FRUITBy  TO  PRESERVE  FOR  TARTS  OR  FAMILY  DBHBRTS. 

Cherries,  and  plums  of  all  sorts,  and  American  apples,  gatlier 
when  ripe,  and  lay  them  in  small  jars  that  >vill  hold  a  pound,  strew 
over  each  jar  six  ooHcte  of  good  loaf  sugar  pounded,  coyer  with  two 
bladders  each  separatdj  tied  down,  then  put  the  jars  up  to  the  nedc 
in  a  large  stewpan  of  water^  and  let  it  boil  gentlj  for  three  houn; 
All  sorts  of  fruit  should  bo  kept  free  from  damp. 

1366. — ^FRurr,  to  presertb  green.  ' 

Take  pippins,  apricots,  pears,  plums,  or  peaches  while  thej  are 
green ;  put  them  m  a  presenring«pan,  coyer  them  wi^  yine  leayes 
and  then  with  fine  clear  spring  water,  put  on  the  coyer  of  the  pan ; 
set  them  oyer  a  yenr  clear  fire,  when  they  begin  to  simmer  take 
them  off  the  fire,  and  carefully  with  the  slice  take  them  out,  peel  wad 
preserve  them  as  other  fruit. 

1367. — fruits,  green,  for  preserving  or  pickukq. 

Take  of  green  almonds,  apricots,  plums,  pears,  pippins,  peacheii  or 
any  green  fruit  intended  to  be  preserved,  tne  quantity  required ;  not 
them  into  a  preserving  pan  (well  tinned)  in  alternate  layers  of  yme 
leaves  and  fruit,  beginning  with  the  vine  leaves  and  ending  with 
them.  Cover  them  with  spring  water,  and  close  down  the  lid  so  as 
to  shut  out  all  air.  Place  it  to  simmer  by  the  side  of  the  fire :  as 
sooB  as  it  simmers  strain  off  the  water  and  take  away  the  yine  leayea. 
Should  not  the  firuit  be  sufficiently  green,  the  same  process  with  firedi 
vine  leaves  must  be  repeated.  A  slice  should  be  used  to  take  them 
out  of  the  pan  with,  and  they  must  be  then  peeled.  For  the  mode 
of  completing  the  preserving  of  each  fruit  named,  refer  to  the  receipt 
under  its  own  heading. 

Radish  pods,  French  beans,  cucumbers,  &c.,  are  to  be  treated  in 
this  manner,  for  preserving  and  for  pickling. 

1368.— ginger,  preserved. 

Take  some  green  ginger,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  pare  it  neatly,  and 
as  it  is  pared  throw  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  to  keep  it  white ;  when 
3'ou  have  a  sufficient  quantity  boil  it  till  tender,  changing  the  water 
three  times  each  time ;  put  it  into  cold  water  to  take  out  the  heat 
or  spirit  of  the  ginger,  when  tender  throw  it  into  cold  water.  For 
seven  pounds  of  ginger  clarify  eight  pounds  of  refined  sugar ;  when 
cold  drain  the  ginger  and  put  it  into  an  earthen  pan,  with  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  the  sugar  cold  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  stand  for  a  couple  of 
days ;  then  pour  the  syrup  from  the  ginger  to  the  remainder  of  the 
sugar,  boil  it  for  some  time,  and  when  cold  pour  it  on  the  ginger 
again,  and  set  by  for  three  days  at  least.  Then  take  the  syrup  from 
the  ginger,  boil  it,  and  then  put  it  hot  over  the  ginger,  proceed  in 
this  manner  until  you  find  the  sugar  has  entered  the  ginger ;  boiling 
the  syrup  and  skimming  off  the  scum  that  rises  each  time  until  the 
syrup  becomes  rich  as  well  as  the  ginger;  if  the  syrup  is  put  on 
hot  at  first,  or  if  too  rich  the  ginger  will  shrink  and  not  take  the 
S'ignr 


CONFECTIONERY,   PRESEBYED   FRUIT8,   ETC.         339 
1369.^-OmGER,  CANDIED. 

Pat  an  ounce  of  ginger  grated  fine  and  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar 
into  a  preserving-pan,  with  as  much  water  as  will  dissolve  it;  stir 
them  well  together  over  a  slow  fire  till  the  sugar  begins  to  boil,  then 
add  another  pound,  stirring  constantly  till  it  thickens ;  take  it  fix>ni 
the  fire,  drop  it  on  earthen  dishes,  set  them  in  a  warm  place  to 
dry,  and  thej  will  be  hard  and  brittle  and  look  white. 


1370. GHERKINS   FOR    SALADS   OR   TICKLED. 

The  best  sort  are  the  Dutch;  thej  are  used  when  boiled  for 
garnishing  salads  and  for  ragouts.  For  boiling,  let  them  remain  one 
minnte  in  boiling  water,  then  put  them  into  the  ragout  or  a  good 
aance,  but  they  must  not  be  permitted  to  boil  again.  For  pickling 
choose  the  greenest ;  cut  off  tails  and  head,  and  rub  off  the  down ; 
wash,  dry,  and  lay  them  in  a  jar;  pour  over  enough  of  the  best 
vinegar  to  cover  them,  and  let  them  stand  for  three  days  ;  then  draw 
off  ^e  vinegar  and  boil  -  it ;  when  a  little  reduced  throw  in  the 
ghcarldns,  and  boil  them  together,  pour  the  whole  into  a  jar  again. 
In  ax.  days  remove  them ;  boil  them  again,  adding  garlic,  tarragon, 
and  salt ;  return  them  to  the  jar,  and  do  not  cover  them  until  the 
vinegar  is  cold. 


1371. GHERKINS,   PRESEEVED   WET. 

Let  your  gherkins  be  clear  and  firee  from  all  spots,  put  them  into 
aalt  and  water,  let  them  stand  two  or  three  days,  then  take  them  out 
and  drain  them  well ;  put  them  in  another  pan  of  water,  scald  them, 
put  them  in  a  tub  and  let  them  stand  all  night;  then  drain  the  water 
ffom  them;  put  them  in  a  pan  of  water,  and  to  every  two  quarts  of 
water  put  half  a  pint  of  syrup ;  put  them  in  and  let  them  boil  over 
a  slow  fire  five  minutes ;  put  them  in  a  tub  again  and  let  them  stand 
tin  next  day;  then  boil  them  again,  drain  that  syrup  from  them  and 
have  a  clear  pan  with  the  syrup  of  a  proper  thickness ;  let  it  boil,  put 
the  gherkins  into  it  and  let  them  boil  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ; 
then  put  them  into  a  flat  brown  pan  and  cover  them ;  let  them 
•tttid  two  days,  then  drain  the  syrup  from  them ;  boil  the  syrup  one 
minate  and  pour  it  over  them ;  the  next  day  boil  them  and  the  syrup 
together  three  or  four  minutes,  and  repeat  the  same  for  five  days; 
put  them  into  pots  and  cov^r  them. 


1372.— OOOSEBERBIES,   PRESERVED. 

Put  one  quart  of  red  currant  juice  to  five  pounds  of  loaf  sugar; 
aet  it  on  the  fire,  and  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved  put  in  eight  pounds 
of  red  rough,  ripe  gooseberries,  let  them  boil  half  an  hour,  then  put 
them  into  an  earthen  pan  and  leave  them  to  stand  for  two  days ;  then 
jMtl  them  again  till  they  look  clear ;  put  them  into  pots  and  let  them 
stand  a  we£  to  dry  a  little  at  the  top,  then  cover  them  with  brandy 
papers. 

z  2 


340         CONFECTIONEBY,   PBESEBVED  FRUITS,  £TC. 

1373.-^OOOSEBEKRIES,  TO   KEEP. 

When  the  weather  is  diy  pick  the  gooseberries  that  are  full  grown 
and  not  ripe  ;  pick  off  the  tops  and  tails  and  put  them  into  open- 
mouthed  bottles ;  gently  cork  them  with  quite  new  corks,  put  tiiem 
in  the  oven  after  the  bread  is  drawn,  and  let  them  stand  until  shrank 
a 'quarter  part ;  then  take  them  out  of  the  oren  and  immediately  beat 
the  corks  in  tight,  cut  off  the  tops,  and  rosin  them  tightly  down,  set 
them  in  a  dry  place,  and  if  they  are  well  secured  from  the  air  they 
will  keep  the  year  round. 

1374. — GOOSEBBREY  JAM. 

Take  what  quantity  you  please  of  red  rough,  ripe  gooseberrief, 
take  half  their  quantity  of  lump  sugar,  break  them  well  and  boil 
them  together  for  half  an  hour  or  more  if  necessary,  put  into  poll 
and  cover  with  paper. 

1375.— GOOSEBERRIES,   RIPE,   COMPOTE  OF. 

Prepare  some  sugar  to  the  degree  of  petite  plume  ;  put  the  goote- 
berries  in  it  to  boil  a  moment,  and  if  for  present  use,  let  them  oool 
before  you  skim  them ;  if  for  keeping,  refine  the  sugar  yet  more  by 
boiling. 

1370.— GOOSEBERRIES  AS  JAM. 

€(et  green  or  white  gooseberries  when  nearly  ripe,  top  and  tail 
them  all,  and  to  every  pound  add  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  si^ar, 
and  half  a  pint  of  water  to  every  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar ; 
boil  and  clarify  the  sugar  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  add  the 
fruit;  boil  gently  until  clear,  then  with  a  wooden  spoon  mash  up  the 
fruit,  and  boil  it  for  about  ten  minutes;  then  fill  in  the  jars. 


1377»— Cl^-'^PES,  GREEN,   TO   PRESERVK. 

Take  the  largest  and  best  grapes  before  they  are  ripe ;  stone  and 
scald  them,  let  them  lie  two  days  in  the  water  they  were  scalded  in, 
then  drain  them  and  put  them  into  a  thin  syrup,  heat  them  over  a 
slow  fire ;  the  next  day  turn  the  grapes  into  a  pan  and  heat  them,  then 
drain  them,  put  them  into  clarified  sugar,  give  them  a  good  boil  and 
skim  them,  and  set  them  by.  The  next  day  boil  more  sugar  to  eoufflk^ 
put  it  to  the  grapes,  give  them  nil  a  ^ood  boil,  skim  them,  and  set 
them  in  a  warm  stove  all  night;  thy  day  after  drain  the  grapes  and 
lay  them  out  to  dry,  first  dusting  them  very  well. 


1378.— GRAPES  PRESERVED   IX   CLUSTERS. 

Take  the  large  Gascoigne  grapes  before  they  are  too  ripe  and  pick 
every  one;  to  every  pound  of  grapes  put  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of 
sugar,  make  a  syrup  of  the  verjuice  strained;  when  the  sugar  is  quite 
clear  put  the  grapes,  after  they  are  strained,  into  the  syrup  into  a 
deep  jar,  cover  them  close  and  set  them  in  a  pot  of  scalding  water 
over  the  fire  to  boil ;  as  snon  as  the  grapes  are  tender  take  them  up 


CONFECTIONERY,   PBE  SERVED  FRUITS,   ETC.         341 


and  boil  the  syrup  a  little  more ;  ^hen  tbej  are  half  cold  put  them 
into  broad  glasses  or  straight  jars,  lay  one  cluster  over  the  other, 
corer  them  with  brandy  papers  and  tie  them  up. 

1 379. G  REEN-G  AGES. 

Weigh  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit ;  the  largest  when  they 
begin  to  get  soft  are  the  best ;  split  them  and  take  out  the  kernels  and 
stew  them  in  part  of  the  sugar,  take  out  the  kernels  from  the  shells 
and  blanch  them ;  the  next  day  strain  off  the  syrup  and  boil  it  with 
the  remaining  sugar  about  ten  minutes ;  skim  it  and  add  the  fruit  and 
kernels,  skim  it  until  clear,  put  it  into  small  pots  with  syrup  and 
kernels. 


1380. GREkN-GAGES  IN  BRANDT. 

Take  some  preserved  greengages,  and  drain  all  the  syrup  from 
them ;  put  them  into  a  jar,  and  to  every  pint  of  brandy  aad  two 
ounces  and  a  half  of  sugar;  when  the  sugar  is  melted  pour  it  over 
the  green-gages;  then  cover  them  very  close  with  bladder  and  leather, 
and  keep  the  jar  filled  with  brandy. 

1381. — GREEN-GAGES,   TO  CANDY. 

When  finished  in  the  syrup  (see  "  Green-gages,  to  preserve")  put  a 
layer  into  a  new  sieve,  and  dip  it  suddenly  into  hot  water  to  take  off 
the  Sjrrup  that  hangs  about  it ;  then  put  it  on  a  napkin  before  the  fire 
to  drain,  and  then  do  some  more  on  the  sieve.  Have  ready  some  sifted 
double-refined  sugar,  sift  this  over  every  part  of  the  fruit  till  it  is 
perfectly  white,  set  it  on  the  shallow  end  of  tlie  sieve,  in  a  slightly 
not  oven,  and  turn  it  two  or  three  times ;  it  must  not  be  cold  till  dry, 
watch  it  carefully. 

1382. GREEN-GAGES,    COMPOTE   OF. 

Pick  the  green-gages  with  a  pin,  and  set  them  on  the  fire  in  a  pan 
of  cold  water  till  they  are  slightly  soft ;  take  them  off  and  let  them 
cool  in  the  same  water ;  now  take  the  highest  degree  of  clarified 
sugar,  put  yoiu:  green>gages  into  it,  and  set  them  on  a  very  slow  fire 
to  make  them  exude  tlieir  water  and  turn  green ;  during  this  last 
operation,  cover  your  pan  with  a  tin  plate  to  prevent  the  escape  of 
steam ;  after  which  take  them  out  and  dress  them  in  four  dishes. 


1383. — GREEN-GAGES,   DRIED. 

Take  preserved  green-gages,  put  them  over  the  fire  to  warm,  drain 
all  the  syrup  from  them,  put  them  on  sieves  and  into  the  stove, 
diange  them  every  day,  and  turn  them  or  they  will  stick;  let  them 
remain  in  the  stove  for  three  days,  then  put  them  into  papered  boxes 
with  a  sheet  of  paper  between  each  layer  of  fiiiit. 


1384. — QREEN-GAOB  JAM. 


Take  some  ripe  green-gages,  rub  them  through  a  large  hair  siere, 
pat  them  into  a  preserving-pun,  add  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar  to  each 


342  GONFECTIONEBY,  PRESERVED   FRUITS,   ETC. 


pound  of  pulp  ;  then  boil  it  to  a  proper  thickness,  skim  it  dean,  and 
put  it  into  smiall  pots. 

1385. — LEMON,    GREEN,    PRESERVED. 

Split  some  small  green  lemons  on  one  side,  that  thej  may  take  the 
sugar  inside  as  well  as  outside ;  put  them  into  cold  water,  and  set  them 
on  the  fire,  and  keep  them  from  boiling  by  pouring  cold  water  on 
them  frequently ;  as  soon,  however,  as  they  nse  above  it,  take  them 
from  the  fire  and  throw  them  into  cold  water;  afler  they  have  lain  a 
little  time  in  it  put  them  on  the  fire  and  boil  slowly  till  the  fruit  is 
quite  tender,  when  they  must  again  be  put  into  cold  water ;  clarify 
some  sugar,  put  the  lemons  to  it,  and  having  let  it  boil  up  seven  or 
eight  times,  put  the  whole  into  a  pan  till  the  next  day;  then  drain  off 
the  syrup,  boil  it  up  twenty  or  thirty  times,  having  added  a  little 
fresh  sugar,  pour  it  over  your  lemons,  and  repeat  this  three  suooes- 
sive  days  increasing  the  boiling  point  of  the  sugar  each  day,  so  tfast 
on  the  last  it  will  be  perle,  when  the  fruit  must  be  boiled  with  it  once, 
and  then  it  may  be  put  into  pots. 


1386. LEMONS   PICKLED. 

Take  twelve  lemons  and  rub  them  well  with  a  piece  of  flannel ; 
then  rub  them  over  with  bay  salt,  and  lay  them  on  an  earthen  pan^ 
turning  them  every  day  for  three  days;  then  slice  an  ounce  of  ginger» 
and  salt  it  well,  and  let  it  lie  in  salt  for  three  days ;  parboil  twelve 
cloves  of  garlic,  well  salted  for  three  days,  a  small  handful  of  mustard 
seed  bruised,  some  cayenne  pepper  and  one  clove  of  garlic  should  be 
put  to  each  lemon;  take  your  lemons  out  of  the  salt,  squeeze  them, 
put  them  into  a  jar  with  the  spice,  and  cover  them  with  the  best 
white  wine  vinegar,  stop  them  up  close,  and  in  a  months  time  they 
will  be  fit  for  use. 


1387. LEMON  JUICE,  TO  KEEP. 

Keep  the  lemons  for  two  or  three  days  in  a  cool  place ;  if  too 
unripe  to  squeeze  cut  the  peel  of  some,  and  roll  them  under  your 
hand,  they  will  then  part  with  their  juice  more  readily,  others  you 
may  leave  unpared  for  grating  ;  when  the  pulp  has  been  taken  out 
and  they  have  been  dried,  squeeze  the  juice  into  a  china  basin,  then 
strain  it  through  some  muslin,  take  care  that  none  of  the  pulp 
passes  through ;  have*ready  some  ounce  and  a  half  phials,  be  careful 
that  they  are  dry  and  fill  them  with  lemon  juice,  only  fill  them  to 
the  top  so  that  they  will  admit  a  tea- spoonful  of  sweet  oil  into  each; 
cork  the  bottles  and  set  them  up  in  a  cool  place.  If  you  make  the 
larger  phials  you  must  put  in  rather  more  than  a  tea-spoonful  of 
oil ;  when  you  want  your  lemon  juice  open  a  bottle  that  you  will 
use  in  a  day  or  two ;  wind  some  clean  cotton  round  a  skewer  and 
dip  it  in,  the  oil  will  be  attracted,  and  when  all  is  removed  the  juice 
will  be  as  good  as  when  it  was  first  made ;  hang  the  peel  up  to  dry 
in  a  place  free  from  dust. 


CONFECTIONERY,   PRESERVED  FRUITS,  STC  343 

1388. — LSM0N8,   TO   KEEP   TOE  PUDDINGS. 

When  you  squeeze  the  fruit  throw  the  outsides  into  water  without 
the  pulp,  let  them  remain  in  the  same  a  fortnight  adding  no  more ; 
boil  them  in  the  same  till  tender,  strain  it  from  them  and  when 
they  are  nearly  dry  throw  them  into  a  jar  of  candy  you  may  have 
remaining  from  old  sweetmeats,  or  if  you  have  none  hoil  some 
■yrup  of  common  loaf  sugar  and  water  and  pour  over  them;  in  a 
week  or  ten  days  boil  them  gently  in  them  till  they  look  clear,  and 
that  they  may  be  covered  within  the  jar,  you  may  cut  each  half  of 
the  fruit  in  two  and  they  will  occupy  a  smaller  space. 


1389. — MAGNUM    BONUM    PLUMS. 

Pick  each  plum  with  your  larding  pin ;  simmer  them  in  a  thin 
symp  very  gently  for  a  few  minutes,  then  put  them  away  into  a 
l^asin,  and  when  your  sjrrup  is  cold  pour  it  upon  the  plums ;  let  them 
remain  so  for  about  three  days,  then  make  a  syrup  of  three  pounds 
of  sugar  to  every  five  pound  of  fruit;  add  the  sugar  to  the  former 
syrup  taking  out  the  plums  first ;  when  the  syrup  boils  place  your 
plums  into  it,  keep  boiling  them  until  the  plums  are  a  clear  yellow 
and  the  syrup  adheres  to  them ;  put  them  separately  into  small  pots, 
cover  them  with  syrup.  If  you  wish  to  dry  any  boil  some  symp  a 
little  longer  and  quick,  and  then  give  that  fruit  another  boil ;  take 
them  upon  a  drying  sieve  to  drain,  these  plums  will  ferment  if  not 
boiled  in  two  syrups. 

1390. NECTARINES  TO   PRESERVE. 

Split  the  nectarines  and  take  out  the  stones,  then  put  them  into 
clarified  sugar;  boil  them  till  they  have  thoroughly  taken  the  sugar; 
take  off  all  the  scum,  cover  them  with  a  paper  and  set  them  by,  tlie 
following  day  boil  a  little  more  sugar  to  a  strong  soufffey  put  it  to  the 
nectarines  and  give  them  a  good  boil,  take  off  the  scum,  cover  them, 
and  put  them  into  a  stove;  the  next  day  drain  them  and  lay  them  out 
to  dry,  having  previously  dusted  them  a  little  with  sugar,  then  put 
them  in  the  stove  again. 


1391. NECTARINES,   TO    KEEP. 

This  fruit  is  bottled  in  a  similar  way  to  apricots,  the  nectarines 
riiould  be  gathered  perfectly  ripe,  and  the  skin  taken  off  with  great 


1392. — ORANGES,  TO  PRESERVE. 

Hasp  or  cut  the  oranges  iu  scallops  with  a  penknife  and  throw 
them  into  water ;  change  it  once  a  day  for  three  days,  then  boil  them 
till  tender  enough  to  run  a  wheat  straw  through,  then  put  them  into 
cold  water  till  the  next  day ;  pulp  and  wipe  them  very  dry,  have  the 
sjnip  ready,  boil  them  two  or  three  times  till  very  clear,  observe  to 
put  the  syrup  to  them ;  when  cold  make  it  the  same  as  for  cucum- 
boB* 


344  CONFECTIONERY,   PRESERVED  PRTTITS,   ETC. 


1393.— ORAKOBS,   TO  PRESERVE  IN  JELLY. 

Cat  a  hole  about  the  size  of  a  shilling  in  the  stalk  part  of  the 
orange,  and  with  a  small  blunt  knife  scrape  out  the  pulp  quite  dean 
without  cutting  the  rind ;  tie  each  orange  separately  in  muslin,  and 
let  them  lie  for  two  days  in  spring  water,  changing  the  water  twice  a 
day;  in  the  last  boil  them  tender  on  a  slow  fire;  take  care  there  it 
enough  at  first  to  allow  for  wasting,  as  they  must  be  covered  to  the 
last.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  weigh  two  pounds  of  double  refined  sugar, 
and  one  pint  of  water ;  boil  the  two  latter  together  with  the  juice  of 
the  orange  to  syrap,  and  clarify  it,  skim  it  well  and  let  it  stand  to 
become  cold,  then  boil  the  fruit  in  the  syrup  for  half  an  hour ;  if  not 
clear  repeat  this  daily  till  they  are  done. 


1394. — ORANGE   PEEL,  TO   PRESERVE. 

Cut  the  orange  in  half,  take  out  the  pulp,  put  the  peel  in  strong 
salt  and  water  to  soak  for  three  days ;  repeat  this  three  times,  then 
put  them  on  a  sieve  to  dry,  take  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  add  to  it  a 
quart  of  spring  water,  boil  it,  skim  it  until  quite  clear,  let  the  peels 
simmer  until  they  are  quite  transparent,  dry  them  before  the  fire. 
Take  loaf  sugar  with  just  sufficient  water  to  dissolve  it ;  whilst  the 
sugar  is  boiling  put  in  the  peels,  stirring  continually  until  all  the 
sugar  is  candied  round  them,  then  put  them  to  dry,  either  before  the 
fire  or  in  the  oven,  and  when  perfectly  dried  put  them  by  for  use. 


1395. — ^TO   PRESERVE  SEVILLE   OBAKGES  WHOLE. 

Cut  the  oranges  in  circles  about  the  thickness  of  a  sixpence,  then 
put  them  in  cold  spring  water  for  three  days,  changing  it  often ;  tie 
each  of  them  in  a  rag  and  boil  them  until  they  are  tender  in  fresh 
water.  To  every  pound  of  orange  put  a  pound  and  a  half  of  double 
refined  sugar,  add  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water  for  the  syrup  and  boil 
them  in  it  till  they  are  quite  clour,  put  them  into  separate  jars  or 
glasses,  and  cover  them  well  with  the  syrup. 


1396. — TO   KEEP  ORANGES   OR   LEMONS   FOR   PUDDINGS. 

When  you  have  squeezed  the  fruit  take  out  the  pulp,  throw  the 
outsides  into  water  with  a  little  salt,  let  them  remain  a  fortnight, 
then  boil  them  till  quite  tender,  strain  them,  and  when  they  are  nearly 
dry  throw  them  into  a  jar,  if  you  have  any  old  syrup  left  add  it  to 
them,  if  you  have  none  boil  a  little  syrup  of  common  loaf  sug^r  and 
water  and  nut  over  them  ;  in  a  week  or  ten  days  boil  them  gently  in 
it  till  they  look  clear,  and  that  they  may  be  covered  with  it  in  the 
jar  you  may  cut  each  half  of  the  fruit  in  two,  and  they  will  occupy 
less  space. 

1397. PEARS,  BAKED. 

Take  half  a  dozen  fine  pears ;  peel,  cut  them  in  halves,  and  take 
out  the  cores,  put  them  into  a  pan  ^vith  a  little  red  wine,  and  some 
cloves,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  some  water ;  set  them  in  a  mode- 


CONFECTIONERY,   PBESEBVED  7BUITS,   ETC.         345 

rate  oven  till  tender,  then  put  them  on  a  slow  fire  to  stew  gently ; 
add  grated  lemon  peel,  and  more  sugar  if  necessary ;  thej  will  be 
sufficiently  red. 

1398. — PEABS,  TO   KEEP. 

Choose  the  soundest  pears,  peel  and  cut  them  into  quarters,  take 
out  the  pips,  and  put  the  pieces  into  bottles,  which  place  in  the 
bain  mane.  If  the  pears  are  intended  for  dessert,  one  boiling  is  suffi- 
cient, but  if  for  cooking  they  must  boil  five  or  six  times;  should 
the  firuit  thus  bottled  have  fallen  from  the  tree,  instead  of  being 
athered,  they  will  require  a  quarter  of  an  hour  boiling. 

1399. PEARS,  JARGONELLE. 

Pare  them  very  thin  and  smooth,  boil  them  gently  in  a  thin  syrup; 
let  them  lie  a  day  or  two  in  this  syrup,  add  more  sugar  to  the  syrup, 
^d  boil  the  pears  again ;  put  them  by  again,  and  keep  daily 
repeating  it  undl  they  are  clear;  then  dry  them  on  a  hair  sieve  in  the 
son  or  the  hot  closet ;  keep  what  is  not  wanted  for  drying  in  syrup. 
Boil  in  some  of  the  same  syrup,  thinly  pared  in  lengths  some  orange 
peels  and  lemon  peels,  add  all  ihe  S3rrups  together,  put  this  peel  for 
a  garnish  when  dished. 


1400. — PLUMS,  CANDIED. 

Choose  your  fruit  of  a  nice  shape,  and  good  size,  cut  them  in 
halves,  lay  them  on  a  large  shallow  dish,  strew  powdered  sugar  over 
them,  and  put  them  in  a  moderate  oven  tightly  closed;  in  half  an 
hour  s  time  take  them  out,  and  place  the  plums  one  by  one  on 
glass  plates  to  dry. 

1401. PLUMS,    PRESERVED   DRV. 

Gather  the  plums  when  full  grown  and  just  turning  colour ;  prick 
and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  of  cold  water,  set  them  on  the  fire 
until  the  water  is  on  the  point_of  boiling ;  then  take  them  out,  drain 
and  boil  them  well  in  some  clarified  sugar,  let  them  settle  and  then 
boil  again ;  if  they  shrink  and  will  not  take  the  sugar  prick  them  as 
they  lie  in  the  pan  and  then  give  them  another  boil,  skim  and  set 
them  by ;  the  next  day  add  some  more  sugar,  boiled  to  toufflk  to  the 
fruit,  any  syrup ;  then  put  them  together,  place  them  in  a  stove  till 
next  day,  then  drain  the  plums  from  the  syrup,  sprinkle  a  little 
powdered  sugar  over,  and  dry  them  in  a  stove. 


1402. — QUINCES. 

Cut  in  thick  slices,  not  pared,  some  golden  pippin  apples,  boil  them 
in  about  two  quarts  of  water  very  fast,  until  the  water  becomes  a 
thick  jelly ;  have  ready  scalded  the  quinces  you  wish  to  do,  and  to 
every  pint  of  the  pippin  jelly  add  one  pound  of  lump  sugar;  as  it 
boib  keep  it  well  skimmed ;  put  in  your  quinces  if  whole  ones,  they 
will  take  longer  boiling,  you  can  cut  them  in  half  if  preferred,  but 


34$  CONFECTIONEBT,  PBBSEBVED  FRUITS^  STC 

they  must  not  be  done  together,  when  jou  think  they  are  done  not 
some  syrup  into  a  glass  to  cooL  Use  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of 
quinces,  and  a  pound  of  the  jelly  to  each  pound  of  quinces. 


1403.— OUINCES,   PRESERTED. 

Choose  the  quinces  very  ripe,  yellow,  and  quite  sound;  pue, 
quarter,  and  core  them,  put  them  into  a  little  water  and  scald  then, 
as  soon  as  they  are  soft  throw  into  cold  water,  and  put  them  to  drain; 
clarify,  and  boil  to  lisse  an  equal  weight  of  sugar,  put  in  the  ttmi, 
coyer,  and  leave  them  to  simmer,  for  another  quarter  of  an  hour,  thco 
take  them  from  the  fire,  skim  and  pour  the  preserve  into  a  pan.  In 
two  days  drain  off  the  syrup,  boil  it  to  perU,  add  the  fruit,  give  the 
whole  one  boil  covered,  let  it  cool  a  Uttle  and  then  simmer  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  after  which  leave  it  till  next  day,  when  proceed 
as  above,  btit  boil  the  syrup  to  grand  perie.  As  soon  as  the  preserre  is 
cooled  put  it  into  pots,  adding  to  each  a  little  quince  jelly. 

A  little  prepared  cochineal  added  to  the  above  will  give  As 
preserve  a  fine  red  colour,  in  which  case  the  jelly  ought  to  be  nd 
also. 


1404. — QUINCES,   TO  KEEP. 

Gather  the  fruit  quite  ripe  but  perfectly  sound,  rub  each  carefuDy 
with  a  clean  cloth  to  remove  the  down,  then  quarter  and  put  them 
into  bottles  corked  tight,  give  them  half  an  hours  boil  in  the 
bain  marie. 


1405. RASPBERBIES,  TO   KEEP. 

This  fruit  may  be  bottled  for  keeping  like  cherries,  they  must  not 
be  more  than  just  ripe. 

1406. — RASPBERRIES,   PRESERVED. 

Take  five  or  six  pounds  of  red  but  not  too  ripe  raspberries ;  pick 
and  put  them  into  a  preserving-pan  with  an  equal  weight  of  clarified 
sugar,  boiled  to  petit  bouUt ;  when  they  have  boiled  up  about  a 
dozen  times,  skim  and  pour  the  whole  into  a  pan  till  the  next  day, 
then  drain  the  fruit  and  put  it  into  jars ;  put  to  the  syrup  about  two 
glasses  of  cherry-juice  previously  strained,  boil  the  sugar  to  souffle 
and  then  pour  it  over  the  raspberries,  add  afterwards  about  a  spoon- 
ful of  currant-juice  to  each  pot,  and  when  cold  lay  on  brandy  paper, 
and  tie  them  down. 


1407.— BASPBERRY  JAM. 

To  every  pound  of  fruit  use  a  pound  of  su^ar,  but  always  boil  the 
firuit  well  before  you  add  the  sugar  to  it,  it  will  be  a  better  colour; 
put  your  fruit  in  your  preserving-pan,  mashing  them  with  a  long 
wooden  spoon,  after  boiling  them  a  few  minutes  add  the  same  quan- 
tity of  sugar  as  frui^  boiling  it  for  half  an  hour,  keeping  it  ^well 
stirred.     When  sufBiciently  r^uced  fill  your  jars. 


CONF£CTION£BY,  PBESEBVED  FRUITS,   ETC.  347 

1408. — ^RHUBAKB  PRESERYB. 

Bhabarb  preserve,  if  made  according  to  the  following^directiona, 
is  almost  eaual  to  tlie  celebrated  Scotch  marmalade.  Frocure  six 
oranges,  peel  them  and  take  away  the  white  rind  and  the  kernels, 
then  slice  the  pulp  into  the  stewpan  along  with  the  peel  cut  very 
small,  add  thereto  a  quart  of  rhubarb  cut  fine,  and  from  one  pound 
to  one  pound  and  a  milf  of  loaf  sugar ;  boil  the  whole  down  as  for 
other  preserves. 


1409. SAMPHIRE,   TO    DRY   OR   PRESERVE. 

Take  it  in  bunches  as  it  grows,  set  a  large  deep  stewpan  full  of 
water  on  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  throw  in  a  little  salt,  and  put  in 
tibe  samphire,  when  it  looks  of  a  fine  green  remove  the  pan  directly 
firom  the  fiie  and  take  oat  the  samphire  with  a  fork,  lay  it  on  sieves 
to  drain ;  when  cold  lay  it  on  earthern  plates,  strew  sugar  well  over  it ; 
next  day  turn  them  on  a  sieve  and  strew  it  again  with  sugar,  keep 
turning  daily  until  it  is  dry,  take  care  the  stove  is  not  too  hot. 


1410. SIBERIAN   CRABS,    TO   PRESERVE. 

Take  their  weight  in  sugar,  make  a  syrup  with  apple  jelly ;  when 
well  boiled  prick  the  crabs  and  put  into  it,  let  them  boil  a  few 
minutes,  then  take  them  out  and  put  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain,  when 
cold  put  them  again  into  the  syrup,  boil  it  a  few  minutes  more  and 
drain  them  as  before ;  do  this  a  third  time,  observing  the  same  rule  as 
at  first;  then  put  them  into  glasses  or  jars,  and  pour  the  jelly  boiling 
oyer  them. 


1411. — STRAWBERRY  JAH. 

Take  some  scarlet  strawberries  quite  ripe,  bruise  them  well^and 
add  the  juice  of  other  strawberries;  take  oi  eaual  weight  of  lump 
sugar,  pound  and  sift  it,  stir  it  tliorougfaly  into  tne  firoit  and  boil  it 
twenty  minutes  over  a  slow  fire,  taking  off  the  seam  as  it  rises ;  pour 
it  into  glasses  or  jars  and  when  cold  tie  them  down. 


1412. STRAWBEHIUES,    PARISIAN   SOUFFJUfe. 

Take  the  finest  strawberries  yon  can  proenre,  pick,  cmsl^  and  rub 
them  through  a  sieve.  Wliisk  the  whites  of  eighteen  eggs  to  a  fine 
froth,  add  to  it  a  pound  and  a  half  of  powdered  &^gar ;  stir  them 
together  as  lightly  as  possible ;  mix  then  with  the  strawberries. 
Pour  the  whole  into  a  croustede,  and  bake  it  for  an  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven  ;  when  done,  glaze  it  and  serve. 

1413.— fiTRAWBERRIEB  HUBBERYED  IH  WINE. 

Put  some  very  large  strawberries  into  a  gooseberry  bottle,  and 
strew  in  three  spoonfuls  of  fine  sugar ;  fill  up  with  Madeira  or  good 
sherry. 


348         C0N7ECTI0KE&T,   PBESEBTED  FBCITS,   £TC. 
1414, — STRAWBERRY  CONSERVE. 

Take  some  very  ripe  fresh  strawberries, pick,  and  crush  them  throngli 
a  tammy ;  for  every  dessert-spoonful  of  juice  allow  six  ounces  of 
■urar;  boil  this  to  farU  perte,  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  pouc  in  the 
juice,  stir  them  together  with  a  siWer  spoon  until  the  conserre  b^iw 
to  whiten  and  dry,  then  put  it  into  moulds  or  paper  cases ;  if  the 
conserve  be  too  white  add  u  little  carmine  to  the  syrap. 

1415. — ^TO  rSESERVB  STRAWBERRIES  WHOLE. 

Take  equal  wcishts  of  the  frait  and  double  reBned  sugar;  lay  the 
former  in  a  large  dish  and  sprinkle  half  the  sugar  in  fine  ponder  over, 
give  a  gentle  snake  to  the  dish  that  the  sugar  muy  touch  the  under 
side  of  the  fruit;  next  day  make  a  thin  syrup  with  the  remaind«r  of 
the  sugar,  and  instead  of  water  allow  one  pint  of  red  curmnt  juiof  to 
every  pound  of  sti&wbemes,  in  this  simmer  them  until  suffidaatly 
jellied ;  choose  the  largest  scarlets  or  others  when  not  dead  lipe, 
in  either  of  the  above  ways  they  eat  welt  sfrved  in  thin  cream  hi 
glasses. 


PICKLES.  349 


CHAPTER   XX. 

PICKLES. 

RULES   TO   BE   OBSERVED    IN   riCKLINO. 

FhKnire  always  the  best  white  wike  yikegar.  This  can  onlj  be 
obtained  hj  dealing  with  a  respectable  tradesman  upon  whom  you 
can  depend.  Vinegar  is  so  grossly  adulterated  that  it  is  really  a 
difficulty  to  obtain  it  pure. 

Orleans  yikegar,  although  the  dearest  is  the  best.  The  tuccess 
of  your  pickle  depends  on  the  goodne$$  of  your  vinegar. 

Use  glass  bottles  for  your  pickles ;  if  earthem  jars,  they  must  bo 
murlazed,  as  the  rinegar  acting  upon  the  glaze  produces  a  mineral 
poison.  Use  saucepans  lined  witn  earthenware  or  stone  pipkins  to 
boil  your  vinegar  in.  If  you  are  compelled  to  use  tin,  ao  not  let 
your  vinegar  remain  in  it  one  moment  longer  than  actually  necessary; 
employ  also  wooden  knives  and  forks  in  the  preparation  of  your 
pickles.  Fill  your  jars  three  parts  full  with  the  articles  to  be  pickled, 
and  then  add  vinegar  up  to  the  neck  of  the  jar  or  bottle. 

When  greening,  keep  the  pickles  covered  down,  or  the  evaporation 
of  the  steam  will  injure  the  colour ;  a  little  nut  of  alum  may  be 
added  to  crisp  the  pickles,  but  it  should  be  very  small  in  proportion 
to  the  quantity,  or  it  will  give  a  disagreeable  flavour. 


1416. AXMOND,    GREEK,    FICKLE. 

Boil  vinegar  according  to  the  quantity  of  pickle  you  want ;  scum 
it  and  put  in  salt,  mace,  ginger,  Jamaica,  and  white  pepper,  put  it 
into  a  jar  and  let  it  stand  till  cold,  then  add  the  almonds  cut  in 
half,  letting  the  liquor  cover  them. 


1417. APPLE   CODLINGS,   TO    PICKLK. 

Gather  the  codlings  when  of  the  size  of  a  large  double  walnut ; 
take  a  pan  and  make  a  thick  layer  of  vine  leaves  at  the  bottom ;  put 
in  the  codlings  and  cover  them  well  with  vine  leaves  and  spring 
water,  and  put  them  over  a  slow  fire  till  they  are  sufficiently  tender 
to  pare  the  skins  with  ease  with  a  small  sharp  knife,  put  them  into 
the  same  water  with  vine  leaves  as  before;  cover  them  close,  and 
set  the  pan  at  a  short  distance  from  the  fire  until  they  are  of  a  fine 


350  PICKLES. 


green,  then  drain  them  in  a  cullender  till  they  are  cold ;  put  them 
into  jars  with  some  mace  and  a  clove  or  two  of  garlic,  according 
to  the  quantity  of  the  apples,  and  cover  them  with  distilled  vinegar; 
pour  over  mutton  fat,  and  tie  them  down  with  a  bladder  and  leather 
very  tight. 

I  1418. — ^ABTICHOKES    PICKLED. 

Boil  the  artichokes  till  you  can  pull  the  leaves  off;  take  out  the 
choke  and  cut  away  the  stalk,  be  careful  that  the  knife  does  not 
touch  the  top;  throw  them  into  salt  and  water,  when  they  have  lain 
an  hour  take  them  out  and  drain  them,  then  put  them  into  glasses 
or  jars,  and  put  a  little  mace  and  sliced  nutmeg  between;  fill  them 
with  vinegar  and  spring  water,  cover  your  jars  close. 


1419. — ASPABAGUS   PICKLED. 

Cut  and  wash  the  green  heads  of  the  largest  asparagus;  lettiiem 
lie  two  or  three  hours  in  cold  water ;  scald  them  very  carefully  in 
fialt  and  water,  then  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  cool;  make  a  pidde 
according  to  the  quantity  of  your  asparagus,  of  white  wine  vmegar 
and  bay  salt,  and  boil  it.  To  a  gallon  of  pickle  put  two  nutmegs,  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  the  same  of  whole  white  pepper,  and 
pour  the  pickle  hot  over  them ;  cover  the  iar  with  a  thick  doth,  and 
let  it  stand  a  week  then  boil  the  pickle,  when  it  has  stood  ^nn^jy^r 
veek  boil  it  a  third  time ;  when  cold  cover  the  jar  dose. 


1420. — BBAN8,   FBENCH,    PICKLED. 

Lay  them  in  salt  and  water  for  nine  days,  then  add  a  fittle 
vinegar  and  boil  them  in  the  liquor;  when  they  become  green 
drain  them,  wipe  them  dry,  and  put  the  beans  into  a  jar;  boil 
flome  vinegar,  ginger,  mace,  pepper,  cloves,  and  mustard-seed,  all 
bruised,  and  while  hot  pour  it  on  the  beans ;  cover  them  dose 
when  cold. 


1421. — BBAKS,    FBENCU,  PICKLED. 

Get  them  before  they  are  stringy,  as  you  do  not  remove  the  tops 
and  tails ;  put  them  in  a  very  strong  brine,  and  let  them  lie  until 
they  become  yellow;  drain  the  liquor  from  them,  and  dry  them  in  a 
doth,  then  put  them  into  a  stone  jar,  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  pour* 
ing  upon  them  boiling  vinegar  every  day ;  be  sure  to  keep  in  the 
fiteam,  and  in  a  few  days  they  will  become  green. 


1422.— CABBAGK,    BED,   PICKLED. 

Take  about  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cochineal  and  put  it  into  a 
little  bag,  and  boil  it  with  as  much  vinegar  as  you  think  enough 
for  the  cabbage,  with  a  little  salt  and  bay  salt ;  when  it  boils  scdd 
the  cabbage  with  it,  then  boil  it  up  again  and  put  a  little  ginger 
and  pepper  into  it,  then  put  it  somewhere  to  cool;  when  cold  put 
the  cabbage  into  jars,  and  put  the  pickle  upon  it  and  tie  it  down. 


TICKLES.  351 


1423. — CABBiiGE,    BED,   TO  PICKXE. 

Quarter  a  purple  red  cabbage,  cut  out  the  stalk,  then  slice  down 
the  cabbage  endways ;  put  them  on  a  drying  sieve,  sprinkling  each 
layer  of  cabbage  with  salt,  which  lay  and  drain  two  or  three  days ; 
then  put  it  into  a  jar,  boil  some  vinegar  with  spice  tied  up  in  a 
muslin  bag ;  cut  a  beetroot  of  good  colour  into  slices,  the  branches 
of  cauliflower  cut  off,  after  it  has  lain  in  salt,  will  look  and  be  of  a 
beautiful  red ;  put  it  into  an  earthen  jar,  and  pomr  the  boiling  Tine- 
gar  over  it. 

1424.— <;abba.gb,  white,  pickled. 

Slice  your  cabbage  thin,  then  lay  it  in  salt  for  twenty-four  hours, 
strain  it  very  dry,  then  put  it  in  a  stone  jar  with  allspice,  mace, 
and  vinegar,  and  pour  it  on  boiling  hot,  tie  it  very  close,  repeat  the 
Tinegar  three  times,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

1425. — CABBAGE,    PURPLE,   TO    PICKLE. 

Take  two  cauliflowers,  two  red  cabbages,  half  a  peck  of  kidney 
bema,  stick  with  six  cloves  of  garlic  on  each  stick,  wash  all  well; 
give  them  one  boil  up,  then  strain  them  in  a  sieve,  lay  them  leaf 
by  leaf  upon  a  large  table  and  salt  them  with  bay  salt;  then  lay 
ibem  to  dry  in  the  sun,  or  in  a  slow  oven,  imtil  as  dry  as  cork. 


1426.— CELEEY,   TO    PICKLE. 

Separate  the  stalks  from  the  head,  clean  them  thoroughly,  and 
put^tnem  into  salt  and  water  strong  enough  to  bear  an  egg;  let 
them  remain  in  this  for  a  week  or  ten  days,  or  until  wanted  to 
pickle;  then  take  them  out,  wash  them  well  in  clean  water,  drain 
aryy  place  in  a  jar,  and  pour  boiling  vinegar  over,  to  which  any 
approved  spices  may  have  been  added.  As  is  usual  for  pickling 
keep  it  well  covered  with  vinegar;  if  the  celery  is  allowed  to 
remain  a  long  time  in  salt  and  water,  it  will  be  necessary  to  soak  it 
in  clean  water  for  a  day  or  two,  changing  the  water  occasionally. 


1427.— cue UMBEB8,   TOUNG. 

Choose  nice  young  gherkins,  lay  them  upon  dishes,  sprinkle  salt 
over  them,  let  them  lie  a  week,  drain  them  off,  and  put  them  into 
atone  jars ;  pour  boiling  white  vinegar  over  them,  place  them  near 
the  fire,  cover  them  well  with  vine  leaves,  and  if  not  a  good  green 
pour  off  the  vinegar  and  boil  it  again ;  cover  them  with  fresh  vine 
leaves  and  continue  doing  so  until  they  are  a  good  colour,  as  to 
make  a  better  green  you  must  use  a  metal  stewpan,  or  brass  skillets, 
which  are  very  pernicious  and  poisonous. 

Use  wooden  spoons  with  holes  to  dish  all  pickles,  keeping  them 
always  well  covered  and  free  from  air  getting  to  them. 


1428.— CUCUKBBBS  AND  OKIONS  TOOXTHSR. 

To  a  dozen  cucumbers  put  three  large  onions  cut  in  thick  slices ; 


352  PICKLES. 

sprinkle  salt  over  them ;  next  daj  drain  them  for  some  hours,  then 
put  them  into  a  stone  jar,  pour  boiling  vinegar  over  them,  keep 
them  by  side  of  the  fire,  repeat  the  boiling  vinegar,  keep  in  the 
steam,  and  so  on  \mtil  green ;  the  last  time  put  in  your  ginger  and 
pepper  ;  put  it  in  small  stone  jars. 


1429. — ELDER   BUDS   PICKLED. 

The  elder  buds  should  be  gathered  when  they  are  about  the  sixe 
of  hop  tops ;  put  them  into  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  water  for  nine 
days,  and  stir  them  two  or  three  times  a  day ;  put  them  into  a  pan, 
cover  them  with  vine  leaves,  and  pour  over  the  water  they  came 
out  of.  Set  them  over  a  slow  fire  tul  they  become  quite  green,  and 
then  make  a  pickle  of  them  of  allegar,  made  of  sour  ale,  a  little 
mace,  a  few  shalots,  and  some  ginger  sliced,  boil  this  two  or  three 
minutes  and  pour  it  upon  the  buds,  then  tie  them  down  and  keep 
them  in  a  very  dry  place. 

1430. GHERKINS   PICKLED. 

Choose  your  gherkins  very  green  and  straight;  brush  and  place  a 
layer  in  a  pan,  sprinkle  them  with  fine  salt,  then  another  layer  of 
gherkins,  which  sprinkle  with  salt  also,  and  continue  this  operation 
imtil  you  have  used  nearly  a  bushel  of  gherkins ;  leave  them  in  the 
salt  for  twenty-four  hours,  which  will  draw  all  the  water  from 
them ;  at  the  end  of  that  time  drain  and  place  them  in  a  jar,  with 
a  handful  of  allspice,  the  same  of  tarragon,  a  little  balm,  ten  shalots, 
six  cloves  of  garlic,  two  or  three  long  peppers,  twenty  cloves,  a 
lemon  cut  in  quarters,  and  two  small  handfuls  of  salt.  Boil  two 
gallons  of  the  best  vinegar  a  second  time,  and  pour  it  on  again  the 
following  day,  boil  the  vinegar  for  the  third  time,  pour  it  over  the 
gherkins,  and  when  quite  cold  cover  the  jar  with  a  wet  parchment 


1431. — GRAPES   PICKLED. 

The  grapes  must  be  at  their  full  growth,  but  not  ripe ;  cut  them 
in  bunches,  put  them  in  a  jar  with  vine  leaves  between  each  layer 
of  grapes  until  the  jar  is  filled  ;  then  take  as  much  spring  water  as 
will  cover  the  grapes  and  the  leaves.  As  it  heats  put  in  as  much  salt 
as  will  make  a  brine  sufficiently  strong  to  bear  an  egg,  you  may 
use  half  bay  salt  and  half  common  salt;  when  it  boUs  skim  it, 
strain  it  through  a  flannel  bag  and  let  it  .stand  to  settle,  by  the 
time  it  is  cold  it  will  be  quite  settled ;  strain  it  a  second  time 
through  a  flannel  bag,  then  pour  it  into  a  jar  upon  the  grapes, 
which  must  be  well  covered;  fill  the  jar  with  vine  leaves,  then  tie  it 
over  with  a  double  cloth  and  set  a  plate  upon  it;  let  it  stand  for 
two  days,  then  take  off*  the  cloth,  pour  away  the  brine,  then  take 
out  the  leaves  and  the  grapes  and  lay  them  between  two  cloths  to 
dry,  then  take  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  one  quart  of  spring  water 
and  one  pound  of  coarse  sugar,  boil  it  for  a  short  time  and  skim  it 
very  clean  as  it  boils ;  let  it  stand  till  it  is  quite  cold.  Wipe  the  jar 
very  clean  and  dry,  lay  some  fresh  vine  leaves  at  the   bottom 


PICKLES«  353 


between  every  bunch  of  grapes  and  on  the  top;  then  pour  and 
strain  the  pickle  on  the  grapes,  fill  the  jar,  let  the  pickle  be  above 
the  grapes,  tie  up  a  thin  piece  of  board  in  a  flannel,  lay  it  on  the 
grapes  to  keep  them  under  the  pickle,  tie  them  down  with  a 
bladder,  and  over  that  a  leather,  always  keeping  the  grapes  under 
the  pickle. 

1432. — HEKRINOS,  TO   PICKLE. 

Let  the  fish  be  well  cleaned  and  gutted  but  not  opened ;  take 
salt,  pepper,  mace,  nutmeg,  pound  and  mix  these  spices  well,  then 
rub  a  pan  with  an  onion,  strew  some  of  the  spices  over  the  bottom, 
and  put  as  many  fish  as  will  lie  flat  on  the  bottom,  then  put  a  layer 
of  sliced  onions,  and  then  fish,  and  so  on  alternately  till  the  pan 
be  filled ;  strew  the  pounded  spice  between  each  layer,  pour  over 
the  best  vinegar  so  as  to  cover  the  whole,  tie  a  brown  paper  over 
the  pan,  and  bake  till  the  bones  are  soft. 

£brats  and  mackerel  are  likewise  done  in  this  way. 

llie  heads  and  tails  must  be  cut  off. 


1433. — INDIA   PICKLE. 

Take  one  pound  of  ginger,  put  it  into  a  pan  with  salt  and  water, 
and  let  it  lie  all  night,  then  scrape  it  and  cut  it  into  thin  slices,  put 
it  into  a  pan  with  half  a  pound  of  bay  salt,  and  let  it  lie  till  all  the 
following  ingredients  are  prepared ;  a  pound  of  garlic  peeled,  and 
laid  in  salt  for  three  days,  then  take  it  out,  wash  it,  and  let  it  lie  in 
salt  for  other  three  days,  then  take  it  out  and  let  it  lay  in  the  sun 
for  another  day  till  half  dry ;  an  ounce  of  long  pepper,  an  ounce  of 
capsicum  salted,  and  laid  in  the  sun  for  three  days,  and  a  pint  of 
black  mustard-seed  bruised,  half  an  ounce  of  turmeric  beat  very 
small.  Put  all  these  ingredients  together  in  a  jar,  then  put  in  as 
much  vinegar  as  when  the  cabbage  or  what  you  intend  to  pickle 
is  put  into  it,  the  vinegar  will  rise  to  the  top  of  the  jar.  Then  take 
cabbage,  cauliflowers,  or  whatever  you  choose  to  pickle,  and  cut 
fhem  into  small  pieces,  throw  a  good  handful  of  salt  over  them,  and 
set  them  in  the  sun  when  it  is  very  hot  for  three  days ;  drain  the 
water  from  them  every  day  and  fresh  salt  them  again,  turning  the 
leaves  till  they  are  dry,  then  put  them  into  the  pickle,  being  par- 
ticular that  they  arc  completely  covered  with  the  vinegar ;  tie  it  up 
dose,  let  it  stand  a  fortnight,  fill  it  again  with  more  vinegar, 
carefully  watch  it  from  time  to  time  to  fill  it  up  with  vinegar,  as  it 
will  waste  very  fast. 

1434. — ^MUSHBOOMS. 

Use  the  close  button  mushrooms,  rub  them  with  a  bit  of  flannel 
or  tammy  cloth,  throw  a  little  salt  over  them,  and  put  them  into 
a  stewpan  with  a  little  lemon  or  vinegar,  and  a  blade  of  mace,  and 
a  few  cloves,  and  whole  white  pepper,  keeping  them  well  shaken ; 
then  keeping  it  on  the  fire  imtil  all  the  liquor  is  absorbed  into  the 
mushrooms  again,  then  put  as  much  white  vinegar  in  your  stewpan, 

A  A 


354  PI0KLS8. 

ttifficient  to  cover  theiHy  give  it  a  wann,  then  put  them  into  botte 
or  Jan. 

1435. — MTT8HROOX8,  PICKLSB. 

Boil  them  in  milk,  then  wipe  them  dry  with  a  flannel,  boil  some 
Tinegar  with  mace,  nutmeg,  and  ginger,  and  let  it  stand  till  cold, 
then  put  it  to  the  mushrooms,  and  bottle  it ;  when  bottled  poor  in 
a  little  sweet  oil  before  tying  on  the  bladders. 


1436. — MUSHROOMS,  TO  PICKLE,  WHITS. 

Cut  off  the  stalks  of  some  small  button  mushrooms,  rub  the  skini 
off  with  a  flannel  dipped  in  salt,  and  then  throw  them  into  milk 
and  water,  drain  them  out,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  strewing 
OTcr  them  a  handful  of  salt,  cover  them  close,  and  put  them  over  a 
gentle  stove  for  five  minutes  to  draw  out  all  the  water,  then  put 
them  on  a  coarse  cloth  to  drain  till  they  are  cold. 


1437. — ^MUSHROOM  KETCHTJF. 

Put  a  quantity  of  large  natural  mushrooms  into  an  earthen  pan, 
and  break  them  up  small,  sprinkle  salt  over  them,  let  them  lie  for 
several  days,  mixing  them  up  each  day,  then  let  them  stand  about 
ft  week  and  not  stir  them  until  a  thick  scum  rises  on  the  top;  then 
strain  the  liquor  from  the  mushrooms,  boil  the  liquor  with  tome 
peppercorns,  mace,  ginger,  cloves,  and  some  mustard  seed  ti«d  In 
a  muslin  bag ;  when  cold,  bottle  it,  leave  the  spice  in,  bottle  It, 
and  cork  it  up  tight,  and  in  three  months  or  so,  boil  it  all  up  again, 
and  when  cold,  bottle  it.     It  will  now  keep  for  years. 


1438. — NASTURTIUMS,  TO  PICKLE. 

Immediately  the  blossoms  are  off,  and  the  knobs  formed,  gather 
them,  and  lay  them  in  cold  salt  and  water,  chan^ng  the  sait  and 
water  three  days  successively ;  make  a  cold  pickle  of  white  wine 
vinegar,  a  little  sherry  wine,  shalot,  pepper,  cloves,  mace,  nutmegs 
out  in  quarters,  and  horseradish  cut  small ;  into  this  pickle  put  the 
nasturtiums.    In  three  months  they  will  be  ready  for  eating. 


1439. — heat's  TONGUE,  PIOKLED. 

Take  neats'  tongues  that  look  red  out  of  the  pickle,  cut  off  the 
roots,  and  let  the  tongues  boil  till  the  skin  comes  off  easily;  season 
them,  salt,  pepper,  and  cloves,  and  nutmeg,  rubbing  it  well  into 
them  while  hot,  then  put  them  into  a  pan,  cover  them  with  melted 
butter,  bake  them,  when  they  are  done  pour  off  the  butter,  keeping 
back  the  gravy,  put  them  into  a  fresh  pan,  and  cover  with  butter 
an  inch  thick. 


1440.— ONIOKS,  TO  FIOKLB. 

Peel  the  onioniS  till  they  look  white,  boil  some  strong  Mdt  and 


PI0KL£8.  355 


and  pour  it  over  them,  let  them  stand  in  this  twenty-four 
keep  the  vessel  closely  covered  to  retain  the  steam,  after  that 
ipe  the  onions  quite  dry,  and  when  they  are  cold,  pour  boil- 
legar,  with  ginger,  and  white  pepper  over  them ;  take  care 
legar  always  covers  the  onions. 

1441. — ONIONS,   FICKLSD. 

the  small  button  onions,  which  are  ready  about  September ; 
them  and  peel  them,  fill  a  tin  stewpan,  and  cover  them  with 
and  in  a  few  minutes  scald  them,  take  them  out  and  lay 

in  a  cloth  and  cover  them,  let  them  get  cold,  put  them  in 

I  or  bottles ;  boil  some  very  good  white  vinegar,  let  it  stand 
fire  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  it  upon  the  onions,  and  when 

cold  cover  them,  then,  should  the  outer  skin  shrivel,  take  it 

ihey  should  appear  quite  clear. 


1442. — PLUMS,  TO  PICKLE  LIKE  OLIVES. 

e  the  plums  before  they  are  quite  ripe,  and  put  them  into  a 
lan  with  some  white  wine  vinegar,  salt  water,  fennel  seed, 
ill,  as  much  of  each  as  will  impart  a  flavour  to  the  pickle ; 
it  boils  put  in  the  plums,  let  it  boil  again,  then  take  it  off, 
tand  tiU  cold,  then  put  them  into  jars. 


1443. — QUINCE,  TO  PICKLE. 

B  and  cut  half  a  dozen  quinces  into  small  pieces,  and  put 
irith  a  gallon  of  water  and  two  pounds  of  honey  into  a  large 
tan^  mix  them  together  well,  and  set  them  on  a  slow  fire  for 
1  hour,  strain  tha  liquor  into  a  jar,  when  quite  cold  wipe  the 
«  perfectly  dry,  and  put  them  into  it,  cover  them  very  close. 

1444. — SAMPHIBE,  TO  PICKLE. 

some  samphire  that  is  green  in  a  pan,  sprinkle  over  it  some 
id  cover  it  with  spring  water,  and  let  it  lie  for  twenty-four 
;  then  put  it  into  a  large  brass  saucepan,  throw  in  a  handful 
t^  cover  the  pan  close,  and  set  it  over  a  very  slow  fire ;  let  it 
till  it  is  quite  green  and  crisp,  then  take  it  off>  for  if  it 
es  soft,  it  is  spoiled,  put  it  into  a  jar,  cover  it  close,  and  when 
>ld  tie  it  down. 


1445.— TOMATO  KETCHUP. 

e  tomatoes  when  full  ripe,  hake  them  in  a  jar  till  tender, 
them,  and  rub  them  through  a  sieve.  To  every  pound  of 
add  a  pint  of  Chili  vinegar,  an  ounce  of  shalots,  half  an  ounce 
lie,  both  sliced,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  salt,  and  a  quarter  of 
ince  of  white  pepper  finely  powdered;  boil  the  whole  till 
ingredient  is  soft,  rub  it  again  through  the  sieve ;  to  evety 
i  add  the  juice  of  three  lemons ;  boil  it  again  to  the  coAsiBt- 

A  A  2 


1i56  PICKLES. 


ence  of  cream ;  when  cold  bottle  it,  put  a  small  quantity  of  sweet 
oil  on  each,  tie  bladders  over,  and  keep  it  in  a  dry  place. 


1446. — TONGUE,  TO  FICKLE. 

Take  a  fine  neat*s  tongue  and  put  it  into  the  following  pickle,— 
four  gallons  of  water,  four  pounds  of  common  salt,  the  same  of  bay 
salt,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  saltpetre,  two  ounces  of  salt-prunella, 
one  ounce  of  alum,  and  a  pound  of  coarse  sugar ;  boil  them  toge- 
ther,  skimming  it  well,  lay  in  the  tongue,  let  it  remain  ten  days, 
turning  it  two  or  three  times  in  that  period.  Dry  the  tongue  by  a 
wood  fire. 


1447. — TONGUES,  PICKLE  FOR. 

Half  a  pound  of  saltpetre,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bay  salt,  the 
same  of  moist  sugar,  three  poimds  of  common  salt,  and  two  gallons 
of  soft  water,  boil  the  whole  together,  and  skim  it  well ;  when  cold 
pour  it  over  the  tongue ;  this  pickle  will  not  want  boiling  again  for 
six  weeks. 


1448. — ^WALNUT  KETCHUP.  '  '  '  * ' 

Boil  gently  a  gallon  of  the  expressed  juice  of  young  green  wal- 
nuts, skim  it  weU,  then  put  into  it  a  pound  of  anchovies,  bones,  and 
liquor,  one  ounce  of  cloves,  two  or  three  dozen  of  shalots,  one  ounce 
of  mace,  one  ounce  of  pepper,  one  ounce  of  garlic,  let  it  all  boil  until 
the  shalots  sink ;  then  place  the  liquor  into  a  pan  until  cold,  then 
bottle  it,  dividing  the  spice  equally  in  each  bottle ;  cork  it  close, 
and  bladder  over  the  corks.  This  is  not  fit  for  use  in  less  than  a 
twelvemonth. 


1449. — WALNUTS,  PICKLED. 

When  they  will  bear  a  pin  to  go  into  them,  prick  them  all  over; 
put  a  brine  of  salt  and  water  on  to  boil,  strong  enough  for  an  egg 
to  swim  on  the  top  when  quite  cold ;  when  it  is  boiling  skim  i^ 
pour  it  over  the  walnuts,  let  them  lie  a  week,  then  change  the 
brine,  let  them  stand  several  more  days,  then  strain  them  off,  have 
ready  boiled  some  strong  white  vinegar,  with  spice  boiled  in  it,  and 
plenty  of  pepper  and  mustard  seeds,  and  horseradish,  all  well 
boiled  together ;  put  to  get  cold,  a  few  shalots  and  plenty  of  mus- 
tard seeds,  then  put  them  into  jars  or  bottles.  They  will  be  several 
months  before  fit  to  use ;  keep  them  covered. 


1450. — WALNUTS  PICKLED. 

Put  a  hundred  of  large  double  walnuts  into  a  stone  jar,  take  {o\%^ 
ounces  of  black  pepper,  one  ounce  of  Jamaica  pepper,  two  ounc^^ 
of  ginger,  one  ounce  of  cloves,  a  pint  of  mustard  seed,  and  boi^ 
them  in  as  much  vinegar  as  is  sufficient  to  cover  the  walnuts ;  whe^ 
cold  pour  it  over  the  walnuts,  in  two  days  boil  the  pickle 


PICKLES.  367 


pour  it  to  the  walnuts  immediately,  cover  them  close,  and  repeat 
this  for  three  days. 

1451. — WALNUT  PICKLE. 

Lay  your  walnuts  in  water,  and  change  it  every  day  for  the 
space  of  three  weeks  to  extract  all  the  bitterness  from  them ;  make 
a  pickle  with  spice,  salt,  and  vinegar,  let  it  boil  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  and  pour  over  the  walnuts. 


1452. — TO   MAKE    CHILI,  TARIIAGON,  CAPSICUM,  GARLIC,  ESCHALOT,  OR 

ANY   OTHER  VIJJEGAR. 

To  two  quarts  of  vinegar  add  three  ounces  of  chilis,  or  tarragon, 
or  any  other  of  the  above-named  condiments,  bottle  and  cork  down 
closely;  let  it  remain  four  weeks,  strain,  and  refill  the  bottle  with  the 
clear  vinegar,  cork  down,  it  is  now  ready  for  use,  the  chilis,  &c.,  may 
be  used  a  second  time. 


358  CAKES,   BUKS9   BISCUITS,   BREAD,  ETC. 


CHAPTER  XXL 

CAXE81  BVHS,  BICUITS,  BEEADi  ETC. 

REQUISITE  INFORMATION  FOR  MAKING  AND  BAKING  CAVHi. 

Currants  are  so  frequently  used  in  cakes  that  you  should  he  nsf 
particular  in  having  them  nicely  washed,  dried,  and  all  sticks  ans 
stones  taken  from  them,  and  then  put  hefore  the  fire  to  dry,  as,  if 
damp,  they  will  make  cakes  and  puddings  heavy ;  therefore,  heto 
you  use  them  dust  a  little  flour  lightly  over  them. 

Eggs  should  be  always  a  long  time  beaten,  the  whites  and  yolks 
separate,  taking  out  the  tread. 

Sugar  should  be  well  pounded  and  sifted  through  a  drum  or  lawn 
sieve,  and  kept  well  dried. 

Lemon  peel  should  be  either  rubbed  on  sugar  or  grated  fine,  if  80, 
sprinkle  some  sifted  su^i^ar  amongst  it  to  keep  it  a  good  colour. 

The  lightness  of  all  cakes  depends  upon  the  whipping  of  them,  and 
at  last  being  well  incorporated. 

If  you  use  yeast  to  your  cakes  they  will  require  less  butter  and 
eggs,  and  will  eat  almost  equally  as  light  and  rich;  but  if  the  learea 
be  only  of  milk,  flour,  and  water,  it  becomes  more  tough  than  if  the 
butter  was  at  first  put  with  the  ingredients,  and  the  dough  set  to  rise 
by  the  fire. 

The  heat  of  your  oven  is  of  particular  importance  for  baking  cakes 
or  pastry — more  particularly  largje  cakes — as  at  first,  if  not  pretty 
brisk,  they  will  not  rise ;  then,  if  likely  to  brown  too  quick  at  the 
top,  put  a  piece  of  paper  upon  the  top  of  the  cake  so  not  to  touch 
the  batter.  It  should  be  lighted  some  time  before  hand,  so  as  to  have 
a  good  solid  body  of  heat.  To  know  when  your  cake  is  done  you 
win  see  in  another  place  in  the  book.  If  the  oven  is  not  hot  enough^ 
add  more  fire  into  it. 

Bread  and  tea-cakes  made  with  milk  eat  best  when  new,  as  they 
become  stale  sooner  than  others. 

Never  keep  your  bread  or  cakes  in  wooden  boxes  or  drawers,  but 
in  tin  boxes  or  earthen  pans,  with  covers. 

1453.— CRUST,  SHORT  AND  RICH,  BUT  NOT  SWEET.' 

To  eight  ounces  of  fine  flour  rub  in  well  six  ounces  of  butter, 
make  it  into  a  stiffish  paste  with  a  little  water;  beat  it  well,  roll  it 
thin,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CAKES,  BUNS,   BISOUITS^  BB£AD,  BTO.  369 


1454.— ^RU8T,  SHOBT. 

Take  two  ounoes  of  white  sugar,  pound,  sift,  and  diy  it,  mix  it 
with  a  pound  of  well-dried  flour,  rubbing  well  into  it  three  ounoes  of 
butter ;  put  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  into  some  cream,  and  then  mix 
the  whole  into  a  smooth  paste,  roll  it  out  thin,  and  bake  it  in  a 
moderate  oren. 


1455.^ — AL9I0ND,   SMALL,   CAKES. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds,  beat  them  to  a  paste 
with  white  of  eggs,  add  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 
one  of  orange  flowers  pralin6e,  and  two  ounces  of  cream ;  take  some 
Terj  thin  puff  paste,  cut  into  small  squares,  and  put  a  portion  of  the 
above  mixture  on  each;  moisten  the  edges,  cover  them  with  puff 
paste,  dorez,  prick  and  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven;  when^done  ice  them 
with  sugar. 

1456. BANBURY  CAKES. 

Press  in  a  little  dough  (with  a  pound  of  flour)  two  table-spoonfuk 
of  thick  jeast,  and  a  gill  of  warm  milk;  let  it  work  a  little,  tnen  add 
half  a  pound  of  currants  washed  and  picked,  half  a  pound  of  candied 
orange  and  lemon  peel  cut  small,  ana  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  each  of 
nutmeg,  ginger,  and  allspice ;  mix  the  whole  together  with  half  a 
pound  of  honey,  and  put  into  puff  paste  cut  in  an  oval  shape ;  cover 
and  sift  sugar  over.     Bake  them  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven* 


1457. — ^ALMOND   ICING,   FOB  CAKES. 

Take  equal  parts  of  blanched  sweet  almonds  and  loaf  sugar,  pouud 
them  fine  in  a  mortar,  pass  the  whole  through  a  moderately  coarse 
wire  sieve ;  then  mix  the  whole  into  a  paste  of  moderate  consistence 
with  the  yolks  of  eggs,  and  spread  over  the  top  of  the  cake  after  it 
it  baked;  dry  the  almond  icing  before  the  fire  or  in  a  very  cool  oven, 
and  when  it  is  cold  ice  the  cake  with  the  sugar  icing. 


1458. BAB  A. 

Take  three  pounds  of  flour,  one  quarter  of  which  set  apart  and 
mix  into  dough  with  a  gill  of  good  yeast  and  a  little  warm  water ; 
cover  it  close  in  a  stewpan  and  set  it  by  the  fire  to  rise,  when  you 
see  the  dough  rise  and  nearly  ready,  form  the  other  parts  of  the 
flour  in  a  circle  on  the  table,  in  which  put  half  an  ounce  of  salt, 
one  oimce  of  sugar,  a  half  pound  of  butter  and  twelve  eggs  and  a 
table-spoon  of  safiron ;  mix  the  butter  and  eggs  well  together 
before  you  put  it  to  the  flour;  when  it  is  all  mixed  spread  it  out 
and  put  the  dough  to  it  and  knead  it  well.  When  the  yeast  is  nearly 
mixed  in  add  two  pounds  of  raisins  stoned,  a  few  at  a  time,  have 
ready  two  copper  moulds  buttered,  and  put  three  parts  full  of  dough 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  very  gently,  when  raised  to  the  top 
of  the  mould  bake  in  a  hot  oven;  a  brick  oven  is  best 


360  CAKES)  BUNS,  BISCTITS,  BREAD,  ETC. 


1459.— BiJBA — ^AKOTHEB  RECBTPT. 

Take  the  fourth  part  of  two  pounds  of  flour,  lay  it  on  a  paste- 
board or  slab  and  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  and  put  in  the  yeasty 
work  it  up  with  one  hand,  while  with  the  other  you  pour  in  warm 
water;  make  it  into  a  soft  paste  and  put  it  into  a  wooden  bowl,  flni 
prick  it  in  a  few  places  and  cover  it  and  let  it  stand.  When  it  has 
risen  well  take  the  remainder  of  the  flour  and  spread  it  on  the  first 
made  paste;  mix  them  well  together,  adding  to  them  half  an  ounce 
of  salt,  six  eggs,  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  half  a  pound  of  stoned 
raisins,  two  ounces  of  currants,  half  a  glass  of  Malaga  wine,  a 
little  saffron  in  powder.  Work  them  up  together  weU,  roll  it  out 
three  or  four  times  and  let  it  stand  for  six  hours,  then  butter  a 
mould,  pour  in  your  mixture  and  bake  it 


1460. ^BRIDE  CAKE. 

To  four  pounds  of  the  best  wheaten  flour  add  four  pounds  of  the 
best  fresh  butter,  two  pounds  of  the  best  white  sugar,  pounded  and 
sifited  fine,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  and  the  same  quantity  of 
nutmegs;  to  every  pound  of  flour  put  eight  eggs;  wash  and  thoroughly 
pick  four  pounds  of  currants,  dry  them  well,  blanch  a  poond  of  sweet 
almonds  and  cut  them  length wajrs  very  thin,  a  pound  of  citron,  a 
pound  of  candied  orange,  uie  same  quantity  of  candied  lemon,  uA 
half  a  pint  of  brandy.  Having  thus  prepared  your  ingredients  work 
the  butter  to  a  cream  with  your  hands,  beat  in  the  sugar  for  ten 
minutes,  then  beat  your  whites  of  eggs  to  a  very  strong  froth;  mix 
them  with  your  sugar  and  butter,  oeat  the  yolks  well  for  about 
twenty  minutes,  not  a  minute  less,  and  mix  them  with  your  cake. 
Now  put  in  your  flour,  mace,  and  nutmeg,  keep  beating  it  until  your 
oven  is  quite  ready  to  receive  it,  pour  in  your  brandy,  whip  the 
currants  and  almonds  lightly  in,  tie  round  the  bottom  of  your  hoop 
throe  sheets  of  paper,  to  keep  it  from  running  out,  rub  it  well  with 
butter,  put  in  your  cake  and  the  sweetmeats  in  three  layers,  with 
cake  between  every  layer;  after  it  is  risen  and  coloured  cover  it  with 
paper,  before  your  oven  is  closed ;  it  will  take  three  hours  baking. 


1461. BRIDE  CAKE ANOTHER   WAY. 

One  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  su^ar,  three  pounds  and  a  half  of 
currants,  one  pound  of  butter,  two  pounds  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of 
peels,  half  a  pound  of  cut  almonds,  three  ounces  of  spices,  the  grating 
of  three  lemons,  eighteen  eggs,  two  gills  of  rum ;  paper  your  hoop 
which  for  this  mixture  you  will  require  to  be  laree;  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven,  it  will  take  some  hours,  when  cold  ice  it.  See  "  Icing 
for  Cakes.** 


1462.-»BREAKFAflrr  OR  TEA  CAKES,  HOT. 

Put  about  six  handfuls  of  flower  in  a  basin,  about  half-a-pint  of 
new  milk,  a  small  piece  of  butter;  warm  the  milk,  and  mind  hotter 
in  winter  than  in  summer;  mix  in  a  cup  two  ounces  of  Gennan 
yeast  with  a  little  cold  water,  mix  the  yeast  with  the  milk  and 


CAKES^  BX7K8,  BISCUITS,  BBBAD,  STC.  361 

batter,  make  a  hole  in  the  flour,  pour  the  mixed  milk  and  yeast  into 
it,  ttixrin^  it  round  until  it  is  a  thick  hatter;  heat  up  one  egg  and 
mix  into  it,  coTer  it  over  and  keep  it  warm  in  your  screen;  when  it 
lias  risen  a  little  mix  it  into  a  dough,  knead  it  well,  put  it  again  in 
the  screen,  and  when  it  has  risen  a  good  deal,  take  and  form  your 
rolls.  They  will  take  nearly  half  an  hour  or  according  to  the  size 
yoa  make  the  cakes,  ruh  them  over  while  hot  with  your  paste  hrusli 
dipped  in  milk. 


1463. BORDEAUX    CAKE. 

Pound  cake,  with  alternate  layers  of  preserves,  with  jam  on  the 
top. 


1464. — DIET  BREAD  CAKE. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
flour,  and  eight  eggs;  put  your  sugar  and  eggs  together  into  a  hasin 
or  pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  lukewarm  water ;  beat  them  all  well  up 
with  a  whisk  the  same  as  for  sponge  cakes,  over  a  slow  fire  until  quite 
warm,  take  them  from  the  fire  and  whip  them  until  cold,  add  the 
grating  of  one  lemon,  then  mix  in  the  flour  lightly,  adding  some 
carrawajr  seeds  if  they  are  liked;  do  not  fill  your  moulds,  they 
should  be  square  paper  cases  buttered. 


-"  146i>. BUTTER  CAKES. 

Form  with  your  hands  a  dish  of  butter  into  a  cream,  add  two 
pounds  of  siAed  sugar,  three  pounds  of  dried  flour,  and  two  dozen 
eggi,  leaving  out  half  the  whites,  then  beat  altogether  for  an  hour. 
Preyious  to  baking  it,  you  may  add  some  seeds  and  currants,  an 
ounce  of  mace,  a  nutmeg,  and  a  little  brandy. 


1466. — ^BISCUITS   OP   ANY  KIND  OP   FRUIT. 

To  the  pulp  of  any  scalded  fruit  put  the  same  weight  of  sugar, 
beat  them  both  well  together  for  two  hours,  then  make  them  into  forms, 
or  put  them  in  paper  cases,  and  dry  them  in  a  cool  oven,  turn  them 
the  next  day,  and  let  them  remain  until  quite  dry,  then  put  them  in 
boxes. 

1467. —  BISCUITS,    DEVILLED. 

Dip  one  into  boiling  water,  butter  it  well,  spread  it  over  with  ready 
made  mustard,  cayenne  pepper,  a  good  deal  of  black  pepper,  and 
■alt;  rub  them  well  into  the  biscuit,  put  it  in  the  oven,  or  on  the 
gridiron  to  brown. 


362  OAKBS,  BUVB,  BiaCUITC,  BBBAD,  BTC. 


1468.— FOWLS  AND  yuuT, 

May  be  done  in  the  same  way,  only  seore  the  leg  of  a  fowl  or 
turkey,  and  in  the  nicks  put  cayenne  pepper  and  mostard,  and  some 
salt  and  black  pepper. 

1469. — BISCUITS,  ORANGE. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  or 
powdered  sugar,  six  fresn  eggs,  and  the  rind  of  an  orange  grated,  beat 
them  in  a  mortar  to  paste,  and  bake  in  cases  like  other  biscuits; 

1470.— BISCUITS,  SAVOY. 

The  mixture  is  the  same,  with  an  addition  of  a  spoonful  or  two 
more  of  flour  to  be  added,  this  is  squeezed  through  a  bag  and  pipe  in 
rows,  on  sugared  paper,  very  quickly  done,  and  then  sugar  the  tops, 
bake  in  a  quick  oren ;  when  done  wet  your  dresser  and  draw  die 
paper  from  the  baking  sheet  on  to  the  wet  dresser;  let  it  lie  antU  the 
cakes  will  be  easily  removed,  sticking  one  on  the  other. 

1471. — CHEESECAKES. 

Cut  your  paste  and  fill  the  pans  as  in  receipt  1077)  have  ready 
prepared  this  mixture,  break  three  yolks  of  eggs  and  one  white  into  a 
basin,  a  little  powdered  sugar,  a  grating  of  a  lemon,  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  a  few  bread  crumbs  or  crumbed  stale  pound  cake,  an  oonoa 
of  clarified  butter,  mix  all  well  together;  add  half  a  gill  of  cream,  pot 
a  spoonful  in  each  tartlet  pan;  you  must  press  the  paste  the  fonn  of 
the  pan. 

1 472.— CHEESECAKES. 

Take  the  curd  of  three  quarts  of  milk,  a  pound  of  currants,  twelve 
ounces  of  Lisbon  sugar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  the  same 
quantity  of  nutmeg,  and  the  peel  of  a  lemon  chopped  to  a  paste,  the 
yolks  of  eight  and  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  a  pint  of  scalded  cream  and 
a  pint  of  brandy;  mix  them  all  together,  put  a  light  thui  puff  pasts 
into  your  patty  pans  and  half  fill  them. 

1473. — CHEESECAKES, COMMON. 

Put  a  quart  of  milk  on  the  fire,  when  it  boils  add  eight  eggs  weD 
beaten;  stir  them  till  they  become  a  curd,  then  pour  it  out,  and  when 
it  is  cold  put  in  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  currants  well  washed. 
two  spoonfuls  of  rose  water  and  a  little  salt ;  make  a  puff  paste  ana 
put  in  the  mixture.  If  you  bake  them  in  the  patties  it  will  be 
necessary  to  butter  the  patties  to  enable  you  to  turn  them  out ;  but  if 
you  bake  in  glass  or  china,  only  an  upper  crust  will  be  necessaxj,  as 
you  can  send  them  to  table  without  tsiking  them  out. 

1474. — CHEESECAKES  DE  ST.  DBNU. 

With  a  fresh  cream  cheese  (curds)  mix  a  spoonful  of  flour,  a  littU 
salt,  four  eggs,  bake  it  in  good  puff  paste  coloured  with  the  yolk  af 
eggs ;  it  may  be  served  either  hot  or  cold. 


CAKES,  BUKS,  BISCUITS,  BBBAD,  BTC.  363 


1475.-— CHBESEClfBS  A  LA  DUC  DE  GUISE. 

Make  a  paste  of  a  quart  of  the  best  flour,  rub  into  it  a  pound  of 
butter,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  from  which  all  lumps  haye  been 
removed,  add  two  teanspoonfiils  of  orange  flower  water;  work  this 
intr>  a  fine  even  paste,  lay  it  in  patty  pans.  For  the  curd  take  the 
yolk  of  twelve  eggs,  beat  in  a  pint  of  rcnr  thick  cream,  when  the 
cream  boils  up  put  in  the  eggs,  take  it  o£^  put  it  in  a  cloth  over  a 
cullender;  whey  some  new  milk  with  rennet  for  the  other  curd; 
when  you  temper  them  together  take  a  pound  of  currants,  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  grated  nutmeg,  four  spoonfuls  of  rose  water,  and  then  bake 
quickly. 

1476. — CHEESECAKES,  APPLE. 

Take  twelve  apples,  pare,  core,  and  boil  in  sufficient  water  to  wash 
them;  beat  them  very  smooth,  add  six  yolks  of  eggs,  the  juice  of 
two  lemons,  some  grated  lemon  peel,  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter 
beaten  to  a  cream,  and  sweetened  with  powdered  sugar;  beat  in  with 
the  apples,  bake  in  a  pu£f  crust,  and  serve  open. 


1477. CHEESECAKES,    ALMOND. 

Take  four  ounces  of  blanched  almonds,  mixed  with  a  few  bitter, 
beat  them  with  a  spoonful  of  water,  add  four  ounces  of  powdered 
sugar,  a  spoonful  of  cream,  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten; 
mix  them  quickly,  put  into  small  patty  pans  and  bake  for  twenty 
minutes  in  a  moderately  warm  oven. 


1478. CHEESECAKES,    BREAD. 

Take  a  French  roll,  slice  it  very  thin,  pour  over  it  some  boiling 
cream,  allow  it  to  cool  and  then  add  six  or  ein;ht  eggs,  half  a  pound 
of  butter  melted,  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  half  a  pound  of  currants, 
•ome  nutmeg,  and  a  little  sugar ;  put  them  in  pufi'-paste,  the  same 
at  other  cheesecakes. 


1479.^<;heesecakes,  citron. 

Take  a  pint  of  cream,  boil  it,  and  when  cold  mix  it  with  two  eggs 
well  beaten  ;  then  boil  them  together,  until  they  become  a  curd.  Put 
in  a  few  blanched  almonds  beaten  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  orange 
flower  water,  add  some  Naples  biscuits  and  green  citron  chopped 
Teiy  small.     Sweeten,  and  bake  in  tins. 


1480.— cheesecakes,  lemon. 

Take  four  ounces  of  sifted  lump  sugar,  and  the  same  qtiantity  of 
batter;  melt  them  slowly,  add  the  yolks  of  two  and  the  white  of  one 
egg,  a  Savoy  biscuit,  some  blanched  almonds,  the  rind  of  three 
lemons  shred  fine,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  a  hal^  and  three 
spoonfuls  of  brandy;  mix  all  well  together,  then  make  a  paste  with 


364  CAKES,  BUNS,  BISCUITS,  BBEAD,  BXa 

eight  ounces  of  flour,  and  six  ounces  of  butter,  mixing  four  ounces 
of  it  with  the  flour  first,  then  wet  it  with  six  spoonfuls  of  water, 
and  roll  in  the  remainder  of  the  butter ;  put  tlie  mgredients  to  this 
paste  and  bake  it. 

1481.^-CHEESECAKES,   ORANGE. 

Take  eight  ounces  of  blanched  almonds,  beat  them  veTY  fine  with 
orange-flower  water,  melt  a  pound  of  butter  carefully  without  oilinr 
(let  it  be  nearly  cold  before  using  it  for  the  cheesecakes) ;  beat  an^ 
sift  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  beat  the  yolks  of  ten  and  the  whites  o: 
four  eggs,  pound  one  fresh  and  two  candied  oranges  (previously  boilecL- 
to  draw  out  the  bitterness)  in  a  mortar  till  as  soft  as  marmalade 
without  any  lumps ;  these  mix  altogether,  and  put  into  patty  pans. 


1482.^-CBSRRT  CAKES. 

Take  a  pound  of  tart  paste,  cut  it  in  half,  roll  it  out  thin,  drop  00. 
the  paste  preserved  cherries  cut  into  small  pieces,  egg  them  round 
carefully,  turn  the  paste  over  them  and  press  them  together  gently, 
then  cut  it  into  half  circles  with  a  gigging  iron,  prick  and  wash  them 
over  with  egg,  place  them  on  a  well-buttered  tin,  and  bake  them  in  a 
quick  oven. 

1483.^-CINNAMON    CAKES. 

Beat  up  six  eggs  with  three  table-spoonfuls  of  rose-water ;  put  to  it 
a  pound  of  siflbed  sugar,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon, 
and  enough  flour  to  form  it  into  a  paste ;  roll  it  out  thin,  and  cut  it 
into  any  shape  you  please,  place  them  on  paper,  and  bake  them. 
Remove  them  from  the  paper  when  done.     Keep  them  dry. 


1484. — CURRANT   CAKES. 

Take  two  quarts  of  currants,  red  or  white,  pick  and  wash  them, 
boil  them  in  a  pint  of  water :  then  run  the  juice  through  a  jelly-bag, 
taking  care  not  to  press  the  bag ;  boil  up  the  juice,  strewing  in  three 
pounds  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  juice ;  pour  it  into  glasses,  dry  it  in  a 
stone  till  it  will  turn  out,  then  dry  the  cakes  on  plates. 


1485.— CARRAWAY  CAKES. 

Mix  a  pound  of  flour  with  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  add  a  spoonful 
of  yeast,  four  spoonfuls  of  rose  water,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  four 
ounces  of  sugar,  some  carraways  and  ambergris,  make  all  into  a  paste, 
bake  it  and  when  done  sprinkle  it  with  powdered  sugar. 


1486. — CURD  CAKES. 

Mix  eight  eggs  (leaving  out  four  whites)  with  a  quart  of  curds, 
add  sugar  sufficient  to  sweeten,  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  table-spoonful  of 
flour,  mix  well  together;  heat  in  a  frying-pan  some  butter,  and  drop 
in  the  curd,  frying  like  fritters. 


CAKES^  BUK8,  BISCUITS,  BBEAD,  ETC.  365 

1487*^-CAKE,   BREAKFAST. 

To  half  a  peck  of  floor  rub  in  a  pound  and  a  half  of  butter;  add 
three  pounds  of  currants,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  nutmeg,  mace  and  cinnamon  together,  a  little  salt,  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  'warmed  cream  or  milk,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  brandy, 
a  pint  of  good  ale  yeast,  and  five  eggs  ;  mix  all  these  well 
together,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  cake  will  keep  good 
for  three  months. 


1488. — FAMILY  CAKE. 

To  six  ounces  of  rice  and  the  same  quantity  of  wheat  flour  add 
half  a  pound  of  lump  sugar  pounds  and  sifted,  nine  eggs,  and  half 
an  ounce  of  carraway  aee& ;  beat  this  up  for  an  hour  and  bake  it  for 
the  same  time  in  a  quick  oven.  This  cake  is  very  suitable  for  young 
people  and  weak  stomachs. 


1489.— GENOISES 

Is  the  same  process  as  the  Savoy  cake;  add  to  it,  very  gently  and  well 
stirred  in,  a  gill  of  thick  cream.  As  this  is  for  cutting,  and  to  be 
iced  and  ornamented,  you  need  not  sugar  the  top,  put  it  into  long 
inch  deep  moulds  well  buttered,  and  bake  directly,  turn  it  over,  and 
it  will  fall  out  when  baked  enough,  a  nice  light  brown. 


1490. — GOOSEBEnRY  CAKES. 

Press  the  juice  out  of  some  gooseberries,  and  strain  it  through  a 
muslin,  boil  it  up;  strew  in  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice; 
stir  it  well,  and  sinmier  it  till  the  sugar  is  melted ;  pour  it  into 
glasses,  dry  it  in  a  stove  till  it  will  turn  out,  and  then  dry  the  cakes 
on  plates. 

1491. — LEMON   CAKE. 

To  the  whites  of  ten  eggs  add  three  spoonfuls  of  rose  or  orange 
flower  water,  whisk  them  for  an  hour,  then  put  in  a  pound  of  sifted 
sugar,  and  grate  in  the  rind  of  a  lemon ;  mix  them  well,  and  add 
the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  beaten  smooth,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon; 
then  stir  in  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour,  put  the  mixture  in 
a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  an  hour. 


1 492. — ^MACAROONS. 

Blanch  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  dry  them  well,  then  pound 
them  fine  in  the  mortar;  add  three  whites  of  eggs,  then  one  pound  of 
sugar  sifted  through  a  drum  or  lawn  sieve ;  mix  it  well  together  for 
ten  minutes,  take  it  all  out  from  the  mortar,  have  ready  your  baking 
boards  or  sheets,  covered  with  wafer  paper.  For  Italian  macaroons 
you  will  form  them  round  with  slices  of  almonds  upon  the  top  of 
each;  if  for  English,  oval,  and  sift  sugar  upon  the  top  of  them,  bake 
them  in  a  moderate  oven* 


366  CAKS8,   BUNS,   BUOUITS,  BBXAD^  BTO. 


1493.--*1IACAII001«8. 

To  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  blanched  and  nicely  potmded  with 
a  little  rose  water  to  prevent  their  oiling,  add  a  pound  of  sifttd 
sugar,  the  whites  of  ten  eggs  whisked  to  a  solid  froth;  beat  sQ 
together  for  some  time,  place  some  wafer  paper  on  tin  platea,  drap 
the  mixture  on  it  in  drops  the  size  of  a  shilling  or  smaller,  sprinkle 
oyer  them  a  little  sugar,  and  hake  them. 

1494. — ^MACAROONB,  SPICED. 

*  Take  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  and  two  pounds  of  sifted  sugar; 
prepare  the  paste  in  the  usual  waj,  add  a  spoonful  of  powdered 
cinnamon,  six  pounded  doves,  a  spoonful  of  presenred  lemon,  and 
the  same  of  orange  peel  chopped  small,  and  the  rind  of  two  lemons 
grated;  mix  all  together  in  a  mortar,  lay  out  the  macaroons  as 
before  directed,  and  bake  them  carefully. 

1495. — POUITD  OA.KE. 

Take  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar,  and  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  nil 
them  with  the  hand  ten  minutes  and  put  to  them  nine  yolks  and  fife 
whites  of  eggs  well  beaten;  work  all  together  and  add  a  pound  of 
sifted  flour,  some  carraway  seeds,  four  ounces  of  candied  orange  ped 
cut  into  slices,  a  few  currants  well  cleaned;  mix  all  together  Terj 
lightly. 

1496. — ^POtTND  CAKES,  PLUM  OB   PLAIN. 

Equal  quantity  of  sugar,  butter,  flour,  and  eggs,  allowing  to  all 
cakes  eight  to  a  pound,  a  grating  of  lemon,  and  a  few  grains  of  grated 
nutmeg ;  have  a  basin  made  pretty  warm,  put  in  your  butter,  and 
with  your  hand  whip  up  the  butter  until  it  comes  to  the  thickness 
of  cream,  then  put  in  your  sugar,  and  lemon,  and  nutmeg,  keep 
whipping  it;  hare  your  eggs  beat  up,  then  add  them  by  degrees  to 
your  sugar  and  butter,  take  care  it  does  not  curdle,  then  whip  in 
your  flour;  from  this  mixture  you  can  make  several  sorts  of  small 
cakes,  with  a  little  variation  in  each  mixture.  For  queen  cakes  some 
currants,  and  a  spoonful  more  flour ;  for  champaisnes  a  few  carraway 
seeds,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  flour ;  for  queen*s  drops  the  same,  but 
add  currants,  haye  different  basins  for  each  mixture ;  in  the  same 
way  you  may  add  whatever  flavour  you  like,  and  make  them  what 
shape  you  like ;  champaignes  are  like  a  quarter  of  an  orange,  made 
in  a  long  frame;  queen  cakes  in  moulds,  buttered;  drops,  on  buttered 
paper,  a  moderate  oven  will  bake  them ;  pound  cakes  in  hoops,  pre-  ^ 
pared. 

1497.— *A  GOOD  PLUM  CAKE. 

An  equal  weight  of  butter  and  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cut 
peels  and  citron,  double  the  weight  of  butter  in  currants,  the  grating 
of  three  lemons,  and  half  a  nutmeg,  half  an  ounce  of  pudding  spice 
two  glasses  of  mm,  and  ihe  same  quantity  of  eggs  as  the  weight  in 


CAKBSi  BUKSi  BIBOUITS,  BBSAB,  ETC.  367 


batter;  beat  3roiir  butter  as  for  a  pound  cake,  put  a  few  chopped 
irweet  ahnondj.  Paper  and  batter  a  hoop,  bottom  and  sides,  then  put 
in  your  mixture ;  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  some  time,  try  it  if  done  as 
you  did  the  Saroy  cake,  take  off  the  hoop  when  done,  but  not  the 
paper. 

1498.— QUINCE  CAKES. 

Take  six  quinces,  pare,  core,  and  boil  them  till  quite  soft,  then  rub 
ihe  pulp  through  a  siere  and  strain  it.  To  this  add  half  a  pint  of 
iJTup  ot  ouinces,  the  same  of  syrup  of  barberries,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  nne  sugar;  boil  the  whole  to  cass^,  and  pour  it  into  shallow 
moulds ;  let  them  stand  a  short  time,  and  then  dry  them  in  a  store* 

1499.^-BASPBEIUIY  CAKES. 

Take  some  raspberries  not  quite  ripe,  pick,  and  place  them  in  a 
Store  to  dnr,  then  beat  them  m  a  mortar.  Take  a  pound  and  a 
quarter  of  nne  sugar,  clarify,  and  boil  it  to  a  syrup,  then  put  hnlf  a 
pound  of  the  dried  raspberries  into  the  nymp  with  half  a  spoonful  of 
white  of  egg  beaten  in  cream,  stir  it  carefully,  just  boil  it,  and  pour 
it  into  moulds  or  paper  cases. 


1500.»-ROUT  CAKES. 

Take  the  same  quantity  of  ground  almonds  as  fine,  sifted  sugar, 
a  few  grains  of  nutmeg,  a  little  grated  lemon  peel,  dry  it  well  up 
into  a  stiffish  paste ;  work  it  well,  if  too  stiff  it  will  crack;  then  add  a 
trifle  more  volk  of  egg ;  the  patterns  you  will  see  by  those  at  the 
oomfectioners,  but  you  should  see  them  formed ;  no  cutters  arc  used, 
they  must  be  made  a  day  or  two ;  after  they  are  formed  let  them  stand 
on  sugared  paper  upon  your  baking  sheet,  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven, 
a  ttm  minutes  will  do  them. 


1501. — RICE  CAKE. 

Mix  nx  ounces  of  ground  rice,  the  same  quantity  of  flour,  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  fine  sugar  sifted,  nine  eggs  (the  yolks  and 
whites  beaten  separately),  grate  in  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  beat  it 
Well  half  an  hour. 


1602.-«RICB  POUND  CAKES. 

Four  ounces  of  flour,  eight  ounces  of  butter,  six  eggs,  twelre 
^tmccs  of  sugar,  eight  ounces  of  ground  rice,  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  if 
like,  which  improves  it     Or  thirty  drops  of  essence  of  lemon. 


1603. — SPONGE  CAKE. 


Weigh  ten  eggs,  tako  their  weight  in  yery  fine  sugar,  and  the 
^^«%lit  cKf  six  in  flour»  beat  tho  yolks  with  the  flour,  and  Uie  whites 


368  CAKES^   BUNS,   BISCUITS.    BBEAD,  BTC. 

alone,  to  a  strong  froth,  then  gradually  mix  the  whites  with  tiie 
pther  ingredients  and  heat  them  well  half  an  hour ;  hake  an  hour  in 
a  quick  oven. 

1504. — SAVOY  CAKE. 

Keep  your  cake  moulds  for  the  use  of  cakes  only ;  clarify  some 
butter,  and  when  nearly  cold  with  a  stiff  brush  grease  your  mould 
very  smooth  the  same  way;  be  sure  you  do  not  omit  any  part.  When 
vou  have  with  great  care  buttered  it  complete,  put  into  the  mould  i 
nandful  of  fine  sifted  sugar,  shake  it  well  about  the  mould,  tha 
knock  all  that  does  not  stick  to  the  mould  out  on  paper ;  if  it  ahoold 
be  a  mould  that  will  not  stand  set  it  in  some  sand  on  your  bakii^ 
sheet,  then  get  ready  the  things  for  your  cake.  For  a  high  large  Saroj 
cake  break  twelve  eggs  in  a  large  basin,  weigh  out  the  weight  in 
sifted  sugar  of  nine  eggs,  and  flour  dried  and  sifted  the  weight  of  six 
eggs,  put  to  the  sugar  the  grating  of  three  lemons,  then  whip  witk 
your  whisk  over  a  slow  fire  the  twelve  eggs  for^about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  take  it  off  the  fire,  put  in  your  sugar  and  lemon  peel,  continiie 
whipping  it  fast  until  cold,  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  longer,  diai 
gendy  mix  in  your  flour ;  when  well  stirred  in,  three  parts  fill  your 
mould ;  put  it  directly  into  a  moderate  oven,  you  will  know  when  it  is 
done  by  thrusting  your  knife  or  a  clean  skewer  down  the  middle,  and 
if  it  comes  out  clean  it  is  done.  If  you  have  any  left,  butt»  some 
sponge  biscuit  moulds  and  fill  them  with  it,  sifting  when  full  some 
sugar  over  the  top,  not  too  thick,  tnm  them  genUy  over  and  they 
will  drop  out  when  done. 

1505. ^TWELFTH  CAKE. 

In  the  centre  of  six  pounds  of  flour  make  an  opening ;  set  a  sponge 
with  a  gill  and  a  half  of  yeast,  and  a 'little  warm  milk;  put  round  it 
a  pound  of  fresh  butter  in  small  lumps,  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of 
sifted  sugar,  four  pounds  and  a  half  of  currants,  half  an  ounce  of 
sifted  cinnamon,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  pounded  cloves,  mace,  and 
nutmeg  mixed,  and  sliced  candied  orange  and  lemon  peel,  and  citron; 
when  risen  mix  all  together  with  a  little  warm  milk,  prepare  ^e 
hoops  as  in  a  bride  cake,  fill  and  bake ;  when  nearly  cold  ice  them 
over  with  sugar. 

1506. — YORKSHIRE  CAKES. 

Mix  two  poimds  of  flour  with  four  ounces  of  butter  melted  in  a 
pint  of  milk,  three  spoonfiils  of  yeast,  and  two  eggs;  beat  all  together, 
let  it  rise,  knead  it,  make  it  into  cakes,  place  them  on  tins>  let  them 
rise  and  then  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 


1507. — ^TO   MAKE   WAFERS. 

Take  fine  flour  dried  and  sifted,  make  it  into  a  smooth  thin  batter 
with  very  good  milk  or  a  little  cream  and  water,  add  about  as  much 
white  wine  as  will  make  it  thick  enough  for  pancakes ;  tweeten  it 
with  a  little  loaf  sugar.    When  thus  prepared  have  Uie  wafer  iroiif 


CAK^  BUK8,  BISCUITS,  BBBAD,  ETC  369 

made  ready,  by  being  beated  oyer  a  charcoal  fire,  rub  the  irons  t?ith 
a  piece  of  linen  cloth  dipped  in  butter,  then  pour  a  spoMifiil  of  the 
batter  upon  them  and  close  them  almost  immediately,  turn  them 
upon  the  fire,  pare  the  edges  with  a  knife  as  some  of  the  batter  will 
ooze  out  A  short  time  will  bake  them.  When  the  irons  are 
properly  heated  the  wafers  must  be  curled  round  while  warm. 


1506.— RATAFIAS. 

Blanch  half  a  pound  of  bitter  almonds  and  half  a  pound  of  sweet ; 
take  off  the  skins  the  day  before,  pound  them  together  very  fine,  add 
two  pounds  of  very  fine  sugar  to  them,  and  about  eight  whites  of 
eggs,  beat  it  well  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  your  mortar,  take  it  out 
ana  squeeze  it  through  a  bladder  and  a  pipe ;  squeeze  them  the  size 
of  a  six-pence  upon  kitchen  paper,  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  a 
light  brown  colour;  let  them  get  cold  before  you  take  them  off  the 
paper. 

1509. — BUNS. 

Three  pounds  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  butter  put  into  the  warm 
nulk,  half  a  pound  of  moist  sugar  made  fine,  two  ounces  of  German 
yeast  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  xold  water ;  add  it  to  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
new  milk  and  the  butter  made  warm ;  make  a  hole  in  your  flour 
which  should  be  in  a  pan,  and  then  pour  in  the  milk,  butter,  and 
yeast ;  stay  it  in  until  ot  a  thick  batter,  cover  it  over  and  stand  it  in 
the  warm,  do  not  let  it  work  too  much ;  then  mix  it  into  a  dough 
quite  smooth,  stand  it  again  in  the  warm,  and  when  it  has  risen  work 
up  and  form  your  buns.  Qrease  your  baking  sheets,  then  put  them 
in  the  warm  to  prove ;  you  must  be  sure  to  have  the  oven  ready  for 
them,  when  baked  have  ready  a  little  milk  and  sugar  mixed  which 
you  will  brush  quickly  over  the  buns. 


1510. — BATH  BUNS. 

Bub  with  the  hand  one  pound  of  fine  flour  and  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  beat  six  eggs  and  aad  them  to  the  flour  with  a  table-spoonful 
of  good  yeast;  mix  them  together  with  half  a  tea-cupful  of  milk,  set  it 
on  a  warm  place  for  an  hour;  mix  in  six  ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  and 
a  few  carraway  seeds,  mould  them  into  buns  with  a  table-spoon  on 
a  baking  plate,  throw  six  or  eight  carraway  comfits  on  each,  aud 
bake  them  in  a  hot  oven  about  ten  minutes.  These  quantities  should 
make  eighteen  buns. 

1511. BUNS,    COICMOK. 

Rub  four  ounces  of  butter  into  two  pounds  of  flour,  a  little  salt, 
four  ounces  of  sugar,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  carraways,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful,  of  ginger ;  put  some  warm  milk  or  cream  to  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  yeast,  mix  all  together  into  a  paste,  but  not  too  stiffs 
cover  it  over  and  set  it  before  the  fire  an  hour  to  rise,  then  make  it 
into  buns ;  put  them  on  a  tin,  set  them  before  the  fire  for  a  quarter 

B  B 


3f0         i&4ftfifi  MaiiB»  m»oism,  wuu^  sw. 


of  .an  hour,  icoipor  oter  swidi  flanneU  then  hrnah  them  with 
vom  mflk*  «nd  hake  them  of  a  nice  hzown  in  a  vodenteto^en. 


1512. — ^BUNB,  OOBCMON. 

To  tw,o  pounds  of  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  <^  angary 
carraway  seeds,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  a  few  Jamaica  peppers,  jab  in 
four  ounces  of  butter.  Put  into  a  cup  of  yeast  a  spoonful  or  two  of 
cream,  and  as  much  good  milk  as  wtU  make  the  abore  into  a  lig^t 
paste ;  pnt  it  by  the  fae  to  rise,  and  bake  quickly  in  tins. 

1513. — B17NS,  PLUM. 

Taike  two  pounds  of  plain  bun  paste,  add  half  a  pound  of  eorrants, 
a  ouarter  of  a  pound  of  candied  orange  peel  cut  into  small  pieces, 
half  a  nutmeg  erated,  and  half  an  ounce  of  mixed  spioe.  Fom 
them  into  buns,  dent  them  round  the  edges  with  a  knife,  and  proceed 
as  above. 


1514. SEED   BUNS. 

Xix  one  ounce  of  carraway  seeds  in  two  pounds  of  ^ain  Imn 
doii^b,form  it  into  buns;  butter  the  insides  of  tart-pans,  and  pot  one 
bun  into  each  pan,  place  them  near  the  fire  to  rise,  and  when  tins 
is  done  ice  them  with  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  to  a  firath,  mrinkle 
powdered  sugar  over  that,  dissolving  it  with  water  splashed  warn  a 
oruSh.     Bake  it  ten  minutes. 


BREAD. 

1515. — BREAD. 

Put  a  quartern  of  flour  into  a  large  basin  with  two  tea-spoonliils  of 
salt ;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  and  then  put  in  a  basin  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  yeast,  stir  in  it  a  pint  of  milk  lukewarm,  put  it  in  the 
hole  of  the  flour,  stir  it  to  make  it  just  a  thin  batter,  then  strew  a 
little  flour  over  the  top,  then  set  it  on  one  side  of  the  fire  and  cover 
it  over;  let  it  stand  till  next  morning,  then  make  it  into  a  dongii;  adi 
half  a  pint  more  of  warm  milk,  knead  it  for  ten  minutes  and  then 
set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  one  hour  and  a  half,  then  knead  it  again 
and  it  is  ready  either  for  loaves  or  bricks;  bake  them  &om  one  hour 
and  a  half  to  two  hours  according  to  the  size. 

1516. ^BREAD,    PKENCH. 

Take  half  a  bushel  of  flour,  put  it  on  the  slab,  make  a  hole  in  tb^ 
centre  in  which  put  two  ounces  of  yeast,  make  your  dough  witl* 
warm  water  to  about  the  consistence  of  brioche,  work  it  up  weU^ 
adding  two  ounces  of  salt  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water;  eov^  aiP^ 
set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  on  this  operation  depends  the  qnaii^^ 
of  the  bread.  Having  left  the  dough  one  or  two  hows,  aocording  <^ 
the  season,  knead  it  again  and  leave  it  again  for  two  hoars,  in  d^^ 
meanwhile  heat  the  oven,  divide  the  dough  into  €aght  equal  paits  ^^ 


OAKJSA,  BUBBy  BISCUITS^  BBEAl),  XTa  .  Stl 

which  form  your  loares,  put  them  in  the  oven  as  auickl?  as  possible, 
as  soon  as  thej  are  done  rub  the  crust  with  a  bit  of  butter  which 
gives  them  a  nice  light  colour. 

1517, — BREAD— FBENCH  ROLLS. 

Take  half  a  bushel  of  sifted  flour,  knead  it  into  dough  with  two 
quarts  of  milk,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  warm  butter,  half  a 
pound  of  jeast  and  two  ounces  of  salt;  when  the  whole  is  well 
worked  up  cover  and  leave  it  to  rise;  in  two  hours  time  form  it  into 
rolls  and  my  them  on  tinned  plates,  place  them  in  a  slow  oven;  when 
they  have  been  in  an  hour  put  them  into  a  very  hoi  oven  for  twenty 
minutes,  rasp  them  as  soon  as  they  are  baked. 


1518.— -800TCH  SHORT  BBBAD. 

Mix  two^  pounds  of  flour,  dried  and  well-siflted,  with  a  pound  of 
powdered  sugar,  three  ounces  of  candied  citron  and  orange  peel  cut 
into  dice,  ana  half  a  pound  of  carrraway  comfits;  mix  these  with  half 
a  pound  of  butter  melted  in  a  saucepan ;  then  make  the  paste,  roll  it 
out  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch,  cut  it  into  cakes,  place  them  on 
white  paper,  prick,  and  bake  them  of  a  pale  colour. 


B   D   2 


372  COFFEE,  TEA,  CHOCOLATE,  AND  COCOA. 


CHAPTER  XXIL 

COFFEE,  TEA,  CHOCOLATE,  AHB  COCOA. 

GofFee  and  tea  hare  now  become  such  unirenal  bererages  for  the 
morning  or  after  dinner  meal,  that  beyond  a  few  general  directions 
little  remains  for  prefaratoiy  matter. 

Coffee  should  be  purchased  in  the  berry,  and  fresh  roasted,  it 
should  always,  when  possible,  be  ground  just  previous  to  being  made. 
After  it  is  ground  it  should  not  be  exposed  to  the  air,  as  the  aroma 
speedily  flies  off.  If  more  is  ground  than  required  for  the  meal, 
keep  it  in  a  glass  closely-stopped  bottle.  Coffee,  like  tea,  should  be 
an  infusion,  not  a  decoction,  although  Monsieur  Soyer  recommendi 
boiling  after  Altering;  this  may  produce  a  powerful  flavour,  but  the 
fragrance  is  gone,  and  the  more  acrid  roughness  annoying  to  a  fine 
palate  alone  remains. 

The  best  coffee  is  the  ]\[ocha,  the  next  is  the  Java,  and  closely  ap- 
proximating is  the  Jamaica  and  Berbice. 

Of  tea  little  need  be  said ;  almost  every  one  knows  the  rules  for 
makins:  it. 

Boilinjj  water  should  alone  be  used. 

Metal  tea  pots  in  preference  to  earthenware. 

Silver  is  better  than  either. 

A  spoonful  of  tea  for  each  person.  Heat  the  tea-pot  first  with 
some  boiling  ^vater,  then  pour  that  into  the  tea-cups  to  warm  them; 
put  in  your  tea,  and  pour  enou^^h  water  on  to  the  tea  to  cover  it;  let 
it  stand  three  or  four  minutes,  then  nearly  fill  the  tea-pot  with  water, 
let  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  and  pour  out,  leaving  some  portion  of  tea 
in  the  pot  when  you  replenish,  that  all  the  strength  may  not  be 
poured  away  in  the  first  cup. 

Chocolate  can  only  be  obtained  pure  of  a  first-rate  house ;  that 
commonly  sold  is  most  iniamously  adulterated;  the  best  Spanish  or 
Italian  chocolate  should  be  purchased;  the  Florence  has  a  high 
reputation. 

Cocoa  is  the  foundation  of  chocolate,  it  may  be  pounded,  and 
either  boiled  as  milk,  or  boiling  water  may  be  poured  upon  it.  1' 
is  very  digestible,  and  of  a  fattening  natiu^. 


COFFEE. 

1519. — COFFEE — FKENCH    METHOD   OF   PREPARING    IT. 

Let  your  coffee  be  dry,  not  in  the  least  mouldy  or  damaged. 


COFFEE,  TEA,  CHOCOLATE,  AND  COCOA.      573 

divide  the  quantity  that  is  to  be  roasted  into  two  parts;  roast  the 
first  part  in  a  coffee  roaster,  the  handle  must  be  constantly  turning 
until  the  coffee  becomes  of  a  dried  almond  colour  or  bread  raspings, 
and  has  lost  one  eighth  of  its  weight;  roast  the  second  part  until  it 
becomes  the  fine  brown  colour  of  chestnuts,  and  has  lost  one  fifth 
of  its  weight,  mix  the  two  parts  together  and  grind  them  in  a  coffee 
mill;  do  not  roast  or  make  your  coffee  until  the  day  it  is  wanted. 
To  two  ounces  of  ground  coffee  put  four  cups  of  cold  water,  drain 
off"  this  infusion  and  put  it  aside  ;  put  to  the  coffee  which  remains 
in  the  biggin  three  cups  of  boiling  water,  then  drain  it  off  and  add 
this  to  that  which  has  been  put  on  one  side,  by  this  method  you 
obtain  three  cups  more ;  when  your  coffee  is  wanted  heat  it  quickly 
in  a  silver  coffee-pot,  taking  care  not  to  let  it  boil  that  the  perfume 
may  not  be  lost  by  undergoing  any  evaporation. 

1520.— <;0F FEE,   TO    BOAST. 

Coffee  should  never  be  roasted  but  when  you  are  going  to  use  it, 
and  then  it  should  be  watched  with  the  greatest  care,  and  made  of 
a  gold  colour ;  mind  and  do  not  burn  it,  for  a  few  grains  burnt 
woidd  commimicate  a  bitter  taste  to  the  whole ;  it  is  the  best  way 
to  roast  it  in  a  roaster  over  a  charcoal  fire,  which  turns  with  the 
hand,  as  by  that  means  it  will  not  be  forgotten,  which  is  very  often 
the  case  when  on  a  spit  before  the  fire. 


1521.— COFFEE   MADE   IN   A   FBENCH   FILTER  OR   GRECQUE. 

In  a  quart  filter  put  two  ounces  of  coffee,  newly  ground,  upon  the 
filter,  put  on  the  presser,  and  then  the  grating,  pour  slowly  on  the 
latter  about  three  parts  of  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  filter 
through,  keeping  the  nozzle  of  the  coffee-pot  covered  with  the  sheath, 
and  the  lid  on  the  grating ;  when  it  has  filtered  through  add  a  like 
quantity  of  boiling  water,  and  when  this  has  passed  through  add 
uie  remaining  quantity,  press  down  the  coffee  grounds,  remove  the 
upper  portion  containing  filter  and  grating,  put  on  the  lid  and 
serve. 


1522.— COFFEE— -TO   HAKE   WITH   HOT   WATER. 

Instead  of  pouring  cold  water  upon  the  coffee,  boiling  must  be 
used,  taking  care  the  froth  does  not  run  over,  which  is  to  be  pre- 
vented by  pouring  the  water  on  the  coffee  by  degrees. 


1523. — COFFEE — ^TO    MAKE   WITH   COLD  WATER. 

Upon  two  ounces  of  coffee  pour  seven  cups  of  cold  water,  then 
boil  it  until  the  coffee  falls  to  the  bottom,  when  the  froth  has 
disappeared,  and  it  is  clear  at  the  top  like  boiling  water,  it  must 
be  taken  off  the  fire  and  be  allowed  to  stand,  but  as  it  often  requires 
clearing  a  little  cold  water  should  be  poured  in  it  the  instant  it  is 
taken  off  the  fire  from  boiling.  A  quicker  way  of  clearing  it  is  by 
putting  in  a  small  piece  of  isinglass ;  when  it  has  stood  a  sufficient 
time  to  settle,  pour  it  off  into  another  coffee-pot,  and  it  is  fit  for  use* 


374  C6WTEB,  TBA,  CHOCOLATE,  AM>  COOOJ^ 

1524. — COFFEE  XtLX. 

B<hI  a  dessert-spoonful  of  coffee  in  nearly  a  jAnt  of  milk  a 
quarter  of  an  Hour,  then  put  in  a  little  isinglass  and  clear  it^  and 
let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  to  grow  fine. 


1525. — 00V7XB  CREAK. 

Mix  three  cups  of  good  coffee  with  one  pint  of  cream,  and  sogsr 
according  to  taste,  boil  them  together  and  reduce  them  about  one 
thhrd,  observe  that  the  coffee  must  be  done  as  if  it  was  for  drinkxng 
alone  and  settle  very  dear  before  you  mix  it  with  ^e  cream. 


1526.— COFFEE  WHITE    CBEAK. 

Infuse  two  ounces  of  roasted  coffee  in  a  gill  of  boiling  cream  for 
half  an  hour,  then  strain  the  cream  through  a  napkin,  sweeten,  and 
add  the  yolks  and  two  whole  eggs;  mix  it  well  and  pass  it  throng 
a  bolting  several  times,  heat  eight  small  custard  moulds  by  dijqpng 
them  in  warm  water,  having  in  the  meantime  boiled  some  sugar  to 
grand  casse  pour  it  into  the  moulds,  then  drain  and  fill  them  with  the 
preparation,  taking  care  to  stir  it  well;  let  them  stand  over  a  small 
fire,  but  with  plenty  of  fire  at  the  top;  when  done  turn  them  on  a 
dish,  heat  about  a  cupful  of  coffee  a  Teau  and  pour  it  over  ea^ 
cream. 


1527.— COFFEE  CBEAM  A  LA  FEAN^AISK. 

Boast  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  coffee  and  infuse  it  in  £re  glasses 
of  boiling  milk,  cover  it  close  and  let  it  stand  till  lukewarm,  then 
strain  and  mix  it  with  ten  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  a  grain  of 
salt,  and  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  then  proceed  as  **  Coffee  Cream  an 
Bain  Marie." 


1528.— COFFEE   AU    CREME. 

Put  two  spoonfuls  of  coffee  with  some  sugar  into  three  pints  of 
cold  cream,  boil  it  up  for  half  an  hour,  let  it  stand,  beat  up  the 
yolks  of  eight  eggs,  strain  them  through  a  sieve,  and  mix  the  whole 
together,  put  it  into  a  bain  marie  to  simmer  over  a  slow  fire,  keeping 
it  constantly  stirred. 


1529. COFFEE   CBEAM   AU    BAIN   HABIE. 

Infuse  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  roasted  coffee  in  six  glasses  of 
boiling  milk,  cover  it  close  till  warm,  strain,  mix  it  a  little  at  a 
time  with  ten  yolks,  one  whole  egg,  a  grain  of  salt,  and  ten  oonces 
of  sugar ;  when  thoroughly  incorporated  strain  again,  and  finish  b$ 
usual. 


1530.— COFFEE  1  L'EAU,   CREAM   AU   BAIN   MARIE. 

Infuse  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground  coffee  into  a  glass  of 
boiling  water,  let  it  stand,  and  when  the  coffee  is  settled  pour  off 


COmsS,  TEA,  CHOCieKULTKy  AND  COCO^IL  ^& 

"  '■  -  -        .  .      . 

the  liquor  into*  a  presarting  psM^  m  ifhieh  i&  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  tufar,  boiled  to  caramel  t  eo^rer  this  closely;  and  dissoWe'  Hie 

Xovev  hot  ashes,  then  pour  the  coffee  into  five  glasses  of  hot 
mix  them  with  jolka  of  ten  eggs  and  one  wholoy  8i»  winees  e£ 
powdered  sugar,  anda  grain  of  salt,  strain  the  cream  and  finish  in^ 
the  usual  wa j» 


1531.— COPFEE  A  l'eAXT,   cream  a   la   FSAN9AI8E. 

Infuse  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  'ground  cofiee  in  a  glass  of  water 
hofling;  when  the  coflfoe  is  precipitated  pour  it  off  clear.  Boil  a 
onrter  oi  a  pound  of  sugar  to  caramel,  pour  the  cofiee  to  it,  and 
uca:  set  it  on  hot  ashes  that  the  sugar  may  dissolve  gently,  and 
when  it  is  perfectly  melted  stir  m  gradually  the  yolks  of  eight 
eggSr  four  glasses  of  boiling  milk,  and  six  ounces  of  sugar,  after 
which  put  it  on  a  moderate  fire,  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
iriieflu  it  begins  lb  simmer  pass  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  let  it 
stHid  till,  luke-warm;  then  mix  it  in  six  drachms  of  clarified  isin-^ 
glass,  and  finish. 


1532.— coPFEE  A  l'bau,  whiffed  cbeam. 

ittfbse  two  ounces  of  fresh  ground  coffee  in  half  a  glass  of  water, 
and  when  the  infusion  is  drawn  off  clear,  put  it  to  two  ounces  of 
aiQgar  boiled  to  caramel,  place  it  over  hot  ashes,  and  when  the 
sugar  is  dissolved  let  it  cool,  then  mix  it  and  four  ounces  of 
powdered  sugar,  with  the  whipped  cream.     See  that  article. 


1533. — coffee  au  jattne  d'ceuf. 

Put  into  a  basin  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  some  sugar,  then  gently 
pour  over  them  one  cup  of  coffee ;  carefully  beat  them  together  that 
they  may  be  well  mixed,  add  to  them  one  cup  of  water,  then  put  it 
into  a  bain  marie  to  warm,  keeping  it  constantly  stirring  with  a 
^ooiL  to  prevent  its  curdling ;  when  it  is  warm  serve  it  out  in  cupa. 


1534. — COFFEE — TO  GIVE  THE  FLAVOtTB  OP  VANrLLA. 

Take  a  handful  of  oats  very  clean,  and  let  them  boil  for  five  or 
nx  minutes  in  soft  water,  throw  this  away  and  fill  it  up  with  an 
equal  quantity  and  let  it  boil  for  half  an  hour.,  then  pass  this  decoc- 
tion through  a  silk  sieve  and  use  it  to  make  your  coffee,  which  will 
acquire  by  this  means  the  flavour  of  vanilla,  and  is  very  nice. 


1535.—- COFFEE   ICE  A   L*ITALIBNMB. 

Infuse  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  coffee  in  a  pint  of  double  cream, 
bmling  hot,  for  two  hours,  closely  covered :  half  whip  the  whites  of 
Toane  eggs,  and  having  strained  the  cream  Arom  the  cofifee,  mix  it 
with  £em;  add  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  put  it  over  a 
gentle  fire  till  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  ice  it. 


376  COFFEE,  TEA,  CHOCOLATE,  AND  COCOA. 

I  ^  III.  I 

1536.— COFFEE  FROTHED    OR  WHIPPED. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground  coffee,  make  a  very  strong 
infusion  with  it,  and  pass  this  through  a  straining-bag;  having  dis- 
solyed  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  in  a  pint  of 
double  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  put  in  the  coffee,  of  which 
there  should  be  no  more  than  three  cups,  and  whipped  as  directed 
in  froth  cream. 


1537. — COFFEE  JELLT. 

Roast  a  quarter  of  a  pound  over  a  moderate  fire  to  a  fine  yellow ; 
take  it  from  the  fire,  set  aside  the  eighth  part  of  it,  and  throw  the 
rest  into  three  glasses  of  nearly  boiling  water;  cover  it  close,  and 
let  it  cool.  In  the  meantime  boil  half  a  glass  of  water  and  pour  it 
over  the  small  portion  of  coffee,  which  should  be  ground,  add  a 
little  isinglass;  when  perfectly  clear  pour  it  to  the  other  mixture. 
Having  strained  it  through  a  silk  sieve,  filter  the  whole,  and  mix  it 
with  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  clarified  sugar  and  an  ounce  of 
isinglass,  and  half  a  glass  of  kirschwasser.    Finish  with  ice. 


1538. — COFFEE,   FARFAIT   AMOUR. 

For  four  bottles  of  brandy  take  one  pound  of  coffee  in  powder,  a 
little  salt,  a  little  cinnamon,  two  cloves,  then  mix  bH  together  for 
twelve  hours  before  you  distil  it ;  two  pounds  of  sugar,  two  bottles 
and  half  a  pint  of  water,  clarified  with  whites  of  eggs  filtered, 
through  paper. 


CHOCOLATE. 

1539. — CHOCOLATE. 

According  as  you  intend  to  make  this,  either  with  milk  or  water, 
put  a  cup  of  one  or  the  other  of  these  liquids  into  a  chocolate-pot, 
with  one  ounce  of  cake  chocolate ;  some  persons  dissolve  the 
chocolate  before  they  put  it  into  the  milk ;  as  soon  as  the  milk  or 
water  begins  to  boil  mill  it ;  when  the  chocolate  is  dissolved  and 
begins  to  bubble  take  it  off  the  fire,  letting  it  stand  near  it  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  then  mill  it  again  to  make  it  frothy ;  afterwards 
serve  it  out  in  cups. 

The  chocolate  should  not  be  milled  unless  it  is  prepared  with 
cream ;  chocolate  in  cakes  should  always  be  made  use  of  in  ices  and 
dragees. 

1540.— CHOCOLATE   DROPS. 

Take  one  pound  and  a  half  of  chocolate,  put  it  on  a  pewter  plate 
and  put  it  in  the  oven  just  to  warm  the  chocolate,  then  put  it  into  a 
copper  stewpan  with  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar; 
mix  it  well  over  the  fire,  take  it  off,  and  roll  it  in  pieces  the  size  of 
small  marbles,  put  them  on  white  paper,  and  when  they  are  all  on 
take  the  sheets  of  paper  by  each  comer  and  lift  it  up  and  down,  so 


COFFEE,  TEA,  CHOCOLATE,  AND  COCOA.      3W 

that  the  paper  may  touch  the  table  each  time,  and  by  that  means 
you  will  see  the  drops  come  quite  fat,  about  the  size  of  a  sixpence; 
put  some  sugar  nonpareils  over  them,  and  cover  all  that  are  on  the 
paper,  then  shake  them  off,  and  you  will  see  all  the  chocolate  drops 
are  covered  with  the  sugar  nonpareils ;  let  them  stand  till  cold  and 
they  will  come  off  well,  and  then  put  them  in  a  box  prepared. 


1541. — CHOCOLATE   BON-BONS. 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  chocolate  over  a  fire  to  dissolve  it, 
and  having  boiled  two  pounds  of  sugar  to  fort  perle,  put  a  spoonful 
or  two  into  the  chocolate,  stir  it  well  till  it  forms  a  thin  paste  and 
then  pour  it  on  the  sugar,  and  boil  it  to  caramel ;  in  the  meantime 
melt  a  little  butter,  skim  and  pour  it  off  clear  into  a  basin,  take  a 
spoonful  of  it  and  rub  it  with  yoxur  hand  over  a  marble  slab  or  table, 
on  this  pour  the  chocolate  and  sugar;  then  take  two  ends  of  a  sword- 
blade,  one  in  each  hand  and  press  lines  an  inch  apart  all  down  it, 
cross  them  in  the  same  manner  so  as  to  mark  the  sugar  in  squares 
all  over,  doing  it  as  quickly  as  possible  lest  the  sugar  should  cool 
before  you  have  done  them,  pass  the  sword-blade  between  the 
marble  and  the  sugar,  lay  under  the  sugar  sheets  of  paper,  and 
when  cold  break  it  into  pieces  according  to  the  marks,  and  wrap 
each  square  in  paper. 

1542. TEA   CREAM. 

Infuse  an  ounce  of  the  best  green  tea  in  half  a  pint  of  boiling 
milk,  simmer  it  ^ve  minutes,  then  strain  it  through  a  tammy,  pressing 
the  leaves  well ;  boil  a  pint  of  rich  cream,  add  to  it  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs  beaten,  and  sufficient  quantity  of  clarified  sugar;  pour  this 
whilst  hot  to  the  milk,  stir  them  together  well,  put  in  as  much 
clarified  isinglass  as  will  set  it,  and  pour  the  cream  into  the  mould 
or  ^^asses,  place  them  on  ice  when  perfectly  cold,  turn  it  out  of  the 
mould  or  serve  in  the  glasses. 

1543. TEA  CREAM. CREME  DU  THE. 

Boil  two  drachms  or  more  of  good  green  tea  in  a  quart  of  milk;  in 
a  few  minutes  strain  it,  add  three  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  set  it  on  £e  fire  and  reduce 
it  to  half,  then  strain  it  again ;  when  cold  serve  it 


1544. — ^TEA   ICE. 

Take  two  drachms  of  the  best  tea,  tie  it  in  a  bit  of  muslin,  and 
boil  it  in  two  quarts  of  cream ;  when  the  infusion  is  sufficiently  strong, 
take  out  the  muslin,  squeeze  it  well,  and  mix  the  cream  with  the 
eggs  and  sugar. 


BOMB  KADZ  wnXK 


CHAPTER  XXin. 


OW  that  tnlt  mA  1^1* 
ara  batk  M  eb«i^  all  bonw 
wivei  m^  add    wioea  W 
tbrnr   kotudtoU  atom  m 
CMil^rBa  th«  nay  preMcnir 
Tb«  difficuftr  and  exprnm 
of  makinff  ia  trifliag  m»- 
pared  with  what  th«  liMt 
used  to  be.     Next  to  Aa 
Auit,  sugar  is  the  moat  im- 
portant ingredient.   la  wine 
countries  the  grape,  andtr 
tite  influcnre  of  climate,  contains  within 
itself  ihc  chemical  propmies  tn  priMhiee 
fermentiitioo,  while  in  England  attificid 
aid  is  compelled  to  be  used  to  accom[diih 
it.     The  f'uur  requisites  for  fermentation 
are  sugar,  vegetable  extract,  malic  add, 
'     iittr  ;  and  npon  the  proper  regnb- 
if   these   constitnents  the  Enccen 
Is. 
The  fermentation  requires  great  atten- 
inn,  nod  should  neiiher  be  suffered  to 
_  I  long,  nor  be  checked  toa 

early.  Its  commencement,  which  will  be  about  a  day  atter  dw 
articles  have  been  mixed,  will  attract  attention  by  the  noise  it 
makes.  For  a  sweet  wine,  the  cask  should  not  be  closed  until  the 
sound  of  fermentation  has  almost  ceaeed.  If  a  dry  wine,  have  read; 
a  barret  which  has  been  subjected  to  the  fumes  of  sulpher,  and  draw 
off  your  wine  into  it.  Kack  off  the  wine,  clearing  it  with  iaingl^ 
and  bottle  in  about  ten  weeks  after  it. 


1545. APPLE  WINE. 

Add  to  a  barrel  of  cyder  the  berb  scurlea,  the  quintessence  of 
wine,  a  little  nitie,  and  a  pound  of  syrup  of  honey,  lict  it  work  in 
the  cask  till  clear  and  well  settled,  then  draw  it  off  and  it  will  be 
little  inferior  to  Rhenish  either  in  cleaxness,  colour,  or  flavour. 


HOMB  MADS  WHIES.  379 

164d — APBICOT  W1K«. 

Pare  and  stone  some  ripe  apricots;  braise  and  put  them  ta  six 
quarts  of  water  and  one  of  white  wine;  simmer  gently  for  some 
time,  when  the  fruit  is  soft  pour  the  liquid  to  apricots  prepared  as 
the  others.  Let  it  stand  twelve  hours,  stirring  it  often,  pour  off  the 
liquid,  and  press  the  remains  through  a  fine  bag,  and  put  them 
together  in  a  cask  to  ferment,  put  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  gallon. 
Bool  an  ounce  of  mace  and  half  an  ounce  of  nutmeg  in  a  quart  of 
white  wine,  and  while  hot  pour  it  in  the  fermenting  wine,  and  hang 
a  bunch  of  fresh  barrage  in  the  cask  for  three  days ;  draw  it  off  and 
keep  in  bottles. 

1547. — ^BALM  WINB. 

Boil  twenty  pounds  of  lump  sugar  in  four  gallons  and  a  half  of 
water  gently  for  an  hour,  and  put  it  in  a  tub  to  cool ;  bruise  two 
pounds  of  the  tops  of  green  balm,  and  put  them  into  a  barrel  with 
a  little  new  yeast,  and  when  the  syrup  is  nearly  cold  pour  it  on  the 
balm ;  stir  it  well  together,  and  let  it  stand  four  and  twenty  hours, 
stirring  frequently;  bring  it  up,  and  when  it  has  stood  for  six  weeks 
tettle  li,  put  a  lump  of  sugar  into  each  bottle ;  cork  tight. 


1548. — ^BABLEY  WINE. 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  French  barley  in  three  waters;  save  about  a 
pint  of  the  last  water,  and  mix  it  with  a  quart  of  white  wine,  half  a 
pint  of  borage  water,  as  much  clary  water,  a  little  red  rose  water, 
the  juice  of  five  or  six  lemons,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar, 
the  rind  of  a  lemon,  strain  and  bottle  it  up. 


1549. — BIBCU  WINE. 

Tbe  season  for  procuring  the  liquor  from  the  birch  tree  is  in  the 
beginning  of  March,  while  the  sap  is  rising  and  before  the  leaves 
shoot  out ;  for  when  the  sap  is  come  forward  and  the  leaves  appear, 
the  juice,  by  being  long  digested  in  the  bark,  grows  thick  and 
coloured,  which  before  was  white  and  clear.  The  method  of  procur- 
ing juice  is  by  boring  holes  in  the  body  of  the  trees  and  putting 
in  fossets,  which  are  made  from  the  branches  of  elder,  the  pith 
being  taken  out  You  may,  without  hurting  the  tree,  if*  large,  tap 
it  in  several  places,  four  or  five  at  a  time,  and  by  that  means  save 
from  a  good  many  trees  several  gallons  every  day;  if  you  have  not 
enough  in  one  day,  the  bottles  in  which  it  drops  must  be  corked  close 
and  rosined  or  waxed,  make  use  of  it  as  soon  as  you  can.  Take  the 
sap  and  boil  it  as  long  as  any  scum  rises,  skimming  it  all  the  time. 
To  every  gallon  of  liquor  pour  four  pounds  of  good  sugar,  the  thin 
peel  of  a  lemon,  boil  it  afterwards  half  an  hour,  skimming  it  very 
well,  pour  it  into  a  clean  tub,  and  when  it  is  almost  cold  set  it  to 
work  with  yeast,  spread  upon  a  toast ;  let  it  stand  five  or  six  days, 
stirring  it  often;  then  take  such  a  cask  as  will  hold  the  liquor,  fire 
a  large  match  dipped  in  brimstone,  and  throw  it  into  the  cask,  stop 


380  HOME  MADE  W1NE&. 

it  close  until  the  match  is  extinguished,  tun  your  wine,  lay  the  bung 
on  light  till  you  find  it  has  done  working;  stop  it  close  and  keep  it 
three  months,  then  bottle  it  off. 


1550.— BLACKBEBBT  WINE, 

Put  some  ripe  blackberries  into  a  large  vessel  with  a  cock  in  it; 
pour  on  as  much  boiling  water  as  will  cover  them,  and  as  soon 
as  the  heat  will  permit,  bruise  them  well  with  the  hand  till  aU 
the  berries  are  broken;  cover  them,  and  in  about  three  or  four  days, 
when  the  berries  rise  to  the  top,  draw  off  the  clear  part  into  an- 
other vessel;  add  to  every  ten  quarts  of  the  liquor  one  pound  of 
sugar,  stir  it  well  in,  and  let  it  stand  a  week  or  ten  days  to  worL 
Draw  it  off  through  a  jelly  bag.  Steep  four  ounces  of  isinglass  in  a 
pint  of  sweet  wine  for  twelve  hours,  then  boil  it  slowly  till  dis- 
solved, put  it  in  a  gallon  of  the  juice ;  boil  them  together,  then  pot 
al^  together,  let  it  stand  a  few  days,  and  bottle. 


1551. CHEBBT  WINE. 

To  make  five  pints  of  this  wine,  take  fifteen  pounds  of  cherriety 
and  two  of  currants;  bruise  them  together,  mix  with  them  two* 
thirds  of  the  kernels,  and  put  the  whole  of  the  cherries,  cur- 
rants, and  kernels  into  a  barrel  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  every  pint  of  juice.  The  barrel  must  be  quite  full ;  cover  the 
barrel  with  vine  leaves  and  sand  above  them,  and  let  it  stand  until 
it  has  done  working,  which  will  be  in  about  three  weeks;  then  8t(^ 
it  with  a  bung,  and  in  two  months'  time  it  may  be  bottled. 

1552. — CHOCOLATE  WINE. 

Take  a  pint  of  sherry  or  a  pint  and  a  half  of  port,  four  ounces 
and  a  half  of  chocolate,  six  ounces  of  fine  sugar,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  white  starch  or  fiour,  mix,  dissolve,  and  boil  these  altogether  for 
ten  or  twelve  minutes ;  but  if  your  chocolate  is  made  with  sugar, 
take  double  the  quantity  of  chocolate  and  half  the  quantity  of 
sugar. 


1553. — CLABET — ^ABTIFICIAL. 

Distil  in  a  cold  still  one  part  of  clary  water,  half  a  part  of  rad- 
streak  cyder,  and  put  them  with  six  pounds  of  Malaga  raisins  beaten 
in  a  mortar,  and  one  pound  of  the  fat  mother  of  claret  in  a  close 
vessel  to  ferment;  when  it  has  stood  a  fortnight  draw  it  off,  and  for 
every  gallon  put  half  a  pint  of  mulberry,  blackberry,  or  gooseberry 
juice,  and  a  pint  of  spirit  of  clary;  to  the  whole  put  three  spoonfuU 
of  flour,  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  a  dram  of  isinglass,  and  two 
pounds  of  syrup  of  clary ;  mix  the  whole  well  together,  and  let  it 
stand,  when  quite  clear  bottle  it. 


1554.— CLABY  WINE. 

Boil  six  gallons  of  water,  a  dozen  pounds  of  sugar,  the  juice  of 


HOME  MADE  WIKE6.  381 

six  lemons,  and  four  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs  for  half  an  hour, 
skimming  it  carefully;  then  pour  this,  while  boiling  hot,  on  a  peck 
of  fresh  clary  flowers,  with  the  peels  of  the  lemons  used  above,  and 
stir  it  well ;  add  a  thin  dry  toast  covered  with  yeast.  When  it  has 
worked  two  or  three  days,  add  to  it  six  ounces  of  syrup  of  lemons, 
and  a  quart  of  Rhenish  wine.  Squeeze  the  clary  through  a  cloth, 
strain  the  liquor  through  a  flannel  bag  in  a  cask,  lay  the  bung  on 
loosely,  and  if  in  the  course  of  a  few  days  it  does  not  work,  bung  it 
quite  close.    The  wine  may  be  bottled  in  three  months. 


1555. CUBBANT  WINE. 

Take  sixteen  pounds  of  currants,  three  gallons  of  water;  break  the 
currants  with  your  hands  in  the  water,  strain  it  off;  put  to  it  four- 
teen pounds  of  sugar,  strain  it  into  a  vessel,  add  a  pint  of  brandy, 
and  a  pint  of  raspberries;  stop  it  down,  and  let  it  stand  three 
months. 


1556. — CUBBANT  WINE — BED  OB  WHITE. 

Take  thirty  pounds  of  either  red  or  white  currants,  and  an  equal 
quantity  of  black  currants,  and  small  cherries  not  stoned,  and 
leaving  on  the  stalks ;  put  the  whole  into  a  cask,  and  bruise  them 
with  a  large  stick ;  then  boil  half  a  quarter  of  juniper  berries  in  five 
or  six  pints  of  water,  to  which  add  half  a  pound  of  honey  to  make 
the  juniper  berries  ferment ;  when  they  have  fermented  mix  them 
with  the  juice  of  the  fruits.  Stir  it  together  during  four  and  twenty 
hours  two  or  three  times,  then  fill  up  the  cask  with  water,  and 
close  it.  This  quantity  will  make  1 50  bottles  of  excellent  wine  ;  if 
you  wish  to  make  it  stronger  put  in  a  pint  or  two  of  brandy. 


1557- CUBBANT  WINE — BLACK. 

Take  three  pounds  of  ripe  black  currants,  pick  and  bruise  them,  and 
put  them  into  a  deep  basin  with  four  bottles  and  a  half  of  brandy; 
add,  if  you  please,  some  cloves  and  a  little  bruised  cinnamon,  and 
set  the  jar  in  a  place  for  two  months.  At  the  end  of  that  time  strain 
off  the  liquor,  press  the  currants  well  in  order  to  extract  all  the 
juice,  which  put  again  into  the  jar  with  a  pound  and  three  quarters 
of  sugar;  leave  it  until  the  sugar  is  melted,  and  then  strain  through 
paper  and  bottle  off.  This  liquor  becomes  excellent  after  three  or 
four  years'  keeping. 

1558. — COWSLIP  WINE. 

One  gallon  of  water,  three  pounds  of  lump  sugar,  one  Seville 
orange,  and  one  lemon  to  every  gallon  of  cowslip  pips.  First  boil  the 
water  and  sugar  an  hour,  skim  it  clear  and  boil,  pour  it  out,  let  it 
stand  till  nearly  cold,  then  put  it  in  the  barrel  upon  the  pips,  with  a 
teacupful  of  yeast  to  eight  gallons  of  wine.  Peel  half  the  number 
of  oranges  and  lemons,  squeeze  the  juice  into  the  cask,  cut  the 
Temainder  into  slices,  which  add  with  the  peels.   When  the  fermen- 


382  HOMS  IIADB  WIHBa. 

tatbn  ceases  or  has  lasted  long  enough,  put  to  tks  whole  a  lUtb 
brandy. 

1669.— CYPRUS  WINE — TO  IXITATB. 

To  nine  gallons  of  water  put  nine  quarts  of  the  juice  of  white 
elder-berries,  which  have  been  pressed  gentlj  from  the  berries,  and 
passed  through  a  sieve  without  bruising  the  kemeb  of  the  berries; 
add  to  every  gallon  of  liquor,  three  pounds  of  Lisbon  sugar;  to  the 
whole  put  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  ginger  sliced^  and  three  quartets 
of  an  ounce  of  cloves ;  then  boil  this  near  an  hour,  taking  off  the 
scum  as  it  rises,  and  pour  the  whole  to  cool  in  a  tub,  and  work  it 
with  ale  yeast  spread  upon  a  toast  of  bread  for  three  days,  then 
put  it  into  a  vessel  thst  will  just  hold  it,  adding  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  raisins  split,  to  lie  in  liquor  till  you  draw  it  off,  which  will  be  in 
January. 

,  1560. — DAMSON  WINE. 

Gather  the  damsons  on  a  dry  day,  and  bruise  them.  Put  them 
into  a  stein  with  a  cock  in  it,  and  to  every  eight  pounds  of  fruit  add 
one  gallon  of  boiling  water.  In  two  days  you  may  draw  it  off,  and  put 
it  into  a  vessel,  and  to  every  gallon  of  the  liquor  add  two  pounds  and 
a  half  of  sugar.  Fill  up  and  stop  it  up  close.  Keep  it  in  a  cool  cellar 
for  twelve  months,  then  bottle  it,  putting  a  lump  of  sugar  into  each 
bottle.  Cork  them  well,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use  in  two  months 
after. 


1561. — SLDEB  WINE. 

Pour  a  gallon  of  boiling  water  over  every  gallon  of  berries,  let  it 
stand  twelve  hours;  then  draw  it  off  and  boil  it  up  with  three  pounds 
and  a  half  of  sugar;  when  boiling  beat  up  some  whites  of  eggs,  and 
clarify  it:  skim  it  clear,  then  add  half  an  ounce  of  pounded  ginger  to 
every  gallon  of  the  wine ;  boil  it  a  little  longer  before  you  put  it  in 
the  tub ;  when  cool  put  in  a  toast  rubbed  in  yeast;  let  it  ferment  a 
day  or  two,  after  which  put  it  into  a  barrel  previously  rinced  witii 
brandy.  All  wines  should  be  lukewarm  when  the  yeast  is  added 
to  it. 


1562. — ELDER   WINE — ANOTHER  WAT. 

To  three  pounds  of  elderberries  put  one  pound  of  damsons,  and 
to  a  nine  gallon  cask  put  a  pint  of  sloes.  Boil  two  gallons  of  water 
with  an  ounce  of  hops  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  then  put  in  sugar, 
such  as  four  pounds  to  five  quarts  of  water ;  keep  skimming  as  it 
rises,  and  then  set  it  to  cool;  boil  the  fruit  for  half  an  hour,  strain 
the  juice,  and  put  a  quart  of  it  to  every  gallon  of  water;  then  let  it 
work  with  yeast  for  three  days;  put  it  in  the  barrel  and  stop  it 
close.  The  spice  and  sugar  to  be  put  according  to  taste.  When  the 
%vine  has  stood  six  weeks  put  in  four  pounds  of  stoned  raisins. 

1563. ELDER  FLOWER  WINE. 

Put  ten  pound?  of  sugar  to  four  gallons  of  water«  boil  it  till  a 


MOia  MAJOB  WIKBi.  363 

sixth  part  is  wasted  away;  while  it  is  hoiHng  skim  it  well;  then  set 
it  bj  till  it  is  at  cool  as  wort,  then  put  in  a  spoonful  of  yeast,  and 
ja»  Mooa  as  it  begins  to  work,  put  in  about  a  pint  and  a  half  of  bios- 
.aoms  of  elder  picked  from  the  stalks,  stir  it  daily  until  it  has  done 
mxkingy  whidx  will  be  in  about  a  week;  then  put  it  in  a  cask, 
9tap  it  close,  let  it  stand  two  or  three  months,  and  if  it  is  clear 
bottle  off. 


1564. GIKGEB  WIKK. 

To  erery  g^on  of  water  add  three  pounds  of  sugar,  and  one 
pound  of  ginger,  the  paring  of  one  lemon,  half  a  pound  of  raisins 
stoned;  boil  all  half  an  hour,  let  it  stand  until  it  is  lukewarm,  then 
put  it  into  the  cask  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  add  one  spoonful  of 
yeast  to  every  gallon,  stir  it  every  day  for  ten  days,  then  add  half  a 
pint  of  brandy  to  every  two  gallons,  half  an  ounce  of  isiugiass  to 
every  six  gallons ;  stop  it  close  down,  and  in  about  eight  weeks  it 
win  be  fit  to  bottle. 


1565.— GINGER   whtb. 

-  Put  ten  gallons  of  water  with  fifteen  pounds  of  lump  sugar,  and 
the  whites  of  eight  eggs  well  beaten  and  strained;  mix  the  whole 
ifdl  together  while  cold;  when  the  liquor  boils  skim  it  well;  put  in 
llfdf  a  pound  of  common  white  ginger  bruised,  and  let  it  boil  twenty 
minutes.  Have  in  readiness  the  rind  of  seven  lemons,  cut  the  rind 
thin  and  pour  the  liquor  on  them ;  tun  it  when  cool  with  two  spoonr 
fUb  of  yeast;  to  a  quart  of  the  liquor  put  two  ounces  of  isinglass 
shavings,  while  warm,  whisk  it  well  three  or  four  times  and  put  the 
whole  into  the  barrel.  Next  day  stop  it  up ;  in  three  weeks  bottle 
it;  and  in  three  months  it  will  be  fit  to  drink. 


1566.^-GO0SEBERRT   WINE. 

the  gooseberries  with  the  hands  in  a  tub;  to  every  six 
povmds  of  firuit  add  a  quart  of  cold  spring  water  stirring  it  thorouehly, 
let  it  stand  twenty  hours,  then  strain  them  ;  dissolve  two  pounds  of 
sugar  to  every  quart  of  water  employed,  let  it  remain  another  day, 
remove  the  scum  very  clearly,  and  pour  it  into  the  utensil  or  cask  in 
which  it  is  to  remain  previous  to  being  bottled.  The  scum  removed 
must  be  kept  in  flannel,  and  the  drainings  caught  in  a  vessel,  they 
must  be  added  to  the  other  liquor.  Let  it  work  about  sixty  hours, 
not  more,  and  then  cover  down  close.  In  four  months  it  will  be 
ready  for  bottling. 


1567.— GRAPE   WINE. 

To  one  gallon  of  grapes  put  one  gallon  of  water,  bruise  the 
grapes,  let  them  stand  a  week  without  stirring,  then  draw  it  off  and 
fine.  Put  to  a  gallon  of  wine  three  pounds  of  sugar,  put  it  in  a 
TQStel,  but  it  mnst  not  be  stopped  till  it  has  done  hissing. 


384  HOME  MADE  WIKE8. 

1568.— MOUNTAIN  WINS. 

Take  some  Malaga  raisins,  press  and  chop  them  fine,  and  to  ten 
pounds  of  raisins  put  two  gallons  of  water;  let  them  steep  three 
weeks,  stirring  it  now  and  then  during  the  time;  squeeze  out  the 
liquor  and  put  it  in  a  vessel  that  will  just  hold  it,  hut  he  careful  not 
to  stop  it  until  it  has  done  hissing,  then  hung  it  up  close.  It  will 
he  fit  for  use  in  six  months. 


1569. — ^MULBERRY  WINE. 

Take  mulherries  that  are  quite  ripe;  gather  them  when  the  weather 
is  fine,  spread  them  on  a  cloth  on  the  floor  or  tahle  for  twenty-fbnr 
hours,  and  hoil  up  a  gallon  of  water  to  a  gallon  of  juice;  skim  the 
water  well,  and  add  a  little  cinnamon  hruised.  Add  to  every  gallon 
six  ounces  of  white  sugar-candy  finely  heaten,  skim  and  strain  the 
water  when  it  is  taken  off  and  settled,  and  put  to  it  the  juice  of  tbe 
mulberries,  and  to  every  gallon  of  the  mixture  put  a  pint  of  white  or 
Rhenish  wine;  let  them  stand  six  days  in  a  cask  to  settle,  then  draw 
off  the  wine  and  keep  it  cool.     This  is  a  very  rich  wine. 


1570.— ORANGE  WINE. 

A  dozen  of  oranges  to  a  gallon  of  water  and  three  pounds  of  kaf 
sugar;  pare  the  oranges  thin,  and  take  off  all  the  white  sldn;  squeeie 
them  well,  and  then  put  all  the  juice,  oranges,  and  the  water  toge- 
ther, and  let  it  stand  for  four  and  twenty  hours:  then  strain  it  off  uid 
put  it  into  a  barrel  with  sugar,  half  the  peels,  and  a  quart  of  the  best 
hrandy;  bung  it  down  when  it  has  done  hissing:  it  must  stand 
twelve  months  before  it  is  bottled.  The  water  must  be  cold,  not 
boiled. 


1571. PARSNIP  WINE. 

Clean  and  quarter  four  pounds  of  parsnips,  to  which  put  one  gal- 
lon of  water;  boil  them  till  tender,  drain  them  through  a  sieve,  but 
do  not  bruise  them;  pour  the  liquor  into  a  tub,  and  to  each  gallon 
add  three  pounds  of  lump  sugar  and  half  an  ounce  of  crude  tartar; 
when  cool  put  in  the  yeast,  and  let  it  stand  four  days  in  a  warm 
room,  then  turn  it.  The  mixture  should  be  fermented  in  a  tempera- 
ture of  sixty  degrees.  When  fermentation  has  subsided,  bung  down 
the  cask,  and  let  it  stand  twelve  months  before  bottling  it.  March 
and  September  are  the  best  months  for  making  it  It  only  requires 
to  be  kept  a  few  years  to  make  it  superior  to  all  other  made  wines. 


1572. — RAISIN   WINE. 

One  hundred  of  Smymas  to  twenty  gallons  of  water  (wine  mea- 
sure) ;  boil  half  a  pound  of  hops  in  the  water  for  an  hour,  let  it  stand 
till  cold,  then  pour  it  over  the  fruit ;  let  it  remain  three  weeks,  stir- 
ring it  every  day;  press  it  off  and  put  it  into  the  cask;  do  not  bung 
it  do>vn  till  the  fermentation  has  ceased  ;  when  it  has  stood  about  a 
year  draw  it  off  clear,  put  it  in  tbe  barrel  again,  and  let  it  stand  to  set- 
tle before  it  is  bottled;  before  it  is  bunged  down  close  put  a  quart  of 


HOME  ICADB  WIKE8.  385 

biandj  to  a  hogshead  of  wine ;  what  is  thick  should  be  ran  through 
a  flannel  bag. 

The  time  for  steeping  depends  on  the  warmth  of  the  weather. 
When  the  fruit  is  swelled  readj  to  break  it  is  fit  to  press. 


1573. — RASPBERRY  WINE. 

Take  three  pounds  of  raisins,  wash,  clean,  and  stone  them  tho«> 
roughly ;  boil  two  gallons  of  spring  water  for  half  an  hour ;  as  soon 
88  it  is  taken  off  the  fire  pour  it  into  a  deep  stone  jar,  and  put  in  the 
laisinB,  with  six  quarts  oi  raspberries  and  two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar ; 
stir  it  well  together,  and  cover  them  closely,  and  set  it  in  a  cool 
place ;  stir  it  twice  a  day,  then  pass  it  through  a  sieve ;  put  the 
liquor  into  a  close  vessel,  adding  one  pound  more  loaf  sugar ;  let  it 
stand  for  a  day  and  night  to  settle,  after  which  bottle  it,  adding  a 
little  more  sugar. 

1574. — ^WALNUT  WINE. 

To  one  gallon  of  water  put  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar  and  a 
pound  of  honey,  and  boil  them  for  half  an  hour ;  be  careful  to  skim  • 
it  dean ;  put  into  a  tub  a  handful  of  walnut  leaves  to  every  gallon, 
and  pour  the  liquor  upon  them ;  let  it  stand  all  night,  then  take  out 
the  leaves  and  put  in  half  a  pint  of  yeast  Let  it  work  fourteen  days; 
beat  it  five  times  a  day  to  take  off  its  sweetness,  and  stop  up  the 
cask.    It  should  stand  six  months  before  it  is  used. 


C  0 


366  LiQUBuna^  BSYB&Aoafl^  vr^f 

,  — — '•    ^- w 


CHAPTER  XXIV. 
UtfUSmtS,  BEVIRAOEBi  BIC. 

1575. — ^AQUA   M1RABILI8. 

Take  cloves,  mace,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  galingal,  cubebs,  cardamomt, 
of  each  four  drachms ;  put  to  them  the  juice  of  two  pints  of  ce- 
landine, one  pint  of  the  juice  of  spear  mmt ;  balm  juice,  flowen  of 
nelilot,  oowdips,  rosemaiy,  burrage,  bugloss,  and  mariffolds,  of  eftch 
one  drachm ;  carrawaj,  coriander,  and  ^nnel,  of  each  ronr  dracliiDt; 
fow  quarts  of  sack,  and  two  of  white  wine ;  the  strongest  bniidj, 
angelica  water,  and  rose  water,  of  each  one  quart.  BnuBe  the  ^ieei 
and  seeds,  and  steep  them  with  the  herbs  and  flowen  in  their  jmes, 
waters,  sack,  wine,  and  brandy,  all  night.  Next  daj  distil  it,  wA 
from  these  quantities  maj  be  drawn  off  two  gaUons.  Swtetes  it 
with  sugar  candj.     Keep  it  in  a  cool  place  in  bottles. 


[  1576. —  CHERRY   BRANDT. 

Choose  the  finest  morel  cherries  jou  can  obtain;  place  them  in 
layers  in  glass  jars,  strew  pounded  sugar  between  each  layer,  cotct 
them  with  brandy.  As  soon  as  the  cherries  have  imbibed  the 
brandy,  pour  in  more,  so  as  to  keep  them  constantly  covered. 


1577- — CHERRY  BRANDY  (bIJLCK). 

Pick  and  bruise  eight  pounds  of  black  maroons,  and  the  same 
quantity  of  small  black  cherries ;  let  them  stand  for  two  months  in  a 
cask  with  six  gallons  of  brandy,  two  pounds  of  crushed  sugar,  and  a 
quart  of  sack,  well  stirred  together.  At  the  end  of  that  time  it  may 
be  drawn  off  and  bottled. 


1578. CIRACOA. 

This  is  a  species  of  bitter  or  wild  orange,  of  which  the  rind  i* 
dried,  and  may  be  purchased  at  the  chemists'.  To  make  this  liqueur, 
wash  a  pound  of  curacoa  several  times  in  warm  water ;  then,  hiaring 
well  drained,  put  them  into  a  vessel  with  four  quarts  of  brandy  and 
one  of  water ;  let  it  stand  closely  covered  for  a  fortnight.  Shake  i^ 
frequently ;  distil  it  after  that  in  the  usual  way,  and  drain  tb^ 
curacoa  on  a  sieve.     Sweeten  with  five  pounds  and  a  half  of  sug^ 


iiqfmsxmB^  bevbraobs,  xra  S87 

■  ■     ■         ■     • C^ u 


diMOlTwim  Aiee  pints  of  water;  ndx  it  inth  tbe  i^nriA^Juid  them 
filter  it. 


1579. — OAPILLAIRX,  TO  MAKE. 

Tidee  fonrteen  {Kmnds  tyf  sngar,  three  pounds  of  tuaarm  si^ar,  six 
em  beaten  in  with  the  shells,  three  qnarts  of  water;  boil  it  up  twice; 
mm  it^well,  fhen  add  to  it  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  orange  flower  water; 
strain  it  throng^  a  jelly  bag,  and  put  it  into  bottles  when  cold ;  mix 
a  spoonful  or  two  of  this  S3rrup,  as  it  is  liked  for  sweetness,  in  a 
draught  of  warm  or  cold  water. 


1580.—- cApiLLAiRE — smup  or. 

Hie  capillaire  of  Canada,  althoush  that  of  Montpellier  is  equally 
good,  is  a  Tery  odoriferous  yeget2U)le,  light  and  agreeable,  but  so 
extremely  Tolatile  that  the  greatest  part  of  it  is  dissipated  during  the 
preparation  of  the  syrup.  To  preserve  then  the  odour  of  the  capil- 
laire, when  the  syrup  is  sufficiently  done,  pour  it  whilst  boiling,  upon 
some  fresh  ^sapillaire,  coarsely  chopped  up,  then  cover  your  vessel, 
and  let  it  stand  until  it  is  quite  cold,  then  pass  it  through  a  bolliz\g 
oloih  to  separate  it  from  the  leaves  of  the  c^illaire ;  take  one  ounce 
i£  file  capillaire  from  Canada,  put  it  into  a  glazed  pan,  pour  upon  it 
(Domt  pints  of  boiling  water,  leave  it  to  infuse  for  twelve  hours  over 
soote  warm  ashes,  strain  it,  and  let  it  run  into  a  vessel,  it  will  give 
you  a  strong  tincUire  of  capillare ;  melt  this  tincture  with  four  pounds 
of  sugar;  put  the  whole  into  a  preserving-pan,  and  put  it  on  the 
fire,  and  clarify  it  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  continue  the  cooking ; 
when  your  syrup  is  perle  put  some  fresh  capillaire  chopped,  ip to  a 
pan,  and  pour  your  syrup  whilst  boiling  upon  it,  cover  your  pan  care- 
fully, and  let  it  cool ;  when  your  syrup  is  cold  yon  may  flavour  it  if 
yoa  please.     Put  it  into  bottles,  and  cork  it  hermetically. 


1581. — CAUBLE. 

Make  a  fine  smooth  gmel  of  half  grits,  when  boiled,  strain  it,  stir 
it  at  times  till  cold;  when  wanted  for  use  add  sugar,  wine,  and  lemon 
peel,  with  some  nutmeg,  according  to  taste;  you  may  add  if  you 
please,  besides  tibe  wine,  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  or  lemon  juice. 


1582.— CAUDLE,  BBOWK. 

Boil  the  gruel  the  same  as  for  white  caudle,  with  six  spoonfuls  of 
oatmeal,  and  strain  it,  then  add  a  quart  of  good  ale,  not  bitter,  boil 
it,  then  sweeten  it  according  to  your  taste,  and  add  half  a  pint  of 
white  wine ;  when  you  do  not  put  in  the  white  wine  let  it  be  half 
ale. 


ISSS.^K'AUDLE,  WHITE. 

Mix  two  spoonfuls  of  oatmeal  in  a  quart  of  water,  with  a  blade  or 
two  of  mace,  and  a  piece  of  lemon  peel,  stir  it  often,  and  let  it  boil 

C  C  2 


388  LIQUEURS,  BEVEBAGESy   ETC. 

full  twenty  minutes,  strain  and  sweeten  it,  add  a  litde  white  winep 
nutmeg,  and  a  little  lemon  juice. 

1584. — HIPPOCBAS. 

Take  one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  two  drachms  of  ginger,  two  pennT- 
weights  of  cloyes,  nutmeg,  and  salingal,  a  pennyweight  of  eadL . 
Pound  these  together  well,  and  inrase  mem  in  a  pint  of  red  or  white 
wine,  and  a  pint  of  malmsey;  to  this  add  a  pound  of  the  hett  loaf 
sugar.    These  proportions  will  make  a  quart  of  the  liquor. 

1585.— H1PP0CRA8,   RED.  y' 

Pour  a  gallon  of  claret  into  an  earthen  pot ;  put  to  it  a  blade  of 
mace,  some  long  pepper,  four  grains  of  white  pepper,  a  drachm>  of 
cinnamon,  and  a  uttle  coriander  seed,  all  bruised  separately;  add  two 
pounds  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  dozen  sweet  almonds  pounded. 

1586. — ^HIPPOCBAS,  WHITB. 

Take  a  gallon  of  white  wine,  two  ounces  of  cinnamon,  two 
pounds  of  sugar,  a  little  maoe,  all  in  powder,  a  few  pepper  corns,  aad 
a  couple  of  lemons  cut  in  quarters.  When  these  have  been  infused 
some  time,  strain  it  three  or  four  times  through  a  jelly  bag.  Tluf 
liquor  may  be  flayoured  with  musk  or  ambergris,  by  ^ing  a  smaB 
quantity  of  either  drug  beaten  with  a  little  sugar  in  a  piece  of  clotl^ 
and  putting  it  into  the  bag  through  which  it  is  strainea. 


1587. — KIR8CHEN   WASSER. 

The  best  cherries  for  this  purpose  are  the  morel,  which  should  be 
taken  when  quite  ripe ;  take  oif  the  stalks  and  put  the  fruit  into  a 
tub.  Have  some  new  wood-ashes,  and  wet  them  so  as  to  make  a 
kind  of  mortar  of  them,  and  extend  it  over  the  cherries ;  these  ashes 
in  drying  form  a  complete  hard  crust,  and  thus  prevents  any  evapora- 
tion and  assists  the  fermentation.  Leave  the  fruit  thus  for  six 
weeks,  at  the  end  of  which  remove  the  ashes  and  take  out  the  pulp 
and  the  juice  of  the  cherries  immediately  under  it,  and  put  them  into 
the  crucible,  with  not  enough  to  fill  it,  and  distil  them.  The  fire 
during  the  operation  should  be  managed  with  great  care,  and  increase 
gradually  luitil  the  produce  of  your  distillation  flows  in  a  small 
stream,  and  ceases  the  instant  the  phlegm  begins  to  appear,  then 
throw  away  the  dregs  from  the  crucible  and  put  more  cherries  in 
and  distil  as  before. 


J  588. LEMONADE. 

Take  four  lemons,  pare  the  rind  as  thin  as  possible ;  squeeze  them 
into  a  quart  of  water,  add  half  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  let  it  stand  two 
or  three  hours,  and  pass  it  through  a  jelly  bag. 

1589. MARASCUINO. 

Take  sixteen  pounds  of  fine  sharp  cherries,  stone,  and  take  off  the 


LIQUEUBSy  BEVEKAOESy  ETC.  389 

Btallcs,  put  them  into  five  quarts  of  brandy  to  infuse,  covered  close 
for  three  dajs^  then  distil  the  infusion ;  distil  also  a  pound  of  cheny- 
leayes  in  six  quarts  of  filtered  river  water,  from  which  you  will 
obtain  about  a  gallon;  dissolve  in  this  four  pounds  and  a  half  of  fine 
sugar,  add  it  to  the  liquor,  with  two  pints  and  a  half  of  kirschen 
wasser,  an  ounce  and  iour  drachms  of  spirits  of  roses,  the  same  of 
orange  flowers,  and  three  drachms  of  spirits  of  jessamine;  mix  them 
altogether,  run  it  through  a  jelly  bag  and  bottle  it.    Cork  them  well. 


1590. — MEAD. 

To  every  gallon  of  water  put  four  pounds  of  honey ;  boil  it  an 
hour;  then  put  it  into  a  tub  with  some  yeast  on  a  toast;  cover  it 
over.  If  it  ferments  well,  after  three  or  four  days  draw  it  off  dear, 
put  it  into  a  cask  with  one  lemon  sliced  to  every  gallon,  add  a  bottle 
of  brandy  to  every  ten  gallons.  The  rind  of  Seville  oranges  cut  very 
thin,  suspended  in  the  barrel,  will  greatly  improve  the  flavour.  It  is 
best  to  wash  the  cask  round  with  part  of  the  brandy  before  the  liquor 
is  put  in.  Those  who  like  mead  to  have  an  aromatic  flavour,  may 
mix  with  it  elder,  rosemary,  marjoram  flowers,  and  use  cinnamon, 
doves,  ginger,  pepper,  and  cardamums  in  various  proportions, 
according  to  taste.  Others  put  in  a  mixture  of  thyme,  eglantine, 
rosemary,  marjoram,  with  various  spices. 


1591. MEAD    iHONTINIAC. 

Ten  pounds  of  honey,  ten  pounds  of  the  best  raisins,  and  ten  gallons 
of  water ;  boil  about  ten  minutes,  keeping  well  skimmed,  put  it  into 
a  vessel  to  work;  put  to  it  the  fifth  of  a  pint  of  ale  yeast,  letting  it 
work  until  the  yeast  begins  to  fall ;  when  taken  clear  off  turn  it  with 
the  raisins,  and  throw  into  the  cask  the  fifth  of  a  quart  of  elder 
flowers ;  attend  to  it  as  the  weather  changes ;  let  it  remain  in  the 
cask  twelve  months,  fine  it  then  with  wine  finings  and  bottle  it. 


1592. — MEAD   SACK. 

To  every  gallon  of  water  put  four  pounds  of  honey,  and  boil  it 
three  quarters  of  an  hour,  carefully  skimming  it.  To  every  gallon 
add  one  ounce  of  hops,  then  boil  it  half  an  hour,  then  let  it  stand 
imtil  the  following  day:   then  put  it  into  a  cask,  and  to  thirteen 

Sllons  of  the  liquor  add  a  quart  of  brandy.     Stop  it  slightly  until 
e  fermentation  is  over,  then  stop  it  very  close.     If  you  make  a 
laige  cask,  keep  it  in  the  cask  for  twelve  months. 


1593. NOYEAU. 

Two  gallons  of  gin,  two  pounds  of  bitter  almonds,  one  pound  of 
sweet  almonds ;  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  and  beat  to  a  fine  paste ; 
six  pounds  of  powdered  sugar  (mix  some  with  the  almonds);  let 
these  stand  ten  days  in  the  gin ;  filter  through  blotting  paper,  and 
bottle  it. 


\ 


i90  LIQU£U&a»  B£Y£KAG£9t  £XG« 


1594.— OfiAMGfiADB. 

Squeeze  the  juice ;  pour  some  boiling  water  en  l9ie  j^l,  corer  it 
dosely,  boil  water  and  susar  to  a  thin  syrup  and  slcnii  it ;  wlien  all 
are  cold  mix  the  juice,  ue  infusion,  and  ihe  sjrm,  with  tm  mmsk 
water  as  will  make  a  rich  sherbet,  strain  through  a  jeDj  hag. 

1595. — ^PABFAIT  AMOUK. 

Take  four  fine  cedrats,  pare  thin,  infuse  with  half  an  ounce  of 
cinnamon,  and  four  ounces  of  coriander,  and  three  gallons  of  strong 
brandy,  and  a  quart  of  water,  for  a  week  or  ten  days,  when  distil  it 
in  the  bain  marie ;  this  quantity  of  brandy,  if  good^  will  yield  two 
gallons  and  half  a  pint  of  spirit,  Dissolre  ^ree  pounds  and  a  half 
of  sugar  in  seven  pints  of  riyer  water,  colour  it  with  cochinedi,  tlwi 
add  it  to  the  spirit ;  filt^^  and  bottle  it 


1596. — ^PTTNCH. 

Take  a  very  sound  lemon,  rub  the  rind  on  a  piece  of  fine  sugar 
about  half  a  pound,  upon  this  sugar  pour  half  a  pint  of  string 
green  tea  boiUng  hot,  a  little  syrup  of  capillaire,  the  juice  of  two 
lemons  strained ;  to  these  add  a  quart  of  brandy.  Set  the  whok 
on  fire,  agitate  the  fiame  with  the  punch  ladle,  and  when  the  liquor 
is  reduced  one  third  extinguish  it,  and  pour  the  hot  punch  into 
glasses.  By  the  introduction  of  other  articles  such  as  arrack,  cham- 
pagne," &c.,  to  the  aboye,  it  is  called  arrack  punch,  champagne 
punch,  &c. 

1597.— PUNCH. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  six  fine  lemons  through  a  sieve  into  a  china 
bowl ;  grate  some  lemon  peel  on  a  piece  of  sugar,  scrape  off  the 
surface  as  it  becomes  yellow,  and  dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  lemon 
juice;  then  pour  in  a  bottle  of  champagne,  the  same  of  rum,  a 
bottle  of  brandy,  and  a  little  green  tea;  dilute  these  ingredients  with 
hot  water  at  discretion.  The  quantity  of  sugar  must  be  also  regulated 
according  to  taste. 


1598. PUNCH,    MILK. 

Fill  a  bottle  as  full  as  possible  of  lemon-peel,  and  then  add  as  much 
brandy  as  it  will  admit;  let  this,  corked,  stand  in  the  sun  two  or  three 
days ;  then  mix  with  the  brandy,  having  poured  it  out,  two  pounds 
of  sugar,  two  quarts  of  water,  four  of  brandy,  two  of  boiling  milk, 
boiled  with  spice,  and  about  a  pint  of  lemon  juice;  when  this  is 
cold  strain  it  till  quite  clear,  and  bottle  it  instantly. 

1599. — PUNCH,    BUM   MILK,    FOR   TURTLE   SOUP. 

Put  the  seeds  of  thirty  lemons  pared  thin  into  two  quarts  of 
rum ;  let  it  stand  three  days ;  then  take  three  quarts  of  water,  one 
quart  of  lemon  juice,  three  quarts  of  rum,  four  pounds  or  perhaps 
a  little  more  of  lump  sugar,  and  two  nutmegs  grated;  mix  all 


LlQUEITBSjr  BETHRAfiOCS,  ETC.  391: 

together,  and  lastly  add  two  quarts  of  nevt  milk  boiling.  Let  the 
whole  stand  one  night,  then  run  it  through  a  jellj  bag  until  quito 
clear,  then  bottle  for  use« 

1600. — ^RATAFIA  OF  FOUR  FBU1T8. 

Ten  pounds  of  yery  ripe  cherries,  two  pounds  and  a  half  of 
nurobemes,  five  pounds  and  a  half  of  red,  and  two  pounds  and  a  half 
of  bla(;k  currants ;  pick  and  mix  these  fruits  together,  press  the  juice' 
from  them,  measure  it,  and  for  ererj  quart  of  juice  take  half  a  pound 
of  sugar  and  an  equal  quantity  of  brandy ;  dissolve  the  sugar  in  the 
juice,  then  nut  in  the  brandy,  and  a  drachm  of  mace,  and  two 
drachms  of  doves.  Let  the  whole  stand  some  time;  filter,  and  bottle 
it     Keep  them  well  corked. 

1601.— RATAFIA  OF  SEEDS. 

Take  three  drachms  of  each  of  the  following  seeds :  anise, 
cummin,  fennel,  dill,  coriander,  carraway,  and  angelica;  bruise,  and 
infuse  them  for  a  month  in  a  gallon  of  brandy.  Dissolve  two  pounds 
of  sugar  in  a  pint  of  water;  sdd  this  syrup  at  the  end  of  the  above 
mentioned  time  to  the  infusion,  then  filter  and  bottle  it. 


1602. — RATAFIA  WITHOUT  SUGAR  OR  SYRUP. 

Press  the  juice  from  some  cherries  into  a  pan,  and  leave  it  a 
quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  put  it  in  a  laree  bottle  with  the  kernels, 
and  also  some  apricot  kernels :  to  this  add,  if  you  wish  the  ratafia 
to  be  a  deep  colour,  the  juice  of  two  or  three  pounds  of  black 
cherries.  Put  to  your  juice  half  or  a  third  of  its  quantity  of  best 
brandy,  then  bottle  it,  and  when  the  fermentation  has  ceased  cork 
the  bottles.     If  the  air  is  excluded,  this  ratafia  will  keep  for  many 


1803. SHRUB. 

To  a  gallon  of  rum  add  a  quart  of  Seville  orange  juice,  with  three 
pounds  of  lump  sugar,  and  a  handful  of  the  peel  pared  extremely 
thin ;  let  it  stand  in  a  cask  for  three  months,  then  filter  it  through  a 
cloth  and  bottle  it. 


1604. SHRUB,    ANOTHER    RECEIPT. 

Strain  a  quart  of  oranjje  juice,  put  to  it  two  pounds  of  lump  sugar, 
four  quarts  and  one  pint  of  rum ;  put  half  the  peels  of  the  oranges  into 
the  rum,  let  it  stand  one  night,  then  mix  the  rum  with  the  orange 
juice  and  the  sugar,  and  put  it  into  a  vessel  which  has  a  spigot; 
shake  it  four  or  five  times  daily  until  the  sugar  is  all  dissolved;  when 
it  is  clear,  which  may  be  in  about  a  fortnight,  bottle  it  for  use.  If 
the  oranges  arc  very  ripe,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  will  be  enough. 


1605. SHERBET. 

That  usually  sold  for  this  compound  is  composed  of  tartaric  or 


392  LIQUEUBS,  BEYBRAOESy  ETC. 

citric  acid,  carbonate  of  soda,  and  finely  powdered  loaf  sngir 
flavoured  with  some  essential  oil,  such  as  lemon  or  orange  in  tiie 
following  proportions : — Three  ounces  and  a  half  of  soda,  two 
ounces  and  a  half  of  tartaric  acid,  and  twelve  ounces  of  finely 
powdered  loaf  sugar,  mixed  well  in  a  mortar  with  sufficient 
essential  oil  to  flavour  it,  the  whole  is  then  most  intimately  mixed 
together  and  put  into  bottles  to  be  kept  close  stopped  for  use,  two 
or  three  tea-spoonfuls  are  sufficient  for  half  a  pint  of  water. 


1606. — ^VAKILLA,  CREME   OF. 

Dissolve  over  the  fire  two  pounds  ten  ounces  of  broken  sugar  in 
ihree  pints  of  purified  river  water ;  when  it  is  boiled  up  once,  pour 
it  into  a  jar  on  three  drachms  of  vaniUa  cut  in  pieces,  and  half  a 
grain  of  amber.  When  quite  cold  add  three  pints  of  good  brandy, 
cover  the  vessel,  and  when  it  has  infused  six  days  colour  it  with  a 
little  prepared  cochineal;  filter,  and  bottle  the  liquor.  Cork  the 
bottles  tight,  and  seal  the  corks. 


]  6O7. — ^VESPETKO. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  each  of  the  following  seeds :— ^mgeliea, 
coriander,  fennel,  and  carrawav,  the  rinds  of  four  lemons,  and  as 
many  oranges,  infuse  all  these  in  two  gallons  and  a  half  of  ihe  best 
brandy,  close  the  vessel  hermetically.  Five  days'  time,  distil  it  in  flue 
bain  marie  alembic,  and  draw  from  the  above  quantity  five  quarts  of 
liquor.  Dissolve  seven  pounds  of  sugar  in  a  gallon  of  pure  river 
water ;  add  this  syrup  to  the  liquor,  filter,  and  Mttle  it. 


1608. — WHOLESOME  BBVEBAOE. 

From  half  a  pint  to  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  boiled,  to  which  is 
added  a  tea-spoonful  of  curry  powder  and  sugar  to  taste ;  drunk 
warm  it  will  be  found  a  grateful  beverage  for  those  of  weak  bowek, 
and  who  may  require  to  go  abroad  on  very  cold  raw  mornings 
before  breakfast,  and  will  be  much  better,  nay  entirely  supersede, 
the  use  of  ardent  spirits. 


BBBWIKO.  393 


CHAPTER  XXV. 

BBEwnro. 

Much  rery  bad  beer  is  made  in  families  where  there  is  no  sparing 
of  materials,  for  the  want  of  management  and  economy ;  attention 
should  be  paid  to  the  state  of  the  utensils  used,  and  all  necessary 
preparations  made  the  day  before  the  brewing  is  commenced ;  let 
the  water  be  heated  in  the  copper  the  day  before,  that  it  may  be 
well  cleansed,  also  cleanse  the  casks,  mash  tubs,  coolers,  &c. 
When  this  is  all  done  fill  your  copper,  and  have  everything  in 
readiness  for  the  next  morning;  the  quantity  of  malt  for  strong 
beer  must  be  ten  bushels  to  the  hogshead,  for  ale  nine  bushels  to 
the  hogshead ;  the  copper  for  making  a  hogshead  of  beer  or  ale, 
should  contain  full  seventy  gallons,  because  the  hogshead  of  beer 
measure  holds  sixty-three  gallons,  and  there  should  be  the  surplus 
measure  allowed  for  the  hops,  and  the  working  them  about  to 
advantage  when  the  water  boils,  to  prevent  waste.  With  this 
copper,  four  boilings  will  afford  two  hogsheads  of  strong  beer  or 
table  ale,  or  two  of  table  beer.  The  malt  should  be  ground  four  or 
five  days  before  use,  and  be  kept  very  clean.  The  ingredients  being 
ready,  the  water  must  be  made  to  boil  quickly,  which  done,  the 
copper  fire  must  be  then  damped.  The  malt  having  been  previously 
pat  in  the  mashing  tub,  reserving  half  a  bushel,  as  soon  as  the 
steam  from  the  boiUng  water  begins  to  subside,  the  water  is  poured 
upon  it  to  wet  the  malt,  so  as  to  render  it  fit  to  be  mashed,  it 
should  then  remain  covered  over  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  when 
more  water  is  added,  and  it  is  mashed  as  before ;  let  it  stand  for  a 
few  minutes,  and  then  add  the  whole  quantity  of  water^  according 
as  it  is  intended  to  have  the  beer  more  or  less  strong.  Whilst  the 
water  is  lading  on,  the  mash  must  be  kept  stirring  with  a  pole. 
When  well  mashed  run  the  big  end  of  the  masli  on  through  the 
middle  of  it  to  give  it  air,  then  put  the  spare  half  bushel  of  malt 
over  the  mash  and  cover  the  tub  over  with  sacks  to  keep  the  steam 
and  spirit  of  the  malt  in,  and  let  it  remain  two  hours ;  then  let  it  run 
into  the  receiver  and  mash  again  for  the  second  wort  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  first,  excepting  that  the  water  must  be  cooler,  and  it 
must  not  stand  more  than  half  the  time.  Both  these  worts  are 
mixed  together,  and  the  quantity  of  hops  intended  are  added,  when 
the  liquor  must  be  put  into  the  copper,  which  being  closely  covered, 
let  it  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  then  let  the  liquor  into  the  receiver 


t5«r4  BAJSvrxWCra 

and  the  hops  be  strained  therefrom  into  the  coolers.  When  cool  the 
yeast,  which  should  be  white  and  sweet,  is  added,  and  the  liquor  weE 
stirred  from  the  bottom  with  a  wooden  bowl,  turning  it  topsy-turyy 
in  the  middle  of  each  tub,  which  causes  the  beer  to  ferment ;  if  it 
happens  that  in  about  two  hours  the  fermentation  is  not  favourable 
it  has  been  checked,  in  which  case  put  the  mash-oar,  &c.,  across  the 
tubs,  and  cover  them  with  sacks  to  encourage  the  fermentation, 
when  the  last  thing  at  night  and  the  first  thing  in  the  morning, 
should  be  the  stirring  them  well  up  again.  Be  careful  that  the 
tubs  be  not  too  full  to  work  over  in  the  night.  The  next  morning 
skim  the  greater  part  of  the  yeast  off,  and  prepare  to  tun  it.  Let 
the  casks  be  taken  clean  and  warm  into  the  cellars,  which  promotei 
the  beer  working ;  it  is  best  to  put  a  gallon  of  boiling  ^vater  ir-  and 
tip  it  out  again.  Examine  the  cork  and  vent  holes,  and  when  the 
ctsks  are  filled  reserve  some  sparo  beer,  that  as  it  works  ytm  may 
fill  the  casks  up  for  the  waste ;  as  soon  as  full  take  two  poundi  of 
fiour  and  beat  it  up  smooth  with  some  of  the  new  beer  in  a  pail 
with  a  wisp,  and  divide  it  between  the  two  casks,  keep  il  wd 
stirred  up  from  the  bottom  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  The  iloar 
thus  prepared,  gives  to  the  beer  and  ale  a  fine  soft  quality,  and 
while  imder  fermentation  adds  to  its  flavour.  When  this  flour  is  pvt 
into  the  casks  each  should  be  stirred  with  a  long  stick  for  a  few 
minuter,  then  put  the  tin  scoop  ipto  the  upper  cork-bole  for  the 
beer  to  work  through,  and  attend  to  it  three  or  four  times  a  day,  par* 
ticnlarly  the  last  thing  at  night  and  the  first  thing  in  the  momiagv 
and  when  the  fermentation  is  done  working,  which  is  usually  iB 
three  or  four  days,  clean  the  casks  outside  and  put  in  the  beer  the 
hops  saved  in  the  pail,  equally  divided  into  both,  stirring  them  about, 
this  operation  fines  all  beers ;  then  bung  them  tight  down  with  a 
piece  of  coarse  linen  under  the  bung,  if  done  working,  not  else. 

For  small  or  table  beer  there  must  be  a  third  mashing.  Preserve 
a  pail  full  of  the  strong  beer  to  add  to  the  small,  let  the  water,  when 
within  a  few  minutes  of  boiling,  be  poured  on  the  malt,  keeping  it 
mashed  as  before,  then  add  the  pail  of  strong  and  cover  it  over  wiA 
sacks  as  before  mentioned,  with  the  mash-oar  standing  iii  the 
middle,  and  let  it  remain  an  hour.  Then  fill  the  copper  with  tiie 
liquor  and  let  it  boil  for  an  hour  gently;  the  same  preparation  ef 
flour  and  beer  should  be  added  to  the  table  beer. 

For  good  strong  beer  or  ale  and  of  a  fine  flavour,  there  should  be 
allowed  one  pound  of  hops  for  every  bushel  of  malt  Hops  that 
are  good  and  free  from  adulteration,  should  be  of  a  fine  sweet 
smell,  full  of  ripe  seed  of  a  clear  pale  yellow  colour  and  clammy* 
which  evinces  their  strength ;  such  an  article  ameliorates  and 
preserves  all  beer ;  the  best  hops  arc  grown  in  Kent.  The  great 
secret  of  fining  all  beers  to  render  them  of  a  clear  bright  colour,  is 
to  take  out  three  quarters  of  a  pailful  of  the  hops  from  the  copper 
when  they  have  boiled  an  hour,  for  this  simple  method  is  superior,  and 
more  congenial  to  all  beer  than  all  the  arts  that  are  practised.  If,  how- 
ever, beer  remains  stubborn  either  from  bad  cellars,  or  bad  hops,  or  bad 
management,  then  in  order  to  make  beer  clear  or  fine,  isinglass  may 
be  used,  which  may  be  thus  prepared:  if  for  fining  a  hogshead,  take 


BKKWmCL  395 


a  quarter  of  a  poaiid  of  isinglass,  and  put  it  into  a  quart  of  the 
liquor  drawn  from  the  casks,  and  let  it  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  for 
half  an  kour  in  a  clear  vessel ;  pour  this  into  a  can  of  the  beer,  aiMl 
vat  it  into  the  cask  stirring  it  witii  a  long  stick  for  a  quarter  of  an 
iowty  and  six  hours  after  bung  the  cask  close  down ;  it  is  a  bad 
plan  to  put  raw  hops  into  beer,  as  they  are  iqpt  to  become  mustj. 
Beers  are  frequently  sick  and  out  of  condition ;  when  this  happens 
they  should  again  be  put  into  a  new  fermentation,  then  balls  made 
of  a  pound  of  flour  mixed  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  treacle,  wiU 
promote  their  briskness^  this  composition  softens  all  beers  to  the 
greatest  advantage. 

1609. — BFBTON   AXE. 

For  making  Burton  or  rich  Welsh  ales  instead  of  boiling  the 
wcort  two  hours  let  it  boil  only  one,  but  without  ceasing  for  the 
whole  time.  Have  ready  six  pounds  of  treacle  which  must  be 
thrown  into  the  copper,  this  adds  to  the  strength  of  the  malt,  and 
gives  great  richness  to  the  flavour  of  the  ale ;  the  liquor  must  be 
kept  well  stirred  up  the  whole  time  and  most  from  the  bottom ;  but 
as  this  is  not  brewed  for  keeping,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  hops 
to  every  bushel  of  malt  will  be  sufficient.  Before  it  is  tapped,  which 
may  be  done  in  three  or  four  months,  fine  it  as  before  with  the  hops, 
when  it  will  be  found  to  possess  that  rich  flavour  for  which  Burton 
and  Welsh  ales  are  so  much  liked.  This  has  frequently  been  brewed 
in  the  early  part  of  March,  and  drunk  to  perfection  the  latter  end  of 
the  June  following;  all  well  brewed  ales  and  beer  are  good  and  ripe 
at  three  or  four  months. 


1610. — EDIMBUBGR   OAT  ALES 

Should  be  made  from  the  best  white  heavy  sweet  oat  made  into 
malt,  the  same  as  barley  is.  The  Scotch  oats  are  preferred,  and  the 
ale  made  from  them  are  said  to  be  of  a  soft  healing  quality  and  is 
of  great  repute  in  England,  where  it  is  not  common.  Though  this 
ale  req«res  a  greater  quantity  of  malt,  it  is  brewed  at  a  less  price 
than  others,  as  ten  bushels  will  make  a  hogshead  of  fifty-four  gallons 
rick  aad  soft,  as  no  table  beer  is  taken  from  it.  In  four  or  six  montha 
it  will  be  fit  for  use ;  it  must  be  brewed,  hopped,  &c.  in  the  same 
manner  as  Welsh  ales ;  some  persons  who  grow  their  own  oats 
make  this  ale  with  a  part  oat  malt  and  a  part  barley  malt. 


1611. — PORTER. 

It  is  generally  held  that  porter  to  be  good  must  be  brewed 
in  large  quantities  —  this  is  a  great  error.  Excellent  porter 
may  be  brewed  in  private  families,  and  by  proper  management  so 
ordered,  that  ample  time  between  each  brewing  may  be  allowed  for 
it  to  refine  for  use ;  those  families  who  are  in  the  habit  of  brewing 
strong  beers  may  also  add  porter  to  their  stock. 

The  brewing  of  porter  is  nearly  by  the  same  process  as  brewing 
ale,  the  mash  must  be  made  of  a  fine  high  dried  sweet  full  malt— 


396  BBEWINO. 


which  is  cheaper  than  the  pale  malt  used  for  brewing  the  ttraig 
ale  and  beer — and  full  fine  sweet  brown  hops.  It  is  not  necetmj 
for  a  porter  brewer  to  give  a  high  price  per  hundred  weight  fcr 
colour  and  appearance  in  hops,  when  id  actual  strength  they  may 
be  thirty  per  cent,  inforior  for  his  purpose,  such  bright  bops  bebg 
only  for  delicate  ales. 

A  species  of  hop  well  adapted  for  this  purpose  is  met  with  in 
Kent,  it  is  produced  by  the  plant,  Humtdus  Germanicus;  these 
hops  are  best  for  tbis  purpose,  because  time  should  be  giren  them 
to  mellow,  and  the  full  bitter  requisite  will  belong  to  them,  if  kepi 
The  necessary  bitter  cannot  be  extracted  from  &e  new  hop  widi- 
out  a  harsh  unpleasantness ;  good  brewers — those  who  brew  on  a 
large  scale — give  their  hops  eight  or  twelve  months'  age,  and  then 
they  work  eight  or  ten  pounds  of  hops  per  quarter  of  malt. 

When  the  wort  and  hops  are  boiling,  for  every  hogshead  hun 
ready  to  put  to  it  one  pound  of  bruised  liquorice  root  cut  shoft,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  Spanish  liquorice,  and  six  pounds  of  ooane 
brown  sugar,  or  the  same  in  treacle,  and  the  same  in  proportion  for 
every  cask,  be  carefol  to  put  in  these  ingredients  when  the  wort  and 
hops  are  boiling,  and  let  them  boil  gently  for  two  hours  keeping  the 
liquor  well  stirred  from  the  sides  and  bottom  the  whole  time,  then 
strain  the  hops  off  and  put  it  in  the  coolers,  the  same  as  for  other 
beers.  Put  into  some  of  the  worthwhile  warm  half  a  pound  of  moist 
sugar,  boil  this  in  an  iron  pot  till  it  becomes  a  thick  black  liquid,  and 
then  add  before  it  is  cold  a  pint  of  the  warm  porter ,'^with  a  spoonfol 
of  salt  of  steel,  and  mix  them  well  together,  this  is  what  the  porter 
brewers  call  colour,  and  it  is  in  quality  between  a  bitter  and  sweet 
which  gives  to  the  liquor  a  fine  mellow  taste  and  colour  so  much 
admired  in  good  porter;  in  six  months  it  is  fit  for  use,  and  will  have 
a  fine  head,  as  no  table  beer  is  required  from  this  eight  bushels  of 
malt  eight  pounds  of  hops  will  be  sufiicient. 

1612. BBOWN    STOUT. 

To  brew  brown  stout,  porter,  or  strong  beer,  to  go  abroad,  allow 
ten  bushels  to  the  hogshead,  and  if  intended  for  hot  climates, 
fourteen  pounds  of  hops,  good,  strong,  perfectly  sweet,  and  full  of 
seed.  All  malt  liquor  that  is  brewed  for  long  voyages  at  sea  should 
be  quite  ripe  and  fine  before  it  is  put  on  board,  and  should  be  sent 
in  the  cask  it  is  tunned  in,  a  thirty-six  gallon  cask  or  barrel  is  the 
most  convenient  size  for  ship  board.  For  sea  voyages  too,  in  lieu  of 
vent  pegs,  vent  nails  should  be  procured  from  the  ironmongers,  for 
they  shift  up  and  down  of  themselves,  as  the  beer  requires.  After 
the  porter  is  fined  in  the  manner  of  other  beers  with  good  hops,  to 
make  it  carry  a  good  head  lower  the  hand  in  drawing  it  some 
distance  from  the  cock,  and  let  it  run  down  the  side  of  the  tankard, 
leaving  lip  room  on  the  top.  If  families  would  have  good  casks  and 
of  a  uniform  size,  none  are  more  durable  than  the  iron  bound  rum 
puncheons  which  generally  hold  about  one  hundred  and  twenty 
gallons  which  is  nearly  two  hogsheads  beer  measure,  and  may  be 
bought  of  any  of  the  great  dealers  in  Jamaica  rum  and  at  a  fair 
price.  These  with  care  and  particularly  if  painted  in  oil  colour,  will 


BBEWINO.  397 


stmany  years.  If  new  casks  be  purchased,  those  of  the  bell  shape 
!«  preferred.  All  new  casks  must  be  filled  with  fresh  cold  water, 
id  left  to  stand  three  or  four  days,  and  then  well  scalded  before 
Mr  is  put  in  them.  In  cleaning  casks  they  must  be  washed  with 
>Id  water,  and  nothing  is  more  efficacious  and  searching  in  getting 
le  dirt  out  of  all  coolers,  casks,  &c.  than  a  lump  of  unslacked  lime 
at  into  the  water;  when  well  soaked  they  must  be  well  scrubbed 
ad  cleaned  with  a  birch  broom.  If  the  casks  should  happen  to 
ecome  musty  employ  a  cooper  to  unhead  them  and  bum  them  out. 
lb  soon  as  a  cask  becomes  empty,  stop  up  bung,  and  yent,  and  cork- 
ole  tight,  which  will  be  the  means  of  keeping  them  sweet.  The 
ips  should  be  taken  from  the  empty  cask  and  immediately  cleaned, 
calded  with  boiling  water,  and  put  away  in  a  dry  place.  Hops  of 
very  kind  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place.  The  hops  that  are  intended 
>  be  used  when  brewing  should  be  wetted  thus : — Let  the  tub  stand 
nder  the  cock  of  the  copper,  which  half  turned  enables  you  to  wet 
hem  g^radually.  They  should  be  rubbed  through  the  hands  to  separate 
bem  and  break  the  lumps.  To  cleanse  musty  casks  dissolve  a  pound 
f  bay  salt  and  half  a  pound  of  alum  in  water,  then  add  as  much 
inng  from  a  milking  cow  as  will  make  it  thick,  not  more  so  than 
Fill  allow  it  to  pass  through  a  funnel ;  place  it  on  a  fire  and  stir  it 
rith  a  stick  till  it  nearly  boils,  then  put  it  into  the  cask,  bung  it 
lose,  and  shake  it  about  for  a  few  minutes  and  let  it  remain  two 
tonn,  then  take  out  the  bung  and  let  the  vapour  escape,  fasten  it 
lown  again,  give  it  another  shaking  and  let  it  remain  two  hours 
acre.  After  this,  cleanse  the  cask  thoroughly  with  cold  water,  not 
easing  till  it  becomes  quite  clean  and  untainted.  This  done,  have 
eady  a  liquor  made  with  half  a  pound  of  bay  salt  and  two  ounces 
»f  alum  boiled  in  water,  wash  the  cask  well  with  this  and  cleanse 
he  cask  as  before  with  water,  after  which  the  cask  will  be  fit  for 
ise. 


1613. — THE   CELLAR. 

A  good  brewer,  cellarman,  &c.,  will  take  delight  in  a  well  ordered 
iellar,  attention  must  be  paid  to  cleanliness,  both  in  his  person  and 
lusiness ;  everything  in  the  cellar  should  be  kept  in  due  order.  The 
>rewer  or  cellarman  to  the  gentleman  who  keeps  a  large  establish- 
nent  should  occupy  himself  every  morning  in  the  cellars,  the 
bUowing  duties  are  incumbent : — 

During  the  summer  months  have  the  beer  cellar  and  steps  clean 
nrashed  weekly,  and  particularly  imder  the  casks,  empty  the  top 
;asks  daily  into  a  cask  kept  for  the  purpose  of  holding  the  slops 
ind  grounds,  for  the  cellar  should  on  opening  it  smell  pure  and 
sweet ;  by  attention  to  these  offices  the  cellar  is  not  only  pleasant  to 
mter,  but  the  beer  is  kept  fine  and  cool  during  the  summer  months, 
whereas  by  inattention  a  dirty  cellar  will  cause  the  beer  to  turn  sour; 
luring  the  winter  months,  scraping  and  sweeping  the  cellar  once  a 
week  will  be  sufficient,  observe  all  cellars  in  the  winter  cannot  be  kept 
boo  warm  and  close,  for  without  attention  on  this  point  the  liquors 
cannot  thrive.   The  following  articles  should  be  provided  to  a  cellar 


298  BSLKWtSa. 

in  a  large  establlshaent^  tkose  families  who  brew  on  a 
scale  will  apply  these  uses  acoording  to  their  proportioMite  oo»- 
-renience.  Proper  shot  and  lead  canisters  with  holes  in  bottom,  sd 
two  cloths  to  wash  bottles,  to  be  kept  in  the  bottle  rack.    Two  ishi 
to  wash  bottles  in«  and  a  form  for  them  to  stand  o<k     Six  stana 
cocks,  bungs,  corks,  yent  pegs,  and  a  mallet|  a  pair  of  pliers  to  4mr 
pegs,  and  cork  drawer.  A  leather  tboot  to  buckle  on  the  knee  to  emr 
tain  the  bottles  when  corking  them,  for  if  the  bottle  breaks  the  boot 
saves  the  liquor.  A  strong  heavy  mahogany  cork  driver.   Six  atnog 
prickles  to  be  kept  in  a  dry  place.    Coarse  linen  to  put  under  thi 
bungs,  the  old  hop  sacks  wul  serve.     Six  tin  spouts  the  sin  of  a 
beer  cock  made  at  the  lower  end  as  broad  as  the  banker's  shovel  it 
the  bottom  for  the  beer  to  work  through  from  the  top  oork  hole, 
with  brown  paper  round  the  top.    A  strong  iron  skewer  to  nise 
bimgs  with.     A  middle  sioed  coopers'  gimblet,  the  siae  of  tiie  muU 
spigots  and  faucets.  A  quire  of  strong  brown  paper  to  put  round  taps, 
and  another  to  make  hop  bags  with.  Two  large  sponges  to  clean  the 
outsides  of  the  casks.     A  pair  of  slings  to  grapple  the  casks  witli, 
to  take  into  the  cellars,  for  rolling  them  will  cause  dirt  to  hang  aboit 
them.     A  pair  of  strong  folding  steps.     Half  a  dozen  mahogany 
spigots  and  faucets  about  the  size  of  the  little  finger  to  be  had  ix 
the  best  turner's,  being  much  better  than  pegs,  which  are  wastefSnlt 
to  try  all  liquors  whether  they  are  fine.    A  strong  hamaier  and  inm 
driver  such  as  the  coopers  use  to  drive  down  the  hoops  which  hafs 
loosened  from  tubs  and  casks.     Two  split  sticks  for  cellar  caadle- 
sticks.  Six  iron  bound  tap  tubs  and  a  brush  to  clean  them  with.  A 
whisk  for  the  yeast  wine  finings.  A  six  gallon  tub  for  the  yeast,  and 
pour  the  beer  from  it  daily,  then  whisk  the  yeast  up  in  the  tub  sad 
it  will  be  fit  for  use.     Delf  labels  to  hang  on  the  tops  of  the  liquor 
bins,  as  claret,  champaigne,  sherry,  calcavella,  porter,  cider,  peny, 
port,  rhenish,  &c.    A  pewter  crane  and  valench.  Four  or  six  ice  paOf 
for  wines,  in  summer.     A  wine  basket  made  to  hold  the  bottles  that 
are  crusted  on  their  sides,  to  bring  from  the  cellar  in  that  position. 
A  raising  jack  to  raise  wines  in  casks  upon  their  stands.     A  pulley 
and  ropes  to  let  wines  and  liquor  down  into  the  cellar.  A  wine  bit  of 
various  sizes  to  bore  the  casks  with.    A  fiogger  to  beat  up  the  wise 
bungs  with.  Two  strong  pails.   A  Gunter's  gauge  rule.  A  stamped 
bushel  measure  to  measure  the  malt  with.    A  strike.   A  small  cq>- 
per  adze.     A  pair  of  stilyards  or  scales  to  weigh  the  hops  witL 
fetamped  lead  or  iron  weights  to  be  kept  dry.  Two  tin  funnels  to  pat 
into  bottles  when  bottling  oS,  A  large  wood  ditto  for  all  beers.  Two 
low  stools  to  sit  on.    A  leather  apron  with  a  pocket  before  for  pegs, 
and  bib  to  button  up  on  the  waistcoat.  A  flannel  bag  with  hoop  on 
top  made  as  a  jelly  bag  to  run  the  lees  of  all  wines  through.    A 
common  cork  screw.     An  iron-bound  wine-can  for  fining  wines  in. 
A    hoc.    A  spade.    Six  stifl*  birch  brooms,  and  the  same  number  of 
strong  rag  mops.     The  use  of  the  iron  skewer  is  to  raise  up  the 
bimg  by  degrees  first  giving  it  vent 

Have  a  large  cupboard  made  and  fixed  in  the  cellar  or  near  it,  in 
a  dry  spot,  to  hold  most  of  the  small  tools,  so  that  everything  may 
be  at  hand  when  wanted. 


BRSWIKCk  399 


1614. — lOLLT. 

In  choosing  the  malt,  take  care  that  it  is  not  peat  or  straw  dried^ 
and  procure  it  of  a  pale  colour,  for  thej  are  the  best  of  all  malts 
and  more  balsamic,  also  soft  and  smooth  and  highly  agreeable  to 
the  taste  ;  malt  should  not  be  ground  too  fine,  but  on  the  contrary, 
broken  or  made  into  «  coarse  meal.  Good  maU  is  known  by  a 
simple  test,  namely,  by  chewing  it,  fbr  if  well  made  it  will  be 
nearly  as  sweet  as  sugar,  deKghtful  to  the  smell,  of  a  mellow 
flaTOur,  round  body,  and  thin  shin. 


1615. — ^Hops. 

When  hops  are  purchased,  let  them  be  not  packed  too  loose  in 
the  bags,  for  that  does  them  no  good.  Be  careful  that  all  things 
belonging  to  the  beer-house  be  never  used  for  anything  else,  for  if 
any  grease  or  soap  get  in  the  pails  or  tubs,  it  prevents  the  beer 
working,  take  care  the  liquor-stands  be  quite  steady,  for  if  they 
rock  they  injure  the  beer,  they  should  be  made  of  oak,  and  they 
wiU  last  for  years.  Obserre,  nerer  bottle  beer,  wine,  or  cider,  but 
on  a  fine  day,  let  the  bottles  be  well  seen  to,  use  none  but  the  best 
corks.  Beer,  cider,  and  perry,  for  home  consumption,  should  stand 
in  the  bottles  six  or  eight  hours  before  they  are  corked,  cider  and 
perry  should  have  the  corks  wired  and  be  packed  in  a  bin  with 
sand. 


1616. — EGO  FLIP,  OB  EGO  HOT. 

This  is  a  beverage  much  drank  in  England  at  Christmas  time ;  if 
properly  made  it  is  v«ry  agreeable,  but  if  not  skilfully  done  it  is  not 
at  all  pleasant  to  fStue  palate.  The  following  is  an  excellent  receipt. 
One  quart  of  ale^  one  quart  of  porter,  mix  together,  and  put  in  a 
saucepan  upon  the  fire,  where  it  is  to  remain  until  covered  with  a 
thick  cream,  but  it  must  not  boil.     Add  to  half  a  pint  of  gin  one 

aoartem  of  rum  and  four  eggs  well  beaten ;  beat  up  all  well  toge- 
lier,  add  moisl  si^gar  to  taste.  Take  the  mixed  ale  and  beer  ofi*  the 
fire,  and  poor  ikt  noEtnn  of  Sjggs  aad  spirits  backwards  and  forwards 
several  times ;  aow  return  it  to  the  fiie>  keep  it  well  stirred,  but  it 
must  not  boil  or  it  will  curdle ;  when  it  is  just  on  the  ver^e  of  a  boil 
take  it  ofi",  pour  It  into  a  j^g,  and  tiien  serve  in  glasses.  If  it  should 
require  any  more  si^gar  add  it. 


1617.— PUEL. 

This  is  also  a  winter  bfvcntge*  aad  is  composed  chiefly  of  gin  or 
mm  poured  into  beer,  and  made  hot,  sweetened  with  sugar  and 
sjnoed  with  grated  nutmeg. 


1618. — SPICED  ALE 

1m  made  in  a  similar  manner,  save  that  a  hot  toast  is  served  in  it* 
This  is  Ae  wassail  drink. 


WASSAIL  BOWL. 

WASSAIL  BOWL  IN  GLOUCESTERSHIRE. 
"Thii  u  thor  etu(oiD,aiid  ibeirjat, 
Wh«n  thejr  ate  it  the  ale  or  r«ut ; 
Ilk  Dwn  that  lorn  Then  him  think. 
Shall  M7  Wattaii  t  and  tc  him  drink. 
He  that  bidi  iball  nj  wanail  t 
The  t'otbar  iball  ny  again  DritJiltMt 
That  nji  vaaail  diinu  of  tha  cup— 
Tfiaainji  hit  felloir,  he  giraa  it  op. 
Diinkbail  I  he  laji,  and  drinki  tbereol^ 
KiMing  bim  in  boiuii  and  dcoC" 

RiOtTl  A  Bruntu;  Ttmf.  EJirard  1.  II, 


During  the  Chriatmu  week  bandi  of  men,  calling  thomselTca  "  WaMdlM," 
cany  about,  at  nigbt  time,  a  large  bowl,  mude  from  the  wooil  of  the  apple-tiM  '• 
and  sing  a  aoac  and  chorua  before  the  doors  of  their  n^ghboura.  Two  piew  >! 
•tick  are  genaraTly  bent  cronwa}'!  oier  the  bowl :  these,  ■>  well  na  the  bow),  a" 
ornamented  with  laurel,  miatleoe,  yarioua  other  evergreeni,  gay  ribbon*,  &C.  At 
the  concluidon  of  the  aong,  the  bowl  is  sent  into  the  house  &r  inspection,  in  tbo 
hope  chat  it  may  be  relumed  well  filled  with  beer,  &c,  ni  Mconpaniad  hj  ttt^ 
trifling  pecuniary  donation. 


]III8C£LLAK£OUS  BECETPTS.  4D1 


CHAPTER  XXVI. 

HISGELLAHEOirS  BECEIPTS. 

1616. — BLACKING. 

The  best  blacking  for  preserving  the  leather  of  boots  and  shoes, 
and  which  will  make  it  perfectly  water-tight,  is  the  following : — take 
of  yellow  wax  one  ounce  and  a  half,  of  mutton  suet  four  ounces 
and  a  half,  horse  turpentine  half  an  ounce,  ivory  black  three  ounces, 
melt  first  the  wax,  to  which  add  the  suet  and  afterwards  the  horse 
turpentine,  when  the  whole  is  melted  remove  it  from  the  fire ;  mix  in 
gradually  the  ivory  black,  constantly  stirring  till  it  is  cold.  This 
composition  is  sometimes  run  into  moulds  and  sold  under  the  name 
of  blacking  balls  ;  when  it  is  used  it  may  be  laid  or  rubbed  upon  a 
brush  which  should  be  warmed  before  the  fire ;  it  is  also  the  best 
blacking  for  every  kind  of  harness ;  when  it  is  wanted  in  a  large 
quantity  it  may  be  gently  melted  in  a  ladle  or  pot  over  a  chafing- 
dish  with  live  c6als. 


I6I7. — TO  CLEAN  CANE  CHAIR  BOTTOMS. 

Tom  up  the  chair  bottom,  and  with  hot  water  and  a  sponge  wash 
the  cane-work  well  so  that  it  may  become  completely  soaked ;  should 
it  be  yeiy  dirty,  you  may  add  soap.  Let  it  dry  in  the  open  air  if 
possible,  or  in  a  place  where  there  is  a  thorough  draught,  and  it  will 
become  as  tight  and  firm  as  when  new,  providing  that  it  has  not  been 
broken. 


1618. — TO   CLEAN   DECANTERS. 

Roll  up  in  small  pieces  some  coarse  broim  paper,  then  wet  and 
soap  the  same,  put  them  into  the  vessel  with  a  little  lukewarm  water, 
and  some  common  soda,  shake  them  well,  then  rinse  with  clean 
water,  and  it  will  be  as  bright  and  clear  as  when  new. 


1619.— CLEANINQ  FLOOR  CLOTHS. 

After  sweeping  and  cleaning  the  floor  cloth  with  a  broom  and 
damp  flannel  m  the  usual  manner,  wet  them  over  with  milk,  and  rub 
them  till  beautifully  bright  with  a  dry  cloth ;  they  will  thus  look  as 
if  they  where  rubbed  first  with  a  waxed  flannel  and  afterwards  with 

D  D 


402  MISGIXLAKBOUS  SECBIPTS. 

a  dry  one,  without  being  so  slippeiy,  or  so  soon  clogging  with  dust  or 
dirt. 


,  1620. — TO    CLEAN   SPONGES. 

When  very  foul  wash  them  in  diluted  tartaric  acid,  rinsing  them 
afterwards  in  water,  it  will  make  them  very  soft  and  white.  Be 
careful  to  dilute  the  acid  well  as  it  is  very  corrosive  and  therefore 
should  be  weak. 


1621. — ^TO  CLEAN  BSLK  STOCKIKGS. 

Wash  your  stockings  first  in  white  soap  liquor  lukewarm  to  take 
out  the  rough  dirt^  tlmi  rinse  them  in  fiur  waler,  and  work  them  well 
in  a  fresh  soap  liquor,  then  make  a  third  soap  liquor  pretty  strong,  in 
which  put  a  Uttle  stone  blue  wrapped  in  a  flannel  bag,  till  your  liquor 
is  blue  enough;  then  wash  your  stockings  well  therein,  and  take 
them  out  and  wring  them;  then  let  them  be  dried  so  that  they  remain 
a  little  moist,  then  stove  tiiem  with  brimstone ;  after  which  put  upon 
the  wooden  leg  two  stockings  one  upon  the  other,  observing  that  the 
two  fronts  or  outsides  are  hce  to  face,  then  polish  them  with  Aa. 

N.B.  The  first  two  soap  liquors  must  be  only  lukewarm,  3ie  latf 
soap  liquor  as  hot  as  you  can  bear  your  hand  in  it. 

Blonds  and  gauzes  are  whitened  in  the  same  manner,  only  a  fittfe 
gum  must  be  put  in  the  soap  liquor  before  they  are  stoved. 


1623. — ^TO  GLEAN  TURKET  GARPEIH. 

To  revive  the  colour  of  a  Turkey  carpet,  beat  it  wellwiA  a 
till  the  dust  is  all  out,  then  with  a  lemon  or  sorrel  juice  take  out  the 
spots  of  ink,  if  the  carpet  be  stained  with  any,  wash  it  in  cold  water, 
and  afterwards  shake  out  all  the  water  from  the  threads  of  the  carpet; 
when  it  is  thoroughly  dry  rub  it  all  over  with  the  crumb  of  a  hot 
wheaten  loaf,  and  if  die  weather  is  very  fine  hang  it  out  in  the  open 
air  a  night  or  two. 

1623. — ^TO  CLEAN   WATER  CASKSw 

Scour  the  inside  well  out  with  water  and  sand,  and  afterwards 
apply  a  quantity  of  charcoal  dust :  another  and  a  better  method  is  to 
rinse  them  with  a  strong  solution  of  oil  of  vitriol  and  water,  which 
entirely  deprives  them  of  their  foulness. 


1624. — TO  DETECT  WHITING   OR  CHALK  IN  FLOUR. 

Mix  with  the  flour  some  juice  of  lemon  or  good  vinegar,  if  tiie 
flour  be  pure  they  will  remain  together  at  rest,  but  if  there  be  a 
mixture  of  whiting  ox  chalk,  a  fermentation  or  working  like  yeast 
will  ensue,  the  adulterated  meal  is  whiter  and  heavier  than  the  g^Hid. 


1625. — ^TO  EXTRACT  MARKING  INK. 

The  fbUowin*'  process  will  be  found  easy  and  'efl^*ctiial.     Take 


MISCELLANEOUS  BECEIPT8.  403 

the  piece  of  marked  linen  and  immerse  it  in  a  solution  of  chloride  of 
lime,  when  in  a  few  minutes  the  chaneten  will  pass  from  hkck  to 
white,  owin^  to  a  new  preparation  of  siWer  being  formed,  namel]r 
white  chloride  of  silyer,  which  still  remains  in  the  fabric,  but  owinr 
to  its  solubility  in  solution  of  ammonia  it  may  be  entirely  extracted 
by  immersion  in  that  liquid  immediately  it  is  remoTed  ont  of  the  first, 
and  allowing  it  to  remain  in  it  for  a  few  minutes;  after  this  it  om\f 
requires  to  be   well  rinsed  in  clean  water  which  completes  the 

process. 

■         ■ 

1626. — ECONOMICAL  USB  OF  EIRB. 

But  few  persons  are  aware  of  the  adTantages  which  may  bo 
obtuned,  by  simply  lining  the  backward  sides  of  an  ordinary  fire  plaoe, 
with  fire  brick.  Eyeiy  one  must  hare  noticed  that  when  a  fire  goes 
out,  the  coals  at  the  sides  of  the  fire  are  left  unbumt  while  the  centre 
is  consumed,  this  arises  from  the  cooling  powers  of  the  iron  at  the  sides, 
and  hence  the  complaint,  that  you  must  have  a  krge  fire  or  none  at  all; 
with  fire  brick  the  whole  of  the  fire  however  small  ^vill  be  kept  a-light, 
an  object  of  great  consideration  in  spring ;  a  no  less  important  adran- 
tage  is  that  less  smoke  is  produced. 


1627. — ECONOMICAL   USE   OP  NUTMEG. 

If  you  grate  a  nutmeg  at  the  stalk  end,  it  will  prove  hollow 
throughout ;  whereas  the  same  nutmeg,  had  it  been  grated  from  the 
other  end,  would  have  proved  sound  and  solid  to  the  last. 


1628. — TO   EXTINGUISH  A  FIRE. 

A  solution  of  five  ounces  of  muriate  of  ammonia  in  one  gallon  of 
water  will  easOy  extinguish  a  large  fire. 


1629.— FB08T  BmEN  FRUITS  AND    VEGETABLES. 

Such  firuits  and  roots  as  pears,  apples,  and  potatoes,  as  have  been 
penetrated  by^'frost,  may  be  recoverea  by  putting  them  into  cold  water 
when  a  thaw  approaches,  and  letting  them  remain  in  the  water  for 
some  time,  till  oy  the  plumpness  and  faimess  of  the  fruits  and  roots 
it  appears  that  the  particles  of  firost  are  extracted.  This  method 
has  onen  been  tried  and  found  to  answer. 


1630. — TO   PINE   CLOUDY  BEER. 

Rack  off  the  cask,  and  boil  one  pound  of  new  hops  in  water  with 
ooarse  sugar,  and  when  cold  put  it  in  at  the  bung  hole. 


1631. — FURNrruRE  polish. 

Bees'  wax  hai£  a  pound,  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  alkanet  root; 
■idlt  together  in  a  pipkin,  until  the  former  is  well  coloured.  Then  add 
finteed  oil,  and  spirits  of  turpentine,  of  each  half  a  ^1,  strain 
through  a  piece  of  coarse  muslin. 

D  D  2 


404  HISCELLNNEOUS  RECEIPTS. 


1632. — GINGER  BEER. 

Four  two  gallons  of  boiling  water  on  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
cream  of  tartar,  one  ounce  of  sliced  ginger,  two  pounds  of  lump 
sugar,  let  it  stand  six  hours,  then  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  yeast, 
let  it  stand  six  hours  more,  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  put  it  into 
stone  bottles,  tie  down  the  corks,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use  in  twenty^ 
four  hours. 


1633. — TO   RENDER   HARD   WATER  SOFT. 

For  ereiy  hundred  gallons  take  half  a  pound  of  the  best  quick 
lime,  make  it  into  a  cream  by  the  addition  of  water,  then  difi^use  it 
through  the  hard  water  in  a  tank  or  resenroir  and  allow  the  whole  to 
stand ;  it  will  quickly  be  bright,  the  lime  having  united  with  the 
carbonate  of  lime,  which  makes  the  hard  water,  will  be  all  deposited. 
This  is  a  most  beautiful  application  of  the  art  of  chemistry. 


1634. — ^HERBS  FOR  DRYING. 

The  best  state  in  which  balm,  thyme,  sage,  and  other  kitchen  or 
medicinal  herbs  can  be  gathered  for  diying  to  preserve  for  winter  use 
is  just  as  their  flowers  are  opening,  at  that  period  of  growth  they  are 
found  to  contain  more  of  the  essential  oil,  on  which  their  flavours 
depend,  than  at  any  other. 

1635. HONEY,   TO   CLARIFY. 

Take  six  pounds  of  honey,  a  pound  and  three  quarters  of  water, 
two  ounces  and  a  quarter  of  pounded  chalk,  ^ve  ounces  of  coal 
pulverized,  washed  and  well  dried,  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well 
oeaten  in  three  ounces  of  water  for  each  pound  of  honey;  put  the 
honey,  water,  chalk,  and  eggs  into  a  copper  vessel  that  will  hold 
about  one-third  more,  let  them  boil  for  two  minutes,  throw  in  the 
coal,  mixing  it  with  a  spoon  and  continuing  the  boiling  two  minutes 
longer ;  then  take  the  saucepan  from  the  fire  and  let  it  stand  nearly  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  that  the  liquor  may  cool,  then  take  a  new  sieve, 
it  must  be  well  washed  or  it  will  impart  a  disagreeable  taste,  pass 
the  honey  through,  taking  care  to  filter  the  first  drops  twice,  as 
they  generally  carry  with  them  a  portion  of  coal:  the  syrup  which 
still  adheres  to  the  coal  and  other  materials  may  be  separated  as 
follows  —  pour  boiling  water  on  them  till  they  no  longer  retain  anr 
sweetness,  then  put  these  waters  together,  set  them  over  a  large  fire 
to  evaporate  until  the  syrup  only  remains. 


1636. ISINGLASS,    TO    CLARIFY. 

Take  two  ounces  of  the  clearest  isinglass  for  a  mould  of  jelly, 
put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  water  enough  to  cover  it,  set  it  by  a  stove 
with  a  spoon  in  it  to  stir  it  and  skim  it  when  any  scum  rises ;  let  it 
boil  very  gently  and  well  reduce,  be  careful  not  to  reduce  too  much 
as  it  will  bum  and  spoil  your  jelly,  when  you  think  it  is  reduced 
enough  pass  it  through  a  sieve  ready  for  use. 


MISCELLANEOUS  BECEIPT8.  406 


1637. — ISINGLASS,  TO  CLABIPY. 

Take  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  the  best  isinglass,  cut  it  into  pieces 
and  wash  them  in  wann  water  several  times,  put  the  isinglass  into 
a  stewpan  with  five  glasses  of  filtered  water,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and 
as  soon  as  it  boils  set  it  at  the  side  of  the  stove  so  as  to  keep  up 
the  boiling;  take  off  the  scum  as  soon  as  it  rises,  and  when  the 
whole  is  reduced  to  three  quarters  strain  it  through  a  cloth  into  a 
basin  for  use. 


1638. — IRON  SPOTS  ON  MARBLE. 

To  remove  iron  spots  from  marble,  mix  equal  quantities  of  spirit  of 
vitriol  and  lemon  juice;  shake  it  well,  wet  the  spots  with  the  mixture, 
and  in  a  few  minutes  rub  with  a  soft  linen,  until  they  are  completely 
efiaced. 


1639. INK   SPOTS.'' 

As  soon  as  the  accident  happens  wet  the  place  with  juice  of  sorrel 
or  lemon,  or  with  vinegar,  and  the  best  hara  white  soap. 


1()40. — BnXTURB  FOR  CLEANING  PAVEMENTS. 

Boil  together  half  a  pint  each  of  size  and  stone-blue  water  with 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  whiting  and  two  cakes  of  pipe-makers'  clay  in 
about  two  quarts  of  water;  wash  the  stones  over  with  a  flannel 
slightly  wetted  in  this  mixture,  and  when  dry  rub  them  with  flannel 
and  brush. 


1641. — OFFENSIVE   SMELLS. 

One  of  the  best  and  most  pleasant  disinfectants  is  coffee ;  the  sim- 
plest way  to  use  it  is  to  pound  the  well-dried  raw  beans  in  a  mortar 
and  strew  the  powder  over  a  moderately-heated  iron  plate.  The 
ample  traversing  of  the  house  with  a  roaster  containing  freshly 
roasted  coffee  will  clear  it  of  offensive  smells. 


1642. — TO  PRESERVE  EGGS. 

Apply  with  a  brush  a  solution  of  gum  arabic  to  the  shells,  or  im'* 
merse  the  eggs  therein;  let  them  dry,  and  afterwards  pack  them  in  dry 
charcoal  dust^  this  prevents  their  being  affected  by  any  alterations  of 
temperature. 


1643. — TO  PERFUME   LINEN. 

Rose  leaves,  dried  in  the  shade  or  at  about  four  feet  from  a  stove, 
one  pound ;  of  cloves,  carraway  seeds,  and  allspice,  of  each  one  ounce ; 
pound  in  a  mortar,  or  grind  in  a  mill ;  dried  salt  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
mix  all  these  together,  and  put  the  compound  into  little  bags. 


,406  USBCBhLASmOUS  BECSIPT8. 

1644. — ^SATS  AVD  lacx. 

The  asphodel  is  useful  in  driviiig  away  rats  and  mioe,  whidi  hare 
such  an  antipathy  to  this  plant  that  if  their  holes  be  stopped  up 
with  it  they  will  rather^die  than  pass  where  it  has  been  pUeed. 


1645. — TO  BBSTORB   STALE  BBSE. 

To  about  a  quart  of  stale  beer  put  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  of 
wormwood,  this  will  restore  the  beer  and  make  it  sparkle  when 
poured  into  a  glass  like  bottled  porter. 


1646. — RICB   MILK. 

Take  sooe  rioe— one  ounce  for  each  person— wash  it  well  in  wanu 

water,  then  put  it  in  boiling  milk,  and  boil  it  for  two  or  three  hom 
over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  often,  adding  salt  or  sugar  to  liking,  and 
cinnamon. 


1647. — TO  TAKE  STAINS  OUT  OF  SILKS. 

Mix  together  in  a  phial  two  ounces  of  essence  of  lemon,  and  one 
ounce  of  oil  of  turpentine. 

Grease  and  other  spots  in  silks  are  to  be  rubbed  gently  with  a 
linen  rag  dipped  in  the  abore  composition. 


1648. — TO  BxxsAior  catsASE  stotb  fbom  (snjcsy  muslins,  etc. 

Scrape  French  chalk,  put  it  on  the  grease  spot,  and  hold  it  near 
the  fire,  or  ov^r  a  warm  iron  or  water-plate  filled  with  boiling  water, 
the  grease  will  melt,  and  the  French  chalk  absorb  it,  brush  or  rub  it 
off;  repeat  if  necessary. 

1649. — A  SUBSTITUTE  FOR  MILK  OR  CREAM. 

Beat  up  the  whole  of  a  fresh  egg  in  a  basin,  and  then  pour  boiling 
jtea  over  it  gradually,  to  prevent  its  curdling,  it  is  difficult  from  the 
taste  to  distinguish  it  from  rich  cream. 


1650. — SAGO 

Should  be  put  to  soak  for  an  hour  in  cold  water  to  take  off  the  earthy 
taste,  pour  off  that  and  add  fresh  water,  and  simmer  imtil  the  sago  is 
quite  clear.  Put  in  with  the  fresh  water  a  little  spice  and  a  slice  of 
lemon  peel.  A  glass  of  white  or  red  wine  and  sugar  may  be  added 
to  taste. 


1651. — to  take  milk  from  cream. 

Use  a  syphon,  and  draw  off  the  milk  from  beneath  the  surface  of 
the  cream,  and  thus  completely  separate  the  two  liquids  by  the 
simplest  means  and  with  the  least  possible  trouble. 


MISCELLAKSOUS  BECEIPTS.  407 

1652.— UTILITY  OF  NETTLES. 

Steel  dipped  in  the  juice  of  the  nettle  becomes  flexible,  lint 
dipped  in  nettle  juice  put  up  the  nostril  has  been  known  to  stay  the 
bleeding  of  the  nose,  when  other  remedies  have  failed,  and  fourteen 
or  fifteen  of  the  seeds  ground  into  powder  and  taken  daily  will  cure 
the  swelling  in  the  neck  known  by  the  name  of  goitre,  without  in 
any  way  iujuriug  the  general  system. 


1653. ^USEFUL  KNIFE  BOAJID. 

Corer  b  common  knife-board  with  buff-leather  on  which  are  put 
emeiy  one  part,  crocus  martis  three  paits  in  very  fine  powder,  mixed 
into  a  thick  paste  with  a  little  lard  or  sweet  oil,  and  spread  on  the 
leather  to  the  thickness  of  a  shilling.  This  metkod  gires  a  far  siipe- 
iKMr  edge  and  polish  to  the  knife  than  the  common  practice  of  n$mg 
In^Arat  on  a  board. 


408  GLOSSARY. 


A  GLOSSABT  OF  FOREIGN  TERMS  USED  IK  OOOKSRY,  BQiLB 

OF  FARE,  ETa 

Atelets.    Small  silTer  tkewera. 

Baba,    A  French  sweet  jreast  cake. 

Bain  Marie.  A  flat  vessel  containing  boiling  water,  intended  to  hold  also  other 
ssucepans  for  the  purpose  either  of  cooking  or  keeping  their  contents  hot 

Bouquet.     A  bunch  of  parsley  and  scalUons  tied  up  to  put  in  soups,  &c. 

Bouquet  garni,  or  Auaitonn^.  The  same,  with  the  addition  o[  cloves  or 
aromatic  herbs. 

Bourguignote.    A  ragodt  of  truffles. 

Braiie.  This  is  a  method  of  dressing  meat,  poultry,  &c.  without  evaparatknu 
It  is  done  by  lining  a  braising  pan  with  thin  slices  of  bacon,  beef,  or  .veal ;  upon 
which  place  whatever  you  may  intend  to  braiie ;  and  also  add  carrots,  onioiii^ 
lemons,  bay  leaf,  herbs,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Brioche,    A  French  yeast  cake. 

Buisson  (en).    A  fanciful  mode  of  dressing  up  pastry,  &c. 

Capilotade,    A  hash  of  poultry. 

Civet.    A  hash  of  game  or  wild  fowl. 

Cotnpeigne.    A  French  sweet  yeast  cake,  with  fruit,  &c. 

Compote.  A  mixed  rago(it  to  garnish  white  poultry,  &c.;  also  a  method  of 
stewing  fruit  with  syrup  for  desserts. 

Compotier.  A  dish  in  the  dessert  service  purposely  for  the  compote. 

Consomme,     A  clear  gravy,  very  strong  ;  see  receipt. 

Couronne  (en).  To  serve  any  prescribed  articles  on  a  dish  in  the  form  of  a 
crown. 

Court  or  short,  to  stew.    The  reduction  of  a  sauce  until  it  becomes  veiy  thick. 

Croquettes,     A  mince  of  fish,  meat,  poultry,  or  rice. 

Croustade.     Bread  baked  in  a  mould,  and  scooped  out  to  contain  minces,  &c.   ; 

Croutons.    Bread  cut  in  various  shapes  and  fried  lightly  in  butter  or  oil. 

Dorez.    To  wash  pastry,  &c.,  with  yolk  of  ^g  well  beaten. 

Dorure.     Yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten. 

•*  En  papiilote.'*  White  paper  is  greased  with  oil  or  butter,  and  then  folded 
over  a  cutlet  or  small  fish,  fastening  it  by  screwing  the  paper  at  the  edges. 

Entrees  are  dishes  served  at  the  commencement  or  during  the  first  course  of 
the  dinner. 

Entremets.     Small  ornamental  dishes  served  in  the  second  and  third  courses. 

Financiere.     An  expensive,  highly  flavoured,  mixfd  ragoOt. 

Flan,     A  French  custard. 

Glaze   (to).    To  reduce  sauces  to  a  jelly,  and  they  will  adhere  to  the  meat. 

Glaze  is  made  usually  from  reduced  consomm^,  or  juices  from  the  bottoms  of 
braised  white  meats.     It  should  be  preserved  in  jelly  pots. 

Glaze,  Glace,  or  Ice,  is  composed  of  white  of  egg  beaten  with  powdered  sugar. 

Godiveau.    A  common  veal  forcemeat 

Gran  (au),  expresses  that  the  article  is  dressed  with  meat  gravy. 

Gratin.  A  layer  of  any  article  intended  fur  this  purpose  is  spread  over  a  dish 
that  will  bear  the  fire,  and  is  placed  on  a  stove  or  hot  ashes  until  it  bums. 

Hors  d'asuvre.     A  small  dish  served  during  the  first  course. 

Lard  (to).   To  stick  bacon,  or  whatever  meat  may  be  named, into  poultry,  meat. 


BEHOVES,  ENTREES,  AND  ENTBEMETS. 


409 


&c  It  is  accomplished  with  a  larding  pin,  an  engraving  of  which  is  given*  one 
end  of  which  is  square  and  one  hollow.  The  lardon  is  put  into  this  hollow,  the 
point  is  then  inseited  in  the  meat,  and  on  being  drawn  through  leaves  the  bacon  or 
lardon  standing  in  its  proper  place.    It  requires  practice  to  do  this  well. 

Lardon,  The  pieces  into  which  bacon  or  other  meats  are  cut  for  the  purpose  of 
larding. 

Liaitoiu    A  finish  with  yolks  of  eggs  and  cream  for  ragoAts  and  sauces. 

Madeleines,    Cakes  made  of  the  same  composition  as  pound  cakes. 

Afaigre  {au).    Soups,  6cc.  dressed  without  meat. 

Marinade.    A  prepared  pickle  for  meat,  fish,  &c. 

Mask.    To  cover  completely. 

Meringue,  A  light  confection  formed  of  sugar  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a 
fine  froth. 

NouHles,  An  Italian  paste  resembling  macaroni,  it  is  flat  instead  of  being  in 
pipes. 

Panada,    Bread  soaked  in  milk,  used  principally  for  quenelles  and  fine  fjEirces. 

Passer.     To  fry  lightly. 

Phli.    A  raised  crust  pie. 

Po^Ue.  A  light  braise  for  white  meats ;  the  difference  between  this  and  the 
braise  is  that  in  the  former,  the  meat,  or  whatever  it  may  be,  need  not  be  so  much 
done  as  the  latter. 

Potage,     A  term  for  soup. 

Puree,  Any  meat,  fis>h,  or  other  article  boiled  to  a  pulp,  and  rubbed  through  a 
sieve.    See  Pur6e  presser. 

Quenelles,    A  fine  fnrce  ;  when  used  it  is  generally  poached. 

Hissoles,  A  mince  of  meat  or  fish  ;  in  paste  it  is  formed  into  a  variety  of  shapes 
for  side  dishes,  balls  being  the  more  frequent  mode  when  used  as  a  garnish . 

Itoux.     A  thickening  for  white  soups  and  gravies. 

Salmi.    A  hash  very  highly  seasoned. 

Sauter.     To  fry  very  lightly. 

Sabotiire  or  Saubeliire.  A  pewter  or  tin  vessel  in  which  are  placed  the  moulds 
containing  whatever  is  intended  to  be  frozen. 

Tammg.    A  silk  sieve. 

Toumer  or  turn.  To  stir  a  sauce  ;  also  to  pare  and  cut  roots,  vegetables,  and 
fruits  very  neatly. 

Tourte,    A  puff  paste  pie. 

Vanner,  To  take  up  sauce  or  any  other  liquid  in  a  spoon  and  turn  it  over 
very  quickly. 

Veioutc.    For  heightening  the  flavours  of  soups,  made  dishes,  &c. 

Voi-au'vent.  An  extremely  light  puff  paste,  in  which  is  enclosed  minces  of 
sweetbread ,  poultry,  game,  &c. 


NAMES  OF  TOP  REMOVE  DISHES. 


S  Chickens,  with  4  sheeps'  tongues. 
2  Chickens,  with  ox-tongue. 

2  Chickens,  with  cauliflower. 

3  Chickens,  with  a  foncy  bread  basket 
filled  with  green  peas. 

Noiz  de  veau  and  stewed  peas ; 
Or,  cucumber  sauce  ; 
Or,  spinach      do. 
Or,  endive        do. 
Or,  French  beans  do. 
Chevaux  de  frieze  lamb,  with  cucum- 
hen ; 
Or,  with  stewed  peas  ; 
Or,  with  sweetbreads  larded. 


Chevaux  de  frieze  mutton,  with  pur^ 
of  turnips  ; 

Or,  with  cucumbers ; 

Or,  with  peas  ; 

Or,  with  capons. 

Vol-au-vent  of  sweetbreads; 

Or,  chicken. 

Timbaie  of  macaroni,  with  sweetbreads; 

Or,  with  truffles  and  chickens  ; 

Or,  with  veal. 

Turban  of  palates  of  beef  done  white, 
with  mushrooms ; 

Or,  with  trufiles ; 

Or,  with  cucumbers  ; 


410 


BfiMOYfifi^   BNI^REES,  AND  BNTASMETSL 


Or,  widi  carrots  juid  tumipg; 
Or,  Italienne. 

Galantine  of  teal  wiUi  iteired  peaa; 
Or,  with  mushrooms ; 
Or,  with  asparagus. 
Calf  B  head  a  la  tourte ;  ] 
Or,  with  mushrooms  ; 
Or,  with  truffles ; 
Or,  with  hreed  crumbs  and  capenu 
:    Capon,  boned  and  forced,  mushrooms  ; 
Or,  with  truffles ; 
Or,  Italienne. 

Turkey, boned  and  forced,  with  tongue; 
Or,  plain,  with  oyster  sauoe. 
Capon,  plain,  bnuaed,  and  oyster  sauce. 

ENTR^Ea 

Espagnolets,  sweetbreads,  and  ploTers' 
egra,  or  pullets'. 

Espagnole  of  rice,  with  chiclcenor  young 
rabbit,  with  ploTers'  eggs  and  whole  truf- 
fles. 

Turban  of  lamb  sweatbreads. 

Small  timbale,  macaroni  and  truffles. 

<^uenelles,  garnished  with  plovers*  ciggs 
and  whole  truffles. 

Cutlets,  fowl  or  turkey,  with  tongue  and 
cucumbers. 

Bourdins  a  la  reine. 

Yol-au-Tent  a  la  fricasB^eb 

ENTRlfiES  OF  MUTTON. 

Haricot  mutton. 
Cutlets  do. 
Saut^  do. 
Rissoles  do. 
Braised  do. 
Hashed  do. 
Emincet  do. 
Irish  stew  do. 
Fillets       do. 


SAUCES. 


Tomato. 

Cucumber. 

Mushrooms. 

Italian. 

Endive. 

Turnips. 

Onion. 

Pouverade. 

Puree  Sobieie. 

Haricot. 

Lentils. 


French 
Gspen. 
Spinach. 

ENTRIES  OF  LAMB. 

Cutlets. 

Tendons. 

Haricot. 

Bhme. 

Sweatbreads. 

Cfaeranx  de  "fiieze. 

Saut6. 

Braised. 

Rissoles. 

Patties. 

Papillotes. 

Kan. 

Trotters. 

Head. 

Porte  of  pets. 

Tonato. 

Spinach.. 

Sonrei. 

£ndiv«. 

Mushroom. 

Italiaa. 

Traffles. 

French  beans. 

Sobiese. 

Button  beans. 

Turnips. 

Do.  pur^. 

Cucumber. 

Fricandeau. 

ENTREMETS. 

Gateau  u  la  Genoises  Modina. 
GAteau  u  la  Neapolitaine  marmalad< 
Gkteau  chocolate,  with  cream. 
Sandwich  pastry,  with  caramel  top. 
Vol-au-vent  marmalade,  sugar  top. 
Albert  pudding. 
Queen's  pudding,  with  vanilla. 
Almond  pudding,  with  jelly. 
Pur6e  rice  pudding,  wiUi  maraBehin 
Savoy   pudding,  with  dried   dMR 
with  Noyeau. 
Cheesecakes  hot 
Jellies. 
Creams. 


BILLS  OF  FABE. 


4U 


mUB  OF  FASE. 


JANUARY. 


CSidvvi' feet  Kwp  •  la  taitle. 
Crimped  cod. 
Tongue  and  cbeeka. 
Mushroom  laace. 
TSmVale  of  pullets.  Mutton  cutkta. 

BeeL  Cucumben. 

Haricot  beans.  Yol-au-vent. 

t  Fillet  of  soles.  Sweetmeats  and 

Maftie  dlidteL  lagoiU. 

Saddle  of  mutton. 
Sboosd  CouBn. 
Roast  fowl, 
^ntiy  &nc]r.  Orange  jelly, 

.  Kojeau  cream.  Sea  kale. 

Roast  hare. 


FEBRUARY. 

Orster  soup. 
'Turbot. 
Noiz  de  Teau  a  ia  finand^. 
Lamb  cutlets.  Tongue  and 

cheeks. 
Cacumbew.  Cutlets  with 

mushrooms. 
Tendons  of  real.         Casserolettes  with 
Tomata  sauce.  saut^  Italian 

sauce. 
Saddle  of  mutton. 
Secovd  Courss. 
Roast  pheasants  with  twetire  larks  round. 
Yoi-ai^vent.  Timbale  of  apple. 

Cranbernes.  Fried  artichokes. 

Orange  jell/. 

xiare  Doneda 


APRIL. 


Potage  a  la  printemps. 
Relev^  par  un  pki6  chaud. 
F3ets  de  pigeon         C6telett<!8  d*agneau 
au  natorel.  pftt^  aax  concom- 

fares. 
Le  poisson. 
BeileT^  par  un  sella  de  raouton  tMu 
Table  de  c6t6, 
pU^ila 


Ua  diapoa  tML 
QtHie  de  aoyean  Un  perdrix  de 

rouge.  gaufinesa  la 

ChantiHL 
Lei  champignons  a  T^uv^es. 
Balar^ ;  les  sandwiches  au  parmesanc  a 
V 


Potage  a  la  printenpa. 
ReleT6  par  les  petiis  poulets  aux  cham- 
pignons. 
Les  c6teIetteB  iie         Les  grenadiM  aux 
.   moatonila  pois  d'aspeiges. 

sobiese. 

Dn  saumon  boulli. 

Reler6  par  le  boeof  T6ti. 

TaUe  de  cAt^,  Table  de  cdt^, 

P^t^  a  la  reine.  Un  jambon  a  la 

bmise. 

Un  chapon  r6ti. 

Plum  pudding  k  Grel^e  du  vin  de 

Taaglaise.  madere. 

Les  champions  a  T^uv^es. 

Reler6  parle  souffl6  aux  fleurs  d'orange. 


Sonpe  a  la  Windsor. 
Relevtf ;  m  quartier  d*  sgneau  r6ti. 
Fricandeau  de  Eminc^  de  volaillea 

veau  a  la  jardiniere.  gamie  des 

croquettes. 
PoisBoa ;  on  tnriMt  garni  de  filets  de  aoles. 
Relevd  ;  un  aitch  bone  de  Ueuf  bouilli. 

DxuxiiMS  Seryice. 

Les  petita  poulets  r6tis. 
La  gd[6e  de  vin.         Pomme  de  terre  a 

la  maitre  d'h6tel. 
L'asperges.  Creroe  de 

Chantilly. 
L'olson  rdti. 
Side  table. 
Filet  de  turbot  a 
la  maitre  d'hdtel. 

Soupe  a  la  tartuffea. 
Rele?^  ;  les  poulets  et  langue  de  boeuf 
jardiniere. 
Cdtelettea  Gibelettes  de 

d^ngaeaa.  lapcroan  aux 

Pan^  a  HtaUenne.  champignons. 

Poisson; 
De  turbot  garni  de  merlans  frits. 

Le  can^  de  mouton  rdti. 
Side  table. 
Leshuitresan 
gratin. 

Deuxi^mx  Shcttcz. 

Un  dindonneau  piqud  r^ti. 
Gel6e  de  vin.  L'asperges. 

Les  pommes  de  Biscuits  a  la 

terre  en  salade.  Chantilly. 

Des  pigeons  r^^tis. 
Lamb  cutlets  and  aspan^gns, 
Souffle  padding. 


412 


BILLS  OF  FABE. 


Soupe  a  la  Windsor. 
Reler^  ;  longe  de  veau  i  la  bechamel. 
Cdtelettes  de  Poulets  d6coup6s 

mouton.  aux  points  des 

Saut^  aux  fines  asperges. 

herbes. 

Poisson. 

Turbot  bouilli  et  frit. 

Relev^  ;  jambon  brais^  aux  legumes. 

Table  de  cdt^,  carr^  de  mouton  rdti. 

Dsuxi&ME  Sertick. 

Un  dindonneau  rdti. 
Biscuit  a  la  Les  huitres  aux 

ChantilljT.  gratins. 

L'asperges  Une  gel^ 

d'oranges. 
Les  pigeons  rdtis. 

Soupe  a  la  jardiniere. 
Relev6  ;  quartier  d'agneau  rdti. 
-Cdtelettes  d'ugneau        Une  fricassee  de 
pan6  aux  bancots  lapereau  aux 

verts.  champignons. 

Poisson. 
Un  turbot  bouilli. 
Kelev^  ;  poitrine  de  boeuf  au  gros  sal. 
Table  de  cdt6,  petiU  p^tes  aux  huttres. 

DsuxiiMS  Sbbtice. 

Peux  petits  poulets  rdtis. 
Grel^  de  vin.  L'asperges  a 

I'angluise. 
Les  choux-fleura  Gateau  a  la 

au  beurre.  duchesse. 

Deux  canards  rdtis. 


MAY. 

Potage  aux  pur^e  de  carottes. 
Relev^  ;  les  poulets  braises  gamis  a  la 

priiitaniere. 
Les  cdtelettes  Saut^  de  ris  de 

d^neau  pan^  a  la         veau  a  I'^carlate. 
marechal. 

Poisson. 
Un  turbot  bouilli. 
Reler^ ;  un  jambon  garni  de  chou-croute. 
Table  de  cdt6. 
Un  carr^  de 
mouton  roti  et  les 
,  xougets  aux  fines 
herbes. 

Deuxi^me  Service. 

Les  canetons  rdtis. 
La  gelee  d'oranges.  L'asperges. 

Du  macaroni  au  Le  biscuit  a  la 

gratin.  Chantilli. 

Les  pigeons  rdtis. 


Soupe  Termicelli  claire. 

Belev^  ;  les  poulets  a  U  jardini^ 

Lea  fricandeau  Gmipotedepigeot 

piqu£  a  Toseille.  a  I'e^MigBoki 

Poisson. 

Turbot  bouilli. 

Ilelev^  ;  le  carr^  de  mootoli  r6li. 

SlOOHDB  Sb&ticb. 

Deux  petits  levnnts  lAtis. 

Chmrlotte  i  la  L*aspeigeii 

russe.  G4teaa&lad'ar- 

Salade  d'homard.  tdse. 

Le  caneton  rdtL 

Side  table.— PetiU  p&t£s. 

Soupe  aux  concombrea. 
Kelev^  ;  chapon  aux  choux-flems. 
Pieds  d'flgneau  Saut^  de  boenf 

a  la  poulette.  aux  fines  heriNi* 

Poisson. 
Les  rougets  sauce  italienne. 
Relev6  ;  jambon  braisi  aux  ^pinaidk 

SxcoNDi  Seryicb. 

Lea  canetons  rdtis. 
L*a«perges  Crdmearof«sgH> 

Les  gftteau  a  gros        Salade  d'bomud' , 
sauce. 

Les  pigeons. 
Side  Table.— FileU  de  soles  friti. 

Soupe  au  pur^e  aux  concombref. 
Relev6  ;  un  gigot  d'agneau  aux  ^pinaidi. 
Les  pieds  d'agneau  Les  ris  de  reu 

a  la  poulette.  piques  a  Tanglsii*' 

Poisson. 
Turbot  bouilli. 
Relev6  ;  le  boeuf  roti  a  Tanglaise. 

Sbconde  Sbrticb. 

Les  canetons  rdtis. 

L'asperges .  Boudin  aux  laiw* 

Creme  au  bain-  Les  oeufcdes  • 

marie.  pluvieis> 

Les  pigeons  rdtis. 

Side  table. — Rougets  aux  fines  herbei* 


Potage  a  la  printemps. 
Releve  ;  par  un  chapon  a  la  finandere. 
Cdtcle.tes  .  Le  galimafi^e 

d'agneau  aux  de  Tolaiile. 

6pignards. 

Les  rougets  a  IHtalienne. 
Relev^  ;  un  selle  de  mouton  roti. 

DxuxiiME  Seeyics. 

Les  canetons  rdtis. 

L'asperges.  Gel^e  de  noyesu. 

G&teau  a  la  Une  salade 

duchesse.  d'homard  fraise* , 

Les  pigeons  rdtis. 

Side  table. — Petits  p&t^s  au  salpioon. 


BILLS  OF  FABB. 


413 


pe  aox  rit  et  pui^e  de  petits  poulets. 
^ev^;  un  quaitier  d'togneau  r6ti. 
9  fricassee  de  Cotelettes  de 

eno  garnie  dee        mouton  glac6  a  la 
quenelles  de  jardmiere. 

▼olaille. 

PoisBon. 
Les  rocigets  sauce  a  Htalienne. 

DEUXiiMB  Sbrvici. 

Deux  canetons  r6tis. 

Li'asperges.  Boudin  a  la 

I  oetits  choux  cabinet. 

I  la  roagne  Let  choux-fleun 

au  beurre. 
Les  pigeons  r6tis. 
Table  de  c6t6  ;  petits  pftt^ 
Pommes  de  terre  nouvelles. 


Snupe  a  la  jardiniere, 
ev^j  les  petits  poulets  a  la  printaniere. 
ndonsdeveau  Cotelettes  d'ogneau 

Glac^  aux  pan6s  a 

Toncombres.  Titalienne. 

Du  poisson. 
Relev6 ;  le  selle  de  mouton  r6tL 

DeuxiAme  Service. 

Le  pintade  pique. 
L'asperges.  Les  beignets 

anglo-franfais. 
a  gel6e  du  vin.  Les  pommes  de 

terre  a  la  mattre 
d'hfitel. 

Deux  canetons  rdtis. 

Table  de  cdt6  ; 

Petits  pdt6s  a  la  mazarine. 


Soupe  vermicelli  a  la  Windsor. 
Iev£  ;  un  gigot  d'agneau  aux  6pinards. 

de  teau  piqu6  Les  poulets  d6- 

a  Toseille.  coup^  a  la 

printaniere. 
Poisson. 
Les  rougets  aux  fines  herbes. 

Rele?^  ;  boeuf  rdti  a  Tanglaise. 

Les  petits  poulets. 

!}eI6e  du  vin.  Les  ceufkdesplu- 

vieraau  natureL 
L'asperges.  Boudin  aux  raisins 

a  Tanglaise. 

Deux  canetons  r6ti8. 

'able  de  cML 

I  niaquereaux  gnmis  des  filets  de  soles 
frits. 


Potage  rermicelli  a  la  Windsor. 
ReleT^  ;  I'oison  i6ti  aux  chou-croiites. 

Deux  Extr^bs. 

Le  fricandeau  de  reau  piqu6  a  Tosaille. 

Les  poulets  d€  coup^  aux  pois  d*aspeiges* 

Poisson. 

Du  saumon  a  la  maravin. 

Le  selle  de  mouton  rdti. 

DEUXiiMB  Service. 

Deux  petits  poulets  rdtis. 
L'asperges  au  Gel6e  du  vin. 

naturel.  Timbale  de 

Les  meringues.  macaroni. 

Les  pigeons  rdtis. 
Table  de  eU€  ;  filets  de  soles  frits. 
P&tds  au  jus. 

Soupe  au  pur6e  aux  concombres. 
Rele?6;  le  quartier  d'agneau  rdti. 
Les  canetons  d6-  Les  petits  poulets 

coup^salabi-  en  membresgamia 

garade.  a  la  printaniere. 

Poisson. 
Relev^;  un  aitch  bone  of  beef. 

DBUXiiHE  Service. 
Les  dindonneaux  piques  rdtis. 
La  gel6e  du  vin.  Salade  des 

homards. 
L'aspeiges.  Meringues  a  la 

Chantilli. 

Les  pigeons  rdtis. 
Les  croquette*. 
Suet  pudding. 


Potage  a  la  printcmps. 
Rclev6  ;  un  carr6  de  Ixruf  u  la  jardiniere. 

QUATRE  £i«TRBES. 

Les  poulets  d€-        Cotelettes  d*agneau, 
coupes  aux  pois.         pand  a  la  martSchal. 
Ris  de  veau  piqu4  Petits  p4t<$s  a  la 

a  la  Toseille.  vin. 

Poisson. 

Du  saumon  bouilli. 

ReleT^  ;  un  jambon  brais^  aux  ^pinards. 

Loin  of  mutton 
on  side  table. 

DBUxiixB  Service. 
Petits  poulets  rdtis. 
Petits  pois  au  La  gelde  au  fraise. 

naturel. 
La  tourte  de  L'asperges. 

groseille. 

Cnnston  rdti. 


414 


BIIiLS   OP  PABE. 


Potage  att  pois  Terts. 
^  Rel«v^;leB  pooktt  bnMs  i^ 

QUATRBS  Eimi&BS. 

Cdtelettes  d'agneaa         Un  naM  de  to> 

aaz  bariooU  verts.  laille  anx  truflfes. 

Les  croquettes  des         Filets  de  merlaiis 

lis  de  veau  frits.  a  la  hollondaise. 

Tiirbot  boaflli. 

Le  jambon  brais^  anx  ^pinarda. 

Side  table. 
Neck  of  mutton  roast. 

DivxiixE  Sbktiob. 

Un  pintade  pique. 
Petits  pois  an  Gel^  de  vm. 

naturel. 

Le  panier  L'asperges. 

alaCbantilly. 

Deux  canetons  r6tia. 


Soupe  a  la  faubonne. 
Rdev^  ;  le  carr^  de  boeuf  a  la  jardiniere. 

QUATSE   ENTfiiES. 

Lea  filets  demerlans  Les  friteaux  de 

a  la  cardinal.  Tolaille  a  la  portu- 

Cdtelettes  de  poi-  gaise. 

trine  d'agnean  Lea  petits  vol-au> 

fiux  haricofca  vertsw  vent  a  la  leine. 

Poisson. 
Le  turbot  et  filets  de  soles. 
Un  selle  de  mouton  rAti. 

Decxi^me  Service. 

Deux  canetons  rdtis. 
Gelee  du  vin.  L'asperges. 

Petits  pois.  Le  marasquin  u  la 

Cbantilly. 
Le  pintade  ruti. 

Puree  de  pois  vert. 
Le  carr^  de  bcBuf  aux  legumes. 

QUATBE   EnTRBIS. 

Filets  de  turbot  Cdtelettes  de  poi- 

a  la  cr^me.  trine  d'agnean  aux 

concombres. 
L'emince  de  veau  Les  petits  p&t6s 

a  la  polonnaise.  a  la  toulouse. 

Poisson. 
Le  turbot  bouilli. 
Selle  de  mouton  rdti. 
Deuxi^xe  Service. 
Deux  petits  poulets  idti. 

Petits  pois.  Le  creme  a 

Les  tartelettes  Tanglaise. 

de  groseille.  L*aspeiges. 

Le  caneton  rdti. 


Sdupe  a  la  hoUandaue. 

BeleT6 ;  lespoutetibrais^aiix  chouzicin 

Las  filets  de  C6telctt« 

lapereau  gamk  d'agneau  gpon 

d'une  roac^doine.         deshaiicolaiat 

Le  poinon. 
Relevd ;  cani  de  bonif  a  la  flamawif. 
Gel6e  garni  de  L'aapergeL 

purde. 

Salad&  Lea  choox  a  b 

dlra«naid.  magjaal. 

Les  pigeons. 
Side  table. 
Fillet  de  turbot  a 
la  cr^me  pain 
mutton  roast. 

Soupe  a  la  jardiniere. 
Relev^  ;  les  petits  poulets  a  la  griUioD 

QlTATRE  EkTE&ES. 

Les  ris  de  veau  Cdtelettcs  peik 

a  I'oseille.  aux  haricoli 

TertL 
Filets  de  sole  FHcaas^  da 

a  la  mat tre  poulets,  sauce  a 

d'bdtel.  cuucaiBbnSi 

Du  poisson. 

Un  turbot  bouilli  au  naturel. 

Relev^;  le  selle  de  mout<m  rdti. 

DsuxiiME  Service. 

Le  caneton  rdti. 
L'asperges.  La  gel6e  du  vi 

aux  fraises. 
Tourte  de  Petita  pois  an 

groseille.  natiuel. 

Les  pigeons  rdtis. 


Potage  a  la  printaniere. 

Relev^  ;  les  poulets  brais6s  aux 
cboux-fleurs. 

QuATRE  Entrees. 

Les  canetons  d^-  Casserole  au  i 

coupes  aux  pois.  gamie  de  pur 

de  volaille. 

Petits  piit6s  gamis  Cdtelettea  d 

des  rognons  de  mouton  pan^S) 

coqs.  barieots  verl 

Poisson. 

Les  rougets  aux  fines  berbes. 

Relev^  ;  un  gigot  de  mouton  rdti 

Deux  canetons  r6tL 

L'asperges.  Gel6e  de  Nor< 

Creme  au  Lea  petita  poii 

groseilles.  naturel. 

Les  pigeons  rdti. 


BILLS  OF  TAME. 


415 


Sonpe  iMehspol  de  16giiBMt. 
Relev^ ;  let  pwAto  i  la  printaniere. 
aMcrolettet  Les  cdteltttci 

au  ria  aux  auh  d'agneau  pan6  k  la 

de  pluTMiB.  iiiar6dial. 

Poisson. 
Rdev6  ;  le  gigot  de  mouton  r6ti. 

IhroXlAMB  SiBTICB. 

Les  l^rrauta  rftth. 
L'aapeiges.  Crdme  du  caf(6. 

Tourte  de  Biagnonnnise  de 


Le  canetoQ  i6tL 
Side  table. — Lee  croquettes. 

Potage  au  legumes  au  roiaoa.* 

ReleT^  ;  quartier  d'agnean  rdti. 

Tendons  de  veau  C6telettes  de 

garnis  d*une  mouton  saut^ 

mac^oine.  aux  concombres. 

Les  rougets  aux  fines  herbes. 

RelcT^;  les  petits  pouletaaux  dioux-fleuis. 

DbuxiAmb  Sbbviob. 

Deux  petits  l^rrauts  r6tis. 
L*asperges.  Gcl6e  d^orangc. 

Le  tourte  de  Salade  d'homard. 

groseiUew 

Les  pigeons  rdtia. 

Pota<;e  aux  legumes  a  la  hollandaisc. 
Reler^ ;  une  poitrine  de  boeuf  au  gros  aeL 

Les  cotelettes  Les  poulets  d^- 

paneea  et  glac6es.  coupes  a  la 

printaniere. 
Poisson. 
Le  turbot  garni  des  merlans. 
ReleTtf ;  le  selle  de  mouton  rdti. 

Dkuxi&me  Service. 

La  poularde  rdtie. 
L^aspeiges.  Gel^e  d'orange. 

Le  tourte  de  Salade  d'homard. 

gro&eille. 

Let  pigeons  i6tis. 
Side  table. — Les  rougets  aux  fines  herbes. 

Potage  a  la  hollandaise. 
Beler^ ;  le  gigot  d'agneau  aux  ^pinards. 
Le  fticandeau  do  L'^minc^  de 

?eaa  piqu^  aux  mouton  aux 

fhamwgnons.  concombres. 

Le  turbot  et  merlans  frits. 
Reler^ ;  le  bonif  r6tL 

DsvxiiifB  Sbbticb. 

Les  dindonneaux. 
LVtpefges.  Gel^e  du  vin. 

Boudinaux  Salade  d'homard. 

raisins. 

Le  canetOB  rdtL 
Side  teble.—- Petits  p4t^  i  la  reine. 


Sonpe  i  la  bruaoite. 

.    Relev<6 ;  un  quartier  d*agneau  rdti 
Let  ris  de  Tc«a  Let  eaaserolettea 

fitfoika  aux  de  ris  gamiee  de 

chaapigBOMk  pur6e  de  Tolatlle. 

Poisson, 
Tuibot  boulli  et  merlans  ftifi. 
Aitch  bone  of  beef  boiled. 
IhroxiiMB  ^niTicB. 

La  pottlaide  rdtie. 
Grel^e  d'oranges.  L'asperget. 

Salade  d*homard.  O^me  de 

groseille. 
Le  caneton  r6ti. 
Green  peas. 
Petits  pki69  a  la  reine. 
Suet  pudding. 

Potage  a  la  jardiniere. 
Relev^ ;  let  petits  poulets  aux  cboux-fleon. 

QUAXBB   EHTRiES. 

Les  ris  de  Teau  L'6minc6  de 

piqu^  a  l^oteille.         Tolaille  a  la  raine, 

gamie  des  caite- 
rolettet  an  lit. 
Let  petitt  vol-au-  Les  cdtelcttetde 

Tent  garnis  de  poitrine  d'tsgaeau 

rognons  de  coqs.  pan^. 

Poisson. 
Le  turbot  bouilli  au  naturel. 
Relev6;  le  gigot  du  mouton  r6ti. 

DKVXiiME  SbBVICB. 

Les  canetons  rdtis. 
Les  petits  pois.  Gel6e  d'orange. 

Cr^me  aux  L'aspcigts. 

groscilles. 

Le  lenaut. 
Pommes  de  terre  nouvelles. 


Un  potage  d  la  printaniere. 
ReleT^;  longe  de  reau  a  la  b^chameL 

DBOXiiMB   ENTaSBS. 

Les  canetons  d6-  Kminc^  de  bcraf 

coupes  aux  pois  a  la  portugaiae. 

d'asperges. 

RelcT^;  un  jambon  brais^  aux 

^ptnards. 

Les  petits  poulets  rdtis. 

Charlotte  4  la  La  gel6e  de  via. 

russe. 
LVtfpeiget.  Le  mi 

de 
Les  pigeons. 
Croquettes  de  iis  de 
Bmifrdti. 


416 


BILLS  OF  FARE. 


Polag9  «iiz  l^ffamci  et  tendons. 
Relevi  ;  ie  Rigot  d^igneau  aux  ^pinards. 

QUATEB  ENTRilS. 

C6telettes  de  Petiti  p4t^ 

inouton  a  la  garnii  de  nlpicon 

mar^chal.  aux  anh. 

Let  petits  poulets  Le  fricandeau 

d^up^  aux  piqu^  atix 

ooDCombret.  tomates. 

Lea  tranchea  de  nimion 
garniea  de  filets  de  soles  frits. 
Le  bfleuf  r6ti  i  I\ing1aise. 

DsirxiiMB  Sertiob. 
Les  petits  poulets  r6tis. 
'   Petits  pois  au  Boudin  aux 

naturel.  raisins. 

Tourte  de 

groseille.  L'aspeiyes. 

Deux  canetons  rdtis. 


Soupe  a  la  reine. 
Rel.  Longe  de  veau  rdtie  4  la  bechamel. 

Qdatr£  Ertr&bs. 

Les  c6telette8  Saut6  de  ris  de 

d'agneau  pnn^es  a         Teau  aux  haricots 

la.  mar^chal.  Terts. 

Petit  ToI-au>vent  Les  tranches 

garni  a  la  de  bauf  a  la 

touiouse.  franfaise. 

Poisson. 
Les  tranches  de  saumony  gamies  avec  les 
filets  de  soles  frits. 
Un  selle  do  mouton  r6ti. 

Deuxi&mb  Sbryice. 

Les  canetons  rdtis. 

Petits  pois  au  Le  tourte  de 

naturel.  groseille. 

Les  meringues  a  LYispei^ges. 

la  Chantilll 

Le  pintade  pique. 

Soupe  a  la  point  d'aspcrges. 

Rclev6  ;  I'oison  au  chou-croftte  a 

Tallemande. 

Les  ris  de  veau  Les  quenelles  de 

piques  gamis  volaille  a  la 

d*une  mac6doine.  touiouse. 

Poisson. 

Los  rougets  aux  fines  herbes. 

Kelev^  ;  selle  de  mouton  roti. 

DxUXliXE  SSRTICE. 

Les  petits  poulets. 
Les  genoise  L'asperges. 

glac^. 
Les  oeufs  des  Une  gel^e  de 

pluviers.  noyeau. 

Le  pintade  pique. 
Table  dec6t^. 
Les  croquettes  de  volaillet  I 


Potage  hochepoC  det  legumes  ct  toadoBi 
dcfcan. 

ReleT^ ;  les  petits  poulets  ii  la  toatome 

aiuttrufies. 
Les  c6te1ettc8  Let  filets  des  soles 

de  mouton.  saut^  a  la  maftie 

dni6teL 
Les  membres  de  La  compote  de 

Tolailles  aux  pois  pigeom  4 1'espag- 

d*aaperges.  nolo  da  champ. 

Poisson. 

Relev^  ;  le  quaitier  d'agnean  rdtL 

DsuxiiMB  Sbrvicb. 

Les  canetons  rAUs. 
Les  petits  pois.  Gel^e  du  rin. 

Les  tartelettes  des  L'asperges 

groseilles. 

Le  levraat  r6tL 


Soupe  a  la  reine. 
Relev^;  carr^  de  b<euf  a  la  J4 

QuATRB  ExTBin. 

Un  petit  poulet  C6telettes  de 

a  la  grillon.  poitrine  d^i^gnetsi- 

a  la  mar^chal. 
Compote  de  Petite  pftt6s 

pigeons  a  gamis  d'^minc^ 

Teepagnole.  de  ris  de  wean. 

Poisson. 

Lea  tranches  de  saumon  gamiea  de  merlaxi* 

frite. 

"  Relev6  ;  un  selle  de  mouton  rdtL ' 

Les  dindonneaux  r6tis. 
Les  petits  pois.  Gel^e  du  rin 

Tartelettes  gamies  aux  pens, 

de  cr^me  et  L'aspeiges. 

rhubarb. 

Les  canetons. 

Potage  a  la  julienne. 

Relev6 ;  un  quaitier  dYigneau  rotL 

Les  ris  de  venu  Casserole  au  rii 

piques  a  I'oseille.  arec  les  oruefi^e 

pluviers  et  piedi 
d'agneaux. 
Poisson. 
Les  merlans  au  gratin . 

Reler^  ;  un  aitch  bone  de  boeuf  booilH. 

Dxuxi&HB  Servicb. 

lies  poulets  roUs. 
Lc  marasquin  Une  salade 

u  la  crdme.  ^d'homard. 

Le  caneton. 
Side  table. 
Filets  de  soles  frits. 
Suet  pudding. 


BILLS  OF  rXKS. 


417 


Soupe  i  la  hoUandaiae. 

Balev^  :  les  petiti  pouleU  a  la  royale. 

Hachii  de  fileti  Frica«^e  de 

de  bffiuf  &  la  lapereau  auz 

portugaite.  champignons. 

ReleT^  le  telle  de  mouton  i6ti. 

DsuxiiMB  Sbbtiob. 

Lee  canetoDS  rdtis. 
L'aiperget.  Lee  genoiiee  glac£ 

au  gros  sacre. 
Cr6me  de  Lee  pommet  do 

ftamboiie.  terra  nouvellet. 

Les  pigeons  rdtis. 
Table  de  cdt6.    Petits  de  mouton  au  jus. 


JUNE. 


Soupe  a  la  hollandaise. 
Beler^  ;  les  petits  poulets  &  la  jardiniere. 

Quarts  Extbbks. 

Lea  cAtelettes  Les  filets  des  soles, 

d'agneau  glac^es         Saut^  u  la  maitre 
aux  haricots  Terts.  d  'hdtel. 

Lea  croquettes  de  Le  fricandeau 

rit  de  Teau  a  la         piqu6  a  roseille. 
reine. 

Poisson. 

Le  turbot  bouilli  et  des  merlans  frits. 

Releve;  de  bceuf  rdti  a  I'anglaiae. 

DEUXiiME  Sbrticb. 

Le  pintado  piqu6  roti. 
Lea  pois  au  Les  gaufres  a  la 

natural.  Chantilly,  gamis 

Le  boudin  a  de  fraises. 

I'aiigiaise.  L'asperges. 

Les  canetons  rOtis. 


Soupe  a  la  jardiniere. 
BeUer^;  let  petits  poulets  braises  ik  chou- 

fleur. 

QUATRE  EkTRBBS. 

Lea  cdtelettes  Saut6  de  ris  dc 

d^igneau  glac^  Teau  aux  haricots 

anx  pois.  verts. 

Lei  filets  de  soles  Le  fVicandcau 

i  la  mattre  dlidtel.         piqu6  aux  points 

d'asperges. 
Poisson. 
Le  turbot  et  des  merlans  frits. 
'   Relev^  ;  un  selle  de  mouton. 

DsuxiiMX  Sbrtick. 

Le  pintadc  r6ti. 
La  gel^e  aux  Les  petiu  pois  au 

(raises.  naturel. 

L*Bsperges.  La  cr6me  des 

groseillcs. 
Le  caneton  r6ti. 


Potage  i  la  printanidre. 
Reler^ ;  le  chapon  roti,  sauce  espagnole. 

QUATBB  EnTB&BS. 

Filets  de  bceui  en  Les  petits  fkt6» 

tranches  piques  et         gamis  de  filets  de 
gamis  de  pommes  soles  4  la  mattre 

de  terre.  d'hdtel. 

Les  poulets  Les  cAtelottes  de 

d^coup^  aux  p6is  mouton  glacte 

^tuv^es.  aux  concombres. 

Poisson. 
Spay  Troute. 
Reler^  ;  le  jamtx>n  brais^  aux  fere  de 
marais. 

Side  table. 
Koast  mutton. 
DsuxiiMB  Sbrtiob. 
Les  canetons  rdUs. 
La  gel^e  du  vin  Les  choux-fleurs 

gamie  de  fraise.  au  beurre. 

L'asperges.  La  tourte  de 

groseille. 
Le  pintado  r6ti. 

Soupe  a  la  hollandaise. 
Relev6  ;  un  carr^  de  Tenison  rdti. 

QuATRB  Entrees. 
Les  cdtelettes  Petits  poulets 

d'agneau  a  la  d6coup^  aux 

mar^chal.  petits  pois  6tuT6e8. 

Les  petits  pki^a  Les  ris  de  veau 

gamis  a  la  piqu6  a  Toeeilles. 

bechamel. 

Poisson. 
Le  turbot  garni  des  filets  des  soles. 
Rclev6 ;  la  poitrine  de  bceuf  a  la  printaniere. 
DBUXiiMB  Seeviob. 
Les  dindonncaux  piques. 
La  gel^  du  tin  Les  petits  pois  an 

gomie  du  pois.  naturel. 

Les  artichauts  a  Nougat  a  la 

ritalienne.  Chantilly. 

Le  levrnut  rdti. 

Potage  au  pur6e  d'asperges. 
Relev6;  les  poulets  brais^  aux  choux-fleurs. 
Quatrb  EIntebes. 
Le  fricandeau  Les  petits  pftt^s 

piqu6  u  roseille.  gamis  a  T^carlate. 

Le  gibelottes  de  Cotelettes  de 

lapereau  au  poitrine  d'agneau 

champignons.  aux  haricots  verts. 

Poisson. 
Spay  tmite. 
Relev^ ;  le  jambon  brais£*  aux  ^pinards. 
Side  table. 
Mouton  r6ti. 

Deuxi&mb  Service. 

Le  pintado  roti. 

Les  pois  au  naturel.         La  gelee  du  via* 

Le  panier  a  la  Une  salade 

Chantilly.  dliomard. 

Les  canetoof. 


£  £ 


418 


BIIiLS  OF  FABE. 


FoCag*  I  la  hoUandaiw. 
Bateri ;  im  poulets  at  laagua  &  la 
jardiniire. 
QuATBB  Esrain. 
C6tdettea  d*Bg-  Les  petita  ftktH  a 

nean  i  la  Tefpagnola. 

inaredial. 
Lea  ria  de  Tcau        La  marinade  des 
piqa^  &  I'oieille.         pieda  de  Teaa. 
Poinon. 
Las  tranclies  du  numon  a  la  tartare. 
Relev^ ;  le  bouilU  beeaf  &  Tanglaise. 

DsUXliXB  SlKTICE. 

Le  pintade  piqu6. 
.'   Lm  poll  Tcrti.  La  tourte  aux 

Le  boudin  aux  groteille. 

laiains  a  Tanglaise.  L^asperges. 

Les  canetons  rdtis. 


Potage  au  pur^e  des  poii  Terts. 
Reler^  ;  im  longe  de  Teau  &  la  bechamel. 

QuATRs  Eifraixa. 
Petits  pkUn  garnis  Colettes  de 

d'dminc^  de  ris  mouton  pannes 

de  Teau.  aux  haricots  Terta. 

,  Un  fticandeau  Casserole  au  ris 

i  Tosdlie.  aTec  pau  de 

Tolaille. 
Poisson* 
Spay  truite. 
Kelev6  ;  un  quartier  d'agneav  r6ti. 

DsuxiibiB  Sertioe. 

Les  canetons  rdtis. 
Gel^  du  vin  et  Petits  pois  au 

fraise.  nature!. 

L'aspeiges.  Tourte  de 

groseilles. 
Le  pintade  piqu^. 


Potage  aux  legumes. 
IleleT6  ;  le  quartier  d*aeneau  rdtL 
QOATRB  EirniiBR. 
.  La  fricass^  de  Les  cdtelettes  de 

lapereau  an  poitrine  d*agneau 

champignons.  pan^s. 

Les  ris  de  veau  Les  croquettes  de 

piques  &  I'oseille.         Tolailles  a  la  reine. 
Poisson. 
Le  tnrbot  bonilli. 
,  Relev6  ;  aitch  bone  of  beef. 

Deuxi^mb  Service. 

Les  dindonneaux  r6ti. 
Xes  tartelettes  au        Les  ortichauts  firits. 
fraise  mont^. 
L'aspeiges.  Lagel^e  du  rln. 

Le  leyraut  rdti. 
Side  table. 
Peas,  ne«r 
potatoes,  ccc. 


Soope  i  la  flananda. 

Rele?6 ;  ka  jMuleta  ei  lanfod  i^  la. 

printanidre. 

QvATRB  Eimin. 

Les  cAtelettea  de  Lea  ftf&M  pAt^ 

mouton  glacte  an        gamis  das  ris  de 

concombra.  Teas  au  enprlnie. 

Les  filets  de  Lea  filets  de 

merlans    &  la  boeuf  faqu^  ssnos 

hollandaise.  an  pbiTxade. 

Poisson. 

Lea  rougets  sauce  i  ntaSenne  at  des 

merlans  frita. 

DsuxiiHE  Sbrtici. 

Le  pintade  tdtL 

Gel6e  gamie  de  Lea  pois  an 

fraise.  natnreL 

LVisperges.  Le  truite  de 

IP^oattUa. 
Les  canetona  rfttfs. 


Potage  an  pur6e  dea  pois  Terts. 
ReleT^  i  U  poitrine  de  bcauf  i  la  pio- 

taniera. 
Les  cdtelettes  PaCiia  p&t^  9000 

d*agneau  glac^         daa  filata  da  fohi 
au  poia  d'asperaes.  &  la  mahrs 

d-bSfesL 
Le  poulet  d^coup^        Saut^  deTaaa^ls 
aux  poia  ^tuv^.  muUUL 

Poisson. 
Spar  trout. 
Reler^  ;  un  selle  de  nootoiu 
DauxiiMB  Sbetiob. 
Les  dindonneaux  rbCia. 
Salade  d'homards.  Un  toiban  to 

gftteaudegioi 
sanoaik 
QiantiUj. 
Gel^e  du  vin.  Lea  p<ns  teitf 

gamie  de  fraise.  ^tur^es. 

Le  lerraut. 

Potage  au  pur^  de  pois  Terts. 
Relev^  ;  le  carr6  de  b<ruf  k  la  flamso^^ 

Qdatre  ENTRias. 
Cdtelettes  de  poi-  Tendons  de  fon 

trine  d'agneau  a  la         aux  po»  6tav^ 

•  mar6chal. 
Petits  Tol-au-vent  Sant£  da  ToliiUs 

gamis  des  filets  au  supreme  tax 

de  soles.  haricots  mts« 

Poinon. 
Le  turbot  bouilli  et  merlans  fiits. 
Kelev6  ;  un  selle  de  mouton  r6ti. 
DbuxiAmb  Sbrtiob. 
Le  pintade. 
La  gel^e  du  Tin  Les pttssu . 

^mie  du  pain.  naturel 

Choux-fleius  au  Les  g&leaux  aux 

creme.  groseilles. 

Les  canetona  idtia. 


BILLS  OP  FARE. 


41» 


Fotsge  i  la  printani^. 
Relef^;  juiboo  brait6  auz  ftfe  de 


C6telettCT  d'ag-  Petiti  o&t^s  de 

naau  paa^ef  anz  Tolaille  a  la 

liaricota  Tertf.  relne. 

Lea  crcaMa  de  Le  fticandeau 

ponleta  atix  poll  piqu6  a  roaeille. 

PoisMn. 

Spay  truite. 

Relef6;  leapetits  poolets  aux  chouz-fleurs. 

DnixiiiiB  SiBvica. 

Le  pintade  r6ti. 
La  gel^  do  fin  Lea  poii  au 

ganie  da  ftaiit.  naturel. 

Lea  ariidMuiU  i  la  La  tourte  de 

hollandiiwk  grofleilles. 

Lea  canetona  rdtis. 


Soupe  2  la  printani^re. 
Rdey€  ;  lea  poulvts  choux.fleun. 

Meandeau  piqu^         Lee  filets  de  aolca 
i  iVweQlea.  a  la  hollandaise. 

*  Lea  petits  plt^s  Les  tendons  de 

[  de  voUulle  aux  Teau  garnis  d*une 

elMmp%iions.  mac^doine. 

Poisaon. 
Dublin  bay  baddock. 
BeIeT6  ;  selle  de  mouton  r6ti. 

DiirxtiMK  Skrtick. 

Le  pintade  r6ti. 
GeUe  dn  Tin  Les  pois  ^tav^es. 

fumie  de  ftaise. 

Lei  aitidiaats  Lea  meringues  a 

garniB  des  points  la  Chantilly. 

d'aqtema. 

Les  canetons  r6tis. 


Sotipe  au  vuT^  des  pois  Terts. 
Raleve ;  le  cnapon  T6ti  &  I'anglaise. 

QuAni  EiiTaaES. 

CMdettes  de  Le  ris  de  Teau 

mooUm  panto  &  pique  aux  pois 

la  mar^chal.  ^tuvto. 

L«  tendons  glacis  La  fricass^  do 

i  la  printaniire.  poulets  aux 

artichouts. 
Poisson. 
Le  turbot  bouilli. 
BeleT^ ;  le  bceuf  rAU. 

Dauxiixs   baavicB. 

La  gel^  du  Tin  Les  petits  pois 

an  ftaise.  ^tuvees. 

Choox-fleurs  au  Boudin  aux 

bcurre.  raisins. 

Les  canetons  r6ti. 

E 


Potage  au  por^  des  pob  rerts. 
Relef  6  ;  le  quartier  d*iignean  roCi. 

QUATEI  EMTa&ES. 

Les  tendons  de  Lee  petite  Tol-an- 

Teau  aux  legumea.  Tents  gamis  dea 

filets  de  soles. 
La  fricsas^e  des  Cdlelettes  de 

poulets  aux  culs  mouton, 

d'artichants.  glac^j  aux  con« 

combres* 
Le  turbot  bouilli  et  dea  merluns  firits. 
Relevi  ;  le  carr^  de  b<euf. 

DurxiiMB  SxBTicK. 

Lea  dindonneaux  rdtis. 

La  gel6e  du  Tin.  Choux-fleurs  au 

beurre. 
Les  pais  dtUTto.  Les  carrier  i  la 

Cbantilly. 
Le  caneton  rdti. 


Potage  aux  pois  verts. 

Relev6  ;  les  petits  poulets  aux  cboux- 

fleurs. 

Cdtelettes  de  mou-        La    fricass^    de 

ton  sautd  aux  poulets  gamie 

concombres.  d*articbauta. 

Saut^  de  ris  de  Les  tendons  gar- 

veau  aux  haricots        nis  a  la  jardiniere. 

Terts. 

Poisson. 

Collared  salmon. 

Relev^^ ;  le  selle  de  mouton. 

DKUxiim  Serticb. 
Le  pintade  rdti. 
La  gel^    du  Tin  Salade  dlio- 

gamie  de  fraise.  mards. 

I^  pois  au  natu-         Toute  des  cerisca 
rel.  a  Tanglaise. 

Les  canetons  rdtis. 


Potage  a  la  jardiniere. 
Reletd  ;  le  carr^  de  Teau  r6ti. 

QUATBl  EXTR&BS. 

Cdtelettes  de  poi-         Petits  pat^gar- 
trine  d*agneau  nis  d*un  salpioon. 

panw. 
FricasB^  des  pou-  Ris  de  Teau 

lets  aux  diam-  piqu^  aux  pois 

pignona.  ^tuvto. 

Poinon. 
Spay  troute. 
RelcT^ ;  le  jambon  braisd  aux  feTe  de 
uarais. 
DxvxiixB  Sbrtick. 
Le  pintade  piqn^  r6ti. 
Une  cr*mo  au  Les  petits  pois 

fhiiic.  ^tuvto. 

liCS  artichauts  au         Les  g&tenux  d'ar- 
beurre.  tois, 

Les  canetons  rdtis. 

e2 


420 


BILLS  OF  7AJU. 


Potage  «  U  hollandaiae. 
Relev^ ;  le  qu«rtier  d'agneaa  rdtL 

QuATBi  Ehtb&h. 
CdtelettM  de  mou-        Pedti  p&t^  gai^ 
Um  jmn4m  anz  nit  det  filets  de 

haricots  Terts.  tuibot. 

Sauttf    de   ris   de  Croquettes  de 

▼eau  aax  pois  Tolaille  aux 

^tuv^es.  champignons. 

PoisBon. 
Le  turbot. 
Relevd ;  le  bonif  braisd  i  la  flamande. 

DsuxiiHB  Skbtioc 

La   gelde  du  Tin  Choux-fleuis  au 

aux  fraises.  beuire. 

;  Les  pois  aux  na-  La  tourte  de 

turel.  cerises. 

Le  lerraut  r6ti. 


Potage  a  la  hollandaise. 
Belerd ;  une  poitrine  de  bceuf  a  la  jardi- 
niere. 

QUATRB  EkTEBBS. 

C6telettes  d'ag-  La   fncassde    de 

neau  pandes  a  la  Tolailles  aux 

mardchaL  champignons. 

Emincd  des  ceufs  Les  ris  Je  Teau 

i  la  portugaise.  piqud  aux  petits 

pois  dtuvdes. 
Poiason. 
Relevd ;  le  selle  de  mouton  r6ti. 

DauxiixB  Skbticb. 

Les  petits  poulets  rdtis. 

La  cr^me  de  Les  pois  au  natu- 

fraise.  rel. 

Les  choux-fleurs  Les  R&teaux  a  la 

au  beurre.  d'artois. 

Le  levraut  r6ti. 


Potage  a  la  printanicre. 
Relevd;  les  poulets  et  langue  aux  choux- 

fleuTS. 

QuATRs  Ejsrvikia, 
Les  tendons  de  CAtelettcs  d'o^- 

veau  glacds  aux  neau  sautd  aux 

macddoine.  pois. 

Les    croquettes    a  Les  ris  de  vcau 

la  reine.  piques  u  I'oseille. 

Poiason. 
Turbot  boiled. 
Relevd  ;  le  selle  de  mouton  roti. 

Dsuxi^ME  Sebyice. 

Les  dindonncaux  rotis. 

La  gelde  du  vin  Les  pois  nu  na- 

gamie  du  fmiae.  turel. 

Les  choux-fleurs  Yol-au-vent  des 

au  parmesan.  cerises. 

Les  canetons  r6tis. 


Poti^  i  la 
Relerd;  lea  poulots  et  lattguftainz  l^reca 

(^UATBB  Eimin. 
GAtdeCtflt  d'ag-  Lm  ik  6^  ym 

neaa  giacdei  aux         piqiM  ^  t^asBiUe. 

pois. 
Pctiti  pktM  gar-  Le  caneitoa  d^ 

ak  d'emhieds  de  ooup^  i  la  ftk- 

Tolailles.  tani^. 

PoiMon.  J 

Relevd  ;  le  telle  de  mouton  rdtL 

DBuxfim  SimTica. 

Le  pintade  r6tL 
Une  cr#me  au  Lea  pois  an  m- 

fraise.  tufeL 

Une  ialade  de  san-  La  toorte  da 

mon. 

Un  levraut  rAti. 


Potage  aux  purde  dea  eonoonhns. 

Relevd ;  le  pitd  chaud  dca  poulets  i 

lluglaise. 

QUATEB  EBTBil 


Lea  palais  de  bauf  Lea  xii  de  fccn 

aux  truffes.  ^     pique  d  I'oidlle. 

Fricassde  des  Petits  pitii  gpr- 

volailles  aox  pois.  nis  ^ntBcd  de 


Poiswm. 
Relevd  ;  le  selle  de  moutoii  idti. 

Dbuxi^xb  Sbbtiob. 

Les  canetons. 
Une  cr^me  au  Let  p<MB  an  na- 

fraise.  turd. 

Un  chou-fleur  u  Une  tourte  des 

la  bdchamel.  groseilles. 

Le  levraut  r6ti. 


Potage  aux  ooncombres  a  la  holiaadsise. 

Relevd  ;  les  poulets  et  langue  aux 

choux-fleurs. 

QUATEB  EBTRin. 

Les  palais  de  Un  fSncandcaa 

bcDuf  aux  truffes.  piqud  aux  poif 

COtelettes  de  dtuvdes. 

poitrine  glacdes  a        Les  croquettes  a  Is 
la  jardiniere.  reine. 

Poisson. 
Le  turbot  bouilli. 
Relevd  ;  le  rosbif  a  Tanglaise. 

Sbcohdb  Seryioi. 

La  poularde. 
La  gelde  du  vin,         LeapoisannatuieL 
garnie  des  fraisea. 

Une  salade  des  Le  bondin  anx 

filets  d*un  turbot.  raisiiia. 

Les  pigeons  rdtis. 


BILL8  OF  TARE. 


431 


PMtge  i  k  jaidinidre. 
Bdev^ ;  lc8  petits  ponlett  i  la  piintani^re. 

Ub  ftkaadcan  i         Les piUaitdc bceuf 

.  I'owUle.  aux  tmffea. 

Let  poaleU  d^-  Cdtalettes 

eonpteaupoia  d\igneau  pan^at 

tefte  &  r^carUte.      aux  baricota  rerta. 

Poisson. 

Rele?^ ;  le  jaroboo  bnis^  au  &rce  de 

naiaia. 

SaCXMTDB  SutTIOB. 

Let  dindonneaux  rdtis. 
Une  cr^me  det  Let  choox-fleun 

fiaitei.  aubeurre. 

Lea  pob  to? to.  Une  tourte  det 

ceritet. 
Let  pigeona  lotit. 


Potage  a  la  julienne. 

Beler^ ;  let  petitt  poulett  et  langue 

aux  cboux-fleun. 

QUATRE  EmTBBES. 

Cdtelettea  Let  petite  pit^ 

d*agneaa  glacto  a  gamit  d'^mince 

la  minute.  de  volaille. 

PUfltt  det  aoleiy  Lea  tranchet  de 

aaut^  a  la  boeuf  a  la 

If^  boUandaise.  jardiniere. 

Poisson. 
Relev^;  le  telle  de  mouton  r6ti. 

SaOOVDB  SXRTIOX. 

Let  dindonneaux. 

Lta  meringuet  Let  pois  au 

i  fat  Cbantilly.  naturel. 

Jutk  aalade  det  Une  tourte  det 

bomaida.  groteillet. 

Le  levraut  rdti. 


Potage  au  pur^e  aux  poit  verts. 

Bderi ;  pAt6  cbaud  det  pigeons  a 

Tanglaiac. 

QlJATRX  ExTBi^ES. 

FOala  dea  tolea  Cdtelettet 

i  la  mattre  d'agneau  glaces 

d^dtel.  aux  conoombre& 

Saat^  de  Teau  4  Let  poulete  d6- 

1ft  mar^cbal.  coup^  aux  pois 

^tuv6ea. 
Poitton. 
Relev6 ;  le  telle  de  mouton  r6ti. 

SfiOOXDB  Skbtiob. 
Let  petitt  poulete  r6tit. 
Ganfrrt  a  la  Let  haricots  verts 

Qiantilly  aux  a  la  poulette. 


Letariichaute 
§uiiiad*une 
mac^doine. 

Le  lenant  tdtu 


Une  tourte  dea 
groaeill( 


Potage  i  la  printaniere. 
Relev^  ;  longe  de  veaa  rAd  &  la  b^cbamel. 

QUATRB  ENTBilS. 

Let  poulete  d6-  Cdtelettet 

coupes  anx  poit.         d'asneau  pan6et  a 

UmaricbaJ. 
Le  ris  de  vean  Petite  pat^  a  la 

piqu^  a  I'oteiUe.  reine. 

Poiston. 
Relev^ ;  jambon  brais^  aux  6pinardt. 

Sbooitde  Sxbtigi. 

^  Let  petite  poulets. 
Les  pois  an  La  gel6e  de  fraiae. 

naturel. 
Une  tourte  det  Unesalade 

groteillet.  d*homard. 

Lea  canetons  rdtis. 


Potage  a  la  jardiniere  aux  tendons 

de  veau. 

Relev^  ;  le  culotto  de  bceuf,  sauce  tomata. 

QUATEE  ExTRiES. 

Un  fricandeau  Cdtelettet 

piqu^  aux  pois  d'agneau  panto 

6tuvto.  aux  baricota  verts. 

Les  petite  poulete  Saut^  de  ris  de 

a  la  toulouse.  veau  k  T^carlate. 

Poisson. 
Ilelev^ ;  le  selle  de  mouton  roti. 

SxooNDE  Service. 

Les  canetons. 
La  geI6e  du  vin  Les  pois  aux 

aux  fnuses.  naturel. 

Les  petite  homards  La  tourte  des 

6tuT6es  au  vin.  groseilles« 

Les  pigeons  rdtis. 


Potage  a  la  brunoise. 
Rclev6  ;  les  poulete  et  langue  aux    -, 
l^mes. 

QuATRE  EXTEi^BS. 

Un  fricandeau  Petite  p4t^ 

piqu^  aux  pois  gamis  d'lminc6 

^tuvto.  de  soles. 

La  teta  det  ris  de  L'^minc^  &  la 

veaa  aux  barioote  polonnaise. 

vcxta. 

Poiston. 

Le  turbot. 

Relev^  ;  le  bceuf  r6ti  a  Tonglaise. 

SxooNDE  Service. 

Let  dindonneaux. 
Los  artichaute  Boudin  au 

gamis  aveo  raisin, 

huricote  verts. 
Les  g&teaux  a  la  Les  petite  poii. 

d'aitois. 

Le  levfRUt  r6ti. 


}4S2 


BII^LS  OV  9ABE. 


Potato  i  la  jnUeniM. 

Retef^ ;  p&Uh  diMicIt  dot  ponlflti  k 

I*MiglaiM. 

.    C6teletlcsde  Gaiwtoiitd^eoap^ 

moaton  pannes  aoz  pois  ^tuT^es. 

*  anx  haricots  Tcrti.  PeCiti  pouIeU 

Eacalopedeturban        bniia^a  aux  chonx- 
&  la  crdme.  fleura. 

Pomon. 
Reler^  ;  ua  g%ot  d'agnaau  r6tL 

SSOOHDB  SiRTIOB. 

Lea  dindonneaax. 
La  gel^e  du  vin  Petits  bomards 

anx  fniaet.  ituT^es. 

Laa  poiSk  Una  tourto  des 


Lea  pigeons  rAtia. 

Pota^e  &  la  jardiniera. 
Reler^ ;  les  poulet8.biiu8&  4  la  printaniere. 

QVATftX  EiiTEias. 
Lea  ris  de  vaau  Petita  p&t^  gamis 

piqu^  aux  pois  das  filets  des 

6tav6e.  aolea. 

'  Mouton  hadiis         Cdtelettesd*agneau 
i  la  portugaiaa.  glac^es  nu  con- 

combre. 
Poisson. 
ReleT^ ;  le  sella  de  moaton  r6ti. 

DsuxiiMB  Skrtioi. 
Les  dindonneaux  r6ti8. 
Une  tourte  des  Les  artichauta 

groaeilles.  gamis  d*ane 

mac^dome. 
Une  salade  de  Les  gftteaux  a  la 

saumon.  d'artoiae. 

Le  leviaut  r6ti. 


JULY. 


Potage  aox  par6e  des  pois  verts. 
Relev6  ;  le  quartier  d'agneau  rdti. 

QUATES   ENTRixS. 

Saut^  de  ▼oUille  Cdtelettes  de  poi- 

i  r^cariate.  trine  d'agneaa  a 

la  mont6. 

Les  petits  pftt^s  Saut6  de  ris  de 

gamis  des  filets  des        veau  aux  haricots 

Boles.  verts. 

Poisson. 

,    Relere ;  aitch  boae  de  boeof  bouilli. 

Seoondb  Sxetick. 
Lea  dindonneaax. 
Une  tomie  des  Les  artichants 

groaeilles.  i  Htalienne. 

Salitdeda     ^*'       Uaeci^mede 
aaumon. 

Les  oaastona  rotia. 


Potato  anx  pnrfiea  dM  po&s  verta. 

EaUfT6 ;  le  pM  dbmd  dsa  povleli  t 

Panglalw. 

QVATRl  EiTsiv. 

Ua  fticandeatt  Croq[a«tlsa  dea  m 

piqti4  i  I'oaeille.  de  ^rem  i,  H  nbt. 

Pettta  pitis  gamis         Ofttelettca  At- 

d'^nhwideirolailles.       naraanzptm 

pda. 
Pokwm. 
Relev6 ;  le  sella  de  montoa  rdtL 

Smoitab  SskTioi. 

Les  oattekooa  idtis. 

La  gel6e  da  Tin  an        Lea  bariDOCs  varts. 

frwm.  alapoolette. 

Un  magnonnaiae  de         Una  toozCe  d« 
saamon.  groseillea. 

Le  pintado  piqn6  r6tL 

Potage  i  laUuaoiaa. 
Rele?^;  lea  petita  poaleCa  ii  la  pumtiKia 

QvATma  Simia. 
Unfiicandeaa  Uii^-anMMity 

piqo^  aox  pois  gani  d*diniBo( 

6iuT6e.  d«  Tolaflla. 

Lea  croqaettea  des        G^lelettaa  da  p«h 
risdeTeau.  triaeila 


Poisson. 
RdeT^  ;  un  jambon  btaiai 
maisoQ. 

Side  tablob 
Loin  mutton. 


fifwda 


Sbcondb  Sbbttoi.  ' 
Les  canetons  totia. 
La  gel^  da  Tin  an        Lettandie  damn- 
fraise.  men  en  salade. 

Les  haricots  verts  Une  toorte  des 

a  la  ponlette.  giuauQka  at  fiam- 


Les  pigeons  rdtia. 

Potage  aux  pnr6e  dea  poia. 
Relcve;  les  poulets  et  langoeanx  MjguiDSS. 

QVATRB  ENTAiaS. 

Cdteletteed*agneau  Lea  petita  pAtte 

pan6  a  le  pauvre  dea  lia  de  veao. 

bomme.  L'eaeaUopea  de 

Un  fricandeau  moaton  a  ia  son- 
piqu6  a  Toseille.  fai< 


Le  aananon  an  BBtnraL 

SBooirDB  SnnoB. 

Relevi ;  un  sirioin  de  boenf  rfttL 

Lea  dindonneaax. 

La  gelee  da  vin  Lea  b<wtw4» 

an  frnit. 
Les  artichants  i  Le  boafln  a 

ritalienne.  ain  t  IVi^^ake. 

jLe  laiVMBB  intb 


BILLS  OV  FAJU. 


4U 


Potage  atuc  dioux* 
Relsf  e  I  ki  pooleU  bnus6  aux  l^gomet. 

Sftttl^deTolaillflaa         C6telett«8  d'ftg- 
•oindiBe  aux  neau  glacte  auz 

Jiaiioou  Torts.  ooncombrei. 

Lw  iilets  de  ? eau  Filelt  dei  meiw 

pt^B^f  aiuL  pois  lam  k  la 

(tav^es.  holiandaiie. 

Ponton* 
Le  saumon  a  la  taitare. 
Relevi ;  un  ffigoi  de  mouton  rod. 
Side  table. 
Bacon  and  beans. 

SSOOHDB  SeKTIOI. 

Les  canetons  rotis. 
La  gel6e  da  vin.  Let  artkliaQts  au 

beiirre. 
Let  haricots  rerts.      tJn  gltteaux  au  gros 

sauce. 
Le  levraut  rdti. 

Potage  a  la  fiiubonne. 

Bclar^  ;  le  p&t^  chaud  des  poulets  a 

l^nglaise. 

QVATRJB   £lfTRiE8. 

CAtelettes  d'agneau       PetiU  pAt^  gamit 
g^bsiaa  aux  eoa-  des  filets  des 

oomfans.  merlans  4  la 

hollandaise. 
Les  tranches  de  Les  ris  de  veau 

saumon  ala  tartars.        piqu^  a  roseiile. 

Poisson. 
ReloT^;  le  jambon  aux  fetes  de  maison. 

Side  Uble. 
Loin  of  mutton. 

SiooVDB  Sertici. 
Les  canetons  rdtis. 
La  gdfo  dn  Tin  au  Lee  artidiauts  a 

fraiie.  ntalienne. 

Les  haricots  verts  Une  tourte  des 

i  la  poulette.  groseilles  et  fram- 

boiKs. 
Les  dindonneaux  r6tis. 


Potage  a  la  julienne. 
Bilawt;  le  poiirine  de  bceuf  a  la  jardini^a. 

QUATEK   EXTXixS. 

Las  ilett  de  ? eau  Les  croquettes  a 

jMpids  a  I'oseille.  la  reine. 

t/SaoBtk  de  bceuf       Cdtelettes  d'agneau 
a  la  portugaise.  pan6  a  la  sobiese. 

Poisson. 
BeleT6;  le  selle  da  aoaton  r6ti. 

SXCOXPB  SXXTIOB. 

Les  peiits  poulets  v6tis. 
La  gaUa  du  tu  au  Les  baiicots 

iraise.  ?erta. 

La  — iTionasiss  de  Biscuit  a  la 

Chantilly. 

Las  BJiiQM  l4tM. 


Macaroni  soup. 
Rem«       Capon  a  la  financiere. 

Sweetbreads  Mutton  cutlets  j 

irith  stewed  peas.  a  Titalieane. 

Rissoles  au  Vol-au-rent  &  la 

salpicon.  reine. 

Trout,  Hollandaise  sauce. 
Rem.  Saddle  of  mutton. 

SlOOXB    C0UX8X. 

Potted  grouse. 
Cherry  tart.  Artichokes. 

French  beans.  Cabinet  puddiqg. 

Roast^turkey  poults. 


Green  pea  soup. 
Rem.     Two  chickens  a  la  reine. 
Sweetbreads  a  la         Cutlets  of  lamb  i 

financiere.  la  jardiniere. 

Saute  of  fiUets  of        Casserolettes  of  rice 
mutton  and  a  la  reine. 

cucumber. 

Fish. 
Rem.  Leg  of  mutton* 

Ducklings  roast. 
Pastry.  Macaroni. 

Small  omelets  Noyeau  cream.  . 

u  ritalienne. 

Pigeons  roast. 

Soup  a  la  jardiniere. 
Rem.      Tongue  and  two  chickens 
braised. 
Stewed  pigeons  Grenadins  of  veai 

Italienne.  and  sorrel  sauce* 

Haricot  of.  Fillets  of  soles 

mutton.  Hollandaise. 

•Fish. 
Rem.     Saddle  of  mutton  roast.  | 
Secohd  CouBsa. 
Roast  turkey  poults. 
Pastry.  French  beans. 

Pess.  Cunaattart. 

Roast  ducklings. 


Soup  cred* 
Rem.  Ham  braised. 

FlUets of  ducks  Petit  pltlaof 

glac6.  chicken. 

Cststrnlettes  of  Pigeon  ItalieuMb 

rice  4  la  reine. 

Brill  and  filleto  of  turbot. 
Rem.        Fillets  of  veal  roast. 
SXCOMO  Couxsx. 
Roast  grouse. 
Apricot  tart.  Fillets  of  soles. 

MscBfoni.  Qiantilly  of 


Boast  chickensL 
Side  table. 
Keck  of  muttos  baflad. 


42^ 


BIUA  OV  TAB& 


lAA. 


Soup  Julienne. 
Rem.  Stewed  beef  and  cucumber  nuce. 
Petite  pktH  i  la  Cuny  of  rabbit. 

reine. 
Cntleta  of  mutton  Blanqnette  of 

nuce  piquante.  foirla 

Trouty  Hollandaxse  aanoe. 
Rem.       Roast  leg  of  mutton. 
Skoond  C0VB8I. 
Green  gooee. 
Pastry.  Artichokes.  1 

Peas  &  la  Apple  a  la 

Franpaise.  meiingue. 

Dressed  crab. 

Soup  Julienne. 
Rem.    Tongue  and  two^chickena. 
Casserolettes  of  rice         Blanquettet  of 

a  la  relne.  Teal  and 

Cutlets  of  Iamb  mushrooms.^ 

and  cucumbers.  Pigeons  Italienne. 

Salmon  a  la  Tartare. 
Rem.        Leg  of  mutton  roast. 
Sboond  COUBSI. 
Roast  turkey  poults. 
Rem.  Souffle. 

Apricot  tart.  French  beans 

I^^and  sorreL  bechamel. 

Cabinet  pudding. 
Dressed  crab. 

Soup  crsd. 
Trout. 
Rem.       Poularde  a  la  jardiniere. 
Fricandeau  with  Croquettes  of 

sorrel.  salpicon. 

Curry  of  rabbit.  Saut^  of  sweet- 

breads. 
Fried  whiting. 
Rem.  Roast  beef.  ^ 

Second  Coubse. 
Roast  quails. 
I  Plum  pudding.  Stewed 

Artichokes.  cucumbers. 

Italienne  cream. 
Koast  ducklings. 

Potage'a  la  hollandaise. 
Relev^ ;  les  pouleta  et  langue  de  boraf. 

QUATRE   EnTRBES. 

Un  fricandeau  Cdtelettes  d'ag- 

piqu6  a  I'oseille.  neau  pan^. 

Les  croquettes  a  L'dminc^  de  yo- 

la  reine.  laille  des  ocufs. 

Poisson. 
ReleT^  ;  le  bonif  r6ti. 
DEUxiiiiE  Service. 
Les  canetons. 
Le  boudin  au  Les  haricots  verts, 

raisin.  Les  meringues  a 

Les  artichauts.  la  Chantilly. 

Les  pigeons  r^tis. 


YemiieeUlaiiip. 

Fllletf  of  lolei^  amioe  mat tra  d1i6tel. 

Rem.  Roulade  of  vval,  cncmnber  wnm. 

Saut6  of  sweet-  CroqncMe  il  k 

breads  and  ■  leinA. 

mnshiooma. 

Petit  pM  of  Hntton  eotleli 

chioken.  a  laaobisse. 

Haddocki  broiled. 

Rem.  Roast  mutton. 

SaooifD  Consn. 

Turkey  poults  roast. 
Apples  and  rice  liaoaronL 

a  la  meringue. 

Stewed  Paatiy. 

cucumbera. 

Roast  leveret. 


Potage  aux  pur^e  des  pois. 
Relev6 ;  le  gigot  do  moaton  rAti. 

QUATRB  BlTTBiEB. 

CAtelettes  Lea  croquettes  a 

d'agneau  glac^  la  reine. 
aux  eonoombres. 

Saut^  de  volaiUe  i  Hadns  de  bof 

l*6carlate  aux  aux  craft, 
haricots  vertsL 

Poisson. 

Releve ;  aitch  bone  de  boraH 

DEUxiiME  Sbrvicb. 

Ln  poularde  pique  r6tie. 
La  gel^e  du  vin  Haricots  verts  a  la 

aux  fruits.  poulette. 

Une  saUde  de  Une  tourte  des  gro- 

saumon.  seilles  et  fraises. 

Les  pigeons  rdtis. 


Potage  aux  pur6e  dea  pois. 

Releve ;  les  poulets  et  langue  a  la  b^ 
chameL 

QUATRX  EnTBBES. 

Cdtelettes  Un  fHcandeau 

d'agneau  glacis  piqu6  a  Toseille. 

nux  concombres. 
Petits  pit  6s  gamis  Saut^  de  volaille 

d'un  salpicon.  aux  haricots  veits. 

Poisson. 

Relev^  ;  le  gigot  de  mouton  r6ti.  ] 
DBUxiiMB  Service. 
Les  canetons  r6tis. 
La  gel6e  du  vin  au         Les  artichauts  a 

fruit  Titalienne. 

Haricots  verts  a  la  Un  gateau  mux 

poulette.  gros  sauce  a  la 

ChantUly. . 
Lea  pigeons  rdtis. 


VittB  OF  PASe. 


m 


Potage  mx  ooBcombret. 

1UI««^;  1m  pooleto  el  kngne  i  Tanglaise. 

QvAtms  ERTsia. 

Bknqoette  de  Cdtelettei  poitrine 

Tew  i  r^carlate.  d'agneaa  pan^ 

8UX  biricots  TerU. 
Lee  pigeons  auz  Petiti  pht6s  de 

«iKMix.  Tokulle  I  la  reine. 

f  PoiMon. 
Leturboi. 

ReleT6;lebflrafrdtL 

DsuxiAn  Skrtiob. 

Let  dindonneaiix  piqu4f. 
La  ge16e  da  Tin.         Let  haricott  Tertt. 
Lenu^onnaiBede  Une  tourte  det 

taamon.  groteiUet  et  fram- 

boiiee. 
'  Let  canetont  rdtia. 


Potage  a  la  hollandaite. 

Relev^ ;  le  p&t6  chaud  det  poolcts  a 

Tanglaise. 

C6telettet  Lea  pigeont  brait^ 

d^igiieao  glac^  aux  choux. 

aux  artichauts. 

Let  lit  de  veau      *"  Lea^cioqaettet  de 
piqu^  a  roecUle.         Tolaille  a  la  reine. 
PoisMn. 
Le  saumon  a  la  tartare. 

Belevd ;  le  sclle  de  mouton  rdti.'^  ] 

DxUXliME  SiRTICB. 

Let  dindonneaux  r6tii. 
Une  cr^me  det  Let  harioota  Terts. 

ftamboiaes. 
Cboux-fleun  au  Une  tourte  det 

parmeean.  cerises. 

Le  levraut  rdti. 

Potage  au  Termicelli  k  la  Windsor. 

BeleT^  ;  let  poulett  et  langue  de  bcnif. 

QUATRI  EsTRi^n. 

C6telettet  Let  pigeont  aux 

d'agneau  glacis  choux. 

snz  ariichautt. 

Lm  croquettet  &  Un  fricandeau 

la  reine.  lauce  a  Toteille. 

Poisson. 
Saumon  a  la  tartare. 

ReleT^;  le  gigot  de  mouton  rdti. 

Deuxi&ms  Serticb. 

Let  dindonneaux  piquet. 
Let  ineringuet  a  Let  haricott  Terts. 

la  Chantillj.  Vne  toarte  det 

Vegetable  marrow. 

Le  leTimnt  rdti. 


Potage  i  la  hollandaite.. 
ReleT6 ;  le  chapon  et  langue  de  bonil 

QUATRB  EKTRiES. 

Cdtelettet  Let  pigeont  brait^ 

d'agneaa  aox  con-  anx  chonx. 

combrea. 
Let  poulett  d^  Hachit  de  mootoo 

ooupite  aux  poit  aux  oeuft. 

^tuT^et. 

Poitwn. 
Saumon  a  la  tartare. 
ReleT^  ;]e  boeufrdti. 

DSUXI&MB  SXRTICR. 

Let  poulet  brurere. 
Le  boudin  au  Vegetable  mar- 

raisin  a  I'knglaise.  row. 

Let  haricott  Tertt.  Let  gaufiet  k  la 

Cbantilly. 
Let  canetont  r^tis. 


Potage  &  la  jardiniere. 
Relev6  ;  poitrine  de  bonif. 

QUATRl  ElfTREBS. 

Les  grenadins  de         Poulets  brait^  &  la 
Teau  a  la  d'orsay.  printaniere. 

Le  Tisage  de  Cdtelettes 

cochon  aux  feTet         d'agneau  aux  poit 
de  marait.  ^tuT^et. 

Poisson. 
LeturboO 
ReleT^ ;  le  gigot  de  mouton  rdti. 

DsuxiiME  Serttob. 

Les  dindonneaux. 
Les  artichauts  a  la  Une  tourte  des 

hollandaise.  cer'^ses. 

Une  crdme  des         Les  verts  haricots, 
framboiset. 

Le  levraut  rdti. 


Potage  a  la  jardiniere. 
Relev^  ;  le  chapon  et  langue  de  boraf. 

QUATRS  EnTRBES. 

OUelettet  Petitt  p4t6s  au 

d'agneau  aux  pois  salpioon* 

^tuT^es. 

Les  grenadins  de  Poulets  braises  i  la 

Teau  a  I'oseille.  printaniere. 

Poisson. . 

Le  turbot. 

Relev4;  le  selle  de  mouton  rdti. 

DeuxiAme  Sertiob. 

Les  dindonneaux. 
La  gel6e  du  Tin  Les  haricots  Tertt 

au  fruit.  au  naturel. 

Let  artichauts  a  la         Une  tourte  det 
poaleCte.  cerises. 

Let  pigeont  rdti. 


496 


BILLS  or  FABB. 


Potage  aux  l^gnmes. 
R«leT6{la  poitnzM  de  bcraf  &  U  flamiHte. 

Up  fricandwia  Let  Dctits  p4t^B- 

piqti6  au  pois  a  la  rabe. 

^tuv^et.  C6t«]0ttci  d'ag- 

Lea  pouIeU  d6>  nean,  glao^  aux 

ooup^t  attx  cbam-  ctticombna. 

pignona. 

PoiaKMb 
ReleT^  ;  le  gigoC  de  moiiton  rdtL 

Lea  levmota. 
Une  tourte  dea  gro-        Vegetable  marrow 
adiles  et  fram-  au  ^beorre. 

boiaea.  Biscait  a  la 

Lea  artiehaata  a  ChantUlT. 

ntalienna. 

Lea  dmdonneauz  rAtia. 


Potage  aux  eoncomfafes. 
Relef^  ;  le  qvartier  d'agneau  r6ti. 

QuATBi  Bm&iv. 

C6tdeltea  de  Le  poalet  k  la 

mottton  paii6  a  la  printaniere. 

mat^chal.  Lea  cro^uettea  de 

Viaage  de  oocbon  aalpiron, 

anxpoia^tuv^ea. 

PoiaaoB. 
Relev^  ;  un  akch  bone  de  boeuf. 

DBUXliMB  SntTIOK. 

La  poularde  piqu^. 
La  gel^e  du  via.  Lea  haricots 

verts. 
La  moelle  Tcge-  Une  tourte  des 

table. 

Le  levraut  r6tL 


Potage  aux  l^gumea. 
Relev^ ;  lea  ponlets  et  langue  aux  choux- 

fleurs. 

QUATRI  ExZEiSB. 

Cdtelettes  d'ag-  Saut^  de  ris  de 

neau  glac^  aux  Teau  haricots 

Goncombres.  Terta. 

Lea  tendoosgamis  Les  filets  de 

&  la  mac^doiae.  bceuf  piqu6,  sauce 

tooiate. 
Poisson. 
RsloT^ ;  le  aelle  de  mouton  r6tL 

DauxiiMB  SsBTid. 

Lea  dindonaeaux. 
La  gel^  du  yia  La  moelle  vege- 

aux  fruita.  table. 

Lea  haricots  veita.  Une  touiie  dea 

gniaeiUeiL 
Le  letiaat  rdd. 


Polage  i  la  jaidinim. 
Bekf^;  longe  da  Teau  k  la  htriwel. 

QvAiBB  Emia.^ 

C^tatottea  dlag-  .Teadew  g^aeis 
Maapaatfilla  anx  lAgBmaiu 

mrnxMuL 

Le  lis  de  Teau  Lea  eroqvattsi  & 
piqu^  aux  poia.  la 


9elev6 ;  le  jambon  brais6  aox  haricots 


Les  dindonneaux. 

Hagnoonaise  de  Une  tourta  des 

sanmon.  rerisea. 

La  gel^  du  rin.         Les  hahcota  verts. 

Graaae  f6ti. 


Poti^  aox  ooneoBbres. 
Belevd  ;  le  qiiaztier  d'isgoeau  rdti. 

<^affaa  Eatrnkm, 

CMeletteadeDNNi-  Unfrieandean 

ton  aox  oooeem-  aueedloeeillB. 

bres. 

Petita  pAt6a  de  ris  l^oiincd  de  Tohilie 

devean.  deseeoft. 

Poisson. 

Relevd  ;  le  bceuf  a  la  flamaade. 

DauxiiMX  SxRTics. 

Un  levraut. 

La  gel^e  du  vinj        Lea  haricots  verts. 
Pois  au  naturel.  Lea  meriagoas  a 

m 

Les  pigeons  r6lia. 


Potage  au  maoarooL 
Relevd  les  poulets  et  langue  da  bamC 

Saut^  de  filet  de  Fileta  des  sales 

bauf  a  lltalienne.  a  la  hollaadaise. 

Haricot  de  mou-  ^  Les  ris  de  veaa 

ton.  aux  pois  6tavdes. 

Poisson. 

Relevd  ;  un  selle  de  mouton  r6ti. 

DxUXliMB  SSRVICS, 

Un  levnuitroti. 
Pois  ^tuvdea.  Une  tourte  des 

apriootsL 
Pit^gponi.  Omelette 


BILLS  or  FABK. 


4S7 


Potageaox  potsTerta. 
rr4;  una  poularde  i  la  leine. 

QUATBK    ENTBin. 

tet  d'a^  Yol-aa-Teiit  a  la 

Vtalicime*  '  financidra* 

an  nlpi-  Salmi  de  leTxaut. 
m. 

POUBOQ. 

Un  turbot. 
ilev^ ;  tin  gigot  de  mouton. 
DktxiAme  Service. 
Les  cailles  rAties. 
arte  des  Les  arttehauta. 

coU.  Boudin  de  raisin 

>is.  i  I'anglaise. 

Les  jMuleto  rOtis. 


AUGUST. 

Soup  creci. 
tewed  beef  a  TEspagnole. 
I  venison.  Petit  p^t^ 

deau  with  of  oysters, 

natas.  Cutlets  Maintenon. 

Mi  salmon  and  filleta  of  soles. 
Leg  of  mutton. 
Sbcx>nd  Coubsb* 
Roast  grouse. 
Km  tart.  IfacaronL 

sd  oysters.       Almond  pastrj. 
Roast  turkey  poults. 

Soup  creci. 
?oa1arde  a  la  financi^re. 
>f  grouse.        Hashed  venison. 
pki^B  of  Grenadins  of  veal 

ters.  with  tomatas. 

."d  salmon  and  fillets  of  soles. 
Roast  sirloin  of  beel 
Sbcohd  Coussb. 
Roast  grouse, 
pudding.        Stewed  spinadi 
y  sauce.  with  eggs, 

le  marrow  Pastry, 

ienne. 

Roast  quails. 

Soup  Palestine, 
onlarde  and  oyster  sanee. 
»f  grouse.  Sweetbreads 

larded  with  scmtcL 
of  mutton        Fillets  of  fowl 
lobiese.  with  tomatas. 

Turbot. 
Saddle  of  mutton. 
Srcovd  CouasB. 
Roast  partridgaa. 
padding.         French  beans 
b^chamaL 
I  Italienne.        Apple  taiL 
Roast  taikay  pa«kiL 


Soap  creci. 
Rem.  TongueandtwoebickeDsalareiiia, 
Hashed  venison.       Cutlets  of  mutton, 

piquante. 
Orenadint  of  veal  FilleCs  of  fowl 

with  sorrel.  wHh  Umiatoes. 

SahnoQ  and  smelts. 
Rem.     Saddle  of  mutton  loaift. 
SiooiiB  Comuok 
Roast  grouse. 
Apples  and  riee 

a  la  meringue.         E^ggs  and  apinach. 
French  beans  ftstry. 

bechamel. 

Roast  quaila. 


Soup  i  la  Palestine. 
Rem.  Roulade  of  veal  au  raac^doine. 
Mutton  cutlets  Vol-au-vent  i  la 

and  tomata.  finanddre. 

Salmi  of  leveret.         Two  chickens  a  la 

reine. 
Turbot 
Rem.  Saddle  of  mutton. 

Seoond  CovasB. 
Three  snipes  and  three  quails  roast. 
Plum  tart.  Stewed 

Stewed  spinach.  cucumber. 

Cabinet  pudding. 
Roast  grouse. 


Soup  julienne. 
Rem.  Saut6  of  fillets  of  soles  mahre 

dlidtel. 
Rem.     Calf  s  head  a  I'italienne. 
Two  chickens  a  la        Saut6  of  beef  with 

financiere.  cucumbers. 

Cutlets  Maintenon.        Grenadins  of  veal 

and  sorrel. 
Fish. 
Rem.  Leg  of  mutton,  haricot  beans. 
Sboond  Coubsb. 
Rosat  turkey  poults. 
Rem.  Cabinet  pudding. 

Currant  tart.  Artichokes. 

Stewed  peas.  Noyeau  cream. 

Dressed  cnba. 

Soup  i  la  Palestine. 
Rem.  Slewed  beef  and  coeamber 

sauce. 
Harieot  of  Petit  plt^  af 

mutton.  oysters. 

Two  chickens  i  U         Tendons  of  veal 
mac6doine.  with  sorreL 

Salmaaand  smelts* 
Rem.  Leg  of  mutton. 

Sboond  Coubsb. 
Roast  grouse. 
Apple  tait.  Stewed  spbaah. 

French  beans.  Qin^  soa£M.  . 

Roast  quails  and 


428 


BILLS  OF  FABB. 


8oup  a  la  Paleitine. 
Rem.    Tongue  and  two  diickens 
a  la  reine. 
Petit  plt^  of  Cutlete  of  mutton 

ojiten.  haricot 

Grenadins  of  veal         Fillete  of  poularde 
with  torreL  an  mao^doine. 

Salmon  and  aolai. 
Rem.         Saddle  of  mutton. 
Sbcovd  CouBSk. 
Roait  grouse. 
Apples  and  rice       Stewed  spinach. 
«  la  meringue.  Plum  tart. 

Macaroni. 

Roast  turkey  poults. 

Soup  cred. 
Rem.       Aitch  bone  of  beef. 
FiileU  of  fowl  Yol-au-Tent  a  la 

larded  with  financiere. 

tomata. 
Cutlets  of  mutton         Grenadins  of  veal 
&  la  sobiese.  with  sonel. 

Salmon  i  la  Taitan. 
R^m.         Haunch  of  venison. 
Second  Coubss. 
Roast  grouse. 
Cabinet  pudding.  Scalloped 

Vegetable  marrow,  oysters, 

bechamel.  Damson  tart. 

Roast  turkey  poults. 

Soup  julienne. 
Rem.  Stewed  soles. 

Braised  beef,  cucumber  sauce. 
Fricau^e  of  Mutton  cutlets 

chicken.  and  tomata. 

,  Sweetbreads  a  la  Vol-au-rent  a  la 

jardiniere.  financiere. 

Salmon  a  la  tartare. 
Rem.         Saddle  of  mutton. 
Second  Course. 
Roast  turkey  poults. 
Chantilly  a  la  ^  MacaronL 

cr^me. 

Prawns.  Pastry. 

Roast  leveret. 

Soup  purde  of  cucumber. 
Rem.  Two  chickens  a  la  financiere. 
Casserolettes  of  Cutlets  of  mutton 

rice  a  la  reine.  a  la  sobiese. 

Saut^  of  fillets  of  Petit  pkti  of 

beef  italienne.  oysters. 

Turbot  and  smelts. 
Rem.        Aitch  bone  of  beef. 

SsOOffD  COURSK. 

Roast  turkey  poults. 
Rice  cake  and  French  beans, 

apples. 
'  Eggs  and  sorrel.  Pastry. 

Leveret.  V 

Ham  on  side  table. 


Soup  purde  of  cucumber. 
Rem.    Tongue  and  two  chidLena. 
Cutlets  of  mutton,         Cutlots  of  vosl  i 
tomato  sauce.  la  jardmi^ie. 

Cunyofrabfait.  Petit  p4tia  of , , 

oyikeii.. 
Turbot  and  lobster  sanoo. 
Rem.     Saddle  of  mutton  roast. 
Sboohd  Course* 
Roast  turkey  poults. 
Apple  tait  Vegetable  manow, 

b^chameL 
Eggs  with  sorreL  Cabinet  pudding. 

Potted  game. 


{Soup  cred. 
Soles. 
Rem.  Poularde  and  oyster  sauce. 
Mutton  cutlets,  Curry  of  nblat 

tomato  sauce.  and  rice. 

Petit  pAt^  of  Grenadins  of  veal 

chicken.  with  somL 

Haddocks. 
Rem.        Leg  of  mutton  roast. 
Sboovd  Course. 
Roast  leveret. 
Rice  cake  and  French  beanie 

apples.  b^cbameL 

Artidiokes.  Pastry. 

Roast  turkey  poults. 


Soup  pur6e  of  cucumber. 
Rem.    Two  chickens  with  o>'ster 

sauce. 
Grenadins  with  Petit  p4t6s  &  la 

sorrel.  reine. 

Mutton  cutlets  Fricandeau  sax 

Italienne.  tomatas. 

Fillets  of  soles  Italienne. 
Rem.        Roast  leg  of  mutton. 
Second  Course. 
Roast  quails. 
Chartreuse  Russe.  Scalloped 

oysters. 
French  beans,  Pastiy. 

bechamel. 

Roast  turkey  poults. 


Soup  creci. 
Rem.  Two  chickens  a  la  finandere. 
Sweetbreads  with  Casserolettes  of 

tomata.  oysters  curry. 

Croquette  au  Mutton  cutlets 

salpicon.  Italienne. 

Turbot  and  lobster  sauce. 
Rem.  Roast  beef. 

Secokd  Course. 
Roast  leveret. 
Plum  pudding.  Stewed  cucumber. 

French  beans,  Pastiy. 

b^chameL 

Roast  capon. 


BILLS  OF  FAB& 


429 


Soup  pui&t  of  cuctimben. 

Salmon  a  la  tartare. 

Bern*  Ponlazde  a  la  finandera  garni 
petits  p4tes. 

Tim  atreetbreadB  a         Ciret  of  leveret. 

la  jardiniere. 
CaMerolettesofrice  Fricaaife  of 

with  curry  of         "        chidden, 
oysters. 

Fried  soles. 
Rem.  Sirloin  of  beef. 

Ssooin)  Ck>UBSB.      •  ^^ 

Roast  grouse. 

Plum  pudding.  Artichokes. 

Small  omelets  Apple  tart  with 

italienne.  custards. 

Boast  turkey  poults. 

Soup  pur6e  of  cucumbers. 
Rem.        Salmon  a  la  tartare. 

Poularde  and  oyster  sauce. 

Vol-au-Tcnt  of  Grenodins  of  veal 

diicken  a  la  finan-  ,         with  sorreL 

ciere. 
^Saut^  of  beef  and  Curnr  of  calfs 

cttcumbers.  head. 

Turbot  and  lobster  sauce. 

Rem.  Saddle  of  mutton.         '^' 

Secohd  Coubsi. 

Roast  quails. 

Noyeau  cream.  Stewed  cucimibers. 

a  la  CbanUlly. 

Vegetable  marrow,  Apple  tart 

bechamel. 

Roast  chicken. 

Soup  a  )a  Palestine. 

Rem.         Turbot  and  smelts. 

Rem.  Poularde  and  oyster  sauce. 

Yol-au-vent  a  la  Cutlets  of  lamb 

finandere.  Italienne. 

Hashed  venison.  Casseroles  of  rice 

with  curry  of 
mbbit. 
Salmon  i  la  Tartare. 

Rem.        Haunch  of  venison. 

Second  Coubss. 

Roast  grouse. 
ChantUIy  a  la  Stewed 

cTi^me.  cucumbers. 

Artichokes  i  la  Cherry  tart, 

reine. 

Roast  turkey  poalts. 

Side  table. 
Meek  of  venison  and  ham. 


Soup  pur6e  of  cucumber. 

Rem.        With  roulade  of  veal 
haricot. 

Fricassee  of  Petit  p&t^  of    ; 

chicken  oysters, 

finandere. 
Tendons  of  veal         Cutlets  of  mutton 
with  sorreL  Maintenon. 

Fish, 

Rem.     With  saddle  ot  mutton. 

SXOOND  COURSS. 

Roast  grouse. 

Apple  tart.  Artichokes. 

Vegetable  marrow,  Noyeau  cream, 

bechamel. 

Roast  turkey  poults. 


Soup  creci. 

Rem.  Trout  and  smelts. 

Rem.    With  stewed  beef,  haricot 

sauce. 

Two  sweetbreads  Petit  p&t&  of 

larded  with  sorrel.  oysters. 

Fricassee  of  Cutlets  of  mutton 

chicken  a  la  a  la  sobiese. 
finanddre. 

Broiled  haddocks. 

Rem.        Roast  leg  of  mutton. 

Second  Codrsb. 

Roast  turkey  poults. 

Apple  tart.  Artichokes. 

Vegetable  marrow  Noyeau  cream. 

^  la  cr^me. 

Roast  ducklings. 


Soup  pur6e  of  cucumber. 

Rem.        Aitch  bone  of  beef. 

Two  sweetbreads  Chicken  i  la 

with  tomatas.  finandere.  ^ 

Casseroles  with  Cutlets 

currie  of  oysters.  Maintenon. 

TurboL 

Rem.  Saddle  of  mutton. 

Second  ,Coub8e. 

Roast  turkey  poults. 

Rem.  Souffle. 

Macaroni  Apple  and  rice 

a  la  meringue. 
Pastry.  Stewed 

I  cucumben. 

Dressed  crab. 


430 


UlIiLB  OF  J^AXE 


Soap  pur^  of  cucumber. 

Mallet  in  paper. 

Hem.       Tongue  And  chickens 
bechamel. 

Mutton  catlets  a  Casaeroles  with 

la  Bobiese.  cnny  of  rabbit. 

Croquettes  of  Tendons  of  lamb 

flweetbreads.  i  la  jardiniere. 

Haddocks  baked. 

Kern.        Roast  1^  of  mutton. 

Sboohd  Coubsb. 

Roast  grouse. 

Cabmet  padding.  Stewed  spinadi. 

Artichokes.  Apple  tart. 

Roast  turkey  poolts. 


Soup  ered. 

Rem.  Mullet. 

Rem.      Stewed  beef  fispagnole. 

Cutlets  of  lamb  Fricandeau  an 

Italienne.  macMoine. 

Two  chickens  a  la  Petit  pktbt  a  la 

financi^re.  reine. 

Salmon  d'la  Tartare. 

Rem.  Saddle  of  mutton. 

Second  Coubss. 

Roast  grouse. 

Cherrj  tart.  Macaroni 

gratin. 
Vegetable  marrow  Rice  cake  and 

bechamel.  apple  a  la  meringue. 

Roast  turkey  poults. 


Soup  creci. 
Rem.    Poularde  with  cucumber  sauce. 


Two  sweetbreads 

with  sorrel. 

Fricassee  of 

chicken  a  la 

financiere. 


Mutton  cutlets 

with  tomatoes. 

Blanquetto  of  veal 

and  fricandeau. 


Rem. 


Turbot  and  lobster  sauce. 
Saddle  of  mutton. 


Second  Course. 

Roast  grouse. 

App  ?<tart.  Macaron  . 

Tegetablemarrow  Gioger  sou£6. 

b^hamcl. 

Roast  turkey  poult. 


Soap  Palestine. 
Rem.        Salmon  i  la  Tartare. 
Rem.     f^et  of  real  b^hameL 

Chickens  a  la  Petit  p^t^  a  la 
financidre.  reine. 

Fricandeau  au  Casseroles  of  lioe. 
mac^doine.j 

Mullet  in  paper. 

Rem.       L^  of  mutton  roast. 

Sboohd  Coubsb. 

Roast  lereret. 

Apple  tart.  Artichokes. 

French  beans,        Cabinet  podding, 
bechamel. 

Side  table.     Roast  grouse. 

Tongue  and  vegetables. 


Soup  crecL 

Rem.  Fried  soles. 

Rem.        Aitoh  bone  of  beef. 

Petit  p&t6s  of  Grenadins  of  vesl 
chicken.  with  sorrdL 

Two  chickens  a  la  Saut^  of  beef  a«x 
financiere.  fines  beibes. 

Trout' 

Rem.        Roast  leg  of  mutton. 

Sbookd  Course. 

Roast  Grouse. 

Rice  cake  and  Vegetable  mamw 

apple.  ^  Italienne. 

French  beans,  Pastry, 

bechamel. 

Roast  turkey  poults. 


Soup  julienne. 

Rem.  Fillets  of  soles  maitre  dliAtel.  ' 

Rem.      Stewed  beef  Espagnole. 

Two  chickens  Cutlets  of  muttra 
raged  t  meler.  sohiese. 

Petit  pkt6  of  Tendons  of  vesl 
oysters.  with  sorrel. 

Haddocks  broiled. 
Rem.  Saddle  of  mutton. 

Second  Course. 

Roast  grouse. 

Rem.  Fondue. 

Aople  tart.  Vegetable  manrowi 

b^chaoiel. 
Stewed  peas.  Cabinet  pudding. 

Roast  turkey  poult. 


WLLS  OF  FAXB. 


4SI 


Soap  CfBCL 
n.     Poolaide  i  la  financidre. 
Sireetbreads  Petit  jAt4  a  la 

led  with  lorrel.  leine. 

ni  of  lereret.        BlanqneCte  of  veal 

with  fricandeau. 
Soles  fried  and  boiled. 
D.  Roa^t  beef. 

Second  Coursk. 

Roait  quails. 

am  padding.  Vegetable  marrow 

nmdy  sauce.  Italienne. 

iitidiokes.  Plum  tart. 

Roast  grouse. 


SEPTEMBER. 

Turtle. 
I.    Tongue  and  cbickens,  bMamel. 
sCH  pAt£  Grenadins 

la  reine.  with  sorrel, 

etbreads  with  Fricassee  a  la 

omatas.  finandere. 

Fish. 
I.  Saddle  of  mutton. 

Sbooxd  Courbx. 
RoAst  piirtridges. 
tnnet  pudding  Stewed  spinach, 

stable  marrow,  Apple  tarts, 

bechamel. 

Roast  turkey  poults. 


Turtle. 
I.        Roast  leg  of  mutton. 
Imi  of  Two  chickens  a  la 

mse.  finflnci^. 

it  plates  Grenadin  of  veal, 

tjsteis.  with  tomatas. 

Turbot. 
1.      Matelote  of  turtle  fins. 

Second  Coubsb. 

Roast  partridges. 
le  tarts.        Small  omelets  Italienne. 
:hokes.  C  ibinet  pudding. 

Roast  capon. 


Soup  creci. 
Boiled  neck  of  mutton, 
i  of  grouse.         Fricassee  of  chicken 

and  truffles, 
threads  Croquettes  au 

sorrel.  salpicon. 

Salmon  u  la  tartare. 
Roast  l)eef. 
Second  Course. 
Roast  black  cock. 
a  pudding,  Stewed  spinach, 

idy  sauce. 

>pcd  oysters.  Ginger  souffle. 

Roast  capon. 


Soap  creci. 
Rem.     Ponlarde  i  la  financiere. 
Mutton  cutlets  Petit  pkXia 

a  la  sobiete.  of  oyitters. 

Croquettes  of  Fricandeaux 

sweetbreads.  of  turtle. 

Soles  and  smelts. 
Rem.  Saddle  of  mutton. 

Second  Couesb. 

Roast  partridges. 

Chantilly  a  la  Vegetable  marrow, 

creme.  bechamel. 

Stewed  spinadi.  Apple  tart. 

Roast  torkej  poults. 

Soup  Palestine. 
Rem.    Tongue  and  two  chickens, 

bechamel. 
Vol-au-vent  a  la  Hashed  renison. 

financiere. 
Cutlets  of  mutton        Sweetbreads  larded 
with  tomatas.  with  soireL 

Salmon  peel  and  fillets  of  soles. 
Rem.      L^  of  mutton  roasted. 

Sboovd  Course. 
Roast  partridges. 
Apple  tarts.  Sodloped  oysters. 

Stewed  spinach, 

with  eggs.  Italian  cream* 

Turkey  poults. 


Soup  creci. 
Rem.      Poulards  a  la  financiere. 
Hashed  Tenison.  Fricandeaux 

with  sorrel. 
Cutlets  of  mutton  Croquette  au 

with  tomatoes.  salpicon. 

Baked  haddocks  and  smelts. 
Rem.  Saddle  of  mutton. 

Second  Course. 
Roast  landrails. 
Apples  and  rice  Stewed  spinach 

a  la  meringue.  with  eggs. 

Macaroni.  Pastry. 

Roast  grouse. 

Soup  vermicelli,  white. 
Rem.         Haunch  of  venison. 
Vol-au-vent  of  turbot  Fricas^  of 

mattre  d'h6tel.  chicken. 

Cutlets  of  mutton  Croquettes  of 

with  tomatas.  Sweetbreads. 

Fish. 
Rem.         Aitch  bone  of  beef. 

Second  Course. 

Roast  partridges. 

Ginger  soufl^^.  Stewed  spinach 

Vegetable  marrow,  with  eggs. 

b^chumel.  Pastry. 

Two  chickens  roast. 


432 


BULLS  OF  FAISE. 


Soup  Termicelli  clear. 
Rem.  Fried  imelts. 

Rem.      Stewed  beef  Espagnole. 
Fzicandeaux  with  Mutton  cutlets, 

tomatofl.  sauce  piquante. 

Vol-au-vent  a  la  Blanquette  of  fowl 

fimmciere.  with  truffles. 

Stewed  soles. 
Rem.    L^  of  mutton  and  haricot  beans. 
Sbcokd  Coubss. 
Roast  partridges. 
Apple  tart.  Sodloped  oysters. 

Stewed  cucumbers.     Casserolettes  of  rice 

i  la  creme.  ^ 
Roast  grouse. 


OCTOBER. 

Soups. 
Fish. 
Haricot  mutton. 
Sweetbread  and  Vegetables. 

spinach. 

P&t^s,  or  vol-au-Tent  fh>m  the  veal 

of  yesterday. 

Second  Coubsx. 

Roast  partridges. 

Pudding. 


Skcond  Dat. 

Salmi  from  the  left  partridges. 
Rissoles  of  the  Vegetables, 

sweetbread  left. 

Roast  neck  of  mutton. 
Roast  hare. 
Pastry.  Jelly. 

Salad  from  the  fish  left  yesterday. 


Rem.         Saddle  of  matton. 

SlOOSD  GOUSSB., 

Roast  paitridjwi. 
Italienne  cream.  Stewvd 

Prawns.  Appto 

^Roast  toikej. 


Turtle. 
Rem.    Stewed  beef  with  encumber. 
Vol-au-vent  a  la     Sant^  of  tweetfafMdl 

financidre.  with  tomtto. 

Sahni  of  grouse.       Gbaserolettes  of  noi 

a  lareine. 
Fish. 
Rem.      L^  of  mutton  roasted. 


DECEMBER. 

Turtle. 
Rem.    Stewed  beef  with  cucumbers. 
Petit,  p&t^s  of  Cutlets  of  mutton 

oysters.  with  tomatas. 

Matelote  of  turtle       Casserolettes  of  rice 
fins.  d  la  reiue. 

Fish. 


SlOOVD  Covj 

Roast  grouse. 
Cream  Italienne.       Scalloped  ojila 
Stewed  spinach.  Apple  fiittsOL 

Roast  capon. 


Soup. 

Hsh. 

Boiled  turkey. 

Celeiy  sauce. 

Pork  or  bacon  on 

^vegetables. 

Roast  loin  of  mutton. 
Roast  grouse. 
Artichokes  with  Puddisg. 

sauce. 

MacaronL 


SxcoND  Dat. 

Eminc^  and  boiled  leeks. 
Rissole  in  one  of  Vegetables 

sweetbread. 

Roast  shoulder  of  mutton. 
Onion  sauce. 


Pastry. 


Second  Coubse. 

Roast  game. 

Rhenish  cream  from 
the  jelly. 
Stewed  celery. 


Magnonnaise 

lobster. 
Noyeau  jelly.  Fruit. 

Ham. 
Fonchenette  of 

apricots. 
Fillets  of  fowls         Fruit, 
larded  with 
truffle  sauce. 


A  SMALL  BREAKFAST. 

White  soup. 
Two  boiled  fowls 
a  la  financiere.  Fruit 

Cakes. 
A  royal  truffle.    -    - . 
Cakes. 
Clear  consomm^  soup.        Fruit. 
Two  roast  fowls. 


Lamb  cutleti 
and  peas. 
Gkteau  a  le 
Neapolitan. 
Raised  |»e. 
Vcnilla  cream* 
Ploveis' 
eggs  in 
aspic  jelly* 


BTI.LS  OF  FABE. 


433 


A  LARGE  DINNER  FOR  THIRTY. 


Fear  Mmps. 
Be,  wUte. 
tefl,  white. 
).  deer  brown. 
Ili,  brown. 

Four  remOTet. 
rdti  lagoAt  a  la  tniffeSb 
ilk  bam  and  spinach. 
f  beef  bouilli,  haricot. 
h,  krded  and  bnuied  a  la  royale. 
Side  table. 

Dotton. 

U^  of  ojften. 

ti  a  la  reine. 

Four  fishes. 

.  ood. 

&  lee  genevaise. 
iterfi^. 

Eight  entries, 
ttlets,  ykt€  aux  pois.  I 


Mutton  cutlets  bn&ed,  pur^  turnips. 
Tendons  Yeal,  with  endives. 
Mouton  of  sweetbreads,  mushrooms, 
fillets  fowls,  sup6me. 
Blanquette  chidLens  and  truffles. 
Salmi  of  grouse. 
Gratin  of  krksy  Italian. 

SCOOMD  CouuB. 

Two  pheasants  rdtis,  one  larded. 
Souffle  flenr  d'orange. 


Fruit  jelly. 
Mushrooms  broiled. 

Built  pastry. 


Four  roast  woodcocks. 
Basket  of  pastry. 

Asparap;us. 
Cream  of  Vanilla. 

Three  partridges  rdtis. 
Ramequins  of  parmesan. 


Ginger  cream. 
Spinach  a  la 
creme. 
Vol-au-vent  of 

apricot. 

Four  roast  teals. 

Neapolitan  cake. 

French  beans. 

Orange  jelly. 


lLL  SUPPER  FOR  TWO  HUNDRED  AND  FIFTY  PERSONS. 


I  of  chickens,  boiled  and  roasted. 

B  of  galantine  of  veal  or  aspic. 

of  lobster  salads  with  aspic. 

tongues,  white  and  brown. 

hams,  ornamented. 

of  prawns  in  aspic  jelly. 

ci  ploTeis'  eggs  in  and  on  aspic. 


8  dishes  of  cakes. 

8  clear  jellies. 

8  orange  do. 

8  creams  various  in  colour  and  flavour. 

7  baskets  with  pastry. 

7  tarts  with  sugar  tops. 

5  pur^^mont^es,  various. 


SUPPER  FOR  FROM  FIFTY  TO  SIXTY. 

Raised  pie. 

owls 

Roast  fowls 

Fruit. 

cut. 

• 

Jelly. 

shes. 

Savoy  cake. 

Sandwiches. 

y. 

:    Mixed  cakes. 

Pastry. 

salad. 

Fruit. 

Italian  salad. 

n. 

Preserves. 

Cream. 

Cakes. 

Sandwiches. 
Gateau  a  la 

0t. 

Neapolitan. 

le. 

Ham. 

itan. 

Epergne. 

Basket. 

:hes. 

Cakes. 

Sandwiches. 

y. 

Preserves. 

Partrv. 

• 

salad. 

Fruit. 

Italian  salad. 

n. 

Mixed  cakes. 

Cream. 

:h6i. 

Savoy  cake. 

Sandwiches.. 

• 

Fruit. 

Jelly. 

owls, 

Roast  fowls,. 

• 

Raised  pie. 

cut. 

F  F 


434        THE   ROTAL   KITCHEN  AT  WINDSOR  CASTLE. 


THE  ROYAL  KITCHEN  AT  WINDSOR  CASTLE. 

The  kitchen  is  a  noble  apartment  of  nearlj  fifty  fiset  in  height— 
situated  on  the  northern  side  of  the  Castle.  And  the  Ohriitani 
good  cheer  requires  ample  space.  As  many  as  sixty  twAejs  an 
roasted  for  the  Royal  table  at  this  season.  The  hooMboU  aod  ite 
domestics  help,  of  course,  to  consume  them.  Lafge  fires  at  both  ends 
of  the  kitchen  look  enormous,  and,  with  the  viands  slowly  reirstvii^  ta 
the  spits,  present  a  wonderful  picture.  On  either  side  Amx  are  afao 
charcoal  fires  for  the  more  delicate  cookery — for  the  ckef  d^csvrm  of 
French  invention — aided  by  certain  mysterious  utensih  msed  in  the 
process  that  sadly  bewilder  the  \miniated,  whose  astonishment  is 
moreover  excited  by  the  great  size  and  number  of  the  colinaxj  ves- 
sels displayed  ostentatiously  around  the  huge  fire-places. 

Among  the  standing  dishes,  wc  are  informed,  on  her  Majesty^s 
table,  there  is  a  baron  of  beef,  an  immeasurable  pie,  ami  a  hoaifs 
head,  two  or  three  brawns,  and  a  large  woodcock  pte»  i^lick^  hf  M 
custom,  is  sent  over  by  the  Viceroy  of  Ireland. 

As  might  have  have  been  expected,  the  staff  of  persKMUi  etaplajed 
in  the  kitchen  is  numerous.  It  consists  of  a  chef  de  cuume  (an 
important  post,  now  filled  by  ^I.  floret),  two  master  cooks,  two  yeo- 
men of  the  mouth,  two  yeomen  of  the  kitchen,  two  roasting  cooks, 
two  larderers,  five  scowers,  one  steam-man,  three  kitchen-maids, 
two  men  in  the  green  office,  as  it  is  called,  their  duty  being  to  dean 
the  vegetables ;  that  of  the  steam-man  is  to  boil  them ;  and  thopa  aie 
four  apprentices,  to  learn  the  art  and  mystery  of  cooking. 

The  scene  in  the  kitchen  is  one  of  great  order ;  no  bustle^  no  coor 
fusion;  all  the  details,  even  of  the  largest  dinner,  being  sa  snbdin^d 
and  arranged  that  each  person  has  his  own  part  to  attend  tia,  and  in 
consequence,  there  is  no  disorder.  The  quiet  is  remarkable.  The 
chief  scene  of  activity  is  when  the  footmen  are  in  attendance  to  con* 
vey  the  dishes  from  the  hot  table  in  the  centre  of  the  kitdien,  on 
which  they  are  disposed,  to  the  apartments  in  which  they  aca  to  ba 
served.  We  say  apartments,  as  it  often  happens  that  her  lAgesty 
dines  in  private ;  and,  besides,  there  aie  so  many  for  whom  proTirifrr 
is  made,  that  the  supply  seems  at  all  time  efnormous. 


■A.  FSEHCH  FLUlt  PUDDlKa. 


THE  DRBADFDL  TURN-ODt 


A    FRENCH   PLUM-PUDDIZfOtll 


AND  ALFBID  CBOWIJUILl. 


Momttrs  Dt  u  Bmsa  did  emTthwg 
H  the  English  did,  H*  dnnk  baer  An' 
btcakfiut.  lie  ate  btfuki  aiur  pammtt  dt 
km  tiery  dnjr  of  hi*  life,  exeept  vben  he 
had  roMiif.  He  talked  loiKlIy.  He  walked 
ImuDf.  He  iwim  rar^  loi^T.  He  wai, 
ia  elMtt,  the  terror  of  tray  watw  in  ersy 
iMiihln'iiiiiii  a^lL  But,  mboT*  al),  Hon- 
■aai  da  la  BMi*  ptidiid  himwif  on  dreW' 
ing  in  tb*  Ea^kh  feihion.  To  carrj  out 
the  raemblance  lu  cloulj  ai  poaribic,  it 
vBi  hi*  habit  to  drea  in  an  entire  suit  of 
Scotch  plaid,  of  Ibu  107  widett  fiTe-bolred 
pflltem.  Thi*  coabnBaaai  made  nil!  more 
correct  by  the  bithful  additioD  ut  tap- 
booti,  ipura,  a  jockey'i  cap,  and  A  fuff^ 

r' '  of  boxing  glorei,  «hich  >;onueur  de 
Betiae  alwBjs  wore  on  grand  (tale 
occasions.  To  make  hii  eppcomnce  in 
the  hight^  degree  English,  Montieur  de 
Li  B^tija  vu  alwnya  accompanied  tn  hif 
nunblca  and  Tints  by  a  real  English 
boaUdogue,  whom  ho  had  trained  in  ha 
Iciiure  monienti,  when  he  irai  not  reading 
"  Osun  "  or  learning  the  "  Box,"  lo  miTT 
hii  Engliih  ambtella ;  for,  like  all  Lag- 


luhtDWi,  Moiaiwr  de  1b  Bfitne  mold  Dot  go  lo  n  Mcaag  ftirtjr  iit«n  Bithtot  hk 
lunbnlla, 

F    F   2 


XHE  DSEADPta  TDBH-ODI 


Madame  de  la  Uelitc  liad  the  Kims  Dolile  pride  aa  ha  hiulund.  To  perfect 
the  English  illumon,  she  nliiBys  walked  out  in  n  spencer  or  ■  nding-habit,  and  a 
riding-whip,  accompanied  wiUi  a  parasol.  For  Madame  de  la  Betise  exhibited 
the  ume  weakneu  (peculiar  to  all  English  ladiei)  for  a  panaol  as  her  husband 
did  far  an  umbrella.  If  the  went  to  batlie,  she  nlwajs  took  her  parasol  into  the 
water  H-ilh  her.  Her  drcas  never  had  leas  than  ten  flounce*.  She  waa  alio  followed 
in  all  her  liuU  and  ramblea  by  a  beautiful  little  King  CtMriea'a  dog.  At  home 
the  was  solaced,  during  Jloniicur  de  la  Betiu'a  frequent  >>aitl  to  the  eojt,  or  hii 
eliib,  as  he  called  it,  by  the  attentions  of  a  numerous  little  feline  Amilj',  conaiattng 
of  half  a  doicn  cnti,  and  as  manjr  kittens,  which  she  had  learned,  fiom  authentic 
>eurces,  woi  BBothtt  interesting  custom  of  all  English  lodtco. 

Their  dome*tie  bearth  (which  con- 
wsted  of  an  English  wanning-paa  Glled 
with  charcoal)  was  never  in  want  of 
excitement,  for  the  bouttdogiu  and  Ibe 
King  (Tbarlei  and  the  cats  were  alwaji 
fighting. 

Their  groom  wM  alto  drened  aAer 

the  sEjile  nf  oil  English  grnonts. 

Hoorieur  aod  Hadame  de  la  Btltise 

,  determined  in  their  late  for  English 

nenand  eiutonu,tohaTen  Christ- 


chued  a  bl  goose,  which  « 


OF  A  FitBiTCH  twii-winAnm. 


waging  Mil  ha  Ou  aibi.  6<iL, 

aodall  Ibe  "»«*—'*'-  fa  nuking 

lEadbbFlam-Boddiiur,  Tbtm 


copied  ont  «(k  Fnndi  cookefr- 

book,  u)l  ra«  u  Mlow*:— 

,  OimDgia,tcmM>t,lmBd7,p8ppcT, 

^    r|     nit,  KiBt,  plum*,  tNittar,  bread, 

p^-— ^--^  egji,  itmandi^  cumDti,  cfann, 

I  'll  wjT    ^yTJ  cmin,  and  half-a-doini  ipoon- 

■™i''t  ;;_i|  fill,  of  table-bMT.    They  «et< 

to  b«  beal«n  up  fill  togither,  in 

their  mpectiTe  propettioii^  and 

^    bail«dfbt  twelve  hoBii  in  fiaitf 

f  ICaduM  da  la  B4ti«B  (who 

had  tiled  b  an  Engliih  noble- 
man'i  SnnfiT  ia  Whettfoae 
Park)  kindlv  conHDCed  to 
aapeijntend  tie  cwdcii^  of  tU 
puddinR  herieir. 

Htmueur  da  la  MtiM  entwo] 
into  a  gmeiuui  rtralir  with  hi> 
wife ;  and,  to  ihed  an  ttmotpittn 
of  local  truth  about  the  place, 
bulled  himielF  in  decorating  the 
ram  with  cabbage  leatea  and  other  emblona  of  the  festive  Kason. 

At  lait  it  waa  time  to  dnn  for  dinner.  Honaieur  de  la  Betiie  put  on  a 
hialorical  coatume,  borrowed  from  the  porlraita  of  Geori;e  IV.  The  pantaloon* 
were  made  of  the  lieat  white  kid,  in  order  that  he  might  look  like  the  "fint 
gentleman  of  Europe"  u  much  ai  poaiible;  whilat  Madama  attired  heraelf  in  the 
becoming  costume  of  Qoeen  Eliisbeth.  And  all  their  gueili,  out  of  compliment 
to  tbeir  hoHa,  cama  likewise  in  Eneliih  historical  charactm.  The  effect  of  thit 
giajid  tabUaa  vivant  can  he  much  better  conceiTcd  than  described. 


;  TO*- VBKUWin^  TUnMKIT 


Tbs  dinim  paned  off  but  dmrlj;  tfaongh  lL«m 
vu  no  ■CTcity  of  ""T,  ^^  "^  BnglJ*!*  bm, 
nsie  vH  the  ala  Aom  E^bm;^,  and  the  Mout 
from  DubOn,  nd  the  fa-&ii>Bd  p^icifrom  Londos, 
with  othtt  Twirtie*,  ndi  ai  A*  gcDaroui  balf-md- 
1m1(  ud  the  ftiwdlf  Utar  iT  Ow  celcbntad  Btm, 
■nd  otheii  too  miDarog*  to  wnHoa.  Thew  wo* 
nmd  roond,  ■■  in  UnglMJ,  in  wtpghwM ;  but 
didi>tMwnta<nliihi<»ih»  MMjwy  ' 
mUf  vm  ««  ly  ba  auk  ki 
and,  accaiiing  to  the  rr' 


dCdUn 


■enOe  pntfiM 


euriotitj  lurked  b  Sa  comer  of  ersn  igrti  TIm 
mlire  MWmbly  >h  Alkig  upon  tba  tiptia  of  ei- 
pectatico  (if  ao  ^hSk  an  txptBrntm  nuj  be 
allowed  upon  ao  iiah  Bia  ■>  oocanon),  vhea  tbe  door 


marched  the  acnwA^  ^ondlr  bear 
England:    the    crictaMd   &^  i 

cliBTsctci  it  ia,  onlika  not  h 

to  yield  Barter  and  ffMc  I, 

ia  brand(i)ed;  the  uiuiernl  goat  on  Chiutma*  dar 

■I  CTCi;  Biigiich  table,  who  ii  alinijB  receiied  wiui 

cheen  the  imtant  nf  his  onival — the  erer-irelcaaie 

E^auiH  PiUH-PtiDMla ! 

The  PImn-Puilding  waa  Jtlaced  belbm  Uadame 
de  la  Bitiae,  who,  bU  imilea  nT  conacima  triumph, 
proceeded  to  pour  it  out,  and  to  Kind  it  roond,  with 
a  kindlj  iatimation  that  "there  mi  .plenty  more  ia 
the  lea-om." 

TbegueatB  proceeded  to  taale'the  puddinic,  nfwn 

it   iraa   nnivemsllj   pronounced  "deiidona."     Still 

their  fiiees  did  not  eipien  oiQch  reliab ;  but  Uuiieiear 

de  la  hetjie  noa  exlremely  loud  in  ita  prsiwi.     He 

hud   Blread;  eoipiied  one  cup,  and  aent  up  for  n 

■ccond ;  but  no  one  seconded  his  cnthufflaam,  much 

\  -  leH  rollowed  his  example.     A  dead  silence  ensued 

for  several  minutes.     At  last,  a  captain  of  diBgoons, 

bolder  than  the  real,  ventured  to  remark,  that  "  he  hardly  thought  his  wu  anect 

enough,"  and  aaked  Ut  eome  lugar  ;  Charles  the  Second  lecommeiided  "  a  little 


or  JL  TREiwrff  vtxm-rvxiviso. 

omm  i"    vhiU 
cdM  al«Bd   to 


•erralion  of  Mktt 

Queen  of  Scots, 

that  "  the  pud- 

g  ding  waa  far  fiwn 

£  bail,  bnt  dw  did  ;• 

a  Wheienpon  g 
the  lid  ma  re-  3 
r.  mored.  and  the  g 
S  plunuwnefoand  ' 
S  u>  be  all  at  tb« 
bottom    of    the 

Mnre  conater- 

nation ;  but  Ma- 
dame de  U  Be- 
tiw,  irith  ^Kat 
preeence  of  mind, 
awired  her  dear 
ftiendi  that  ft 
ira*  perfMl  J  cor- 
rect. The  plumi 
werealvnTiktpt 
In  the   Ii^     In 


(uniljwith  whom 
■he  had  the  ho- 
Dotu  of  liTina  in 
WhetMone  Park 
— Iffreat  trtualim) — the  plumi  were  alnaji  reserred  1 
tha  latlec  part  of  the  CTsning,  which  game  waa  called 
of  her  dear  timait 


la  B^iae' 
The    compB.7   w- 
round  the  tabU,  and 
with    wonntb    iato 
of  the  game. 


Would  anjr 

lice  to  try  H  hand 

The   propoaition 

eheira.      A    large 

aad  fillcd,arc«rduig 


at  which  the}' 
and  got  no  l' 
'  -    it,  with 


Poor  Monaieor  de 
gan  to  lidbt  up. 
ranged    themaelvea 

Hut  the  gucata, 
'Iragon  woa  B  game 
burnt  their  fingeri 
gradually  retired 
nc  rally     eipreawd 


440  A  rmiirCH  VLUH-FUDDUfOr 

opinion  thmt "  tbe  end  of  tbe  Ei^ilUi  Plun-tnilffiiis.  if  wijtyBg,  wn  w<mm  Uim 


d,*<0h1   It  >  mi7  modi  bcnitibll 

Tbe  eapUin  of  dnsooni,  tgiJn  MdM  than  the  mt,  or  more  acoulonied, 
prabebljr,  than  bii  oompenion*,  to  Muidiiig  BiUUi  fin,  thruit  hit  hand  right  iola 
the  midit  of  tbe  Baming  wMhhaad-badn.  Not  BKnorag  of  tbe  tenntioii,  bow- 
erer,  be  wtthdnw  hEa  fluKen  baitit?,  and,  in  ao  ddng,  opaet  tbe  bo*U  Tha  apirit 
ran  like  wildflre  along  the  carpet,  and  the  upraar  tint  enaoed  defiM  alike  dmwing 
and  deaofption.  Tbe  vomen  Arickad,  and  nn  mt  of  the  toom  to  Unt  ajmo  tha 
ataircaae.    The  men  nuhad  about  fbr  wet  tovela  and  blanketi,  and  the  nte  >aa 


When  the  amoke  had  cleared  awaf ,  a  brilliant  thoo^t  flariwd  npon  > 
de  la  Bttiae.  Looking  philoaapbkalty  at  one  or  tbe  wet  tawda,  be  adTBoccd  to 
Madame.  "  Hjr  dear,  in  boiling  the  Plum-pudding,"  be  Inquired  lotdj. "  did  jou 
|iut  all  tbe  tbinp  into  Che  laucepan?" 

■'  I  did — enrj  one." 

"  And  nothing  elae  I" 

"  Not  a  wigle  thing  dae,  1  can  aMnre  foo." 

"  I  tbongbt  a»  much,"  waa  ba  buiband*!  aruTCT.  "  Ladiea  aad  flMUeoMB," 
be  then  aul,  taming  to  hia  diaconeated  gueata,  "  I  am  rerj  eorn'  oar  Ei^idi 
Plnm-Pndding  «ai  not  better;  but  I  am  aure  it  would  haTO  turned  oat  *«r]r 
diffmntlr  if  Madame  bad  not/«ryaU«i>  Is  MI  if  in  a  elalA." 

Whether  tbe  gueata  were  aatiifled  with  thb  enplanalian  for  tbe  loai  of  tbor 
dinner,  our  aimpie  alory  cuinot  (ell ;  but  at  all  event^  HoDMenr  and  Hadane  de 
la  Betiae  were  cured  of  thai  Anglo-maniac  fnllr.  They  were  content,  aver 
Bftnwarda,  to  talk,  and  dren,  and  eat,  ai  other  E^ch  peiaona  do.  Tbef  aold 
their  ioulBfopiw,  Kii^  Charlea,  and  caU;and  neTsr,  a*  long  aa  tbaj  lited,  did  tbar 
far  another  eipaimental  dinner  in  Eogliih  ityla  of  tooktrf. 


441 


INDEX. 


w         ^ 


▲dvltbeation     of     our 

foody  10. 
Ale,  Burton,  395. 

Edinburgh,  395. 

spiced,  395. 
Almond  cheesecakes,  363. 
A.^  custard,  301. 

green  pickle,  349. 

green  tarts,  269. 

icing,  359. 

for  bride-cakes, 
309. 

puddings,  254. 
E^   baked,  254. 

to  make,  254. 
^*    wafers,  275. 
American  OTen,  xxi. 
Amour  jwrfiiit,  390. 
AnchoTies.  butter,  190. 

essence  of,  190. 

sauce,  192. 
au  beurre,  192. 

toast  of,  190. 

to  know  good,  190. 

with  fried  biesd,.l90. 
Angelica,  215. 
Apple,  baked,  267. 

cheesecakee,  303. 

codlins,     to     pickle, 
349. 

to  keep,  330. 

(green)  to  preeerre, 
331. 

dried,  330. 

dumplings,  267. 

fool,  307. 

fritters  279. 

marmalade,  319, 320. 

jelly,  313. 

another  way  for  pre- 
serving, 313. 

petits  gateaux,  320. 

meringues^  277* 


Apple,  pippins,  to  presenre 
in  slices,  330. 
golden,  330. 

in  rice,  277* 

sauce,  192. 

souffle  with  rice,  286. 

to  bake  whole,  330. 

wine,  378. 
Apricot,2  apple   jelly  for 
preserving,  31 3. 

cheese,  291. 

conserve  of,  329. 

cream,  303. 

fritters,  279. 

jelly.  313,  314. 

in  brandy,  329. 

marmalade,  320. 

petits  g&teaux  of,  320. 

pie,  240. 

pudding,  255. 

pufls,  274. 

sweetmeat  for   tarts, 
268. 

to  preserve,  328. 

another  way,  329. 
Articles  for  the  table  when 

in  season,  33. 
Artichokes,  215. 
_,  a  la  St.  Cloud,  215. 

bottoms,  215,  216. 

ftied,  216. 

Jerusalem,  215. 

pickled,  350. 

preserved  whole,  331 . 

the  Spanish  way,  331 . 

salad,  216. 

leaf,  215. 

soup,  55. 
Artificial  cheese,  291. 
Asparagus,  213. 

asperge  a  la  pois,  214. 

bottled,  331. 

en  croustade,  213. 

forced,  214. 

Italian  iashioD,  214. 


Asparagus,  pickled,  350. 

soup  with  peas,  55. 

clear,  55. 
Aspic,  312. 

jelly,  312. 
Aqua  mirabilis,  386. 


B. 

Baba,  359. 

another  receipt,  360. 

mould,  xxii. 
Bacon  and  cabbage,  126. 

and  eggs  to  boil,  126. 

broil,  126. 

cure,  Cobbett's,  124. 

for  larding,  126. 

fraxc,  127. 

gammon  to  bake,  127. 

to  make,  126. 

toasts,  127. 
Bain  marie  pan,  xx.  and 

XXV. 

sauce,  193. 
Baked  custard,  302. 

pears,  302. 
Baking  plate,  xiii. 
Balance  skewer,  xxi. 
Baldwin's   fromag^re   for 

toasting  cheese,  298. 
Balls  of  eggs,  282. 
Balm  wine,  379. 
Banbury  cakes,  359. 
Barbel,  boiled,  158. 

broiled,  158. 

stewed,  158. 
Barberry  drops,  331. 

jelly,  314. 

marmalade,  321. 

prepare   for   tartiets, 
332. 

preserved  in  buncheSi 
332. 

to  candy,  332. 


MS 


Bariey  faroih,  Sootch,  46. 

jniddingy  253. 

wine,  37d. 
Baiting  liidle,  xm 
Bath  bum,  369. 
Batter  poddingSy  255. 

bunit  lauoey  193. 
Beani»  i  la  Bretonne,  217. 

ii  la  Fianpaiae,  217. 

i  la  maitre  d*hdtel, 

217.  ^ 
botied,  218. 

en  allumette^  217. 
French,  216. 
pickled,  350. 
fnca«6ed,217. 
garden,       picaoried, 

218,  332. 
haricot,  218. 

ilaFran^uae,219. 
root!,  219. 
white,  219. 
do.»    Spanith    re- 
ceipt, 219. 
pur^e  of  white,  218. 
salad  of,  218. 
stewed,  218. 
tarts,  269. 
to  keep,  216,^17. 
Bechamel,  192. 
8aaoe,lS3. 
Beef,ilabnu8e,72. 
a  la  marinade,  66. 
a  la  mode,  75. 
do.,  another  way, 
76. 
fafains  a  la  sauce  pi- 

quante,  81. 
brains  filed,  81. 
brisket    of^    stewed, 

77. 
bouilli,  99. 
bubble   and  squeak, 

81. 
cake,  73. 
coUaied,  65. 
collops,  74. 
minced    an    nature!, 

74. 
savouiy,  74. 
cow  heel,  83. 
fillet  of,  66. 
roasted,  66. 

or   round,    spiced, 

67. 
fricandeau,  77* 
fricassee,   cold  roast, 

77. 
fork,  xviii. 
gravy,  37. 
haricot    of    ox-tails, 

76. 


Bed;  hashed,  79, 
heart,  74. 

roasted,  74. 
hong,  69,  70. 
Dutch,  70. 
hunten^68« 
kidnej    rqgnon     de 
bcBuf     snperbe, 
mea,  /4. 

kgo^bRith,45. 
marrow  bones,  81. 
baked,  81. 
dives,  67. 

ox-cheek,  iiew  of,  78. 
ox-tails,  76. 
paUtes  o^  72. 
pickle  for,  eSk 
pie%  laised  with  tmf- 

flesb24U 
potted,  83,  233. 
roast,  S5. 
rand  de  bosaf  en  mi- 

niatave,  67. 
round  o^  salt»  67. 
nunps  ^  en  laale- 

k)4te.77. 
rump,  stewed,  68. 

steak,  stewed,  70. 
phiin,  broiled,  70. 
sauer  croot,  (German 

receipt,  78. 
saniiden,78» 
sausages,  81. 
sirloin,  the  inside,  to 
cook,  66. 
another  way,  66. 
another  way,  66. 
spiced  66* 
soup,  39. 
steak-tongs,  xix, 
steaks  a  la  Francaise, 
71. 
broiled,  71. 
Parisienne,  72* 
pie.  240,  241. 
pudding,  255. 
rolled  and  roasted,  7 1 . 
stew,  71. 
stewed,     paste     for, 

272. 
tongues,  to  cure,  70. 
to  dress,  80. 
larded,  80. 
stewed,  80. 
tripe,  32, 
Beer,  to  restore  stale,  406. 
Beetroots,  219. 
Beverages,  386. 

aqua  mirabilis,  386. 
cherry  brandy,    386. 
black,  386. 


Bevciags%    capilUve^   to 

make,  387, 
•yrap  oC  387« 
caudle,  387. 
candle,  a  brown,  387. 

a  white,  387. 
aixafoa,386. 
hippocms,  388. 
red,  388. 
white,  388. 
Kiiichen  waaaer,  388. 
lemonade,  388. 
maraschino,  388. 
mead,  329. 
frontiniac,  389. 
sack,  389. 
Noyeau,  389. 
orangeade,  390. 
par&it  amour,  390. 
pimclv390. 
milk,  390. 
rum  milk  §x  tartie 

itfyap  390* 
ratafia  of  foor  firuits 

391. 
iatafiaofaae^39I. 
ratafia  witheat  sugar 

orsynip,39L 
shrub,  391. 
aaotherieoeipt,  391. 
sherbet,  391. 
Yaalla,     crane     of, 

399. 
vespetro,  392. 
wholesome  beierage, 

392. 
Bills  of  frie,  408. 
fbr  January,  411. 
February  and  March, 

411. 
April,  41 1. 
May,  412. 
June,  417. 
July,  422. 
August,  427. 
September,  43U 
October,  432. 
November,  432. 
December,  432. 
small  breakouts,  433. 
laige  dinner  for  thirty, 

433. 
ball  supper,  433. 
supper  for  50  or  60, 

433. 
Birch  wine,  379. 
Birds  potted,  234. 
Biscuit,  crust,  240.  \ 
deviUed,361. 
presenred     fruits    or 

sweataMats,  332. 
orange,  362. 


44 


Bbdk  oodt,  14ft. 
Kane  for  IM,  ISe. 
Bhuckberrj  wioe^  989. 
Blacking,  401. 
Bkcktopi^  «niple  i«Mipt» 
353. 

whole,  382. 
iwiiicniangeiy  329a 

i  b  Francaiwy  322. 

Dutch,  323. 

en  snrpme,  322. 

with  preserfedoninge, 

hot,  323. 
Bknqaette  d*agneBii,  109. 
de  monton,  102. 
de  Tean,  92. 

BoilixigtObservatioiiB  011,63. 
Bordeaux  cake,  361. 
Borden  of  butter,  288. 
Bottled  asparagus,  331. 
Bzandj  apricots,  329. 

cherries,  333. 

cherry  black,  386. 

greengages,  341. 
Bread,  870. 

and  butter  puddings, 
256. 

cheesecakes,  363. 

French,  370. 
rolls,  .371. 

puddings,  256. 

Scotch,  short,  371. 
Breakfast  cake,  865. 

hot,  360.    '' 
Brewing,  393. 
Bride  cake,  360. 
Brill,  158. 
Brioche  cheese,  291. 
Broccoli^  220. 

and  buttered  egg8,220. 
Broiling,  obsenratiuns  on, 

64. 
Bmth,  45. 

beef,  81. 

fish,  54. 
Brown  bread,  ice,  309. 

caudle,  387. 

colouring    for   made 
dishes,  211. 

sauce,  193. 

stock  for  soups,  35. 

stout,  396. 
Bnllaces,  to  preserre,  333. 
Buna,  369. 

Bath,  369. 

common,  369,  370. 
plum,  370. 
teed,  370. 
Burton  ale,  395. 


Butter,  288. 

kotden,  288. 

cakesi  861. 

ioeda 

melted  without  boil- 
iiy,288. 

preKf  fed    lot    win- 
ter^2e8. 

to  dariiy,  288. 
Buttered  cgga^282. 


c. 

Gabbagei,  220. 

and  bacon,  221. 

boiled,  220. 

and  stewed,  220. 

for  game,  221. 

ragotit,  221. 

red.  221. 

pickled,  350,  351. 

to  stew,  221. 

8ahid,221. 

to  keep.  220. 

white,  pickled,  351. 
Cabinet  pudding,  256, 257. 
Cakes.  358. 

almond,  icing  for,  354. 

almond,  small,  359. 

Banbury,  359. 

beef,  73, 

Bordeaux,  361. 

break&st,  365. 
or  tea,  360. 

bride,  360. 
almond,   idng  for, 
809. 

butter,  361. 

carraway,  364. 

cheny,  364. 

cinnamon.  364. 

colouring  for,  314. 

curd,  364. 

currant,  364. 

diet  bread.  361. 

family,  365. 

good  plum,  366. 

gooseberry,  365. 

icing  for,  308. 

lemon,  365. 

making  and  baking, 
358. 

pound,  366. 

plum  or  plain,  366. 

quince,  367. 

raspberry,  367. 

rice,  367. 
pound,  367. 

rout,  367. 

Savoy,  368. 

sponge,  367. 


Cakes,  twdfth,  888. 
Yorkshire,  8(>8. 
Calfs  braim^  96. 
esit,  94. 
■tnffod,  94. 
leet,  95. 

fiicasB^ed,  95. 
itewed,  95. 
head,  92,  93. 
a  h  mahie  dliOtc 

93. 
&  la  toitiie,  94. 
baked,  93. 
for  grill,  92. 
hashed,  94. 
pie,  241. 
heart,  96. 
kidn^,  96. 
liver,  96. 
foet  soup    a   la  ti 

reen,  94. 
tail  soup,  44. 
foot  jelly,  314. 
Candied  citron,  336. 
greengages,  341. 
plums,  345. 
Cane-bottom     chairs,    t 

make,  401. 
Caper  sauces,  194. 
Capillaire,  to  make,  387. 

syrup  of,  387. 
Caramel,  conserve,  3*27. 
Carp,  162. 

stewed,  162. 
sauce.  195. 
Cardoons,  222. 

in  cheese,  293. 
Ca.'raway  cakes,  364. 
Carrot  pudding,  259. 

soup,  56. 
Carving,  necessity  of  pra( 

tising,  15. 
Cases,  patty, to  cut  nut,27 1 
Casserole  of  rice,  277. 
Caudle,  387. 
brown.  387. 
white,  387. 
Cauliflowen,  222. 
and  cheese,  293. 
au  fromage,  222. 
a  la  Fran9aise,  222. 
to  boil,  2*22. 
chartreuse  of,  222. 
Char,  potted,  234. 
Chartreuse  of  vegetable 

213. 
Ccdrat  ice  water,  310. 
Celery,  195. 
sauce,  195. 
soup,  57. 
stewed,  57 
pickled,  223. 


m 


tsvaoL 


JSi. 
a  lllilieoaB,  359. 

aa  •Btnowt,  257* 
ChMp  fluiet.  195. 

■oiifi9  4d. 

food,  40. 
GMdtreMw»390. 

■iideniliflow«r%  298. 
•priooty  to  make,  291. 
aitificiaL  291. 
M  lood  batter.  292. 
lkioehOi29L 
endboDs  Iflit  291* 
Clioddtf,390. 
Chfliliira^289. 
.  oold  Imtten  ibr,288. 
cnb,292. 
cia7fiali,292. 
eratm,  290»  292. 

and     nannaladOy 
292. 

ked,292. 
aaoUMT  recdpty 
292. 

292. 
daoMony  298, 294. 
Derbjr»290. 
doome      OUwceitery 

289. 
Dunlop,  290. 
entrSes,  294. 
foreign,  290. 
fresh,  294. 
fritten,290,294. 
Gniyere^  290. 
inaccaroiii,  295. 
niariffold,  294. 
North  WUt8hiie,289. 
paste,  295. 
pork,  295. 
Italian,  296. 
potted,  234,  291. 
pounded,  295. 
puffii,  296. 

roested,  for  after  din- 
\  ner,  296. 

sage,  297. 
Swtch  rabbit,  toasted, 

298. 
single  61ouoester,290. 
stewed,  297. 
aouffle,  296. 
soup,  297. 
toast,  297. 
toasU  of,  291. 
to  preservesound,  296. 
Walsh  rabbit,  298. 


Chaise,  Welsh  rabbit,  an- 1 

Clear 

other  way,  298. 

• 

with  segs,  282. 
Gbsan  oaksa,  38i2. 

Clotte 
Cloud; 

ita  Due  da  Guise, 

Cocoa 

888. 

CockH 

Cod,l) 

appl%  363. 

b 

bread,  363. 

c 

coaninoiL  362. 
eitron,8o3. 

c 

de  Sl  Denis,  362. 

. .  Jamon,  863. 

t 

'<»iiife^364. 

h 

Cheese  tesstsr,  xvL 

€ 

Chanis^    dried   without 

I 

sugar,  333. 

S 

hi  bnusdj,  333. 

s 

Chanis^  prssenred  dry  in 
bonehes,  334. 

s 
s 

to  candy,  334. 

s 

to  dry,  334. 

to  keep,  334. 

Cherry  brandy,  333,  386. 

s 

b]aek,386. 

t 

cakes,  364. 

CoffiM 

custards,  302.  . 

ioe,BlO. 

c 

cream,  304. 

Jelly,  316. 

marmalade^  321. 

• 

puddina,  258, 259. 

i 

1 

wine,  380. 

1 

Chevaux  de  frisCjlamb^  1 09. 

1 

Chickens.  137. 

and  ham,  potted,  234. 

< 

4 

boiled,  136. 

, 

braised,  137. 

1 

bioth.  46. 

curried,  137. 

^ 

cutleU  of,  137. 

I 

fried,  a  la  Malabar, 

137. 

; 

pie,  241. 

puUed,  137/ 

Chocolate,  371,  376. 

bonbons,  377. 

cream,  304. 

drops,  376. 

whipped,  304. 

wine,  380. 

Chub,  boiled,  163. 

broUed,  163. 

Colot 

Cinnamon  odces,  364. 

Citron,  candied,  336. 

cheesecakes,  363. 

Colo 

pudding,  258. 

presenred  liquid,  336. 

Com 

white,  336. 

Claret,  artificial,  380. 

Com 

Clary  wine,  380. 

INDEX. 


445 


Compote    of  giwogages, 

341. 
Confectionery,  824. 
CoDierre     of      apricots, 
329. 

earamely  327. 

■trewberry,  348. 
Contents  of  chapten,  tiL 
Cook-hold,  xxi. 
Cooking  appmatui  (gas), 

XXY. 

Cottager's  store,  xxy. 
Court  bouillon,  190. 
Cow-heel,  83. 

another  way,  83. 
Cowslip  wine,  381. 
Crab  162. 

baked,  163. 
cheese,  292. 
dressed,  182. 
Cray-fish,  163. 
in  aspic,  163. 
soup,  52. 
Creams,  303. 

a  la  Fmn^aise,  374. 
i  Teau  a  la  FTan9aise, 

374. 
apricot,  303. 
au  naturel,  306.    - 
cabbage,  803. 
cbeese,  209,  202. 
and  marmalade,  292. 
iced,  293. 

another       receipt, 

293. 
plain,  fkmily  way, 
292. 
eherry  ice,  304. 
chocolate,  304. 

whipped,  304* 
clotted,  304. 
coffee  au,  374. 
currant,  305. 
currant  ice,  305, 311. 
custard,  h02, 
duth6,  377. 
excellent,  304. 
gooseberry,  305. 
fresli  strawberry  ice, 

309. 
pancnkes,  278, 
pastry,  805. 
Italian,  305. 
lemonade,  305. 
pine  apple,  30^. 
raspberry    and    cur- 
rant, 306. 
Rhenish,  306. 
sauce,  196. 
strawberry  ice,  305. 
strawberries,  305, 306. 
substitute  for,  406. 


Cream,  tea,  317.  ' 

to  take  milk   from, 

406. 
to  keep,  306. 
YanUla,  392,  406. 
coffee,  374. 
au  bain  marie,  374. 

a  I'eau,  374. 
a  Teau  a  la  Fran9aise, 

375. 
whipped     coffee     a 

Teau,  375. 
white,  374. 
Cr^me,  omelet  4  la,  284. 
Croquets,  276. 

of  rice,  276. 
Crust,  short,  359.  * 

and  rich,  not  sweet, 
358. 
Cucumbers,  young,  to  pic- 
kle, 351. 
and  onions,  to  pickle, 

251. 
sauce,  196. 
stewed,  222. 
cullis  for  all  sorts  of 

meat,  82. 
cuni9oa,  386. 
Curd  cakes,  364. 
pudding,  259. 
puffs,  275. 
Curing  beef,  69. 
tongue,  79. 
Currants  (black)  water  ice, 
311. 
cakes,  304. 
cream,  305. 
fresh  water  ice,  311. 
fritters  a  la  dauphine, 

279. 
ices,  305,  311. 
jam,  335. 
black,  335. 
of  all  colours,  335. 
jelly  black,  315. 
red,  315. 
white,  315. 
white  or  red,  315. 
dumplings,  267. 
tart,  269. 
marmaHide,  321. 
preserved,  335. 
dry,  335. 
for  tarts,  335. 
pudding,  258. 
Curries,  cod,  160. 
ehicken,  137. 
fish,  164. 

4  rindienne,  104. 
lobster,  170. 
soles,  188. 
soup,  39. 


Curries,  veal,  92. 
cutlets,  88. 
whidngs,  188. 
Custards,  301. 

a  la  Parisienne,  302. 
almond,  801. 
baked,  302. 
cherry,  302. 
cream,  302. 
plain,  302. 
f^,   lemon,  303. 
orange,  303. 
rice  without  cream, 

803. 
souflSes,  286. 
Cutlet  pan,  xx. 
Cutlets,  fowl  and  game, 
154. 
mutton,  100. 
Cutlets,  yeal,  88. 
Cyprus    wine,   to  imitate 
382. 


D. 

Damson  cheese,  293, 294. 
dried,  336.  337. 
dumplings,  267. 
jelly.  316. 
pudding,  259. 
tart,  270. 
to  keep,  337. 
to  presenre,  337« 
wine,  382. 
Daried  mould,  xxi.  ' 
Dauphin  gftteau,  274. 
Decanters,  to  clean,  401.  ] 
Derby  cheese,  290. 
Derbyshire  pudding,  264. 
De  St.  Denis  cheesecakes, 

362. 
Derilled  biscuits,  361. 
Diet  bread  cake,  361. 
Different  degrees  of  pre- 
paring,     sugar, 
325. 
Digester     (Baldwin    and 
Co.'s)  XT.   I 
saucepan,  xr. 
stewpan,  xTi.' 
Directions  for  using  Bald- 
win's Fromagere, 
298. 
Dish  ooTer,  xiii. 
Dishing  up  fork,  xix. 
Double  Gloucester  cheese, 

289. 
Dried  apples,  330.^ 

cherries  without  su- 
gar, 333. 
damsons,  336,  837. 


4i6 


^r^n 


Dried  greengifBi^  SiL 
Dripping,  pan,  xtL 
Drops,  bflriMny^  SdL 

chocolate^  57&. 
D«c  de  Guite^  rlnnmnil 

a  la,  863. 
Ducks,  131. 

boUed,l82. 

hashed,  132* 

pie,  243. 

roasted^  181.    . 

■tewed,  133. 

wi2d,  133^ 
Dumplings,  appla,  2G7. 

baked,  267. 

currant  jelly,  267. 

damson,  267. 

hard,  267. 

Norfolk,  267. 

paste,  267. 

raspberry,  268, 

Scotch,  267. 

suet,  268. 

yeast,  268. 
Dunlop  cheese^  290. 
Dutch  sauce,  197. 

herriagsy  328. 


B. 

Edinburgh  oat  ale,  395. 
Eels,  164. 

anguilles     a     I'HoI- 
landaiae,  164. 

boiled,  165. 

colLired,  165. 

crumbed,  165. 

fried,  165. 

pie,  242. 

sauce,  197. 

soup,  52. 

spitchcocked,  166. 

stewed,  166. 
Eggs,  282. 

balls,  282. 

buttered,  282. 

flip,  399. 

grutin  of,  with  cheese, 
282. 

hot,  :i99. 

muitre  d'h6tel,  282. 

pie,  242. 

pie,  minced,  242. 

plovers,  283. 

pouched,  282. 

poacher,  xviii. 

preserve,  to,  405. 

sauce,  197. 
Scotch,  283. 

timhall  o^  283. 
whisky  xxL 


Elder  buds.  pkklad»  86SL 

win^  382. 

another  iiaj»  882. 

flower  wma^  382. 
£ndivfli^233k 

au  jus^223. 

lauc^  197. 
En  lurpriwy  hbBcmaiige, 

332. 
Entries  of  fish,  157. 

cheese,  ^84. 
Entremct,  charlotte,  257. 

jellies  for,  316. 
Espagnole*  43. 
Excellent  creaB.d04. 


P. 

Family  dessert,  to  presenre 
fruit  for,  338. 
cakea,365. 
Fancy  pastry,  240. 
Farces  and  stuffings,  210. 
Farce  of  veal  of  fowl,  2 10. 
Fawn,  to  drsas,  144. 
Fennel  sauce,  197. 
Figs,green,  to  pKsenre,337. 
Figs,  ripe,  to  preserve,337. 
Fillet  of  veal,  84. 
mutton,  101. 
Fine  cochineal  colouring, 

312. 
Fire,  economical  use  of, 
403. 
stewpan,  xvi. 
to  extinguish,  403. 
Fish,  salt  and  fresh  water, 
155. 
anchovies,  190. 
butter,  190. 
essence  of,  190. 
to  know  good, 1 90. 
toast  of,  190. 
with    fried    bread, 
190. 
barbel,  boiled,  158. 
broiled,  158. 
stewed,  158. 
brill,  158. 
carp,  162. 

stewed,  162. 
choice   dishes  of,  for 
entries,  156. 
to  choose,  31. 
chub,    broiled,    163, 

164. 
cod,  baked,  160. 
boiled,  158. 
crimped,  159. 
curried,    160,  161. 
See  also  receipts, 
506  and  609. 


F^S  cod,  faciii^ei,  lil. 

head,l€8k 

onektta^llS. 

pie^lM. 

•alt,  161. 

fcaUoped.  160.* 

alieea  0^159. 

•onndi,  boiled,  159i 
broiled,  162. 
Bi9o4t»I69. 

stew^  158. 

tail  Q^  160. 
'  Qoid  jelly,  to  eeiv, 

317. 
enb,  162. 

baked,  183. 

droned,  163. 
Cray  fish,  16l 

in  iisj^,  163. 
cuUiaoi;  191. 
curries  of,  164. 

a  I'IndienAe,  164. 
eels,  164. 

anguilles  a  I'Hol- 
landaiie,  164. 

boiled,  165. 

collared,  165. 

crumbed,  105. 

fried,  16&. 

pae^242. 

saue^  197. 

ioap^52. 

spitchcocked,  166. 

stewed,  166, 
fritters,  280. 
gurnet    or    gunmrd, 

166. 
haddocks,  167. 

bake,  168. 

broil,  168. 

finnon,  to  cure,  167. 

dress,  to,  167. 

dress  dried.  167 

dry,  to.  167. 

soup,  52. 

stew,  167. 
halibut,  filleU  of,  167. 

stewed,  167. 
herrings,  168. 

baked,  168. 

boiled,  169. 

broiled,  169. 

fried,  169. 

pot,  to,  169. 
kettle  and  slice,  xril 
lobsters,  169. 

butter,  170. 

cnrjied,  170. 

gratinof,  170. 

or  prawns,  or  craj- 
fish,  as  receipti 
163,  620. 


ut 


Fbh,  lohsteff%  row*.  170L 

MfTed,  199k  ' 

itewed^  )70. 
madnurd^  171. 

lwked»]7K 

brofltd,  171. 

boH€8  broiled^  17*2. 

filkls  of.  1Z2. 
boitedLlZa. 
'    fry  i  ki  Fhwcaue, 
173. 
»lamattred*bd<k 
tel,  173. 

pie.  171. 

ttewed^  173. 
marinade,  157. 
XDullety  grey,  1Z4. 

red,  173. 

other  wajB,  174. 
obiefTHtionB  on 
cleaning    and 
dressing,  155. 
oysters,  175. 

a  rimperiale^  174. 

fritters  175* 

pie,  175. 

xoatt,  175. 

scalloped,  175. 

■tewed,  175. 

patties,  273. 
pie,  243. 
jack.  176. 
John  Dory^  164. 
pike,  176. 

hake,  I76. 

boil,  176, 
plaice,  177. 
prawns,  I76. 

boil,  177. 

serte.  177. 
Bonps,  51. 

magniBque,  52. 
saladt,  18B. 

Italian,  189. 

lobster,  189. 
inan  Italian,  189. 
salmon,  177. 

boil.  179. 

broilecU  180. 

collared,  179. 

crimped  ila  crdme, 
178. 

dressed,  177. 

dried  to  broil,  1 80. 

dry,  to,  178. 

en  papfllotes,  180. 

pickle,  to,  179. 

pot,  to,  179. 

padding,  18L 

quenellea,  180. 

roasted,  180^ 

180.      ' 


liah  tdtMBi.  vru. 
shrimya^  185. 
toast    croiita 

crerallea,  185. 
ilaiwaaAmtlk^ 
185. 
■kate^l83. 

crimpad,  183. 
smelts,  185. 
bake,  185. 
aores,l81. 
k    la    PortngnaM^ 

182. 
auplat,  182. 
bailad,  UK 
bread       crumbed, 

161. 
fiUeta  of*  in  aspic, 

183. 
fillets  fried,  to  go 
rotrad  other  fi£, 
183. 
iillets   for    a   pie, 

182. 
■laltre        d*h5tel, 
182. 
stuigeon,  184. 
baked,  184. 
boiled,  181. 
broiled,  184. 
fillets  of,  184. 
maftre        d'hdtel, 

185. 
roasted,  184. 
stewed,  184. 
trout,  185. 
truibe  a  la  genevoise, 
186. 
u    1a    princesse 

royale,  186. 
stewed,  186. 
turbot,  186. 
a  la  roi,  187. 
fillets  of,  187. 
water  souchy,  187. 
whitings,  188. 
curry  of,  188. 
fillets    of,    mattre 
'     d'h6tel,  188. 
quenelles  of,  188. 
white  bait,  188. 
Flip,  egg,  or  egg  hot,  399. 
Floor,  cloth  to  clean,  401. 
Flour,  to  detect  whiting  or 

chalk  in,  402. 
Fondeau,  299. 
Foreign  cheeses,  290. 
Fool,  apple,  307. 

gboaeberry,  307. 
Forcemeat       ingredients, 

210,211. 
Four  fruits,  ratafia  of,  39 1 . 


Fowls,  133. 

i  la  b^ebamel,  ISff. 

ii  la  Pio vandal,.  135. 

and  awat^  362. 

bss2cd,lS3. 

broiled,  134. 

cold,  133. 

fiicass^  of,  135. 

gravy  for,  136. 

grill,  if  cold,  134. 

Guinea,  roasted,  135. 

hashed,  134. 

pudding,  259. 

roast,  133. 

with  truffle%  134. 
Fzansaise,  pancakes  ^  la, 

278. 
Freezing  machine,  (Ben- 
oam's  patent)  xiv. 
French  bread,  370. 

cook's  knife,  xir. 

dish  of  pastry,  276. 

filter,  to  make  coffee, 
373. 

method  of  preparing 
coffee,  372. 
French  rolls,  371. 
Fresh  cheese,  294. 

cream,  strawberry  ice, 
o^  309. 
Fricandeau,  beef,  77. 

▼eal,  92. 
Fricaas^,  roast  beef^  cold, 

77. 

fowl,  135. 

rabbit,  153. 
Fritters,  278.  279. 

apple,  279. 

apricot,  279. 

au  blanc,  279. 

a    rAnglo-FEan9ai8e, 
279. 

cheese,  294. 

a  la  dauphine,  280. 

fish,  280. 

mould,  xiz. 

omelet,  284. 

orange,  280.  * 

oystaz,  280. 

Parmesan,  280 

royale,  211. 

souffltfes,  281. 

Spanish,  281. 
Fromagere,  directions  for 

using,  298. 
Frontiniac  mead,  389. 
Frothed  or  whipped  cof- 
fee, 376. 
Fruit  biscuits  of  any  kind, 
361. 

candy,  328. 

frost  bittcB,  40S. 


448 


IHPBX. 


^TQlty  j|f06Df  to  ^nttm  Of 

pickle,  8S8. 
pnoenre,  to,  888. 
and  Tcgotablei,  froit- 
bHten,  408. 
Fryiiif-pa,  XX. 
Fumtture  polkh,  408. 


0. 

Galantine  of  Teal,  90. 
Game,  142. 

black-oock,    roaated, 

145. 
capon  or  foirl,to  force, 

as  turkef » 153. 
cutlets  of,  154. 
&im,  to  dren,  144. 
grouse,  146. 
bares,  146. 

fillets  of,  148. 

hasbed,  147. 

jugged,  146. 

pie,  244. 

potted,  148,  234. 

salmi  of,  153. 

senit  of,  148. 

soup,  47. 

stuffing  for,  146, 
kid,  to  dress,  144. 
leverets,  148. 
moor  game,  146. 
ortolan,  148. 

English,  151. 
partridges,  145. 

boiled,  145. 

broiled,  145. 

pie,  247. 

soup,  48. 

stewed,  145. 
pheasants,  144. 

boiled,  144. 
ploTcrs,  151. 
pudding,  254. 
rabbits,  152. 

a  la  Franpaise,  153. 

boiled,  152. 

dressed,  153. 

fricassee,  153. 

roast,  152. 

with  onions,  153. 
ruffii  and  reeves,  151. 
snipes,  152. 
woodcocks,  152. 
yenison,  142. 

to  dress,  143. 

hash,  143. 

neck  of,  144. 

shoulder  of,  143. 
Garlic,  198. 
sauce,  198. 


Gamishing^  oneleta  of  flgai 

for,  284. 
Gat-cooking     appantni, 

XXT. 

Giteauy  Daophiny  24. 

of  rice,  275. 
GUeau,  NeapoUtaiiy  274. 
Gendanne,  omdet  &  la, 

284. 
Genoese  paste,  289,  * 
Genoisea,  865. 
Gbiridns    for    Mlads   or 
pickles,  839. 
pickled,  352. 
preaerred  wet,  389.] 
Giblet  pie,  248. 
soup,  46. 

turkej    i    la   bour- 
geoise,  181. 
Ginger  beer,  404. 
candied,  889. 
cream,  ice,  309. 
presenred,  838. 
wine,  383. 
Glao6e  omelet,  284. 
Gloisaiy  of  foreign  terms 
used  in  cookery, 
408. 
Good  plum  cake,  366. 
Goooe,  green,  131. 
old  or  young,  131. 
pie,  244. 
pies,      Staffordshire, 

253. 
to  roast,  131. 
Gooseberry  cakes,  364. 
cream,  305. 
fool,  307. 
jam,  340. 
pie,  243. 
pudding,  259. 
sauce,  198. 
tart,  ^jeen,  270. 
Goosebemes  as  jam,  340. 
preserved,  339. 
*    ripe,     comp6te     of, 
340. 
to  keep,  340. 
wine,  383. 
Gratin,  209. 
Grape  tart,  270. 
Grapes,  green,  to  preserve, 
340. 
pickled,  352. 
preserved  in  clusters, 

340. 
wine,  383. 
Gravy,  beef,  37. 
clear,  37. 

for  fowl,  when  there  is 
no  meat  for  it, 
136. 


Qmrj  ioap,  87,  88. 

T«d,88. 
Green  apt ieota,  to  ptMcm^ 

828. 
Green-colonred  engar,  327. 
Greengagee.  841. 

brandy  in,  841. 

candy  to,  841. 

compote  o^  841. 

dried,  341. 

jam,  841. 
Ground  rice  podding,  265. 
Grouse,  146. 

to  roast,  146. 
Gruyere  dieeae,  290. 
Guinea  fowl,  1 37. 
Gum  paste,  239. 

mould,  xzi. 
Gurnet  or  gurnard,  166. 


Haddocks,  167. 

boil,  168. 

bake,  168. 

Finnon,  to  cure,  167. 

dress,  to,  197. 

dress  dried,  167* 

diy,  to,  167. 
Haddock,  soup,  52. 

stew,  167. 
Hagg^  Scotch,  104. 
HaUbot,  167. 

stewed,  167. 
Hams,  123. 

to  bake,  123. 

boiled,  122. 

braise,  124. 

in      the     French 
foshion,  124. 

cure,  122,  123. 

rashera  or  slices,  124. 

sauce,  198. 
Hard  dumplings,  267. 

water  to  render  soft, 
404 
Hares,  146. 

fillets  of  148. 

hashed,  147. 

jugged,  146,  147. 

leverets,  148. 

pie,  244. 

potted,  148,  234. 

salmi  of,  1 53. 

senit  of,  148. 

soup,  47. 

stuffing  for,  146. 
Haricot,  mutton,  102. 

veal,  90. 
Harvey  sauce,  205. 
Hashed  mutton,  102. 


INDEX. 


Hasty  cream,  305. 
Hedgehog,  260. 
Herb  soup,  57. 
sauce,  198. 
for  drying,  404. 
to  keep,  xxvi. 
AemngSy  168. 

fresh,  baked,  168. 
boiled,  169. 
broiled,  169. 
fried.  169. 
pickle,  353. 
pot,  169. 
Heron  pie,  244. 
Hesfian  soup,  40. 
Hints  to  cooks,  important, 

XXV. 

Hippocras,  388. 

red,  388. 

white,  388. 
Honey,  to  clarify,  404. 
Home-made  wines,  378. 

apricot,  379. 

balm,  379. 

barley,  379. 

birch,  379. 

blackberry,  380. 

cherry,  380. 

chocolate,  380. 

claret,  artificial,  380. 

clary,  380. 

cowslip,  381. 

currant,  381. 

red  or  white,  381. 

cvpress,    to    imitate, 
382. 

damson,  382. 

elder,  382. 
another,  382. 

elder    flower     wine, 
382. 

ginger,  383. 

gooseberry,  383. 

grape,  383. 

mountain,  384. 

mulberry,  384. 

orange,  384. 

parsnip,  384. 

raisin,  384. 

raspberry,  385. 

walnut,  385. 
Hops,,399. 
Horseradish,  198. 

sauces  198,  199. 
Hot  blancmange,  323. 
Hot  plate,  xxiii. 

water  apparatus,  xxii., 
xxvi. 

water  to  make  coffee, 
373. 
Hotch-potch,  57. 
Hung  beef,  69. 


Hunter's  beef,  68. 


I. 

Ices,  307. 

cedrat,  310. 
water,  810. 

cherry,  310. 

currant,  309. 
fresh  water,  311. 

currants  to,  310. 

ginger  cream,  309. 
Ice  for  iceing,  308. 

tea,  377. 

mould,  xiv. 

puddings,  260. 

with  marmalade,  260. 

orange  water,  311. 

pineapple  cream,  309. 

red     currant     water, 
311. 

Vanilla  cream,  310. 

water  generally,  311. 

water,  black  currant, 
309. 
white  currant,  311. 

safe,  or   refrigerator, 
xvi. 
Iceing  for  cakes,  308. 

tarts,  309. 
India  pickle,  353. 
Indian  pilau,  136. 
In  haste,  pudding,  264. 
Ink  spots,  to  remove,  405. 
Irish  stew,  103. 
Isinglass,  to  clarify,  404, 

405. 
Italian  cream,  305. 

soup,  42. 
Italienne,  57. 

pancakes  u  la,  278. 

siilads,  205,  207. 

sauce,  199. 


J. 

Jack,  to  choose,  176, 
Jam,  black  currant,  335. 

currants      generally, 
335. 
Jam,  cherry,  331,  335. 

gooseberry,  340. 

goose]>errie8  as,  341. 

greeng.ige,  341. 
Jam,  mixed   for  tarts  or 
tartlets,  275. 

raspberry,  346. 

strawberry ,  34  7. 
Jargonelle  pears,  345. 
Jaune  d'oeuf,  coffee  aa,  375. 

6  G 


Jellie^3I2. 
apple,  313. 

another  way,  313. 
apricots,  314. 
apricots  in,  313. 
aspic,  312. 
barberry,  314. 
calves'  foot,  314. 
cherry,  316. 
clear,  315. 
clear  apple,  312. 
coffee,  376. 
colouring  for,  314. 
currant,  315. 

black,  315. 

red,  315. 

red  or  white,  315. 

^hite,  315. 
damson,  316. 
for  entremets,  316. 
lemon,  317. 
mosaic,  317. 
orange,  317. 
pint  mould  of,  318. 
raspberry,  318. 
red  apples  in,  313. 
rose,  318. 
rum,  319. 
savoury,  to  put  over 

cold  pies,  317. 
to    cover    cold    fish, 

317. 
to  keep,  316. 
Jelly  bag,  xx. 

mould,  xxL 
John  dorv,  164. 
Julienne  soup,  58. 


Kebobbed  mutton,  104. 
Ketchup,  mushroom,  354. 

tomato,  355. 

M'alnut,  356. 
Knife-board,  useful,  407* 
Kid,  to  dress,  144. 
Kidneys,  72. 

rognon  do  boeuf 
superbe  fried, 
72. 

stewed,  73. 

mutton  broiled,  105. 
Kirschen  wasser,  388. 


L. 

Lard,  124. 
Larding-knife,  xix. 

pin,  xviii. 
Lamb,  107. 


450 


INDEX* 


Lamb,    blanquette    d'ag- 
nemi,  109. 
bmat   ot^   to    it«w, 

109. 
cbemuidtfiiie,  109. 
with  fw«et- 

titeada,109. 
cbopSy  109* 
fore>quarter  o^  107. 
head  and  dninc^es, 

111. 
leg  of,  108. 
leg  of.  to  boil,  107. 

to  roast,  107. 
loin,  to  grill,  108. 
to  itew,  108. 
party,  27-2. 
pie,  244,  245. 
laddleof,  107. 
sauce,  199. 
shoulder  of,  108. 
forced  and 

braised,  108. 
larded,  108. 
soup,  45. 
tail  soup,  44. 
sweetbreads,  110. 
another  way,  1 1 0. 
as  cutlets,  111. 
crumbed  au  gratin, 

111. 
cutlets  glazed,  111. 
fricasseed,    brown, 

110. 
fricasa^ed,     white, 

110. 
larded  a  la  danbe, 

110. 
larded  with  bacon, 

111. 
roast,  111. 
■weetbreads,    stewed 
(fin    de    veau), 
110. 
with  truffles.  111. 
trotters,  112. 
Larnpreyt,  166. 
Larks,  140. 

to  roast,  141. 
raised  pie.  245. 
Leek  (Scotch)  soup,  58. 
Lemonade,  388. 
licmon  cake,  365. 
cheesecakes,  363. 
custard,  343. 
green,  preserved,  342. 
ice  cream,  305. 
ice  pudding,  26 1 . 

jelly,  317. 
juice,  to  keep,  342. 
mince  pies,  245. 
Lemon?,  pickled,  342. 


Lemons,,  to  kaap,  fbr  pea- 
serving,  343. 
Lemon  pudding,  261. 

sauce,  199. 

water  ice,  311. 
Lettuces.  229. 
Linen,  to  perftime,  405. 
Lintels,  20a 
Liver  sauce,  199. 

and    paisley    sauce, 
200. 
Liqueurs,  386. 
Lobsters,  169. 

butter,  170. 

curried,  170. 

gratin  of,  170. 

prawns  or   cray-fish, 
asno.520,p.l63. 

puree  of,  53. 

potted,  204. 

roast,  170. 

sauce,  200. 

served,  169. 

soup,  53. 

stewed,  I70. 


M. 

Macaroni,  299.^ 

brown,  299. 

cheese,  295. 

pudding,  261. 

soup,  39. 

timbale  of,  299. 
Macaroons,  365,  366. 

spiced,  366. 
Mackarcl,  171* 

bake,  171. 

boil,  171. 

broil,  171. 

bones,  broiled,  172. 

fillets  of,  172. 
boiled,  173. 
Mackarel,  fried  a  la  Fran- 
^aise,  173. 

a  la  >maitre  d'hotel, 
173. 

pie,  171. 

stewed,  173. 
Madeira  sauce,  209. 
Magnum    bnnum    plums, 

341. 
Mattre  d'h6tel,  a  la- 
beans,  217. 

calfs  head,  93. 

eggs.  282. 
dish  of,  282. 

mackarel,  173. 

potatoes,  225. 

aauce,  200. 


MaHre  dlidtel,  1 

soles,  182. 

sturgeon,  185» 

vegetables,  217. 
Malt,  999. 
Maraschino,  888. 
Marble,    iron    spoti    m 

40S. 
Marigold  ebeeae,  294. 
Marinade,  fish,  157. 
Marking  ink,  to  extract 

402. 
Marmalades.  319. 

apple,  319, 320. 
petits  g^teauzy  328 

apricot,  320. 
petits  gMeanx-fott 
res.  820. 

barberry,  821. 

cherry,  321. 

currant,  321. 

orange,  321. 

quince,  322. 

raspberry,  322. 

transparent,  319. 
Marrow  bones,  81. 

baked,  81. 

patties,  273. 

pudding,  261. 
baked,  261. 
Masbed  potato  fork,  zlv. 
Mead,  389. 

frontmiac,  889. 

sack.  389. 
Meat  and  fowls,  362. 

patties,  273. 

screen,  xx. 

soups,  35  to  46. 
Meats,  to  choose,  30. 

observations  on,  63. 

roast,  63. 
Melted  butter  without  boil 

ing,  288. 
Meringues,  277. 

apple,  277. 

to  make,  276. 
Metal  strainer,  xviiL 
Milk  or  cream,  substitut 

for,  406. 
Milk  coffee,  374. 

punch,  390. 

soup,  54. 
Millet  pudding,  262. 
Mince  meat,  245,  246. 

pie,  247. 

without  meat,  247. 

veal,  91. 
Mincing  knife,  xix. 
Mint  sauce,  200. 
Mirabilis,  aqua,  386. 
Miscellaneous       receipt 
401. 


INDEX. 


461 


MUcellaneous  noeipts — 
beer,  cloudy,  to  fine, 

403. 
beer,  stale,  to  restore, 

406. 
blacking,  401. 
cleaning    cane   chair 
bottoms,  401. 
decanters,  40  L 
floor-cloths,  401. 
pavements,  405. 
sponges,  402. 
silk  stockings,  402. 
turkeycarpets,  402. 
water  casks,  402. 
eggs,  to  preserve,  405. 
£re,  economical   use 

of,  403. 
to  extinguish,  403. 
frost-bitten  fruits,  or 
vegetables,  403. 
furniture  polish,  403. 
ginger  beer,  to  make, 

404. 
grease  spots,  to  ex- 
tract  ftom  silk, 
406. 
muslins,  406. 
hard  water,  to  make 

soft,  404. 
herbs,  for  drying,  404. 
honey,  to  clarify,  404. 
isinglass,    to    clarify, 

404,  405. 
iron  spots  on  marble, 

405. 
ink  spots,  to  remove, 

405. 
linen,     to     perfume, 

405. 
marking  ink,  to   ex- 
tract, 402. 
milk  or  cream,  sub- 
stitute for,   406. 
milk,   to   take   from 

cream,  406. 
nettles,  utility  of,  407. 
nutmeg,    economical 

use  of,  403. 
offensive    smells,    to 

cure,  405. 
rats  and  mice,  406. 
rice  milk,  406. 
sago,    substitute  for, 

406. 
silk,  to    take   stains 

out  of,  406. 
useful     knife   board, 

407. 
whiting   or   chalk,  to 
detect   in   flour, 
.  402. 


Moor  game,  146. 
Morels,  231. 

as  gravy,  231. 
keep,  231. 
Mortar  and  pestle,  xiii. 
Mosaic  jelly,  317. 
Mountain  wine,  384. 
Muffin  pudding,  262. 

with    dried    cherries, 
262. 
Mulberry  wine,  384. 
Mullet,  grey,  174. 

red,  174. 
Mulligatawney  soup,  43. 
Indian  method,  43. 
Mushrooms,  353. 
broiled,  2*29. 
ketchup,  354. 
mould,  xix. 
pickled,  354. 
white,  .354. 
sauce,  white,  201. 

brown,  201. 
a  TEspagnole,  201. 
Mussel  soup,  53. 
Mustard  sauce,  201. 
Mutton.  97. 

blanquette   de  mou- 

ton,  102. 
breast  of,  99. 

crumbed  or  gratin, 
99. 
broth,  45. 
chops,  100. 

as  beefsteaks,  100. 
broiled,  100. 
fried,  100. 
China  chilo,  103. 

another  way,  103. 
cutlets,  100. 

another  wav,  100. 
braised,  lOO'. 
butter  in,  100. 
Maintenon,  100. 
saut6,  100. 
fiUets  of,  101. 

in  marinade,    102. 
stewed,  101. 
haunch  of,  i/7. 
haricot  of,  1 02. 

another  way,  102. 
hash,  102. 
hashed,  102, 

another  way,  103. 
haggis,  scotch,  104. 
hams,  to  dress,  1 U5. 
Irish  stew,  103. 
kebobbed,  104. 
kidneys,  broiled,  105. 
leg  of  boiled.  98. 
boned  and  stufled, 
98. 

G  o  2 


Mutton,  leg  of,  braised,  98. 
roasted,  97. 
another  way,  97. 
which  has  been  cut, 
to  send  to  table 
neatly,  98. 
lob  of,  roasted,  99. 
steaks  from,  99. 
stewed,  99. 
like   venison,  105. 
neck  of,  99. 
pasty,  like    venison, 

105. 
pie,  247. 

pie  m6\6,  raised,  247. 
pudding,  262. 
rissoles  of,  104. 
rognon  de  mouton  a 
la     bourgeoisie, 
105. 
a  la  Franyaise,  104. 
saddle  of,  97. 
shoulder  of,  99, 
sheep's  tongues,  106. 
steaks,  99. 
stew,  Irish,  106. 
venison  as^  104. 


Nasturtiums,    to    pickle, 

354. 
Neapolitan  gftteau,  274. 
Neat's  tongue  pickled,354. 
Nectarines,  to  keep.  343. 

to  preserve,  343. 
Nettles,  407. 
Noix  de  ve«u,  91. 
Norfolk  dumplings,  267. 
North    Wiltshire    cheese, 

289. 
Noyeau,  389. 
Nutmeg,  economical   use 

of,  403. 


0. 

Oatmeal  puddings,  262. 
Obser^'ations   on   cleaning 
and  dressing  fish, 
155. 
pies.  237. 
vegetables,  212. 
Old  English  plum  puddin 

263. 
Olives  of  beef",  67. 

veal,  90. 
Omelets  and  eggs,  282 


452 


INDEX. 


Omelet,  283.                        Oyster  aauce,  203. 

a  la  celertine,  283. 

for  beefsteaks,  202. 

a  la  creme,  284. 

for  entries,  200.; 

a  la  gendanne,  284. 

8callope«1,  175. 

au  nature],  284. 

soup,  53.      .'^^ 

fritters.  284, 

■tewed,  175. 

glacee,  284. 

onion,  284,  285. 

of  eggB,  for  gamiahing, 

P. 

284. 

pan,  xix. 

Pain  de  veau,  91.  * 

plain,  sweet,  286. 

Palates  of  beef,  72. 

Savov,  285. 

Palestine  soup,  55. 

souffle,  285,  286. 

Pancakes,  278. 

in  a  mould,  285. 

a  la  Fran9ai8e,  278. 

stuffed,  285. 

a  ritalienne,  278. 

Onions,  omelet,  284,  285. 

cream,  278. 

pickled,  355. 

rice,  278. 

pickle,  to,  354. 

Parfait  amour,  3.Q0. 

Parmesan         cheese, 

coffee,  376. 

with,  295. 

Parisian  souffle  of  straw- 

sauce, 202. 

berries,  347. 

sauce,  brown,  202. 

Parisienne,  custard   a  la. 

soup,  58. 

302. 

Orange  biscuits,  362. 

Parmesan    cheese      with 

cheesecakes,  364. 

onions,  295. 

custards,  303. 

fritters,  280. 

fritters,  280. 

Parsley,  sauce,  203. 

gravv,  202. 

Parsnip  wine,  284. 

in  jelly,  344. 

Partridge.^,  145. 

jelly,  317. 

boUed,  145. 

lemons,  or  to  keep  for 

broiled,  145. 

puddings,  344. 

pie,  247. 

marmalade,  321. 

pottetl,  235. 

peel,  to  preserve,  344. 

stewed,  145. 

preserve,  to,  344. 

soup,  48. 

with      marmalade. 

Paste,  238. 

borders,  239. 

pudding,  262. 

cheese,  295. 

bauce,  201. 

dumpling,  267. 

bitter,  202. 

Genoese,^  239. 

soufnd,  2«7. 

gum,  239. 

tarts.  270. 

gum  dragon,  239. 

water  ice,  311. 

puff,  238. 

wine,  384. 

raised  crust,  238. 

Orangeade,  300. 

second   course  paste. 

Ortolan,  143. 

239. 

to  roast,  151. 

stewed  l>eef,  or  soup?, 

Englisli,  151. 

paste  for,  272. 

Oven  and  hot  closet,  xxiii. 

sweet,  or  biscuit  cnist, 

Oxford  range,  xxiiu 

240. 

Ox-tail  soup,  38. 

cutter,  xxi. 

another  muv,  oQ, 

Pastry,  237. 

tails.  76. 

dish  of  French,  276. 

haricot  of,  76. 

fancy,  240. 

cheek,  stew,  78. 

sandwich,  240, 

Oysters,  174, 

Pasty,  272. 

a  rimperiale,  175. 

'lamb,  272. 

fritters,  175,280. 

mutton,  like  venison, 

patties,  273. 

272. 

pie,  175. 

Patties,  fish,  273. 

roast,  175. 

marrow,  273. 

Patties,  meat,  273. 

oyster,  273. 
Pavements,    mixture    lor 

cleaning,  405. 
Pears,  baked,  344. 

Jargonelle,  345. 

tart,  270. 

to  keep,  345. 
Peas,  a  la  Fran^aise,  224 

green,  223. 
soup,  59. 
dried,  soup,  59. 

pudding,  262. 

stewed,  224. 
in  cream,  225. 

soup,  58. 

another  way,  58. 

soup,  clear,  59. 
Pepper-pot,  59, 
Perch,  162. 
Perigord  pie,  258. 
Pheasants,  144. 

boiled,  144. 
Philosophy  of  cookery,  1. 
Pickle,  apple  cod  lings,  34^^ 

for  beef,  69. 

for  gherkins,  339. 

for  tongues,  .**»56. 

green  almond,  349. 

purple,  351. 
Pickled  artichokes,  350. 

asparagus,  350. 

cabbage,  350. 
purple,  351. 
red,  351. 
white,  351. 

celery,  251. 

cucumbers  and  onions.. 
351. 

elder  buds,  352. 

French  beans,  350. 

gherkins,  352. 

grapes,  352. 

herrings,  353. 

India,  353. 

lemon,  342. 

mushrooms,  354. 
white,  354. 

nasturtiums,  354.* 

neat's  tongue,  354. 
Pickled  onions,  354,  35^ 

plums  like  olives, 3-3* 

quince,  355. 

samphire,  355. 

tongue,  356. 

walnuts,  356,  357- 

y  oungcucumber8,35  J  • 
Pickles,  349. 
Pickling,  rules  of,  349. 

green  fruit,  349, 
Pies,  240. 

apricot,  240. 


INDEX. 


453 


Pies,  beef-steak,  240,  241. 
pies    raised    with 
truffles,  241. 
calfs  head,  241. 
chicken,  241. 
cold  meat,  or  chicken, 
241. 
savoury   jelly  for, 

317. 
duck,  242. 
eel,  242. 
eggs,  242. 

mince,  242. 
fish,  243. 
fhiit,    to    neutralize 

acids  in,  272. 
game,  243. 
giblet,  243. 
gooseberry,  243. 
green  goose,  244. 
hare,  244. 
heron,  244. 
lamb,  244,  245. 
lark   a   la   Pithiviers 
244. 
raised,  24.5. 
lemon,  niiucc,  '?.Ao. 
mince  meat,  245. 
pie8,  without  meat, 
247. 
mutton,  247. 

m^Ie  raised,  247. 
partridge    or  pigeon, 
247. 
simple,  247. 
perigord,  248. 
pigeon,  248. 

hot,  raised,  An^lo- 
Fran9aise,  24.0. 
Mongljis,  249. 
a   la    financierc, 

250. 
Russian,  250. 
to  be  served   hot, 
250. 
pork,  250. 
to  eat  cold,  251. 
raised,  251. 
pheasant  pie,  hor, 251. 
rabbit,  252. 
nuipe,  252. 
sole,  252. 
squab,  253. 
Staffordshire     goose, 
252. 
•  tench,  253. 
veal  or  chicken  and 
parsley,  253. 
olite,  253. 
in  a  dish,  254. 
Pig  collared,  120. 

sucking,  to  roast,  1 13. 


Pig's  fecc,  116. 

feet,  121. 

head,  collared,  120. 
Pigeons,  138. 

aspic  jelly,  140. 

broiled,  138. 

compote  of,  1 39. 

chesnut  stuffing    for, 
140. 

fillets  of,  139. 

in  jelly,  139. 

larded,  139. 

pie,  248. 

pot  to,  140,  235. 

roasted,  138. 

soup,  48. 

stewed,  138. 

as  woodcocks,  138. 

wood,  140. 
Pike,  1 76. 

baked,  I'JC). 

boiled,  17^». 

to  choose,  176. 
Pine  apple  cre:«m,  306. 

ice,  309. 
Pint  mould  of  orange  jelly, 

318. 
Plaice,  177. 
Plain  custard,  302. 
Plovers*  eggs,  •JJJ2. 
Plum  buns,  :;70. 
Plums,  candied,  345. 

preserved  dry,  345. 

to  pitklo  like  olives, 
355. 
Plum  pudding,  262,  203, 
2(;4. 

French,  dreadful  turn 
out,  435. 

sauce,  263. 
Pork,  113. 

boiled,  of  all   kinds, 
116. 

cheeks,  110. 

cheese,  295. 
Italian,  296. 

chine  of,  115,  116. 

chops,  116. 

cochon    de    lait,  en 
blampiette,  121. 

cutlets,  116. 

face     for    breakfast, 
116. 

feet  dried,  121. 
stewed,  121. 

fillet  to  resemble  veal, 
115. 

fresh  sauce,  197. 

grihkin  of,  122. 

hams,  122. 

harslet,  121. 

head,  liaked,  120. 


Pork,  head,  boiled,  120. 

to  collar,  120. 
lard,  to  melt,  122. 
leg  of,  boiled,  1 14. 

roasted,  114. 
loin  of,  115. 
neck  of,  rolled,  115. 
pettitoes,  120. 
pickled,  116. 
pies,  250,  251. 
pudding,  blnck,  121. 

white,  121, 

black    and    white, 

lOO 

I  Ma.. 

roasted,  of  all  kinds, 

116. 
sausages,  117,  118. 
another  way,  119. 
different  way,  119. 
ul'Espagnole,  110. 
aux       chataigno, 

119. 
spiced,  119. 
university   receipt, 

118. 
white,  119. 
spare  rib  of,  115. 

to  roast,  1 1 5. 
sucking  pig  to  roast, 
113. 
pig  to  roast,  114. 
to  scald,  114. 
tongues,  123. 
Portable  soup,  41. 

white,  41. 
Porter,  395. 
Potage  u  la  rcine,  51. 
Potato  steamer  and  cover, 

XV. 

Potatoes,  a  la  maitre  dTid- 
tel,  225. 

u  la  creme,  226. 

balls,  227. 

broiled,  226. 

fried,  226. 

glazed,  226. 

mash,  227. 

new,  to  boil,  22". 

pudding,  264. 

pur^e  of,  227. 

ragout,  226. 

rissoles,  226. 

roasted,  225. 

souffle,  226. 

soup,  60. 
Potted  cheese,  291. 

meats,  233. 

beef,  83,  233. 

bird,  234. 

char,  234. 

cheese,  234. 

cliicken  and  ham,  234 • 


464 


IKI>£X. 


Potted  game  of  all  kindi,  1  Poultrj,  pigeons,  stewed. 


234. 
hare,  148. 
lobsters,  234. 
partridge,  235. 
pigeon,  235. 
shrimps,  235. 
smelts,  235. 
yenl,  90,235,236. 
Tcnison,  236. 
woodcocks,  236. 
Pounded  cheese,  295. 
Poultry,  128. 
blanc,  136. 
bone  birds,  129. 
chickens  boiled,  136. 
braised,  137. 
cunied,  137. 
to  choose,  31. 
cutlets  of,  137. 
fried  k  la  Malabar, 

137. 
pulled,  137. 
chopper,  xix. 
ducks,  to  boil,  132. 
to  hash,  132. 
roast,  131. 
stew,  132. 
stewed,  132. 
wUd,  183. 
fowls  a  la.  bechamel, 
135. 
a    la    proven9al, 

135. 
boiled.  133. 
broiled,  134. 
cold,  133. 
fricassee  of,  1 33. 
gravy  for,  136. 
Guinea,      roasted, 

136. 
grill,  cold,  134. 
hashed,  134. 
roast,  133. 
^-ith  truffles,  134. 
goose,  a  green,  131. 
to  roast,  131. 
young  or  old,  131. 
Indian  pilau,  136. 
larks,  1 10. 

to  roast,  141. 
pigeons,      in      aspic 
jellv,  140. 
broUed,  138. 
chcsnut  stuffing  for, 

140. 
compdte  of,  139. 
iiUets  of,  139. 
in  jelly,  139. 
larded  and  braised, 

139. 
roasted,  138. 


138. 
to  pot,  140. 
soups  of,  46. 
turkey  alaroyale,138. 
boiled,  129. 
broiled,  130. 
forced,  130. 

with  tongue,  130. 
giblets  a  la  bour- 

geoise,  131 
hashed,  130. 
roast,  129. 
with  sausage  meat 
and  tongue,  1 30. 
Pound  cake,  366. 

plum,  or  plain,  366. 
Prawns,  176. 
to  boil,  177. 
to  serve,  177. 
Preface,  v. 

Prefatory  remarks,  ix. 
Preserves,  fruits,  334. 
barberries  in  bunches, 
332. 
'^[    biscuit    of  fruits    or 
sweetmeats,  332. 
currants,  335. 
dry,  335 
for  tarts,  335. 
garden  beans,  332. 
gherkins,  wet,  339. 
ginger,  338. 
gooseberries,  339. 
green  fruits,  338. 

lemons,  342. 
liquid  citron,  336. 
quinces,  346. 
raspberries,  346. 
rhubarb,  347. 
sjimphire,  347. 
white  citron,  336. 
Puddings,  254. 
almond,  254. 
amber,  254. 
apricot,  *J55. 
barley,  255. 
batter,  250. 
beefsteak,  255. 
black,  121. 
biscuit,  255. 
brandy  256. 
bread,  256. 
and  butter,  256. 
brown,  256. 
cabinet,  256,  267. 
carrot,  259. 
cherry,  258,  259. 
citron,  258. 
curd,  259. 
currant,  258. 
custard,  257. 


Pudding,  damson,  259. 
Derbyshire,  264. 
fowl  a  la  reine,  259. 
fruits    to    neutialize 

acids  in,  272. 
game,  264. 
gooseberry,  259. 
ice,  260. 

different,  200. 
lemon,  261. 
with     marmalade, 
260. 
in  haste,  264. 
lemon,  261. 
macaroni,  261. 
marrow,  261. 
baked,  261. 
millet,  260. 
muffin,     with     dried 

cherries,  261. 
mutton,  262. 
catmeal,  262. 
orange,  262. 
peas,  262. 
plum,  262,264. 
first-rate,  262. 
old  English  Christ- 
mas,  262. 
potato,  264. 
quaking,  264, 
quinc^  264. 
rice,  boiled,  265. 
ground,  265. 
with  currants,  265. 
fruit,  265. 
ssgo,  265. 
sippet,  265. 
suet,  265,  266. 
sweetmeat,  266. 
tapioca,  26(). 
treacle,  266. 
vermicelli,  "266, 
white  puddings.  127. 

and  black,  122 
Yorkshire,  266. 
Puffs,  274. 

apricot,  274. 
Cliinese,  275. 
curd,  275. 
of  chee&e,  295. 
of  any  kind,  274. 
Puits  d'ariKHir,  274. 
Punch,  390. 
milk,  390. 

rum  milk   for  turtle 
soup,  390. 
Pur^e  presser,  xxii. 
Purees,  203. 

cucumber  sauce,  203* 
of  onions,  203. 
Purity  of  water,  11. 
Purl,  399. 


455   '^ 


Quaking  padding^  260. 
Quenelles,  54. 

soups  of  all  kinds,  54. 
Quince  cakes,  367. 

marmalade,  322. 

pudding,  264. 

tart,  270. 

to  pickle,  355. 
Quinces,  345. 

preserTed,  346. 

to  keep,  346. 


Rabbits,  152. 

a  la  Fran^aiae,  153. 
boiled,  152. 
dressed,  153. 
fricassee,  153. 
fried,  153. 
pie,  252. 
roasted,  152. 
with  onions,  153. 
Baised  crust  for  pies,  238. 
pie  hot,  Anglo- Fran- 

9aise,  249. 
a  la  Monglas,  249. 
a  la  finaiiciere,  250. 
ph«aiant,25I. 
Russian,  250. 
served  hot,  250. 
pie,  251. 
Baisiii  wine,  384. 
Eamequins,  300. 
Ranges,  stoves,  hot  water 
apparatus.  Sec, 
xxii.,  xxvi. 
Range,  close,  ice,  xxir. 
fiunily  (Bcnham's  im- 
proved), xxiiL 
Oxford,  xxiii. 
Raspberries,  pre8enred,34  6. 

to  keep,  346. 
Raspberry  cidces,  367. 
dumpling,  268. 
jam,  322. 
jelly,  318. 
marmalade,  322. 
tart,  270. 
with  cream,  270. 
conant  cream,  306. 
Tin^gar  syrup,  318. 
wine,  385. 
Ratafia,  without  sugar  or 

syrup,  318. 
Ratafias,  369. 

of  four  fruits,  391. 
of  seeds,  391. 
Red  apple?,  in  jelly,  313. 


Red  jcurrant  water  ice,  31 1 . 
Refrigerator,  x?L 
Requisite  information  for 
making  and  bak- 
ing cakes,  358. 
Remove  dishes,  409. 
Removes,  fish,  156. 
Remouladc,  203. 
Rhenish  cream,  306. 
Red  hippocras,  386. 
Revolving  gridiron,  xx. 
Rhubarb,  preserve,  347. 

tart.  271. 
Rice,  apples  in,  277. 
blancmange,  322. 
cakes,  367. 
casseroles  of^  277* 
cheese,  296. 
croquettes  Of^  276. 
custard-H  without 

cream,  303. 
gateau  of,  275. 
milk,  406. 
ptmcakes,  278. 
pound  cakes,  367. 
pudding,  265. 

with  currants,  265. 
with  fruit,  265. 
soup,  6U. 
Rissoles,  104. 

of  all  kinds,  210. 
Roast  beef,  65. 
fillet,  66. 
beefsteak,  71. 

heart,  74. 
cold,  to  fricassee,  77. 
Roasted  cheese  for  after 

ilinner,  296. 
Robert  sauce,  203,  205. 
Ro;nion  de  mouton,  105. 
Rose  jelly,  318. 
Rout  cakes,  367. 
Roux,  204. 

white,  204. 
Royale  fritters,  281. 
Royal  harts,  260. 

kitchen    at   Windsor 
Castle,  with  illus- 
tration, 434. 
Ruffs  and  reeves,  151. 
Rules   to  be  observed   in 

pickling,  349. 
Rum  jelly,  319. 

milk  punch  for  turtle 
soup,  390. 
Rump  steaks, plain  broiled, 
70. 
stewed,  70. 

S. 

Sack,  mend,  339. 


Saddle  of  mutton  kkemetf 

xix. 
Sago,  406. 

cheese,  297. 
chicken,  188. 
pudding,  265. 
soup,  39. 
Sahid,  232. 

Parisian,  231. 
Sydney   Smith's    re- 
ceipt, 231. 
Salads,  fish,  188. 
gherkins,  339. 
Italian,  189. 
lobster,  189. 

in  an  Italian,  189. 
same,  204. 
Salmon,  177. 
boil,  179. 
bruil,  180. 
dried,  180.     ' 
collared,  179. 
crimpe<l,  a  la  crenic, 

178. 
dressed,  177. 
dry,  to,  178. 
en  papillotes,  180. 
pickle,  to,  17^. 
pot,  to,  1 79. 
pudding,  181. 
quenelles,  180. 
roasted,  180. 
stewed,  180. 
Salamander,  xxi. 
Salsify,  228. 

Samphire,  to  dry  or  pre- 
serve, 347. 
to  pickle,  355. 
Sandwich  pastry,  240. 
Saucepan  digester,  xv. 
with     loose     earthen 
linini;,  xvii. 
lip^xvii. 
Sauce,  1J)2. 

anchovy,  192. 

au  bcurc,  192. 
apple,  192. 
au  bain  marie,  193. 
Ix'chamel,  192. 

another  way,  1 93. 
bread,  193. 
brown,  193. 
butter,  burnt,  193. 

for,  193. 
calves*    brains,    with 
different  sauce:», 
195. 
caper,  a  la  Fran;'ai;fe, 

194. 
for  fish,  194. 

meat,  194. 
to  inv.tnto,  19-1. 


456 


IKDEX* 


Sauce,  carp,  19.5. 
celeiy,  195. 
chervil,  195. 
cod,  195. 

court  bouillon,  196. 
cream,  196. 
cucumber,  196. 

for  cutlets,  196. 
diable,  194. 
Dutch.  197* 
eel,  197. 
egg,  197. 
endive,  197. 
fennel,  197. 
fresh  pork,  197. 
garlic,  19B. 
gooseberry,  198, 
gronde,  194. 
hum,  198. 
herbs,  198. 
horse  mdish,  198. 

cold,  199. 
Italian,  199. 
lamb,  199. 
liver,  199. 

for  boiled  chickens, 

199. 
and  parsley,  200. 
lintels,  '200. 
lobster,  200. 

another  receipt,200. 
maitre  d'hutel,  200. 
mint,  200. 
musliroom,  201. 
a  rEsjj.mnoIe,  201. 
-white,  201. 

and  browTi,  201. 
mustard,  201. 
onion,  202. 

brown,  202. 
omn^e,  201. 
bitter,  202. 
gravy,  202. 
oyster,  202. 
'  for  beefsteaks,  203. 
parsley,  203. 
pur^e   of    cucumber, 
203. 
onions,  203. 
remoulnde,  203. 
Robert,  203. 
roux,  204. 

white,  204. 
salad,  204. 
Sauces,     a    TAllemande, 
204. 
a  la  Madelaine,  204. 
nux  atclcts,  204. 
Harvey,  206. 
Italian,  '205. 
Italijnne,  207. 
mince,  205. 


Sauces,  piquante,  205. 
Robert,  205. 
Romaine,  205, 
Spanish,  206. 
supreme,  206. 
sweet,  207. 
unirersal,  207* 
white,  207. 
fish,  208. 
shrimp,  208. 
sorrel,  206. 
souffle.  206. 
spinach,  206. 
superior     for     plum 

pudding,  206. 
tomato,  207. 

aritalienne,208. 
a  la  Franfaise,  208. 
garniture  of,  208. 
tarragon,  206,  207. 
truffle,  209. 
turnip,  209. 
venison,  209. 
walnut   ketchup    for 

fish,  209. 
wine,  Madeira,  209. 
Sauer    kraut    and    beef, 
70. 
another  way,  78. 
Saundcr*B  beef,  78. 
Sausages    a    TEspagnole, 
118. 
aux  chataignes,  119. 
beef,  81. 
pork,  117. 
spiced,  119. 
university  receipt  for, 

lie. 

white,  119. 
Savoy  biscuits,  362. 

cake,  368. 

omelet,  285. 
Scales,  xvii. 
Scorzancra,  228. 
Scotch  dumpling,  267. 

eggs,  283. 

rabbits     of     toasted 
cheese,  298. 

short  bread,  371. 
Sea  kale,  227. 

stewed,  227. 
Seasoning  box,  xx. 
Seed  buns,  370. 
Seeds,  ratafia  of,  391. 
Seville  oranges,    to    pre- 
serve, 344. 
Sheep's  head  broth,  45. 
Shell  fish,  to  choose,  32. 
Sherbet,  391. 
Shrimps,  105. 

toast  croute  aux  crc- 
velles,  18r). 


Shrimpi^  i  laieiiie  Aaclk^ 
185. 
potted,  2S5. 
sauce,  208. 
Short    crust,  not    sweet, 

358,359. 
Shrub,  391. 
Siberian  crabs,  to  preaerre, 

347. 
Silk    stcckings  to  deaa, 

402. 
Silk,  to  take  stains  out  d, 
406. 
grease     spots    from, 
406. 
Simple  omelet,  286. 

receipt  for  black  tops, 
333. 
Single  Gloucester  cheese, 

290. 
Sippet  pudding,  265. 
Skate,  183. 

crimped,  183. 
Smelts,  185. 

to  bake,  185. 
potted,  235. 
Smoke-jacks,      improred, 

xxiiL 
Snipes,  152. 

pie,  252. 
Soles,  181. 

a  la  Portuguese,  182. 
all  plat,  1 82. 
broiled,  181. 
bread,  crumbed,  181. 
fillctsof,  in  aiipic,  183. 
fried,     to     go  round 

other  fish,  183. 
for  a  pie,  182. 
maitre  d'hotel,  183. 
pie,  252. 
Sorrel  sauce,  236. 
Soufflejs  286. 

apple,  with  rice  286. 
cheese,  296. 
custard,  286.* 
fritters,  281. 
omelet,  285.  206. 
in  mould,  285. 
orange,  286. 
potato,  226. 
sauce,  206. 
Soups  a  la  Creci,  56. 
a  la  Fran9aise,  40. 
a  ritalienne,  57. 
a  lareine  Victoria,  43. 
a  la  sap,  40. 
Soup,  artichoke,  (Pales- 
tine) 55. 
asparagus,  55. 

clear,  55. 
baked,  39. 


IKDEX. 


ur 


Qoupy  beef  brothy  45. 

(leg  of)  broth,  45. 

gravy,  37. 
clear,  37. 
aoup,  37. 
bonilb',  39. 
broth,  barley,  (Scot.) 
46. 

chicken,  4G. 

fish,  54. 

mutton,  45. 

sheep's  head,  45. 

veal,  45. 
brown  stock  for,  35. 

fish,  51. 
cabbage,  56. 
calves*     foot,    a    la 
tureen,  44. 

tail,  44. 
carrot,  56. 
celery,  57. 
cheap,  40. 

and  good,  40. 
cheese,  297. 
cock-a-leekie,  40. 
consomme,  41. 
Cray  fish,  52. 

reci,a(>. 
curry,  39. 
do  THsperge,  55. 
eel,  52. 

Espagnole,  43. 
fish,  51. 

niagnifique,  G4. 
flavoured  like  turtle, 

51. 
giblec,  46. 
haddock,  52. 
hare,  47. 
herb,  57. 
Hessian,  40. 
hotch-potch,  57. 
Italienne,  (veal)  42. 

(vegetable)  57. 
Julienne,  58. 
lamb,  45. 
lamb's  tail,  44. 
leek  (Scotch),  58. 
lobster,  53. 

pur6e  of,  53. 
Lorraine,  47. 
macaroni,  39. 
maire,  60. 
milk,  54. 
muUigatawney,  43. 

Indian  method,  4  3. 
musself  53. 
mutton,  44. 
onion,  58. 

Spanis*.,  58. 
oxtail,  38. 
oyster,  53^ 


Soup,  partridge,  48. 
paste,  for,  272. 
pea,  58. 

clear,  59. ,] 

green,  59. 

dried,  59.^ 
pepper  pot,  59. 
pigeon,  48. 
portable,  41. 

white,  41. 
potage  a  la  reine,  51 . 
potato,  60. 
quenelle,  of  all  kinds, 

73. 
rice,  60. 
sage,  39. 
saut^,  60. 
skate,  54. 
sorrel,  61. 
spring,  60,  6 1  • 
tomato,  ()1. 
transparent,  42. 
turnip,  61. 

purde  of,  61. 
turtle,     killed      and 
dressed,  49. 

mock,  50. 
vegetable,  54. 
veloutd,  48. 
vermicelli,  42. 
white,  36. 
white  stock  for,  36. 
Sparc  rib  of  pork,  115. 
Spanish  fritters,  281. 

onions,  to  dress,  288. 
Spiced  ale,  399. 
beef,  69. 

macaroons,  366. 
Spinach,  228. 

a  TAnglaise,  228. 

another  way,  228. 

a  la  Fran9aise,  22.]. 

ragout,  229. 

sauce,  206. 
Sponge  cake,  367. 

to  clean,  402. 
Spring   water   ewer  with 

ice  tub,  xviii. 
Steaks,  beef,  71. 

mutton,  99. 

rump,  70. 
Steam  kettles,  xxv. 
Stewed  cheese,  297. 
Stewpan,  xviii. 
Sticking  knife,  xix. 
Stilton  cheese,  289,  297. 
Stock-pot  and  ladle,  xvi. 
Stock,  brown  soup,  35. 

white  soup,  36. 

white  or  brown  fish 
soup,  51. 
Stout,  brown,  896. 


Stoves,  xxii. 

stewing,  xxiii. 

cottage,  xxv. 
Strawberry,  conserve,  348. 

cream,  305,  306. 

ice,  305. 

jam,  347. 

tart,  271. 
Strawberries,         Parisian 
souffle,  347, 

preserved     in    wine, 
347. 

whole,to  preserve,348* 
Stuffed  omelet,  285. 
Sturgeon,  bak^,  184. 

boiled,  181. 

broiled,  184. 

fillets  of,  184. 

maitre  d'hdtel,  185. 

roasted,  184. 

stewed,  184. 
Suet  dumplings,  268. 

pudding,  265,  266. 
Sugar  canister,  xiv. 

coloured     for     orna- 
menting, 327. 

different    degrees   of 
preparing,  325. 

green  coloured,  327. 

Ncige,  a  la,  327. 

paste,  328. 

to  boil   for  baskets, 
320. 

to  clarify,  326. 

or  syrup  ratafia  with- 
out, 391. 
Sweetbreads,  lamb,  110. 
Sweetmeat  pudding,  266. 
Sweetmeats,    yellow    al- 
monds, 271. 
Syrup  of  capillaire,  387. 

raspberry       vinegar, 
318. 


T. 

Table  knives,  remarks  on, 

32. 
Tapioca  pudding,  266. 
Tarragon,  sauce,  206,  207. 
Tarts,  268. 

almonds  green,  269. 

apple,  268. 

apricot,  268. 

sweetmeat  for,  269. 

bean,  269. 

cherry,  269. 

chocolate,  269. 

currant,  269. 

damson,  269. 

gooseberry,  269. 


458 


IHDEX. 


Tarts,  grape,  269. 

miKed  jam  for,  275. 

iceing  for,  369. 

orange,  269. 

pear,  269. 

quince,  269. 

raspberry,  264. 
with  cream,  269. 

rhubarb,  270. 

strawbeny,  270. 

fruits,  to  preaerre  for, 
358. 
Tartlets,  268,  271, 

barberries,  for,  332. 

mixed  jam,  ior,  275. 

pan,  xix« 
Tea,  372. 

cream,  377. 

creme  du  th6,  377. 

ice,  377. 
Teal,  132. 

Tendons  of  veal,  89. 
Tench,  162. 

pie,.  253. 
The  cellar,  397. 
Timbale  of  eggs,  283. 

macaroni,  299. 
Tin  canister,  xiv. 
To  give  a  Vanilla  fiaTour 

to  coffee,  875. 
To  roast  cofiee,  378. 
Toasts  of  cheese,  291. 
Toasted  cheese,  297. 
Toasting    cheese    froma- 

gere,  for,  298. 
To  bake  apples  whole,  330. 
To  boil  sugar  for  baskets, 

&o.  326. 
To  candy  fruit,  328. 

barberries,  332, 

cherries,  334. 
To  clarify  butter,  288. 

sugar,  326. 
To  cut  out  patty  cases,  271. 
To  drv  apricots  in  halves, 

329. 
To  dry  cherries,  334. 
To  keep  cherries,  334. 

codlia  apples,  330. 

cream,  306. 

damsons,  337. 

gooseberries,  340. 

jelly,  316. 

lemon  juice,  342. 
for  puddings,  343. 

orangesorlemons,343. 

for  puddings,  344. 

necutrines,  343. 

pears,    345. 

quince,  346. 

raspl>erries,  346. 
To  make  capillaire,  387. 


To    make  Chili,  or  any 
other      vin^ar, 
357. 
wafers,  868. 
Tomatos,  garniture  of,  207. 
ketchup,  855. 
sauce,  207. 

Fran^aiae,  208. 
a  ritalienne,  208. 
soup,  61. 
Tongues,  beef,  to  cure,  79. 
to  dren,  80. 
larded,  80. 
stewed,  80. 
])ickle,  for,  356. 
pork,  123. 
sheep,  106. 
to  pickle,  356. 
To  neutralize acidsin  fhiits, 
pies,    and    pud- 
dings, 272. 
To  prepare  ice  for  iceing, 

301. 
To  preserve  apricots,  328, 
329. 
green,  828. 
apple  pippins  in  slices, 

330. 
apples,   golden    pip- 
pin, 330. 
apples,    green    cod- 
lings, 331. 
artichokesywhole,  83 1. 
the    Spanish   way, 

331. 
bullaces,  333. 
cheese,  296. 
cherries,      dry,       in 

bunches,  334. 
damsons,  337. 
figs,  3;i7. 

ripe,  337. 
fruits  for  tarts,  338. 
family  dessert,  338. 
green  fruit,  338. 
green  grapes,  340. 
in  clusters,  340. 
necUirines,  343. 
oranges,  343. 
in  jellv,  344. 
peel,  344. 
Seville,  whole,  344. 
pears,  345. 
plums,  dry,  345. 
quinces,  346. 
raspberries,  346. 
Siberian  crabs,  347- 
8tmwl)erries      whole, 
348. 
Transparent     marmalade, 
319. 
soup,  42. 


Treacle  puddn^  9€6. 
Trifle,  307. 

apple,  307. 
Tripe.  82. 
Truffles,  280. 

en  surprise,  280. 

to  keep,  28a 

tourte  of,  230. 

with  champagne,  230. 
Trout,  185. 

truite  e  la  Generdie, 
186. 

a  la  princeMe  roysle, 
186. 

sauce,  209. 

stewed,  186. 
Trussing  needle,  zrui. 
Turbot,  186. 

a  la  roi,  187. 

fillets  o^  187. 

kettle,  xvii* 
Turkey,  129. 

hashed,  130. 

with    sausage    meat, 
130. 

carpets,  to  clean,  402. 
Turnips,  229. 

puree  of,  230. 

sauce,  209. 

soup,  61. 
pur^  o^  61. 
Turtle,  49. 

killed    and    dxeved, 
49. 

mock,  (receipts),  50. 
Twelfth  cake,  368. 


V. 

Vanilla,  cream  o^  305. 
ice,  310. 

cream,  o^  392. 
Veal.  84. 

blan(|uctte  de    veau, 

<)•■) 

breast  of,  boiled,  05. 
forced,  85. 
Ttij^out,  85.* 
stewed,  84. 
broth,  45. 
ciilfs  brains,  96. 
ears,  94. 
stuffed,  94. 
another  way,  93. 
feet,  95. 

fricasseed,  95. 
stewed,  95. 
head,5-  ,93. 
a      la       maitre 

d'hotel,  93. 
a  la  tortue,  94. 


INDEX. 


459 


V«al,  calfs  head,  bakad^ 
93. 
for  grill,  92. 
hashed,  94. 
pie,  241. 

heart,  96. 

kidney,  96, 

liver,  96, 

liver  and  lights,  96. 
chops,  larded,  89. 
coUops,  88. 

another  way,  89. 
catlets,  88. 

another  waj,  88. 

a  In  Maintenon,89. 

crumbed  or  plain, 
88. 

curried,  88. 
carried,  92. 
^minc^es,  9 1 . 
fillet  of  roasted,  84. 

boiled,  84. 
fricandeau,  92. 
galantine  of,  90. 
gravy,  38. 
grenadins  of,  91. 

do.  from  neck,  91. 
haricoed,  90. 
knuckle  of, boiled, 86. 

another  way,  87. 

stewed,  87* 

another  receipt,  87. 
loin  of,  86. 

boiled,  86. 

stewed,  86. 
neck  of,  87. 

braised,  88. 

stewed,  87. 
noix  de  veau,  91. 
olives  of,  roti,  90. 
pain  dc  veau,  91 . 
pie,  cold,  241. 

chicken  and  pars- 
Icy.  253. 

in  a  dish,  2,54. 

olives,  253. 
potted,  90,  235,  236. 
shoulder  of,  85. 

h  la  Piedmontese, 
86. 

boned  and  stewed, 
85. 
tendons  of,  09. 
Vegetables,  212. 
angelica,  215. 
artichokes,  215. 

Ik  la  St.  Cloud,  215. 

bottoms,  215,  2! G. 

frir»d,216. 

Jerusalem,  215. 

leaf,  215. 

salads,  216. 


yegetablet,Bsparagui,  213. 
asperge  &  la  poiiy 

214. 
en  croustade,  213. 
forced,  214. 
Italian       faihion, 
214. 
beans,  218. 
beans,  French,  216. 
ik  laBretonne,217. 
Ik  hiFran9ai8e,217. 
h  la  maltre  d'bdtel, 

217. 
en  allumette,  21 7* 
fiicasB^ed,  217. 
garden,      preserved, 

218. 
haricot,  218. 
lklaFran9aiie,219. 
roots,  219. 
white,  219. 
Spanish  receipt, 
219. 
to  keep,  216,  217. 
pur^  of  white,  218. 
salad  of,  218. 
stewed,  218. 
Windsor,  218. 
beetroot^  219. 
broccoli,  220. 
and  buttered  eggs, 

MMV. 

cabbages,  220. 

and  bacon,  221. 

boiled,  220. 

boiled  and  stewed, 
220. 

game  for,  221. 

keep,  to,  220.' 

ragoiit,  221. 

red,  221.  ! 

red,  to  stew,  221. 

salad,  221. 
cardoons,  222. 
cauliflowers,  222. 

h  la  Frun^aise,  222. 

au  fironmge,  222. 

boil,  to,  222. 

chartreuHc  of,  222. 
celery,  stewed,  223. 
chiU"trcuse    of    vege- 
tables, 213. 
cucumbers,     stewed, 

endives,  223. 

au  jus,  223. 
lettuces,  229. 
morels,  231. 

in  gnvy,  231. 

to  keep,  231. 
mush  rooms  h  TElspag- 
nole,broiled,229. 


Vegetables,      mashroom 
ketchup,  354 
pickled,  354. 
white,  354. 
sauce,  brown,  201. 
white,  201. 
observations  on,  212. 
peas,  223. 
2i  la  Fran9aise,224. 
green,  223. 
soup,  59. 
dried,  soup,  59, 
pudding,  262. 
stewed,  224. 

in  cream,  225. 
soup,  58. 

another  way,  58« 
soup,  clear,  59. 
potatoes,  225. 
41ama2tred'hdtel, 

225. 
h  la  crdme,  226. 
balls,  227. 
broiled.  226. 
fried,  226. 
glazed,  226. 
mash,  227. 
new,  to  boil,  225. 
pudding,  264. 
pur^  off  227. 
ragoiit,  226. 
rissoles,  226. 
roasted,  225. 
soufH^,  226. 
soup,  60. 
salsify,  228. 
scorzaiiera,  228. 
sea  kale,  227. 

stewed,  227. 
soup,  54. 

Spanish  onions,  223. 
spinach,  228. 

Jl  TAnglaise,  228. 

another  way,  228. 
?i  la  Franyjiise,  228. 
ragoat,  22'). 
truffles,  230. 
en  surprise,  230. 
to  keep,  230. 
tourte  of,  230. 
with     champaigne, 
230. 
turnips,  pur«5o  of,  230. 

whole,  229. 
salads,  232. 
Parisian,  231. 
Sidney  Smith's  re- 
ceipt, 231. 
Vegetable  strainer,  xxi. 
Velout^,  48. 
Venison,  142. 

dress,  to,  142. 


/ 


460 


INDEX. 


Venison,  hash,  to,  142. 

neck  of,  143. 

nauce,  209. 

shoulder  of,  stewed, 
143. 

potted,  285. 
Vermicelli,  266. 

pudding,  266. 

soup,  42. 
Vespetro,  392. 
Vinegar,    various    kinds, 
357. 


w. 

Wafers,  almond,  275. 

to  make,  368. 

tongs,  xiii. 
Walnut  ketchup,  209. 

for  fish  sauce,  356. 

pickle,  357. 

pickled,  356. 

wine,  385. 
Wassail  bowl  in  Glouces- 
tershire, 400. 
Wasser  kirschen,  388. 
Water  casks,  to  clean,  402. 

filter,  xiii. 

hot,  dish,  xiii. 

ices  generallj,  311. 

souchy,  187. 


Wanning  pot,  xyiil. 
Welsh  rabbit  of  toasted 
cheese,  298. 

another  waj,  298. 
Wheateavs,  141. 
White  bait,  188. 

caudle,  387. 

currant    water     ice, 
811. 

hippocras,  388. 

sauce  for  fish,  208. 

stock  for  soup,  36 . 
Whitings,  188. 

curry  of,  188.) 

fillets  of,  188. 

puddings,  188. 

quenelles  of,  188. 
Whole  blacktops,  332. 
Wholesome  beTemge,392. 
Wines,  home  made,  378. 

apricot,  379. 

balm,  379. 

barley,  379. 

bireh,  379. 

blackberry,  380. 

cherry,  380. 

chocolate,  380. 

claret,  artificial,  380. 

clary,  380. 

cowslip,  381. 

currant,  381. 

red  or  white,  381. 


WiBCi^  home  made.  Cy- 
press, to  imitate;, 
382. 

damson,  382. 

elder^  882. 

elder,  882. 

elder  flower  winci,  882. 

ginger,  383. 

gooseberry,  363. 

grape,  383. 

mountain,  384. 

mulberry,  384. 

orange,  384. 

parsnip,  384. 

raisin,  384. 

raspbeny,  885. 

walnut,  385. 
Wine  cooler,  xviii. 
Winter,  to  preeerre  bolter 

for,  288. 
Wood  block,  or  stand,  for 
pestle  and  mor- 
tar, xiii. 
Woodcocks,  152. 

potted,  236. 

Y. 

Yellow    almond     sweet- 
meats, 27 1. 
Yorkshire  cakes,  868. 

pudding,  266. 

pttdding-px-m,  xix. 


fist  rf  Slterateit  Wmk 


PUBLISHED  AT  227,  STEAKD. 

0 

MATZOSrAI.  ZIJ.USTRATED  UEBRARY. 

IN   MONTHLY  VOLUMES, 

CoKTAi5i5G  320  Pages  and  60   Engravings, 
Price  28.  6d.  crown  Svo,  handsomely  bonnd  in  dothi  top  edges  gilt 


WORKS  ALREADY  PUBLISHED. 

1  to  4.  Boswell's  Life  of  Dr.  Johnson. 

Complete  in  four  volumes,  with  numerous  Portraits,  Views,  and  Character- 
istic Designs,  Engraved  £rom  Authentic  Sources.  Handsomely  bound,  4 
vols,  in  2,  calf  half-extra,  marbled  edges,  18s.  ^ 

5.  The  Book  of  English  Songs, 

From  the  Sixteenth  to  the  Nineteenth  Century.  With  fifty  Engravings 
from  Original  Designs. 

6.  The  Mormons,  or  Latter-Day  Saints. 

An  Account  of  the  Rise  and  Progress  of  this  new  Religious  Sect.  Illustrated 
with  forty  Engravings  from  original  sources; 

7.  The  Orbs  of  Heaven ; 

Or  the  Planetary  and  Stellar  Worlds.  A  popular  Exposition  of  the  great 
Discoveries  and  Theories  of  Modem  Astronomy.  Illustrated  with  Nebulae, 
Portraits,  Views,  Diagrams,  &c. 

8.  Pictures  of  Travels  in  the  South  of  France. 

From  the  French  of  Alexander  Dumas.  With  fifty  spirited  Engravings  on 
Wood.     Unabridged  Edition. 

9  &  10.  Hue's  Travels  in  Tartary,  Thibet,  and  China, 

In  1844,  5,  &  6.  2  vols.  Translated  by  W.  Hazlitt.  With  numerous 
Daguerreotyped  Illustrations,  and  a  Map  of  the  Countries  traversed. 

11.  A  Woman's  Journey  round  the  World. 

From  the  German  of  Madame  Pfeiifer.  In  one  volume.  Unabridged 
Edition.     With  full-sized  Page-Engravings,  printed  in  two  tints. 

12  ft  13.  Memoirs  of  Extraordinary  Popular  Delusions. 

By  Charies  Mackay,  LL.D.  Illustrated  from  Scarce  Prints  and  other 
authentic  sources. 

14.  Boswell's  Journal  of  a  Tour  to  the  Hebrides. 

Companion  vol.  to  **  Bosweirs  Life  of  Johnson.''  By  Robert  Carruthcrs, 
Esq.,  of  Inverness. 


VOLUMES  IN  PREPARATION. 

Narrative  of  a  Eesidence  at  the  Capital  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Siam. 

With  a  Description  of  the  Manners  and  Customs  of  the  Modern  Siamese. 
By  Fred.  Arthur  Neale,  formerly  in  the  Siamese  Service,  Author  of  "  Eight 
Years  in  Syria,*'  &c.     [Will  be  ready  in  May.] 

The  Book  of  Scottish  Songs,  Ancient  and  Modem. 
Visit  to  Iceland  and  the  Scandinavian  North. 

By  Madame  Ida  Pfeiffer.    &c,  &c.,  &c. 


Iltettateif  ^jimStrim  l^ibrarg. 


On  April  1,  was  published^  in  demy  ^vo,,  402  pages^  236  Ungracifigi, 

price  6*., 

Nineveh  and  its  Palaces. 

The  DiscoTeries  of  Botta  and  Layard  applied  to  the  elucidation  of  Holy  WoL 
By  Joseph  Bonomi,  F.R.S.L. 


"  For  the  atone  MhaU  cry  out  of  the  wall,  and  the  beam  out  of  the  timber  ahall  aiMrwer  iV 

Hub.  li.  II 

This  Work  forms  tho  first  volume  of 

THE  ILLirSTEATED  LONDON  LIBRAET. 

Each  volume  will  contain  upwards  of  400  pages,  full-aized  demy  octvro, 
printed  on  superior  paper,  and  in  a  new  and  elegant  type.  The  Landscape 
Illustrations  will  invariably  be  derived  either  from  Original  Sketches^  or  from 
other  authentic  sources ;  the  Portrait  Illustratioits  will  be  as  accunte  sad 
faithful  as  it  is  possible  to  make  them,  while  the  Architectural  and  ARhoo- 
logical  subjects  will  in  all  cases  be  entrusted  to  the  most  competent  Artiirb 
and  Engruvers.  Each  volume  will  be  handsomely  and  substantiallj  \ianai, 
and  will  form  an  elegant  ornament  to  the  Drawing-room  Table,  as  well  ss  s 
uscfiil  addition  to  the  shelves  of  the  Book-case.  Tho  Series  will  inclode 
Works  of  History,  Biography,  and  Travels,  ezhibitiag  the  geoeml  progica  tf 
Art,  Science,  and  Literature ;  and  will  in  all  respects  be  as  varied  in  ths 
subjects  selected,  as  the  intellect  and  the  wants  of  the  present  time  demand. 


VOLUlViES  IN  PRBPAEATION. 

English  Forests  and  Forest  Trees. 

13y  W.  E.  Hall,  Esq.  Being  an  account,  Legendary,  Historical,  and  Descrip- 
tive, of  the  Forests  and  Trees  of  England ;  and  the  Associations  and  Events 
connected  with  them.  This  volume  will  be  profusely  Illustrated.  [Will  be 
ready  in  May.] 

Lares  and  Penates;  or,  Cilicia  and  its  Governors. 

]king  a  short  Historical  account  of  that  Province,  from  the  Earliest  Times  to 
the  Present  Day.  Together  with  a  description  of  some  Household  Godn  of 
the  Ancient  Cilicians,  broken  u])  by  them  on  their  Conver«ion  to  Christianity, 
and  first  discovered  and  brought  to  this  country  by  the  Author,  William 
Burckhardt  Barker,  M.R.A.S.,  many  years  resident  at  Tarsus  in  an  officisl 
capacity.  Edited  by  William  Francis  Air.sworth,  F.R.G.S.,  F.G.S.,  Corre- 
sponding Meml)er  of  the  Geographical  Society  of  Paris,  of  the  Oriental  Society 
of  Gemiany,  &c.;  Honorary  Secretary  of  the  Syro-Egyptian  Society. 

The  Three  Colonies  of  Australia :  their  Gold  Fields,  Pastures,  and 
Copper  Mines. 

By  Samuel  Sidney,  Author  of  the  "  Australian  Iland-Book,"  **  Emigrant'* 
Jvuirnal,"  <S:c.,  &:c.;  with  numerous  Engravings  from  authentic  sources. 

The  OLtoman  Empire  under  Abdul  Medjid. 

JJy  I),  Uniuhart,  Esq.,  M.P. 


\ 


%U  nf  ^IttistrrrfA  Wi^xh 


PUBLISHED  AT  227,  STEAND. 

— ♦ — 

RECENTLY  PUBLISHED.' 

lie  Political  Writings  of  Prince  Louis  Napoleon  Bonaparte, 

With  an  Original  Memoir  of  bis  Life,  brought  down  to  the  present  date, 
drawn  from  Authentic  Sources,  Critical  Notes,  &c.  2  vols  8vo.,  cloth,  gilt, 
price  One  Guinea,  with  Portrait. 

These  volumes  possess  great  interest.  Among  the  most  important  works  of 
the  Prince  which  they  comprise  are  his  "  Political  Reveries,"  with  the  Scheme 
of  a  Constitution,  published  in  \U3'2;  ''Ideas  of  Napolconism ;"  "On  the 
Extinction  of  Pauperism ;"  «  Historical  Parallels  between  1 688  and  1830/*  &c. 

■he  Life  of  General  Washington, 

First  President  of  the  United  States :  written  by  Himself.  Compriiung  his 
Memoirs  and  Correspondence,  as  prepared  by  him  for  publication ;  including 
several  original  Letters  now  first  printed.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  C.  W.  Uphnm. 
2  vols  po»t  8vo.,  steel  Engravings  (Portraits  of  Washington  and  Franklin, 
with  Vignette  Battle-pieces.)  Cloth,  gilt,  7s.  The  same,  elegantly  bound  in 
calf,  half-extni,  price  1 48.     Second  Edition. 

Ady  Felicia, 

A  New  Novel.  By  Henry  Cockton,  Author  of  "Valentino  Vox,"  "Syl- 
vester Sound/'  &c.,  &c.     Bound  in  blue  and  silver  doth,  price  5s. 

lie  Pathway  of  the  Fawn, 

A  Tnle  from  the  German.  With  highly-finished  Elngravings,  and  elegantly 
bound  in  cloth,  price  5s. 

ferns  of  Wood  Engraving. 

Imperial  folio,  enamelled  boards,  price  21  f. 

"he  Hand-Book  to  the  Pianoforte. 

New  Edition,  demy  4 to,  cloth,  price  6s. 

i  Story  with  a  Vengeance, 

Or,  How  many  Joints  go  to  a  Tale.  By  Angus  Reach  and  Shirley  Brooks, 
with  a  Frontispiece  by  Leech,  and  Eight  Engravings  by  Smyth,  price  Is.,  or 
bound  in  cloth,  Is.  6d. 

POPULAR  EDUCATIONAL  WORKS. 

nie  Illustrated  London  Spelling-Book. 

l*20th  Thousand,  price  Is;  or  Coloured,4price  2s, 

Jhe  Illustrated  London  Reading-Book. 

3l8t  Thousand,  price  28. 

the  Illustrated  London  Instructor. 

21st  Thousand,  price  *Js. 

Fhe  Illustrated  New  Testament. 

(Authorised  Voriion).     Ju-*:  ready,  prica  5i.,  a  new  and  most  clepant  olilion. 

IX  THE  PRESS, 
In  imlisprnsaUe  Work  for  Vhc  Sctmol,  the  (*oilfffe,  the  Library y  and  for  Gensral 

Reference, 

7 ebster*s  Dictionaiy  of  the  English  Language. 

In  I  vol.,  royalJh'o.,  extra  cloth,  Vl()'^  pages,  price  1  Gs.,  strongly  bound  in 
Russia,  marbled  edges,  £I  4s.  Kxhibiling  the  Origin,  Orthography,  Pro- 
nunciation, and  IK'finition  of  W«»nls;  comprising  also  a  Synopsis  of  Words 
differently  pronounced  by  different  Orthoepists;  and  Walker's  Key  to  the 
Classical  Pronunciation  of  Greek,  Latin,  and  Scripture  Proper  Names. 
A  New  Edition,  Revised  and  Enlarged,  by  C.  A.  Gomlrich,  Profeawr  in  Yale 
College;  with  the  addition  of  a  Vocabulary  of  Modem  Geographical  Names 
and  their  Pronunciation. 


/ 


<.  tf-v-  -^* 


x^ii^\.^^ 


/^^C^t^l  J^    r9^C\  Jij^  yXtCi^JLJ^ 


aX 


EBBATA. 

Page    ly  line  19,  for  Samoiede*,  read  Samoied, 
10,  line  2  from  bottom,  for  for  read  Me. 

13,  last  line,  for  Urqttart  read  Urquhart, 

14,  line  3,  for  health  is,— for ,  read  Aea//A — is  for ^ 
28,  line  1,  for  unite  read  tint<e#. 
16,  line  12  from  bottom,  ioi  follows  resid  follow, 
49,  line  20,  fur  peal  read  peel. 
64,  line  25,  for  it  read  Mey. 

127,  line  5  from  bottom,  for  brick  read  loaf. 

148,  No.  468,  for  Liveret  read  Leveret, 

155,  line  5  from  bottom,  for  it  read  //lem. 

189/ last  line,  for  a  read  one, 

208,  No.  758,  for  TVimafo  read  Tomato, 

216,  for  585  read  785. 

221,  for  119  read  819. 

232,  for  Head  of  a  Gigantic  Prize  Cucumber  read  Head  of  a  Ci^.-anti:  Aspi 

rag  us, 
289,  line  4  from  bottom,  for  they  are  read  it  is. 
358,  title  of  chapter,  for  Blcuils  read  Biscuits. 
372,  line  3,  for  prefnratory  read  prefatory. 
378,  line  8  from  bottom,  for  sulpher  read  sulphur. 
401,  last  line,  for  tchere  read  were. 
410,  line  12,  second  column,  for  sweatbreads  read  sweetbreads. 


\b 


*-j 


J.  H ADDON,   PRINTER,  CASTLE   STRKKT,   riN»liURY. 


w 


