rt 


M 


^^  (g  00  (0,7 (if 


"^ 


^ 


y^ublic    Library 

nls  book  or  mark  it  wit' 
or   so    doing    are    impos 
e  Commonwealth  of  M^ 


issued  to   the  horrotuer 


r  X 


THE 


INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK: 

A 

lijjttllral  landk0h  k  Ik  %lkh\x  in  Jndm» 

ADAPTED  TO  THE  THREE  PRESIDENCIES  3 

CONTAINING 

ORiaiNAL  AND  APPROVED  RECIPES  IN  EVERY  DEPARTMENT 
OF  INDIAN  COOKERY  ; 

RECIPES  FOR  SUMMER  BEVERAGES  AND  HOME-MADE   LIQUEURS  ; 

MEDICINAL  AND  OTHER  RECIPES  ; 

TOGETHER  WITH  A  VARIETY  OF  THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING. 

BY 

A  THIRTY-FIVE  YEARS'  RESIDENT. 


CALCUTTA: 


Bombay  :  THACKER  &  CO.,  Ld.     Madras  :  HIGGINBOTHAM  &  CO, 

1880.  . 


/3  i  ^ 


■<<y^ 


CONTENTS. 


♦ 

Page 

Observations  on  the  Kitchen  and  its  Requirements l 

Rice  or  Chowl 9 

Pellow  or  Pooloo  12 

Curries 14 

BuRTAS  OR  Mashes 33 

Soups 35 

Pish    38 

Joints,  Made  Dishes,  etc 40 

Vegetables 52 

Pastry,  Puddings,  Sweetmeats,  etc 67 

Garnishes,  Sauces,  Stuffings,  etc 74 

Indian  Pickles,  Chutnees,  Sauces,  etc 82 

Indian  Preserves,  Jams,  Jellies,  and  Marmalades  89 

Home-made  Liqueurs 97 

Medicinal  and  other  Recipes 102 

Perfumery,  Cosmetics,  and  Dentifrice  109 

Miscellaneous  useful  Recipes 113 

Things  Worth  Knowing  116 

Index 117 


INTEODIICTION. 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  THE  KITCHEN  AND  ITS 
EEQTJIREMENTS. 

THE  kitchen  should  be  roomy,  light,  and  airy,  with  contrivances,  in 
the  shape  of  shelves  and  other  conveniences,  for  laying  out  in 
order  all  utensils  and  other  necessaries  inseparable  from  the  kitchen. 

The  oven  and  all  the  fireplaces  should  be  constructed  of  tire-bricks, 
and  not  of  the  ordinary  clay -bricks  so  generally  used  in  Indian  kitchens, 
requiring  constant  repairs,  to  the  great  annoyance  of  the  cook  and 
hindrance  to  his  work. 

A  good  supply  of  reservoirs  or  large  earthen  jars  {jallahs)  for  fresh 
water  is  essential.  Of  these  there  should  be  two  at  least,  both  to 
contain  equally  good  clean  water,  but  yet  to  be  applied  to  two  widely 
different  purposes, — the  one  for  washing,  and  the  other  exclusively  for 
cooking  the  victuals.  Those  who  can  afford  the  expense  ought  to  have  a 
reservoir  on  the  terrace  of  the  kitchen,  and  the  water  brought  down  by 
means  of  a  pipe,  with  cock  attached ;  which  would  effectually  prevent 
dirty  and  greasy  hands  being  put  into  the  reservoirs. 

The  drainage  should  be  well  constructed,  with  a  sufficient  incline  to 
carry  away  easily  all  washings  and  offal ;  and  the  doors  and  windows 
provided  with  finely-made  bamboo  chicks,  to  keep  out  the  flies,  which  at 
some  seasons  are  more  troublesome  than  at  others. 

Great  cleanliness  is  necessary  throughout  the  kitchen :  the  flooring  as 
well  as  the  ceiling,  the  walls,  and  every  nook  and  corner,  ought  to  be 
kept  constantly  in  familiar  acquaintance  with  the  whisk,  and  the  knight 
of  the  broom  called  in  occasionally  to  aid  the  cook  in  the  work  of 
a  thorough  turn-over.  There  are  very  many  kitchens  in  India  the 
ceilings  of  which  are  cleaned  only  once  in  three  years,  when  the  triennial 
repairs  to  the  premises  oblige  it  to  be  done. 

The  very  best  recipes,  however,  for  ensuring  a  perfectly  clean  kitchen, 
well-tinned  utensils,  and  fresh  water,  are  the  frequent  visits  of  the  lord 
and  lady  of  the  mansion  to  the  cook.  On  these  occasions  expressions 
of  satisfaction  should  never  be  withheld,  if  deserved,  at  the  mode  of 
cooking  or  serving  up ;  where  not  merited,  the  one  or  more  instances 
should  be  particularized,  and  such  modification  as  may  appear  necessary 
be  gradually  suggested.  Attention  should  next  be  directed  to  the 
order  and  cleanliness  of  the  kitchen,  &c. :  let  there  be  no  sparing  of 
praise,  if  well  deserved,— -such  treatment  is  encouraging;  and  then,  if 


INTRODUeTION. 


need  be,  anything  disorderly  or  unclean  can  be  pointed  out  more  as  a 
passing  remark  than  as  one  of  complaint  or  censure. 


UTENSILS,  ETC. 

The  following  implements  are  necessary  in  every  kitchen ;  and  in 
describing  them,  care  has  been  taken  to  use  terms  generally^  under- 
stood by  the  native  cooks,  servants,  and  bazaar  shopkeepers,  in  order 
that  young  housekeepers  may  the  more  easily  comprehend  the  require- 
ments of  the  cook,  and  provide  them  accordingly  : — 


One  curry-stone  and  muUer. 

An  iron  fish-kettle  or  ham-boiler,  without 

the  aid  of  which  large  joints,  such  as 

briskets  and  rounds,  cannot  be  boiled. 
An  iron  enamelled  digester,  with  patent 

top,  for  soups  and  boiling  small  joints. 

Sec. 
A  set  of  four   copper   stewpans,   with 

covers. 
Two  large  iron  kettles  for  boiling  water 

in,  with  cocks  to  draw  off. 
Two  small  ones  for  ditto,  withojt  cocks. 
A  copper  one  for  serving  up  hot  water  at 

the  table. 
A  set  of  three  copper  fryingpans  of  sizes. 
One  pancake  ditto. 

A  good  gridiron,  with  wells  and  drains. 
One    cocoanut    scraper,    or    narial-ka- 

khoornee. 
Two    iron  spits,    or  seiks,  for  roasting 

meats,  &c. 
An  iron  pestle  and  mortar. 
A  brass  ditto. 
A  marble  ditto. 
An  iron  stove,  or  ungattee. 
Half  a  dozen  iron  wire  dish-covers. 
A  good  English  chopper. 
A  khoralee,  or  an  axe  for  cutting  wood. 
A  butcher's  knife. 
Two  cook-room  knives. 
Half  a  dozen  common  steel  forks. 
Haifa  dozen  metal  spoons. 
Half  a  dozen  small  plated  skewers  for 

curry. 
A  dozen  wooden  spoons. 


Two  dal  churns,  or  ghootnees, 

Haifa  dozen  palm-leaf  fans. 

Two  common  baskets  and  two  brooms. 

Four  phooknees,  or  blow-pip-es, 

A  couple  of  common  reed  mats. 

A  fire-poker,  pincers,  and  shovel. 

Three  copper  degchees,  for  boiling  milk, 
rice,  custard,  &c. 

One  iron  preserving-pan. 

One  copper  ditto. 

KMlf  a  dozen  perforated  bowls  or  colan- 
ders of  sizes. 

Half  a  dozen  copper-plated  pie  and  pud- 
ding dishes  of  sizes. 

Half  a  dozen  jelly-moulds  of  sizes. 

Pepper,  salt,  cayenne,  and  flour  dredging 
castors. 

One  dozen  patty-pans. 

Larding  pins  of  sizes. 

Nutmeg,  bread,  and  vegetable  graters, 
coffee-mill  and  coffee-roaster. 

Perforated  ladles  of  sorts. 

A  salting-tub,  of  wliich  there  are  two 
kinds— one  made  of  staves  and  iron 
hooped,  and  the  other  scooped  out  of 
one  block  of  wood. 

A  large  square  board  of  fine  or  close 
grained  wood,  for  rolling  pastry,  and 
two  rolling-pins. 

A  kitchen  table,  and  a  couple  of  wooden 
stools  for  sitting  at  the  table. 

A  set  of  scales  and  weights. 

A  meat-safe. 

An  almirah,  or  cupboard  to  lock  up  small 
articles. 


A  good  supply  of  enamelled  plates,  soup-plates,  and  bowls  for  kitchen  purposes,  as  a 
preventive  against  the  necessity  of  using  portions  of  dinner,  breakfast,  and  tea  services 
of  china  and  porcelain.  Tf  enamelled  articles  are  not  procurable,  the  commonest 
descriptions  of  Spode's  or  Queen's  ware  will  do,  as  well  as  the  most  expensive  wares. 

The  cook  should  be  kept  well  supplied  vrith  dusters,  of  the  commonest 
kind,  for  cleaning  and  wiping  pots  and  pans,  and  two  dozens  of  a  better, 
yet  coarse  description,  for  straining  soups,  gravy,  &c. 

There  ought  always  to  be  a  supply  of  twine  for  tying  up  roast  meats, 
&c. 

A  quarterly  reckoning  should  be  taken  of  all  the  kitchen  property  in 
charge  of  the  cook  ;  this  is  more  particularly  necessary  in  houses 
where  there  are  frequent  changes  of  cooks  and  servants. 

Finally,  one  other  suggestion  is  of  no  little  importance,  viz.,  cats, 
dogs,  and  sweepers,  as  a  rule,  have  no  business  in  the  kitchen.    The 


W^ 


fW 


INTRODUCTION.  3 

swseper,  or,  as  he  is  elsewhere  called,  the  "knight  of  the  hroom/' 
should  onlv  be  admitted  either  before  the  operations  of  the  day  have 
commencea,  or  after  their  final  termination.  Ninety -nine  sweepers  out 
of  a  hundred  know  that  intrusions  in  the  kitchen  are  against  all  esta- 
blished rule  throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of  India ;  and  yet,  if  the 
master  or  mistress  be  indifferent,  not  only  the  knight,  but  his  lady  also 
will  indulge  their  fingers  in  many  a  savoury  pie.  It  is  no  uncommon 
thing  to  find  them  constantly  in  kitchens  of  houses  of  gentlemen  ignorant 
of  the  rule,  peeling^  potatoes, ^  shelling  peas,  and  performing  other 
offices  for  the  cook,  in  expectation  of  some  return  for  such  assistance  or 
service  rendered. 

Tinning  of  Coppeb,  Utensils.— Copper  utensils  are  at  all  times 
preferable,  but  the  greatest  possible  care  must  be  observed  in  seeing 
that  they  be  perfectly  and  thoroughly  tinned  every  fortnight  or  three 
weeks,  or  at  least  once  every  month. 

EuEL. — Coal  should  be  used  for  all  purposes  of  cooking,  excepting 
only  for  boiling  large  and  heavy  joints  of  meat,  requiring  many  hours  of  a 
steady  flaming  fire. 

Cooks.— Never  quarrel  with  a  good  cook  if  his  only  fault  be  that  of 
eating  from  your  kitchen ;  all  cooks  will  do  so,  and  a  good  one  will  eat 
no  more  than  a  bad  one. 


COINAGE  AND  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 

Fob,  aU  practical  purposes  of  this  work  it  is  not  necessary  to  enter  into 
any  lengthened  tables  of  the  Indian  weights  and  measures  in  general 
daily  use  in  sale  and  delivery  of  commodities.  Nor  is  it  necessary  to  do 
more  than  to  state  in  a  few  words  the  different  coins  current  in  the  Indian 
markets. 

COINAGE. 

Although  the  introduction  of  the  half-pice,  a  small  copper  coin,  has 
partially  superseded  the  use  of  shells  called  cowries,  yet  they  are  in  daily 
use,  for  the  payment  of  fractional  parts  of  a  pice,  not  only  by  poor 
natives,  but  also  by  servants  on  belialf  of  their  masters,  dwelling  in 
princely  mansions  in  the  city  and  town  of  Calcutta.  It  is  not  unusual  to 
see  on  tables  groaning  with  viands  the  inost  costly  a  few  unpretending 
fresh  green  chilies  in  a  small  glass  urn  with  water,  particularly  on  break- 
fast tables,  the  actual  cost  of  which  never  exceeded  one  gunda  or  four 
cowries. 

The  Indian  money  table  is  computed  thus  : — 


4  cowries  make  1  grimda. 

5  gundas  make  1  pice. 
4  pice  make  l  anna. 

2  annas  are  the  eighth  of  a  rupee. 


4  annas  are  the  quarter  of  a  rupee 
8  annas  are  the  half  of  a  rupee. 
16  armas  make  one  rupee. 


The  copper  coins  are  of  three  degrees—the  half-pice,  the  pice,  and  the 
double-pice. 

There  are  four  degrees  of  silver  coin,  the  two-anna  piece,  the  four-anna 
piece,  the  eight-anna  piece,  and  the  rupee. 

B  2 


4  INTRODUCTION. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  remark  on  the  gold  coin;  but  some  valuable  sn??- 
gestion3  may  be  offered  in  dealing  with  Governme  at  of  India  notes  in  the 
Calcutta  bazaars.  The  shopkeepers  and  poddars,  as  a  rule,  require  a 
signature  endorsed  on  the  note  before  accepting  it  in  payment  of  an 
account,  or  exchanging  it  for  silver.  This  should  be  resisted  in  every 
instance  ;  but  if  from  any  cause  you  are  obliged  to  comply  with  the  only 
condition  on  wliich  the  note  will  be  accepted,  never  omit  to  insert,  under 
the  name,  distinctly  in  ink,  the  date  of  endorsement :  by  the  observance 
of  this  simple  precaution,  you  prevent  the  possibility  of  the  annoyance  of 
being  unnecessarily  subjected  to  examination  and  inquiry  in  the  event  of 
the  note  being  stolen  subsequently  to  your  having  parted  with  it* 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 

Bazaar  Weights ,  Dry  Measure. 


S  sicca  weight 

16  chittacks    , 

5  seers    , 

40  seers  or  8  pusserees. 


make 


{\ 


chittack. 
seer. 

pusseree, 
maund. 


Bazaar  Weights ^  Liquid  Measure. 

b  sicca  weight "^  f  1  chittack. 

4  chittacks    . .  , I  I    1  pow. 

4  pows   )•  make  ^    l  seer. 

5  seers    I  |    1  pusseree. 

40  seers  or  8  pusserees   J  L  l  maiind. 

The  following  are  the  different  weights  made  use  of  in  Bengal,  with 
their  value  in  sicca  weights  : — 


)  sicca  weight "^ 


84 


84     ,,  „        

95     „  

72  sicca  weight,  11  annas,  2  puns, 
10  gundas,  cow.7d  dec , 


1  Calcutta  bazaar  seer. 

1  Serampore  seer. 
I  I    1  Hooghly  seer. 

I  I    1  Benares  seer. 

y  make  -^    i  Lucknow  seer. 

1  Mirzapore  seer. 

1  Allahabad  seer. 


t.  1  Calcutta  factory  seer. 


Grain  Measure. 


5  chittacks  =  1  coonkee. 

4  coonkees  or  20  chittacks  =  1  raik  or 

ii  seer. 
4  raiks  cr  5  seers  =  i  pally  or  pusseree. 


8  pallies  =  1  maund. 
20  pallies  =  1  soally  or  2h  maunds. 
l6  soallies  =  1  khahoon  or  40  maunds. 


British  Indian  Weights. 

EnglxSh  Troy  Weights. 

lb.              02. 

dwt. 

grs. 

One  maund  makes 

One  seer            ,,       

100 

2 

0 
6 
1 

9 
0 
17 

7 

0 
0 
12 
12 

15 
1,875 

One  chittack     , 

One  tola             „       

One  masha        ,,       

One  ruttee        „ 

INTRODUCTIO:^.  S 

The  articles  of  rice,  sugar,  ghee,  curry  condiments,  poultry,  salt,  and 
other  non-perishable  articles  are  procurable  all  the  year  round,  and  may 
be  purchased  at  all  times  of  the  day  or  night ;  but  it  is  not  so  with  meat, 
fish,  and  game,  or  with  fruit  and  veo^etables  ;  there  are  seasons  for  these, 
and  when  in  season,  if  not  procured  betimes  in  the  morning,  the  chances 
are  ten  to  one  that  all  the  arrangements  for  that  day's  meals  will  be  sadly 
disorganized.  Another  inconvenience  is  experienced  by  some  families 
ordering  a  particular  description  of  fish  or  vegetable  which  is  really 
not  in  season.  The  order  is  frequently  misunderstood  by  the  servant, 
who  procures  an  article  widely  different  from  that  ordered,  or  he  returns 
empty-handed,  with  the  declaration  of  the  truth,  ^' Piah  neigh"  or 
** MillaJi  neigh"  which  means,  " Could  not  get,"  or  " Could  not ^ find.'* 
In  order,  therefore,  to  obviate  these  disappointments  and  inconveniences, 
it  is  deemed  desirable  to  give  a  list  of  such  articles  of  consumption  as 
are  procurable  monthly  in  the  Calcutta  daily  markets  before  proceeding 
further  with  other  matters. 


KITCHEN  CALENDAR 

The  following  is  a  list  of  such  articles  of  consumption  as  are  procurable 
monthly  in  the  Calcutta  daily  bazaar  :— 

JAKUAEY. 

Green  peas,  cauliflowers,  cabbages,  turnips,  yams,  potatoes,  carrots, 
spinach,  greens,  cucumbers,  radishes,  cellery,  lettuces,  young  onions, 
knol-khole,  kochoo,  French  beans,  seam,  brinjals,  red  and  white  beet,  &c., 
are  in  perfection  and  plentiful. 

Beef,  mutton,  veal,  lamb,  pork,  kid,  poultry,  &c.,  are  also  plentiful  and 
of  the  first  quality. 

Game  in  great  abundance — snipe,  duck,  teal,  &c. 

The  fish  market  is  well  found  with  beckty,  moonjee,  rowe,  cutlah, 
quoye,  sowle,  selliah,  bhola,  eels,  banspattah,  &c. 

The  fruits  in  season  are  Sylhet  oranges,  loquats,  plantains,  pine-apples, 
sugai'-canes,  country  almonds,  limes,  and  tipparee. 

FEBRUAEY. 

The  fish  market  this  month  has  the  addition  of  the  small  hilsa.  Meat 
and  vegetables  continue  good  and  abundant. 

The  additional  vegetables  are  asparagus,  pumpkins,  and  young  cucum- 
bers ;  and  custard-apples,  mulberries,  bail,  and  small  water-melons  are 
added  to  the  fruit. 

MABCH. 

The  meat  market  contmues  good  to  about  the  end  of  this  monlli. 

Fish  in  abundance,  with  the  addition  of  the  goonteah,  a  small  and 
well-flavoured  fish. 

Green  peas  and  turnips  disappear ;  salad,  cabbage,  carrots,  and  celery 
are  on  the  decline ;  but  asparagus  and  potatoes  continue  excellent ;  green 
mangoes  and  unripe  footee  are  to  be  had,  also  amrah,  greens,  water- 
cresses,  and  the  kerrella. 


6  INTRODUCTION. 

Fruit  is  also  plentiful ;  large  water-melons  appear  during  the  month, 
ftud  continue  in  perfection  for  two  or  three  months. 

APRIL. 

This  is  an  unfavourable  month  for  meat,  which  begins  to  be  flabby  and 
poor,  fat,  spongy,  and  yellow ;  indeed,  very  little  good  of  any  description 
IS  to  be  found  in  the  market. 

The  fish  market  has  the  addition  of  carp,  the  mhagoor,  and  the  mangoe- 
fish,  so  called  from  its  annual  visit  to  all  the  Bengal  rivers  at  this  season 
to  spawn.  Tliis  latter  fish  appears  as  soon  as  the  mangoe  is  formed  on 
ihe  tree,  and  disappears  at  the  close  of  the  season — that  is,  about  the 
middle  of  July.  It  has,  perhaps,  the  iriost  agreeable  flavour  of  any  in 
the  known  world,  and  is  so  sought  after  (by  natives  as  well  as  Europeans) 
that,  although  not  so  large  as  a  middle-sized  whiting,  it  is  sold  at  the 
beginning  of  the  mouth  at  from  four  to  eight  per  rupee.  Before  the  end 
of  May,  as  it  becomes  plentiful,  the  price  is  one  rupee  the  score ;  and  in 
June  from  two  to  three  scores  are  sold  for  one  rupee. 

Potatoes,  asparagus,  onions,  cucumbers,  and  a  few  cabbage-sprouts 
are  the  only  vegetables  procurable. 

Water-melons  and  musk-melons  are  in  perfection ;  green  mangoes  for 
pickling,  and  caraunda  for  tarts,  are  in  great  abundance. 

MAY. 

Grapes  of  the  largest  size,  peaches,  pine-apples,  limes,  rose-apples, 
lichees,  jumrules,  and  wampees,  together  with  water-melons,  musk- 
melons,  pomegranates,  and  custard-apples,  come  in  during  this  month. 

The  meat  market  is  very  inferior  to  that  of  last  month. 

Fish  continues  good  and  abundant,  the  beckty  excepted,  which 
becomes  scarce.    Mangoe-fish  are  in  great  perfection  this  month. 

Asparagus,  potatoes,  and  cabbage-sprouts,  with  indifferent  turnips, 
eweet  potatoes,  cucumbers,  and  onions,  are  nearly  all  the  vegetables  now 
in  the  market ;  pumpkins  and  other  cucurbitaceous  roots  are,  however, 
procurable. 

JUNE. 

Meat,  as  must  be  expected,  is  very  indifferent  this  month. 

The  fish  market  is  much  the  same  as  that  of  last  month. 

Mangoes  and  mangoe-fish  are  in  great  abundance.  The  Maldah  man* 
goes  arrive  in  Calcutta,  and  are  considered  the  best  that  can  be  procured 
in  Bengal.  Grapes,  peaches,  lichees,  &c.,  disappear.  Custard-applea, 
pine-apples,  jack-fruits,  and  guavas  are  in  perfection. 

Asparagus,  potatoes,  onions,  and  Indian  com  axe  the  principal 
vegetables  that  remain. 

JULY. 

Meat  continues^  lean  and  poor. 

The  fish  market  continues  good.  The  moonjee,  the  rowe,  the  cutla, 
ihe  quoye,  the  sowle,  the  mhagoor,  the  chingree,  the  tangra,  and  the 
©hunah  are  procurable  all  the  year  round.  The  hilsa  or  sable-fish  makes 
Its  appearance  this  month :  this  fish  is  delicious,  boiled,  baked,  or 
■oersted,  but  very  unwholesome.    On  being  cured  with  tamarind  it  forms 


»';i.'-iv*' 


^;>x^'w?^^v:'^1 


\n^ 


\ 


t 


INTRODUCTION.  \ 

a  good  substitute  for  the  herring :  it  is  then  known  by  the  app|ellation  oi 

the  tamarind  fish.  ^  \ 

Mangoes  and  mangoe-fish  disappear  this  month.      ^  \ 

Pine-apples,  custard-apples,  jacks,  and  guavas  continue  in  sealson. 
The  veg:etable  market  is  very  indiiFerent :  asparagus  is  in  seaison,  but 
potatoes  become  poor  and  watery.     Young  lettuces,   cucamblprs,  and 
sweet  potatoes  are  now  procurable ;  also  cumrunga  and  caraunda; 

AUGUST.  ^ 

The  meat  and  fish  markets  look  much  the  same  as  those  of  last  month. 

Pumplenose  (shaddock)  appears  this  month ;  pine-apples,  cus^tard- 
apples,  and  guavas  continue  in  perfection. 

The  vegetables  procurable  are  salad,  asparagus,  cucumbers,  brii^ills, 
muckun-seam  (a  kind  of  French  beans),  radishes,  turnips,  cabb^age- 
sprouts,  and  some  indifferent  potatoes;  Indian  corn,  cucumbers,  Wd 
spinach  are  to  be  had  all  the  year  round,  but  are  tasteless,  except  at  t^his 
season,  when  they  become  firm,  good,  and  palatable. 

The  avigato  pear  is  sometimes  procurable  at  this  period. 

SEPTEMBER. 

The  meat  market  does  not  improve. 

The  fish  market  experiences  but  slight  improvement ;  for  although^ 
there  is  abundance,  yet  it  is  not  always  firm  and  good,  except  the  beckty, 
which  becomes  larger  and  better  flavoured?    The  following  are  also  in 
the  market: — The  bholia,   dessy  tangra,  gonteah,  bhengris,   gontorah, 
kwetoonte,  pyrah  chanda,  and  the  shell-fish  (bagda  chingree). 

Vegetables  are  very  indifi:erent ;  yams  come  into  season  about  this  time. 

In  the  fruit  market  small  oranges  make  their  appearance ;  custard- 
apples,  pine-apples,  guavas,  and  pumplenose  continue  in  season. 

OCTOBER. 

The  meat  market  begins  to  revive,  and  the  fish  market  to  improve ;  the 
beckty  becomes  firm,  and  the  others  proportionably  good ;  snipes  make 
their  appearance. 

Vegetables  and  fruit  continue  much  the  same  as  last  month ;  but  if 
the  season  be  favourable,  both  experience  a  considerable  improvement 
about  the  end  of  the  month. 

Oranges  become  large  and  better  flavoured,  and  custard-apples  are  in 
great  perfection. 

Young  potatoes  sometimes  make  their  appearance  this  month ;  pome- 
granate^  are  procurable,  also  kutbail. 

NOVEMBER. 

The  meat  market  looks  wholesome;  beef,  mutton,  veal,  pork,  and 
poultry  become  firm  and  good. 

Game  comes  in  also  in  considerable  quantities — wild  duck  snipes, 
teal,  &c. 

Abundance  of  fish  is  procurable,  such  as  beckty,  banspattah,  gontorah, 
rnirgal,  carp,  and  mangoe-fish  without  roes. 

The  vegetable  market  begins  with  the  introduction  of  green  peas,  new 


INTRODUCTION. 


potatoes,  lettuces,    greens  of  various  kinds,  spinach,  radishes,  and 
turnips. 

In  the  fruit  market  may  be  had  oranges,  lemons,  pumplenose,  custard- 
apples,  papias,  plantains,  cocoanuts,  country  almonds,  pomegranates, 
kutbaii,  &c. 

/  DECEMBEH. 

Thejhfieat  and  fish  markets  are  in  great  perfection,  both  as  to  quantity 
and  qiiality;  game  of  all  kinds  in  abundance.  The  vegetable  market  is 
excellent,  yielding  green  peas,  young  potatoes,  lettuces,  young  onions, 
radisljes,  small  salad,  sweet  potatoes,  French  beans,  seams,  brinjals,  yams, 
carrots,  turnips,  greens,  young  cabbages,  and  cauliflowers.  The  fruit 
marldet  continues  much  the  same  as  last  month;  tipparee  or  Brazil 
currents  make  their  appearance  this  montb,  together  with  wood-applea 
and/other  fruits. 


THE 

INDIAN   COOKEEY  BOOK. 

RICE   OR  CHOWL. 

Rice  is  consumed  by  most  European  families  at  breakfast,  tiffin,  and 
dinner.  It  is  eaten  at  breakfast  with  fried  meat,  fish,  omelet,  country 
captain,  or  some  other  curried  dish,  and,  being  invariably  followed  by 
toast  and  eggs,  jams,  fruit,  &c.,  one  coonkee,  which  contains  about  as 
much  as  an  ordinary  breakfast-cup,  or  say  half  a  pound,  will  always  be 
ample  for  four  tolerably  hearty  consumers.  There  are  two  sizes  of 
coo?ikees,  large  and  small :  reference  is  here  made  to  the  small  coonkee^ 
well  filled.  The  quantity,  however,  of  raw  rice  for  a  party  of  four 
3hould  not  exceed  half  a  pound. 

The  rice  at  dinner  is  usually  preceded  by  soup,  fish,  roast,  and  made 
dishes. 

The  best  or  generally  approved  qualities  of  rice  for  table  use  are 
known  as  the  bhaktoolsee,  the  banafool,  the  bassmuttee,  and  cheenee- 
suckur.  In  purchasing  these,  or  indeed  any  other  approved  quality, 
care  must  be  taken  to  avoid  new  rice  and  what  is  called  urruah^  which 
latter  has  been  put  through  some  process  of  boiling,  or  damped,  and  then 
dried.  Both  are  considered  unwholesome  for  general  daily  consumption, 
and  few  Indians  will  use  them. 

Good  rice  when  rubbed  in  the  palm  of  the  hand,  and  cleared  of  dust, 
will  appear  of  a  bright  and  nearly  transparent  yellowish  colour ;  whereas 
the  urpmh  will  be  found  of  a  dull  whitish  hue,  and  the  grain  streaked 
and  speckled  with  white  powder,  which  crumbles  on  the  application  of  a 
needle's  point. 

The  price  of  rice,  like  other  commodities,  varies  according  to  its  plenty 
or  scarcity  in  the  market.  After  the  cyclone  of  October,  1864,  and  again 
of  November,  1867,  the  price  of  the  bhaktoolsee  and  the  banafool,  which 
are  fine,  large,  stout-grain  rice,  without  being  coarse,  ruled  at  from  eight 
to  nine  seers  per  rupee,  and  the  bassmuttee  and  the  cheeneesuckur  at 
from  seven  to  eight  seers  per  rupee.  The  rice  used  by  the  poorer  classes 
of  the  native  population  is  of  a  very  coarse  description  and  incredibly 
cheap :  within  six  weeks  after  the  cyclone  of  November,  1867,  it  was 
readily  procurable  at  twenty-five  to  thirty  seers  per  rupee. 

Rice  is  used  in  a  variety  of  forms  :  it  is  boiled,  made  into  kitcheeree, 
pellow,  puddings,  blanc  mange,  cakes,  bread,  &c. 

The  bhaktoolsee,  the  banafool,  and  other  stout-grain  rice  are  the  best 
adapted  for  boiling.    Boiled  rice  is  called  hhalh. 


10  THE  INDIAN   COOKEEY  BOOK. 

The  bassrauttee,  cheeneesuckur,  and  all  small  and  fine-grain  rice  are 
selected  for  kitcheeree,  pellow,  and  puddings  for  children's  food,  and  for 
invalids. 

The  urruah  is  used  in  some  houses  in  ignorance,  but  for  the  most  part 
it  is  made  into  flour,  and  used  for  blanc  mange,  cakes,  &c.  The  flour  is 
abundantly  procurable  in  the  Calcutta  markets,  and  is  largely  used  by 
all  native  bakers  in  the  making  of  bread. 

^  Twenty-two  to  twenty-five  seers  of  rice  monthly,  consuming  it  three 
times  a  day,  entertainments  included,  will  be  ample  for  a  party  of  four, 
allowing  occasionally  for  a  rice  pudding. 

It  is  necessary  to  wash  rice  thoroughly  in  several  waters  befoi  e  using 
it,  and  a  colander  is  very  useful  for  draining  away  the  water  after 
washing  the  rice. 

I.— Boiled  Rice. 

Wash  half  a  pound  or  a  coonkeeful  of  rice,  and  put  it  to  boil  in  a 
large  quantity  of  water,  over  a  brisk  flre.  Immediately  the  rice  begins 
to  boil,  the  water  will  bubble  up  to  the  surface  of  the  pot  and  overflow, 
carrying  away  quantities  of  scum  and  impurities.  The  cover  of  the  pot 
should  now  be  kept  partially  open,  and  the  rice  stirred  to  prevent  an  en- 
tire overflow  of  the  water.  On  the  subsiding  of  the  water  or  the 
bubbling,  the  fire  should  be  reduced,  until  it  is  satisfactorily  ascertained 
that  the  grains  of  rice,  without  being  pappy,  are  quite  soft,  when  the  pot 
should  be  removed  from  the  fire  and  a  quart  of  cold  water  be  added. 
All  the  liquid,  which  is  "conjee,"  should  then  be  drained,  and  the  pot  re- 
placed over  a  gentle  charcoal  heat,  to  allow  all  moisture  to  evaporate, 
assisting  the  process  by  occasionally  shaking  the  pot,  or  stirring 
its  contents  gently  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Time  to  boil:  half  an 
hour. 

The  coonkee  of  rice  when  properly  boiled  will  fill  a  good-sized  curry  or 
vegetable  dish.  The  rice  will  be  found  quite  soft,  and  yet  every  grain 
perfectly  separate.  Rice  should  never  be  cooked  into  a  pap,  excepting 
it  is  required  for  very  young  children ;  and  leaving  the  grains  hard  or 
uncooked  should  be  equally  avoided. 

A  small  pinch  of  pounded  alum  or  fitkerree  is  used  by  some  cooks  with 
advantage  to  improve  the  whiteness  of  boiled  rice, 

2.— Rice  Conjee. 

The  water  in  which  rice  is  boiled  should  never  be  thrown  away  :  it  is 
nutritious  and  fattening  for  all  cattle,  horses  included,  and  may  be  given 
daily  to  milch  cows  and  goats  with  great  advantage. 

3. —Rice  Kheer. 

This  is  occasionally  served  upon  the  breakfast-table  as  a  treat,  but 
few  Europeans  care  for  it.  It  is  made  as  follows : — Thoroughly  boil  one 
coonkee  or  half  a  pound  of  the  bassmuttee  or  the  cheeneesuckur  rice, 
then  drain  the  water  away,  add  two  cups  of  pure  cow's  milk,  and  put  over 
a  slow  fire.  As  the  rice  begins  to  absorb  the  milk,  two  or  three  small 
sticks  of  cinnamon  are  put  in,  with  one  tablespoonful  and  a  half  to  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  fine-quality  white  sugar.    On  the  milk  being  entirely 


THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK.  11 

absorbed,  the  klieer  is  either  turned  out  upon  a  dish  and  eaten  hot,  or 
put  into  a  buttered  mould,  served  up  in  shape,  and  eaten  cold. 

Kheer  is  sometimes  cooked  or  boiled  in  milk  only,  but  the  foregoing 
recipe  is  supposed  to  be  that  more  generally  approved. 

4— Pish-Pash. 

Pick  and  wash  in  several  waters  a  coonkee  or  half  a  pound  of  the  bass- 
muttee  or  other  iSne-graiu  rice ;  add  to  it,  cleaned  and  cut  up,  a  chicken, 
some  sliced  ginp^er,  sliced  onions,  a  few  bay-leaves,  some  peppercorns,  a 
few  hotspice,  a  dessertspoonful  of  salt,  one  chittack  or  two  ounces  of 
butter,  and  water  sufficient  to  cover  the  whole.  Simmer  over  a  slow  fire 
until  the  chicken  becomes  perfectly  tender  and  the  rice  quite  pappy. 
Serve  up  hot.  This  is  considered  a  most  excellent  and  nutritious  meal 
for  invalids. 


KITCHEEEEES. 

These  are  occasionally  substituted  for  boiled  rice  at  breakfast,  and 
are  eaten  with  fried  fish,  omelets,  croquets,  jhal  freezee,  &c.  They  are 
prepared  as  follows  : — 

5.— Bhoonee  Kitcheeree. 

Take  rather  more  than  three-quarters  of  a  coonkee  of  bassmuttee  or 
cheeneesuckur  and  half  a  coonkee  of  dal ;  or,  if  preferred,  take  the  rice 
and  dal  in  equal  parts. 

Take  twelve  large  curry  onions  and  cut  them  up  lengthways  into  fine 
slices.  Warm  up  two  chittacks  or  four  ounces  of  ghee  (but  before  doing 
so  be  careful  to  warm  the  pot),  and,  while  bubbling,  throw  in  the  sliced 
onions,  removing  them  immediately  they  become  of  a  brio:ht  brown 
colour.  Set  the  fried  onions  aside,  and  throw  in  the  dal  and  rice  (having 
previously  allowed  all  the  water  in  which  they  were  washed  to  drain 
through  a  colander).  Pry  until  the  dal  and  rice  have  absorbed  all  the 
ghee ;  then  add  a  few  slices  of  green  ginger,  some  peppercorns,  salt  to 
taste  (say  one  dessertspoonful),  a  few  cloves,  three  or  four  cardamoms, 
half  a  dozen  bay-leaves,  and  as  many  small  sticks  of,  cinnamon.  Mix 
well  together ;  add  as  much  water  only  as  will  entirely  cover  over  the 
whole  of  the  rice  and  dal,  put  a  good-fitting  cover  on,  and  set  over  a 
slow  fire,  reducing  the  same  from  time  to  time  as  the  water  is  being 
absorbed.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  allow  the  kitcheeree  to  burn, 
which  may  be  prevented  by  occasionally  shaking  the  pot,  or  stirring 
its  contents  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

Serve  up  quite  hot,  strewing  over  it  the  fried  onions,  which  serve  both 
as  a  relish  and  garnish  of  the  dish. 

6.— Bhoonee  Kitclieeree  of  the  Mussoor  or  Bed  Dal 

Is  made  according  to  recipe  No.  5. 

7.— Bhoonee  Kitcheeree  of  the  Moong  or  Small-grain 

Yellow  Dal 

Is  made  according  to  recipe  No.  5. 


19  THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK. 


8.— Bhoonee  Kitcheeree  of  the  Gram  or  Chunna  Dal. 

The  clmmia  or  gram  dal  makes  a  very  nice  kitcheeree;  but,  as  it  is 
rather  hard,  it  should  be  boiled  or  soaked  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  so 
before  frying  it  with  the  raw  rice. 

9— Bhoonee  Kitcheeree  of  Green  Peas. 

Kitcheeree  made  of  green  peas  grown  of  English  seeds  is  a  rarity. 
Large  peas  should  be  picked  out  and  shelled ;  they  should  not  be  fried 
with  the  rice,  but  added  to  it  when  nearly  cooked.  The  instructions 
given  in  recipe  No.  5  are  to  be  observed  in  all  other  respects. 

10.— Jurrud  or  Yellow-tinted  Kitcheeree. 

Jurrud  or  yellow-tinted  kitcheeree  is  nothing  more  than  one  of  the 
above  kitcheerees,  to  which  is  added,  at  the  time  of  frying  the  rice  and 
dal,  either  a  small  quantity  of  saffron  or  turmeric,  according  to  the  colour 
desired  to  be  imparted.  Such  introduction  in  no  way  alfects  the  flavour, 
nor  does  it  render  the  appearance  of  the  dish  more  attractive,  but  serves 
admirably  as  a  variety  for  a  large  breakfast-table. 

II.— Geela  Kitcheeree. 

This  is  usually  made  of  moong  dal  with  less  than  one-fourth  the 
quantity  of  ghee  allowed  for  the  bhoonee,  or  with  no  ghee  at  all,  and 
little  or  no  condiments  are  used,  excepting  a  small  quantity  of  finely- 
sKced  green  ginger,  a  few  peppercorns,  one  or  two  bay-leaves,  and  salt 
to  taste.  It  is  supposed  to  be  better  adapted  than  bhoonee  kitcheeree 
for  children  and  invalids. 

By  bhoonee  is  meant  crisp,  and  geela  signifies  soft. 


•FELLOW   OR  POOLOO. 


Pellows  are  purely  Hindoostanee  dishes.  There  are  several  kinds  of 
pellow,  but  some  of  them  are  so  entirely  of  an  Asiatic  character  and 
taste  that  no  European  will  ever  be  persuaded  to  partake  of  them.  It 
is  therefore  considered  useless  to  offer  instructions  how  to  prepare 
such  as  the  ukhnee  -pellow,  in  which  are  introduced  cream,  milk,  butter- 
milk, garlic,  and  lime-juice  ;  or  the  sweet  pellow,  in  which  almonds  and 
raisins  are  introduced,  in  addition  to  sugar,  &c. 
The  following  are  the  pellows  in  general  use  : — 

12.— Chicken  Pellow. 

Take  a  good-sized  chicken ;  clean,  truss,  and  boil  it  with  one  pound  of 
beef  in  two  cupfuls  of  clean  water,  seasoning  it  with  onions,  ginger,  and 
salt.  When  sufficiently  cooked,  but  yet  quite  firm,  remove  the  chicken, 
and  set  it  and  the  gravy  aside.    Cut  up  twelve  onions  lengthways  into 


s 


THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK.  13 

fine  slices.  Warm  your  pot ;  then  melt  in  it  two  chittacks  or  four  ounces 
of  ghee,  and,  as  it  bubbles,  tlirow  in  the  sliced  onions  and  fry  to  a  light 
brown ;  remove  and  set  aside.  Then  put  in  half  a  pound,  or  a  coonkee, 
of  the  best  bassrauttee  or  cheeneesuckur,  having  drained  away  all  the 
water  in  which  it  was  washed,  and  fry.  On  the  rice  absorbing  the  ghee, 
throw  in  a  few  cloves,  four  or  hve  cardamoms,  half  a  dozen  srnall  sticks 
of  cinnamon,  some  peppercorns,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  and  one  dessert- 
spoonful of  salt.  Mix  up  the  whole,  and  pour  over  it  the  gravy  in  which 
the  chicken  and  beef  were  boiled,  or  as  much  of  it  only  as  will  entirely  cover 
the  rice ;  close  the  pot  immediately  with  a  close-fitting  cover,  and  set  on 
a  slow  fire.  As  the  gravy  continues  to  decrease  or  to  be  absorbed,  so 
keep  reducing  the  fire,  shaking  up  the  pot  occasionally,  or  stirring  its 
contents,  to  prevent  the  pellow  from  burning.  Brown  the  boiled  cliicken 
in  a  pan  with  ghee  or  butter,  and  serve  up  as  follows  : — 

Place  the  chicken,  either  whole  or  cut  up,  on  the  centre  of  a  dish, 
covering  it  with  the  pellow  ;  strew  over  it  the  fried  onions,  garnishing  it 
besides  with  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  into  halves,  or  in  some  device, 
and  with  half  a  dozen  bits  of  finely-sliced  and  fried  bacon,  to  suit  the 
taste  of  those  who  like  the  latter. 

13.— Beef,  Mutton,  or  Kid  Pellow.  n^ 

Take  two  pounds  of  beef,  and  cut  up  as  for  a  curry,  or  take  a  small 
but  good  leg  of  mutton,  or  two  legs  of  a  kid,  rejecting  the  loin. 

Make  a  good,  strong  gravy  with  seasoning  of  shced  onions,  ginger, 
and  salt,  with  water,  which  when  cooked  down  will  be  reduced  to  about 
sufficient  only  to  cover  the  rice.  Then  proceed  to  make  the  pellow  in  all 
respects  as  directed  in  the  foregoing  recipe.  The  beef  is  not  further 
used  for  the  table,  but  treat  the  legs  of  the  kid,  or  the  mutton,  the 
same  as  the  chicken,  and  serve  up  with  fried  onions,  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  fried  bacon,  like  the  chicken  pellow. 

14.— Prawn  Pellow.  V 

Instead  of  a  chicken,  provide  yourself  with  eight  or  ten  good-sized 
'*bagda  prawns,"  and  a  good  hard  cocoanut.  After  frying  and  setting 
aside  the  shced  onions,  as  directed  above,  the  rice  is  to  be  fried,  but, 
instead  of  using  chicken  or  any  other  meat  broth,  cook  it  in  the 
milk  of  the  cocoanut  {vide  recipe  No.  54),  observing  in  all  particulars 
the  instructions  given  for  the  chicken  pellow,  recipe  No.  12,  and  serve 
up  as  follows  : — Dish  up  the  pellow,  strew  over  it  the  fried  onions,  and 
garnish  with  the  prawns  finely  boiled,  and  two  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in 
halves  or  in  some  device. 

The  cocoanut  milk  will  impart  a  sweetish  flavour  to  the  pellow,  but  it 
is  not  disagreeable;  and  its  sweetness  may  be  subdued,  if  required,  by 
reducing  the  strength  of  the  cocoanut  milk. 

15.— Lobster  or  Pish  Pellow. 

Take  out  the  centre  bones  of  one  or  two  hilsa  or  beckty  fishes,  which 
are  procurable  fresh  and  good  in  the  market,  and  eight  or  ten  large  long- 
legged  lobsters  with  the  roe  or  coral;  thoroughly  wash  in  several  waters 


14 


THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK. 


with  salt,  and  boil  with  plenty  of  seasoning  of  onions,  sliced  ginger, 
peppercorns,  a  dozen  bay-leaves,  a  tablespoonful  of  nnroasted  dhuniah 
or  coriander  seed,  and  salt,  with  water  sufficient  to  give  the  required 
quantity  of  gravy.  When  ready,  remove  and  shell  the  lobsters,  reserving 
the  roe  or  red  coral  in  the  heads,  which  bruise  down  with  a  little 
nnroasted  coriander  seed,  and  mix  with  the  fish  gravy.  Make  the  pellow 
in  all  other  respects  the  same  as  prawn  pellow,  usmg  the  gravy  of  the 
fish  instead  of  cocoanut  or  other  gravy,  and  garnish  with  the  lobsters,  &c. 


CURRIES. 

A  CUREY-STONE  and  muller,  or  what  the  natives  call  seal  our  lurriah,  are 
necessary  for  the  preparation  of  condiments  for  daily  use.  The  con- 
diments should  be  carefully,  and  each  kind  separately,  ground  dovm  to  a 
nice  paste  with  a  little  water. 

Condiments  prepared  with  water  will  not  keep  good  any  number 
of  days  ;  if  required  for  a  journey,  therefore,  or  as  presents  for  friends  at 
home,  good  sweet  oil  and  the  best  English  vinegar  should  be  substituted 
for  the  water.  For  the  preparation  of  condiments  for  this  purpose  see 
recipe  No.  65. 

The  first  cost  of  a  curry-stone  and  muller  of  large  size  will  not  exceed 
one  rupee,  but  they  will  require  re-cutting  every  three  or  four  months,  at 
a  cost  not  exceeding  one  anna  each  re-setting. 

The  following  is  a  list  of  curry  condiments  and  hotspice  in  almost 
daily  use  :— 


Curry  onions,  or  carree  ha  piaj\ 
Turmeric,  or  huldee 
Garlic,  or  lussoon 
Green  ginger,  or  uddruck 
Dry  chilies,  or  sooka  mirritch 
Coriander-seed,  or  dhunnia 
Cumin-seed,  ox  jeerah 
Peppercorns,  or  gool  mirritch 
Bay-leaves,  or  tage  paththa 
Lemon-grass,  or  uggheaghass 

Poppy-seed,  or  post  ka  danna 
Onion-seed,  or  cullinga 
Stick  cinnamon,  or  dalcheenee 
Cardamoms,  or  elachee 
Cloves,  or  loung 
Nutmeg,  01  jyephall 
Mace,  or  jowttree 


price  from  3  to  8  pice    per  seer. 

,,  3  to  5  annas 

„  2  to  3  annas 

,,  2  to  4  annas 

„  3  to  5  annas 

,,  3  to  4  armas 

„  5  to  6  annas 

„  5  to  6  annas 

,,  2  to  3  annas 

„  3  to  6  pice  for  a  bundle  of 
1 6  to  20  blades  of  grass. 

„  3  to  4  annas  per  seer. 

„  6  to  8  annas       „ 

I     Mixed  i  prices  range  from  Rs.  3-M 
r  to  4  per  seer. 


However  high  prices  may  range,  one  rupee-worth  of  mixed  condiments, 
including  hotspice,  will  suffice  for  a  month's  consumption  for  a  party  of 
from  four  to  six  adults,  allowing  for  three  curries  per  day,  cutlets  and 
made  dishes  included. 


THE  INDIAN  COOKEAY  BOOK,  18 


GHAVY  CURRIES. 

The  following  directions  for  an  every-day  ^ravy  chicken  curry  will  apply 
equally  to  all  ordinary  meat  gravy  curries  :— 

1 6. —Chicken  Curry, 

Take  one  chittack  or  two  ounces  of  ghee,  two  breakfast-cupfuls  of 
water,  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  salt,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  ground 
onions,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  turmeric  and  chilies,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  ground  ginger,  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  garlic. 

To  suit  the  taste  of  those  who  like  it,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground 
coriander-seed  may  be  added,  which  should  be  roasted  before  being 
ground.    Observe  the  following  directions  for  cooking : — 

Take  the  usual  full-sized  curry  chicken,  the  price  of  which  has  latterly 
ranged  from  three  to  four  annas,  and  divide  it  into  sixteen  or  eighteen 
pieces.  Warm  the  pot,  melt  in  it  the  ghee,  and  immediately  it  begins 
to  bubble  throw  in  all  the  ground  condiments,  stirring  until  quite 
brown ;  then  put  in  the  cut-up  chicken  and  the  salt,  and  stir  up  to 
a  good  light-brown  colour ;  thea  add  the  water,  and  allow  the  whole  to 
simmer  over  a  slow  firjB  until  the  chicken  is  quite  tender,  and  the  liquid 
reduced  to  about  half  its  original  quantity.  The  operation  of  cooking  or 
simmering  will  take  from  a  Half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

17.— Kid  Curry. 

Take  a  hind-quarter  or  a  fore-quarter  of  kid,  which  may  be  obtained  at 
from  three  to  four  annas  the  quarter ;  cut  it  up  into  sixteen  or  eighteen 
pieces;  take  condiments  in  the  proportion  given  in  recipe  No.  16, 
and  cook  it  in  every  particular  the  same  as  the  chicken  curry,  allowing  it 
to  simmer  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

18.— Veal  Curry. 

A  small  shoulder  of  veal,  the  price  of  which  ranges  from  three  to  four 
annas,  may  be  selected ;  cut  off  from  it  sixteen  or  eighteen  one-inch 
square  pieces  of  the  best  part  of  the  meat,  and  curry  it  in  every  parti- 
cular the  same  as  a  chicken,  only  allowing  it  to  simmer  half  to  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

19.— Mutton  Curry, 

Obtain  a  small  shoulder  at  from  five  to  six  annas ;  cut  it  up  into  sixteen 
or  eighteen  one-inch  square  pieces,  rejecting  all  the  bones ;  curry  it  the 
same  as  a  chicken,  allowing  it  to  simmer  for  half  an  hour  longer,  or  until 
ine  meat  is  tender. 

N.B.— The  bones  of  the  veal  and  mutton,  referred  to  in  this  and  the 
foregoing  recipe,  may  be  turned  to  account  for  stock  or  gravy  for  some 
made  dish. 

20.— Beef  Curry. 
Two  pounds  of  well-selected  meat  will  cost  from  three  to  four  annas 
cut  it  up  into  one-inch  square  pieces,  rejecting  all  the  scraggy  part? 


Jo  THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK. 

cook  it  in  every  respect  according  to  the  instructions  given  in  recipe 
No.  16  for  cooking  a  gravy  chicken  curry,  only  allowing  it  to  simmer  for 
a  much  longer  time  than  any  other  curry,  or  until  the  beef  becomes 
tender. 

21. —Green  Duck  Curry. 

The  price  of  a  young  tender  duiiik  tarj  be  quoted  at  from  four  to  fivsl 
annas.    Cut  it  up  exactly  as  you  would  a  chicken,  and  curry  it  in  th2 
same  manner,  allowing  it  to  simmer  for  an  hour  and  a  half.     It  is  desii- 
able  to  introduce  half  a  teaspoonful  each  of  coriander  and  cumin  seeds  m  \ 
this  curry. 

22.— Young  Pigeon  Curry. 

^  Take  four  young  pigeons  ;  cut  each  into  four  pieces,  making  in  all 
sixteen  pieces.  The  price  of  young  pigeons  ranges  from  five  to  six  annas 
the  pair.  The  instructions  given  for  the  cooking  of  a  gravy  chicken 
curry  apply  equally  to  a  pigeon  curry. 


DOOPIAJAS. 

The  literal  translation  of  doopiaja  is  "two  onions,"  and  the  term 
probably  is  correctly  applicable,  as  it  will  be  noticed,  in  the  recipes  \ 
tor  preparing  the  doopiaja  curries,  that  besides  the  full  quantity  of  ground 
onions,  it  is  necessary  to  put  in  about  an  equal  quantity  of  fried  onions, 
thereby  doubling  the  quantity  of  onions. 

Doopiajas  are  more  piquant  curries  ;  they  are  cooked  with  more  ghee 
and  less  water.  The  following  condiments,  &c.,  are  considered  ample  for 
a  really  good  doopiaja  of  chicken  or  of  any  meat : — 

One  chittack  and  a  half  or  three  ounces  of  ghee,  one  breakfast-cupful 
of  water,  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  salt,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  ground 
onions,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  turmeric  and  chilies,  half  a 
teaspoonful   of  ground  ginger,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground 

farlic,  twelve  onions  cut  lengthways,  eacli  into  six  or  eight  slices,  and 
alf  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  coriander-seed  if  it  be  liked. 

23.— Chicken  Doopiaja. 

Take  a  full-sized  curry  chicken  and  divide  it  into  sixteen  or  eighteen 
pieces.  Melt  the  ghee  in  a  warm  or  heated  pot,  fry  brown  the  sliced 
onions  and  set  aside  ;  then  fry  the  ground  condiments,  stirring  the  whole; 
when  brown,  add  the  cut-up  chicken  with  the  salt,  and  fry  to  a  rich 
brown.  Chop  the  fried  onions  and  put  into  the  pot  with  one  cup  of 
water,  and  allow  to  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  one  hour,  when  the 
chicken  will  be  perfectly  tender,  and  the  liquid  reduced  to  a  thick  con- 
sistency, and  to  half  its  original  quantity. 

24.— Kid  Doopiaja 

Is  made  in  all  respects  as  a  chicken  doopiaja,  the  kid  to  be  cut  up 
*n  the  usual  manner.  The  hmd  quarter  is  preferable  l^.o  the  fore 
'uarter. 


THE  INDIAN  COOKEEY  BOOK.  27 


25.— Veal  Doopiaja. 

Take  only  the  meat  fr^m  a  shoulder,  cut  it  up  into  squares,  and  allow 
it  to  simmer  for  half  an  hour  longer  than  the  chicken  doopiaja. 

26.— Mutton  Doopiaja. 

The  flesh  part  of  a  shoulder  is  cut  up  in  squares  and  doopiajed 
exactly  as  a  chicken,  allowing  it  to  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  for  half  an 
hour  longer. 

27.— Beef  Doopiaja. 

Cut  two  pounds  of  bee'^  into  one-inch  square  pieces,  and  follow  all  the 
instructions  given  in  recipe  No.  23,  only  allowing  it  to  simmer  for 
a  much  longer  time  over  a  slow  fire,  until  the  beef  is  perfectly  tender. 

28.— Duck  Doopiaja. 

Divide  as  you  would  a  chicken,  and  cook  the  duck  in  the  same  manner, 
allowing  it  to  simmer  a  little  longer  than  the  chicken  doopiaja.  Half  a 
teaspoonful  each  of  ground  coriander  and  cumin  seed  should  be  mixed 
with  the  condiments. 

29.— Doopiaja  of  Pigeons. 

Take  four  pigeons,  cut  each  into  four  joieces,  and  proceed  in  every 
particular  the  same  as  for  a  chicken  doopiaja. 

30.— Cold  Boiled  Pork  Doopiaja. 

Cut  from  the  remains  of  cold  boiled  pork  sixteen  one-inch  square 
pieces,  and  doopiaje  it  in  the  way  directed  for  a  chicken.  The  thne 
required  to  simmer  will  not  exceed  that  allowed  for  the  chicken 
doopiaja. 

31.— Udder  Doopiaja. 

Take  two  pounds  of  udder ;  before  cutting  it  into  squares,  it  should  be 
parboiled,  and  then  made  into  doopiaja,  allowing  it  to  simmer  over 
a  slow  fire  for  about  two  liouirs. 

32.--TJdder  and  Beef  Doopiaja. 

Take  one  pound  each  of  udder  and  beef ;  parboil  the  udder,  and  then 
cut  it  uj)  with  the  beef  into  one-inch  square  pieces,  and  doopiaje  it, 
allowing  it  to  simmer  for  about  two  hours. 

It  is  necessary  to  impress  on  the  amateur  artist  the  importance  of 
paying  particular  attention  to  the  firing :  a  brisk  fire  will  dry  up  the  ghee 
and  the  water-  before  the  curry  is  half  cooked,  and  necessitate  1  he 
addition  of  more  water,  which  will  in  every  instance  spoil  the  doopiaja, 
although  the  addition  of  a  little  w^ater,  if  such  be  necessary  when  the 
curry  is  nearly  cooked,  will  do  it  no  harm.  In  every  instance  where  ghcs 
butter,  &c.,  is  to  b-:  melted,  it  is  desirable  first  to  warm  the  pot, 

c 


X 


18  THE  INDIAN   COOKEHy  BOOK. 


rOECEMEAT  BALL  CURUIES,  OR  COFTA-KA-CAEREE. 

Beef,  mutton,  cnicken,  fish,  crabs,  and  prawns  are  usually  taken  for 
making  these  curries.  The  ingredients  for  two  pounds  of  meat  or  fish 
are  as  follow  : — Lari,  ghee,  or  mustard  oil,  three  to  four  ounces ;  water 
or  stock,  ^ve  to  six  ounces;  ground  onions,  one  tablespoonful  or  one 
ounce ;  ground  chiiies,  a  quarter  of  a  tablespoonful ;  ground  turmeric, 
a  quarter  of  a  tablespoonful ;  ground  green  ginger,  half  a  teaspoonful  i 
ground  peppercorns,  half  a  teaspoonful ;  ground  garlic,  a  quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  ;  garden  herbs,  finely  chopped,  one  dessertspoonful ;  salt,  one 
dessertspoonful ;  finely -grated  bread-crumbs,  three  tablespoonfuls ;  one 
egg. 
N.B.-— In  the  fish,  crab,  and  prawn  coftas  the  ginger  must  be  omitted. 

33.— Beef  Forcemeat  Ball  Curry. 

Get  rather  more  than  two  pounds  of  good  fat  beef;  wash  it  thoroughly, 
and  cut  it  into  pieces,  rejecting  all.veins  and  scraggy  portions ;  put  about 
two  pounds  of  it  into  a  mortar  and  pound  it  fine,  removing  all  fibres,  veins, 
&c.,  and  if  it  be^desired  put  up  a  broth  of  all  the  rejections.  Mix  with 
the  pounded  beef  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  pepper,  and  garden  herbs,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs ;  add  a  little  of  the  broth,  or  in  its 
absence  some  milk ;  mix  the  whole  well  together ;  beat  up  the  yolk  and 
white  of  the  egg,  add  it  to  the  mixture,  and  make  into  balls  about  the 
size  of  large  walnuts;  roll  them  in  bread-crumbs.  After  heating  the  pot, 
melt  the  lard  or  ghee,  and  fry  brown  the  ground  ingredients,  sprinkling  a 
i;ablespoonful  of  cold  water  over  them ;  then  add  the  coftas  or  balls  with  salt 
to  taste,  and  fry  or  brown  them ;  after  which  pour  into  the  pot  either  a 
cup  of  broth  or  of  water,  and  allow  to  simmer  for  about  two  hours. 

N.B. — Some  cooks  add  to  the  beef  cofta  curries  ground  hot  spices, 
which  are  fried  with  the  curry  condiments,  and  are  suited  to  most  tastes. 

34.— Chicken  Forcemeat  Ball  Curry. 

Procure  a  good  fat  chicken  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet ;  put 
the  suet  into  a  mortar  with  all  the  fleshy  parts  of  the  chicken,  and  pound 
to  a  pulp  ;  make  a  stock  of  gravy  of  the  bones ;  mix  with  the  pounded 
meat  all  the  several  ingredients  named  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  with  the 
addition  of  an  egg  well  beaten  up;  make  into  balls,  roll  in  bread-crumbs, 
and  curry  as  directed  above. 

'  N.B. — The  chicken  cofta  curry  may  also  be  made  without  any  suet ; 
the  general  practice  is  to  get  chickens  rather  larger  than  those  usually 
selected  for  ordinary  curries. 

35.— Mutton  Forcemeat  Ball  Curry. 

Take  the  best  parts  of  a  leg  or  shoulder  of  mutton ;  cut  them  up,  wash, 
and  pound  well  down  ;  make  a  gravy  of  the  bones  and  rejections ;  mix 
"with  the  pounded  mutton  all  the  ingredients  mentioned  in  the  recipe  for 
making  beef  balls,  and  cook  exactly  as  the  beef  cofta  curry. 


THE  INDIAN  COOKEHY  BOOK.  19 

36.— Ball  Curry  of  Liver  and  Udder. 

Get  one  pound  each  of  liver  and  udder ;  thorougWy  wash  and  parboil 
them,  then  cut  them  into  pieces,  put  into  a  mortar,  and  pound  them  to  a 
pulp;  mix  with  pepper,  salt,  herbs,  bread-crumbs,  and  an  eg^;  make  into 
balls,  and  curry  them  in  the  same  manner  as  any  of  the  foregoing  force- 
meat ball  curries. 

37.— Prawn  Cofta  Curry. 

Get  thirty  to  forty  of  the  best  prawns,  and  remove  the  heads  and  shells; 
wash  the  prawns  well  with  salt  and  water,  then  pound  them  to  a  pulp; 
mix  with  it  all  the  ingredients  as  directed  for  the  beef  cofta ;  make  into 
balls,  roll  them  in  bread-crumbs,  and  set  aside.  After  washing  the  heads, 
remove  the  shells,  and  bruise  the  contents  with  a  dessertspoonful  of 
unroasted  coriander-seed  ;  take  all  the  juice,  and  fry  it  with  the  ground 
condiments  ;  then  put  in  the  balls,  brown  them,  add  salt  to  taste,  a  cup 
of  water,  and  simmer  until  they  are  cooked. 

N.B. — Good  mustard  oil  is  preferable  to  using  lard  or  ghee,  and  the 
ginger  must  be  omitted;  but  the  addition  of  a  few  bay-leaves  and  blades 
of  lemon-grass  would  be  an  improvement.  It  is  not  usual  to  dish  up  the 
lemon-grass. 

38.— Lobster  Cofta  Curry. 

According  to  their  size,  take  eight  or  ten  lobsters ;  clean  them 
thoroughly ;  remove  the  heads  and  shells ;  pull  the  flesh  to  pieces  and 
pound  to  a  pulp ;  add  to  it  some  of  the  red  coral  from  the  head,  then 
mix  into  it  the  bread-crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  herbs,  and  an  egg  well 
beaten  up,  and  make  into  balls.  The  remains  of  the  heads  and  the 
contents  of  the  long  legs  bruise  down  with  unroasted  coriander-seed ; 
take  all  the  juice  and  fry  it  in  mustard  oil  with  the  ground  condiments 
omitting  the  ginger,  and  cook  the  balls  in  the  same  way  as  the  prawn 
balls,  with  the  addition  of  bay-leaves  and  a  few  blades  of  lemon-grass. 
Lemon-grass  is  not  served  up. 

39.— Crab  Cofta  Curry. 

Select  ten  or  twelve  glieewalla  JcakaraJis,  or  crabs  full  of  the  red  coral : 
wash  them  thoroughly,  then  boil  them ;  remove  all  the  meat  and  coral 
out  of  the  shells,  pound  to  a  pulp,  and,  after  mixing  all  the  ingredients 
and  fixing  them  with  an  egg  well  beaten  up,  make  into  balls,  and  cook 
them  in  all  respects  according  to  the  directions  for  lobster  cofta  curry. 
Time  to  simmer :  say  half  an  hour. 

40.— Fish  Cofta  Curry. 

Cold  boiled  or  fried  fish  is  the  best  adapted  for  making  coftas ;  it 
not  necessary  to  give  other  instructions  than  those  already  given  at 
length  in  the  foregoing  recipes,  excepting  that  mustard  oil  is  the  best 
adapted  for  fresh-fish  curries. 

N.B.— The  remains  of  hermetically-sealed  fish,  such  as  salmon  and 
mackerel,  removed  from  dinner,  are  well  adapted  for  making  cofta 
curries. 

Under-done  roast  meats,  such  as  beef,  mutton,  veal,  and  fowl,  will 
make  excellent  cofta  curries. 

c2 


20  THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK. 


COUNTRY  CAPTAIN. 

The  conntry  captain  is  usually  made  of  chicken,  and  occasionally  of  kid 
and  veal.  Cold  meats  and  curries  are  also  sometimes  converted  into  this 
dish,  the  condiments  for  which  are  as  follow  :— Two  chittacks  or  four 
ounces  of  ghee,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  chilies,  one  teaspoonful  oi 
salt,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  turmeric,  and  twenty  onions, 
cut  up  lengthways  into  fine  slices. 

41.— Chicken  Country  Captain. 

Cut  up  in  the  usual  way  an  ordinary  curry  chicken.  Warm  the  ghee 
and  fry  the  sliced  onions,  which  when  brown  set  aside ;  fry  the  ground 
turmeric  and  chilies,  then  throw  in  the  chicken  and  salt,  and  continue 
to  fry,  stirring  the  whole,  until  the  chicken  is  tender.  Serve  it  up, 
strewing  over  it  the  fried  onions. 

42.— Kid  Country  Captain. 

Before  cutting  up  the  kid,  a  four-quarter,  let  it  be  partially  broiled  or 
roasted,  and  then  make  it  into  country  captain  in  accordance  with  the 
above  directions ;  or,  instead  of  partially  roasting  the  kid,  add  half  a  cup 
of  water  to  assist  the  meat  to  dissolve. 

43.— Veal  Country  Captain. 

Partially  broil  or  roast  a  shoulder  of  veal  before  cutting  it  up;  or  make 
the  country  captain  as  directed  in  recipe  No.  42,  by  adding  half  a  cup 
of  water  instead  of  partially  broiling  the  meat. 

44— Jhal  Frezee. 

Cut  up  into  small  squares,  of  less  than  an  inch,  either  cold  mutton, 
beef,  or  veal,  rejecting  the  bones  ;  add  a  large  quantity  of  sHced  onions 
some  chilies  cut  up,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Warm  a  chittack, 
or  two  ounces  of  ghee,  and  throw  into  it  the  meat,  onions,  chilies,  and 
salt,  and  allow  to  simmer,  or  fry,  stiiTing  the  whole  while,  until  the 
onions  axe  quite  tender. 


HINDOOSTANEE  CURRIES. 
45  — Seik  Kawab 

Is  usually  eaten  with  chappatee  or  hand-bread,  and  only  occasionally  with 
rice,  and  contains  the  following  condiments: — Two  tablespoonfuls  of 
mustard  oil,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  onions,  one  teaspoonful  of 
ground  chilies,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger,  a  quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful of  ground  garlic,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  turmeric,  one 
teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  salt,  a  cup  of  thick  tyre  or  dhye,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  ground  coriander- seed,  the  juice  of  one  large  lemon,  and  a 
little  ghee. 


THE  INDIA.N  COOKEKY  BOOK.  21 

Take  two  pounds  of  beef,  mutton,  or  veal ;  remove  the  bone^  and  chop 
the  meat  slightly,  without  mincing  or  cutting  through  it;  mix  wefi 
together  all  the  ground  condiments,  including  the  oil,  tyre,  and  lemon- 
juice,  in  which  steep  the  chopped  meat,  turning  it  over  occasionally  to 
absorb  the  mixture.  After  a  while  cut  up  the  meat  into  squares  of  equal 
size,  say  two  inches,  and  continue  to  keep  them  in  the  mixture  for  fully 
one  hour ;  then  pass  the  squares  of  meat  either  on  a  silver,  plated,  or 
other  metal  skewer,  and  roast  or  broil  over  a  slow  charcoal  fire,  basting 
tlie  whole  time  with  ghee,  to  allow  the  kawab  to  become  of  a  rich  brown 
colour,  without  burning  or  being  singed  in  the  basting.  liemove  from 
the  skewer,  and  serve  hot. 

46.— Tick-keeali  Kawab. 

Take  two  pouii^^s  of  fat  beef,  wash  it,  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  and 
pound  it  to  a  pulp,  remove  all  fibres,  &c.,  and  then  add  to  it  one 
teaspoonf ul  of  ground  onion,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonf ul  of  ground 
turmeric,  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  garlic,  a  quarter  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  ground  chilies,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  peppercorns, 
a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground 
hot  spices,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  tyre  or  dhye. 

Mix  the  whole  well  together,  add  salt  to  your  taste,  and  the  yolk  and 
white  of  an  egg  well  beaten  up ;  form  into  balls  of  equal  sizes  ;  flatten 
them,  pass  them  on  iron  or  plated  skewers  about  eighteen  inches  long, 
rub  them  well  over  with  ghee,  wrap  them  in  plantain-leaf,  and  roast  or 
broil  them  over  a  charcoal  fire.  Serve  them  up  hot,  removed  from  the 
skewers.    These  are  usually  eaten  with  chappatee. 


HUSSANEE  CURRIES,  OR  CURRIES  ON  STICK. 

The  ingredients  and  condiments  necessary  for  the  curries  on  stick  are 
as  follow  : — One  chittack  and  a  half  of  ghee,  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half 
of  salt,  four  teaspoonf uls  of  ground  onions,  one  teaspoonful  of  turmeric, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  half  a  cupful  of  water,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  ground  garlic,  one  teaspoonful  of  chilies,  half  a  cupful  of  tyre  ol 
dhye,  some  finely-sliced  ginger,  and  as  many  small  curry  Onions  cut  into 
half  as  may  be  required.  Six  silver  pins  five  inches  long  or,  in  the  absence 
of  these,  six  bamboo  pins,  are  required. 

47.— Hussanee  Beef  Curry.         ^ 

Cut  up  two  pounds  of  beef  into  small  squares  not  exceeding  one  inch, 
and  pass  them  on  the  silver  or  bamboo  pins  alternately  with  half  an 
onion  and  a  slice  of  ginger.  Half  a  dozen  sticks  will  be  ample  for  four 
hearty  consumers. 

Warm  the  ghee  and  brown  the  ground  condiments ;  then  put  in  the 
sticks  of  meat,  and  brown,  stirring  the  whole ;  after  this  add  the  tyre 
and  a  little  water,  and  allow  to  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  for  nearly  two 
hours,  when  the  curry  Will  be  ready.  Serve  up  ou  a  curry-dish  without 
removing  the  sticks. 


22  THE  INDIAN   COOKEE-Y  BOOK. 


48.— Hussanee  Mutton  Curry. 

Remove  the  meat  from  a  shoulder  of  mutton,  and  cut  it  int-o  small 

squares ;  the  same  instructions  will  apply  to  the  preparation  of  mutton 
curry  on  stick  as  those  given  for  beef  curry  on  stick.  Time  to  simmer : 
half  an  hour. 

49— Hussanee  Veal  Curry. 

^  Cut  squares  enough  from  a  shoulder  of  veal,  and  observe  the  instruc- 
tions given  in  the  foregoing  re<?ipe.    Time  to  simmer :  one  hour. 

50.— Hussanee  Curry  of  Udder  and  Liver. 

The  udder  and  liver  should  be  parboiled  before  being  cut  up  for  pass- 
ing on  the  sticks  ;  but  in  all  other  respects  the  instructions  given  for  the 
beef  and  mutton  curries  on  stick  will  apply  to  the  udder  and  liver 
curry  on  stick.    Time  to  simmer :  fully  one  hour  and  a  half. 


KURMA  OH  QUOHEMA  CURRY. 

This,  without  exception,  is  one  of  the  richest  of  Hindoostanee  curries, 
but  it  is  quite  unsuited  to  European  taste,  if  made  according  to  the 
original  recipe,  of  which  the  following  is  a  copy  : — 

51.— Quorema  Curry,  Plain. 

Take  two  pounds  of  mutton,  one  pound  of  tyre  or  dhye,  two  chittacks 
of  garlic,  one  dam  of  cardamoms,  four  chittacks  of  bruised  almonds,  four 
mashas  of  saffron,  the  juice  of  five  lemons,  one  pound  of  ghee,  four 
chittacks  of  sliced  onions,  one  dam  of  cloves,  one  chittack  of  pepper,  four 
chittacks  of  cream,  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  garlic. 

The  following  is  the  recipe  of  the  qiiorema  curry  usually  put  on  a 
gentleman's  table : — Two  chittacks  and  a  half  or  five  ounces  of  ghee,  one 
cup  or  eight  ounces  of  good  thick  tyre,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  chilies, 
four  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  onions,  one  teaspoonful  of  coriander-seed,  six 
small  sticks  of  ground  cinnamon,  two  or  three  blades  of  lemon-grass,  one 
teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  salt,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger,  a 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  garlic,  eight  or  ten  peppercorns, 
four  or  five  ground  cloves,  five  or  six  ground  cardamoms,  two  or  three 
bay-leaves,  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  water,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and 
twelve  large  onions  cut  lengthways  into  fine  slices. 

Take  two  pounds  of  good  fat  mutton,  and  cut  it  up  into  pieces  nearly 
one  inch  and  a  half  square.  Warm  the  ghee,  fry  in  it  the  sliced  onions, 
and  set  aside ;  then  fry  all  the  ground  condiments,  including  the  ground 
hot  spices.  When  quite  brown,  throw  in  the  mutton  and  salt,  and  allow 
the  whole  to  brown,  after  which  add  the  tyre,  the  hot  spices  with 
peppercorns  and  bay-leaves,  the  lemon-grass,  the  water,  and  the  fried 
onions  finely  chopped ;  close  the  pot,  a-nd  allow  it  to  sim.mer^  over  a 
gentle  coal  fire  for  about  an  hour  and  a  halt  or  two  hours,  by  which  time 
the  kurma  will,  be  quite  ready.  The  blades  of  lemon-grass  are  never 
dished  up. 


THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK.  23 

52,— Kid  Quoroma. 

Cut  up  a  fore-quarter  or  a  hind-(i  uarter  of  a  kid  into  eight  or  ten  pieces,        ^ 
and  cook  it  exactly  as  directed  in  tlie  foregoing  recipe.    Tliis  is  rather 
preferred  to  mutton  quorema. 

53.— Fowl  Quorema. 

Take  a  young  full-grown  tender  fowl ;  cut  it  up  as  for  an  ordinary        \. 
curry,  cook  it  with  all  the  condiments  in  the  proportions  given,  and 
observe  all  the  directions  laid  down  in  recipe  No.  51. 

N,B. — Most  Europeans  give  the  preference  to  the  fowl  quorema. 


MALAY  CURRIES. 

The  condiments  and  other  ingredients  necessary  are  as  follow : — One 
chittack  or  two  ounces  of  ghee,  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  salt, 
four  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  onions,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  turmeric, 
one  teaspoonful  of  ground  chilies,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger, 
a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  garlic,  the  milk  of  a  large  cocoanut, 
say  two  cups,  two  blades  of  lemon-grass,  three  or  four  cloves,  ground, 
three  or  four  cardamoms,  and  as  many  small  sticks  of  cinnamon,  ground. 

The  coriander  and  cumin  seeds  must  on  no  account  be  put  into  malay 
curries,  or  the  delicate  flavour  of  the  cocoanut  will  be  destroyed. 

It  will  be  necessary  to  provide  what  the  natives  call  a  nariaUca- 
khoornee,  which,  interpreted,  means  "  cocoanut  scraper."  It  is  a  small 
circular  flat  piece  of  iron,  about  the  size  and  thickness  of  a  Spanish  dollar, 
the  edges  being  notched.  It  is  of  rude  construction,  and  fixed  on  a  con- 
veniently-shaped wooden  frame,  also  of  rude  construction.  The  best  of 
the  kind  may  be  procured  for  two  annas. 

I, 
54.— Cocoanut  Milk. 

The  nut  is  scraped  or  rasped  with  the  aid  of  the  "khoornee  "  into  very 
fine  particles  ;  it  is  then  put  into  a  deep  vessel,  and  boiling  water  poured 
over  it  until  the  whole  of  the  scraped  cocoanut  is  covered.  After  allowing 
it  to  steep  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  it  is  carefully  strained  through  a 
clean  napkin  into  another  vessel  or  cup,  the  pulp  is  returned  into  the 
original  vessel,  and  more  boiling  water  is  poured  over  it.  This  operation 
of  steeping  in  boiling  water  and  straining  is  continued  until  you  have 
obtained  the  required  quantity  of  the  extracted  milk  of  the^  cocoanut. 
I!  The  pulp  is  thrown  away.  If  the  cocoanut  be  a  small  one,  or  its  nut  not 
hard  and  deep,  it  will  be  necessary  to  provide  a  second  cocoanut.  Good 
cocoanuts  are  sold  at  an  anna  to  an  anna  and  a  iialf  a  piece. 

55.~-Chicken  Malay  Gravy  Curry  with  White 
Pumpkin  or  Cucumber. 

Take  the  usual  full-sized  curry  chicken,  and  divide  it  as  before  directed; 
get  either  six  cucumbers  or  a  quarter  of  a  white  pumpkin;  remove  th« 


24  THE  INDIAN  COOKEKY  BOOK. 

green  skin  and  the  part  containing  the  seeds,  then  cut  it  up  into  sixteen 
pieces  of  about  two  inches  square,  and  steep  in  water. 

Fry  in  the  ghee  all  the  ground  condiments,  including  the  ground  hot 
spices;  when  brown,  add  the  cut-up  chicken  and  salt;  fry  to  a  fine 
bright  light  brown ;  then  put  in  the  pumpkin,  having  previously  allowed 
all  the  water  to  drain  away  through  a  colander;  pour  in  the  two  cups  of 
cocoanut  milk,  the  lemon-grass,  and  hot  spices,  and  allow  the  whole  to 
simmer  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  half  an  hour,  when  the  curry  will  be  ready : 
the  blade  of  lemon-grass  is  not  dished  up. 

56.— Prawn  Malay  Gravy  Curry  with  White 
Pumpkin  or  Cucumber. 

Select  the  bagda  prawns  (hagda  cJiingree),  whenever  they  are  pro- 
curable, in  preference  to  any  other  description.  The  shell  and  head  are 
of  a  dark  colour  in  comparison  with  what  are  called  jeel  ka  chingree,  the 
shell  and  head  of  which  are  very  perceptibly  several  shades  lighter  than 
the  bagdas. 

It  is  impossible  to  quote  any  price  as  a  guide,  the  fluctuation  being 
almost  incredible.  Eine  large  prawns,  not  lobsters— prawns  which, 
without  their  heads,  would  be  about  the  size  of  the  ordinary  dried 
Normandy  pippms  sent  out  to  this  country  for  tarts— may  be  obtained 
one  day  at  two  annas  for  twenty,  and  the  next  day  they  will  not  be  pro- 
curable at  less  than  eight  annas  for  the  same  number  This  remark 
applies  generally  to  fish  of  every  description  brought  for  saJe  into  the 
Calcutta  market. 

^  With  one  other  remark  of  importance,  we  shall  proceed  to  the  instruc- 
tions necessary  for  the  preparation  of  the  prawn  malay  gravy  curry. 

The  xjrawns  should  be  parboiled  after  removing  the  heads,  to  rid  them, 
as  the  natives  call  it,  of  besine,  which  means  all  disagreeable  character  of 
fishy  smell  and  taste. 

As  a  rule,  the  heads  of  prawns  should  always  be  rejected,  which,  in  the 

Erocess  of  frying,  absorb  largely  the  ghee,  and  in  the  cooking  dispel  a 
quid  from  their  spongy  formation. 

In  all  other  respects,  the  prawn  gravy  malay  curry  is  cooked  like  the 
chicken  malay  gravy  curry,  omitting  the  ginger ;  but  an  additional  blade 
or  two  of  the  lemon- grass  would  not  be  amiss,  which,  on  the  curry  being 
dished,  are  thrown  away. 

57— Chicken  Malay  Gravy  Curry  with  Pulwal. 

Take  a  fat  chicken,  clean  it,  remove  all  the  flesh  and  pound  it  to  a  pulp, 
and  prepare  it  in  every  respect  as  directed  in  recipe  No.  34  for  a  cofta 
curry,  omitting  the  suet.  Take  a  dozen  large-sized  pulwals,  scrape  or 
pare  away  the  outer  skin,  split  them  down  one  side,  extract  all  the  seeds, 
&c.,  and  throw  the  pulwals  into  cold  water;  wash  and  drain  away  all  the 
water,  then  stuff  them  with  the  prepared  forcemeat,  tie  them  with  fine 
sewing  cotton,  and  cook  them  in  the  milk  of  cocoanut,  exactly  as  directed 
in  recipe  No.  55, 

58.— Prawn  Malay  Gravy  Curry  with  Pulwal. 

Take  bagda  prawns;  shell  and  clean  them,  pound  to  a  pulp,  and 
prepare  d^  directed  in  recipe  No.  37  for  prawn  cofta  curry.     Take  a 


THE  INDIAN   COOKEEY  BOOK.  25 

dozen  pulwals,  peel  them  finely,  cut  them  open  lengthways,  clear  them 
of  all  seeds,  &c.,  wash  and  dry  them,  then  stuff  them  with  the  prepared 
prawn  mince  ;  tie  the  pulwals  with  sewing  cotton,  and  cook  in  cocoanut 
milk  as  directed  in  recipe  Iso.  56. 

59.— Chicken  Malay  Doopiaja. 

The  condiments  and  ingredients  are  as  follow:— One  chittack  and 
a  half  or  three  ounces  of  ghee,  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  salt, 
four  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  onions,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  turmeric, 
one  teaspoonful  of  ground  chilies,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger, 
a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  garlic,  one  cup  of  strong  cocoanut 
milk,  and  one  dozen  onions  cut  lengthways  into  fine  slices. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  in  the  usual  manner,  warm  the  ghee,  fry  and  set 
aside  the  sliced  onions,  then  fry  brown  the  ground  condiments,  after 
which  add  the  chicken  and  salt.  When  fried  brown,  pour  in  the  cocoanut 
milk  and  the  fried  onions  finely  chopped,  and  allow  to  simmer  over  a  slow 
fire :  the  Malay  doopiaja  will  be  ready  in  an  hour. 

60.— Prawn  Malay  Doopiaja. 

Take  sixteen  or  twenty  large  bagda  prawns,  throw  away  the  heads, 
parboil  the  prawns,  and  then  doopiaje  in  all  respects  as  for  a  chicken 
Malay  doopiaja,  omitting  the  ginger. 


POETUGUESE  CURUY  (VINDALOO  OR  BINDALOO). 

This  well-known  Portuguese  curry  can  only  be  made  properly  of  beef, 
pork,  or  duck.  The  following  is  a  recipe  of  the  vindaloo  in  general 
use : — 

Six  ounces  or  three  chittacks  of  ghee  or  lard,  one  tablespoonful  of 
bruised  garlic,  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  garlic,  one  tablespoonful  of 
ground  ginger,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  chihes,  one  teaspoonful  of 
roasted  and  ground  coriander-seed,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  roasted  and 
ground  cumin-seed,  two  or  three  bay-leaves,  a  few  peppercorns, 
four  or  five  cloves,  roasted  and  ground,  four  or  five  cardamoms, 
roasted  and  ground,  six  small  sticks  of  cinnamon,  roasted  and  ground, 
with  half  a  cup  of  good  vinegar,  to  two  pounds  of  pork  or  beef  or  a 
duck. 

]SI".B. — The  best  vindaloo  is  that  prepared  with  mustard  oil. 

61.— Beef  Vindaloo. 

Cut  up  two  pounds  of  fat  beef  into  large  squares,  and  steep  them  in  the 
vinegar,  together  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  all  the  ground 
condiments,  from  eighteen  to  twenty-four  hours.  Then  warm  the  ghee  ot 
lard  and  throw  in  the  meat,  together  with  the  condiments  and  vinegar  in 
which  it  had  been  steeped,  adding  a  few  peppercorns  and  bay-leaves,  and 
allow  to  simmer  gently  over  a  slow  fire  for  two  hours,  or  until  th'.^  meat 
is  perfectly  tender,  and  serve  up  hot. 


\ 


86  THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK. 


\  62.— Pork  Vindaloo. 

Cut  up  two  pounds  of  fat  pork  into  large  squares,  and  curry  according 
to  the  directions  given  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  omitting  the  cloves, 
cardamoms,  and  cinnamon. 

63. —Duck  Vindaloo. 

\  Take  a  young,  full-grown,  but  tender  duck ;  cut  it  up  as  for  a  curry, 
and  put  it  through  the  same  course  of  pickling  from  eighteen  to  twenty- 
four  hours  before  being  cooked. 

64.— Pickled  Vindaloo  (adapted  as  a  Present  to  Friends 
at  a  Distance). 

If  the  following  instructions  be  carried  out  carefully,  the  vindaloo  will 
keep  good  for  months,  and,  if  required,  may  be  sent  as  an  acceptable 
present  to  friends  at  home. 

In  order  to  keep  it  good  sufficiently  long  to  be  sent  home  round  the* 
Cape,  select  the  fattest  parts  of  pork;  satisfy  yourself  that  the  meat  is 
fresh  and  sound,  and  that  it  has  not  been  washed  with  water  in  the 
butcher's  shop.  '  Cut  the  meat  into  two-inch  squares,  wash  thoroughly 
in  vinegar  (no  water),  rub  over  with  the  following  condiments,  and  then 
steep  them  in  really  good  English  vinegar  for  twenty-four  hours : — Garlic 
bruised,  not  ground  down,  dry  ginger  powdered,  turmeric  powdered, 
peppercorns  roasted  and  powdered,  coriander-seeds  roasted  and 
powdered,  cumin-seeds  roasted  and  powdered,  and  dry  salt. 

Melt  a  large  quantity  of  the  best  mustard  oil  in  an  earthen  pot,  and, 
according  to  the  quantity  of  meat,  take  additional  condiments  mentioned 
above,  but  in  the  proportion  given  in  recipe  No,  61 ;  grind  in  vinegar, 
and  fry  in  the  oil ;  then  put  in  the  meat,  and  all  the  vinegar,  &c.,  in  which 
it  had  been  steeped,  together  with  some  more  salt,  a  little  more  vinegar,  a 
few  bay-leaves  and  peppercorns,  and  allow  to  simmer  until  tlie  meat  is 
quite  tender.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  allow  it  to  get  quite  cold  ;  then 
put  it  into  dry  stone  jars,  with  patent  screw  tops,  well  filled  with  plenty 
of  the  oil  in  which  the  vindaloo  was  cooked.  Take  care  that  all  the 
•  meat  is  well  covered  over  with  oil,  which  latter  ouglit  to  be  at  least  from 
two  to  three  inches  above  the  meat  in  the  jar.  Screw  down  the  lid,  and 
•jover  it  over  with  a  good  sound  bladder  to  render  it  perfectly  air-tight. 
_  When  required  for  use,  take  out  only  as  much  as  will  suffice,  and 
simply  warm  it  in  a  little  of  its  own  gravy. 

65.— Curry  Paste 

Is  likewise  adapted  for  sending  as  a  present  to  friends  at  home.^  It  is 
made  in  the  following  manner : — Eight  ounces  of  dhunnia,  or  coriander- 
seed,  roasted;  one  ounce  of  jeerah,  or  cumin-seed,  roasted;  two  ounces 
of  huldee,  or  dry  turmeric  ;  two  ounces  of  lal  mirritcli,  dry  chilies ;  two 
ounces  of  kala  mirritch,  black  pepper,  roasted ;  two  ounces  of  rai,  or 
mustard-seed  ;  one  ounce  of  soat,  or  dry  ginger ;  one  ounce  of  lussan,  or 
garlic  ;  four  ounces  of  nimmuck,  salt ;  four  ounces  of  cheenee,  or  sugar  ; 
four  ounces  of  chunna  or  gram  dai  without  husk,  and  roasted.    The  above 


THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK.  27 

ingredients,  in  the  proportions  given,  to  be  carefully  pounded  and  ground 
down  with  the  best  English  white  wine  vinegar  to  the  consist.ency  of  a 
thick  jelly ;  then  warm  some  good  sweet  oil,  and  while  bubbling  fry  in 
it  the  mixture  until  it  is  reduced  to  a  paste ;  let  it  cool,  and  then 
bottle  it. 

N.B.— Great  care  must  be  taken  not  to  use  any  water  in  the  prepara- 
tion, and  mustard  oil  is  better  adapted  than  sweet  oil  for  frying  the 
mixture  in. 


MIDEAS  MULLIGATAWNY  GURRY. 

As  this  dish  is  usually  served  up  and  partaken  of  in  the  place  of 
ordinary  soup,  reference  will  be  made  to  it  hereafter  under  the  head  of 
"  Soups." 

Before  proceeding  to  remark  on  fish,  vegetable,  and  peas  curries,  a 
few  useful  hints  and  suggestions  may  be  offered  on  meat  curries 
generally. 

Li  many  families  the  remains  of  cold  meat,  if  not  required  for  other 
purposes,  are  made  into  curry  :  cold  roast  or  boiled  mutton  is  admirably 
adapted  for  the  purpose;  and  in  ninety-nine  cases  out  of  a  hundred 
consumers  pannot  tell  the  difference.  If  there  be  any  difference  or 
advantage,  it  is  decidedly  in  favour  of  the  cold  meat :  the  roasting  joints 
are  always  of  a  superior  quality  to  meats  sold  under  the  designation  of 
"  curry  meats.^* 

The  remains  of  cold  roast  beef  make  the  best  cofta  curries,  croquets, 
&c.,  and  if  the  beef  be  under-done  no  fresh  beef  will  make  a  better 
doopiaja. 

Yegetables  are  sometimes  put  into  gravy  meat  curries,  never  into 
doopiajas ;  but,  as  a  rule,  the  introduction  of  vegetable  into  any  meat 
curry  is  objectionable,  from  the  fact  that  all  vegetables  in  the  process  of 
boiling  or  cooking  throw  out  a  liquid,  some  more  and  some  less :  the 
potato  throws  out  the  least,  but  of  a  disagreeable  character.  It  is  true 
potatoes  may  be  boiled  before  being  put  into  a  curry,  but  the  piquancy 
and  peculiarity  of  flavour  looked  for  in  a  curry  is  so  palpably  destroyed 
that  the  innovation  may  be  discovered  with  closed  eyes.  The  introduc- 
tion of  vegetable  into  gravy  fish  curries,  however,  is  no  innovation,  as 
the  condiments  used  for  the  one  answer  for  the  other ;  both  are  cooked 
in  oil,  and  the  ginger  omitted. 

66.— GRAVY  EISH  CURRIES. 

Ae  condiments  are  as  follow :  —  Mustard  oil,  one  chittack  or  two 
ounces  ;  water,  two  cups ;  four  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  onions,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  ground  turmeric,  one  teaspoonful-  of  ground  chilies,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  garlic. 

It  will  be  noticed  that  mustard  oil  is  used  instead  of  ghee,  and  no 
ginger. 

Too  much  care  cannot  be  observed  in  thoroughly  cleaning,  rubbing, 
and  washing  the  fish  in  salt  and  water  before  cooking  it  for  the  table. 
"Fish,  if  properly  washed,  when  served  up  will  never  be  ofl'ensive,  umess 
it  be  bad  when  purchased. 


THE  INDIAN   COOKERY   BOOK. 


67.— Hilsa  Fish  Gravy  Curry. 

The  head  and  tail  are  thrown  away,  and  the  fish  cut  into  slice*^  of 
rather  more  than  half  an  inch  thick  j  these  should  be  washed  m 
several  waters  with  salt,  to  rid  them  ot  all  "  besine,"  before  they  are 
curried. 

The  acid  of  tamarind  is  considered  un  improvement,  or  "  amchoor/* 
which  is  sliced  green  mangoe  dried  in  salt. 

68.— Beckty  Fish  Gravy  Curry 

Is  sliced  and  washed  in  salt  like  the  hilsa  before  being  cookefi.  It  is  not 
usual  to  put  any  acid  in  the  beckty  fish  curry. 

69.— Prawn  Doopiaja. 

Take  one  chittack  and  a  half  of  mustard  oil,  four  teaspoonfuls  ot 
ground  onions,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  turmeric,  one  teaspoonful  of 
ground  chilies,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  garlic,  twelve  curry  onions 
cut  lengthways,  each  into  six  or  eight  slices,  one  cupful  of  water,  and 
twelve  large  prawns. 

Clean  and  thoroughly  wash  the  prawns,  rejecting  the  heads,  or  taking 
only  their  substance  pounded  and  squeezed  out  with  unroasted  coriander- 
seed,  and  after  parboiling  the  prawns  make  the  doopiaja  in  ail  respects 
according  to  the  ordinary  mode. 

70.— Sliced  Hilsa  Fish  Fried  in  Curry  Condiments. 

Take  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  onions,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground 
chilies,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  turmeric, 
a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  garlic,  and  one  chittack  of  mustard 
ciL 

After  slicing  a  hilsa  in  the  manner  directed  for  a  curry,  and  having 
thoroughly  cleaned  and  washed  it  with  salt,  rub  into  the  slices  all  the 
ground  condiments  and  the  remaining  salt,  and  allow  them  to  remain 
for  at  least  an  hour.  Warm  the  oil,  and  fry  the  slices  of  fish  of  a  very 
light  and  bright  brown.     Serve  up  hot. 

71.— Sliced  Beckty  Fish  Fried  in  Curry  Condiments. 

Slice,  wash,  and  fry  exactly  as  directed  above.  Eish  served  up  in  this 
manner  is  well  suited  to  some  European  tastes,  and  makes  an  agreeable 
change  to  the  ordinary  mode  of  frying  fish  for  breakfast. 

72.— EGG  CURRY. 

Take  six  or  eight  eggs,  boil  hard,  shell,  cut  into  halves,  and  set  them 
aside;  take  ghee,  ground  condiments,  and  sliced  fried  onions,  in  all 
respects  the  same  as  for  a  chicken  doopiaja,  and  observe  precisely  the 
same  method  of  cooking,  keeping  in  mind  the  fact  that,  the  eggs  being 
already  cooked  or  boiled,  a  smaller  quantity  of  water  and  a  shorter  time 
to  simmer  will  suffice. 


r^  ;k> 


THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK.  29t 


73.— Egg  Curry  with  Green  Peas. 

This  is  a  favourite  curry  with  some  families  in  winter,  when  the 
English  green  peas  are  procurable.  The  method  of  preparing  it  is 
exactly  the  same  as  recipe  No.  71,  allowing  the  curry  to  simmer  until 
the  peas  are  quite  tender. 

74— Egg  Curry,  with  Chunna  Ka  Dal. 

Parboil  the  dal,  say  half  a  cupful ;  curry  the  dal  first ;  when  about 
}ierdrly  cooked,  throw  in  the  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  finish  the  simmering 
immediately  the  dal  is  soft  or  tender. 


\ 


CHAHKEES. 

CuAHKEE  is  a  term  applied  to  vegetable  curries,  some  of  which  are     "\^ 
deservedly  popular,  and  one  in  particular,  which  many  families  have  daily 
during  the  season  the  vegetables  are  procurable,  and  yet  never  tire  of, 
viz. — 

75— Seam,  Potato,  and  Peas  Chahkee.  \ 

Take  twenty  seams,  four  new  potatoes,  and  a  quarter  of  a  seer  of  green 
peas;  divide  each  seam  into  three  pieces,  and  throw  into  a  bowl  of  water; 
divide  each  potato  into  four  pieces,  and  throw  into  water;  shell  the  peas, 
wash  all  thoroughly,  put  into  a  colander  to  drain,  and  cook  with  the 
following  condiments :— One  chittack  and  a  half  of  mustard  oil,  four  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  ground  onions,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  chilies,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  ground  turmeric,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground 
garlic,  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  salt,  and  one  cupful  of  water.  Warm 
the  ojI,  let  it  bubble  well,  and  fry  the  ground  condiments;  when  these 
are  quite  brown  put  in  the  vegetables  and  salt ;  let  the  whole  fry,  stirring 
it  well ;  then  add  the  water,  and  allow  it  to  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  untU 
tlie  vegetables  are  quite  tender. 

N.B. — A  cauliflower  may  be  added  if  required  for  a  change. 

76.~Pulwal,  Potatoes,  and  Torrie. 

Clean  as  much  of  the  above  three  kinds  of  vegetables  as  will  overfill 
a  vegetable-dish,  and  make  the  chahkee  in  all  respects  as  the  foregoing. 

77.— Red  Pumpkin  and  Tamarind. 

A  quarter  of  a  red  pumpkin  and  the  pulp  of  two  or  three  tamarinds       \ 
will  be  enough.    Dissolve  the  pnl])  of  the  tamarind  in  the  water,  and 
put  it  into  the  curry  after  the  pumpkin  has  been  fried. 

78.— White  Pumpkin  and  Tamarind.  \ 

Chahkee  it  in  the  same  way  as  the  red  pumpkin. 


\ 


*«0  THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK, 


79.— White  Pumpkin,  Plain,  Cut  Small. 

^  It  is  not  necessary  to  give  any  further  instructions  than  those  already 

given. 

80.— Tomato  with  Tamarind- 
Take  twenty  tomatoes  and  the  pulp  of  two  or  three  tamarinds,  and 

chahkee  as  directed  for  red  pumpkin. 

81.— Tomato,  Plain. 

Chahkee  twenty  tomatoes  according  to  instructions  given  for  other 
chahkees. 

N.B. — There  is  a  fresh  green  herb  called  soa  mattee,  which  is  some- 
times put  into  fish,  vegetable,  and  other  curries.  Some  Europeans  like 
the  flavour,  and  have  it  daily  when  procurable.  Inquiry  and  trial  are 
recommended. 


SAUG  CUHRIES. 

Hale  an  anna's  worth  of  any  saug  will  suffice  for  a  party  of  four,  for 
curries  made  of  greens,  such  as  spinach,  &c.  The  followiug  condiments, 
&G.,  are  used : — One  chittack  and  a  half  of  mustard  oil,  four  teaspoonfuls 
of  ground  onions,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  chilies,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  ground  turmeric,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  garlic,  one 
teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  ground  salt,  and  one  cupful  of  water. 

82.— Red  Saug  and  Omra. 

The  omra  should  be  peeled,  and  half  fried  if  large.  Great  care  must 
be  taken  to  thoroughly  clean  and  wash  the  greens.  Put  them  into  a 
colander  and  allow  all  the  water  to  drain  away.  Then  warm  the  oil,  and 
fry  the  ground  condiments;  then  the  saug  and  omra,  and  when  crisp  add 
the  water  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  greens  and  omra  are  tender.. 

83.— Red  Saug,  Omra,  and  Shrimps. 

Observe  in  all  respects  the  same  process  as  that  required  in  cooking 
without  the  shrimps,  omitting  the  gniger. 

84.— Red  Saug  and  Prawns. 

The  prawns  should  be  parboiled,  and  then  follow  all  the  instructions 
in  lecipe  No.  82. 

85.— Green  Saug  with  Prawns. 

Proceed  in  every  particular  as  with  the  last. 

86.— Danta  Curry  with  Shrimps. 

The  danta  is  a  fine  delicate  long  green  pod  which  the  horseradish-tree 
yields,  and  contains  small  peas ;  these  pods  are  cut  into  lengths  of  three 


THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK.  31 

or  four  inches  and  cooked  with  shrimps.    Beyond  this  explanation  it  is 
not  necessary  to  enlarge  upon  the  instructions  already  given. 

87.— Khuttah  Carree,  or  Acid  Vegetable  Curry. 

Take  small  quantities  of  all  kinds  of  vegetables  in  season,  but  the  best 
eurry  is  that  made  of  potatoes,  kutchoo  or  artichoke,  sweet  potatoes  or 
suckercund,  carrots,  red  and  white  pumpkins,  and  tomatoes. 

The  vegetables  should  be  cut  into  large  pieces,  and  boiled  in  water 
with  the  following  condiments : — Eour  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  onions, 
one  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  turmeric  and  chilies,  a  quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  ground  garlic,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  roasted  and  ground 
coriander-seed. 

Prepare  two  large  cups  of  tamarind  water,  slightly  sweetened  with 
jaggry,  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  add  the  strained  water  to  the  boiled 
vegetables,  with  a  few  fresh  chilies.  Then  melt  in  a  separate  pot  one 
chittack  or  two  ounces  of  mustard  oil.  While  the  oil  is  bubbling,  fry  in 
it  a  teaspoonful  of  the  coUinga,  or  onion-seeds,  and  when  sufficiently 
fried  pour  it  over  the  boiled  vegetables  including  the  tamarind  water. 
Close  up  the  pot,  and  allow  it  to  simmer  for  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes, 
when  it  will  be  ready.    It  is  eaten  cold. 


BHAHJEES. 

By  bhahjee  is  meant  fried.  The  two  most  generally  approved  vegetable 
bhahjees  are  those  made  of  bringals  and  pulwals.  The  following  are  the 
condiments,  &c.,  used  -.—Mustard  oil  according  to  the  quantity  of  vegeta- 
ble to  be  fried,  a  little  ground  turmeric  and  chilies,  and  some  salt. 

88.— Bringal  Bhahjee. 

Take  young  full-sized  bringals;  wash  them  thoroughly,  and  slice  them 
about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  tliick ;  dry  them,  steep  them  for  half  an  hour 
in  the  ground  condiments  and  salt,  fry  in  oil,  and  serve  up  hot. 

89.— Pulwal  Bhahjee. 

Take  a  dozen  or  more  pulwals — a  most  excellent  and  wholesome  native 
vegetable, — scrape  or  pare  away  very  finely  the  upper  green  coating,  divide 
them  lengthways  into  two  pieces,  clear  away  all  the  seeds,  &c.,  wash, 
drain  away  all  the  water,  and  steep  them  in  ground  turmeric,  chilies, 
and  salt  for  half  an  hour  or  longer ;  then  fry  them  quite  crisp  in  melted 
mustard  oil.    They  are  much  liked  by  some  Europeans. 

N.B. — The  vegetable  called  ram's  horns  or  lady's  fingers,  known  by  the 
natives  as  dharus,  makes  an  excellent  bhahjee ;  so  does  the  kerrella,  a 
small  green  and  intensely  bitter  native  vegetable,  which  conies  into  the 
market  in  March  and  April;  it  is  not,  however,  well  suited  to  the 
European  taste. 


83  THE  INDIAN    COOKESY   BOOK. 


DAL  OR  PEAS  CURRIES. 

Half  an  anna's  worth  of  any  dal  will  suflBce  for  a  party  of  four.  The 
condiments  are  as  follow : — Three-quarters  of  a  chittack  of  ghee,  four 
teaspoonfuls  of  ground  onions,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  chilies,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  ground  turmeric,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger,  a 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  garlic,  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of 
salt,  and  half  a  dozen  onions  cut  into  six  or  eight  slices  each. 

90.— Moong  Dal. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  the  raw  dal,  or  say  half  a  cupful ;  clean,  pick, 
and  roast  it ;  mix  it  up  with  all  the  ground  condiments  and  salt,  put  into 
a  pot,  pour  water  over  the  whole,  some  two  inches  above  the  dal,  and 
boil  it  well,  until  the  dal  has  quite  dissolved.  Be  careful  not  to  disturb 
it  while  in  the  process  of  boiling,  but  allow  it  to  cake  as  it  were  en 
masse.  When  thoroughly  boiled,  churn  the  dal  by  twirling  it  in  a  wooden 
instrument  called  2^ghootnee  ;  then  warm  the  ghee  in  a  separate  pot,  fry 
the  onions,  chop  them,  and  throw  into  the  churned  dal,  after  which  pour 
the  dal  into  the  pot  of  melted  ghee,  and  keep  stirring  until  the  dal  and 
ghee  have  well  mixed ;  then  put  the  cover  on,  and  allow  to  simmer  over 
a  slow  fire  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

N.B. — The  standard  price  of  the  best  roasted  moong  dal  is  two  annas 
and  a  half  per  seer. 

91.— Mussoor  or  Red  Dal. 

The  process  in  all  respects  for  preparing  and  cooking  the  red  dal  is  the 
same  as  for  the  moong  dal,  excepting  that,  instead  of  fried  sliced  onions,  a 
large  clove  of  gailic  is  cut  up  small,  fried,  and  takes  the  place  of  the  onion. 

The  price  of  the  best  quality  mussoor  dal,  free  of  husk,  is  two  annas 
per  seer. 

92.— Mussoor  Dal  with  Amchoor  or  with  Tamarind. 

Put  the  amchoor,  or,  if  preferred,  tamarind,  into  the  pot  with  the  dal ; 
allow  it  to  dissolve,  and  when  the  dal  is  going  through  the  process  of 
being  churned  remove  the  hard  stones  of  the  amchoor  or  seeds  of  the 
tamarind, 

93.— Mussoor  Dal  Chur  Churree. 

Instead  ot  only  half  a  dozen  onions,  take  a  dozen,  and  cut  them  into 
fine  slices  lengthways.  Warm  the  three-quarters  of  a  chittack  of  ghee, 
fry  and  set  aside  the  sliced  onions,  then  fry  all  the  ground  condiments ; 
next  put  in  and  fry  the  dal,  having  previously  washed  it  well,  soaked 
it  in  water  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  drained  it  through  a 
colander.  When  thoroughly  fried  and  browned,  add  only  a  little  water, 
barely  sufficient  to  cover  the  fried  dal,  and  allow  to  simmer  froni  ten  to 
fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the  dpi  has  dissolved.  Serve  up,  strewing  over 
it  the  fried  onions.    If  cLunna  ka  dal  be  used,  soak  it  for  an  hour. 


THE  I^'DIAN    COOKE  P.  V  BOOK:.  oi 

Other  dais  are  occasiomilly  served  up,  hut  very  rarely  at  Europear 
tables.  The  price  of  the  best  clean  chunna  ka  dal  rarely  exceeds  two 
annas  per  seer. 

94-  — Bal  Foolaree 

;Jh  nm<:\\  liked  by  Europeans,  but  is  rarely  served  up  well,  omn^  to  the 
irouDle  and  time  required  in  making  it  properly, 
iur  the  recipe  see  No.  223. 


BUETAS  OR  MASHES. 

BuKTAS  are  mashes  of  potatoes  and  other  vegetables,  cold  meats,  dry 
fish,  &c. ;  they  are  palatable,  and  much  liked  by  most  Europeans  as 
accompaniments  to  curry  and  rice.  The  ingredients  to  almost  every 
burta  are  the  fine  large  white  Patna  onions,  fresh  green  chilies,  and  the 
juice  of  fresh  lemons. 

95— Potato  Burta. 

Take  a  moderate  or  middling  sized  white  Patna  onion ;  remove  the 
outer  coats,  and  slice  very  fine ;  then  slice  or  cut  up  two  hot  green  chilies, 
and  squeeze  over  the  onion  and  chilies  the  juice  of  a  fresh  lime  :  allow 
to  soak.  Take  eight  or  ten  well-boiled  potatoes,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  good  mustard  oil ;  bruise  the  potatoes 
down  wdth  a  large  silver  or  plated  fork,  adding,  when  they  are  half 
bruised,  the  onions  and  chilies,  with  as  much  only  of  the  lime-juice  as 
may  be  agreeable  :  mix  all  well  together  with  a  light  hand,  so  that  the 
potatoes  may  not  cake,  and  yet  be  well  and  thoroughly  mashed  and 
mixed. 

96.— Brinjal  Burta. 

Prepare  the  sliced  onions,  chilies,  and  lime-juice  in  the  manner  directed 
for  potato  burta.  Take  two  fine  young  brinjals  of  large  size ;  carefully 
and  thoroughly  roast  them  in  a  quick  ash  fire ;  remove  the  aslies 
and  burnt  parts  of  the  skin,  if  any;  then  open  the  brinjals,  and  with 
a  clean  spoon  remove  the  contents  to  as  near  the  skin  as  possible,  to 
which  add  a  good  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard  oil ; 
work  these  with  a  spoon  to  a  perfect  pulp,  throwing  away  the  lumps  or 
shreds  if  any;  then  mix  with  it  all  the  onions,  chilies,  and  lime-juice. 
If  not  to  your  taste,  add  more  salt  or  lime-juice,  according  to  fancy. 

97.— Dry  Fish  Burta. 

Prepare  onions,  chilies,  and  lime-juice  as  before.  Take  a  part  of  the 
Arabian  dried  beckty  and  well  broil  it;  remove  all  the  bones,  and 
pound  the  fish  to  nearly  a  powder ;  mix  it  thoroughlj^  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  mustard  oil,  and  add  the  onions,  chilies,  and  lime-juice. 

J) 


M  THE  INDIAN  COOKEBY  BOOK. 


9S.-— Red  Herring  Burta. 

Take  onions,  cliilies,  and  lime-juice.  Place  the  herring,  with  ifcs 
original  paper  packing,  on  a  gridiron,  or  on  a  frying-pan,  and  warm  it 
well ;  then  clear  it  of  all  skin,  very  carefully  pick  out  all  tiie  bones, 
bruise  the  herring,  and  mix  it  thoroughly  with  the  sliced  onions,  chiiie*, 
and  lime-juice. 

N.B. — This  is  an  inimitable  burta. 

99— Cold  Corned-Beef  Burta. 

Steep  sliced  onions  and  chilies  in  lime-juice ;  have  the  red  well-corned 
part  of  a  cold  round  oi  beef  nicely  pounded ;  add  to  it  the  onions,  chilies, 
and  as  much  of  the  lime-juice  as  may  be  desirable. 

100.— Cold  Tongue  Burta. 

s.  The  remains  of  a  well-corned  cold  tongue  make  an  excellent  burta,  as 

per  recipe  for  cold  beef  burta. 

loi. — Cold  Ham  Burta 
\  Is  made  in  the  same  way  as  the  beef  and  tongue  burtas. 

102.— Green  Mango  Burta. 

The  condiments  for  this  burta  are  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground 
chilies,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  fresh  mint-leaves,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  ground  ginger,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

Take  two  ordinary  large-size  green  mangoes ;  peel,  divide,  and  throw 
them  into  clean  water,  remove  the  stones,  then  bruise  them  to  a  perfect 
pulp  with  the  aid  of  the  curry-stone  and  muller.  Care  must  be  taken 
that  the  stone  is  perfectly  clean,  and  will  not  impart  the  flavour  of  garlic 
or  turmeric  to  the  burta.  Mix  the  sugar  well  with  the  pulp  ;  if  the 
mango  be  very  acid,  add  a  little  more  sugar ;  then  mix  it  with  the  salt 
and  ground  condiments ;  more  salt  or  sugar  may  be  added  if  required. 

103.— Tomato  Burta. 

Bake  in  an  oven  a  dozen  good-sized  tomatoes  until  the  skin  cracks ; 
break  them  down,  and  mix  with  them  a  little  ground  chilies,  ginger,  salt, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  good  mustard  oil.  A  small  squeeze  of  lemoor 
juice  may  be  added  if  desired. 


5tMJ8  ITSDIAJ?    COOHERr  BOOK. 


SOUPS 

A  DIGESTER  IS  best  adapted  for  boiling  soups  in,  as  no  steam  can  escape, 
and  consequently  less  water  is  required  than  in  a  common  pot. 

To  extract  the  substance  or  essence  of  meat,  long  and  slow  boiling 
over  a  charcoal  fire  is  absolutely  necessary.  In  the  first  instance,  how- 
ever, it  is  desirable  to  boil  up  the  meat  with  pepper  and  salt  on  a  quick, 
brisk  fire,  and  take  away  all  the  black  scum  which  rises  to  the  surface ; 
then  pour  a  little  cold  water  into  the  pot  to  raise  up  the  white  scum, 
which  also  remove,  and  reduce  the  fire,  taking  care  that  in  the  process 
of  slow-boiling  the  pot  is  never  off  the  boil. 

104.— Shin  of  Beef  Soup. 

Take  a  shin  of  beef,  cut  it  up  small,  wash  it  thoroughly,  and  boil  with 
pepper  and  salt  in  sufficient  water  to  well  cover  the  meat.  Let  it  boil 
over  a  brisk  fire,  taking  away  the  black  scum ;  add  a  little  cold  water, 
and  skim  off  the  white  scum;  then  reducethe  fire,  and  allow  the  soup 
to  simmer  until  it  somewhat  thickens  ;  strain  the  soup,  cut  away  all  the 
fat,  season  with  soup  herbs,  and  add  more  pepper  and^  salt  if  necessary. 
Give  it  a  good  boil  up,  and  then  clear  it  with  the  white  of  an  egg  well 
beaten  up,  after  which  add  a  tablespoonful  of  Lea  &  Perrin's  Worces- 
tershire sauce,  and  half  a  wineglassful  of  sherry. 

105.— Shin  of  Beef  Soup,  with  Forcemeat  and 
Egg  Balls. 

Prepare  a  shin  of  beef  soup  in  all  respects  according  to  the  above 
directions ;  clear  with  an  egg  well  beaten  up,  add  to  it  sauce,  sherry, 
forcemeat,  and  egg  balls. 

106.— Vermicelli  Soup. 

Prepare  a  shin  of  beef  soup  as  directed  above,  omitting  the  sauce  and 
sherry.  Parboil  some  vermicelli,  and  after  clearing  the  soup  with  the 
white  of  an  egg,  add  to  it  the  parboiled  vermicelli,  and  give  it  aU  a  good 
boil  up  before  serving. 

107.— Macaroni  Soup. 

Prepare  a  shin  of  beef  soup  as  directed  above,  omitting  the  sauce  and 
wine ;  boil  some  macaroni  until  perfectly  tender ;  clear  the  soup  with 
the  white  of  an  egg,  then  add  the  boiled  macaroni,  and  warm  up  before 
serving. 

108.— Mulligatawny  Soup. 

Prepare  a  shin  of  beef  soup  as  above,  omitting  the  sauce,  wine,  and 
white  of  egg ;  set  the  soup  aside.  Take  a  full-sized  curry  chicken ;  cut 
it  up  into  sixteen  or  eighteen  pieces,  and  wash  them  thoroughly.  \V  arm  a 

D  2 


.-;0  TRF.  TNPT\N   COOFPBY  MOOK. 

pot  and  melt  in  it  two  cliittacks  or  four  ounces  of  gliee;  fry  in  it  some 
iinely-sliced  onions,  and  set  aside.  Tlien  fry  in  the  melted  gliee  the 
following  condiments,  &c. :— Eour  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  onions,  one 
teaspoonful  of  ground  turmeric,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  chilies,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger,  ^,  qiuu  tor  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  garlic, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  roasted  and  giound  coriander-seed,  and  a  quarter  of 
a  teaspoonful  of  roasted  and  ground  cumin-seed. 

Sprinkle  a  little  water  over  these  while  frying ;  then  add  the  rut  up 
chicken  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  When  nearly  brown,  add  one 
chittack  or  two  ounces  of  roasted  and  ground  poppy-seeds ;  pour  in  the 
beef  soup,  add  the  fried  onion  and  half  a  dozen  of  the  kurreeah  fool 
leaves,  close  the  pot,  and  allow  the  whole  to  simmer  over  a  slow  fire 
until  the  chicken  be  perfectly  tender.  Serve  up  hot,  with  limes  cut  in 
slices  on  a  separate  plate. 

109. — Another  Way. 

Prepare  a  shin  of  beef  as  directed  above.  Cut  up  a  chicken ;  wash  it 
and  set  it  aside.  Heat  a  pot  and  melt  in  it  two  chittacks  or  four  ounces 
of  ghee.  After  frying  in  it  and  setting  aside  some  finely-sliced  onions, 
frv  the  condiments  in  the  proportions  given  in  the  foregoing  recipe ;  then 
add  the  cut-up^  chicken  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt ;  brown  it  nicely  ; 
have  ready  two  chittacks  or  four  ounces  of  roasted  and  ground  chunna  ka 
or  gram  dal,  which  mix  thoroughly  in  a  cup  of  strong  cocoanut  milk, 
and  pour  over  the  chicken  just  as  it  has  become  brown  ;  stir  it  well,  and 
add  the  fried  onions  and  the  soup,  with  half  a  dozen  of  the  kurreeah 
fool  leaves ;  close  the  pot,  and  allow  the  whole  to  simmer  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  up  hot,  with  limes,  either  whole  or  cut  in 
slices,  on  a  separate  plate. 

no.— Delicious  Curry  Soup. 

Prepare  a  strong  beef  soup  ;  slice  some  onions,  and  cut  up  a  chicken- 
take  curry  condiments  as  directed  above,  omitting  the  coriander  and 
cumin  seed ;  melt  two  chittacks  or  four  ounces  of  ghee ;  fry  a»d  set 
aside  the  sliced  onions,  then  fry  the  condiments,  add  the  cut-up  chicken, 
and  fry  that  also.  In  a  part  of  the  beef  soup  boil  a  spoonful  of  tama- 
rind, so  as  to  separate  the  stocks  and  stones  ;  strain  and  stir  it  into  the 
fried  chicken.  After  a  while  add  the  remainder  of  the  beef  soup,  with 
half  a  dozen  kurreeah  fool  leaves,  and  the  fried  onions ;  close  up  the  pot, 
and  continue  to  simmer  the  whole  until  the  chicken  is  quite  tender. 
►Serve  up  hot. 

III.— Bright  Onion  Soup. 

Take  a  shoulder  of  veal ;  cut  it  up  small,  breaking  all  the  bones;  wash 
it  thoroughly,  put  it  into  a  pan  with  pepper,  salt,  and  water,  boil  it  well, 
and  remove  all  the  scum  as  it  rises;  reduce  the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer 
until  the  meat  is  perfectly  dissolved ;  strain  it,  cut  away  all  the  fat,  add 
soup  herbs,  and  more  pepper  and  salt  if  required ;  give  it  a  boil  up,  and 
clear  it  with  the  white  of  an  ^^%  well  beaten  up ;  slice  very  fine  some 
pure  silvery  white  Patna  onions,  and  steep  them  in  boiling  water, 
clianging  the  water  three  or  four  times,  every  ten  minutes ;  drain  away 
all  the  water  and  add  the  onions  to  the  soup ;  boil,  and  serve  up  hot. 


THE  INDIAN   COOKEllY  BOOK.  37 

112.— Briaal  Soup,  or  Soup  Elegant. 

Take  two  large  shoulders  of  veal;  cut  them  up  small,  bones  and  all, 
and,  after  washing  thoroughly,  boil  over  a  brisk  lire,  with  ichite  pepper 
and  the  best  white  salt.  Be  careful  that  the  scum  that  rises  is  well 
skimmed ;  reduce  the  fire,  and  allow  it  to  simmer  until  the  meat  falls  off 
the  bones ;  strain  the  soup,  let  it  cool,  and  then  thoroughly  free  it  of  ail 
fat ;  return  it  into  a  clean  digester,  add  more  salt  and  white  pepper  if 
necessary,  and  some  white  stocks  of  celery  ;  boil  it,  and  clear  it  with  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  up  ;  strain  through  flannel  and  set  aside. 

Take  the  best  and  most  transparent  parts  of  a  calf's  head  and  the 
tongue,  and  boil  perfectly  tender  without  reducing  them  to  shreds, 
being  careful  to  remove  all  the  scum  that  rises  to  the  surface ;  lay  the 
boiled  tongue  and  meat  out  on  a  clean  dish;  slice  the  tongue  fine,  and 
cut  out  all  manner  of  devices,  such  as,  diamonds,  squares,  circles,  hearts, 
stars,  &c. ;  do  the  same  with  the  best  and  cleanest  parts  of  meat  selected 
from  the  head ;  take  care  that  no  particles  of  scum  or  other  impurities 
be  adhering  to  them  ;  where  any  does  adhere,  rinse  it  off  in  a  little  of  the 
cleared  soup ;  then  place  them  carefully  into  the  tureen  in  which  it  is 
purposed  to  serve  up  the  soup.  If  fancy  macaroni  be  procurable,  a  table- 
spoonful  may  be  boiled  tender,  free  of  all  particles  of  dust  or  powder, 
and  added  to  the  cut-u^  meat  and  tongue,  over  which  pour  the  boiling- 
hot  soup ;  add  to  it  a  wineglassful  of  the  palest  sherry,  and  serve  up  hot. 

N.B. — The  calf's  tongue  and  meat  of  the  head  may  be  boiled  with  the 
veal,  but  they  should  be  removed  when  tender,  and  not  allowed  to 
dissolve  with  the  longer  simmering  of  the  veal. 

This  is  an  elegant  soup,  beautifully  transparent,  and  of  the  colour  of 
light  champagne. 

113.— Soup  Royal, 

Take  a  shin  of  beef,  the  best  parts  of  meat  cut  off  from  a  calf's  head, 
and  the  tongue ;  cut  the  beef  into  small  particles,  but  leave  the  tongue 
and  the  meat  from  the  calf's  head  whole  ;  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  boil 
well,  clearing  the  scum  as  it  rises ;  remove  the  tongue  and  the  meat  of 
the  calf's  head  when  sufficiently  tender,  but  continue  to  boil  the  shin  of 
beef  until  it  is  well  dissolved;  then  strain  it,  and  cut  away  all  the  fat ; 
put  it  up  again  with  plenty  of  soup  herbs,  and  more  salt  and  pepper  \\ 
necessary ;  boil  it  well  up ;  squeeze  into  the  soup  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  and  skim  it  well ;  strain  it  once  more,  and  set  it  aside. 

Cut  the  tongue  into  slices  of  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  trim  them 
into  the  shape  of  large  diamonds,  and  set  aside.  Cut  up  the  meat  of  the 
calf's  head  into  one-inch  squares  and  strips  of  an  inch  and  a  half  lon^ 
and  half  an  inch  wide  ;  add  to  these  a  few  ready-fried  circular  flat  brain 
cakes,  make  also  a  few  ^%^  balls  and  forcemeat  balls,  and,  after  cooking, 
add  them  to  the  rest  of  the  meat,  tongue,  &c.,  and  set  aside. 

Take  four  red  carrots,  one  pound  of  green  peas,  half  a  pound  of  boiled 
potatoes,  one  large  turnip,  one  large  Patna  onion,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
roasted  and  ground  split  peas  or  gram  dal,  some  soup  herbs,  pepper,  and 
salt,  the  pulp  of  one  orange,  and  the  peels  of  half  an  orange  and  half  a 
lemon.  Put  these  into  a  stewpan  with  water  sufficient  to  cover  the 
whole;  boi'  them  thoroughly,  skimming  all  the  while;  when  perfectly 
dissolved,  turn  them  out  into  a  colander  and  allow  all  the  water  to  drain 


V 


38  THE  INDIAN   COOKEKT  BOOK. 

away;  then  turn  tlie  contents  of  the  colander  into  a  sieve,  and  pass  tlie 
vegetables,  &c.,  through  it,  rejecting  all  such  as  will  not  pass.  Add  the 
whole  or  a  part  of  the  strained  vegetables  to  the  soup,  which  should  not 
be  thicker  in  consistency  than  a  good  thick  potato  soup. 

Next  stew  one  dozen  good  French  prunes  in  a  claret-glassful  of  port 
wine,  which  also  strain  through  a  sieve,  rejecting  stones,  &c.,  and  add 
the  strained  i)ortion  to  the  soup ;  then  boil  the  whole,  strain  it  once 
more,  add  to  it  all  the  forcemeat  and  egg  balls,  the  brain  cakes,  tongue, 
&c.,  and  serve  up,  adding  to  it  more  salt,  wine,  or  sauce,  if  needed. 

N.B. — This  soup  properly  made  is  without  its  equal. 


FISH. 

114.— Fish  Mooloo.       ^ 

Pry  the  fish  and  let  it  cool.  Scrape  a  cocoanut,  put  a  teacupful  of  hot 
water  into  it,  rub  it  well,  strain  it  and  put  aside ;  then  put  two  spoonfuls 
more  of  water ;  strain  this  also;  cut  up  three  or  four  green  chilies,  and 
as  many  onions  as  you  like,  with  half  a  garlic.  Pry  them  with  a  little 
ghee,  and  whilst  frying  put  the  last  straining  of  the  cocoanut  water  in 
with  the  ingredients  till  it  is  dry  ;  then  add  the  first  water  of  the  nut, 
and  pour  the  whole  over  the  fish,  with  some  vinegar,  ginger,  whole 
pepper,  and  salt  to  your  taste. 

115. — Another  Way. 

Ery  in  a  little  ghee  three  or  four  chilies  cut  up,  half  a  clove  of  garlic, 
and  some  sliced  onions.  When  half  fried,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cocoanut  milk,  and  continue  to  fry  until  dry ;  then  stir  into  it  a  tea- 
cupful  of  cocoanut  milk,  a  little  vinegar,  some  sliced  ginger,  pepper- 
corns, and  salt  to  taste,  and  while  hot  pour  it  over  a  cold  fried  or 
boiled  fish. 

116. — Another  Way,  ( 

Cut  up  a  fish  into  small  two-inch  squares,  and  fry  in  ghee,  with  ^z^y 
bread-crumbs,  and  turmeric,  of  a  nice  brown  colour.  Boil  in  cocoanut 
milk  some  sliced  green  ginger  and  sliced  green  chilies;  then  add  the 
fish,  with  salt  to  taste,  and  let  it  stew  until  the  sauce  has  thickened. 
Serve  up  hot. 

117.— Prawn  Cutlet. 

Shell  and  wash  the  prawns ;  remove  the  heads,  but  leave  the  tails  ; 
slit  them  down  in  the  centre,  and  gently  beat  them  flat  with  a  rolling- 
pin;  sprinkle  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  some  finely-minced  soup 
nerbs  ;  rub  theni  over  with  yolk  of  eggs,  and  dredge  with  flour ;  fry  oyer 
a  very  moderate  fire  to  a  rich  light  brown  colour.    Garnish  the  dish 


THE  INDIAN   COOKEUT  BOOK.  39 

with  fried  ^reen  parsley,  or  serve  up  with  tomato  sauce  gravy  as  per 
recipe  No.  300. 

1 18.— Crabs  in  Shell. 

Clean  and  boil  the  crabs  in  salt;  remove  them  out  of  the  shells;  pick 
and  clean  them  well,  and  reserve  the  coral  for  dressing. 
^  Chop  and  mince  fine  the  crabs ;  add  some  onion  and  ginger  juice,  a  little 
lime-juice,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  little  mushroom  catsup.  Melt  some 
butter,  and  fry  the  mixture  in  it  until  the  butter  be  absorbed ;  then  add 
a  little  stock,  and  remove  from  the  fire  immediately  the  stock  begins  to 
dry.  Butter  tlie  shells,  and  fill  with  the  mixture.  The  meat  of  six 
crabs  will  refill  five  shells.  Take  some  finely-sifted  bread-crumbs ;  grind 
down  the  coral,  and  put  it  over  the  mixture  on  the  shells,  with  the  bread- 
crumbs, and  bits  of  butter ;  bake  for  a  few  minutes. 

119.— Tamarind  Fish. 

Make  a  thick  pickle  of  ripe  tamarinds,  good  English  vinegar,  and  a 
little  salt ;  pass  through  a  seive,  rejecting  all  stones  and  fibres.  Select 
really  good  fresh  hilsa  fish,  full  size,  with  roes.  Remove  all  the  scales 
and  fins,  cut  away  the  heads  and  tails,  remove  the  roes,  clean  out  the 
fish  inside,  and  then  slice  up,  an  inch  thick.  Wipe  away  all  blood,  &c., 
with  a  clean  dry  towel.  Care  must  be  taken  to  use  no  water  in  the 
cleaning  of  the  fish  or  in  the  preparation  of  the  pickle.  The  board  on 
which  the  fish  is  cut  up,  and  also  the  knife,  must  be  very  clean.  After 
all  the  blood,  &c.,  has  been  thoroughly  cleaned  and  wiped  away,  lay  out 
the  slices  of  fish  and  roe  on  a  clean  dish,  sprinkle  thickly  with  salt,  and 
place  over  them  a  wire  dish-cover  to  keep  away  the  flies.  Four  or  five 
hours  afterwards  put  a  layer  of  the  pickle  into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  or 
jar,  and  a  thick  coating  of  pickle  over  each  slice  of  fish  and  the  roes,  after 
washing  away  the  salt  with  a  little  vinegar ;  lay  them  in  order  in  the 
jar,  until  the  last  of  the  fish  is  put  in ;  then  be  careful  to  put  in  a  very 
thick  layer  of  the  pickle.  Cork  the  jar  securely,  and  tie  it  down 
with  a  good  bladder  to  keep  it  air-tight,  and  m  three  weeks  it  will  be 
fit  for  use.^  It  is  desirable  to  fill  each  jar  well  up  to  the  mouth,  to  effect 
which  the  jars  or  bottles  to  be  selected  should  be  of  the  required  size. 

N.B.— If  the  fish  be  really  fresh,  all  the  ingredients  of  good  quality, 
and  no  water  be  used  in  the  operation  of  cleaning  and  pickling,  the  jars 
well  filled,  and  mouths  secured  with  sound  bladder,  the  fish  will  keep 
good  for  months,  and  will  be  fit  to  send  home. 

120  -Smoked  Fish. 

The  mango  fish,  beckty,  or  hilsa  should  be  cut  down  the  back,  spread 
open,  and  well  washed  and  salted.  Have  a  bright  charcoal  fire,  and 
sprinkle  over  it  some  bran,  with  brown  sugar ;  cover  the  fire  with  an 
open-work  bamboo  basket,  having  over  it  a  coarse  duster;  arrange  the 
fish  over  the  duster,  and  allow  them  to  smoke.  When  one  side  has 
browned,  turn  and  brown  the  other  side.  As  the  smoke  decreases,  add 
more  bran,  and  fan  up  the  fire.  A  duster  thrown  over  the  fish  wiiilc 
smoking  will  facilitate  the  operation. 


40  THE   INDIAN   COOKE CY   BOOK. 


12 1. —Dried  Prawns. 

Strip  the  prawns  of  their  shells ;  keep  them  for  a  day  in  salt  mixed 
with  turmeric ;  then  string  and  put  them  out  in  the  sun  daily  for  fifteen 
or  twenty  days. 

122.— Prawn  Powder. 

Take  a  seer  of  dry  prawns ;  wash  them  well,  dry  over  tlie  fire  until 
crisp,  pound  fine,  with  some  red  pepper  and  nutmeg,  pass  through  a 
sieve,  and  bottle  for  use.  A  teaspoont'ul  spread  over  bread  and  butter  is 
considered  a  relish. 


JOINTS,     MADE    DISHES,  etc. 

123.— Corned  Round  of  Beef. 

Select  a  good  round  of  beef  four  days  previously  to  its  being  required 
for  the  table,  together  with  two  seers  of  cooking  salt,  eight  fresh  juicy 
limes,  one  anna-worth  of  saltpetre,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  suckur,  a 
description  of  moist  brown  sugar.  Pound  fine  the  saltpetre ;  put  the 
rind  of  four  limes,  pared  fine,  into  a  marble  mortar,  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  brandy  or  other  spirit ;  bruise  and  pound  it  well,  adding  to  it  the 
suckur  or  brown  sugar,  and  gradually  half  the  powdered  saltpetre ;  mix 
all  well  together.  Take  one  seer  of  the  salt,  and  mix  into  it  the  contents 
of  the  marble  mortar ;  divide  the  mixture  into  four  equal  parts,  and  rub 
briskly  one-fourth  part  of  it  into  the  round ;  puncture  the  beef  lightly 
during  the  operation  with  a  clean  bright  steel  sailmaker's  needle,  to 
allow  the  mixture  to  penetrate  more  freely.  An  hour  or  two  after  take 
another  fourth  part  of  the  mixture  ;  squeeze  into  it  the  juice  of  the  four 
limes  from  which  the  rind  had  been  removed,  and  repeat  the  operation 
of  rubbing  it  into  the  round,  puncturing  it  lightly  with  the  needle  ;  turn 
the  beef  over  from  side  to  side  continually,  so  that  one  side  do  not  soak 
or  steep  more  in  the  brine  than  another  ;  repeat  the  operation  of  rubbing 
it  well  several  times  during  the  day.  Next  morning  place  it  on  a  dry 
dish,  and  rub  into  it  another  fourth  part  ^  of  the  prepared  salt ;  let  it 
stand  for  an  hour  or  so,  then  pour  over  it  the  old  brine ;  repeat  the 
rubbing  two  or  three  times  during  the  day,  turning  the  beef  continually. 
On  the  third  day  rub  half  of  the  remaining  saltpetre  into  the  beef  dry,  and 
allow  it  to  stand  for  an  liour  or  two  ;  then  add  the  rest  of  the  saltpetre 
and  the  juice  of  the  four  limes  to  the  remaining  fourth  part  of  the 
mixture,  in  which  keep  turning  and  rubbing  the  beef  during  the  day  as 
before ;  in  the  evening  pour  over  it  the  stale  brine,  cover  it  thickly 
with  the  one  seer  of  remaining  salt,  and  place  a  heavy  weight  upon  it. 
Until  required  to  be  boiled  the  next  day. 

124.— Beef  a  la  Mode. 

Corn  a  round  of  beef  in  every  particular  as  directed  above,  and 
twenty-four  hours  previously  to  its  being  cooked  lard  it  as  follows  with 


THE   INDIAN    COOKERY    BOOK.  4] 

the  undermentioned  ingredients :— Four  pounds  of  lard  or  fat  bacon, 
half  a  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon  powdered,  half  a  seer  or  one  pound  of 
finely-powdered  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves  powdered,  and  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  chutnee  strained  through  muslin.  Mix  the  ground 
pepper,  ground  hot  spices,  and  strained  chutnee  with  a  claret-glassful 
of  mixed  sauces,  such  as  Harvey,  walnut,  Worcestershire,  tap,  tomato, 
&c.  Cut  up  into  long  narrow  slips  the  lard  or  bacon  to  correspond  in 
thickness  with  the  larding-pin,  and  lay  the  slips  into  the  mixture  of 
spices,  sauces,  &c.,  for  an  hour  or  two  before  larding  the  beef,  which 
should  be  larded  through  and  through,  and  as  closely  as  possible. 

Cook  it  the  next  day,  either  in  plain  water,  with  half  a  pint  of  vinegar, 
and  with  bay-leaves  and  peppercorns,  as  is  usual,  or  in  a  preparation  ct 
claret  or  champagne  with  vinegar,  bay-leaves,  &c.  This  is  not  necessan% 
but  it  tends  to  the  improvement  of  the  flavour  at  some  considerable  cost. 

125.— Le  Fricandeau  de  Veau. 

Take  a  large  leg  of  veal ;  remove  the  knuckle-bone ;  corn  and  lard  it 
in  all  respects  like  a  beef  a  la  mode,  reducing  the  ingredients  in  propor- 
tion to  the  difference  in  size  and  weight  between  a  round  of  beef  and 
the  leg  of  veal.  Boil,  baste,  and  glaze  it  well  in  the  liquor  in  which  it  is 
boiled.    Serve  up  with  all  sorts  of  boiled  and  glazed  vegetables. 

126.— Hunter's  Beef,  or  Spiced  Beef. 

Corn  a  round  of  beef,  as  per  recipe  No.  123,  with  the  addition  of  large 
quantities  of   finely-powdered  pepper  and  hot  spices.     Some  of  tho 
pepper  and  spice  should  be  well  rubbed  in  with  the  saltpetre,  and  the  bee*' 
should  be  punctured  well  the  whole  time  with  a  needle  to  insure  tl? 
saltpetre  and  spices  penetrating.     After  the  dry  saltpetre  and  spicy 
have  been  well  rubbed  in,  prepare  a  mixture  of  salt,  saltpetre,  suck^ 
lemon-rind,  pepper,  and  spice,  and  rub  in  one-fourth  of  the  mixture, 
continuing  to  puncture  the  beef.     Add  subsequently  to  the  brine  the 
juice  of  lemon,  and  observe  closely  all  the  instructions  given  in  recipe 
No.  123.  On  the  seventh  day  remove  the  beef  from  the  brine  ;  rub  it  well 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  finely-powdered  spices  and  pepper ;  inclose  ir 
thoroughly  in  skins  of  fat,  and  then  in  a  strong  coarse  pie-crust,  and  bake 
it  in  a  good  oven.    A  baker's  oven  is  the  best. 

127.— Collared  Brisket. 

Bone  a  brisket  of  beef;  rub  into  it  saltpetre,  suckur  or  brown  sugar, 
and  one  seer  of  salt,  with  some  lime-juice ;  keep  it  in  the  brine  for  thirty- 
six  hours,  rubbing  it  continually.  Then  remove  it  from  the  brine,  ai;d 
clear  away  all  the  salt.  Roll  the  beef  tightly  into  a  collar,  secure  it 
well,  inclose  it  in  a  stout  duster,  and  boil  it. 

i28.~Spiced  Collared  Brisket. 

The  process  is  the  same  as  the  above,  but  if  the  beef  be  required  to 
keep  for  any  lengthened  time  the  quantity  of  salt  ought  to  be  doubled, 
the  beef  kept  in  the  brine  for  seventy-two  hours,  and  hot  spices,  pepper. 


i2  THE  INDIAN   COOKEKY  BOOK. 

chuinee,  and  sauces  added.  The  beef  after  being  rolled  should  be  packed 
in  the  skin  of  fat,  then  in  a  coarse  pastry,  instead  of  in  plaintain-leaf, 
and  baked  in  a  baker's  oven. 

129.— Pigeons  with  Petit  Pois, 

Kill  and  feather,  without  plunging  into  hot  water,  four  young,  full- 
grown  pigeons,  taking  care  not  to  break  their  skins  ;  singe  them,  to  destroy 
any  remaining  feathers  ;  then  wash  them  in  three  or  four  cold  waters, 
cut  them  in  halves,  dredge  them  well  with  salt  and  finely- sifted  pepper, 
and  allow  to  remain  for  an  hour.  Then  boil  up  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
ghee  or  lard,  and  fry  the  birds  to  a  rich  brown,  turning  them  over.  When 
sufficiently  browned,  put  in  a  cupful  of  beef  stock,  and  allow  to  simmer 
until  the  birds  are  quite  tender ;  pour  over  them  a  tin  of  petit  pois  with 
their  gravy,  and  serve  up  hot. 

130.— Ducks  with  Green  Olives. 

^  Choose  young,  full-grown,  tender  ducks ;  feather  and  singe  them  as 
directed  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  after  which  wash  them  in  three  or  four 
cold  waters  ;  stuff  the  ducks  according  to  recipe  No.  325,  and  bake  in  a 
deep  dish  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown ;  then  add  a  good  beef  stock 
with  sliced  onions,  and  bake  until  the  stock  is  reduced ;  remove  the 
ducks,  and  put  into  the  pan  the  contents  of  a  bottle  of  olives  stoned,  and 
allow  to  bake  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  to  soften  the  olives  ;  place  the 
ducks  on  a  clean  dish,  arrange  the  olives  round  the  ducks^  and  pour  the 
gravy  over.    Serve  up  hot. 

131.— Kidney  Stew. 

Steep  in  lukewarm  water  for  a  few  minutes  a  dozen  mutton  kidneys, 
and  remove  the  white  skin  or  coat  which  will  become  perceptible  ;  cut 
into  halves  or  quarter  them,  wash  in  three  or  four  waters,  and  allow 
them  to  remain  as  long  as  possible  in  pepper,  salt,  and  the  juice  of 
onions,  ginger,  and  garlic ;  boil  up  three  dessertspoonfuls  of  ghee  or  lard 
in  a  deep  frying-pan,  throw  in  the  kidneys  with  the  juice,  put  in  half  a 
clove  of  garlic,  and  cover  over  the  whole  with  eight  large  Patna  onions 
sHced  each  into  eight  slices,  and  separated  so  as  to  cover  over  the  whole 
surface  of  the  pan ;  pour  over  it  as  much  hot  stock  as  wall  keep  all  the 
onions  under,  and  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  onions  disappear, 
when  serve  up  quite  hot. 

132.— French  Mutton  Chops. 

Take  half  a  dozen  chops  cut  from  a  breast  of  mutton,  throwing  away  the 
intermediate  bones— that  is  to  say,  allow  the  meat  of  two  chops  to 
remain  on  one  bone.  Wash,  dry,  and  steep  the  chops  for  an  hour  or  two 
before  dinner  in  the  juice  of  onions,  ginger,  and  garlic— say  four  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  the  first  to  three  of  the  second  and  two  of  the  last.  Mix 
on  a  large  board  pepper,  salt,  and  flour,  with  which  dredge  the  chops 
thoroughly,  and  fry  quickly  in  boiling  ghee  or  lard,  taking  care  in 
turning  over  and  removing  the  chops  not  to  use  a  fork  or  anything  likely 


THE   INDIAN   COOKERY   BOOE.  43 

to  occasion  any  wound  to  the  chops,  which  should  be  held  by  tlie  bones 
with  a  pair  of  pincers.  Serve  up  hot  immediately  they  have  become  of  a 
good  rich  brown  colour. 

133— Mutton  Stew. 

Cut  up  a  breast  of  mutton  in  the  usual  way  for  a  stew ;  wash  and  dry 
the  meat.  Take  of  the  juice  of  onions  one  tablespoonful,  of  ginger  half 
a  tablespoonful,  and  of  garlic  a  quarter  of  a  tablespoonful ;  mix  with  the 
meat,  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  allow  to  stand  for  any  time  from  one  to 
four  hours. 

Pry  in  a  large  stewpan  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ghee  or  lard,  and  when 
on  the  boil  fry  to  a  nice  brown  all  the  meat  only ;  afterwards  pour  in  the 
liquor  in  which  the  meat  had  been  steeped,  and  allow  to  simmer  for  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes  ;  thicken  some  stock  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and 
add  it  to  the  stew  ;  allow  to  simmer  until  the  meat  is  perfectly  tender 

If  vegetables  be  required  (tlie  addition  of  which,  however,  is  not  con- 
sidered any  improvement),  the  original  gravy,  before  adding  the  stock, 
must  be  removed  and  set  aside. 

Let  the  vegetables,  consisting  of,  say,  potatoes,  carrots,  turnips,  and 
cut-up  and  sliced  cabbage,  after  being  cleaned,  remain  for  an  hour  or  two 
in  cold  water ;  lay  them  over  the  meat,  and  pour  in  hot  stock  sufficient 
to  cover  the  wliole  of  the  meat  and  vegetables,  and  allow  to  simmer  over 
a  brisk  coal  fire  until  quite  tender ;  then  pour  into  the  pot  the  original 
gravy  which  had  been  removed,  and  serve  up  hot. 

Or,  instead  of  the  vegetables  named  above,  take  only  twenty-five  or 
thirty  tamatoes,  in  which  case  the  stock  should  be  lessened,  as  the  tomatoes 
produce  a  large  amount  of  liquid,  and  do  not  require  as  much  boiling  as 
the  harder  vegetables. 

134.— Mutton  Brains  and  Love  Apples. 

Take  six  brains,  sixteen  to  twenty  large  tomatoes,  two  chittacks  or  four 
ounces  of  butter,  and  eight  biscuits.  Wash  the  brains  well ;  clean,  boil, 
and  halve,  or  cut  each  into  three  pieces ;  thoroughly  butter  the  dish 
which  will  be  put  on  the  table ;  dredge  it  well  with  finely-powdered 
biscuit ;  lay  in  the  brains ;  cut  the  tomatoes,  and  lay  them  in  the  dish 
between  the  brains,  the  cut  ends  upwards;  add  asmall  cupful  of  good  stock, 
and,  after  sprinkling  a  sufficient  quantity  of  pepper  and  salt  as  a  seasoning, 
dredge  thickly  over  with  the  ground  biscuit-powder,  and  bake  of  a  rich 
brown.    Serve  up  hot. 

135.— Kid  Roasted  Whole. 

Bespeak  from  a  butcher  a  whole  kid,  with  its  head  on. 

Prepare  a  stuffing  as  per  recipe  No.  323  or  325,  and  after  cleaning  the 
kid,  stuff  into  it  the  stuffing ;  break  the  joints  of  the  legs,  and  fold  and 
truss  them  like  a  pig ;  then  put  it  up  to  roast,  basting  it  the  whole 
time  with  beef  suet  melted  down,  to  which  add  hot  water  and  salt. 
Serve  up  in  a  sitting  posture  like  a  pig,  and  with  a  lime  in  the 
mouth. 


4A  THE   INDIAN   COOKERY   BCC2 


156. — Potato  Pie, 

^  Boil  and  masli  down  some  potatoes,  with  pepper,  salt,  milk,  and  butter ; 
line  a  pie-dish  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  with  the  mash ;  arrange 
in  it  a  nicely-browned  mutton,  beef,  or  chicken  stew,  cover  it  over 
with  a  thick  coat  of  the  mashed  potatoes,  and  bake  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour. 

137.— Minced  Veal  Potato  Pie. 

^  Make  a  good  rich  veal  mince,  mixed  with  a  little  ham,  and  some 
sippets  of  bread-crumb  cut  into  small  squares,  diamonds,  &c.,  and  fried 
in  butter  ;  line  the  pie-dish  with  mashed  potatoes  as  above  directed  ;  fill 
into  it  the  veal  mince,  with  plenty  of  gravy  ;  arrange  the  sippets,  cover 
over  with  a  thick  crust  of  the  mashed  potatoes,  and  bake  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour. 

138.— Beef  Steak  and  Pigeon  Pie. 

This  should  consist  of  a  slice  of  good  steak,  two  pounds  of  beef,  one 
chittack  or  tw^o  ounces  of  ghee,  a  teaspoonfui  of  salt,  two  fresh  limes, 
four  young  pigeons,  tw^elve  oysters,  twelve  curry  onions  cut  lengthways 
into  fine  slices,  a  teaspoonfui  of  ground  pepper,  some  sweet  herbs,  and  a 
dessertspoonful  of  flour. 

Cut  up  the  steak  into  pieces  three  inches  long,  and  two  inches  or  two 
and  a  half  wide,  by  half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  and  divide  each  pigeon  into 
four  pieces  ;  put  up  two  pounds  of  beef  with  sufficient  water  to  make  a 
good  strong  gravy,  tlirowing  in  all  the  scraggy  parts  and  other  rejections 
of  the  steak  and  pigeons.  Warm  the  ghee,  and  fry  in  it  the  sliced 
onions ;  throw  in,  well  dredged  with  the  flour,  the  steaks  and  pigeons, 
and  after  frying  a  while  add  the  pepper,  salt,  soup  herbs,  and  some  of  the 
rind  of  the  limes,  and  about  half  the  beef  gravy.  Set  the  whole  on  a  slow 
fire,  and  simmer  until  the  meat  is  tender ;  allow  to  cool ;  then  add  the 
oysters  and  the  remaining  gravy,  with  the  juice  of  two  limes  ;  put  into 
a  dish  lined  with  pastry,  cover  over  the  whole  with  a  pastry  crust,  and 
bake. 

139 —Veal  Pie. 

Cut  a  leg  of  veal  into  small  pieces,  or  a  breast  into  chops,  and  parboil 
in  water  enough  to  fill  the  pie-dish.  When  about  half  stewed  take  the 
veal  out ;  season  the  gravy  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  mace,  and  a  little 
bacon;  dredge  in  a  little  flour;  line  the  sides  of  the  dish  with  a  pie- 
crust ;  arrange  the  meat,  pour  in  the  gravy,  cover  it  with  a  pie-crust, 
and  bake  it  for  an  hour. 

140.— Macaroni  Pie. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  (recipe  No.  218) ;  boil  and  throw  away 
the  first  water ;  then  boil  it  again  in  some  milk,  and  remove  when 
it  is  quite  tender.  Prepare  a  strong  gravy  or  soup  with  two  pounds 
of  beef,  well  seasoned  with  ground  white  pepper,  salt,  and  soup  herbs. 

Bruise  into  fine  powder  two  ounces  of  some  good  English  cheese ;  take 
a  dessertspoonful  of  very  dry  mustard,  half  a  teaspoonfui  of  very  finely 
powdered  white   pepper,  about   two   teaspoonfuls  of   salt,  and  two 


THE   INDIAN    COOK  Ell  Y   LOOK.  4  J 

chittacks  or  four  ounces  of  butter.    Pound  very  fine  a  couple  of  crisp 
biscuits. 

Pour  over  the  boiled  macaroni  sufficient  beef  gravy  or  stock  to  entirely 
cover  it;  then  put  in  all  the  pepper,  salt,  and  mustard,  but  only  half  the 
ground  cheese.  Set  it  to  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  gravy  begins 
to  dry,  and  the  macaroni  acquires  some  consistency.  Then  with  three 
ounces  of  butter  (free  of  water)  butter  well  the  baking-dish ;  pou  rinto 
it  the  macaroni ;  mix  the  remaining  ground  cheese  with  the  powdered 
biscuit,  and  strew  it  over  the  pie  ;  cut  into  small  pieces  the  remaining 
ounce  of  butter,  and  throw  that  also  over  the  pie;  then  put  the  dish 
into  an  oven,  and  bake  to  a  fine  light  but  rich  brown  colour.  Ten  to 
fifteen  minutes'  baking  will  be  sufficient. 

141.— Alderman's  Mock  Turtle  Pie. 

Make  an  extra  rich  hash  of  a  calf's  head,  cutting  the  pieces  from  the 
cheeks  two  and  a  half  to  three  inches  long,  and  one  and  three-quarters 
to  two  inches  wide.  Slice  the  tongue,  and  cut  into  large-sized  shapes. 
Prepare  brain  cakes,  and  plenty  of  forcemeat  and  egg  balls  as  per  recipes 
Nos.  289  to  295. 

Make  an  extra  strong  stock  with  eight  calves'  feet ;  season  it  highljr 
with  soup  herbs,  salt,  and  plenty  of  ground  black  pepper ;  simmer  nntd 
^he  meat  begins  to  drop  away  from  the  bones  ;  strain  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  in  order  to  get  a  very  thick  stock,  passing  as  much  of  the  dissolved 
meat  through  as  possible. 

Line  a  deep  pie- dish  with  a  thick  and  rich  pie-pastry,  and  arrange  in  it 
the  hash,  egg  and  meat  balls,  and  brain  cakes,  with  some  twenty  or 
thirty  green  leaves  of  spinach,  cut  up  to  about  the  size  and  shape  of  the 
meat.  Pour  over  the  whole  as  much  stock  as  will  fill  the  dish,  cover 
over  with  pastry,  and  bake. 

142.— Sance  for  Alderman's  Mock  Turtle  Pie. 

Mix  with  some  of  the  stock  the  contents  of  a  canister  of  oysters  well 
bruised,  the  pulp  of  sixteen  or  twenty  pruiies,  a  blade  of  mace,  some 
nutmeg  and  cloves,  a  wineglassful  of  port  wine,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce;  allow  to  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  and  add  it  to 
the  ready-baked  pie  before  it  is  put  on  the  table. 

143— Friar  Tuck's  Mock  Venison  Pastry  Pie. 

Take  the  chop  ends  of  two  large  fat  breasts  of  mutton ;  remove  the 
bones,  and  after  the  meat  has  been  washed,  cleaned,  and  dried,  lard  well 
with  narrow  slips  of  lean  bacon  and  corned  tongue ;  then  cut  it  up  into 
twelve  well-shaped  chops  nicely  trimmed ;  steep  them  in  the  juice  of 
onions,  ginger,  and  garlic  in  the  proportion  of  one  tablespoonful  of  the 
former  to  a  dessertspoonful  of  the  latter,  and  half  a  teaspoouful  of  the 
last. 

Make  a  strong  broth  or  stock  of  the  other  side  of  the  mutton,  and  all 
the  rejections  of  bones,  &c. ;  season  it  well  with  pepper,  salt,  and  soup 
herbs;  remove  the  scum  and  cut  away  all  the  fat;  then  strain  ihroiiiiii  a 
sieve,  rejecting  all  the  fat,  but  passing  through  some  of  the  lean ;  allow 


46  THE  INDIAN   COOKEEY   BOOK. 

it  to  simmer  until  it  thickens,  then  add  to  it  two  blades  of  mace,  half  a 
dozen  allspice,  and  as  many  small  sticks  of  cinnamon. 

Line  a  deep  metal  pie-dish  with  the  pastry  pie-crust  as  per  recipe  No. 
200,  reserving  sufficient  for  the  upper  crust.  Prepare  a  sausage  roll, 
say  six  inches  long,  and  two  inches  and  a  quarter  thick,  of  minced  veal 
and  udder,  using  the  ordinary  pie-crust  pastry  to  inclose  it  in ;  then 
slice  it  into  twelve  equal  slices  of  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch. 

Remove  the  twelve  chops  out  of  the  onion,  garlic,  and  ginger  juice ; 
dredge  them  well  with  finely-sifted  flour  mixed  with  pepper  and  salt ; 
heat  in  a  large  deep  frying-pan  four  tablespoonfuls  of  lard ;  fry  the  chops 
of  a  light  brown  colour,  and  remove  them  carefully ;  then  dredge  with 
flour  and  slightly  brown  the  twelve  slices  of  sausage,  six  of  which  lay  at 
the  bottom  of  the  pie-dish  ;  lay  over  them  six  of  the  mutton  chops ;  over 
the  mutton  chops  place  another  layer  of  the  sliced  sausage  roll,  ana  over 
that  the  remaining  six  chops  ;  pour  in  as  much  of  the  stock  or  gravy  as 
will  fill  the  pie-dish,  cover  it  over  with  a  layer  of  the  pastry  as  per  recipe 
No.  200,  and  bake  carefully. 

144. —Sauce  for  Friar  Tuck's  Mock  Venison 
Pastry  Pie. 

Put  some  of'  the  stock  or  gravy  into  the  pan  in  which  the  chops  and 
sliced  sausages  had  been  browned ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  bruised 
and  powdered  oysters,  and  simmer  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Serve 
hot,  on  the  pie  being  cut,  adding  at  the  last  moment  a  wineglassful  of  port 
wine  and  one  tablespoonful  of  lime-juice. 

Make  a  hole  in  the  centre  of  the  pie  through  the  crusts,  and  pour  in 
the  sauce  with  the  help  of  a  lipped  sauce-boat. 

145— Leg  of  Mutton  Dumpling. 

Prepare  a  good  pie-crust  with  one  seer  and  a  quarter  of  soojee,  half  a 
seer  of  flour,  and  half  a  seer  of  suet,  as  per  recipe  No.  199. 

Clean  and  trim  the  leg,  cutting  away  the  end  of  the  knuckle-bone,  and 
any  other  projections  likely  to  injure  the  dumpling.  Si)rinkle  it  well 
with  ground  pepper  and  some  salt,  and  confine  it  securely  in  the  pastry, 
closing  all  joinings  with  the  aid  of  a  little  water.  Place^  the  dumpling 
into  a  strong  napkin,  previously  buttered  and  dredged  with  flower ;  tie 
it  securely,  and  allow  it  to  boil  from  three  to  four  hours.  Care  must  be 
taken  that  during  the  whole  process  of  boiling  the  dumpling  remains 
suspended  in  the  water,  and  not  resting  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  On 
removing  it  from  the  boiler,  plunge  it  immediately  into  a  large  tureen  of 
cold  water  for  two  or  three  minutes.  This  will  strengthen  the  pastry 
and  prevent  its  bursting  or  breaking  while  it  is  being  served  up. 

146.— -Sausage  Rolls. 

Take  equal  portions  of  cold  roast  veal  and  ham,  or  cold  fowl  and 
tongue ;  chop  them  together  very  small ;  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  sweet  herbs,  and  a  spoonful  of  mixed  salt  and  cayenne  pepper ; 
mix  well  together.  Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  the  meat  well  rolled 
together  into  enough  pastry  (pie-crust  recipe  No.  199)  to  cover  it. 


7^ 


THE  INDIAK  COOKERY  BOOK.  i7 

When  you  have  used  up  the  whole  of  your  materials,  bake  them  for  half  an 
hour  in  a  brisk  oven.  These  rolls  are  excellent  eating,  either  hot  or 
cold,  and  are  especially  adapted  for  travelling,  gipsy,  boating,  or  pic-nic 
parties. 

147.— Dumpode  Goose  (Indian  Way). 

Take  a  good  fat  tender  goose ;  feather,  clean,  and  bone  it  carefully 
without  destroying  the  skin ;  when  every  bone  has  been  removed,  pour 
into  the  goose  a  mixture  composed  of  a  dessertspoonful  each  of  mustard, 
sweet  oil,  and  mixed  sauces. 

Take  all  the  bones  and  the  giblet,  the  liver  excepted,  and  make  a  good 
gravy  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  soup  herbs,  and  bay -leaves.  Mince  very 
fine  three  pounds  of  beef,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  fat  bacon,  and  the  liver  of  the  goose.  Take  of  chopped 
garden  herbs  a  tablespoonful,  powdered  black  pepper  a  dessertspoonful, 
mixed  hot  spices  finely  powdered  a  dessertspoonful,  finely-grated  bread- 
crumbs two  tablespoonfuls,  salt  a  dessertspoonful,  and  essence  of  an- 
chovies, if  liked,  one  teaspoonful.  Mix  the  above  well  together,  and 
stuff  the  goose. 

Melt  two  chittacks^  and  a  half  or  five  ounces  of  ghee ;  put  in  the 
^oose,  and  pour  over  it  the  soup  made  of  the  bones  and  giblet,  and  allow 
it  to  stew  until  quite  tender  ;  then  glace  the  goose,  as  also  some  boiled 
turnips,  carrots,  onions,  and  potatoes,  and  serve  up  hot,  surrounded  with 
the  vegetables  and  some  English  pickles. 

148.— Dumpode  Duck  (Eastern  Way). 

Take  a  good  fat  duck  ;  feather,  clean,  and  bone  it  without  hurting  the 
skin ;  pour  into  it  a  mixture  made  up  of  a  teaspoonful  each  of  mustard, 
sweet  oil,  and  mixed  sauce. 

Make  a  gravy  of  the  bones  and  giblet,  seasoning  it  with  pepper,  salt, 
soup  herbs,  and  a  few  bay -leaves. 

Mince  together  with  the  liver  of  the  duck  two  pounds  and  a  half  of 
good  beef,  half  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  a  dessertspoonful  of  chopped 
garden  herbs,  a  tablespoonful  of  grated  bread-crumbs,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  mixed  hot  spices  pounded,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  black  pepper  and 
salt,  and,  for  those  who  like  it,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  an- 
chovies. Mix  these  well  together,  and  stuff  the  duck.  Melt  one  chittack 
and  a  half  or  three  ounces  of  ghee ;  put  in  the  duck ;  pour  over  it  the 
giblet  gravy,  and  allow  it  to  cook  until  tender;  then  glace  the  duck,  as 
also  some  ready -boiled  mixed  vegetables,  and  serve  up,  surrounding  the 
duck  with  the  vegetables  and  some  hot  West-Indian  pickle. 

149. —Fowl  a  la  Cardinal,  or  Dumpode  Capon 
or  Fowl. 

Feather  the  bird,  clean  it,  and  remove  every  bone  very  carefully  without 
injuring  the  skin. 

Make  a  good  strong  broth  or  gravy  of  the  bone  and  giblet,  reserving 
the  liver. 

Pour  into  the  bird  a  mixture  of  sweet  oil,  mustard,  aad  sauces  iu  the 
proportion  of  one  teaspooniul  of  each. 


48  THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK. 

Mince  the  liver  together  with  one  pound  and  a  hah^  of  good  beef,  one 
pound  and  a  half  of  beef  suet,  a  dessertspoonful  each  of  finely-chopped 
garden  herbs  and  finely-grated  bread-crumbs,  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
powdered  mixed  hot  spices,  finely-powdered  black  pepper,  and  salt,  if 
liked,  and  half  a  dozen  oysters.  Mix  all  well  together,  and  stuff  the 
bird;  melt  two  chittacks  or  four  ounces  of  ghee,  add  to  it  the  giblet 
gravy,  cook  and  glace  the  bird  in  it,  as  also  some  vegetables,  and  serve 
up  hot,  adding  a  little  cayenne  pepper  to  the  gravy  to  make  it  piquant 

150.— Brisket  of  Beef  Trambland, 

Heat  or  melt  in  a  saucepan  two  chittacks  of  butter  free  of  water; 
fry  to  a  light  brown  a  tablespoonful  of  finely-sliced  onions,  then  add  a 
tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  flour,  which  must  be  put  in  very  gradually, 
stirring  the  whole  time  ;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  pepper,  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  When  these  have  been  well  mixed,  pour  in 
gradually  a  large  cupful  of  pure  milk,  and  lastly  two  wlneglassfuls  of 
vinegar.  Keep  stirring  to  prevent  the  sauce  lumping,  Mince  fine  half  a 
dozen  i)ickled  gherkins  or  Eiench  beans,  and  mince  up  also  the  yolks 
and  whites  of  six  hard-boiled  eggs.  Boil  a  fresh  brisket  of  beef,  and 
dish  up  quite  hot.  Pour  over  it  the  sauce,  over  which  sprinkle  the 
minced  pickle,  and  then  cover  the  whole  with  the  minced  eggs. 

151.— Mutton  Trambland 

Is  prepared,  in  all  respects,  as  the  above.  The  joint  best  adapted  to 
"  trambland  "  is  a  fore-quarter,  or  only  the  shoulder,  or  the  breast  if  re- 
quired for  a  small  party  of  two  or  three. 


d 


>. 


i52.~Bubble  and  Squeak. 

Put  into  a  pot  cold  meat  cut  into  thin  slices  two  inches  square,  with 
ready-boiled  peas,  cauliflower,  cabbage,  potatoes,  turnips,  and  carrots  cut 
u}3,  w^ith  pepper,  salt,  and  sliced  ginger,  and  with  as  much  good  stock  as 
will  cover  the  meat  and  vegetables  ;  allow  the  whole  to  simmer  until  the 
meat  and  vegetables  have  absorbed  half  the  stock,  when  it  will  be  ready. 
Serve  it  up  bubbling  and  squeaking, 

153— To  Stew  a  Fillet  of  Veal. 

Bone,  lard,  and  stuff  a  fillet  of  veal ;  half  roast,  and  then  stew  it  with 
two  quarts  of  white  stock,  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  and  one  of 
mushroom  catsup.  Before  serving,  strain  the  gravy ;  thicken  it  with 
butter  rolled  in  flour ;  add  a  little  cayenne,  salt,  and  some  pickled  mush- 
rooms ;  heat  it,  and  pour  it  over  the  veal.  Have  ready  two  or  three 
dozens  of  forcemeat  balls  to  put  round  it  and  upon  the  top.  Garnish 
With  cut  lemon. 

154.— Veal  Cutlets. 

Cut  a  neck  of  veal  into  cutlets,  or  take  them  off  a  leg.  Season  two 
well-beaten  eggs  with  pounded  mace,  nutmeg,  salt,  pepper,  and  finely- 
chopped  sweet  marjoram,  lemon,  thyme,  and  parsley;  dip  the  cutlets 


THE  INDIAN  COOKER!   BOOK.  4d 

Into  it ;  sift  over  them  grated  bread,  and  fry  them  in  clarified  butter. 
Serve  with  a  white  sauce,  forcemeat  balls,  and  small  mushrooms. 
Garnish  with  fried  parsley. 

155— Kidney  Toasts. 

Pound,  in  a  marble  mortar,  the  kidney  and  the  surrounding  fat ;  sea- 
son with  pepper,  salt,  grated  lemon-peel,  and  nutmeg ;  mix  with  it  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  well  beaten ;  lay  it  upon  thin  toasted  bread  cut  into 
square  bits ;  put  a  little  butter  into  a  dish,  lay  in  it  the  kidney  toasts, 
and  brown  them  in  an  oven.    Serve  them  very  hot, 

156.— Rolled  Mutton. 

Bone  a  shoulder  of  mutton  carefully,  so  as  not  to  injure  the  skin ;  cut 
all  the  meat  from  the  skin,  mince  it  small,  and  season  it  highly  with 
pepper,  nutmeg,  and  a  clove,  some  parsley,  lemon,  thyme,  sweet  mar- 
joram chopped,  and  a  pounded  onion,  all  well  mixed,  together  with  the 
well -beaten  yolk  of  an  egg;  roll  it  up  very  tightly  in  the  skin;  tie  it 
round,  and  bake  it  in  an  oven  for  two  or  three  hours,  according  to  the 
size  of  the  mutton.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  bones  and  parings  ;  season 
with  an  onion,  pepper,  and  salt ;  strain  and  thicken  it  with  flour  and 
butter;  add  a  tablespoonful  each  of  vinegar,  mushroom  catsup,  soy, 
and  lemon  pickle,  and  a  teacupful  of  port  wine ;  garnish  with  force- 
meat balls  made  of  grated  bread,  and  part  of  the  mince. 

157.— Haggis. 

Wash  and  clean  the  heart  and  lights ;  parboil  and  mince  them  very 
small ;  add  one  pound  of  minced  suet,  two  or  three  large  onions  minced, 
and  two  small  handfals  of  oatmeal ;  season  highly  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  mix  all  well  together  :  the  bag  being  perfectly  clean  and^  sweet,  put 
in  the  ingredients;  press  out  the  air,  sew  it  up,  and  boil  it  for  three 
hours. 

158.— To  Boil  Marrow-bones. 

Saw  them  even  at  the  bottom ;  butter  and  flour  some  bits  of  linen,  and 
tie  a  piece  over  the  top  of  each  bone ;  boil  them  for  an  hour  or  two  ; 
take  off  the  linen,  and  serve  them  with  thin  slices  of  dry  toast  cut  into 
square  bits.  At  table  the  marrow  should  be  put  upon  the  toast,  and  a 
little  pepper  and  salt  sprinkled  over  it. 

159.— Beef  or  Mutton  Baked  with  Potatoes, 

Boil  some  potatoes ;  peel  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  one  or  two 
small  onions ;  moisten  them  with  milk  and  an  egg  beaten  up  ;  add  a  little 
salt  and  pepper.  Season  slices  of  beef  or  mutton  chops  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  more  onion,  if  the  flavour  is  approved ;  rub  the  bottom  of  a 
pudding-dish  with  butter,  and  put  in  a  layer  of  the  mashed  potatoes,  which 
should  be  as  thick  as  a  batter,  and  then  a  layer  of  meat,  and  so  on 
alternately,  till  the  dish  is  filled,  ending  with  potatoes.  Bake  in  an  oven 
for  one  kour. 


50  THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK. 


i6o.— Olive  Royals. 

Boil  one  pound  of  potatoes,  and  when  nearly  cold  rub  them  perfectlj 
smooth  with  four  ounces  of  flour  and  one  ounce  of  butter;  knead  all 
together  till  it  becomes  a  paste ;  roll  it  out  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  cut  it  into  rounds,  and  lay  upon  one  side  any  sort  of  cold  roasted 
meat  cut  into  thin  small  bits,  and  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt ;  put  a 
small  bit  of  butter  over  the  meat ;  wet  the  edges  of  the  paste,  and  close 
it  in  the  form  of  half-circles.  JFry  them  in  boiling  fresh  dripping  till  of  a 
light  brown  colour ;  lay  them  before  the  fire,  on  the  back  of  a  sieve,  to 
drain.  Serve  them  with  or  without  gravy  in  the  dish.  For  a  change, 
mince  the  meat,  and  season  it  as  before  directed.  The  potatoes  should 
be  very  mealy. 

i6i.— To  Boil  Ox-Cheek. 

Wash  half  a  head  very  clean ;  let  it  lie  in  cold  water  for  some  hours  ; 
break  the  bone  in  two,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  flesh  ;  put  it  into  a 
pot  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  from  two  to  three  hours  ;  take  out 
the  bone.  Serve  it  with  boiled  carrots  and  turnips.  The  liquor  in  which 
the  head  has  been  boiled  may  be  strained^  and  made  into  barley  broth. 

162.— To  Stew  Ox-Cheek. 

Clean  the  head  as  before  directed,  and  parboil  it ;  take  out  the  bone ; 
stew  it  in  part  of  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled,  thickened  with  a 
piece  of  butter  mixed  with  flour,  and  browned.  Cut  into  dice,  or  into 
any  fancy  shape,  as  many  carrots  and  turnips  as  will  fill  a  pint  basin. 
Mince  two  or  three  onions,  add  the  vegetables,  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Cover  the  pan  closely,  and  stew  it  two  hours.  A  little  before 
serving,  add  a  glassful  of  port  wine. 

163.— Dressed  Ox-Cheek. 

Prepare  it  as  directed  for  stewing ;  cut  the  meat  into  square  pieces ; 
make  a  sauce  with  a  quart  of  good  gravy,  thickened  with  butter  mixed 
with  flour ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  cayenne,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar;  put  in  the  head,  and  simmer  it  till  quite  tender. 
A  few  minutes  before  serving  add  a  little  catsup  or  white  wine.  Eorce- 
meat  balls  may  be  added. 

164.— Potted  Ox-Cheek 

May  be  made  of  the  meat  that  is  left  from  any  one  of  the  above  dishes. 
It  is  cut  into  small  bits,  and  heated  uf)  with  a  little  of  the  liquor  in 
which  the  cheek  was  boiled,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  a 
little  vinegar,  then  put  into  a  mould,  and  turned  out  when  required  for 
use.  It  is  used  for  supper  or  luncheon,  and  is  eaten  with  mustard  and 
vinegar. 

165.— Breasts  of  Mutton  a  la  Ste.  Menoult. 

Stew  them  with  carrots,  onions,  and  spices  in  gravy,  and  when  done 
drain  them  and  take  out  the  bones ;  flatten  the  meat  between  two  dishes^ 


THE  INDIAN   COOKEKY  BOOK.  61 

and  when  cold  cut  it  into  the  form  of  cutlets  or  hearts ;  brush  them 
with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg ;  roll  them  in  grated  bread,  then  in 
clarified  butter,  and  again  in  the  grated  bread.  Bake  them  in  an  oven 
till  of  a  fine  brown  colour,  and  serve  them  with  an  Italian  or  any 
other  sauce. 

1 66. —To  Cure  Mutton  Ham. 

Cut  a  hind  quarter  of  good  mutton  into  the  shape  of  a  ham ;  pound  one 
ounce  of  saltpetre,  with  one  pound  of  coarse  salt  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  brown  sugar  ;  rub  the  ham  well  with  this  mixture,  taking  care 
to  stuff  the  hole  of  the  shank  well  with  salt  and  sugar,  and  let  it  lie  a 
fortnight,  rubbing  it  well  with  the  pickle  every  two  or  three  days  ;  then 
take  it  out  and  press  it  with  a  weight  for  one  day ;  smoke  it  with  saw- 
dust for  ten  or  fifteen  days,  or  hang  it  to  dry  in  the  kitchen.  If  the  ham 
is  to  be  boiled  soon  after  it  has  been  smoked,  soak  it  one  hour ;  and  if  it 
has  been  smoked  any  length  of  time,  it  will  require  to  be  soaked  several 
hours.  Put  it  on  in  cold  water  and  boil  it  gently  two  hours.  It  is  eaten 
cold  at  breakfast,  luncheon,  or  supper.  A  mutton  ham  is  sometimes 
cured  with  the  above  quantity  of  salt  and  sugar,  with  the  addition  of 
half  an  ounce  of  pepper,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves,  and  one 
nutmeg. 

167.— Meat  or  Birds  in  Jelly. 

Clean  the  meat  or  the  bird  or  birds ;  fully  roast,  bake,  or  stew  in  the 
usual  way. 

Place  the  meat  in  the  mould,  or  if  birds,  arrange  theni  with  their 
breasts  downwards ;  fill  the  mould  quite  full  with  the  jelly,  recipe 
No.  329 ;  set  it  to  cool  till  the  next  day ;  then  turn  it  on  a  dish,  breasts 
upwards.  Garnish  the  dish  with  curled  parsley,  and  some  of  the  jelly 
cut  fine,  and  sprinkled  about. 

If  the  jelly  be  clear,  it  will  form  a  handsome  side-dish  for  dinner  or 
supper. 

168.— Pigeons  in  Savoury  Jelly. 

Bone  six  pigeons ;  remove  the  heads  and  feet,  stuff  with  sausage- 
meat,  and  roast ;  lay  the  pigeons  in  a  mould  with  the  breasts  down;  iilJ 
up  the  mould  with  jelly,  recipe  No.  329 ;  and  when  cold,  turn  out. 
Garnish  with  parsley,  and  some  of  the  jelly  cut  fine,  and  sprinkled  round 
the  dish. 


E  2 


5i  THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  B003L 


VEGETABLES. 

All  vegetables  should  be  boiled  quickly,  and,  with  the  exception  of 
spinach,  in  an  open  vessel,  skimming  them  carefully. 

Herbs  of  all  sorts  should  be  gathered  when  in  flower,  and  on  a  dry 
day,  and,  being  well  cleaned  from  dust  and  dirt,  tied  up  in  small 
bunches  and  dried  before  the .  fire.  They  may  then  be  kept  in  paper 
bags  labelled ;  or  rubbed  to  a  powder,  sifted,  and  put  into  bottles  and 
labelled. 

169.— To  Boil  Potatoes. 

Wash  and  pare  them,  throwing  them  into  cold  water  as  they  are 
pared;  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  cover  them  with  cold  water,  and 
throw  in  a  little  salt ;  cover  the  saucepan  closely,  and  let  them  boil 
quickly  for  half  an  hour ;  pour  off  the  water  immediately,  and  set  the  pau 
by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  dry  the  potatoes. 

170. — Another  Way. 

Wash  them  very  clean,  put  them  on  in  cold  water,  cover  the  saucepan, 
and  let  them  boil  quickly ;  as  soon  as  the  water  boils  pour  it  ofP,  and 
cover  them  with  cold  water  ;  add  a  little  salt,  and  when  the  water  boils 
pour  it  off  instantly,  when  the  potatoes  will  be  sufficiently  done ;  dry 
them,  and  take  off  the  skins  before  serving. 

171.— To  Broil  Boiled  Potatoes. 

After  boiling  potatoes  not  quite  sufficiently  to  send  to  table,  put  them 
on  a  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  and  turn  them  frequently  till  they  are  of 
a  nice  brown  colour  all  over ;  serve  them  hot ;  take  care  they  do  not 
become  too  hard,  as  that  spoHs  the  flavour. 

172.— To  Brown  Potatoes  under  Meat  while  Roasting. 

After  being  boiled,  lay  them  on  a  dish,  and  ^lace  it  in  the  dripping- 
pan  ;  baste  them  now  and  then  with  a  httle  of  the  meat  dripping,  and 
when  one  side  is  browned  turn  the  other;  they  should  all  be  of  aa 
equal  colour. 

173.— Potato  Ribbons. 

Wash  four  or  five  large  potatoes,  scrape  them,  and  cut  them  into  thin 
strips  round  and  round,  keeping  as  nearly  to  one  width  as  possible; 
throw  them  into  cold  water  as  they  are  cut,  and  then  fry  them  of  a  light 
brown,  in  very  hot  or  boiling  beef  dripping ;  strew  over  them  a  little  salt 
and  pepper,  and  before  serving,  drain  them  upon  a  dish  turned  up  before 
the  fire. 

174.— To  Boil  Turnips. 

Wasn,  pare,  and  throw  'them  into  cold  water ;  put  them  on  in  boiling 
water  with  a  little  salt,  and  boil  them  from  two  hours  to  two  and  a  half; 


THE  INDIAN   COOKEllY  BOOK.  53 

drain  them  in  a  colander,  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  and,  mixing  in  a  bit 
of  butter,  with  a  beater  mash  them  very  smoothly ;  add  half  a  pint  of 
milk,  mix  it  well  with  the  turnips,  and  make  them  quite  hot  before 
serving.  If  they  are  to  be  served  plain,  dish  them  as  soon  as  the  water 
is  drained  off. 

175.— To  Dress  Young  Turnips. 

Wash,  peel,  and  boil  them  till  tender  in  water  with  a  little  salt ;  serve 
them  with  melted  butter  poured  over  them.    Or, 

They  may  be  stewed  in  a  pint  of  milk  thickened  with  a  bit  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  served  with  the 
sauce. 

176.— To  Boil  Spinach. 

Pick  it  very  carefully,  and  wash  it  thoroughly  two  or  three  times  in 
plenty  of  cold  water ;  then  put  it  on  in  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt ; 
let  it  boil  nearly  twenty  minutes  ;  put  it  into  a  colander,  hold  it  under 
the  water-cock,  and  let  the  water  run  on  it  for  a  minute;  put  it  into  a 
saucepan,  beat  it  perfectly  smooth  with  a  beater  or  wooden  spoon,  add  a 
bit  of  butter  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  mix  it  well  together, 
and  make  it  hot  before  serving.  When  dished,  it  is  scored  in  squares 
with  the  back  of  a  knife. 

177. — Another  Way, 

After  being  nicely  picked  and  well  washed,  put  it  into  a  saucepan, 
with  no  more  water  than  adheres  to  it ;  add  a  little  salt ;  cover  the  pan 
closely,  and  boil  it  till  tender,  frequently  shaking  it ;  beat  it  quite 
smooth,  adding  butter  and  cream,  and  make  it  quite  hot.  Spinach  may 
be  served  with  poached  eggs,  or  fried  sausages  laid  on  it. 

When  the  spinach  is  bitter,  it  is  preferable  to  boil  it  in  water. 

178.— To  Boil  Cauliflowers. 

^  Trim  them  neatly,  and  let  them  lie  an  hour  or  two  in  cold  water ;  then 
rinse  them  in  fresh  cold  water,  and  put  them  with  a  very  little  salt  into 
boiling  water  ;  boil  them  twenty  minutes,  or  half  an  hour  if  very  large. 
They  may  be  boiled  in  milk  and  water,  and  require  to  be  skimmed  with 
particular  attention. 

179.— To  Boil  French  Beans. 

Cut  off  the  stalk  and  string  them  ;  if  not  very  young,  cut  them  in  four, 
or  into  very  thin  slices  ;  put  them  into  water  as  they  are  done,  and  put 
them  on  in  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt,  and  let  them  boil  for  half  an 
hour.  If  they  are  old  they  will  require  a  longer  time  to  boil.  Melted 
butter  in  a  sauce-tureen  is  served  with  them. 

180.— To  Boil  Asparagus. 

Wash  them  well,  scrape,  and  tie  them  up  in  small  bundles ;  cut  them 
all  even  at  the  bottom,  and  as  they  are  done  put  them  into  cold  water  ; 
put  them  on  in  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt,  and  let  them  boil  twenty 


54  THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK. 

or  twenty-five  minutes  ;  take  them  up,  lay  them  upon  a  slice  of  toasted 
bread  cut  in  four,  and  the  crusts  pared  off,  with  the  tops  meeting  in  the 
iTiiddle  of  the  dish,  and  cut  off  the  strings. 

i8i. — Asparagus  a  la  Francais. 

Boil  it,  and  chop  small  the  heads  and  tender  parts  of  the  stalks, 
3«:ether  with  a  boiled  onion ;  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  the  beaten 
yolk  of  an  egg ;  heat  it  up.    Serve  it  on  sippets  of  toasted  bread,  and 
pour  over  it  a  little  melted  butter. 

182.— To  Boil  Brocoli. 

Wash  it,  cut  off  all  the  outside  leaves  and  stalks,  throw  it  into  cold 
water  as  it  is  trimmed,  put  it  on  in  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt,  and 
boil  it  for  twenty-five  minutes  or  half  an  hour.  It  is  sometimes  served 
upon  bits  of  toasted  bread,  and  a  little  melted  butter  poured  round  it. 

183.— To  Boil  Artichokes. 

Cut  off  the  stalks  close  to  the  bottom,  wash  them  well,  and  let  them 
lie  for  sonie  hours  in  cold  water;  put  them  on  in  boiling  water  with  a 
little  salt  in  it,  cover  the  pan  closely,  and  boil  them  an  hour  and  a  half. 
If  they  are  old,  and  have  not  been  freshly  gathered,  they  will  take  a  longer 
time  to  boil.    Melted  butter  is  served  with  them  in  a  sauce-tureen. 

184.— To  Boil  Young  Green  Cabbages. 

Wash  and  clean  them  well,  put  them  on  in  boiling  water  with  a  little 
salt  in  it,  and  let  them  boil  quickly  from  three-quarters  to  nearly  an 
hour.    Serve  with  melted  butter. 


0 


185.— To  Stew  Cucumbers. 

Pare  eight  or  ten  large  cucumbers,  and  cut  them  into  thick  slices ;  flour 
them  well,  and  fry  them  in  butter ;  then  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  teacupful  of  gravy;  season  it  highly  with  caj^enne,  salt,  mushroom 
catsup,  and  a  little  port  wine.  Let  them  stew  for  an  hour,  and  serve 
them  hot. 

1^6.— Another  Way, 

Pare  the  cucumbers,  and  let  them  lie  in  vinegar  and  water  with  a  little 
salt  in  it  \  drain  them,  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  of 
gravy,  a  slice  of  lean  ham,  an  onion  stuck  with  one  or  two  cloves,  and  a 
bunch  of  parsley  and  thyme  ;  let  them  stew,  closely  covered,  till  Tender. 
Take  out  the  cucumbers,  strain  and  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  boil  it  up,  and  pour  it  over  the  cucumbers. 

187.— To  Stew  Mushrooms. 

Clean  them  as  for  pickling,  and,  after  washing  them,  put  them  into  a 
saucepan,  with  an  anchovy,  two  cloves,  some  nutmeg  sliced,  mace,  whole 
pepper,  and  salt;  let  them  stew  in  their  own  liquor  till  tender. 


THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK.  55 

In  this  way  they  will  keep  for  some  time,  and  when  required  to  he 
dressed,  pick  out  the  spice,  and  to  a  dishful  put  two  large  tablcspoonfuls 
of  white  wine  ;  add  part  of  their  own  liquor,  and  let  them  just  boil ;  then 
s-tir  in  a  bit  of  butter  dredged  with  flour,  and  two  tatlespoonfuls  of 
cream. 


Eor  a  good-si^ed  dishful,  take  a  pint  of  white  stock ;  season  it  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  little  lemon  pickle ;  thicken  it  with  a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in 
^our;  cleanse  and  peel  the  mushrooms,  sprinkle  them  with  a  very 
little  salt,  boil  them  for  three  or  four  minutes,  put  them  into  the  gravy 
when  it  is  hot,  and  stew  them  for  fifteen  minutes. 

189.— To  Roast  Onions, 

Uoast  them  with  the  skins  on  in  an  oven,  that  they  may  brown  equally. 
They  are  eaten  with  cold  fresh  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

190.— Onions,  Plain  Boiled. 

Peel  them,  and  let  them  lie  an  hour  in  cold  water,  put  them  on  in 
boiling  milk  and  water ;  boil  them  till  tender,  and  serve  with  melted 
butter  poured  over  them. 

191.— To  Boil  Carrots. 

Scrape,  wash,  and  clean  them  ;  put  them  on  in  boiling  water  witb  some 
salt  in  it,  and  boil  them  from  two  to  three  hours.  Very  young  carrots 
will  require  one  hour. 

192.— Carrots,  Flemish  Way, 

Prepare  (after  boiling)  in  the  form  of  dice,  balls,  stars,  crescents,  &c., 
and  stew  with  chopped  parsley,  young  onions,  salt  and  pepper,  in  plain 
melted  butter,  or  good  brown  gravy. 

193.— Green  Peas  Stewed. 

Put  a  quart  of  good  peas  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  lettuce  and  small 
onion  sliced  small,  but  not  any  water ;  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  orange,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  stew  gently  for  two  hours.  Beat 
up  an  egg,  and  stir  into  them  (or  a  lump  of  butter  will  do  as  well) ;  mint 
should  be  stewed  (if  it  can  be  procured)  with  them,  and  ought  to  be 
chopped  fine,  and  stirred  in  with  some  good  gravy. 

194.— To  Boil  Green  Peas. 

After  being  shelled,  wash  them,  drain  them  in  a  colander,  put  them  on 
in  plenty  of  boiling  water,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  of  pounded 
loaf  sugar :  boil  them  till  they  become  tender,  which,  if  young,  will 
be  in  less  than  half  an  hour ;  if  old,  they  will  require  move  than  an  hour ; 
iirain  them  in  a  colander,  and  put  them  immediately  into  a  dish  with  a 


56  THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK. 

slice  of  fresh  butter  in  it.  Some  peoi)le  think  it  an  improvement  to  boil  a 
small  bunch  of  mint  with  the  peas  ;  it  is  then  minced  finely,  and  laid  in 
small  heaps  at  the  end  or  sides  of  the  dish.  If  peas  are  allowed  to  stand 
in  the  water  after  being  boiled  they  lose  their  colour. 

(/  195.— To  Stew  Young  Peas  and  Lettuce. 

Wash  and  make  perfectly  clean  one  or  two  heads  of  cabbage  lettuce, 
pick  off  the  outside  leaves,  and  lay  them  for  two  hours  in  cold  water 
with  a  little  salt  in  it ;  then  slice  them,  and  put  them  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan, with  a  quart  or  three  pints  of  peas,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  gravy, 
a  bit  of  butter  dreds^ed  with  flower,  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pounded  loaf  sugar.  Let  them  stew,  closely  covered,  till  the 
peas  are  soft. 

196.— Peas  for  a  Second- course  Dish,  a  la  Francais. 

Put  a  quart  of  fine  green  peas,  together  with  a  bit  of  butter  the  size 
of  a  walnut,  into  as  much  warm  water  as  will  cover  them,  in  which  Jet 
them  stand  for  eight  or  ten  minutes.  Strain  off  the  water,  put  them  into 
a  saucepan,  coyer  it,  stir  them  frequently,  and  when  a  little  tender  add 
a  bunch  of  parsley  and  a  young  onion,  nearly  a  dessertspoonful  of  loaf 
sugar,  and  an  ounce  of  butter  mixed  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour ;  keep 
stirring  them  now  and  then  till  the  peas  be  tender,  and  add,  if  they 
become  too  thick,  a  tablespoonful  of  hot  water.  Before  serving,  take 
out  the  onion  and  bunch  of  parsley. 

197.— To  Steam  Peas. 

Shell  and  close-pack  the  peas  securely  in  a  large  quantity  of  lettuce- 
salad  leaves ;  put  the  package  into  a  stewpan  over  a  moderate  fire  for 
the  ordinary  time  required  to  boil  peas,  say  half  an  hour,  when  they  will 
be  ready. 

198.— Vegetable  Mash. 

Take  boiled  potatoes,  cauliflower,  carrots,  turnips,  and  green  peas ; 
mash  down  the  potatoes  with  plenty  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  mince 
small  the  cauliflower,  carrots,  and  turnips,  and  add  them  with  the  peas  to 
the  mashed  potatoes i  mix  them  all  well  together^  and  serve  up  hav. 


THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK.  67 


PASTRY,  PUDDINGS,  SWEETMEATS,  etc 

199.— Pastry  for  Pies  and  Tarts. 

To  every  three  ounces  of  flour  take  one  ounce  of  soojee,  two  ounces  of 
beef  suet,  and  a  little  salt ;  pick  and  clean  the  suet,  pound  it  in  a 
mortar,  and  make  a  flat  circular  cake  of  it ;  make  a  dough  of  the  flour 
and  soojee,  knead  it  well,  divide  it  into  two  equal  parts,  and  make  them 
into  two  flat  circular  cakes  quite  as  large  as  the  suet  cake ;  roll  the 
three  together,  placing  the  suet  cake  between  the  two  flour  cakes ;  double 
the  whole  up  twice,  and  roll  it  out  again,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

200. —Pastry  for  Eriar  Tuck's  Mock  Venison 
Pasty  Pie. 

Take  of  veal  one  pound,  and  of  udder  one  pound ;  pick,  clean,  and  wash 
them  ;  chop,  mince,  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar;  season  with  salt  and 
white  pepper ;  fix  the  mixture  with  the  yolk  and  white  of  an  egg  well 
beaten  up ;  pass  it  through  a  sieve,  rejecting  all  that  will  not  pass  ;  and 
form  it  into  a  flat  circular  cake. 

Make  a  dough  of  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  flour  and  half  a  pound  of 
soojee;  add  a  little  salt,  and  knead  it  well;  then  form  two  cakes  of  the 
dough ;  place  the  veal  and  udder  cake  between,  and  roll  out  the  three 
very  carefully ;  double  up  the  whole  and  roll  it  out  again,  when  it  will  be 
ready. 

^  The  pie-dish  should  be  lined  thickly  with  the  pastry,  and,  although  a 
single  layer  should  cover  the  top  of  the  pie,  the  sides  and  edges  of  the 
dish  should  be  built  up  high  with  it ;  a^  double  layer  of  the  crust  is  not 
interdicted  to  cover  the  top  of  the  pie  if  it  will  not  interfere  with  raising 
it  up. 

201.— Custard, 

Take  a  seer  of  milk  and  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  boil  down  to  half  the 
quantity ;  add  sugar  to  taste ;  beat  up  quickly  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and 
add  them^  gradually  to  the  milk,  stirring  it  continually ;  after  a  while 
thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  rice  flour ;  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  flavour 
with  rose  water,  orange-flower  water,  or  vanilla. 

202. — Orange  Custard. 

Boil  very  tender  the  rind  of  half  an  orange,  and  beat  it  in  a  mortar 
until  it  is  very  fine  ;  put  to  it  a  spoonful  of  the  best  brandy,  the  juice  of 
an  orange,  four  ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  and  the  yolk  of  four  eggs  ;  beat 
them  altogether  for  ten  minutes,  and  then  pour  in  by  degrees  a  pint  of 
boiling  milk ;  beat  them  until  cold ;  then  put  them  in  custard-cups  into  a 
dish  of  hot  water;  let  them  stand  till  they  are  set ;  then  take  thera  out, 
and  stick  preserved  orange-peel  on  the  top.  This  forms  a  fine-flavoured 
dish,  and  may  be  served  up  hot  or  cold. 


58  THE  INDIAN  COOKEEY  BOOK. 


203.— Chocolate  Custard. 

Hasp  three  ounces  of  fine  Spanish  chocolate,  which  has  the  vanilla 
flavour;  make  a  paste  of  it  with  the  smallest  possible  quantity  of  water- 
put  two  pints  of  pure  milk  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil ;  then  add 
powdered  loaf  sugar  to  your  taste,  and  a  little  salt ;  meanwhile,  beat  up 
the  chocolate  with  some  of  the  milk  as  it  boils,  and  mix  it  well ;  pour 
it  into  tlie  boiling  milk,  which  you  must  keep  in  motion;  add  the  yolks 
of  eight  eggs  well  beaten  up ;  keep  stirring  in,  or  rather  milling  the 
mixture,  until  of  sufficient  consistency ;  when  cool  enough  put  the 
custards  into  glasses. 

204.— Almond  Custard. 

Blanch  and  pound,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  almonds ;  add  rather  more  than  a  pint  of  milk, 
thickened  witli  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-flour,  and  the  well-beaten-up  yolks 
of  six  eggs ;  sweeten  to  taste  with  pounded  loaf  sugar,  and  stir  it  over  a 
slow  fire  till  it  thickens,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  Serve  up  in  glass 
custard-cups. 

205.— Princess  Royal  Custard. 

Beat  up  in  a  large  deep  bowl  the  yolks  of  eight  fresh  eggs;  dredge 
into  it  wliile  beating  up  a  dessertspoonful  of  corn-flour ;  sweeten  to 
taste  with  the  best  pounded  loaf  sugar ;  add  to  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
Jordan  almonds  well  bruised  in  a  marble  mortar ;  pour  the  mixture  into 
a  clean  newly-tinned  copper  pan ;  stir  into  it  a  seer  of  good  cold  milk  ; 
have  a  brisk  flaming  fire  ready.  Put  the  pan  on  the  fire ;  never  cease 
stirring  it,  keeping  tiie  spoon  as  much  as  possible  in  the  centre  of  the 
pan ;  reduce  the  flame  after  it  has  boiled  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  continue 
to  boil  for  a  few  minutes  longer,  until  the  custard  is  of  the  consistency 
required. 

Eill  the  custard  cups  or  glasses,  leaving  about  half  an  inch  space  to 
fill  up  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  up  to  a  very  light  froth,  which 
should  be  done  a  quarter  or  half  an  hour  before  serving  up.  While  it  is 
being  beaten  up,  flavour  it  with  a  little  essence  of  almonds,  or  orange- 
flower  water. 

206. — Rose-bloom  Custard. 

This  is  made  in  every  respect  like  the  foregoing,  adding  some  bruised 
almonds,  and  a  little  rose-bloom  to  tint  the  custard.  The  froth  of  the 
white  cf  the  eggs  is  also  tinted  with  a  few  drops  of  the  rose-bloom. 

207.— Blanc  Mange. 

Boil,  till  dissolved,  three-fourths  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  as  much 
water  as  will  cover  it ;  when  lukewarm,  add  to  it  gradually  a  quart  of 
good  rich  milk,  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  some  lemon-peel,  and  a  few 
bitter  almonds  well  pounded;  sweeten  to  taste;  boil^  for  five  or  six 
minutes,  stirring  it  all  the  while ;  strain  through  muslin  into  moulds,  and 
place  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  to  congeal. 


I 


TEE  INDIAN  COOKEKY  BOOK.  59 


208. — Another  Way. 

Blanch  and  pound  witli  a  little  rose-water  two  ounces  of  sweet  and 
six  bitter  almonds ;  dissolve  three-fourtlis  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a 
little  water ;  when  nearly  cool,  mix  it  into  a  quart  of  good  rich  milk ; 
mix  in  the  almonds  the  peel  of  a  small  lemon  and  a  stick  of  cinnamon ; 
sweeten  to  taste  with  good  clean  sugar ;  let  it  stand  for  two  or  three 
hours ;  then  put  it  into  a  pan,  and  let  it  boil  for  six  or  eight  minutes, 
stirring  it  constantly ;  strain  through  muslin,  and  keep  stirring  it  until 
nearly  cold ;  then  pour  it  into  moulds. 

209.— Rice  Blanc  Mange. 

^  Mix  to  a  stiff  smooth  paste  four  tablespoonfuls  of  finely-sifted  ground 
rice-flour,  with  a  little  cold  milk ;  then  stir  it  into  a  quart  of  boiling 
milk,  in  which  had  been  dissolved  one-eighth  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass, 
a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  the  peel  of  half  a  small  lemon ;  sweeten  to  taste  ; 
boil  it  from  ten  to  fifteen -minutes,  stirring  it  carefully  all  the  while; 
remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  mix  into  it  briskly  a  tablespoonful  of 
pounded  almonds,  and  pour  it  while  scalding  hot  into  moulds  previously 
dipped  in  ^0/^  water.  ^ 

N.B. — If  it  be  desired  to  tint  it  in  streaks  like  marble,  drop  into  the 
mould  every  here  and  there,  at  the  time  of  pouring  the  blanc  mange, 
some  of  the  cochineal,  recipe  No.  268. 

2IO.— Corn-flour  Blanc  Mange. 

The  above  recipe  will  answer,  except  that  the  quantity  of  corn-flour 
must  be  in  the  proportion  of  two  tablespoonfuls  to  every  quart  of  milk. 

211. — Christmas  Plum  Pudding  (Indian  Way). 

This  pudding  may  be  made  a  few  days  before  it  is  required  for  the 
table. 

Take  of  cleaned  and  picked  raisins  one  pound  and  a  half,  currants  half 
a  pound,  finely-grated  bread-crumbs  three-quarters  of  a  pound,  finely-- 
sliced  mixed  peel  half  a  pound,  finely-minced  suet  three-quarters  of 
a  pound,  and  sugar  three-quarters  of  a  pound.  Mix  all  these  well 
together  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  finely-powdered  mixed  spices,  say 
cinnamon,  nutmeg,  and  mace;  then  moisten  the  mixture  with  lialfa 
pound  of  butter  free  of  water,  twelve  eggs  v/ell  beaten,  and  a  wineglassf  ul 
of  brandy,  stirring  it  well  the  whole  time,  that  the  ingredients  may  be 
thoroughly  mixed. 

Butter  a  large  piece  of  cloth  or  napkin ;  dredge  it  well  with  flour ;  put 
the  mixture  into  it,  and  tie  it  down  tightly  ;  alter  boiling  it  steadily  for 
seven  hours  take  it  out  of  the  boiler  and  hang  it  up  immediately,  until 
the  day  it  is  intended  to  be  eaten,  when  it  should  be  boiled  again  for  fully 
two  hours,  care  being  taken  that  the  water  is  boiling  before  the  pudding 
is  put  into  it.  Then  turn  it  out  of  the  towel,  and  serve  up  with  brandy 
sauce. 


^.3  THE   INDIAN   COOKEEY  BOOK. 


212.— Bombay  Pudding. 

Take  two  pounds  or  one  seer  of  soojee,  half  roast  it,  then  boil  it  in 
water  until  it  becomes  very  thick ;  butter  a  soup-plate  or  any  other  dish 
of  about  the  same  depth ;  pour  the  boiled  soojee  into  it ;  when  it  has 
cooled  and  congealed,  cut  it  into  eight  or  more  cakes ;  rub  the  cakes  over 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  dredge  with  iinely-sifted  flour,  and  fry  in  ghee 
until  they  acquire  a  rich  brown  colour.  Arrange  them  in  a  dish,  and  pour 
over  them  a  thick  syrup  flavoured  with  lemon-juice. 

213.  — Another   Way, 

Make  a  good  sweet  custard  and  set  it  aside  ;  rasp  fine  a  cqcoanut,  and 
fry  it  in  a  little  butter  with  grated  nutmeg;  pour  into  it  gradually 
a  wineglassful  of  brandy,  stirring  it  all  the  time ;  have  a  pudding-dish  lined 
with  a  good^  puff  paste ;  pour  the  fried  cocoanut  gradually  into  the 
custard,  stirring  it  well  all  the  while ;  fill  the  pudding-dish  with  the 
mixture,  and  bake  it  in  a  gentle  oven  for  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  or 
until  the  pudding  is  cooked. 

214.— Cocoanut  Rice  Pudding. 

Soak  a  breakfastcupful  of  fine  rice  in  water  until  quite  soft ;  scoop  out 
the  contents  of  a  hard  cocoanut ;  extract  all  the  milk  with  a  little  boihng- 
hot  water,  then  boil  the  rice  in  it,  sweeten  it  to  taste  with  some  date 
jagree  or  treacle,  and  put  in  a  few  grains  of  aniseed.  Pour  the  mixture 
into  a  buttered  pudding-dish  and  bake  it  slightly. 

215. — Indian  Lemon  Pudding. 

Take  four  chittacks  or  eight  ounces  of  butter  free  of  water,  six 
chittacks  or  twelve  ounces  of  white  sugar,  twelve  fresh  eggs,  four  wine- 
glassfuls  of  lemon  or  lime  juice,  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  finely-grated 
bread-crumbs.  Mix  the  butter  and  the  sugar,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
then  the  lime-juice  and  bread-crumbs,  and  when  the  oven  is  ready  add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  well  beaten  up,  put  the  whole  into  a  buttered 
pudding-dish,  and  bake  it  immediately. 

216. — Marmalade  Pudding. 

This  pudding  requires  care  in  mixing  the  ingredients  thoroughly  to- 
gether, but  it  proves  so  excellent  when  eaten,  either  cold  or  hot,  that  it 
fully  repays  the  trouble  of  preparation.  Shred  six  ounces  of  fresh  beef 
suet,  and  chop  it  up  fine ;  mix  it  with  two  ounces  of  moist  sugar, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  well-grated  bread-crumbs,  and  then  stir  in  half  a 
pint  of  new  milk ;  when  these  are  all  mixed,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  whisk  all  together  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  set  it  to 
stand  on  a  cold  stone  for  an  hour.  Butter  a  pudding-dish  or  mould 
thickly,  place  a  layer  of  the  above  mixture  in  it,  then  a  layer  of  marma- 
lade, another  layer  of  mixture,  and  so  on  alternately  until  the  mixture  is 
exhausted.  Eor  the  above  quantity  about  one  pound  of  marmalade  will 
be  required.    Whisk  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  little  loaf  sugar  and 


THE   INDIAN   COOKEHY   BOOK.  61 

orange-iiower  water,  place  the  frotli  at  the  top  of  the  puddiag,  and  bake 
for  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate  oven. 

217.— Custard  Pudding. 

Mix  with  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk  six  well-beaten  eggs,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  finely-sifted  flour,  half  a  small  nutme«i:  grated,  or  an  equal  quantity 
of  pounded  cinnamon,  a  tablespoonful  of  pounded  loaf  sugar,  and  a  little 
salt ;  put  it  into  a  cloth  or  buttered  basin,  that  will  exactly  hold  it,  and 
boil  it  for  half  an  hour.    Serve  with  wine  sauce. 

218. — Macaroni. 

Take  the  yolks  and  white  of  two  fresh  eggs,  and  as  much  finely- sifted 
flour  (English  or  American  preferable  to  country)  as  will  make  a  good 
dough  of  the  consistency  of  dough  for  pie-crusts  without  the  addition  of 
any  water ;  roll  it  out  to  its  full  extent  on  a  large  board  to  about  the 
!  thickness  of  an  eight-anna  piece  ;  then  cut  it  up  into  small  squares,  dia- 
i  monds,  or  circles,  or  into  any  shape  or  design  you  please,  which  must  be 
done  quickly,  as  within  an  hour  of  its  being  rolled  out  the  pastry  will 
harden.  It  may  be  used  immediately,  or  in  the  winter  it  may  be  kept 
good  for  a  few  days. 

N.B. — If  pipe  macaroni  be  required,  cut  the  macaroni  in  ribbons  of  the 
required  width,  dredge  some  flour  over  it,  and  put  it  lengthways  ovei 
glass  pipes,  joining  the  two  cut  ends  with  the  aid  of  a  little  raw  egg,  and 
draw  the  pipes  out  as  the  pastry  hardens  round  them.  Eor  pipe  maca- 
roni, the  pastry  should  be  rolled  finer. 

219.— Tart  and  Pie  Crusts  of  Soojee. 

To  one  seer  and  a  quarter  of  soojee  add  half  a  seer  of  suet  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Thoroughly  clean  the  suet,  remove  all  the  skin  and  othei 
obectionable  particles,  chop,  mince,  and  pound  fine  in  a  mortar.  Damp  the 
soojee  for  half  an  hour  before  kneading  it,  then  knead  it  with  the  suet 
and  a  little  of  the  yeast,  recipe  No.  283 ;  divide  it  into  parts,  dredge  it  with 
flour,  and  roll  in  layers ;  repeat  the  operation  two  or  three  times,  and  the 
pastry  when  baked  will  be  light  and  flaky.  Half  a  seer  of  flour  will  be 
required  for  dredging  and  rolling. 

Chappatee  or  Hand-bread. 

The  native  hand-bread  is  made  simply  of  wheat-flour  and  water ;  the 
addition  of  a  little  salt  would  be  an  improvement.  Make  a  good  dough 
of  flour  and  water,  take  a  piece  about  the  size  of  an  egg,  roll  it  ou^ 
to  the  circumference  of  a  half-plate,  and  bake  it  over  an  iron  or  earthen 
plate. 

221. — Dalpooree. 

Prepare  a  dal  chur  churree,  recipe  No.  93 ;  put  it  into  a  marble 
mortar,  and  reduce  it  to  a  fine  paste.  Prepare  an  ordinary  pie  pastry ; 
take  two  pieces  of  the  prepared  dough,  each  of  the  size  of  a  walnut  j 
shape  them  into  two  small  bowls  j  take  as  much  of  the  dal  paste  as  wiU 


THE  INDIAN   COOKEBY  BOOK. 


make  a  bail  of  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  put  it  into  one  of  the  bowls  of 
dough,  and  cover  it  over  with  the  other  bowl,  and  then  roll  out  the  whole 
very  carefully  to  the  size  of  a  dinner-plate,  and  fry  in  ghee  of  a  very  light  •  ji 
yellow  colour.  The  lighter  and  thinner  dalpoorees  can  be  made  the  better. 
They  should  be  eaten  hot. 


222.— Dal  Pittas. 


Prepare  an  ordinary  pie-crust,  and  the  dal  chur  churree,  recipe  No.  93 ;' 
roll  out  the  pastry,  cut  into  circles  of  the  size  of  saucers,  put  into  them 
a  tablespoonful  of  the  dal,  and  close  them ;  fry  in  ghee  of  a  light  brown 
colour.    They  should  be  eaten  hot. 

223.— Prawn  Doopiaja  Pittas. 

The  same  as  the  above,  enclosing  in  the  pastry  a  tablespoonful  of  the! 

prawn  doopiaja,  recipe  No.  69 ;  fry  in  ghee.  1 

N.B. — The  prawns  should  be  minced  before  being  put  into  the  pastry^ 

224. — Prawn  Doopiaja  Loaf. 

Pare  away  very  finely  all  the  outer  brown  crust  of  the  bread,  withou^ 
injuring  the  inner  crust ;  cut  out  of  the  top  of  the  loaf  a  small  square 
sufficiently  large  to  extract  from  within  all  the  crumb,  leaving  the  shell 
complete ;  then  fill  the  loaf  up  to  the  top  either  with  some  prawn  doopiaja 
minced,  or  with  the  prawn  cofta  curry.  No.  37,  and  as  much  gravy  as  it 
will  take ;  replace  the  square  bit  at  the  top,  bake  it  to  a  light  brown, 
and  serve  up  hot. 

225.— Fowl  Doopiaja  Loaf 

Is  made  in  the  same  way  as  the  prawn  loaf,  the  difference  being  that 
the  shell  of  the  bread  is  stuffed  with  either  a  fowl  doopiaja,  recipe  No. 
23,  or  with  the  chicken  cofta  curry,  recipe  No.  34 ;  all  the  bones  of  the 
fowl  will  require  to  be  removed  before  the  bread  is  stuffed  with  the 
curry, 

226.— Palooree. 

Take  of  the  finely-sifted  flour  of  the  chunna  ka  dal,  which  has  been 
previously  parched,  one  seer ;  six  large  Patna  onions  finely  sliced  and 
chopped ;  eight  fresh  green  chilies  sliced  very  fine ;  a  tablespoonful  each 
of  finely-chopped  soa  mattee,  saug,  and  parsley;  a  dessertspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  finely-ground  green  ginger.  Put  the  seer  ^  of  dal- 
flour  into  a  large  deep  pan,  and  mix  into  it  all  the  above  condiments ; 
then  keep  adding  to  it  water,  very  gradually  and  in  small  quantities  at  a 
time,  mixing  it  briskly  the  whole  while,  until  it  is  of  a  consistency  that  if 
poured  on  a  plate  from  a  spoon  it  will  incline  to  a  pyramid,  or  if  dropped 
into  a  glass  of  water  will  not  readily  dissolve,  but  drop  to  the  bottom  en 
masse.    In  this  state  the  mixture  will  be  ready  to  fry. 

Take  half  a  seer  of  the  best  mustard  oil ;  put  it  into  a  deep  frying-pan 
with  some  fine  slices  of  lemon-peel,  and  fry  it  or  cook  it  thoroughly ; 
remove  three-fourths  of  the  cooked  oil  from  the  frying-pan,  and  into  the 
remainder,  while  boiling  and  bubbling,  with  a  tablespoon  pour  in  the 


O't' 


THE  INDIAN   COOKEJIY  BOOK  63 

preparation  in  the  shape  of  rocks,  and  allow  to  brown,  turning  them  over 
so  that  top  and  bottom  may  be  of  the  same  colour.  As  the  oil  is  being 
expended  clear  the  pan  of  all  particles  which  may  accumulate,  pour  in 
some  more  of  the  ready-cooked  oil,  and  continue  to  fry  until  ail  the 
mixture  is  fried.    They  should  be  eaten  hot. 

227.— Cocoanut  Pittas. 

Scrape  finely  a  cocoanut,  brown  it  with  some  jagree  and  a  few  grains 
of  the  black  cardamom^  seed,  and  set  aside  ;  then  prepare  a  pastry  of 
finely-sifted  rice-flour  (it  must  be  kneaded  with  boiling-hot  water,  and 
will  not  roll  out);  take  as  much  as  the  size  of  a  duck's  egg,  and  press  it 
out  flat  in  the  palm  of  ^  your  hand  to  the  size  of  a  large  saucer ;  put  a 
tablespoonful  of  the  fried  cocoanut  into  it,  and  close  it  up  in  a  half-moon 
shape,  with  the  help  of  a  little  water.  Have  a  wide-mouthed  large 
earthen  pot  of  boiling  water;  stretch  and  tie  over  its  mouth  a  napkin, 
and  steam  the  pittas  or  cakes  over  them ;  they  will  be  ready  in  half  an 
hour,  and  may  be  eaten  hot  or  cold. 

228.— Plantain  Fritters. 

^  Prepare  a  batter  of  twelve  ripe  plantains,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  finely- 
sifted  flour,  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  sugar  to  taste,  and  cardamom  and  cara- 
way seeds,  with  a  couple  of  eggs  beaten  up ;  mix  the  whole  well  together, 
and  make  into  small  cakes  by  pouring  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time  of  the 
mixture  into  melted  ghee ;  fry  them  on  both  sides  to  a  good  brown 
colour,  and  serve  up  hot. 

229.— Fried  Plantains. 

.Slice  or  divide  very  ripe  plantains  lengthways  into  two;  brush  them 
slightly  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  dredge  with  flour,  and  try  in  melted 
ghee.    Serve  up  hot,  sprinkled  with  crushed  crystallized  sugar. 

230.— Bibinca  Dosee,  or  Portuguese  Cocoanut  Pudding. 

Extract  a  cupful  of  milk  from  two  cocoanuts,  and  set  it  aside.  Make 
a  syrup  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  mix  into  the  syrup  half 
a  pound  of  rice-ilour  finely  sifted,  and  the  cocoanut  milk,  which  boil 
over  a  good  fire,  stirring  the  whole  while  until  it  thickens  ;  pour  it  into  a 
buttered  pudding-dish,  and  bake  it  of  a  rich  light-brown  colour. 

231.— Bole  Comadree,  or  Portuguese  Cocoanut 
Pudding  with  Jagree. 

Extract  a  cupful  of  milk  from  two  cocoanuts,  and  set  it  aside.  Make 
a  syrup  of  half  a  pound  of  sugar ;  mix  into  it  half  a  pound  of  finely- 
sifted  rice-flour,  and  set  aside ;  fry  with  the  j^olk  of  an  egg  all  the 
scrapings  of  the  two  cocoanuts,  half  a  pound  of  jagree,  and  some  grains 
of  aniseed ;  then  mix  the  whole  thoroughlv  together,  and  after  the  oven 
is  well  heated,  and  ready  to  receive  the  pudding,  pour  the  mixture  into  a 
well-butt?-ed  pudding-dish,  and  bake  over  a  slow  fire  until  it  is  perfectly 
set. 


\ 


\ 


\ 


\ 


6^  THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK. 


232.— Goolgoola,  or  Fritters. 

Take  half  a  seer  or  one  pound  each  of  flour,  sugar,  and  rnilk,  half  a 
dozen  small  sticks  of  cinnamon,  a  little  yeast,  and  half  a  seer  of  ghee ; 
mix  the  flour  with  the  yeast  and  a  little  milk;  add  water  sufficient  to 
bring  it  to  a  thick  consistency  ;  then  put  into  it  gradually  the  sugar  and 
the  remainder  of  the  milk,  and  place  it  on  the  fire,  adding  the  cinnamon ; 
keep  stirring  it  with  a  large  spoon  until  it  is  again  reduced  to  a  thick 
consistency ;  remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  when  it  has  cooled  make  it  up 
into  small  balls,  and  fry  them  in  ghee. 

233. — Another  Way  {as  usually  served  on  the  tea-tahle). 

Take  two  chittacks  or  four  ounces  of  soojee,  four  eggs  well  beaten  up. 
and  four  chittacks  or  eight  ounces  of  milk ;  mix  the  soojee  and  eggs, 
beating  them  well  together,  and  gradually  add  the  milk.  Melt  down 
three  chittacks  or  six  ounces  of  ghee  in  a  small  but  deep  pan ;  pour 
into  the  boiling  ghee  in  one  spot  the  mixture,  a  dessertspoonful  at  a 
time,  and  fry  until  of  a  rich  brown  colour.  Serve  up  hot,  sprinkled  with 
crushed  crystallized  sugar.  ^ 

% 
234.— Cajure.  r 

Mix  one  seer  of  soojee  with  four  tahlespoonfuls  of  ghee  ;  add  half  a 
seer  of  sugar  ;  mix  well  together ;  then  pour  in  gradually  a  quarter  of  a 
seer  of  milk,  and  last  of  all  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  good  dough ; 
let  it  be  well  kneaded,  and  then  allowed  to  stand  for  two  or  three  hours. 

Have  some  ghee  melted;  take  the  dough  of  the  size  of  walnuts, 
shape  them  like  shells  and  fry  them  in  the  melted  ghee  until  they 
acquire  a  rich  brown  colour. 

235.— Hulluah. 

Steep  half  a  seer  of  soojee  in  one  seer  of  water  for  twelve  hours,  or,  if 
the  hulluah  be  made  in  the  winter,  let  it  soak  for  eighteen  hours  ;  it  will 
then  be  the  "  milk  of  soojee,"  which  strain  through  a  coarse  duster,  re- 
jecting only  such  impurities  as  remain  unstrained ;  add  to  the  milk  half 
a  seer  of  sugar,  and  boil  it,  stirring  it  all  the  time,  and  as  it  thickens 
add  three  chittacks  or  six  ounces  of  ghee,  warmed  with  a  few  white 
cardamoms  and  a  few  small  sticks  of  cinnamon ;  continue  stirring  it  from 
first  to  last  until  the  whole  is  well  mixed  together,  and  the  hulluah  finally 
taken  out  of  the  pan ;  while  warm  put  it  into  shapes  or  moulds. 

236. — Another  Way. 

Take  half  a  seer  each  of  soojee,  ghee,  sugar,  almonds,  and  raisins,  and  a 
few  white  cardamoms  and  sticks  of  cinnamon.  Make  a  syrup  of  the 
sugar,  and  set  it  aside.  Roast^  the  soojee,  or  brovm  it,  and  set  it  aside. 
Melt  the  ghee,  and  fry  the  soojee  with  the  spices  in  it,  after  which  put 
in  the  almonds  and  raisins,  stirring  it  wxll  all  the  time ;  last  of  all  add 
the  syrup,  and  continue  to  cook  and  stir  it  until  it  thickens ;  then  re- 
move into  moulds  or  shapes  while  hot. 


THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK.  ^ 

237.— A  Two-pound  or  One-seer  Plum  Cake. 

This  is  the  favourite  cake  for  Christmas,  weddings,  birthdays,  and 
ebristenings  in  India,  and  consists  of  the  following  ingredients  :— 

Butter,  perfectly  free  of  water ', 4  lb.  or2seer8, 

Good  clean  suj^ar 2    „  or  1      „ 

Raisins,  cleaned,  stoned,  and  dried 2    „  or  1      *,, 

Currants,  cleaned,  stoned,  picked,  and  dried    2    „   or  1      „ 

Jordan  almonds,  blanched  and  sliced  very  fine  2    „  or  1      „ 

Preserved  giger  \ 

"         oranje-peel  i^^  ^^*  ^^*«  s™^"  P^^^^s  ' 

::        Sfn-p'eel    f   and  well  dried,  mixed    ' 

,,         pumpkin       ^ 

Cinnamon,  finely  pounded  and  sifted 1  TablespoonfuL 

Nutmegs,  finely  grated i  ,, 

Dried  orange-peel,  fi.iely  pounded  and  sifted ^  „ 

English  caraway-seeds,  cleaned  and  picked 2  ,, 

Mace,  finely  pounded  and  sifted ^  ,, 

Finely-sifted  flour iHb.  or  f  seer, 

Soojee i  lb.  or  ^  seer. 

Eggs,  new  or  fresh  laid 40 

Brandy  of  the  best  quality 1  clEU'et-glass. 

An  experienced  man  ought  to  be  engaged  to  mix  the  ingredients, 
which,  if  properly  done,  will  take  fully  one  hour. 

Have  two  large  glazed  earthen  preserving-pans ;  put  the  sugar  into 
one,  and  bruise  it  well  down,  breaking  all  the  lumps;  add  to  it  three 
pounds  and  three-quarters  of  butter;  then  throw  in  one  by  one  all  the 
yolks  of  the  forty  eggs,  and  throw  the  whites  into  the  other 
preserving-pan,  mixing  the  sugar,  butter,  and  the  yolks  the  whole  while 
briskly  and  without  ceasing.  While  one  man  is  mixing  these  ingredients 
another  ought  to  be  actively  employed  in  beating  up  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  unceasingly  for  nearly  an  hour. 

After  the  butter  has  been  well  mixed  with  the  sugar  and  eggs,  dredge 
in  all  the  finely-pounded  spices  and  the  caraway-seeds ;  after  a  while 
dredgein  the  flour  and  soojee  in  small  quantities  at  a  time  (this  must  be 
well  mixed) ;  the  currants,  raisins,  and  preserves,  with  the  almonds,  arc 
next  to  be  added.  By  this  time  the  man  will  have  been  engaged  in 
mixing  the  ingredients  fully  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

After  the  raisins,  &c.,  have  been  thoroughly  mixed,  pour  in  the  brandy 
very  gradually,  and  in  small  quantities  at  a  time,  and  last  of  all  add  tiia 
well-beaten  whites  of  the  forty  eggs  :  the  stirring  now  must  be  very 
brisk  to  efPect  a  perfect  mixture  cf  the  whites  of  the  eggs  right  through  ; 
fill  quickly  into  the  moulds,  and  bake  without  a  moment's  delay  in  a 
brisk  baker's  oven. 

N.B.— The  moulds  ought  to  be  lined  with  paper  and  well  buttered. 

238.— Swiss  Cakes. 
Take  butter,  flour,  and  sugar,  of  each  the  weight  of  four  eggs ;  beat 
the  yolks  with  the  sugar  and  some  grated  lemon-peel,  or  ten  drops  of 
essence  of  lemon,  and  one  large  teaspoonful  of  rose-water,  or  orauge- 
fiower  water  if  preferred  ;  add  the  butter  just  melted,  and  slowly  shake 
in  the  flour,  beating  it  until  well  mixed  ;  beat  the  wliitcs  of  the  eggs  10 
ft  fr^fh.  'Diix  the  who'c  together,  and  beat  on  for  a  few  r.iinul.es  after  the 
vhiles'are  added.  Butler  a  tin,  and  bake  tlie  caVc  iiali  an  .ioui. 


66  THE  INDIAN   COOKERY   BOOK. 


239.-— Queen  Cakes. 

Prepare  eight  ounces  of  fresli  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  six  ounces  of 
pounded  and  sifted  loaf  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  dried  and  sifted  flour, 
the  same  quantity  of  cleaned  and  dried  currants,  four  well-beaten  e^jgs, 
a  little  grated  nutmeg  and  pounded  cinnamon,  and  a  few  pounded  bitter 
almonds ;  then  add  the  sugar  to  the  butter,  put  in  the  eggs  by  degrees, 
after  that  the  flour  and  the  other  ingredients  ;  beat  all  well  together  for 
iialf  an  hour,  and  put  it  into  small  buttered  tins,  nearly  filling  them,  and 
strew  over  the  top  finely-powdered  loaf  sugar.  Bake  them  in  a  pretty 
brisk  oven. 

240.— Shrewsbury  Cakes. 

Mix  with  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  washed  in  rose-water  and 
beaten  to  a  cream,  the  same  quantity  of  dried  and  sifted  flour,  seven 
ounces  of  pounded  and  sifted  loaf  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  caraway- 
seeds,  and  two  well-beaten  eggs ;  make  them  into  a  paste,  roll  it  thin, 
cut  it  into  round  cakes,  prick  them,  and  bake  them  upon  floured  tins. 

241. —Another  Way,  I 

Eub  into  a  pound  of  dried  and  sifted  flour  half  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter,  seven  ounces  of  sifted  loaf  sugar,  the  same  quantity  of  cleaned 
and  dried  currants,  and  a  iittle  grated  nutmeg ;  make  it  into  a  paste 
with  a  little  water  and  two  tablespounfuls  of  rose  or  orange-flower 
water ;  roll  it  out,  and  cut  it  into  round  cakes ;  prick  them,  and  bake 
them  upon  tins  dusted  with  flour. 

242. —Shortbread. 

Eor  two  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  allow  one  pound  of  butter,  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  candied  orange  and  lemon  peel,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  each 
of  pounded  loaf  sugar,  blanched  sweet  almonds,  and  caraway  comfits ; 
cut  the  lemon,  the  orange-peel,  and  almonds  into  small  thin  bits,  and 
mix  them  with  a  pound  and  a  half  of  the  flour,  a  few  of  the  caraAvay 
comfits,  and  the  sugar ;  melt  the  butter,  and  when  cool,  pour  it  into  the 
flour,  at  the  same  time  mixing  it  quickly  with  the  hands ;  form  it  into  a 
large  round  nearly  an  inch  thick,  using  the  remainder  of  tke  flour  to 
make  it  up  with ;  cut  it  into  four,  and  with  the  finger  and  thumb  pinch 
each  bit  neatly  all  round  the  edge ;  prick  them  with  a  fork,  and  strew  the 
rest  of  the  caraway  comfits  over  the  top.  Put  the  pieces  upon  white 
paper  dusted  with  flour,  and  then  upon  tms.  Bake  them  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

243.— Scotch  Shortbread. 

Warm  before  the  fire  two  pounds  of  flour  and  one  pound  of  butter  free 
of  water ;  rub  the  butter,  with  twelve  ounces  of  sugar,  into  the  flour  with 
the  band  and  make  it  into  a  stiff  paste  with  four  eggs,  well  beaten : 
the  rollinsr-out  to  the  required  thickness  must  be  done  with  as  little  use 
of  the  '-oUiug-pin  as  possible;  either  take  small  pieces,  and  roll  them 
into  obiong  cakes,  or  roll  out  a  large  piece  and  cut  it  into  squares  or 
rounds ;  pnck  a  i^aUbrn  lound  the  edge  of  each  cake  with  the  back  of  a 


THE   INDIAN   COOKEEY  BOOK.  67 

knife,  and  arrange  slices  of  candied  peel,  caraway-seeds,  and  caraway 
comfits  in  a  pattern.  They  will  take  about  twenty  minutes  to  bake,  and 
the  oven  should  not  be  too  quick.  The  mixing  of  flour,  sugar,  and 
butter,  and  afterwards  of  the  eggs,  must  be  done  very  thoroughly  and 
smoothly. 

244. — Another  Way, 
Take  two  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  butter,  four  eggs,  and  twelve 
ounces  of  loaf  sugar  powdered  very  finely ;  rub  the  butter  and  sugar 
into  the  flour  with  the  hand,  and  by  means  of  the  eggs  convert  it  into  a 
stiff  paste ;  roll  it  out  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  into  square  or  round 
cakes ;  pinch  up  the  edges  to  the  height  of  about  an  inch,  and  on  the 
top  of  each  cake  place  some  slices  of  candied  peel  and  some  large 
caraway  comfits,  pressed  down  so  as  to  imbed  about  half  of  each  in  the 
cake.    Bake  in  a  warm  oven  upon  iron  plates. 

245. —Gingerbread  Nuts. 

Take  three  pounds  of  flour,  a  pound  of  sugar,  three  pounds  and  a  half  ^ 
of  treacle,  half  an  ounce  of  caraway-seeds,  half  an  ounce  of  allspice,  two 
ounces  of  butter,  half  an  ounce  of  candied  lemon-peel,  three  ounces  of 
ground  ginger,  half  an  ounce  of  coriander,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  a 
wineglassful  of  brandy;  work  the  butter  to  a  cream,  then  the  eggs, 
spice,  and  brandy,  then  flour,  sugar,  and  then  hot  treacle ;  if  not 
stiff  enough,  a  little  more  flour  must  be  added  in  rolling  out,  but  the  less 
the  better. 

246. — Another  Way, 
Take  two  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  treacle,  half  a 
pound  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  ginger,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter 
(melted),  and  a  small  quantity  of  cayenne  pepper  ;  mix  all  together  and 
roll  out  to  about  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch,  or  not  quite  so  much ;  cut 
into  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

247.— Gringer  Cakes.  x^^ 

In  two  pounds  of  flour  well  mix  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  good 
moist  sugar  and  one  ounce  of  the  best  Jamaica  ginger;  have  ready 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  lard  melted,  and  four  eggs  well  beaten: 
mix  the  lard  and  eggs  together  and  stir  into  tiie  flour,  which  will 
form  a  paste ;  roll  out  in  thin  cakes  and  bake  in  a  moderately  heated 
oven. 

Lemon  biscuits  may  be  made  tbe  same  way,  substituting  essence  of 
lemon  instead  of  ginger, 

248.— Gingerbread  Spiced.  ^ 

Take  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  treacle,  one  eg^,  four  ounces  of 
moist  sugar,  an  ounce  of  powdered  ginger,  a  quarter  ol  an  ounce  each  of 
mace,  cloves,  allspice,  and  nutmeg  powdered,  a  pound  of  oiled  butter,  and 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff  paste;  mix  t^ell,  .^r.d  make  into  thick 
pieces,  which  should  be  brushed  over  the  top  with  vi\\\^^  of  '^^sr  ^rt 
baked  for  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

p2 


\ 


€8  THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK. 


249.— American  Gingerbread. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  melted,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  dried 
and  sifted  fiour,  the  same  quantity  of  brown  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  pounded  ginger,  nine  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  separately  beaten,  one 
glass  of  rose-water,  and  one  of  white  wine;  mix  all  well  together, 
and  beat  for  an  hour ;  then  with  a  spoon  spread  it  over  flat  tin  pans, 
about  the  thickness  of  a  penny-piece  ;  bake  it  of  a  light  brown,  and  while 
warm  cut  it  into  oblong  pieces,  and  place  them  on  end  till  cool,  wheu 
they  will  be  very  crisp. 

250.— Rich  Gingerbread  C  akes. 

To  one  pound  of  dried  and  sifted  flour  allow  half  a  pound  of  pounded 
loaf  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  washed  in  rose-water, 
one  pound  of  treacle,  one  nutmeg  grated,  the  weight  of  a  nutmeg  of 
pounded  mace,  and  as  much  of  pounded  cinnamon,  one  ounce  of  pounded 
ginger,  one  and  a  half  of  candied  orange  and  lemon  peel  cut  small,  half 
an  ounce  of  blanched  sweet  almonds  cut  into  long  thin  bits,  and  two  well- 
beaten  eggs.  Melt  the  butter  with  the  treacle,  and  when  nearly  cold 
stir  in  the  eggs  and  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  •  mix  all  well  together, 
make  it  into  tound  cakes,  and  bake  them  upon  tins. 

251.— Indian  Gingerbread. 

Take  twelve  ounces  of  pounded  loaf  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
fresh  butter,  one  pound  of  dried  flour,  two  ounces  of  pounded  ginger,  and 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Mix  the  ginger  and 
the  spice  with  the  flour;  put  the  sugar  and  a  small  teacupful  of  water 
into  a  saucepan ;  when  it  is  dissolved  add  the  butter,  and  as  soon  as  it  is 
melted  mix  it  with  the  flour  and  other  things ;  work  it  up,  form  the 
paste  into  cakes  or  nuts,  and  bake  them  upon  tins. 

252.— Oatmeal  Gingerbread. 

Gingerbread  made  with  oatmeal  instead  of  flour,  besides  being  nice,  is 
a  very  useful  aperient  for  children. 

253.— Excellent  Cheesecakes,  known  at  Richmond  as 
"  Maids  of  Honour." 

Take  half  a  pound  of  curd  free  of  the  whey;  add  to  it  six  ounces  of 
butter,  four  yolks  of  eggs,  and  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste ;  mix  all 
the  ingredients  well ;  line  patty-pans  with  a  pulf  paste,  fill  them  with  the 
mixture,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  The  cheesecakes  may  be  flavoured 
with  Jemon  for  a  variety,  and,  as  a  further  variety,  currants  and  raisins 
luaf  be  lutroduced. 

( v>^>Xf      c54.-^Cocoanut  Cheesecakes. 

G.XK>e  A  gOv)i-sizei  liut  Aery  line,  and  add  to  it  four  or  five 
spoonfuls  of  rich  syrup  and  one  bpoontul  of  rose-watw:  •  set  it  over  a 


^ 


THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK.  63 

few  coals,  and  keep  stirring  till  it  is  mixed  ;  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  let 
it  cool ;  next  mix  tlie  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  with  it,  and  bake  in  small 
pans  in  the  shape  of  cheesecakes.  The  pastry  for  the  pans  must  be  made 
with  flour  and  yolks  of  eggs,  rolled  as  tiiin  as  possible  ;  wet  the  tops  of 
the  cakes  with  rose-water ;  sift  some  refined  sugar  over  them,  and  oake 
them  in  an  oven  at  a  gentle  heat. 


255.— BunSo 

Mix  together  one  pound  of  flour,  six  ounces  of  butter,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  eg^, 
nearly  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk,  and  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  lemon. 
Bake  immediately.  The  above  quantities  will  make  twenty-four  buns ; 
for  variety,  currants  or  raisins  may  be  added. 

256.— Rout  Cakes. 

To  one  pound  of  ground  almonds  add  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar ; 
mix  them  together  with  yolks  of  eggs  to  a  stiff,  yet  flexible  paste ;  then 
form  it  into  small  biscuits  in  the  shape  of  coronets,  shells,  filberts, 
birds'  nests,  rings,  or  any  other  fancy  shapes ;  let  them  remain  five  or 
six  hours,  or  all  night,  upon  the  baking-tin  in  a  warm  oven. 

257.— French  Pancakes. 

Beat  separately  the  yolks  and  whites  of  seven  eggs ;  beat  with  the  yolks 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  pounded  loaf  sugar,  the  same  quantity  of  flour, 
one  pint  of  cream  or  milk,  the  grated  peel  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  rose-water ;  add  the  beaten  whites  the  last  thing. 
Allow  three  tablespoonfuls  to  each  pancake. 

258.— Common  Pancakes. 

With  nearly  half  a  pound  of  flour  mix  ^ve  well-beaten  eggs,  and  then 
add,  by  degrees,  a  quart  of  good  milk  ;  fry  them  in  fresh  lard,  and  serve 
them  with  pounded  loaf  sugar  strewed  between  each. 

259.— Indian  Pancakes, 

Add  to  three  well-beaten  eggs  a  pint  of  new  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  some  sugar,  and  a  little  pounded  cinnamon ;  mix  all  well 
together,  and  fry  in  butter ;  brown  the  upper  side  for  a  minute  before 
the  fire ;  serve  it,  cut  into  four,  with  pounded  sugar  strewed  over  it. 

260.— Pink  Pancakes. 

These  are  rarely  seen  at  an  Eno:lish  table,  although  they  form  a  very 
pleasing  variety.  Boil  a  large  red  beetroot  until  it  is  very  tender ;  then 
peel  it,  cut  it  into  thin  slices'^  pound  it  to  a  pulp  in  a  marble  mortar  and 
strain  through  muslm ;  add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  two  tablespoonluls  of 
flour,  four  of  cream,  plenty  of  pounded  loaf  sugar,  half  a  nutmeg  grated, 
and  a  wineglassful  of  brandy ;  rub  the  whole  into  a  batter,  and  fry  the 


X 


70  THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK. 

pancnkes  with  melted  butter,  ghee,  or  lard;  serve  them  up  hot,  gar- 
nisljed  with  green  candied  sweetmeats. 

261.— Mango  Fool, 

Take  six  green  mangoes  ;  remove  every  particle  of  the  green  peel,  cut 
them  into  four,  and  steep  them  in  clean  water ;  throw  the  stones  away ; 
boil  the  fruit  perfectly  tender,  pulp  and  pass  it  through  a  sieve, 
sweeten  to  your  taste,  and  add  to  it  very  gradually,  stirring  all  the  while, 
as  much  good  pure  milk  as  will  reduce  it  to  the  consistency  of  custard. 
It  should  be  eaten  on  the  day  it  is  made. 

262. — Another  Way. 

Boil  to  a  pulp  some  green  mangoes  without  peel  or  stones ;  pass 
through  a  sieve,  and  sweeten  to  taste ;  then  mix  into  it  very  gradually 
some  cold  milk,  which  has  been  previously  boiled ;  keep  stirring  until  it 
has  acquired  the  thickness  of  an  ordinary  cream  custard ;  fill  into  glass 
cups,  and  grate  a  little  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  over  them. 

263.— Pink  Mango  Fool. 

The  pink  mango  fool  is  produced  by  the  introduction  of  beetroot 
boiled  very  tender,  bruised  down,  strained  through  muslin,  and  added  to 
the  pulp  of  the  mango,  and  forms  an  agreeable  variety. 

264.— Vanilla  Drops. 

Take  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  beat  them  up  well,  and  add  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  finely-powdered  white  sugar  ;  flavour  with 
vanilla,  beat  up  well,  and  drop  it  on  buttered  paper.  Bake  in  a  cool 
oven.       » 

265.  —Mincemeat. 

Ingredients  -.—Three  large  lemons,  three  large  apples,  one  pound  of 
stoned  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  one  pound  of  suet,  two  pounds  of 
moist  sugar,  one  pound  of  sliced  candied  orange-peel,  one  ounce  of 
sliced  candied  citron,  the  same  quantity  of  lemon-peel,  one  teacupful 
of  brandy,  and  two  tablespooufuls  of  orange  marmalade. 

Grate  the  rinds  of  the  lemons,  squeeze  out  the  juice,  strain  it,  and' 
boil  the  remainder  of  the  lemons  until  tender  enough  to  pulp  or  chop 
very  finely ;  then  add  to  this  pulp  the  apples,  which  should  be  baked, 
and  their  skins  and  cores  removed;  put  in  the  remaining  ingredients  one 
by  one,  and  as  they  are  added  mix  everything  thoroughly  together. 
Put  the  mincemeat  into  a  stone  jar  with  a  closely-fitting  lid,  and  in  a- 
fortnight  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  This  should  be  made  the  first  or  second, 
week  in  December. 

266. — Another  Way. 

Take  seven  pounds  of  currants  well  picked  and  cleaned;  of  finely- 
chopped  beef  suet,  the  lean  of  sirloin  of  beef  minced  raw,  and  citron, 
lemon,  and  orange  peel  cut  small,  each  half  a  pound;  two  pounds  of  fine* 


THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK.  H 

moist  sugar,  an  ounce  of  mixed  spice,  and  the  rinds  of  lyur  lemons  and 
four  oranges  ;  mix  well,  and  put  in  a  deep  pan.  Mix  a  bottle  of  brandy 
and  white  wine  and  the  juice  of  the  four  lemons  and  oranges; 
pour  half  over,  and  press  down  tight  with  the  hand ;  then  add  the  other 
half  and  cover  closely.    It  may  be  made  one  year,  to  use  the  next. 

267.— Ornament  for  Custards  or  Creams. 

Whisk  for  an  hour  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  together  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  some  syrup  or  thin  jelly;  lay  it  in  any  form  upon  a  custard 
or  cream,  piled  up  to  imitate  rock,  or  it  may  be  served  in  a  dish  with 
cream  round  it.  The  ornament  may  be  coloured,  if  desired,  with  cochineal, 
saffron,  spinach,  &c.,  as  directed  in  the  following  recipe. 

268.— Colouring  for  Jellies,  Creams,  Ices,  and  Cakes. 

Boil  very  slowly  in  a  gill  of  water,  till  reduced  to  one  half,  twenty 

trains  of  cochineal,  and  the  same  quantity  of  alum  and  cream  of  tartar 
nely  pounded  ;  strain,  and  keep  it  in  a  small  phial. 
Por  yellow,  use  an  infusion  of  saffron. 

Eor  green,  wash  well,  and  pull  into  small  bits,  a  handful  of  spinach- 
leaves  ;  put  them  into  a  closely-covered  saucepan,  let  them  boil  for  a  tew 
minutes,  and  then  press  the  juice. 

269.— Colouring  Mixtures. 

Yellow. — Into  a  four-ounce  phial  put  half  a  drachm  of  saffron  and 
two  ounces  of  spirits  of  wine  of  the  strength  of  sixty-two  degrees  over 
proof.  Let  it  stand  until  the  spirit  is  tmted  of  a  deep  yellow ;  then 
strain  it  for  use. 

Red. — This  is  produced  Jy  infusing  during  a  fortnight  two  ounces  of 
red  sandal-wood  in  a  pint  of  spirits  of  wine.  If  at  the  expiration  of 
that  time  the  colour  should  not  be  dark  enough,  a  pinch  of  subcarbonate 
of  soda  will  give  it  the  required  tint. 

Pink.— Dissolve  half  an  ounce  of  cochineal  in  a  sufficient  quantity  0! 
Bpirits  of  wine. 

GnEEN.— Put  a  handful  of  well-cleansed  vine-leaves  or  spinach  into  a 
decanter,  fill  with  spirits  of  wine,. and  let  it  stand  in  the  sun  for  ten  or 
twelve  da)  s ;  strain  when  the  wine  has  become  of  a  bright  green. 
^  N.B. — The  above  colouring  matters  are  only  adapted  for  tinting 
liqueurs,  wines,  lemonade,  and  essences. 

(5  270.— Frost  or  Icing  for  Cakes. 

Beat  till  very  light  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  add  gradually  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  double-refined  sugar,  pounded  and  sifted  through 
a  lawn  sieve;  mix  in  the  iuice  of  half  a  lemon ;  beat  it  till  very  light  and 
white ;  place  the  cake  before  the  fire,  puur  over  it  the  icing,  and  smooth 
over  the  top  and  sides  with  the  back  of  a  spoon. 


72  THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK. 

0 

271. — Another  Way. 

Beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  wliites  of  three  new-laid  eggs,  and  add  to  tbera 
one  pound  of  sifted  white  sugar ;  flour  the  cake,  and  then  wipe  it  off; 
apply  the  icing  by  means  of  a  knife  smoothly ;  then  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

272.— Coloured  Icings, 

Pink  icing  should  be  made  by  adding  cochineal  syrup;  blae,  with 
indigo ;  yellow,  with  saffron  or  gamboge ;  green,  with  spinach  syrup  or 
sap  green ;  brown,  with  chocolate. 

273.— Fine  Icing  for  Tarts  and  Puffs. 

Pound  and  sift  four  ounces  of  refined  loaf  sugar ;  beat  up  the  white  of 
an  egg,  and  by  degrees  add  to  it  the  sugar  till  it  looks  white  and  is 
thick.  When  the  tarts  are  baked,  lay  the  icing  over  the  top  with  a 
brush  or  feather,  and  then  return  them  to  the  oven  to  harden,  but  take 
care  that  they  do  not  become  brown. 

274.— Raspberry  Iced  Cream. 

Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  pounded  loaf  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
raspberry  jelly  or  jam,  and  a  little  cochineal  to  heighten  the  colour,  wfth 
the  juice  of  a  large  lemon  ;  strain,  and  put  into  the  freezing-pot ;  cover 
it  closely  and  place  it  in  a  bucket  which  has  a  small  hole  near  the  bottom, 
and  a  spigot  to  let  the  water  run  off,  with  plenty  of  ice  broken  small, 
and  mixed  with  three  or  four  handfuls  of  coarse  salt ;  press  the  ice 
cbsely  round  the  freezing-pot,  turn  it  round  and  round  for  about  ten 
minutes,  take  off  the  cover,  and  remove  with  a  spoon  the  frozen  cream 
to  the  centre ;  cover  it  again,  and  turn  it  till  all  be  equally  iced.  Serve  it 
in  china  ice-pails  in  block,  or  put  it  into  moulds,  cover  them  securely, 
and  replace  them  in  the  bucket,  with  ice  and  salt  as  before,  for  an  hour 
or  more ;  dip  the  moulds  into  cold  water  before  turning  out,  and  serve 
immediately.  Water  ices  are  made  in  this  way,  substituting  water  for 
cream. 

275.— Apricot  Iced  Cream. 

Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  pounded  loaf  sugar  with  two  of  apricot  jam, 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  half  an  ounce  of  blanched  bitter  almonds 
pounded  with  a  little  rose-water ;  add  a  pint  of  cream,  stir  ail 
well  together  before  putting  it  into  the  freezing-pot,  and  freeze  it  as 
directed  above. 

276.— Mille  Fruit  Iced  Cream. 

©train  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  and  grate  the  peel  of  one ;  mince  finely 
a  dessertspoonful  each  of  orange  marmalade,  dried  cherries,  and  pre- 
served angelica ;  add  to  these  half  a  pint  of  syrup,  and  mix  the  whole 
with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cream,  or  a  pint  of  water,  and  then  drop  in 
here  and  there  a  few  drops  of  the  prepared  cochineal.  Put  it  iato  a 
mould,  and  freeze  as  above  directed. 


THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK.  73 


277.— Orange-water  Iced, 

Mix  with  a  pint  of  water  the  strained  juice  of  three  oran2:es  and 
one  lemon,  also  the  grated  peel  of  one  orange ;  sweeten  it  well  with 
syrup,  and  freeze  it. 

278.— Juice  of  Fruit  Iced, 

Press  through  a  sieve  the  juice  of  a  pint  of  currants  or  raspberries,  or 
other  fruit  preserved  for  tarts ;  add  to  it  four  or  ^ve  ounces  of  pounded 
loaf  sugar,  a  little  lemon-juice,  and  a  pint  of  cream.  It  may  be  whisked 
previous  to  freezing,  and  a  mixture  of  the  juice  in  which  the  fruit  was 
preserved  may  be  used. 

279.— Orange  Iced  Cream, 

^  Boil  down  a  seer  and  a  half  of  milk  to  half  the  quantity  with  some 
isinglass  and  a  quarter  of  a  seer  or  half  a  pound  of  sugar;  strain 
through  a  sieve,  and  when  perfectly  cool  add  the  juice  of  twelve  oranges. 
Mix  well,  put  into  freezing-pots  with  two  seers  or  four  pounds  of  raw  rice 
and  some  salt,  and  freeze  as  above. 

28a— Bael  Sherbet.  \ 

Take  a  perfectly  ripe  sweet  bael,  and  scoop  out  the  whole  contents  into  a 
bowl ;  make  a  paste  of  it  with  a  little  water;  then  add  sugar  to  taste, 
and  as  much  water  as  will  bring  it  to  the  consistency  of  good  honey ; 
then  pass  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  leaving  all  the  fibres  and  seeds  behind : 
it  is  a  most  delicious  drink,  and  if  taken  early  in  the  morning  in  rather 
a  liquid  state— say  of  the  consistency  of  porter — serves  as  a  most 
effective  aperient  in  a  natural  and  healthy  form ;  but  if  taken  of  the 
consistency  of  thick  pea  or  potato  soup,  it  has  a  directly  contrary  effect, 
and  as  such  is  invaluable  in  all  cases  of  relaxed  bowels. 

281.— Mallie,  or  Cream  as  prepared  by  the  Natives.         Nw 

Boil  down  over  a  slow  fire  milk  to  less  than  half  its  original  quantitv, 
and  when  cold  it  will  be  of  the  strength  and  consistency  of  a  well-made 
blanc  mange. 

N.B. — The  best  Indian  sweetmeats  are  made  of  mallie. 

282.— Tyre  or  Dhye. 

Warm  some  milk  without  boiling  it ;  stir  into  it  a  little  stale  butter 
about  the  size  of  a  large  pea ;  put  the  vessel  in  a  warm  place  well 
covered  over,  and  in  the  course  of  eight  or  ten  hours  the  tyre  will  be 
ready. 

283.— Yeast, 

Boil  one  pound  of  good  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar, 
and  a  little  salt  in  two  gallons  of  water  for  one  hour ;  when  milk-warm. 


Ji  THE   Il^DIAN   COOKERY  BOOK. 

bottle  it  close :  it  will  be  fit  to  use  in  twenty-four  iiouis.    One  pint  of 
this  will  make  eighteen  pounds  of  bread. 

284. — Another  Way. 

Take  two  pounds  of  soojee  or  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown 
sugar  or  suckur,  and  half  a  drachm  of  hops.  Dry  the  hops  in  the  sun, 
and  then  reduce  them  to  fine  powder,  by  pounding  in  a  mortar.  Mix  the 
soojee  or  flour  and  powdered  ho))s  with  a  little  water,  just  sufiicient  to 
make  a  stiff  dough ;  then  add  the  sugar  and  knead  all  well  together.  Roll 
the  leaven  int(^  a  ball,  wrap  it  lightly  in  a  clean  cloth,  then  in  a  blanket, 
and  put  it  away  for  three  days,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

N.B.— If  worked  up  or  kneaded  once  daily  during  the  three  days,  the 
fei  mental  ion  will  be  more  perfect. 

The  above  quantity  will  be  sufficient  for  twenty-five  pounds  weight  of 
bread. 


GARNISHES,  SAUCES,  STUFFINGS,  etc., 

EOR  EISH,  ROAST  AISID  BOILED  MEATS,  MADE  DISHES, 
PUDDINGS,  ETC. 

285.— Casserole  of  Potatoes. 

Peel  and  boil  some  good  mealy  potatoes,  pound  them,  and  mix  with 
them  some  butter,  cream,  and  a  little  salt ;  put  them  about  an  inch  and 
a  half  high  upon  a  dish,  and  leave  an  opening  in  the  centre ;  bake  it  of  a 
light  brown  colour,  and  take  out  as  much  more  from  the  centre  as  will 
admit  of  a  ragout,  fricassee  cutlet,  or  macaroni  being  put  in. 

286.— Rissoles  or  Croquets. 

Mince  very  finely  some  cold  roast  meat  or  fowl  and  a  small  bit 
of  bacon;  season  it  with  grated  nutmeg  and  salt;  moisten  it  with  cream, 
and  make  it  up  into  good-sized  balls  ;  dip  them  into  yolks  of  eggs  beaten 
up,  and  then  into  finely-grated  bread.  Bake  them  in  an  oven,  or  fry  of  a 
light  brown  colour.  Before  serving,  drain  them  before  a  fire  on  the  back 
of  a  sieve.    Garnish  with  fried  parsley. 

287.  — Fricandellans. 

Mince  about  two  pounds  of  tender  lean  beef  and  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  fresh  suet ;  then  pound  till  it  is  as  smooth  as  a  paste,  and  care- 
fully pick  out  all  the  threads  and  sinews  ;  add  four  well- beaten  egiis,  half 
a  pint  of  rich  cream,  and  as  much  grated  and  sifted  bread  as  will  make  it 
sufficiently  consistent  to  form  into  rolls  resembling  corks ;  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  the  corks  in  some  good  stock,  or  in  boiling 
water,  or  fry  them. 


THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK. 

288.  —Forcemeat. 

Mince  very  finely  the  following  ingredients  : — Three  ounces  u. 
beef  siiet,  one  of  fat  bacon,  three  of  raw  or  dressed  veal,  two  of  grc. 
bread,  a  little  grated  lemon-peel,  nutmeg,  pepper,  salt,  and  finely-minceu 
parsley ;  mix  all  well  together,  and  bind  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs ; 
make  it  into  croquets  or  balls,  the  size  of  large  nutmegs,  and  fry  them  in 
ghee  or  clarified  beef  dripping,  or  use  it  for  stuffing. 

289.— Forcemeat  Balls 

May  be  made  of  pounded  veal  or  mutton,  minced  beef  suet  or  fat  of  veal, 
taking  an  equal  quantity  of  meat,  suet,  and  grated  bread-crumbs  ;  add  a 
bit  of  fat  bacon  chopped,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg, 
and  mix  all  well  together  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg. 

290. — Another  Way. 

To  half  a  pound  of  beef  or  veal  add  half  a  pound  of  udder ;  mince  and 
pound  to  a  puipin  a  mortar;  remove  all  gristle  and  parts  not  pulped,  and  mix 
with  it  the  finely-grated  crumbs  of  a  slice  of  stale  bread,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  finely-chopped  parsley ;  soften  down  the  whole  with  some  milk  or  gravy, 
then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  finely-pounded  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt ;  rub  down  the  whole  well  together,  and  add  the  whites  and  yolks  of 
two  raw  eggs,  well  beaten  up  ;  make  into  balls.  If  for  soup,  the  size  of 
the  balls  should  be  that  of  small  nutmegs ;  if  to  garnish  made  dishes, 
make  them  into  the  size  of  large  walnuts  or  of  ordinary  croquets  or 
rissoles. 

291.— Forcemeat  Onions. 

Peel  four  or  five  large  onions,  scoop  out  the  inside,  fill  them  with 
forcemeat,  and  roast  them  in  an  oven. 
They  may  be  served  with  roast  turkey  or  fowl. 

292.— Forcemeat  for  Fish. 

Pick  from  the  bones  the  meat  of  a  large  beckty,  hilsa,  or  any  sort 
of  white  fish  ;  mince  it  finely,  and  add  the  same  proportions  of  minced  suet 
and  grated  bread,  a  few  chopped  oysters,  and  some  boiled  parsley  chopped; 
season  with  a  little  pounded  onion,  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg, 
and  lemon-peel ;  mix  all  well  together,  and  bind  it  with  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  eggs ;  roll  it  into  small  balls,  and  fry  them. 

293.— Egg  Balls. 

Grind  down  to  a  powder  or  paste  the  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs  ; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  very  finely  sifted  fiour,  some  tender  leaves  of  parsley, 
finely  chopped,  and  a  little  white  pepper  and  salt ;  grind,  and  m.ix  all  well 
together  with  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg ;  roll  into  small  balls,  and  boil  for  two 
or  three  minutes. 

294.— Brain  Cakes. 

Having  previously  boiled  down  the  brains,  bruise  them,  and  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  finely-sifted  flour,  some  grated  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt, 


THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK. 

,^  ;  then  roll  out  like  piecrust  to  the  thickness  of  a  rupee, 
.  cakes  of  the  size  of  Spanish  dollars,  and  fry  them. 

295. — Another  Way, 

Take  the  brains  and  remove  any  veins,  &c. ;  chop  well  with  a  knife, 
add  salt,  nutmeg,  and  pepper,  a  little  raw  ^%^,  and  flour  enough  to  make 
them  stick  together ;  mix  well,  make  into  cakes  about  the  size  of  the 
top  of  liqueur  glasses,  and  fry  them  brown  on  both  sides. 

296.— Sauce  for  Salads, 

Bruise  down  when  quite  cold  the  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  and 
rub  into  them  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one  of  salt  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  with  two  to  three  teaspoonfuls  of  prepared  mustard. 
*V\  hen  well  rubbed  together,  add  very  gradually  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
oil,  stirring  it  the  whole  while;  when  well  mixed  add  a  dessertspoonful 
of  Lee  and  Perrin's  Worcestershire  sauce,  one  tablespoonful  and  a  half 
of  white  wine  vinegar,  and  a  dessertspoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar. 

If  the  sauce  be  required  thicker  than  usual,  take  either  a  larger 
number  of  eggs  or  a  teaspoonful  or  a  dessertspoonful  of  corn  or  other 
flour ;  put  it  into  a  cup,  pour  over  it  the  quantity  of  vinegar  prescribed 
above,  place  the  cup  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  over  the  fire,  and 
stir  until  the  vinegar  thickens  to  the  desired  consistency ;  then  mix  it 
gradually  into  the  preparation  of  eggs,  oil,  &c. 

297.— Sauce  for  Lobster  Salad. 

Observe  all  the  directions  given  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  adding  to  the 
yolks  of  the  hard-boiled  eggs  some  of  the  spawn  or  red  coral  of  the 
lobsters  and  a  dash  of  essence  of  anchovy.  Omit  the  sugar,  and 
instead  of  the  Worcestershire  sauce  substitute  mushroom  catsup  and 
Indian  tapp  sauce. 

298.— Excellent  Pish  Sauce. 

Wash  and  bone  two  ancliovies,  and  rub  them  up  in  a  mortar  with  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Put  these 
into  a  small  saucepan  ;  then  add  to  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten 
up,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  tarragon  vinegar,  a  small  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
consisting  of  parsley,  green  onions,  and  a  bay-leaf,  and  a  little  salt,  pepper, 
and  nutmeg;  stir  these  over  the  fire  until  the  sauce  is  thick,  but  be 
careful  not  to  let  it  boil,  or  it  will  burn.     Serve  it  up  in  a  sauce-t^^reen. 

299.— Sauce  for  Boiled  Mutton  or  Boiled  Brisket  ot 
Beef. 

Warm  a  saucepan,  and  melt  in  it  two  chittacks  or  four  ounces  of  butter 
free  of  water ;  fry  in  it  a  tablespoonful  of  finely-sliced  onions ;  when  half 
browned,  put  in  gradually  two  tablespoonfuls  of  finely-sifted  flour,  taking 
care  to  keep  stirring  it  the  whole  time ;  then  add  gradually  eight  chittacks 
or  sixteen  ounces  of  pure  milk,  and  lastly  two  wineglasses  of  vinegar. 


(X  o 


i<.  .    .  •  v-Q 


%  ^l 


(/ 


THE  INDIAN   COOKERY   BOOK.  77 

with  finely-pounded  white  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.    This  sauce  is 
without  its  equal.  ^ 

300.— Fresh  Tomato  Gravy  Sauce  for  Made  Dishes. 

Take  forty  tomatoes  (halved),  some  soup  herbs,  and  salt ;  boil  them  in 
a  little  stock ;  strain  through  a  sieve,  replace  on  the  fire,  and  thicken 
with  the  addition,  more  or  less,  of  a  dessertspo9nful  of  arrowroot  or 
corn  or  other  flour,  to  obtain  any  required  consistency ;  finally  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  good  English  vinegar ;  if  a  sharper  gravy  sauce  be  de- 
sired, instead  of  the  vinegar  add  either  a  dessertspoonful  of  tapp  sauce 
or  a  teaspoonful  of  chili  vinegar. 

301.— Tapp  Sauce  Gravy  for  Made  Dishes. 

Thicken  a  good  seasoned  stock  with  arrowroot  or  corn-flour ;  add  to 
every  cup  of  the  thickened  stock  a  tablespoonful  of  tapp  sauce.  Pour  it 
while  hot  over  chicken,  veal,  beef,  or  prawn  cutlets,  or  other  made 
dishes. 

302. — Sauce  for  Cucumber  Salad.    '^' 

Slice  into  a  soup-plate  two  large  Patna  onions  and  a  couple  of  fresh 
chilies ;  sprinkle  over  with  ground  pepper  and  a  little  salt ;  then  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  allow  to  stand  for  two  or  three  hours 
before  adding  to  it  the  sliced  cucumbers.  This  sauce  is  also  used  occa- 
sionally for  lobster  and  prawn  salads. 

303.-— Parsley  Sauce. 

Pick,  clean,  and  mince  fine  some  fresh  green  crisp  parsley,  and  put  it  into 
a  tureen  with  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  capers  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  good  English  vinegar.  Ery  to  a  nice  light  brown  a  dessertspoonful  of 
curry  onions  in  two  chittacks  or  four  ounces  of  butter,  free  of  water;  add 
a  cup  of  good  white  stock,  free  of  fat,  and  thicken  with  crumb  of  stale 
bread  finely  grated,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper;  allow 
to  simmer  until  of  a  sufficient  consistency ;  then  pour  it  over  the  minced 
parsley  and  capers,  mix  well  together,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

a 

304.— Onion  Sauce. 

Clean  and  boil  six  or  eight  good  Patna  onions ;  allow  the  water  to 
drain  away  ;  fry  to  a  light  brown  colour,  in  two  chittacks  or  four  ounces 
of  butter,  free  of  ^  water,  a  dessertspoonful  of  finely-sliced  curry  onions ; 
then  gradually  niix  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  finely-sifted  flour  and  half  a 
seer  of  milk,  takiiig  care  through  the  whole  operation  to  keep  stirring  the 
sauce  to  prevent  its  lumping ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  of 
a  teaspoonful  of  pepper ;  last  of  all  add  the  boiled  onions,  and  in  a  few 
minutes  the  sauce  will  be  ready. 

305.— White  Onion  Sauce. 

Peel  and  cut  in  halves  eight  large  and  perfectly  sound  white  Patna 
onions,  and  steep  them  in  water  for  half  an  hour;  ihen  boil  them  until 


78  THE   INDIAN   COOKEEY  BOOK. 

quite  tender ;  drain  them  of  all  water ;  then  chop  and  bruise  them  fine,  and 
put  them  into  a  saucepan,  with  half  a  chittack  or  one  ounce  of  butter, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  some  milk ;  put  the  mixture  over  a  brisk 
fire,  and  keep  stirring  till  it  boils ;  then  rub  the  whole  through  a  sieve ; 
after  wliich  add  sufficient  milk  to  make  the  sauce  of  the  consistency 
required.  This  is  a  favourite  sauce  for  boiled  mutton,  over  which  some 
occasionally  strew  a  tablespoonful  of  capers. 


306.— Brown  Onion  Sauce  for  Gravy. 

Heat  one  chittack  or  two  ounces  of  butter,  free  of  water,  in  which  fry 
to  a  light  brown  half  a  dozen  well-selected  white  Patna  onions  finely 
sliced ;  ^  then  stir  into  it  gradually  half  a  chittack  or  one  ounce  of  flour ; 
add  a  little  stock  and  some  pepper  and  salt,  boil  up  for  a  few  minutes, 
strain  through  a  sieve,  and  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  port  wine,  and  the 
same  of  mushroom  catsup.  Lemon-juice  or  vinegar  may  be  added  if  a 
sharper  gravy  be  required. 


307— Sauce  for  Boiled  Beef. 

Mince  a  large  onion,  parboil  it,  and  drain  off  the  water ;  put  the  onion 
into  a  saucepan,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  finely-chopped  parsley,  some  good 
gravy,  and  one  ounce  of  butter  dredged  with  a  little  flour ;  let  it  boil 
nearly  ten  minutes,  and  add  a  spoonful  of  cut  capers.  The  sauce  must 
be  thoroughly  heated  before  being  served  up. 


308.— Sauce  for  any  kind  of  Meat. 

Take  three  tablespoonfuls  of  gravy,  tw9  of  vinegar,  a  blade  of  mace,  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  large  onion  sliced ;  boH  and  strain. 


309.— Lobster  Sauce. 

Pound  very  finely  the  spawn  of  a  lobster,  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  mix  it 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  melted  butter,  and  then  add  the  meat  of  the 
lobster  cut  into  small  bits.  Make  it  quite  hot,  but  do  not  allow  it  to 
boil.  A 

310.— Oyster  Sauce. 

Beard  and  scald  the  oysters ;  strain  the  liquor,  and  thicken  it  with 
a  little  flour  and  butter ;  squeeze  in  a  little  lemon-juice,  and  add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream.    Heat  it  well,  but  do  not  let  it  bolL 

311.— Sauce  for  Boast  Beef.  t^ 

Mix  well  together  a  large  tablespoonful  of  finely-grated  horseradish, 
a  dessertspoonful  of  made  mustard,  and  half  a  dessertspoonful  of  brown 
sugar ;  then  add  vinegar  till  it  be  as  thick  as  made  mustard.  Srrve  in  a 
sauce-tureen. 


THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK.  79 


312.— To  make  a  Quart  Bottle  of  Fish  or  Meat  Sauce. 

To  half  a  bottle  of  vinegar  put  one  ounce  of  cayenne,  two  cloves 
of  garlic,  one  tablespoonful  of  soy,  two  of  walnut,  and  two  of  mushroom 
catsup.  Let  it  stand  six  days,  shaking  it  frequently;  then  add  the 
remaining  half  of  the  bottle  of  vinegar,  let  it  stand  another  week,  strain, 
and  put  it  into  small  bottles. 

313.— Pink  Sauce  for  Pish. 

Put  into  a  pan,  or  wide-mouthed  jar,  one  quart  of  good  vinegar,  half  a 
piiit  of  port  wine,  half  an  ounce  of  cayenne,  one  large  tablespoonful  of 
walnut  catsup,  two  of  anchovy  liquor,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cochineal, 
and  six  cloves  of  garlic.  Let  it  remain  forty  hours,  stirring  it  two  or 
three  times  a  day;  run  it  through  a  flannel  bag,  and  put  it  into  half-pint 
bottles. 

314.— Bread  Saace. 

Boil  in  a  pint  of  water  the  crumb  of  a  Erench  roll  or  of  a  slice  of 
bread,  a  minced  onion,  and  some  whole  pepper  ;  when  the  onion  is 
tender  drain  off  the  water,  pick  out  the  peppercorns,  and  rub  the  bread 
through  a  sieve  ;  then  put  it  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  gill  of  cream,  a  bit 
of  butter,  and  a  little  salt ;  stir  it  till  it  boils,  and  serve  in  a  sauce- 
tureen.  ^ 

315.— Apple  Sauce. 

Pare,  core,  and  slice  some  apples ;  boil  them  in  water  with  a  bit  of 
lemon-peel ;  when  tender,  mash  them ;  add  to  them  a  bit  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut,  and  some  brown  sugar.  Heat,  and  serve  in  a  sauce- 
tureen. 

316.— Egg  Sauce. 

Boil  three  or  four  eggs  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  put  them  into  cold 
water,  take  off  the  shells,  cut  three  of  the  whites  and  four  yolks  in  small 
pieces,  mix  them  with  melted  butter,  and  heat  it  well. 

317.— Shrimp  Sauce. 

Pick  some  shrimps  nicely  from  the  shell,  put  them  into  melted  butter, 
and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  pickle  and  vinegar ;  heat  it. 

318.— Mint  Sauce.     '^- 

Pick  and  wash  some  green  mint ;  add,  when  minced,  a  tablespoonful 
of  the  young  leaves  to  four  of  vinegar,  and  put  it  into  a  sauce-tureen, 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar. 

319.— Pudding  Sauce. 

Mix  with  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter  two  wineglasses  of  sherry  and 
1  tablespoonful  of  pounded  loaf  sugar  ;  make  it  quite  hot,  and  serve  in  a 
aauce-tureen,  with  grated  nutmeg  on  the  top  . 


THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK, 


320.— Parsley  and  Butter. 

Pick  and  wash  clean  a  large  bunch  of  parsley,  tie  it  up,  and  boil  it  for 
a  few  minutes  in  water ;  drain  and  chop  it  very  finely,  add  some  melted 
butter,  and  make  it  quite  hot.  It  is  better  to  be  made  thick  with 
parsley. 

r 
321.— Melted  Butter. 

Dust  a  little  flour  over  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  put  it  into  a 
saucepan,  with  about  a  wineglass  of  water ;  stir  it  one  way  constantly 
till  it  is  melted,  and  let  it  just  boil :  a  round  wooden  stick  is  the  best 
thing  to  stir  butter  with  in  melting.  If  the  butter  is  to  be  melted  with 
cream,  use  the  same  proportion  as  of  water,  but  no  flour ;  stir  it  con- 
stantly, and  heat  it  thoroughly,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 

322.— French  Melted  Butter. 

Mix  in  a  stewpan,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  half  a  gill  of  water,  half  a  spoonful  of  white 
vinegar,  and  a  litttle  grated  nutmeg.  Put  it  on  the  fire,  stir  it,  and  let  it 
thicken,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil,  lest  it  should  taste  of  the  flour. 

323.— Stufl5.ng  for  Hare  or  Kid. 

Parboil  the  liver,  and  mince  it ;  add  an  equal  quantity  of  grated  bread, 
double  the  quantity  of  fat  bacon  chopped,  and  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  walnut.  ^  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  chopped  lemon  thyme,  and 
parsley ;  bind  with  an  q%^  beaten. 

324.— Stuflang  peculiar  for  Fowls  only. 

Take  four  boiled  potatoes ;  break  them  into  pieces  while  hot,  and  add 
a  chittack  or  two  ounces  of  butter  free  of  water,  some  pepper  and  salt^ 
a  little  grated  bread-crumb,  and  some  eight  or  ten  olives  stoned,  and  cut 
or  chopped  small ;  the  quantity  of  potatoes  and  bread-crumb  may  be 
increased  or  decreased  according  to  the  size  of  the  fowl  or  number  of 
fowls  to  be  stuffed;  moisten  with  a  little  stock  or  gravy  before  stuffing 
the  fowls. 

325.— Stuffing  for  Roast  Pig,  Roast  Kid,  Fillets  of 
Veal,  and  Duck. 

Break  up,  hut  not  mash,  six  boiled  potatoes  with  one  chittack  or  two 
ounces  of  butter  free  of  water ;  cut  into  fine  slices  two  white  Patna  ' 
onions,  take  a  little  finely  chopped  suet,  finely-grated  crumbs  of  a  slice 
of  stale  bread,  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  all 
kinds  of  soup  herbs,  and  a  dessertspoonful  of  tomato  or  tapp  sauce,  add 
a  little  of  the  stock  or  gravy  of  the  giblets,  &c.,  and  stuff  the  pig,  kid,  or 
bird.  The  quantity  of  potatoes  may  be  increased  or  decreased  according 
to  the  size  of  the  roast  to  be  stuffed. 

N.B. — The  liver  may  be  cut  up  or  minced,  and  added  to  the  ^tufling. 


t 


tlliSJ  iSiVlAS  COOBJlJif  JSOOK, 


326.-— stuffing  for  Boiled  Turkey,  Goose,  or  Duck. 

^^inc:.^  a  'juade'-  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  and  ^rate  fine  the  crumb  of  a 
thick  slice  of  stale  bread ;  add  a  good  quantity  of  soup  kerb,  finely 
sliced  and  chopped  Patna  onions,  lemon-peel,  some  grated  nutmeg,  a 
t^aspoonful  of  white  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  dozen  oysters, 
and  an  anchovy,  01  in  the  absence  of  anchovies  a  little  minced  ham  or 
tongue;  melt  down  one  chitlaok  or  two  ounces  of  butter;  then  throw 
in  the  above  ingredients  and  warm  up  well ;  moisten  with  stock,  and  then 
stuff  the  bird. 

327.— Stuffing  for  Roast  Duck. 

Slice  into  fine  long  strips  or  ribbons  as  much  of  the  heart  or  inside  of  a 
young  tender  cabbage  as  will  suffice  for  stuffing ;  wash  and  dry  it  through 
a  colander,  and  shake  it  up  in  a  napkin,  without  crushing  or  destroying  the 
crispness  of  the  leaves ;  take  for  the  stuffing  as  much  only  as  wi!l  suffice 
to  stuff  the  number  of  ducks  intended  to  be  dressed  ;  add  for  each  duck 
a  teaspoonful  of  finely-pounded  pepper,  and  one  of  salt,  with  three  cloves 
of  garlick,  and  two  chittacks  or  four  ounces  of  butter  free  of  water ;  stuff 
your  birds  and  bake  or  roast  as  you  please.> 

328.— Stuffing  for  Roast  Turkey  or  Goose. 

Break,  blanch,  and  slice  up  very  fine  twenty-five  Barcelona  nuts  and 
a  dozen  Jordan  almonds,  and  set  aside ;  fry,  in  two  chittacks  or  four 
ounces  of  butter  free  of  water,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  finely-sliced  onions ; 
add  to  it  one  dozen  oysters,  half  a  dozen  boiled  potatoes  broken  up 
small,  but  not  mashed,  a  pork  or  beef  sausage  broken  up  small,  the  rind 
of  a  fresh  lemon  finely  sliced  and  chopped,  the  crumb  of  a  slice  of  stale 
bread  grated  fine,  some  garden  herbs,  grated  nutmeg,  plenty  of  finely- 
pounded  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste ;  then  add  the  sliced  nuts,  and  as  much 
stock  as  will  cover  the  whole  of  the  mixture,  and  allow  it  to  simmer  over 
a  slow  fire  until  it  is  reduced  to  the  consistency  of  stuffini>- ;  next  add^ 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  little  mushroom  catsup  and  port  wine,  and  stufl: 
the  bird,  after  fixing  the  stuffing  with  an  egg. 

329.— Jelly  for  Cooked  Birds,  Meats,  or  Made  Dishes. 

Boil  down  eight  calves'-feet,  with  some  pepper  and  salt,  two  onrons,  a 
head  of  celery,  and  two  carrots,  in  three  or  four  quarts  of  water,  accord- 
ing to  the  quantity  of  jelly  required;  when  perfectly  boiled  down  stram 
it  lightly  without  bruising  the  onions  or  carrots  ;  let  it  cool,  and  remove 
all  the  fat ;  then,  with  a  dozen  cloves  and  the  juice  and  rind  of  a 
lemon,  boil  it  again,  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  soy  or  any  oilier  dark- 
coloured,  rich,  and  well-flavoured  sauce;  beat  up  to  a  light  froth  the 
whites  of  four  eggs,  and  clear  the  soup  or  jelly ;  add  a  wineglass  of 
brown  sherry,  and  run  or  drip  it  through  flannel.  Pour  what  you  recjuire 
over  the  ready  cooked  or  dressed  meat  into  moulds,  and  let  tlie  rest  cool 
m  some  large  flat  dish,  and  cut  it  ap  small  for  garnishing  the  meat  or 
wird  when  served  up. 


4B  'ngrs  int)ta.n  gook^ey  booS. 


INDIAN   PICKLES,  CHUTNEES,   SAUCES,  bto. 

330.— Love-apple  or  Tomato  Sauce. 

Ingredients : — Eive  hundred  tomatoes  ;  two  pounds  of  green  ginger, 
ground  fine ;  a  pound  and  a  Lalf  of  garlic,  ground  fine  ;  one  pound  of 
chilies,  ground  fine  ;  one  pound  of  salt ;  three  pounds  of  tamarinds ;  and 
three  quarts  of  vinegar. 

Steep  the  tamarinds  for  twelve  hours  in  a  quart  of  the  vinegar ;  strain 
them  through  a  sieve,  rejecting  the  stones,  and  add  the  other  two  quarts 
of  vinegar,  all  the  ground  condiments,  and  salt ;  break  the  tomatoes  into 
the  mixture,  and  boil  the  whole,  stirring  it  all  the  time  until  it  thickens ; 
remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  when  cold  strain  it  carefully  and  bottle  the 
liquid,  which  is  the  sauce. 

331— Tomato  or  Love-apple  Chutnee. 

Ingredients  :-*-Hsi^o  hundred  large  ripe  love-apples,  four  ounces  of 
raisins,  seven  ounces  of  salt,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  eight  ounces  of 
chilies,  finely  sliced,  four  ounces  of  ground  garlic,  and  seven  ounces  of 
ground  mustard-seed. 

Parboil  the  tomatoes  in  a  quart  of  vinegar,  add  the  other  ingredients, 
and  allow  the  whole  to  stand  for  ten  to  twelve  hours  ;  then  boil  it  for 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes  over  a  slow  fire ;  when  cold,  bottle  it. 

332.— Tapp  Sauce. 

Ingredients : — Three  seers  or  six  pounds  of  peeled  and  sliced  mangoes, 
two  pounds  of  ground  raisins,  a  pound  of  ground  garlic,  half  a  pound  of 
ground  chilies,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  ground  ginger,  a  pound  of 
sugar,  two  pounds  of  salt,  a  quart  of  lime-juice,  and  six  quarts  of 
vinegar. 

Mix  all  the  above  well  together,  put  it  into  stone  jars,  and  expose  it  to  the 
sun  for  twenty  days  or  a  month,  after  which  drain  away  the  liquid,  which 
is  the  sauce ;  boil  it  for  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  and  when  cold  bottle  and 
cork  it. 

333-— Sweet  Chutnee. 

The  refuse  of  the  tapp  sauce  makes  an  excellent  chutnee  with  the  ad- 
dition of  some  thick  syrup,  a  few  dried  dates,  a  few  more  whole  raisins, 
and  some  hot  spices.  Put  the  whole  into  a  pan  and  let  it  simmer  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  or  until  the  syrup  is  absorbed  and  the  chutnee 
reduced  to  a  proper  consistency ;  when  cool,  bottle,  and  cork  it  well 
down. 

334. — Another  Way. 

Ingredients : — Two  hundred  green  mangoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  four 
pounds  of  salt,  three  pounds  of  ground  garhc,  thre«  pounds  of  ground 


THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK.  83 

ginger,  one  pound  of  chilies,  finely  sliced,  four  pounds  of  raisins, 
half  a  dozen  bay-leaves,  eight  pounds  of  sugar,  and  four  auarts  of 
vinegar. 

Make  all  the  sugar  into  a  syrup  with  two  quarts  of  the  vinegar,  in 
which  the  sliced  mangoes  must  be  boiled ;  when  half  done,  throw  in  the 
other  ingredients,  and  mix  up  well ;  last  of  all,  add  the  remaining  two 
quarts  of  vinegar,  and  when  the  chutnee  begins  to  thicken  remove  it 
from  the  fire ;  let  it  cool,  and  then  bottle  it. 

335 —Sweet  Mango  Chutnee.  n,^^^ 

Ingredients : — A  hundred  green  mangoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  two  seers 
of  tamarinds  stoned,  the  syrup  of  six  pounds  of  sugar  boiled  in  three 
quarts  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  finely-pounded  cinnamon,  two 
pounds  of  salt,  two  pounds  of  sliced  ginger,  two  pounds  of  cleaned  and 
picked  raisins,  three  quarts  of  vinegar,  and  one  dessertspoonful  of  grated 
nutmeg. 

Peel  the  mangoes,  cut  them  into  fine  slices,  and  steep  them  in  salt  for 
thirty-six  hours ;  drain  away  the  salt  water,  and  boil  them  in  the  three  quarts 
of  vinegar ;  when  cool,  remove  them  into  a  preserving-pan,  mix  in  all  the 
condiments  and  other  ingredients,  and  allow  the  whole  to  simmer  for  halt* 
an  hour,  pouring  in  the  syrup  gradually,  and  mixing  all  the  time,  until 
the  vinegar  and  ^  syrup  have  been  absorbed,  and  the  chutnee  has 
acquired  the  desired  consistency;  bottle  and  cork  when  perfectly 
cold. 

336.— Hot  Sweet  Mango  Chutnee.  x 

Ingredients : — ^^A  hundred  green  mangoes,  the  syrup  of  four  pounds  of 
sugar  and  three  quarts  of  vinegar,  four  pounds  of  tamarinds,  stoned  and 
strained,  three  quarts  of  vinegar,  eight  or  ten  bay-leaves,  one  pound  of 
ground  chilies,  two^  pounds  of  sliced  ginger,  one  pound  of  cloves  of 
garlic,  one  pound  of  raisins,  and  two  pounds  of  salt. 

Peel  and  cut  the  mangoes  into  fine  slices,  and  steep  them  in  salt  for 
twenty-four  to  thirty-six  hours ;  remove  the  mangoes  from  the  salt 
water,  and  boil  them  in  three  quarts  of  vinegar ;  when  quite  cool,  lay 
them  in  a  preserving-pan,  sprinkle  over  them  the  remaining  salt,  add  all 
the  condiments,  tamarinds,  raisins,  &c.,  and  allow  the  whole  to  simmer 
for  half  an  hour,  stirring  all  the  time,  with  the  syrup.  It  should  not  be 
bottled  until  quite  cold. 


337— Tamarind  Chutnee, 

Ingredients  :—Fo\\v  pounds  of  ripe  tamarinds  without  the  stones,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  each  of  ground  chilies,  ginger,  and  garlic,  two 
ounces  of  ground  cinnamon,  half  a  pound  of  picked  currants,  half  a 
pound  of  raisins  (the  small  Cabool  are  the  best),  two  pounds  of  soft 
sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt,  and  a  quart  of  vinegar. 

Put  the  whole  into  a  glazed  earthen  preserving-pan,  pour  over  it  a 
quart  of  vinegar  or  syrup,  or  as  much  as  will  entirely  cover  the  mixture, 
and  mix  all  well  together;  then  allow  it  to  simmer  over  a  quick  fire 
until  the  vinegar  or  syrup  is  absorbed  and  the  chutnee  thickened  to  the 

q2 


\ 


84  THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK. 

required  consistency ;  it  must  be  stirred  dmng  the  whole  time  it  is  on 
the  fire. 

N.B. — The  two  pounds  of  sugar  an.d  the  quart  of  vinegar  may  be 
made  into  syrup  or  used  separately. 


338.— Cussoondee. 

Peel  and  slice  fine  a  hundred  green  mangoes,  steep  them  in  salt  for 
twelve  hours,  then  put  them  under  a  heavy  pressure  for  two  hours,  and 
drain  away  all  the  water ;  then  mix  with  them  half  a  pound  each  of 
ground  chilies,  ginger,  and  garlic,  half  a  pound  of  bruised  mustard-seed, 
two  pounds  of  tamarinds  without  the  stones,  and  some  salt ;  when  the 
whole  is  thoroughly  mixed,  pour  over  it  as  much  warmed  or  cooked 
mustard  oil  as  will  entirely  cover  it,  and  cook  it  for  ten  to  fifteen 
minutes  over  a  brisk  fire ;  when  cold  bottle  it,  taking  care  that  it  is  kept 
several  inches  well  under  the  oil,  and  that  it  is  well  corked,  or  it  will 
spoiL 

339— Mango  Amchoor, 

Peel  and  quarter  some  green  mangoes ;  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  expose 
them  to  the  sun  until  they  begin  to  dry  up ;  then  rub  them  with  dry 
pounded  turmeric,  chilies,  and  dry  ginger;  sprinkle  more  salt,  and  expose 
them  to  the  sun  again,  until  they  are  quite  dried  up,  when  they  may  be 
bottled  and  kept  for  use. 

340.— Pickled  Cabbage. 

Quarter  a  full-sized  cabbage,  keep  it  in  salt  for  forty-eight  hours,  and 
then  drain  away  all  the  water.  Prepare  a  pickle  or  brine  of  salt  and 
water  in  the  proportion  of  eight  ounces  of  salt  to  twenty-four  ounces  of 
water,  and  boil  it  with  half  an  ounce  each  of  peppercorns  and  bay-leaves; 
pack  the  cabbage  loose  in  a  wide-mouthed  stone  jar,  and  pour  over  it  the 
cold  pickle  or  brine,  which  should  have  been  boiled  the  day  before.  Care 
must  be  taken  to  keep  the  mouth  of  the  jar  always  airtight,  or  the 
cabbage  will  rot.  When  required  for  use,  take  out  as  much  as  will  be 
required,  steep  it  in  fresh  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  two,  and  then  boil  it 
the  same  as  fresh  cabbage. 


341— Red  Cabbage  Pickle. 

Slice  the  cabbage,  and  sprinkle  salt  over  each  layer ;  after  twenty-four 
hours  remove  it  into  a  colander,  and  allow  all  the  salt  water  to  drain ; 
then  put  the  cabbage  into  a  pan,  pour  in  sufficient  boiling  vinegar  to  cover 
it,  and  add  a  few  slices  of  red  beetroot ;,  when  cold,  put  it  into  glass 
bottles  and  cork  down. 

\^  342.— Red  Cauliflower  Pickle. 

Tins  is  a  very  uncommon  pickle,  and  looks  particularly  pretty  in  white 
bottles.  Cut  the  cauliflower  into  pieces  of  equal  sizes,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
and  place  it  in  the  sun  for  a  couple  of  days.    Make  a  syrup  of  vinegar  and 


THE  IKDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK.  85 

sugar :  to  every  quart  of  vinegar  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  few 
sticks  of  cinnamon,  and  as  much  sliced  or  bruised  and  pounded  red  beet 
as  will  give  the  vinegar  a  deep  red  colour.  When  all  the  salt  water  has 
drained  away,  put  the  cauliflower  into  a  pan,  and  pour  over  it  the  boiling- 
hot  vinegar  or  syrup  through  a  fine  sieve,  in  order  to  leave  behind  the 
sticks  of  cinnamon  and  fibres  of  the  beetroot ;  when  cold,  put  the  pickle 
into  nice  white  bottles  and  cork. 

A 
343.— Patna  or  Bombay  Onion  Pickle.  ^ 

According  to  the  size  and  number  of  bottles,  take  the  small  or  button 
onions ;  remove  the  outer  coat,  wash  and  dry  them  thoroughly,  throw 
them  into  a  pan  with  some  vinegar,  and  parboil  them  ;  set  the  vinegar 
aside,  after  filtering  it,  for  shrimp,  cucumber,  and  other  salads,  or  for  the 
preparation  of  mustard.  Put  the  parboiled  onions  when  cold  into  wide- 
mouthed  bottles,  laying  them  alternately  with  fresh  red  chilies,  a  few 
black  peppercorns,  some  finely-sliced  green  ginger,  and  a  little  salt.  Till 
the  bottles  with  vinegar,  and  cork  them. 

344— Mangoes  Pickled  Whole. 

Peel  and  divide  some  large- sized  mangoes  sufficiently  to  admit  of  the 
stones  being  easily  extracted  ;  rub  them  over  with  salt,  and  expose  them 
to  the  sun  for  two  or  three  days  ;  then  dry  them  with  a  napkin,  and  stuff 
each  mango  with  a  few  cloves  of  garlic,  finely-sliced  chilies  and  ginger, 
some  cullungee  seeds,  a  clove  or  two,  and  a  stick  or  two  of  cinnamon ; 
tie  them  securely  with  strong  sewing  cotton,  and  put  them  into  bottles, 
with  vinegar  sufficient  to  cover  them ;  cork  the  bottles  well,  and  expose 
them  to  the  sun  for  fifteen  to  twenty  days.  The  pickle  will  be  ready  for 
use  in  three  or  four  months. 

To  prevent  the  pickle  spoiling,  it  is  not  unusual  to  pour  a  tablcajjuua- 
ful  or  two  of  mustard  oil  over  it  when  in  the  bottle. 

345.— Sweet  Mango  Pickle.  "^ 

Peel  and  quarter  a  hundred  green  mangoes,  and  steep  them  in  salt  for 
thirty-six  hours ;  drain  ofP  the  salt  water,  wipe  the  mangoes  dry,  and  put 
them  into  a  preserving-pan,  with  a  seer  or  two  pounds  of  sliced  ginger, 
and  half  a  seer  of  chilies  finely  sliced  ;  pour  in  a  syrup  made  of  sugar 
and  vinegar  (half  a  seer  of  the  former  to  two  quarts  of  the  latter), 
and  allow  the  whole  to  simmer  for  ten  to  fifteen  minutes ;  bottle  when 
quite  cold. 

346.— Long  Plum  Pickle. 

Take  the  long  plums,  or  what  the  natives  call  nar  kollee  hhyar ; 
remove  the  peel,  and  keep  them  in  salt  in  the  sun  for  a  day  or  two;  drain 
away  the  salt  water,  and  put  them  into  bottles,  in  layers  alternately  with 
fresh  chilies,  cloves  of  garlic,  ginger  finely  sliced,  anii  peppercorns ;  add 
a  little  more  salt,  and  pour  in  as  much  vinegar  as  will  cover  the  whole  ; 
cork  and  expose  to  the  sun  for  fifteen  to  twenty  days.  This  is  one  of  the 
most  delicious  of  Indian  pickles;  it  will  not  be  fit  for  use  until  the  t)lums 
have  pickled  for  six  months. 


86  THE  INDIAN   COOKEHY  BOOK. 


347  —Sweet  Long  Plum  Pickle 

Is  made  in  every  respect  according  to  the  foregoing  recipe,  with  the  addi' 
tion  of  a  syrup  in  the  proportion  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every 
quart  of  vinegar,  and  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon. 

348.— Round  Plum  Pickle. 

Get  the  perfectly  ripe  fruit,  which  the  natives  call  cool;  put  them  into  a 
damp  cloth,  and  roll  them  about  to  free  them  of  dust ;  sprinkle  theni 
well  with  salt,  and  stand  them  in  the  sun  for  three  or  four  days ;  then 
drain  away  all  the  water,  and  bottle  the  plums  alternately  with  cloves  of 
garlic,  green  or  fresh  red  chilies,  sliced  ginger,  peppercorns,  and  ground 
mustard-seed  ;  add  a  little  salt,  fill  up  the  bottles  with  vinegar,  and  cork, 
and  expose  them  to  the  sun  for  fifteen  to  twenty  days. 

349.— Round  Plum  Pickle  with  Mustard  Oil 

Is  made  like  the  above,  the  only  difference  being  that  some  mustard  oil 
is  poured  over  the  vinegar,  and  allowed  to  float  about  an  eighth  of  an 
inch  thick  over  the  surface. 

-    i 

350.— Dry  Fruit  Pickle. 

This  is  the  pickle  of  all  pickles.  Take  equal  quantities  of  "dry  dates," 
called  the  shawarah,  kJiobanee,  or  Arabian  apricots ;  allohliokara^  a  species 
of  Arabian  plum  or  damson  ;  English  prunes,  rather  of  the  dry  sort ;  and 
Normandy  dry  pippins.  Wash  and  clean  them  thorcmghly,  particularly 
the  Arabian  dry  fruits,  which  are  very  dirty,  and  dry  them  well  in  the 
sun.  Stew  the  dry  dates  for  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  cut  them  up  into 
rings,  and  throw  away  the  stones.  Make  a  syrup  of  good  French  vinegar, 
in  the  proportion  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  clean  sugar  to  a  quart 
of  Erench  vinegar.  After  quartering  the  pippins,  arrange  them  and  the 
other  fruit  in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  in  alternate  layers,  with  finely-sliced 
ginger,  peppercorns,  sticks  of  cinnamon,  and  small  sprinklings  of  salt ; 
then  pour  over  the  whole  as  much  of  the  vinegar  syrup  as  will  entirely 
cover  the  fruit ;  cork  the  bottle  well  down,  expose  it  in  the  sun  for  a  few 
days,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use  in  a  month. 

351— Crreen  Mint  Vinegar. 

Put  into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  enough  fresh,  clean  mint-leaves  to  fill 
it  loosely,  and  fill  it  up  with  good  vinegar.  After  it  has  been  stopped 
close  for  two  or  three  weeks,  pour  off  the  vinegar  clear  into  another 
bottle,  and  keep  it  well  corked  for  use.  Serve  with  lamb  or  kid  when 
fresh  mint  cannot  be  obtained. 

352. — Another  Way, 

Fill  a  wide  mouthed  bottle  with  fresh,  full-grown,  green  mint-leaves; 
pour  in  a  quart  of  vinegar;  after  ten  or  fifteen  days  strain  away  the. 


THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK.  87 

liquor,  and  re-fill  the  bottle  witli  fresh  leaves ;  pour  back  the  liquor,  and 
after  it  has  steeped  for  ten  or  fifteen  days  longer,  strain  and  bottle  for 
use  as  required. 

353.— Horseradish  Vinegar 

To  three  ounces  of  finely-scraped  horseradish  add  a  quart  of  vinegar 
and  a  drachm  of  cayenne,  some  black  pepper  and  celery-seeds,  and  one 
ounce  of  bruised  onions ;  after  eight  or  ten  days  filter  the  vinegar,  which 
will  serve  as  an  excellent  relish  for  cold  beef,  salads,  &c.,  and  for  the 
preparation  of  mustard. 

354.— Chili  Vinegar. 

Pick,  clean,  and  put  into  a  glass-stoppered  bottle  one  chittack  or  two 
ounces  of  birds'-eye  chilies,  and  pour  over  them  a  pint  and  half  of  the 
best  vinegar ;  after  a  montli's  time  filter  through  blotting-paper  a  pint 
of  the  vinegar ;  add  to  what  remains  half  a  pmt  more  of  vinegar,  and 
expose  it  to  the  sun  for  a  few  days,  when  the  second  portion  will  also  be 
ready  for  use. 

355 —Essence  of  Chilies. 

Pick  one  chittack  or  two  ounces  of  the  best  dried  Patna  chilies ;  ex- 
pose them  to  a  li(^t  sun  for  an  hour;  then  pound  them  to  as  fine  a  powder 
as  possible ;  put  the  powder  into  a  stoppered  bottle  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  pour  over  it  as  much  vinegar  only  as  will  form  a  limp  paste,  and 
expose  it  to  the  sun  for  a  few  days ;  then  pass  it  through  muslin,  adding 
to  it  as  much  more  vinegar  as  will  reduce  it  to  the  consistency  of  some 
thick  sauce. 

356.— To  Preserve  Lime-iuice 

Squeeze  and  strain  a  pint  of  lime-juice  ;  put  into  a  basin  one  pound  oi 
double-refined  su^ar  finely  pounded  and  sifted,  add  the  lime-juice,  and 
stir  it  with  a  silver  spoon  till  the  sugar  is  perfectly  dissolved.  Bottle 
it,  and  cork  it  tightly  ;  seal  the  cork,  or  tie  bladder  over  it,  and  keep  it 
in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

357.—T0  Purify  Lime-jiiice* 

To  a  quart  of  strained  lime-juice  add  an  ounce  of  well-burnt  and  finely. 
•  pounded  animal  charcoal;   in  twelve  hours  filter  it  through  blotting- 
paper,  and  put  it  into  small  phials ;  cork  these  tightly,  and  keep  them  in 
a  cool  place ;  a  thick  crust  will  form  beneath  the  corks,  and  the  mucilage 
will  fall  to  the  bottom. 

358.— Green  Mint-juice.  ^ 

If  for  immediate  use,  extract  it  with  water,  but  if  required  to  keep  for 
a  few  days,  take  brandy  for  the  purpose.  Pick  and  clean  half  a  dozen 
large  stalks  of  good  fresh  mint,  and  pound  the  leaves  in  a  mortar  with 
a  dessertspoonful  of  water,  or  with  brandy ,  then  put  them  into  muslin 
and  squeeze  out  all  the  liquor.    Juice  may  be  extracted  a  second  time 


X 


03  THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  EOOK. 

by  a  little  more  water  or  brandy  being  added,  and  the  leaves  rebruiseci 
and  pressed  through  muslin. 

359.— Green  Ginger-juice 

Is  extracted  in  the  same  manner  as  mint-juice. 

360.— Juice  of  Onions  and  Garlick 

Is  extracted  by  pounding  the  condiment  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  water, 
and  squeezing  the  juice  through  muslin. 

0 

361.— Mustard. 

There  are  various  ways  of  preparing  mustard  for  the  table,  each  with 
its  admirers,  yet  in  nine  houses  out  of  ten  it  is  often  so  execrably  done 
as  to  mar  the  best  dinner,  through  the  loss  of  its  piquancy  and  pungency. 
Be  the  quantity  ever  so  small,  it  should  never  be  prepared  in  a  cup,  but 
in  a  soup  or  other  deep  plate.  The  dry  mustard,  with  a  little  salt,  shonli 
first  be  well  rubbed  down  with  the  back  of  a  spoon ;  the  water,  vinegar 
or  other  liquid  should  then  be  graduall)^  added,  and  mixed  gently  until 
the  required  consistency  has  been  obtained ;  it  should  then  be  mixed 
briskly,  turning  the  spoon  one  way  only,  and  in  a  few  minutes  the 
pungency  of  the  mustard  will  tell  on  the  eyes ;  put  it  immediately  into 
the  mustard-pot,  and  cork  it,  removing  the  cork  only  when  the  mustard 
is  required  for  use.  It  is  a  mistake  to  suppose  that  the  little  silver  or 
plated  lid  to  a  mustard-pot  is  intended,  or  is  sufficient,  to  preserve  the 
piquancy  and  pungency  of  the  condiment.  The  practice  which  prevails 
in  some  houses  of  allowing  the  spoon  to  remain  immersed  in  the  mustard, 
which  has  probably  been  prepared  with  vinegar,  the  spoon  perhaps  being 
a  plated  one,  is  very  objectionable. 

It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  give  any  further  instructions,  excepting  that 
hot  water  should  not  be  used.  Some  like  mustard  prepared  simply  with 
water ;  others  prefer  weak  vinegar  and  water.  It  is  also  prepared  with 
plain  vmegar,  with  tarragon  vinegar,  with  vinegar  taken  from  pickles  and 
capers,  and  with  onion  and  garlick  juice.  The  best  mustard  for  roast 
beef  is  that  prepared  with  horseradish ;  the  most  delicate  flavoured  is 
that  made  with  tarrdgoa  vinegar,  or  vinegar  taken  from  capers. 


IHB  INDIAN  COOKEBT  BOOK.  89 


INDIAN  PRESERVES,  JAMS,  JELLIES,  AND 
,  /  MARMALADES. 

'  HINTS  ABOUT  THE  MAKING  OE  PRESERVES. 

It  is  not  generally  known  that  boiling  fruit  a  long  time  without  sugar, 
in  an  open  preserving-pan,  and  skimming  it  well,  is  a  very  economical 
way,  as  the  whole  of  the  scum  rises  from  the  fruit,  and  boiling 
without  a  cover  allows  the  evaporation  of  all  the  watery  particles. 
Preserves  boiled  in  this  way  keep  firm  and  well-flavoured.  Jam  made  as 
above,  with  the  addition  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  pure  sugar  to 
every  pound  of  fruit,  is  excellent. 

362.— To  Detect  Adulteration  of  Sugar. 

The  adulteration  of  brown  sugar  may  be  detected  by  dissolving  a  little 
in  a  glass  of  clear  water  :  if  sand  or  any  similar  substance  be  present,  it 
will  after  a  while  fall  to  the  bottom  of  the  glass.  If  white  sugar^ 
adulterated  with  flour,  chalk,  or  other  similar  substances,  be  dissolved  in 
clear  water,  the  latter  will  become  opaque  or  discoloured,  and  a  sediment 
will  be  formed  at  the  bottom  of  the  glass. 

363.— "White  Syrup. 

Put  a  quart  of  water  over  the  fire  in  a  well-tinned  and  clean  copp^ 
stewpan ;  when  on  the  boil,  drop  into  it  lump  by  lump  one  pound  of  the 
best  loaf  sugar ;  let  it  well  boil  up,  and  after  all  the  sugar  is  thoroughly 
dissolved,  pour  it  into  a  broad  dish  to  cool.  When  cold  it  is  fit  for 
use. 

364.— Brown  Syrup. 

Take  a  pound  of  brown  sugar-candy  called  misseree,  and  prepare  the 
syrup  as  directed  above.  After  all  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved, 
strain  it  through  a  sheet  of  stout  blotting-paper  spread  on  muslin,  and 
allow  the  syrup  to  drip  into  a  broad  dish.    Use  it  when  quite  cold. 

365.—T0  Clarify  Sugar. 

To  every  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  allow  the  beaten  white  of  on 
^^^  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water ;  break  the  sugar  small,  put  it  into  a 
nicely  cleaned  brass  pan,  and  pour  the  water  over  it ;  let  it  stand  some 
time  before  it  be  put  upon  the  fire  ;  then  add  ihe  beaten  white  of  the 
e^^,  stir  till  the  sugar  be  entirely  dissolved,  and  when  it  boils  up  pour  in 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  let  it  boil  up  a  second  time ;  then 
remove  it  from  the  fire  and  let  it  settle  for  fifteen  minutes ;  carefully 


90  THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BbOK. 

take  off  all  the  scum,  put  it  again  on  the  fire,  and  boil  till  sufficiently 
thick,  or,  if  required,  till  candy  hi^h :  in  order  to  ascertain  this,  drop  a 
little  from  a  spoon  into  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  if  it  become  quite  hard, 
it  is  sufficiently  done;  or  dip  the  handle  of  a  wooden  spoon  into  the 
sugar,  plunge  it  into  cold  water,  and  draw  off  the  sugar  which  adheres ; 
if  the  sugar  be  hard  and  snaps,  the  fruit  to  be  preserved  must  be  instantly 
put  in  and  boiled. 

366.— Capillaire. 

To  a  quart  of  water  add  three  pounds  of  lump  sugar,  one  pound  of 
soft  sugar,  and  the  whites  and  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  up;  boil  it 
gently,  and  skim  well ;  on  the  scum  ceasing  to  rise,  remove  the  pan  from 
the  lire,  add  two  ounces  of  the  best  orange-flower  water,  and  strain 
through  flaiinel. 


367.— Ceylon  Moss,  Seaweed,  and  Iceland  Moss 

Preserves. 

Steep  the  moss  or  weed  for  two  or  three  days  in  fresh  water,  changing 
the  water  two  or  three  times  a  day ;  wash  it  well  once  before  boiling 
it ;  to  every  seer  or  two  pounds  of  the  weed  add  a  winegiassful  of  the 
best  vinegar ;  allow  it  to  simmer  over  a  gentle  fire  until  it  thickens,  so  as 
to  congeal  in  a  glass ;  then  strain  the  moss  or  weed  through  a  towel, 
pour  the  liquid  into  clarified  sugar  or  syrup,  and  boil  them  together  for  half 
an  hour;  pour  the  jelly  into  lar^e  wide  dishes,  and  when  quite  cold  cut  it 
into  cakes.  If  desired,  the  jelly  may  be  coloured  or  tinted  with  cochi- 
neal. 

368.— Guava  Jelly. 

Select  ripe  guavas,  and  as  they  are  peeled  and  quartered  throw  them 
into  a  large  bowl  of  fresh  clean  water ;  then  boil  them  in  as  much  other 
clean  water  as  will  only  cover  the  fruit,  and  when  perfectly  tender,  so  as 
to  dissolve  to  the  touch,  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  or  towel  without 
breaking  or  pressing  the  fruit,  and  allow  it  to  drip  through  for  twelve  to 
eighteen  or  twenty-four  hours  if  necessary.  Put  the  juice  on  the  fire  again 
without  a  cover  to  the  preserving-pan ;  boil  and  skim  well ;  add  gradually 
good  clean  sugar  to  your  taste  ;  when  nearly  done,  add  lime-juice  in  the 
proportion  of  ten  large  juicy  limes  to  every  hundred  guavas  ;  after  it  has 
boiled  until  no  more  scum  rises,  and  the  jelly  is  quite  clear,  pour  it  while 
the  jelly  is  warm  into  glass  or  stone  jars,  and  cork  them  down  when 
ctuite  cold.  A  hundred  guavas  wall  give  two  to  two  and  a  half  jars  of 
jelly,  and  will  take  from  two  to  two  and  a  haK  hours'  cooking  or  boiling. 

"^         369.— Guava  Cheese. 

After  all  the  water  or  juice  has  drained  from  the  guavas  boiled  for 
jelly,  pass  the  fruit  or  pulp  through  a  sieve,  rejecting  the  seeds ;  add 
lime-juice  and  sugar  to  taste,  and  boil  over  a  slow  fire  to  a  consistency 
stiff  enough  for  it  to  remain  unmoved  in  a  spoon ;  rub  a  little  butter  in  a 
mould,  fill  it  with  the  cheese  while  hot,  and  place  it'  in  a  heat,  or  in  an , 


THE  INDIAN   COOKEEY  BOOK.  91 

expiring  oven,  to  dry;  the  colour  may  be  improved  with  tne  aid  of 
*3ochineal. 

370. —Mango  Jelly. 

Peel  and  stone  a  hundred  green  mangoes,  and  cut  eacli  into  four, 
throwing  thbux  ^\  they  are  ready  into  a  solution  of  weak  lime-water, 
strained  of  all  sediment.  When  all  have  bean  peeled  and  stoned,  remove 
them  into  a  large  vessel,  pour  in  as  much  cold  water  as  will  entirely 
cover  them,  and  boil  them  until  they  are  quite  dissolved  ;  then  carefully 
strain  the  liquid  without  pressing  the  fruit,  and  let  it  drip  all  night. 
Boil  the  juice  again  in  an  open  preserving-pan,  and  cut  away  the  scum 
as  it  rises  ;  then  add  gradually  good  clean  white  sugar  until  it  is  sweet- 
ened to  taste  j  continue  to  boil  steadily  until  the  scum  has  ceased  to 
rise,  and  the  jelly  is  quite  clear  and  transparent ;  allow  some  of  it  to 
drop  on  a  plate  and  cool ;_  if  it  congeals,  remove  the  pan  and  fill  the 
bottles  while  the  jelly  is  slightly  warm,  and  cork  down  when  quite  cold. 

371.— Mango  Marmalade. 

Pass  through  a  sieve  the  pulp  of  the  mangoes  which  had  been  boiled 
for  jelly ;  add  plenty  of  clean  white  sugar,  without  quite  destroying  the 
acidity  of  the  fruit ;  boil  it  over  a  slow  lire  until  it  acquires  the  thickness 
of  guava  cheese,  and  bottle  while  it  is  yet  warm. 

N.B. — This  marmalade  is  well  adapted  for  rolly-polly  puddings,  tarts, 
mango  fool,  and  the  preparation  of  sauces  for  boiled  goose,  ducks,  &c. 

372.— Green  Mango  Preserve. 

Select  mangoes  slightly  under  the  middling  size,  taking  care  that  they 
are  not  bruised  or  injured  in  any  way.  Steep  them  in  clean  water; 
grate  the  outer  coat,  or  peel  very  finely,  so  as  to  remove  thoroughly  a 
fine  coat  of  green  from  the  surface ;  cut  them  sufiiciently  lengthways  to 
extract  the  stones,  and  then  throw  them  into  lime-water.  Remove 
them  into  a  copper  preserving-pan  with  clean  water,  and  parboil  them, 
skimming  them  well ;  throw  them  into  a  sieve,  and  allow  all  the  water 
to  drain  away ;  have  a  large  quantity  of  good  syrup  prepared,  allowing 
two  pounds  of  sugar  to  every  twenty-five  mangoes  ;  throw  the  mangoes 
into  the  syrup,  and  allow  them  to  simmer ;  cut  away  the  scum  until 
the  sugar  inclines  to  crystallize  ;  then  remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  and 
put  the  preserve  into  wide-mouthed  bottles  ;  before  corking  them  down, 
it  will  be  necessary  to  examine  the  syrup  every  two  or  three  days,  and  if 
it  be  found  that  it  is  becoming  thin,  it  wall  have  to  be  reboiled ;  just  as 
the  boiling  is  about  to  be  finished,  the  mangoes  ought  to  be  put  into  it 
to  warm  up ;  this  precaution  must  be  taken  every  time  the  syrup  has 
been  reboiled,  until  there  is  no  further  appearance  of  fermentation;  the 
bottles  may  then  be  securely  corked  down,  and  the  preserve  will  keep 
good  for  years. 

373. — Another  Way. 

Peel  and  stone  good  middling-sized  green  mangoes,  and  steep 
them  ill  lime-water ;  parboil  them  in  fresh  water,  and  then  in  syrup 


\ 


92  THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK. 

until  it  thickens  ;  put  them  into  bottles,  and  examine  them  daily ;  if  any  / 
signs  of  fermentation  appear,  reboil  the  syrup,  and  put  in  the  fruit  ?c 
the  end  of  the  boiling ;  the  reboiling  to  be  continued  until  the  syrup  has 
ceased  to  ferment. 

The  difference  between  this  and  the  foregoing  preserve  is  only  in 
appearance :  the  former  will  be  of  a  greenish  tint,  and  the  latter  of  a 
rich  light  brown. 

N.B.— Care  must  be  taken  to  have  plenty  of  syrup  at  the  starting,  so 
tliat  at  the  end  of  the  two  or  three  reboilings  there  may  be  enough  left 
to  cover  the  fruit. 

Y'       ^ 
374.— Pine- apple  Preserve. 

Take  care  that  the  pines  are  not  green,  nor  yet  quite  ripe ;  remove 
the  peel,  cutting  it  deeply,  and  then  all  the  seeds  and  eyes ;  cut  each 
pine  into  six  slices,  lay  them  in  a  preserving-pan,  and  sprinkle  over  each 
layer  a  good  quantity  of  sugar,  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon,  and  a  few  bay- 
leaves,  covering  the  uppermost  layer  with  a  larger  quantity  of  sugar ; 
allow  them  to  simmer  over  a  tolerably  brisk  fire  until  the  sugar  has  all 
melted ;  then  reduce  the  fire,  and  continue  to  simmer  until  the  pines 
have  quite  changed  colour  and  become  tender ;  remove  them  out  of  the 
syrup  into  a  colander,  and  allow  them  to  drain,  but  continue  to  boil  the 
syrup  with  all  that  drops  from  the  fruit  until  it  has  thickened ;  then 
return  the  fruit  into  the  syrup  and  finish  the  boiling.  Bottle  when 
quite  cool,  but  before  corking  them  for  good,  ascertain  the  state  of  the 
syrup  every  two  or  three  days ;  if  it  shows  signs  of  fermentation, 
remove  it  from  the  fruit  and  reboil  it ;  this  operation  must  be  continued 
until  the  syrup  has  ceased  to  ferment ;  the  fruit  is  not  to  be  reboiled, 
but  only  returned  into  the  syrup  when  the  boiling  is  about  to  be  finished. 


375. — Another  Way. 

Finish  the  preserve  by  boiling  the  sliced  pines  and  sugar  together 
until  the  fruit  has  become  of  quite  a  dark  colour,  and  the  syrup  so  thick 
that  it  is  not  likely  to  ferment.  There  is,  however,  the  objection  to  this 
method  that  the  fruit  becomes  more  or  less  leathery,  and  is  not  mellow 
like  that  preserved  according  to  the  foregoing  recipe. 

\j 

376.— Peach  Preserve. 

Clean  the  peaches,  slit  them  with  a  silver  or  plated  knife,  and  remote 
the  stones ;  have  a  very  strong  syrup  ready,  and  while  it  is  boiling  ha 
throw  in  the  peaches,  and  let  them  stand  over  a  slow  fire  for  six  to  eight 
hours  ;  then  remove  them  from  the  fire,  and  twelve  hours  after  drain  off 
the  syrup  and  reboil  it ;  return  the  fruit  into  the  syrup,  and  if  it  shows 
any  disposition  to  ferment,  boil  it  again ;  when  satisfied  it  will  not 
ferment  any  more,  add  a  little  brandy,  say  a  wineglassful  to  every  fifty 
peaches,  and  boil  the  whole  over  a  slow  fire  for  two  hours.  Bottle 
when  quite  cold.  The  kernels  from  the  stones  may  be  put  in  if 
desired. 


THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK.  93 

377. — Another  Way.  <^ 

'  Clean  the  peaches,  and  put  them  with  the  stones  into  a  preserving-pan 
with  sufficient  water  to  cover  them  ;  allow  them  to  simmer  until  quite 
tender,  cutting  away  the  scum,  and  then  spread  them  on  a  dish  to  cool. 
Make  a  syrup,  allowing  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every 
pound  of  fruit,  and  while  it  is  boiling  hot  put  in  the  peaches,  and  boil 
them  gently  until  the  syrup  is  quite  thick.  Two  days  after  drain  off  the 
syrup  and  reboil  it,  returning  the  fruit  into  it  while  hot ;  if  at  the  end 
of  twenty-four  or  thirty-six  hours  it  has  become  thin  again,  it  must  be 
reboiled ;  a  little  brandy  should  Idc  added  finally. 

N.B. — If  the  peaches  are  boiled  in  two  waters,  the  first  may  be 
thrown  away,  but  the  second,  in  which  the  peaches  should  be  boiled  a 
longer  time,  may  be  taken  for  making  the  syrup. 

378.— Pulwal  Preserve. 

Take  two  seers  or  four  pounds  of  large  full-grown  pulwals  without  any 
decay;  peel,  slit,  remove  the  seeds,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water; 
wash  them  thoroughly,  and  parboil  them  in  clean  water ;  then  pnt  them 
in  a  colander,  and  set  them  aside  to  cool.  Prepare  a  good  strong  syrup 
of  half  a  seer  of  sugar  and  a  quarter  of  a  seer  or  half  a  pound  of  green 
ginger  well  bruised ;  throw  the  pulwals  in,  and  allow  them  to  simmer 
until  the  syrup  thickens.  They  should  be  removed  immediately  the 
colour  becomes  quite  brown,  but  the  syrup  must  be  kept  boiling  till  it 
has  acquired  the  proper  consistency ;  return  the  pulwals  into  the  syrup, 
and,  if  necessary,  reboil  it  two  or  three  days  after,  if  it  appears  to  have 
become  thin,  or  inclined  to  ferment. 

2)"] 9'— Another  Way, 

Take  two  seers  or  four  pounds  of  good  large  fresh  pulwals ;  thoroughly 
grate  the  outer  surface,  half  slit  them,  remove  the  seeds,  and  throw  them 
into  water;  parboil  them  in  clean  water,  remove  them  into  a  colander, 
and  allow  them  to  drain  and  dry;  then  stuff  each  pulwal  with  some 
bruised  green  ginger,  tie  or  bind  them  with  fine  cotton,  put  them  into  a 
strong  syrup  made  of  half  a  seer  of  sugar,  and  allow  them  to  simmer 
until  they  change  colour ;  remove  them,  and  continue  to  boil  the  syiup 
until  it  thickens  ;  then  return  them  into  the  syrup,  and  in  two  or  three 
days  reboil  the  syrup,  if  it  has  become  thin,  or  appears  inclined  to 
ferment. 


I 


380.— Candied  Pulwal. 


The  same  process  is  observed  as  directed  for  pulwal  preserve,  the  chief 
difference  being  that  hot  or  boiling  clarified  sugar  or  syrup  must  be 
used,  and  the  preserve  exposed  to  the  sun,  spread  out  on  fresh  oiled 
paper,  to  dry. 

381.— Tipparee  (commonly  called  Gooseberry)  Preserve. 

Shell  or  remove  the  pods  of  the  tipparees,  and  wipe  away  all  dust ; 
prick  each  with  a  bamboo  or  other  wooden  pin,  and  put  them  into  a  pre- 


k 


X 


94}  THE  INDIAN    OOOKERY  BOOK. 

serving-pan ;  strew  some  sugar  over  each  layer  of  fruit,  making  the  final 
layer  of  sugar  thicker  than  the  others,  and  simmer  the  whole  until  all  the 
juice  has  been  extracted,  and  the  syrup  has  acquired  such  a  consistency 
that  it  will  congeal  if  dropped  on  a  plate ;  then  remove  the  preserve 
quickly  from  the  fire,  and  bottle  while  warm. 

382.— Tipparee  Jelly. 

Clean  and  prick  the  tipparees  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  and  put  them 
into  a  clean  well-tinned  stewpan,  with  as  much  water  as  will  entirely 
cover  them ;  boil  them  until  all  tlie  juice  has  run  out ;  strain  the  latter 
into  a  preserving-pan  through  fine  muslin,  without  crushing  the  fruit,  and 
allow  it  to  simmer  for  a  while,  removing  the  scum ;  then  add  to  it  fine 
clean  white  sugar  to  taste,  in  small  quantities  at  a  time,  skimming  it  well 
all  the  while ;  when  nearly  ready,  put  in  the  juice  of  two  lemons  strained 
through  muslin ;  when  the  scum  has  ceased  to  rise,  and  the  jelly  is  clear^ 
remove  the  pan  from  the  fire ;  bottle  the  jelly  while  it  is  warm,  and  cork 
when  it  is  quite  cold. 


3S3.— Tipparee  Cheese  or  Marmalade. 

Take  the  fruit  which  had  been  boiled  for  jelly,  and  pass  it  through  a 
fine  sieve,  leaving  the  skins  behind ;  clean  and  prick  a  few  more  tipparees, 
and  add  them  to  the  strained  fruit ;  put  the  whole  into  a  preserving-pan 
with  sugar,  and  simmer  until  of  a  sufficient  consistency  to  make  into 
cheese;  add  some  orange  marmalade,  in  the  proportion  of  a  tablespoonful 
to  everjr  mould ;  with  a  feather  damp  the  moulds  with  melted  butter  or 
sweet  oil,  and  pour  into  them  the  cheese  while  quite  hot ;  place  them  in 
cold  water,  and  turn  out  the  cheeses  as  soon  as  they  are  cool  enough  to 
retain  their  shape. 

384.— To  Preserve  Tamarinds. 

Rid  the  tamarinds  of  all  the  stones ;  put  a  layer  of  sugar  in  a  wide- 
mouthed  bottle,  and  over  it  a  layer  of  stoned  tamarinds,  then  another 
layer  of  sugar,  and  so  on  alternately  until  the  bottle  is  full ;  the  final 
layer  must  be  a  deep  one  of  sugar.  Tie  the  stopper  down  with  oiled 
bladder.  This  will  keep  good  for  years,  and  prove  serviceable  when 
fresh  tamarinds  cannot  be  procured. 


385.— Bael  Preserve. 

The  fruit  must  be  rather  less  than  half  ripe,  to  enable  it  to  be  cut  into 
firm  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick;  carefully  remove  the  seeds, 
together  with  the  gum  by  which  they  are  surrounded,  and  throw  the 
slices  into  cold  water  ;  when  all  the  bael  is  ready,  remove  it  from  the 
water,  and  simmer  it  in  a  strong  syrup  over  a  slow  fire  for  half  an  hour, 
or  until  it  has  become  of  a  rich  light  brown  colour ;  bottle  it  when  cool, 
taking  care  that  the  fruit  is  well  covered  with  syrup. 


THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK. 


386.— Bael  Jam. 

The  fruit  must  be  half  ripe,  all  the  seeds  and  gum  carefully  removed, 
and  the  pulp  passed  through  a  coarse  sieve  into  a  preserving-pan  with 
the  help  of  a  little  vrater ;  add  sugar  to  taste,  and  simmer  over  a  slow 
fire  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  fruit  and  sugar  have  acquired  the  con- 
sistency of  jam ;  let  it  cool,  and  then  bottle. 


387.— Candied  Bael. 

The  fruit  should  be  selected  as  for  the  preserve,  cut  into  slices,  and 
the  seeds  and  gum  removed ;  after  steeping  it  in  cold  water,  drain  it,  and 
put  it  in  a  preserving-pan,  with  sufficient  boiling  clarified  sugar  or  syrup 
to  cover  it ;  simmer  it  over  a  slow  fire  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  it 
becomes  quite  tender ;  then  remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  lay  the  fruit  on 
some  fresh  oiled  paper  spread  on  tin  trays,  and  expose  it  to  the  sun ;  it 
will  crystallize  in  a  few  hours,  and  the  oil  will  prevent  it  adhering  to  the 
paper. 

388.— Orange  Jelly.  / 

Melt  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  isinglass  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
fine  white  sugar  in  a  pint  of  water;  add  some  orange  and  lemon  peel,  and 
boil  until  it  is  a  good  syrup  ;  while  warm,  add  the  juice  of  ten  oranges 
and  two  lemons,  strain  the  whole  through  flannel,  and  put  it  into  moulds. 
The  juice  of  the  fruit  should  not  be  boiled. 


389.— Damson  Cheese. 

Take  damsons  that  have  been  bottled  for  tarts,  pass  them  through  a 
sieve,  and  reject  the  skins  and  stones  ;  to  every  pound  of  the  strained 
pulp  add  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  broken  small ;  boil  the  whole  until  it 
has  thickened  ;  then  pour  it  into  buttered  moulds  and  put  it  in  an  oven 
or  warm  place  to  dry ;  when  quite  firm,  remove  it  from  the  moulds  and 
serve  up. 

390.— Apricot  Cheese. 

Take  the  Cabool  apricots,  or  those  preserved  for  tarts  ;  if  the  former, 
wash  them  thoroughly  in  several  waters,  parboil  and  reduce  them  to  a 
pulp,  and  pass  them  through  a  sieve,  rejecting  all  the  skin,  &c. ;  add  sugar 
as  directed  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  and  a  handful  or  two  of  the  apricot 
stones  blanched,  and  boil  the  whole  until  it  has  thickened  sufficiently ; 
then  pour  it  into  buttered  moulds,  put  it  into  an  expiring  oven  or 
some  warm  place  to  dry,  and  when  quite  firm  turn  it  out  of  the 
moulds. 

N.B.— Other  bottled  fruits  sent  out  to  this  country  for  tarts,  not 
preserved  in  sugar,  are  admirably  adapted  for  converting  into  marmalades, 
or  for  making  into  "  fools." 


I 


THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK. 


391.— Orange  Marmalade. 

Take  twenty-four  oranges  and  six  lemons,  and  of  the  best  sugar  a 
quantity  equal  to  the  weight  of  the  fruit ;  grate  the  rinds  of  the  oranges 
and  lemons  ;  then  mark  or  cut  into  quarters  and  strip  off  the  rinds  with- 
out hurting  the  pulps ;  stew  the  rinds  until  they  become  perfectly 
tender,  changing  the  water  two  or  three  times  ;  then  drain  them,  scrape 
out  a  little  of  the  inside,  and  cut  them  into  very  fine  slices  or  chips ;  next 
V, separate  the  pips,  skin,  and  fibrous  parts  from  the  pulps,  over  which  pour 
some  water  and  strain  it  off;  with  this  and  a  little  more  water  prepare  a 
syrup  in  a  preserving-pan,  add  to  it  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten 
up,  skim  it  well,  and  the  moment  it  begins  to  boil  take  it  off  the  fire ; 
continue  to  remove  the  scum,  add  a  little  more  water,  boil,  and  strain 
until  the  syrup  is  perfectly  clear  ;  then  throw  in  the  chips  and  boil  until 
they  are  quite  transparent ;  next  put  in  all  the  pulp  and  juice,  and  boil 
until  it  thickens.  To  ascertain  if  it  has  been  sufficiently  cooked,  drop  a 
little  on  a  plate  and  see  if  it  congeals. 

392. — Another  Way. 

Stew  good  fresh  ripe  oranges  till  perfectly  tender,  changing  the  water 
several  times ;  drain  them,  and  cut  and  remove  the  rinds  without 
breaking  them  or  wounding  the  pulps ;  weigh  the  pulps,  having  previously 
removed  all  the  pips,  skin,  and  seeds,  and  to  every  six  pounds  ot  fruit  add 
seven  of  sugar;  pour  boiling  water  over  the  pips,  seeds,  &c.,  strain  them, 
and  take  the  liquor  for  the  preparation  of  syrup ;  skim  it  well  while 
boiling ;  when  clear,  add  to  it  the  rind,  liaving  first  scraped  and  thrown 
away  some  of  the  inside  and  then  cut  it  up  into  thin  slices  or  chips.  After 
a  while  add  the  pulp  and  juice,  and  boil  it  up  again  until  it  acquires  the 
consistency  of  jelly.  This  is  a  new  method,  and  approved  by  some  as 
being  excellent  and  economical. 

393.— Indian  Way  of  Making  Calf  s-Poot  Jelly. 

Take  twelve  large  or  full-sized  calves'-feet,  one  pound  or  half  a  seer  of 
sugar,  eight  limes,  two  oranges,  half  a  dozen  blades  of  lemon-grass,  a 
tablespoonful  of  mixed  spices  (say  cinnamon,  cardamoms,  mace,  nutmeg, 
and  cloves),  six  eggs,  a  handful  of  isinglass,  and  a  claretglassful  of  sherry. 
Having  thoroughly  washed  the  feet,  break  them  up  and  boil  them ;  allow 
all  the  meat  to  dissolve  over  a  slow  fire,  skim  away  every  particle  of  fat, 
and  strain  the  liquid  through  a  coarse  napkin ;  add  the  sugar,  all  the  hot 
spices,  and  the  rinds  of  two  lemons  and  one  orange  ;  simmer  the  whole 
for  some  time,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  the  eight  limes  and  the  two 
oranges,  together  with  the  isinglass  and  lemon-grass,  and  when  it  begins 
to  thicken  strain  it ;  then  reboil  until  it  is  reduced  to  the  required  quan- 
tity, skimming  all  the  fat.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  six  eggs  to  a  good 
light  froth  ;  add  this  to  the  jelly,  and  pour  it  from  one  pan  into  another 
several  times,  until  it  clears  ;  then  add  the  sherry  and  strain  it  through 
flannel,  returning  it  quickly  two  or  three  times  until  it  runs  per- 
fectly bright  and  clear ;  fill  iiato  glasses  or  moulds  before  it  congeab. 


THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK.  67 


HOME-MADE  LIQUEURS. 

394.— Cream  of  Citron. 

Put  sixty  drops  of  the  oil  of  citron  into  a  quart  of  spirits  of  wine  of 
the  strength  of  sixty-two  degrees  overproof ;  shake  it  well,  mix  with  it 
a  quaTt  of  syrup  and  two  ounces  of  yellow  colouring  matter,  and  filter 
the  whole  thVough  filtering-paper.  If  not  sufficiently  bright,  filter  it  a 
second  time  through  some  fresh  paper,  and  bottle  it. 


395— Cream  of  Cloves. 

To  a  quart  of  spirits  of  wine  of  the  strength  given  in  the  foregoing 
recipe  add  forty  drops  of  oil  of  cloves ;  shake  it  well,  and  mix  with  it  a 
quart  of  syrup,  and  as  much  yellow  colouring  matter  as  will  give  it  a 
good  colour ;  filter  through  filtering-paper  and  bottle  immediately.  It  is 
a  delightful  liqueur,  and  is  excellent  for  relaxed  throats. 


396.— Cream  of  Noyau. 

To  a  quart  of  spirits  of  wine  sixty-two  degrees  overproof  add  twenty 
drops  of  good  essential  oil  of  bitter  almonds  and  six  drops  of  oil  of 
orange ;  sliake  it  well,  and  add  a  quart  of  syrup ;  filter  it  through  paper 
until  it  is  quite  clear. 

397.— Pink  Noyau. 

To  a  quart  of  spirits  of  wine  sixty-two  degrees  overproof  add  fifteen 
drops  of  essential  oil  of  bitter  almonds,  three  drops  of  oil  of  roses,  four 
drops  of  oil  of  aniseed,  and  one  drop  of  tincture  of  vanilla;  shake  it 
well,  and  mix  with  it  a  quart  of  syrup  and  a  sufficient  quantity  of  pink 
colouring  matter  to  make  it  of  a  delicate  pink  colour :  bottle  it  after 
iHtering. 

398.— Cream  of  Aniseed. 

Put  twenty  drops  of  essential  oil  of  aniseed  in  a  quart  of  spirits  of 
wine ;  after  shaking  it  well,  mix  with  it  a  quart  of  syrup ;  filter  and  put 
it  in  bottles. 

399.— Cream  of  Cinnamon. 

To  a  quart  of  spirits  of  wine  add  two  drops  of  oil  of  cinnamon  and 
two  of  oil  of  roses ;  shake  it  well  until  the  oil  has  thoroughly  dissolved, 
and  add  a  quart  of  syrup  and  a  sufficient  quantity  of  red  tincture  to  pro- 
duce a  bright  full  colour ;  it  may  then  be  filtered  and  bottled.  This  is 
an  agreeable  liqueur,  and  beneficial  to  dyspeptic  persons. 

H 


W  THE  INDIAN    COOKE.RY  B0OK> 

^  400.— Rose  Cream. 

Into  a  quart  of  spirits  of  wine  put  twelve  drops  of  the  oil  of  roses  and 
three  of  oil  of  nutmeg ;  shake  the  mixture  well  until  the  oils  are  dis- 
solved, and  add  a  quart  of  syrup,  and  a  sufficient  quantity  of  pink  tincture 
to  produce  a  fine  rose-colour  :  filter  and  bottle. 

401.— Cream  of  Mint. 

Drop  into  a  quart  of  spirits  of  wine  twenty-five  drops  of  oil  of  mint  and 
three  of  oil  of  citron ;  shake  it  well,  and  add  a  quart  of  syrup  and  as 
much  green  colouring  tincture  as  may  be  necessary  :  filter  and  bottle. 

402.— Cream  of  Vanilla. 

Put  twelve  drops  of  tincture  of  vanilla  into  a  quart  of  spirits  of  wine ; 
shake  it  well,  and  add  a  quart  of  syrup;  when  well  mixed,  let  it  stand 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  filter  it  two  or  three  times  through  filter- 
ing paper,  but  do  not  filter  again  if  it  comes  out  bright  and  clear  the  first 
time.    This  is  a  most  delicious  cordial. 


403.— Golden  Wasser  or  Dantzie  Brandy. 

To  a  quart  of  spirits  of  wine  add  twelve  drops  of  oil  of  aniseed,  six  of 
oil  of  cinnamon,  three  of  oil  of  roses,  and  eight  of  oil  of  citron  ;  shake  it 
well  until  the  oils  dissolve  ;  then  add  a  quart  of  syrup,  and  filter  through 
filtering-paper  :  before  bottling  the  liqueur,  stir  into  it  a  few  squares  of 
leaf-gold  cut  into  very  little  bits. 

404.— Curacao. 

Boil  a  quart  of  water  in  a  very  clean  pan,  and  add  to  it,  bit  by  bit,  a 
pound  of  dark  brown  sugar-candy  ;  when  the  latter  is  dissolved,  increase 
the  fire  and  let  the  syrup  boil  up ;  then  pour  it  into  a  deep  dish  to  cool ; 
dissolve  a  hundred  and  twenty  drops  of  oil  of  bitter  orange  in  a  quart  of 
spirits  of  wine  sixty-two  degrees  overproof,  and  mix  with  the  syrup  when 
quite  cold;  then  filter  and  bottle  the  liqueur. 

This  is  a  most  difficult  liqueur  to  filter  of  a  clear  bright  colour;  indeed, 
all  liqueurs  in  which  essential  oils  extracted  from  peals  of  the  lemon  tnbe 
are  used  become  so  opaque  on  being  mixed  with  syrup  that  the  filtering 
is  rendered  a  most  tedious  undertaking. 

The  proportions  given  in  the  above  recipes  are  for  the  production  of 
really  good  strong  liqueurs,  which  will  keep  good  for  years,  and  improve 
by  age.  Liqueurs  for  immediate  consumption  need  not  be  made  quite 
so  strong,  two  parts  of  syrup  and  one  of  spirits  of  wine  will  usually  be 
sufficient ;  but  consumers  will  be  the  best  judges  of  their  own  tastes. 
A  caution  is  very  necessary  against  the  free^  use  of  the  essential  oils : 
they  are  all  harmless  m  moderation,  but  poison  if  used  in  excess,  and 
some  more  powerful  than  others. 


THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK.  99 


405.— Punch  a  la  Romain. 

Squeeze  the  juice  out  of  eight  juicy  limes  and  four  lemons  or  oranges 
strain  it  through  muslin,  and  well  mix  with  it  two  pounds  of  the  best 
loaf  sugar ;  beat  to  a  light  froth  the  whites  of  ten  fresh  eggs,  and  add 
gradu&lly  to  the  sugared  juice;  pour  the  whole  into  a  pewter  vessel,  and 
place  it  in  a  tub  containing  two  seers  of  cutcha,  or  raw  ice,  stirring  it 
frequently  to  make  it  congeal.  Ice  two  quarts  of  champagne,  and  when 
required  add  it  to  the  contents  of  the  pewter  vessel;  mix  all  well 
together,  and  serve  in  green  or  amber-coloured  hock  glasses.  The  ad- 
dition of  a  little  rum  is  considered  an  improvement. 

406. — Mint  Beer.  v^ 

Put  some  bruised  fresh-gathered  mint-leaves  into  a  large  tankard, 
and  pour  over  them  a  bottle  of  beer  well  iced,  and  a  soda-water  bottle  of 
sparkKng  lemonade,  also  well  iced ;  or  use  bottled  mint-juice  if  the 
beer  and  lemonade  have  not  been  iced,  and  stir  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  crushed  ice. 

407. — Another  Way. 

To  the  juice  or  bruised  leaves  add  sufficient  sugar  to  sweeten,  and 
pour  into  the  tankard  two  tumblers  of  water  and  two  quarts  of  beer ; 
stir  and  serve  up  with  crushed  ice,  or  cool  the  beer  and  water  before  the 
preparation. 

408.— Ginger  Beer. 

Use  bruised  green  ginger  instead  of  mint,  and  ginger  beer  instead  of 
lemonade. 

409.— "The  Commander-in-Chief."  \ 

Empty  into  a  punchbowl  a  quart  of  claret  and  a  bottle  of  soda-water ; 
add  a  wineglassful  of  cura9ao,  and  sweeten  to  taste  with  sugar ;  then 
throw  in  a  handful  of  picked  and  bruised  mint-leaves,  with  a  seer  of 
crushed  ice ;  add  a  quart  of  champagne,  stir  briskly,  and  serve  up. 


\ 


410.— Regent  Punch. 

Mix  a  quart  of  sparkling  champagne,  a  claretglassful  of  brandy,  a 
wineglassful  of  old  Jamaica  rum,  and  a  pint  of  very  strong  pure  green 
tea;  sweeten  to  taste  with  capillaire  or  any  other  syrup. 

411.— Milk  Punch. 

Six  quarts  of  rum  and  one  of  brandy,  one  quart  of  lime-juice,  two  seers  \ 

of  soft  sugar,  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  two  seers  of  pure  milk,  the  rinds 
of  forty  limes,  and  three  nutmegs  will  make  twelve  quarts  of  punch,  at. 
follows  :— 

Steep  for  two  days  in  a  bottle  of  the  rum  the  peels  of  the  forty  limes ; 
boil  in  the  three  quarts  of  water  the  two  seers  of  soft  sugsx,  and  grate  ia 

H  2 


100  THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK. 

the  nutmeg ;  pour  all  the  rum  and  syrup  into  a  large  vessel,  and  add 
gradually  the  quart  of  lime-juice  and  two  seers  of  milk,  boiling  hot,  stir- 
ring the  whole  time ;  let  it  stand  for  an  hour  or  two,  then  strain  through 
flannel  several  times  until  it  drips  clear,  and  bottle. 

412. — Another  Way, 

Sixteen  bottles  of  rum,  three  bottles  of  brandy,  four  bottles  of  lime- 
juice,  eight  bottles  of  milk,  twelve  bottles  of  water,  eight  seers  of  sugar, 
eight  nutmegs,  and  the  rinds  of  eighty  limes,  will  make  thirty-six  quarts 
of  milk  punch,  but  of  a  milder  quality  than  the  foregoing. 

The  addition  of  a  bottle  of  cura9ao  to  milk  punch  is  a  great  improve- 
ment :  it  may  be  added  after  the  milk  and  lime-juice. 

413— Gringer  Pop. 

Boil  an  ounce  of  well-bruised  green  ginger  cleaned  of  all  rind,  an  ounce 
of  cream  of  tartar,  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  some  toddy,  and  some  of  the 
rind  and  all  the  juice  of  a  large  lime,  in  four  quarts  of  water,  for  twenty 
minutes ;  when  nearly  cold,  add  a  claretglassful  of  good  fresh  toddy:  let 
it  stand  for  six  hours,  and  then  put  into  soda-water  bottles.  It  will  fill 
eight  or  nine  bottles. 

414— Imperial  Pop, 

Take  three  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar,  an  ounce  of  bruised  ginger,  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  white  sugar,  and  an  ounce  of  lemon-juice,  and  pour 
a  gallon  and  a  half  of  boiling  water  on  them,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
yeast.    Mix,  bottle,  and  tie  down  the  corks  as  usual. 

415-— Negus.       O 

^  To  two  quarts  of  claret  or  one  of  port  add  a  wineglassful  of  brandy,  two 
limes  cut  into  thin  slices,  a  slight  grating  of  nutmeg,  a  few  cloves,  carda- 
moms, and  sticks  of  cinnamon,  two  teacupfuls  of  boiling  water,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

416.— Plash.  ( 

Mix  half  a  pint  of  lemon  ice  with  a  wineglassful  of  Jamaica  rum ;  pour 
over  it,  stirring  briskly,  a  bottle  of  iced  ginger  beer ;  drink  it  while  it  is 
effervescing. 

417-— Sherry  Cobbler.  | 

Pour  into  a  tumbler  two  wineglassfuls  of  sherry,  half  a  wineglassful  of 
rum,  and  half  a  wineglassful  of  maraschino;  add  half  an  orange  sliced  fine, 
and  fill  the  tumbler  with  crushed  ice ;  take  the  preparation  through  a 
reed,  quiU,  or  common  straw. 

418.— Apricot  Effervescing  Drink. 

Pilter  until  clear  a  pint  of  the  juice  of  bruised  apricots,  and  make  Into 
a  syrup  with  half  a  pound  of  sugar ;  then  add  an  ounce  of  tartaric  acid ; 


THE  INDIAN  COOKEEY  BOOK.  101 

bottle,  and  cork  well.  To  a  tumbler  three  parts  full  of  water  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  syrup  and  a  scruple  of  carbonate  of  soda ;  stir  well, 
and  drink  while  effervescing. 

0 
419. —Mint  Julep.  ^ 

Put  about  a  dozen  of  the  young  sprigs  of  mint  into  a  tumbler ;  add  a  ^ 

tablespoonful  of  white  sugar,  half  a  wineglassful  ^  of  peach,  and  the 
same  of  common  brandy ;  then  fill  up  the  tumbler  with  pounded  ice. 

420. —Orangeade.  ^ 

Squeeze  out  the  juice  of  an  orange ;  pour  boiling  water  on  a  little  of 
the  peel,  and  cover  it  close  ;  boil  water  and  sugar  to  a  thin  syrup,  and 
skim  it ;  when  cold,  mix  all  together  with  as  much  water  as  will  make  a 
rich  drink ;  strain  through  a  jelly-bag,  and  ice. 

421.— Orgeat. 

Blanch  and'pound  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sweet  and  thirty  bitter 
almonds  with  a  tablespoonful  of  water ;  stir  in  by  degrees  two  pints  of 
water  and  three  pints  of  milk,  and  strain  the  whole  through  a  cloth ; 
dissolve  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  in  a  pint  of  water ;  boil,  skim  well, 
and  mix  with  the  almond- water,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  orange- 
flower  water  and  a  teacupful  of  good  brandy. 

422.— Poor  Man's  Champagne. 

Put  a  pint  of  Scotch  ale  into  a  jug,  and  add  a  bottle  of  good  ginger 
beer. 

423.— Royal  Lemonade. 

Pare  two  oranges  and  six  lemons  as  thin  as  possible,  and  steep  them 
four  hours  in  a  quart  of  hot  water ;  boil  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  loaf 
sugar  in  three  pints  of  water ;  skim  it  and  add  to  the  two  liquors  the 
juice  of  six  oranges  and  a  dozen  lemons;  stir  well;  strain  through  a  jelly- 
bag,  and  ioe. 

424.— Summer  Beverage. 

Pour,  while  ^  hot,  two^  quarts  of  barley-water,  made  as  in  recipe 
426,  on  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon  very  thinly  cut ;  to  which  add 
honey,  capillaire,  or  sugar,  according  to  taste ;  let  it  stand  one  hour  and 
strain. 

425.— Lemon  Barley-water.  \ 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  barley,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lump  sugar, 
rather  more  than  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  the  peel  of  a  fresh 
lemon  make  a  pleasant  drink  for  summer.  It  should  stand  all  night,  and 
be  strained  the  next  morning. 


102  THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOS, 


MEDICINAL  AND  OTHER  RECIPES. 

426.— Barley-water  for  the  Sick  Chamber. 

Mix  smoothly  a  teaspoonful  of  Robinson's  patent  barley  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cold  spring  water  into  a  smooth  paste,  and  gradually  add  a 
quart  of  boiling  water;  boil  it  gently  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  constantly, 
and  strain  when  cold. 


427.— To  Cure  the  Sting  of  a  Wasp. 

Oil  of  tartar  or  solution  of  potash  applied  to  the  part  affected  will 
give  instant  relief. 


428.— To  Cure  Deafness  from  Deficient  Secretion  of 
Wax. 

Mix  half  a  drachm  of  oil  of  turpentine  and  two  drachms  of  olive  oil 
Put  two  drops  into  the  ear  at  bedtime. 


429.— Cure  for  Cramp  in  the  Legs. 

Stretch  out  the  heels  and  draw  up  the  toes  as  far  as  possible.    This 
will  often  stop  a  fit  of  the  cramp  after  it  has  commenced. 


430.— Emetic  Draught. 

Mix  one  grain  of  emetic  tartar,  fifteen  grains  of  powder  of  ipecacuanha, 
and  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  water.  This  is  commonly  employed  for 
unloading  the  stomach  on  the  accession  of  fevers,  and  in  ordinary 
cases.  *- 

431. — Another  Recipe, 

Mix  ten  grains  of  blue  vitriol  (sulphate  of  copper)  and  two  ounces  of 
distilled  water. 

432. — Another  Recipe. 

Por  a  draught  to  be  taken  directly,  mix  a  scruple  of  subcarbonate  of 
ammonia,  half  a  drachm  of  ipecacuanha  in  powder,  three  ounces 
of  peppermint  water,  and  two  drachms  of  tincture  of  cayenne  pepper. 
In  case  of  poisoning,  this  is  said  to  be  more  certain  and  effectual 
fin  arousing  the  action  of  the  stomach  than  either  of  the  preceding 
draughts. 


THE   INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK.  103 


433— Cure  for  Tic-doloreux  or  Neuralgia. 

Mix  half  a  pint  of  rose-water  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  vinegar. 
Apply  it  to  the  part  affected  three  or  four  times  a  day:  fresh  linen  should 
be  used  at  each  application.  This  will,  in  two  or  three  days,  gradually 
take  the  pain  away. 

^  At  least  three  hundred  "  infallible  cures  "  for  tic-doloreux  have  been 
discovered,  but  the  disease  arises  from  such  various  causes  that^  no 
remedy  can  be  relied  upon.  Carbonate  of  iron  cures  one ;  quinine, 
another ;  upon  a  third  neither  has  any  effect.  The  remedy  above  sugges- 
ted, althougli  safe  and  simple,  takes  time  to  afford  relief.  Ten  to  twenty 
drops  of  CoUis  Browne's  chlorodyne  have  been  found  from  repeated 
experience  to  afford  nearly  instantaneous  relief,  and  in  some  cases 
subject  to  periodical  return  to  have  effected  almost  perfect  cures. 

434.— To  Cure  Hiccough  or  Hiccup. 

This  spasm  is  caused  by  flatulency,  indigestion,  and  acidity.  ^  It  may 
generally  be  relieved  by  a  sudden  fright  or  surprise,  or  the  application  of 
cold,  also  by  swallowing  two  or  three  mouthfuls  of  cold  water  or  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  or  by  eating  a  small  piece  of  ice,  taking  a  pinch  of 
snuff,  or  anything  that  excites  coughing. 

435 —Cure  for  Colds. 

Total  abstinence  from  liquid  food  of  any  kind  for  a  day  or  two  (known      ^ 
as  the  dry  system)  has  been  known  to  cure  coughs  and  colds  where  it  has 
been  j^^severed  in. 

436— Mixture  for  Recent  Coughs. 

Mix  five  ounces  of  honey,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  treacle,  and  seven 
ounces  of  best  vinegar,  and  simmer  in  a  common  pipkin  for  fifteen 
minutes ;  remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  when  the  mixture  has  become 
lukewarm,  add  two  drachms  of  ipecacuanha  wine.  The  dose  is  a  table- 
spoonful  every  four  hours  for  adults.  This  is  one  of  the  best  mixtures 
known  for  recent  cough,  and,  on  account  of  its  pleasant  taste,  is  particu- 
larly eligible  for  children  and  infants. 

437.— Emulsion  for  Recent  Coughs. 

Mix  an  ounce  of  oil  of  sweet  almonds,  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  fivi  ounces 
of  orange-flower  water,  half  an  ounce  of  mucilage  of  gum  Arabic,  a 
drachm  and  a  half  of  ipecacuanha  wine,  and  half  an  ounce  of  syrup  of 
mar shm allows.  ^  The  dose  is  a  tablespoonful  when  the  cough  is  trouble- 
some.   Half  this  quantity  may  be  given  to  young  children. 

438.— Emulsion  for  Old  Coughs. 

Rub  well  two  drachms  of  gum  ammoniac,  gradually  adding  half  a  pint 
of  water ;  when  they  are  thoroughly  mixed,  strain  them  through  linen. 


104  THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK. 

This  is  a  useful  expectorant  in  old  coughs  and  asthmas,  when  no  inflam- 
matoi7  symptoms  are  present.  The  dose  is  from  one  to  two  tablespoon- 
fuls,  united  with  an  equal  quantity  of  almond  emulsion. 


439— Cure  for  Hooping-cough.. 

Dissolve  a  scruple  of  salts  of  tartar  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  water;  add 
ten  grains  of  cochineal,  and  sweeten  with  sugar.  Give  to  an  infant  the 
fourth  part  of  a  tablespooDful  four  times  a  day ;  two  years  old,  half  a 
spoonful ;  from  four  years,  a  tablespoonful. 


440.— Koche's  Embrocation  for  Hooping-cough. 

^  Mix  eight  ounces  of  olive  oil,  four  ounces  of  oil  of  amber,  and  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  oil  of  cloves  to  scent  it  strongly.  This  is  the  same  as 
the  famous  embrocation  of  Koche.  When  rubbed  on  the  chest,  it 
stimulates  the  skin  gently,  and  is  sometimes  serviceable  in  hooping-cough 
and  the  other  coughs  of  children.  In  hooping-cough  it  should  not  be 
used  for  the  first  ten  days  of  the  disease. 


441.— Valuable  Lotion  for  Hooping-cough,  &o. 

Dissolve  one  drachm  of  em.etic  tartar  in  two  ounces  of  common  water, 
and  add  half  an  ounce  of  tincture  of  Spanish  fly.  This  is  a  valuable  lotion 
in  the  advanced  stages  of  hooping-cough,  and  is  of  much  service  in  all 
other  coughs,  both  of  adults  and  children.  It  is  often  very  useful  in  re- 
moving the  distressing  cough  and  oppression  of  the  chest  left  after  the 
hoop  has  quitted  the  patient.  After  it  has  been  rubbed  into  the  chest 
night  and  morning  for  about  a  week,  it  will  create  a  redness,  and  bring 
out  some  small  pustules ;  it  should  then  be  applied  only  once  a  day,  and 
if  the  part  becomes  very  sore,  it  may  be  laid  aside  altogether,  and  the 
pustules  anointed  twice  a  day  with  simple  white  ointment.  In  very 
severe  cases,  however,  it  will  be  necessary  to  continue  the  use  of  this 
lotion  until  a  large  number  of  pustules  appear ;  and  if  they  are  kept 
discharging  freely  by  an  occasional  use  of  it,  the  relief  will  be  more 
striking  and  permanent. 

442.— Warm  Plaster. 

Melt  together  with  a  moderate  heat  one  part  of  blistering  plaster  and 
fourteen  of  Burgundy  pitch,  and  mix  them  so  as  to  form  a  plaster.  This 
will  be  stimulant,  and  create  a  slight  irritation  on  the  part  to  which  it  is 
appHed.  It  is  used  with  advantage  in  common  cough,  hooping-cough, 
sciatica,  and  local  pain. 


443-— G-argle  for  Irritation  and  Inflammation  in  the  Throat, 

Mix  two  drachms  of  purified  nitre,  seven  ounces  of  barley-water,  and 
seven  drachms  of  acetate  of  honey.,    Use  frequently. 


THE  INDIAN   COOKEEY  BOOK.  107 

drachms  of  compound  tincture  of  camphor,  and  three  or  four  drops  of  oil 
of  caraways.  Take  two  tablespoonfuls  every  three  hours,  or  oftener  if 
the  pain  and  purging  be  urgent ;  a  teaspoonful  is  a  dose  for  young 
children,  and  one  tablespoonfal  for  those  of  ten  or  twelve  years  of 
age. 

459.— Compound  Infusion  of  Senna, 

Macerate  for  an  hour  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  in  a  lightly  covered 
vessel,  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  senna-leaves  and  a  drachm  of  sliced  ginger- 
root,  and  strain  the  liquor.  This  is  a  useful  purging  infusion,  in  common 
use  among  medical  men.  It  is  usually  given  in  conjunction  with  a  little 
Epsom  or  Glauber's  salts,  and  forms  a  purging  mixture  of  great  service  m 
all  acute  diseases. 

460.— -Warm  Purgative  Tincture. 

Put  three  ounces  of  senna-leaves,  three  drachms  of  bruised  caraway- 
seeds,  a  drachm  of  cardamom-seeds,  and  four  ounces  of  stoned  raisins 
into  two  pints  of  best  brandy ;  macerate  for  fourteen  days  in  a  gentle 
heat,  and  filter.  This  is  quite  equal  to  the  celebrated  Daffy's  elixir,  and 
is  similar  to  the  tincture  of  senna  sold  at  the  shops.  It  is  stomachic  and 
purgative,  and  is  beneficially  employed  in  flatulency,  pains  in  the  bowels, 
gouty  habits,  and  as  an  opening  medicine  for  those  whose  bowels  have 
been  weakened  by  intemperance.  The  dose  is  one,  two,  or  three  table- 
spoonfuls,  in  any  agreeable  vehicle. 


461.— Tonic  Aperient  Mixture. 

Mix  three  ounces  and  a  half  each  of  decoction  of  bark  and  infusion  of 
senna,  three  drachms  of  sulphate  of  potash,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
compound  tincture  of  bark.  Take  three  tablespoonfuls  once  or  twice  a 
day,  so  as  to  keep  the  bowels  regular;  or  it  may  be  used  only  occasionally, 
when  an  aperient  is  required. 

462.— Mild  Aperient  Pills. 

Beat  into  a  mass  and  divide  into  twelve  pills  half  a  drachm  of 
compound  extract  of  colocynth,  a  scruple  of  compound  rhubarb  pill,  ten 
drains  of  Castillo  soap,  and  five  drops  of  oil  of  juniper.  These  are 
excellent  aperient  pills  for  occasional  use  in  costiveness,  bilious 
affections,  and  on  all  ordinary  occasions,  and  are  suited  to  the  relief  of 
these  complaints  in  children  as  well  as  in  adults.  One  pill  taken 
at  bedtime  is  generally  sufficient,  but  some  persons  may  require  two. 

463.— Digestive  Aperient  Pills. 

Well  rub  thirty-six  or  forty  grains  of  socotrine  aloes  with  eighteen 
^ains  of  gum^  mastic,  and  add  twenty-four  grains  each  of  compound 
extract  of  gentian  and  compound  galbanum  pill,  and  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  oil  of  aniseed  to  make  twenty  pills.  Take  two  or  three,  an  hour  before 
dinner,  or  at  night.    They  are  stomacliic  and  aperient,  containing  an 


108  THE   INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK. 

antispasmodic,  and  producing  usually  a  Ml  feculent  evacuation.  They 
are  very  suitable  to  persons  who  have  no  vital  energy  to  spare, 
and  require  a  medicine  which  will  operate  mildly,  surely,  and  safely. 


464.— Worm  Powder. 

Hub  well  together  two  or  three  grains  of  calomel  and  ten  grains  of 
compound  powder  of  scammony.  This  is  an  efficacious  powder  for  the 
expulsion  of  worms  from  children  and  adults,  and  may  be  given  twice  a 
week,  or  oftener,  till  the  object  be  accomplished. 

465.— Infallible  Cure  for  Tapeworm. 

Take  of  the  plant  GiseUa  pharmaceoides^  in  its  green,  fresh  state, 
leaves,  stalks,  seeds,  and  seed-capsules  (if  the  plant  be  in  seed  or  forming 
its  seed-vessels)  indiscriminately  one  pound,  and  grind  it  down  with 
sufficient  water  to  render  it  liquid.  It  should  be  administered  to  the 
patient  after  twelve  hours  of  tasting,  and  repeated  on  the  fourth  and 
eighth  days.  As  a  precautionary  measure,  to  destroy  any  latent  germs, 
repeat  the  dose  in  eight  days  more.  The  Gisekia  is  free  of  every  poison- 
ous quality :  it  .simply  possesses  an  acrid  volatile  principle,  fatal  alone  to 
the  tapeworm,  and  is  in  no  way  distressing  to  the  stomach  or  digestive 
organs ._  The  plant  flourishes  most  luxuriantly  in  the  jungles  at  Eeroze- 
pore,  cis-Sutlej  territories,  Cawnpore,  Seharunpore,  Egypt,  Coromandel, 
the  banks  of  the  Irrawaddie,  in  Burmah,  and  throughout  Oiide.  As  a 
specific  it  was  lirst  brought  to  European  notice  by  a  fakeer  at  Eerozepore, ' 
about  the  year  1856. 

N.B. — The  dried  plant  is  useless. 


466.— Cure  for  Ringworm. 

The  parts  should  be  washed  twice  a  day  with  soft  soap  and  warm 
water ;  when  dry,  rub  them  with  a  piece  of  linen  rag  dipped  in  ammonia 
from  gas  tar;  the  patient  should  take  a  little  sulphur  and  treacle,  or  some 
other  gentle  aperient,  every  morning;  brushes  and  combs  should  be 
washed  every  day,  and  the  ammonia  kept  tightly  corked. 

467.— Quinine  Draught. 

Eor  dyspepsia  and  hepatic  derangement  mix  two  grains  of  sulphate  ot 
quinine,  two  drops  of  diluted  sulphuric  acid,  one  drachm  of  spirit 
of  nutmegs,  and  ten  drachms  of  distilled  water,  and  take  daily  at 
midday. 

468.— Seidlitz  Powders. 

Two  drachms  of  tartarized  soda  and  two  scruples  of  bicarbonate  of 
soda  for  the  blue  paper ;  thirty  grains  of  tartaric  acid  for  the  white 
paper. 


7^ 


THE  INDIAN   COOKERY  BOOK.  109 


469.— Ginger^beer  Powders, 

Half  a  drachm  of  bicarbonate  of  soda,  with  a  grain  or  two  of  powdered 
ginger  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  sugar,  for  the  blue  paper ;  twenty- 
five  grains  of  tartaric  acid  for  the  white  paper. 

470.— Lemonade  Powders. 

Omit  the  ginger  powder  from  the  above,  and  to  the  water  add  a  little 
essence  of  lemon  or  lemon-juice. 


PERFUMERY,  COSMETICS,  AND  DENTIFRICE. 

•  471. —Indian  Mode  of  Preparing  Perfumed  Oils. 

The  natives  never  make  use  of  distillation.  The  plan  adopted  is  to 
place  on  a  large  tray  a  layer  of  the  flowers,  about  four  inches  thick  and 
two  feet  square ;  on  this  they  j)ut  some  of  the  til  ov  sesamum  seed, 
wetted  or  damped,  about  two  inches  ^  thick ;  on  this,  again,  is  placed 
another  layer  of  flowers,  four  inches  thick ;  the  whole  is  then  covered 
with  a  sheet,  held  down  by  weights  at  the  sides,  and  allowed  to  remain 
for  eighteen  hours.  The  flowers  are  then  removed  and  replaced  by  layers 
of  fresh  flowers,  and  the  operation  repeated  three  times,  each  layer  of 
fresh  flowers  being  allowed  to  remain  eighteen  hours.  After  the  last 
process,  the  seeds  are  taken  in  their  swollen  state  and  placed  in  a  clean 
mill;  the  oil  then  expressed  possesses  most  fully  the  scent  of  the  flowers. 
It  is  kept  in  prepared  skins,  called  dubbers,  and  sold  at  so  much  per  seer. 
The  jasmine,  bela,  and  chumbrsel  are  the  flowers  from  which  the 
natives  chiefly  produce  the  oil. 


472— Remedy  for  Scurf  in  the  Head. 

Drop  a  lump  of  fresh  quicklime  the  size  of  a  walnut  into  a  pint  of 
water,  and  let  it  stand  all  night;  pour  the  water  off  clear  from  sediment, 
add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  the  best  vinegar,  and  wash  the  head  with 
the  mixture.  It  is  perfectly  harmless ;  only  the  roots  of  the  hair  need 
be  wetted. 

473-— Imitative  Bears'  Grease. 

Melt  together  until  combined  eight  ounces  of  hogs'  lard  and  one-eighth 
of  an  ounce  each  of  flowers  of  benzoin  and  palm  oil ;  stir  until  cold,  attjd 
scent  at  pleasure.    This  will  keep  a  long  time. 


no  THE  INDIAN   COOKERY   BOOK. 


474.— Hair  Grease. 

Dissolve  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lard  in  a  basin  of  boiling  water;  wlien 
cold,  strain  off  the  water  and  squeeze  the  lard  dry  in  a  cloth ;  after  which 
melt  it  in  a  pipkin,  and  mix  well  with  it  three  tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil 
and  enough  palm  oil  to  give  it  a  colour.  When  cold,  or  nearly  so,  scent 
it  and  put  it  into  pots.  A  little  white  wax  may  be  added  to  make  it 
thicker  or  stiffer. 

475— I^omatum.  > 

Take  a  pound  of  white  mutton  suet,  well  boiled  in  a  quart  of  hot  water, 
and  washed  to  free  it  from  salt,  &c. ;  when  dried,  melt  it  with  half  a 
pound  of  fresh  lard  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bees'  wax ;  pour  it  into 
an  earthen  vessel,  and  stir  till  it  is  cold ;  then  beat  into  it  fifteen  drops  of 
oil  of  cloves,  or  any  essential  oil  whose  scent  is  preferred.  If  too  hard, 
use  less  wax. 

476. — Another  Recipe. 

Take  four  ounces  of  lard,  an  ounce  of  castor  oil,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  spermaceti,  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  salad  oil,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
white  wax,  a  drachm  and  a  half  of  tincture  of  lytse,  and  twenty  drops  of 
oil  of  roses,  verbena,  bergamot,  or  cloves.  Melt  the  wax,  spermaceti. 
and  lard  with  the  oils  in  a  glazed  earthen  pipkin,  and  when  nearly  cold 
add  the  scent. 


477-— Pomade  for  Hair  that  is  Falling  off. 

Take  eight  ounces  of  beef  marrow,  twenty-two  drops  of  tincture  of 
cantharides,  sixty  grains  of  sugar  of  lead,  an  ounce  of  spirits  of  wine,  and 
twenty  drops  of  oil  of  bergamot.  Boil  the  marrow  in  the  bone,  and  mix 
the  prescribed  quantity,  free  of  bone  and  fibre,  with  the  other  ingredients, 
excepting  the  scent,  which  is  to  be  added  last  of  all ;  if  any  other  scent 
be  preferred,  the  bergamot  may  be  omitted. 


47S— Pomade  Divine. 

This  IS  a  capital  pomade  for  rubbing  into  bruises,  or  to  give  relief  in 
any  similar  hurt : — Take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  beef  marrow,  which  will 
be  the  produce  of  six  or  eight  bones  ;  clear  it  thoroughly  from  bone  and 
fibre,  and  put  it  in  an  earthen  vessel  of  spring  water ;  change  the  water 
every  night  and  morning  for  eight  or  ten  days ;  then  steep  the  marrow 
in  a  pint  of  rose-water  for  twenty-four  hours,  and  drain  it  dry  through  a 
linen  cloth.  Take  an  ounce  of  flowers  of  benzoin,  cyprus-root,  odorifer- 
ous thorn,  and  Florentine  iris -root,  half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  and 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  each  of  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Pound  all  these  very 
fine,  and  mix  them  well  with  the  marrow  ;  then  put  all  into  a  pewter 
digester  which  holds  three  pints,  and  let  the  top  be  closely  fitted. 
Spread  on  linen  a  paste  made  of  flour  and  white  of  %^g^  and  fix  it  over 
the  top  so  that  there  can  be  no  evaporation.  Suspend  the  digester  by 
the  handles  in  the  middle  of  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  keep  it  boiling. 


THE   INDIAN    COOKEKY  BOOK.  Ill 

adding  more  boiling  water  as  often  as  necessary.  Strain  the 
pomade  into  small  wide-mouthed  bottles,  and  cover  it  down  when  quite 
cold. 

479. — Another  'Recipe, 

Take  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  beef  marrow ;  clean  it  well  from 
bone  and  fibre,  aud  wash  it  in  water  fresh  from  the  spring,  which  must 
be  changed  night  and  morning  for  ten  days  ;  then  steep  it  in  rose-water 
for  twenty-four  hours,  and  drain  it.  Take  half  an  ounce  each  of  storax, 
gum  benjamin,  and  odoriferous  cyprus-powder,  two  drachms  of  cinnamon, 
and  a  drachm  of  cloves.  Let  these  ingredients  be  all  powdered  and  well 
mixed  with  the  marrow,  and  put  them  in  a  pewter  pot  which  holds  about  a 
pint  and  a  half.  Make  a  paste  of  white  of  ^%^  and  flour,  and  lay  it  on  a 
piece  of  linen,  and  place  a  second  linen  to  cover  the  pot  very  tight  and 
keep  in  the  steam.  Place  the  pot  in  a  copper  vessel  of  water,  and  keep 
it  steady,  so  that  the  water  may  not  reach  or  touch  the  covering.  As  the 
water  evaporates,  add  more,  boiling  hot,  and  keep  it  boiling  four  hours 
without  ceasing.  Strain  the  pomade  into  small  jars  or  boules,  and  cork 
when  quite  cold.    Take  care  to  touch  it  only  with  silver. 

480.— Bandoline  for  the  Hair. 

Mix  two  ounces  of  olive  oil  with  one  drachm  each  of  spermaceti  and 
oil  of  bergamot ;  heat  and  strain ;  then  beat  in  six  drops  of  otto  of  roses. 
If  colour  be  desired,  add  half  a  drachm  of  annatto. 

481.— Dentifrice. 

Scrape  as  much  whiting  to  a  fine  powder  as  will  fill  a  pint^  pot ; 
moisten  two  ounces  of  camphor  with  a  few  drops  of  brandy,  rub  it  into  a 
powder^  and  mix  with  the  whiting  half  an  ounce  of  powdered  myrrh. 
i>ott]e  it,  and  keep  it  well  corked  down,  taking  small  quantities  out  in  a 
separate  bottle  for  daily  use. 

482. — Another  Recipe, 

Dissolve  two  ounces  of  borax  in  three  pints  of  boiling  water ;  before 
quite  cold,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  tincture  of  myrrh  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
spirits  of  camphor :  bottle  the  mixture  for  use.  ^  One  wineglassful  of  the 
solution,  with  half  a  pint  of  tepid  water,  is  sufficient  for  each  application. 
Applied  daily,  it  preserves  and  beautifies  ^  the  teeth,  extirpates  all 
tartarous  adhesion,  produce-  a  pearMike  ufhiteness,  arrests  decay,  and 
induces  a  healthy  action  in  tiic  guiua. 

483. — Another  Recipe. 

No  dentifrice  in  the  world  can  equal  that  of  powdered  betel-nut  if 
properly  prepared,  but  very  few  know  how  to  do  this  :  the  nuts  should 
not  be  burnt,  but  sliced  and  roasted,  like  coffee,  to  a  rich  brown  colour, 
and  then  pulverized  and  passed  through  fine  muslin ;  the  grit  should 
then  be  repounded  and  strained  through  muslin,  and  this  operation  con- 


112  THE  INDIAN  COOKERY  BOOK. 

tinued  until  all  the  powder  is  finely  sifted.  The  colour,  instead  of  beini? 
black,  like  charcoal,  should  be  a  fine  rich  chocolate-colour.  The 
dentifrice  may  then  be  used  just  as  it  is,  or  tincture  of  myrrh  and 
camphor  and  eau  de  Cologne  may  be  added  to  it. 


484-— Rose  Lip-salve. 

Take  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  spermaceti,  nine  drachms  of  white  wax, 
twelve  ounces  of  oil  of  sweet  almonds,  two  ounces  of  alkanet-root,  and 
one  drachm  of  otto  of  roses ;  digest  the  first  four  ingredients  with  the 
heat  of  boiling  water  for  four  hours,  then  strain  through  flannel,  and  add 
the  otto  of  roses. 

485.— Essence  of  Roses. 

Mix  two  drachms  of  otto  of  roses  and  a  pint  of  rectified  spirits  of 
wine. 

486.— Essence  of  Lemon-peel. 

Steep  six  ounces  of  lemon-peel,  cut  very  thin  and  without  any 
particle  of  the  white  skin,  in  eight  ounces  of  spirits  of  wine  well 
corked. 

487.— Eau  de  Cologne. 

Put  twelve  drops  each  of  oil  of  neroli,  citron,  bergamot,  orange, 
and  rosemary,  and  a  drachm  of  cardamom-seeds,  into  a  pint  of  spirits  01 
wine,  and  let  it  stand  for  a  week. 


488.— Lavender-water. 

Mix  two  drachms  of  oil  of  lavender,  half  a  draclim  of  oil  of  bergamot, 
ft  drachm  of  essence  of  musk,  thirteen  ounces  of  spirits  of  wine,  and  ifivp. 
ounces  of  water,  and  let  it  stand  a  week. 


IxNDEX. 


BURTAS  OR  MASHES. 

Brinjal  burta,  33 
Cold  corned-beef  burta,  34 
Cold  ham  burta,  34 
Cold  tongue  burta,  34 
Dry  fish  burta,  33 
Ureen  mango  burta,  31 
Potato  burta,  33 
Red  herring  burta,  34 
Tomato  burta,  34 


CURRIE3, 
Bhahjees,  31 
Bringalbhahjee,  31 
Pulwal  bhahjee,  31 

€hahkees,  29 
Pulwal,  potatoes,  and  torrie,  29 
Red  pumpkin  and  tamarind,  29 
Beam,  potato,  and  peas,  29 
Tomato,  plain,  30 
Tomato  with  tamarind,  30 
White  pumpkin  and  tamarind,  29 

,  plain,  cut  small, 

30 

Country  Captain,  20 
Chicken  country  captain,  20 
Jhal  frezee,  20 
Kid  country  captain,  20 
Veal  country  captain,  20 

Dal  or  Peas  Curries,  32 
Dalfoolaree,  33 
Moong  dal,  32 
Mussoor  dal  chur  churree,  32 

— with  amchoor  or  with 

tamarind,  32 
Muasoor  or  red  dal,  32 


DOOPIAJAS,  16 

Beef  doopiaja,  17 
Chicken  doopiaja,  16 
Cold  boiled  pork  doopiaja,  17 
Duck  doopiaja,  17 
Kid  doopiaja,  16 
Mutton  doopiaja,  17 
Pigeons,  doopiaja  of,  17 
Udder  and  beef  doopiaja,  17 

doopiaja,  17 

Veal  doopiaja,  17 

Egg  Curry,  28 
Egg  curry  with  chunna  ka  dal,  29 
with  green  peas,  29 

Forcemeat   Ball   Curries,    or 
Cofta-ka-Carree,  18 

Beef  forcemeat  ball  curry,  18 
Chicken  forcemeat  ball  curry,  18 
Crab  cofta  curry,  19 
Fish  cofta  curry,  19 
Liver  and  udder,  ball  curry  of,  19 
Lobster  cofta  curry,  19 
Mutton  forcemeat  ball  curry,  18 
Prawn  cofta  curry,  19 

Gravy  Curries,  15 

Beef  curry,  15 
Chicken  curry,  15 
Kid  curry,  15 
Green  duck  curry,  16 
Mutton  curry,  15 
Veal  curry,  15 
Young  pigeon  curry,  16 

Gravy  Fish  Curries,  27 
Beckty  fish  gravy  curry,  28 
< ,  sliced,  fried  in  curry 

condiments,  28 


11? 


INDEX. 


Hilsa  fish  gravy  curry,  28 

,   sliced,    fried    in    curry 

condiments,  28 
Prawn  doopiaja,  28 

HiNDOOSTANEE  CURRIES,  20 

Seik  kawab,  20 
Tick-keeah  kawab,  21 

HussANEE  Curries,  or  Cxjrkies  ow 
Stick,  21 

Hussanee  beef  curry,  21 

curry  of  udder  and  liver, 

22 

mutton  curry,  22 

veal  curry,  22 

KURMA  OR  QUOREMA  CURRY,  22 

Fowl  quorema,  23 
Kid  quorema,  23 
Quorema  curry,  plain,  22 

Madras  Mulligatawny  Curry,  27 

Malay  Curries,  23 

Chicken  malay  doopiaja,  25 


-  gravy  curry  with 


pulwal,  24 
Chicken  malay  gravy  curry  with 

white    pumpkin    or    cucumber, 

23 
Cocoanut  milk,  23 
Prawn  malay  doopiaja,  25 
gravy    curry    with 

pulwal,  24 
Prawn    malay  gravy  curry  with 

white    pumpkin    or    cucumber, 

24 

Portuguese  Curry  (Vindaloo  or 
Bindaloo),  25 

Beef  vindaloo,  25 
Curry  paste,  26 
Duck  vindaloo,  26 
Trickled  vindaloo,  26 
Pork  vindaloo,  26 

Saug  Curries,  30 

Danta  curry  with  shrimps,  80 
Green  saug  with  prawns,  30 
Khattah  carree,  or  acid  vegetable 

curry,  31 
Red  saug  and  omra,  30 

and  prawns,  30 

— — ,  omra,  and  shrimps,  30 


FISH. 

Crabs  in  shell,  39 
Fish  mooloo,  38 
Fish  smoked,  39 
Prawn  cutlet,  38 

powder,  40 

Prawns,  dried,  40 
Ttuaarind  fish,  39 


GARNISHES,  SAUCES, 

STUFFINGS,  ETC. 

Apple  sauce,  79 

Beef,  boiled,  sauce  for,  78 

,  roast,  sauce  for,  78 

Birds,  cooked,  jelly  for,  81 

Brain  cakes,  75,  76 

Bread  sauce,  79 

Brisket  of  beef,   boiled,   saucG  f^, 

76 
Casserole  of  potatoes,  74 
Croquets  or  rissoles,  74 
Cucumber  salad,  sauce  for,  77 
Duck,  boiled,  stuffing  for,  81 

,  roast,  stuffing  for,  80,  81 

Egg  balls,  75 

sauce,  79 

Fish,  forcemeat  for,  75 

sauce,  pink,  79 

,  excellent,  76 

)  to  make  a  quart  bottle  of 

79 
Forcemeat,  75 

balls,  75 

for  fish,  75 

onions,  75 

Fowls,  stuffing  for,  80 

Fricandellans,  74 

Goose,  boiled,  stuffing  for,  81 

,  roast,  stuffing  for,  81 

Hare,  stuffing  for,  80 

Jelly    for  cooked    birds,  meatg,   or 

made  dishes,  81 
Kid,  roast,  stuffing  for,  80 

,  stuffing  for,  80 

Lobster  salad,  sauce  for,  76 

sauce,  78 

Made  dishes,  jelly  for,  81 
Meats,  cooked,  jelly  for,  81 
Meat,  sauce  for  any  kind  of,  78 
,  to  make  a  quart  bottle 

of,  79 
Melted  butter,  80 

,  French,  80 

Mint  sauce,  79 


TWDBX. 


U9 


Mutton,  boiled,  sauce  for,  76 
Onion,  brown,  saiiee  f o«  gravy,  78 

■  sauce,  77 

,  white,  77 

Oyster  sauce,  78 
Parsley  and  butter,  80 

sauce,  77 

Pink  sauce  for  fish,  79 

Pig,  roast,  FtuflSng  for,  80 

Potatoes,  casserole  of,  74 

Pudding  sauce,  79 

Kissoles  or  croquets,  74 

Salads,  sauce  for,  76 

Sauce  for  any  kind  of  meat,  78 

Shrimp  sauce,  79 

Tapp  sauce  gravy  for  made  dishes, 

77 
Tomato,  fresh,  gravy  sauce  for  made 

dishes,  77 
Turkey,  boiled,  stuffing  for,  SI 

,  roast,  stuffing  for,  81 

Veal,  stuffing  for  fiUets  of,  80 


HOME-MADE  LIQUEURS. 

Aniseed,  cream  of,  97 
Apricot  effervescing  drink,  100 
Barley-water,  lemon,  101 
Champagne,  poor  man's,  101 
Cinnamon,  cream  of,  97 
Citron,  cream  of,  97 
Cloves,  cream  of,  97 
*^'  Commander-in-chief,"  99 
Cura^oa,  98 
Dantzic  brandy,  98 
Flash,  100 
Ginger-beer,  99 
Ginger  pop,  100 
Golden  wasser,  98 
Imperial  pop,  100 
Lemonade,  royal,  101 
Mint-beer,  99 

,  cream  of,  98 

julep,  101 

Negus,  100 

Noyau,  cream  of,  97 

■ — '■ ,  pink,  97 

Orangeade,  101 

Orgeat,  101 

Punch  a  la  Romain,  99 

,  milk,  99,  100 

,  regent,  99 

Rose  cream,  98 
Sherry  cobbler,  100 
Summer  beverage,  101 
Vanilla,  cream  of,  98 


INDIAN  PICKLES,  CHUTNEE3, 
SAUCES,  ETC. 

Bombay  onion  pickle,  85 
Cabbage,  pickled,  84 
Chilies,  essence  of,  87 
Chili  vinegar,  87 
Cussoondee,  84 
Dry  fruit  pickle,  86 
Garlick,  juice  of,  88 
Ginger-juice,  green,  88 
Green  mint  vinegar,  86 
Horseradish  vinegar,  87 
Hot  sweet  mango  chutnee,  83 
Lime-juice,  to  preserve,  87 

,  to  purify,  87 

Long  plum  pickle,  85 
Love-apple  chutnee,  82 

sauce,  82 

Mango  amchoor,  84 
Mangoes  pickled  whole,  85 
Mint-juice,  green,  87 
Mustard,  88 
Onions,  juice  of,  88 
Patna  onion  pickle,  85 
Red  cabbage  pickle,  84 
Red  cauliflower  pickle,  84 
Round  plum  pickle,  86 

• with  mustard  oil 

86 
Sweet  chutnee,  82 

long  plum  pickle,  86 

-        mango  chutnee,  83 

pickle,  85 

Tamarind  chutnee,  83 
Tapp  sauce,  82 
Tomato  chutnee,  82 
sauce,  82 


INDIAN      PRESERVES,      JAIVIS, 

JELLIES,  AND  MARMALADES. 

Apricot  cheese,  95 
Bael,  candied,  95 

jam,  95 

preserve,  94 

Calfs-foot  jelly,  96 

Capillaire,  90 

Ceylon  moss  preserve,  90 

Damson  cheese,  95 

Gooseberry  (tipparee)  preserve,  93 

Green  mango  preserve,  91 

Guava  cheese,  90 

jelly,  90 

Iceland  moss  preserve,  90 
Mango  jelly,  91 


120 


INDEX. 


Mango  marmalade,  91 
Orange  jelly,  95 

marmalade,  96 

Peach  preserve,  92,  93 
Pine-apple  preserve,  92 
Pulwal,  candied,  93 

preserve,  93     ^ 

Seaweed  preserve,  90^ 

Sugar,  adulteration  of,  to  detect,  \ 

,  to  clarify,  89 

Syrup,  brown,  89 

,  white,  89 

Tamarinds,  to  preserve,  94 
Tipparee  cheese,  94 

jelly,  94 

marmalade,  94 

preserve,  93 


JOINTS,  MADE  DISHES,  etc. 

Alderman's  mock  turtle  pie,  45 
y  sauce 

for,  45 
Beef  k  la  mode,  40 

baked  with  potatoes,  49 

■ steak  and  pigeon  pie,  44 

Breast  of  mutton  a  la  Ste.  Menoult, 

50 
Brisket  of  beef  trambland,  48 
Bubble  and  squeak,  48 
Collared  brisket,  41 
Corned  round  of  beef,  40 
Ducks  with  green  olives,  42 
Dumpode  capon  or  fowl,  47 

— duck  (Eastern  way),  47 

goose  (Indian  way),  47 

Fillet  of  veal,  to  stew  a,  48 

Fowl  k  la  cardinal,  47 

French  mutton  chops,  42 

Friar  Tuck's  mock  venison  pastry  pie, 

45 
Friar  Tuck's  mock  venison  pastry  pie, 

sauce  for,  46 
Fricandeau  de  veau,  41 
Haggis,  49 
Hunter's  beef,  41 
Kidney  stew,  42 
Kid  roasted  whole,  43 
Kidney  toasts,  49 
Leg  of  mutton  dumpling,  46 
Macaroni  pie,  44 
Marrow-bones,  to  boil,  49 
Meat  or  birds  in  jelly,  51 
Minced  veal  potato  pie,  44 
Mutton  brains  and  love-apples,  43 
'  baked  with  potatoes,  49 

■  ham,  to  cure,  51 


Mutton  stew,  4S 

trambland,  48 

Olive  royals,  50 
Ox- cheek  dressed,  50 

potted,  50 

,  to  boil,  50 

,  to  stew,  50 

Pigeons  in  savoury  jelly,  51 

with  petit  pois,  4^ 

Potato  pie,  44 
Rolled  mutton,  49 
Sausage  rolls,  46 
Spiced  beef,  41 

collared  brisket,  41 

Veal  cutlets,  48 
pie,  44 


MEDICINAL  AND  OTHER 

RECIPES. 

Aperient  mixture,  tonic,  107 

pills,  digestive,  107 

,  mild,  107 

Barley-water  for  the  sick  chambep- 

102 
Blisters,  spermaceti  ointment  for 

dressing,  106 
Bowel  complaint,  cure  for,  106 
Bruises,  embrocation  for,  105 
Burns,  lime  liniment  for,  106 
Colds,  cure  for,  103 
Coughs,  old,  emulsion  for,  103 

,  recent,  emulsion  for,  103 

,  mixture  for,  103 

Cramp  in  the  legs,  to  cure,  102 
Deafness,  to  cure,  102 
Emetic  draught,  102 
Fomentation,  anodyne,  106 

,  common,  106 

Galling  in  persons  confined  to  bed,  to 

prevent,  106 
Gargle,  excellent  domestic,  105 
Ginger-beer  powders,  109 
Hiccup,  cure  for,  103 
Hooping-cough,  cure  for,  104 

-,  Roche's  embrocation 


for,  104 


101 


-,  valuable  lotion  for. 


Inflammation  in  the  throat,  gargle 

for,  104,  105 
Irritation  in  the  throat,  gargle  for, 

104,  105 
Lemonade  powders,  109 
Lotion,  nitric  acid,  106 
Neuralgia,  cure  for,  103 
Plaster,  warm,  104 


INDEX. 


1SI 


purgative  tincture,  warm,  107 
Quinine  draught,  108 
Ringworm,  cure  for,  108 
Scalds,  lime  liniment  for,  106 
Seidlitz  powders,  108 
Senna,  compound  infusion  of,  107 
Sore  throat,  good  gargle  for,  105 
Sprains,  embrocation  for,  105 

,  remedy  for,  105 

Tapeworm,  cure  for,  108 
Tic-doloreux,  cure  for,  103 
Wasp-sting,  to  cure  a,  102 
Worm  powder,  108 


MISCELLANEOUS  USEFUL 
RECIPES. 

Brushes,  head  and  clothes,  to  wash, 

114 
China,  broken,  to  unite,  113 
Cement  for  attaching  metal  to  glass 

or  porcelain,  113 
Cement,  Japanese,  113 
Earrings,  to  clean,  114 
Feathers,  to  clean,  114 
Glass,  broken,  to  unite,  113 
Gold  chains,  to  clean,  114 
Ironmould,  to  remove,  113 
Kid  gloves,  to  clean,  113 
Lace,  to  wash,  114 
Marble,  to  clean,  115 
Mourning  dresses,  to  remove  stains 

from,  113 
Plate,  to  clean,  114 
Satins,  to  clean,  113 
Silks,  to  clean,  113 
Woollen  dresses,  coloured,  to  clean, 

113 


PASTRY,    PUDDINGS, 
SWEETMEATS,  etc. 

Almond  custard,  58 

Bael  sherbet,  73 

Bibinca  dosee,  or  Portuguese  cocoanut 
pudding,  63 

Blanc  mange,  58,  59 

Bole  comadree,  or  Portuguese  cocoa- 
nut  pudding  with  jagree,  63 

Bombay  pudding,  60 

Buns,  69 

Cajure,  64 

Chappatee  or  hand-bread,  61 

Cheesecakes,  cocoanut,  68 

__ ^ — ^  excellent,  68 


Chocolate  custard,  58  « 

Cocoanut  cheesecakes,  68 

pittas,  63 

pudding,  Portuguese,  63 

,  (Portuguese),  with 

jagree,  63 
Cocoanut  rice  pudding,  60 
Coloured  icings,  72 
Colouring  for  jellies,  creams,  ices,  and 

calies,  71 
Colouring  mixtures,  71 
Corn-flour  blanc  mange,  59 
Cream  as  prepared  by  the  natives, 

73 
Custard,  57 

Creams,  ornament  for,  71 
Custards,  ornament  for,  71 
Custard  pudding,  61 
Dal  pittas,  62 
Dalpooree,  61 
Dhye  or  tyre,  73 
Falooree,  62 
Fowl  doopiaja  loaf,  62 
Friar  Tuck's  mock  venison  pastry  pie, 

pastry  for,  57 
Fritters,  64 

Frost  or  icing  for  cakes,  71,  72 
Gingerbread,  American,  68 

cakes,  rich,  68 

•,  Indian,  68 

nuts,  67 

,  oatmeal,  68 

,  spiced,  67 

Ginger  cakes,  67 
Goolgoola,  or  fritters,  64 
Hand- bread,  61 
HuUuah,  64 
Iced  cream,  apricot,  72 

,  mille  fruit,  72 

,  orange,  73 

,  raspberry,  72 

Icing,  fine,  for  tarts  and  puffs,  72 

for  cakes,  71,  72 

Icings,  coloured,  72 

Juice  of  fruit  iced,  73 

Lemon  (Indian)  pudding,  60 

Macaroni,  61 

*' Maids  of  honour,"  68 

Mallie,  73 

Mango  fool,  70 

,  pink,  70 

Marmalade  pudding,  60 
Mincemeat,  70 
Oatmeal  gingerbread,  68 
Orange  custard,  57 

water  iced,  73 

Ornament  for  custards  or  oreami, 

71 


192 


INDEX. 


Pancakes,  common,  69 

,  French,  69 

,  Indian,  69 

,  pink,  69 

Pies  and  tarts,  pastry  for,  57 
Plaintain  fritters,  63 
Plaintains,  fried,  63 
Plum  cake,  6i 

-  pudding  (Indian  way),  59 
Prawn  doopiaja  loaf,  62 

pittas,  62 

Princess  royal  custard,  58 

Queen  cakes,  Q6 

Rice  blanc  mange,  59 

Rose-bloom  custard,  58 

Rout  cakes,  69 

Scotch  shortbread,  Q6,  67 

Sherbet,  bael,  73 

Shortbread,  6Q 

Shrewsbury  cakes,  6Q 

Soojee,  tart  and  pie  crusts  of,  61 

Swiss  cakes,  65 

Tarts,  pastry  for,  57 

Tyre  or  dhye,  .73 

Vanilla  drops,  70 

Yeast,  73,74 


PELLOW  OR  POOLOO. 

Beef,  mutton,  or  kid  pellow,  13 
Chicken  pellow,  12 
Lobster  or  fish  pellow,  13 
Prawn  pellow,  13 


PERFUMERY,  COSMETICS,  AND 
DENTIFRICE. 

Bandoline  for  the  hair.  111 

Bears'  grease,  imitative,  109 

Dentifrice,  111 

Eau-de-Coiogne,  112 

Hair  grease,  llO 

Lavender-water,  112 

Lemon-peel,  essence  of,  112 

Lip-salve,  rose,  112 

Perfumed  oils,  Indian  mode  of  pre- 
paring, 109 

Pomade  divine,  110,  111 

for  hair  that  is  falling  off, 

110 

Pomatum,  110 

Roses,  essence  of,  112 

Bcurf  in  the  head,  remedy  for,  109 


RICE  OR  CHOWL. 

Boiled  rice,  10 
Rice  conjee,  10 

kheer,  10 

Pish  pash,  11 

KiTCHEEREES,  11 

Bhoonee  kitcheeree,  11 

- — — of  green  peas, 

12 


chunna  dal,  12 


-  of  the  gram  or 

-  of  the  moong 
or  small-grain  yellow  dal,  11 

-  of  the  mussoor 


or  red  dal,  11 
Geela  kitcheeree,  12 
Jurrud  or  yellow-tinted  kitcheeree, 

12 


SOUPS. 

Bridal  soup,  or  soup  elegant,  37 
Bright  onion  soup,  36 
Curry  soup,  36 
Macaroni  soup,  35 
Mulligatawny  soup,  35,  35 
Shin  of  beef  soup,  35 

with  forcemeat  and 

egg  balls,  35 
Soup  elegant,  37 

royal,  37 

Vermicelli  soup,  35 


THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING. 

Bed  linen,  to  protect  from  burning, 

116 
Bread,  stale,  to  make  fresh,  115 
Coffee,  how  to  select  and  keep,  115 
Cream,  substitute  for,  in  tea  or  coffee, 

115 
Curtains,  to  protect,  from  burning, 

116 
Lamp,  to  prevent  the  smoking  of  a, 

116 
Leaves,  to  take  impressions  of,  116 
Salad,  lettuce,  115 
Transparent  paper,  116 


VEGETABLES. 

Artichokes,  to  boil,  54 
Asparagus  k  la  Fran^ais,  54 
,  to  boil,  53 


r>  DEX. 


123 


Beans  (French),  to  boil,  63 
Brocoli,  to  boil,  64 
cabbages  (young  green),  to  boil,  54 
Carrots,  Flemish  way,  55 

,  to  boil,  55 

Cauliflowers,  to  bnil,  53 
yucumbers,  to  stew.  54 
xreen  peas  stewed,  55 

,  to  boil,  55 

/[ushrooms,  to  stew,  54,  55 
)nions,  plain  boiled,  65 

,  to  roast,  65 

^eas,  to  steam,  56 


Peas  for  a  second-ccurse  dish,  k  la 

Fran^ais,  56 
Peas    (young)  and  lettuce,  to  stew, 

5d 
Potatoes   (boiled),  to  broil,  52 

,  to  boil,  5'J 

■ under  meat  while  roastiog, 

to  brown,  52 
Potato  ribbons,  52 
Spinach,  to  boil,  53 
Turnips,  to  boil,  52 

(young),  to  ires  ,  58 

Vegetable  mash,  56 


2.,. 


^ 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


OCT  3  1  19o::' 


