This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 


at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/ 


\^c-   7V??.  t    -/. 


RADCUFFE  COLLEGE  UBRARYI 


SSf 


WOMEN'S  ARCHIVES 

Transferred  from 

HARVARD  COLLEGE  UBRARY 

1960 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


^pp 


Tjike  of  alum  2Iba.;  talt,  lib.  j  hot  wi|^er  suffieient  ^ 
^  to  distoue  4heni.  When  coo!  enough  to  bear  tlie 
hand  in  without  tealdiog,  immerse  the  skin.  After 
lort5>ei||iit  honra  withdraw  it,  and  nail  it  akin  outward* 
SfE»i«i^  a  wall  in  the  shad^.  While  wet  take  equal 
pnrtt  of  alum  ana  chalk,  finely  powdered  ;  wbidi  mix 
XA  water,  il^Cil  it  it  a  thick  paste ;   spread  it  over  the 

VBofe  on,  tifl  the  grease  is  completely  withdrawn  ;  then, 

^ii**^?^  ^  '^^^  **^®  '''*"'  *'"*'  *'  '^^'^^  pumice-stone 
eifl  thin  cnoujfh,  when  work  it  ab<mt  gently  with  the 
liandtf^  and  it  will  become  as  soft  as  wash-le§^H>w 


'  I'. 


f 


^■^ 


/, 


n 


f  i* 


y. 


/ 1' 


INDIAN 

DOMESTIC      ECONOMY 


AND 


RECEIPT  BOOK. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ft 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN 

DOMESTIC    ECONOMJ 


AND 


RECEIPT  BOOK; 

COMPBISING 

NUMEBOUS  DIKECTI0N8  POB  PLAIN  WHOLESOME  GOOKEfiT,     , 
BOTH  OBIENTAL  AND  ENGLISH;  WITH  MUCH  MISCELLANEOUS  MATTER, 
ANSWEBING  FOB  ALL  GENiy^  PUBPOSES  OF  BEFEBENCE, 

CONNXCrXD 

WITH  H0U8EH0LD  AFFAIRS,  LIKELY  TO  BE  IMMEDUTBLT 

BEQUIBED  BT  FAMILIES,  MESSES,  AND  PBIYATE  INDIVIDUALS^ 

BESIDING  AT  THE  PBESIDENCIES  OB  OUT-STATION&, 


BY  THE  AUTHOB  OF 

'MANUAL  OF  GARDENING  POR  WESTERN  INDIA.*' 


hi  A,  luit^i 


FIFTB  SBSTXON— BJBVX8SB. 


MADSAS: 
panmiD  at  thb  pkbss  of  thb  socibtt  fos  rsoMoriNG 

CHUISTU2?  KNOVLSDOE,  TBFERY. 
1860. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


HARVARD  COLLEGE  LIBRARY 

BCQULST  or 

MRS.  CNESTEK  ».  QOCf  N0U6N 

RCPTEHBER  20,  1925 


J  31 


Digitized  by 


Google 


PREFACE  TO  THE  FUTH  EDITION. 


To  this  edition  the  Author  has  appended  the  new  Act 
for  tlie  management  of  the  Post  Office  and  the  Begulations 
of  the  duties  of  Postages.  He  has  seen  no  occasion  to  make 
foitber  additions;  nevertheless  he  feels  assured  the  work  mil 
continue  to  sustain  its  expectation  as  one  of  general  utility 
throughout  India. 

The  flattering  notice  taken  of  the  work  by  the  Press  of 
the  three  Presidencies^  and  its  acknowledged  usefulness  as  a 
book  of  reference  by  numerous  private  individuals  unknown 
to  the  Author^  is  highly  gratifying;  while  the  facts  proye^ 
ivhafc  has  always  been  his  opinion,  that  a  work  having 
for  its  object  simple  yet  distinct  instruction— by  the  assimi- 
lation of  the  Asiatic  Customs  with  the  European — in 
Domssno  'Ecovouy,  must  prove  eminently  useful  and  ao« 
ceptable  to  the  Anglo-Indian  Community.  The  Keceipts  are 
rendered  in  as  plain  a  manner  as  possible,  so  that  no  diffi- 
culty may  arise  in  their  communication  co  Natives;  the 
selections  are  such  as  are  most  easily  attainable;  and  the 
means  for  their  preparation  generally  procurable ;  whilst  the 
additions  are  largely  imported  into  this  country,  and  are  to 
be  had  at   almost  every  Bazaar. 

Thb  Mabket  Tables  attached  will  form  a  very  fair  guide 
to  the  actual  prices  of  provisions,  &c.  at  either  of  the  Pre- 
adencies  or  in  the  Mofussil,  and  prevent  any  immoderate 
overcharge  by  servants;  for  let  the  European's  experience  be 
what  it  may,  and  even  were  he  to  visit  the  Market  himself^ 
he  never  could  purchase  any  article  at  the  same  rate  as  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


VI  PREPACB. 

Native>  nor  can  he  fail  to  discover  in  any  intercourse  with 
him  involving  outisLj,  that  he  is  obliged  to  submit  to  a  per 
centage  in  some  degree,  or  what  is  called  Dostoory,^  «n 
allowance  established  by  general  usage  and  considered  by  the 
servant  as  his  perquisite  for  making  purchases.  When  small, 
however,  it  may  be  as  well  to  let  him  enjoy  the  advantage, 
if  quiet  and  comfort  are  desired.  This  deduction  is  not  so 
applicable  to  the  household  expenditure ;  especially  when  the 
head  servant's  account  is  settled  every  morning,  as  then  the 
prices  charged  are  generally  made  at  the  admitted  or  known 
rates,  and  can  be  checked  accordingly  if  examined  at  the 
time;  but  when  allowed  to  stand  over,  articles  are. frequently 
entered  and  charged  for,  although  neither  procured  nor  con- 
sumed, and  of  course  there  is  clear  gain  to  the  servant, 
who  besides,  takes  his  usual  DasTooBT  when  settling  with 
the  tradesmen  for  bond  fide  purchases. 

Families  and  single  individuals  residing  at  the  Presiden* 
ties  or  the  Mofussil,  who  may  at  times  be  particularly  cast 
on  their  own  resources,  or  deem  it  necessary  to  superintend 
their  daily  expenditurey  and  are  not  above  an  acquaintance 
with  the  number  of  annas  and  pice  forming  a  rupee, — items 
as  indispensable  to  present  as  conducive  to  future  comfort, 
*-will,  in  all  mattas  of  household  affairs,  whether  in  check- 
ing the  extravagant  charges  of  domestics,  the  over-demands 
of  trades-people  in  purchases,  or  affording  useful  instruction 
for  the  routine  of  the  Culinary  department,  as  well  as  the 
management  of  the  Farm,  Poultry  Yard,  or,  Kitchbn 
Garden,,  it  is  hoped»  find  that  much  useful  informatTon  may 
be  derived  by  following  the  rules  and  instructions  contained 
in  the  '^  Indian  Dokbshc  Economy/' 


*  Two  pie  in  eadi  mpM. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANALYTICAL  INDEX. 


Chapter  1st.  Servants; — ^their  description,  habits,  caste,  wages,  &C'^ 
at  Bombay,  Bengal,  Hyderabad,  and  Madras. 

—  2nd.  Farm  and  Poultry  Tard; — Cows,  Calves,  Buffaloes, 

Goats,  Sheep,  Pigs,  Babbits ;  management  of  Poul- 
try with  preliminary  remarks;  Turkeys,  Guinea- 
fowls,  Geese,  Ducks,  Pigeons  and  Pba-fowL 
'*-  3bd.  Horse  and  Stable ; — ^Exercise,  grooming,  feeding,  and 
medical  treatment  in  the  most  immediate  and  easiest 
form,   with  recipes,   &o. 

—  4th.  Daily; — General    remarks  on  Utensils,    Pans,   &c.; 

MOk,  Creun  and  Butter;  mode  of  making  butler 
from  Cream  and  Milk  •  also  Iresh  Cream  and  Curd 
Cheeses. 

—  5tb.  Soups  of  various  kmds,  with  general  directions  for 

flavouring,  foroe*meat  balk,  te« 

—  6tb.  Fish,  and  Shell-fish,  with  Bemarks  upon  dressing,  Stc. 

—  7th.  Bemarks  on  Boiling,  Boasting,  Broiling,  &c. 

—  8th.  Sauces  and  Gravies. 

—  9th.  Beef;  Yeal,  Mutton,  Liamb  and  Pork. 

—  IOth.  General  directions  for  Grame  and  Poultry,  with  various 

methods  of  dressing  the  same. 

—  11th.  Vegetables; — ^how  to  prepare  and  dress  in  different 

ways. 
12th.  Devils,  Zests,  Sandwiches,  Omdettes,  Essences,  Toast- 

ed  Cheese,  Bamakins,  &c« 
13th.  Pickles  and  Chutneys. 

—  14th.  Pastry,  Tarts,  &c. 

—  15th.  Puddings. 

—  16th.  Cakes. 

—  17th.  Baking ;— Bread,  Biscuits,  &c. 

—  18th.  Sweet  Dishes,  &c. 

—  19th,  Jellies  and  Jams* 


- 


1 


Digitized  by 


Google 


VIU  ANALYTICAL   INDEX. 

Chapter  20th.  Tea,  Coffee,  &c. 

—  2  1st.   Syrups,  Drops,  &c. 

—  22nd.  Drinks,  Liquors,  &c» 

—  23bd.  Cordials. 

—  24th.  Cooling  fluids ;  Purifying  water. 

—  25th.  Freezing  Mixtures,  with  or  without  loe. 

—  26th.  Making  Ice ; — receipts  for  the  same,  with  directions 

for  preserving  it. 

—  27th«  Vocabulary  of  Culinary  terms. 

—  28th.  Oriental  Cookery ; — prelimmary  remarks  on  Curries, 

Brianes,  Pullows,  Ashes,  Kubabs,  Cakes  and  Chut- 
neys ;  with  various  receipts  for  making  the  saoie. 

—  29th.  Bombay  Market  Table,  with  the  average  Prices  Cur- 

rent for  three  Months  in  the  year ;  January,  May 
and  November  j  Tables  of  Money,  Weights  and 
Measures ;  with  the  Commercial  Weights  in  various 
parts  of  India,  &c. 

—  30th.  Calcutta,  Dinapore,  Madras  and  Aurungabad  Market 

Tables,  and  prices  of  Miscellaneous  Articles,  &c. 

—  SlsT.  Tables  of  Exchange,  Interest,  &c. 

—  S2nd.  Miscellaneous  Domestic  Heceipts. 

—  S3BD,  Kitchen  Garden  and  Orchard^with  a  copious  Index 

of  the  whole. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTER  I, 


SERVANTS. 

The  misdeeds  of  Indian  servants  appear  to  be  a  general 
aod  unfailing  source  of  complaint  amongst  all,  whether  we 
take  the  new-comer  on  his  arrival,  or  the  long  resident, 
without  reference  to  any  particular  place;  the  complaint 
of  them  is  universal — ^laziness,  dishonesty,  falsehood,  with 
a  host  of  other  vices,  seem  to  be  inherent  in  them.  This 
need  hardly  be  wondered  at,  when  we  consider  the  way  in 
which  they  are  brought  up,  taught  from  their  earliest  in- 
fancy to  look  for  employment  only  in  the  particular  calling 
of  their  parent,  or  the  guardian  by  whom  they  have  been 
adopted.  Nor  is  the  fault  wholly  on  their  side — much  that 
is  complained  of,  originates  with  the  master,  and  is  owing 
to  him*  In  the  first  place,  taking  a  servant  merely  on  the 
recommendation  of  a  written  character,  without  any  en- 
deavour to  ascertain  whether  the  bearer  is  the  person  de- 
scribed, or  how  he  became  possessed  of  it.  In  most  cases 
these  characters  are  borrowed;  in  many  they  are  written 
for  the  occasion,  by  a  class  of  persons  who  earn  their  bread 
by  writing  characters  for  any  applicant  who  will  give  them 
a  few  annas,  or  agree  to  pay  a  per  centage  should  he  suc- 
ceed in  getting  the  place.  So  sudden  and  frequent  are 
the  changes  in  India,  that  a  master  or  mistress  has  seldom 
an  opportunity  of  making  any  personal  inquiry,  and  is 
often  led  to  overlook  this  precaution;  all  this  causes  a 
fruitful  source  of  mischief  to  domestic  economy. 

Then  again,  persons  are  not  sufficiently  careful  in  giving 
characters ;  how  often  it  happens  that  a  master  or  mistress, 
when   turning   away  a  servant,  gives  him,   from  false  kind- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Z  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

ness^  a  better  character  than  he  deserves^  suppressing  the 
real  cause  ol  his  being  sent  away^  and  at  the  same  time 
mentioning  a  period  of  service  sufficiently  long  to  be  of 
itself  a  Tecoinmendation,  and  almost  a  guarantee  of  his 
trustworthiness  and  usefulness,  whereas  they  know  the  con- 
trary to  be  the  ease. 

Some  servanis  there  are  who  enter  your  family  simply 
to  see  what  they  can  lay  their  hands  upon,  taking  them- 
selves off  the  first   convenient  opportunity. 

Others  there  are  who  take  advantage  of  the  advance  of 
pay,  usually  given  in  setting  out  on  a  journey,  to  enable 
the  servant  to  leave  a  small  sum  with  his  family  or 
relations  and  to  provide  himself  with  necessaries;  thus 
getting  a  month's  or  more  advance  of  pay,  and,  in  nine 
cases  out  of  ten,  when  the  traveller  starts,  are  nowhere 
to  be  found,  or  slip   away  after  the  first   day  or  two. 

The  best  way  to  prevent  this,  is  to  make  your  head 
servant  (if  out  of  your  own  power)  go  to  the  Police  Office, 
and  have  their  names  and  agreement  registered;  it  will 
afford  an  opportunity  for  detection,  should  they  be  old 
offenders,  as  the  Police  have  better  means  of  making  in- 
quiries than  you  can  possibly  have.  This  clearly  shows 
what  an  advantage  an  office  for  registry  would  be,  where 
the  honest  and  well-disposed  servant  could  be  heard  of, 
when  he  would  be  sure  to  find  a  place. 

On  the  other  hand,  servants  have  too  often  just  cause 
for  leaving  their  places  suddenly,  the  slightest  fault  of  a 
native  servant  being  often  visited  with  blows  and  such 
abuse  as  no  respectable  man  will  bear,  very  often  too  for 
no  other  fault  than  that  of  not  understanding  what  the 
master  has  said,  who  has  given  his  directions  in  some 
unintelligible  stuff,  from  ignorance  of  the  language,  that 
no  one  could  understand. 

The  races  of  servants  are  very  different  at  the  three  Pre- 
sidencies ;  at  Bombay  there  is  a  large  proportion  of  native 
Portuguese,  Parsees,  Mussulmen,  and  Hindoos,  besides 
Eurasians;   at    Madras  native    Christians  take   the  place  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKSET. 


Psrsees  at  Bombay,  lind  at  Calcutta  there  is  a  mixture  of 
efoy  caste  and  grade  in  India.  There  are  some  amongst 
&eae  who  speak  English^  and  who  generally  bear  but  very 
indiflferent  characters*  ' 


BOMBAY. 
A  Batler,  whether  Portugaese,  Parsee  or  Mossul- 


man,     B«. 

10  to  15-20-30 

A  Table  Servant  (seldom  more),     

6  „ 

10 

Cook,       

7  „ 

20 

Aaristaat,      

4  „ 

6 

Tf tshennan  or  Dhobee,  according  to  the  family, 

7  „ 

36  or  more. 

Mor,            

7  „ 

15 

Ayifc.     

8  ,• 

15 

Amah  or  Wet  Nttrae,          

7  „ 

16 

Coachman,          

10  „ 

16 

Gorahwalkh,            

5  „ 

9 

Maasolchee,  where  no  house  Hammals  are  em- 

l^J^      

6 

fiheestee,  if  used,  but  the  Htunmals  do  this  work, 

8 

Totee  or  Sweeper,      

2  „ 

6 

Gkapiaaee  or  Pnttah  WaUah»       

5  „ 

7 

BENGAL. 

A  Sircar  or  Acoonntant,          

...Bs.  10  to  13 

A  Butler  or  Khansmnar,    .. 

8  ..   10 

A  Table  Servant  or  Khidmutgar,       

... 

6  „     8 

Assistant    do.     orMatie,           

.. 

4  „     6 

Bresaang  Bearer  or  Bhoee,      

... 

6„     8 

Hooae  and  PiOkee     do.              

., 

5  .,     7 

Washerman  or  Phobee, 

... 

4  „  14 

Water  Carrier,  Bheestee  or  Puckalec,    ...      '  ... 

,, 

6  „     8 

Cook  or  Bawurchee, 

... 

8  „  18 

Sweeper,  Halalknr  or  Mihtor,      

.. 

8  „     4 

Messenger  or  Hnrkara,           

6  „     6 

Porter  or  Dorwany              

.. 

6  „     6 

Tailor  or  Bnrsee,         

•»• 

5  „     8 

Goaofaman  or  Ghareewan,            

8  „  15 

Horaekeeper  or  Syce,             

... 

5  „     6 

Graascutter  or  Ghaswara,             

3  „     5 

Elephant  Driver  or  Mahut,     

... 

8  „  16 

Assistant  Cooly,               

3  „     5 

Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN  DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 


Gamelman,  Oontwallah, 

Gardener,  Malee  or  Baghban, 

Shepherd,  B'herehara, 

Water  Cooler  or  Abdar, 

Tent  Pitcher,  or  Lascar, 

Hooka  attendant,  or  Hookabadar, 


Rs 


Female  ServanU. 


Ayah,  or  Waiting^woman, 
Amah,  or  Wet  Nurse, 
Ladies'  Tailor,  1st  Class, 

Do.  2nd  do. 

Washerman,     1st    do.     . 

Bo.  2nd  do. 

Sweeper,  or  Mihturanee, 


Butler,  per  mensem,  from 
Ordinary  Servants, 

Boys,  

Cooks, 
Under  do. 
Waterwoman, 
Coachman, 
Horsekeeper, 
Grasscutters,    ... 
Gardeners, 
Cowman, 
^Water  Carriers, 
Ayahs, 

Under  do.    .. 
Ponkah  Pullers, 


Miufulmans. 


MADRAS. 


HYDERABAD. 


Xhansumar,  or  Butler,  12  to  20 

1  Jemadar  of  Servants,  12  „  15 
Ehidmutgar,  or  Table 

Servant,        -        -       7  „  10 

2  Dressing  Boy,  -  -  7  „  10 
Abdar  or  Water  Cooler,  8  „  12 
Hookabadar,  -       -       12 


Hindoos. 


.    5to 

3 

s  „ 

6 

3  „ 

4 

5   „ 

8 

3   ,. 

5 

6  „ 

8 

5to 

13 

«  .. 

12 

10 

6 

10 

6 

3  „ 

i 

10  to 

21 

7  .. 

10 

6  „ 

7 

7  „ 

17 

3 

3  „ 

4 

10  „ 

15 

5   „ 

7 

3i   ., 

4 

4  „ 

7 

5   „ 

7 

4  „ 

6 

10  „ 

17 

6  „ 

8 

5 

5  Matie,     -       -       •  6  to    7 

6  Mussalehee,  or  Barber,  4  „     7 
Dhobee,         -       -  6  „     8 
Syce,          -  •  .    7 
Grasscutter,    -       -  4  „     6 
Bearer,      -  .  -    7 
Head  Bearer,         -  8 


Digitized  by 


Google 


.ND   COOKBIIY. 

0 

Hindoot. 

to  6 
„     7 

Male,         -       - 
Cooly  Woman, 
7  Cook, 
Tailor,  -  -     -       - 

-   6  to     8 

2   „      3 

-10    „    20 

7    „    12 

„  7 
..     8 

Ayah,       •       - 

-     7    „     16 

MtunUmam. 

%  Fisrraah,  or  Lascar,  7 

Mihtiir,  or  Sweeper,  3 

i  Chuprassee,  or  Jewan,  5 
Mahut^  or  Elephant 

Driver,       -      -  12 

Aasistaiit  to    do.    -  6 

fflieestee,  or  Packalee,  7 


In  engaging  with  an  Ayah  who  speaks  English^  as  is 
iDo^y  the  case  with  the  Indo-Portuguese^  it  is  necessary 
to  be  very  particular  in  your  agreements  as  to  the  amount 
of  yoor  wages^  and  also  whether  they  expect  food  to  be 
fband  them,  as  their  demand  at  first  will  be  made  gener- 
aDy  without  reference  to  the  latter,  and  at  as  high  a  rate 
ts  they  can  venture  to  ask,  in  consequence  of  their  attain- 
ments being  beyond   those  of  most   Mussulmen  and  Hindoo 

Ayilss,  who  can  only  assist  in  dressing  a  lady;  whereas 
most  of  the  first  clase  Indo-Portuguese  dress  hair,  wash 
laoes,  silk  stockings,  .&c.,  and  in  some  few  instances  can  use 
tbeat  needles,  for  all  of  which  they  expect  to  be  better  paid 
of  course.  The  wages  of  an  Ayah  will  greatly  depend  upon 
the  daties  she  undertakes,  and  those  who  perform  the 
moiial  offices,  which  some  do,  are  on  the  lowest  scale  of 
pay. 

The  Wet  Nurses  are  only  procurable  generally  from  the 
lower  classes,  and  are  very  obstinate  as  to  their  rules  of 
diet  The  greatest  trouble  arises  in  getting  them  to  re- 
strict themselves  to  proper  food;  they  are  prone  to  indulge 
in  liquor,  opium, '  tobacco,  pawn,  suparee,  &c. ;  they  are 
perfectly  careless  of  any  regularity  as  to  their  state  of 
healthy  and  require  great  watching.  Previous  to  engaging 
ihey  make  the  most  exorbitant  demands,  which  from  ne- 
cessity you  are  often  compelled  to  comply  with.  Besides 
Iheir  wages,  it  is  usual  to  find  them  in  food  and  clothes. 

All  classes  of  servants  are  engaged  by  the  month,  though 
not  always  paid  at  the  expiration  of  it,  and  it  is  usual  to 
keep  them  in   arrears  until  the  middle  of  the   following,  as 


Digitized  by 


Google 


6  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

some  check  upon  their  behaviour^  and  to  prevent  their 
withdrawing  themselves  without  notice,  as  they  subject  them- 
selves to  the  loss  of  one  month's  pay,  if  they  quit  of  their 
own  free  will,  or  without   giving  a  proper  warning. 

In  some  houses,  besides  the  Khansumar  or  Butler,  whose 
province  appears  to  be  merely  superintending  the  concerns 
of  the  table  and  of  the  servants  attached  to  it,  a  sort  of 
Jemadar  of  servants  is  also  kept  up,  who  takes  charge  of 
the  purse  and  of  all  the  out*of-door  servants,  pays  all  the 
expenses,— in  fact,  superintends  the  household  concerns  in 
general.  He  is  usually  a  Mussulman,  but  sometimes  of  the 
other  class,  answering  in  some  degree  to  the  Sircar  in  Cal- 
cutta. Very  frequently,  instead  of  a  regular  servant  for  the 
toilet,  a  Hindoo  of  the  Bearer  class  is  employed,  and  it 
seems  the  better  plan;  for,  being  a  dressing  servant,  he  is 
in  general  too  great  a  man  to  assist  in  carrying  the  palan- 
keen: he  yet  keeps  up  with  it,  and  is  always  therefore  at 
hand.  If  the  bearer  be  a  Mussulman  he  is  made  some- 
times to  wait  also  at  table. 

A  Furrash,  I  suspect,  is  kept  up  but  in  few  houses:  his 
occupation  is  that  of  a  Lascar  or  Khalassie;  he  sweeps  the 
carpets,  cleans  the  house  and  furniture,  the  care  of  which 
he  has ;  also  the  beds,  shades  and  lights,  it  being  his  duty 
to  light  the  latter;  in  fact,  his  duty  is  both  that  of  thf 
Lascar  and  Mussalchee,  has  he  is  in  some  houses^  where  a 
IHirrash  is  not  kept  up  in  Bengal.  His  principal  duty  is 
the  charge  of  tents,  with  the  care  of  the  same,  *  pitching, 
striking  and  loading  them. 

A  Ghuprassee  may  be  either  Mussulman  or  Hindoo,  as 
frequently  one  as  the  other.  The  distinction  between  the 
Ghuprassee  and  Jewan,  is  that  the  latter,  besides  being  a 
messenger  and  attending  bis  master  in  Ids  journeys  about, 
is  employed  also  in  guarding  his  house;  the  Chuprassee's 
badge  is  his  external  sign,  the  Jewan  has   it  not. 

Matie  is  sometimes  a  Mussulman,  but  less  frequently; 
and  is  assistant  to  the  table  servant. 

The   Mussalchee    in    general   has    charge  of  the  candles, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  7 

ahmdes  and  lights;  but  where  a  Furrash  is  kept  up^  he  is 
employed  as  torch-bearer  and  barber^  his  profession  gen- 
erally  being  that  of  the  latter. 

The  C!ook  is  usually  a  Native  Christian  of  the  lowest 
casle  ef  Hindoos  from  Madras  or  the  Coast;  sometimes 
they  are  Mussulmen^  but  seldom  in  any  proportion  to  the 
former*  The  bearers  are  a  hard-working  and  very  trusty 
class  of  people;  you  may  leave  articles  of  any  value  with 
them  with  perfect  safety^  only  making  it  over  to  their 
charge,  whether  Hindoos  or  Mussulmen;  indeed,  this  may 
be  said  to  be  the  case  with  most  classes  of  native  servants 
who  are  well  treated ;  and  if  a  fair  estimate  and  allowance 
is  made,  it  will  generally  be  found  that  there  is  more  rea- 
son to  praise  than  complain  of  them.  Entrust  money, 
jewels,  clothes,  &c.,  in  fact,  any  thing  to  their  charge,  and 
yoa  will  find  them  usually  faithful.  They  will  for  years 
treasure  up  the  smallest  rags  for  you,  though  now  and 
then  you  will  see  them  appropriating  articles,  they  have 
thought  forgotten  by  their  masters  (from  their  never  having 
been  asked  for),  and  if  they  can  profit  in  any  way  from 
their  intermedium  in  purchasing  for  you,  you  will  find  they 
will  generally  cheat  you  in  over  demands  in  some  slight 
way  or  other.  Should  you  become  poor  they  will  drop 
ewfsm  this  in  a  very  great  degree,  or  totally.  In  sickness 
they  will  take  the  greatest  care  of  you,  doing  for  you  ser- 
vices that  a  European  seldom  ever  will.  In  marching,  at 
all  seasons  and  all  weather,  they  will  go  long  distances 
without  grumbling,  cook  for  you,  put  their  hands  to  pitch- 
ing tents,  loading,  and  at  all  times  do  work  extra  to  their 
own  duty.  They  are  in  general  sensitive  of  and  grateful 
for  kindness,   and  become  active  and  zealous  therefrom. 

Their  principal  vice,  besides  what  I  have  already  given, 
is  an  intolerable  habit  of  lying.  In  the  way  of  tea,  sugar, 
bread,  milk,  paper  and  such  like  articles,  they  will  fre- 
quently, like  European  servants,  appropriate  a  little  for 
themselves.  You  will  sometimes  find  oases  of  ingratitude, 
but  if  yott  treat  them  kindly,   you  will  not  find   these  fre- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


O  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

quent.  They  will  conceal  in  general  the  petty  thefts  and 
cheatings  of  one  another  from  their  master,  but  when  any 
one  has  been  detected  by  him,  all  are  ready  to  come  for- 
ward and  tell  against  the  offender.  Canning  and  doable- 
dealing  characterize  the  Native^  and  are  some  of  his  'prin- 
cipal faults.  Curiosity,  also,  is  another  of  his  peculiarities; 
if  you  send  a  man  with  a  note  or  message,  he  is  sure  to 
be  asked  by  all  he  meets  where  he  is  going,  and  on  what 
business,  if  he  knows.  They  also  endeavour  to  find  oat 
all  that  concerns  you;  whether  you  are  an  influential  per- 
son or  in  any  way  a  leading  character,  and  are  guided 
accordingly.  I  think  that  you  have  only  to  treat  natives 
well  and  kindly,  and  they  will  generally  prove  good  servants 
to  you.  Sympathize  in  their  griefs  and  joys,  with  the 
smallest  words  of  kindness,  speak  kindly  to  them,  and 
oblige  them  when  you  can,  and  they  will  serve  you  well, 
and  will  refuse  to  execute  no  sort  of  work  how  extraneous 
soever  from  their  regular  duties ;  on  the  contrary,  if  a 
master  or  mistress  is  always  finding  fault  with  their  ser- 
vants for  the  most  trifling  omission  of  duty,  having  them 
beaten  and  cutting  from  .their  pay  the  value  of  an  ar- 
ticle broken  by  accident,  the  Native  naturally  becomes 
discontented  and  careless  to  please,'  knowing  he  can  but  be 
sent  away  with  a  chance  of  getting  a  much  more  humane 
and  even-tempered  employer.  They  are  often  turned  off 
without  being  paid  their  wages,  upon  the  alleged  score  of 
insolence;  this  being  assigned  as  the  reason  when  a  master 
loses  his  temper,  and  ill-treats  a  servant  without  cause,  for 
appearing  stupid  or  awkward.  It  is  necessary,  if  you  desire 
to  retain  and  attach  your  servants  to  you,  to  act  justly  by 
them,  make  them  fully  understand  what  you  desire  to  be 
done,  and  see  that  it  is  so;  and  if  a  servant  has  commit- 
ted a  fault,  or  destroyed  your  property  in  a  wanton  man- 
ner, do  not,  if  you  can  help  it,  punish  him  yourself,  but 
refer  the  case,  where  you  have  the  means,  to  the  decision 
of  public  authority,  or  give  him  his  discharge  at  once. 
Encourage  a  servant   to   come  and  confess  his  fault,   show- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


A^D     COOKEAY.  9 

ing  perhaps  tUat  be  has  broken,  an  article;  then  refrain 
from  blows,,  abuse,  and  cutting  his  pay,  which  seldom  at 
any  time  is  very  high,  owing  to  the  small  sum  required  for 
a  native  to  live  upon,  and  if  reduced  by  stoppages,  falls 
heavily  upon  him,  and  arouses  his  natural  cunning  to  make 
it  up  most  assuredly  at  your  expense,  and  in  future  induces 
him  to  bide  by  every  m«ans  in  his  power  any  fault  be 
may  afterwards  commit. 

In  having  mentioned  the  particular  duties  of    each    ser* 
vant,  I  do   not  wish  to   be  understood  that  he  will  confine 
them  only     to   one     particular     department,     as   was   almost 
generally   the  case   formerly     in   the   upper    parts   in  India, 
though  not   so    much   at   the     Presidencies   of   Madras   and 
Bombay;   for   where  circumstances     require   that  a  few  ser- 
vants are   only   kept   in    the     establishment,     the    duties   of 
two  or  three     may    be  carried  on     by  one,    with  a  little 
management,  as  is   indeed     generally     practised.    The  Cook 
may   attend  the  market   early   of  a  morning  and    purchase 
the   supplies  for  the  day ;   but  here  it  is  essentially   necessary, 
to   prevent     disappointment   as%well  as  to  insure    comfort, 
that  the   necessary  orders   for  all  that  is   required   be   given 
over  night,  as   after  seven  or   eight  o'clpck,  nothing  .but  the 
refuse  of  meat,  &c.,  is  procurable :  this  duty,   though  coming 
more    immediately    under    the  province  of   the  head  servant^ 
may,  where    economy  is    the    object,    be,  as  has  been  stated, 
intrusted  to  the  Cook   or   a  Xhansumar. 

The  head  servant  may  aet  as  Butler,  attend  the  table, 
look  after  the  plate,  and  as  is  often  the  case,  superintend 
the  making  of,  if  not  make  himself,  the  pastry  and  sweet- 
meats, besides  exercising  superintendence  over  the  whole 
household,  and  recording  the  daily  expenditure  in  an  ac- 
count-book kept  for  the  purpose.  A  little  difficulty  some- 
times  exists  in  getting  servants  to  perform  more  than  their 
own  particular  duty,  but  by  a  little  management  it  is  soon 
overcome   and  adds  to   the   domestic   comfort. 

It  is  a  useless,  besides  expensive  custom,  giving  dresses 
to   your   servants;   however,  this  is  a  mere  matter  of  consi- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


10  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY   AND   COOKERY. 

deration  with  yourself.  In  some  families  in  Bengal,  where 
the  establishment  is  large  and  the  servants  numerous,  and 
expected  to  be  all  dressed  uniform  with  turban,  &c.,  a  man 
is  kept  on  purpose  to  make  the  latter  up,  and  is  paid  a 
small  sum  by  each  for  so  doing  or  by  their  emj^oyer,  he 
performing  some  other  duty  when  not  so  engaged.  The 
only  class  requiring  a  livery  generally,  are  your  horse- 
keepeVs  and  coachmen;  they  need  little  more  than  an  uni-* 
form  turban  and  belt,  but  insist  en  their  appearing  in  clean 
clothes  when  in  attendance* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTER    II. 


'^AAA^^'^^i^V^'^Atf^* 


•VTNIR  EC«]!I«IT. 


*^^W^AA^V\^«^S^^^*WWM 


THE  FARM  AND  POULTEY  YARD. 

The  best  Cows  in  Western  India  are  the  Quze- 
Cteiw.  ratti,  and  in  the  South,  the  Mysore  and  Nellore, 
and  in  the  Upper  parts,  the  Nagore;  the  general 
time  of  calving  being  at  the  commencement  of,  and  daring 
the  monsoon.  The  Guzerat  cows,  when  in  full  milk,  after  calv- 
>»gi  give  from  five  to  six  seers  daily,  for  the  first  three  or  four 
months,  if  fed  with  gram  and  green  grass;*— the  Nellore 
€ow  about  half  the  quantity,  and  the  common  country  cow 
seldom  more  than  two  or  three  seers,  and  generally  not 
more  than  one,  from  which  the  calf  must  have  its  share. 
Few  country  cows  will  give  any  milk  if  the  calf  is  taken 
from  them.  It  depends  upon  the  constitution  of  the  cow 
how  nearly  she  may  be  milked  to  the  time  of  her  calving, 
— also  on  the  quantity  and  cost  of  feeding.  When  pas- 
turage is  abundant,  the  best  way  is  to  keep  such  a  stock 
of  cows  as  will  enable  you  to  have  a  succession  in  milk. 
The  expense  of  tending  them  out  grazing  is  the  same  for 
a  dozen  as  a  couple,  a  man  being  required  to  milk,  feed 
and  pen  up    the  calves    morning  and    evening.t   The    quan- 


*  The  natiyes  scUom  if  ever  give  gram  to  their  catUe  ;  and,  previous  to  calving, 
Oard  is  the  principal  grain  given ; — also  Tonr,  Chenna,  and  others  that  are  cheap. 
Tlie  Oord  is  first  boiled  and  then  mixed  with  oil, — say  one -eighth  of  a  seer  of  oil  to 
one  seer  of  Oord,  and  this  is  o^ven  to  a  cow,  and  twice  the  quantity  to  a  bufifaloe. 

t  At  an  the  towns  and  villages  there  are  herdsmen  who  collect  and  take  out  the 
cstik  to  feed  of  a  morning,  and  bring  them  back  in  the  evening,  chaI^^ifig  so  moch 
A  head, — Irom  two  to  eight  annas, — a  month. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


12  INDIAN   DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 

tity  of  gram  to  be  given  to  each  cow  daily  must  neces- 
sarily depend  upon  her  milk.  For  a  common  country  cow 
half  a  seer  soaked  at  each  milking  is  sufficient;  double  the 
quantity  will  be  required  for  a  Nellore,  or  Guzerat  qow. 
In  selecting  a  cow  for  purchase  the  Natives  give  preference 
to  those  with  fine  thin  skin,  good  looking  udder  (not  de- 
pending upon  the  size),  and  long  thin  tails.  Colour  is  a 
matter  of  no  consequence ;  of  course  if  the  cow  does  not 
promise  from  her  appearance,  when  in  full  calf,  to  give  a 
fair  share  of  milk,  no  one  would  think  of  becoming  a  pur- 
cliascr.  The  price  of  a  good  Guzeratti  cow  is  from  30  to 
70  rupees  or  more;  the  Nellore  probably  not  quite  so  much, 
and  a  country  cow  from  five  to  fifteen  rupees.  It  is  ne- 
cessary that  a  cow  should  be  fed  while  being  milked  so  as 
to  induce  her  to  give  it  down  freely ;  the  natives  generally 
allow  the  calf  to  suck  at  the  same  time;  before  the  cows 
are  milked  the  teats  should  be  washed  and  wiped.  The 
milk  of  some  cows  yields  more  cream  than  that  of  others. 
The  cream  yielded  by  the  last  half  of  the  milking  is  always 
the  best,  provided  the  udder  is  properly  emptied.  Water 
added  to  milk  causes  it  to  throw  up  a  larger  quantity  of 
cream  than  if  unmixed,  but  the  cream  is  of  a  very  inferior 
quality.  Milk  carried  to  a  distance  before  it  is  set  for 
cream,  or  in  any  other  way  shaken,  gives  much  less  cream, 
and  also  thinner,  than  that  which  has  not  been  agitated. 
Milk  should  always  be  strained  before  setting  for  cream. 
The  cream  being  churned,  and  strained  from  the  butter- 
milk,  is  to  have  the  remains  of  the  buttermilk  carefully 
squeezed  from  it  with  as  little  working  of  the  butter  as 
possible,  and  then  moulded  into  the  form  necessary;  it 
should  never  be  touched  during  the  making  by  the  hand, 
but  worked  up  with  a  wooden  spatula.  Butter  is  always  in- 
jured in  its  quality  by  being  kept  in  water,  nor  wQl  it  keep 
so  long  as  if  in  a  cool  vessel  that  is  porous,  with  moisture 
round  it.  The  only  cheeses  made  in  this  country  are  cream 
or  common  white  curd,  directions  for  miOLing  which  will 
be   found   under  a    separate   head  of  tlie  present  worl« 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  13 

The  feeding  of  these  animals  for  the  table 
Calves.  (as  in  Europe)  is  seldom  carefully  attended  to; 
but  should  you  desire  to  have  good  veal,  you 
must  allow  the  calf  the  whole  of  its  mother's  milk,  and 
for  the  first  week  break  a  raw  egg  into  its  mouth  every 
day;  the  second  week,  give  it  two  eggs,  and  increase  the 
number  weekly,  until  it  has  had  six  daily,  when  it  will  be 
found  fat  and  fit  to  kill — not  such  half-starved  meat  as  is 
usually  sold  as  veal,  but  approaching  in  flavour  to  an  English 
dairy-fed  calf.  If  you  do  not  choose  to  give  it  eggs,  let 
the  calf  run  to  another  cow,  as  the  expense  with  a  country 
bred  animal  is  very  trifling*  Calves  may  be  reared  upon 
skimmed  milk  as  in  Europe,  but  then  the  milk  must  not  be 
allowed  to  stand  more  than  a  few  hours,  otherwise  it  will 
get  sour.  At  first  the  milk  must  be  put  into  a  vessel  and 
the  hand  immersed  in  it,  giving  a  finger  for  the  calf  to  suck 
and  draw  the  milk  up  by  ;  or  else  put  the  milk  into  a  leather 
bag,  funnel'shaped,  with  a  small  opening  for  the  calf  to  suck 
it  out  by;  this  is  the  common  native  practice,  but  after 
a  few  days,  the  calf  will  drink  it  very  readily  from  the 
vessel  it  is  offered  in.  In  Europe  chalk  is  placed  in  the  pen 
where  the  calf  is  confined,  for  it  to  lick ;  this  is  done,  not 
as  is  generally  supposed  to  whiten  the  meat,  but  to  correct 
the  acidity  of  the  milk. 

The  finest  description  of  these  animals  to  be 
Bi^aioes.  found  throughout  Hindoslan  are  those  along 
the  banks  of  the  Ganges,  as  well  as  in  some 
parts  of  the  Deccan  about  Jefferabad,  Amarouttee,  and 
Mahore,  east  of  Hingolie.  The  quantity  of  milk  from  the 
finest  bred  animals  has  been  known  to  be  equal  to  that  of 
first  rate  English  cows,  being  upwards  of  five  galloiTs  in 
the  twenty-four  hours,  bat  this  is  very  uncommon.  The 
average  supply  received  from  a  good  buffaloe,  in  full  milk, 
may  be  about  from  six  to  eight  seers,  from  a  common 
one  seldom  more  than  four;  and,  if  not  carefully  attended 
to,  they  soon   fall  off  even    firom   that  quantity.     The   milk 


Digitized  by 


Google 


14  INDIAN    DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 

of  the  buifaloe  is  extremely  rich,  and  answers  all  domestic 
purposes,  yielding  a  rich  cream,  butter,  cheese,  and  ghee. 
In  choosing  'a  buffaloe,  select  the  fine  dark  black  or  light 
brown,  with  a  good  barrel,  short  legged^  thin  necked,  flat 
and  broad  hind  quarters  and  large  open  eyes.  Their  food 
consists  generally  of  grass,  hay,  kirbee,  bran,  oil-cake,  cot- 
ton seed,  &c.  But  when  they  have,  calved  the  best  food 
to  give  them  besides  grass  for  the  first  week  at  milking 
time,  is  bdiled  jawaree  and  baujeroe,  about  one  seer  of  each, 
with  a  table  spoonfull  of  zeera.  When  brought  home  to 
be  milked,  cotton  seed  or  oil-cake  is  given  to  them.  They 
delight  in  water,  and  will  not  thrive  unless  they  have  a 
swamp  or  pond  to  wallow  in.  There  rolling  themselves, 
they  work  hollows,  when  immersed,  deep  enough  to  leare 
nothing  but  their  horns,  nostrils,  and  6yes  above  the  water. 
When  a  buffaloe  has  calved  the  young  one  is  immediately 
taken  from  her  and  brought  up  by  hand  ;  if  a  male,  it  is 
given  away,  being  considered  useless  except  for  draft  or  to 
breed  with.  The  males  are  very  savage,  and  if  taken  out 
to  the  jungles  with  other  cattle,  will  fight  even  the  tiger  ; 
should  he  venture  to  attack  the  herd,  the  female  will  aiso 
make  the  same  resistance.  The  milk  sells  from  eight  to 
twenty  seers  the  rupee,  and  ghee  made  from  it  with  care 
may  be  considered  one  of  the  most  useful  of  domestic 
articles,  and  will    keep   sweet   and   good   for   years. 

These  are  procurable  in  all  parts  of  India, 
Goais,  of  a  fine  description,  though  varying  much  in 
appearance.  The  Surat  goat  brought  to  Bom- 
bay is  highly  prized.  It  is  short-legged,  well  formed,  round 
and  compact,  giving  as  much  milk  as  a  seer  at  a  time. 
The  *kid  affords  a  delicate  meat,  for  which  Bombay  has 
long  been  celebrated.  The  goats  from  the  banks  of  the 
Jumna  in  Hindostan  are  a  long-legged  breed,  but  excel- 
lent milchers ;  so  are  some  from  the  southern  part  of 
India.  They  all  feed  alike,  and  will  eat  leaves  and  roots 
where     no     other    animal   could    find    a   subsistence.     It    is 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  15 

• 

necessary  to  give  a  little  grain^  morning  and  evenings  to 
your  milch  goats.  Half  a  seer  to  each  of  gram,  or  other 
grain  at  a  time  is  quite  sufficient,  and,  if  you  have  a 
garden,  the  refuse  leaves  from  any  vegetable  wiU  be  greedi- 
ly eaten  by  them,  as  also  cakes  of  bread  made  from  the 
common  sorts  of  grain,  such  as  jawaree,  baujeroe,  &c. 
Where  there  are  children,  a  milch  goat  about  the  house  is 
invaluable;  but  remember  they  are  very  destructive  to  a 
garden  and  must  be  carefully  looked  after.  The  kid  should 
not  be  allowed  tg  follow  the  mother  if  you  require  her 
milk,  unless  some  means  is  adopted  to  prevent  its  sucking, 
either  by   a  muzzle  or  tying   her  teats. 

Bengal  has  long  been  celebrated  for  its  gram- 
Skeq^.  fed  mutton,  which   gives  the  meat  a  flavour  far 

superior  to  any  other  method  of  fattening ;  the 
grain  of  the  meat  is  not  finer  than  that  of  sheep  in  other 
parts  of  India,  as,  undoubtedly  in  the  Deccan,  where  there 
is  good  green  grass  pasturage,  the  meat  is  fine  and  ex- 
tremely sweet,  and  mixed  with  a  proportionate  quantity  of 
fat.  To  the  southward  there  is  a  large  breed  of  sheep  of  a 
reddish  colour  that,  if  fed  on  grain  like  the  Bengal,  will 
become  fat,  as  easily  retaining  the  same  flavour  and  quali- 
ties. Perhaps  much  of  the  estimation  in  which  Bengal 
gram-fed  mutton  is  held  arises  from  the  shepherd^s  making 
wedders  of  the  males,  when  young, — a  practice  not  gen- 
erally adopted,  but  very  essential  to  having  fine-flavoured 
mutton.  In  the  case  of  sheep,  it  is  necessary  that  their 
pens  should  be  clean  and  dry,  and  secured  from  the 
attacks  of  wild  animals.  They  may  be  taken  to  feed  with 
goats,  but  should  never  be  driven  out  before  the  dew  is 
off  the  ground,  and  should  always  be  brought  home  of  an 
evening  when  they  are  to  have  their  grain  given  to  them; 
such  sheep  as  you  are  about  to  prepare  for  fattening  will 
require  less  than  those  you  intend  to  kill,  being  already 
&t.  If,  for  instance,  you  kill  once  or  twice  a  week,  you 
will  replace  the   slaughtered   one  by  another  from  the  flock. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


16  INDIAN    DOMESTIC   SCONOMY 

and  80  continne.  The  selection  for  killing  should  fall  upon 
that  sheep  which  is  in  the  habit  of  rushing  to  the  gram 
trough  shoving  the  others  aside ;  he  generally  is  in  the  beat 
condition.  Sheep  should  at  first  have  the  grain  broken  for 
them  and  a  little  salt  every  third  day,  or  so,  mixed  witli 
it ;  it  is  useless  giving  sheep  grain  until  thef  have  eight 
teeth  in  front,  and  then  the  proper  quantity  for  each, 
averages  about  half  a  seer  daily.  In  some  parts  of  Bengal, 
where  grain  is  very  cheap^  the  whole  flock  is  fed  on  it. 
A  sheep  is  allowed  to  get  fat,  and  fall  off,  and  again  fat* 
tened  before  he  is  killed;  which  very  much  lidghtens  the 
flavor  of  the  meat.  This  is  two  or  three  times  repeated. 
The  lambs,  besides  sucking  the  ewes,  are  fattened  with 
ground  gram,  sugar  and  milk ;  the  Hindostan  shepherds 
understand  this  well,  and  the  meat  is  deliciously  sweet. 
The  proper  time  for  making  wedders  of  them  is  when  they 
are  about  three  weeks  old. 

House  lamb  is  very  seldom  procurable,  though  some- 
times the  natives  will  bring  them  up  for  the  purpose  of 
sale,  where  there  is  a  demand  for  such  meat.  They  are 
fed  on  native  bread,  milk  and  vegetables — in  feict,  pretty 
much   in  the   same  way   they   are    at   home. 

These    animals    when    reared  in    a  stye,    for 
Piff9.  domestic  purposes,   are  very  useful,  and  Ao  not 

give  much  trouble.  The  China  breed  being 
round,  short-legged  and  of  a  docile  temper,  are  to  be  pre- 
ferred, but  if  crossed  with  English  or  any  other  breeds 
make  much  flner  pork  and  bacon,  as  they  do  not  run  so 
much  to  fat^  and  the  bacon  becomes  more  streaky.  If  you 
desire  to  bring  up  several  young  pigs  for  porkers  or  bacon, 
rail  off  a  space  of  a  few  square  yards  independent  of  the 
stye,  that  they  may  roam  about,  as  it  is  not  beneficial  to 
confine  them  at  first,  and  give  them  any  spare  vegetable 
with  their  food  daily ;  but  as  soon  as  you  wish  to  fatten 
them,  let  the  food  be  as  nourishing  -as  possible,  and  remem- 
ber they  wiB    fatten    much  sooner  on   boiled  food  than  raw. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKBET.  17 

Thej  should  also  have  plenty  of  clean  water  to  drink.  The 
tame  pig  gives  from  6  to  11  young  ones  at  a  time  and  carries 
ber  yoong  16  weeks.  They  sometimes  breed  twice  a  year, 
but  the  more  usual  time  is  once  in  eight  months.  Clean- 
liness is  essentially  necessary  to  rearing  pigs  in  India,  and  the 
best  way  to  attain  this  end  is  to  have  the  stye  paved  with 
luge  stones,  so  that  they  cannot  be  turned  up ;  yet  a  sow  that 
is  breeding  will  get  on  better,  if  she  has  plenty  of  grass,  on  a 
good  clay  floor,  which  should  be  kept  just  moderately  moist^ 
80  as  to  be  cool,  bat  neither  swampy  nor  wet.  Before  they 
firrow  they  are  very  fond  of  scraping  a  hole  to  lie  in,  and  if 
tbe  ground  is  dry  and  dusty  the  young  ones  are  apt  to 
get  smothered;  this  is  known  to  have  been  the  case  with 
a  htter  where  there  was  a  chunam  floor.  The  sow  may 
be  pat  with  the  boar  from  a  month  to  six  weeks  after 
farrowing,  though  it  is  much  better  to  wait  a  longer  period. 
The  young  are  seldom  fit  to  roast  under  a  month,  tmd 
tbere  will  generally  be  found  in  a  litter  one  larger  than 
the  rest.  This  is  not,  as  is  supposed  by  some,  the  mother's 
farorite,  but  is  the  strongest,  and  manages,  by  thrusting 
tbe  others  aside,  to  get  the  largest  share  of  milk.  Of 
course  he   is  the  first   for   roasting. 

The  stye  may  be  bailt  of  stone,  bricks,  or  wood,  and,  if 
not  for  breeding  sows,  should  always  be  well  paved,  and 
on  a  slope,  that  water  may  be  thrown  ov^  it  to  keep 
the  animals  cool  and  clean— giving  them  during  the  rainy 
and  cold  weather  plenty   of  straw  or  grass  to  lie   on. 

Heir  food  may  consist  of  the  refuse  from  the  garden, 
table  and  kitchen,  or  rice  boosah  mixed  with  buttermilk. 
They  thrive  very  well  on  boiled  grain,  such  as  jawaree, 
cooltie,  &c.  Gram  are  they  also  very  fond  of;  and  if  you 
wish  for  fine,  firm,  fleshy  bacon,  it  is  the  best  grain  they 
can  have  when  fattening.  The  food,  whatever  it  is,  should 
be  put'  into  troughs  for  them  to  eat  out  of,  and  the  best 
I  have  found  are  those  cut  out  of  stone,  as  being  strong, 
as  well    as   heavy  and  not  easily  turned  over,  which,  if   it 

bappens,    occasions   a  great  loss  of    food.    Where    pigs  are 

c 


Digitized  by 


Google 


18  INDIAN  DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

kept  it  is  necessary  to  have  a  Hindoo  servant  to  attend 
and  feed  them,  and  this  duty  is  generally  performed  by 
one  of  the  Mihtur  caste. 

The  successful  management  of  these  animals 
Mahbits.  consists  in  cleanliness  and  proper  feeding,  keep- 
ing them  dry,  and  in  the  open  air,  and  shel- 
tering them  from  rain  and  sun.  The  boxes  or  hutches  in 
which  they  are  kept  should  be  swept  out  every  day,'  and 
holes  made  in  the  bottom,  so  that  they  may  be  as  dry 
as  possible.  The  breeding  hutches  for  does  should  have  a 
separate  compartment,  with  a  door  at  the  end  for  the  pur- 
pose of  cleaning  it  out  when  necessary,  but  this  door  should 
never  be  opened  after  the  doe  has  littered,  until  the 
young  ones  are  able  to  run  about.  Some  does  are  so  shy 
that  if  you  disturb  them  in  any  way  at  the  early  stage 
after  giving  young,  they  destroy  them  immediately.  Bab- 
bits are  very  prolific ;  their  period  of  gestation  is  one 
calendar  month.  The  does  when  about  to  breed  should 
have  fine  dry  grass  given  to  them  to  make  their  beds  with, 
which  they  line  by  plucking  hair  from  the  breast  and 
stomach.  The  young  ones  may  be  separated  from  the  does 
when  a  month  old,  but  it  is  better  to  let  them  remain  a 
fortnight  longer,  as  it  increases  their  size ;  the  feeding  of 
them  carefully  after  this,  is  principally  to  be  attended  to. 
They  should  be  kept  in  a  separate  hutch;  by  themselves 
and  fed  at  regular  periods ;  for  if  seldom  fed  and  in  large 
quantities,  they  overfill  their  stomachs  and  become  what 
is  called  pot-bellied.  The  best  food  is  lucerne,  cabbage, 
lettuce  leaves,  and  sliced  carrots,  also  wild  endive,  with  bran 
of  the  first  sort,  and  ground  gram  a  little  moistened,  also 
jawaree.  A  doe  may  be  put  with  the  buck  when  her 
young  ones  are  a  month  old.  The  number  a  doe  produces 
at  a  litter  varies;,  some  giving  three  and  others  as  many 
as  seven  or  more  young  ones.  The  buck  should  always 
have  a  roomy  hutch  to  himself,  with  plenty  of  gram  and 
dry  food.    The  young    bucks   intended  for  fattening  should 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKBftT.  19 

be  cut  when  about  a  month  old.    This  can    be   done  by 
indsioni  or  ligature. 

Sabbits  may  be  kept  in  an  artificial  warren  by  digging  a 
large  square  hole  about  six  feet  deep,  lining  it  with  a  brick 
Tall,  and  then  filling  up  the  hole  again  with  earth  and  water 
or  day,  beating  it  well  down.  This  must  be  surrounded  with 
another  wall,  and  covered  in,  so  that  no  animal  can  disturb 
the  rabbits  which  are  here  put^  and  left  to  burrow  as  they 
please.  An  opening  should  be  made  into  a  separate  room 
or  yard,  with  a  sliding  door  where  their  food  is  to  be  placed 
for  them  to  feed.  This  is  done  with  the  view  of  catching 
and  selecting  them  when  at  their  meals.  In  some  situa- 
tioDS,  where  the  ground  is  of  a  hard  stony  nature,  so  ,  as 
not  to  require  a  wall  beneath,  it  is  only  necessary  to  exca- 
vate the  place  and  fill  it  up  with  earth,  as  before  directed, 
moistening  it  with  water,  and  beating  it  down  firm. 

MANAGEMENT  OF  POULTRY. 
The  time  of  incubation  with  the  domestic 
SomeJfiic  fowl  is  three  weeks,  and  during  that  period  the 
Fwh.  fowl  generally,  if  left  to  herself,  will  leave  her 
eggs  once  in  twenty-four  hours  to  feed,  shake 
her  feathers^  and  exercise  her  limbs.  Some  fowls  are  such 
close  sitters  that  they  will  not  leave  their  nest  even  for 
this  purpose — so  intent  are  they  on  their  maternal  duties. 
In  such  a  case  the  hen  must  be  lifted  carefully  from  her 
eggs,  and  put  out  to  feed,  when,  after  a  short  time,  habit 
will  induce  her  to  leave  them  at  the  same  time  each  day. 
A.  sitting  hen  daily  turns  her  eggs^  and  if  she  were  not 
to  do  this,  the  heat  from  her  body  would  be  unequally  distri- 
buted, and  the  yolk  would  become  misplaced.  A  laying 
hen  must  do  this,  as  she  could  not  deposit  the  requisite 
rnunber  of  eggs  for  a  brood  in  less  than  fifteen  days,  and 
in  a  fourth  part  of  that  period,  the  yolk  would  have  sunk 
through  the  white,  and  come  in  contact  with  the  shell, 
which  being  porous  would  have  admitted  the  atmosphere 
ind  the  vital  principle  would  have  become  inert,   and    the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


20  INDIAN   DOMBSnC   ECONOMT 

egg  be  addled.  As  early  as  the  third  day  of  incubation  the 
nature  of  the  egg  is  altered  and  rendered  unfit  for  use.  The 
yolk  of  the  egg  is  devoted  exclusively  to  the  nourishment 
of  the  chicken  in  embryo^  and  if  this,  by  the  admission 
of  air,  as  I  have  before  observed,  is  injured,  the  brood  is 
destroyed.  Chickens  may  be  left  under  the  mother  without 
injury  for  a  couple  of  days,  as  her  care  and  warmth  are 
far  better  calculated  to  rear  them  than  any  artificial  means. 
As  nature  has  pointed  out  the  means  of  preserving  her  eggs 
to  the  mother,  it  is  plain  that  the  same  plan  of  turning 
them  daily  is  necessary  to  keep  them  fresh  and  equal  to 
new  laid.  When  a  batch  of  young  chickens  is  hatched, 
it  is  hardly  necessary  to  confine  them  under  baskets  or 
coops,  as  they  thrive  better  by  being  allowed  to  foUow 
the  hen  about,  and  only  require  food  to  be  given  them 
once  or  twice  a  day.  They  must  at  night  be  carefully 
shut  up  with  the  mother  in  a  basket,  on  straw  or  fine  dry 
grass,  and  let  out  early  in  the  morning.  The  food  may 
be  rice  or  jawaree.  Game  fowls  require  much  more  care 
than  the  common.  The  same  treatment  as  to  food,  &c. 
for  the  turkey  will  here  perhaps  be  found  the  best.  It  is 
not  advisable  to  put  the  game  hens  on  their  own  eggs, 
as  they  are  too  heavy  and  clumsy  birds,  very  often  de- 
stroying the  young  ones,  like  tuAeys,  from  trampling  and 
pressing  them  to  death,  even  whilst  resting  at  night.  The 
common  hens  should  therefore  be  preferred,  and,  as  they 
are  small,  not  more  than  seven  eggs  should  be  placed 
under  them  at  a  time.  It  is  very  difficult  to  get  the 
thorough  game  breed,  and,  in  many  of  the  large  cities  in 
India  that  are  celebrated  for  them,  the  owners  of  the  fowls, 
if  constrained  to  sell  the  eggs,  often '*dip  them  in  hpt 
water  previous  to  doing  so,  with  the  view  of  destroying 
their  vitality.  Even  any  rough  motion  will  have  the 
same  effect,  by  rupturing  the  membranes  which  keep  the 
white,  the  yolk,  and  the  germ  of  the  chick  in  their  ap- 
propriate places,  and  upon  these  becoming  injured  or  mixed, 
putrefaction  is  promoted. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  SI 

Persons  desiroas  of  breeding  their  own  stock  may  com- 
mence at  any  time  of  the  year^  although  that  after  the 
first  fall  of  rain  and  during  the  cold  weather  is  the  most 
fiivourable,  when  turkeys,  guinea  fowls,  and  chickens  may 
easily  be  reared.  Ducks  and  geese  are  later  in  laying, 
though  the  former  will  sometimes  continue  to  give  eggs 
throughout  the  year.  Geese  seldom  lay  more  than  one 
batch  of  eggs  in  the  year,  and  the  period  during  which 
they  usually   lay,  is  from  August  to   January. 

I  may  mention,  for  the  information  of  persons  rearing 
their  own  poultry,  that  an  enclosed,  sheltered  spot,  well 
secured  either  by  a  trellis  work,  or  wall  sufficiently  high 
to  confine  the  stock,  is  necessary,  in  which  there  should 
be  a  shallow  pond,  or  chunam  tank,  for  the  ducks,  in  some 
convenient  part,-  as  else  they  are  occasionally  drowned,  if 
care  be  not  taken  that  the  sides  slope  sufficiently  for  the 
animals  to  get  in  and  out  with  ease.  There  should  also 
be  patches  of  gravel  for  the  fowls  to  roll  in  and  clean  them- 
selves, as  well  as  for  food;  and,  if  protected  by  a  shed,  the 
better,  under  which  should  be  a  few  pits  filled  with  dry 
sand  or  ashes  from  the  kitchen,  &c.  for  the  birds  to  wallow 
in.  The  fowl-house  should  be  large  and  roomy,  and  if 
tiled  the  better,  as  being  cooler  and  safer  from  animals. 
The  door  should  be  well  secured  and  inaccessible  to  vermin, 
vith  a  hole  sufficiently  large  for  the  fowls  to  pass  through, 
bnt  admitting  of  being  well  closed  at  nights,  or,  if  require- 
ed,  at  any  other  time.  Around  the  room  there  may  be 
boxes,  pans,  or  baskets  fixed  at  a  proper  distance  from 
each  other,  either  in  the  wall  or  on  the  floor,  perfectly  ac- 
cessible, for  the  hens  to  lay  and  sit  in*  Fowls  are  very 
stupid  in  recognizing  their  own  nests,  and  often  interfere 
with  each  other,  so  as  to  spoil  a  hatch.  Care  should  be 
taken  to  mark  the  basket  or  box  in  which  a  hen  has  com- 
menced to  sit,  putting  the  date  down  in  a  book,  or  marked 
in  some  other  way.  The  room  should  be  frequently  white- 
washed,  and  wood  ashes  sprinkled  plentifully  about;  and 
after   a  batch  of  chickens   have  been  hatched,  the  boxes  or 


Digitized  by 


Google 


22  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMT 

baskets  should  be  scalded  or  famigated  with  smoke,  to  kill 
the  vennin  and  fleas,  which  are  almost  certain  to  collect. 
The  hens  whilst  sitting  should  be  at  liberty  at  all  times 
to  leave  their  eggs  to  procure  food  or  wallow  in  the  ashes 
put  on  purpose  for  them.  If,  for  want  of  accommodation, 
you  are  obliged  to  keep  your  ducks  and  geese  in  the  same 
place  with  your  poultry,  they  should  be  separated  by  a 
division,  and  the  two  latter  species  again  divided  and  kept 
apart.  It  is  essentially  necessary  that  the  fowl-house  be 
continually  swept  out,  and  the  floor  and  walls  occasionally 
washed  with  fresh  chunam  water  to  destroy  the  vermin, 
or  else  it  is  impossible  for  a  visitor  to  inspect  the  stock. 
Glean  water  should  also  be  near  in  pans  for  the  poultry 
to  resort  to   whenever  so  inclined. 

In  selecting  fowls  for  the  table,  it  is  in  this  country 
almost  impossible  to  obtain  any  particular  breed.  Choose 
your  birds  young,  weU  shaped,  and  in  a  healthy  condition. 
If  you  cannot  appropriate  a  room,  you  must  keep  them  in 
a  feeding  coop,  or  under  baskets  made  on  purpose;  only 
be  careful  that  cats,  the  moong90se,  or  other  vermin  can- 
not get  at  them,  and  see  that  they  are  not  crowded ;  pro- 
vided you  keep  them  clean  and  supply  them  with  jawaree, 
ricey  gravel)  and  water,  there  is  little  else  necessary,  and, 
by  substituting  fresh  fowls  for  those  killed  off,  you  may 
always  have  at  hand  a  few  pairs  of  fowls  ready  for  the 
table. 

To  fatten  fowls,  when  you  put  them  up,  first  mix  some 
fine  bran  and  ground  jawaree,  wheat,  or  rice,  together 
with  warm  water ;  let  them  pick  this  for  four  or  five  days, 
then  cram  them  with  ground  rice,  wheat,  or  jawaree,  with 
a  little  mutton  fat  chopped  fine  and  mixed,  for  about  a 
fortnight,  when    they  will  be  in  prime  order. 

Chickens  should  pick  on  ground  grain  with  milk  and  a 
little  fat  for  a  week  at  least  before  cramming,  and  do  not 
afterwards    force  them  too  fast. 

Capons  should  be  crammed  for  three  weeks  the  same  as 
fowls.    Turkeys   require  a  month   to  fatten ;  give  them  rice 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  23 

boiled  in  millc  with  ground  grain^  and  some  fat  mixed  in 
the  same  manner  as*  for  fowls. 

Qive  geese  and  ducks  coarse  boosali^  mixed  with  soaked 
jawaree  and  water  or  buttermilk,  for  a  few  days ;  then 
give  dry  g|fun,  such  as  rice  in  husk,  jawaree,  and  clean 
water,  also  some  fine  gravel.  Do  not  let  them  wet  their 
feet,  but  give  dean  straw  to  lie  upon ;  feed  them  three 
times  a  day  at  regular  hours,  and  give  them  no  more 
tlian  they  can  eat  at  once  without  leaving  any,  and  water 
only  once  a  day.  In  two  or  three  weeks  ducks,  and,  in 
three  or  fouv,  geese,   will  thus   be   good. 

Ducks  that  are  kept  in  a  small  mclosure  with  a  pool  or 
tank  to  wash  in,  will  get  very  fat  on  common  grain  and 
plenty  of  chopped  vegetables,  such  being  given  to  them  daily. 

As  a  general  rule,  keep  your  poultry  for  fattening  clean, 
keep  them  in  darkness  after  •  their  meal,  let  them  have 
milk  to  drink,  and,  immediately  before  you  kill  them, 
nothing  but  congee  water  made  with  rice.  By  these  means 
you  will  have  delicate,   white,   and  fat  poultry  for  table. 

Lay  from  fifteen  to  twenty  eggs,  and  at  all 
Turiejfs,  seasons.  The  hen  will  sit  and  bring  out  the 
young,  but  they  are  very  careless  mothers,  eating 
the  food  greedily  that  is  prepared  for  their  young  ones, 
and  trampling  upon  them  when  moving  about.  A  hen  sits 
upon  her  eggs  for  twenty-five  or  twenty-six  days,  and  will 
lay  them  in  any  secluded  spot.  When  you  find  a  nest, 
do  not  remove  the  whole  of  the  eggs  at  once  unless  she 
has  done  laying.  If  she  has  only  lately  commenced,  take 
away  a  part,  but  be  certain  to  leave  a  nest  egg,  and 
tatch  her  daily. 

When  she  lays  her  egg,  then  remove  it,  and  continue 
this  until  she  is  inclined  to  sit.  The  time  of  incubation 
I  have  known  to  vary,  but  on  the  twenty-fifth  day  the 
chickens  make  their  appearance  generally.  Do  not  remove 
them  until  the  whole  are  come  out,  unless  the  hen  has  got  off 
the  eggs  herself.    In  that  case,  take  away   the  young  ones. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


2i  INDIAN   DOUESTXC   BCONOMT 

and  put  them  in  a  basket  lined  with  cotton  and  keep  them 
safe;  when  they  are  all  hatched  the  hen  should  be  removed 
into  a  dry  spot^  and  let  some  chopped  eggs^  onions^  and 
pounded  grain,  mixed,  be  given  to  her  and  the  young  ones; 
let  her  eat  her  fill.  Large  baskets  of  a  con^  shape  are 
most  convenient  for  rearing  them  under.  If  the  hen  is 
careless  with  her  chickens,  treading  on  them,  she  must  be 
taken  away  and  kept  outside,  and  the  young  ones  fed  by 
themselves,  until  they  are  strong  enough  to  run  about  and 
get  out  of  her  way ;  if  you  have  a  person  to  watch  them^ 
the  hen  may  be  allowed  to  roam  about,  as  the  young 
ones  thrive  faster  and  considerably  better  on  the  seed  and 
insects  they  pick  up  in  grass,  than  when  wholly  confined. 
At  all  events,  they  should  be  allowed  to  feed  in  this  way 
morning  and  evening.  When  the  young  ones  are  put  up 
with  the  hen  at  night,  see  that  she  has  fine  soft  grass  in  the 
basket  in  which  she  sits  to  cover  the  young  ones,  otherwise 
you  may  find  one-half  killed  by  her  smothering  them  during 
the  night.  If  the  young  ones  appear  to  mope,  and  do  not 
seem  lively,  put  two  or  three  grains  of  black  pepper  down 
their  throats.  It  may  be  bruised  at  first,  but  this  is  not 
of  much  consequence.  The  ground  on  which  the  basket 
is  kept  during  the  day  must  be  dry,  and  should  also  be 
shaded  from  the  sun.  After  the  young  ones  are  feathered 
there  is  little  trouble  with  them ;  they  eat  greedily  chopped 
onions,  salad^  hard  eggs,  bread  and  milk,  or  in  fact  any- 
thing. The  young  ones  should  never  be  let  out  when  the 
dew  is  on  the  ground,  and  should  always  be  taken  in  a 
little  after  sunset.  Turkeys  certainly  thrive  better  when 
allowed  to  roam  about,  but  require  to  be  watched  on  their 
excursions,  and  will,  if  fed  in  any  particular  spot,  return 
to  it  at  the  customary  hour.  When  Turkeys,  or  fowls,  or 
chickens  get  the  chicken-pox,  what  the  natives  call  mattie 
(and  to  which  they  are  very  subject  in  the  rains),  both  old 
and  young,  pounded  charcoal  and  bruised  onions,  mixed 
with  a  little  cocoa-nut  oil,  if  rubbed  over  the  pimples 
about  the  head  for  a  few  times,   is  almost  a  certain  cure ; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  25 

care  at  the  same  time  most  be  taken  that  the  eyes  are  not 
closed  over  by  the  disease,  for  if  so,  the  birds  cannot  see 
to  feed,  and  large  turkeys  or  fowls  will  then  require  to 
be  crammed    with  food,   or  else  they    die  from   starvation. 

These  are  reared  when  young  precisely  in 
Guinea  the  same  manner  as  turkeys;  only  the  female 
/owls*  in  this  case  seldom  hatches  her  eggs;  when  she 
does  it  is  necessary  to  keep  her  confined  under 
a  large  basket  or  coop.  The  young  ones  should  have 
white  ants  given  to  them  twice  or  thrice  a  day,  with  hard 
boiled  eggs^  rice,  and  onions  chopped  fine.  It  is  particu* 
larly  necessary  to  keep  them  in  dry  ground  and  sheltered 
from  rain  and  sun.  If  they  appear  sickly,  put  a  few  black 
pepper  corns  down  their  throats.  One  hen  will  lay  as 
many  as  sixty  eggs,  hut  only  during  the  rains.  Their 
time  of  incubation  is  twenty-five  days.  When  you  wish 
to  hatch  a  brood  under  a  common  hen,  never  put  more 
than  eleven  or  thirteen  eggs,  and  after  she  has  sat  about 
fourteen  days  you  may  ascertain  if  they  are  good  by  gently 
ahakiiig  each  egg  separately,  when  if  addled  it  will  be  per« 
ceived  at  once  by  its  sound  as  if  filled  with  water;  or  by 
holding  the  egg  firmly  in  the  hand  near  the  ear,  the  young 
one  wiU  generally  be  heard  to  chirp.  When  a  hen  has 
died  on  her  eggs,  before  the  time  of  hatching,  they  may 
be  brought  out,  by  putting  them  in  flannel  near  a  fire, 
or  exposing  them  to  the  sun;  by  this  means  the  whole 
batch  will  sometimes  be  brought  forth,  though  there  is 
trouble  in  first  teaching  them  to  feed,  but  which  they  soon 
learn  if  they  have  a  young  chicken  placed  with  them;  or 
at  night  they  may  be  put  under  another  hen  that  has 
young  ones.  When  a  hen  is  let  out  to  feed  with  her 
I  brood,  care  should  be  taken  to  protect  them  from  hawks, 
crows,   &c. 

These    commence  laying  in    September,    and 
Gee^e.      -    continue  until  February,    sometimes   later.    Their 


Digitized  by 


Google 


26  INDIAN  DOMESTIC   ECONOVT 

period  of  incubation  is  thirty  days.  The  goslings  re- 
quire very  little  looking  after  if  there  is  a  pond,  nul- 
lah, or  tank  where  the  old  one  can  resort;  when  the 
goose  begins  laying  she  should  have  plenty  of  dry  grass 
or  straw  near  her  to  cover  the  eggs  with.  On  her  quitting 
the  nest,  if  there  is  any  danger  of  the  eggs  being 
stolen  or  destroyed,  they  must  be  removed,  leaving  one 
as  a  nest  egg. 

These  hatch  their  own  eggs,  and  sit  25  days. 
Dueha.  They   require   to   be  near  water   with  a   sipping 

bank,  where  they  can  easily  go  in  and  out 
with  their  young  ones,  as  otherwise  they  are  cons<3intIy 
drowned.  Their  food  may  be  either  fine  bran  mixed  in 
water,  or  any  other  sort  of  meal.  Bice  in  its  husk  they 
are  very  fond   of. 

These,  whether  of  the  fancy  or  common  kind, 
Tigeona.  require  pretty  nearly  the  same  treatment,  and, 
as  my  object  is  to  describe  the  simple  mode* 
of  rearing  them  for  domestic  purposes,  it  would  be  use- 
less to  enter  into  a  description  of  the  various  fancy  breeds, 
further  than  to  describe  the  particular  sorts,  which  consist 
of  the  carrier,  pouter,  fantail  or  shaker,  so  called  from 
its  head  being  always  in  motion,  and  the  tumbler.  The 
common  kinds,  generally  kept  for  profit,  vary  both  in 
colour  and  size,  and  seldom  quit  the  place  in  which  they 
are  bred.  The  first  thing  is  to  provide  a  commodious 
place  for  rearing  the  stock,  and  for  this  end  a  room, 
secured  from  the  entrance  of  cats  and  other  destructive 
animals,  is  necessary.  The  door  should  fit  close  and  secure- 
ly, with  an  opening  for  the  pigeons  to  pass  in  and  out, 
and  at  such  a  height  from  the  ground  that  no  animal 
could  pass  or  jump  easily  through,  with  a.  door  or  slide 
o  close  at  night,  and  a  step  or  perch  for  them  to  rest 
upon  on  entering  the  inside  of  the  room.  Chatties  may 
be   built  in  the    wall  (or  pots)   lying  on  their    sides,   with 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKKRT.  87 

the  mouths  projectiBg  from  the  surface  several  inches ;  the 
pots  should  each  be  at  least  one  foot  in  diameter,  and 
the  mouth  from  four  to  six  inches — the  distance  between 
each  chatty  at  least  one  foot.  They  may  in  this  way  be 
arranged  round  the  sides  of  the  wall  as  the  proprietor  may 
please  in  any  number^  or  a  house  may  be  built  on  posts 
with  shelves,  and  close  boxes  inside,  but  then  the  posts 
or  pillars  must  be  defended  so  that  cats  and  other  animals 
cannot  climb  up  into  the  house,  and  this  can  only  be 
done  by  sloping  shelves,  or  else  thorns  kept  bound  round 
them;  this  latter  plan  is  tronblesome.  They  may  also 
be  allowed  to  breed  in  chatties  suspended  under  the  roof 
of  a  flat  verandah  where  no  animals  can  get  near  them. 
"When  the  house  or  dove-cot  is  prepared,  the  next  business 
is  to  stock  it,  and  this  must  be  done  with  young  birds 
just  fledged,  and  which  have  never  essayed  the  wing ;  other- 
wise  they  are  dif&cult  to  retain ;  with  old  birds  it  is  ne- 
cessary to  pluck  the  long  feathers  out  of  one  wing  only, 
and  let  them  remain  in  the  house  until  the  new  feathers 
are  grown,  when  perhaps  they  may  have  formed  some  at- 
tachment to  the  place,  and  will  not  leave  it ;  but  this  is 
not  to  be  depended  upon.  Pigeons  begin  to  breed  when 
they  are  six  months  old,  and  produce  eight  or  ten  couples 
a  year.  When  pigeons  are  confined  to  a  room,  food  and 
fresh  water  must  be  supplied  to  them  daily,  and  in  such 
a  manner  as  to  prevent  the  excrement  contaminating  it ; 
if  confined,  they  must  be  provided  with  green  food,  and 
the  pl^fce  occasionally  cleaned,  after  which  strew  about 
l^enty  of  gravel,  and  take  every  opportunity,  by  white- 
washing, to  destroy  fleas  and  other  vermin.  Pans  of  water 
should  also  be  kept  in  the  place.  They  are  fond  of  gram, 
peas,  jawaree,  and  aU  kinds  of  pulse ;  and  if  they  are  at 
liberty  will  only  require  to  be  fed  once  a  day.  It  is  not 
difficult  to  match  young  ones  according  to  your  wish,  pro- 
vided they  have  not  already  formed  their  attachment.  Eor 
this  purpose  they  must  be  shut  up  together,  or  near,  and 
within    reach    of,    each  other.    The    male  is    distinguished 


Digitized  by 


Google 


28  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  £CX>NOMY 

hj  his  size  and  forwardness  of  action  ;  the  female  lays 
two  eggs,  and,  having  laid  one,  she  rests  a  day,  and  then 
proceeds  to  sit ;  the  period  of  incubation  is  nineteen  days 
from  the  first  egg,  and  the  male  and  female  divide  the 
labour  during  the  day  between  them,  but  at  night  the 
hen  always  sits.  At  the  end  ^of  a  month  the  young 
ones  are  abandoned  and  left  to  shift  for  themselves.  Until 
they  can  fly,  they  are  called  squabs.  When  a  pigeon 
loses  its  mate  it  often  entices  another  from  a  distance, 
and  this  may  account  for  the  loss  of  any  particular  bird. 
Cats,  rats,  and  snakes  often  commit  great  depredations  in 
a  dove-cot ;  also  the  mongoose  when  it  can  effect  an 
entrance.     All  these  enemies  must  be  guarded  against. 

Should  no  young  pigeons  be  produced  after  the  lapse 
of  a  day  or  two  beyond  the  time  of  incubation,  the  eggs 
should  be  removed,  as  they  are  certain  to  be  bad,  and  a 
squab  taken  from  another  pair  substituted.  The  parents 
will  rear  this,  and  feed  off  their  soft  meat,  or  which  might 
otherwise  stagnate  in  their  crop,  and  injure  them*  This 
soft  meat  is  a  sort  of  pap  secreted  in  the  craw  against 
the  time  it  is  required   to  nourish  the  young. 

These,  when  brought  up  by  the  hand,  become 
Pea  fowl,  very  tame,  mixing  with  the  domestic  poultry, 
roosting  on  some  high  tree  at  night  or  the 
cross  beams  of  an  out-house.  The  natives  continually  during 
the  rains  bring  in  the  eggs  from  the  jungle,  and  if  put 
under  a  common  hen  they  are  easily  hatched  and  reared. 
The  food  given  to  the  young  chickens  is  precisely  the  same 
as  for  turkeys  or  guinea  fowls.  The  hen  lays  from  five 
to  seven  eggs,  and  always  leads  her  young  away  from  the 
male  bird  to  feed  until  they  have  got  their  top  knot  feath- 
ers, as  he  kills  them  otherwise*  They  are  ornamental  about 
a  house,  but  very  destructive  to  a  garden.  It  is  said 
that  they  destroy  snakes.  The  young  ones  when  brought 
in  from  the  jungles  must  be  kept  under  a  coop  or  basket 
and  fed   with  bruised    grain  or  millet    seed,   chopped  eggs 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  29 

and  onions,  fine  grass,  and  occasionally  with  white  ants. 
It  does  not  do  to  give  them  too  many  of  the  latter,  as 
th^  are  so  fond  of  them  as  to  refuse  their  other  food. 
If  the  young  are  only  just  hatched^  it  is  difficult  at  first 
to  teach  them  to  feed.  A  young  chicken^  about  their 
own  age^  put  with  them,  will  soon  shew  the  way,  and, 
from  its  habits,  teach  them  to  follow  into  the  basket  in 
which  they  are  kept  during  the  night,  and  save  the  trou- 
ble of  catching  them  for  the  purpose. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTEE  III. 


THE  HOESE  AND    STABLE. 

To  keep  a  horse  in  proper  working  condition^  he  ought 
to  have  at  least  a  three-mile  canter  every  other  day.  If, 
from  not  being  able  to  give  him  this  exercise  yourself,  or  not 
having  a  person  to  ride  for  you,  this  is  impossible,  he 
should  be  walked  at  a  slapping  pace,  not  the  lazy,  lurch- 
ing walk  which  the  horsekeeper  always  allows  the  horse, 
when  led,  to  indulge  in,  for  at  least  an  hour  and  a  half 
of  a  morning,  and  an  hour  in  the  evening. 

If  the  horsekeeper  can  ride  at  all,  it  is  better  to  allow 
him  to  mount  the  horse  with  a  snaffle  bridle,  and  take 
him  at  a  good  walk  for  the  same  period.  Don't  trust 
the  horsekeeper  with  a  curb  bit;  and  when  he  returns,  if 
you  waift  to  preserve  your  nag  from  getting  a  sore  back, 
be  particular  yourself  in  examining  the  saddle  place  for 
any  galls  or  lumps  that  may  have  arisen.  Horsekeepers 
never  will  tell  you  of  these  slight  accidents,  which  taken 
in  time  are  trifles,  but  if  allowed  to  go  on  overlooked  for 
some  days  may  prove  a  serious  nuisance.  A  pad  of  num- 
dah, cut  to  fit  beneath  the  saddle,  will  mostly  prevent 
this  occurring;  the  application  of  salt  and  water  is  gene* 
rally  all  that  is  requisite  for  removing  excoriations  when 
only  of  a  simple  nature,  at  the  same  time  the  saddle 
should  be  fresh  cased  and  padded  as  soon  as  it  begins  to 
be  of  the  least  inconvenience  to  the  horse. 

On  his  being  brought  home,  he  is  to  be  well  rubbed 
down,  and  his  water  given.  Then  the  feet  and  legs  are 
to  be  well  washed  in  warm  water.  Each  leg  to  be  washed 
half  way   up  the  cannon  bone  and  dried  separately.    Horse- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECOl^OMY  AND   COOKERY.  31 

keepers  are  invariably  careless  unless  well  looked  after, 
and  wash  all  four  legs  at  once,  leaving  three  wet  while 
they  are  drying  one.  This  produces  cold  and  swelling  of 
the  legs  constantly,  and  is  likely  to  bring  on  thrushes 
in  the  feet.  His  grain  is  now  to  be  given  him,  and, 
about  half  an  hour  after,  some  more  water  offered,  and 
his  grass   given. 

It  is  better  to  give  all  the  grass  you  intend  giving  him 
between  9  and  12  o'clock  at  once,  as  he  can  then  select 
the  best  himself ;  about  half-past  IS  o'clock  water  is  to  be 
again  given,  and  at  1  o'clock  the  mid-day  feed.  After  this, 
half  of  the  remaining  grass  is  to  be  given;  at  4  the  stall 
shoTdd  be  swept,  the  horse  rubbed  down  and  taken  out  to 
his  evening  exercise.  On  returning  he  is  to  be  again  slightly 
rubbed  down  and  cleaned,  and  the  evening's  water  given, 
then  the  evening's  feed  and  the  rest  of  his  grass.  If  the 
horse  is  a  greedy  one,  and  inclined  to  eat  his  bed,  he  must 
have  a  muzzle  put  on  about  ten  o'clock.  Then  leave  him 
for  the  night  perfectly    undisturbed. 

To  keep  your  horse  in  regular  working  condition,  the 
times  of  feeding  should  be  as  equally  divided  as  convenience 
will  permit :  and  when  it  is  likely  that  the  horse  will  be 
kept  longer  than  usual  from  home,  the  nose-bag  should 
invariably  be  taken.  The  stomach  of  a  horse  is  small  and 
consequently  emptied  in  a  few  hours,  and  if  suffered  to  re- 
main hungry  much  beyond  his  accustomed  time,  he  will 
'  afterwards  devour  his  food  so  voraciously  as  to  distend  the 
stomach,  and  endanger   an    attack  of  staggers.    , 

As  herbage,  green  and  dry,  constitutes  the  principal  part 
of  the  food  of  the  horse,  it  is  very  seldom  regarded  with 
the  attention  necessary.  The  quantity  of  dry  huryalah  grass 
sufficient  for  an  Arab  of  14  hds.  generally  is  from  12  to 
14  pounds  daily,  but  this  must  depend  of  course  on  his 
sia ;  it  should,  when  cut,  be  well  washed,  then  spread  out 
in  the  sun  to  dry  for  three  or  four  days  before  giving  to 
the  horse.  Where  the  horse  is  fed  on  green  grass,  the 
asual    method  is  to  keep  a   man  to  bring  it  daily,  which  he 


Digitized  by 


Google 


32  INDIAN    DOMKSTIC   ECONOMY 

cuts  and  digs  up  with  a  portion  of  the  roots  ;  this  is  washed 
and  brought  home  every  evening,  and  in  its  wet  state  forms 
n  bundle  as  much  as  he  can  well  carry ;  and  if  given  to 
the  horse  in  such  a  state,  can  never  be  so  wholesome  as  if 
dried  previously;  it  should  always  be  kept  upon  a  stand, 
and  given  to  the  horse  in  small  quantities.  Hay  ought  to 
be  cut  soon  after  the  rains,  when  full  of  its  juices,  and 
before  the  seed  falls ;  it  is  then  in  its  most  nutritive  state. 
The  grass  cut  late  in  .the  season  merely  fills  the  stomach, 
affording  scarcely  any  nourishment ;  hence  the  necessity, 
when  laying  in  a  stock,  to  examine  the  quality  before  pur- 
chase, as  old  hay  is  dry,  tasteless,  innutritive  and  unwhole- 
some. Horses,  like  aU  other  domestic  animals,  are  fond  of 
salt,  and  it  is  a  good  practice  to  sprinkle  the  hay  with 
water  in  which  salt  has  been  dissolved,  or  to  suspend  a 
lump  of  rock  salt  near  the  horse,  where  he  can  at  pleasure 
lick  it;  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  salt  very  materially 
assists  the  process  of  digestion. 

Lucerne,  when  it  can  be  obtained,  is  extremely  advan- 
tageous for  bringing  a  horse  into  condition ;  it  is  easy  of 
digestion  and  speedily  puts  muscle  and  fat  on  the  horse 
that  is  worn  down  by  labour,  and  is  almost  a  specific  for 
hidebound.  A  horse  must  not  have  too  much  given  to 
him  at  once,  as  it  is  apt  to  make  him  refuse  his  other  grass 
or  hay.  Kirby  or  cholum  (the  stalk  of  the  jawaree)  is, 
when  chopped  up,  an  excellent  dry  food  for  feeding  and 
bringing  a  horse  into  condition.  It  should  be  cut  coarse 
and  put  into  a  manger  or  rackstand,  thus  enabling  the 
horse  to  feed  at  leisure ;  and  as  it  takes  time  for  mastication, 
the  stomach  becomes  more  gradually  filled,  and  the  in- 
creased quantity  of  saliva  necessary  for  its  amalgamation^ 
softens   and  makes  it   more  fit  for  digestion. 

Carrots^  being  procurable  in  abundance  for  several  months 
after  the  rains,  may  be  given  either  to  strengthen  the  horse 
or  for  his  recovery,  if  sick.  To  the  healthy  horse  they 
should  be  given  sliced  with  finely  chopped  kirby,  half  a 
dozen  pounds  being  an   ample    allowance.    Stewart    says    of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKIRT.  S3 

them  in  his  Stable  Economy :  "  This  root  is  held  in  mnch 
esteem.  There  is  none  better  nor  perhaps  so  good;  when 
first  given  it  is  shghtly  diuretic  and  laxative^  but  as  the 
horse  becomes  accustomed  to  it  these  effects  cease  to  be 
produced :  they  also  improve  the  state  of  the  skin ;  they 
form  a  good  substitute  for  grass  and  an  excellent  altera- 
tive for  horses  out  of  condition.  To  sick  and  idle  horses 
they  render  corn  unnecessary,  they  are  beneficial  in  all 
chronic  diseases  connected  with  breathing,  they  are  ser- 
viceable in  diseases  of  the  skin,  and  have  a  marked  in- 
fluence upon   chronic  coughs  and  broken   wind/' 

Gram. — The  quantity  of  gram  necessary  for  an  Arab  of 
14  hds.  averages  about  three  seers  or  more  daily ;  the  gram 
should  be  ground  slightly  and  soaked  for  not  more  than 
a  few  minutes.  Of  course  a  horse  of  15  hds.  will  require 
an  extra  seer  or  more^  but  it  entirely  depends  upon  the 
work  he  has  to  do ;  if  he  is  hunted  every  other  day  or 
otherwise  daily  worked,  four  seers  will  not  be  at  all  too 
much.  If  the  gram  is  not  ground,  it  will  require  a  little 
longer   soaking. 

Cooltie  is  given  in  the  same  quantity,  but  requires  pre- 
vious boiling ;  horses  unaccustomed  to  this  grain  and 
its  mode  of  preparation,  refuse  it  at  first,  but  soon  take 
to  it  like  other  food.  N.  B.--A  seer  is  two  English 
pounds  weight. 

Tie  Stable  should  be  as  large  of  course  as  the  number 
of  horses  it  is  destined  to  contain;  and  as  in  India  aU 
stables,  except  for  racing,  are  generally  open,  I  shall 
merely  describe  the  length  and  breadth  necessary  ^for  a 
stable,  which  is  amply  sufficient  if  10  or  12  feet^  in  breadth 
and  fourteen  in  length.  The  open  face  of  the  stable  must 
depend  on  circumstances,  and  if  it  is  thought  necessary 
to  have  any  apertures  for  increased  circulation  in  the  sur- 
rounding walls,  they  should  be  as  far  above  the  horses 
as  they  conveniently  can,  to  prevent  all  injurious  draughts 
of  air  falling  upon  them.  Backs  are  useful  in  a  stable 
to  keep  the  hay  or  grass  dean,     and    prevent    its    being 


Digitized  by 


Google 


34  INDIAN   DOllXSTIC  ECONOMY 

mixed  with  the  litt«r.  In  some  stables  where  the  horse 
is  allowed  to  run'  loose^  enclosed  by  a  high  partition  from 
his  neighbonr^  and  bars  in  front,  a  rack  is  generally  made 
in  one  comer,  with  a  wooden  trough  on  the  other  side 
for  giving  him  his  gram,  cooltie,  or  other  food^  though 
more  commonly  the  nose-bag  is  used;  this  is  either  made 
of  leather  or  strong  coarse  canvas. 

When  horses  are  fastened  ill  a  stable  by  halter  and 
heel  ropes,  consequently  almost  always  standing  in  the 
same  place,  it  is  essentially  necessary  that  a  pit  made 
of  brick  or  stone,  where  the  horse  stands,  should  be  sunk, 
with  a  sloping  gutter  running  underneath  the  groundwork 
of  the  stable,  for  the  urine  to  pass  off;  the  surface  must 
be  covered  over  either  with  a  large  stone  having  holes  in 
it  for  the  purpose,  or  else  boards  at  such  intervals  of 
distance  as  will  admit  of  the  urine  passing  through  into 
the  pit  or  drain.  It  is  well  known  that  the  urine  of  a 
horse  contains  a  large  proportion  of  ammonia,  and  that 
the  vapour  given  out  rises  soon  after  the  horse  has  staled, 
which  is  in  itself  injurious  in  a  close  stable,  as  is  the 
case  in  large  towns  and  the  presidencies ;  this  mixing  also 
with  other  matter  of  an  offensive  nature,  must  affect  the 
health  of  a  horse :  hence  the  necessity  of  its  being  remov- 
ed, and  keeping  the  stable  amply  supplied  with  fresh  air. 

In  a  warm  climate  like  India,  where  the  stable  is  con- 
fined, ventilation  is  essential;  if  this  is  not  attended  to, 
the  air  becomes  empoisoned,  and  the  health  of  the  animal 
must  suffer.  ''In  England  it  is  thought  that  the  majori- 
ty of  the  maladies  of  the  horse,  and  those  of  the  worst 
description,  are  directly  or  indirectly  to  be  attributed  as 
much  to  a  deficient  supply  of  air  as  to  hard  work '  and 
bad  food :  and  to  prevent  any  accumulation  of  foul  air,  it 
is  necessary  that  the  dung  and  urine  of  the  horse  should 
be  immediately  removed,  to  prevent  fermentation  and  its 
evolving  unwholesome  vapour/' 

Light. — Indian  stables,  away  from  the  presidencies,  are, 
from  their  construction,  seldom  deficient  here.    Horses  kept 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  35 

in  dark  stables  in  England  are  frequently  notorious  start- 
ers, and  it  is  probable  that  even  the  horse  fastened  in  the 
stable  with  a  dark  wall  in  front  may  have  his  vision  affected 
by  it;  the  colour  should  never  be  glaring,  neither  should 
it  be  white,  especially  if  the  sun  shines  into  the  stable, 
it  being  as  injurious  to  the  eye  as  sudden  changes  from 
darkness  to  light.  The  colour  therefore  should  depend  upon 
the  quantity  of  light,  and  therefore  the  best  colour  is 
perhaps  a  grey  or  light  brown,  easily  effected  by  the  simple 
native  process  of  gobering.  Hence  dark  stables  are  un- 
firiendly  to  cleanliness,  the  frequent  cause  of  the  vice  of 
starting,  and  of  serious    diseases  of  the  eyes. 

Grooming. — It  is  to  the  stabled  horse,  highly  fed  and 
irregularly  worked,  that  grooming  is  of  so  much  importance. 
Good  rubbing  with  the  brush  or  the  currycomb  opens  the 
pores  of  the  skin,  circulates  the  blood  to  the  extremities 
of  the  body,  produces  free  and  healthy  perspiration,  and 
stands  in  the  room  of  exercise.  No  horse  will  carry  a 
fine  coat  without  either  unnatural  heat  or  dressing;  they 
both  effect  the  same  purpose  by  increasing  the  insensible 
perspiration,  but  the  first  does  it  at  ,the  expense  of  health 
and  strength,  while  the  second,  at  the  same  time  that  it 
produces  a  glow  on  the  skin  and  a  determination  of  blood 
to  it,  rouses  all  the  energies  of  the  frame;  and  a  fine 
coat  should  only  be  produced  by  good  cleanings  and  not 
by  warm  clothing  or  stimulating  spices,  though  a  horse 
just  landed  from  a  ship  wiU  benefit  much  by  leaving  stim- 
ulants mixed  with  his  gram,  such  as  black  pepper  and 
salt,  for  a  time. 

A  horse  must  be  dressed  regularly  every  day,  in  addition 
to  the  grootiing  that  is  necessary  after  work.  If  he  has 
been  driven,  he  should  .  be  walked  gently  about  without 
removing  the  pad  or  harness,  the  traces  being  unbuckled 
and  removed,  or  turned  up  so  as  not  to  trail  on  the  ground. 
If  ridden,  he  should  be  walked-  with  the  saddle  on,  but 
the  girths  loosened  and  the  stirrups  secured  high  up,  to 
prevent  him   from    getting  his    feet    into    either  of    them. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


36  INDIAN  DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 

When  the  horse  is  moderately  cooled,  he  is  to  be  taken 
to  his  stall  and  well  hand- rubbed  and  shampooed  till  dry; 
his  grass  or  other  food  may  then  be  given  him.  The  curry- 
comb should  be  at  all  times  lightly  used;  even  the  brush 
need  not  be  so  hard  or  the  points  of  the  bristles  so  irregular 
as  thy  often  are.  A  hair  cloth  made  like  a  bathing -glove, 
or  of  coir,  is  all  that  is  necessary  with  horses  of  a  thin  skin, 
and  this  latter  is  often  used  by  the  natives.  There  is  no* 
thing  after  all  like  good  hand-rubbing,  and  to  this  the  Indian 
horse  is  accustomed*  The  only  thing  is  to  See  that  the 
horsekeeper  does  his  duty  as  he  ought;  but  if  not  looked 
after,    this  is   not    always  the    case. 

Waier. — ^The  difference  between  hard  and  soft  water  is 
known  to  all  persons ;  and  a  horse,  if  he  has  a  choice,  will 
always  take  running  water  in  preference  to  that  from 
a  well,  though  the  latter  be  clearer :  hard  water  makes  the 
coat  stare,  and  not  unfrequently  gripes  and  otherwise  injures 
him.  An  Arab  horse  seldom  takes  any  injury  from  satiating 
his  thirst  at  pleasure,  that  is,  if  he  has  the  opportunity 
on  a  journey;  a  horse  should  be  liberally  supplied  with 
water;  when  he  is  a  little  cooled,  two  or  three  quarts 
may  be  given  to  him,  and  after  that  his  feed ;  before  he 
has  finished  his  gram  two  or  three  quarts  more  may  be 
offered.  He  will  take  no  harm  if  this  is  repeated  three 
or  four  times  during  a  long  and  hot  day.  An  Arab  horse 
enjoys  bathing  as  much  as  a  human  being,  and  when  yoa 
have  an  opportunity  of  indulging  him  with  a  bath  in  a 
clear  running  stream  at  noon  during  a  hot  day,  it  is 
most  healthy.  The  Indian  horsekeepers  are  much  in  the 
habit  of  washing  a  horse  in  the  morning  ;  this  is  all  very 
well  if  he  is  not  required  for  work  immediattly,  and  can 
be  well  dried  and  groomed  after  ;  but  if  it  is  only  done  to 
save  trouble  of  hand-cleaning,  the  sooner  it  is  put  a  stop 
to  the  better,  and  it  should  seldom  be  allowed  in  the  rains, 
except   in  the  middle  of  the   day. 

Brauj  or  the  ground  husk  of  wheat,  is  usually  given 
to  sick    horses    on    account  of  the    supposed  advantage    of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  37 

rdaxUig  the  bowels,  but  it  must  not  be  constant  or  even 
frequent  food,  as  ,it  produces  indigestion  from  its  accumu- 
lation in  the  large  intestines.  Bran  is  useful  as  an  occasional 
aperient  in  the  form  of  a  mash^  but  never  should  become 
a  regular  article  of  food. 

Odff.-^For  the  assistance  of  persons  whose  horses  may 
meet  with  accidents  usual  in  a  stable,  desirous  to  know  the 
treatment  immediately  necessary,  in  the  easiest  and  common- 
est forms,  and  where'  professional  advice  is  not  directly  at 
hand,  I  have  "selected  from  White*  and  ^  The  Horse,''  a  few 
remarks  and  prescriptions,  and  add^d  to  these  some  of  my 
own,  which  may  serve  our  purpose  in  a  general  work  on 
Domestic  Economy. 

The  first  thing  to  be  done  is  to  remove  care- 
Broken  knees,  fully  all  extraneous  matter,  washing  the  wound 
clean  with  warm  water,  and  taking  care  that 
no  gravel  or  dirt  remains.  If  the  joint  is  .penetrated,  a 
poultice  must  be  first  applied;  this  will  prevent  or  reduce 
inflammation.  If  the  joint  has  been  opened,  the  orifice 
must  be  closed,  and  every  attention  paid  to  prevent  the 
escape  of  the  fluid  which  lubricates  the  joint,  by  the  appli- 
cation of  a  compress  enclosing  the  wound,  and  which  must 
not  be  removed  for  some  days.  If  it  be  a  deep  or  extensive 
wound,  goulard  poultice  is  to  be  applied  twice  or  thrice 
a  day^  taking  care  to  keep  it  constantly  moist,  when  in  two 
or  three  days  a  white  healthy  matter  will  appear,  and  the 
poultice  may  be  discontinued  and  simple  dressing  applied ; 
but  should  the  wound  put  on  an  unhealthy  appearance, 
and  the  matter  become  fetid  and  smelling  offensively,  add 
some  pounded  charcoal  finely  sifted  through  muslin  to  the 
poultice,  and  continue  this  until  a  healthy  action  has  taken 
place ;  but  in  aU  cases  when  the  disease  is  of  a  severe  or 
unusual  character,  the  assistance  of  a  Veterinary  Surgeon 
should  be  immediately  sought,  or  the  best  works  on  the 
subject  consulted. 
Where  there  has  been  only  a  partial  abrasion  of  the  skin. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


38  INDIAN  DOMBSTIC  ECONOMT 

carefolly  washing  the  part  and  applying  a  little  simple  oint- 
menty  with  about  one-eighth  part  mercnriai,  wiH  be  found 
all  that  is  necessary.  To  promote  the  growth  of  the  hair, 
the  part  may  be  rubbed  with  any  simple  ointment  containing 
a  small  portion  of  stimulating  matter  either  in  the  shape 
of  turpentine  or  blistering  fly;  a  solution  of  blue  vitriol 
and  brandy  is  perhaps  the  best  application  to  all  bald  sur* 
faces  where  the  roots  of  the  hair    still  remain. 

In  recent  bruises  fomentations  are  the  most 
JBruUes,  essential  remedies,  and,  if  extensive,  with  inflam- 
mation, it  is  advisable  to  bleed  moderately  near 
the  affected  part,  and  should  any  hard  callous  swelling 
remain  in  consequence,  rub  well  into  the  part,  twice  or 
thrice  a  day,  some  of  the  embrocations  mentioned  for  bruises. 

This  operation  is  performed  either  with  a 
Bleeding,  lancet  or  fleam.  The  latter  is  the  most  common 
instrument,  and  safest  in  an  unskilful  hand.  A 
lancet  with  a  spring  has  long  been  invented  by  Mr,  Weiss 
in  the  Strand,  by  which  a  novice  may  bleed  safely  from 
the  jugular  or  smaller  vein. 

"For  general  bleeding  the  jugular  vein  is  generally  select- 
ed. The  horse  is  blindfolded  on  the  side  to  which  he  is 
to  be  bled,  or  his  head  turned  well  away;  the  hair  is 
smoothed  along  the  course  of  the  vein  with  the  moistened 
finger,  then  with  the  third  and  Httle  fingers  of  the  left 
hand,  which  holds  the '  fleam,  pressure  is  made  in  the 
vein,  sufficient  to  bring  it  fairly  into  view,  but  not 
to  swell  it  too  much,  for  then,  presenting  a  round- 
ed surface,  it  would  be  apt  to  roll  or  slip  under  the 
blow. 

"The  point  to  be  selected  is  about  two  inches  below 
the  union  of  the  two  portions  of  the  jugular  at  the  angle 
of  the  jaw :  the  fleam  is  to  be  placed  in  a  direct  line  with 
the  course  of  the  vein,  *  and  over  its  precise  centre,  as 
close  to  it  as  possible,  but  its  point  not  absolutely  touching 


Digitized  by 


Google 


I 


AND  COOKSKT.  39 

the  rein:  a  sharp  rap  with  the  blood  stick,  or  the  hand, 
on  that  part  of  the  back  of  the  fleam  immediately  over 
the  blade,  will  cat  throngh  the  vein,  and  the  blood  will 
flow.  A  fleam  with  a  large  blade  shoidd always  be  preferred; 
for  the  operation  will  be  materially  shortened,  which  will 
be  a  matter  of  some  consequence  with  a  fidgetty  horse, 
and  a  quantity  of  blood  drawn  speedily  will  have  iai  more 
effect  on  the  system  than  double  the  weight  slowly  taken, 
while  the  wound  wiQ  heal  just  as  readily  as  if  made  by  a 
smaller  instrument.  A  slight  pressure,  if  the  incision  has 
been  krge  enough  and  straight,  and  in  the  middle  of  the 
vein,  will  cause  the  blood  to  flow  sufi&ciently  fast ;  or  the 
finger  being  introduced  into  the  mouth,  between  the  tusks 
and  grinders,  and  gently  moved  about,  will  keep  the  mouth 
in  motion,  and  hasten  the  rapidity  of  the  stream  by  the 
action  and   pressure  of  the  neighbouring  muscles. 

''When  sufficient  blood  has  been  taken,  the  edges  of  the 
wonnd  should  be  brought  closely  together,  and  so  kept  by 
a  sharp  pin  being  passed  through  them ;  round  this  a  piece 
of  twine,  tow,  or  a  few  hairs  from  the  mane  of  the  horse, 
should  be  wrapped  so  as  to  cover  the  who  le  of  the  incision, 
and  the  head  of  the  horse  tied  up  for  several  hours,  to 
prevent  his  rubbing  the  part    against  the   manger. 

''Few  directions  are  necessary  for  the  use  of  the  lancet. 
Those  who  are  competent  to  operate  with  it  will  scarcely 
require  any.  If  the  point  be  sufficiently  sharp,  the  lancet 
can  scarcely  be  too  broad-shouldered,  and  an  abscess  lancet 
will  generally  make  a  freer  incision  than  that  in  com- 
mon nse/' 

PHYSICKING. 

A  horse  should  be  carefully  prepared  for  the  action  of 
physic. 

Two  or  three  bran-mashes,  given  on  that  or  the  pre- 
ceding day,  are  far  from  sufficient.  When  a  horse  is 
about  to  be  physicked,  whether  to  promote  his  condition, 
or  in   obedience    to    custom,    mashes   should  be  given  until 


Digitized  by 


Google 


40  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

the  dung  becomes  softened;  a  less  quantity  of  pbysio  will 
then  suffice,  itnd  it  will  more  quickly  pass  through  the  in- 
testines, and  be  more  equally  diffused  over  them.  Fi?e 
drachms  of  aloes,  given  when  the  dung  has  thus  been  soften- 
ed, will  act  much  more  effectually,  and  much  more  safely, 
than  seven  drachms,  when  the  lower  intestines  are  obstruct- 
ed by  hardened  faeces. 

On  the  day  on  which  the  physic  is  given,  the  horse 
should  have  walking  exercise,  or  may  be  gently  trotted 
foi  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  twice  in  the  day;  but  after  the 
physic  begins  to  work,  he  should  not  be  moved  from  his 
stall.  Exercise  then  would  produce  gripes,  irritation,  and 
possibly  dangerous  inflammation.  The  common  and  absurd 
practice  is  to  give  the  horse  most  exercise  after  the  physic 
has  begun  to  operate. 

A  little  hay  may  be  put  into  the  rack;  as  much  mash 
may  be  given  as  the  horse  will  eat,  and  as  much  water 
with  the  coldness  of  it  taken  off  as  he  will  drink.  If, 
however,  he  obstinately  refuses  to  drink  warm  water,  it  is 
better  that  he  should  have  it  cold,  than  to  continue  with- 
out taking  any  fluid;  but  he  should  not  be  suffered  to 
take  more  than  a  quart  at  a  time,  with  an  interval  of  at 
least  an  hour  between  each  portion.  A  table-spoonful  of 
pounded  black  salt  mixed  with  the  horse's  gram,  and  given 
morning  and  evening  for  a  few  days,  will  act  as  a  mild 
aperient,  and  generally  be  found  sufficient  to  keep  him  in 
good  health  and   condition. 

May  be  used  either  for  the  evacuation  of  the 
Clysters  bowels,  or  for  soothing  or  nourishing  a 
horse.  Where  a  regular  machine  is  not  pro- 
curable, a  large  bladder  with  a  wooden  pipe  may  be  used^ 
or  a  kid  skinned,  without  perforating  it,  is  an  immediate 
substitute  even  for  the  bladder.  The  principal  art  in  ad- 
ministering a  clyster,  consists  in  not  frightening  the  horse. 
The  pipe,  well  oiled,  is  to  be  very  gently  introduced,  and 
the  fluid  not    too  hastily  thrown  up,  and  the  heat  should 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  41 

be  as  nearly  as  possible  that  of  the  intestine^  or  about  96'' 
of  Fahrenheit's  thermometer. 

Two  ounces  of  soft  or  yellow  soap,  dissolved 

Aperient      in  a  gallon  of  warm  water.     For  a  more  active 

CljfsUr.     aperient— Eight    ounces    of  Epsom  salts^  or   even 

of  common  salt^   dissolved  in  the  same   quantity 

of  water.  .  If    nothing    else    can  be  obtained^    warm  water 

may  be  employed.. 

If  an  injection  of  a  soothing  nature  is  required^  it  may 
consist  alone  of  plain  congee  (rice  water)  ;  but  if  a  purg- 
ing be  great  or  difBcult  to  stop^  add  four  ounces  of  pre- 
pared or  powdered  chalk  to  the  congee^  made  thicker  with 
two  scruples,  or  a  drachm,  of  powdered  opium. 

Open  the  pores  of  the  skin,  promote  perspi- 
F(nMnia'  ration  in  the  part,  and  so  abate  the  local  swelling, 
tunu.  relieve  pain,  and  lessen  inflammation.  They 
are  rarely,  if  ever,  continued  long  enough,  and 
when  they  are  removed,  the  part  is  left  wet  and  uncov- 
ered, and  the  coldness  of  evaporation  succeeds  to  the  heat 
of  fomentation.  The  perspiration  is  thus  suddenly  check- 
ed, the  animal  suffers  considerable  pain,  and  more  injury 
is  done  by  the  extreme  change  of  temperature,  than  if 
the  fomentation  had  not  been  attempted. 

Fomentations  may  be  made  by  boiling  Neem  leaves, 
poppy  heads,  marsh  mallow  roots,  to  a  strong  decoction, 
and  then  applied — even  boiling  water  is  useful. 

Are  made  by  pouring    boiling    water  on   bran 

Maties     and    stirring  it  well,    and    then    covering  it   over 

until  it  is   sufficiently    cool  for  the  horse  to  eat. 

They  are    very  useful    preparations  for  physic,  and  they  are 

necessary  during  the  operation. 

A  stale  mash  should  never  be  put  before  a  horse,  as  it 
soon  turns  sour. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


42  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

Is  purely    a    local    disease^    and    arises  from 
Mange         bad  feeding    and  little    attention  being    paid  to 
the    animal;   it  is    contagious^   and    may    there- 
fore attack  horses  in  good  condition. 

A  cure  for  Mange. — ^Fig  leaves  beat  to  a  pulp,  and 
soaked  one  night  in  Tyre  (butter  milk),  will  in  three  ap- 
plications  cure  the  most  inveterate  state  of  this  disease. 

When  the  bars,  or  roof  of  the  horse's  mouth 
Lampas.  near  the  front  teeth,  become  level  with  or  higher 
than  the  teeth,  he  is  said  to  have  the  lampas, 
and  he  feeds  badly  in  consequence.  Same  burn  down 
the  part  with  a  red-hot  iron;  but  the  best  practice  is  to 
make  a  few  incisions  across  the  bars  with  a  penknife^  or 
lancet,  not  too  deep,  and  rub  the  parts  with  a  little  salt; 
this  will  cause  the  swelling  to  subside^  and  relieve  the 
inflammation. 

Are  fomentations  of  the  best  kind,  continued 
Poultices  much  longer  than  a  simple  fomentation  can  be. 
The  moisture  and  warmth  are  the  principal 
use  of  the  poultice;  and  that  poultice  is  the  best  for  general 
purposes  in  which  moisture  and  warmth  are  longest  retain- 
ed. A  poultice,  if  applied  to  the  legs,  should  never  be 
put  -on  too  tight,  so  as  to  prevent  the  free  circulation,  or 
too  hot,  so  as  to  give  pain   and  increase  inflammation. 

The  best  poultices  are  made  from  coarse  wheat  flour 
and  linseed  meal.  Bran  is  objectionable  from  its  becom- 
ing soon    dry. 

Are  inflamed  tumours,  produced  by  the  un- 
Saddle  equal  pressure  of  the  saddle,  and,  if  neglected^ 
Galls  often  become  troublesome  sores,  and  are  a  con- 
siderable time  in  healing.  As  soon  as  a  swell- 
ing of  the  kind  is  observed,  cold  lotions  should  be  appli- 
ed and  kept  constantly  wet,  or  if  matter  is  formed,  it 
must  be  opened  and  let  out,  and  poultices  applied.    Should  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKEEY.  43 

bard  swelling  remain  after  the  inflammation  is  in  a  great 
measure  reduced,  recourse  must  be  had  to  a  blister,  and 
after  dress  with  simple  ointment.  In  the  first  instance  of 
a  gall  being  discovered,  a  strong  solution  of  salt  and  water 
will  be  generally  sufficient. 

The  saddle  must  be  looked  at>  and  the  stuffing  renewed. 

The  attack  of  this   disease  is  always  sudden, 

Gripe9,or     and.  proceeds  from    various  causes.     Sometimes 

Spasmodic      from   drinking  a  large    quantity   of  cold  water, 

CdUc.  when  the  body  has  been  heated  and  the  blood 
accelerated  by  violent  exercise.  In  horses  of  a 
delicate  constitution,  that  have  been  accustomed  to  warm 
clothing  and  a  hot  stable,  it  may  be  brought  on  by  drink- 
ing very  cold  water,  though  they  have  not  been  previous- 
ly exercised.  Bad  hay  is  another  cause  of  the  complaint; 
but  it  frequently  occurs  without  any  apparent  cause.  Colic 
sometimes  follows  the  exposure  of  a  horse  to  the  cold  air, 
or  a   cold  wind  after  violent  exercise. 

The  symptoms  are,  first,  the  horse  begins  to  shift  his 
posture,  look  round  at  his  flanks,  paw  violently,  strike  his 
belly  with  his  feet;  voids  small  quantities  of  excrement, 
and  makes  frequent  and  fruitless  attempts  to^  stale ;  lies 
down,  rolls,  and  that  frequently  on  his  back.  In  a  few 
minutes  the  pain  seems  to  cease,  the  horse  shakes  himself 
and  begins  to  feed,  but  on  a  sudden  the  spasm  returns 
more  violently,  every  indication  of  pain  is  increased,  he 
heaves  at  the  flanks,  breaks  out  into  profuse  perspiration, 
and  throws  himself  more  violently  about.  In  the  space  of 
an  hour  or  two,  either  the  spasms  begin  to  relax,  and  the 
remissions  are  of  a  longer  duration,  or  the  torture  is  aug- 
mented at  every  paroxysm,  the  intervals  of  ease  are  fewer 
and  less  marked,  and  inflammation  and  death  supervene. 
A  powerful  remedy  is  three  ounces  of  Oil  or  Spirit  of  Tur- 
pentine with  an  ounce  of  Laudanum,  mixed  with  ghee  or 
oil.  If  relief  be  not  obtained  in  half  an  hour,  the  horse 
ahould  be  bled    freely,   as  far  as  three  quarts,   as   it  may 


Digitized  by 


Google 


44  INDIAN  DOMXsnC  ECONOMY 

relieve  or  mitigate  inflammation^  and  a  clyster  given,  com- 
posed of  congee  (rice  water)  with  a  handful  of  common 
salt.  If  it  be  a  clear  case  of  colic,  half  of  the  first  dose  maj 
be  repeated  with  an  ounce  of  Barbadoes  aloes  dissolved  in 
a  little  warm  water.  The  belly  should  be  well  rubbed  by 
two  persons,  one  on  each  side,  and  the  horse  afterwards  walked 
about  or  trotted  moderately. 

When  reb'ef  has  been  obtained,  the  horse  must  be  rub^ 
bed  dry,  plenty  of  litter  given  him  to  rest  upon,  and  have 
bran   mashes  for  the    next  two   or  three  days. 

As  the  treatment  for  colic  would  be  fatal  in  inflamma- 
tion of  the  bowels,  the  distinguishing  symptoms  are  here 
given : — 

Colic.  Inflammation  of  the  JBotceli, 

Sudden  in  its  attack.  Gradual   in  its  'approach,   with 

Fulse  rarely  much   quickened  in  previous  indications  of  fever, 

the  early  stage  of  the  disease,  and  Fulse    very     much     quickened, 

during  the  intervals  of  ease,  but  small,  and  scarcely  to  be  felt, 

evidently  fuller.    Legs  and  ears  of  Legs  and  ears  oold. 

the    natural    temperature.     Eelief  Belly    exceedingly    tender,   and 

obtaiued  from  rubbing  the  belly.  painful  to  tbe  touch. 

Relief  obtained  from  motion.  Motion  increasing  the  pain. 

Intervals  of  rest.  Constant  pain. 

Strength  scarcely  affected.  Kapid  and  great  weakness. 

The  causes  of  inflammation  are,  most  frequently,  sudden 
exposure  to  cold,  over-feeding,  having  been  some  hours 
without  food,  and  then  allowed  to  drink  freely  of  cold 
water; — ^stones  in  the  intestines  are  an  occasional  cause, 
and  colic,  neglected  or  wrongly  treated,  will  terminate  in  it. 

The  treatment  must  be  early  and  copious  bleeding,  ap- 
plication of  blisters  to  the  abdomen,  or  else  mustard  em- 
brocation assiduously  rubbed  upon  it,  and  if  the  horse  is 
costive,  a  pint  of  castor  oil  mixed  in  congee  must  be  ad« 
ministered  by  a  clyster,  and  his  legs  well  rubbed  by  the 
hand,  and  plenty  of  litter  for  the  animal  to  lie  down.  If^ 
after  these  remedies  have  been  applied^  the  disease  appear 
to   continue  in  violence,  the  pulse  become   quick,  weak,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY  45 

flattering^  so  as  scarcely  to  be  felt,  or  if  there  appear  a 
remission  or  cessation  of  pain,  or  the  horse  become  delirious, 
these  are  always  fatal  symptoms,  denoting  that  mortification 
is  taking  place;  but  should  the  pain  continue  after  the 
above  remedies  have  been  fairly  tried,  an  anodyne  clyster 
may  be  injected. 

Are  bony  excrescences   about  the  shank  bone. 
Splints  i.   e.f   between  the  knee  and  fetlock  joint.    They 

never  occasion  lameness,  unless  situated  so  near 
the  knee,  or  back  sinews,  as  to  interfere  with  their  motion, 
and  are  invariably  found  on  the  outside  of  the  small  bone, 
and  generally  on   the   inside    of  the  leg. 

The  treatment  is  simple; — shave  the  hair  closely  off 
lound  the  tumour,  rub  in  a  little  strong  mercurial  oint- 
ment for  two  or  three  days,  and  follow  it  up  with  an  active 
blister; — sometimes  a  second   may   be  necessary. 

Consists  in  a  discharge  of  fetid  matter  from 
T%rusi  the  cleft  of  the  frog.  When  the  frog  is  in  a 
sound  state,  the  cleft  sinks  but  a  little  way  into 
it,  but  when  it  becomes  contracted,  the  cleft  extends  in 
length,  and  penetrates  to  the  sensible  horn  within ;  from  this 
fissure  the  thrushy  discharge  proceeds.  When  the  complaint 
attacks    the  fore  feet,    it    is    seldom   an    original  disease. 

The  treatment  consists  in  first  removing  every  part  of 
the  loose  horn,  and  keeping  the  frog  moist,  and  introdu- 
cing as  deeply  as  possible  a  pledget  of  tow  or  lint  covered 
vith  an  ointment,  composed  of  one  ouuce  of  blue  and 
white  vitriol  rubbed  down  with  two  pounds  of  simple  oint- 
ment or  lard,  to  which  is  added  one  of  tar;  at  the  same 
time  giving  the  horse  a  gentle  laxative,  and  nothing  is 
better  than  a  table-spoonful  of  pounded  black  salt,  morn- 
ing and  evening,  mixed  with  his  gram.  When  the  disease 
exists  in  the  hind  feet,  the  same  attention  is  necessary, 
keeping  the  bowels  moderately  open,  and  applying  the  as- 
tringent ointment.  This  treatment  will  be  assisted  by  gentle 
exercise,  and  frequent  hand-rubbing  to  the  legs. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


46  *  INDIAN    DOMESTIC  EOONOMY 

There  are  three  kinds    found    in  the  horse; 

Worms,        the  most    mischievous    reside    in    the  stomach, 

and  are  named  bots,  they  attach  themselves  to  the 

stomach  at  the  sensible  part^  and  do  great  injury,  occasioning 

emaciation,  a  rough  staring  coat,  hide-bound,  and  a  cough. 

2nd.  A  long  white  worm,  much  resembling  the  common 
earth-worm,  six  to  ten  inches  long,  which  inhabits  the  small 
intestines;  a  dose  of  physic  will  sometimes  remove  incredi- 
ble  quantities. 

3rd.  A  smaller  dark-coloured  worm,  called  the  needle 
worm,  inhabits  the  large  intestines;  they  cause  great  irri- 
tation about  the  fundament,  and  are  very  troublesome  to 
the  horse.  Their  existence  may  generally  be  discovered  by 
a  white  powder  found  about  the  anus.  They  may  be  re- 
moved by  an  injection  of  linseed  oil,  or  an  ounce  of  aloes 
dissolved  in  warm  water. 

Cure  for  long  White  Worme^ 

White  Arsenic,      -        -        -  -    5  to    8  grains. 
Cantharides  finely  powdered,       •        6  to  10  grama. 

Sulphate  of  Iron  finely  powdered,  -    1  to    2  drachms. 
Ginger  powder,           -        -        -        ]  drachm. 

Tartarized  Antimony,      -        -  -    1     do. 

To  be  given  with  his  gram  for  a  fortnight ;  mix  with  the  powder  a 
little  Boosa. 

Purgative  Balls. 
No.  1.  No.  2. 

Barbadoes  Aloes,        5  dr.  Barbadoes  Aloes,        7  dr. 

Prepared  Natron,        2  dr.  Castile  Soap,  \  oz. 

Aromatic  Powder,      1  dr.  Powdered  Ginger,      1  dr. 

Oil  of  Caraways,       10  drops.  Oil  oif  Caraways,       10  drops. 

Syrup  enough  to  form  a  hall  for  one  dose. 

No.  3. 

Barbadoes  Aloes, 1  oz. 

Prepared  Natron,        -        .        -        .  2  dr. 

Aromatic  Powder,   -       -       .        -        -     1  dr. 
Oil  of  Anise  Seeds,      ....        lo  drops. 
Syrup  enough  to  form  a  hall  for  one  dose. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY. 


47 


Tonic  Balls. 
Yellow  Peruvian  Bark,      6  dr.  Powdered  Opium,  - 

Gascarilla,       -       -      -   1  dr.  Prepared  Kali,    -      - 

Syrup  enough  to  form  a  ball  for  a  dose. 


idr. 

1  03. 


No.  1. 
Cummin  Seeds,  Anise 
Seeds,  and  Caraway 
Seeds,  of  each. 
Ginger,    -        -        - 
Treade  enough  to  make 
it  of  a  proper  consis- 
tence   for  balls.     The 
dose  about      -    - 

No.     3. 

Cummin  Seeds,  Corian- 
der Seeds»  and  Cara- 
way Seeds,  of  each. 

Grams  of  Paradise,  - 

Cassia^        ... 

Cardamom  Seeds  and 
Saffron,  of  each,- 

liquorice  dissolved  in 
White  Wine,    -      - 

Syrup  of  Saffron  enough 
to  form  a  mass.  The 
dose  about    - 


Cardial  Balls. 

No.  2. 
Anise  Seeds,  Caraway 
Seeds,  Sweet  Fennel 
4  oz.  Seeds,  and  Liquorice 

2  oz.  Powder,  of  each,    - 

Giuger  and  Cassia,  of 
each,        -        -     - 
Honey  enough  to  form 
2  oz.  them  into  a  mass. 

The  dose  about 
No  4. 
Powdered  Ginger, 
Powdered  Caraway  Seeds, 
4  oz.  Oil  of  Caraways,  and 

1  oz.  Oil  of  Anise  Seeds,  of 
i  oz.                   each. 

Liquorice  Powder,  - 

2  dr.  Treacle  enough  to  form 
a  mass. 


4  oz. 


Hoz. 


2  oz. 


4  oz. 


2  dr. 
8  oz. 


4  oz. 


2  oz. 


No. 
OamphoT, 
Oil  of  Turpentine, 
8oap  Liniment, 

Mix. 


Embrocation  for  Bruises. 


L.  No.    2. 

-  \  oz.        Tincture  of  Cantharides,  1  oz. 
1  oz.        Oil  of  Origanum,             -  2  dr. 

-  \\  oz.        Camphorated  Spirit,  6  dr . 

Mix. 

Mustard  Ewirocation. 


No.  3. 
Moriate  of  Ammonia,  - 
Distilled  Vinegar,     - 
Spirit  of  Wine,     - 
Biix. 


No.  4. 

1  oz.         Camphor,        -        -        -  1  oz. 

8  oz.         Spirit  or  Oil  of  Turpentine,  2  oz. 
6  oz.         Water  of  Ammonia;     -        -    2  oz. 

Flour  of  Mustard,   •        -  8  oz. 
To  be  made  into  a  thin  paste,  with  water,  and  rubbed  for  a  con- 
siderable time  on  the  part. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


48  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMT^AND   COOMRY. 

BlUtering  Ointment. 
No.  1.  No.  2. 

Spanish  Mies  powdered,   \  oz.        Oil  of  Turpentine,         -        -    1  ox. 
Oil  of  Turpentine,        -       1  oz.        To  which  add  gradually 
Ointment    of  Wax    or  Vitriolic  Acid,    -       -        -    2  dr. 

Hog's  Lard,      -        -    4  oz.       Hog's  Lard,      -       -       .       4  oz. 
Mix.  Spanish  Flies  powdered,         -    1  oz. 

No.  3. 

Common  Tar,  -       • 5oz. 

Vitriolic  Acid, 2  dr. 

Oil  of  Origanum,      -        -        -       •        -        -^oz. 
Hog's  Lard,         -       -        -       •        -       -        2  oz. 

Spanish  Flies,  powdered, H  or  2  oz. 

Add  the  Vitriolic  Acid  gradually  to  the  Tar,  and  then  the  rest  of 
the  ingredients. 

Alterative  BaU. 
Socotrine  Aloes,      -        .        -       -        -        -    1    oz. 

Castile  Soap, IJ  oz. 

Powdered  Ginger  and  Myrrh,  of  each,        -        -    J  oz. 
Syrup  enough  to  form  a  mass,  to  be  divided  into  six  balls. 

Lotiane. 

The  strength  of  these  often  requires  to  be  altered.  Where  the 
inflammation  and  irritability  of  the  part  are  considerable,  they  must 
be  diluted  with  an  equal  quantity  of  water ;  but  if  the  inflammation  be 
subdued,  and  a  swelling  and  ulceration  remain,  the  alum  solution 
cannot  be  made  too  strong. 

Astringent  Lotion. 
No.  1.  No.  2. 

Alum  powdered,     -        -    1  oz.  Alum  powdered,    -        •    4  ou. 

Vitriolic  Acid,    -        -        1  dr.  Vitriolated  Copper,    -        \  oz. 

Water,  -       .       -       .    1  Pint.  Water,  -       -       -  li  Pint. 

No.  3. 

Sugar  of  Lead, 4  oz. 

Vinegar, 6oz. 

Water, 1  oz. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTEE  IV- 


»>•»  ECONMT. 


DAIET  UTENSILS,  Etc. 

These,  for    holding  the    milk  or  setting  the 
Pom.  cr^am,    should    be  of  tin,  or  glazed  ware:  the 

objection  to  the  latter,  if  common,  consists  in 
the  surface  being  easily  chipped,  and  from  its  porousness 
the  vessel  acquires  a  greasy  scent,  which  no  washing  will 
remove,  as  the  milk  from  time  to  time  soaks  into  the  sub- 
stance of  the  pan,  and  then,  becoming  stale,  gives  a  very 
disagreeable  taint  to  the  milk  or  cream.  The  very  best 
dishes  for  setting  milk  in,  are  the  real  common  China,  pro- 
curable in  the  bazars  at  the  presidencies  and  large  towns, 
or   else  tin  pans. 

Brass  vessels  may  be  used,  but  they  must  be  kept  perfectly 
sweet  and  clean,  the  pans  well  scalded  and  washed  previous 
to  their  being  used,  as  also  every  other  utensil,  lotah,  chum, 
cloths  or  sieve,  spoons,  &c.  In  fact,  cleanliness  is  necessary 
with  aU  articles  destined  for  the  use  of  the  dairy;  and 
without,  it   is  impossible  to   succeed. 

Milk  should  be  kept  where  there  is  a  free  circulation  of 
air,  and  covered  with  gauze  or  wire  screens,  to  keep  off 
fliesj  &c.  Previous  to  setting  milk  for  cream,  dip  the  pan 
in  cold  water,  and  if  required  for  table-use,  take  care  to 
skim  it  before  the  milk  gets  in  the  least  sour,  which,  in 
warm  weather,  soon  takes  place. 

When  the  butter  is  taken  from  the  chum,  the  smaller 
the    quantity    of  water    used    in    preparing    it,  the  better. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


50  INDIAN   DOMBSnC   ECONOMY 

The  batter  should  be  placed  on  a  board  or  dish  in  a 
sloping  position^  so  that  the  butter-milk  may  run  off,  and 
then  by  means  of  a  flat  stick  the  mass  must  be  pressed, 
rolled,  and  beaten;  then  sprinkle  over  it  a  little  salt,  .and 
renew  the  process  of  pressing  until  no  more  butter-milk 
appears,  and  the  butter  shall  have  become  firm,  when  form 
it  into  shape  for  use.  The  chief  essential  in  preserving 
butter,  is  to  remove  all  the  milk,  and  this  can  only  be 
done  by  working  it  well;  water  remaining  in  the  butter 
is  as  bad,  as  it  soon  undergoes  decomposition :  hence  butter 
to  be  preserved  sweet  should  never  be  kept  in  water,  but 
in  a  vessel  that  is  porous,  with  a  damp  cloth  round  it, 
and   in  a   free  circulation   of  air. 

Those  who  desire  to  possess  the  luxuries  of*  a  dairy,  such 
as  butter,  cream,  and  milk,  in  perfection,  should  keep  their 
own  milch  cattle,  or  else,  if  the  milk  is  purchased,  have 
the  animals  brought  to  their  doors,  and  there  milked;  even 
then  if  the  people  are  not  looked  after,  they  will  bring 
water  in  the  lotahs,  and  adulterate  the  milk;  however, 
care  'will  prevent  this  fraud.  The  next  precaution  if  you 
buy  your  milk  is  to  see  that  you  get  the  milk  you  actu- 
ally order,  or  pay  for;  the  buffalo-milk  being  so  much 
cheaper,  they  often  mix  it  with  the  cow^s  and  sell  it  as 
such.  If  you  keep  your  own  cattle,  you  possess  the  ad- 
vantage of  being  able  to  turn  the  produce  of  your  dairy 
to  account.  The  various  modes  of  using  the  milk  will 
suggest  themselves  after  the  butter  is  made  and  the  fa- 
mily wants  supplied,  the  remainder  being  converted  to 
economical  purposes,  as  the  milk  or  whey  may  be  mixed 
with  grain  or  bran  for  feeding  poultry,  pigs,  &c.  Skim- 
milk  in  this  country  is  of  no  other  lise,  as  it  soon  turns 
sour  from  the  heat. 

Pill  your  pan  two-thirds  full  of  new  milk, 

SealdedCream.    and    place  it    at  a  proper    distance  over   a 

dear    charcoal  fire,  and  with  a  gentle  heat; 

let  it  warm    gradually    for    about    SO  minutes^    when  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  ^  51 

Maiding  will  be  complete;  if  allowed  to  go  beyond  a 
certain  point  the  cream  will  not  rise  properly^  and  it  is 
spoilt.  Remove  the  pan  steadily^  and  set  it  to  stand  dnr« 
ing  the  night,  the  following  morning  the  cream  may  be 
taken  off.  It  may  be  scalded  by  setting  the  milk  in  tin 
pans  over  boiling  water;  the  precise  moment  for  remov- 
ing the  milk  can  only  be    ascertained  by  practice. 

The     milk    must    be    set    for    about    twelve 

Devmshire    hours;   the  vessel   containing  it  is  then  placed 

Clotted     over  a  very  slow  fire  or    stove,  without  shak- 

Cream.     ing,   or  disturbing  it  as  little   as  possible;  the 

cream    then    rises    gradually    to    the    top,   and 

forms  a  thick  mass   when  it   is   cool;    the  cream  is  to  be 

removed   and  set  aside  for    butter  or  other  purposes. 

Boil  two  seers  of  morning's  milk  slowly 
leUow  until  it  is    reduced    about    one-fourth,    stir  it 

Butter,  constantly  while  boiling  and  cooling,  until  it  is 
cold,  in  the  warm  weather,  but  if  in  the  cold 
season,  leave  it  lukewarm;  cover  the  milk  with  a  cloth  tied 
o?er  the  vessel,  until  the  afternoon,  when  treat  the  even- 
ing milk  in  the  same  manner,  and  nux  them  both  togeth- 
er, adding  about  two  table-spoonfuls  of  the  morning's 
batter-milk,    kept  for   the  purpose. 

In  the  morning  chum  it,  adding  every  now  and  then 
a  Httle  cold  water  while  churning.  This  quantity  of  milk 
ought  to   yield  one    chittack   of  butter   to  the  seer. 

Obs. — In  warm  weather,  the  milk  after  boiling  may  be 
left  to  set  by  itself  with  a  cloth  tied  over  it;  but  in  the 
cold  weather,  you  must  set  the  vessel  containing  the  milk 
upon  hoi  embers,  so  as  to  keep  it  a  little  warm  all 
night;  of  course,  if  you  purchase  your  milk,  the  best  plan 
is  to  set  the  whole  quantity  at  once  in  the  morning: 
more  butter-milk  is  required  to  be  added  in  the  cold  sea- 
son than  in  the  hot. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


52  INDIAN  BOVEITIC  ECONOMY 

This  for  families  is  made  either  from  pure 
Butter.  cream^  or  the  cream  and  milk  together^  with 
which  a  small  quantity  of  the  previous  day's 
butter-milk  has  been  mixed  at  the  time  of  setting,  a  table- 
spoonful  to  each  seer  of  milk  is  sufficient.  The  natives 
do  it  otherwise,  by  first  smoking  the  inside  of  the  chatty 
in  which  the  milk  is  kept;  it  is  said  that  more  butter  is 
procured  by  this  means^  but  it  always  retains  the  smoky 
flavour,  and  is  the  cause  of  the  milk  having  the  same, 
when  brought  to  persons  on  a  joomey  or  march,  if  notioe 
of  its  being  required  has  not   been    previously  given. 

The  best  method  of  preserving  butter  is  to 
Buttery  to  have  every  particle  of  water  worked  out  of  it 
preserve,  with  a  wooden  spatula,  and  then  mixed  with 
it  a  few  black  pepper  corns  that  have  been 
washed  and  dried;  put  the  butter  into  a  jar,  and  lay 
over  the  top  a  small  quantity  of  moist  sugar  placed  in 
a  bag  or  between  two  folds  of  linen.  By  this  means 
butter  may  be  preserved   in  travelling  many'  days. 

Way  is  to  clean  your  butter  well;  mix  with 

Another       a  very  little  salt;  put   it  into  a  porous  vessel, 

and  keep   cool  with  wet  doth  round  it,  or  else 

in   a  cooling    machine.     (See  Coolers.)     Butter    gets  rancid 

sooner   by  being  kept  in    water,  than   when   dry. 

Ohe. — Butter  if  melted  at  the  very  lowest  temperature 
and  set  to  cool,  so  that  the  water  separates  entirely  from 
it,  will  keep   for   months. 

The  milk  is  first  strained  into  flat  pans  or 
From  Cream  dishes,  which  should  never  be  deeper  than 
two  or  three  inches.  Tin  pans  are  preferable, 
as  they  are  easily  kept  sweet  and  clean,  besides  not  being 
so  readily  broken.  The  round  or  oval  shape  admits  of 
being  skimmed  with  ease,  if  a  small  quantity  of  cream  is 
only  used,  such  as  is  given  from  two  or  three  seers  of  milk; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKEEY.  53 

a  large  fruit  bottle  answers  all  the  purposes  of  a  chum. 
Of  cotirse,  if  a  large  quantity,  then  a  churn  must  be  used  : 
it  seldom  is  necessary  to  add  any  thing  to  the  cream  to 
give   it   acidity. 

The  bottle  is  beat  upon  a  roll  of  cloth  made  with  coarse 
canyas  until  the  butter  is  formed  into  flakes,  the  butter- 
milk withdrawn^  and  a  little  cool  water  substituted;  this 
is  again  shaken  in  the  bottle  till  the  butter  is  in  a  mass, 
changing  the  water  two  or  three  times;  when  the  butter 
is  taken  out^  put  into  a  basin,  and  work  it  with  a  fiat 
piece  of  bamboo  or  stick  similar  to  a  paper  cutter;  after' 
it  has  become  as  firm  as  the  weather  will  permit^  it  is 
transferred  to  the  butter  pot  or  plate,  and  formed  into  any 
fanciful  shape  of  a  flower  or  cone,  and  put  on  the  breakfast- 
table.  If  the  butter  is  intended  to  be  kept,  a  little  salt 
may  be   added. 

04f. — Cream  that  is  moderately  sour  makes  sweet  butter, 
and  it  is  generally  so  after  standing  twenty- four  hours. 
The  cream  may  be    either    from    cow's  or    buffalo's  milk. 

The  general  custom  in  this  case  is  to 
From  Milk  and  simmer  the  milk  over  a  chafing  dish  or 
Cream.  brazier  with  clear  coals,  but  of  course  your 
kitchen  fire  will  answer,  only  remember  the 
milk  must  never  boil,  or  be.  removed  out  of  the  pan  it  is 
warmed  in.  A  small  quantity  6f  the  previous  day's  butter- 
milk saved  on  purpose  is  then  thrown  into  it;  the  following 
morning  the  whole  is  put  into  the  churn,  and  the  butter 
is  made  in  the  usual  manner.  If  the  butter  is  made  from 
buffalo -milk,  a  little  colouring  is  given  by  soaking  the  seed 
of  the  sappun,  Bixa  Orellana,  or  a  little  saffron — though  the 
latter  is   too   dear  for    general  use. 

Take  any  quantity  of  buffalo  or  cow's 

jkotierjromelot-    milk,    let  it    stand    for    three    or    four 

ied  Cream  in  a    hours,    then    simmer    it    gently    over  a 

few  minutes.  charcoal    fixe,    taking    it    off    before  it 


Digitized  by 


Google 


64  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

is  at  the  boiling  pointy  and  not  on  any  account  shake 
or  disturb  it  in  removing  the  pan  to  the  shelf  it  is  to 
stand  upon.  The  cream  that  will  rise  is  a  very  good 
imitation  of  clotted  cream,  and  will  be  fit  for  use, 
if  for  eating,  in  twelve  hours,  but  if  required  for  but- 
ter may  stand  for  twenty-four.  Skim  it  carefully,  put 
it  into  a  bottle  with  a  wide  mouth,  and  shake  it 
well,  the  butter  will  come  in  a  few  minutes.  When 
travelling,  if  the  cream  is  thus  put  in  a  bottle  and  care- 
fully suspended  on  a  camel  or  other  cattle,  the  butter 
will  be  ready  on  your  reaching  the  end  of  the  stage — 
this  I  believe  to  be  a  common  custom  with  officers  march- 
ing in  India. 

Is  prepared   by  boiling  butter  over    a  dear 
Ghee  fire    until  every    particle    of  water  is    evaporat- 

ed, it  will  then  keep  good  for  years.  If  ghee 
has  a  rancid  flavour  or  is  tainted,  which  is  often  the  ease 
when  procured  from  the  bazaar,  it  may  be  rendered  sweetj 
by  boiling  it  with  a  handful  of  Moringa  leaves  ;  this  is  the 
tree  the  root  of  which  furnishes  a  substitute  for  horse 
'  radish. 


Cheese 


Is  only  made  in  this  country  as  cream-cheese, 
or  fresh  curd. 


Take  any  quantity  of  good  cream,  hang  it  in 
Cream  a  coarse  cloth  (that  has  been  dipped  in  scald- 
Cheeee.  ing  water  and  wrung  out)  for  about  twelve  hours, 
then  line  with  cloth  a  small  fine  bamboo  basket 
made  on  purpose,  or  a  tin  mould — the  shape  rpund  or  ob- 
long, with  about  an  inch  and  a  half  rim,  and  the  bottom 
perforated  with  holes;  place  the  cheese  in  it,  and  turn 
the  ends  of  the  cloth  over  it.  Put  on  a  light  weight, 
and  turn  the  cheese  carefully  once  in  twelve  hours,  sprink- 
ling a  little  fine  salt  over  it;  in  four  or  five  days  it  may 
be  used. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKBRY.  55 

Take  six  seen  of  new  milk^  put  it  in  a 
Rt9k  saucepan    over    a    slow    fire»    then  mix  in    by 

CAeeie.  degrees  a  coffee  cup-M  of  white  salt,  stir- 
ring the  milk  the  whole  time^  until  it  is  near- 
ly boiling;  take  it  off>  poar  it  into  a  dish,  and  let  it 
stand  until  cool,  add  half  a  tea-cup  of  sour  butter- 
milk and  squeeze  a  little  lime  juice  into  it  and  let  it 
remain  twenty-four  hours,  then  remove  the  curd  from  the 
whey,  put  it  into  a  towel  or  cloth,  ini  hang  it  to  ^drain ; 
when  the  whey  has  run  off,  give  the  curds  a  shake  in 
the  doth  so  as  to  bring  all  into  a  mass,  put  it,  with  the 
doth  it  is  in,  into  a  bamboo  basket  or  frame,  and  place 
a  weight  of  about  six  pounds  upon  it,  with  a  thin  board 
between,  the  following  day  the  cheese  may  be  turned  and 
salt  sprinkled  over  it.  In  three  or  four  days  it  is  fit 
for  eating,  though  it  is  better  for  being  kept  longer. 

To  the  same  quantity  of  mUk  add  a  pint  of 
Jnoiier*  cream,  turn  it  with  rennet  or  by  any  other 
means,  let  it  stand  for  twenty-four  hours  before 
removing  the  curd,  put  the  whole  into  a  towel  tied  mo- 
derately tight  to  strain,  shaking  the  sides  of  the  cloth 
to  bring  the  cheese  together;  when  the  whey  is  aU  out 
torn  the  cheese  into  your  frame  lined  with  cloth,  and 
treat  it  as  last  directed;  this  from  the  addition  of  cream 
will  be  richer  than  the  last. 

06s. — ^If  from  any  unknown  cause  you  find  the  curd  has 
fermented  or  has  a  honey-comb  appearance,  your  cheese 
will  not  be  so  firm  or  good. 

Take  the  stomach  of  a  calf  four  or  five 
Bennei,  <f  weeks  old,  remove  the  curd,  wash  the  bag 
takes,  and  replace  the  curd    with    a    handful  of  salt 

pg  or  kid.      and  the  juice  of  four  or  more  limes,  tie  it  up 
so  that  none  of  the  juice  escapes,   then  cover 
it  well  with  salt,  and  lay  it  in  a  deep  dish,   and,  let  it  dry, 
or  eke  stretch  it  out  on  sticks  for  the  same  purpose.    When 


Digitized  by 


Google 


66  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMT 

required  for  use^  cat  a  bit  with  some  of  the  curd  and 
soak  it  in  salt  and  water.  The  stomach  of  a  young  sack- 
ing pig,  kid  or  lamb  answers  as  welL  Wash  it  dean  in 
a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  water^  and  return  the  maw  as 
with  the  calfs  stomachy  treating  it  exactly  in  the  same 
manner  with  plenty  of  salt.  The  usual  application  is  as 
follows.  The  night  before  cheesemaking,  one  or  two  inches 
of  the'  maw  should  be  cut  oS,  and  steeped  in  a  few  table 
spoonfuls  of  warm  water;  on  the  following  morning  the 
liquor  is  strained  off  and  poured  into  the  milk;  one  inch 
is  generally  held  sufBcient  to  curdle  the  milk  of  five 
English  cows.  Some  put  sweet-briar^  cloves^  and  variona 
aromatics  into  the  rennet,  for  the  purpose  of  imparting  a 
fine  flavour  to  the  cheese. 

Take    the    inside  skins    of  fowls'  gizzards^ 
Italian  warm  a  little    milk    and    steep    the    gizzards, 

rennet        strain  and   add  it  to  the  milk    to   be  turned 
into    curds — the  gizzards    after   being   used,    if 
washed    and    dried,    will   answer   several   times,   but    it     is 
hardly    necessary  to  take  this    trouble    where    fowls  are    so 
common,  and  easily  procured. 

The  dried  leaves  of  the  flower  of  the  thistle 
Vegetable  and  artichoke  coagulate  milk,  and,  form  the  onlj 
rennet.  rennet  principally  used  in  the  south  of  France. 
The  blue  flower  of  the  artichoke,  if  taken  if esh 
or  dried,  turns  milk  into  excellent  curd  for  cheese  or 
other  purposes.  A  tolah  weight  of  the  fresh  flowers  soaked 
in  two  table-spoonfcds  of  hot  water,  and  strained,  is  suf- 
ficient to  turn  a  pint  of  milk ;  two-thirds  of  a  tolah  weighty 
or  two  English  drachms  of  the  dried  flowers  soaked  in  a 
little  hot  water,  and  a  tea  spoonful  of  salt,  turned  two 
quarts  of  fresh  buffalo  milk  into  a  rich  curd. 

Devonshire       Turn  some  new  milk,  as  for   curds,  in  a  wide 
junket.       shallow  dish;    when   firm,    pour  over   the  top 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AMD  COOKSRT*  57 

dotted   cream    mixed   with   pounded   sugar^  a  little  brandy^ 
and  some  grated  nutmeg. 

Turn    some   new    milk   with  a  little  rennet; 

Anoiier        sweeten  some  clotted  cream,  add   pounded    nut- 

jn/nkeU        meg   or   cinnamon^    make   it  warm,   and  when 

cold,    pour  it   over   the   curd;  and   put  a  little 

wine   or  sugar  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish. 

Made  bj   adding  a  little   butter-milk  to  warm 
Tj/re.  fresh  milk   and    letting   it  stand  all  night;  the 

whole   may   be   churned   for   butter,   or    the   top 
onlj^  as  it  is  the  richest  and  best. 

This   is    made    from    the    first    drawn    milk 

Beastin^f.    after    the    cow     has    calved — ^it    is    to    be    well 

sweetened   with   treacle,    then    put    into  a   deep 

pie-dish    and   baked,  a  common   preparation   both  in  Devoa- 

shire  and  Somerset. 


Digitized  by 


yGoogle 


CHAPTER  V. 


SOUPS. 

G£N£BAL  DiEECnONS. 

The  great  essential  in  making  good  And  economical  soop^ 
is  cleanliness.  The  utensils  must  not  only  be  perfectly 
sweet  and  clean,  but  the  meat  and  oth^  kigredient^  well 
washed  to  insure  success. 

In  this  country,  stock  must  be  made  as  it  is  wanted, 
for  even  in  the  cold  season  it  will  seldom  keep  sweet  till 
the  following  day,  especially  where  yegetables  are  UBed  in 
its  preparation.  It  is  therefore  necessary,  as  fresh  meat 
must  generally  in  all  cases  be  used,  that  the  skimming  be 
particularly  attended  to,  and  a  sufficient  time  allowed  for 
the  juices  to  be'  extracted  by  slow  and  careful  boiling  as 
well  also  as  for  its  cooling,  that  the  fatty  particles  may 
be  removed  from  the  surface,  and  admit  of  the  sediments, 
if  any  fall  to  the  bottom  of  the  liquid,  being  drawn  off 
clear. 

The  material  for  the  basis  of  plain  soup  should  always 
have  its  goodness  extracted  by  first  applying  only  a  small 
quantity  of  water  and  butter  to  the  meat,  the  remaining 
portion  of  water  added,  and  immediately  brought  to  the 
boiling  point,  to  raise  the  scum,  and  then  allowed  to  simmer 
gently ;  then  it  is  that  great  attention  is  necessary  in  remov- 
iug  all  the  scum  at  first  as  it  rises,  else  it  settles  over  the 
meat,  and  the  soup  is  never  dear.  This  must  be  continued 
whilst  any  remains;  a  little  cold  water  thrown  in,  will 
cause  more  scum  to  rise,  should  there  be  any. 

Bich  and  high-seasoned  soups  have  a  much  stronger 
flavour   when  the    meat  is  stewed   with    herbs   and   butter 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC   SOONOMY  AND   COOKBRY.  59 

previotts  to  sioek  or  water  being  added^  than  when  the 
latter  is  at  onee  pat  to  the  meat^  and,  as  is  often  the 
eas^  kept  at  a  boiliag  rate,  tliroughout  the  whole  process, 
by  which  means  the  flavonr  and  juice  is  not  half  extracted, 
and  th^  meat  rendered  tough.  The  ingredients  for  season* 
ing  soup  should  be  so  equally  proportionate,  that,  when 
mixed,  no  particular  flavour  predominates. 

Presh  lean  juicy  meat  is  always  to  be  preferred  for  clear 
soups ;  fat  meat  is  not  so  good,  and  stale  meat  makes  the 
broth  grouty  and  bad  tasted,  besides  wanting  in  its  juices 
and  strength.  Whenever  esculents,  such  as  cabbages,  endive, 
spinach,  or  any  others  are  used,  they  should  be  first  blanched 
in  boiling  water  to  remove  the  bitter  and  strong  taste.  It 
is  sometimes  necessary  to  boil  them  in  one  or  two  waters 
for  this  purpose,  or  they  cannot  be  used. 

Soups  that  have  vegetables  in  them  will  seldom  keep 
beyond  the  next  day,  but  on  no  account  must  they  be 
allowed  to  remain  m  any  metal  vessel,  but  kept  in  earthern 
jars  or  pans.  Whatever  vessel  is  used  for  preparing  soup, 
care  must  be  taken  that  the  lid  fits  close  and  well,  to  pre- 
vent the  quick  diminution  of  the  soup,  though  sometimes 
it  is  necessary,  if  the  soup  is  weak,  that  the  cover  should 
be  removed  to  allow  the  steam  to  pass  off  and  reduce  it : 
the  proportion  of  water  is  about  a  quart  to  a  pound  of 
meat,  if  the  steam  is  retained  by  having  a  close  fitting 
eover  so  that  the  broth  sbwly  evaporates.  Soup  may  also 
be  made  in  a  jar  covered  with  paste,  or  folds  of  paper,  and 
the  jar  boiled  in  water  or  baked  in  an  oven.  Chicken 
broth   made   in  this  way  is  superior. 

Sauces,  ketchups,  fee,  should  only  be  put  to  weak  soups 
diat  require  a  flavour  to  be  given  to  them.  Huch  as  are 
made  from  calves'  and  sheep's  head,  cows'  heels  and  calves' 
feet,  require  flavouring  additions;  where  wine  is  used  a 
glass  mixed  with  the  sauces,  and  put  into  soup  just  before 
it  is  finished,  (to  prevent  its  tasting  raw,)  will  go  as  far 
as  a  pint  that  is  boiled  with  the  soup,  and  which,  if  given 
to  the  cook,  seldom  ever  finds  its  way  to  the   soup  ketde. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CO  INDIAN  DOMSSnC  BCONOMT 

Broth^  to  contain  the  pure  juices  of  the  meat^  must  be 
boiled  gently,  until  it  is  tender;  as  the  flavour  can  only 
be  extracted  bj  very  slow  simmering;  those  seasoned  with 
vegetables  and  herbs,  and  thickened  by  using  flour,  arrow- 
root, rice,  potatoe,  starch,  bread,  sago,  &c.,  are  ^pcidedly 
the  most  wholesome.  £efore  vegetables  or  herbs  are  added 
to  the   broth,  be  careful  that  they  are  perfectly  clean. 

If  broth  is  carefully  skimmed,  it  will  be  clear  enough 
without  clarifying,  which  in  a  great  degree  impairs  tiie 
flavour.  To  clarify  broth»  beat  up  the  white  of  an  egg,  and 
add  it  to  the  broth,  and  stir  it  with  a  whisk,  when  it  has 
boiled  a  few  minutes,  strain  it  through  a  tammis  or  napkin. 
Thickening  may  also  be  done  by  stewing  the  meat  down 
to  a   gelatinous  consistence* 

PAKTICULAa  DlKECnONS. 

White  Soxtps  may  be  flavoured  with  cream,  egg,  almond, 
spices,  white  wine,  celery,  white  pepper,  salt,  &c.  The  thick- 
ening made  of  bread,  arrowroot,  flour,  almonds,  cream, 
mashed  vegetables^  such  as  potatoes,  Jerusalem  artichokes, 
turnips,  pumpkin,  &c. 

Brown  Soxtps  may  be  flavoured  with  sauces,  ketchup, 
essence  of  anchovy,  soy,  herbs^  vegetable  essences,  vegetables, 
wine,  vinegar,  &c.,  and  coloured  with  toasted  bread,  burnt 
sugar,  fried  onions^  or  brown  sauce:  if  the  soup  has  by 
any  means  acquired  a  burnt  taste,  a  little  sugar  will  re- 
move it. 

The  liquor  in  which  mutton^  beef  or  pork  has  been  boiled^ 
if -the  latter  is  not  too  salty  may  be  converted  into  very 
good  plain  economical  soupy  by  adding  vegetables  fried  in 
butter  or  ghee^  and  thickened  with  a  little  arrowroot  or 
flour  made  into  a  paste  with  some  of  the  broth;  it  must 
then  be  boiled  up  again  to  take  off  the  raw  taste  of  the 
same. 

By  attending  to  these  few  directions,  any  person  may 
produce  good  palatable  broths  and  soups,  and  vary  them 
to   any  extent  by  a  little  judgment:  at   the  same  time  it 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY. 


61 


nuist  be  remembered  that  the  relish  is  lost  if  the  soup 
be  oold^  th^efore  never  poor  it  into  the  tureen  until  it 
is  to  be  pnt  on   the  table. 

The  principal  agents  employed  to  flavour  soups  and  sauces, 
are  ijashrooms,  onions,  anchovy,  lemon  juice  and  peeU 
or  vinegar,  wine^  (especially  good  daret,)  sweet  herbs  and 
savoury  spices. 

Broih  heris,  So/up  rooU,  and  Setuonings, 


Scotch  Barley. 

Tomata. 

CherviL 

Bread. 

Celery. 

Shallots. 

Bioe. 

Common  thyme. 

Champignons. 

Potatoe  Mucilage. 

Mushrooms. 

Leeks. 

Carrots. 

Celery  seed. 

Cress  seed. 

Pearl  Barky. 

Lemon  thyme. 

Raspings. 

Orange  thyme. 

Nutmeg. 

VcrmiceUi. 

Gariic. 

Allspice. 

Beet-root. 

Parsley. 

Clove. 

Hour. 

Knotted  marjoram. 

White  pepper. 

Peas. 

Sage. 

Cinnamon. 

Maccaroni. 

Bay  leaves. 

Mace. 

Turnips. 

Burnet. 

Ginger. 

Oatmeal. 

Lemon  peeL 

Black  pepper. 

Beans. 

Mint. 

Isinglass. 

Winter  Sav(»ry. 

Essence  of  anchovy 

Parsnips. 

Tarragon. 

Lemon  juice 

Cucumber. 

Sweet  Basil. 

Seville  Orange  juice 

These  materials,  combined  in  various  proportions,  added 
to  wine  or  mushroom  catsup,  will  give  to  broths  and  soups 
a  variety  of  the  most  agreeable  and  pleasant  flavours. . 

Cut  a  few  carrots  and  turnips  into  narrow 
Soup  h  la  slices  or  ribbands,  divide  two  or  three  heads  of 
Julienne,  celery  and  the  same  number  of  onions  (with 
a  few  leeks),  cut  these  about  an  inch  long,  and 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  wide,  and  the  same  in  thickness. 
Put  into  a  stewpan  two  spoonfuls  of  butter  and  lay  the 
vegetables  over  it.    Fry  the  whole  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring 


Digitized  by 


Google 


6S  INDIAN  DOMBSTIC  fiCONOMT 

it  gently  all  the  while  till  of  a  nice  brown.  Moisten  the 
vegetables  with  veal  gravj^  chicken  or  mutton  broth ;  season 
to  your  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  it  boil  at  the 
side  of  the  fire ;  skim  off  all  the  fat  as  it  rises^  and  add 
a  little  sugar  to  take  off  the  bitter  taste  of  the  vegetables. 
04*. — Green  peas,  French  beans,  some  lettuce  or  sorrel, 
may  be  added. 

Scald  and  clean  the  giblets  of  a  goose  or 
Oiblel  Soup,  a  pair  of  ducks ;  stew  them  in  water,  a  pint 
for  each  set,  till  they  are  quite  tender,  or  with 
a  neck  of  mutton,  or  a  couple  of  pounds  of  gravy  beef, 
three  onions,  a  buijich  of  sweet  herbs  and  four  pints  of 
water,  stew  them  until  the  gizzards  are  quite  tender,  then 
remove  and  set  aside ;  add  more  stock  if  necessary  to  the 
soup.  Flavour  with  mushroom  or  Harvey  sauce,  and  a 
little    butter    rolled    in    arrowroot  or    flour  to  thicken  it. 

Take  four  heads  of  celery,  two  carrots,  two 
Prussian  turnips,  two  onions  and  lettuce,  cut  them  all 
Sottf,  up  into  small  pieces,  and  fry  in  a  little  ghee 
or  dripping.  Take  a  seer  of  mutton,  cut  it 
into  slicesy  put  all  together  in  a  large  saucepan,  and  keep 
it  sweating  for  an  hour  without  any  water,  then  pour  on 
two  quarts  of  water,  shut  the  lid  of  the  saucepan  dose, 
and  simmer     gently  for    two  hours    longer  and    serve   up. 

This  may  be  considered  the  very  best  of  white 
Almond  soups,  and  to  make  it  well,  great  care  is  necessary. 
Soup.  See  that  the  soup  kettle  has  been  well  tinned 
and  well  cleaned,  or  all  your  labour  will  be  in 
vain.  Clean  sweet  towels  are  also  essential,  spoons  and 
ladle.  Make  your  stock  of  the  knuckles  of  veal  and  fat^ 
with  a  slice  of  ham  or  bacon,  season  it  with  thyme  or 
any  sweet  herbs,  using  also  white  pepper.  If  you  have 
not  veal,  neck  of  mutton  with  sheep's  feet  will  answer, 
only  be  careful  to   skim   off  all  the .  fat»  &c«    Have   ready 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKSaT.  63 

a  fowl  nicely  boiled^  and  when  the  stock  is  finished^  say 
enough  for  six  persons^  take  the  meat  off  the  fowl,  cut 
it  ap  into  slices  or  bits,  and  pound  it  well  in  a  marble 
or  large  clean  mortar*  Then  take  four  ounces  of  blanched 
almonds,  pound  them  up  fine,  and  mix  with  the  pounded 
meat  of  the  fowl,  adding  six  table-spoonfuls  of  cream  or 
Tery  rich  buffalo  milk — if  milk  is  used,  add  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  or  a  couple— -rub  the  whole  through  a  sieve  or 
coarse  doth;  when  this  is  done,  take  as  much  arrowroot 
as  you  conceive  necessary  to  give  a  prefer  consistency 
to  the  soup*— a  table-spoonfol  is  enough;  this  must  be 
mixed  with  a  little  of  the  stock,  then  add  the  whole  together, 
atirring  it  carefully,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  else  it  will 
curdle. 

Take  three  quarts  of  good  white  stock,  made 
Another        either  of  fowl,   veal,  rabbits,  or  aheep's  head  and 
White         feet,   or  the  liquor  in  which   a  calPs  head  has 
Soup.  been  boiled;  put  one  pound  of  lean  veal,  some 

slices  of  ham,  two  or  three  whole  onions,  a 
head  of  white  celery  and  a  large  carrot,  a  banch  of 
parsley,  and  three  blades  of  mace,  boil  one  hour;  strain 
and  add  to  the  liquor  the  white  part  of  a  cold  roast 
or  boiled  fowl,  (or  pheasant)  finely  pounded,  about  two 
ounces  of  sweet  almonds  blanched  and  pounded,  and  the 
pounded  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs.  Bub  the  whole 
through  a  sieve  or  coarse  open-textured  doth.  Mix  the 
yolk  of  six  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  one  pint  of  boiled 
cream  and  a  table-spoonfd  of  arrowroot,  add  it  to  the 
soup.  Stir  it  over  the  fire  until  thoroughly  hot,  but  on 
no  account  let  it  boil,  or  else  it  will  curdle;  then  add  a 
little  salt  and  a  tea-spoopfol  of  sugar. 

Obs. — Two  or  theee  table-spoonfuls  of  butter  may  be 
added  to  the  cream  instead  of  arrowroot,  and  a  few  peach 
kayes  substituted  for  the  almonds,  but  the  latter  must 
be  boiled  in  the  stock. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


64  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  BCONOKT 

Make  a  clear  broth  from  the  head  and  iSeel 
Artichoke  of  a  sheep  or  from  the  remains  of  any  cold 
Soup,  Je-  meaty  or  a  large  roast  fowl  will  answer ;  have 
rusalem.  ready  the  following  vegetables,  which  dean  and 
cut  up  into  slices :  one  head  of  celery ;  carrots, 
turnips,  leeks  and  onions,  two  of  each ;  stick  ludf  a  doeen 
cloves  in  the  latter,  and  put  the  whole  into  a  stewpan 
with  the  consomme,  (or  the  cold  roast  fowl  cut  up,)  to 
which  add  from  two  to  three  quarts  of  broth;  boil  the 
whole  gently  for  a  couple  of  hours,  and  skim  off  the  fat 
as  it  rises.  Take  two  pounds  of  Jerusalem  artichokes, 
wash  and  peel  them  clean,  free  from  all  skin  and  colour ; 
put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  some  broth,  and  boil  till 
they  are  sufficiently  tender  to  rub  through  a  cloth;  strain 
the  remainder  of  the  broth  and  add  the  artichokes  with 
a  little  salt,  after  which  return  the  whole  into  the  stew- 
pan  and  give  it  a  boil  up,  taking  off  any  scum  that 
rises;  then  mix  with  it  a  pint  of  boiling  cream  in  which 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  or  two  has  been  beaten.  Serve  with 
or  without  toasted  sippets  of  bread. 

Take  three  quarts  of  plain  good  veal  or  mutton 
Another       broth,   add  the  following  vegetables,  sliced  :   two 
way.  onions   sthck    with   a  few    cloves,   two    carrots, 

two  turnips,  a  head  of  celery  ;  boil  the  whole 
very  slowly  down  to  one  half,  and  remove  any  scum  that 
rises ;  take  at  least  a  pound  and  a  half  of  artichokes  that 
have  been  carefully  scraped  and  cleaned;  boil  them  in 
some  broth,  then  rub  smooth  in  a  mortar,  and  pass  the 
whole  with  the  remainder  of  the  broth  through  a  tammis  ; 
have  ready  a  pint  of  rich  milk  thickened  with  arrowroot 
and  the  yolk  of  two  eggs  to  the  consistence  of  cream  ; 
add  this  to  the  soup,  with  a  little  salt,  and  serve  up 
hot. 

Asparagus       This  is  made     only  with  the    green  tops,   in 
Soup,      the    same    manner    as  pea    soup.    Having    pre- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AXB  OOOKEBY.  65 

pued  two  quarts  of  veal  or  mutton  brotb^  take  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  the  green  tops^  cut  about  two  inches  in 
length  and  boil  them  in  water  with  a  little  salt;  then 
mb  two-thirds  through  a  cloth  or  sieve  and  thicken  the 
broth  with  it;  the  remainder  chop  up  to  the  size  of 
peas,  and  lastlj  put  with  the  soup  before  serving,  that 
thejr   may  be   as  firm  as  possible. 

Take  a  leg  and  shin  and  break  the  bones 
BetfBouiUi  of  the  formerj  or  else  eight  or  nine  pounds 
and  Soup.  of  the  brisket,  put  it  into  a  soup  kettle,  or 
stewpan,  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water  to 
oover  it  well;  set  it  on  a  quick  fire  to  raise  the  scum, 
which  remove  as  it  rises  j^  add  two  carrots,  the  same  of 
onions,  turnips,  and  two  heads  of  celery,  with  a  little 
parsley,  and  spice,  also  a  slice  or  two  of  lean  ham  if 
you  have  it  by  you,  or  an  anchovy;  let  the  whole 
simmer  gently  for  four  or  five  hours;  season  with  all* 
spioe  and  black  pepper ;  then  carefully  remove  the  meat 
and  keep  it  warm,  whilst  getting  ready  the  following 
vegetables:  take  a  large  carrot,  an  onion,  a  turnip  and 
a  head  of  celeiy;  put  them  into  the  soup  and  boil  till 
tender ;  then  take  them  out  and  cut  the  whole  into  slices ; 
thicken  a  part  of  the  gravy  with  flour  and  add  the  veget- 
ables; give  the  whole  a  warm  up,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  the  meat  if  served  whole,  if  cut  into  slices  pour  the 
sauce  and  v^etables  round  it. 

A  few  chopped  capers  or  some  mushroom  catsup  may 
be  added,  and  the  bouilli  may  be  served  on  stewed  red 
cabbage  flavoured  with  vinegar.  If  you  wish  to  have  soup 
as  well>  strain  the  soup  through  a  sieve  or  coarse  cloth 
into  a  clean  saucepan,  put  the  vegetables  cut  into  the 
soup  after  the  fat  has  been  removed,  and  flavour  the  soup 
with  a  glass  of  port  wine,  some  pepper  and  mushroom 
catsup,  and  thicken  it  if  required  with  three  or  four 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  or  a  sufficient  quantity  of  arrowroot 
robbed   up    in    butter,  or   a  little    of  the    clear  fat  from 

I 


Digitized  by 


Google 


66  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

the  top  quite  smooth;  stir  it  by  degrees  into  the  soap 
and  simmer  for  ten  minutes  longer;  brown  a  little  pound* 
ed   sugar  at  the    fire  and  put  it  to  colour,  if  necessary. 

Take  a  leg  (and  cut  the  meat  into  pieces),  or 
Betf  gravy,  four  or  five  pounds  of  gravy  beef,  lay  it  in 
a  stewpan,  properly  tinned,  with  half  a  pound 
of  ham  or  lean  bacon,  a  large  carrot,  a  head  of  celery, 
an  onion  with  a  dozen  cloves  stuck  in  it,  some  black 
pepper  and  a  little  sugar ;  moisten  it  with  a  pint  of 
broth  or  water;  cover  the  stewpan  dose  and  set  it  over 
a  moderate  fire;  when  the  broth  is  so  nearly  reduced 
as  only  to  save  the  ingredients  from  burning,  prick  the 
meat  with  a  knife  and  shake  it  about  so  as  to  brown  it 
equally  all  over;  then  gradually  add^a  pint  or  more  of 
boiling  water  for  each  pound  of  meat ;  let  the  whole  stew 
gently  from  four  to  five  hours,  and  skim  it  well  at  inter« 
vals  that  it  may  be  very  clear,  then  strain  it  through  a 
fine  napkin,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place;  when  cold,  take 
off  all  the  fat. 

Oitf.— -Particular  care  is  necessary,  during  the  process 
of  browning  the  meat,  to  prevent  it  sticking  to  the  pan 
and  acquiring  a  burnt  taste;  also  if  the  water  is  pour- 
ed in  too  soon,  the  colour  and  flavour  will  be  injured; 
and  if  by  accident  it  is  at  all  muddy,  it  can  only  be 
converted,  by   thickening,  into  some  other  soup. 

This    may  be    made  to  approach    very    near- 

Imitation     ly  in  flavour   the    genuine    oyster.    Having  pre- 

OysUr       pared  a  good  white  stodc  or     consomme   (a  full 

Soiip.        quart),   take    and  blanch  two  ounces  of  shelled 

almonds    (sweet)    and  pound    them    to    a  paste 

with    a    little    water;  then    rub    it    with   a  half    pint    of 

cream,    or  rich    milk,     through  a  cloth  or  sieve;  mix  up 

two    table-spoonfuls  of  anchovy   sauce,  three    of  mushroom 

catsup,    one  of  vinq;ar,  three  of  white  wine,  a  quarter  of 

a  nutmeg  grated,   and   the  yolk  of  two  eggs  well    beaten 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKBJIY.  67 

with  a  table-spoonful  of  arrowroot  or  fine  flour;  add  this 
to  the  consomme^  with  the  abnonds  and  cream^  and  give 
the  whole  a  boil  up;  season  only  with  pepper  and  a 
little  mace. 

Clean   the    head   and    feet   of   a   calf;    then 
Mock  scald   off  all  the  hair  in  boiling  water^   scrap- 

turtle,  ing  it  well  with  a  knife ;  when  the  head  and 
feet  are  properly  cleaned  and  the  fat  remov- 
edy  split  the  head  open,  take  out  the  brains  and  lay 
them  aside;  put  the  head  with  about  five  quarts  of  clear 
water  into  the  soup  kettle,  with  a  dose-fitting  lid,  and 
let  it  boil  gently  until  the  head  is  sufficiently  done^  so 
that  the  meat  separates  from  the  bone;  if  half  the  head 
is  required  for  a  side  dish,  you  must  remove  it  before 
quite  so  much  done,  with  the  tongue,  but  do  not  take 
away  the  bone;  set  this  on  one  side,  and  let  the  othw 
half  simmer  a  little  longer;  when  ready,  remove  the 
whole  of  the  skin  and  meat,  and  reduce  the  broth  to 
about  a  couple  of  quarts,  or  one  half;  strain  it  through 
a  thick  wet  doth  and  set  it  to  cool.  Take  the  meat, 
cut  it  into  slices  of  half  an  inch  square,  and  set  it  on 
one  side.  Boil  the  feet  down  into  a  jelly  of  a  quart 
or  more,  strain  it  and  let  it  stand  to  cod,  when  you  can 
remove  the  fat  and  scum  if  any.  Now  take  the  brains, 
which  have  been  previously  boiled,  set  apart  half  for  sauce 
for  the  remainder  of  the  head,  and  with  the  other  portion 
add  crumbs  of  bread,  yolk  of  ej^,  black  pepper  and  salt; 
bind  the  whole  with  a  little  flour,  and  make  into  balls  the 
size  of  marbles  and  fry  in  hot  ghee  to  a  nice  brown.  Then 
take  6ome  veal,  fowl  or  fish,  chop  it  up  fine,  pound  it  in 
a  mortar,  to  which  add  chopped  parsley,  or  lemon  thyme, 
some  crumbs  of  bread,  marrow,  ved  udder  or  suet,  the 
yolks  of  eggs,  a  little  sdt  and  pepper,  with  a  little  flour  to 
bind  the  whole;  make  this  into  bdb  and  fry  of  a  rich  brown* 
Then  make  some  egg-balls  and  keep  the  whole  on  one  side 
till  the  soup  is  ready  for   serving;  now  brown  your  stock 


Digitized  by 


Google 


68  INDIAN    DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

with  roax,  add  the  jelly  from  the  feet  with  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  mushroom  catsup,  one  of  anchovy  saace,  three 
glasses  of  Prench  claret,  or  two  of  white  wine,  a  blade  of 
mace,  half  a  grated  nutmeg,  some  black  pepper  and  a 
table-spoonfol  of  sweet  basil,  wine  or  vinegar,  or  two  or 
tliree  of  the  fresh  leaves  not  more ;  give  the  whole  a  boil 
up  with  the  slices  of  the  head.  Then  put  the  force  meat 
balls  into  the  soup  tureen  with  the  juice  of  a  lime,  and 
pour  the  soup  over  it.  Bed  pepper  is  an  improvement, 
which   can  be  added  at  pleasure. 

Take  the  head  and  feet  and  clean  them  as 
Another       directed  in  the    last    receipt,  also  a    pound  of 

way.  '  pickled  pork,  which  soak,  and  wash  ofTall  the 
salt;  put  the  whole  into  a  soup  kettle  with 
a  couple  of  onions  stuck  with  cloves,  some  lemon  thyme« 
a  leaf  or  two  of  sweet  basil,  a  stick  of  celery  and  a  blade 
of  mace ;  add  about  six  or  seven  quarts  of  water  and  boil 
very  gently  until  the  meat  is  tender;  separate  the  meat 
from  the  bones  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces;  return  the 
bones  into  the  soup  and  let  it  stew  for  some  time  longer 
until  sufficiently  reduced ;  then  set  it  to  cool,  remoTe  all  the 
fat  and  strain  it :  colour  the  soup,  add  the  wine  and  sauces, 
with  the  force  meat  and  egg  baUs,  as  directed  in  the  last 
receipt. 

Obt.^-Two  sheep's  head  with  eight  feet,  dressed  in  a 
similar  manner,  will  make  excdilent  imitation  mock  turtle. 
The  skin  of  the  head  may  be  made  to  resemble  the  green 
calapash,  by  colouring  it  with  spinach  juice  after  it  has 
been  cut  into  pieces. 

Make  two  quarts  of  a  rich  stock  with  a 
Carrol  Soup,  shin  of  beef,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean 
ham,  a  fowl,  some  sweet  herbs,  cloves,  two 
onions,  black  pepper,  and  salt,  with  a  head  of  celery; 
strain;  let  it  stand;  when  cool,  remove  all  the  fat.  Clean 
and  boil  till  tender,  twelve  good  sized  carrots^  poand  them 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AXD  OOOKBRY.  69 

in  a  mortar,    and  rab    through  a    tammis  into    the  soup, 
gi?e  it  a  boil  and  serve. 
Oil.— A  spoonfol  or  two  of  mushroom  catsup  improves  it. 

Make  some  good  clear  mutton  broth, 
CveMmierand  about  three  quarts  or  more,  from  the  neck 
Pea  Soup.  and  head,  a  thick  slice  of  lean  bacon,  an 
onion  stuck  with  four  or  five  cloves,  a  carrot, 
two  tonupsy  a  little  salt  and  a  few  sweet  herbs^  strain 
it,  and  brown  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  the  crumb 
of  a  French  roll,  to  which  add  four  cucumbers  and  two 
heads  of  lettuce  cut  small;  let  them  stew  a  quarter  of 
an  hour  in  a  quart  of  the  broth;  when  it  boils,  put  in 
a  qnart  of  green  peas ;  and,  as  it  stewst  add  the  remainder 
of  the  broth. 

To  every  pound  of  eels  add  a  quart  of  water, 
EdStmp.  an  onion,  some  sweet  herbs,  a  cm^t  of  bread, 
some  mace,*  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  the  whole 
boil  until  half  the  liquor  is  wasted;  then  strain  and  serve 
up  with  toaated  bread.  If  the  soup  is  not  rich  enough, 
tticken  with  flour  and  butter. 

To  the  liquor  in  which  eels  have  been  boiled, 
IdSoup,  add  a  small  bunch  of  parsley  and  a  couple  of 
pkm.  green  onions.  Let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then 
put  in  a  thickening  of  fiour  rolled  in  butter,  with 
a  little  salt ;  continue  the  boiling  until  the  rawness  of  the 
floor  is  gone ;  add  a  small  quantity  of  white  pepper,  and 
poor  into  the  tureen.  Have  ready  the  yolk  of  one  ej^ 
beaten  up    and   stir  it  in   the   soup. 

To  make   a  tureenful,  take  a  couple   of  middling 

FiikSaup.  sized  onions,   cut   them    in    halves,    and    across, 

two  or  three  times;  put    two   ounces   of    butter 

into  a  stewpan^  when  it  is  melted,  put   in  the  onions,  stir 

them  about  till  they  are  lightly  browned.    Cut  into  pieces 


Digitized  by 


Google 


70  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

three  pounds  of  unskinned  eels  (or  other  fish),  pat  them 
into  your  stewpan  and  shake  them  over  the  fire  four  or 
five  minutes,  then  add  three  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and 
when  it  comes  to  boil,  take  the  scum  ofT  verj  dean ;  then 
put  in  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  the  green  leaves  (not  dried) 
of  basil  or  winter  savory,  the  same  of  lemon  thyme,  and 
twice  the  quantity  of  parsley  chopped,  two  drachms  of 
allspice,  the  same  of  black  pepper ;  cover  it  close  and  let 
it  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  then  strain  it  ofF,  and  skim 
it  very  clean.  To  thicken  it,  put  three  ounces  of  butter 
into  a  clean  stewpan ;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  in  as  much 
flour  or  arrowroot  as  will  make  it  of  a  stiff  paste,  then 
add  the  liquor  by  degrees,  let  it  simmer  for  ten  minutesj 
and  pass  it  through  your  sieve,  then  put  your  soup  on 
in  a  clean  stewpan,  and  have  ready  some  little  square  pieces 
of  fish  fried  of  a  nice  light  brown.  The  firied  fish  should 
be  added  a  little  before  the  soup  is  served  up.  Force  meat 
balls  are  sometimes  served  with  it. 

Take  two  ounces  of  any  fish — crayfish, 
Fisk force  metU  lobster,  shrimps,  or  oysters,  free  from  skin  ; 
far  Soup.  put  it  in  a  mortar  with  two  ounces  of  fresh 
butter,  one  ounce  of  bread  erumbs9  the 
yolk  of  two  egg^  boiled  hard,  and.  a  little  eshallot,  grated 
lemon  peel,  and  parsley,  minced  very  fine;  then  pound  it 
well  till  it  is  thoroughly  mixed  and  quite  smooth;  season 
it  with  salt  and  cayenne  to  your  taste,  break  in  the  yolk 
and  white  of  one  egg,  rub  it  well  together,  and  it  is  ready 
for  use.  Oysters  parboiled  and  minced  fine,  and  an  anchovy 
may   be   added. 

Take  three  pounds  of  any  fish,  cut  it  into 
Fi$l  Soup.  pieces  and  place  them  in  a  stewpan  with  two 
anchovies,  some  onions,  parsnips,  turnips,  celery^ 
and  sweet  herbs,  and  three  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Stew 
altogether  for  two  hours,  then  strain  and  season  with  white 
pepper  and  salt   to  taste.    Put  some  force   meat    balls    in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  71 

the  sonpj  with  the  crust  of  a  !French  roll,  and  let  it  sim- 
mer for  a  quarter  of  an  hour   before  serving  np. 

Cnt  half  a  pound    of  ham  into  slices,  and 
Gravj^  Soup,     lay  them  at  the    bottom   of  a  large  stewpan 
clear.  or  stockpot  with  two    or  three  pounds  of  lean 

beef,  and  as  much  veal ;  break  the  bones  and 
lay  them  on  the  meat ;  take  off  the  outer  skin  of  two  large 
onions  and  two  turnips,  wash  dean  and  cut  into  pieces  a 
couple  of  large  carrots  and  two  heads  of  celery,  and  put  in 
three  cloves  and  a  large  blade  of  mace ;  cover  the  stewpan  close, 
and  set  it  over  a  smart  fire.  When  the  meat  begins  to 
stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan,  turn  it,  and  when 
there  is  a  nice  brown  ^  glaze  at  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan, 
cover  the  meat  with  hot  water,  watch  it,  and  whep  it 
is  coming  to  a  boil,  put  in  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  take 
off  the  scum,  then  put  in  half  a  pint  of  more  cold  water, 
and  skim  it  again,  and  continue  to  do  so  till  no  more 
scorn  rises.  Now  set  it  on  one  side  of  the  fire  to  boil 
gently  for  about  four  hours,  strain  it  through  a  dean 
tammis  or  napkin  (do  not  squeeze  it,  or  the  soup  will  be 
thick)  into  a  clean  stewpan,  let  it  remain  till  it  is  cold, 
and  then  remove  all  the  fat.  "When  you  pour  it  off,  be 
cuefdl  not  to  disturb  the  settlings  at  the  bottom  of  the 
pan. 

Take  three  pints  of    large   peas    of  a  nice 
Oreeii  Peaa     green  colour,  boil    them    with    a  quarter    of 
Soup.  a  pound  of  butter  and  a  handful    of   parsley 

and  green  onions  over  a  slow  fire  till  thorough- 
ly stewed;  then  put  them  into  a  mortar,  and  pound  them 
well,  rub  them  through  a  tammis  and  moisten  with  good 
eonsomme;  leave  it  on  the  comer  of  the  fire,  for  if  it 
boils  the  peas  will  lose  their  green  colour.  Just  at  the 
moment  of  sending  up,  put  in  slices  of  bread  nicdy  fried 
and  cut  in   dice   shape. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


72  INDIAN   DOMBSnC  XOONOMY 

Tske  a  couple  of  hares^  skin  and  wash  the 
Hare  Soup*  inside  well,  separate  the  legs,  head,  shoulders, 
&c* ;  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  couple 
of  onions  stuck  with  cloves,  a  bundle  of  parsley,  «  sprig 
or  two  of  thyme,  two  or  three  leaves  of  sweet  basil  (Suffidd 
Toolsie),  and  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  with  half  a  pint 
of  broth  or  port  wine;  put  the  whole  over  a  slow  fire 
or  stove,  and  simmer  with  the  saucepan  covered  close  for 
one  hour;  then  add  a  sufficient  quantity  of  good  broth 
to  cover*  the  whole,  and  continue  to  boil  it  gently  until 
the  meat  is  quite  tender.  Then  remove  it  from  the  broth, 
and  strain  the  latter  through  a  doth  or  sieve,  and  soak 
the  crumb  of  a  small  loaf  in  it*  Then  remove  all  the 
meat  from  the  bones  of  the  hares  and  pound  it  in  a 
mortar  until  fine  enough  to  be  rubbed  through  a  sieve 
or  tammis;  moisten  this  with  the  broth  and  season  with 
a  htile  mushroom  catsup.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to 
make  the  soup  too  thick,  by  adding  a  larger  quantity  of 
meat  than  is  necessary.  If  the  soup  has  to  be  warmed 
up  again,  it  must  not  be  allowed  to  boil. 

Odtf.— When  it  is  possible,  the  blood  of  the  hare  should 
be  preserved  in  a  basin  until  the  soup  is  about  to  be  serv- 
ed ;  then  pour  the  blood  to  it  by  degrees  and  stir  it  weU 
till  it  is  thickened,  but  take  care  it  does  not  curdle.  This 
makes  the  soup  of  a  black  colour.  A  few  scollops  may 
be  set  aside  for  adding  to  the  soup  before  serving. 

Take    two  or    three  hares,    cut    them  into 
Anoiher.  pieces    and    put  them    with    a   small  shin  of 

beef,  or  a  cow-heel,  into  a  kettle  with ,  six 
seers  of  water,  some  herbs,  a  large  onion  and  a  blade  of 
mace;  simmer  gently  over  a  charcoal  fire  until  the  gravy 
is  strong;  then  take  out  the  back  and  legs,  cut  the  meat  o£F, 
return  the  bones,  and  continue  stewing  till  the  meat  is 
nearly  dissolved.  Then  strain  the  gravy,  and  put  a  glass 
of  port  wine  to  every  quart  of  soup,  add  pepper  and  salt  ; 
give  it  a  boil  up  with  the  meat  for  a  few  minutes,  and  serve. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  73 

Obs. — ^An  Indian  bare  will  not  make  more  than  a  basin 

of   lK)1]p. 

Skin  and  clean  out  the  inside  of  three 
Queen  Sanp^  fowls  or  chickens  ;  let  them  be  washed  in 
warm  water  ;  stew  for  an  hour  with  sufficient 
strong  veal  broth  to  cover  the  meat^  and  a  bunch  of  parsley. 
Take  out  the  fowls,  and* soak  the  crumb  of  a  small  loaf 
in  the  liquor  ;  cut  the  meat  off ;  take  away  the  skin  and 
pound  the  flesh  in  a  mortar,  adding  the  soaked  crumb 
and  the  yolks  of  five  hard  boiled  eggs  ;  rub  this  through 
a  coarse  sieve  or  tammis,  and  put  into  it  a  quart  of  cream 
that   has  been  previously   boiled. 

Take  three  quarts  of  veal  broth^  put  it 
Lobster  Soup,  into  a  stewpan  with  some  onions^  celery, 
carrots,  parsnips^  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
three  anchovies,  or  a  red  herring,  stew  gently  for  two 
hours,  strain,  then  add  to  the  soup  the  meat  of  three 
lobsters  cut  small,  and  thicken  with  butter  rolled  in  flour  ; 
if  there  is  any  spawn,  bruise  it  in  a  mortar,  with  a  little 
floor  and  butter,  rub  it  through  a  sieve  and  a^d  it  to  the 
soup.  Let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  ten  minutes ;  it  must 
not  boil,  or.  its  red  colour  will  be  lost :  turn  it  into  a 
tureen,  add  the  juice  of  a  lime  with  a  little  essence  of 
anchovy. 

Obs, — ^The    stock     for    this   soup   may    be  made    of    fish 
instead  of  veal  gravy. 

9 

Half  an  ounce  of  vermicelli  or  maccaroni 

Maeearoni  or  is  enough    for   each  person.    First    break    it 

Vermicelli      into  its  proper  length,  then  wash  it  in  clear 

Soup,         water  to  remove  any   dirt    or  stale   flavour; 

strain    and  put  it    into    some   boiling    broth 

that  has  been  flavoured  with  a  stalk  of  celery.    Make  some 

good  consomme  with  a  shin  of  beef  and  a  couple  of  calves' 


Digitized  by 


Google 


74  INDIAN   BOHfiSnC  ECONOMY 

feet  or  half  a  dozen  sheep's  trotters^  five  seers  of  water, 
carrots,  turnips  and  onions,  sliced,  six  of  each,  some  sweet 
herbs,  black  pepper,  salt,  and  a  small  spoonful  of  sugar  ; 
simmer  all  very  gently  for  five  or  six  hours  ;  then  strain 
and  set  it  to  cool ;  remove  the  fat,  add  the  maccaroni  or 
vermicelli,  and  give  the  whole  a  w&rm  up.  Serve  with  a 
French  roll  or  croustades.  Italian  paste  may  be  prepared 
in   the  same  manner. 

Boil   the   eggs   until  quite  hard,     throw  them 

Egg  Balls    into  cold    water,   remove  the   white    and   pound 

for  Soup,    the  yolks  in  a  mortar,  working   them  with  the 

yolk  of  a  raw  egg  to  bind,  roll  them  up  firmly 

into  small  sized   balls   and  boil   them. 

Oh. — Salt,  pepper,   cayenne,    chopped  parsley,    and   flour 
may  be  added. 

Boil  two  roots  of  large  sized  beet,  rub  off 
JBeet-root  the  skin  with  a  towel  and  mince  finely  with' 
Soup*  two  or  three  onions*  Add  five  pints  of  good 
rich  gravy  soup,  then  stir  in  thr^e  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  one  of  moist  sugar  ;  let  it  boil. 
If  not  thick  enough,  add  a  little  arrowroot  or  flour.  Throw 
in   some   veal  force  meat  balls  rolled  in  flour. 

Take  four  or  five  onions  and  four  cloves 
Mulligataw-  of  garlic,  slice  them  very  fine,  and  put  them 
ney  Soup,  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter.  Take  two  chickens,  or  a  rabbit,  a 
fowl,  some  beef,  or  mutton,  and  cut  them  as  for  fricassee  ; 
season  with  a  little  white  pepper ;  lay  the  meat  upon  the 
onions  ;  cover  the  stewpan  closely,  and  let  it  simmer  for 
half  an  hour.  Having  prepared  the  following  ingredients 
well  ground  or  pounded  in  a  mortar,  add  them  with  two 
quarts  of  clear  gravy,  and  let  it  simmer  for  half  an  hour, 
adding  during  the  last  five  minutes,  the  juice  of  a  lime 
with  a  little  flour  or  surrowroot. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  *  76 

Inffredienia,* 

Turmeric 1  Tolah.  Salt 1  Tolah. 

Cajenne  Pepper.... .....1  Massa.  Fenugreek \  Tolah. 

Coriander  Seeds 4  Tolahs.  *Currj  pak   leaves,  four  or  five 

Black  Pepper 1  Tolah.  to  be  added   whilst  boiling. 

Cut  up  a  large  fowl,  or  four  pounds  of  the 
Anoiier.  breast  of  mutton  or  veal  into  slices^  put  the 
trimmings  into  a  stew  pan  with  two  quarts  of 
water,  a  few  corns  of  black  pepper,  and  some  allspice; 
when  it  boils,  skim  it  clean,  and  let  it  boil  gentlj  an 
hoar  or  more;  then  strain  it  off;  take  some  of  the  bits 
of  the  meat  and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown  in  butter,  with 
three  or  four  sUced  onions;  when  they  are  done,  put  the 
broth  to  them,  put  it  on  the  fire,  skim  it  clear,  let  it 
simmer  half  an  hour,  then  mix  two  spoonfuls  of  curry 
powder  and  a  little  flour  or  arrowroot  with  a  tea-spoon- 
fol  of  salt,  and  a  sufBciency  of  water  to  thicken  the  soup, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  till  the  meat  is  quite  tender;  and 
when  it  is  ready,  a  few  curry  pak  leaves,  dried,  may  be 
added  to   flavour  it. 

Cut  up  a  fowl  in  slices,  with  four  large  onions 
Another.  and .  half  a  dozen  cloves,  put  into  a  stewpan 
with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter;  and  when 
melted,  and  the  meat  and  onions  are  nearly  browned,  add 
three  table- spoonfuls  of  curry  powder  or  the  ingredients 
for  No.  1,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  and  a  cup  of  tyre, 
or  two  spoonfuls  of  Bruce's  Madras  MuUigatawney  paste. 
Stew  gently  until  a  rich  smell  issues  from  the  pan;  then 
add  three  pints  of  good  broth,  veal  or  mutton,  and  let  it 
simmer  for  twenty  minutes.  Thicken  with  a  little  flour 
or  arrowroot  mixed  in  cold  broth  or  butter,  with  the 
juice  of  a  lime,  a  few  minutes  before  serving.  A  few  pak 
leaves  may  be   added. 


*  Native  name,  Kodia  neem. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


76  INDIAN    DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 

Clean   and  cut  up  the  bird,   separate  all  the 

Pea-fowl     joints,  put     into  a  stewpan  with   four    quarts  of 

Mulliga-    water,   a   few  corns  of  black  pepper,  and  some 

tatoney*      allspice ;   when   it   boils,  skim  it  clean,  and    let 

it    boil    gently    for  two    hours    or    more ;  then 

strain  it  off.    Take    some    of    the  bits  of    meat    and    fipy 

them  of  a  nice  bro¥ni  in'  butter  with  three  or  four  sliced 

onions  ;   when  they   are  done,   put  the  broth  to  them,  put 

it  on  the  fire,   skim  it   clean,  let   it   simmer  half  an  hour, 

then  mix  two  spoonfuls   of  curry  powder,  and  a   little  flour 

or  arrowroot  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,   and  a  suf&ciency 

of    water   to  thicken    the   soup,     and  let  it  simmer  gently 

till  the  meat  is   quite    tender,  and  it    is    ready.    A    few 

pak   leaves  may   be  added  to  flavour  it. 

Take  a  handful  of  cut  nolecole,  carrots,  tur- 
Meagre  nips,  celery  or  any  other  vegetables  ;  blanch,  and 
Soup,  fry  them  with  a  large  proportion  of  onions,  in 
butter  or  ghee ;  dredge  with  flour,  and  put 
them  with  fish  stock  ;  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  vegeta- 
ble dissolve.  Have  ready  bread  or  vegetable  to  put  into 
the  soup. 

Slice,   very    thin,    twelve     large    onions,  one 

A  Meagre   turnip,   two   carrots,  and  two  heads   of  celery ; 

Onion  Soup,  fry  them   in  half  a  pound  of  butter  until  quite 

brown;  add  four  quarts  of  boiling  water,  four 

anchovies,  four  blades  of  mace,   a  few  pepper  corns,  some 

salt,   and  two  rolls  of  white  bread   or  a  small  loaf.     Boil 

all  together   till    reduced  to  a  pulp;  strain,  set  it  on  the 

fire,  skim   and  thicken     with  the  yolks  of  six   eggs,  serve 

with   fried  bread   or  French  roll. 

Take    six    table-spoonfols    of   clean    ghee. 

Another  Soup  or   melt  the    same    quantity   of    butter  in  a 

Meagre,        stewpan;    add,    sliced,    three  or  four  onions, 

a  couple  of    heads  of    celery,  two   or    three 

turnips,  some  cabbage,  spinage,  parsley,  thvme  or  any  other 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKEUY.  77 

herbs;  set  them  over  the  fire  to  stew  gently  for  half  an 
hour;  then  add  by  degrees  two  quarts  of  water^  and  sim- 
mer until  the  vegetables  are  quite  tender;  season  with 
mushroom  catsup^  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  with  slices  of 
toast  at  the  bottom  of  the  tureen. 

Prepare  meat^  vegetable,  or  fish  stock,  and 
Ogiter  Soup,  season  it  well  without  salt.  Boil  down  a  few 
oysters  for  thickening,  and,  if  necessary,  some 
white  meat  or  fish,  and  panada  farce  may  also  be  made  of 
the  fish.  If  the  oysters  are  very  large,  they  must  be  cut 
in  two,  as  every  thing  in  the  soup  should  be  nearly  the 
same  size;  rub  the  thickening  through  a  tammis  with  a 
httle ,  of  the  soup ;  every  quart  of  the  soup  will  require  • 
about  half  a  pint  of  oysters.  All  fish  soups  may  be  flavored 
with  ketchups,    anchovy,    lemon  pickle,  soy,   &c.   &c. 

One  tail  is  sufficient  to  make  soup  for  four 
Ox-tail  Soup,  or  five  persons ;  divide  the  tail  at  the  joints 
and  soak  tliem  in  warm  water ;  if  the 
bones  are  partially  sawed  across  they  will  give  more  strength  ^ 
to  the  soup.  Put  into  a  stewpan  the  slices  of  the  tail 
and  fry  them  a  little;  then  add  a  few  cloves,  with  a  couple 
of  large  onions,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  some  black  pepper 
and  a  blade  of  mace;  cover  the  whole  with  water,  and 
as  it  boils,  keep  removing  the  scum  whilst  any  rises;  then 
replace  the  cover  close  and  set  the  pot  on  the  side  of  the 
fire  to  sinmier  gently  for  two  or  three  hours  until  the 
meat  is  tender,  when  remove  it  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces, 
laying  them  on  one  side ;  strain  the  broth  through  a  cloth 
or  sieve ;  add  a  glass  of  wine  with  a  couple  of  spoonfuls 
of  mushroom  catsup,  Harvey  sauce,  or  soy ;  return  the 
meat  into  the  soup  and  give  it  a  boil  up.  If  you  wish 
the  soup  to  be  thick,  take  a  couple  of  spoonfuls  of  the 
clear  fat  that  has  been  removed,  mix  it  into  a  paste  with 
flour  and  add  the  warm  broth  by  degrees,  stirring  it  quite 
smooth,  and  let  it  simmer  for  a  short  time;  or  add,  a 
tittle    arrowroot    with    the    wine    and    sauce.     Have    ready 


Digitized  by 


Google 


78  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

<  some  nicely  cut  carrots,  turnips,  and  small  onions,  prepared 
and  boiled  previously,  which  add  to  the  soup  a  minute 
or  two   before  serving. 

Obs. — Two  or  three  slices  of  bacon  or  ham,  laid  at  the 
bottom  of  the  stewpan  with  the  meat,  will  increase  the 
flavour   of  the  soup. 

Take  a  pint  of  split  peas  or  dh&Il,  steep 
DAdll  or  split  them  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  two, 
PeasSoujo.  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  quart 
of  water,  and  boil  them  until  they  can 
be  pulped  through  a  sieve  or  coarse  cloth;  then  add  them 
to  some  good  broth  that  has  been  seasoned,  with  a  little 
ham,  or  the  root  of  a  salted  tongue  and  a  head  of  celery, 
and  boil  toge&er  for  a  few  minutes.  Serve  up  with  fried 
bread   and   powdered  mint  in   a  separate  plate. 

Take  lean  bacon  or  ham  (half  a  pound) 
Anothif  way.  cut  into  slices,  water  four  quarts,,  split  peas 
or  dh&ll  one  pint  which  have  been  soaked 
for  two  hours,  one  head  of  celery,  carrots,  turnips  and 
onions  sliced  two  of  each,  add  pepper  and  a  littlt  salt ;  put 
the  whole  into  a  stewpan  and  set  it  on  the  fire;  when  it 
boils  take  it  off,  then  let  it  simmer  by  the  fire  three  or 
four  hours  until  the  peas  or  dh&ll  are  quite  tender,  when 
serve  with   toasted  bread. 

Take  two  ounces  of  rice,  pick  it  clean  and 
^e  Soup,  wash  it  in  several  waters  till  no  dirt  remains. 
Blanch  it  in  boiling  water  and  'drain  it.  Then 
take  some  nice  broth,  season  it  well,  throw  ihe  rice  in, 
and  let  it  boil;  but  not  so  as  to  be  much  done;  for 
if  it  breaks,  the  appearance  is  spoilt. 

Peel  and  wash  well  four  dozen    sticks  of  rhu- 

JiAuiarb       barb,    blanch    it   in   hot    water    three    or   four 

Soup.         minutes,   drain    it    on    a    sieve,    and  put   it  in 

a    stewpan  with  two   ounces  of   lean    ham,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY*  79 

a  good  bit  of  butter*  Let  it  stew  gently  over  a  slow  fire 
till  tender;  then  put  in  two  quarts  of  good  conso'mme, 
boil  about  fifteen  minutes,  skim  off  all  the  fat,  add  two  or 
three  ounces  of  bread  crumbs ;  season  with  salt  and  cay« 
enne  pepper,  'pass  it  through  a  tammis,  and  serve  up  with 
fried   bread. 

Make  a  stock  with  either  veal  or  mutton. 
Turnip  only  be  cautious  that  it  is  clean,  and  clear, 
Soup.  not  greasy.     Let   the  turnips  be   only  sufficiently 

boiled  to  rub  smoothly  through  a  tammis, 
coarse  doth,  or  hair  sieve;  add  a  little  sugar,  and  a  suf- 
ficient quantity  of  arrowroot  or  pounded  rice  flour  to 
thicken  it;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Mushrooms,  if 
fresh,  may  be  boiled  in  stock,  but  they  must  be  of  the 
button  sort,  or  the  stalks  of  mushrooms  very  nicely 
cleaned. 

Prepare  a    stock    of  fish    or    meat,  fia- 

Praum,  Cray-      voured     with     an    onion,    some     parsley,  a 

fish  or  Shrimp    little  thyme     and     black     pepper,     to   each 

Soup.       ^        quart    allow   a    pint  or    more  of  fish,   that 

have    been    boiled    in    a    little  water  with 

salt  and  vinegar,  remove    and   save    the  shells,    pound  up 

one  half  of  the  fish  with  the  crumb    of  a  roll   or  the  same 

quantity  of  panada,   and  moisten    this    with    the  liquor  in 

which  the  fish  were  boiled,   by    first   pouring    it  over  the 

shells  in  a  sieve,  then   add    gradually  the    stock  seasoned 

with  some  anchovy,  and    lime  juice;    or     vinegar.     If  not 

thick    enough,    mix  a   pat    of  batter,    rolled    in    flour  or 

arrowroot,  set  the   soup   on   the   side  of  the    fire,   add  the 

remaining  fish,   chopped    to  a  proper  size,    with    the   tails 

of  the  cray-fish,   and  spawn,   if  any. 

Skin  and  ^lit  the  head,  then  take  the  brains 

Sheets  head  out,   and    soak    it    in    water    all  night;     put 

Sovp.  five  quarts  of  water  to   it    (after  having  taken 

it  out  of  the  water  in  which   it   was   soaked) 


Digitized  by 


Google 


80  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMT 

and  boil  till  the  scum  rises  to  the  top,  which  most  be 
taken  off ;  then  add  an  onion,  carrot,*  and  turnip,  and  let 
it  simmer  for  three  hours,  or  till  the  meat  is  quite 
tender.  Then  take  out  the  head,  and  thicken  the  broth 
with  a  little  oatmeal,  pearl  barley,  or  rice  flour,  boil- 
ing it  about   ten  minutes. 

Beef  one   seer,  rice  a  quarter  of  a  pound. 

Beef  Soup.      potatoes,  turnips,  and  onions,   sliced,   of    each 

three;   add    pepper    and   salt.     Boil   in    eight 

pints  of  water  until  the   scum  rises,  which   must  be  taken 

off;   then  simmer  until   it  is  reduced  to   six  pints. 

Are  essentially  neessary  to  some  soups 
Force-meat  and  most  made  dishes.  The  chief  art  in 
or  Farces  compounding  them  consists  in  due  propor- 
tions of  the  materials  employed,  and  the  care 
taken  to  make  them  well,  so  that  no  particular  flavour 
preponderates;  much  depends  upon  the  savouriness  of  the 
dish  to  which  a  zest  is  to  be  added  :  some  only  requiring 
a  delicate  farce,  others  a  full  and  high  seasoned.  As  Kit- 
chener observes,  ''that  which  would  be  used  for  turkey 
would  be  insipid  with  turtle,"  therefore,  the  great  neces- 
sity of  attending  to  the  proper  seasoning  proportions  and 
consistency. 

"When  the  force-meat  is  made  of  fowl,  there  is  one-third 
fowl,  one-third  panada,  and  one-third  of  marrow,  kidney 
fat,  veal  udder  or  butter.  This  is  the  French  method,  but 
whatever  kind  of  fat  is  used  the  proportion  is  a  third, 
the  seasoning  should  be  the  same  as  that  used  in  the 
dish,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  cayenne  and  mixed 
trufile  or  savory  powder  to  raise  it.  "When  the  propor- 
tions are  made,  they  are  all  to  be  put  in  a  mortar  with 
the  minced  sweet  herbs  that  have  been  cooked  in  butter, 
white  pepper  with  spices,  and  pounded  together  with  a  raw  egg 
beat  up  and  dropped  in  with  a  little  water  by  degrees,  ' 
until  the  whole  forms   a    fine  paste.    Test   it    by  rolling  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AXD    COOKERY.  81 

little  bit  in  flour,  and  poach  it  in  boiling  waler  or  the 
fryingpan;  if  it  is  too  stiff,  put  a  little  more  water  into 
the  mortar,  and  beat  it  again,  and  if  too  soft,  add  ano- 
ther egg,  or  more.  The  balls  must  never  be  made  larger 
than  a  common  marble,  and  should  be  either  fried  or 
boiled  according  to  the  sauce  in  which  they  are  served ; 
previous  to  frying  or  dressing,  roll  them  in  a  little  fine 
flour. 

White'  meats  with  ham,  tongue,  &c.  are  generally  used 
for  fowl^  veal,  rabbits,  and  sometimes  for*fish;  the  pro- 
portions  never  vary,   being   always   by   thirds. 

If  two  meats  are  used,  such  as  fowl  and  tongue,  these 
together  only  make  one-third  of  the  farce.  Fish,  fruit  or 
vegetables,  the  same.  The  balls  when  made,  may  be  kept 
in  clarified   dripping  or  butter,  and  warmed  when  required. 

To  prepare  force-meat,  take  your  meat,  clean  it  from 
all  sinews,  cut  it  in  slices,  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  and 
make  into  a  ball;  then  take  a  calfs  udder  and  boil 
it;  when  it  is  done,  clean  it  nicely,  cut  it  also  into 
slices,  pound  it  in  a  mortar  until  it  can  be  rubbed 
through  a  sieve.  All  that  passes  through  must  be 
made  into  a  ball  of  the  same  size  as  the  meat ;  then 
make  the  panada  as  follows— soak  crumbs  of  bread  well 
in  milk,  then  drain  ofif  all  the  latter,  and  put  them  into 
a  stewpan  with  a  little  white  broth;  then  take  a  little 
butter,  a  small  slice  of  ham,  some  parsley,  a  clove,  a  few 
shallots,  a  little  mace  and  some  mushrooms;  put  these  in 
a  stewpan  and  fry  them  gently  on  the  fire.  When  done, 
moisten  with  a  spoonful  of  broth,  let  it  boil  gently  for 
some  time,  and  drain  the  gravy  over  the  panada  through 
a  sieve,  then  place  the  panada  on  the  fire,  and  reduce 
it,  stirring  it  carefully.  When  dry,  put  in  a  small 
piece  of  butter,  and  let  it  dry  further,  adding  the 
yolks .  of  two  eggs ;  let  it  cool  on  a  clean  plate  and 
use  as  wanted*  in  the  same  proportions  as  the  two 
other  articles. 

Crumbs     of  bread  soaked    in    milk,     and   strained,    may 


Digitized  by 


Google 


\ 


8S  INDIAN  Bonsnc  ICOXOHY 

be  nsed    instead  of    panada,    and    fat    or    butter  for    the 
calves'  udder. 


Pound  some  veal  in  a  marble  mortar,  rub 
For  Turtle,        it  through  a    sieve    with    as  much    of  the 
JUoei  Turtle,      udder  as  70U  have  veal,  and  about  a  third 
^e.  the  quantity    of    butter.    Put    some    bread 

crumbs  into  a  stewpan,  moisten  them  with 
milk  add  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  shallot;  rub  them 
well  together  in  a  mortar,  till  they  form  a  smooth  paste. 
Put  it  through  a  sieve,  and  when  cold,  pound  and  mix 
all  together  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  boiled  hard ;  sea* 
son  it  with  salt,  pepper,  and  curry  powder,  or  cayenne ; 
add  to  it  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs,  rub  it  well  togeth- 
er, and  make  small  baUs.  Ten  minutes  before  the  soup  is 
ready  put  them  in. 

Take  the    liver,    two    ounces    of  beef  suet 
Stuffing  for      chopped  fine,  some  parsley,  a  little    thyme  or 
Hare.  the    peel  of  a    ripe  lime    cut  yery  thin    and 

smaU,  pepper,  salt  and  grated  nutmeg,  two 
table- spoonfuls  of  crumbs  of  bread,  a  little  milk,  the  white 
and  yolk  of  an  egg  well  beaten;  mix  the  whole  together 
and  take  care  that  it  is  of  a  proper  consistency ;  it  must 
not  be  too  thin;  put  it  into  the  hare  and  sew  it  up;  a 
shallot  rubbed  down  smooth,  or  half  a  clove  of  garHc,  will 
improve  the  flavour. 

Take  two  ounces  of  lobsters,  prawns,  shrimps, 
Tuh  Force'        oysters,  or  of  any  fish,  clean  and  chop  it  up, 
meat.  put  it  into   a    mortar  with  two  table-spoon- 

fuls  of  fresh  butter,  some  bread  crumbs  soak- 
ed in  milk,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  boiled  bard,  one  an- 
chovy, some  grated  lemon  peel,  and  parsley  chopped  fine; 
season  with  pepper,  salt  and  allspice,  and  bind  the  whole 
with  the  white  and  yolk  of  an  egg,  or  more  if  necessary. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


•  ANB    COOKXRY.  83 

Take    foui    table-spooufuls  of    clean    picked 

StvgmgfoT     mairow    or  beef    suet,    the    same   quantity   of 

Tealy  Tver-  bread  crumbs^  a  tea-spoonful  of  chopped  pars- 

iby,  lofwlj  ley,   thyme,  a ,  small  white   onion,  half  a  nut- 

ifc.  meg,  grated  lemon  peel,  pepper,  salt,  and  the 

yolks   of  two  eggs;  mix  it  well  in  a  mortar; 

when  ready  secure  it  in  the  veal  or    poultry,   either  with 

a  skewer,   or  sew  it  in  with  thread. 
If  made  into    balls  or  sausages,  roll  them  into  a  proper 

shape^   dust  them  with  flour  and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown; 

they  are*  an  excellent  garnish  in  this  way  for  roast  poultry ; 

cutlets,    &c. 

These  may  also  be  used  with  white  sauce,  but  then  the 
balls  must  be  boiled;  put  them  into  boiling  water,  and  a 
few  minutes  will  do  them. 

Take  two   or  three  ounces  of  beef  suet  and 

jMoiherfor    the   same    quantity  of    crumbs   of  bread    that 

VeaL  have  been  moistened    in  milk ;    chop    the  suet 

very  fine    together   with    parsley,   marjoram   or 

thyme,   grated  lemon  peel,   ground  mace  pepper  and    salt  ; 

pound  these  well  in  a  mortar  and  add  a  little  butter,  uniting 

the  whole  with  the  yolk  of  eggs.    A  shallot  may  be  added.* 

Ob9. — Ham,  tongue,  grated  or  potted,  may   be  added  to 

this  farce,  to    render   it  more  savory. 

Prepare    the     farce    the  same   as  for    roast 

Stuffing  for    turkey.      Clean    a    dozen  or  more  of  oysters 

hiikd  Turkey,  free    from    beard  and    add    to   the    stufBing ; 

fill  the  bird  with  this  and  sew  it  up   nicely. 

It  may  be   served  with  oyster  sauce,  parsley  and  butter 

or  plain  melted  butter ;  sometimes  roast  turkey  and  capons 

are  stuffed  with  pork  sausage   meat. 

Goose  (nr  Chop    very    fine    about    two     ounces     of 

Buck  stuffing,    onions,  of  green   sage  leaves  about  an  ounce 


Digitized  by 


Google 


84 


INDLA.N     DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 


(both  unboiled)^  four  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  the  yolk  aud 
white  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 

Boil  four  eggs  for  ten  minutes,  and  put 
Egg  Balls,  them  into  cold  water ;  when  they  are  quite 
cold,  put  the  yolks  into  a  mortar  with  the 
yolk  of  a  raw  egg,  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour,  the  same  of 
chopped  parsley,  a  spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little  black  pepper, 
or  cayenne;  rub  them  well  together,  roll  them  into  small 
balls  (as  they  swell  in  boiling)  ;  boil  them  a  couple  of  jninutes. 

Materials  used  for  Forcemeat^   Stuffing,  ^e. 
Spirits  of 


Common  thyme. 

Lemon  thyme. 

Orange  thyme. 

Sweet  marjoram. 

Summer  and 

Sage. 

Tarragon. 

Chervil. 

Winter  Savory. 

Basil. 

Bay-leaf. 

/ 

Bomet. 

< 

Fresh  and  Green, 

or  in  dried  Powder, 

Truffles  and  Mo- 

Allspice. 

Dressed  tongue. 

Capers  and    Pic- 

rells. 

Ham. 

kles. 

Mushroom  pow- 

Nutmegs. 

Bacon. 

(Minoed,  or  pow- 

der. 

dered.) 

Garlic. 

Maoe. 

Shrimps. 

Zest. 

Soup  herb  pow- 

Cloves. 

Oysters. 

der. 

Leeks. 

Curry  powder. 

Lobsters. 

Lemon  peel. 

Cinnamon. 

Crabs. 

Onions. 

Cayenne. 

Prawns. 

Eshallot. 

Ginger. 

Anchovy. 

Savory  powder.* 

Black  or  White 
pepper. 

, 

Substances. 

Flour. 

Boiled  onions. 

Mutton. 

Parboiled    sweet 

Crumbsof  potatoes.  Parsley. 

Beef. 

bread. 

Mashed  potatoes. 

Spinach. 

Veal    suet    or 

Veal  minced  and 

Yolks    of    hard 

Marrow. 

pounded.  Pot- 

Eggs. 

Calfs  udder  or 

ted  meats,  &c. 

brains. 

♦  Stvory  powder,  dried  parsley,  winter  savory,  sweet  maijoram,  lemon  thyme,  of 
each  two  ouuces  :  lemon  poaL  cut  very  thin  and  dried,  and  sweet  ba*il,  an  ounce  of 
each;  pound  the  whole  and  pass  through  a  sieve,  and  keep  in  a  bottle  closely  stopped. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKEKY.  85 

Liquids. 
Meat  gravy,    lemon    juice,    syrup  of    lemons,  essence  of 
anchovy,  the   various  vegetables,  essence  of  mushrooms,  cat- 
sup, the  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs,    wines,  and    the  essence 
of  spices. 

In    the  highest    state    of  perfection,    they 
To  dry  Sweet    should  be  cut  just  before   flowering,  as  they 
Herbu  have   then    the    finest  flavour    and    perfume. 

Take  care  they  are  gathered  dry,  and  cleaned 
well  from  dirt  and  dust.  Cut  off  the  roots,  separate  the 
bunches  into  smaller  ones,  and  dry  them  in  a  warm  place 
in  the  shade  or  before  a  common  fire  ;  the  sooner  they  are 
dried  by  these  means  their  flavour  will  be  best  preserved 
rather  than  by  drying  them  in  the  heat  of  the  sun,  which 
deprives  them  of  their  colour,  the  retaining  which  is  the 
best  test  afforded  of  their  being  properly  preserved ;  after 
which  put  them  in  bags  and  lay  them  in  a  dry  place.  But 
the  best  way  to  pr^erve  the  flavour  of  aromatic  herbs, 
is  to  pick  off  leaves  as  soon  they  are  dried,  and  to  pound 
them  and  sift  through  a  fine  sieve  ;  keeping  them  in  well 
closed  stopper  bottles  with  brown  paper  pasted  round  them. 

BROTHS. 
Take  a  kunckle  of  veal,   wash  it  clean,  and 
Teal,  crack   the   bones   in  two  or  three  places  ;  put 

it  into  a  stewpan  and  cover  with  cold  water; 
watch  and  stir  it  up  well ;  the  moment  it  begins  to  simmer, 
skim  it  carefully,  then  add  a  little  more  cold  water  to  make 
the  remaining  scum  rise,  and  skim  it  a^ain  :  when  the  scum 
has  done  rising  and  the  surface  of  the  broth  is  quite  clear, 
put  in,  cut  and  cleaned,  a  moderate  sized  carrot,  a  head 
of  celery,  two  turnips  and  two  onions  ;  cover  it  close,  set 
it  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  very  gently 
(so  as  not  to  waste  the  broth)  for  four  or  five  hours,  ac- 
cording to  the  quantity  of .  meat ;  strain  through  a  sieve 
or  tammis  ;   if  to  keep,   put  in   a  cool   place. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Ob  INDIAN    DOUESTIC    ECONOUT 

Obi»— This  is  the  foundation  of  all  sorts  of  sonps^  brown 
or   whitCj  made  of  beef|  mutton  or  veal. 

Clean  and  divide  the  chicken  into  quarters. 
Chicken  Broth,  after  having  removed  the  skin  and  mmp ; 
add  a  blade  of  mace,  a  small  onion  sliced, 
and  ten  white  pepper  corns,  with  a  quart  of  water.  Simmer 
till  the  broth  be  suffidentlj  reduced  and  of  a  pleasant 
flavour,  remove  the  fat  as  it  rises,  season  wit)i  salt,  a  little 
chopped  parsley  may  be  added. 

Put  on  the  broth    in    a  clean    saucepan. 

To  clarify        beat  up  the  white  of  an  egg,  add  it  to  the 

Broth.         broth   and  stir  it  with  a  whisk ;  when  it  has 

boiled  a    few  minutes,    strain    it  through    a 

tammis  or  napkin. 

Broth,  if  carefully  skimmed,  will  be   clear  enough   with- 
out  clarifying,   which  iu  a  great   degree  impairs  the  flavour. 

Is    the    fat    skimmings    of     the    broth    pot, 

Pot'tqp        which  when  fresh   and   clear,  answer  as  well  as 

butter  for  basting  all  meats,  with  the    exception 

of  game  and  poultry,   but   if  used    for   common  firys,    &c., 

require  to   be  clarified* 

Is  that  in   which  poultry   or  meat  has   been 

Pot  liquor    boiled,   and   may    be    easily    converted    into  a 

plain  wholesome    soup    with    the    addition     of 

the  trimmings  and  parings  of  meat,  game    or  poultry,  that 

you  may  happen   to  be  using. 

Take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  the  neck  or 
Mutton  Broth  loin  of  mutton,  remove  off  the  skin  and 
for  the  sick,  fat,  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan,  cover  it 
with  cold  water  a  quart  to  a  pound  of 
meat,  let  it  simmer  very  gently  and  skim  it  well,  cover 
it  up  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire  where  it  may  remaia 


Digitized 


by  Google 


AND   COOKERY.  87 

gently  stewing  for  aboat  an  hour,  then  strain  it  off.  It 
should  be  allowed  to  become  cold,  when  all  the  fatty  par- 
ticles floating  on  the  surface  become  hard  and  are  easily 
taken  off?  the  settlings  falling  to  the  bottom. 

Take  two  pounds  of  mutton;  put  it  in  a 
Mulian  Broth,  stewpan,  and  cover  it  with  cold  water ;  when 
the  water  becomes  lukewarm^  pour  it  ofi^ 
akim  it  weH,  and  then  put  it  back  with  four  pints  more 
water,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt^  a  table-spoonful  of  grits  or 
coarse  flour,  and  an  onion;  set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  and  when 
you  have  removed  the  scum,  put  in  two  or  three  peeled 
turnips  cut  in  half,  let  it  continue  to  simmer  slowly  for 
two  hours,  and  strain  through  a  clean  cloth   or  sieve. 

OU. — ^You  may  thicken  this  broth  with  rice  flour,  rice, 
pearl  barley,  wheat  flour,  sago  or  arrowroot.  Sprinkle  a 
Uttle  chopped  parsley   into   it. 

Scald  the    head   in  hot  water,   and  scrape 

Sieq/siead     off   aU  the    hair  with    a  sharp    knife;  when 

Broti.  cleared  of   the  wool    divide  it  like  a  calf  s- 

head,  then    put  it   into    the    saucepan    with 

water    sufficient    to    cover  it,    a  couple  of  onions,  a  little 

vinegar  and  some  salt;   as  the  scum  rises,   take  it  off. 

When  the  water  begins  to  boil  let  it  after  only  simmer 
until  the  head  is  thoroughly  done — set  the  broth  to  cool, 
remove  all  the  fat,  and  strain  it,  then  put  it  over  the  fire 
witli  an  onion  quartered,  a  carrot  cut  into  slices,  a  small 
turnip,  and  a  little  parsley.  The  moment  it  boils  sprin* 
kle  in  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice,  washed  and  dried. 
Season  to  your  taste,  and  let  the  soup  stew  until  the  rice 
is  done— the  same  quantity  'of  pearl  barley  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  rice;  if  a  thick  barley  soup  be  desired,  add  a 
little  arrowroot  or  a  mashed   potatoe. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTER  VI. 


FISH. 


Fish  of  every  kind  are  in  the  best  season '  some  time 
before  they  begin  to  spawn,  and  are  not  good  for  some  time 
after  they  have  done  spawning. 

Sea  fish  should  be  boiled  in  clear  water,  to  which  salt 
most  be  added  in  the  proportion  of  two  table-spoonfuls  to 
a  gallon.  To  make  your  fish  firm  and  to  keep  it  of  a  good 
colour,  always  boil  it  in  clear  fresh  water,  and  be  careful 
that  it  is  nicely  cleaned  and  washed  and  no  particle  of  blood 
remaining  about  it ;  then  put  it  into  the  kettle  with  salt 
and  water,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  fast,  remove  any  scum 
that  may  appear,  and  slacken  it,  letting  it  boil  gently  so 
that  it  may  be  done  throughout ;  else  the  outside  will  be 
done  too  much,  whilst  the  inner  wiU  be  raw.  The  time  it 
will  take  to  boil  must  depend  upon  the  size  of  the  fish,  and 
the  cook  here  must  be  the  judge.  Fish  should  never  be 
kept  in  the  water  after  it  is  once  ready,  but  remove,  and 
kept  warm  by  steam ;  this  may  be  done  by  placing  it  in  a 
cloth  over  the  kettle,  or  else  in  a  dry  stewpan  in  a  Bain 
Marie ;  by  these  means  only  its  flavour  and  quality  can  be 
preserved. 

The  Pomplet,  black  and  white,  is  the  most  esteemed  on 
the  western  coast  of  India,  and  is  not  unlike  a  small  tur- 
bot,  but  of  a  more  delicate  flavour.  The  black  seems  to 
be  considered  by  epicures  as  the  finest.  The  other  fish 
are  Tockcore  (scarce),  Sabb  or  salmon  fish,  Bobal,  the  seer 
fish,  mullet,  soles,  and  some  others  all  very  good.  The 
fiumbalo  is  the  favorite  with  the  natives,  and  caught  in 
immense  numbers ;   they   are  dried  for  consumption  as  well 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY  AND  COOKEKY.  89 

as  the  Pomplet,  and  furnish  a  principal  article  of  food. 
Cray  fish,  crabs,  oysters,  limpets,  prawns  and  other  shell- 
fish are  canght  in  great  abundance.  Turtle  are  sometimes 
brought  to  market  from   the   adjacent  islands. 

In  Calcutta,  fish  are  equally  plentiful  at  particular  sea- 
sons, and  are  most  abundant  at  the  latter  end  and  com- 
mencement of  the  year,  when  the  following  are  procura' 
hie;  Becktee,  Tobeesah  or  mango  fish,  Moonjee  or  mul- 
lets, Booe,  Cutla,  Mirgael,  Shoil,  Salleah,  Baunspattah, 
Quoye,  or  carp,  Mangoor,  Cochea  or  eels,  Baleah,  Pairsah, 
Byue,  Khankeelah,  Bholah,  Singhee,  Phankal,  Chungnah, 
Chingree  or  prawns,  Kaikra  or  crabs,  turtle  and  others  of 
inferior  note. 

See   that  your    fish  is   perfectly   fresh,  clean 
F«A,  to  pre-   and  dry  it  well,  then  rub   a  little   moist   sugar 
9erve,  and  salt  over  the  throat   fins  and  belly,  hang 

it  up  in  a  cool  place  with  a  cloth  round 
it.  Fish  also  cut  into  strips  and  hung  out  in  the  sun 
to  drj,  after  being  rubbed  with  sugar  and  salt,  will  keep 
for  a  length  of  time,  provided  it  is  not  allowed  to  get 
damp.  Two  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  with  a  little  salt,  are  suf- 
ficient for  a  fish  of  eight  or  ten  pounds.  If  to  be  kip% 
pered,  a  little  saltpetre  is  to  be  mixed  into  the  sugar, 
and  to  be  rubbed,  finished,  and  hung  as  other  kippers. 

Take    any   small  fish,    make  a  good  strong 
^ieUe  for        mixture   as  follows  : — (Put  into  a    stone    pan 
any  small       or  jar  a   layer   of  fish,  and  then  one   of   the 
fiih.  mixture,   and  so    on    alternately  to  the  top.) 

Two  pounds  of  salt,  three  ounces  of  bay  salt, 
one  pound  of  saltpetre,  two  ounces  of  prunella  with  a  few 
grams  of  cochineal ;  pound  all  in  a  mortar.  The  fish  should 
be  nicely  cleaned^  and  wiped  dry  before  salting ;  press  them 
down  hard,   and   cover  close. 

Clean  your  fish  well,  cut  it  into    slices,  or 
Broiled.  divide  it  in  half  if  necessary,  dry  it  thorough- 

ly in  a  clean   cloth,    rub  it    over    with  sweet 

M 


Digitized  by 


Google 


90  INDIAN   BOMESnC   ECONOMY 

oil,  or  thick  melted  butter,  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over 
it ;  put  your  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire  at  some  distance ; 
"when  it  is  hot  wipe  it  clean,  rub  it  with  sweet  oil  or 
lard,  lay  the  fish  on,  and  when  done  on  one  side,  torn 
it  gently  and  broil  the  other;  when  in  a  hurry,  dry  and 
flour  the  fish  and  chalk  the  gridiron,  and  when  there  is 
any  disposition  to  stick,  loosen  them  with  a  knife,  turn 
them,  rubbing  the  gridiron  clean. 

Beat  up  two  eggs  in  half  a  pint  of  milk  ; 
Batter  for  add  to  this  six  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  and 
frying  fsL  mix  the  whole  together  gradually;  dip  the 
fish  in  it  just  before  putting  into  the  fry- 
ing-pan. This  batter  is  better  for  being  prepared  an  hour 
or  two  before  required ;  beat  it  up  again  previous  to 
the  fish  being  dipped  into  it;  or  dip  the  fish  in  milk, 
and  shake  it,  whether  whole  or  in  slices,  in  a  floured 
cloth,  and  put  them  into  the  frying-pan  well  covered  with 
fat,  pot-top  is  the  best,  giving  a  finer  colour  than  oil  or 
any  of  the  other  fats ;  when  they  are  done,  place  them 
on    a  hot  cloth    or   sieve   to  drain. 

Clean  the  fish  well,   then  take  either   some 

Native  bat-       of  the  flour   of  gram,  rice,  or  mussoor  (dhoU), 

ter  for  fry-    mix  in  it   some    garlic,  onions,   green   ginger 

ing  fsL  and   salt  well   pounded,    also   some    tyre   and 

turmeric,   which    apply    to  the  fish,  and   fry 

it   in  ghee. 

Force  any     sized     carp    or     fish  with   high 
Bate,  seasoned   farce,    brush    it  over  with  egg  and 

butter,  lay  in  a  deep  dish,  and  strew  in 
sweet  herbs  and  spices,  some  chopped  anchovies  or  essence, 
with  wine  and  stock.  Baste  it  with  this  while  baking, 
and  when  ready,  take  the  sauce  and  reduce  it  over  the 
fire, .  add  tarragon  or  lemon  vinegar,  cayenne  and  salt, 
with  a  little  sugar  according  to  the  size   or  quantity. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY*  91 

After  having   well  cleaned  your   fish,   brush 
Another.  it    all    over,  inside    as  well,    with    egg    and 

butter ;  then  sprinkle  it  with  salt,  pepper^ 
and  pounded  allspice,  and  some  chopped  sweet  herbs, 
sach  as  you  can  procure  ;  roll,  the  fish  nicely  up  in  plan* 
tain  leaves,   and  tie  them  round,  put  in    a  deep  dish  and  bake. 

Obi. — Murrell  and  Marsaier  may  be  dressed  in  any  of 
the  above  ways,  or  indeed  all  our  fine  Indian  fresh  water 
fish. 

Is    a    mode  of  dressing  fresh  water  fish  of 
Water  almost  every  description  ;  indeed  other  fish,  such 

Souciy  as   soles,  flounders,   pomfret,  &c.  may  be  similarly 

dressed.  They  must  be  fresh^  cleaned,  and  trim^ 
med.  Put  them  whole  in  a  stewpan  and  cover  with  water 
if  small,  if  large  they  must  be  cut  in  pieces ;  boil  aU  the 
parings,  add  parsley  leaves  and  roots  cut  into  shreds,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  skim  it  carefully  when  it  boils ;  take 
care  the  fish  is  not  overdone;  nothing  else  is  to  be  put 
into  it,  as  its  excellence  rests  in  its  simple  cookery.  Send 
it  up  in  a  deep  dish  or  tureen  with  its  gravy,  which  should 
be  rich  and  clear,  and  serve  with  brown  bread  and  butter. 

This  fish  is  generally  procurable  in  the  large 

Corp.  rivers,   mostly   all  the  year   round,    which  they 

leave   at    the  commencement    of  the    rains    to 

spawn,  and  are    found  in  the   gravelly  beds    of  the  tributary 

streams,  of  a  very  large  size* 

Scale  and  dean  your  carp,  reserving  the  liver 
To  boil.  and  roe ;  take  half  a  pint  of  vinegar   or  more, 

according  to  the  size  of  your  fish,  add  as  much 
water  as  will  cover  it,  a  little  horse-radish  root  (the  Moo- 
risga),  an  onion  or  two  cut  into  slices,  a  little  salt,  and 
»me  thyme,  marjoram  or  other  sweet  herbs;  boil  the  fish 
in  this  liquor,  and  make  a  sauce  as  follows : — Strain  some 
of  the  liquor  the  fish  has  been  boiled  in,  and  put  to  it 
the  liver   minced,   a  pint   of  port  >vine  or   chrtt,   two   or 


Digitized  by 


Google 


9fi  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  XCONOMY 

three  heads  of  shallots  chopped,  or  yonng  green  omons, 
a  table-spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce,  or  else  two  anchovies 
pounded,  some  salt,  black  pepper,  and  cayenne,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  soy.  Boil  and  strain  it,  thicken  ifc  with  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  pour  over  the  carp  hot.  Oanush  it 
with  the  roe    fried,  cut  lemon  and  parsley. 

Obs. — Carp  eae  not    so   fine  flavoured   when    full   of  roe, 
they   are  then    considered    out   of  condition. 

Put  your  roes  into  fresh  water  for  half  an 
Carp  Roes.  hour,  change  the  water,  and  let  them  be  placed 
on  the  side  of  the  fire  to  whiten,  then  put 
them  into  another  saucepan  with  boiling  water  and  a  little 
salt,  let  them  boil  and  take  them  off  the  fire.  Have  in 
another  pan,  four  or  more  spoonfuls  of  well  seasoned  stock. 
Put  in  the  roes,  let  them  simmer  up  once  or  twice,  skim, 
thicken  with  a  little  flour,  and  squeeze  a  little  lime  juice 
over  them.     Serve  hot. 

When  the  fish  has  been  properly  cleaned  and 
To  Steiv.  washed,  lay  it  in  a  stewpan  with  half  a  pint  of 
port  or  claret,  and  a  quart  of  good  gravy,  a 
large  sliced  onion,  some  dozen  or  so  of  whole  black  pepper, 
the  same  of  allspice,  and  a  few  cloves,  or  a  bit  of  mace ; 
cover  the  fish  kettle  close,  and  let  it  stew  gently  for  twenty 
minutes,  or  according  to  the  size  of  the  fish.  Bemovethe 
fish  and  put  it  on  a  hot  dish,  strain  the  liquor  and  thicken 
it  with  fiour,  and  season  it  Vith  pepper  and  salt,  anchovy 
sauce,  mushroom  catsup  and  a  little  chilli  vinegar;  give 
this  a  boil  up  and  pour  it  over  the  fish.  If  there  be  more 
sauce   than  the  dish  will  hold,  send  the  rest  up  separately. 

There  are  of  this  kind  of  fish,  two  descriptions  ; 

£eh.  a  long  pointed-nosed  eel,  and  a    round-mouthed 

one.    The  latter  is  esteemed  most  by  the  natives, 

and  sometimes  is  so  fat    as  to  be  disagreeable  and  ranoid ; 

.  the  others  are  never  so* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  93 

Clean  them  well,  cut  them  into  pieces  of 
To  Fry,  three  or  four  inches  long,  and  then  score  across 
in  two  or  three  places.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salty  and  dust  them  with  flour,  or  dip  them  into  an  egg  nicely 
beaten  up,  and  sprinkle  them  with  finely  grated  egg  crumbs ; 
fiy  them  in  fresh  lard,  dripping  or  ghee,  and  let  them 
dry  before  the  fire;   dress  the  roe  in  the  same  way. 

After    they   are  cleaned    and    prepared,    score 
BraiL  and   dip  them   into  melted   butter;  sprinkle  over 

them  finely    minced  parsley    mixed  with    pepper 
and  salt  and  crumbs   of  bread;    curl  and   broil  them. 

Clean  them  well,  skin,  wash,  and  cut  off  their 
&«/.  heads,   curl    and  put    them  in  boiling    salt  and 

water  with  a  little  vinegar,  garnish  with  parsley- 
sauce,  parsley   and  butter. 

Prepare  them  as  for  frying,   adding  chopped 
Sj^ch  cock,     parsley   with    the  egg   and  crumbs,   broil  them 
over  a  clear  fire,  or   fry    them.    The  sauce  is 
melted   butter  and  parsley,  or  catsup   in  melted   butter. 

Clean  and  skin  the  eels,  wipe  them  dry,  and 
Toi^ew.  cut  into  pieces  about  four  inches  long;  take 
two  onions,  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  some  thyme, 
a  little  mace,  pepper,  and  a  pint  of  gravy  and  two  glasses 
of  port  wine,  and  the  same  of  vinegar;  let  all  boil  together 
for  ten  minutes ;  take  out  the  eels,  reduce  the  sauce  a  little, 
strain  and  thicken  with  a  little  flour  mixed  in  water;  add 
two  spoonfuls  of  mushroom  catsup  and  one  of  essence ,  of 
anchovies;  put  in  the  eels  and  stew  gently  till  tender. 
Oi«. — Eels  may  be  roasted  with  a  common  stuffing  if  large. 

Take  your  eels,  skin,  wash  and  trim  off  the 

Ed  pie.  skin;  cut  them    into  pieces  three    inches  long, 

and  season    well    with  pepper    and  salt   (leave 

oat  the    heads    and    tails).    Add  a  little    clear  broth    and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


91  IKOUN  DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

cover  it  with  paste;  rub  the  paste  over  with  a  paste  brush 
or  feather  dipped  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg^  bake  it,  and  when 
done,  make  a  hole  in  the  centre  and  pour  in  through  a 
funnel  the  following  sauce:— The  trimmings  boiled  in  half 
a  pint  of  white  stock,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt  and  lemon 
juice,  thickened  wth  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  strain, 
and  add  it  boiling  hot. 

After    it    has    been     perfectly   cleaned,    tie   it 
CodJUhto    up  and    dry   with   a    cloth,   put  a  good   proper- 
boil.  tion    of  salt   in   the    water,   and    when  it   boilsj 

remove  the  scum,  put  in  the  fish  and  keep 
it  boiling  very  fast  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  Serve 
with  the  roe  cut  in  slices  and  fried;  garnish  with  parsley 
and  horse-radish  sauce,  melted  butter,  oyster,  or  anchovy 
and  butter.     Mustard  is  used  by  some  persons. 

Cut     the  fish    either    in   fillets  or  slices;   fry 
To  stew  in     them    either   white  or  brown,    and     add  equal 
slices,  quantities  of  rich  stock  and  white  or  red  wine, 

a  large  spoonful  of  butter  rubbed  in  flour, 
some  spices,  sweet  h^rbs,  and  salt ;  lay  in  the  fish,  and  let 
it  stew  very  slowly.  When  there  is  just  time  to  cook 
some  oysters,  put  them  in  with  their  juice.  If  brown,  add 
a  little  catsup  ;  if  white  a  little  lemon — ^garnish  with  parsley, 
the  roe,   liver,   lemon  or  pickled  cucumber. 

Obs. — Or  as   stewed  carp,  they  may  be   dressed. 

Cut    a  fresh  cod   into  slices    or  steaks,  lay 

To  crimp       them    for  three  hours  in  salt  and  water,  adding 

cod.  a  glass  of  vinegar ;   when  they  may  be  boiled, 

fried,  or   broiled. 

Obs. — Any  other  large  fish  may  be  done  in   the  same  way. 

Wash  them  well  several  times  ;  pull  off  all 
Cod  sounds,    the  black  and  dirty   skin  ;  blanch  or  soak  them 
in  warm    water  till    cold,  then    boil  in    milk 
and  water^  and  serve  on  a  napkin  with  egg  sauce. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND     COOKERY.  95 

Prepare  as  for  boiling ;  only,  they  must 
Boasted  or  not  be  quite  done.  When  cold,  make  •  a 
baied.  force  meat  of  bread  crumbs,  butter,  salt,  nut- 
meg, white  pepper,  and  some  chopped  oys- 
ters ;  and  beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eg^s  to  bind  it.  Lay 
over  the  sounds,  roll  them  up,  and  fasten  with  a  small 
skewer ;  baste  them  with  melted  butter,  and  roll  them  in 
finely  grated  bread  crumbs  with  pepper  and  salt;  roast 
them  in  a  Dutch  oven  or  bake  them;  turn  and  baste  them 
with  melted  butter,  and  strew  over  them  bread  crumbs 
as  before.  When  done,  and  of  a  nice  brown,  serve  them 
with  oyster  sauce  in  a  dish. 

After  boiling  them  as  above,  drain  and  dust 
Broiled.  them  with  flour,  rub  them,  over  with  butter, 
season  with  white  pepper  and  salt,  and  broil 
them.  Serve  with  the  following  sauce  put  over  them : 
a  table-spoonful  of  catsup,  half  a  one  of  soy  and  a  little 
red  pepper  with  melted  butter;  heat  and  pour  over  them. 

On   the    Western    Coast    they    are    only  of  a 
Cra6g»  middling    size,    and    not     much     esteemed:    in- 

land,   they    are     miserably    small,    and     seldom 
worth  the  dressing  for  table. 

Wash    them    well,  tie    their  claws,   and  put 

To  bail  them    on  in  boiling  water  and    salt.    Boil    for 

Crabs  or      twenty    minutes    or    half    an    hour,   according 

Lobsters,      to    their    size:    rub    them    over    with  a  little 

ghee  or    butter,   and   lay    them    upon    their 

daws  till   they  become  cold. 

After   the  crabs   are   boiled,  break  the   claws. 

Dressed        pick     out   all   the    meat    from     them    and  the 

Crais.      breast,    taking    the  roe  along  with  a    little   of 

the  inside.     Keep   the    shells  whole,     mince  up 

the  meat,   season  it  with  grated  nutmeg,  pepper,   salt,  and 

wine;    mix   in  some  bread    crumbs  and    butter,    according 


Digitized  by 


Google 


9b  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

to  the  size  of  the  crab ;  put  it  in  a  saucepan  to  heat,  stir- 
ring it  all  the  time.  "When  thoroughly  heated,  fill  the 
shell,  but  see  that  they  have  been  washed  clean;  put  a 
little  puff  paste  round  the  edges.    Brown  them  in  an  oven. 

Pick  all  the  meat  from  the   bodies    and 

To   butter    Crabs,  claws,  mince   it   small,   and  put  it  into  a 

Lobsters  or  Cray  saucepan    with  two  or  three  table-spoon- 

JisA.  fuls  of  white  wine,    one  of  lemon  pickle, 

and    three  or  four  of  rich   gravy,  a  little 

butter,    salt,   pepper   and  grated   nutmeg,   thicken    with   the 

yolks    of  two   eggs  beat   up,    and   when   quite  hot,  put  into 

the    shells.     Garnish    with   an   edging  of  bread. 

Take   out    all  the  meat  of  either  a  large 
Cutlets     of         crab  or  lobster,   mince  it  and  add  to  it  two 
Crabs  or  ounces   of    butter   which   has  been    brown- 

Lobsters.  ed  with  two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  seasoned 

with  a  little  pepper,  salt  and  cayenne.  Add 
about  half  a  pint  of  strong  stock,  stir  it  over  the  fire 
until  quite  hot;  put  it  in  separate  table-spoonfuls  on  a 
large  dish ;  when  cold,  make  them  into  the  shape  of  cut- 
lets, brush  over  them  the  beaten  yolk  of  eggs,  dip  them 
into  grated  crumbs,  and  fry  them  of  a  light  brown  colour 
in  clarified  ghee  or  beef  dripping,  place  them  on  a  dish 
with  a  little  fried   parsley  in  the   centre. 

The  thickest  part  must  be  chosen  and 
Salt-fish  pie.  put  in  cold  water  to  soak  the  night  before 
wanted ;  then  boil  it  well,  take  it  up,  take 
away  the  bones  and  skin,  and  if  it  is  good  fish,  it  will 
be  in  fine  layers ;  set  it  on  a  fish  drainer  to  get  cold.  In 
the  meantime,  boil  four  eggs  hard,  peel,  and  slice  them 
very  thin,  the  same  quantity  of  onion  sliced,  then  line  the 
bottom  of  a  pie  dish  with  force-meat  or  a  layer  of  pota> 
toes  sliced  thin ;  then  a  layer  of  onions,  then  of  fish,  and 
of  eggs,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  full;  season  each  lay- 
er with  a  little   pepper ;    then   mix  a  tea-spoonful   of  made 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  97 

mustard^  the  same  of  essence  of  anchovy,  a  little  mushroom 
catsap  in  a  gill  of  water;  put  it  in  the  dish;  then  put 
on  the  top  an  ounce  of  fresh  butter,  cover  it  with  puiF 
paste  and  bake  it  one  hour.  All  fish  for  making  pies 
should  be  dressed  first;  this  is  the  most  economical  way, 
as  what  is  boiled,  one  day  will  make  excellent  pies  or 
patties  the  next;  if  you  intend  it  for  pies,  take  the  skin 
off  and  the  bones  out,  lay  your  fish  in  layers,  and  season 
each  layer  with  equal  quantities  of  pepper,  allspice,  mace^ 
and  salt,  till  the  dish  is  full. 

Cod  sounds  for  a  pie  should  be  soaked  at  least  twenty- 
four  hours,  then  well  washed  and  put  on  a  cloth  to  dry ; 
put  in  a  stewpan  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  four  ounces 
of  sKced  onions,  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown,  then  put  in  a 
small  table-spoonful  of  flour,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  boiling 
water.  When  smooth,  put  in  the  cod  sounds,  and  season 
them  with  a  little  pepper,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy,  and  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon ;  stir  it  well  together,  put  it  in  a  pie-dish,  cover  it 
with  paste  and  bake  it  one  hour. 

Obs. — God  sounds  are  seldom  brought  to  India  unless 
by  order ;  they  are  packed  salted  in  small  kegs,  and  keep 
very  well.  They  cost  in  England  from  seven  to  ten  shillings 
the  keg.  The  sounds  require  washing  and  soaking  previous 
to  being  boiled  or  dressed,  and  are  served  with  egg  sauce  over 
them. 

Boil  four  eggs  hard ;  when  quite  cold,  care- 
lobiter  or        fully  open  and  take  out  the  yolks ;  mash  them 
CrayJUh      with  a  fork;    then  add   two    tea-spoonfuls  of 
talad.  mustard,  and  the  same  quantity  of  salt,  some 

white  pepper,  and  a  little  red;  mix  these 
vdl  together;  then  add  four  dessert  spoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar, and  one  of  lemon  pickle ;  to  this  mixture  when  quite 
smooth,  add  the  spawn  of  the  fish  and  half  a  pint  of  cream. 
Cut  the  meat  (of  the  boiled  fish)  into  bits,  and  stir  it  in 
the    sauce    with  a  white    onion  nicely    minced.    Cut  your 

N 


Digitized  by 


Google 


98  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

lettuce  with  any  other  salading  and  place  upon  the  lobster^ 
and   garnish  with  the  whites  of  the  egg  sliced. 

Make  a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs,  suet, 
Murrell baied.fvixsley,  lime  or  orange  peel  and  egg;  fill 
the  inside  of  the  fish;  dredge  it  well  with 
flour;  and  place  it  in  a  deep  dish.  Pour  in  at  the  side  a 
tea-cup  of  rich  gravy  with  a  table-spoonful  of  vinegar,  a 
lump  of  fresh  butter,  some  pepper  and  salt;  put  the  whole 
into  a  tolerably  brisk  oven,  and  baste  the  fish  with  some 
of  the    gravy  while    baking,   or    roast  it  in  a  degchee. 

Oba, — The  fish  may  be  tied  up  in  a  plantain  leaf  and 
baked,  being  smeared  over  with  butter  previous  to  dredging 
it  with  flour. 

Is  brought  to  India  from  £urope  and  America, 
Salmon  hermetically   sealed,    pickled,  and  salted.     The 

fresh  salmon  in  canisters  may  be  eaten  either 
cold  or  hot.  After  opening  the  canister  in  which  the  salmon 
remains,  if  you  intend  serving  it  hot,  pour  off  all  the  gravy 
and  save  it  for  sauce;  put  the  canisters  into  a  saucepan  of 
water  and  let  it  boil.  When  the  salmon  is  warm,  turn 
it  carefully  out  on  a  napkin  and  serve.  Prepare  the  sauce  by 
adding  a  little  milk  and  a  roll  of  butter,  with  a  sufficiency 
of  arrowroot  or  flour  to  thicken;  anchovy  sauce  may  be 
added,  but  it  is  better  left  for  persons  to  help  themselves. 
Cold  salmon  merely  requires  to  be  turned  out  of  the  canister, 
and  served  garnished  either  with  fennel  or  sprigs  of  parsley. 
Hot  salmon  when  either  whole  or  in  large  pieces,  is  usually 
served  with  lobster  or  shrimp  sauce,  and  cucumber  sliced 
raw  and   dressed  with    pepper,  salt,     vinegar,  and  oil. 

Put   on   a  fish  kettle  with  fresh  water  enough 

Salmon        to  well  cover  the  salmon  you  are  going  to  dress, 

bailed,      or  the  salmon   will   neither  look  nor  taste  well 

(boil  the  liver   in   a  separate    saucepan);    when 

the    water     boils,  put  in  a    handful  of   salt,  take  off  the 

scum  as  soon  as  it    rises;    have  the  fish  well    washed,  put 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKSAT.  99 

it  in>  and  if  it  is   thick,   let  it  boil  very    gently   about  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  to  a   pound  of  salmon. 
Obs. — The  same  with   all  other  large  fish. 

.    Clean   the     salmon    well,    and    cut   it    into 
FresA  Salmon  slices   about  an   inch    and  a  half  thick,  dry  it 
braUed.  thoroughly  in   a   clean   cloth,  rub  it  over    with 

sweet  oil  or  thick  melted  butter,  and  sprinkle 
a  little  salt  over  it.  Put  your  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire  at 
some  distance  ;  when  it  is  hot,  wipe  it  clean,  rub  it  with 
sweet  oil  or  lard,  lay  the  salmon  on,  and  when  it  is  done 
on  one   side,  turn   it   gently  and   broil  the   other. 

Are  found  in  great  abundance  all  along  the 
Sardines  Malabar  Coast.  They  are  taken  in  casting  net?. 
The  Portugese  at  Goa  preserve  them  by  dry- 
ing ;  they  are  also  fried  like  other  small  fish,  in  ghee, 
batter,  oil,  or  crumbs  of  bread  mixed  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 
The  sardines  in  canisters  imported  from  France  are  pre- 
served both  in  butter  and  oil :  the  former  is  generally  pre- 
ferred, as  the  latter  acquires  soon  after  opening  a  rancid 
flavour ;  before  eating  they  require  washing  in  warm  water, 
or  may  be  fried  in  plantain  leaves,  or  dressed  in  a  light 
batter   and   served   hot. 

Let    the   fish    be  quite     freshly  boiled,    shell 

Potted  them   quickly,    and    just  before    they    are    put 

Prawns,      into  the  mortar  chop   them  a  little  with  a  very 

sharp  knife,  pound   them  perfectly  with   a  small 

quantity   of  fresh  butter,   mace,   and    chillies. 

Boil    them  in    plenty    of    water,  add    salt  in 
'Prawns  to   the  proportion  of  a  tea-spoonful  to  a  quart,  put 
dress.  them  in  when  it  is  boiling,   clear  off  all  the  scum 

quick  as  it  rises;  they  will  be  done  in  from 
six  to  eight  minutes  ;  turn  them  into  a  colander  or  sieve 
and  drain  them  well ;  spread  them  on  a  dish  to  cool,  and 
keep  in  a  cool   place  until  they   are  served. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


100  INDIAN  DOUESTIC  ECONOMY 

This  is  a  simple  process.    It  is  not   generally 
SArimps  to    known  to   housewives,  being    usually  performed 
bail.  before  the   articles    are  offered  for    sale.    Pre- 

pare a  saucepan  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  brisk- 
ly ;  throw  in  a  couple  of  handfuls  of  salt  and  stir  it,  and 
after  removing  the  scum,  throw  in  the  prawns  or  shrimps ; 
they  will  be  speedily  done  enough  and  float  to  the  surface ; 
take  them  up  and  empty  the  whole  into  a  colander ;  as 
soon  as  the  water  is  drained  off  wrap  them  in  a  dry  cloth, 
throwing  amongst  them  a  good  sprinkling  of  salt  whilst 
hot ;  cover  them  up  and  allow  them  to  remain  until  cold. 

When  boiled,  take  them  out  of  their   shells, 
SArimpi  to    and  season  them  with  salt,  white  pepper,  and  a 
pot.  very   little  mace  and  cloves ;  press  them  into  a 

pot ;  lay  a  little  butter  over  them,  and  bake  in 
a  slow  oven  for  'ten  minutes  ;  when  cold  cover  with  clari- 
fied butter. 


For  making  these  use  Brioche  or  puff  paste, 
Vol-au-  roll  it  half  an  inch  in  thickness,  and  cut  the 
VenL  vol-au-vent  either  according  to  the  shape  of  your 
dish,  or  with  a  fluted  cutter  about  two  inches 
in  diameter ;  have  ready  a  baking  sheet,  sprinkle  it  over 
vrtth  water,  and  put  your  vol-au-vents  on  it,  egg  them 
over  with  a  paste  brush,  cut  the  tops  round  with  the  point  of 
a  knife,  or  cutter,  dipped  in  hot  water,  making  a  ring  up- 
on the  top  of  each  but  not  deep  ;  then  bake  them  in  a  hot 
oven,  which  will  take  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  take 
them  out  and  remove  the  top  carefully  (without  breaking), 
as  also  the  soft  inside,  leaving  them  quite  empty,  when 
they  are  ready  for  use. 

Oi*. — ^These  may  be  filled  with  preparations  of  fish,  roes, 
oysters,  lobsters,  game,  &c.,  but  if  made  for  sweet  dishes, 
they  must  be  glazpd  with  pounded  sugar,  in  which  you 
may  place  cream^  marmalade,  plums,  &c. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  101 

BoU  oat  puff  paste  a  quarter  of  an  inch  ihkk, 
Oytter  cut  into  squares  with  a  knife,  sheet  eight  or 
Patties,  ten  patty  pans^  put  upon  each  a  bit  of  bread 
the  size  of  half  a  walnut*  roll  out  another  layer 
of  paste  of  the  same  thickness,  cut  it  as  above,  wet  the 
edge  of  the  bottom  paste  and  put  on  the  top;  pare  them 
round  to  the  pan,  and  notch  them  about  a  dozen  times 
with  the  back  of  the  knife ;  rub  them  lightly  with,  yolk  of 
^  %g;  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  When  done,  take  the  thin  slice  off  the  top;  then 
with  a  small  knife  or  spoon,  take  out  the  bread  and  the 
inside  paste,  leaving  the  outside  quite  entire.  Then  parboil 
two  dozens  of  large  oysters,  strain  them  from  their  liquor, 
wash,  beard,  and  cut  them  into  four,  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  an  ounce  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  good  cream,  a  little  grated  lemon  peel,  the 
ojster  liquor,  free  from  sediment,  reduced  by  boiling  to 
one  half^  some  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of 
lemon  juice,  stir  it  over  a  fire  for  five  minutes  and  fill  the 
patties. 

OS*.— Hermetically  sealed  oysters  may  here  be  used, 
first  seasoning  the  gravy  with  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt, 
and  thickening  it  with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour  or 
arrowroot. 


Allow  a  dozen  for  each  shell,  and  more  if 
Oysters  to  very  small;  wash  them  in  their  own  liquor; 
Scollop,  cook  them  with  small  button  or  minced 
mushrooms,  parsley,  shallot,  and  some  whole 
pepper;  brown  and  dust  in  a  little  flour;  add  the  liquor 
of  the  oystera  and  stock,  and  reduce  them  to  a  sauce. 
Take  it  off  the  fire;  put  in  the  oysters;  to  these  add  the 
joice  of  the  lemon,  fill  the  shells,  cover  with  crumbs  and 
batter,  put  them  into  the  oven  till  of  a  fine  colour,  dish 
and  serve.  They  may  be  served  in  their  own  shells  and 
broiled;  or  for  boiling  blanch  them  in  their  own  liquor,- 
do  not  let  them  boil,  pour  it  off  and  add  a  bit  of  but- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


102  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   SCONOMT 

» 

tet,  pepper,    minced    parsley,    and  shallots;   fill    the  shells 
as   above,  and  broil  them. 

Stew   the  oysters    slowly  in   their    own  li- 
Another.  quor    for  two    or   three    minutes,  take    them 

out  with  a  spoon,  beard  them,  and  skim  the 
liquor ;  put  a  bit  of  butter  into  a  stewpan ;  when  it  is 
melted,  add  as  much  fine  bread-crumbs  as  will  dry  it  up; 
then  put  to  it  the  oyster  liquor,  and  give  it  a  boil  up. 
Put  the  oysters  into  scollop  shells  that  you  have  butter- 
ed and  strewed  [with  bread-crumbs ;  then  a  layer  of  oys- 
ters, then  of  bread-crumbs,  and  then  some  more  oysters; 
moisten  it  with  the  oyster  liquor,  cover  them  with  bread- 
crumbs, put  little  bits  of  butter  on  the  top  of  each,  and 
brown  them  in  an  oven. 

0&. — ^Essence  of  anchovy,  catsup,  cayenne,  grated  lemon 
peel,  mace  and  other  spices,  &c.  are  added  by  those  who 
prefer  piquance  to  the  genuine  flavour  of  the  oyster. 


Glean   and   beard  the  oysters,   dip  them    in 
Oyeter  butter    or  a  beaten  egg.    Crumb    them  over, 

CuUeU*  and    fry    to  a  nice    brown    colour    either   in 

ghee  or  beef  dripping. 

Prepare    your    vol-au-vents.    Put  a  ladle 

Fetits  VoUaU'    of  white  sauce  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little 

Vents  aux  less    in    quantity    of    the    liquor    from  the 

Hnitres.  oysters,    a    tea-spoonfol    of  the    essence   of 

anchovies,  a  small    blade  of  mace,    two  or 

three    pepper  corns,    and  boil '  the    whole  down    till  thick, 

have  ready    two  dozen    moderately  sized    oysters,    blanched 

and  bearded,  if  large    dfvide  them    into   four;    remove  the 

mace  and  pepper  corns,  throw  in  the  oysters  with  a  little 

salt,  sugar  and    lime  juice,    make  it  just    warm  over    the 

fire,  for  if  allowed  to  boil   the  sauce  will   be  thin  and  the 

oysters  hard,  fill  the  vol-au-vents  and  serve  on  a  napkin. 


I 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  103 

Prepare  some  puff  paste,  roll  it  out  se- 
SUioles  aux  veral  times  as  thin  as  a  wine  glass,  and  cut 
EuUres.  it  out  with  a  tin  cutter  about  four  fingers 
in  diameter,  lay  about  a  tea-spoonful  of  the 
following  preparation  on  each  piece,  wet  the  edges  round 
and  turn  one  edge  over  on  the  other,  close  it  well,  then 
egg  and  bread-crumb  them,  and  fry  in  plenty  of  ghee  or 
lard  for   about  five  minutes. 

Take  two  dozen  oysters  (save  the  liquor)  and  divide 
them  into  four.  Put  a  dessert-spoonful  of  chopped  onions 
into  a  stewpan  with  the  same  quantity  of  butter  over  the 
fire,  fry  them,  but  do  not  let  them  brown,  then  add  a 
tea-spoonful  of  flour  with  three  table-spoonfuls  of  oyster 
hqttor  and  eight  of  white  sauce,  boil  it  until  thickisb, 
season  with  a  little  cayenne,  salt  and  nutmeg,  stirring  it 
the  whole  time,  then  add  the  oysters  with  the  beaten  yolk 
of  three  eggs,  and  keep  stirring  until  the  eggs  have  set, 
when  immediately  turn  the   whole   into  a  dish    to  cool. 

Make  the  same  preparation  of  oysters  as 
Ai^iUettes  for  rissoles  aux  huitres,  only  thickening  the 
aux  HuUres.  sauce  with  an  extra  egg.  Form  them  into 
thin  croquettes,  roll  them  in  egg  and  bread- 
crumbs, place  them  on  small  skewers,  egg  and  bread-crumb 
them  again,  fry  them  in  hot  ghee,  and  serve  with  crisp 
fried  parsley. 

Boll  out  some  puff  paste  about    one  quar- 
Tetits  pdUs     ter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  out   as   many  pieces 
of  %orU.  as   you  please  with  a  fluted  cutter  or  a  thin 

claret  glass,  mix  the  remainder  of  the  paste 
and  roll  it  out  half  as  thick  as  the  former,  and  cut  out  the 
same  number ;  rub  a  baking  sheet  over  with  a  brush  dipped 
in  water  and  lay  the  pieces  separately  upon  it,  then  lay 
some  force-meat  in  the  centre,  which  may  be  seasoned  with 
curry  powder,  or  fowl,  game,  fish,  lobster,  or  oysters,  as 
you  may  choose^  then  cover  them  over  with  the  pieces  of 
paste   first   cut,   press  the    edges    evenly   round,  and  mark 


Digitized  by 


Google 


104  INDIAN    DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

them  with  the  edge  of  a  knife  or  small  spoon«  Brush  the 
tops  only  over  lightly  with  a  little  yolk  of  egg^  put  them 
into   a  hot  oven   and  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 

Are  made   in   the  same  way    as  the   petits 

Petites  Bau-    vol-au-vents,  but    the  paste  must  be  rolled  out 

cAies  only  half  the  thickness,  and  the  cutter  should 

be  fluted,    but    not  larger   than   a    company's 

rupee;    they  require    the  oven  a  little  hotter   than  the  vol- 

au-vents. 

06s* — ^Tliey  may   be  filled   as  the  last. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  the  flesh  of  any  des- 
Petite^  Sou-    cription  of  poultry^  cut  it    into    small    pieces 
ch^  A  la      and  pound  it  well  in  a  mortar,  with  a  small 
puree  de         quantity    of   lean  ham,  only    sufficient  to  fla- 
FolaUle.         vour  it,  put  about  half  a  tea^spoonful  of  fine- 
ly  chopped  onion,  or  one  of  eschalots,  into   a 
stewpan  with  half  an  ounce  •  of    butter,  shake  it  over  the 
fire  and  stir  it  well,  then  thicken  it  with  a  little  flour   or 
arrowroot,  then  add  the    pounded     meat    previously  mixed 
with  four  table-spoonfuls  of  white  sauce  and  half  a  pint   of 
rich   stock,   boil  the  whole     well,     seasoning  it   with  white 
pepper,   salt  and   sugar,  pass  it  through  a  tammis   by  rub- 
bing it  with  a  spoon,  then  put  it  into  another  stewpan,  and 
warm  it  with  a  spoonful  or  two   of  liaison,     fill  the  bou-> 
ch^es,   and  serve  hot  on  a  napkin. 

Make  some  good  rich  sauce  with  any  game, 

Petites  Bou-    put  about  half  a    pint  into  a  stewpan,  then 

ch^ee  de         cut  up  into  small  squares  the  flesh  from  the 

GiUer.  breast    of  florican,  partridge,   or  rock  pigeon, 

that    have    been    dressed,    sprinkle  it  slightly 

with  arrowroot,  throw  it  into   the  sauce  but  do  not  let  it 

boil,  season  with  a  little  sugar  and  salt^    fill  the  boucheea 

and  serve. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKE&Y.  105 

The^e  are  prepared  precisely  as   for  the 

Petiies  BaucA^es    petites    bouch^es    &  la    pur^e    d^    volaile* 

a  la  puree  de      only    using    the  flesh   of  game    and  game 

Gibier.  sauce,  instead  of  poultry  and    white  sauce. 

The  largest  and  finest  oysters  are  to  be  chosen 
Fried.  for  this  purpose;  simmer  them  in  their  own  li- 
quor for  a  couple  of  minutes ;  take  them  out,  and 
lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain;  beard  tbem,  and  then  flour, 
egg,  and  bread-crumb  them;  put  them  into  boiling  fat, 
and  fry  them   a  delicate  brown. 

When  the  oysters  are  prepared  by   simmering 
Opier  Paw-  in  their    own  liquor,  cut  them   across  in  thin 
der.  slices;   dry     them   crisp    that   they   may   be  re- 

duced to   fine   powder,   or  pack  and   use  them 
for  sauces,  as  truffles,  or  morrels. 

Oysters  three  dozens,  salt  three  quarters  of 
Another.  an  ounce,  pound,  press  through  a  hair  sieve, 
add  dried  wheat  flour  sufficient  quantity  to  make 
a  paste  about  seven  and  a  half  ounces,  roll  out  to  the  thick- 
ness of  half  a  crown,  dry,  pound,  sift,  put  into  bottles  and 
seal  the  corks.  Three  drachms  will  make  half  a  pint 
of  sauce. 

Take  any  quantity,  and  simmer  them  slowly 
Ofitere,  to  ten  minutes  in  their  liquor  with  mace,  whole 
pieile.  pepper,  and  salt;  take  up  the  oysters  and  put 
them  into  wide  mouthed  bottles;  add  an  equal 
quantity  of  vinegar  to  the  liquor;  boil  it  in  an  iron  or 
earthen  vessel;  pour  it  over  the  oysters,  adding  a  dozen 
grains  of  allspice  to  each  bottle ;  put  in  a  little  pounded 
sugar  with  a  table-spoonful  of  brandy  when  they  cool  to  each 
bottle;  cork  them  tightly  and  cover  with  dammer.  Have 
your  bottles  and  every  thing  in  readiness  for  putting  them 
up  before  they  are  prepared,  as  half  an  hour  or  less  exposure 
to  the   air  will  make  them    keep   a    month  more  or  less. 

0 


Digitized  by 


Google 


106  INDIAN  DOMESTIC   SCONOMY  AND  COOKBET. 

0b8, — If  you  find  you  have  not  liquor  sufficient  to  cover 
the  oysters^  add  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and. water,  in  which 
a  few  oysters  have   been  rubbed   up. 

In     the    last    edition    of    Domestic    Cookery^ 
Turtle,  to    under   the  title  of  "  Turtle  at  Sea/'  Miss  Roberts 
dreis.  has   described  the   manner  in  which  it   is  dressed 

on  board  East  Indiamen  as  follows: — "The  true 
flavour  of  the  turtle  is  best  preserved  without  mixture  of 
other  meat;  any  addition  being  quite  unnecessary,  except- 
ing for  the  purpose  of  making  the  turtle  go  further.  Kill 
and  divide  the  turtle  in  the  usual  manner,  selecting  the 
coarser  portions;  stew  them  down  into  soup  with  a  bunch 
of  seasoning  herbs,  onions,  pepper,  and  salt.  If  there 
should  be  any  eggs  in  the  turtle,  let  them  stew  in  the  soup 
for  four  hours;  strain  and  thicken  the  soup,  and  serve  it 
up  with  the  entrails  cut  into  small  pieces,  a  proportion  of 
the  finer  parts,  and  also  of  the  green  fat,  all  cut  into  small 
pieces.  The  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  two  glasses  of  ma* 
deira,  merely  warmed  up  in  the  soup,  are  the  proportions 
for  three  pints.  The  coarse  part  and  entrails  will  take  six 
hours  stewing  to  make  the  soup ;  the  fine  parts  two  hours, 
and  the  green  fat  one.  The  callapee  is  made  of  the  fine 
parts  cut  small,  stewed  or  baked,  and  served  up  with  a  por- 
tion of  the  soup  reduced  to  a  very  thick  gravy  with  small 
eggs,  force  meat   balls,  and  slices  of  lemon/' 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTEE    VII. 


BOILING,  ROASTING,  BROILING,  Etc. 

This  process,  generally  considered  so  simple, 
BoUing*  is  very  seldom  performed  to  perfection  even  by 
those  cooks  who  are  considered  tolerably  pro* 
fieient  in  their  art,  and  often  from  carelessness  and  want 
of  attention  to  a  few  common  rules.  The  native  cook  con* 
siders  that  when  he  has  put  the  meat  into  the  pot  deluged 
in  water,  on  as  strong  a  fire  as  he  can  make  up,  that  the 
principal  business  is  accomplished,  and  all  that  remains  is 
to  remove  the  meat  at  the  time  it  is  supposed  to  be  suffi- 
ciently dressed,  and  in  this  consists  the  whole  mystery  of 
boiling.  The  few  following  rules,  if  carefully  attended  to 
(and  which  may  easily  be  explained  to  a  native),  would 
soon  render  it  a  simple  process. 

Put  your  meat  in  cold  water  and  heat  it  gradually  until 
it  boils,  when  a  scum  will  rise  which  must  carefully  be 
removed;  for  if  it  is  allowed  to  fall  on  the  meat,  it  gives 
a  dirty  appearance.  The  quantity  of  water  is  to  be  pro- 
portioned to  the  meat:  about  one  quart  to  a  pound  of 
the   latter. 

The  meat  must  always  be  covered  during  the  process, 
and  the  water  kept  at  a  gentle  simmer;  the  scum  from 
time  to  time  being  removed  until  it  ceases  to  rise,  when 
the  meat  will  be  perfectly  clean,  and  have  a  delicate  ap- 
pearance. 

The  time  allowed  for  boiling  is  generally  fifteen  minutes 
to  the  pound  of  meat  from  the  water  first  coming  to  the 
boil,  and  beyond  this  point  it  should  never  be  allowed  to 
pass  so  as  to   degenerate  into    steam ;   for  the   slower  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


108  INDIAN   DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 

meat  boils,  the  more  tender  it  will  be,  whereas  if  kept 
boiling  fast^  it  makes  it    tough  and  hard. 

Never  allow  the  meat  or  poultry  to  remain  in  the  water 
after  it  is  sufficiently  done,  as  it  loses  its  flavour. 

The  cover  of  the  saucepan  must  fit  close  to  prevent  the 
steam  evaporating,  and  smoke  from  insinuating  itself  under 
the  lid  and  flavouring  the  meat. 

The  liquor  in  which  meat  or  poultry  has  been  thus  care- 
fully boiled,  may  easily  be  converted  into  soup.  (See  direc- 
tions respecting  soup,  last  para.) 

Pork,  veal,  and  all  young  meat  must  be  thoroughly  dress* 
ed ;  beef  and  mutton  is  usually  preferred  a  little  underdone, 
but  is  not  so  wholesome  as  meat  well  dressed  and  retaining 
all   its   juices. 

In  boiling  vegetables  the  native  cooks  are  very  careless, 
serving  them  up  in  a  half  raw  state,  or  else  overdresses, 
from  their  inattention  to  any  regular  rule;  and  vegetables 
that  have  been  raised  at  great  cost  and  care  are  continual- 
ly put  on  table  so  soddened  and  overdressed  that  they 
are  not  fit  to  be  eaten.  To  prevent  this,  never  allow  the 
cook  to  have  them  much  beyond  the  time  ^  necessary  for 
dressing,  otherwise  to  save  themselves  trouble,  they  com- 
mence getting  them  ready  the  first  thing  in  the  day,  and 
then  let  them  remain  soaking  in  the  water  to  be  wanned 
up  just  when  wanted ;  of  course  their  flavour,  goodness, 
and  colour  being  entirely  destroyed.  Greens  are  an  excep- 
tion to  slow  boiling;  they  require  to  be  dressed  very  quick- 
ly over  a  brisk  fire  with  a  large  quantity  of  water,  and 
carefully  skimmed.  The  time  for  greens,  green  peas,  cauli- 
flower, and  Jerusalem  artichokes,  is  twenty  minutes;  broad 
beans  and  artichokes,  half  an  hour ;  turnips  and  brocoli  fif- 
teen minutes ;  beet  root  and  carrots  according  to  the  size. 
The  best  way  to  judge  if  these  are  sufficiently  done,  is  to 
try    them   with   a    fork. 

In  the  simple  boiling  of  meat  as  in  stew,  ragouts,  fricas- 
sees, and  the  variety  of  dishes  derived  from  them,  the  fire 
must  be  so   kept   under,  that  the  contents  of  the  boiler  or 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKEEY.  )09 

ftewpan  shall  bat  gently  simmer,  and  never  boil  up^  other- 
wise the  meat  will   be  hard  and  tasteless. 

A  very  little  fuel  will  be  found  adequate  to  the  general 
purposes  of  good  cookery.  The  great  art  of  preparing  food 
in  a  stewpan  is  principally  in  the  first  browning  of  the  meat, 
if  a  brown  sauce  is  to  be  made ;  and  the  subsequent  appli- 
cation of  the  smallest  quantity  of  fire,  to  keep  up  a  very 
gentle  simmering  of  the   liquid  ingredients. 

Beceipts  in  Cookery,  however  closely  followed,  will  never 
be  successful  unless  the  greatest  attention  be  paid  to  the 
deanliness   of   every   culinary   vessel  used. 

Is     only    to  be    learned    by    practice ;  its 
Boasting  perfection   lies    in  the  joint    being    thorough- 

ly dressed,  the  juices  all  retained  and  fra- 
grant, the  outside  of  a  uniform  brown  colour,  and  the 
fat  not  melted  away.  The  spit  must  be  clean,  and  the 
le8s  appearance  of  its  having  passed  through  the  joint,  the 
better  and  nicer  it  will  look  when  served.  Previous  to  put- 
ting it  on  the  spit,  see  that  it  is  carefully  jointed  and  the 
bones  divided  in  a  neck  or  loin,  so  that  the  carver  may 
be  able  to  help  either  without  trouble.  The  cooks  and 
butchers  are  very  careless  in  this  matter  ;  breaking  and 
anaslring  the  bones  instead  of  dividing  the  joints  clearly 
vith  a  knife  or  saw  ;  skewers  and  strings  are  very  neces- 
saiy  here  to  enable  the  joint  to  be  properly  fixed  on  the 
6pit  as  well  as  to  keep  it  evenly  balanced  whilst  turning. 
Tbe  fire  must  be  so  prepared  as  to  act  equally  on  all  parts 
of  the  joint,  and  proper  attention  paid  to  the  basting ;  the 
gravy  carefully  collected  as  it  drips  into  a  pan  beneath,  and 
should  any  ashes  fall  in  it,  they  must  be  immediately  re- 
mo¥ed,  as  the  meat  may  otherwise  become  tainted  with 
the  smoke  arising  from  the  fat  falling  on  the  live  cinders, 
and  the  dripping  discoloured. 

Do  not  put  the  meat  too  near  the  fire  at  first  lest  it  be- 
eoDke  scorched  and  the  outside  hard,  giving  the  meat  a  disa- 
peeable  taste.     This  is   most  likely    to   be  the    case  where 


Digitized  by 


Google 


110  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

the  meat  is  dressed  over  an  imperfect  fire  with  green  wood^ 
and  in  the  open  air  ;  a  consequence  not  to  be  avoided  at 
times  by  a  sojourner  in  the  East.  The  fire  must,  of  course, 
be  proportioned  to  the  size  of  the  joint :  a  larger  one  re- 
quiring a  stronger  fire  than  a  lesser,  but  still  both  should 
be   dressed  by   a  clear  heat,  arising  from  glowing  charcoal. 

The  time  meat  takes  for  roasting  is  similar  to  that  of 
boiling,  though  much  depends  on  the  state  of  the  fire,  the 
nearness  of  the  meat  to  it,  the  size  of  the  joint,  and  the 
attention  paid  to  its  basting ;  which,  whilst  it  keeps  the 
meat  moist,  at  the  same  time  renders  the  action  of  the  fire 
inore  powerful  upon  it.  When  the  steam  rises  from  the 
meat,  it  shows  that  it  is  perfectly  wanned  through,  when 
it  draws  towards  the  fire,  it  is  sufficiently  done.  If  you 
wish  to  froth  it,  baste  it  with  butter  or  dripping,  and  dredge 
it  very  lightly  with  flour  ;  be  careful  not  to  use  too  much, 
or  it  may  be  sprinkled  over  with  bread-crumbs,  sweet  herbs 
dried  and  powdered,   with  various  other  ingredients. 

Is  very   little   understood  by  native    cooks 
Frying  but     it    only     requires      a     few     directions, 

given  in  a  clear  and  distinct  manner, 
to  have  the  process  far  better  conducted  than  is  usual- 
ly  the  case,  and  may  be  easily  explained  through  the  head 
servant  or  to  the  cook  himself.  The  secret  consists,  as  fol- 
lows, in  the  pan  being  perfectly  clean,  and  free  from  all 
taint ;  to  insure  this,  fry  a  little  fat  or  ghee  in  it  and  then 
wipe  it  out  clean  ;  next,  have  the  fire  clear  and  bright,  see 
that  the  butter,  ghee,  oil  or  fat  is  perfectly  fresh  and  sweet; 
the  least  impurity  in  either  is  sufiScient  to  destroy  the  fla- 
vour, and  salt  prevents  its  becoming  brown.  If  either  of 
these  substances  become  burnt,  a  dirty  appearance  is  given 
to  the  article  fried.  Suet  that  has  been  clarified,  is  ui  ex- 
cellent article  to  be  used,  but,  whatever  it  is,  if  dripping, 
oil,  ghee,  or  butter,  it  must  be  perfectly  hot  before  the 
article  to  be  fried  is  put  into  it;  without  this  precaution, 
fish,  potatoes,   &c,,   can   never  be   crisp  or  brown,  as  it  de- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY,  111 

pends  upon  the  degree  of   heat  at    which  this  is  first  put 
into  the  pan. 

Cutlets  that  arp  dressed  in  bread-crumbs,  should  always 
be  put  on  a  sieve  or  other  apparatus  so  as  to  drain  off  all 
the  fat,  and  served  crisp  and  dry,  the  sauce  added  after. 
The  top  of  a  small  bamboo  basket  will  answer  for  a  sieve 
here.  The  fat,  oil,  ghee,  or  butter,  in  which^  plain  arti- 
cles have  been  fried,  may  be  set  aside  and  used  again  for 
the  same  purpose. 

The  gridiron  should  be  as  clean  as  polish 
Broilinp.  can    make   it,  then  rub    it  over  with    a    lit- 

tle suet,  to  prevent  the  meat  from  being 
marked.  Have  ready  a  clear  and  brisk  fire  free  from  smoke, 
or  it  is  impossible  to  give  an  inviting  appearance  to  the 
grill;  place  the  gridiron  upon  it,  and  heat  it  sufficiently, 
but  not  so  as  to  bum  the  meat;  when  it  is  placed  upon  it, 
let  it  broil  gradually,  and  remove  the  moment  it  is  done. 
The   grill   should  always  be  served  as   hot  as   possible. 

Gridirons  are  sometimes  made  double,  in  which  the  chop 
or  steak  is  confined  aud  turned  on  the  fire.  The  fiuted 
gridiron,  in  which  the  concave  bars  terminate  in  a  trough, 
arc  useful  for  preserving  a  small  portion  of  the  gravy,  but 
the  old  plain  gridiron  is  most  common  in  India,  and  only 
requires  the  directions  given  to  be  followed,  for  economy, 
comfort,  and  taste.' 

Ois. — Never  sprinkle  salt  over  any  article  to  be  grilled, 
bat  add  it   after* 

The  cook,  whether  Native  or  Indo-Portuguese,  requires 
to  be  looked  after  and  made  to  keep  all  his  cooking  uten- 
sils perfectly  clean  ;  which,  if  of  copper,  must  be  fresh  tin- 
ned at  least  once  a  month,  and  when  earthenware  vessels 
are  used  for  cooking,  which  are  much  the  safest,  they  should 
be  renewed  every  third,  or  fourth  day,  or  a  week  at  farth- 
est. It  is  his  business  to  keep  the  cooking  room  clean  and 
in  order;  the  vessels  dry  and  ready  for  immediate  use: 
and  to  enable  him  to  have  them  in  such  a  state,  as  well  as 


Digitized  by 


Google 


118  INDIAN     DOMESTIC    ECONOMY    AND    COOKERY. 

for  straining  soups  or  gravies,  or  covering  over  meat,  or  wip- 
ing up  any  uncleanliness,  he  should  be  furnished  with  clean 
towels  daily,  making  him  give  those  used  the  day  previous 
to  the  washerman  on  his  receiving  the  other;  and  when 
he  has  finished  his  business  for  the  day,  either  himself  or 
his  assistant  should  clean  all  the  utensils  and  instruments, 
and  prepare  the  cookroom  for  the  following  morning. 

Large  earthenware  pots  containing  water  should  be  close 
at  hand  both  for  culinary  purposes  and  cleansing  the  cook* 
ing  vessels;  wood  ashes  being  the  best  article  that  can  be 
used  with  water  for  the  purpose,  if  metallic  ones,  and  ex- 
posure to  the  sun  the  cleanliest  way  of  drying  and  purify- 
ing them,  far  better  than  by  a  greasy  towel.  Cleanliness  in 
his  person  is  one  of  the  essentials  in  a  cook,  and  this  must 
be  insisted  upon,  and  to  insure  his  being  so,  he  should  be 
made  to  present  himself  for  orders  every  morning  wanted 
or  not. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTEE  VIII. 


SAUCES. 

Pound    four   anchovies   in  a  mortar   with  a 

Anchovy  little    butter,  and  stir  it  into   half  a  pint  of 

Sauce.  espagnole  or    melted    butter;    a  little    lemon 

juice  or  vinegar    may  be    added — or   stir  in 

a  table-spoonful   of    essence  of    anchovy  in  half  a  pint  of 

melted  batter. 

Pound    the    anchovies  in  a   little    wine  or 
jUoiicr.  vinegar,   and   work    them  into    melted  butter 

or  any   other  plain  sauce. 

Fare,  core,  and  slice  some  apples ;  boil  them 

Jgple.  in   a  little  water   with   a  bit  of  lemon  peel; 

when   tender,  mash  them,  add  to  them  a  bit 

of  butter   and    some    moist     sugar,    heat    and    serve  in  a 

sauce-boat. 

0£f. — Imitation    apple    sauce    is    made    from  the   green 
fruit  of  the    Papaw,   in  the  same  way. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  half  a  pound  of 
BUeekamel  or  veal  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean  ham ; 
JFiHe  Sauce,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  8  or  10  white 
pepper  corns,  a  shallot  or  small  onion, 
tvo  cloves,  two  blades  of  mace,  a  bay  leaf  or  peach,  some 
parsley,  and  a  quart  of  veal  broth,  mutton,  or  water;  let 
it  boil  until  it  is  strong  and  well  flavoured;  strain  and 
thicken  with  a  little  arrowroot  rubbed  smooth  in  some  of 
the  gravy;  boil  it  up  and  mix  in  very  slowly  a  pint  of 
good  cream.' 

p 


Digitized  by 


Google 


114  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   SGONOtfT 

Take  two   ounces  of  butter,    three  pounds 
AnoiAer,  of  veal    cut  in    small  slices,  a    quarter  of  a 

White.  pound   of  ham^  a  few   white  mushrooms,   two 

small  white  onions,  a  little  parsley;  put  the 
whole  into  a  stewpan  and  put  it  on  the  fire  until  the 
meat  is  made  firm;  then  add  three  spoonfuls  of  floar 
moistened  with  some  boiling  hot  thin  cream,  and  a  ladle 
of  consomm^;  keep  this  sauce  rather  thin,  so  that  whilst 
you  reduce  it>  the  ingredients  may  have  time  to  be  stew- 
ed thoroughly;  season  it  with  a  little  salt,  and  strain  it 
through  a  tammis. 

Take  a    tea-cupful   of    finely    grated  horse 

Hone  radish,  radish,   one    table-spoonful  of  salad    oil,    two 

of  vinegar,  half  a   spoonful   of    mustard,    and 

half  a  pint   of  cream;  all  these   to  be  well  mixed  together. 

Peel     and     slice    the    onion  as  for    sauce 
Brown  Onion    (cucumber    or    celery    in     equal     proportions 
Gravy.  may    be    added) ;    put    them  into  a  stewpan 

with  a  spoonful  of  butter,  set  it  on  a 
slow  fire  and  shake  it  about  till  the  onions  are  lightly 
browned;  gradually  stir  in  half  an  ounce  of  fiour,  add  a 
little  broth,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  boil  up  for  a 
few  minutes,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  claret  or  port  wine, 
and  some  mushroom  catsup;  lemon  juice  or  vinegar 
may  be  added  to  sharpen  it  with;  rub  it  through  a  tam- 
mis or  sieve*  If  this  sauce  is  for  steaks,  shred  an  ounce 
of  onions,  fry  them  a  nice  brown,  and  put  them  to  the 
sauce  you   have  rubbed  through  a  tammis. 

Boil  in  a  pint  of  water  the  crumbs  of 
Bread  Sauce,  a  roll  or  a  slice  of  bread,  an  onion  cut 
into  slices,  and  some  whole  black  or  white 
pepper;  when  the  onion  is  tender,  drain  off  the  water, 
pick  out  the  pepper-corns,  and  rub  the  bread  through  a 
sieve  or  quite  smooth;  then  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
gill  of  cream,  a  little  butter  and  a  small  quantity  of  salt^ 
stir  it  till   it    boils. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKXRT.  115 

Divide  a  small  onion  into  quartersi  boil  it 
Jfidher.  in  half  a  pint  of  new  milk  with  a  few  pep- 

per-corns, strain  the  milk  over  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  crumbs  of  white  or  brown  bread>  roll  up  a 
table-spoonful  of  butter  in  a  tea-spoonful  of  arrowroot, 
mix  all  together  and  stir  it  until  it  boils  ;  serve  in  a  sauce 
tureen   or  otherwise. 

Pound  a  little  sugar,  put  it    into  an  iron. 

Browning        spoon  with    as  much  water  as  will  dissolve  it, 

for  Sauces    hold  it  over   a   quick  fire  until  it  becomes  of 

or  Soups.       a  dark  brown  colour,    or  take  a    little    flour 

with   a   bit   of  butter,   put  into  an  iron  ladle 

or  spoon,  and  hold  it  over  a  quick  fire  as  for  sugar  browning. 

Obs. — This  is  far  the  best,  the  sugar  browning  im- 
parts a  better  taste.  The  richest  browning  may  be  made 
with  mushroom  catsup,  port  wine,  claret,  or  toasted  bread. 

Wash  the  brains  very  well  twice,  put 
Brain  Sauce,  them  into  a  basin  of  cold  water  with  a 
two  ways.  little  salt  in  it,  and  let  them  soak  for  an 
hour;  then  pour  off  the  cold  and  cover 
▼ith  hot  water,  and  when  cleaned  and  skinned,  put  them 
i&to  a  saucepan .  with  plenty  of  cold  water  ;  when  it  boils 
remove  all  the  scum  very  carefully,  and  gently  boil  for 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Now  chop  them,  but  not  very 
fine,  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  with  sage  or  parsley,  pre- 
pared as  directed,  with  a  couple  of  spoonfuls  of  thin  melted 
bntter  and  a  little  salt ;  stir  them  well  together,  and  as  soon 
as  they  are  well  warmed  (take  care  they  don't  bum), 
akin  the  tongue,  trim  off  the  roots,  put  it  in  the  middle  of 
a  dish,  and  the  brains  around  it  ;  or  chop  the  brains  with 
a  shallot,  a  little  parsley  and  four  hard*boiled  ^gs,  and 
put  them   into  a   quarter   of  a  pint   of  white   sauce. 

Take  a  table-spoonful   of  capers,  and  two 
Ciper  Sauce*      tea-spoonfols    of    vinegar,    mince    one-third 
of    them  .  very  fine^   and  divide    the  others  - 


Digitized  by 


Google 


116  INDUN     DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 

in  halves,  put  them  into  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  melted 
butter  or  good  thickened  gravy,  stir  them  the  same  way 
as   you  do  for  melted  butter   or  it   will  oil. 

A  dessert  spoonful   of  olive   oil    or  cream, 
Hone  raduh    a    dessert    spoonful  of    mustard   (powder),    a 
Sauce.  table-spoonful     of    vinegar^     and    two    table- 

spoonfuls   of    scraped     horse    radish,    a  little 
salt  mixed  well  together  and  served  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Peel  some  apples,   cut  them  into   quarters, 

Jj[>ple  Sauce       take  out  the  core  ;  then  put  them  into  a  st^w- 

far  Geete  and   pan  with  a  little  brown    sugar    and  water; 

roaet  Fork.       when  they  are  melted,  stir  them  well  with 

a    spoon,    then     add    a    little    butter    and 

serve  up. 

The  apples  must  not   be  stirred  too   much  or  they  will 

loQse  their  acidity  and    become  brovm  ;  some  persons  add 

cloves  or  nutmeg. 

Dissolve  six  anchovies  in  a  glass    of  port 

Quin'e  JUk      wine,  bruise  six  shallots,  and  boil  them  in  a 

Sauce.  quart  of   walnut    ketchup  with  cloves,  mace, 

and  long  pepper ;   let  it  cool  and  mix  in  the 

anchovies  with  half  a  pint  of  port  wine.    All  sauces  ought 

to  be  put  up  in  small  bottles. 

Put  a   piece   of  butter  of  the  size  of  a 
Sauce  Tiquante    walnut  on  the  fryingpan,  and  add  one  table- 
for  fried  fah.    spoonful  of    vinegar  and  a  shallot  chopped 
very  fine* 

Bruise  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  with 
Sauce  for  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon,  or  rather  pound 
Lohetere.  them  in  a  mortar,  with  a  tea-spoonfal  of  water 
and  the  soft  inside  and  the  spawn  of  the  lobster, 
rub  them  quite  smooth  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  made  mustard, 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  and  five  of  vinegar ;  sea- 
spn  it  with  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper^  and  some  salt. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKBRT.  1 17 

Choose  a  fresh  hen  lobster ;  pick  out  the 
Miter  Sauce,  spawn  and  the  ted  coral,  put  into  a  mortar^ 
adding  to  it  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  pound 
it  quite  smooth  and  rub  it  through  a  hair  sieve  with  the 
back  of  a  spoon.  Cut  the  meat  of  the  lobster  into  small 
squares  or  break  it  to  pieces  with  a  fork,  put  the  pounded 
spawn  into  as  much  melted  butter  as  you  think  will  do, 
and  stir  it  together  till  it  is  thoroughly  mixed.  Now  put 
to  it  the  meat  of  the  lobster  and  warm  it  on  the  fire,  take 
care  it  does  not  boil,  which  will  spoil  its  colour,  and  its 
red  will  immediately  fade. 

Some  use  strong  beef  or  veal  gravy  instead  of  melted 
butter,  adding  anchovy,  cayenne,  catsup,  lemon  juice,  pickle 
or  wine,  &c* 

Ohs. — You  must  have  a  hen  lobster  on  account  of  the 
spawn ;  see  that  it  has  not  been  taken  away ;  the  goodness 
of  your  sauce  depends  upon  its  having  a  full  share  of  the 
spawn,  to  which  it  owes  its  colour   and  flavour. 

Take  twelve  or  fifteen  tomatas  ripe  and  red, 
Love  aj^le       take  off  the  stalk,  cut  them   in  halves,  squeeze 
Sauce.  them  just  enough  to  get  all  the  water  and  seeds 

out,  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  capsicum 
and  two  or  three  table-spoonfuls  of  beef  gravy,  set  them 
on  a  slow  stove  for  an  hour,  or  till  properly  melted ;  rub 
them  through  a  tammis  into  a  clear  stewpan  with  a  lit- 
tle white  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  them  simmer  together 
a  few  minutes. 

Take  as   many  ripe  tomatas   as   you  please. 
Sauce  to  skin  and  remove    the    seeds,    then  mash    the 

hep.  pulp   through  a  cloth,   boil  the  watery  parti- 

cles away  until  you  have  reduced  it  to  about 
one  half;  to  a  pint  of  this  liquor  add  four  ounces  of  green 
ginger  chopped  or  pounded  very  fine,  also  twenty  cloves  of 
garlic  bruised,  two  tolahs  weight  of  salt,  two  wine-glasses  of 
nnegar,   and  half  an  ounce  of  red  pepper ;  give  the  whole 


Digitized  by 


Google 


118  INDIAN     B0H£8TIC     XCONOMT 

a  boil  up  or  ^  put  it  in  the  sun  for  four  or  fire  days  in  a 
wide-mouthed  bottle  well  corked.  It  is  then  fit  for  use 
and  wiU  be  found  a  very  agreeable  addition  to  soup  or  cold 
meat ;  if  you  wish  to  keep  it  for  soup  or  stews,  then  add 
wine  instead  of  vinegar,  put  into  small  bottles  well  corked 
and  keep   in   a  cool  place. 

Put  a  table-spoonful  of  chopped  onions  into 
Ge^weie  a  stewpan  with  one  of  butter,  and  fry  a  light 

Sattce.  brown ;  then  add  four  glasses  of  claret  or  port 
wine,  a  blade  of  mace,  two  or  three  cloves, 
some  thyme,  parsley,  and  a  peach  leaf  or  two,  boil  these  a 
few  minutes,  then  add  a  quart  of  brown  sauce  with  a  ladle 
of  consomme,  place  ihe  whole  over  the  fire  and  reduce  it 
until  rather  thick,  then  add  a  table-spoonful  of  chopped 
mushrooms,  let  them  remain  a  minute  or  two,  and  then 
strain  the  sauce  into  a  fresh  stewpan,  season  it  with  two 
spoonfuls  of  essence  of  anchovies,  cayenne  pepper,  a  little 
sugar  and  salt,  stir  the  whole  quite  smooth  and  remove  as 
it  is  about  to   boil. 

Obs. — If  you  have  no  brown  sauce  ready,   substitute  beef 
or   other   gravy,   and  thicken  with  brown    roux. 

Make  a  marinade  with  the  following  vege- 
Genoese  Sauce  tables,  sliced  carrots,  onions,  roots  of  ^vs- 
far  eieioed fish,  ley,  a  few  mushrooms,  a  bay,  or  peach 
leaves,  some  thyme,  a  blade  of  mace,  with  a 
few  cloves,  put  these  into  a  stewpan,  and  fry  with  a  little 
butter  until  the  onions  are  reduced ;  then  add  half  a  pint  of 
wine  with  the  same  quantity  of  brown  sauce,  and  consom-^ 
m^  as  in  the  last  receipt;  or  sufficient  to  stew  the  fish  in^ 
whe|i  dressed  remove  the  fish  without  breaking,  strain  the 
gravy  into  a  fresh  stewpan,  add  a  couple  of  table-spoonfols 
of  anchovy  or  more  according  to  the  quantity,  with  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  to  thicken  it.  Squeeze 
in  a  little  lime  juice,    and   work  the   whole   over    the    fire 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND     COOKEKY.  119 

until   smootli   and  thick;   remove   the    skin' from   the  fish  if 
Iwge,  place  it   in  a   dish,   and   cover   it  with  the  sauce^ 

Put    a  piece  of    butter    into   a   stewpan 
Italian  Sauce,      with  two  spoonfuls  of    chopped   mushrooms, 
ujAite.  one   of  onion  and  some    parsley;   turn  the 

whole  over  the  fire  some  time  and  shake 
in  a  little  flour,  moisten  it  with  a  glass  of  white  wine  and 
as  much  good  consomm^  or  both ;  add  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
little  mace  pounded  fine,  let  it  boil  well;  then  skim  away 
the  fat  and  serve  it  up.  A  higher  flavour  may  be  given 
to  it  whilst  boiling  by  putting  in  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
which  take   out   before  it  is  served. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  two  slices  of  ham,  a 
Brown.  handful  of  minced  mushrooms  and  a  sliced 
lemon  without  the  seeds,  a  spoonful  of  minced 
shallot  blanched  and  wrung  in  a  cloth,  half  a  clove  of  garlic, 
and  a  gill  of  oil;  when  nearly  ready  take  out  the  lemon, 
add  a  spoonful  of  minced  parsley,  a  spoonful  of  espagnole, 
a  glass  of  white  wine,  a  little  pepper;  reduce,  and  take 
out  the  ham. 

Take  a  stewpan  that  will  hold  four  quarts ; 

Strong  iovou"      lay    a  slice    or   two    of  ham   or    bacon    at 

ry  gravy  or        the    bottom    with   two    pounds   of    beef  or 

broiwn  Sattce,     veal,   a  carrot,     an  onion    with  four   cloves, 

a    head    of    celery,     some    parsley,    lemon, 

thyme,    and   a  little    lemon    peel,   some    mushroom  catsup, 

four  or  five   spoonfuls  with  a  glass   of  wine ;  pour  on  this- 

half  a  pint    of    water;    cover  it   close    and  let   it  simmer 

gently  for  half  an  hour,  when  it  will  be  almost  dry.    Watch 

it  carefully,    and  let  it  get  a   nice   brown   colour,  turning 

the   meat  to  brown  on  all  sides ;  add  three  pints  of  boiling 

water,    and  boil    gently   for   a  couple  of  hours;  you   have 

then  a   rich   gravy   for   any   purpose. 

Obs. — If    you    require    a     thick     gravy,    mix    two  table- 
spoonfuls   of  arrowroot,  or  three     of  flour   with  a  ladle-ful 


Digitized  by 


Google 


120  INDIAN  DOMESTIC   £CONOVT 

of  the  gravy;  stir  it  quick,  and  add  a  quart  more  of  the 
grarj  well  mixed ;  pour  it  back  into  the  stewpan^  and 
leave  it  to  simmer^  stirring  it  every  now  and  then.  Re- 
move any  scum  that  may  appear  when  just  ready  to  strain 
through   a  tammis  or  coarse  towel. 

Warm  three  table-spoonfuls  of  butter  or 
WAiie  JBonx.  more  over  a  slow  fire^  then  drain  off  all 
the  butter-milk,  or  wat^r,  shake  in  by  de- 
grees with  a  dredger,  flour  sufficient  to  form  it  into  a  thin 
paste,  keep  stirring  over  the  fire,  at  a  proper  distance  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  take  care  not  to  let  it  lose  its 
colour. 

Is    prepared   in    a  similar  manner,   as  to 

Brown  Boux        forming  the  paste,  when  it  is  to  be  slowly 

fried,   and  then  removed   over  a    sharp  fire 

until  it  has  become  of  a  light   brown  colour ;  it   most  not 

be  burnt. 

Break  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  in  a  basin  and 

Liaison.        beat  them  up  with  eight  spoonfuls  of  cream,  or 

six  of  new  milk ;  strain  it,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Clean  nicely  and  divide  into  small  pieces 
Celery  Sauee.  the  white  part  of  three  or  four  heads  of 
celery;  boil  it  in  some  white  stock;  season 
with  a  little  white  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg;  when  it  is 
tender  add  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  and  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream ;  warm  it  but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  pour 
it  over  boiled  turkey  or  fowL 

Its    flavour  is  a  strong    concentration    of 

Chervil  Sauce,     the    combined  taste  of    parsley  and  fennel^ 

but    more     aromatic    and     agreeable    than 

either,    and  is  an  excellent   sauce   with    boiled    poultry    or 

fish;  prepare  it   as  directed  for  parsley   and  butter. 


Digitized  by 


Google" 


AND    OOORBRT.  121 

Pound  together   an   ounce   of  scraped  horse 
Coid  Meat       radish,  half  an  ounce  of    salt,  a  table-spoonful 
Sauce.  of  made   mustard,   four   cloves   of  garlic,  half 

a  drachm  of  celery  seed,  and  the  same  quan- 
tity of  red  pepper,  adding  a  pint  of  Burnet  or  Tarrogan 
vinegar ;  let  it  stand  in  a  wide-mouth  stoppered  bottle  for 
a  week  or  ten  days,  and  then  strain  through  a  sieve  or  coarse 
cloth. 

Boil  three  or  four  eggs  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
Effff  Sauce.        put  them  into   cold  water,  take  off  the  shells, 
cut  the  eggs  into  small  pieces,  mix  them  with 
melted  butter,  and  heat  them  well. 

Pound  two  cloves  of  garlic  with  a  piece  of 

OarUc  Sauce,   fresh  butter  about  as  big  as  a  nutmeg,  rub  it 

through  a  double  hair  sieve  or  cloth,  and  stir 

it  into  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter   or  beef  gravy,  or  make  it 

With  garlic  vinegar. 

Prepare    the    peas    as    by   receipt   (French 

Crreen  Fetit     mode) ;  then  take  ^  few  cabbage  and  cos  let- 

Pins  a  la  Pay  tuces,   a   good  handful  of  parsley,    and  a  few 

Sauce*  green    onions;     wash    them    clean   and    break 

them   with  your  fingers     instead  of    chopping 

them ;  drain  the  lettuce,  parsley,  and  onions ;    and  sweat  them 

with  the   peas   over  a  very   slow  fire ;  you  need  not  put  any 

other  moistui^  than  the  butter  :  take  care  to  stir  the  stewpaii 

repeatedly  to    prevent  the    vegetables   from  burning;  when 

they  are   done    enough,   add  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  reduce 

the  liquid,   and  add  flour   and  butter  to   thicken  it    as  for 

peas   dressed   in  the  common    way. 

Wash  'half  a   handful   of  young,   fresh   ga- 

Uint  Sauce,      thered     green     mint,     pick    the    leaves    from 

the  stalk,     mince    them    very    fine,    and    put 

them  into  a   sauce-boat   with  a   spoonful   of  moist   sugar  and 

four   of   vinegar. 

% 


Digitized  by 


Google 


122  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  BCONOMT 

Obs, — This   is   usually   served  with  hot  lamb^  and  is  equally 
agreeable  with    cold  roast^   or  saddle  of  mutton. 

Is   made  as  truffle   sauce,  or  with  wine  and 
Morel  Sauce     stock   or  glaze   and   melted  butter;  when  the 
morel   powder    is  used,   small   dice   of    mush- 
rooms may   be   added. 

Clean    and     wash     half    a    pint    of   mush- 
MusAroom        rooms,   put   them   into   a   saucepan  with  half 
Sauce.  a   pint   of    veloute   or   any   other  rich   sauce, 

white  or  brown,  with  or  without  cream, 
a  little  pepper,  salt  and  mace,  an  ounce  of  butter  rubbed 
with  a  table-spoonful  of  flour;  stir  them  together^  and 
set  them  over  a  gentle  fire  to  stew  slowly  till  tender ;  skim 
and  strain  it. 

06i. — Mushrooms  require  slow  simmering,  and  ought 
always  to  be  weU  cooked  before  they  are  put  into  ragouts 
or  sauces. 

Take   half  a  pint  of  good  beef  g^a^7,   three 
Mock  Oyster    table-spoonfuls     of     anchovy     sauce,    two     of 
Saiice.  mushroom    catsup,   one  of    vinegar,    and    one 

of  white  wine ;  mix ;  then  take  the  yolk 
of  two  eggs  well  beaten  up,  some  corns  of  black  pepper, 
a  small  quantity  of  mace,  mix  the  whole  together  adding  a 
large  cup  of  hot  new  milk,  and  stir  into  it  a  pat  of  butter 
that  has  been  well  rolled  in  arrowroot  or  fine  flour,  and 
boil  the   same   carefully. 

Wash  the  liver  of  a  fowl  or  rabbit,  and  boil 
Liver  and  in  as  little  water  as  possible  for  five  minutes. 
Parsley.  chop  it  fine  or  pound  it  with  a  small  quantity 
of  the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in ;  wash  about  one* 
third  of  the  bulk  of  parsley,  put  it  to  boil  in  a  little  boiling 
water  with  salt  in  it ;  drain  and  mince  it  very  fine,  mix 
it  with  the  liver  and  put  it  into  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
melted   butter;   warm  it,   but   do   not  let   it  boil. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  188 

Boast    four    large    onions,   peel    and     pulp 

Onm  Sauce,     them  into  a  rich     stock  with   salt^    cayenne^ 

and  a  glass  of    port,   a   little   vinegar  or   the 

juice  of  half  a   lemon,   simmer  and  beat  up   with    a  bit  of 

butter. 

Take  half  a  dozen   of  large  white  onions, 
Ftiie  Onion        peel   and  cut  them   in   halves,  lay   them   in 
Sauce,  water   for   a  short  time,  and  then  boil  until 

tender ;  lay  them  on  a  chopping  board, 
chop  and  braise  them,  put  them  into  a  clean  saucepan  with 
some  batter  and  flour,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  some 
cream  or  good  milk,  stir  it  till  it  boils ;  then  rub  the  whole 
through  a  tammis  or  sieve,  adding  cream  or  milk  to  make 
it  of  the  consistence  you  wish.  This  is  the  usual  sauce 
for  boiled  rabbit,  mutton,  boiled  goose,   or  tripe. 

Beard  the  oysters,  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
Ojfiter  Sauce,  pan  with  their  liquor  strained^  and  a  large 
piece  of  butter,  a  few  black  pepper-corns, 
a  little  salt,  red  pepper,  and  a  blade  of  mace ;  simmer 
gently  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  but  do  not  allow  them 
to  boil;  roll  some  butter  in  a  little  flour  or  arrowoot 
aod  melt  it,  adding  a  little  milk  ;  pick  out  the  pepper  corns 
and  mace  from  the  oysters,  and  pour  upon  them  the  melted 
butter. 

Beard    the     oysters,    strain    the     liquor, 
0yster9,to  steta    add   it   to  some   rich     brown  gravy    thick- 
im  brown  Sauce,    ened   with    flour    and   a  little    butter,  add 
•  some   white  wine   according  to  the  number 

of  oysters,  boil  it,  and  put  in  the  oysters  and  stew  them 
gently  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  ;  before  serving  add 
a  Kttle  lime  juice  or  vinegar ;  a  few  sippets  of  very  thinly 
crisp   toast   may  be  put    round   the   dish. 

Beard  and  scald  the   oysters  ;  strain    the 

WUie  Sauce.         liquor  and  thicken  it  with  a  little  flour  and 

butter ;   add    some  sail;,   white  pepper,   and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


IM  INDIAN    DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

two    or  three   table-spoonfuls   of  cream ;    squeeze  ia   a   little 
lemon  juice  ;  simmer  gently,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 

Goose  Sauce.      See  Apple  or  green  papaw. 

Wash  some  parsley  very  clean  and  pick 
Parsley  Sauce,  it  carefully  ;  put  a  tea-spoonful  tff  salt,  into 
half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  ;  boil  the  parsley 
about  ten  minutes  ;  drain  it  on  a  sieve  ;  mince  it  quite 
fine,  and  then  bruise  it  to  a  pulp  ;  put  it  into  a  sauce-boat, 
and  mix  with  it,  by  degrees,  about  half  a  pint  of  good 
melted  butter. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  veal  gravy,    add  to  it 
Sauce  for  two   or  three   leaves    of  basil,   a  small  onion 

Wild  Ducks,  and  a  roll   of  orange   or  lemon   peel,   and  let 
it  boil  up  for  a  few   minutes  ;    strain  it   off. 
Put  to   the  clear   gravy  the    juice    of    a  Seville  orange    or 
lime,    half     a  tea-spoonful   of    salt,  some    pepper,    cayenne, 
and    a  glass    of  red  wine ;    send  it   up    hot. 

Peel  the  onions — large  white  are  the 
Onion  Sauce,  best — and  put  them  on  the  fire  in  cold 
water;  when  it  boils,  pour  off  the  water 
and  fill  up  with  fresh  hot  water — and  repeat  if  necessary — 
to  remove  out  the  strength  of  the  onions;  lastly,  boil  in 
milk  and  water  ;  when  quite  soft,  squeeze  the  onions  be- 
tween two  plates,  place  them  on  a  chopping  board  and 
chop  them  quite  fine,  or  rub  them  through  a  coarse  sieve; 
add  .  melted  butter  with  cream  or  milk  with  pepper,  and 
salt  to   taste.  « 

Bruise  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  set  it  over 
Pudding  Sauce,  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  with  just  as  much 
water  as  will  cover  it,  give  it  a  boil  and 
then  put  in  a  couple  of  table-spoonfiils  of  fine  sugar  pounded, 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  Mrhite  wine,  some  thin  pared  lime 
peel  and  three  or  four  peach  leaves,  boil  all  together  gently, 
strain,   and  send  it  up  hot. 


I 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  J  25 

Two    glasses  of  sherry   or    madeira;   a  table- 
Anotker,      spoonful    of  poanded    sugar^   a  little    mace  and 
grated   lemon  peel^   mix  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  thick   melted  butter;   nutmeg   may   be   added. 

Melted    butter   made    thick  with   flour   sweet- 
Another.       ened   with  syrup,    and  flavoured   with  lime  juice 
and   essence   of  lemon. 

Pound  a  table-spoonful  of  capers  and 
Kelly's  Sauce,  one  of  minced  parsley  as  fine  as  possible, 
then  add  the  yolks  of  three  hard  eggs,  rub 
them  well  together  with  a  table-spoonful  of  mustard ; 
bone  six  anchovies  and  pound  them;  rub  them  through 
a  hair  sieve  and  mix  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  oil,  one 
of  vinegar,  one  of  shallot  ditto,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne 
pepper;  rub  all  these  well  together  in  a  mortar  till  tho- 
roughly incorporated;  then  stir  them  into  half  a  pint  of 
good  gravy  or  melted  butter,  and  put  the  whole  through 
a  sieve   or  tammis. 

Boil  the  liver  of  the  fish  and  pound  it 
Liver  Sauce  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  flour,  stir  it  into 
for  FuL  some  broth  or  some  of  the  liquor  the  fish 
was  boiled  in,  or  melted  butter,  parsley 
and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  with  a  little  essence  of  anchovy, 
give  it  a  boil  up  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve;  you  may 
add  a   little  lime  juice  or  lemon   cut  in  dice. 

Pare   ofif  the  rind   of  a   lime   or  of  a  sour 
Lemon  and  orange  as  thin  as  possible,    so  as  not  to  cut 

Liver  Sauce.  off  any  of  the  white  with  it;  now  take  off 
all  the  white  and  cut  the  lemon  into  thin 
dices,  pick  out  the  pips  and  divide  the  slices  into  small 
squares,  add  this  and  a  little  of  the  peel  minced  very  fine 
to  the  liver  prepared  as  for  liver  and  parsley  sauce,  and  put 
them  into  the  melted  butter  and  warm  them  together,  but 
do  not  let  them  boil. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


126  INDIAN    DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

Steep   a   quarter  of  a  pound   of  rice   in  a 

Rice  Sauce.  pint  of  milk^     with    onion^   pepper,   fee,    as 

bread  sauce;   when  the  rice    is  quite  tender 

(take   out  the    spice)   rub   it   through   a  sieve    into    a  clean 

stewpan;   if  too  thick,   put   a   little  cream  or   milk   to  it. 

This  is   a  very  delicate  white  sauce,   and  may   be     served 
instead   of  bread  sauce.. 

Cut  some  onions  into  small  dice;  fry 
Bobert  Sauce.  them  of  a  fine  brown ;  moisten  them  with 
^  some  spinach  sauce  or  dust  them  with  flour 
and  moisten  them  with  some  veal  gravy;  skim  it  that  the 
sauce  may  look  bright;  put  in  a  little  pepper  and  salt, 
and,  just  before  you  send  up,   mix   a   spoonful  of  mustard. 

Babbit  Sauce.  See  onion. 

Bagout  Sauce.        See  beef  gravy  brown  sauce. 

Take  the  yolk  of  two  fresh  eggs  boiled 
Salad  Sauce.  hard,  mash  in  a  plate  with  a  silver  fork; 
then  add  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt  and  two 
spoonfuls  of  mustard;  rub  the  whole  well  together,  add  by 
degrees  three  spoonfuls  of  sweet  oil  or  fresh  cream;  thea 
two  of  good  vinegar,  stirring  it  well  the  whole  time  antil 
quite  smooth:  a  spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce  is  sometimes 
added;  but  is  no  improvement  if  the  salad  is  to  be  eaten 
with  cold  meats,  though  it  may  be,  if  with  fish,  prawns, 
or  lobsters. 

Bruise  down  the  yolks  of  two  hard  eggs 
Scotch  Sauce  in  a  basin ;  add  a  large  spoonful  of  mus- 
for  raw  Salads,  tard ;  rub  them  together  with  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  ketchep,  one  of  tarragon  and  two  of 
white  wine  vinegar,  and  a  tea-cupful  of  thick  cream;  these 
are  all  to  be  well  incorporated  together,  and,  when  the 
salad  is  nicely  cut  and  ornamentally  dressed  in  the  salad 
dish,   pour  the   sauce  equally  all  over   it. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  127 

German  salad  Sweet   oil   and    vinegar  mixed  together  in 

SoMce.  equal    proportions  quite   smooth. 

A  quarter   of  a     pint    of  claret  or  port- 
Sauee  for  wine,  the     same  quantity   of  mutton    gravy, 

venisan  or  and   a  table-spoonful   of  currant  jelly ;    let  it 

iare.  just   boil  up,  and  send  to  table  in  a   sauce- 

boat,   or   serve  up  with   a  little  red  currant 
jelly   dissolved    in  port-wine   or   claret. 

May  be   made   with  equal   parts   of  tama- 
Siarp  S/iuce        rind  jelly   and  clear    gravy;    or  half  a  pint 
of  best   white   wine  vinegar   and  four   table- 
spoonfuls   of  pounded   sugar ;   set   it    over   the   fire,    skim  it 
carefully,   and    strain    through    a   cloth   and   serve  it   hot. 

Pick  and  remove  all  the  stalks ;  wash 
Spinach  Sauce,  and  drain  the  leaves ;  stew  them  without 
water  till  they  will  beat  to  a  mash  ;  put  in 
some  butter  and  a  little  milk;  simmer  and  stir  over  a 
dow  fire  till  the  sauce  be  of  the  consistence  of  thick  melt- 
ed butter.     Add  a  little   pepper  and    salt  while   dressing. 

Sorrel,  like  spinach,  shrinks  very  much 
S&rrel  Sauce,  in  dressing.  Pick  and  wash  it  clean,  put 
it  into  a  st^wpan  with  one  ounce  of  but- 
ter ;  cover  close  and  set  over  a  slow  fire  for  a  quarter  of 
sn  hour ;  then  rub  through  a  coarse  hair  sieve ;  season 
vith  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  a  small  lump  of  sugar; 
squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  make  the  whole 
thoroughly   hot. 

Take  a  pint  of  beef  gravy  thickened,  a 
Turile  Sauce,  wine-glassful  of  madeira,  the  juice  and  peel 
of  a  lime,  a  few^  leaves  of  basil,  a  clove  of 
girUc,  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  little  essence 
of  anchovy ;  let  them  simmer  together  for  five  minutes, 
sid  strain  through  a  tammis. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


128  INDIAN    DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 

Take  of  green  sliced  mangoes^  salt,  sa- 
Tapp^9  Sauce,  gar  and  raisins  each  eight  ounces  ;  red  chil- 
lies and  garlic  each  four  ounces ;  green  gin- 
ger six  ounces;  vinegar  three  bottles;  lime-juice  one  pint. 
Pound  the  several  ingredients  well;  then  add  the  vinegar 
and  lime  juice ;  stop  the  vessel  close,  and  expose  it  to  the 
sun  a  whole  month,  stirring  or  shaking  it  well  daily ;  then 
strain  it  through  a  cloth,  bottle  and  cork  it  tight. 
04*.— The  residue  makes  an    excellent   chutney. 

Prepare  half  a  pint  of  dear  gravy,  roll 
Sauce  for  grills,  a  table-spoonful  of  butter  in  the  same  quan- 
tity of  flour  or  arrowroot ;  take  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  mushroom  catsup,  one  spoonful  *  of  mustard, 
a  small  quantity  of  chopped  capers,  the  juice  of  a  lime 
with  some  of  the  peel  grated,  salt,  black  pepper,  and  either 
a  chopped  green  chilli,  or  cayenne  pepper„  simmer  together 
for  a  few  minutes,  pour  a  little  over  the  grill,  and  serve 
the  rest   in   a  sauce  tureen. 

Obe, — A  tea-spoonful  of    anchovy  and  a  little   wine    may 
be  added. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  clear  gravy,   cut  into 
Sauce  for  game^    it  the   thin  peel  of   a   lime,  a  few   leaves   of 
ducky  snipe,  8fc,  basil,   or  sage,  with   a  small  sliced   onion,  let 
it  boil   until  the     gravy   is   flavoured,   then 
strain  it  off.     Add    the    juice  of    the  lime,   some   cayenne 
pepper,  a  glass  of  red  wine,  pepper  and  salt.     Send  it  up  hot. 
Obs. — ^This  sauce   may  be   served  with  all  kinds  of  water 
fowl,  and  is  preferable   to  dressing  the  bird   at  table  as  is 
commonly  the    case.     Wild  fowl   being  liked  by  some   per- 
sons  under-done,    and   without  sauce.     Snipe  particularly  so. 

Gravies  should  always   be  served  in  a  covered  sauce    tu- 
reen quite  hot. 

JDolicios   Soya         Take   fresh    soy   eight     ounces,   chilli    vi- 
Sauce.  negar  one  pint,   garlic    vinegar  one  quarter 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKXET.  129 

of  an  ounce^  ^rrup  eight  ounces^  port  wine  or  Yin  de  Tinto 
one  pint^  salt  fonr  ounces,  tart  acid  one  ounce,  mix  the 
whole  well    together. 

For  soup,  fish,  meat,    steaks,   &c. 

Clarified.  Veal  or   beef  gravy  is  to  be  clarified  with 

whites  of  eggs. 

Most  joints  will  afford  sufficient  trim- 
Gravy  ybr  mings,  &c.  to  make  half  a  pint  of  plain 
roaatmeat,  gravy,  which  you  may  colour  with  a  few 
drops  of  browning  about  half  an  hour  before 
yon  think  the  meat  will  be  done;  mix  a  salt-spoonful 
of  salt  with  a  full  quarter  pint  of  boiling  water;  drop 
this  by  degrees  on  the  brown  parts  of  the  joint;  set  a 
dish  under  to  catch  it ;  (the  meat  will  soon  brown  again) 
8et  it  by  as  it  cools,  the  fat  will  settle  on  the  surface; 
when  the  meat  is  ready,  remove  this  and  warm  up  the 
gravy    and  pour  it  into    the   dish. 

May   be   made  with  the  parings  and  trim- 

Gravjffor        mings ;    or    pour    from  a  quarter    to   half  a 

boUedtneat  pint   of  the    liquor   in  which  the    meat    was 

boiled  into  the   dish  with   it,  and   pierce  the 

inferior   part  of  the   joint  with   a  sharp   skewer. 

These  are  procured  in  all  parts  of  India 
Mushroom  during  the  rains,  and  to  make  your  own 
Calsup.  catsup  will  not  only  be  found  economical  but 
it  will  be  far  stronger  and  better  than  can  ever 
be  purchased.  Take  as  many  as  you  please  of  large  flap 
mushrooms  that  are  of  a  reddish  brown  ins^e  ,(peel  off 
the  top  skin  or  not,  but  wipe  them  clean)  ano^lay  in  ihfi 
bottom  of  a  deep  dish;  sprinkle  them  over  ml),  clean 
salt;  then  add  another  layer  of  mushrooms  and  mc^^, sal^, 
and  so  continue  until  the  dish  or  pan  is* full;  ist  thsjp. 
remain  for  about  eight  or  twelve  hours ;  then  i^iash  up 
the  whole;    strain   off  the    juice   to    each  pint,    aijd    ha^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


180  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

an  ounce  of  black  pepper  and  about  forty  or  fifty  cloves; 
put  the  whole  into  a  stone  jar  and  place  the  jar  covered 
over  in  a  saucepan  of  water,  and  let,  it  boil  until  about  one- 
third  or  one-half  has  evaporated ;  then  set  the  whole  by  to 
cool  and  settle ;  when  strain  it  off  clear  into  pint  or  half 
pint  bottles,  adding  to  each  pint  a  table-spoonful  of  brandy ; 
if  you  have  any  claret  that  has  been  opened  or  otherwise, 
you  may  add  a  wine  glass  to  each  pint  or  more  as  you 
please — it   preserves    the   catsup    better   in   this  country. 

Having   prepared  the   mushrooms   as  above. 
Another.  strain    them    through  a  cloth    and    put    the 

juice  into  a  clean  saucepan  and  boil  the 
whole  gently,  taking  off  all  the  scum  as  it  rises;  when 
boiled  down  to  about  one-half,  add  a  little  wine  in  the 
proportion  of  a  glass  to. each  pint;  remove  it  from  the  fire 
and  put  into  a  jug  to  cool  and  settle ;  when  strain  it  off 
clear  and  bottle,  putting  into  each  a  few  cloves  previous 
to  corking,  which  should  be  well  secured  by  wax  or  dammer. 

Six    seers    or    twelve     English   pounds    will 
Mustard.  give,  if  the  seed  is  fresh,  three  pints  of  good 

clear  oU;  this  is  the- best  for  pickles  and  is  pre- 
ferred by  all  natives  for  the  purpose.  To  prepare  the 
seed  so  as  to  remove  the  husks  or  skin  more  effectually 
than  is  usually  done,  it  is  necessary  to  soak  it  in  water 
for  a  couple  of  days;  changing  it  once  or  twice,  then  put  it 
out  in  the  sun  to  dry;  after  which  have  the  seed  only 
bruised  with  a  grinding  stone  and  the  husks  removed  by 
a  winnowing  fan  which  will  make  the  seed  clean  and  fit 
for  grinding  and  other  domestic  purposes.  Mix  (by  de- 
grees, by  rubbing  together  in  a  mortar)  the  best  flour  of 
lyiustard  with  vinegar,  white  wine,  or  cold  water  in  which 
scraped  horse-radish  has  been  boiled;  rub  it  well  together 
till  it  is  perfectly  smooth,  and  only  make  as  much  as  will 
be  used  in  a  day  or  two.  Mustard  is  sometimes  made 
by  mixing  it  with  cream,  sherry,  or  madeira  wine,  or  dis- 
tilled or  flavoured  vinegar  instead  of  horse-radish  water. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  131 

Obs. — The  French  mix  tlieir  mustard  with  wines  and 
vinegar^  flavoured  with  various   sorts   of  sweet   herbs. 

Take   four    ounces     of  butter;  put    it   into 
Melted  But-    a    small  clean    saucepan    over    the  fire  with 
ter.  four    or    five   table-spoonfuls  of  milk;   thicken 

it  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  the  finest  flour,  or 
with  arrowroot  not  quite  so  much,  else  it  will  be  too 
thick ;  then  add  a  small  wine  glass  of  water ;  hold  it  over 
the  fire ;  shaking  it  round  (all  the  same  way)  till  it  begins 
to* simmer;  then  let  it  stand  and  boil  up.  It  should  be 
the  thickness  of  cream. 

Oi#. — Instead  of  the  milk  add  four  spoonfuls  of  mush- 
room catsup,  and  you  have  an  excellent  sauce  for  fish, 
flesh,   or  fowL    If  the  butter   oils     pour  it  backwards   and 

forwards  from  the  butter  boat  to   the     stewpan  until  it  is 
smooth  again. 

Take  any  quantity  of  butter ;  put  it 
Clarified  But-  into  a  saucepan  over  a  clear  fire ;  as  soon 
ier  or  Ghee,  as  it  boils,  the  process  should  be  conduct- 
ed gently ;  take  off  the  butter-milk  and 
then  gently  let  it  simmer  until  the  watery  particles  are 
all  evaporated  and  removed;  when  nearly  cool  pour  off 
the  butter,  carefully  leaving  any  sediment  behind.  This 
preparation  will  keep  good  for  years,  only  see  that  the 
vessel   in  which  it  is    to   be  put   is   dry   and    clean. 

Put   two    ounces    of    fresh   butter    into  a 
Butter  burnt.      frying   ^an;    when    it    becomes    of  a    dark 
brown     colour,     add    a     couple    of    spoon- 
fuls  of  vinegar    with   a   little    pepper     and     salt,   serve  for 
boiled  fish  or  poached  eggs. 

Beat  and  strain    ten     or  twelve  eggs;   put 

Buttered          a  piece   of  butter  into  a  saucepan :  keep  turn- 

Egg9,            ing   it   one  way  till  melted  ;   put  in  the   beaten 

eggs   and   stir  them  with    a  spoon  until  they 


Digitized  by 


Google 


18£  INDIAN    IK>Vl8TIc]][lC0N01fT    AND    COOKXKT. 

become   quite  thick ;  serve  upon   buttered  toast.    They  may 
be  eaten  with  fish^  fowl,   or  sausages. 

Chop  half  a  dozen    hard    boiled  eggs ;  put 
Another.  them  into    a  saucepan  with  half  a  tea-cupful 

of  cream,  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  little  mace, 
salt,  and  pepper;  add  a  little  shallot  or  chiTes  minced 
or  the  same  quantity  of  white  onion;  stir  it  till  quite 
hot^  but  it  must  not  boil. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTER   IX. 


BEEP, 


When  oldy  has  a  coarse  gram,  the  fibres  are  tough  and 
of  a  dark  colour,  with  a  deep  red  tinge  ;  young  meat  is 
quite  the  reverse.  The  flesh  of  ok  beef,  to  be  good,  will 
have  a  smooth  open  grain,  of  a  light  red,  and  feel  ten- 
der ;  the  fat  rather  white  than  yellow.  An  ox  that  has 
not  been  over-worked,  of  a  middling  age  and  stall-fed, 
famishes  finer  beef  than  even  a  cow.  The  grain  of  cow 
beef  is  closer  than  that  of  an  ox,  and  not  of  so  bright  a 
red ;  the  fat  whiter.  The  meat  of  bull  beef  has  a  strong 
scent,  is  much  darker  and  coarser  in  the  grain  and  of  a 
deep  red,  with  coarse  yellow  fat.  Old  meat  is  always 
tough,  and  if  the  animal  has  been  much  worked,  no 
feeding,  keeping,  or  preparation  will  make  the  meat 
tender. 

Obi, — ^The  baron  of  beef,  so  famed  in  old  English  hos- 
pitality and  now  rarely  produced  at  any  but  civic  feasts, 
being  the  most  substantial  dish  of  all,  is^  the  same  joint 
in  beef  that  a  saddle  is  in  mutton,   and   is   always    roasted. 

Take  four  pounds  of  beef  or  veal ;    cut 
Alamode  Beef     it  into^  pieces  of  about    four   ounces    each  ; 
(rr  V%al.  dip  them  into  common   and    equal    quantity 

of  shallot  vulvar  ;  then  roll  them  in  the 
following  seasoning  :  grated  nutmeg,  black  pepper  and  all- 
spice, two  or  three  cloves  and  some  salt,  all  of  which  have 
been  pounded;  add  to  this  parsley,  lemon  thyme,  maijo- 
ram,  and  any   other  sweet  herbs  shred  fine  ;  put  into  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


134  INDIAN    DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

stewpan  some  fine  suet  or  beef  lard,  with  any  dressings 
from  the  meat,  and  let  it  melt  over  the  fire.  Dredge  the 
meat  with  flour  and  put  into  the  stewpan  with  three  or 
four  onions  stack  with  spice,  and  two  or  three  cloves  of 
garlic  to  every  two  pounds  of  beef ;  shake,  turn,  and  look 
to  it  constantly  until  it  is  well  browned  on  all  sides  ;  add 
a  large  cut  carrot  to  every  pound  of  meat,  and  a  pint 
of  browned  boiling  water,  some  salt,  pepper,  and  allspice  ; 
fix  the  top  of  the  stewpan  down  with  common  flour  or 
Atta  paste,  and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire  to  simmer  gently 
from  three  to  four  hours  ;  when  done  if  it  is  not  thick 
enough,  take  out  a  little  of  the  stock,  and  when  cool, 
thicken  wij;h  some  ground  rice  flpur,  and  give  it  time  to 
cook. 

Obs. — Wine  or  acids  may  be  added  ;  it  is  usual  in  London 
to  serve   this   up  with  endive,  beet,  or  any   other  salad. 

Take  the  bone  out  of  a  small  round  of 
Alamode  Beef  beef ;  rub  it  well  with  four  ounces  of  salt- 
another  way.  petre  and  half  a  pound  of  moist  sugar ; 
then  place  it  on  a  board  or  dresser  and 
cover  it  with  another  board,  putting  over  it  some  very  heavy 
stones  ;  let  the  juice  drain  from  the  meat  for  twelve  hours  ; 
then  rub  the  meat  well  with  common  bay  salt,  and  a  few 
cut  limes  with  a  little  spirit,  if  you  please,  for  three  or 
four  consecutive  times,  morning  and  evening,  according 
to  the  weather,  and  longer,  if  possible;  then  clear  the  brine" 
from  the  meat  and  fillet  it  up  firmly.  Prepare  a  stuffing 
of  chopped  parsley,  thyme,  two  or  three  anchovies  or  a 
spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce,  mace,  black  pepper,  and  a  little 
butter,  with  a  sprinkling  of  allspice ;  make  holes  every 
here  and  there  over  the  meat  and  put  in  the  stufiiug  ;  put  it 
in  a  pan  that  will  just  hold  it,  and  fill  it  up  with  cold  water  ; 
add  some  whole  black  pepper  and  cover  with  a  common  paste  ; 
bake  it  for  several  hours  ;  when  cold  take  ofi^  the  crust  and 
all  the  fat,   and  serve  it  up  in  the  pan. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKEBT.  133 

The  pieces  generally  selected  for  this 
Beef  Collared  purpose  are  the  thin  flanks^  short  ribs,  and 
and  served  in  leg  boned,  all  the  coarse  sinews  being  re- 
various  ways*  moved  and  may  be  prepared  in  the  fol- 
lowing way :  If  the  collar  is  to  be  roasted, 
sprinkle  the  meat  with  garlic  or  any  seasoned  vinegar;  brush 
it  with  egg,  and  stew  over  some  sweet  herbs,  cooked  oysters 
or  mushrooms  or  any  force  meat,  or  lay  slices  of  bacon  in 
tl)e  middle  and  season  highly;  then  braise  it  partially 
and  roll  and  tie  it  up  nicely  with  a  bandage  of  cloth ;  dip 
it  in  vinegar  and  if  the  weather  permits,  hang  it  up  for  three 
or  four  days,  and  cook  it  in  a  saucepan,  or  braise  it  and  let 
it  cool  in  the  cloth.  It  may  be  larded  and  roasted  and  served 
with  gravy,  or  brush  it  with  egg  sprinkled  with  crumbs, 
mushrooms,  &c.  Glaze  and  serve  it  as  other  roast  meats, 
or  it  may   be  served   cut   in  slices  when   cold. 

Take  a  shin,  or  leg  of  beef,  boned ;  remove 
Another  way,  all  the  coarse  sinews  and  nerves ;  stew  until 
quite  tender ;  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces ; 
season  with  some  sweet  herbs,  pepper  and  salt,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  mushroom  catsup,  the  same  of  wine  ;  put  it  into  a 
Etewpan  and  cover  with  the  liquor  in  which  the  beef  was 
dressed;  set  it  on  a  slow  fire  to  simmer  gently  for  half  an 
hour;  then  add  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs  or  pickled 
cucumbers;  mix  the  whole  together  and  put  it  into  a 
moold.     When  cold,   turn  it   out. 

When  salted  or  corned,  is  to  be  dressed  in 
Edge  bone        the  same   manner  as    a   round,   and  the  same 
accompanying  vegetables ;    it  may  also  be  roast- 
ed and  forced  with  oysters,  mushroom,   &c. 

Obs. — The   soft  fat-like  marrow  which  is  found   on  the  back 
is  best  when  hot,  and  the  hard  fat  near  the  end^  when  cold. 

When  salted  are  called  the  brisket  and  various 
&'i«  other  pieces  are  dressed  in  tlie  same  way  ;    but  seldom 

roasted  in  India. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


188  niDIAN   DOHBflTIC   SOONOMT 

Skewer  it  up  tight  of  a  proper  shape ;  tie  a  broad 
Bound.  band  round  it  to  keep  the  skewers  in  their  plaoes ; 
pat  it  into  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  carefiilly  take 
the  scum  off  as  it  rises.  Let  it  boil  until  all  the  scum  ii 
removed,  and  then  put  the  pot,  in  which  it  is,  on  one  side 
of  the  fire  to  simmer  slowly  until  it  is  done.  A  round 
of  fifteen  pounds  will  take  about  three  hours. 

Obs, — Serve  with  any  boiled  vegetables  as  a  garnish,  such 
as  carrots,  greens,  &c.  Peas  pudding  or  suet  is  a  good  ac- 
companiment.    The  outside  slices  may  be  used  for  potted  beef. 

Should  be  cut  from  the  best  part  of  the  rump 
Steaks  from  half  to   an  inch   thick.    There  is  a  great 

art  in  cutting  them  nicely  ;  and  as  they  are 
used  in  this  country  mostly  fresh,  they  require  to  be  beat 
with  a  light  roller  for  some  time.  Many  cooks  prick  them 
all  over  with  a  fork  ;  but  this  deprives  them  of  much  of  their 
flavour,  although  it  makes  them  appear   tender. 

The  time  of  cooking  cannot  be  precisely  laid  down,  as 
tastes  vary  so  much  in  that  point.  A  little  garlic,  onion, 
or  shallot  juice  may  be  put  into  the  dish  or  it  may  be 
rubbed  with  assafoetida.  Those  who  are  fond  of  a  good 
steak,  will  order  that  never  more  than  one  is  to  be  served 
at  the  same  time,  and  then  brought  hot  and  hot  from  the 
kitchen. 

Cut  the  steaks  off  the  rump,  or  ribs  of  a 
Grilled  or  fore-quarter ;  have  a  very  clear  fire  and  the 
broiled.  gridiron  clean  and  perfectly  hot;  lay  on  the 
steaks  with  meat  tongs,  turning  them  constantly 
until  they  are  done  enough :  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them 
before  taking  off  the  fire;  serve  perfectly  hot,  with  a  plain 
gravy  and  sliced  onions  raw  or  fried,  or  rub  a  little  batter 
over  the  steaks  the  moment  of  serving.  The  fat  to  be  served 
with  the  steaks  must  be  done  separately,  that  the  dripping  of 
the  grease  may  not  smoke  the  meat. 

Obs. — ^A    gridiron    that  has  its  bars   fluted  is  the  best  for 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKIRY.  137 

dressing  them  on^  as  the  gravy  is  preserved  aad  runs  into 
a  trough  at  the  end. 

Cut  the   steaks  the  same  as   for   broiling ; 

Fried.  prepare  in  the  same  way ;  put  some  butter  or 

ghee  into   a  frying  pan,  and   when  it   is  hot, 

lay  in  the  steaks  and  keep  turning  until  done  enough ;  serve 

iiot  with  mushroom,   oysters,  brown  or  any  other  sauce. 

OS*. — If  fried  onions  are  to  be  served  with  them,  they 
most  be  dressed  after  the  steaks  are  removed  from  the  pan, 
or  else  with  brown  onion  sauce  separately,  as  some  persons 
kave  an  objection  to  them.  Frying  steaks  is  the  custom  most 
geoerally  praetise>d  in  this  country,  and  as  the  meat  is  more 
equally  dressed,  evenly  browned  and  the  gravy  preserved,  per- 
haps it   is   preferable  to  broiling. 

Cut  the  steaks  from  off  a  rump,  or  any 
Sieak  Pie.  other  good  part  of  the  beef  (beat  them  with 
the  rolling  pin)  fat  and  lean  together  about 
kalf  an  inch  thick;  put  over  them  salt,  pepper,  and  par- 
boiled onions,  minced  or  grated  bread  seasoned  with  pep- 
per, salt,  and  pickled  cucumber  minced ;  roll  them  up  or 
p«ck  them  neatly  into  the  dish,  or  lay  the  beef  in  slices; 
add  some  .spoonfuls  of  gravy  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  vine* 
gu;  cover  with  a  puff  paste  and  bake  it  for  an  hour. 
08*. — ^In  Devonshire,  slices  of  apple  and  onions  are  add- 
ed; when  it  is  called  squab  pie. 

Cut  rump    steaks,   not 'too  thick ;   if  fresh 
Tnddin^.  they  must  be  beaten  with  a  roller  or  chopper ; 

cut  them  into  thin  pieces;  then  trim  off  all 
&e  skin,  sinews,  &c. ;  have  some  onions  peeled  and  chop- 
fine,  also  some  potatoes  peeled  and  cut  into  slices  a 
T  of  an  ,inch  thick;  rub  the  inside  of  a  mould  or 
in  with  butter ;  cover  it  with  paste ;  season  the  steaks  with 
tepper,  salt,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg;  put  in  a  layer  of 
s,  then  of  potatoes,  and  so -on  till  it  is  full,  occasional- 
crinkling  some  of  the    chopped  onions;  add   to  it  four 

s 


Digitized  by 


Google 


138  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   lOONOMT 

spoonfuls  of  mushroom  catsup,  a  little  lemon  pickle^  and  a 
wine  glass  of  broth  or  water.  RoU  out  a  top  and  close  it 
well  by  wetting  the  rims,  and  pressing  them  together  to 
prevent  the  water  getting  in;  dip  a  clean  cloth  in  hot  wa- 
ter; sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  it  and  tie  up  the  pud- 
ding; put  it  in  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water  and  boil  it 
two  hours  and  a  half;  take  it  up;  remove  the  cloth;  turn 
it  down  in  a  dish,  and  when  wanted  take  away  the  ba- 
son  or   mould. 

Oi*.— This  pudding  may  be  niade  in  half  the  time  by 
first  partly  dressing  the  steaks,  vegetables,  &c.,  in  a  stew- 
pan,  with  this  advantage  of  being  able  to  add  any  other 
seasoning  you  please,  such  as  oysters,  artichokes,  bottoms, 
&c.     Mock   oyster   sauce   may   be   served   with  it. 

Is   the   prime  part   for  roasting:   when   to    be 
Sirloin  of      used,   it  should   be   washed,    then   dried  with    a 
Beef  clean  cloth,   and   the   fat   covered   over  with   pa- 

per, tied  on  with  thread;  care  must  be  taken 
to  balance  the  meat  properly  upon  the  spit,  but  if  not 
exactly  right  it  is  better  to  make  it  equal  by  fastening  on 
a  leaden  headed  skewer;  then  pierce  it  again  with  the  spit. 
It  is  just  to  be  basted  with  a  httle  butter  or  dripping; 
and  afterwards  with  its  own  fat, -all  the  time  it  is  roasting. 
Just  before  being  taken  up  it  must  be  sprinkled  with  a 
little  salt;  then  dredged  up  with  flour,  and  basted  till  it 
is  frothed.  When  taken  from  the  spit,  a  little  boilmg  salt 
and  water  should  be  poured  along  the  bone  to  mix  with 
the  gravy ;  garnish  with  scraped  horse-radish,  and  slices  of 
Yorkshire  pudding. 

Ols, — A.  sirloin  will  take  about  one  quarter  of  an  hour 
for   each   pound   weight   roasting. 

Cut  them   through  the  broad   way   and  skewer 

Kidneys        them   flat ;   lay  them  in  a  marinade   of  oil,  vine- 

fried.  gar,  sliced  onions,    chopped  parsley   and   pepper; 

do  them  slowly  over  a  clear   fire,  and  baste  with 

A  little    butter ;    have   some    minced   parsley    to   strew   over 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANt)   COOKttRT.  1, 

the   edges;  sprinkle   a  liUle    fine  salt, over  them  and  laj  L 
the  centre  of  each  a  bit  of  fresh  butter,  and  serve   very   hot« 

Cut  across  and  fry  them,  and  finish  as  stew- 
Slewed.  ed  steaks  with  onions,  mushrooms,  &c. ;  or  cut 

them  in  pieces  and  serve  in  a  sauce  with  ket« 
chup,  lemon  pickle,   &c. 

Parboil,  skin,  and  cut  the  palates  into  strips^ 
Palates.  or  simmer   them  in    stock    until  the   skin   will 

come  off;  then  stew  them  in  stock  with  pep- 
per, salt,  a  glass  of  wine,  and  seasoning;  let  them  simmer 
slowly  until  quite  tender,  or  when  they  are  cut  into  strips, 
fry  an  onion  in  butter,  and  add  the  palates  and  a  few  sweet 
herbs ;  moisten  them  with  some  highly  seasoned  stock,  and 
when  ready  add  a  little  mustard. 

Take   the   steaks   from   the   middle    of  the 
Italian  Steaks,     rump   where   tender ;   rttb   them  with  pound- 
ed  mace,   pepper,   and  salt ;    put   them  into 
a  stewpan,    and     close  the    top   with  coarse   paste;   put   it 
over   hot   ashes   for   three   or   four  hours. 

Ohs. — ^An  k-la-blaize  pan   will  answer  the  purpose   better. 

Prepare  exactly  as  for  beef  stock    or  gravy. 
Extract.  but  instead    of  water    use   wine.   Cape,  Mar- 

sala, in  fact  any  white  wine  may  be  used; 
simmer  very  slow  with  the  top  of  the  pot  covered  with  fire, 
that   the   steam  may   not    evaporate. 

Obs, — Both  this  and  the  beef  gravy  may  be  made  with 
a  leg  of  beef  only,  the  ends  of  the  marrow  bone  must  be 
sawed  off,  and  to  prevent  the  marrow  from  flowing  it  must 
be  removed.  It  may  be  cooked  in  a  jar  in  an  oven  or 
bain-marie. 

Take   a    sirloin   and    carefully   cut   out    the 

lillet  of  Beef  inside     or     fillet     from     underneath,     leaving 

braised.        only    a     small .  portion   of  fat    at  the    sides, 

(lard    it    lengthwise    with    small    lardoons  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


140  INDIAN    DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 

fat  bacon)^  prepare  and  cut  into  slices,  four  onions,  one 
tuinip,  one  carrot,  one  head  of  celery,  one  leek,  a  hand' 
ful  of  parsley,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  and  four  peach  leaves, 
moisten  the  whole  with  a  cup  of  fresh  made  ghee  or  olive 
oil,  lay  your  fillet  in  a  deep  dish,  cover  with  the  vegetables 
and  let  it  remain  for  twelve  hours.  Then  place  the  iSUet  on 
a  light  spit,  spread  the  vegetables  on  two  or  three  sheets  of 
paper,  and  tie  it  carefully  round  with  a  twine,  so  that  the 
vegetables  may  not  drop  off  whilst  roasting.  Oil  the  paper, 
or  baste  it  with  warm  ghee  that  it  may  not  bum.  Boast 
it  a<:cording  to  its  size  for  an  hour  or  longer,  then  re- 
move the  vegetables,  brown  it  lightly  with  a  salamander 
and  it  is  ready  to  be  served  with  a  sauce  pur^e,  or  otherwise. 

Obs. — ^The  sirloin  may  be  boned  and  then  stewed  with 
the  same  kind  of  vegetables  as  are  used  for  preparing  the 
fillet,  by  putting  them  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  of  water, 
put  over  a  brisk  fire,  keep  stirring  it  the  whole  time  until 
reduced  to  a  glaze,  then  put  in  the  beef,  fill  the  stewpan 
with  water,  skim  it  while  boiling,  and  let  it  simmer  for  three 
or  four  hours.  Take  it  out  and  serve  with  a  good  flavoured 
sauce,   and  such    stewed    vegetables   as  may   be  in  season. 

Break   the   bones   of  a  leg  or  shin  of  beef; 

Qlaze.  cover  it  with  cold  water,  and  set  it  near  the 

fire    to   heat  gradually   till  it  nearly  boils,  for 

about  an  hour ;   skim  it  carefully  white  any  scum  rises ;  pour 

in  a  little  cold  water  to  throw  up  any  scum  that  may  remain ; 

let  it  come  to  a  boil  again,  and  skim  it  carefully.     When  the 

broth  appears  clear  let  it  boil  for  eight  or  ten  hours,  and   then 

strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  pan,  and  let  it  cool  (the  meat 

'may  be  used  for  potted  beef).    Next  day  remove  all  the  fat 

from  the  top  of  it,  and   pour  it   through  a   taramis  or  sieve  aa 

gently   as   possible  into  a  stewpan,   taking  care  not  to  let  any 

particle   of  the   settlings  at  the  bottom  go  into  the  stewpan, 

whicli  should  be  well  tinned,   if  made  of  iron.     Add  a  quarter 

of    ail   ounce  of  whole   black    pepper  to  it ;  let  it  boil   briskly 

with  the  pan  uncovered  on  a  brisk  fire ;  if  any  scum  arises,  it 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKJERT.  141 

must  be  removed  with  a  skimmer.  When  it  begins  to 
thicken  and  is  reduced  to  about  a  quarts  it  must  be  re- 
moved to  a  smaller  stewpan  ;  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire  till  it 
is  reduced  to  the  consistency  of  a  thick  syrup,  and  take  c€tre 
it  does  not  burn,  as  the  least  inattention,  and  your  labour 
is  lost.  Take  a  little  of  it  out  in  a  spoon,  and  let  it  cool  ; 
if  it  sets  into  a  strong  jeQy,  it  is  done  enough ;  if  it  does 
not,  boil  it  a  little  longer  till  it  does.  It  is  best  preserved 
in  small  fiat  earthen  pots,  or  else  if  you  prefer  it  in  the  form 
of  cakes  pour  it  into  a  dish  a  quarter  of  an  inch  deep  ;  when 
it  is  cold  turn  it  out,  and  divide  into  pieces  of  an  ounce 
and  a  half,  or  an  ounce  each ;  put  them  out  in  the  sun  to 
dry,  and  when  hardened  t  keep  in  a  canister  or  dry  place. 
Obs. — If  it  burns  it  acquires  a  very  disagreeable  acid 
flavour. 

A   stewed  brisket  cut   into    slices,  and  served 
Harricot.  with  the   same  sauce  of  vegetables  as  directed 

for   Harricot   mutton. 

Take  a  round  of  beef  ;  rub  it  well   with  three 
Hunters.  or  four  ounces  of  saltpetre  ;    put  a  board  with 

heavy  weights  upon  it  to  express  the  juice  ; 
eight  hours  after,  rub  the  beef  well  with  the  following  mixed 
ingredients :  Allspice  three  ounces,  cloves  two,  black  pepper 
one,  two  pounds  of  salt,  and  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar  ;  put 
it  into  a  large  pan,  and  have  the  meat  well  rubbed  every  twelve 
hours ;  squeeze  over  it  a  dozen  limes,  cut  in  halves,  with  a 
glass  of  brandy  ;  when  your  beef  is  ready,  cut  small  two  or 
three  potinds  of  beef  suet ;  put  one  half  in  the  bottom  of  the 
dish  under  the  beef,  and  the  rest  upon  the  top  ;  cover  it  with 
a  coarse  paste  of  common  flour  and  bake  it.  When  cold  take 
off  the   crust,  and  pour  off  the  gravy,    which  preserve. 

Cut  a  pound  of  lean  meat  into  thin  slices ; 
Tea*  put  it  in   two  pints  and  a   half  of  cold  water  ; 

set  it  over  a  very  gentle  fire  to  become  gra- 
dually  warm ;   remove  the  scum   as  it  rises ;  let  it  continue 


Digitized  by 


Google 


142  INDIAN   DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 

simmering  gently  for  an  hour  ;  strain  it  through  a  napkin, 
and  let  it  stand  ten  minutes  to  settle,  and  then  pour  off  the 
clear   tea. 

Obs. — ^The  meat,  if  boiled  till  tender,  may  be  used  for 
potted  beef.  Beef  tea  may  be  flavoured  by  the  addition  of  an 
onion  and  a  few  corns  of  black  pepper. 

Chop   some  boiled  white   cabbages,  or    the 

Bubble  and      heart    of    any    other    with      some     potatoes  ; 

Squeak.  season    with   salt,  pepper,   and   a  little  butter, 

and    some    slices   of  cold  boiled   salted    beef. 

Put  the  fried  cabbage  and  potatoes  into  a  d'sh,  and   by  round 

it  the  slices  of  beef   fried ;   serve   very  hot 

Obg. — ^The  meat   is  best    when    under-done. 

Take  three  pounds  of  well  boiled  salted 
Potted  Beef,  beef,  pick  out  any  gristles  or  skin,  mince 
it  fine.  Pound  the  meat  carefully  in  a  stone 
mortar  with  a  little  butter,  till  it  is  a  fine  paste  ;  season  it  by 
degrees,  while  you  are  beating  it,  with  black  pepper,  and 
allspice  or  cloves  pounded,  or  mace  or  grated  nutmeg ;  put 
it  in  pots ;  press  it  down  as  close  as  possible,  and  cover  it, 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  with  clarified  butter  or  beef 
suet ;   the  latter   is  best    for    India. 

Obs. — The  less  gravy  or  butter,  and  the  more  labour  ^ven 
to   pounding,   will  be  the   better,   if  you  wish  it  to  keep. 

Put  on  in  cold  water  a  brisket  of  beef  ; 
Hamburg.  when  it  boils,  skim  it  well ;  take  out  the 
beef,  and  let  it  cool,  and  then  rub  it  well 
with  three  handfuls  of  salt,  and  an .  ounce  of  saltpetre ; 
beat  it  well  with  a  rolling  pin  for  twenty  or  thirty  mi- 
nutes ;  put  it  into  a  pickling  tub ;  strew  over  a  handful 
of  salt;  let  it  be  four  days,  turning  and  rubbing  it  occa- 
sionally ;  put  a  little  more  salt  and  let  it  lie  four  days 
more  ;  after  which,  sew  it  in  a  cbth  and  let  it  hang 
twelve  days  in  smoke  j  grate  and   use   it. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERT.  143 

Obs. — As  meat  will  only  in  the  cold  season  allow  of  its 
being  so  long  in  the  salt^  add^  if  it  is  to  be  afterwards  smoked^ 
half  a  drachm  or  thirty  drops  of  creosote  to  a  wine  glass 
of  brandy,  and  rub  it  over  the  meat ;  this  is  an  excellent 
preservative^  and  if  used  in  curing  pork  for  boilings  gives 
it  all   the   flavour   of  being,  smoked. 

Rub  on  an  ox's  heart  two  ounces  of  common 
DulcA.  salt,  half  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  an  ounce  and 

a  half  of  coarse  brown  sugar,  and  a  little  salt, 
turn  and  rub  it  for  nine  days ;  then  hang  it  in  the  kitchen 
to  dry :  it  will  become  quite  hard.  When  required  for 
use  cut  off  a  piece,  boil,  and  when  cold  grate  it  for  spread- 
ing on  bread  and  butter;  it  may  be  served  with  curled 
butter   over  it. 

Cut  any  pieces   of   tender  lean   beef  into 
ScotcA   Col-  slices;   brown   some    butter   and   flour   in    a 

lops,  saucepan  :   put   in   the   beef  M'ith  some   salt, 

pepper,  and  a  finely  minced  onion ;  (half 
a  minced  apple,  or  some  green  papaw  is  an  improvement); 
add  a  little  hot  water;  cover  the  pan  closely  and  stew 
till  tender. 

Cut  a  piece  of  beef  into  small  bits ;  sea- 
Goibils,  son   them     with    pepper,     salt,   grated    lemon 

peel,  and  nutmeg,  some  parsley  and  shallot 
finely  chopped;  fry  them  brown  in  butter,  and  stew  them 
till  tender  in  a  rich  brown  gravy,  adding  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  vinegar  and  one  of  port  wine ;  put  thickly  over 
them  grated  bread  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
little   butter,   and   brown   them  with   a   salamander. 

Cut   off    the  meat    with     a  little   of   the 

To    dress    tie     fat   into  strips    three   inches    long,   and   half 

inside  of  a     an   inch    thick ;    season     with     pepper     and 

cold  sirloin,    salt,    and   dredge   them  with  flour,    and  fry 

them   brown  in  butter;    then     simmer    them 


Digitized  by 


Google 


144  INDIAN    DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

in  a  rich  brown  gravy ;  add  mushroom  catsup^  onion,  and 
shallot  vinegar,  a  table-spoonful  of  each  ;  garnish  with  fri- 
ed parsley. 

Cut  the  steaks  very  tliin ;   cover    them  with 
Olives.  farce,     which    may    be    seasoned     high    with 

mushrooms;  roll  up  tight  and  tie  them  firm, 
fry  quick  in  beef  dripping,  and  stew  them  in  stock,  and 
add  ketchup,  butter,  and  flour,  or  dip  them  in  egg  and 
crumbs;  fry  and  serve  on  an   oyster   ragout. 

Take  beef,   chop   and  mince   it   very   small. 

Mince   Collqps    to  which    add  some    salt,    and  .  pepper ;    put 

of  Beef.  some  ghee  into   a  frying-pan,  and  slice  some 

onions   into   it,   and   fry  them  ;  *  add    a  little 

water   to  it,   and   then    put   in   the  minced   meat ;    stew    it 

well,   and  in   a  few   minutes  it  will   be   fit   to  serve  up. 

Mince  fine  two  pounds  of  beef,  and  a 
£ee/  Sausages,     pound   of  suet,     or     what    is    called    hogs' 

leaf  from  the  belly  of  a  pig  ;  season  high 
with  pounded  black  pepper,  salt,  allspice,  and  winter  sa- 
vory; mix,  and  fill  the  small  intestines  that  have  been 
well  scoured  and  cleaned  ;  tie  them  in  lengths,  and  hang 
them   in  the  smoke  for  use. 

Scald  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  oys- 
Beef  and  Oys-  ters  in  their  own  liquor ;  take  them  out, 
ter  Sausages,  and  chop  them  finely ;  to  every  pound  of 
beef  add  half  a  pound  of  suet,  with  an 
ounce  of  crumb,  and  an  egg,  a  little  garlic,  sweet  herbs, 
spices  and  salt ;  fill  them  in  three  inches  length,  or  pack 
closely  into  a  jar  ;  when  to  be  used,  roll  it  into  the  form 
of  small  sausages  ;  dip  them  into  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten 
up ;  strew  grated  crumbs  of  bread  over  them,  or  dust  with 
flour,  and  fry  them  in  ghee  or  fresh  dripping ;  serve  them 
upon   fried   bread,  hot. 

Obs. — Mushroom  may  be  used  instead  of  oysters  or  cray 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  145 

fish,  and  if  made  only  as  required,  will  be  better  suited  to 
this  dimate. 

First  wash  them  well  and  boil  in  plenty  of 

Cow  heels,  or     hot  water  till  the  hoofs  come    oS,   and  the 

Ox'feet,  to     hair  can  be  peeled  oflf  and    scraped  clean ; 

dreee.  wash  them  well    again  in  fresh   water,  and 

boil  till  all  the  bones  separate  easily. 

To   pot  them,  cut  them  into  small  pieces ; 
Cow   heeU,  add  a  little  of  the  liquor ;  heat  it,  and  season 

potted.  with  some  salt,   pepper,  and  vinegar ;   put  it 

in  a  mould,  and  when  it  becomes  cold  turn 
it  out.  This  is  eaten  with  vinegar  and  mustard  ;  they  may 
be  served  without  being  cut  small,  either  hot  or  cold ;  if  hot, 
serve  with  thick  parsley  and  butter. 

Cut  them  into  small  bits ;  dip  them  into  the 
Another.  yolk  of  an   egg  beaten  up,  and  rub  them  in 

bread  crumbs  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
minced  parsley  ;  fry  them  in  ghee  or  butter;  cut  into  thin 
slices  a  good  dish  of  onions ;  fry  them  in  ghee  and  serve  them 
hot,   with  the  fried  heels   laid   upon  them. 

Ohs. — The   liquor   may   be  mfade    into  jelly  or  soup,   or 
used   to  enrich  sauces   or    gravies. 

Clean,  prepare  the  cheek  and  put  it  into  luke- 
Ox  cheeky         warm  water ;  let  it  lie  three  or  four  hours ;  then 
etewed.  put  it  into  cold  water,  and  let  it  soak  for  twelve 

more ;  wipe  it  clean ;  put  it  into  a  stewpan  and 
just  cover  it  with  water ;  skim  it  well  when  it  is  coming  to  a 
boil ;  then  put  two  whole  onions,  sticking  two  or  three  cloves 
into  each,  three  turnips  quartered,  a  couple  of  carrots  sliced, 
two  bay  leaves  or  peach,  and  twenty -four  corns  of  allspice, 
a  head  of  celery 'and  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  pepper  and  salt; 
to  these  add  cayenne  and  a  little  garlic  if  approved  of.  Let 
it  stew  gently,  till  perfectly  tender,  about  three  hours  ;  then 
take  out  the  cheek ;  divide  it  into  small  pieces  fit  to  help  at 

T 


Digitized  by 


Google 


146  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

table ;  skim  and/strain  the  gravy ;  melt  an  ounce  and  a  half  of 
batter  in  a  stewpan ;  stir  into  it  as  much  flour  as  it  will  take 
up ;  mix  with  it,  by  degrees,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  the  gravy ; 
add  to  it  a  table-spoonful  of  basil,  tarragon,  or  elder  vinegar, 
or  the  like  quantity  of  mushroom  or  walnut  catsup  or  port 
wine,  and  give  it  a  boil.    Serve  up  in  a  deep,  or  ragout  dish. 

Saw  the  bones  even,  so  that  they  will 
Marrow  banes,  stand  steady ;  put  a  piece  of  paste  over  the 
ends ;  set  them  upright  in  a  saucepan,  and  boil 
till  they  are  done  enough.  A  beef  marrow  bone  will  require 
from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours.  Serve  fresh  toasted 
bread  with  them. 

Brown   sugar  and  common  salt  of  each  two 

Fiekling  9alU    pounds,  saltpetre   eight  oonces,    renders  meat 

salted  with  it  very  finely    flavoured  and  red. 

Boil     together    for     twenty     minutes    two 

Fickle  for         gallons  of  water^    three    pounds  of  bay    salt. 

Beefy  Ham     two  pounds  of  common    salt,  two  pounds  of 

or  Tongue,     coarse    sugar,    two  ounces  of   saltpetre,    and 

two  of  black    pepper    bruised    and  tied,  in 

a  fold  of  muslin ;  clear  off  the  scum  thoroughly  as  it  rises ; 

pour  the  pickle  into  a  tub  or  a  deep  earthen  pan,  and  when  it 

is  quite  cold,  lay  in  the  meat,  of  which  every  part  must  be 

perfectly   covered  with  it. 

A  good  brine  is  made  of  bay  salt  and 
Do.  in  hrine.  water  thoroaghly  saturated,  so  that  none  of 
the  salt  remains  undissolved;  into  this  brine 
the  substance  to  be  preserved  is  plunged  and  kept  covered 
with  it.  In  this  vegetables,  French  beans,  artichokes, 
olives,  may   be  preserved. 

''  Meat  preserved  with  Carson's  salting  ma- 

SaUinff.  chine  will  keep  in  proportion  to  the   strength 

of  the    brine  with    which  it  is  impregnated. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  147 

If  it  be  required  to  keep  for  a  months  use  the  receipt 
marked  No.  I ;  if  two  months.  No.  2  ;  if  beyond  that  time^ 
No.  3.  Meat  pickled  with  No.  1,  will  preserve  the  character 
of  fresh  meat,  and  No.  i,  corned  meat ;  so  that  by  this  instru- 
ment and  process,  persons  on  a  voyage  may  have  provision 
nearly  fresh  for  a  great  length  of  time,  as  by  forcing  a  little 
salt  and  water  (for  example)  to  the  bone,  particularly  where 
there  is  a  joint,  and  around  the  pope's-eye  in  a  leg  of  mutton, 
the  other  parts  will  remain  sweet  without  salt  for  many  weeks, 
if  hung  in  an  airy  place/^ 


.  'i 


(For  making  pickle  or  brine.J 

No.    1. 

Take  of  common  salt,   -       -       -        -       -    5  lbs. 

Molasses, 4  do. 

Water, 1  gaUon. 

Mix  the  whole  together,  and  allow  it  to  stand  quiet  for  half 
an  hour  (or  longer) ;  then  pour  or  strain  off  the  clear  liquid, 
taking  care  that  no  particle  of  salt  or  other  substance  pass 
into  the  machine  ;  this  is  very  important,  as  such  particles  may 
stop  the  hole  in  the  nipple  ;  but  should  a  particle  of  salt  or  fat 
get  into  it,  if  the  nipple  be  placed  in  hot  water,  the  salt  will 
be  dissolved  and  the  fat  can  be  blown  out. 

No.    2. 

Take  of  common  salt,     -       -        -       -  -  6  Bis. 

Saltpetre, i  do. 

Molasses, •  4  do. 

Water, 1  gallon. 

Dissolve  as  above,  using  the  clear  liquor  for  the  machine ; 
the  salt  not  dissolved,  to  be  poured  or  rubbed  on  the  surface 
of  the  meat. 

No.   3. 
Take  of  common  salt,        -       -       -       -  7  fis. 
Sironff  Brine.    Nitre  or  saltpetre,  -       -       -       -        -       f  do. 

Water,      -       - 1  gallon. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


148  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

Dissolve,  and  use  as  No.  2,  covering  the  meat  witb  salt, 
or  place  it  in  strong  brine    after   using  the  machine. 

No.  4. 

Take  of  common  salt,        -       -       •  7  lbs. 

Sweet  pickle  Saltpetre,     -        -        -        -        -       -  i  do. 

for  Tongue  Coarse  sngar, i  do. 

and  Hams,  Water, 1  gallon. 

To  be  used  the  same  as  No.  2.  If  the  ham,  tongue,  bacon, 
&c.,  is  to  be  cured,  smoked,  it  is  only  necessary  to  add  to  each 
quart  of  the  above  pickle  a  table-spoonful  or  more  of  Hackin's 
essence  of  smoke. 

Obs, — Essence  of  smoke  is  nothing  more  than  a  little  ere* 
osote  dissolved  in  spirits. 

The  flesh  of  the  bull  and  cow  calf  of  this  coun- 
Veal,  to  try  is  pretty  mach  the  same,  though  the  latter  is 
choose.  preferred  for  the  udder.  Choose  the  meat  of 
which  the  kidney  is  well  covered  with  white  thick 
fat,  the  other  parts  should  be  dry  and  white  ;  if  clammy  or 
spotted  the  meat  is  stale  and  bad.  If  veal  is  in  danger  of  not 
keeping,  wash  it  thoroughly  and  boil  the  joint  ten  minutes, 
putting  it  into  the  pot  when  the  water  is  boiling  hot ;  then 
wipe  it  dry  and  put  it  into  a  cool  place. 

Take  out  the  bone  and  fill  the  space  with 

VUkt  roasted.      stuffing  or  force  meat ;  put   some  also  under 

the  flap  ;   serve  it  up  with  good  melted  batter, 

and  slices  of  lime  over  it.     It  requires  particular  care  to  roast 

it  a  nice  brown. 

This  is  considered  the  best  part   of  the  veal ; 

The  loin.  the  clump  end   must  be  stufled  like  the  fillet, 

and  a  toast  may  be  put  under  the  kidney ;  the 

fat  being  as  delicate  as  marrow.     Serve  with  melted  butter, 

the  same  as  a  fillet. 

Shoulder  of         Stuff  as  for  fillet  with  force-meat  and  serve 
veal.  as  the  same. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKEBT.  149 

Prepare  and  roast  tlie  loin^  pat  two  ladle- 
Loin  qf veal        fals   of  -white  sauce  i)ito  a  stewpan  with  a 
ausppetits         quart    of     boiled    peas     (pre^riouslj    dressed 
jwis.  with  a  sprig  of  mint)^   a  little  salt,  a  tea- 

spoonful  of  sugar,  let  it  boil  up»  then  add 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter^  with  a  little  arrowroot^  shake 
the  whole  over  the  fire,  pour  it  out  into  a  dish^  and 
place  the  loin  in  the   centre,    serve  quite  hot. 

Obs. — ^The  peas  may  be  dressed  in  a  thrown  sauce,  with 
a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  served  with  a  roast  loin  or 
breast  of  veal. 

Tie  knuckle        Is  generaUy  boiled  plain,   and  sent  up  witli 
of  veal       parsley  and  butter. 

Having  your    veal  nicely    roasted,   place 
Loin  of  veal         a    border  of  mashed    potatoes    round    the 
alaPvrSede    dish,  take    some    sticks  of  celery    cleaned, 
Celeri.  cut  off  the   tops  and   make  a  purde.     Stew 

the  bottoms  in  some  consomm^  with  a 
little  sugar  until  tender,  place  them  upright  in  the  bor- 
der of  potatoes  with  the. veal  in  the  centre,  and  pour  the 
pur^e  of  celery  round,  serve  quite  hot;  the  pur^e  should 
be  of  the   consistence  of  good  cream. 

Neeh  May  be  made  into  pie  or  broth. 

Veal  of  every  part  is  to  be  made  firm   by 
To  blanch      means    of    boiling    hot     water :    also    lay    the 
veal  or       flesh    of    any    kind   of    fowl     required    to  .  be 
fowl.  rendered    firm,   in    hot    water,    allowing  it  to 

remain  undisturbed  at  a  short  distance  from 
the  fire,  plunging  it  afterwards  into  cold  water*  Especi- 
ally veal  intended  for  cooking,  or  previously  cut  up  into 
proper  pieces  for  a  fricassee,  is  to  be  kept  for  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour  in  boiling  water  at  a  distance  from  the 
fire,  and  then  removed  and  washed  in  cold  water.  A  leg 
or  breast  of  veal  must  be  set  on  the  fire  with  cold  water 


Digitized  by 


Google 


150  INDIAN    BOMESTIC    ECONOMY 

to  draw  it  a  little :  it  must  not  however  boil,  as  that  ex* 
tracts  much  of  its  goodness.  Bemove  it  from  the  fire; 
cover  it  over,  and  let  it  stand  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  after 
which  it  will  be  found'  to  have  become  perfectly  drawn 
and  whitened.  Take  it  out;  lay  it  in  cold  water;  wash 
it  and  dry  it   with  a  clean  cloth. 

Cut  it  in  two   and  take  out    the  brains; 
Calf  9  Aeadf  to     wash  the   head   well  in   several  waters,   and 
boU^  soak   it  in   warm    water   for    ten   minutes 

before  dressing ;  then  put  the  head  into  a 
saucepan  with  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  when  it  begins 
to  boil,  carefully  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises.  It  must 
be  stewed  very  gently  till  it  is  tender,  and  serve  with 
fine  parsley  and  butter:  the  brains  and  tongue  in  a  se- 
parate dish,  the  brains  made  into  a  sauce  with  chopped 
sage,   cream,   &c. 

Obs, — ^When  cold,  it  is  very  tasteless,  but  serves  to  make 
an  excellent  hash ;  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled  may 
be  converted  into  soup. 

Take  any  of  the  head  and  tongue  that 
Dressed  Calfs  remains,  and  cut  into  squares  or  slices ; 
headha9hed%  sprinkle  over  it  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and 
nutmeg,  and  dredge  or  powder  it  with  a 
little  fine  flour  or  arrowroot.  If  any  soup  of  the  previ- 
ous day  remains,  make  it  up  to  a  pint  with  good  mut- 
ton broth,  adding  a  glass  of  white  or  red  wine  with  three 
spoonfuls  of  mushroom  catsup;  put  the  meat  into  it  and 
give  it  a  boil  up;  when  it  is  ready  squeeze  in  the  juice 
of  a  lime. 

Obs. — A  good  cook  will  judge  how  much  flour  or  arrow- 
root  is  necessary  to  thicken  the  quantity  of  gravy  used,  as 
much  must  depend  upon  the  remains  of  the  head,  &c. 

Wash  and  clean  it  well;  parboil  it;   take 

Roast.  out    the  bones,    brains,    and    tongue;    make 

force-meat   sufficient  for  the    head,    and  some 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Al^D     COOKERY.  151 

balls  with  bread  crumbs,  minced  8uet^  parsley,  grated  ham, 
and  a  little  pounded  veal  or  cold  fowl;  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  and  lemon  peel ;  bind  it  with  an 
egg  beaten  up ;  fill  the  head  with  it,  which  must  then  be 
sown  up  or  fastened  with  a  skewer  and  tied.  While  roast- 
ing, baste  it  well  with  butter;  beat  up  the  brains  with  a 
httle  cream,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  some  minced  parsley,  a 
httle  pepper  and  salt ;  blanch  the  tongue,  that  is,  skin  it ; 
cut  it  into  slices  and  fry  it  with  the  brains,  force-meat 
balls,  and  thin  slices  of  bacon  ;  serve  the  head  with  white 
or  brown  thickened  gravy ;  place  the  tongue,  brains,  and 
force-meat  balls  round  it ;  garnish  with  sliced  lemon.  It 
will  take  one  hour  and  a  half  to   roast. 

Clean  and  blanch  a  calf  s  head ;  boil  it  till 
Calf  9  head  the  bones  will  separate  easily ;  then  bone  and 
Bigarree.  press  it  between  two  dishes  to  give  it  an  ob- 
long  shape ;  beat  well  the  yolk  of  four  eggs, 
a  little  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt ;  divide  the  head 
when  cold,  and  brush  it  all  over  with  the  beaten  eggs, 
and  stew  over  it  grated  bread ;  repeat  this  twice ;  with  the 
grated  bread  that  is  put  over  one  half,  a  good  quantity  of 
finely  minced  parsley  should  be  mixed.  Place  the  head  in 
a  dish,  and  bake  it  of  a  nice  brown  color  ;  serve  with  a 
sauce  of  parsley  and  butter,  or  one  of  good  gravy  mixed 
with  the  brains,  which  have  been  previously  boiled  and 
chopped,   season  with   a  little   white  pepper  and  salt. 

Simmer  it  in  sugar  and  water  till  the  bones 
Russian  come  out ;  keep  the  cheeks  whole ;  cut  the  re- 
meihod.  mainder  in  pieces  ;  put  it  all  but  the  cheeks  again 
into  the  stock  ;  stew  it  till  it  becomes  like  a 
jelly,  and  when  there  is  just  time  sufficient  to  stew  some 
raisins,  have  them  ready  cleaned  and  rubbed,  and  put  them 
in  whole  ;  vinegar  and  more  sugar  are  to  be  added  if  neces- 
sary, to  give  it  an  agreeable  taste.  The  tongue  and  brains 
are  served  up  separately,  with  a  little  of  the  gravy  thickened 
and  seasoned  with   port  wine   and  a  little  whole  pepper. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


158  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

Wash  and  clean  half   a  head,   if  large,  or 
Totted  calf* 9      the   whole,'  if  small;  let  it  lie  a  few  houn 
head.  to   soak,    changing    the    water   occasionally ; 

then  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  the  feet,  that 
have  been  well  cleaned,  four  onions  minced,  some  parsley, 
thyme,  salt,  and  cayenne  ;  put  as  much  water  as  will  cover 
it,  and  let  it  stew  gently  for  three  or  four  hours  ;  then  take 
out  the  head  and  feet ;  separate  it  from  the  bones  ;  mince 
and  add  some  more  pounded  black  pepper  and  salt ;  then 
strain  the  liquor  upon  it ;  stew  for  half  an  hour,  and  put 
it  into  moulds. 

Cut  half  a  dozen  slices  off  a  fillet  of  veal. 
Veal  olives.  half  an  inch  thick  and  as  long  and  square  as 
you  can  ;  flatten  them  with  a  chopper,  and  rub 
them  over  with  an  egg,  that  has  been  beaten  ;  cut  some  fat 
bacon  as  thin  as  possible,  the  same  size  as  the  veal ;  lay 
it  on  the  veal,  and  rub  it  with  a  little  of  the  egg ;  make 
a  little  veal  force-meat  and  spread  it  very  thin  over  the 
bacon ;  roll  up  the  olives  very  tight ;  rub  them  with  the 
egg,  and  then  roll  them  in  fine  bread  crumbs  ;  put  them 
on  a  small  skewer  and  roast  them  at  a,  brisk  fire.  They 
will  take  three   quarters   of  an  hour. 

Cut    some    slices    from    the    upper  part  of 
Veal  Collops.     the  leg,  and  then  prepare  some  grated  bread* 

seasoned  with  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt ;  rub 
the  slices  over  with  the  yolk  of  egg,  and  then  dip  them 
in  the  bread  crumbs  ;  fry  them  in  a  stewpan  in  a  small 
quantity  of  butter  until  both  surfaces  are  nicely  browned^ 
then  place  them  on  one   side. 

Prepare  a  gravy  with  a  tea-cupful  of  water,  (consomme 
is  best,}  a  small  piece  of  butter  rubbed  in  flour,  half  a 
dozen  sprigs  of  parsley,  some  sweet  herbs,  two  burnt  onions^ 
three  cloves,  and  a  little  mushroom  catsup  ;  let  these  sim- 
mer on  a  slow  fire  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  occasionally ; 
garnish  with  lemon. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


AND  COOKERY.  16S 

Prepare  the  cutlets,  nicely  flatten,  and 
Fed  CuUets.  dredge  a  little  fine  salt  over ;  dip  them  in 
melted  butter,  and  put  them  upon  a  hot 
gridiron  over* a  very  clear  fire,  but  not  too  hot;  turn  them 
quickly,  to  prevent  the  butter  dropping,  and  to  harden 
them ;  to  preserve  the  juice  let  them  be  well  cooked,  and 
of  a  fine  colour;  dish  them  on  gravy,  and  gamiah  with 
tofts  of  fried  parsley,   or  crumbs. 

Cut  thin ;  beat  them  well ;   lay  them  in   vine- 
Cuileb  garj  mace,  pepper,  and  salt  for  some   hours ;   fry 

fScatci.)    them  slowly  a  light    brown,  and  pour   into  the 
pan  a  little   seasoned   stock,  and  let  them  sim- 
mer,   and   thicken   with  flour   and  butter. 

Mince  it  as  fine  as  possible  (do  not  chop 
Mimeed  veal.  it),  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  few  spoon < 
fuls  of  veal  or  mutton  broth,  a  little  lemon 
peel  minced  fine,  a  spoonful  of  milk  or  cream,  thicken  with 
batter  and  flour,  and  season  it  with  salt,  a  table-spoonful  of 
lemon   pickle*  or  a  little  lemon  juice. 

Cut  the  liver  rather  thin,  but  not  too  thin 
Fried  Liver  so  as  to  harden  in  the  frying ;  chop  a  quan- 
and  Bacon,  tity  of  parsley  ;  season  it  with  pepper  and  lay 
it  thick  upon  the  liver ;  cut  slices  of  bacon 
ind  fry  both  together  ;  add  a  little  lemon  ]  pickle  to  the  gravy 
made  by  pouring  the  fat  out  of  the  pan,  flouring,  and  adding 
boiling   water. 

Cut  three  kidneys  into  thin  slices,  put  a 
Veal  Kidneys,  spoonful  of  ghee  or  butter  into  a  stewpan, 
and  just  as  it  begins  to  get  brown,  throw  in 
ike  kidneys,  stir  them  about,  and  as  soon  as  they  get  brown 
dkake  in  a  dessert  spoonful  of  flour,  stir  it  well  and  add  a 
vine-glaas  of  white  wine,  a  quarter'  of  a  pint  of  broth,  some 
nail  moshrooms,  and  let  all  boil  together  for  five  minutes ; 
with  pepper,  salt,   nutmeg,    and  the  juice  of  a  small 

u 


Digitized  by 


Google 


154  -     INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY      • 

lime ;  if  too  thick  reduce  with  a  little  broth,  serve  plain,  or  as 
for  ris  de  veau  en  caisses,  or  in  a  croustade  of  bread  of  a  light 
brown  colour. 

Pound  in  a  mortar  cold  veal  and  fowl  with 
Croquettes  of  '  a  little  suet,  some  chopped  lemon  peel,  lemon 
veal  or  fowl,  thyme,  chives,  and  parsley;  season  with  nut- 
meg, pepper,  and  salt^  mix  all  well  together; 
add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  well  beaten ;  roll  it  into  balls,  and  dip 
them  into  an  egg  beaten  up ;  then  sift  bread  crumbs  over 
them,  and  fry  in  ghee  or  butter.  * 

Mince  some  cold  sweetbreads  which  have 
Croquettes  of  been  dressed,  and  boil  them  in  a  white  sauce 
sweetbread,  orveloute;  when  quite  cold,  form  thetn  into 
balls,  or  into  rolls  about  two  inches  long; 
fry  and  serve  them  with  fried  parsley  in  the  middle.  Or  make 
the  croquet  meat  into  a  rissole  ;  roll  out  a  piece  of  thin  puff 
paste ;  enclose  the  meat  in  it ;  brush  it  over  with  a  beaten 
egg,  and  strew  over  it  grated  bread ;  fry  it  of  a  light  brown 
colour. 

Prepare  cutlets  of  veal,  fowl,  or  mutton; 
Cutlets  of  nicely    flatten,    and   dredge   a  Kttle  fine  salt 

veal^fowl  or  over ;  dip  them  in  melted  butter  and  put 
mutton,  with  them  upon  a  hot  gridiron  over  a  very  clear 
Love-apjple  fire,  but  not  too  hot ;  turn  them  quickly  to 
sauce.  prevent     the    butter    dropping,    and  harden 

them  to  preserve  the  juice;  then,  cover  them 
with  the  following  sauce  previously  prepared  :  Take  twelve  ripe 
^  tomatas ;  cut  them  into  halves  ;  squeeze  them  just  enough  to 
get  all  the  water  and  seeds  out ;  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with 
a  capsicum  and  two  or  three  table-spoonfuls  of  beef  gravy  ;  set 
them  on  a  slow  fire  till  properly  melted;  then  rub  them 
through  a  tammis  into  a  clean  stewpan  with  a  little  white 
pepper  and  salt,  and  let  them  simmer  together  a  few  minutes ; 
thicken,  if  requisite,  with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  arrowroot 
or   flour. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  lo5 

Oh. — ^An  onion^  with  a  clove  or  two,  or  a  little  Tarragon 
vinegar^   is   sometimes  added. 

Prepare  and  shape  your  cutlets  nicely, 
Coteleties  de  veau  cut  off  the  skin  or  any  unnecessary  part, 
a  la  Sana/agon,  dip  them  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  a  dish 
of  bread  crumbs,  finely  chopped  parsley 
and  eschalots  ;  flatten  with  your  knife  ;  then  dip  them  into 
boiling  ghee,  and  then  again  into  the  bread  crumbs,  flatten 
again  with  your  knife  and  boil  them  over  a  clear  fire  ;  dress 
them  in  a  tasteful  manner,  or   with  nicely  mashed  potatoes. 

Blanch  some  sweetbreads,  cut  them  in 
Escalopes  de  Bis  de  slices  a  little  thinner  than  the  fourth  of  an 
veau  en  caisses.  inch,  place  some  ghee  in  a  saucepan  with 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  finely  chbpped 
young  onions,  lay  the  sweetbreads  over,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  place  them  over  a  slow  fire  ;  when  done  add  a  ta- 
ble-spoonful  of  chopped  mushrooms,  the  same  of  parsley,  half  a 
pint  of  brown  sauce,  a  little  glaze,  half  a  pint  of  clear  broth, 
some  grated  nutmeg  and  sugar,  simmer,  and  keep  shaking  the 
whole  well  together  for  ten  minutes;  have  ready  some  small 
paper  cases,  fill  each  three  parts  full,  egg  the  top,  sprinkle 
some  bread  crumbs  over  and  place  them  in  an  oven  for  twen- 
ty minutes,  pass  a  salamander  over,  and  dress  them  taste* 
fully  in  a  dish. 

MUTTON. 

The  selection  will,  of  course,  depend  upon  its  appearance ; 
a  fine  grain,  with  firm  white  looking  fat,  and  a  plumpness 
in  the  meat,  not  yielding  to  the  finger  like  dough  when 
pressed,  is  to  be  chosen.  Butchers  are  constantly  in  the 
habit  of  blowing  their  meat  to  give  it  a  fulness;  such 
should  always  be  rejected.  It  is  not  only  a  very  dirty  cus- 
tom, but  the  meat  will  never  keep  so  long  as  it  otherwise 
would,  if  dressed  without  this  practice,  and  which  a  butch- 
er, unless  particularly  cautioned,  is  sure  to  do.  The  finest 
mutton  is  wedder  of   from  five  to  six  years  old  that  ha» 


Digitized  by 


Google 


156  INDIAN    DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

been  fed  on  grain^  and  is  generally  priced  at  more  than 
treble  the  common  country  meat.  The  flesh  of  ewe  mut- 
ton is  paler,  and  not  of  so  high  a  flavour  ;  ram  and  goat 
mutton  is  larger,  the  flesh  a  deeper  red  and  strong  tasted. 
The  joints  principally  brought  to  table  in  this*  country 
are  the  saddle,  hind,  and  fore-quarter,  leg  and  loin.  The 
saddle  at  large  parties  is  sometimes  cut  with  a  portion  of 
the  hind  legs  attached,  which,  when  dressed,  though  it  may 
give  it  the  appearance  of  being  large  and  finer,  is  any  thing 
but  recommendable,  from  its  unsightliness,  as  well  as 
being  very   uneconomical. 

This  joint  should  be  hung  as  long  as  possible, 
Saddle  of  the  kidneys  being  removed  ;  a  few  cloves  of  gar- 
Mutton.  lie,  stuck  under  the  fat,  improve  its  flavour. 
When  to  be  dressed,  divide  the  tail  and  skewer 
the  pieces  back  in  a  ring  on  each  side  ;  let  the  flaps  also  be 
turned  under,  and  the  joint  carefully  put  on  the  spit  ;  be- 
fore it  is  dished,  sprinkle  it  with  salt,  dredge  it  with  flour, 
and  froth  it  nicely. 

This  joint  is  prepared  and  dressed  the  same 
Maunch  of        as  the   saddle ;   a  couple  or  more  cloves  of  gar- 
mutton.        lie  may  be  stuck  in  the  knuckle,  and  if  neces- 
sary, a  little   pounded  ginger  and  i)lack  pepper 
rubbed    over  it. 

Obs* — ^To  dress  it  like  venison — after  it  has  hung  a  sufficient 
time,  lay  it  in  a  dish  and  soak  it  in  port  wine,  turning  it  fre- 
quently; then  paper  up  the  fat  and  roast  it,  basting  it  with 
butter  and  the  wine  mixed  together;  serve  with  gravy  and 
currant  jelly  sauce. 

Either  of  these  joints  may  be  roasted  and 
Fore-quarter      dressed  in  the   usual  manner,   or  if  salted  for 
or  shoulder,    a  day  or  two  and  boiled,  should  be  smother- 
ed   with    onion    sauce ;    this    sauce    is  also 
sent  to   table   sometimes  with   the  roast  shoulder.    It  is  an 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  157 

economical  plan  to    salt  the   shoulder  for  boilings  and   dress 
the  remainder  either  as  a  braise,  chops,  harricot,  cutlets,  &c. 

Maj    either  be  roasted,    boiled,   stewed,  cat 
Leg  of  Mut'    into  steaks,  &c.     If  roasted,  it  is  dressed  as  the 
ton,  haunch  or  shoulders ;  beet  root  is  a  proper  ac- 

companiment. When  to  be  boiled  it  should  be 
put  in  a  paste  or  cloth  to  keep  it  clean;  serve  with  caper 
sauce,  mashed  turnips,  or  other   vegetables. 

06s. — It  is  unnecessary  for  the  purpose  of  this  work  to  en- 
ter into  the  detaiLs  of  roasting  and  boiling  the  different  joints, 
minutely.  I  consider  it  sufficient  to  mention  the  way  in 
which  they  should  be  served  and  sent  to  table. 

Take  a  tender  neck  or  loin  of  mutton  ;.  cut 
Harricot  of  into  chops  of  equal  thickness ;  flour  and  fry 
mutton,  them  brown  in  a  little  butter,  and  drain  them 
on  a  cloth ;  spread  over  a  dish  or  sieve ;  then 
put  them  into  a  stewpan,  and  cover  with  gravy,  which 
may  be  made  in  the  fryingpan  by  the  addition  of  a  little 
boiling  water ;  add  one  large  or  a  dozen  small  button  onions, 
a  couple  of  turnips  cut  into  slices,  and  stew  gently  until  the 
meat  is  tender ;  then  take  out  the  chops  and  vegetables ;  strain 
the  gravy,  removing  all  '  the  fat ;  put  some  butter  into  the 
stewpan  with  a  little  flour,  and  stir  it  until  melted  and 
smooth ;  add  the  gravy  to  this  by  degrees,  and  stir  together 
until  it  boils.  Have  ready  some  carrots  and  turnips  cut 
into  slices,  with  a  few  small  onions  parboiled ;  add  these  to 
the  meat ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  simmer  gently 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  ;  then  take  out  the  chops  -,  lay  them 
in  a  dish,  and  cover  with  the  sauce  and  vegetables. 

Oba* — Beef  steaks  and  veal  cutlets  may  be  dressed  in  the 
same  way. 

Cut   some   young    turnips  into  small    sized 

White  Sauce    balls  or   any  other    shape ;    blanch    them  in 

/of^rrtco/. boiling  water;    drain   and  stew   them  with  a 

little    sugar    and    a    few    table-spoonfuls    of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


158  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

clear  broth  over  a  quick  fire;  reduce  them  to  a  glaze, 
and  then  take  them  off;  pour  in  four  or  five  spoonfuls 
of  broth  or  Bechamel ;  season  with  salt,  and^  if  too  thick, 
add   a  little  cream,  and  cover  the  chops  with  the  sauce. 

Shred     as     mlich    garlic     as     you    please; 
Giffot  a  rail,     put   it    into   five   different    waters   with   a  lit- 
If^ff  of  Mut'    tie   salt ;    boil   it   five   minutes  in  each ;   drain 
ton  with  gar-  and    place    in    the   dripping  pan     under   the 
lie,  mutton     whilst     roasting;    or    else     put    the 

garlic  with  some  of  Ihe  gravy  into  a  stew- 
ing pan,   and   give    it  a   gentle   browning. 

Trim     off  all     sinews,     skin,   and     gristle; 
Hashed  Mut-    cut  the  meat  into   neat   slices,   and    lay  it  on 
ton.  a  plate   on  one  side;   take   the    remainder   of 

the  joint  bones,  &c.,  and  cover  them  with 
boiling  water;  add  some  pepper-corns,  the  same  of  all- 
spice, a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  half  a  head  of  celery  cut 
into  slices,  with  some  lemon  thyme ;  let  this  simmer  gent- 
ly for  half  an  hour;  slice  a  little  onion;  put  it  into  a 
stewpan  with  a  table-spoonful  of  butter,  and  fry  it  over 
a  quick  fire  until  a  light  brown;  then  stir  in  as  much 
flour  or  arrowroot  jis  will  make  a  thick  paste,  by  degrees ; 
add  the  gravy  you  have  made,  and  let  it  bo  Q  very  gent- 
ly until  it  is  of  the  thickness  of  cream;  then  strain  it 
into  a  basin,  and  put  it  back  into  the  stewpan ;  season 
it  with  a  spoonful  of  walnut  or  mushroom  catsup,  or 
pickled  onions,  girkins,  capers,  &c. ;  (cover  the  bottom  of 
a  dish  with  sippets  of  bread) ;  put  in  the  meat,  and  let 
it  simmer  gently,  but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  place  it  in  the 
dish  with  the  gravy  over  the  sippets  plain  or  fried,  and 
serve. 

Cut  the   meat  as   directed  in   the   last  re- 
A plainer         ceipt;     sprinkle  it  with    flour  or     arrowroot; 
make   a  gravy  with   the  remainder,  to  which 
add  a  few  slices   of  onions;  when  sufficient-> 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   GOOKEEY.  159 

ly  done,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  any  pickle  li- 
quor ;  add  the  meat,  and  let  it  warm  up,  but  not  boil ; 
garnish   with  fried   sippets   cut   into  the   shape    of  dice. 

Cut  your  mutton    into    chops ;   beat    them 
Maintenon        flat  with   a  rolling  pin  ;   mash   the  yolk  of  a 
CuUeU.  hard   boiled    egg,  and  mix   with    it   chopped 

sweet  herbs,  grated  bre^d,  nutmeg,  salt,  and 
pepper ;  cover  the  chops  with  it,  and  put  e^ich  into  a 
piece  of  clean,  well  buttered  paper ;  broil  them  oyer  a 
clear  fire,  turning  them  often  ;  serve  in  the  paper  or  with 
brown   gravy. 

Chopa  to  Trim  your  chops   nicely  ;   sprinkle    a  little  pep- 

broil,         per  and  salt  over  them,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire. 

Dress    your  chops  ik  la  maintenon ;    remove 
Fried  in  Po-  the    papers  ;   then   cover    with   mashed   boiled 
tatoe  bat-        potatoes,     bound   together    with  the    yolk    of 
ier.  eggs  ;  fry  them  in   hot  ghee  to   a  nice  deli- 

cate  brown. 

Cut  your  chops  and  trim  them ;  dip  them 
Mutton  into  hot  melted  butter  or  warm  ghee  ;  cover 
chops.  with  grated  bread  mixed  with  chopped  parsley 
a  little  sweet  marjoram,  salt  and  pepper ! 
then  dip  the  chops  into  the  yolk  of  eggs  beaten  up,  and 
sprinkle  them  with  crumbs  of  bread  ;  fry  them  in  butter, 
and  serve  with  a  thickened    gravy. 

Cut  the  chops  off  a  loin  of  mutton  ;  pare 
Another  way.  off  the  fat ;  dip  them  into  a  beaten  egg,  and 
strew  over  them  grated  bread  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  some  finely  minced  parsley ;  fry  them  in 
a  little  butter,  and  lay  them  upon  a  sieve  to  drain  near  the 
fire  :  thicken  about  half  a  pint  of  gravy ;  add  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  mushroom  catsup,  and  one  of  port  wine  ;  put  the  chops 
into  a  dish  with  the  gravy,  and  garnish  with  fried  parsley  or 
sliced  lime,   or  as   cotelettcs   dc  vcau. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


160  INDIAN     DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 

Take  six  or  twelve  kidneys  according  to 
Kidneys  mth  the  quantity  that  yoa  wish  to  dress ;  remoye 
Champagne.  the  skins  ;  cut  and  mince  them  into  small 
slices  ;  have  a  little  bit  of  lean  bacon  cut 
into  squares  ;  fry  them  with  a  very  little  bit  of  butter  ; 
when  the  bacon  is  of  a  good  colour,  put  in  the  kidneys,  taking 
care  to  shake  the  pan  frequently  so  as  to  fry  them  equally. 
When  they  are  done,  strew  over  them  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
some  parsley  chopped  very  fine,  and  a  very  small  bit  of  shal- 
lot well  chopped,  also  throw  in  a  little  flour  ;  stir  up  all  with 
a  spoon  ;  then  moisten  with  a  glass  of  white  champagne,  but 
do  not  let  it  boil,  otherwise  the  kidneys  will  be  hard  and  un- 
eatable ]— add  a  little  lime  and  a  little  cayenne,  and  observe 
that  this  dish  should  be  well  seasoned.  Put  the  kidneys  first 
in  the  dish,  and  let  the  sauce  have  one  boil  to  do  the 
flour ;— miud  that  the  sauce  be  properly  thick  to  add  to 
the   meat,  but  not  too  much   so* 

Cut  the  kidneys  open  in  the  centre,  and 
Broiled  Bd-        remove  the  skin  that  covers  them  ;  then  keep 
neya.  the  two  sides  open  with  a  small  skewer  of 

wood  ;  dust  them  well  with  pepper  and  a 
little  salt ;  dip  them  into  melted  butter ;  broil  the  side  that 
is  cut  open  first ;  then  turn  them  that  they  may  retain  their 
gravy.  Have  ready  some  chopped  parsley  mixed  with  fresh 
butter,  lemon  juice,  pepper,  and  salt ;  put  a  little  over  each 
kidney,   and   serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Cut  the  kidneys  into  very  thin  slices ;  flour 
French  ioay.    and  fry   quickly  until  they    are    quite  crisp  ; 
while  frying,  add  pepper  and  salt ;  serve  in  a 
good  brown  gravy  slightly  flavoured  with  garlic. 

Cut  apples  or  white  pumpkin  as   for  other 

SgiMl  pie.        pies,  and  lay  them  in  rows  with  slices  or  pieces 

of  mutton,  pork  or  bacon  ;  shred  two  or  three 

middling  sized  onions^   and  sprinkle  amongst  them,  adding 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  .COOKERY.  161 

salt,  pepper  and  sugar,  with  a  sofBciency  of  clear  gravy  or 
water;  cover  with  a  paste   as  usual. 

Take    the  skin  from  the  brains  without 
Sheeps^  brains,       breaking  them,  and  let  them  soak  for  two 
Jried.  hours  in  lukewarm  water;  when  they  are 

quite  white,  put  them  into  a  stewpan  half 
full  of  boiling  water  with  half  a  pint  of  vinegar  and  some  salt ; 
let  them  boU  until  they  are  firm,  which  they  will  soon  be ; 
then  put  them  to  drain ;  make  a  very  light  batter :  cut  and 
dip  them  into  it»  fry  of  a  nice  brown  over  a  quick  fire.  They 
require  a  good  deal  of  frying.  Garnish  them  with  fried 
parsley. 

Stew    them  gently  until  the  bones  come 
SA^ep/  Trot-       out ;   save    the  liquor  they  are  boiled  in  for 
ters.  stock;  take    out    this  bones,   and     stilff  the 

skin  with  forcemeat;  stew  them  m  some  of 
the  stock  for  half  an  hour,  which  must  be  flavoured  with 
onions,  chopped  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  mushroom 
ketchup  or  Harvey  sauce. 

Wash  and  clean  the  hearts  and  lights,  or  the 
Haggis.  pluck;  cleanse  and   parboil  them;  then  mince 

very  small;  add  one  pound  of  chopped  suet, 
with  two  or  three  large  onions  minced,  and  four  table-spoon- 
fuls of  flour  or  oatmeal ;  season  highly  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  mix  all  well  together;  the  bi^  or  stomach  being  very 
clean  (which  it  can  only  be  made  by  continual  fresh  washings 
and  soakings),  put  in  the  above  ingredients,  and  press  out  all 
the  air ;  sew  it  up,  and  boil  for  two  or  three  hours.  A  cloth 
that  has  been  wetted  and  sprinkled  with  flour,  may  be  used, 
or  it  may  be  boiled  in  a  jar  tied  over. 

Take  a   large  fat  leg  of  mutton  (lean  meat 
MuUan  ham.    will    not  answer),  two   ounces    of  raw  sugar, 
four  ounces  of  common  salt,  and  half  a  spoon- 
ful of  saltpetre ;  the  meat  is  to    be  well  rubbed  with  this, 

w 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1C2  INDIAN  DOHESTIC  ECONOMY 

and  then  placed  in  a  deep  dish ;  it  must  be  beaten  and  turn- 
ed twice  a  day  for  three  days;  the  scum  which  comes  from 
the  meat  having  been  taken  off,  it  is  to  be  wiped  and  again 
rubbed  with  the  mixture  and  the  meat  well  rolled;  this 
should  be  done  for  eight  or  ten  days,  and  the  meat  should 
be  regularly  turned ;  ftfter  which  it  is  to  be  exposed  to  smoke 
for  ten  or  tWelve  days,  or  dipped  in  pyroligneous  acid. 

Obs. — Green  mango  wood  is  the  best  for  smoking  meat 
with. 

LAMB. 

When  carefully  fattened,  this  is  light  and  suitable  for 
delicate  stomachs;  the  generality  brought  to  market  and 
offered  for  sale  is  far  inferior  to  the  mutton,  and  very  sel- 
dom fit  to  be  put  on  the  table ;  indeed,  few  Indian  legs  of 
mutton   exceed  in   weight  the  leg  of  lamb  at  home. 

Roast  a  saddle   of  lapib  or  of  small  mutton 
Saddle  of        in  the  same  manner  with   vegetables  as  direct- 
Lamb  auz    ed  for   a    fillet  of  beef^  and   brown  it  with  a 
petUipois.    salamander.    Put  a  quart  of  boiled  green  peas 
into   a  stewpan  with  two  ounces  of  butter,   a 
tea-spoonful    of   sugar,   a  little    arrowroot    and    six    table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream,    shake  them  round  well    over  the  fire, 
pour  them  in   the   dish,  and  dress   the  saddle  over   them. 

Place  it  in   cold    water  and    simmer  gent- 
To  boil  a  leg.    ly,  allowing  a    quarter   of  an    hour  or   little 
more  to  each  pound ;   the  loin  cut  into  chops, 
and  dressed  may  be  put  round  it. 

It  may  be  pre^^ared  in  different  ways  for 
To  roast  a  leg.  roasting ;  such  as  larding  with  ham  or  bacon, 
or  forced  with  oysters  or  mushrooms;  bnt 
it  is  most  usual  here  to  dress  the  loin  and  leg  together, 
and  send  to  table  with  plain  clear  gravy  and  potatoes 
browned  round  it;  mint  sauce  is  generally  served  with  roast 
or  boiled  lamb. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY,  163 

When  roasted  whole,   either  at  or  before 

Forequarter*         sending  to  table^  the  shonlder  may  be  raised 

and   a  pat  of  butter  laid  between  the  meat 

with    cayenne    pepper^    lime  juice  and    a  table-spoonful  of 

mushroom  catsup. 

Q5^.^-A  forequarter  of  kid  is  to  be  dressed  in  the  same 
way ;  both  should  be  served  quite  hot,  with  mint  sauce 
in   a  butter-boat. 

Half-roast  it  either  in   the  regular  man- 

SUwed  brecat     ner  or  in  a    stewpan,   and  give  it  a   nice 

wUk  cucum*      brown    appearance ;   then   add    a     sufficient 

hers.  quantity    of    stock    with  sliced   cucumbers^ 

sweet  herbs^  pepper^  and  salt ;  stew  it  gent- 

ly  without  boilings  and  thicken  the     sauce    before  servings 

with   flour  or   arrowroot. 

Obs. — ^The  breast  may  be  boiled  plain,  and  served  with 
mashed  turnips  or  white   beet-root. 

Cut    the  meat  from  the    top  and  a  little 
Shoulder  of     from  the   bottom   (of  a  cold    roast  shoulder) 
muUon  or      so  as  to  preserve  the   shape ;  lay  the  shoulder 
Lamb  a  &>    -  in  a  baking  dish  and  surround  the  joint  with 
polonaise.      mashed  potatoes  ;  mince  the  meat  cut  off  very 
fine,   chop  up  an  onion,  put  it  into  a  stewpan 
with  a   little  butter,  and  fry   a  light  brown^    add   a  table- 
spoonful  of  arrowroot,  a  pint  of  brown   sauce  with  half  the 
quantity  of  stock,    boil  for  a  few  minutes,  add   the  minced 
meat,    season  with  salt    and   some  mushroom    catsup,   then 
add  the  beaten  yolks  of  a  couple  of  eggs,  stir  the  whole  well ; 
when  the  eggs  have  set   put   it  over  the  shoulder,  and  egg' 
it  well,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and   bake  it  in    a  mo- 
derate oven.    Salamander  a    light    brown,  and  serve  with, 
a  little   seasoned  gravy  round  it. 

Ofo.— A  cold  saddle  may  be  dressed  in  the  same  way 
only  when  cutting  off  the  meat,  leave  the  flaps  entire 
to  preserve  the   shape. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


164 


INDIAN    DOMBSTIC    ECONOMY 


Breast  with 
green  peas 
and  brown 
sauce. 


Braize  the  whole  breast ;  when  it  is 
done  take  out  the  small  bones^  flatten  it 
between  two  dishes,  and  let  it  cool ;  next 
cut  it  into  the  size  of  small  chops,  and 
Warm  it  in  some  of  the  liquor  in  which 
the  breast  has  been  braized  ;  lastly  drain 
and  glaze  and  cover  it  with  the  peas  in  the  following 
manner :  Take  some  very  fine  peas,  which  prepare  (see 
French  fashion)  with  a  little  fresh  butter ;  drain  them  ; 
then  simmer  them  over  a  very  slow  fire  with  a  small 
slice  of  ham,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  green  onions  ; 
when  they  are  nearly  done,  take  out  the  ham,  parsley^ 
and  onions ;  finish  dressing  them  with  two  spoonfuls  of 
espagnole  and  a  little  sugar ;  cover  the  meat  with  this. 
If  you  have  no  espagnole,  put  a  tea-spoonfal  of  flour  with 
the  peas ;  moisten  with  some  of  the  liquor  which  has 
braised  the  breast  of  lamb  or  mutton ;  reduce  it,  and 
season    with  salt  and  pepper. 

Boil  your   leg    of  lamb  either  in    a  cloth 
Leg  of  Lamb     or    paste ;    when    ready    dress    it    over    with 
h  la  Palestine,  a   pur^e    rather     thicker    than    usual    of    Je- 
rusalem artichokes. 

06s. — A   boiled   leg   my   also   be    dressed  with    a  purfe 
of  turnips  or   spinach. 

Foreguarter  Boast  your  lamb,  with  a  paper  over  it,  have 

of     Lamb  ready  a  sauce  prepared    with  the  green  tops 

aux  points  of  asparagus,  pour  it  round   the  lamb,    and 

d'  asperges.  serve  hot. 

Take    a  breast   of  lamb,    which     braize    as 

Breast,  with     above ;  stew  the  peas    also  in  the  same  man- 

peas     and'    ner,    but    instead    of    using    espagnole    you 

white  sauce,    must  use   some  tourn^,    or  else  a  small  bit 

of  butter,  and    a  tea-spoonful    of  flour    will 

answer  the  same  purpose  ;  moisten  with  broth  only.    Thicken 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  165 

the   sauce   with  the    yolks   of   two    eggs  to    give  a  white 
appearance* 

Fry   it  plain  ^    or    dip  it  in   an    egg  well 
To  fry  a  beaten   on  a  plate,  and  strew  some  fine  stale 

breast.  bread    crumbs    over    it;    garnish  with    crisp 

parsley,    and  serve   with  grill  sauce. 

First    boil  it;  score   it  in  chequers    about 
Sioulder,  an   inch  square;   rub  it    over  with  the  yolk 

grilled.  of  an  egg,  pepper,  and  salt;  strew  it  with 
bread  crumbs  and  dried  parsley,  or  sweet 
herbs ;  broil  it  over  a  clear  fire  till  it  is  a  nice  light 
brown  colour ;  send  up  some  gravy  with  it,  or  nlake  a 
sauce  for  it  of  flour  and  water  weU  mixed  together,  with 
an  ounce  of  fresh  butter,  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom 
or  walnut   catsup,  and  the  juice   of  half  a  lemon   or  lime. 

Take  as  many  mutton  or  lamb  chops  as 
Hotchpotch,  you  please;  cut  off  the  fat;  pr4>are  car- 
rots, turnips,  onions,  green  peas,  celery, 
lettuce,  in  fact  any  vegetables  (pepper  and  salt) ;  cut  into 
small  slices ;  place  a  layer  of  chops  first  in  the  stewpan ; 
cover  with  the  mixed  vegetables ;  put  on  another  layer  of 
chops,  and  so  on  until  the  whole  is  added;  then  cover 
with  water,  and  let  it  simmer  for  two  /Or  three  hours  gent- 
ly. The  vegetables  must  be  very  well  cooked,  but  not 
dissolved. 

Mince   the  lean   of  cold  lamb  or  veal  very 
Frieandel'        fine;  soak   a  large    slice  of    crumb  of  bread 
lans,  in    boiling   milk ;   mash    it   and   mix    with  it 

the  minced  meat,  a  beaten  egg,  some  boil- 
ed  chopped  parsley  and  thyme,  a  little  grated  lemon  peel, 
pepper  and  salt;  make  it  into  small  flat  cakes,  and  fry 
them  in  butter  or  ghee;  serve  up  dry  or  with  a  little 
rich  gravy. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


166  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

Select  them  of  a  large  size  aud  very  white ; 
Sweetbread  pare  the  sinews  aud    the  fat;    throw   the 

h  lay  Breux.  sweetbreads  into  warm  water  and  let  them 
disgorge  the  bloody  and  make  them  as  white 
as  possible ;  blanch  tliem  thoroughly,  which  is  known  by 
their  becoming  quite  firm  under  your  fingers ;  as  long  as 
you  feel  a  softness  in  them,  they  are  not  blanched  through. 
Then  set  them  to  cool  in  cold  water;  lard  them  with  ham 
chequer-like,  very  close  to  the  level  of  the  sweetbread; 
put  the  sweetbreads  between  layers  of  bacon,  and  stew 
them  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  next  drain  and  glaze 
them,  and  serve  up  either  with  Veloute  sauce  or  Espag- 
nole. 

Blanch  them  and  put  them  a  little  while 
Lamb^ sweet'  into  cold  water;  then  put  them  into  a 
breads.  stewpan  with  a  ladle-ful  of  broth,  some 
pepper  and  salt,  a  small  bunch  of  onions, 
and  a  blade  of  mace ;  stir  in  a  bit  of  butter  and  flour,  and 
stew  half  an  hour.  Have  ready  the  yolks  of  two  or  three 
eggs  well  beaten  in  cream  with  a  little  minced  parsley, 
and  a  few  grates  of  nutmeg;  put  in  some  boiled  aspa- 
ragus-tops to  the  other  things ;  do  not  let  it  boil  after  the 
cream  is  in,  but  make  it  hot  and  stir  it  well  all  the 
while  ;  take  great  care  it  does  not  curdle.  Young  French 
beans   or   peas  may  be  added  ;   first  boil  of  a  beautiful  green. 

Take    any     part    of    the     forequarter    or 

Lamb  or  Kid    loin ;  cut  it  into  slices    and    season  as    fowl 

pie.  or    veal    pie,    or    simply    with     mushrooms, 

spices,   and  sweet    herbs  ;   artichoke    bottoms 

and    hard    boiled   eggs  may  be  added. 

3kin    and  wash,  then  dry  and  flour  ihem  ; 

Fricasseed  fry  of   a  light  brown    in  ghee   or  butter  ; 

Lamb  secrets,     lay    them   on  a    sieve    before    the  fire  till 

you   have  made  the  following  sauce  ;  thick* 

en  almost   half   a  pint  of  veal    gravy  with   a     bit    of    flour 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  167 

and  butter^  and  then  add  to  it  a  slice  of  lemon,  a  large 
spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup^  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemou 
pickle^  a  grate  of  nutmeg  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten 
well  in  two  large  spoonfuls  of  thick  cream ;  put  this  over 
the  fire  and  stir  it  well  till  it  is  hot  and  looks  white ;  do 
not  let  it  bofl,  or  it  will  curdle ;  then  put  with  it  the  fry, 
and  shake  it  about  over  the  fire  for  a  minute  or  two ; 
serve  in  a  very   hot  dish. 

POEK. 
If  young,  the  skin  of  pork  is  thin  and  the  lean  breaks 
with  a  pinch  under  the  finger.  If  the  skin  is  hard  and 
thick,  it  is  old ;  though  the  old  is  best  for  hams.  When ' 
fresh,  the  meat  is  smooth  and  dry;  if  soft  and  spotted, 
it  is  tainted;  the  fat  should  be  clear  and  of  a  whitish 
colour,  free  from  kernels,  as  in  such  a  state  it  is  un- 
wholesome. 

When  the  skin  is    left  on   the  joint  which 
Pork  to  is   to    be  roasted,    score  it    across    in  narrow 

roast.  stripes,    or    in  .  diamonds    about  a  quarter  of 

an  inch  apart,  before  it  is  put  to  the  fire ; 
rub  a  little  sweet  oil  or  ghee  over  the  skin,  particularly 
if  the  meat  be  not  very  fat,  this  makes  the  crackling 
cnsp  and  brown,  and  is  the  best  way  of  preventing  its 
blistering,  which  is  always  the  case  if  put  too  near  the 
fire.  Fork  may  be  stuffed  with  sage  and  onions  as  for 
ducks.  Joints  from  which  the  fat  has  been  pared  will 
require  less  roasting  than  those  on  which  the  skin  is 
retained.  Brown  gravy,  apple,  tamarind,  or  tomata  sauce 
are  the  usual  accompanimeuts  to  all  roasts  of  pork,  ex- 
cept a  sucking  pig,  which  is  served  with  currant  jelly, 
prune  sauce^   or  bread  sauce  with  currants  in  it. 

Wash  it  well  from  the  pickle,   and  scrape 

To  boil  a  leg        it    as  clean  as  possible;  simmer    it     slowly, 

of  pickled         it  must   have  half  an  hour  to  the  pound. 

porL  Skim    the    pot    very     carefully,    and    when 

you    take  the    meat    up,    scrape  and    trim 


Digitized  by 


Google 


168  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

it  well ;  if  it  is  to  be  served  with  the  skin^  score  it  in  dia- 
monds or  dice,  and  take  out  every  other  sqnare ;  glaze 
or  sift  over  fine  sugar  and  set  it  in  an  oven,  or  glaze  it 
with  a  salamander;  serve  with  peas  pudding.  A  hand  or 
any  other  piece  of  pickled  pork  is  served  in  the  same 
way.  If  not  done  enough,  it  is  uneatable;  if  too  much, 
it  loses  its  colour  and  flavour. 

To  pickle.        See  receipt  for   beef,  hams,   &c. 

Trim   the  loin,   remove  the  skin   and  cover 
Loin  or  neck      it    with  paper,   previous   to  roasting  chop  up 
of  pork  h  la      six  large   onions,    put   them   into    a   stewpan 
Bourgingnote.  with    two    table-spoonfuk  of   butter  over  the 
fire;    when    tender    add  a    table-spoonful   of 
flour  or   arrowroot  with  a  ladle-ful  of  brown  sauce;   mix  and 
boil  the  whole  well,   then    add   a    tea-spoonful  of  chopped 
sage,  some  sugar    and  salt,   stir  in    the  beaten  yolks  of  four 
eggs,   when  set  remove     immediately    from  the  fire.    Then 
spread  it  over  the  pork  half  an  inch  thick,  place   it  in  the 
oven  for  a  few  minutes  and  brown  with  a  salamander,  serve 
with  a  sauce  prepared  as  follows :  Brown  sauce  half  a  pint, 
consomm^  four  table-spoonfuls,   one    of  sage,  two  of  mush- 
room catsup,  a  tea-spoonful   of  chillie  vin^ar,   a  little   su- 
gar and  salt. 

Cut  the  chops  about  half  an  inch  thick; 
Pork  chops*  trim  them  neatly ;  put  a  fryingpan  on  the 
fire  with  a  bit  of  butter ;  as  soon  as  it  is  hot 
put  in  your  chops,  tujming  them  often  till  brown  all  over. 
They  will  be  done  enough  in  about  fifteen  minutes;  sea- 
son with  a  little  finely  minced  onion,  powdered  sage,  pep- 
per, and  salt. 

Prepare  the  chops  as  the  last  receipt,  dip 

Another  way.    them  into  a  beaten  egg,  and  strew  over  them 

bread    crumbs,  finely   minced    onions,  powder- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANT)   COOKERY.  169 

ed  sage,    pepper  and    salt,    and  fry  in  a    little    butter  or 
ghee^   and  lay  them   upon   a  sieve    near  the  fire  to   drain. 

As  soon  as  it  is  killed,  dip  it  into  cold 
3b  9cald  a  water  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  rub  it  over  with 
tucking  pig*  finely  pounded  rosin,  and  plunge  it  into  scald- 
ing water  for  a  minute;  take  it  out,  lay  it 
on  a  board  and  scrape  off  all  the  hair;  if  any  remains^ 
that  part  must  be  dipped  in  again ;  when  clean,  wash  it 
well  in  warm  water  and  then  in  cold  several  times.  Take 
off  the  feet  at  the  first  joint;  slit  open  the  belly;  take 
out  the  liver,  heart,  and  entrails ;  wash  the  pig  thoroughly 
in  cold  water ;  dry  it  and  fold  it  in  a  cloth ;  the  sooner 
after  this  that  it  is  roasted   the    better. 

Stuff  the  belly  with  some  bread,  chopped  sage 
To  roast.  leaves,  butter,  an  egg,  salt  ^nd  pepper,  and  sew 

it  up ;  skewer  the  legs  back,  and  lay  it  near  a 
brisk  fire  until  thoroughly  dry;  as  it  becomes  warm,  rub 
it  with  some  butter  in  a  cloth  all  over ;  then  dredge  it 
well  with  flour,  and  when  roasted,  scrape  the  flour  off,  and 
rub  it  again  with  the  buttered  cloth ;  lay  it  on  a  very  hot 
dish,  and  ^  cut  it  up ;  mash  the  brains  with  a  little  gravy^ 
and  some  of  the    stuf&ng,  and   serve  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Oi«.— -The  plain  way  of  sending  a  roasted  pig  to  ta- 
ble, is  simply  with  a  lime  in  the  mouth  accompanied  with 
currant,  prunes,  apple,  sweet  tamarind  sauce,  or  bread  sauce 
with  currants  in  it. 

Prepare  the  pig  exactly  as  for  roasting ;  lay  it 
Bated.  in  a  dish,  and  brush  it  all  over  in  every  part  with 

the  white  of  an  egg  well  beaten,  and  put  it  in 
the  oven  to  bake;  when  it  will  be  nicely  crisped. 

Wash,  separate,   and  clean  very  thoroughly 

£rafon,  to        a  large  boar  or  pig's  head,  feet,  and  ears ;  lay 

caUar.  them  into  a  good-  brine  'for  twelve  hours  or 

more  with  a  little  saltpetre*    To  make  the  col« 

z 


Digitized  by 


Google 


J 70  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  KCONOMT 

lar  larger,  boil  two  ox  heels  with  the  head,  feet  and  ears, 
until  all  the  bones  can  easily  be  taken  ottt;  then  lay  the 
head  fiat,  and  the  feet  and  small  pieces  into  the  middle; 
roll  it  together  while  hot,  and  press  it  with  a  heavy  weight 
until  it  becomes  cold.  Boil  for  half  an  hour  in  as  much 
of  the  Uquor  as  will  cover  the  brawn,  a  handful  of  salt, 
one  ounce  of  black  and  white  pepper  mixed,  and  one  or 
two  bay  leaves;  when    cold,  pour  it  over  the  brawn. 

Obs,"^Iji    India  you    are    necessitated   to    omit  the  bay 
leaves;   a  few   peach  may  be    substituted. 

Take  the  blade-bone  out  of  the  shoulder 
Moei  brawn,  of  a  pig,  and  boil  it  gently  two  hours  or 
more,  according  to  the  age  of  the  animal. 
"When  it  is  cold,  season  it  very  highly  with  black  pepper, 
cayenne,  salt,  a  very  little  allspice,  minced  onion,  and 
thyme;  let  it  lie  a  night  in  this  seasoning;  the  following 
day  make  a  savoury  force-meat  of  pounded  veal,  ham,  beef 
suet,  minced  parsley,  thyme  and  an  onion,  a  little  lemon 
peel,  salt,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  cayenne;  bind  it  with  an 
egg  beaten,  and  stuff  where  the  bone  has  been  taken  out; 
put  it  in  a  deep  pan  with  the  brown  side  downwards,  and 
lay  underneath  some  twigs  or  sticks  to  keep  it  from  stick- 
ing to  the  bottom.  Four  in  a  bottle  of  beer,  and  put  it 
info  the  oven ;  when  nearly  done,  take  it  out  and  clear 
off  ail  the  fat;  add  a  bottle  of  madeira  or  other  white  wine, 
and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice;  return  it  to  the 
oven,   and  bake  it  until   it   becomes  as  tender  as  a  jeUy. 

Obs. — If  the  boar   is  an   old   one,  it  will   require  to  be 
baked  six   or  seven  hours.    This  is  eaten  hot. 

Take   the    bones  out  of  the  head   that    has 

Brawn  of         been   half  cooked  in  a  braise  of  half  vinegar 

calfs  head,    and  water,   with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  spices, 

sweet    herbs,     and  two    cloves  of  garlic;   let 

it   cool;    put   in  two  calfs  and   one   cow's    heel    that  have 

been  boiled  until  the  bones  can  be  easily  removed;  dredge 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  171 

atl  eqnally  over  with  fine  salt;  roll  hard  and  bind  it  well 
with  a  cloth  or  roller  tied  round  with  tape^  and  simmer  it 
very  slowly  from  three  to  four  hours;  it  must  not  boil. 
Keep  it  in  souse  made  of  the  liquor,  vinegar,  lime  or 
lemon  juice,  some  chillies  or  cayenne,  with  black  pepper 
whole,  and  a  sufficiency  of  salt;  give  this  a  boil  up,  and 
pour  over  it. 

A  ham  requires  to  be  well  soaked,  and 
Ham,  to  bail.  very  gently  stewed ;  if  it  is  suffered  to  boil 
up^  no  simmering  after  will  be  able  to  re- 
cover it.  It  is  best  soaked  in  lukewarm  water,  and,  if 
very  dry,  should  remain  in  it  at  least  twelve  hours;  wh^n 
it  is  sufficiently  soaked,  trim  it  very  clean;  put  it  into 
plenty  of  cold  wat«r,  and  remove  the  scum.  A  ham  of  a 
middling  size,  of  about  fifteen  pounds,  will  take  from  four 
to  five  hours,  and  if  to  be  eaten  cold,  will  be  all  the  better 
for  a  little  longer  boiling;  when  done,  remove  the  skin, 
and  dust  it  well  over  with  grated  crust  of  bread,  or  glaze 
it;  some  cooks  stick  cloves  over  it.  The  knuckle  should 
be  ornamented   with   a  frill  of  white   paper. 

Put  a  quantity  of  suet  into  the  pan  in 
Earn,  to  hake,  which  the  ham  is  baked,  and  cover  the  top 
with  a  coarse  paste;  the  gravy  in  the  dish, 
when  the  ham  is  properly  baked,  will  be  a  thick  jelly,  and 
serve  to  flavour  stock  or  soups,  or  may  l)e  converted  into 
essence   of  ham. 

Ham  may  be   broiled  on   a  gridiron  over 

Broiled  ham.     a  clear  fire,  or  toasted  with  a  fork,  taking  care 

to  slice  it    the   same   thickness  in    every  part. 

Make  a   good  rich   stock,   season   it   well 

Hampaaty,         with   mace,   salt,    pepper  and  sugar,  thicken 

meat  orJUh.    it  with   animal  jelly,  isinglass   or   arrowroot ; 

border    your    dish  with    paste,   dip   sippets 

nicely  prepared  into  well  seasoned  gravy,   or  cream,  accord* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


172  INDIAN   D0MV9TIC   fiOONOMY 

ing  to  whether  you  ase  meat  or  fish;  if  made  of  game, 
dip  them  into  a  gravy  with  wine,  lime  juice  and  sugar,  ky 
the  bottom  over  with  slice  of  ham  and  veal  or  fowl,  game 
or  venison,  or  fish  with  any  force-meat  balls  to  corres- 
pond, put  in  slices  of  marrow  dipped  in  yolks  of  eggs  well 
seasoned,  sprinkle  in  a  little  lemon  or  citron  peel  with 
sugar,  and  pour  in  some  of  the  prepared  stock,  and  the 
remainder  over  the  whole,  bake  and  eat  it  cold. 

Cut  a  pound  of  the  lean  of  cold  boiled 
Potted  ham  ham  or  tongue,  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar 
or  tongue.  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  fat  or  with 
fresh  butter  (in  the  proportion  of  about  two 
ounces  to  a  pound),  till  it  is  a  fipe  paste  (season  it  by 
degrees  with  a  little  pounded  mace  or  allspice) ;  press  it  close 
down  in  pots,  and  cover  it  with  clarified  beef  suet,  a  quar- 
ter of  an  inch  thick ;  let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place ;  send 
it  up  in  the  pot,  or  cut  out  in  thin  slices;  it  is  excellent 
for  sandwiches. 

Dry  your  meat  thoroughly;   rub  it  well  with 

Bacon,  to  equal  parts  of  salt  and  saltpetre  finely  pounded, 
cure  dry,  and  cover  over  with  a  board  and  heavy  weights 
in  a  cool  place;  in  twelve  hours  remove  the 
weights,  and  rub  each  piece  separately  and  thoroughly  with 
dry  salt,  repeating  the  same  daily;  sugar  and  limes  may 
be  added :  the  proportion  of  sugar  being  ^  about  two  ounces 
to  a  pound  of  salt,  with  four  limes.  If  the  weather  is  cool, 
the  meat  should  be  turned  and  rubbed  for  ten  or  twelve 
days  longer;  when  suflBciently  salted,  dry  it  well,  and  hang 
it  up   to   smoke  for  ten  days  more. 

Oi«.*— The    best  method    of    smoking   meat  in    India,  is 
with   green  mangoe  wood. 

Cover  the  quantity  of   bacon  you  please 
Bacon,  to  boil^     to  dress  with  cold  water ;    let  it  boil  gent- 
ly  three    quarters    of   an  hour,  if  for  one 
pound,    and    allow    a    quarter   or    more,   for    every   other. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  178 

Take  it  up;  scrape  the  underside  well^  and  cat  or  peel 
off  the  rind^  grate  a  crust  of  bread  over  the  top,  as  di- 
rected for  ham^  and  put  it  before  the  fire  ^for  a  few  mi- 
nutes. It  must  not  be  kept  there  too  long^  or  it  will 
spoil. 

O^^.^Bacon  is  sometimes  so  salt  as  to  require  soaking 
for  a  couple  of  hours  before  being  dressed ;  all  the  rusty 
and  smoked  part  should  be  then  cleaned  off^  and  the.  un- 
derside and  rind  scraped  as  clean  as  possible.  A  couple  of 
pounds  is    sufficient  to  serve  up  for  ten  or   twelve  persons. 

To  preserve  Wrap  the  bacon  round  with  new  hay  bands, 

from  rusting,  and   hang   in   a   safe   place   from  vermin. 

Bacon  may  be  fried  or  broiled  on  a  gridiron  over 
£acon,  slices    a    clear    fire,  or    toasted    with    a    fork,    cut- 
/ried.  ting  it  into   slices   (after  it  has  been   dressed) 

about  a  fourth  of  an  inch  thick;  grate  some 
crumbs  of  bread  over  it  on  both  sides,  and  grill  or  toast 
the  same.  They  are  an  agreeable  accompaniment  to  poach- 
ed  or  fried   eggs. 

Windsor    beans    should     be    served    young 

Beans  and        and   fresh  gathered:   boil    them    in    salt  and 

Bacon.  water;   when  done,   drain  them,  and  lay  the 

bacon    over   the    beans    without    any    sauce  - 

the    bacon    should    be   nicely    boiled.    Send    up   separately 

in  a  sauce-boat  chopped  parsley  in  melted  butter. 

06s* — ^Beans  are  likewise  an  excellent  garnish  to  a  ham ; 
serve  them  plain  round  it.  Duffin  beans  are  a  very  good 
substitute  for  Windsor,  only  they  require  the  skins  to  be 
taken  off  before  boiling. 

After  having  nicely  stewed    the    peas,    cut 

Bacon  and     the    bacon  into  pieces  an  inch   square,  or  any 

Peas.  other    fanciful   shape;   lay    them  in  water  for 

half   an    hour    to    take    off   the    briny    taste; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


174  INDIAN     DOMESTIC  £CONOMT 

then  fry  them   of   a  fine   colour,  and  drain    all   the. grease; 
then  stew  the  bacon   with  the   peas    for   a  few  seconds. 

Cut   the    bacon   very    nicely,  and   fry   it    of 
Bacon  and      a  light    brown  colour ;    dish   it  on  a  hot  plate  ; 
effffs.  wipe  the  fryingpan  very   clean,  and   let   it  be 

hot  enough,  not  to  allow  the  eggs  to  spread ; 
lay  them  in  gently;  lift  the  pan,  as  the  least  burning 
gives  them  an  unpleasant  taste;  dish  the  eggs  over  the 
bacon,   and  garnish   with   crisped   parsley. 

Put  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  at  the  bottom 
Fetittoes.  of  a  stewpan,  with  some  broth,  a  blade  of 
mace,  a  few  pepper-corns,  and  a  bit  of  thyme ; 
boil  the  feet  till  they  are  quite  tender.  This  will  take 
full  twenty  minutes,  the  heart,  liver  and  lights,  will  be 
done  in  half  the  time ;  when  they  are  to  be  taken  out  and 
minced  fine.  Put  them  all  together  into  a  steix'pan  with 
some  gravy;  thicken  it  with  some  butter  rolled  in  flour; 
season  it  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  set  it  over  a 
gentle  fire  to  simmer  for  five  minutes,  frequently  shaking 
them  about.  Have  a  thin  slice  ready  of  bread  toasted 
very  lightly,  divide  it  into  sippets,  and  lay  them  round 
the  dish  ;  pour  the  mince  and  sauce  into  the  middle  of 
it,   and   split   the  feet,   and  lay  them  round  it. 

N.   fi.— Petittoes    are  sometimes    broiled   dipped  in   bat- 
ter,  and  fried   a  light   brown. 

Take  a    pound    of   beef  suet,   a   pound  of 
Bologna  Sau-   pork,   a  pound   of  bacon    fat  and    lean,  and 
sages.  a  pound  of  beef  and    veal ;   cut  very  small ; 

take  a  handful  of  sage  leaves  chopped  very 
fine  with  other  sweet  herbs;  season  pretty  high  with 
pepper  and  salt;  take  a  large  well  cleaned  gut,  and  fill 
it;  set  on  a  saucepan  of  water,  and  when  it  boils,  put 
it  in,  first  pricking  it  to  prevent  its  bursting;  boil  it 
an  hour. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  175 

Mince  six  pounds  of  rump  of  beef  very 
Jbu>ther.  *  fine,  and  two  of  bacon  ;  pound  them ;  mix 
With  it  six  or  eight  cloves  of  garlic,  and 
season  high  with  spice,  black  pepper,  and  salt ;  fill  into 
large  well  cleaned  skins;  tie  them  in  nine  inch  lengths; 
hang  them  in  the  smoke.  They  should  be  boiled  and 
eaten  cold. 

Mince  bacon,  veal,   pork,  and  suet   of  each 
Jnother,  one   pound,   two   ounces  of  sage,  and   one  of 

basil  ;  season  with  three  cloves  of  garlic  to 
each  pound  ;  add  herbs,  such  as  thyme  and  parsley,  all- 
spice, nutmeg,  and  salt ;  pound  them  very  fine,  and  fill 
into  large  skins  nine  inches  long.  The  meat  may  be  pre- 
pared a  day  or  two  before,  with  a  little  saltpetre,  salt,  and 
brown  sugar ;  boil  and  hang  them  in  smoke,  and  eat  them 
cold. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


^ 


CHAPTER    X 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

It  is  the  common  practice  with  cooks  in  this  country, 
when  preparing  poultry  for  table,  to  partially  cut  the 
throat  of  the  bird,  throwing  it  on  the  ground  to  flutter, 
and  die ;  this  renders  it  tough.  When  fowls  cannot  be 
kept  a  sufficient  time^  and  are  required  for  immediate 
use,  cutting  off  the  head  at  one  stroke,  and  causing  sudden 
death,  will,  if  the  bird  is  not  an  old  one„  render  it  as  tender 
as  if  kept  for  several  days.  The  next  process  is  the  clean- 
ing ;  and  as  the  feathers  are  seldom  plucked  off,  being  of 
no  value,  and  time  generally  the  principal  object,  the  bird 
is  dipped  in  scalding  water,  and  the  feathers  at  once  strip- 
ped off ;  after  which,  it  must  be  dried  and  drawn  ;  the 
inside  removed  at  the  vent,  taking  care  not  to  injure  the 
gall  bladder,  as  it  taints  every  part  it  touches,  and  which 
no  washing  will  remove. 

Guinea  fowls,  as  well  as  other  poultry  which  require 
to  be  sent  to  table  with  their  heads  turned  under  the 
wing,  must  have  them  sewn  on  again,  if  killed  as  above 
recommended.  Ducks  and  pigeons  may  be  dressed  as  soon 
as  killed ;  the  latter  require  their  crops  to  be  very  care- 
fully washed  and   cleaned. 

A  quick  and  clear  fire  is  necessary  for  roasting  poul- 
try ;  wild  fowl  should  be  nicely  browned,  but  not  over- 
done, otherwise  the  flavour  will  .  be  destroyed.  They,  as 
well  as  tame  poultry,  require  to  be  continually  basted^ 
and  sent  to  table  properly    frothed. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY  AND  COOKERY.  177 

Are  larded  and   stuffed   as   poultry,    and 
Guinea  Fowls      roasted  in  the  same  manner,  only  they  re- 
quire less  doing  ;   the  head  must  be  turned 
under  the  wing    like  a  pheasant ;    when   boiled,  they   are 
dressed  as  fowls. 

After  the  fowl  has  been  drawn  and  sing- 
To    bone    a        ed,  wipe  it  inside  and  out  with  a  clean  cloth. 
Fowl  or  Tur-    but  do  not  wash  it ;   take  off  the  head  ;  cut 
iey  without      through  the  skin  all  round  the  first  joints  of 
opening  it.       the  legs,  and  pull  them    from   the  fowl  to 
draw  out  the  large  tendons.   Raise  the  flesh 
first  from  the  lower  part  of  the  back   bone,    and  a  little 
also  from   the   end   of  the   breast  bone,   if  necessary  ;   work 
the   knife  gradually  to    the  socket  of  the    thigh  with  the 
point  of  the  knife  ;  detach   the  joint   from  it ;  take  the  end 
of  the  bone  firmly  into  the  fingers,  and   cut  the  flesh  clean 
.  from  it  down  to  the  next  joint,  round  which  pass   the  point 
of  the  knife  carefully,  and  when  the  skin  is  loosened  from 
it  in  every  part,   cut   round    the   next   bone,   keeping    the 
edge  of*the  knife  close  to  it  until  the  whole  of  the  leg  is 
done.    Bemove    the  bones  of  the  other  leg    in    the  same 
manner ;  then  detach   the   flesh  from  the  back  and    breast 
bone,   sufiiciently  to  enable  you  to  reach   the  upper  joints 
of  the  wings — proceed  with  these  as  with  the  legs,  but   be 
especially  careful  not  to  pierce  the  skin  of  the   second  joint ; 
it  is   usual  to   leave  the  pinions  unboned,  in  order  to  give 
more   easily  its   natural  form  to  the  fowl  when  it  is  dressed. 
The   merry-thought   and  neck  bones  may  now  easily  be  cut 
away,  the  back  and  side  bones  taken    out  without  being  di- 
vided, and  the  breast  bone  separated  carefully  from  the  flesh 
(which,  as  the  work   progresses,  must  be  turned  back  from 
the  bones  upon  the  fowl   until  it  is  completely   inside  out). 
After  the  one   remaining   bone  is   removed,  draw    the  wings 
and  legs  back  to  their  proper  form,  and   turn  the  fowl  the 
right  side   outwards. 

A  turkey  is  boned  exactly  in  the  same    manner,  but  as 

y 


Digitized  by 


Google 


178  JVmAS     B01CS8TIC    KCONOMT 

it  requires  a  very  large. proportion  of  force*meat  to  fill  it 
eotireljr  the  legs  and  wings  are  sometimes  drawn  into  the 
body  to  diminish  the  expense  of  tiiis.  If  very  securely 
trussed  and  sewn^  the  bird  may  be  either  boiled  or  stewed 
in  rich  gravy,  as  well  as  roasted,  after  being  boned  and 
forced. 

First    carve  them    entirely   into  joints  ; 

To  bone  Fowls    then  remove  the  bones,  beginning  with  the 

for  fricasees^    legs  and  wings  at  the  head  of  the  largest 

curries  and      bone ;   hold  this  with  tiie  fingers,  and  work 

pies.  the  knife  as  directed   in  the  receipt  above* 

The   remainder   of  the    bird    is  ^  too  easily 

done  to  require  any  instructions. 

Turn  the  underside    of  the    mutton  up- 
2V  hone  a  leg    wards,   and  with  a  sharp  knife  cat  through 
of  mutton  and    the  middle   of  the    skin  from    the  knuckle 
force.  to  the  first  joint,  and  raise  it  from  the  flesh 

on  the  side  along  which  the  bone  ruiis, 
until  the  knife  is  just  above  it ;  then  cut  through  the  flesh 
down  to  the  bone  ;  work  the  knife  round  it  in  every  part 
till  you  reach  the  socket ;  next  remove  the  flat  bone  from 
the  large  end  of  the  joint,  and  pass  the  knife  freely  round 
the  remaining  one,  as  it  is  not  needful  to  take  it  out ;  dear 
off  the  meat  when  you  again  reach  the  middle  joint ;  loosen 
the  skin  round  it  with  great  care,  and  the  two  bones  can 
then  be  drawn  out  without  being  divided.  This  being  done, 
fill  the  cavities  with  the  force-meat,  adding  to  it  a  some- 
what high  seasoning  of  eschalot,  garlic  and  onion ;  or  cut  out 
with  the  bone  nearly  a  pound  of  the  inside  of  the  mut- 
ton ;  chop  it  fine  with  six  ounces  of  delicate  striped  ba- 
con, and  mix  with  it,  thoroughly,  three  quarters  of  an 
ounce  of  parsley  and  half  as  much  of  thyme  and  winter 
savory,  all  minced  extremely  small,  a  half  tea-spoonful  of 
pepper  (or  a  third  as  much  of  cayenne),  the  same  of  mace, 
salt,  and  nutmeg,  and  either  the  grated  rind  of  a  small 
lemoa  or  four  eschalots  finely  shred.  When  the  lower  part 
of  the  leg  is  filled,  sew  the  skin  neatly  together  where  it 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOIKRT.  179 

has  been  cat  open^  and  tie  the  knuekle  ronnd  tightly,  to 
prevent  the  escape  of  the  gravj.  Beplace  the  flat  bone 
at  the  large  end,  and  with-  a  long  needle  and  twine  draw 
the  edges  of  the  meat  together  over  it.  If  it  can  be  done 
conveniently,  it  is  better  to  roast  the  mutton  thns  prepar* 
ed  in  a  cr&dle  spit,  or  upon  a  hanging  or  bottle-jack  with 
the  knnckle  downwards.  Place  it  at  first  far  from  the  fire, 
and  keep  it  constantly  basted;  it  will  require  nearly  or 
quite  three  hours  roasting.  Bemove  the  twine  before  it 
is  served,  and  send  it  very  hot  to  table  with  some  rich 
lemon  gravy. 

Spread    a    dean     cloth    upon  a  table  or 

lb    bone    a    dresser,    and    lay    the    joint    flat    upon    it 

Moulder  rf  with    tiie     skin    downwards;     with  a    sharp 

tealj  mnU    knife     cot    off    the    flesh    from    the    inner 

tan,  or  lamb,  side    nearly    down  to    the    blade    bone,    of 

which    detach    the    edges    first :  then    work 

the  knife  under   if,  keeping  it   always  dose  to  the  bone, 

and  using  all  possible    precaution  not  to  pierce  the  outer 

akin.    When  it  is  in  every  part   separated  frcHn  the  flesh, 

looeen  it  from  the  socket  with  the  point  of  the  knife,  and 

remove  it;  or  without  dividing  the   two   bones,  cut  round 

the  joint  until  it  is    freed    entirely    from   the    meat,  and 

proceed  to  detach  the  second  bone;  that  of  the  knuckle  is 

frequently  left  in,  but  for  some  dishes   it  is  necessary  to 

take  it  out;  in  doing    this,   be    careful  not  to    tear  the 

akin.    A  most  excellent    grill    may    be    made  by    leaving 

sufficient  meat  for  it     upon     the   bones  of  a    shoulder  of 

mutton,    when  they  are    removed    from    the  joint;  it  will 

be  found    very    superior    to  the    broiled    blade-bone  of   a 

roast  shoulder,  which  is  so  much  esteemed  by  many  people. 

^'To  remove  the    back-bone  clear  from  it 

To  bane  a         first  the  fiesh  in  the    inside;   lay  this  back 

Hare.  to  the  right  and  left  from  the  centre  of  the 

bone  to  the  tips;  then    work    the  knife  on 

the   upper  side  quite   to  the  spme,  and    when  the  whole 


Digitized  by 


Google 


180  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

P 

is  detached  except  the  skin  which  adheres  to  this^  sepa- 
rate  the  bone  at  the  first  joint  from  the  neck-bone  or 
ribs  (we  know  not  how  more  correctly  to  describe  it)^  and 
pass  the  knife  with  caution  nnder  the  skin  down  the  ^mid- 
dle of  the  back.  The  directions  for  boning  the  thiglis  of 
a  fowl,  will  answer  equally  for  a  hare^  and  we  therefore 
refer   the  reader  to  them." 

To  acquire    this  art,  it  is  necessary,   that 
Larding.  the  beginner   should  first  see  the  process  per- 

formed, after  which,  practice  alone  will  lead 
to  success.  The  instruments  necessary  are  pins  of  various 
sizes  made  for  the  purpose ;  one  end  like  large  tweezers^ 
holds  the  substance  to  be  introduced,  the  other  is  sharp 
for  puncturing  the  fowl  or  meat ;  however,  if  the  person 
is  unacquainted  with  the  art,  it  is  better  left  undone;  for 
unless  the  meat  be  nicely  and  equally  covered,  its  appear- 
ance is  totally  spoilt,  and  unfit  for  the  table.  Ham,  bacon, 
oyster,  anchovies,  truf3es,  morels,  mushrooms,  parsley,  le- 
mon peel,  almonds,  nuts,  &c.,  are  all  used.  Bacon  for 
this  purpose  should  be  cured  without  saltpetre,  otherwise 
it  turns  veal  or  poultry  red;  the  firmest  is  most  proper 
for   larding. 

Alderman  in         Is  either   a   roast  or    boiled    turkey    with 
chains  the    accompaniment  of    sausages    around  the 

dish,  and  which  may  be  made  of  pork,  ham 
or   beef,   and   oysters. 

Take    a  hen   or    fine    young    cock;  dean 

Turkey  boiled,  and  truss   it    nicely ;    wrap   it  up  in    layers 

toith  celery   of  bacon  in   a  cloth ;     then   boil  it  in  plain 

sauce.  water  with   a  little    salt,    butter,  and     lemon 

juice;   drain    it  and  cover  it  over  with  celery 

or    oyster  sauce.     A  small  hen  bird  boils  better  than   the 

larger  sort,  and  may  be   stuffed   in  a  variety  of  ways,  with 

herbs  like  veal   stuffing,  sausage  meat,  or  bacon,  and  served 

with  white  sauce,  or   the  above. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  181 

Fill  the  body  of  the  turkey  with  oysters. 
Boiled  if  and  let  it  boil  by  steam  without  any  water; 
steam*  when  sufficiently  done,  take  it  up;  strain 
the  gravy  that  will  be  found  in  the  pan,  and 
which,  when  cold,  will  be  a  fine  jelly ;  thicken  it  with 
a  little  flour ;  add  the  liquor  of  the  oysters  intended  for 
sauce,  also   stewed,  and  warm  the  oysters   up    in  it. 

A  roast  turkey  may  be  stuffed  in  various 
MoastedTuT'  ways;  a  veal  stuffing  being  the  most  com- 
ity, mon.  When  you  first  put  a  turkey  down 
to  roast,  dredge  it  with  flour;  then  put 
about  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  basting  ladle,  and  as  it 
melts,  baste  the  bird  therewith ;  keep  it  at  a  distance 
from  the  fire  for  the  first  half  hour,  that  it  may  warm 
gradually;  then  put  it  nearer,  and  when  it  is  plumped 
up,  and  the  steam  draws  in  towards  the  fire,  it  is  near- 
ly enough;  then  dredge  it  lightly  with  flour,  and  put  a 
bit  of  butter  into  your  basting  ladle,  and  as  it  melts, 
baste  the  turkey  with  it ;  this  will  raise  a  finer  froth 
than  can  be  produced  by  using  the  fat  out  of  the  pan. 
A  very  large  turkey  will  require  about  three  hours  to 
roast  thoroughly;  a  middling  sized  one,  of  eight  or  ten 
pounds  (which  is  far  nicer  eating  than  the  very  large  one), 
about  two  hours;  a  small  one  may  be  done  in  an  hour 
and  a  half.  Turkey  poults  should  be  trussed  with  their 
l^s  twisted  under  like  a  duck,  and  the  head  under  the 
wing,   like  a  pheasant.    , 

Clean  the  fowl  nicely;  mix  a  little  butter 
Boaei  Fowl,  with  lime  juice,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  put 
into  the  inside ;  cut  off  or  turn  up  the  rump ; 
fix  it  to  the  spit  by  skewers,  and  cover  with  paper ;  when 
nearly  done,  unpaper,  froth,  and  give  it  a  nice  brown. 
Towls  may  be  stuffed  with  a  farce  and  larded,  or  the  bodies 
filled  with  a  ragout  of  mushrooms,  oysters,  served  with 
bread,  egg,  or  any  other  sauce;  a  large  fowl  will  take 
from   a  half  to  three  quarters  of  an   hour  roasting. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


I8f  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECOXOMY 

Obs. — A  turkey  or  large  fowl  may  be  boned  and  stuff- 
ed with  a  farce  g[  sausage  meat^  but  so  prepared  takes  a 
much  longer  time-  roasting^  and  must  at  first  be  placed  at 
a  distance  from   the  fire. 

Fowls^  when  to  be  boiled,  should  be 
Fowl,  to  boil.  soaked  an  hour  or  two  in  milk  and  water ; 
then  truss  and  fiour  them  well;  tie  them 
in  a  cloth ;  put  them  in  cold  water,  and  let  them  simmer 
gently,  removing  all  the  scum  that  rises ;  keep  the  sauce* 
pan  closed,  and  boil  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes. 
They  may  be  served  with  sauce  of  oysters,  shell  fish, 
mushrooms,  liver,  egg,  parsley,  celery,  and  any  other  ve- 
getable. A  spiced  rice-pudding  may  be  put  in  the  inside, 
but  the  vent  and  neck '  must  be  well  secured  previous  to 
being  boiled. 

Skin  a  cold  chicken,  fowl,  or  turkey  ; 
Fowl  or  Turkey    take  off  the  fillets  from  the   breasts,  and 
pulled.  put    them    into   a  stewpan  with  the    rest 

of  the  white  meat  and  wings,  side  bones 
and  merry-thoughty  with  a  pint  of  broth,'  a  large  blade  of 
mace  pounded,  a  shallot  minced  fine,  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  and  a  roll  of  the  peel,  some  salt  and  a  few  grains 
of  cayenne;  thicken  it  with  flour  and  batter,  and  let  it 
simmer  for  two  or  three  minutes  till  the  meat  is  warm. 
In  the  meantime,  score  the  legs  and  rump;  powder  them 
with  pepper  and  salt;  broil  them  nicely  brown,  and  lay 
them  on  or  round  your   pulled  chicken* 

Obe. — ^Three  table-spoonfuls  of  good  cream,  or  the  beaten 
yolks  of  a  couple  of  eggs,  will  be  a  great  improvement  to  it. 

Cut  into   slices  a    coupk  of  onions,    a 

Brmeed  roast        head  of  celery,  one  carrot    and  a  turnip, 

Turkey,  Capon   with  some  parsley  and  three  or  four  peach 

or  Ibwl.  leaves,  lay  three  sheets    of  paper  on  the 

table,    spread    the    vegetaUes     over,   aikI 

moisten  them  with  sweet  oil.    Have    the    bird    kuMed   as 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AlO)  COOKERY.  183 

for  boiling,  cover  the  breast  with  thin  8lices  of  bacon, 
lay  the  back  of  the  bird  on  the  vegetables^  slice  some 
limes,  which  cover  the  breast  with  to  preserve  its  colour, 
tie  the  paper  round  with  string,  spit  it  carefully  and 
roast  before  a  clear  fire ;  before  so  doing  moisten  the  pa- 
per well  with  fine  jj^hee  to  prevent  its  burning,  and  set 
the  bird  a  moderate  distance  from  the  fire,  it  will  take 
three  hours  to  roast. 


Empty  and  clean  a  fine  fowl,  and  be 
Turiisi  Fowl.  particular  in  washing  the  inside  of  it  with 
very  hot  water;  if  you  leave  any  blood 
in  it  the  rice  will  be  full  of  scum.  Your  rice  having 
boiled  a  sufficient  time  in  rick  consomm^  (stock  broth), 
season  it  with  salt,  and  introduce  some  into  the  body  of 
the  fowl,  which  you  next  roast,  well  wrapped  up  in 
layers  of  bacon,  and  in  paper ;  it  requires  an  hour  to 
have  it  sufficiently  done.  Send  it  up  with  rice  round 
the  fowl,  the  same  as  you  have  used  to  put  inside,  only 
add  to  it  two  spoonfuls  of  very  good  bechamel,  well  sea- 
soned; do  not  let  it  be  too  thin,  and  pour  a  little  ve- 
loute  over  the  fowl.  Take  particular  care  to  keep  the 
fowl  white. 


Prepare  and  truss  the  fowls;  let  them 
Frieaneei^  boil;  skim  and  simmer  i*i  a  vegetable  braise 
FowU.  seasoned  with  mace,  lemon,  zest,  white  pep- 
per, salt,  onion,  and  carrot;  if  it  is  a  small 
chicken,  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes  will  do  it,  as  it  should 
rather  be  tender  than  overdone.  Take  it  up,  and  strain 
the  stock;  add  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  rice  or  fine 
wheat  flour;  cook  and  work  it  till  quite  smooth;  when 
properly  cooked,  cut  up  and  put  in  the  chicken  and  let  it 
wana  with  a  cupful  of  rich  cream,  but  do  not  let  it  boil; 
when  r^y  to  dish,  put  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  yolk  of 
q^gs;  to  finish  the  thickening,  cooked  mushroom,  oysters, 
or    any    nice    vegetable    may    be    added,    and  a  little    le- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


184  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

mon  juice.    If  it    require    more  richness^  put  in   a  small 
bit  of   butter ;   garnish  with  slices   of  lemon. 

Cut  up  the  fowl  into  eight  or  nine  pieces. 
Another.  put  them  into  a  stewpan  and  cover  with  water, 
add  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper,  parsley  and  a 
blade  of  mace,  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  then  remove  the 
fowl,  strain  the  gravy  through  a  napkin  into  a  basin,  dr^ 
the  slices  of  fowl,  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  two 
spoonfuls  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  add  the  stock  and  keep 
stirring  it  till  >  it  boils,  skim  it  well,  then  add  a  few  button 
onions  or  handful  of  mushrooms,  let  it  simmer  till  the 
onions  are  tender,  then  add  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beat  up  in 
four  table-spoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk,  shake  it  well  over 
the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  dress  the]  slices  on  your 
dish  and  pour   the  sauce  oyer  them. 

Mince  finely  the  white   meat  of  a  fowl,  and 

Sissoles  of       some    v^loute    reduced,  or    bechamel ;    season 

Fowl.  it    highly,   and    add,    if    you   please,    a  little 

curry   powder ;    then  let   it   cool ;  when  .cold, 

divide  into   small    balls,   and  wrap   them  up   in   paste;   fry 

and  serve  with  fried  parsley,  or  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cut  the  meat  of  a  fowl  or  chicken  into 
Croquetles  small  pieces,  and  season  it  well;  put  them  in- 
of  Fowl,  to  some  bechamel,  and  let  them  cool;  then 
form  into  oblong  balls,  and  dip  them  into  a 
beaten  egg  or  very  light  batter,  and  then  into  crumbs  of 
bread ;  fry  them  of  a  light  brown,  and  serve  with  crisp 
parsley. 

04*.— They    may   be  made  with  any   white  meat,  rabbits, 
poultry,   sweetbread,  or   game. 

Mince    some    mushrooms ;    cook    them    in 
JUince  Fowl,    butter,   sweet  herbs,  mace,   white  pepper,    le- 
mon, zest,  salt,  and  a  little   cream ;  when  all 
is   well   cooked,  take   out   the  sweet   herbs,   and  put  in  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERT.  X95 

mince  just  to  warm,  with  a  little  lemon  juice ;  garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon,  or  dish  in  a  vol-au*vent,  croustade,  rice 
border,  or  mashed   potatoes. 

Cut  the  livers  all  of  one  size — the  lobes 

KhvAab  liver,       of  calves;    pigs'     or   lambs'   livers     answer 

with  oysters  or  very     well — allow  three    oysters    for  every 

tray-fish.  liver ;    season  them    well  in   sweet     herbs, 

spices,  and  salt ;  dip  them  in  yolks  of  egg, 

and  roll  them  in  crumbs  with  the   othet  ingredients ;  thread 

them   upon   silver  skewers,    and   broil  them  in  a  buttered 

paper,   or  in   a  case ;   serve    them   with   buttered  gravy  and 

lemon  juice  ;  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 

If  cray  fish  are  used,  put  a  little  bit  of  anchovy  in  the 
claws  of  each,  and  thread  them  at  proper  distance  with 
the  other  meat,  as  livers  take  very  little  cooking.  They 
are  equally  well  done,  roasted  on  a  bird*jack  well  basted ; 
the  cray-fish  are  the  better  for  being  crisped  in  the  oven, 
and  well  basted  before  they  are  put  on  the  skewers.  The 
large  elaws  and  noses  must  be  pared,  and  the  tail-shell  may 
be  taken   off. 

Prepare  them  as  for  boihng  ;  lard  or  not ; 
towU  with  mix  nearly  half  a  pound  of  butter  with   mace, 

Oysters,  lemon,   zest^  and  salt,  and  put  it  into  the 

fowls  ;  tie  them  close,  that  the  butt.er  may 
not  escape  ;  cover  a  pan  with  bacon  and  braising  ingredi- 
ents ;  put  in  the  fowl ;  prepare  in  the  meantime  five  or  six 
dozens  of  oysters  in  a  nice  sauce,  and  dish  them  over  it, 
garnished   with    sliced    onions  and    oysters,   fried   in  butter. 

Oi*. — Poultry  may  always  be  larded  excepting  for  boil- 
ing ;  if  braised,  the  braise  ought  never  to  touch  the  lard, 
as   it  will  make  it  fall. 

Cut  them   into  joints  ;  put  the  trimmings 

Hashed  gamt        into  a  stewpan,  with   a  quart  of  the   broth 

Of  rabbit,         they   were  boiled  in,  and  a  large  onion  cat 

in  four  ]  let  it  boil  half  an  hour ;  strain  it 

z 

•      ^  Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


186  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ICONOMT     . 

through  a  sieve  ;  then  put  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour  in 
jk  basin^  and  mix  it  well  by  degrees  with  the  hot  broth  ; 
set  it  on  the  fire  to  boil  up  ;  then  strain  it  through  a  fine 
sieve  ;  wash  out  the  stewpan  ;  lay  the  fowl  in  it^  and  pour 
the  gravy  in  it  (through  a  sieve)  ;  set  it  by  the  side  of  the 
fire  to  simmer  very  gently  (it  must  not  boil)  for  fifteen 
minutes ;  five  minutes  before  you  serve  it  up,  cut  the  stuff- 
ing in  slices,  and  put  it  in  to  warm  ;  then  take  it  out, 
and  lay  it  round  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  put  the  fowl  in 
the  middle  ;  carefully  skin  the  fat  off  the  gravy  ;  then 
shake  it  round  well  in  the  stewpan,  and  pour  it  on  the  hash. 

N.    B. — Tou  may  garnish  the   dish    with    bread   sippets 
lightly  toasted. 

Take   a  large  fowl  or   a  couple  of    fine 
Fowl  or  Chick"     chickens,   boiled  or  roasted,  cut  the  meat  off 
en  talad.  from  the  bones  in  small  slices,  have  two  or 

three  sticks  of  white  celery  and  cut  them 
into  slices  an  inch  long,  mix  both  together,  cover  it  over 
and  set  it  on  one  side,  whilst  you  prepare  the  sauce.  Break 
down  the  yolks  of  five  hard-boiled  eggs,  with  the  back  of 
a  spoon  into  a  smooth  paste,  add  a  large  spoonful  of  made 
mustard  with  some  salt,  mix  this  together  with  four  or  five 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  lastly  by  degrees  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  sweet  oil  or  cream,  stir  the  whole  for  some  time 
until  the  dressing  is  thoroughly  mixed  and  smooth,  when 
pour  it  over  the   meat  and  celery,  just  before  serving. 

Obs. — ^If  cream  is   used   and  the  sauce  is  too  thick,  add 
a  spoonful   or  two  of  water. 

Cut  them  in  quarters;  beat  up  an  egg 
To  dress  cold,  or  two  (according  to  the  quantity  you  dress) 
with  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and  pepper 
and  salt,  some  parsley  minced  fine,  and  a  few  crumbs  of 
bread;  mix  these  well  together,  and  cover  the  fowl,  &c., 
with  this  batter  ;  boil  them  or  put  them  in  a  Dut.ch  oven, 
or   have  ready   some  dripping   hot   in   a  pan,   in  which   fry 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKBRT.  I8T 

ihtm  a  light  brown  colour;  thicken  a  little  gravy  with 
some  floor ;  put  a  large  spoonful  of  catsUp  to  it ;  lay  the 
fry  in  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  round  it.  You  may  gar- 
nish with  slices  of  lemon  and  toasted  bread. 

To  judge  if  an  egg  is  fresh,  put  it  into 
Ilggs,  remaris  on.  a  large  basin  of  water ;  if  it  sink  imme- 
diately you  may  be  sure  it  is  good.  Be* 
member  that  all  eggs  are  not  of  the  same  size,  and  in 
nsing  any  quantity  for  cakes  a  litUe  judgment  is  neces- 
sary. To  preserve  them  for  any  time,  lay.  them  in  lime 
and  water,  the  consistence  of  thick  cream.  Hard-boiled 
eggs  will  keep  well  for  a  journey,  only  remember,  while 
boiling,  when  first  put  into  the  water,  tx>  move  them  about 
so  that  the  yolk  may  not  fall  on  one  side,  but  be  as  near 
the  middle  as  possible  in  the  white.  Eggs  will  also  keep, 
if  rubbed  over  with  wax  so  as  to  close  up  the  pores  in  the 
shell.  * 

Whenever  eggs  are  required  for  puddings,  cakes,  jellies, 
&c.»  open  each  separately  over  another  basin  or  dish  be- 
fore adding  to  the  rest,  as  one  bad  egg  carelessly  thrown 
amongst  the  others,  will  spoil  the  whole ;  and  always  strain 
them  after  being  beaten  up. 

Pour  a    gallon   of  water    over  a  pound   of 

To  jpreserve.     unslaked    lime;    stir    it    well;    the    following 

day   pour  off  the   clear   water   into  a  jar,  and 

put  in  the  eggs  as  they  are  laid ;   in  this  manner  they  will 

continue  good  for  six  months  or  more. 

Beat  up  the  yolks  and  white  of  eight  eggs, 
E^s  brouilUs.  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  until  well  mix- 
ed; then  put  them  into  a  stewpan  over  a 
slow  fire,/  and  keep  constantly  stirring  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  that  the  brouiU^s  may  be  quite  smooth  ;  add  a  spoon- 
ful of  consomm^  or  white  broth,  with  whatever  articles  you 
intend  putting  into  it ;  trufflesi  mushrooms,  artichokes,  as- 
paragus  heads;  broth,  &c. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


188  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

Boil  hard   one    dozen  of  eggs;   cat    them 
Sgg8  en  Sur-   in  halves^    and  remove  the  yolks,   which   put 
j)me.  into  a  mortar  with    three    table-spoonfuls  of 

butter,  and  pound  well  together,  mixing  a 
little  cream,  grated  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt,  adding  two 
raw  e^s  to  make  it  bind ;  then  pare  out  the  inside  of  the 
whites  as  thin  as  possible,  and  fill  one  half  with  the  pound- 
ed egg;  then  mix  some  chopped  parsley  with  a  part  only 
of  the  eggs  sufficient  to  fill  the  remaining  whites;  make 
a  dome  in  a  dish  of  the  remainder  of  the  pounded  ingredi- 
ents, and  trim  it  all  round  with  the  stuffed  eggs ;  then  put 
into   an   oven  for  ten  minutes,   and  serve  quite   hot. 

Put  in  cold  water,  and  when  it  comes 
E^ffs  to  boil,  slowly  to  a  boil,  they  will  be  done  enough^ 
or  put  them  in  boiling  water,  and  sim- 
mer slowly  for  two  minutes;  take  them  from  the  fire,  and 
put  them  into  a  napkin  several  times  folded  for  two  or 
three  minutes,  less  or  more.  Boiling  quick  hardens  the 
white,  and  cracks  the  shell ;  if  an  egg  is  only  half  coverr 
ed  with  water  and  boiled  quick  the  yolk  is  too  much 
done  on  one  side,  and  too  little  on  the  other,  and  gives 
it  an  addled  appearance,  or  if  the  egg  is  covered  with 
water  and  boiled  too  quick,  the  white  is  quickly  harden- 
ed,  while   the   yolk   is  nearly  raw. 

Be  sure  the     fryingpan  is   quite   clean     (and 
Fried.  remember  that  clear  dripping  or  lard  is  better 

than  butter  or  ghee  to  fry  eggs  in :)  when  the 
fat  is  hot,  break  two  are  three  eggs  into  it ;  do  not  turn 
them,  l)ut  while  they  are  frying  keep  pouring  some  of  the 
fat  over  them  in  a  spoon;  they  will  be  done  enough  in 
two  are  three  minutes;  if  they  are  done  nicely  they  will  . 
look  as  white  and  delicate  as  if  they  had  been  poached; 
take  then>  up  with  a  tin  slice ;  drain  the  fat  from  them, 
and  trim  them  neatly  and  send  them  up  with  bacon  round 
them. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


▲XD    COOKEEY.  189 

The    beauty  of  a   poached    egg  is  for  the 
PoaeAed.  yolk    to  be    seen  through    the    white^  which 

should  be  only  sufficiently  hardened  to  form 
a  transparent  veil  for  the  egg.  Half  fill  your  stewpan 
with  clear  boiling  water  from  the  tea-kettle^  and  strain 
it;  break  the  egg  into  a  cup,  and  when  the  water  boils, 
remove  the  stewpan  from  the  fire  or  stove,  and  gently 
slip  the  egg  into  it.  Let  it  stand  till  the  white  is  set; 
then  put  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  as  soon  as  the  wa- 
ter boils  the  egg  is  ready;  take  it  up  with  a  slice,  and 
neatly  round  oflf  the  rugged  edges;  send  them  up  on  a 
toast,  with  or  without  butter;  the  toast  should  be  a  lit- 
tle larger  than  the   egg. 

Boil  six  cloves   of  garlic  five  minutes,  and 
Egg  9alad.        pound  them   with  a  few  capers  and  two   an- 
chovies ;  mix    them   very   well  with  oil,   salt, 
pepper,  and   vinegar,   and   dish   it  under  hard   boiled   eggs, 
whole  or  cut  in  two. 

Choose  some  very  fine  bacon  streaked 
Egg  mince.  with  lean ;  cut  it  into  very  thm  slices,  and 
afterwards  into  small  square  pieces;  throw 
them  into  a  stewpan,  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire,  that 
it  may  draw  out  some  of  the  fat,  when  as  much  as  will 
freely  come,  lay  them  on  a  warm  dish  ;  put  into  a  stew- 
pan a  ladle-ful  of  ghee  or  lard  ;  set  it  on  a  stove;  put  in 
about  a  dozen  small  pieces  of  the  bacon;  then  stoop  the 
stewpan,  and  break  in  an  egg ;  manage  this  carefully,  and 
the  egg  will  presently  be  done;  it  will  be  very  round, 
and  little  dice  of  bacon  will  stick  to  it  all  over,  so 
that  it  will  make  a  pretty  appearance.  Take  cafe  the 
yolks  do  not  harden ;  when  the  egg  is  thus  done,  lay  it 
on   a    hot  plate,  and   do  the  others. 

Beat    and    strain     ten    or  twelve   eggs;    put 

Buttered        a  piece  of    butter  into  a  saucepan,  and    keep 

Eggs.         turning  it  one  way    till    melted-;  put    in    the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


190  INDIAN  D01IS8TIC  XCONOMT 

beaten  eggs  and  stir  them  round  with  a  silver  spoon  until 
they  become  quite  thick  ;  serve  them  on  a  dish  with  but- 
tered  toast.    They  may  be  eaten   with  fish^   fowl  or  sausages. 

To  roast    must  be  done    as  a  capon^   and 
Chickens.  served  with  e^  or  bread  sauce. 

Pick,   wash    them  clean,  and   dry  them  in 
Broiled  or        a  cloth;   cut  them  down  the  back:  truss  the 
grilled.  legs  and  wings  as  for  boiling;    flatten  them^ 

and  put  upon  a  cold  gridiron  ;  when  they 
become  a  little  dry,  put  them  in  a  plate,  and  baste  with 
a  little  butte;;  strew  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  the 
inside,  which  part  should  be  laid  first  on  the  gridiron; 
baste  them,  and  let  them  broil  slowly.  The  livers  and 
gizzards  should  be  fastened  under  the  wings.  Serve  with 
catsup  or  stewed  mushrooms. 

Put  into  a  stewpan  half  a  pint  of  water,  two 
Fricassee,  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  a  table-spoonful  of  flour, 
some  salt,  and  white  pepper;  stir  all  together 
until  it  is  hot,  and  add  a  chicken  cut  into  joints  and 
skinned,  with  a  couple  of  onions  minced  and  a  blade  of 
mace;  stew  it  for  an  hour,  and  a  little  before  serving, 
add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream;  stir  it  in  gradually,  taking  care  it 
does  not  boil. 

Obs. — ^Whenever   egg    and  cream    is  added  and  used   for 
a  thickening,    never  let  it  boil,   or  else  it  curdles. 

Cut  a  roast  fowl  into  small  squares,  fry  a 
Bissoles  de  tea-spoonful  of  chopped  onions  in  half  an 
Volatile.  ounce  of  butter ;  but  do  not  let  them  brown  ; 
add  half  a  pint  of  white  sauce,  and  reduoe  it 
to  a  proper  thickness,  put  the  fowl  into  the  sauce,  sea* 
son  with  a  little  salt,  white  pepper,  sugar,  chopped  pars- 
ley and  mushrooms,  let  it  boil,  then  add  the  yolk  of  two 
eggs;  stir  it  well,  when  the  eggs  have  set  pour  it  on  a 
dish  to  cool. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  191 

06i. — Add,  if  you  like,  a  little  ham  or  tongue,  and 
use  this  as  for  other  rissoles»  which  may  also  be  made 
with   veal,   sweet   breads,   or  game. 

Half  roast  a  chicken  or  fowl;  skin  and 
To  pull  a  peal  off  all  the  white  meat  in  flakes,  as  well 
Ckicien.  as  the  legs;  break  the  bones,  and  boil  them 
in  a  little  water  till  the  strength  be  drawn 
out;  strain  it,  and  when  it  becomes  cold,  skim  and  put 
it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  mace,  white  pepper,  and 
salt;  add  a  bit  of  butter  mixed  with  flour,  and  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  of  cream  or  rich  milk ;  then  put  in  the  meat 
with  a  little  mushroom  powder  or  catsup ;  before  serving 
add  the  squeeze  of  a  lime. 

Cut  the     chicken    into    joints;   put     them 
Chicken  in       into  a  saucepan   with  nearly   a   quart   of  young 
pe<u*  peas,   a  bit   of  butter,  a  small   onion,   and  a 

sprig  of  parsley;  moisten  them  with  gravy, 
and  put  on  the  fire;  dust  them  with  a  little  flour,  and 
boil  them  till  the  sauce  is  thick ;  add  a  little  salt  just  be- 
fore serving   with   a  little   sugar. 

Parboil,  skin,  and  then  cut  up  neatly  two 
Chicken  pie.  or  three  young  chickens;  season  them  with 
salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg  and  mace  mixed; 
put  with  them  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour ;«  lay  them  in 
a  dish,  with  the  livers  and  gizzards  well  seasoned,  some 
force-meat  balls,  and  a  few  thin  slices  of  ham;  and  half 
a  pint  of  gravy,  a  glass  of  wine,  and  a  table-spoonful  of 
lemon  pickle  or  mushrooms,  and  the  yolks  of  five  hard 
boiled  eggs,  divided  in  halves ;  cover  with  a  puff  paste 
and   bake. 

Obe, — ^The  chicken  may  be  put  in    whole,   or  in  halves, 
and   the  seasoning  put  inside  with  the  butter. 

Quarter  two  or  three  chickens,  and  simmer 

Friar^e  them    gently    in    three    half   pints    of    water ; 

Chicken,      add  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley,  mace,  pepper. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


19£  ,     INDIAN    DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 

and  salt;  beat  an  egg  for  every  chicken  or  more,  and 
»tir  them  into  the  boiling  broth,  it  must  separate  into 
flakes ;   serve  in  a   deep   dish. 

This  dish  may  be  made  of  veal,    rabbit,   eels   or    other 
fish;  if  for  an  invalid,  only  put  in  the   yolks   of  the  eggs. 

Cut  th9  chicken  in   quarters ;   take  off  the 
Cold  CAicken      skin ;    rub   with  an    egg     beaten    up,    and 
fried.  cover  it   with  grated    bread    seasoned  with 

pepper,  salt,  grated  lemon  peel,  and  chop- 
ped parsley ;  fry  it  in  butter ;  thicken  a  little  brown  gravy 
with  flour  and  butter;  add  a  little  cayenne  and  mush- 
room catsup. 

Put  in  plenty  of  force-meat  or  stuffing,  so 
Capon.  as  to  plump  out  the  fowl ;   when  the  bird  is 

properly  stuffed  and  trussed,  score  the  giz- 
zard ;  dip  it  into  melted  butter ;  let  it  drain,  and  season 
it  with  red  pepper  and  salt ;  put  it  under  one  wing,  and 
the  liver  nicely  washed  under  the  other;  cover  it  with 
buttered  paper,   and  roast  it   a  delicate  brown. 

Take  about  six  ounces  or  more  of  the 
ChicJcen paltie9  white  meat,  and  three  of  ham;  chop  very 
foith  ham.  small ;  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  an  ounce 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  two  table-spoon, 
fuls  of  cream  and  the  same  quantity  of  white  stock,  a  little 
nutmeg,  some  cayenne,  pepper  and  salt,  the  juice  of  half 
a  lime ;  stir  it  over  the  fire  some  time,  taking  care  it  does 
not  burn ;  it  is  then  ready  to  be  put  in  the  patty   past«. 

Take  a  roasted  or  boiled  fowl;  cut  it 
Burdwun  stew,  into  pieces,  and  put  them  into  a  silver 
stewpan ;  put  in  two  ladlefuls  of  soup,  with 
two  dozen  anchovies,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  some  melted 
butter,  some  boiled  or  roasted  onions,  pickled  oysters,  and 
cayenne  pepper;  stir  and  let  it  warm  through,  and  add  a 
little  lemon  juice. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  193 

When  this  is  prepared  on  purpose,  the  fowl  or  chicken 
IS  only  half  roasted  or  boiled;  if  boiled,  the  water  or 
broth  is  used  to  make  it  instead  of  the  soup.  Fish  may 
be  used,   and  essence  of  anchovy  instead  of  the  fish. 

Cut  a  fowl  in  pieces;  shred  an  onion  smalU 

CawUry  and  fry  it  brown  in  butter ;    sprinkle  the  fowl 

Captain.       with  fine  salt   and  curry  powder,  and  fry  it 

brown  ;  then  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint 

of  soup;   stew  it  slowly   down  to  an    half,    and    serve   it 

with  rice. 

Gut  up  two  cold  chickens  as  for  salmi ; 
CapUoiade.  then  pour  over  them  bro^  sauce,  in  which 
let  them  simmer  a  little,  very  gently ;  thicken 
with  flour  and  butter;  add  lemon  juice;  then  have  ready 
sippets  of  bread  fried  in  butter ;  set  these  round  the  dish ; 
put  within  them  the  limbs  of  the  chicken,  and  over  the 
latter  pour  the  sauce. 

Put  into  &yingpan  a  little  clear  ghee; 
Bread  crumbs  throw  in  two  or  three  spoonfals  of  grated 
*  fried.  bread,    and     keep    stirring  them  constantly 

till  of    a  fine  yellow  brown,  and   drain  be- 

fore  the  fire. 

Cut  a  slice  of  bread  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ; 
SSffpets.  divide  with  a  sharp  knife  into  pieces  two  inches 

square ;  shape  them  into  triangles  or  crosses ;  put 
some  ghee,  butter,  or  very  clean  fat  into  a  firyingpan;  when 
it  is  hot,  put  in  the  sippets,  and  fry  them  a  delicate  light 
brown;  take  them  up,  and  drain  them  well,  turning  oc- 
casionally. 

Oi*.— If  these  are  not  delicately  clean  and  dry,  they  are 
uneatable;  they  are  always  a  pretty  garnish,  and  an  im* 
provement  to   most   made  dishes. 

Al 


Digitized  by 


Google 


194  TNDUK    SOHBSnC  BCONOMT 

When  a  goose  is  Tveli  picked,  singed,  and 
Chose,  to  roast,  cleaned^  make  the  stufiSng  with  about  tvo 
ounces  of  onion  and  half  as  much  green 
sage;  chop  them  very  fine^  adding  four  ounces  (about  a 
large  breakfast  cupful)  of  stale  bread  crumbs  and  a  very 
little  pepper  and  salt  (to  this  may  be  added  half  the  liver, 
parboiling  it  first),  the  yolk  of  an  egg  or  two,  and  incor* 
porating  the  whole  well  together :  stuff  the  goose,  do  not 
quite  fill  it,  but  leave  a  little  room  for  the  stuffing  i6  swell ; 
spit  it ;  tie  it  on  the  spit  at  both  ends  to  prevent  it  swing* 
ing  round,  and  to  keep  the  stuffing  from  coming  out.  From 
an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours  will  roast  a  fine  fall-grown 
goose.  Send  up  gravy  and  apple  sauce  with  it. 
ObSf — For  another  stuffing,  see  Ducks. 

When  your  goose  is  cleaned  as  for   roast* 
Boiled  wit k  ing,  rub  it  over  with  two  or  three  handfula 

onion  sauce,     of  salt,   and  let  it  remain  for  twelve  or  four- 
teen  hours ;  then  boil  it  as  you  would  a  fowi, 
and   serve   it   with  onion  sauce. 

Cut  out  the  fillet  or  the  side  of  a  sir- 
Moch  goose*  loin  of  beef ;  let  it  be  done  with  a  sharp 
knife  that  it  may  not  be  ragged;  steep 
it  in  port  wine  and  vinegar ;  cut  it  open,  and  stuff  it 
with  sage  and  onion  basted  with  goose  fat;  and  serve 
with  onion,  gooseberry,  or  apple  sauce.  Let  the  fire  be 
brisk  by  which  it  is  roasted. 

Take  two  ounces  of  leaves  of  green  sage. 
Relish  for  goose      an  ounce  of  fresh  lemon  peel  pared    thin, 
.  or  pork,  same  of    salt,   minced  shallot,   and  half   a 

drachm  of  cayenne  pepper,  ditto  of  citric 
acid ;  steep  it  for  a  fortnight  in  a  pint  of  claret ;  shake  it 
up  well  every  day ;  let  it  stand  a  day  to  settle,  and  de- 
cant the  clear  liquor;  bottle  it,  and  cork  it  close.  A 
table-spoonful  or  more  in  a  quarter  pint  of  gravy  or  melt- 
ed butter. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  OOOUET.  195 

Take  the  bones  out  of  two  geese  and  two 
Toriiiire  fowls;  boil  a  tongue^  and  cut  the  whole  into 
Qoo9epis.  slices  the  size  of  your  finger  with  two  pounds 
of  fat  bacon;  lay  the  slices  of  goose  fiat^ 
and  season  with  a  spoonful  of  chopped  onion,  marjoram^ 
thyme,  mushrooms,  and  parsley;  lay  the  slices  of  tongue 
with  the  fat  bacon  on  these;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  all- 
spice and  mace;  then  lay  the  fowl  fillets  on  top  of  all; 
roll  up  in  the  shape  of  a  goose,  and  tie  it  tight  round 
with  tape.  I'orced  meat  may  be  placed  in  the  cavities,  if 
it  is  required  to  be  very  piquant;  blanch,  put  it  in  a  basin 
with  the  bones  of  the  goose,  and  two  quarts  of  strong  gra- 
▼y,  and  boil  it;  have  ready  a  raised  pie  crust  on  a  dish 
sufficiently  large  to  hold  it,  and  put  in  the  goose  when 
cdd  with  the  gravy  it  was  boiled  in,  which  will  be  a  fine 
jelly ;  removing  the  fat  from  the  surface,  and  laying  it  aside, 
put  the  clearest  of  the  jelly  over  the   top   of  the  pie. 

Clean  well  and  half  stew  two  or  three  sets 
Oiiletpie.  of  goose  giblets;  cut  the  leg  in  two,  the  wing 
and  neck  into  three,  and  the  gizzard  into  four 
pieces ;  preserve  the  liquor,  and  set  the  giblets  by  till  cold ; 
otherwise,  the  heat  of  the  giblets  will  spoil  the  paste  you 
cover  the  pie  with;  then  season  the  whole  with  black 
pepper  and  salt,  and  put  them  into  a  deep  dish;  cover 
it  with  paste;  rub  it  over  with  yolk  of  egg;  ornament 
and  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate  oven. 
In  the  meantime  take  the  liquor  the  giblets  were  stewed 
in;  skim  it  free  from  fat;  put  it  over  a  fire  in  a  clean 
stewpan ;  thicken  it  a  little  with  flour  and  butter,  or 
flour  and  water ;  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  add  a  few  drops  of  browning ;  strain 
it  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  when  you  take  the  pie  from 
the  oven,  pour  some  of  the  gravy  into  it  through  a  funnel, 
you  may  lay  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish  a  moderately  thick 
rump  steak ;  or  if  you  have  any  cold  game  or  poultry,  cut 
it  in  pieces^  and  add  it  to  the    above. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


196  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

And  geese  are   generally    dressed   and  stuffed 

Ducis         with   the  same  materials ;    with   the  wild    ducks 

no  stuflSng  is  used, — lemon  juice,  butter,  pepper 

and  salt,  with  a  little  port  wine  is  their   proper  seasoning. 

Are  dressed  the  same  as  geese  with  regard  to 
Ducklings      stuffing,  but  generally  served   with    green   peas 
and  orange  or  lemon  sauce. 

The  pinions  ought  to   be   cut  off  close  to  the 

Duclks,  to     bodies ;    the   feet    well  blanched  in  hot    water ; 

roMt.       the  nails   cut  and  tucked   over  the  back  ;  reserve 

the  pinions,  head,  neck,  liver,  feet,   and  gizzards 

for  soups  or  ragouts. 

After   having   cleansed   the   giblets    well,    boil 
Gravy  and   all    except    the   liver,    in    a   pint   of   water    for 
stuffing.       an    hour,     with    a    chopped    onion,    some    salt 
and    pepper;    strain     and     add   a    little    brown- 
ing with  a  tea-spoonful  of  coratch    and  mushroom    catsup* 

For  the  stuffing,  mince  the  raw  liver  with  two  sage 
leaves,  a  small  onion,  some  pepper  and  salt,  a  bit  of 
butter  and  grated  bread  crumbs,  or  mash  up  some  boiled 
potatoes,  with  a  little  cream  or  butter ;  add  pepper  and 
salt  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  ;  fill  the  duck  with  this  pre- 
vious to  roasting;  if  you  have  a  pair,  one  stuffed  in  this 
manner,  and  the  other  with  onions  and  sage,  enables  those 
who   dislike   an  onion   to   eat  their   duck   without  it. 

Make  a    paste,  allowing  half  a    pound  of 
To  boil  a  butter  to  a  pound  of  flour  ;    truss  a  duck   as 

Duci.  for  boiling  ;   put  into  the    inside  a  little  pep- 

per and  salt,  one  or  two  sage  leaves  and  a 
little  onion  finely  minced ;  enclose  the  duck  in  the  paste 
with  a  little  jellied  gravy;  boil  it  in  a  cloth  and  serve 
it   with   brown   gravy  poured  round   it. 

06s, — The   duck   may  be    salted  the   night   before  boiling, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  197 

and  when  dressed^   serve  it  with  onion   sauce ;   this  is  also 
an  excellent  way  of  dressiog  a  goose% 

Are  roasted  the  same  way  as  tame,  only 
Ducks  (mid)  without  stuffing,  and  basted  with  butter 
and  lemon  or  orange  juice;  they  do  not 
require  so  long  roasting  as  tame ;  sauce  may  be  made  by 
catting  along  the  breast,  adding  butter,  lime  juice,  a  glass 
of  port  wine,  and  cayenne  pepper. 

Obt. — Some     add    made    mustard  with  mushroom  catsup. 

Cut  one  or  two  ducks  into  quarters ;   fry  them 
Skw.  a  light  brown  in   butter ;   put  them  into  a  stew- 

pan  with  a  pint  of  gravy,  two  glasses  of  port 
wine^  four  whole  cmions,  some  black  pepper  and  salt,  a 
bnnch  of  parsley,  two  sage  leaves,  and  a  sprig  of  sweet 
maijoram;  cover  the  pan  closely,  and  stew  them  till  ten- 
der ;  take  out  the  herbs  and  onions ;  skim  it ;  if  the  same 
be  not  sufficiently  thick,  mix  with  two  table- spoonfuls  of 
it,  a  little  flour,  and  stir  it  into  the  same  pan;  boil  it  up 
and  garnish  with  the   onions. 

Cut  an    onion   or     two  into   small    dice; 
Dressed  ducks,     put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  butter ; 
iasiedm  fry  it,    but  do   not  let  it   get   any   colour  ; 

put  as  much  broth  into  the  stewpan  as  will 
make  sauce  for  the  hash ;  thicken  it  with  a  Uttle  flour ; 
cut  ap  the  duck  ;  put  it  into  the  sauce  to  warm,  do  not 
let    it    boil ;  season   with   pepper,  salt,  and  catsup. 

OS*. — The  legs  of  ducks  or  geese  broiled  and  laid  upon 
apple  or  green  papaw  sauce,  may  be  served  for  luncheon 
or  supper. 

Clean  two   sets  of  giblets  ;  put   them   into 

GiUel  stew.  a    saucepan ;    just     cover     them   with  cold 

water,   and   set   them    on    the    fire ;    when 

they  boil,  take  off  the  scum,  and    put   in   an    onion,    three 

doves    or    two  blades    of  mace,  a  few  berries  of  black    pep- 


Digitized  by 


GooqIc 


193  INDIAN   DOlCESnC  ECONOMT 

per,  the  same  of  allspice,  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt ; 
cover  the  stewpan  close,  and  let  it  simmer  rttj  gently 
till  the  giblets  are  qnite  tender;  this  will  take  from  one 
hour  and  a  half  to  two  and  a  half,  according  to  the  i^ 
of  the  giblets.  The  pinions  will  be  done  first,  and  most 
then  be  taken  out  and  put  in  again  to  warm;  when  the 
gizzards  are  done,  watch  them  that  they  do  not  get  too 
much  done ;  take  them  out,  and  thicken  the  sauce  with 
flour  and  butter;  let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  and  reduce  it 
just  enough  to  eat  with  the  giblets,  then  strain  it  through 
a  tammis  into  a  clean  stewpan ;  cut  the  giblets  into  pieces, 
put  them  into  the  sauce  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
and  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  catsup;  pour  the  whole 
into  a  soup   dish  with  sippets  of  bread  at  the  bottom. 

The  flavour  of  pigeons  is    always   best   pre* 
Pigeons,  to      served  by  roasting.    Pigeons  should  be  dress- 
roasL  ed  while  they    are  very    fresh — ^take    off  the 

heads  and  necks,  and  cut  off  the  toes  at  the 
first  joint;  draw  them  carefully,  and  pour  plenty  of  water 
through  them;  wipe  them  dry,  and  put  into  each  bird  a' 
small  bit  of  butter  lightly  sprinkled  with  cayenne,  or  stuff 
them  with  some  green  parsley  chopped  very  fine,  mixed 
with  a  bit  of  butter,  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill  the 
belly  of  each  bird  with  it  ;  they  will  be  sufficiently  done 
in  twenty  minutes.  Serve  them  with  brown  gravy  or  bread 
sauce,  or  parsley  and  butter. 

Truss  them  like  boiled  fowls  ;  put  them 

Soiled.  into  plenty    of  boiling  water  ;   throw  in   a 

little  salt,  and  in  fifteen  minutes  take  them 

out  ;  pour  parsley  and  butter    over,   and   send  some  of  it 

to  table   with  them   in   a   tureen. 

Take  the   pigeons,  cut  them  into  fillets. 

Pigeon  cut-  and   flatten  them  with  the  back  oi  a  knife  ; 

lets  h  la  ma-     scrape  the  bone   off   the  pinion,  and    stick 

recAale.  it  in   the  end  of     the   cutlet;  dust    them 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY,  199 

t>ver  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  rub  them  over  with  the 
beaten  yolk  of  an  egg ;  dip  them  into  melted  batter,  and 
sprinkle  smoothly  with  crnmbs  of  bread ;  broil  them  o{  a 
nice   colour,  and  serve  with  a  rich  gravy  or    Italian  sance* 

7or  this  entree  you  must  procure  young  pi- 
Slewed  geons  or  squabs;  singe  them  slightly;  melt 
PigeofU.  about  half  a  pound  of  butter,  squeeze  the  juice 
of  a  lemon  into  the  butter,  and  then  let  the 
pigeons  be  fried  lightly  over  the  fire  twice  or  three  times 
only.  Then  put  the  pigeons  into  a  stewpan  trimmed  with 
lajers  of  bacon;  pour  the  melted  butter  and  lemon  juice 
over  them,  and  then  cover  them  well.  It  is  also  requisite 
to  pour  in  a  spoonful  of  rich  gravy  to  prevent  their  fry- 
ing; set  them  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  over  a  gentle 
fire,  and  drain  them ;  dish  them  with  brown  sharp  sauce, 
or  a   sauce   piquante. 

Border  a  dish  with  fine  puff  paste,  and 
Piffeonpie.  cover  the  bottom    with    a   veal  cutlet    or  • 

tender  rump  steak  cut  into  thin  slices; 
season  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  nutmeg  or  pounded  mace; 
put  as  many  young  pigeons  over  them  as  the  dish  will 
contain,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  spices,  the  yolk 
of  a  few  hard  boiled  eggs  within  the  intervals;  put  plen- 
ty of  butter  over  them,  with  a  small  quantity  of  broth 
for  the  gravy;  cover  the  whole  with  plain  paste  or  with 
puff  paste.  Pigeon  pie,  if  to  be  eaten  cold,  requires  more 
seasoning  than  when  to  be  eaten  hot. 

068, — It  is  an    improvement    to  stuff  the    birds   as  for 
roasting,   before  putting  into   the  pie. 

Stuff,  lard,    paper,  and  roast  as  hare  or 
SabMs,  to  fowl ;  baste  it  well,  as  it  is  rather  dry,  and 

roaH,  butter  it  as  it  should  be  of  a  very  light  co- 

lour; do  not  take  off  the  paper  till  there  is 
only  time    to    brown   it    very    lightly;  froth    it  well,   atnd 


Digitized  by 


Google 


200  INDIAN     BOMlSanO    ECONOMY 

aerve  it  with  the  liver  rubbed  down  in  the  gravy  j  if  the 
liver  haa  been  put  into  the  farce,  any  other  seasoning  will 
be  unnecessary ;  it  will  take  from  half  to  three  quarters  of 
an  hour.  Any  of  the  sauces  served  with  fowl,  may  be  serv- 
ed with   it. 

After  it  has  hung  sufficiently,  rub  it  all  over 
As  hare,  with  very  fine  powdered  kitchen  spices ;  sprinkle 
the  inside  with  garlic  vinegar ;  dip  a  cloth  in 
vinegar  with  a  mixture  of  black  currants  or  port  wine; 
wrap  it  round  the  rabbit,  stuffing  the  comers  into  the  belly^ 
and  hang  it  in  the  air  for  a  night;  stuff,  lard,  or  barb^ 
roast,    and  serve  it   as  hare. 

Babbits  that  are  three  parts  grown,  or  at  all 
To  ioil,  events  which  are  still  quite  young,  should  be  chosen 
for  this  mode  of  cooking ;  wash  and  soak  them 
well ;  truss  them  firmly  with  the  heads  turned  and  skewer- 
ed to  the  sides ;  drop  them  into  plenty  of  boiling  water, 
and  simmer  them  gently  from  thirty  to  forty-five  minutes; 
when  very  young,  they  will  require  even  less  time  than 
this;  cover  them  with  rich  white  sauce  mixed  with  the 
livers  parboiled  and  finely  pounded  and  well  seasoned  with 
cayenne  and  lime  juice,  or  with  white  onion  sauce,  or  with 
parsley  and  butter  made  with  milk  or  cream  instead  of 
water  (the  livers  minced  are  often  added  to  the  last  of 
these),  or  with  good  mushroom  sauce. 

Make   a  rich  farce    with   the  meat  of  cold 
Bissoles  of       dressed  rabbits ;  then  spread    some  puff  paste, 
rabbU.  and   cover   it    at  equal    distances  with  lumps 

of  the  force-meat ;  moisten  the  paste  •  all 
round  the  farce,  and  fold  it  in  two;  press  it  round  with 
your  fingers,  and  cut  each  out  with  a  rowel  or  knife; 
and  fry  of  a  nice  brown  colour ;  they  may  be  dipped  into 
the  beaten  yolk  of  eggs  and  crumbed^  but  it  thickens 
the  paste. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  201 

Prepare,    bone,    and   cut    up   two   young 
TimiaUe  of  rabbits ;   daub    them     with   bacon ;    season 

rabbits,  paul'  with  minced  parsley,  shallots,  mushrooms 
try,  or  game,  or  trufBes,  spices,  pepper^  and  salt ;  put 
these  ingredients  in  a  stewpan  with  butter, 
and  harden  the  rabbits  white  in  it;  moisten  with  a  glass 
of  white  wine  and  two  large  spoonfuls  of  .espagnole  or 
good  stock,  and  let  them  simmer  till  enough  done  ;  set 
them  to  cool  ;  butter  a  mould  of  suiScient  size,  and  line 
it  with  rolled  paste,  beginning  at  the  middle  of  the  bot- 
tom, and  continuing  to  go  round  till  it  comes  to  the  top  ; 
the  rolls  of  paste  must  lie  firm  over  each  other.  Have 
ready  a  piece  of  thin  paste  to  lay  in  the  bottom  ;  make 
it  an  inch  larger  that  it  may  come  up  to  the  sides ; 
wash  over  this  paste  with  yolk  of  egg,  and  put  it  in ; 
press  it  well  down  to  make  it  firm,  and  have  ready  a  suf- 
ficient quantity  of  small  force-balls;  dress  them  round  and 
round  the  sides  till  they  nearly  reach  the  top ;  put  in 
the  rabbits  with  the  seasoning,  and  cover  it,  wetting  and 
fixing  it  firmly  ;  dress  it  round  the  edge  ;  give  it  an  hour 
and  a  half ;  it  must  be  a  fine  colour  for  the  paste.  When 
ready  to  dish,  cut  it  nearly  open  at  the  top,  and  put  in 
a  nice  sauce  of  reduced  espagnole,  or  jover  it  with  a 
sweetbread  or  mushroom  ragout. 

Gut  the  rabbits  in    proper    pieces,    and 

To  smother  stew  them   gently   in  a  braise,  or   white  in 

Rabbits  iti       *  batter — the     most    caieful  boiling   hardens 

onions  or  them.     Have     ready    a    rich    onion     sauce 

otier  vegS"        made  with   cream  or  stock — ^it  may  also   be 

tables,  dressed    in    a     ragout   of  celery,   artichoke 

bottoms,    scorzonera,    Jerusalem    artichokes, 

peas,  French  beans,  &c. 

GAME. 

These    birds   are     found  in    great   abun- 
Bustard.  dance  on  most   of  the  plains  in  this  coun- 

try,   more    especially    the   western    side    of 

b1 


Digitized  by 


Google 


iOt  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

India.  The  male  bird  weighs  from  2,0  to  30  pounds^  and 
when  taken  by  the  Shikarees,  is  often  sold  for  as  low  a 
sum  as  one  rupee.  The  bird  is  to  be  cleaned  and  trass^ 
ed  as  a  turkey^  and  roasted  precisely  in  the  same  way, 
accompanied  with  bread  sauce ;  the  meat  from  the  breast, 
.  if  not  overdone,  may  be  converted  into  an  excellent  salmi 
or  Burdwan  stew  ;  like  the  pea  fowl  it  will  furnish  deli- 
cious scollops  or  cutlets,  and  also  soup  ;  perhaps  the  latter 
methods  are  the  best"  for  dressing  the  flesh  of  so  large 
a  bird. 

Gut  off  the  best  parts  of   the  brown   and 
A   Salmi  of        white   into   slices,  sprinkle  them  over  lightly 
Bustard,  with   arrowroot   or  flower   and  lay   them  in 

a  stewpan,  then  put  the  remaining  trim- 
mings with  the  bones  broken,  a  couple  of  onions  cut  in 
half  stuck  with  a  dozen  cloves,  some  parsley,  two  or 
three  peach  leaves  and  a  few  pepper  corns  into  another 
stewpan  and  cover  the  whole  with  water,  let  it  boil  well 
for  half  an  hour  and  strain  off  the  gravy,  put  it  into  a 
stewpan  again,  add  a  large  glass  of  claret  or  white  wine 
and  reduce  the  gravy  to  the  quantity  required,  then  add 
the  slices  of  the  bird,  colour  with  a  little  browning  and 
give  it  a  boil  tfp,  when  serve  with    sippets  of  toasted  bread. 

06s. — The  meat  remaining,  if  picked  free  from  all 
sinews,  may  be  potted  as  directed  for  other  meats.  Turkey 
or  any  other  cold  poultry  may  be  dressed  in  the  same 
manner,  only,  if  wished  to  be  white,  omit  the  browning 
and  stir  in  the  yolk  of  a  beaten  egg  with  a  little  cream 
at  the   last ;    it   must   not   boil. 

Cut   the  breast  into  fillets,    and  put  into 
Scollops.  a  stew   or   fryingpan,   with  a    little  melted 

butter  and  some  truffles  cut  thin  into 
shapes,  or  else  mushrooms  ;  put  the  stewpan  on  the  fire, 
and  do  the  fillets  on  both  sides  ;  remove  the  scollops  with 
the  other  articles  from  the  melted  butter,  and  cover  them 
with   a   nice   white   sauce   or  bechamel,  flavoured    with   the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKKEY.  BOS 

essence  of  the  game,   &c.^    or   serve  them    in   a  border   of 
finely  mashed   potatoes. 

Like  a  sucking  pig,  should  be  dressed  almost  as 
Fawns,  soon  as'  killed ;  when  very  young,  is  trussed,  stuff* 
ed,  and  spitted  the  same  way  as  a  bare;  but  they 
are  better  eating  when  of  a  larger  size,  and  are  then  roast- 
ed in  quarters :  the  hind  quarter  is  most  esteemed.  They 
must  be  put  down  to  a  very  quick  fire,  and  either  basted 
all  I  the  time  they  are  roasting,  or  be  covered  with  sheets 
of  fat  bacon ;  wlien  done,  baste  it  with  butt«r,  and  dredge 
it  with  a  little  salt  and  iiour  till  you  make  a  nice  froth  on 
it.  Send  up  venison  sauce  with  it;  or  bread  sauce,  with 
wine  and  currants,  may   be   served. 

06s, — The  proper  sauces  now  in  use  are  currant  jelly  and 
port  wine,   sugar,   syrup,    and  claret. 

Skin  and  prepare  it ;  wipe  it  well  without  wash- 
Hare,to  ing;  slit  it  a  little  under  the  jaws  to  let  out  the 
roast.  blood,  and  stuff  it  with  savoury  or  sweet  stuffing, 
or  with  a  gratin ;  sew  it  up,  and  lard  or  barb  and 
paper  it;  put  into  the  dripping-pan  half  a  pint  of  ale,  a 
gill  of  vinegar,  a  clove  of  garlic,  pepper,  and  salt;  baste 
continually  without  stopping  till  it  is  all  dried  up,  or  use 
a  pint  of  good  cream  or  a  quart  of  fresh  milk;  baste  it 
with  it  tul  ready,  and  finish  frothing  it  with  butter  and 
flour;    serve   as  above. 

Obs, — Hare  cut  into  fillets  and  dressed  as  a  cutlet  will 
be  found  preferable  to  the  common  mode  of  roasting,  es- 
pecially  if  served  with   a  piquant  sauce. 

Wash  it  very  nicely ;  cut  it  up  into  pieces 
Hare,  jugged.  proper  to  help  at  table,  and  put  them  in- 
to a  jugging  pot,  or  into  a  stone  jar  just 
sufficiently  large  to  hold  it;  put  in  some  sweet  herbs,  a 
roll  or  two  of  rind  of  a  lime  or  a  Seville  orange  and  a 
fine  large  onion,  with   some  rloves  stuck  in  it ;    and  if  you 


Digitized  by 


Google 


204  INDIAN     BOMESTIC     BCOKOMT 

wish  to  preserve  the  flavour  of  the  hare,  a  quarter  pint 
of  water ;  if  for  a  ragout,  a  quarter  pint  of  claret  or  port 
wine  and  the  juice  of  a  Seville  orange  or  lime  ; — tie  the 
jar  down  closely  with  a  bladder,  so  that  no  steam  can  es- 
cape ;  put  a  little  hay  at  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan,  ia 
which  place  the  jar,  and  pour  in  water  till  it  reaches  with- 
in four  inches  of  the  top  of  the  jar  ;  let  the  water  boil  for 
about  three  hours,  according  to  the  age  and  size  of  the 
hare ;  (take  care  it  is  not  overdone,  which  is  the  general 
fault  in  all  made  dishes,  especially  this,)  keeping  it  boil- 
ing all  the  time,  and  fill  up  the  pot  as  it  boils  away.  When 
quite  tender,  strain  pff  the  gravy,  clear  from  fat,  thicken 
it  with  flour,  and  give  it  a  boil  up ;  lay  the  hare  in  a 
soup  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  to  it ;  make  a  stuffing  the 
same  as  for  roast  hare,  m\A  boil  it  in  a  cloth,  and  when 
you  dish  up  your  hare,  cut  it  in  slices,  or  make  force- 
meat balls  of  it   for  garnish. 

Or  prepare  the  hare  the  same  as  for  jugging ;  put  it 
into  a  stewpan  with  a  few  sweet  herbs,  half  a  dozen  cloves, 
the  same  of  allspice  and  black  pepper,  two  large  onions 
and  a  roll  of  lemon  or  lime  peel ;  cover  it  with  water  ; 
when  it  boils  skim  it  clear,  and  let  it  simmer  gently^  till 
tender  (about  two  hours)  ;  then  take  it  up  with  a  slice  ; 
set  it  by  the  fire  to  keep  hot  while  you  thicken  the  gravy ; 
take  three  ounces  of  butter  and  some  flour  ;  rub  together  ; 
put  in  the  gravy  ;  stir  it  well,  and  let  it  boil  about  ten 
minutes  ;  strain  it  through  a  sieve  over  the  hare,  and  it 
is  ready. 

If  you   have    enough    o^  its    own   gravy 
Hashed   Vent-    left,    it  is  preferable  to  any   to  warm  it  up 
8on.  in  ;   if  not,  take  some  mutton  gravy  or  the 

bones  and  trimmings  of  the  joint  (after 
you  have  cut  off  all  the  handsome  slices  you  can  make 
the  hash)  ;  put  these  into  some  water,  and  stew  them 
gently  for  an  hpur  ;  then  put  some  butteV  into  a  stewpan ; 
when  melted,   put  to  it  as  much  flour   as   will   dry  up  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKEEY.  806 

butter,  and  stir  it  well  together ;  add  to  it  by  degrees 
the  gravy  you  have  been  making  of  the  trimmings,  and 
some  red  currant  jelly  ;  give  it  a  boil  up,  skim  it,  strain 
it  through  a  sieve,  and  it  is  ready  to  receive  the  venison 
— pat  it  in,  and  let  it  just  get  warm ;  if  you  let  it  boil  it 
will  make  the  meat    hard. 

May  be    roasted  in  lard  or  ghee,    dressed 
Ortolans  with   bread   crumbs;  their  legs  must  be  truss- 

ed up  the  same  as  quail.  Serve,  when  roast- 
ed,  in  fried  crumbs  mixed  with  savoury  powder,  such  as 
traffic,   oyster,    mushroom,   or  anchovy. 

04*. — ^Bread   to   be  made  into    crumbs  for  serving  with 

small   birds,   should   be  first  soaked  in  lime  juice  and  port 

wine ;  acidulated  currant  jelly  or  vinegar  and  sugar  for  gar- 
nishing game.                                                   * 

Both  black  and  grey,  are  best  boiled;  the 
Partridges,  former  are  in  season  from  October  until  May, 
the  latter  from  September  to  February.  Glean 
the  birds  and  truss  them  as  a  chicken;  have  ready  a 
large  vessel  of  boiling  water,  into  which  place  the  birds, 
keeping  the  water  at  a  boil;  they  will  be  done  in  ten  or 
twelve   minutes. 

They  are  also  very  good  stewed  with  some  butter  and 
a  small  quantity  of  water;  place  them  in  a  stewpan  or 
conjurer  over  a  brisk  fire,  look  to  them  occasionally  and 
constantly  turn,  to  prevent  their  being  burnt  on  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pan,  and  as  soon  as  the  gravy  begins  to  ooze 
from  the  birds  and  mixes  with  the  butter^  they  are  done 
enough.    Serve  with  bread  sauce. 

Obs. — Quail,  snipe,  rock  or  green  pigeon,  may  be  dressed 
in  the  same  manner,  only  the  two  latter  should  first  be 
skinned  and  dressed  in  vine  ^leaves.  * 

Clean  jour  birds  nicely,  and  take    care  not 

Partridges,    to   injure  the  skins;   pick    them   well;   cut   off 

to  roast,     the   sinews    that    are   under    the  joints   of  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


806  INDIAN  OOHESTIG    ECONOMY 

legs  up  towards  the  breast,  and  give  a  good  shape  to  the 
birds.  They  require  a  good  deal  of  roasting.  Send  up 
with   them  rice   or  bread   sauce,    and  good   gravy. 

Cut  off  the  claws  after  having  emptied  and 
A  la  Cra-  picked  the  birds ;  make  a  hole  below  the 
pandine.  joint  of  the  leg;  truss  the  leg  inside  of  the 
body;  singe  the  birds  over  the  flame  till  the 
flesli  gets  firm;  pinch  the  breast  with  your  left  hand; 
scollop '  the  breast  without  quite  reaching  the  skin ;  turn 
the  flesh  over  on  the  table;  beat  the  bird  flat;  dust  it 
with  a  little  salt  and  pepper ;  then  dip  it  twice  into  cla- 
rified butter  and  crumbs  of  bread;  broil  it,  and  send  it 
up  with  an  Italian  sauce  or  essence  of  gamCj  or  it  may  be 
broiled  without   bread  crumbs. 

Are  roasted  as  fowls  and  served  with  bread 
Peafowl  sauce.     The   breast,  when  cut  into  slices,  may 

be  made  into  cutlets,  and  dressed  the  same  as 
veal  or  fillets  of  pheasants* 

Are  all  larded  and  stuffed,  and  dressed,  in 
PheasanU  the  same  manner  as  guinea  fowl.  As  a  know- 
ledge of  the  age  of  these  birds  is  of  conse- 
quence to  the  cook,  therefore  the  wing  ought  to  be  looked 
at,  and  if  the  point  feathers  are  gone,  it  is  old,  and 
ought  to  be  dressed  in  some  other  way,  or  braised  before 
roasting.  Hang  these  birds  by  the  tail  feathers,  and 
when  they  drop,  they  are  fit  for  use :  a  basket  of  bran  or 
straw  ought  to  be  placed  beneath,  as  the  fall  from  a 
height   would  bruise  the  bird. 

Requires  a  smart  fire,  but  not  a  fierce  one  : 
To  roa%tj  thirty  minutes  will  roast  a  young  bird,  and 
forty  or  fifty  a  full  grown  pheasant.  Pick  and 
draw  it;  cut  a  slit  in  the  back  of  the  neck,  and  take 
out'  the  craw,  but  do  not  cut  the  head  off:  wipe  tlie 
inside    of    the  bird    with  a  clean   cloth;    twist    the    legs 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  207 

looBe  to  the  body ;  leave  the  feet  on^  but  cut  the  toes 
off;  do  not  turn  the  head  under  the  wing,  but  truss  it 
like   a  fowl. 

Cut  off  the  fillets;  beat  them  lightly  with 
Pheoiants*  the  handle  of  a  knife;  (pare  them^  melt  some 
JilleU.  butter  in  a  stewpan,  dip  in  the  fillets;)  then 
flatten  and  trim  of  a  good  shape ;  dip  them  in 
egg  beat  up  with  a  little  salt,  and  then  in  fine  bread 
crumbs;  fry  them  a  light  brown  in  boiling  lard;  serve 
under  them   some   good   gravy   or   mushroom   sauce. 

The  green,  grey  and  golden  plovers — these 
Plovers.  birds  are  roasted  without  being  drawn,  and 
are  treated  in  all  respects  like  roasted  wood- 
cocks, toast  being  placed  to  receive  the  trails  and  the 
roasted  plovers  being  served  up  with  no  other  sauce  than 
melted    butter. 

8nip€y  Are   dressed   like  woodcock  in  every  respect. 

Put  a  small   spoonful  of  fresh  ghee,  or  but- 
Snipe  h  la        ter/  for  each   bird^  into  a  degchee  or  stew- 
minute.  pan   with   some  chopped   onions,   parsley,  nut- 

meg, salt  and  pepper ;  place  the  birds  after 
being  properly  trussed  breast  downwards,  and  set  the  pan 
over  a  brisk  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  stirring  occasionally 
to  prevent  their  sticking  and  burning,  then  add  for  each 
half  dozen  birds  the  juice  of  two  limes,  two'  glasses  of 
white  wine,  and  a  table-spoonfal  of  grated  crumbs  of  bread, 
simmer  the  whole   for  a  minute   longer,   dress  the   birds   on 

a   dish,   and   serve    the   sauce  poured    over. 

« 

Florican,  Are   roasted   like  pheasants,   and  served   with 

the  same  sauce.     Spurfowl  the   same. 

Clean    and   prepare    them  with    their  legs 

Qnaih,  to        Well    drawn    up,    and   their    claws  only    just 

roast.  seen;   cover  them  with  or  without  bacon,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


208  INDIAN    DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 

I 

wrap  them  in  vine    leaves;   roast  them    nicely,    and  serve 
with   bread  sauce   or  good   gravj. 

OA*.— The  rain  and   grey  quail   are  the  finest;   the   bush 
are  thought  little  of. 

'  Crumbs    of   bread,  chopped   parsley,   grated 

Stvffiiig  for     lemon   peel,    butter,    pepper,   and   salt,   with  a 

guaiL  very   little   clear  marrow  or  suet  chopped  fine; 

put  a    small   slice    of   bacon    in  the   inside  of 

each  bird,  and  then  roast  them. 

Prepare  any  number  of  quails;  open  them 
Quail  pie.  at  the  back ;  take  out  the  intestines,  and 
pick  them  with  care  from  the  gall,  liver, 
and  gizzard ;  make  a  farce  of  them ;  bruise  the  bones 
of  the  birds  and  farce  them;  raise  the  pie;  cover  the  bot- 
tom with  farce;  lay  in  the  quails  and  fill  up  with  farce; 
mix  some  butter  with  fine  spices  and  salt;  spread  it  over 
and  finish  the  pie.  Each  bird  may  be  wrapped  in  a  bit 
of  bacon  and  truffle,  or  mushrooms  may  be  intermixed  in 
the  grating. 

Make  a  rich    and    very    light    puff  paste; 
Puff9  of  let   the  birds,    after  being    cleaned  and  drawn, 

quails^  Sfc,  .  be  trussed  and  browned  in  a  stewpan ;  then 
into  the  body  of  each  put  a  small  lump  of 
fresh  butter  or  bacon  fat;  fill  up  the  inside  with  a  light 
stuffing  and  a  little  cream ;  wrap  each  bird  so  prepared 
in  fat  bacon :  then  cover  it  with  paste  rolled  out  to  a 
convenient  thickness,  but  not  too  thick ;  give  it  any  form 
you  please;  lay  the  puffs  separately  on  tins,  and  bake  un- 
til the"  paste  is  done ;  in  '  a  quick  oven  in  ten  minutes 
they   will   be   ready. 

Draw  and    clean   your    teal  as    for   roasting, 
Teal.  set    aside   the    livers,    prepare  a  stuffing    with 

crumbs  of  bread,  chopped  parsley,  lime  juice, 
pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg;  chop  up  the  livers  very  fine 
and  mix ;  moisten  the  whole  well  with  butter  and  put  a 
portion  into   each   bird,  roast,  them  before  a  sharp   fire,  or 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERT.  t09 

in  a  degchee,  with  or  without  some  thin  slices  of  bacon 
tied  in  paper  over  the  1>ird8,  when  dressed  remove  the 
paper,  brown  the  bacon^  place  it  upon  a  toast^  and  dress 
the  birds  upon  it. 

Is    dressed    exactly     as    wild    duck;    its 
Wildffoose  nicety    consists    in    being    browned    outside 

without  being  soddened  within^  well  froth- 
ed and  full  of  gravy. 

Are   never   opened.    Take    the   skins    off 
Woodcocks  their  heads,   truss  up  their  legs,  and   skew- 

er with  their  bills;  fix  a  skewer  between 
their  legs,  and  tie  them  by  it  to  the  spit;  put  them  to 
roast  at  a  clear  fire;  cut  as  many  slices  of  bread  as  you 
have  birds;  trim  them  to  a  proper  size,  and  toast  or  fry 
them  a  delicate  brown;  lay  them  in  the  dripping  pan 
before  they  are  basted  to  receive  the  drippings;  baste  them 
with  battel^  and  froth  them  with  fiour ;  lay  the  birds, 
when  ready,  on  the  toast,  and  put  some  good  beef  gravy 
into  the  dish;  garnish  with   slices   of  lime. 

Hem  venison  is  not  held  in  the  same  esti- 
AfUelope.  mation  as  either  the  spotted  deer>  or  even  the 
smaller  kind  called  the  B&kar,  (which  has  only 
a  single  tine  to  its  horn ;)  the  flesh  of  the  hem  is  devoid  of 
fat,  and  requires,  when  dressed,  that  it  should  be  covered 
with  the  caul  from  a  fat  sheep,  roasted  precisely  in  the 
same  way  as  other  venison,  and  served  with  a  similar 
sauce.  Some  prefer  boiling  the  meat  in  a  paste,  as  it 
preserves  the  flavour ;  it  also  makes  excellent  soup ;  and 
cutlets  may  be  prepared  in  the  various  ways  as  directed 
for  mutton.  The  leg,  if  cut  into  a  fillet,  like  veal,  and 
salted,  will  be  highly  relished  both  hot  and  cold,  and  may 
easily   be  converted  into    potted   venison  in  a  few  minutes. 

When  to  be    roasted,  wash  it    well    in  luke- 
VenUon.      warm  water,    and  dry  it    with    a    cloth ;    cover 

the    haunch    with    buttered    paper  when    spitted 

cl 


Digitized  by 


Google 


tlO  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

for  roasting^  and  baste  it  very  well  all  the  time  it  is  at 
the  fire;  when  sufficientlj  done,  take  off  the  paperj  and 
dredge  it  r^  gently  with  flour  in  order  to  froth  it, 
bat  let  it  be  dusted  in  this  manner  as  quickly  as  possible 
lest  the  fat  should  melt;  send  it  up  in  the  dish  with 
nothing  but  its  own  gravy ;  or^  dress  it  with  a  coarse  paste, 
secunng  it  and  the  paper  with  twine;  it  is  then  frequently 
basted,  and  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  it  is  removed 
from  the  fire,  the  paper  and  paste  are  taken  off,  and  the 
meat  dressed  with  floor  and  basted  with  butter ;  gravy 
should  accompany  the  venison  in  a  tureen,  together  witti 
currant  jelly,  either  sent  to  table  cold  or  melted  in  port 
wine,   and  serve   hot. 

To   a  quarter    of   a    peck  of   fine    flour 
Cnut  for  use  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  butter   and 

Venison  pasty,  four    eggs;    mix    into    paste    with    warm 
water,  and  work  it  smooth  and  to  a  good 
consistence;    put    a    paste    round    the   inside,    and    not    to 
the  bottom   of  the  dish,  and  let  the  cover  be  pretty  thick, 
to   bear  the  long  continuance  in  the  oven. 

A  shoulder,  boned,  makes  a  good  pasty,  but  it 
Venison  must  be  beaten  and  seasoned,  and  the  fat  sup- 
pctsty.  plied  by  that  of  a  fine  loin  of  mutton  steeped 
twenty-four  hours  in  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and 
port.  Cut  and  marinade  any  part  of  the  neck,  Inreast,  or 
shoulder,  the  meat  must  be  chopped  in  pieces  and  laid 
with  fat  between,  thd;  it  may  be  equally  proportioned; 
lay  some  pepper,  allspice  and  salt  at  the  bottom  of  the 
dish,  with  some  butter;  then  place  the  meat  nicely  that 
it  may  be  sufficiently  done. 

Put  into  the  dripping   pan  equal  quantities 

Marinade  for   of  claret  and     water,  red  wine,  or  a  mixture 

wildfowl,     of  vinegar   and    water,    with   a  clove  or  two 

of  bruised  garlic,  a  little  powder   or  juice  of 

sage,   nutmeg,  salt,   and  pepper;  baste  with  it,  and  after- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  811 

wards  with  butter.  When  ready  to  serve,  take  up  the 
marinade  and  work  it  well ;  if  not  enough,  add  stock  and 
wine,   and  season   higher  if  it  requires  it. 

Take     a    pound     of    any     under-roasted 
Salmi  qfgamef    meat^    hare,  turkey,   game,  goose,   or  duck, 
meai^  Sfc.  and   cut  it  up   into    convenient   pieces ;   put 

them  iuto  a  saucepan;  bruise  the  livers, 
and  should  it  be  snipe  or  woodcock,  bruise  the  trail; 
squeeze  over  them  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  the  rasped 
zest  of  one  or  two  bitter  oranges;  season  with  salt  and 
the  finest  spices  in  powder,  cayenne  and  mustard  prepar- 
ed with  flavoured  vinegar,  and  a  little  white  wine  or 
claret;  put  the  saucepan  over  a  lamp  or  fire,  and  stir  it 
constancy  that  it  may  all  be  incorporated  with  the  sauce. 
It  must  not  boil,  and  should  it  attempt  it,  a  stream  of 
fine  oil  must  be  poured  over  to  prevent  it ;  diminish  the 
flame  or  keep  it  a  little  higher,  and  stir  it  two  or  three 
times;  it  is  then  ready  to  be  served,  and  must  be  eaten 
▼ery   hot. 

Half  roast  it;  then  stew  it  whole,  or 
Ba§fimt efpiml'  divide  it  into  proper  sized  joints;  put  it 
trjfy  game^  SfC.  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  or  more  of 
good  consomm^^  or  take  all  the  trimmings 
and  parings  with  as  much  water,  one  large  onion  stuck 
with  doves,  and  a  few  allspice,  some  black  pepper,  and 
a  roll  of  lime  peel  cut  thin ;  skim  it  very  carefully  while 
boiling,  and  let  it  simmer  for  an  hour  or  more;  then 
strain  off  the  gravy  (put  the  meat  on  one  side  to  keep 
warm),  and  remove  the  fat ;  put  a  couple  of  spoonfuls  of 
butter  into  the  stewpan,  and  when  melted,  stir  in  as 
much  arrowroot  or  flour  as  will  make  it  into  a  thick 
paste;  then  by  degrees  add  the  Uquor,  and  let  it  boil 
up ;  put  in  a  glass  of  port  wine  or  claret,  a  table-spoon- 
fid  of  mosfarbom  catsup,  a  little  lime  juice,  and  simmer 
for  ten  minutes ;  strain,  and  pour  over  the  meat ;  garnish 
with   fried  sippets  of  bread. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTER  XI. 


VEGETABLES. 

TO   PREPARE   AND  DRESS   IN  DIFFEREKT  WAYS. 

Soak  them  in  cold  water ;  wash  them  well ; 
Artichokes,  then  put  them  into  plenty  of  boiling  water  with 
some^  salt ;  let  them  boil  gently  until  they  are 
tender.  The  way  to  know  when  they  are  done  enough^  is 
to  draw  oat  a  leaf ;  trim  them  and  drain  them  and  serve 
in  a  na.pkin;  send  up  with  them  melted  butter. 

Strip   off  the  leaves  after  they  are  boiled,   and 
Bottoms,    remove  the    choke ;  mix  into    some    melted  but- 
ter as  much  espagnole  as  will  sauce  the  dish,  or 
melted   butter  with  a  little    glaze;   rub   this  up  well,  and 
put  in  the  bottoms  long  enough  to   imbibe   a  flavour. 

Cut  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat 
Blanc  08  well  as    bacon  and  a  little  beef  suet  into  dice;  take 
otker  Vegeta-^      a  large    spoonful  of    fresh  butter,  a  little 
iles.  salt,  and  a    lime  cut    in  thin  slices,    and 

put  the  whole  into  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
water  to  cover  whatever  you  wish  to  put  into  your  blanc. 
Let  this  slew  for  half  an  hour  before  you  put  in  your  ar- 
tichoke bottoms ;  stew  them  a  short  time  in  the  blanc,  and 
serve  up  with  whatever  sauce  you  please;  they  serve  also 
to  garnish  fricassees  of  fowls,   ragouts,  white  or  brown. 

When    cold  are  served  for  entremets.    Pour 

bottoms  en      on  the  eentre  of  each  artichoke  bottom,  some 

Canapes,        anchovy,  butter,   and  decorate  the  whole  with 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY    AND    COOKERY.  2  IS 

capers^   pickled   encumbers,   beet-root,   &Cv    and  pour   over 
them  a    salad  sauce;   garnish   with   cresses  between. 

Take   your    artichokes  that    are  very  tender; 
Fried.  cut   them    into    quarters;  pare   them  nicely,  and 

rub  them  over  with  some  lime  or  lemon ; 
that  they  may  preserve  their  white  colour;  when  they 
have  been  well  trimmed  of  nearly  all  their  leaves,  wash- 
ed and  drained  so  that  they  are  quite  dry,  put  them  into 
a  dish  with  some  pepper,  salt,  and  the  juice  of  a  lime. 
Next  take  four  spoonfuls  of  flour,  three  eggs,  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  olive  oil,  and  beat  well  up  together ;  then  put  in 
your  artichokes,  and  stir  them  up  with  a  wooden  spoon 
until  the  leaves  are  well  covered;  then  have  some  drip- 
ping or  ghee,  which  must  not  be  too  hot,  so  that  the 
artichokes  may  be  gradually  done  through  of  a  fine  co- 
lour. Throw  the  artichokes  in  piece  after  piece,  and  take 
care  that  they  do '  not  stick  together ;  when  they  are  done 
and  erisp,  lay  them  on  a  lowel  to  drain,  and  serve  with 
fine  crisp  green  parsley. 

Oft*. — Artichokes  are  only  fit  to  be  eaten  when  young 
and  tender,  and  this  may  be  ascertained  by  the  stalks 
breaking  without   being    thready. 

Boil  the  artichokes  with  a  little  salt. 
Bottoms,  to  dry  the  same  as  for  eating ;  when  you  can 
and  preserve,  separate  or  puD  off  the  leaves,  they  are 
done  sufficiently;  take  them  off  the  fire, 
and  let  them  cool  on  a  dish;  remove  the  leaves  and 
choke ;  dry  the  bottoms  either  in  an  oven  or  in  the  sun ; 
put  them  in  bags  or  string  them,  and  keep  in  a  dry  place ; 
when  to  be  dressed,  they  must  be  laid  in  warm  water  for 
a  couple  of  hours ;  they  may  then  be  dressed  in  any  way 
you  please. 

Ohs. — They  are  a  great  improvement  to  all  made  dishes 
and  meat  pies. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


2H  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECOXOMT 

Jemsalem  May   be  boiled  and  dressed  in  the  various 

Artichokes       ways     directed    for    potatoes ;     they     should 
be  covered  ^ith    thick  melted    butter,  or  a 
while  or  brown   sauce. 

Obs. — ^They  are  excellent  roasted — ^put  in  a  napkin  and 
serve  with  melted  butter.  They  take  very  little  stowing 
or  boiling. 

Cut  one  or  two  onions  in  half  rings^ 
Another  way.  and  brown  them  highly' in  oil  or  ghee; 
slice  the  artichokes  and  put  them  in  with 
minced  parsley,  scallions,  salt  and  pepper;  give  them  two 
or  three  turns,  dish,  put  a  little  vinegar  in  the  pan,  boil 
it  up,   and  pour  it    over. 


Must  be  boiled  in  salt  and  water;  the 
Asparagus  water  in  which  they  are  boiled  is  sdways 
nauseous,  and  of  a  bitter  taste,  and  for  this 
reason  they  are  never  added  in  soups  or  garnish,  but  at 
the  very  last  moment  before  serving  up.  To  preserve  their 
green  colour  they  should  be  boiled  quickly,  and  served 
in  bundles,  and  drained  from  all  the  water  before  placing 
on  the  dish, — a  toast  of  bread,  sometimes  buttered^  is 
placed  under  the  heads  to  raise  them  on  the  dish — smelt- 
ed butter  should  be  served  up  with  them  in  a  boat,  or 
may  be  poured  over  the  tops. 

Break    off    the    tops    of  green    asparagus, 
Purie  cP  boil  them  till  tender  in  salt  and  water^  then 

Asferges.  drain  on  a  towel ;  put  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
butter  in  a  stewpan  with  half  a  pint  of  the 
tops,  stir  them  weU  over  a  moderate  fire,  with  a  sprig  of 
green  parsley;  mash  the  asparagus,  add  some  white  sauce, 
a  little  arrowroot,  salt  and  sugar;  let  it  boil  a  few  mi- 
nutes, rub  it  through  a  tammis,  put  it  into  a  fresh  stew- 
pan  and  warm  it  with  a  little  cream. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  OOOKJSKY.  2lb 

Cut    the  green   tops   off  as    much  aspara- 

Poiniea  df  Ae-  gas    as    you    require,    half    an     inch     long, 

perffeaenpe^  throw   them    into  a  stewpan  of  boiling  hot 

tits-pins.        water     with    some    salt ;  boil    until     tender, 

then  lay  them   on  a  towel  or  sieve  to  drain, 

put  them  into  a   stewpan,    and    to  each    table-spoonful    of 

heads  add  one  of  bechamel  sauce,  a   little  sugar    and  salt, 

with   a  tea-spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  let  it     simmer  for 

a  few  minutes,  add  a  little  butter  rolled  in  arrowroot,  shake 

it  well  and  serve. 

Boil  the  asparagus  ;  chop  small  the  heads 
Peas,  and   tender   parts  of  the  stalks,  together  with 

a  boiled  onion ;  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper 
and  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  ;  heat  it  up,  serve  on  sip- 
pets of  toasted  bread,  and  pour  over  it  a  little  melted 
butter. 

After  being  properly  washed,  care  should  be 
Beet  root.  taken  that  the  rind  is  not  cut  or  the  end 
fibres  broken  off,  as  it  loses  its  colour  in  boil* 
ing.  The  leaves  should  be  cut  an  inch  above  the  crown 
or  top,  and  to  be  wholesome  it  must  be  thoroughly 
cooked.  It  may  be  bofled,  cut  into  slices^  and  dressed 
with  vinegar  and  sugar,  and  sliced  onions,  if  approved  of, 
mixed  with  it;   or  baked,  stewed   or  made  into  soup. 

Take  a  large  beet,  red  or  white,  or  two  or 
To  stew,  three  small  ones,  and  boil  or  bake  until 
tender ;  rub  off  the  skin,  and  mash  the  root 
into  a  fine  pulp ;  if  white,  dress  it  in  consomm^  or 
cream  ;  if  red,  in  half  a  pint  of  rich  gravy ;  then  add, 
previous  to  serving,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar  with 
a  dessert-spoonful  of  pounded  sugar. 

Mix  a  dessert'Spoonful   of    butter    with    a 

AnoiAer  way.    little  arrowroot  or    flour  ;  melt  it  in  half  a 

pint  of  oonsomm^  ;    clean   your    beet  nicely, 

and   scrape  off  the  rind;    cut   it    into    slices,     and  ]put  it 


Digitized  by 


Google 


S16  INDIAN    D0MB8TIC  ECONOMY 

into  the  stewpan  with  your  gravy  and  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  pepper  and  salt;  cover  the  pan  down,  and  stew  it 
gently  until  done;  lastly,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  vinegar 
with  a  little  sugar. 

Obs. — When  beet-root  is  to  be  sent  to  table  in  slices^ 
and  dressed  with  vinegar,  never  sprinkle  pepper  over  it, 
as  it  gives  it  a  dirty  appearance. 

Wash  and  pick  them  clean  ;  boil  them  in  salt 
BrocolL  and  water,  and  let  them  cool ;  when  cold,  dredge 
them  lightly  with  flour,  and  fry  them  in  dear 
ghee  or  butter,  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them,  or 
they  may  be  cut  up  small  after  being  boiled  and  cold, 
and  dressed  with  salad   sauce. 

Clean  your  brocoU  thoroughly,  removing 
Brocoli  and  all  the  leaves  and  tough  skin  from  the 
Buttered  Egg9.  ^tsSk  I  c\A  it  into  quarters  if  small,  or 
into  such  pieces  as  will  be  sufficient  to 
dress  the  dish,  reserving  a  bunch  for  the  middle ;  boil 
your  brocoli  in  salt  and  water,  and  prepare  a  toast  for 
the  centre  of  the  dish.  Beat  up  six  eggs  well ;  put  into 
a  saucepan  over  the  fire  four  table-spoonfuls  of  butter 
and  a  little  salt,  and  as  it  becomes  warm,  add  th^  eggs, 
shaking  the  whole  until  it  is  of  a  proper  consistency ;  pour , 
it  over  the   toast,  and  arrange  the  brocoli  tastefully  upon  it. 

May     be    sent    well    boiled    to    table,     with 

Beane       butter   sauce  in  a  sauce-boat,  or    the  skin  peeled 

ofF  and  dressed   in  ragout,  fricassee,   or  made  into 

pur^e  for  soups    or  sauces.     The  larger  kinds  are  generally 

served  with  port. 

Gut     off    the    stalks    first;    then    turn   to    the 

French,    point,  and   strip     off    the    strings ;  have    a    little 

salt    and  water  before    you   in    a    bowl,    and    as 

the   beans  arc   cleaned   and  stringed,  throw    them  in  ;  then 

put   them  on  the   fire.' Jn  boiling  water   with  a   little  salt; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  817 

when  tender ;  take  them  out^  and  drain  in  a  cullender ; 
they  may  be  sent  up  whole  when  young;  but  if  a  little 
old^  cut  in  two^  or  split  and  divide  across^  or  cut  into 
lozenges;   serve  with  melted  butter  in  a  boat. 

Boil  the    beans  in  salt   and    water   over   a 

Rench  beans    quick   fire ;   then   drain  them ;   lay   them  in  a 

a  la  Fran-      saucepan    near    the    fire ;   when    entirely    dry 

caise.  and    quite  hot,   add   a  couple  of  table-spoon- 

fuls   of  fresh  butter,  a  little  pepper   and  salt, 

and  the  juice   of  a  lime ;   shake   the  saucepan  about    with- 

OTit  using   a  spoon,  so   as   to  mix    the  butter  well  with  the 

sauce,   without  breaking   the  beans;   if  the   butter  does  not 

mix  well  add  a  little   white  broth. 

Boil  the  beans ;  drain  and  dry  them  as 
French  beans  directed  ^  la  Francaise ;  then  make  the  fol- 
alapouleUe.  lowing  sauce  and  add  to  them;  take  some 
white  roux  and  dilute  or  reduce  with  con- 
somm^ ;  thicken  this  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  to  wliich 
add  a  little  parsley  chopped  fine;  when  the  thickening  is 
prepared,  add  a  spoonful  of  fresh  butter,  stirring  it  well 
with  a  little  pepper  and  salt  and  some  Hme  juice. 

Shell    and    take  off  the  coats ;   boil    them 

JSazagong         in  salt  and  water;   when   nearly   done,    drain 

bean  a  la      them    and    stew   them   in   a  little   consomme 

jioulelle.       thickened  with  white   roux,  to   which   add  a 

bunch   of  parsley,   some  green   onions,   and    a 

tea-spoonful  of  sugar ;   when  the  beans   are  sufficiently  done, 

thicken    with  the  yolks    of    two   eggs   and   a  little   cream ; 

season  with  white  pepper   and  salt. 

Wash  and  clean  them  thoroughly ;  if  large, 
Cabbage  to      cut  them   into    quarters   or    divide   them ;   put 
boil.  them   into   boiling   water   with  a  little  salt. 

Boil    a    fine   cabbage ;    press,  it    free  from 

Oahbage  to       water,  and   cut  it   into   slices ;  add  a  few  green 

stew,  onions     previously    boiled    and  chopped,    with 

Dl 


Digitized  by 


Google 


218  INDIAN  DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

pepper  and  salt ;  melt   some    batter  in  a   stewpan,   mix  in 
the   cabbage,   and  warm  altogether  stirring  it  well;   add   a 
table-spoonful  of  gravy,   with  the  juice   of  a  lime  or  some 
lime   pickle ;  let  it  stew  for   a  few  minutes,  and   serve. 
Obs, — Cream  may  be   used  instead  of  butter. 

Slice   as  for  pickling;   put  it  in  a  stew- 
To  stew  red         pan    with  some     water   and   a  little  pepper 
cabbage.  and  salt,  and  stew  until  quite  tender;  strain 

off  the  liquor,  and  add  more  pepper  with 
a  little  salt  if  necessary,  and  two  or  three  table-spoonfuls 
of  vinegar,   and  warm   the  whole   together. 

Obs, — A   clove  of  garlic  gives  stewed   cabbage  a  pleasant 
relish;  it  may  be   dressed  in  stock. 

Wash  and  scrape  very  clean,  and  put  these 
Carrots.  on  in  boiling  water  with   a  little  salt.     If  the 

carrots   are   very  large,   they  should  be  cut  in 
two  or  four  pieces. 

Take  some  fine  young  carrots;  wash   and 
Puree  of  scrape  them  clean ;  then  cut  off  the  outside 

carrots.  until  you  come  to  the  middle  part ;   moisten 

them  over  a  very  slow  fire  with  a  little  but- 
ter ;  add  three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  clear  broth,  and  dredge 
in  a  little  flour ;  stew  the  whole  until  properly  done ;  pass 
through  a  tammy,   and  add  to   the  soup. 

Bemove   and    throw   away  all  the    stalks 
Cardoon  or  that  are  tough  and  fibrous  or   hollow ;  cut 

thistle  head,  the  others  into  strips,  about  five  or  six 
inches  long,  cleansing  them  well  from  the' 
prickles;  then  put  them  into  boiling  water,  and  parboil 
them,  giving  less  time  to  the  heart  than  to  the  outer 
stalks.  As  soon  as  the  slime  will  come  off  by  dipping  a 
strip  into  cold  water  and  rubbing  it  with  the  finger,  it  is 
done  enough.  On  removing  the  cardoons  from  the  fire, 
throw  them    into  cold  water^   and  cleanse  them  immediate- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKEKY.  219 

ly  from  the  slime,  using  to  do  so  nothing  but  friction 
with  the  fingers;  stew  them  afterwards  in  a  little  rich  gra- 
vy^ and  just  before  they  are  taken  off  the  fire  add  a  lump 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 

"When  required  to  be   particularly  white. 

Cauliflower*        all    the  small    leaves   must    be   picked  out, 

and  the   shoots   divided;  the   nicest  way  to 

boil  them,    is  in  milk   and  water,   or   they  may   be  dressed 

as   brocoli,   T?ith   white  sauce. 

Boil  your  cauliflower  as   directed,  but  not 
CauUflower         thoroughly ;   cut  off  the  stalk  so  that  it  will 
vnthparme"     stand  erect  in  the  dish  ;  put  it  into  a   stew- 
san cheese.       pan  with  the  following  sauce;  rub  up ^ four 
table-spoonfuls   of  butter  with  a  table-spoon- 
ful of   arrowroot,   and   as  it   melts  add   by   degrees    half  a 
pint   of  water  or  more ;  put  in  the  cauliflower,  and  let  it 
stew  a  few   minutes ;  then    take  it  from  the   fire,  and  when 
off  the    boil,   add   the   yolk    of  an   egg  well  beat  up,  with 
a   little  lime  juice  and  a  spoonful  of  water ;   shake   the  stew- 
pan   over  the  fire   till  the  sauce    is  properly  set ;    remove  the 
cauliflower  into  a  dish,^  and  cover    the  top   with  rasped  par- 
mesan ;   pour  the  sauce  round   it,   and  brown   with  a   sala- 
mander. 

Wash  and  clean  some  heads  of  celery;   cut 
Celery  stew,     them   into   pieces  of    two  or  three  inches  long, 
fchite.  and   boil  them   in   veal   or   other   wliite   stock 

until  tender.  To  half  a  pint  of  cream  add 
the  well  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  little  lemon  peel, 
grated  nutmeg,  salt,  and  a  little  butter;  make  it  hot,  stir- 
ing  it  constantly,  but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  strain  it  upon 
the  celery. 

Fry  it  in  pieces,  about  two  inches  long;   add, a 

Brown,     little   gravy,  and  put  it  to  stew  till  tender;  season 

with  mace,  pepper,  and    salt ;  thicken  and  let  it  cool. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


220  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

Half  a  small  tea-spoonful  of  celery  seeds 
Celery  teed*  will  impregnate  two  quarts  or  more  of  soup, 
with  almost  as  much  flavour  as  two  or  three 
heads  of  celery,  and  as  it  goes  to  seed  so  readily  in  this 
country,  the  seed  should  be  preserved  for  this  purpose, 
being  preferable  to  the  essence  which  does  not  impart  the 
sweetness  with   the  flavour. 

Are  not  considered  very  wholesome  unless 
Cucumbers  boiled,  roasted,  or  stewed;  the  common  way 
of  dressing  them  in  the  raw  state,  is  merely 
to  remove  the  peel,  and  cut  the  cucumber  into  thin  slices ; 
after  which,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  place  the  dish  on  a 
slope  that  the  water  may  run  from  it ;  then  dress  with  oil 
and  vinegar, — pepper  and  cayenne  may  or  may  not  be  added* 

Fare  your  cucumbers,  and  cut  into  thick  slices; 
To  stew,     flour  them  well,   and  put  them  into  a  stewpan 
with  butter  and  some  salt;  let  them  stew  slow- 
ly ;    add  half  a  pint   of  good    gravy   with   a  little   port    or 
claret  and  some  mushroom  catsup,   and   stew  until   done. 

Pare  and  slice  your  cucumbers  down  the 
Another  way.  middle ;  let  them  lie  in  salt  and  water  for 
an  hour;  then  put  them  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  pint  of  consomme  or  good  gravy,  a  slice  of  ham,  an 
onion  stuck  with  a  few  cloves,  a  little  parsley,  and  thyme; 
cover  the  saucepan,  and  let  them  stew  gently  until  tender; 
remove  them  carefully  ;  strain  the  gravy,  and  thicken  with 
a  little   butter  rolled   in   flour,   and  pour   over  them. 

BfCmove  the  seeds  either  with  a  marrow 
Cucumbers  spoon,  or  cut  them  like  a  screw  by  pressing 
stuffed.  the  knife  with  your  thumb  whilst  tumiug  it 
round  at  equal  distance  through  the  outer 
part  only ;  then  remove  the  seeds  as  directed,  and  fill  them 
with  a  farce  of  finely  minced  fowl,  veal,  or  mutton; 
put  some  lean  bacon  sliced  into  your  stewpan,  with  one 
or    two   carrots   and   onions,  two  )       three  peach  leaves  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  221 

a  little  thyme  with  pepper  and  [salt;  add  sotne  good 
consomm^^  and  let  them  stew  gently  until  tender.  Then 
carefully  remove  the  cucumbers,  and  lay  them  on  a  towel 
to  drain;  strain,  and  thicken  the  gravy  they  were  stewed 
in,   and  pour  over   them;  or   serve  with  thick  Spanish  sauce. 

Wash  and  clean    few  a  heads    of    fine 
Endive  with  endive ;   take    oflF  the    outer    leaves,   and 

Gravy  of  VeaL  blanch  the  heads  in  hot  water ;  throw 
them  into  cold  water,  and  then  squeeze 
them  as  dry  as  possible;  stew  them  in  as  much  gravy 
as  will  cover  them ;  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  sugar  and  a 
little  salt;  when  perfectly  tender,  put  in  a  little  white 
sauce  or   consomm^,   and   serve  quite  hot. 

Wash    and    clean    two    or    three    fine 

Endive  to  heads  that  have   been  well  blanched ;  pick 

dress  as  salad,     off    all    the     outer    leaves,     cut    as    you 

would   other  salad,  and    put  over  it  slices 

of  beet-root   and  salad  sauce. 

When  well   washed,    parboil    it  in  three 

Endive  with        or   four     different     waters    to    remove    its 

sippets,  sweet      bitterness ;    then  boil  it    in   salt  and  water 

breads,  4'^«  iintil     done,     when     throw    it     into      cold 

water;   remove,  squeeze,   and  chop  it  fine; 

put  it   into  a  stewpan  with    some  butter    and  a  few  young 

onions    chopped    very    small;  when     dry,    dredge  with    an 

ounce   of  flour;  add   some   seasoned   gravy  with    a   dessert* 

spoonful   of    sugar,   and  let  it  stew     gently  for    about  ten 

minutes,    and  serve    on   sippets,    &c. 

Is    a   useful   flavouring    ingredient    in   sauces. 
Garlic  chatnies,    curries,    pickles,    &c.  and    when  used 

after  having  been  boiled  in  several  waters,  a 
person  would  scarcely  believe  he  was  eating  the  vegeta- 
ble,— ^the  French  understand  the  secret  perfectly,  vide  Gi" 
got    a  I'ail. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


222  INDIAN  DOMESTIC    BCONOMY 

Fare    of  the  skin   of  six   or    eight  small 

Govrdf  vegeta-     gourds^or  as  many  dill   passand;  put  them 

ble  marrow^      into   a  stewpan  with  salt,  lemon  juice,  some 

or  dill  pus-      butter,    ghee,   or   fat  bacon,    and   let   them 

sund.  stew   gently  until   quite   tender ;  serve  with 

any  relishing   sauce  or  melted  butter. 

Ol8» — ^They  may  be  boiled  either  in  salt  and  water  or 
in  a  clear  broth;  then  sliced  and  the  water  allowed  to 
drain  off,  and  dressed  with  salt,  pepper,  and  melted  but- 
ter or  cream. 

Pick    and    beat  two   or  three    handfuls  of 
Fennel*  fennel  in   a   mortar ;  express  the  juice  through 

a  cloth;  stir  it  over  the  fire;  when  it  cur- 
dles, take  it  off,  and  pour  it  into  a  sieve ;  when  the  wa- 
ter has  run  off  put  it  again  into  the  mortar;  rub  it  well 
with   a  little   clarified   sugar,   and   put  it   up   for   use. 

Obs, — Fennel  sauce  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as 
parsley,  only  that  the  fennel  after  being  boiled  must  be 
chopped   up   and   added   to  the   butter. 

Cut   up   the   tomatas   or  love  apples,  and 
Lave  apple  between  every  layer  sprinkle  a  layer  of  salt ; 

catsup.  let  them  stand  a  few  hours  before  you  boil 

them,  which  do  very  well ;  then  strain  them 
through  a  cullender  on  some  horse-radish,  onions  or  gar- 
lic, mustard  seeds,  beaten  ginger,  pepper,  and  mace ;  co- 
ver it  close ;  let  it  stand  a  day  or  two ;  then  bottle  and 
seal  it   for   use. 

Prepare   the  tomatas  exactly  in  the  same 
Zove  apple  manner  as  recommended  for  sauce,  only  boil 

cakes  for  away  as  much  of  the  watery  particles  as  you 

stews,  8fc.  conveniently,  can ;   then  place  the  residue  ia 

a  flat  dish  out  in  the  sun ;  when  it  has  eva- 
porated so  as  to  become  almost  a  dry  cake,  cut  it  into 
pieces  about  one  inch  square,  and  preserve  either  in  wide- 
mouthed  bottles   or  canisters ;   when     required   for   use   one 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    CO0K£RT.  223 

of  the  squares  soaked  in  water  for  a  few  hours  until  dis- 
solved will  be  sufficient  to  season  a  dish  of  cutlets  or 
soup.  This  will  keep  a  long  time^  in  fact  it  is  only  the 
inspissated  juice  of  tomatas. 

These   are  principally  imported  from  France 
Morels.  and  Italy  in   a  preserved  state,   and   are  the 

only  one  of  the  fungus  tribe  that  will  bear 
drying  without  losing  their  flavour.  They  are  found  in 
old  white-ant  nests  in  most  parts  of  India,  and  have  a  very 
high  flavour  when  fresh  and  fine^  and  in  this  state^  are  a 
delicious   addition  to   stews   and   sauces. 

Are  only  procurable  during  the  rains. 
Mushrooms  and  are  found  in  light  soils  where  cattle 
have  been  penned,  or  are  in  the  habit  of 
grazing;  they  are  never  produced  by  cultivation  in  India, 
but  grow  spontaneously:  sheep  and  goat  tracks  are  the 
most   favourable   spots   for  finding  them   on. 

White  is    made  by  blanching  the  mush- 

Pwree  of  fnM^A'^    rooms    in  a    little  water  and    lemon  juice; 

roomSi  fohite     then    put    them    into     a    stewpan    with    a 

or  brown*  small   bit   of  butter ;  when   the  mushrooms 

are  softened,    moisten    them     with    a    few 

spoonfuls  of  white    sauce,  but  do    not  let  them  boil   long^ 

else   they   will  lose   their    flavour ;   then    rub    them  through  ' 

a   tammy,   adding   a  little   sugar. 

Brown  is  prepared  in  a  similar  manner ;  clean  the  mush- 
rooms ;  chop  them  up  fine,  but  do  not  fry  them,  else  they 
will   blacken  the   sauce;  add   espagnole  or   brown  sauce. 

Pick  and  peel    half  a  pint  of  mushrooms ; 
Mushroom      wash    them     very     clean;    put     them     into    a 
stew.  saucepan,    with    half  a    pint   of    veal  gravy    or 

white  broth,  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  nut- 
meg ;  let  them  stew  till  tender ;  then  add  a  spoonful  of 
butter  rolled  in   flour   or  arrowroot  sufficient  to  thicken  it; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN    DOMESTIC   ECONOMT 

simmer  a  few    minutes    longer,  and    serve;  a    little   wine 
may   be  added. 

Take  those  of  a  middling  size ;  skin  and  wash 

To  grill.  them  very  clean :   if  necessary,  strain  and  dry 

them  in   a  cloth;  pat  a  little  butter  over  the 

inside   of  each ;   sprinkle    some    salt .  and   pepper,  and  grill 

or  fry   till   tender. 

Prepare  and    cook  the  mushrooms   in  but- 
Omelette.         ter,   pepper   and   salt,    and    mix  into   a  plain 
omelet. 

Select  those  with  reddish  or  pink  gills  in- 
To  choose.  side,  and  agreeable  scent ;  a  wholesome  or 
eatable  mushroom  will  always  peel;  an  un- 
wholesome one  will  not — a  small  onion  it  is  said  if  boil- 
ed with  mushrooms^  will  turn  black  or  lose  its  colour  if 
there  are  any  unwholesome  ones  amongst  them ;  silver 
also  is   blackened  in  the   same   manner. 

The  older  and  drier  the  onion,  the  stronger 
Onions.  its  flavour,  and  the  cook  must  regulate  the 
quantity  accordingly.  Onions  sliced  and  fried 
with  some  butter  and  flour  till  they  are  browned  (and 
rubbed  through  a  sieve)  are  excellent  to  heighten  the  co- 
lour and  flavour  of  brown  soups  and  sauces,  and  form 
the  basis  of  most  of  the  relishes  furnished  by  the  ''res- 
taurateurs." 

Take  a  dozen  white  onions,  and  after*  hav- 
To  loiL  ing  peeled  and  washed  them,  take  off  the  tops 
and  bottoms;  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with 
cold  water  or  broth;  boil  till  tender,  and  serve.  The  Ita- 
lians cut  them  into  halves,  and  dress  with  oil,  vinegar,  pep- 
per, and  salt;    oream  or  butter  may   be  used  instead  of  oil. 

Obs.—ln  cutting  off*  the  tops  and  bottoms  take  care 
not  to  cut  them  too  near,  otherwise  the  onions  will  go 
to  pieces. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    OOOKBRT.  825 

Take  fine  fresh-gathered  sprigs  ;  pick  and 
Panley,  to  wash  them  clean ;  set  on  a  saucepan  half 
preserve,  full  of  water  ;  put  a  little  salt  in  it ;  boil 
and  skim  it  clear ;  then  put  in  the  parsley, 
and  let  it  boil  for  a  couple  of  minutes;  and  take,  it  out 
and  lay  it  on  a  cloth  or  basket  and  put  it  in  the  sun 
that  it  may.  be  dried  as  quick  as  possible  ;  keep  it  in  a 
tin  box  in  a  dry  place ;  when  wanted,  cover  it  with  warm 
water   a  few  minutes   before   you  use  it. 

Let  it  be  picked  and  washed  \  then  shake 
Fried*  it   in  a  dry  doth  to    drain  the    water   from 

it;  when  perfectly  dry,  put  it  into  a  pan  of 
hoi  fat ;  fry  it  quick,  and  take  it  out  the  moment  it  is 
crisp ;  put  it  on  a  coarse  cloth  before  the  fire  to  drain, 
or  after  thje  parsley  is  perfectly  dried  put  it  on  a  sheet 
of  paper  in  a  Dutch  oven  before  the  fire  and  turn  it  fre- 
quently until  it  is  quite   crisp. 

The  best  mode  of  dressing  these  is  to  roast 
Parsnips.  them  in   the  oven,  or  they  may   be  parboil- 

ed in  their  skin  and  roasted  after  in  a 
Dutch  oven  :  send  them  whole  to  table,  or  slice*  without 
paring  and  serve  with  melted  or  hard  butter. 

Put  them  into  plenty  of  water  with  some 
Potatoes,  to         salt ;    when    they    are    about     half-boiled, 
boilm  throw   away  the    water,  and    pour    boiling 

water  over  the  potatoes,  adding  to  it  some 
salt;  let  it  boil  up  briskly,  ascertain  with  a  fork  if  the 
potatoes  are  nearly  done,  and  if  so,  throw  in  a  cup  of 
cold  water  to  check  the  boiling  ;  the  water  will  soon  boil 
up  again,  and  the  potatoes  will  crack ;  drain  off  the  water 
and  serve  the  potatoes  up  immediately  in  an  open  dish, 
or  in    a  napkin. 

Pare  the  potatoes  and  cover  them  with 
A  noiher,  cold  water   and   boil   till  *  quite    tender  ;  then 

drain   off  the  water,  and  strew  some  salt    over 

il 


Digitized  by 


Google 


286  INDIAN    DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 

them  ;  place  the  saucepan  near  the  fire,  with  the  lid  off, 
and  continually  shake  it  till  the  potatoes  appear  dry  and 
floury. 

These  should  be  fresh  dug— take  them  of 
To  baU  new  equal  size ;  rub  off  the  skins  with  a  coarse 
potatoes.  cloth,  and  wash  them  clean  ;  put  them  into 
hot  water  without  salt^  and  boil  4;ill  tender  ; 
drain  off  all  the  water,  and  set  them  by  the  side  of  the 
fire,  strewing  a  little  salt  over  them ;  and  immediately 
they    are   ready,  serve  in   a  napkin   hot,  with  melted  butter. 

Are  never  good  unless  perfectly  ripe.  Choose 
New  potatoes  them  as  nearly  of  one  size  as  possible  ;  wash 
them  and  rub  off  the  outer  rind  and  wipe 
them  dry  with  a  napkin ;  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
fresh  butter  into  a  stewpan  ;  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  when 
it  boils,  throw  in  the  potatoes  ;  let  them  boil  till  they  are 
done,  taking  care  to  toss  them  every  now  and  then,  so 
that  they  may  all  go  successively  into  the  boiling  butter. 
They  must  be  carefully  watched,  because,  if  done  too  much, 
they  shrivel  up  and  become  waxy.  When  the  fork  indi- 
cates they  are  done,  they  must  be  taken  out  before  they 
lose  their  crispness,  put  into  a  dish,  and  some  salt  sprink- 
led over  them.  As  soon  as  taken  from  the  boiling  but- 
ter, a  handful  of  picked  parsley  may  be  thrown  into  it, 
and  after  it  has  had  a  boil  or  two,  laid  upon  the  potatoes 
as   a  garnish. 

Old  potatoes  may  be  cut  into  round  pieces,  about  the 
size   of  a  walnut,   and  dressed  in  the  same  way. 

Parboil  the  potatoes,  then  cut  them  up  into 
To  fry.  slices,  and  fry  them  in  butter  or  dripping  ;  when 

they   are  brown,  drain   off  the  fat,  and  strew  a 
little  salt  over  them,   and  eat  while  hot    and   crisp. 

Potatoes  may  be  fried  without  being  parboiled,  and 
even  when  boiled  and  become  cold  ;  the  process  in  both 
cases    must   be  the  same. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKCKT.  M7 

May  be  varied  at  pleasure,  using  the  pota- 
Potaioe  toes  as  crumbs  are  used  in  other  scollops,  and 

scollops  for  which  they  must  only  be  parboiled  and 
rasped^  and  mixed  with .  rasped  ham,  bacon, 
parsley,  scallion,  butter,  gravy  or  cream,  pepper  and  salt, 
or  with  mushrooms,  oysters  or  shrimps,  with  savoury  herbs; 
any  of  these  may  be  cheesed  or  curried.  They  are  excel- 
lent supper  dishes  mashed  sweet,  or  savoury  served  in  shells. 

Boil  some  potatoes  very  dry,  or  till  they 
Poiatoe  balls,  are  ilpury ;  mash  a  pound  of  them  very 
smooth  and  mix  with  them  while  they  are 
warm,  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
a  little  nutmeg,  the  strained  and  beaten  yolk  of  four  eggs, 
and  last  of  all,  the  whites  thoroughly  mixed ;  mould  with 
and  drop  the  mixture  from  a  t«a-spoon  into  a  small  pan 
of  boiling  butter  or  ghee  or  very  pure  lard,  and  fry  the 
boulettes  for  five  minutes  over  a  moderate  fire;  they  should 
be  of  a  fine   pale   brown    and  very   light    colour* 

Mix  mashed   potatoes   with  the  yolk  of  an 
Another.  egg ;   roll   them   into  balls ;  flour  them  or  egg 

and    bread-crumb  them,  and  fry  them  in  clean 
dripping   or  ghee,   or   brown   them  in   a    Dutch    oven. 

The  potatoes  must  be  free  from  spots, 
Potatoesnow.  and  the  whitest  you  can  pick  out;  put 
them  on  in  cold  water,  when  they  begin  to 
crack,  strain  the  water  from  them,  and  put  them  into  a 
clean  stewpan  by  the  side  of  the  fire  till  they  are  quite « 
dry,  and  fall  to  pieces;  rub  them  through  a  wire  sieve 
on  the  dish  they  are  to  be  sent  up  in,  and  do  not  dis- 
turb  them    afterwards. 

Should   be    as   nicely    boiled   as   if  for   eat- 

Potatoes  ing — perhaps  a  little  more  so,  only  care  must  be 

masked         taken  that  the   water  does  not  get  into  them; 

remove  the  skin,  and. mash  them  with  a  small 


Digitized  by 


Google 


S08  INDIAN   DOMESTIC    KCONOMT 

quantity  of  butter,  cream  or  milk ;  put  them  into  a  moald 
to  give  a  nice  form;  turn  them  out,  and  brown  with  a 
salamander  or  in  an  oven,  or  they  may  be  made  into  balk, 
covered  with  the  yolk  of  eggs,  and  fried  a  nice,  brown. 

Take  cold  boiled    potatoes;  cut  them   into 
Potato€9  a  la    rather  thin   slices   of  the  fourth  of  an  inch ; 
Maitre  d*     put  a  lump   of  butter    into  a  stewpan,  and 
HSteL  add     a    little    flour,     about     a    tea-spoonful 

for  a  middling  sized  dish  ;  when  the  flour 
has  boiled  a  little  while  in  the  butter,  add  by  degrees  a 
cupful  of  broth  or  white  consomm^;  when  this  has  boil- 
ed up,  put  in  the  potatoes,  with  chopped  parsley,  pepper 
and  salt;  let  the  potatoes  stew  a  few  minutes;  then  take 
them  from  the  fire  and  let  the  boiling  entirely  cease;  then 
add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beat  up  with  a  little  lemon  juice, 
and  a  table-spoonful  of  cold  water ;  let  it  set  over  the  fire, 
but  mind  it  does  not  curdle,  or  that  the  potatoes  break 
in  the  sauce* 

Boil  some   potatoes  nicely,  and    mash   the 

PurSe  de  inside  in  a  mortar,   or  rub  through  a  sieve ; 

pommede      moisten  them  with     good  broth,   or     thicken 

terre*  with  butter  and  cream ;  put  carefully  over  the 

fire  and  warm  it.    The  pur^e  should  be  thinner 

than  mash, — place  fried     sippets  of  bread  round  the  dish, 

and   the   potatoes  in  the  centre. 

Take  a  pint    and   a  half  of    fresh  shelled 
Puree  of  green   peas,    put    them  into   a   stewpan  with 

OreenPeoiAwo  spoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful of  pounded  sugar,  half  a  handful  of 
parsley  and  green  onions,  over  a  slow  fire,  till  they  are 
thoroughly  stewed;  then  pound  the  whole  in  a  mortar 
and  rub  through  a  cloth.  Moisten  the  whole  with  con- 
somme or  white  broth;  leave  it  near  the  fire  to  simmer 
only,  for  if  it  should  boil  the  peas  lose  their  green  colour. 
When  serving,  add  slices  of  bread  cut  in  dice  and  nicely  fried^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND     COOKERY.  2S9 

Green  peas  should  be  young,  fresh  gather- 
Oreen  peas,  ed,  and  cooked  as  soon  as  they  are  shelled  ; 
toboiL  Ux  they  soon  lose  both  their  colour  and 
sweetness;  large  and  small  peas  cannot  be 
boiled  together,  as  the  former  will  take  more  time  than 
the  latter;  therefore,  separate  the  large  from  the  smaller 
ones,  and  boil  them  for  a  few  minutes  before  adding  the 
latter ;  set  on  a  saucepan  with  a  sufficiency  of  water ;  when 
it  boils,  put  in  your  peas,  with  a  little  salt ;  skim  it  well ; 
keep  them  boiling  quick  according  to  their  age  and  size; 
when  they  are  done  enough,  drain  them  on  a  sieve.  It 
is  usual  to  boil  some  mint  with  the  peas,  but  if  you  wish 
to  garnish  the  peas  with  mint,  boil  a  few  sprigs  in  a 
saucepan  by  themselves. 

Take  a  quart  of  green  peas;  throw  them 
Peas  (French  into  an  earthen  pan,  with  a  table-spoonful 
fashion).  of  fresh  butter  and  plenty  of  cold  water; 
rub  the  peas  with  the  butter  till  they  stick 
together;  then  drain  them;  take  them  out  of  the  water 
by  handfuls  and  throw  them  into  a  colander,  that  neither 
water  nor  any  kind  of  filth  may  remain.  Next  stew  them 
over  a  moderate  fire  with  a  bunch  of  parsley  and  green 
onions  ;  when  they  have  recovered  their  green  colour,  pow- 
der them  over  with  a  little  flour ;  stir  the  peas  before  you 
moisten  them  with  boiling  water  till  they  are  entirely 
covered  with  it,  which  reduce  quickly  on  a  large  fire. 
The  moment  you  perceive  there  is  no  moisture  or  liquor 
remaining,  dip  a  small  lump  of  sugar  into  some  water  that 
it  may  soon  melt,  and  put  it  to  the  peas,  to  which  add 
a  very  small  quantity  of  salt.  Green  peas  without  taste 
are  very  insipid,  although  the  persons  who  eat  them  are 
not  sensible  of  there  being  any.  Next  take  a  spoonful  of 
butter,  which  knead  with  one  of  flour ;  (mind  that  the  peas 
are  boiling  when  you  put  in  the  kneaded  butter,)  thicken 
them  with  it,  and  remember  that  when  green  peas  are 
properly    dressed,    there  must    be    no    sauce.    It    may   be 


Digitized  by 


Google 


230  INDIAN      DOMESTIC     ECONOMY 

useful  to  remark  that,  if  the  peas  are  not   very  young  and 

tender,   they   must   be    moistened   with   boiling    water ;  bat 

if  they  are   young,   fresh   gathered,   and   fresh   shelled,  they 
do   not  require  it. 

And  more  simple  process  is,  after  having 
Another  way,  washed  your  peas  well,  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  as  much  butter  only  as  will  stick 
to  them,  a  couple  of  spoonfuls  of  water  with  a  little  chop, 
ped  mint,  pepper,  salt,  and  sugar;  cover  the  saucepan  down, 
and  let  them  stew  gently  from  15  to  SO  minutes.  Then 
add  a  small  quantity  of  cream,  or  butter  mixed  with  arrow- 
root or  flour,  or  two  table- spoonfuls  of  liaison  ;  shake  the 
saucepan  well  over  the  fire  for  a  minute,  and  the  peas 
are   ready. 

Take  a  quart  of  shelled  peas,  and  mix  them 
Another.  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter ;  lay  upon 
them  a  large  lettuce  cut  into  slices,  with  half  a 
dozen  small  onions  only  split,  with  a  sprig  or  two  of  mint^ 
a  wine  glass  of  water,  and  set  the  saucepan  covered  close 
on  the  fire ;  when  the  lettuce  falls  to  the  bottom,  shake 
the  saucepan  well  until  the  peas  are  uppermost ;  add  sea- 
soning of  pepper,  salt,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar,  and 
stew   the  peas  until  tender. 

06*. — The  fire  must  not  be  very  brisk — green  peas  may 
be  added  with  advantage  to  stews,  ragouts,  and  to  any 
vegetable  soup. 

Stew  a  pint  of  young  green  peas  ten- 
Green  peas  mth  der,  with  a  table-spoonful  of  butter  and  a 
buttered  egg.  tea-spoonful  of  sugar,  a  little  salt  and 
chopped  parsley ;  then  beat  up  two  eggs' 
yolk  and  white  very  well  together  in  a  basin,  and  pour  it 
over  the  peas ;  stir  it  very  quickly,  and  immediately  serve 
it   up   before   the   egg  becomes  hard. 

There  are  deep  glasses   made  on  purpose   for 
Radishes,        sending    these   to   table   in  water,    mixed  with 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKE&T.  ^  231 

cresses   and    other  salad,    as  an    ornament.    They  should  be 
picked  and  washed   very  nicely  previous  to  sending  to  table. 

The  peas  should  be  fresh  shelled.  Put  them 
Green j>eas,  into  wide*mouth  glass  bottles  which  have  been 
topreserve.  carefully  washed ;  put  the  bottles  in  a  sauce- 
pan or  boiler,  with  a  litde  hay  between  them 
to  prevent  their  coining  in  contact ;  fill  up  the  kettle  with 
cold  water,  and  heat  it ;  when  the  water  begins  to  boil 
take  off  the  saucepan  directly  ;  leave  the  bottles  in  the  wa- 
ter until  it  is  quite  cold,  for  fear  they  should  break  by 
taking  them  out  whilst  the  water  is  hot :  cork  down  the 
bottles,  and   keep  them  in  a  dry  and   cold  place. 

Shell  your  finest  peas,  have  ready  a  sauce- 
Anoiherway*  pan  of  boiling  water,  throw  the  peas  in  and 
take  the  saucepan  from  the  fire;  let  them 
remain  two  or  three  minutes  in  the  water,  drain  them  on 
a  towel  and  let  them  dry  quickly,  when  quite  dry  put 
them  out  in  the  sun  or  in  a  very  cool  oven,  and  let  them 
remain  until  quite  hard.  When  required  for  use  soak  them 
in  warm   water  till  tender,   with  a  little  butter  and  sugar. 

These  should  be  freshly  drawn,  young  and 
Badisieiyiur''  white.  Wash  and  trim  them  neatly,  leaving 
nips,  to  boiL  on  two  or  three  of  the  small  inner  leaves 
of  the  top;  boil  them  in  plenty  of  salted 
water  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  and  as  soon  as  they 
are  tender,  send  them  to  table  well  drained,  with  melted 
batter  or  white  sauce.  Common  radishes,  when  young, 
tied  in  bunches  and  boiled  from  eighteen  to  twenty-five 
minutes,  tben  served  on  a  toast  like  asparagus,  are  very  good. 

Have  your    salad    herbs  as    fresh    as  possible; 
Salad.      carefully  wash  and  pick  them ;  trim  off  all  worm- 
eaten,  cankered,  and  dry  leaves ;   drain  off  all  th^ 
water,   or   swing   them   in   a   clean   napkin;   when   properly 


Digitized  by 


Google 


232  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

picked  and  cut,  arrange  them  in  the  salad  bowl ;  mix  the 
sauce  in  a  soup  plate^  but  do  not  put  it  to  the  salad 
until   required   for   use. 

Mix  rasped    parmesan  into    butter    melted 

Scorzonera        in    cream    or    gravy ;    when    the    vegetables 

in  parmesan,  are  dressed,  lay  them  in   a  dish,    pour  over 

the   sauce,   and    sprinkle    it     with    pounded 

cheese ;   put  the   dish   into  an    oven,   or    brown   it    with   a 

salamander. 

After  having  carefully  picked  and  washed 
Spinach,  four  or  five  times  in  plenty  of  water,  put  it 
in  boiling  water  with  some  salt  in  a  large  ves- 
sel where  it  may  have  plenty  of  room ;  the  leaves  that 
rise  above  the  water  must  be  pressed  down.  When  the 
spinach  is  half  done,  take  it  off  the  fire;  strain  it,  and 
prepare  some  more  boiling  water  and  salt,  in  which  it 
must  be  again  boiled  till  sufficiently  done.  The  moment 
it  is  so,  put  it  into  a  colander,  and  keep  throwing  cold 
water  over  it  for  some  time;  then  make  it  into  balls,  and 
with  your  hands  press  out  every  drop  of  water  it  con- 
tains; afterwards  chop  it  into  almost  a  fine  paste.  lyTow 
put  a  lump  of  butter  into  a  stewpan,  and  place  the  spinach 
upon  the  butter;  let  it  dry  gently  over  the  fire;  when 
the  moisture  has  evaporated,  dredge  it  with  a  little  flour; 
then  add  a  small  quantity  of  good  gravy,  with  seasoning 
of  jpepper  and  salt  to  your  taste ;  serve  it  up  with  sippets 
fried  in   butter. 

Boil    some    good    cream    just    before    you 
Spinach  with    put   the  spinach  into  the    stewpan   with  the 
sugar,  butter,    as   in    the   last    receipt ;    when   yoa 

have  added  the  flour  as  directed,  together 
with  a  little  salt,  put  in  the  cream  with  some  sugar  and 
nutmeg;  let  it  simmer  for  ten  minutes;  then  serve  it 
up  on  sippets  with  a  very  small  quantity  of  pounded  lump 
sugar,  or  sugar-candy  strewed    over  it. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKEKT.  f  S3 

First  pick  dean  the  leaves  and  boil,  squeeze 
Spinach  the  juice  from  it  by  pressing  through  a  tow- 

eohmring.  el^  place  the  liquor  in  a  small  stewpan  in  a 

hot-water  bath,  or  in  a  jar,  which  set  in  a 
saucepan  of  water  to  boil,  when  the  green  has  settled  at 
the  bottom  strain  it  through  a  silk  sieve  or  fine  muslin, 
and  use  it  for  whatever  requires   to  be  coloured   green. 

Cut  your  turnips  (after  having  well  dean- 
PurSe  of  ed  and  pared  them)  into  slices  ;  dress  them 
iurtiipi.  over  a  very  slow  fire,  with  a  little  butter, 
and  take  care  they  do  not  get  brown ;  stir 
the  whole  with-  a  wooden  spoon,  and  when  quite  soft,  add 
a  sufficient  quantity  of  clear  strong  broth  ;  dredge  in  a 
little  flour,  and  stew  the  whole  to  a  proper  consistence, 
adding  cream  or  white  sauce  if  necessary. 

Mashed  vegetables,  such  as  turnips,  carrots. 
Turnips,  beet-root,  parsnips  and    potatoes,    are  all  to 

masked.  be  well  cooked  in  salt  and  water,  refreshed, 
drained  and  beat  and  dried  over  the  fire  till 
they  attain  a  proper  consistency,  and  are  well  seasoned 
with  cream,  butter,  stock,  eggs,  or  a  proper  mixture  of 
any  or  all  of  them.  Mixtures  may  be  made  of  these  ve- 
getables in  any  proportion,  and  when  they  are  wanted 
very  rich,  a  large  quantity  of  cream  may  be  dried  into 
them. 


rl 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CHAPTER    XII 


DEVILS,  ZESTS,  Ere. 

This  fish  is  verj  delicate^  and  of  great  utility 
Anchovy,    in  cooking  \  be    careful    when  yon  open  a  jar 
to   close     it     again    tight,     as  the  fish  is  soon 
spoilt,   and  rusts  by   the  admission  of  air. 

Wash  from  the  picUe    some    of  the  fish ; 
Butter  An-      bone,  and  take    off    the   heads  ;   then  pound 
cAovy.  them  in  a  mortar  with  fresh  butter  till  quite 

smooth,  and  rub  through  a  sieve  if  neces- 
sary. If  to  be  kept,  put  into  small  pots,  and  cover  over 
with  clarified  beef  suet,  6r  it  gets  soon   rancid. 

Obs. — It  is  sometimes  made  hot  for  devilling  biscuits. 
By  the  addition  of  cayenne,  flour  of  mustard,  spice,  &c. 
it  will  make  anchovy   toasl. 

Clean  some  fish,  cut  off  their    heads,  and 

Anchovy  remove  the   bones ;  pound  them  in  a  mortar^ 

powder.        and  rub  through  a  sieve  ;  then  make  it  into  a 

paste   with   dry    flour ;  roll  it  into  thin  cakes, 

and  dry  in  the  sun  or  an  oven  ;   pound  into  a  fine  powder, 

and  put  into  a  well  stoppered  bottle.     It  will  keep  a  long  time. 

Ohs. — ^To  this  may  be  added  cayenne  pepper,  or  citric 
acid,  and  will  be  found  excellent  sprinkled  on  bread  and 
butter   for   a  sandwich. 

Spread   a   little  salad  sauce   on    two  sides  of 

Sandwich,    bread ;    cut   and  wash    some  anchovies,  take  out 

the  bones,   and  put  the  fillets   on    one  piece  of 

the    bread  which    is  to   be    covered     with    the   other;  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY  AND    COOKERY.  SS& 

pieces  of  aiichovy  should    not    touch,   else    the    sandwich 
may   be  too  salt. 

Procure  a  very  warm  hot  water  plate — it  cannot 
Toast,  be  too  much  so ;  take  a  couple  of  eggs  and  yolks 
broken  separately  to  see  they  are  fresh;  then  put 
a  spoonful  of  butter  on  the  plate,  and  as  it  melts  keep 
stirring  the  eggs  jnto  it;  add  a  little  cayenne  and  as 
much  anchovy  essence  as  is  deemed  necessary  for  covering 
your  toast ;  which  should  be  nicely  browned  and  buttered, 
or  sprinkled  with  milk.  « 

Oi9. — This   will  be  of  the  consistence  of  very  thick  cream 
if  the  plate  is  hot. 

Another        Is  merely  to  prepare  buttered   toast,  and   drop 
icay.      a  little  essence  upon  it. 

Bleach  four  ounces     of  sweet   almonds,     and 
Almonds      fry  them  in  a  stewpan  with  an   ounce  of  fresh 
ievilled.    butter.    Then  drain   them  over  a   sieve;    strew ^ 
over  them  some  salt,   cayenne  pepper^  and  mace 
mixed  together;  serve  them  up  very  hot. 

Butter  the  biscuits  on  both  sides,  and  pep- 

Devilled  Us-    per  them  well;  rub  up  some  cheese  with  made 

cuUsmth    mustard,    and  lay    one  side;   sprinkle   a  little 

cieese.         salt  and   cayenne  over  the  top,  and  let  them 

be  grilled. 

Is    simply    toasting  the  biscuit  and    but- 
DemUedhis-^      tering  it  while   hot,  then  sprinkliug  cayenne 
euits  (plain)  pepper  over  it  with  a  little  salt. 

Obs. — Cooks  in    this    country    warm  the    biscuits   on   a 
gridiron,   or  else  fry  them  in   a  little   butter  or  ghee. 

Bone  and  wash  some  anchovies ;  pound  them 
Another.  in  mortflr  with  a  little  butter  and  cayenne  pep- 

per, (should  be  rubbed  through  a  sieve) ;  spread 
on  a   warm  toast  or  biscuit    fried  in  butter. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


S36  INDIAN   DOKE8TIC  ECONOUY 

NoTB. — ^A  little  ragout  powder,  fine  pounded  mustard  and 
salt  of  each  half  an  ounce,  allspice,  cayenne,  ginger,  and 
nutmeg  of  each  one  quarter  of  an  ounce,  black  pepper 
and  lemon  peel  grated  half  an  ounce,  pounded  and  well 
mixed   together,  may  be  added  if  a  further  zest  is  required. 

Bub  smooth  two  or  three  slices  of  good  fresh 
Cheese.        dheese  that    breaks  smoothlj^    under  the  knife ; 
add  a  portion   of  butter  equal  to  half  the  cheese 
with   cayenne   pepper    and  salt. 

Take  the  liver  of    a  roast  or    boiled  turkey 
Liver.  or  fowl ;   mash   it  smooth  on  a  hotwater  plate  ; 

add  a  little  butter,  some  mustard,  salt,  and 
cayenne,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce  or  mush- 
room catsup. 

Score  the  legs  of  a  roasted  turkey,  goose 
Lege  ofpoul-        or  fowl ;  sprinkle    them  well  with  cayenne, 
try.  black    pepper    and  salt;     broil    them  wdlj 

and  pour  over  the  following  sauce:  Take 
three  spoonfuls  of  gravy,  one  of  butter  rubbed  in  a  little 
flour,  one  of  lemon  juice,  a  glass  of  wine  (port  or  white,) 
a  spoonful  of  mustard,  some  chillie  vinegar,  or  two  or  three 
chopped  green  chillies,  a  spoonful  of  mushroom  catsup, 
and   Harvey  sauce;  warm   up,   and  serve  in  a  boat 

Obe.'—lt  very  highly  seasoned  it  may  be  served  with- 
out sauce. 

Take  six  or  eight  spoonfuls  of  gravy  : 
Devilled — another     add  a  spoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour 
sauce  for  grilled     or   arrowroot,  a   spoonful   of  mushroom 
meat  seasoned.        catsup   or  walnut,  two  spoonfuls   of  le- 
mon or  lime  juice,  one  spoonful  of  made 
mustard  and  one   of  minced  capers,  a  little  chiUie  vinegar, 
some  black  pepper  with  the  rind    of   half  a    grated    Ume 
with  a  tea-spoonful   of  essence  of  anchovies;    simmer  this 
in  a  silver    saucepan ;  pour  a  little    over    the    grill,    and 
serve  the  rest  in  a   butter  boat. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  287 

Take  one  pound  of  prawns  dried  and 
BaUaekang.  cleaned  of  all  shell  and  dirt;  cut  and 
pound  them  as  fine  as  possible,  to  which 
add  of  pounded  dry  chillies  four  tolahs^  four  ounces  of 
salt,  two  bundles  or  roots  of  garlic,  four  ounces  of  green 
ginger  cleaned  and  sliced  very  fine,  one  pint  of  tamarind 
juice  or  pulp;  mix  all  these  ingredients  with  at  least  half 
a  pint  of  good  ghee;  then  take  and  add,  if  you  require 
it  for  immediate  use,  about  half  a  pint  of  chopped  onions, 
the  peel  cut  thin  of  three  limes  or  an  orange,  and  a  few 
fresh  lime  leaves;  put  the  whole  into  a  fryingpan  over  the 
fire,  with  half  a  pound  of  butter;  fry  and  keep  stirring 
it  that  it   may  not  burn. 

Ob9» — ^This  ballachong  will  keep  a  long  time  if  bottled 
in  its  raw  state  without  the  onions,  all  the  other  ingre- 
dients being  well  mixed  with  an  additional  quantity  of 
ghee  if  necessary;  at  all  events,  the  top  in  the  bottles 
should   be  covered  with  it. 

Boil  one  hundred    prawns,    take  off  the 
BaUaehong*  shells  and  clean  them;   then  grind  them  on 

a  curry  stone,  with  sufficient  vinegar  to  keep 
the  stone  wet;  take  two  ounces  of  green  ginger,  half  an 
ounce  of  red  chillies,  half  an  ounce  of  garlic^  and  the  peel 
of  four  lemons;  pound  them  separately;  then  take  two 
ounces  of  salt  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons ;  mix  all  the 
ingredients  with  the  prawns;  cut  four  onions  in  rings, 
and  fry  them  with  sufficient  butter  to  keep  the  prawns 
from  burning;  when  the  onions  become  soft,  and  the  bal- 
lachong dry,  take  it  out,  and  let  it  cool.  To  be  kept  a 
long  time,  it  must  be  put  in  jars  with  orange  leaves  on 
the   top,  and  closed  up  with   skins. 

Melt    in  a  silver  or   other    saucepan   a   des- 

Cheeae  to      sert-spoonfol  of  butter  with  a  tea-cup  of  cream  ; 

dew.        mix    with  it    a    quarter    of  'a^  'pound  of  good 

cheese    finely    grated;    beat    it    well    together; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


S38  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

put  a  slice  of   toasted    bread    into  a  dish,    and   pour   the 
mixture  over  it,  and  brown   with   a  salamander. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  good  mellow  cheese ; 

Pounded*         cut  into    thin    bits;    add  a  table-spoonful  of 

butter;  rub   it  well    in   a  mortar  until  it  is 

quite   smooth;  add  a  little  ground  spice  or  essence,  pepper 

and  cayenne  with  made   mustard. 

Cut  some  double  or  single   Gloucester  cheese 

CAeese  to      into   thin    slices ;   put  it  with   a  bit    of  butter 

toast.        into   a  cheese    toaster;  place  it  before  the   fire 

till  .the    cheese    dissolves,    stirring  it  pow  and 

then;   serve  it  on  a  slice  of  toasted  bread  with  the  crust 

pared   off.    Eat  with  mustard,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Mix  about  four  ounces  of  bread  crumbs  with 
Another,  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cream;  add  a  large  table-spoonful  of 
butter  with  four  of  grated  or  pounded  cheese,  a  spoonful 
of  mustard,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  put  the  whole 
into  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  stir  it  until  it  be  well 
heated;  then  lay  it  thick  upon  small  slices  of  toasted 
bread,  and  brown  with  a  salamander  or  hot  shovel;  serve 
quite   hot. 

This  should  always  be   served  quite   hot; 
Marrow  toast,      the    marrow    after    being     spread    on    the 
toast,  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt  or  a 
little   essence  of  anchovy. 

Take   fine    dry   mushrooms  with    red   gills ; 

Mushrooms,     peel  off  the  outer  skin,  and  see  that  they  are 

Devilled*        perfectly    free  from    sand   or   dirt;   spread   a 

little    butter    over    the    inside,   and    sprinkle 

plenty   of  black    pounded  pepper  over    them,  with  a  little 

cayenne  and  salt;  broil  them  on  a  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire, 

Obs. — K  the  mushroom   peels  easily   you  may  almost  be 
sure  it  is   edible. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  2S9 

This  must  be   made  with   a   fine  hen  lob- 
Lobster  or  sler  when  full    of  spawn.     Boil  them  tho* 

crab  potted,  roughly;  when  cold,  pick  out  all  the  solid 
meat,  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar ;  it  is  usual 
to  add  by  degrees  (a  very  little)  finely  pounded  mace,  black 
or  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and  while  pounding,  a  little  but- 
ter; when  the  whole  is  well  mixed  and  beat  to  the  con- 
sistence of  paste,  press  it  down  hard  in  a  preserving  pot, 
pour  clarified  butter  over  it  and  coyer  it  with  wetted 
bladder. 

Take  the  meat   out  of  the   tail,  claws,   and  body 

Salad,   of    lobster  or    crab,     cut     it     nicely,     and     dish   it, 

(eggs  may    or  .may    not    be    served    with    it,)    also 

salad  herbs — strew  the  spawn    over,   and    cover   or  garnish 

with   broken   savoury  jelly. 

May  be    made     by    adding   to  salad    sauce    a 
Another,    small  canister  of  hermetically  sealed  lobsters,  but 
then    omit    the    salad  oil   and    substitute  cream, 
otherwise  it  will  be  too  thin ;   salad  may  be  added. 

Take  the  white   meat   of  a   roast  or  boiled 
ImUation        fowl,    and  mince  it  very  fine  with   the  liver, 
crab*  about  six    table-spoonfuls    in  all,   two     table- 

spoonfuls  of  pounded  cheese,  a  couple  of  mo- 
derate sized  onions,  four  or  five  green  chillies,  and  chop 
them  very  small,  and  mix  all  well  together,  then  add  one 
spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce,  one  of  Harvey,  and  a  large 
spoonful  of  mustard,  two  of  mushroom  catsup,  some  black 
•pepper  and  salt,  with  three  spoonfuls  of  sweet  oil ;  mix 
the  whole. 

Ois. — ^When  green  chillies  are  not  to  be  had,  red  pep- 
per must  be  substituted;  it  is  an  excellent  relish  with 
bread  and  butter  just  before  the  cloth  is  removed. 

Take    a  portion  of  cold    boiled    fish,  with  a 

Imitatum       little  roe  if  procurable,   cut  it  up  in  small  slices, 

lobster.      with  a  small  white  onion  chopped,  a  few  green 


Digitized  by 


Google 


240  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

chillies^  a  spoonful  of  mustard^  the  yolk  of  a  hard  boiled 
egg  mashed^  some  salt  and  groand  black  pepper,  with  jost 
a  sufficiency  of  vinegar  to  moisten  the  whole,  then  add  two 
or  three  table-spoonfuls  of  cream  or  sweet  oil,  serve  it 
garnished  with  any  green  salad. 

Obs. — The    egg  may   be    omitted,   and  a    little    anchovy 
sauce  added. 

Any  well  roasted  or  boiled  meat,  free  of 
Potted-meat,  fat,  skin  and  gristle  will  answer  for  potting, 
also  fish,  lobsters,  prawns  and  shrimps ;  spiced 
or  salted  meat  is  equally  good;  but  if  the  latter  is  used 
less  salt  is  requisite.  The  meat  must  be  cut  and  minced 
before  it  is  put  into  the  mortar,  and  if  very  diy,  pound 
it  well  .before  you  add  any  butter,  marrow,  or  suet.  If 
fish  is  used  it  must  be  perfectly  fresh  and  seasoned  as  for 
white  meats  with  ground  white  pepper,  mace,  salt  and 
cayenne;  if  hare  or  other  brown  meat,  a  small  quantity 
of  salt,  cloves  with  black  pepper  may  be  added;  cover  it 
over  with  melted  butter,  marrow  or  suet,  the  last  is  pre- 
ferable ;  when  properly  prepared  it  will  keep  many  days. 

Should  always  be  made  fresh,  otherwise  they 
Sandwickee  get  soon  dry.  It  is  necessary  that  the  bread 
be  new,  and  if  required  expressly  for  the  pur- 
pose, made  in  a  mould  that  the  crumb  may  be  dose,  and 
the  crust  rasped.  It  is  essential  also  to  cut  the  bread 
neatly  with  a  sharp  knife ;  if  the  bread  is  made  round  aad 
long,  the  crust  is  left  upon  it  and  rasped.  YPlien  you  cut 
it  have  one  slice  rested  close  against  the  other,  upright^ 
that  it  may  not  dry,  and  be  careful  always  to  take  the 
pieces  of  bread  which  fit  one  another  precisely ;  open,  and 
insert  whatever  the  sandwiches  are  to  be  composed  of,  and 
dose  them  nicely  together;  they  may  also  be  cut  thin 
and  in  squares,  or  as  fancy  directs,  and  placed  one  upon 
another  to  prevent  their  getting  hard  and  dry;  serve  in 
a  napkin,  silver  or  China  plate,  and  keep  a  cover  over 
them  until  wanted. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKEKT.  241 

OA*.— Whatever  meat  is  used  must  be  carefully  trim- 
med from  every  bit  of  skin,  gristle,  sinews,  &c.  The  ma- 
terials for  making  sandwiches  are  cold  and  potted  meats, 
fish,  game,  poultry,  potted  shrimps  and  prawns,  potted 
cheese,  ham  and  tongue,  anchovy  and  herring  paste,  paste 
diavolo,  sausages,  bechamel,  hard  eggs  with  pounded  cheese 
.  and  butter,  olive  force-meats,  zest,  mustard,  pepper,  salt, 
and   bread. 

Cut  very  nice  thin   slices    of    bread   crust. 
Anchovy  and  cover  it  with    anchovy,   butter,     and   lay 

Sandwiches,  over    another   thin    slice,  press  together,   and 
cut  it  in   squares. 

Stone  and  pound  some  olives  either  with  olive 

OUve  Sand-      oil  or  butter ;  if  they  have  been  simply  pound- 

taiches.  ed,  butter  the  bread  and    spread   it  over  it, 

or  fry  some  slices  in  olive  oil  light  crisp  but 

not  hard,  and   spread  the   olives  or    lay  them    in  patches. 

One  pound    of   undressed  beef,   tender  and 
Meat  for         free  fifom  sinew ;  beat  in  a  mortar  with  two 
Sandwich*    eggs,  a  little    salt,   pepper^   and   nutmeg;   put 
in   a   mould  ;  let   it  simmer  one   hour. 

A   slice  of  ham,  salt   beef,   or  tongue  laid 
A  common  neatly    between    two    slices    of    bread    and 

Sandwich.        butter  ;   mustard,  and  chopped  green  chillies 
may  be  added. 

May  either  be  made  of  potted  shrimps  or 
Shrimp  Sand-  butter ;  butter  the  bread  and  arrange  the 
wichee.  shrimps,  press  together  and  cut  them  neat- 
ly. Oyster  and  lobster  butter  make  ele- 
gant sandwiches,  which  may  be  made  to  every  taste.  Egg 
butter  answers  well  with  minced  or  pounded  anchovies. 
Fish  sandwiches  are  the  lightest ;  sprinkle  them  with  an- 
chovy essence. 

ol 


Digitized  by 


Google 


S42  INDIAN    DOHISTIC   SCONOMY 

Mix  in   a   mortar  any  kind  of  cheese  with 
JVelsA  galli'     butter,    mustard,     wine,     and   any    flavoured 
maufry,         vinegar  ;  this  makes   excellent  zests  or   sand* 
wiches. 

Cut  a  slice  of  bread  about  half  an  inch 
WeUh  rabbit,   thick,   pare     off    the  crust,   and     toast    it  on  « 

both  sides  so  as  just  to  brown  it  without 
making  it  hard  ;  cut  a  slice  of  good  mellow  cheese,  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick  but  not  quite  the  size  of  the  bread ;  pare 
off  the  rind  and  lay  it  on  the  toasted  bread  in  a  cheese 
toaster,  carefully  watch  it  that  it  does  not  burn,  and  stir 
it  to  prevent  a  pellicle  forming  on  the  surface,  or  toast 
it  with  a  salamander. 

Pick  off  all  the  bits  of  meat  from  a  ham 
E&sence  of         bone  ;  pound  it ;  break  the  bone,  and  put  both 
Aam.  into  a  saucepan  together,  ^  with  nearly  half  a 

pint  of  water  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  ; 
simmer  gently  for  some  time,  stirring  it  occasionally  ;  then 
add  a  pint  of  good  beef  gravy  and  black  pepper  ;  continue 
to  simmer  it  until  it  be  well  flavoured  with  the  herbs  ; 
strain  and  keep  it  for    improving  rich  gravies  and  sauces. 

Brandy   or  proof  spirit  two    wine  glasses 

Celery  essence,     or   quarter  of  a  pint,    celery  seed    bruised 

half  an    ounce,   let  it  steep  for  a  fortnight. 

Oi«.— A  few  drops  will    immediately    flavour  a    pint  of 
soup. 

Take  fine  fresh  oysters  ;  wash  the  shells  per- 
OyeUr  e»-        fectly  clean ;   open  and    wash    them  in  their 
eeneep  own  liquor  ;   skim  it ;   pound  them  in  a  marble 

mortar  ;  to   a  pint  of  oysters   add  a  pint  of 
sherry   or    other  white  wine  ;   boil   them  up  ;  add  an  ounce 
of  salt,  two  drachms  of  pounded   mace  and   one  of  cayenne 
let  it  just  boil  up  again,  skim  it,  and  rub  through  a  sieve 
when  cold,  bottle  it  and  cork   it  tight. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  S4S 

Obi. — ^Thc  salt  and  spices  may  be  pounded  with  the 
oysters ;  this  is  an  agreeable  addition  to  the  flour  of  white 
sauce  and  made  dishes :  a  little  brandy  in  addition  will 
keep  it   good  for  a  considerable  time  longer* 

Sprinkle  salt  over  the  mushrooms;  let 

Euenee of  mutA'     them  remain  for  three  hours;  then  mash 

roami.  them;  next  day    strain    off   the  liquor; 

put  it    into  a  stewpan^    and    reduce  to 

one  half. 

04#. — ^It  will  not  keep  long  having  neither  spice  nor 
wine— put  in  small  bottles,   and  cork  it  tight. 

For    immediate    use    may   be   prepared    by 

Lenumpeel,     rubbing   the   lemon   with    loaf  sugar    till  the 

whole    of    the    yellow    is  taken    up  by    the 

sugar;   scrape  off  the  surface,  press  it  hard  down,  cover  it 

very  dose,  and  it  will  keep  for  some  time. 

Or,  best  oil  of  lemon  one  drachm,  strong  rectified  spi- 
rit two  ounces  introduced  by  degrees  until  the  spirit  com- 
pletely mixes  with  the  oil. 

Obs. — ^It  will  be  found  a  tolerably  fair  substitute  for 
fresh  lemon  peel. 

Break  four  eggs  into  a  dish  with  a  little 
Omelette  plain,  pepper  or  chopped  green  chillies,  a  small 
quantity  of  fine  salt,  with  a  tea-spoonful 
of  milk  or  water  merely  to  dissolve '4t;  beat  the  whole 
well  in  a  froth;  then  put  a  table-spoonful  of  butter  or 
ghee  into  frying  pan;  when  it  is  hot,  throw  the  eggs 
into  the  pan,  holding  it  a  little  distance  from  the  fire. 
keep  shaking  it  to  prevent  its  burning  and  sticking  to  the 
bottom  of  the  pan ;  it  takes  about  five  minutes  to  dress ; 
gather  up  one  side  with  a  knife,  and  roll  it  equally 
before  you    dish   it. 

Obs. — Chopped  parsley,  onions,  minced  ham  or  kidneys 
may  be  added,  and  a  variety  given  by  grated  hung  beef, 
dried  tongue,    anchovy    paste,  sauce,   or    chopped  oysters. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


244  INDIAN   DOMfSnC    ECONOMY 

Beat  up  the  eggs  with  a  very  little 
Omelette  sweet,  salt ;  put  them  into  the  pan  as  last 
directed,  and  sprinkle  fine  pounded  sugar 
over  while  frying;  place  the  omelette  on  a  dish,  cover  it 
over  with  sugar,  and  brown  it  with  a  salamander;  trim 
the  edges,   roll  up  neatly,  and   serve. 

Prepare  your  omelette    as  first  directed; 

Omelette  aux        mince   up  the  kidney   of   a  loin   of  veal  or 

Rognons.  mutton  that  has  been  roasted,   and  mix  with 

the  omelette;    season    well  with  salt,   and 

fry   it   nicely. 

Obe. — You  may   season  it  higher  with   a  couple  of  chop- 
ped anchovy,  fish,   or  some  essence. 

Make     some    small  omelettes  of    two 
Petitee  omelettes      eggs    each;     mince   up   some   ham,    and 
au  Jaifnhon.  put  in   a  spoonful  to  each  before  rolling. 

Ohe. — If  the  ham   is  salt  do  not  add  any   more. 

Break  up  six  eggs  separating  the  whites  from 
Omelette  the  yolks ;  beat  up  the  former  and  strain  them ; 
souffle,  add  to  the  yolks  two  table- spoonfuls  of  dried 
pounded  sugar,  with  a  little  lemon  juice  or 
orange  flower  water,  and  work  them  well  together. 
Whip  the  whites  into  a  froth,  and  mix  them  with  the 
rest ;  put  some  butter  or  ghee  into  the  frying  pan :  add 
the  omelette,  taking  care  it  does  not  burn ;  when  made, 
sprinkle  a  little  pounded  sugar  over  it,  and  put  into 
the  oven  to  rise,  or  glaze  it  of  a  fine  colour  with  a 
salamander. 

Slice  some  cheese ;  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
Toasted  cheese,  pan  with  a  little  butter  and  milk  ;  stir  it 
over  the  fire  until  the  cheese  is  dissolved ; 
beat  up  an  egg  well,  and  add  to  it;  place  it  upon  toast 
or  on  a  dish,  and  brown  it  before  the  fire  or  with  a 
heated    shovel. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  245 

Put  two  table-spoonfuls  of  grated  cheese 
Stewed  cheese,  into  a  dish ;  beat  up  an  egg,  and  strain 
it  into  four  table-spoonfuls  of  cream ;  put 
a  table^spoonfol  of  butter  into  a  small  saucepan^  and  let 
it  melt;  then  stir  in  the  other  ingredients^  and  boil  until 
well  mixed;  serve  it  hot  witR  toast^  or  brown  it  in  a 
patty  pan. 

Make  some  brioche  paste  ;  have  ready  some 
Brioches  au  parmesan  cheese  or  Swiss^  which  cut  into 
fromage*  small  squares,  and   throw  into  the  paste  while 

it  is  soft,  and    bake   it   in   an   oven. 

Thicken  one-fourth  of  a  pint  of  cream  or 
Fondeau.  milk  with  a  little  arrowroot  to  a  moderate  con- 
sistence>  then  add  four  ounces  of  finely  pound- 
ed cheese,  and  mix  it  all  well  together  with  the  beaten 
yolk  of  two  eggs ;  then  beat  the  whites  to  a  froth  and 
add  them  to  the  rest;  line  a  mould  with  white  paper, 
pour  in  the  fondeau  and  bake  it  in  a  fast  oven,  or  divide 
it  into   small  paper  cases,  and  fill  them  three-fourths. 

Take  four  table-spoonfuls  of  Swiss  cheese, 
Fondeaus  en  two  of  parmesan,  a  little  cream  cheese ; 
caisses,  pound  these  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  pepper 
and  salt;  then  mix  in  four  eggs,  one  at  a 
time,  and  fill  small  patty  pans  or  paper  cases  with  the 
mixture,  and  bake  in  an  oven.  They  should  have  a  nice 
brown   appearance   when  served. 

Take  equal    quantities    of    flour,    butter,    and 

Eamaiin,    pounded   or  grated  cheese,  with   an  egg   to  each 

Indian,     spoonful   of  the   otiier   ingredients ;   mix  all    well 

together,   and  bake  in    moulds   or    cases  as    the 

last ;   serve   with  toast,   made  mustard,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Half  a  pound  of    cheese,    half   a    pound    of 

Ramakin,     bread,   four   ounces  of  butter,  three    eggs,  a  gill 

i  of  cream,   and   a  little  salt ;  pound   all  well  to- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


W6  INDIAN   DOMBSTIC  ICONOMT  AND   COOKSRT. 

getker^     and     pufc    into    paper    cases;     twleve    or    fifteen 
minutes   will    bake  them. 

Beat  three  ounces  of  parmesan  or  any  other 
Another,  cheese  in  a  mortar,  and  mix  in-  by  degrees  half 
a  pint  of  cream,  two  ounces  of  butter,  four 
yolks  and  one  white  of  egg,  rub  them  together,  and 
leave  them  mixed  for  some  time;  fill  it  into  paper  cases. 
They  may  be  baked  in  a  Dutch  oven. 

Boll  out  rather  thin  from  six  to  eight 
Jla  Sefton.  ounces  of  puff  paste,  handle  it  lightly,  spread 
it  out  on  the  dresser,  and  sprinkle  over  it 
some  rasped  parmesan  cheese;  then  fold  the  paste  in 
three,  spread  it  again,  and  sprinkle  more  cheese  over  it; 
give  what  is  called,  two  turns  and  a  half,  and  sprinkle  it 
each  time  with  the  cheese;  cut  about  eighteen  ramakina 
with  a  plain  round  cutter,  spread  over  again  some  rasped 
parmesan,  and  put  them  into  the  oven  and  bake  for  fifteen 
minutes;  and  serve  very  hot  in  a  napkin. 

Break  four  ounces  of  maccaroni  into 
Maccaroni  and  lengths  of  about  a  couple  of  inches,  wash 
Cheese,  plain,  it  in  water,  and  then  boil  it  in  white  broth 
or  milk,  with  a  little  salt  until  tender; 
rub  up  in  a  mortar  four  ounces  of  dry  double  Gloucester 
or  Chedder  cheese,  and  add  to  it  the  well  beaten  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  a  couple  of  spoonfuls  of  cream  with  four  of  the 
broth  the  maccaroni  has  been  boiled  in ;  butter  a  dish 
large  enough  to  contain  the  whole,  in  which  place  the  macca- 
roni with  the  cheese  custard  poured  over  it,  and  bake 
in   a  quick  oven. 

Boil  the  maccaroni  as  last  directed,  and 
Another.  when  tender  drain  it  and  lay  it  on  a  dish, 
placing  butter  and  some  grated  cheese  over  it; 
continue  this  for  two  or  three  layers  and  then  cover  the 
whole  lastly  with  cheese  and  butter,  and  bake  it  carefully; 
when  the  cheese  has  become  soft,  remove  it  from  ihe 
oven  and    serve. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTER    XIII. 


PICKLES  AND  CHUTNETS. 

Take  the  young  shoots  just  as  they 
Bamboo  piclle.  appear  above  the  ground^  cut  and  slice 
them  in  lengths  of  half  an  inch^  sprinkle 
them  with  salt  for  a  day  or  two,  then  put  them  with 
sliced  ginger^  some  corns  of  black  pepper,  a  few  cloves  of 
garlic  into  a  bottle  or  jar,  fill  up  with  vinegar  and  set 
in  the  sun  for  a  week;  if  desired  to  be  hot  add  green 
chillies^   or   cayenne  salt. 

Oh9, — The    young  shoots    of    bamboo    form    a    principal 
ingredient    in    the    Chinese    preserve    called    Chow    Chow. 

Wash  it  perfectly  clean;   do   not  cufc   off  any 
Topiekle      of    the  root-fibres    or    it  will    bleed,   or  rather 
Beet.  lose    its    colour;    put    it    into   a  sufficiency  of 

water  to  boil;  when  the  skin  will  come  off,  it 
is  done  enough;  take  it  out,  and  lay  it  upon  a  cloth  to 
cool ;  rub  off  the  skin ;  cut  it  into  thick  slices  and  put  it 
into  a  jar,  and  pour  over  it  cold  vinegar  prepared  in 
the  following  manner:  Boil  a  quart  of  vinegar  with  one 
ounce  of  whole  black  pepper  and  the  same  quantity  of 
diy    ginger.    Cover  the  jar  closely   with  a  good  cork. 

Select  goody  firm,  hard,  red  cabbage;  cut 
Cabbage,  into  thin  slices;  sprinkle  plenty  of  salt  over 
them,  and  put  on  a  sieve  or  basket  to  drain 
for  twelve  hours;  then  put  into  a  jar  or  wide-mouthed 
bottle  and  pour  over  it  cold  vinegar  thus  prepared :  To 
a  quart  of  good    vinegar    add  two    ounces  of  dry  ginger 


Digitized  by 


Google 


248  INDIAN    DOMESTTC   ECONOMY 

merely  broken,  half  an  ounce  of  black  pepper  whole,  with 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves  and  a  little  mace;  boil 
these   spices   in   the   vinegar,   and  let   it   cool. 

Obs. — A  good,  hard,  white  cabbage  will  answer  as  well 
as  the  red ;  and  if  you  wish  to  colour  it,  take  a  red  beet 
that  as  been  parboiled  only,  cut  it  into  slices^  and  boil 
them  in   the  vinegar. 

There  is  no  occasion  to  place  this  pickle  in  the  sun^  as 
it  will  only  make  the  cabbage  soft. 

Cut  your  heads  of  cauliflower  into    moder- 

Cauliflower.     ately   sized   sprigs;   sprinkle   it   well   with  salt, 

and   prepare  the    same  as  for  pickled  cabbage. 

'  Pour  boiling  strong  salt  pickle  upon  them 
Gherkins  to  and  leave  them  till  next  day ;  wash  out  the 
pickle.  jars    with   vinegar^  and    drain  and    wipe  every 

gherkin  separately;  pack  them  into  the  jars, 
and  boil  some  good  vinegar  with  mace,  whole  pepper, 
horseradish,  mustard,  and  salt ;  pour  it  boiling  over  them, 
and  cover;  let  them  stand  till  next  day.  If  they  are 
not  sufficiently  green,  boil  the  vinegar  again  within  the 
fortnight,   aud   put   them  up. 

The   cabbage  of  the  cocoanut  tree  or  the 

Cocoanutcab'        head   sprout,    when  it  can  be  procured  may 

bage  pickle.         be  cut  into    slices,  and  pickled  exactly    as 

you   would  cabbage — the    whole  is   perfectly 

white  and  resembles   a  fresh   almond   in   taste. 

Clean    and    slice    any    quantity    of    green 

Green  ginger    ginger ;   sprinkle   it  with    salt ;   let  it  remain 

pickle.  a   few   hours;   then  put  it  into   a  jar  or   bot- 

tle^   and  pour   boiling    vinegar    over  it;  cork 

it  up  when   cool. 

Take     twenty-five    lemons    or    limes,    cut 

Lemon  pickle,     them  in  two    parts    cross  ways,    squeeze   the 

juice    into  .a  basin,    and    mix    with  it   two 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKBRT.  249 

ounces  of  white  salt ;  then  put  it  into  a  bottle  and  cork 
it  tight.  Sprinkle  over  the  lemon  or  lime  peel,  abont 
two  ounces  of  pounded  salt,  and  let  them  remain  six 
hours;  then  dry  them  in  the  sun  till  hard  enough,  for 
three  or  four  days.  Take  two  ounces  of  mustard  seeds 
cleansed  of  all  the  husks,  four  ounce  of  green  ginger 
well  dressed,  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices,  with  four 
ounces  of  green  chillies ;  put  one  bottle  of  good  vinegar 
in  a  saucepan,  and  mix  with  it  one  ounce  of  ground  tur- 
meric ;  boil  these  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  over  a 
slow  fire ;  after  it  is  boiled,  mix  the  lemon  juice,  and 
strain  it  in  a  basin;  then  add  to  it  all  the  above  arti- 
cles, mix  well  together,  and  put  in  a  pickle  bottle ;  cork 
it  well ;  keep  it  in  the  sun  three  or  four  days.  If  the 
vinegar  is  found  not  to  be  sufficient,  add  a  little  more  to 
it,  and  let  it  renfain  a  fortnight,  when  it  will  be  ready 
for   use. 

Soil  the  lemons  or  limes  with  the  hand 
Lime  jnekU  well  upon  a  stone  or  board,  and  throw  them 
{haHveJ^  in  some  water ;  then  put  them  in  an  earthen 
vessel,  and  sprinkle  over  with  fine  salt ;  let 
them  remain  for  two  or  three  ^  days,  turning  them  occa- 
sionally; whan  the  lemons  have  become  soft,  expose  them 
to  the  son  on  a  cloth ;  after  they  appear  ripe,  steep 
them  either  in  vinegar  or    lemon  juice. 

Take  fifty  ripe  limes;  split  them  into  four 
Amdker.  parts   half   way  down,  and  sprinkle  them  well 

with  salt;  let  them  remain  for  twenty-four 
hours,  turning  them  two  or  three  times ;  then  place  them 
in  a  stone  jar  with  sliced  green  ginger  (four  ounces), 
some  pounded  chillies,  and  ground  mustard  seed ;  grind 
up  one  ounce  of  turmeric  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  oil, 
which  mix  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  vinegar  to  cover 
the  limes;  dose  the  vessel  tightly  down,  and  place  in  the 
sun  for  a  few  days. 

04*.— Oil  may  be  used  instead  of  vinegar,  or  they  may 

Hi 


Digitized  by 


Google 


2bO  INDIAN   BOlCISnC  ICONOMT 

be  pickled   in  lime  juice  first     boiled^    with    tbe  turmeric 
added   afterwards. 

Divide  the   mangoes  into  four  parts    ra- 
Mangoe  pickle    ther  more  than  half  way   down,  having  the 
in  oiL  bottom  whole  ;  scoop    out  the  kernel ;   stuff 

the  space  in  each  mangoe  as  full  as  it 
will  admit  of,  with  mustard  seed,  cayenne  pepper,  sliced 
ginger,  sliced  garlic,  and  grated  horseradish ;  bind  each 
mangoe  with  thread;  put  them  into  a  quantity  of  oil 
sufficient  to  immerse  the  whole.  Manner  of  preparing  the 
mustard  seed,  &c*  &c« — ^For  fifty  mangoes  use  five  seers 
of  mustard  seed  ;  husk  it,  steep  it  in  water  for  twenty- 
four  hours,  removing  the  water  twice  or  fhrice  during  the 
time,  dry  it  afterwards  for  two  days,  reduce  it  into  coarse 
powder ;  mix  with  it  the  ginger,  garlic,  cayenne  pepper, 
and  grated  horseradish ;  make  the  whole  into  a  paste  with 
vinegar ;  stuff  the  mangoes  with  it ;  reserve  a  fourth  part 
of  the  mustard  powder  to  mix  with  the  oil  into  which 
the  mangoes  are  to  be  inmiersed*  The  garlic,  ginger,  and 
horseradish  are  to  be  steeped  in  water,  and  allowed  to 
dry  for  a   day  previous  to  being  used. 

Take  one  hundred  fine  nnripe  mangoes  ;  peel 
Mangoe  and  partly  divide  them  through  the  shell,   so 

picile.  as  to  remove  the  seed  from  the  inside  ;  sprinkle 

them  well  with  salt,  and  let  them  lie  in  a 
large  tub  or  other  vessel  for  twenty-four  hours.  In  the 
meantime  take  two  bottles  of  vinegar,  and  four  ounces  df 
ground  turmeric,  boil  this  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  on 
a  slow  fire,  then  remove.  Have  ready  one  seer  of  dry 
chillies,  one  seer  of  green  ginger  cut  and  sliced,  and  one 
pound  of  mustard  seed  cleaned  of  all  husk,  with  four 
ounces  of  garlic;  mix  these  ingredients  with  the  mangoes^ 
and  stuff  some  inside ;  then  pour  the  vinegar  and  turmeric 
over  the  whole*  Should  the  vinegar  not  be  sufficient  to 
cover  the  n^angoes,  more  must  be  added  to  fill  up  the  jar 
or  cask« 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKBRT.  251 

Take  one  hundred  unripe  green  mangoes^ 
Oilpieile,  slitting  them  lengthways^  partly  through  the 
another,  stone,  so  as  to  be  able  to  remove  all  the  seed; 
sprinkle  them  well  over  with  salt,  putting  some 
inside,  and  lay  them  in  the  sun  for  a  few  hours  daily ; 
keep  them  in  salt  three  or  four  days;,  then  prepare  the 
following  ingredients:  Turmeric,  green  ginger,  mustard 
seed,  and  garlic,  as  directed  for  pickling,  with  the  except 
tion  of  the  turmeric,  which  is  not  to  be  boiled,  but 
ground  and  mixed  with'  sweet  oil  sufficient  to  cover  the 
mangoes;  the  oil  generally  used  is  jinjely  or  mustard 
seed  oil. 

P^l  the  mangoes,  and  divide  them  into 
Jiangoe  halves,  clearing  them  of  their  stones;  sprinkle 
piekle,  them  well  with  salt,  and  put  them  in  the  sun 
for  three  or  four  days;  after  which  wipe  them 
well  with  a  cloth;  then  stuff  them  with  some  garlic, 
and  green  ginger  slicedt  also  some  garlic,  mustard  seed 
and  chillies;  tie  them  up  with  thread,  and  preserve  either 
in  vinegar  or  oil,  and  keep  in  a  closed  vessel  in  the  sun 
for  some   days. 

Take  unripe  green  mangoes ;  peel  and   cut  into 

Dried  slices ;  sprinkle  them  over  with  salt,   and   put 

mangoes,    in  the  sun  to  dry :   when  prepared,   make  them 

into  balls  or  rolls   of  a  moderate  size,  and  hang 

them  in  a  dry  place  for  use. 

Take  green  mangoes ;  peel  and  cut  into  thin 
Another  slices;  boil  with  a  small  quantity  of  water 
way.  until  quite  smooth ;  then  spread  the  pulp  on  a 
clean  cloth,  and  put  out  in  the  sun  to  dry; 
when  required  for  use,  all  that  is  necessary  is  to  cut  off 
a  piece,  and  soak  it  in  a  little  water;  the  pulp  in  this 
way  may  be  used  for  mangoe  fooL 

Put    the    smallest    that    can  be    got  into 

Muehrooms.    spring   water,    and  rub  them  with  a  piece  of 

new  flannel  dipped  in  salt ;    throw  .  them  into 


Digitized  by 


Google 


<5S  INDIAN    DOHBSTIC  ECONOMY 

cold  water  aa  they  are  cleaned,  which  will  make  them 
keep  their  colour  ;  next  put*  them  into  a  saacepan  with 
a  handful  of  salt  upon  them;  cover  them  dose,  and 
set  them  over  the  fire  four  or  five  minutes,  or  till  the 
heat  draws  the  liquor  from  thetai.  Next  lay  them  be- 
twixt two  dry  cloths  till  they  are  cold;  put  them  into 
glass  bottles,  and  fill  them  up  with  distilled  vinegar,  with 
a  blade  of  mace  and  a  tea*spoonM  of  sweet  oil  in 
every  bottle ;  cork  them  up  close,  and  set  them  in  a  dry 
cool  place.  As  a  substitute  for  distilled  vinegar  use  white 
wiae  vinegar. 

Sprinkle    them   with  salt,  and  let  them 

NoiterHum  lie    for  a  day  or  two;  dry  them,  and  put 

seeth  to  into  a  jar;  Boil    some  mace  with  vin^ar 

pieile.  and    ginger,    and  pour  the    liquor  boiling 

hot    upon    them;     cover    them  close,   and 

put  them  in  the  sun   for  two  or  three  days. 

06i» — ^The  leaves   are  used    as  salad. 

Take  any  quantity  of  small  white  onions; 
Onion  fichle.  lay  them  on  a  sieve  or  basket,  and  sprinkle 
them  well  with  salt;  let  them  remain  for 
twenty-four  hours  to  drain;  put  them  into  wide-mouthed 
bottles  with  a  few  slices  of  ginger,  and  a  blade  or  two  of 
mace;  fill  up  with  good  vinegar;  and  if  you  desire  to 
impart  a  warm  flavour,  add  either  green  chillies  or 
chillie  vinegar.  They  may  or  may  not  be  put  out  in  the 
sun  for  a  day   or  two. 

Take  pyroligneous    acid  one    pint,  three 
Acid  of  lemon,      tea^spoonfnls  of  pounded  sugar,  which  dis- 
artifieial.         solve  in  the  acid,   and  add  thirty  drops  of 
quintessence  of  lemcm  peel. 

Obi. — The    vinegar  may  be    flavoured    by  infoiing  lime 
peel  in  it. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AKO   COOKBBT.  258 

Malhroom  catsup  a    pint    and  a  half,    walnut 
Coratch.    do.  four  ounces,  soy   and   chillie  vinegar   of  each 
one  ounce,  essence  of    anchovy  a    tea-spoonful. 

Is    made  by  pounding  with    salt,  ripe 

Indian  Coratch,      capsicums  that  have  been  a  little  roasted ; 

or  eAUUe  ru9i,     add  as  much  water  as    will    make    any 

quantity  of  the  former  you  please  into  a 

liquid   the  thickness   of   milk ;  rub   the    whole    through  a 

doth,   and  reject  the   residue    of  capsicums. 

06s. — A   little   wine   added   makes  it  keep  a  long  time  : 
a  few   drops  impart   a    peculiar     relish  to    soup  or   stews. 

Is  made   by  pounding    perfectly  ripe  and   dry 

Cayenne    birds's-eye   chillies   or    capsicums;  it    should    be 

pepper      sifted  and  kept  in   a  well  corked  bottle,  to  ex- 
clude damp. 

Put    half  an  ounce  of  the    above  powder  into 
Sssenee.    half  a  pint  of  wine  or  brandy,  let  it  steep  for  a 
fortnight,  and  pour    it  off  clear. 

Take  two  ounces  of  finely  powdered  dried 
Cayenne  sail,  bird's-eye  chillies  or  capsicums,  and  mix 
them  well  in  a  mortar  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  clean  salt ;  add  a  glass  of  white  wine  and  two 
of  water;  put  it  into  a  corked  bottle,  and  place  in  the  sun 
for  a  week  or  more  daily;  then  strain  the  whole  through 
a  fine  piece  of  muslin;  pour  the  liquor  into  a  plate,  and 
evaporate  it  either  by  a  stove  or  in  the  sun;  you  will  then 
have  soluble  crystals  of  cayenne  and  salt;  a  much  finer 
article  than  the   cayenne  powder. 

Hack  pepper  is  the  fruit  of  a  creeping 

Pepper,  black,     plant   indigenous  to  India ;  the  berries  are 

gathered    before    they    are    ripe,    and    are 

dried  in  the    sun,  from    whence  they    become    black  and 

corrugated  on  the  surface. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


254  INDIAN  DOVSSnC   KCONOHT 

Is  the  fruit  of  the  same   plant  gathered   after 
Wiite      it  is  fully   ripe,  and  freed    of  its    external   coats 
by    maceration    in    water;    it    is     smooth  on  the 
surface,  and  less  pungent   than  the   black   pepper. 

Fill    a     wide-mouthed    bottle     with     the 
Basil  vinegar*    leaves  of  fresh   green   basil,  and   cover  them 
with  vinegar ;   stop   the   bottle  well,  and  put 
out  in  the  sun  for  eight  or  ten  days,   shaking  it  occasion- 
ally; strain  and  decant  it* 

Oh. — ^This  is  a  very  agreeable  addition  to  mock  turtle, 
soups  and  sauces,  and  to  the  mixture  usually  made  for 
salads.  Green  mint,  chervil,  and  burnet  are  aU  made  in 
the    same  way. 

Cayenne  pepper  a  tea-spoonful,  a  pint  of 
Camp  vinegar,  vinegar,  soy  two  table-spoonfuls,  walnut 
catsup  four  spoonfuls,  six  anchovies  chop* 
ped  fine,  and  a  clove  of  garlic;  steep  all  for  a  fortnight 
in  the  sun,  shaking  the  botfcles  occasionally;  strain 
through  a  tamis,  and  put  into  very  small  bottles  corked 
as  tight  as  possible. 

Take  ripe  cucumbers;  cut  them  in  slices. 
Cucumber  .  and  lay  them  on  a  sieve  or  bamboo  basket 
vinegar,  in  the  sun,  and  sprinkle  them  well  with  salt; 
when  the  water  is  all  drained  off,  add  an 
equal  quantity  by  weight,  of  white  wine  vinegar,  and 
some  corns  of  pepper;  let  it  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,   and  bottle  when   cool. 

Pare  eight  or  ten  cucumbers;  cut  them  into 
Another,  thin  slices;  add  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  spoonful 
of  white  pepper  coarsely  ground,  and  a  spoonful 
of  salt;  put  them  into  a  jar  that  can  be  well  closed,  or 
other  vessel,  and  pour  over  them  a  bottle  of  vinegar  and 
let  it  stand  ten  or  twelve    days;  then  strain  and  bottle; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKIRT.  SS5 

little  whole  pepper  into  the  mouth  of  each  bottle, 
tightly. 

it  has  the  same  flavour  as  bornet  vinegar. 

.sse3.  They  are   an  excellent  digestive,  and  form  an 

ornamental  small   salad   for  the  table. 

Dry  and  pound  one  ounce  of  the  seed,  such 
Creis  as  is   sown  in  gardens;   pour  upon  it  a   quart 

Vin^ar,  of  vinegar,   and  let  it  steep  in  the  sun  ten  or 
twelve  days,   shaking  it  occasionally. 

Obin — ^This  is  strongly   flavoured    with  the   cress,   and  is 
usefol  for  salads  and  cold  meat. 

Cayenne  or              Steep  in  a  stoppered  bottle  as  many  ripe 

ciilli  vinegar^  -  or    green    chillies    as    it  will  hold ;    cover 

ted  cr  green,     them    with    vinegar     for    a  fortnight    or 
more,  then  strain  it. 

Peel    and    chop     two    ounces    of    garlic ; 
Garlic  vinegar,  pour  on  them  a  quart  of  white  wine  vine- 
gar;  stop  the   jar    close,    and    let  it  steep 
ten  days,   shaking  it  well    every    day;  then    pour    off  the 
liquor  into  small  bottles. 

Ohf. — "  Be  careful  not  to  use  too  much  of  this :  a  few 
drops  of  it  will  give  a  pint  of  gravy  a  sufficient  smack 
of  the  garlic,  the  flavour  of  which  when  slight  and  well 
blended,  is  one  of  the  finest  we  have;  when  used  in  excess 
it  is  the  most  offensive.  The  best  way  to  use  garlic  is 
to  send  up  some  of  this  vinegar  in  a  cruet,  and  let  the 
company  flavour  their  own  sauce  as  they  like.*' — Retnarks 
by   Kitchener. 

Pick  the  leaves  off  the  stalks,  and  dry  them 

Tarragon      a  little    before    the    fire    or   sun;    fill    a  wide- 

vinegar.    mouthed  bottle  with  them,  and   cover  with  the 

best  vinegar;   set  it  in  the  sun  for  a  fortnight, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


t66  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

and  strain  through  a  flannel  bag ;  put  into  small  bottles^ 
and  cork  them   carefully. 

To  each  quart  of  water  put  a  pound  of 
Vinegar.  coarse  brown  sugar;  boil  them  together^  taking 
off  the  scum;  when  that  ceases  to  rise,  pour 
off  the  liquid  into  a  suitable  vessel;  when  it  is  nearly 
oooly  add  sufficient  toddy  to  make  it  rise;  in  twenty-four 
hours  pour  the  whole  into  a  barrel,  and  expose  it  to  the 
sun  for  thi^e  months :  the  barrel,  must  not  be  bunged 
up — ^place  a  tile  or  any  thing  else,  fit  for  the  purpose, 
over  the  bung  to  exclude  dust  and  insects;  when  it  is 
clear  and  ready  for  use,  bottle  it  carefully.  The  longer 
it  is  kept  in  bottles  the  better  it  will  be. 

Is  made  by  exposing    to    the  sun  in    a 

Toddy  vinegar    similar    manner   the      sweet    juice      drawn 

from    the    cocoanut,    palmyra    and    Sindee 


Dissolve  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
WhUe  vinegar*  honey  in  rain  or  distilled  water;  put  it 
into  a  seven  gallon  cask  with  a  quart  of 
white  spirit;  shake  it  well;  then  fill  up  the  cask  with 
rain  water,  and  put  it  out  in  the  sun  to  stand  where  it 
cannot  be  shaken  and  let  it  remain  five  months,  and  the 
vinegar  will  be  made.  Drain  it  off  by  piercing  the  lower 
part  of  the  cask,  and  let  it  run  until  the  concretion, 
which  is  formed  at  the  top,  and  is  termed  ''mother  of 
vinegar,''  begins  to  appear.  You  may  then  commence  the 
process  again  without  cleaning  the  cask,  as  the  remaining 
sediment  hastens  the  acetous  fermentation,  which  will  be 
complete  in   a  shorter   time   than  the  first. 

CHUTNIES. 

Take  four  small    brinjalls,    roast  them, 

Brinjall,  plain,    and  take  off  their  skin  and   seeds ;   fry   a 

table^spoonful  of  dhall  with  three  or  four 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKEKT.  257 

dry  chillies  iu   a  little  ghee,  adding    a    sufficient    quantity 
of  salt;  mash  and  mix  the  whole  together. 

Prepare  the  brinjalls  as  in  the  last  re- 
Brinfall,  icur.  ceipt,  and  then  add  a  table-spoonful  of 
ripe  tamarind  pulp^^witb  six  red  dry  chil- 
liesy  a  tea-spoonful  of  mustard^  and  the  same  of  cummin 
seed  that  has  been  fried  in  ghee ;  ground  together  with 
two  or  three  leaves  of  the  currypak^  and  a  ^rain  or  two 
of  assafoetida. 

^     Obs. — ^The  two  latter  ingredients  may   be  left   out. 

Dissolve  one  seer  of  goar  in  vinegar;  one 
Casimere.  seer  of  green  ginger  sliced,  one  seer  of  garlic, 
*  twelve  chittacks  of  raisins^  four  chittacks  of 
chiUies,  and  half  a  seer  of  mustard  seed ;  all  to  be  pound- 
ed and  mixed  with  five  seers  of  vinegar;  put  into  a  large 
jar,  and  keep  it  out  in   the  sun  for  a  fortnight. 

Boast  four  or  five  large  brinjalls  in 
BrinfoU mtk eggi.  hot  ashes;  take  out  the  inside  and 
mash  it  well  and  mix  with  it  green 
chillies  and  green  ginger  sliced,  a  little  salt,  and  lime 
juice;  then  diop  up  the  yolks  of  the  hard  boiled  eggs, 
and  strew  over   it. 

Take  eight  ounces  of  dried  mangoes. 
Dried  mango*  four  ounces  of  raisins,  four  ounces  of  goar, 
four  ounces  of  green  ginger,  one  ounce  of 
garlic  by  weight;  after  clearing,  dissolve  the  goar  in  a 
little  vinegar>  pound  the  other  ingredients,  and  mix  one 
by  one;   if  not  suffioiently  moist,    add   more  vinegar. 

Boast    four    green    plantains,    and    peel 

Green platUai».    dF   their  skin;     grind  up    a   spoonful    of 

dhall,    four    dry    red    chillies,    and   fry    in 

a   little   ghee;  then  grind    the  whole    together,    adding    a 

latle  salt. 

il 


Digitized  by 


Google 


258  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

Obi. — ^Two   tea-spoonfuls    of   tamarind    pulp   or  the  juice 
of  a  lime  may   be  added,  or  a  little  vinegar. 

Bed  tamarinds  eight  pounds,  fresh  dry 
Med  tamarind,  mangoes  one  pound,  tomata  one  pound, 
dry  chillies  half  a  pound,  green  ginger 
one  pound,  plums  one  pound,  garlic  four  ounces,  mint 
two  ounces,  butter  one  and  a  half  pound,  vinegar  one  bot- 
tle :  these  articles  ari  to  be  well  ground,  then  to  be  mixed 
With  the   vinegar,     and  fried    in  the   butter.  ^^ 

Obs. — ^The  Tomata  may  be  left    out.  - 

Take  half  a  seer  of  red  tamarind  well  cleaned 
Another.  from  the  husks  and  seed,  quarter  of  a  seer  of 
salt,  quarter  of  a  seer  of  kishmises,  quarter 
seer  of  sugar,  three  chittacks  of  chillies,  red  and  dried, 
one  chittack  of  garlic,  a  quarter  seer  of  green  ginger;  the 
whole  must  be  well  ground  and  mixed  with  vinegar 
(without  any  water)   to  the  consistence  of  a   thin  paste. 

Take  one  or  more  large  ripe  tomatas ; 
Bife  Tomata*  strip  off  the  skin;  then  divide  and  remove 
the  seeds  and  juice;  to  the  pulp  that  re- 
mains add  a  little  salt,  as  much  chopped  onion,  cut  very 
fine,  as  is  equal  to  about  one  half  the  tomata  pulp,  a 
table-spoonful  of  vinegar,  a  little  celery  cut  very  fine,  and 
one  or  more  green  chillies,  according  to  taste ;  if  you  desire 
to  make  this  chutney  into  a  salad,  add  a  table-spoonful 
of   thick   cream. 

Oi^f  Potatoes  mashed,  mint  or  kootmere  pounded, 
minced  apple,  pumblenose,  in  fact  almost  any  vegetable 
may  be  made  into  a, chutney  by  adding  chillies,  onions, 
green  ginger,   garlic,  lemon  juice   or  vinegar. 

Take  two  ounces  of  green  ginger;   scrape 

Tamarind  and     off  all  the  rind ;  two  tolahs  weight  of  good 

green  ginger,    tamarind   pulp;    pound    both    together,    or 

grind  on   a  stone  :   then  add  one  masha  of 

salt;     half  a  masha   of  pounded  chillies,   and  one  tolah  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  859 

mustard   seed  which  has  been  roasted  in  a  little  ghee ;  mix 
all    well   together. 

Take    a    pound   of  ripe    tomatas,    one 
Tomata  or  love       pound   of  tamarinds^   four  ounces  of  dry 
apple^  vjith  ior       ginger,  two  ounces  of  red  chillies  pound- 
fnarinds,  ed»  tour   ounces  of  raisins^   one   ounce  of 

garlic,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  one  ounce 
of  salt,  and  half  a  bottle  of  vinegar;  mix  the  tamarinds 
with  the  vinegar  ;  give  them  a  good  boil,  *and  strain ;  pre- 
pare the  tomata  pulp,  raisins,  garlic^  and  ginger  pounded; 
mix  all  well  together,  and  keep  in  small  bottles  in  a  cool 
place. 

Take  a  table-spoonful  of  the  seed ;  parch  it  over 
Till  seed*  the  fire;  then  ppund,  and  add  the  following 
ingredients :  one  clove  of  garlic,  half  a  mode- 
rate sized  onion,  a  few  leaves  of  kootmere,  two  or  three 
green  chillies,  a  little  salt,  and  tamarind  juice ;  pound  the 
whole  together,  or  rub  on  a  stone,  as  curry  stuff  is 
prepared. 

Green    mangoes,    peeled    and    minced 
Mangoe  chuineg,      fine  half  a  seer ;    green  ginger  the  same 
9weeU  two  ounces;    garlic    three  ounces;  dried 

chillies    ground  and   mixed    with  vinegar 
sufScient  to  moisten  it  well  eight  ounces ;  sugar  and   salt  ' 
eight   ounces  of  each;    mix  all   well   together,    put   it  into 
a  jar  or  bottle  cork  close,  keep  out  in  the  sun  for  a  fortnight, 
and   stir  it  occasionally. 

Obs. — ^Ten   good    sized   mangoes,  when  peeled  and   sliced, 
are  equal  in  weight,   or   nearly    so,  to  an  English  pound. 

Take   thirty   green  mangoes,  peel,  cut  into 

Sweet  green        thin    slices,    and    mince    tolerably    fine,  boil 

mangoe  ciut'  in   a  bottle  of   vinegar  a   seer  of  sugar  with 

ney.  eight  ounces   of  salt;   then  take  four    ounces 

of  garlic,   one    seer  of  stoned  raisins,  half  a. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


160  INDIAN   pOMBSTIC   ECONOMY 

seer  of  green  ginger,  and  one  pound  of  dried  cliillies 
well  ground;  chop  up  all  these  ingredients  very  fine,  and 
mix  together  with  the  mangoes ;  then  add  the  boi/ed 
vinegar  with  another  bottle  of  fresh,  put  the  whole  in  a 
jar  Well   corked  and  place  in  the  sun  for  a  few  days. 


Peel   a   green   mangoe   of  a  moderate  size; 

Plain  dinner    then  chop    up  the  fruit  into  as  smsjl  pieces 

chutney.  as    possible;  add  an  onion  with  two  ax  three 

green    chillies  cut  fitie,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of 

salt;    mix    the     whole    well    together.     Vinegar    may    be 

added   to  this,    but  it  is   hardly  necessary. 

Prepare    a   mangoe    that  js  just    beginning 

Sweet  green      to   ripen   in   the  same  way   as  the  last,  with 

mangoe        onion,    green    chillies,  a    little    green    ginger, 

chutney,       salt  and  sugar,    adding  a  spoonful  of  vinegar 

and  one  of  cream. 

Take  sixty  green  mangoes  peel  and 
Delhi  chutney,  cut  into  thin  slices,  and  boil  in  a  bottle 
of  vinegar  unt^  quite  smooth;  boil  in  ano- 
ther bottle  of  vinegar  half  a  seer  of  goar  and  half  a 
seer  of  salt ;  mix  this  all  well  together ;  then  take  half 
a  seer  of  mustard  seed,  cleaned  and  pounded ;  half  a  seer 
of  garlic  chopped  and  pounded,  one  seer  of  raisins  (stoned) 
or  kishmises,  cut  very  small  and  fine,  with  one  seer  of 
green  ginger  and  one  seer  of  dry  chillies,  also  pounded; 
mix  the  whole  well  together ;  then  add  four  bottles  of  vine- 
jpn^  and  put  the  mixture  out  in  the  sun  for  several  days^ 
occasionally  stirring  it  up;  this  may  be  used  as  soon  as 
made,  but  is  better  for  keeping.  It  may  be  converted 
into  a  usance  by  having  the  whole  of  the  ingredients  well 
pounded  before  mixing,  and  after  the  diutney  is  made, 
rob  it  through  a  sieve  or  coarse  cloth,  adding  vinegar  to 
reduce  it  to  a  proper  consistency. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  261 

Take   about    half  a    dozen    of    fine 

Tamarind  ehuiney,      green  tamarind  fruit ;      clean    off   the 

(green),  outer     skin^    and    remove    the    seeds ; 

then  rub  the     fruit    on     a    stone^    or 

pound    in  a  mortar  with  a  little  salt ;  add   a  small  quantity 

of  mustard   seed^    and   four  or    five  red    chillies  that  have 

been  fried  in  ghee,   and  powdered ;  mix  the  whole  together ; 

to  this   may  be   added  a  small   onion  6r  a  clove  of  garlic. 

Pulp  the  large  fruit,  and  mix  half  an  ounce 
Tamarind,  of  sugar  to  \xl  ounce  of  salt ;  pound  them  well 
iosalt.  together,  and  use  an  ounoe  to  every  pound  of 
fruit;  if  the  fruit  is  liquid,  it  ought  to  be 
dried  over  the  fire;  mix  the  salt  powder  in  the  fruit; 
put  the  fruit  in  pots,  and  cover  it  close.  If  it  is  dry,  it 
will  keep  for  years. 

Take    half  a    seer    of    red    tamarind :     well 

Tamarind    cleaned   salt,  kishmis,     sugar,  and    green  ginger. 

Chutney,    a   quarter   seer   of  each,  three   chittacks    of  red 

and   dried  chillies,    and   one    chittack  of  garlic; 

the  whole  must  be   well   ground,  and    mixed   with  vinegar 

without  any  water. 

Obe. — ^Mangoe  chutney  is  made  with  the  same  ingre- 
dients, and  equal  proportion,  the  only  difference  is  that 
the  mangoes,  kishmis,  green  ginger,  and  garlic  are  to  be 
finely  chopped,  and  the  dried  chillies  well  pounded  or 
ground   with  vinegar. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTER    XIV. 


PASTRY. 


A  few  observations  on  this  head  are  first  necessary  be- 
fore giving  the  receipts;  for  it  must  be  admitted  that  few 
cooks  in  this  country^  or  servants  who  have  the  manage- 
ment of  the  viands  put  on  the  table,  understand  properly 
the  difference  between  the  pastry  for  a  fruit  tart,  and  a 
crust  for  a  meat  pie,  and  of  which  there  is  nothing  more 
relishing  than  when  both  are  properly  made.  A  little  at- 
tention and  practice  alone  is  necessary  to  attain  the  art  of 
making  good  pastry ;  but  the  best  efforts  will  be  unsucces- 
ful  when  the  knowledge  of  regulating  the  heat  of  the  oven 
is  wanting;  good  pastry  is  often  spoilt  when  the  oven  is 
improperly  heated ;  and  inferior  pastry  improved,  if  at  its 
proper  temperature. 

The  heat  of  the  Indian  portable  oven  is  easier  regulated 
than  that  of  the  brick  or  clay  ones  which  are  fixtures,  as  fire 
can  be  applied  both  above  and  below,  increasing  or  dimin- 
ishing the  heat  at  pleasure.  Light  paste  requires  a  moder- 
ate heat,  for,  if  too  great  i^  will  be  burnt,  and  not  rise ; 
and  again,  if  too  slow,  it  will  be  soddened,  colourless,  and 
fallen.  Baised  pies  require  a  quick  oven  to  prevent  the 
crust  from  falling. 

When  pies,  cakes,  or  tarts  are  to  be  glazed  and  returned 
to  the  oven,  a  small  degree  of  heat  alone  is  necessary  to 
harden  it,  though  sometimes  paste  is  glazed  before  being 
put  in  the  oven,  and  the  following  are  the  ingredients 
used:  plain  water,  sugar  and  water,  yolk  and  white  of 
egg  beaten    with    water^    beaten    white    of  egg    and    sugar 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN  DOKESTIC  ECONOMT  AND  COOKX&T.  26S 

sifted  over,  or  butter   and  yolk  of  egg.     A  glazing  brush  is 

the  most  proper  for  applying  these  materials;   but  feathers, 

if    dean,    will  be  a  tolerable     substitute,    though  they   do 
not   distribute  the  glaze  so  equally. 

To  make  paste  well,  your  materials  should  all  be  fresh 
and  good ;  the  coolest  place  in  the  house  selected,  and  the 
flour  dry,  and  cleanly  sifted.  A  marble  slab,  slate,  or 
smoothly  polished  stone  is  the  best  for  making  it  upon, 
but  where  these  are  wanting,  the  bottom  of  a  large  dish 
turned  upwards  answers.  Next  is  the  board  kept  on  pur. 
pose,  or  the  table,  which  must  be  perfectly  clean  and  dry ; 
80  must  be  th»  rolling  pin.  To  raise  a  crust  nicely  a 
light  hand  is  required,  and  it  should  be  touched  as  little 
as  possible.  The  directions  for  rolling,  mixing,  spreading 
the  butter  and  flour  over  it,  must  be  carefully  attended  to 
— salt  added  in  the  proportion  of  a  tea-spoonful  to  a 
pound  of  flour,  and  butter  dissolved  in  any  fluid  that  may 
be  used  in  the  making;  but  if  for  fine  crusts,  add  also 
about  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sifted  sugar.  Pastry  is  best 
made  with  butter,  yet  for  household  purposes  sweet  clarified 
dripping  and  lard  may  be  substituted  to  diminish  the 
expense. 

Melt  it  in  a  warm  bath  by  placing  it  in 
Lard^  to  purify,  a  jar  in  a  boiler  of  water  ;  then  turn  it 
into  boiling  water,  and  beat  it  up  well, 
so  as  to  clean  it  of  all  impurities  ;  let  it  cool,  and  remove 
the  lard  from  the  surface ;  melt  it  again  in  the  warm 
bath,  and  let  it  stand  a  short  time  to  settle,  when  pour 
it  clear   ofP  into  any  vessel  for  use  or    keeping. 

Cut  the  suet  into  slices,  and  pick  out 
Suet,  to  clarify,  all  the  veins  and  skin  ;  put  it  into  a  sauc- 
pan  well  tinned,  or  a  jar  ;  if  the  former, 
melt  it  slowly  over  the  fire,  or  put  the  jar  in  an  oven  or 
boiler  of  water;  when  melted,  pour  it  into  any  clean 
vessel. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


264  INDTAN   DOMESTIC   EOONOMT 

Set  it  on  the  fire  in  a  clean  pan^  and  when 
To  clarify  melted  and  jnst  going  to  boil,  take  it  off,  and 
dripping,  poor  it  into  another  pan  half  filled  with  boil* 
ing  hot  water ;  stir  the  two  very  well  together 
with  a  broad  wooden  spoon^  and  then  remove  the  pan 
into  a  cool  place  till  the  next  day ;  when  the  clarified  drip- 
ping win   be   found   floating  on  the  surface  of  the  water. 

Where   butter    is  not    immediately     to    be 

Beef  9uetfof     obtained  for  paste,    clean   as  much  beef  suet 

puff  paste,     from   all   shreds,   chop  it  up  fine   and  pound 

it  in   a   mortar,   with   as   much    sweet  oil  as 

will  reduce  it  to   the  consistency  of  butter. 

Take     one  pound  of    fiour,  four  ounces 

Common  paste,    of  butter   or  clarified  dripping ;  mix  half -the 

flour  with   the  butter  or  dripping,  and  mix 

the     remainder  into    a  paste  with  milk;    roll  it  out,    and 

spread   the  other  half  on    it  at  three  times    rolling. 

MiaL  half  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar  with 
Fine  tart  paste,  half  a  pound  of  fine  flour,  adding  half  a 
wine  glass  of  boiling  cream  or  milk ;  rub 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter  into  it  ;  roll  it  very  thin,  and 
when  made  into  tarts,  brush  it  over  with  the  white  of 
an  egg. 

Beat  the    white   of  an  egg    into   a  strong 

Zi^M pastern     froth;   mix    wjjLh   it   as     much  water    as  will 

make   three   quarters   of  a  pound  of  flour  into 

a  stiff  paste  ;  roll  it  out,  and  spread  four  ounces  of  butter 

upon  it   at  three  times  rolling,   and   no  more. 

Mix  two  table -spoonfuls  of  sifted  sugar  with 
Siort  crust,  a  pound  of  flour ;  rub  into  it  three  ounces 
of  butter  ;  beat  the  yolk  of  two  eggs  with  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  cream  or  milk  to  make  tlie  flour 
into  a  paste  ;  roll  it  out  thin,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  |ft65 

Take  half  a  pound  of  fine  flour;  rub  into 
Puff  paste,  it  four  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  mix 
nvith  it  sufficient  pure  water  to  make  it  into 
a  paste ;  roll  it  out^  and  laj  on  it  two  more  spoonfuls  of 
butter;  fold  it  up,  and  roll  it  again  with  the  same  quan- 
tity; strew  over  it  a  little  flour  and  roll  it  once  more, 
and  set   it   by  in  a  cool  place  for  about  an  hour. 

Mix  a    quarter   of  a  pound   of  flour 
PoMte  for  stringing    with  a  table-spoonful  of    butter,   and  a 
over  tartlets.  little  cold    water ;    rub    it  well  on   the 

board  until  it  begins  to  string  under 
jour  hand ;  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  roll  it  out,  and  draw 
it  into  fine  strings;  lay  them  across  your  tartlets,  and 
bake  them   immediately. 

Put  to  three     and   a  half  pounds    of 

Paste/or  a  large    flour,   four    eggs,    two    pounds  of  butter, 

jpie  or  pasty .        and  half  a  pound    of  shred  suet,   beaten 

up  and    dissolved   to    the    consistency  of 

lard,  in  boiling  water;  with  as  much   of  the  liquor  as  will 

make  it  a  good  light  crust,  work  it  up  well,  and  roll  it  out. 

Put  an  ounce  of  loaf  sugar,  beat  and  shifts 

Far  tarts,    ed,  to  one  pound  of  fine  flour ;   make  it  into  a 

stiff    paste   with    a  gill    of  boiling    cream   and 

three   ounces   of  butter ;  work  it  well,   and  roll  it  very  thin. 

Mix  a  pound  ^f  flour  with  six  ounces  of 
For  tartlets,  butter,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of 
almond  paste,  and  six  yolks;  make  it  with 
rose  or  orange-flower  water;  beat  and  make  it  very 
smooth ;  cover  small  tart-pans,  and  /;ut  out  flat  or  raised 
covers;  if  raised,  they  may  be  baked  on  tart-pans  turned 
up :  these  covers  ought  to  be  very  open ;  do  not  fill  them 
till  wanted,  or  put  them  into  the  oven  with  any  cream  or 
custard, — fill  with  all  kinds  of  frangipanes,  fried  creams, 
kc^  &c. 

.    Kl 


Digitized  by 


Google 


266  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ICONOMTC 

Take    three  quarters    of  a  pound   of  fine 

Confectioner's    flour,   lay    it   on     your    paste-board,   make  a 

paste.  hole     in   the  centre,    in     which      put  half  a 

pound   of  sifted    sugar,  with    six  eggs,    ami 

work   it   up   into   a   stiff  paste,    when   it   will  be  ready    for 

use. 

Obs, — If  too    stiff,  add  more  egg,  or  too  soft,  more  flour. 

Mix  half  a  pound  of  lard  in  a  pint  of 
For  standing  pie.  water,  and  let  it  boil ;  have  ready  three 
pounds  of  dried  flour;  lay  a  little  aside 
to  make  up  the  paste  ;  mix  in  the  water  with  a  spoon ;  work 
it  stiff;  continue  working  it  till  quite  smooth.  Lay  aside 
a  piece  for  the  cover ;  roll  it  out  a  proper  thickness,  and 
mould  it  by  putting  the  right  hand  in  the  centre,  and  be- 
gin moulding  with  the  left  hand,  keeping  the  outside  in 
the  proper  shape.  The  meats,  which  are  savoury  for  these 
pies,  ought  to  be  ready  cooked  before  the  paste  is  made,  and 
may  be  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  onions  to  any 
height.  No  juice  of  any  kind  ought  to  be  put  into  them  : 
butter,  rasped  bacon,  and  savoury  jelly  are  the  only  ad- 
missible sauces-— fill,  cover,  wet  the  edges,  and  close  them 
neatly  and  put  them  into  a  quick  oven.  There  is  little  or 
no  difficulty  in  making  pies  after  a  knowledge  of  making 
paste  is  obtained. 

Pick  and  chop   very   fine,   half  a  pound 

Paste  for  boiled    of  beef  suet ;   add    to   it  one  pound  and  a 

puddings.  quarter   of  flour  and   a   little  salt;   mix  it 

with   half    a   pint    of  milk   or  water,  and 

beat   it   well   with   the   rolling  pin   to  incorporate    the   suet 

with  the  flour. 

Sift    two    pounds     of  fine    flour    to   one 

For  meat  or        and    a     half    of    good    salt    butter,    break 

savowry  pies,    it    into    small    pieces,    and    wash     it    well 

in    cold    water ;    rub    gently    together    the 

butter  and     flour,   and   mix  it   up  with  the   yolk   of  three 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKBRT.  267 

«gg8  beat  together  with  a  spoon,  and  nearly  a  pint  of 
spring  water;  roll  it  out  and  doable  it  in  folds  three 
times,  and  it   is   ready. 

Take    one     pound    of    flour    and    twelve 

ExcelleiU  short    ounces   of   butter;    rub   them   together,  and 

crwL  mix   into   a  stiff  paste   with  as  little  water 

as  possible;   beat  it   well,  and  roll   it  thin; 

bake   in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mix    the    quantity    of    rolong    you    re- 

A  good  paste    quire    with    water;    then    strew    some    flour 

for  patties,    on     the    table,    and    work    the   paste    well; 

then    roll    it    out    very    thin,    and    put   the 

butter  all  over  it;   roll  it   up    with    your    hands   and  then 

with  the  pin,   and   cut  it  out  the   size   of  your   patties. 

Sub    equal    quantities    of    flour    and    butter 
Cheese  cake    together    with     a    little     pounded     and     sifted 
paste.         sugar ;  make  it  into  a   paste  with  warm  milk  ; 
roll  it   out,   and   line  the   pans  with  it. 

Bub  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a 
Crisp  paste,  pound  of  flour  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
pounded  sugar,  and  the  well  beaten  yolk  of 
two  or  three  eggs ;  work  it  well  with  a  spoon,  and  roll  it 
out  very  'thin»  turning  it  as  little  as  possible  with  the 
hands;  just  before  patting  it  into  a  quick  oven,  brush  it 
over  with  the  white  of  an  egg  well  beaten,  and  strew 
over  the  tart  flnely   sifted  sugar. 

Obs. — ^This  crust  may  be   used  for  any  fruit  tarts. 

Take  as  much  of  the  best  wheaten  flour 
Macarofti paste »  as  will  be  necessary,  with  one  egg  and 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  water,  to  make  it 
a  very  stiff  paste.  The  flour  must  be  placed  on  the  table 
in.  a  heap,  a  hole  must  be  made  in  the  centre  at  the  top, 
the  egg  broken  in  it,  and  the  water  poured  in  upon  the 
egg;   the  whole  then   must  be    worked    and  kneaded  until 


Digitized  by 


Google 


t68  INDIAN  DOMESTIC   £GONOMT 

the  paste  is  as  stiff  as  it  can  possibly  be  made;  and  to  bring 
it  into  this  state  requires  much  strength  of  working  and 
patience.  Then  cut  the  paste  into  pieces  of  a  convenient 
size  for  working ;  each  piece  being  well  worked,  strew  flour 
over  the  table,  and  roll  out  one  piece  at  a  time  as  thin 
as  a  sheet  of  paper,  if  possible,  and  then  cut  into  strips 
like  narrow  ribbons,  which  may  be  preserved  in  this  form, 
about  six  inches  in  length,  or  the  strips  may  be  cut  into 
squares  of  the  same  length  as  the  width  of  the  ribbon; 
these  latter  are  better  for  using  with  broth   or  soup. 

One  pound  of  rolong  well  dried;  mix 
Scotci  fhori  with  a  quarter  pound  of  pounded  sugar- 
bread.  candy,  two  ounces  of  carraway  seed,  one 
ounce  of  candied  orange  peel  or  citron, 
made  into  a  stiff  paste  with  half  a  pound  of  melted  but- 
ter; roll  it  in  thin  slices;  then  strew  it  with  one  ounce 
of  blanched  almonds,  cut  up,  but  not  small,  and  pass  the 
rolling  pin  gently  over  them;  cut  them  into  curious 
shapes,  and  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven. 

Prepare  the  head  as  for  mock  turtle. 
Mock  Turtle  pie.  or  reserve  a  portion  when  making  the 
soup,  and  if  not  sufficient  add  a  couple  of 
calves'  feet  or  four  sheep's  trotters,  which  boil  till  tender, 
season  it  well  with  zest,  some  stock  and  minced  onions, 
lay  a  few  slices  of  lean  ham  or  bacon  at  the  bottom  of  the 
dish,  put  in  the  mock  turtle  sliced  with  ^g  balls,  and 
when  the  pie  is  full,  cover  with  a  puff  paste  and  bake  it, 
after  which  add  a   cup    of  rich    gravy,  or    seasoned  stock. 

Cut  into  slices  an  equal  quantity  of  pork,  fat 
Pork  pie.  and  lean ;  roll  the  pieces  in  white  spices  and  sweet 
herbs;  perpare  a  gravy  of  the  parings;  put  in 
small  whole  onions  or  minced,  at  pleasure,  or  a  large 
quantity  of  fine  minced  parsley  with  potatoes  and  vegeta- 
ble balls;  lay  in  the  ingredients  mixed,  or  in  layerss 
dredging  over  each  layer  pepper  and  salt;  if  the  pork  ha» 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKBBT.  269. 

been  salted^  salt  will  not  be  necessary ;  or  if  salt  pork  is 
used,  it  will  be  the  better  for  steeping,  and  half  dressing, 
or  fresh  pork  may  be  used.  It  may  also  be  seasoned  very 
high  with  mushrooms,  fine  vegetables,  hard  eggs,  and 
force  balls,  with  a  wine  or  other  sauce  put  in  when  it 
comes  out  of  the    oven. 

The  bread  for  croustades  should  be  baked  on 
Crouitades.  purpose  of  a  light,  firm,  well-made  dough  with 
eggs.  Gut  the  bread  into  hearts,  diamonds,  or 
any  other  fanciful  shape,  which  slit  all  round;  fry  them 
in  butter,  and  arrange  in  the  form  of  a  rosette;  then  cut 
a  round  for  the  centre,  which  slit  in  the  same  manner, 
and  place  in  the  middle  of  the  points  of  the'  hearts ;  fry 
this  also  of  a  fine  brown  colour ;  then  cut  out  the  interior, 
removing  all  the  crumb;  then  line  the  interior  halfway  up 
with  farce  or  gratin ;  dry  them  either  in  the  sun  or  before 
the  fire,  so  that  the  sauce  that  is  to  be  served  in  them 
may  not  run  through.  Small  croustades  may  be  made  in 
any  fancy  shape,  filled  in  the  same  way,  and  piled  upon 
the  dish. 

Is     made   by   cutting    the  fruit    into   thin 
Mangoe  tart     slices,   adding    spiced    sugar  and   water,   simi- 
lar  to    apple. 

Peel  and  cut  your  apples  into  quarters,  re- 
Jpple  tart»  moving  the  cores;  put  them  into  a  baking 
dish  with  a  little  grated  lemon  peel  and  a 
few  cloves,  some  pounded  or  moist  sugar ;  pour  a  little 
water  into  the  dish,  and  spread  the  paste  with  the  rolling- 
pin  on  the  table;  cut  some  of  it  very  thin,  and  with  a 
feather  moisten  it  all  round  (and  place  on  the  edge  of  the 
dish;)  roll  the  paste  round  with  the  rolling-pin,  and  put 
it  equally  over  the  apple  and  other  paste ;  press  the  paste 
all  round  with  your  finger  to  make  it  adhere;  then  with 
a  knife  cut  off  all  round  the  superfluity;  then  with  the 
foQ  of  a  spoon  make  some  marks   in    the  form  of  shells 


Digitized  by 


Google 


S70  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

all  round  the  edges  of  the  paste,  aboat  an  inch  distant 
from  one  another;  whip  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  spread 
it  with  a  feather  over  the  paste,  and  then  sift  or  spread  a 
little  pounded  white  sugar  over  the  eggs ;  dip  the  feather 
or  paste  brush  in  water,  and  sprinkle  the  water  very 
lightly  over  the  sugar.  To  prevent  its  burning  in  the 
oven  put  the  tart   on   a  tin,    and  bake  it   carefully. 

Obs.—The    same  method  is  to  be  pursued  for  all  kinds  of 
fruit   tarts* 

Prepare  jour  fruit  as  in  the  last  receipt, 
Creamed,  with  the  exception  of  the  eggs  and  sugar ; 
cover  the  centre  crust ;  when  the  tart  is  baked, 
cut  out  the  Vhole  of  the  centre,  leaving  the  edges ;  when 
cold,  pour  over  the  apples  some  rich  boiled  custard  or 
clouted  cream,  and  place  round  it  some  leaves  of  puff 
paste  of  a  light   colour. 

Squeeze  the  juice  and  pulp  of  four  Seville 
Orange  tart,  oranges,  boil  the  oranges,  until  tender,  add 
double  their  weight  of  sugar,  and  pound 
both  into  a  paste,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  butter,  and  the 
zest  of  the  oranges,  or  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  lemon, 
beat  the  whole  well  together  with  the  juice  and  pulp. 
Line  a  shallow  tart  dish  with  a  light  ciust,  lay  on  the 
orange  paste,   bake  it,   and   cover  with  a  cream  or   custard. 

Prepare  the  rhubarb  by  cutting  it  into 
Rhubarb  tart,  lengths,  and  remove  off  all  the  skin ;  divide 
it  into  small  pieces,  and  cover  it  with 
syrup,  or  sweeten  it  with  pounded  sugar,  and  moisten 
with  a  little  water;  put  it  in  a  saucepan  on  a  stove 
to  simmer  gently ;  when  tender,  remove,  and  let  it  cool  ; 
make  a  good  short  crust  paste;  bake  it  in  a  rather 
hot   oven,  pile   in   the  rhubarb   and   serve   cold. 

Rub   and  plump  half  a   pound   of  prunes   or 

Prune  tart,    raisins  ;   lay  them  in   the  bottom    of  a  sheeted 

dish;    make  a    custard    of   a  quart  of  cream 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  271 

and  ten  yolks ;  season  with  sugar^  cinnamon,  and  a  little 
lemon  juice;  cook  it;  plump  some  of  the  prunes  and  put 
them  upon  the  top.  Tamarinds,  or  any  dried  fruit  may 
be  baked  in  the  same  way— a  little  apple  pulp  may  be 
added  to  the  prunes  or  custard.  It  is  an  excellent  way 
of  baking  rhubarb  and  goosberries,  giving  them  plenty  of 
sugar. 

Blanch    and    beat    a    handful     of    almonds    with 
Puffs,  two    table-spoonfuls     of    orange-flower    water  ;     beat 
up     five  yolks   and   three  iwhites,    and  put   in     two 
table-spoonfuls  of  dried  flour,   a  pint   of  cream,  and  sweet- 
en; drop   them  into   hot  clarified    butter. 

Beat   a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  almonds ; 

Almond  puffs,     add  six  yolks   and   three  whites ;  season    as 

for   curd  puffs ;    make   up    the    paste   in   the 

same  manner ;    cut  them   out   with   the    handle  of  a  kev  3 

fry  and  serve  also   in   the   same  manner. 

Pound  a  pound  of  curd ;  mix  in  six  yolks 
Curdpuffs.  by  degrees,  with  a  gill  of  cream,  a  glass  of 
sweet  wine,  a  little  orange-flower  water,  with 
ginger,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  sugar;  thicken  it  with 
flour,  work  it  well,  roll  it  out,  and  cut  with  a  paste  cut- 
ter into  any  shape;   fry  crisp,   and  sift   sugar    over   them. 

Zest    four    large    oranges    or    lemons ;    add 

Orange  and      two  pounds  of    sifted   sugar ;    pound  it    with 

lemon  puffs,     the  zest,  and   make  it  into  a  stiff  paste  with 

strong     infusion     of    gum     dragon;     beat    it 

again,   roll  it  out,    cut  it  into  any  shape,  and  bake  it  in  a 

cool    oven. 

Beat  up  any  quantity  of  whites  of  eggs, 
Spieed  puffs,  adding  white  sifted  sugar  with  any  spices ; 
the  puffs  are  to  be  flavoured  with  mace, 
eimianion,  or  cloves,  and  drop  them  from  the  point  of  a 
knife  in  a  little  high  towering  form  upon  damped  wafer 
sheets,   and   put  them  into  a  very  slow    oven. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


272  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

Take  half  a  poand  of  pounded  loaf  sngar^ 
Cheesecake,  three  yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs  beaten, 
the  juice  of  three  litnes^  the  rind  of  two 
grated,  and  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter;  put  these  ingre- 
dients  into  a  saucepan,  and  stir  the  mixture  gently  over  a 
slow  fire  until  it  be  of  the  consistence  of  honey;  put  it 
into  patty    pans  lined  with  paste,    and   bake  them. 

The   native  way  of  making  curd  is  by  first 

Curdplain.    boiling    the    milk,    and    squeezing    lime    juice 

into  it,  or   by   adding  sour  butter-milk,  or  it 

may    be     turned    with     rennet    or   vegetable    rennet. — Sec 

Artichokei* 

Grate    fine    the    rind    of    two    or     three 
Lemon  cheese   limes ;    take    the    juice    of    four ;    mix    them 
cakes.  with  three  sponge   cakes,   four   table*spoonfuls 

**  of   fresh    butter,    and    the    same    quantity   of 

pounded  sugar,  a  little  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  grated  with 
a  wine  glass  of  cream  and  three  eggs  well  beaten;  work 
the  whole  well  together,  cover  your  pans  with  puff  paste, 
and  fill  in   the  material. 

Obs. — Orange  may  be  made   in  the   same  way. 

Blanch  and   dry  six   ounces  of  sweet  and 
Almond  cheese   half  an    ounce    of    bitter     almonds;    pound 
cakes,  them  in    a    mortar   to    a    fine    paste    with 

two  table-spoonfals  of  rose  or  orange-flower 
water ;  cream  up  eight  spoonfuls  of  fresh  butter,  and 
add  it  to  the  paste ;  beat  up  four  eggs  with  a  little 
cream,  six  table-spoonfuls  of  sifted  sugar  with  a  little  nut- 
meg, and  mix  the  whole  well  together ;  fill  your  pans 
sheeted  with   paste  as    the   last. 

Take  the  cujd  produced  from  two  seers  of 

Plain  cheese    new    milk;   break    and   drain    it  quite  dry; 

cakes.  put  it  into  a  mortar,  and   pound  it   smooth; 

add  four   table-spoonfuls  of  sifted  sugar  with 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKEEY.  273 

a  little  grated  lemon  peel  and  nutmeg;  beat  up  to  a  froth 
three  large  spoonfuls  of  butler,  and  add  it  to  the  curd  with 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten,  and  a  glass  of  brandy  or 
sweet  wine;  stir  all  well  together;  cover  your  tins  with 
pufp  paste,   and   fill  each  with  the  curd. 

Obs. — ^Lay  some  thin  slices  of  candied  lemon  peel  upon 
the  top,   and   bake  for  twenty  minutes. 

Beat  up  the  white  of  two  eggs  to  a 
lein^/ar  tartf.  solid  froth ;  lay  some  on  the  middle  of 
the  pie,  with  a  paste  brush  or  feathers; 
sift  over  plenty  of  pounded  sugar,  and  press  it  down  with 
the  hand;  wash  out  the  brush  or  feathers,  and  splash  by 
degrees  with  water  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  and  put  it 
in  the   oven  for  ten  minutes,   and   serve   it  up  cold. 

Whip  the  whites  of  five  eggs  to  \  froth . 
For  cake9.  add  a  pound  of  double  refined  sugar  sifted, 
and  three  spoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water  or 
emon  juice;  beat  it  up  very  well,  and  when  the  cake  is 
taken  out,  ice  it  with  a  wooden  spatula;  leave  it  in  the 
mouth  of  the  oven  to  harden,  as  it  must  not  have  the 
least  colour.  Lemon  juice  instead  •  of  the  orangerflower 
water  renders  it  very  white,  and*  particularly  pleasant  to 
the  taste. 

Break  into  a  pan  one  pound  of  refined  sugar ; 
Caramel,  put  in  four  table-spoonfuls  of  water;  set  it  on 
the  fire,  and  when  it  boils,  skim  it  quite  clean ; 
let  it  boil  quick  till  it  comes  to  the  degree  called  cracky 
which  may  be  known  by  letting  a  little  of  the  sugar  drop 
into  a  pan  of  cold  water ;  if .  it  remains  hard,  it  has 
attained  that  degree;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lime  and 
let  it  remain  one  minute  longer  on  the  fire  and  then  set 
the  pan  into  another  of  cold  water;  have  ready  a  basin 
or  mould  of  any  shape;  rub  them  over  with  sweet  oil; 
dip  a   fork  or  spoon  into    the  sugar,   and    throw   it  over 

L  1 


Digitized  by 


Google 


274  «       INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

the  mould  in  fine  threads  till  i(.  is  quite  covered;  make  a 
handle  of  the  same^  and  place  in  it  anj  sweetmeat  or 
pastry  you  please. 

Bhinched    nuts    and  almonds  of  every 

Nuts  and  almonds    description    must    be  grilled    or    roasted 

in  CarameL         in  a  pan  to   make  them  peel ;   they  are 

then  to  be  stuck   with  twigs,  and  cara- 

melled  as  the  fruit. 

Obs. — Nuts  of  all  description    should  be   either    roasted, 
blanched,  or  the'  shells  cracked  before  being  put  on  table. 

One  pound  of  beef  suet  picked  and  ehop- 
Mince  meat,  ped  fine,  one  pound  of  apple  pared,  cored 
and  chopped,  or  plantains,  one  and  half  a 
pound  of  currants,  washed  and  picked,  half  a  pound  of 
raisins  stoned  and  chopped  fine,  half  a  pound  of  good 
moist  tkgar,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron  cut  in  thin 
slices,  half  a  pound  of  candied  lemon  and  orange  peel  cat 
in  thin  slices,  one  pound  of  ready  dressed  roast  beef,  free 
from  skin  and  gristle  and  chopped  fine,  one  nutmeg  grat* 
ed,  half  an  ounce  of  salt,  half  an  ounce  of  ground  ginger, 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  coriander  seeds,  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  allspice,  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves,  all 
ground  fine,  the  juice  of  three  lemons  and  their  rinds 
grated,  quarter  of  a  pint  of  brandy,  half  a  pint  of  sweet 
wine;  mix  the  suet,  apple  or  plantains,  currants,  meat, 
plums  and  sweetmeats  well  together  in  a  large  pan,  and 
strew  in  the  spice  by  degrees ;  mix  the  sugar,  lemon  juice, 
wine,  and  brandy,  and  pour  it  to  the  other  ingredients 
and  stir  it  well  together;  set  it  by  in  close  covered  jars 
in  a  cold  place;  when  wanted,  stir  from  the  bottom,  and 
add  a  little  noyeau,  cura9oa,  brandy,  or  sweet  wine,  suffici- 
ent to  moisten  the  quantity  you  require.  Sweet  paste  is 
most  appropriate  for  making  pies;  they  are  made  flat,  and 
about  four  inches  in  diameter.  The  pans  should  sel- 
dom  be  larger  than  the  size   of  small  saucer. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  275 

O69. — ^Yery  good  minced  pies  may  be  made  by  withhold- 
ing many  of  the  ingredients^  or  half  of  the  qaantities  of 
the  expensive  ones. 

Take  of  kishmises  or  raisins  two  pounds 
Tiineemeat  and  a  half:  wash  clean  and  pick  both  care- 
f or  pies*  fully,  stoning  the  raisins;  then  chop  up  very 
fine,  and  mix  with  the  following  ingredients 
chopped  also: — two  pounds  of  dried  currants,  orange  mar- 
malade one  pound,  preserved  citron  and  ginger  half  a 
pound  of  each,  one  pound  of  sifted  or  moist  sugar,  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  lime  juice,  two  glasses  of  brandy, 
two  grated  nutmegs,  two  poimds  of  well  roasted  beef  or 
boiled  salt  beef;  if  the  former,  add  a  table-spoonful  of 
salt ;  a  cured  salt  tongue  may  be  used  in  the  same  pro- 
portion as  beef,  with  one  pound  of  suet  or  marrow;  t^o 
pounds  of  white  pumpkin  jam,  or  plantain ;  the  whole  of 
the  ingredients  are  to  be  chopped  very  fine,  and  minutely 
mixed ;  let  them  remain  in  an  open  vessel  for  a  few  days, 
then  put  into  jars. 

Ola. — In  England  apples  are  used.  I  have  substituted 
the  jam  instead.  The  fruit  of  the  bhere,  which  is  in  sea- 
son during  the  month  of  December,  may  be  used  for  apples, 
as  they  approach  something  in  flavour.  When  the  miuce 
is  required,  add  a  little  brandy  or  sweet  wine  to  moisten 
it.     It  will  keep  good  for  twelve   months. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTER    XV 


PUDDINGS,  Etc. 

Chop  four  ounces  of  beef  suet  very  fine, 
JpplejpuJdin^.  or  two  ounces  of  butter,  lard,  or  dripping ; 
put  it  on  the  paste  board  or  a  large  flat 
dish,  with  eight  ounces  of  flour  and  a  salt-spoonful  of 
salt ;  mix  it  well  together  with  jour  hands,  and  put  it  in 
a  heap ;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle ;  break  one  egg  in  it, 
and  stir  it  together  with  your  finger ;  and  by  degrees  add 
as  much  water  as  will  make  it  of  a  stiff  paste.  Spread 
a  little  flour  on  the  board,  and  roll  it  out  two  or  three 
times  with  a  rolHng-pin,  and  then  roll  it  out  large  enough 
to  receive  twelve  or  thirteen  ounces  of  apples ;  if  to  be 
boiled  in  a  pudding  cloth,  the  cloth  must  be  first  soaked 
in  water,  squeezed  dry,  and  floured ;  but  it  will  look 
better  if  boiled  in  a  basin,  well  buttered :  boil  for  an  hour 
and  three  quarters.  The  best  way  is  to  stew  the  fruit  first 
with  a  couple  of  table-spoonfuls  of  moist  sugar,  a  few 
cloves,  and  a  wine-glass  of  water :  the  pudding  will  then 
only   take  half  the   time  to   boil. 

Obs. — Mangoe  pudding  may  be  made  in  the  same  way  as 
well  as  other  fruits,  only  the  quantity  of  sugar  must  be 
varied  according  to  the  acidity  of  the  fruit;  the  same 
crust  as  directed  for  apple  pudding  answering  for  all. 

Mix   a  quarter   of   a    pound    of    almond 

Almond  rice  cup  paste   with  a  pint  of  cream ;  mix    in    two 

puddinffs.  spoonfuls    of   ground    rice     and    a    *  little 

lemon    zest;    let    it    cool,    and    add    the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDUN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY  AND   COOKERY.  S77 

yolks  or  whites,  according  to  the  stiffuess  wanted^  of  frooot 
two  to  four  eggs.  If  to  be  turned  out,  put  some  citron 
chips  in  the  bottom  of  the  cup;  if  to  be  served  in  the 
cups,  lay  some  on  the  top,  dip  the  cups  in  water 
before  the  pudding  is  put  in.  They  look  well  hogged 
over  with  almonds  or  pistachio  nuts  and  served  in 
coloured  cream,  or  the  puddings  coloured  and  served  in 
white  cream  or  in  broken  jeUy. 

Scald  the  fruit,  peel,  beat  and  sweet- 
AjMricot puddinff.  en  it;  beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  with 
two  whites;  mix  all  together  with  a 
pint  of  cream;  put  it  into  a  basin  sheeted  with  cream 
paste.  As  the  pudding  stuff  requires  a  moderate  oven, 
puff  paste  will  not  answer;  this  must  be  attended  to,  as 
otherwise  either  the  paste  or  pudding  will  be  spoilt.  The 
kernels  may  be  blanched,  pounded,  and  put  into  the 
pudding. 

!From  a  quart  of  new  milk  take  a  small 
Arrowroot  cupful  and  mix  it  with  two  large  spoonfuls  of 
puddififf.  arrowroot;  boil  the  remainder  of  the  milk 
and  stir  it  among  the  arrowroot;  add,  when 
nearly  cold,  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  with  two 
table-spoonfals  of  pounded  sugar,  and  two  ounces  of  fresh 
butter  broken :  season  with  grated  nutmeg ;  mix  it  well 
together,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes. 

To  every  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk 
BaUer  pudding,  put  an  egg  and  a  spoonful  of  flour  and 
beat  them  up  well  together;  add  a  little 
salt,  take  care  that  the  whole  is  quite  smooth;  have  your 
saucepan  ready  boiling;  butter  an  earthen  mould  or  basin; 
put  the  pudding  in,  and  tie  it  tight  over  with  a  pudding 
cloth ;  boil  it  an  hour  or  more,  or  put  it  in  a  dish  you 
have  well  buttered,  and  bake  it  three  quarters  of  an 
hour. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


278  INDIAN    DOMESTIC    XCONOUT 

06s. — When  wanted  light,  a  larger  proportion  of  eggs 
is  required,  and  less  floor ;  if  the  flour,  milk  and  salt  is 
first  cooked  smooth,  and  when  cold,  the  eggs  added,  it 
requires  less  time  to  boil. 

Bub  three  spoonfuls  of  flour  into  a  pint  of 
Another,  raw  milk  by  degrees;  simmer  it  until  it  thick- 
ens ;  stir  in  two  ounces  of  butter ;  set  it  to 
cool;  then  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten;  bat- 
ter a  basin  or  mould;  put  the  pudding  into  it;  then  tie 
tight  with  a  cloth  well  floured,  plunge  it  bottom  upwards 
into  boiling  water,  and  boil  half  an   hour. 

Bub  half  a  pound  of  biscuit  with  a 
Pudding  bUcuU.  quarter  of  a  pound  of  almond  paste,  a 
quart  of  cream  or  rich  milk  by  de- 
grees, in  a  mortar,  adding  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  and  the 
whites  of  five;  season  with  lemon  juice  and  sugar,  grated 
lemon  peel,  or  any  fruits  may  be  added;  such  as  currants, 
dried  dates,  prunes  or  plums,  chopped  up :  this  may  be 
either  boiled   in  moulds,  cups,   or  fried. 

Make  a  good  sweet  egg  custard,  add- 
Bamhay  pudding,  ing  a  little  butter,  a  glass  of  wine  or 
brandy  with  some  grated  nutmeg;  have 
ready  a  finely  rasped  cocoanut,  and  mix  all  together ; 
line  a  dish  with  puff  paste,  fill  in  the  custard,  and  bake 
of  a  delicate   brown  colour. 

To  half  a  pound  of  stale  brown  bread. 
Brown  bread  finely  and  lightly  grated,  add  an  equal 
pudding.  weight  of  suet,  chopped  small,  and  of  cur- 
rants, cleaned  and  dried,  with  half  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  three  ounces  of  sugar,  half  a  nutmeg 
grated,  the  grated  rind  of  a  large  lime,  five  well  beaten  eggs, 
and  a  glass  of  brandy;  mix  these  ingredients  thoroughly, 
and  boil  the  pudding  in  a  cloth  for  three  hours  and  a 
half.    Send  wine   sauce  to  table  with  it. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  S79 

Pour  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  over  four 
Bread  pudding »  ounces^  of  bread  crumbs  and  two  spoonfuls 
of  fresh  butter;  cover  till  cold;  then  mix 
three  well  beaten  eggs  and  a  table-spoonful  of  sugar  and 
half  the  peel  of  a  grated  lemon  or  lime  and  a  little 
pounded  cinnamon ;  boil  it  in  a  mouldy  or  bake  in  a  but- 
tered dish;  serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

Butter  a   dish  or  mould;   lay  into  the 
Bread  and  butter    bottom  thin   cut  bread  and  butter  with- 
pudding.  out  any  crust ;   strew   over  some  currants 

that  have  been  picked  and  cleaned,  or 
else  chopped  stoned  raisins;  then  pour  over  this  some 
batter  made  as  follows:  Take  a  pint  of  new  milk,  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  two  spoonfuls  of  sifted  sugar,  a  little 
essence  of  lemon,  and  some  grated  nutmeg ;  pour  over  the 
slices  of  bread  and  butter;  then  place  more  bread  and 
butter,  and  currants  with  batter  between,  until  your  dish 
is  nearly  full;  pour  the  remaining  batter  on  the  top. 
This  may  either  be  boiled  in  a  mould,  or  baked— the 
latter  way  is  the  best ;  with  a  small  rim  of  paste  round 
the  dish;  serve  with  wine  sauce. 

Pound  in  a  mortar  the  red  part  of 
Carrot  pudding,  four  large  carrots;  take  about  eight 
ounces  in  weight;  soak  half  a  pound  of 
the  crumb  of  bread  in  a  quart  of  boiling  new  milk;  add 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  a  little  .orange-flower 
water  with  the  zest  and  juice  of  two  limes  and  a  little 
cinnamon ;  beat  and  add  six  eggs.  Bake  it  with  a  paste 
round  the  edges,  and  sift  sugar  over  it;  or  the  dish  may 
be  buttered,  and  the  pudding  taken  out,  but  it  must  not 
be   turned  over.    Ornament   with  almonds^  citron,   &c. 

Take    the    red   part    of  two  large  boiled    car- 

Another.    rots ;  pound    in   a  mortar ;   add  a  slice  of  grated 

bread,   with  two    spoonfuls   of    butter,    the   same 

of  moist  sugar,   a  little  lime  or  orange  peel  minced,  some 


Digitized  by 


Google 


280  INDIAN;  BOtfESTIC  ECONOMY 

nutmegy   and  four  eggs^  well    beaten;  mix  all   well  together 
and  line  the  dish  with  paste  and  bake  it. 

Clean    and    scrape    only ;    boil  and  mash 
Mashed  carrots,    them   with  cream    and  butter;    they   make 
an  excellent    batter    with    eggs  and  flour 
to  bake  meat  in. 

Mix  with  one  table*  spoonful  of  flour, 
Cualard pudding,  a  pint  of  new  milk,  the  well  beaten 
yolks  of  six  eggs,  a  spoonful  of  rose- 
water  and  a  spoonful  of  fresh  butter;  add  a  little  grated 
nutmeg,  and  sweeten  with  pounded  sugar;  bake  in  a  dish 
lined  with  puff  paste  for  half  an  hour;  when  about  to 
serve,  sift  a  little  sugar  over  it. 


A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated 
Cocaonut  pudding,  cocoanut,  the  same  quantity  of  pow- 
dered  loaf  sugar,  three  ounces  and  a 
half  of  good  butter,  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  and  half  a 
glass  of  wine  and  brandy  mixed,  a  tea-spoonful  of  orange- 
flower  or  rose-water;  pour  into  your  paste,  and  bake  with 
a  moderate  oven. 


Take  of  new  milk  sufficient  to  mix  into 
Hasty  baked  a  thin  batter  two  ounces  of  flour ;  put  a 
pudding,  pint  with  a  small  pinch  of  salt  into  a  dean 
saucepan,  and  when  it  boils,  quickly  stir 
the  flour  briskly  to  it;  keep  it  stirred  over  a  gentle  fire 
for  ten  minutes;  pour  it  out  and  when  it  has  become 
a  little  cool,  mix  with  it  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  three 
of  pounded  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lime,  four  eggs, 
and  half  a  glass  of  brandy  or  as  much  orange-flower 
water ;  to  these  half  a  dozen  of  bitter  almonds,  pounded 
to  a  paste,  may  be  added.  Bake  ^the  pudding  half  an 
hour    in   a    gentle   oven. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    eOOKERT.  £81 

Zest     a    lemon     or     Seville     orange  ; 
lemon  or  orange       squeeze     out    the    juice   and     pulp :    boil 
pudding.  the   skin   in   several   waters    to    take    out 

the  bitter;  beat  it  in  a  mortar  with 
sugar  and  butter  of  each  a  quarter  of  a  pound  with  six 
eggs^  a  little  of  the  zest^  and  the  juice  ;  put  it  in  a  sheeted 
dish^  and  cross  it  with  very  fine  bars  of  paste^  with  an 
ornament  in  the  middle. 

To  eight  ounces  of  finely  grated  bread 
Lemon  suet  crumbs,  add  six  of  fresh  beef  kidney  suet  free 
pudding,  from  skin  and  minced  very  small,  three  and 
a  half  of  pounded  sugar,  «x  ounces  of  cur- 
rants, the  grated  rind  and  the  strained  juice  of  two  large 
limes  and  four  full-sized  or  five  small  well  beaten  eggs  ; 
pour  these  ingredients  into  a  thickly  buttered  pan,  and 
bake  the  pudding  for  an  hour  in  a  brisk  oven  to  a  fine 
brown  colour.  Turn  it  from  the  dish  before  it  is  served, 
and  strew  sifted  sugar  over  it,  or  not,  at  pleasure.  The 
pudding  is   very  good   without   the   currants. 

Beat  up  four  table -spoonfuls  of  dry  flour 
Franchipan^  with  four  eggs  and  a  pint  of  cream  ;  add  a 
little  salt  and  sugar  j  rasp  the  peel  of  a 
lemon  or  lime  into  the  mixture  ;  put  the  whole  into  a 
stewpan  over  a  gentle  fire,  and  keep  stirring  it  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  ;  blanch  and  pound  to  a  fine  paste 
with  a  little  rose  or  orange-flower  water  one  dozen  sweet 
and  the  same  of  bitter  almonds,  and  mix  this  with  the 
franchipan,  with  which  fill  your  tartlets,  or  lay  upon  puff 
paste,  nicely  trimmed,  with  sifted  sugar  on  the  top,  and 
pass  the   salamander  over  it* 

Grate  a  roll    into    crumbs ;    pour    on 

Marrow  pudding,    them  a   pint   of    boiling   hot   cream ;   cut 

very  thin  half  a   pound  of   beef  marrow  ; 

beat  the  yolks   of  four  eggs  well,  and   then  put   in  a  glass 

of  brandy   with  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste ;   mix    them  all 

Ml 


Digitized  by 


Google 


28S  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

well  together,  and  either  boil  or  bake  it  for  three  quar- 
ters of  an  hour ;  cut  two  ounces  of  citron  very  thin,  and^ 
before  serving,  stick  th^n  all  over  it. 

Four  on  a  small  cupfnl  or  more  of  bread 
Pudding  of  crumbs,  sufiknent  boiling  vdSSl  to  soak  them 
mincemeat,  well ;  when  they  are  nearly  cold,  drain  as 
much  of  it  from  them  as  you  can,  and 
mix  them  thoroughly  with  half  a  pound  of  mince- 
meat, a  dessert-spoonful  ol  brandy  and  three  eggs  beaten 
and  strained;  boil  the  pudding  for  two  hours  in  a  well 
buttered  basin,  which  should  be  full^  and  serve  it  with 
wine  sauce. 

Boil  a  sufficient  quantity  of  macaroni  in 
Macaroni  milk  ;  ky  it  into  a  pudding-dish  bordered  with 
pudding.  paste  ;  season  a  pint  of  milk  or  (aream  with 
cinnamon,  orange-flower  water,  zest,  and  jnico 
of  lime ;  sweeten  and  add  four  yolks,  well  beaten ;  thicken 
and  pour  it  over  the  macaroni  ;  when  the  paste  is  done» 
it  is  enough ;  sift  sugar  and  rasped  almonds  over  it. 
An  ezoeUent  way  is  to  lay  two  or  three  ounces  of  plump- 
ed prunes  or  plums  with  some  shred  marrow  and  sugar 
over  the  macaroni.  YermiceUi  or  any  Italian  pastes  may 
be  made  in  the  like  manner. 

Put  on  to  boil  a  pint  of  good  milk,  with 
Newmarket  the  peel  of  a  lime,  a  little  cinnamon  and    a 

pudding.  peach-leaf;   boil    gently  for  five  or  ten  mi-- 

nutes ;  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar ;  break  the 
yolks  of  five  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs  into  a  basin,  beat 
them  well,  and  add  the  milk ;  beat  all  well  together,  Sknd 
strain  through  a  fine  hair  sieve  or  tammis  ;  have  some  bread 
and  butter  cut  very  thin ;  lay  a  layer  of  it  in  a  pie-dish» 
and  then  a  layer  of  currants,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is 
nearly  full ;  then  pour  the  custard  over  it  and  bake  half 
an  hour. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


\ 


AND  COOKERY.  1^83 

Butter  a  half  melon  mould  or  quart 

Ifeweastie,  or  CaU*     basin,  and  stick   all  round  with  dried 

net  pudding.  cherries    or    fine    raisins,    and    fill    up 

with    bread   and    butter,    and    custard, 

Ac.  as  in  the  above,  and  steam  it  an  hour  and  a  half. 

^f*7-  ^        Put  a  quart  of  split  peas,  or  dhal,  that 
Or      P€as  pudding,     has  been  soaked  for  at  least  two  hours,  into 
A  a  dean    cloth:    do  not  tie    them  up    too 

dose,  but  leave  a  little  room  for  them  to  swell ;  put  them 
on  to  boil  in  <x)ld  water  slowly  till  they  are  tender  ;  if 
ihey  are  good  peas  or  dhal,  they  will  be  boiled  enough 
in  about  two  hours  and  a  half;  rub  them  through  a  sieve 
into  a  deep  dish,  adding  io  th^n  an  egg  or  two,  an 
ounce  of  butter,  and  some  sidt;  beat  them  well  together 
for  about  ten  minutes.  When  these  ingredients  are  well 
incorporated  together,  then  flour  the  doth  wdl;  put  the 
pudding  in  and  tie  it  up  ass  tight  as  possible  and  boil  it 
4U1  hour  longer.  It  is  as  good  with  boiled  beef  as  it  is 
inth  boiled  pork. 

N.  P.— Stir  this  pudding  into  two  quarts  of  plain 
4)roth  or  the  liquor  meat  or  poultry  has  been  boiled  in, 
give  it  a  boil  up,  and  in  five  minutes  it  will  make  ex- 
cellent plain   «oup. 

Suet  chopped  fine  six  ounces,  raisins 
V  ^  Plum  pudding,  stoned  six  ounces,  currants  nicdy  washed 
and  picked  eight  ounces,  bread  crumbs  three 
ounces,  flour  three  ounces,  three  eggs,  one  quarter  of  a  nut- 
meg, a  small  blade  of  mace,  the  same  quantity  of  cinnamon 
|x>unded  as  fine  as  possible,  half  a  tea-spoonfud  of  salt, 
half  a  pint  of  milk,  or  rather  less,  sugar  four  ounces,  to 
which  may  be  added  candied  lemon  one  ounce,  citron  half 
•an  ounce;  beat  the  eggs  and  spice  well  together,  mix  the 
•milk  with  them  by  degrees,  then  the  rest  of  the  ingre- 
idients;  dip  a  doth  into  boiling  water  and  put  it  on  a 
«ieve ;  flour  it  a  little  and  tie  it  up  dose ;    put  it  into  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


SS-l-  INDIAN   D0MB8TIC   ECONOMY 

saucepan,  containing  plenty  of  boiling  water ;  keep  a  ket« 
tie  of  boiling  water  alongside  of  it  to  fill  up  the  *  pbt 
as   it   wastes;   and   let  it  boil   six  hours   at   least. 

Put  half  a  pint  of  fine  bread  crumbs  into 
Light  plum  a  basin  ai\d  pour  on  them  a  quarter  pint  of 
pudding,  boiling  milk  and  cover;  let  them  soak  for  half 
an  hour;  then  mix  with  them  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  suet,  chopped  extremely  small,  and  a  pound 
of  raisins^  three  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  of  flour,  three 
eggs,  a  little  salt,  and  sufficient  grated  lemon  peel  and 
nutmeg  to  flavour  it  lightly;  tie  the  pudding  in  a  .well 
floured   cloth,  and   boil  it   for   two   hours. 

Wash  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice^  dry  it 
Patna  rice  in  a  cloth,  and  beat  it  to  a  powder ;  set  it 
pudding,  upon  the  fire  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  new 
milk  till  it  thickens,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  ; 
pour  it  out)  and  let  it  stand  to  cool;  add  to  it  some  cin- 
namon, nutmeg  and  mace,  pounded  sugar  to  the  taste« 
half  a  pound  of  suet  shred  very  small,  and  eight  eggs, 
well  beaten,  with  some  salt;  put  to  it  either  half  a  pound 
of  chopped  raisins,  or  currants  clean  washed,  and  dried  by 
the  fire,  some  candied  lefltion)  citron,  or  orange  peel;  bake 
it  half  an  hour   with   a  puff  crust  under  it. 

Take    a    small    basin    of    boiled    dry 

JUice  pudding  with    rice ;   mix  it  with   hdf  a  pound   of  cur- 

dry  currants.  rants,   two   table-spoonfals    of  sugar,  one 

of   butter,    and   a    beaten    egg;    boil    it 

in  a  floured  cloth   or  mould  for  nearly  an  hour. 

Take  boiled  rice>    and   tx)ver  it   with   milk. 
Rice  pudding     sugar,  a    beaten    egg,     and    a   little    grated 
for  children,  lemon;   bake   this  in  a  dish. 

Pick  and    clean   nicely   half  a   pound  of  rice  { 
Another,     put  it  iato   a   deep  dish  with   a    little   butter  or 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERYk  £35 

^xxei  chopped,  four  spoonfuls    of  sugar,   and  two  quarts  of 
milk ;  grate  nutmeg  over  the  top^  and  bake  in  a   slow  oven. 

Wash  and    pick   four   ounces    of  rice   very 

Bice  pudding     clean;   soak  it    in  water  half  an   hour;  then 

boiled.  tie   it    up   in   a    cloth   with   eight   ounces  of 

picked     currants    or   raisins  ;   leave   room   for 

Ihe   rice  to   swell,  and  boil  it  nearly  two    hours ;   serve  with 

melted  butter,   sugar,    and  nutmeg. 

Take  half    a    pound     of  well    boiled    rice, 
Mice  pudding    quite  dry;  mix  it  with  four   eggs  well  beateh, 
baked,  a  quarter  of  a  pint   of   cteam   or   milk,    with 

two  table- spoonfuls  of  butter,  some  grated 
lemon  peel  and  nutmeg,  half  a  glass  of  brandy  or  noyeau, 
half  a  pound  of  picked  currants  rubbed  in  a.  little  flour, 
with  four  table -spoonfuls  of  finely  shred  sUet  or  marrow; 
mix  these  ingredients  well  together,  put  a  paste  round 
the  edge  of  the  dish,  fill  it  with  the  pudding  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Put    four  ounces    of    ground  rice    into    a 

'^'Ground  rice    stewpan,   and   by    degrees   stir  in   a  pint  and 

pudding.       a  half  of  milk;  set  it  on  the  fire  with  a  roll 

of    lime    peel   and  'a   bit    of  cinnamon ;   keep 

stkring  it  till  it  boil;    beat  it   to  a  smooth  batter;    then 

set  it   on,  where  it  will,  simmer  gently   for  a    quarter    of 

an  hour ;   then  beat  three   eggs   on   a  plate  i   stir  them   into 

the  pudding  with  two  ounces    of  sugar  and  half  a   grated 

nutmeg;    take    cut    the    lime    peel    and   cinnamon;   stir    it 

all  well  together;   line  a  pie  dish  with  thin  puff  paste,  big 

enough   to  hold   it,   or  butter    the   dish    well,    and  bake  it 
....  .  * 

half  an  hour;   if  boiled,  it  will  take  one   hour  in  a   mould, 

well   buttered.     Three  ounces   of  currants  may  be   added. 

Peel  and  well  wash  three  or  four  dozen  sticks 

Jiittbarb       of  rhubarb;    blanch   it  in  water   three    or    four 

jHiddififf,   minutes;  drain  it  on   a  sieve,  and  put   it   in   a 

stewpan^   with  the  peel  of  a  lime,  a  bit  of  cin^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


S86  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

fiamon^  two  cloves^  and  as  much  iDoist  sugar  as  will 
sweeten  it ;  set  it .  over  a  fire^  and  reduce  it  to  a  marma- 
lade; pass  it  through  a  hair  siere;  then  add  the  peel  of 
a  lime  and  half  a  nutmeg  grated^  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  good  butter  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  one  white, 
^nd  mix  all  well  together  $  line  a  pie  dish  (that  will  just 
<;ontain  it)  with  good  pufi'  paste,  put  the  mixture  in,  and 
bake  it  half  an  hour. 

Take  some  plantains,  and  have  them  fried 
Plantain  in  their  skins;  which  when  done,  you  must 
jpudding*  peel  and  cut  the  fruit  in  slices;  add  sugar 
to  the  taste,  the  Juice  of  two  or  three  limes, 
the  peel  of  one  cut  into  small  thin  piecesy  a  glass  of  white 
wine,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  cloves  with  a  little  butter; 
this  is  to  be  put  into  a  paste>  and  boiled  as  an  apple 
pudding.  Cream  or  lemon  and  sugar  with  butter  is  a 
great  improvements 

Simmer  a  quarter  of  "a  pound  of  sago  with 
Sago  pud-  water,  and  leave  it  till  it  falls  into  a  jelly; 
ding.  add  half  a  pound  of  Naples  biscuit  or  breadjT 
ten  yolks,  six  whites,  and  a  quart  of  cream 
or  new  milk;  season  with  wine,  sugar,  cinnamon  or  lime 
Juice,  zest^  and  candied  peel;  put  it  into  a  bordered  pud« 
ding  dish,  and  sift  sugar  over  it.  Rasped  citroA  may  be 
added.  If  milk  is  used,  prepare  and  thicken  as  artifi- 
cial cream,  and  when  the  pudding  is  mixed,  add  an 
ounce  and  a  half  of  very  nice  butter,  •which,  if  properly 
^one,  will  answer  instead  of   cream. 

Simmer  a  quarter  of  a  pormd  of  ta*- 
Tapioca fiudding.  pioca  in  water;  strain  and  add  a  pint 
of  new  milk  ;  simmer  it  till  it  thickens ; 
let  it  cool ;  add  the  yolk  of  four  eggs  and  two  whites,  with 
•a  little  brandy,  wine  or  orange-flower  water,  sugar,  nutmeg 
and  an  ounce  of  clarified  butter;  mix  it  well,  butter  the 
^disbf  border  it  with  pastei   and  bake  it  or  boil  it  in  a  basin% 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   OOOKBKT.  i^87 

Beat  eight  eggs  very  well;  put  them  into 

TrasnyMretU     a  saucepan  with  one   quarter  of    a  pound  of 

^^      pudiing.       pounded  sugar,   the  same  of  &esh  butter^  and 

two    large    spoonfuls  of    marmalade    or    with 

^       some  grated  nutmeg  or  lime   peel;  keep  it  stirring  on  the 

fire  till  it  thickens ;   then  set  in  a    basin    to  cool ;  put    a 

rich  paste  into  a  dish,  and  pour  in  the  pudding;   bake  it 

in   a  moderate  oven. 

Make   a  tolerable  stiff  batter  with  four  eggs, 

'     TorksAire     six  table-spoonfuls  of  fine  flour,  and   a   pint  of 

^"     jmdding.   milk ;  beat  the  whole  up  well,  free  from  lumps ; 

i  butter  a   dish,  or  use    clarified   dripping;  pour 

ID  the  batter,   and  put  it  under  the  meat,  or  else  fry  it  in 

a  pan  with   plenty  of  hot  dripping ;  as  soon   as  the   under 

ade  is  done,  turn  it,  that    both  may  be  alike,    or  brown 

the    upper    with  a  salamander;    it    may  be   baked.     This. 

pudding  should  be  light  and  half  an  inch  thick;  cut  into 

squares,  and  serve   with    roast   beef  or  mutton. 

Obs. — ^A  batter  made  a  very  little  thicker  and  placed  in 
a  deep  dish  with  a  small  joint  of  meat  in  the  middle,  and 
baked,   is  called  in  Devonshire,  "  Toad  in  the  hole/' 

The  same  crust,  as  for  pudding,  divide 
I  Apple  dumplings,  into  as  many  pieces  as  you  want  dump<< 
i  lings ;  peel  and   core  the-  apples ;  roll  out 

your  paste,  large  enough  for  each,  and  put  them  in;  close 
I  it  all  round,  and  tie  them  in  pudding  cloths  very  tight; 
^      one    hour  will    boil  them.    When    taken  up,  dip  them  in 

cold    water,  and  put  them   in  a  cup  the  size  of  the  dump* 

lAg    while  you  untie  them,  and   they  will  turn  out  with-> 

Goi   breaking. 

Obs. — ^A  clove  or  two  in  each  dumpling,  with  a  little 
sugar,  may  be  put  at  first  with  apple;  but  sugar  and 
battdr  is    better  added  after  they    are  served  up. 

Take    half    a    seer    of  fine    flour,  two 
Plain  dumplingi.   eggs  well  beaten  up,  with  as  much  sweet 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

fermenting  toddy  as  will  make  it  into  a  light  dough;  form 
it  into  balls  the  size  and  the  shape  of  a  large  hen's  egg ; 
drop  them  into  boiling  water,  and  continue  them  over  the 
fire  in  that  state  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  serve  with 
melted  or  cold   butter   and  sugar. 

Mince  finely  half  a  pound  of  suet; 
Currant  dumpling.  mix  it  with  the  same  proportion  of 
grated  bread  crumbs  and  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  picked  currants, 
washed,  and  dried  in  a  towel,  some  pugar,  a  little  grated 
lime  peel,  nutmeg,  and  a  spoonful  of  chopped  orange 
marmalade  or  citron  with  three  'well  beaten  eggs;  roll 
the  mixture  into  round  balls,  and  tic  them  in  a  floured 
cloth  separately;  boil  for  half  an  hour,  and  serve  with 
melted  butter   and   sugar   poured   over  them. 

EoU  your  paste  out  thin,  and,  having  any 
Meatpujfs.  sort  of  meat  prepared,  such  aa^  mince  or 
force,  lay  it,  or  once  turn  it  over  either  in  a 
three  corner  or  square  shape  as  a  puff;  close  it  well 
together  with  egg  until  it  takes,  boil  and  sauce  theij 
with  high  seasoned  gravy.  Small  slices  of  any  meat  and 
well  seasoned,  will  make  au  excellent  dish  in  these 
boiled   or   fried   puffs. 

Make  a   stiff  pancake  batter ;   drop  the 

Norfolk  dumpling,    batter     by    small    spoonfuls   into     quick 

boiling     water;   let    them   boil     three   or 

four   minutes  when   they   will  be   enough   done;  drain  and 

lay   a  piece  of  fresh   butter   over  each. 

Mix  a  pound  of  finely  shred  suet  into 
Suet  dumpling,  a  pint  of  milk  and  four  well  beaten  eggs ; 
make  it  up  into  a  stiff  paste,  with  flour 
and  a  little  salt;  this  quantity  w^ill  divide  into  four;  drop 
them  into  hot  water,  and  when  they  are  ready  serve  with 
melted  butter.  More  suet  may  be  put  in  with  sugar  and 
any   kind   of  fruit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKXRT.  S89 

Put  a  blade  of  mace,  a  large  piece  of  the 
Panada.  crumb  of  bread,  and  a  quart  of  water  in  a  clean 
saucepan  ;  let  it  boil  two  minutes  ;  then  take 
oat  the  bread  and  rub  it  very  fine  in  a  basin  ;  mix  with 
it  as  much  of  the  warm  water  as  it  will  require  ;  pour 
away  the  rest,  and  sweeten  it  to  the  taste.  If  necessary, 
pat  in  a  piece  of  butter  of  the  size  of  a  walnut,  but  add 
no  wine ;    grate  in   a  little  nutmeg  if  requisite. 

Take  the  stomach  of  a  sheep ;  wash  it  perfect- 
Haggis.  Ij  clean  in  several  waters ;  turn  it,  and  scald 
the  inside  ;  scrape  and  put  it  into  cold  water 
and  let  it  soak  in  a  little  lime  water  or  strong  salt  and 
water  ;  boil  the  heart  and  liver,  so  as  they  will  grate.  Have 
ready  a  pound  of  dry  oat  meal ;  grate  the  liver,  and  chop  * 
np  fine  the  heart  with  half  a  pound  of  fine  suet ;  mix  the 
whole  well  together,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  put 
the  whole  into  the  bag ;  boil  well  in  some  good  broth, 
with  three  onions  ;  strain  and  pour  it  on  the  haggis,  and 
then  sew  it  up  carefully,  excluding  all  the  air  :  put  it  in 
boiling  water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  boil  for  two 
or  three    hours. 

Obs. — Prick  the  bag  with  a  needle  in  several  places 
to  prevent  its  bursting  ;  or,  if  it  is  too  thin,  tie  it  in 
a  cloth« 

Light,   plain  pancakes   are   made    of    a  thin 
Pancaies,    light    batter   of  milk,   eggs  and  flour,  with    salt 
L^   plain.        and  sugar ;  rub  the  frying  pan    with  a    butter- 
ed cloth ;    sift  sugar   over    them     as    they    are 
doubled    or  rolled  and    dished ;     serve   with  limes. 

Break  three  eggs  in  a  basin ;  beat  them  up 
Another.  with  a  little  nutmeg  and  salt ;  then  put  to 
them  four  ounces  and  a  haK  of  flour  and  a 
little  milk ;  beat  it  of  a  smooth  batter ;  then  add  by  de- 
grees, as  much  milk  as  will  make  it  the  thickness  of  good 
cream;    the  frying  pan    must  be    very  clean,  or  they   will 

Nl 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


290  INDIAN  D0KI8TIC  lOONOMT 

stick ;  make  it  hot ;  put  a  very  small  bit  of  batter  into 
it.;  when  it  is  melted,  pour  in  the  batter  -  to  corer  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  ;  make  them  the  thickness  of  a  half- 
crown  ;  tarn  the  pan  round  that  the  pancake  may  be 
done  equally  ;  then  give  a  sudden  jerk  to  tarn  the  pan* 
cake  on  the  other  side  ;  fry  them  of  a  light  brown ;  lastly, 
roll  and  powder  them  with  fine  sugar.  They  ^ould  be 
made  quickly,  as  they  require  many  to  make  a  diah. 
Serve  with  lemon,  orange  or  wine,  and  sugar  ;  or  they  may 
have  jelly,  fine  marmalade,   or  preserves  laid  on  very  thin. 

Pul  into  the  stew  pan  or  basin  two 
Bo.  French,  ounces  of  fine  flour,  three  ounces  of  sugar, 
a  few  macaroons  of  bitter  almonds,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  orange-flower  water,  a  little  salt,  a  pint  of 
cream,  a  glass  of  milk,  and  the  yolks  of  five  very  fresh 
eggs ;  mix  the  whole  well ;  then  clarify  two  ounces  of 
butter,  and  put  some  into  the  fryingpan ;  put  a  very  lit- 
tle of  the  mixture  into  the  pan  at  a  time;  let  it  be  done 
•— ^  on  one  side  only  and  turn  the  first  one    on    the    bottom 

/  of  a  plate  and  do  the  same  alternately,  with  the  others  ; 

arrange  them  in  an  agreeable  form,  and  when  you  are 
about  finishing,  glaze  the  last  with  fine  sugar  and  sala- 
mander it ;  put  the  plate  on  a  dish,  and  send  up 
very    hot. 

Pat  four  spoonfuls  of  fiour  into  a  basin  or 
Baiter •  dish,  with  half  a  tea-spoonful  of -salt  and  a  little 
cream  ;  moisten  with  water  \  sufficient  only  to  pre- 
vent the  paste  firom  curdling;  beat  up  the  white  of  two 
eggs,  and  mix  it  well  with  the  paste  ;  and  then  put  in 
whatever  you  may  wish  to  fry,  take  care  the  paste  is  not 
too  thick. 


.\ 


Fare  and    ocMre  some    apples;   slice    and 

Apple  frUtere.     stew  them  with   a   little  water,  sugar,   and 

lemon  peel ;  when  soft,   add   a  little    white 

wine  and  the  juice   of  half  a  lime  with   a  bit    of  butter ; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Ain>  COOKBKT.  291 

when  cold,  make  a  batter  with  three  spoonfuls  of  fine 
flour,  two  spoonfuls  of  cream,  a  glass  of  wine,  some  sugar, 
and  four  eggs ;  beat  it  all  together  verj  well ;  jput  first 
butter  or  pure  ghee  into  a  fryingpan ;  throw  the  fruit 
into  the  batter ;  take  it  out  in  spoonfuls,  and  fry 
them,  one  bj  one,  a  nice  light  brown ;  put .  them  on  a 
sieve  before  the  fire  to  dry,  and  serve  with  plenty  of 
pounded  sugar  over  them  on  a  white    napkin. 

Chop    up    the    apples  fine,  mix  them  with 

Another  way^    the  above  batter,  and  firy   in  butter   or  ghee 

a  nice  brown;  sugar  to  be  added  afterwards. 

Make  a  batter  the  same  as  for  apple, 
.  Apricot frUtern.  put  the  fruit  into  it,  and  add  the'  ker- 
\  nels ;   or  a  few  sweet  and  bitter  almonds 

may  be  put  into   the  batter. 

Feel  and  cut  limes  or  Seville  oranges 

Lemon  or  orange     across ;  take  out  the  seeds  y  boil  them  in 

fritters.  a    little     weak    syrup;    let   them    cool; 

make    a    batter    of  white   wine,    flour,   a 

little   olive    oil    and  salt;    mix    it  till  it  drops    from   the 

spoon;  dip  in  the  oranges,  and  fry  them  a  light  brown  in 

olive    oil  or   clarified    butter;    drain    them   before  the    fire 

•   upon  a  sieve;  pile  them    upon  the  dish;   sift  sugar  over, 

and  send  them  hot   to  table. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTEE    XIV. 


CAKES. 


Blanch  half  a  pound  of  sweet  and  three 
Almond  cake,  ounces  of  bitter  almonds  ;  pound  them  into 
a  paste  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  orange- 
flower  or  rose-water  ;  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar  candy  and 
a  little  brandy.  Whisk  separately  for  half  an  hour  the 
whites  and  yolks  of  twenty  eggs  ;  add  the  yolks  to  the 
almonds  and  sugari  then  stir  in  the  whites,  and  beat 
them  all  together;  butter  a  tin  pan,  put  the  cake  into  it, 
and  over  the  top  strew  pounded  sugar;  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  for  half  an   hour   or  more  as   may   be   necessary. 

Beat    one    egg    with    six  table-spoonfuls    of 
Allspice  cake,  cream ;    stir     it    over    the   fire    until    warm ; 
add   the    third  of    a    pound    of    butter,    with 
three   spoonfuls    of   sifted    sugar    and    a    spoonful    of    fine 
pounded  allspice  ;  carefully    stir  in  the  different  ingredients  * 
upon   a   slow  fire,  that   the   butter  may  be    mixed    without    < 
oiling ;  then  pour  the  whole  over  ten   or  eleven    ounces   of 
flour,  and  make  it  into  a  paste ;  roll  it   out  of  any  thick- 
ness, and  cut  out  the   cakes   of  any   size   you  please  ;  put 
them  into  the  oven   upon  a  tin,  covered  with  several  folds 
of  paper,  or  else  a  board  must   be  used  to  prevent   them 
baking  too   quickly  ;    if  baked    in    a    small    portable  oven, 
some  wood-ashes  spread    over  the   bottom    answers   all   the 
purpose  of  the  board. 

Obs. — ^Cakes   of  the  different   spice   may  be  made    in  the 
same   way   and  coloured  variously. 

Beat  well   and  separately  the  yolks    of  ten 
Bourbon.         and  the  white  of  five  eggs  \  one  pound  of  sifted 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY   AND   COOKERY.  893 

sugar ;  grate  the  peel  of  two  bitter  oranges  or  lemons ; 
blanch  and  pound  with  a  little  ro$e-water,  half  a  pound 
of  sweet  almonds;  whisk  all  these  ingredients  together 
for  half  an  hour,  and  lastly  mix  in  half  a  pound  of 
dried  and  sifted  flour;  lay  it  in  about  three  inches  deep 
into  a  papered  and  buttered  hoop,  and  bake  it  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  for  one  hour  and  a  quarter.  It  should  be  iced 
over   the  top    and    sides  while   hot. 

"  Take  thirty  good  fresh  eggs ;  three 
Brioche  paste,  pounds  of  very  dry  flour  and  two  pounds 
of  fresh  butter;  sift  and  lay  the  flour  on 
the  table;  divide  into  four  equal  parts,  and  take  one  to 
make  the  leaven;  make  a  hole  in  the  centre,  and  put  a 
large  table-spoonful  of  good  yeast  into  the  fourth  part  of 
the  flour;  then  take  some  hot  water,  pour  it  gently  over 
the  yeast,  and  mix  the  paste  directly ;  do  not  make  it  too 
liquid;  where  yeast  is  not  procurable,  good  sweet  toddy 
mus^  be  used  to  make  the  leaven ;  sprinkle  some  flour 
ovet  a  pan,  and  put  this  paste  into  it;  cover  and  set  it 
near  the  fire  to  rise  for  about  twenty  minutes;  in  t^is 
country  it  is  seldom  necessary;  when  the  yeast  or  leaven 
has  risen,  dilute  the   brioche  m  the  following  manner. 

Make  a  great  hole  in  the  remaining  three-fourths  of 
the  flour ;  sprinkle  four  small  pinches  of  salt  on  as  many 
different  places,  with  a  little  sugar  to  correct  the  bitter 
taste  of  the  yeast  should  it  be  used,  and  a  little  water  to 
melt  the  salt;  then  take  two  pounds  of  butter,  which 
break  into  small  pieces  with  your  hand,  and  put  in  the 
middle  of  the  flour.  Next  break  the  eggs  separately  over 
a  cup  or  dish  to  insure  their  being  good  and  mix  the 
whole  well  together  and  knead  the  paste ;  spread  it 
lengthways  on  the  edge  of  the  table ;  then  with  the  palms 
of  both  hands,  press  upon  it,  passing  it  by  degrees  to- 
wards the  middle  of  the  table ;  when  you  have  thus 
worked  the  whole  of  the  p^iste,  bring  it  back  again  in  the 
same   way     towards  the   edge ;    knead  it  a  second    time  in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


f  94  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  BCOMOMT 

the  same-  manner^  and  then  spread  the  yeast ;  paste  all 
over  it,  then  divide  the  whole  into  small  pieces,  and  shift 
from  one  place  to  another  :  this  is  to  mix  the  risen  part 
with  the  other  paste  properly;  then  knead  the  paste  well 
again  twice  and  gather  it  up  together;  take  a  pan,  in 
which  spread  a  towel,  and  powder  it  over  with  flour  ;  pat 
the  paste  on  it,  and  cover  it  with  the  ends  of  the  towel ; 
keep  it  in  a  cool  place.  If  the  weather  is  warm,  the 
paste  is  better  when  made  on  the  preceding  day,  and  take 
care  to  break  it  several  times  before  you  use  it;  then  cut 
it  into  equal  pieces,  and  shape  them  with  the  palms  of 
your  hands,  lay  these  on  the  less  even  side^  shape  off 
small  balls,  which  turn  also  with  your  palms  ;  brush  then 
over  with  a  beaten  egg ;  then  make  a  little  hollow,  and 
put  the  small  ball  into  it  -,  brush  twice  over  with  the  egg, 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  If  you  wish  to  make  a  large 
brioche,  you  must  make  a  very  large,  urell  buttered  paper 
case,  or  put  in  a  buttered  tin  with  paper ;  make  a  kind 
of  paste  the  same  as  for  the  small  one,  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven,  but  not  so  hot  as  is  used  for  the  small  ones  ; 
for  the  larger  the  articles  of  pastry  are,  the  less  must  the 
oven  be  heated,  as  the  borders  of  the  cakes  or  pies  would 
be  burnt  before  the  middle  parts  could  hardly  be  heated." 

Obs.-^When  you  perceive  that  the  brioche  has  colour- 
ed enough,  if  it  should  not  ,be  thoroughly  baked,  cover  it 
with  paper.  This  brioche  paste  will  serve  to  make  all 
sorts  of  little  entrem£tS|  the  only  thing  is  that  you  must 
put  sugar  over  them:  you  may  put  currants  inside,  or 
mix  with  a  little  sweet  wine  or  cream,  fruit  or  dried 
cherries ;  and  to  make  another  sort,  in  fact  by  colouring 
a  part  of  the  paste  with  a  little  saffron  soaked  in  the 
wine,  or  brush  them  over  with  the  white  of  an  €gg 
sprinkled,  or  plain  sugar  ;  cover  them  without  any  colour, 
but  take  care  to  cover  with  paper  when  sufficiently 
brown ;  give  to  all  different  forms,  by  which  you  will 
obtain  a  mulitiplicity  of  cakes,  having  the  same  paste,  but 
varying  in   flavour  and    appearance.— Kfo'*  receyoU 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  OOOKEKT.  295 

Take  one  pound  of  the  finest  soojee  and 
Bfioele  cake  make  it  into  a  dough  with  a  sufficient 
findianj.  quantity  of  toddy,  and  work  it  well;  set  it 
on  one  aide,  cover  it  with  a  cloth  and  let  it 
remain  for  two  hours,  then  beat  up  eight  eggs,  white  and 
yolk,  for  fifteen  minutes,  with  half  a  pound  of  fresh  but- 
ter and  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt;  mix  this  with  the  dough 
well  together,  and  put  into  a  tin  of  twice  its  size 
to   bake. 

Dilute  this  paste  the  same  as  the  brioche,  take 
Baia.  eight  grains  of  safiron,  infuse  in  a  little  water, 
and  then  pour  the  water  into  the  paste;  add  two 
glasses  of  madeira  or  sweet  wine,  some  currants,  raisins, 
and  a  little  sugar;  then  make  the  cakes  as  you  do  the 
brioches ;  add  to  it  half  a  pint  of  good  cream,  well 
frothed.  You  must  butter  the  mould  when  you  put  them 
in;  the  oven  must  be  moderately  hot,  as  the  babas  must 
remain  a  long  time  in;  after  one  hour  you  must  look  at 
them  and  preserve  the  colour  by  putting  paper  over  them. 
You  must  use  a  mould  with  a  chimney  in  the   middle. 

Bub  into  one  pound  of  flour,  a  quarter 
Qmmou  eaiei.  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter ;  mix  with  two 
well  beaten  eggs,  a  table-spoonful  of  fresh 
yeast,  and  as  much  warm  milk  as  will  make  the  flour 
into  a  very  thick  batter;  or  instead  of  the  yeast  and 
milk,  use  toddy  and  one  more  egg;  cover  with  a  cloth, 
and  let  it  rise  for  an  hour ;  iheu  mix  with  it  six  ounces 
of  moist  sugar,  and  half  a  pound  of  cleaned  and  dried 
currants,  let  it  remain  for  half  an  hour  more,  and  bake  it 
in  a  tin  for  an  hour. 

Scrape   the  white   part  of  the  inside   of 

Coeoanut  eake.   a    cocoanut     into    fine    white    flakes,    add 

half  a  pound  of  clear  syrup,   and  boil  to 

a    proper    thickness;    when  done,  drop   it  on    a  buttered 

dish  to  cool. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


296  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

Boil  six  ounces  of  loaf-sugar  and 
Oood  Friday  cake,  four  table- spoonfuls  of  water  to  a 
syrup,  (or  take  six  spoonfuls  of  syrup), 
beat  up  two  or  four  eggs,  and  pour  the  syrup  hot  upon 
them,  stirring  all  the  time;  add  two  ounces  of  butter,  and 
beat  all  together  for  fifteen  minutes;  then  stir  in  eight 
ounces  of  flour,  four  ounices  of  picked  currants,  one  ounce 
of  candied  lemon  peel  cut  small,  one  tea-spoonful  of  mace 
or  half  a  nutmeg  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  carbonate  of 
ammonia  dissolved  in  a  table-spoonful  of  milk;  mix  all 
together,  pour  into  a  mould,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Obs. — ^The  currants   may  .be  omitted. 

Bub  one  ounce  of  butter  into  eight 
Caraway  biscuits,  ounces  of  flour,  with  two  ounces  of 
powdered  loaf-sugar  and  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  caraway  seeds;  beat  up  one  egg,  and  add  it 
with  one  tea-spoonful  of  carbonate  of  ammonia,  dissolved 
in  four  table-spoonfuls  of' milk  to  the  flour,  and  mix  all 
together;  roll  out,  cut  into  shapes  with  a  tin  mould,  and 
bake  in   a  quick  oven. 

Half  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar,  half  a' 
Qtteen  cakes.  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs,  ten  ounces  of  floar^ 
two  ounces  of  currants,  and  half  a  nutmeg 
grated ;  cream  the  butter  and  mix  it  well  with  the  sugar 
and  spice ;  put  in  half  the  eggs,  and  beat  it  ten  minutes  ; 
add  the  remainder  of  the  eggs  and  beat  it  ten  minutes - 
longer;  stir  in  the  flour  lightly  and  the  currants  after* 
wards;  bake  a  few  minutes. 

Beat  well  together  in  a  pan,  one  pound 
Ladie^  finders,  of  sifted  sugar  with  the  yolk  of  eight 
eggs^  for  twenty  minutes;  then  add  by 
degrees,  one  pound  of  flour;  the|i  drop  the  piixture  upoi\ 
paper,  of  any  form  or  shape  you  like;  strew  sugar  over 
the  cakes  and  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven.  The  white  of  the 
eggs  is  always  to  be   added  last. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKBRY.  297 

Take  one  pound  of  fine  flour^  mix  it  into 
Plain  cake  for    a  dough  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  sweet 
eiildren.  fermenting    toddj,    and    work    it     well    for 

twenty  minutes  ;  set  it  aside  for  an  hour 
or  more  to  rise ;  beat  up  a  couple  of  eggs  with  a  table- 
spoonfol  of  butter  and  as  much  sugar^  and  work  it  into 
the  dough;  put  it  into  a  buttered  tin  or  a  paper  mould; 
bake  it  as  you   would   any  other  cake. 

06a. — ^The  dough  may  be  procured  ready-made  from 
the  baker  as  for  bread  and  a  few  carraways  or  curranta 
mixed  with  the  cake. 

Beat  one  pound  of  butter  in  an 
Plain  pound  eaie.  earthen  pan  until  it  is  like  a  fine 
^eam;  then  beat  in  nine  whole  eggs 
till  quite  light ;  pr^t  in  a  glass  of  brandy,  a  little  lime 
peel  shred  fine  ;  then  work  in  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of 
flour ;  put  it  into  the  hoop  or  pan,  and  bake  it  for  an 
hour.  A  pound  plum  cake  is  made  the  same  with  put* 
ting  one  pound  and  a  half*  of  clean  washed  currants  and 
half  a  pound  of  candied  letnon   peel. 

Beat  up  a  pound  and  a  half  of  butter  to 
Plum  cote,  a  cream ;  mix  in  one  pound  of  sugar- candy  ; 
beat  fourteen  yolks  and  seyen  whites  of  eggs 
half  an  hour;  mix  in  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  flour; 
put  in  the  peel  of  a  lime  grated,  three  ounces  of  candied 
orange  and  lemon  peel,  cut  fine  a  tea-spoonful  of  pounded 
mace,  half  a  grated  nutmeg,  a  gill  of  brandy  or  sweet 
wine,  with  four  spoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water ;  ttiit  in 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  currants,  and  a  pound  of 
stoned  raisins;  put  immediately  into  your  hoop  or  mould, 
and  bake  it  two  hours    or  more. 


The  same  as  plum,    only  adding    more     cur- 
Currant,    rants  dusted  first  with  flour. 

0  1 


Digitized  by 


Google 


298  INDIAN  DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

Cream  half  a  pound  of  batter  with  half  a 
Poundcake,  pound  of  fine  sifted  sugar  till  quite  smooth; 
beat  up  five  eggs,  white  and  yolk^  and  gra- 
dually mix  with  the  sugar  and  butter  ;  beat  the  whole  for 
twenty  minutes  or  more  ;  add  half  a  pound  of  fine  flour 
and  half  a  pound  of  currants  that  have  been  nicely  picked, 
washed,  and  plumped ;  bake  it  in  a  moderately  heated   oven. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  pounded  sugar. 
Sponge  cake,  eight  eggs,  and  six  ounces  of  fine  flouF ; 
then  whisk  the  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  toge- 
ther, for  twenty  minutes;  beat  in  the  sugar  carefully, 
and  just  before  it  is  to  be  put  into  a  buttered  tin,  stir 
in  the  flour  lightly,  adding  if  you  please  a  few  carraway 
seeds ;  bake  from  half  to  three   quarters  of  an  hour. 

A  most  excellent  plain  tea  cake  may  be 
Tea  cake,  made  by  procuring  from  the  baker  one  pound 
of  dough  as  prepared  for  bread,  then  beat  up 
the  yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs  according  to  their  size, 
with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  moist  sodit.  or  pounded;  mix 
the  whole  with  a  spoon  intb^  ijflp(^gh  and  bake  in  a 
buttered  tin  of  double   its  sissj^^ 

Obe. — Currants  or  carraway s -m^proportion  may  be  added. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  a 
Another,  quarter  of  ia  pint  of  water ;  boil  the  sugar  and 
•  water ;  skim  it  well ;  pour  in  the  liquor  boil- 
ing hot  on  six  well  beaten  eggs ;  whisk  it  till  cold ;  then. 
add  seven  ounces  of  flour  with  the  grated  peel  of  a  liuxe 
very  gradually  ;  put  into  a  cake  tin,  well  buttered,  and. 
bind  with  paper^  It  must  be  immediately  put  into  a. 
moderate  oven,  and  baked  for  three    quarters  of  an  hour^ 

I  Break  into  a  wide  dish  that  has     bee:ix 

Sponge  Hscuits.    made    quite    hot,     or    keep    it     over     hot: 
water,   nine    eggs  with  a     pound  of  silte^L 
sugar,   and  a   little  grated  lemon  peel ;  whisk  it  well  for    ^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKEET.  209 

few  miiiuies  and  then  remove  the  pan  from  the  hot  water 
and  continning  whisking  it  until  cold;  then  with  a  spoon 
stir  in  lightly  six  ounces  of  fine,  dry,  sifted  flour.  It 
must  be  immediately  put  into  your  tins  which  have  been 
prepared  as  follows :  rub  them  inside  with  butter,  sprin- 
kle with  finest  pounded  sugar,  and  bake  for  five  minutes 
in  a  brisk  oven ;  when  done,  take  them  out  of  the  pans, 
and  lay  upon  a  sieve  or  cloth. 

Beat  up  as  for  sponge  biscuits  in  a  warm 
ArrawrooL  dish,  four  eggs  with  three  spoonfuls  of  sifted 
sugar,  .one  glass  of  white  wine,  and  a  spoon- 
ful of  rose-^water  for  twenty  minutes,  adding  by  degrees, 
six  table-spoonfuls  of  the  finest  arrowroot;  put  in  buttered 
tins,  and  bake  in  a'  slow   oven. 

I  Blanch  four   ounces  of  sweet  almonds, 

Sweet  Maearoone  dry  them  well  in  the  sun,  pound  them 
or  Ratafiae.  in  a  mortar  with  half  a  pound  of  sifted 
sugar,  rub  both  weU  together,  then  add 
the  whites  of  four  eggs  one  by  one  until  the  whole  is 
formed  into  a  thinnish  paste,  drop  them  of  the  size  of 
walnuts  on  wafer  paper,  sprinkle  over  the  top  some  sliced 
almonds  and  sifted  sugar,  bake  in  a  slow  oven  of  a  light 
brown  colour  when  they  will  be  done  enough. 

Take  the  yolks  of  twelve  eggs  and  the 
S/otqfia  cake,  whites  of  six  and  beat  each  separately ;  a 
pound  of  sugar,  well  pounded;  beat  the 
yolks  till  they  are  tolerably  white;  then  add  the  sugar, 
and  beat  it  well  with  the  yolks;  blanch  and  cut  small,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  bitter  almoi^  with  the  same 
quantity  of  sweet  ditto ;  dry  three  quaiters  of  a  pound  of 
flour,  and  stir  it  by  little  at  a  time  into  the  eggs;  then 
beat  the  six  whites  into  a  froth,  and  put  it  in  by  a 
spoonful  at  a  time  as  you  stir  in  the  flour;  lastly,  the 
almonds,  put  in  your  pan  and  let  it  bake  an  hour  and 
a  half. 


Digitized  by 


by  Google 


300  INDIAN  BOKBanO  BOOKOHT 

Take  one  ounce  of  sweet  and  one  ounce 
Satafia  cakes,  of  bitter  almonds,  and  beat  them  fine  in 
a  mortar,  one  pound  of  fine  sifted  sngart 
with  the  rind  of  two  or  three  grated  limes,  mix  them  well 
together  with  the  white  of  one  egg  and  a  half,  make  them 
about  the  size  of  a  nut,  put  them  on  paper,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven* 

Brub  in  half  a  pound  of  butter  into  one 
Siort  cakes,  pound  of  finely '  sifted  flour ;  put  half  a 
pound  of  currants,  half  a  pound  of  finely 
sifted  sugar,  and  one  egg;  mix  all  together  with  three 
quarters  of  a  pint  of  milk,  roll  it  out  thin,  and  cut 
them  into  round  cakes;  lay  them  on  a  baking  tin;  about 
five   minutes  will  bake  them. 

Beat  one  pound  of  butter  till  you  turn  it 
Seedcake,  back  into  cream;  add  one  pound  of  flour,  one 
pound  of  loaf  sugar  pounded  finelyt  a  few 
carraway  seeds,  half  a  glass  of  brandy,  some  orange  peel, 
the  whites  of  twelve  eggs,  and  the  yolks  of  eight,  with  a 
little  volatile  salt  (ammonia).  The  above  quantity  will  be 
sufiBlpient  to  make  three  cakes,  and  bake  them  in  a  slow 
oven  for  an  hour   and   a  half. 

Bub  half  a  pound  of  flour  with  four  ounces 
Tea  cakes,  of  butter  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs 
and  the  white  of  one,  a  few  carraway  seeds, 
and  two  table-spoonfols  of  pounded  sugar;  mix  it  into 
a  paste  with  a  little  warm  milk,  cover  it  over,  and  let 
it  stand  for  an  hour;  roll  out  the  paste,  and  cut  it 
into  cakes  with  the  top  of  a  glass,  and  bake  them  on 
floured  tins. 

Beat    twelve    eggs,  yolks  and    whites    separ- 

Ree  cakes,    rately ;    one    pound    of    sifted    sugar,     three 

quarters    of  a    pound  of    rice-flour;  beat    all 

these    ingredients    together    for    half  an   hour,   and    before 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AMD  COOKERT.  301 

putting  it  into  a  well  buttered  cake  tin,  add  thirty  drops 
of  essence  of  lemons.  Three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  carrawaj 
seeds  may  be  added.    It  may  be  baked  in   small  tins. 

Take  a  pint  of  milk  quite  warm,  a  quarter 
Sally  Luns.  of  a  pint  of  thick  small  beer  yeast  (or  else 
good  fermenting  toddy) ;  put  into  a  pan, 
with  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  good  thick  batter;  cover 
it  over  to  rise  for  two  hours ;  then  add  two  ounces  of  fine 
pounded  sugar,  four  eggs,  well  beaten  and  mixed  toge- 
ther; rub  into  your  flour  four  ounces  of  butter,  and 
make  your  dough  not  quite  as  stiff  as  for  bread;  let 
it  stand  half  an  hour;  then  make  up  your  cakes,  and 
put  them  on  tins ;  let  them  stand  to  rise,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Take  of  fine  flour,  butter  and  sifted 
Tweyih  cake,  sugar  of  each  two  pounds,  eighteen  eggs, 
four  pounds  of  currants,  of  almonds  pound- 
ed and  blanched  half  a  pound,  citron,  candied  orange  and 
lemon  peel  of  each  half  a  pound,  and  cut  into  thin  slices ; 
a  nutmeg  grated,  allspice,  half  an  ounce  ground  cinna- 
mon, mace,  ginger,  and  corianders,  of  each  quarter  of  an 
ounce,  finely  pounded,  and  a  large  wine-glass  of  brandy; 
work  the  butter  into  a  smooth  cream  with  the  hand,  and 
mix  with  the  sugar  and  spice  in  a  pan  for  some  time; 
then  break  in  the  eggs  by  degrees,  and  beat  it  at  least 
twenty  minutes;  stir  in  the  brandy  and  then  the  flour, 
and  work  it  a  little  ;  add  the  fruit,  sweetmeats,  and  al- 
monds^ and  mix  all  together  lightly;  have  ready  a  hoop 
or  tin  cased  with  paper,  on  a  baking-plate;  put  in  the 
mixture,  smooth  it  on  the  top  with  a  little  milk ;  bake  it 
in  a  slow  oven  four  hours  or  more;  ice  it  the  moment 
it  is   drawn  from  the  oven. 

Ob9. — ^Previous  to  baking,  put  a  thick  paste  of  flour 
and  water  under  it,  in  order  to  preserve  the  bottom  from 
scorching. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


308  INDIAN    DOMESTIC  BCONOMY 

To  two  pounds  of  fine  flour,  put  half  a  pound 
Buns,  of  clean  moist  sugar,  make  a  hole  in  the  centre^ 
and  stir  in  half  a  gill  of  good  yeast  and  half  a 
pint  of  warm  milk  (or  as  much  good  toddj  and  warm 
milk  as  is  equal  to  the  same  quantity);  mix  it  with 
enough  of  the  flour  to  make  it  the  thickness  of  cream, 
cover  it  over  with  a  towel,  and  let  it  lie  two  hours  ;  then 
melt  or  dissolve  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  not  too 
hot;  stir  it  into  the  other  ingredients,  with  enough  milk 
and  toddy  to  make  it  into  a  soft  paste;  throw  a  little 
flour  over,  and  let  it  lie  an  hour;  have  ready  a  baking 
tin  rubbed  over  with  butter;  mould  with  the  hand  the 
dough  into  buns  the  size  of  an  egg ;  •  lay  them  -  in  the 
platter  in  rows  three  inches  apart ;  set  them  aside  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise  for  half  an  hour  or  until  they  have 
become  double  their  size ;  bake  them  in  a  hot  oven  of  a 
good  colour,  and  just  before  taking  from  it,  wash  them 
over  with   a   brush  dipped  in  milk. 

Are  made  of  the  same    mixture,  only  add 

Cross  buns       three     quarters     of    an    ounce     of    allspice, 

cinnamon,     and    mace,    mixed    and  pounded. 

When  the   buns  have  risen,   press  in  the  form   of  a  cross, 

with  a  tin  mould  made  on  purpose,  or  one  of  wood. 

To  the  same  mixture  put  half  a  pound  of 
Plum  buns,  currants,  four  ounces  of  candied  orange  peel 
cut  into  small  pieces,  half  a  nutmeg  grated, 
half  an  ounce  of  mixed  spices,  and  mould  the  whole  into 
buns ;  jag  them  round  the  edge  of  the  dish  with  a  knife, 
and   proceed   as   with  plain  buns. 

A  quarter  measure  of  rolong,  one  tea- 
To  make  buns.  cupful  of  toddy,  quarter  cup  of  butter,  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  milk,  made  warm;  yolk 
of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  a  little  salt,  cinnamon,  cloves, 
and  nutmeg,  pounded  fine ;  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cur* 
rants,    two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar;  mix  the  rolong,  toddy. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  303 

and  milk  together ;  put  it  in  the  sun  covered  over  till 
risen;  then  mix  in  the  other  ingredients;  divide  it  into 
six  round  cakes;  rub  each  bun  over  with  white  of  egg; 
bake  them  one  hour. 

Having  mixed  one  pound  and  a  half  of 
American  buns,  flour  and  half  a  pound  of  butter,  finely 
together^  add  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  high 
froth,  four  tea-cupfuls  of  milk,  half  a  wine-glassful  of 
brandy,  and  a  wine-glassful  each  (of  yeast  or  toddy)  wine 
and  rose-water;  sift  in  a  pound  of  flour/  beat  the  lumps 
fine,  form  into  buns  and  set  to  rise  for  four  hours  on  the 
tin   in  which  they   are   to  be  baked. 

To  two  pounds  of  flour  made  into  a  dough 
BatA  buns,  with  toddy,  add  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter, 
some  nutmeg  and  salt,  the  well  beaten  yolk 
of  two  eggs  and  the  white  of  one,  and  six  spoonfuls  of 
cream;  cover  it  and  let  it  rise  for  a  couple  of  hours  or 
more;  then  shake  in  four  ounces  of  carraway  comfits,  form 
the  buns  and  strew  a  few  over  the  top,  and  bake  them 
over,  buttered  tins. 

Sift  a  pound  of  flour,  and  rub  in  half  a  pound 
Another.  of  butter  r  add  a  spoonfal  of  yeast  or  equal  parts 
of  cream  and  toddy  as  will  make  it  into  dough ; 
let  it  rise,  add  an  ounce  of  small  carraway  comfits,  make 
it  up  in  small  rolls  or  cakes,  and  strew  an  ounce  of  the 
comfits  over. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTEE   XVII. 


BAKING. 

Take  two  pounds  of  good,  dry  flour^  and  a 
Bread,  lea-spoonful  of  salt;  place  it  on  a  pasteboard, 
slab,  or  table ;  pour  into  the  centre  a  portion  of 
good  fresh  toddy  that  is  in  a  state  of  fermentation; 
knead  this  into  a  tolerable  stiff  dough  for  twenty  minutes 
or  m6re ;  then  set  it  aside  on  a  dish  to  rise ;  cover  with 
a  cloth,  and  generally  it  will  be  fit  for  the  oven  in  two 
or  three  hours ;  divide  into  loaves  or  rolls,  sprinkling  the 
surface  of  the  slab  or  table  on  which  it  is  divided  with 
a  little  flour  to  prevent  its  sticking.  The  more  the 
dough  is  worked  the  better  and  lighter  the  bread. 

03«.— Where  toddy  from  either  the  date  or  palmyra  is 
not  to  be  had,  a  fermenting  liquid  may  be  made  by 
soaking  fresh  dry  peas,  or  dhal,  split,  in  warm  water,  until 
fermentation  commences;  this  liquid  strained  is  to  be 
used  to  raise  the  dough. 

Is  to  be  made    in  the   same  way,  only 
Brown  bread      flour  that  has  not   had  all  its  bran  sifted 
from   it  is    to   be  used,  a    little  more  fer- 
menting liquid  is  required,  and    kneading    the    dough    for 
a  longer  time. 

Mix  three  pounds  ^f  flour  and  a  quarter  of 

SubsUCute    an  ounce  of  carbonate  of  soda  along  with    the 

for yeaaU ^^tjol  quantity   of    salt;  knead    the  whole,   up 

with  sour  butter-milk ;   if  very  sour,  half  water 

and  half  butter-milk  will  do,  but    all  butter-milk   is  pre- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN  DOHlSnC  ECOXOlfT  AND   COOKERY.  305 

lerable.  The  dough  will  be  ready  for  baking  in  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour  as  the  fermentation  goes  on  while  kneading, 
but  it  will  take  no  harm  by  standing  one>  two,  or  three 
hours ;  the  butter-milk  must  be  acid,  the  soda  pounded 
small  and  well  mixed  with  the  flour,  and  the  oven  brisk, 
or  the  bread  will  probably  be  not  so  good,  and  will  taste  of 
the  soda. 

Obi. — In  making  rolls  or  loaves,  it  is  necessary  when 
cutting  the  piece  from  the  mass  of  sponge,  that  it  should 
be  kneaded  with  a  little  flour,  sufficient  to  keep  it  from 
adhering  to   the  board. 

Flour  one  pound,  jaggery  or  treacle 
Parliament  6»»-  one  pound,  butter  two  ounces,  carbonate 
per  bread.  of    soda    one    tea-spoonful.     The    jaggery, 

if  used,  to  be  melted  over  the  fire  in  a 
very  little  water  till  it  is  of  the  consistence  of  thick  trea- 
cle ;  mix  well  the  flour  and  soda  ;  then  rub  in  the  butter, 
afterwards  pour  in  the  treacle  ;  mix  it  and  knead  it  well, 
keep  it  covered  until  the  next  day,  roll  it  out  thin,  and 
cut  it  into  flat  cakes  with  a  tin  of  a  proper  shape,  notch- 
ed at  the  edges. 

Take  one  pound  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a 
Ginger  bread,  pound  of  ginger,  a  pint  of  water,  two 
pounds  of  flour,  and  six  ounces  6f  candied 
orange  peel ;  pound  and  sift  the  ginger,  and  add  a  pint 
of  water  ;  boil  it  five  minutes,  then  let  it  stand  till  cold  ; 
pound  the  preserved  orange  peel,  and  pass  it  through  a 
hair  sieve  ;  put  the  flour  on  a  pasteboard,  make  a  hole  in 
the  centre,  and  put  in  the  orange  peel  and  ginger,  with 
the  boiled  water  ;  mix  this  up  to  a  paste,  and  roll  it  out ; 
prick  the  cakes  before  balding   them. 

Plour  and  treacle    each  one  pound,  butter  one 

Another*      ounce,    sub-carbonate   of  magnesia  one  ounce   or 

one  and  a  half^   with  two  ounces    of  the    usual 

Pl 


Digitized  by 


Google 


306  INDIAN   DOKESnC   ICONOUT 

spices,  principally  ginger;  to  which  is  added  cit^namon, 
nutmeg,  allspice,  cayenne  pepper,  and  in  the  inferior 
kinds,  black  pepper.  This  is  fit  for  baking  in  a  few 
hours^  time* 

Ploar  two  pounds,  sub-carbonate  of  magnesia 
Another.  half  an  ounce,  treacle  or  thick  jaggery  syrup 
one  pound,  butter  two  ounces,  mixed  spices  to 
the  palate  four  ounces,  tartaric  acid  one  quarter  of  a 
ounce,  water  a  sufficient  quantity  to  make  into  dough. 
This  is  ripe  for   the  oven  in  half   an   hour. 

Half  a   pound   of  dry  ginger   pounded   and 
Ginger  bread  sifted,  three  pounds  of  jaggery  or  goor,    cla- 
nuts.  rified   with  a    little     water;   and     the    white 

of  eggs  boiled  to  the  consistence  of  treacle, 
two  pounds  of  good  butter  beat  to  a  cr^am,  two  and  a 
half  pounds  of  plain  flour,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one 
tolah  weight  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  mace  pounded,  also 
a  nutmeg ;  four  table-spoonfuls  of  carraways,  and  half  a 
pound  of  preserved  orange  peel  finely  chopped  up  :  mix 
all  well  together,  and  knead  it  into  a  paste  ;  let  it  stand 
for  two  or  three  hours  ;  then  roll  out  thin,  and  cut  with 
a   wine-glass  ;   put   in  the  oven  to   bake. 

Take  two   eggs  well    beaten  up,    one    cup 

Ginger   Nuts,  of  flour,  half  a  cup   of  sugar,    two   chittacks 

plain.  of  butter,  and   two   spoonfuls   of  ginger  ;   mix 

all   together,   and    it    will  make   four    dozen. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one   pound  of  jaggery 
Anotlier.  boiled   to   a   thick   syrup,  with   a   little   water, 

four  ounces  of  candied  preserve  cut  small, 
twelve  ounces  of  moist  brown  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  but* 
tcr  creamed,  one  and  a  half  ounce  of  ground  ginger,  with 
half  an  ounce  of  carraway  seeds ;  mix  all  well  together, 
and  let  it  stand  for  three  or  four  hours  ;  make  into  nuts^ 
and  bake  on  a  tin. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKIET.  307 

Take  tiro  pounds  of  flour  ;  mix  well  three 
Another,  chittacks  of  butter  ;  then  add  one  ounce  of 
powdered  ginger,  one  ounce  of  carraway  seeds, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda ;  having  done  this, 
beat  two  eggs  well  up,  and  mix  them  with  two  pounds  of 
treacle,  cold;  add  the  flour  by  degrees,  until  firm,  and 
make   into   thick*  cakes   and   bake  them    slowly. 

Mix  a  pound  of  almond  paste  with  a  pound 
Almond  of  sifted  sugar,  two  ounces  of  rice-flour,  and 
bUcuiU.  six  eggs ;  mix  well ;  season  with  mace,  cloves, 
cinnamon,  and  lemon  zest ;  butter  the  moulds, 
fill,  and  sift  sugar  over.  A  very  little  time  bakes  them  ; 
they  may  be  coloured,  pearled,  or  powdered,  with  citron, 
pistachio,   almonds,  nuts,   &c. 

Take  a  pouni  of  the  finest  flour  ;  add  a  tea- 
BiscuiU.  spoonful  of  salt;  mix  it  with  cold  water  very 
carefully  into  as  thick  a  paste  as  possible ;  beat 
it  out  with  a  rolling  pin,  cut  it  into  pieces,  lay  them  one 
over  the  other,  and  again  beat  it  out ;  roll  it  very  thin, 
cut  with  a  tumbler  or  glass  into  biscuits,  and  prick  them 
well  with  a  fork  ;  or  else  roll  them  into  small  balls,  and 
press   with     a  stamp. 

To  one  pound  of  flour,  add  eight  ounces 
Sweet  biscuits,  of  pounded  sugar,  two  beaten  eggs,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  carraway  seeds,  and  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter ;  mix  all  well  together,  roll  it 
out  thin,  cut  into  biscuits,  prick  with  a  fork  and  bake 
upon  a  tin. 

Dissolve  four  ounces  of  butter  in  a  quar- 
Milk  Hscuiti.  ter  of  a  pint  of  warm  milk,  and  make  it 
into  a  stiff  paste  with  two  pounds  of  flour ; 
beat  and  work  it  perfectly  smooth,  roll  it  out  very  thin, 
and  cut  into  biscuits  ;  prick  them  well  with  a  fork,  and 
bake  them  upon  a   tin    in  a  quick   oven. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


.308  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY  AND   COOKERT. 

Obs, — ^You  may  make  these  biscuits  sweet  and  lighter 
bj  adding  a  small  tea-spoonful  of  pounded  sal  volatile 
(carbonate  of  ammonia),  and  after  working  it  up  well,  let 
it  stand  to  rise  for  two  or  three  hours,  covered  with  a 
doth  ;  then  divide  as  above  directed. 

Beat  half  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar  with  four 
Carraway  eggs,  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  well  together; 
drops,  then  add  two  ounces  of  carraway  seed,  and  ten 
ounces  of  flour ;  lay  some  paper  on  your  tins, 
put  the  mixture  into  a  biscuit  funnel  and  drop  it  out  the 
size  of  a  company's  rupee  ;  sift  sugar  over,  and  bake  it 
in  a  hot   oven. 

Are  made  in  the  same  manner  as 
Savoy  biscuits  drops,  only  omitting  the  carraways  and 
two  ounces  less  flour ;  put  them  in  the 
biscuit  funnel,  and  lay  them  the  length  and  breadth  of 
your  'finger  on  common  paper;  strew  some  sugar  over, 
and  bake  in  a   hot  oven. 

Stick   drop  biscuits  with  caramel  in  any   form 
Caramel     of  basked,    oval»   round,     contracted   at   the   top^ 
basked,    or  with  an  overlying  edge  without  any    ornament, 
or  like  a  vase,   cup  or   basin. 

Obs. — These     are  very     ornamental    for  a    supper   table, 
and  may  be  filled  with  preserved  fruits,   &c. 

Biscuit  Is   simply   dry,  plain    biscuits    pounded  ;    and 

powder    to  insure    its     being    pure  and    free  from    dirt, 
make  it  at    home. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTEE    XVIII 


SWEET  DISHES,  Etc. 

almonds        May   be  served  at    the  dessert  in    their   skins 
or  blanched. 


-Put  them  on  the  table  with  their  shells  unbrok- 
en, and  when  required  for  cakes^  &c.,  they  are  better  for 
being  blanched   the  day  before. 

Put  a  pint  of  cream  on  a  slow  fire,  with 
Almond  eight  eggs  that  have  been  well,  beaten  and 
butter,  strained ;  stir  them  one  way  until  they  are 
ready  lo  boil ;  then  add  a  glass  of  any  rich 
sweet  wine,  and  continue  stirring  it  until  it  eurdles; 
strain  oflf  the  whey;  pound  the  curd  with  two  ounces  of 
almond  paste  and  a  couple  of  spoonfuls  of  pounded 
sugar;  put  it  into  patty  pans,  or  turn  it  out  in  small 
fancy  moulds.    To    be  eaten  with  bread  or  sweet  zests. 

Blanch     one    pound     of    sweet,    with    half    an 
Almond    ounce   of  bitter  almonds ;  put  them  into  a  mortar . 
patste.    with    one   pound  of  sugar-candy;  beat  the  whole 
into  a   fine  paste,   adding    orange-flower,   rose,  or 
plain  water  in  a   sufiicient  quantity  to  keep  from  oiling. 

Should    be    blanched  like    almonds  in    hot 

Walnuts  for    water,    and    the    skin    taken    off ;  they    are 

dessert  much     more     wholesome    in     this     way,  and 

saves   a   great   deal  of  trouble ;  if  the   walnuts 

are  old,   soak  them    for   an  hour  in  milk. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


310  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

Boil  slowly  a  pint  and  a  half  of  good 
Blancmange,  cow's  or  buffaloe's  milk  with  an  ounce  of 
picked  isinglass,  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon 
peeled  very  thin,  a  little  cinnamon  and  a  little  mace  and 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  pounded  sugar;  blanch  and  pound 
eight  bitter,  and  half  an  ounce  of  sweet  almonds  very  fine, 
with  a  little  rose  or  orange-flower  water,  and  mix  them 
with  the  milk;  strain  it  through  a  napkin  into  a  basin, 
with  half  a  pint  of  good  cream ;  give  it  a  warm  up :  then 
pour  it  into  a  jug  or  basin,  and  let  it  stand  for  half  an 
hour  for  any  sediment  to  fall  to  the  bottom  ;  when  it  begins 
to  cool,  fill  your  moulds;  when  wanted,  put  your  fingers 
round  the  blancmange  and  take  it  out  and  set  carefully  in 
the   centre   of  your  dish. 

N,  B. — A  glass  of  noyeau  may  be  substituted  for  the 
almonds  or  a   few  peach  leaves  boiled  in  the  milk. 

Put  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a   tea-cup   of 
Blancmange^     water   and     dissolve  it   gently    over   the   fire ; 
j^lain.  then  take   a   quart  of  rich  bufialoe-milk,  and 

put  the  peel  of  a  lime  cut  very  thin,  a  few 
peach-leaves,  a  little  cinnamon  and  mace  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  pounded  sugar  and  the  dissolved  isinglass,  and 
give  it  a  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  stirring,  the  whole  time ; 
then  strain  through  a'  napkin  and  let  it  settle  and  cool, 
when   pour   it  into   your  moulds. 

Obi, — ^To  remove  it,  dip  the  mould,  if  necessary,  for  a 
second  or  two,  in  warm  water,  clap  it  with  the  hand  to 
loosen  the  edge,  put  your  dish  over  the  mould,  and  turn 
it    out  quickly. 

Make  a  small  hole  at  the   end  of  as  many 

Blancmange     eggs  as   you  please ;   let  out  all  the   egg  care- 

^999  for  a    fully ;  wash     and  drain   the  shells ;    then   fill 

ien'^nesL    with  blancmange;   place   them  in   a  deep  dish 

with   clean   sand   to   keep   them  steady,  or  any 

grain  will  answer;  when   cold  and    firm,  remove  and  gently 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AKB   COOKBHY.  311 

break  off  the  shell ;  cut  the  peel  of  a  lemon  into  delicately 
fine  shreds,  and  lay  the  eggs  upon  it  or  put  them  into 
coloured  cream  or  upon  candied  lemon  or  orange  peel. 
This  latter  is  then  calledi,   ''A   hen's   nest/' 

Mix  half  a  pint  of  cold  water  with  two 
Arrowroot  ounces  of  good  arrowroot;  let  it  settle  for 
blancmange,  fifteen  minutes ;  pour  off  the  water ;  add  a 
little  peach-leaf  water  or  almond  essence  in 
water,  and  a  little  sugar;  sweeten  a  quart  of  new  milk; 
boil  it  with  a  little  cinnamon  and  the  peel  of  a  lime,  cut 
very  thin;  strain  through  a  napkin  upon  the  arrowroot, 
stirring  it  all  the  time,  and  give  it  a  simmer  upon  the 
fire ;  put  it  into  a  mould,  and  serve  the  following   day. 

Put  a  tea-cupful  of  whole  rice  into  the  least 
JRiee  hlanc-  water  possible,  till  it  almost  bursts ;  then  add 
mange,  half  a  pint  of  good  milk  or  thin  cream,  and 
boil  till  it  is  quite  a  mash,  stirring  it  the 
whole  time  it  is  on  the  fire,  that  it  may  not  burn ;  flavour 
with  spices,  lemon  peel,  &c.,  and  sweeten  with  pounded 
sugar  added  with  the  milk,  and  take  out  the  lemon  peel 
before  you  put  it  in  the  mould ;  dip  a  shape  in  cold  water 
and  do  not  dry  it ;  put  ifi  the  rice,  and  let  it  stand 
until  quite  cold ;  when  it  will  turn  easily  out.  This  dish 
is   eaten  with   cream  or   custard   and   preserved    fiuits. 

Slice  some  bread  nicely,  lay  it  in  the  bottom 
White  poU  of  a  dish,  and  cover  it  over  with  marrow ;  sea- 
son a  quart  of  cream  or  new  milk  with  nut- 
meg, mace,  cinnamon,  and  sugar ;  boil  and  strain  it ;  beat 
six  yolks  and  put  them  to  the  cream  and  pour  it  over  the 
bread ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  sift  sugar  over  it,  or 
rasped  almonds,  citron,   orange   peel  and  sugar. 

£lanch  and  pound  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of 

Almond      orange-flower  water,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  al- 

Custard,  monds ;   add  rather  more  than  a   pint  of  cream 


Digitized  by 


Google 


S12  INDIAN    DOMESTIC  SCONOlfY 

or  milk  and  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  five  eggs ;  sweeten 
with  pounded  loaf-sugar;  stir  it  over  a  slow  fire  till  it 
thickens ;  do  not  let  it  boil ;  serve  in  a  glass  dish ;  pal 
over   the   top   sifted   loaf-sugaf  or   grated  nutmeg. 

Blanch  and  pound  six  ounces  of  sweet,  and 
Another,  half  an  ounce  of  bitter  almonds  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sifted  sugar  and  a  large  spoonful 
of  rose-water ;  add  this,  by  degrees,  to  a  pint  of  warm 
milk  that  has  been  flavoured  with  a  little  cinnamon  and 
lemon  peel;  strain  the  whole  through  a  fine  sieve  and 
add  a  pint  of  cream  with  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  the 
white  of  three,  well  beaten;  put  over  the  fire,  and  stir 
until  it  is  of  a  good  thickness;  then  remove  from  the 
fire,  and  continue  stirring  until  nearly  cold  to  prevent 
its   curdling. 

Ofo.— rThis   may   be  baked  in  cups  or   in   a   dish,    with  a 
puflF  paste   round   it. 

Beat  up  one  pint  of  cream  to  a  froth  with 
Medeira  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar ' 
custard,  dissolve  one  ounce  of  isinglass  and  stir  it  in 
together  with  six  glasses  of  madeira;  beat  all 
well  together  and  pour  it  into  the  dish  it  is  to  be  served 
in :  it  must  stand  in  a  cool  place  three  or  four  hours  : 
serve  sweet   cakes   with   it. 

Sweeten  a  quart  of  good  milk  with 
Plain  custard.  pounded  sugar ;  boil  it  with  a  bit  of  cin- 
namon, and  the  peel  cut  thin  of  a  lime, 
and  if  you  wish  to  flavour  it  of  almonds,  add  three 
pounded  bitter  ones,  or  four  or  five  peach  leaves;  strain 
it,  and,  when  a  little  cooled,  mix  in  gradually  the  well 
beaten  yolks  of  ten  eggs ;  stir  it  over  a  slow  fire  until  it 
is  perfectly  thick;  pour  it  into  a  basin,  and  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  brandy  or  noyeau ;  keep  stirring  it  every  now 
and   then   till   cold. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKSRY.  313 

Obs. — This  makes  the  custard  thick  enough  for  baking, 
or  to  put  into  a  trifle ;  for  glasses  four  eggs  is  sufficient 
for  a  pint  of  milk.  Two  pr  three  bitter  almonds  blanch- 
ed and  pounded  into  a  paste,  may  be  added.  The  whites 
should  always  be  turned  to  account,  and  not  wasted ;  they 
answer  for  lemon  cream,  trifle,  or  may  be  boiled  and  cut 
into  zests,   &c. 

Sweeten  the  strained    juice  of    ten  oranges 
thanqe  with  pounded   sugaV,   stir   it  over   the  fire  till 

custard.       hot,  take  off  the  scum,   and   when  nearly  cold, 
add  to  it  the  beaten  yolks  of  ten  eggs  and  a 
pint  of  cream  ;   put  it  into  a  saucepan,    and  stir  it  over 
the   fire  until  it  thickens  ;   be  careful   not  to    let  it    boil ; 
serve  in  glasses  or  a  dish. 

Is  prepared   by   adding  cold   milk   and  su- 

Mangoefool      gar  to   the   pulp  of  green  boiled  mangoes  in 

such    quantity    as     the    maker  chooses  ;    the 

milk  must  be  added  by  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  it  well 

with  the  mangoes,  otherwise  it   will  not   be  smooth. 

Take  a  good  sized  lemon  or  three  limes. 
Lemon  or  and  squeeze  the  juice  into  a  large  bowl  or 

orange  cream,  pan  ;  make  it  very  sweet ;  pare  some  of 
the  rind  thin,  and  put  it  into  the  pan  ; 
put  three  pints  of  boiling  hot  cream  into  a  teapot^  and 
setting  the  pan  on  the  ground,  pour  the  cream  upon  the 
lemon,  holding  the  teapot  high  that  it  dribble  ;  some  one 
should  be  stirring  the  bowl  as  you  pour  in  the  cream  to 
mix  well  the  lemon  ^nd  sugar  ;  it  will  then  be  fit  for 
use.  One  orange  and  half  a  lemon  is  very  good,  but 
orange  alone  requires   more  juice. 

Seweten  a  quart  of  cream  ;  boil  and  skim  it 

Fyramid        and  boil  it    again  till  all  the    cream  that  will 

cream.       rise  has  been  procured;   add  any  seasoning  or 

lemon  juice  to    it,     which    will   make    it  very 


Digitized  by 


Google 


812  INDIAN    DOMESTIC   SCONOlfT 

or   milk  and   the  well   beaten  yolks   of  five  ejp^ 
with   pounded    loaf-sugar;    stir  it   over   a   sl^ ^ 
thickens ;   do  not   let  it  boil ;  serve  in   a  /  ^^      ^ 
over   the   top   sifted   loaf-sugaf  or   grated  -    ^  ^     ^ 

Blanch    and    pound   six^l-^  ^  ^^     ^ 
Another,     half  an  ounce  of  bitter  £  g  ^  |^  ^  •^' 
spoonfuls  of   sifted   su^  ^  ^^  jf  5   iJ 
of  rose-water ;   add    this,    by  f     ^  ^  ^  ^  .^   ^^ 
milk   that  has   been   flavoure*'^       ^  ^  P'  i5    ^   C 
lemon   peel;   strain    the    vrV^:       ^  i  -:*  ^^   ^,  f 
add   a  pint   of  cream  wit^/^        ^  ^  #i   t-    ^.  ""^ 
white   of  three,    well   b^/l^         t  :'  ij   ' 
until   it  is    of  a  goof^  fa         ,1  ^ 

fire,    and    continue  ^^^  /  ^|  ^^^ly 

its   curdling.  f^iP^  .    very    thin; 

Ofe.-rThis   r   p  '^  ^  ^1^^^®  ^^^''  *^®  ^^ 

puff  paste   ro      '  •  ^'^^^  "^^^^J  <5<>1<*\  ^tir  in 

-*ower  or   rose-water. 

^ith  a  quart  of  cream,  the  thinly  pared 
Meddra  ,.  of  a   large   lemon,   or  three   limes   and  four 

cusf       spoonfuls  of  strained  juice;    sweeten  with  pound- 
ed sugar,  whisk  it  in   a    large  pan,   and,   as  the 
^^  ^  rises,  lay  it  on   a  sieve  or  a    strained    cloth  over   a 
*  j^ ;   as   it  drains,  continue  to  pour  the   cream  back  into 
^e  pan   until  it  is  all   done;  remove  the  lemon  peel,  put 
g  piece  of  inuslin  into  an    earthen-ware  or  tin   shape  with 
holes   in  it,  fill  it    with   the    whipt   cream  heaped   as  high 
as   possible,     set    it   in     a    cool    place,    and    turn   it    out 
in  twelve  hours. 

Ohs. — ^This  cream  had  better  be  served  in  a  glass  dish 
as  soon  after  it  is  made  as  possible.  It  does  not  stand 
long  in  this  climate. 

Sweeten     a  pint   of  cream    with   fine  pounded 

Italian        sugar ;   boil  it  with  the  thinly  pared    rind  of  a 

cream,    ripe    lime    and    a    bit  of  cinnamon ;  strain    and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


\ 


ANB   COOKERY.  315 


e- 


*{th   half  an   ounce   of  dissolved  isinglass;    add  it 
o  the  well  beaten  yolk  of  six  eggs ;  stir  it  till 
^  ^   put   it  into   a  shape  or  mould. 

*^^    '^  U    two    table-spoonfuls     of  strained  lime 

\^     "^  'pon   four  spoonfuls   of  pounded   sugar  ; 

^         sk  table-spoonfuls     of  brandy   and   one 

^%^  \  from    one   cup  into  another  until 

^    ^^    %.  ^*      'C\  '   cream  with  the  peel  of  a 

^  %^**^*y  ''*rH  ^  sweeten     it  with  pounded 

V'-Cr^'^^^''''  *  ^^®  y°"^   ^f    six   eggs 

'J,  •^^  oie-spoonful  of   arrowroot 

jje-flower    water   and   of  ratafia; 

^  w  hen  cold  mix  it  with  the  eggs  and 

vir  it  over  the  fire  until    it  is   as   thick  as 

.  ,  put  it  into  a  dish^  strew   sifted  sugar  over  the 

and  brown  with  a   salamander:   serve  it  cold. 

Beat  with  the  yolk  of  four   eggs  a  table- 
Anoth&r  spoonful  of  flour^   the  grated  peel  of  a  lime, 

Ifnitatio»m  and  three  pounded  bitter  almonds ;  sweeten 
it  with  sugar,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  till  it 
becomes  as  thick  as  a  custard ;  put  it  in  the  dish  it  is  to 
be  served  in ;  boil  with  a  little  water  some  pounded  sugar- 
candy  until  it  becomes  brown,  but  do  not  stir  it  till 
taken  off  the  fire ;  by  degrees  pour  it  in  figures  over  the 
top   of  the  cream.    It  may   be  eaten  cold. 

Steep    the    thinly    pared    rinds    of    eight 
Zemonjimi      limes   in  a   pint   of  water,   for  twelve  hours; 
cream.  strain  and   dissolve  it  in  three  quarters   of   a 

pound  of  sifted  sugar  and  the  juice  of  the 
limes  strained,  and  the  well  beaten  whites  of  seven  with 
the  yolk  of  one  egg;  boil  it  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  it 
constantly  one  way,  till  it  is  like  a  thick  cream,  and  pour 
it  into    a  glass  dish. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


316  INDIAN    DOMESTIC    ICONOMY 

Put   six  ounces  of  raspberry  jam  to  a  quart 

Raspherry    of  cream ;   pulp  it   through  a  fine    sieve ;  mix  it 

cream.      with    the  juice    of  a    lime    or    two    and  some 

pounded    sugar;    whisk  it    till  thick;    serve  in 

..a   dish   or  glasses. 

Eub  on  a  lump  of  sugar  the  rind  of  two 
Italian      limes  or  a  lemon  and  scrape   it  off  with  a  knife 

cream,  into  a  deep  dish  or  China  bowl,  and  add  half  a 
wine-glass  of  brandy ,  two  ounces  and  a  half  of 
sifted  sugar,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  two  limes  and  a  pint 
of  thick  cream,  and  beat  it  up  well  with  a  clean  whisk: 
in  the  mean  time,  boil  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  water  till  quite  dissolved ;  strain  it  to  the  other 
ingredients;  beat  it  some  time  and  fill  your  mould;  and 
when  cold  and  set  well,  turn  it  out  on  a  dish  and  garnish 
with  candied  orange  or  lemon  peel  cut  in  slices  and 
place  round. 

Ofe. — It  may  be  frothed    with   a  chocolate  miller. 

Boil  half  a  stick  of  vanilla  in  a  quarter 
Vanilla  cream,  of  a  pint  of  new  milk  until  it  has  a  very 
high  flavour;  have  ready  a  jelly  of  an 
ounce  and  a  half  of  isinglass  to  a  pint  of  water ;  which 
mix  with  the  milk  and  a  pint  of  fine  cream ;  sweeten  with 
fine  sugar  unbroken,  and  stir  till  nearly  cold;  then  dip 
a  mould  into  cold  water  and  pour  the  whole  into  it  ; 
make  it  the  day  before  it  is  wanted,  or  else  set  it  in  ice 
to   get  firm. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  your  dish  with  sponge 
Trifle.  cakes  or  Naples  biscuits  divided  into  quarters, 
with  some  broken  maccaroons  or  ratafia  cakes ; 
just  wet  them  through  with  sweet  white  wine  or  any 
other ;  cover  the  maccaroons  with  raspberry  jam,  or  any 
other  jam  with  some  guava  jelly  ;  then  pour  over  a  rich 
thick  custard,  and  cover  the  whole  with  a  whipt  cream 
as  high    as   you   can  place    it,  sprinkling  trifle  ^  comfits   on 


Digitized  by 


Google 


£ND   COOKERY.  317 

the  top ;  or  garnish  with  different  colored  sweetmeats. 
Make  your  whip  astfollows  :  Mix  in  a  large  bowl  a  quar- 
ter of  a  poand  of  finely  sifted  sugar^  the  jmee  of  two 
lemons^  some  of  the  peel  grated  fine,  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  brandy  or  noyeau  and  one  of  sweet  wine,  and  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  good  cream  ;  whisk  the  whole  well  and  take 
off  the  froth  as  it  rises  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  it  on  a 
sieve ;  continue  to  whisk  it  till  you  have  enough  to 
cover  your  trifle. 

06s. — ^A  little  noyeau  or  marisquino  may  be  added  to 
the  sponge  cake ;  in  fact  it  may  be  flavoured  as  fancy 
directs,   and  covered  with  everlasting  syllabub. 

Beat  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  until  they 
Snoto  effffsfor  form  a  very  thick  froth,  which  will  take 
trifles,  8f€.  at  least  half  an  hour ;  put  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  milk  to  boil,  and  when  it  boils, 
place  upon  its  surface  as  many  table-spoonfuls  of  the 
whipt  whites  of  egg  as  will  stand  upon  it  without 
touching  each  other ;  as  each  spoonful  becomes  cooked 
and  assumes  the  appearance  of  snow,  take  it  off  and  put 
on  another  until  all  the  whip  is  done  ;  as  you  take  off 
the  snow  from  the  milk,  put  it  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain ; 
when  all  the  snow  is  done,  add  to  the  milk  a  bit  of 
lemon  peel  and  sugar,  enough  to  sweeten  it  well ;  as  soon 
as  it  has  acquired  the  flavour  of  the  lemon  peel,  stir  into 
it  the  yolks  of  the  eight  eggs  beaten  up,  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  orange-flower  water  ;  when  of  proper  consis- 
tency, but  not  so  thick  as  cream,  pour  it  into  a  cream 
dish,  and  use  it  as  directed  for  trifle,  ornamenting  the 
snow   with  thin  slices  of  red    currant  jelly. 

Make  a  good  rich  custard,  and   lay  it    in   a 
Floating     trifle    dish ;    then    for     the     foundation   of    the 
island,      island,   place  in  the  centre   of  the  dish  a  circu- 
lar layer    of  slices   of    sponge    cake  or    French 
roll  dipped   in   wine  ;  then  a  layer  of  calf  s  foot  jelly,  then 


Digitized  by 


Google 


318  INDIAN    DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

cake  or  roll,  then  red  currant  jelly  or  any  other,  then 
cake,  and  so  on ;  lay  any  preserve  alternately  with  the 
cake,  varying  the  colours,  and  taking  care  to  preserve  an 
equilibrium  ;  diminish  in  ascending  pyramidically,  and  crown 
tlie  summit  with  a  good  whip,  sprinkle  with  trifle  comfits 
and  very  small  bits  of  coloured  preserves  ;  avoid  too  great 
a  weight  at  the  summit.  Decorate  the  dish  with  paste  or- 
naments or   ratafia    cakes. 

Devonshire  syllabub  is  made  with  one  pint 
Syllabubs,  of  sherry,  and  the  same  quantity  of  port,  with 
sugar  to  taste  ;  it  is  then  put  into  a  bowl,  and 
milked  upon  until  nearly  fuU ;  in  twenty  minutes,  it  is 
covered  with  clouted  cream,  some  pounded  cinnamon,  and 
nutmeg  grated  over  it.  The  milk  must  be  warm  from  the 
cow  to  have  it  in  perfection,  but  as  it  is  liable  to  be 
attended  with  accident,  the  safest  way  is  to  pour  the  milk 
warm  and  fresh  taken  from  the  cow  on  to  the  wine  from 
a  height    into   the  bowl. 

In  some  countries,   cyder,  home-made  wine,    ale  or    vir- 
juice  is  used. 

Sift  half  a  pound    of  sugar-candy  into   a 
Syllabub  pint  and  a  quarter    of  cream,   half  a  pint  of 

everlasting.      sweet  wine,  the  juice  of  six  limes   or   three 
small    Seville  oranges,  the  zest  of  four  ripe 
limes  zested  with   sugar,   and  a   spoonful   of  orange  flower 
water  ;  froth   it  well  with  a  chocolate  miller,   and   dress  it 
into  glasses. 

Turn    some    new    milk,  as    for    curds,    in    a 
Devonshire  wide    shallow   dish;     when  firm,    pour  over  the 
junket.      top  clouted   cream  mixed    with    pounded  sugar^ 
a  little  brandy,  and  some  grated  nutmeg. 

Mix    two  or    three    table-spoonfuls  of  arrow* 

Arrowroot     root,  with  half  a  pint  of  cold  water ;    stir  it   up 

mili.  well  to    clean  it;    let  it  stand    for  a  few    mi-. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  319 

nuies^  and  ponr  off  the  water;  stir  in  some  pounded 
sugar;  boil  a  pint  of  milk,  and  pour  it  gradually  upon 
the  arrowroot ;  give  it  a  boil  up^  and  keep  stirring  it  the 
whole  time;  or  it  may  be  made  with  water^  in  which 
a  little  essence  of  lemon  has  been  dropped  or  the  peel 
boiled  with  a  glass  of  port  or  white  wine^  and  a  little 
nutmeg  stirred  into  it. 

Boil  the  peel  of  half  a  lemon  or  a  •  lime  in 
Arrowroot         a  quart  of  water ;   pour  it  over  a  table-spoon- 
water.  ful  of  arrowroot  that  has  been  washed  and  the 

water  poured  off;  stir  it  well;  sweeten  with 
sugar  and  give  it  another  boil;  squeeze  in  a  little  lime 
juice,  ailid  let  it  cool.  This  is  a  most  grateful  drink  to 
a   sick  person. 

Steep  the  peel  of  a  lime  in  a  wine-glass  of 
Arrowroot        hot    water,   and  three   or   four   bitter  almonds 
jelly.  pounded  ;  strain  and  mix   it  with  three  table- 

spoonfuls  of  arrowroot  that  has  been  well 
washed,  three  spoonfuls  of  lime  juice,  and  one  of  brandy ; 
sweeten  and  add  a  pint  of  clear  water ;  put  it  on  the  fire, 
and    stir  until   quite  thick;   turn  it  into   a   mould  or  jelly 


With  a  quart  of  new  milk,  mix  the  grated 
AU  po99eL  crumb  of  a  roll  (or  a  teacup  of  crumbs),  the 
beaten  yolk  of  one  egg  and  a  little  butter; 
put  it  into  a  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  it  till  it  boils, 
and  let  it  simmer  for  a  short  time;  then  stir  in  a  pint  of 
hot  ale,  some  sugar,  and  grated  nutmeg;  boil  all  together, 
and   serve  in  a  dish. 

Bruise   coarsely  one  pound   of  wheat ;   then 

Fumienty.         boil   it   in  water  until  it  is  soft ;   pour  off  the 

water,   and   warm   it  up   in   a  quart   of  milk 

with   half  a  pound  of  dried   currants  and  a  pound  of  ra- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


320  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

sins  stoned,  some  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg.     It   takes 
about  twenty  minutes  to  boil   the  ingredients. 

Put  a  seer  of  wheat  into   an  earthen  ves- 
Flummery  of    sel,  and  cover  it   with  water ;   let  it  simmer 
wheat.  very    gently    until    it    becomes   a  jelly;    then 

add  twice  its  quantity  of  fresh  milk  with 
four  table-spoonfuls  of  currants  boiled;  beat  up  with  a 
little  milk  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  mix  all  together; 
set  it  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  sweeten  with 
sugar  and  season  with  grated  nutmeg  and  cinnamon.  It 
may   be  eaten  hot   or   cold. 

Are  all   prepared  in  the   same  way,   and  vary 
Souffles         only  in  the  flavour  given  to  them,  they  should 
be   served  as   soon    as  ready  or   they  are  liable 
to  sink   and  not  fit  to  be  eaten. 

Prepare  the  case  by  lining  a  raised  pie 
Souffles  h  la     mould  with  paste,  fill  the  centre  with   bread 

vanille.  crumbs  to  prevent  its  falling,  and  finish  the 
edges  as  for  a  raised  pie,  bake  it  of  a  light 
brown  colour,  when  done  remove  the  crumbs,  tie  a  band 
of  buttered  paper  four  inches  broad  around  the  top  and 
it  is  ready  to  be  filled,  or  else  use  a  souffle  case  made  of 
silver  or  tin,  but  as  they  fall  sooner  after  being  taken 
from  the  oven,  the  paste  is  to  be  preferred. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  and  mix  in 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fine  flour  without  melting  it, 
have  ready  a  quart  of  milk  luke-warm  that  has  been  well 
flavoured  with  vanilla,  pour  it  over  the  flour,  stir  it  over 
a  sharp  fire,  and  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  add  quickly 
the  beaten  yolks  of  ten  eggs  with  half  a  pound  of  sifted 
sugar,  and  let  ijb  cool.  An  hour  and  a  quarter  before  you 
serve,  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  firm,  stir  them 
into  the  mixture  lightly,  pour  it  into  the  case,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  near  an  hour,  when  ready  to 
serve,  remove  the  band  of  paper  from  the  case,  take  the 
souffle  out  of  the  mould,   and  serve  immediately. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  S21 

Take    half    a    pound     of    pipe  macaroni. 
Souffle  an  ma-     boil    it    carefully    until    tender,    then   drain 
caroni,  upon    a    cloth    and   cut  it  into    very  small 

pieces,  make  half  the  preparation  as  direct- 
ed for  soufBes  a  la  vanille,  flavour  with  a  little  essence  of 
bitter  almonds;  when  the  paste  is  becoming  thick  over  the 
fire  stir  in  the  macaroni,  and  again  nearly  boiling  the 
yolks  of  ten  eggs ;  and  when  cold  add  the  whites,  finish- 
ing  as    previously   directed. 

Procure  the  finest  tubers,   boil  first   and 
Soufflds  of  sweet    then    bake   them    in  hot   embers   until   dry 
j^otatoe.  and    floury.     Scoop    out    the    inside,    and 

mix  with  half  a  pint  of  cream  that  has 
been  boiled  and  flavoured  with  lime  peel;  to  this  add  a 
little  sugar,  butter  and  salt.  Mix  up  the  yolk  of  four 
eggs  only,  and  add  to  the  potatoes,  next  beat  up  the 
whites  of  six  well,  and  mix,  pour  the  whole  into  a  souffle 
dish,  add  to  it  a  table-spoonful  of  fresh  butter  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven ;  when  done,  sift  a  little  sugar  over, 
and  use  the  salamander:  common  potatoes  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  sweet. 

Take  four  table-spoonfuls  of  ground  rice,  a 
"Riceflum-  pint  and  a  half  of  new  milk,  the  zest  of  a 
mery.  ripe  lime,  and  sweeten  to  taste;  mix  the  rice 
first  with  a  little  of  the  milk;  boil,  the  rest, 
and  stir  the  rice  into  it ;  continue  boiling  for  a  few 
minutes,  when  turn  it  into  a  mould  or  basin  until  quite 
cold ;  serve  with  custard   or   cream    poured   over   it. 

Put    a   pint   of  milk  lukewarm   into  a  dish ;  add 
Whey,    to  it    half  a    table-spoonful    of    rennet;   when    the 
curd   is  formed,   put    it   on   a    sieve   and   divide  it 
with  a  spoon  to   allow   the    whey  to   escape. 

Put  half   a    pint  of  new  milk    on   the   fire  ; 

White  mfie    the  moment  it   boils,    pour   in   as   much   white 

whey.         wine  as  will  turn  it,   and  it  looks   clear;  let  it 

R   1 


Digitized  by 


Google 


388  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   KCONOMT   AND   COOKIRT. 

boil  up ;  then  set  the  saucepan  aside  till  the  curd  sub- 
sides, and  do  not  stir  it ;  pour  the  whey  off ;  add  to  it 
half  a   pint  of  boiling  water   and  a  little  white  sugar. 

Prepare   six   pints  of  milk  as    in  the  first 
Clarified  milk    receipt;    add  the   whites    of  three    eggs  and 
loAey.  half    a    drachm     of    cream   of    tartar ;   boil 

and  filter   through  a  napkin. 

Make    a    pint    of    milk    boil ;  put    to  it  a 

JF/Ule  mne    glass  or    two  of  white    wine ;   put   it    on    the 

whey,         fire  till  it  boils  again;   then  set  it   on  one  side 

till  the  curd    has    settled;  pour    off  the    clear 

whej^   and  sweeten  it  as   you  like. 

Take  the  juice  of  two  limes  and  add  it  to 

Lemm  whey*    a    pint  and  a   half  of  milk ;  let  it   simmer  a 

little,  and  strain;  sweeten  with  pounded  sugar. 

Obs. — The    curd    may    be    used    for    several    purposes: 
such    as  cheese    cakes,  butter,  &c. 

If  you  wish  it  thin,  mix  by  degrees,  in  a 
Caudle,  basin,  one  table-spoonful  of  oat-meal  with  three 
of  cold  water:  if  it  is  to  be  thick,  add  two 
spoonfuls  of  oat-meal ;  have  ready  in  a  saucepan  a  pint  of 
boiling  water  or  milk ;  pour  this,  by  degrees,  to  the  mixed 
oat-meal ;  return  it  to  the  saucepan ;  set  it  on  the  fire  to 
boil,  for  a  few  minutes,  stirring  it  all  the  time  to  prevent 
its  browning  at  ,the  bottom  of  the  pan;  skim  and  strain 
through  a  hair  sieve;  add  ale,  wine,  or  brandy,  with  su- 
gar and  nutmeg ;  without  these  ingredients  it  is  plain  gruel. 

Bub  smooth  a  large  spoonful  of  oat-meal 
Water  gruel,  with  two  of  water,  and  pour  it  into  a  pint 
of  water  boiling  on  the  fire ;  stir  it  well  and 
boil  it  quick,  but  take  care  it  does  not  boil  over ;  in  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  strain  it  off,  and  add  salt  and  a  bit 
of  butter  immediately  before  being  eaten,  stir  until  the 
butter  be    incorporated. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTER    XIX. 


JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 

Take   four    calfs  feet;   wash  them   well;  slit 
Calfifett    them  in  the  middle;   take  away  the  fat;   wash 
Jelly.         them  again  in  lukewarm  water ;   then  put  them 
in   a  stewpan,   and  cover  with  water  ;  when  the 
liquor   boils,   skim  it  well,   and  let  it  simmer    gently,     for 
six    or   seven  hours,  that  it  may   be*  reduced  to  about  two 
quarts;  then   strain  it   through  a  sieve,  and   set  the  liquor 
to   cool  (this  may   be  done  the  day  before,)  when  you  may 
remove  all  the  fat   and  oily  substance.    Put  the  liquor  into 
a   stewpan  with  a  pound  of  sugar,  the   peel   of  two  lemons, 
the  juice  of  six,  six  whites  of  eggs  and  shells  beat  together, 
a  pint  of  white  wine,  and  a  little   'cinnamon  ;    whisk  the 
whole  until  it  is  on  the  boil ;  then    set  it    on   one    side, 
and    let   it    simmer   for    a  quarter  of    an    hour ;   strain   it 
through  a  jelly   bag,  and  then  return  what  is  first  strained 
back   again,    when    it  will    be    quite  dear,    and    ready  for 
the  jelly  moulds.    If  the    weather    is  very    cold,    the    bag 
must  be  kept  near  the  fire  or  lighted  charcoal   in  chafing 
dishes  placed  close  to  it. 

Obi. — Be  very  particular  that  your  jelly  bag  is  sweet 
and  clean,  else  the  jelly  will  certainly  be  tainted ;  mix 
the  jelly,  if  looking  ever  so  clear,  with  a  glass  of  wine, 
and  you  will  detect  the  musty  disagreeable  flavour  imme- 
diately. It  may  be  flavoured  by  the  juice  of  fruits  and 
spices,  coloured  with  saffron,  cochineal,  red  beet  juice,  spin- 
ach, claret,  &c.  Bipe  fruits,  such  as  green  or  red  grapes^ 
peaches^  &c.  may  be  laid  in  the  mould  just  as  it  is  thickening. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


324  INDIAN     DOVISTIC   ECONOMY 

ObS' — Six  or  eight  sheep's  trotters  are  fully  equal  to  a 
fine  calfs  foot ;  they  require  cleaning  and  preparing  in  the 
same  manner.  If  the  jelly  is  required  to  be  very  strong, 
add  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass  dissolved  in  a  wine-glass  of 
water ;  let  it  remain  a  little   longer  on  the  fire  to  boil  up. 

Take    twenty-four     or     twenty-eight    sheep's 
SAeep's/eet    trotters ;    clean   them    nicely,   and    prepare  ex- 
Jelly.  actly  as  for  calves^   feet  jelly  ;   cover  them  with 

water,  and  when  the  liquor  boils,  skim  it 
quite  clear,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  until  reduced  to  a 
couple  of  quarts;  strain  it  through  a  tammis  or  sieve 
and  let  it  stand  until  quite  cold,  when  you  may  remove 
every  part  of  the  fat  and  oily  substance  without  wasting 
any  of  the  jelly  ;  put  it  into  a  stewpan  to  melt  with  half 
a  pound  of  sugar,  some  cinnamon  and  a  few  cloves,  the 
thin  cut  peel  of  two  limes,  the  juice  of  eight,  six  whites 
of  eggs  well  beat  together,  and  a  pint  of  white  wine  : 
whisk  the  whole  well  up  until  it  is  on  the  boil;  then  put 
it  on  the  side  of  the  stove  or  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  ;  then  strain  it  through  a  jelly  bag  as 
directed   in  the  last  receipt. 

Obs. — Jelly  may  be  made  of  chickens,  cow  heels,  sugar, 
and  lemon ;  and  instead  of  wine,  brandy,  noyeau,  or  cura- 
coa;  it  is  better  for  being  broken  and  set  in  glasses  bn 
the  table,   as   the   air  improves   the    flavour. 

Such   as  bunches    of  grapes   and    strawberries, 

FfuiU  in    have    a  handsome  appearance    when  moulded   in 

Jelly,       jelly ;  or  peaches,  greengages,   cherries,     apricots^ 

&c.   preserved  in  brandy,  are   also  elegant.    They 

must  be  dipped  in  water,  dried,   and   put  into  the  jelly  as 

it  is   about  to  set. 

Red. — ^Boil  very  slowly  in    a  wine-glass 

Colouring  for      of  water  till   reduced  to  one   half,    twenty 

jellies,  cream,    grains    of  cochineal,   the    same   quantity  of 

ice^y  8fc.  alum  and  cream  of  tartar  finely    pounded  ; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AKB  COOKERY.  325 

strain  and  keep  in  a  phial.  Yellow. — Use  an  infusion  of 
saffron  or  sappan  seeds.  Green. — Wash  well  and  peel  in* 
to  bits  a  handful  of  spinach  leaves^  put  them  into  a  close- 
ly covered  saucepan  with  a  glass  of  water,  and  express  the 
jnice  after  boiling  a  few  minutes.  Bed  beet  also  yields  a 
deep  purple  red  ;  so  does  the  ripe  fruit  of  the  prickly  pear. 
Parsley   greening  is  also  used,  prepared  as   spinach. 

Zest     three    lemons    or    six    limes,     two 
Orange  or  Seville    oranges    and    two    sweet ;   mix    this 

lemon  jelly,  wi^h  the  juice  of  the  whole,  and  leave  it 
for  twelve  hours ;  boil  half  a  pound  of  re- 
fined sugar  in  two  wine-glasses  of  water  to  near  candy 
height ;  put  it  into  a  basin^  and  when  cool,  strain  the  juice 
into  it ;  put  an  ounce  of  isinglass  into  a  pint  of  water, 
and  simmer  it  gently  until  it  becomes  a  strong  jelly; 
mix  in  the  lemon  juice  and  sugar  and  stir  it  until  it  is 
almost   cold,   when   fill  your  moulds  or  glasses. 

05*.— Grape,   currant   or  any    other   fruit  jellies  may  be 
made   in  the   same  manner. 

Make  a   quart  of  firm   calfs   foot  jelly,  to 
Marisquiuo      which,   when  melted,  add   six   liqueur  glassfuls 
JeUy-,  of    marisquino    and    two   of  brandy,    or   else 

dissolve  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  isinglass  in  a 
pint  of  water,  the  juice  of  three  large  limes  with  half  a 
pound  of  sugar,  pass  through  a  napkin  or  jelly  bag,  add 
two  wine-glassfuls  more  water  with  the  marisquino  and 
brandy ;  when  partly  cold,  place  in  your  mould,  and  set 
it  in  ice. 

Pick  the  fruit'  when  perfectly  ripe,  and 
Jelly  of  grape ^      as  soon  as  it  is  clean,  put  it  into  a  stone 
raspberry,  and  jar,   and  set   it  in  a  saucepan  three  parts 
currants.  filled  with    cold  water,    with  some    straw 

beneath ;  set  it  on  a  gentle  fire,  and 
simmer  it  for  half  an  hour ;  take  the  jar  from  the  sauce- 
pan,  and  pour    the    contents  into  a  jelly  bag;   strain  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


326  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

juice  twice,  but  do  not  press  the  fruit ;  to  each  pint  of 
juice  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar ;  put  it  into  the 
preserving  pan,  and  simmer  it  gently  for  thirty  or  forty 
minutes,  stirring  and  skimming  it  the  whole  time  until  it 
is  perfectly  clear,  when  put  it  into  jars    and  cover  carefuUy. 

O69. — Half  a  pint  of  either  of  these  jellies  dissolved 
and  added  to  brandy  or  vinegar,  will  make  either  of  the 
same  name.  All  fruit  jellies  are  made  precisely  in  the 
same  manner,  and  if  less  sugar  is  employed  they  require 
more  boiling,  by  which  there  is  a  great  waste  of  juice 
and  flavour  by  evaporation,  besides^  the  appearance  is 
often  lost^  and  the  best  way  is  the   cheapest  in    the   end. 

Take  four  seers  of  ripe  guavas;  peel  and 
Guava  Jelly,  divide  them  into  quarters ;  boil  them  in  a 
small  quantity  of  water,  and  strain  the  juice 
through  a  cloth  or  bag;  add  the  juice  of  ten  limes  with 
one  pound  of  sugar*candy ;  boil  and  skim  it  very  carefully 
until  it  is  reduced  to  a  proper  consistency,  and  the  colour 
of  a  deep  reddish  brown,  when  pour  it  into  a  jar  at 
once;  if  bottles  are  used,  the  jelly  must  be  first  allowed 
to  cool  a  little. 

Oi*.— In  making  a  large  quantity  of  jelly,  from  thirty 
to  forty  seers  of  guavas,  the  juice  that  runs  from  them 
must  be  well  reduced  by  boiling  and  skimming  before  the 
sugar  is  added;  perhaps  a  little  more  sugar  may  be  ne- 
cessary than  the  quantity  laid  down.  My  receipt  says 
two  tea-cupfuls  of  sugar-candy  to  four  seers  of  guavas. 
The  above  receipt  will  only  make  two  *  tea-cupfuls  of  jelly, 
though  the   same  quantity  of  sugar  be  added   to  it. 

Get  the  finest  fruit  quite  ripe,  wash  it 
Jamoon  Jelly,  well  to  four  pound,  add  half  a  pint  of 
water,  and  boil  the  whole  in  a  saucepan 
till  quite  soft,  then  strain  the  fruit  through  a  towel,  and 
to  each  pint  of  juice  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  lime 
juice;  reduce  it  again  by  boiling  to  one  half,  and  to  each 
pint  that    remains  add    one  pound    and   a  half  of  sugar- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   CX)OILEBY.  827 

candy  ;  boil  the  whole  over  a  clear  charcoal  fire,  removing 
the  scum  as  it  rises,  try  the  jelly  in  a  spoon,  and  when 
it  sets  remove  and  fill  your  jars  or  bottles.  This  jelly  is  of 
a    deep  purple  colour  and  equal  to   the  Boselle  or  any  other. 

Wash  your   tapioca  in   cold  water  two  or 

Tapioca  Jelly,    three   times  ;    then   soak    it  in  fresh   water 

five   or   six  hours    (add  a  little  lime   peel) ; 

simmer  it    in  the  same    until  it  becomes  quite  clear ;  then 

add  lemon  juice,  wine,   and  sugar.    It  thickens  very  much. 

Take     two     table-spoonfuls   and     boil     it     in 
Tapioca  in    a  pint    of  water,    adding   sugar  to    the  taste. 
mUk.         Milk  may  be   substituted  instead   of  water. 

Cut  the  crumb  of  a  roll  into  thin  slices. 
Jelly,  invalid,  and  toast  them  equally  of  a  pale  brown  ; 
boil  them  gently  in  a  quart  of  water  till  it. 
will  be  a  jelly,  which  may  be  known  by  putting  a  little  in 
a  spoon  to  cool ;  strain  it,  add  a  little  lemon  peel  and 
sugar.    Wine  may  be  added. 

Wipe  or  clean  the  peaches  with  a  soft 
PeacA  Jam.  brush,  so  as  to  remove  all  the  dust  ;  then 
scald  them  in  a  stone  jar  by  placing  it  in  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water  over  the  fire  until  done  ;  then 
turn  out  the  fruit,  remove  the  skin  and  stones,  and  add 
an  equal  quantity  by  weight  of  pounded  sugar-candy  to 
it ;  place  the  whole  in  a  preserving  pan  over  a  clear 
charcoal  fire,  and  let  it  boil  up  gently  three  or  four 
times ;  skim  it  carefully,  and  a  few  minutes  before  you 
remove  the  jam  from  the  fire,  mix  with  it  the  blanched 
kernels  and  fill  your  jars  or  wide-mouthed  bottles ;  wheh 
cool,  stopper  or    cork  them  down  tight. 

Prepare  the  peaches    as    for   cheese    in   the 

Peach  Jam    next   receipt;  to    each    pound  of    pulp    add  a 

witA  Oreen    large   green  mangoe,    peeled   and    sliced,   with 

Mangoes.      one   pound    and  a    half  of  sugar-candy ;    put 


Digitized  by 


Google 


828  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

the  whole  into  a  preserviug  pan,  and  let  it  boil,  stirring 
it  from  time  to  time  that  it  may  not  burn  ;  remove  any 
scum  that  rises,  and  when  it  thickens  and  will  jelly  on 
a  plate,  it  is  done  enough ;  before  taking  from  the  fire* 
add  the  blanched  kernels ;  put  it  into  jars  or  wide-mouth- 
ed  bottles  for  use. 

Pick  any  quantity  of  ripe  peaches,  put 
Peach  Cheese,  them  into  a  stone  jar  and  bake  them  in  au 
oven  until  they  are  soft ;  or  boil  the  jar 
in  a  kettle  of  water  ;  then  stone  and  rub  them  while  hot 
through  a  colander  ;  put  the  pulp  and  juice  into  a  pre- 
serving pan,  adding  to  every  pound  of  pulp  and  juice  a 
pound  and  half  of  sugar ;  (blanch  the  kernels  of  the  stones 
and  keep  them  on  one  side ;)  simmer  gently  and  remove 
any  scum  ;  then  add  the  bleached  keriVels  of  the  stones ; 
stir  these  well  in,  a  few  minutes  before  you  remove  the 
pan  from  the  fire ;  put  into  moulds  sprinkled  with  arrow- 
root,  and    set   to  dry. 

Put   bread    crumbs    and  red    currant   jelly 
Another  Jelly,    or     any     other    alternately    into  a   tumblar 
until   half  full  then   fill  up  with  milk. 

Weigh  equal  quantities  of  pounded  sugar 
Apricot  Jam.  and  of  apricots  ;  pare  and  cut  them  quite 
small ;  as  they  are  done,  strew  over  them  half 
of  the  sugar  ;  the  following  day  boil  the  remainder,  and 
add  the  apricots  ;  stir  it  till  it  boils  ;  take  off  the  scum, 
and  when  perfectly  clear,  which  may  be  in  twenty  minutes, 
add  a  part  of  the  kernels  blanched,  and  boil  it  £^  minute 
or   two  more. 

06s. — Dried  apricots  strung  on  thread,  are  brought  from 
Bussorah  and  sold  in  the  bazars  at  the  Presidencies,  and 
require,  like  all   other  dried  fruit  to    be  soaked   before  using. 

Pare   and   stone   ripe   apricots  ;  slice  them, 

Apricot  Mar-    and    boil  a    pound    of  sugar  for  each  pound 

tnalade.         of   fruit  ;    let     it    nearly   come    to    a    candy 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKEBT.  889 

height ;  then  add  the  froit,  and  boil  it  v^y  quicks  removing 
the  scam  carefully  ;  when  clear,  take  it  from  the  fire, 
and  in  potting  put  in  the  kernels. 

Collect  the  ripest  fruit  and  skin  them  ;  lay 
Fig  Jam.  them  in  a  China  bowl  for  a  night,  sprinkled 
over  with  pounded  sugar-candy  ;  to  each  pound 
of  fruit  allow  the  same  quantity  of  sugar,  place  the  whole 
in  a  preserving  pan,  over  a  clear  fire,  and  .  skim  it  clear 
until  the  fruit  begins  to  jelly,  when  remove  and  fill  the 
pots  in  which  it  is  to  remain. 

Bruise   gently    with    the   back    of  a    wooden 
Ratpberry    spoon,  six  pounds   of  ripe  and   freshly  gathered 
Jam.  raspberries,  and   boil  them  over  a  brisk  fire,  for 

twenty-five  minutes ;  stir  to  them  half  their 
weight  of  good  sugar  roughly  powdered,  and  when  it  is 
dissolved,  boil  the  preserve  quickly,  for  ten  minutes,  keep- 
ing it  well  stirred  and  skimmed  ;  when  a  richer  jam  is  wish- 
ed for,  add  to  the  fruit  at  first  its  full  weight  of  sugar, 
and  boil  them  together  twenty  minutes. 

When  the  fruit  is  not  an  object,  pare,  core 
Quince  mar-  and  quarter  some  of  the  inferior  quinces,  and 
fnalade.  boil  them  in  as  much  water  as  will  nearly 
cover  them,  until  they  begin  to  break  ;  strain 
the  jnice  from  them,  and  for  the  marmalade  put  half  a 
pint  of  it  to  each  pound  of  fresh  quinces;  in  preparing 
these,  be  careful  to  cut  out  the  hard  strong  parts  round 
the  cores ;  simmer  them,  gently  until  they  are  perfectly 
tender ;  then  press  them  with  the  juice  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  pat  them  into  a  perfectly  clean  pan,  and  boil  them 
till  they  form  almost  a  dry  paste  ;  add  for  each  pound 
of  quince  and  the  half  pint  of  juice,  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  in  fine  powder,  and  boil  the  marmalade  for 
half  an  hour,  stirring  it  gently  without  ceasing.  It  will 
be  very  firm  and  bright  in  colour.  If  made  shortly  after 
the  fruit  is  gathered,  a  little    additional  sugar  will  be  re- 

8  I 

^  '  Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


330  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

quired  ;  and  when  a  richer  and  less  dry  marmalade  is  bet- 
ter liked,  it  most  be  boiled  a  shorter  time  and  an  equal 
weight  of  fruit   and  sugar  must  be  used. 

Take  two  seers  of  unripe  red  tamarinds  ;  clean 
Red  tama-  the  pods  and  take  out  the  seeds  ;  then  soak  the 
rind  Jam.  pods  in  cold  water,  for  two  hours  ;  make  one 
and  a  half  seer  of  sugar  into  syrup  ;  then  put 
the  tamarinds  with  a  little  cinnamon  in  the  syrup  ;  boil  it 
for  ten  minutes  on  a  quick  fire ;  remove  the  tamarinds 
from  the  syrup,  and  boil  it  until  thick ;  then  put  back  the 
tamarinds  to  the  syrup,  and  slowly  boil  the  whole  for 
fifteen  minutes. 

Take  off  the  outer  peel,  and  then  split 
Tamarindi^  to  the  tamarinds  lengthways  in  order  to  take 
preserve,  out  the  seeds;  take  four  times  their  weight 
of  sugar ;  after  the  seeds  have  been  taken 
out  of  the  tamarinds,  make  it  into  a  thick  syrup,  which 
must  be  well  boiled  with  the  juice  of  three  or  four  limes 
squeezed  into  it ;  strain  it  and  put  in  the  tamarinds ; 
let  them  remain  for  a  few  minutes  on  the  fire  ;  then  take 
the  pan  off,  and  put  them  with  syrup  into  jars  well 
covered.  In  the  course  of  a  short  tune  a  thick  crust  will 
appear  on  the  top  of  the  jar,  which  will  exclude  all  the 
air,  and  preserve  ttie  tamarinds  good  for  a  long  time,  if 
not  disturbed.  The  tamarinds  should  be  selected  of  the 
finest  red,  and  gathered  before  they  are  ripe,  otherwise 
they  will  be  stringy,  scarcely  any  pulp  left,  and  the  seeds 
difficult  to  extract.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  allow 
the  tamarinds  to  remain  long  in  any  brass  or  copper 
vessel.  The  syrup  should  be  thick  at  first,  because  the 
juice  of  the  tamarinds  will    speedily  thin  it. 

Gather  the  tamarinds  before  they    are    ripe  ; 

Tamarind    take  off  the    skin ;    slice  them  in  two,  and  re- 

preeei've,  move   the   stones;   let  them   soak    in  alum  and 

water  during  one  night,   and  preserve  them    the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOK££T.  331 

next  day.  To  three  seers  of  fruity  put  two  and  half  seers 
of  sugar-candy  made  into  a  syrup;  let  the  fruit  boil 
gently  until  it  becomes  quite  soft ;  then  take  it  out  of  the 
syrup,  and  allow  the  latter  to  boil  until  it  becomes  thick ; 
then  put  the  tamarinds  into  jarSj  and  pour  the  syrup 
over  them. 

Take     any    quantity     of    French    plums ; 

Trench  plums    give    them  one  boil  in  plain    water ;  strain 

preserved.       it  from    them,  and   spread   them   out     on  a 

dish   or  cloth ;   make  a  syrup  of  sugar,  and 

put  the  plums  into  it ;   simmer    them  gently  for  a  quarter 

of  an  hour,  and   then  put  them   in    a  jar  for ,  use. 

Scrape  and  clean  your  green  ginger  well; 

Green  ginger    to  each  pound  of  ginger,   put  a  pint   and  a 

preserve,       half  of  water;   boil  it   down  to   one   pint  or 

less;  skim  it    carefully    while    boiling;  then 

strain  off    the  liquid   and   'add   one  pound  of  sugar-candy 

and   boil    the  ginger  in  it  until  tender. 

•  Carefully  remove    the    skin,   cut  it    up 

Orange  chips,  le-  into     thin   slices,  and  soak    in    salt    and 

mon  or  pulped  water  for  a   couple    of  days ;   then  throw 

marmalade.       the  salt     and  water   away,  and  add  fresh 

water    only,    removing  the   chips  as  soon 

as  the   salt  is  taken  out,   and  boil  them  till  tender ;  clarify 

two   pounds   of  sugar  in  a  pint  of  water,   for   each  pint  of 

juice  and  pulp ;  boil  it  together  till   clear ;  to  every  pound 

of    this  jeUy,   add     half' a    pound  of  the  chips  that  have 

been  previously    prepared  as  follows :    (dissolve  a   pound  of 

sugar  in   a    wine-glass  of  water    to    each  pound  of  chips, 

and  boil  it  clear  for  twenty  minutes) ;   then  boil  altogether 

for  a  few  minutes,  and  put  it  up  in  pots. 

When  the    chips  have  been    prepared,  as 
Chips  only,    above    directed,  in  syrup,  for  twenty  minutes, 
remove,  and  dry   them    in  a  stove  or  else  in 
the  sun,  sprinkling  fine  sugar  over  them. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


332  INDIAN   DOMSSnC  KCONOMY 

Qr€M^e  dips      Are  prepared  in  a  similar  laaoner. 

Take  the  ripest  and  yellowest  fruit,  fresh 
Putnplemose  from  the  tree;  slice  the  outside  into  quar* 
peel,  candied,  ters  or  more,  down  to  the  fruit,  and  pare 
it  off  clean;  then  cut  away  very  thin  the 
external  rind  and  remove  as  much '  of  the  soft  inside  as 
will  leave  the  slices  a  little  more  than  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick;  soak  them  in  water  for  twelve  hours;  then 
boil  them  in  fresh  until  soft;  strain  and  let  them  cool. 
Make  a  stroug  syrup  with  the  juice  of  the  fruit,  some 
water  and  sugar-candy,  in  this,  place  and  boil  the  ped 
until  it  is  perfectly  saturated  with  the  syrup;  then  drain 
off  the  syrup  from  the  preserve,  which  place  on  a  dish 
in  the  sun,  and  sprinkle  it  well  with  sifted  sugar;  when 
dry»   bottle   it. 

Obs» — Soft  sugar  may  be  used,  and  one  pound,  if 
fine  and  clean,  will  be  sufficient  for  a  moderate  sized 
pumplemose. 

Boil  the  peels  in  several  waters  till  they 

Orange  peel      lose   their  bitterness;    then  put    tbran  into  a 

candied.       syrup  till  they  become  soft  and  transparent; 

when   they    may   be  taken  out,  drained,   and 

dried  in  the  sun ;   sprinkle  a  little   pounded  sugar  over  them. 

Take  any  quantity  of  the  finest  unripe 
Mangoes,  to  mangoes ;  peel  and  divide  them  in  half,  stones 
preserve.  and  all,  removing  the  seeds ;  then  weigh  the 
mangoes ;  tx)  each  pound,  allow  a  pint  of  water 
and  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar-candy ;  put  the  whole 
into  a  stewpan,  and  boil  gently,  removing  all  the  scum  as 
it  rises ;  when  the  mangoes  appear  clear  and  sufficiently 
done,  remove  from  the;  fire,  and  let  stand  till  cold ;  then 
put  into  bottles   or  jars    for  use  or  keeping. 

Cut  and  peel  any   quantity   of  unripe  man- 

Mangoe jelly,    goes  free  from  the  stone;  put  them  into   a 

preserving  pan    with  a  sufficient    quantity  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  333 

water  to  cover  them,  and  boil  gently  till  quite  soft ;  then 
strain  tlie  contents  through  a  jelly  bag  or  cloth ;  to  each 
pint  of  juice,  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  good  sugar  pound- 
ed ;  and  when  it  is  dissolved,  put  it  into  the  preserving  pan, 
set  it  on  the  fire,  and  boil  gently,  stirring  and  skimming  it 
the  whole  time,  till  no  more  scum  rises,  and  it  is  clear  and 
fine;  pour  it  into  pots  while  warm,  and  when  cold,  cover 
them  down  close. 

Cut  off  the  lower  part  of  the  stem  from 
OseUle  or         the  fiuit  with  a  portion   of  the  top ;   remove 

Rosellejam  the    seed;  wash    and  pick    the  fruit    clean; 

and  jelly,  then  put  it  into  an  earthen  jar  or  rather 
vessel,  which  place  in  a  large  saucepan  of 
water;  add  to  each  pound  in  weight  of  fruit,  a  wine-glass 
of  water ;  boil  the  whole  for  several  hours  at  a  good  pace 
or  until  the  fruit  has  formed  into  a  jelly;  when  remove  it, 
and  to  each  pound  add  the  same  qaantity  of  sugar  ;  put 
the  whole  iq|o  a  jelly  pan,  and  boil  it  as  any  other  jam. 
If  jelly  is  to  be  made,  clean  the  fruit  as  directed,  and  pre- 
pare it  by  boiling  in  a  similar  manner ;  then  put  it  into  a 
bag  or  cloth,  and  strain  off  all  the  juice ;  add  the  sugar 
in  the  same  proportion  as  for  jam;  skim  it  carefully 
whilst  boiling,  and  when  made,  turn  it  out  into  your  jars. 

Oi*.— This  jelly,   if  made    with   fine    sugar-candy,  is   as 
clear  as  any  red  currant,    and  of  equal   flavour. 

Pick  the  fruit  and  wash  it  clean;  place  it  in 
Kumnder  a  jar  or  other  vessel,  which  put  into  a  sauce- 
jam.  pan  of  water,  and  boil  until  the  whole  of  the 
juice  is  expressed;  then  strain  it  through  a 
cloth  or  bag,  and  add  equal  quantities  of  sugar-candy; 
boil  and  skim  it  carefully ;  try  its  consistency  by  placing  a 
httle  on  a  plate;  when  ready,  turn  it  into  pots.  Cape 
gooseberries  may   be  made  in  the    same  way. 


Digitized 


by  Google 


CHAPTEE    XX. 


TEA,  COFJPEE,  Etc. 

To  be  made  well,  must  have  the  water  poured 
Tea,  boiling  hot  upon  it.  The  quantity  for  common  pur- 
poses is  a  tea-spoonful  for  each  cup,  and  it  should 
never  be  allowed  to  stand  long,  otherwise  the  bitter  quali- 
ty is  extracted.  Persons  travelling,  will  find  a  tincture  of 
tea,  prepared  as  follows,  very  useful  and  convenient.  Fill 
a  wide-mouthed  bottle  with  fresh  tea,  green  or  black,  and 
pour  as  much  brandy  or  rum  upon  it  as  the  bottle  will 
hold;  keep  it  well  corked  in  the  sun,  for  a  few  days, 
shacking  it  occasionally,  when  strain  it  off  clear:  a  tea^ 
spoonful  of  this,  put  into  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  will, 
with  a  little  milk,  furnish  a  cup  of  excellent  tea. 

Obs. — Tea  should  be  made  with  water  the  minute  it  boils. 

Sasp  or  slice  a  cake  or  square  of  chocolate 
Chocolate*  (about  two  ounces)  into  a  pint  of  boiling 
water;  set  it  on  the  fire  to  simmer,  and  mill 
it  well  until  it  is  quite  dissolved  ;  then  add  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  milk  or  half  the  quantity  of  cream,  with  sugar 
sufficient  to  sweeten  it,  and  mill  it  thoroughly  to  a  frotk 
before  serving. 

Oh8. — The  cakes  are  prepared  by  pounding  the  berries 
of  the  cacslonat  with  beef  suet;  to  which  the*  Spaniards 
add  sugar  and  spices.  A  substitute  for  the  regular  choco- 
late miller  may  be  made  by  splitting  a  moderate  sized 
bamboo  at  the  end  into  four  divisions  to  the  length  of 
eight  or  ten  inches ;  tie  some  twine  tightly  above  the  split 
part,  and  insert  a  piece  of  cork^  of  a  cone  shape,  so  as  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY  AND  COOKERY.  335 

keep  the  divisions  open.    This  ans^vers  for  frothing  creams 
as  well  as   milling,   spruce,    &c. 

Allow  six  or  eight  nuts  for  each  cup;  have 
Cocoa,  them  carefully  roasted,  but  not  burnt;  then 
pound  them  well  in  a  mortar,  and  add  cold  water 
in  proportion  to  the  quantity  of  nuts,  one-third  more  than 
required ;  boil  gently  until  the  excess  of  water  is  reduced ; 
strain,  and  it  is  ready  for  use;  add  milk  and  sugar. 

Oha. — After  the  cocoa  is  prepared,  you  may  add  the 
water  and  boil  it  down  to  one  half;  then  mix  it  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  milk,  and  when  it  has  boiled  up  again, 
strain  it  through  a  muslin  bag  into  the  pot  or  vessel  it 
is  to  be  served  in. 

This  beverage,  so  generally  admired  when  pro- 
Coffee,  perly  made,  is  seldom  presented  in  a  state  fit  to 
drink,  being  often  weak,  cold,  and  muddy,  possess- 
ing neither  flavour  nor  strength.  To  be  good,  the  great 
secret  lies  in  making  it  immediately  it  is  roasted  and 
ground,  allowing  a  sufficient  quantity  for  each  cup.  If 
you  would  have  it  of  the  finest  flavour,  procure  the  coffee 
of  the  best  quality; — ^Mocha  stands  in  the  highest  esti- 
mation. The  machines  advertised  for  making  superior  cof- 
fee by  pressure,  steam,  &c.  are  numerous,  but  for  a  work 
like  this,  I  shall  only  give  such  receipts  as  are  most  likely 
to  be  available  by  the  plain  coffee-pot  for  boiling,  the 
filtering  biggin  and  the  common  saucepan.  The  quantity 
of  ground  coffee  for  each  cup,  is  from  three  to  four  tea- 
spoonfuls,  equal  to  an  ounce;  those  persons,  who  drink  it 
without  milk  or  sugar,  may  prefer  it  stronger.  Put  the 
coffeb  into  the  pot  with  the  proportionate  quantity  of  cold 
water,  allowing  a  little  more  than  the  quantity  required; 
let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes  and  keep  stirring  it  to  prevent 
its  boiling  over,  when  the  coffee  will  fall  to  the  bottom 
and  become  perfectly  clear. 

Od«.— The  grounds  may  be  allowed  to  remain  in  the  pot 
for  the  next  day,   as  a  third  of  coffee  is  saved  by  it. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


336  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

Scald  the  biggin  well ;  take  oat  the  presser ; 
To  make  it  put  in  your  coffee  in  the  proportion  laid  down^ 
in  a  biggin,  and  with  reference  to  the  size  of  the  biggin  ; 
then  press  it  down  tight  and  put  on  the  strain- 
er with  the  large  holes  and  pour  upon  it  the  quantity  of 
boiling  water  required;  place  the  biggin  in  a  basin  of  hot 
water  to  keep  the  coffee  warm ;  as  soon  as  it  has  filtered 
through,  pour  it  out  immediately,  either  into  cups  or  into 
the  vessel  it  is  to  be  served  in,  which  should  be  kept  closed 
and  warm;  if  parties  are  to  help  themselves,  accompany  it 
with   hot  cream  or  milk,    and   pounded  sugar-candy. 

In  the  morning,  pour  upon  a  quarter  of 

To  make  coffee    a  pound   of  fresh  coffee    about  two    quarts 

where  much  is    boiling   water  ;  stir  it  for  three  or  four  mi- 

required/or  a    nutes  ;   cover  it  closely,  and  let  it    remain ; 

family.  pour  it    off  clear,   and  boil  it  up  for   use. 


Beat  up  an  egg  with  a  litle  water;  mix 
Another  way,  it  with  four  ounces  of  fresh  roasted  and 
ground  coffee;  then  pour  one  quart  or  three 
pints  of  water  upon  it,  and  boil  for  five  minutes ;  let  it 
settle  a  few  minutes  to  clear,  or  strain  through  a  napkin^ 
flannel  or  muslin  bag.  If  this  is  done,  it  requires  heating 
again ;  or  instead  of  clearing  with  an  egg  pour  a  little  cold 
water  into  the  pot  before  taking  it  off  the  fire.  It  may  be 
made  this  way  on  the  previous  night  of  marching;  the 
dear  part,  bottled  and  corked^  made  treble  strong,  will  keep 
for  many   days. 

Obs. — ^This  is  a  very  useful  way  to  prepare  it  for  travel- 
lers; if  it  is  required  before  starting  in  the  morning,  as 
your  servants  then  are  much  engaged,  have  it  made  over- 
night, the  quantity  of  milk  and  sugar  added,  put  in  a  bot- 
tle, corked,  and  it  will  then  only  require  warming,  which 
may  either  be  done  over  the  servants'  fire,  or  the  lamp  you 
are  dressing  by. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  SS7 

Take  as  much  clear  coffee  prepared  in  the 
Milk  Coffee^  proportion  of  foar  ounces  to  one  quart  of  wa- 
ter (though  I  would  advise  six  ounces  instead) ; 
then  add  as  much  milk  as  coffee^  sweetened  to  your  taste; 
warm  it,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  and  in  pouring  it  out,  froth 
from  a  height  as  you  would  a  foaming  liquid  out  of  a 
bottle. 


Tl 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CHAPTEE   XXI. 


SYRUPS,  Etc. 

To  every  pound  of  sagar^  add  half  a  pint  of 
Clarified   water ;   put    into    a    clean    stewpan ;  dissolve    the 

s^rup.  sugar,  and  set  over  a  moderate  fire;  the  white 
of  an  egg  is  sufficient  for  four  pounds  of  sugar; 
put  it  to  the  sugar  before  it  gets  warmed  and  stir  well 
together ;  watch  it  as  it  boils,  take  oflf  the  scum,  and  keep 
it  boiling  till  no  scum  rises  and  it  is  perfectly. clear;  run 
it  through  a  clean  napkin,  and  put  it  into  close  stoppered 
bottles. 

Obs. — If  sugar-candy  is  used,  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of 
water  may  be  allowed  to  a  pound,  or  even  more,  if  required 
for  immediate  use. 

To  two  seers  of  moist  sugar,  add  a  pint  and 

Syrup.         a  half  of  water  with  the  white  of  an  egg   well 

beaten  ;    strain   the   whole,  put  it  on  the  fire,  and 

as  it    boils,    remove    all    the    scum,    and    continue    boiling 

until  sufficiently  thick. 

Obs, — This  is  a  convenient  article  for  domestic  use, 
answering  the  purpose  in  many  cases  of  sugar-candy,  be- 
sides   being  divested    of  all   impurities. 

As  generally  prepared  in  Europe,  is  made 
Capillairef  with  essence  of  neroli  and  clarified  syrup,  or 
with  orange-fiower  water  and  syrup ;  mix  four 
ounces  of  orange-flower  water  to  one  pint  of  syrup ;  and 
it  is  ready.  This  is  what  is  generally  sold  in  England  for 
capillaire ;  in  America  it   is    made   by  infusing    one    ounce 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC  TCONOHY  AND   COOKEEY.  339 

of  the  capillaire  bark  in  varm  water,  adding  a  pound  of 
sttgar^  clearing  it  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  boiling 
to  a  syrup. 

Is  made    from    an    extract   first     obtained 

Oinger  syrup    hy  infusing    in  a  quart   of  boiling   water   two 

ounces   of    ground    ginger;   filter    it   through 

paper,   and  add  to  it  two   pounds   of  sugar,  and  boil  it  into 

a  syrup* 

Put  a  pint  of  fresh  lemon  juice  to  a 
Sjrup  qflemoiu.  pound  and  three  quarters  of  sugar-can- 
dy; dissolve  it  by  a  gentle  heat;  skim 
it  till  the  surface  is  quite  clear ;  add  an  ounce  of  thin  cut 
lemon  peel ;  let  them  simmer  (very  gently)  together  for 
a  few  minutes,  and  run  it  through  a  flannel;  when  cold, 
bottle  and  cork  it  closely,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 
Or,  dissolve  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  citric  crystallized 
lemon  acid  in  a  pint  of  clarified  syrup;  flavour  it 
with  the  peel. 

Of    fresh  outer  rind   of  Seville  orange    or 

Byrup    of       lemon  peel  three  ounces,   apothecary's  weight ; 

orange  or     boiling  water  a  pint   and   a   half;   infuse  them 

Unum  pteL  for  a  night    in   a  close    vessel ;  then     strain 

the  liquor ;  let  it  stand  to    settle,   and,   having 

poared  it  off  clear    from  the    sediment,    dissolve  in  it   two 

pounds  of  double    refined  loaf  sugar ;  boil  it    to  a    syrup 

with  a  gentle  heat. 

OU* — In  making  this,  if  the  sugar  be  dissolved  in 
the  infusion  with  as  gentle  a  heat  as  possible  to  pre- 
vent the  exhalation  of  the  volatile  parts  of  the  peel,  the 
syrup  will  possess  a  great  share  of  the  fine  flavour  of  the 
orange  or   lemon  peel* 

Rub   down  half  a   dozen  almonds  and  a 

Ginger  drops,      little  candied  citron  or  orange  peel ;  add  a 

little  sugar,  and  rub   it  till  it  comes  to  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


840  INDIAN  BOHlsmC   SCONOMT 

fine  paste;  incorporate  well  half  an  ounce  of  the  best 
pounded  ginger;  put  a  pound  of  sugar  upon  the  fire  with 
a  little  water ;  skim  it  and  put  in  the  paste ;  let  it  boil  to 
candy  height,   and   drop   it   as    other  drops. 

Take  a  pound  of  fine  sugar-candy;  mix 
Lemon  drops*  in  the  juice  of  two  lemons  or  four  good 
limes  with  the  white  of  two  eggs  beaten 
to  a  froth;  put  in,  while  it  is  finishing,  by  degrees,  the 
zest  of  the  lemons  or  limes;  boil  to  a  candy  height;  cover 
some  oven  tins  with  paper,  sift  sugar  over,  and  drop 
them  and  put  them  in  the  stove. 

Take  fine  pounded   sugar  half  a  pound,  with 

PqtpermifU  the  white  of  two  eggs;   drop  into    it  one   hun- 

drops.       dred  and  twenty  drops  of  the  oil,    and  mix  it 

well;    drop  them  off  the  point  of  a  knife  on 

to  the  sugared  paper,   and    gently   dry  the  drops  over  the 

fire  or  oven. 

Make  goor  or  jaggery  into  a  thick  syrup  with 
To  make      water ;   clarify   with  the  white  of  an   egg ;   strain 
treacle,     it  and  boil  until  of  a  proper  thickness. 

Put  clarified  syrup,  containing  some  rasp- 
Barley  sugar,  ed  lemon  peel,  into  a  saucepan  with  a  lip, 
and  boil  it  to  caramel  height,  carefully  skim- 
ming it  as  it  boils ;  have  ready  a  marble  slab,  slate,  or  the 
back  of  a  large  dish,  well  buttered,  and  pour  the  syrup 
along  it  of  the  thickness  required  for  the  sticks  of  barley 
sugar ;  twist  every  stick  at  each  end  while  hot,  to  give  it 
the  usual   form. 

One  pound   of  treacle,   one  pound  of  moist  sn- 

Toffey.      gar,  and  half  a  pound  of  butter ;  it  must  be  done 

over  a  clear  fire,   and  in  a  saucepan  large  enough 

to  allow  of  its  boiling  fast ;  first  take  the  butter,  and,  widi 

a  knife,  rub  it   on   the  bottom   of  the  saucepan  until  it  is 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKBBY.  341 

melted;  then  add  the  treacle  and  sugar,  stirring  all  gently 
with  the  knife  until  the  whole  is  in  a  boiling  state ;  have 
dose  at  hand  a  basin  of  cold  water,  in  which,  after  it  is 
boiled  for  about  ten  minutes,  drop  a  little  from  the  knife 
point ;  if  you  can  take  it  from  the  water  in  a  crisp  state, 
it  is  done  enough.  .This  will  require  very  nice  atten- 
tion, or  it  will  be  spoilt  by  tasting  burnt.  Have  ready  a 
large  dish  rubbed  over  every  part  with  a  small  portion 
of  butter ;  when  the  toffey  has  arrived  at  the  crisp  point, 
immediately  put  the  whole  into  the  dish,  and  let  it 
remain  until  cold;  then  turn  the  dish,  and  give  it  a  rap 
or  two  on  the  bottom,  and  the  toffey  will  fall  out  in  pieces. 
It  must  not  be  allowed  to  be  exposed  to  the  air,  but 
kept  dry  in  a  canister  or  bottle. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTEE  XXII. 


DRINKS,  LIQUEUES,  Etc. 

Pound  very    fine  eight    ounces   of    sweet 
Almond  drink      almonds    (blanched)   and  half    an    ounce    of 
or  orgeaU         bitter,  in  a  marble  mortar,   with  two  table- 
spoonfuls    of    orange-flower    water    to    keep 
them  from  oiling ;   them  mix  with  them  half  a  pint  of  rose 
and  the  same   quantity  of    pure  water;  rub   it  through    a 
tammy  cloth   or  sieve  until  the  almonds   afe  quite  dry;  to 
this   must  be  added  a  pint  and  a  half  of  clarified  sugar    or 
clear  syrup;    boil  it  for   a  minute,  and  when  cold,  put   it 
into  small  bottles    close  corked.    A   table-spoonful    is   suffi- 
cient for  a  tumbler  of  water. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  and  one 

Orgeat    (or    cU*    ounce  of  bitter  almonds  are  to  be  blanch- 

mond  drink) for    ed  and  thrown  into  cold  water ;   then  beat- 

present  use.        ^en  in  a  marble  mortar   and  moistened  with 

a  little  milk  or  rose-water  to  prevent  their 

oiling;  three  pints  of  fresh  milk  are  to  be  mixed  gradually 

with  them,  and  sweeten  with   pounded   sugar  or  syrup;  this 

is    then  boiled,    stirred   until  cold,    and    strained  ;    when   a 

glass   of  white  wine  or   brandy  is  to  be  added. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  and 
Anotker  way.  pound  them  finely  with  a  little  orange-flower 
water,  one  quart  of  pure  water  being  added 
by  degrees;  sweeten  with  refined  sugar  or  syrup;  strain 
through  a  napkin,  and  put  into  a  bottle  to  be  iced  or 
cooled. 

Ofo.— This  will    only  answer  for  the  day  it  is  to  be  used. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOltT   AND   COOKEET.  843 

Take    the    juice    of    four    limes,   tlie  rind 

Barley  mead,     pared    thin  of  two,    four    table -spoonfuls    of 

honey    and    half  a   pound  of    pearl    barley; 

put  it  into  a  jug  or  other  vessel,   and  pour  two  quarts  of 

boiling  water   upon  it;   let  it  stand  to   cool  and   strain  it. 

One  ounce  of  pearl  barley,  half  an  ounce 
Barley  water,  of  sugar,  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon  or  couple 
of  limes  put  into  a  jug ;  pour  upon  it  a 
quart  of  boiling  water ;  let  it  stand  for  eight  or  ten  hours ; 
then  strain  off  the  liquor,  adding  a  slice  of  lemon.  This 
makes  a  very  grateful  drink  for  invalids.  A  little  wine  may 
be  added  to   convert  it  into  negus  or   rum  for  jiunch. 

One  bottle  of  wine,   half  a  pound  of  sugar  or 
Negus,      cappillaire  and  a  sliced  lemon   or  two  fresh  limes  ; 
add  three  quarts  of    boiling  water,  and  grate  nut« 
meg  to  the  taste. 

Pour  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  upon  three 
Another,       ounces  of  pearl  barley,  a  quarter  of  a   pound  of 
sugar,  and  a  lemon  sliced  ;  when  cold,  strain  the 
liquor,   and   add   a  pint  of  wine  and  a  glass   of  brandy. 

Take  the  juice  of  six  fine  limes,  the  peel  of 
Milk  le-  three  pared  very  thin,  two  wine-glasses  of  syrup, 
manade.  half  a  pint  of  madeira  or  sherry,  and  one  quart 
of  boiling  water  ;  put  it  into  a  covered  vessel, 
and  let  it  stand  twelve  hours  ;  then  boil  half  a  pint  of  new 
milk,  and  pour  it  upon  the  mixture  ;  after  which,  run  it 
through  a  jelly   bag   till  it  is   quite  clear. 

Put  the  rinds  of  thirty  limes  pared  fine, 
Mili  punch,  in  a  bottle  of  rum ;  let  ^it  stand  twenty-four 
hours ;  then  take  three  bottles  of  water,  one 
bottle  of  lime  juice,  four  pounds  of  powdered  sugar,  two 
nutmegs  grated,  and  six  bottles  of  rum,  arrack  or  brandy; 
mix  all  together;  add  two  quarts  of  milk,  boiling  hot;  let 
it    stand  two  hours ;  then  strain  it  through  a  flannel  bag. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


344  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  BCONOUT 

Pare  sixty  limes  as  thin  as  possible ;  pour 
Another.  over  the  peel  one  bottle  of  ram ;  plac  e  it 
covered  up  in  the  sun  three  days  ;  afterwards 
boil  four  quarts  of  milk  down  to  half  the  quantity  over  a 
slow  fire ;  take  five  quarts  of  water^  three  quarts  of  rum, 
the  lime  peel  and  rum  prepared  as  above,  one  quart  of  lime 
juice,  three  pounds  of  China  sugar ;  stir  up  well  ;  grate  six 
nutmegs,  and  pour  quickly  over  the  whole  the  two  quarts 
of  boiling  milk  ;  cover  it  up  close ;  keep  half  an  hour ; 
then  strain  it  through  a  double  Qannel  bag  until  perfectly 
clear  ;  bottle   and  cork.     This  makes  one  dozen. 

Take  two  handfuls  of  thinly  sliced  lime 
Another.  peel,  put  it  into  a  jar  or  wide  mouthed  bot- 
tle with  two  quarts  of  rum.  In  a  second 
bottle  put  half  a  tea-cupful  (of  each)  of  finely  pounded 
mace,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  with  the  same  quantity  of 
mm  as  with  the  lime  peel,  stop  both  close  and  put  oat 
into  the  sun  or  stand  near  a  fire  for  twenty-four  houra-^ 
take  six  pounds  and  a  half  of  fine  white  sugar  and  dis- 
solve it  in  nine  pints  of  water,  let  it  stand  on  the  fire 
until  the  scum  breaks,  then  take  it  off  and  let  it  remain 
until  the  next  morning,  when  skim  and  pour  the  clear 
syrup  into  a  large  vessel,  add  one  bottle  of  strained  lime 
juice,  then  the  contents  of  the  lime  peel  and  spices  from 
the  jars  or  bottles,  with  four  quarts  of  boiling  milk,  stir 
all  well  up  and  carefully  strain  through  a  flannel  bag 
or   napkin. 

Obs, — Should    it   run  thick    at    first  return    it   into    the 

bag,   but   be  careful  not   to  disturb   the    curd.    This   is    a 

west   Indian   recipe. 

• 

Mix    seven    pounds  of    molasses     in     four 

Spruci  Beer,    gallons   of  boiling  water   and  four  gallons    of 

cold;   put  in  three  table-spoonfuls    of  spnice 

essence;   whisk   it   well  up  with   three   spoonfuls  of  yest  or 

half  a  pint  of  toddy ;  put  it  in  a  cask^  and  roU  it ;  bottle 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  S45 

it  when  the  working  ceases,  and   wire    or  tie  and    put  it 
in  a  cool  cellar. 

Two  gallons  of  water,  two  and  a  quarter 
Ginger  beer,  ounce  of  ginger,  three  quarters  of  an  ounce 
of  cream  of  tartar,  two  pounds  of  sugar-candy, 
one  lime;  the  whole  to  be  mixed  with  the  water  boiling 
hot,  and  a  tea^spoonfol  of  sweet  toddy  added  to  each  bot- 
tle before  corking:   ready   in  two   days. 

Obs. — ^The  corks  must  be   tied   tight   down. 

Take  two  table-spoonfuls  of  finely  pound- 
Ginger  beer,  ed  ginger,  one  tea-spoonfd  of  cream  of  tar- 
(my  way, J  tar,  put  these  into  a  jug,  and  add  a  quart  of 
hot  water;  let  the  liquor  stand  until  cool; 
then  pour  or  strain  it  dear  from  the  sediment  into  & 
large  bowl  or  soup-tureen;  take  the  juice  of  six  limes, 
four  or  five  table-spoonfuls  of  clear  syrup,  (add  two  glass- 
es of  white  wine  if  you  like)  with  five  pints  of  pure  water 
and  a  claret  glass  of  scindie  or  toddy  in  a  state  of  fer- 
mentation; keep  working  the  whole  well  up  together  for 
a  minute  or  two,  and  bottle  in  soda-water  bottles  (if  pro- 
curable,) tieing  the  corks  well  down  with  string,  which 
if  properly  managed,  both  will  last  for  several  batches* 
This  quantity  should  fill  nine  bottles,  one  of  which  must 
always  be  kept  for  the  next  brew ;  and  in  this  way  may  be 
continued  for  any  length  of  time.  By  this  means  all  the 
unpleasant  taste  of  the  toddy  is  got  rid  of;  some  persons 
add  a  little  beer,  which  is  a  matter  of  mere  taste.  Impe- 
rial is  made  in  the  same  way,  substituting  half  an  ounce 
of  cream  of  tartar,  instead  of  ginger,  which  should  be  dis- 
solved in  hot  water  and  the  peel  of  a  couple  of  limes  cut 
thin  allowed  to  soak  in  it.  This  gives  a  flavour  and  is 
generally  approved  of.  After  once  or  twice  making  these 
drinks,  a  person  will  be  enabled  to  judge  of  their  quality, 
and  add  or  take  away  any  ingredients  accordingly.  The 
bottles  should  be  kept   in  a  cool  place  under  wet  straw  or 

TJl 


Digitized  by 


Google 


346  INDIAN.  DOMESTIC  SCONOHT 

near  a  tatty  or  in  earthen  coolers.    It  will    be  fit  to  drink 
in  less  than  twenty-four   hours. 

Take  a    bottle     of    good    ale,     a  glass  of 
Cool  tankard   white  wine,  or   a  glass    of  brandy,   as   much 
or  mug.        syrup  of  capillaire  as  wQl  sweeten  it,  a   sprig 
of  blam,  mint,  or  borrage--«  toast  well   cover- 
ed with     nutmeg,   and  pour  the  liquid  over   it. 

Obs. — It  should  be  made  at   least   a  quarter   of  an  hour 
before   required,   that    all    the  ingredients    may   incorporate* 

Take  a  bottle  of  good  ale  or  porter;  put 
Mug  (my  into  a  covered  jug  the  juice  of  two  limes,  part 
way,)  of  the  peel  cut  thin,  a  glass  of  white  wine 
and  some  grated  nutmeg,  enough  syrup  to 
sweeten  it,  a  handful  of  fresh  mint  or  a  leaf  or  two  of 
borrage;  pour  upou  this  a  pint  of  water,  and  put  it  to 
cool  and  stand  for  fifteen  minutes;  then  add  the  bottle 
of  beer  or  porter. 

Ohs* — ^It   may  be  made  at   once   and  drunk,  only  adding 
the  beer   last. 

Take  the  peel  of  pumplenciose  cut  very  titiB, 
Biitera.  or  of  lime,  lemon,  or  bitter  orange ;  put  into  a 
wide-mouthed  bottle,  and  fill  up  either  with 
brandy  or  white  wine;  cork  tight  and  place  in  the  san 
for  a  few  days.  This  forms  a  most  useful  and  elegant 
bitter. 

Obs. — It  may  be  also  made   with  dry   peel   from    any   of 
the  above  fruits. 

Take  four  ounces  of  pounded  augar,  a 
Sack  posset,  pint  of  sherry  and  some  grated  nutmeg; 
warm  them  over  the  fire  until  the  sugar  i» 
dissolved;  then  beat  up  ten  fresh  egga,  and  strain  them 
into  a  quart  of  new  milk  that  has  beoi  boiled  (but  st<Nid 
until  oool)>   and  add  the  wine  and   sugar ;  put    the   whole 


Digitized  by 


Google 


▲HO  OOOKS&Y.  347 

into  a  dean  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  keep  stirring  until 
it  is  nearly   boiled^   when  remoye,   or  it   will  curdle. 

Mix  two    or    three    table^poonfuls    of   ho- 
AthoUbroie.    ney  with  brandy,   whisky,    or   rum;  make  it 
of  a  proper  consistency.    Some  add  .  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  beaten  up  in    it. 

Take    Seville     orange    juice  or     lime    one 
Sir%b,  Ume      pound  and  a  half;  strain  and  add  four  pounds 
or  orange,     of  whit«  sugar  with  four  pints  of  best  Jamai- 
ca rum. 

Put  two  quarts  of  brandy  into  a  large 
Skfigb  brandy,  bottle,  with  the  juice  of  five  lemons  and 
the  peels  of  two;  stop  it  up,  and  let  it 
stand  three  days;  then  add  three  pints  of  white  wine,  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  loaf-sugar  and  half  a  nutmeg ;  strain 
it  through  a  flannel  bag,  and  it  will  be  found  excellent. 

Take  the  rind    cut    very    thin    of   twenty- 
Punch  ciam-    four   limes,    and   soak    twenty-font    hours    in 
pagne.  twienty-four    glasses    of    hot    French    brandy; 

th^  add  ^the  juice  of  forty-eight  limes 
and  six  pounds  of  fine  pounded  sugar,  twelve  glasses  of 
rum,  twdre  glasses  of  marischino,  six  bottles  of  cham- 
pagne, six  bottles  of  wat^;  let  it  stand  for  six  or  eight 
days  in  a  vessel;  then  strain  it  dear  through  a  flannel 
bag ;  bottle  and  cork  it  wdl :  smaller  quantity  in  the 
same  proportion.  If  required  for  immediate  use,  pass  the 
whole  through  a  flue  lawn  strainer  until  it  is  perfectly 
dear^  bottle  and  cool  it. 

Pare,  as  thin  as  possible,   the  rinds  of  two 

BsgenU.  China  oranges,  of  two  lemons  and  of  one  Seville 

orange,  and  infuse  them  for  an  hour  in  half  a 

pint  of  thin  cold  syrup;  then  add  to  them  the  juice  of 

the  firuit ;  make  a  pint  of  strong  green  tea ;  sweeten  it  well 


Digitized  by 


Google 


348  INDIAN   BOMBSTIC  BCOKOMT 

with  fine  sugar^  and  when  it  is  quite  cold,  add  it  to  the 
fruit  and  syrup,  with  a  glass  of  best  old  Jamaica  mm,  a 
glass  of  brandy,  one  of  arrack,  one  of  pine  apple  syrup 
and  two  bottles  of  champagne;  pass  the  whole  through  a 
fine  lawn  sieve  until  it  is  perfectly  clear ;  then  bottle  and 
put  it  into  ice  until    dinner  is  served. 

Cut  a  ripe  pine  apple  into    slices,  put  it 

Pine  apple       into  a  deep  bowl  with  two  pounds  of  fine  su- 

cardinal,      gar,  let  it  remain  three  hours,  and  then  pour 

over  it  one  bottle  of  sherry,  one  of  Bhenish 

wine  and  one  of    champagne:  let   it    stand  a  short    time 

before  it  is    served. 

Clean  and  scald  the  peaches  as  directed 
Peach  Liquor*  for  jam ;  when  ready  turn  them  out  inlo 
a  sieve  or  jelly  bag,  and  let  the  juioe 
drain  from  the  fruit  without  squeezing;  add  to  each  pint 
of  juice  an  equal  quantity  of  light  French  brandy,  or  spirits 
of  wine,  and  the  same  proportion  of  cold  syrup  to  the 
whole,   when  filter  and    bottle  the    liquor. 

Put  six  ounces  cut  thin  of  dried  pumple- 
Pumplemose  mose  skin  and  coarsely  pounded,  into  a  bottle 
liguor.  of  French  brandy;  after  it  has  been  infused 
ten  or  twelve  days  in  the  sun  and  strained, 
add  a  quart  of  clarified  syrup  and  filter,  though  the  latter 
will  be  found  hardly  necessary  if  the  infusion  has  been 
properly    cleared. 

Take  a   tea-spoonful  of  tincture  of  cinnamon, 
BaUamum        and  put  it  with  a  little  sugar  in  a  glass  of 
vita.  sherry  or  madeira  with  the   yolk  of  an  egg 

beaten  up  in  it. 

Take  one  drachm  of  oil  of  cinnamon;  add 
Cinnanum        two  ounces  of  the  best  French  brandy  or  proof 
essence^        spirits  of  wine. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOK£ET.  349 

Fat   three  ounces  of  braised  cinnamon  in- 

Tincture  o^   to  a  bottle    of    French  brandy  ;   let  it    stand 

Cmnaman.  for   a    fortnight,  shaking  it  occasionally,    then 
strain  it. 

Pimento,    so    called    from    possessing    the  fla- 
AlUpice*   vour     combined    of  cinnamon,      cloves,    nutmegs 
and  pepper. 

Take  oil  of    pimento   one    drachm,    to     which 
Essence,  add,  by  degrees,  proof  spirit  two  ounces.    A  few 
drops  is    sufficient    to  flavour  a  pint  of   gravy. 

May  be  made  by  bruising  three  ounces  of 
Tincture  allspice  and  adding  a  bottle  of  Trench  brandy ; 
put  this  out  daily  in  the  sun^  for  ten  or  twelve 
days,  shaking  it  occasionally ;  then  strain  or*  filter  off  the 
liquor  clear.  It  is  very  useful  for  flavouring  mulled  wines, 
gravies,  and  potted  meats. 

Heat     any    quantity  of    wine    with  nutmeg, 

Winejlip*    cloves,    and   sugar;  to  every  gill  of  wine,  allow 

a  yolk;    mix    it  with  a    little    cream    or  cold 

wine,   and  pour  it  backwards  and  forwards  tiU  well  mixed. 

Put  a  quart  of  ale  on  the  fire  to  warm,  and  beat 
FUp.  up  three  or  four  eggs  with  four  spoonfuls  of  moist 
sugar,  a  tea-spoonful  of  grated  nutmeg  or  ginger, 
and  a  quartern  of '  good  old  rum  or  brandy ;  when  the 
ale  is  near  boiling,  put  it  into  a  jug  and  the  rum  and  eggs 
into  another;  keep  pouring* from  one  to  another  until  it 
is  as   smooth  as  cream. 

Take    boiling    water    instead    of  ale ;    sugar 
Another,      and    spice    it;     beat    up  four  eggs    with  four 
glasses  of  madeira  or  sherry,  and  treat  in .  the 
same    manner. 

Obs»—T]m  is  a  pleasanter  and  lighter  beverage  than  the 
former* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


350  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  BCONOMT  AND  COOK£RY. 

Is  prepared  at  Oxford  as  follows :  whisk  up 
Sumjwtian  to  a  froth  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  add 
them,  to  a  pint  of  gin  and  a  qnart  of  strong 
beer;  boil  up  a  bottle  of  sherry  in  a  saace-pan,  with  a 
stick  of  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  grated^  a  dozen  large  lumps 
of  sugar^  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon  peeled  very  thin; 
when  the  wine  boils,  it  is  poured  upon  the  beer  and  gin 
and  drank  hot. 

May  be  made  with  claret,  madeira,  &c.. 
Mint  Julep,  but  the  usual  way  is  as  follows :  Put  into 
a  tumbler  about  a  dozen  sprigs  of  the 
tender  shoots  of  mint;  upon  them  put  a  table-spoonful 
of  finely  pounded  sugar  or  syrup,  with  equal  proportions 
of  peach  and  common  brandy,  so  as  to  fill  it  up  nearly 
one-third,  and  fill  up  the  remainder  with  rasped  or  pound- 
.ed  ice;  as  the  ice  melts    you  drink  it. 

Mix  three  bottles  of   red  wine '  with    three 

Sangarie*        half  pints  of  water,   a  whole  nutmeg    grated^ 

a  little  cinnamon  and  sugar  to  your  taste ;  set 

the   mixture  on  the  fire  to  boil,  then   take   it  off,   let  it 

remain  covered  till  cold,   strain  and  bottle   it. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTEE    XXIII. 


CORDIALS. 


In  making  cordials,  the  best  spirit  that  can  be  used 
is  rectified  spirits  of  wine,  as  imparting  less  foreign  taste 
than  any  other  and  extracting  and"  imbibing  any  flavour 
that  may  be  given  to  it  without  altering  it  in  any  way.  The 
next  article  of  importance  is  the  syrup,  which  should  be 
made  from  the  best  sugar,  as  laid  down  elsewhere,  and 
never  mixed  hot  with  the  spirit.  In  some  cordials,  the 
flavouring  article  is  to  be  mixed  with  the  spirit  first ;  in 
others,  with  the  syrup;  and  in  some  the  sugar  is  to  be  dis- 
solved in  an  infusion  of  the  flavouring  substances:  much 
depends  upon  the  colouring  matters — red,  pink,  yellow 
and  green  being  only  generally   used. 

Is  made  with  one  ounce  of  pounded  cochi- 
Pink  or  red     neal  infused  in  two  ounces  of    spirits  of  wine ; 
let  it  stand  in  the  sun    for  a  few  days,  shak- 
ing it  from   time  to    time. 

Put  into  a  four  ounce  phial  half  a  drachm  of 
Yellow,    sailron,   or    two    drachms   of    sappin   seed   pound- 
ed ;  add  two  ounces  of  spirits  of  wine,  and  put  it 
out  in  the  sun  as  the  last;   when  strain   it  for  use. 

Fill  a    wide*mouthed   bottle  with    vine  or    spi- 
Green,     nach  leaves;    and  add   as    much  spirits  of    wine 
as  it  will  hold;  put  it  in  the  sun,  and  when  of  a 
bright   green,  strain    it  for   use. 

06s. — ^The  juice  of  the  ripe  jfruit  of  the  prickly  pear  an- 
swers as   well  as    cochineal. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  blanched  bitter  almonds 
Noyeau.      or  peach  kernels,   the  thinly  pared  rind  of  a  cou- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


352  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

pie  of  limes  cat  into  bits ;  Bruise  them  in  a  mor- 
tar as  fine  as  possible ;  put  them  into  a  large  bottle  with 
two  quarts  of  rectified  spirits  of  wine;  cork  the  bottle- 
put  it  out  in  the  sun  for  a  week,  shaking  it  well;  then 
strain  the  liquor  from  the  almonds,  and  filter  through 
white  blotting  paper  or  muslin ;  then  add  the  syrup,  mixing 
it  well  with  the  spirit.  It  may  be  used  immediately,  but 
it  is  better  for    keeping. 

Obs, — ^To  prepare  the  funnel  for  filtering,  put  a  few  slips 
of  wood  or  bamboo  down  inside  the  funnel.  To  make  the 
filter  square,  a  sheet  of  blotting  paper  put  corner  to  cor- 
ner, and  double  it  again ;  the  slips  of  wood  prevent  the  pa- 
per adhering  to   the  funnel,    and  accelerate  the  proceai^. 

Into  a  quart  of  spirits   of  wine,  put  twen- 
Ncyeau,  white,    ty  drops    of  good   essential   oil  of  bitter  al- 
monds, and  six  drops  of  oil  of  orange,  shake 
it   well,  and  then  add  a  quart  of  syrup;  filter  it  through 
paper  until  it   is   clear   and  bright. 

To  a  quart  of  spirits  of  wine  add  fifteen 
Noyeau,pini.  drops  of  essential  oil  of  bitter  almonds^ 
three  drops  of  oil  of  roses,  four  drops  of  oil 
of  aniseed,  and  one  drop  of  tincture  of  vanilla;  shake  it 
well,  and  add  a  quart  of  syrup  with  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  the  pink  colouring  matter  to  make  the  liquor  of  a  de- 
licate colour  ;   after,   filter  and  bottle   for  use. 

To  a    quart    of  spirits     of  wine,   add  twenty 
AnUeite.     drops  of  essential  oil  of  aniseed  ;   after   shaking 
it  welly  mix  with  it  a  quart  of  syrup  ;  then  filter 
and  put   into   bottles. 

Add  forty  drops  of  oil  of  cloves  to   a 
Cream  of  Cloves    quart  of  spirits  of  wine ;  after  shaking  it 
— Creme  well,   mix  with  a  quart  of  syrup  as  much 

de  girofle.  red    colouring  matter    as   will  impart    to 

it  a  good  colouring.    Filter    through  pa- 
per and  bottle    immediately. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKEEY. 


853 


To   a  quart  of  spirits  of  wine  add  twenty 

Cream  of  drops  of  oil  of  cinnamon  and  two  of  oil  of 

cinnamon        '  roses^  with  three  of  oil  of  nutmeg ;  shake  the 

^■^OrSme         mixture  well^  and  when  the  oils  are  dissolved, 

de  eanelle.       add  a  quart  of  syrup  and  a  sufficient  quantity 

of  the  red  tincture  to  produce  a  bright  full 

colour;  filter  and  bottle. 

Into   a  quart    of    spirits   of  wine,  put 

Hose  cream  twelve   drops  of  oil   of  roses   and   three   of 

— Creme  de      oil  of   nutmeg ;  shake    it    well  and  add  a 

Soie,  quart  of  syrup,  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of 

the  pink   tincture  to  produce  a  rose  colour. 

Into  a  quart  of  spirits  of  wine,   put  twelve 

Cream  of         drops  of  tincture  of  vaniUa ;   shake  it  well  and 

vanilla.        add   a  quart  of  the  syrup ;  when  well  mixed, 

let  it  stand  ten  minutes;  then  filter  it  twice 

or  thrice  if  necessary* 

Into    a    quart    of    spirits    of    wine,   or    four 

Curagoa.      ounces  of  spirits   of  orange,   drop  one  hundred 

and   twenty   drops  of  oil  of  bitter  orange ;  when 

the  latter  is  dissolved,   add  one   quart  of  cold  sjrup  ;  then 

filter  and  bottle   the  liquor. 

To  a  quart  of  spirits  of  wine,  add  twelve 
Golden  water,  drops  of  oil  of  aniseed,  six  drops  of  oil  of 
cinnamon,  eight  of  oil  of  citron,  and  three 
drops  of  oil  of  roses;  as  soon  as  the  oils  are  dissolved, 
mix  with  the  liquor  a  quart  of  the  syrup ;  filter  it,  and  before 
you  bottle  the  liquor,  stir  into  it  a  square  of  leaf-gold  cut 
into  very  little  bits ;  if  silver  leaf  is  added  instead,  it  goes 
by  the  name  of  silver  water. 

Into  a  quart  of  spirits  of  wine,  put  sixty 
Crime  de  drops  of  oil  of  citron  (or  olium  de  cedra)  ; 

citron  or  shake   it  well,  and    add  a  quart  of  cold 

lemon  cream.        syrup ;  add  two  ounces  of  the  yellow  colour- 
ing matter;  and  filter  through  filtering  paper, 
w  1 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


CEAPTEU    XXIV 


COOLING  FLUIDS. 

The  simplest  and  most  economical  system  of  cooling 
fluids,  is  by  evaporation,  and  which  has  been  long  known 
and  practised  by  the  inhabitants  of  the  East.  The  excel- 
lency of  all  vessels  for  the  purpose,  consists  in  their  uniform 
porosity  and  thinness.  The  generality  of  the  commou 
coojah,  are  so  thick  that  the  water  passes  through  them  slowly 
and  the  evaporation  of  the  surface  is  wasted  on  the  air 
around  and  comparatively  little  reaches  the  interior ; 
many  parts  of  India  are  celebrated  for  their  coojahs  or 
guglets.  The  finest  are  brought  from  Bussorah,  being 
light,  thin,  and  porous,  made  of  a  white  clay.  The  Egyp- 
tian guglets  are  also  of  a  similar  description,  and  equally 
celebrated.  When  the  exudation  from  a  guglet  ceases  from 
use,  and  its  porosity  is  destroyed,  it  may  be  partially 
restored  by  being  boiled.  A  bottle  of  liquid,  cased  in  a 
wet  cotton  cover  and  placed  in  a  plate  or  saucer  of  water 
and  exposed  to  the  wind  or  draught  of  air,  soon  has  its 
temperature  considerably  reduced,  or  laying  the  bottles 
in  wet  straw  in  the  shade  where  the  wind  can  blow  freely 
upon  them,  answers  the  same  purpose;  but  the  straw 
must  continually  be  sprinkled  over  with  water*  Another 
method  is  to  have  a  sort  of  bamboo  cradle  made  of  open 
trellis  work,  and  suspended  like  a  punkah  in  the  shade; 
the  bottles  are  put  in  safely  with  wet  straw  or  in  cotton 
bags  and  this  is  agitated  backwards  and  forwards  and  will 
cool  the  fluid  so  treated    very  considerably. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN  DOMESTIC  EGONOMT  AND  COOKERT.  355 

A  «imple  mode  of  procuring  cold  by  evaporation;  is  to 
have  several  poroas  earthenware  vessels  suspended  in  the 
shade  in  an  open  verandah  (filled  with  water);  or  any 
place  where  the  sun's  rays  cannot  penetrate,  having  a  free 
circulation  of  air;  in  these,  bottles  may  be  placed,  and 
the  temperature  will  generally  be  found  reduced  eight  or  ten 
degrees  below  the  surrounding  atmosphere.  Wine,  soda* 
water,  &c.  is  not  in  any  way  injured  by  remaining  in 
those  vessels;  but  beer  once  cooled  and  not  used  that 
day,  should  be  returned  to  the  godown,  and  allowed  some 
time  to  recover  before  it  is  cooled  again,  else  the  chances 
are  that  it  is  rejected  and  thought  to  be  bad,  which  really  is 
not  the  case,  and  only  required  a  little  warmth  and  rest  in  the 
recovering  godown — many  a  bottle  of  beer  has  been  con- 
demned on  this  account  from  want  of  a  little  careful 
treatment. 

TO  FUEIFX  IVAT^B. 

A  simple  and  efficient  filtering    and    purifying  machine, 
is  easily  made  by  suspending  two   common,  native,   porous 
chatties  in  a  frame-work  of  wood   or  bamboo    (both  easily 
constructed)   one   over  the  other;    each  chatty  of  a  size  to 
contain  several  gallons ;  a  small  hole  must  be   made  in   the 
bottom,   large  enough  for  a  pea  to   pass    through;  this  is 
to  be  filled  up  with  a  bit  of  cloth  or  rag  very  loosely ;  in 
each    chatty  place  a    layer    of  coarsely    pounded    charcoal, 
then  a  layer  of  fine  river  sand,   and   so  on  alternately,  till 
the  vessels  are  half   filled.    When  they  are  ready    to   re- 
ceive the  water  for  filtering,  a  jar   to  contain  the  water   as 
it  drips    through,  must    be  placed  underneath ;    the  upper 
vessel  is    then    filled  with    water,  and  it  is   ready  for  use. 
If  the  water  passes  through  too  fast,  the  rag  or  cotton  in 
the  hole  must   be   screwed  a    little  tighter;    the   muddiest 
water  will  pass  through   this    filtering    machine,   pure  and 
limpid.    The  charcoal   and  sand  requires  to  be  occasionally 
renewed.    Water,  however  impure,  may  be   readily   cleared 
by  a  solution  of  alum,  or  by  stirring  a  little  alum  on  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


356  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY   AND  COOKEET. 

surface;  in  a  few  hours  it  is  perfectly  clear;  the  small 
quantity  of  alum  sinking  with  the  residue  to  the  bottom 
of  the  vessel.  The  natives  use  a  nut,  called  "nirmulee" 
the  {Strychnos  PetatorumJ  by  rubbing  it  over  the  inside 
of  the  chatty  previous  to  filling  it  with  water,  when  all 
the  impurities   fall  to  the    bottom. 

The  artificial  method  of  cooling  liquids  with  saltpetre 
and  other  salts,  is  well,  known.  The  proportion  of  nitre 
is  one  part  to  two  of  water :  a  bottle  or  metal  guglet, 
having  its  mouth  closed,  is  stirred  in  this,  for  a  few 
minutes  ;  when  it  is  perfectly  cooled ;  a  still  higher  refri- 
gerant mixture  is  produced  by  the  addition  of  two  parts 
of  glauber  salts.  The  following  tables  show  the  cold  capa- 
ble of  being  produced  by   the  ordinary  freezing  mixtures. 

All  cooling  apparatus  for  wine,  beer,  water,  fee,  in 
which  ]>sfrigeranls  are  used,  should  be  externally  well  lined 
with  some  non-conductor  of  heat,  and  the  cover  fit  close  to 
exclude  as  much  as  possible  the  surrounding  air.  The 
out^r  interstices  of  the  machine  may  be  stuffed  v^^ith  felt, 
charcoal,  wool,  or  dried  oatmeal,  and  any  one  of  the 
refrigerant  mixtures  employed. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTEE  XXV. 

FREEZING  MIXTURES  WITHOUT  ICE. 


Thermometer 


Degree 


Parte,        ^"^^^^  of  cold 

Mixtures.  froducei. 

Muriate  of  ammonia, 5T 

Nitrate  of  potash, 5  V  From+SO"    to+10"  =  40^ 

Water, 16  J 

Nitrate  of  ammonia, 11 

Carbonate  of  soda, 1  ^  From+50*    to+  7*=  =  46° 

Water, ij 

Nitrate  of  ammonia, ^lFrom+50*   to+  4°  =  46*=* 

Water, 1 J 

Sulphate  of  soda, 3]  From+50°    to+  3°  =  53° 

Diluted  nitric  acid, 2  ) 

Muriate  of  ammonia  or  sal 

ammonia, 5 

Nitre  of  potash  or  saltpetre,  5  I  jij^jj^^Sqc    ^^^  40  _  ^qc 
Sulphate  of  soda  or  glauber 

salts, 8 

Water, 16^ 

ffits^'tid.r.:;;:  «}  ^'^^^'  •«+  ^-  -  "- 

Sulphate  of  soda. 6^ 

Diluted  nitric  acid, 4  ^ 

In  order  to  produce  the  effect,  the  salts  employed 
must  be  fresh  crystallized,  and  reduced-  to  a  very  fine 
powder ;  the  vessels  in  which  the  freezing  mixture  is  made, 
should  be  very  thin  and  just  large  enough  to  hold  it ;  and 
the  materials  should  be  mixed  together  as  quickly  as  pos- 
sible.   To  produce   great  cold,   they   ought  to  be  first  re- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


358 


INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONO^IY  AND  COOKEET. 


duced  to  the  temperature  marked  in  .the  table,  hj  placing 

them    in  some   of   the   other    freezing   mixtures,   and    then 

they  are  to  be   mixed  together  in  a  similar   freezing  mix- 
ture. 


FREEZING  MIXTURES  WITH  ICE  OR  SNOW. 

Thermometer 


Founded  ice  or  snow.... 
Common  salt, «  ... 

Pounded  ice  or  snow,... 
Soda, 


Paris, 

8 

1 


3 

1 


1- 


Pounded  ice  or  snow,. 
Muriate  of  soda 

t 

Pounded  ice  or  snow, ...  da 

Muriate  of  soda, 2-^ 

Muriate  of  ammonia,...     1  ^ 

Pounded  ice  or  snow,...  24  | 

Muriate  of  soda, 10j>j 

Muriate  of  ammonia, ....     5 
Nitrate  of  potash, 5 

Pounded  ice  or  snow,...  12 
Muriate  of  ammonia,...     5 

Muriate  of  soda, 5 

Snow, 3 


)- 


to         = 


=         to         == 


to         == 


"Degree 

of  cold 

produced. 

82" 
5" 

12" 


to 


to 


=  18" 


25" 


Snow, 3     ■) 

Diluted  sulphuric  acid,    2     jrrom+32»  to  £3«  =  55° 

tetic"a^idZ;;:::::.'     5      }From+32»to27«  =  59« 


Snow,.. 
Diluted  nitric 


ic'acid;;:::::  *  |rrom+32»  to8o< 


62' 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTER  XXVI. 


MAKING  ICE. 

For  the  information  of  persons  desirous  of  producing 
ice  by  Master^s  patent  freezing  machine,  I  have  appended 
his  directions  with  a  few  observations  of  my  own,  the  re- 
sults of  several    successful  attempts. 

The  machines  are  both  with  double  and  single  pails, 
and  answer  extremely  well  for  cooling  liquids  at  the  same 
time  the  Ice  is  being  formed,  and  will  cool  wine  or  other 
liquids  to   any   extent  for   a   large  party. 

1.  The  agitator  must  be  placed  tightly  on  the  bottom  of 
the  freezer. 

2.  Pill  the  cylinder  with  pure  water,  and  insert  it  in 
the  machine. 

3.  The  charge  of  mixtures  for  the  machine  No.  2,  con- 
sists  of: 

f4    lb.  Sulphate  of  soda  (glauber  salts)  ^ 

§    -  I  24  lb.  Sal  ammoniac „  ,  , 

"^'SHai   lu    o  u    .  ^ well  pounded, 

o  S.  j  24  lb.  Saltpetre [         '^ 


I 


10  Pints  of  water J 

Where  glauber  salts  cannot  be  easily,  procured,  add  more 
of  the  sal  ammoniac  and  saltpetre  in  the  same  proportion 
as  above ;  but  in  England  glauber  salts  are  used  on  account 
of  their  cheapness. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


360  INDUN     DOMESTIC  £CONO]IY 

4.  First  put  in]ithe  sulphate  of  soda  well  pounded,  next 
the  water;  [afterwards  the  saltpetre  and  sal  ammoniac  also 
well  pounded. 

5.  Having  prepared  the  mixture  for  dessert  ice,  say  from 
a  pint  to  a  pint  and  a  half  to  each  freezer,  pour  into  them, 
and  commence  operation  by  turning  the  handle  of  the  ma- 
chine. 

6.  The  first  charge  will  require  to  be  drawn  off  by  means 
of  the  tap  into  the  cooler  below,  in  about  ten  or  twelve 
minutes,  according  to  the  temperature  of  the  water,  and 
immediately  recharged;  and  if  you  find  the  second  charge 
insufficient,  charge  a  third  time.  In  Paris  they  generally 
use  four  charges,  owing  to  the  temperature  of  the  water 
being  generally  higher  than  in  England.  By  changing 
the  mixture  as  above,  boiling  water  may  be  reduced  to  so- 
lid ice,  and  the  freezing  power  may  be  kept  up  any  length 
of  time. 

1.  Each  succeeding  mixture  keeps  up  the  freezing  power, 
three  or    four  minutes  longer  than  the  preceding  one. 

8.  It  should  be  remembered  that,  after  a  certain  time, 
the  freezing  mixtures  generate  heat,  which  would  of  course 
tend  to  dsssolve  the  ice  already  frozen,  if  not  drawn  off  by 
the  tap  as  before  directed;  which  can  be  ascertained  by 
the  thermometer,  a  necessary  appendage  to  the  machine, 
more  especially   when  chemical  mixtures   are   used. 

Oi««— The  thermometer  should  have  the  lines  of  indica- 
tion graduated  on  a  glass  back,  as  the  freezing  mixture 
removes  all  the  marks  from  a  metallic  or  ivory  one.  Ice 
can  seldom  be  made  with  less  than  four  charges,  and  not 
under  one  hour  and  a  half.  It  requires  a  great  deal  of 
attendance ;  the  salt  midces  much  dirt  and  the  mixture  cor- 
rodes every  thing.  Ice  is  sooner  formed  with  the  mineral 
acids,  but  they  are  dangerous  and  troublesome  to  use 
from  their  destructive    nature,    In    using    the    salts,    they 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  361 

most  be  minttiely  pounded,  and  free  from  all  dirt,  and  the 
water  I  add  to  them  in  the  machine,  last  of  all.  To  save 
the  continued  trouble  of  weighing  each  material,  I  used 
a  half  pint  pewter  wine-meaaure,  which  I  found  to  contain, 
as  near  as  possible,  ten  ounees  in  weight  of  the  ground 
salt.  A  native  chukkar  stone  is  an  expeditious  way  of 
grinding  the  materials  :  the  glauber  salts  are  seldom  dry 
enough  to  bear  or  require  it;  particular  attention  is  neces- 
sary to  be  paid  to  the  instruetions  laid  down  when  usbg 
the  ice  machine.  The  materials  must  all  be  prepared  and 
should  be  ready  at  hand  as  required,  with  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  each  of  the  salts  for  four  charges  at  least ;  see  that 
the  tap  is  all  ^  right  and  not  turned  off  before  adding  the 
water,  and  never  put  more  salts  to  the  solution  in  use, 
as  it  is  only  wasted ;  but  as  soon  as  the  thermometer 
indicates  an  increase  of  temperature,  fresh  charge  the 
machine. 


The  salts  in  a  combined  state,  may  be  partially  recover- 
ed from  the  solution  drawn  off  by  solar  evaporation  or 
boiliBg,  and  afterwards  applied  to  the  reduction  of  the 
temperature  of  prepared  ice  mixture  and  the  water,  pre- 
vious to  charging  the  machine  with  the  salts  for  freezing. 
These  salts  finely  pounded  with  water  in  equal  quantity, 
sink  the  thermometer  twenty-five  degrees.  The  method  of 
prepaoring  cream  or  water  ice  in  the  common  freezing 
pail>  with  ice  and  salt,  is  as  follows :  place  the  mixture  to 
be  frosen  in  the  freezer,  and  close  it ;  beat  up  the  ice 
small  with  the  due  proportion  of  salt;  put  into  the  tub, 
and  insert  the  freezer,  which  must  be  turned  quickly 
round,  and  as  the  cream  sticks  to  the  side,  scrape  it  down 
with  an  ice  spoon  or  wooden  spatula  until  it  is  froz« 
eD»  Tbe  more  the  cream  ia  worked  to  the  side  with  the 
spatida  the  amootber  and  better  flavoured  it  will  be ; 
after  it  ia  well  froaen,    take  it  out  and    put  it    into    ice 

X   1 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


362  INDIAN  DOMBsnnc  bconoht 

Are  essentially  different  from  cream  ices;  bol^ 
WcUer  ices    as  r^ards  the  preparation   and   taste :  the   one 
having    the   richness    of   the    latter,    the    other 
being   only  pore  water  flavonred  by  froit. 

Are  prepared  of  all  kinds  of  firuits,  which  if  re- 
Ices  quired,  are  acidulated  with  lemon  juice  or  crystals, 
flavoured  with  their  essences  if  necessary,  and  co- 
loured agreeable  to  the  receipt  for  the  same.  They  may 
be  also  made  of  wine,  punch,  liqueurs,  or  any  other  mix- 
ture,   according  to   taste. 

All  fleshed  fruits  must  be  boiled  and  pulped ;  the  ker- 
nels to  be  pounded  and  strained,  with  the  fruit  mixed  to 
a  proper  consistency,  sweetened,  and  iced. 

In  forming  cream  ice,  should  the  cream  be  found  not 
to  freeze  so  quickly  as  you  wish,  add  a  little  more  new 
milk.    This   applies  to  all  cream  ices. 

One  ounce  of  cochineal,  one  ounce  of  salts 
Colouring,  of  wormwood,  one  pint  of  water;  boil  for  five 
minutes  over  a  slow  fire  three  ounces  of  cream 
of  tartar  and  one  ounce  of  roche  alum;  take  it  off  the 
fire  before  you  add  the  last  two  ingredients,  which  must 
be  put  in  very  slowly,  or  the  mixture  will  overflow.  If 
for  keeping,   use  clarified  sugar   instead  of  water. 

Pick  some  fresh  strawberries  into  a  basin 
Stratoherry  or  pan  ;  add  sugar  in  powder,  with  a  quan- 
ted cream.  tity  of  strawberry  jam  equal  to  the  fruit,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon  or  two,  according  to  palate, 
a  small  quantity  of  new  milk  and  a  pint  of  fresh  cream; 
mix  and  add  a  little  colour  from  the  receipt  given ; 
freeze.     One   quart. 

To    half  a  pound  of  apricot  jam,    add  one 

Apricot  ice     pint  of  cream,  the  juice  of    one  lemon,     six 

cream,  bitter  almonds  pounded,   one  glass  of  noyeau; 

mix  in  a    mortar  \  rub   through  a  hair    sieve ; 

freeze.     One   quart. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  3G3 

Bruise   six  ounces  of   the  best  preserved  gin- 

Oinger  tee    ger  in  a  mortar  ;   add  the  juice  of  one  lemon^ 

cream.      half  a  pound   of  sugar^  one  pint  of  cream  ;  mix 

well ;  strain  through  a  hair    sieve ;  freeze.     One 

quart. 

Take  one    pint  of  cream  ;    rasp  two    lemons 

Lemon  ice     on  sugar,    scrape    off   into   the    vessel    you  are 

tfteam.       about  to  mix    in,   squeeze   them    and   add  the 

^uice  with  half  a  pound  of  sugar ;  mix  ;  freeze. 

One  quart. 

Basp  two  oranges  slightly,    lest  the  cream 

Orange  ice    become  bitter  ;  squeeze  them   with  the  juice  of 

cream.      one  lemon,   one     pint  of    cream,   half  a   pound 

of  sugar ;    pass    through   a    siere,   and    freeze. 

One  quart. 

Pound  two  sticks  of  vanilla,  or  sufficient  to 
Famllaice  flavour  it  to  palate  in  a  mortar^  with  half  a 
cream.  pound  of  sugar  ;  pass  through  a  sieve ;  put  it 
into  a  stewpan  with  half  a  pint  of  milk  ;  boil 
over  a  slow  fire  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  stirring  all 
the  time,  the  same  as  custard  ;  add  one  pint  of  cream, 
and  the  juice  of  one   lemon;  freeze.      One   quart. 

When  fresh  strawberries    cannot    be    procured^ 
Jutotker.    take  one  pound  of  strawberry  jam,  the  juice  of  one 
or  two  lemons,   one  pint  of  cream,  a  little   milk ; 
colour,  freeze.    One  quart. 

To  one    pound  of  raspberry    jam,  add  the 
Baspberryi  ice    juice  of    one    or  two    lemons,   one     pint    of 
cream*  cream,    a  little     milk ;  colour,    freeze.    One 

quart. 

To    half    a    pound     of     preserved     pineaple 

Pineapple    or  a  raw  pineapple    pouifded    with    sugar,   add 

ice  cream,  sugar  and  lemon    juice  to  palate,    one   pint    of 

cream     and    a  little    new     milk ;   mix,    freeiSe. 

One  quart. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


864  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

Take  a  middling  sized  pineapple  ;  cut  it  in 
Another,  pieces  ;  bruise  it  in  a  mortar ;  add  half  a  pound 
of  sugar^  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon ;  rub  them 
well  togetlier  in  the  mortar ;  pass  through  a  hair  sieve  ; 
freeze.  A  few  slices  of  preserved  pineapple  may  be  add- 
ed when  frozen.     One   quart. 


Hasp    two    lemons  on    some    sugar ;  express 

Italian  ice    the  juice    of  the    lemons,    to  which    add    one 

cream.      pint   of   cream,  one  glass  of  brandy,   one  glass 

of    noyeau,     half    a    pound    of  sugar ;     freeze. 

One  quart. 

Take  one  pint  of  cream,  a  little  milk,  half 
Ratafia  ice  a  pound  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs^  two 
cream,  ounces  of  ratafias ;  put  them  in  a  stewpan 
over  a  gentle  fire;  set  as  thin  as  custard,  add 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon :  when  cold,  freeze ;  take  two  ounces 
more  of  ratafias,  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  and  add  when 
the  former  is  frozen,  together  with  one  glass  of  noyeau 
or  maraschino.     One  quart. 


Take  six  ounces  of  the  best  Turkey  coffee' 
Coffee  ice  berries,  well  roasted  ;  put  them  on  a  tin,  and 
cream,  place  them  in  an  oven,  for  five  minutes ;  boil 
one  pint  of  cream  and  half  a  pint  of  milk  to- 
gether, and  put  them  into  a  can;  take  the  berries  from 
the  oven,  and  put  them  with  the  scalding  cream ;  cover 
till  cold ;  strain  and  add  one  ounce  of  arrowroot ;  boil 
like  custard,  and  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar ;  freeze.  One 
quart. 

One  pint  of  cream,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  one 
Tea  ice    ounce   of    tea,  or  a    sufScient  quantity  to    make 
cream,  one     cup :     mix    with     the  cream ;    freeze.    One 
quart. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKCET.  365 

Infose    four    or    six    onnces    of    chocolate, 
Chocolate  ice    mix  it  well    with  a  pint  of    cream,   a   little 
cream.  new  milk,  and  half  a  pound  of  sugar,   strain ; 

freeze.    One    quart. 

One  pint   of  cream,  the  juice    of   one    le- 
Maraschino      mon,  half  a  pound   of  sugar,  two  glasses  of 
ice  cream,     maraschino ;  mix,  freeze.     One  quart. 

Take  one   quarter  of  a  pound  of  pistachios 
Pistachio  ice    and  the   same   quantity    of    Jordan    almonds  ; 
cream.  blanch  and  pound   in  a  mortar  till  fine  ;  add 

the  juice  of  one  lemon,  half  a  pound  of  su- 
gar, one  pint  of  cream ;  pass  through  a  sieve ;  freeze.  One 
quart 

One  pint  of  cream,  the  juice  of  one  lemon, 
Noyeau  ice       half  a  pound  of  sugar,  two  glasses  of  noyeau ; 
cream.  mix,   freeze.    One  quart. 

Take  one  pint  and  a  half  of  lemon  ice,  and 
Timchice.        add  one  glass   of  maraschino,   two    of  cham- 
pagne and  one  of  rum,   and  the  juice  of  two 
oranges;    freeze.    One    quart. 

To   one  pint  and  a  half  of  lemon  water  ice. 
Another.  add  one  glass  of  white  rum,  one  of  champagne, 

one  of  pale  brandy,  and  half  a  glass  of  warm 
jelly;  freeze.    One    quart. 

Basp  two  lemons ;  take    the  juice  of  six  le- 

Another.    mons,  the  juice  of  two  oranges,    half  a  pint  of 

tea,  one  pint  of  clarified   sugar  ;  mix  ;   add  one 

glass  of  rum  and  one  glass  of  brandy  ;  freeze.    One  quart. 

Take  twelve  limes    to    one    quart  ;  rasp 

Lenum  or  lime     three  at  four  of  them  on  a  lump  of  sugar, 

footer  ice.         and  scrape  it  into  the  vessel  you  are  about 

to   mix  in;  squeeze  the  limes  and  add  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


366  IKDUN  Doinssnc  economy 

juice  of  two  oranges,   a  pint  of  water,  and  half  a  pint    of 
syrup;   freeze.     One   quart. 

Obs. — If  lemons  are    used|  take  only  half    as   many    as 
limes. 

Take  any  number  of  oranges  in  the    same 
Orange-water    proportion  as  limes    for  lime-water    ice,    and 
ice.  proceed  as  in  the  lime-water  ice,   only  rasp- 

ing one  half  of  the  oranges,  but  be  care- 
ful not  to  rub  the  oranges  too  hard,  or  the  ice  will  be  bit- 
ter ;  E  table-spoonful  of  warm  jelly  may  be  added  at  plea- 
sure;   strain,  freeze. 

The    juice  of    four  limes,    the  raspings 
Grape  water  ice.    of  one  orange,  a    pint  of  water,   and  half 
a   pint   of  syrup,  two  glasses  of  grape-sy- 
rup,  one   glass    of  sherry;   strain;   freeze.    One  quart. 

Take   half  a  pound   of    fresh  pineapple 
Pineapple  water    bruised  fine  in  a    mortar ;  add  the    juice 
ice.  of  one  lime,  one    pint  of   water,  and  half 

a  pint  of  syrup  \  pass  through  a  sieve  ; 
freeze.  One  quart.  Pineapple  may  be  added  as  describ- 
ed in  the  recipe  for  pineapple  cream. 

Take   one  pint    of  cherry  water,   the  juice 
Cherry  water      of  two  limes,  half  a  pint  of  syrup,  one  glass 
ice.  of    noyeau,    and    a    little     colour ;     strain ; 

freeze.    One  quart. 

Take    one    pound    of    currant    jelly,    the 
Currant  water    juice  of  two   limes,   half  a  pint    of    water, 
ice*  half  a  pint  of  syrup,  with  a  little   colour; 

strain  ;  freeze  >    One    quart. 

Found  two  sticks  of  vanilla   (or  so   much 
Vanilla  water    as  may  be   deemed  sufficient  to  give  a  pre- 
fer, per   flavour)   in   a    mortar ;    put    half  a  pint 
of  water  in  the  mortar  so  as  to  get  all  out; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKEEY.  367 

put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  one  pound  of  sugar ;  boil  to- 
gether ;  strain  through  a  fine  sieve ;  add  the  juice  of  one 
or  two  limes;  freeze.    One   quart. 

Take  six  pounds   of  sugar   and   six    pints   of 
lb  clarify    water,  half  the  white    of  air  egg  well   beaten   up, 
9ugcr.      and  mix  it  to    the    water ;  boil  ten  minutes,  re- 
moving  all   the  scum. 


TO  PRESEEVE  ICE  FOR  COOLING  WINES,  I>pc. 

The  ice  basket  or  box  must  be  thickly  wadded  with  numb- 
dar  (a  coarse  woollen  rug  made  in  the  country)  inside 
and  out,  and  this  wrapped  in  double  or  treble  blankets 
or  cumblies,  large  enough  to  fold  over  the  whole ;  if  a  box 
is  used,  holes  must  be  made  for  draining  off  the  water  at 
the  bottom — a  basket  is  therefore  preferable,*  it  is  to  be 
kept  in  a  closed  dark  room  in  the  coolest  part  of  the  house 
that  can  be  appropriated  to  it.  The  ice,  if  broken  and 
loose,  must  be  compressed  into  a  ball,  and  tied  firm  in  a 
doth  (as  it  dissolves,  the  cloth  or  bag  tightened);  it  is 
then  to  be  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  basket  or  box,  which 
should  be  large  enough  to  contain  the  quantity  of  bottles 
or  articles  to  be  cooled ;  the  edge  only  of  each  touching 
or  resting  on  the  bag  of  ice,  is  sufiicient  for  as  many  bot« 
ties  as  can  be  placed  in  this  position;  carefully  wrap  up 
the  basket  after  removing  any  of  its  contents,  and  take 
care  that  the  water,  as  the  ice  dissolves,  drains  off  imme- 
diately. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTER    XXVII. 


VOCABULAEY  OP  CULINARY  TERMS. 

A  savoury   transparent  jelly,  in   which  game,    poul- 
Aspic^         try,  fishy  &c.  may  be  moulded — ^used  aUo  for  gar- 
nishinpc  them. 


.}■ 


jg  '  J*  )  A    dish    which  is    handed  round    the    table 

f     only ;  such   as   fondeaus,    and    other  prepau 
Volante.    V     rations,   which    require  to   be  eaten  hot. 


Blanquette.    A  fricassee. 

Bauilin.     Quenelles  formed    into   balls  and    either   poached 
or  fried. 

Baine  Marie.    Any   flat  vessel^  containing    hot    water. 
BouiUL     Boiled    meat,     but    more     generally    boiled    beef. 
BouiUie.'    A  sort  of  hasty   pudding. 
Bouillon.  Broth. 

Braise.  A  rich  seasoned  gravy,  in  which  particular  arti- 
cles  are    stewed. 

Braiaicre.  A  braising  pan,  made  of  copper  or  tin,  deep 
and  long,  with  two  handles  and  a  lining 
inside  with  the  same,  to  help  to  take  out 
the  contents ;  the  lid  indented  so,  that  fire 
may  be   placed  upon  it. 

Bttisson,  e».— Pastry  piled    on     a    plate    like     a    pyramid. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDIAN  DOVBSTIC  KCONOMT  AND   COOKERT.  S69 

Casserole.  A  stew  pan^  or  rice  crust  moulded  in  the 
from  of  a  pie  and  baked,  to  be  filled  with 
mince,  or  puree  of  game,   &c. 

Court  -%  A  preparation    of  vegetables,  herbs   and  wine. 

Bouillon,     ^     in  which  fish  is  boiled. 

ConeammS,       Clarified  rich  gravy  or  broth. 

Croustade.  A  case,  or  crust  of  fried  bread,  in  which  pu- 
rees   of  game,   &c.   are  served. 

CrofiUon.  A   sippet    of  bread. 

Borure.  The  yolk    and  white  of  an  egg  beaten  up  to- 

gether. 


Entree  de 
Besserte. 


f  A  dish  made  of  the  preceding    day's  remains. 
Entree.  A  dish  of  the  first  course,  served  with  the  fish. 


Entremets.        Dishes  of  the  second  course,   served  between 
the  meats  and  dessert. 

Emince.  The  fleshy  part  of  a  fowl,  game,  or  meat,  chopped 

fine. 

Espa^nole,  or  Spanish  sauce.     A  brown  gravy  of  high  flavour. 

Farce.  Forcemeat  of  chopped  meat,  fish,  or  herbs,  with 

which  poultry  and  other  things  are  seasoned. 

Fondee.  A   cheese  souffle. 

FeuiUetage.      Puff  paste. 

^'    1  Inside  small  fillets. 
none.  •' 

Gateau.  A  cake— also  a  pudding — sometimes  a  kind  of 

tart. 

Tl 


Digitized  by 


Google 


370  IlflUAN  DOlCBflTIC  XOOKOHY 

Glacef  I  To  redace  a  saace  by  boiKng  to  a  proper  tkick- 

(to  glaze.)    i     ness,  sofficieiit  to  adhere  firmly  to  the  meat. 

Gratin.  The  burnt  to  in  a    saucepan. 

Gratiner.  To  redace  the  liquid  to  dryness  by  fire. 

Horsd'  auvres.^tasiX  dishes  of  the  first    course,    served    as 
relishes. 

Lardoire.  An  instrument  for    larding  meat. 

LiaUon^  A  thickening  with    two  or  four   eggs. 

Macaroncinu    A  small  kind  of  macaroni.   * 

Marinade.  To  preserve  meat  or  fish  in  wine  and  vin^ar, 
with  seasoning    herbs. 

Mark.  1\>  prepare  the  meat  which  is  to  be  dressed  in  a 

stewpan, 

Ma^h  Is  to  cover   with  some    sauce  or  ragout. 

Maigre  Made  without  meat. 

Matelotte.  A  rich  stew  of  fish  (mostly)  with  wine,  &c. 

Meringu^.  Covered  or  iced  with  a  Meringu^    mixture. 

Meringues.  Cakes  of  sugar  and  white  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
paste  and  baked. 

NouillSs.  A  paste  made  of  flour  and    yolks  of  eggs,  then 

cut  small    like  vermicelli. 

Noixofveal.  That  part  to  which  the  udder  is  attached  ; 
the  flat  part  under  it,  is  called  sous  noix ; 
the  side  part,  contre-noix ;  the  petites  noix 
are  found  in  the  side  of  the  shoulder  of  veal. 

Puree.  Meat  or  vegetables  reduced  to  a  smooth  pulp, 

and  then  mixed  with  a  sufiicieut  liquid  to  form 
a  thick    sauce. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  371 

P^indelA  pat  of   butter,    from  one  ounce  to  one  and  a 
ieurre.  J      half. 

Paner.  To  sprinkle  with  crumbs  either  fish,  cutlets,  &c.  . 
if  for  frying,  egg  only  must  be  added,  but  if 
for  boiling,  butter,    to  preserve  a  good  colour. 

FanureB.    Every  thing   that  has  bread  crumbs  over   it. 

Parer.    To  trim  meat  of  skin,    nerves,    &c. 

Paujneties  Are  slices  of  soles,  fowls,  &c.  on  which  a  farce 
of  the  same  is  thinly  spread,  rolled  and  trim- 
med. 

Piquer  Is  to  lard  with  a  larding  pin  the  exterior  of 
veal,  fowl,  game,  &c. ;  and  to  lard  is  to  cut  fat 
bacon,  tongues,  &c.  into  small  square  shapes  to 
lard  through,  giving  the  meat  a  mottled  ap- 
pearance. 

loSle.  Almost  the  same  as  braizing,  the  only  difference 
is  that  what  is  poSl^,  must  be  underdone,  braize 
must  be  thoroughly    done. 

QueneUes.  French  forcemeat,  in  which  calf  s  udder  is  ge- 
nerally used  with  meat,  game,  fowl,  &c., 
minced  in  proportions. 

Biiiolet*    Small   fried  pastry,  either  sweet  or  savoury. 

Baux,ipiite-\  Is  prepared    with    melted     butter    and     flour, 
or  brovm.   )      either  boiled  white  or  fried  brown. 

Sauter.  Is  to  lay  fillets,  cutlets,  &c.  in  a  stewpan,  after  hav- 
ing dipped  them  in  the  least  quantity  of  but- 
ter, with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  covered  with 
paper  to  exclude  the  dust,  and  set  aside  till 
dinner  time;  a  few  minutes  before  serving, 
put  the  saute-pan  on  a  hard  fire,  and  when 
the  contents  are  done  on  both  sides,  drain  them. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


87£  INDLLN  DOVSSrnC  XCONOIIY  AND  COOKERY. 

Salpicion.  la  meat^  mushrooms^  truffles^  &c.  cut  into  small 
squares,  all  of  which  must  be  dressed  and 
put  into  a  very  reduced  espagnole,  and  when 
cold,   used  as  directed. 

Sparghetti    Naples  ▼ermicelli. 

Stock.    The  unthickened    broth  or    gravj  which  forms    the 
basis  of  soups  and    sauces. 

Singer.  To  dust  flour  from  the  dredging  box,  which  af- 
terwards must  be  moistened  in  order  to  be 
dressed. 

Tammis.    A  strainer  of  fine   thin  woollen  canvas  for  broths, 
sauces,  &c« 

7       I  Are  found  at  the  extremity  of  the   ribs. 

Tourte.  A  delicate  kind  of  tart,  baked  in  shallow  tin  pans, 
or  without  any  in  a  crust  made  with  fluted  tin 
cutters. 

Vol  au  Vent.    Made  only  of    the  lightest    and    finest  puff 
paste. 

Zita.    Naples  macaroni. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTRE    XXVIII. 


ORIENTAL  COOKERY.    - 

PBELIMIXART    RBMARKS. 

The  culinary  processes  followed  by  the  Mussulmen  and 
Hindoos  of  Asia  differ  as  widely  as  did  the  plain  household 
cooking  of  the  English,  in  former  times,  from  that  of  their 
continental  neighbours  the  French.  In  the  Hindoo  Sans- 
crit receipts,  meat  is  never  mentioned,  whereas  in  the  Ko- 
ran, Niamut,  and  other  works  in  Persian,  the  followers 
of  the  Faithful  indulge  in  it  as  well  as  other  luxuries  the 
produce  of  the  East,  game,  meat,  fowl,  fish,  with  spices 
and  other  condiments. 

The  Hindoo  delights  in  cakes  of  wheat  and  various  grains, 
rice  dressed  in  different  ways,  curries  prepared  from  v^e- 
tables,  ghee,  and  oil,  flavoured  with  spices,  and  the  acidity 
of  vegetables,  accompanied  with  chatneys  of  various  descrip- 
tions, and  pickles  made  either  with  vinegar,  oil,  or  salt, 
and  above    all,     milk  and  ghee. 

The  Mussulman  prepares  his  food  more  substantially, 
using  meat  freely,  but  from  the  mode  of  dressing  the  lat- 
ter, knives  and  forks  are  superfluous,  for  after  their  meat 
has  been  roasted  or  broiled,  it  is  in  the  driest  state  pos- 
sible, and  may  be  torn  asunder  with  ease,  the  same  with 
their  boiled  meat,  rendering  both  nearly  as  indigestible  as 
leather. 

The  native  fire-place  is  made  with  clay ;  the  two  sides  of 
equal  length;  the   centre  having  a   convex  surface  to  raise 


Digitized  by 


Google 


374  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

the  fire,  so  that  the  heat  may  be  as  near  the  bottom  of 
the  vessel  as  possible.  They  fry  their  cakes  on  brass,  iron, 
or  earthen  dishes ;  the  two  former  generally  have  rings  or 
handles  attached;  the  vesseb  in  which  they  dress  pillans, 
corriesi  &c.  are  made  of  the  same  materials;  a  wooden 
roller,  simikr  to  an  English  rolling-pin,  is  used  for  cakes 
and  rubbing  down  moistened  substances;  a  long  iron  flat 
spoon  and  ladle  and  one  bored  with  holes,  serves  to  add, 
remove,  or  stir  the  ingredients  while  cooking.  A  vegeta- 
ble cutler  and  scraper,  a  flat  stone  with  roller  for  grinding 
the  curry  musalahs,  an  iron  or  stone  mortar  and  pestle, 
with  a  coarse  knife  or  two,  form  the  principal  part  of  their 
culinary  apparatus  and  is  chiefly  all  that  is  required  by 
them. 


The    principal   dishes    of     the     Mussulman    are    pillaus, 
curries,  brianees,  ashes,  and  cakes. 


The  pillau  is  a  purely  oriental  dish,  and  is,  in  fact,  the 
only  way  of  dressing  meat  intended  to  be  eaten  without 
the  assbtance  of  a  knife ;  thus  vension,  meat,  kid  or  poul- 
try are  always  stewed  down,  and  the  gravy  containing  the 
essence  of  each,  with  onions  and  spices,  is  used  to  flavour 
the  rice,  and  the  latter  forms  the  principal  part  of  a  com- 
mon pillau.  When  meat  is  added,  it  is  either  roasted, 
grilled,  or  boiled  first,  with  seasoning,  and  then  put  into 
the  rice,  and  rather  steamed  than  boiled  in  it;  the  same 
with  fish  or  forcemeat  balls.  When  the  latter  is  used,  a 
portion  of  the  meat  is  generally  set  aside  for  the  purpose 
of  making  them  with  other  savoury  additions.  Therefore 
to  make  a  pillau,  the  prescribed  quantity  of  rice  is  first 
parboiled ;  it  is  then  removed  from  the  water  and  strain- 
ed ;  the  gravy  which  has  imbibed  the  flavour  of  the  meat 
is  added  to  it,  with  spices  and  onions,  and  occasionally 
vegetables.  The  meat  previously  prepared,  is  placed  in  the 
centre*  and  the  saucepan  with  its  contents  set  over  a  char- 
coal fire  to  simmer  gently;  some  fire  also    being  put  on 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKBRY.  375 

the  top  of  the  saucepan.  When  the  rice  is  sufficientlj 
dressed,  the  pillau  is  served ;  occasionally  a  part  of  the 
rice  is  only  flavoured  with  the  gravy,  and  the  rest  boiled 
plain  or  coloured,  and  melted  butter  or  ghee  poured  over 
the  rice  before* taken  from  the  saucepan;  but  if  the  pillau 
is  to  be  sweetened  and  made  a  Cbarcheneedar,  this  ia 
done  after  by   pouring  acidulated  syrup   over    it. 

Sometimes  the  rice,  or  part,  previous  to  being  boiled, 
is  roasted  or  fried  a  light  brown  in  ghee,  in  which  cloves 
and  sliced  onions  have  been  fried,  aud  then  prepared ; 
bat  whether  this  is  the  case  or  not,  the  first  essence  of  the 
meat,  game,  fish,  &c.  forms  the  principal  medium  for 
flavouring  the  pillau,  and  hence  a  native  entertainer,  in 
asking  you  to  partake  of  venison,  game,  or  fowl,  would 
oidy  mean  as  to  the  pillau  so  flavoured— the  articles 
themselves  seldom  appearing  in  their  original  state. 

The  native  method  of  roasting  is  genenJly  over  char- 
coal, or  in  a  closed  vessel,  with  a  portion  of  melted  butter, 
onions,  spices,  &c.  with  which  the  meat  or  fowl  becomes 
flavoured ;  and  I  may  here  remark  on  the  subject  of  roast- 
ing in  this  way,  that  it  is  by  far  the  cleanliest,  especially 
in  camp  or  marching,  where  the  wind  and  dust  cannot  be 
otherwise  kept  off. 

Curries  consist  in  the  meat,  fish,  or  vegetables  being 
first  dressed  until  tender,  to  which  are  added  ground  spices, 
chillies,  and  salt,  both  to  the  meat  and  gravy  in  certain 
proportions;  which  are  served  up  dry,  or  in  the  gravy; 
in  fact  a  curry  may  be  made  of  almost  any  thing,  its  prin- 
cipal quality  depending  upon  the  spices  being  duly  proper* 
tioned  as  to  flavour,  and  the  degree  of  warmth  to  be  given 
by  the  chillies  and  ginger.  The  meat  may  be  fried  in 
butter^  ghee,  oil,  or  fat,  to  which  is  added  gravy,  tyre, 
milk,  the  juice  of  the  cocoanut^  or  vegetables,  &g.  All 
of  these,  when  prepared  in  an  artistical  manner,  and  mix- 
ed in  due  proportions,  form  a  savoury  and  nourishing  re- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


376  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

pasty  tempting  to  the  organs  of  scent  and  taste  ;  bat  if 
carelessly  prepared^  are  as  equally  disagreeable  to  the  eye 
and   stomach. 

In  the  preparation  of  native  dishes,  the  term  Boghar  is 
constantly  used,  and  the  only  explanation  given  of  it  is, 
that  the  article,  whatever  it  may  be,  is  placed  with  spices, 
ghee,  or  the  substance  mentioned,  in  a  closed  saucepan  or 
vessel,  over  the  fire,  to  admit  of  its  imbibing  the  flavour, 
and  this  is  sometimes  directed  to  be  done  two  or  three 
times.  The  nearest  approach  to  the  meaning  in  English, 
would  be  to  give  it  a  warm  up  with  so  and  so,  but  the 
native  idea  is,  that  by  adding  one  substance  to  the  other 
and  placing  fire  on  the  top  of  the  lid,  as  well  as  under 
that,  the  preparation  imbibes  a  fiavour  by  this  means. 
Again  meat  or  fowl .  is  directed  to  be  rubbed  over  with 
some  particular  article,  such  as  Bassun,  (fiour  of  ground 
horse-gram)  and  to  be  immediately  washed  off;  after  that 
some  spice  is  to  be  used,  and  treated  in  the  same  way,  or 
Moultan  mud  (which  is  believed  to  be  yellow  ochre) ;  in 
some  of  their  dishes,  the  paun  soparee  leaf  is  directed  to 
be  used,  and  even  metallic  preparations.  Most  of  these 
would  be  disagreeable  to  a  European  palate,  and  are  there- 
fore omitted,  though  found  in  the  receipts ;  and  which,  if 
copied,  a  literal  translation  would  require.  One  or  two  are 
given,  more  as  a  curiosity  than  supposing  they  will  ever 
be  tried,    however  piquant  they  may  be  to  an  Asiatic  palate. 

Brianees  are  spiced  dishes,  resembling  a  mixture  of  pil- 
lau  and  curry;  the  meat,  fish,  or  cheese,  &c.  being  high- 
ly seasoned  and  partially  fried,  then  put  into  a  saucepan 
with  other  condiments,  such  as  rice,  gravy,  ghee,  milk,  dhye, 
&c.,  in  various  proportions,  covered  carefully  down  and 
boiled  or  steamed.  The  native  method  of  performing  the 
latter  operation  is  very  simple,  merely  placing  a  cloth 
stretched  across  the  vessel  above  the  water,  and  the  article, 
whatever  it  may  be,   is  put  upon  it     and  the  lid    covered 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  cookrhy.  877 

down ;  or^  by  potting  straw  or  grass  into  the  vessel^  so  as 
to  be  above  the  water,  and  placing  the  meat  or  cakes  upon 
it^  as  will  be  found  directed  in  several  receipts.  If  they 
wish  to  prevent  a  substance  from  being  burnt  to  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pan  in  which  it  is  cooked,  from  its  being  cov- 
ered over  and  not  able  to  be  seen>  they  lay  slices  of  bam- 
boo split  across  the  bottom,  and  place  the  article  upon 
them,   this  is  not  unusual  in  JSiiropean  cookery. 

Are  meat  and  vegetable  cut  into  slices,  and 
KAubah^       spiced>  or  eke  pounded  and  formed  into   balls; 
they  are  then  strung  on  wires  or  wooden  skewers 
and  roasted  or  fried;   served   dry   or  with  gravy. 

This  is  composed  of  meat,  flour,  pulse,  vegetables, 
kit.     fruit,  sugar,  milk,   dhye,  and  spices  in  various  quan- 
tities, and  from  the  manner  6f  preparing,    in  some 
instances    resembles    an    hotch-potch  rfe' others    cakes  are 
stewed,  and  some    approach   a  simple  ^rH^e. 

All  of  which    differ    widely  ^frpia  the    Euro- 
Bread  and    pean»  and  would  not  generally  jbe  aj^proved   of ; 
eake$^       the  dough  being  heavy  from  the i. use  of  leaven 
and  its  exclusion   from    other  fermenting    sub- 
stances, 
0&»«— The  best  kind  are  Buka  Kanah   and  Sheer   Mahl« 

Are  composed'  of  all   description  of  vegetable 
Ciatneyt    substances,  made  hot  with  chillies,   mustard,   pep- 
per, &c.  and   are   both   sweet  and  sour,  according 
to  the  material. 


7l 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


878 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMT 


ASH  MAKOODEE  KCX)PTA. 


Matton,  .  . 
Mineed  Meat, 
Ghee,    -    -    - 

Eg?.    -    -    No, 
Onions,      -    • 

Choknnder, 

Carrots, 

Sugar, 

Lime  juice. 

Cinnamon, 

Cloves, 

Cardamons, 


1  Seer« 
i     » 


i^etch. 


Almonds, 
Black] 


Cut  the  mutton  into  small  sUoes, 
the  size  of  almonds,  and  fry  it  with 
some  of  the  onions  sliced  in  ghee; 
then  add  as  much  water  as  will  boil 
the  meat;  when  done,  remove  it  from 

}the  gravy  and  give  it  a  "boghar*** 
)  „each.    ^[\ji   the    cloves,   and    a   little  more 
.    2Masha8.    ghee;    then    take    the    raw    minced 
j  i|   Mcach.    meat,    with   the    rest    of    the    onions 
I  "^ifaiJ!  ^**"    and    green    ginger    chopped  fine,   the 
o^^SerMediT  l**^®^*       salt  and  black  pepper,  mix  or  pound 
chiiUes,  ...  2  Mtthas.    these  well  together,  add  the  white  of 

Green  ginger,        2  Tolaht.         _  j  ^  i.i_  •   *  n 

Salt,  .  -  -  -  3     »  the  egg,  and  form  the  mass  mto  small 

^^^"^^     ■*    »  balls,  the    size    of   marbles,    and   fry 

them  in  ghee;  make  a  syrup  with  the  lime-juice  and  sugar, 
and  put  one  half  of  the  fried  balls  into  it,  and  the  re- 
mainder of  the  balls  into  the  gravy  first  made  from  the 
meat,  with  the  chillies  and  coriander  seeds  roasted  and 
ground  as  for  a  currj;  mix  these  well  together,  then  add 
the  fried  meat,  cinnamon,  and  cardamons,  with  the  vege- 
tables previously  dressed;  grind  the  almond  with  the  rice 
in  a  little  water,  and  mix  this  also ;  cover  the  saucepan 
close,  and  give  it  a  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  when  remove 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  fried  balls  and  syrup.  Serve 
with   the  saffron  sprinkled  over  it« 


1  Seer* 
A    Mashai. 


MattoB, 

Ohee,  - 

Onions,     • 

Green  Giiiger,      2    Tolahs. 

Bioe,    -    -    .    -4  Seer. 

Chennah,  peeled,!  Tolahs. 

l^re*    -    -   -      1  Seer. 


ASH  MASTHANA. 

Phice  the  meat  in  an  empty  vessel 
over  the  fire;  allow  it  to  draw  until 
a  scum  forms  on  the  meat,  which 
must  be  scraped  off;  then  slice  the 
meat  and  the  onions,  and   grind  the 


*  For  an  explanation  of  this  term,  see  Atk  Jait,  page  360. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


Xmo  COOKEKT. 


879 


Sii»o;/.il£l..  """»«»l«i"*;  put  the  whole  into  a 
g^ljMioM.  1  ^ ,  J-  '  saucepan  with  the  paluk,  the  chen- 
Chimes,      f    sha.  iiah^  and  the   rice  soaked  the  previous 

Co^udbr  routed,  9  Tobhs.  ^^g^t;  add  the  saffron  with  some 
■^*»/  -  -/^  »  water,  and  boil  it  briskly  until  the 
meat  is  done;  strain  the  tyre  and 
add  it  with  some  ghee,  a  little  zeerah,  salt,  a  clove  or  two 
of  garlic,  and  the  mint  chopped;  mix  the  whole  together, 
gire  it  a  boil  up  and  serve. 

ASH  SUNGSHERE. 


Mvttoi,     .   -    -  1  Seer, 


i&. 


.): 


Bioe,  •    -     •     "  f    M* 
White  Cheniuh,    2Tolafae. 
Blanched  Almond,  2     „ 
Onians,         "1 

8ojaGTee]is,J 


Cut  the  meat  and  onions  in  slices 
and  fry  them  in  ghee;  add  a  little 
water  and  the  chennah  to  it  and  boil 
until  the  meat  is  done ;  strain  off 
the  gravy,  fry  the  meat  again  in  a 
little  ghee  with  the  cloves  and  cori- 
ander seeds  ground,  until  it  is  dry; 
Cudamoni,'"|each  1  Ma-  then  put  it  into  a  sauccpau,  with 
Coriander    "|  the  milk  and    tyre  strained,  and  give 

Gree^nger,  f^htha.  *"  it  ja  boil ;  add  a  few  tolahs  weight  of 
G^anoD,  -  .  1  Mah.  ffoxmi  rice,  and  stir  it  well ;  then 
throw  in  the  remainder  of  the  rice, 
together  with  the  spices,  the  carrots^  soya  and  paluk;  next 
by  the  almonds  in  a  separate  pan;  mix  the  whole  to- 
gether, and  simmer  gently   until  cooked. 

ASH  BOGURRAH. 


Hvtiim,  .  -  •  1  Seer.  Cut  the   meat  in  pieces,    slice    the 

Qiiae,'.'.*.  -|   r>  onions,     grind    the     musalah    into    a 

SJSW.   JtL.,  V^^   ^itt    a    Uttle    water,    and    add 

^^*™*™^»  leach    2  to-  it  to  the  meat,  and  fry  the  whole  in 

CirdamoMjJ     ^^ 


ghee  till  brown;  then  add  a  propor- 


^  AU  the  apices  or  aeaioniDg  ingredients  used  ia  nativo  cookery,  are  called 
"Mu 


Digitized  by 


Google 


280 


INDIA^r    DOKXSTIC   ECONOMY. 


SSS-'. "  i^^**  tionate  quantity  of  water  and  simsucr 
Saffron,  -  -  -  1  Mash^  the  nieat  till  tender :  next  knead  the 
flour  into  a  paste  with  some  toddy  or 
lummier;  roll  it  out  fiak,  double  it  into  six  or  «even 
layers  and  cut  it  into  slices  about  two  inches  long  and  haU 
an  inch  in  breadtE ;  boil  these  in  water  and  add  to  the 
meat;  shake  the  whole  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minuies 
and  remove.    Serve  with  the  saffron  sprinkled  over  it. 


ASH  LINGUA  JAGURATH. 


Mutton,  -    - 
Hard  IVte, 
Wheat  Flour, 
Ghee,    -    - 
Oniona,   -    - 
Chennah,    • 
Boont, 
Cinnaraoii, 
Cazdamoj 
CloTes^ 
CapBiouB. 
Oreen  gioger, 
Coriander, 
aaffron,  - 
GarHc,  -    - 
Salt,   .    . 


Boont,     -    - 
[^innaraoii,    "^ 
ISazdamojiB,    m 
JloTes,  T 

^apBifium,     J 


1  Seer. 


i  Tolahs. 


each  2  Ma- 


Cut  the  meat  in  pieces,  grind  the 
musalah  into  a  paste  with  the  green 
ginger  and  garlic,  and  fry  the  wh0|*e 
in  ghee;  next  knead  the  flour  as  in 
the  last  receipt ;  roll  it  flat  and  cut 
it  into  small  i»quare  pieces;  strain 
the  tyre  through  a  cloth  and  boil  the 
dough  thus  prepared  in  it  with  the 
chennah  and  boont ;  then  add  the 
meat  with  a  small  quantity  of  water, 
and  simmer  till  the  meat    is  tender  * 

give    the    whole   a   "  boghar"    with  the   cloves,  and    serve, 

sprinkling  the  safl'ron  on  the  top. 


1  Tolah. 

1 

1; 

6 

2ToUha. 


ASH  LUNGARA  CHASNEDAR. 


Mutton,    ...       1  Seer. 
Ghee,      •    -    -        i 
Jloar,  -    -    - 
Sugar,    -    - 
lime  juiee,    - 
Onions,  -    - 
Chnkunder,    - 
Carrots, 

Soya  gleans,  \  ^^ 

Cinnamon, 

Cloreii,         teach    2    Ma- 


Cardamons 
Saffron 


non,  "^ 

nons,  r 
».        J 


shas. 


Boil  the  meat  with  the  chnkunder 
and  carrots;  cut  into  slices  with 
the  musalah  ground  into  a  paste; 
then  remove  from  tlie  vessel^  and 
strain  off  the  gravy;  "boghar"  it 
with  ghee  and  onions;  add  to  the 
gravy  the  paluk  and  soya;  prepare 
the  flour  as  in  ash  bogurrah;  put  it 
with  the  gravy,  containing    the  paluk 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKE&T. 


381 


Ones  S^BS^> 
CajpiiciUD,  - 
Bi3^-    -    . 
Coruiidir,   • 


STolalm. 

1  MaslM. 

2  TohliB. 


and  soya ;  boil  up  the  wfaide ;  then 
throw  in  the  meat^  and  remove  from 
the  fire ;  when  cold^  mix  in  the  syrup^ 


spiinUe   over  the  safiron  ground  in  vater>  and  serve  it. 


ASH  KOOSHTHULLEE. 


\ifhni  flow. 


Sal 

White  Chennah  ) 

or  Bhall,     j 

Chnkimder,  ^    • 

Carrots,     •    -    • 

Pihik.  ] 

Native  greens,  j 
Saffotn,    >    •    • 
Onions,     -    • 
Sngar,     .    -    - 
Oreen  Oinger,  • 
dloves,       *) 
Canbmons,  Vcadi  1  Hasha. 
Capsicoms,  3 
dsnuBOiia    •   •    2    M 
LimejoiDe,     -    •  4  Seer. 
Salt,.   .    •    .     i 


1  Seer. 

•  t    »» 

9  Tolahs. 
^Seer. 

i     . 
IMaAa. 

^  Seer. 

IToiah. 


Fry  the  onions  in  ghee  till  brown; 
cut  the  meat  into  pieces  and  throw 
it  into  the  stewpan,  with  the  corian- 
der previously  roasted  and  ground, 
and  fry  it  brown;  then  add  a  seer 
of  water  and  simmer  till  done;  next, 
boil  in  a  separate  vessel  the  chennah, 
chukonder,  poluk,  and  the  carrots ; 
when  BufiBdently  dressed,  put  them 
with  the  meat  and  rest  of  the  musalah 
ground  mto  a  paste ;  knead  the  flour 
with  water  and  make  a  dough,  which 
form  into  small  balls,  and  gradually 
throw  them  into  the  pot;  take  the  vessel  from  the  fire; 
remove  its  contents  into  a  separate  dish^  mix  the  sugar 
prenoosly  made  into  a  syrup,  with  the  lime  juice,  and 
lastly  the  saffron  ground  in  a  small  quantity  of  rose  water ; 
mix  this  with  the  whole,  when  it  is  to  be  served. 


Tolah. 


ASH   BAYURTHA. 


Motton, 
¥kmr. 


-     1  Seer. 
-      i     « 

Chennah*       -       1  Toiah. 
^••nt^    -    •    -     J  -«_ 
Bard  tyn,  2  Seers. 

Onioos,       --in 
Qreen  ginger,        1  Tolah. 
Gaiiic,        -    -     4     w 
Cinnamon,  ^ 
Gloves,         I 

Ctoibunons,  Veach2  Maihas. 
Saffiran,        I 


Take  half  of  the  meat,  cut  it  into 
small  pieces,  and  fry  with  a  part  of 
the  pounded  musalah  in  a  portion  of 
the  ghee,  till  brown ;  mince  the  re- 
mainder of  the  meat,  and  fry  it  with 
the  chennah  and  boont  and  the  re- 
maining ground  musalah;  knead  the 
flour  with  water,  and  form  it  into 
square    cakes;  place    the  fried  mince 


Digitized  by 


Google 


SSi  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOUT 

Coriander  weds,  t  Toiaiu  OD  one  side^  and  tom  over  the  other* 
Gariic,  '-'-  •  2  Muhas.  SO  as  to  endose  the  meat  and  fona 
a  triangle  in  shape,  and  press  the 
edges  close ;  fry  them  first  in  ghee ;  then  remove  and  bo9 
them  in  water  mixed  with  the  tyre;  now  place  a  clean  pan 
on  the  fire  with  some  garlic,  clovesi  and  ghee;  throw  into 
it  the  cakes  together  with  the  meat  that  was  first  fried ;  then 
add  the  water  in  which  the  cakes  were  boiled^  and  allow  the 
whole  to  simmer  till  the  meat  becomes  soft ;  remove  the  pan, 
grind  the  saffron  in  water,   and  mix  it  with  the  ash. 

ASH  JOW. 

Boil  the  jow  three  successive  times 

^**B»riqr'  ^  -  \  8e«^.        ^  *  ^^^    quantity   of  water  ;     the 
Heat,  -  -  -     In  fourth  time    add  a   little  more   than 

Onions,    -    -    -    t     It 

^*'^^»  \  each  1  Maaha.  on  the  former  occasion  and  continue 
boiling;  cut  the  meat  in  pieces,  and 
mix  it  with  the  usual  musalah  for  a  good  curry  and  dress 
it ;  when  the  meat  is  quite  soft,  strain  the  gravy,  and  add 
the  meat  to  the  boiled  jow;  now  put  in  a  clean  stewpaa 
with  some  ghee,  the  sliced  onions,  garlic,  and  a  little  spice; 
place  it  on  the  fire  until  the  onions  are  browned.  The  jow, 
meat  and  gravy  are  to  be  now  quickly  thrown  in^  and  eaver- 
edj  and  the  mixture  is  to  remain  only  a  minute  or  so  on  the 
'fire,  shaking  and  repeating  it  three  successive  times.  This  lat- 
ter process  is  termed  by  the  Mussulman  cooks — BogAar. 

ASH  MAHECHA. 

Grind  the  musalah ;  cut  the  meat 
into  pieces,  and  fry  altogether  in  the 
ghee;  when  nearly  dry,  add  water  in 
proportion,  and  allow  it  to  simmer ; 
next  form  the  flour  into  a  thin  paste 
with  water,  cut  it  into  small  cakes, 
and  throw  it  into  the  meat ;  mix  the 


Mutton,  .    -    -     1  Seer. 

rionr,    -    -    - 

» 

Ghee,      -    -   - 

n 

Onions,      -    - 

n 

Sngar,     -    -    - 

n 

Limes,  -    -    - 

» 

Blanched  Al^  \        . 
monds,    -  j        ■    '» 

Baisins,    ^ 

Pistachio    •  each   i    „ 

nuts,     ^ 

Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKEBT.  883 

Cmnamon  ^  whole ;  when  the  cakes  are  quite  cook- 
cio?e»,  '  feach  3  Ma-  ed,  boghat  the  whole  three  succes- 
GBidaaons,  J  sive  times;  allow  it  to  cool  and  mix 
SSSiSri  "uh.^  '^^  in  the  lime  juice  and  sugar  made  in- 
Salt,     -  .  -  3  ToUhs.  ^  gyj^p .  jjQ^    bruise  the    pistachios 

and  almonds^  add  them  with  the  raisins  to  the  whole^  and 
serve  for  use. 

ASH  AGRA  SHEER. 

Take  any  quantity  of  dough ;  spread  it  out  with  a  roller ; 
sprinkle  some  dry  flour  on  the  surface;  roll  it  up  and  cut 
it  into  very  thin  slices;  open  them  out,  expose  it  for  a  short 
time  to  the  air,  boil  it  in  water,  remove  it,  press  it  gently 
with  a  cloth,  aid  throw  it  into  warm  sugar-candy  syrup 
and   milk;  it  is   fit  for  use* 

ASH  DERBAHESTH. 

Boil  the  milk ;  make  the  sugar  in« 
Wbwtiour,^  -  iBeer,  ^  ^  ^^^   syrup ;  mix  both  together 

^^  "  ■  '  1  "  ^^  ^^  i*  aside;  knead  the  flour  in- 

to a  paste;  spread  it  with  a  rollar, 
ud  cut  it  into  pieces  of  the  shape  and  size  of  almonds; 
expose  it  for  a  short  time  to  the  air;  then  fry  them  in 
ghee;  mix  them  with  the  milk  and  syrup:  boil  the  whole 
for  a  few  minutes;  after  which,  it  is  ready  for    use. 

MYHE    JOGURATH. 

Strain  the  tyre  through  a  cloth; 
SnJ^r.'.i^''  dry  on  the  fire  a  little  of  the  rice; 
Biee,-  •  -  -  4    „  pound  it  and  mix  into  the   tyre;   set 

the  saucepan  on  a  gentle  fire,  next 
wash  the  remainder  of  the  rice,  and  throw  it  in;  when 
nearly  boiled,  add  the  milk,  and  continue  boiling  till  done; 
it  is  then  fit  for  use;  add  either  salt  or  sugar  according 
to  taste. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


S84 


Milk,    -   . 


cooked. 


INDIAN  Domsnc  zcoKoirr« 
MYHE   JOQURATH.    (Another.) 


Mix  the  tyre  and    milk     together^ 
and   boil  them;  now    wash  the   lioey 
throw  it  into  the  vessel,  and  contiiiue 
boiling   until    the  rioe  it    saffieiently 
Sugar  or  salt  may  be  added  to  the  iaate. 


-    1  Smt. 


BRIANEE. 
ZAREBEIAN  PUKNEEZEE. 


\  ToUht 


Bioe,  - 

Gbep, 

^w,      •    -    •    t 

Onions,  -    -    - 
Myd*,      -    -    . 
Ore«n  Chennah  )    ,  q^^ 
Dhall,  ]  T^^- 

Cinnamon,  •    -     2  Haahas. 
CaidamonO 
Cloves,        Veach  1 
Hnldie,      J 


Cat  the  cheese  in  small  round  slices 
and  sprinkk  tiiem  with  the  myda, 
and  fiy  in  ghee  till  bvown ;  then  grind 
the  cardamons  and  safion ;  mix  in 
the  tpe,  and  put  with  the  cheese  ; 
spread  on  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan 
some  bamboo  sticks,  and  place  the 
&«ngiasi.  -  1  Toldi.  cheese  upon  them;  fry  the  onions. 
'       '    '  "       green  ginger  and  curry  stuff  and  put 

widi  the  cheese ;  then  parboil  the 
rice,  and  put  it  over  with  a  smaU  quantity  of  the  rice 
water;  cobur  a  Utile  rioe  with  saffiron,  put  it  info  the 
saucepan  under  the  tice  on  one  nde  and  the  green  chen- 
nah dhall  on  the  other^  and  pour  over  some  hot  ghee ; 
make  a  plain  biscnit  or  cake  with  a  little  flour  and  water 
and  place  it  upon  the  rice;  cover  the  saucepan,  and  put 
a  little  live  charcoal  on  tiie  top  and  boil  the  whole  till 
the  rice  is  done. 

ZAREBB.IAN  NOOBMAHALEE. 


Heat, ". 

Rioe,  - 
Ghee,    • 
Tyre, 


ISear. 
1    « 


Oreen  Chennah ) 
Phall,  } 


Sear. 

\    n 


Gut  the  meat  in  large  slices,  and 
season  with  a  littie  sdt  aad*  some 
pounded  ginger,  and  let  it  remain 
for  half  an  hour ;  then  soak  it  in  the 
tyre  for    an  hour;    put    half  d  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOJUSRT.  S85 

CinuuBoii,  .  •  1  Haaha.  ghee  with  somc  sliced  onions  into 
SSSSoiis,leMh  1  „  *  saucepaii,  and  fry  them ;  when  the 
^JJI^    4^^      J  onions   are    brown,   put    in  the  meat 

Green  ginger,  -  1  ToWi.  and  fry  it  a  little ;  then  pour  over 
Corander  Meda,  *  1  ULuht^  it  a  Small  quantity  of  water  with 
the  coriander  seeds,  ground,  and  boil  till  the  water  is  dri- 
ed up ;  then  add  the  spices  and  mix  them  together  with 
the  meat;  parboil  the  rice  in  plain  water,  and  put  it  up- 
on the  meat;  have  ready  a  little  rice  coloured  with  saf- 
fron and  place  it  in  the  centre  of  the  rice,  and  spread  over 
the  green  chennah  dhall,  and  pour  upon  it  some  hot 
ghee ;  cover  the  saucepan  close  and  place  it  on  a  charcoal 
fire  for  one  hour,  when   it  will  be  ready   for  use. 


ZAEEBfilAN   BOOAfEE. 

Cut   the  meat  in  large  slices,  and 

Meat,  .  .  -  -i  Seer.  scasou  it    with    some    bruised    crreen 

Ghee,  -  -   -  -A     „  ginger,    conander   and    salt   and  soak 

Sitena, '.'-"-I     "  i*   for    an     hour;   grind   some   carda- 

^nainon,  -  -  2  Mashaiu  ^ons,    saffrou    and     clovcs,   with  the 

^2^[  each  1     ^  tyre,   and  rub  it  in  the  meat  and  let 

seeds,  J  it    stand    for    a    few    minutes :    then 

Coriander  seeds,  -  1  Tolab.  x    -i.     •    j.  -.       , ,       , 

Sait^  .  .  .  .  8  „  put  it  mto  a  saucepan  and  add  all 
the  remaining  spices  with  half  of  the 
ghee ;  soak  the  rice  in  water  for  half  an  hour,  and  wash 
it  two  or  three  times  and  put  it  over  the  meat;  pour  upon 
it  half  a  seer  of  water  with  the  remaining  ghee,  and  cover 
dose  the  saucepan;  place  some  charcoal  fire  upon  the 
cover  and  let  it  gently  simmer  until  the  water  is  whoUy 
reduced. 


ZAREBRIAN    JUNTHUB. 

Jtot,  ....  3  Seen.  Cut    the  meat  in  large  slices,   and 

Coaiieiyre,   -.2    \]         soak   it  in  somc    bruised    green  gin- 

*     "         ger  and   salt  for  an  hour ;  grind  the 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


386 


INDIAN    DOHKSTIC   ECONOMY 


Onions,      •    -    •  1  Seer. 
Black  pepper,    -     2  Mashas. 
Cinnamon,       -    -  4      „ 
Green  ginger,      •    2  Tolahs. 
Cloves,  "i 
Carda.     •     each  2  liashas. 

mons,  ) 
Cnnunin  seeds. 
Coriander  seeds, 
Saflron,      -    - 
Salt,  -    -    -    - 

2  Tokhs. 

-  1  Masha. 

4Tokhs, 

cardamons  and  saffron  witli  Iialf  the 
tyre  and  coriander  seeds;  add  these 
together  and  rub  over  the  meat  and 
let  it  stand  for  a  short  time;  put 
the  meat  into  a  saucepan  with  the 
cummin  seeds  and  spices  and  a  little 
ghee;  soak  the  rice  in  water  for  a 
few  minutes^  and  wash  it  in  two  or  three  waters;  then  mix 
a  little  salt  in  another  basin  of  water,  and  put  the  rice 
into  it ;  stir  it  well  and  wash  it  again  and  mix  it  with  the 
remaining  half  tyre;  put  it  over  the  meat,  and  cover  it 
close,  simmer  it  gently  until  the  tyre  is  dried  up  ;  then 
pour  over  it  a  little  ghee,  and  let  it  stand  near  the  fire 
for  an  hour. 


ZAREBRIAN    KHOORASANEE. 


2  Seers. 
1      „ 


Meat,     -    -    -    . 
Bice,  -    -    -    - 
Tyre,    -    - 
Ghee,  -    - 
Onions,- 
Cloves,  ^ 

Black  pepper,  J 
Cinnamon,      -    -  4      „ 

Cammin  seeds,    -  I  Masha. 
Salt,  ....     4  Tolahs. 


Take  and  divide  the  meat  as  usual, 
and  soak  it  for  an  hour  with  the 
juice  of  the  green .  ginger,  some  fried 
onions  and  some  pounded  salt;  grind 
some  cardamons,  cloves  and  saffron 
and  add  to  it,  with  a  little  coriander 
seeds,  water  and  tyre;  mix  the  whole 
together  and  rub  into  the  meat;  put 
it  into  a  saucepan ;  season  with  the 
curry  stuff,  and  pour  over  it  the  re- 
maining ghee ;  wash  the  rice  in  two  or  three  waters,  and 
boil  it  till  half  cooked ;  put  half  of  the  rice  over  the  meat 
with  a  little  water  and  the  remaining  half  of  the  rice  with 
some  ghee  and  place  a  biscuit  in  the  middle  of  the  rice ; 
colour  a  little  rice  with  saffron  and  place  this  also  under 
the  rice  on  one  side;  cover  close  the  saucepan,  and  boil 
till  the  water  is  dried  up  on  a  slow  fire ;  then  remove  it 
and  let  it  remain  by  the  side  for  half  an  hour  longer,  when 
it  will  be  fit  for  use. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKEEY.  387 

ZAREBfilAN  MAHEE. 

Take    and    cut   the    fish    in    large 
Rfa,  \W'/\  ^""       pieces ;   clean    and   wash    it    well    in 

2^T*» \  »  three    or  four    waters   and   rub    over 

Ghee,  -  -   -   -  .1    .  them   the  gingly  oil  and  let   it  stand 

Roosted  Chenaah  -  f  j*      i    ii.         ^     g  j 

Cbves,       >each  2  Ma^       for  half  an  hour ;   then   wash   it  again 
01^0^-   -"!^i    n        "^'^^    ^*'^''   ^^^     ^^«  chennah    and 

S^Vg-;.'.  2ToL.     ^'^^'^     ^^^  ^'^^     ^""^    ^^"   ^^«^   ^^i 
Coriander  seeds,  -    2    „        wash   it  again  and  soak  it   in   half  of 

Cammin  seeds,  -    -    IMasha.        i  i.  i 

Anise,  -  -   -   -    )  Toiah.      the  tvrc  for  an  hour  :    grind  some  car- 

Salt, 4Ma8has.       ,         "^  ,      ,  j         -       -^  xi. 

Gingly  ou,  -  -  -  sToiahs.  damons  and  cloves  ~  and  mix  it  with 
a  little  pounded  salt  and  some  juice 
of  the  green  ginger  and  some  fried  onions ;  mix  these 
together  and  rub  well  into  the  fish  and  let  it  remain  for 
half  an  hour  ;  then  rub  it  with  a  mixture  of  tyre  and  saf- 
fron and  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  the  curry  stuff  ;  par- 
boil  the  rice  in  plain  water  and  put  it  over  the  meat  and 
pour  over  it  the  ghee  and  place  in  the  middle  of  the  rice 
a  biscuit  and  a  little  rice  coloured  with  saffron;  cover 
close  the  saucepan,  and  place  some  charcoal  fire  upon 
the  cover,  and  boil  it  on  a  slow  fire  till  you  hear  the  sound 
of  the  ghee;  then  take  off  the  fire  from  the  top,  and  let 
it  simmer  near  the  fire  for    half  an    hour. 

ZAREBRTAN  MAHEE  BAYKHAR. 


Fish,    - 
Rie^ 


-    2  Seen. 
-  1 


Coane  tyre, .  i      „ 

Onions,      -    -  |       „ 

Chennah  floor,  j       „ 

Gingly  oil,    -  2  Tolahs. 

Cinnajnon,  -  4  Maahas. 

^^•^'^'*"®"*»^ea2 
CloTea,        S  " 

Green  gin-  i 

ger,         S-ea.2  Tolahs. 
Coriander,  V 
Unldie,       -) 
Cominin     >ea.l    Masha. 

seeds,        j 
Anise,    ...  1  Tolah. 
Ghee,  .    -    -    x  Seer. 
Salt,     ...    4  ToUhs. 


Cut  the  fish  in  large  slices;  clean 
and  wash  it  well  three  or  four  times 
in  water  and  soak  it  in  the  gingly 
oil  for  half  an  hour;  then  wash  it 
again  with  water;  rub  it  over  with 
the  chennah  flour,  and  wash  it  again ; 
then  rub  it  with  some  more  flour 
and  wash  it  again;  bruise  some  le- 
mon leaves  and  put  into  a  basin  of 
water  and  rub  the  slices  of  fish  with 
it;  tie  the  slices  of  fish  in   a  cloth 


Digitized  by 


Google 


388  INDIAN   OOMSBTIC    SCONOMT 

and  boil  in  water  until  nearly  done ;  then  take  them 
oat  and  remove  the  bones  if  necessary;  mix  up  half  the 
carry  stuff  and  saffron,  after  it  has  been  ground  *with  a 
couple  of  egg9»  and  spread  it  over  the  fish  as  for  a  cutlety 
and  fry  it;  put  a  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  spread  into  it 
some  bamboo  sticks  and  place  the  cutlets  upon  them  and 
add  the  curry  stuff;  parboil  the  rice  in  plain  water  and 
put  it  on  the  cutlet  and  pour  over  it  a  little  ghee ;  fhuse 
in  the  centre  a  biscuit  and  a  little  rice  coloured  with 
saffron^  and  cover  close  the  saucepan ;  put  some  charcoal 
fire  upon  the  cover^  and  boil  it  on  a  gentle  fire  till  yon 
hear  the  sound  of  the  ghee  bubbling;  then  remove  the 
fire  from  the  top,   and  let  it  simmer  for  half  an  hour. 


ZAREBRIAN  MAHEE  NOORMAHLEE. 

Scale   and  wash  the  fish  well  and 
Kice*  -' .  /    1     „  '        cut    it  in  large    pieces  and    wash  it 

CoSetyri^.'  t        I  ^ff^^^  '    ^^^^    'ub    it    OVCr    with   giuglj 

oSLf*^'.'.}      :  oil 5   set  aside   for   half  an  hour,  and 

cSISXS;.'  1  T*       ^^'^  '^'^  ^^^^  ^°d    grind    the  anise 

CiXnonL,  j^^   ^^       it  again  in   water  ;   then  rub   it  with 
Cinnamoii,    -   2      „  basuu ;   mix    the     tyre  with   the  fish 

Salt,  '-  .*-"  3  ToUh8.  and  let  it  stand  for  half  an  hour, 
washing  it  again;  bruise  some  oni- 
ons and  green  ginger ;  put  it  into  a  basin  and  mix  into 
it  a  part  of  the  curry  stuff  and  a  little  salt  and  rub  over 
the  fish  and  fry  in  the  ghee;  then  add  a  little  tyre,  and 
boil  it  till  it  is  dried  up;  then  take  it  from  the  fire;  take 
the  slices  of  fish  out  of  the  pan,  and  rub  them  over  with 
some  tyre  and  saffron;  spread  some  bamboo  sticks  into 
a  saucepan  and  place  the  fish  upon  them  and  pour  over 
it  the  gravy  and  the  remaining  curry  stuff;  parboil  the 
rice  in  plain  water  and  put  it  over  the  fish,  with  a  little 
of  the  rice  water;  colour  a  little  rice  with  saffron  and  place 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  389 

it  on  the  rice  and  pour  over  some  ghee;  make  a  biscuit 
to  put  in  the  centre  of  the  rice;  cover  the  saucepan  close 
(and  boil  it  till  the  whole  is  done) ;  fix  on  the  cover  tight^ 
and  put  some  charcoal  fire  on  it  for  a  time;  then  take 
off  the  fire  from  the  top,  and  let  it  simmer  for  a  few 
minutes,   when  it  will   be   fit  for   use. 


ZABEBRIAN   KIIASAH. 

Mnt,     ...    -  a    Seers.  ^^^    ®^®   ^®^^    ^^  ™®^*    ^"^    ^^^    ^^ 

5**»  •   "  "  •   1     »        in    larffe  slices    and   score  it   with   a 

Coanetyre,     -    -  J       »  ° 

Ghee,  -  -  -  -  I     ^  knife;  take    one  tolah    of  the  green 

Blanched  al^  "            "  ginger  bruiscd,  with  half  of  the  curry 

G^  pngir/  /  I  T6llhfl.  stuff  pouiided,  and   add   the  tyre,  salt 

^iJJU^J^  I  ea.  2  Mashas.  and  somc  fried  onions ;  rub  the  meat 

Blade  pep.  ")  over  with  these  ingredients  and  keep 

per,  >ea.   1  Masha.  ,  .      . 

cloTei,       )  it   for  an   hour;   then   put  it  into   a 

Coriander  seeds,  -  1  Tolah.  j     jj   j.      •*.    ai.  •    •„ 

Huidie,    -  -  -    1  Masha.     sauccpau  and  add  to  it  the  remaining 

^^ *  '^^^^'    curry   stuff    and  some    of  the  ghee ; 

keep  it  on  one  side^  cut  the  remaining  meat  as  usual,  and 
put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  proper  quantity  of  water, 
some  sh'ced  onions,  green  ginger,  fine  salt,  pounded,  and 
coriander  seeds  with  a  little  ghee ;  mix  these  together  and 
boil  till  the  meat  separates  freely  from  the  bones,  and  strain 
the  gravy  through  a  coarse  cloth  into  a  saucepan;  mix 
into  it  a  little  tyre  and  the  almonds,  well  pounded ;  then 
boghar  it  three  times  in  ghee  with  cloves,  and  boil  it  till 
it  is  reduced  to  one  half  the  quantity ;  parboil  the  rice  in 
plain  water  and  mix  it  with  the  gravy,  and  boil  till  the 
gravy  is  nearly  dried  up ;  then  put  it  over  the  meat  with 
some  rice,  coloured  with  saffron,  and  pour  over  the  whole 
a  little  ghee;  let  it  simmer  near  the  fire  for  an  hour, 
when   it  will  be  ready  for  use. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


39i) 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC    ECaNOtfY 

KUBAB. 


Meat,   -    -    -    -  1  Sccr. 
Tyre  and  ghee,     \     „ 
Eggs,    -    -    No.  2 
Green  giager,    -    2  Tolahs, 

Salt,  -) 

Coriander  >  each  3  Toklu. 

seeds,    j 
Cinnamon,    -    -    4  Mashos. 
Pothee-Greeua,       1  Tolah. 


KUBAB  DARAHEE. 

Cut  the  meat  into  small  sqaares ; 
season  it  with  the  juice  of  the  green 
ginger,  tyre  and  salt,  and  give  it  a 
boghar  in  ghee,  with  some  fried  oni- 
ons; roast  the  coriander  seeds,  grind 
and  add  it  to  the  meat,  with  the  salt 
and  a  small  quantity  of  water;  boil 
it  gently  until  it  is  nearly  dried  up ; 
then  mix  in  half  of  the  curry  musalah,  well  ground ;  shake 
it  and  let  it  stand  over  the  fire  for  a  short  time,  when  take 
out  the  meat,  set  it  on  one  side,  and  put  in  the  potbee ; 
boil  the  eggs  hard  and  cut  them  into  thin  round  slices ; — 
likewise  some  onions,  and  colour  them  red  in  the  juice  of 
the  pothee;  sprinkle  the  meat  with  the  saffron  ground  to 
a  powder,  and  stick  the  slices  through  the  middle  on  a 
wire  or  wooden  skewer,  first  the  meat  and  then  onion  and 
egg,  and  so  continue  filing  until  all  are  skewered  ;  rub 
the  remainder  of  the  curry  stuff  over  them,  and  fry  in  ghee ; 
when  add  a  little  water  to  finish  the  cooking,  and  serve 
them   up. 


KUBAB  THICKAII  MAHEE. 


Fish,  -    -    -    -  1    Seer. 
Ghee  and  i  ea.      ^      ,,  or 

onions,  i  2  Chittacks. 

Tyre,     -    -    -    i  Seer. 

-    1  Masha. 

(ea.1  Tolahs. 
Green  ginger,) 
Gingly  oil,    -    -  2  Tolah. 
Bhick  pepper,  -    4  Mashas. 
Cummin  seeds,    -  4       „ 
Some    Bftsan     (or    Chennah 
Flour)  and  Salt. 


Cloves, 

Coriander, 

Anise, 


Cut  the  fish  into  thin  slices  the 
shape  of  dice ;  rub  it  with  the  ginglj 
oil  and  wash  it  in  water;  then  rub 
it  over  with  the  chennah  fiour;  let 
it  remain  a  short  time  and  wash  it 
off;  sprinkle  over  the  meat  some  salt 
and  the  juice  of  the  green  ginger; 
then  rub  it  over  with  tyre  and  curry 
stuff;  cut  some  onions  the  same  as 
the   fish,  and  stick  the  pieces  one   by 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  391 

one»  on  a  wire  skewer  made  for  the  purpose  ;  after  all  are 
filed,  roast  them  on  a  charcoal  fire,  and  while  roasting, 
mix  some  water,  tyre  and  ghee,  and  baste  them  till  they 
are  done;  then  pour  over  them  some  fresh  ghee,  and  they 
are  ready. 

KOOFTHA  MAHEE  SHAMY. 

Rub  the  fish  with  gingly  oil ;  then 
Ghee,  -  -  -  i  „  *  wash  it  in  water  and  rub  it  with 
GroondgTwsnj     t^'J^j^    chenuah  flour;    soak   the  fish  in    tyre 


I     3 
nah  flour,    J    '     '»         tolahs   Weight ;    cut  the  remaining   fish 


khuSS^im"*  *     -  ^^^  ^^^  hours    and     afterwards    wash 

gioimd. 
Roasted  Che 

nah  flour, 
Aoiae  seed,    -    -  4    „  .  n      .  ,       .        . 

Chennaii  flour,  -  8  „  luto  small  picces,  and  give  it  a  boghar 
Cm^om,  I  ®*^^  ^  ^MhR,  in  ghee,  with  some  fried  onions  and 
Biack^^r,"."  I  ;;  *^he  ground  coriander  and  salt;  mix 
Greeo^j^ger,  -  I  ToUiia.  ^j^^^  together ;  when  it  is  done,  take 
Gingly oii  -  -  2-  ",  the  fish  out  and  chop  it  up  with  a 
s^eTyie."  "  ^  "  knife;  grind  the  green  dhal,  khua- 
khus  flour,  and  the  roasted  chennah 
flour  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  mix  with  the  five  to- 
lahs' weight  of  uncooked  fish,  the  anise  flour  and  tyre ; 
slice  the  green  ginger  and  onions  and  add  the  other  curry 
stuff;  mix  the  whole  together  well  with  the  liand,  and 
form  into  balls ; — fry  them  with  one-fourth  seer  of  ghee ; 
if  you  wish  to  fry  it  as  a  kooftha  in  a  mahee  tayah,*^  do 
not  mix  the  anise  flour,  nor  chop  the  meat,  so  small ;  but 
if  to  serve  as  a  chasneedar,  put  the  koofthas  in  a  pan, 
with  some  sugar  made  into  a  syrup,  and  fry  till  all  the 
syrup  is   dried  up. 

KUBAB  TIIULAVEE. 

Gut  the  meat  into   thick  slices,    and 
Meat,  -   -  .   -   1  Seer,       season   with    ffrceu    ffincer    juice    and 

Ghee,  and  (each    i     ,   or      .  .  \     u         i       n 

Tjre,     5    4  c&ttacks.      tyre ;   give  a  boghar    to    the    same  lu 

*  A  thin  iron  or  brass  pan  used 'for  frying. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


S92 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 


Hyda  and   )  each  i  Seer  or  2 

Oaions,    {      Chittacks. 
Em,  -    •    No.  2. 
Cloves  and     j       j  ^g^^ 
Cardamons,    j  «»■  *  J«i»"»- 
Cinnamon,     •    •  2      „ 

Some   Salt   and    black    pep- 
per. 


ghee,  with  some  fried  onions ;  shake 
all  well  together;  after  the  tjre  is 
add    the    coriander   seeds 


dried 


up, 


ground  and  roasted,  with  a  littk 
water,  and  let  it  boil  till  cooked ; 
take  the  slices  of  mutton  from  the 
saucepan  and  strain  the  gravy;  mix  the  myda,  the  white 
of  the  eggs,  the  pounded  curry  stuff  and  salt  together 
with  the  hand ;  rub  this  over  .the  meat  and  fry  it  in  ghee. 
If  you  wish  to  make  it  as  chasneedar,  add  one-fourth  aeer 
of  lemon  juice  and  one-fourth  seer  sugar  ;  make  this  into 
syrup,  and  when  you  have  fried  the  kubab  thulavee  in 
the  ghee,  put  in  the  syrup  and  boil  until  all  the  gravy 
has   evaporated. 


KOOFTHAY  KUBAB  SHANEY. 


Meat,   ....  1  Seer. 
Ghee,      -    -    - 
Onions,      -    > 
Tyre.       -    -    -      _ 
Egg,     -    -    No.  1 

^n"SrrSL',"l2Tolah. 

C«d«non.,j^,,M^,^ 

Cinnamon,     *    -2'    „ 
Green  jringer,) 
Coriander,      ^ea.  1  Tolah. 
Anise  flour,     j 
Snet,     ...    .2     „ 
Black  pepper,  .     4  Mashas. 
Salt,     ....  2  Tolahs. 


Mince  the  meat  and  boghar  in 
ghee  with  some  fried  onions;  mix 
with  it  some  of  the  salt  and  ground 
coriander  seeds  with  a  little  water, 
shaking  the  pan  over  the  fire  till  the 
water  is  dried  up ;  take  the  onions^ 
green  ginger,  suet,  anise  and  chennah 
flour;  mix  them  together  with  the 
meat  and  pound  the  whole  in  a  mor- 
tar ;   then   add  the  ground  curry  stuff 


with  tyre  and  white  of  the  egg  ;  mix 
all  well  together  with  the  pounded  meat;  form  it  into 
moderate  sized  cakes  or  balls,  and  fry  them  in  the  remain- 
ing ghee. 


THICKAH  KUBAB. 


is?,  : 

Ghee, 
Onions, 


No.  1 

.    -  1  Sccr. 


Cut  the  meat  in  thick  slices;  chop 
them  well  with  the  back  of  a  knife, 
and  rub  them  over    with   some  salt, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOK££T» 


S93 


Siiiick  pep-^' 

ClOTM,  {"*• 

CardamonsiJ 
Cinnamon,  - 
Grwn  gin-*^ 

ComSder,  f  •** 

seeds,    J 
S«h,    ...    . 


iSeer. 
IMasha. 
2    Mashaf. 
1  Tolah. 


the  juice  of  green  ginger,  and  onions ; 
grind  some  curry  stufif,  and  add  with 
it  a  little  ghee  and  tyre;  mix  these 
together  well  and  rub  over  the  meat ; 
string  the  meat  on  a  wire,  and  roast 
over  a  charcoal  fire ;  mix  some  ghee 
and  tyre  and  baste  it.  while  roasting. 


KUBAB  KOOFLEE.     (Another  way.) 

Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces ;  slice  some  onions  and 
unripe  mangoes,  and  fry  them  together  in  ghee ;  then  mix 
some  curry  stuff  with  them,  and  rub  over  the  rolls  of  meat 
^  separately ;  then  string  the  slices  on  a  skewer  cross-ways 
and  bind  the  whole  with  a  string  tight  together  and  roast 
over  a  charcoal  fire  ;  while  roasting,  take  a  little  flour  and 
pounded  almonds  and  mix  in  the  tyre  and  give  it  a  boghar 
with  some  cloves  in  ghee ;  apply  this  to  the  meat  while 
roasting. 


Some  esn. 
Meat,    .    . 

GUiee,  -    • 
Onions,  -    < 


Blanched 

Almonds, 
Black  pepper, 
doves, 
Gardamons, 
Cinnamon,  .  -  2 
Green  ffinger,  i  , 
Coriander,  )  **•  * 
Some  Salt. 


1' 


KUBAB  BYHEZAH. 

Make  a  hole  in  the  eggs,  take  out 
1  Seer.  ^^^  inside  and  keep  in  a  basin ;  slice 
i  n  the  green  ginger    and    onions,  grind 

I  I  the  curry  stuff,  beat  the  eggs  well  and 

mix  all  together ;  fill  the  shells  with 
the  mixture,  and  close  the  holes  up 
with  paste ;  then  boil  them  in  water ; 
Tolah.  '^^^^  ^hey  are  done,  take  them  from 
the  saucepan,  and  remove  the  shells; 
prick  them  all  over  with  a  fork  or  pin 
and  string  them  on  a  wire  skewer.  Cut  the  meat  in  slices 
and  boil  with  water  as  *'  Hegney ;"  strain  the  gravy  in  a 
sancepan  ;  add  some  ground  almonds,  tyre,  and  mytha  ;  mix 
them  together,  and  give  a  boghar  to  it  in  ghee,  with  some 
doves  ;  roast  the  eggs  over  a  charcoal  fire  and  baste  them 
with  the  gravy  till  they     are  properly  done. 

B  ^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


394 


IKOUN  SOlTESnC   ECONOlfT 


MTHEE  KUBAB. 


1    Se«r. 


-.1 

[each    i 


in  I 


2       . 
S  Tolahs. 


ea.    2 


Clean  the  fish  well,^and  cut  off  the 
heads  ;  prick  them  all  over  with  a 
fork  and  rub  over  ^thcm  the  gingly 
oil  and  keep  them  for  two  hours  ;  af- 
terwards wash  them  in  water ;  now 
rub  over  the  anise  with  the  cummin 
seeds  ground  and  wash  them  again  ; 
then  rub  them  with  chennah  flour^ 
and  after  a  little  time,  wash  it  off; 
soak  the  fish  in  tyre  for  two  hours  ; 
take  them  out  'and  'dry  '^them  ;  then 
rub  a  little  ground  ginger,  salt,  oni- 
ons,  and  some  curry  stuff  pounded 
over  them  and  let  them  rest  for  a  short  time  ;  mince  the 
meat  well,  and  give  a  boghar  to  it  in  ghee,  with  some  fried 
onions  ;  add  some  salt  and  coriander  seeds,  with  a  little 
water  and  fry  it  well ;  take  some  onions  and  fry  in  ghee  ; 
cut  the  green  ginger  thin  ;  clean  the  raisins  well ;  take  a 
little  ground  curry  stuff  and  some  tyre ;  mix  all  these 
well  together  with  the  meat,  and  boghar  the  whole  in  ghee  ; 
stuff  the  fish  with  this  mince  and  sew  them  up  ;  rub  them 
over  with  ground  safEron ;  put  them  on  a  skewer  or  small 
spit  and  roast  over  a  charcoal  fire  ;  when  half  done,  mix 
some  tyje  and  ghee,  and  baste  the  fish  with  it  until  pro- 
perly roasted. 


Fish,  - 
Ghee,    - 

Oniom, 
ChenniJi 

floor, 
Rainns 
Cloves, 
CardamoDs,  / 
Saffron,        >  ea.    1  Mashft. 
Black  pep-  I 
per,        -/ 
Cinnamon,    • 
Green  iringer, 
Coriaaaer,    - 
Cummin 

seeds, 
Anise, 

Gingly  Oil,   ) 
Salt,  j 


KUBAB  KHANZ. 


Goose, 
Meat,  .    - 
Blanched 
Almonds 

}  each  I 
Green  gin-  " 

fcer. 
Tyre,     -    .    - 
Coriander  seeds, 
Onions,    -     - 
Chennah  floor, 


1 

i    Seer. 


Clean  the  goose  and  wash  it  in  wa- 
ter two  or  three  tiines ;  then  dip  it 
in  hot  water  and  prick  it  all  over 
with  a  fork  ;  grind  some  anise  and  co* 
riander  seeds  ;  mix  them  together  in 
a  sufficiency  of  water ;  strain  it  into 
a  saucepan  and  soak  the  goose  in  it 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKEBT.  395 

cioye§,         I  ea,  2     Ma-    for  two  houTs :  afterwards  wash  it  and 

Caraamoni,      J       shat.  ,  ' 

Black  peppe^  -In  Fub  it  well    with    one-fouTth   seer   of 

▼Md,  *"  }  ^  '^^^  ghee,  and  wash  it  again  in  water  j 
c^wnon  -  -  4  *  grind  somc  sandalwood  and  mix  this 
in  the  water  and  soak  the  goose  in 
it  for  two  hours  and  wash  it  again  in  water  ;  grind  one- 
fourth  seer  onion,  ginger  and  salt,  and  rub  over  the  goose 
and  lay  it  on  one  side ;  mince  the  meat  and  give  a  boghar 
in  ghee  with  some  fried  onions  and  add  in  it  some  ground 
coriander  seeds,  water,  and  salt ;  mix  them  together  and 
shake  it  well  while  frying,  and  fry  the  other  one-fourth 
seer  of  onions  and  grind  the  curry  stuff  and  mix  these  to- 
gether ;  add  the  raisins  after  being  stoned  and  cleaned ; 
mix  all  these  with  the  above  meat  and  stuff  into  the  goose ; 
sew  it  up  with  a  string  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  water,  and  boil  it  gently  (if  it  is  a 
young  goose,  boiling  is  not  necessary);  when  it  is  half 
boiled,  take  it  out  of  the  saucepan  and  put  it  on  a  spit 
over  a  charcoal  fire ;  take  some  of  the  gravy  in  which  the 
goose  was  boiled,  and  grind  some  roasted  almonds  and  a  little 
rice  in  the  same  gravy  and  add  a  little  tyre,  curry  stuff, 
and  ghee  ;  mix  these  well  together  and  baste  it  with  the 
same  till  it  is  properly  roasted ;  after  it  is  done,  rub  over 
it   a  little  good   ghee   and  take   it  from   the  fire. 

MTHE  KUBAB  QOOSTHIE. 

Cat  the  meat  in  slices  ;  shape  them 
gS^  "-'."-  I  ^'*  like  fish,  and  season  with  curry  stuff 
ChiSfl^ur;  J  :  .  and  salt;  boil  them  in  ghee  with  a 
gnnamon,  -  2  Mashaa.  little  Water  iu  the  sauccpau  for  about 
CwdamoM,  j  **•  ^    »  ten  minutes  :  then  take  them  out  of 

Black  pepper,       *      »  ,i  u  *i.  * 

Green     ^  the  sauccpau ;  rub  over    the  meat  a 

Ga^^'j***^  little    chennah  flour,  garlic,   and  cur- 

cwlderscad^  1    „  rystuffmixcd  together,   and  fry  them 

in  ghee  ;  have  ready  some  water  mix- 
ed with  garlicj  and  after  the  slices   of  meat  arc  fried,  dip 


Digitized  by 


Google 


S96 


INDIAN  DOyESnC   ICONOUT 


each  slice  in  the  garlic  sauce  and  let  it  remain  for  abooi 
one  hour  to  cool ;  separate  all  the  crusts  from  the  meal, 
when  it  will  taste  like  fish. 

KUBAB  MYHEE. 


Wash  the  fish  well,  and  cover   it    ot 
a  sufficient  thickness  with  some   com- 
mon paste  and  roast  it  in  hot  wood 
aJ^hes,  until  the  paste  is  of  a  brown 
colour  ;   then  take  the  fish  out  of  the 
paste  and  remove  all  the  bones  ;   take 
one-fourth  seer   of  raw  chennah  flour 
and  the  fish  ;   mix  them  well  together 
with  the  ground  curry  st^ifF,  the  egg, 
roasted   chennah  flour^  anise   floor  and 
tyre,  and  form  it  into  the    shape    of 
small  fish ;  put  some  water  in  a  Sauce- 
pan and  spread  some  grass  over  the  water   and  place   the 
fish,  one  by  one,  on  ,the  grass   and  cover  close  the  sauce- 
pan and  boil  it  till  the  fish  are  firm  enough  to  fry  in  ghee.^ 
If  you  wish  to  make  a  chasneedar,  take  half  a  seer  of   su- 
gar and  one-fourth  seer   lemon  juice,   mix  these  and  make 
syrup  ;  after  the  fish  is  fried,  dip  them  in   syrup  ;  when  the 
syrup    is  dried,   put    some  ground  saffron  over  them. 


lish,    -    -    -    -    1  Seer. 
Ohee,  -    -    -    -     4      „ 
Onions,    -     -    -  i      ti 
Chennah  flour,  -in 
Ere.  -  No.  1 

Cinnamon,    -    -   2Mashaa. 
Cloves,  "I 

Cardamons,      >ea.l     „ 
Black  pepper,  J 
Saffron,    -    -    -    1      „ 
Eoasted  '\ 

Oreen  pnger,J 
Tjre,        .    .         8      « 
Salt,    -       -     -     2      „ 
Eoasted  I     o 

Chennah,     \  ** 


THOOEAHEE  KUBAB. 


Thoonhee, 
Meat,    .    • 
Tyre,    -    - 
Ohee,    •    - 
Onions,    - 
Cinnamon, 
Cloves, 
Cardamons, 
Black  pcppeiTj. 


ISeer. 


u 


Cut  off  the  tops  ;  divide  them  down 
the  middle  and  take  out  all  the  in- 
side and  ruh  them  with  salt ;  mince 
the  meat,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  and 
add  some  curry  stuff  and  give  a  bo- 
ghar  to  the   same  in  the  ghee  with 


*  Or  steam  the  fish, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


JLND  COOKIBT. 


897 


Coriander  seeds,  1  Tolah.  !•  •    i        •  •..    , 

Green  ginger,  -  I  «  somc  fned  omons  ;  pour  m  a  little  wa- 

stuff  this  mince  meat  into  the  thoo- 
rahee  and  tie  them  with  a  string;  file  them  on  a  skewer; 
roast  over  a  charcoal  fire;  when  they  are  becoming  brown, 
have  ready  some  curry  stuff,  tyre,  and  ghee  mixed  together, 
and  rub  over  them  till  they  are  sufficiently  done;  then 
spimkle  them  with  plain  ghee  and  remove  from  the  spit. 
The  brinjai  and  cuddoo  may  be  dressed  in  the  same  manner. 


KUBAB    FOWL    OR    MEAT. 


Fowl. 

Coriander  seeds,  1  Chittack. 

Green  ginger,      2       „ 


Clean  the    fowl    and   prick   it  well 

over  with  a   fork  ;  roast    the  corian- 

cler  seed  and  grind   it  with  the  gin- 

Bi^  pepper.     1     «  g^j.^  cardamous,  cloves,   black   pepper, 

Cieaii.     je«^h»Cluttacks.      ^nd  salt :    mb    this     into    thp  fowl  •    frv 


Onions,*  - 
Ghee,    - 
Turmeric, 
SiJt,    -     . 


and  salt;   rub    this    into  the  fowl;  fry 
ichittack.     the  onious,  sliced,  with  the  turmeric 

6  Mashas. 

2      .         pounded,  in  ghee ;  then  add  the  cream 


and  tyre ;  put  the  fowl  to  roast  and 
baste  it  while  dressing  with  the  cream  mixture,  to  which 
may  be  added  some  sliced  almonds,  with  a  few  kishmises  or 
currants.  A  shoulder  of  mutton  may  be  dressed  in  the 
Same  way. 


KHAGINAH. 

Beat  the  eggs  well  up  ;  strain  off 
the  water  from  the  duhee  and  mix 
the  curd  together  with  all  the  other 
articles  previously  ground  very  fine, 
(except  the  ghee)  which  is  to  be  put 
on  the  fire,  and  when  properly  hot, 
pour  in  the  prepared  mixture  of  eggs, 
&c.,   which  when  done    on  one  side, 

must  be  turned   on  the  other  ;  then     divide    it  in    squares 

and  serve   it. 


Eto    -  -  -   2 

Gram' Hoot  l**-^,       ^^'^ 

parched,   J     ^^^*' 
Salt,  ....     2  Tolaha. 
Pepper,      -    .        4  Mashas. 
Coriander  aeede,     2      „ 
CloTe«,         \  ^     - 
Cardamons,  J®*-    *     »» 
Onions,     -    .    -    1  Chittack 
Tyre,     -    -    .        2     „ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


S9S 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMT* 


SHANAH    KUBAB. 


Take  a  shoulder  of  mutton  with  its 
bone  weighing  about  one  seer  ;  prick 
it  well  with  a  fork  and  rub  it  over 
with  the  green  ginger  ground^  and 
some  salt;  fry  the  onions  in  ghee 
and  give  a  boghar  to  the  meat ;  roast 
and  grind  the  coriander  seeds  and  add 
them  with  some  water ;  shake  it  well 
over  the  fire  and  when  the  meat  is  half  done^  put  in  the 
curry  stuff,  and  keep  it  on  the  fire  a  little  longer;  then 
remove  the  meat^  put  it  on  a  spit  and  finish  by  roasting, 
basting  it  all  the  time  with  tyre  and  some  of  the  gravy 
in  which  it  was  boiled ;  when  done,  pour  over  it  a  little 
good  ghee,  and  take  it  from  the  spit. 


A  shoulder  of  mutton. 

Chuons,    ...  i     w 
Cloves,            ■) 

Cardamoni,      Vea.  IMasha. 
Black  pepper,  } 

Cinnamon,      -    -  2      „ 

Coriander  seed,  -  1  Tolah. 

Green  ginger,  -    -  2      „ 

Salt.  .  ^. .  -  li  : 


KUBAB    KHUTAEE. 


Mutton,  -  • 
Cream,  "J 
Blanched  >ea. 
Almonds, } 
Ghee,  -  -  • 
Bnttermilk,  - 
Green 

jpger. 
Onions, 


Tpe,    ' 
Cloves, 


•}■ 


1  Seer. 
4Chittaeks. 

2Chittacks. 

2  » 


Clear  the  meat  well  of  bones  and 
vein;  mince  it  very  finely,  and  mix 
it  with  the  ginger  and  onions  (duly 
bruised)  and  the  other  ingredients, 
together  with  the  saffron  made  into 
powder ;  then  take  the  duhee,  put  it 
in  a  towel  and  squeeze  out  the  water ; 
after  which,  mix  in  it  the  cream  and 
the  almonds,  and  put  the  whole  into 
the  minced  meat,  with  two  chittacks 
of  ghee ;  mix  these  well  together  and 
make  into  small  balls;  this  being 
done,  take  the  remainder  of  the  ghee  and  set  it  on  the 
fire;  when  it  is  quite  hot,  put  in  ^ the  balls  and  keep  them 
frying  until  they  become  properly  brown;  then  take  the 
vessel  down  and  add  the  lemon  juicet 


Cardamons  Vea.  1  Masha. 

small,      i 
Saffron  and>  ^   ^ 


Pepper, 
Coriander  seed, 
Juioe  of  limes. 
Salt,    .    .    . 


1  Chittack. 

2  ToUhs. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKSRT. 


399 


KUBAB  PUESUND. 


Place  the  tyre  in  a  towel  that  the 
water  may  ooze  out;  cut  the  mutton 
into  small  pieces  and  apply  to  it  the 
jnice  of  fthe  green  ginger,  pounded 
salt,  onions,  and  the  coriander  after 
being  roasted  and  well  ground  to- 
gether with '  the  lime  juice  and  saf- 
fron; then  mix  the  cream  with  the 
almonds  (peeled  and  bruised)  into 
the  tyre,  which,  together  with  the 
ghee,  apply  well  to  the  pieces  of  the  mutton,  lastly  cover 
them  with  the  cheese  and  tie  together  with  a  string; 
place  these  on  a  small  spit  or  skewer  and  roast  over  a  slow 
charcoal  fire  uptil  they  assume  a  perfect  brown  colour, 
when  they  are   ready  for  the  table. 


Mutton,    .    .    1    Seer. 
Green  ginger,     ^      „ 
Tyre,   -    -    -    i      » 

Coriimaer') 

•eeda,    Vet.  1      » 
Salt,         } 
Pepper,     -    -    *      » 
Ghee,       ^ 
Cream,      Vea.  4      „ 
Almonds,  J 
Juice  of  limef,    4     „ 


Uatton,       -    -  1  Seer. 
Gmg««id|^lChittaek. 

Ghee,    -    -   -    2     „ 
Tyw.-    -    -    -*      » 
Coriander,  •    •    1      „ 
Pepper,    -    -    -SMaahas. 
si,    '.    -    .     1  Mah. 


PLAIN  KUBAB. 

Apply  these  ingredients  to  the  mut- 
ton cut  in  pieces  in  the  same  man- 
ner and  strung  on  a  skewer  as  in  the 
foregoing,  and  fry  them  on  a  slow 
charcoal  fire  with  ghee. 


MOORUG  KUBAB. 


-    -    -  4  Seer« 

'    '   '\  Seer. 

I  "  t     » 


Meat,    . 
Powl,- 
Ghee,    - 
Oniona, 

CWea,  ') 

Black  pepper,  >ea.l  Uaaha. 

Cardamons,    J 

Cinnamon,    -        d  Mashaa. 
Salt,  -    ...    1|  Tolahi. 

add  some  curry  stuff 


Mince  the  meat  weU  and  fry  some 
onions  in  ghee  and  mix  with  the  meat ; 
give  a  boghar  to  it  in  ghee,  and  put 
in  it  a  little  salt,  water  and  some 
ground  coriander  seeds;  mix  these  to- 
gether and  simmer  till  the  water  is 
dried  up;  dean  the  fowl  and  wash 
it  well;  rub  it  all  over  with  a  little 
juice  of  onions  and  green  ginger; 
to  the    minced  meat  and  stuff  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


400  INDIAN  BOHBSTIC  ECONOUT. 

fowl  with  it  and  close  it  up ;  spit  the  fowl  and  rub  over 
it  a  part  of  the  ground  curry  stuflf  mixed  with  tyre ;  mix 
the  remaining  curry  stuff  with  some  tyre,  ghee,  and  a  little 
water,  with  which  continue  to  baste  the  fowl  till  well  roast- 
ed; then  pour  over  it  a  little  ghee  and  remove  it  from  the 
fire. 

KHEEMAH  KUBAB. 

Mince  the  meat  and  cut  the  green 
Ghi^-'  -'  -"  -'  I  ^'  gii^ger  and  onions  in  small  pieces ; 
^M,    -  -   -  I    „  grind  the  curry  stuff  with  a  little  ghee  ; 

Cardamont,  lea.  I  Masha.  mix  all  together  and  form  into  mo- 
Green  Smgwp,  j  1  T  lah  ^^^^^  size  balls ;  stick  them  on  a 
CmanSer.    '}*^^^°^  •       ^^    ^^^    f^^^^    ^jjj^   thrfcad ;    roast 

them  a  little  over  a  charcoal  fire  and 
take  them  off  the  wire ;  put  them  in  a  mahee  tavah  or  fry- 
ing pan,  with  some  ghee  and  water,  and  let  them  fry  till 
the    water  is   dried  up,  and  tlxey  are  ready. 


KOREKAH  K:UBAB. 

Take  a  fowl  or  a  fish;  clean   and 
A  Fowl,  or  a  Fish.  ^^]^  j^  nicelv :  mnd  some  salt  with 

Ghee,    -    .    -    -  1  Seer.  •  r  •  i         • 

Oiuona,  .  -   -  1    „         some  pieces  of  green  ginger  and  oni- 
cio^^    -  -  - 1    »         Q^g  j^^j J  J.^^3  Qygj  it  ^eU .   teep  it  on 

sSvon'^'^'*    lea,i  Hasha.     one  sidc ;  miucc  the  mutton  and  give 


Black  ieMerJ  ^  boghar  to  it  in  the  ghee  with  some 

•^*' leach  1  Tolah.      ^^^^  onious,  and    add  some    ground 

^^gerj  coriander  seeds  with  water  and   salt; 

Salt,  •    .    .    •  2      „             aVfoVo     fViom      «a11      fnorpfliPT      nTid      frv 

Cinnamoii,  -    •  5  Mashas. 


them  in  the  ghee;  afterwards  mix  in 
it  some  curry  powder  and  stuff  the  force-meat  into  the 
fowl  or  fish;  sew  it  up  with  thread  and  rub  over  it  some 
saffron  and  curry  stuff  with  a  little  cinnamon;  put  the 
fowl  or  fish  in  an  earthen  dish  and  pour  over  it  some  ghee 
and  close  the  top  with  a  plate,  or  cover  and  join  it  well 
with  some  common   (flour)  pastCi  and  bake  it  in  an  oven* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


A14D    COOKEET.  401 

KUBAB  HOOSSAINEU. 

Cut  the  meat  a  little  larger  than 
Heat,  ....  1  Seer.  almonds^  rub  the  pieces  over  with  some 
!>«////•  .|  r.  salt  and  the  juice  of  green  ginger 
Ciawum,*.'/ .iMalhaa,    and  tyre;  cut  some  onions    in  slices 

Black  pep-c***  "  p^t  them  on  one  side;  give  a  bo- 
G^figBger,>jj^  IT^^,^  ghar  to  the  meat  in  the  same  ghee; 
Salt,  .   !  .  .  .  li  when  the  meat  is  getting  dry,    add  a 

little  coriander  and  water  and  let  it 
simmer  gently  on  a  slow  fire  for  an  hour ;  after  the  meat 
is  boiled^  file  it  on  a  small  skewer  of  bamboo  or  silver 
wire,  one  slice  of  meat  first  and  a  slice  of  onions,  one  by 
one,  and  so  continue  to  file  them  on  as  many  wires  as 
you  wish;  sprinkle  over  them  some  ground  curry  stuflf 
and  fry  them  in  a  pan  with  ghee,  adding  a  little  water 
for  the  purpose  of  softening  the  meat;  when  done,  remove 
them  off  the  fire  and    serve. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


402 


INDIAN  DOMESnC  ICONOUT 


INGREDIENTS  FOB  CURRY  STUFF. 


Native  Name. 

English. 

BotanieaL 

Souf. 

Anise  seed. 

Pimpinella  Anisum. 

Seetul  checnee  gach. 

Allspice. 

Myrttts  Fimenta* 

Edachie. 

Cardamon. 

Elelharia  Cardamomam 

Laoong. 

Cloves. 

Eugenia  Caryophyllata. 

Jawatrie, 

Mace.  • 

Myristica  Moschata. 

JauphulL 

Nutmeg. 

Do            do. 

Kulmie  darchinie. 

Cinnamon. 

Laurus  Cinnamomum. 

Dhunnia  or  Kotimear 

.  Coriander. 

Coriandrum  Sativum. 

Zeera. 

Cummin  seed. 

Cuminum  Cyminum. 

Kali  mirchie. 

Black  pepper. 

Piper  Nigrum, 

Eai. 

Mustard  seed. 

Sinopis  Chinensis. 

Lai  mirchie. 

ChilKes. 

Capsicum  Frut^cens. 

Huldie. 

Turmeric. 

Curcuma  longa. 

Maytie. 

Fenugreek. 

Trigonella  Fcenum. 
Graecum. 

Lassun. 

Garlic. 

Alium  Sativum. 

Sont. 
Udruck. 

Ginger,  dry. 
Ginger,  green. 

Ij  Amomum  Zingiber. 

Khush-khush. 

Poppy  seed. 

Papaver  Somniferum. 

Pipel- 

Long  pepper. 

Piper  longum. 

Hing, 

Assafoetida. 

Ferula  Assafoetida. 

Chironjie. 

Chironjie  nut. 

Buchanonia  Latifolia. 

Badam. 

Almond. 

Amygdalis  Communis. 

Nareul. 

Cocoanut. 

Cocos  Nucifera. 

Tfemuck. 

Salt. 

Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY. 


4oa 


INGREDIENTS  TOR  MAKING  A  CURRY 


WITH  M£AT,  Fowl,  or  Fish. 


Mirchie. 

Chillies^  dry  or 
or   more. 

green,  from   six  tt>  twelve 

Huldie. 

Turmeric, 

one   Tolah. 

Dhunnia. 

Coriander  seed, 

one      „ 

Zeera. 

Cummin  seed, 

three  Maslias, 

Eelachie. 

Cardamom  seed, 

two      „ 

Myatie. 

Fenugreek, 

three    „ 

Sont. 

Dry  ginger, 

three    „ 

Kali  Mirchie. 

Black  pepper. 

one   Tolah. 

Nemuck. 

Salt, 

two      „ 

Laoong. 

Cloves, 

twelve  „ 

Jawatrie. 

Mace, 

one   Masha. 

Kolmie  Darchinie. 

Cinnamon, 

one  Tolah. 

NariH. 

Cocoanut, 

eight    „ 

Chironjie. 

Chironjie  nuts, 

six 

Badani. 

Almonds, 

five       „ 

Khush-khush. 

Poppy  seed, 

five       „ 

Peaz. 

Onions,  a  table-spoonful,  sliced. 

Lussnn. 

Garlic,  from  one 

!  to  three  cloves. 

Am. 

Mangoe,  dried  or  green,  a  few  slices. 

Emlee. 

Tamarind^,  fresh  or  salted,  a  small  quan- 

tity. 

Leemboo. 

Lime  juice,  one 

dessert-spoonful. 

Tyre. 

Curds,  three  table-spoonfuls. 

Ghee  or  Butter, 

three  table-spoonfuls. 

Ob9. — ^These  are  the  quantities  of  the  various  articles  to 
be  used  in  the  preparation  of  a  curry,  bearing  in  mind  it 
is  unnecessary  to  use  the  whole  of  the  spices  together,  or 
the  mangoes,  tamarinds,  or  lime  juice,  neither  the  cocoa- 
nut  with  the  almonds,  and  the  ginger  may  be  omitted 
when  dry  ripe  chillies  are  used,  as  likewise  the  cummin 
seeds  with  the  coriander,  both  of  which  are  better  for 
being  roasted.  Cocoanut  milk  is  much  used  on  the  coast 
in   forming  the   gravy   to  many  curries,  especially  fish    and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


404 


INDIAN   DOMEBTIC  ECONOMY 


prawns,  as  well  as  the  oil    fresh    expressed   from    the  nut 
when   grated. 

If  the  carry  is  to  be  irj,  the  onions  must  be  fried 
brown  in  ghee  or  butter,  and  the  ingredients  ground  to 
a  paste  with  water  mixed  in  the  same,  the  meat,  and 
fowl  added,  stirring  the  whole  until  the  gravj  and  butter 
are   absorbed.  • 

For  a  gravy  curry,  cut  the  meat  or  fowl  into  slices, 
put  the  ghee  into  a  stewpan  over  the  fire  with  the  sliced  oni- 
ons and  dress  them,  then  add  the  meat  with  the  ground 
ingredients,  and  some  water  or  broth,  mix  well  together, 
and  let  the  whole  simmer  gently  until  the  meat  is  pro- 
perly done. 

Chundoo  is  made  with  meat  or  fowl  that  has  been  pre- 
viously dressed,  it  is  to  be  minced  up  and  added  to  chop- 
ped onions  fried  in  ghee  with  whole  red  chillies,  and  the 
other  curry  ingredients  well  mixed  together;  the  frying  is 
continued  until  the  meat  is  perfectly  brown,  and  the  gravy 
quite   absorbed. 


INGREDIENTS  FOE  CURRY  POWDER. 
Four  Receipts. 


TJoTT 


w:' 


Coriander  seeds, 

Turmeric, 

Cammin  8eeds,/^<^^.v.' 
Fenngrcek,.  M  a/.^h-,  : 
Mustard  seed,.... 
Ginger,  dried,... 
Black  pepper,... 
Dried  Chillies,... 

Poppy  seed, 

Garlic, 

Cardamons, 

Cinnamon, 


fts.     20|fts.     13 


No.  3. 


9)8.       8 


No.       4. 


S>8.     1 


1    2oz 
f> 

0  4oz. 
»» 

1  '„ 

0  12  oz. 


0    8oz. 
0    8oz 


(TobeweD 
I  roMted. 

..Pooaded. 

[Dried  and 
t   ground. 

(Dried  and 
<  eleaaedof 
ChiukB. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  405 

Salt  in  proportion  to  be  added  when  using  the  cur- 
ry stuff. 

The  whole  to  be  cleaned,  dried,  pounded,  and  sifted; 
then  properly  mixed  together  and  put  into  bottles,  well 
corked.  A  table-spoonful  is  sufficient  for  a  chicken  or 
fowl  curry. 


INGREDIENTS  FOE  A  CUEEY. 

To  be  added  to  Fowl,    Meat,  or  Fish. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  of  ghee,  one  small  onion,  two 
shreds  of  garlic,  huldie  eight  mashas,  green  ginger  one 
tolah,  a  slice  of  cocoanut,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  salt, 
one  table-spoonful  of  coriander  seed  roasted,  twelve  dried 
chillies,  a  table-spoonful  of    chironjie    or   kush-kush    seeds. 

AnotAer. 

Take  three  table-spoonfuls  of  ghee;  the  same  of  duhee, 
dried  chillies,  turmeric ;  coriander  seed  roasted,  dried 
ginger,  each  one  drachm  and  a  half;  fenugreek  roasted, 
poppy  seeds,  black  pepper,  chironjie  nuts,  of  each  one 
drachm;  twelve  sweet  almonds,  blanched;  cocoanut  half 
an  ounce,  twelve  cloves,  and  half  a  lime;  the  whole  of 
these  ingredients,  with  the  exception  of  the  almonds 
and  nuts,  are  to  be  ground  up  separately,  either  on  a 
stone  or  in  a  mortar,  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water 
to  form  a  paste — the  almonds,  chironjie  and  cocoanut 
must  be  pounded  together ;  and  where  these  are  not 
procurable,  a  tea-spoonful  of  sweet  oil  may  be  substituted. 
Curries  may  be  acidulated  with  dried  or  green  mangoes, 
green,  ripe    or     salted    tamarinds,    lime-juice,     or    vinegar. 

Cut  up  the  fowl,  meat  or  fish  into  its  proper  pieces, 
put  them  into  a  pan  over  the  fire  with  some  sliced  onions 
and  fry  until  brown  in  ghee  or  butter,  when  the  onions 
and  meat  are  nearly  done,  add  the  curry  ingredients  and 
simmer  the  whole  gently  with  a  little  water,  cocoanut 
milk,   or   broth  if  more   gravy   is   required. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


406 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 


CURRIES. 

QUOORMAH. 

The  spices  and  other  ingredients 
Sdcr«cd,;i^kh,  .  ^^^  be  ground  into  a  paste;  aftc'r 
S^^H .:,.  •  •   •  3  Mashas.    which  take   a  seer    (or    two    pounds) 

Red  chillies, .    .    4      ,,  *  ,  *• 

Salt,  ....  3  »  of  mutton  cut  into  small  pieces  and 
c^riLSr^cavM,  1  Toiah.  wash  it  wcU,  rubbing  it  over  with 
Butter*/  ",'.'.*    7,  *'^®  above  paste,  with  which  must  also 

be  mixed  immediately  after,  seven  to- 
lahs  of  butter,  tyre  (or  milk  curds)  half  a  pound,  salt 
nine  mashas,  cloves  one  masha,  cinnamon  one  masha, 
cardamons  in  pods  two  mashas,  onions  cut  into  thin  slices, 
three  tolahs.  When  the  whole  has  been  mixed  together, 
it  should  be  put  into  a  well  tinned  pot  with  a  cover^  and 
placed  over  a  gentle  fire,  stirring  it  occasionally  with  a 
spoon,  until  the  tyre  and  gravy  with  the  butter  is  ab- 
sorbed, leaving  the  meat  rather  brown.  If  it  be  required 
to  make  the  meat  very  soft,  it  will  be  necessary  to  add  a 
couple  of  pints  of  cold  water,  and  to  replace  the  pot  on 
the  fire,  keeping  it  covered  and  shaking  it  about  till  all 
the  water  is  absorbed,  when  it  is  to  be  removed  from  the 
fire  and  eaten  while  warm.  Or  it  may  be  as  well  to 
simmer  the  meat    first   in    water    until    sufficiently    tender. 


Another. 


■x 


Hntton,    .    .    I      Seer. 
Ghee,     . 

lyre,    •  ,         ^ 

Onions  sliced, .  4  Chittacks. 
Salt,     ...    I         „ 

EISon.,1-^  Masha. 

Pepper,   ...  4        „ 
Garlic,  , 


Almonds 
poundc 
Cream,        J 


pounded,  >  ea,  4  Chittacks. 


Slice  and  wash  the  mutton  several 
times;  pound  the  green  ginger  fine 
with  a  little  ghee  and  salt,  and  rub 
over  the  meat;  then  warm  the  ghee 
and  put  in  the  sliced  onions;  when 
they  become  brown,  put  in  the  mut- 
ton and  fry  it  well,  adding  the  garlic 
ground   up  in  a  little    water,  also  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  407 

&ffroii  or  1  1  J  :i 

Turmeric,  -  •  4  Mashas.      cloves^   cardamon  seeds    and    pepper  ; 
^^S^b^a.  ^    '  ^^®^  ^^®   ^^^^    becomes  tender,  put 

in  the  cream  and  almonds^  and  lastly 
the  lemon  juice  and  saffron;  after  a  short  time  bring  the 
stewpan  down,  and  let  it  rest  on  an  easy  charcoal  fire^ 
when^  in  the  course  of  twenty  minutes^  it  will  be  fit  for 
serving. 

PISH  CURRY, 

Take  your  iish^  and  cut  it  up  into  small  pieces ;  wash  it 
all  o?er  with  oil  and  basun  (e .  e.  pounded  raw  gram) ;  wash 
it  in  water  to  remove  the  bason ;  fry  it  in  ghee  with  a 
sufficiency  of  salt;  then  for  each  seer  of  fish  take  six  chit-^ 
tacks  of  ghee ;  put  the  ghee  with  eight  or  ten  dried  chiU 
lies^  a  pinch  of  fenugreek  seed  and  kalah  gerah ;  then 
mix  with  the  fish  a  few  dry  chillies  pounded,  some  turme- 
lie  also,  with  roasted  coriander  seeds,  fenugreek^  and  kalah 
igera^,  also  some  sliced  onions,  and  a  clove  of  garlic,  pound-^ 
ed ;  rub  this  well  over  the  fish,  and  put  it  into  the  ghee 
vith  the  fried  chillies^  and  put  the  whole  into  sufficient 
water  to  boil.  An  acidity  may  be  given  with  tamarind 
juice,  green  mangoes^  vinegar  or  lemon ; — vegetables  may 
be  added  in  the  same  way  as  directed  for  vegetable  curries, 
putting  in  a  layer  of  vegetables  and  then  a  layer  of  fish 
shaking  the  saucepan  to  prevent  the  fish  from  breaking  and 
burning. 

Obs. — ^The  vegetables  usually  added  to  fish  -curries  are 
cabbage,  cauliflower,  fennel,  mathee,  mooringa  pods  and 
leaves. 


AnotAer. 

The  dried  chillies  to  be  well  pound- 
G2»n»d  ? '  /.  '*  ed  in  a  mortar;  then  the  ginger,  gar- 
OmoM,  -  -  -  i  Seer.  ^^^>  zecra,  mathee  bajee  seeds,  dhun- 
BjwdchiiKe8,|  nja^  turmeric  and  half  of  the  onions 

Gretti  ginger,  p*^    ^    •       to  be  mixed  with  the    dried    chillies 


Garlic,  ^ 

Salt,  •  -  -  -   2     „  and  all  well   pounded  or    ground  up 


Digitized  by 


Google 


408 


INDIAN  DOMESTIC    ECONOUY. 


Hathee  Buee*) 

seeds  and    >ea.  1  Tolah. 
Zee^^  } 

Tunaiind,    .    .      2      „ 
Turmeric  and  )  „   i 
Dhunnia,        J  ***  *      » 
A  few  loEtves  of  Kotemear 
(Green  Coriander.) 

green    chillies^    and 
simmer  until  done* 


together ;  the  remaining  half  of  the 
onions  to  be  browned  in  ghee.  The 
juice  to  be  extracted  from  the  tama- 
rinds and  mixed  with  the  dhye,  gheCf 
browned  onions,  kotemear  leaves  and 
added   to     the    fish.    Let   the     whole 


FOWL   CURRY. 


Take  and  cut  the  fowl  by  joints^ 
and  add  to  it  some  sliced  onionst, 
green  ginger,  black  pepper,  salt,  and 
coriander  seeds,  all  ground  well ;  wash 
the  kabool  chennah  and  bojl  it  in  a 
little  water  till  it  becomes  tender,  and 
put  it  tg  the  fowl ;  drain  the  gravy 
into  a  saucepan,  and  mix  the  curry- 
stuff  well  with  it ;  give  a  boghar  to  it  in  ghee  with  cloves  ; 
put  the  fowl  into  a  stewpan  with  some  ghee  and  bj  it 
well ;  then  pour  the  gravy  over  it  and  let  it  simmer  for 
a  short  time,  and  serve  it  up. 

MATHEE  BAJEE  AND  FENNEL  CURRY  WITH  MEAT. 


Ghee,    -    -    -    -  i  Seer. 

Kabool  ohennah^    }     „ 

Onioni,    -**«>« 

Coriander  seeds,    1  Tolah. 

Salt,    -    -    -       2     ,      . 

Cinnamon,  *) 

Cloves,        lea.    2  Mashas, 

Cardamons, ) 

Black  peppeer,    •  I      ^ 

Green  ginger,  -     X  Tokh. 


•-•-•I 


} 


f  Brown  half  of  the  onions  in  ghee ; 

Toiahs.      having  pounded  the  turmeric,  mix    it 

**         with   the     onions ;     grind    the  green 

ginger,    garlic,    dhunnia,    and    dried 

*         chillies;   mix   them  with  the  turmeric 

and  onions,  and  then  put  in  the  meat 

«*  and  dhye  with  a  little  water  \    let  it 

^°^  J**!?'  *^  kotemear    simmer  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and 

and  the  jnice  of  one  hme.  ^ 

Hathee  bigee  and  fennel,  a    keep    stirring  the    mixture  with    the 

bundle    or     each,    picked  •*!     •      i  i  y 

and  cleaned.  meat  t^l  it  becomes  brown  ;  then  cut 

the    remaining  onions  into  thin  slices, 

and  mix  it  with  the  greens,  and  put  them  in  the  saucepan 

with  the  curry  and  simmer  till  done ;  then  take    it  off  the 

fire,   and  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a    lime. 


Meat, 
Ghee,- 

OniODS, 
Green  ginger, 
Garlic,  I  „  K 

Salt,  ^^^ 

Turmeric, 
Bhnnnia,        f 
Dried  chi]lies,>ea^ 
Green    do.     ) 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY. 

DOEPEAZA  THOORAHEE,  OaTHURRI. 


409 


Meat,     -    -    - 
Thoorahee,  - 

Onions,  )  "**^ 


Coarse  tyre,  - 
Garlic,  "J 
Ginger,  Veach 
Salt.       ) 
Turmeric, 
CionamoD,  -    - 
Cloves,        "^ 
Cardamona,  \         , 
Black  pep-  r*-    ^ 


1  Seer. 

i    » 
i    » 

2  Tolahs. 
2  Mashas. 


Clean  the  thoorahee  and  cut  them 
in  small  pieces ;  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  keep  for  an  hour ;  then  wash  them 
in  water  and  fry  in  ghee,  and  put 
them  on  one  side;  cut  the  meat  in 
small  pieces  and  wash  it  in  water; 
rub  it  with  some  pounded  ginger^ 
onions,  salt,  and  garlic,  with  the 
tyre;  give  a  boghar  to  it  in  ghee 
with  cloves,  and  boil  it  till  the  tyre 
is  dried  up ;  then  fry  it  well  in  ghee,  add  a  little  water, 
and  boil  it  for  a  short  time;  then  put  the  thoorahee  to 
the  curry,  stir  them  together  with  a  spoon,  and  simmer 
it   for   a   quarter   of  an   hour. 


DOEPEAZA  HURWEE,  OR  ERVEE. 


1    Seer. 


Mutton,    -    - 

Hurwee,     - 

Ghee,   -    -    - 

Tyre..    -    - 

Onions,     -    - 

Turmeric,    - 

Green  ginger, 

Garlic,    -    • 

Salt,    -    .    . 

Cinnamon,'^ 

Cantamon,  I 

Clores,        Vea.    1  Hasha. 

Black  pep.  | 


Mashas. 
2  ToUks. 
1      „ 


Clean  the  hurwees  and  divide  them 
into  halves;  put  them  into  a  vessel 
and  boil  them  in  several  waters  to 
sweeten  them;  remove  and  dry  them 
in  the  sun,  or  near  the  fire;  after 
which,  fry  them  in  a  little  ghee  till 
they  are  sufficiently  brown,  and  put 
them  aside;  cut  the  meat  in  small 
slices  and  wash  it  in  cold  water, 
pound  some  ginger,  onions,  and  gar- 
lic; squeeze  the  juice  and  put  it  into  a  basin  with  some 
salt  and  tyre;  mix  all  together  and  rub  it  on  the  mutton; 
give  a  boghar  to  it  in  ghee  with  cloves  and  boU  it  with 
the  rest  of  the  tyre  until  it  is  dried  up ;  then  fry  it  well ; 
add  a  little  wat.er,  the  curry  stuff,  and  the  hurwee;  mix 
them  together  and  simmer  till  the  whole  is  done;  when 
ready,  grind  some  saffron,  strew  it  over  the  meat,  and 
Ber\'e. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


410 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 


DOEPEAZA  RUTHALOO. 


Maahas* 


Take  the  rathaloo;  clean  and  cat 
it  into  round  slices ;  take  some 
salt,  the  juice  of  green  ginger,  and 
ujoovan;  mix  them  with  the  tyre  and 
rub  over  the  ruthaloo,  and  put  the  pieces 
in  the  sun  for  two  hours;  take  half 
a  tolah  of  turmeric,  grind  it,  mix  it 
with  the  ruthaloo,  and  give  a  boghar 
in  ghee  with  cloves ;  then  add  some 
water,  and  boil  it  gently  on  the  fire;  when  done,  put  in 
the  curry  stuff,  stir  it  a  little,  and  let  it  stand  on  the  fire 
for  ten  minutes,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 


Rathaloo,  -    •     I    Seer. 
Ghee,  .    .    -      i      „ 
'IVre.     •    -    -    I      „ 
Green  gin-") 

ger,        >e&.    I  Tolak. 
UjooTan,    J 
Salt,     -    .    .    U 
Cinnamon,  -    -    2 
Cloves,       ") 
Cardamons,  i   .    i 
Black  pep-  f^  ^ 

Turmenc,   -    -    3 


KULLEAH  CHOWLAHEE. 


-    1    Secr. 
No.  6 


1 


Take  the  chowlahee  greens,  pick 
out  the  dirt,  grass,  &c. ;  cut  them  in 
small  pieces;  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  some  water,  and  boil  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour;  then  separate 
the  greens  from  the  wat«r;  cut  the 
onions  in  small  slices,  fry  them  in 
ghee,  and  put  it  over  the  greens  with 
some  salt;  fry  some  sliced  garlic  in 
ghee  till  it  becomes  brown ;  then  put 
in  the  greens  and  give  them  a  boghar;  grind  a  little  green 
coriander,  and  add  to  the  greens;  when  tender,  add  the 
curry  stuff  and  shake  the  saucepan  well;  boil  the  eggs 
hard,  cut  them  in  two,  place  them  over  the  greens,  and 
let  the  whole  simmer  for  a  short  time. 


Chowlahee 

greens. 
Eggs,  -    - 
Ghee,     - 
Onions,     - 
Coriander 

green, 
Green  ginger,  Vea.  1  Tolah, 
Garlic,  { 

Salt.  J 

Cardamons,       -    1  Masha. 
CloTes,-    -    -      1      , 
Cinnamon,  .    .    3      „ 
Turmeric,  -    -      8      „ 


KULLEAH  MAE. 


Tish, 
Ghee, 


Tyre, 
Chen 


-    -      1    Seer. 


lennfth  floor ,     | 


Clean  andv  cut  the  fish  into 
pieces;  prick  them  over  with  the 
point     of    a    fork,     and     wash     the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY. 


411 


■.■■■•I 


Seer. 


ThUlee  oil,  « 

Onions,    . 

Tamarind, 

Green  ffinger,*^ 

Coriander,       i 

Garlic,  VealTolah, 

Aniseed,  I 

Zeerah,  J 

Salt,     ....  2 


pieces  with  chennah  flour;  next  rub 
them  over  with  cil^  salt,  and  saf- 
fron^ and  allow  this  to  remain  for 
an  hour;  then  wash  it  off;  rub 
them  again  with  chennah  flour  and 
Cinnamon,  .  .  2  Muhas.  tyre;  wash  it  off  with  lemon  juice; 
.^^»»      1       .  lastly,  rub  the  fish  with  aniseed     and 

•  1  Tolah.  zeerah  ground  in  water ;  when  the 
fish  is  thus  prepared,  grind  the 
whole  of  the  musalah  and  mix  it  with  the  fish  ;  place  a 
vessel  on  the  fire  with  ghee,  and,  when  hot,  throw  in 
the  pieces  and  shake  them  gently ;  grind  the  tamarind 
and  pour  it  upon  Uie  fish  ;  cover  the  saucepan  close  and 
cook  it  with  a  gentle  heat,  taking  care  whilst  stirring 
the  fish,  that  it  is  not  broken    in  the  gravy. 


Cardamona,  ^ea.    1 
Capsicum,  J 
Turmeric,  • 


AnotAer. 

The  fish  is  to  to  be  cleaned,  cut, 
and  prepared  in  the  same  manner 
as  the  last;  grind  the  musalah  into 
a  paste  ;  rub  the  fish  over  with  it, 
and  fry  in  ghee,  stirring  all  the 
while ;  then  grind  the  rice  in  watet 
and  pour  it  upon  the  fish  ;  close  the 
mouth  of  the  vessel  and  allow  it  to 
boil;  when  sufficiently  cooked,  pour  in  syrup  with  lime 
juice ;   carefully  stir  the   whole,   and  serve  it. 


Pish, .    ,    • 
Ghee,  ,    .    . 
Eice, .     •    . 
Onions,    .    . 
Green  ginger,* 

**^*'     lea. 
Garlic.  J  **• 

Cinnamon,   , 

Clovea,        ], 

Cardamona,  > 

Turmeric,  . 


1    Seer. 


ToUh. 


2 

1         n 

.  1  Tolah. 


BIZAH  SADAH. 

Boil  the  eggs  until  quite  hard; 
then  take  off  the  shells  and  separate 
the  whites  from  the  yolk;  cut  the 
white   part    into  slices,   and  put  with 


.  No.  10 
Ghee, ....    4  Seer. 

Salt I  Tolah. 

Sai&on,  ...  1  Masha. 
Turmeric,  ...  1  Tolah. 
Cinnamon,  "^  ai  ii        • 

Cloves,       s.ea.   2  Mashas.    the  yolks  into  a    saucepau    with    half 

Cardamona, ) 

Black  pepper,  ,    .  1      „ 

1  Lime. 


of  the  curry  stuff  that   has   been    well 
ground  up  with  some  salt,  black  pep* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


412 


INDIAN   DOMCsnC    BOONOKT 


per,  a  little  turmeric,  and  part  of  the  ghee ;  mix  aU  together ; 
fry  some  of  th^  ouions  sliced  in  a  little  ghee  to  a  fine 
brown,  add  to  the  eggs  and  spices,  and  fry  them  toge- 
ther ;  then  mix  the  remainder  of  the  onions,  saffron,  and 
curry  stuff,  with  a  small  quantity  of  water,  and  boil  the 
whole  for  a  few  minutes ;   squeeze  a  lime  over   and  serve. 


KULLEAH    BIZAH. 


Manila. 


Take  and  mince  the  meat  small, 
give  it  a  boghar  in  ghee  with  some 
onions  sliced  and  fried ;  slice  the 
green  ginger  and  the  rest  of  the 
onions,  grind  and  mix  the  black  pep- 
per and  other  spices  with  some  salt, 
and  add  this  to  the  curry  ;  pour  over 
it  a  little  water,  and  boil  it  together 
Cloves,  lea.2Ma»hM.  ^^^  ^^^  ^^^^  is  tender  ;  boil  the  eggs 
sfock  pepperj  till     hard  ;   then    take  off    the   shells 

Turmeric.    .     .    1  ToUh.     •     ^^^    ^^^^^  ^^^^    ^.^^   ^  fo^j^    ^    ^^^^^ 

and  put  with  the  meat;  when  the  gravy  is  nearly  dry, 
grind  the  almonds  with  some  rice  water,  and  mix  in  the 
jnydah  with,  a  little  saffron,  and  add  some  water;  then 
boil  it  for  a  short   time,   and   serve  it    up. 


Meat, ....  1    Seer. 

Em,..    No.    10 

Ghee i       ^ 

Onions,.     .    .  i 

Saffron,  .     .     ,  I 

Blanched    'f 

almonds,  [  ea.  2  Tolahs. 

Bice,  3 

Midah,  or  flour,  2      „ 

Roasted   Cori- 
ander seeds,    .  2      „ 

Green  ginger.  .  1      „ 

Cinnamon,   ^ 


DOEPEAZA    DILAEE    KUANEE. 


Meat,      ...    1  8eer. 

Ghee,     .     ,    .     i  ,, 

Cream,     .     .     .  }  „ 

Large  onions, .    l\  „ 

Salt 2  Tolahs. 

Turmeric,     ,    ,    1  „ 

Saffron,     .    .    .  ^  Masha. 
Tyro    and   *) 

Blanclied  >ea.  ^  Seer. 

almonds,  J 
Cinnamon,     "^ 

toon,    U2M»h«. 
Black  pepper,J 


Cut  a  quarter  of  the  onions  in  thin 
round  slices  and  put  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  little  ghee  and  fry  till 
they  are  brown;  keep  on  one  side; 
take  the  remainder  and  prick  them 
well  with  a  fork  all  over  ;  pound  some 
salt,  and  season  them  with  the  same ; 
cut  the  meat  into  thin  slices  and  wash 
it  well ;  then  take  and  grind  half  of 
the  curry  stuff  and  turmeric,  and  mix 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  413 

with  tyre  and  a  little  poanded  salt ;  rub  the  meat  with 
this,  and  fry  it  in  the  ghee  till  it  is  perfectly  brown  ;  then 
poor  over  the  meat  aboat  half  a  seer  of  hot  water  ;  put 
the  onions  with  the  meat,  and  boil  together  tiU  it  ia  done  ; 
when  the  gravy  is  nearly  dried  up,  grind  the  almonds  in 
water  and  mix  them  well  together  with  the  cream,  and 
pour  over  the  meat,  and  boil  it  on  a  slow  fire  till  the  gravy 
is  nearly  reduced ;  mix  some  bruised  saffron  and  fried  oni- 
ons with  the  meatj  and  let  it  stand  on  the  fire  for  a  few 
minutes,    when  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

DOEPEAZA  GHEELANEE. 

Take   and   cut  the    meat     in  slices 

Qh!!^* . '  -*  /  \  ^''  *^^  ^^^  ^*  ^^^1  *  P^^  i^  ^^^^  *  sauce. 
Cream,  -  -  -  i     »  pan  with  a   small  quantity   of  water  ; 

Blanched  ai-  simmcr  gcutly   for  about  twenty  min- 

Onions,    .   .    }    "  utes  ;  then   take   it  from  the  fire  and 

SSdc'r  ieeds,  1   **„  let  it    cool.    Put  it    into  a  separate 

ol^n'gi'ng^/   1    :  saucepan    with   a    smaU     quantity  of 

Cinnamon,  -  2  Mashas.  water,  and  add  somc  sliced  onions, 
Cardamons,     iea,  1 .  gfcen    giDger,    garlic,   poundcd     salt, 

Tiu^rwf^  -  9     „  and  coriander  seeds,  with   a  little  ghee ; 

mix  these  with  the  meat  and  boil  till 
it  is  done ;  then  give  a  boghar  to  the  meat  with  the  ghee 
and  cloves  ;  grind  the  almonds  with  a  little  rice  milk,  and 
mix  well  together  with  the  cream  and  milk  and  strain 
into  a  vessel ;  give  this  a  boghar  with  ghee  and  cloves  ; 
boil  the  whole  up  three  or  four  times,  and  continue  stir- 
ring it  with  a  spoon  ;  then  add  the  curry  stuff,  meat,  and 
gravy  ;  boil  them  together  till  the  gravy  is  reduced  to  more 
than  one-half,   when  it  is  finished. 

DOEPEAZA  HADUS. 

Cut  the  meat  in  large  slices  and 
^iiM  -"  -  -"  \  ^**^*  ^^^  ^  ^^^  *  pound  together  some 
Coanetyre,    -  |    »  ginger,    ouious,  garlic,   and  coriander 


Digitized  by 


Google 


414 


IIIDIAN    DOlUSSTiC  ECOXOMT 


Hanoorica  dhaU 

or  reddhall. 
Garlic,   -    -    - 
Salt,     -    -    . 
Oniont,  -    -    - 
Oreen  ginger, 
Cinnamon,  -    - 

CIOYW,  *) 

Cardamons,  y 
Black  pepper,j 
Turmeric,    •    - 


}  Seer. 
1  Tolah. 
a     » 

1    Seer. 

1  ToUha. 

2  Maahas. 

1.1  „ 
1     ToUh, 


seeds^  and  squeeze  the  juice  into  a 
basin  and  pour  over  it  the  tyre  with 
some  salt  ;  mix  these  together  and 
rub  into  the  meat ;  give  a  boghar  to 
it  in  half  of  the  ghee  with  some  sliced 
onions,  and  boil  it  till  the  tyre  is  dried 
up  ;  then  fry  it  well ;  when  done  put 
with  it  the  mussoorka  dball  and  a  sufi&cient  quantity  of 
water ;  boil  it  till  the  whole  is  tender ;  when  sufficiently 
done,  boghar  it  in  the  remainder  of  the  ghee  with  some 
sliced  garlic,  and  add  the  saffron  and  curry  ptuff,  well 
ground  ;  let  it  simmer  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  on  the  fire* 
Dress  the  hurray  chennahka  doepeaza,  or  horse  gram^ 
as  above. 


KULLEAH  JOGOORANTH. 


Meat,    -    - 
Ghee,  -    -    - 
Coarse  tyre, 
Cream,-    -    - 
Blanched  al- 
mondi,    • 
Onions,     -    • 
Green  ginger. 
Coriander, 
Salt,.    - 
Cinnamon, 
Cardamons,    "1 
Cloves,  i-ea.  1 

Black  pepper,J 


1    Seer. 

!  " 
i  : 

t  : 

ea.l  Tulah. 


...    2 


5  Mashas. 


Cut  the  meat  into  slices  as  for  a 
stew  ;  wash  it  clean,  and  give  a  bo- 
ghar to  it  in  plain  ghee  ;  heat  a  sauce- 
pan, and  put  into  it  a  little  ghee ; 
when  it  is  melted,  put  in  the  meat 
and  fry  it  well ;  then  add  a  small 
quantity  of  water  with  some  sliced 
onions  and  fine  salt ;  pound  some 
green  ginger  and  coriander  seeds  ;  rub 
the  juice  over  the  meat,  and  boil  till 
the  gravy  is  dried  up  ;  then  fry  it  well  ;  when  the  meat  is 
sufficiently  done,  grind  the  almonds  with  a  little  rice  water, 
and  add  to  it  the  tyre  and  cream  ;  stir  and  strain  it  into 
a  basin  and  pour  it  over  the  meaty  adding  the  other  spices ; 
then  boil  till  the  gravy  is  reduced  to  a  sauce,   and  serve. 

Ohs. — If  you  mix  milk  with  a  curry  instead  of  tyre,  it 
is  called  KuUeah  seer  ;  but  if  you  add  to  it  about  half 
a  seer  of  lyre  instead  of  milk,  it  is  called  Kulleah  loowab- 
dar.  A  dry  curry  without  any  sauce,  when  it  is  finished, 
is  called  a  Doepaza. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY. 


415 


Meat,     -    . 
PalwuU,    .    - 
Ghee,     -    - 

5^>    •    "    ■ 

Onions,     -    ' 

INinneric,  -    • 
Oreen  ginger. 
Garlic,    -    - 
Salt,     -    -    . 
Black  pepper, 


-  I  Seer. 
1      .. 


§  Mashas. 
2Tolahs. 

1  n 

2  « 

2  Mashas. 


DOEPEAZA  PULWULL. 

Take  the  puIwuU,  clean  and  cut  in- 
to small  round  slices,  put  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  little  ghee,  and  fry 
them  thoroughly ;  cut  the  meat  into 
small  slices,  and  wash  it  well ;  then 
take  and  beat  the  onions,  ginger, 
and  garlic;  squeeze  the  juice  into  a 
vessel ;  pour  into  it  the  tyre  and  a 
little  fine  salt;  mix  these  together,  and  rub  into  the  meat; 
give  a  boghar  to  it  in  ghee  with  some  thin  sliced  onions, 
and  boil  till  the  tyre  is  dried  up;  then  fry  it  well;  add 
a  little  water,  and  boil  till  the  m^at  is  done ;  when  it  is 
nicely  cooked,  add  the  pulwuU  witb  the  ghee  it  was  fried 
in,  and  stir  together  with  a  spoon;  boil  it  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour ;  put  into  it  the  ground  saffron,  and  let  it 
simmer  on  a  slow  fire  for  a  few  minutes;  when  it  will  be 
ready  for  use.  The  kundooree,  kukodah,  and  chichondrah 
are  to   be  dressed  in  the  same  manner. 

Obs. — In  most  of  the  Persian  receipts  the  word  saffron 
is  used,  but  most  generally  turmeric  is  the  proper  article 
meant,   especially  in   curries. 


KULLEAH  NARGISSB, 


Cut  the  meat  in  pieces,  and  fry  it 
with  the  ground  musalah  in  the  ghee ; 
then  add  a  sufficient  quantity  of  wa- 
ter, and  set  it  to  boil ;  clean  the  ve- 
getable and  the  moong  and  throw 
them  in;  when  sufficiently  cooked, 
remove  and  strain  off  the  gravy ; 
mash  the  moong  in  it,  and  give  the 
whole  a  boghar ;  now  put  in  the  meat 
and  vegetables,  and  boil  for  a  few 
minutes ;  boil  the   eggs  hard,  cut  them  in  halves,  and  when 


M'tatton,    .    .    1    Seer. 

Eeg^     .    No.  5 

Ghee,  •    •    .    J    Seer. 

Onions, ...  4        „ 

Green  ginger,    *2    Tolahs. 

Capsicnm, 

Tnrmenc,   . 

Chnknnder,  . 

Carrots, 

Palttk,      .    . 

Moong, .    . 

Coriander,     . 

Salt,      .     .    .2        „ 

S;SrS:i -2   Mashas. 


Seer. 


Tolahs. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


416 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY. 


the  curry  is  all  but  ready,  grind  and  add  the   turmeric  and 
the  eggs,  and    allow    it   to   simmer  for   a  few  minutes. 


DOEPEAZA  NARGISSE. 

Cut  the  meat  in  pieces  and  boil 
in  a  little  water  ;  add  the  ground 
musalah  and  fry  them  in  ghee  till 
nearly  dry;  add  more  ghee,  onions 
sliced,  and  a  little  water,  and  cook 
on  a  gentle  fire  ;  clean  the  paluk, 
and  lay  it  upon  the  curry  ;  next  bake 
or  boil  the  eggs  hard,  take  off  the 
shells,  and  lay  them  carefully  upon 
the  vegetables,  (which  are  not  to  be  mixed  with  the  cur- 
ry) ;  sprinkle  over  them  some  pounded  salt,  pepper  and 
spice;  cover  the  vessel  close,  and  after  few  minutes  re- 
move  it,   and  serve  without    disturbing  the   eggs. 


Mutton,     -    -    . 

.  I  Seer. 

l^, . '!"':  - 

5 

Onions,  -    -    - 

1     .. 

Salt. 

Green  ginger. 
Coriander,    -    - 

2  ToUhs. 

1          n 

Cinnamon,  -    -    • 

.  2Masha8. 

aoves 

Cardamons,  <9A, 

1      » 

Capsicums.     . 
Palak,     -     -    - 

i  Seer. 

Matton, 

Ghee, 

Onious, 


-    No.  5 

} 


1     Seer. 


ea.  2    Tolahs. 
-    1        „ 


KULLEAH   KOONDUN. 

Mince  a  quarter  of  the  meat,  mix 
in  a  portion  of  the  musalah,  fry  it 
dry  in  ghee  with  a  few  onions,  and 
grind  the  whole  into  a  paste;  boil 
the  eggs  hard,  remove  the  shells,  and 
prick  them  with  a  fork  ;  apply  the 
mutton  paste  thickly  over,  and  fry 
them  in  ghee;  next  take  the  remain- 
ing portion  of  meat  and  musalah  ; 
make  it  into  a  curry  with  or  without  gravy  ;  put  the  eggs  up- 
on it,  and  serve  with  syrup  or  lime-juice   according  to   taste. 


KULLEAH  SHEERAZA. 

Cut  the  meat  in  pieces ;  take  the 
onions  sliced,  the  salt,  green  ginger, 
and  coriander  ground,   and  fry   all  to- 


Green  gin- 

ger, 
Salt, 

Coriander, 
Blanched  al-, 

monds,    • 
Cinnamon, 
Cloves,  -    - 


Mutton,    -    -    1 

Seer. 

Onions,  •    -    -  J 

i> 

Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  417 

_  ^  gether  in  ghee ;  when  sufficiently  fried. 

Coriander,  >ea.i  Tolah.  take  out  a  quarter  of  the  meat,  and 
Pisuduo   "I  lay  it  aside,  and  to  the  remaining  por- 

Bkndled     .ea.  2    »  ^io^,   add,   while  On    the    fire,    some 

j^^^^  water;   boil    till    the    meat    becomes 

Cinnamon,  -  -  2  Mashas.  soft ;  strain  oflf  the  gravy,  and  bo- 
Cardamons,  Vea.  1     ,  ghar  the  meat;   then  mix  into  it  some 

^^°*  flour  and  water  and  the  remainder  of 

the  musalah  pounded  into  a  paste;  allow  it  to  boil.  Then 
take  the  quarter  of  the  meat  that  was  laid  aside ;  mix  it 
with  some  water  and  the  white  of  the  eggs ;  set  it  on  the 
fire;  when  done,  throw  in  the  meat  which  was  left,  stir 
the  whole ;  add  syrup  and  lime-juice,  if  approved,  and  serve 
it  up   with  the  saffron  spread  over  it« 


DOEPEAZA  SHEERAZA. 

Take  the  same  quantity  of  meat  and  musalah  as  the 
last ;  prepare  in  a  similar  manner,  'only  taking  care  to  add 
the  whole  of  the  eggs  all  beat  up.  This  curry  is  to  be 
prepared  dry,  and  less  water  used.  The  syrup  and  lime- 
juice  may  be  added  or  not. 

KULLEAH  ZUFFRAN  KUSSAH. 
Take  any  quantity  .of  chopped  meat  and  all  the  ingre- 
dients for  a  good  curry ;  grind  the  whole  with  the  meat, 
occasionally  adding  beaten  eggs  and  hard  tyre  while  grind- 
ing ;  form  this  into  balls,  and  fry  in  ghee  till  brown,  or 
they  split  open ;  then  put  in  a  little  saffron  and  almonds^ 
ground  in  water,  stir  the  whole  and  continue  the  boiling. 
Add   syrup   and  lime-jaice  to   taste. 

KEEMA  KULLEAH  KUSHMERE. 

Fry  the  meat  with  the  prepared 
Ghi^'':"  /  .'  \  ^'  musalah  in  ghee  ;  add  water,  and  al- 
Cinnamon,  -  -  2  Mashas.      Jq^  jt  to  boil  for  somc  time ;  rcmove 


Digitized  by 


Google 


418 


INDIAN    DOMESTIC   ECONOMY. 


Turmeric,    -    -    1  Masha.  -      .1  i.     #  xi_  j     1     •! 

jud  the  uflnai  quantity  of    tiie  meat    irom  toe    gravy,  and    boil 

musBkh  for  a  good  curry,      j^^    ^^^  j^^^^  ^^  j^^j  ^j^^    quantity  ; 

boghar  the  meat  three  saccessive  times  with  ghee  and  cloves 
till  dry ;  then  throw  in  the  gravy  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes. 
Syrup    and  lime-juice  may   or  may  not  be  ^added. 


KULLEAH  PALSAH. 

Cut  the  meat  in  pieces  and  fry 
with  the  musalah  ground  in  ghee; 
add  water,  and  continue  to  boil  till 
the  meat  becomes  soft;  remove  the 
meat;  strain  off  the  gravy;  boghar 
the  meat  with  ghee  and  cloves ;  add 
the  gravy,  and  boil  till  it  is  dry ;  then 
sqaeeze  the  falsahs  and  sugar  with 
some  water ;  strain  off  the  juice  and 
ponr  it  upon  the  meat;  after  a  few 
minutes  boiling,  grind  the  almonds  and  rice  in  a  little 
water  and  stir  it  into  the  whole;  simmer  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  and  remove  the  vessel. 


Mutton,     -    - 

1  Seer. 

4      1* 

Salt,.'.    -    . 

dTolalit. 

Coriander,     • 

1      " 

Green  ginger,  - 

^      » 

Cinnamon,     • 

SMaahas. 

ClOTCi,  -     -     - 

*      » 

Cardamom,    - 

^          H 

Blanched 

almondf ,  •    - 

iSeer. 

w 

Fa^Jisripe,    - 

Bice.    .r. 

1  Chittack. 

Kntton. 
Ghee. 

Sweet  Tyi«. 
Blanched  ahnondi. 
« Onions. 
Coriander. 
Salt. 

Green  ginger. 
Cinnamon, 
CloTes. 
Cardamona. 
Black  pepper. 


vy  on  the  meat; 
rice  water  and  the 
dimmer   till  done. 


KULLEAH  BAUTHAMEE. 


Take  a  seer  of  meat  and  cut  it 
into  the  shape  of  almonds ;  fry  it  in 
ghee  and  sliced  onions  till  it  becomes 
brown;  mix  with  it  the  salt,  corian- 
der seeds,  green  ginger,  and  some 
water,  and  let  it  boil  till  the  meat 
is  done;  then  strain  the  gravy  into 
another  saucepan ;  give  it  a  boghar 
with  ghee  and  cloves;  pour  the  gra- 
mix  together  the  almonds  ground  in 
curry  stuff;  add  this  to  the   meat,   and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   OOOKIRY. 


419 


KULLEAH  UMBAIL 


Mutton,  -   -    -  1  Seer. 

Ghee,  ...  ^    , 

Mangoes,  unripe,  i    „ 

Onions,  -    .    .  i    „ 
Green  gingor,^ 
Sdt, 


Coriander 


Black  pepper, 

ClOTCS,' 

Cardamons, 
Cinnamon,  - 


Tnrmeric,* 


.  1  Tolah. 


ea.  1  Maaha. 


i  Tolahs. 
2  Mashas. 


Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces;  heat 
a  saacepan  on  the  fire,  and  put  into 
it  some  ghee  and  sliced  onions;  fry 
tbem  well  until  of  a  brown  colour; 
then  give  a  boghar  to  the  meat  in 
the  same  ghee  and  onionsi  and  fry 
until  the  gravy  is  mixed  with  the  ghee ; 
add  some  pounded  salt  and  coriander 
seeds  with  a  little  water^  and  boil  it 
till  the  meat  'is  nearly  done;  then 
strain  the  gravy  into  a  separate  saucepan,  and  give  a  boghar 
again  to  the  meat  and  gravy  in  ghee,  with  some  cloves; 
clean  and  stone  the  raisins;  put  these  also  to  the  meat, 
take  half  of  the  mangoes,  clean  and  cut  them  into  small 
slices,  and  boil  in  water  till  tender;  then  make  a  syrup 
with  sugar,  some  water,  and  the  juice  of  two  limes,  and 
pat  to  the  mangoes ;  let  them  stand  for  an  hour,  then  separ- 
ate them  from  the  syrup  and  keep  them  on  one  side ;  boil  the 
remaining  mangoes  in  water,  mash  them  well,  and  add  the 
syrup;  then  mix  this  with  the  meat,  and  boil  for  a  few 
minutes;  add  the  preserved  mangoes,  curry  stuff,  and  a 
little  saffron  ground  in  rice  milk ;  mix  all  together,  and 
let  it  simmer   for  a   short  time. 


KULLEAH  BOORANEE. 


Hntton.  -    - 
Carrots,     • 
Ghee,     -    - 

}^    '    ' 
Onions,  -    - 

Sal^     -    - 

Coriander^ 

seeds. 

Garlic, 

Green  gin- 

_8af»  .     ' 
Turmeric,    - 

CiniuunoD, 


-    1    Seer. 


Tolahs. 


ea.    1 


3  Maahas. 


Take  tliree-fourths  of  the  meat  and 
cut  it  in  slices;  heat  a  little  ghee 
with  some  sliced  onions  in  a  sauce- 
pan, and  fry  them  till  they  are  of  a 
brown  colour ;  then  give  a  boghar  to 
the  meat  in  the  same,  and  fry  well 
until  the  gravy  is  mixed  with  the 
ghee ;  add  pounded  salt  and  corian- 


Digitized  by 


Google      


420  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

cioyei,        "J  Jer  seeds  with  some  water,  and  finish 

Cardamons,     Vea.lMasha.  ,  ^  .    . 

Black  pcpperj  the    cooKmg.    Take    the     remaining 

quarter  seer  of  meat,  put  it  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  little  water  and  let  it  boil  till  half  done ; 
mince  it  and  then  mix  with  it  a  little  suet  and  one  tolah 
weight  of  mydah;  put  these  into  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a 
paste;  clean  the  carrots  well,  cut  them  into  slices  length- 
ways, rub  the  pounded  meat  over  them,  and  fry  in  ghee; 
when  all  the  carrots  are  fried,  put  in  the  boiled  meat  and 
the  curry  stuff,  ground ;  cover  the  saucepan,  and  let  it  cook 
gently ;  grind  the  garlic  with  a  little  rice  milk ;  mix  the 
same  with  tyre,  and  give  a  boghar  to  it  in  ghee  with  cloves ; 
add  a  little  saffron,  and  boil  it  for  a  short  time.  When 
you  serve  the  curry,  pour  over  it  the  tyre,  Be^t-root  and 
brinjals  are  prepared  in  the   same  way. 

DOEPEAZA  KUEKALAH. 

Cut  the  meat  in  slices ;  put  it  in- 

Mutton, ...    1  Seer.  to   a  saucepau,   and  give  it  a  boghar 

Ghee,    -^  lu   ghee.    With    some    sliced    onions ; 

Omons,  J***^           **  ^hen  add  some  pounded   salt  and   co- 

CoriliiidJr  "  <    ^  ^°^^  riander  seeds,  with  a  little  water,  and 

seeds,        9^  ^  j^q^  ^i  ^he     meat  is  tender;   clean 

Green  ginger,)  and   take   out  the   sccds  of  the  kur- 

Gmnamon,  -    .      2  Mashas, 

Cardamons,    |  ralahs ;    rub    them   over    with    some 

Black^peppcr,/**'     "  ground  turmeric  and  salt,  and  put  in 

the  sun  for  ten  minutes ;  then  wash 
them  well  in  water  three  or  four  times;  soak  them  in  tyre 
for  four  hours,  and  wash  them  again;  heat  in  a  frying 
pan  some  ghee  and  fry  the  kurralahs;  then  put  them  with 
the  meat,  and  boil  till  it  is  tender;  add  the  curry  stuff, 
and  stir  it  well  together ;  let  it  be  on  the  fire  for  about 
twenty   minutes,  when  it   will  be   fit   for  use. 

KULLEAH  YEKHUNEE- 

Mutton,.   .  .   1   Seer.  Take  and   cut  the  meat   into  slices 

Onions, .  .   .   |    '^  as  for  hash ;    put  it  into   a  saucepan 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY. 


421 


Gil 


each 


1   Tolah. 


Garlic,  ^ 
Tnnnerfe, 

^^   fea.3M«h.., 

ClOTCS,  ^ 

Sugar,    -    -    -       |  Seer, 
lime*,     -    -     -   i    „, 


with  a  safficieat  quantity  of  water; 
add  to  it  some  salt^  onions^  ginger^ 
and  garlic,  all  well  bruised,  and  boil 
till  the  meat  is  done ;  strain  the  gravy 
into  another  saucepan,  and  give  a  bo- 
ghar  to  the  meat  and  gravy  in  ghee 
with  cloves;  make  the  sugar  and  lime-juice  into  a  syrup, 
with  some  water;  pour  this  with  the  meat;  grind  about 
one-eighth  seer  of  blanched  almonds  with  rice  water;  add 
the  curry  stuff  ground,  and  saffron  together;  mix  them 
aud  put  over  the  meat ;  stir  it  well,  and  boil  for  a  quar- 
ter of  an    hour. 


KULLEAH  DOOLMAH  KUREALAH. 


Mutton,    .    .    1}  Seer. 
KomlalUylarge,!      „ 
Ghee,     -    -    -  I      „ 
Tyre,  -    -    .    I      „ 
Onions,  -    -    -  ^      ,, 
Salt,    .    .    .    STolahs. 
Tnrmeric,    -    - 1      „ 
Green  ginger,-    1      „ 
Cinnamon,  -    -  2  Masliai. 
CloTea,     -    -    2      „ 
Black  pepper,      1      „ 


Take  one  seer  of  meat;  cut  it  in 
small  slices ;  put  a  saucepan  on  the 
fire,  with  some  ghee  and  onions  sliced, 
and  fry  them  to  a  brown  colour ; 
then  put  in  the  meat  and  fry  till  the 
gravy  is  mixed  with  the  ghee ;  add 
some  pounded  salt  and  black  pepper 
with  a  little  water,  and  boil  till  the 
meat  is  tender;  clean  the  kurralahs  and  cut  them  length- 
ways; rub  the  slices  with  some  salt  and  turmeric,  ground, 
and  keep  them  in  the  sun  for  an  hour;  then  wash  them 
in  water  three  or  four  times,  and  soak  them  in  tyre  about 
four  hours;  mince  the  remaining  half  seer  of  meat,  and 
give  a  boghar  to  it  in  ghee  with  some  sliced  onions ;  put 
in  the  curry  stuff  and  a  little  water,  and  boil  it ;  when  the 
water  is  nearly  dried  up,  fry  the  same ;  clean  the  kurra- 
lahs well  in  water,  stuff  them  with  the  minced  meat,  and 
tie  them  round  with  bt  thread ;  put  them  with  the  meat, 
and  boil ;  when  the  kurralahs  are  nearly  cooked,  fry  them 
together  till  the  w^ter  is  dried  up ;  add  a  little  saffron 
ground  in  water;  and  let  it  stand  for  a  few  minutes;  then 
take  it  from   the  fire. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


42» 


1ND1A>'    DOMESTIC  SCONOMT 

DOEPEAZA  KUS8AH. 


Tolah. 


Grind  the    masalah    into   a  p»li|| 
mix  it  with   the  mince,    and 
the  whole  well ;   form  it  into  balls  i 
one  large  cake;  lay  it  on   a  cloth 
a  wide-mouthed  vessel  containing 
ter  on    the    fire;  the  meat   must 
carefully  placed   upon  the   cloth^ 
allowed    to    steam  till  it  is  dressed;   then  remove   it, 
fry   it   with   ghee  and   onions ;   next  add  some  water 
the  coriander  seed  ground,   and   cook  it  a  little  longer. 


Mutton  minced,    1  Seer. 
Ohee,    ...    1      ^ 
Hard  tyre,  •    -    J      „ 
Oniona,    -    - 
Oreen  ginger, 
Coriander,  • 
CinQftmon,   • 
Cloves,   -    - 
Cardamons,  - 


2  Mashaa. 
1  Tolah. 


DOEPEAZA  KOOFTHA  LOWABDAR. 


Take  a  seer  of  the  meat,  and  cat 
it  into  small  slices ;  put  it  into  a  | 
saucepan  and  give  a  boghar  to  it  in 
ghee  with  some  sliced  onions,  and  fry 
it  well  until  the  gravy  is  mixed  with 
the  ghee ;  add  some  pounded  salt,  cor- 
iander seedsy  and  water,  boil  till  the 
meat  is  tender ;  mince  the  remainder 
of  the  meat  with  a  little  suet  and  flour,  and  pound  the 
whole  in  a  mortar  to  a  paste ;  make  it  into  small  balls, 
and  fry  them  in  ghee ;  and  when  they  are  sufficiently  done, 
put  them  with  the  curry  stuff,  and  add  a  little  saffron  with 
the  meat,  and  let  it  stand  on  a  slow  fire  for  a  few    minutes. 


Mntton,  -    -    - 

IjSeer. 

Ghee,    .    -    . 

*> 

Onions,  -    -    - 
Salt,   -    -    -    - 

iTokha. 

Corianderseed.  > 
Green  ginger,  }  *" 

.1        n 

Httldic.    -    .    - 

V        n 

Cinnamon, 

8        n 

Cardamons,  -    • 

M      n 

Cloves.            )   ^ 
Black  pepper.  J  «*• 

1  » 

KULLEAH  DOEPEAZA- 


Sheep*s  Head  and  Fore  feet. 


Mntton, 
Ghee,  -    •    . 
Onions,  .    <•    • 
Salt.    -    -    -    . 
Green  ginger. 
Garlic,    -    -    - 
Chillies,     -    . 
Coriander,  \  .. 
Huldie,      }*■• 


Seer. 


3  Tolahs. 

1   : 

1    Masha. 
1   Tolah. 


Fry  the  onions  and  garlic  in  some 
ghee,  and  remove  them  into  a  saucer; 
next  fry  the  saffron  in  the  same  ghee ; 
clean  the  head,  fe«t,  and  meat  well, 
and  put  them  in  with  them ;  when  fried, 
add  some  water  and  allow  the  whole  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKEKY.  483 

boil  till  the  meat  becomes   soft  and 

CiBBttDOD,    -      a  Mashas.  .#^1.1  xi. 

ciores,      i^j  separates  from  the  bones;  throw  m- 

^^''^*°^"'''        ".  to  the  vessel   the    fried  onions,   and 

garUc,  with  a  little  rice  ground  in  water,  together  with 
the  remainder  of  the  musalah  properly  ground;  simmer 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  and  remove  from  the  fire. 


KULLEAH  BUNDGOODAY. 

KifsMeat,     -    1    Seer.  r.  ^     •        *!.•        r 

Qkbt, ....  4    „  Gut    in    thin  shces    some    omons, 

SSi^l."  i    I  garlic,  and  green  ginger;   put  them  in 

G«agmger,^  |  ToUh..      ^  frying-pan  with   a    little  ghee,  and 


I  *  i  Seer.         f^  till  browu ;   keep  them  on  one  side ; 
CnuL,T*~  .    1    „  then   strain  the  ghee  and  put    it  in 

Tnniieric,T^-   1    ^     '      another    saucepan    and    keep    it  hot; 
§jjj^  ■   ^*      *    "  cut  the  meat  in  small  slices  and  sea- 

gmunon,  lea.  2lUBha8.  son  it  with  a  part  of  the  curry  stuff, 
onions,  green  ginger,  and  garlic ;  mix 
these  together  with  a  bttle  tyre,  and  rub  over  the  meat, 
and  give  it  a  boghar  in  ghee;  then  put  in  the  chennah 
dhall  and  boil  it  with  the  rest  of  the  tyre»  until  it  is  dried 
ap;  fry  it  well;  add  a  little  water  and  simmer  it  till  the 
meat  is  tender ;  grind  the  almonds  with  rice  water  and 
mix  it  with  the  cream,  and,  stirring  it  together,  pour  over 
the  meat ;  then  put  the  onions  fried  with  the  rest  of  the 
carry  stuff  to  if,  adding  a  little  ground  saffron,  and  squeeze 
over  it  the  juice  of  a  lime,  and  boil  for  a  short  time. 


DOEPEAZA  MUSHHAWDY. 

Take  and  cut  the  meat  in  small 
Oh«,°^.*-  4  „'  slices  and  wash  it  four  or  five  times 
SS"-*^ . '  -  I    "  ^^  c^^^  water,  and-  soak  it  for  an  hour ; 


^luchedal.^ 

Cream  and  ( "'i  ^^'         and  put  iuto    it  the    whole   quantity 


Blanched  al.^  then    heat   a  saucepan  over    the  fire 

monds,       ' 


Digitized  by 


Google 


424  INDIAN   DOMESTIC    ECONOMY. 

Cinnamon,   -  -  2  Mashas.      till   brown  :   then   lay  the  meat    over 

Cloves,  -    -    • .    1        „ 

Black  ptepper,     I      „  them  aiid  add  some  salt,   the  curry  staff 

"™*"*''  "    "  '      well  ground,  with  a  small  quantity   of 

water;  simmer  slowly  till  the  meat  is  thoroughly  done; 
when  the  water  is  dried  up,  fry  it  well ;  grind  the  almonds 
with  a  little  milk  and  mix  with  the  cream,  tyre,  and  milk; 
stir  the  whole  well  and  strain  into  another  vessel,  and  boil 
it  gently  till  it  is  reduced  to'  one  half;  then  pour  it 
over  the  meat,  and  put  it  on  a  charcoal  fire,  for  about  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  stirring  it  the  whole  time,  when  it  will 
be  ready  for  use. 

DOEPEAZA  QUOORMAH. 

Cut  the  meat  in  small  slices,   and 
Kid's  meat,-   *     1  Seer.        prick  it  with   a  f ork ;   rub   it  with   a 

Ghee,  ----1„*  ' 

Coarse  tyre,  -     f    „  mixture  of  beaten  ginger,  onions,  gar- 

Coriander' seeds,"   1  ToTah.       lic.   Coriander   secds,  and   salt,   with  a 

Turmeric,    .    -      1      „  y^^ig    ^^^^^    ^^^    ^^^     jj    f^^    Yislf    BXL 

Green     |  ea.     2    „  jjQur ;   heat  a    saucepan  on   the  fire. 

Cinnamon,       -  2  Mashas.    and   put  in  it   somc  sliccd  onions  with 

Cloves,  -)  ^ 

Cardamons,   >ea.i  „  a  little  ghee,  and  fry   them    till  they 

^^^^^  are   brown ;  then  keep  it  on  one   side  ; 

give  a  boghar  to  the  meat  in  some  ghee  witli  cloves ;  add 
a  small  quantity  of  water  and  boil  till  the  water  is  reduced ; 
then  fry  the  meat  well ;  when  it  is  properly  fried,  mix  in 
the  curry  stuff,  the  tyre,  and  fried  onions  altogether,  and 
simmer  for  a  short  time ;   add  some   saffron,   and  serve   it. 


Anoiier, 

Cut  the  meat  in  small  slices,  and  prick  it  with  a  fork ;  beat 
some  ginger,  onions,  garlic,  and  coriander  seeds ;  squeeze 
the  juice  in*  a  vessel;  add  to  it  a  little  tyre  and  some 
salt ;  mix  these  together  and  rub  over  the  meat ;  give  a 
boghar  to  it  in  ghee  with  some  fried  onions,  adding  a  lit- 
tle water,   and  boil  till  the   liquid  is   dried  up ;   grind  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOSLlCKT.  425 

aaffiron  and  curry    stuff,   mix     them    together,   and  fry   the 
whole  till  it   is    done;   then  serve. 


DOEPEAZA  KITCHEEIE, 

Wash    the    meat    well    and  cut  it 

§^"!**!  *No*7^^*  ^^^  ^®  »^"^P®  ^  <iice;  pound  the 
^^^  .  .  .  I  Sear.  green  ginger,  onions,  and  gatlic; 
^^   '  -   *  -    f^^V*-      squeeze    the   juice    into  a  basin  and 

Tnrneiie,  ...  3  If  Mhas.  ' 

tinn  ginger,  .  1  Tdah.  add  some  salt ;  rub  the  meat  with 
dorea,  "*    1     j  j|^^      *Ws  and   give  a  boghar  to  it   in  ghee 

§*S[top«J  ^^^  ^^^  ^"^^    onions;    pour  in  it 

a  little  water  and  boil  till  the  gravy 
is  dried  up  ;  then  fry  it  well ;  take  the  whites  of  seven 
eggs  i  put  them  in  a  basin  with  a  little  water  and  warm  them 
on  the  fire,  stirring  them  with  a  spoon  till  done ;  then  mix  them 
with  the  meat  and  simmer  with  a  little  water  for  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour;  then  add  the  ground  curry  stuff  and  a 
little  saffron;  simmer  it  for  a  few  minutes  longer,  when  it 
will   be   fit  for  use. 

KULLEAH   SADAH. 

Take  and  cut  the  meat  mto  small 
squares;  heat  a  frying  pan  on  the 
fire,  and  put  into  it  about  five  tolahs' 
Weight  of  ghee  with  some  sliced  oni- 
ons, and  fry  them;  when  the  onions 
are  perfectly  brown,  put  in  the  meat 
with  a  little  pounded  salt  and  some 
water,  and,  while  boiling,  cut  up  the 
beet-root,  turnips,  carrots,  and  green 
ginger  into  slices,  and  put  these  with 
the  meat ;  when  they  are  perfectly  done,  strain  the  gravy, 
and  give  a  boghar  to  the  meat,  gravy,  &c.  kc*  in  ghee 
with  cloves ;  add  the  ground  curry  stuff  with  a  little  milk 
and  saffron;    simmer   it  on    the  fire  for   a  quarter   of  an 

hour;   when   done,    serve  it. 

f2 


Mttt,    .    .    . 

.   1  8cer. 

Qh«,     .    . 

.      4     « 

Onions,     .    . 

.'    llUshn. 

Pepptt,  .    . 

Tnraierie,   .    . 

.  1  Tolnh. 

Qingnr,    .    . 

.       1        n 

Mt,     .    .    . 

.  ^  „ 

Cinnnmon,  *) 
Cloves,        [ 
CttnUmons,  3 

ea.2Mash«i. 

Beet-Eoot,    . 

.      ^Sesr. 

Tnniips,    .    . 

•            n 

Oviots, 

•              » 

DluJl,    .    .    . 

.dTolnhs. 

Digitized  by 


Google 


426  INDIAN  ooMnnc  Mcoxomr 


KULLEAH   CHASHNEEDAB 

It  prepared  the  same  way  as  above^    with  the  additioB 
of  one-third  seer  of  sugar  and  one-third  seer  of  lime-juice. 


KULLEAH  DOOEBAJ  AND  LOWAH. 

Cat  the  meat  in  slices  and  pat  in 
UuS^.  .^'asewi.  a  saucepan  with  some  wat«r,  aiieed 
0^^;  \'.'\     '^  onions,  green  ginger,  coriander  seeds, 

g^!»^-    \^' J  Chituek.    and  83it    pounded;    and    simmer    the 
Cream,    .   .   •  |  Sm.         meat  till  it  is  quite  tender  and    sepe- 


bUociMd,    .    ^    „  rates  from  the  bones ;  then  strain   the 

^*ieric,\'.    SSiSS?'    ff^^   ^^  »  saucepan  and  boghar  it 
^*™^L»hs  twice  in  ghee  with  cloves.    Cat    the 

c«rdMiioiii,j^       *"  partridges    down  the    middle    length- 

^**'    '   '   '  '  '  ways,    and     wash    them    well;     then 

prick  them  all  over  with  a  fork,  and  rub  them  with  cben- 
nah  flour  and  afterwards  wash  it  off;  cut  some  onions,  rub 
them  well  over  the  partridges  and  wash  them  again ;  give 
a  boghar  to  them  in  ghee  with  some  sliced  onions  and 
the  juice  of  the  bruised  ginger ;  grind  the  curry  stuff  and 
coriander  seeds,  with  a  little  salt;  mix  all  together  and 
boil  with  some  gravy  till  tender  and  nearly  dried  up ;  tlien 
fry  it  and  sprinkle  over  with  a  little  juice  of  lemon  and 
garlic;  then  mir  the  rest  of  the  gravy  and  boil  it  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour;  grind  the  almonds  with  a  little  rioe 
water  and  mix  them  with  the  cream  and  stir  it  well  and 
pour  it  over  the  partridges,  adding  a  little  saffron;  then 
simmer  for  about  twenty  minutes. 


RICE,  TO  BOIL. 

First  spread  it  on  a  table  or  cloth,  and  pick  out  all  the 
stones  or  gravel ;  then  wash  in  two  or  three  different  waters, 
rubbiug  the  rice  well  between  the  hands ;  add  a  little  lime- 
juice  or  alum  powder  to    whiten  it;  drain  and  thzow  it  in- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKSSY.  4S7 

to  a  large  quantity  of  water  ;  let  it  boil  gently,  and  con- 
tinne  nntil  it  is  tender,  or  onlj  a  small  core  in  the  centre 
remains ;  throw  it  into  a  cullender,  and  let  it  drain  for  a 
few  minutes  ;  then  return  it  into  the  saucepan,  and  place 
it  near  the  fire,  so  that  it  may  steam  quite  dry,  with  a 
cloth  only  over  the    rice. 

KITCHEKIE. 

Steep  half  of  a  pint  of  split  dhall  or  dry  peas  in  water ; 
and  half  a  pound  of  picked  and  washed  rice  with  a  little 
ginger,  mace,  and  salt ;  boil  till  the  peas  or  dhall  and  rice 
are  swollen  and  tender ;  stir  the  whole  till  the  water  has 
evaporated ;  have  ready  some  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  halves, 
and  an  onion  or  two  sliced  and  fried  in  ghee  to  garnish 
with;  or  add  small  boiled  onions. 

Obs. — To  be  well  dressed,  the  dhall  and  rice  should  not 
be  clammy. 

PEPPER  WATER  SOUR. 

Pry  an  ounce  of  black  pepper,  the  same  quantity  of  red 
pulse  or  dhall,  and  two  or  three  carapala  leaves  (or  cur- 
rypak)  with  ghee  in  an  iron  ladle  ;  then  grind  these  into 
a  fine  paste,  mix  in  an  ounce  of  tamarind  pulp,  with  a 
pint  of  fresh  water,  and  let  it  boil  up  two  or  three  times ; 
when  mustard,  cummin,  and  fenugreek  seeds,  fried  in  ghee, 
are  to  be  added. 

Fry  half  an  ounce  of  pepper  with  the  same 
Antdher.  quantity  of  red  pulse  or  dhall  in  ghee ;  grind  it 
uid  mix  it  in  water ;  then  put  into  it  a  little  salt 
and  the  juice  of  a  lime ;  boil  it  in  the  same  manner  as 
directed  in  the  preceding,  and  add  fried  cummin,  mustard, 
and  fenugreek  seeds  ;  while  the  mixture  is  boiling,  also  throw 
in  two  or  three  carapala  leaves  ;  if  fragrance  is  required  put 
in  some  nloringa  fruit  cut  into  pieces,  or  shells  of  the  wood 


Digitized  by 


Google 


428  INDIAN   DOMBSnC  ECONOMY 

apple.  Coriander  in  a  small  quantity  is  necessary  to  be. 
put  in  every  pepper  water,  which  is  the  Canarese  way  of 
preparing  it. 

Put  a  pollam  of  pepper  powder  in  a  sufficient 

AnotAer,    quantity    of   fresh    water ;    add    one*eighth    of   a 

measure     of   red  pulse,    and    boil  it     for    three 

hours ;  afterwards  strain,  in  some  tamarind  juice,  also  fried 

mustard,  cummin  seeds,  and  red  chillies. 

Take  one  pollam  of  pepper  and  some  red 
Another,  pulse  fried  in  ghee ;  grind  it  and  put  it  into 
a  sufficient  quantity  of  fresh  water,  and  boil  it 
over  a  good  fire  for  two  hours  ;  while  this  is  boiling,  boil 
separately  one-tenth  of  a  measure  of  brown  pulse  in  some 
water,  and  having  drawn  off  the  latter,  add  it  to  the  pep- 
per water,  which  is  to  be  allowed  to  boil  for  five  minutes 
more ;  then  put  in  cummin  seeds,  mustard,  and  coriander 
seeds  fried  in  ghee,  together  with  carapala  leaves,  and  five 
grains  of    assafoetida. 

TAMAKIND  FISH. 

Take  any  quantity  of  fish  and  split  it  down  the  back ; 
take  out  the  bone  and  score  it  in  the  way  fish  is  crimped ; 
sprinkle  fine  powdered  salt  over  it,  and  leave  it  for  a  day 
or  two  ;  wash  and  hang  it  out  in  the  sun ;  dissolve  some 
acid  tamarinds  in  vinegar  and  strain  off  the  liquor  ;  cut 
the  fish  into  small  pieces,  and  wrap  them,  covered  round 
with  the  tamarinds,  which  must  not  be  too  liquid;  put 
into  a  jar  or    other  vessel  and  cover   close. 

Clean  your  fish  well ;  cut  it  into  slices 
AnotAer  way.  crossways,  about  half,  or  three  quarters  of 
an  inch  thick ;  sprinkle  it  over  with  clean 
salt,  turning  it  occasionally,  and  let  the  juice  drain  oflf; 
in  twenty-four  hours  take  the  fish  and  dry  it  in  the  sun ; 
then  put  to  it  the  following  materials,  first  sprinkling  it 
well  with   vinegar  ;   boil  some  ripe  tamarinds  in  vinegar  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY. 


48» 


express  all  the  palp;  you  should  have  sufficient  to  coYtsr 
your  fishy  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  add  pounded  turmeric 
one  tolah,  two  tolahs  of  dried  pounded  chillies^  and  four 
tolahs  of  sliced  green  ginger,  with  four  table-spoonfuls  of 
vinegar;  pour  the  whole,  when  well  mixed,  over  the  fish 
and  cover  it  up.  It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  two  or  three 
days;  it  does  not  keep  long.  Salted  salmon  in  slices,  wash- 
ed and  dried  in  the  sun  and  then  covered  with  the  pre- 
paration of  tamarinds,  &c.  will  keep  a  long  time,  and  is 
superior  to  other  fish.  The  seer  fish  is  generally  used  on 
the   coast :    but  it  may  be  made  of  any   other. 

Ois. — If  required  for  keeping,  put  two  parts  vinegar 
with  one  of  tamarind  pulp  and  the  other  ingredients,  with 
a  few  cloves  of  garlic.  It  must  be  kept  in  a  well  closed 
jar  or  vessel.  * 


TSah,      .    .        14    Seer. 
Tunkrind  pulp,     *      « 
Green  ginger,       8  Tolahs. 


GvUc, 
Jhy  ehillies, 
Zemh, 
Turmeric, 
Vinegw,     - 
SalC  -    -    • 


1 
4 
4 
3  Tolahs. 

iSeer. 
Tolahs. 


a  little  water,   mix 
vinegar,  and  pour 


Anotier. 

Cut  the  fish  into  thick  slices  and 
sprinkle  it  well  with  jsalt;  let  it  re- 
main for  twenty-four  hours,  then  wipe 
and  place  it  in  the  sun  to  dry,  after 
which  place  it  in  a  dish  and  pour 
the  vinegar  over  it;  grind  up  sepa- 
lately   all  the   other  ingredients  with 

them  with  the   tamarind    pulp  and   the 

over  the    fish. 


P  U  L  L  0  JT  S. 

The  common  kind  are  prepared  with  meat,  rice,  dhall, 
wheat,  ghee,  and  spices-— such  as  cardamons,  cloves,  cin- 
namon, coriander  seeds,  black  pepper,  onions,  garlic,  salt, 
and  eurrypak  leaves;  others  again,  have  milk,  cream,  tyre, 
almonds,  raisins,  and  vegetables  added;  and  where  fish 
forms  the  puUow,  the  gravy  is  usually  made  with  meat 
for  the  after   dressing  of  the  rice.    It  is  therefore  necessary 


Digitized  by 


Google 


430 


INDIAN   D0VB8TIC  ECONOMY 


that  the  cook  should  be  able  to  judge  bow  much  water 
will  be  required  for  gravy,  using,  of  course,  less  whoe 
milk  and  tyre  are  to  be  added.  In  some  of  the  reoeiptSy 
the  word  *'  measure^'  of  water  will  be  found,  which  seems 
to  be  no  definite  quantity,  as  far  as  I  can  learn  it  means 
one  seer.  A  measure  on  the  coast  is  eight  oUucks^  and 
twenty  oUucks  are  equal  to  an  English  gallon;  bul  where 
the  word  is  used  in  the  Persian  receipts,  it  can  have  no 
such  meaning  as  to  quantity.  The  various  spices  when  to 
be  added  to  the  meat  or  gravy,  are  sometimes  termed 
'^  musalah"  which  literally  means  the  materials  forming 
any  mixture.  A  ''boghar''  is  also  constantly  directed  to 
be  given  to  meat,  gravy,  &c.,  in  all  the  receipts,  whether 
for  pullows,  curries,  or  what  not ;  the  meaning  is  explained 
elsewhere.  The  term  is  derived,  I  suspect,  from  the  word 
Bogharafy  to  fry.  Some  puUows  are  made  without  either 
fowl,  meat,  or  fish,  and  are  either  plain  or  sweet.  Amongst 
the  selections  taken  from  upwards  of  one  hundred  receipts, 
no  doubt  any  artist  of  common  ability  wUl  be  enabled,  by 
increasing  or  diminishing  the  materials,  to  produce  as  many 
varieties  as  pleases  his  fancy.  Most  excellent  pullows  may 
be  made  from  all  kinds  of  game ;  but  then  the  spices  must 
be  frugally  used,  so  as  not  to  overpower  the  fumes  of  the 
game. 


MOORGHABEE;  OS,  FOWL  PULLOW. 


Mutton,       -    - 

I    Pound, 

Fowl,       .    - 

1 

Eice,      -    -    - 

8    ounces. 

Onions,    -    - 

6    or    6 

Bgg-,    -    -    - 

3    or    4 

Bitter,    -   - 

\  Pound. 
10    or    U 

Black  pepper, 

Corns, 

Maee,    -    -    - 

4  Blades. 

Cloves,    -    - 

10    or    1» 

Cardamons,     • 

10    or    12 

Oreen  ginger, 

1  Tolah. 

Salt,-  -    .    - 

1  Dessert 

spoonful. 

Currypak  leates, 

2  or  8. 

Put  the  mutton,  cut  in  slices,  with 
four  onions  whole,  into  water  six  quarts ; 
boil  all  this  together  until  reduced  to 
one-third ;  take  it  off  the  fire ;  mash 
the  meat  in  the  liquor  and  strain 
through  a  towel  and  set  it  aside. 
Take  eight  ounces  of  rice;  wash  it 
well,  and  dry  by  squeeaing  it  firmly 
in  ^  towel ;  put  half  a  pound  of  but- 
ter into  a  saucepan,  and  melt  it;  fry 


Digitized  by 


Google* 


AND  OOOKBRT.  481 

in  it  a  handful  of  onions  sliced  lengthways  ;  when  they 
hare  become  of  a  brown  colour^  then  take  them  ont  and  lay 
aade ;  in  the  batter  that  remains,  fry  slightly  a  fowl  that 
has  been  previously  boiled;  then  take  out  the  fowl,  and  in 
the  same  butter  add  the  dry  rice  and  fry  it  a  little;  as 
the  batter  evaporates,  add  the  above  broth  to  it,  and  boil 
tiie  rice  in  it;  then  put  the  cloves,  cardamons,  pepper- 
corns and  mace  (be  cautious  not  to  put  too  much  of  the 
latter);  then  add  the  currypak  leaves  and  salt,  with  the 
green  ginger  eat  into  thin  slices ;  when  the  rice  is  suffi- 
ciently boiled,  remove  all  but  a  little  fire  from  underneath, 
and  place  some  on  the  pan  cover ;  if  the  rice  be  at  all 
hard,  add  a  little  water  to  it  and  put  into  it  the  fowl  to 
imbibe  a  flavor ;  then  cover  it  over  with  the  rice,  and 
serve  up,  garnished  with  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  either  in 
halves  or   quarters. 


KOOKRA  PULLOW. 

Mince  one-third  of  the  meat   very 
eFowi.^    6  fine    wilh    some    salt    and    coriander 

S^"*."-'-"|  ^^^'^  seeds  fried  in   ghee,     and   set   it   on 

®»«»    -  -  'f,,»,  one   side;   take  the  remainder   of  the 

CftHamoiu,  •  -  2    „  mutton    and    chop   it  up    fine ;   add 

JBkApeppir,'-8    "  half  a  tolah  of  the  green  ginger  with 

grittderseeds,  2To^s,  ^^^^    ^j   ^j^^    ^pj^^     ^^    ^^    ground 

o!L.'/."J2if''       together,  and  the  whites  of  the   egg 
^ginger,  -2  Tbiahs.        beaten    UP :    put    the    whole    into  a 

IjKy    -    -    -    I  Seer.  •$    > 

mortar,  and  pound  it  to  a  paste ; 
then  form  into  small  balls,  and  fry  them  in  ghee  ;  now 
best  np  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  some  onions  sliced, 
gionnd  green  gii^er,  and  some  of  the  spices,  adding  a  lit- 
tie  ghee;  heat  a  frying  pan  on  the  fire  with  some  ghee, 
and  put  the  mixtore  into  it ;  dress  it  as  you  would  an 
omelette;  then  sprinkle  a  little  saffron  over  it,  and  set  on 
one  side;  dean  your  fowl  well,  and  rul)  it  over  with  some 
lalt  and  the  juice  of  onions  and  green  ginger,  and  stuff 


Digitized  by 


Google 


432 


INDIAN   1H>UE8TIC   ECONOHT 


the  inside  with  the  minced  meat  and  tie  it  up  close ;  then 
put  it  on  the  spit ;  have  ready  some  saffron^  cloves,  and  car- 
damons  well  ground,  and  mix  with  the  tyre;  rub  some  over 
the  fowl,  and  continue  basting  it  with  the  remainder  till 
properly  roasted ;  parboil  the  rice  .in  water  with  some  dn- 
namon,  cloves,  cardamons,  and  black  pepper;  then  take 
another  sailcopan;  put  in  the  rice,  balls,  and  fried  eggs, 
with  some  gravy  from  the  fowl  and  ghee ;  cover  close  the 
saucepan,  and  set  it  to  simmer  until  the  rice  is  cooked  ; 
when  dish   it,   and  place   the  roast  fowl  in   the  centre. 

CHEWLAWOO   PULLOW- 


Bice,  -  - 
Ghee,  -  - 
Ciiuuuiioiii  - 
CloveB,  - 
CanUmont, 
Saflhtn, 


1  Seer. 

1  H 


Mince  or  cut  the  meat  into  small 
pieces,  and  give  it  a  boghar  with 
some  ghee  and  sliced  onions;  then 
add  the  I  green  ginger  and  the  rest 
of  the  onions  sliced;  pound  the  salt, 
saffron,  and  coriander  seeds  with  a 
small  quantity  of  water;  mix  the 
whole  together  and  fry  them;  par- 
boil the  rice  in  water,  and  then  take 
it  out  and  put  it  to  the  meat  with  a  little  ghee  and  the 
rest  of  the  spices  and  some  of  the  rice  water;  then  cover 
the  saucepan,  and  gently  boil  till  done.  Serve  the  pullow 
with  the  meat  over  the  rice. 


Coriander  seeds,  1  Tolah. 
Black  pepper,     4  Mashas. 
Cammin  seeds,  3      „ 
Salt,     .    .    .    S  Tolaht. 
Onions,  -    -    -  i  Seer. 


UKRUDGE   PULLOW. 


Capons,    -    •    S 
Meat,     ...  1  Seer. 

&"»• 
Rioe,  . 

Ohee,    - 

Onions, 

Black  pepper, 

Oreen  ginger,    1  Tolah. 

Saffron,    •    -    1  Hasha. 

Sslt  .    .    -    -  3  •l\)lahB. 

Garlic,  -    -    -   1    i  „ 

Cheonah  ilonr,  }  Sf er. 


Take  the  capons  and  clean  them 
well;  divide  them  down  the  middle 
of  the  back,  and  lay  them  flat ;  prick 
them  over  with  a  fork,  and  cover  the 
whole  with  ground  green  ginger,  gar- 
lic,'onions,  and  salt  mixed  with  the 
tyre ;  soak  them  in  this  for  four  hours  ; 
take  the  meat,  cut  it  into  slices,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


▲XD    COOXBKT.  433 

CiMMioD,    -  .  3  Madiis.     p^t  with  it  the  capoiw  and  the  chcn- 
CardAmoiia,  -  - 1     I  nah  dhall  with  as  much   water    as  is 

Goriukder  leeda,     1  Tolsh. 

neoessary  for  dressing  them,  and  to 
prepare  the  rice  in  after;  when  the  capons  are  done,  take 
them  out  and  boil  the  meat,  so  as  to  make  a  good  gravy : 
mash  it  up,  and  strain  through  a  cloth  into  a  saacepan, 
and  give  it  a  boghar  with  ghee  and  cloves,  seven  times; 
then  put  the  rice  to  it,  and  boil  till  it  is  dressed ;  spread 
in  a  separate  saucepan  a  little  of  the  boiled  rice  with  the 
spices,  and  place  the  capons  on  thid,  and  pour  over  them 
a  little  ghee  and  some  sliced  onions;  over  this  again,  place 
half  of  the  remaining  rice  with  thex  saffron  ground  up,  and 
more  ghee;  lastly,  put  the  remainder  of  the  rice,  with  a 
little  ghee  on  the  top;  cover  the  saucepan  well,  surround 
it  with  charcoal,  and  place  a  little  fire  on  the  lid,  and  let 
it  remain  for  one  hour. 


DUMNOWURDEE  PULLOW. 

Clean  and  wash  the  capon   or  fowl 

jSSSJ'' ."."."  1  Sew.  nicely;   then    prick    it    with    a  fork, 

^^•^  "-\    i    "  *^^    ^'^  ^^^  ^^^^^  following  ingredi- 

J^  ...  -I    M  ents    well  over    it,    washing   each  off 

OnioikB,   -  -  - 1    ^  successively  with  water :   first   the  ba^ 

Bmh,  '.'.'.  1    t>  Bu^t  ^^  ^^^  ground  anise,  and  last- 

c^in'sccds,'.!    "  ly  <^te  cummin   seeds;  then    take  two 

Oreen  ginger,  -    1    „  figg   ^nd   peel  them,  and  pound  them 

Figs,     -   .  No.  2    **  up   with   the  ginger,   garlic,   and  salt, 

BwriM^  . " . '  4    1*  of  each  one  tolah    weight,  adding    a 

cJI^^T'*.  2    ,"  li'^^e  ^a^^i  ^^  ^^^  ^^®'  ^^^  ^owl, 

Jmcerf2iinM8.  i^nd  Set    it  asidc    for    about   half  an 

Coria&der  seeds,  12  Mashu, 

CardAmons,  •  - 1    „  hour   or    80 ;   then  place   a    saucepan 

CinnsSion.  -'  -  1    "„  on  the   fire,  with  a  little   ghee ;  slice 

one-fourth  .seer  of  onions,  and  fry 
them  in  it  to  a  nice  brown ;  take  them  out  and  mix  them 
up  with  four  tolahs  weight  of  chopped  almonds  (blanched), 
and  the  same  of  raisins  and  pounded  sugar;  stuff  this  into 


Digitized  by 


Google 


434  INDIAN  Donamc  koonokt 

tlie  fowl ;  sew  it  up  and  put  it  on  the  spit ;  whilst  roast- 
ing, ^  baste  it  with  the  following  sauce:  two  tolahs*  wei^^ 
of  blanched  almonds  ground  into  a  paste,  with  a  little 
water,  a  table-spoonful  of  cream,  one-fourth  of  a  seer  of 
coarse  tjrci  one*eighth  seer  of  milk,  and  the  juice  of  two 
limes,  pounded  cardamons,  doves,  and  cinnamon,  aboot 
one  masha,  and  a  little  ghee;  mix  the  whole  well  to- 
gether; cut  the  meat  into  thin  slices  and  put  it  into  a 
saucepan,  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water  to  boil  it 
well;  add  your  ginger,  garlic,  coriander  seeds^  onions, 
and  salt,  all  ground,  about  one  tolah  weight  of  each, 
and  put  it  with  the  meat;  when  it  is  thoroughly  done, 
strain  off  the  gravy  through  ^a  coarse  cloth  and  press  it 
well;  then  return  it  into  the  saucepan,  and  boghar  it 
with  a  little  ghee  and  doves  twice;  boil  the  milk,  and 
mix  it  well  with  the  gravy ;  parboil  the  rice  in  plain  water  ; 
then  put  it  with  the  milk  and  gravy  and  boil  till  it  is 
done;  when  it  is  quite  dressed,  take  another  saucepans 
and  put  in  the  roasted  capon;  sprinkle  it  with  some  sliced 
fried  onions,  a  few  cloves,  cardamons,  and  cinnamon ;  take 
about  one-fourth  of  the  boiled  rice  and  colour  it  with 
saffron  and  put  it  with  the  fowl  and  place  the  remaining 
rice  over  it;  warm  the  rest  of  the  ghee,  and  pour  it* over 
the  whole;  close  the  saucepan;  warm  the  pullow  tho- 
roughly and  serve  it  up.  A  thin  cake  made  of  flour,  is 
sometimes  put  in  the  centre  of  the  rice,  and  when  it  is 
sufficiently  done  the  pullow  is  served. 


UKHNEE,  OB  KID  PULLOW. 

Wash  the    rice   well    and    keep   it 

Bwf;  ".*•"-    4  Seen.  soaked    in    water;  slaughter  the    kid 

GhS.  ".*."."  1     I  ^^^  ^vide  it  into  pieces  of  a  quarter 

^^JJlSSliiid}    i    ,  ^f  *  seer  each;— the  beef  likewise  to 

MSkT^.  .     *  ^^  ^^^  ^^^  ®^*^  pieces;   wash  them 

S***"^  •,». )  ••.  4  Chit-  together  several  times,  and  put  both 

lime  juice,  )         ^*^"'  on    the  fire  with   six    seers  of  water, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOORT. 


435 


Omriic.  .  .  4Mash«,  clearing  it  at  intervals  of  the  scum; 
Salt,  ...  2  Chit- .  When  the  meat  becomes  tender,  heat 
another  vessel  on  the  fire,  and  put 
in  it  four  mashas  of  ghee ;  when  it  is  qnite  hot,  add  the 
'whole  of  the  garlic  and  a  part  of  the  cardamons  and  mix 
it  with  the  couteuts  of  the  first  vessel  (e,  u  the  meat  and 
the  gravy,}  and  allow  the  whole  to  be  well  cooked,  until 
the  gravy  is  reduced  to  one-half  the  quantity ;  then  heat 
in  another  vessel  some  ghee  and  a  few  cardamons,  and 
strain  the  gravy  in  it  through  a  towel  and  keep  it  for  a 
short  time  on  the  fire;  select  the  pieces  of  the  kid  and 
wash  them  in  some  water  with  the  butter-milk  and  one- 
third  of  the  salt;  take  then  the  whole  of  the  ghee,  and 
heat  it,  and  put  in  it  the  remaining  cardamons  and  cloves 
— also  half  of  the  gravy  and  the  pieces  of  the  kid,  and 
let  it  boil  up  two  or  three  times ;  put  in  half  the  remain* 
ing  salt  and  the  lime-juice,  and  continue  it  on  the  fire  until 
the  gravy  is  properly  mixed  with  the  ghee  ;  then  remove 
it ;  mix  the  bruised  almonds  with  the  cream  and  milk,  and 
put  the^  whole  with  the  meat  of  the  kid  and  let  it  stand  by 
the  side  of  the  fire.  Now  take  the  remaining  half  of  the  gravy 
and  boil  the  rice  in  it,  adding  to  it  the  rest  of  the  salt ; 
after  it  is  half  cooked,  strain  off  the  gravy,  and  put  the 
rice  into  the  vessel  containing  the  meat  and  place  it  on 
a  charcoal  fire,  taking  care  to  close  the  mouth  of  the  ves-» 
sel  with  some  dough,  and  in.  about  twenty- five  minutes  it 
will  be  ready. 

PLAIN  KID  PULLOW. 


Rice.     .    .    - 

1  Seer. 

OhM,  .     .     . 

1 

Kid,      .    .  No.  I 

Cmm,    .    . 

.  4.  Chit- 

ta€ks. 

Hilk,    .    .    . 

^ 

Onions,  .    . 

n 

G«en  ginger, 

QOTM,      .     . 

4  Mashas. 

OtrdnmOBs,    . 

n 

Zeerah,    .    . 

>i 

Divide  the  kid  into  pieces  of  a  quar- 
ter of  a  seer  each,  and  wash  them 
several  times  ;  wash  also  the  rice '  well, 
and  let  it  soak  in  water  ;  bruise  the 
garlic  and  ginger  with  a  part  of  the 
salt  in  some  butter-milk,  and  lay  it 
over  the  meat ;  heat  the  ghee  in   a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


436 


INDUN   BOllISnC   ECONOMY 


bSIw  milk    t  Stn^'    •^^^P'^^   *^^  P'^^  ^  *^®  onions  sliced ; 
SaJt^  .   .  .  2  Chitl       when    they  are    brown^    add    the    meat 

tacki. 

and  fry  it  well;  then  add  the  cream 
and  milk.;  after  which,  the  rice,  salt,  cloves,  cardamous, 
and  zeerah  ground,  with  as  much  water  as  will  dress  the 
rice ;  when  the  rice  is  nearly  done,  remove  the  pan  from 
the  fire,  and  set  it  by  the  side,  only  for  about  twenty  or 
thirty   minutes. 

KITCHEBIB  PULLOW. 


Meat,    .    .    . 

Sper. 

Moongkadhall, 

n 

Bice,    .    .     . 

i» 

Ghee,      .    .    . 

tt 

Salt/  .    .    , 

I^dahf. 

Green  riuger, 
Coriuider  seeda, 

V 

V 

Cinnamon,     . 

■MMhas. 

Cloves,    .    .     . 

1  i 

n 

Cardamons,    , 

* 

Cnmmih  seeds, 

Black  pepper. 

H 

Onions,    .    . 

» 

Cut  the  meat  in  large  slices,  and 
give  a  boghar  in  ghee,  with  some 
sliced  onions,  and  add  to  it  some 
pounded  green  ginger,  onions,  salt, 
and  coriander  seeds;  mix  these  to- 
gether, and  boil  in  water  till  the  meat 
is  tender;  then  strain  the  gravy,  and  ' 
give  a  boghar  to  the  meat  and  gravy 
with  cloves  in  ghee;  put  the  meat 
into  another  saucepan  with  some  cummin  seeds  and  spices ; 
soak  the  moongka  dhall  and  rice  in  water  for  an  hour 
and  wash  it  well ;  give  a  boghar  to  it  in  ghee  with  aome 
sliced  onions;  then  fry  it  for  a  few  minutes  and  put  it 
with  the  gravy  and  boil  till  the  rice  and  dhall  are  dressed ; 
when  done,  put  it  over  the  meat  with  the  rest  of  the  spices, 
and  then  pour  over  it  some  ghee;  cover  close  the  sauce* 
pan,  and  boil  them  together  till  the  whole  is  ready,  which 
will  be  in  a  few    minutes. 


Meat  .   .    . 
Rice,    .    .    . 
Ghee,    .    .    . 
Kuddoo  weigh- 
ing about, 
Onioni, 
Tomerir 


.  U    Seer. 
^    .    .     IMMha. 


KUDDOO  PULLOW. 

Take  three*fourths  seer  of  the  meat 
and  cut  it  into  slices,  and  put  it  in- 
to a  saucepan  with  water,  some  sliced 
onions,  and  green  ginger  ;  pound  some 
salt  and  coriander  seeds,  with  a  little 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKSBT*  437 

BMpepper,     1  Hatha.        gj^^g .     ^ij    ^hcse  together,    and  boU 
Gbrea, .   ,  .  il    "  till  the  meat    is  tender ;  then   strain 

CiidaiDOiis^  •     ^Y     » 

3iiek  Cnxmnin  the   gravj    into    another   vessel,   and 

Green  ginger,    1  Toiah.        give  a  boghar  to  the  meat  and  gravy 
lSe,*/NQ/i    "  ^^   S^^^f  ^'^^'^   soD^®  cloves;   separate 

the  meat  from  the  gravy,  and  pnt  it 
into  another  saucepan  with  some  cummin  seeds  and  spices ; 
parboil  the  rice  in  plain  water ;  then  mix  it  with  the  gravy, 
and  boil  till  done ;  when  done,  put  it  over  the  meat  with 
a  little  ghee,  and  simmer  it  for  a  few  minutes ;  cover  the 
saucepan  close  and  set  it  near  the  fire ;  mince  the  remain- 
ing meat,  give  a  boghar  to  it  in  ghee  with  some  fried  onions 
and  salt,  ground  coriapder  seeds,  and  a  little  water,  and 
boil  it  till  the  gravy  and  ghee  are  well  mixed ;  peel  and 
clean  the  kuddoo ;  take  out  the  inside,  prick  it  with  a 
fork,  and  rub  it  over  with  a  mixture  of  salt  and  saffron ; 
add  the  juice  of  a  lime  with  the  rest  of  the  spices  and  the 
minced  meat  and  stuff ;  then  fry  it  in  ghee  till  it  is  of  a 
bright  brown  colour«  When  you  serve  the  pullow,  put 
the  kuddoo  over  it,   and  the  gravy  round  it. 

A  large  cucumber  may  be  substituted  for  the  pumpkin. 

MTHE  PULLOW  LOWABDAE. 

Clean  the  fish  well,  and  cut  it  into 
thick  slices  and  dip  it  into  the  gingly 
oil  (or  sweet  oil),  and  let  it  remain 
for  half  an  hour ;  then  wash  it  off  and 
rub  it  over  with  the  ground  basun 
flour,  and  wash  it  again  in  water; 
after  which  prick  the  fi«h  with  a  fork ; 
bruise  some  onions,  green  ginger, 
salt,  and  spices,  with  a  little  tyre, 
and  cover  the  fish  with  it ;  then  fry 
it  in  ghee  of  a  nice  brown   colour; 

after  which,  give  it  a  boghar  with  ghee  and  sliced  onions ; 

then  fry  some  sliced    onions  separately  with    a  few  cloves 


Booe  or  other 

Firfi.    .    . 

2  Seers. 

ll«t,    .    .    . 

H      n 

Rice,.    .    . 

1    „ 

Ghee.    .    .    . 

}    » 

OaioBt,    .    , 

.1    » 

ixmuner  seeiii 

.  1  Tolaht. 

Blanched  a]monda,40nooes. 

(Saaamoii,    • 

6  Madias. 

CardunoQB,. 

s   ,. 

CUn^.    .    . 

8    n 

Sick  pepper, 

3    „ 

Bamn,    .    . 

.STolaha. 

Gingly  oil.    . 

8    „ 

Wt,.    .    .    . 

♦       M 

Q^OiCr      .     . 

1     n 

Digitized  by 


Google 


438 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 


and  a  little  garlic^  ivhich  put  with  the  fish — ^also  the  almonds 
and  coriander  seeds  ground,  with  a  little  rice  water^  and 
simmer  till  it  forms  a  sauce  ;  then  remove  it  from  the  fire  ; 
cut  the  meat  into  slices  ;  wash  it  well^  and  put  it  into  a 
saucepan  with  the  usual  quantity  of  water,  some  sliced 
onions,  green  ginger,  pounded  salt,  and  coriander  seeds, 
and  boil  till  thoroughly  done  ;  put  the  meat  with  the  gravy 
into  a  coarse  cloth  ;  press  and  strain  the  gravy  into  a  ba- 
sin and  gave  a  boghar  to  it  in  ghee  with  cloves ;  parboil 
the  rice  as  usual ;  then  mix  it  with  the  gravy,  and  boil  till 
the  rice  is  dressed  ;  put  the  rice  into  another  saucepan, 
and  add  to  it  the  spices ;  cover  the  saucepan  close,  and  let 
it  stand  on  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  when  it  will  be  fit 
for  use.  When  you  serve  the  puUow  put  the  fish  over  it 
with  the  gravy,  A  chasneedar  may  be  made  in  the  usual 
manner  by  dressing  the  fish  and  rice  separately  with  lime 
syrup. 

MULGOBAH  PULLOW. 


Cut  the  meat  in  large  sUces,  and 
put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  some 
onions  and  green  ginger  sliced;  pound 
some  salt  and  coriander  seeds  with  a 
little  ghee;  add  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  water  and  boil  the  whole  till  the 
meat  is  tender;  separate  the  gravy 
from  the  meat,  and  mix  in  it  the 
tyre ;  stir  it  well,  and  strain  it  into 
another  vessel;  take  three  tolahs*  weight  of  almonds,  and 
grind  them  with  a  little  rice-water  and  add  them  to  the  • 
gravy ;  give  a  boghar  to  the  meat  and  gravy  with  some 
ghee  and  cloves ;  let  it  boil  up  once ;  remove  the  meat 
from  the  saucepan  and  put  it  into  another  vessel,  with  the 
ground  cummin  seeds  and  spices;  fry  the  rest  of  the  al- 
monds in  ghee ;  grind  and  put  them  to  ^  the  meat ;  mix 
all   together  and    fry  for  a  few     minutes;  parboil  the  rice 


MnttOD,    .    , 
Tyre,.    .    . 
Onions,     .    , 
Bice,  .    .     . 
Green  ginger, 
Salt,    .    .     . 
Almondi,    . 
Cinnamon,    . 
CloTes,  .    .  . 
Cardamons.  . 
Black  pepper, 
Commm  seeds, 
Qhm,   .    .    . 


1    Seer. 

i     " 
1     - 

1  Tolah. 
3     „ 

6     „ 

2  Maahia. 

\  : 
I  - 

k    Seer. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  439 

in   plain  water;  then  put  it    to  the  meat   and     the  gravy^ 

with    a  little    ghee;  cover  the    pan  close,    and    simmer    it 
gently  until  it  is  done. 


SHERAZEE  PULLOW- 


ifMt    •  -  -  1   Seer.  ^ake  three-fourths  seier  of  the  meat 


OEee.  -  -  ?^4  *"^  ^^^  ^^  ^^  ^8®   slices;   put  it 

^^^.  '  '  \  -J,,  into  a  saucepan  with  a  proper  quan- 
i^nicots  ibied,  2  «  '  tity  of  water  with  the  onions  and 
Afanond^**.  *.  \    )'>  g^^g^^  sliccd,  slso  some  salt  and  cor* 

o^lLn,'  ".   2  hI^.      ^^^  8«eds»  ground  in  a  little  ghee;  ' 
SSmiom  '  -  '  1     "  ^^^^  *^^    *^®    ^^   ^^    tender ;    then 

^Mk  pepper,      1     ,  strain  off  the  gravy  into  another  sauce- 

Rice,  ...     1  Seer.  pan,  and  give  a  boghar  to  the  meat 

with  the  cloves  in  ghee;  pound  the 
cummin  seeds  and  a  part  of  the  spices,  and  put  it  with 
the  meat  into  another  saucepan ;  parboil  the  rice.,  in  plain 
water;  remove  it  and  put  it  with  the  gravy,  and  boil  till 
the  rice  is  done;  then  place  it  over  the  meat  with  some 
ghee;  cover  the  saucepan  close,  and  let  it  simmer  gently 
for  an  hour;  mince  the  remainder  of  the  meat  and  give 
a  boghar  to  it  in  ghee;  add  some  pounded  salt  and.  cori- 
ander seeds  with  a  little  water,  and  boil  it  gently;  when 
done  and  the  ghee  and  gravy  well  mised,  put  in  the  raisins, 
pistachios,  apricots,  blanched  almonds,  and  spices,  with  the 
white  of  the  eggs  beaten  up,  and  let  it  stand  'on  the  side 
of  the  fire  till  cooked;  then  fry  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  in 
a  little  ghee,  and  all  is  ready.  When  you  serve  the  pul- 
low,  spread  the  minced  meat,  &c.  over  it^  and  fried  eggs 
on   the  top  of  that. 

To  make  a  chasneedar  of  it,  prepare  a  syrup  as  before 
directed;  mix  two-thirds  of  it  with  the  rice  while  it  is 
boiling  with  the  meat,  and  the  other  one-third  to  be  add- 
ed with  the  minced  meat   previous  to  dressing. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


440 


INDIAN  SOHEsnC  ECONOlfT 


LOOKMAH    PULLOW. 


JAfiftty    -  -  2  SefiTS* 

D«^       -    -No,  2 
Aimonda,    -   -      ^  Seen. 
Aaasini,    -    - 
OnioM,  -    -    . 
PiBtachios,     •   - 
Oreen  ginger* 
Bice,  -    -    -    - 
Coriander  aeedi. 
Boasted  Cfaeniuai, 

Bhall,    -    . 
Hytha  flou^ 
Ghee,    -    -    - 
CinnamoDi  -    • 
Black  pepper, 
Cloves,    -    - 
Cardamom, 
Black  commin 


Salt  .    . 


2T0lAh8. 

1    Seer. 
4MBehaa. 

I  : 

3  Tofahs. 


Cut  half  the  meat  in  large  pieces, 
and  put  it  into  a    sancepan  with   a 
proper    quantity  of  water,    a  portion 
of  sliced    onions^   green   ginger,  salt, 
and    pounded    coriander    seeds;    mix 
these  together,  and  hoil  till  the  meat 
is  tender;  strain  the  gravy  into  ano* 
ther  saucepan,  and  give  a  boghar  to 
the   meat  in  ghee    with  some  cloves, 
pounded    cummin  seeds,  and  spices; 
parboil  the  rice  in  plain  water ;  then 
put   it  with  the  gravy  and  let  it  be 
thoroughly  cooked;   when   done,   put 
it  over  the  meat  with  some  ghee ;  cover  close    the  sauce- 
pan and  boil  it  till  the  whole  is  dressed   on  a  gentle  fire. 
Mince  the  other  seer  of  meat,  place  i^  in  a  saucepan  on 
the  fire^  with  about  five  tolahs'  weight  of  ghee,  some  sliced 
onions^     and  fry    them ;  when  ^the  onions    are    sufficiently 
brown,  give  a  boghar  to  the  meat  with  ghee ;  then  add  to 
it  a   little  salt^   pounded  coriander  seeds  and   water,  and  boil 
till  the  meat  is  nearly  done;   take  it  out  and  put  with   it 
some  bruised  green  ginger^  raisins,   almonds,   and  the  chen- 
nah  dhall  roasted ;  mix  these  together  in  a  mortar,  and  m^Jce 
it  into  a  paste  with  the  white  of  the  eggs   and  mytha ;    cut 
the  almonds  and   pistachio  nuts  into  pieces,    and   fry  then& 
in  ghee.    Take   as  much  of  the  pounded   meat  as  will  form 
a  ball  the  size  of  a  small  lime,   and  put  into  it  some  of 
the    almonds    and  pistachio     nuts;    continue  this    till  the 
whole  is  finished;     then  cover    each  with   the  yolk  of  the 
eggs^   and  fry  them  in  ghee  of  a  nice  brown  colour ;  take 
a  little  gravy  with  the  remaining  ground  spices,  and  give 
a    boghar  to  it  in  ghee,  and  put  this  with  the   balls   and 
simmer  till  the   gravy  is  nearly    reduced.    When  you  serve 
the  puUoW;  place  the  balls  on  the  top  and  the  gravy  round  it. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKBRY.  441 


KOONDUN  PULLOW. 
^  ^  ,  _  Cut  the  meat    into    slices  :  put  it 

Meat,     -    -    -    1  Seer.  '    '^ 

Eggs,  -  -  -  -  6  into  a  saucepan  with  water,  some  oni- 

Sait,   -"-"-"- 3  Toiahs.      ons,   and   green  ginger  sliced  ;  pound 
Onioni*'?"- '- 1  ^^      ^ome  salt    and    coriander    seeds  ;  add 

ciores,  -  -  -    1     »  then    strain    the    gravy    into    another 

Coriuider,  .  .  1  Toiah.  sauccpan  ;  give  a  boghar  to  the  meat 
^oimnift  Meds,  -^  1  ^J^  ^th  some  ghee  and  cloves  ;  mince 
half  the  meat,  and  mix  with  it  some 
of  the  spices,  salt,  and  suet,  and  pound  these  together  in 
a  mortar  to  a  paste ;  boil  the  five  eggs  hard,  take  off  the 
shells,  and  cover  them  with  the  pounded  meat ;  baste,  fry 
them  to  a  nice  brown  in  ghee,  and  keep  them  on  one  side ; 
pat  the  rest  of  the  meat  into  another  Saucepan  with  the 
cummin  seeds  and  spices,  and  warm  it ;  then  parboil  the 
rice  in  plain  water  ;  take  it  out  and  add  to  it  the  gravy, 
Ixnling  it  till  the  rice  is  dressed  ;  when  done,  put  it  over 
the  meat  and  let  it  boil  for  one  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then 
put  in  the  fried  eggs,  and  pour  over  all  a  little  ghee ;  cover 
dose  the  saucepan,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  a  few  mi- 
nuteSi  when  it  will  be    ready    to  serve. 

K  you  wish  to  make  a  chasneedar,  take  sugar,  lime- 
juice,  and  water  as  before  directed,  and  make  a  syrup ; 
fake  half  of  the  syrup  and  put  it  with  the  meat  and  the 
fried  eggs  over  it,  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes ;  mix  the 
remaining  syrup  with  the  gravy  and  boil  the  rice  in  it  and 
put  over  the  meat ;  then  cover  close  the  saucepan  and  • 
boil  till  done  ;  otherwise,  put  the  fried  eggs  into  the  syrup, 
and  let  them  remain  in  it  for  about  twenty  minutes; 
then  take  them  out ;  mix  the  syrup  with  the  gravy,  and 
boil    the    rice    in    it.    When    you  serve    the    puUow,  place 

the   eggs  over  the    rice. 

.  H  8 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


442 


INDIAN   DOVESnO  KCONOUY 


GHEELANEE  PULLOW. 


•    1    Sen. 


Meat,    . 

Milk,.    . 

'l>re,     . 

Kice,  -    • 

Ghee,    - 

CiniMinoii, 

Cloves, ...    8      „ 

Cudunom,  •    -  1       » 

Coriander,      -     2  Tolahs. 

Cnminm  aaedi,     1  Maiha. 

Almomda,    •        h  Seer. 

Salt,    ...     8  Tblahi. 

Black  pepper,      4  Mathaa, 

Onions,     -    -     i  Seer. 

Green  ginger,  -    1  Tblah, 


Cat  the  meat  as  usual^  and  pat  it 
into  a  saacepan  with  a  sufficient  qaaa- 
tity  of  water;  add  the  onions  and 
green  ginger  sliced ,  with  some  salt 
and  coriander  seeds  ponnded,  and  a 
little  ghee ;  boil  these  together  till 
the  meat  is  tender ;  then  separate  the 
gray;  from  the  meat  and  take  half 
of  it  and  mix  with  it  the  tyre  and  a 
quarter  seer  of  milk ;  strain  this  into 
a  basin,  then  add  a  little  ground  rice  with  water  and  mix 
in  it  ;  give  a  boghar  to  the  same  with  cloves  and  ghee  ; 
then  put  in  the  meat  with  half  of  the  spices ;  grind  the 
almonds  and  put  them  also  with  the  meat ;  boil  it  till  the 
gravy  is  nearly  reduced  ;  then  take  it  from  the  fire.  Par- 
boil the  rice  in  plain  wato ;  take  it  out  and  put  to  it  the 
other  remaining  gravy  with  the  cummin  seeds  and  curry 
stuff  pounded^  and  boil  till  the  rice  is  cooked ;  then  pour 
over  it  the  other  quarter  seer  of  milk ;  cover  the  sauce- 
pan; and  let  it  stand  on  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes.  When 
you  serve  the   pullow,  put  the  meat   and  gravy  over  it. 

If  you  wish  to  make  a  thydar  when  dressing  the  meat 
with  the  tyre  and  milk,  put  the  rice  in  it  (after  it  has 
been  well  boiled  in  the  gravy,)  with  a  little  ghee  and  milk ; 
cover  the  saucepan  and  gently  simmer  for  an  hour,  then 
serve  it  up. 


HUR    HUR  PULLOW. 


Eice,    -    - 
Dhall,.    . 
Ghee,    -    - 
Onions,    - 
Cinnamon,  - 
Clovw,    -    • 
Cardamons, 
Salt,    .    . 


1  Seer. 


3  Mashas. 
1       » 

1  .. 

2  Tolaha. 


Wash  the  dhall  well  and  put  it 
into  a  saucepan  of  water,  and  boil  it 
till  it  is  thoroughly  done  ;  take  another 
saucepan  and  put  into  it  half  of  the 
ghee,  some  sliced  onions,  and  irj 
them  well ;  when  the  onions  are  per* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKE&T.  443 

fectly  brown^  put  in  the  spices  and  dhall  and  fry  them 
together ;  soak  the  rice  in  water  for  an  hour  and  wash  it 
weU;  then  put  >  it  over  the  dhall  with  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  warm  water,  and  boil  them  together;  when  done*  pour 
in  a  little  ghee,  and  let  it  simmer  on  a  slow  fire  for  a  few 
minutes. 

The  chennah  and  moongka  dhall  puUows  are  made  in 
the  same  way,  and  are  eaten  with  Quoormah,  which  is 
prepared  as  follows : — 

Take  one  seer  of  meat,  one-fourth  seer  of  ghee^  one- 
fourth  seer  of  tyre^  two  mashas  of  cinnamon,  one  masha 
of  cloves^  one  masha  of  cardamons,  one-eighth  seer  of 
onions,  one  and  a  half  tolahs  of  green  ginger,  one  and 
a  half  tolahs  of  garlic,  and  four  limes.  Gut  the  meat  in 
slices  and  rub  it  over  with  the  sliced  green  ginger, 
garlic,  tyrCj  and  salt  ground  together^  and  let  it  remain 
for  two  hours;  set  a  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  put  in 
the  whole  quantity  of  ghee  with  some  sliced  oniony,  and 
fry  them ;  when  the  onions  are  brown,  add  the  spices  and 
the  meat  with  a  little  water  and  lime-juice ;  mix  these 
together,  and  dress  till  the  meat  is  tender  and  the  gravy 
dried  up. 

KOOLAH  SANTHOON  NEGAMUTH  PULLOW. 

Boil  the  milk  till  it  is  reduced  to 
one  half;  strain  the  mangoe  pulp  in- 
to a  basin  and  add  the  milk  and 
cream,  stirring  them  well  together ;  sift 
the  sugar-candy;  grind  the  musk  and 
saffron  in  a  little  rose  water  and  mix 
the  whole  together ;  soak  the  rice 
in  water,  wash  it  well,  and  boil  it  properly;  when  done, 
place  a  layer  in  a  deep  dish,  pour  some  of  the  mangoe  cus- 
tard over  it,  then  more  rice  and  mangoe,  and  so  continue 
till  the   whole  is   finished. 


Bice,    -    -    - 

1 

Seer. 

llangt)e  pnlp, 

•weet,  -   - 

.  1 

« 

Cnam,  -  -    - 

\ 

»* 

MUk.     .    - 

-t 

» 

Sagar  candy 

pounded,  • 

A 

» 

Saffron,-    . 

Masli 

Mask,       .    . 

i 

„ 

Digitized  by 


Google 


444 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 


The  receipt  says  a  little  ghee  is  to  be  poured  over  the 
custard,  but  I  hardly  think  such  would  be  relished  by  any 
but  natives;   even  the  musk  might  be  omitted. 


I  Seer. 

1  „ 


%  '  '  '  I    » 

ir,    -    -    -  I     „ 
,    -    -    -     I  Toiah. 


Meat, 

Rice, 

OnioiM, 

Ghee, 

Sagar, 

Salt,    • 

Ornea  ginger,     1 

Cinnamoii,  -    -  2  Mashas.  - 

Cloves,     -     -    1      „ 

CTardamons,  -      1     „ 

Curiander  seeds,  1  Tolah. 

Black  cummin 

seeds,    .    .     3  Mashas. 
Limes,    ...  1  Seer, 
rine^ple,    -   1|     ^ 


UNUNASS  PULLOW. 

Pare  off  the  riud  of  the  pine-apple 
and  cut  into  slices;  put  one-half  in 
water  and  boil  the  other  half  until 
soft;  make  a  syrup  with  the  limes, 
sugar,  and  a  sufficiency  ^f  water,  and 
put  tlie  pine-apple  slices  into  it,  and 
boil  them  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour; 
then  remove  the  fruit  with  a  little  of 
the  syrup  and  set  on  one  side.  Cut 
the  meat  into  slices  and  put  it  into 
a  saucepan  with  a  proper  quantity  of  water,  some  sliced 
onions,  green  ginger,  pounded  salt,  and  coriander  seeds, 
with  a  Itttle  ghee ;  boil  them  well  together  and  strain  off 
the  gravy ;  boghar  the  meat  in  ghee  with  cloves ;  take  the 
other  half  of  the  pine-apple  with  the  cummin  seeds  and 
the  ground  spices  and  the  syrup;  boil  the  whole  until  the 
syrup  is  dried  up  ;  boil  the  rice  as  usual  with  the  gravy 
from  the  meat;  then  put  it  over  the  meat  in  another  sauce- 
pan, and  let  it  stand  near  the  fire  for  a  short  time,  when 
pour  over  some  ghee,  and  cover  it  close.  When  you  serve 
the  pullow,  dress  it  with  ihh  pine-apples  on  the  top  and 
around   the  dish. 


Meat,    - 
Bice,  -    - 
Ohec,    -    < 
Plantains, 
Onions,  • 
Limes, 


^jUt, 
Cinnamon, 
Cloves, 
Cardamons, 


KALA  PULLOW. 

Cut  the  meat  as  usual  and  put  it 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  proper  quan* 
tity  of  water  and  some  sliced  oni- 
ons  and  green  ginger  pounded,  some 
salt  and  coriander  seeds  with  a  little 
ghee  ;  boil  this  together  till  the  meat 
is  done;   then   strain   the    gravy   into 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COO&E&Y. 


445 


Gnn  ^ger,     2  ToUhi.       ^  separate  saucepan,  and  give  a  bo- 
2 


Cunmin  seeds,     1  Masha, 


ghar  to  the  meat  with  cloves  in   ghee  ; 

take  half  a  seer  of  sugar  with  a  small 
qaaniity  of  water  and  the  juice  of  two  limes,  which  make 
into  a  clear  syrup ;  add  this  also  to  the  gravy ;  put  the 
meat  into  another  saucepan  with  some  cummin  seeds, 
spices,  and  a  little  gravy ;  mix  these  together  and  boil  it 
till  the  gravy  is  reduced ;  parboil  the  rice  in  plain  water 
and  mix  it  into  the  gravy,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  done,  and 
put  it  over  the  meat  and  boil  them  together  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour ;  then  pour  over  all  some  ghee ;  cover  close  the 
saucepan  and  boil  it  on  a  gentle  fire;  take  the  remaining 
one-fourth  seer  of  sugar  with  a  small  quantity  of  water 
and  the  juice  of  a  lime  and  make  it  into  a  clear  syrup ; 
cat  each  plantain  lengthways  in  four  pieces  and  put  them 
in  the  symp,  and  boil  till  done.  When  you  serve  the 
puUow,  put   the  plantains  and  the  gravy  over  it. 


SHOLAH  PULLOW, 


Divide  the  meat  into  equal  slices ; 
place  a  saucepan  on  the  fire,  with  a 
little  ghee,  some  sliced  onions,  and 
fry  them  brown;  put  in  the  meat 
and  fry  it  till  the  gravy  is  well  mixed 
with  the  ghee,  then  put  with  it  the 
three  sorts  of  dhall  and  coriander 
seeds;  cut  the  turnips  and  beet-root 
into  slices ;  shred  fine  the  palluk 
greens,  and  put  the  whole  with  the 
meat  and  a  sufficient  quantity  of  wa- 
ter, and  boil  it  gently  until  the  meat 
is  done ;  then  take  it  out  and  strain 
the  gravy  into  another  saucepan ;  bo- 
the  meat  in -ghee  with  cloves,  and  add  to  it  the 
cummin  seeds  and  spices ;  dress  the  rice  as  usual  with  the 
gravy  and  cinna\non;   then  place  it  over  the  meat;   and  the 


Kid  or  mutton,  1  Seer. 
Rice,  -  .  .  1  „ 
Ghee,  -  -  -  i  „ 
Onions,  -  -  f  » 
Jfnvpa,  -'in 
Best-root,  -  -  ♦  .. 
Palluk  greens, 
KooDffka 

Jutoorka 

dha]], 
Cfaennah. 

>  dhall, 
CiBnftmon,     • 
Clores,         •)      -, 
Caidsmons,)^*       » 
Blsck  pepper,     1       „ 
Coriander  seeds,  1    Tolah. 
Green  ginger,     2       „ 
Cummin  seeds,  4  Maahas. 
Salt,   .    .    .     3    Tolahs. 
Gtriie,    .    -       1       „ 


'ca.J 


4  Mashas. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


446 


INDIAN    DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 


vegetables  on  the  top;  poor  a  little  ghee  over  the  whole; 
cover  close  the  saucepan,  and  simmer  it  gently  for  a  short 
time. 


KHAI8HGHEB  PULLOW. 


1    Seer. 


! 


Found  the  sugar-candy  and  make 
it  into  a  clear  syrup  ;  soak  the  rice 
in  water  for  an  hour  and  dean  it 
well;  then  put  it  into  a  saacepaa 
with  the  spices  and  ghee,  and  try  it 
a  little;  grind  the  musk  with  the 
rose  water,  and  pou^  it  with  the  syrup 
on  the  rice  and  boil  it  till  the  rioe 
is  done ;  colour  the  almonds  and  pis- 
tachio   nuts    with    saffron,   and    fry 

them  with  the  raisins  in  ghee ;   when  you  serve  the  pul- 

low,   put  them  over  it. 


Bice,   -    - 
Ghee,      -    - 
Sugar  candy, 
EoM  water,    •  | 
CiBnainODy    -     » 
Cloves,        ]      I 

Blanched    ^ 
almonda,  | 

^^^     [-eUChitUck. 
Baisini        J 
•toned,    J 
Mask,    .    .    -  i  Masha. 
Saffron,    -    -    I        « 


SAUE  PULLOW. 

Slaughter  and  skin  the  kid;  take 
out  the  inside  and  cut  off  the  head 
and  feet ;  wash  the  carcass  dean,  and 
divide  it  into  joints ;  bruise  some  of 
the  green  ginger,  onions  and  garlicj 
squeeze  the  juice  into  a  basin,  and 
add  a  little  salt  with  some  tyre;  mix 
all  together  and  rub  over  the  meat 
and  let  it  remain  for  an  hour  ;  then 
give  a  boghar  to  the  meat  in  ghee  with  some  thin  sliced 
onions ;  add  a  portion  of  the  spices  to  it  and  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  water,  and  boil  the  meat  till  done;  keep  it 
warm;  clean  and  divide  the  head  and  legs  of  the  kid;  cut 
the  meat  in  slices ;  put  both  together  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  proper  quantity  of  water,  about  six  quarts,  the  sliced  oni- 
ons and  spices,  and  boil  gently  till  the  meat  separates  from 


Kid,    .    -    •    1 

Meat,    -    -    -  1  Seer, 

iiioe,  .    -    -    2  „ 

Ohee,    -    -    -1  „ 

■&"»■--*  « 

Onions,-    •    - 1  r> 

Green  ginger,   4  Tolaha. 

Garlic,  .    .    -3  „ 

Coriander  8eedB,2  „ 

Salt,    ...  4  „ 

Cinnamon,  *) 

Cloves,        ^ea.4  Maahas. 

Cardamom,) 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  447 

the  bone^  removing  the  scum  from  time  to  time;  strain  off 
Ihe  gravy;  wash  the  rice  well,  and  parboil  it  in  water;  then 
place  it  in  another  saucepan  with  the  gravy  and  boil  till 
the  rice  is  properly  cooked ;  then  put  it  over  the  meat  of 
the  kid ;  cover  dose  the  saucepan,  and  boil  the  whole  gent- 
ly for  a  short  time,  and  serve. 

BABBAWN  PULLOW. 

Mest»  ....  1  Seer.  ^^^  ^'    ^^  *^®  wheat  in  water 

eh"*^-'-'.'   1  "  ^^^^    ^^^   tender;    then    dry   it  in 

Chuoiu,  '  '  '  tJ*  ^^^  ^^^'  ^^^'  which    coarsely   grind 

ctoJSr*^  -'•  1  !^  ^^  ^  remove  the  husk.  Slice  the 
gj[2r^255;w,\  4   "  meat;  put    it  in  a    saucepan    with  a 

Sri*  d^^Sd..*  1  ^^^'^*^*  sufficient  quantity  of  water,  some 
Ciumiin  seeds,    1  »  sliced  onious,   green    ginger,  pounded 

salt,  and  coriander  seeds;  boil  the 
whole  well  together;  strain  the  gravy  into  another  vessel, 
and  boghar  the  meat  with  cloves;  put  the  wheat  with 
some  ghee  into  a  pan  and  fry  it;  then  add  the  gravy  with 
a  little  ghee,  and  boil  till  done.  Have  ready  the  meat 
with  the  spices  in  another  saucepan ;  put  over  it  the  wheat 
with  a  little  more  ghee;  cover  the  pan  close,[^and  set  it 
near  the  fire  for  tw^ty   minutes. 

IMLEE   PULLOW. 

Cut  the  meat  into  slices ;  put  it 
bS;  .'-'/  1  ^'  into  a  saucepan  with  the  usual  quan- 
2!JJ!^™*^.'. '.  1    2  *^^y  ®^   water,    sliced    onions,    green 

gw-  •  -    I  ^  ginger,   salt,  and  coriander  seeds  with 


Cloves,    -  .    1    „    '  some  ghee;  boil  the  whole    well  to* 

Black  p^S^r,  '  1     "  gethcr ;  strain  the  gravy  into  another 

Cjojmtr  seeds,  1  ToU.  g^ucepan    and    give  a  boghar  to  it, 

Qyo°*>.-  •  •    J  22\  with    the    meat    also,    in    ghee    and 

Cneeii  Ei]iffer«    *    1  JjojaIi*  ^  > 

fiusns,  .  .     \  Seer.         cloves ;  Separate  the   meat   from    the 

gravy,    and    mix  with  the  latter  the 

sugar  and  tamarinds ;   give  it  a  boil  and  strain  the  gravy. 

Put  the  meat  into  a  pan   on  the    fire,  with   the    cummin 


Digitized  by 


Google 


448  INDIAN    DOMESTIC    XCONOMY 

seeds  and  spices  and  a  little  gravy,  and  boil  the  whole 
.  until  the  gravy  is  dried  up ;  boil  the  rice  in  the  gravy  as 
usual ;  when  done,  put  it  over  the  meat  with  a  little  ghee  ; 
cover  the  saucepan  close,  and  let  it  stand  near  the  fire  a 
short  time.  When  you  serve  the  pullow,  put  the  raisins 
fried   over  it. 

NUCKODEE  KOOFTHA  PULLOW. 
«.  ,^  ,,^  Slice    the  meat  and  put   it  into  a 

Mutton,      .    .  \\  Seer.  .  ,  «,  . 

Rice, ....  1      „  saucepan  with  a  su£Scient    quantity  of 

Suet,      ,    .    .    STolalw.  .     ^  v     j         •  • 

Eggs,     ...  2  water,  some  suced  onions,  green  gin- 

sl^hg;e«^8,'    \^^^       ger,  pounded  salt,  and  coriander  seeds, 

S?!**^*'-  •  •    Sm_»»v  ^^  gl^^  ai^cl  tJie  soyah  greens  nice- 

Green  ginger,     2  TbUhs.  ,  ^,     _  ,      .  ,     ,       ,    .,      „ 

AimondB, .  .    \  Seer.  Ij  Washed    and  picked ;    boil  all   io- 

SAffh>n|  \\'iMMha.'        gethcr  Until  the  meat  is   done;   then 

cio^°"*.  \  *  a '    "  strain  the  gravy  into  a  basin  ;    take 

cSlSSr°Seds  *  6      "  ^^*    ^^  °*^^  *^*  ^^^  ^^  *  boghar 

Black  pepper, '  8     ,*  in  ghee  with   half  the  cloves ;    after 

Coriander,     .     3  Tolahs.  ,  .  .  jj     ,1  •  j  j 

which,  add  the  cummin  seeds  and 
part  of  the  spices.  Parboil  the  rice  in  plain  water;  after 
which,  dress  it  in  the  gravy  with  the  cinnamon,  take  the 
saffron,  grind  it  with  a  little  water,  and  colour  a  part  of  the 
rice,  which  place  over  the  meat,  or  on  one  side  of  the 
saucepan,  and  the  plain  rice  on  the  other ;  pour  some  ghee 
over  the  whole  and  cover  the  saucepan  dose,  and  set  it 
near  the  fire.  Mince  very  fine  the  other  half  seer  of  meat 
and  give  it  a  boghar  in  ghee  with  some  sliced  onions,  green 
ginger,  salt,  and  coriander  seeds;  add  a  little  water,  and 
boil  gently  till  the  meat  is  done;  then  put  the  meat  into 
a  mortar  with  the  suet,  some  chopped  onions,  pepper,  salt, 
and  the  white  of  the  eggs ;  put  the  whole  together  into  a 
paste,  form  it  into  small  balls,  roll  them  in  the  flour,  and 
then  give  a  boghar  to  them  in  ghee  with  cloves ;  pound  the 
almonds  with  a  little  water  and  the  rest  of  the  spices,  and 
put  it  with  the  balls,  which  are  now  to  be  fried  until  pro- 
perly done,  and  when  ready,  placed  over  the  puUow  and 
served. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKE&T.  449 

NATIVE  CAKES  FOR  EATING  WITH  CURRT,  8fC. 

NUAN  A  BAH  KUMMACH. 

Take  one  seer  of  soojee^  one-fonith  of  a  seer  of  ghee^  half 
a  seer  of  milk^  four  tolahs'  weight  of  yeast,  and  one  tolah 
of  salt ;  mix  the  milk  with  the  soojee  ;  then  add  the  ghee, 
yeast,  and  salt ;  work  it  well,  and  set  it  aside  to  rise  for 
a  couple  o^  hours ;  then  form  it  into  two  cakes ;  sprinkle 
them  over  with  khushkhush  and    aniseed,  and  bake  them. 

KUMMACH  A  KASSAH. 

first  prepare  the  fermenting  liquid  with .  aniseed,  one 
tolah ;  boil  it  in  a  pint  of  water  till  reduced  to  one-half ; 
then  strain  it  into  a  basin,  and  when  cooled  a  little,  add 
half  a  pound  of  peeled  chennah  (gram),  and  let  it  remain  . 
in  a  warm  place  for  nine  or  ten  hours,  to  ferment. 
Should  fermentation  not  take  place,  the  liquid  must  be 
boiled  again ;  when  ready  knead  it  with  eight  ounces  of 
wheat  flour,  and  allow  it  to  reinain  a  couple  of  hours  to 
rise.  Now  take  three  pints  of  cow's  milk  and  boil  it 
down  to  one-half,  or  rather  more ;  then  mix  it  with  one 
pound  of  soojee  and  the  same  of  wheat  flour,  and  work  it 
well ;  then  add  to  it  the  dough  that  has  risen,  and  knead 
it  well  a  second  time  with  the  salt ;  keep  it  covered  in  a 
warm  place  for  an  hour ;  then  divide  it  into  cakes ;  smear 
the   pan  with  ghee  and  bake  them.  ^ 

NAUNA  SHEER  MHAL. 


Mix  the  mydah  well  with  the 
Mydah,  -  -  1  Seer.  Milk  and  salt,  and  knead  it  for  some 
!?J^  ■  ■  "  *  J', ,  t™« ;  after  which  mix  in  the  ghee, 
%^  ,   ,   ,      ]  A^u   lastly    the    kummjer ;   work    it 

Kummier, .    .   s   „  ^^^   sigun^    and    set  it  in    a  warm 

I  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


4S6  INDIAK  DOMXSnp  ECONOMY 

place,  covered  over  with  a  doth,  to  rise.^  This  will  take 
from  two  to  three  hours.  Form  it  into  a  flat  cake,  and 
sprinkle  a  little  milk  with  a  brush  or  feather  over  it  be- 
fore being  baked. 

Take  four  pice  weight  of  dhall  gram,  soak  it 
Leaven,  in  water,  imd  pound  it  with  oae  pee  weight  of 
aniseed,  add  this  to  a  quarter  of  a  seer  of  Puhee 
(curdled  milk  whey)  with  half  a  seer  ^f  whe*t  flour ;  work 
it  well  together  ;  wrap  it  in  a  wann  cloth,  and  9et  it 
aside  to  rise  for  three  or  four  hours. 

Ohs.^Yovn  pice  weight  with  two  of  salt  is  sn^oient 
to  mix  in  the  usual  manner  with  one  seer  of  flour,  after 
being  made  into   dough. 


.  SHEER  MHALL.    (Another.) 

Mil  the  flour  and  coojee  with  the 
-  \  Seer.  milk  ;  work  it  well  with  the  leaven 
T*\\  "  and  salt,  and  keep  it  to  rise  in  a 
^^  "'^Ijp**^*^'**-  warm  place  for  three  or  four  hours; 
Leaien,  -  4<  «  form  the  bread,  and  rub  a  Ktfle  ho- 
ney over  it,  and  sprinkle  with  khushkhusk  or  sliced 
almonds,  and  bake  it. 

5UMMIE11. 

This  is  a  sort  of  leaven  used  by  Mussulmans  for  raising 
their  bread  or  cakes.  Take  aniseed  thre^  mashas,  dhye, 
a  sufficient  quantity  to  make  flfteen  tolahs'  weight  of  my- 
dah  into  a  soft  dough ;  soak  the  aniseed  in  the  dhye  for 
ten  or  twelve  hours  and  strain  it;  then  mix  it  with  the 
flour  and  set  it  aside  to  rise  for  a  couple  of  hours  more, 
when   it  is  fit  for  use. 

BAKA  KHANA. 

Mix   the   flour  with  two-thirds  of 
Myd»ii.  -    -  1     Sitt^.        the  milk   weH  together;  blanch  and 

Milk,    -     -  -  4         »  .  , 

Ghee,.    -  -  15  Toiahs.         pound  to  a  pastc  lu  a  mortar  twelve 
aat,  -  -    -  -  5  KMhw. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AKD  COOKERY.  451 

Uttmmier,  -  s  "^oifthf.  tolahs'  Weight  of  the  almonds  with 
ASondf,  '.  16  „  A  Uttle  milk  to  keep  them  from 
oiling;  then  by  degrees  add  the  re- 
mainder of  fhe  jtailk  and  strain  it  ihto  the  dongh;  take 
the  yolk  of  the  egg  and  ghee,  and  mix  all  well  together ; 
lastly,  add  the  kummier  and  set  it  aside  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise  for  a  couple  of  hoars;  then  form  it  into  a  flat 
cake,  the  shape  of  a  horde-^hoe;  brush  it  over  with  milk, 
and  sprinkle  the  remaining  almonds,  chopped  fine,  over  it, 
or  some  khushkhush  seed;  place  t&e  cake  on  a  tin  and 
bake    it. 


BAKA  KHANA.     (Another.) 

Mix  the  soojee,  cream,  and  leaven 
3o^  -  4  Seer.  well  together ;  add  the  gait  and  ghee, 

Ohee,    -  i^^'  ^®^k  ^^  ^^^  whole  into  a  mass  for 

ittwen*  -  4  ^^  ,7***  ^     Jtonie  tiiBe,  set  it  aside  to  rise.    When 
the  leaven  has  taken  its  proper  ^ect, 
make  it  into  a  flat  cake;  rub  some  honey  or  duhee  over  it, 
and  dprinkle  with  sliced  almonds. 

fAU^UDS. 

Take  a  seer  of  the  flour  of  moong   ka  dhcdl    or  oodug 
and  sift  it  well^  and  add  to  it  the  following  ingredients: — 

These  are  to  be  pounded  fine  and 

BU&  Mpp«r/  9     1'  Wen  ktieaded  into  dough  ;  set  it  asidd 

tat  tax  hourfr  and  kn6atf  it  agam ; 
afberwflCrds  beat  it  with  a  round  stone  or  in  a  mortar  until 
it  becomes  of  a  proper  consistency  to  be  malleable  and 
made  into  very  thin  cakes  ;  then  take  a  small  ball  of  it 
and  slightly  smear  it  over  with  ghee ;  spread  it  with  a 
roller  upon  a  smooth  board,   the  thinner  the  better. 

These  cakes,  if  kept  in  a  dry  place,  will  be  good   for  a 
long  time,  and  when  to  be  used,  should  only  be  grilled  or 


Digitized  by 


Google 


452  INDIAN  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY   AND   COOKERY. 

toasted  without  ghee  or    butter^   and     served    quite    warm 
and  crisp. 

MADRAS  HOPPEBS,  OR  OPAS. 

Wash  and  clean  a  seer  of  rice  very  nicely  and  laj  it 
upon  a  cloth  in  the  sun ;  when  perfectly  dry,  pound  it  in 
a  mortar  to  a  fine  flour ;  then  put  it  into  a  pan  and  mix 
it  up  with  sweet  toddy  into  a'  paste,  and  let  it  remain  for 
at  least  twelve  hours,  or  all  the  night.  Next  day  take 
two  cocoanuts  and  scrape  the  inside  and  squeeze  the 
juice  into  the  rice  paste,  mixing  both  together;  then  place 
an  iron  or  earthen  pan  ^ on  a  rather  slow  fire;  rub  the 
inside  of  the  pan  with  ghee,  and  put  as  much  as  you  please 
of  the  cake  in  it;  cover  it  over  with  a  similar  pan  and 
place  some  embers  on  the  top;  in  a  short  time  it  will  be 
baked,  which  can  only  be  known  by  lifting  the  top;  if 
not  done  enough,  let  it  remain  a  little  longer,  but  do 
not  turn   it. 

The  yolk  of  eggs  with  a  little  suga^  is  sometimes  added 
to  the  rice,  with  the  toddy  well  beaten  together.  This 
makes  the  cakes  yellow  and  sweet,  whereas  the  others 
are  quite  white  and  plain  inside,  and  the  under  part 
only  browned. 

CHUPATEES 

Are  made  by  mixing  flour  and  water  together,  with 
a  little  salt,  into  a  paste  or  dough,  kneading  it  well; 
sometimes  ghee  is  added.  They  may  also  be  made  with 
nulk  instead'  of  water.  They  are  flattened  into  thin 
cakes  with  the  hand,  smeared  with  a  small  quantity  of 
gheci  and  baked  on  an  iron  pan  over  the  fire. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTEE    XXIX- 


WEIGHTS  AND  ME  ABUSES. 

The   following    table    shows  the    Weights  and  Measures 
referred   to  in  •this   work  : — 


19    Grains  eqnal  to  1  Masha. 


5    Maslias 
12    M^shas* 
3    Tolahs 
li  PoUamor^ 
Tolahs      ' 


Drachm. 

Tolah. 

Pollam. 


5 

2 

16 
2 


1  Chittack. 


Drachms  „ 

Ounces  „ 

do. 

Pounds  „ 


Ounce. 

Chittack. 

Ponnd. 


5  Seers     equal     to  1  Pussaree. 


8  Pussarees 
1  Maund 
4  Soup  ladles  is 
8  Table-spoonfuls 
A  Table-spbonfnl 
A  Dessert  do. 
A  Tea        do« 


1  Maund. 
,  40  Seers. 
,    1  Pint. 
,    1  Ladle. 
,    i  an  Ounce. 
»    *  jj      » 


A  Table-spoonfiil  of  flour  is,  as 
near  as  possible,  half  an  ounce. 

Obs. — The  variations  in  the  weights  at  different  places 
are  so  great  that  the  above  are  given  as  a  standard,  which 
will  be  found  sufficiently  correct  to  agree  with  the  quan- 
tities laid  down  in  the  receipts. 


BOMBAY  PRICE  CUERENT. 

AVllUGE  OV   PRICES  POB  THRBE   MONTHS   OF  THE  YEAE   1848. 


ARTICLES. 

PRICES. 

- 

Jan. 

May. 

Nov.' 

Prime  pieces 1st  sort  10  lbs 

do 2d  do.  12  do. 

do 3d  do.  U  do. 

Brisket  and  round Ist  do.  12  do. 

».  A.  P. 

10    0 
10    0 
10    0 
10    0 
10    0 
10    0 
10    0 

B.  A.  P. 
10     0 

10    0 
10    0 
10    0 
10    0 
10    0 
10    0 

B.  A.  P. 
10     0 

10  0 
10    0 

loo 

do 2d  do.  14  do. 

10    0 

do 3d  do.  16  do. 

McatforSoup 16  do. 

10  0 
10    0 

Digitized  by 


Google 


454 


INDIAN    DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 


ARTICLES. 


Shin 1st  Bort  each. 

do 2d    do.    do. 

Ox  Tails do. 

Tongue lam....     do. 

do smiQl....    do. 

Heart large....    do. 

do small....     do. 

Marrow-£one do. 

Gx  Palates do. 

Peetyfonr do. 

Suet per  pound. 

VEAL,  SMALL. 

Hind  Quarter 1st  sort  3    lbs, 

do.         2d  do.  3|  do. 

do 3d  do.  4     do. 

fore  Quarter 1st  do.  3i  do. 

do 2d  do.  4     do. 

do 8d  do.  4J  do. 

VEAli,  LARGE. 

Hind  Quarter Ist  sort  4    fte. 

do 2d  do.  5     do. 

do.         8d  do.  6i  do. 

ForeQuarter 1st  do.  &     do. 

do 2d  do.  6i  do. 

do 3d  do.  6     do. 

Head Ist  do.  ...each. 

do 2d  do.      do. 

do 8d  do.      do. 

Feet,  four Ist  do 

do 2d  do 

do 8d  do 

Liver  a&d  Heart.... Ist  do.     eacli. 

do.  2d-  do.      da 

do.  3d  do.      do 


PRICES. 


Jan. 


B.  A.  P. 


MUTTON  FOR  EUROPEANS. 
Saddle 1st  sort  per  ft. 

^J^^    ^^^'"^''"'1  l^do.        do. 
uidNecE ) 

Breast Ist  do. 

Saddle •...2d  do. 

Leg.     Lorn,    Shoulder,]  ^^  ^^ 

and  Neck 3 

Breast -....2d  do. 

3d  do.         do.|  0 


Mat. 


B.  A.  P. 


1  0 
1  0 
1    0 

1 
1 
1 


1 
1 
Of  1 


0 
0 

0 
0  12 
0  10 
0    8 


3  0 

2  0 

1  6 

2  0 

'  'l 

1  3  0 

1  61  0 


1 
1 
1 

0  12 
0  10 
0    8 


Nov. 


B.  A.  P. 


0 

0 

4|  0 


3 

3 

0 

6|  0    3 

0    2 

0    3 

0    2 

0    1 

0 


6 
0 

4 
6 
6 
0 
0 
0 


0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 


0  0 
0J> 


1 

1 
1 

0   1 

o|  1 

1 


3 

2 

1 
2 


0 
0 

Old 


a  6 

4    0 
4    0 


0  0 

0  0 

0  0 

0  0 

0  0 

0  0 


0  12 
0  10 


3 

2 

1 
2 


0    1 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY. 


456 


ARTICLES. 


PfllCBS. 


Jan. 


May. 


Nov. 


^iS!^..^?!^^!':'!^  sort  per  fii. 

BreMt... ........... ... ... ...  ...8rd  io.         do, 

ToDfOB each. 

JkmB 

Head 


B.  4.  P. 


0    13 


B.  A.  p. 


yeet|F(mr 

liTer  and  Heart 

Kidneys 

Sucfc per  pound. 


MUTTON  FOR  NATIVES. 

fint  8oxt 13  ponnda. 

Seocmd^o 14     do. 

ThirJ   do ]6     do. 

Heai  feet,  livp^r,  and  heart - 

Srains each. 


KID,  SMALL. 
Hiii4Q9ai^P 1st  aort  4    fta. 


do. 3nd  do. 

do. Srd  do. 


^  do. 
5    do 


lorcQnarter Ist   do.  4J  do. 

do. 9nd  do.  5    do. 

do. Srd   do.  6^  do. 


KID,  liARGB. 
Hind  Qaarter lat  sort  ^  Iba. 


do 2nd  do.  5' 

do ?rd  do.  6 

Fore  Qnarter 1st   do.  6 

do 2nd  do.  6 

do. 8rd  do.  7 

Head,  feet«  Uver,  and  heart , 


do. 


LAMB,  SMALL. 

HiniOoarier Ist  sort  H  fte. 

do 2nd  do.  6    do. 

do. 8rd  do.  7    do. 

fore  Quarter Ist   do.  6    do. 

do. 2nd  do.  6^  do. 

do Srd  do.  7i  do, 


1 

/ 
1 
0 
0 
1 
0 

1 

0 
4 


10  0 

10  0 

10  0 

0    8  0 

0    0  4 


B.  A.  P. 


*0    1    8 


0    4 


10  0 

10  0 

10  0 

0    8  0 

0    0  4 


0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 


Digitized  by 


Google 


456 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 


ARTICLES. 


LAMB,  LARG£. 

Hind  Quarter Ist  sort  6^  lbs. 

do *. 2nd  do.  7    da 

do 3rd  do.  7i  do. 

Fore  Qujffter Ist  do.  7    do. 

do.. 2nd  do.  74  do. 

do 3rd  do.  8    do. 

Head,  feet,  liver  and  heart 


PORK,  FRESH  AND  SALT. 

Pork 10  lbs. 

Pig,  roasting,  large  size each. 

do.      do.      small  do do. 

Pig's  head 10  lbs. 

Sansages 4  do. 

Trotters,  large per  four. 

do.     .smau do- 
Pig's  Liver  and  Heart .,. 

Salt  Pork,  country 10  lbs. 

POULTRY. 

Geese each. 

Turkey  cock,  Bombay do. 

do.    hen,        do do. 

do.    cock,  Goa do. 

do.    hen,       do do. 

Fowls,  large,  Surat, dp. 

do.    small,     do do. 

do.    large,  Sindey ....each. 

do.    small      do do 

do.    large,  Bombay do. 

do.    small,     do do. 

Chickens,  large < per  dozen. 

do.    small do. 

Ducks,  large each. 

do.    small da 

Hens'    eggs do 

Ducks'    do.... do 


FRUITS  OF  SORTS, 
lies,  Bombay Ist  sort  each. 


do,       do 2nd  do.  do- 
do.    G(» 1st  do.  do- 
do,   do.        do 2nd  do.  do* 

Pomelos 1st  do.  do. 

do 2nd  do.  do. 


PRICES. 


Jan. 


B.   A.  P. 


3 

3 
2 
2 

1 
2 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 

1  12 
0  8 
0  6 
0  0 
0    0 


0  12 


May. 


B.  A.  P. 


1   12 

0  10 


1  0 
0  12 
0    4 

0  4 

1  0 
0  12 


Nov. 


S.  A.    p. 


0 

0 
0 
0 
8 
0 
8 
0 
0 
8 
6 
0 


3 
2 

2 

1 

2 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

2 

1  12 

0    8 

0    6 

0    0 

0    0 


1  0 
0  12 
0    4 

0  2 

1  0 
0  12 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKEET. 


467 


ARTICLES. 


PRICES. 


Jan. 


May. 


Nov. 


DRY  FRUITS,  OF  SORTS. 

Guavas 1st  sort  each. 

do 2nd  do.    do. 

OiaiDges 1st  do.    do. 

do 2nd  do.    do. 

Black  G»pc8 per  seer. 

Green    do •• 

Water  Melons,  large each 

do.        do.     small do. 

Musk       do.     large do. 

do.       do.     small do. 

PlamtainSy  red,  large do. 

do.       do.     small ^...  do. 

do.     yellow,  large do. 

do.       do.     small do. 

Sweet  Limes,  large do. 

do.      do.    small do. 

LJBies do. 

Potatoes,  Neilgherries,  large per  seer. 

do.  do*         small do. 

do.       Mahableswar,  large do. 

do.  do.  small do. 

do.       PooBa,  large do. 

do.  do.   small do. 

Yams do, 

Onions do. 

Enms,  fine per  seer  weight. 

do.   coarse do.  do. 

Cmiants,  fine do.  do. 

do.   coarse do.  do. 

Primes,  new do.  do. 

*  do.     old do.  do. 

Afanonds,  1st  sort do.  do. 

do.        2d   do do.  do. 


BREAD,  FLOUR,  ROLONG,  &c. 

ALoaf  of  1st  poiz 12  o«.  each 

do.    of  2d    do 13  oz.    do. 

do.    brown  do 32         c 

do.     do.     do 16         do. 

Iknir  Wheat per  seer  measBre. 

Bolong. do.  do. 

Sajro^fine do.    weight. 

Qo.    coarse do.  do. 

Arrowroot do.  do. 

do.       coarse do.  do. 


B.  A.  p. 


B.  A.  p. 


B.  A.   p. 


0  0 
0  0 
0  10 
0    8 


0  1 
0-  1 
0 


1 
3 
3 
1 
1 

2    0 

1    6 

k8 


2  6 

2  0 

2  6 

2  0 


1     6 


Digitized  by 


Google 


458 


INDIAN  BOnsnC  ECONOtfT 


ARTICLES. 


MILK  AND  BUTTER. 

CoVs  Milk per  seer  measure, 

do.   Butter per  cop  of  2  oz, 

Bnffaloe's  Milk per  seer  measure. 

do.       Butter per  cup  of  2  oz. 


FIREWOOD. 

Babool per  candy  of  28  mds.  784  fts. 

£hair do do.  do. 

Aine do.  do. 

KurmeU do.  do. 


OIL,  CANDLES,  AND  SOAP. 

Cocoanut  Oil,  1st  sort,  per  mauud  of  28  lbs. 

do.       do.  2d  do do do. 

Jeenglee,^ do do. 

Erandia. do do. 

Candles,  Europe do do. 

do.      Goa do do, 

do.      Cochin, do do. 

Soap,      Country ....do do. 

do.  do      coarse do do. 


SUGAB,  OF  SORTS. 

Pinfa  Sugar per  md.  of  28  !bs. 

Sufar  Candy,  1st  sort do do. 

do.    do.      2d   do. do do, 

do.    do.      3d   do do do. 

Soft  Suffar,     1st  do do do. 

do.    do.      2d  do do do. 

Brown do do. 

Jagree do do. 


GHEE,  OF  SORTS. 

Ghee,  Kurrachee per  md.  of  28  lbs. 

do.  Surat do do 

do.  Bhownuggur do do. 

do.  Balghauty do do. 

do.  Rajapoory do do, 

do.  Ghauty do do. 

do.  Jaffrarad do do. 


PRICES. 


r 

N 

Jan. 

Mat 

B. 

lev. 

B.  A. 

P. 

K.  A. 

P. 

A.  P. 

0   1 

4 

0   1 

4 

0 

1  6 

0  1 

2 

0  1 

3 

0 

1  4 

0  1 

3 

0  I 

3 

0 

1  4 

0  I 

2 

0  1 

2 

0 

1  2 

2  8 

0 

3  0 

0 

2 

4  0 

2  6 

0 

2  8 

0 

2 

8  0 

2  8 

0 

2  4 

0 

2 

4  0 

0  0 

0 

2  8 

0 

2 

8  0 

2  13 

0 

2  11 

0 

2 

6  0 

2  12 

0 

2  10 

0 

2 

4  0 

2  8 

0 

2  5 

0 

2 

4  0 

2  6 

0 

2  3 

0 

2 

3  0 

22  0 

0 

24  0 

0 

20 

0  0 

19  0 

0 

20  0 

0 

19 

0  0 

20  0 

0 

19  0 

0 

20 

0  0 

1  4 

0 

1  4 

0 

1 

0  0 

0  0 

0 

1  0 

0 

0  14  0 

7  0 

0 

9  0 

0 

14 

0  0 

0  0 

0 

7    0 

0 

5 

8  0 

5  8 

0 

4  12 

0 

5 

0  0 

5  0 

0 

4  8 

0 

4 

8  0 

4  8 

0 

4  4 

0 

4 

6  0 

3  4 

0 

3  0 

0 

3 

0  0 

3  0 

0 

2  12 

0 

2  12  0 

1  12 

0 

1  12 

0 

1 

8  0 

6  0 

0 

5  ]2 

0 

5 

8  0 

6  8 

0 

6  8 

0 

5  12  0 

6  0 

0 

6  8 

0 

5 

8  0 

6  4 

0 

6  4 

0 

5 

0  0 

6  0 

0 

4  4 

0 

4 

8  0 

6  0 

0 

4  8 

0 

4 

8  0 

6  8 

0 

6  8 

0 

6  12  0 

Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY. 


459 


AETICLES. 


GBAIN,  OP  SOETS. 

Wheat,  Hansia per.  Cdy.  of  8  paras. 

do.    Jambooseer Ist  sort do.  do. 

do.           do 2d  do do.  do. 

do.     Bhowiuiggar...l8t  do do.  do. 

do.           do.        ...2d  do do.  do. 

do.    Ghanty do.  do. 

do.    Sindey do.  do. 

Gram,  Jambooseer do.  do. 

do.    Bengal do.  do. 

do.    Gho^aree,  Ist  sort do.  do. 

do.         00.        2d  do. do.  do. 

do.    Ghanty      1st  do do.  do. 

do.         do.        2d  do do.  do. 

Wooreed,  Ghanty do.  do. 

do.         Cutchey do.  do. 

do.        Malabar... do.  do. 

do.        Ghogaree do.  do. 

Mug,               do do.  do. 

Matt,              do do.  do. 

do.  Ghanty do.  do. 

da  Cutchey do.  do. 

Mug,      do do.  do. 

Bazaree,  Ghanty do.  do. 

do.      Bhownuggur,  1st  sort do.  do. 

do.              do          2d  do do.  do. 

do.      Bajapoor per  candy. 

Barley Ist  sort do.  do. 

do 2d  do do.  do. 

Toor Ist  da  do.  do. 

do 2d  do do.  do. 

Joaree do.  do. 

Naeheny do.  do. 

Vattuia do.  do. 

Chowley per  para 

Dall,  Broach do 

do.  Sorat do 


UNBOILED  BICE.  OP  SOETS. 

Bice,  Patna per  para.. 

do.  Sindey,  red do. 

do.  Rows do.    .. 

do.  Red do.    .. 

BEATEN  BICE,  OP  SOETS. 

Bioe,  Jerasaol,  Ist  sort per  para.. 

do.     do.      2d   do do.    ., 


PIECES. 


Jan.        Mat. 


B.  A.  p. 


21 

18 

17 

14 

12 

15 

13 

17 

0 

16 

15 

16 

15 

13 

15 

14 

16 

0 

13 

12 

13 

0 

9 

16 

14 

11 

14 

13 

18 

16 

7 

7 

15 

2 

3 

4 


020 


B.  A.  p. 


18 
17 
16 
15 
14 
13 
16 
13 
15 
14 
14 
13 
13 
16 
14 
15 
0 
13 
12 
13 
22 
11 
16 
15 
12 
14 
13 
15 
11 
9 
8 
15 


2  8 
2  4 
2  12 


2    0  0 

0  0  0 

1  12  0 
18  0 


3    8    0 
8    0    0 


2    2  0 

0  0  0 
2    0  0 

1  12  0 


Nov. 


B.   A.   P. 


22  0 

18  0 

17  0 

15  0 

13  0 

12  0 

11  0 


16 
11 
14 
13 


013 

0\12 

14 

13 

12 
14 
13 
14 
10 
14 
20 
11 
15 
13 
10 
10 
9 
15 
13 
9 
8 
15 


2  12 

2  4 

3  0 


2    4  0 

0  0  0 
2    0  0 

1  10  0 


3    8    0  3    8    0 
3    4    0   3    4    0 


Digitized  by 


Google 


460 


INDIAN    DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 


ARTICLES. 


PRICES. 


Jan. 


Bice,  Yemle  1st  sort per  para  . 

do.        do.    Sd  do do.    .. 

do.  SindejRatra do.     .. 

do.      do.    Spondee do.    .. 

do.  Patna do.    . 

do.  Row do.    . 


MANQALORB  RICE,  OP  SORTS. 

Rice  Unboiled  Ist  sort per  robin... . 

do.        do.     2d  do do 

do.  Boiled      1st  do do 

do.    do.         2d  do do 


BENGAL  RICE,  OF  SORTS. 

Bice  Unboiled  Ist  sort {^leslbS! 

do.        do.     2d  do do.    do. 

do.  Boiled     1st  do.  do.    do. 

do.    do.         2d  do do.    do. 

BATTY. 


Batty  Patna  per  moora  of  25  paras., 
do.    Raw  do.  do. 

do.    Red  do.  do. 


SUNDRIES. 

Saltpetre,  Europe per  md.  of  28  lbs  .. 

do.         Bengal do.         do. 

do.         Rajapoor do.         do. 

Pepper,  black  1st  sort per  seer... 

do.         do.  2d  do do. 

Garlic  1st  sort do. 

do.     2d  do do.     '.[ 

Camphor per  pound 

Table  Salt do.  seer..;;! 

Common  White  Salt do.  pjlee... 

do.        Black do.    do.  ... 

Ginger do.  seer 


K.  A.   P. 


2  12 
2    8 


24  0 
21  0 
18    0 


2  12 
2    4 
2    0    0 
1  12    0 


5  8  0 

6  0  0 
4  4  0 
4  0  0 


8 
0 
8 
2 

1  0 
0  10 

0  8 
7    0 

1  0 
1  0 
0  10 


Mat. 


B.  A.  p. 

3  0 

2  12 
0  0 

3  12 
2  8    0 
2  4    0 


2    8 
2     4 

2    0    0 

1  12    0 


5  12  0 

4    8  0 

4    0  0 

3  12  0 


026 
022 
021 


0  0 
0  0 
0    0 


0    4  0 


8 
0 
8 
2 
1 
0 
0 
6 
1 
1 
1 
0 


Nov. 


B.  A. 

3  0 
%  18 
0  O 
8  12 
2  8 
2    4 


2  12  0 

2     8  0 

2    4  0 

2     0  0 


5  8  0 

4  8  0 

4  4  0 

4  0  0 


25  0  0 
23  0  O 
21    0    0 


2  8 

3  0 

1  12 


VEGETABLES. 

GeneraDj  sold  according  to  the  quantity    in  the   Market,  and  the 
choice  of  the   Vegetables. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  46 L 

BOMBAY  MONEY;  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


Accounts  are  kept  in  Rapees^  Quarter,  Beas;  or  in  Rupees, 
Annas  and  Pies. 

Meal  and  Imaginary   Coins. 


100  Beas  or  4  annas  are  equal  to 

1  Quarter  of  a  Bupee 

4  Quarters  or  16  annas  are  equal 

to    1  Bupee,  2«.  at  par. 

2  Beas  are  equal  to  . 

1  Urdee  or  pie. 

4    do.            »      >,        • 

.     1  Doogany  or  2  Pies. 

6     do-  or  3  Urdees  (pies)  . 

1  Pice. 

8     do.  or  4    do.      (pies) 

•     1  Fuddea. 

4  Pice  or  12  Urdees  (pies)  . 

1  Anna. 

16    do.  or    4  annas 

.J  1  Quarter. 

32   do.  or   Saunas     . 

1  Half  Bupee. 

64   do.  or  16  annas 

.     1  Rupee. 

15  Rupees 

1  Gold  Mohur. 

Gold  Coins... Mohur  of  18S0,  weighs  180  grains,  value  15  Rs. 
Silver  do.  ...Rupee,  half  Rupee,  and  quarter  Rupee. 
Copper  do.  ...Double  pice,  pice,  and  one-third  Pice. 

4  Pice...  1  Anna. 

16  Annas    1  Bupee. 

and  15  Rupees  1  Gold  Mohur. 


Accounts  are  kept  in  Bombay  in  Co's.  Rs.  quarters  and  reas«  viz- 
100  Reas  (rs)...l  Quarter,  (Q)  or  (4  annas.) 
4  Quarters  or  16  annas...  1  Rupee  (Rs.) 

The  intrinsic  value  of  a  Rupee,  coined  into^English  money, 
(less  the  Mint  duty  of  4s.  per  lb.)  leaves  Is.f  lOd.  2f.  after 
deducting  the  Freight  and  Insurance  to  England,  Charges, 
Commissions,  &c. 


Cigitized  by 


Google 


462  INDIAN    DOMESTIC  BCONOMT 

On  the  same  calculation,  it  is  equal  to  2  francs^  34  cents 
i^jigL  of  French  money. 


NEW  WEIGHTS  AND  LIQUID  MEASUBES. 

1  Tolah  =        180  Grains  Troy. 

80  Tolahs=  1  Seer.         =   14,400 
30  Seers   =  I  IndianMd.=  576,000 

lbs.  Avoirdupois. 
Then    as:=    7,000  Grains  Troy    are  exactly  equal  to  1 
1  Seer  of=  14,400  Grains  Troy     is  exactly  equal  to  S  2.S5 
1  Md.  of=576,00O  Grains  Troy     is  exactly  equal  to  8  8S.0 


And  it  follows  therefore,  lbs.  Avoirdupois. 

That  85  seers  are  exactly  equal  to  72  „  „ 

,,       7  Indian  Maunds=wt.     57  or        676  „  „ 

„     49  do.  =  „    399  or  4,082  „  „ 

„  245=9  tons  =  „  1995  or  20,160  „  „ 


The  following  simile  and  accurate  Rules  for  the  conversion 
of  new  Indian  weight  into  avoirdupois  weight,  and  vice  vers&, 
deducted  from  the  foregoing  data,  are  given  in  the  volume  of 
useful  Tables  published  by  Mr.  James  Prinsep,  in  Calcutta  in 
1834,  page  66. 

Eule  I.     To  convert  Indian  weight  into  Avoirdupois  loeigkl. 

1.  Multiply  the  weight  in  seers  by  72  and  divide  by  35, 
the  result  will  be  the  weight    in  lbs.  avoirdupois. 

Bule  n.  To  convert  Avoirdupois  toeigit  into  Indian  weiffAt. 

1.  Multiply  the  weight  in  lbs.  avoirdupois  by  85  and 
divide  by  72,  the  result  will  be  the  weight  in  seers. 

2.  Or,  multiply  the  weight  in  cwts.  by  49  and  divide 
by  S6,  the  result  will  be  the  weight  in  maunds. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKEKT. 


468 


The  Ihla  or  Sicca  weight  to  be  equal  to  1809  grains 
Ttoj,  and  the  other  denominations  of  weight  to  be  de- 
rived from  this  unit,  according  to  the  following  scale. 

8  Buttees=l  Masha=    IS  Troy  grains* 
12  Ma8ha8=l  Tolah  =  186         do. 
80  Tolahs  (or  sicca  weight)=l  Seer=2i  lbs.  Troy. 
40  Seers    =1  Mun  (or  Bazar  Maund)  100  lbs.  Troy. 

These  last  mentioned  weights  having  been  disposed  of^ 
it  will  be  sufficient  to  give  the  following  Table  of  the 
large  or  Bazar  weights. 

5  Tolahs  or  Sicca  weight,  =  1  Chittack^  or  Grs.  Troy  900 

16  Chittacks =1  Seer or  fts.  Troy  2i 

40  Seer =  1  Mamid...or  lbs.  Troy  100 

The  weights  of  the  several  Presidencies  of  India,  Tra- 
vancore,  China,  and  England,  compared  with  the  new 
Indian  Maund  introduced  into  Bengal  by  Regulation  YII. 
of  1833,  and  adopted  in  the  New  Tariff  valuation  under 
the  Bombay  Presidency,    (10th  December,   1840). 


lb.  deels. 

The  Bombay  Maund  of  40  Seers  =  28 ")  Sa  ija 

42     „     =  29  400     S     ^^ 
Surat  Maund  of 40     „     =  81  833 

41  „     =  38  266 

42  „  =  39  200 
43i  „  =40  366 
44  „  =x  41  666 

The  Bengal  Factoir  Maund    ...  =  74  666 

„  Bazar  Maund =  82  133 

The  Madras  Maund = 


fc<»QO 


■I 


Mdt.  decls, 
r  2.  938775 
2.  798883 
2.  204081 
2.  156323 
2.  099125 
2.  038456 

2.  003710 
1.  102040 
1.  001855 

3.  291428 


lb, 


The  Bombay  Candy  of   20  Mds. 

22     „ 

The  Sural  Candy  of         20     „ 

21     „ 

The  Madras  Candy  of       20     ][ 
The  Travancore  Candy  of  20     „ 

The  China  Pecul 

The  English  Cwt 

The  English  Ton  of  20  Cwt 


dedfl, 

=  560 ^^ 

=  688 
=  616 
=  740  666 
=  784 
=  221  333 
=  500 
^  640 
=  133  333 
==  112 
=2240 


Mds.  dedi. 
f  6.  805555 
7.  145833 
7.  486111 
9.  074074 
9.  527777 
9.  281481 

6.  076388 

7.  777777 
1.  620370 

361111 


H4  0^30 


27.  222220 


Digitized  by 


Google  


464  INDIAX  DOMESTIC  ECOKOHT 

GOLDSMITHS'  WEIGHT  IN  GUZEBAT. 

dwts.   gn.  decls. 

5  ChawuU  (grains  of  rice)...l  Euttee 0     1  9166  Troy* 

3  Euttees 1  Waal 0    5  7600 

16  Waals 1  Guddeana.3  «0 

2  Guddeana,  or  32  Waals....!  Tolah 7  16 

PEABL  WEIGHT  IN  BOMBAY. 

*  dwts.   gn^  dedi. 

«0  Vasa , 1  Euttee 0     1  951    Troy. 

8  Euttees 1  Waal 0    5  858 

24  Euttees,  or  8  Waals 1  Tank 1  ««  824 

32  Waals : 1  Tolah 7  19  296 

DEY  MEASUKE. 

The   large  dry.  measure  in  Bombay   for  Salt  is   the  Phara 
containing, 

10^  Adholee =  1  Phara. 

100  Pharas =  1  Anna. 

16  Annas =  1  Eash  or  40  Tons. 

The  Phara  measure,  when  used,  is   struck  off  even  with 
a  run  by   a  rod  made  for  the  purpose. 

The   small   dry  measure  for    grains   is  the  seer,    whereof 

4  Seers =  1  Puheelee. 

17  Puheelees =  1  Phara. 

8  Pharas =  1  Candy. 

Batty   or  Eice   in   the  husk  is  reckoned  by   Moora  of  25 
Pharas. 

LIQUID  MEASUEE. 
The  liquid  seer  measure  used  in  Bombay  for  Spirits, 
Arrack,  and  Milk,  is  equal  in  weight  to  60  Eupees  or  1  lb. 
10  oz.  7  dwts.  12  grains  Troy.  The  maund  consists  of  40 
of  these  seers,  and  the  seer  is  subdivided  into  half  seers,  quar- 
ter seers,  and  latter  into  two  measures,  called  now-tanks,  or 
nine-tanks  tuchka.  The  measure  of  Oil  corresponds  with  the 
Maund  of  28  lbs. :  that  is,  the  contents  weigh  that,  and  the 
contents   of    the    seer    consequently    weigh    11    oz.   4    dwts. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANP   COOKERY. 


465 


THE  COMMERCIAL  WEIGHTS  OF  INDIA, 


COMPARED  WITH   THE   BRITISH    InDIAN   UnIT   OF   WeIGHT 
AND  WITH  THE   AVOIRDUPOIS   SysTEM   OF  ENGLAND, 

Selected  from  Prinsep^s  Tables. 


Place. 


Denomination  of  Weights. 


I, 


.a:§-s 


-2 

o 


•I  da  a 


AEKIDABilD 

{QMgerat.) 

AHHID^rUOOUK 


BlEODA 


(Browr*,) 


BiLfiAini   {Mah- 
Ttdta  Comiry.) 


BOICBIT 

Money   wei 
Commercial  wt. 


6run  Measure. 


BlOiCH 

{Omserat) 

CSINDOU 

CocHiH      {lHala 
Colombo 

iCeyUm) 


Tolah=82  Vals  or  96  Ruttees, 
Seer  (diTided  into  ^  and  i  seer.) 

Maundof  40  Seers 

Tolah=12  Massas  or  96  gonge.. 
Seer,  corn  wt.  (of  80   Ankoay 

Ba.) 

Maond  of  40  Seers 

Seer  of  capacity   (110    Ankosy 

Bs,) 

Mannd    do.  =  12     Pylces  =  48 

Seei« ., 

Seer    (pergunna)    42  ,£abashye 

R« 

Mannd  of  42  Seers. 

Candy  of  20  Maunds 

The    town   Seer  has  41   Baba- 

shye  Rs 

The    Sesamum    Md.    is   of   40 

Seers 

Seer  of  24  Shappoory  Rs.  (174 

grains.) 

Manndof  44  Seers 

Tolah  of  30  Canteray  Fanams.... 
Tank  of  24  Enttees  for  Pearls.... 

sight,  Tolah  (formerly  179  gnuns.) 

r  Seer  of  SO  pice  or  72  Tanks... 

^Maundof 40  Seers 

(.Candy  of  20  Maunds 

rSeerof2Tiprees 

J  Parah  of   16    Peilies  or  Ad- 

j     holies 

LCandy  of  80  Parahs 

Parah  Salt  measare,  6  gallons. 
Seer    for   liquids,    60    Bombay 

Rupees 

Maund  =  40  Seers,  of  40  Rs.. 

Maund  for  Grain,  41  do. 

Maund  for  Cotton,  4d  Seere....... 

Seer  of  74  Ankosy.  Rs.  10  Mas.... 

Seer  of  Capacity,  72  Tanks , 

Bi[aund,64  Seers 

:ala-  Maund  of  25  lbs.  of  42^  Seers.... 

Candy  or  Bahar 

Garce  (B2  cwt  2  qrs.  16^  lb.).. 
Mercalydiy  measure=  10  Seers.. 
Farah,   do 


lb.    oz.    dr. 
grs.  1U3.440 
1     0    14i 

42    4    13 
grs.    188.4 

1  15      8 
78  15    12 

2  11      6 

130    2 

1    015.8 

44    9    10 

S92    1      4 

1    0  9.5 

42    710.8 

9  8 
26    3    15 

176.25  grs. 
72  grs. 

180  grs. 


0 
28 
•560 


1  8  15 

0  0 

0  0 

0  113.2 


44  12  12.8 
358    6    4 
1607  6  c,i 

1  8    S\ 

40  8  12 

41  9    5 
43  9    9i 

1  13    8 

2  5    7 
149  12  — 

27    2  11 
500       — 
9256  8 
2.88  Gallons, 
5.76       do. 

l2 


Tolahs. 

1,075 

41.091 

1.047 

76.562 

105.425 
41.186 
40.286 

23.091 

0*.976 

0.400 

1.000 

27.222 

24!636 


60 
39.408 


71.702 
90.990 


Muns. 
0.5140 

0.9599 

1.5814 

0.5420 
10.8411 

(0.5036) 

0.5162 

0.3189 


0.3402 
6.8056 
0,3104 

0.5444 
4.3553 


0.7448 
0.4928 
0.5052 
0.6397 
(0.8963) 

1.8200 

0.3301 

6.0764 

112.4921 


Digitized  by 


Google 


466 


INDIAN  DOHttnC  KCONOMT  AND   COOKIKT. 


TlflBt. 


BttOSBiiiation  of  Wdghti. 


•E 


|i1 


lb.    OS.    dr. 

DuiXWAM  Kneba  Sem  of  2  Tanki 8    8| 

(JoMftay.)  Pacha  Seer  »  116  Madras  Bs.     9  IB  11^ 
Dhoia,    liqikid    Measnrs,     12 

Seers 

Qok  Quintal,  of  4  ArobM 120    6    6 

(JKaiakir.)Caiid7»ofS0Haimds 495 

Polamof  9  Pondicberry  Bnpees 

1  casb. 1624    Grains 

Mam 28    8    1 

ICaxoalou  Seer  of  24  Bj.  Bs.  42.79  Grains    0    9  18 

(ifo2ater.)Mamid  market  of  46  Seers 28    2    4 

Do.  Company's  (16  Rs.  hea- 
vier)    28    8  18 

Do.    for  sugar  »  40  Seers......   24    7    8 

Seer  of  oapadty  »  84  Bombay 

Bs — 

HfkumL  Seer  of  79  Ank.  Bs.  4  Mathas.     I  15    4| 

(Jkmtdiimgtnir,)  Seer  of  capacity    99  Ank.    Bs. 

2MaBhas 2    7    2t 

Seer  72  Tanks  or  Tolas  (80  Ank. 

Bs.) 1  15    8i 

Mannd  of  124  Seers,  for  Ghee, 

he 24  10 

Mannd  of  14  do.  for  Metals 27    9 

Pollah  of  120  Seers  for  Iron,  &e.  286    9 

Mannd  of  84  do.  for  Grain 94    9 

Olnnda  or  old  Dnteh  Ponnd. 1    1, 

)  Mannd  of  25  old  do 27    5    ^ 

Tolam  of  100  Pol.  for  Cotton.....    16  11  5.6 

Do.  forSpioes 15     97-8 

Tolah  of  12  Mashas.. 187.8  grains 

(aiicmie.)Seerof25Tblahs 0  15    0 

Mannd  of  40  Seen 87    8    0 

TkLUCHiuiT         Seer  of  80  Snrmt  Bnpees 0    8    9| 

(JCaM«*.)  Mannd  of  64  Seen 82  11    0 


Pooka. 


Qmuon 

r 


SUBAY 


8 
8 
8 


Tolabs. 
20.0 
116.0 


9.022 
23ii50 


84.000 
37.080 

05.018 

76.460 


42.635 


1.040 
87.456 

19.848 


(0.2488) 
(1.4488) 


1.6717 
6.0156 


0.2817 

0.841t 

0.3480 
O.3073 

(0.9504) 

(1.1877) 

0.9481 

0.2994 
0.3358 
2.8749 
1.1494 

0.^825 
0.2089 
0.1884 


(0 


.  «57) 
[0.4558) 
[0J8481) 
(0^72) 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTER  XXX. 


BENGAL  PRICE  CURRENT, 


ATBK&eX   OP  PSICK8  POK  THBBB  MOKTHS   OP  TH»  TBA»  1848. 


ARTICLES. 

PRICES. 

Jan, 

Mat. 

Nov. 

Bread,  Bitteri 
lilk,  te. 

Bread.  1st  sort,  9 

double  loaves  for 

2d  do.  10  do.  do 

Sddo.  19  do.  do. 

Biscuit,  1st  sort,  2 

seers  for 

2d  do.    8  seers 
for 

B.  A.  p.    B.  A.  p. 

1    0  0@0    0  0 
1 .  0  0^0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 

10  0    0    00 

10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 

10  0    0    0  0 
100000 
10  0    0    0  0 

10  0    0    0  0 

0  12  0    1    10 

0  0  6    0    0  0 

10  0    0    0  0 

1  0  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 

10  0  0  0  0 

4    0  0    5    0  0 

B.  A.  p.     B.  A.  P. 

1    0  0@0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 

10  0    0    0  0 

10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 

10  0  0  0  0 

10  0    0    0  0 

10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    00 

10  0    0    0  0 

0  12  0    I    10 

0    0  6    0    0  0 

10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    5    0  0 

B.  A.  ?.     B.  A.  ?. 

1    0  0@0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    00 

100    0    00 

10  0    0    0  0 

3d  do.  4  seers  for 
Muffins,     16  for... 
Crumpets,  16  for... 
Butter,  Ist  sort,  13 

curchas  for. 

2d.  do.    18  do. 

8d.  do.    30  do. 

curcha  1st  sort  4 

curchas  for.... 

preserved,      per 

5eer 

Butter  milk,  good, 
per  seer.  

10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 
100000 

10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 

10  0    0    0  0 

0  12  0    0    0  0 

0    06000 

MiUk,  cow,  1st  sort 

8  seers  for 

5d  do.  10  do.  do.] 
^3d  do.  12  do.  do. 
dHuted,  16do.do. 
goat,  4  do.    do. 
ass,     1  do.    do. 

10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    00 
10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    00 
4    0  0    5    00 

Digitized  by 


Google 


468 


INDUN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 


ARTICLES. 


Bnkher's  leat. 


Tenison. 

Procurable,     if 
whole    Deer    be 
subscribed       for 

Hind  quarters  ea... 

Fore  quarters,  do. 

Head  and  Neck .. 


Beef. 

Sirloins,    1st  sort, 

each 

2d  4o.  do. 
Ribs,  1st  sort,  each. 
Ribs,  2d  do.  do... 
Rumps,     1st  sort, 

each 

2d  do.  do 
Half    Rump,     1st 

sort,  each 

2d  do.  do 
Rump  Steaks,   1st 

sort,  each , 

2d  do.  do. 
Rumps,    1st    sort, 

each 

2d  do.  do. 
Briskets,   1st  sort, 

each 

2d    do.      do. 

Rounds,    1st  sort, 

each  as  to  size... 

2d    do.      do. 

£dge-bone,        1st 

sort,  each 

2d  do.  do. 
Shin  Beef,        1st 

sort,  each 

2d  do.  do 
Head  (no  Tongue) 

each 

Paktes,    1st    sort, 

-  each 

Tails,  per  dozen... 


PRICES. 


J^n. 


K.   A.   F.    B.   A.   P. 


K.  A.   P.    K.   A.   P. 


Mat. 


R.  A.    P.   K.   A.   P. 


18     0  0@20  0  OlS    0  0@20  0  0 

14    0  0     16  0  0 14    0  0    16  0  0 

280      300280      300 


3  12  0 
18  0 
2  12  0 

1  10  0 

4  4  0 

2  0  0 

2  12  0 

1  4  0 

0  12  0 

0  7  0 

3  8  0 

2  0  0 

3  0  0 
14  0 

3    0  0 

18  0 

1  12  0 
10  0 

0  3  6 
0    19 


4    0  Oi  3 
1  12  0 
3     0  0 
1  12  0 


4    8  0 

2  2  0 

3  0  0 

1  8  0 

0  14  0 

0  7  6 

4  00 

2  4  0 

3  4  0 
18  0 

3    4  0 

1  12  0 

1  13  0 
12  0 

0    3  0 
0    2  0 


0    3  6    0    4  0 


0    0  6 
0    3  0 


0    0  0 
0    4  0 


8  0 
18  0 
2  40 
1  10  0 


3  12  0 

1  12  0 

2  8  0 
1  12  0 


4    4  0 
2    0  0 

2  8  0 
140 

0  12  0 

0  7  0 

3  8  0 
2    0  0 

2    8  0 
14  0 

2    4  0 

14  0 

1  12  0 
1     0  0 

0    3  6 
0    19 


8  0 
2  0 

0  0 
8  0 


0  14  0 
0    7  0 


0  0 

40 


2  12  0 
18  0 


8  0 
8  0 


14  0 
1  12  0 

0    4  C 
0    2  0 


0    3  6    0    4  0 


0    0  6 
0    3  0 


0    0  0 
0    4  0 


Nov. 


18 
14 


0  0^20  0  0 
0  0  16  0  0 
8  0      3  0  0 


3  12  0  4    0  0 

1  8  0  1  12  0 

2  8  0  2  12  0 
1    8  0  1  10  0 


4  0 
0  0 

4  0 
00 


8  0 

2  0 

8  0 

2  0 


0  12  0 
0    7  0 


8  0 
8  0 


2    4  0 
0  14  0 


0  14  0 

0  7  6 

3    0  0 

1  12  0 

2  8  0 
0  15  0 


4  0 
0  0 

12  0 
0  0 


8  0 
2  0 

13  0 
2  0 


0  3  6  0  3  9 

0  19  0  2  0 

0  3  6  0  4  0 

0  0  6  0  0  0 

0  3  0  0  0  0 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKEKT. 


469 


ARTICLES. 


Tongue,   1st   sort, 

each 

3d      do.     do. 

Heart,  1st  sort,  ea. 

2d     do.     do. 

Kidneys  each. 

Feet,     good     per 

dozen , 

Suet,  per  seer. 


B.  A.  p.    K.  A.  p. 


Veil-lilf 
firowi^  or  lye. 

Hind-Quarters, 
1st  sort,  each.... 
2d.     do.    do 
Fore  Quarters,  1st 

sort,  each 

2d.    do.     do 

Leg,  1st  sort,  each. 

2d.     do.    do. 

Loin,  1st  sort,  each 

2d     do.     do. 

Shoulder,  1st  sort, 

each 

2d    do.     do., 
Breast,    1st     sort 

each 

2d     do.     do. 
Sveet  Bread,    1st 

sort,  each 

Sweet    Bread,    2d 

sort,  each 

Head  each. 

Feet,  4  for 


Teal-SMall. 

Hind  Quarters, 
1st  sort,  each.. 

2d     do.     do. 

Fore  Quarters,  1st 

sort,  each 

2d     do.      do. 
Leg,  1st  sort,  each. 

2d     do.     do. 
Loin,  1st  sort,  each, 

2d     do.     do. 


PRICES. 


Jan. 


5  0@0 
3  0  0 
10  0 
10  0 
0  3    0 


6  0 
3  6 
1  3 
0  0 
0  0 


0    3  0    0    3  6 

0    7  6    0    8  0 


1  10  0 
0  U  0 


0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

0 
0 


5  0 
3  0 


0    6  0 
0    4  6 


0    2  6    0    3  0 


1  9 
6  6 
6  0 


10  0 
0  10  0 


12  0 
0  11  0 


70 

4  0 

8  0 

5  0 

9  0 
4  0 


7  6 
4  6 
9  0 
6  0 
10  6 
4  tf 


May. 


R.  A.   P.     B.   A.  P. 

0  5  0@0  6  0 

0  3  0    0  3  6 

0  19    0  13 

0  10    0  0  0 

0  0  3    0  0  0 


3  0 

7  6 


3  6 
8  0 


18  0 
0  13  0 


1  10  0 
0  14  0 


10 

6 

12 

7 

12 
6 


4  6 
0  0 


11 
6 

14 
8 

14 
7 


5  0 
3  0 


0    5  6 
0    3  6 


0    6  0 
0    4  6 


0    2  6    0    3  0 


1  6 
6  0 
5  0 


1  9 
6  6 
5  6 


10  0 

0  10  0 


12  0 
0  11  0 


76 
4  6 
9  0 
6  0 
10  6 
4  6 


Nov. 


B.  A.  P.      B.  A.   P. 

0  5  0@0  6  0 
0  3  0  0  3  6 
0  19  0  13 
0  10  0  0  0 
0    0  3    0    0  0 


3  0 

7  6 


3  6 

8  0 


18  0 
0  13  0 


1  10  0 
0  14  0 


4  6 
0  0 


5  0 
3  0 


0    5  6    0    6  0 
0    3  6    0    4  6 

0    2  6    0    3  0 


1  6 
6  0 
5  0 


1  9 
6  6 
5  6 


0  0 
10  0 


12  0 
0  11  0 


7  6 
4  6 
9  0 
6  0 
10  6 
4  6 


Digitized  by 


Google 


470 


INDIAN   DOMCSnC  tCONOMT 


ARTICLES. 


PRICES. 


Jan. 


Shoulder,  1st  sort, 
each 

2d  do.  do. 
Breast,  Istsort.ea- 

2d     do.      do. 

Sweet  Breadt    Ist 

sort,  each 

2d     do.      do 

Head,  each 

ITect,  4  for. 


K.  A.  P.      &.  A.  P. 


Pitii  Sheep 

lltttB. 

Hind  Quarters,  1st 
flort,  each 

2d     do.     do. 

Fore-Quarters,   1st 

sort  each 

2d     do.     do 
Saddle«l8tsort,  ea. 

2a     do.     do. 
Leg,  1st  sort,  each 

2d     do.     do 
Loin,  1st  sort,  each 

2d     do.     do. 

Shoulder,  1st  sort, 

each 

2d    do.      do 
Breast,  Ist  sort,  ea. 

2d     do.     do. 
Tonffue,  per  dozen 

Neck,  each 

Head  and  Eeet... 
Heart,  per  pair... 
Heart  and  Liver, 

per    pair 

Suet,  per  seer  ... 


3  0^0 

3  0^0 

4  0    0 
3  0    0 


3  6 

3  A 

4  6 
3  6 


UiBtry  Sheep 
littoB. 

Hind  Quarters,  1st 

sort,  each 

2d     do.     do. 
Vore-Quarten,  1st 

sort,  each 

2d     do.     do. 

Saddle,  1st  sort,  ea 

2d     do.     do. 


0  2  0  0  2  6 

0  2  0  0  0  0 

0  6  6  0  6  0 

0  5  0  0  5  6 


Mat. 


R.  A.   p.      B.  A.   P. 


40 
8  0 


2  0 
8  0 
8  0 
14  0 
5  6 

0  9 

1  6 
0  6 

0  9 
70 


4 
2 

3 
1 
6 
2 
2 
1 
2 
1 

1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

0 
0 


0  0 
8  0 


8 
4 
0 
12 
4 
0 
2 
2 

4 
10 
10 
15 

6 

1 

0 

0 

0  0 

8  0 


8  0@0 

3  0^0 

4  0    0 
3  0    0 


3  6 

3  6 

4  6 
3  6 


2  0  0  2  6 

2  0  0  0  0 

6  6  0  6  0 

5  0  0  6  6 


Nov. 


K.  A.   P.  11.  A.    P. 

0  3  0@0  3  6 

0  3  0  0  3  6 

0  4  0  0  4  6 

0  3  0  0  3  6 

0  2  0  0  2  6 

0  2  0  0  0  0 

0  5  6  0  6  0 

0  5  0  0  5  6 


10  0 
2  0 


1  10  6 
14  0 


4 
2 

2 
1 
5 
2 
2 
0 
2 
0 

1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

0 
0 


4  0 

8  0 


8  0 
8  0 


12 
2 

12 
8 
0 

14 
0 

14 

2 
8 
8 
14 
5 
0 
1 
1 


3    8 

1  4 
6    0 

2  12 
2    4 

1  0 

2  2 
1    2 


09 
7  0 


40 

10  0 
10*0 
15  0 

6 

1 

0 

0  0 


0  0) 
8  0 


10  0 
2  0 


1  10  6 

14  0 


140160 

0  12  0    0  13  0 

1  12  0    1  14  0 
10  0    12  0 


14  0  16  0 

0  12  0  0  13  0 

1  12  0  1  14  0 
10  0  12  0 


40 

8  0 


2  0 
8  0 


4 

2 

3 
1 

6 
2 
2 
1 
2 
1 

1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 


0  0 
8  0 

8  0 
4  0 
0  0 
12  0 
40 

0  0 
2  0 
2  0 

4  0 

10  0 

10  0 

15  0 

6  0 

1  0 
0  0 
0  0 


0    0  9    0    0  0 
0    7  0    0    8  0 


10  0 
2  0 


1  10  6 
1^    40 


140160 

0  12  0    0  13  0 

1  12  0    1  14  0 
1    00    1    2  <J 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANJ}  COOKBAT. 


471 


ARTICLES. 


Leg,  Ist  sort,  each. 

Sd  do.  do. 
Loin,  Ist  sort,  each. 

8d  do.  do. 
Shoulder,  lstst«ea. 

Sd  do.  do, 
Breast,  1st  sort,  ea. 

2d  do.  do. 
Tongues,  per  doz. 

Keck,  each 

Head  and  Feet 

Heart,  each 

Heart  ft  Liver  pr  pr. 
Suet,  per  seer 


Coat  IntteB. 


1st 


Hind  Quarter, 
sort,  each 

2d    do.      do, 

Pore-Qoarters,   1st 

sort,  each 

2d    do.      do. 
Saddle,  Istsort,  ea. 

2d    do.       do. 
Leg,  1st  sort,  each. 

2d    do.      do. 
Loin,  Ist  sort,  each. 

2d    do.      do. 
Shbnlder,lst  sort  ea 

2d    do.      do. 
Breast,  1st  sort  ea. 

2d    do.      do. 

Neck,  each 

Head  and  feet... 
Heart,  per  pair. 
Heart   and   Liver, 

per  pair .... 
Suet,  per  seer, 


loLmk — Tknt 
Parte  firtwa. 

Hind  Quarters,  1st 

aort,  each 

2d    do.      do 
Fore-Quarters,   Ist 

soH,  each 

2d    do.      do. 


PBICES. 


Jan. 


B.  A.  p.    B.  A.  p. 


18  0@0 
8  0  0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
9 
6 
6 


6 


3  0 

8  0 


QUO 
0    9  0 

0  14  0 
0    9  0 


0  10  0 
0    6  0 


14 
9 

14 
6 
9 
5 

14 
8 
6 
1 
1 
0 
1 


Mat. 


R.  A.  P.      B.  A.  P. 


6  0 


0  11  0 
0    7  0 


0  0 
0  0 


10  0 
0  10  0 

10  0 
0  10  0 


13  0(E0 
8  0  0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
9 
6 
6 
3 
6 


13 
5 
8 
4 

13 
6 
6 
0 
1 
0 
1 
5 


0  10  0 
0    6  0 


3  0 
8  0 


0  14  0 
0    9  0 

0  14  0 
0    9  0 


0  11  0 
0    7  0 


0  0 
0  0 


10  0 
0  10  0 

10  0 
0  10  0 


Nov. 


B.  A.  p.      B.  A.  p. 


13  0@0  11 
8  0    0    9 


0  10  0 
0    6  0 


lo 

6 
0 

8 

10 

6 

10 
4 
5 
3 
8 
4 
0 
1 
0 


3  0 
8  0 


0  14  0 
0    9  0 

0  14  0 
0    9  0 


0  11  0 
0    7  0 


0  0 
0  0 


10  0 
0  10  0 

10  0 
0  10  0 


Digitized  by 


Google 


472 


INDIAN    DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 


ARTICLES, 


Neck,  each 0  0  6@0 

Head  and  Feet 0  13    0 

Heart   and  Liver, 

per  pair 0  0  9 


PRICES. 


Jan. 


May. 


K.  A,  P.      R.  A.  P.    E.  A.  P.      R.  A.  P. 


Kid— SmII 
SickiBg. 

Hind  Quarters,  1st 

sort,  each 

2d  do.  do. 

Eore- Quarters, 
1st  sort,  each. 
2d  do.    do. 

Neck,  each 

Head  and  Eeet... 

Heart   and  Liver, 
per  pair......... 


Kid— Three 
Parts  firown. 

Hind -Quarters, 
1st  sort,  each.., 
2d  do.  do..., 

Fore-Quarters, 
1st  sort,  each.... 
2d  do.  do.... 

Neck,  each 

Head  and  Feet 

Heart    and  Liver, 
per  pair 


Pork. 

Hind-Quarters, 
1st  sort,  each... 
2d  do.  do... 
Fore-Quarters, 
1st  sort,  each.. 
2d  do.   do... 
Leg,  1st  sort,  each. 
2d  do.  do........ 

Loin,  1st  sort  each, 

2d  do.  do. 

Shoulder,  1st  sort, 

each 

2d  do  do... 


0  0 
0  0 


0    0  0 


3  9 

3  0 

4  0 
3  0 

0  3 

1  3 


4  0 
3  0 


0    0  6@0    0  0 
0    13    0    0  0 

0    0  9    0    0  0 


4  0 

3  3 

4  6   0    4 
0  0   0    3 


0  0 
0  0 


0    0  9    0    0  0 


4  6 
3  6 


0    0  9    0    0  0 


18  0 

1  10  0 

12  0 

140 

18  0 

1  10  0 

12  0 

14  0 

0  14  0 

10  0 

0  10  0 

0  12  0 

0  12  0 

1     0  0 

0    8  0 

0  10  0 

10  0 
0  10  0 


3  9 
3  0 


4  0 
3  0 

3  0 
3  0 

0  6 

1  3 


4  0 
3  3 


0    0  9    0    0  0 


0 
0 

0 
0 
0 
0 


4  6 
3  6 


0    0  9    0    0  0 


8  0 
2  0 


18  0 
12  0 
0  14  0 
0  10  0 
0  12  0 
0    8  0 

0  12  0 
0    8  0 


10  0 
4  0 

10  0 
4  0 
0  0 

12  0 
0  0 

10  0 


10  0 
0  10  0 


Nov. 


Br.  A.  P.      K.  A.  P. 


0  6^0    0  0 

1  3    0    0  0 


0    0  9    0    0  0 


3  9 

3  0 

4  0 
3  0 

0  3 

1  3 


4  0 
3  0 

3  0 
3  0 

0  6 

1  3 


0 
0 

0 
0 
0 
0 


4  0 

3  3 

4  6 
0  0 
0  0 
0  0 


0    0  9    0    0  0 


4  6 

3  6 

3  6 

3  6 

0  0 

0  0 


0    0  9    0    0  0 


8  0 
2  0 


1  10  0 
1    4  0 


18  0 
12  0 
0  14  0 
0  10  0 
0  12  0 
0    8  0 

0  12  0 
0    8  0 


10  0 
4  0 
0  0 

12  0 
0  0 

10  0 


1    0  0 
0  10  0 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKIEY. 


473 


ARTICLES. 


PRICES. 


Jajx. 


Mat. 


Nov. 


do.. 


Breast^    Ist   sort, 

each 

2d  do. 
Head,  each 
Trotters,        good, 

per  dozen 
Pigs,  roasting,  each 

3d  sort  do. 
Hogs'   Lard,    per 

maund 


B.  A.  p.     s.  A.  F. 


0  13  0@1  0  0 
0  8  0  0  10  0 
0    4  0    0    5  0 


0  3  0 
14  0 
0  14  0 


C^iBtry  Corned 
ni  Salted  leat 

Beer.--flroM 
Rathes. 

Rounds,  Ist   sort, 

each 

2d  do.  do.. 
Briskets,   1st  sort, 

each 

2d  do.  do... 
Homps,   1st   sort^ 

eacn 

2d  do.  do... 
Tongue,   1st   sort, 

each 

2d  do.  do 

Pork  froM 
Biropeans. 

Leg,  1st  sort,  each 

Shoulder,     do 

Ribs,  spare,  do 

ChedLS,  corned,  ea. 
Bacon,  Istst.prJib. 
Sausages,  Bologna. 

per  lb 

Fresh,  1st  St.  pr.  sr. 

Poultry. 

Turkeys,  cook,  De- 
see  full  roasting, 

each 

2d  sort,  do.. 


3    4  0 

1  12  0 

2  6  0 
16  0 


3' 
2 

3 

1 


8  0 
8  0 

8  0 
5  0 


4  0 
4  0 
8  0 
0  0 
8  0 


0  13  0 
10  0 


1 
1 
2 
0 
0 

0 
0 


8  0  10 
40    5 


B.    A.  P.     B.  A.  P. 


0  13  0(^1     0  0 

0    8  0    0  10  0 
0    4  0    0    5  0 


40 
8  0 
0  0 


13    0  0  14    0  0 


8  0 
0  0 

0  0 
8  0 

0  0 
0  0 


0  10  0 
0    6  0 


8  0 
8  0 
0  0 
0  0 
0  0 

0  0 
0  0 


8  0 
40 


B.   A.  p.     B.  A.  P. 


3  0 

4  0 

14  0 


40 
8  0 
0  0 


0  0 

4  0 

0  0 
6  0 

8  0 
8  0 

8  0 

5  0 


4  0 
4  0 
8  0 
0  0 

8  0 


0  12  0 

10  0 


10 
5 


8  0  10 
4  0    5 

u9 


0  12  d@i 
0  8  0^0 
0    4  0    0 

0    3  0    0 

14  0  1 
0  14  0    1 


13    0  0  14    0  0 


40 
8  0 

4  0 
8  0 

0  0 

0  0 


0  10  0 

0    6  0 


8  0 
8  0 
0  0 
0  0 
0  0 

0  0 
0  0 


8  0 
4  0 


0  0 
0  0 
5  0 

40 
8  0 
0  0 


13    0  0  14    0  0 


8  0 

4  0 

6  0 
6  0 

8  0 
8  0 

8  0 

5  0 


4  0 
4  0 
8  0 
0  0 
8  0 


11 
7 


0  13  0 

10  0 


12  0 
8  0 

0  0 
0  0 

0  0 
0  0 


0  10  0 
0    6  0 


8  0  12 
4  0    7 


8  0 
8  0 
0  0 
0  0 
00 

0  0 
0  0 


0  0 

8  0 


Digitized  by 


Google 


474 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 


AETICLES. 


Hen  turkeys,  full 
roasting,  each.... 
do.  2d  sort«  ea... 

Turkeys,  cock, 
Chittagong  *  full 
roasting,  each.... 

Hen  do.  *  full 
roasting,  each.. 

Geese,  full  grown, 
each 

Geese,  half-grown, 
each 

Fowls,  Chittagong, 
extra  large  size, 

each 

full  roasting,  do< 
Country,  do.  do. 
Half-grown,  do, 
Kurcha,  1st  st. 
Chickens,  small 

Ducks,  full  roast- 
ing, do. 

2d  sort  do 

Pigeons,  1st  sort, 
per  pair 

Hare,  full  grown, 
each 

Rabbits,  full  grown, 
each 


PRICES. 


Jan. 


E.  A.  p.    E.  A.  p. 

5     0  0@5     8  0 
4    6  0    4    8  0 


5     8  0  6    0  0 

3    0  0  3    4  0 

1    9  0  1  10  0 

15  0  160 


0  11  0  0  32  0 

0    9  0  0  10  0 

0    7  6  0    8  0 

0    3  6  0    4  0 


2  0 
1  6 


0    2  3 
0,   1  9 


0    6  0  0    6  6 

0    3  6  0    4  0 

0    3  0  0    3  3 

0    0  0  0    0  0 

19  0  10  0 


•  This  kind  of  Turkey  can  never  be 
had  in  good  condition;  though  apparent- 
ly plump,  yet  when  stript  oi  their  fea- 
thers, they  scarcely  exceed  in  size  a  large 
roasting  fowl. 

Fhh. 

(Such  as  are  now  procurable.) 

Sable    Fish,    with 

Roes,  1st  8ort,ea.  0  0  0  0  0  0 

2d     do.  do...  0  0  Q  0  0  0 

Mangoe-Pish  with 

Roes,  1st  sort...  0  0  0  0  0  0 

2d  sort  do.  do.  0  0  0  0  0  0 

Roo-ee,  krge,  per 

seer 0  4  0  0  5  0 

Cutla,  large  do 0  4  0  0  5  0 

Mirgel,  do.  do 0  4  0  0  0  0 

Ko^e,  per  corge...  0  3  0  0  3  6 


May. 


B.    A.  P.     IL.  A.  P. 

5    0  0^5     8  0 
4    0  0    4    6  0 


5     8  0  6    0  0 

3    0  0  3    4  0 

1    9  0  J  10  0 

15  0  16  0 


0  11  0 
0  9  0 
0  7  6 
0  3  6 
0  2  0 
0    16 


0  12  0 
0  10  0 
0  8  0 
0  4  0 
0  2  3 
0    19 


0    6  0  0    6  6 

0    3  6  0    4  0 

0    3  0  0    3  3 

0    0  0  0    0  0 

19  0  10  0 


0  0 
0  0 

0  0 
0  0 


0  0 

0  0 

0  0 

0  0 


0  4  0  0  6  0 

0  4  0  0  5  0 

0  4  0  0  0  0 

0  3  0  0  3  6 


Nov. 


T^ 


E.    A.  P.      E.  A.  P. 

5     0  0@5     8  0 
4    6  0    4     8  0 


0    0  0  0     00 

0    0  0  0     0  0 

14  0  16  0 

12  0  13  0 


11  0 
9  0 
7  6 
3  6 
2  0 
1  6 


12  0 
10  0 
8  0 
40 
2  3 
1  9 


0    6  0  0    6  6 

0    3  6  0    4  0 

0    3  0  0    3  3 

0    0  0  0    0  0 

19  0  10  0 


0  0 

0  0 

0  0 

0  0 


0  0 

0  0 

O  0 

0  0 


0  4  0  0  5  0 

0  4  0  0  5  0 

0  4  0  0  0  0 

0  3  0  0  3  G 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND     COOKERY. 


475 


ARTICLES. 


Prawns,  Bagda,  1st 
sort,  per  corge... 
Mocha,  large  4  for, 
Crabs,  1st  st.  4  for 
Cookup,  (Bekhtee) 

plentiful 

Moonjee  (Mullets) 
do 


PRICES. 


Jan. 


K.  A.  p.      B.  A.  P. 

0  1  9@0  2  0 
0  2  0  0  3  0 
0    10    0    16 


Tareabungun,      Bonspatch,  Bhola, 

Tongra,    Pankal  Kankcela,    Shoil 

Bvne    Singee,    Chetole,  Fungus, 
Cningree,  &c.  &c.  procurable. 

(Such  as  are  now  procurable.) 

Oranges,  1st  st.  per 

corge 0  2  9  0  3  0 

2d  do.  do 0  2  0  0  2  3 

Almonds,      green, 

per  100 0  13  0  16 

Cocoanuts,     large, 

ripe,  each 0  06  0  00 

green,  per  pair...  0  0  3  0  0  6 
Cucumbers,    smsdl 

2  and  3  for.......  0  0  3  0  0  0 

Custard  Apples,  1st 

sort,  4  lor 0  3  0  0  3  3 

Girkins,  per  corge.  0  0  0  0  0  0 
Groaves,    1st   sort, 

per  corge 0  3  6  0  3  6 

2d  do.  do 0  2  0  0  2  3 

Country  Olives,  1st 

sort,  per  corge...  0  0  0  0  0  0 
Leaches,  Ist  sort, 

per  100 0  0  0  0  0  0 

2d  do.  do 0  0  0  0  5  0 

Lemon  patee,  2  and 

3  for 0  0  3  0  0  3 

2d  do.  3  and4for.  0  0  3  0  0  0 
Eipe  Mangoes,  1st 

sort,  per  corge...  0  00  0  00 

2d  sort,  do....  0  0  0  0  0  0 

Bombay   Mangoes, 

1st  St.  0  and  0  for  0  00  0  00 

2d  do.  3  and  0  for  6  0  0  0  0  0 

Papiahs,  Ist  st.  ea.  0  0  9  0  13 


May. 


E.  A.   p.     E.  A.  P. 

0  1  9@0  2  0 
0  2  0  0  3  0 
0    10    0    1 


0  0    0 
0  0    0 


0  0 
0  0 


0    13    0    16 


0  6    0 
0  3    0 


0  0 
0  6 


0    0  3     0     0  0 


0  0  0 

0  0  0 

3  6  0 

2  0  0 


0  0 
0  0 

3  0 
2  3 


0    0  0    0    0  0 


0  0  0 

0  0  0 

0  3  0 

0  3  0 

0  0  0 

0  0  0 

0  0  0 

0  6  0 

0  9  0 


0  0 
5  0 

0  6 
0  0 

0  0 
0  0 

0  0 

0  0 

1  3 


Nov. 


E.  A.  P.      E.  A.  P. 


1  9@0     2   0 

2  0    0    3  0 

10    0    16 


0  0     0 
0  0     0 


0  0 
0  0 


0     0  0     0     0  0 


0  6    0 
0  3    0 


0  0 
0  6 


0    0  3     0    0  0 


3  0  0 

0  0  0 

3  6  0 

2  0  0 


3  3 
0  0 

3  6 
2  3 


0    0  0    0    0  0 


0  0  0 

0  0  0 

0  3  0 

0  3  0 

0  0  0 

0  0  0 

0  0  0 

0  0  0 

0  9  0 


0  0 

6  0 

0  3 

0  0 

0  0 

0  0 

0  0 

0  0 

1  3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


476 


INDIAN    DOVSaTIO   ISCONOHT 


ARTICLES, 


Plautains,  1st  sort, 

per  bunch 

2d  do.  do... 
Pomegranates, 

Patna,  each... 
Pamplenose,  each.. 
Hose  Apples,    1st 

sort,  per  corgc... 

2d  do.  do 

Sugar  Canes,  each 
Water-melons,    Ist 

sort,  each 


Vegetables. 

(Snch  as  are  now 

procurable.) 
Asparagus,  1st  sort, 

per  100..... 

Brmjal6>  1st  sort, 

3  and  4  for.... 
dd  do.  5  and  6  for 
Cauliflower,       1st 

sort,  each 

2d  do.  do... 
French  Beans,  per 

seer 

Lettuce  0  and  0  for 
Ifove  Apples,  (Bee- 

laty  Bygun)   30 

for 

Ochres     Dharose, 

20  for 

Onions,    young,    2 

bundles  for.... 

•  Oorchau,  per  seer.. 

Peas,    Marrowfat, 

per  seer.... 

Beelaty,     do.    do. 
Dutch,       do.    do. 

Bunglaw 

Plantains,  green  3 

and  4  for 

Potatoes,,  lat  sort, 

per  seer 

2d  do.  do... 

3d  do.  do... 

Patna,   do.  do... 


PRICES. 


Jan. 


R.  A.  P.      B.  A.  P. 


0    1  6@0    2  0 
0    0  6    0    0  9 


4  0 
0  0 

3  6 
2  0 
0  3 


0 
0 

0 
0 
0 


5  0 
0  0 

4  0 
2  6 
0  0 


02003  0030030 


OQOOOOQOOaOQ 


0  0  3 

0  0  3 

0  3  0 

0  10 

0  2  0 

0  0  3 


0  0 

0  0 

a  6 

1  6 

2  6 
0  0 


0    0  3    0    0  0 
(^06000 


0  3 

0  0 

1  3 
1  0 
0  6 
Q3 


0.0 

0  0 

1  6 
0  0 
0  0 
0  0 


a  03  0  0  0 


1  0 
09 

eto 

00 


13 
1  3 
0  0 
00 


Mat. 


B.  A.  P.      E.  A.  P. 


1  6@0 
0  6    0 


4  0 

0  0 

3  6 
2  0 
0  3 


03 

0  0 


1  0 
09 
0  0 
00 


2  0 
0  9 

5  0 
0  0 

4  0 

3  6 
0  0 


0  0  3  0  0  0 

0  03  0  00 

0  0  0  0  0  0 

0  00  0  0  0 

0  3  9  0  4  0 

0  0  3  0  0  0 


0    0  3    0    0  0 
0    0  6    0    0  0 


0  0 
0  0 


a  0  0  o  0  0 

0  0  0  0  0  0 

0  O  0  0  0  0 

0  00  0  00 

0  0  3  0  0  Q 


1 
1 
ooj 

0 


Nov. 


B.  A.  p.      B.  A.  p. 


1  6@0 
0  6    0 


4  0 
0  0 

3  6 
2  0 
0  3 


03 
0  0 


2  0 

0  9 

5  0 

0  0 

4  0 

2  6 

0  0 


0    2  0    0    3  0 


10  0    14  0 


0  0  3  0 

0  0  3  0 

0  0  0  0 

0  0  0  0 

0  7  0  0 

0  03  0 


1  6 
1  0 
00 
0  0 


0  0 
0  0 

00 
0  0 

80 
00 


0  oa  0  00 
0  0  a  0  0  0 


00 
00 


0  0  0  0  0  0 

0  0  0  0  0  0 

0  0  0  0  0  0 

0  0  0  0  0  0 

0  0  3  0  0  0 


1  6 
1  6 
00 
0  0 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COQKK&Y. 


477 


ARTICLES. 


&.  A.   p.      B.  A.  P. 


Chirra       Poonjee, 
1st  sort,  per  aeen 
2d  do.  do.... 

3d  do.  do 

sweet,  per  seer, 
PhIwuI,  or  potole, 

per  do 

Pmnpkins,  e»ch  as 

to  size 

sweet  do.  do. 
Badishes,  4  for.... 

fireeis. 

Water  Cressesj 
scaree  —  Ghowlie 
Sauge,  Culmce 
do.  PuHa  do 
&c.  &c  plenti- 
ful. 

Sweet  lerhfl. 

Thyme,  Parsley, 
Celerj^,  Mint,  Sage, 
Dhoma,  Snlpa  Met- 
tie,  &c.  &c.  pro- 
curable. 

WiMS^Spfarits^fte. 

Alcy      Hodgson's, 

perhhd , 

per  ' 


Allsopp's  per  hhd 
per  doz 

Brandy,  Gognao 
pergpllou 

C^et,  English, 
Carbonell's,   per 


IVench,  per  doz.. 
Geneva,  per  gal... 
Madeira,  per  pipe, 

per  dozen 

Fort,  quartsj    per 

dozen 

pints    do... 


PRICES. 


Jan. 


0  0  o@a  0  0 

0  0  0    0    0  0 

0  0  0    0    0  0 

0  0  0    0    0  0 

0  0  0    0    0  0 


0  3 

1  0 
0  0 


00 
0  0 
00 
00 


70  0  0 


3    7  0      3  8  0 


40 
6 

200 

12 

12 
7 


30  0  0 


4  0 
500  0  0 
24  0  0 


Mat. 


K,  A.   p.      ».  A.   P. 


0    0  0@0  0  0 

0    0  0    0  0  0 

0    0  0    0  0  0 

0    0  0    0  0  0 

0    0  0    0  0  0 


0  3 

1  0 
0  0 


Q  6 
1  6 
Q  0 


50  0  0  70  0  0 

5  0  0  9  0  0 

50  0  0  70  0  0 

4  0  0  4  4  0 

3  7  0  3    8  0 


0  0  040    0  0 

6    0  0 

2    0  0 

200  0  0 

12    0  0 


24  0  012 
21  0  0  7 


0  0 
0  0 


0    0  0 

30  0  0 

2  4  0 

500  0  0 

25  0  0 

24  0  0 
12  0  0 


Nov. 


R.  A.  P.      B.  A.  P. 


0  0  0@0  0  0 

0  0  0     0  0  0 

0  0  0    0  0  0 

0  0  0    0  0  0 

0  10    0  13 


0  3  0  0  6 
10  0  16 
0  0    0    0  0 


50 

5 

50 

4 


70  0  0 
9  0  0 

70  0  0 
4  00 


3    7  0    3    8  0 


40    0  0 

6    0  0 

2    OO 

200  0  0 

12    0  0 


12 
7 


0  0 
0  0 


0 

30 

2 

500 

24 

24 
12 


Digitized  by 


Google 


478 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 


ARTICLES. 


Sherry,  good,    per 

pipe.-; 

per  doz... 


B.  A.   P.    B.   A.   F. 

450  0  0@600  0  0 
12  0  0    14  0  0 


liseellaneens 
Articles. 


Ajwan,  per  seer 

Almonds,  per  md 

per  seer. 

Allspice,  per  seer 
Aniseed,  per  seer. 
Arrowroot,  per  ft. 

hot.  half  lb.  do, 
Balichongy  per  j 
Bamboo,    per   K 

(according       to 

thickness;.. 
Barley-Sugar,    per 


ar 


Barley,  pearl,   per 

seer , 

Bay-leaf,  per   seer 
Beetlenut,  Pendier 

per  seer 

Conntry,  do 
Beetle-leaf,  or 

Pawn 

cha-chee,       100 

leaves  for.... 
Bungalow  4o* 

New,   do.  do.  100 

leaves 

Blankets,    Witney, 

each 

for  Horses. 

do 

Bottles,    '  English, 

per  100 

Bottles,  Liverpool, 

per  100. 

Porter,  do.  per  100 

French,  per  100. 
Bran,   wheat,    per 

maund 

Bricks,  11  inches, 

per  1000 

9  inches  per  1000 


PRICES. 


Jak. 


B.  A.^P.]  B.  A.  P. 

450  0  0@6d0  0  0 


0 
12 
0 
3 
0 
2 
1 
1 


2 
0 
5 
0 
3 
12 
2 
0 


0  0  16 
12  0    3 

4  0    2 

3  6    0 

2  6    0 

4  0    0 


0  0 

0  0 

8  0 
4  0 

3  0 

4  6 


1  3    0 

0  6    0 

0  0    0 

0  0  16 

9  0    0 

0  0  11 

12  0  7 
8  0  6 
0  0    3 


6  0 
0  0 

0  0 

0  0 

10  0 

0  0 

0  0 
0  0 
8  0 


0  15  0    1     0  0 


12  0    4 
2  0    2 


13  0 

4  0 


Mat. 


Nov. 


B.  A.    P.   B.   A.  P. 

450  0  0@0    0  0 


12  0  0    14  0  0  12  5  0    14  0  0 


0 

10 
0 
3 
0 
2 
1 
1 


2  0 

4  0 
4  3 


2  12 

1    2 

.2    0  0 


10    0  0  16  0  0 

1  12  0    3  0  0 

2  4  0   <e  8  0 
0    3  6    0  4  0 

0    2  6    0  3  0 

0    4  0    0  4  6 


0    13    0    0  0 
0    0  6    0    0  0 

0    0  0    0    0  0 

3  0  0  16    0  0 
0    9  0    0  10  0 

10    0  0  11     0  0 

6  12  0    7    0  0 
5     8  0    6    0  0 

4  0  0    3    8  0 

0  15  0    1    0  0 

4  12  0    4  13  0 
12  0    2    4  0 


0 

13 
0 
4 
0 


2  12 

1  2 

2  0 


10    0  0 

1  12  0 

2  12  0 
0    3  6 

0    2  6 
0    20 


16  0  0 

3  0  0 

3  0  0 

0  4  0 

0  3  0 

0  4  6 


0  13 

0  0  6 

0  0  0 

3  0  0 
0  9  0 

10  0  0 

6  12  0 

5  8  0 

4  0  0 


0  6  0 

0  0  0 

0  0  0 

16  GO 

0  10  0 

11  0  0 

7  0  0 

6  0  0 

3  8  0 


0  15  0    1    0  0 


4  12  0 
12  0 


4  13  0 
2    4  0 


Digitized  by 


Google  ^ 


AND   COOKERY. 


479 


ARTICLES. 


PRICES. 


Jav. 


B.  A.  P.      B.  A.  P. 


Brick-Dust,  1st  tt 

100  rnairnd 

2d   do 

Brimstone,  per  seer 

Candles^  wax,   ]st 

sort,  per  seer 

2d  do 

Candles,  tallow,  1st 
sort,  per  maond! 
2d  do.... 
Capers,  per  bottle 
Cardamons,    Mala- 
bar, per  seer. 
Cashew  Nuts,pr.8r. 

Chalk,  per  seer 

Charoosd,  1st  sort, 
per    mannd 
2d  do.   do, 
Cheese,  pine,  pr.  9^ 
Dacca,  per  seer..... 
Bandei,  wg.  1  ft  ea. 
Cheese  Ciuces,  Ma 
caroons  and  Tart- 
lets, 1st  sort  per 

dozen.. 

2d   do.  do. 

Inferior,  8  doz.  for 

Cheratta,  per  seer 

Cheroots,    Havana 

per    100. 

Manilla,  do 

Chlnsurah,  per  box 

of  250. 

Calcutta,  per  100 

Chillies,dried  pr.  sr, 

fresh,   do... 

Chocolate,  per  ft  .. 

Chunam,       import 

wt.  per.  100  md 

export  do.. 

Cinnamon,  pr.  seer 

Cloves,  per  seer 

Cocoa,  per  ft 

Coir,      Laccadiva, 

oer  seer 

Coir,  Maldiva,pr.sr. 

Coffee,        Mocha, 

picked,  per  seer. 


11 

12 

0 

1 
1 

14 

11 

2 

2 

0 
0 

1 

0 
0 
0 
0 


0  0@14  0  0 
0  0  13  0  0 
4  0    0    4  6 


7  0 
5  0 


8  0 
6  0 


0  0  15  0  0 
0  0  12    0  0 

40280 

8  0  4  0  0 
0  6  0  10 
0  3    0    0  6 


0  0 
0  0 
0  0 
8  0 
3  6 


2  0 
0  0 
0  0 
9  0 

3  9 


10  0  0  12  0 

6  0  0  8  0 

0  0  0  0  0 

3  0  0  3  3 


8  0 
8  0 


1 

00 

1 

0  12  0 

1 

0 

2  0 

0 

0 

0  9 

0 

1 

0  0 

1 

43 

0  0  44 

37 

0  0  38 

0  14  0 

0 

0  13  0 

0 

2  12  0 

3 

4    0  0 
2  12  0 

8  0 

0  0 
2  6 

1  0 
1  0 

0  0 

0  0 

15  0 

14  0 

0  0 


0  0    0    0  0 
5  0    0    5  6 


0  10  6    0  10  6 


May. 


B.  A.  P.      B.  A.  P 

11  0  0@14  0  0 

12  0  0    13  0  0 
0    4  0    0    4  6 


70 

6  0 


8  0 
6  0 


14    0  0  15    0  0 

11    0  0  12    0  0 

2    4  0    2    8  0 


8  0 
0  6 
0  3 

0  0 

0  0 
0  0 
8  0 
3  6 


4  0  0 
0  10 
0    0  6 


1 
0 
0 
0 
0 


2  0 
0  0 
0  0 
9  0 

3  9 


0  10  0  0  12  0 

0    6  0  0    8  0 

10  0  0    0  0 

0    3  0  0    3  3 


4    0  0 
2  12  0 


10  0 
0  12  0 
0    2  3 

0  0  9 

1  0  0 


8  0 

0  0 
2  6 

1  0 
1  0 


43    0  0  44    0  0 

37    0  0  38    0  0 

0  14  0    0  15  0 

0  13  0    0  14  0 

2  12  0  '  3    0  0 

0    0  0    0    0  0 
0    5  0    0    5  6 

0  10  6    0  10  6 


Nov. 


B.  A.  P.     B.  A.  P. 

11  0  0@14  0  0 

12  0  0    13  0  0 
0    4  0    0    4  6 


7  0 
5  0 


8  0 
6  0 


14    0  0  15    0  0 

11    0  0  12    0  0 

2    4  0    2    8  0 


2  8  0  4 
0  0  6  0 
0    0  3    0 


0  0 
0  0 
0  0 
8  0 
3  6 


0  0 

1  0 
0  6 

2  0 
0  0 
Q  0 
9  0 

3  9 


0  10  0  0  12  0 

0    6  0  0    8  0 

10  0  0    0  0 

0    3  0  0    3  3 


8  0 
8  0 

0  0 
12  0 
2  3 
0  9 
0  0 


4    0  0 
2  12  0 


8  0 

0  0 
2  6 

1  0 
1  0 


43    0  0  44    0  Q 

37    0  0  38    0  0 

0  14  0    0  15  0 

0  13  0    0  14  0 

2  12  0    3    0  0 

0    0  0    0    0  0 
0    5  0    0    5  6 

0  10  6    0  10  6 


Digitized  by 


Google 


480 


INDIAN  DOMBSnC   ECONOMY 


ARTICLES. 


Bourbon  coffee,  per 


Comfits,     country, 

per  ft 

Coriander  seed,  per 

seer 

Cork,  wine,  per  grs. 

beer  do.  do. 
Cummin  sd.  pr.  sr. 
Currants,  per  seer. 
Custard,  p^r  dozen 

cups 

Dates,  dried,  per  sr, 

moist,  do 

Dhall,        moonge, 

clear'd   of  husk 


per  seer 

Doot  do.  do 

urruhr  do.  do. ... 

mussoor,  do.  do. 
Eau  de-Cologne, 

per  phial 

Eggs,    fowl,    fresh 

Ser  corge 
ucks,  do.  do, 
Pigs  Turkey,  pr.  fc 
Pire-wood  split  1st 

St.  3^  mds.  for.. 

2d  sort  4    do.. 

3d  sort  4}  do.. 

4th  sort  5    do.. 

Garlic,  per  seer 
Ghee,  cow,  1st  sort, 

1  seer  8  chs.  for 
2ddo.lsr«8ehs.for 
Buffalos,    1st    sort 

1  seer  8  chs.  for 
2ddo.lsr.12ch  for 
Ginger,  fresh  pr.  sr. 

dry,  Patna  do.... 
Grain,    Bice,   Pat- 
na per  maund.... 
Patchery,   1st  sort 

do.  2d  do, 
Moonghy,  1st  sort 

do.  ao.  2d  do. 
Ballum,  1st  st.  do, 
Bauree,  pr.  maund 
Wheat  do 


PRICES. 


JAlr. 


a.  A.  p.    B.  A.  p. 


7  0@0 
0  0    1 


12  0 

0  0 
2  0 
2  0 


00 
0  0 
0  0 

0  0 

1  3 


7  6 

4  0 

2  0 

5  0 
0  0 
5  6 
0  0 

0  0 
2  3 
4  0 


1 

0  0 
0  0 
0  0 


4  0  0 
2  0  0 
4  0    0 


&.  A.   P.     B.  A.   P. 

0    7  0@0    7  6 
10  0    14  0 


0    6  0    0    7  0 


1 
1 

1 
0 
0 

0 
0 

0 

0 
0 
0 

0 
4 

2 
1 
1 
2 

0 


5  0 
2  0 
70 

0  0 
00 

0  0 
00 

1  6 

0  0 
00 

0  0 

0  0 

1  6 
8  0 


May. 


&.  A.   p.      B.  A.  P. 

0    7  0@0    7  0 
10  0    140 


1  9 
0  0 
8  0 
5  0 
8  0 


0    2 
3    8 
2    0  0 
0    5 
2  12  0 


2  0  0  3  00 
0  2  0  0  2  3 
0    2  0    0    4  0 


0  16  0  1 

0  1  0  0  0 

0  10  0  0  0 

0  0  9  0  0  0 


000070060070 


4  0 
2  0 
40 

0  0 
00 

0  0 
00 

1  3 

00 
0  0 


5  0 
2  0 
70 

0  0 
0  0 
0  0 

0  0 

1  6 

00 
0  0 


100000 
10  0  0  0  0 
0  13  0  16 
0  2  6  0  3  0 


0  0 

3  IS 

1  8 
7 
2 

12 
0 
0 


0  0 
0  0 
40 
8  0 
3  0 
00 
0  0 
2  0 


Nov. 


0  19 
4  0  0 
18  0 
0  5  0 
8  12  0 


0  0 
2  0 
2  0 


0  4  0 
0  2  0 
0  4  0 


0  0 
0  0 
00 

0  0 

1  3 

00 
00 


2  0 
8  0 
0  0 
5  6 
0  0 


3  0  0 
0  2  3 

0  40 


0  16  0  19 

0  10  0  0  0 

0  10  0  0  0 

0  0  9  0  0  0 


0  5  0 
0  2  0 
0  7  0 


0  0 

0  0 

0  0 

0  0 

1  6 

0  0 

0  0 


10  0  0  0  0 

10  0  0  0  0 

0  13  0  16 

0  2  6  0  3  0 


0  0 
0  0 
4  0 
8  0 
3  0 
0  0 
00 
20 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY. 


481 


ARTICLES. 


Gancajallah>  pr  zod 

Jamalee,  do 

Gram,  Patna,     1st 

sort,  per  maund 

do.  2d  do.  do.... 

do.  new,  Ist  sort 
Peas,  Dutch,  white 

per  maund 

Moong  Cully,  do. 
.Mash,  CuJly,  do. 
Tewora»  or  £aha- 

saree  Mutter,. 
Cubree,    or    Pyra 

Mutter,  do.  do. 
Dhall,  urruhr  good 

do. 

Paddy,  per  maund 
Gunpowder,  pr.  lb. 
Hair  powder, 

8myth*8per  lb.. 
Hams,    Yorkshire, 

per  lb 

Hay    per    maund 

per  1000    large 

bundles 

Herrings,  pickled, 

per  nrkiu 

Honey,  country,  5 

to  6  seers,  for.. 
Hungary     Water, 

per  bottle 

Isinglass,    Europe, 

per  lb 

Country,  do 

Jams  and/  Jellies, 

Europe,  p  3  lb.  jar 

Jellies,       country, 

currunda,  guava, 

mangoe,  &c.  per 


Jagre^  of  date,  1st 

sort,  per  seer 

for  Tobaco,  per 
maund 

Ktdbh,  pabree,  1st 
sort,  per  seer 

Lavender  Water, 
Smyth's  per  pint 
bottle 


PRICES. 


Jak. 


B.  A.  p.  B.  A.  P. 

1  14  0@1  15  0 

1 10  0  1  n  0 

12  0  12  0 

1    0  0  1    1 

0  0  0  0    0  0 

1  12  0  1  13  0 

2  8  0  2    9  0 

1  6  0  1  12  0 

0  16  0  1     0  0 

0  14  0  0  14  6 

0  15  0  2    0  0 

0  14  0  0  14  6 

18  0  1  10  0 

0  14  0  1    0  0 

10  0  14  0 

0  13  0  0  14  0 

6  12  0  7    0  0 

8    0  0  9    0  0 

10  0  0    0  0 

0    4  0  0    8  0 

5  8  0  6    0  0 

2  8  0  3    0  0 

6  8  0  7    8  0 


1    8  0  1  10  0 

0  10  0    13 

1  10  0  2    0  0 
0    6  0  0    0  0 

4    0  0  4    4  0 


May. 


B.   A.  p.  B.  A.  P. 
1  14  0@1  15  0 

1  10  0  1  11  0 

13  6  14  0 

116  12  0 

0  0  0  0    0  0 

1  12  0  1  13  0 

2  8  0  2    9  0 
1    6  0  1  12  0 

0  15  0  1    0  0 

0  14  0  0  14  6 

115  0  2    0  0 

0  14  0  0  14  6 

1  8  0  1  10  0 

0  14  0  1    0  0 

10  0  14  0 

0  13  0  0  14  0 

6  12  0  7    0  0 

8    0  0  9    0  0 

10  0  0    0  0 

0    4  0  0    8  0 

5  8  0  6    0  0 

2  8  0  3    0  0 

6  8  0  7    8  Q 


1    8  0  1  10  0 

0  10  0    13 

1  10  0  2    0  0 
0    6  0  0    0  0 


4    0  0    4    4  0 
n2 


Nov. 


— ^ 


B.  A.  p.  B.   A.  P. 

1  14  0@1  15  0 

1  10  0  1  11  0 

1     2  6  12  6 

10  0  110 

0  0  0  0    0  0 

1  12  0  1  13  0 

2  8  0  2  9  0 
1    6  0  1  12  0 

0  15  0  1    0  0 

0  14  0  0  14  6 

1  15  0  2    0  0 

0  14  0  0  14  6 

1  8  0  1  10  0 

0  14  0  1    0  0 

10  0  14  0 

0  13  0  0  14  0 

7  8  0  8    0  0 

8  00900 
10  0  0  0  0 
0    4  0  0    8  0 

6     8  0  6    0  0 

2  8  0  3    0  0 

6    8  0  7    8  0 


1    8  0  1  10  0 

0  10  0    13 

1  10  0  2    0  0 
0    6  0  0    0  0 

4    0  0  4    4  0 


Digitized  by 


Google 


482 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC  £CONOMT 


AETICLES. 


per 


Ijime-Juice, 

gallon 

per  bottle. 
Mace,  good  per  sr. 
Marmalade,  coun- 
try of  sorts,  p.  ft 
Milk  of  Rose,p.  bot 
Milk-curd,  per  seer 
Morocco  skins,  ea. 
Mustard,  pr  lb.  bot. 
per  naif  do.... 
Mustard  seed,  p.  sr 
Mjdah,   1st     sort, 

per  maund.. 

per  seer.. 
Nutmegs,       good, 

per  seer 

Oats,  1st,  per  md. 

2d  do 

Oatmeal,   per  seer 
Oil,  salad,  per  bot. 

castor,  Bhaulgul- 

j>ore,do 

cold- drawn,  p.  pint 
sesamun,    (teel)    3 

seers  0  chs  for. 
mustard,  5  srs  0  chs 
Linseed,  pr.  gallon. 
Cocoanut,  1st  sort, 

per  maund 
Onions,         Patna, 

white,  per  seer, 
red,  do 

small,  per    seer. 
Ottah,  1st  sort,  per 

maund.. 


per  seer 

paint,   best    white 
mixed,  per  lb 

black,   do.  do. 

green,   do.  do. 

yellow,  do.  do. 

red,    do.    do. 
Pepper,     Malabar, 


per  seer... 
White. 


Long,  do.... 
Pistachio        Nuts 


PRICES. 


Jak. 


B.  A.  P.      R.  A,  P. 


K.    A.  P.      B.    A.  P. 


0  0@2  2  0 
6  0  0  7  0 
8  0    6    0  0 


0  0 
4  0 
4  0 

0  0 
4  0 

13  6 

1  3 

0  0 

1  6 

0  0 
10  6 
10  0 
10  0 

0  0 

8  0 
8  0 


8  0 
8  0 
6  0 

0  0 
6  0 

14  0 

1  6 

0  0 

1  9 


4  4  0 
1  11  0 
1  11  0 
1  11  0 
18  0 

0  10  0 
3    0  0 


0  0  0 
0  0  0 
2  0    2 


0  0 
0  0 
4  0 


13    2  0  13    4  0 


2  0 
1  3 

0  6 

4  0 

1  0 

2  0 

2  0 

3  0 

1  6 

2  0 

4  9 
9  6 

7  0 


0  2  6 
0  19 
0    0  0 


8  0 

1  3 

2  3 
2  3 
4  0 
2  0 
2  3 


0  5  0 
0  10  0 
0    7  6 


Mat. 


Nov. 


2  0  0@2 
0  6  0  0 
5    8  0    6 


0  0 
4  0 
40 

0  0 
4  0 

13  6 

1  3 


3    0  0    4 
0    16    0 


4  0  0 
1  10  6 
1  10  0 
1  10  0 
10  0 


0    8  0    0 
2     8  0    3 


0  0  0 
0  0  0 
2  0    2 


2  0 

7  0 

0  0 

8  0 

8  o: 

6  0. 

0  o; 

6  0 
14  0 

1  6 

0  0 

1  9 

4  0 
11  0 
11  0 
11  0 

8  0 

10  0 
0  0 

0  0 
0  0 
4  0 


B.    A.  P.      B.  A.  P. 

2    0  0@2  2  0 

0    6  0     0  7  0 

5    8  0     6  0  0 


11    0  0  11    4  0 


0  2  0  0 

0  1-30 

0  0  6  0 

3  4  0  3 

0  10  0 

0  2  0  0 

0  2  0  0 

0  3  0  0 

0  16  0 

0  2  0  0 

0  4  9  0 

0  9  6  0 

0  7  0  0 


2  6 
1  9 

0  0 

8  0 

1  3 

2  3 
2  3 

4  0 
2  0 
2  3 

5  0 
10  0 

7  6 


0  0 
4  0 
4  0 

0  0 
4  0 

13  6 

1  3 

0  0 

1  6 


0  0 

1  9 


4  0  0 
1  10  6 
1  10  0 
1  10  0 
10  0 


8  0 
8  0 


4  4  0 
1  11  0 
1  11  a 
1  11  0 
1     S  0 

0  10  0 
3     0  0 


10  0    0  0  0 

1  0  0    0  0  0 

2  2  0    2  4  0 

13    2  0  13  4  0 


2  0 
1  3 
0  6 


2  6 
1  9 
0  0 


3    4  0    3     8  0 
0    10    0    18 


2  0 

2  0 

3  0 

1  6 

2  0 

4  9 
9  6 
7  0 


2  3 
2  3 
4  0 
2  0 
2  3 


0  6  0 
0  10  0 
0    7  6 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKEBT. 


483 


ARTICLES. 


picked  from  nuts 

per  seer 

Pickles,  Europe,  p 

square 

country,   do... 
Pitch,  per  seer.... 
Plums,        Erench, 

per  fi 

Plum  Cake,  pr  ft. 
Pomatum,  Smyth's 

per  pint 

Prunes,  Persian  1st 

sort,  per   seer... 

2d  do.  do.. 

Pftines,       French, 

per  square,  of  3 
Raiains,   1st    sort, 

per  seer 

2d  do: 

muscatel,    do 

bloom,  do 

Battans,  best,  per 

100 

Rose-Water,      1st 

sort,  per  seer 
Sago,     pearl,     1st 

sort,  per  seer... 

2d  do.  do 

Salmon,       pickled, 

per  keg 

m  cans^  per  can. 
Salt,         Smelling, 

Smith's,  per 

stopped  bottle... 
Salt  white,  pr  seer 

brown,  do 

Saltpetre,  per  seer 
Sarcunes,  in  butter, 

per  canister... 
Sauces,     of    sorts, 

per  bottle 

SennarLeaf,  per  sr, 
Shoe-Blackiug, 

Day    and    Mar- 
tins, per  bottle. 
Snuff,       Masulipa- 

tam,  per  bottle, 
Maccoba,  do. 


PRICES. 


Jak. 


B.  A.  P.      B.  A.  F. 


1  0  0@1     4  0 

2  4  0  2  8  0 
10  0  14  0 
0    19  0    2  0 

10  0  14  0 

12  0  14  0 

0  12  0  0  14  0 

0    0  0  0    0  0 

0    0  0  0     0  0 

3  4  0  3    8  0 

0    6  0  0    7  0 

0    4  0  0    4  3 

0  0  0  0    0  0 

1  12  0  2    0  0 

15  0  16  0 

0  12  0  0  13  0 

0    3  9  0    4  0 

0    2  3  0    2  6 

2  0  0  2  8  0 
0    0  0  0    0  0 


8  0 
2  6 
2  0 
2  6 


1  12  0 
0  2  9 
0  0  0 
0    3  0 


4    0  0    4    4  0 

18  0    2    8  0 
0    8  0    0  10  0 


0    8  0    0    9  0 

2    4  0    2    8  0 
6    0  0    6    4  0 


May. 


B.  A.  P.      E.  A.  P. 


1  0  0@1      4  0 

2  4  0  2  3  0 
10  0  14  0 
0     19  0    2  0 

10  0  14  0 

12  0  14  0 

0  12  0  0  14  0 

0    0  0  0    0  0 

0    0  0  0    0  0 

3  4  0  3    8  0 

0    6  0  0    7  0 

0    4  0  0    4  3 

0  0  0  0    0  0 

1  12  0  2    0  0 

15  0  16  0 

0  12  0  0  13  0 

0    3  6  0    4  0 

0    2  3  0    2  6 

2  0  0  2  8  0 
0    0  0  0.0  0 


8  0 
2  6 
2  0 
2  6 


1  12  0 
0  2  9 
0  0  0 
0    3  0 


4    0  0    4    4  0 


8  0 
8  0 


2    8  0 
0  10  0 


0    8  0    0    9  0 

2    4  0    2    8  0 
6    0  0    6    4  0 


Nov. 


B.  A.  p.     B.  A.  P. 


1  0  0@1      4  0 

2  4  0  2  8  0 
10  0  14  0 
0    19  0    2  0 

10  0  14  0 

12  0  14  0 

0  12  0  0  14  0 

0    0  0  0    0  0 

0    0  0  0    0  0 

3  4  0  3    8  0 

0    6  0  0    7  0 

0    4  0  0    4  3 

0  0  0  0    0  0 

1  12  0  2    0  0 

1  5  0  1    G  0 

0  12  0  0  13  0 

0    3  6  0    4  0 

0    2  3  0    2  6 

2  0  0  2  8  0 
0    0  0  0    0  0 


8  0 
2  6 
2  0 
2  6 


12  0 

2  9 
0  0 

3  0 


4    0  0    4    4  0 


8  0 
8  0 


2    8  0 
01  0  0 


0    8  0    0    9  0 

2    4  0    2    8  0 
6    0  0    6    4  0 


Digitized  by 


Google 


484 


INDIAN    DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 


ARTICLES. 


Soap,  Europe, 

scented,  pr  doz. 

Dacca,  per  sr. 

Soda-Water,  in 
pints,  per  dozen 
t  pints,      do... 

Soojee,  1st  sort,  pr 
maond 


&.  A«  p.    B.  A.  P. 


per  seer. 
Straw,  large  bnnd 

per  kahim 

small,  do.  do. 
Sug;ar  fine,  3  seers 

8  chs.  for. 

2d  sort,  4  seers. 

0  chs.   for, 
Sugar-Candy,  Chi- 
na, 1st  St.  per  sr 
2d  sort,  do.. 
Sugar-Candy,    Cy, 

ist  8ort,2  seers,  1 

chs.    for, 

2d  do.  2  seers,  6 

chs.   for 

Syrups,    lime,    ta< 

marinds,  &c.  per 

bottle... 
Tamarinds,  per  sr 
Tar,  Stockholm,  pr 

seer 


American,  do. 

Tea,  Hyson,  per  sr 

Souching,  do. 

ij^ckoe,  do, 

gunpowder,    do. 

nounchong,     do. 

Tiles,  long,  thick, 

per  100, 

thin,    do. 

Square,  thick,  do. 

thin,  do. 

Tobacco  bhilsa,  for 

the  hookah,   1st 

sort,  per  maund 

do.  do*  2d  do. 

bo.  do.  3d  do. 

inferior,     do.    do, 

strone,       common 


PRICES. 


Jan. 


1  8  0@2 
0    4  0  0 

2  8  0  2 
0    0  0  0 

4    0  0  5 

0    19  0 

4  12  0  5 

3  0  0  3 

10  0  0 

10  0  0 


0    0  0 
0    0  0 


8  0 
4  6 

10  0 
0  0 

0  0 
2  0 

00 
8  0 

0  0 

0  0 

0  0 
0  0 


3    2  0  3 

0  11  0  0 

3    4  0  3 

10  0  1 


25 

14 

10 

5 


R.  A.   P.  S.  A.   P. 

1  8  0@2  8  0 
0    4  0  0  4  6 

2  8  0  2  10  0 
0    0  0  0  0  0 

4    0  0  5  0  0 

0    19  0  2  0 

4  12  0  5  0  0 

3  0  0  3  8  0 

10  0  0  0  0 

10  0  0  0  0 

0    0  0  0  0  0 

0    0  0  0  0  0 


10  0    0 
10  0    0 


10  0    1 
0    10    0 


0  0 

0  0 

8  0 

1  3 


4  0 

14  0 

4  0 

2  0 


0  0  30 
0  0  20 
0  0  12 
0  0    6 


0 

0 

0  0 
0  0 


Mat. 


a.  A.  p.    &.  A.  p. 


10  0    0    0  0 
10  0    0    0  0 


0  0 

1  0 


8  0 
1  3 


3    2  0  3    4 

0  11  0  0  14  0 

3     4  0  3     4  0 

10  0  12  0 


25  0  0  30  0  0 

14  0  0  20  0  0 

10  0  0  12  0  0 

5  0  0    6  0  0 


640680640680640680 


Nov. 


8  0@3  8  0 

4  0    0  4  6 

8  0    2  10  0 

0  0    0  0  0 

0  0    5  0  0 

19    0  2  0 

12  0  5  0  0 

0  0    3  8  0 

0  0    0  0  0 

0  0    0  0  0 

0  0    0  0  0 

0  0   0  0  0 


0  0    0    0  0 
0  0    0    0  0 


0  0 

1  0 


8  0 

1  3 

5  6 
00 

8  0 

4  0 

0  0 

0  0 

0  0 


2  0  3     4  0 

11  0  0  14  0 

4  0  3    40 

0  0  13  0 


25 

14 

10 

5 


30 
20 

12 
6 


0  0 
0  0 
0  0 
0  0 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AMD    COOKSET. 


485 


ARTICLES. 

PRICES. 

A- 

'           Jan. 

May. 

Nov.          ' 

Tobacco  leaf,  bbil. 

sa,  permaund.  .. 
Turmeric,  1st  sort, 

per  seer 

Turpentine,  per.  sr 
Verdigris,  per  seer 
Vinegar,     Wyatt's 

per   bottle 

Country,  pr.  gal 
White  Lead,  pr.  sr 
Walnuts,  per  seer 

».  A.  P.      E.  A.  P. 

25    0  0@28  0  0 

0  16    0    2  0 

1  9  0    1  10  0 
10  0    12  0 

0  12  0    0  13  0 
12  0    0    3  0 
0    7  0    0    7  6 
0    0  0    0    0  0 

E.  A.  P.      E.  A.  P. 

25     0  0@28  0  0 

0    16    0    2  0 
12  0    13  0 
10  0     12  0 

0  13  0    0  13  0 
0    3  0    0    3  0 
0    7  0    0    7  9 
0    0  0    0    0  0 

E.  A.  P.     E.  A.  P. 

25    0  0@28  0  0 

0  16    0    2  0 

1  9  0    1  10  0 
10  0     12  0 

0  12  0    0  13  0 
12  0    0    3  0 
0    7  0    0    7  6 
0    0  0    0    0  0 

Digitized  by 


Google 


486 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOUY 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  THE  MARKET. 


GHOSTH— MEAT. 


Jan. 

May, 

Nov. 

Beef ( 

Patna,  Sheep  Mut- 
ton 

large   supply 
every    morning 

scarce 

large   supply 
every    morning 

scarce    

large  supply 
every  morning. 

scarce. 

Country,        Sheep 
Mutton.  ... 

nlentiful. 

plentiful 

do 

do 

do 

do 

do 

plentiful, 
do. 

do.  Lamb 

do 

Kid       

do  

do. 

Veal 

do...- 

do- 

Pork  

do 

do. 

Pigs,  roasting 

do 

do. 

MUTCHLEE— FISH. 


Tubsa  Mutchee, 
(Mangoe  Fish) 

Hilsa  Mutcheef, 
(Sable  Fish) 

Beckhtee,  (Cock- 
up) 

Mooniee,  (Mul- 
let,) 

Banspattah 

Khankeelah. 

Rowe 

Cutla 

Mirgael 

BhoM 

Tangra 


Quoye,  (Carp) 

Coochia,    (Eels).  .. 


Mangoor., 

Sihgee.. 

Beleah.. 


gone  out 'a  few  procurable. 

plentifoi' gone  out. 

do scarce.. 


do..  .. 

do.... 

do... 

do.... 

do.... 

do... 
scarce.... 
plentiful.. 

do 

do 

do 

do..... 

do.... 


procurable.. 

do 

scarce 

do 

do 

do. 

scarce 

do 

procurable.. 

do 

do 

do 

do 


gone  out. 
plentiful, 
do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 
scarce, 
plentiful. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKBRT. 


487 


Jan. 

May. 

Nov. 

Pairsah 

olentiful 

procurable 

do 

plentiful, 
do. 

Cheng  oab 

^do :.......... 

Phankal 

do 

do.             

do. 

Prawns,         Barah 

Chingree 

Bagda,  Chingree... 
Chotah,  Chingree.. 
Khanera,  (Crab)... 

do 

a  few  procurable, 
do     .... 

do. 

do 

plentiful 

scarce 

do. 

scarce 

scarce. 

And  many    others 
of  inferior  note. 

MOORGEE^-FOWLS. 


Chittagong    Fowlsjscarce 

Country,       do 'plentiful,. 


Half-grown,.... 

Geese, 

Half -grown,  ..  , 

Ducks,... 

Young  Pigeons 


do. 

do. 

do.. 

do.. 

do.. 


scarce 

plentiful 

do . 

scarce, 
plentiful, 
do. 

do  . 

do. 

do 

do 

do. 
do. 

do 

do. 

TURKAREE-VEGETABLES. 


(Green 


Mutter, 
Peas) 

Fullcobee,  (Cauli- 
flower)  

Asparagus 

Cooee,  (Cabbages) 
White 

Old  Cobee,  (Nole 
Cole) 

Artichoke 

Prench  Beans 

Potatoes 

Dhorose,  (Ram- 
shorn) 

Securcurid,  AUoo- 
Sweet  Pota- 
toes)  

Sal^m,  (Tur 
nips) 

Gajur,  (Carrots) .., 

Kuddo,  (Pump- 
kins) 

Kttddema,  (Sweet 
Pumpkins) 

By  gun,    (Brinjals). 

Belaty-Bygun 


plentiful. 


do... 
scarce. 


gone  out 

plentiful 

do 

do 


do.. 


da. 


do., 
do.. 

do- 
do- 
do., 
do.. 


gone  out.. 


do 

few  at   market... 

procurable. 


gone  out. 

do 

do. 

plentiful.. 


do.. 


scarce.. 


do., 
do- 


plentiful.. 


do., 
do., 
do.. 


going  out. 

do. 
plentiful. 


going  out. 

do. 
plentiful. 

do. 

do. 


do. 

do. 
do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

Iscarce. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


4S8 


INDIAN    DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 


Jan. 


May. 


Nov. 


Kheerah, 

cumber). 
Oorcbah.... 
Chumlie... . 

Palome 

Loll 


Cu. 


scarce... . 

do 

do 

plentiful.. 

do 


plentiful.. 

scarce 

plentiful.. 

do 

lin  season.. 


scarce. 

do. 

do. 
plentiful. 

do. 


PHUIL-FRUIT. 


Gumla  Limboo 

(Oranges) 

Pucka-Aum,  (Ripe 

Maugoe) 

Kutcba  Aum, 

(Green       Man 

goe) 

Peachphol, 

(Peaches) 

Nicboo-phol, 

TLecbees) 

(joiaub  Jam, 

(Rose  Apple)... 
*  Jaumrool,        (Star 

Apples) 

Pootee,         (Musk 

Melon) 

Atta,       (Custard 

Apples) ..... 

Annaross,     (Pine- 
Apple) 

Geeaboo,        (Gua- 

Tas) 

Loquarts 

Toot,         (Mulber 

ries) 

Taparee,     (Gfoose- 

berries) 

Turmoge,     (Water 

Melonj......... 

Patee         Limboo, 

(Lemons) 


Desse  Buddum, 
Country  Al- 
monds)  

Ook,  (Sugar 
Cane) 

Lnlee,  Tama- 

rinds^, ripe....  .. 


plentiful., 
gone  out.. 


do 

do 

do 

do 

do 

plentiful., 
scarce.... 

do 


do 

gone  out.. 


do., 
do., 
do. 


plentiful., 
do 


do 

do 

in  abundance.. 


gone  out 

few  at  market.. 


plentiful 

few  procurable.... 

plentifuL 

do 

few  procurable. 

do 

gone  out. 

few  procurable. 


do.... 
gone  out.. 


do... 

do... 

plentiful.. 

gone  out., 
plentiful.. 


do 

do 

in  abundance., 


in  season.  , 
gone  out. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

plentiful. 

scarce. 

do. 

do. 
gone  out. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

plentiful, 
do. 

do. 
do. 
in  abundance. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKEKT,  489 


DIGHi  FAEM— DINAPOOE. 


LIVE  STOCK. 

SS.  A.  P. 

Fine  large  fed  Bullocks, per  pair...  100  to  150  0  0 

Europe  and  China  breeding  Sows  and  Pigs 25  0  0 

Small  porkers 12  0  0 

Less  sise  do 10  0  0 

Rabbits, per  pair...     3  0  0 

Gram  fed  Sheep, each..    8  0  0 

Grass    do do.      3  0  0 

Miloh  Goats 8  0  0 

Gynahs,  fat,  and  fit  for  immediate  use, per  pair...  60  0  0 

Fat  cock  Turkeys, each...     7  0  0 

Fat  hen 4  0  0 

Geese,fat per  pair...     3  0  0 

Ducks,  fat, doz...  12  0  0 

Fowls,  do pair...     3  0  0 

Young  Pigeons, doz...    3  0  0 

Guinea  Fowls, pair...     4  0  0 

Bantam  do ,. „        6  0  0 

Muscovy  Ducks, t»        4  0  0 

Middling  size  Roasting  Fowls, doz...     6  0  0 

Less  size  Fowls, „       4  0  0 

Chickens, ,        2  0  0 

SALTED  AND  CURED  PROVISIONS. 

Kegs  containing  2  Rounds  of  Beef  in  prepared  Pickle  per  keg.  16  .0  0 

do.  Briskets do „  ...  16  0  0 

do.  small  prime  do.  8  pieces do „  ...  16  0  0 

do.  Pork        do.      8  to  10 do ,  ...  16  0  0 

do.  Pig's  cheeks,  feet  and  tongues do „  ...  16  0  0 

do.  12  large  Bullock  Tongues  in do „  ...  16  0  0 

do.  12  middling  size  do.  dried „  ...  10  0  0 

Small  kegs  containing  12  highly  seasoned  Bologna 

Sausages  in  rendered  suet „  ...  16  0  0 

Small  Mottled  Sausages  in  rendered  suet „  ...  12  0  0 

do.    German    do.               do..>. „  ...  12  0  0 

02 


Digitized  by 


Google 


490  INDIAN  DOMESTIC   ICONOMT 

xa.  1.  p 

Hams per  ft   ..  0  19   0 

MuttonHams „  ...  0   8  0 

Beef       do „  ...  0   6   0 

Bacon „  ...  0   6  0 

BeefBacon „    ..060 

Hogs*  cheeks,  smoked „  ...  0   6  0 

Mutton  Bacon „  ...  0   6  0 

Hung  Beef „  ...  0   C   0 

CollaredBeef „  ...  OHO 

do.       Veal ,  ...  0  19  .0 

do.       Pig „  ...  0  19   0 

Buttocks  of  Beef  salted eadi  ...  6    0  0 

Brisket    of   do.    do „  ...  6    0  0 

Ribs        of  do.    do „  ...  5    8   0 

Humps,  large,  smoked per  lb...  10   0 

do.    Pickled « „  ...  0  19   0 

Bullocks' Tongues,  large each...  10   0 

do.                     small perdos. ...  6    0   0 

Pigs*        do „  ...  «    0   0 

Sheeps*    do .,  ...  «    0    0 

Hind  and  fore  quarters  of  pickled  pork each...  3    0   0 

Tripe per  keg...  6    0    0 

Salted  Pastry  Suet permd.  ...  SO    0    0 

Hogs' Lard    do „  ...  16    0    0 

do.       do.  in  Bladders  each,  3  and....'. „  ...  4    0   0 

Rendered  Marrow per  ft...  0    8    0 

Bologna  Sausages each  ...  10    0 

German         do per  pair...  10    0 

Mutton  camp  do dos. ...  8    0    0 

Potted  Beef.^ pcrft...  18    0 

do.    Veal „  ...  18    0 

do.    Hares „  ...  3    0   0 

do.    Chickens „  ...  18    0 

do.    Partridges „  ...  3    0   0 

do.    Quub,  &e „  ...  3    0   0 

Smoked  Goose, each...  S    0   0 

do.     Ducks 1    4   0 

Beef  Portable  soup per  ft  ...  2    0   0 

Veal           do „     ...  3    0    0 

Chicken      do „     ...  2    8    0 

Vegetable  do , „     ...  2    8    0 

PorkBiown „     ...  0  12    0 


Digitized  by 


Google 


B8.  A. 

F. 

0  12 

0 

0  12 

0 

0  13 

0 

1    0 

0 

3    0 

0 

2    0 

0 

3    0 

0 

B    0 

0 

S    0 

0 

12    0 

0 

4    0 

0 

4    0 

0 

12    0 

0 

1    0 

0 

1    0 

0 

0  10 

0 

AND  COOKXAY.  491 


Bullocks*  Tongaes,  middling  size each... 

Beef  Brawn per  ft  ... 

Mutton  do 9,    ... 

Small  Soused  Pig „     ... 

Smoked  Chine  of  Pork .each  ... 

do.    Roe  Pish each  1  0  6  and  ... 

Jlinoed  meat per  fc  ... 

Tamarind  Pish  in  small  kegs  containing  100  slices per  keg  ... 

Pine  Neat's  Poot  Oil per  quart ... 

Kegs  oontg.  pigs'  cheeks,  feet^tongues^ears  and  hocks ...  per  keg  . . . 
Tamarind  Pish  in  jars  containing  60  slices each  ... 

do.     Roes  in  do.  24  large „    ... 

Kegs  containing  Tamarind  Pish  Roes „    ... 

Clarified  Hogs'  Lard  in  3  lb.  jars , „   ... 

Tasteless  Caster  Oil  in  quart  bottles „    ... 

do.  do.       inPints    do ^....  »>   ... 


PICKLES,  PRESERVES,  ETC. 

Pickled  Cauliflower  in  Bottles per  ft 

do.  White  Cabbage „ 

do.  Red         do „ 

do.  Piccallili „ 

do.  Beet  Root „ 

do.  Bamboo „ 

do.  Lidian  Corn. „ 

do.  Purple  Cabbage. „ 

do.  Sliced  Cucumbers „ 

do.  Stufed  do „ 

do.  Girkins „ 

do.  Onions „ 

do.  French  Beans „ 

do.  Ginger , „ 

do.  Mangoes per  jar 

do.  Mangoes per  square  bottle 

do.  Country  Plums „ 

do.  Peaches ,, 

do.  Radish  Pods „ 

do.  Stuffed  Chillies,  Red  and  Green.. „ 

do.  Limes,  1  dozen  in  each.: per  jar 

do.  Sour  Crout '.  ..  ..per  keg  or  jar 

do.    Chorindah „ 


8 

0 

8 

0 

8 

0 

8 

0 

S 

0 

8 

0 

8 

0 

8 

0 

8 

0 

8 

0 

8 

0 

8 

0 

8 

0 

8 

0 

8 

0 

0 

0 

8 

0 

8 

0 

8 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

8 

0 

Digitized  by 


Google 


492 


INDIAN  OOHBSTIC  XCONOKT 


■per bottle...  8  and...    3    0   0 


:i 


Essence  of  Ghormdah  of  a  snperior  quality per  phial.. 

do.  do per  pint., 

Chili  Vinegar .....per  quarter  bottle.. 

Pine  Clarified  Lime  juice $,    .. 

Love-apple  Chutney, I, 

Mangoe  do 

Mint  do 

Apple  and  Lime  do 

Sorrel  do 

Preserved  Oranges 

do.    Limes 

do.     Peaches 

do.    Melons 

do.    Ginger  of  a  snperior  quality. 

do.    Citron , 

do.    Chorindah Vper  lb., 

do.    Pears 

do.    Apples 

do.    Chow-Chow 

do.    Red  Tamarind 

do.    Yellow  do 

do.    Green   do. 

do.    Whole  Strawberries  from  the  Farm  Gardens. 

do.    Alloobookarrah. per  & 

do.    Loquats „ 

do.    Pine  Apple „ 

do.    Nectarine », 

Guava  Jelly », 

Peach      do m 

Mangoe  do „ 

Sorrell     do „ 

Alloobookarrah  do „ 

do.         Marmalade .' t, 

Mangoe  do „ 

Orange  do .' „ 

Sweet  Rusks,  Bath  Cakes,  &c „ 

Spiced  Ginger  Bread  Nuts „ 

Rich  Plum-Cakes „ 

do.    Seed    do „ 

Dried  Artichoke  Bottoms per  100 

Marrow-Fat  Peae ; per  seer 

FinePatna  Potatoes  for  seed per  md. 

do.  do.       forTable , „ 


BS. 

A. 

P. 

2 

0 

0 

6 

0 

0 

1 

8 

0 

S 

0 

0 

1    0    0 


0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 


0  12 
4  3 
3    0 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 
/ 


AND   COOKEBY. 


493 


VEGETABLE  AND  FLOWER  GARDEN  SEED. 


At  10  Rs.  and  5  Rs.  per  Box, 

containing  the  undermentioned, 

1   Mixed  Cabbage 

35  Indian  Sorrcll 

2  Cauliflower 

36  B«d  Beet 

3  Knole  Cole 

37  White  do. 

4  Co88  Lettace 

38    do.  Carrots 

5  Bed  do. 

39  Red    do. 

6  Cabbage  Lettuce 

40  Orange  do. 

7  Curled  Endive 

41  Long  White  Radish 

8  10  lb.  Marrow  Fat  Peas 

42    do.    Red      do. 

9  Early  Dwarf      do. 

43  Cape  Red  Turnip 

10  Imperial  Blue    do. 

44    do.    White    do. 

11  Dwarf  Prussia    do. 

45  Botan    do. 

12  Green  Marrow    do. 

46  White  Bombay  Onion 

13  White  Prussian  do. 

47  Red  Patna 

14  Green  Symitaire  do. 

48  Artichoke 

15  Windsor  Bean 

49  Asparagus 

16  Early  Pod           do. 

50  Europe  Cress 

17  White  French     do. 

51    do.      Parsley 

18  Dwarf                do. 

62  Green  Nepaul  Spinach 

19  Scarlet                do. 

53  Europe  Spinach 

20  Kidney               do. 

54  Broad  Iieaf    do. 

81  Bkck  French     do. 

55  Red  China      do. 

22  Hill                   do. 

66  Italian  Celery 

23  Country  Dwarf  do. 

57  Blue  Larkspur  Flower 

24  Butter              do. 

68  Sweet  Sultan 

25  China  Broad      do. 

59  Yellow  Choys  Anthemum 

26  Alkoose            do. 

60  Pot  Marygold 

27  Cross                do. 

61  China  Satin 

28  Cape  Dwarf  Cucumbers 

62      do.    Pink 

29  Long  Hill  Cucumbers 

63  Nepaul  Marygold 

30    do.        do.  Pumkins 

64  Wairflower 

31  Occur 

65  Lupines 

32  Large  Cape  Capsicums 

66  Mignionette 

33  Nepaul  Upright  Chillies 

67  Double  Red  Poppy 

3i  Long  Chillies 

68     do.      Balsam 

Digitized  by 


Google      — 


494f  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

69  Double  Variegated  75  Ten  Week  Stock 

70  Nepaol  Bnilcss  76  Yellow  Cocksoomb 

71  Holly  Hock  77  Nasturtium 

72  Snap  Dragon  78  Sun  Flower 

73  Camomile  79  White  Larkspur 

74  Red  Cockscomb  80  Starry  Marygold. 


DINAPOOR  BAZAR  PRICES. 

Beefy 9  Pies  to    1    aona  per  seer. 

Mutton, 1}  to    3    annas    do. 

Kid, 2  to    2^  annas  per  quarter. 

Pork,  common,  for  natiyes»  .1  to    1|  annas  per  seer. 

Cbickcn, 1|  to    3    annas  each. 

Geese, 1  Eupee  each. 

Duck, 8  annas  each. 

Large  Roasting  Fowl*     .    .        8  to    10  annas  each. 

Middling, 4  to    6    annas  each. 

Cow  and  Buffalo  Milk,    .     .     35  seers  per  Rupee. 

Butter,     ...'.....    1)  to  If  seers  per  Rupee. 

Mustard  Oil, 3  annas  per  seer. 

Linseed  Oil 3|  annas  per  seer. 

Burning  Castor  Oil,    ...        5  to    5}^  seers  per  Rupee. 

Firewood, 4  to    5    Maunds  per  Rupee. 

Fine  soft  Sugar, 3|  to    4|  seers  per  Rupee. 

Brown  Sugar, 7  to    8    seers  per  Rupee. 

Goor  or  Jaggery,     ....       1  Rupee  13  annas  to  3  Rnps.  per  maund. 

Ghee,       3}  to    3    seers  per  Rupee. 

Table  Rice, 13  to    16  seers  per  Rupee. 

Common  Rice, 35  to    35  seers  per  Rupee. 

Single  Loaves  of  Bread,    .    .    20  to    35  loayes  per  Rupee. 

Butter  Biscuits, 3  seers  per  Rupee* 

Plain  Biscuits, 4  seers  per  Rupee. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERT.  495 


CALCUTTA  MONEY  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


'  COINS. 


20  Gundas  ,       ■ 

4  Puns      J-«l°altoi 
4  Annas 


Accounts  are  kept  here  in  Rupees,  with  their  subdivisions, 
Annas  and  Pie;  12  Pie  make  1  Anna;  16  Annas  one  Rupee. 

The  standard  of  the  Bengal  money  has  ever  been  silver. 
Gold  is  occasionally  coined,  but  the  great  bulk  of  the  cur- 
rency is  silver. 

Cowries,  small,  white,  glossy  shells,  are  made  use  of  for 
small  payments  in  the  Bazar,  and  are  generally  thus 
r^oned« 

4  Cowries"!  fl  Gunda. 

1  Pun, 
1  Anna, 
^1  Cahun,  which  is  about  Jof  a  Rupee. 

But  they  rise  and  fall  according  to  the  demand  there  is 
for  them,  and  the  quantity  in    the   market. 

Local  Weights  and  Measures. 

The  subdivisions  of  the  ponderary  systems,  throughout  the 
whole  of  British  India,  generally  agree  in  name,  though  they 
differ  in  value.     Thus  in    every  case, 

*  Dhans 1  Ruttee. 

8  Ruttees 1  Masha. 

12  Mashas 1  Tolah. 

5  Tolahs 1  Chittack. 

16  Chittacks 1  Seer. 

^0  Seers l  Maund. 

The  Number  of  Dhans  in  a  Ruttee,  and  the  number  of 
Tolahs  in  a  chittack,  is    arbitrary. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


496 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 


THE  COMMERCIAL  WEIGHTS  OF  INDIA, 

Compared  with  the  British  Indian  Unit  op  Weight  and 
WITH  THE  Avoirdupois  System  op  England. 

(Selected  from  Princep*8  Tables.) 


tu 

Place. 

Denomination  of  Weights. 

4i 

%< 

o^ 

:?«9 

I 

^ 

>^ 

ft.   OE.  dr. 

Tolahi. 

Mnns. 

BlNiJLES. 

Tola  of  215  0x8.  Troy,.    - 

... 

1,194 

Seer  of  106  Sa.  Wt.,   - 

2    10  ... 

105 

l.Sl'25 

Seer  of  103        do. 

2      9     2 

103 

1.2875 

Seer  of  96        do,    - 

2      6     7 

96 

1.2000 

Calcutta. 


COBSIXBAZAR 

{Bengal.) 


CULPZZ 


{A^a.) 


FURUKHABAD 
llCDOEE   (If«/tP«.) 


Malwa 
{Central  India.) 

Patna     {Behar,) 


Bee  the  Tahlee,    Grain    Weights    or  measures  are  derived  firon 
the  others,  as  follows: 

1    Koonkee=^5  Chittacks, 

1    Raik»4      Koonkees«=li 
Seer,  -  -         • 

1    PaUy^i  Eaiks— 5  Seers, 

1    Soally  =  20    Pallies=2* 

Mannds,       -      -       -      .205S-7th 
Seers,    of  76.  78. 80,  and  82. 10 

ToUhs, 
Seer,  for  sugar,  Metals,  Grain 

„    for  Ghee,        -        -        - 

,    for  Cotton,         -         • 

,    for  Grain,  Wholesome,    - 

,    Wholesale  HO  Sa.  Wt., 

,    retail,  94     do. 

,,    for  Spice,     82     do. 
Seers  of  8*2  Oujein  Rupees,     . 
Maund  of  20  Seers,  for  Grain 
Mannee  of  12  Maunds,    - 
Maund  of  40  Seers  for  Opium, 
&c.,     -       -        -       -       - 
Totalofl2Maahas,      - 
Seer  of  84  Salimsahy,  Ba.         -     2 
Maund  of  20  Seers,     -      •  40 

Tolah  of  12  Mashas,  209  grains 

Seerfrom45to81  Sa.Wt.  ...  80.         I.IOOO 


2 
40 

486 


81      0 
190  gr. 
0       6 
7       8 


25 

90 
400 

5.400 

Tolahs. 
82.487 
92.816 
94.184 
95.652 
110. 
94. 
82 
78!803 


12. 
1.056 
78.689 

1.161 
80. 


2.500 

Mnns. 
(1.0310) 
(1.1602) 
(1.1773) 
(1.1944) 
(1.3625) 
(1.1750) 
(1.0250) 
(1.9860) 
0.4925 
5,9096 

0.9849 


(0.4918) 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKEKT. 

MADEAS  PRICE  CURRENT. 


497 


FISH. 

Boeball, 4-    to  2  annas  «acli. 

Mallet,  -^    to  2  „         „ 

Wtcd, 1  „         „ 

Fomplet^  white  and  blacky        .        •        1    to  6  ^^         „ 

Whiting,  3  or  4  for     •        •        •        .  1  „  „ 

Diy,  do.  6  for  •        .        .  1  i^         ^^ 

Seer  fish,    •        ...        •        .        •    2    to  4  ,,  ^, 

Dry,  do.  •  .         •        ^        8    to  4  „         „ 

Oysters,  per  hundred,  ...  4  „  „ 

Prawns,  3  dozen  for  .         •        .  1  pie 

do.    large  1  do 1  „ 

BEEF. 
Prime  pieces,  »        •        .1st  sort,    per  lb.  2  annas. 

do 2d    do.        do.  1^     „ 

do.  •        .        •        •3d    do*        do*  1       „ 

Briskets  and  Bound,     .        •  1st  do.        do.  2       „ 

do.  .         •         •         .     2d    do.         do.  1^     „ 

do 8d    do.         do.  1       „ 

Heat  for  Soup, 1       >> 

Shin,  .        •        .        •  1st  do.      each,  6       „ 

do.         •        •        •        .        .     2d     do.        do.  4       jj 

Tongue,       ....         Jarge  do.  1^  rupees 

do «    .       small  do.  I        „ 

Heart,        .        •        •        .  large  do.^  2  annas. 

do small  do.  2      ,, 

Harrow  Bone,     .        .         •        /^.        .        .        .  2      „ 

Peet,  four, 8      „ 

$aet, per  lb.  6      „ 

VEAL,  SMALL. 

Hmd  Quarter,       .        .        .     Ist    sort,    per  lb.  6  as.  kid* 

do 2cl      do.        do.  5    „ 

do.       '  •        •         •         •3d      do.        do,  4    ^y 

V  2 

Digitized  by  CjOOQIC 


498 


INDIAN  DOItBanO   XCONOICY 


Fore  Quarter, 

.    1st 

sort. 

per  lb 

,8    as.  kid. 

do. 

.        .        2d 

do. 

do. 

n    ., 

do. 

.    8d 

do. 

do. 

i      „ 

VEAL,  LARGE. 

Hind  Quarter, 

.     Ist 

sort. 

5    rupees. 

do. 

2d 

do. 

3    to 

5i      „ 

do. 

.    8d 

do. 

2    to 

4         n 

Fore  Quarter, 

1st 

do. 

2i  to 

K      „ 

do. 

.        .        .    2d 

do. 

2    to 

H     „ 

do.    .        « 

8d 

do. 

1    to 

H     „ 

Head,    . 

.    Ist 

do. 

each 

U     „ 

do.         .        • 

2d 

do. 

do. 

4     ,. 

do.      .        . 

.    8d 

do. 

do. 

8    annas. 

Feet,  four. 

Ist 

do. 

do. 

8        „ 

do.    •        . 

.        .        .    2d 

do. 

do. 

5        „ 

do.       .        . 

8d 

do. 

do. 

4        „ 

Liver  and  Heart, 

.    1st 

do. 

do. 

3        „ 

do.    . 

2d 

do. 

do. 

^T         » 

do. 

.        .        .    8d 

do. 

do. 

8       » 

MUTTON. 

Saddle^ »        •    4    rupees. 

Leg, 1st   sort^  .          1         „ 

Leg  and  Loin, ^i       m 

Shoulder  and  Neck,       •        ;        •        ,  ^          1         ,, 

Breast,       •        •        •        .       Ist     do.  •        .12    annas* 

Saddle,    .....          2d     do.  •           3    rupees. 

Leg,            .         •         •         •       2d     do.  4         •       It    >> 

Loin,       .        •        .         .          2d     do*  •         12    annas. 

Shoulder  and  Neck,      .        .            .  .        .     12      „ 

Breast,     .          ...         2d     do*  ,          ^       » 

Saddle,         .      •          •        .    3d     do*  .        .2   rupees. 

Leg,  Loin,  Shoulder,  and  Neck,  8d     do*  .          1^    ,, 

Breast,          •        .        *        •    Sd     do.  •        t      4  aimas* 

Tongue> *  3    or    4    pies* 

Brains,    •        *        •        »        *        •  •   3    or    4      ,» 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  OOOKBRT.  499 

Head,        • .-2  annas. 

Feet,  four, 4  pies. 

Liver  and  Heart, 2  annas. 

Suet,         -        -        -        per  lb,        -        -  6  „ 

MUTTON  FOE  NATIVES. 

First  sort,       -    *    -        -    per  seer^        -        -  S  annas. 

Second  do.  -        -        -            do.         -        -  1+  „ 

Third  do.         -        -         -        do.  -        -        -  1  „ 

Head,  feet,  liver,  and  heart,  -        -        -        -  •  ,^ 

Brains, -            8  or  8  pies, 

KID,  SMALL. 

Hind  Quarter,  -        -        -        1st  sort,  per  K,  4  annas* 

do.       -        -        ^        -    2d    do.     do.  S  ,, 

do.            -        -        .        8d    do.    do.  2^  „ 

Pore  Quarter,      -        *        -     1st    do.     do.  4  „ 

do.  -        -         -         -        2d    do.     do.  8  „ 

do.       -        *        •        -    Qd    do.    do*  1  ,1 

KID,  LAEGE. 

Hind  Quarter,.     -        -        -     1st  sort,  per  lb,  6  annas, 

do.   -        -        -        ^        8d    do.    do.  4  i. 

Fore  Quarter,        -        -'        -     1st    do.    do.        5  ^ 
do.    -        -        -        -        8d    do.     do.        8^      „ 

do.        -        -        *        -    3d    do,     do.  3  „ 

Head,  feet,  liver,  and  heart,  -         -        -         -        4  » 

POEK,  FRESH  AND  SALT. 


Pork, 

Pig,  roasting,  large  size, 

do.    do.  small  do. 
Pig's  head,  - 


Pigs^  feet,  large. 


per  lb, 
each,   - 
do. 

do.  - 
per  lb,' 
per  set. 


-    £ 

8 

S  to    6 

1 
.    4 

2 


annas, 
rupees. 

t9 
39 

annas. 

99 


Digitized  by 


Google 


fiOO 


INDIAN  BOMSSTIC  lOONOMT 


Pig's  liver  and  heart. 
Salt  Pork,  country. 
Pigs'  feet,  small,   - 


Geese,       -        -        . 
Turkey  Cock,  Bombay, 

do.   Hen,     do. 
Powl,  large,    - 

do.  small. 
Chickens,  large, 

do.  small) 
Ducks,  large, 

do.  small. 
Hens'  Eggs,     • 
Ducks'  do.  - 


per  lb, 
per  sety 


POULTfir. 


each, 

do.    - 

do. 

do.    - 

do. 
per  doz. 

do. 
each, 

do. 


5 


2^  to 
li  to 


6 
2 
S 
8 


to 
to 
or 
or 


6 

6 

8 
1 

15 
8 
4 
S 
8 


r.  Si 
anni&l 


pes. 


FRUITS  OF  SOETS. 


sort^ 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 


Pine  apples,      -        -        -  1st 

do.  .        -        .        -  2d 

Pummelos,        -        -        -  1st 

do 2d 

Guavas,    -        -        •         -  1st 

do. «d 

Oranges,  -        -        -        -  Ist 

do. «d 

Water  melon,  large,   -        .  - 
do.      do.    small,      .        -        . 

Plantains  red,  large,  -        -  - 
do.         do.  small,      - 

do.    yellow,  large,  -        -  . 
do.      do.    small,      ... 

Limes,    ----- 

Potatoes,  Neilgherry,  large,    -        per  viss, 

do.  do.  small,  -        do. 

Tams,  -      .  •        -        •        -  do. 

Onions^  large,  -       . «        -  -        do. 
do.     small^      •        -        *        -do. 


each, 

do. 

do. 
each, 

8  for 
12  for 

2  for 

4  for 
each, 

do. 

4  for 

6  for 
18  for 
16  for 
22  for 


6 
4 
6 

1 

I 
1 

1 

1 

9 
1 

1 
1 

I 
1 
3 

H 

5 
4 


annas. 

annas, 
fanam. 


anna. 

pie. 

fanam. 


fanam. 
annas. 

99 
5J 

if 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AMD  COOKBBY. 

DRY  FRUITS  OP  SORTS. 


501 


Almonds,    .        •        .        . 

1st  sort,  per  viss,        8  annas. 

do.      •        .        •        • 

2d   do.       do. 

6  to  7      „ 

BREAD,  FLOUR 

,  ROLONG,  ETC. 

A  loaf  of  let  poiz  IS  oz.      . 

.    each. 

.     1    fanam. 

do.    of  2d   do.  18  „    • 

•          do.       • 

1     anna. 

do.    Brown,   •        .         , 

do. 

.  40    cash. 

Flour,  wheat, 

per  lb.  • 

6  as.  8  pies. 

Belong, 

do. 

•    6    „    „ 

Sago,  fine,        •        •        • 

do. 

2    annas. 

do.  coarse,        •        •         • 

do. 

.    H      ,, 

Arrowroot, 

do. 

H      ,. 

MILK  AND  BUTTER. 

Cows*  Milk,      . 

.    per  seer. 

.     4    annas. 

do.    Batter, 

per  cap,  . 

6  to  8  „ 

Buffaloes'  Milk, 

.    per  seer. 

.     2i        „ 

do.        Batter, 

per  cap,  . 

4 

OIL,  CANDLES,  AND    SOAP. 


Cocoanat  Oil, 

do.        do.     . 
Ginjlee, 

Candles,  Europe, 
Soap,  coantry, 


Sugar  candy. 
Sugar,  white, 

do.    red. 
Brown,    • 
Jagree, 


1st  sort,  per  md.  8^  rupees. 


2d   do.  do. 

•        .            do*  do. 

••        •        per  lb.,  •   , 
.    per  viss, 

SUGAR  OP  SORTS. 


2  rs.  10  as. 
*   >9    12  „ 
l-j-  rupees. 
S    annas. 


Ist  sort,  per  viss,  12    annas. 
Ist  do.        do.        6 

•  do.        do.        4 
do.        do.        ItoS 

•  do.        do«       2 


GHEE  OF  SORTS. 


First  sort,        .        .        .    per  viss. 
Second  do do. 


10    annas. 
8       „ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


502  INDIAN    DOMESTIC   ECONOMY. 

MADRAS  MONEY,  WEIGHTS,  AND  MEA8UBES. 


COINS. 


The  new  currency  in  Madras,  consists  of  Bupe^,  half 
and  quarter  Bupees,  double  and  single  Annas,  and  in  cop- 
per, half  and  quarter  Annas  and  single  Pies. 

Accounts  are  kept  in  Bupees,  with  their  subdivisionsi 
Annas  and  Fie,  thus  : 

12  Pice, 1  Anna. 

16  Annas,  .        .        .        •        I  Bupec* 

3^  Bupees  exchange  in   aiccount  for  1  Pagoda. 

The  Star  Pagoda  is  exchanged  in  the  bazar  for  abont 
45  Fanams. 

The  old  coins  in  circulation  are  the  Star  Pagoda,  the 
Arcot  Bupee,  the  double  and  single  Fanam,  and  the  Doo-^ 
die.  There  is  also  a  copper  coin  sent  out  from  Europe^ 
of  20>  10,  5,  and  1  cash  value,  the  latter  being  worth 
8*75ths,  or  about  the  9th  part  of  a  farthing. 


WEIGHTS. 

10  Pagoda  weight,  =  1  PoUam. 
40  Pollams,    •      .  =  1  Viss- 

8  Viss,      .       .      =  1  Md.  wt.  26  lb.  Avoirdupois. 
20  Maunds,    .      .  =  1  Candy,  500  lb.  Avoirdupois. 


MBASURBS. 

Grain  or  Dry  Measure. 

8  OUocks,      .      .  =  1  Measure,  or  Puddy. 
8  Measures,        .     =  1  Marcal. 
400  Marcals,     .       •  =  1  Garce,  wt.  9256^  lbs. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY. 


503 


Eaoh  parah  is  to  be  2   feet  square  and  6:^  inches  deep. 

A  parah   of  chunam   is   5   marcals. 

Milk^  Oil,  Ohee,  kc,  are  sold  by  the  grain  measure, 
containing  8  ollocks;  20  oUocks  are  equal  to  1  English 
Crallon. 

The  Covid  in  Cloth  Measure  -is  18  inches,  but  the 
English  yard   of  36   inches  is   generally    used. 


Table  of  ExchcMge  for  the  Settlement  of  the  Madras  Ouitoma* 


CowUry, 

Value  in  Madras  Cmreney, 

Great  Britain      . 

fiance 

India,      .... 

GvAou   and  Cape  of  Good 

Portugal,    *    ,   ■    .   "    .  ' 
Denmark,    .        .        .        . 
Sweden,  .... 

Pound  Sterling,  .      \ 
DoUar,     .... 
Lirre  Toumois  of  France,    . 
Sicca  Rupee,    .        ,        , 
Bombay  Rupee,  . 

Rix  DoUar,      .       ,       . 
Milrea,        .        .        .        . 
Rix  Dollar,     . 

Do 

10  Compan/s  Rs,  each. 
2  Rupees  3  Annas  do. 
»Rs.  11  As.  for  24 
106  Rs.   8  As.  for  100 

1  Rupee  each. 

14  Annas  each. 

2  Rupees  8  Annas  each. 
2  Rupees  4  Annas  each. 
8  Rupees  4  Annas  each. 

jsrsOBE. 

COINS. 

16  Cash  make =»  1  Fananu 

10  Fanams ....=  1   Cantaria  Pagoda=:6«.  4J.  Ster. 

6  Cantaria  Pagodas  are   equal  to  5   Star   Pagodas  or   17^ 
Madras   Bupees. 

MEASURES. 

40  Pucca  Seers  make  ^^  1  Morah. 

60    do =  1  Batty. 

521     do =  1  Garce. 

The  Candy  equals   560  lb    Avoirdupois. 

9  Trichinopoly   measures  :=  50  /  lb  Avoirdupois. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


604  INDIAN   DOKBSnC  SCONOHT 

SXCHAK0E8. 

The  Star  Pagoda  is  45  Fanams. 
The  Bahadry  Fag.  is  46  Fanams  29  cash  =  8^.  3J.  Ster. 

HTDERABAD. 
COINS. 

15  Pice  make    1    Anna. 

16  Annas  make  1    Hyderabad  Bopee. 

SXCHAN6E. 

8884^   Hyderabad  Rupees  equal  to  350  Madras  Bupees. 

PONBICHERRT. 

COINS. 

60  Cash  make  1    Fanam. 
£4  Fanams  t,    1    Pagoda. 
Madras  Coins  are  also  in  currency  here. 

Gold  and  Silver  are  weighed  by  the  Seer  of  24}  Bupees^ 
81^  Pagodas,   or   1%\\   Fanams. 

A  Bupee  weight  =  30  Fanams,   or   480   Nellas. 

A  Pagoda  weight  is  9  Fanams,   or   144       do. 

3  Bapees  equal  in  weight  to   10  Star  Pagodas. 

1  Seer  equals   4293  grains  Troy. 

COHMBKCUL  WIfilGHTS. 

8  Viss  make  1   Maund  »  S5  Ks.  14  oz.   5^^  drs. 

80   Maunds  make     1   Candy «»  517  Ifis*  14  oz.    14  drs. 
Bice  and  all  other  sorts  of  Grain  are  sold  by  the  garce 
of  600   Marcals. 

100  Marcals  equal  to  18  English  Bushels  nearly. 
The  Garce  =  13-^  English  Quarters, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    GOOKEilY. 


605 


THE  COMMERCIAL  WEIGHTS  OF  INDIA, 
Compared  with  the  British   Indian   Unit   of   Weight 

AND  WITH  THE  AvoiRDUPOlS   SysTEM   OF  ENGLAND. 


(Selected  /ram  Prinsep's  Tables.) 


Place. 


Ajlcot. 


BlLLiET.     {Mad, 
udtd   dutrieU.) 

Maobas. 


Deaomination  of  Weights. 


Maivlitatam. 

[Madrat:) 


Mnon. 

POBDICBZKRT. 


TUTAHCORe. 

{liaiabar,) 

Teichinopolt. 

[Cvnatic.) 


Packa  Seer  of  24  Pollams.     - 
Puddy,  for  grain»47  do.     -    - 
Rikcha  Seer,  of  24  Rupees.     - 
Do.    Maond  of  40  Seers,     - 
Candy  of  20  Maunds.   .    -    . 
Pncka  Seer,  for  grain,  84  Rs.  - 
Candy  of  20  Colages,  or  160  Srs. 
Marcal  of  9, 10, 12,  &c.  to  96  Srs. 
Seer  of  21  Mysore  Rs,  or  Tolab. 

Maond,  48  Seers, • 

Maond,  for  Cotton,»li  Noggah 
Thinapoo,  grain  meas.  112  Ra.  . 
Marcal,  Chonam  do.sl2  Seen. 
Pagoda  weiglit«52.56  grs.  •  • 
Biaond  of  40  Seers  or  8  Yiss.  - 
Candy  of  20  Maonds.  .... 
Garce  for  Grain=:12.8  Mds.  - 
Poddy,  Oil  Mea.  ^^  Ollucks  or 
Parah,  for  Chanam=»5  Marcals. 
Mangelin  for  Pearls=:6  Gnins.  - 

18  Madras  Chows=65  Bychows, 
Tolah^SO  Chunams.  .  .  .  . 
Kucha  Seer  and  Mds.  as  Madras. 

Pucka  Maund=»40  Seer  of  2  fts, 
Seer  of  90  Madras  Pagodas.     . 

Seer  of  72  do.  (for  Metals.)  .    . 

Seer  of  96  do.  (for  Cotton.)    - 

Marcal,  Grain  Measore  12  Seers. 

Garce        do.    do.    4800  Seers. 

:Seer=24  Mysore  Rfi.  of  179  Grs. 

Seer  of  24]^  Pon.  Us.=»781i  Pan 

Maund  of  8  Viss.     ..... 

Garce  of  Grain=100  Marcals.  - 

Tolah  of  20  Pounds.     ... 

Candy  of  30  Tolahs  for  purchase. 
do.    20  Maonds  for  sale,    > 

Parah,  grain  measure,     ... 

Pncka  Seer=>27  Pollams.  .    . 

Mannd=»  13.114  Seers.    .    •'  . 

Seer  for  Metals»4167-7  grs. . 

Marcal,  grain  mea,  1^  GiUlon. 


lb. 
1 
3 
0 
25 

500 
2 

336 

0 
25 
26 


OS.  dr, 
13  0 

8  12 
10  0 

0  0 

0 

1 
12 


1< 


25 
500 
320 
9375 
3750 


0  0 
0  0 
0    0 

cub.  in. 
cub.  in. 


•^0 

80 
0 


Tolahs, 
70.486 
137.930 
24.304 


81.640 


20.621 


112, 

1008. 

0.292 

24.304 


0 
0 

3i 


4 

0 

0 

0 

5.6 

0 


179.04 
11 
0 
9 

12 
8 
0 
1250 
0      9  13 
0      9  lU 
25    14    5} 
13^  quarters, 
19    14  11 
5967    8  10 
500      8    2 
2  quarts 
1     14    8 


25 
0 


0,995 
27.342 

2i',876 
29.165 
20.210 
gallons, 
do, 

28.850 
23.622 


74.132 
23,167 


Muns. 
(0.8811) 

0.8038 
0.3038 
6.0764 
1.0230 
4.0926 

0.2578 

0.3083 
0.3199 

0.8150 

0.3038 
6.0764 
3.8888 


(0.8418) 
0.9722 
0.2734 
0.3646 


(0.2981) 
0.3146 

0.2420 

7.2618 
6.0826 

0.3038 
(0.2896) 


Q2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


506 


INDIAN  iwinanc  zconomy. 


PlMe. 


Denominatum  of  Weights. 


Htdeuabad. 
{Deecau.) 


Jaulvah. 
{Eydrabad.) 


LvCKlfOW. 

{Oude,) 


lb.  oz.  dr. 

Seer  of  80  Hyderabad.  Rs      1  15  12 

Kucha  Maund  of  13  SeerB.  23  13    0 

Pukca     do.    of  40    do.      79  6    0 

PTillaofl20Seer8for selling.  288  2    0 
Tolah  of  12  Mashas.            184.5     gzs. 

Pucka,  SeerofRs.  for  Grain.     2  0    1 

do.    Maund  of  40  Seers.    80  8    8 
Kucha  Maund  of  12  Seers 

(for  Ghee,  Liquids,  &c. 

Measure.) 
Seer  of  100  Lucknow  Ks. 


24 
2 


7  12 
0  6f 


Tolahs 
77.710 


1.025 
77.926 


95.817 


Muns. 
(0.9546) 
(0.2293) 
(0.9646) 
(2.8938) 


0.9471 


0.2923 
1.1977) 


CEYLON  MONEY,  WEIOHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


COINS. 

Accounts    are  kept   in    English  Currency^   and   the    old 
Coins  in  circulation   are  as  follow  : 
4  Pice  make   1  Fanam. 

12  Fanams  ,,    1  Bix  Dollar  of  48  Stivers^   value  Is.   9d. 
Sterling. 

EXCHANGES. 

4  English  or   3   Dutch  Chalees  equal  1  Pice, 
Dutch  Ducaton  pass  for  80  Stivers. 

do.     Shilling 74^    do. 

Negapatam  Pagoda 90      do. 

Silver  Rupee 30      do. 

The  Stiver  or  cash  is  a  copper  coin. 

All  the  coins  of  the  Coromandel  Coast  are  current  in  Ceyloa. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  607 

The  Star  Pagoda  fluctuates  from  59  io  61  ^  Fanams  ia 
Bills   drawn  on  Madras. 

The  Sicca  Bupee  passes  for  18  Fanams  either  in  Specie 
or  Bills. 

.  The  Bombay  Rupee   do.         17  do.  in  Bills. 

18  do.  Bazaar. 

The  Spanish  DoUar  from  37  to  39  Fanams. 

350  Arcot  Bupees  equal  400  Ceylon  Bupees  or  Rix  Dol- 
lars, but  bills  are  generally  drawn  from  490  to  500  £ix 
Dollarsi  per  850   Madras  Rupees. 

WEIGHTS. 

The  Bahar  or  Candy  of  480  lbs.  Dutch  Troy  or  620^  lbs. 
Avoirdupois ;  but  the  English  weights  are  in  nse  here.  The 
Candy  or  Bahar  contains  600  lbs.  Avoirdupois  or  461  lbs. 
Dutch  Troy.  One  complete  bag  or  146  lbs.  net  or  168  lbs. 
Avoirdupois  gross  weight.  The  Garce  equals  9255-^  lbs.  or 
82  cwt.  2  qrs.  164-  ^s*  Avoirdupois,  A  Bale  of  Cinnamon  is 
94  lbs.  Dutch  Troy^  or  102  S5s.  Avoir,  gross :  the  tare  is 
14  Ks*,  so  that  the  net  is  80  lbs.  Dutch  Troy,  or  86^  lbs. 
'Avoirdupois.  The  anna  of  Rice  in  the  husk  is  240  lbs. 
Dutch  Troy,  er  260|^  lb.  Avoirdupois. 

LONG   MKASUKS. 

The  Covid  is  I84.  English  Inches. 

DRY    MEASURE. 

4    CutChundoos  make -...1  Cut  Measure  or  Seer. 

4^  Seers 1  Corney. 

2f  Marcales 1  Parah. 

8    Parahs 1  Ammonam. 

9-1^  Ammonams  or  1800  Meas...l  Last. 

Qili  Milk  ^nd  Ghee,  are  sold  by  Chundoos  and  Measures* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


£08 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC    ICONOMT 


The   Parah  measures  16.7  English  Square  Inches,  aud    5.6 
Inches   deep;   and   contains   6^  English  Wine  GhiUoiis. 

A  measure  of  salt  weighs  44  lbs. 
CofTee  and  Pepper,  &c.     80  lbs. 

WINK   MEASURE. 

15    Drams  make 1  Quart. 

2     Quarts 1  Canade. 

2i  Canades 1  Gallon. 

5         do.  or  2  Gallons 1  Welt. 

75     Welts  make 1  Leaguer. 

Arrack    is   bought  at    80  Welts   and  sold  at  75   Welta 
the  Leaguer. 

The  Long  and  Land  Measures  are  the  same  as  in  England. 


AURUNGABAD  PRICE  CURRENT. 

Price  of  AHieles  sold  in  the  Cantonment  Bazaar  during  tie  Year 
1847  and  part  of  1848* 


Wheat '^Ks. 

do.  Flour...  „  ... 
Javary „   .. 

do.  Flour...  „  ... 
Bajree „  ... 

do.  Flour  „  ... 
Chenna „  ... 

do.    Flour  „  ... 

do.  Dhall  „  ... 
Toovur „  .., 

do.  Dhall  „  .. 
Moong „  .. 

do.  Dhall  „  .. 
Oodud „  .. 

do.    Dhall  „  .. 


Average  Phoe  ofi  Average  price  of 
article*  nom  the  articles  froni  the 


the 

Ist  Janoanr  to 

the  «th  Febrn- 

ary,  1847. 


15J  to 
13i  to 
32  to 
27  to 
35  to 
29 

19    to 
15 
16 
28 

14  to 
28 

18    to 
28 
18    to 


16  sr. 
14  „ 
36  , 
29   , 


20 

18 
23 
23 


lOth  March,  to 

the  36th  March, 

1847. 


Average] 
the  articles  r 


15th  November, 

to  the  18th  Feb- 

maiy.  IMa. 


21 

17i 

42 

34 

42 

34 

22 

14 

16 

34 

21 

30 

18 

30 

18 


of  Avenge  arfioe«r 

the^artielea  hum  the 
lSthAfiri],to 
tfaedtTlUr, 
184*. 


to  22  sr. 
to  19 
to  44 
to  36 
to  44 
to  36 


to  24 
to  24 
to  24 


16 

IH 

55 

40 

48 

40 

18 

12 

14 

40 

20 

36 


tolTsr. 
to  15,; 
to  56, 

to  50 ', 

to  19' 


to24„ 
to  40 


24,30  to  32, 

35 

22     to  21  : 


35 
28 
60 
48 
55 
40 
85 
20 
28 
50 
31 
35 
22 
26 
16 


to  36  ar. 

to21  ^ 

to  62  „ 

to49  „ 

to  56  „ 

to  42  „ 

to  36  „ 


to  32 
to  28 


to  20 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOXKttY. 


50d 


Musaoor. ....  As. 

do.    Dhall  „  .. 

Rice „  .. 

Ghee „  .. 

Goor „  .. 

Sugar „  .. 

do.    Candy  „  .. 

Mydah „  .. 

Soujee ,  .. 

Salt „  .. 

Saltpetre »,  .. 

Oil  Karadee.  „  .. 
do.  Thillee. .  ,» .. 
do.  Cocoanut ,,  .. 
do.  Castor...  ,,  .. 
CoVb  Milk.  „  .. 
Buffalo's  do.  »,  .. 
Table  Butter  „  .. 
Bazaar  do.    „  ., 

Suet „  .. 

Beef „.. 

Table  mutton   ^ 

seer. 

Bazaar  mutton  ^ 

seer 

Loaves 

Muffin. 

Blown  loaves,  ^ 

loaf. 

Biscuits 

Charcoal 

Wood 

Hemp* 

Twine 

Cotton . 

TowlSy  full  grown 

do.    half     do. 
Chiekens. ...  „  .. 

Efgs >» .. 

Pioe  (exchange).. 


12  sr. 

6  to  14  „ 

^  to2in 

54  to  5^ 
li2to2i 

4  to  9 

6^  to  7 
16 


Avfnge  price 

aiticlea  turn  the 

l«t  Jamunr,  to 

the  Itth  yeb- 

fiMiy.lg«7. 


ofl&renfnj 


12  sr. 

6  to  14  „ 
2ito2i  „ 
6i  to  6     „ 

li 
10 

9 
18 


7 

16 
20 
10 

P 

8 


balls, 
seers. 

to  13 


2^     Annas. 

S  to  10  sr. 
12 


3 

2.3 
70 

14 
4 

4 

6 

8 

70 

70 


Pice, 
to  4  sr, 

to  5md, 
seers. 


1847. 


H 

16 
20 
10 

s» 

8 


balls, 
seers 

to  13  ! 


2^^     Annas. 

8    to  10  sr 
15 


Pice, 
sr. 


2i  P 
2,3  to  4 
70 

4^  to  5md. 
12        seers 

H 

4 

6 

8 
69 
69^ 


price 
from  the 


^.  jprice  ofjAvenge 

artidea  Irom  the 

10th  March  to     . 

the  96th  March,  to  the  18th  Peb* 


»   ,      or 

ifirtidei 

16th  November. 


raary. 


1848. 


A^e  rage  price  of 

artidea  fhim  the 

16th  April  to 

the  8th  Mar, 

1848.    • 


20 

17 

6 

? 

2 

9 
16 

4 

7 

5 

2 

3 

16 
20 
10 

3 

6 

8 


sr. 


8 
14 


to  16 
to  2i 
to  4 

to2i;; 

tolj,, 


to  5 


30 
24 

6  to  18 

7  to8 
2    to2i 
li  to2 

10    to  16 
12,  15  &  1'6 
18 

4    to5 

8 

6 

2 

3 
16 


balls 
seers 

to  13 ! 


2^     Annas. 


to  10  sr. 


3 

2,3 
70 

.? 

4 

4 

4 

6 

8 
62 
6H 


Pice, 
to  4  sr. 

to  5md 

seers 

to  4i, 


10 
3 
6 

8 


balls, 
seers. 


to  13 


2|     Annas. 

8    tolOsr. 
17 
34 

34  perRupee. 
3^,4  to  5  sr. 

.   "': 

*     to6  „ 

i 

6 

8 

124 
62 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTER  XXXI. 


-;   ;   ;   zKi    :'*    :* 


ikt«M«o^^   :::::::: 


:::::::::::::::  t  :::  : 


z 

i 

o  •? 


Uliim 


:-«M«9 -"•»—•• 


««o«oeeo«Deo«oe0»«ao<D<e»ai-«o«faDOk0»r-iO«Qf«i^   : 


01  ©J 


I 


o  :? 


I' 


|||||l5g^S858as« 


rrrTTrrrrTTTTTTTTTiTiiifiififfii 

:  :  :  :  :   :oo<De 
>  Mi  o  lO  o  lo  c^  o  ot  le 


:::::::::::::::';:::;  :Moe«ooi«o^^oe9^eMM 
:oo<De<oo»OfQ<Da»'#«e«0»2^«^<o^e«ri.H   ; 
oooooeMioiooioc^ootiet*«Oka«t«ao0»t>to<Nr4i-«  :::::::: 


D0»^«0OI#4 


»  lO  >»»  OM  »iw 


rrTTTTlTTTTTTTTTTTTTllflf^l^ 

u>ao«oao^oO'«aoo«ao««ao«ao«e<e^et«a«oaeo<«r-4iA«o«r-«   ;   :   :   :    : 
Sg|||25|gS55ife2**«'«-1  ::::::::  I  ::::::  : 


O 

a 

o 

s 

3 


f 

^ 

s 


"nrnTTTiiiigigiiii 


::::::::::::::::::::  :o«©o«oM*io— « 

•»  V  OD  O  ^OD  ^  QOO  ^  00  O  a0<O«Olt*«>Ok  O  ^  ^  0*  ^b«»  ^OlO^ 


'«t»  :  :   :  :  : 


illlsissis' 


S^aSC**"""  :•:•::: 


1^1 


|S||||||88S8g2**— 


iS*'*****'^  : 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDUN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY  AND   COOKERY.  511 


I 


SI 

11 


^flO«ooo«ao-«oas^ao«occ-4iao^Oao«oo^ooD-4ioiMr-««Of-«r-i 


«  V  00  o  <«  00  <<•  00  e  <«ao  o  0040  •«  a«  fr<>ao  e 

<0  M  <0  O  09  <0  CD  <0  iA  eO  •^  O  «0  t^OO  Ok  •«•  r4  OO 

§liiiiiiiai&9saa-'« 


:     :O*dMO~9pncO0»Cr4a*^eOMr 

»-4ioMOr*eoao«^«o»aM'4M    • 
am— »««««r-i^   ::::::: 


eooeooeooooooooo<De4oc<Di<9e 
ooooooooeooiooioeoNor-ioo«^o» 


: -s  o«  e«  o  —  M  f-1 9Q - 
e«m>^rH   :   :   :   :  : 


X 

1^ 


•^OO-'^OflO '<4t  OO^O  CO  «  M  ««  OOO  H»  «  ••  0 

M  «o  ne  ««o  •^M  to  «ao  ««9  M  >-*e  e  eo«o^ 


«  «de>o  ^ao«i  coe  «  00^00  o  "#00  ^  Qo  9  ^ooo  ao«o  ^  e»  t«^  « <«i«o  <-i  p^  ■ 
«eo«oe«o«oc«<oe»3«OM«oeo«aot«iiafief40ao<o^M»4«M   :    :    :  :   : 


IS 


s 


o  e  o  o  o  e  o  o  o  o  e  «  o  «o  o  «  CO  o  o»  <o  to  t«  «  ^  CO -«  fc^  o  «D  ^  09 1-^  i-i 

I 
ooeooooorf>e  >OGfior'^o)«etocoo<i^oao«^e«i-Ni-«   :    :   :   :   : 

pi*       •^       -^  mmi^  p^—       »-<  r-i  


ao«oeoo«e»;«0MO«oeoi-««Q«»«DaD^» 


»aDoii»^eQMi-4<DO«e 
•  i-^  O  O  OD  «  ^  o«  •«>-t 


o^aDO^aD-«a>o«aDOaD««ot«>cD«oo 
»«o«oo  «o«oaD<D  «o«o  ^  e  «o«  00  ^a« 


eooo«ov« 


«De«^«o*H#H 


•  Ob  «  in  M 1-4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


512 


INDIAN  DOM£STiC  SCONOUT 


M 

5 
8 


\} 


3  5 


I 


Si 
|i 

si 

9 

I 

s 

3 


i||||illlp5S25s«*«a" 


I  I  I   I  I   t  I   I   11   1 


I  M  M  1  I  I  1  I  i  1  I  1  M  1  I  1  M     I  Mil  |^«>o*»«»«^| 

I    i    I    II    i    I    I    I    II    I    1    I    II    I    II    I«««OflOO«D^.»««-  Mill 

||||||||||IS||||S9S82«-»«o,^^  Ml  1 1 1  n  i  I 


§SigSSSi§SiSS3§HisS§S§^&§§SSSgg3i2«^§ 


t--,««^r-  M  M  II  M  M 


M  M  11  II  II  II  II  M  I  M  M  II  l§i§§§§g§tS§ls3 


oioeo«oo*oeoi*oiAeo»aoieoe«eoi*eotM«^«o«otata%—  i   I  |   I 

||S||||||2|8§§a«as**""'""  1 1  m  1 1 1 1 1 


r 


3SSil3E§S§2g§8l3^Si§3ISSS^§^|§|S3»SS 


•-iao«««0>«-4  I    I    I    I    I 

"- 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 


liiiiiliiipiisiKsa^--- 


II  M  1 II I  n 


ill! 


9-«et^rH  I  1  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I 


II  II  11  i  I  II  i  I  M  II  II  II  M  M  I  II  M  II  II  l*^*"-' 

M  M  I  I  M  i  M  I  I  II  M  11  M  M  M  II  i^-^'*"*— |  i  | 

33  j  M  i  II  I  M  M  M  II  i  i  II  i  I  ISS-^-'-^^^l  II  I  I  M  I  I 


lipiiiis^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKBBT. 


51S 


I 

1:3 
hi 


St 

8* 


2& 


0S 


6 

I 


^«  rH  r->  r-"  r^        ^ 


|i|i|||||=iilis*»8»=*'""'"'  1 1 ' n 1 1 1 1 1 


OS 


|||||||||i85Si5a«««-"°"''' "  "  "  "  " 


iissiii«iS2f  sss5'*fe««-'-*"'"' "  "  "  "  " 


I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  (  I  I  I  I*—— -'—"'»—="-;" 
1 1 ,,  1 1 1 , 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  i-a-^-a-s-s^""""—  1 1 1 
lillilllPiiSSsS'sa-*"* —  i  n  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 

ssss 


I  I  II  I  ll  M  ll  I  I  M  I  I  I  M  II  I  I  MM  I  I  1  I  I  I- 
I  I  I  M  I  I  I  I  I  I  Ml  I  I  II  I  III  I  I  I  I  M--^"-- 
I  I  Ml  M  I  It  I  III  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  jfiS— "— I  II  I  I  I  I 
||sii||||8|g$S§S-'"""-  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I 


£2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


5U 


INDIAN   DOMESTIC   SCONOUT 


SXCBAMGB   TABIiS. 


SJiOwing  the  Exchange  between  Co.'s  Rupees  and  Sicca  Rupees,  and 

Vice   Versa. 


Sicca  Bupees  to 

Company's 
Eupees. 

Company's 
Eupees  to 

Sicca  Eupees. 

Ks.    A.  F.  B. 

Ra.   A.  p.  D. 

Ra.   A.  F.  B. 

Es.   A.  p.  J). 

100000  

L06666  10  8  ... 

100000  

93750  

50000  

53333  5  4  ... 

50000  

46875  

40000  

42666  10  8  ... 

40000  

37500  

30000  

32000  

30000  

28125  

20000  

21333  5  4  ... 

2O0O0  

18750  

10000  

10666  10  8  ... 

10000  

9375  

5000 

5333  5  4  ... 

5000  

4687  8  

4000 

4266  10  8  ... 

4000  

3750  

3000 

3200 

3000 

2812  8  

2000 

2133  5  4  ... 

2000 

1875  

1000 

1066  10  8  ... 

1000 

937  8  

500  .. 

533  5  4  ... 

500 

468  12  

400  

426  10  8  ... 

400 

375  

300 

320 

300 

281  4  

200 

213  5  4  ... 

200 

187  8  

100  

106  10  8  ... 

100  

93  12  ...  .. 

50  

53  5  4  ... 

50 

46  14  

40 

42  10  8  ... 

40  

37  18  

30 

32  

30  

28  2  

X  20 

21  5  4  ... 

20 

18  2  

10 

10  10  8  ... 

10 

9  6  

5  :  ... 

6  5  4... 

5  

4  11  

4 

4  4  3  20 

4 

3  12  

X   3  

3  3  2  40 

3  

2  13  

2 

2  2  1  60 

2 

1  14  

1  

1  1  ...  80 

1  

15  

12  

12  9  90 

8  6  40 

4  3  20 

3  2  40 

2  1  60 

12  

11  3  ... 

7  6... 

3  9  ... 

2  9  75 

1  10  50 

8  

4 

8  

4 

3  

2  

2  

1  

1  ...  80 

1  

4  25 

9  ... 

9  60 

9  ... 

8  43 

6  ... 

6  40 

6  ... 

5  66 

3  ... 

3  20 

3  ... 

2  82 

2  ... 

2  13 

2  ... 

1  81 

1  ... 

1  7 

1  ... 

r 91 

Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKSRY. 


515 


TABXJi 

OF 

DAXIiT   PAT 

from  1  to  500'    Rupees,  for  months 

0/28. 

29. 

80  and  31  days. 

Rupees 
y  month. 

of  28  Bays. 

of  29  Days. 

of  30  Days. 

of  31  Days. 

1 

0      0 

7 

0      0 

7 

0 

0 

6 

0 

0 

6 

2 

0      1 

2 

0      1 

1 

0 

1 

1 

0 

1 

0 

3 

0      1 

9 

0      1 

8 

0 

1 

7 

0 

1 

4 

0      2 

8 

0      2 

2 

0 

2 

2 

0 

2 

5 

0      2 

10 

0      2 

9 

0 

2 

8 

0 

2 

6 

0      3 

5 

0      3 

4 

0 

8 

2 

0 

3 

7 

0      4 

0 

0      8 

10 

0 

3 

9 

0 

8 

8 

0      4 

7 

0      4 

5 

0 

4 

8 

0 

4 

2 

9 

0      5 

2 

0      5 

0 

0 

4 

10 

0 

4 

8 

10 

0      5 

9 

0      5 

6 

0 

5 

4 

0 

5 

2 

1] 

0      6 

3 

0      6 

1 

0, 

5 

10 

0 

5 

8 

12 

0      6 

10 

0      6 

7 

o' 

6 

5 

0 

6 

2 

18 

0      7 

5 

0      7 

2 

0 

6 

1] 

0 

6 

9 

14 

0      8 

0 

.0      7 

9 

0 

7 

6 

0 

7 

8 

IB 

0      8 

7 

0      8 

8 

0 

8 

0 

0 

7 

9 

16 

0      9 

2 

0      8 

10 

0 

8 

6 

0 

8 

8 

17 

0      9 

9 

0      9 

5 

0 

9 

1 

0 

8 

9 

18 

0    10 

8 

0      9 

11 

0 

9 

7 

0 

9 

8 

19 

0    10 

10 

0    10 

6 

0 

10 

2 

0 

9 

10 

20 

0    11 

5 

0    11 

0 

0 

10 

.8 

0 

10 

4 

21 

0    12 

0 

0    11 

7 

0 

11 

2 

0 

10 

10 

22 

0    12 

7 

0    12 

2 

0 

11 

9 

0 

11 

4 

28 

0    13 

2 

0    12 

8 

0 

12 

8 

0 

11 

10 

24 

0    13 

9 

0    18 

8 

0 

12 

10 

0 

12 

5 

25 

0    14 

8 

0    18 

10 

0 

13 

4 

0 

12 

11 

26 

0     14 

10 

0    14 

4 

0 

18 

10 

0 

18 

5 

27 

0    15 

5 

0    14 

11 

0 

14 

5 

0 

18 

11 

28 

1       0 

0 

0    15 

5 

0 

14 

11 

0 

14 

5 

29 

1      0 

7 

1      0 

0 

0 

15 

6 

0 

15 

0 

30 

1       1 

2 

1      0 

7 

0 

0 

0 

15 

6 

81 

1       1 

9 

1      1 

1 

0 

6 

0 

0 

32 

1      2 

8 

1       1 

8 

1 

1 

0 

6 

33 

1      2 

10 

1       2 

2 

1 

7 

1 

0 

34 

1      8 

« 

1       2 

9 

2 

2 

1 

7 

35 

1      4 

0 

1      8 

4 

2 

8 

2 

1 

36 

1      4 

7 

1      8 

10 

8 

2 

2 

7 

87 

1       5 

2 

1       4 

5 

3 

9 

8 

1 

88 

1       5 

9 

1       5 

0 

4 

3 

3 

7 

89 

1       6 

8 

1       5 

6 

4 

10 

4 

1 

40 

1  '  6 

10 

1      6 

1 

5 

4 

4 

7 

41 

1      7 

5 

1       6 

7 

5 

30 

5 

2 

42 

1      8 

0 

1      7 

2 

1 

6 

5 

5 

8 

43 

1      8 

7 

1      7 

9 

6 

11 

6 

8 

44 

1       9 

2 

1       8 

8 

7 

6 

6 

9 

45 

1      9 

9 

1      8 

10 

8 

0 

7 

8 

46 

1    10 

8 

1      9 

5 

8 

6 

7 

9 

47 

1     10 

10 

1      9 

11 

9 

1 

8 

3 

48 

1     11 

5 

1     10 

6 

9 

7 

8 

9 

49 

1    12 

0 

1     11 

0 

10 

2 

9 

3 

50 

1    12 

7 

1     11 

7 

10 

8 

9 

10 

100 

8      9 

2 

3      7 

2 

3 

5 

4 

8 

7 

200 

7      2 

8 

6     14 

4 

6 

10 

8 

7 

3 

800 

10    11 

5 

10      5 

6 

10 

0 

0 

10 

10 

400 

14      4 

7 

13     12 

8 

33 

5 

4 

12 

14 

5 

500 

17     13 

9 

1    17      3 

10 

16 

10 

3 

16 

2 

1 

Digitized  by 


Google 


516 


INDIAN  OOMBsnC  ECONOUT 


't£BQ 

,Ho»a,^««t.coo.o-222S2*^22gsaSSaS&S§g;; 

•-< 

^eO«00»OOQOC»OOOCDO>O^U>OOCO«0900000Ct«00000«aOO 

p{o  f4  r-t  en  o«  eo  eo -^  ^  to*o  « <o  t^c-oD  00  »o  O  o  ^  ^  M  C9  9»  eo  ^  «  to  e 

r-t 

p;o^<oo»ooeoaaooo<««aoooo«<«oooOol^«oa>oco<««Daoo 
^  «  «  CT  00  ^  «o  ^  ^  t^  eo  ••  o  o  «  o»  eo  o»  lO  to  ^  M  00  "^  lit  O  ph  fc^  eo  00  »  o 
(i  o  O '^  «^  i-H  d  et  soeo  09  <«•  <4i  to  lO  *o  «D  CD  <D  t*  t^oo  00  00  o»  a»  ooo*^»^^ 

1 

'i 

^  "x  00  to  b«  Od  ^  ^  00  to  C«0  »*J  f-H  CO  •«  «0  OO  0004  ^  «0  00  O  O  Ot -^i  O  00  o  o 

^  to  o  o  <«  o»  •«  <«  o»  ^  moo  eo  Gooo  eo  d  t^oicn  K^ci  r-«  CO  •^ -4  « i-io  «  o  o 
^ooeOf-H  *-«r^dc4o)eocoeo^«-«>«o*otocD<D<ec«c«i>ooooaoa»a»a»o 

o 

pi  t^CO  j^  O 'N  O  «  p^  C»  to  r-i  00  "♦  ©  00  CO  ^C*eO  O  CO  oi  o  to  r- ot  ♦  O  w  ^  o 
pjOO  Or-i^rH  CO  tft  d  C9  CO  eo  00  <4(^<4(^  I0«0  ROCOCO  COCO  C^t^fe^OOOO  aOCk 

i 

CO 

1 

00 

*rHeO<4«OCr«OOO^OO^CPOOaftp^OO)eOtOC9000-4^0«^'OI<^00'*-«0 

J  *  GO  d  o  "^  CD  d -•  to  a»  eo  »^  to  ©  eo  o«  CO  o  "♦  o«  CO  o  •♦  CO  fc- F^  •©  eo  r*  w  o 

<               ,^                     r-f                     fH                     »«              .-4i-<              •-«.-<               ^rS 

(4  o  o  o  .-<  ^  i-l  r-«  d  d  dd  ff?  CO  eoeo -*  ^  •*-♦  to  to  »o  «  CO  CO  «  CO  t^  t*r-o» 

4*00  i>o  ^  CI  »o  o»  oto  ^  c«^  •«  c««  o»  n  f-i  ^  oD  ^  •o^^  «D  o  oo  ^  lo  oDc^C 

«D 

^  ^d  93  "^to  «9  oooo  r- odbeo  •«»«o©c.«ooo  ^  o^o«eo-«*ttfe«ao  Okoo 

^  CO  CO  0»  d  •O  d  to  OO  *^  ^  C<  to  00  r-«  •« -4  «  t^  O  09  ^  ^  t^  O  eo  e  03  CO  o»  d  o 

jj  O  o  O  ©  o  ^  »H  ,-1  ,M  ,M  d  01 «  d  d  eo  eo  eo  CO  eo  ^  *  •*  "^ '^  « "O  CO  «o  to  CO 

1 

lO 

p^«r-«oocootoo«>-dO'e«i-««b»-»ooeo'oto'or>«o»'*i-*cooco«o^© 
•4  d  to  t«  O  d  to  d  ^  c«  ca  d  ^ -1  ^  ©  a>  r-i  •«  r-i  eo  ©  00  ^  eo  o  eo  «  OP  o  e>  o 

^- r-l  iH                             i-H  i-^                             i-t-^                             t^w*                             r-4  •-« 

a{©o  o o oo«-i -1  ph ff-4^  *-«ddddd dooeooseoeoco  ic  «<4i^ -^  <«« 

1- 

-^ 

p;o^d«o  eo  <4(ioo©^oo  a»  jM^OrH^deo  ^^cQ  ©i^eoeo  <JiO  *^& 
^'dTr.©©od;2©c«^©©Od^.Heo.o^<»^«»«^«oiot.©2^<^ 
0<o©o©©oo^>-«i-i^i^»-ir^i-iddO«dddddC9eoeecoeoeooo-4« 

eo 

^  ©  f-4C«di  00  ©  o  ^  ;^  to  o  c6  ^  06  d  Ok  CO  ©  r^  ^  oo©c«^d  eo  » <|ko«o  o 
^»HeO'*©t>o>oc««|g-^d'*©t»©o^w^od«©©a)op-«20 

C4 

^  O  O -1 '-*  ^  d  d  7i  ©  CO  «  to  to  to  ©  ©  CD  CO  t«  !:<.  00  ©  00  ©  ©  o  O  ^  r-i  *^  O 

^rHd©^  »0  ©  t-«  0»©^d©  ■*  »0  0«-^d©  •<itO©fc*00  ttOWdCO  «♦© 

r^  i"^  •H  ^^  »•*  •■■•                                                                     ^^  ^^  ••*  (B^  vb4 

^* 

•©  O  ©©©>«  k«  ^  t^  r-4  ©  d  ©  d  ©©  0>  ©©©©<«  O  <«  O  ^  ^  to  ^  «0  O 

Jo  rx  r-i  d  d  ©  ©  •« '^  to  to  ©  ©  t^t^oo  OD  ©  ©  ©  o  >-4  >-^  d  d  CO  eo  ^  ^  to  o 
pj©©©©oo©o©oeoo©©oo©o©o©oo©ooooo«-i 

UVQ 

^««*««t— co-««25«2»:»2g-gg;5S§U»»g- 

Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOXBRY. 


5ir 


2     a  ej 


^000"*000^000"*000'*000'«*'QOO^OOOHtflOO^OOO**COO 
iOOO*OOOkOOOOOO>000*000*00  0*000>000*000 

OOrH'^rHC4C9C<ICOCOeO<«<«<«tO^  iO  «0  O  O  t-l>t-00  00  00  Oi  Oi  0>  O 


If 

&^ 


1.5 


^a»'«cQQOC9F4co«-40^e>^floaoe4^<o^o^aa'^GOooc4i-HcDF^o 

r-Hi-^f-4  ,-(««Hi-H  ^^i*,^ 

OOP  ^^^cfjcuoaoo  CO  CO  ooj*  -*  •*  "O  »Otf?<o<o<o<ot>-t>t^ooooaoo> 

CO  «  0»  i-i"*r»0»-^  ^o6i-»  0«  CO  GDO  «0"«  d  O  ^  t«  ^  r-i-^Ub^-WiOOOO 

•4taoait^*oo»eod«o0^eofc«>^0'^aoc4riaooooo)<DO<4«eot>^o 
o  oo  I-*  fi  r-i  p-4  c<io<e<i?<co'Oeo^-^-^^toio>qiO<o<o<o<ot>fr*t^oo 

00  «0  0<  ^'OO  "V  •^^O  l^i#^O<0C0O00»r5C«r-i00^»-O»>^O»CD00O 
CO  l>  »-*<*««  O  CO  i-n  «0  O  N '^  ^  00  rHO  00  to  O  "<H  O*  lO  Oi  «  1-1 -*  00  «  O 
OpOO>-'-^-<-*<y>g>«g>COCO<OC9CO-^-^-^^iOiO«0  0<OCD<D<Ot^ 

9O<oo»c4co«oo»oe)Ooo<0O)o<)Oco«oa»ciocoosac9OcocoAe«o 

*-•  rH  rH  «^  ,^1-^ 

oooo»-H  —  >-«t-ii'WCi|<Noc<c<cococoeoco-if"^-^-»-»«o*oo«o»a<o 


is 


•->«oa»aOajt^<Ofl0^^oOo)i^oOi->o  O)aooot<*<&*o<^«oo2>«^coo' 
o)ioooi-4-^r-4'^fr«ocooco<oo»0t-«pH'^c^ocoo«o<oa&c«ioe«>oco 

00-«000'^^aO'«000^000<4«OaO^OOC;^  O  OD  -^"O  aO>^  O  00  ^  o 

'N«oaooeooM»oaoooooe4«oaoo«90C9*ooooeooci«oaooeoo 

^0000^*7rHr^>-Ni-i  M  «  e>>C^CHe<0OCO<O0O<OflO'^-^'»^-^^»Oi 

^e«aaQ«'^OeQioooocft>o^'^cDOOr-ieooo«^t«afte«<«oeoiooo 

gOQOOO-**-^  -H  ^.-H.-M^C<C^Ci|C<C<C<COcOCOOOCOCOCO^<»^^ 


^     ^'  «  ■4*  <0  00 


o  ©»  •*  r-i  w  «  r*  e»  »-•  oo  o  « "^  «  00  o  « ;* »- flo  •©  i>  »  ^  00  o 
soooooo^i-^^H'^.'H.-i  — q<weoc*c<c<«<c<goo9cocooofoco'» 

^''■4>t«t0'4«0lO'-«0»a0<0^e0rHOO00t:^O<4*0(Of-40»00cD^e0--«O 
^  I-*  rH 

p^eo•o^«o»^cO'«oot-^«ooDOC4co•Of*lco»e^*aool-«oo)^ooo, 

»HpHr-*  piN  rH  rH  rH  ,-*  rH  ,M 

oooooooorH^,^^^— <p-,>^rHC<c*gto^c^e»wctcoco»3ooco 


^   a 


*^C0'*«0a0Or-lC^'*O»-^00"*«0Q0«^C«'*O»H00'*t000»»-C^"<HO 
*  dO  O-<^a0O^00O^00O'4t00O^Q0O'«vA>O'«i00  O  -^i  00  O  <4*  00  "5 

^  (M«9««oooaoe4eo'<f  OrHC4<«(io«ooAOC«eoi«<Ov<<0i'^^<oaD 

3OOOOOOOOOO«H»^»H^ri4r^^t-HrH^^rHC<CaC<C<C^0t0< 


^C^C*IOO<*«0«Or»000»00^0»-^0<0<eO'*»00  «o  IS-OO  »  o  O  ^  o 
rHr^rH  ,-i  ^^  rH 

>-«C«00^<0«OI>QOO)0>^0900-^O^CICO<^iO«Ot<«aOO»O^C«eO-«0 
,^^.^r^,^tm^  r^r^rHrH^H 

QOOQOOOOOOOOOO- 


CD>-Ht«C4C0040aeOO^O*Or-lO  OCOi-Ht«C^OOO)0>flOO-^OiOrH«0  0 

•-«  i-H  C4  €4  CO  eo -^t  ^  to  lo  c0  c9  c«oo  00  a>  a»  o  o  rH  >-4C4c*  CO  CO  ^^  too 


oo«oO'«^r«oe>iioaO'-'Mioaooeo«sOrH'«»<.0«-«tooo  ^O4<oe»o 

O  O  O  f4  (-H  rH  i-i  69  0)  Ot  C%  eO  oo  CO '^  <4>  ^  ^  lO  lO  le  to  <D  <0  «D  «D  £*!>•  E>  00 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOPOPOOOQ 


III 


E»ot>-ooo<*ot^o  jc<»or*ooC'i»oe>-oo<M  »o  t-ooci»oc^oo 
•^  rH  rH  ^H  rH  f^ 

OOOrHrHr-i*HrHO)e%e)09o«coooeoeoeo^^'«^'«f|«oio«oio*oco 
ooooooooeoeoooooooooooooooooo 


I  ^1 


©<00  •OOQOOrHrHO4<4««Dt^a)OOO4OO*O«0QOOrHi-HO«^<Ot^O»OO 
OOOOOOOFHrH^rHrHrHrHC4C4C<«C4C9C9C«C4COCOeOGOCOCOCO'^ 


8-<«a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


518 


INDIAN  DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

TABLES  OF  POSTAGE. 


TABLE  No.  1. 
Rales  of  Postage  on  Pre-paid  Inland  Letters, 


If  not  exceeding  in  weight 


One  quarter  Tolah, 
HalfaTolah,       -     -    * 
OneTolah,   -     -    -     - 
OneandahalfTolah,    - 

TwoTolalis,      -    ■     •     • 


Postage. 


Half  an  anna,  - 
One  anna,    - 
Two  annas,     - 
Three  annas, 
Four  I 


No.  of  Rates. 


One  rate. 
Two  rates. 
Fonr  rates. 
Six  rates. 
Eight  rates. 


For  every  tolah  iu  weight  above  two  tolahs^  two  addfi 
tional  annas,  and  every  fraction  of  a  tolah  above  two  to-^ 
lahs  shall  be  charged  as  one  additional  tolah.  (Section  VI^ 
Act  XVII.  of  1854.; 

A  Ship  Postage  of  one  anna  in  addition  to  the  above 
rates  is  leviable  on  delivery  on  all  Letters  received  by  Sea 
by  a  private  Ship.  Postage  at  double  the  rates  under  the 
above  Schedule  is  leviable  on  the  delivery  of  all  Letters 
posted  unpaid. 

TABLE  No.  2. 

Bales  oj  Postage  on  Newspapers,  Pamphlets  and  other  Printed  or  Engraoed 
Papers  and  Proof  Sheets,  sent  bjf  Letter  Mail.  (A  Sects.  VIL,  VIIL, 
IX.  and  X.) 


Newspapers,  Pamphlets,  &c., 
Peinted  in  India. 

Imported   Newspapers, 
Pamphlets,  &c. 

Not  exceeding  in 
weight. 

postage. 

Not  exceeding  in 
weight. 

Postage. 

Four  Tolahs,      -    - 
Six  Tolahs,      -     - 

One  anna. 
Two  annas. 

Six  Tolahs,    .    .    - 
Twelve  Tolahs,     - 

One  anna. 
Two  annas. 

Single  Postage  being  added  for  every  ad- 
ditional three  tolahs,  fractions  of  three 
tolahs  being  charged  as  three  tolahs. 

Single  Postage  being  added  for  every  ad- 
ditional  six  tolahs,  fractions  of  six  to- 
lahs being  charged  as  six  tdahs. 

Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY. 


519 


TABLE  No.  8. 
Haieg  of  Postage  <m  Banghy  Parcels. 


If  not  exceeding  in  weight. 

For  Distancss. 

20 

100 

200 

800 

400 

500 

600 

rolahs. 

TolahB. 

Tolahs. 

Tolahfl. 

Tolahs. 

Tolahs. 

Tolahs. 

Miles. 

B8.      A. 

RS.      A. 

R8.      A. 

RS.      A. 

RS.      A. 

RS.      A. 

RS.     A. 

Not  exceeding,  -    - 

100 

0        2 

0      4 

0    8 

0     12 

1         0 

1       4 

1       8 

Not  exceeding,    - 

80C 

0      6 

0    12 

1     8 

2      4 

3      0 

3    12 

4      8 

Not  exceeding,  -    • 

60C 

0    12 

1      8 

8    0 

4      8 

6      0 

7      8 

9      0 

Not  exceeding,    - 

90C 

1       2 

2      4 

4    8 

6    12 

9      0 

11       4 

13      8 

Not  exceeding,  -    - 

1,20( 

1       8 

3      0 

6    0 

9      0 

12      0 

15       0 

18      0 

Exceeding, 

1,200 

1     14 

3    12 

7    8 

11       4 

15      0 

18     12 

22      8 

Parcels  conveyed  bj  Sea  bj  the  East  India  Company's 
Post  are  subject  to  an  additional  charge  of  Ship  Postage  of 
eight  annas  for  every  hundred  tolahs,  fractions  of  hundred 
tolahs  being  charged  as  one  hundred  tolahs.  fA.  Sect.  XVII.) 
Not  more  than  one  Letter,  &c.,  may  be  enclosed  in  any 
Banghy  Parcel,  and  by  Section  XVI.,  where  Banghy  and 
Letter  mails  are  conveyed  in  the  same  carriage,  it  is  un- 
lawful to  enclose  even  one  Letter,  &c.,  in  a  Banghy  Parcel. 


TABLE  No.  4. 

Bales  of  Poslage  on  Books,  Pamphlets^  Packels  of  Newspapers  and  of 
Printed  and  Engraved  Papers  not  exceeding  120  tolahs  in  weight,  despatched 
hg  Banghg  Post  and  pre-paid.  (A.  Sect.  XII.) 


If  not  exceeding  in  weight. 

Book  Postage  in  India. 

Between  England  and 
India. 

Twenty  Tolahs,      -    .    -    - 
Forty  Tolahs, 

One  anna,  -    -    -    -    - 
Two  annas,  -    -    .    - 

Five  annas  and  a  half. 
Meyen  annas. 

Single  Postage  is  to  be  charged  for  every  additional  twenty  tolahs,  frac- 
tions   of  twenty  tolahs  being  charged  as  twenty  tolahs. 

Every  article  not  exceeding  twelve  tolahs  in  weight  will  be  conveyed  by 
Letter  Post,  unless  expressly  directed  to  be  sent  by   Banghy  Post, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


520  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  KCONOHY  AND   COOKERY. 

POSTAL  NOTICE. 


From  the  First  of  Septembke,  1858,  Pre-payment  of  Pos- 
tage on  Letters  posted  in  anj  part  of  India  for  the  Unit* 
ed  Kingdom,  whether  marked  '  via  Southampton/  or  'via 
Marseilles/  will  be  compulsory. 

W.  GEAT. 

Calcutta,   May  Z9tA,   1858. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTEE  XXXII 


MISCELLANEOUS  EECEIPTS. 

Soak  the  skin  in  water  for  one  daj, 
To  preierve  Skins  then  clean  it  well  of  fat ;  take  alum 
mti  tie  Hair  on.  three  pounds^  rock  salt  four  ounces^ 
and  dissolve  in  as  much  water  as  will 
cover  the  skin^  in  a  tub  or  vessel ;  then  boil  the  solution  and 
when  lukewarm,  put  in  the  skin  and  soak  it  for  four  day?^ 
working  it  well  with  the  feet  or  hands  several  times;  then 
take  it  out  and  dry  it  in  a  warm  place,  but  not  in  the  sun. 
Boil  up  the  water  again,  repeating  the  same  process  with 
the  skin;  then  wash  it  well  and  beat  it  with  a  wooden 
mallet  till  quite  soft,  after  which  dry  it  in  the  shade^  rub- 
bing it  between  the  hands  at  intervals.  £y  this  means  it 
will  be   as  soft   and   pliable  as   doeskin. 

The   management  of  a  lamp  is   not  very 
Careel  or  Argand    difficult,     and    common    care    and   atten- 
Lamps.  tion   by  the  servant  will  keep   it  in  order. 

In  the  first  place,  for  the  lamp  to  burn 
dear  and  steady,  the  oil  should  be  of  a  good  quality  (co- 
coanut  is  the  best,)  and  the  air*holea  in  the  rim  at  the 
bottom  must  be  freed  from  dirt  and  all  impurities,  so  that 
a  current  of  air  can  pass  through  the  centre  of  the  wick. 
Pour  out  the  remaining  oil,  and,  having  wiped  the  lamp 
carefully,  examine  that  all  the  parts  are  in  their  proper 
places,  and  by  turning  the  wick  up  and  down,  see  if  it  is 
sufficiently  long   to  last  the   time   required   for  its   burning; 

if  not,  replace  it  with   afresh  one;   then  recharge  the  lamp 

s2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


5M  INDIAN    D011ESTIC     ECONOMY 

with  oil  and  replace  the  chimney  and  shade^  when  it  is  fit 
for  nse.  Common  oil  is  sometimes  burnt  in  these  lamps, 
but  the  light  is  never  bright,  and  much  smoke  is  given 
out.  In  the  cold  weather,  cocoanot  oil  must  be  warmed 
previous  to  being  put  into  the  lamp ;  this  should  be  done 
as  short  a  time  before  lighting  as  convenient.  When 
necessary  to  wash  the  shade  and  bottoms,  use  lukewarm 
water  with  a  little  soapf  and  carefully  wipe  them  with  a 
soft  dry  towel.  With  the  suspension  lamp,  that  is  raised 
or  let  down  by  a  chain  and  pully,  be  guarded  in  holding 
the  bottom  firm  whilst  the  lamp  is  being  removed,  to  check 
its  suddenly  running  up  with  a  jerk  from  the  force  of  the 
balance  weight,  and  never  leave  the  bottom  and  globe  of 
the  empty  lamp  with  the  chain  drawn  dovm  to  its  full 
extent,  as  the  corresponding  weight  of  the  lamp,  to  the 
balance  weight  above,  being  wanting,  the  least  motion  will 
cause  the  lamp  so  suddenly  to  rise  as  to  throw  the  glass 
part  out  of  the  rim  and  break  the  whole.  Servants  should 
have  this  explained  to  them,  as  well  as  not  to  rub  off  the 
bronze  from  the  pedestal.  Wicks  can  easily  be  made 
from  the  upper  part  of  a  cotton  stocking,  should  the 
supply  run  short,  and  others  not  immediately  procura- 
ble. 


Cut    the    wick   as    even   as   you   can 
Directions  to  trim,    with    the    top  of   the  inner    tube,   but 
light,  and  manage    do  not  cut   all  the   black   part    off,   as 
Clarice  Diamond    this    wastes  the    wick    and    makes    it 
Carcel  Lamp.         more    difficult     to    re*light.--The    wick 
is   put   on   with  a   cotton-stick    like  all 
ordinary  lamps. — !Fill  the  lamp   every   time  it  is  bumt^    as 
the  wick  should  be  well    saturated. — Light    the  lamp   with 
a  lucifer  or  splint  of  wood. — Do  not  put  the  chimney   on 
till  the  wick   is   lighted  all    round. — The  wick  bolder   can- 
not be  improperly  fixed,   as  there  is  only  one  way  of  doing 
it.— The  small    cup  that   is  screwed   on    at    the  bottom  of 
the   burner   catches    the    overflow.    The    lamp    should     not 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   cboKSEY.  5S3 

be   cleaned    for    yeurs^    and  without  occasioning    trouble^  it 
will  barn  incessantly  a  beautifal  light. 

Soak  isingkss  in  water  until  it  is  soft,  then 
Armenian  dissolve  it  in  rectified  spirit ;  in  two  ounces  of 
CetnerU*  this  dissolve  gum  galbanum,  or  gum  anuno- 
niac»  of  either,  grains  ten  ;  add  five  or  six  large 
tears  of  mastich,  reduced  to  a  liquid  state  bj  rectified 
spirit.  The  cement  must  be  kept  closely  stopped,  and, 
when  wanted  for  use,  melted  by  putting  the  bottle  in 
some  warm  water.  Used  for  broken  glass  and  china, 
and  resists   moisture  very  well. 

For  broken     ghiss,    china,     or    stone    ware. 

Ckina  Ce-    Beat  a  small    quantity  of  quick  lime    into  the 

ment.  finest    powder,   sift  it  through   a  muslin  cloth, 

and    having    smeared  the    parts    to  be    joined 

with   white  of  egg,  dust  the    powder  over    this    and  unite 

the    edges. 

Take  very  fine  white  lead  paint,  unite  the  brok- 
Another     en  particles    with   this,  and  keep    them  in  their 
Cement,    position  with  slips  of  adhesive  plaster  spread  on 
cloth ;    when  the  paint  is  perfectly  dry,  the  unit- 
ed  parts  will   be  found  as  strong  as  ever,  and  the  slips  of 
plaster  may  be  removed. 

Take  two  quarts  of  tar  with  two  ounces 
WUion's  Ce-  of  grease,  boil  these  in  an  iron  vessel  for 
^mentfor  a  quarter  of  an  hour  ;   prepare  some  slacked 

eiane^  ^c.  lime    and  finely  pounded   gbiss ;  pass  each 

separately  through  a  fine  sieve  and  mix  in 
the  proportion  of  two  parts  of  lime  to  one  of  glass ;  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  the  boiled  tar  is  now  to  be  added  to 
this  aiixture,  to  render  it  of  the  consistency  of  thin  plas- 
ter ;  small  quantities  only  of  this  cement  should  be  mixed 
at  a  time,   as  the  cement    hardens  so  speedily    that  it  is 


Digitized  by 


Google 


5S4  INDUN   DCnCESTlC  ECONOMY 

too    hard    for  use.    This    compoation  has    the   qaatity     of 
being  imperviable  to    iret  or  dampness  of  any  kind. 

Take    two    pounds    cf-  bees'   wax    and 

Aiioiker^for  Ala-    one  of  gum  resin,    melt    them  together ; 

basteTy  Marble^      then  strew  in  a  pound   and  a  half  of  the 

Potphyrgy  8fc*       substance  to     be  joined,    reduced   to     an 

impalpable  powder  ;  mix  and  stir  the  mass 

well  together  ;   as  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough,  it   most    be 

well  kneaded    and   worked  in   water,  so   that  the  whole  of 

the     ingredients    may     be    well  incorporated.    When     the 

cement  is  to  be  applied  it  must   be   heated,  as  must  also 

the  edges   or  sides   of  the     material    to  be   joined,     which 

likewise   must   be  perfectly  dry. 

Where  the  cracks  are  not  too  wide  and 
Cracks  in  Chu-  deep,  they  are  better  filled  up  with  dam- 
n€m  Ro<^8.  mer  than  chunam,  as  the  last  continually 
separates  as  it  dries  ;  whereas  dammer,  if 
not  made  brittle,  and  poured  along  the  openings  hot,  will 
last  for  yearsy  and  the  roof  remain  waterproof.  It  is  made 
of  Sail,  a  gum  resin  dissolved  in  a  sufiicient  quantity  of 
common  oil ;  a  small  portion  of  tar  or  wax  may  be  added, 
to  keep  the  dammei  rather  soft  than  otherwise,  as  it  ad- 
heres to   the   chunam   better ;     in   the   rains   it   is  hard. 

Put  the  ingredients  into  an  iron  or  copper  vessel  (an 
earthen  one  is  dangerous)  over  a  fire,  and  stir  it  until  the 
resin  is  dissolved.  This  must  be  done  in  the  open  air,  in 
case  of  boiling  over  or  taking  fire.  Then  fill  tlie  cracks 
with  this  liquid,  and  the  work  la  finished.  This  dammer, 
when  made  without  the  tar,  may  be  used  for  covering  the 
corks  of  bottled    ale,  &c. 

Four  ounces   of  lamp    blaek,    two  ounces     of 
JBlacHnff.     treacle  or  jaggery,  a  tea-spoonful  of  diluted    vi- 
triol, half  an  ounce  of  sweet  oil,   a    wineglass  of 
vinegar,  and   a  pint   of  beer  or    water  ;  mix  the   oil     and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKSRY.  525 

treacle  and  laiup   black  togeiher  so   as  to  form   a  paste^  and 
add  the  vitriol^  then  by  degrees    the   megar   and  water. 

Take  two  quarts  of  stale  beer^  half  a  pound 
Another.  of  ivory  black,  three  ounces  of  treacle,  half  an 
ounce  of  gum  arable,  one  ounce  of  sweet  oil,  one 
ounce  of  brown  sugar-candy,  and  half  an  ounce  of  diluted 
sulphuric  acid;  mix  up  the  oil  with  the  ivory  black  and 
treacle,  warm  the  beer,  in  which  dissolve  the  gum  and 
sugar-candy;  stir  up  all  together,  and  finally  throw  in  the 
diluted  sulphuric  acid,  which  will  produce  a  fermentation 
and  cause  an   amalgamation  of  the   whole. 

Four   ounces  of  clear  glue,   logwood  chips 

Jet  Polish  for       half    a    pound,     finely    powdered  indigo    a 

BooU^  Shoes,    quarter   of  an  ounce,  the  same  of  soft  soap 

or  Harness.       and  isinglass.    Boil    these    ingredients  with 

a  quart  of  vinegar  and  one   pint  of  water 

for  ten  minutes    after    the    ebullition    begins  ;    then    strain 

the   liquid  when  cold,  and  it  is  fit   for  use  ;   remove  all  dirt 

from  the    boots    or    leather^  and    lay  on    the  jet    with   a 

sponge  or  rag. 

Bectified  spirits  of  wine  one  quart,  seed 
French  Polish,  lac  two  ounces,  shell  lac  one  ounce,  gum 
sandarach  one  ounce,  gum  copal  and  cam- 
phor of  each  one  ounce  ;  pound  the  gums,  and  put  the 
whole  into  a  stone  bottle;  cork  it  securely,  and  place  the 
bottle  in  hot  water,  shaking  it  often  till  all  be  dissolved. 
A  very  small  quantity  is  to  be  applied  at  a  time,  and 
only  a  small  surface  covered  with  the  liquid,  and  that  is 
rubbed  off  immediately ;  a  little  more  is  then  applied,  which 
is  also  rubbed  off,  and  this  is  repeated  till  the  desired 
poliah  is  attained,*  the  rest  of  the  table  or  other  furniture 
is  treated  in  the  same  manner,  till  the  whole  surface  is 
polished. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


5S6  INDIAN  DOMESTIC    BCONOMY. 

Onte  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of   white 
toliskfdr  Fur-       8oap»    put  it    into  a  new  earthen    veaael 
nikare.  with  a  pint  of  water,    hold  it  over  the 

fire  till  the  soap  is  dissolved,  then  add 
three  ounces  of  bees'  wax  and  half  an  ounce  of  white  wax, 
cut  into  small  pieces ;  as  soon  as  the  whole  is  incorporated 
it  is  fit  for  use.  When  used,  clean  the  furniture  well, 
dip  a  bit  of  flannel  in  the  varnish  when  warm,  and  rub 
it  on  the  furniture;  let  it  stand  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
then  applj  a  hard  brush  in  all  directions,  and  finish  with 
a  bit  of  clean  dry   flannel  or  coarse  woollen  cloth. 

Take    fuller's    earth  or     prepared  chalk. 
To  clean  China    reduce  it   to   an   impalpable  powder,   then 
and  Glass.         form  it  into  a  thin  paste  with  water ;  ap- 
ply it  to    the  glass    or   china  with  a  soft 
cloth,  let  it  dry,   and  then  rub   it  off. 

Wash  your  casks  with  water  till  all 
To  clean  Casks,  the  impurities  are  removed ;  for  each 
pipe  take  one  pound  of  chloride  of  lime 
with  fifteen  quarts  of  water ;  throw  the  whole  into  the 
cask,  and  shake  it  so  as  to  affect  every  part,  then  wash 
it  out  several  times  with  fresh  water.  The  smell  of  the 
chloride  of  lime  will  pass  off  in   a  few  hours. 

The  most  effectual  way  to  sweeten  a  tainted  cask,  is  to 
have  the  hoops  removed  before  cleaning  it,    by  a  cooper. 

To  two  ounces  of   yellow  bees'    wax  put 
Oerman  Polish,    half  an  ounce    of    black  resin,   melt   it  in 
an     earthen  pipkin,  and    add    by     degrees 
one  ounce  of  spirits  of  turpentine. 

Cover    the  steel  well    with  sweet   oil,    and 
To  take  Bust     let  it  remain  for  a  couple  of  days,  then  oae 
out  of  SteeL  unshcked  lime  finely  powdered,  and  mb    with 
it  until   all  the  rust   disappears. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AXO   COOKERY.  627 

Wash   the    spot   with    diluted    sulphuric 

To  remove  Ink    acid    or  muriatic    acid  with    a  feather^    do 

or  Stains  from  not  let  it   remain    long,    or    it  will    leave 

Tables.  a   mark ;   rub  it  quick  with  a  piece  of  rag, 

and,    when  the    stain  is  removed,   drop     a 

little  sweet  oil  on   the  part    and  give  it   a    polish. 

Everj  article  of    this  description,   whether 
To  clean  Dish    of  block   tin,  or  queen's  metal,  should    first 
Covers,  be    washed    and    dried,    then    rubbed    with 

pounded  whiting  or  fine  chalk  mixed  with 
a  little  oil;  after  which,  wipe  it  clean,  and  dust  some  of 
the  dry  powder  in  H  muslin  bag  over  it,  and  polish  with 
a  dry  soft    cloth  or  leather. 

The  best  material  for  cleaning  plate  is 
To  clean  Plate,  finely  powdered  whiting  or  prepared  chalk. 
The  plate  should  be  constantly  washed  with 
soap  and  water,  or  occasionally  boiled  in  water  in  which 
brown  soap  has  been  dissolved;  then  wipe  it  clean  with 
a  cloth  ;  a  brush  may  sometimes  be  required  to  remove 
any  tarnish  between  the  fluting  or  crevices,  and  if  any  dark 
spots  remain,  smear  them  with  a  little  pounded  whiting 
mixed  with  spirits  of  wine,  gin,  or  terpentine ;  let  it  dry, 
and  then  brush  it  well  ofiT,  after  which  polish  with  a  soft 
dry  leather.  Plate  that  has  long  lain  by,  if  treated  in  this 
manner,  will  resume  its  original  polish  immediately,  and 
always  after  being  used  should  be  washed  clean,  then  rub- 
bed with  a  soft  leather,  and  a  little  of  the  powder  whiting 
or  chalk. 

Mix  with  two  ounces  of  rectified  spirits 
Scouring  Drops ^  of  turpentine,  two  drachms  of  either  of 
the  following  essential  oils — cloves,  cin- 
namon, or  lemon ;  rub  a  little  on  stains  of  silk,  woollen 
stnfb,  or  linen,  with  a  bit  of  soft  cloth  or  old  cambric;  it 
will  also  remove  the  stains  of  paint,  pitch,  or  oil,  without 
taking  out  the  colours. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


528  INDIAN    DOMESTIC  KCONOMY 

Frequent     airing    is     indispensable;   there- 

To  preserve      fore   shake    and     place  them    out   occasionally 

Woollen  in    the     sun,   then    brush   them    well    before 

CloiAs  from     either   laying    in   the   drawer    or   chest ;    fold 

Insects.  amongst     them    dried     Neem    leaves,    pepper 

corns.    Butch,    camphor    in    small    bags,    or 

bitter   apple.     Furs  should  have   pounded   black   pepper  well 

dusted   amongst  them. 

Hold    the     part    firmly,     to    prevent     the 

To  efface  silk    from   being  creased ;  then   with  a   clean 

Spots  of  soft  white    cloth   or   an    old  cambric  pocket 

Grease  from      handkerchief  rub  the    spot  very  briskly,   but 

Silks,  not    with  sufficient    violence  to  fray  the   silks  \ 

change    the     portions     of    the    handkerchief 

frequently;   in   a  course  of  a   minute   or   two  the  spot    will 

entirely   disappear. 

The  stains  may  be  instantaneously  and 
To  remove  entirely  removed  by  laying  over  them  a 
WaxStams  fold  or  two  of  dry  blotting  paper,  and  ap- 
from  Clot  A.  plying  for  a  moment  the  pressure  of  a  mo- 
derately  hot  iron;  or  hold  a  hot  iron  or 
poker  within  an  inch  or  so  of  the  cloth,  and  the  wax  will 
immediately  be  attracted  to  it,  then  rub  the  spot 
with  a  piece  of  cloth  or  brown  paper,  to  remove  any  mark 
that    may    remain. 

Knead  a  small  mass  of  dough  under- 
Dr.  Traill's  neath  a  little  stream  of  water  for  some 
Indelible  and  time,  until  it  has  parted  with  all  the  starch 
unchangeable  it  contains,  and  only  a  sticky  mass  remains 
InL  in  the    hands.    The    more  carefully  this  is 

done  the  more  pure  the  gluten  will  be. 
To  ten  parts  of  pyroligneous  acid,  add  half  a  part  of  glut- 
ten,  put  the  whole  into  a  covered  vessel,  and  submit  it 
to  a  gentle  heat  for  twenty -four  hours,  when  a  solution 
of  the    gluten  will    be  effected,   and    a    saponaceous    fluid 


Digitized  by 


Google 


A.ND  COOUERY.  529 

remains.  Procure  some  of  the  finest  lamp  blacky  and  to 
every  twelve  grains  add  one  ounce  of  the  fluid,  rubbing 
it  quite  smooth  in  a  pestle  and  mortar,  the  addition  of  a 
little  bruised  allspice,  doves,  or  cinnamon  gives  the  liquid 
an  agreeable  aroma.  This  ink  if  exposed  to  the  sun  and 
air  only  becomes  of  a   more  intense   black. 

Lunar  caustic  two    drachms,   distilled  Op 

MarJnng    Ink.     rain  water   six    drachms,    gum    water    two 

drachms;   wet    the  linen  where  you    intend 

to  write  with  liquid  pounce,  dry  it,  and  write  upon  it  with 

a  clean   pen. 

Subcarbonate    of   soda     one     ounce ,  water    a 

lAqwd      pint,   colour  with  a  little  sap   green  or  gamboge, 

bounce.  If  potash  is   used    instead    of  soda  the  ink  will 
spread.                             , 

Wet  a  spot  with  the  pounce  large  enough  for 

Method   of         the  name  or  initials ;   set  it  to  dry,  either  by 

wing  the  fire  or    in  the  sun ;  when  it  feels  stiffs 

bounce     and      rub   it  well  with  the    smooth  handle  of  a 

the  InL  knife   or   the   stopper  of  a  bottle ;  shake  the 

ink,   and,  as   the  articles    are    marked,    lay 

them    in  the  sun  to     dry,    taking  care    that    the     writing 

does  not   touch   any   other  part  of   the    clothe  otherwise  it 

will  stain  it  indelibly. 

The    acrid   juice  between   the    outer     and 
Native  inner    shell    of  the    cashue    nut,   if    written 

Marking  Ink.  with    on    linen,    stains    it    a    dark     brown ; 
so  will  the  milky  juice   from   the    tree. 

The  natives  also  use  the  juice    of  the  marking  nut  (the 

Betarvine ;)   the  part  of  the  cloth  to  be  written  on   is  first 

covered  with    rather  a  thick    paste    of    chunam,    and  then 

rubbed     off,    after    which    the    juice  contained  in  the    cells 

of    the  ntit  is  used  as  ink. 

t2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


680  nvDiAN  Doiosnc  economy 

A   clean     solution  of    isinglass    in  -  water,  or 
Varnishing  the  white    of  an  egg  well  beaten  np^  will  an- 
Pencil      swer  the    purpose;   but   great  care    is  requisite 
JDrawinffi,  when  laving  it   on. 

Linseed     oil    three    pints,     beeswax     twelve 
For  PreserV'  ounces,    pounded   rosin    four    ounces,  fir  rosin 
ing Leather,  two    ounces;     melt,     add    neatVfoot  oil   two 
pints,  and  oil  of  turpentine   one. 

Oil  of  linseed  one  pound,  yellow  wax  and  com- 
Another.   mon  turpentine  each  two  ounces,   Burgundy  pitch 
one  ounce;  melt   in  an    earthen   vessel. 

Oil  of    linseed  one    pound,    suet  ^ght  ounces. 
Another,  yellow  wax    six     ounces,   yellow  rosin  one  ounce ; 
melt  in  an  earthen  vessel. 

Linseed  oil  is  to  be  preferred,  but  any  other 
Drying  Oil  vegetable  oil  will  answer.  To  every  quart  of 
/or  Paint,  oil,  add  half  an  ounce  of  pounded  vitrified 
Sf'c.  8^.  oxide  of  lead  (Moordar  sing) ;  boil  this  for 
a  short  time  and  let  it  stand  to  cool  and  settle  ; 
then  strain  it  off  from  the  sediment  at  the  bottom,  which 
is  composed  of  the  fatty  part  of  the  oil ;  when  quite  clear 
it  is  fit  for  use,  either  to  mix  with  paint  or  other  purposes. 
This  paint  will  dry  in  twenty-four  hours.  The  oil,  if  put 
on  cloth  of  a  close  texture,  will  render  it  nearly  water- 
proof; added  to  pounded  chalk  or  whiting,  it  makes  ex- 
cellent putty  for  windows,  &c.;  if  mixed  with  mutton 
Buet  and  a  little  wax  (melted  over  a  fire)  to  the  consistence 
of  thick  cream,  it  will  be  found  a  most  excellent  compo- 
sition for  softening  leather,  and  preserving  it  against  heat 
and  rain. 

Take    beeswax,     turpentine,     and     Bar- 

Boot  and  Shoes,    gundy     pitch,   of  each  two    ounces ;   melt 

Waterproof.         these  in  a  pint  of  drying  linseed  oil,   and 

rub    the    leather    with    this    compo8ilion» 

in  the  sun  or    near  the  fire,   until  it  is  well  saturated. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AKD   COOKSRT.  631 

If  made  of  wool  or  cotton^  should  never  be 
Carpets,  laid  down  on  a  floor  without  a  coarse  cloth  un- 
derneathy  that  has  been  well  soaked  in  a  solu- 
tion of  corrosive  sublimate;  the  quantity  of  water  to  one 
pound  is  about  three  gallons.  White  ants,  which  are  so 
destructive  to  carpets,  will  seldom  go  near  this,  or  cloth 
dyed  with  indigo. 

Oil  floor  cloth,  if  laid  on  a  chunam  or  stone  floor  the 
least  damp,  soon  decays,  unless  a  matting  or  other  sub- 
stance is  placed  beneath  it.  To  clean, — scrub  with  a  brush, 
soap,  and  water. 

A  strong  glue,  for  veneer  work  or  other  pur- 
Glue.  poses,  is  made  by  dissolving  isinglass  in  spirits 
of  wine  or  brandy,  in  the  proportion  of  an  ounce 
to  a  pint  of  spirit.  The  isinglass  must  be  chopped  up 
very  fine,  put  into  a  bottle  with  the  spirits,  and  dissolved 
in  boiling  water  over  the  fire;  when  required  at  any  time, 
a  moderate  heat  will  liquify  it  and  render  it  transparent. 

First  take  care  that  your  bottles  are  all 
To  hoUle  Beer*  well  washed,  cleaned,  and  dried  on  a  rack, 
the  cork  good  and  in  proper  order,  (all 
worm-eaten  ones,  decayed  or  knotty,  must  be  rejected), 
wash  them  well  in  lukewarm  water,  then  put  them  into 
fresh,  and  they  are  fit  for  use;  be  careful  that  they  are  of 
the  proper  size.  The  cask  of  beer  having  been  put  on  a 
stand,  with  a  slight  tilt  forwards,  and  had  time  allowed 
to  settle  (a  few  days  is  quite  sufficient,)  introduce  the 
tap  at  the  bottom,  which  has  been  previously  bored  and 
stopped  with  a  cork ;  then  with  a  gimblet  make  a  hole 
in  any  part  of  the  cask  near  the  bung,  and  stop  it  up 
with  a  wooden  peg,  that  can*  be  moved  at  pleasure,  for 
admitting  air  into  the  cask,  and  facilitating  its  passing 
through  the  tap.  All  being  ready,  draw  off  a  little  first 
into  a  jug,  and  in  this  dip  the  ends  of  each  cork  as  your 
bottles  are  filled^  previous  to  corking  them ;  when  the  whole  is 


Digitized  by 


Google 


63JS  INDIAN    DOMEjmC   BCONOMr 

finished,  tie  the  corks  down  with  stringi  and  dip  the  top 
into  prepared  boiling  dammer  or  fine  chunam  this  is  done 
with  the  view  of  securing  them  from  ants  and  other 
destructive  insects.  The  beer  will  be  fit  to  drink  in  three 
or  four  months*  To  a  mess,  or  private  family  where  there 
is  a  great  consumption  of  this  article^  the  bottling  of  beer 
at  home  will  always  be  found  a  considerable  saving;  for 
beer,  that  has  to  be  sent  in  bottles  from  the  presidencies, 
generally  costs,  if  the  distance  is  above  two  hundred  miles, 
from  seven  to  eight  rupees  a  dozen  to  the  consumer, 
whereas,  if  purchased  in  cask  and  bottled  at  home,  as  here 
directed,  it  may  be  drank  at  one-half  the  price.  The  bot- 
tles are  to  be  had  at  most  out-stations  for  little  or 
nothing ;  at  the  presidency  they  cost  from  one  rupee  eight 
annas  to  two  rupees  the  dozen.  The  best  time  for  bot- 
tling beer  is  after  the  rains,  and  during  the  cold  season. 
In   the  latter,  it  takes  a  longer  time  to  ripen. 

After    having    discovered    the    aperture    of 
Ants,  red  or     their  nests,  surround  the  hole   with  wet    day, 
blctci,  to       formed  into   the  shape  of  a  funnel,  and  pour 
destroy.        in  boiling  water. 

Where  they  are  in  the  habit  of  infesting  a  floor  or 
room,  lay  down  thin  slices  of  raw  meat~  or  liver,  upon 
which  the  ants  will  soon  congregate ;  let  a  person  go  about 
with  hot  water  in  a  basin  and  throw  in  the  meat  as  it  is 
covered,  then  shake  it  dry,  and  put  it  down  again  to 
collect  more. 

To  prevent  ants  getting  on  a  table,  teapoy,  bed,  &c.f 
tie  round  the  lower  end  of  the  leg  or  post  a  thin  slip 
of  flannel  dipped  in  castor  oil;  they  will  not  pass  over 
this ;  or  place  the  legs  in  pans  surrounded  with  water. 

Are  the  most  destructive  of  all   the  insect 
WAite  anti     tribe  infesting  a  house,    destroying  the  thick- 
est   rafters,    furniture,   books,  papers^  doths, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


\ 


AND   COOKERY.  533 


is  of  all  description,  which  they  perforate  through 
jugh.  At  the  commencement  of  the  rains>  they 
cheir  reptile  state,  and  become  a  winged  insect,  and 
.dke  their  appearance  a  little  after  dusk,  When  they  are  very 
troublesome,  covering  everything  with  their  wings,  which 
fall  off  and  leave  their  bodies  without  the  power  of  mov- 
ing. A  light  in  the  room  attracts  them,  and  if  they 
cannot  be  shut  out^  the  best  way  of  decoying  them  from 
table  is^  to  have  the  lights  removed  to  one  side  at  a  dis- 
tance^ and  place  near  it  a  basin  of  water,  in  which  most 
wiU  be  taken.  Poultry  are  very  fond  of  them,  and  in  some 
parts  of  the  Coast,  Mysore  and  the  Carnatic,  they  are  an 
article  of  food  tgnong  the  lower  castes,  and  sold  fried  in 
the  bazaars.  The  only  effectual  method  of  getting  rid  of 
a  nest  is  to  excavate  it,  and  destroy  the  queen  ant,  and 
unless  you  get  hold  of  her,  yon  may  continue  to  kill  the 
rest  by  myriads  daily  without  success.  She  is  known  from 
her  size,  being  from  two  to  three  inches  long,  and  pro- 
portionably  large. 

To  secure  boxes  from  their  depredations,  the  best  plan 
is  to  place  them  on  glass  bottles,  laid  lengthways,  and  if 
kept  free  from  dust  they  cannot  ascend.  They  have  a 
great  dislike  to  indigo,  and  will  seldom  touch  cloth  dyed 
in  it,  or  saturated  in  a  solution  of  corrosive  sublimate ; 
the  proportion  of  one  pound  to  four  gallons  of  water  is 
sufficient.  They  also  dislike  salt,  which  may  be  mixed 
up  with  the  mud  that  is  sometimes  spread  over  the  floor 
or  wall ;  though  this  is  not  an  effectual  remedy,  it  is  as 
well  occasionally  to  adopt  it. 

Wash  every  part,  crevice  or  comer. 
Bugs,  to  destroy*  where  they  can  be  secreted,  with  a 
strong  solution  of  alum  water,  boiling 
hot,  of  the  strength  of  as  much  pounded  alum  as  the 
water  will  dissolve ;  this  is  an  effectual  remedy.  Or  wash 
tvery  part  of  the    bedstead^    or  furniture^    with  a  strong 


Digitized  by 


Google      — 


684  INDIAN   OOHSSnC    SCONOMT 

solution  of  corrosive  sublimate^  or  dissolve  the  subllmato 
in  spirits  of  turpentine  with  the  addition  of  water.  It  is 
almost  impossible  to  prevent  these  insects  from  getting 
into  jour  beds  and  furniture  where  there  are  native  ser- 
vants in  attendance;  the  utmost  cleanliness  is  requisite, 
by  continually  taking  down  the  curtains,  removing  the 
bedsteads  out  in  the  sun,  and  pouring  boiling  water  all 
over  such  parts  that  the  insects   may  harbour   in* 

If  the  bugs  are  in  the  wall  of  the  house  or  anywhere 
else  about,  you  may  prevent  them  getting  up  the  posts 
of  the  bedstead  by  placing  each  leg  in  a  vessel  or  tin 
saucer,  filled  with  fine  wood  ashes  from  the  kitchen  ;  they 
will  not  pass  over  this;  and  for  children's  cots  nothing 
can  be  better.  It  is  preferable  to  water,  as  the  clothes 
from  the  bed  may  fall  into  it  and  get  wet;  besides  do- 
mestic animals  often  lap  the  water,  and  servants  forget 
to  see  that  the  pan  is'  filled  again.  JSTever  allow  the 
dhobees  to  lay  out  the  clothes,  when  they  bring  them 
home  from  the  wash,  on  the  bed,  as  they  may  have 
some  of  these  insects   amongst  them. 

Cork   cut  into   thin    slices    and     fried 
Hats,  to  destroy*    in   fat,   and  theii   placed  where    they  are 
in  the  habit  of    frequenting,    will  greedi- 
ly be  devoured  by   them    and   cause   their  death. 

Unslacked  lime  in  powder,  if  placed  around  their  holes, 
will  also  destroy  them,  by  sticking  to  their  feet,  which 
they  lick  off  and   die. 

Field  rats  may  be  destroyed  by  having  dried  chillies 
mixed  with  hay  put  into  a  common  chatty,  in  which  a 
hole  is  made  at  the  bottom;  then  light  the  grass  or 
hay,  and  turn  the  mouth  close  over  the  rat  hole ;  a  per- 
son then  blows  through  the  hole  in  the  chatty,  which 
drives  the  smoke  into  their  boroughs  and  suffocates  them. 
Previous    to    doing    this    all    means  of   egress    by     other 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKXET.  835 

boles  mast  be     stopped  up^   or  else    chatties  similarly  pre* 
pared  applied  to    them   at  the  same    time. 

Arsenic  and  coarse  meal  flour,  mixed  in  the  propor- 
tion of  three  or  four  grains  to  an  ounce  of  meal,  will 
greedily  be  devoured  by  them ;  but  it  is  necessary  to 
feed  them  two  or  three  times  with  plain  ineal  first.  Or 
else,  take  some  split  horse  gram  (chenna)  that  has  been 
soaked  in  water  and  become  soft,  sprinkle  a  little  sugar 
over  it  and  then  some  arsenic,  mix  it  well  together,  and 
place  it  for  the  rats ;  this  is  a  bait  they  will  seldom 
refuse,  especially  if  they  inhabit  the  stable  or  outhouses. 
Care  must  be  taken  that  it  is  never  placed  in  the  way 
of  poultry,  sheep,   or  goats^. 

The  vermin  may  be  easily  removed  by 
Ticli  on  Bogs,  rubbing  the  dog's  ears,  or  wherever  they 
have  fixed  themselves,  with  sweet  or  cas- 
tor oil.  Fleas  will  not  remain  on  dogs  or  animals  that 
have  powdered  butch  rubbed  over  them,  or  if  washed 
with  an  infusion  of  the  same ;  rubbing  them  with  train 
oil  is  also  an   effectual  remedy. 

May  be  removed  in  the  same  man- 
Ticks  on  Poidtry  ner ;  indeed  it  is  very  necessary,  if 
you  find  your  poultry  moping  about, 
to  have  them  examined,  and  see  if  these  vermm  are 
not  the  cause  ;  fowls  die  in  numbers  from  being  covered 
with  ticks.  Some  soil  is  particularly  favourable  to  them, 
and  you  can  only  preserve  your  poultry  by  removing 
them  away. 

'  Sprinkle  the  room  with  a  decoction 
Zlea8,io  destroy*    of  bitter    apple   or    wild   Indigo    leaves, 

fumigate  with  burnt  thyme  or  brim- 
stone^ and  have  the  rooms  continually  swept  and  cleaned. 
Pounded  butch,  or  an  infusion,  if  sprinkled  about,  is 
also  a  remedy,  and  may  be  applied  to  animals  infected 
with  them. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


536  INDIAK  BOMJSfnC  BCONOUY 

£oil    half  an    onnce  of  quassia    diips 
Fliea,  to  destroy,    in  a    quart    of     water^    and     sweeten    it 
well     with  sugar^   let  it  cool,    and  strain 
it ;  put  this  in  plates  or  saucers  about  the  room. 

Take   a  table-spoonful    of    finelj    ground 

To  drive fiies      black   pepper,  the    same  quantity  of    sugar 

frvm  a  room,    or    syrup,    mix    this  in     half  a  teacup     of 

milk ;  put    it  about  the  plates    or    saucezs 

where  the  flies  are  most    numerous. 

But  the  most  effectual  method  of  keeping  them  out  of 
the  house,  or  room,  is  to  have  checks  to  the  doors  and 
windows,  and  let  them  remain    down  during  the    day. 

These  little  insects  are  very  troublesome  to 
Eye  Flies,  persons  reading,  working,  &c.  Checks  to  the 
doors  and  windows  prevent  their  entrance  into 
a  room.  Curled  slips  of  paper,  or  cotton  thread  suspended 
to  the  wallshades,  wiU  attract  them,  where,  if  undisturbed 
they  remain.  It  is  said  that  they  have  a  great  aversion 
to  the  milk-hedge,  dlso  to  the  Gheegowar,  a  small  spotted 
green  and  white  aloe-looking  plant,  which,  if  hung  about 
the  room,  they  will  not  enter ;  this  practice  is  adopted  by 
the  natives. 

Soak  half  an  ounce  of  quince  seed 
Bandoline/or  (Behdana)  in  a  pint  of  hot  water  all 
the  Hair.  night ;  then  strain  through  muslin,  adding 
a  few  drops  of  essence  of  bitter  almonds^ 
or  any  other  scent ;  cork-  it  well,  for  if  left  exposed  to  the 
air  it  soon  spoils  ;  to  make  it  keep,  a  wineglass  of  spirits 
of  wine  should  be  added    after  straining. 

To  restore  hair  on  any  bald    surface    of  the 

Baldness,    head,  it  is  necessary  that  the  system  be   brought 

^  into   a   healthy  condition,    when  either    of  theso 

three    stimulating    applications    may    be   used,     with     every 

probable  chance  of  success. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  537 

No.  1. — Make  a  pomatum  of  hog's-lard,  blending  with 
it  as  much  tincture  of  cantharide8>  of  treble  the  usual 
strength,  as  it  will  take  up.  When  used,  it  should  be 
applied  twice  a  day,  by  rubbing  it  on  the  bald  part  for 
five  or  six  minutes,  and  continued  even  after  the  head 
becomes   sore. 

No.  S. — Take  two  drachms  of  pounded  sulphate  of  cop- 
])er  (blue  vitriol)  and  dissolve  in  one  ounce  of  brandy,  or 
spirits  of  wine ;  rub  this  on  the  part  two  or  three  times 
a   day. 

No.  8. — ^Take  half  an  ounce  of  oil  of  cloves  or  cinna- 
mon, add  four  ounces  of  spirits  of  wine;  apply  this  to  the 
part;   or  all  over  the   head  if  the  hair  is   falling  off. 

A  strong  solution  of  cloves  may  be  made  by  first 
bruising  them  a  little;  then  put  them  into  a  stopper 
bottle,  and  cover  with  spirits  of  wine  or  French  brandy  ; 
place  this  out  in  the  sun  for  a  day  or  two;  strain,  and 
use   it. 

The    seed    of  the    Moringah    or    horse- 

Tojfromote  the      radish    tree,    when     ripe,     yields     an     oil 

growth  of  Hair,    equal    to    any    known    for    this     purpose, 

and   if  coloured  and  scented,  will  be  found 

to  compete  with  the  far-famed   Macassar. 

Shaving  the  head  strengthens  the  hair  and  causes  it  to 
grow  thicker,  and  even  sometimes  to  curl :  or  else  rub 
well  into  the  roots  of  the  hair 'freshly  expressed  almond 
or  cocoanut  oil,  scented  with  any  essence  that  may  be 
most    agreeable. 

To  wash  the  hair,  use  soft  soap  and  lukewarm  water 
with  ground  chennah  flour  (native  name  Basura) ;  the  hair 
is  first  to  be  washed  with  soap  and  water,  then  the  chennah 
flour,  made  into  a  thin  lather  or  paste  with  water  between 
the   palms  of  the  hands    and   rubbed    on  the    head,  after 

u  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


638  INDIAN   DOlfBSnC  ECONOMY 

which  it    mast  be    washed  off   with   fresh   water    and    the 
hair  well  dried. 

The  natives  use  the   Bitah  or  soapnut. 

Take  thirty  tolahs'  weight  of  Manjoo  Phul 
Jet  black  dye  (gall  nut),  fifteen  of  Huldah  (haU  hurroAJ  of 
for  the  hair,  the  small  description,  roast  each  separat-elj 
in  Tilly  oil  (gingilie)^  and  pound  it  very 
fine;  take  one  tolah  of  Pitkoree  (alum),  roast  it  on  an 
iron  pan,  and  add  to  it  one  tolah  of  Nowshagur  (tal 
ammoniacj,  mix  and  grind  both  with  one  maaha  of  Nulah 
Thothau  (verdigris),  and  two  tolahs  of  the  finest  copper 
filings  ;  mix  the  whole  well  together  and  make  into  a 
paste  with  aoonla  water,  (phyllanthus  emblica,)  which  ia 
prepared  by  soaking  the  fruit  in  hot  water  for  a  couple 
of  hours. 

Form  the  mass  into  large  sized  pastiles  or  balls,  and 
when  required  grind  up  one  with  some  aoonla  water  and 
apply  it  over  night  to   the  hair. 

Od«.— This  has  none  of  that  purple  tinge  peculiar  to 
other   native    dyes. 

Take  oil  of  almonds  two  ounces,  white 
Cold  Cream*  wax  and  spermaceti  *one  drachm,  and  melt 
in  any  clean  vessel,  and,  while  cooling,  mix 
in  by  degrees  two  ounces  of  rose  or  half*  an  ounce  of 
orange  flower  water.  Or,  take  three  ounces  of  oil  of 
almonds,  spermaceti  half  an  ounce,  white  wax  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce,  melt  these*  over  the  fire  and  pour  it  into  a 
warm  glass  or  marble  mortar,  and  mix  in  by  degrees  as 
much  orange  flower   or  rose   water  as  it  will   take   up. 

Take    prepared    kali    six    grains,    oil    of 

Milk  ofltoBes.      almonds  one     ounce,    essence     of  bergamot 

two    drachms,     rose    water     three    ounces, 

orange  flower    water   two    drachms^     mix    the    whole  well 

ogether. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


A21D   COOKSRY.  539 

Take  oil   of  almonds,  spermaceti,    white  wax 

lAp  Salve,    and     pounded      sugar-candy    equal    parts,    mix 

these   together   and   melt     over   a  slow  fire;    a 

little   powder  of  alkanet  root,   or  cochineal,   may  be  added 

to  colour  it. 

No.    1. — ^Take    common    close-grained     char- 
Tooti  coal,     pound    it     very    fine     and    sift    through 

Powder,    muslin;  add  a  little    salt.    Or,    roast  the  betel- 
nut  until  it   has  become    charcoal,    then   grind 
it  up  fine  and  add  some   salt.    This  is  a  great    favourite 
with  the    natives. 

No.  2. — ^Take  powdered  cascarilla  bark  one  ounce,  creaok 
of  tartar  half  an  ounce,  mix  both  well  together,  and  use 
as  any   other  dentifrice. 

Safflower     (washed)     two     drachms,     subcar- 

Pink  Dye       bonate  of  potash    eighteen     grains,,    spirits  of 

/or  silk        wine    three     tea-spoonfuls,     distilled     or    rain 

SteckingB.    water  four   table-spoonfuls ;   put  into  a  stopper 

bottle    and  digest  the   whole  for  four   or    six 

hours   in  the  sun;   then   add  distilled     vinegar,    or    lemon 

juice,   by  degrees,    until    reduced    to   a    fine     rose    colour. 

The   native  practice  is  to  use  a    little    red  cotton    in   the 

water,  after  they  are  washed    with  a  little  lime  juice. 

First  wash  the  stockings  in  soap  and 
To  wcLsh  Silk  water  to  remove  the  dirt ;  then  rinse  them 
Stockings,  in  dean  water,  and  wash  them  again  with 
soap;  make  a  soap  liquor  and  colour  with 
pink  dye  or  a  little  red  cotton  (be  careful  not  to  put  too 
much);  if  the  latter  is  used  add  a  little  lemon  juice  to 
fix  the  colour ;  lay  the  stockings  in  this ;  then  take  them 
out  and  wring  them,  and  set  them  to  dry ;  place  a  blanket  on 
the  table  and  lay  the  stockings  smooth  upon  it,  and  rub 
them  well  with  a  flannel  on  the  right  side  until  smooth 
and  shining. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


540  INDIAN    DOMESTIC   fiCONOMT 

Or  take  the  braised  capsules  which  cover  the  soapnnt, 
(native  name  Ritah,)  and  stir  them  in  hot  water  until  a 
sud  or  froth  is  formed;  wash  the  stockings  in  this  instead 
of  soap,  rinse  them  in  clear  water,  then  put  them  into 
the  colouring  liquid  and  treat  them  as  last  directed. 

Bruise  some  fiitah-nuts  and  soak  them 
To  wash  Silks  in  warm  water  to  soften,  then  rub  them 
or  Damask,  between  the  hands  until  a  lather  is  formed ; 
pour  the  froth  and  liquid  into  tepid  water 
and  wash  the  silk  in  it,  using  soap  to  any  part  that  is 
very  dirty ;  when  clean,  rinse  the  silk  in  some  weak  lime 
juice  and  water ;  take  it  out  and  wring  it  gently ;  then  hold 
it  at  each  end  and  swing  it  in  the  air  until  partially  dry ; 
lay  over  a  clothes  horse  a  table-cloth  or  sheet  and  place 
the  silk  upon  it,  then  rub  it  with  a  soft  cloth  or  towel 
gently    down  until  nearly  dry. 

'  Silk  stockings  or  gloves  may  be  cleaned  in  the  same 
way,  only  adding  a  little  colouring  dye  to  the  Ume  juice 
and  water.  Coloured  dresses,  furniture  chintz,  &c.,  should 
be  washed  in  cool  water  alone,  but  if  the  colour  is  likely 
to   fly,   a  Uttle  of  the  froth  of  the  soapnut  must  be  added. 

When  silk  stockings  are  new  and  not  to  be  coloured, 
a  Uttle  stone-blue  should  be  put  into  the  last  liquid,  and 
when  wrung  and  partially  dried,  they  must  be  stoved  with 
brimstone,  and  afterwards  dressed  upon  a  wooden  leg, 
(the  outside  of  each  stocking  being  face  to  face),  and  rubbed 
dry   with  a  piece   of  flannel. 

To  give  all  silks  after  washing  the  lustre  they  originally 
possessed,  they  should  be  bleached  by  exposure  to  the 
fumes  of  sulphur,  a  small  quantity  being  thrown  over  a 
dish  of  hot  charcoal  and  the  silk  exposed  to  the  fumes  in 
an  enclosed  place. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   GOOKBRY.  541 

Make    a    thin    lather    of    soap,    or    the 

To    fOiuk    Net,    £itah-uut>     and     boil    the     stockings     or 

Cotton   Stock-    gloves  in  it ;  then  take  them  out  and    rinse 

inff^iSfc.  in    cold    water;   let    them    once    more    be 

boiled  in  a  lather   and   rinse  them  again; 

by   this  means  all   injury  by   rubbing  is  avoided. 

Take     out   the     gathers    at   the   top   of 

To toMh Colored    the  sleeves    and    at    the    waist;  wash    the 

JUuslin  Dresses,  dress   in  the  usual  manner    in   cool  water 

with   soap,    or    a   lather    made    from     the 

Bitah-nut;  then  rinse  it,   and   roll  it  smoothly  in  a  sheet 

or  other    cloth,   and  set  it  to  dry. 

When  there  is  any  suspicion  regarding 
Bite  of  a  Dog*  the  dog,  the  removal  of  the  injured  part 
by  the  knife,  or  actual  cautery,  should  be 
immediately  resorted  to;  or  the  bitten  part  must  be  des- 
troyed to  the  bottom,  by  repeated  applications  of  caustic, 
and  then  the  wound  covered  with  a  poultice  and 
suffered  to  heal  by  granulation.  If  it  should  so  happen 
that  the  wound,  or  bitten  part,  is  so  situated  as  not  to 
admit  of  excision,  scarify  the  part,  and  bathe  it  with  a 
weak  solution  of  volatile  alkali,  in  the  proportion  of  one 
part  of  the  alkali,  to  four  of  water;  after  having  washed 
the  wound  for  some  considerable  time,  it  may  then  be 
touched  with  caustic.  If  after  the  accident  any  time  has 
elapsed,  the  wound  must  be  kept  open  for  two  or  three 
weeks,   or  even  longer. 

First  apply  a  ligature  or  bandage  tight- 
Site  of  aVenO'  ly,  a  few  inches  above  the  part  bitten,  and 
mous  Snake*  wind  it  round  the  limb  till  it  is  brought 
near  the  wound,  when,  either  suck  the  wound, 
or  apply  a  cupping  glass ;  cut  out  the  part  with  a  knife  or 
burn  it  with  a  hot  iron,  or  apply  lunar  caustic  or,  wash 
the  parts    bitten  with  eau-de-luce,    or  spirits  of  hartshorn; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


542  INDIAN    DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

at  the  same  time  give  the  patient  a  tea-^poonfol  of  spirits 
of  sal  volatile  or  half  a  tea-spoonfal  of  eaa-de-luce,  in  a 
claret  glass  of  water,  or  camphor  and  ammonia  with  ca- 
yenne pepper;  a  bottle  of  madeira  may  be  taken  in 
draughts  at  a  few  minutes  intervali  or  any  equally  large 
dose  of  strong  spirituous  or  fermented  liquor ;  keep  the 
patient  walking  about,  and  do  not  allow  him  to  lie  down 
to  sleep. 

Oi«. — ^Poisonous  snakes  have  conical  tubular  fangs,  but 
only  one  row  of  teeth  on  each  side  of  the  upper  jaw, 
while  the  innocent  tribe  have  hoo.  In  the  former  the 
scales  decrease  in  size  as  they  approach  the  head,  wkik 
the  reverse  is   the  case  in  the   latter. 

Apply    a     ligature    above    the    part,    if 

Slin^  of  a  Scor^    possible    making    a    strong    pressure     over 

jpion  or  bite  of   it   with  a  watch  key ;   or  cut  down  on   the 

a  Centipede.       spot;  and   apply  lime  juice   and  salt,  or   a 

warm    poultice  of    ipecacuanha    powder,    or 

the  root  of  the    thistle   ground  and    rubbed    into  a  paste 

and  smeared  over  the  .wound,    or  lint    dipped  in  hartshorn 

or  eau-de-luce,   and,  if  the  pain   still  continues,   a  glass  of 

brandy,    taken    occasionally,     will     relieve     it.    A    remedy 

lately    recommended    is,    to    drop     a  little    pounded    burnt 

alum   into   the  eye. 

First     examine     and    see    if    the     sting 

To   remoce  the    remains   in  the    wound,    if    so,    remove  it 

%t%ngofa  Wasp  with   a    lancet    or    needle,     then    wet    the 

or  Bee*  part  and  rub  a  piece   of  indigo  upon   it; 

this    will   relieve    the   pain   at    once.     Or, 

rub  one  drachm  of  pure  opium    with  one  ounce    of  sweet 

oil,  cover  a  bit  of  lint  with  this  and  lay   it  on  the  wound, 

repeating  it  occasionally. 

Or,    less    properly,   the    sting,    of  these 

Musquito  Bites,   gnats,    are    attended     with  a   high    degree 

of  itching  and  inflammation;  so    much  so. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKBET.  548 

that  persons  cannot  refrain  from  scratching,  by  the  constant 
repetition  of  which,  a  sore  is  produced,  particularly  with 
those  of  a  robust  and  full  habit. 

To  allay  the  itching,  in  the  first  instance,  wet  the  part 
either  with  eau-de-cologne,  sal  volatile,  lime  juice^  salt 
and  water,  or  a  solution  of  opium  and  water;  but  if  ulce- 
ration has  taken  place,  a  poultice  may  be  necessary;  or 
keep  the  sore  bathed  with  Qoulard  extract  sufficiently 
dilated,  in  the  proportion  of  a  tea-spoonful  to  a  pint 
of  water. 

Olive  oil  is  also  a  useful  external  application. 

Bladders  arising  from  bums  or  scalds 
BurM  and  Scalds,  must  never  be  cut  or  opened.  Tn  all 
accidents  of  this  nature,  it  is  necessary 
to  employ  an  immediate  remedy,  such  as  immersion  in 
cold  water ;  or  surround  the  parts  with  fine  cotton  and 
apply  a  bandage  over  the  whole ;  spirit  of  turpentine  is 
also  a  useful  remedy ;  the  sore  to  be  kept  constantly  wet 
by  soaking  lint  or  rag  in  it  and  applying  to  the  part ; 
this  is  an  effectual  remedy.  Or  take  equal  parts  of  lime 
water,  linseed,  olive,  or  c^tor  oil,  and  mix  together  ; 
smear  this  over  the  burn  or  scald,  applying  the  same 
frequently. 

Yellow  basilicon   one    ounce  and  a  half. 
Ointment  for        spirits  of    turpentine   three    ounces ;    mix 
dressiftg  Bruns.   and  dress  the    parts  occasionally. 

Take  fresh  burned  lime  eight  ounces;    pour 
Lime  Water,    upon   it   a  gallon    of  boiling  water;  cover  up 
close,  and,   when  cold,  keep  the   whole  in   a 
glass  bottle  ;  pour  it   off  dear  when  wanted. 

Chloride    of  lime    destroys  all    bad  smells; 
Smells,  bad,    four  ounces,  mixed  with  two  quarts  of  water, 
to  destroy,    and  sprinkled    about  or    even  allowed    to  re- 
main in  an  open  vessel,  will  remove  all  disa- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


544  INDIAN    DOMESTIC   SCONOMY 

greeable  smell  from  a  room  or  hoase.  Where  this  is  not 
procurable^  and  a  drain  or  any  chnnam  reservoir  has  become 
tainted^  sprinkle  over  it  a  little  fresh  lime  and  then  satu- 
rate it  with  water^  when  it  may  be  washed  off.  Vinegar 
sprinkled  over  lighted  charcoal  in  a  room^  is  also  a  great 
porifier. 

While  the  tumour  is  in  a  hard  state, 
Guinea  Worm,  apply  a  poultice  twice  a  day^  made  of  the 
pounded  leaves  of  the  prickly  pear,  until 
it  breaks^  and  the  head  of  the  worm  protrudes  so  far  ajs 
to  be  laid  hold  of  with  ease,  either  by  a  piece  of  cotton 
rolled  up  like  a  quill,  or  by  a  thin  bit  of  bamboo  with  a 
slit  in  it,  so  as  to  hold  the  end  fast;  this,  as  it  advances, 
is  to  be  daily  twisted  gently  round  until  the  whole  is  ex- 
tracted, and  which  will  be  greatly  facilitated  by  pouring 
cold  water  above  the  part;  whibt  the  worm  is  being  twist- 
ed no  force  is  to  be  used;  when  the  worm  can  be  drawn 
no  further,  apply  the  poultice  over  it  until  the  next  at- 
tempt at  removal  is  made. 

This  may  easily  be  prepared  at  home  and 
Castor  Oil.  will  be  found  equal  to  cold  drawn.  Clean  the 
nuts  free  from  all  husks,  then  bruise  them  in 
a  mortar  to  a  paste«  and  put  it  into  cold  water,  with  a 
proportionate  quantity  of  cocoanut  juice,  and  boil  till  the 
oil  is  extracted  ;  when  strain  through  a  fine  cloth  or  filter- 
ing   paper. 

Put  the  dubber,  or  vessel,  out  in  the  sun 
Cocoanut  OH      if  in  the  cold  whether,    and  throw  into  it  a 
to  Purify.       handful  of  coarse   pounded  salt;     let   it   re- 
main a  few   days,  and  pour  it  off    carefully 
without  mixing  the  sediment  at  the   bottom. 

For    a  full    grown    robust   man,  or    woman, 

Wallac^i     one  tea-spoonful  of  red    pepper,   one    tea-spoon- 

Cholera      ful  of  black,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  strong  decoction 

Mixture,   made  of  cloves,    cinpamon   and    cardamons;  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND     COOKK&Y.  545 

above  to  be  put  into  a  large-sized  claret  glass,  to  which  add 
sixty  drops  of  laudanum,  and  then  fill  the  glass  three  quarters 
up  with  brandy  or  arrack,  and  then  fill  up  the  glass  to  tb§ 
top  with  boiling  water,  to  which  add  some  grated  nutmeg. 
The  above  dose  to  be  divided  into  two  equal  parts  ;  one 
to  be  given,  and,  if  retained,  which  generally  it  will  be, 
no  more  need  be  given  ;  but  if  rejected,  the  rest  to  be 
given ;  should  this  likewise  be  vomited,  a  second  dose  to 
be  similarly  prepared  and  administered.  Hot  bricks  to 
be  applied  to  the  chest,  stomach,  arms,  legs  and  feet;  the 
patient  to  be  kept  as  warm  as  possible ;  the  following  morn- 
ing a  dose  of  castor  oil  to  be  given. 

To  a  person  between  twelve  and  twenty  years  of  age 
two-thirds  of  the  peppers,  laudanum  and  spirits  to  be  given, 
but  the  same  quantity  of  the  decoction,  the  glass  filled 
up  with  hot  water. 


To  children  between  three  and  twelve  years  of  age,  half  or 
quarter,  according  to  the  age  of  the  child,  of  the  peppers,  land- 
anum  and  spirits,  with  one  tea-spoonful  of  the  decoction,  the 
glass  as  before  to  be  ^led  up  with  hot  water ;  this  last  to 
be  divided  into  three  equal  parts,  and  administered  as  di- 
rected for  others. ' 


After  the  dose>  if  retained,  the  patient  will  complain  of 
excessive  thirst  and  a  burning  sensation  in  the  intestines, 
this  is  alniost  a  certain  indication  of  recovery ;  but  nothing 
whatever  should  be  given  either  to  allay  the  one  or  palliate 
the  other,  till  four  or  five  hours  after  the  castor  oil  hajs 
ceased  purging.  Mulligatawny,  made  strong  with  pepper 
and  chillies,  should  be  given,  and  this  continued  for  several 
days.  To  a  European,  young  and  robust,  the  whole  wine 
glass  to  be  given  at  one  dose,  if  he  is  very  bad  with  cho- 
lera. Where  the  spices  cannot  be  procured,  a  strong  de» 
coction   of  ginger   will  answer  the   purpose. 

w2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


£46  INDIiV  DOMXniC  sconomt 

The  following  instructions  (or  the  treatment  of  Choletm 
were  issued  by  thee  Medical  Board  in  Bombay,  during  the 
year  1845:— 

Bleeding. — This  may  be  employed  if  the  pulse  be  easily 
felt  and  cramps  be  very  severe^  but  in  no  case  when  the 
pulse  b  almost  gone  and  cramps  are  not  present. 

Mixture  loith  Opiums — Of  this  a  dose  suited  to  the  com- 
mencement of  the  treatment,  and  if  the  purging  continue, 
it  may   be  repeated  once. 

Pills. — One  is  to  be  given  to  an  adult,  and  half  a  pill 
to  a  person  15  years  old,  to  check  vomiting,  if  the  mix- 
ture be  rqected ;  and  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour  after 
taking  the  pill  nothing  is  to  be  swallowed.  No  pill  is  to 
be  given  under   15  years  of  age. 

Mixture  mthaut  Opium.— 01  this  a  dose  suited  to  the 
age  is  to  be  given  regularly  every  hour*  or  two  hours  afta 
purging  and  vomiting  have  been  checked  by  the  preceding 
medicines,  until  the  pulse  improve  and  the  skin  become 
warm. 

Cholera  Mixture  icith   Opium* 

Solution  of  Ammonia 9^  draoims* 

Essence  of  Peppermint 5         „ 

Tincl.  of  Opium 19         „ 

Brandy 19  ounces  and      64        „ 


N.  B.— Of  this  mixture  one  ounce  contains  474*  minims 
of  Tinct.  of  Opium,  and  ten  minims  contain  almost  one 
minim  of  the  Tincture. 

Cholera  Mixture  without  Opium* 

Solution  of  Ammonia 1      ounce. 

Compound  Tincture  of  Cinnamon 1^       „ 

Water 2U       „ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  GOOKBBT.  647 

N*  B»— Of  this  mixture  one  ounce  coutaiiiB  SO  minims 
of  the  solution  of  ammonift^  and  26  muiimB  contain  1^  minim 
of  the  solution. 

Cholera  Pills. 

Extract  of  Opium 86  grains. 

Powder  of  Black  Pepper 48      „ 

Mix  and  divide  into  24  equal  pills. 
N.  B.— *Each  pill  contains  1^  grain  of  opium. 


DOSES, 

Cholera  Mixture  toith  Opium, 

Dose  at  adult  age»  one  ounce  or  two  table-^poonfols  in  water. 
16  years,  half  an  ounce  or  one  table-spoonful. 
8    ,,    90  minims  or  180  drops. 
4    „    40       „       „    80    „ 
2    „    «0      „       „    40    „ 
1     „     10       „       „    «0     „ 

To  persons  above  eight  years,  these  doses  may  be  repeated 
oi^ce  only  if  no  pill  shall  have  been  given,  and  to  persons 
below  eight  years>  a  half  dose  only  may  be  given,  if  the  first 
dose  shall  have  been  insufficient  to  check  vomiting  and 
purging. 

Cholera  Mixture  without  Opium, 

Dose  at  adult  age,  one  ounce  or  two  table-spoonfols  in 
as  much  water. 

♦ 

16  years,  half  ounce  or    one  table-spoonfol  in  water. 

8  „  quarter   „  „    two  tesrspoonfols '  in  water. 

4  „      60  drops  in  a  little  water. 

*  w      30        „  „  „ 

1  „      15 


M  M  n 


Digitized  by 


Google 


548  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY   AND  COOKERY. 

These  closes  may  be  repeated  every  one  or  two  hours 
after  vomiting  and  purging  have  ceased,  until  the  pulse 
improve  and   the     skin    become   warm. 

Hot  bricks,  or  bags  of  hot  sand  or  bottles  of  hot  water 
Wrapped  up  in  cloth,  are  to  be  applied  along  the  spine^ 
and  to  the  legs,  the  legs  and  arms  being  at  the  same 
time   constantly  rubbed. 

Drink, — ^The  patient  is  not  to  be  allowed  the  free  use 
of  water,  as  drinking  it  will  keep  up  vomiting  and  prevent 
the  medicine  being  retained ;  a  spoonful  only  of  conjee, 
or   water  with  a  little   brandy,  may  be  given  now  and  then. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CHAPTER  XXXIII. 


^i>«M^«V«M«v\A>v« 


THE  KITCHEN  GARDEN- 

Where  you  have  an  opportunity  of  selecting  ground 
for  this  purpose,  choose  a  spot  possessing  a  good  command 
of  water,  free  from  trees,  and  of  a  neat  and  loamy  soil, 
Buch  being  best  suited  for  vegetation.  But  if  no  choice 
be  left  for  selection  of  a  spot,  and  that  you  must  turn  to 
the  best  account  you  can  that  which  you  possess,  examine 
carefully  its  texture,  and  endeavour,  if  necessary,  by  arti- 
ficial means,  to  render  it  as  productive  as  possible,  and 
which  can  only  be  done  by  adding  manure  to  the  soil,  or 
the  requisite  material  for  either  destroying  its  tenacity  if 
of  a  clayey  nature,  or  if  of  a  sandy  soil  by  mixing  with 
it  loam  or  peat,  so  as  to  make  it  retain  the  requisite 
Iportion  of    moisture. 

Loam  is  an  earthy  mixture  containing  considerable  pro- 
portions of  clay  and  sand,  but,  when  calcareous  rnatt^  is 
ako  present,  it  is  termed  marl ;  any  soil  that  doe?  not 
cohere  so  strongly  as  clay,  but  more  strongly  than  chalk, 
is  designated  loam. 

PeaL — ^Lakes  and  tanks  of  water  are  sometimes  filled 
up  by  the  accumulation  of  the  remains  of  aquatic  plants, 
and  in  this  ,case  a  sort  of  curious  peat  is  formed.  The 
fermentation  in  these  cases  seems  to  be  of  a  different  kind, 
much  more  gaseous  matter  is  evolved,  and  the  neighboiir- 
hood  of  morasses,  or  tanks,  in  which  aquatic  vegetables 
exist  is  usually  aguish  and  unhealthy,  whilst  that  of  true 
peat   formed    on  soils    originally    dry  is    always    salubrious. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


550  INDIAN    DOIIBSTIC  BCONOICT 

Soils  may  generally  be  distingoished  from  mere  manes 
of  earth  from  their  friable  texturei  dad^  color^  and  by  the 
presence  of    some  vegetable    fibre   or  carbonaceous    matter. 

The  species  of  soil  is  always  determined  by  the  mix- 
ture of  matters^  and  never  by  the  colour  or  texture^  of 
that  mixture,  which  belongs  to  the  nomenclature  of  va- 
rieties. Thus  a  clayey  soil  with  sand,  is  a  sandy  day— 
this  is  the  name  of  the  species  ;  if  the  mass  is  yellow  or 
red,  it  is  a  yellow  or  red  sandy  soil,  which  expresses  at 
once  the  genus,  species,  and  variety. 

The  true  nourishment  of  plants  is  water  and  oiganic 
matter.  Both  these  exist  only  in  soils,  and  not  in  pure 
earth,  but  the  earthy  parts  of  the  soil  ai^  useful  in 
retaining  water,  so  as  to  supply  it  in  proper  proportions 
to  the  roots  of  vegetables,  and  they  are  likewise  efficacious 
in  producing  the  proper  distribution  of  the  animal  or  ve- 
getable matter.  When  equally  mixed  with  it^  they  prevent 
it  from  decomposing  too  rapidly,  and  by  these  means  the 
soluble  parts  are  supplied  in  proper  proportion. 

The  power  of  soils  to  absorb  water  from  air  is  much 
connected  with  fertility.  When  this  power  is  great,  the 
plant  is  supplied  with  moisture  in  dry  seasons,  and  the 
effect  of  evaporation  in  the  day  is  counteracted  by  the 
absorption  of  aqueous  vapour  from  the  atmosphere  by 
the  interior  parts  of  the  soil  during  the  day,  and  by  both 
the  exterior  and  interior  during  the  night. 

TsixTU&B  OF  Soils. — ^The  perpendicular  extent  of  roots 
is  greatly  influenced  by  the  looseness  or  compactness  of 
the  soil.  Ab  for  instance,  earrots^  beet^  &c.  All  deep 
penetrating  roots,  when  placed  in  a  hard  or  stiff  soil  not 
easily  divisible,  are  not  only  dwarfed,  but  split  into  branch- 
es, or  twisted,  as  they  may*  Since,  then,  the  mere  texture 
of  the  soil,  independently  of  the  food  of  plaxits  which  it 
contains,  produces  such  effects,  it  must  be  of  the  greatest 
importance  to  attend  to    this    circumstance. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKBKT«  551 

If  the  soil  is  of  a  sandj  natare  and  very  porons,  the 
water  natuiaUy  sinks  into  it  and  moves  towards  the  bot- 
tom^ which  if  not  of  a  firmer  texture,  it  will  drain  awaj, 
and  as  the  heat  expands  the  water  nearest  the  surface  in<- 
to  vapour  and  raises  it  into  the  air,  as  soon  as  by 
this  means  the  surface  becomes  dry,  the  moisture  below 
will  gradually  rise  in  the  same  way,  leaving  little  or  no 
further  nourishment  for  the  plant;  this  is  to  be  remedied 
by  mixing  a  due  proportion  of  loam,  or  clayey  matter,  in 
moderate  quantities,  from  time  to  time,  and  dressing  the 
soil  with  old  decomposed  vegetable  manure. 

Where  the  soil,  on  the  contrary,  is  of  a  clayey  nature, 
the  free  use  of  river,  road  sand,  or  brick  dust  will  correct 
this  evil ;  but  ^  both  must  be  well  worked  and  incorporated 
together,  to  render  it  less  adhesive,  and  manure  sup* 
plied   in  the  necessary   quantity. 

If  the  soil  is  worn  out  and  requires  renovating,  dig  it 
deep,  turning  the  lower  surface  as  much  uppermost  as 
possible,  and  pulverise  it  well,  giving  a  good  dressing  with 
animal  and  vegetable  manure. 

The  sweepings  of  the  garden,  refuse  vegetables,  weeds, 
the  proning  of  shrubs,  with  all  kinds  of  vegetable  matter, 
thrown  into  a  heap  and  allowed  to  ferment  and  decay, 
soon  become  manure,  and  this  kind  is  peculiarly  adapted  for 
sowing  seed  and  first  rearing  plants  in,  as  all  young  plants 
on  first  germinating  from  seed  require  a  different  nourish- 
ment than  when  more  advanced,  after  they  have  exhaust-^ 
ed   that  contained  in  the  seed-lobes  and  seed-leaves. 

The  great  object  in  the  application  of  manure,  is  to 
make  it  afford  as  much  soluble  matter  as  possible  to  the 
roots  of  the  plants,  and  that  in  a  slow  and  gradual 
manner,  so  that  it  may  be  entirely  consumed  in  forming 
its  sap  and  organised  parts.  Animal  and  vegetable 
manures    can  only  nourish    the    plant,    by   affording     solid 


Digitized  by 


Google 


552  INDIAN   D0UJ5STIC  ICONOMY 

matter  capable  of  being  dissolved  bj  water^  or  gaseous 
substances  capable  of  being  absorbed  by  the  fluids  in  the 
leaves  of  vegetables.  Animal  substances,  such  as  carcases 
of  beasts,  require  no  chemical  preparation  to  fit  them 
for  the  soil.  The  object  is,  to  blend  them  with  earthy 
constituents,  in  a  proper  state  of  division,  so  as  to  prevent 
their  too  rapid  decomposition.  If  covered  with  six  times 
their 'bulk  of  soil,  mixed  with  one  part  lime,  and  suffered 
to  remain  for  a  few  months,  a  very  rich  manure  is 
formed.  To  destroy  the  effluvia  at  the  time  of  removal, 
a  little  more  fresh  lime  should    be   mixed   with  it. 

Blood  contains  certain  quantities  of  all  the  principles 
found  in  other  animal  substances,  and  is  therefore  a  very 
good  manure.  Bones  are  6f  g^e^t  i^e  as  a  manure^  and 
the  more  divided  they  are  the  more  powerful  their  effect, 
but  when  broken  only  instead  of  ground  to  dust  they  are 
more  lasting.  The  easily  decomposable  substances  in  bone 
ure  fat,  ,  gelatine  and  cartilage,  which  seem  of  the  same 
nature  as  coagulated  albumen,  and  are  slowly  rendered 
soluble  by  the  action  of  water. 

The  shavings  of  horn  are  a  still  more  powerful  manure 
than  bone,  as  they  contain  a  larger  quantity  of  decomposa- 
ble ,matt«r.  The  earthy  matter  in  horn,  and  still  more 
in  bone  prevents  the  too  rapid  decomposition  of  ^  animal 
matter,  and  renders  the  effect    very   durable. 

Pigeons'  dung,  next  to  guano,  possesses  the  most  for* 
tilizing  power ;  the  dung  of  domestic  fowls  possesses  the 
same  properties  as  that  of  pigeons,  but  in  an  inferior 
degree. 

Rabbits'  dung  is  also  used  with  great  success,  and  is 
best  when  laid   on   as  fresh   as   possible. 

Tlie  dung  of  cattle,  oxen  and  cows,  contains  matter 
soluble  in  water,   and  gives    in    fermenting    nearly  the  same 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    OOOKEKY.  553 

products    as   vegetable    substances,    absorbing    oxygen    and 
producing   carbonic  acid   gas. 

Liquid  manures  are  formed  by  infusing  rich  dungs^  as 
those  of  fowls,  sheep,  pigs,  &C.9  or  blood,  in  three  or  four 
times  their  bulk  of  water»  and  the  application  of  the  ex- 
tract so  procured  is  made  at  the  usual  season  of  watering, 
taking  care  to  apply  it  only  to  the  roots. 

The  value  of  liquid  manure  is  well  known  in  England 
to  gardeners,  and  there  is  no  reason  why  it  should  not 
be  of  equal  importance  to  the  agriculturist  in  this  conn* 
try;  and  if  the  draining  from  the  dung  heap  was  only 
preserved,  as  it  might  be,  during  the  rains,  in  tanks  or 
other  reservoirs,  and  then  mixed  with  loam  and  kept 
under  a  shed,  it  would  prove  the  best  compost  for  flowers 
and  vegetables. 

Fish  is  a  powerful  manure,  and  should  be  dug  in  fresh, 
but  not  in  too  great  quantities,   or  the  crop  will  be  ][ank, 

Tbansflaktino. — If  the  object  be  to  remove  trees  or 
shrubs,  it  is  essentially  necessary  that  the  root  fibres  should 
be  uninjured,  and  that  a  sufficiency  of  the  soil  attached  to 
the  roots  be  removed  with  theni  If  you  are  transplanting 
vegetables,  such  as  beet,  carrots,  turnips,  &c.,  the  best 
.  method  is  to  use  a  straight  dibber^  place  the  roots  perpen- 
dicularly without  bending  the  sap*root,  and  then  gently 
replace  the  earth  around  it.  It  may  perhaps  be  necessary, 
should  the  root  fibres  be  injured,  to  remove  some  of  the 
leaves,  otherwise  the  remaining  fibres  will  not  be  able  to 
nourish  the  plant. 

When  it  is  found  impossible  to  preserve  the  root  fibres 
from  injury,  or  to  replant  them  exactly  in  their  former 
position,  in  order  to  diminish  the  loss  of  sap,  the  plants 
ought  to  be  shaded  from  the  light  and  sun  for  a  time,  or  a 
part  of  their  leaves  or  branches  should  be  cut  off. 

X  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


554  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  SCONOHY 

The  removing  of  plants  or  trees  depends  solely  npon 
circumstances ;  and  the  principal  facts  to  be  remembered 
hj  gardeners  are,  that  all  trees  and  plants  derive  their 
nourishment  through  the  tips  of  the  root  fibres^  and  that 
the  sap  carried  into  the  leaves  passes  off  bj  exposure 
to  light  and  sunshine ;  therefore  the  necessity  of  great 
care  being  used  to  preserve  the  mouths  (or  spongioles) 
entire. 

Watib. — ^Water  is  essentially  necessary  for  the  nourish- 
ment of  plants^  and  although  some  will  grow  and  throW 
out  flowers^  they  never  form  seed  without  it. 

The  material  which  water  holds  in  solution  forms  the 
important  part  of  nourishment,  or  otherwise  causes  the 
decay  of  plants.  All  water  contains  more  or  less  atmos- 
pheric air,  and  water  is  more  or  less  beneficial  in  propor- 
tion to  the  quantity  mixed  with  it,  Kain  water,  from  its 
falling,  collects  a  large  proportion  of  air  during  its  descent. 

WiNTBBiNG. — ^Trees  are  brought  into  bearing  by  this 
process,  which  consists  in  carefully  removing  the  earth 
from  the  trunk  roots  and  laying  them  open,  and  at  the 
same  time  picking  off  all  the  leaves.  The  tree  is  left  in 
this  way  without  water  for  a  certain  period,  and  is  thus 
brought  into  bearing  by  the  nutrient  matters  and  proper- 
ties of  the  sap  being  thickened,  and  thus  stored  up  and 
afterwards  thrown  into  the  buds,  the  pulp,  wood,  root, 
and  crown  of  the  root.  The  check  to  the  growth  of  trees 
by  wintering,  &c.  is  thus  advantageous,  causing  the  leaf 
pulp  to  become  thickened  by  the  loss  of  water  and  oxygen. 
—-When  it  returns  to  the  stem  and  crown  of  the  roots, 
it  lays  the  basis  of  fresh  branches  terminating  in  flower 
buds.  Whereas,  were  a  plant  to  remain  unmoved  in  a 
rich  s(^  well  watered,  it  would  probably  send  up  more 
sap  than  the  light  could  readily  deprive  of  its  water  and 
oxygen,  and  thence  would  purii  out  new  leaves  to  cany 
off    the   superabundance^    while   there    would  be   no    pulp 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  OOOKBBT.  565 

formed  thick  enough  and  containing    enough  of  carbon   to 
produce  flowers. 

WoKMs — May  either  be  destroyed  by  picking  them  up 
by  hand  very  early  in  the  morning  or  late  in  the  evening 
in  moist  weather,  or  by  watering  by  lime  or  salt  and 
water. 

Wounds  in  Trbes. — ^To  heal  wounds  in  trees,  make  a 
varnish  of  common  linseed  oil  rendered  very  dry,  boiling 
it  for  the  space  of  an  hour  with  an  ounce  of  litharge  to 
each  pound  of  oil,  mix  with  calcined  bones  (pulverized 
and  sifted)  to  the  consistence  of  almost  a  liquid  paste. 
The  wounds  are  to  be  covered  by  means  of  a  brush,  after 
the  bark  and  other  substances  have  been  pared  off  so  as  to 
render  the  whole  as  smooth  and  even  as  possible.  The  var* 
nish  must  be  applied  in  dry  weather,  in  order  that  it  may 
attach  itself  properly. 

DsffTBOTiNG  Whits  Ants. — ^Take  a  bundle  of  the  twigs 
of  the  Sarcostemma  Yiminali ;  put  it  into  the  trough  or 
pot  by  which  the  bed  or  field  is  watered,  along  with  a 
bag  of  salt  hard  packed,  so  that  it  may  only  dissolve 
gradually.  Water  so  impregnated  destroys  insects  with-- 
out  injuring  the  plants.  Dry  twigs  answer  as  well  as 
green.  It  abounds  in  the  Deccan,  and  all  Gk)gah  and  the 
coast  of  Kattywar.— iTffu?.  Soom. 

Dbstboying  Insects  on  Ybobtablbs,  &c. — Sprinkle  the 
leaves  over  with  very  fine  *  pounded  sulphur  tied  up  in  a 
muslin  '  bag,  or  with  wood-ashes  from  the  kitchen. 
Fumigate  also  the  trees  with  tobacco  smoke,  or  sprinkle 
the  leaves  with  a  solution  made  after  the  foQowing  manner  ; 
to  three  parts  of  the  hme  add  one  of  sulphtur,  and  boil  both 
together  in  one  hundred  parts  of  water  ;  you  may  also 
soak  the  seed  in    this. 

P&EPAR1N6  Ground. — Having  selected  your  spot,  which 
you  wish    to  prepare  for    either  sowing  crops  or  making  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


656  INDIAN   DOMBSnC    ECONOMY 

plantation^  the  first  thing  to  be  done  is  to  dear  it  of 
weeds  by  drying  or  ploughing  the  whole  up  well,  exposing 
the  earth  to  the  action  of  the  sun  and  air,  then  breaking 
up  the  dods  of  earth  and  removing  the  weeds,  which 
should  be  burnt  on  the  spot,  as  the  ashes  form  an  excel* 
lent  manure,  and  you  are  certain  that  the  weeds  are 
destroyed. 

Pruning— Consists  in  removing  all  superfluous  branches, 
either  for  the  purpose  of  increasing  the  fruit,  making  the  tree 
bear  better,  and  more  regular  in  its  appearance,  or  enlarg- 
ing the  tree.  Though  an  operation  in  general  practice,  it 
is  nevertheless  but  by  few  properly  understood,  and  is 
only  to  be  acquired  by  practice  and  observation,  bearing 
in  mind  the  various  modes  in  which  each  tree  is 
disposed  to  produce  its  fruit  or  flower,  and  being  careful 
to  remove  such  branches  and  slips  only  as  may  be  neoea- 
sary,  without  disfiguring  or  injuring  the  tree,  &c.  Be 
careful  in  removing  decayed  branches,  thftt  you  cut  them 
clean  down  to  the  place  from  which  they  were  produced, 
otherwise  that  part  of  the  branch  which  is  left  will  also 
decay  and  prove  hurtful   to  the  tree. 


DIEECTIONS  POE  CULTIVATING  EUfiOPE 
VEGETABLES,  Etc. 

Artichokb. — ^There  are  four  species  ;  only  two  are  cul- 
tivated for  use.  It  has  large  pinnatified  leaves,  erect,  and 
of  about  two  or  three  feet  long.  Prom  the  centre  arises 
a  long  stalk,  which  gives  off  branches,  on  the  top  of 
which  is  a  large  round  scaly  head  composed  of  numeroos 
oval  scales  enclosing  the  florets  setting  on  a  large  fleshy 
base,  which,  with  the  fleshy  part  on  the  base  of  the  scales, 
is  the  only  part  eaten  :  it  is  called    the  artichoke  bottom. 

The  two  sorts  grown  are,  the  French  conical  spine- 
leafed,    and    round  Dutch  globular-headed.    The  seed   may 


Digitized  by 


Google 


I 


AND  OOOKEBT.  657 

be  sown  in  Jane  and  continued  during  the  rains ;  the  soil 
should  be  light  and  of  a  good  loamy  description;  the  seed 
soirn  at  least  six  inches  apart.  When  they  are  in  four  or 
six  leavesj  they  may  be  transplanted  in  rows^  and  in 
0{ien  situations  and  good  soil^  three  or  four  feet  asunder. 
The  ground  should  be  of  a  light  consistence  and  well 
manured.  Let  the  trenches  be  about  six  inches  deep,  and 
at  least  from  one  to  two  feet  broad :  they  will  require 
occasional  irrigation  if  the  weather  is  dry,  after  having 
been  well  watered  by  the  hand.  When  first  removed,  at 
the  latter  end  of  the  rains,  and  the  plants  have  arrived  at 
ahnost  their  full  size,  a  small  black  fly  collects  upon  them 
in  the  greatest  abundance,  and  destroys  the  whole  of  the 
leaves.  This  also  happens  to  plants  raised  from  seed  sown 
in  October,  or  at  the  close  of  the  rains.  When  the 
plants,  in  January,  February  and  March  have  arrived  at 
their  foil  perfection,  they  may  be  propagated  from  slips 
that  grow  on  the  side  of  the  old  plants,  which  wither  and 
diy  as  soon  as  the  fruit  is  ripe  and  gone  to  seed.  Care 
must  be  taken  in  removing  both  plants  and  shoots,  that 
a  sufficient  quantity  of  earth  is  taken  up  with  the  roots, 
80  that  the  spongioles  are  uninjured.  When  they  appear 
to  have  taken  root  well,  let  the  ground  occasionally  be 
loosened  round  them,  and  the  stalks  well  earthed  up. 
The  best  means  of  preserving  the  plants  from  being  de- 
stroyed by  the  fly  is,  to  cover  the  leaves  well  over  with 
ashes  from  the  kitchen,  or  sprinkle  them  with  tobacco 
water.  The  seed  from  Europe,  the  Cape,  Persia,  and 
Hindoostan,  all  grows  well,  but  the  plants  that  I  have  suc- 
ceeded best  with  wer6  from  the  upper  provinces  of  Bengal; 
they  were  of  the  large  globular  kind,  and  from  •  being 
aodimated,  I  thought  they  did  not  suffer  so  much  from 
the  fly  as  others.  More  than  one  head  should  not  be 
allowed  on  each  stalk:  pick  all  the  others  off.  If  a  piece 
of  stick  is  run  through  the  stalk  across,  under  each 
head,  it  tends  to  enlarge  it.  The  seed  may  be  collect- 
ed whenever  ripe,  which  is  mostly  in    May  or    June.    The 


Digitized  by 


Google 


568  INDIAN   DOMSmC    SOONOMY 

largest  and  finest  heads  do  not  always  give  the  most  seed 
—often  the  reverse:  Young  artichoke  shoots,  if  blanched, 
may    be  eaten   as  salad. 

AsPAEAGUS.— The  species  are  many,  but  only  one  is  cul- 
tivated for  use.  The  method  of  first  raising  the  plants 
from  seed,  is  either  by  broad  cast,  in  beds  of  six  feet 
square,  or  in  long  beds  of  about  two  feet  broad,  where  they 
are  to  remain.  If  sown  in  square  beds,  when  the  grass 
is  about  six  or  ten  inches  high,  and  begins  to.  bear  small 
flowers,  it  may  then  be  transplanted,  and  must  be  care- 
fully taken  up  with  a  sufficiency  of  earth  attached  to  the 
roots,  and  planted  in  trenches  at  least  six  inches  deep 
and  eighteen  broad.  Between  each  trench  should  be  a 
space  of  one  foot  or;  more.  The  plants  may  then  be  laid 
down  in  double  rows  in  the  trench  prepared,  at  six  or 
eight  inches  asunder— perhaps  a  greater  distance  may  be 
better.  The  roots  must  be  carefully  covered,  and  well 
watered.  The  beds  cannot  be  of  too  rich  and  light «  soil, 
and  must  be  kept  clear  of  weeds,  and  watered  as  occasion 
requires.  When  the  asparagus  is  sufficiently  strong  to 
commence  working  the  beds  after  the  stalks  have  gone  to 
seed  the  watering  should  be  discontinued,  and  the  stalks 
allowed  to  dry  and  wither;  then  uncover  carefully  the 
roots,  being  cautious  not  to  injure  the  crowns  5  cut  or 
twist  off  the  stalks  and  cover  up  the  crowns  again  with 
old  rich  manure  about  two  inches  high  ;  then  turn  over 
upon  it  the  spare  ground  that  has  been  left  between  the 
trenches.  Thus  you  wiU  have  in  the  middle  of  the  rows 
a  water-course,  which  will  serve  to  irrigate  the  roots 
below.  The  watering  must  be  continued  daily  if  neces- 
sary,  which  will  cause  the  plants  to  send  shoots  up 
through  the  loose  soil  above  them,  and,  if  well  managed, 
the  grass  will  be  white  and  fine.  Before  putting  down 
your  plants  in  trenches,  plenty  of  good  manure  should  be 
well  dug  into  them,  so  as  to  form  a  rich  soil  for  the 
roots  to  strike  in.    After  the  grass  has  been  cut,  and   the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  559 

shoots  are  getting  thin^  cease  working  the  beds  and  let 
them  go  to  seed,  when  they  may  be  again  worked.  You 
will  seldom  get  more  than  two  crops  in  the  year  from 
the  same  beds,  therefore  you  should  have  them  in  succes- 
sion. I  do  not  know  of  any  animals,  except  rats,  destruc- 
tive  to  the  roots ;   flooding  with  water  is  the  only  remedy. 

Basil,  Swsbt  Borage— Grows  as  a  shrub,  and  is  only 
used  for  seasonings,  with  other  sweet  herbs,  in  various 
culinary  operations.  Grows  in  all  parts  of  India  from 
seed  or  slips,  in  any  light  soil.  Is  used  chiefly  for  flavor- 
ing sherbet,  &c. 

Beans,  Broad  and  Windsor — Should  be  sown  in  the 
cold  weather  in  drills,  the  same  as  peas,  each  bean  six 
inches  apart;  the  rows  sufficiently  separated  to  admit  a 
person  to  pass  between  them  for  picking,   weeding,    &c. 

The  best  time  in  the  Deccan  for  sowing  is  in  November, 
and  if  the  ground  is  light  and  well  manured,  there  is  no 
chance  of  failure.  I  would  also  recommend  the  seed  to 
be  changed  every  season.  Bats  and  porcupines  are  very 
destructive  to  them. 

Beans  y  French — Whitb,  Black,  and  Yellow  Haricot. 
—These  beans  are  runners  and  dwarfs;  they  should  be 
sown  in  rows  about  two  feet  apart,  and  you  may  com- 
mence sowing  them  at  the  close  of  the  hot  winds.  The 
dwarf  white  are  preferable  at  the  early  part  of  the  season, 
as  they  bear  sooner  than  the  other  sorts,  which  require 
sticks  at  least  six  feet  high,  and  strong,  so  that  they  may 
stand  the  rain  and  wind;  you  can  continue  to  plant  them 
until  March  with  success.  All  that  is  necessary  is  not  to 
put  them  too  close,  and  to  remove  caterpillars  that  are 
found  upon  them  during  the  months  of  July  and  August. 
These  beans  are  very  hardy,  and  grow  well  in  almost  any 
soil ;  at  the  beginning  of  the  rains  the  blistering  fly 
(mylabris  cichorea)  is  very  destructive  to  the  flower,  and 
must  be  carefully  removed. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


560  INDIAN    DOMESTIC  BCONOUT 

The  Portuguese  bean^  or  Chevaux  de  Frise,  cultivated 
like  all  other  beans.  Its  pod  has  four  fringed  angles,  the 
edges  jagged:  they   are  dressed  b'ke  French  beans. 

All  the  other  sorts  are  grown  in  the  same  manner. 

Bbbt-Eoot,  Ebd  and  White — Is  grown  from  seed,  and 
thrives  best  in  a  light  grey  soil.  The  seed  may  be  sown 
in  the  latter  end  of  May,  and  transplanted  in  either  rows 
or  beds.  This  crop  will  not  produce  such  large  roots  as 
those  sown  later,  but  with  care  some  roots  fit  for  salad  may 
be  forthcoming  in  September ;  and  I  would  advise  the  plants 
being  grown  on  ridges  during  the  rainy  season.  The  leaves, 
when  not  too  larger  of  both  species,  are  used  and  eaten  as 
spinach.  Each  plant  should  be  at  least  a  foot  apart,  and 
in  transplanting  them,  care  must  be  taken  to  draw  the  root 
up  unbroken,  and  the  hole  in  which  they  are  put  should, 
with  a  4ibble,  be  made  quite  even,  and  the  plant  pat  in 
straight.  It  may  be  transplanted  at  any  period  of  its 
growth,  except  when  going  to  seed,  and  which  all  the  early 
sown  is  apt  to  do.  Fresh  seed,  if  procurable,  is  to  be  pre- 
ferred, though  I  have  no  doubt  if  seed  grown  in  the  Deccan 
were  sent  to  another  part  of  the  country  it  would  thrive 
weU.  Beet-root  is  always  the  finer  for  not  being  trans- 
planted, and  the  soil  cannot  be  too  light,  and  should  be  of 
a  rich  old  vegetable  manure. 

BooR-CoLB— Grows  to  great  perfection;  the  leaves  are 
curled.  The  top  should  be  cut  off  when  two  feet  high ;  the 
sprouts  being  the  only  part  fit  for  use.  It  is  cultivated  the 
same  as  cabbage,  and  may  be  had  all   the  year  round. 

Beooooli.— For  culture,  see  CauUJlower. 

Cabbagb. — I  shall  confine  myself  to  two  or  three  sorts 
— ^the  drumhead,  sugar-loaf,  and  savoy,  as  all  the  others 
require  similar  care  and  attention.  You  may  sow  the  seed 
in  the  latter  end  of  May  in  boxes,  or  baskets,  shaded  at 
first  from  the  sun  and    kept  continually    moist.    The    ad- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOREEY.  561 

vantage  of  sowing  them  thus  early  is,  that  the  plants,  by 
the  time  the  rains  have  set  in,  are  strong,  and  the  leaves 
do  not  offer  to  the  small  insect  which  settles  upon  them 
to  lay  its  eggs,  the  nourishment  necessary  for  the  young 
caterpillar  when  hatched.  The  plants,  when  about  three 
inches  high,  should  be  pricked  out  into  other  boxes,  about 
two  inches  apart,  and  lightly  covered  over  with  dry  thorns, 
to  prevent  sparrows  and  other  small  birds  from  eating  them. 
When  large  enough  to  be  transplanted  into  nursery  beds, 
use  the  same  precaution  with  regard  to  thorns,  and  lastly, 
place  them  where  they  are  to  remain,  in  rows  about  eigh- 
teen inches  apart,  either  on  the  top  of  the  ridge,  or  in  the 
hollow — the  former  method  in  the  rains  is  to  be  preferred. 
The  soil  should  be  light  and  rich.  In  the  cold  season,  the 
precaution  of  sowing  the  seed  in  boxes  is  unnecessary,  as 
it  grows  very  well  in  small  beds  sown  broad-cast,  and 
watered  at  first  by  the  hand,  after  which,  when  removed, 
the  plants  thrive  extremely  well.  If  the  seed  is  sown  as  late  as 
January,  you  may  raise  a  stock  of  plants  which  reach 
but  to  a  small  size  during  the  hot  weather,  and  if  kept  in 
the  beds  and  sheltered  from  hot  winds,  may  be  transplant- 
ed in  the  rains.  They  produce  good  sprouts  for  eating 
when  other  vegetables  are  scarce;  as  also  the  stalks  of  the 
old  cabbages,  of  which,  if  towards  the  end  of  the  rains  the 
shoots  be  carefully  stripped  off,  they  may  be  planted,  and 
a  succession  of  cabbages  procured  by  this  means.  I  have 
known  this  plan  adopted  for  years:  in  fact,  in  my  own 
garden,  particularly  the  red  cabbage,  I  have  cultivated  in 
this   way  for   many   seasons. 

Obs. — ^You  cannot  be  too  careful  in  examining  your  young 
plants  twice  or  thrice  a  day  in  the  early  part  of  the  season, 
and  having  all  the  caterpillars  picked  off  and  destroyed. 
Sugar-loaf  cabbage  and  nole-cole  are  particularly  infested 
with  them.  I  found  that  sprinkling  the  young  plants,  after 
watering,  with  a  little  black  pepper,  caused  the  small  green 
caterpillar  to  leave  the  plant  immediately.  Slugs  and  ca- 
terpillars  have   a  great   aversion    to    pounded   turmeric. 

*  Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


562  INDIAN   DOMESTIC   ECONOMY 

Capsicum.*  Hind.  Mibchee. — ^This  plant  is  so  well  known 
all  over  India  as  thd  large  red  pepper^  thai  it  is  hardly  ne- 
cessary tp  describe  the  method  of  culturei  which  merely 
consists  in  sowing  the  seed  broad-cast,  and  wh^i  the  plants 
are  about  six  inches  high,  to  put  them  either  in  rows  or 
beds  eighteen  inches  apart.  The  soil  should  be  rich.  They 
require  watering   and  being  kept  clear   of  weeds. 

Carrots.  Hind^  Gajur. — ^This  vegetable,  indigenous  to 
India,  needs  little  description.  The  two  kinds  in  general 
cultivation  all  over  the  Deccan  are  the  red  and  yellow — 
(orange  and  lemon  color) ;  they  may  be  sown  at  the  oommenoe- 
^ent  of  the  rains^  broad-cast,  in  beds  of  about  six  feet 
square,  and  should  be  thinned,  having  a  space  of  six  or 
eight  inches  breadth  at  least,  between  each  root :  this  dis- 
tance is  sufficient  for  your  first  crop,  but  those  that  are 
sown  later  should  have  a  larger  space  allowed.  If  yoa 
wish  to  preserve  your  carrots  until  the  commencement  of 
the  rains,  in  the  months  of  March  and  April,  cut  off  the 
green  tops,  and  let  the  roots  remain  in  the  ground ;  this 
checks  their  growth,  and  I  have  by  this  means  had  good 
carrots  until  the  middle  of  July.  I  found  the  yellow  Cape 
to  answer  the  best  for  preserving  ;  the  seed  was  not  sown 
until  January.  They  bear  transplanting  well,  and  may 
be  sown  with  advantage  in  drills.  The  soil  should  be  light 
and  good:  care  must  be  taken,  the  same  as  in  moving  beet» 
not  to  break  the  root. 

Cardoon — Resembles  the  artichoke,  but  grows  much  taller  ; 
the  tender  stalks  and  leaves,  when  bleached,  are  u^ed  in 
soups  and  salads,  by  the  French ;  the  plant  is  cultivated  in  the 
same   manner  as   the  artichoke. 

Cauuplower. — The  seed  should  not  be  sown  until  the 
latter  end  of  August,  as  it  does  not  always  head  well :   it 

♦The  Chinese  produce  the  finest  Capsicnnu  I  have  ever  met  nith. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKBRY.  563 

requires  the  same  care  as  the  cabbage,  and  should  be  plant- 
ed in  a  similar  manner.  Bemoving  the  plants  occasion- 
ally prevents  their  quick  growth ;  and  I  think  if  the  roots, 
when  taken  up,  were  divided  into  halves,  or  quarters, 
before  being  put  into  the  ground,  that  it  would  facilitate 
its  going  to  head.  The  soil  in  which  I  have  seen  the  finest 
heads  grown  was  of  a  greyish  description,  and  the  plants 
had  little  water  given  to  them.  In  England  the  market 
gardeners  seldom  water  cauliflowers,  and  once  in  four  days 
is  amply  sufficient  in  the  Deccan:  no  injury  will  accrue 
even  if  watered  sddomer.  The  white  broccoli  is  often 
taken  for  the  cauliflower  in  this  country,  and  I  have  seen 
heads  large  enough  to  be  divided  into  two  dishes,  and 
then  form  a  sufficiency  to  cover  a  dish  in  general  use  for 
vegetables.  Broccoli,  both  red  and  white,  should  be  cul- 
tivated  in   the  same    manner  as    cauliflower. 


Cbleay. — ^The  seed  may  be  put  down  at  the  commencement 
of  the  rains,  and,  like  other  plants  at  that  season,  is  bet- 
ter for  being  first  sown  in  boxes  or  baskets,  for  the  con* 
venience  of  removing  under  shelter  if  the  weather  is  bad. 
When  the  plants  are  about  two  inches  high  they  may  be 
pricked  out  into  other  boxes  or  baskets,  two  inches  apart, 
where  they  remain  for  the  first  four  or  five  weeks;  then 
remove  into  beds  or  rows ;  to  the  latter  I  give  the  prefer- 
ence atj  the  early  part  of  the  season,  after  that  put  them 
into  square  beds  of  six  feet,  and  about  twelve  inches  apart. 
They  then  grow  so  close  in  the  leaves  that  they  protect 
each  other's  roots  from  the  sun  and  keep  the  beds  moist, 
besides  being  very  readily  blanched,  merely  requiring  a 
couple  of  half  circular  tiles  to  be  put  around  the  stem,  tied 
with  string  or  matting  ;  then  earth  up  the  sides,  which 
completes  the  business.  In  four  or  five  days  you  may  com- 
mence cutting,  and  by  transplanting  the  off-shoots,  have 
a  succession  the  whole  year  round.  The  plant  is  very 
hardy,  and  goes   to  seed  without   any    difficulty. 


Digitized  by 


Google       — 


664  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

Celbriac,  or  Turnip  Sooted. — Another  variety  of  celery, 
and  is  to  be  managed  precisely  in  the  same  manner.  It 
seldom  grows  above  eight  inches,  and  mostly  spreads  npon 
the  ground.  The  root  of  this  only  is  eaten :  it  forms  rather 
a  large  white  bulb,  nearly  the  size  of  a  parsnip,  and  has 
an  exceeding  fine  flavor.  The  root  of  the  celeriac  is  oftener 
used  for  stews  than   eaten  raw. 

Chives. — A  spices  of  shallot.  Propagated  either  by 
slips  or  dividing  the  roots :  this  may  be  done  at  any  season, 
but  best  t  after  the  rains.  Nine  or  ten  inches  of  space 
must  be  allowed  between    each   bulb. 

Cress. — It  is  to  be  sown  thick  in  very  narrow  drills, 
about  one  inch  deep  and  a  few  inches  apart.  It  requires 
to  be  well  watered,  and  is  in  season  all  the  year  round. 
It  is  only  used  for  salading.  The  seed  is  sold  in  the  ba- 
zaars, and  known  by  the  name  of  Hallam  :  it  should  be 
cut  for   use  when  two  inches  high. 

Cccumbees,  Green  and  White. — ^This  vegetable  is  'grown 
from  seed  at  all  seasons.  The  plants  should  never  be  too 
close.  It  tlirives  in  all  parts  of  India,  and  grow»  with 
much  or  little  water  ;  and  being  a  creeper,  if  allowed  to 
climb  over  sticks,  or  trellis  work,  is  more  out  of  the  way 
of  jackalls  and  porcupines,  who  are  fond  of  the  fruit.  The 
natives  grow  them  in  their  fields,  in  the  cold  season, 
amongst  grain  of  various  sorts,  and  iu  the  sandy  beds  of 
rivers  during   the  hot  weather. 

Egg-Plant.  See  BrivjaL 

Endive,  Curled  and  Elat-Lbafed. — ^The  seed  may  be 
sown  in  the  earliest  part  of  the  rains  in  beds  or  boxes ; 
the  plants  when  about  two  inches  high  should  be  pricked 
out  into  beds,  or  placed  in  drills.  They  should  not  be 
nearer  than  one  foot,  and  when  grown  to  their  full  size, 
must  be  tied  up  to  bleach.  If  in  the  rains,  it  is  re- 
quisite that  the  plants  should  be  every  now  and  then  opened. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  565 

to  let  off  the  water  that  may  have  collected  inside  the 
plants,  otherwise  they  soon  decay.  The  method  adopted 
in  England  of  placing  a  board  on  the  plants  for  the  pur- 
pose of  bleaching^  will  not  succeed  here^  as  the  white  auta 
attack  them,  and  the  board  stopping  the  free  circulation 
of  air,  prevents  their  growth  and  causes  decay  immedi- 
ately, 

Fennej.— Grows  in  great  abundance  in  all  parts  of 
India.  It  is  often  confounded  with  aniseed.  It  may  be 
sown  in  beds,  or  rows,  and  does  not  require  any  particu- 
lar care.  It  is  an  annual,  and  dies  as  soon  as .  it  has 
given  seed. 

Garlic.  Hind.  Lussun. — ^This  is  common  all  over  India, 
.  and  may  be  grown  from  seed  or  roots — ^the  latter  method 
is  most  in  practice.  One  of  the  bulbs  is  broken  and  the 
cloves  taken  out  and  planted  in  beds  about  four  inch(^s 
apart:  no  particular  care  is  required  save  watering  and 
keeping  clear  of  weeds.  When  the  leaves  dry  and  wither, 
then  take   up  the  roots  and  preserve  in  a  safe  place. 

Horse  Radish.— I  have  never  seen  the  plant  in  India  ;'^ 
a  substitute  is  the  root  of  the  Mooringa,  scraped,  which 
grows  wild ;  and  the  pods,  when  young,  are  used  as  a 
vegetable,  both  boiled  and  in  curries.  The  tree  is  easily 
propagated  by  seed,  and  only  requires  watering  for  a  few 
months  when  first  sown. 

Jerusalek  Artichoke. — This  is  a  species  of  sun-flower, 
and  is,  I  believe,  a  native  of  South  America.  It  goes  to 
seed  generally  in  October  and  November,  and  may  be 
raised  from  it,  or  by  dividing  the  roots,  planting  them 
the  same  as  potatoes.  They  should  be  put  down  in 
January  or  February,  and  will  require  occasional  watering 
until    the    rains,,  when    they    make    their    appearance.    As 


*  I  have  since  hevd  it  is^  and  has  been  grown  in  Candeish. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


/ 


666  INDIAN   DOUBSTIC  ECONOMY 

the  plants  grow  they  mast  be  well  earthed  op,  and  if  very 
tall,  may  probably  require  to  be  supported  with  sticks. 
This  vegetable  is  ripe  as  soon  as  the  stalk  withers^  and 
the  best  method  of  preserving  it  is  to  let  the  roots 
remain  in  the  ground — ^that  is,  if  the  white  ants  and  other 
insects  do  not  attack  them.  If  you  are  obliged  to  take 
them  up,  keep  them  in  a  safe  place,  in  earth,  watering 
them  occasiotially.  To  sow  them,  put  either  a  half  or 
a  whole  one,  at  a  foot  distance,  in  rows,  the  same  as 
potatoes,  and  attend  to  them  in  like  manner. 

Lbbks. — The  seed  may  be  sown  at  the  commencement 
of  the  rains,  or  after,  in  beds,  broad-cast.  When  about 
six  inches  high  they  require  transplanting  into  large 
beds,  or  rows,  at  least  one  foot  apart:  they  go  to  seed 
in  the  course  of  six  months,^  and  grow  very  well  in  all 
parts  of  the  Deccan. 

Lehon  Grass,  or  Sweet  Bush. — ^This  is  a  fine  aromatic 
grass,  aiid  flourishes  well  in  any  good  soil.  It  is  propa- 
gated  by  slips  from  the  root,  and  only  requires  watering. 
It  is   used  as  an    infusion  and  in   tea. 

Lettuce. — ^There  are  various  sorts:  the  most  esteemed 
are  the  cabbage,  red  and  brown  cos-lettuce.  For  early 
salading  the  seed  may  be  sown  at  the  commencement  of 
the  rains,  although  neither  are  in  perfection  until  the' 
cold  season.  They  are  mostly  raised  in  small  beds,  and 
then  transplanted  into  others  at  about  one  foot  s^art, 
or  on  ridges  around  other  vegetables;  they  do  not  require 
any  particular  care.  The  ground  should  be  light  and  rich, 
and  when  the  plants  are  of  a  sufficient  size  they  should  be 
tied  up;  and  this  may  be  done  with  shreds  of  plantain- 
leaf  or  twine, 

Lovb-Apple,  or  Tomata. — ^The  produce  of  South  Amer- 
ica— a  genus  of  the  same  class  as  potatoes.  There 
are  two  sorts^    single  and  double  ;   may  be  sown    inuncdi- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKSBY.  567 

ately  the  rains  commencei  in  beds ;  aftetwartls  transplant- 
ed in  rows,  two  ieet  apart,  and  upon  sticks  of  a  strong 
description^  If  the  soil  is  good,  they  will  grow  to  seven 
or  eight  feet  in  height.  The  double,  which  are  the  finest, 
a  sown  in  Jane  ripen  in  October.  The  lower  branches 
should  be  pruned,  BJ\i  a  succession  of  crops  may  be  kept 
up  until  April.  The  small  single  tomata,  with  a  slight 
protection  from  the  dry  winds,  will  continue  until  the 
rains. 


Mabjobam. — ^A  native  of  India,  and  is  very  easily  reared 
in  beds  or  pots,  either  by  slips  from  the  roots,  or  seed, 
It  is  used  for  flavouring  ragouts,   sauces,   &c. 


^1 


Mblon. — ^The  rock,  green,  and  musk,  {Hind,  Khue 
BoozA,)  are  all  sown  in  the  Deccan  at  the  same  time,-« 
generally  in  beds  of  rivers  where  the  soil  is  light  and 
sandy.  They  are  very  seldom  sown  in  gardens.  The 
seed  is  put  down  in  November,  three  or  four  together, 
with  as  rich  manure  as  can  be  procured.  The  plants  must 
not  be  close  together — ^a  distance  of  from  six  to  eight  feet 
is  generally  allowed.  They  come  in  about  March,  and 
continue  until  the  rains.  In  Bombay  they  are  in  season 
the  same  time,  and  a  second  crop  is  grown  during  the 
rains :  this  is  not  the  case  in  the  Deccan.  The  water  me- 
lon (Hind.  TuR  Booza)  is  also  to  be  had  at  the  same 
time,  and  grown  in  a  similar  manner.  The  seed  should 
always  be  preserved  from  the  finest  and  richest-flavored 
fniit,  and  is  better  for  being  three  or  four  years  old. 
The  green  melon  is  the  finest  flavoured,  although  many 
of  the  others  are  very  good.  I  attribute  the  melons  grow- 
ing finer  in  the  sandy  beds  of  rivers  to  the  temperature 
being  more  equal  about  the  roots  than  it  is  in  beds  in 
the  garden—especially  during  the  night. 

Mint.  Hind^  Podebna.— There  are  three  sorts.  Spear- 
mint, Peppermint  and  Penny  Boyal.  The  first  is  gener* 
ally  used  for  culinary  purposes  :  it  may  be  propagated  by 


Digitized  by 


Google 


668  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

layers^  or  cuttings,  or  parting  of  the  roots ;  it  requires  a 
moderate  proportion  of  water.  In  the  rains  a  small 
black  caterpillar  attacks  the  leaves,  and  will  destroy  the 
whole  bed  if  not  removed  by  hand,  or  by  flooding  the  beds, 
when  the  insect  becomes  detached  from  the  leaTes,  and 
is  easily   destroyed. 

Morel. — ^This  species  of  Fungus  is  found  at  Uie  latter 
end  of  the  rains,  and  generally  dug  out  of  white  ants' 
nests. 

Obs. — ^The  wholesome  sorts  of  mushroom  are  readily 
distinguished  by  being  of  a  pink  or  flesh  color  in  the  gills, 
changing  to  a  darker  color  as  they  get  older ;  they  have 
also  a  peculiar  sweet  smbll :  and  another  criterion  of  their 
being  edible  is    the  outer  skin   pealing  off  easily. 

Mushroom.  Ilind.  Koo  Drattee. — Commonly  found  all 
over  the  country   during   and   after   the  rains. 

Mustard.  Hijid.  Rale.  East  iNDiA.—This  is  of  two 
sorts,  white  and  Black  :  the  former  is  generally  cultivated 
for  salad,  and  is  grown  in  a  similar  manner  to  cress ;  the 
black   mustard  seed   is   used  for  sauces,   pickles,  and   oil. 

Nasturtium. — This  is  either  grown  from  cuttings  or 
seed,  and  merely  requires  to  be  protected  from  the  hot 
winds  to  be  in  flower  all  the  year  round ;  it  grows  much 
better  in  beds  than  pots.  The  flower  and  leaf  are  eaten 
mixed  with  other  salads,  and  the  seeds  when  green  are 
pickled. 

NoLE-CoLB — Must  be  sown  exactly  in  the  same  manner 
recommended  for  cabbage,  broccoli,  &c.  It  comes  in  early, 
and  remains  in  season  until  April.  If  watered  during  the 
hot  weather  and  taken  care  of,  it  will,  when  the  rains 
commence,  throw  out  sprouts,  and  form  other*  nole-colc 
on   the   old  stalk,    which    may    either  be    used,    or  slipped 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKJB&T.  569 

off  and  planted :  they  will  not  be  so  fine  as  those  raised  from 
seed,  yet  are  fit  for  use. 

Onions.  Hind.  Fsbaz. — This  vegetable  is  common  all 
over  India,  and  is  sown  broad-cast.  When  about  six 
inches  high  it  is  pricked  oat  into  beds  six  fingers'  breadth 
apart:  it  is  sown  at  almost  all  seasons  of  the  year,  and 
goes  to  seed   without   di£Elculty. 

Oeachb,  OB  Mountain  Spinach. — Of  this  there  are 
several  varieties,  commonly  known  as  red  and  green  sag 
— the  leaves  are  slightly  acid ;  both  are  boiled  as  spinach, 
but  the  red  is  most  esteemed. 

Propagated  by  seed — ^no   particular  soil   required. 

Paeslkt— Is  cultivated  from  seed :  may  be  sown  in  beds 
or  rows,  where  it  is  to  remain.  The  plants,  when  about 
two  or  three  inches  high,  should  be  thinned,  and  a  space 
of  a  foot  left  between  each.  It  wiU,  if  watered  and  taken 
care  of,  continue  aU  the  year  round.  A  good  plan  is 
occasionally  t6  cut  down  the  leaves  to  within  four  inches 
of  the  root,  as  it  makes  the  parsley  throw  out  young 
and  fresh  ones.  It  bears  transplanting  well.  Always  give 
the  preference  to  Europe  seed.  The  common  parsley  of 
the  country  is  very  insipid.  The  roots  of  parsley  are 
much  used  in  French  cookery. 

Passnips.— This  vegetable  is  very  difficult  to  rear,  as 
it  does  not  often  happen  that  the  seeds  come  up;  they 
should  be  sown  broad-cast  in  beds  of  a  rich  soil,  and  the 
plants,  when  of  a  sufficient  size,  carefully  thinned,  leaving 
a  space  of  one  foot  between  each  plant,  and  removing 
all  weeds.  They  may  be  transplanted,  'but  it  must  be 
done  with  the  same  care  as  recommended  for  beet-root. 
The  proper  time  for  sowing  the  seed  is  the  latter  end  of 
July,  and  they  will  come  in  during  March  and  April. 
It  goes  to  sec^  freely,  but  the  roots  grown  from  it  are 
by  no    means  fine  the  second  year. 

z2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


570  IMDUN   DOMESTIC   XCONOMY 

Peas.    Hind.    Buttana.— The    large    white^    greeoi    and 
brown,  are  now  the  common  peas  in  the  Deccan ;  the  latter 
sort  are    boiled  and  eaten    often  in  the    shell.    Peas  may 
be  sown  in  the  beginning  of  June,  and  contiuued  at  plea- 
sure   until  February    (though  it  will  be  found    that  those 
sown    between  the    10th  of  July    and    middle  of  October 
seldom  yield  a    crop   much   above  the  quantity  put  down) 
when    the    weather    becomes    too    warm    and    the    stalks 
dry    upi  although   I  have    known    peas  to    be    had  mucli 
later    from  the   sheltered    gardens  in  the  city  of  Aurung- 
abad*       The    method    of    sowing    is    very    simple ;     th^ 
should  not  be  too  thin,  or  placed  deeper  in  drills  than  two 
inches,    and    a    space    of    three    feet    between    the    rows. 
I  generally    sow    my    first    crop  in  double    rows,    with   a 
space     of    a    foot    between  ;    when     they    are    ready     to 
climb,  I  earth  up  both    sides   well,  leaving  room  for  the 
water    to  ran  in  the    middle.    I  then    place  good   strong 
sticks  in  the  centre  of  the  rows,  and  on  the  outer  side  of 
each     lay    good    old    manure,     after    which    little    trouble 
is  required.    Keeping  them  free   from    weeds   is  of  coarse 
essential,  and  if  you  wish  to  preserve  the  seed,  take  care 
and  remove  any  of  the    plants  that  appear  of  a    different 
kind    when  in  blossom;   also    draw    out  all    the  thin   and 
bad-looking     plants,    to    prevent    the.  farina    impregnating 
the  good,  and  if  this  seed  be  the  produce  of  the  rain  crop 
you  will  find  if  sown  again  in  the  cold  weather  they  will 
be    much    finer    and  last    longer    than    the    seeds  of  the 
fom^er  season.    I  was  led  to  observe  this  from  seeds  that 
had  fallen  and    grown  up  of  themselves*    If  you  sow   for 
late  crops,  put  them    down  in  single  rows,  and  tiie  lines 
from  east  to  west:  this  enables  the  sun  to  aet  upon    the 
whole,   and  prevents  mildew  from  damp  on  the  stalks*     In 
growing   crops  that  you  do  not  intend  to  stick,  it  is  advi»* 
able    to    put  brushwood    on  one    side  for    them  to  creep 
over,    and   prevent    much    loss    in    seed    from    damp    and 
otherwise. 

Potatoes,    Hind,   Aloo«— This    vegetable,   in  some  parts 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


AND  COOKERY.  571 

of  India,   is  grown  all  the  year  roand :  on  the  Neilgherry 
and   Mahabuleahwar    hills    they    are    in    abundance.    They 
should   be  planted  in  rows  about  one  foot  apart^  and  five 
or  six  inches  deep;  the  space  between  each  row,  if  ground 
can   be    spared,    eighteen    inches,     otherwise    a    foot.    The 
ground  should  be  light    and  loamy,   and    as  little  infested 
with  white  ants  as    possible.    They  can    be    sown    at    the 
oommencement  of  the  rains,  but  the  spot  should  be  select- 
ed i^ere  the  wat-er  cannot  lodge,  and  is  easily  let  off,  which 
may  be   done  by  keeping  the  end  of  the  channel  between 
the  ridges  open.    At  this   season  plant   your    potatoes    on 
Uie  top    of   the   ridges,   and  do    not    water   them     unless 
necessary,  as    too  much   water' makes    them   run  to    stalk. 
If  your    ground  has  not  been    well  ploughed  previous    to 
the   rains    setting    in,    and    all   the    weeds    destroyed,    the 
diance  is  your  crop  will  fail ;   but  should  you     have  your 
ground  ready,   take    your  potatoes,   intended  for    seed,  and 
cat  them  into   pieces,  taking  care    that  each  slice  has    at 
least  two  eyes  in    it ;     and  as  you  cut  the    slices,    whilst 
fresh,     dip  the  cut  side  of  each  into  wood-ashes,    and  let 
them  dry  well,  which  takes    place  in  a  few  hours :  this  I 
think   prevents    the  white    ants'    attack.    Sow    each    slice 
from  nine  to    twelve  inches  apart,  and    place  by  the  side 
of  each   a   small   clove   of  garlic,   which   in  some   measure 
tends  to   prevent  the  attack  of  a  large  grub-like  caterpillar 
very  destructive  to  the  plants. 

Obs* — ^With  respect  to  the  grub,  it  is  the  larva  of  the 
black  beetle,  and  the  eggs  must  be  in  the  manure  when 
added  to  the  soil.  I  have  little  doubt  that  if  the  manure 
vas  previously  woriced  up  two  or  three  times  during  the 
hot  season  and  exposed  to  the  heat  of  the  sun,  the  eggs 
would  be  destroyed  ;  or  the  same  purpose  might  be  effect- 
ed with  a  little  fresh  lime.  I  am  certain  the  caterpillar 
does  not  travel  to  the  plant,   as  is  su 


The   finest    crops    in    the    Deccan    are     sown    from   the 
beginning    of  October  to  the  latter  end    of   December,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


572  INDIAN   DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 

'  this  last  crop  will  be  found  the  most  productive.  Fine 
crops  of  potatoes  have  been  grown  wh^e  hemp  has  been 
first  sown,  and  when  about  two  feet  high  ploughed  up 
into  the  ground.  If,  when  your  potatoes  are  about  flower- 
ingj  you  perceive  any  of  the  stalks  wither,  carefully  open 
the  earth  and  look  for  a  grub,  which  you  may  be  certain 
is  feeding  upon  it— of  course  destroy  it.  When  these 
grubs  are  very  numerous,  it  is  necessary  to  search  all  the 
drooping  plants  daily  :  the  larvK  is  brought  with  the  ma- 
nure, and  is  the  deposit  of  a  beetle — ^however,  nothing  can 
be  done  but  destroying  them.  Some  recommend  a  bag 
with  a  small  quantity  of  assafoetida  to  be  placed  in  the 
water-course,  as  a  remedy,  when  the  plants  are  being 
irrigated.  Again,  another  insect  deposits  its  egg  on  the 
stalk  of  the  plant.  In  the  rains  a  small  caterpillar  eats 
its  way  into  it  above  the  ground,  when  the  plant  imme- 
diately droops ;  the  only  remedy  is  to  remove  the  whole. 
Be  careful  at  all  seasons  to  keep  the  stalks  well  earthed  up, 
and  let  the  potatoes  have  a  moderate  supply  of  water — 
of  course  the  season  must  be  your  guide.  I,  one  year, 
raised  a  very  fine  crop  of  potatoes  during  the  rains,  by 
sowing  them  on  ridges,  and  only*  watered  them  at  first 
in  consequence  of  want  of  rain ;  they  were  sown  in  the 
beginning  of  July,  and  a  few  taken  up  in  September 
(the  latter  end).  Some  of  the  potatoes  weighed  from 
five  to  seven  ounces,  and  were  equal  to  any  I  have  seen 
grown  on  the  hills. 


In  the  latter  end  of  August,  by  way  of  experiment 
I  took  off  shoots  from  the  lower  end  of  the  stalks,  when 
they  were  abundant,  and  planted  them  in  rows,  the  same 
distance  as  for  seed ;  and  in  November,  on  taking  tban» 
up,  I  found  four  or  five  large  potatoes  produced  by  each 
stalk,  the  size  of  a  duck  egg.  This  plan  I  strongly 
recommended  to  those  persons  who  may  not  be  able  to  get 
fresh  seed  after  the  rains.  I  did  not  find  that  the  rows  of 
potatoes  from  which   the   slips    were  taken  produced    fewer 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANB  OOOKEBT.  573 

potatoes  in  consequence^  as  I  weighed  the  whole  and  kept 
a  memorandum  for  mj  journal. 

Pumpkin.  Hind,  Kuddoo— Rbd  and  Whitb. — This  vege- 
table grows  in  great  abundance  in  all  parts  of  the  Deccan. 
It  is  generally  sown  at  the  commencement  of  the  rains 
and  requires  no  particular  care ;  the  soil  should  be  Ught  and 
good.  When  young,  about  the  size  of  a  goose  egg,  if  cut 
and  boiled,  it  will  be  found  to  resemble  the  artichoke- 
bottom  dressed  in  the   same  way. 

PuasLANE.  FoBTULACA  Satiya.  Hind.  Choolbe*— Bound 
stem,  fleshy  leaves,  and  slightly^  acid.  It  is  used  as  an 
ingredient  in  salads.  It  is  reared  by  seeds  sown  at  the 
commencement  of  the  rains,   and  will  thrive   in  any  soil. 

Badish.  Hind.  Moollbe.— This  vegelable  may  be  sown 
at  the  commencement  of  the  rains,  either  in  beds  broad- 
cast, or  on  ridges  of  beds  where  other  vegetables  have 
been  planted.  I  prefer  the  ridges  in  the  rainy  season, 
as  I  think  they  grow  better.  You  may  continue  to  sow 
them  until  February.  The  turnip-radishes  are  of  various 
colours — ^white,  red,  Spanish  black,  and  purple;  also  long 
white,  red,  and  purple.  The  seeds  should  be  trodden  in, 
or  beaten  down,  and  then  a  good  watering  given  to  them. 
When  about  three  inches  high,  they  must  be  carefully 
thinned,  leaving  at  least  a  space  of  five  fingers'  breadth 
between  each  plant.  They  take  from  three  to  five  weeks 
to  come  to  perfection,  and  require  a  good  share  of  water- 
ing. The  seed  pods  are  often  used  for  pickles  when 
green. 

Rosemary.— This  plant  is  an  evergreen,  and  highly  aro- 
matic,  and  grown  precisely  the  same  as  lavender. 

Saoe.-^A  perennial,  native  of  the  South  of  Europe; 
it  grows  in  all  the  gardens,  and  is  propagated  by  seeds, 
layers,  and  slips,  without  any  di£Bculty.  It  is  used  for 
seasoning. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


574  INDIAN    DOMIsnC   ECONOMY 

SooRZBNOKA  AND  Salsh T.^ — This  is  a  long  white  nulky- 
juiced  root.  Grows  without  any  difficulty  after  the  rams. 
It  is  au  annual  from  the  South  of  Europe.  It  should  be 
sown  either  in  beds,  broad-cast^  or  planted  out  in  rows 
at  a  distance  of  a  foot  apart.  The  root  when  boiled  and 
dressed  is  rather  a  delicate  vegetable.  It  comes  to  per- 
fection in  three  or  four   months. 

Shallot.  Hind.  Gundhund. — Propagated  the  same  as 
the  chive. 

Spinaos.— The  produce  of  what  country  unknown.  It 
may  be  sown  in  the  rains,  but  it  succeeds  best  in  the  cold 
season;  it  should  be  sown  in  lines  a  foot  apart,  or  in 
beds,  broad-cast,  lightly  covered  over.  It  requires  a  mo- 
derate share  of  irrigation.  The  native  vegetable^  called 
Seo  Polloky  when  boiled  and  dressed,  very  much  resembles 
it. 

Spinage,  New  Zealand— Is  a  hardy  annual,  with  fleshy 
leaves  and  numerous  branches.  As  a  spinage  it  is  as  valu- 
able as  the  Orache.  If  watered  f  grows  freely,  and  pro- 
duces leaves  in  the  hottest  weather. 

Thyme,  Thymus  Vulgaris.  Hind.  Ebpab.— Very  deli- 
cate plant  to  rear.  Is  best  raised  from  seed,  but  it  may 
be  increased  by  slips,  and  dividing  the  root.  It  requires 
a  rich  soil,  and  the  space  of  six  inches  between  each  plant. 
Best  grown  in  pots. 

Turnips,  Annual. — ^The  produce  of  Britab.  These 
are  cultivated  in  all  parts  of  the  Deccan  at  the 
commencement  of  the  rains  and  the  cold  weather. 
They  continue  until  the  latter  end  of  February,  and  go 
to    seed    easily.    The    soil  should    be   rich    and  light,   and 


*SAUin— This  is  the  black  soonenortk,   and  requires   the  same  tareatment 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


AND     COOKERY.  575 

they  may  be  sown  broad-oast,  and  then'  transphtnted^  either 
in  rows  or  ridges,  and  a  space  of  at  least  six  fingers' 
breadth  allowed  between  each.  In  the  rains  a  small  ca- 
terpillar is  bred  on  the  leaves,  which,  if  not  removed,  will 
destroy  the  whole.*    One  species  grows  above  the  groond. 

Yeobtablb  Maruow  on  Sc^h.  Hind.  Sufpaba  Boom- 
BX). — ^Tbis  is  a  very  delicate  vegetable  of  the  gonrd  species. 
The  crooked-necked,  when  about  six  inches  long,  is  well 
flavoured,  but  soon  gets  hard  and  stringy.  The  pear-shap- 
ed is  the  best  of  any,  but  must  be    dressed  when  young. 

Propagation  only  by  seed,  and  the  plants  should  never 
be  removed,  but  remain  where  sown,  only  thinning  the 
weakly  ones.  The  soil  should  be  a  rich  loam,  the  same 
18  for  cucumbers.  Train  the  plants  on  sticks.  It  is  often 
necessary  to  fertilize  the  female  blossoms,  by  approaching 
the  anthers  of  the  male    flower  when  charged  with  pollen. 

Watbb  Cress. — A  native  of  Great  Britain.  Is  generally 
raised  from  slips.  It  thrives  best  in  a  running  stream,  and 
is  to  be  had  all  the  yeai^  round.  It  is  grown  from  seed  in 
beds  near  a  water-course,  and  the  supply  may  be  kept  up 
for  any  length  of  time.  A  small  black  caterpillar  is  very 
destructive  to  it;  the  only  remedy  is  flooding  the  plants 
for  a  short  time. 


NATIVE  VEGETABLES,  GREENS,   SOOTS, 
LEGUMES,   ETC. 

Adrttk. — Zingiber  Ofi&cinale. — Ginger.  It  is  a  native  of 
India,  and  is  sown  at  the  commencement  of  the  rains  in 
beds  of  about  six  feet  square,  and  in  a  rich  cultivated  soil. 

*  There  Me  WTcnl  Tirietiw^wlute^  jdhnr,  led,  Ik. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


676  INDIAN   OOHBSTIC     ECONOMY 

The  planting  consists  in  dividing  part  of  the  green  root, 
which  the  natives  first  soak  in  a  mixture  of  cow-dung  and 
water;  it  is  then  planted  about  two  inches  deep  and  about 
one  foot  apart.  It  requires  a  great  deal  of  water,  and  to 
be  kept  dear  of  weeds.  When  the  stalks  dry,  the  ginger 
may  be  taken  up,  although  it  is  sometimes  left  in  the  ground 
for  a  couple  of  years.  It  is  better  for  remaining  twelve 
months,  and  must   be  watered  during  the  dry  season. 

Ajmood. — Apium  Petroselinum. — ^Parsley.    See  Fartley. 

Ajowan. — Ligusticum  Ajowan. — Lovage.  This  phmt  is 
grown  by  the  native  gardeners  for  the  seed  only,  which, 
from  its  highly  aromatic  property,  is  used  for  culinary  and 
medicinal  purposes.  Propagated  by  seed  and  grown  in 
square  beds ;  the  seed  is  sown  in  September  and  October, 
and  sold  at  five  pice  the  seer. 

Aloo. — Solanum  Tuberosum. — See  Potatoe. 

ANASPHUL.^-^Illicium  Anisatum. — Star  Anise.  Is  brought 
chiefly  to  India  from  China,  am  is  used  for  flavouring 
native   dishes. 

Umbarbe  kbb  Bhajeb.— Hibiscus  Cannabinus. — Hemp- 
leaved  Hibiscus.  This  is  an  erect  growing  plant,  of  the 
height  of  about  four  feet.  It  is  slightly  prickled  over  the 
stem.  The  leaves  have  an  add  taste,  and  are  used  as 
a  pot*herb. 

There  is  a  dark  purplish  coloured  species,  the  leaves  of 
which  are  used  for  a  similar  purpose ;  they  are  both  grown 
all  the  year  round,  and  sold  at  five  seers  for  one  pice. 

Propagated  by  seed,  and  grown  in  any  common  garden 
soil. 

Baujeros. — Holcus  spicatus.  This  is  a  very  common  grain^ 
not  so  heating  as  Jewaree^  and  may  be  made    into  cakes 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND     COOKEKY.  577 

or  porridge.    Sown  in   fields    at  the   commencement   of  the 
rains. 

Bakla  Zun. — Phaseolus  Vulgaris.— Kidney  Bean,  dwarf. 
See  Beans. 

Bakla. — Vicia  Faba. — Garden  Bean.  This  is  cultivated 
at  the   same  season  and  manner  as  the  kidney. 

Bhang-u-Gunduna. — Allium  Tuberosum* — Indian  Chive. 
This  very  much  resembles  the  English  Chive;  it  is  grown 
in  square  beds  or  rows,  and  should  be  planted  at  the  close 
of  the  rains ;  it  is  easy  of  culture  either  by  slips  or  dividing 
the  roots ;  it  should  be  set  about  twelve  inches  apart, 
and  when  the  bunches  have  increased  to  a  large  size,  must 
be  again  divided. 

It  is   used  in  various  ways  for  the  table. 

Bheendee. — Hibiscus  Esculentus.— Bandaky.  This  plant 
is  very  common ;  the  long  capsules,  when  green,  are  used  for 
various  purposes,  either  boiled  whole  and  eaten  sliced  or 
put  into  soup  or  curries;  the  inside  is  of  a  slimy  consis- 
tency, but,  when  dressed,  not  unpleasant.  The  seed  is  some- 
times laid  upon  toast  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Another 
species,  the  Okro,  has  a  smaller  capsule  which  grows  up- 
right, the  seeds  when  rubbed  between  the  fingers  have  a 
strong  scent  of  musk ;  the  Arabs  flavour  their  cofi'ee  with  it. 

Boodunk.— Mentha  Pulegium. — Penny  Royal.  Cultivated 
the  same  as  thyme. 

BooEUNK.  Kala— Ocymum  Basilicum#— Sweet  Basil. 
Grows  common  in  native  gardens;  the  seeds  are  used 
medicinally,  kn  infusion  being  considered   very  cooling. 

BooTA.— Zea  Mays. — Maize.  Grown  at  the  commence- 
ment  of  the  rains,  and  sown  in  beds  or  in  the  common  fields  ; 
it  requires  little  care ;  the  heads  are  either  boiled  or  roasted 

A3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


&78  INDIAN   BOHlGfiTlC  ECONOMY 

before  eaten.    The  ground  should  be  well  manured   before 
the  seed  is  sown. 

B&iNiALs,  OB  BiNiouN.^-^bnum  Melongena*— Egg  plant. 
There  are  several  varieties  of  this  plant — a  large  round- 
shaped  fruit,  both  purple  and  white;  another,  white,  thin 
and  long;  a  smaller  species  again,  pear-shaped,  red  and 
purpled  striped ;  and  one  seldom  exceeding  the  size  of  an 
egg.  They  are  all  dressed  alike,  and  used  both  in  curries 
and   other  native  dishes. 

Propagation. — By  seed,  at  the  eommencement  of  tbe  rains. 
The  young  plants  are  placed  at  about  eighteen  inches  apaii» 
and  require  watering  every  third  or  fourth  day;  they  are 
sold  from  one  to  three  pice  a  seer. 

BuKUM.— Coesalpinift  Sappan. — Narrow-leafed  Brasiletto. 
Tliis  is  a  common  shrub  in  most  parts  of  India ;  the  seed 
is  used  for  colouring  milk,  and  the  wood  as  a  red  dye. 

BuLLUR. — ^Var:  of  the  Dolichos  Lablab. — Small  Bean. 
This  is  a  shrubby  plant,  bearingf  a  small  bean,  sown  in 
June  and  ripe  in  October ;  it  is  boiled  plain  and  eaten  or 
put  into  curries;  the  natives  also  give  it  to  cattle. 

BuNBUBBUTTBE.— Phaseolus  Lunatus. — ^Duffin  bean.  Sown 
in  rows  the  same  as  other  beans,  but  with  a  much  greater 
space  between;  they  require  very  strong  sticks  for  support, 
and  are  ready  in  about  six  months.  No  very  particular 
care  is   necessary. 

BuRRiB  ToovAR.— Cytisus  Cajan. — Large  Dhall.  This  is 
sown  in  fields  at  the  commencement  of  the  rains  in  June, 
and  sometimes  much  later;  it  is  ripe  in  December.  The 
seeds  are  sometimes  ground  into  flour  or  split  like  dry 
peas;  for  the  latter  they  are  an  excellent  substitute.  There 
are  several  varieties^  which  sell  from  80  to  40  seers  for 
the  rupee. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  C0OKCRY«  579 

BuTANSB. — ^Fisum  SatiTom.-^Common  Pea.  The  natire 
coantiy  pea  is  sown  .after  the  rains  ip  drills^  and  varies 
in  price  according  to  the  quality;  when  green  they  are 
tolerable  as  a  vegetable,  but  are  best  in  soup.  Procura- 
ble in  December  and  January. 

Ghbbna. — ^Cicet  Arietinum. — Chick  Pea  or  Gram.  Grown 
in  fields  and  sown  after  the  rains.    Price  various. 

Ghoolaek. — Amaranthus  PoIygamus> — Common  Bajee« 
Much  cultivated  by  the  natives.  It  is  sown  bitiad-cast  in 
beds  from  June  to  March.  The  leaves  are  sold  in  the 
bazaar  at  one  pice  the  seer.  Used  as  greens,  ahd  also 
in   curries. 

Chuchoonda. — ^Tricosanthes  Anguina. — ^The  snake  Gk>urd. 
Thia  is  sown  in  the  rains  and  grown  generaUy  over  a  high 
pandaly  that  the  fruit  may  have  space  to  hang  down 
from;  a  small  stone  or  weight  is  then  tied  to  the  end  to 
increase  its  length,  which  varies  from  a  foot  and  a  half  to 
three'  feet  or  more.  Baw,  it  resembles  a  cucumber  in 
flavour,   but  is   better  dressed  in  a  stew  or  curry. 

Ch'hota  Kul^a. — ^Borago  Indica. — Indian  Borage.  This 
is   a  common   plant,  and  grows   wild  in  many  parts. 

Chotib  Sayme  KB  PuLLiB — Dolichos  Lablab. — ^Native 
Bean.  This  is  a  smaller  species  of  the  Dolichos  Lablab; 
the  legume  and  seeds  are  both  eaten;  it  is  sown  in  the 
rains,   and  sells  from  one  pice  to  two  a  seer. 

Choolaeb. — Spinacea  Tetrandra. — ^This  is  a  common 
sort  of  native,  greens,  and,  when  boiled,  resembles  spinach; 
it  is  procurable  nearly  all  the  year  round.  • 

Chookeh. — Bumex  Vesicarius. — Sorrel.  This  is  also  of 
common  native  growth,  and  where  water  is  abundant  may  be 
had  for  eight  months  in  the  year ;  it  is  sown  in  drills  or 
on  the  edges  around     other    beds;  the    leaves  are  sold  in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


580  INDIAN    DOMXSfTiC  ECQNOMT 

bandies  from  one  to  two  pice  a  seer.    There  is  also   ano- 
ther species  called  the  Indian  Sed  S(»rrel. 

CfiucKooNOA. — Beta  Yo^piris.— Common  Beet.  This  is 
the  common  Beet. 

Choopres  Aloo. — ^Tnbers  roundish,  very  lai^  white, 
inside,  and  much  esteemed;  the  skin  thin  and  smootk 
like  a  potatoe.  The  stems  require  strong  sticks  to  creep 
over;  it  bears  a  large  roundish. fruit,  like  an  oak-apple 
in  appearance,  which  is  also  edible. 

DAiiCHEBNEE.*-Lauras  Cinnamomum. — Cinnamon.  This 
is  brought  from  Ceylon   and  the  Spice  Islands. 

Bhan,  oe  Choul.— Oryza  Sativa. — ^Kce — ^is  so  common 
as  not  to  need  any  description   here. 

DHUNEEA.-^Goriandram  Sativum. — Coriander  seed.  This 
is  also  imported. 

Dill  Pusstjnp. — Cucurbita  Lagenaria.— Small  Pumpkin. 
This  is  a  small  species  of  round  squash  or  gourd,  and  is 
grown  in  the  bed  of  rivers  with  the  melons;  it  much 
resembles,  when  dressed,  the  vegetable  marrow,  and  is 
thought   by   some   to   be  even  superior. 

Eevie. — Caladum  Esculentum, — XJrvie,  This  is  a  small 
bulbous  root  sown  from  March  to  July,  in  rows  or  beds, 
mostly  along  a  water  course  where  ginger  is  planted.  It 
requires  much  water,  and  takes  from  six  to  seven  months 
to  ripen.  When  boiled  and  then  roasted  it  is  very  whole- 
some, and  somewhat  resembles  a  yam  in  taste;  the 
natives  also  put  it  into  curries, 

Gajtte.— Daucus  Hortensis.— Carrot.  Elsewhere  describ-* 
ed. 

GuNDUNA.-^ Allium  Porum. — ^Leek.  Also  elsewhere  de-» 
scribed. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  581 

GuRANTo  Aloo. — Dioscorea  Rubella.— Bed  Sweet  Yam. 
This  is  oblong  and  red  skinned,  root  tubercJns^  deeply 
tinged  with  red  under  the  skin,  but  the  colour  does  not 
penetrate  deep;  they  are  sometimes  as  much  as  three 
feet  long  in   a   rich  light    soil. 

GuRANT  Aloo  Lal. — Dioscorea  Purpurea. — ^Purple  Yam. 
Boot  oblong;  throughout  of  a  lighter  or  dark  purple,  but 
always  considerably  deep  in  tinge.  This  colour  is  perma- 
nent. 

Zemhy  Kund. — Datro  Purpurea. — ^Another  species.  Tu- 
bers subrotund,  purple  throughout,  very  large,  of  an  irre- 
gular, smooth,  roundish  shape,  and  growing  near  the  sur- 
face, so  as  to  appear  in  dry  weather  through  the  cracks 
they   make  by  raising    the  soil   over  them. 

HuLDBE. — Amomum  Curcuma* — ^Turmeric.  There  are 
four  species  of  this  plant,  one  a  small  and  very  fine  sort; 
the  other  longer  and  coarse ;  the  third,  the  Ambie,  used  chiefiy 
as  medicine ;  the  fourth  a  wild  species.  That  which  is 
cultivated  for  domestic  culinary  purposes  is  sown  in  beds 
like  ginger,  and  when  ripe  in  twelve  months,  taken  up 
and  dried.  It  is  extensively  cultivated  in  mos^  parts  of 
India,  and  sells,  green,  from  eight  to  eighteen  seers  the 
rupee. 

HuLEEM. — Arabfs  Chincnsis.— Cress.     Described   elsewhere. 

Illachee. — Elettaria  Cardamum. — Cardamon.  This  spice 
is  also  imported. 

Ipar. — Thymus  Vulgaris.— Thyme.  Elsewhere  describ- 
ed. 

Jaworie. — Holcus  Saccharatus.  Grown  in  fields  and 
sown  during  the  rains;  it  is  the  common  food  of  the  poor-* 
er  classes,  made  when    ground  into  cakes. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


582  INDIAN   DOMESTIC    EOOKOMT 

Kala  Kustoorte. — Hibiscus  Abeimosclias.^Musk  Okto. 
See   BAeendee. 

Ealee  Seem. — Stizolobiom  Aitissimnm. — Assam  Bean* 
This  bean  is  grown  like  most  others^  and  maj  be  first 
sown  at  the  commencement  of  the  rains  and  continued 
during  the  cold  season. 

Kalee  Tulsee. — Ocymum  Sanctum. — Basil.  This  is 
grown  in  almost  every  native  garden,  and  is  used  for  va- 
rious purposes  by  Europeans,  for  flavouring  sauces,  in 
wine  or  vinegar. 

KAtEE  MuRCHEy.— Piper  Nigrum.— Black  Pepper.  Al- 
though principally  the  produce  of  the  Eastern  islands,  it  is 
grown  of  a  superior  quality  in  the  Malabar  coast.  The 
root  is  a  tonic  and    cordial. 

Kam  Aloo. — Dioscorea  Alata.— ^Winged  Yam.  Tubers 
oblong,  brown  on  the  surface,  internally  white  of  a  great 
size.  Besides  the  tubers  the  proper  roots  of  all  those 
plants  are  fibrous,  springing  chiefly  from  and  about  the 
union  of  the  stems  with  the  tubers,  and  spreading  in 
every    direction. 

Kheeka.— Cucumis  Sativus. — Cucumber,  common.  See 
Cucumber. 

Khush  Khush* — ^Papaver  Somniferum, — Poppy  Seed. 
This  is  simply  the  seed  of  the  poppy,  and  used  in  confec- 
tionery,  as  well  to   make   oil. 

EooLEB  Begun. — Soknum  Longum.  Egg  Plant,  cylin- 
drical.   See  BrinjcU* 

EuDDOo.— Cucurbita  Lagenaria. — ^Bottle  Gourd.  This  is 
grown  at  the  commencement  of  the  rains  ;  a  good  soil  is 
all  that  is  necessary,  requiring  no   further  care. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKX&T.  582 

KuKRUS. — Cttcumis  Utilissimas. —Green  Cucumber.  A 
large,  coarse  kind  of  cucumber^  sown  with  the  melons 
and  other  fruit  in  the   beds  of  rivers. 

KuLAEB.— Phaseolus  Trilobus^— Threc-lobed  Bean,  Sown 
like  other  native   beans. 

EuLMBE  Sag. — ^Convohulua  Repens*--Creeping  Bind  Weed. 
This  grows   wild;   the  leaves   are   eaten   by   the  natives. 

KuLT^HEK.— Doliohos  Biflorus.— Two-flowercd  Bean.  This 
is  grown  in  fields  after  the  rains,  and  chiefly  used  for  cat- 
tle; when  given  to  horses  it  must  first  be  boiled;  they 
soon  become  very  fond  of  it,  and  keep  in  as  good  condi- 
tion  as  upon   any   other  grain. 

XuEBOOZAH. — Cacumis   Molo:    See  Melon. 

KuREBLA. — ^Momordica  Charantia. — Bitter  hairy  Gourd. 
This  is  a  creeper,  sown  at  the  commencement  of  the  rains, 
and  may  be  continued  during  the  cold  season ;  it  is  a 
bitter  fruit,  very  rough  skinned,  and  from  four  to  five 
inches  long;  the  edges  have  a  very  wrinkled  appearance; 
when  ripe  it  is  of  a  beautiful  deep  red  and  yellow.  The 
natives  fry  and  eat  them,  but  they  are  principally  used 
in  curries;  they  require  to  be  soaked  in  salt  and  water 
before  dressing.    They  sell  from   one   to  two   pice  a    seer. 

KuBsuKBULKE  FuLUE. — Dolichos  Luuatus.— DufBji  Bean. 
This  is  a  veiy  fine  sort  of  a  large  bean,  and  when  dressed 
resembles  the  Windsor;  it  is  grown  like  all  other  beans 
that  require   sticks  for  support. 

Lal  Sao.— Amarantus  Giganticus.— Spinach.  The  leaves 
of  this  plant  are  eaten  as  a  spinach;  it  is  generally  sown 
broad-cast,  and  procurable  all  the  year  round. 

LooBBA. — ^Dolichos  8inensis**-Asparagus  bean.  This  bean 
is  sown  at  the  commencement  of  the  rains;   it  has  a  very 


Digitized  by 


Google 


584  INDIAN    DOMESTIC    ECONOMY 

long  and  a  slender  pod,  and  is   boiled  and  eaten   as   French 
beans;  the   bean  itself  is  smaU. 

LussBN.— AlUum   Sativum. — Garlic.   See   Garlic. 

« 

Matkeb  Bhajeb. — Amarantus  Oleraceous. — Greens.  There 
are  two  sorts  of  these  common  greens  cultivated  in  all 
native  gardens;  the  leaves  are  eaten  as  spinach  or  put 
into   curries. 

Meet'hbe* — ^Trigonella.  Poenum  Groecum. — ^Fenugreek. 
This  is  a  small  annual,  commonly  cultivated  daring  the 
cold  season.  The  greens  are  used  by  the  natives,  and  the 
seed  in  curries.    It  is  sown  like   all  other  common  greens. 

Mebt'heb  Kudoo. — Cucurbita  Peopo. — Sweet  Pumpkin. 
This  is  grown  at  the  same  time-  as  all  the  other  species,  and 
if  hung  up  in  a  dry  place  is  an  excellent  store  vegetable^ 
keeping  for  several  months. 

MooNG  Arood.— Phaseolus  Mongo. — Green  gram.  This 
is  chiefly  grown  in  the  upper  parts  of  Hindoostan ;  it  vi 
eaten  by  the   natives   dressed  in  various  ways. 

MooNQ  Fhulbe.— Arachis  Hypogseea — Earth-nut.  This 
is  grown  under  ground,  the  legumes  of  which  contain  the 
nuts;  they  are  small  and  white,  and  require  to  be  roast- 
ed before  eaten;   they   are   not  in  much  esteem. 

MuKHUM  Seem. — ^Dolichos  Gladiatus.— Sabre  Bean.  This 
is  a  large  kind  of  bean,  sown  at  the  same  time  as  others ; 
it  requires  strong  support  to  run  over.  The  beans  are 
dressed  as   French  beans,   but  are   not  so  tender. 

Mukchaee. — Capsicum  Frutescens. — Capsicum.  See  Cap- 
sicum. 

MuTKE  KB  PtJLLiE. — Dolichos  Eabseformis. — Small  Sabre 
Bean,    This  is  grown  the  same   as  the  larger  sort. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERT.  585 

NuBCHA. — Corchortts  Olitorios. — Sag  Greens.  This  kind  of 
greens  is  comtnon  amongst  the  natives;  it  is  an  erect  grow- 
ing plants  and  flowers   at  the  close  of  the  rains. 

Faluk  Sag. — Becta  Bengalinenses. — Bengal  Beet.  The 
leaves  only  of  this  'vegetable  are  eaten;  when  boiled  it 
resembles  spinach  in  flavonr.  The  roots  are  tough  and 
stringy.  It  may  be  sown  in  beds  or  rows.  The  leaves 
shoot  out   again  after  being  cnt   down. 

Pan.— Rper  Betel. — Betel  Pepper.  This  is  cultivated  in 
spots  by  itself;  it  requires  much  water  and  care,  and  is 
too  well  known  to  need  any  further  description  here.  The 
leaves  are  chewed   raw. 

Pkbaj. — ^Allium  Gepa.— Onion.  See  Onions. 

P«AZ. — ^Allium  Ascalonicum. — Shallot.  This  is  cultiv- 
ated in  a  light  rich  soil^  and  propagated  by  dividing  the 
clustered  roots;  it  should  be  sown  in  beds  at  the  com- 
mencement of  the  rains,  and  will  give  a  crop  during  the 
cold  weather* 

Pendaloo. — ^Dioscorea  Aculeata. — ^The  small  Yam.  This 
is  a  very  valuable  and  delicate  root,  somewhat  resembling 
the  sweet  potatoe  in  appearance;  tubers  of  an  oval  form 
and   very  white,  generidly  weighing   about    two    pounds. 

Phoot.— Cucumis  Momordica. — Field  Cucumber.  A  wild 
species  of  cucumber  sown  generally  in  the  fields  amongst 
Jaworie,  and  is  something  between  the  melon  and  cucutn-> 
her;  it  keeps  for  a  long  time  if  not  too  ripe,  and  would 
be   valuable  as  a  store  vegetable  for  sea. 

PiPiLii. — Pipen  Longum.— Long  Pepper.  This  is  a 
creeper  of  easy  culture,  and  should  be  trained  up  poles,  or 
have  strong  sticks  to  grow  upon.  It  is  common  in  all 
parts  of  India. 


PooDENEH.-*Menth(B    Yerticulata.— -Mint.    See    Mint. 

B  3 

Digitized  by 


Google 


586  INDIAN  DOHSSnC  800NOHT 

Fob. — ^Basella  Alba  et  Bubra.*-Jlalabar  Nightshade; 
these  are  twiniAg,  succulent  plants  with  smooth  flesby 
leaves;  grow  veiy  rapidly,,  and  are  generally  ^^ultivated  as 
a  spinach.  There  are  two  sorts,  the  leaves  only  eaten. 

PuiATGL. — ^Trichosanthi  Dioica. — ^Dioceous  Snake  Gburd. 
This  is  one  of  the  snake  gourd  species,  of  a  small  descrip- 
tion, the  size  of  an  egg;  the  seed  is  sown  in  the  cold 
season,  and  yields  fruit  from  March  to  Sqitember,  much 
used  in  curries. 

PuLPUL. — Myrtus  Pimenta^—AUspice.    This  is  imported. 

Bai. — Sinapis  TrSocularis. — Mustard.    See   Miuiard. 

Salbea.— Salvia  Officinalis.— Sage.    See  Sage. 

Shulguh.— Brasica  Bapa.— ^Turnip.    See  Tnrmp. 

Sou9. — A^ethum  Panmorium. — Sweet  Fennek     See  Fennel. 

Satub  KB  PuLLiB.— Dolichos  Lablab.— Native  Bean. 
These  beans  are  sown  in  the  fields  like  aU  others  in  rows, 
and  are  eaten  both  boiled  or  put  into  curries. 

Saym»  KB  PtJLLiB  Lal. — DoUchos  Lablab  Bub. — Native 
Bean,  red.  This  bean  when  young,  is  eaten  pod  and  all; 
when  full  grown,  the  seeds  only  are  used.  It  is  about 
five  inches  long,  and  has  its  name  from  the  reddish  colour 
of  its  edges. 

Soot'hnbb. — ^Dioscorea  Pasiculata^— -Yam.  Consists  of 
many  tubers,  about  the  siee  and  shape  of  an  egg.  They 
are  covered  with  a  light  coloured  thin  skin;  intemaUy 
ihey  are  white.  They  are  not  only  eaten,  but  starch  is 
made  from  the  roots. 

SuKUK  KuND.— Convolvulus  Batata.  Sweet  Potatoe.  A 
sweet-tasted  nutritious  root,  of  which  there  are  two  sorts, 
red  and  white.  The  tubers  are  long^  and,  when  boiled 
or  roasted,   very    wholesome.   They   are  sown   precisely  in 


! 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY.  587 

the  8ame  maimer  as  a  potatoe^  after  the  hot  season^  and 
are  fit  to  be  taken  up  in  six  months*  They  sell  from 
two  to  four  piee  a  seer. 

SuMD  TuLSEE.— Ocyman  Alba.— White  ftwil,  Chieftj 
grown  in  native  gardens* 

SuFURA  EooKRA. — Cttcurbitis  Ovifera. — ^Vegetable  Marrow. 
Bee  Vegetable  Marrow. 

TuBBOoz. — Cnenrbita  CSitmllus. — Water  Melon.  This  is 
grown  in  the  beds  of  rivers  in  the  hot  season,  but  may  be 
cultivated  in  gardens  during  the  rains. 

Zeera. — Cnminum  Cyminum. — Cummin  Seed;  black  and 
white.  This  is  grown  in  beds  the  same  as  the  Coriander ; 
the  seeds  are  used  for  seasoning  curries.  Much  is  brought 
fnnn  China  and  the  Persian  Oulph. 

ZuRUMBAD. — Curcuma  Zenunbit. — Zeodary;  4  sorts*  8ise 
Hutdee. 


FEUIT  TBEES,  ANiy  THEIE  CULTIVATION, 

Almond,  Persian.— Amygdalis  Communis*  Hind.  Ba- 
dam.— This  tree  never  bears  fruit,  and  is  only  grown  as 
an  exotic:  it  might  be  used  as  stocks  for  the  peach,, 
plum,    &c. 

Alligator  Pear* — Laurus  Persea. — ^This  tree  grows  to  a 
large  size.  The  wood  is  very  brittle,  and  requires  much 
water.  It  bears  fruit  during  the  rains,  the  size  of  a  bak- 
ing pear,  but  to  describe  it  more  accurately  would  be  to 
say  that  it  is  from  six  to  eight  inches  long,  and*  in  the 
thickest  part  about  three  inches  in  diameter.  It  is  called 
Subaltern's  butter.  The  outside  has  a  dark  green  skin, 
rather  thin:  and  inside  a  soft  whitish  pulp>  which  may 
easily   be  divided  with  a    spoon.    The   seed  is  about    the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


588  INDIAN   IX>ME8nC    ECONOMY. 

size  of  a  pigeon's  egg,  and  will  grow  if  planted  immedi- 
ately. The  flavor  of  the  palp  is*8weet  and  creamy,  and 
perhaps  the  name  of  Subaltern's  batter  is  derived  from 
this  particular  taste  and  appearance.  The  natives  do  not 
seem  fond  of  it. 

Apple,  English.— Pyrus  Mala. — N.  8eyb  or  Seeoo. — In 
the  Deccan  I  have  met  with  two  sorts,  like  the  brown 
russet,  and  a  yellow  striped  pippin.  These  trees  only  bear 
but  once  a  year,  and  require  the  same  treatment  as  the 
Persian  apple.  They  should  have  their  roots  open  once, 
towards  the  end  of  October.  The  buds  grafted  on  the 
Persian  stock   take  readily. 

Oba. — ^Be  careful  that  the  Borer  (a  species  of  caterpillar) 
does  not  get  into  the  stem  or  branches,  as  it  is  very  de- 
structive to  all  fruit-bearing  trees  of  the  apple  and  plum 
kind;  it  is  found  both  in  the  woody  part  of  the  tree 
as  well  as  in  the  bark,  eventually  destroying  the  branch 
or  even  the  tree  itself;  its  presence  may  be  known  by  a 
quantity  of  dry  sawdust-like  appearance  hanging  by  light 
filaments  from  the  entrance  made  by  the  insect.  To  de- 
stroy it.  Make  an  infusion  of  assafcntida,  and  after 
removing  the  dirt  from  the  entrance  of  the  hole,  pour 
some  into  it;  have  ready  a  little  dough,  made  with  flour 
and  water,  and  stick  a  bit  the  size  of  a  pigeon's  e^  over 
the  hole,  and  let  it  remain, — in  the  course  of  an  hour  or 
so  you  will  find  the  caterpillar  imbedded  in  it.  Or  else 
take  a  little  vinegar  and  water  equal  parts,  and  pour  into 
the  hole,  watch  for  a  minute  or  two  and  as  soon  as  the 
insect  begins  to  move,  a  small  bubble  will  be  seen  on  the 
mixture,  and  the  black  horny  head  slowly  appearing  at 
the  entrance  of  the  hole,  then  with  any  sharp  pointed 
instrument — a  pin  or  long  thorn  will  do,  run  it  through 
the  neck,   and  give  the  insect  a  sharp  twist  out. 

Apple,  Persian,  ob   Comhon. — ^The  two  sorts   of  apples 
commonly  found  in  most    Native  gardens  in  the    Deccan, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


A^D    COOKERY.  589 

are  said  to  have  been  first  introdaced  from  Persia.  They 
are  of  a  small  description:  one,  street  and  luscioos,  grows 
in  bunches ;  the  other,  which  is  larger,  has  a  rough  taste, 
and  is  better  adapted  for  tarts.  They  may  be  propagat- 
ed by  layers,   suckers,  and  even  cuttings. 

The  young  plant  should  never  be  allowed  to  throw  out 
branches  at  less  than  two  or  three  feet  from  the  ground : 
all  the  buds  beneath  must  be  rubbed  off.  Never  plant 
them  closer  than  from  nine  or  twelve  feet  to  each  other, 
and  if  you  have  sufficient  ground,  keep  them  separate 
from  other  trees,  so  that  you  can  either  winter  or  water 
them  as  you  wish.  Remove  all  suckers  round  the  stem 
of  the  tree,  or  from  the  roots  (unless  required  for  stocks), 
when  cut  them  clean  off  with  a  sharp  knife.  The  trees 
may  be  opened  immediately  after  the  rains,  if  not  in  blossom. 
Pluck  off  all  the  leaves  carefully,  and  beware,  in  so  doing,* 
that  the  blossom  buds  are  not  injured,  which  native  Mal- 
lys,  in  the  careless  manner  of  stripping  the  leaves,  are  very 
apt  to  do; — then  prune  the  tree.  As  soon  as  the  blossom 
appears  set,  put  plenty  of  old  rich  manure  to  it,  and  water 
well  every  third  day,  until  the  fruit  is  nearly  ripe.  If 
you  continue  watering  after  this,  it  makes  the  fruit  mealy 
and  insipid.  When  the  fruit  is  all  gathered,  cease  to 
water  the  tree,  and  as  soon  as  the  leaves  turn  brown 
and  dry,  which  will  be  in  the  course  of  a  month,  then  open 
the  roots  for  two  or  three  days,  cover  with  manure  again, 
and  water  well  as  before,  when  you  will  probably  get  a 
second  crop  in   April  or  May. 

Apricot. — ^Prunus  Arminiaca. — This  tree  I  have  seen  grow 
to  a  large  size  in  a  garden  at  Aurungabad.  It  blossomed 
at  the  same  time  with  the  peach,  from  January  to  March. 
The  fruit  formed  and  grew  to  the  size  of  a  common  mar- 
ble, after  which  it  dropped  off.  Every  care  was  taken  to 
prevent  this,  but  all  attempts  were  useless;  and  I  believe 
now  the  trees  are  dead.  I  made  many  efforts  to  get  buds 
to   take  on  peach  and  aknond  trees,  but  did  not  succeed. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


590  INDIAN   DOICSSTIG    ECONOMY. 

I  also  tried  by  approach  with  no  better  result.  It  grovs 
veil  on  the  first  range  of  the  Himalayahs.  Treatment— 
the  same  as  the  peach. 

Berbebkt. — ^Berberis  Asiatica. — This  tree  is  foond  in 
the  hills  of  Nepaul,  and  most  probably  on  the  Neilgher- 
ries*  I  met  with  it  first  in  Deyrah  Dhoon.  There  is  a 
large  and  small  blae-fmited  sort^  as  well  as  the  red.  I 
have  never  seen  it  in  the  Deccan.  The  trees  have  blossom- 
ed in  the  Botanical  Garden  at  Calcutta. 

Blackberry. — Bnbus  Lasiocarpus.— Now  cultivated  ge- 
nerally in  the  Deccan^  and  first  believed  to  have  been 
brought  from  the  Mysore  Hills.  It  grows  easily  from 
seed ;  a  few  of  the  ripe  fruit  rubbed  on  a  sheet  of  paper, 
and  dried  in  the  sun^  will  enable  you  to  forward  the  seed 
'to  friends  at  any  distance.  (The  same  with  the  strawberry.)^ 
The  plants  shoidd  never  be  nearer  than  four  or  five  feety 
and  may  be  cut  down  at  the  commencement  of  the  rains, 
when  they  will  throw  out  fresh  shoots,  and  bear  fruit  iir 
abundance.  As  it  requires  little  care,  and  only  an  occa- 
sional supply  of  water,  this  bramble  forms  a  very  perfect 
and  secure  hedge  to  a  kitchen  garden.  The  finest  fruit 
is  very  inferior  to  a  common  raspberry. 

BiUMBi. — ^Averrhoa  Carambola.  Bilimbi. — ^This  tree  is 
very  common,  and  bears  small  lateral  pink  flowers  during 
the  rains.  The  fruit  is  angled,  and  there  are  two  sorts'— 
sweet  and  acid ;  the  former  is  much  the  smallest  of  the 
two,  and  seldom  exceeds  a  couple  of  inches  in  length ;  the ' 
acid  sort  are  much  larger  :  they  are  both  used  for  jellies 
and  tarts.  The  tree  is  easily  produced  from  ripe  seed, 
and ^  will  grow  in  any  tolerably  good  soil.  Two  crops  dur- 
ing the  year  may  be  procured  by  watering  the  trees. 

Bread  F&urc  Tree. — Artocarpus  Indsa. — ^This  tree  is 
found  of  a  large  size  in  Bombay,  and  is  also  to  be  met 
with  in  some  few  parts  of  the  Deccan.    It  bears  a  fruit 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERY.  591 

the. size  of  a  large  orange  or  small  pumplenose,  with  a 
maricated  rind.  It  seldom  ripens  in  Bombay,  the  fruit 
falling  off  in  the  cold  season.  Like  the  jack,  it  bears 
fruit  both  on  the  branches  and  roots,  which  also  afford  a 
thick  milky  juice,  convertible  into  bird-lime.  The  fruit, 
cut  into  slices  and  fried,  has  something  the  flavor  of  a 
sweet  potatoe  dressed  in  a  similar  manner.  It  will  grow 
from  cuttings,  and  requires  a  light  soil,  with  care  and 
watering  at  first.  There  are  sev^al  species,  but  I  have 
only  met  with  one. 

Cafs  Goosbbebrt,  or  BrasiIh— Physalis  Peruviana.—- 
This  plant  grows  luxuriantly  in  a  good  soil.  The  seed 
should  be  sown  at  the  commencement  of  the  rains,  and 
planted  out  in  rows  after  they  are  about  six  inches  high, 
and  at  least  two  feet  apart,  and  at  such  a  distance 
between  as  will  enable  the  gardener  to  pass  easily  between 
each  row.  The  plants  may  be  grown  either  on  a  trellis  or 
sticks,  and  should  be  carefully  pruned.  The  young  shoots 
bear  the  finest  fruit,  and  if  carefully  attended  to,  will  bear 
almost  all  the  year  round,  and  the  fruit  will  repay  abun- 
dantly for  any  extra  care  bestowed  upon  it.  It  is  hardly 
known  to  what  a  state  of  cultivation  this  apparently 
worthless  fruit  may  be  brought,  simply  from  its  easy 
culture,  and  yet  we  have  not  a  fruit  more  useful  for  tarts, 
and  even  a  dessert,  that  I  know  of;  and  it  is  really  worth 
the  attention  of  families  to  cultivate  with  care.  It  makes 
an  excellent  jam,  or  preservcj  besides  being  a  most  whole- 
some fruit;  and,  if  carefully  attended  to,  the  size  which 
it  will  acquire  is  not  to  be  at'  first  imagined,  after  seeing 
the  common  growth  without  care  or  attention  of  the  fruit 
itself.  The  bush  should  be  every  now  and  then  careful- 
ly pruned,  cutting  out  the  old  wood,  as  the  new  shoots 
provide  the  finest   flavoured  fruit. 

Bullock's  Heart. — ^Anona  Beticulata. — N.  Bam-ploL 
-—This  tree  grows  to  a  large  size.  The  fruit  is  so  called 
from   ito   resemblance   to    the   heart   of  the   animal.     The 


Digitized  by 


Google 


592  INDUN  DOMESTIC  ECONOHY 

colour  is  a  dark  brownish  red.  When  ripe,  it  is  a  soft, 
sweetish,  pulpy  fioit,  but  has  not  the  fine  flavor  of  the 
costard  apple.  It  is  ripe  from  November  to  Jane,  and 
not  much  esteemed  by  Europeans. 

Bhebb  Fbuit. — ^Ziziphus  Jujuba. — ^This  is  a  common 
wild  fruit  tree,  and  grows  in  almost  every  jungle.  The 
fruit  is  astringent,  but  sometimes  of  a  pleasant  subacid 
flavor — eaten  chiefly  by  wild  animals,  and  the  poorer 
classes.  It  is  more  especially  cultivated  by  Mussulmans 
round  their  tombs.  The  fjfuit  is  oblong,  containing  a 
stone,  and  bears  twice  in  the  year,  the  best  crop  about 
January  :  after  this  is  done,  the  tree  is  pruned,  by  nearly 
cutting  off  all  the  smaller  branches.  A  second  crop  suc- 
ceeds on  the  new  wood  in  the  rains,  but,  from  being  full 
of  maggots,  is  not  eatable :  even  in  the  cold  weather 
very  few  of  the  fruit  are  free  from  this  insect.  Hie 
natives  pretend  that  they  have  a  remedy  which  prevents 
the  fruit  from  being  attacked,  but  I  have  never  known  it 
succeed.  The  flavor  is  somewhat  of  a  fresh  apple,  and 
when  large  and  fine  is  by  no  means  to  be  despised.  I 
have  succeeded  best  by  budding  from  a  good  tree  on  a 
common  stock  raised  from  seed.  It  wUl  bear  well  in 
two  or  three  years,  but  requires  care  and  watering  at 
first.  A  fine  gumlac  is  produced  from  this  tree ;  the 
cocoon  of  the  wild  silk-worm  is  often  found  attached  to  it. 

Cashbw-nut.  — Anacardium  Occidentale. — ^N. — Kajoo. — ^This 
tree  grows  wild,  to  a  large  size,  in  many  parts  of  the 
Deccan,  and  is  found  in  Native  gardens  as  well  as 
European.  It  is  very  ornamental  when  in  leaf,  bearing 
sweet-smelling  flowers,  succeeded  by  a  pear-shaped  fruit  of 
a  yellow  and  red  colour,  which  is  eaten  by  the  poorer 
class.  The  nut  hangs  at  the  end  of  the  fruit  outside, 
and  is  of  a  kidney  shape.  Between  a  double  shell,  cover- 
ing the  /kernel,  is  a  very  acrid  juice,  which,  if  applied  to 
the  skin,  or  inadvertently  to  the  lips,  immediately  raises 
a  blister.    The  juice  is  sometimes  used  for  marking  linen. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND   COOKERT.  593 

as  it  is  impossible  to  wash  it  out.  The  milky  juice  from 
the  tree  will  also  stain  linen  a  dark  brown  colour.  The 
kernel  when  roasted  is  very  sweet  and  pleasant^  but  is 
considered  rather  astringent.  In  the  West  Indies  the 
fruit  or  apple  is  bruised,  and  a  juice  expressed  from  it 
and  fermented^  which  produces  a  sort  of  wine;  and  if 
distilled,  a  spirit  is  drawn  from  it,  which  makes  excellent 
punch.  The  gum  that  exudes  from  this  tree  is  valuable, 
from  its  resemblance  to    gum    Arabic. 

Cherry. — ^Prunus  Cerasus. — This  tree  is  met  with  in 
the  hills  north  of  Deyrah  Dhoon,  in  the  wild  state,  pro- 
ducing a  small   black  fruit,    fit  only  for    preserves. 

CocoANTJT  Tree. — Cocos  Nucifera^ — Is  too  well  known 
to  need  description ;  but  in  the  interior^ .  where  they  may 
be  scarce,  it  is  only  necessary  to  say  that  if  cultivated 
they  will  readily  grow;  and  fresh  ripe  fruit  from  the 
tree,  if  stript  and  deprived  of  its  husk,  and  planted  in  a 
moist  soil,  soon  sprouts.  It  requires  care  and  watering  for 
three  or  four  years;  after  which  it  will  grow  of  itself. 
The  top  sprouts  of  a  cocoanut  tree,  or  the  cabbage  as  it 
is  called,  which  is  nothing  more  nor  less  than  a  large 
bud,  if  procured  fresh,  makes  a  most  excellent  pickle.  It 
is  white,  and  resembles  a  good  almond  in  flavor;  the 
same  of  the    date    palm. 

Ctirry  Pak. — Bergera  Koenigii.— N.  Kodia  Neem. — 
This  tree  is  cultivated  in  most  gardens,  the  leaves  of 
which  are  used  in  curries  by  the  natives.  It  is  very 
common  on  the  Mahabuleshw'ar  hills,  but  does  not  grow 
to  any  size  there.  It  has  very  much  the  appearance  of 
the  Neem. 

Falsa.— Grewia  Asiatica.— This  shrub  is  generally  cul- 
tivated in  most  fruit  gardens;  it  bears  a  dark  purple 
berry,  when  ripe,  containing  one  or  two  small  stones. 
The  fruit  is   made  into  sherbet  by  pouring   boiling    water 

c3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


S94  INDIAN  imttsmc  economy 

on  it,  and  when  cool,  adding  sugar  to  the  taste.  The 
plants  are  generally  cut  down  almost  to  the  gronnd  in 
November,  and  even  the  leaves  are  burnt  round  the  stalks, 
after  which  the  roots  are  opened  and  manured,  and 
watered  occasionally,  when  new  shoots  spring  out;  the 
fruit  is  borne  near  the  axiUa  of  each  leaf,  when  of  a 
dark  purple,   they  are  ripe  and  fit  for  use. 

Fig. — ^Ficus  Carica. — N.  Unjeer.—Tlns  tree  bears  fniil 
almost  the  whole  year  round.  There  are  two  varieties, 
the  white  and  blue,  cultivated  in  all  the  native  gardens,  the 
young  trees  producing  the  finest  fruit.  The  Italians,  as 
the  fruit  begins  to  ripen,  prick  each  with  a  pin,  puttings 
drop  of  sweet  oil  on  the  spot;  it  is  said  that  this 
causes  an  increase  in  the  size  of  the  fruit.  The  trees 
may  be  grown  by  layers  and  suckers  at  the  commence- 
ment of  the  rains,  and  during  the  cold  season.  Cuttings 
strike  easily  in  the  course  of  six  weeks.  The  finest 
fruit  that  I  have  seen  grown  has  been  on  young  trees  of 
two  years  old,  near  which  dead  animal  matter  had  been 
buried.  The  trees  should  be  pruned  annually,  and  the 
best  way  is  to  cut  down  the  old  branches  that  have  borne 
fruit,  leaving  one  or  two  buds  that  promise  to  throw  out 
healthy  shoots.  The  fruit  when  ripening  must  be  pro- 
tected from   birds,    either   by  nets,   bags,  &c. 

Grapes. — Vitis  Vinifera,  Lin. — N.  JJngaor.* — ^This  fruit 
is  cultivated  in  the  greatest  perfection  in  all  parts  of  the 
Seccan,  and  the  finest  flavored  is  found  in  the  gardens 
in  the  neighbourhood  of  Dowlatabad,  about  seven  miles 
N.  W.  of  Aurungabad.  The  mode  of  culture  is  as  fol- 
lows : — the  trees  are  reared  from  slips  taken  at  the  time 
of  first  cutting  after  the  rains,  and  when  ready  to  be  re- 
moved  are  put  about  seven  or  eight  feet  apart.  They  are 
for   the    first    twelve    months   trained  on  dry  sticks;    after 

*  four  Mrti«-The  Habihe,  SaMba,  FoldDrie,  and  Bokeric  or  Abim, 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


AND   COOKERY.  595 

that,  a  large  straight  branch  of  the  Pangrah,  with  a  fork 
left  at  the  top  to  sopport  the  vine,  is  placed  about  twelve 
inches  from  it;  if  pat  at  a  greater  distance  it  is  apt  to  give 
a  bend  to  the  vine  which  is  hurtful.  The  stem  of  the  vine 
cannot  be  too  straight,  and  the  length  of  the  prop  should 
be  about  five  feet* 

The  beat  soil  is  the  white  earth  with  which  the  natives 
build  their  houses,  called  Pandree.  The  grapes  are  not  so 
fine  if  {prown  in  the  black  soil,  losing  much  of  their  flavor. 
The  grey  soil,  composed  of  the  Pandree  and  black,  pro- 
duces fine  vines,  but  the  fruit  is  not  of  so  fine  and  rich  a 
flavor  as  that  grown  in  the  Pandree  alone. 

The  vines  require  watering  during  the  hot  and  cold  sea- 
son, every  fourth  day,  after  they  have  been  cut  for  the 
first  crop,  at  the  end  of  the  rains,  which  are  mostly 
over  by  the  end  of  March.  As  soon  as  the  grapes  are  full 
and  ripe,  water  should  not  be  given  to  them.^  The  se- 
cond cutting  commences  as  soon  as  the  first  crop  is  over: 
they  are  full  grown  by  the  commencement  of  the  rains, 
and  in  a  very  dry  season  sometimes  come  to  perfection. 
The  principal  object  in  bringing  forward  this  crop  is  to 
check  a  too  luxuriant  growth  of  -the  vine,  which,  if  left  to 
run,  weakens  the  tree.  Some  gardeners,  when  the  flowers 
appear  for  the  second  crop,  pick  them  all  off.  In  pre- 
paring for  this  crop,  the  vine  roots  are  opened  for  four  days, 
when  the  common  manure  from  cattle  is  put  to  them, 
end  water  immediately  given;  one  eye  on  the  shoot  at 
this  time  is  only  left. 

When  the  vine,  after  the  rains,  is  cut  for  the  sweet  crop, 
this  method  is  pursued  by  the  most  experienced  gardeners, 
and  it  is  considered  almost  a  secret :  Two  pounds  of  dried 
fish,  four  ounces  of  common  salt,  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  assafcBtida,    are  mixed  up  in   sixteen  quarts     of  butter- 

*  Except  in  particulu  iry  soils, 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


596  INDIAN  DoifEarric  xconomt 

milk^  and  allowed  to  digest  for  three  weeks ;  this  qaantity  is 
sufficient  for  five  trees.  The  vine  is  first  cleaned  of  all  its 
ragged  and  rough  bark,^  which  harbours  insects ;  it  is  then 
cut,  leaving  three  or  four  eyes  on  each  bough  only,  close  to 
the  stem.  It  is  allowed  then  to  drop  four  days  :  the  earth 
is  then  opened  round  the  roots,  and  cleared  away.  It  then 
remains  in  this  state  for  four  more  days,  when  the  earth  is 
put  again  to  the  roots,  mixed  with  a  proportion  of  the  above 
compost.  The  vme  is  then  left  for  three  more  daysj^hea 
water  is  given  to  it ;  after  which  the  watering  ceases  until 
it  is  in  full  blossom,  when  irrigation  is  continued  every 
fourth  day  during  the  season.  The  vine  is  seldom  ever 
grown  upon  trellis  work,  it  being  too  expensive,  and 
should  be  always  exposed  to  the  morning  sun,  and  free 
from  shade.  Protection  from  the  N.  W^  wind  is  de- 
sirable. 

The  fruit  of  the  vine  is  continually  destroyed  by  blights 
during  the  month  of  November,  which  come  on  with  the 
appearance  of  rain,  but  end  in  nothing  but  the  blossom 
and  young  fruit  being  withered.  Smoking  the  trees  with 
all  the  rubbish  you  can  collect  and  bum  to  windward, 
is  useful. 

GuAVA,  Red  and  Whitb. — ^Psidium  Pyriferum,— N.  Jamb, 
— This  tree  grows  in  all  parts  of  the  Deccan.  The  fruit 
is  both  red  and  white,  pear-shaped  and  round:  it  is 
esteemed  as  a  dessert  fruit,  but  the  scent  when  too  ripe  is 
unpleasantly  powerful;  it  makes  a  most  excellent  jelly, 
and    also    is   preserved    in    a    similar    manner    to    damson 


*  And  Uie  leayes  picked  off  abont  three  weeks  previoiu  to  cutting,  which  n 
done  with  a  view  of  hardening  the  wood.  The  natives,  after  the  vine  has  been 
eiit»  and  preyiona  to  the  shooting  of  the  bnds,  go  round  to  each  tree,  holding  a  doth 
under  it,  into  which  they  shake  off  a  small  insect  which  is  bred  on  Uie  stem  of 
the  vine,  in  the  interstices  of  the  rough  bark — (this  is  done  morning  and  even- 
ing, and  sometimes  in  the  middle  of  the  day).  Another  method  of  destroying 
the  insect  is  by  passing  a  bunch  of  lighted  tow,  or  hemp,  suddenly  over  it;  this 
singes  the  wings  of  the  insects  and  they  drop  off,  besides  destroying  any  hirv« 
that  may  be  attached  to  the  tree,  and  probably  is  the  most  effectual  meUiod. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKBRT.         >  597 

cheese  at  home.  The  fruit  sometimes  is  as  large  as  a 
common  baking  pear,  and  I  have  known  one  weigh  half 
a  poand.  Thej  have  been  brought  to  great  perfection 
in  some  gardens,  and  the  fruit  of  a  large  size  divested 
almost  of  seed;  this  sort  generally  has  a  very  rough 
knotty  coat,  and  is  more  spongy  and  less  firm  than  the 
other  varieties.  As  plants  continually  grown  from  layers 
in  time  cease  to  produce  seed,  perhaps  this  variety  has 
beeiilt  so  procured.  It  is  easily  increased  by  seed,  and 
only  requires  a  good  soil  to  thrive  in.  The  trees  should 
be  pruned  once  a  year,  otherwise  the  branches  become 
very  straggling.  Good  gun  stocks  are  made  from  the 
old   wood. 

Hog  Plum. — Spondius  Mangifera — Amra. — ^This  is  a 
large  tree;  flowers  at  the  commencement  of  the  hot 
season  and  the  fruit  when  ripe  is  about  the  size  of  a 
small  egg.  It  is  eaten  raw,  pickled,  put  into  curries,  and 
made  into  tarts.  The  trunk  of  the  tree  gives  out,  during 
the  hot  weather,  large  quantities  of  juice,  which  hardens 
into  a  mild  gum.  It  grows  easily,  and  requires  little  care 
when  once   planted. 

Jamoon  or  Jambool. — ^Eugenia  Jambolania. — This  is  a 
large  and  handsome  tree,  flowers  in  February  and  March, 
and  thrives  in  any  good  soil.  The  fruit  of  the  best  sort 
is  as  large  as  a  common  blue  plum,  which  it  resembles  in 
appearance;  it  has  a  rough  astringent  flavor,  and  should 
be  soaked  in  salt  and  water  before  eaten.  The  fresh 
stone  if  planted  grows  immediately. 

Hibiscus  Sabdariffa, — Red  Sorrel  Plant. — ^This  is  the 
red  sorrel  plant  of  the  West  Indies,  and  introduced  from 
the  Mauritius.  It  is  easily  grown  from  seed,  at  the  com- 
mencement of  the  rains,  and  when  about  six  or  eight 
inches  high,  should  be  planted  out  in  beds  or  rows.  The 
soilj  if  light  and  good,   will  cause  the  plant  to  thrive  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


598  INDIAN   DOMESTIC     ECONOMY 

form  A  bush  foar  or  five  feet  high;  thej  should  hftve  at 
least  in  such  soil  a  space  between  each  of  four  feet.  The 
fruit  when  ripe  makes  most  excellent  jellies  and  tarts. 
There  is  a  white  variety  which  also  grows  to  the  same  size, 
and  the  leaves  are  used,  on  account  of  their  acidity,  in 
curries  by  the  -  native?.  Bandycoots  are  very  fond  of  the 
fruit,  and   destroy  the  whole   bush  to   get  at  it. 

KuMRTJCK.— Averrhoa  Carambola.    See  BUimbu 

KuEUNDBR.— Carissa  Carandas.— A  large  thorny  bush. 
Grows  wild  in  most  parts  of  the  Deccan,  bearing  a  dark  bloe 
colored  berry  when  ripe,  and  sold  in  the  bazaar.  There 
is  also  a  cultivated  sort  in  gardens.  The  fruit  when  ripe 
is  sometimes  eaten  by  Europeans,  but  in  the  green  state 
is  made  into  tarts,  jellies^  and  pickles :  the  jelly  is  consi- 
dered inferior  to  none  made  of  other  Indian  frnits.  The 
wild  sort  is  picked  and  sold  by  the  natives  for  the  same 
purpose. 

Leichee.— Seytalia  Litchie. — ^This  tree,  originally  from 
China,  is  an  evergreen,  and  grows  to  a  large  size.  The 
fruit  is  of  a  dark  brown  colour,  and  contains  a  glutin- 
ous yeUow  sweet  sort  of  pulp;  it  is  not  much  prized — 
perhaps  from  its  inferior  quality  to  the  Chinese  fruit, 
which  is  much  esteemed.  The  fruit  ripens  in  March 
and  April. 

Lemon. — Citrus  Limona. — TST.  Neemboo. — There  are  so 
many  varieties  that  they  can  hardly  be  described  se- 
parately, being  unnecessary.  The  large  and  small  yield 
abundance  of  acid  juice,  and  the  tree  is  easily  cultivated 
by  layers,  which  soon  throw  out  root  fibres.  The  lime, 
which  is  of  the  smaller  description,  does  not  bear  finiit 
so  quickly  as  the  larger  sort,  but  if  carefully  pruned  and 
watered,  will  continue  fruiting  all  the  year  round,  and 
be  very  productive. 

Limb,  Swbbt. — Me^  Neemboo. — This  is  a  sweet  variety^ 
and  grows  to  the  size  of  a  large  orange.    It  is  easily  pro>- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKERY*  699 

pagated  by  seed.  The  juice  of  the  frmt  is  very  grateful 
to  persons  with  fever^  although  rather  tasteless.  It  will 
grow  also  from  cuttings  and  seed.  The  young  shoots 
make  a  very  good  stock  for  orange  grafts. 

LoijTJAT. — ^Eriobotryna  Japonica%— This  tree  is  now  intro- 
duced all  over  the  Deccan^  and  bears  fruit  twice  in  the 
year.  It  is  highly  esteemed  both  for  dessert  and  preserves. 
It  is  a  native  of  China,  but  grows  in  great  perfection  in 
Kew  South  Wales.  The  finest  fruit  is  produced  at  the 
second  crop,  at  the  end  of  the  cold  season,  and  requires 
protection  day  and  night;  from  birds  in  the  former,  and 
flying  foxes  in  the  latter.  The  fruit  is  of  a  yellow  color, 
with  thin  skin  and  sweet  acid  pulp,  and  one  or  two  seeds 
in  the  centre — sometimes  more.  The  seeds  grow  early. 
Proper  attention  does  not  seem  to  have  been  given  to  this 
fruit,    as  it   appears  to  be   capable  of    great   improvement. 

Mango. — ^N.  Awn. — Is  a  highly  esteemed  fruit,  and  may 
be  procured  twice  in  the  year,  but  I  have  never  met  with 
any  trees  bearing  two  crops  in  the  Deccan,  only  in  Bom< 
bay. 

Propagationm — ^May  easily  be  eflfected  by  seed  and  cut- 
tings, &c.,  but  the  first  process  is  slow,  as  a  tree  thus 
raised  will  not  bear  fruit  before  the  5th  or  6th  year, 
whereas  those  that  are  grafted  produce  in  the  8d  or  3d, 
although  it  is  injurious  to  the  tree  to  let  it  bear  so  early 
and  I  therefore  recommend  that  the  blossoms  should  be 
removed.  Young  grafts  will  sometimes,  indeed,  very  often 
blossom  the  first  season  they  are  removed,  and  if  allowed 
to  bear  fruit,  it  checks  them  for  a  length  of  time  aft^r. 
A  mango  graft  may  be  applied  at  any  time  of  the  year  ; 
the  stock  must  be  kept  continually  moist  by  watering. 
When  the  graft  and  stock  have  become  united,  the  former 
must  be  partially  divided  by  a  notch  with  a  sharp  knife ; 
this  may  be  done  after  six  weeks  have  elapsed  from  the 
time  of  its  first  being  united:  a  second  cutting  may  be 
effected  a  fortnight    later,  and  the  complete  removal  from 


Digitized  by 


Google 


600  INDIAN   DOUBSTIC   ECONOlfT 

the  parent  tree  at  the  expiration  of  nine  or  ten  weeks. 
After  this^  remove  the  graft  into  the  shade  for  a  fortnight 
longer,  when  it  maj  be  put  into  the  spot  where  it  is  to 
remain.  A  graft  tree  never  attains  the  size  of  a  seedling, 
neither  will  it  continue  to  live  or  bear  so  long,  and  I  doubt 
much  if  the  seed  of  a  graft  mango  would  produce  the 
same  fruit,  whereas  a  seedling  often  does  so.  The  time 
that  a  seedling  takes  to  produce  fruit  is  the  great  objec- 
tion  to  this  mode  of  rearing  trees,  nevertheless  a  young 
tree  of  three  years  old  might  have  one  of  its  branches 
brought  into  blossom  by  ringing:  this  would  enable  the 
cultivator  to  judge  if  the  tree  was  worth  preserving  or  not. 
The  finest  flavoured  sorts  of  mango  grown  in  Western 
India,  are  the  Alphonso,  Baspberry,  Mazagon,  Doriab,,  and 
Malgrobah;  this  latter  species  is  of  a  greenish  tinge  inside 
when  ripe,  and  by  far  the  largest  of  the  whole,  being 
three  times  the  size  of  an  Alphonso;  and  it  ripens  the 
last. 

Culture. — ^When  the  graft  is  planted  out,  it  requires  only 
a  moderate  proportion  of  care,  clearing  the  ground  of  all 
weeds,  and  removing  any  buds  that  shew  themselves. 
Within  the  space  from  the  ground  to  where  the  first 
branches  are  to  rise  from,  all  superfluous  and  weak  shoots 
should  be  removed,  more  particularly  those  from  the  cen- 
tre of  the  tree,  as  also  all  branches  that  trail  on  the 
ground,  unless  required  for  grafting.  The  tree  is  better 
for  being  pruned,  and  whenever  the  interior  of  the  tree 
may  contain  superfluous  branches,  or  when  there  is  not  suf- 
ficient room  for  the  growth  of  the  young  and  fruit-bear- 
ing shoots,  a  clear  space  must  be  provided, — ^and  this  can 
only  be  done  by  pruning.  The  best  time  for  this  opera- 
tion is  soon  after  the  tree  has  done  bearing  fruit.  No  old 
and  decayed  wood  should  be  allowed  to  remain,  and  great 
care  be  taken  to  remove  on  the  first  appearance  the  Borer.* 


•  See  Note  to  Apple. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


I 


AND    COOKEKY.  601 

should  it  indicate  its  presence  by  the  appearance  on  the 
bark.  When  trees  are  old  and  have  their  bark  injured, 
it  must  be  all  cleared  away^  and  the  parts  covered  with 
the  composition  recommended  for  that  purpose. 

I  have  been  favoured  with  the  following  information 
from  a  friend  at  Aurungabad.  Take  slips  from  the 
healthy  branch  of  a  mango,  at  least  two  feet  long, 
taking  care  to  cut  it  one  inch  above  the  joint  at  the 
top  and  the  same  below  the  joint  at  the  bottom.  The 
enttings  will  not  all  be  equal,  as  in  some  branches  the 
joints  are  short  and  in  others  long.  The  thickness  of  the 
slip  is  to  be  from  three  quarters  to  three  inches  in  diame- 
ter. Half  the  length  of  the  slip  is  to  be  slightly  punc- 
tured with  an  awl,  and  then  inserted  into  the  ground  to 
that  depth  (half  of  the  slip)  perfectly  perpendicular;  and 
then  make  a  knob  at  the  top  of  the  slip  with  plain  cow- 
dung.  The  cuttings  must  be  well  watered  in  such  a  man- 
ner  as  to  keep  up  an  uninterrupted  moisture  in  the  ground ; 
and  moreover  the  cuttings  are  to  be  well  shaded,  and  the 
coverings  only  to  be  removed  by  degrees  as  the  plants 
attain  leaves  and  strength,  and  not  to  be  transplanted  on 
any  account  until  the  next  monsoon.  The  slips  begin  to 
bud  within  a  month  generally,  but  sometimes  take  a  much 
longer  period.  In '  all  cases  the  punctures  are  indispensa- 
bly necessary*  to  admit  of  root  fibres  being  thrown  out 
from  them. 

The  tree  and  fruit  may  both  be  improved,  if,  during 
the  cold  season,  the  ground  is  dug  all  round  the  roots, 
and  by  the  addition  of  a  suitable  quantity  of  good  old 
manure.  The  seed  will  only  grow  when  fresh,  and  sel- 
dom after  six  weeks.  From  twenty  to  twenty-four  feet 
of  space  should  be  allowed  between  each  tree  if  a  graft: 
double  the  space  is  required  for  a  seedling. 

Mangosteen. — Oarcinia  Mangostana.— This  tree  has  been 
mtroduced  from  Singapore  into  Bombay,  but  the  fruit  has 

d3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


60S  INDIAN    DOUESnC    ECONOMY 

never  been  brought  to  any  perfection:  probably  if  grafted 
on  the  Brindoa,  which  is  common  in  the  Concan  (and 
several  trees  are  found  in  Bombay),  it  might  be  much 
improved.  I  have  been  iuformed  by  a  friend,  that  the* 
Mangosteen  ripens  (and  is  equal  to  the  Penang  fruit)  in 
the  Company's  spice  gardens  on  the  hills  near  Courtal- 
lum. 

Mangosteen^  Wild, — Garcinia  Purpuera. — Kohum  Brin- 
doa — ^This  is  an  elegant  tree,  and  found  in  the  Concan 
along  the  Malabar  Coast.  At  Goa  the  fruit  is  used  for 
jellies  and  syrup :  it  is  of  a  smooth  dark  brown  color  out- 
side, and  of  a  most  beautiful  purple  inside,  and  an  agreeable 
flavor.  The  tree  grows  to  thirty  feet  high>  conical  sh^, 
with  dark  green  shining  leaves:  there  are  several  in  Bom- 
bay,— two  in  a  garden  at  the  top  of  Nesbit-lane,  By- 
culla. 

MooEiNQA. — H^n^e-radish  Tree. — Hypenmthera. — ^This  tree 
is  to  be  found  in  the  jungles,  as  well  as  in  gardens.  The 
long  pods  when  green  are  made  into  curries,  and  the 
young  roots,  scraped,  used  as  a  substitute  for  our  English 
horse-radish.  An  oil  is  obtained  from  the  seed:  it  also 
yields  a  gum. 

Mulberry. — ^White,  Alba;  Bed,  Moms  Indica;  Black, 
Nigra. — These  trees  grow  equally  well  in  the  Deccan,  the 
white  growing  to  a  very  large  tree,  shedding  its  leaves 
before  the  hot  season.  The  red  mulberry  beara  fruit  in 
the  rains,  as  well  as  the  black.  Silk-worms  may  be  fed 
ou  the  young  fresh  leaves,  although  the  leaves  of  the 
white  are  preferred.    Grows  from  seed  or  cuttings. 

Orange, — Citrus  Aurantium.— This  tree  is  now  extensive- 
ly cultivated  all  over  the  Deccan.  The  finest  sorts  dow 
are  the  Cintra,  Cowlah,  and  a  small  sweet  orange  which 
grows  on  a  tree  more  like  a  creeper.  The  prinbipal  method 
of  culture  is  by  budding,  the  stocks  generally  being  either 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AMD  COOKXRt.  603 

seedlings  or  cuttings  from  the  sweet  lime.  The  best 
cintra,  with  a  thin  dose  rind,  is  produced  upon  a  seedling 
stock,  and  it  is  said  that  the  firmt  grown  upon  the  sweet 
lime  stock  is  generally  loose  and  soft:  that  is  very  per- 
ceptible with  some  of  the  oranges.  The  best  time  for 
budding  is  in  the  cold  season. 

NcTTMEG.— Mjristica  Moschata.  Hind.  JaphuL — ^I  have 
only  met  with  this  tree  in  Bombay,  where  it  has  been 
introduced  from  the  Eastward.  The  fruit  ripens  in  the 
rains:  it  is  the  size  of  a  large  plum,  with  a  green  cover** 
ing,  and  upon  being  opened,  discovers  a  net-work  of  a 
dark  red  colour  surrounding  the  nut,  which  has  a  most 
beautiful  appearance :  this  is  the  spice  known  as  mace. 

''  The  first  care  of  the  cultivator  is  to  select  ripe  nuts 
and  to  set  them  at  the  distance  of  a  foot  apart  in  a  rich 
soil,  merely  covering  them  very  lightly  with  mould.  They 
are  to  be  protected  from  the  heat  of  the  sun»  occasionally 
Weeded,  and  watered  in  dry  weather  every  other  day. 
The  seedlings  may  be  expected  to  appear  in  from  thirty 
to  sixty  days»  and  when  four  feet  high,  the  healthiest  and 
most  luxuriant)  consisting  of  three  or  four  vertides^  are 
to  be  removed  in  the  commencement  of  the  rains  to  the 
plantation,  previously  cleared  of  trees  and  underwood  by 
grubbing  and  burning  their  roots,  and  placed  in  holes  dug 
for  their  reception  at  the  distance  of  eighty  feet  from 
each  other, — screening  them  from  the  heat  of  the  sun, 
and  violence  of  the  winds.  They  must  be  watered  every 
other  day  in  sultry  weather;  manured  once  a  year  during 
the  rains,  and  protected  from  the  sun  until  they  obtain 
the  age  of  five  years.  The  nutmeg-tree  is  moneocious  as 
well  as  dioedous,  but  no  means  of  discovering  the  sexes, 
before  the  period  of  inflorescence,  is  known.  Upon  an 
average,  the  nutmeg-tree  fruits  at  the  age  of  seven  years, 
and  increases  in  produce  till  the  fifteenth  year,  and  ia 
said  to  continue  prolific  fur  sixty  or  eighty  years.  Seven 
months    in    general   elapse  between  the    appearance  of  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


604  INDIAN  BOUXSTLO  ICONOMT 

blossom  and  the  ripening  of  the  fruit;  and  the  prodaoeof 
one  bearing  tree  with  another^  under  good  cultivation^  in 
the  fifteenth  year  may  be  calculated^  at  five  pounds  of 
nutmegs^  and  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  mace.  It  bean, 
all  the  year  rounds  but  more  plentifully  in  some  months 
than  others,  and  generally  yields  more  abundantly  every 
other  year.  It  is  necessary  that  the  roots  of  the  trees 
during  their  growth  should  be  kept  well  covered  with 
mould,  for  they  have  a  tendency  to  seek  the  surface.  The 
growth  of  the  lateral  branches  is  to  be  alone  encouraged, 
and  all  suckers,  or  dead  and  unproductive  branches,  ate 
to  be  removed  with  the  pruning  knife,  and  the  lower 
verticles  lopped  off,  with  the  view  of  establishing  an 
unimpeded    circulation     of     air/' — Venang    Gazette. 

Olivb. — Julpie. — Olea  Sativa. — ^This  is  cultivated  in  some 
of  the  upper  parts  of  Bengal,  but  is  of  a  very  coarse 
description;  they  are   (so  I  am   informed)  also  pickled. 

Olive, —Indian.  Olea  Dioica.  Atajam. — This  tree  is 
common :  grows  to  a  large  size,  and  bears  fruit  about  the 
size  of  the  common  Spanish  olive.  The  stone  is  not  by 
any  means  hard,  and  the  fruit  is  eaten  by  the  Natives 
in  curries,  and  also  pickled  in  salt  and  water :  it  is  not 
much   esteemed   by   Europeans. 

Panbola  Plum. — Placourtia  Cataphracta.— This  fruit  is 
generally  cultivated  about  Calcutta,  and  grows  to  the  size 
of  a  common  plum:  it  resembles  a  gooseberry  in  appear- 
ance, the  skin  thin  and  shining  and  of  a  purple  appear- 
ance. The  tree  is  not  common  on  this  side  of  India, 
and  only  one  or  two  are  to  be  found  in  Bombay.  The 
fruit  is  not  so  large  as  I  have  seen  in  Calcutta,  where 
it  is  common  during  the  rains;  it  contains  from  ten  to 
twelve  seeds  and  is  both  palatable  and  wholesome,  and 
well  worthy  of  more  general  cultivation.  The  tree  grows 
to  a    large   size. 

Papaw  Trbe. — Cariea  Papoya.— This  tree    is  common  in 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


AND   COOKERY.  605 

\ 

every  garden;  and  the  fndt,  which  is  formed  like  a 
melon,  grows  in  clusters  one  above  the  other,  dose  to  the 
stem.  The  small  black  seeds  have  the  taste  of  watercress, 
and  the  fruit,  just  before  ripening,  makes  an  excellent 
tart,  mixed  with  a  portion  of  lime  juice,  sugar,  and  a  few 
cloves, — ^resembling  apples  so  nearly  that  it  may  be,  and 
is,  substituted  for  the  sauce  of  the  latter  fruit.  The  tree 
grows  easily  from  seed,  and  only  requires  a  deep  good 
soil.  It  is  said  that  meat,  if  hung  under  the  tree,  be- 
comes tender  :  the  gteen  fruit  is  also  put  with  meat  when 
boiling,  for  the  same  purpose. 

Peach. — ^Amygdalus  Persica, — N.  Shuft  Alho. — There  are 
but  three  varieties  of  this  fruit  which  I  have  met  with  in 
the  Deccan — ^a  large  round  white  sort,  of  a  delicious  fla« 
vor  ;  the  flat  China ;  and  a  small  thin-skinned  description, 
more  resembling  an  apricot  in  appearance,  and  much  harder 
than  the  other.  The  peach  is  easily  cultivated  by  seed 
or  layers.  A  seedling  will  throw  out  blossom  in  the  second 
year,  and  be  ten  or  twelve  feet  in  height :  it  requires  to 
be  carefully  pruned,  wintered,  and    watered. 

No  branches  should  be  allowed  to  grow  on  the  stem 
closer  than  three  feet  from  the  ground ;  all  spurious  and 
misplaced  shoots  should  be  rubbed  off  before  gaining  '  strength 
to  exhaust  unnecessarily  the  juices  of  the  tree ;  and  all  dis- 
torted leaves,  the  work  of  insects,  of  parasitic  plants,  mil- 
dew, &c.» — should  be   picked  off  and  destroyed. 

The  kernels  of  the  peach  should  be  carefully  removed 
from  the  shell,  and  in  no  ways  injured  if  required  for 
planting  ;  they  should  be  sown  in  small  beds  at  the  commence- 
ment of  the  rains,  about  eighteen  inches  apart,  and  as  soon 
as  they  are  fit  for  removal,  a  good  sized  ball  of  earth 
must  be  taken  up  with  the  roots,  to  prevent  the  root  fibres 
from  injury.  All  the  buds  around  the  stem  had  better  be 
rubbed  off  by  the  fingers  as  far  as  is  requisite,  and  a  pro- 
per   shape  be  given  to  the  tree  by  cutting  out         the  8u« 


Digitized  by 


Google 


606  INDIAN    DOMESTIC    EGONOHT 

perflaous  spurs  and  their  branches.  The  time  for  opeii^ 
ing  the  roots  of  the  peach  is  after  the  dose  of  the  rains ; 
remove  the  earth  with  care,  so  as  not  to  injure  the  roots, 
for  the  space  round  the  stem  of  three  feet ;  pull  off  all  the 
leaves,  and  cease  to  water  the  tree  until  the  blossom  buds 
appear ;  then  cover  up  the  roots  with  good  loam  mixed 
with  old  rotten  manure  ;  water  freely  every  third  or  fourth 
day  until  the  fruit  begins  to  ripen,  when  you  must  be 
guided  by  circumstances.  It  is  necessary  sometimes  to  thin 
the  fruit,  and  also  to  put  the  peaches  as  they  begin  to 
ripen  iu  bags,  otherwise  the  birds  will  pick  and  destroy 
the  fruit. 

Peaches  first  come  in  about  February,  and  with  care 
may  be  continued  until  the  rains  commence,  after  which 
the  excess  of  moisture  received  by  the  leaves  and  roots 
causes  the  fruit  to   swell  and  burst* 

Peae.— Pyrus  Communis. — ^This  tree  is  not  common.  I 
have  met  with  a  few  at  Hyderabad,  bearing  a  tolerably 
large-sized  coarse  fruit;  but  as  the  trees  had  been  neg- 
lected, I  can  give  little  or  no  account  of  them ;  care  per« 
haps  might  render  them  fit  for  baking  and  stews.  In 
the  upper  provinces  of  Bengal,  I  have  seen  the  fruit  of  a 
large  size,  but  very  coarse  and  hard:  indeed,  all  that 
could  be  said* about  them  was  that  they  were  pears,  and 
shown   accordingly. 

Pine  Apple. — Bromelia  Ananas. — Though  growing  so 
easily  and  without  care  in  many  parts  of  India,  they  re* 
quire  great  attention  to  rear  in  the  interior.  At  Hydera-i* 
bad  they  seem  to  be  quite  acclimated,  and  produce  as  fine 
fruit  as  is  ever  seen  on  the  coast. 

Propagation — Is  performed  by  planting  the  tops  or  off- 
sets ;  they  will  produce   fruit  in  the  second  year. 

%i/— Should  be,  if  procurable,  rich  red  earth  loam: 
the   manure,    cannot   *be   too  strong.— ^Fig's    and    pigeon's 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AKD   COOKBHY.  607 

manure      mixed      with     goats',     forms  a      most   excellent 
compost. 

Culture — ^The  plants,  after  removal  from  the  nm^ery-bed, 
should  be  put  out  in   rows  two  feet  asunder,  and  the  rows 
the  same   distance  apart,    which  will  be  found    quite  suffi- 
cient :   the  rows  must  be   well  worked  and  dug,  adding  the 
manure.    The    plant,    when     large   and    promising  to    bear 
fruit,     should   immediately    after    the  rains,  in   the     latter 
end  of  October  be  taken  up,  and  the  root,  which    will  be 
nearly  as  long  as  the  plant,  having  fibres    at  the  end,  may 
be  cut   off  with  a  saw:   supposing  the  root  t«  be  eighteen 
inches,  one  foot  may    be    removed.    It  is  round    the  edge 
of  the  cut  root    that  root  fibres    spring,    and    the    greater 
the  number  of  these  fibres,  the  better  chance  of  large  and 
fine  fruit.    The  superfluous    leaves  now    near  the  cut    end 
must   also  be  pulled   off    and  then  the  plant  is  ready  for 
being  put  into   the  rows  again,  which  have  been  previously 
well  manured ;  and  a  good  watering  given.    The  plants  must 
be   watered     after  this    regularly;    only    avoid,  if   possible, 
the  water  getting  between  the  axilla  of   the  leaves,    as  it 
makes    them    rot  and  decay  in  the    centre.   I    found  this 
the  case  with  pines  that  I  removed  at  the  commencement 
of  the  rains:  the    plants  not    having  any  root  suckers  to 
nourish    them,    decayed  in  consequence  of  water  remaining 
between    the  leaves.    Plants    that  are  put  out  in  October 
and    November  will    bear    fruit  in    May  and    June.   Some 
gardeners    are  in  th^    habit,    when  4the    pine   fruit  is  half 
grown,  of  cutting  off  the  top,  with  a  view  to  throw  all  the 
nourishment    into    the    fruit,    thereby    increasing    its    size. 
This    may    be   all    very  well  with  any  early  pines,   but  if 
they  do   not  ripen  before  the  rains  set  in,  the  water  lodg- 
ing   in    the    cut    crown  will    cause  it  to    decay  like  the 
plant :     this    might    be    prevented     by    having  '  wax  cloth 
covers  of  a    cone    shape  to  put  over  the  fruit  when  rain 
is    apprehended;  but  I    prefer   letting  the  crowns  remain. 
The    stem    producing   the    fruit    should  be  removed  when 


Digitized  by 


Google       _^ 


608  INDIAN    DOMESTIC    ECONOKY 

the  fruit  is  cut,  and  new  shoots  encouraged.  All  off-sets 
when  the  plant  is  fruiting,  must  be  removed,  so  as  to 
give  the  fruit  all   the  nourishment  possible. 

When  trimming  the  plants,  the  extremities  of  the  root 
which  have  been  cut  off  (if  planted  in  a  nursery  bed 
about  eighteen  inches  asunder,  the  end  an  inch  above  the 
ground),  will  give  fresh  shoots,  and  form  a  good  nursery 
of  plants  for  the  following  season. 

Pistachio.— Pistacia  Officinarum.— The  nut  of  this  tree 
is  brought  from  Bussorah  in  great  abundance,  and  I  have 
succeeded  in  growing  plants  from  it.  The  trees  are  male 
and  female;  consequently  should  be  grown  in  clusters  or 
pairs.  The  leaves  are  deciduous,  and  for  several  months 
the  trees  look  very  bare.  It  is  by  no  means  a  handsome 
plant.  I  first  soaked  the  nuts  in  water,  and  when  they 
split  at  the  end,  put  them  into  boxes  filled  with  earth: 
almost  all  grew  and    were  given  away. 

Plantain.  Banana. — ^Musa  Sapientum. — ^N.  Kilai. — There 
are  several  varieties  of  the  Banana  cultivated  in  the 
Deccan, — the  large  red,  green  and  the  jellow.  A  small 
sort,  which  is  supposed  to  be  the  real  Banana  <A  the 
West  Indies,  is  perhaps  the  most  luxuriant  of  the  whole. 
The  plants  blossom  at  all  seasons,  and  as  soon  as  the 
drupe  of  fruit  begins  to  ripen,  which  is  known  by  some 
turning  its  color,  it  is  cut  and  hung  up  to  ripen  in  the 
house.  The  plant  will  not  bear  again,  and  may  be  cut 
down  (otherwise  it  will  perish  of  itself),  when  the  sur- 
rounding shoots  grow  np  and  blossom  as  the  former.  The 
plants  are  generally  grown  in  beds  or  clusters  in  a  good 
rich  soil,  when  fine  fruit  is  almost  the  sure  return.  In 
transplanting  the  shoots,  if  two  or  three  feet  high,  a  por- 
tion of  one  half  is   generally   cut    off. 

Plum,  Common. — ^Prunus  Triflora.— N.  Aloo. — ^This  tree 
has  been  brought  from  the  upper  provinces  of  Bengal,  and 
seems  to  be  acclimated  at  Hyderabad.  The  fruit,  which  is 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    COOKERY.  €09 

of  a  dark  purple  when  ripe,  and  about  the  size  of  a  common 
buUace  at  home,  has  the  flavour  of  that  fruit:  it  does  not 
seem  to  require  wintering  as  the  peach,  but  throws  out 
its  blossoms  after  the  trains,  and  continues  to  blossom 
and  bear  fruit  at  the  same  time,  and  very  abundantly. 
To  secure  fine  fruit  the  superfluous  green  ones  must  be 
removed,  by  which  means  I  have  seen  some  very  tolera- 
ble sized  plums  produced.  I  never  succeeded  in  budding 
it  on  the  peach,  but  it  takes  readily  by  approach  on  the 
peach  stock,  and  may  be  removed  in  six  weeks  or  two 
months  from  the  parent   stem. 

PoiiEGRANATE. — Fuuica  Grauatum. — ^N.  Anar. — There  are 
two  varieties  of  this  tree,  bearing  white  and  red  fruit — ^both 
sweet,  but  much  inferior  to  the  dried  brought  from  Per- 
sia and  Bussorah  to  the  Bombay  market.  The  tree  grows 
easily  from  seed,  and  large  fine  juicy  fruit,  where  the  soil 
is  good,  is  often  produced.  There  is  a  variety  which  is 
generally  sour,  used  by  the  Natives  for  Sherbet.  The 
dried  bark  of  the  root  is  made  into  a  decoction  and  given 
for  worms. 

FuMBLENosB,  PmiiCBLO. — Citrus  Decumana. — N.  Choco-' 
tra* — ^This  is  the  largest  of  the  Orange  tribe,  and  is  uni- 
versally cultivated  in  all  gardens  :  the  varieties  are  red  and 
white — the  former  preferred  by  some  persons.  The  tree 
grows  to  a  large  size  in  a  rich  soil,  and  requires  a  good 
deal  of  pruning;  the  best  time  for  doing  this  is  when 
the  crop  of  fruit  is  oS.  Fruit  as  fine  as  any  I  have  ever 
met,  was  produced  at  Ellichpoor  from  the  seed  of  a  pum- 
blenose  brought  from  Bombay.  The  tree^  when  planted, 
should  have  a  space  of  twelve  feet  all  round  it :  the  blos- 
som is  used  for  flavoring  sweetmeats. 

Quince.— Cydonia  Vulgaris.— N.  Beh,  or  SafferJal-^Tlna 
tree  may  have  been  probably  introduced  from  China  or 
Bengal,  and  is  now  to  be  met  with  in  many  gardens.  It 
grows  like    the   apple.    The  fruit    is  plentiful  at     Sattars, 

e3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


610  INDIAN   DOVX^nC    ECONOin 

and  I  have  met  with  it  in  Poonah.  In  other  parts  of  the 
Deccan  I  have  seen  the  tqee  in  blossom^  but  the  &mt 
did  not    set^— perhaps  for  want  of  proper  treatment. 

Baspbe&rt. — ^Babos  Fauciflonis.— I  merely  mention  this 
trxkit,  as  the  common  blackberry  is  often  mistaken  for  it. 
The  raspberry  I  have  never  seen  in  any  part  of  the  Dec- 
can  :  a  wild  plant  is  described  by  Graham  as  found  at 
Mahabuleshwar. 

BosB  Apple. — ^Eugenia  Jambosa. — ^N.  Goolab  /a«i4.— This 
tree  bears  a  light  whitish  yellow  froit^  pear-shaped^  with 
smooth  skin^  having  a  rose  flavor  :  it  is  commonly  culti- 
vated in  gardens  about  the  coast.  The  only  part  of  the 
Deccan  where  I  have  met  with  the  fruit  is  Hyderabad. 
Many  attempts  have  been  made  by  myself^  and  a  Mend, 
to  introduce  it  elsewhere^  but  without  success.  It  is 
easily  propagated  by  seed,  and  will  grow  in  a  moist  soil 
with  only  common  care. 

There  are  only,  I  believe,  two  sorts — red  and  whitish 
yellow— both  possessing  the  same  flavor :  the  red  is  called 
the  Jambo   Mallaca. 

Salep.— Orchis  Mascula.— This  plant  is  found  on  the 
Mahabuleshwar  hills.  It  blossoms  in  June,  and  the  roots 
are  dug  up  and  gathered  after  the  rains  in  November  or 
December.  Another  variety  is  found  in  the  hills  and 
jungles  near  Gandeish,  but  possessing  a  very  bitter  prin- 
ciple. It  is  dug  up  by  the  Bheels,  and  sold  when  fresh 
for  a  few  pice  the  seer.  It  requires  a  great  deal  of  soak- 
ing and  preparation  before  it  can  be  deprived  of  its  bitter 
quality.  When  dry,  it  is  in  appearance  as  fine  as  the 
Persian.  It  requires  being  boiled  in  at  least  six  different 
waters,  and  then  dried  in  the  sun,  when  it  will  become 
perfectly  sweet  and  fit  for  use. 

Stak  Apple. — Chrysophyllum  Acuminatum. — ^This  tree 
grows  to  a   large   size,   thirty   feet   or   more,  the  branches 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND    OOOKEBY.  611 

TdonA,  and  leaves  having  a  fenruginoua  down  upon  them 
Mrhen  young.  The  flower  is  of  a  pale  yellow^  and'  the 
fruit  ripens  in  October,  about  the  size  of  a  large  crab 
apple:  the  pulp  is  of  a  yellowish  color  and  firm  inside, 
the  outer  rind  being  of  a  dark  brown.  It  requires  no 
particular  soil.  There  are  several  trees  in  the  Besidency 
garden  at    Hyderabad. 

Sapota. — Achras  Sapota. — This  tree  I  have  only  met 
with  in  Bombay,  but  have  seen  the  fruit  in  December, 
brought  from  Goa,  where  no  doubt  it  was  introduced 
from  China.  The  fruit  is  the  size  of  a  fowFs  egg,  with 
a  dark  brown-colored  skin,  and  a  yellowish  pulp :  the  seed 
is  large    and  soft,   and    about  the  size  of    the  rose  apple. 

S0UB8OP. — ^Aimona  Muricata. — ^This  tree  I  have  only 
met  with  in  Bombay.  It  grows  to  about  the  same  size 
as  the  bullock's  heart.  The  fruit  is  of  a  greenish  color 
when  ripe,  and  has  a  rough  thorny  appearance :  the  flavor 
is  very  peculiar^  differing  from  the  other  varieties  of  the 
Anonacia ;  the  scent  resembles  black  currants ;  the  seeds 
are  similar  to  the  custard-apple.  The  fruit  ripens  in 
March,  and  in  the  West  Indies  is  considered  very  cooling 
in  fevers.    It  bears  only  once  a  year. 

SniAWBBiiBT. — Fragaria. — This  plant  multiplies  itself  from 
runners  and  suckers,  the  old  plant,  after  it  has  ceased 
bearing,  throwing  them  out.  As  soon  as  the  rains  have 
set  in,  these  runners  may  be  removed  into  a  nursery  bed, 
for  their  being  more  easfly  looked  after,  and  should  have 
a  space  of  nine  or  ten  inches  allowed  between  them : 
they  will  throw  out  other  runners,  the  whole  of  which 
may  be  separated   and  transplanted   at  the    proper    season. 

&i/.— They  thrive  best  in  a  light  soil  with  good  old 
stable  and  vegetable  manure  at  first,  and  as  soon  as  they 
shew  a  disposition  to  flower,  may  have  old  goats'  or 
sheep's  manure  added  around  each  plant,  a  couple  of  dou<- 
ble  handfuls  being  suflBicient* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


612  INDIAN  DOHKSTIC  ECONOUT 

CuUure. — In  no  parts  of  the  Deccan  should  plants  be 
put  out  for  fruiting  before  the  close  of  the  rains, 
the  latter  part  of  September  being  quite  early  enough. 
Suckers  that  I  planted  for  experiment  at  the  commenoe- 
ment  of  August,  grew  to  very  fine  bushes,  and  did 
nothing  for  ten  or  twelve  weeks  but  throw  out  suckers, 
which  were  continually  removed,  and  after  all  fruited 
badly :  the  finest  and  most  prolific  crops  were  got  from 
suckers  put  out  in  the  beginning  of  October.  Some 
strawberries  were  gathered  in  November  from  the  plants 
put  out  in  August,  but  they  were  so  few  as  in  no  way 
to  induce  me  to  try  the  experiment  again.  Varieties 
can  only  be  procured  from  seed;  and  to  procure  the 
seed,  select  the  finest  ripe  fruit,  rub  it  on  a  sheet  of 
paper,  and  dry  it.  When  the  rains  commence,  soak  the 
seed  in  water,  reject  all  that  floats,  the  remainder  sow  in 
baskets  in  a  light  loam,  when  they  will  be  fit  to  remove 
in  about  six  weeks,  and  should  be  put  in  other  baskets 
four  or  five  inches  apart,  and  taken  care  of  until  ready  to 
be  transplanted  into  beds,  where  they  are  to  remain.  As 
these  plants  throw  out  suckers  very  fast,  they  must  be 
constantly  looked  after,  and  removed,  unless  you  have 
a  scarcity  of  plants.  They  will  commence  bearing  in  six 
months    from  the   time  of  sowing  the  seed. 

You  may,  as  soon  as  the  rains  have  ceased,  put  your 
suckers  that  have  rooted  into  square  beds,  each  not  less 
than  one  foot  apart,  five  in  a  row :  this  will  give  you 
twenty-five  in  each  bed,  as  many  as  can  be  easily  looked 
after  and  gathered  without  trampling  on  the  bed  and 
thereby  injuring  the  plants.  When  the  earth  is  of  a 
clayey  consistence,  I  have  seen  the  strawberry  cultivated 
on  ridges.  Some  think  this  is  a  good  plan,  but  I  prefer 
the  beds :  however,  it  can  be  easily  tried.  It  is  sometimes 
necessary,  in  consequence  of  flooding  the^  beds,  to  put  tiles 
under  the  fruit  to  keep  it  clean,  but  it  also  attracts  the 
notice  of  the  birds ;  if  straw  or   grass  is    used,  then  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AND  COOKXRT.  613 

chances  are  that  white  ants  destroy  your  plants.  This  it 
is  that  makes  some  persons  prefer  the  ridge  system  of 
growing,  as  thay  say  the  fruit  is  cleaner  in  consequence : 
all  I  know  is,  that  fine  fruit  may  be  grown  either  ways ; 
and  if  on  ridges,  the  same  distance  must  be  allowed  be- 
tween the  plants  as  in  beds— and  even  in  the  latter  the 
plants  may  be  put  on  raised  cones  of  earth.  The  com- 
mon vegetable  manure  is  all  that  is  required  at  first  until 
near  flowering,  when  a  handful  or  two  of  goats's  or  sheep's 
dung  should  be  put  round  the  plant,  opening  the  earth 
and  scraping  it  together.  Water  during  the  evening  and 
very   early   of  a  morning. 

Tamasind. — ^Tamarindus  Indica.^N.  Imalee  Imbelle. — 
This  tree  is  too  well  known  to  need  any  description  here. 
The  red  Tamarind,  which  is  scarce,   is  the  most  valuable. 

Walnut.— Aleurites  Triloba.— This  species  grows  to  a 
very  great  size,  large  leaves,  three  or  five-lobed:  bears  a 
fruit  resembling  in  appearance  the  English  walnut:  the 
kernel  is  sweet  flavored,  but  is  considered  unwholesome. 
The  natives  express  an  oil  from  it,  and  say  that  the  fruit 
must  be  kept  for  one  year,  when  it  may  be  eaten.  Very 
common  about  Hyderabad. 

Wahpee  Trbe.— Cookia  Punctada.— This  bears  a  rough- 
skinned  fruit  in  April  and  May,  which  grows  in  clusters, 
contaning  a  sweetish  acid  juice,  resembling  black  currant 
in  flavor.  It  grows  to  a  large  tree,  and  has  very  dark 
green  shining  leaves.  Bather  ornamental,  and  requires 
very   little  care. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDEX 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDEX. 


Acid  of  Lemon,  Artificial, 
Adrttk,  GKnger,  Cultivation, 
Aiguillettes  aux  Huitres, 
Ajmood,  Parsley, 
Ajowan,  Lovage, 
AJamode,  Beef  or  Yeal, 

„        Another, 
Alderman  in  Chaini , 
Ale  Posset, 

Alligator  Pear,  Cultivation, 
Allspice, 

„       Cake, 


„       Tincture, 
Almonds, 

„       Biscuits, 
„       Butter, 

Cake, 
„       Cheese  Cakes, 
„       Cream, 
„       Custard, 
„       Devilled, 
„       Drink  or  Orgeat, 
„       Paste, 
„       Puffs, 

Bice    Cup    Pud- 
ding, 
Soup, 
Aloo,  Potatoe, 
Alterative  Ball, 
Ambaree  kee  Bahjee,  Hemp- 
leaved  Hibiscus, 
American  Buns, 
Anasphul,  Star  Anise, 
Anchovy, 

„   Butter^ 


Page 
252 
575 
103 
576 
676 
133 
134 
180 
319 
687 
349 
292 
349 
349 
809 
307 
809 
292 
272 
814 
811 
235 
342 
809 
271 

276 

62 

576 

48 

576 
803 
576 
234 
234 


Page 
284 
234 
241 
118 
113 
235 
235 
852 


Anchovy  Powder, 

„       Sandwich, 

„       Another, 

„       Sauce, 

„       Another, 

„       Toast, 

„       Another, 
Anisette  Cordial, 
Ants,  red,  black  or  white, 

to  destroy,  532,565 

Antelope,  remarks  on,  209 

Apple,     Cultivation, 

„       Dumpling, 

„       Fritters, 

„       Another, 

„       Pudding, 

„       Sauce, 

„       Sauce  for  Geese, 
and  roast  Pork, 

„       Tart, 

„    Creamed, 
Apricot,  Cidtivation}» 

„       Fritters, 

„       Ice  Cream, 

„       Jam, 

„       Marmalade, 

„       Pudding, 
Argand  Lamps, 
Armenian  Cement, 
Arrowroot, 

„       Blancmange, 

„       Cake, 

„       Jelly, 

„       Milk, 

„       Pudding, 

„       Water, 
Artichokes,  to  dress, 
f3 


688 
287 
290 
291 
276 
118 

116 
269 
270 
589 
291 


328 
328 
277 
521 
523 
299 
811 
299 
319 
318 
277 
819 
212 


Digitized  by 


Google 


618 

IISDEX. 

Page 

P.«e 

Artichokes,  Blanc, 

212 

Baking, 

304 

99 

Bottoms, 

212 

Baked  Fish, 

90 

9y 

to  dry 

»9 

Murrell, 

98 

and  preserve, 

213 

Bakla  Garden  Bean, 

577 

>} 

en   Ca- 

f9 

Zun,  Kidney  Beani 

577 

napes. 

212 

Balachong, 

237 

» 

Jerusalem,    to 

99 

Another, 

237 

dress. 

214 

Baldness, 

536 

ft 

99     Another, 

214 

Balsamum  Yitae, 

348 

9t 

Pried, 

213 

Bamboo 

pickle. 

247 

99 

Soup. 

64 

Bandoline"  for  the  hair. 

636 

ii 

9,  Another, 

'64 

Barley 

Mead. 

343 

Ash. 

877 

»9 

Sugar, 

340 

99 

Agra  Sheer,  ' 

383 

it 

Water, 

343 

» 

Bavurtha, 

881 

BaqjeroB, 

576 

99 

Bogurrag, 

879 

Banl  U 

»  cultivate, 

559 

f» 

Derbahesth, 

883 

99 

Vinegar, 

254 

>» 

Jow, 

382 

Batter, 

290 

»» 

KooshthuUee, 

881 

99 

for  frying  fish. 

90 

>• 

Lingra  Jagurath, 

880 

II 

99          Native, 

90 

>l 

Lnngara  Chasne- 

91 

Pudding, 

277 

dar. 

880 

11 

„      Another, 

278 

»9 

Mahecha, 

882 

Beans, 

to  dress, 

216 

1* 

Masthana, 

878 

>i 

Broad    and    Wind 

[- 

9> 

Myhee  Jognrath, 

888 

sor.  Cultivation 

.  559 

99 

„        „  Ano- 

99 

Prench  to  dress. 

216 

ther, 

884 

99 

„    bladL  and 

» 

Makoodee  Koofta, 

878 

yellow.  Cul- 

91 

Sun^shere, 

879 

tivation, 

559 

91 

Venison, 

204 

99 

Prench  a  la  Pran- 

Asparagus,  to  dress, 

214 

caise. 

217 

»» 

Peas, 

216 

}> 

iL  hi  poulette. 

217 

99 

Soup, 

64 

91 

Astringent  Lotion» 

48 

lette. 

217 

Athole  Brose, 

847 

Beastings, 

57 

Anrnngabad  Price    Cur* 

Bechan^  white  sauce, 

118 

rent, 

508 

11 

9,  Another, 

114 

Ayahs, 

8.4,5 

Beef,  ] 

remarks  on, 

133 

if 

to  Pickle, 

146 

B 

}9 

or  Veal  Alamode, 

138 

Baba, 

295 

99 

99    99    Another, 

184 

Bacon,  to  boil. 

172 

99 

Bouilli  and  soup. 

66 

7» 

to  cure  dry, 

172 

19 

Cheek  stewed. 

145 

>> 

and  Beans, 

173 

99 

CoUuned  and  served 

>> 

and  eggs, 

174 

in  various  ways. 

135 

91 

and  peas, 

173 

99 

,9          Another, 

135 

}* 

Slices,  filed, 

173 

11 

Dutch, 

148 

9» 

to  preserve  from 

II 

Edge  bone. 

136 

173 

» 

Extract* 

189 

Digitized  by 


Google 


INDEX. 


619 


Page 

Pige 

Beef,  Fried, 

137 

Kid. 

472 

„     Fillet  braised, 

139 

Pork, 

472 

„     Glaze, 

140 

Country  cx)med  and  salted 

„     GobbiU. 

143 

meat, 

473 

„     Gravy, 

66 

Poultry, 

473 

„     Grilled, 

136 

Fish, 

474 

„     Broiled, 

136 

Fruit, 

476 

„     Hamburg, 

142 

Vegetables, 

476 

„     Hunters, 

i41 

Greens, 

477 

„     Hanricot, 

141 

Sweet  herbs. 

477 

„      Kidney's  fried. 

138 

Wines,  Spirits,  kc. 

477 

„         „    Stewed, 

139 

Miscellaneous  Articles, 

478 

„     Marrow  bones. 

146 

Fish,  Fowls,  &c.           486,487 

^     Mince  Scollops, 

144 

Fruits, 

488 

„     Olives, 

144 

,,       Berberry, 

590 

„     Palates, 

139 

Bhang- u-Gonduna)  Indian 

„     Potted, 

142 

chive. 

577 

„     Pudding, 

137 

Bheendee,  Bandaky, 

577 

,.     Ribs, 

135 

Bhere  fruit,  cultivation. 

592 

„     Bound, 

136 

Bilimbi, 

690 

„     Sausages, 

144 

Biscuits, 

807 

„     and  Oyster  Sausages^ 

144 

„     Carraway, 

296 

„     Scollops,  Scotch, 

143 

„    Devilled,  with  Cheese, 

235 

„      Sirloin, 

138 

„         „    plain. 

235 

„        „     cold  to  dress  the 

„         „        „  Another, 

235 

inside  of. 

143 

„    Ladies  fingers. 

296 

„     Soup, 

80 

,.    Mflk, 

307 

„      Steaks, 

136 

„     Powder, 

308 

„        „    Italian, 

139 

„     Pudding, 

278 

,>        M    Pie, 

137 

„    Sponge, 

298 

„      Stewed, 

139 

„     Savoy, 

808 

„      Strong   savory  gravy 

„     Sweet, 

807 

brown  sauc^ 

119 

Bitters, 

346 

,,     suet  for  puff  paste. 

264 

Bhkckberry,  Cultivation, 

590 

„     Tea, 

141 

Blacking, 

524 

Beer,  to  bottle, 

531 

„     Another, 

526 

Beet-root,  to  dress. 

215 

Blancmange, ._ 

.310 

PicUe, 

247 

,,             Arrowroot, 

311 

„         Red  and  white, 

>i    F)ggs,  for  a  hen's 

cultivation. 

560 

nest, 

310 

Soup, 

74 

„    Plain, 

310 

Stew, 

215 

»    Rice, 

811 

„    Another, 

215 

Bleeding, 

546 

Bengal  Price  Current, 

467 

Blistering  Ointment, 

48 

Bread,  Butter,  Milk, 

467 

Boiling  Meat  and  Vegeta- 

Venison, Beef, 

468 

bles, 

107 

Veal, 

469 

Boiled  Salmon, 

98 

Mutton, 

470 

Bologna  Sausages, 

174 

Lamb, 

471 

1     „          „    Another, 

175 

Digitized  by 


Google 


620 


INDEX. 


P«ge 

!•*«« 

Bologna  Sausages,  Anotheir 

,175 

Bread  Brown, 

SM 

Bombay  Price  Current, 

453 

„     Crumbs,  fried, 

192 

Beef, 

453 

„    Pudding, 

279 

Veal, 

454 

„     and  Butter  PuddiDg, 

279 

Mutton, 

454 

„    Brown  Pudding, 

278 

Kid, 

455 

„    Sauce, 

114 

455 

„        „     Another, 

115 

Pork,  fresh  and  salted. 

456 

„    Sippets, 

198 

PouHiy. 

456 

Brianee, 

384 

Fruits  of  sorts,  fresh. 

456 

Zarebrian  punnezee. 

3a4 

Ditto,  dry. 

457 

„  ..    Junthur, 

S85 

Bread,  Flour,  Eolong,  &c. 

457 

Khasah, 

389 

Milk  and  Butter, 

458 

„      '  Khoorasanee, 

386 

Firewood, 

458 

Mahee, 

387 

Oil,  Candles,  and  Soap, 

458 

MaheeBaykhar 

,  387 

Sugar  and  Ghee,  of 

„        Noormahalee, 

384 

sorts, 

458 

„Mahee  Noormahalee, 

388 

Grain  of  sorts, 

459 

„        Punnezee, 

384 

Rice  of  sorts, 

459 

„        Roomee, 

385 

Batty, 
Sundries, 

460 

Brine,  to  make. 

147 

460 

„     Strong, 

147 

Vegetables, 

460 

Brinjals,  cultivation. 

578 

Bombay   Money,    Weights 

Chutney,  pbim. 

856 

and  Measures, 

461 

„            „      sour. 

257 

New  weights  and  liquid 

„            „      with  eggs. 

267 

measures, 

462 

Brioches  au  fromage. 

245 

Goldsmiths'  weights  in 

„        Paste, 

293 

Guzerat, 

464 

„        Gake  Indian, 

295 

Pearl  weights  in  Bom- 

Brocoli, to  dress, 

216 

bay, 

464 

„            Cultivation, 

560 

Dry  Measure, 

464 

„            and  buttered 

Liquid  Measure, 

464 

eggs. 

216 

Commercial  Weights, 

465 

Broiling, 

111 

Bombay  Pudding, 

278 

Broiled  Fish, 

89 

Bombay  Servants, 

3 

„        Eeb. 

92 

Boodunk,  Penny  Royal, 

577 

„        Cod  sounds. 

94 

Boorunk,  Kak,    Sweet  Ba 

- 

„        Fresh  Salmon, 

99 

sU, 

577 

„    ^    Mutton 'chops. 

159 

Boota,  Maize, 

577 

„    '       „        Kidneys, 

160 

Boor-Cole,  Cultivation, 

560 

„     .    Ham, 

171 

Boots  and  Shoes,  to  make 

Broth    herbs.    Soup    roots. 

water  proof, 

530 

and  Seasoning, 

61 

Bourbon, 

292 

Broths  to  clarify, 

86 

Brain  Sauce,  two  ways. 

115 

„        Chicken, 

86 

Brawn  of  pig's  head, 

169 

Mutton, 

87 

„      of  calfs  head, 

170 

„      for  sick. 

86 

Bread  fruit  tree, 

590 

Pot  top, 

86 

„    to  make, 

304 

„        Sheep's  head. 

87 

'  „    and  Cakes, 

377 

„        Veal, 

S5 

Digitized  by 


Google 


INDEX. 


621 


Page 


Page 


Browninj 

;  for  Sauces  or 

c 

— o- 

Soups 

» 

116 

Brown 

Bread  Pudding, 

278 

Cabbage, 

cultivation, 

560 

»» 

Onion  Ghravy  Sauce, 

114 

n 

to  boil. 

217 

»» 

Soup, 

60 

i» 

Pickle. 

247 

Bubble  and  Squeak    of 

,1 

to  stew. 

217 

Beef, 

142 

11 

Bed,  to  stew, 

218 

Buffaloes  to  choose. 

13 

Cakes, 

Allspice, 

292 

Bugs,  tc 

►  destroy. 

583 

9> 

Almond, 

292 

Bukum, 

Narrow-leaved  Bra- 

>» 

Cheese, 

272 

siletto, 

578 

/ 

»» 

Arrowroot, 

299 

Buller  smaU  bean. 

678 

)> 

Baba, 

295 

BuUock' 

s  Heart,  cultiva* 

19 

Bourbon, 

292 

tion, 

591 

>, 

Cheese, 

272 

Bunburbuttee,  Duffin  Bean, 

578 

9) 

>,        plain, 

272 

Buns,  tc 

»   make. 

302 

»» 

Cocoanut, 

295 

t> 

„     Another, 

302 

11 

Currant, 

297 

99 

American, 

303 

11 

Common, 

295 

»> 

Bath, 

303 

1> 

Good  Friday, 

296 

99 

„    Another, 

303 

11 

Lemon  Cheese, 

272 

9> 

Cross, 

302 

9> 

Plain  for  children 

297 

99 

Plum, 

302 

11 

„      Pound, 

297 

Burns 

and    Scalds    to 

11 

Plum, 

297 

cure. 

543 

11 

Pound, 

298 

Burdwan  Stew, 

192 

11 

Queen, 

296 

Burnt  Butter, 

131 

11 

Hatafia 

289 

>» 

Cream, 

315 

11 

„    Another, 

300 

Burrie 

Toovar,     Tiarge 

11 

Bice, 

800 

dhal, 

578 

11 

Sally  Luns, 

301 

Bustard 

f 

201 

11 

Seed, 

300 

»> 

Scallops, 

202 

11 

Short, 

300 

9> 

Salmi, 

202 

»1 

Sponge, 

298 

Butanee 

,  common  Pea, 

579 

11 

Tea, 

298 

Butter,  observations  on, 

52 

11 

„  Another 

298 

9> 

Almond, 

309 

11 

Twelfth, 

801 

»» 

from  Cream, 

52 

Calcutta 

Money,    Weights 

» 

99      „      and 

and  Measures, 

495 

Milk, 

53 

Calves*  feet,  Jelly, 

328 

9» 

„  Clotted 

11 

head  Bigaree, 

151 

Cream,  in  a 

11 

„     Russian  Me- 

few minutes. 

53 

thod, 

151 

»> 

Yellow,  to  make. 

51 

11 

„      to  boil. 

150 

»» 

Burnt, 

131 

11 

„     brawn  of, 

170 

M 

Clarified, 

131 

11 

„    dressed,    to 

)) 

Melted, 

131 

11 

„       Hash, 

150 

»1 

to  preserve, 

52 

11 

„    Potted, 

162 

V 

Another, 

52 

>» 

„    to  roast, 

150 

»1    ' 

Eggs, 

131 

Calves  to  fatten, 

13 

)> 

„     Another, 

132 

Camp  V 

inegar. 

254 

Digitized  by 


Google 


92% 


INDEX. 


Candied  Orauge  Peel, 
Cape  Gbosebeny, 
Caper  Sauce, 
Capillaire, 
Capilotade, 
Capon  to  fatten, 

„        to  roast, 
Capsicum,  cultivation, 
Caramel, 

Basket, 
,,        Nuts  and  Almond 
in, 
Caroel  or  Argand  Lamps, 
Cardoon,  cultivation, 
„        or  thistle  head  to 
dress, 
Carp,  to  dress, 
„  to  boil, 

Eoes, 
„  to  stew. 

Carpets, 
Carraway  Biscuits, 

Drops, 
Carrots,  cultivation, 
„         to  boil, 
.,         Mashed, 
Pudding, 
„  „        Another, 

Pur&  of. 
Soup, 
Carson^s  machine  for  salt- 
ing meat, 
Cashewuut,  cultivation » 
Cashmere  Chutney, 
Casks,  to  clean. 
Castor  Oil, 
Caudle, 
Cauliflower, 
„        to  boil, 
„        with  Parmesan 

Cheese, 
„         Pickle, 
Cayenne   Essence, 
Pepper, 
„        Salt, 
„        or  Chilli  Vine- 

Celeriac,  cultivation, 
Celery, 


p«g* 

K»c 

332 

Celery, 

fiasenoe. 

242 

591 

)) 

Sauce, 

120 

116 

1) 

Seed, 

220 

338 

» 

Stew  brown. 

220 

193 

n 

white. 

220 

22 

Cement,  Armenian, 

523 

182 

11 

China, 

523 

562 

)) 

„        Another, 

523 

273 

„ 

Wilson's 

523 

308 

»i 

„    Another,  for 

Alabaster,  &c 

524 

274 

Ceylon 

Money,    Weights 

521 

and  Measures, 

606 

562 

Champagne  Punch, 

347 

Chatneys, 

377 

218 

Cheese 

1 

236 

91 

}, 

fresh. 

55 

91 

» 

„    Another, 

55 

92 

, 

Cake, 

272 

92 

: 

» 

„    Main, 

272 

531 

1 

„    Paste, 

267 

296 

n 

Cream, 

64 

308 

», 

Fresh, 

55 

562 

» 

„    Another, 

55 

218 

1 

, 

Devilled, 

236 

280 

> 

Pounded, 

238 

279 

> 

to  Stew,             237,245 

279 

1 

, 

Toast, 

238 

218 

f 

„    Another, 

238 

58 

Chervil  Sauce, 

120 

Cheese  to  stew  (Another,) 

245 

146 

Cherry 

,  cultivation. 

59S 

592 

» 

Water  Ice, 

366 

257 

Ch'hota    Kulpa  Indian 

526 

Borage, 

579 

544 

Cheena,     Chick    pea    or 

322 

gram, 

579 

248 

Chicken, 

190 

219 

1) 

Broiled  or  grilled. 

190 

» 

Broth, 

86 

219 

), 

Cold,  fried. 

192 

248 

1) 

to  fatten. 

22 

253 

1, 

Friar's, 

191 

253 

,, 

Fricassee, 

190 

253 

,) 

Patties  wiUi  Ham, 

192 

,> 

in  Peas, 

191 

255 

>» 

Pie, 

191 

564 

,1 

toPulL 

191 

563 

cha 

ly  rusk. 

253 

Digitized  by 


Google 


INDEX. 

623 

Page 

Page 

Cliina  Cement, 

523 

Cloth,  to  remove  wax  stains 

„        ,,        Another. 

523 

from, 

528 

„      and  Glass  to  clean. 

526 

Cocoa, 

885 

GMps,  Lemon, 

331 

Cocoanut,  cultivation. 

593 

„      Orange, 

332 

Pickle, 

248 

Chives,  cultivation, 

564 

„         Cakes, 

295 

Chocolate, 

334 

Oil,  to  purify. 

544 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream, 

365 

Pudding, 

280 

"Cholera  Mixture,  Walla- 

Cod  fish,  to  boil. 

94 

ceV' 

542 

Broiled, 

95 

1)          >f     with  Opium, 

546 

„        to  crimp. 

94 

„           „     without  Opi- 

„       Boasted  or  baked 

,    95 

um, 

546 

„         Sounds, 

94 

„     Treatment  of, 

546 

n        to  stew  in  sliced. 

94 

„     Pills,        • 

547 

Coffee,  to  make. 

335 

Chookeh,  Sorrel, 

679 

„     to  make  in  a  big- 

Choolaee, Spinacea  Tetran* 

gin. 

336 

dra. 

679 

„         n     where  much 

Chooprce  Aloo, 

580 

is  required. 

336 

Chotie  Sayme  ke  pullie. 

„         „        ,,  Another, 

336 

Native  Bean, 

579 

Coffee  with  Milk, 

337 

Chuchoonda,  Snake  gourd, 

579 

,,         Ice  Cream, 

864 

Chuckoonda,  oonunon  Beet, 

580 

Cold  Cream, 

538 

Chupatees, 

452 

„,   Meat  Sauce, 

121 

Chutneys, 

256 

„    Tankard, 

346 

Observation  on  Toma- 

„            Another, 

346 

ta. 

258 

Colouring  cordials, 

851 

BrinjflJ,  Plain, 

.256 

„    for  Ices, 

862 

„         Sour, 

257 

„    for  JeUieSi  Cream, 

„         with  Eggs, 

257 

Ices,  &c., 

324 

Cashmere, 

257 

Colic  (m  horses), 

43 

Delhi, 

260 

„     Symptoms  of, 
n     Treatment  of. 

44 

Dinner,  plain. 
Dried  Mangoe, 

960 

44 

257 

Cooks,  remarks  on, 

7 

^weet.  Green  Mangoe, 

259 

Cooking  utensils, 

45 

Green  Plantain, 

257 

Cookery,  Oriental,  remarks 

Bed  Tamarind, 

258 

on. 

373 

„    Another, 

258 

Cooling  Fluids, 

354 

Ripe  Tomatas, 

.258 

Commercial  Weights  of 

TomaU  with  Tamarinds, 

259 

India, 

509 

TiUseed, 

259 

Common  Cakes, 

295 

Tamarind, 

261 

Paste, 

264 

„     Green, 

261 

Coratch, 

25S 

„    and  Green  Ginger,  S58 

),     Indian  or  chilly 

Cinnamon  Essence, 

848 

rusk. 

258 

„       Tincture, 

349 

Cordials, 

351 

Clarified  Butter  or  Ghee, 

181 

„    Balls, 

47 

„      Milk  Whey, 

822 

„    Green, 

851 

„      Syrup, 

888 

1       „    Pink  or  red. 

851 

Digitized  by 


Google 


624 


INDEX. 


Page 

V 

f*f 

Cordials,  Yellow, 

351 

Crust,  for  Venison   Pasty, 

SIO 

Cotelettes  de  vean, 

155 

Cucumbers,  cultivation, 

664 

Country  Captain, 
Cows,  remarks  on, 

193 

„     to  dress, 

220 

.     11 

„     and  Peas  Soup, 

69 

„    heels  or  Ox  feet  to 

„     to  stew, 

220 

dress, 

145 

„            „    Another, 

220 

„  Potted, 

145 

„     Stuffed, 

S20 

„      „     ..  Another, 

145 

„     Vinegar, 

254 

Crabs, 

95 

„            „    Another, 

254 

„    dressed, 

95 

Curacoa  Cream, 

35S 

„    or  Lobsters,  to  boil. 

95 

Curd,  plain, 

272 

„     Lobsters,  or  Crayfish, 

Puffs, 

271 

to  butter. 

96 

Currant  Cakes, 

297 

„    or  Lobsters,  cutlets 

„       Dumpling, 

288 

of, 

96 

.,       JeUy,          • 

325 

„    Imitation  of. 

239 

„        Water  Ice, 

866 

Cracks  in  chuuam  roofs. 

524 

Curries, 

406 

Cream  Cheese, 

54 

Quoormah, 

406 

„     Scalded, 

60 

„    Aiiother, 

406 

„     Denons  Ice  clotted. 

51 

Fish. 

407 

„     Almond, 

314 

„    Another, 

407 

„     Burnt, 

315 

Fowl, 

408 

„        „    Another, 

315 

Mathee  Bi^  and  Fen- 

„    of  Cinnamon, 

353 

nel  with  meat. 

408 

«»     of  Citron, 

353 

Doepeaza  Thooraee. 

409 

1)     of  Cloves, 

352 

„  '     Hnrwee, 

409 

n     of  Curacoa, 

353 

„        Buthaloo, 

410 

n     Ice, 

362 

Kulleah    Chowlahee 

410 

n    Imitation  of. 

315 

,.        Mae, 

410 

1)     Italian, 

314 

„        Another, 

411 

If        „    Another, 

815 

Bizah  Sadah, 

411 

f)     Lemon, 

814 

Kulleah  Bizah, 

412 

)9     Lemon  firm. 

315 

Doepeaza     Dilaee      Kha- 

»»     of  Orange, 
1)     Pyramid, 

313 

nee, 

412 

313 

„            Gheelanee, 

415 

>»     Raspberry, 
»>     de  Rose, 

316 

„            Hadus, 

413 

353 

Kulleah  Jogooranth, 

414 

>,     SoHd, 

315 

Doepeaza  Pulwull, 

415 

*,     Vanilla, 

316 

Kulleah  Nargiss^ 

415 

11        ,1          Another, 
Cresses, 

353 
255 

Kulleah  Koondun, 

416 
41S 

„        „       Vin^ar, 

255 

„      oheeraza, 

416 

Crimped  Cod, 

94 

Doepeaza  Sheeraza, 

417 

Crisp  paste. 

267 

Kulleah  Zu&an  Kussah, 

417 

Croquettes  of  Powl, 

184 

Keema    Kulleah    Kush- 

of  Veal  or  Fowl, 

164 

mere, 

417 

Cross  Buns, 

302 

Kalleah  Falsali, 

418 

Crustades, 

269 

„     Bauthamee, 

418 

Crust  Paste,  short, 

264 

,.     Umbab. 

419 

Digitized  by 


Google 


1KI5£X. 


625 


KuUeah  Booranee,  419 

Doepeaza  KurnUah,  420 

Kulleah  Yekhunee,  •    420 

,,      Doolmah  Kurra- 

lah,  42i 

Doepeaza  Kussah^  422 
>,        Kooftha  Low- 

abdar^  462 

Kulleah  Doepeaaa,  422 

„      Bundgooday,  423 

Doepeaza  -  Mushfaawdy,  •  423 

yf        Quoormah,  -  424 

jf        Another,  •  424 

„        Kitcherie,  -425 

Kulleah  Sadah^  425 

,f      Chashffeedar,  426 
y,      Doorraj  aad 

Lowah,  426 

Curry  pak,  cultivation,  593 

Custard,  Almond,  311 

„          „        Another,  812 

„        Madeira,  312 

„         Onmge,  313 

„         Plain,  812 

Pudding,  280 

Cutlets  of  Veal,  or  Powl, 

with  Love  Apple  Sauce,  154 

„         Maintenon,  159 
„        of  Craba  or  Lob- 

„             aters,  96 

„         Oyster,  102 


Dairy  Utensils,  '&c.  49 

Dhall,  ojr  Split  Peas  Soup,  78 

Darcheenee,  Ciunamon,  580 

Devilled  Almonds,  235 
„        Biscuits  wiih 

Cheeise,  235 

„               „     Plain,  .  235 
n               „      „  Another,  285 

„         Chedse,  236 

„         Legs  of  Poultry,  286 

„         Liver,  236 
„         Sauce  for  grilled 

ipe'at  iseasoned,  236 

Devonshire    Junket,  56,318 

*,  n  •    Another,       57 


P»re 

Devonshire  Clotted  Cream,  51 

Syllabub,  318 

Dhan  or  Choul,  Hice,  580 

Delhi  Chutney, .  260 

Dhuneea,  Conander  seed,  680 
Dill  Passund,  Small  Fitop- 

kin,  680 
Dinapoor  Dig|9ia,  Farm 

Price  Currtiit,  489 
Live  Stock,     .  489 
Salted  and  cured  provi- 
sions, 489 
;  Pickles,  Preserves,  fee,  491 
Vegetable  and    ffolver 

garden  seed,  493 

-  Bazar  Prices,  494 

Dinner  Chuttiey,-  plain,  260 
Directions  to  trim  Clark's 

'  Diamond  Cafoe):  Lamp,  522 

Dish  Covers,  to  clean,  527 
Dr,  Traill's  indelible*  and 

unchangeable  mk,  528 

Dog  bite,  cure  for,  541 

Dolichos  Soya  Sauce j  128 

Dripping,  to  cktify,  264 

Drying  Oil  fot  paiht,  530 

Ducks,  26 

„         Stuffing  for,  83 

„         to  fatten,  23 

„         to  dress,  196 

„        Dressed,  ta  hash,  197 

„        to  roast,  196 

„        to  boil,  196 

„         Gravy  and  stuf- 

'  fing,  196 

Stew,  197 

Ducklings,  to  dress,  196 

Ducks,  ivild,  to  dress,  197 

„         „     Sauces  for,  128 

Dumpling,  Apple,  287 

„       Currant,  288 

Norfolk,  288 

Plain,  287 

Suet,  283 

Dutch  Beef,  - 143 


Edge  bone  of  Beef, 
Eels, 

g3 


135 
92 


Digitized  by 


Google 


626 


INDEX. 


Page 
Eek,  to  Boil,  93 
to  BroU,  93 
„        to  Fry,  93 
„        Pie,  93 
Spitch  Oock  93 
Stew,  92 
Soup,  58 
„      plain,  69 
-BgRs,  remarks  on,  187 
„        Balls,  84 
„      for  Soup,  74 
Plant,  564 
enSurpriae,  188 
to  Boil,  188 
Broaill&,  187 
„        Buttered,  131 
»       Ano- 
ther, 132 
,,        to  Choose,  187 
Fried,  188 
„        for  a  hen^s  nest 

Blancmange,  310 

„        Minced,  189 

„        and  Bacon,  174 

Poached,  189 

„        to  preserve,  187 

Salad,  189 

„        Sauce,  121' 

Embrocation  for  braises,  4  7 

Endive,  to  cultivate,  564 

„        to  dress  as  Sa* 

lad,  221 
„        with  Gravy  of 

Veal,  221 
„        with  Sippets,  Sweet 

Bread,  &c.  221 

Ervie,  580 

Essence,  Allspice,  849 

Cayenne,  253 

of  Celery,  242 

Cinnamon,  348 

of  Ham,  242 

Lemon  peel,  243 

Mushroom,  243 

Oyster,  242 
Escalopes  de  Bis  de  veau  en 

caisses,  155 

Eye  Plies,  536 

Extract  of  Beef,  139 


I^ 


» 


Falsa, 

593 

Fawns 

f 

203 

Farces 

• 

80 

Farm  and  Poultry  yard. 

U 

Fennel, 

222 

Fish,  remarks  on. 

88 

„ 

to  bake. 

90 

1, 

„      Another, 

91 

)) 

Broiled, 

89 

»i 

Cuny, 

407 

), 

„    Another, 

407 

»« 

batter  for  fiying. 

90 

», 

native  batter  for 

firying, 

90 

,. 

Force   meat   for 

Soup, 

70 

»» 

Fried  (Piquante, 

sauce  for. 

lie 

»» 

Liver  sauce  for. 

125 

>» 

Pickle  for  any 

small  Fish, 

89 

»? 

To  preserve. 

89 

i> 

Sauce,  Quin's, 

116 

» 

Soup, 

69 

9« 

„      Another, 

70 

1> 

Tamarind, 

42S 

>• 

„    Another, 

428 

11 

„    Another, 

429 

w 

Carp,  to  l)oil. 

91 

Fig,  cultivation, 

594 

>f 

Jam, 

329 

Floating  Island, 

317 

Fleas, 

to  destroy. 

535 

Flies,  to  destroy. 

536 

» 

to  drive  from  a  room. 

536 

>i 

Eye, 

536 

FUp, 

349 

t» 

Another, 

349 

|9 

Wine, 

349 

Florican, 

207 

Flummery  of  Bice, 

821 

if 

of  Wheat, 

320 

Fomentations, 

41 

Fondeau, 

245 

Fondeaus  en  caisses. 

245 

Force  meat  or  Faroes, 

materials  for. 


SO 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INOBX. 


6S7 


Forcemeat,  for  fisb, 

„  for  Mock  Turtle, 

„  for  Soup, 

„  for  Veal, 

Fowls, 

„    management  of, 

„    to  boil, 

„    or  Turkey,  to  bone, 
without  opening, 

„    for  Fricassees,  Cur- 
ries, and  Pies  to 
bone. 
Fowl  Croquettes, 

„    Curry, 

„    to  dress  cold, 

„    to  fatten, 

„    Fricassee, 

„         „    Another, 

„    Hashed  with  Game,  or 
Babbit, 

„    Minced, 

,)    with  Oysters, 

„    Bissoles  of, 

„    to  Boast, 

„    or  Chicken  Salad, 

„    or  Turkey  pulled, 

„    Turkish, 
Fnnohipan, 

Freezing  Mixtures  with 
Ice  or  Snow, 

„      without, 
French  Polish, 

„      Pan  Cakes/ 
Fresh   Cheese, 

„        „     Another, 
Friifr's  Chicken, 
Frioandellans, 
Frioassee  Chicken, 

,,         of  Fowl, 
Fiicftsseed  Lamb  Se- 
crets, 
Fried  Oysters, 
Fritters, 

„    Apple, 

„    Apricot, 

»    Lemon  or  Orange, 
Fnuts  in  JeUy^ 
Frying, 
Furmenty, 


Page 
83 
82 
70 
83 
19 
^19 
182 

177 


178 
184 
408 
186 
22 
183 
184 

185 
184 
185 
184 
181 
186 
182 
183 
281 

858 
857 
525 
290 
55 
55 
191 
165 
190 
188 

166 
105 
290 
290 
291 
291 
324 
110 
319 


Page 


Game, 

801 

„    Bustard, 

201 

„    Ducks,   Sec.,   Sauces 

'    for. 

128 

„    Fawns, 

20S 

„    Florican, 

207 

„     Hare, 

203 

„    Partridge, 

206 

„     Pea  fowl. 

20« 

„    Pheasants, 

206 

„    Plovers, 

207 

„     Quails, 

207 

„     Snipe, 

207 

„    Wild  Goose, 

209 

„    Wood  Cock, 

209 

GajuT, 

580 

Garlic, 

221 

„     to  cultivate. 

565 

„     Sauce, 

121 

„     Vinegar, 

256 

Genoese  Sauce, 

118 

„           „    for  Fish, 

118 

Geese,  to  rear, 

26 

„    Stuffing  for. 

83 

German  Pdish, 

526 

„        Salad  Sauce, 

126 

Gherkins  to  Pickle, 

248 

Giblet  Soup, 

62 

„     Stew, 

197 

GigotsLl'aU, 

168 

Ginger  Beer, 

346 

„        „    Another, 

346 

„    Bread, 

806 

„         „     Another, 

306 

„        ,y    Another, 

806 

„        „    Parliament, 

^06 

„    to  cultivate. 

576 

,,    Drops, 

389 

„    Ghreen  Preserved, 

331 

„        „    to  pickle. 

248 

„    Ice  Cream, 

363 

„    Nuts, 

306 

„        „    plain, 
„        „    Another, 

306 

306 

„        „    Another, 
»       *     Syrup,-. 

307 

339 

Glaze, 

140 

Digitized  by 


Google 


628 


n«sB:$r 


Page 

P.g« 

Glue, 

531 

H 

Gobbits  of  Beef, 

143 

Goats, 

14 

Haggis, 

289 

Good  Friday  Cake, 

296 

„        Another^ 

161 

Golden  Water,  > 

353 

Hair,  to  promote  the  growth 

Gooee,  wild, 

209 

^f'. 

537 

„     boiled,  with  Onion  . 

„     Bandoline  for, 

536 

Sance, 

194 

Ham,  to  bst0y 
1  „    to  boil. 

171 

„     Giblet  Pie, 

195 

171 

»     Mock, 

194 

„    to  pieWe, 

168 

„     to  Boast, 

194 

„     Broileds 

171 

„     Belish  foFj 

194 

„    Essence  of. 

242 

„     Sauce, 

194 

„     Mutton, 

161 

„     Yorkshire  Pie, 

195 

„    Pasty  Meat  or  Fiah  pr 

„     Stuffiing  for, 

83 

Tongue  petted,     171,172 

Gourd,  Vegetable  Marrow^ 

Hamburg  Beef, 

142 

to  dress, 

222 

Harcj  to  bone. 

179 

Gnupe,  cultivation, 

594 

„    Jugged, 

203 

„    JeUy, 

32^ 

„    toRpa*. 

203 

„     Water  Ice, 

3^6 

„     Soup, 

72 

Gravies, 

1?8 

„     Another, 

72 

,»      Beef, 

66 

„  ,  Stuffing  for. 

82 

„       for  Roast  Meat, 

129 

Haricot  of  Beef, 

141 

„      for  Boiiod  M^at, 

12? 

Hashied  Mutton, 

15S 

„       to  Clarify, 

129 

„       Game  or  Rabbiij 

185 

„       Soup,  clear. 

71 

Hasty  Baked  Puddings 

280 

„       Green  Peas  Soupy 

71 

Hibiscus,  cultivation. 

597 

i,      Brown  .  Oni- 

„       Sabdariflfa, 

597 

on, 

114 

Hog  Plum, 

597 

j,       strong  savory  or 

Hoppprs,  or  Opaa, 

452 

brown  Sauce, 

119 

Horse  Radish  Sauce, 

114 

Greftq  Petit  Pois  i  la  pqj^s  : 

„        „    Another, 

116 

Sauce, 

12i 

,,    and  Stable.^  r^narkd 

„       Ginger  Pickle,  . 

248 

on. 

30 

„       Peas,  to  boil. 

229 

„    Alterative  Balb» 

48 

Gridiron, 

lU 

„    Aperient  Clyster, 

41 

Grilla,  Sauce  for, 

12? 

„     Astringent  lotioofr, 

4a 

Griper  iu  Hoiaes,^ 

43 

„     Bleeding, 

sa 

Gnaya, 

596 

„    Blistering  Oibiment) 

48 

j,      Red  and  white,  cul- 

„     Bran, 

30 

tivatiiout 

596 

„     Broken  knees, 

37 

.       Jelly, 

326 

„     Bruises, 

3d 

Girinfla  Fowls,  to  rear. 

25 

„     Clysters, 

40 

„     to  dress, 

17? 

„     Cordials, 

47 

,       Worm, 

544 

„     Cure  for  long  white 

Quranyo  Aloo,  Red  aweet, 

worm>.  ^ 

46 

Yam, 

581 

„    Embrocation  for  bFui3T 

„      „    Lai,  Purple       • 

es, 

47 

Yam, 

581 

„     Exercise, 

30 

1 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDBX; 


629 


Page 

Horse,  Fooa>.  81 

J,    Fomeniaiipiir  41 

I  »,    Gripes  or  spasmodic 

I                 colic,  43 

„     Grooming,  35 

!          i>    Lampas,  ^^ 

„    LotioDSr  48 

„    Mwge,  42 

„     Mashes,  41 

„    Mustaird  eoibroeiiiion^      47 

„     Inflamm9ii4(»i  of  botir^ 

els,  44 

„     Poultice,  42 

„     Purgative  bulls,.  46 

„     Physickin^r,  89 

„     Saddle  galls,  42 

„     Splints,  45 

„    Thrush,  45 

„    Tonic  bails,  47 

„     Water,  86 

„     Worms,  46 

Hotch    Pbtch,  165 

Huitress,  102,103 

Htddee,  581 

Htileem,  581 

Hunter's  Beef,  141 


I 

I(je,  359 
„    to  make  by  JIaster*s 

Machine,  359 

J,    Mixture  and  process,  368 
,,    to  preserve  for  cooling 

Wines,  367 

„    preparation  of,  362 

„    colouring,  -  362 

Icing  for  Cakes,  273 

„     Tarts,  273 

Illachee,  581 

Imitation  Crab,  239 

„          Lobster,  239 

„              „     Soup,-  73 

„           Oyster  Soup,  66 

Indoor  Economy,  49 

Ingredients  for  a  Cujcry,  405 

„     Another,  405 

„    for  Curry  powder,  404 

„       „             Stuff,  402 


Page 

Ink  or  stains  removed  from 

Tables,  725 
„    Dr.    Traill's  indeli- 
ble, 528 
„     Marking,  529 
Invalid  Jelly,  337 
Inflammation  of  the  bowels 

in  Horses,  44' 

Ipar,  Thyme,  581 

Italian  Cream,  31 G 

„     Ice  Cteam,  364. 

„     Sauce,  Brown,  119 

White,  119 

„     Steaks,  136 


Jameon,  cultivation,  597' 
Jams  Apricot,  328 
„     Fig,  329 
„    and  Jelly,  BoseUe,  333 
„     Kurunder,  333 
„    Peach,  327 
„        „    with  green  Man- 
goes, 327 
„    Haspberry,  329 
„     Bed  Tamarind,  330 
Jaworie,  581 
JeDy,  Arrowroot,  319 
„     Calf  s  feet,  323 
„     Colouring  for,  324 
„     Pruite  in,  324 
„    of  Grape,  Raspberry, 

and  Currants,  325 
„     Guava,  326 
„     Invalid's,  3^7 
„     Jamoon,  326 
„     Mangoe,  332 
„..  Marisquino,  325 
„    Orange  or  Lem- 
on, 325 
„    Baspberry,  for  flavour- 
ing Cream,  325 
„  .  Sheep's  Feet,  324 
„     Tapioca,  327 
J^nisalem  Artichoke,,  214 
Jet  Polish  for  Boots,  &c.  525 
„     Dye  for  the  Hair,  538 
I  Junket,  Devonshire,  3l8 


Digitized  by 


Google 


6S0 


INDEX. 


Eala  Kustoorie, 
Kalee  Seem, 
„     Murchee, 
„     Tolsee, 
Kam  Aloov 
Kheera, 
Koolee  Begun, 
Kuddoo, 
Kokree, 
Kulaee, 
Knlmee,  Sag, 
Kult'hee, 
Kurboozah, 
Kureela, 

Kursumbal,  ke  ptillie, 
Kumruclc,  cultiyatien> 
Kamnder,  cultivation, 

„  Jam, 

Kelly's  Sauce, 
Khubabs, 

Bhyezab, 

Darahee, 

Fowl  or  Meat, 

Hoossainee, 

Kooftha  Mahee  Sha- 
my, 

Koofbhay  Shaney, 

Koofiee,  another, 

Liver  with  Oysters, 

Thoorahee, 

Khaginah, 

Korekah, 

Khanz', 

Khutaee, 

Kheemah, 

Myhee, 
„        Another, 
„        Goosthie, 

Moorug, 

Plain, 

Pursund, 

Shanah, 

Thickah, 

Thulavee, 

Thickah  Mahee,- 
Kidneys,  Beef,  Fried,- 
„  „      Stewed, 


Page 

682 
582 
582 
682 
582 
582 
582 
582 
683 
583 
683 
583 
583 
583 
583 
598 
598 
833 
125 
877 
893 
390 
397 
401 

391 
392 
893 
185 
396 
397 
400 
394 
398 
400 
394 
896 
395 
399 
399 
399 
898 
392 
391 
390 
138 
139 


Kidneys,  Mutton  witli 
Champagne, 

),         „    Bfoiled, 

„     Beef,  French  way, 

„     Veal, 
Kitcherie, 

Kitchen  Garden,  remaiis, 
on  Destroying  Insects 
on  Vegetables, 

Destroying  white  Ants, 

Preparing  ground, 

Pruning, 

Boils,  texture. 

Transplanting, 

Water, 

Wintering, 

Garden  Worms,. 

Wounds  in  trees, 


160 
160 
160 
153 
4S7 


555 
555 
555 
556 
550 
553 
554 
554 
555 
555 

162 


Lamb, 

„    Breast  stewed  with 

Cucumbers,  163 
„     do>  with  Green  Peas 

and  brown  Sauce,  164 
„     do*  with  Peas-  and 

white  Sauce,  164 

„    do.  to  Fry,  165 

„    Forequarter,  163 

„    Point  d'aspeiges,  164 

„    Fricandelians,  165 

„     Hotch-potch,  165 

„     to  boil  a  leg,  162 

„    Leg  of,  to  Boast,  162 

„    a  la  Palestine,  164 

„     Pie,  166 

„    Secrets  fricasseed,  166 

„     Shoulder  grilled,  165 

„    Petits  pois,  162 

„        ,»     alaDreuz.  166 

„     Sweetbread,  166 

„    Saddle  aux  petits  pois,  162 

Lampas,  43 

Lard,  to  purify,  263 

Larding,  180 

Legs  of  poultry,  23  6 

Lemon,  Cultivation,  598 

„     Cheese  Cakes,  272 

„     Cream,  214 


Digitized  by 


Google 


IND£X- 


631 


Page 

Lemon  Drops,  840 

«,       Grass,  566 

„       Firm  Cream;-  315 

„       lee  Cream,  368 

„       or  Lime  water  Ice,  365 

JeUy,  352 

„       or  Orange  Cream,  313 

„              „      Fritters,  291 

„  Peel,  243 
„  or  Orange  Pudding,  281 
„       or      „      peel. 

Syrup,  839 

„       and  Liver  Sauce,  125 

Pickle,  248 

Suet  Pudding,  281 

„        Syrup,  339 

Leather,  for  presenr- 

ing,  530 

„            Another,  530 

„            Another,  580 

Leaven,  450 

Leeks,  566 

Leichee,  cultivation,  598 

Light  Paste,  264 

Liaison,  120 

Lime,  Sweet,  cultivation,  598 

„    Pickle,  Native,  249 

„       „    Another,  249 

„     Water,  543 

„     Whey,  822 

Lip  Salve,  539 

Liquids  for  forcemeat,  85 

Liquid  Pounce,  529 

Liver,  236 

„     and  Parsley,  122 

„     Sauce  for  Fish,  125 

Loam,  549 

Lobster,  to  boil,  95 

„     or  Crab  potted,  239 

„    or  Crayfish  Salad,  97 

„     Sauce,  117 

»     Soup,  73 

Lotions,  48 

Love  Apple,  or  Tomata,  566 

„      „     Cakes,  for  Stew,  222 

„      „     Catsup,  222 

„      „    Sauce,  117 

„      ,»      „  to  keep,  117 

Loquat,  599 


Pago 

Loin  of  veal  a  la  puree  de 

celeri,  149 

„    aux  petits  pois,  149 


Macaroons  or  Eatafias,  299 
Macaroni  Paste,  267 
„     Pudding,  282 
„     Soup,  78 
n     and  Cheese  plain,  246 
„     Another,  246 
Madeira  Custard,  312 
Mange,  42 
Mangoes,  Dried,  251 
„            „     Another,  251 
„             „.  Chutney,  259 
„     Green  Sweet  Chut- 
ney, 259 
„     Another,  260 
„     Cultivation,  599 
Mango-fool,  313 
„     Tart,  269 
„    Pickle,  250 
„        „     Another,  251 
n        ,.         >,    in  Oil,  250 
„     to  Preserve,  332 
Madras  Price  Current,  497 
Fish,  497 
Beef,  497 
Yeal  small.  497 
Large,  498 
Mutton,  498 
„     for  Natives,  499 
Kind,  small,  499 
„     large,  ,  499 
Pork  fresh  and  salt,  499 
Poultry,  500 
Fruits  of  sorts,  500 
.,        dry,  501 
Bread,  Flour,  Rolong,  501 
Milk  and  Butter,  501 
Oil,  Candles  and  So^,  501 
Sugar  of  sorts,  501 
Ghee  of     „  501 
Madras  Money  Weights 

and  Measures,  502 

Tables  of  Exchange,  503 

Mysore,  508 

Hyderabad,  504 


Digitized  by 


Google 


63*2 


iHOfiX. 


Page 

3? 

Poudicberry, 

B64 

Mince  Collops  for  Pies, 

275 

Commercial  Weights, 

504 

Veal 

153 

Aroot,              ,» 

505 

„       Meat  Pudding, 

282 

Bangalore,        „ 

505 

Milk,  observations  od> 

49 

Bellary,            „ 

505 

„    Arrowroot, 

318 

Aiirungabad,    „ 

508 

„    Biscuits, 

307 

Hyderabad  j      „ 

509 

„    Coffee, 

337 

Jaulnab,           t, 

509 

„    Tapioca  m, 

327 

Luoknow,         n 

509 

„     Lemonade, 

343 

Madras,           » 

505 

„     Punch, 

343 

Masulipatam,  „ 

505 

„         „     Another, 

344 

Mysore,            „ 

505 

„         „     Another, 

344 

Pondicherry,     „ 

505 

„    of  Boses, 

588 

Travancore,      )i 

605 

Mint, 

567 

Trichinopoly,   m 

505 

„      Sauce, 

121 

Management  of  Poultry, 

19 

„      Julep, 

350 

Marking  Ink, 

529 

Miscellaneous  Receipts, 

521 

„     Native, 

529 

Mixture  with  Opium, 

546 

Marmalade,    Apricot, 

328 

„       without,     „ 

546 

Quince, 

329 

Morel, 

223 

„  of  Orange  or  LemoE 

I 

„       Sauce, 

122 

chips, 

331 

Moringa  Tree, 

602 

Marinade  for  Wild  Fowl, 

210 

Mock  Goose, 

194 

Maijoram, 

567 

„      Brawn, 

170 

Mangoteens,  cultivation, 

601 

„      Turtle  Pie, 

268 

Maraschino  Jelly, 

325 

,.     Soup, 

67 

Maraschino,  Ice  Cream, 

365 

„        „        „     Another, 

68 

Marrow  Bones,  Beef, 

146 

„      Oyster,  SAuce 

122 

„        Toast, 

238 

Moong  Arood,  Green 

„        Pudding, 

281 

Gram, 

584 

Mashes, 

41 

„      P'hulee,  Earth  Nut, 

5^4 

Mashed  Carrots, 

280 

Mug, 

846 

Matkee  Bhajee,  Greens,    • 

584 

Mukhum  Seem,  Sabre 

Meagre,  Soup, 

76 

bean. 

684 

,,            „     Another,    - 

76 

Mulberry,  cultivation, 

602 

„     Onion, 

76 

„  *     White, 

602 

Meat  Cold,  Sauce  for, 

121 

Murchaee,  Capsicum, 

584 

„     Puffs, 

288 

Mutke  ke  pullie,  small 

„     or  Savoury  Pies,  Paste 

Bean, 

584 

for, 

266 

Mushrooms, 

„       for  Sandwiches, 

241 

„        Catsup, 

129 

Meet'hee,  Fenugrik, 

584 

„            „     Another, 

130 

„          Kudoo,  Sweet, 

„         to  choose, 

'224 

Pumpkin, 

584 

Devilled, 

288 

Melon,  cultivation, 

567 

,,         Essence  of, 

243 

Melted  Butter, 

131 

Graicd, 

'224 

Mince  Fowl, 

184 

„        Ometetlc, 

•224 

„       Meat, 

274 

Pickle, 

251 

„       Collops  of  Beef, 

144 

n         Sauce, 

122 

Digitized  by 


Google 


INDKT. 


633 


Page 

Mushrooms,  Stew,  223 
„        While  or  biowo, 

Pur^e  ^  223 

Musqoito  Bites,  642i 
Muslin  Dresses,  Coloured,  to 

wash,  641 

Mustard,  130 

„     Embrocation,  47 
„     Seed  for  oil  and 

Flour,  130 

Mottigataiiniy  Soup,  74 

„            „     Another,  73 

„            „    Another,  75 

Murrell,  Baked,  9S 

Mutton,  Bemarks  on,  155 

„     Broth,  87 

1,         „    for  the  Sick,  86 

„     Chops,  Ifi^ 

„        „    Ajiotherway,  159 

„        „    tobroi],  169 

„     Fried  in  poiatoe 

Batter,  159 
„    Foreqnarter  or  Shoul- 
der of,  156 
Gigot  k  Tail,  168 
Haunch  oi;  156 
Haggis,  161 
Ham,  161 
Haricot,.  167 
Hashed,  158 
„        aphdner 

way,  168 
Kidneys  with  Cham- 

pi^ne,  160 

n    hroasd,.  160 
19        „  French 

way,  160 
^r  157 
a  Leg  to  bone  and 
for»d,  178 
Maintenon  Gat- 
lets,  169 
Saddle  of,  156 
Sheep's  Brain  firi- 
ed  161 
„    Trotters^  161 
Shoulder,  Yeal,  or 

Lamb  to  bone,  179 

a  b  potonabe,  168  { 


Page 

ISI 

Native  Cakes,  449 

Batter  for  frying  Fish,  90 

Ba  ka  Khana,  450 

„    Another,  451 

Chuppatees,  452 

Kummach  a  Kassab,  449 

Kummier,  Native  Yeast,  450 
Madras  Hoppers,    or 

Opas,  452 

Naun  a  bah  Kummach,  449 

„    Sheer  Mkal,  449 

»,               „      Another,  450 

Paupudfl,  451 

Native  Marking  Ink,  529 

Nasturtium,  568 

„         Seeds  to  pickle,  252 

Negus,  843 

„    Another,                  '  343 

Newcastle  Pudding,  283 

Newmarket,     „  282 

Net  Cotton  Stockings,  &e., 

to  wash,  641 

Nole-Cole,  668 

Norfolk  Dumpling,  288 

Noyeau,  8^1 

„         Ice  Cream,  366 

Pink,  352 

White.  852 

Nurcha,  Sag  Greens,  586 

Nutmeg,  60$ 

Nuts,  Ging^er  Bread,  306 

„        Plain,  306 

„        „         Another,  306 

»        »        Another,  307 


Observations  on  the  Mar- 
ket, 486 
Olive,  Indian,  604 
Olives  of  Beef,  144 
„  Sandwiches,  241 
Omelette  Aux  Eagnons,  244 
„  Mushroom,  224 
„  Plain,  243 
„       Petites  an  Jam* 

bon,  244 
h3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


6S4 


INDEX. 


Omelette  Souffle  244 

Sweet,  244 
Ointment  for  burns  and 

scalds,  543 
Onions,  224 
„        cultivation,  569 
to  Boil,  224 
„        Gravy  Brown 
„            Sauce,  114 
Pickle,  262 
Sauce,             123,  124 
„       White,  123 
„        Soup  Meagre,  76 
Opium,  mixture  with,  540 
„          „        without,  546 
Orache,  569 
Orange,  cultivation,  602 
„     Chips,  832 
„     Peet  Candied,  332 
„     Custard,  313 
„     Ice  Cream,  363 
„     and  Lemon  Puffs,  271 
„    or        „        Jelly,  325 
„     Chips,  Lemon  or  pulp- 
ed Marmalade,  331 
„    Tart,  270 
„     Water  Ice,  366 
Orgeat,  342 
„    Another,  342 
„     Another,  842 
Ortalans,  205 
Oysters,  Pried,  105 
„       Patties,  101 
to  Pickle,  105 
„        Powder,  105 
„            „    Another,  105 
„       Sauce,  123 
„       Scollops,  101 
„            „    Another,  102 
>,      Soup,  77 
„          „    Imitations,  66 
„                to  Stew,  brown 

Sauce,  123 
„  White,  123 

„    Cutlets,  102 

,1     Fried,  105 

Ox  TaQ  Soup,  77 

„     Cheek  stewed,  145 

„    Feet  to  dress,  145 


P 

Paint,  drying  oil  for,  530 

Paluk  Sag,  Bengal  Beet,  585 

Pan,  Betel  Pepper,  585 

Panada,  289 

Pans,  49 

Pancakes,  plain,  289 

„            „    Another,  289 

„            French,  290 

Paneola  Plum,  cultivation,  604 

Papaw  Tree,  cultivation,  604 

Parliament  Gingerbread,  305 

Parsley,  cultivation,  569 

„      fried,  225 

„      to  preserve,  225 

„      Sauce,  124 

Parsnip,  to  dresa,  225 

„      to  cultivate,  569 

Partridge,  to  boil  and  stew,  205 

„      Ala  Crapandine,  206 

„      to  roast,  205 

„      remarks,  on,  206 

Paste,  common,  264 

„      Almond,  309 

„      Brioche,  293 

„          „      Indian,  295 

„      for  Cheese  Cake,  267 

„      Confectioner's,  266 

„       Crisp,  267 

„      light,  264 

],      Macaroni,  267 

„      for  Patties,  267 

„      for  a  huge  Pie,  265 

„      for  Meat  or  Savouiy 

Pies,  266 

„      for  standing  Pie,  266 
,,      for  boiled  Puddings,  266 

„      Puff,  265 
„      excellent  Short 

Crust,  267 

„       Short  crust,  264 

„      for  Tarts,  265 

„      fine  Tart,  264 

„      for  Tartlets,  265 
„      for  stringing  over 

Tartlets,  265 

Pastry,  observations  on,  262 

Patna,  Bice  Podding,  284 


Digitized  by 


Google 


INDEX. 


638 


Pa^ 

r»(fe 

Fatties,  a  good  paste  for. 

267 

Pickles,  Bamboo, 

247 

„        Oyster,. 

101 

„     for  small  Fish, 

89 

Peach,  caltivation. 

605 

„     for  Beef,  Ham,  or 

Cheese, 

828 

Tongue, 

146 

,,        Liqaor, 

348 

„       in  Brine, 

146 

„        Jam   with  Oreen 

„      or  Brine,  to  make, 

147 

Mangoes, 

327 

„      Beet, 

247 

Pea  Fowl, 

28 

„      Cabbage, 

247 

„      „     Mullig:atawney, 

76 

„       Cauliflower, 

24S 

„      „     to  roast. 

206 

„      Gherkins, 

248 

Peas, 

215 

„       Cocoanut, 

248 

„    PuddiDg, 

283 

,,       Green  Ginger, 

248 

„    Green,  to  boil, 

229 

„      Lemon, 

248 

„        „    French  fashion, 

220 

„       Lime,  Native, 

249 

„        „        „    Another, 

230 

„              „      Another, 

249 

„        n         >i     Another, 

230 

„      Mango, 

250 

„    With  buttered  Eggs, 

230 

„    Another, 

250 

„    to  preserve, 

231 

„    in  Oil, 

250 

„    Another  way, 

231 

»»          II        II        Ano- 

„     Soup, 

78 

ther, 
„      Mushrooms,           * 

251 

„        „    Another, 

78 

251 

Pear,  cultivation, 

606 

„      Nasturtium  seeds. 

252 

Peat, 

649 

„       Onions, 

252 

Peeaz  Onion, 

585 

„       Oyster, 

105 

„     Shallot, 

585 

Pickling  Salt, 

146 

Pendaloo,  Small  Yam, 

585 

Pies,  Beefsteak, 

137 

Pepper,  Black, 

253 

„    Chicken, 

191 

,1        White, 

254 

,.    Eel, 

93 

Peppermint  Drops, 

340 

„    Giblet, 

195 

Pepperwater,  Sour, 

427 

„     Lamb  or  Kid, 

166 

„           Another, 

427 

„    Mock  Turtle, 

268 

„          Another, 

428 

„    Pigeon, 

199 

„          Another, 

428 

„     Pork, 

268 

Persian  Almonds, 

587 

,1 ,  Quail, 

208 

11    Apple, 

588 

„     Saltfish, 

96 

Petittocs, 

174 

„     Squab, 

160 

Petites  Bouchees, 

104 

„    Yorkshire  Goose, 

195 

de  Gibier, 

104 

„    large  paste  for. 

265 

„        „        a  la  puree  de 

„     standing,  paste  for, 

266 

Gibier, 

105 

„     Meat  or  Savouty,  paste 

, 

Petits  pates, 
„    Vol  au  Vents  aux 

108 

for. 

266 

„    Mince  Meat  for. 

275 

Huities, 

102 

Pigeons, 

26 

Pheasants,        * 

206 

„     boiled. 

198 

„     fillets, 

207 

„     Cutlets  a  la  Mare. 

„    to  roast. 

206 

chale, 

198 

Phoot,  Field  Cucumber, 

585 

„     to  roast, 

198 

Physicking,  Horses, 

39 

1,     Pie, 

199 

Pickles  and  Cbutneys, 

247 

„     Stewed, 

199 

Digitized  by 


Google 


636 


INDEX. 


Page 

P-ur 

Pigs,  remarks  on, 

16 

Potatoes,  New, 

S2S 

Pigs,  Suckmgi  to  bake, 

169 

„          „    to  boil, 

226 

Pills, 

646 

„      baUs, 

227 

Pine  Apple,  Cardinal, 

848 

„        „     Another, 

227 

„     Ice  Cream, 

863 

„      to  fry. 

226 

„       „  Another, 

864 

„      Mashed, 

227 

„     Water  Ice, 

866 

„      it  kMaitied' Ho- 

PipiUi, Long  Pepper, 

685 

tel, 

228 

Pistachio  Ice  Cream, 

865 

„      Pnr^  de  pomme 

„        cultivation, 

608 

de  terre, 

22S 

Plantain  Banana,  cultiva- 

„     Scollops, 

227 

tion, 

608 

„      Snow, 

227 

„     Green  Chutney, 

257 

Potted  Beef, 

142 

„     Pudding, 

286 

„    Prawns, 

99 

Plate,  to  dean, 

527 

„    Shrimp, 

100 

Plovers, 

207 

„    Meat, 

240 

Plum,  cultivation. 

608 

„    Cow  heels, 

145 

„     Buns, 

302 

„    Ham  or  Tongue, 

172 

„     Cake, 

297 

Pot  Liquor, 

se 

„   ^French  Preserve, 

831 

n     top, 

86 

„  *  Pudding, 

283 

Poultice, 

42 

n        light, 

284 

Poultry, 

19 

Poe,  Malabar  Nightshade, 

686 

Pounce,  Liquid, 

529 

Pointes  d'  Aspcrges  en  pe- 

„      and  the  ink,  method 

tits  pois. 

215 

©fusing, 

629 

Polish,  Jet,  for  Boots, 

Pound  Cake, 

298 

Shoes,  or  Harness, 

525 

„         „    plain, 

297 

„     French, 

625 

19 

for  Pumitnre, 

626 

„      and  Game,  general 

„     German, 

626 

direction^ 

176 

Pomegranate,  cultivation, 

609 

Prawns,  to  dress, 

99 

Poodeneh,  Mint, 

685 

„      Potted, 

99 

Pork, 

167 

„      Soup, 

79 

„     to  boil,  a  Leg  of 

Preserves,  French  Plum, 

831 

Pickled, 

167 

„         Green  Ginger, 

331 

„    Brawn,  to  collar. 

169 

„        Mango, 

332 

„     Chops, 

168 

„        Tamarind, 

330 

„     Loin  a  la  Bourging- 

Preserved  Butter, 

52 

note. 

168 

„            „     Another, 

52 

„    Mock  brawn. 

170 

n        Fish, 

89 

„    to  Pickle, 

168 

Prune  Tart, 

270 

,>     Pie, 

268 

Prussian  Soup, 

62 

„     Boast, 

169 

Pudding,  Almond  rice  cop, 

276 

„     Sucking,  to  scald, 

169 

„        Apple, 

276 

„        „        to  roast, 

169 

„        Apricot, 

277 

Postage,  rates  of. 

518 

„        Arrowroot, 

277 

Potatoes,  cultivation. 

570 

„         Beef, 

'  137 

to  boil. 

225 

Biscuit, 

278 

„    Another, 

225 

Bread, 

879 

Digitized  by 


Google 


INDEX. 


637 


V 


Padding,  Brown,  278 
,,     Bread  and  Butter,  279 
„     Bombay,  278 
„    Batter,  277 
„        „    Another,  278 
„     Carrot,  279 
„        „    Another,  279 
,,     Cbcoanut,  280 
„     Custard,  280 
,,     Franchipan,  281 
„    Hasty  baked,  280 
,,    LemoB  or  Orange,  281 
„        „    Suet,  281 
Macaroni,  282' 
Marrow,  281 
Mince  Mest,  282 
„    Newcastle,  288 
„    Newmarket,  282 
„    Panada,  289 
Peat,  2S3 
286 
288 
Light'Plum,  284 
„     Patna  Rice,  284 
,,     Rice  with  dry  Cur- 
rants, 284 
„      „  for  children,  284 
„      „    „  Another,  284 
„    baked,  285 
boiled,  285 
ground,  285 
Rhubarb,  285 
„    Sago,  286 
„    Tapioca,  286 
„    Transparent,  287 
5,    Yorkshire,  287 
„    Boiled  paste  for,  266 
,T     Sauce,  124 
„        „    Another,  125 
„        „     Another,  225 
Pufc,  271 
„      Quails,  &c.  208 
„      Almond,  271 
„      Curd,  271 
„      Meat,  288 
9,      Orange  and  Lemon,  271 
„      Paste,  265 
,.      Spiced,  271 
PuUows,  remarks  on,  429 


„     Plantain, 
„    Plum, 


Page 

Pullows,  Moorgabee  or  Fowl,  430 

Kookra,  431 

Chewlahwoo,  432 

Ukrudge,  432 

"  Dumnowurdee,  433 

Ukhnee  or  Kid,  434 

Plain  Kid,  435 

Kiteberie,  436 

Kuddoo,  436 

My  he  Lowabdar,  437 

Mulgobah,  438 

Sherazee,  439 

Lookmah,  440 

Koondun,  441 

Gheelanee,  442 

Hur  Hur,  442 
Koolah  Santhoon  Nega- 

muth,  443 

Ununass,  444 

Kala,       ^  444 

Shokh,  445 

Khaishghee,  446 

Saur,  446 

Barbawn,  447 

Imlee,  447 

Nuckodee,  Kooflha,  443 
Pulwul  Dioceous,  snake 

gourd,  586 

Pulpul  Allspice,  586 

Pummelo,  cultivation,  609 

Pumpkin,        „  573 

Pumplemose  peel,  candied,  332 

„        Liquor,  848 

Punch,  Champagne,  847 

Ice,  365 

„            „    Another,  865 

,,            „    Another,  365 

,>         Milk,  843 

„          „    Another,  844 

„        Regent's,  847 

Purgative  balls,  46 

Purslane,  cultivation,  573 

Pyramid  Cream,  813 

Pur^e  of  Green  Peas,  228 

„    of  Carrots,  82 

„    d'Asperges,  214 

„     Mushrooms,  223 

„     de  Pomme  de  Terre,  228 

„    of  Turnips,  233 


Digitized  by 


Google 


63S 


INDEX. 


Quails,  to  roast, 

„     Pie, 

„     Puffs,  &c. 

„    Stuffing  for, 

„    to  Stew, 
Queen  Cakes, 

n      Soup, 
Quince,  cultivatioi^, 

„     Marmalade, 
Quin's  Fish  Saacej 


KabbiU, 
„    to  boil, 
„    to  roast, 
„    to    „    as  Hare, 
„     Rissoles  of, 
'»     Sauce,  ^ 

„     to  smother.  Onion  or 
other  Vegetables, 
„    TimbaUe,  of  Poultry, 
or  Game, 
Badishes, 

„     cultivation, 
„     Turnips  to  boil, 
Bagout  of  Poultry,  Game,8cc. 

„    Sauce, 
Rai, 

Ramakin, 
„    Indian, 

„    Another, 
„     A  la  Sefton, 
Raspberry  Cream, 
„        cultivation, 
„        Ice  Cream, 
Jam, 
Jelly, 
Ratafia  Cake, 
„        „    Another, 
„    Ice  Cream, 
Rats,  to  destroy, 
Renaet,  Calf  s,  Pig  or  Kid, 
„        Italian, 
Vegetable, 
Rhubarb  Pudding, 
Soup, 
Tart, 


Pagei 

Vb^ 

Ribs  of  Beef, 

135 

Rice,  Blancmange, 

311 

207 

„    to  boil. 

426 

208 

„     Cakes, 

300 

208 

„     Puddinjr,  Patna, 

284 

208 

„         „     for  Children, 

284 

205 

„         ,1             If  Another, 

284 

296 

„    withdryCur- 

73 

rants. 

284 

609 

„    Flummery, 

821 

829 

„     Pudding,  baked, 

285 

116 

„             „     boiled, 

285 

„    ground. 

285 

„     Sauce, 

126 

18 

„     Soup, 

78 

200 

Rissoles  aux  huSiress, 

103 

199 

„     deVolaille, 

190 

200 

Roasting, 

109 

200 

Robert  Sauce, 

126 

126 

Rose  Apple,  cultifation, 

610 

Rosemarv, 

Roselle  Jam  and  Jelly, 

673 

201 

333 

Round  of  Beef, 

136 

201 

Roux,  "White, 

120 

230 

„    Brown, 

120 

573 

Rum  fustian. 

350 

231 

211 

S 

126 

Sack  Posset, 

346 

586 

Saddle  GaUs, 

42 

245 

Sage, 

673 

245 

Sago  Pudding, 

286 

246 

Salad, 

239 

246 

„    Another, 

239 

316 

„     to  dress, 

231 

610 

„     Lobster, 

97 

363 

„     Sauce, 

126 

829 

„    German  sauce, 

127 

325 

Salep, 

610 

299 

Sally  Luns, 

301 

800 

Salmi  of  Game,  Meat,  &c. 

211 

364 

Salmon, 

98 

584 

„    Boiled, 

98 

55 

„    Presh  Broiled, 

99 

56 

Salt  for  pickling. 

146 

56 

Saltfish  pie. 

Salting  Meat  with  Carson's, 

96 

285 

78 

Machine, 

146 

270 

„     Brine  or  Pickle,  for, 

147 

Digitized  by 


Google 


INDEX. 


639 


Page 


Sandwiches,  lemarks  on, 

240 

„    Anchovy, 

241 

yy    CommoD, 

241 

„    Meat  for, 

241 

„    OHve, 

241 

„    Shrimps, 

241 

Sanjsarie, 

360 

Sapota,  cultivation. 

611 

Sardines, 

99 

Salbea  (Sage,) 

686 

Sauces, 

113 

„    Anchovy, 

118 

„        „    Another, 

113 

„    Apple, 

113 

„        „    for  Geese  and 

Boast  Fork, 

116 

„    Bechamel  or  White, 

113 

,.        Another, 

114 

„    Brains  two  ways. 

116 

„    Bread, 

114 

„        ,,       Another, 

116 

„    Brown, 

119 

„        „    or  savorv  flrravy 

,  119 

„        „     Onion  Gravy, 

114 

„        „    to  stew  Oys- 

ters, 

123 

Z    Cetoy, 

116 
120 

„    Cherva, 

120 

„    Cold  meat. 

121 

„    Devilled  for  Grills, 

236 

»f    Eggs, 

121 

„    For  Game,  Ducks,  &c.  128 

„    Garlic 

121 

„     German  Salad, 

127 

„    Genoese, 

118 

„        „        for  stewed 

fish, 

118 

„    for  Goose, 

124 

„    Green  petits  pois  a 

„    forGnC 

121 
128 

„    UorseEadish,        114,116 

„    Italian  Brown, 

119 

„        „    White, 

119 

„    KeU/s, 

126 

„    Lemon  and  Liver, 

126 

120 

«       „    White, 

123 

Page 

Sauces,  Liver  for  fish,  125 

„        „    Farsley,  122 

„    Lobster,  117 

»,    for,  116 

„    Love  Apple,  117 

„    Mint,  121 

„    Morel,  122 

„    Mock  Oyster,  122 

„    Mushroom,  122 
„    Onion,                    123,124 

„        „     Wlute,  123 

„    Oyster,  123 

„    Farsley,  124 
„    Fiquante  for  fried 

fish,  116 

„    Fudding,  124 

„        „    Another,  125 

„        „     Another,  125 

„    to  keep,  117 

„    White  Boux,  120 

„    Brown  Roux,  120 

„     Quin's  fish,  116 

„    Babbit,  126 
„     Bagout,                     (   126 

„    Bice,  126 

„     Bobert,  126 

„     Sahid,  126 
„    Scotch,  for  raw  Sa- 

Lid,  126 

„     Sharp,  127 

„    Sorrel,  127 

„    Spinach,  127 

„    Tapp's,  128 

„    Turtle,  127 

„    for  Venison  or  Hare,     127 

„    or  Soup  Browning  for,  115 

„     White  for  Haricot,  157 

„    for  Lobster,  116 

„    for  Wild  Ducks,  124 

„    Dolichos  Soya,  128 

Sausages,  Beef,  144 

„        „    and  Oysters,    144 

,«    Bcdogna,  174 

„        ,,    Another,  175 

„        „    Another,  175 

Savoy  Biscuits,  308 

Savory  Fowder,  84 

Sayme,  ke  Fnllie,  586 

;>         J*       M     1*^1  586 


Digitized  by 


Google 


640 


INDKX. 


P»ge 

R8e 

Scalded  Cream, 

60 

Smells,  bad,  to.destcoy. 

64S 

Scolloped  Oysters* 

101 

Snake  bite,  cure  for. 

641 

Scorpion  sting,  or  bite  of 

Snipe. 

207 

a  Centipede, 

642 

» 

a  la  minute. 

207 

Soorzenora,  caIti?atioii, 

574 

Snow  Eggs  for  trifles. 

317 

Soorzonera  in  FarmesaUy 

232 

Solid  Cream, 

315 

Scotch  ScoUops, 

143 

Soot'hnee, 

6S6 

„    Short  bread. 

268 

Sorvel  Sauce, 

127 

„     Sauce  for  Salad, 

126 

Souchy  Water, 

91 

Scouring  drops, 

627 

Soul,  sweet  fennel. 

56S 

Seed  Cake, 

300 

Souffles, 

320 

Servants,  remarks  on. 

1 

9, 

&  la  vanille. 

320 

„    Ayahs  habits  and 

»9 

aux  macaroni. 

821 

caste. 

6 

>r 

of  sweet  potatoes^ 

821 

>i        It  Wages  Madras, 

4 

Soups ;  general  directions. 

68 

„        „      „  Bengal, 

8 

» 

particular  dinctions. 
White,  direetionsi,  for 

60 

„        „      ^  Bombay, 
»i      ,»  Hyderabad, 

8 

9f 

4 

flavouring. 

60 

„    Bemarks  generally 

W 

Brown,        ^        „ 

60 

on. 

5 

M 

a  la  Julienne, 

61 

Sharp  Sauces, 

127 

$9 

Almond^ 

62 

Shallot, 

574 

» 

Artichoke, 

64 

Sheep. 

15 

»» 

,.    Another, 

64 

„    Brain,  fried, 

161 

,» 

Asparagus, 

64 

,.    Feet  Jelly, 

324 

» 

Beef, 

80 

,.     Head  Broth, 

87 

» 

„     Bouilli, 

65 

„        „     Soup, 

79 

» 

Beet  root, 

74 

„    Trotters,  stewed, 

161 

9* 

Carrot, 

68 

Short  crust,  excellent. 

267 

w 

Cucumbers  and  peas. 

69 

„    Another. 

264 

ff 

Eel, 

69 

.»    Bread  (Scotch,) 

268 

n 

^„    plain. 

69 

,,    Cakes, 

300 

9* 

Fish, 

69 

Shrimps,  to  boil. 

100 

99 

„    Another^ 

70 

„    to  Pot, 

100 

>»• 

Giblet, 

62 

„    Sandwidies, 

241 

99 

Gravy  dear,. 

71 

,•    Soupt 

79 

9* 

Green  Peas, 

71 

Shrub,  Lime  or  Orange^ 

847 

n 

Hare, 

72 

„    Brandy, 

847 

99 

„     Another, 

72 

Shulgnm. 

6S6 

>» 

Imitation  Oyster, 

66 

» 

Lobster, 

73 

grease  from, 

629 

>>■ 

Macaroni  or  Yemioel- 

„    Stoeidoga  to  dye, 

639 

>» 

li. 

73 

,♦        „        to  wash. 

539 

99 

Meagre, 

76 

„    to  Damaak,  to  wash> 

640 

99 

„    Another. 

76 

Sipipets, 

193 

» 

„     Onion, 

76 

Sirloin  of  Beef, 

138 

»> 

Mock  Turtle, 

67 

„    cold,  inside  to  dress, 

143 

»» 

„     '  Another, 

€S 

Skins  to  preserve  with  the 

»» 

Mulligatawney, 

74 

hair  on, 

521 

»> 

„        Another, 

75 

Digitized  by 


Google 


INDEX. 


641 


Page 

Soups,  Mulligatawnev  Another,   7  5 

„     Ox-tail,         "  77 

„     Oyster,  97 

„     Peas,  78 

,,           „    Another,  78 

„     Prawn  or  Shrimps,  79 

,»     Prussian,  62 

„     Queen,  78 

„     Bhubarb,  78 

»,     Kice,  79 

„     Sheep's  Head,  79 

„     Turnip,  79 

„     White,  63 

„     Boots  and  seasoning,  61 

Soar  Sop,  cultivation,  611 

Spiced  Puffs,  271 

Spinach,  cultiyationy  569 

Spinach,  colouring,  238 

„     to  dress,  232 

„     Sauce,  127 

„    with  Sugar,  282 

Splints  in  Horses,  46 

Split  Peas  Soup,  78 

Spruce  Beer,  S44 

Sponge  Biscuits,  298 

„     Cake,  298 

Squab  pies,  160 

Star  Apple,  610 

Stains,  wax,  to  remove  from 

doth,  628 

Steaks  of  Beef,  186 

„    Grilled,  136 

„    Italian,  189 

Steel,  to  take  rust  out  of,  526 

Stewed  Ox  Cheeks,  145 

Strawberry,  cultivation,  611 

„          Ice  Cream,  862 

Strong  Ghravy  or  brown 

Sauce,  119 
Stuffing  for  boiled  Turkey,  88 
„    for  Goose  or  Duck,  83 
„    for  Hare,  82 
„    for  Veal,  Boast  Tur- 
key, Fowl,  &c.  83 
„    another  for  Veal,  88 
Substitute  for  Yeast,  804 
Suet,  to  Chuify,  263 
„    Dumpling,  288 
Sttfed  Tulsee,  587 


Page 

Sufura  Koomra, 

587 

Sugar,  to  clarify. 

367 

Sukur  Kund, 

686 

Sweet  Biscuits, 

807 

„    Herbs,  to  dry, 

85 

Syllabubs, 

318 

„    Everlasting, 

fivmn 

318 
338 

oyrup, 
„    Capillaire, 

338 

„     Clarified, 

338 

„     Lemon, 

339 

„     Orange  or  Lemon 

Peel, 

839 

Table  of  Daily  Pay  or  allow- 
ance, 515 
„    Exchange,                     514 
„    Expense,  Income  or 

Wages,  517 

„     Exchange  Co.'s  Bn- 
pees  into  £  Sterling; 
froml«.    Sd.    to  2«. 
per  Bupee,  510 

„    Exchange  from  2«.  id. 
to  2«.  4<f.  per   Bu- 
^ee,  .    511 

„    Eichange  £   Sterl- 
ing into  Company's 
Bupees,  512 

„     of  Exchange  from  1«* 
9d.    to  2«.  id.    per 
Bupee,  512 

,,     Exchange  from  2$,  Id. 
to  28.  ^d.  pef  Bu- 
pee, 513 
Taffey,                                     840 
Tamarind,  cultivation,             613 
Fish,                      423 
Another,       428 
„         „         Another,       429. 
y,        and  Green  Gin- 
ger Chutney,       253 
Jam,  Bed,              330 
„         Green,  Chutney,     261 
to  Salt,                   261 
Chutney,                261 
„         to  preserve,             830 
,,         Preserve,  330 
I  3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


649 


INDXX. 


Page 

Tamarind,  Bed,  Chutney,  258 

„        „     Another,  258 

Tankard,  cool,  846 

Tapioca  in  Milk,  327 

„     JeUy.  327 

„    Padding,  286 

Tapp's  Sauce,  128 

Tarragon  Vinegar,  255 

Tart,  Apple,  269 

„     Creamed,  270 

„     Icing  for,  273 

„    Mango,  269 

„    Orange,  270 

„    Paste,  265 

„        „      Fine,  264 

„    Prune,  270 

„    Ehubarb,  270 

Tartlet,   paste  for  stringing 

over  Paste,  265 

Tea,  834 

„    Cakes,  300 

„      Another,  298 

„    loe  Cream>  864 

Teal,  208 

Texture  of  Soils,  550 

Thrush,  45 

l\urbooz,  Water  Melon,  587 

Thyme,  574 

Ticks  on  Dogs,  to  destroy,       535 

Poultry,  635 

TiUseed  Chutney,  259 

Toddy  Vinegar,  256 

Tomata  or  l^ye  Apple 

Chutney,  258 
„        with  Tamarind  do.      259 

Tongue  to  Pickle,  146 

„    Potted,  172 

Tooth  Powder,  539 

Transparent  Pudding,  287 
Transplanting  Trees  or 

Shrubs,  553 

Treacle,  340 

Trees,  pruning,  556 

Trifle,  316 

„     Snow  Eggs  for,  317 

Turkeys,  to  rear,  23 

„     to  fatten,  22 

„    with  Celery  Sauce,  180 

„    by  steam,  181 


Turkeys  Boast,  181 
„         „     and  Braised,         182 

Turtle,  to  dress,  106 

„     Sauce,  127 

Turnips,  to  rear,  574 

„     Mashed,  233 

„     Pur&  of,  233 

„     Soup,  79 

Twelfth  Cake,  301 

Tyre,  57 


Vanilla  Cream,  316 

„        Joe  Cream,  363 

„          ,,    Another,  363 

„        Water  Ice,  866 

Varnishing  Pencil  Draw- 
ings, 530 

Veal  Broth,  85 

„     to  choose,  148 

„     CoUops,  152 

„     Cutlets,  153 

„        „     Scotch,  158 

„    Fowl  or  Meat,  154 

„     Croquettes  or  Fowl,  154 

„     Sweetbread,  154 

„     Fillet  Boasted,  148 

„     Stuffing,  88 

„     or  Fowl,  to  blanch,  149 
„    Fried  Liver  and  Ba» 

con,  158 

„     Kidneys,  153 

„     Knuckle  of,  149 

„    Minced,  153 

„     Neck,  149 

„     the  Loin,  148 

„       „     atix  pctits  pois,  349 
„      „    alaPurdede 

„        Celeri,  149 

„     Olives,  152 

„     Shoulder,  148 

„     Sweetbread,  154 

Vegetables,  &c.     Europe,  Di- 
rections for  cultivation,  556 

Vegetables,  time  taking  to 

dress,  212 

Vegetables,  Destroying 

Insects  on,  555 

Artichoke,  556 


Digitized  by 


Google 


tNI>£S. 


643 


Page 

Asparagus, 

558 

Basil,  Sweet  Borage, 

559 

Beans,  Broad  and  Wind- 

sor, 

559 

„     Frend^,  White, 

559 

„    Black  and  Yellow, 

559 

„    Portuguese, 

560 

Beet  Boot,  Bed  and 

White, 

560 

Boorcole, 

560 

Brocoli, 

560 

Cabbage, 

560 

Capsicum, 

562 

Carrots, 

562 

Cardoon, 

562 

Cauliflower, 

562 

Celery, 

568 

Celeriac, 

564 

Chives, 

564 

Cress, 

564 

Cucumbers,  Green  and 

White, 

564 

Egg  Plant, 

564 

Endive, 

664 

Fennel, 

565 

Garlic, 

565 

Horse  Badish, 

565 

Jerusalem  Artichoke, 

565 

Leeks, 

566 

Lemon  Grass, 

566 

Lettuce, 

566 

Love  Apple  or  Tomata, 

566 

Maijoram, 

567 

Melon, 

567 

Mint, 

567 

Morel, 

568 

Mushroom, 

568 

Mustard, 

568 

Nasturtium, 

568 

Nole-Cole, 

568 

Onions, 

569 

Orache,  or  Mountain 

Spinach, 

569 

Parsley, 

569 

Parsnips, 

569 

Peas, 

570 

Potatoes, 

570 

Pumpkin, 
Purslane, 

573 

573 

Badish, 

Bosemarv, 

Sage, 

Scorzenora, 

Shallot, 

Spinach, 

Thyme, 

Turnips, 

Vegetable  Marrow, 

Water  Cress, 

Greens,  Roots,  Legumes, 

&c.  Native, 
Adurk,  Ginger, 
Ajmood,  Parsley, 
Ajowan,  Lovage, 
Aloo,  potatoe, 
Anasphul,  Star  Anise, 
Aubaree,  Hemp-leaved 

Hibiscus, 
BauJenB, 

BaklaZun,  Dwarf  Kid. 

ney  Bean, 
Bakla,  Garden  Bean, 
Bhang-u-Gunduna,  In- 
dian Chive, 
Bheendee^  Bandaky, 
Boodunk,  Penny  Boyal, 
Boorunk  Kala,  Sweet 

BasO, 
Boota,  Maize, 
Brinjals,  Egg  Plant, 
Bukum,  Narrow-leaved 

Brasiletto, 
Bullur,  Small  Bean, 
Bunburbuttee,  Duffin 

Bean, 
Bnrric^Toovar,  Lai^e 

DhJl, 
Butanee,  Common  Pea, 
Cheena,  Chick  Pea  or 

Gram, 
Choolaee,  Common 

Bajee, 
Chuchoonda,  Snake 

Gourd, 
Chliota  Kulpa,  Indian 

Borage, 
Chotie  Sayme  ke  Pullic, 

Native  Bean, 


Page 
573 
573 
673 
574 
574 
574 
574 
574 
575 
575 

575 
575 
576 
576 
576 
576 

576 
576 

677 
577 

577 
577 
577 

577 
577 
578 

578 
578 

578 

578 
679 

579 

579 

679 
579 
579 


Digitized  by 


Google 


644 


INDEX. 


Ghoolaee,  Spinacb, 
Chookeh,  Sorrel, 
Chuckoonda,  Common 

Beet, 
Choopree  Aloo  Tarn, 
Darcheenee,  CinDamon, 
Dhan  or  Choiil,  Rice, 
Dhuneea,  Coriander 

Seed, 
I)ill  Pussaud,  Small, 

Pumpkin, 
Erve,  Urvie, 
G^jur,  Carrot, 
Gaoduna,  Leek* 
Guranyo  Alio,  Bed  Sweet 
Yam, 

„  »,  Lai,  Purple  Yam, 
Huldee,  Turmeric, 
Huleem,  Cress, 
Illachee,  Cardamon, 
Ipar,  Thyme, 
Jaworie, 
Kala  KuBtoorie,  Musk 

Ogro, 
Kalee  Seem,  Assam 
Been, 
„     Tulsee,  Basil, 
9,     Murchee,  Black 
Pepper, 
Kam  Aloo,  Winged  Yam, 
Kheera,  Cucumber, 
Khush  Khush,  Poppy 

Seed, 
Koolee  Begun,  Egg  plant, 
Kuddoo,  Bottle  Gourd, 
Kukree,  Green  Cucumber* 
Kulaee,  Three-lobed 

Bean, 
Kulmee  Sag,  Creeping 

Bind  Weed, 
Kult'hee,  Two-flowered 

Bean, 
Kurboozab,  Melon, 
Kureelah,  Bitter  Hairy 

Gourd, 
Xursumbul  ke  PuUie, 

Duffin  Bean, 
Lai  Sag,  Spinach, 
Loobea,  Asparagus  Bean, 


PB<fe 

Page 

579 

Lussen,  Garlic, 

584 

679 

Matkee  Bhajee,  Greens, 

584 

Meet'hee,  Fenugreek, 

584 

580 

„     Kudoo,  Sweet 

680 

Pumpkin, 

584 

580 

Moong  Arood,  Green 

580 

Gram, 
„    P'hulee.  Earth 

584 

680 

Nut, 
Mukhum  Seem,  Sabre 

584 

580 

Bean, 

584 

580 

Murchaee,  Capsicum, 
Mutke  ke  Pullie,  Small 

584 

580 

580 

Sabre  Bean, 

584 

Nurcha,  Sag  Greens, 

585 

581 

Paluk  Sag,  Bengal  Beet, 

585 

581 

Pan,  Betel  Pepper, 

585 

581 

Peeaj,  Onion, 

585 

581 

Peeaz,  Shallot, 

685 

551 

Pendaloo,  Small  Yam, 

585 

581 

Phoot,  Field  Cucumber, 

585 

581 

Pipilii,  Long  Pepper, 
Poodeneh,  Mint, 

585 

586 

58S 

Poe,  Malabar  NighUhade, 

586 

Pulwul,  Snake  Gourd, 

586 

582 

Pulpul,  Allspice, 

586 

582 

Bai,  Mustard, 

586 

582 

Salbea,  Sage, 
Shulgum,  Turnip, 

586 
586 

582 

Souf,  Sweet  Fennel* 

586 

582 

Sayme  ke  Pullie,  Native 

Bean, 

586 

582 

Sayme  ke  Pullie  Lai,  ^ 

582 

Native  Bean, 

586 

582 

Soot'hnee,  Yam, 

586 

583 

Sukur  Kund,  Sweet 

Potatoe, 

586 

583 

Sufed  Tulsee,  White 

Basil, 

587 

583 

Sttfura  Koomra,  Vegetable 

Marrow, 

587 

583 

Thurboo*,  Water  Melon, 

587 

583 

Zeera,  Cummin  Seed, 

587 

ZuTumbad,  Zeodary, 

587 

583 

Vegetables,  to  dress. 

212 

Venison, 

209 

583 

„    Crust  for  pasly. 

210 

583 

„     or  Hare  Sauce, 

127 

583 

.,    Hashed, 

204 

Digitized  by 


Google 


INDEX. 


645 


Page 

Page 

Venison  Pasty, 

210 

Wet  Nurse, 

5 

Vinegar,  Basils 

254 

Wild  Fowl,  Marinade  for. 

210 

Vinegar, 

256 

„   Duck  Sauce, 

124 

„     Camp, 

254 

Wheat  Flummery, 

820 

„     Cayenne,  Chilli,  Bed 

Whey, 

321 

or  Green, 

255 

„    Lemon, 

822 

„     Cress. 

255 

„    Milk,  Clarified, 

822 

„     Cacnmber, 

254 

„     White  Wine, 

32 1 

„    Another, 

254 

„        „        „    Another, 

322 

„    Garlic, 

256 

White  Ants, 

532 

„     Tarragon, 

255 

„    roux. 

120 

„     Toddy, 

256 

M    Pot. 

811 

„     White  Wine, 

256 

,.     Soup, 

60 

Vine,  cultivation, 

594 

„    Wine  Vinegar, 

256 

Vocabulary  of  culinary 

„    Sauce  for  Haricot, 

167 

terms,                           368,372 

Wild  Goose, 

209 

Vol-au-Vent, 

100 

Wilson's  Cement, 

523 

„    Petit  anx  huitres, 

102 

Wintering  Plants, 

654 

Wine  Flip, 

349 

W 

Woollen  Cloths,  to  preserve 

Wallace's  Cholera  Mixture,- 

644 

from  Insects, 

628 

Walnut,  cultivation. 

613 

Woodcock,  to  dress. 

209 

Wampee, 

613 

Worms, 

46 

Walnut  for  Dessert, 

309 

„    Cure  for  long  White, 

46 

Watering  plants, 

554 

„    Garden, 

555 

Watercress, 

575 

Wounds  in  Trees, 

555 

„    to  cool. 

356 

„    Ices, 

362 

Y 

„    Gruel, 

822 

Teast,  Substitute  for. 

804 

„    to  Purify, 

855 

„     Kummier, 

450 

„    Souchy, 

91 

Yellow  Butter, 

51 

Wasp  or  Bee,  to  remove  the 

Yorkshire  Goose  Pie, 

196 

sting  of. 

642 

„    Pudding, 

287 

Wax  Stains,  to  remove  from 

Cloth, 

628 

z 

Weights  and  Measures, 

453 

Zeimny  Kund,  Yam  variety, 

581 

Welsh  Babbit, 

242 

Zeera, 

687 

„    Gallimaufry, 

242 

Zurumbad,  Huldie, 

687 

Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APPENDIX. 


Act  No.  XVIL  op  1853. 

An  km  for  the  ManagemefU  of  tie  Post   Office^  for  the 
regulation  of  the  duties  of  Postage  and  for  the  PunisAmen^ 
of  Offences  against  the  Post  Office. 

I.    Act    No.    XVII.    of  1837,  Act  No,  XX.   of  1838, 

and  Act  No.  XVII,  of  1889,  are  hereby 

Repeal  of  formttAisti.    repealed,  except  so  far  as  they  repeal  the 

whole,   or  any  part  of  any  other  Act  or 

Begalation,    and    except    as  to   any    act  or   offence  which 

shall  have  been  done  or  committed,  or  to   any  money  which 

shall  have  become   due,    or  to  any  fine    or   penalty  which 

shall  have    been    incurred,    or    to    any    proceedings   which 

shall  have  been    commenced,    before    this    Act  shall  come 

into  operation. 

n.  Wheresoever,  within  the  territories  under  the  Govern- 

ment    of  the   East  India  Company^  posts 

J^in^tST^t^    Of  P08*  communications  are,  or  shall  be 

in  AeW  India  Com-    established  by  the  said  East  India  Com- 

pany.  * 

pany,  the  said  East  India  Company  shall 
have  the  exclusive  privilege  of  conveying  by  post,  from 
one  place  to  another,  all  letters  other  than  letters  con- 
veyed by  Her  Majesty's  Mails,  except  in  the  following 
cases,  and  shall  also  have  the  exclusive  privilege  of  per- 
forming   all  the  incidental    services  of  receiving,   collecting. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


648  APPENDIX. 

sending,    despatching,  and   delivering  all    letters,   except  in 
the  following  cases,   that  is  to  say: — 

1.  Letters  sent  by  a  private  friend  in  his  way,  journey 
or  travel,  so  as  such  letters  be  delivered  by  such  friend 
to  the  person  to  whom  they  shall  be  directed,  without 
hire,  reward  or  other  profit  or  advantage,  for  receiving, 
carrying,   or  delivering  the    same. 

S.  Letters  solely  concerning  the  affedrs  of  the  sender  or 
receiver  thereof,  sent  by  a  messenger  on  purpose. 

8.  Letters  solely  concerning  goods  or  other  property 
sent  either  by  sea  or  land,  to  be  delivered  with  the  goods 
or  property  which  such  letters  concern,  without  hire,  or 
reward,  or  other  profit  or  advantage,  for  receiving,  carry- 
ing, or  delivering  such  letters. 

But  nothing  herein  contained  shall  authorise  any  per- 
son to  make  a  collection  of  such  excepted  letters  for  the 
purpose   of  sending  them  in  the  manner  hereby  authorized* 

III.  Wheresoever,    within    the  said    Territories,  posts  or 
post    communications  are,    or    shall    be 
ProhibitionB.  established  by  the  East   India  Company, 

the  following  persons  are  expressly  for- 
bidden to  collect,  carry,  or  deliver  any  letter  or  letters, 
or  to  receive  any  letter  for  the  purpose  of  carrying  or 
delivering  the  same,  although  they  shall  not  receive  hire 
or  reward  for  so  doing,  that  is  to  say: 

1.  Common  carriers  of  passengers  or  goods,  and  their 
drivers,  servants,  or  agents,  except  letters  solely  concerning 
goods  in  their  carriages. 

2.  Owners  and  Commanders  of  ships,  steam-boats^  or  other 
vessels  passing  on  any  river  or  canal,  or  to  or  from  any 
port  in  the  territories  under  the  Government  of  the  East 
India  Company,  and  their  servants,  or  agents,  except  letters 
solely  concerning  goods  on  board. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APPENDIX.  649 

IV.  Every  person  who  shall  convey  otherwise  than  by 
the  post  a  letter  not  excepted  from  the 
ofpri^/°'^'**  said  exclusive  privilege  shall,  for  every 
letter  so  conveyed,  forfeit  a  sum  not  ex« 
ceeding  fifty  rupees;  and  every  person  who  shall  be  in 
the  practice  of  so  conveying  letters  not  so  excepted  shall, 
for  every  week  during  which  the  practice  shall  be  continued, 
forfeit  a  further  sum  not  exceeding  five  hundred  rupees;  and 
every  person  who  shall  perform  otherwise  than  by  the  post, 
any  services  incidental  to  conveying  letters  from  place  to 
place,  whether  by  receiving,  taking  up,  ordering,  collect- 
ing,  carrying,  or  delivering  a  letter  or  letters  not  excepted 
from  the  said  exclusive  privilege,  shall  forfeit  for  every 
such  letter  a  sum  not  exceeding  fifty  rupees;  and  every 
person  who  shaU  be  in  the  practice  of  so  performing  any 
such  incidental  services  shall,  for  every  week  during  Which 
the  practice  shall  be  continued,  forfeit  a  farther  sum  not 
exceeding  five  hundred  rupees;  and  every  person  who 
shall  send  a  letter  not  excepted  from  the  said  exclusive 
privilege,  otheiwise  than  by  the  post,  or  shall  either  tender 
or  deliver  a  letter  not  so  excepted  in  order  to  be  sent 
otherwise  than  by  the  post,  shall  forfeit  for  every  such  letter 
a  sum  not  exceeding  fifty  rupees;  and  every  person  who 
shall  be  in  the  practice  of  committing  any  of  the  acts 
last  mentioned  shall,  for  every  week  during  which  the 
practice  shall  be  continued,  forfeit  a  further  sum  not  ex*^ 
ceeding  five  hundred  rupees;  and  every  person  who  shall 
make  a  collection  of  excepted  letters  for  the  purpose  of 
sending  them  otherwise  than  by  the  post,  shall  forfeit  for 
every  such  letter  a  sum  not  exceeding  fifty  rupees ;  and 
every  person  who  shall  be  in  the  practice  of  making  a 
collection  of  excepted  letters  for  such  purpose  shall  forfeit, 
for  every  week  during  which  the  practice  shall  continue, 
a  further  sum  not  exceeding  five  hundred  rupees.  Every 
person  who  shall  carry,  receive,  or  deliver  a  letter,  or  col- 
lect letters  contrary  to  the  provisions  of  Section  III. 
of  this  Act,  shall  forfeit  for  every   such  letter  a  sum  not 

k3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


650  APPfiNPIX. 

exceeding  fifty  rupees;  and  every  person  who  shall  be  in 
the  practice  of  committing  any  of  the  acts  last  mentioned 
shall,  for  every  week  daring  which  the  practice  shall  be 
continued,  forfeit  a  farther  sum  not  exceeding  five  hun- 
dred rupees. 

V.  For   carrying    on   the    service  of   the  Post  Office,  it 

shall  be  lawful  for  the  Governor  General 
o^en!^*""'*°'  of    India  in  Council  to    appoint,   or  to 

authorize  the  local  Governments  to  ap* 
point  such  Officer  or  Officers,  with  such  official  styles  or 
designations,  and  to  vest  them  with,  and  delegate  to  them 
such  powers  not  inconsistent  with  the  provisions  of  this 
Act,  as  the  said  Governor  General  of  India  in  Council 
may  deem   expedient. 

VI.  Wheresoever  posts   or    post  communications  are,   or 
Postage  ratea  on  shall    be    established   by  the  East  India 

^**^"*  Company,  postage,  if  pre-paid  by  a  stamp 

or  stamps,  as  hereinafter  provided,  shall  be  charged  by 
weight  on  letters  transmitted  by  the  letter  post  by  sea 
or  land,  or  partly  by  sea  and  partly  by  land,  according 
to   the  following  scale: 

On  every  letter  not  exceeding  a  quarter  of  a  tolah  in 
weight,   six  pies. 

On  every  letter  exceeding  a  quarter  of  a  tolah,  and  not 
exceeding  half  a   tolah   in  weight,   one  anna. 

On  every  letter  exceeding  half  a  tolah,  but  not  exceed- 
ing one  tolah  in  weight,    two    annas. 

On  every  letter  exceeding  one  tolah,  and  not  exceeding 
one  tolah   and  a  half  in  weight,  three    annas. 

On  every  letter  exceeding  one  tolah  and  a  half,  and  not 
exceeding   two  tolahs  in   weight,  four   annas. 

And  for  every  tolah  in  weight  above  two  tolahs,  two 
additional  annas;  and  every  fraction  of  a  tolah  above  two 
tolahs  shall  be   charged   as  one  additional   tolah. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APPENDIX,  651 

Every  packet  or  other  article  transmitted  by  the  letter 
post  shall  be  deemed  a  letter  within  the  meaning  of  this 
section,  unless  it  be  a  packet  or  other  article  on  which 
a  different  rate  of  postage  shall  be  chargeable  under  this 
Act 

The  rates  of  postage  specified  in  this  and  the  following 
section  may  be  charged  on  all  letters  or  other  articles 
which  shall  pass  through  any  Post  Office,  provided  that 
such  postage  shall  not  be  charged  on  letters  or  other  ar* 
tides  received  through  Her  Majesty's  Mails,  when  such 
letters  or  articles  are  delivered  at  the  place  of  receipt;  nor 
on  any  letter  or  article  transmitted  by  Her'  Majesty's 
Mails,  when  posted  at  the  place  of  despatch  of  such  Mails ; 
nor  on  any  newspaper  received  by  sea  otherwise  than 
through  the  £ast  India  Gompan/s  post  and  delivered  at . 
the  place  of  receipt;  nor  on  any  newspaper  posted  for 
despatch  by  sea  or  otherwise  than  through  the  East  India 
Company's .  Post,   when  posted  at  the  place  of  despatch. 

yiL    Wheresoever  posts  or  post  communications  are,  or 

shall    be    established    by  the    East   India 

Pottage  nttflson  newi-  Company,    postage    on    newspapers,   pam- 

pupew,  kc.  phlets,  and  other  printed  or  engraved  papers 

transmitted  by  the   letter   post  by  sea    or 

land,  or  partly  by  sea  and  partly  by  land,  shall  be  charged  by  * 

weight  according  to   the  following  scale : 

1.  On  every  imported  newspaper,  pamphlet,  or  other 
printed  or  engraved  paper — 

If  the  same  shall  not  exceed  six  tolahs  in  weighty  one 
anna. 

If  the  same  shall  exceed  six,  but  shall  not  exceed  twelve 
tolahs  in  weight,  two   annas. 

If  the  same  sh^  exceed  twelve  tolahs  in  weight,  there 
shall  be  charged  and  taken  one  additional  anna  for  every 
six  tolahs  in  weight  above  twelve  tolahs;  and  every  fraction 
of  six  tolahs  above  twelve  tolahs  shall  be  charged  as  six 
additional  tolahs. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


652  APPENDIX. 

Z.  On  every  newspaper,  pamphlet,  or  other  printed  or 
engraved  paper  not  imported — 

If  the  same  shall  not  exceed  fonr  tolahs  in  weight,  one 
anna. 

If  the  same  exceed  four  tolahs  and  not  exceed  six  tolahs 
in  weight,  two  annas. 

If  the  same  shall  exceed  six  tolahs  in  weight,  there 
shall  be  charged  and  taken  one  additional  anna  for  eveiy 
three  tolahs  in  weight  above  six  tolahs;  and  every  fraction 
of  three  tolahs  above  six  tolahs  in  weight  shall  be  charged 
as   three  additional  tolahs. 

An  extra  or  supplement  to  any  newspaper,,  bearing  the 
same  date  as  the  newspaper  and  transmitted  therewith  un- 
der the  same  cover,  shall  be  deemed  part  of  the  newspaper. 

Nothing  contained  in  this  Act  shall  be  construed  to 
oblige  any  person  to  send  any  newspaper,  pamphlet,  or 
other  printed  or  engraved  paper  through  the  Post  Office, 
but  it  shall  be  lawful  for  all  persons  to  send  the  same  in 
any  other  manner. 

Till.    A  newspaper,    pamphlet,  or   other  printed  or  en« 

graved  paper  shall  not  be  sent  by  the  let- 

Kewspapen,  8u:..  ter  post  at  the  ratcs  presoribed  in  the  pre- 

how  to  be  sent  by  t         «       •  i  t       i»  ti       •  i. 

post.  ceding  Section,  unless  the  following  condi- 

I  tions  be  observed,  that   is  to  say: — 

1;  It  shall  be  without  a  cover,  or  in  a  short  cover  open 
at  both   ends. 

2.  There  shall  be  no  word  printed  on  such  newspaper, 
pamphlet,  or  other  printed  or  engraved  paper  after  its  publi- 
cation, or  upon  the  cover  thereof,  nor  any  writing  or 
mark  upon  it,  or  upon  the  cover  of  it,  except  the  name 
and  address  of  the  person  to  whom  it  is  sent,  and  the 
name  and  address  of  the  sender. 

3.  There  shall  be  no  paper  or  thing  enclosed  in  or 
with  any  such  newspaper,  pamphlet,  or  other  printed  or 
engraved   paper. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APPENDIX. 


653 


When  to  be  charged 
with  letter  postage. 


IX.  Any  newspaper,  pamphlet,  or  other  printed  or  en- 
graved paper  sent  by  the  letter  post,  in 
respect  of  which  the  above  conditions 
shall    not    be    observed,    shall,    together 

with  any  thing  enclosed  in  or  with  the  same,  be  charged 
with  postage  at  the  rate  which  would  be  charged  on  an 
unstamped  letter  of  equal  weight. 

X.  Proof  sheets  marked  as    such  may  be  sent    by  the 

letter  post  at  the  rates  prescribed  for 
Proof  Sheets.  newspapers,  provided  the  contents  be  cor- 

rectly certified  on  the  cover  by  the  sig- 
nature in  full  of  the  sender,  otherwise  the  same  shall  be 
charged  with  postage  at  the  rate  which  would  be  charged 
on  an  unstamped  letter  of  equal  weight. 

XL    Inland  banghy  postage  shall   be  charged  by   weight 
and    distance,     on    parcels    sent   by     the 
portage.        ^  banghy    post,  according  to  the    following 

scale: 


Fom  DiiTAifCBs. 

If  hot  zzatSDiifo  ui  wxioht 

SO 
TohUis. 

100 

Tolahs. 

900 
Tolahs. 

800 
Tolahs. 

400 
Tokhs. 

600 
Tohihs. 

eoo 

Tohihs. 

Miles. 
Not  Exceeding   100 
Not  Exceeding   300 
Not  Exceeding   600 
Not  Exceeding   900 
Not  Exceeding  1200 
Exceeding  .    .  1200 

B.    A. 
0     2 

0    6 

0  12 

1  2 
1    8 
1  14 

B.    A. 
0     4 

0  12 

1  8 

2  4 

3  0 
3  12 

B.    A. 

0  8 

1  8 

3  0 

4  8 

6  0 

7  8 

B.    A. 

0  12 
2    4 
4    8 
6  12 
9    0 
11    4 

B.    A. 
1     0 

3    0 

6    0 

9    0 

12    0 

16    0 

B.    A. 
1     4 
8  12 

7    8 
11    4 
15    0 
18  12 

B.    A. 
1     8 

4    8 

9    0 

13    8 

18    0 

22    8 

Provided  that  several  letters  shall  not  be  enclosed  in  a 
banghy   parcel  under  a  penalty  not  exceeding   fifty  Rupees, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


6S4  APPENDIX. 

and  letter  postage  shall    be  chargeable  on  every  letter  con-^ 
tained  therein, 

XII.    Books,   pamphlets,    packets  of   newspapers,    and   of 
printed    or    engraved    papers  other    than 
^Booki,  Fampiiieta,  newspapers,  provided   they  do  not  exceed 

one  hundred  and  twenty  tolahs  in  weighty 
and  be  sent  without  covers,  or  packed  in  short  covers 
op^  at  both  ends,  and  provided  the  postage  thereon  be 
pre-paid  by  means  of  a  proper  stamp  or  stamps  to  be  affix- 
ed thereon  as  hereinafter  provided,  shall,  if  sent  by  the 
banghy  post,  or  by  sea  as  banghy  parceb,  or  partly  by 
the  banghy  post  and  partly  by  sea,  be  charged  with  the 
following  rates  of  postage,  without  reference  to  the  distance 
to  which  they   may  be   carried  : — 

If  not  exceeding  twenty  tolahs  in  weight,  one  anna. 

If  exceeding  twenty  tolahs,  but  not  exceeding  forty  tolahs 
in  weight,  two    annas. 

And  for  every  twenty  tolahs  in  weight  above  forty 
tolahs,  there  shall  be  charged  and  taken  one  additional 
anna ;  and  every  fraction  of  twenty  tolahs  above  forty 
tolahs  shall  be  charged  as  twenty   additional  tolahs. 

If  any  such  book,  pamphlet,  or  packet  exceed  one  hun- 
dred and  twenty  tolahs,  or  if  the  postage  chargeable 
thereon  be  not  pre-paid,  as  aforesaid,  it  shall  be  subject 
to  the  rate  of  postage  prescribed  for  banghy  parceb  in  the 
preceding  Section  of  this    Act. 

Xin.  Banghy  postage,  when  chargeable  by  distance 
under  section  XI.,  shall  be  calculated  and 
Tibie  of  Diatances.  charged  accordiug  to  a  Polimetrical  Table 
of  Distances,  showing,  as  accurately  as 
practicable,  the  distance  by  the  nearest  road  between  every 
two  Post  Office  Stations  in  India,  which  Table  shall  be 
prepared  by  order  of  the  Governor  General  of  India  in  * 
Council  and  correct'Cd  from  time  to  time  as  need  be. 
Each  Post  Master  General  shall  prepare  from  the  aforesaid 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APPENDIX.  655 

Polimetrical  Table^  in  the  English  and  Yernacalar  langua- 
ges, for  the  use  of  every  P6st  (Mce  under  his  control,  a 
list  of  all  the  other  Post  Offices  of  India,  arranged  al- 
phabeticaUy  and  Rowing  the  distance  of  each  of  them 
from  the  Post  Office  for  the  use  of  which  it  is  made; 
and  such  list  shall  be  affixed  in  some  conspicuous  place 
in  such  Post  Office. 

XIV.  Where  there  is  a  banghy  post  established  on  any 

line  of  road,    no    letter    or    other    article 
lunitatioii  of  wdpa    cxcccding    twelve    tolahs    in    weight   shall 

or    leclen  wnere  tbere      m  -»     % 

if  a  Banghy  Pott  be  couveycd   by    the  letter  post   on    that 

line  of  road,  except  in  such  cases,  and 
under  such  restrictions,  as  the  Governor  General  of  India 
in  Council  may  direct;  and  every  letter  or  other  article 
not  exceeding  twelve  tolahs  in  weight  shall  be  conveyed 
by  the  letter  post,  unless  expressly  directed  to  be  sent  by 
the  banghy  post. 

XV.  Where  there  is  no  banghy  post  established  on  any 
Where  there  is  no    ^^^^  ^^  ^^^^9   letters,  parcds,  and  packets 

Banghy  Post.  exceeding  twelve  tolahs,     and   not  exceed- 

ing forty  tolahs  in  weight,  shall  be  re- 
ceived and  transmitted  by  the  letter  post. 
Letters  shall  be  charged  according    to  the 

Letters    and    other      a     ^       •        a     l'  -ytt  3 

articles  exceeding  12  Scalc  m  Scction  vl.,  and  newspapers, 
^g^**toiX**"*^'  pamphlets,  and  other  printed  or  engraved 
papers  according  to  the  Scale  in  Section 
VII.  of  this  Act,  as  the  case  may  be;  parcels  and  packets 
shall  be  charged  with  banghy  postage  according  to  the  scale 
in  Section'  XI.  or  Section  XII.  of  this  Act,  as  the  case  may 
^  ^.^  ^  be,    if  it  be  certified  in  writing,  on    such 

Certificate.  '  ^ 

parcel  or  packet,   under  the  full    signature 

and  address   of    the  sender,   that    it   does  not    contain    any 

letter  or   other   written     communication,   or  any  newspaper, 

pamphlet,  or  other  printed  or  engravfed  paper. 

If  any  such  Certificate  be  false,   any  such  thing  contain- 
ed in  such  certified  letter  or  other  article  shall  be  charg- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


il 


656  APPENDIX. 

ed  with  postage  according  to. the  rates  specified  in  Sections 
YI.  or  Section  YII.  of  this  Act  as  if  sent  separately,  and 
the   sender   will  be  subject  to  the  penalty    h^einafter  pro- 

vided.  Parcels  exceeding  forty  tolahs,  but 
iO^toUhs    exceeding    j^^^  exceeding  six  hundred  tobiis,  in  weight, 

shall  be  transmitted  along  any  sach  line, 
as  banghy  parcels.  But  it  shall  be  in  the  discretion  of 
the  Post  Master  or  Deputy  Post  Master,  to  whom  such 
parcels  are  brought  for  dispatch,  to  forward  them  at  such 
times  and  in  such  manner  as  may  be  convenient, 

XVI.  Whenever  the  Post  Master  General  of  any  Presi- 
dency  shall  have  notified  in  the  Official  Gazette,  that  the 

banghy  post  is  conveyed  in  the  same  car- 
riage with  the  letter  post  along  any  line 
•nd?e?to'^a£^r?^  of  road,  it  shall  not  be  lawful  to  send 
tgedia  the  «me  earn,  ^^y  ^^6  banghy  post  any  letter,  or  writ- 
ten communication  of  less  weight  than 
twelve  tolahs,  or  any  packet  of  newspaper ;  and  every  per- 
son who  shall  knowingly  send  by  the  banghy  post  along 
any  such  line  of  road,  any  such  letter,  written  communica- 
tion, or  newspaper  enclosed  in  a  parcel,  shall  forfeit  for 
every  such  offence  a  sum  not  exceeding  fifty  rupees,  and 
postage  shall  be  charged  for  every  such  letter,  packet,  or 
newspaper,  as  if  sent  separately  by  the  letter  post. 

XVII.  On  all  parcels  chargeable  under  Section  XI.  with 

banghy  postage  according  to  distance  when 
Ship  Posugc  on  pMt^is.     conveyed  by  land,  ship  postage  shall  be 

charged  when  they  are  conveyed  by  means 
of  the  East  India  Company's  post  by  sea  according  to  the 
following  scale,   viz.: 

On  every  parcel  not  exceeding  one  hundred  tolahs  in 
weight,  eight   annas. 

And  for  every  hundred  tolahs  in  weight  above  one  hun- 
dred tolahs,  eight  additional  annas ;  and  every  fraction  of 
one  hundred  tolahs  above  one  hundred  tolahs  shall  be  charg- 
ed as  one  hundred  additional  tolahs;    and  if    such  parcel 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ABPltNDIX.  657 

be  conveyed  by  the  East  India  Company's  post,  partly  by 
banghy  and  partly  by  sea,  ship  postage  shall  be  charged 
in    addition  to  inland  banghy  postage. 

XVIII.  No     parcel     exceeding    six    hundred    tolahs    in 

weight,   or  three  feet  in    lengthy  or    one 

Limitation  of  wcirfit     f^o^  1^  breadth,  or  one  foot  in  depth,   or 

a»ddimeo»an.orparoa..     ^^^  thousand   five    hundred   and    ninety. 

two  cubic  inches  in  bulk,  shall  be  re- 
ceived at  any  Post  Office  for  despatch  either  by  ship  or 
steam  boat,  or  by  banghy  post,  except  in  such  cases  and 
under  such  restrictions  as  the  Governor  General  of  India 
in  Council  shall  direct.  On  parcels  exceeding  six  hundred 
tolahs  in  weight,  when  so  forwarded,  there  shall  be  charg- 
ed and  taken  an  additional  single  rate  of  banghy.'Jpostage 
according  to  distance  for  every  hundred  tolalis  above  six 
hundred  tolahs;  and  every  fraction  of  one  hundred  tolahs 
above  six  hundred  tolahs  shall  be  charged  as  one  hun- 
dred additional   tolahs. 

XIX.  Letters  and  newspapers  posted  for   despatch,  either 

by    Her    Majesty's   Mails  or    otherwise    to 

Ship     and    Inland    Ccylou,    or  to    any  place  to  which   a   post 

JSSf®™„Jf  K?'t!5?    communication  shall  not   have  been   estab- 

coren  must    be  pre- 

^"^  lished   by  the   East   India  Company,    upon 

which  the  full  amount  of  postage  charge- 
able under  this  Act  has  not  been  pre-paid  by  a  postage 
stamp  or  stamps,  shall  not  be  despatched,  but  shall  be 
dealt  with  as  unclaimed  letters  are  hereinafter  directed  to 
be  dealt  with.  No  parcel  shall  be  received  for  despatch 
as  above  to  any  such  place,  unless  the  full  amount  of 
postage  chargeable  thereon  shall  be  prepaid  in  money  or 
by  a  postage  stamp  or  stamps.  Provided  that  nothing 
in  this  section  shall  be  construed  to  require  the  prepay* 
ment  of  British  postage  on  letters,  parcels,  or  other  arti- 
c1eS|  upon  which  the  pre-payment  of  such  postage  has  been 
left  optional  by  Her   Majesty's  Post  Master   General. 

l3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


658  APPENDIX. 

XX.    Subject    to    aBj    alteration    which    may    be    made 
by  virtue  of  the  power  hereinafter  vested 
Postage  on  letten,  8cc.    ^^  ^^^    GoverDor    General    of    India    ia 
not  pre-paid.  Council,  letters  posted  for  despatch,  either 

by  sea  or  land,  to  any  place  to  which 
a  post  communication  is,  or  shall  be  established  by  the 
East  India  Company,  upon  which  the  postage  chargeable 
under  Section  YI.  of  this  Act  has  not  been  pre-paid  by 
a  postage  stamp  or  stamps,  shall  be  forwarded  to  their 
destination,  and  upon  every  such  letter  double  postage 
shall  be  charged  on  delivery.  Newspapers,  pamphlet^  and 
other  printed  and  engraved  papers  so  posted,  not  pre-paid 
by  a  postage  stamp  or  stamps,  shall  be  forwarded  to 
their  destination,  and  the  postage  chargeable  on  them  shall 
be  levied  on  delivery ;  but  no  money  shall  be  received  at 
any  Post  Office  in  pre-payment  of  postage  on  any  letter, 
newspaper,  pamphlet,  or  'other  printed  or  engraved  paper 
80  posted.  On  parcels  so  posted,  the  postage  chargeable 
according  to  Section  XI.  or  Section  XYII.  may  be  pre-paid 
in  money  or  by  a  postage  stamp  or  stamps;  when  not 
pre-paid,  they  shall  be  forwarded  to  their  destination,  and 
the  postage    thereon  shall  bo  levied  on  delivery. 


XXI.  It  shall  be  lawful  for  the  Governor  General  of 
India  in  Council  at  any  time  to  direct 
courcu'Sly^rJS'p)?.  that  all  or  any  letters,  packets,  parcels, 
paj^eatofpo-tagemau  ^^  ^^^^^  articles,  shaU  uot  be  forward- 
ed by  post,  unless  the  postage  thereof 
shall  be  pre-paid  by  means  of  a  proper  stamp  or  stamps; 
or  that  on  all  or  any  letters,  packets,  parcels,  or  other 
articles  on  which  postage  shall  not  be  pre-paid  by  a  stamp 
or  stamps,  or  otherwise,  as  the  said  Governor  General  in 
Council  shall  direct,  there  shall  be  charged  such  higher 
rates  of  postage  as  from  time  to  time  may  be  deemed  ex- 
pedient, not  exceeding  double  the  rates  of  postage  herein- 
before  specified. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APPENDIX.  659 

XXn.    If  any  letter  be  posted,    having    affixed    thereto 
a  postas^e   stamp  or  stamps,  the  value  of 

Letters,    kc,.   with  in-  r         O  .      r  r  > 

nffidrat    Btampa,  how    which  shall  be  less  than  the  rate  of  post- 
charged.  * 

age  to  which  such  letter  would  be  lia- 
ble if  duly  and  properly  stamped  when  posted,  there  shall 
be  charged  on  such  letter  a  postage  of  double  the  amount 
of  the  difference  between  the  value  of  the  stamp  affixed 
thereto  and  the  postage  to  which  such  letter  would  be 
liable  as  aforesaid  if  duly  and  properly  stamped  when  post- 
ed. If  any  parcel>  newspaper,  pamphlet,  or  other  printed 
or  engraved  paper  shall  be  so  posted,  having  affixed  thereto 
any  such  stamp  or  stamps,  the  value  of  which  shall  be 
less  than  the  rate  of  postage  to  which  the  same  would  be 
otherwise  liable  under  this  Act,  there  shall  be  charged  there- 
on a  postage  equal  to  the  amount  of  the  difference  be- 
tween the  value  of  the  stamp  or  stamps  affixed  thereto, 
and  the  postage  to  which  such  parcel,  newspaper,  pamphlet, 
or  other  printed  or  engraved  paper  shall  be  otherwise  lia- 
ble, as  aforesaid. 

XXIII.  On  every  letter  or  packet,  which'  shall  be  re- 
,  ^.  ^  ^  ,  ^  directed     and    forwarded    by    the    letter 

Se-directea  letters.  ^ 

post,  from  any  place  to  which  it  shall 
have  been  conveyed  by  the  letter  post,  there  shall  be  charg- 
ed for  the  postage  thereof  from  the  place  at  which  the 
same  shall  be  re-directed,  in  addition  to  all  other  postage 
paid  or  due  thereon,  the  rate  of  postage  to  which  it 
would  be  liable,  if  posted  and  pre-paid  by  stamp  at  the 
place  where  it  shall  be  re-directed. 

XXIV.  No  person  shall  knowingly  post,  or  send,  or  ten- 

der, or  deliver  in  order  to  be  sent,  by  the 
tobeS^t^TSSBt^'**''^^  V^^\  ^°y  letter,  parcel,  or  packet  contain- 
ing any  explosive  or  other  dangerous  ma- 
terial or  substance;  and  any  person  contravening  this  prohi- 
bition shall  forfeit  for  every  such  offence  a  sum  not  ex- 
ceeding two  hundred  rupees. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


660  APPENDIX. 

XXY.    It  shall  be  lawful  for  the   Govenior   General  of 
,    India  in  Council  at  any  time  to  aathoroe 

Governor    General     of  ' 

India  in  €oiuicUin&]r  alter    the  levY  of  postace  at  rates  different  from 

the  rates  of  poatage.  J  r       -o 

those  prescribed  in  this  Act^  provided 
there  be  no  increase  made  thereby  in  any  particolar  of  the 
rates  so  prescribed^  except  as  provided  in  Section  XXI.  of 
this  Aot. 

XXVL    No  person  having  delivered  into  any  Post  Office 

any  letter^   parcel,  or  packet  shall  be  en- 

iiBtten    tad  packeCt    titled  to    rccaU  the  same;    bat   nothing 

OHM  put   into  thp  Poat 

Office.  in  this  Section  shall  prevent  the  re-deli- 

very of  any  such  letter,  parcel,  or  packet 
to  the  sender  thereof,  subject  to  such  rales  and  regola- 
tions,  if  any,  as  the  Governor  General  of  India  in  Coun- 
cil may  direct ;  but  newspapers,  pamphlets,  or  other  print* 
ed  or  engraved  papers  may  be  so  recalled  or  restored,  pro- 
vided that  the  person  claiming  the  same  shall  satisfy  the 
Officer  in  charge  of  the  Post  Office  that  he  was  the  sender 
thereof,  and  provided  the  amount  of  postage  which  would 
have  been  due  thereon^  if  the  same  had  been  forwarded^ 
be   paid. 

XXVn*    The  postage  charged  on  letters  and   packets  by 
Her     Majesty's     Post     Master-  General^ 
steam  Foatage.  Under  the   name  of    Steamer    or  British 

packet  postage,  or  by  any  other  denomi- 
nation, shall,  after  the  rates  of  such  postage  have  been 
published  in  the  official  Gazette  of  any  Presidency,  be  re- 
covered in  the  same  manner  as  postage  chargeable  under 
this  Act. 

XXVin.    All  letters  and  other  articles,  having   a  stamp 

or    stamps    affixed    thereto,   (such  stamp 

FoikaKe  Bttfnpg.  or    stamps    in  every    case  being  affixed 

Y>n  the  outside  and  being  equal  in  value 

to  the  rate  or  rates  of    postage  to  which  such  letters  or 


Digitized  by 


Google 


A?PKNDIX.  661 

other  articles  are  liable  under  this  ActJ  shall,  provided 
the  stamp  or  stamps  shall  not  have  been  used  before,  be 
considered  as  pre-paid. 

XXIX.  The  Governor  General  of  India  in  Council  shall 

cause  postage  stamps  to  be  provided,  de- 
^ow  to  be   prond-    j^^j^j^  ^^^^  ^^^  as  the  said   Governor 

General  of  India  in  Comcil  may  direct, 
ajod  shall  give  such  orders  and  make  suoh  other  r^ula- 
tions    relative  thereto^  as  may  be  deemed  expedient. 

XXX.  Postage  stamps  provided  as  jsforesaid  shall  be  un- 

der   the  care    and   management    of  such 
Postage  itunpi  to  be    Officer  or  Officers  as  the  Governor  Gene- 

tmder  management  of  any 

Officer  to  be  appointed.       ral  of  India  in  Council  shall  direct;    and 
all  sums  of  money  realized    by  the  sale 
of  postage  stamps  shall  be  carried  in  the  public  accounts  to 
the  credit  of   the  Post  Office. 

XXXI.  The  GovemcNr  General  of  India  in  Council  may 
^   ,      .    ^  make  rules  for  the  wpointment  and  Go- 

Yendora  of  postago  -i 

stamps  to  be  appoint-  vemmeut  of  vcudors  of  postage  stamps, 
and  thereby  direct  how  and  under  what 
terms  and  condition  postage  stamps  may  be  supplied  to 
them  for  sale ;  and  whether  any  and  what  security  shall 
be  given  by  such  vendors,  and  whether  any  and  what  re- 
muneration or  discount  shall  be  allowed  to  them;  and  how 
and  in  what  manner  and  at  what  time  or  time  such  ven- 
dors shall  keep  and  render  their  accounts  and  pay  over 
the  proceeds  of  any  sales  made  by  them  or  re-deliver  the 
stamps    entrusted   to  them. 

XXXII.  Government  vendors  of  postage  stamps  shall  be 

bound    by    such    rules,    and   in    case    of 

to  a  penalty  not  exceeding  two  hundred 
rupees,  in  addition  to  any  other  proceedings  to  which  they 
may  be  liable. 


Digitized  by 


Google        


662  APPENDIX. 

XXXIIL    Any    Government    vendor  of  postage    stamps, 

who    shall    be    convicted    of   refasiDg  or 

Penalty  of  Tendor       unnecessarilv   ddayinff,  without  reasonable 

musmg     to     supply  "^        .1 

stamps.  excuse,  to  furnish  postage  stamps  to   any 

person  desiring  to  purchase  the  same^ 
and  tendering  in  lawful  currency  the  full  value  thereof, 
(the  stamp  vendor  having  in  his  possession  for  sale  suffi- 
cient stamps  of  the  description  and  value  required,)  shall 
be  subject  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one  hundred  rupees. 

XXXIV.  Any  Government    vendor    of    postage    stamps, 

convicted  of  taking  from  a  purchaser 
^Pcnaity^of  vendor  ^  higher  price  than  the  value  denoted  on 
hiffher  price  tW  the       the  stamps   sold,  shall   be  deemed    guilty 

Taluc  denoted  thereby,  jiiii  •  1     ^ 

of  extortion,  and  shall  be  punished,  on 
conviction,  with  imprisonment,  with  or  without  hard  labour, 
for  any  term  not  exceeding  six  months,  or  to  a  fine  not 
exceeding  one  hundred  rupees,  and  shall  also  be  liable  to 
refund  to  the  purchaser  the  whole  amount  proved  to  have 
been  taken  in  excess,-  which  amount  may  be  recovered  bj 
such  purchaser  before  a  Magistrate  in^the  same  manner  as 
any  penalty  under  this  Act. 

XXXV.  Clause  1.— If  any  person  shall  forge  or  counter- 

feit, or  cause  or  procure  to  be  forged 
inJsSSp^  t^,  ^^'       ^'  counterfeited,   any  die,   plate,  or  other 

instrument  used  for  the  purpose  of  mak- 
ing postage  stamps;  or  if  any  person  shall  forge  or 
imitate,  or  cause  to  be  forged  or  imitated,  any  postage 
stamp;  or  if  any  person  shall  knowingly,  and  without 
lawful  excuse  (the  proof  of  which  excuse  shall  lie  on  the 
person  accused,)  have  in  his  possession  any  false,  forged 
or  counterfeited  die,  plate,  or  other  instrument,  resembling, 
or  intended  to  resemble,  either  wholly  or  in  part,  any  die, 
plate,  or  instrument  used  for  the  purpose  aforesaid  ;  or  if 
any  person  shall  stamp  or  mark  any  paper  or  other  sub- 
stance with  any  such  false,  forged,  or  counterfeit  die,  plate, 
or  instrument  as  aforesaid  ;    or  if  any  person  shall  know- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APPBNBIX,  663 

ingly  use,  utter,  sell,  or  expose  for  sale,  or  sliall  knowing- 
ly and  without  lawful  excuse  (the  proof  of  which  excuse 
shall  lie  on  the  person  accused)  have  in  his  possession  any 
paper  or  other  substance  having  thereon  the  impression  of 
any  such  false,  forged,  or  counterfeit  die,  plate,  or  other 
instrument  as  aforesaid;  or  having  thereon  any  counterfeit 
stamp  resembling,  or  intended  to  resemble,  or  be  mis- 
taken for  a  postage  stamp,  such  person  so  offending,  and 
every  person  knowingly  aiding,  abetting,  or  assisting  such  per* 
son  in  committing  .any  such  offence,  shall  be  punished  with 
imprisonment,  with  or  without  hard  labor,  for  a  term  not 
exceeding   seven  years,   and   shall  also   be  liable  to  fine. 

Clatue  2. — Any  Officer  of  Police   may  seize  and    trans- 
Forged  atimpf  maj  be    ^^^  ^  ^hc    Magistrate  any  such    forged 
•*^'*^  or  counterfeit  die,  plate,  or  other  instru- 

ment,  or  any  such  forged  or  counterfeit  postage  stamp. 

XXXVI.    If    any    person    shall  fraudulently  remove  any 

postage  stamp  from  any  letter,  or  other 

Penalties  for  erad-      thing  to   which    such    stamp    shall  have 

ing  Postage  stamp  du.       ^^^      ^^^^^    ^^      jj      ^^      ^^^^^      gj^^j 

knowingly  use  any  such  stamp  or  stamps 
so  fraudulently  removed;  or  if  any  person  shall  fraudu- 
lently erase  or  remove,  from  any  such  stamp  or  stamps 
any  writing  or  other  matter,  or  thing  thereon  written  or 
impressed,  every  person  so  offending  shall  forfeit  a  sum 
not  exceeding  two  hundred  rupees  for  every  such  offence. 

Clawe  3. — ^Any  Officers   of  Police  having   power  by  law 
to   search  for  stolen    property  may,  sub- 
And  searched  for.         ject    to    the   provisious  uudcr   which  he 
is  empowered  to  make  such  search,  pro- 
ceed  to   search   houses  or  other    places    in    which     there 
may    be    reasonable    cause    to    suspect    that  there   is  any 
such  forged   or  counterfeit  article,  and  shall  seize  and  trans- 
mit to  the    Magistrate  any    such    counterfeit    article    that 
may   be  found   therein. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


664  APPENDIX. 

^  XXXVII.    The    person   to   whom   any    letter    or    other 

article,  the    postage    of    which    has  not 

le^t^.  toiSTi;:^  ^^  P"^'  *>«  deUvered,  shaU  not  be 
by  the  reoeiTcr.  bonnd  to  paj   the    postage  if   he    forth* 

with  return  the  same  unopened ;  but  if 
he  open  the  same,  he  shall  be  bound  to  pay  the  posti^ 
*  due  thereon.    If    he  forthwith   return  the  same    unopened, 

the  sender  of  the  letter  or  packet  shall  be  bound  to  pay 
the  postage  thereof.  If  any  person  shall  refuse  to  pay 
any  postage  which  he  is  legally  bound  to  pay  for  any  let- 
ter or  other  article,  the  same  may  be  recovered  for  the 
use  of  the  East  India  Company  by  any  Post  Master  Ge- 
neral, or  by  any  Officer  in  charge  of  a  Post  Office,  by 
order  of  a  Post  Master  General  in  the  same  manner  as  a 
fine  may  be  recovered  under  this  Act;'  and  it  shall  be 
lawful  for  the  Offlceir  in  charge  of  any  Post  Office  to 
withhold  from  the  person  so  refusing,  until  sueh  postage 
be  paid,  any  other  letter  or  packet  addressed  to  that  per- 
son, not  being  superscribed  as  on  the  public  service.  Pro- 
vided always,  that  if  a  letter  or  other  article  shall  appear 
to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Post  Master  of  the  Office  of 
delivery  to  have  been  ttaliciottsly  sent  for  the  purpose  of 
annoying  the  person  to  whom  it  is  addressed,  the  Post 
Master  of    the    Delivery   Office  may  remit  the  postage. 

XXXVIII.    Any  person  posting  a  letter  ^^^ther  article 
sliaQ  be  entitled  to  require  that  it  shall 
Begutend  idttere.       be  registered  at  the  Beceiving  Post  Of- 
fice»  and  that  a  receipt  shall  be  granted 
for  such  registered  letter  or  article,  and  it  shall  be  lawful 
for  the  Governor    General  in  Council  to    direct^    that,  in 
addition  to   any  rates   of  postage    payable    under  this  Act, 
a  fee  not   exceeding  four    annas  shall  be  charged    on  any 
letter  or  other    article  which   the    sender  thereof   shall  re- 
quire to  be  so  registered,   and   such    registration   fee  shall 
be  paid  on  the  letter   or  other    article  being    delivered  at 
the   Post  Office. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APPENDIX.  <)65 

XXXIX.    It  shall  be   lawful    for  the    Governor   General 
of    India    in   Council  to  fix    and    order 
Sxprenes.  any  rate  of    postage  to  be    charged  for 

the  conveyance  of  letters  or  other  articles 
by  express^  in  addition  to  or  instead  of  any  other  rates 
-of  poati^  chargeable  on  such  letters  and  articles  under 
this  Act. 

XL.    When  any   vessel  arrives  by  sea  at  any  place  with- 
in  the  territories  under  the  Government 
wartbTun^dTessS^cSl    of    the    East    India   Company  at    which 
rymg  mails,  how  to  pro-    i-^ere  is   a    Post  Office,  the    Commander 
of  such  vessel,  shall  speedily  as  possible^ 
•cause   every    letter    and    packet  on    board  of    such   vessel, 
which  is   directed  to  that  place,  not   excepted  from  the  ex- 
clusive privilege  -of  the   Post   Office,  to   be   delivered  either 
at  the   Post   Office,   or   to  some   Officer  of  the  Post  Office 
authorized  to   receive  the  same;    and  if  there  be  on  board 
any  letter  or  packet   directed  to  any   other  place,  ^nd  not 
excepted    from    the   exclusive    privilege   aforesaid,    the   said 
Oommander   shall,  as  speedily  as  possible,  report   the  same 
to  the  Post  Master  of  the  place  at  which  he  has  arrived, 
and  shall  act  according  to  the  directions  he   may  receive  from 
such    Post    Master,  and  the  receipt  of    sucli  Post  Master 
ahall   discharge  such  Commander  from  all    responsibility  in 
respect  of  such   letter   or  packet.    Ewry 
PenaitieB.  Commander   of  a  vessel,   who    shall  wil- 

fully disobey  any  of  the  directions  con- 
tained in  this  Section,  shall  be  punished  with  a  fine  not 
-exceeding  one  thousand  rupees. 

XLI.  Every  person,  being  either  the  Commander  of  a 
vessel  inward  bound,  or  any  one  on  board 
on%'VhibU«L"  such  vessel,  ^vho  shall  within  the  said 
territories,  knowingly  have  in  his  posses- 
sion any  letter  not  excepted  from  the  privilege  of  the  Post 
Office,  after  any  part  of  the  letters  on  board  the  said 
vessel,  shaU  have  been  sent  to  the  Post  Office,   shall  for- 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


60C  APPENDIX. 

feit  for  every  such  letter  a  sam  not  exceeding  fifty  mpecB, 
whether  the  letter  be  in  the  baggage  or  on  the  person 
of  the  ofiTeuder  or  otherwise  in  his  custody;  and  every 
such  person  who  shall  detain  any  such  letter  after  demand 
made  for  the  same  by  an  Officer  of  the  Post  Office  shall 
forfeit  for  every  such  letter  a  sum  not  exceeding  one  hun- 
dred rupees, 

XLIL  For  every  letter  delivered  by  the  Commander  of 
any   ship   in   conformity    with   the  direc- 

Bonnty  Money.  tions   of    Section  XL.   of   this   Act,  the 

Officer  in  charge  of  the  Post  Office  shall 
pay  to  the  said  Commander  the  sum  of  one  anna;  and 
the  sum  of  one  anna  shall  be  chargeable  as  postage  on 
such  letter  in  addition  to  any  other  postage  chargeable 
thereon  under  this  Act.  Provided  that  no  payment  shall 
be  made  to  the  Commander  of  any  vessel  on  account  of 
the  delivery  of  any  letter,  unless  the  claim  of  such  Com- 
mander shall  be  preferred  before  the  vessel  leaves  the  place 
at  which  the  letter  was  delivered,  or  before  the  expira- 
tion of  two  months  from  the  date  of  the  arrival  of  such 
vessel.  Provided  also,  that  nothing  contained  in  Sections 
XL.  XLL  and  XLII.  of  this  Act  shall'  extend  to  any  let- 
ter  or   packet  conveyed   by   Her  Majesty's  Mails. 

XLIII.    The    Commander     of  every    vessel    leaving   any 

place  in  the  said  territories   by  sea  shall 

Commanders  of  out-    receive   ou    board  of    such    vessel   every 

ward  Doiind  vessels  to  re-  ' 

ccive  mails  oil  board.  letter  and  packet  which  he  shall  be  re- 
quired so  to  receive  by  any  Officer  of 
the  Post  Office,  and  shall  give  a  receipt  for  such  letter  or 
packet;  and  every  Commander  of  vessel  who  shall  wilfully 
disobey  any  direction  contained  in  this  Section  shall  be 
punished   with  a  fine  not  exceeding  one  thousand  rupees. 

XLIV.  CluMe  1. — A.  list   of  all  letters^  packets  and  par- 
cels  addressed   to  persons    who    cannot  be 
^^Unclauned  ktters,    f^^^^j^    gj^all    be   prepared    daily  at    every 

Post  Office  and  exposed  for  not  less  than 


Digitized  by 


5y  Google 


APPENDIX.  667 

two  weeks  in  the  most  conspicuous  part  of  such  Office; 
and  all  such  letters^  packets  and  parcels,  which  shall  have 
remained  three  weeks  unclaimed  in   any  Office   shall,   if  the  > 

aender^s  name  and  address  are  written  on  the  cover,  be 
returned  to  the  Posting  Office  to  be  delivered  to  the  sen- 
der free  of  all  charge :  all  letter^,  packets,  and  parcels,  of 
which  the  sender's,  name  cannot  be  ascertained,  unless 
they  be  opened,  shall,  after  remaining  unclaimed  for  three 
weeks  as  above,  be  forwarded  to  the  Office  of  the  Post 
Master   General  of  the   Presidency. 

Clatue  2. — ^The    Post    Master    General,  or  some   person 
duly  appointed  for   the  purpose  and  bound 
To  be  opened,  &c.     to  secrecy,  shaU  immediately   open  all  such 
letters,  packets,   or  parcels,  and  if  the  ad- 
dress  of  the   sender  can  be   discovered,  shall  enclose  them 
in    dead  fetter    covers    and    return    them    to  the  sender. 
All  letters,  packets,   and  parcels,  of  which  neither  the  per- 
son  addressed    nor    the   sender  can    be  found,    shall,  after 
they  have  remained   unclaimed  in  the    Office  of  the    Post 
Master  General  for  one  year,   be  destroyed. 

Clatue  8. — ^AU  money  found  in  any  unclaimed  letter, 
packet,  or  parcel  shall  be  paid  into  the 
thJST'***'^'^*  P«Wic  Treasury,  and  all  other  valuable 
property  found  as  above  shall  be  sold  by 
the  Post  Master  General  of  the  Presidency,  or  by  some 
one  duly  authorized  by  him  for  that  purpose,  and  the  pro- 
ceeds of  the  sale  shall  be  paid  into  the  Public  Treasury 
for  the  benefit  of  any  person  who  may  have  a  right  thereto, 
after  deducting  all  sums  due  from  such  person  for  pos- 
tage. 

XLY;  Letters,  parcels,  or  packets  rejected  unopened  by 

the    person    to    whom    they  are  addressed 

^Beftied    Utten.    ^jj^u    j,^    forthwith  sent    to  the    Office  of 

the  Post  Master  General  of  the  Presidency, 

who  shall  open    the   letter,    parcel,    or    packet,    and  take 

measures  to  recover  the  postage  from  the  sender,  or  shall 


Digitized  by 


Google 


6GS  APPENDIX. 

at  his  discretion  destroy  the  letter^  parcel,  or  packet,  mi 
all  money,  or  other  valuable  property,  which  each  letter, 
parcel,  or  packet  may  contain  shall  be  disposed  in 
the  manner  prescribed  in  the  preceding  Section,  with  res- 
pect to  such  money  or  property  contained  in  unclaimed 
letters. 

XLYI.  On  and  after  the   passing  of  this   Act>  the   pri- 
vilege  of    sending  and    receiving    letters 
Franking  abolished.       and  packets  by  the  post,  free  of  postage, 
whether  official  or  otherwise,  shall  wholly 
cease;    and    all    letters    and    packets    to    which   any  such 
privilege  now    extends,    shall   henceforth  be    charged   with 
the   same    rates    of    postage    as   any  other  letters  sent  by 
the  post.    Provided  that  letters  and  pack- 
lic  8e^ce°duiV*certi-    ^^s   on   the   public  scrvicc,  certified  to  be 
ftBdM^8uch,how.tabe    5^^.]^    j^y    ^j^^    signature    of    any    public 

Officer,  authorized  in  that  behalf,  by 
the  Governor  General  of  India  in  Council,  shall  be  for- 
warded by  the  post  as  if  they  were  duly  stamped,  and  the 
postage  due  thereon  shall  be  charged  to  the  several  Pub- 
lic Departments,  from  which  such  letters  or  packets  are 
sent,  in  such  manner  as  the  said  Governor  General  of  la* 
dia  in  Council  shall  direct. 

XLVII.  Every  person  who  shall,  for  the  purpose  of 
defrauding  the  Post  Office  Bevenue,  wil- 
fifi^aS!^*^  ^''^'^'*'"  ^^J  certify,  by  writing,  on  any  official 
or  other  letter  or  packet,  delivered  at 
any  Post  Office^  for  conveyance  by  post,  that  which  is 
not  true  in  respect  of  such  letter  or  packet,  or  in  respect 
of  the  whole  of  its  contents,  or  shall  knowingly  send,  or 
deliver,  or  attempt  to  send  or  deliv^,  for  conveyance  by 
post,  any  letter  or  packet  with  any  such  false  certificate 
thereon;  and  every  person  who  shall  knowingly  send,  or 
permit  to  be  sent  by  post,  under  colour  or  pretence  of  an 
official  communication,  any  letter,  paper,  writing,  or  other 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APPENDIX.  069* 

endosiure  of  a  private  nature;  and  every  person  who  shall 
aid,  abet,  or  conceal  any  of  the  offences  in  this  Section 
above  mentioned  shall,  for  every  such  offence,  forfeit  a 
sum  not  exceeding  five  hundred  rupees. 


XLVIII.    If  any  Officer  in  charge  of  a  Post  Offi:ce  shatt 

suspect  that  any  letter,  parcel,  or  packet,. 

Letters,  &c.  suspected    lying  for   delivery  at  his  Office,   contains 

to   contain   ccatniband       -^     »  .  . 

articles^  or  writing  in    any  Contraband   article,  or  any   article  on 

contravention    of    this         «  .  i       n    .       •  ^ 

Act,howtobedeaitwith.  which  duty  IS  owmg  to  Qoverojuent,  or 
that  any  letter,  parcel,  or  packet  lying 
for  delivery  at  the  Post  Office,  contains  any  writing  or 
enclosure  in  contravention  of  the  provisions  of  Sections 
VIIL,  XV.,  XVL,  or  XLVII^  of  this  Act,  it  shall  be 
lawful  for  such  Officer  to  summon  the  person  to  whom 
the  letter,  parcel,  or  packet,  is  directed,  to  attend  at  the 
Post  Office,  by  himself  or  Agent,  within  forty -eight  hours 
after  the  arrival  thereof  at  that  Post  Office,  and  to  open 
the  same  in  the  presence  of  the  person  to.  whom  it  is 
directed,  or  of  that  person's  Agent,  and  if  that  person 
shall  not  so  attend  by  himself  or  Agent,  then  to  open 
in  the  absence  of  that  person.  Provided  that  if  the  Officer 
in  charge  be  under  the  rank  of  a  Post  Master,  he  shall 
call  in  two  respectable  persons  as  witnesses  before  he  shall 
open  a  letter,  parcel,  or  packet  in  the  absence  of  the  per- 
son to  whom  it  is  addressed.  Provided  also,  that  in  all 
cases  the  opened  letter,  parcel^  or  packet  shall  be  subse- 
quently delivered  to  the  person  to  whom  it  is  addressed, 
unless  it  be  required  for  ulterior  proceedings,  and  that  the 
opening  of  the  same  and  the  circumstances  connected  there-^ 
with  shall  be  immediately  reported  to  the  Post  Master 
Oeneral.  It  shall  also  be  lawful  for  any  Officer  in  charge 
of  a  Post  Offioe  to  refuse  to  forward  any  parcel  or  packet 
through  the  Post  Office  by  Sea  to  any  foreign  port  or  to 
any  place  not  on  the  Continent  of  India,  unless  such 
parcel  be  accompanied  by  a  Custom  House  Fass^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


670  APPENDIX. 

XLIX.  The  Government  shall  not  be  responsible  for 
any  loss  or  damage  which  may  occur  ia 
poSbfe™for"ior*  "*"  respect  of  anything  entrusted  to  the  Post 
Office  for  conveyance^  and  no  person 
employed  by  the  Government  in  the  Post  Office  Depart- 
ment shall  be  responsible  for  any  such  loss  or  damage  un- 
less that  person  shall  cause  such  loss  or  damage  negli- 
gently^  maliciously,  or  fraudulently. 

L.     Whoever    being  in  the    employ   of    the  Government 

in  the  Post  Office  Department  shall  fraud* 

Penalty  for  •ecreting,    ulentlv   sccrcte,     make  awav   with,  or  ap- 

owning,  or  making  away  .  ^  '  * 

with  letters,  &c.  by  per-  propnate  any  letter,  parcel,  or  packet 
Port  Office?^  "*  *  which  may  have  been  entrusted  to  him, 
or  anything  contained  in  any  such  letter^ 
parcel,  or  packet,  or  shall  mutilate  or  break  open  any  such 
letter,  parcel  or  packet,  or  any  banghy  parcel  or  box, 
with-  the  intention  of  fraudulently  appropriating  anything 
therein  contained,  shall  be  punished  with  imprisonment, 
with  or  without  hard  labour,  for  a  term  not  exceeding 
seven   years,   and  shall  also  be  liable   to  a   fine. 

Provided  that  nothing  herein  contained  shall  extend  to 
the  opening  of  a  letter  or  packet  returned  for  want  of  a 
true  direction,  or  because  the  person  ta  whom  the  same 
shall  be  directed,  cannot  be  found,  or  refuses  or  neglects 
to  pay  the  postage  thereof,  or  to  the  opening  of  a  letter 
or  packet  suspected  to  contain  any  contraband  article,  or 
any  writing  in  contravention  of  the  provisions  of  this  Act, 
or  to  the  opening  of  a  letter  or  packet  directed  to  any 
place  not  in  the  territories  under  the  Government  of  the 
East  India  Company  on  which  the  proper  amount  of  post- 
age shall  not  have  been  paid. 

LI.  It  shall  not  be  lawful  for  any  person,  unless  act- 
ing by  express  order  of  the  Government, 

^^^ty  for  datoiniiig  ^o  detain,  except  for  a  criminal  offence, 
a    Post  Office  messenger  whilst   carrying 

the  mails,  or  to  detain  any  carriage,  or  horse  upon  which 


Digitized  by 


Google 


*«? 


APPENDIX.  671 

the  mails  are  being  carriedy  or  on  any  pretence  to  open 
a  packet  in  transit  from  one  Post  Office  to  another^  and 
every  person  who  shall  be  guilty  of  any  of  the  above* 
mentioned  ofiences  shall  be  punished  with  a  fine  not  ex- 
ceeding  five   hundred  rupees. 

LII.    Every  person  who  shall  fraudulently  retain,  or  wil- 
fully   secrete,     or   make    away    with,   or 
PcB»i^  for  re^M    j^^gp  ^j.   detain,    or,    being    required   to 
mistake.  *  deliver  up   by  an  Officer  of  the  Post  Of- 

fice, shall  neglect  or  refuse  to  deliver 
up  a  post  letter  or  other  article  which  ought  to  have  been 
delivered  to  any  other  pei'sou,  or  a  post  letter  bag  con- 
taining a  letter  or  other  article  or  packet  which  shall  have 
been  sent  by  the  post,  shall  be  punished,  on  conviction,  be- 
fore a  Magistrate,  with  imprisonment,  with  or  without  hard 
labor,  for  a  term  not  exceeding  two  years,  and  shall  also 
be  liable   to  a  fine» 

LIII.   Every  person  employed  to  convey  or   deliver  any 
post  bag,   or  any  letter,  parcel  or  pack- 
Penalty  for  neglect  on    et    sent    by    post,    who  shall  be  guilty 

the  part  of  persona  em-         ...  ii-  *-i, 

ployed  to  carry  mails.  while  SO  employed  of  any  act  of  drunken- 
ness, carelessness  or  other  misconduct^ 
whereby  the  safety  of  any  such  bag  or  letter,  parcel  or 
packet,  shall  be  endangered;  or  who  shall  loiter  or  make 
delay  in  the  conveyance  or  delivery  of  any  such  bag, 
letter,  parcel  or  packet;  or  who  shall  not  use  proper 
care  and  diligence  safely  to  convey  or  deliver  any  such 
bag,  letter,  parcel,  or  packet,  shall  be  liable  to  a  fine 
not  exceeding  fifty  rupees;  and  any  person  employed  to 
deliver  a  letter,  parcel,  or  packet  sent  by  the  post,  who 
shall  not  duly  deliver  the  same,  shall,  within  a  reason- 
able time,  not  exceeding  twenty-four  hours,  report  the  fact 
at  the  Post  Office  where  he  received  such  letter,  parcel, 
or  packet,  and  return  the  same;  and  if  any  such  person 
shall  wilfully  make  a  false  report  he  shall  be  liable  to  a 
fine  not  exceeding  fifty  Rupees. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


672  APPBN0IX. 

LIV.  Whoever  being  in  the  employ  of  tiie  Oovera'- 
ment  in  the  Post  Office  Department, 
riemenf '  j^"  ^^l  and  being  entrusted  to  receive  money 
gg,bycd  in  the  Post  f^^  postage  dutv  or  -any  other  public 
purpose,  shall  fraudulently  impropriate 
the  same,  shall  be  punished^  on  conviction  before  a  Ma- 
gistrate, with  imprisonment,  with  or  without  hard  labour, 
for  a  term  not  exceeding  two  years,  and  shidl  aiao  be 
liable  to  a  fine. 


LV.  "Whoever    being    in    such    employ    as    is  described 

in   Section    LIV.  shall    fraudulently    put 

Penalty  for   fraudu-    any  wrous   mark  ou    any  letter,   parcel, 

leatly     altering     marks  ^  ^^  11,-11 

on    letters,    &c.,  V    or    pacKct,    Or    shall    fraudulently   alter, 

ipersons     employed     in  ,        ,.  _^  , 

the  Post  Office.  removc,  or  cause  to  disappear,   ai^y  mark 

or  stamp  which  is  on  any  letter  or  pack- 
et, or  shall  fraudulently  use  or  place  with  or  upon  any 
letter  or  packet  any  stamp  which  shall  have  been  re- 
moved Irom  any  other  letter  or  cover,  or  shall  aid^  abet, 
or  conceal  any  of  the  above  named  acts,  shall  be  punish* 
ed,  on  conviction  before  a  Magistrate,  with  imprisonment, 
with  or  without  hard  labour,  for  a  term  not  exceeding 
•two  years,  and   shall  also  be  liable  to  fine« 


LVI.  Whoever  being  in  such  employ  as  is  ^escaibed 
in  Section  LIY.,  and  being  entrusted 
rcctfy  propaiSg  'dwi-  ^ith  the  preparing  or  keeping  of  any 
TuSenuSyT-^S  document,  shall,  with  a  fraudulent  in- 
e^^jioyed  in  the  Post  teniiou,  prepare  that  document  incorrect- 
ly, or  alter  that  document,  or  shall 
aid|  abet,  or  conceal  any  of  the  above  named  acts,  or  se- 
crete, or  destroy  that  document,  shall  be  punished^  on 
conviction  before  a  Magistrate,  with  imprisonment,  vrith 
or  without  hard  labour,  for  a  term  not  exceeding  two 
years,  and  shall  also  be  liable  to   fine. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


v 


AipPENDnu  673 

LVII.  Whoever    being  in  sach    employ  as  is    described 
in  Section  LIY.,  shall  send  by  the  post^ 

lettert*^ wit/out  "ch*"*    °'  ^^^  ^^  ^^^  P^®^  ^^'  ^^^   unstamp- 
ing  postaro,   by  per-    ed  letter,  parcel,  or  packet,   upon   which 

aons     employed    as**  ^  ,,  .*  -,  ^    -        , 

bove.  postage  has  been  paid* or  charged  in  the 

manner  prescribed  in  this  Act,  intend- 
ing thereby  to  defraud  the  Government  of  the  postage 
on  such  letter,  parcel,  or  packet,  or  shall  aid,  abet,  or 
conceal  any  such  acts,  shall  be  punished,  on  conviction 
before  a  Magistrate,  with  imprisonment,  with  or  without 
hard  labour,  for  a  term  not  exceeding  two  years,  and 
shall   also   be  liable   to  fine. 


LVin.  Any  person,  whether  a  European  British  sub- 
ject or  not,  who  shall  be  guilty  of  any 
cov^^.  ^''''  ^^"^  ofTence  for  which,  according  to  the  pro- 
visions of  this  Act,  he  shall  be  liable 
to  a  fine  only,  shall  be  punishable,  .  for  such  offence,  by 
any  justice  of  the  Peace  for  any  of  the  Presidency  Towns 
of  Calcutta,  Madras  and  Bombay,  Magistrate,  Joint  Magis- 
trate, or  person  lawfully  exerdsing  the  powers  of  Magis- 
trate; and  any  person  hereby  made  punishable  by  a  Justice 
of   the  Peace  shsdl  be  punishable  upon  summary  conviction. 


LIX.    No  conviction,  order,  or  judgment  of  any  justice 
,      of  the  Peace  shall  be  quashed  for  error 

Conviction  to  be  cnuuh-  ■•  i  i 

ed  on  meriu  only.  Torm    of  form  or    procedure,  but  ouly  on  the 
conviction,  merits,  and  it  shall  not  be  necessary  to 

state  on  the  face  of  the  conviction,  order  or  judgment, 
the  evidence  oil  which  it  proceeds,  but  the 'depositions  tak- 
en, or  a  copy  of  them,  shall  be  returned  with  the  con- 
viction, order,  or  judgment,  in  obedience  to  any  writ  of 
certiorari,  and  if  no  jurisdiction  appears  on  the  face  of  the 
conviction,  order,  or'  judgment,  but  the  depositions  taken 
supply  that  defect,  the  conviction,  order,  or  judgment  shall 
be  aided  by  what  so  appears  in  such  depositions. 

N  3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


674  tfPBKDIX. 

liX.  A  Magistrate  may  refer  for  trial  and  deciaioii  mj 
chai^  of  an  offence  hereby  made  punish- 
dJSftt'S2i.;S  »We  by  fine  only  to  any  of  his  Amis- 
tauts,  or  to  any  Depnty  Magistrate  law- 
fully appointed  to  exercise  the  powers  of  a  Covenanted  As- 
sistant^ and  in  such  case  every  such  Assistant  or  Deputy 
Magistrate,  may  exercise  all  the  powers  vested  in  a  Magis- 
trate, subject  to  all  the  rules  applicable  to  criminal  cases 
deputed  to  such  Assistants  or  Magistrates  acting  judicially. 

LXL  The  local  Government  may  give  general  authority 
to  any  such  Assistant  or  Deputy  Magis- 
thSSTAJSrtaSf^  ^  ^^^  to  exercise,  without  reference  by  a 
^^^"^^  Magistrate,  any  of  the  powers  which  they 
are  hereby  rendered  competent  to  exer- 
cise, upon  reference  by  a  Magistrate,  subject  to  appeal  to 
the  Magistrate  from  any  conviction  by  such  Assistant  or 
Deputy  Magistrate,  within  <Hie  month  from  the  date  of  the 
conviction.  Provided  that  a  Magistrate  may  at  any  time 
call  from  any  of  his  Assistanta,  or  from  any  Deputy  Ma- 
gistrate subordinate  to  him,  any  case  pending  before  such 
Assistant  or  Deputy  Magistrate. 

LXn.    All  fines  imposed  under  the  authority  of  this  A^t, 
FuiMh     iinruid  ^^^  offcnccs  punishaMc  by  fine  only,  by 

any  Justice  of  the  Peace,  Magistrate,  Joint 
Magistrate,  or  person  lawfully  exercising  the  powers  of  a 
Magistrate,  or  by  any  Assistant  to  a  Magistrate  or  Depu- 
ty Magistrate,  may,  in  ease  of  non-payment  thereof,  be 
levied  by  distress  and  sale  of  the  goods  and  chattels  of 
the  offender,  by  Warrant  under  the  hand  of  any  of  the 
above-named  Q£Scers,  and  in  case  any  such  fine  shall  not 
be  forthwith  paid,  any  such  Officer  may  order  the  offender 
to  be  apprehended  and  detained  in  safe  custody  until  the 
return  can  be  conveniently  made  to  such  warrant  of  dis-  ' 
tress,  unless  such  party  shall  give  security  to  the  satisfac- 
tion of  such  Officer  for  his  appearance  at  such  place  and 
time  as  shall  be    appointed  for  the  return  of   the  warrant 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APFSNDIX.  675 

of  distress^  and  sach  Officer  may  take  aueh  security  by 
way  of  recognizance  or  otherwise;  and  if  upon  the  return 
of  snch  warrant,  it  shall  appear  that  no  sufficient  distress 
can  be  had  whereon  to  levy  such  fine,  and  the  same  shall 
not  be  forthwith  paid,  or  in  case  it  shall 
inpriaonmcait  if  no  appear  to  the  Satisfaction  of  such  Offi- 
tiifficiont  diBtiesf,  Ac.       ^^^  ^^  ^^ie  confession  of    the    party  or 

otherwise,  that  he  has  not  sufficient  goods 
and  chattels  whereupon  such  fine  or  sum  of  money  •  could 
be  levied  if  a  warrant  of  distress  were  issued,  any  such  Offi- 
cer,  by  warrant  under  his  hand,  may  commit  the  offender 
to  prison,  there  to  be  imprisoned  only,  or  to  be  imprison- 
ed and  kept  to  hard  labour,  according  to  the  discretion  of 
such  Officer,  for  any  term  not  exceeding  two  calendar  months, 
where  the  amount  of  the  fine  shall  not  exceed  fifty  rupees, 
and  for  any  term  not  exceeding  four  calendar  months  where 
the  amount  shall  not  exceed  one  hundred  rupees,  and  for 
any  term  not  exceeding  six  calendar  months  in  any  other 
case:  the  commitment  to  be  determinable  in  each  of  the 
cases  aforesaid  on  payment  of  the  amount. 

LXIIL    A  share  not  exceeding  one  moiety  of  every  fine 
Hoidy  of  fines  to    imposed  and    recovered    under    this  Act 
informer.  ^^^^  y^^  awarded  to  the  informer. 

LXIY.  No  proceedings  shall  be  taken  for  the  recovery 
of    any  such   fine    without  an    order  of 

iZl^^^JS^.  Govemmenl^  or  an  order  in  writing  of 
the  Director  General  of  the  Post  Office, 

or  of  a  Post  Master  General. 

LXV.  If  any  servant  of  the  East  India  Company,  who 
shall  be  employed  by  tiie  said  Gompa- 
dia^  cJSlJany  ^iL^  oj  in  the  Post  Office  Department,  or 
S^.teS:^aman^"  ^^U  »>e  appointed  a  vendor  of  postage 
stamps,  or  entrusted  by  the  said  Com- 
pany or  any  of  the  said  bcal  Gbvernments  with  the  sale 
of  postage  stamps  within  the  dominions  of  any  foreign 
Prince    or  state  in    alliance    with    the  said  Company,   in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


676  APPENDIX. 

vfhich  a  post  shall  be  established  by  the  said  Company, 
shall,  within  the  dominions  of  such  Prince  or  State,  com- 
mit any  act  hereby  prohibited,  or  omit  to  do  any  act 
hereby  required  to  be  done,  by  any  person  similarly  em- 
ployed, appointed,  or  entnisted  as  aforesaid  within  the 
territories  under  the  Government  of  the  said  Company, 
such  servant  of  the  said  Company  shall  be  guilty  of  an 
offence,  and,  on  conviction  thereof,  shall  be  punished  in 
the  same  manner  as  if  such  act  had  been  done  or  omitted 
within  the  said  last-mentioned  territories,  and  every  such 
person  may  be  tried,  convicted,  and  punished,  either  by 
fine  ot  otherwise,  according  to  the  nature  of  the  offence, 
by  any  Court  or  Officer  duly  empowered  by  the  Governor 
General  of  India  in  Council  to  take  cognizance  of  of- 
fences committed  in  such  dominions  by  servants  of  the 
East  India  Company,  or  by  any  Court  or  Magistrate,  or 
other  competent  Officer,  in  any  part  of  the  territories  with- 
in the  Government  of  the  East  India  Company,  in  the 
same  manner  as  if  the  offence  had  been  committed  in 
such  part  of   the  said     territories. 

LXVI.  The   word   "Magistrate''  in  this  Act  shall  include 
Joint  Magistrates,    and    persons  lawfully 

Interpretation.  •  .      °    ,  b      -^r     -        r 

exercismg  the  powers  of  Magistrates, 
and  the  word  ''fine''  shall  include  a  penalty  or  forfeit- 
ture;  or  a  sum  of  money  due  upon  a  forfeited  recogni- 
zance. 

LXVII.   It  shall  be  lawful  for  the  Governor  General  of 
India  in  Council  to  frame  Rules  for  the 

Governor  Genend  in  ,      .       *      ^i.        -n     ^     ^m  j.    • 

Council    may     frame    conduct  of    the    Jrost   Omce   uot  mcon- 

^^"^  sistent    with   this    Act,    and  therein    to 

prescribe  the  regulations,    conditions,    and    restrictions    ac- 

cording    to    which    all    letters  and  other  articles   shall  be 

posted,  forwarded,  conveyed  and  delivered. 

LXVIII.  Unless  the  Governor  General  of  India  in  Conn- 

dl    shall     otherwise  order,     nothing     in 

post   to  or  'frJfm  the    this  Act    shall  authorize  the    charge    of 
fcuited  Kingdom,  ^^^^^  ^^^   ^^^  ^^^^^    magazines. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APPENDIX.  677 

reviews,  or  pamphlets  (whether  British,  Colonial,  or  Foreign^) 
sent  through  the  post  from  the  United  Kingdom  to  any 
place  to  which  there  shall  be  Sk  post  established  bj  the 
East  India  Company,  or  from  such  place  to  the  Unit- 
ed Kingdom,  provided  the  British  postage  chargeable  there- 
on be  pre-paid. 

LXIX.  It  shall  be    lawful  for  the  Governor  General   of 

India  in  Council,  by  an  order  in  Coun- 

Governor  General  ia    cil,  to   direct  that  postage  shall  not    be 

Cotmcil     nuw     exempt  -i        .1  .      * 

from  postage  letters  sent    chargeable  Under  this  Act  on   any  letters 

to  or  from  the  United  .,  .•  1        ^      1  •«    1     •  1 

Kingdom.  or  Other  articles  to  be   specified   in  such 

order  sent  through  the  post  from  any 
part  of  the  British  Dominions  to  any  place  to  which  there 
shall  be  a  post  established  by  th&  East  India  Companyj 
or  from  such  place  to  any  part  of  the  British  Dominions, 
subject  to  such  conditions,  as  to  the  pre-payment  of  Bri- 
tish postage  or  otherwise,  as  the  Governor  General  of 
India  in  Council  may  think  fit. 

LXX.  It    shall  be  lawful  for  the    Governor  General   of 
_.    .    ,    ,  Indi^  in  Council  to  frame  Bules  for  the 

District  dnwks. 

management  of  all  or  any  Zemindaree, 
Thannah,  or  other  district  dawks,  and  to  declare,  from 
time  to  time,  what  portions  of  this  Act  shall  be  applica- 
ble to  such  dawks  and  to  persons  employed  in  connexion 
therewith. 

LXXI.  This  Act    shall  commence    and    take  effect  from 
^  ,^       and    after    the    first    day     of    October, 

Conuncttcement  of  Act,      .       ^         ^ 

1854. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


I 


0^^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


I 


